GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

THE ODO RE MER IAM
Gran d Mast er Octob er 16, 1964 ~October 15, 1965

THE ODO RE MER IAM
Gran d Maste r

O ctoht> r I() I Qf\4 _

()rt,...h .. ~ 1 ~ i Ot::t:'

Gran d Lodge
Theod ore Meriam, Ninet y-Nin th Gran d Maste r of the
Engla nd
New
strong
of
of California, is a native Califo rnian but
of
nally,
mater
and
ally
patern
backg round . He is a desce ndant , both
was
He
1650.
and
1638
in
etts
achus
ances tors who settle d in Mass
has lived in that
born in Chico, Califo rnia, April 18, 1910, and he
His father was
e.
community ever since, excep t while away at colleg
ge (originally
Colle
State
Morrison E. Meriam, a professor at Chico
mothe r was
His
1934.
to
1902
the State Norm al School at Chico ) from
r in Masteache
l
schoo
high
a
been
had
Annie Lund Meria m who
age.
marri
her
to
prior
shire
sachu setts and New Hamp
his first two
He attend ed the public schools in Chico and spent
he entere d
1929,
er,
Octob
In
e.
Colleg
years of college at Chico State
mics from
Econo
in
e
degre
A.B.
his
ed
receiv
and
Stanf ord Unive rsity
of 1931
fall
the
Stanf ord in June, 1931. He return ed to Stanf ord in
he
1932,
ry.
Janua
in
but
to enter the Gradu ate School of Business,
tment
depar
n's
wome
(a
any
Comp
entere d the employ of M. Oser and
mana ger. He
store established in Chico in 1878) as its advertising
er in, and gener al
has been with this firm ever since, and is now a partn
n Savin gs and
Lasse
mana ger of the store. He is also associated with the
or of this
direct
and
ent
Loan Association of Chico, being a vice presid
1953.
in
ish
association which he helpe d establ
a native of
On April 7, ·t 934, he married Opal Melin e who is also
Lever enz).
B.
Carl
(Mrs.
eth
Chico. They have three children, Elizab
Thomas Lund and Charl es Meline.
in Califo rnia ,
He has been active in municipal affairs in Chico and
from 1947 to
Chico
of
City
the
having served on the City Council of
He was
1959.
to
1949
from
Chico
1959 and as Mayo r of the City of
he was
1958
In
1957.
in
Cities
rnia
Califo
Presid ent of the League of
angiven
now
d,
Awar
les
Ange
Los
of
City
the
the first recipi ent of
public
d
electe
an
nually throu gh the League of California Cities to
in city govern~
official who has demo nstrat ed outsta nding leadership
ment in this State.
since 1942
He has been a member of the Rotar y Club of Chico
Chest,
unity
Comm
erce,
and has been active in Cham ber of Comm
ns.
izatio
organ
local
r
Boy Scout Council, and simila
ory Board
From 1950 to 1960 he was chairm an of the local Advis nted by
appoi
was
he
1960
of
st
Augu
of Chico State Colle ge and in
formed Board
Gove rnor Edmu nd G. Brow n as a member of the newly
he was reap~
of Trust ees of the Califo rnia State Colleges. In 1963
for an eight
n
Brow
pointed to the State Colle ge Board by Gove rnor

2

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

year term. In 1959 he was awarded the first Honorary Master's Degree
ever granted by Chico State College.
He was raised in Chico Lodge No. 111 on December 3, 1940. and
served as Master of Chico Lodge in 1946. In 1958 he was appointed
Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge of California by M. W. Phil N .
Myers. He served as a member of the Policy and General Purposes
Committee of the Grand Lodge in 1960 and 1961, and of the Masonic
Information Committee in 1961. It was as a member of this latter committee that he authored the widely d istributed pamphlet "If Freemasonry Is Good Let Us Talk About It.'' He was elected Junior Grand
Warden in September. 1961, Senior Grand Warden in October, 1962.
Deputy Grand Master in October, 1963, and on October 16, 1964, he
was elected Grand Master. He is a member of the York Rite Bodies
in Chico and of the Scottish Rite Bodies in Sacramento, and belongs
to Ben Ali Temple of the Shrine, Sacramento. He is also a member of
St. Francis Conclave of the Red Cross of Constantine, San Francisco.
In addition to membership in Chico Lodge No. l 11, he holds plural
membership in Sincerity Lodge No. 132 at Greenville.
Theodore "Ted" Meriam has been an active Mason and a firm
leader in Grand Lodge affairs. He has been an outspoken advocate of
individual responsibility by all Master Masons for the welfare of
Freemasonry, present and future. He believes in the fundamental
tenets of Masonry, and in the rightness of the entire institution of
Freemasonry. He bas always stressed that Freemasonry is an institution of Quality, of Dignity and of Substance - and to the author of
this biographical sketch he has said, "If, as Grand Master, I added
a bit to the improvement of our quality, to the support of our dignity,
and to the recognition of our substance. then I feel that it has been a
good year."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3

I. EowARD H. SIEMS, Grand Secretary of the M.'.W:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one hundred sixteenth
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the 11th day of October, A. L. 5965, and terminated on Friday,
the· 15th day of October, A .L. 5965.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M. · .W. ·• Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California. at the office of the Grand Secretary, this first day of November,
in the year of Light. five thousand
nine hundred and sixty-five.

Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M:.W:.GRAN D LODGE
of

1J1ree auh l\rrepteh !lasnus
OPTHB
STA TE OF CALIFORNIA
ATITS
116TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELDATTHB
CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY. OCTOBER 11 A.O. 1965. A.L. 5965
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15 A.O. 1965, A.L. 5965
Copyrig ht 1965 by G rend Lodge F. & A. M. of Colifornio
Printed in the Unit4'd St.,tes of Americe. All rights in this book ere r4'sen1ed.
No port thereof m•y be reproduced in any mo nner whatsoever without written
permission from the Grend Lodge of Calilornio, except thot quotat ions mey
be embod ied in revie.,.,. by such other Grend Ju risdict ions os hove been
recognized officially by this G r&nd Lodge. For information oddress Grend
Secretory, 1111 Ca!iforni" Street, Son Francisco, Colifornio 9~108.

5

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One Hundred Sixteenth Annual
Communication in the California Masonic Memorial Temple on O ctober
11. A. L. 5965, at I 0:00 a.m. Grand Lodge was raised by Worshipful
Plez Gwynn, Past Master of Chico Lodge No. 111.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LoDGE
M .·.w.·.THEODORE MERIAM ··················----·-·············--···----Grand Ma ster
R. ·.w.·.MYRON E. SMlTH ......................................Deputy Grand Ma ster
R. · .W. ·.LAURENCE E. DAYTON ............................Senior Grand Warden
R .· .w.·. JoHN F. PoRTER .... -.......... _______________ _.........Junior Grand Warden
v .·.w.·. PAUL A. PFLUEGER........................................ -.Grand Treasurer
v. · .w. ·.EDWARD H. SrnMS ........ _.... -.. --·-----····-····· .. -···----··Grand Secretary
V. ·. W. ·.HAROLD N. RicHARDS.......... _.. _________ .. ____ ......... -.. -.Grand Lecturer

V. ·.R. ·.EDGAR F. MAGNIN ............ ____ .. ____ .. _________ .............Grand Chaplain
W . ·.CLARE B. CAMPBELL................-.........Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.FRANK P . LEMEN ................................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·. WA LU.CE H . FisKE ........... ................. Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. · .ROBERT A. CRlGLER ............... .............Assistant Grand Lecturer
w.·.w. BEN SoRRELLS . ........................... ..Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.BYRON C. MoRTON ............... ____ .............................Grand Orator
W. ·.JACK F. BowLEY.._............................. Assistant Grand Treasurer
W.'.VERNE W. HENDRIX........................A ssistant Grand S ecretary
w .· .BASIL R. GILLEIT............... -............ -..... -.......... _..Grand Marshal
W. · .L. STEWART CRANSTON .......... -------- ----·--·Grand Standard Bearer
W .'.THOMAS W. S. Wu.·---··--·-·---·-·····--·····--·-·Gran d Sword Bearer
GERLICHER ................ -.................Grand Bible Bearer
w.· .M1LTON
W. ' .G. BASIL GORDON, JR .................................Senior Grand Deacon

c.

W. ·.ROBERT S. BERTRAND ................................ Junior Grand Deacon
W . ·.VINCENT C. TISCORNIA ............................Senior Grand Steward
w.- .G. WARREN CLARK. .................................Junior Grand Steward
w.·.R1CHARD D. CROWE........................................ Grand Pursuivant
w.·.HAROLD MuELLER..............................................Grand Organist
W.'.DAVID WRlGHT.......................................................... Grand Tiler

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND OFFICERS

DEVOTIONAL SERVICE
"THE KEYSTONE OF THE ARCH"

PAST GRAND MASTERS
M.'.W.'.L. HAROLD ANDERSON
M.'.W.'.EDWARD H . SIEMS
M.'.W.'.LEO E. ANDERSON
M.'.W.".ELLSWORTH MEYER
M.'.W.'.PHIL N. MYERS
M.'.W.'.Louis C. DRAPEAU
M .'.W.'.JoE L. SHELL
M .'. W.' .FRANK HARWELL, JR.
M:.w:.Guv B. MizE
M.'.W.'.HENRY c. CLAUSEN
M.'.W.' .EDGAR v. STEWART, JR. M.' .W.'.IRA w. COBURN
M.'.W.'.ELMER w. HEALD
PAST GRAND LECTURERS
V.'.W.'.ELBERT W. DAVIS
V.'.W.' .DoNALDG. CAMPBELL
One thousand four hundred eighty two officers and representatives
from 697 chartered Lodges and three Lodges under dispensation, 1171
Past Masters, and 20 distinguished guests from other jurisdictions were
present. The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form,
following which the Flag of our C ountry was received.

APPOINTMENT S
The Grand Master announced the following appointments to fill
committee vacanies:
On Policy and General Purposes-Ellswor th Meyer as Acting
Chairman, Eugene S. Hopp and C. C. Trowbridge.
On Grievances-Varnu m Paul.
The Deputy Grand Master announced the appointment of Niles 0.
Millar as Chairman, Stephen J. Collins and William T . Lisenby, Jr. as
members of the Committee on Distribution .

TELEGRAMS SENT
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send an appropriate telegram to each of the absent Past Grand M asters.

TELEGRAM RECEIVED
The Grand Secretary reported having received a telegram of congratulation from the Grand Guardian Council of California, International Order of Job's Daughters.

GAVELS
The following Lodges, Districts and Association presented gavels
to the Grand Master which w ere used at various sessions during the
Comm unica ti on:
Lodges Nos. 8. 12, 43, 111, 126, 132, 150, 174, 175, 192, 220, 231,
240, 242, 295, 313. 323. 334, 381. 547, 581, 632, 642, 660, 688, 710.
721. 726, 741. 778. 782 and 817.
Districts Nos. 346, 348, 392, 394, 504, 636, 637 and 642.
East Bay Masters and Wardens Association.

9

The Very Reverend Edgar F . Magnin, Gra nd Chaplain

Most Worshipful and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
The first thing I want to say is that I am highly appreciative of the
great honor be~towed upon me _by our Grand Master Theodore Meriam
in having appointed me Chaplain.
I have the very highest respect and regard for him. He is a fine
human being and a dedicated Mason. It has been my pleasure to come
to know him and to serve under him.
My interest in the Masonic fraternity dates back to my childhood.
My maternal grandfather was devoted to our order. An emblem
dangled from his watch chain. It was a gold keystone. At the time I
did not know what it meant. When I grew older and became a member
of the fraternity . .. which was one of the first things I did when I
came to Los Angeles ... I came to learn its significance.
The keystone holds the arch together. The arch of a civilized
society must be held together if we are to prevent anarchy ... chaos .. .
nihilism.
Masonry. based on the Hebrew-Christia n tradition, is an important
factor in preserving our civilization and improving it in order that it
may survive and all men and women live in peace, justice and good
will.
Today we are living in a sick society. Thomas M ann pointed this
out many years ago when he wrote " MAGIC MOUNTAIN."
This novel is symbolic ... allegorical. It depicts a group of invalids
in a sanatorium on top of a high mountain, indulging in theoretical
discussions and debates while the world is going to pot. Each one has
a single point of view and cannot see that of the others. They are
deciding the fate of the world while they themselves are dying . . .
and in the valley below preparations are being made for the First World
War.
Today the world is sicker than it was when Thomas Mann wrote
this book. We have had another world war worse than the first and
are threatened with a third which could destroy millions of lives of
innocent men, women and children and poison the atmosphere of a
large part of the earth for years to come.
Rebellions and revolutions are going on in every corner of the
world.
Violence and riots have taken the place of law and order.

IO

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The tragedy of Watts is a warning of what can happen in any
city . .. anywhere ... any time.
Crime is growing especially among juveniles. The increase of sex
promiscuity among adolescents is shocking.
Avant-ga rde plays and novels depict the worse side of life in the
name of realism.
The feeling of despair .. . hopelessness ... helplessness is rampant
everywhere.
Sanity seems to have flown out the window.
Pornography in books and plays either directly or indirectly. as
well as in popular songs, has become so common that it doesn't shock
people anymore.
The arts have become nihilistic. Abstraction has its place but in
some cases it is ridiculous. It is a rejection of man and the meaning of
life.
Twisted and contorted facial expressions suggest that everybody
and everything are crooked.
Te~n-agers have become hysterical and go into coma over silly
male s~ngers who wear long hair like girls and hop around with a grin
on their faces to the strumming of electric guitars and the banging of
drums.
If Bach and Beethoven came back to earth, they would hardly meet
with such a reception.
This in a day and age of free education!
Frustrated people seek publicity and healing for their shrunken
egoes. They march in picket lines in behalf of every cause good or bad.
Sometimes they lie around in lobbies of hotels and buildings impeding
normal ingress and egress ... all in the name of progress.
Freedom and license are two separate things. There is a difference
between self-expression and individuality on the one hand and impudence and stupidity on the other. Some people have nothing to express
except nonsense. They haven't a single idea in their heads.
Liberalism once a respected term now stands for bread and circuses
... bureaucracy ... pork barrels. On the other side of the fence are
the reactionaries who think they can save democracy by acting like
fascists.
Thus we see that the keystone of the a rch is crumbling. It threatens
to fall and with it the collapse of our best hopes for a government "of
the people, by the people and for the people" under God Almighty.
Much of this malaise which I have described only in part is due
to fuzzy thinking.
As far back as the fifth century, B.C .. Socrates emphasized the
necessity for clear thinking. Unless we know what we are talking about

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

11

and face life realistically. we get nowhere fast . Slovenly thinki ng
encourages confusion and hostility. There are no substitutes for logic
and plain common sense.
We have confused wishful thinking with practicality . . . built up
vague and unrealistic Utopias by enacting silly laws. We have clung
6rmly to a number of fallacies and illusions that are nothing but soap
bubbles.
Among them are the following:
t. We can cure all ills and change human nature by legislation.
2. There are solutions to every problem.
3. The solutions can be achieved quickly and easily.
4. Everybody is entitled to something for nothing.
5. Economics is the key to most problems. A full belly and a big
house and at least one automobile will make everybody happy
and virtuous the rest of his life.
6. Work is evil and the more leisure we have the better off we
will be.
7. Saving is silly. Buy as much as you can whether you can afford
to pay for it or not.
8. Materialism rather than idealism is the source of happiness.
9. Status is important. If you would be somebody. try to impress a
lot of nobodies.
10. Commercial deception is not lying. It is "public relations."
11. Freedom of sex has nothing to do with morality. It is the
individual's privilege to do what he pleases w hatever, wherever
and whenever.
12. Religion is passe. Its day is done. Better substitute modern
superstitions for ancient ones.
13. Educate students to challenge everything whether it is logica l
or not ... to defy every convention irrespective of whether it
is good or bad. This is known as existential education.
14. Accept existentialism as the la test philosophical fad. It teaches
that man amounts to nothing, life has no meaning, so do anything that you want to do to anybody or everybody as long as
you are able to get away with it.
15. Moral responsibility is a fiction. There are no bad people in
the world . .. just those who have erred because they lacked
parental love during infancy.
16. Children should be spoiled.
17. Criminals should be pampered.
Much of this fuzzy thinking is a result of confusing the social
sciences with real science. Physics and chemistry deal with objects • . .

12

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

the social sciences with human nature . No two people
are alike and
no one person the same all the time. This is the fallacy
of many
economic, political. social and psychological theories.
The excuse and alibi for much evil has resulte d from a misint
erpret ation or stretch ing of the theories of Karl Marx and Sigmu
nd Freud.
The second force that is causin g the keysto ne of the
arch to
crumb le is the lack of religious faith and the moral law that
stems out
of it.
I have no time to go into the subjec t of the philosophica
l found ations of religious faith. Suffice to say that many scienti
sts today are
believ ers in the existe nce of God. They are over-a wed
by the extent
and compl exity of the univer se . . . the laws that govern
it . . . the
myste ry of its substa nce.
The origin of life is one of these myste ries.
The thinke rs of today may not believe in God in the old-fa
shione d
theolo gical meani ng of the term. Natur ally. they, along
with liberal
religio nists, have dropp ed the supers titions and dogma s
of yester day
and the day before , but they still recognize that there
must be some
great creativ e Mind . . . a perfec t Intellect that create d
everyt hing.
Who can accou nt for the intellect itself ... for the consci
ence of
man ... for his love of beauty , poetry and goodn ess on
the basis of
materialism?
Who can explai n the motivation of herois m and self-sa
crifice and
the pursui t of justice, love and mercy in this world?
Our minds are finite. God's is infinite. Natur ally. we canno
t descri be
Him in definite terms as Maim onides . the great Hebre w
philos opher.
pointe d out in the Middl e A ges, but we know He exists.
We don't
know it in the same way as we know empirical facts. We
can't exami ne
God on a micros copic slide or see Him throug h a telescope
but we feel
His Presen ce. Intuiti on is as valuab le as logic ... perhap s
more so and
the eye of the soul sees deepe r and farthe r than the physical
eye.
A dog in this room would not know what we are doing
or under stand what we are saying . yet it has a certain amoun t of
intelligence.
An ant or snail would know less. C ompar ed with the
Perfec t Mind
ours is even less than that of an animal compa red with ours
.•. and yet
we know things we canno t explai n. The heart unders tands.
This loss of faith in God and the moral law is positively dange
rous.
It can result in nihilism and a war that will destro y man
off the face
of this earth. We are like a ship in a storm y sea withou
t a rudde r or
compa ss. We had better wake up before it is too late if we
are to turn
this sick world into a health y one.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

13

We religionists and educa tors have a big job facing us. We
of the
Mason ic fratern ity must ass ume our respon sibility in attemp
ting to
make the arch that holds manki nd togeth er more secure
. . . the arch
throug h which the childr en of God may enter into the
temple of a
more perfec t world.
We Mason s believe in God.
We believe in the soul.
We believe that life has a meani ng.
We believe in moral ity.
The letter G over the altar is not just a decora tion. It is
there for
a purpos e. Tradit ion has it that our fratern ity dates back
to those
who built the holy Temp le in Jerusa lem in the name of our
God.
The sun rises in the east • . . and sets in the west. This
is the
miracle of every day.
The miracle and the myste ry.
There is anothe r s un. It has not risen to its zenith but
pray God
it will never set. It is the sun of civilization - a reflection
of the divine
Light.
Thus has it been writte n:
"The sun shall be no more thy light by day
Neithe r for bright ness shall the moon give light unto thee.
The Lor~ shall be unto thee an everla sting light."

15

PROCEFDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

roe say that I feel confident in reporting ~o you that .this Grand Lodge
is in an ascending posture and I trust that it ever remams so.
The many activities of this past year would not have been possible
f achievement had it not been for the splendid and untiring support
~f the Grand Lodge Officers and the Inspectors t~roughout the J urisdiction. Our lnspectoral corps can never be suffic1e~tly com~e~ded .for
the unselfish devotion to Masonry and the seemingly unlimited h~e
contributed to Masonic work. I want to especially call to your attention
the tremendous service provided to Masonry in this Jurisdiction by the
Grand Secretary and his staff. In Edward H. Siems this Grand Lodge
possesses a n executive of great ability and a Mason of unusually hig.h
caliber. Through his leadership the Office of the Grand Secretary is
rapidly becoming one of the most efficient service organizations of its
sort anywhere and I want to personally. and before all of you. express my deep gratitude for the outstanding work that is do ne for us
all by the Grand Secretary.
During this past year we received with great regret the resignation
of Very Worshipful Donald G . Campbell as Grand Lecturer. Bro~her
Campbell had served this Grand Lodge as Grand Lecturer smce
January 1, 1960, and I want to quote from his letter of resignation
because I believe his words contain a philosophy about Grand Lodge
service that is most appropriate. These are his words:
"This resignation ... is based solely on my steadfast belief
that no man should occupy any position in the Grand Lodge
beyond a reasonable length of time. The tendency to stay on.
to seek re-appointment or re-election, ha-s. in the past. prevented
and is now' preventing. good younger men from finding a place
in which to grow and develop in our Grand Lodge. Potential
leaders have undoubtedly turned their energies to other paths
because of this. So. I must. in good conscience, move aside to let
the chain of advancement and appointment bring new opportunities for service to other men."
Following acceptance of Brother Campbell's resignation, it was my
great pleasure to appoint the V ery Worshipful Harold N. Richards as
Grand Lecturer of the Grand Lodge of California and I feel that no
man, experienced in the affairs of the Grand Lodge of California, was
better qualified to assume the important duties of this office than
Brother Richards.
Following the passing o f John R. Moore. P.G.M., who was Chairman of the Grand Lodge Committee on Jurisprudence, I selected
Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer, as his s uccessor on this
important Committee and I asked Brother Wakefield Taylor. long
a member of that C ommittee, to succeed to the Chairmanship of the
Committee.

THEODORE MERIAM, Grand Master

To say that this has been a busy year for the Grand Lodge of
California is almost an understatement. Those who ha ve been familiar
with the schedule of Grand Lodge ceremonies and special events are
well aware that the 1I6th year of the Grand Lodge of California has
been one of great activity. First. however, let me extend a very hearty
and fraternal welcome to all present this morning as the I 16th Annual
Communica tion of the Grand Lodge of California convenes. Many of
you have attended Grand Lodge previously - some a great number
of times. Others of you are here for the first time and to these brethren
we especially extend a warm welcome. This can be a busy and exhilarating week for you as you become acquainted with, and participate in ,
the procedures of our Annual Communication. I am sure that you will
each discover very clearly that the Grand Lodge of California is composed of all of the delegated brethren in attendance at each Annual
Communication.
It is the duty of the Grand Master to report on the general condition of Masonry within the Jurisdiction and I am pleased to say that
the past year has been another good year for Masonry in California and
Hawaii. Various statistics supporting this statement will be presented
in the reports which you will hear during this week. H owever, statistics
alone are not the measure of the condition of the Craft. Rather, what
should be reported is the reaction I have experienced through my many
Masonic visits in all parts of this great Jurisdiction during the past
year. I am confident that I have sensed a decided strengthening of
serious interest in the purposes of Freemasonry. I believe that a great,
great many of our brethren are devoting more time. more thought, and
more energy to Masonic activities which are designed for strengthening
our Lodges and thus our total stature. Many of you have, on previous
occasions, heard me use the three words "Dignity, Quality and Substance" and I think I have detected a renewed application of individual
Masonic effort in strong support of these three essential factors. As
each of our brethren applies himself to the responsibility of supporting
our dignity, improving our quality and understanding our substance.
there can be no doubt that this great institution will continue to grow
and command the respect of not only those who are members of it, but
also those who come in contact with it. Throughout this year I have
attempted to stress the individual responsibility that rests upon each
Master Mason to be the instrument of Masonic influence on the lives
of all with whom he comes in contact. I believe there is considerable
understanding of the vital responsibility that each individual Mason
has to apply the teachings of our Craft in his daily life. In short, let

16

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

In the death of Brother James Leo Halley, the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Homes of California lost a devoted and able member
and in his place I appointed P.G.M. Phil N. Myers who had resigned
from the Homes Board several months previously beca use of having
moved to San Francisco . Thus, the Masonic Homes Board was able
to continue to use the wise counsel and devoted service of this highly
respected Mason. With the appointme nt of Brother Myers to the Board
of Trustees of the Masonic Hornes of California , there occurred a
vacancy on the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Memorial Temple
and I was very pleased to appoint Brother Howard M. McKinley .
P.M. of California Lodge No. 1, to serve the unexpired term of
Brother Myers.
One of the most enjoyable experience s for any Grand Master in
his year of service as Grand Master is the opportuni ty to visit our
brethren in Hawaii. Theoretic ally, the visit of the Grand Master to
Hawaii is intended to inspire the brethren of our Lodges in that State
to be more active and more enthusiast ic in their practice of Masonry.
Actually though, this visit must surely be of greater inspiration to the
Grand Master because of the warmth and sincerity of the hospitality
extended by all of the Hawaiian brethren and their families. You have
all heard of the Aloha spirit but one must be present in Hawaii to
really understan d just what this means, because there is such a definite
spirit of brotherho od permeatin g the entire scene in this beautiful island
State. It was my privilege while in Hawaii to place a wreath at the
U.S.S. Arizona Memorial in Pearl Harbor, and also at the Nationa l
Punch Bowl Cemetery in Honolulu on behalf of all of the Masons
of this Jurisdiction. This was both a sobering and thrilling experience .
During this year there have been many outstandin g events in
which your Gra nd Master has participate d. To attempt to describe to
you all of these events would not be possible in the time available
but I do want to comment on three which were particular ly outstandin g.
I attended the 75th Anniversa ry of Porterville Lodge No. 303. This
Lodge held an open banquet in the largest available room in the City
of Porterville and every seat was taken . This provided the Grand
M aster with the opportuni ty to talk about "What Is Freemaso nry?"
to approxima tely 500 men and women of that city. The response of this
group was an inspiration to all of the Grand Lodge Officers who were
present and it was our unanimou s conviction that this type of observance, wherein there is the opportuni ty to describe and explain both the
heritage and purposes of our Craft, can be of great service both to Freemasonry and to the communit y.
In mid-Janua ry we were invited by our Grand Chaplain , the Very
Reverend Edgar Magnin, to join with the congregat ion of his Wilshire
Temple in a special Masonic Night held as a part of their regular
Sabbath service. The attendanc e in this beautiful temple far exceeded

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

17

the capacity of the building and I know that both Rabbi Magnin and
myself were tremendou sly pleased by the wonderful response of the
M asonic brethren and their families, of all denomina tions, as well as
the members of Brother Magnin's congregat ion. I was accorded the
privilege of speaking briefly about Freemaso nry and our Grand Chaplain 's message that evening was an inspiration to all. To me this was
one of the very outstandin g special events of this past year and I felt
that it was of great value to Freemaso nry in California .
In April I joined with the Grand Master of Oregon in a special
evening at the home lodge of the Grand Master of Oregon in Ashland.
This was a particular ly friend ly and cordial interstate gathering and
I felt that for the brethren of the far northern Lodges in California
and the far southern Lodges of Oregon a further tightening of the
strong fraternal bond between these two areas was accomplis hed. We
were pleased a nd honored to have the Grand M aster of Nevada also
present with us on this memorable evening.
These are but three of many fine events which we have been
privileged to participate in during this past year, and it is impossible
for me to adequatel y express to a ll of you my deep appreciati on for
this opportuni ty of participation on behalf of our Grand Lodge.
I want to particularly urge each and every one of you to listen
carefully to the reports of the various Grand Lodge Committe es as they
are presented to you during this week. These reports portray the many
areas of service and work of the Grand Lodge of California . and your
understan ding of these activities is most important for the welfare of
the Lodges which you represent. Some of our Committe es have had an
outstandin g y~r of activity and as each year unfolds there is a lways
the opportuni ty for even more activity and greater service, but this
can only be with the enthusiast ic support of the Lodges of this great
Jurisdiction. I know that your pride in, and your understan ding of.
the operation of the Grand Lodge of California will be all the greater
when you thoughtfu lly consider the reports which will be provided
for you.
Each Grand Master has the responsibi lity of making recom mendations which he thinks may be helpful for the welfare of the Cra ft and ,
in the course of his service as a Grand Lodge Officer, he necessaril y
has had the opportuni ty to observe that which he thinks might be
improved upon and thus recomme ndations are made by every Grand
Master. As the years go along, many of these recommen dations lead
to changes in our pattern which tend to strengthen us, but the determination concernin g any recommen dations by a Grand Master is in
the hands of the Grand Lodge and I urge that each one of you give
thoughtfu l considerat ion to these recommen dations. In addition to the
recommen dations, there are decisions which have been made by the
Grand Master on behalf of the Grand Lodge during the interim be-

18

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

PROCE EDING S OP THE

nt one. This year
tween the last Annu al Comm unica tion and this prese
questi ons were
rous
there were relativ ely few decisi ons made. Nume
referr al to the
l
carefu
a
ces
instan
propo unded to me but in many
becau se the
oner
questi
the
to
sted
sugge
was
C alifornia Maso nic Code
ver. the natur e
answ er to the questi on was clearl y in the Code . Howe
situa tions and
new
of the devel opme nt of our Masonic Law is such that
a decision
and
Code
ng
existi
proble ms are not always cover ed by the
I must
Law.
the
of
body
the
to
adds
must be made which , in effect.
be
must
r
Maste
d
Gran
the
of
ons
decisi
the
remin d you. thoug h, that
of
part
a
e
becom
appro ved by the Gran d Lodge befor e those decisi ons
of
sion
conclu
the
at
our Law. The decisions, too, are separ ately listed
this repor t.
ations I wish
In additi on I have certai n obser vation s and recom mend
the Gran d
of
copy
d
printe
the
in
ately
to make. They are listed separ
ge.
messa
Maste r's Messa ge, at the end of the
into the next. I
As this Grand Lodge year ends, and as we move
part in addin g to
want to challenge each of you to do your perso nal
. We are prone to
the wond erful herita ge that is ours as Freem asons
Freem asonr y must
be comp lacen t and to take thing s for grant ed.
cing. We must be
advan
be
s
alway
never be stagn ant; rather . it must
e responsibilWhos
do.
we
that
all
in
alway s strivi ng for impro vemen t
r Maso n , for
Maste
each
of
ity
ity is this? It is clear1y the respo nsibil
ngs of our
teachi
the
apply
day
he alone is the one who must each
matte r. an
dual
indivi
an
is
Craft in and to his life. Freemasonr y
that
Make
.
tunity
oppor
indivi dual responsibility, and an indivi dual
to
g
addin
be
will
you
oppor tunity and that respo nsibil ity yours and
our great herita ge.
le and heartOnce again , I want to expre ss to all of you my humb
ded me in
accor
been
has
that
felt appre ciatio n for the great honor
r of this
Maste
Grand
as
serve
havin g been ·select ed by my brethr en to
exding
rewar
and
ating
great Gran d Lodge . This has been a fascin
en.
brethr
perien ce and I shall be foreve r gratef ul to my
GRAND MASTE R

was referr ed
The messa ge was received wi th a stand ing ovatio n and
.
bution
Distri
by the Depu ty Grand Mast er to the Comm ittee on
ns, Decisions
NOT E: The text of the Gran d Maste r's Observatio
comm ittees
of
ts
repor
able
applic
with
and Recom mend ations , togeth er
d in these
printe
are
them,
on
Lodge
and actions taken by the Gran d
Proce eding s starti ng on page 200.

19

SPECI AL COMM UNICA TIONS OF GRAN D LoDGE

1964
house , Sacra Octob er 23-C orner stone , Sacra mento C ounty Court
mento.
Sunny vale.
Octob er 31-Constit ution, Great Light s Lodg e No. 818,
l. Riverside.
Schoo
High
Nove mber 13-C orner stone , John W. North
l. Golet a.
Schoo
High
r
Junio
y
Nove mber 14-C orner stone , Golet a Valle
attan
Manh
817,
No.
Lodge
attan
Manh
n,
Novem ber 14- Cons titutio
Beach .
e No. 816, Holly Nove mber 16--C onstit ution , Willi am B. Ogde n Lodg
wood .
d Junio r Colle ge,
Novem ber 17- Corne rstone , O ce ansid e-Ca rlsba
side.
Ocean
815, Ontar io.
Nove mber 20--C onstit ution , Moun t Baldy Lodge No.
Whit tier.
le,
Nove mber 21 - Corne rstone , Whit tier Maso nic Temp
1965
Schoo l. River Janua ry I 5-Co rners tone, River side Polyte chnic High
side.
Maso nic Memo rial
Janua ry 16- Corne rstone , San Diego Scotti sh Rite
Cente r, San Diego .
School. Yuba City.
ry
Janua 30- Corne rstone , April Lane Elem entary
urst.
Oakh
le,
Temp
nic
Maso
Febru ary 5- C orner stone , Sierra
hapi.
Tehac
l,
Schoo
High
hapi
Febru ary 6--Corner stone, Tehac
ia.
Arcad
le.
Temp
nic
Maso
ia
Arcad
Marc h 6-Co rners tone,
ey.
Marc h 27-C orner stone , Sierra Kings Hospi tal, Reedl
mento.
Sacra
Hall,
April 3- C orners tone, Scotti sh Rite Memo rial
lle.
tsonvi
a
W
April 24-C orner stone, City Hall.
Junio r Colle ge,
April 25-C orner stone , Administra tion Building , Napa
Napa .
April 30--C orner stone , Alisa! High School. Salina s.
Bragg (Myr on E.
May I-Co rners tone. Fort Bragg High School, Fort
er).
Mast
Smith, Depu ty Grand
Schoo l, Hunti ngton
May 15-Co rnerstone, Josep h R. Perry Eleme ntary
er).
Mast
d
Gran
eputy
D
,
Smith
E.
on
Beach (Myr
l. Hunti ngton
Schoo
entary
Elem
r
Eade
H.
John
tone.
May 15-Co rners
er).
Mast
d
Beach (Myr on E. Smith . Depu ty Gran
Golet a (Myr on E.
May 22-C ornerstone , La Pater a Elem entary School.
.
aster)
M
Grand
ty
Smith , Depu
Golet a (Myr on E.
May 22-C orner stone , Footh ill Elem entary School,
Smith , Depu ty Gran d Mast er).
l. Tus tin.
June 12-C orner stone , W.R . Nelso n Elem entary Schoo
n.
Tusti
l.
Schoo
ert
Lamb
June 12- Corne rstone , C. C.
y.
June 12-C orner stone , Tyre Masonic T emple, D owne
Rosam ond.
l.
Schoo
High
Junior
ond
Rosam
stone,
July 10--C orner
Tuolu mne.
l,
Schoo
July 1?-Co rners tone, S ummerville Union High

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

July 31-Cornerstone, Normal Heights Masonic Temple, San Diego.
August 21-Cornerstone. Downey Masonic Temple . Downey.
Augus t 21-Cornerstone, El Descanso Elementary School. Camarillo.
August 28-Cornerstone, College Center Building, Mt. San Antonio
College, Walnut.
September I I-Cornerstone, John F. Kennedy High School. Barstow.
September 11-Cornerstone. Barstow College. Barstow.
September 14-Cornerstone. Elementary School. P aradise.
September 18-Cornerstone, Henry Eissler Elementary School. Bakersfield .
September 18-Cornerstone, West High School. Bakersfield.
September 25-Cornerstone. Clear Lake Masonic Temple. Lower Lake.
September 29- Cornerstone, Brentwood Liberty Union High School.
Brentwood.
October I-Cornerstone. Yucaipa High School, Yucaipa.

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

20

SPECIAL CEREMONIES- DEDICATIONS

1964
October 24-Covelo Masonic Temple. Covelo.
November 21 - Baldwin Park Masonic Temple, Baldwin Park.
1965
February 12-Lodi Elementary School. Lodi (Laurence E. Dayton .
Senior Grand Warden).
February 27-Victorville Masonic Temple. Victorville (Myron E.
Smith, Deputy Grand Master).
April 3-George A. Primrose Temple, Sacramento.
April 14-Home Lodge No. 721 Masonic Temple, North Hollywood.
April 29-Golden W est Intermediate School, Travis (Laurence E.
Dayton, Senior Grand Warden).
May I- Reginald Benton Intermediate School, La Mirada.
May I-William Neff High School. La Mirada.
May 5-John F . Kennedy School, Artesia (John F . Porter. Junior
Grand Warden).
June 5-Biggs Union High School. Biggs.
June 10--Unity Masonic Temple. Glendale.
July 15-Santa Rosa Masonic Temple, Santa Rosa.
August 28-Westchester Masonic Temple. Playa de! Rey.
September 9-Morada Eastview Elementary School. Stockton (Laurence E. Dayton, Senior Grand Warden).
September 24-Arcadia Masonic Temple, Arcadia.
NEW LODGES INSTITUTED

1964
December 29-lnstitute, Gateway Lodge, Pacific Grove.

21

1964
October 18-Breakfast. San Francisco M asters and Wardens Association, San Francisco.
October 22-Reception. Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
October 23--Annual Meeting, Grand Chapter Order of the Eastern
Star. Sacramento.
October 25- Breakfast. 307, 308. 310. 314 and 316th Districts, Santa
Rosa.
October 29-East Bay York Rite Bodies Night, Oakland.
October 30--Reception, Santa Clara V alley Officers Association, San
Jose.
November I-Breakfast, San Mateo County Masonic Officers Association, Millbrae.
November 28-DeMolay Annual Northern California Jurisdictional
Convention, Sacramento.
December 5-Ben Ali Shrine Ceremonial, Sacramento.
December 9-Installation of Officers, Lincoln Lodge No. 470, San Francisco.
December 12-lnitiation Ball. Masonic Club at the University. Berkeley
(Myron E. Smith. Deputy Grand Master).
1965
January 5-lnstallation of Officers. Chico Lodge No. 111, Chico.
January 8-Masonic Homes Board Meeting, Union City.
January 8-Reception, Masonic Home. Union City.
January I 0--Tri State Conference, Boise, Ida ho (Grand Master and
Grand Secretary).
January 13-Visit, Molino Lodge No. 150. Tehama.
January 14-Visit, Hiram Lodge No. 43, El Dorado.
January 15-Visit, Wilshire Boulevard Temple. Los Angeles.
January 19-Installation of Officers, Leland Stanford Lodge No. 784.
Chico.
January 21-Visit. Washington Lodge No. 20, Sacramento.
January 23-Dedication, California Bodies Temple, A.A.S .R., San
Francisco.
January 24-Visit, First Baptist Church, Van Nuys.
January 25-Reception, 318, 360, 36lst Districts, Orinda.
January 26-Reception, 319, 320th Districts, Richmond.
February 3-Visit, Reading Lodge No. 254, Redding .
February 12-Dinner, China Masons Club, San Francisco.
February 13-Dinner, Northern California Press Club, San Fxancisco.
March 3-lnstallation of Officers, M asonic Press Club of Los Angeles.
Los Angeles.

23

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

March 4-Dinn er Honorin g Donald G. Campbel l, Past Grand Lecturer,
Los Angeles.
March 5-Dinne r, Statewid e Worksho p of the Scottish Rite, Sacramento.
March 6-Recep tion, U.C.L.A . M aso nic Clubhou se, Los Angeles.
March 7-West wood Hills Christian Church Service, Los Angeles.
March 8-Recep tion, 536. 538, 540th Districts , Rosemea d.
March I I- Reception , Islam Temple, A.A.O.N .M.S., San Francisco.
March 12-Lunc heon, Shrine Luncheon Club. Aahmes Temple. Oakland.
March 13- Reception, Aahmes T emple, A.A.O.N .M.S .. O akland.
March 14-Brea kfast, East Bay Annual Spring Breakfas t. Oakland .
March 19-Rece ption, 530. 532. 534th Districts, San Marino.
March 20--Mas onic H omes Board Meeting. Covina.
March 2I-Brea kfast, Los Angeles Board of Relief. Hollywo od.
March 26. 27, 28-Div ision Six Conferen ce.
March 28-Rece ption and Breakfas t. Long Beach Masonic Board of Relief. Long Beach.
March 3I-Lunc heon, Oakland Insuranc e Squa re Club. Oakland (Laurence E. Dayton, Senior Grand W arden ) .
March 31-Rece ption, 314th District. San Rafael.
April 2-Dinn er. Scottish Rite Temple, Los Angeles.
April 4-Break fast. Annual Masonic Spring Breakfas t, Sacrame nto.
April 7-Visit . Ashland Lodge N o. 23, Ashland , Oregon.
April 9. 10. I I-Divisi on Three Conferen ce.
April 11-1965 Californ ia State DeMola y Associat ion Convent ion,
Fresno.
April 12-Gra nd Assembly, Internati onal Order of Rainbow for Girls.
Sacrame nto.
eption. 642nd District. Chula Vista.
13-Rec
April
April 20-Rece ption. Olivet Lodge No. 205. Corning .
April 22-Rece ption, Berkeley Masters a nd Warden s Association,
Berkeley.
April 23-Tele vision Broadca st, Public Schools Week Program , Los
Angeles.
April 23-Initi ation Ba ll. Masonic Clubhou se. Berkeley (John F. Porter,
Junior Grand Warden ).
April 23-Rece ption, 392, 394th Districts , Montere y.
April 24-Dedi cation, Fiddleto wn Masonic Cemeter y. Fiddleto wn.
April 26-Pub lic Schools W eek Program , Los Angeles.
April 27-Gra nd York Rite Bodies Annual Conclave . San Francisc o.
April 29-Pub lic Schools W eek Program , Chico.
May 2-Break fast. 608, 614th Districts . Anaheim .
May 7, 8, 9- Division Five Conference.
May 10--Enr oute to Hawaii.

May JO-Rece ption . Kauai Lod ge No. 589. Kauai.
May 12-Reception, Maui No. 472, Kahului.
May 14- Reception, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo.
May 16--Din ner. Kona Area Masons . Kailua.
May 18-Lun cheon, Red Cross of Constan tine, Honolulu.
May 18-Reception. 7 Oahu Lodges, Honolulu .
May 20-Lun cheon, Aloha Shrine Temple, Honolulu .
May 21-Visi t, Punchbowl Cemeter y and Laying Wreath on Tomb of
the Unknow n Soldier, Honolulu .
May 22- Dinner, 384th and 385th Districts, Honolulu.
May 24- Visit, U .S.S. Arizona Memoria l and Placing Wreath, H onolulu.
May 24-Dinn er, York Rite Bodies, Honolulu .
May 25- D inner, Scottish Rite. Honolulu.
June 4, 5-Divis ion Four Conferen ce.
June 10-Reception, 428. 430. 431 st Districts , Bakersfield.
June 18, 19-Divi sions O ne and Two Conferen ce.
June 25-Gra nd Bethel. Job's Daughte rs, Squaw Valley.
June 25-Ann ual Beefstea k Feed, Inglewoo d Lodge No 42I, Inglewoo d.
June 26-Join t Meeting . Californi a Research Lodges, Los Angeles.
June 27- Annual St. John's Day Breakfast, Anchor Lodge No. 273.
Compton .
July 9-Recep tion, 504 th District . Palmdal e.
July I 7-Recep tion, 404th District, Sonora.
July 21-Rece ption , Dunsmu ir Lodge No. 279, Dunsmuir.
July 23, 24-Mas onic H omes Board Meeting , Caribou.
August 7-Rece ption, 300, 301 st Districts , Eureka.
August 7-Plaqu e laying ceremon y. Grave of William Van Voorhies ,
Eureka.
August I 0-Joint Reception, Sincerity Lodge No. 132 and Sincerity
Chapter No. 53. OES. Greenville.
August 20-Rece ption, 620. 621 st Districts. Avalon.
August 21-Rece ption for Edward Mancuso, Associate Grand Patron,
OES, San Francisco.
Septemb er 3--BBQ , I 16th and I 17th Districts . Durham.
Septemb er 4- Recep tion. Order of Ama ranth, Chico.
Septemb er 16--Visi tation. Silveyville Lodge No. 201, Dixon.
Septemb er 19- Breakfas t, 418th Masonic D istrict, Las Palmas.
October I-Reception, 607th and 609th Districts , San Jacinto Mountai n .
October 2-Recep tion and BBQ, 636th and 637th Districts , Fallbrook.
October 3-Episc opal Church Service, Fallbroo k.

22

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
AN NIVERSARIES

1964
October 31-Golden Aniversary, Coronado Lodge No. 441, Coronado
(Myron E. Smith, Deputy Grand Master).
October 31-Golden Aniversary, Blackmer Lodge No. 442, San Diego
(Myron E . Smith, Deputy Grand Master).
December 1l-75th Anniversary, Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295. Guerneville.
1965
February 6-75th Anniversary, Porterville Lodge No. 303. Porterville.
March 13-Golden Anniversary, Crocker Lodge No. 454, Daly City
(Laurence E. Dayton, Senior Grand Warden) .
April 24-Centennial Celebration, Drytown Lodge No. 174, Plymouth.
June 26--Centennial C elebration. Antioch Lodge No. 175, Antioch.
V1s1TATIONS DY GRA ND LODGE OFFICERS TO
OTHER GRA ND JURISDICTIONS
1964
November 9, IO-Annual Communica tion, Grand Lodge of Nevada
(Laurence E. Day ton, Senior Grand Warden) .
1965
February 22, 23. 24, 25-Conference of Grand Masters ?f North Ame~­
ica and Annual Meeting of The George Washington Masomc
National Memorial Association, Washington, D . C. (Grand
Master, D eputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary).
April 26--Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona (John F.
Porter, Junior Grand Warden).
June IS-Annual C ommunication, Grand Lodge of Washin gton (Myron E. Smith, Deputy Grand Master).
June 16, 17-Annual Communica tion , Grand Lodge of Oregon.
June 28-Annual Communication . Grand Lodge of Montana (Guy B.
Mize, Past Grand Master).
September 21. 22- Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Idaho
(Basil R. Gillett, Grand Marshal) .

25

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA
THEODO RE MER I AM
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMATION -

D EM OLAY W EEK

M ARCH I 5-20. 1965
The Code of D eMolay consists of fo urteen precepts, the fourteenth
of which is that " A DeMolay by precept and example must preserve the
high standards to which he has pledged hi mself." The Order of DeMolay, founded on M asonic principles , is of immeasurable value in
helping to mold and develop the character of the youth privileged to
participate in DeMolay.
The young men of DeMolay have indeed pledged themselves to a
code of high standards. and it is incumbent upon all Masons to encoUiage
and support them in t heir resolve. To do otherwise is to default in our
own practice and exemplification of Masonic ideals.
Our encouragement and support of D eM olay should be more than
mere endorsement; we must also help "preserve by example" the high
standards to which the Order of DeMolay subscribes by continuously
providing the example of ourselves as good men, as good citizens. as
good Masons. This is leadership for our youth-leadership of the highest
sort.
Each Master Mason in this jurisdiction should become well acquainted with De Molay. its purposes. its activities and its members. As Grand
Master I urge you to "Let the DeMolay know who the Masons are: and
let the Masons know who the DeMolay are." I. therefore, hereb y proclaim the week of March 15-20. 1965. as DeMolay W eek in this jurisdiction and I urge that this special week be embraced by each constituent
Lodge as an opportunity week in w hich to become better acquainted with
DeMolay, and I further urge that each Master of a Lodge arran ge for
suitable ways in which to accomplish this.
I direct that this procla mation be read at the February and March
Stated Meetings and, if possible, that it be included in Lodge bulletins
for M a rch.
Dated : January 25. 1965
Fraternally yours,
THEODORE MERIAM
Grand Ma ster
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand S ecretary

26

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE

GRAND LODGE

FREE AND ACCEPT ED MASONS

FREE A N D ACCEPTED MASONS

OF CALIFORNIA

OF CALIFORN IA
T H EODORE MERIAM
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMATION
FORTY-SIXTH ANNUAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
In 1920, Charles Albert Adams said: " As M asons we unqualifiedly
subscribe to the belief that an educated and enlightened citizenship is
the fir·st great care of the progressive State; and that upon our Public
Schools depends the hope for the perpetuity of a free and untrammeled
democracy.''
We cannot be too often reminded of this statement by the founder of
Public Schools Week. It is perhaps more applicable today than it was
forty-five years ago.
As M asons, we have a responsibility to be in the front ranks of an
intelligent citizenry dedicated to sound and sturdy support of our public
schools. We need to provide leadership and example for all people to
understand the purpose and function of all of our schools. Public Schools
Week draws attention annually to our public schools. but more than
cursory attention during a single week is needed. Let us all resolve to be
better informed concerning the problems, the goals, the policies, the
needs-and all that involves the acquirement of ever-better schools and
an ever-finer product of our schools. Understanding will not be brought
to us: rather, we must seek it, and it is important that we do so.
The week of April 26 through 30, 1965 is proclaimed as Public
Schools Week in CaHfornia- the 46th Annual Observance. The year
1965 also marks the Centennial Celebration of the American Asssociation of School Administrators. It is a time when we should salute and pay
tribute to th e d edicated me n and women who have the awesome responsibility of administering the operation of our schools. The theme of Public
Schools Week for 1965 is-HELP BUILD A BETTER AMERICASUPPORT OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. May all unite in active, intelligent and sincere support of our public schools and of those who
serve America in the vital role of education.
I direct that only Stated Meetings or those for Public Schools Week
observance be held during Public Schools Week.
This Proclamation is to be read at the Sta ted Meetings held in the
months of March and April. 1965.
Dated: February 23 , 1965
Fraternally yours.
THEODORE MERIAM
Attest:
Grand Master
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

27

THEODORE MERIAM
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMATION
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH
Alexander Pope ( 1688-1744) once wrote"In faith and hope the world will disagree,
but all mankind's concern is charity."
The great charitable concern of California Freemasonry is the continued and adequate support of our Masonic Homes. The facts of rising
costs and rising needs combine to make our concern ever greater. There
is need for a PLUS EFFORT for our Homes.
Following long established tradition, I hereby proclaim the month
of May as "Masonic Homes Endowment Month." I urge that each
Master Mason in this Jurisdiction join with his brethren in strong and
unanimous financial support of our Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.
Let us make this a year in which each of us does a little more to help
with the " plus effort'' that is so vital a part of our responsibility as
Masons.
I direct that this Proclama tion be read at the March or April Stated
Meeting. and urge that a copy hereof be sent to each member.
Dated: Februery 15, 1965
Fraternally yours,
THEODORE MERIAM
Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

28

29

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 11, 1965

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA
THEODORE MERIAM
GRANO MASTER

PROCLAMATION
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH

When the Constitution of the United States of America was written
so many years ago, one of the great concepts of human relations and
self-government was reduced to writing. Based on the dignity and rights
of the individual. this Constitution was one of the greatest documents
ever penned by the hand of man.
For the last thirty-four years, we have celebrated in California the
birth date of this great document, bringing to the attention of all Californians the importance of the principles and ideals which all Americans
enjoy and live by.
It is incumbent on all Californians to cherish this Constitution and
rejoice in its creation whereby the dignity and freedom of the individual
American is forever secured.
Therefore, the celebration of this important event in American history, in fact in the history of all mankind. should be a joyous occasion
and recognized as such by all the people of California. I therefore proclaim the month of September, 1965, to be Constitution Observance
Month and direct that all constituent Lodges hold public celebrations
commemorating the signing of the Constitution of the United States,
and I further request that if at all possible no such celebration shall be
held in a Masonic building in the various communities unless such
Masonic building is the principal meeting place for the public in the
community.
This proclamation shall be read at the August and September Stated
Meetings.
Dated this eighteenth day of June, 1965.
THEODORE MERIAM

Grand Ma ster
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

At 1 :45 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Harry C. Petzwal, Past
Master and Secretary of Sincerity Lodge No. 132. The invocation was
delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The following Grand Masters were received with private Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to
seats:
M:.w:.EARL F. HERoLo,

Grand Master of Masons in Pennsylvania.
M.'.W.".PERCY H. WILLIAMS,

Grand Master of Masons in Michigan.
M:.w:.J. CARROLL H1NsLEY,

Grand Master of Masons in T exas.
M:.w:.JoHN J. MuRcH1soN,

Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.
M:.w:.GEoRGE H. Bov1NGD0N.

Grand Master of Masons in Washington.
M : .w: .JOHN H. WESCH,
Grand Master of Masons in Colorado.

M: .w:.H. GREGORY McCuLLocH.
Grand Master of Masons in Nevada .
M.'.W.".ERNEST A. NEATH,

Grand Master of Ma.sons in Montana .

M:.w:.A. WARREN CATE,
Grand Master of Masons in Idaho.
M : .W:.HERMAN 0. FETSCHER,

Grand Master of Ma sons in Utah.
M:.w:.R1cHARo J. LoPsH1RE,

Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were received with public Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to
seats:
M:.w: .W1LLIAM H. TAYLOR,
Past Grand Master, Philippines.
M:.w:.STANToN YouNGBERG,

Past Grand Master, Philippines.
W. ' .FELIX A. LENHART,

Past Grand Treasurer, Czechoslovakia.
v:.w:.ALTON KAUFFMAN,

At 12: 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :45 p.m.

Grand Lecturer, Idaho.

30

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The following distingui shed guests were received with public Grand
Honors, individua lly welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to
seats:
R .· .w . ·.EDwARD L. P1NE,
Senior Grand Warden. Nevada.
V.'.W.' .D. PETER LAGUENS, }R.
Grand Secretar y. Louisiana.
V.'.W.' . DEAN c. SETTLE,
A cting Grand Secretar y, Colorado.
V.'.W.'.G ERALD I. CRAIG,
Past Grand Master and Grand Secreta ry, Arizona.
The Grand Master requeste d Most Worship ful Ernest A . Neath,
Grand Master of Masons in Montana , to speak on behalf of the
visiting distingui shed guests. He delivered a thought provokin g message
on Masonry .
At various times during the Commun ication the Grand Master
called on the visiting Grand M asters individua lly to address the members of Grand Lodge. Each expresse d his fraternal greetings and discussed in a humorou s, provocat ive and thoughtf ul manner Masonic
matters of interest to the represen tatives.
On Tuesday afternoo n the Grand Master presente d for recogniti on
Brother John B. Cha ney, a member of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, who
on tha t day was celebrati ng his 106th birthday . He was accorded a
standing ovation.

REPOR T OF GRAN D TREAS URER
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:

1 take pleasure in presentin g my second annual report as Grand
Treasure r.
During the last Annual Commun ication the office of Assistan t
Grand Treasure r was vacant. On my recomme ndation Most Worship ful Theodor e Meriam, Grand Master, appointe d to that office Brother
Jack F. Bowley. Brother Jack has been particula rly helpful as a
member of the Investme nt Committ ee. His experien ce in the field of
finance recomme nded him for this position. We welcome him to the
official family.
The financial statemen ts and a udits of the Grand Lodge, Masonic
Homes of Californ ia and the Californ ia Masonic Memoria l Temple
are a part of this report. Each gives a complete financial history of
its individua l corporat e activity and together they represen t the
financial story of the Grand Lodge and all its compone nts. A careful

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31

. g of the several reports. dincluding schedule s and exhibits
readin
.
.
attached thereto. is strongly urg.e :
It was again my pleasure to sit m with represen tatives of Lybrand ,
Bros. & Montgom ery and with members of the office to review
R
th':detai ls of the audits. All appropri ations a~d disburse ments as _provided in Section 194 C.M.C. were carefully reviewed by the professio nal
auditors.
The budget approved at the last Annual Commun ication has been
carefully adhered to. For Grand Lodge proper the per capita tax for the
years J 963 and I 964 were identical . The per capita increases in the
1964 budget were reflected in the Homes and as a result of Grand
Lodge authorizi ng the publicati on of the California Freemason for all
members of Californ ia Lodges.
It is a recorded fact that all costs of business operatio ns have
been increasing. particula rly items such as materials , supplies and
wages. Reasona ble office salary adjustme nts during the past two years
were made for all employe es except for the Grand Secretar y, who
in my judgmen t should be given a substant ial increase, there having
been no adjustme nt for him since his employm ent five years ago. It is
a credit to the Grand Secretar y and his staff that they were able again
to show a budget surplus of $33,033.00. Some of these economi es
are the direct result of a program started three years ago to moderniz e
the Grand Lodge accounti ng procedur es. I feel confident that further
economies will result as additiona l refinements are made. The office
staff. as well as. the committe es and constitut ional boards. are to be
commend ed for their efforts and devotion to Freemas onry in this regard.
The Grand Master was requeste d and did authoriz e supplem ental
appropri ations to cover items totaling $3.096.05. The detail of these
items will be recorded in the Report of the Finance Committ ee.
I express my sincere thanks and apprecia tion to our Gra nd Master,
Most Worship ful Theodor e Meriam, for his sympath etic understa nding and keen interest in the finances of Grand Lodge and its
compone nts; to my associate , Worship ful Jack F. Bowley, Assistan t
Grand Treasure r, for his willingness to discuss financial problems
pertainin g to our offices; and to our Grand Secretar y, Very Worship ful Edward H. Siems, and his staff for their continuin g desire to be
of service at every opportun ity and with whom I have almost daily
contact.
Respect£ ully submitte d,
PAUL A. PFLUEGER
Grand Treasurer
Referred to Committ ee on Distribut ion.

33

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS, Continued

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

:iurs i;ndgd i!).!D~ 30,

Years Ended iiune JO,
1964
1965
INCOME RECEIPTS:
Grand Lodge:
Per capita, contributions, and fees
Interest, dividends. and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
.
.
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
Payments through Lodges to: Homes
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Other Endowment Funds:
Contributions
Interest and dividends
Memorial Temple•
Interest
Memorial Temple operations

Total income and capital
receipts - fon.iard

s

344,058
58,456
402,516

~

332' 314
17 1 ~81

Grand Lodge:
Operating expense

421,051
42 r 771
137, 2Bl
601,J,05

417,979
50,220
132,697
600,896

,Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Operation of Homes and outside relief
Administrative and general expense

599,393

486,936

Masonic Homes - Endowment and Trust Funds:
Miscellaneous

381

1,516
20,823

J0,91Q

22,J~9

4.062
162,105
166' 167

4.249
180,235
185,184

1,800,091

1. 645, 150

CAPITAL RECEIPTS, INCLUDING CAPIThL GAINS:
Grand Lodge:
Gain on sale of securities
Bequest

BBS
2,204
3,089

63,761

Mas onic Homes - General Fund:
Gain on sale of securities
Bequests and contributions
Assignments by residents

77, 924
313' 383
400,029
791,J66

386 r 781
370,417
445,148
1,202,346

Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Bequests and contributions
Gain on sale of securities

1.333,052
2<;!2,025
1.625,077

908,154
764,!;!87
L67J, 041

Masonic Homes - Other Endowmen t and
Trust Funds:
Bequests
. .
Gain on sale of securities
Received from residents for
deposit (net)
Memorial Temple:
Grand Lodge per capita and
contributions
Bequests and individual contribution•
Addition to reserve for renewals and
replac ements
Total income and capital
receipt• - forward

63'161

$5,078,189

$4,960,024

362,654

34Ll04

1, 702 r 806

100,36!;1
l,80J,l74

1,507,175
93,921
1,601,09!1

3,660

4,063

6,406
149,162
26,190

8,888
153.887
39,112

1,629
1!;!3, 38Z

203,7;)9

2,352,875

2,150.002

Memorial Temple:
Administrative and general expense
Memorial Temple operations
Interest on notes payable
Transferred to reserve for renewals
and replacements
Total operating expenses

Total income (exclusive of
capital gains)

~

EXPENSE DISBURSEMENTS:

349 ,:Z25

l0,52~

.l..2..22.

BXPENS.ES PAID FROM FUNDS AND RESERVES:
Grand Lodge:
From Reserve for "California
Freemason", to offset publication
costs
·
Legal fee relating to legacy income
Masonic Homes - General Fund - expenses
charged to reserves for special
purposes (1963-1964 year only}

l,!;!~2

36.109
6, 143
104,708

Total expenses

2,395,127

2,254,710

Net increase in fund balance s

$2,683,062

S2 705,314

The foregoing net in crea se in fund balances during the years
ended June 30, 1965 and 1964 are repre sented by the following:
480,296
27 I 296

19,752
~.J20

2 ' 17§
512.766

23,072

297 ,433
46,736

297,364
53 ,438

i,629
34 5 ,798

l ,!;!5~
352,654

5,078,189

4,960,024

Increase (decrease) in cash on deposit
in banks
Increase in securities owned
Increase in buildings and equipnent
Decrease in loans from banks
Increase (decrease) in mis c ellaneous
assets, net
Decrease (increase) in sundry liabilities
Net increase in fund balances ,
as above

$

235,554
1,666,642
453,343
342,000

$(1,076,461)
2,536,170
945,822
354,000

4,008
(18.482)

(78,529)
24.312

$2,6§3.062

$ 2.?QS.314

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary now
requests permission to properly endorse their Charters.
(NOTE: See Reports of Committees on Charters and on By-Laws
for action taken.)
Consolidation of Lodges:
All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been
complied with by South San Francisco Lodge N o. 212 and Francis
Drake Lodge No. 376 they will consolidate, effective December 1, 1965 ,
with the approval of the Grand Master. The Lodge will be known as
Francis Drake - South San Francisco Lodge No. 212.
The Grand Secretary requests a uthority to properly endorse these
Charters.
(NOTE: See Report of Committee on Charters for action taken.)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
I have the honor to present to you my Fifth Annual Report as
Grand Secretary.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Com·
munication to the present one:
I. Concurrent Jurisdiction and Publication, pages 79 and 316, 1964
Proceedings.
. .
2. Grand Master's Recommendation Committee on Const1tut10n
Observance, pages 29 and 292. 1964 Proceedings.
3. Masonic Plaque or Sign with Emblem at Entrance to City. pages
66 and 301, 1964 Proceerings.
4. Publish Names of Elected Candidates, pages 68 and 302, 1964
Proceeding s.
5. Report by Committee - Study of Section 408. pages 308 and
311. 1964 Proceedings.
6. Special Committee on Committee Structure, pages 31, 295 and
296. 1964 Proceedings.
7. Ritual for Placing Plaque, page 325, 1964 Proceedings.
CHARTER AMENDMENTS

Change of M eeting Place:
On January 1, 1965, the City o f North Sacramento was annexed
by the City of Sacramento. Therefo re. the meeting place of Warren G.
Harding Lodge No. 579 and Polaris Lodge No. 730 has been changed
to Sacramento.
Two Lodges show a change of location which is not an actual change
of meeting place but it is a change of the designation of the area. The
meeting place of Culver City Lodge No. 467 is now listed as Culver
City instead of Los Angeles. The meeting place of West Los Angeles
Lodge No. 373 is now listed as Los Angeles instead of West Los
Angeles.
.
Following is a list of Lodges and the changes of meetmg place
which have occurred during the year:
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464 from Daly City to San Francisco.
South Park Lodge No. 563 from Los Angeles to H awthorne.
Sierra Lodge No. 788 from Bass Lake to Oakhurst.
Benevolence Lodge No. 631 from North Hollywood to Los Angeles .
James Madison Lodge No. 572 from Los Angeles to Playa del R ey.
Lakewood Lodge No. 728 from Long Beach to Bellflower.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212 from San Francisco to South
San Francisco.
East Bay Lodge No. 489 from Berkeley to Orinda.
These changes o·f meeting place have been officially approved under

35

NEW LODGES

Gateway Lodge, U .D.. located at Seaside, was formed during the
year. Dispensation granted December 10, 1964. The Lodge was
instituted December 29, 1964, at Pacific Grove, Most Worshipful
Theodore Meriam, Grand Master. presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: George Leonard Walter
(Master). Roy Eugene Tilly (Senior Warden). John Edward Flatley
(Junior Warden) , Alvah Raymond Newsome, Dean Alvero Rohwer,
Bertram Lester H eckenlaible, William Holden Carr, Richard Hopelain, Luther Lee Pilcher, Erdman Albert Roof. John McDonald Pattullo, Frederick. F ernie Mitchell, Donald Richard Howland, John Arthur
Clemett. James Robert Flaws, Louis Victor Manning, Wallace Malcolm
Butler, Ernest Bazel Hart, Garnet Lafayette Parks, Alfred Jackson
Drews , H enry William Radley, David Laskin, Howard Homar Hut~
cheson, George Thomas Cunningham, Donald Delbert Kenoyer.
Frederick Lewis Bradley and Frederick Joseph Huxtable.
M EMBERSHIP

M embership Summary:
New L odges F ormed .......... ..
Initiated ................................. .
Passed ................................... .
Raised ....................................

Affiliations ........................... .

1950
6
9183
9125
9406
2021
391
1623

Reinstated ..............................
Withdrawn ............................
Suspended for NonPayment of Dues..............
776
Suspended or
Expelled for Cause..........
23
Died ........................................ 3144
Number of Members............196,800

1955
17
8609
8434
8679
2852
383
1935

1960
5
7056
6755
6805
2308
320
1878

6144
5899
5875
2360
362
1970

1053

1413

1495

32
3676
224,887•

40
4411
241,819•

37
5008
244,586 *

1965
2

36

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Dues Remitted ··-·····-···········
Gain ······-··············-·····-············
Number of Lodges
(excluding Research
Lodges) ···········--··-···········--•Plural Members
(Included in Total) ..........
Research Membership ........

1950
2506
6257

1955
3564
5223

1960
3381
1691

1965
3494
87

605

653

696

709

463

1372
321

1832
328

Increase in
No. Lodges

Decrease in
No. Lodges
15

FEES FOR DEGREES

Amount
$ 50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
65.00
70.00
74.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
100.00
102.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00
140.00
150.00
165.00
175.00
215
Total Lodges
Average

1960
No. Lodges
92
4
2
11
1
182
22
3
17
1

1965
No. Lodges
77
1
2
1
15
1
1
166
1
22
4
25
1
1

215
5
3
35
3
78
1
1
3
6
8
3
696
$90.69

222
1
10
3
44
5
80
1
3
3
7
3
8
1
709
$92.70

1

2
1

4
1

16

1
1
8

1
7

Amount
$12.00
14.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00
24.00
25.00
40.00
50.00
Total Lodges
Average

3
1

1965
No. Lodges
68
218
58
2
252
75
12
16
6
1

5
9
2
2
2
1
3
2
13
40

36

Increase in
No. Lodges

Decrease in
No. Lodges

1

696
$15.33

709
$16.87

72

1
102
4
101
59
12
13
5
1
1

MONIES RECEIVED

Pursuant to the requirement noted in the California Masonic Code
that I report at each Annual Communication an account of monies
received by me during the year, I refer you to the audited statements
of accounts prepared by Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, Public
Accountants, which will be distributed in the advance reports as well
as appear in the printed Proceedings of this Communication. These, and
other financial statements presented by the Grand T reasurer, the Inves tment and Finance Committees, and the several other C ommittees. reflect
the details of receipts and disbursements recorded by this office.
LIBRARY

As Grand Librarian, I have worked closely with Chairman David R.
Lane and members of the Board of Library Commissioners. This year,
for the firs t time, we have managed to keep the Library "manned" and
open to Temple visitors nearly five days of each week througho ut the
year. Most of our books have been properly accessed, and our lending
program of books to members of the com:;tituent Lodges has continued
to grow. We are indebted to our faithful volunteers who have been
developing this work for the interest of the entire membership.
PARAPHERNALIA

1

ANNUAL DUES

1960
No. Lodges
140
1
320
62
2
151
16

37

Eight years ago Grand Lodge purchased a set of white velvet. goldtrimmed aprons and collars for use by the Grand Lodge Officers in their
various functions and especially our Annual Communication. The
regalia previously used for the Annual Comm unication was used as
traveling regalia._ With repeated packing, shipping and use, both sets
of regalia have become disreputable and are now held only for emergencies. Last year a set of blue and gold aprons and collars, which have
now become the " traveling set," was purchased and, although they are
still in excellent condition, time will soon begin to take its toll. A second
set was purchased, therefore, and will be held in reserve for special uses
only. We are wearing them for the first time during this Communication.
In their turn they will become our ''traveling set" and subsequently
relegated to non-use.
A gold jewel has been made this year for the Grand Chaplain. This
makes a total of eight Grand Lodge Officers jewels now completed.
Gold for the Grand Lodge jewels has been gradually accumulated from
gifts of old rings, etc. received from residents of the Masonic Homes
and. from others. As time progresses we hope to accumulate enough to
complete the set for each of the Officers of Grand Lodge.
OFFICE OF SERVICE

We have considered the basic purpose of our office to be that of
service to our constituent Lodges and their members. With that in mind
we are continuously aware of any techniques which might make o ur

39

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

operations more economical and efficient. During the last two years
certain improvements and internal changes have been made in our
accounting procedures. We have installed modern bookkeeping machine
equipment, employed qualified personnel in this department, and have
made internal record keeping changes which we feel will produce direct,
as well as indirect, long range benefits to our constituent Lodges. These
changes have been accomplished within budgetary limits voted by this
Grand Lodge.
A recent survey and clean-up of the membership records of our
nearly 250,000 members has been completed and, as a result of the
splendid assistance of the Secretaries of the constituent Lodges, we feel
that the membership records of both this office and the individual Lodg es
are currently in splendid condition.

White. membership; and Brother Oscar Norman , supplies and mailing.
In anticipation of these retirements, internal adjustments were made to
maintain office efficiency and service to the Lodges.

38

GRAND LODGE PERSONNEL HISTORY

Combined with the recent survey and clean-up of the membership
records an effort is being made to establish a complete file on membership of this Grand Lodge. A discussion of this program with our Grand
Master, Deputy Grand Master, a nd the two Grand Wardens brought
immediate and complete endorsement for the program. It is contemplated, as soon a s cards can be printed after the close of this Annual
Communication , they will be placed in the hands of the Master of each
Lodge with the request that he deliver cards to each of his Wardens
and to each Past Master. It is the sincere hope of our elected Grand
Lodge Officers that each member of Grand Lodge will furnish the information requested and return the card in the self-addressed postage paid
envelope provided for that purpose.
This information of personnel history should prove invaluable to the
incoming Grand M aster when he considers committee and line appointments. A s names are suggested to him through the usual sources he will
have at his finger tips certain basic information on every member of
Grand Lodge. The information will be kept current by having the Junior
W a rden, after his election and installation , complete a personnel history
card.
The program is introduced a t this session to alert members of Grand
Lodge to the purpose of the program and to solicit your complete
cooperation.
STAFF CHANGES

During the last fiscal year the office staff was shocked and saddened
by the sudden dea th of one of our bookkeepers, Mrs. Catherine Spink.
Stricken while a ttending Sunday church services, death came before the
doctor could reach her side.
Also during the year three of our men employees reached retirement
age. They were Brother H a rry H a nson, bookkeeper; Brother Alex

CALIFORNIA FREEM ASON

A challenge was given to this office as a result of the decision at the
last Annual Communication that this magazine be distributed to every
California Master Mason of the jurisdiction. W e were again gratified
by the support of the Secretaries in their extra effort to make this distribution effective. An operating program for the magazine's distribution
is now functioning. With the continued assistance of each member, and
of the Secretaries of the Lodges, every California Master Mason should
continue to receive quarterly his copy of the California Freemason.
SECRETARIES Assoc1AT10Ns

Representatives from this office have continued to meet at periodic
intervals with the numerous voluntary Secretaries Associations throughout the State. At least one of these groups is over fifty years of age.
Thjs effective area of liaison between our office and the con stituent
Lodge Secretaries. particu larly with respect to those functions pertaining
to the operation of the secretarial job, has proven of value both to the
constituent Lodges and to this office. Masters, W a rdens and Inspectors
are always welcomed at these association meetings. There are presently
four such associations in Southern California which meet at quarterly
intervals and one which meets annually. In Northern California there
are four such association groups, two of which meet on a quarterly basis,
one biannually and one annually.
With the multiplicity of forms, notices, reports, etc. which each
Secretary is required to complete, we feel that an effective area of service is advanced by these contacts. It is our conviction, based on actual
practice, that where we have Secreta ries Association meetings that are
well attended, correspondence between this office and the Lodges in the
area is reduced to a minimum.
W e welcome invitations from other areas in which Secretaries Associations have not been formed to make visitations to assist in organizing
such groups a nd to discu ss w ith the Lodge representatives those a reas
of Lodge operation in which we are best q ualified and in which we may
be of most service.
CONCLUSION

This concludes my fifth year as your Grand Secretary. It has been
a rare privilege to give full a nd loyal support to each Grand M aster
during that period. Each Gra nd Master has been different in his per~
sonal approach to the problems of this Grand Lodge. To have experienced their leadership first ha nd in such close rela tionship with each
of them has been a ~reat factor in effecting the procedural cha nges in
the Grand Secretary s Office. They have a ll been understanding. patient
and considerate. For the entire staff, we express our sincere thanks.

40

GRAND LODGE OP CA LIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

As our Masonic pace seems to increase each year, a word of appreciation goes to all those with whom we are privileged to work : Masters ,
Secretaries, Inspectors, Committeemen and Grand Lodge Officers. All
strengthen the sense of satisfaction in serving 709 Lodges. To our entire
staff for their complete and loyal devotion to duty, my grateful thanks
and appreciation.

Grand Secretary

Referred to Committee on Distribution.
EXHIBIT A
DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that {bred by law: Mountain
Shade No. 18; Franklin No. 143; Petaluma No. 180; San Simeon No.
196; Speranza ltaliana No. 219; Janesville No. 232; Penrhyn No. 258;
Fraternity No. 399; Coronado No. 441; Capital City No. 499; Argonne
No. 514; South Park No. 563 ; Military Service No. 570; Tujunga
No. 592; Travelers No. 692; Palm Springs No. 693; Rosemead No. 702:
Westchester No. 703; Lake Tahoe No. 707; San Ramon V alley No.
724; Ashland No. 798; Clairemont Mesa No. 799.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Service No. 594; Merced
No. 749.
To receive and act upon the application for Degrees without reference to committee: Sisson No. 310.
To receive and act upon the application f or Degrees presented by
a rejected Candidate within less than twelve months: none.
To open Lodge elsewhere than the regular meeting place: Clear
Lake No. 183; Los Banos No. 312; Charity N o. 362; La Puente N o.
446; Catalina Island N o. 524; Arcadia No. 547; Ka uai No. 589:
Neptune No. 619; Truth No. 628; Riviera No. 780: Sierra No. 788.
Special permission for conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite No. 17;
Fullerton No. 339; Burbank No. 406; Inglewood No. 421: Fairmount
No. 435; San Gabriel No. 546; Triangle No. 548: Truth Nn. 628: Palisades No. 637; La Brea No. 650; Liberal Arts No. 677; San Antonio
No. 694; Anacapa No. 710; Magnolia Park No. 715; Plaza de Los
Angeles No. 814.
Miscellaneous: Howard No. 37; Crossroads No. 696.

41

L IPE MEMBERSHIP

Increasing fee: Clay No. 101, to $500.00 : South Pasadena No. 367,
to $375.00: Wilshire No. 445, to $450.00; Golden W est No. 455 , to
$375.00: Glendale No. 544. to $375.00: Park Boulevard No. 568, to
$420.00; The Gardens No. 621 , to $375.00; F airview No. 629, to
$i37.50: El Cerrito N o. 705, to $425.00.
Fixing fee: Madison No. 23 , at $325.00; South W est No. 283, at

$335.00.
The Committee on Jurisprudence has reviewed the special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the past year and resolutions relative to life memberships.
We feel that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of our law. We
recommend that the special dispensations and life membership resolutions above referred to be approved.
Adopted.
EXHIBIT B
AM ENDMENT TO BY-Ll\WS

Increasing fee: V acaville No. 134, to $115.00; Clear Lake No. 183.
to $115.00; Lodi No. 256, to $75.00; Monrovia No. 308, to $120.00:
Pacific Grove No. 331, to $105.00; Fortitude No. 624, to $100.00;
Laguna Beach No. 672 . to $100.00; Rosemead No. 702 , to $100.00.
Revising fees for each degree: C rockett No. 139.
Decreasing fees: W ilshire No. 445, to $ 100.00.
F ixing affiliation fee : Crockett No. 139, at $25.00: Speranza ltaliana
No. 219, at $ 10.00; Mount Oso No. 460, at $1.00; Larchmont No. 614.
at $5.00.
Decreasing affiliation f ee: Elysian N o. 418 . to $5.00.
Rescinding affiliation f ee: Mendocino No. 179; Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371; T aft No. 516; Sunrise No. 522: East San Diego No.
561: Guardian No. 596.
Increasing dues: San Jose No. 10. to $18.00; Union No. 58, to $20.00;
Clay No. 101 , to $16.00; Vacaville No. 134, to $24 .00; Santa Barbara
No. 192, to $18.00; Magnolia No. 242. to $ 18.00; Orange Grove No.
293, to $18.00; Traver No. 294, to $20.00; Monrovia No. 308, to $25.00;
Temescal No. 314, to $20.00; Pacific Grove No. 331. to $20.00: Sequoia
No. 349, to $24.00; Ocean Park No. 369, to $18.00; Artesia No. 377,
to $18.00; Glendora No. 404, to $40.00; Burbank No. 406, to $25.00;
La Mesa N o. 407, to $20.00; Maricopa No. 434 , to $20.00; Wilshire
No. 445. to $18.00: La Puente No. 416, to $20.00; Golden West No.
i55, to $18.00; Henry S. Orme No. 458, to $18.00; Center No. 465, to
$20.00; Bell No. 483, to $18.00; Garvanza No. 492. to $18.00; Lebanon
No. 495, to $24.00: Sunnyvale No. 511, to $25.00; T aft No. 516. to
$20.00; Ionic No. 520. to $25.00; Bellflower No. 523, to $21.00: Bay

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

City No. 526, to $21.00; Glendale N o. 544, to $18.00; Queen Beach
No. 540. to $18.00; Arcadia No. 547, to $24.00; Searchlight No. 567,
to $20.00; Park Boulevard No. 568. to $18.00; Francis K. Shattuck No.
571. to $18.00; Warren G. Harding No. 579, to $15.00; El Sereno No.
588. to $18.00; Glassell Park No. 605, to $18.00; Elmhurst No. 61 O. to
$20.00; Three Pillars No. 613, to $18.00; Larchmont N o. 614, to $18.00:
R. E. Dolley No. 616, to $20.00; Truth No. 628, to $21.00; Fairview
N o. 629. to $21.00; Jordan No. 654. to $18.00; Baldwin Park No. 660,
to $20.00; Altadena No. 678, to $18.00; Canby Cross No. 679, to $20.00;
Barstow No. 682. to $24.00; Santa Ynez: Valley No. 701, to $24.00;
Rosemead No. 702, to $18.00; Westchester No. 703, to $24.00; El Cerrito No. 705 to $20.00; Magnolia Park No. 715, to $21.00; Wayfarer
No. 717, to $20.00; Centennial No. 729, to $21.00; Golden Empire No.
733, to $18.00; El Rancho No. 759, to $21.00; Heritage No. 764 , to
$20.00; Tyre No. 741, to $18.00: Clayton Valley No. 756. to $24.00:
West Covina No. 758. to $24.00; Zenith No. 768, to $20.00; Rio Linda
No. 786. to $20.00; Oak Plains No. 789. to $18.00; General Henry H .
Arnold No. 791 , to $15.00; Ashland No. 798. to $18.00: Manhattan
No. 817, to $24.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Ophir No. 33; Loyalton No. 359:
Charity No. 362; Amity-Seal Rock No. 370; Alta Vista No. 464:
Military Service No. 570; James Madison No. 572; M eridian No. 667;
Carmel No. 680; Lakewood No. 728; Tila Pass N o. 797; Clairemont
Mesa No. 799.
Provision for legal holidays: Maui No. 472; Heritage No. 764.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Pentalpha No. 202: San Francisco-Victory No. 360; Eagle Rock No. 422; Claremont No. 436: La
Puente No. 446; Larchmont No. 614; El Cerrito No. 705: Five Points
No. 779.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Georgetown No. 25; Golden Gate
N o. 30; San Diego No. 35; Forbestown No. 50; ll1inoistown N o. 51 ;
Natoma No. 64; Humboldt No. 79; Naval No. 87; Lexington No. 104;
Arcata No. 106; Woodbridge No. 131; Crockett No. 139; Excelsior
No. 166; Keith No. 187; Silveyville No. 201; Stanislaus No. 206;
Anaheim No. 207; San Buenaventura No. 214; Monterey No. 217;
Bakersfield No. 224; San Mateo N o. 226; M agnolia N o. 242; Alcatraz:
No. 244; Landmark No. 253; Welcome No. 255; Evergreen No. 259;
Olive Branch No. 269; Mount Jackson No. 295; Ontario N o. 301;
Azusa No. 305; Santa Monica No. 307; Delano No. 309; Tehachapi No. 313; Alisal No. 321; Long Beach No. 327; Starr King
No. 344; McKinley No. 347; San Bernardino No. 348; Pinole No. 353:
Mill Valley No. 356; Charity N o. 362: Willits No. 365; West Los
Angeles No. 373; Huntington Beach No. 380; University No. 391;
Yerba Buena No. 403; La Mesa No. 407; Charter Rock No. 410; Clovis

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43

No. 417: Midway No. 426; Standard No. 440; Mount Diablo No. 448;
Park No. 449; Argonne No. 514; Belvedere No. 539; Warren G. Harding No. 579; Security No. 581: Manchester No. 585; Hemet No. 615;
Point Loma No. 620; Redwood Empire No. 683; Gateway U .D.
Charity Provision: Hesperian No. 264; Huntington Beach No. 380;
Kerman No. 420; La Puente No. 446; Progressive N o. 578; Temple
City No. 612.
RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: San Diego No. 35; Santa Rosa No. 57;
Clear Lake N o. 183; South San Francisco N o. 212; Ontario No. 301;
Whittier No. 323; Unity No. 368; Amity-Seal Rock No. 370; Blackmer
No. 442 ; Carpinteria No. 444; Park No. 449; Alta Vista No. 464;
Coachella No. 476; East Bay No. 489; Arcadia No. 547; South Park
No. 563; Military Service N o. 570; James Madison No. 572; S. W.
Hackett No. 574; Truth No. 628; Alta Loma No. 613; Baldwin Park
No. 660; Barstow No. 682; Crossroads No. 696: H ome No. 721; Verdugo Hills No. 727; Lakewood No. 728; Oasis of Mara No. 735; Luther
Burbank No. 752; West Covina No. 758; Riviera No. 780; Sierra No.
788; Clairemont Mesa No. 799; Mount Baldy No. 815.
(NOTE: See Report of Committee on By-Laws for action taken.)

EXHIBIT C
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1052-Petition for restoration. A member of H enry S. Orme Lodge
No. 458. Expelled February 1, 1945.
No. 1469-Petition for restoration. A member of Mount Olive Lodge
No.506. Expelled October 5, 1955.
No. 1554- Petition for restoration. A member of Mendocino Lodge
No. 179. Expelled October 13, 1962.
member of Standard Lodge No. 440. Suspended August 1,
1598-A
No.
1958. Restored by Lodge March 5, 1965.
No. 1637-Petition for restoration. A member of Inglewood Lodge No.
121. Expelled July 1, 1959.
No. 1649-Petition for restoration. A member of Sequoia Lodge No.
319. Expelled October 6, 1959.
No. 1652-Petition for restoration. A member of The Gardens Lodge
No. 621. Expelled November i , 1959.
No. 1670-A member of Torrance Lodge No. 147. Suspended September 27, 1960. Restored by Lodge May 7, 1965.
No. 1675-Petition for restoration. A member of Garvanza Lodge No.
492. Suspended M ay 3, 1960.
No. 1703-Petition for restoration. A member of Monte Vista Lodge
No. 655 . Expelled March 6, 1961.
No. 1753-A member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Suspended
November 7, 1961. Restored by Lodge February 2. 1965.

PROCEED INGS OP THE

No. 1754-Pe tition for restoration. A member of Inglewood Lodge
No. 421. Expelled July 11. 1962.
No. 1755-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Suspend ed July 11,
1962. Restored by Lodge Novemb er 4. 1964.
No. 1770-A member of Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691. Suspended February 7, 1962. Restored by Lodge July 7. 1965.
No. 1776-A member of S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574. Suspend ed
Novemb er 6, 1962. Restored by Lodge April 6, 1965.
No. 1816-A member of Rim of the World Lodge No. 711 (Re-tria l).
Expelled February 3, I 965.
No. 1819- A member of Liberty Lodge No. 299. Expelled November 1,
1963; remanded to Lodge for proper proceedings by Grand
Lodge. 1964. Accused deceased March 15. 1964.
No. 1842- A member of San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214. Suspend ed
October 6. 1964.
No. 1843--A member of Hesperia n Lodge No. 264. Expelled December
7, 1964.
No. 1844-A member of La Mesa Lodge No. 407. Expelled December
7, 1964.
No. 1845-A member of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Expelled December
3, 1964.
No. 1846-A member of Ophir Lodge No. 33. Expelled January 9. 1965.
No. 1847-A member of Berkeley Lodge No. 363. Expelled January 7,
1965.
No. 1848-A member of Olive Branch Lodge No. 269. Expelled January
5. 1965.
No. 1849-A member of Ma nchester Lodge No. 585. Expelled November 3, 1964.
No . 1850---An Entered Apprentice of Palestine Lodge No. 351. Expelled February 1, 1965.
No. 1851-A member of Palisades Lodge No. 637. Suspend ed December I , 1964.
No. 1852- A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Suspended January
7, 1965.
No. 1853-A member of San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668. Expelled March
1. 1965.
No. 1854-A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expelled March 2,
1965.
No. 1855-A member of Amity-S eal Rock Lodge No. 370. Expelled
April 6. 1965.
No. 1856-A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598. Expelled April
7, 1965.
No. 1857-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Acquitte d February 1, 1965.
No. 1858-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Acquitte d February 1, 1965.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN IA

45

No. 1859-A member of Traver Lodge No. 294 . Suspend ed April 7,
1965.
No. 1860---A member of Liberty Lodge No. 299. Suspend ed April 2.
1965.
No. 1861-A member of Hesperia n Lodge No. 264. Reprimanded April
5, 1965.
No. 1862-A member of Capital City Lodge No. 499. Expelled May
7, 1965.
No. 1863-A member of San Francisc o-Victor y Lodge No. 360. Expelled May 5, 1965.
No. 1864-A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Expelled May 5,
1965.
No. 1865-A member of Rio Vista Lodge No. 208. Expelled May 4,
1965.
No. 1866-A member of Morning Star Lodge No. 68 . Expelled May 6,
1965.
No. 1867-A member of San Fernand o Lodge No. 343. Suspend ed
May 6, 1965.
No. 1868-A member of Oxnard Lodge No. 341 . Expelled June 2, 1965.
No. 1869-A member of Kit Carson Lodge No. 734. Expelled April 7,
1965.
No. 1870---A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529. Suspend ed June I,
1965.
No. 1871-A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529. Suspend ed June 1,
1965.
No. 1872-A member of Canoga Lodge No. 611. Expelled July 2, 1965.
No. 1873-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139. Expelled July 7, 1965.
No. 1874-A member of Queen Beach Lodge No. 540. Expelled August
3, 1965.
No. 1875-A member of Moneta Lodge No. 405. Expelled August 5,
1965.
No. 1876-A member of Barstow Lodge No. 682. Expelled August 6,
1965.
No. 1877-A member of Van Nuys Lodge No. 450. Expelled August 3,
1965.
No. 1878-A member of Rosemead Lodge No. 702. Expelled April 6,
1965.
No. 1879-A member of Unity Lodge No. 368. Expelled September 7,
1965.

(NOTE: See Report of Committee on Grievances for action taken.)

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT D
REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
Issued September 1, 1964 through September 1, 1965 ( 752)
Total Issued to D ate, 9971
NAM E AKO LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Abrahamson, Albert (120) ............ 11-21-14
Aced, Manuel James ( 44) ............ 10-27- 14
Ackerly, Orville B .. Jr. (521) ...... 9- 2- H
Ady, Oscar H . (389) .................... 8-12-14
Ahler, Geor9WW. (306) .............. 1-28- 15
Aljets, John
. (188) .................. 10-31-H
Allen, William E. (567) .............. 5-21-12
Alspach. Glenn L. (701) ................ 10-20- 14
Alsup, Frederick F. (21) .............. 6-21-10
Alter, Cha rles H. (216) ................ 11-20-13
Andersen, James (205) .................. 1-27-15
Anderson, Charles A. ( 103) ........ 12- 10- 11
Anderson, Frederick ( 355) .......... 11- 12- 11
Anderson, Herman F. ( 449) ........ 1-21- 15
Archambault, Cli !ford ( 188) ........ 9-19-14
Arentz, Luther H. (388) .............. 1-26-15
Armitage, Ralph W. (192) .......... 10-22-13
Armstrong , Walter G. (393) ........ 11-30- 14
Arnold, Pliny M. (563) ................ 6-15-15
Aron, A. Leslie (311 ) .................... 11 -25- 14
Arthur, Charles L. (367) .............. 1-16-12
Axelson, Jule C. (378) .................. 10-10-14
Babb. Jerrell C. (713) .................... 9-10-14
Bacon, Albert S., Jr. ( 479) .......... 6-16- 15
Bacon. P aul B. ( 566) .................... 5-30-10
Baer, Markell C. (569) .................. 1-23-15
Bailey. Harry M . (290) ................ 6-13-14
Bailey, Robert W. (192) .............. 10- 15- 14
Baker, George P. (38) .................. 2- 3-15
Baker. Norman (327) .................... 4-22-15
Baldwin, William P. (206) .......... 8-13-H
Barlow, Wilfred (649) .................. 9- 3-11
Barrett, Frederick (109) ................ 4- 6-15
Bartlett, Goedecke M. (300) ........ 1-19- 15
Barton, Chester H. (37) ................ 10- 1-11
Barton, Robert J. (611) ................ 12- 3-11
Bauer, Louis H. (638) .................. 5-26-15
Beall, Ernest B. (236) .................. 5- 3- 15
Bean. Alton L. ( 358) ................... 5-20-15
Bean, MorganG. (59) .................. 7-17-15
Beck, Frank R. (336) .................... 11-21-11
Beesmyer, Clarence S. (355) ........ 12- 17- H
Belden, Charles L. (296) .............. 5-15- 14
Bell. Fredrick T. ( 278) ................ 1- 13- 15
Bellman. Frank C. (332) .............. 3- 6-13
Bendle. Robert S. (349) ................ 1 -20- 15
Benjamin, Isaac B. (623) .............. 1-3 1- 13
Bennett, Okey L. (256) ................ 3- 18- 15
Bennie, William A. (217) ............ 10-30-14
Benninger, John A. (37) ................ 6-18-15
Bense. Frederick ( 545) .................. 1-30-15
Benton. Fred N. (746) .................. 9- 2-14
Benson, Frank A. (409) ................ 6- 8-15
Berndt, Carl A. N. (11) ................ 11-1 1-11

N/\ME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Beyrle, Thomas T. (290) .............. 12-28-11
Biffar, Jame s ( 149) ........................ 6-15-14
Bindewald. Godfrey ( 685) ............ 12- 11 -14
Black, Andrew R. ( 110) ................ 11- 5-14
Blackard. Luther H. (373) ............ 8-20-15
Blaich, Robert W. (226) .............. 5-27-15
Bliss. John J. A. ( 220) .................. 6-20- H
Blois,MiltonL. (10) ...................... 1-1 8-15
Bloter. Homer C.. Sr. (134) .......... 3- 9-15
Bond,BcnjaminH. (2 1) ................ 11-25-13
Bondeson. John A. (365) .............. 3-17-15
Bourne. John P. (16) .................... 1-11- 15
Bowen. Ma rshall R. ( 323 ) ............ 3-27-14
Bowles, Samuel 0 . (215) .............. 7-23-1 4
Boyd. C arlton W. (245) .............. 8-24-11
Boyd, John W. (564) .................... 10- 7-14
Boye. Erik A. (316) ...................... 1- 4- 15
Brashear, James L. (365) ............ .. 9-18- 12
Braun, Herman J. ( 120) ................ 10- 8-14
Breer, Carl ( 415) .......................... 1-24-12
Breithaupt. Max (127) .................. 8-31-14
Bridges. Charles H. (149) ............ 7- 3-1 5
Brahm, Henry G. ( 367) ................ 6- 6-14
Brown, Charles A. (435) .............. 1-26- 15
Brown, Forrest E. (349) .............. 9-29- 14
Brown. Joseph G. ( 307) ................ 7-21-08
Broxho lme. Robert J. (422) .......... 11 -10- 11
Bruce, William G. (388) .............. 10-27-11
Bryan, Ra lph W. (40) .................. 3-15-15
Bryant, O scar M. ( 367) ................ 12-15-0i
Bucklin, George F. (381) .............. 11-30-11
Bullwinkel. Clarence A. ( 449) .... 10-28-14
Bur11e. V ernon L. (142) ................ 6- 7- 15
Bur11cr, William L. (652) ............ 10-23- 14
Bur11ess. Malcolm S. ( 129) .......... 10- 2-1 1
Burr. John E. (355) ...................... 3- 9- 15
Burrows, Harry ( 361) .................. 4-10-15
Bursik, Joseph A. (349) ............... 7-22-15
Burtchaell. Clarence S. (6 1) ... .... 8-28-11
Butcher. Glrn (469) ...................... 11 -28- 11
Butler, Guy W. (64) .................... 11-12-11
C allisch. Frank L. ( 10) ................ 8- 5- 15
Callow, George H. (590) .............. 8-29-08
Camp, Orrin B. (246) .................... 7-27-95
Campbell, John C. (322) .............. 7- 2- 15
Camplin, Arthur (180) .................. 11- 21-12
Carey, Robert B. (339) ................ 6-22-07
Carmich<icl, William (317) .......... 2-22-10
Carson, Jo hn (114) ........................ 7-12-15
Cavalli, George. Sr. ( 140) ............ 12-28-11
Chandler, Haven B. (233) ............ 1- 16-15
Cherry. W alter S. (582) .............. 2- 9-09
Chiha, Andnw H . (511) .............. 8-30-13
Chisholm, William A. (211) ........ 3- 18- 15

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Christensen, Charles (480) .......... 3- 8-15
Cinnamond, Thomas (554) .......... 11-14-11
Clark, Charles C. (533 ) ................ 12-15-14
Clark, William L. ( 16) .................. 6-21- 15
Clausen. Ervin H. (478) .............. 12-1 7- 14
Clawson, C laud B. (265) .............. 2-16-15
Clement, John V. (38) .................. 5-18-14
Col:)b,MiloR. (379 ) ...................... 3-11-15
Colling. Claude M. (40) ................ 11 -25-14
Cohen. Moses L. (336 ) .................. 8-26-15
Cohn, Louis J. (216 ) ...................... 3-22-15
Colburn. Clifford H. (124 ) .......... 4-20-12
Colby. Alvin P. (400) .................. 10-24-14
Connelly, Frank (767) .................. 8-25-08
Conner, Alden R. (24 1) ................ 7- 1-14
Connon, Francis W. (278) .......... 2-10-15
Conover, Layton S. ( 533) ... ......... 7-17-15
Cooke, Robert F. (27) ................. 10-30-14
Coward. Hume H ay (220) ............ 5-2 1- 15
Craig, Robert S. ( 206) .................. 10-22-11
Crall. Henry C. (292 ) ................. 4-15-15
Cravath. Albert B. ( 425) .............. 5- 8-15
Crawford, Errol W. ( 111 ) .......... 4-28- 15
Cross. Bert A. (290) ..................... 3-25-15
Cruikshank, John A. (322) .......... 2- 1- 15
Crump. Guy R. ( 367) ................. .. 10-16-13
Cunningham, Allan B. (9) ............ 9-29-14
Cunningham, Clarence E. (332) .. 10-15-11
Davies, Fred J. (335 ) ................April 1915
Davis, Clyde L. (6 12) .................. 10- 9-14
Davis, Oron 0 .. Sr. (394) ............12-28-11
Dawe, Herbert B. (478) ................ 7-22-15
Day, Harry C. ( 195) ................... 10-10-14
Degen, Clarence F. (7 12l ............ 10-12-14
Detrick, Wallace L. (327 ............ 1-20-15
Devine, Mathew (.434 ) .................. 7-10-14
Dickey, John H. (272) .................. 6-19-11
Dickson, George L. (568) ............ 3-26-14
Diggs, John T. (370) .................... 10-30-14
Disano, Joseph C. ( 222) ................ 8- 9- 14
Docker, Frederick W. (530) ........ 11-30-05
Dodge, George S. (45 1) .............. 3-31-15
Dodge, John F. (382) .................... 7-23- 14
Donnelly, Charles E. (41 8) .......... 12-10-14
Donnolly, Robert M. (363 ) .......... 9-24-11
Dowker, George 0. (451 ) ............ 11- 6-14
Dowling, PaulJ. (752) .................. 10-19-11
Driscoll, Bert C . ( 335) ........... ....... 8-27- 14
Duden, R~ inal d ( 449 ) ..... .......... 12-1 8-14
&iunkley, arold (246) ................ 10-20- 14
F.a an, Frank (392) ....................... 2- 8-15
der, John H. (380) .................... 2- 18-14
Eddy, Nathaniel N. (349) ............ 10-12-14
Edwards, Alexander (559) .......... 10- 9-11
Egleston, William G., Sr. (349) .. 8-25-14
~hler, Karl (414) ........................ 9-24-14
E gler, Richard E. (587) .............. 6-19-15
pstein, Harry { 136) .................... 12-29- 14
Erichsen, W illiam E. J. (632) ...... 3-12- 15
Eridkson, Clarence E. (57) .......... 2-24-15
E
u ey, Mark (388) ........................ 3-27-15
E uphrat, Maurice L. (344) .......... 10-31- 11

NAME AND LODGE NO.

47
DATE OP R/\ISING

Eva ns. Robert H. (61) .................. 6-25-15
Everett, Harry D. (253) .............. 3-27-15
Everett, John C. (20l .................... 5-27-15
Falk. Frank E. (100 .................... 10-17-14
Farlin, Girard N . (202) ................ 3-23-15
Farmer, Fred H . (580) .................. 12- 7-11
Fawcett. Harry G ier (3 12) .......... 12-26-11
Featherin11ill, Walter (35 ) ............ 3-27-15
Fenley, Everett W. ( 195 ) ............ 10- 3-14
Fenton, Alfred (216) .................... 11-23-11
Ficklin. Walter C. (420) .............. 6-25-15
Fillbach, Grover C. (106) ............ 6-12-15
Finkler, Frederick A. (603) .......... 6-25- 15
Fisher, Charles R. (256 ) .............. 8-13-11
Foote, Frank J. (1 35) .................... 5-18-15
Forbes. Walter D . (61) ................ 6-25-15
Fomker, Jesse L. (277) .................. 10-19-14
Forsdlad, Gust A . ( 309) ................ 6- 3-1 5
Forth, Leo G. (106) ...................... 11-23-1 4
Foster, Lewis E. (637) .................. 1-1 3-1 1
Fraser, Dexter ( 21) ...................... 12-23-11
F reidel!. Hugh F. ( 192) .............. 8-14-14
Fritsch, Kurt E. (346) .................. 3- 23- 15
Frizzell, Rex R. (324 ) ............. ..... 9-10-06
Furslew, Max (70 1) ...................... 4-30-07
Gainsboro, Herman A. (674 ) ...... 3- 19- 15
Gardner. William E. (259) .......... 9- 9-13
Garland, Robert W. ( 351) ............ 3-30-11
Garner, Charles J. (150) .............. 12- 8-1 4
Gay, William W . (21 5) .............. 11-19-11
Ghisolfo. John B. (233) ............. ... 2-27-15
Gilbert, John K. (178) .................. 8-31 - 14
Gillard. James H . (363) ................ 11-26-1 4
Gillen. Albert A. (652) .................. 2-23- 15
Gilson. Cecil R. E. (627) .............. 9-11-14
Gimme!. Henry L. (169) .............. 8-26-1 4
Glindemann, Melvern T. (388 ) .... 8- 3- 15
Goldman, Max (335) .................... 4-29-15
Goldman , Oscar G. (360 ) ............ 6-23-1 5
Goldsmith, Ellsworth D. (685) .... 6-15-15
Goodman, Eugene M . (358) ........ 9-24- H
Goody, Alfred H . (388) ................ 2- 2-15
Gould, Chauncey M. ( 180) .......... 3-11-15
Gould. George L. (363 ) ................ 10-22-14
Gowdy, Lloyd A. (604) ................ 4- 1- 11
Grader, Irvin L. (494) .................. 10-16- 14
Gracier, Warren W. (194 ) .......... 3- 19-15
Granas. Harry D. (3 19) ................ 1-26-15
Grant. Stanley R. (358) ................ 1-28-15
Greenberg , Morris (674) .............. 4- 15-15
Greenbaum, Felix ( 401) ................ 6-10-15
Greenstein, Harry (623) .............. 8-15-11
Grinstead, Allen R. ( 14) .............. 3- 3- 15
Grua, O tto T . (367) ...................... 10-26-13
Gutleben, Daniel (149) ................ 11 -25- 14
Haas, Rudolph T. (375) .............. 11-23-11
Ha hn. Charles H. (319) .............. 10- 31-11
Hall. A. Juillard (384) .................. 1-19-15
Hall, Raymond E. (366) .............. 8-29-14
Hallberg, Edward B. (2 1) ............ 10-21-14
Halsall. Arthur C. (488 ) .............. 5- 13- 11
Hamblen, William T. (178) ........ 7-14-13

48
NAME ANO LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DATE OF RAISING

NAME J\ND LODGE! NO.

DATE! OF RAISING

Hamel, George H. (228) .............. 12-12-14 Hutchinson, George R. (454 ) .... Unknown
Hutton, William K. (218) ............ 2- 9-15
Hamer, CyrilT. (321) .................. 8- 7-14
H amilton, Irving W. (667) .......... 1- 3-14 Ingersoll, William L. (391) .......... 5- 5-09
H andy. George P. (391) .............. 11-28-14 Inglis, John P. (317) ...................... 3-24-03
Hanekamp, Harry G. (139) ........ 7-18- 14 Ireland, Harry N. P. (358) .......... 9-21-14
H ansen, Henry J. (625) ................ 10-27-14 Jackson, Dean W. D. (491) ........ 7- 1-15
Hansen, Walter J. (379) .............. 6-25-15 Jackson, Frederick E. (579) ..August 1910
Harden, Clarence D. {296) .......... 3-26-15 Jacobs, Oscar E. ( 141) .................. 4-17-14
Harden, Robert H. (605) .............. 3-16-15 Jacobs, Peter G. (208) .................. 5-26-15
Hardgrave, John A. ( 132) ............ 11-30- 10 Jacobsen, Andrew (336) ................ 5-17-13
Harlow, Ralph N. (558) .............. 1-28-15 Jago, H erbert E. (317) .................. 6-30-13
H arnish. Glen C. (334) ................ 8-29-H Jansen, Walter Kay (32) .............. 5-22-15
Jenkins. Wesley R. (38) .............. 5-11-15
H arper, Deliph R. (169) .............. 11-29-11
H arris, William L. {641) .............. 7- 8-15 Jernigan, Sam (505) ...................... 12- 11-06
Jessamine, William J. (678) ........ 4-20-15
Harry, Charles E. (367) .............. 5-23-14
Hart, F rederick P. (37) ................ 7-28-15 Jesson, Lee N. (149) ...................... 1-27-15
Har tzell. Robert R. (84) ................ 6- 6-15 Joanis, Frank D. (406) .................. 12- 2-10
Harvison, Hale H. (319) .............. 3- 9-15 Johnson, Charles H., Sr. (318) ....11-30-14
H askell. Greenleaf A. (571) ........ 6-12-06 Johnson, Daniel B. {378) .............. 6-29-14
H aster, Richard (586 ) .................. 4-12-13 Johnson, Earle B. ( 365) ................ 5-22-15
Hastings, Veinon P. (126) ............ 12- 3-14 Johnson. Edward C. (9) .............. 12-16-14
Hauck. Fred L. {358) .................... 9-24-14 Johnson, John B. (13) .................... 11 -21-14
Ha ys, Ray W. (366 ) .................... 12-19-14 Johnson, Merwin 0 . (450) ............ 5-21-14
Heicher, Merlo K. W. (678) ........ 3-28-05 Johnson, Ray D . ( 687) .................. 9-30-14
Heldt, George W. {6 11 ) .............. 3-26-15 Johnson, Verne E. ( 178) .............. 3-23-14
Henderson, Francis D. (300) ........ 5-25-15 Johnston, Byron L. (13 1) .............. 1-20-15
H endrickson. Ed H. (224) ............ 7-22- 15 Johnstone, Carlos A. (162) .......... 2- 1-15
Hendrickson, Henry M. (314) .... 10-29-11 Jolls, Ne mo S. (283) ...................... 2- 8-15
Henricks, Samuel (98) .................. 5-13-05 Jones, David H. (417) .................. 6-20-14
Hermie, Leo D . ( 188) .................... 11-28- 14 Jones, Edward B. (445) ................ 6- 6-12
Herrmann, George A. (339 ) ........ 2-14-14 Jones, Thomas R. (367) ................ 8-27-13
Hickley, Leo M. (244) .................. 9-16-13 Jordan, Charles (391) .................... 7-30-14
H iggins. Edward A. (449) ............ 7-14-1 5 Jordan, John L. ( 470) .................... 5-21-15
Hillman, Judson M. {339) ............ 4- 5-13 Jorge:ison. Niel (247) .................... 7- 7-11
Hillman. Worth {528) .................. 4-1 0-15 Jucrgms. Walter J. (418) .............. 3-11-15
Katz, Philip C . (514) ................... .11-22-12
Hilp, Harry H. (136) .................... 5-26-14
Hilton, Walter W. (168) ............ 5- 1-15 Kelley. Dixon W. (662) .............. 11-18-11
Kendall, Guy E. (622) .................. 3-11-15
Himmelman, August W. (449) .... 4-23-15
Hinchman, Charles M. (435) ........ 3-19-15 Klnney,ClarenceB . ( 12) .............. 4-23-15
Hintermann, Charles A. (30) ........ 4-20- 15 Kittle, Walter F. (552) ........ .......... 2-23-09
Kitzman, Roy F. (272) ..................12-16-12
Hitchcock, James E. (339) ............ 7- 9-15
Hoeckele, Frank A. (435 ) ............ 6-29-15 Klahn, Walter H. (449) ................ 8-11-15
Kleaver. George C. (37 ) .............. 12-11-14
Hoefflin, Walter R. (445) ............ 3-22-15
H of, Lewis K. (547) ...................... 1-28-15 Kline, Ray F. (516) ...................... 4- 17-11
H ollingbery, Orin E. ( 1) .............. 2-25-15 Kline , Turner B. (620) ..................12- 2-14
Hollister, John H. (209) ................ 2- 8-05 Knight, Frederick A. (389) ..........11- 5-03
Holtslander. Frank M. (87) .......... 3- 1-15 Koehn. Oscar ( 139) ...................... 9-16-14
H ooper, Charles (360) .................. 5-24-15 Kopf. Benjamin F. (319) .............. 10-12-14
Horner, Alfred E. (330) ................ 7- 2-14 Korte. Rudolph J. (336) ................ 5-31-13
Horton, Ralph C. (719) ................ 1- 1- 15 Kosht. James P. (588) .................... 12-29-13
Hough, James V . (389) ................ 1-30-12 Krogstad, ~~ter M. (397) ............ 6- 9-15
Houston, Ralph G . ( 135 ) .............. 1-22-11 Krowl, Wilham V. (115) ............ 9-24-12
H owell, Alfred V. (210) .............. 6-26-14 Kusch, George 0 . (38) .................. 2- 2-15
Howlett, James W. (291) ............ 8- 6-11 LaBelle. Fred J. (61 ) ............................ 1909
Hoyt. James (202) ........................ 3-16- 15 Lais, William P. ( 40) .................... 11- 6-14
La Merce. Claude D. (320) .......... 2-24-12
Hughes, Charles T. (414~ ············ 3-19-14
Hughes, William C. (167 ............ 4- 6-14 Lamp, Clifford E. (336) ................ 7-10-15
Hultquist, Albert P. (397 ............ 11- 3-11 Landon. Wilford H . (186) ............ 11- 9-14
Hunt, ElmerL. (161) .................... 5-22-15 Lang, Louis A. ( 10) ...................... 5- 7-15
Hunt, Howard M. (236) .............. 5- 17-15 Langton, John M .. Tr. (351) .......... 9-28-14
Lank, Roy D. (392) ...................... 11-26-13
Hunt, Russell B. (236) .................. 5-24-15

NAME AND LODGE! NO.

OATI! OF RAISING

Lap0rte, Albert J. (661) ................ 5-14-15
Larsen. George F. (400) .............. 3-23-15
Lattin. Frank B. (322) .................. 4-24-11
Lawrence. HarryC. ( 122) ............ 8-28-15
Lawton. George M. (187) ............ 12- 1-14
Lee, Richard A. (32) .................... 8- 8-11
Lesser, Sol L. (628) ...................... 6- 8-11
Levison, Mark L. (216) ................ 11-16-14
Levy, Joseph (439 ) ........................ 12- 8-13
Levy, Marcel S. (470) .................. 5-20-15
Lewin, Edgar M. (136) ................ 7-14-14
Lewis, Howard W. (346 ) ............ 5-18-15
Lewis, Keith E. (259) .................... I- 7-15
Lewis, Stanley R. (445 ) ................ 3- 9-10
Llngenfelder, George J. (348) ...... 10-22-14
Lippman, Lazard H. (332 ) ............ 5-15-05
Lipscomb. Paul E. (622) .............. 2-27-13
Lochhead, Samuel (565) ...................... 1912
Lofgren. O!to J. (349) .................. 5-18-15
Logar, Louis A. (343) .................. 4-27-15
Long, Ernest F. (281i···············-.. 10- 3-14
Long, Harry A. (178 ..................10- 9-14
Loog, Joseph S . (259 .................. 11-20-14
Long, Walter J. (3) ...................... 6-28-15
Lorentz. Robert (22) ...................... 2-22- 15
Lubt, Stephen B. (449l .................. 1-28-15
Lund, George C. (559 .................. 1-25-14
Lynde, Albert W. (68 .................. 10-29-11
Lynde, Andrew P. (68) ................ 1- 15-15
Lynde, Lloyd C. (667) ................. .1 1- 17-09
McCann, Gilbert D . (237) ............ 3-29-13
McCarl. Lyman E. ( 358) .............. 12-23-11
McCartney, Curtis E. (192) ........ 1- 14-15
McCey. Warren (406) .................. 8-15-14
McCleer, Henry C. (I) ................ 1-21-15
McCleery, Walter L. (21) ............ 8-29-1 3
McClellan, James E. (322) ............ 2- 3-13
McDonald, William C. (363) ...... 1-28-15
McDulfee, Dana E. (521) ............ 12-12- 14
McGinniss, William R. ( 178) ...... 11-27-11
McGuire, Thomas ( 291 ) .............. 7-16-14
McHenry, Harvey A . (272 ) ........ 5-31-15
McManus, William D . ( 12) ........ 12-27-12
McNally, Clarence L. (478) ........ 6- 2-15
McPhail. Arthur R. (491) ............ 4-26-15
McQuade, Francis J. (109) .......... 6- 1-15
MacDonald. John D. (61) ............ 8-28- 14
Madsen, Charles E. (38) .............. 5-25-14
Ma11ness, Lawrence E. ( 565) .............. 1906
ttallling, /.ohn H. ( 290) ................ 9-19-14
Mallory, oscph L. (608) .............. 9-16-11
~Y·Jdseph D . ( 171 ) .............. 8- 8-08
Ma • ward P . (357) .............. 10- 8-14
M nning, Homer W. (435) .......... 8-21-15
Manning, Leo R. (104) ................ 1-27-12
Ma~s, Arthur M. (265) .............. 10-21-14
ar owit.z, Philip (244 ) .............. 8-19-15
M arriott, William 0. ( 16) ............ 12- 9- 14
ttarshall, Alexander H. (178) .... 9-21-14
Maartell, Arthur A. (396) .............. 1-26-15
rtens, William P. (317) .......... 7-16-15

NAME! J\NO LODGE! NO,

49
DAT E! OP RAISING

Mason, Ben A. (2) ........................1 0-20-14
Mason, Edgar E. (415) ................ 7-26-15
Mason, Rylands D. ( 319) ............ 10-31-14
Mason, Wallace A. (20) .............. 7-23-14
Matthews, John B. (521) .............. 6-19-14
Matzen, Nickels C. (180) ............ 3-1 0-15
Means, Thomas H . (268) ............1 0-31 -08
Meek, David B. (507) .................. 10-31-12
Meierdierks. George W. (22) ...... 11-23-14
Meyer, Andrew (41 0) .................. 3-21-15
Mikkelsen, Elmer E. (131 ) .......... 9-29-14
Miles, William P. (286). ............... 11-20- 14
Miller, Charles D. (43$) .............. 3-12-15
Miller, Foster F. (290) .................. 9-24-14
Miller, J. Nola (435) .................... 2- 9-15
Miller, Russell F . (194) ................ 10- 1-14
Mills, Robert L. (686) .................. 5- 26-15
Milne, MacBeth A. (5 18) ........... .1 0-14-14
Minedew, Harry A. (169) ............ 5-27-11
Mitchell, George M . (614) .......... 10-3 1-14
Mitchell, John S. (355) .................. 3-19-09
Mitchell, Leslie C. (211) .............. 1-17-13
Moeller, Henry G. ( 307) .............. 1-27-15
Mogle, Fred E. (290) .................... 9-19-14
Monton, Albert N. (513) .............. 3- 3-15
Moon, John E. (277) .................... 5-10- 14
Moore, Louis F. W. (503) .......... 4-1 5-15
Moore, Merle M. (317) ................ 5-20-15
Moose, Louis S. ( 120) .................. 7-29-15
Morgan, Albert H .. Jr. (168) ...... 11-29-09
Morgan, ~hn D., Jr. (465) .......... 1-10-14
Morgan, Orton J. (11 ) ................ 1-15-13
Morgan, Robert R. (57) ................ 11-21-14
Morris, Floyd (40) ........................10-20-14
Morrow, Archie F . ( 188).. ............ 5-29-15
Mortensen, Walter R. (224) ........ 3-15-15
Morton, Asa C. (273) .................. 7-27-14
Mosher, Edgar M. (394) .............. 5- 23-14
M oxon, Leslie A. ( 27) .................. 10- 3- 14
Mullendore. Floyd B. (483) ........ 6- 14-14
Mungall, Robert W. (207) .......... 4-11 -14
Munn, Stanley J. (383) ................ 11-19-14
Murbach, Herman F. (HO) .......... 3-29- 15
Murphy, Leland S. (295) .............. 4-11-15
Nahman. Hyman (120) ................ 10- 15-11
Nash, W illiam P. (128) ................ 7-28-15
Neil. S. H. (421) ............................ 3-19- 15
Neilson, Duncan S. (721) ............ 5-15-14
Neily, Roy A. (339) ..................... .1 0- 17- 14
Nelson, George (61) ...................... 4- 30-15
Nelson, George R. (48 1) .............. 6- 15- 14
Newell, Herbert H . (360) ............ 10-26-14
Newfleld, Louis K. (70 ) ................ 1- 18-15
Nichols, Carl (586) ........................ 4- 7-15
Nielson, Vig go E. ( 327) .............. I2-10- 11
Niles, Chester M. (251 ) ................ 1-28-15
Ninekirk, C hester P. (215) .......... 9-1 0- 14
Noerager, Philip J. (168) .............. 2-16-15
Norberg, Edwin G. (515) ............ 4-29-15
Norcross. Edgar D. (668) ............ 11-26-12
Norton. Harry D. (57) .................. 7-29-15

50

GRA ND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE
NAME AND LODGE NO.

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DAT E OP RAISI NG

Nourse. Paul (482) ....................May 1913
Nuno, John G. (379 ) .................... 9- 8-14
Nutt. Edmund B. (352) .. .............. 2-15-11
O'Connor, William S. ( 147) ........ 4-24-15
Oeschger, John L. (38 ) .................. 4-22-14
Olney, Owen E . (376) .................. 5- 7-15
Olson, Joseph A. (139) ................ 9- 2- 14
Oman, Henry (44) ........................ 10-21-14
Orth. Darrell W. ( 336) ................ 4-29-15
O sborn. Lawrence E. ( 187 ) .......... 9-16-14
O sgood, W endell J. (578) ............ 5-25- 15
Ostrander. W illis F. (403) .......... 3-25-15
O svald, Albert ( 578 ) .................... 7-13-15
Pace, G uy H. (403) ...................... 4- 8- 15
Parker, George E . (599) .............. 10- 8-14
Parks, WilliamM. (347) .............. 6-17-15
Parsons, John L. (272) ....... .......... 1-30-12
Pascoe. Henry J. (10) .................... 5-17- 15
Patchen, Raymond N . (685) ........ 11 -28-08
Patterson, Arthur L. (410 ) .......... 8-22-14
Patterson, Lawrence P. ( 178) .... .. 6-21-15
Pa ul, Charles E. (560) .................. 1- 1-15
Paxton. Brighton R. ( 199 ) ............ 4-11 - 14
Peabody, Walter E. (403) ............ 5- 13- 15
Peacock. Rolland R. (608 ) ............ 3- 1-06
Pearsall.R<J.PhaV. (327) .............. 11-12- 14
Pennoycr, Frank D. (332) ............ 4- 15-15
Peterson, Albion F. (336) ............ 7-31- 15
P eterson, Frank F. (634 ) ............ .. 5-31 - 15
Peterson, Harry C. (478) ............ 11-18-14
Philbrick, John C . ( 179) .............. 12- 5-06
Phillips, Robert]. (209) ................ 8-19- 14
Pickering, Claude W . (200) ........ 8-11 - 10
Pierce, Frank B. (319) .................. 6-29-15
Pippin, James E., Sr. (476) .......... 10-21 - 14
Pirie, Ra lph L. (290) .................... 11-21-14
Pitchford, Gilbert L. (-431 ) .......... 7- 6- 15
Pla nk, Franklin A. (620) .............. 5- 9-H
Plaskett, Frank W. ( 308) ............ 11-26-12
Platt, H arry 0. (414) .................. 6-18-14
Polson, George W . (464) ............ 2-1 6-15
Popp, Ma rtin C. (247) .................. 6- 19-13
Pa rdon, John ( 136) ........................ 6-30- 14
Porter, George E. (247) ................ 9-25-14
Porter, Howard I. (323) .............. 5-13-14
Poschman, William H . (442 ) ...... 9- 7- H
Potter, Lloyd A. (135) .................. 6-22- 15
Praeger, Lionel A. (452) .............. 6-16-15
Pret:z, Fred W. (322) .................... 1-28-15
Price, Jesse A. (422 ) ...................... 7- 16- 12
Price. Roger M. (469) .................. 6- 6-15
Prusch, N_i c~ol as H. (H ) .............. 9-30- 14
Pugh, Wilham H. (117) .............. 11-10-14
Purcupile, Charles A. (608 ) ........ 1-23-08
Puterbaugh, W illiam B. (676) .... 1-21- 15
Rader, Edward {393) .................... 7-1 6-15
Ralston, D anton E . (320) ............ 4-26-12
Randall. W alter H. (564) ............ 4-23- 15
Rappaport, David S. ( 564 ) .......... 7- 14-14
Ra tch, Edward A. (666 ) .............. 3- 8-15
Re bard, Eugene M. (478) ............ 6-20-06

NAME ANO LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Rees, Frederick G. {20) ................ 4-22-15
Reineman, Lester A. (317) ............ 3-19-13
Reyburn, John E. (643) ................ 4-20-15
Rhoads. Earl E . (676) .................. 6-11-15
Riave, Louis R. (341) .................... 3-1 8-09
Rice, George B. (320) .................. 11 -20-09
Rich, Henry M. (3) ...................... 6-25-15
Riddell, George (454) .................... 7-31-15
Riedle, Fred H. (312) .................... 6-10-li
Ritter. Allan G. (278) .................... 2- 17- 15
Roach, Hugh (256) ........................ 10- 1- 14
Roberts, Frank H. (229) .............. 8-17-08
Roberts. Willard A. (544) ............ 12- 18-H
Robinson, Cha rles S. (367) .......... 3-28-05
Rodgers, Joseph N. (410) ............ 8-23-15
Roepke, Roy (241) ........................ 10-30-14
Rogers, Lawrence H. (445) .......... 11-21-12
Rosenshine, Leon J. (21 6) ............ 11 -29-13
Ross, Donald A. (1 69) .................. 12- 10-13
Ross, Elmer K. ( 349) .................... 3- 9-15
Rothenberg, Henry (344) ............ 3-14-14
Rothschild, Harvey J. (716) ........ 3-25-15
Rothwell, John F. (389) ................. 11- 11-14
Routt, Forrest V. (41 ) .................. 3-16-14
Runkle. Donald F. (343) .............. 2-15- 15
Ruppert, Ralph H. (435) .............. 10-27-14
Russe ll, Harry W. (547) .............. 3- 19-15
Russell. Thomas B. ( 458 ) ............ 2-27-06
Russi. Martin F. (448) .................. 12- 18-14
Ruth ven, Sidney (217) .................. 12-23-11
Ryckma n, Leroy G. (366) ............ 2-11-15
Sachs, Otto F. (117) .................... 6- 8-15
Sahlein, Jules M. (526) ................ 10- 19-10
Sauer, Arthur A. (209) ................ 11 -25-14
Savage, Richard E. ( 126) ............ 11 -14-14
Schaffer. John G. ( 57 1) ......... ...... 7-20-14
Schenck, Donald W. (319) ..........10-12-14
Schubert, Frank W. (513) ............ 4- 9-12
Schultz, Frederick (570) ......... ..... 12-30-14
Schunke. Otto (256) ...................... 3-24- 15
Schussman,Le oG. (1 06 ) .............. 3-27- 15
Schwab, Elmer (385) .................... 1- 2-15
Seamans, Joseph E. ( 278) ............ 3- 18-14
Sedglcy, Walter F. (140) ........... .11 -26- 14
Seger. Stewart (435) .................... 1-15-15
Sei fert. Paul W . (435 ) .................. 5-11 -15
Selk, George W . (652) ................ 9-17- 14
Seller, Albert J. (517) .................... 5- 16- 10
Setterquist, Osca r E. (87) ... ........ 6- 4-15
Setty, George 0. (420) ................ 12-10..14
Seward , Charles R. (599) ............ 1-26-14
Sey, Charles (409) ........................ 10- 6-14
Sha de!. Quinn N. (339) ................ 1-25- 15
Shaw, William D. (352) .............. 11 -17-14
Shearer, Peter ( 554) ...................... 6- 4-11
Shepherd. William R. (324) ........ 11 -20..13
Sherer. Arthur C. (351) ................ 11-30-14
Sherman, Clinton W. ( 113) ........ 3-26-15
Sherman, Roger ( 194) ................. .11 -25-12
Shillington, John E. (341) ............ 1-26-09
Short, Benjamin A. (577) .............. 10-10..10

DATE O P RAISING

Shreve, William 0. (254 ) ............ 4-29-14
Shull, Louis C. (327) .................... 10-15- 10
Sicotte, Leo E . (349) .................... 4-27-15
Silberi>erg, Mendel B. (445 ) ........ 9-26- 14
Silverstone, Arthur H. ( 120) ........ 10-22-14
Slmonlc. Joseph ( 233) .................. 8- 7-1 5
Slater, William B. (205) .............. 12- 9- 13
Slocum, Lewis W . (593 ) .............. 8- 13-1 3
Small. Ben J. (564) ........................ 9-29-14
Smith, Alwin F. ( 564 ) .............. .. .. 6- 8- 14
Smith. Charles D. (51 6) ................ 5-22-15
Smith, Clarence W . (363) ........... 2-25- 15
Smith. Clemence H. ( I ) ................ 3-25-15
Smith, Cli tford A. ( 46 l ) .... ............ 8-12- 14
Smith, Du Ray (376) .................... 8-20-06
Smith. Ernest R. (449) .................. 9-23-li
Smith, Frederick E . ( 492) ............ 6-23- 15
Smith, Jesse C. (582) .................... 8-10-14
Smith, John (139) .......................... 1-27-15
Smith, Leland R. (68) .................... 4-22-15
Smith, Ormond W . (186) ............ 3-27-1 5
Smith. Walter M. (424 ) ................ 7-31 - H
Snowden, Earl F. (445 ) ................ 5-1 1- 12
Snyder, Chester A. (366) ............ 2- 19-1 5
Sobey, Gifford L. (260) ................ 3-29- 15
Sohm. Joseph P. (410) ............... .. 4-14- 15
Sondag, Alphonse (336 ) .............. 9-28-14
Souther, William M. (6 12 ) .......... 5-31 -13
Spence, Arthur L. ( 178) .............. 3-1 8- 15
Spence, Robert (185) .................... 9- 5- 14
Spencer, Herbert ( 349) ................ 9-29- 14
Spinks, John W. (278) .................. 10-14- 14
Standeford, Charlton G. (247) .... 3- 6-1 3
Stamford, Donald L. (680) .......... 11- 19-14
Stanley, William W . (122) .......... 4- 15-05
Stanton, LeRoy H. (278) .............. 10-30-12
Stark, George W.· (44 ) ................ 4-21-15
Starks, Leonard F. (30) .. ..... ...... ... 6- 15-1 5
Steinberg, Arthur (303) ................ 6- 15-15
Steiner, Ray H. (331 ) .................. 9-14-14
Steinhauser, Samuel S. ( 21 ) ........ 4-14-15
Stemmle, John W . (337) .............. 3- 6-15
Stephens, John W. (355 ) .............. 9-24- 14
Stevenson, Edwa rd E. (3 19 ) ........ 7-20-1 5
Stewart, Edwin F. ( 200) .............. 2- 5-14
~tei;art, Robert W. (349) ............ 10- 5-14
Stl s. Luther C. (245) .................. 6-1 7-09
tokes, Frank F. (320) ........... _..... 6-13-1 4
Slone, Archibald E . S. ( 202) ·---- 9-29-14
~tone, Frederick J. (435) .............. 2- 16-15
Stoodley, Gerald F. (268) ............ 12- 18- 14
Stratton, Roy W . (645 ) ................ 4-22- 15
Strauh, E rnest L. (375) ................ 1- 18- 15
Sumner, William A. (557) ............ 5-20-13
Sutton, Don Emil (466) ................ 3-24-15
Sutton, Herbert C. ( 286) ............. 10-21-14
Swan, Thomas W . (454) ............ 5-15- 15
SW&Jl.50ll, Ca rl E. ( 179) ................ 8- 1-14
wanson, Herman L. (57 ) ............ 3-15-15
Swearingen, Phillip J. 1445 ) ...... Unknown
Sweet, Alvin H. (320) .................. l-3 1- 13

NA MF. A ND LODGE NO.

51
DAT E OP RAISING

T asselJ. Clyde S. (458) ................ 2- 3- 14
T a u11eman, Walter B. (428) ........ 9-20-12
fa ylor, Earl G. (258) .................. 3-13- 15
aylor, Roy (378) ........................ 1-25-15
T eilma n, Ingvart H. (277) ............ 11- 1-12
T
T emple, George F. (628) .............. 6-1 6-10
harpe, Hugh A. (327) ................ 6- 9-1 4
Th
Thomas, T homas H. (139) .......... 7-22- 13
ompson, Cage G . (204) ............ 3-31-05
Thompson, Puller W . (513) ........ 7-15-1 5
Thompson, Lorentus S. (440) ...... 3-15-13
Tice, William A. (733) ................ 7-29- 14
T oepplcr, Ed T . A. ( 178) ............ 11-23-14
T
Tomb. Elliot HaC (328) .............. 11-30- 14
rathen, Frank . (61) ................ 2-26- 15
fretten, O tto C. (370) .................. 5-26- 15
riipc, John ( 178) .......................... 3- 8-1 5
:j:rott. H enry (391) ........................ 11-21- 14
ruitt. Burton H. (563) ................ 12-16-1l
T udsbury, Robert L. (258) .......... 11- 7-14
Turnbull, George R. (435 ) .......... l -29-15
Turner. N icholas 0 . ( 111 ) .......... 3-24-15
Tuxford, William A. (346) .......... 10- 7- 11
Vandborg, Lawrence ( 136) .......... 1-20-1 4
VanNatta. Cari 0 . (207) .............. 3-19-1 5
Vaughn , Raymond L. (427) ........ 7-22-12
~ eitch, Edward I. (6 1) ................ 8-21 -14
v eldcnzer. John J. (678) .............. 5-27- 15
ernon, Abner D. (290) .............. 5-22- 15
V ocke, Charles L. W . (587) ........ 2-25-1 5
Voddcn, W 11ltcr G. (449) ............ 8-19- 14
Voorhi('S, Edwin C. (228) ............12- 19- 14
\.Vackemarth, Henry 0. (335 ) .... 6-17-1 5
Waelty, Waldo R. (511) .............. 5- 8-15
Wa llace, Thomas F. (685) .......... 2-16-15
~alters. Ha rry W. (306) ............ 4- 8-15
altz, Clyde ~29 ) ...................... 12-18-14
W a rd. George . (233) ................ 1-16-15
\ Varriner, M ax ( 198 ) .................... 6- 4- 14
Waterbury, Irving B. (478) ........ 2-27-1 5
W atts, Charles F. (2 15) .............. 4-29-1 5
~atson, David G. (314) .............. 12-30-13
a tson, George ( 454 ) ····--·····- ····· 3-3 1- 14
~atson, Jesse D. (378) ................ 2-22- 15
ebber, F rank G. (627) .............. 4-30- 15
Webster, Louis B. (355) .............. 1-18-08
~e~den. F rederick L. (375) ........ 8-24-14
W emgart, Ben (202) .................... 11 -24- 14
eiss, F redric M. (42) ................ 7-24-14
~c~, George W. (322 ) ............ 2-28-12
e urg, Evar W . (564) ............ 5-21 - 15
W erner, Arthur M. (378) ............ 7-27-14
Wetmore, W illiam F. (379 ) ........ 6-30-1 5
W higam, James E . (668 ) .............. 6- 17-1 3
Whi te, Arthur B. (259) ................ 6-28-06
White, T heodore H. (278 ) .......... 11-26- 13
W hite, W illiam A. {38 1) .............. 1- 4-1 5
Whitson, E lmer W. (296) ............ 12-11-14
W hittard , Ernest A. S . (76) ........ 5- 2-96
W hittington, William E . (312) .. 5- 14-14
W iesenfeld, W illiam (478) .......... 9-19-14

52

PROCEEDINGS OP THE!

NAME ANO LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Wildin. William H. (382) ............ 5-17-12
Wiley, James F. ( 169) .................. 10-22-13
Wilkerson. Harry H . (678) .......... 3-25- 13
Wilkin, Fred L. (259) .................. 11-12-08
Wilkinson, Alfred ( 174) .............. 7- 7-15
Williams. George V. (147) .......... 5-22-15
Williams. James B. (296) .............. 4-26- 15
Wi lliams, William S. (84) .......... 6-26-15
Willson. George W. (397) .......... 4-15-H
Wilson, Alexander E. (450) ........ 5-27-14
Wilson, Glenn W. ( 194) .............. 12-14-14
Wilson, James N . (345) ................ 1-11-15
W ilson, John G. (444) .................. 12- 7-li
Wilson, Stanley P. (214! ............ 9-IO-H
Wilson. William H. (397 ............ 9-15-14
W!sentalner, Joseph (760 ............ 7-24-15

NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Wohlfarth, Roy A . (319) ............ 10-27-14
Wolfe. Charles H . (537) .............. 3-19-13
Wolff. Victor L. ( 136) .................. 11 -24-14
Wolfshon, Fred ( 534) .................. 9-14-12
Wood, Arthur A. (202) ................ 12-22-14
Wood, Calvin F. (128) ................ 10-22-14
Wood, Harold I. (347) ................ 10-15-14
Woods, James H . (207) .............. 11 -25- 14
Wraith, William H . ( 111) .......... 3- 6-09
Wright. Floyd E . ( 524) ................ 8- 14-14
Wurts, Myron L.. Jr. (61) ............ 4-16-15
Wyman. Oliver C. (3) ................ 11-23-14
Wyttenbach. Albert A. (35) ........ 5-29-15
Yeager. L. D. Bert ( 126~ .............. 2-22-15
Young , Burton G . ( 435 .............. 9-25-14
Zerikotes, James P. (403 .............. 11-19-li

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
In a fraternal institution such as ours, the quest for, and efforts
toward, uniformity in the ritualistic work of our constituent Lodges is
an ever present challenge. The importance of uniformity has been recognized by our Grand Lodge constantly since it came into being in the
year 1850. Our system, whereby the Grand Lecturer and the Assistant
Grand Lecturers, constituting the Ritual Committee, constantly review
the work, then in turn instruct the Inspectors who are responsible for the
instruction to the officers of the Lodges of their respective districts,
has long been recognized for its efficiency in working toward uniformity
and perfection in the exemplification of our three degrees.
This Grand Lodge has been most fortunate to have had the services
of a series of highly capable and sincerely dedicated brothers to serve
our Grand Lodge in the capacity of Grand Lecturer. I know that the
brethren here assembled will join with me in recognizing our three living
Past Grand Lecturers-Most Worshipful Leslie E. Wood, 1934-39;
Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis, 1952-59; and Very W orshipful
Donald G. Campbell, 1959-64. Each ha·s contributed significantly toward
thte goals of the office of the Grand Lecturer, the Ritua l Committee, and
the Grand Lodge of California, and I extend to them my heartfelt thanks
a nd gratitude.
The entire Ritual Committee, as now constituted, is determined that
the retention of the purity of our ritual. as handed down to us by these
distinguished Masons who have preceded us. is a sacred trust. We
pledge ourselves to this trust, and the following is a resume of our
activities in this regard during the past year.
The importance of constant review of our ritual as a means of
retaining the purity of our work is recognized by the Ritual Committee:
and, in accordance with established practice. the Grand Lecturer and the

53

Assistant Grand Lecturers met in Pasadena on November 27 to 29 1964
under the direction of yery Worshipful Donald G. Ca mpbell, no~ Pas~
Grand Lecturer. for this purpose. At this session all ritualistic work and
the lectures of the three de~rees were exemplified by the Assistant Grand
Lecturer~. Because of Dons then an nounced retirment and the impending appomtment of a new Grand Lecturer, Worshipful Frank P. Lemen
lnsp_e~tor _o ft.h e 218th District, was in attendance. Brother Lemen. by hi~
part1c1pat1on m the work, proved his qualifications for appointment to the
Second Division as Assistant Grand Lecturer.
S~bsequently. on Janua ry _1. 1965. it beca me my privilege, through
appointment by Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam , Grand Master,
to serve for the balance of Don's term as Grand Lecturer.
It had been some time since the Ritual Committee had entered into
a _c~nfer~nce type program to review problems of general interest, adm1rustrative procedures, and policies and decisions of previous Grand
Lecturers and Grand Masters. Because three of our Assistant Grand
Lecturers had come on the Ritual Committee since the last such meeting, a session was held in Sacramento on February 21 and 22 for
the purposes outlined. The meeting also afforded the opportunity to
project future plans and objectives of the Ritual Committee in the discharge of its duties.
In .addition to _the November and February meetings of the group,
the. Ritual Comm ittee also met in closed session during each of the
Sprmg Conferences, to consider matters pertaining to the ritual and
current problems and questions.
During the yea r. each Assistan t Grand Lecturer conducted a series
of ~egularly . prog~a~?1ed Schools of Instruction for the Inspectors of
their respective D1v1s1ons. covering the ritual and lectures, reception of
the flag, ballot ting. etc.
. ~~so, the usual five Spring Conferences for Inspectors of the various
OJVJs1ons were held and attended by all members of the Ritual Committee:
Division

A ssistant Grand Lecturer

VI

W. Ben Sorrells
Arthur J. Kahn
Roger A. Crigler
Wallace H . Fiske
Clare B. Campbell
Frank P. Lemen

III

v

IV

I and II

Held at

Date

San Diego
Santa Rosa
San Diego
Yosemite
Bijou

March 26-28
April 9-11
May 7-9
June 4-6
June 18-20

!he calibre of work exemplified by the Inspectors at the various
Spri~g Conferences a ugurs well for the perfection of. and the purity of
our ri~ual among our constituent Lodges .
Right Worshipful Myron E. Smith, Deputy Grand Master, and

55

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens. were present at the Conferences,
and we were all inspired by the depth of the messages on Masonry
given by Myron at each Conference. Also. our Grand Secretary. Most
Worshipful Edward H. Siems, attended the Conferences'. a nd. made
himself available to the Inspectors for consultation and d1scuss1on of
problems peculiar to their districts. Owing to his crowded schedule,
Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam. Grand Master. had to forego
attendance at all conferences except the Divisions I and II Conference.
We missed him.
Acting for the Grand Lecturer. Arthur J. Kahn. Assistant Grand
Lecturer. conducted Schools of Instruction for the Inspectors and O~:
ficers' Coaches. and for the Candidates' Cociches. in the State of Hawan.
Also. he held informal meetings with the Masters and ~fficers of the
various Lodges on the Islands, and his report of progress m the Lodges
of Hawaii is most encouraging.
Culminating the year's activities of the Ritual Committee. is the
Grand Lecturer's School of Instruction for Inspectors on the Saturday
preceding the opening of our Grand Lodge's Annual Communication.
Last Saturday. October 9. the entire day was devoted to a most excellent
presentation and demonstration of our ritual a nd lectures by th: In~
specters of the respective Divisions. The Inspectors are to be highly
commended for their fine work.
Lodges participating in the various Grand Lodg~. pr~grams and
activities and we shall continue to foster such parttc1patton and co~
operatio~ with the Grand Lodge Committee Chairmen responsible for
these activities.
In recent years there have been more and more requests for our
Grand Lodge Cornerstone Ceremony throughout the State. It is
particularly necessary, because of our public contact and exposure
in these instances, that careful planning and proper arrangements be
made. The procedure followed by our recent Grand Masters has pla~ e?
responsibility in the hands of the Assistant Grand Lecturer of the D1v1sion. to the Inspector, and then to the local Lodge. In o~der to pro_vide
greater efficiency and thoughful planning for these functions'. the R1~ual
Committee is now in the process of developing a set of detailed gmdelines and instructions for the guidance of the Inspectors and the brethren
of the Lodges. We feel that such a set of detailed instructions, w~th a
degree of flexibility in some areas of detail. will eventually contnbute
g reatly toward the growth and enhancement of the public image of
Masonry in our various communities.
At last year's Annual Communication. the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommended that the Grand Lecturer be instructed
to prepare a suitable ceremony to be used as an alternate w.hen n~cessary
in the placing of a plaque in lieu of a cornerstone. T~1s s u?iect has
been explored at some length, and in the course of cons1derat1on many

questions as to scope and feasability confronted us. Additionally. our
exploratory work in this field raised questions as to the functionability
of our present Cornerstone Ceremony in our present day application .
Our Cornerstone Ceremony was written for situations wherein the
stone was an actual cornerstone, and functional in the erection of the
building. However, the laying of the cornerstone of public schools and
public buildings, at the present time, usually takes place after the building has been completed. Because of this, there is a growing sentiment
that optional phraseology should be included in certain segments of
the ceremony to better flt the circumstances of the laying of the corner~
stone under these conditions.
We propose that s uch optional material be developed. with the intent
that ~uch optional _rhraseology may then render the ceremony appropriate to the placmg of a plaque as well as for the laying of a cornerstone un~er .p resent day situations. This will require further study before flnal1zat1on, and we shall continue to work toward this end.
It is gratifying to report this year that the education of our Candidates through the Candidates ' Coaches Handbook program, is being
adopted by an increasing number of our Lodges. Our Inspecto rs and
Masters of Lodges report that the educational program, adopted at the
1962 ~ommunication , and based on the Handbook created by Very
Worshipful Don Campbell. is catching on, and is bringing forth better
informed Masons. The Ritual Committee is well aware of the importance
of this responsibility, and is determined that it shall expand to greater
effectiveness.
During the year it was called to my attention that there were a few
Lodges. seven to be exact, that were presenting to their candidates a
la~skin apron displaying symbols and emblems in blue. In keeping
with long established tradition, references in the C a lifornia Masonic
Code, and our adopted rituals, I issued a directive to the Inspectors
that none but all-white aprons are to be used for this purpose. and
that no symbols, insignia, nor trim in any color other than white, shall
be permissible.
. Also, upon investigation of a report that a so-called " Table Lodge"
ritual of another Grand Lodge was being used by one of our chartered
Lodges, I issued a directive to the Masters of the Lodges concerned.
and the Inspectors of the jurisdiction, that the use of this ritual is
c~ntrary to _the California M asonic Code sections having to do with
~tual. that 1t shall not be utilized by our constituent Lodges, and that
it shall be discontinued where such program had a lready been utilized.
. The Grand Lecturer a nd the Ritual Committee recognize the extreme
importance of Ritual. its teachings of the great moral truths, virtues,
and tenets of Masonry, in the building of a strong fraternal institution
such ~s ours. !"nd _while we recognize the previously acknowledged
necessity of umform1ty and the preservation of the purity o f our work

54

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

- the ritual and lectures - we also firmly believe that in order to be
effective the rituals and lectures of our three degrees must be characterized not only by perfection, but by excellence as well. Careless and
slip-shod ritual, and lectures delivered merely by rote. are repugnant to
us. We shall. through the Inspectors, and in turn through the officers
of the Lodges. strive for more meaningful presentation of our. degrees
for our candidates. Our Ritual, both monitorial and esoteric. when
presented with thoughtful and conscientious effort. can make a deep
and lasting impression on the mind of the can~idate that may become
a life-long inspiration. Our Ritual has been tried and proven. and we
are determined that the Ritual as handed down to us by our predecessors.
and which we cherish, needs no periodic revisions, innovations, or
embellishments - past, present, or future.
Our Inspectors have been referred to, in a most s incere and kindly
manner, by our Grand Masters of the past, as the workhorses of our
Grand Lodge. From my experience during the past nine years, working
in close association with the Inspectors - first as one of them, then
as Assistant Grand Lecturer. and this year in my present capacity I wholeheartedly subscribe to and agree with this assessment by our
Grand Masters. Their assignments. the duties to be performed, and
the unstinting discharge of their responsibilities. merit all the recognition, thanks. and appreciation that the Grand M aster. the Grand Lecturer. and the members of this Grand Lodge may expre-ss.
Our Grand Secretary. Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems , h<ls been
most helpful to our efforts during this past year. His courtesies, the
availability of his store of knowledge, and the help and assistance of
both he and his staff.has been much appreciated.
Shortly before the convening of this Annual Communication, Worshipful Arthur J. Kahn. Assistant Grand Lecturer. Division III. indicated to our Deputy Grand Master that he desired to be relieved of his
duties at the close of this Communication. He has served our Grand
Lodge in his present capacity since 1952, and during his years of service
he has a chieved a commendable record of service to the Fraternity, and
displayed his love and devotion to the ideals and principles of Masonry
that have been ispirational to those who know him best - the Inspectors
and brethren with whom he worked, and his collegues on the Ritual
Committeee. We express our sincere thanks for his year of unstinting
service, and wish him Godspeed in his future interests and the relaxations
of his retirement.
In closing. may I pay tribute to my predecessor in this office.Very Worshipful Donald G. Campbell. Past Grand Lectu~er. Durmg
the earlier years of his tenure in this office, he was handicapped by
physical misfortunes that would have brought to a close the careers of
many lesser men. But, with indomitable courage, a fighting heart, a
fortitude beyond description, and with an unswering faith in God, he

rose above his misfortunes and travail, eventually to resume his duties
and establish a shining example of determination. service, and accomplishment in the interests of Masonry and the Grand Lodge of California. I shall always cherish his friendship, and the confidence that
he displnyed in recommending me as his s uccessor upon his resignation
last winter. I shall look to him, and to Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis,
who preceded him, for wise and thoughtful counsel during my tenure in
office.
To our Grand Master and friend, Most Worshipful Theodore
Meriam. goes the hope that our efforts during the ye;lr have been
creditable and acceptable, and our thanks and appreciation for his
demonstrated trust and support.
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD N. RICHARDS,
Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committe on Finance.

57

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DISTRIBUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Committee on Distribution, to which has been referred the
Annual Message of the Grand Master and the reports of the Grand
Treasurer, the Grand Secretary, the Grand Lecturer and the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes. submits the foilowing report:
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recomm'end that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
herein listed be referred to the Committees indicated:
l. To the Committee on JurisprudenceDecisions 1, 2, 4 through 7 inclusive.
The action regarding discipline.
2. T o the Committees on Jurisprudence and on P olicy and General
PurposesDecision No. 3.
Observation No. 1.
Recommendations Nos. 1 and 4.
3. To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
RitualObservation No. 2.
4. To the Committee on Policy and General PurposesRecommendations Nos. 2, 3 and 5.
"The old order changeth, yielding place to the new." Our Grand
Master. as evidenced by his message and by his talks regarding Masonry
throughout the jurisdiction, has been most alert to the current needs of
our Craft and has competently dealt with them.

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

He has earned a place of distinction and affection in the hearts of all
of us. We know that he will continue to serve the Fraternity in the years
to come.

In addition to the D eputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the following composed the Board. The date of the termination of their three year appointmen t is also shown.
Herbert H. Cooper
1965
James Leo Halley
Edward J. Blickfeldt
1966
Alfred F. Breslauer
Edgar V . S tewart, Jr.
1967
L. Harold Anderson
Lodge No. 614 of
Larchmont
of
Master
Herbert H. Cooper, P ast
Los Angeles, was welcomed to the Boa rd to fulfill the remainder of the
term of Phil N. Myers, who by reason of his change of residence from
Los Angeles to San Francisco was obligated to resign as a southern
member of the Board.
On February 7th. 1965, the Board was s tunned to learn of the passing of James Leo Halley who had been a most valuable member of the
Board since his appointment in 1959. Being for many years a civic
servant of the City and County of San Francisco, his experience as an
administrator served him well and he was a most respected a nd much
loved member of our Board. The Necrology Committee report later
this ':eek will extoll the many virtues of this genial brother with which
we his co-~or~ers were so familiar. We shall always remember his
many contributions to the deliberations of the Board and the warmth
of his friendship.
01~ March 22, I 965, the Grand Master announced the appointment
N. Myers to fi ll the unexpired term of Brother Halley, as
Phil
of
Brother Myers ~vas now eligible to serve as a Trustee from the N orth.
We are happy mdeed to again have the services of this retired railroad
executive who had been such a reliable and excellent member of our
Board since hi~ appointment in 1959.

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We recommend the referral of this report in its entirety to the
Committee on Finance.
0

GRAND SECRETARY S R EPORT

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Secretary's Report
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated:
I. That portion of the report relative to the changes of meeting
place to the Committees on Charters and on By-Laws.
2. That portion of the report relating to Lodge consolidations to the
Committee on Charters.
The Reports of the Grand Lecturer and the Trustees of the Masonic
Homes have gone directly to the Committee on Finance as no action by
us is necessary.
Respectfully submitted.
NILES 0. MILLAR
WILLIAM T. LISENBY, JR.
STEPHEN J. C OLLINS

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic H omes of California are
pleased to present the 73rd Annual Report for the year ending June 30,
I 965, together with the reports of the Superintendents of our senior
citizens' home in Union City and our young peoples' home in Covina.
ORGANIZATION

The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco on October I 6, 1964.
for the purpose of organization. The election of Myron E. Smith, Deputy
Grand Master: Laurence E . D ayton. Senior Grand Warden: and John
F. Porter, Junior Grand Warden. was formally reported to the Board,
and on motion duly made, seconded and carried, they were elected
members of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried, Edgar V. Stewart, Jr..
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried, L. Harold Anderson
was elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge F. & A. M.
of California, Paul A. Pflueger is Treasurer of Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge F . & A. M.
of California, Edward H. Siems is Secretary of Masonic Homes of California.

UNION

59

CITY

We feel we must again stress the grea t need of the Board for closer
cooperation on the part of the Lodge committees in the matter of investi~ating applicants for admission to the home in Union City. The records
will sh~w that during the pas t year we turned down a greater proportion
of applicants than in any previous year. This was not due to any change
of admission requirements or any change of heart on the part of the
Trustees: It was d~e s~lely to the presentation of applications which
clearly d1~ not qualify either from a financial or physical standpoint. If
the constituent lo~ges will give greater heed to our admission requireme~ts before p~ssmg upon an application, substantial savings in investigation costs will be realized. Please remember, too, that admission to
th~ ~asonc Homes is a charity and that years of satisfactory membership m a. lodge .does n~t. necessarily qualify applicants for the privilege
of spending their remammg days in our Home, unless there is a financial
need, and unless they are physically qualified by being ambulatory and
able to care for themselves.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is interesting to note how the State of California Department of
Social Welfare requirements have become more and more s tri ngent.
For years we have taken care of our senior guests in the Union City
Home in a normal manner even after they might, after admission, become
dependent upon mechanical aids such as canes. crutches, wheel chairs,
etc. Now we are advised that these people will have to be segregated
and a special building or floor of a building be especially equipped to
permit their continued residence. This is cited only to acquaint you with
the manifold and increasing problems continuing to confront the Board,
all of which increase the cost of our already expensive charitable operations. Our next report will undoubtedly outline our method of meeting
this latest requirement.
We are advised that the Medicare program as administered in California, will be the subject of a special legislative session in October. It is
expected that at that time legislation will be adopted outlining the scope
of service available to the indigent residents of California. Your Board
of Trustees are keeping in close touch with developments as they may
apply to our medical and hospital expenses in our Union City home.
We are pleased to report that there have been no changes in the key
personnel of Union City. so that again the sincere thanks of the fraternity is expressed to them by the Board of Trustees on behalf o f all the
Masons of the Jurisdiction. The positions of Superintendent, A ssistant
Superintendent, Matron and Hospital Supervisor would indeed try the
patience of a saint, and we of ten feel as though the positions are indeed
filled by such. Service beyond the call of duty seems to be an everyday
occurrence. and our expressions of thanks are inadequate to let them
know of our gratitude for their devoted labors.
The appended Superintendent's report will give some idea of the
complexity of the opera tions with which he· is charged.

Scholarship assistance at the college level . b .
our recent high school graduates Each g d ist ~m~ giv~n to three of
. B d f T
.
ra ua e is mterv1ewed by th
entire oar o
rustees
.
..
e
.
Th B d . h h and encouraged to s ta te t h eir
amb1t1ons and
aims.
e oar wit t e assistance of the S
·
d
to determine how they can best be of assistan~~~nnl ten he~t thhen attempts
eI
h th t b
m aunc mg t e graduate
proP r y. w e.
o usiness or trade schools or in th fi Id f h' h
and more specialized education.
e e s o 1g er
To our devoted Superintendent and his wif
h
.
father and mother to some sixt or
e w 0 are practically
6 to 19, the fra ternity owes aygrea~o~:b~ou;gste~s ~angi~g in age from
acknowledged and expressed. Our thanks ~ls~ratitu e w '.ch is hereby
intendent and the entire staff who do
h to the Assistant Superour Masonic children.
so muc to make a real home for
Your attention is
· ca11 ed to t h e Superintendent's detailed report
appen d ed hereto.

60

COVINA

For the past several years the report of this Board of Trustees has
mentioned that it is giving serious consideration to the acquisition of a
new location for our Children's Home, inasmuch as the urbanization of
our present location seriously impairs its desirability for our use. It goes
without saying. also, that half-century old buildings are not in keeping
with modern standards and are of course costly to maintain. While the
Board is not yet in a position to make a definitive recommendation,
exhaustive studies are being continued in relation to this important
problem.
Our camp at Big Bear Lake is serving us well and almost continuously
through the various seasons. Our improvements are practically com.pleted and we find that the facility is fulfilling a real need and the benefits
surpassing our fondest expectations.

61

e:

AoMINISTRAnoN

In keeping with modern day practice our Gra d L
.
through the able administration of th G
d S
n
odge office is,
streamlined and mechanized which in t~e
ecretary'. be~ng greatly
immediate details and statistics rega d .
~ outcome will give us more
Homes activity. We expect th ·s .~ mg t e many facets of Masonic
economies and through central~z ;1 ena;I~ us . also t~ effect certain
efficient budget control.
e recor
eepmg assist us in more
To the tireless efforts of our Grand Secreta
.
we: owe a tremendous vote of thanks W
fr:y and h1~ devoted staff
such an able office administra tor to hand~ a;~ ort~na~e indeed to have
connected with the operation of our Home~. e vo ummous paper work

::nl

1

FINANCES

There is probably no line of business or endeav
not feel the pressure of continuall .
.
or today that does
true of medical and hospital cost~ mcrJas~ng costs. This is particularly
to make up the overall expense of o,uan ~ e many ~thee items that go
D
.
r vanous operations
esp1te the effort of our Superintende
d
.
within our budgets for the two h
b nts ~n the Trustees to stay
ized and again we have dipped .om
t es , s u stant1al deficits have materialp·
m o our reserves A sp · 1 B d
rnance C ommittee consisting of th
ffi
.f
u get and
.
.
e o cers o the ec1a
Bo d h
b
~t ed w hich will meet frequently throughout the e
~r as een
mtende~ts in a sincere attempt, with the aid f y ar with the Su~er­
accountmg system in the Grand Lod
o our newly mecha nized
con.trols on our costs. This committee !~1 ~~~~e:~e:xercise still greater
various trusts and reserves b ·it
elop a study of our
how this can best be utilized
:~e~v:.~~~
yef rs to de~ermine if and
1 10
the lodges.
na per capita charges on

u:o

62

PROCEED INGS OF THE

We are extremel y grateful to report that the generosi ty of our
brethren in adding the greatest annua_l increase yet t_o our Endowm~;~
fund will result of course in a greater mcome from this sour~e. We a h
gratefull y acknowl edge the receipt of more an~ gr~ater gift~ th~ougfi
wills and trusts created by our brethren and their wives for _t e. _ene ~
of the Homes. and we cannot stress too strongly the desirabil ity o
proper publicity in lodge bulletins to further this facet of suppo~ for
our charities. We are pleased to announc e also that the Investme nt ommittee under the chairman ship of our very compete nt Grand Treasure r
reports a substant ial capital gain from our invest~ents.
.
. .
While an ultra conserva tive approach to todays needs might indicate
an increased per capita request for the maintena nce of our Homes for
the next fiscal year. your Board of Tru~tees wit_h full concur~ence of
its Budget and Finance Committ ee is again allowing for a possible and
very probable deficit in the year ahead to be finan~ed from the proper
reserves. and is therefore making no requests for an increase, but request
$1.50 per capita. the same as last year, f_or the use and benefit of the
Masonic Homes of Californ ia for the commg fiscal year.
CONCLUS ION

Californ ia Masons may well be proud of their two Masonic Homes,
which are known througho ut the country as two of _the finest ~nd most
complete anywher e. Despite the requirem ents co~tmually bemg made
by licensing agencies , they. too, continue to compliment us on the completeness of our activities in both Homes.
.
.
your Trustees consider it a privilege to serve you m this most ':ort~y
charitabl e work. Our Masonic Homes program continue s ~o. ~e m lme
with the enviable repu tation enjoyed by all of the other_ac~1v1_he_s of the
Grand Lodge of Californ ia, and every Mason in the JllC1Sd1chon may
be justifiably proud.
Respectf ully submitte d,
EDGAR V . STEWART , JR., Presiden t
L. HAROLD ANDERSO N, Vice Presiden t
PHIL N. MYERS
ALFERO F. BRESLAU ER
MYRON E. SMITH
LAURENC E E . DAYTON
JoHN F. PORTER
EDWARD
BLICKFEL DT
HERB ERT H. COOPER

J.

Referred to Committ ee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

63

REP0R T OF SUPER INTEN DENT - MASON IC HOME
AT UNION CITY (Decato )
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic H omes of California:
Brethren:
It is a sincere pleasure and privilege to submit my ninth annual
report for the fiscal year ending June 30. 1965.
The populatio n as of July 1. 1964 was 149 men and 213 women,
including 20 mar.ried couples. The average age of the 362 residents
was 82.09 years.
During the year, 23 men. average age of 80.80 years, and 18
women. average age 75.22 years. entered the Home. We laid to rest
30 men. average age 84.80, and 21 women, average age of 86.20 years.
On June 30, 1965, there were 340 residents in the Home. consisting
of 136 men and 204 women, including 17 married couples. The average
age of the 340 residents is 82.50 years.
Age Groups
Men
Women
Total
60-69'
7
8
15
70-79
32
54
86
80-89
79
112
191
90-99
18
29
47
100l
1
340
The hospital on June 30. 1965, containe d 103 patients, of whom
88 were considere d permane nt because of their inability to complete ly
care for themselves. On occasions our hospital has been nearly filled
to capacity, with a daily average througho ut the year of approxim ately
116 patients.
We continue to receive the same medical services as mentioned
in our report last year. The Palo Alto Clinic furnishes visiting doctors
five days a week, and on call 24 hours per day.
We are happy to report there has been no chan ge in the administrative staff during the past year. Mrs. Eleanor Farris, the Hospital
Supervisor, Mrs. Betty Dagger , Matron. and Brother Hugh Herring,
Assistant Superint endent, continue their respective duties. They cannot be praised too highly for the excellent work they are doing and
their devoted effort to the Home and the residents. M y sincere thanks
to them for their assistance and cooperat ion.
During the year we have made good use of our bus on weekly
outings to Carmel. Santa Cruz, San Francisco. and along the Sacramento River to Stockton . Also, many evening trips were made to San
Carlos and the Circle Star Theatre, who so gracious ly invited our group
as their guests for various musicals. Larger buses were chartered
for ball games and the ice follies.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the many groups that have visited the Home and entertained
the residents, we extend our thanks and appreciation. These include
the many Masonic Lodges, Eastern Star Chapters, and groups from
the Masonic Club House in Berkeley. DeMolay boys, Job's Daughters,
Rainbow Girls and the Musicians' Union of San Leandro, and many
other groups and individuals. The various booking companies furnished us with movies throughout the year on a gratis basis for which
we are very appreciative.
We are grateful to all the Masonic Lodges and others for their
generous contributions to our Christmas Fund, which helped to make
it a Merry Christmas for the residents. To the various groups and
individuals we extend our thanks and appreciation for all other contributions, such as T.V.s, radios. clothing. etc.
Our annual reception for the Grand Master was held on Friday,
January 8, 1965. This was in conjunction with the regular quarterly
meeting of the Trustees. This visitation was a pleasure enjoyed by
both the residents and staff. The Grand Master and Trustees were
entertained that evening by the residents with several skits.
Another large day was the third Saturday in August, it being
the annual reception for the Grand Matron of Eastern Star by the
Past Matrons of the East Bay. There were a pproximately 800 visitors
on this day. We extend to the organization our sincere thanks for
a year' s supply of jams and jellies and many miscellaneous items.
We greatly appreciate their continued interest in our Home and the
fine work their sewing clubs are doing in supplying us with hospital
gowns, etc. This also applies to the Eastern Stars throughout the
State.
Our Grand Lodge held its annual visitation on October 14, 1964,
and there were approximately 1500 visitors. They were served a box
lunch, then toured the Home. The formal dedication of our new building. the Charles Albert Adams Hall, was held that afternoon in the
entrance to this building.
We began moving into the Charles Albert Adams Hall on June 1,
1965, with six couples occupying apartments, and they are quite happy
with their new quarters.
Our maintenance program has been quite extensive this year. The
painting of the dining room and kitchen was completed in January.
We have kept our own painters busy painting rooms, hallways and
furniture. The roads were all gone over and repaired where necessary.
Our guest register was signed by 4,220 visitors, representing 525
Lodges in California and Hawaii, 28 other jurisdictions as well as two
foreign countries.
To all the residents, on behalf of the staff. our sincere appreciation
for your cooperation during the past year. It has been a pleasure to
work with you for your happiness.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

65

Every emp~oyee d~serves a word of commendation for his cooperation and assistance in caring for our residents in the H ome an d
· 1.
· t he h osp1ta
patients m
Ea~ Board membe.r has been most helpful during the past year
with ass~stance and advice. Each one is to be commended for his s incere
interest m the Home and our residents.
My.personal th~nks to the Trustees for their confidence and helpful
counseling. It c~ntmues to be a pleasure to serve the Board of Trustees
and the Fratermty as Superintendent of the Masonic H ome.
Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTEN DENTCOVINA HOME
· .
of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of Cat/
To the· Board
1 ornra.
· d d
I t is m
annual
seventeenth
my
submit
ee . a great pleasure to
report as Superi~tendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina
'
for the year ending June 30, 1965.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

As .of June 30, 1965, the. Covina Home shows a stable population,
only slightly under last year s total at the same time · At presen t , our
F .
Co · H
vma ome . am1 1Y numbers twenty-five girls and thirty-six boys
f?r a total of sixty-one children. During the fiscal year of 1964-1965,
eight youn~ peop.le were admitted : five girls and three boys. Two bo ~
and two girls were re-admitted after a leave of absence. Over h?tf
of Jhe~e ~~ung people are in the Junior or Jr. Intermediate age groups
an ~ ou . reasonably, be in the Home at least five more ears Of
y b.
the fifteen youngsters who departed from the Home . s·1x were
oys
E
·I
·
nm~1 ·wereThg1r s. h !even of the children returned to live with thei;
fam1 1es. e ot er four young
d
J
peop e were gra uated from Charter
Oak ff h h I Th
ree graduates will reside here while they continue
. tgll c ood..
their
co ege stu 1es.

s

Family Status
. .
Orphans
H / 0 Fathers Living
H/ 0 Mothers Living
Both Parents Living

Children
2
16
2
41

Families
2
10
2
17

31
61
To vary ~e pattern of institutional living, the children at Covina
:nurg~d to sign up for ~chool and extra-curricular endeavors. Placet o the Home Family according to grade level is as follows:

66

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

twenty-two children in high school. fourteen in junior high, and twentyfive in grade school.
Within the Home structure we offer a program designed to keep
the young people healthy and fit through the medium of school sports,
intra- and inter-Dorm athletics. and Southern California Boys' League
competition. Included on the agenda are swimming and lifesaving,
camping, water- and snow-skiing, surfing, boating, track, horseback
riding, and hiking. Where cultural opportunities arise for trips to art
galleries, museums, or scientific institutions and demonstrations , it is
arranged for the young people to attend. Additionally, in keeping with
their inclinations and personal qualifications, it is possible for them to
join the Rainbow for Girls. Job's Daughters, or De Molay; Girl
Scouts, Boy Scouts. Campfire Girls; school choirs or choruses; and
other organizations for youth groups which will contribute to their
character development or spiritual growth. This past year. ballet
lessons have once again been offered for the young ladies here.
Recognizing that lack of family identification may produce a parallel
lack of motivation in maintaining high scholastic standards at school,
we continue to make supplementary instruction in the form of a special
tutoring program available for the residents. Thus, emphasis is
placed upon aiding the children to keep up with their peers in classes
at all levels. Usually, additional help is made available in math and
languages at the high school levels to insure grades which will make
it possible for the college candidates to qualify.
In general health and well-being, the children of the Covina Home
would disparage any similar or individual family group anywhere. Our
aim has always been to keep the young people at a high peak of
health. Magan Clinic in Covina supervises this program for us in
the form of regular annual examinations, with additional examinations
and consultations when necessary. We continue to provide dental
hygiene and care at the Home hospital. with specialized problems
being handled at the dentist's or orthodontist's offices. Specialists are
consulted for ophthalmology , dermatology, surgery, etc. Psychiatric
testing and treatments are included in the program.
Because the only home many of these graduates have ever known
is the Masonic Home at Covina , a particular effort is made to maintain an active contact with the Alumni. Four Masonic Home Reunions
bring the Alumni together: a picnic in Sacramento on the first Saturday in June; a dinner in San Francisco on the Saturday preceding
the Annual Communicatio n; a picnic in Covina on the second Sunday
in September; and a Dinner Dance near Covina in April. Further,
recent graduates with no relatives in the area may write in and request
permission to stay at Covina during a Service leave or school vacation.
This bridges the gap between residence here and such time as is required
to build a life of their own.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

67

On the eve of its fiftieth anniversary, the Home at Covina is an
island of serenity_ in a sea of problems, most of the problems intrinsic
withi~ ~he changing. face of th~ city of Covina itself and the rapidly
urbanrzmg community. around 1t. Under the circumstances, we have
been very successful m maintaining an orderly, disciplined heavily
'
parental stability.
The retur~ "Home" by Alumni throughout the year, the various
Alumni Reunions throughout the State, and the hundreds of contacts
by letter and telep~one continually remind me of the responsibility
and challenge that 1s afforded by being a part of the Masonic Home
Family.
It w.ould be impractical to endeavor to set forth the numerous
accomplishments and honors achieved by Alumni of the "Home." It
would be even more difficult to evaluate them individually in this respect
here in this report. . However, when they are reflected upon, one
cannot help. but realize the tremendous contribution that has been
made to society by the Masonic Fraternity of California and by the
Board of Trustees through the medium of the Covina Home Family.

Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY, Superintenden t

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWME NT BOARD
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board hereby submits its 33rd
Annual Report for your thoughtful study and prayerful consideration.
Th~ Masonic Homes Endowment Board was created by Grand
Lod_ge in 1933 as a Constitutional Board of Grand Lodge. to "study,
dn1se and carry out plans for the securing of an adequate Endowment
fund for the Masonic Homes of California." The Endowment Fund
ftself v.:as actually <Started. i~ 1910 and the Homes are still benefiting
by the mcome from the ongmal and subsequent gifts to the Fund.
INCOME FROM THE E NDOWMENT FUND

The income from the Homes Endowment Fund this year amounted

~ ~99,393.00 and that amount was applied to the operating expenses
0

th Homes. Were it not for the Endowment Fund. that amount of
$599,39~.00 would have had to be raised as an adidtional "compulsory"
pet-capita tax upon the Lodges.

ad~e ~ndowment Fund is the result of " voluntary" contributions.
die •• e income .~rom the Fund augments and lessens the severity of
COmpulsory method of per-capita tax,

68

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

BEQUESTS

A verage
Average
amount
amount
member
per
Lodge
No.
per member
No.
Lodge
'197 Tila Pass .......... :....................... $12.88 599 garmeli ta .................................. 5.27
761 Josiah W. Roller...................... l l .50 220 H~ttne~································· 5.17
786 Rio Linda.................................. l l.02 355 w ~ ································ 5.16
······- 9.83 767 RcdJ~n hodcs Hervey.............. 5. I2
800 Rio Hondo ························
........... 8.61
300
BOS Camelia •.....................................
8.29 794 M vVds ·································· 5.11
378 Mizpah .........................
······························ 5.1 0
1
781 Rolling Hills ............................ 8.14 774 \.J~ik"k1_lson
Kn;;i·i~····················.. ····· · 5.09
780 Riviera ···············-····················· 8. 13 699 Bixb
5.08
·-················
S2S George Washington................ 7.92 476 Co y
·································· 5.05
t/2 Pasadena .............................. .... 7.73 637 p l~chdlla
5.04
769 P:l~adaeles ·····-·················· ·········
'$)7 Santa Monica .......................... 7.71
························· ···· ..... . 5.02
7.55
......
........................
Points
Plve
791
·5.01
719
~en. H.enry H. Arnold ............ ·
278 Southern California ................ 7.5 1 264
A ispvan ·······-························ 5.oo
790 Granada Hills···-····················· 7.31 464 G
ta ista ................................ 4.98
809 Los Alamitos ............................ 7.10 596 A uardian .................................. 4.98
778 La Mirada ................................ 7.07 538 Ts~ot ···---·--···········
4.07
3
813 Old West·················- ··············· 7.05
-----···- ························ 4.96
ama
p·e
7.04
...........
Garfield...........
A.
James
521
S66
1edmont ................. ................ 4.95
S95 Alexander Graham Bell.......... 6.89 540 0weenJeach ···························· 4.95
698
200
H m. . Stephens.................... 4.95
623
95
Clay ·-··························· 4.94
S
S13 Cahuenga -···-········-··············· 6.52 452
768 Zenith.................................. ..... 6.51 445 w~1 .asqual •··························· 4.94
733 Golden Empire........................ 6.47 737
S80 Santa Maria ............................ 6.46 392 '/:'est Lake ......... ...................... 4:92
S6 Volcano -··-····························· 6.39 710
470
475 A~ac~pa ·····-·-························· 4.9Z
650
i50 Va;rN~ -~··:···················· ··········· 4.89
766 {r1es H. Kew................... -..... 6.24 812
727
erdugo Hills ···················-··· · 6.22 166
740 Opportunity ·············-············· 6.21 578 rogressive ....... ... .........
4 82
202 Pentalpha ...............................• 6.17 81 1 roodland Hills ...................... 4:82
743
-·-····························· 6.16 219 Cperanui Italiana .................... 4.81
661 ~kwood
al ta ..............·-··········.............. 6.11
713
......................... . 4.80
816 Wm. B. Ogden ........................ 6 01 455 C:,j~ro ~lley
4.79
8H ~ljza Sde .Los Angeles.............. 5:99 662 H en est···-··········
693 &nmMpr.mgs ························ ···· 5.91 481 M~~ba~id~~n···························· 4·79
68S W
5 .83 254 Reading .......... :::::::::::::············· !·~~
313 K1 est s A ngeles...............
5.78 319
~lltn~ec.k -··-·········-······ ····· 4:76
7.M
······· 5.78 422 T g eR ock ·········-·-················· 4.76
--··········-········
Latgrson
7~ Gol nada .......................... ..... 5.77
731 Mwo ivers .............................. 4.74
75S Ce den Bowl ........................ .... 5.77 646 D etropolitan ............................ 4.72
729
········ 5.75 681 Mo~ Palos·············· -··············· 4.72
467 Cu~~~)ty························
5.73 783
···-··················I
.
T
4.7 J
5f8 L nang e ··························· ····· 5.71
643 AI~!a
&X>
ma ·····················-········· 4.68
H .
764
5.68
195 B~~i:oc:i.
208 R·eri~~e ···-·························-····· 4.68
d!sta ·····-·-··············· ·-······ 4.67
6f2 La y ·-································ 5.64 547
Sc umbre ····-··················· - 5.64 290 E ca 1a ···-··············--···-····-· 4 .66
aos Deepter
-··-······---············-··········· 5.61
776 E:~: «v~~tti;;···············-············ 4.6
l09
·-··-························ 5.60 773
Alano-622
iejon .............. :::::::::::::::::::::::::: u~
'63 Otwater ·---·-···················-· 5.60 785 R~~=~ttunt
4.59
5.55
················
222
127 c.c!al -·-·········-····
Sacrame~t~-----·-··············-··-··· 455
9
5.4
40
······
·········-·············
Beach
Dang
16S
·-··· 4.50
·························
sAan Gabriel..........
5.46
.................... 4.50
85 Mn~~· Weller........................ 5.40 546
645
···········
--·····-············
I
e
eu
M
tt2
~ F.8E. Irwin..···-··················· 450
~~~olia -·-··········-········-··-- 5.30 391
st elt ··-···--·············-······ 4.47
437
ty -········-············ ··--······ 5.29
5.2
..
4.46
........................
est Covina
9 586
·······················- · 4.46

Bequests in the amount of $153,029.00 were received into the Homes
Endowment Fund during the past year. This is in addition to a similar
amount of bequests which were received by the Homes Board of
Trustees, which did not specify the Endowmen t Fund in the Will.
An ever~increasing number of our brethren and their families are
providing in their Wills for a bequest to the Masonic Homes and/or
the Homes Endowment Fund. Such bequests become a final and lasting tribute to Masonic Charity, and truly leave Masonic "foot-prints
in the sands of time."
INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATI ON

123,854 brethren made contribution s to the Homes Endowment
Fund this year, for an increase of 5,658 above a year ago. This is 51 %
participatio n-up from 18 % the previous year.
The number of contributors has been steadily increasing each year,
and this is the first time it has passed the "half-way" point, percentagewise.
IND!VIDUAL CoNTRIBUTI ONS THROUGH LooGES

Individual contribution s this year amounted to $846,895.0 0-for an
increase of $63 .555.00 above a year ago. This is a percentage increase
of 8%.
The average amount per contributor was $6.84-up from $6.63 the
previous year. The over-all average per member was $3.16--up from
$3.20 a year ago.
The total amount contributed is particularly gratifying when it is
remembered that this is a voluntary program, and that each brother
decides for himself if he shall give and how much he shall give.
HoNoR RoLL STATUS

Honor Roll status of $2 per member average was attained by 652
Lodges this year, or 92 % of all Lodges. However, the $2 Honor Roll
is considered as only a minimum achievemen t. obta inable by all Lodges.
It is a base or foundation from which to build to greater heights. It is
a starting-poi nt or "stepping~stone" or "mile~pos t" from which to meas-ure the distance between a minimum and maximum accomplishm enL
$3 OR MORE AVERAGE PER MEMBER
A much higher achievemen t is for the Lodges to be in the special
listing of Lodges which average $3 or more per member, listed according to average, and to be as high as possible on that list. To these
Lodges we give our extra s pecial thanks a nd congratulati ons. Last yeta
there were 397 Lodges on this list. This year there are 451, as follows:

~nc!~ · :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~~

69

enp

Hi1 J~rr~~gh··:::::::::::::::::::::::::: :·~~

~ncBr~a··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :: ~:~g

~~~aeii~:--~:::::::~::::::::::::::: : ::~: i:H

r:,mo ··········... ......... . ....

c

····-···························

L:i ·········-·······-············-····

Aro

5

···············-··········-··

w

~:~=~tGr~-~~·-··-·····················

70

No.
41i

542
789
21
26
273
612
144

322
728
772
477
615
616
379
614
760

611
644
482
I

483
672
602
383

697
188

372
589
742

753
320

368

418
173
528
720

436

543

745

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Arlington ----··-·················---·--···· 4.43
North Hollywood····---------···---- 4.42
Oak Plains ····················---------- 4.42
Hawaiian -·--·-···················--·--·--- 4.40
El Dorado ······-···-----·---------··-·--· 4 .39
Anchor ...................................... 4.39
Temple City ······················-···· 4.38
Oriental ···-····-···········----·-··--·· 4.35
Alhambra.................................. 4.34
Lakewood ................................ 4.34
Avenal ----------··························· 4.33
Temblor ···························--------· 4.31
Hemet........................................ 4.31
R. E. Dolley... ·-····-···-·----·········- 4.31
Fillmore ···-·················--------------· 4.30
Larchmont ................................ 4.30
Lakeside ·---································ 4.30

~~~f: :::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: gi
Clarence F. Smith....................
California -·-··············---·······-·
Bell ------····················-··-······-----Laguna Beach ---············-··-·-·-···
Melrose ....................................
Orosi ········--····-·-········--·······-----Saint Elmo ................................
Oakland ··-··········-···········-···-----Gardena -·-··----·················-----·---Kauai ........................................
Morningside Park ....................
Lawndale ··--·--······················----·
South Gate ·······················------

4.28

4.27
4.27
4.27
4.26
4.25
4.23
4.22
4.20
4.20
4.20

4.20
4.19

No.

81
259
358
593
198
425

~~~~~~itl~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~~

8 10 Victoria Palms ........................
192 Santa Barbara ·······--·······--------267 Galt ..........................................
87 N aval--································---·
334 Covina ......................................
376 Francis Drake··--··-···-·············-762 Coastside ..................................
744 San Leandro ····-·---------··--·------··
314 T emescal ············-----·--·····.........
506 Mount Olive ----··············-·-------659 La Habra ------------······················
629 F airview ·······-····------·--------------60 Plumas ---------·-·--····-·-·--····-·····
390 Imperial ······················-····------·
415 Silver Trowel···-···········-----·--·
324 Corona ····-··--·-····················-····
716 Belmont Shore ···················-··
226 San Mateo ................................
594 Service ............... ······-·········--

4.16
4.15
4.15
4.14
4.14
4.14
4.14

402

352
448

537
723

639
666
807

5
504
738
706

707
656
715

539
194

357
428

575
641
120
217
106

329
410

451
503
325

441
515

630
417

458
101
647

57

4.13

601
143
585

4.12

592
634
660

4.12
4.12
4.11
4.10

4.10
4.10
4.09
4.09
4.08
4.08

~~:~Su~-~::::=::==::=::::::::=::::::: !:~

560
730
771 M ission Bay ............................ 4.05

~~~~~~;:: : : : : : : : : : : : :~: : : !: l~ 191

Beverly Hills............................ 4.17
Mineral King······················-----· 4.17
C laremont -·-············-·--··-·-··-····· 4.16

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Yolo ·····-·--············--··················· 4.07
Evergreen ................................ 4.07
Golden State............................ 4.07
All States ------------······················ 4.07
Wilmington········---··················· 4.06
Holtville ···················-·····-···-·-·--· 4.06

709
16

434
670
377
688

~~~;;::...:::::=:::=:::=:::=::::::::::::: !:gj

Mt. Diablo ----------······················
Utopia ·---········--····-···················
Acalancs ..................................
Composite ................................
Reseda ···············----···················
Conejo Valley..........................
Benicia ......................................
Seaside ···········------····················
Arvin ........................................
Hunters Point Naval................
Lake Tahoe..............................
Citro! ........................................
Magnolia Park ........................
Belvedere ..................................
Mountain View ........................
Buena Park ----··························
San Dimas ··--···----·····················
Fort Crook ..............................
James A. Foshay......................
Fidelity ·······---···-···················
Monterey ·--···-·-·-··--···················
Arcata -------···························--·
Marin ........................................
V a llee de France......................
Charter Rock ·····-----····--·-··········
Montebello ---···········-····-------····
Point ..........................................
Consuelo ···················-····-----·····
Coronado ····---·--·····-····--·····-····
Vermont Square············----······
Ingleside ..................................
Clovis ···----···--··-··········-·-·-······
Henry S. Orme........................
C lay -··········-········--·····-···---------··
Hawthorne ····--·····---············-·
Santa Rosa -----···-----·-·-----------Gri:z:zly -------------········-·····-----·
Franklin -·--·····-----·-··--··········-----·
'M anchester ····----·--·----··············
Tujunga --·····-····------····-··----------Victorville -·····---·············-········Baldwin Park ····---··········-·--·--··
Lorenzo -----------···---·--·············-Eureka ----·---··----------·------·-··--··
Maricopa ···--·-----·-················-·
Greenleaf ···--··························-Artesia ············------·········-··-·····
Oildale ···-··-····-···--······--·-·

4.02
4.02
4.02

4.01

4.01
4.01
4.00
4.00
4.00
3.99

3.98
3.97
3.97
3.96
3.95
3.95
3.93
3.93
3.92
3.90
3.88
3.85
3.85
3.85
3.85
3.85
3.84
3.83
3.83
3.83
3.83

3.79
3.79
3.78
3.77
3.75
3.75
3.74
3.74
3.74
3.74
3.74
3.73
3.71
3.71
3.71
3.70
3.70

Average
amount
No.
Lodge
per member
387 Coalinga .................................. 3.69
39i University ---······----···-·-············· 3.69

!~ ~~~l~se_ :::::::::::::::::::::··::::::::::::: ~:~~

291
598
80
535
756
702
558
6('f}

677
590
212
293
471
572
61
435
544
635
696
186
703
492
559
627
457
303
430
20
193
335
421
604
653
777
652
732
804
393
405

25
371
784
328
505
711
741
330
367
408

519
237

299

22i
447
i84

Santa Paula···········---··----·········Pearl H arbor ················--·--------Ione ..........................................
.Alexander Hamilton --·--···········
Clayton Valley---·················-·
Rosemead ..................................
Point Firmin ···········------·--········
Provident --------···------·······-····----·
Liberal Arts ···················----·······
Compass ..................................
South San Francisco................
Orange G rove ---·········-·------···-··
Delta ....................... .. .............
James Madison -····---------··········
Live Oak ·····----····-·-·····-···-----···Fairmount ................................
Glendalc ·················-···-------········
Riverside ..................................
Crossroads ................................
E vening Star ............................
Westchester ------·····-··---······-·--Garvanza ························---·-·····
Craftsman ................................
Lamanda Park ----·-----------··········
Ramona ....................................
Porterville ··············--------··········
McCloud -····················-·········
Washington -·-----·-·-··········--···
Ferndale ....................................
West Gate----~-----·-··-··········
Inglewood ··········--··-------······---·Jubilee ·········------·······················
Fontana ....................................
Pinnacle ······················---···········
Crescenta Valley ------·······------·
San Juan ..................................
Moreno Valley------·--·--············
Balder ·········-·--··-·············-·-···----·
Moneta ......................................
Georgetown ..............................
le Progres de l'Oceanie..........
Leland Stanford ···········----···-···
Redondo ...................... ..............
Silver Cord ..............................
Rim of the World....................
Tyre·-····································---·
Kilauea ......................................
South Pasadena ·········-·-··········
Sierra Madre ·---·-·----·····-········-··
Euclid ........................................
Guadalupe ····----···-··················
Liberty ......................................
Bakersfield ................................
Torrance ..................................
Albert Pike ..............................

3.68
3.68
3.67
3.67
3.67
3.65
3.64
3.64
3.64
3.63
3.62
3.62
3.61
3.61
3.60
3.60
3.60
3.60
3.60
3.59
3.59
3.58
3.58
3.58
3.57
3.56
3.56
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.54
3.54
3.54
3.53
3.52

3.51
3.51

3.51
3.50
3.50
3.50
3.50
3.48
3.48

3.48
3.48
3.47
3.47
3.46
3.46
3.46

71

Average
amount
No.
Lodge
per member
127 Hermann ···············---------·--······ 3.45
168 Redwood City .......................... 3.45
763 Arabic ·································--··· 3.45
792 Millbrae .................................... 3.45
605 Glassell Park ········-····--···------·-·· 3.43
462 Paul Revere ··························--·· 3.42
683 Redwood Empire···-------------·-·· 3.42
712 Los Altos ············-·--··---········-···- 3.42
64 Natoma .................................... 3.41
131 Woodbridge ······················--·· 3.41
684 Trana ·················----··················- 3.41
181 Russian River ····-···········---------- 3.40
286 Paso Robles .............................. 3.40
502 Harbor ............. ·········-··-··-----····· 3.40
507 El Segundo··········-----------·······-- 3.40
648 Damascus ................................ 3.40
203 Confidence ··················----······---- 3.39
43 Hiram ·················-·-····-----------····· 3.37
399 Fraternity ···························----- 3.37
400 Burlingame ··················-··-··----- 3.36
4-H Carpinteria ·········---···-------------- 3.36
523 Bellflower .................................. 3.36
574 S. W . Hackett......................... 3.36
214 San Buenaventura ------··-········ 3.35
407 La Mesa .................................... 3.35
603 Dimond .................................... 3.35
384 El Centro ·······················-·--·--·--· 3.34
678 Altadcna ···········-··---------·····------ 3.33
801 Koolau ...................................... 3.33
295 Mount Jackson ················----···· 3.32
297 Dunsmuir ·············--··--------··-····-· 3.32
128 Visalia ...................................... 3.31
563 South Park ···········-········------ 3.31
673 Far West .................................. 3.31
42 Los Angeles ·········---··---·-··········· 3.30
139 Crockett --·-········-····-············-·· 3.29
446 La Puente ····················---------··· 3.29
552 Semper Virens ........................ 3.29
701 Santa Ynez V alley.................. 3.29
757 Channel ···························--·-----· 3.29
113 Eden ················-·····-··············-··-· 3.28
207 Ana heim ·-·-··········------·········------· 3.28
347 McKinley .................................. 3.28
549 Justice ····-······-·················-·------·· 3.28
584 Harding .................................... 3.27
708 Seafaring ·················-················ 3.27
749 Merced .......... ........................... 3.27
381 Oceanside ····-···--······-----··········· 3.26
403 Yerba Buena ............................ 3.26
479 Golden Rule ............................ 3.26
579 Warren G. Harding................ 3.26
694 San Antonio ............................ 3.25
718 San Lorenzo ValleY--···········-·· 3.25
35 San Diego ................................ 3.24
565 West Adams ............................ 3.24
588 El Sereno ··············-····-·········-··-· 3.24
617 Big Bear .............. ...................... 3.24
752 Luther Burbank ·····-···············-·· 3.2i
123 Sotoyome ·······························-·- 3.23

72

No.
93
321
339
562
636
655
676
258
478
480
714
719
132
571
787
245
304
306
576
581
587
799
380
649
679

234
374
145
215
369
522
262
333
618
705
795
2.36
520
50
205
382
613
798
315
396
397
690
725
218
346
815

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
St. Helena ··------··-··· ·····-····-·-···· 3.22
Alisa! ··---·-----------------·---------------- 3.22
Fullerton ----·--------··--·····---·····--·· 3.22
Pyramid ________ .... ........ . ........
3.22
John M;irsh11!! ······-···-··············· 3.22
Monte Vista --------··-··········-······ 3.22
Willow Glrn ............................ 3.22
Pcnrhyn . ...... .... .. . . ...
3.21
Thousand Oaks --··-······----------· 3.21
Fellowship·····················-·········· 3.21
Blue Lakes----·-·····-···················· 3.21
Estcro ----·········-·····-.................... 3.21
Sincerity ·············-··················· 3.20
Francis K. Shattuck.................. 3.20
W estminstcr ·---·---··-··--············· 3.20
Laurel ····--······················--·········· 3.19
Reedley ·····-····························· 3.19
Ash la r ---------------------------··· .. . . ... . 3.19
EI Cajon Valley........................ 3.19
Security ..................... . ..
3.19
Valley Forge........ .................. 3.19
Claircmont Mesa -··········--······· 3.19
Huntington Beach.................... 3.18
Florence ....... .... .... ................ 3.18
Canby Cross ............................ 3.18
Hope ···········--·····-··-·················· 3.17
Jewel·-·········-·---·····-·-·--··-···-···---·· 3.17
Vitruvius ·····--···---·······-· ..·········· 3.16
Oak Grove .............................. 3.16
O cean Park····-···-·····--·-·······-···· 3.16
Sunris<' -···-····-············-··--------··--- 3.16
Lompoc ···········-------·----·-------···-- 3.15
Alta ......
.. .. 3.15
Southland -·--·-------------·------···-··· 3.15
El Cerrito .. .... . .......
3.15
American River ·············-······-· 3.15
Hills Ferry ---------·····-····---········ 3.14
Ionic --·-·-···-·-···-···-··--·--·-········ .. ·· 3.14
Forbestown ·---··-····---···-············ 3.13
Olivet ........... . ........ ............... 3.13
Highland Park -···---------------·--·- 3.13
Three Pillars ............................ 3.13
Ashland --------------··---·······--········ 3.13
Norwalk .................................. 3.12
Apollo ............ . ............... ... . 3.12
Rising Light ----····--·-·-----·-·-····· 3.12
San Carlos ····················---··---·-·· 3.12
Saint John"s ·---·················--....... 3.12
Mosaic: ...................................... 3.11
Palo Alto ·····----··· .. ...........
3.1 l
Mount Baldy······-··········--·-·---··· 3.10

No.
265
375
530
582
746
356
424
469

577
628
818
30
211

497
545
345
626
667
Ill
150
216
243
351
486
722

775

8
409
654
65
336

344

349
389
395

221
317
7(14
58
79
104
209
89
555
570
651
668
724
770
803

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
Orland ........
3.09
Richmond ------···------··········----·--·· 3.09
Sun Garden---···--·-----·--······------- 3.09
Rialto ...................... ... .. ........... . 3.09
Soquel ......... .. ............. .. ... . 3.09
Mill Valley ------·····--···------········ 3.08
Exeter ...................................... 3.08
Yorba Linda ............................ 3.08
Sunnyside ................................ 3.08
Truth ···············----------····-··-------- 3.08
Great Lights ··--·--·-···········-······· 3.08
Golden Gate ·--··-······· ..···----······ 3.07
San Benito ---····--·-----···-··---------·· 3.07
Fremont .................................... 3.07
V eritas-J onathon ···············----- 3.07
Brentwood-------------···----····--······ 3.06
Chula Vist;i ·-·-···---·-·········--------- 3.06
Meridan ·····-····--·-·-·······-·-··---·---- 3.06
Chico ·--·-·---------------·········--·-··---· 3.05
Molino----·········-··--··-···------······-- 3.05
Doric ---·········-·-·-·············-·--·····- 3.05
Eucalyptus __________ .................... 3.05
Pa1es tine ···------------··--··-·-· ----. ·--- 3.05
Caledonia·····---··----····-·-····---··---- 3.05
George E. TutL .......... ----·------- 3.05
San Oieguito ----····-···-···-·---------- 3.05
Tuolumne ···-·-------·······--··---·---- 3.04
Honolulu -···-------·············-···--·--- 3.04
Jordan ···-···--·-··-----------------· ··----- 3.04
Amador --·-··-·-.····------····-----······· 3.03
Fruitvale ----···--·---···············--·--· 3.03
Starr King ··-----------------·-·---·--···· 3.03
Sequoia .................................. .. 3.03
Palos Verdes -----········ .. ------------- 3.03
Turlock -··--···-·---------·------------···· 3.03
Inyo ......................................... . 3.02
Fallbrook ···---···--·--············-···--·· 3.02
Orinda ---·-·--------------------------······ 3.02
Union ........................................ 3.01
Humboldt ······------····-·····-------·--·· 3.01
3.01
Lexington ................ . .
King David's---------·--·--·· -------···· 3.01
Rose· s Bar ····------···········--·-··-···· 3.00
White Pine ----·····------------~----·--­ 3.00
Military Service ----------------··.. ·• 3.00
Menlo Park ................
3.00
San Gorgonio ......................... . 3.00
San Ramon Valley............... .. 3.00
Lake Chabot ------------------------·-·· 3.00
The Gabilan ----------···-·------------- 3.00

SPECIAL HoNoR DISTRICTS

All Lodges in the following Districts averaged $4.00 or more per
member :
District
Inspector
504 James E. Bacon
516 Vlilliam W. D ickson. Jr.
532 Lawrence C. Lamb
552 Burton fyieyer, Jr.

District
Inspector
562 Robert A. Simon
566 Erwin H . Gebhardt
588 Robert E. Crist
594 Fred F. Elliott ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

73

All Lodge·s in the following Districts averaged $3.00 or more per
member:
District
Inspector
J 18 Roy L. Payne
214 Jacob Feth
216 Edward E. Seag le
219 A. Boyd Collier
307 Joseph W. Wright
336 William F. Poynter
338 Robert M. Mon tgomer y
.361 Alfred Johnson
364 John Burszan, Jr.
365 E. Ross Baylis
367 Edward C. Will
368 John J. \Villiams
378 John Behrens
384 Charles H. McAllister
430 J. Clifton Carpenter
508 Ray H. Paine
522 Ray L. Peterson
524 Frank W. Raddatz
526 George E. H arrison
530 T. W m. Heidner
538 Mark E. Schrock
540 Arnold G. Robertson
546 Jules D es Forges

District
Inspector
548 George W. P erkins
554 Arthur Linsk
556 A lfred J. Na vin
5 58 Lloyd V. Smith
560 Frederic Edwin Clark
564 C harles K. Schertle
570 E lvin C . Drake
572 T homas J. McKimson
576 W illiam A . Fishback
580 Louis H. Mahler
582 William Robusch
586 John A. Owen
592 James D. Kelso
596 Claudis Thos. Shirley
603 Earl Moore Vigus
612 James H. Weller
614 Ted R. Siems
6 16 \Villiam H. Price
618 Wayne C. Bates
622 Joh n H. Ferguson
634 Kenneth B. Conklin
636 Kenneth C. Stanley

We give special recognition and thanks to the above Inspectors and
their Lodges for such a consistently fine record for the Endowment.
Many other Districts missed being on this list by a very small margin.
Many other Inspectors expended as much or more interest and effort
as t~os_e .listed above, but their efforts were reflected in the figures of
the md1v~dual Lo~ges, rather than the District figures. Such Inspectors
also receive out smcere thanks and appreciation.
LooGES WITH LARGEST AMOUNTS OF CoNTRIBUTIONS

No.

Lodge
Amount
623 Menorah -··----· ....................$7,966.03
~~~ Hollywood ------···---------------·· 6.095.59
Van Nuys ---·-·-·--····------···-· 5,751.02
220 Downey --------·-------····-·····-··· 5,048.00
5~ Guardian·---······-··---··-----------· 4 .857.92
542 Nava l ·········-·-----------····---····· 4 .689.88
North Hollywood ·······------- 4.536.4 7
335 West Gate ----··-··--·-----··· .. ···· 4,175.79
2723 Tehama -----·----·-----------·········· 4,090.00
529 Pasadena ---·-··-···············-·--- 3,842.88
506 Loyalty ................ ............... 3,8 15.50
Mount Olive---·· .. ·-------··------- 3.720.90
591 Service ----···-------·------------····- 3,698.89
10 Sacramento----···-·-·-······-------- 3,672.00

No.
42
513
483
327
670
35
600
3 19
392
525
·H2
20
61

Lodge
Amount
Los Angeles ........................ 3.605.01
Ca huenga ·---------------·······--··· 3.527.23
Bell ..... ... ............................ 3 .429.06
Long Beach --------------·-------·· 3,390.06
Greenleaf ··-·------··-···-------·-··· 3,365.48
San Diego ---------·········-------··· 3,268.45
Lynwood ·---------------·-------·--··· 3.225.83
Hollenbeck --------·-·····----------- 3.219.51
West Lake --------------·---···--··· 3. 201.09
George 'Nashington --------·· 3. ! 13.50
Blackmer---····-···--·--··-········--- 3, ! 11.22
Washington -----·--················ 3.105.08
Live Oak ······---------···---------- 3,044-75

PRINTED ITEMS FOR PUBLICITY

. Again this year, the Lodges ordered more than 1Yi million printed
items from the Endowment Board , for sending to the members, to

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"inform the brethren" about our Homes and encourage them to make
periodic contributions to the Homes Endowment Fund. These items
are furnished to the Lodges, upon their order only. without a direct
charge to the Lodge.
Primarily, these printed items contain factual information about our
Homes and authentic pictures of the Homes and the children and
elderlies who live therein, on the assumption that an "informed" membership will become a "giving" membership.
In addition to disseminating information, the items serve as reminders to contribute and some, such as the contribution envelopes, make it
easier for the brethren to contribute. A large percentage of the budget
allotted to this Board is used in the printing and distribution of the
printed items.
SPECIAL HOMES E NDOWMENT MEETI NGS

Again this year, a number of " District" or "area" meetings were
held throughout California, and arra nged by the Inspectors and local
Lodge Officers. In most such meetings, M .W . Edward H . Siems, Grand
Secretary and Secretary of the Endowment Board, was the principal
speaker and members of the Endowment Board also participated.
In each meeting the entire time was devoted to information about
the various phases and activities of our Masonic Homes, much of which
information is difficult to include in printed information.
Some of the meetings were primarily for Lodge Officers, Lodge
Endowment committeemen and other interested brethren, but some of
them were "family night" meetings w ith the ladies present, that they
too might learn more .about our Masonic Homes.
These meetings were very enlightening and helpful. and it is hoped
that more of them will be arranged for the coming year.
IN CONCLUSION

It is obviously impossible to give due credit and adequate thanks to
everyone who participated in some way in the Homes Endowment program during the past year but we do give an all-inclusive and sincere
thanks and express our appreciation to all in general and to a few in
particular :
To M .W . Theodore Meriam, Grand Master, who expressed his
interest and support of the Endowment program at every opportunity:
To M.W. Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary and Verne W . Hendrix,
Assistant Grand Secretary, together with all members of their staff, all
of whom have so willingly and ably given their support all year;
To Harold N . Richards, G rand Lecturer, who always showed an
enthusiastic interest and support of the Homes Endowment in his
Division while he was an Assistant Grand Lecturer, and has now been
extending that interest and support to the whole Jurisdiction since his
elevation to the Office of Grand Lecturer last January;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

75

To the A ssistant Grand Lecturers and Inspectors who assist so
greatly in the Endowment program by giving encouragement, counsel
and advice to the Lodge Officers and otherwise assisting them in attaining a higher achievement for the Homes Endowment;
To the Masters, Wardens, Secretaries and Lodge Endowment committeemen. for it is they who have the direct contact with the Lodge
members, and upon whom falls the very great amount of work and
responsibility for the success of the Endowment program in their Lodge
in particular and in the Jurisdiction in general, and especially the devoted
work of the Secretary of the Lodge who, in many cases, sends out most
of the printed matter and receives the contributions, issuing the receipts
and making the reports thereof;
To the Board of Trustees of the Homes, and to Superintendents
Robert M. Henry and Gail H . David and their wives and staff members,
who cons tantly administer to the daily needs, comforts and happiness
of the children and the elderlies-the end result of the H omes Endowment program;
And last. but certainly not least, to the I 23,854 brethren who made
cash contributions to the Endowment Fund this year: and still others
who have remembered the M asonic Homes in their Wills.
All of the above have shared in one way or a nother in the responsibilities and sacrifices of the Endowment program and now may sha re
in the rdlected Glory of True Masonic Charity.
Respectfully submitted,
THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
JoHN M . GORDON, Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON,

Vice-Chairman (South)
KENT 0 . SEYMOUR, Vice-Chairman (North)
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
EDWARD H . SIEMS, PG.M ., Secretary
Referred to Committee on Finance.

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BOARD MEMBERS

INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION

TERMS EXPIRING

1965

J. GLEN GLADSON

1966
GEORGE Q . EVANS

RALPH
HINE
GEORGE
POLOYNIS
CHARLES R.
RATKOVICH
GEORGE P.
CALDERWOOD
NORMAN
SHAW,

KERMIT A . JACOBSON
CHARLES F . M1NETTI
W. W. RAYBURN
WILLIAM GEHA
C. R AYMOND
WrNTERHALDER
GEORGE BECKER

c.
c.

}R.

w.

1967
M. EDWARD ALLRED
}oHN M . G oRDON
GEORGE E. BERRESFORD
}AMES K. WILSON
WILLIAM M . CONNER
KENT
SEYMOUR
FRANK R. PORATH

o.

Year
No. of Members
I 958 .................................................. 81 .686
1959 .................................................. 93,425
1960 ------·-······---·---------·········--····-----· 100,220
I 961 .................................................. 109, 733
1962 -----------------·--·--······---------·-·--------· 113,346
I 963 -----·------·---········---·····---------------- 116,339
1964 .................................................. 118.196
1965 .................................................. 123,854
HONOR ROLL LODGES

EVERETT S. Tooo
MEMORIALS

Year
Amount
1958 ·····································------- $ 3,627.75
1959 ............................................
3,977 .90
1960 ............................................
6,610.60
1961 ............................................ I 0,980.50
1962 ------------·------------------------------· 10,388.46
1963 -------------------------------------------- 13, 144.00
1964 --------------·--·····"·-······-----------· 13.266.69
1965 ............................................ 13.193.00
CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LooGES

Year
Amount
1958 .......................................... $421.633.62
1959 ·-··----------·-------------- ··----· .. ··-- 502.120.43
1960 .......................................... 551,150.34
1961 --------········--····-------·--········-- 645,453.76
1962 .......................................... 696, 78 7.15
1963 .......................................... 741 ,241 .47
1964 ·----------------------------------·--·--- 783.339.94
1965 .......................................... 846.895.50
GIFTS FROM ALL SOURCES

Year
Amount
1958 ------·------------------------------- $ 589,730.78
1959 --------------·-·----·---·-------···---945,762.32
1960 -----·---------·---------------------952, I 27. 49
1961 ...................................... 1,293.941.59
1962 -------········-----------------·······- 1,051,007.96
1963 ........................................ 1.024, I 40.77
1964 ........................................
908,580.40
1965 .......... .............................. 1,318,574.00

Year
No. of Lodges
1958 ···---------------········ ·-- ·---···--··········--··---- 365
1959 ··-···--····-----·······-······-----------·············· 453
1960 ........................................................ 502
1961 ........................................................ 573
1962 ........................................................ 616
I 963 ----·--------····-·---------------·------·-··········--- 644
1964 ........................................................ 637
1965 ----------------·--·····---·----------·-----·---···----· 652
$3 OR MORE A VERA GE

Year
No. of Lodges
1958 ---------------------·--·--·---··--------------········· 36
I 959 ...................................................... 79
I 960 ........................................................ I I 8
1961 ··--·----------------------·--···---····--·····--------- 184
I 962 ........................................................ 269
I 963 ----------·····--···----------------··········--········ 346
1964 ........................................................ 395
1965 ........................................................ 454

77

78

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

'ENDOWMENT FUND

HEHORTAL~

July l. 1964 - June JO, 1965
(The Lodge designation indicates c onnection by
in t erest but not necessarily by membership )
GIFTS AND DONATIONS
£STATES :

HISC .

J ames Benda
Hans B, Berg (Oakland Lodr,e 1188)
John F. Boyer
Anna C. Brooks
Ol iver I!. Clark
Ste phen R. Coffee ( Yerba 9uena Lod ge 1403)
Alfred T. Cooke
Jeanette E. Daley
Anna H. Dayton
Bessie Decker
Edward Eriksen
Charles M. f reeman
Myrtle L. Gainer
Margaret w. Goodrich
Charles L. Holbrook
Walter F. Hundermer
Hortense B. Laughlin
Habel I. Padelford
Phillip Prell
James Jacob Reams
Raabe Estate
Bertha Sherwood (Southern California LodRe 1278)
Virgil Kenneth Shimer
Erne st Slaughter
Albert J. Strei (Presidio Lodge f354)
Or vi lle C. Swee ney
William Von Tobel
Astrid E. Wall a c e
Henrietta lleckerl y
Herman H. Williams

79

$

5,927.35
39 , 847.00
~2,l54.18
1 0 ,~12,52

2,424.70
3,383 , 29
1,000.00
4,122.17
l,000.00
2,000.00
1,000.DO
2, 708.31
37,091. 71
3,24 2 .21
8,394.07
100.00
147,135. 7l
25,272.22
23,899,46
211,322,90
1,140 . 00
1,068.90
7,805.57
349 .00
2,250.00
4, 931.88
1,000 ,00
7,812.54
3 8 ,5 87 .9~

2,445.10

C. G. Akins
Mas onic Clubs "Assist" -Warwick Electronics
Council of Av iation Sq . Club
Edward L. Baehr
f riendly Valley Sq . Club
Al Bahr Temple
Hamilton AFB Hi - Twelve Club
Bakersfield S.R.~.
Hoffman Elect.Corp. - CornerstoneCl .
Rohr Square & Compass Club
The Bunker -Ramo Corp."OF"
Officers Ma sonic Dist.324
Stephen Corbett
Coxco, Inc.
Orde r of Golden Slipper, M.H.C.
Culver City Charity Club
Beth Chapter
Daleth Chapt e r
E. J, David
Ernest B. DeLeon
Re sh Chaf)ter
Firestone Co. Employees
Vau Chapter
Paci fi c Pr<!ss Employees'
Harry Geballe
Hrs. Fred J . Palmer
General Teleohone Co.
Raytheon Compa ny Employees
Mr.& Mrs. Charles Gibbs
Howard N. Gilmor<!
Victor Robi nson
Norman Rose
Mr.& Hrs . Fred Haisley
R. Merritt Rowland
William J . Hall
Humbolt Chp.152 , R,A,M,
San Die P,o Chp . 161, R.A.H .
Ionic Founda tion
San Bernardino PH As s ociation
Hrs. G<!rtrude r . Schumacker
E. Jukowi cz
Librascop., Aid Club
Space Tech. Laboratories, Inc.
United Charities Fd ., Lynwood
Mr. ' Mrs. K, Mcfarl a nd
Robert J. Mahan
W.J . Voit Rubber Corp. - Emp'loyees
Mobil Oil C~.- tmp l oyees
Western Contract furnishers
L<!slie E. Woodworth
C, C. Mou lthrop
DcMolay 11047, Grass Valley

Robert Blum
Zella B. Aarup
Mrs . Rose Blum
Robert S . Abe r nethy
William J. Boaz
William N. Adams
Geor13e H . BORP,.S
James Adamson , Sr .
Stanley C. Aitchison , Sr.Embert S. Bond
John T. Bond
Karl G. Albus chkat
J ames L. Borland
James L. Alcorn
Carl R. Alexander
Christonher B. Bouton
Adol ph i·ln . 9oyken
Clias C. Alexa nde r
Edwi n R. 9radbury
Ueldor a V. Altimus
Laura B. Brann
Thomas L. Ambrose
Bertram A. 9r aunton
Clarence l . A.~es
Belen Bray
Carl K. Amick
Carl Oti 5 Brenner
Henry P. Andresen
11.E. "Andy" Anderson
Jack Brenner
IJaniel J, 8re5laue r
Gus Andreatta
Katherine Brower
Hrs. Hedwi r, Apel
Elizaheth Brown
Hrs. Car l Appleton
Flor e nce Brown
Oavid c. Ar eeeer
John J ames llrown
Emma Arms trong
Oliver E, 9rown
Harry B, Armst r onP,
Thomas J. Ar undel!
Lester G. ~rown el l
Hartin f, Br yan
Charles H. Ashton
frank T. ijuchanan
William r. Asman
J esse B. Budd , Jr.
rrank R. Ass i n
Carlton T, Aver
Eli zabe th 9urdick
John T. Avery
Haro l d E. ~u rson
John R. Bushias
Horton J. Sachra ch
Hrs. Fl ore nce A. Bader
Richard C, Buss
r. F. Badoux
Harold r.. Butl<!r
Harry H. Baier
Charles H. Byerrum
Dave Bailey
\Jal t er Calla han
He rvyn Ca mp
Rupert w. Bai ley
Daniel H. Campbel l
Walter E. Ba iley
Charles l!aker
Homer W. Campbell
JAJ11es· Baker
Amy Campbell
Hrs. Mary Baker
Wm, T. B. Campbell
Hrs. Ama nda Ca r e y
Charles l!al den
Herman V. Ban zet
Hrs. Ha r~u erit e Care y
Clarence E. Barker
Wilfr ed N. Carlile
Laurel K. Barnard
Robe r t S , Carnachan
Otis Carrington
Guy F. Barnhart
Hrs. Hazel Barth e
Albert E. Carroll
Arthur r. Bartholomew
Frank L. Carroll
Frank A, Cermak
Walter · ! . Barton
Armand Ce1'0lani
Kaye B. Ba sker
Herry Chambers
Kenneth S. Battelle
Hrs. Amy K. Bat tershi ll Hubert Chand ler
R.Bayajian's Mother
r.. L. Chase
Mrs. Charles Beamer
Louis w. Chaudet,Sr.
Robert E. Beck
Jane T. Chism
Samuel C. Becker
Edward K. Church
James G. Belford
Charles Clapp
Harian Clapp
Edgar T. Bell
Richard 0 . Bell
Fred H. Clar k
Hrs. Amy Belli
Alice J. Cla yberger
-Archie C. Berry
Rufus E. Cl e l a nd
Marion Clemens
Soren J . Bertelsen
Hrs. Sus a n T. Bickel
Willi am B, Clement
William F. Bieh l
Frederick C. Clements
Paul Bi grieg
Manning Clements
James B, Blac k
J ohn Cloyd, Sr .
William c. Bl ake(Hrs .l
Wi lliam C. Cobb
Charles Blank
J ohn W, Cobby
Clifford A. Blauert
Robert S. Coffman
L, Jack Block , Sr .
Arthur Cohen

Claude E. Cole
William L. Cole
John II . Collins
Edwin L. Collyer
Roy H. Combs
Wa lter J . Cook
Ruby Coon
David W. Cooper
~h ilip R. Corrin
Joseoh Cox
Wi ll i. am Craik
Wil l iam K. Crawford
Robert Crensh aw
J ess i e L. Crilley
Mary E. Critchlow
Ot t o H. Cronacher
Raloh H. Cross
l\oy · V. Crowe 11
John R. Cu lberts on
c. A. Dacqu ist o
Fred Dah l qu ist
Ga rret C. Daley
Hrs. Hi l dred Daley
Georp,e B. Danbacher
Ha r old E. Da nford
Jenn ie Davi s
L<!e L. Dawson
Wi ll i a m Deans
Alexander de Brette ville
George w. Decker
John '.lilliam Dew
C. Haro l d de Witt
Fred B. Dickey
Richard C.Diebenkorn
Lilly H. Doble
Charles Doll
Rudolph A. Donatelli
Aure l io G. Dondero
Henry A. Doty
Geor~e W. Dowrie
Hr. ' Hrs . Drake
James E. Dunn
Isa ac f, Ea~le
Geo. W. Easton
Edward J, Edwa rds
Wa lter England
Mrs. Agnes Eng l e
Elizabeth Engstrand
A. A. Erickson
Frit z Erickson
Charles A. Ertola
William Ervin
J ames N. Eschen
John II. Evans
Theodore w. rach
John Farrell
Victor S.Fechheimer
Hax Fedde
Charles L. Feil
C. E. Fernandes
Gracian B.Fernandez
Will ie Fischer
W. R. Fitzpatri ck
Lawre nce S , flet cher
John J. Flick
Wil l iam J. Fo llett

80

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

81

MEMORIALS (Contin ued)
G. E. Forrest er , J r.
llolores foster
Harold Fountain
Leslie B. fox
Arthur Frank
Will iam fre ed (Hr s .)
Joseph M. Fre e land
Ral ph W. French
Si emund fry
Tinsl&y C. fry
J ames K. Gaines
William L. Galbrai th
Elmer C. Garrett
Olem R. Garrett
Robert B. Gaylord , J r.
A . C. GeorP,e
Mrs. Mary Gibbons
R. C. Gibson
Ethel H. Gifford
Robert A. Gilmore
J anet s . Glads tone
frank E. Gladwin
Mary R. Goddard
Ben Go ldberg
George O. Goodrum
Char les W. Goodwin
Edward E. Gordon
Adolph Gottsch alk
Allen J. Goul d
Dou glas S. Gra ha m
George II. Graham
Jean P. Grannel l
Cliffor d W. Grannis
Herman ~. Graves
Don Gray
France s A. Gray
r. o. Cr.:ly
Edwin Grebbel l
Uonnell Greely
Will iam L. Greenwood
Glenn A. Griffea th
William Griffith
Gilbert v. Griggs
Dona ld B. Gri s ez
Ida A. Griswo ld
Arthur Haley
James L. Halley
Albert E. Hallett , Sr .
Arthur H. Halloren
G. D. Halloway
warren C. Hamilto n
Dorothy Hansen
Edwin C. Hansen
Oluf f Hanse n
Otto r. Hansen
Waldemar G. Hansen
Carl A. Hanson
Marion G. Hanson
John Henry Harder
Wm. P. Harkey
Charles J. Harkins
Ora Hannon
Earl A. Harnish
Fra nk W, Harper
Margue rite Harrison
Hrs . Thomas Harrison

William ~. Hastie
Bert Hasting s
~ernon Hastinp: s
Donald Hartsoc k
Charles L. ll~yncs
Don Hea l
'1lalter Heck
Lloyd P. Helmick
Everett II . Hendri ck
Walter [, . Hennefo rth
Frank G. Herby
Elida M. Hertare r
Jul i us C. Hertel
Earl f. fl i ck"Y
E. ~ild red llipp,inm
Frank /\. Iii 11
John H. Hi ll
Pauline Hi ll
William F. Hill
Frank Hinma n
R. Hi rte nste i ner
Carl ll. Hoa~e
El me r C. HodRes
tlmer Hoien
Gle nn C. Holmes
Ha rry l~ . Holmes
Henry L. Ho pk i ns
E. 9rooks Hour.ht on
J . r.arl.rnd Howard
Mro.J . H'. Howa rd
I:rnes t C. llueter
Edwi n R. Hu lb i rt
Irma L. Hunt
Edwin llunter
He nry E. Hunter
William E. Ill manen
Sa!'luel Irvine
Andrew R. Jacks
Marjori e B. Jackson
Peter L. J ackson
Alexand e r J . J acobson
Laddy W. Jane s
William R. Jenkin
Er linp, Johanse n
Walter ~ . Johanse n
Clara Johns
Frank Johnson
Mrs. Hazel Johnson
Hoadley Johnson , Sr.
J. E. Johnson
Mary L. Johnson
Ralph D, Johnson
William H. Jones
Zul ma L. Judice
John Kaiser
Hrs. Jennie Kaplan
Alexand e r Kara sick
Harry E. Keck, Sr.
John D. Keen
George W. Kef fer
John R. Kelly
Rev . J , R. Ke nnedy
Geraldi ne Kess ler
Harry King
Royle £. Ki ng
Hattie Kirkman

~EM OR IALS

Robert R. Kissell
Freel W. Kolb
Hrs. John Krur,
Edwin Kuhlman
Albert P. Kwock
Anton Laa pa s
Hr s .Viola Lafitte
!'ierre La Ga ce
Hrs. Gr ace E. Lane
Andre w Larson

Harry R. La Rue
William C. Lash
Mary !l. Lassner
Al be rt !,audon
Hr s • Mildr ed Le an
Sam Ledde l
Elv in ~ D. Lee
Charles I!. Le RP.C
Mrs. Rae Le ibel
Frank Leidt
William F. Le is er
Willis E. Le Quatte
Lu lu Letson
Philip Levin
Arthur F. Lewis
Harry A. Lewis
James H. Leyda
9arney H. Lieuran ce
Edwi n T. Lind ley, Sr.
Perry R. Litton
E. Gran t Lohmann
John M. Lohoar
Adolf Lombard i
J a mes H. Longnak er
Helen H. [,oren
Herbert H. Lorentz en
James Low
Cha rles E. Loyal
John c. Luchs
Carl O. Lue
Hen r y W. Luncefo rd
Wm. H. Lyles
Jules H. !,ytgens
Merrill W. Hac Af ee
Hrs . Elizabe th Macdona ld
William McCall
Herbert D. McCarth y
Jean M. HcConnaha
Ernest E. McCreary
Charle s G. McCubbi n
Donald McDona ld
John w. Mc Elheney
Wm. A. Mcfarla ne
Eide Mcfa rren
Malcolm C. McGilvr ay
Allen K. McGrath
T. J . McGrath
Ella H. McKee
Hrs. Harry McKnight
Joseph S. HcLees
Theo. z. HcHurra y
Florenc e HacHull en
frank Hc Nitt
Henry Hadsen
Walte r H. l'agraw
Eugena A. Mahoney

Fred A. Ha inzer
Clayton f. Haillin g
Philip James Hangel
Jeanett e Marks
George E. Marsha ll
Hrs . Byron Hartin
Carmel Hartin
Charles E. Matheso n
Claude Mathis
William Mattiso n
Francis C. Maurer
Thomas Michae l May
Hrs. Conni e Ha ycock
nieresa A. Ha yse
Hrs. Al ma Hed ina
Jean Mendribi l
Ernest C. Hens ch
Mrs. E. c. Merril l
Ira W. Merrill
Eluna Lu Meyers
Ne ttie K. lleye rs on
Robert A.. Mi hal
J ohn Wesle y Mila m
Marko Milinov ich
Harold K. Hil ler
Horace R. Hiller
Ralph M. Miller
George J . Hil l er
Worth C. Miller
William A. Minniea r
Leon H. Mi nton
George Tripp Iii tche 11
Hrs. Dina Hoen ·
Hilton P. Hoeser , Jr.
Charles E. Mah le
H. Arthur Monk
£. J . Moody
Ira D. Hoon
C. Al len Moore
John R. Moore
Roy E. More land
Harvin B. Mor e.a n
Henry f . Hori t z.
Alfred T,' Morris , Jr.
Clarenc e \/, Morris
Will iam J . Morriso n
Edward J . Mor tense n
Wi lliam J . Mortland
Lawre nce Moss
George A. Muller
Fred T. Munch
Charles H. Murphy
Nellie C. Mu rray
Harold D. Hye rs
Thomas J . Hye r s
True Edward Myers
Paul Nat han
Carl Edwi n Ne ls on
H. William Nelson
Rea Cambrid ge Newman
R. Hark Nicholso n
Ava Nie l5 en
Jame s P. Nicl5en
Hrs. Selma Nilsson
W. Raymond Ninnis
Arthur H. Nolder

(Continu ed)

Herndon J. Norris
John E. North
Howard K, Norton
Lorrin A, Not t
Louis S. llunt.iat o
George S. Ny e
Au gust c . J. Oldag
Alvin B. Oliver
Al Olmert
Harr y H. Omar
Leo Gordon Opsahl
Marius Or e ds en
Lloyd E. Oswald
Ne i l Ousley
Hyman Parke r
Wm. N. Parkhur st
Joseph J . Pent
Jesu s S. Perez
Forr est Pe rry
Maude Perry
J ens Peter Peterse n
John Peterse n
Warren H. Pi l ls bury
Bernice M. Pl ank
Harvey J. Plemon s
Sheila Plumrid ge
Lel and S. Poage
\./alter Pollock
Henry L . Pond
Ge orF,e K. Porter
Hr s. ·Edith Potte r
Gcor P,e M. Powell
Charles L. Prat t
Roy F. Price
Thomas H. Pr ice
Charles R. Puckha~er
[,eonard S. Putnam
Que en Louise of Swede n
Elias A. Kaice
Adol ph Ras!'luss en
Ronald Ree<l
Sibba ld Rei d
Harry w. Reis
/\nshelm S, Re~ell
Dome nick Res ei ~ne
Eff i e Reynolds
Sidne y Rhr. i n
Robert II. Hichard s
Oa vid A. Ri cha r d son
Albe r t W. Rich~ond
,John Rieder
Uw i~ht r . Roberts
James E. Robi ns on
Ralnh A. Rou i nson
Alfred G. Rodda
\J . T. Rodp,er
Stan l ev ~ osP. nt hal
Melvin rranc is Roy
llrs . Alt a L. Rushinp,
Henry A. Russell
Me lvin Russell
Walter r . Ruth ~r f orJ
Kenneth M. Rya ls
Dcna l d :! . Rva n
Har old H. Samuels
Hrs . Grace Sanda l

Harry J . Sapper
Paul Scalett a
Lawrenc e A. Sch a c ke r
Mrs . Elmer Schaube l
Geo .W, Scherer , Sr .
Leo F, Schlesin ger
Hrs. Elfrie de A. Schnack e
Jose ph Schneid er
Geo. Schneid er ma n
Emile Schnetz ler
Leo Schnurmacher
Walter J . Schocke r
Geo r ~e Schomer
Le slie A. Schoole y
Carolin e Sch ric ker

c. A. Schwart z

Ben C. Sc ott
Mrs. Je ss i e Scott
Sa rn Sco t~

f rank W. Scroggs
Iva n O. Seiberl ing
Phillie Seri ani
Glenn t . Sei fe r t
Mil t on fl . Sharp
Robert Lee Shaw
Edward L. Sheaffe r
Conrad Shebelu t
rrancis J, Sheehan
Geor~e H. She l don
Louis r. She lt on
Hrs . Lil l ian Sherwoo d
Murvin S hi~ley
Gl enn L. Shumway
Fr e d A. Siesfrie d
Max Sinay
Adria n Ge rar d Sira
Ferdinan d A. Sixtus
Donald R. Skillen
Maud L. Sk illi np,
Er ne st: Skinner

R eu~cn ",. Smira
C. R. Sni t h
David L. Smi th
flara l d f: . Smi t h

Harold [,. Smith
Karen Smith
Vance Smith
Willia .,. Smith
c;eo r ~e

!':mi the rs

fred ~n;·d e r
Mary S. Sobey
Ne l s A. Soderma n
Geo . P. Sorensen
Or ville Southwo rth
C1st1al d S'pe ir
Ca t;,erine So ink

cc : c~~~~ . ~iui re
Sydney S prin r,e r-

Frank St a l l ard
J . Tnomas Stans fi eld
Cleo J, St ee l e
Menhart St ern
Julia M. St evenson
Har l ey M. Ste~art
J. !'. Stewart
Raymond L. Sulliva n

82

83

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

REPORT OF CONTRI BUTION S TO ENDOW MENT FUND
MEMORIALS ( Continued)
Hrs. Edna Sultan
Veronica Swan
Harold Swanton
(dward 0, Sylvester
Joseph B. Sy lvester
Ll oyd I. 14rleton
David H. Taylor
Robert H. Taylor
Win f red L, Tea ford
Udall A. Tenney
Wm. H. Terwillige r
Charles A. Teske
Alber't Thau
Jack Thiess en
Rudolph Thirion
John Willis Thomas
Stuart C, Thompkins
Charles J. Thompson
Pete r C. Thomse n
David H. Thone
Elizabe'th Tittman
D. D. Todorovic
Chas. W. Tolley
George R. Towle
Harold G. Towne
Hargueri'te Travis
Frank Leslie Tremper
Andrew Jacobson
r. c. aos\lorth

Clyde H. White
Leland J. Trobock
Hiram B. White
Hrs. Martha E. True
Kenneth B. White
Benjamin E. Turner
George H. Wihr
J ack Urbam
Lloyd Wilcox
Edna Va lentine
Frederick Wilhelm
John Carl Varady
Ot
to Wilkendorf
George I . Vaughan
Da na Hosmer Willard
Bernice s. Venable
Bernard P. Von Tichner Nat Williams
Hildred Willis
Richard Vosbrink
Alvin B. Wilson
Archiba ld H. Walke r
W
i lliam G. Winter
John Bertie Walker
Jean With row
William S. Walker
Robert John Wolf
Pauline E. Walter
Christian I. Wolfley
Arthur H. Warren
George
Woodruff
Kenneth F. Wa'tts
Clarence E. Woolford
Harry L. Weaver, Sr.
Hrs. Jo Wright
Hrs. Joseph J. Webb
Edward J. Wuest
Frank E. Weeks
Adeline B. Wyatt
Hrs. Chris'tel Wehse
James
J a ckson Yates
George Weinhold
Albert N. York
Ho\lard B. Welton
Clyde H. Yothers
David Wer'theim
Krs. E'thel Young
Henry J . Wessel
Lorraine Zbraskewich
Richard Wessel
J ohn w. Zimmerman
Oscar West
Jeanet Perry
A. C. White
D. B. Littlejohn
Geo,W. Carpenter

•Denotes Honor Roll

...

Lode•

1965
llleinbershlp

417
1 California
Western Star -······· 234
2 Tehama
..................
824
3
5 Benicia .................. 229
8 Tuolumne ............ 286
9 Corinthian ............ 443
10 San Jose ................ 519
12 Yount .................... 550
13 Nevada .................. 172
14 Temple .................. 268
16 Eureka .................. 400
17 La Parfaite Union 105
60
18 Mountain Shade ..
19 San Joaquin ........ 777
20 Washingto n .......... 875
21 Hawaiian .............. 390
22 Occidental ............ 577
23 Madison ................ 322
24 Mariposa .............. 189
25 Georgetow n .......... 73
26 El Dorado ·········-··· 284
27 Trinity .................. 175
30 Golden Gate ........ 494
32 Gold Hill .............. 126
33 Ophir .................... 104
35 San Diego
1010
37 Howard ...... .......... 271
38 Santa Cruz ............ 534
40 Sacrament o .......... 816
41 Martinez ............ :... 422
42 Los Angeles .......... 1091
43 Hiram .................... 125
44 Mount Moriah ...... 301
45 Crescent ................ 221
46 Texas ......................
52
50 Forbestown .......... 142
51 lllinoistow n
79
55 Suisun .................... 312
56 Volcano ................ 123
57 Santa Rosa ............ 650
58 Union .................... 698
59 Gravel Range ...... 103
60 Plumas .................. 179
61 Live Oak .............. 846
64 Natoma .................. 388
65 Amador ................
95
68 Morning Star ........ 659
70 Enterprise ............ 370
76 Bear Mountain ....
79
78 Calaveras .............. 129
79 Humboldt .............. 515
80 Ione --···········-·-···-···· 99
81 Yolo ...................... 109
84 Vesper .................. 244
81 Naval ·····-····-··-··· 1134

1964
Contrlb.

1964 Membership
P1rtklP11tlon

1,676.50•
693.oo•
3,574.75•
858.06•
647.75•
912.00•
1,922.58•
1,509.50•
569.oo•
514.50•
1,435.53•
194.50
245.50·
1,600.00·
4,241.50•
1,655.oo•
1,374.50•
647.50•
633.88•
298.oo•
1,228.oo•
517.oo•
1,590.97•
287.oo•
271.00·
3,231.54•
568.50•
1,102.33•
3,579.05•
1,051.08•
3,417.65•
360.00•
703.50•
453.10•
50.00
609.oo•
162.10•
928.oo•
613.oo•
1,613.70•
2,050.00•
215.85•
a22.oo•
2,014.70•
1,24-0.50•
202.00•
1,620.00·
1,005.50•
130.50
302.00•
1,351.00·
231.00·
350.8o•
294.50
4,658.19•

1965

%

1965
Conb'lb.

P1rt1c:1.,.uon
Members %

44
58
63
68
46
25
44
54
60
35
52
34
100
29
59
52
32
43
52
40
50
46
54
49
49
46
53
31
66
49
34
58
28
30
29
70
48
44
76
33
54
40
75
23
54
43
37
42
23
50
50
39
51
16
59

1,780.00·
266.00
4,090.00•
916.oo•
869.oo•
925.oo•
l,910.60•
1,375.50•
456.oo•
572_55 •
1,483.50·
236.50•
137.oo •
1,709.50·
3,105.08•
1,717.50•
1,317.00·
748.61•
483.20•
256.oo•
1,245.75•
403.65•
1,514.20*
309.26*
242.25*
3,268.45*
550.00•
1,185.92•
3,672.oo•
1,250.81•
3,605.01 •
420.74•
767.oo•
452.50*
75.50
445.oo•
144.00
1,149.oo•
785.87*
2,437.15*
2,100.45*
192.00
734.60•
3,044.75•
1,322.75•
287.62•
1,828.00·
901.00*
209_50•
302. 00•
1,548.50 •
363.00*
444.00*
108.50
4,689.88*

167 40
51 22
622 75
164 72
180 63
100 23
225 43
343 62
79 46
116 43
192 48
46 44
23 38
248 32
368 42
183 47
184 32
150 47
86 46
54 74
129 45
63 36
276 56
61 48
40 38
476 47
200 74
212 40
552 68
209 50
367 34
67 54
99 33
87 39
22 42
77 54
34 43
158 51
82 67
296 48
362 52
32 31
154 86
272 32
224 58
50 53
277 42
143 39
30 38
65 50
254 49
72 73
71 65
23
9
783 69

A"rsl•

Contrlb.
Ptr
Member

4.27
1.14

4.96
4.00
3.04
2.09
3.68
2.50
2.65
2.51
3.71
2.25
2.28
2.20
3.55
4.40
2.28
2.32
2.56
3.51
4.39
2.31
3.07
2.45
2.33
3.24
2.03
2.22
4.50
2.96
3.30
3.37
2.55
2.05
1.45
3.13
1.82
3.68
6.39
3.75
3.01
1.86
4.10
3.60
3.41
3.03
2.77
2.44
2.65
2.34
3.01
3.67
4.07
.44
4.14

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Bi

No.

Lodge

1965
Membership

73
89 Rose's Bar
91
91 North Star ............
93 St. Helena ------·-···- 134
95 Henry Clay --·--···· · 82
98 Hornitos -·------·-······ 105
99 Yosemite ·····-·------- 497
101 Clay ············--·------- 107
103 Oroville ................ 400
650
104 Lexington
106 Arcata --········-·······-· 343
110 Pajaro ······------······ 409
111 Chico ·----··--····-- ---- -- - 615
72
112 Summit ..................
113 Eden . .... ···-···· ······· 442
117 Concord ········-------- 376
120 Fidelity ·-·---------···· 573
122 Alamo ·····-·············· 447
123 Sotoyomc ...... :·- -- 242
124 Table Mountain .. 356
126 La Fayette ............ 216
127 Hermann ---------·-··· 164
128 Visalia ................... 563
129 Nicolaus ................ 140
131 Woodbridge ·········· 196
93
132 Sincerity ................
134 Vacaville ·-----------·· 314
96
135 Valley ......................
511
136 Pacific ·· ······ -·· ···· ·
139 Crockett ·····---------·· 423
96
140 Curtis ····················
141 Grafton .................. 106
143 Franklin -------·------- 146
144 Oriental ................ 281
145 Vitruvius ............... 144
146 Abell ············ ·········· 371
147 Eel River .............. 263
149 Lassen .................... 246
161
150 Molino ..................
156 Woodland .............. 318
47
161 Keystone ······-·······
30
164 Hannony ·---···----···
166 Excelsior ······--·--···· 378
167 Alameda ·············· 325
168 Redwood City ...... 66 7
169 Mission --·--·-----······ 565
173 Elk Grove -----·-····· 145
75
174 Drytown .................
175 Antioch .................. 402
178 Phoenix ................ 756
179 Mendocino ·······-···· 111
180 Petaluma -·· ·····-····· 335
181 Russian River ...... 123
85
182 Arbuckle ·········-·--·
183 Clear Lake ............ 156
29
184 Sierra Valley --······
80
185 Claiborne
81
186 Evening Star ........
187 Keith ···················· 195
188 Oakland ....................... 701
OHO oooooOoo

1964
Contrlb.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

%

1965
Contrlb.

1965
Partlclp1tlon
Members %

100
67
63
64
43
37
56
71
65
31
45
43
63
39
54
44
34
55
53
24
68
57
41
60
48
41
10
27
51
48
21
54
51
59
38
46
43
55
44
4
100
36
29
57
58
54
64
39
28
11
40
67
43
18
29
28
45
50
55

219.oo•
85.00
431.50•
405.00°
112.00
1,095.25•
404.oo•
909.50•
1,959.18°
1,319.75*
844.50*
1,873.2 1*
205.90°
1,448.13•
1,008.00·
2,232.00•
905.00·
782.25•
784.00·
256.46
566.09•
1,863.16•
362.50•
667.50.
297.60•
787.25•
176.50
1,289.50•
1,391.36*
202.50*
158.50
546.50•
1,221. 50°
455.oo•
626.50
717.oo•
414.25
490.5o•
659.25•
25.00
37.00
1,827.50°
955.50•
2,303.50•
1,550.50•
604.oo•
192.00·
688.17
1,935.0l •
114.50
970.5o•
418.oo•
191.50°
88.00
81.00·
173.50•
290.50•
422.50°
2,956.50*

73 100
22 24
88 66
56 68
21 20
156 31
73 68
283 71
293 45
113 33
179 44
420 68
40 56
186 42
170 45
255 45
140 31
153 63
206 58
45 21
118 72
314 56
70 50
131 67
52 56
130 41
19 20
156 31
201 48
33 34
34 32
84 58
145 52
77 53
120 32
129 49
85 35
89 55
134 42
9
4
12 40
167 44
126 39
360 54
234 41
79 54
35 47
164 41
325 43
20 18
175 52
74 60
33 39
12
8
14 48
18 23
56 69
101 52
379 54

1964 Mambarsh Ip
P1rtlclp1tlon

201.00·
196.00·
397.oo•
366.50•
245.oo•
1,179.oo•
346.50•
971.50*
1.926.99°
1,281.50*
921.50°
1,591.75•
214.50*
1,206.11 •
1,193.50 •
2,048. lO•
926.75•
717.50•
725.50•
343.67
520.09•
2,016.68•
306.20°
612.19•
305_55•
702.60°
69.00
1,246.oo•
1.588.75•
194.77•
219.50•
588.50°
1,195.00*
466.oo•
736.10*
834.50•
482.02•
577.75*
690.40•
10.00
60.00•
1.032.50•
720.50•
2,292_99•
2,116.50•
535.50•
324.00·
783.38
1,502.oo•
69.00
691.50*
385.50•
214.20•
104.50
55.00
186.50•
154.25
406.50•
2,581.60•

A. . . .

Contr1r..

......

...

Par

3.oo
.93
3.22
4.94
l.07
2.20
3.78
2.27
3.01
3.85
2.06
3.05
2.86
3.28
2.68
3.90
2.02
3.23
2.20
1.19
3.45
3.31
2.59
3.41
3.20
2.51
1.84
2.52
3.29
2.11
1.50
3.74
4.35
3.18
1.69
2.73
1.88
3.05
2.07

.53

1.23
4.83
2.94
3.45
2.74
4.17
2.58
1.71
2.58
1.03
2.90
3.40
2.25

.58

2.79
2.17
3.59
2.17

4.22

UC-

1965
Membership

1964
Contrlb.

1964 Membership
P1rtl~1tlon

1965
Contrlb.

85
1965
P1rtlclpatlon
lhmben %

128
256.50*
42
308.75•
49 38
529
1,749.25•
44
2,031.00•
266 50
378
1,239.25•
62
1,570.16•
261 69
86
252.00•
57
305.46*
74 86
412
1,694.25•
57
1,627.25•
229 56
139
489.oo•
69
784.00•
173 100
101
226.00•
41
196.75
30 30
662
2,319.60•
42
2,690.09°
320 48
241
367.00
24
367.00
40 17
154
1,428.51 •
74
1,054.70*
79 51
153
............
Silveyville
319.oo•
45
401.50*
201 Pentalpha ............ 418
77 50
1,980.oo •
52
2,580.oo•
199 48
Confidence ............ 128
368.50•
87
434.50•
106 83
1,716.78*
Salinas ---------······· 601
56
1,730.06•
345 57
145
....................
Olivet
420.02•
69
454.50•
J06
91 63
Stanislaus ............ 678
1,188.24
31
1,617.34•
208 Anaheim
239 35
................
518
1,159.07•
29
1,700.69•
207 Rio Vista .............. 176
188 36
489.oo•
55
821.50•
J08
142 81
King David's ........ 401
1,275_13•
56
1,208.22*
225 56
2,020.00•
41
210 Friendship ............ 737
2,188.00•
267 36
............
Benito
San
178
549.oo•
55
211
546.oo•
108 61
649.25°
51
212 So. San Francisco 204
737.50•
111 54
Buenaventura
San
438
1,436.79*
48
2H
1,465.34°
200 46
............
Grove
Oak
510
1,508.48•
211
37
1,613.50•
203 40
848.50•
218 Doric ....................... 372
28
1,134.oo•
130 35
..............
Monterey
298
1,106.00•
217
64
1,155.50°
207 69
....................
Mosaic
283
621.00•
118
45
880.5o•
139 49
2111 Speranza ltaliana 211
871.oo•
50
1,014.oo•
122 58
Downey
976
DO
5,120.82•
··-·-------·····
55
5,048.oo•
483 49
148
221 Inyo -·-············ .. ·····
472.00·
59
447.50°
72 49
m Roseville .............. 497 1,345.77• 41 2,262.33•
289
58
Bakersfield
749
D4
2,549.oo•
46
2,590.30•
332 44
m Brooklyn -----····· 431
1,192.50•
33
970.00·
137 32
228 San Mateo ............ 611
2,192.00•
50
2,495.50•
376 62
228 Athens ...................... 198
659.25•
46
544.oo•
67 34
m Solano .................... 522 1,096.84• 34 1,063.oo• 155
30
280 North Butte -····--- 237
515.50•
65
633.oo•
171 72
Dl Cove lo --···--··········· 72
7.00
6
64.00
14 19
m Janesville .............. 148
336.75•
47
337.oo•
81 55
Calistoga
121
248.00·
41
242.00•
63 52
D4 Hope ...................... 109
336.oo•
76
346.00·
87 80
Surprise Valley.... 108
20.00
5
5
D8 Hills Ferry .......... 164
375.50•
44
514.50•
81 49
21'1 Guadalupe ............ 245
827.38•
50
850.29•
128 52
MO Colusa .................... 168
204.00
21
219.00
46 27
Ml Santa Ana ............ 601
1,383.16•
31
1,535.70°
188 31
20 Magnolia .............. 514
2,036.00·
70
2,725.50*
475 92
JG Eucalyptus ............ 561
1,679.78•
50
1,711.50•
260 46
Alcatraz ................ 491
1,052.70•
31
1,345.00·
190 39
Ml Laurel .................... 254
944.00·
55
810.00•
120 47
248 Pomona
432
904.84*
47
1,264.92•
244 56
Ill Fresno •...:::::::::::::::: 701
1,898.50•
39
1,687.73•
253 36
Ml Alturas ········---------· 191
255.50
100
309.50
144 75
Adin
92
101.00
Landmfil.i ·······..···· .. 117
31 34
261.oo•
87
244.50•
98 84
Reading ....:::::::::::: 315
1,583.10•
75
1,500.00·
219 70
Welcome .............. 200
393.75
32
340.86
75 38
888.00 ·
32
Lodi -······················ 404
848.75•
128 32
PenrhYn ................ 139
228.50
34
446.29•
91 65
Evergreen ............ 713
2,456.52•
40
2,902.44•
301 42

Light ....
UIC> No~ern
Marin ....................
191 Santa
Barbara ......
192
····:··· ........
193 Femdal~
194 Mountam View ....
Bucke;ye ················
195 San
Suneon ..........
198
Wilmington ··········
198 Hartley
119 Truckee -·---------·----................

---

.

m

*

.=••

=

A..rora

Contrlb.
Per
M1mber

2.41
3.85
4.15
3.55
3.95
5.64
1.95
4.06
1.52
6.85
2.62
6.17
3.39
2.88
3.13
2.39
3.28
4.67
3.01
2.97
3.07
3.62
3.35
3.16
3.05
3.88
3.11
4.81
5.17
3.02
4.55
3.46
2.25
4.08
2.75
2.04
2.67
.89
2.28
2.00
3.17
.19
3.14
3.47
1.30
2.56
5.30
3.05
2.74
3.19
2.93
2.41
1.62
1.10
2.09
4.76
1.70
2.10
3.21
4.07

PROCEEDING S OP THE

86

No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lode•

1965
Membership

K ing Solomon's
Seaport ···········--· 572
89
261 Tuscan ....................
262 L ompoc .................. 297
264 Hesperian .............. 430
265 Orland .................... 167
84
267 Galt --·····················268 Durant .................. 371
269 Olive Branch ........ 305
41
271 Snow Mountain....
272 P asadena ·······------- 497
273 Anchor .................... 608
274 Arroyo ·----············· 209
275 Oakdale ·······--------- 213
277 Selma ···········-········ 219
278 So. California ...... 397
279 Hanford ------····------ 230
280 Madera OH·········•••••• 282
281 Mount Shasta ...... 166
69
282 Callayomi
283 South West .......... 562
79
285 San Miguel ..........
286 P aso Robles .......... 287
287 Winneduma h ........ 237
66
288 Maxwell ·········--·---·
289 Elsinore ................. 135
290 East Gate .............. 601
291 Santa Paula .......... 418
292 Los Gatos .............. 427
293 Orange Grove ...... 378
294 Traver ·················- 139
295 Mount J ackson .... 117
296 Silver Gate .......... 1210
297 Dunsmuir .............. 246
299 Liberty ····-······-·---·· 402
300 Redlands ······----···- 494
301 Ontario ·················· 527
302 Santa Lucia .......... 164
303 Porterville ··----··---- 502
304 Reedley ---···-········· 149
305 Azusa ....................... 332
306 Ashlar ······----·····--· 335
307 Santa Monica ...... 357
308 Monrovia ······-------· 347
309 D elano ........... ............ 252
310 S isson -··········----····· 109
312 L os Banos ······-----· 168
313 Tehachapi . ............ 183
314 Temescal ·-·······---· 297
315 Norwalk ·······---······ 425
316 Sanger ................... 321
317 F all brook -····-···---·· 175
318 Emmanuel ····-------- 86
319 Hollenbeck ······---· 677
446
320 South Gate
321 Alis al ...................... 211
322 Alhambra .............. 624
323 Whittier ·············--· 773
324 Corona ·----······----·· 426
260

1964
Contrlb.

1964 M•mbershlp
Participation

1,394.oo•
102.00
870.25 *
1,826.51 •
386.50*
294.50*
1,103.50*
628.oo•
48.00
357.04
2,998.18*
530.11 *
504.00*
606.50*
3,064.33*
274.00
630.50*
251.00
96.00
1,155.00*
86.25
763.oo•
520.77*
141.95·
328.oo •
2,626.72*
1,255.39*
970.00 *
1,342. 99 *
298.03*
374.16•
3,208.47•
578.oo•
1,209.00*
2,502.00•
1,101.00·
345.50*
735.50
267.00
838.54*
874.66*
2,041.25*
653.84
1,101.00*
263.50*
100.00
639.52*
602.67 *
1,464.75°
668.00*
431.54*
186.00*
2,516.91 *
1,931.16*
500.50*
2,625.oo•
1,756.55*
1,573.73*

%

44
20
52
53
45
52
37
30
29
3
67
51
50
48
52
23
40
40
36
40
31
63
65
54
39
48
51
54
59
30
63
41
41
51
56
27
35
25
26
32
45
46
24
65
44
25
90
35
63
47
33
63
35
46
84
63
28
55

1965
Contrib.

1965
Participation
Members %

1,006.50
114.00
934_25•
2,150.54*
516.00*
348.62•
656.45
612.00•
55.00
3,842.88.
2,667.33*
492.25*
490.50*
502.50*
2,982.70*
350.00
728.50*
222.00
26.00
1,441.50*

206
11
168
241
98
51
86
104
10
491
345
84
115
78
199
49
127
57
5
220

36
12
57
56
59
61
23
34
24
99
57

976.17*
668.77*
134.oo•
316.50°
2,796.07*
1,537.48*
882.00*
1,370.21 *
393.78*
388.00*
2,720.69*
815.50*
1,393.50*
2,526.75•
1,519.50°
408.75*
1,787.00*
475.oo•
975.79*
1,068.90*
2,753.25*
743.74*
1,411.41 •
274.00*
439.50*
539.50·
1,223.00*
1,327.78*
675.50*
529.15*
161.00
3,219.51 *
1,869.99*
680.00*
2,711.16*
1,940.82*
1,742.31*

207
186
33
54
295
235
203
221
53
79
412
141
240
291
178
70
254
65
168
158
222
120
171
42
145
141
180
252
164
121
50
263
204
162
445
210
233

72
78
50
40
49
56
48
58
38
68
34
57
60
59
34
43
51
44
51
47
62
35
68
39
86
77
61
59
51
69
58
39
46
77
71
27
55

40

54
36
50
21
45
34
7
39

87

A.._
Contr11i.

......,
Ptr

l.76
1.28
3.15
5.oo
3.09
4.15
1.77
2.01
1.34
7.73
4.39
2.38
2.30
2.29
7.51
1.52
2.58
1.34

.38

2.58

"i4ii
2.83
2.03
2.34
4.65
3.88

2.0'1

3.62
2.83
3.32
2.25
3.32

3.47
5.11
2.88
2.49
3.58
3.19
2.IN
3.19
7.71
2.14
5.60
2.51
2.62
2.91
4.11

3.12

2.11
3.0I

1.8'1
4.78
4.lt
3.22

4.3'
2.11

4.Gt

...

1965
Membership

l.odp

................ 402
325 Consuelo..................
325
326 Needles
Beach ..........

618
32'1 Long
328 Redondo ................ 781
329 Vallee De France.. 123
186
330 Kilauea ..................
331 Pacific Grove ...... 312
332 San Pedro ............ 559
333 Alta ........................ 148
334 Covina .................. 555
335 West Gate ............ 1177
336 Fruitvale .............. 743
337 Carquinez ............ 178
338 San Jacinto .......... 112
339 Fullerton ·······------- 405
437
341 Oxnard
343 san Fernand"~ ..:::::: 745
3" Starr King ............ 512
346 Brentwood ............ 169
346 Palo Alto .............. 779
U7 McKinley .............. 476
348 San Bernardino.... 1005
M9 Sequoia .................. 911
351 Palestine .............. 437
352 Sunset .................... 291
353 Pinole .................... 186
354 Presidio ................ 385
355 Hollywood ..... ....... 1182
356 Mill Valley ............ 441
317 Buena Park .......... 431
3111 Golden State ........ 538
87
259 Loyalton ......... .......
·
San Fr anciscoVictory .............. 423
181 Fort Bragg ............ 151
182 ~h3kity ·················· 197
183
eley ................ 564
185 ~ ts ···················· 159
188 So
Palmas .......... 1082
U .. Pasadena ........ 545
188 Ocruty ............... ..... 565
189 ~!111 Park .......... 478
1ty-Seal R ock.. 523
171 le Progres
691
m G ded l'Oceanie ······ 557
w8:st e~s .Xni~ie~ 480
174
191
171 ~~~o~~i"·-···· .. ······ 399
I'll Francis Drake···:::: 444
m ~ia .................. 246

•

..,

W.fu

m

m

178
339
171 ~ah·--···· ··········· 234

Hunti~to~·iie·~·~'h
r.I ~~~ePil
l-

366

......... 535
k .... 541

···
I ElOrOsiCeiifi;0····-······
...............

144
483

1964
Contrlb.

1964 Membership
P1rtitipotlon

%

1965
Contrlb.

1965
Participation
Members %

A111n119
Contrib.
Per
hnbel'

1,65 7.87 *
1,314.oo•
2,506.29*
2,690.24*
425.oo•
515.00 *
1,037.27*
1,210.03*
481.00*
1,970.02*
3,786.18*
2,047.oo•
560.50*
239.00*
1,310.84*
1,006.63*
2,055. 19*
1,190.oo•
431.91.
2,547.19•
1,321.71 *
2,574. 00*
2, 786.50*
1,418.49°
1,251.69*
364.oo•
1,073.oo•
5,344.93 *
1,450.00•
1,441.96*
2,006.05 •
173.20

49
50
44
41
74
55
51
35
69
51
44
52
44
48
39
30
51
46
59
56
41
33
39
49
58
42
27
54
45
42
46
33

1,540.51 •
18.38
3,390.12*
2,731.27•
474.00•
647.50*
861.93*
1,546.94*
466.00*
2,298.28•
4,175.79*
2,250.00·
503.00*
258.46*
1,302.56*
1,057.50•
2,211.31 *
1,549.oo •
516.50*
2,419.50•
1,561.50°
2,745.24*
2,764.00·
1,333.82*
1,171.84*
432.14*
936.50 *
6,095.59•
1,357.25•
1, 700.35*
2,187.80•

205 51
1
358 58
310 40
97 79
145 78
153 49
165 30
119 80
324 58
575 49
399 54
87 49
49 44
142 35
122 28
404 54
294 57
93 55
442 57
217 46
374 37
365 40
210 48
177 61
98 53
138 36
645 55
173 39
239 55
265 49

3.83
.06
5.49
3.50
3.85
3.48
2.76
2.77
3.15
4.14
3.55
3.03
2.71
2.31
3.22
2.42
2.97
3.03
3.06
3.11
3.28
2.73
3.03
3.05
4.03
2.32
2.43
5.16
3.08
3.95
4.07

950.50*
471.00·
415.oo•
931.95
128.00
2,535.53*
2,139.26*
2,531.60*
1,872.40*
1,832.47*

50
100
37
21
13
39
45

183

44
37

1,044.50*
288.17
531.00*
878.50
233.50
2,598.54*
1.895.90*
2,360.60*
1,511.14*
1,454.00·

75
133
27
688
238
323
180
209

43
40
38
24
17
64
44
57
38
40

2.47
1.91
2.70
1.56
1.47
2.40
3.48
4.18
3.16
2.78

1,789.03*
2,241.25 *
2,284.oo•
604.50*
1,287.50 *
1,398.00*
750.41 •
2,030.58*
942.so•
1,007.19 *
1, 760.53•
1,617.25*
498.50*
1,726.50•

45
53
46
58
56
47
52
49
62
46
60
41
76
40

2,425.50*
2,337.60*
2,775.40*
605.58•
1,233.50*
1,839.00·
909.77 •
2,809.64*
1,006.50 *
1,163.38*
1,741.85*
1,694.32*
612.00•
1,615.57 *

352 51
298 54
221 46
100 52
223 56
234 53
139 57
188 55
145 62
181 49
292 55
205 38
116 81
187 39

3.51
4.20
5.78
3. 17
3.09
4.14
3.70
8.29
4.30
3. 18
3.26
3.13
4.25
3.34

66

60

88

No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lode•

1965
••.,benhlp

385 Dinuba .................. 287
387 Coalinga ................ 360
646
388 Parnassus
389 Palos Verdes ...... 690
390 Imperial ................ 129
391 East Belt .............. 117
650
392 West Lake
393 Balder .................... 466
394 University ............ 467
395 Turlock ................ 417
396 Apollo .................... 428
397 Rising Light ........ 91 9
399 Fraternity ............ 410
400 Burlingame .......... 633
401 Bay View ............ 638
402 Brawley ................ 244
403 Yerba Buena ........ 843
404 Glendora .............. 273
405 Moneta .................. 507
406 Burbank ................ 876
407 La Mesa ................ 640
408 Sierra Madre ...... 199
409 Honolulu .............. 414
410 Charter Rock ...... 241
411 Perris .................... 156
412 Calexico ................ 134
414 Arlington .............. 245
415 Silver Trowel .... 419
416 Lindsay ................ 201
417 Clovis .................... 578
418 Elysian .................. 380
419 Upland ···-········--··· 277
420 Kerman ................ 148
421 Inglewood ............ 736
422 Eagle Rock .......... 479
423 York ···············-·--·· 323
424 Exeter ................. ... 233
425 Holtville .............. 152
426 Midway ................ 433
257
427 Chino Valley
428 Sa n Dimas ............ 175
429 P ittsburg .............. 356
430 McCloud ................ 101
431 Alpha .................... 495
433 Hammonton ........ 106
434 Maricopa .............. 185
435 Fairmount ............ 384
436 Claremont ............ 212
437 Lancaster .............. 587
439 Tyrian .................... 236
440 Standard .............. 328
441 Coronado .............. 383
442 Blackmer .............. 1124
443 Schofield .............. 314
444 Carpinteria .......... 158
445 Wilshire ................ 446
446 La Puent e ............ 270
447 Torrance ................ 612
448 Mt. Diablo ............ 481

1964
Contrlb.

1964 Membership
P1rtlclp1tlon

742.00·
1,134.39*
1,534.00*
1,655.69*
494.00*
394.45*
1,704.18*
1,291.00*
2,165.53*
1,281.59*
1,175.60*
2,348.85*
1,365.95*
2,501.00*
1,388.20*
939.71 *
2,818.56*
458.39
1,747.85*
1,938.16*
1, 776.25*
610.71 *
1,239.oo•
795.50*
198.26
535.oo•
1,061.68*
1,019.69*
409.50*
2,197.71 *
1,207.80*
571.47*
459.63*
2,622.63*
2,719.84*
687.90*
566.50*
496.30*
933.86 *
551.52*
614.63*
539.00
406.50*
1,158.35*
267.67*
595.89*
1,174.51 *
944.17*
2,672.40*
33.98
799.50*
1,205.57*
3,439.16*
633.00*
564.oo•
2,697.12*
474.12
1,840.23*
2,150.50*

%

50
42
38
31
66
63
25
38
36
58
44
62
44
43
35
63
32
32
44
46
45
47
44
36
34
84
50
27
32
56
44
40
58
40
55
31
35
56
43
38
54
32
75
32
54
51

47
58
65
2
86
39
46
38

71

58
26
38
58

89

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1965
Contrlb.

1965
Pertlclpotlon

..... """ %

62
48
37
38
67
72
66
53
38
55
47
42
45
42
34
61
29
27
48
52
47
101 51
171 41
119 49
74 47

~'::.

......""

579.00°
1,327.12*
1,427.50*
2,091.37°
529.00*
522.75*
3,201.09*
1,646.50°
1,725.34°
1,262.11 •
1,334.65°
2,867.11°
1,381.25°
2,129.50*
1,396.00*
986.49°
2,748.81 *
603.78*
1,765.61 *
2,574.34*
2,1 45.59*
692.42*
1,258.25*
927.50*
414.59°

178
172
242
265
86
84
431
248
178
229
200
386
186
267
215
148
246
74
244
453
303

1,085. 15*
1,718.24•
350.00
2,190.24*
1,586.71 "
567.73*
409.57*
2,616.35*
2,282.00*
727.32*
718.50*
616.79*
1,062.10*
728.69*
687.52*
559.15
359.50*
1,312.50*
243.00·
686.47°
1,381.49•
881.83*
2,618.95°

142
186
68
312
182
119
84
318
319
96
80
87
190
108
97
102
67
180
50
103
162
117
396

58
44
34
54
48
43
57
43
67
30
34
57
44
42
55
29
66
36

·4:43

56
42
55
67

3.71

822.50°
1,465.76*
3,111.22*
701.25*
531.00°
2,196.67*
887.50*
2,117.75*
1,936.oo•

289
180
464
119
104
224
94
254
198

88
47
41
38
66
50
35
42
41

2.51

47

2.02
3.69
2.21
3.03
4.10
4.47
4.92
3.53
3.69
3.03
3.12
3.12
3.37

3.36

2.19
4.04
3.26
2.21
3.52

2.94
3.35
3.48
3.04

3.85

2.66

4.10

1.74
3.78
4.18

2.05
2.7'1
3.55

4.78
2.2$
3.08
4.08
2.45
2.84
3.93
1.57
3.58
2.811
2.28

3.80
4.18
4.48

3.81
2.7'1
2.21

3.38

4.91
3.21
3.41
4.0I

11...rag1

...

Lode•

1965
lhmbenhlp

382
449 Park ......................
Van Nuys .............. 1182
450 Montebello
............ 703
451
549
452 San Pasqual
Crocker ............... ... 566
454 Golden
West ........ 504
455
457 Ramona ................ 533
.... 562
458 Henry S. Orme
............ 147
459 Riverbank
Oso ............ 338
460 Mount
481 Argona ut .............. 340
573
482 Paul Revere ........ 155
463 Morgan Hill ........
484 Alta Vista ............ 229
485 Center .................... 524
486 Libertas ................ 714
487 Culver City .......... 442
488 Rockridge ......... ..... 394
489 Yorba Linda ........ 179
470 Lincoln .................. 344
471 Delta ...................... 495
472 Maui ...................... 190
473 Blythe .................... 175
475 America ................ 398
476 Coachella .............. 276
47'1 Temblor ......... ...... 131
478 Thousand Oaks .... 468
479 Golden Rule ........ 709
282
480 Fellowship
481 Mt. Davidson ...... 354
482 C. F. Smith .......... 314
4113 Bell ........................ 803
4114 Albert Pike ........ .". 226
4115 Chowchilla .......... 167
4116 Caledonia ···----------· 561
4117 Vallejo .................. 384
4118 Patterson .............. 178
4118 East Bay .............. 286
490 Corcoran .............. 140
481 Woodstock ............ 414
482 Garvanza .............. 302
493 Atascadero ............ 152
484 Acorn .................... 631
495 Lebanon ................ 405
487 Fremont ................ 513
488 Stockton ................ 193
Capital City .......... 637
IOO Roosevelt .............. 198
IOI Westwood ............ 246
I02 Harbor ····-·····-·--··· 564
I03 Point ...................... 345
I04 Seaside .... ............ .. 535
IOS ~ilver Cord .......... 604
S08 E ount Olive ........ 904
I07 J 1 Segundo .......... 485
I08 oppa .................... 100
ll09
Franklin .... 292
110 ~enj.
upertino .............. 252

•

1964
Contrlb.

1964 M1mbershlp
l'artlclpetlon

%

841.00*
6,027.96°
2,514.88*
2,639.26*
1,671.00*
3,317.93"
1,785.55*
1,706.65°
110.50
394.68
699.37"
2,289.oo•
145.50
1,095.50*
1,155.26*
1,505.53*
2,471.11"
839.25*
570.80*
1,319.50*
1,286.50*
439.00*
255.50
1,930.72*
1,102.29•
515.02•
1,255.29*
2,380.36*
855.50°
1,503.50°
1,352,02*
3,361.28*
658.86*
362.50*
1,642.54*
989.00*
406.50°
630.00•

38
63
46
58
49
51
60
43
16
20
42
56
26
49
40
29
50
35
50
62
34
55
23
56
62
47
38
55
55
57
55
50
41
43
60
51
44
21

908.95*
1,539.65•
351.oo•
1,156.15
694.50
1,618.23*
522.00*
1,729.50°
437.50*
599.58*
1,863.75*
1,065.75*
2,338.32*
2,115.51 *
3,280.68*
1,567.73*
547.oo•
911.06°
327.00

36
54
40
32
41
53
44
51
36
56
38
46
50
50
39
56
96
31
18

1965
Contrib.

1965
Partlclpetlon
M1mber1 %

Contrlb.
Per
Member

921.50°
5,754.02*
2,704.08*
2,710.62*
1,299.50*
2,415.10*
1,901.13*
2,127.46*
223.00
535.50
696.16*
1,960.00*
367.oo•
1,141.26*
1,166.50°
1,486.48*
2,534.33*
856.oo•
550.81 *
2, 162.00°
1,787.35*
477.oo•
370.50*
1,944.66*
1,394.86"
564.37*
1,504.48*
2,311.00·
905.50*
1,690.40*
1,343.47°
3,429.06*
781.49•
373.50*
1,711.85*
1,004.00*
360.00*
600.00•
157.00
980.03*
1,081.16*
323.95°
1,298.50*
853.50*
1,573.00°
279.00
1,762.00°
311.00
606.50°
1,919.58*
1,326.25*
2,140.63*
2,072.50"
3,720.90*
1,649.31 *
172.00
714.36°
581.00*

177 46
£i33 58
319 45
324 59
215 38
203 40
304 57
295 52
45 31
88 26
138 41
256 45
84 54
100 44
256 49
242 34
269 61
152 39
100 56
315 92
241 49
109 57
51 29
216 54
207 75
63 48
211 45
394 56
160 57
230 65
170 54
410 51
117 52
66 40
327 58
217 57
60 34
89 31
70 50
168 41
112 37
55 36
213 34
196 48
280 55
48 25
322 51
57 29
137 56
223 40
182 53
292 55
315 52
468 52
267 55
60 60
61 21
87 35

2.41
4.87
3.85
4.94
2.30
4.79
3.57
3.79
1.52
1.58
2.05
3.42
2.37
4.98
2.23
2.08
5.73
2.1 7
3.08
6.28
3.61
2.51
2.12
4.89
5.05
4.31
3.21
3.26
3.21
4.78
4.28
4.27
3.46
2.24
3.05
2.61
2.02
2.10
1.12
2.37
3.58
2.13
2.06
2.11
3.07
1.45
2 .7'7

1.57
2.47
3.40
3.84
4.00
. 3.50
4.12
3.40
1.72
2.45
- 2.31

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1965

A. . .
Contrl..

P1rticlpatlon

1965

1'1rtlclpatfon

IA>ntrtb.

Members %

Pw

%

1964 Membership
No.

Lodi•

1965
Membership

494
Sunnyvale
Palms ········-··········· 479
Cahuenga .............. 541
Argonne ................ 317
Vermont Square.. 420
Taft ·-····················· 294
186
Mount Vernon
La Jolla ·········--··-·· 346
Euclid .................... 366
Ionic ...................... 1248
P iedmont .............. 232
Sunrise ····-······--·-· 269
671
Bellllower
Catalina Island .... 136
Geo. Washington.. 393
Bay City ................ 412
Covenant .............. 240
Beverly Hills ........ 543
Loyalty .................. 721
Sun Garden .......... 534
Alexandria .......... 182
Smyrna ................ 216
Azure .................... 410
Forest Hill ............ 195
Alexander
Hamilton .......... 287
537 Utopia .................... 581
538 Ascot ...................... 329
539 Belvedere .............. 190
540 Queen Beach ........ 183
541 H . M. Stephe ns .... 294
542 No. Hollywood .... 1027
543 Signal .................... 540
544 GI en dale .............. 793
545 Veritas-Jona than .. 323
546 San Gabriel ···-····· 602
547 Arcadia .................. 625
548 Triangle ................ 322
549 J ustice .................. 374
263
55 1 Lakeshore
552 Semper Virens .... 342
554 Educator .............. 385
555 White Pine .......... 105
556 Fairfax .................. 494
557 Hermosa ................ 418
558 Point Firmin ........ 332
342
559 Craftsman
560 Plymouth .............. 385
561 East San Diego .. 905
310
562 Pyramid
563 South Park .......... 385
564 Foothill ·····--··········· 1005
565 West Adams ........ 325
566 J . A. Garfield ·····- 229
431
567 Searchlight
568 P ark Boulevard __ 417
569 Chateau Thierry.. 351
570 Military Service ·- 303

511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535

1964
Contrib.

704.50
1,544.32*
3,110.40*
562.00
1,212.03*
1,141.93*
420.00•
423.25
1,012.07*
2,724.75*
850.50*
892.29*
2,130.45*
330.67*
1,127.50*
1,255.17*
1,023.12•
1,937.42*
3,581.oo•
1,546.79*
462.00·
501.90•
1,829.53•
232.00

27
70
85
24
35
72
41
21
35
47
43
45
30
57
52
100
53
48
49
40
43
30
67
29

606.00
1,356.49*
3,527.23•
657.oo•
1,607.28·
584.71
375.50*
755.58•
1,271.89*
3,919.92*
1,147.50*
849.35.
2,251.80•
275.oo•
3,113.50*
1,041.00*
602.28*
2,264.97*
3,815.50*
1,648.27*
483.50*
503.25*
1,150.81.
511.36*

126
200
474
81
209
99
77
119
152
589
113
101
173
57
204
155
72
289
466
234
96
77
185
105

26
42
88
26
50
34
41
34
42
47
49
38
26
42
52
38
30
53
65
44
53
36
45
54

1,051.24•
1,534.36•
1,219.19.
437.47•
773.54*
766.50.
4,931.77*
2,091.26*
3,302.44•
1,014.25*
2,599.39*
2,732.42•
1,395.53•
1,004.98*
667.50•
911.00•
786.oo•
204.oo•
1,087.52•
813.71
1,405.75•
1,068.87•
995.68•
2,043.50.
849.18•
1,227.73•
2,174.50·
994.57•
1,375.14•
1,099.17*
1,265.75•
901.00*
719.50·

52
35
36
36
46
25
61
52
87
60
57
53

1,053.30*
2,333.53·
1,635.01 •
752.09*
906.28•
780.50*
4,536.47*
2,247.43*
2,855.35·
990.5o•
2,707.10*
2,915.31 •
1,838.10*
1,225.28*
782.44•
1,125.02*
770.00•
315.oo•
1,209.55*
895.35•
1,208.79•
1,225.61 •
1,565.oo•
2,005.50*
998.56.
1,275.73•
2,273.29•
1,054.04*
1,611.10*
1,124.82*
992.00•
951.oo•
909.oo•

142
255
129
69
109
88
617
310
491
173
333
314
274
190
138
191
134
75
199
85
183
160
195
382
120
156
476
89
114
166
159
175
152

49
44
39
36
60
30
60
57
62
54
55
50
85
51
52
56
35
71
40
20
55
47
51
42
39
41
47
27
50
39
38
50
50

73

44
48
53
40

71
44
23

62
44
37

49
36

41
46

25
47
33

47
43

37

......
1.23
2.83
6.52
2.07
3.83
1.99
2.01
2.18
3.48
3.14

4.95
3.16
3.36

2.02
7.92
2.53
2.51
4.17
5.29

3.09

2.66
2.33
2.81

2.62
3.67

4.02
4.97

3.96
4.95

2.65
4.42
4.18
3.80
3.07

4.50
4.66
5.71
3.28
2.98
3.29

2.00
3.00
2.45

2.14

3.64
3.58
4.08
2.22
3.22
3.31

2.28
3.24
7.M
2.81
2.38
2.'11
3.00

...

Lodp

1965
llltmbership

F . K. Shattuck ---· 208
James Madison ··-· 335
Hillcrest ................ 71
S. W. Hackett ··-··· 575
Fort Crook ............ 221
El Cajon Valley.... 596
Sunnyside ............ 385
Progressive .......... 487
Warren G. Harding 666
580 Santa Maria ·····-·- 126
581 Security -·-···-··-···-·- 401
582 Rialto ····-··············· 335
583 Wasco -··················· 335
584 Harding -·-············· 302
585 Manchester ········-· 326
Garden Grove .... 461
58'1 Valley Forge -·-··-·- 419
588 El Sereno ......... ··-·· 423
589 Kauai ----················ 119
590 Compass ·············-·· 343
591 Escalon -················· 163
592 Tujunga -············-·- 365
593 All States ···········--· 526
594 Service ............. .... 906
595 A G. Bell .............. 264
596 Guardian -·-··········- 976
598 Pearl Harbor -·-··-- 631
599 Carmelita ···········-- 353
IOO Lynwood ·-············ 568
801 Grizzly ·················- 119
802 Melrose ················-- 256
I03 Dimond ··--········-··· · 264
I04 Jubilee ··········--·····- 428
Gl~sell Park ·········- 395
SoJourner -············- 318
I08 ~an.ada ··-·····-··-···· 784
ov1dent ··-··-··-····· 512
Ill Elmhurst .............. 274
Canoga ·····-··········· 484
•12 Temple City -·····-· 548
113 [!ree Pillars ···-···- 460
He~~f1ont ............ 371
·········· ·········· 296
IUS
~ E. Dolley .......... 263
117 1g Bear ................ 164
.la Southland ............ 382
~eptune ................ 31 4
IZ1 ~mt Loma -·······-· 711
A e Gardens ·······- 531
IZI Mtwater --··-········- 374
at F enorah ---········-···· 1210
IZI A~i!~~eM~~~········ 629159
·····Ch
at ~la
Vista .......... 698
lrl
. . Trutbnda Park .... 316
F . . -···-··-·············- 238
•
Z:,~v1~w --·-·········--- 297
•
es1de ·····-·········- 209
5'11
572
573
5'14
5'15
5'16
5'11
5'18
5'19

=

:0

IU

:g

az

1964
Contrlb.

1S64 Membership
P1rtlcipatlon

580.25*
1,070. 19•
172.00·
1,979.11 *
488.50*
1,873.0l •
1,186.37•
2,194.94•
2,062.06*
769.00*
1,295.80•
773.78•
972.67•
1,003.51 *
1,377.22•
1,980.01 *
1,149.33•
1,543.99•
470.50*
1,146.00•
67.00
1,141.42•
1,687.75•
3,387.67•
1,724.09*
3,770.52•
2,391.25•
1,818.12•
2,086.96*
320.00·
764.58•
885.oo•
1,396.31•
1,433.62*
1,021.46•
2,245.54*
1,563.39•
613.00·
1,455.80•
2,514.33"
1,369.08 •
1,843.59*
1,114.00•
1,068.15•
486.oo•
1,237.18*
688.18*
1,528.30*
1,600.00·
1,789.33*
6,489.55*
488.00•
l , 758.90•
2, 153.02•
1,081.77•
719.38•
1,109.03•
722.00·

%

67
37
47
50
63
44
45
57
73
81
53
43
55
34
58
55
53
44
55
69
11
59
46
57
59
64
55
55
59
60
30
44
46
57
39
44
51
37

39
55
51
61
71
40
47

50
45
35
35
64

57
39
94
51
51
46

49
62

91
1965

1965
Contrlb.

664.75•
1,208.33*
185.39"
1,931.19"
869.54.
1,900.84•
1,183.90*
2,348.13*
2,170.31 *
814.50"
1,279.83•
1,034.16*
882.49*
986.32*
1,220.59*
2,054.71 *
1,337.26•
1,370.93•
499.50•
1,245.52*
93.50
1,366.66•
2, 139.99 •
3,698.89*
1,819.62*
4,857.92•
2,321.00*
1,861.52*
3,225.83*
446.25*
1,090.41 *
884.12*
1,519.67•
1,353.20•
874.10*
2,043.18*
1,865.50•
709.oo•
2,074.12*
2,399.51 •
1,441.93*
1,594.25*
1,276.50•
1,132.75•
532.oo•
1,204.65•
716.02 *
1,170.25
1,470.41 •
2,095.65•
7,966.03•
409.00
1,842.60*
2,138.40•
1,131.61 *
732.08•
1,221.17•
800.50*

1'1rtklpatlon

Members %

139 67
117 35
34 48
252 44
170 77
241 40
153 40
290 60
451 68
93 74
217 54
162 48
167 50
115 38
132 40
234 51
165 39
245 58
60 50
231 67
22 13
213 58
334 63
583 64
158 60
766 78
338 54
209 59
467 82
93 78
132 52
146 55
230 54
221 56
100 31
327 42
300 59
108 39
272 56
296 54
306 67
160 43
211 71
167 63
80 49
186 49
88 28
220 31
167 31
232 62
805 67
67 31
687 99
360 52
140 44
99 42
137

46

147

70

Contrlb.
"""''
Per

Mtmber

3.20
3.61
2.61
3.36
3.93
3.19
3.08
4.82
3.26
6.46
3.19
3.09
2.63
3.27
3.74
4.46
3.19
3.24
4.20
3.63
.57
3.74
4.07
4.08
6.89
4.98
3.68
5.27
5.68
3.75
4.26
3.35
3.55
3.43
2.75
2.61
3.64
2.59
4.29
4.38
3.13
4.30
4.31
4.31
3.24
3.15
2.28
1.65
2.77
5.60
6.58
1.87
2.65
3.06
3.58
3.08
4.11
3.83

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

92

No.

Lodge

1965
Membenhlp

631 Benevolen ce ........ 260
817
632 Normal Heights
633 Poinsettia .............. 747
634 Victorville -·--·------- 293
635 Riverside .............. 658
636 John Marsha ll .... 285
637 Palisades ·----· ········ 429
638 Ind ian R ock ----···· 193
639 Composite ............ 740
641 James A. Foshay .. 205
642 La Cumbre .......... 344
643 Alta Loma ............ 378
644 Lomita -----·········-··· 380
645 A. F. E. Irwin .... 257
646 Metropolit an ........ 182
647 Hawthorne ···---···· 588
741
648 Damascus
649 Florence ·····--·--······· 388
650 La Brea ..... ...... ...... 251
651 Menlo Park .......... 359
652 Crescenta Valley .. 637
653 Fontana ·····-------·--- 397
654 Jordan ·················· 414
655 Monte Vista .......... 843
656 Citro! ...................... 265
657 John D. Spreckels 672
658 Livingston ·····-······ 208
659 La Habra .............. 289
660 Baldwin Park ...... 357
661 Malta ...................... 263
662 Henry Knox ........ 404
191
663 Ojai ...................
665 Kaweah ·-······-------- 136
666 Reseda ·········--······ ·· 880
667 Meridian ................ 512
668 San Gorgonio ...... 272
669 John P. Jarman .. 313
670 Greenleaf ····-·-···--·- 906
671 San Clemente ...... 159
672 La guna Beac h ...... 204
673 F ar West .............. 349
674 Los Cerritos .......... 548
675 Modes to ················ 542
676 Willow Glen ........ 414
677 Liberal Arts ········ 444
678 Altadena ·······----··· 519
679 Canby Cross ---····· 134
680 Carmel ------·····------· 262
681 Dos Palos .............. 167
682 Barstow -·-············· 463
683 Redwood Empire 123
684 Tron a ·· ··· ··············· 158
685 San Marino .......... 474
686 Albany .... ............... 217
687 Vist a ....................... 348
688 Oil dale ···--·······----- 283
90
689 Pohona ··················
690 San Carlos ............ 479

1964
Contrlb.

1964 Memti.rshlp
P1rtlcl1>1llon

%

622.86•
1,857.05•
1,173.70
653.15°
2,255.79"
1,051.65·
2,529.63 *

73
40
22
52
72
64
68

2,881.50*
766.90°
1,860.90*
1,507.35*
1,294.95°
973.33*
966.45*
1,844.05.
2,206.91 •
1,040.41 •
1,430.18*
732.50°
1,893.37*
l ,295.30*
1,184.15*
3,430.99*
927.17*
1,468.00*
514.50·
1,069.47°
1,188.08*
962.23*
1,995.26"
776.79•
211.50
3,015.57°
1,672.80°
886.25°
637.75°
2,934.85*
411.00°
49.00
836.oo•
1,589.68*
1,254.14•
819.00
1,625.55*
1,803.57•
240.00
534.50•

59
52
71
37
52
55
76
46
43
38
27
35
51
50
42
50
45
37
49
71
37
33
49
55
33
51
47
49
39
39
46
2
48
60
38
33
61
51
38
42

1,370.60*
349.76*
475.50•
2,584.49•
398.00
449.43
1,018.50•

50
47
56

1,430.20°

51

72

45
25
82

1965
Contrlb.

735.33•
1,709.55°
1, 748.34°
1,096.oo•
2,370.76•
916.74•
2,160.41 •
569.25*
2,968.oo•
803.93"
1,940.99•
1,768.04*
1,631.73•
1,155.27*
858.37•
2,219.14°
2,516.41 *
1,232.65*
1,575.50•
1,077.25·
2,255.86*
1,409.76•
1,258.99•
2,713.54*
1,053.oo•
1,685.32*
588.90°
1,191.26*
1,336.78*
1,607.44•
1,934.oo•
1,060.05•
296.oo•
3,530.78"
1,568.44*
816.oo•
839.75*
3,365.48*
413.oo•
871.28·
1,156.25*
1,576.43•
1,372.00•
1,333.90*
1,614.71 •
1,730.62•
425.50*
535.75•
788.00°
775.08
421.oo•
539.00*
2,761.67*
533.45•
782.94•
1,048.00*
163.00
1,494.95•

1965
P11tlclp1tlon
lkmben

"'

141 54
286 35
239 32
196 67
440 67
132 46
248 58
105 54
447 60
97 47
226 66
169 45
178 47
148 58
125 69
285 48
343 46
174 45
88 35
150 42
356 56
165 42
187 45
355 42
142 54
300 45
101 49
230 80
151 42
197 75
201 50
136 71
62 46
466 53
209 41
96 35
149 48
573 63
73 46
173 85
246 70
320 58
189 35
199 48
289 65
261 50
71 53
104 40
232 100
91 20
68 55
102 65
362 76
108 50
141 41
220 78
43 48
252 53

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

.....

...
.......

~

2.83
2.09
2.34
3.74
3.60
3.22
5.04
2.9$
4.01
3.92
5.64
4.68
4.29
4.50
4.72
3.77
3.40
3.11

6.28

3.00

3.54

3.5$

3.04
3.22
3.97
2.51
2.81
4.12

3.7t
6.11

4.'11
5.5$
2.11
4.01

3.0I

3.00
2.61
3.71
2.11
4.27
3.31
2.81
2.53
3.22
3.64

3.31

3.11

2.04

4.72

1.67
3.41
3.41
5.81

2.41
2.21
3.71
1.81
3.12

...

Lodp

1965
Membenhlp

Indian Wells
Valley ................ 456
206
692 Travelel"S .............. 266
......
693 Palm Springs ........
284
Antonio
694 San
695 Meudell ................ 226
............ 354
696 Crossroads
697 Saint Elmo ............ 279
Step hens 195
698 wm. D.
699 Bixby Knolls ........ 395
700 Ponder osa --·-··-··--· 383
701 Santa Ynez
Valley ···········-···· 154
702 Rosemead .............. 255
703 Westcheste r .......... 489
704 Orinda .................. 280
705 El Cerrito ......... .... 223
706 Hunters Point
Naval ---------·--···· 235
707 Lake Tahoe .......... 105
708 Seafaring -------------- 523
709 Lorenzo ·····-·-----···· 379
710 Anacapa ................ 266
711 Rim of the World 192
712 Los Altos ... ........... 243
713 Castro Valley ...... 339
240
7H Blue Lakes
715 Magnolia P a rk .... 321
....
376
716 Belmont Shore
717 Wayfarer
202
718 San Lorenzo
Valley ·····-------··· 102
719 Estero ······· ············· 159
720 Mineral King ...... 116
721 Home ··-······ -·-········ 568
722 George E. Tutt .... 188
723 Acalanes ................ 198
724 San Ram on
Valley ················ 165
725 Saint J ohn's ······-- 254
726 Yucaipa ····· ·· ········ 232
727 Verdugo H ills ...... 108
728 Lakewood ............ 277
729 Centen nial ···-··-·---- 169
730 Polaris ·················· 190
731 Two Rivers
.......... 191
'132 San Juan .............. 236
733 Golden E mpire .... 170
734 Kit Carson ............ 198
735 Oasis of Ma ra ...... 131
736 Lemon Grove ...... 462
737 Hillsborough ........ 196
738 Arvin ..... .............. 135
'Ill La Canada ............ 166
Tto Opportunity ........ 233
741 TYre .................... .... 267
742 Morningsid e Park 193
7'3 Oakwood .............. 111
7'4 San Leandro ........ 210
891

1964 M•mbersh Ip
P1rtlclpallon

93

._.,,

%

1965
Contrib.

1965
P1rtlclpatlon
Members %

Contrlb.
Per
Member

940.50•
614.oo•
859.03°
858.41°
1HU6
1,246.08•
1.242.00•
1,748.oo•
1,830.67°
921.50*

69
51
69
47
2
77
54
100
73
58

1,075.25*
577.25•
1,571.33°
922.78•
1,220.43°
1,275.oo•
1.179.50*
693.00·
2,006.15*
966.45°

365 80
98 48
171 64
138 49
287 100
275 78
137 49
83 43
254 64
224 58

2.36
2.80
5.91
3.25
5.40
3.60
4.23
3.55
5.08
2.52

551.25*
1,084.48°
1,975.86 *
738.50*
689.36*

97
65
65
74
62

506.oo•
930.31 *
1,755.22*
845. 00·
703.47•

104 68
130 51
246 50
181 65
146 65

3.29
3.65
3.59
3.02
3.15

861.50•
338.43•
1,765.69°
1,434.40*
1.243.57°
393.72•
1,037. 50*
1,340.75*
684.00·
1,485.29 •
2,391.40*
623.32°

74
40
47
81
71
63
67
92
75
67
43
37

938.00*
417. 50°
1.710.44•
1,414.65•
1,307. 92•
671.94•
830.50*
1,626.10*
770.00•
1,274.05•
1,537.07•
578.41.

200 85
47 45
224 43
288 76
187 70
132 69
148 61
356 100
155 65
191 60
182 48
69 34

3.99
3.98
3.27
3.73
3.50
3.42
4.80
3.21
3.97
4.09
2.86

338.00*
483.98*
347.50*
1,481.43*
613.00*
439.33*

96
56
48
59
58
35

332.00•
510.00*
48·to5•
1,682.49•
572.50*
796.50*

82 80
96 GO
58 50
411 72
117 62
110 56

3.25
3.21
4.17
2.96
3.05
4.02

555.50•
719.00 *
828.25•
613.06•
l ,0-!8.1 8°
692.65 °
864.61 *
792.70 •
1,017.25•
1,100.00•
917.ou•
245.00
1,378.79°
985.00·
433.25 •
877.36*
1.508.54*
1,236.05•
825.03•
649.49•
607.50•

47
40
80
85
65
54
69
75
65
86
66
99
44
58
63
66
64
76
97
88
49

495.50•
793.oo•
504.50•
671.86*
1,203.39*
971.41 •
769. 75•
904.45*
835.75 °
l ,IOo.ou•
1,144.28*
288.50•
1,178.55•
967.oo•
539.52*
958.5 1*
1.447.56*
935.09•
811.25•
683.72•
867.00*

70 42
120 47
103 44
90 83
159 57
129 76
110 58
216 100
128 54
144 85
144 73
118 90
174 38
110 56
99 73
121 73
138 59
169 63
201 100
90 81
128 61

3.00
3.12
2.17
6.22
4.34
5.75
4.05
4.74
3.54
6.47
5.78
2.20
2.55
4.93
4.00
5.77
6.21
3.50
4.20
6.16
4.13

1964
Contrib.

4.92

94

No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS O P THE

lode•

1965
Membership

745 Peninsula ..............
746 Soquel ....................
747 Claude H.
Morrison ..........
748 Highland ..............
749 Merced ·····-···········
750 Mother Colony ....
751 Hamilton ..............
752 Luther Burbank ..
753 Lawndale ..............
754 San Pablo ............
755 Golden Bowl ........
756 Clayton Valley......
757 Channel ................
758 Wes t Covina ........
759 El Rancho..............
760 Lakeside ................
761 J osiah W. Roller..
762 Coastside ..............
763 Arabic ..................
764 Heritage ................
765 Dana R. Weller ....
766 James H. K ew......
767 W. R. Hervey......
768 Zenith ....................
769 Palmdale
770 Lake Chabot ........
771 Mission Bay ........
772 Avenal ..................
773 Tejon .............. ........
774 Waikiki ................
775 San Dieguito ........
776 East Whittier ......
777 Pinnacle ................
778 La Mirada ............
779 Five Points ..........
780 Riviera .............. ....
781 Rolling Hills ........
782 Silverado ..............
783 Mojave .............. ....
784 Le land Stanford..
785 Paramount ............
786 Rio Linda ..............
787 Westminster ........
788 Sierra ....................
789 Oak Plains ............
790 Granada Hills ......
791 General Henry H.
Arnold ..............
792 Millbrae ................
793 Maya ....................
794 Mt. Wilson ............
795 American River ....
796 Golden Valley......
797 Tila Pass ..............
798 Ashland ................
799 Bay Claire Vista..
800 Rio Hondo ............

1964
Contrlb.

1964 Membership
P11tklpetlon

1965
Contrlb.

1965
Participation
Members %

A-.19
Contrlb.
Per

Member

167
178

818.75•
513.oo•

%
71
73

142
216
168
183
159
210
224
136
207
287
131
210
230
122
192
141
185
174
146
159
155
277
239
154
211
62
211
167
221
212
54
187
105
159
130
137
91
154
126
116
124
86
205
149

287.oo•
592.01 •
377.oo•
413.39•
357.67•
731.75•
868.41 •
318.75•
1,027.08•
943.30•
428.50•
1,240.52·
450.00•
368.50.
625.50·
531.25•
825.oo•
592.02•
724.69•
985.oo•
773.oo•
1,653.34•
932.92•
440.oo•
783.oo•
159.21 •
622.01 *
624.00*
424.00*
622.43*
189.oo•
1,106.25•
454.57*
1,254.97 •
670.01 •
255.00
377.15*
497.oo•
448.48*
1,154.58•
389.12•
301.00•
1,030.50*
833.31 *

58
57
55
36
47
79
54
39
79
49
56
80
32
60
100
85
82
56
90
63
63
64
65
66
66
47
95
66
31
47
91
100
55
100
52
54
83
76
82
100
60
58
84
73

313.50*
644.49•
550.00•
376.60*
363.50*
680.00*
940.46*
331.75•
1,193.41 *
1,053.30*
431.00*
1,110.49*
662.88*
525.oo•
2,208.00•
583.75•
637.50•
814.96•
796.60•
992.32*
794.00*
1,803.80*
1,199.61 *
462.50*
853.75•
268.64•
975_31 •
849.91 •
675.oo•
986.28•
191.50°
1,323.00°
792.46*
1,293.14*
1,058.75*
303.50*
428.25•
554.00*
577.92•
1,277.83•
396.28*
116.00•
905.75•
1,088.50*

78 55
133 62
97 58
57 31
67 42
145 69
131 58
48 35
150 72
142 49
63 48
147 70
92 40
96 79
392 100
111 79
106 57
117 67
116 79
110 69
99 64
183 66
143 60
111 72
142 67
44 71
204 97
108 65
108 49
162 76
50 93
180 96
86 82
159 100
77 59
77 56
81 89
121 79
89 71
116 100
70 56
32 37
141 69
116 78

2.21
2.98
3.27
2.06
2.29
3.24
4.20
2.44
5.77
3.67
3.29
5.29
2.88
4.30
11.50
4.14
3.45
4.68
5.46
6.24
5.12
6.51
5.02
3.00
4.05
4.33
4.62
5.09
3.05
4.65
3.55
7.07
7.55
8.13
8.14
2.22
4.71
3.51
4.59
11.02
3.20
2.05
4.42
7.31

140
76
96
154
161
162
118
106
80
124

497.oo•
259_50•
359.43*
729.52*
559.92*
509.24*
606.oo•
274.00·
281.75•
1,023.oo•

71
51
69
56
56
45
57
45
65
89

701.95•
262.50•
275.46*
785.so•
507.oo•
447.23*
1,519.49•
332.00•
255.50*
1,219.39*

139 99
36 47
54 56
120 78
84 52
75 46
129 100
64 60
44 55
103 83

5.01
3.45
2.87
5.10
3.15
2.76
12.88
3.13
3.19

694.oo•
550.00*

90
120

54
67

4.16
3.09

9.83

...
801

I.Aide•

1965
....,.bershlp

Koolau .................. 90
802 Yucca Valley ........ 136
66
803 The Gabilan ........
Moreno Valley .... 56
804 Camellia
................ 130
805
Valley ........ 94
sos Simi
807 Conejo Valley ...... 114
Scepter .................. 110
sos Los
Alamitos ........ 82
809
73
810 Victoria P alms ....
811 Woodland Hills.... 117
83
812 Triad ....................
86
813 Old West ..............
814 Plaza de Los
68
Angeles ............
78
815 Mt. Baldy .......... ..
58
816 Wm. B. Ogden ....
56
817 Manhattan ............
80
818 Great Lights ........
99
Frank S. Land......
Mar Vista .............. 70
Gateway ................ 29
TOTAL .............. 244,586
So. Calif. Research 114
No. Calif. Research 90
El Camino Research 52
Central Calif.
Research ............ 72

GRAND TOTAL ···-···244,914

1964 Mambershlp
Participation

95
l..,.p
Contrlb.

,.,
.._...,

268.25•
767.82*
281.50•
171.88•
914.oo•
267.50•
386.66.
534.47*
219_50•
323.50•
490.34•
511.36•
395.59*

%

1965
Contrib.

1965
l'llrtklpallon
Members %

61
82
57
68
79
80
61
95
46
100
87
100
100

300.00•
350.00•
198.oo•
198.13*
1,119.45•
268.oo•
457.50*
616.75*
582.43*
303.50•
564.31 •
401.71 •
606.47•

61 68
69 51
41 62
44 79
105 81
61 65
70 61
103 94
38 46
47 64
83 71
53 64
89 100

3.33
2.57
3.00
3.54
8.61
2.85
4.01
5.61
7.10
4.16
4.82
4.84
7.05

309.oo•
194_50•
440.oo•
262.45*
133.24*

loo
75
loo
82
82

407.50•
242.18°
348.57°
150.50•
246.45°
209.oo•
169.39*

62 91
66 85
36 62
31 55
38 48
37 37
29 41

5.99
3.10
6.01
2.69
3.08
2.11
2.42

226.58•
34.80

46
47

23.93

l

1964
Contrlb.

1

Overall A v~~ge Cont~ibutiOn - 6:84
51
846,895.50 123,854

. REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This is the Eleventh Annual Report of the Board pf Trustees of the
"'\
California Masonic Memorial Temple.
At the close of the 1964 Annual Communication of Grand LOOge
the Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple m!ft in Annual
Meeting. The President. Ralph H . Head, reported the election of Myron
E . Smith as Deputy Grand Master, Laurence E . Dayton as Senior
Grand Warden, and John F. Porter as Junior Grand Warden. On
proper motion they were duly elected members of the Board of Trustees
as provided in the California Masonic Code.
The Board then proceeded to organize with Ralph H . Head as
President, Samuel I. Jacobs as Vice-President. Paul A. Pflueger. Grand
Treasurer, as Treasurer, and Edward H . Siems, Past Grand Master
and Grand Secretary. as Secretary.
The terms of the appointed members of the Board were as follows:
Expiring in 1965, ~alph H . Head and Lyle Patton, expiring in 1966,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

T. Galt Atwood and Chester T. MacPhee, and expiring in 1967 Samuel
I. Jacobs and Phil N. Myers, Past Grand Master. During the year Phil
N. Myers was appointed to the Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes
and Howard M. McKinley was apopinted to serve in his place.
In his letter to the Phillipians, the Apostle Paul wrote "This one
thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth
unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark."
No words could more eloquently express the dreams, the hopes, the
planning. and the determina tion which has brought to fruition the California Masone Memorial Temple. The goal was set by Past Grand
Master John R. Moore in his message to Grand Lodge in 1947. It was
implemented by the resolution s of the 1951 Communica tion of Grand
Lodge which supported the Report of the Committe e on Memorial
Temple, Chairman of which was Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems.
On October 26, 1955, ground was broken. On Septembe r 19, 1956,
the cornerston e was laid, and on Monday, Septembe r 29, 1958, California Masonic Memorial Temple was dedicated at the 109th Annual
Communi cation of the Grand Lodge of California .
Your Trustees have chosen in this Report to pass briefly in review
that which started as a dream and ended in fulfillment because in the
year ahead we will arrive at another important milestone in the history
of California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Before Grand Lodge meets again in 1966 all of the outstandin g debt
will have been retired. As of the preparatio n of this report in the first
week of Septembe r, I 965, the amount due on loans amounts to $221 .790.00 and the way is now crystal clear for the complete retirement of
this remaining debt by this time in 1966. It will then be the privilege of
your Trustees to deliver to this Grand Lodge at its I 17th Annual Communication evidence that this Temple, erected to God and dedicated to
those members of the fraternity who gave that last full measure of
devotion, intrinsical ly valued at more than six million dollars. is free
of all financial incumbran ce.
Thus will have passed nineteen years of hopes and aspiration s, planning and preparatio n, accomplishment and culmination. Truly as Paul
wrote "This one thing we do."
Since the last Annual Communi cation seventeen Lodges have gained
Merit Roll status. 0 f 709 Lodges, only 109 have yet to attain the goal.
When they do so, as could well happen during the next year with the
horizon of debt retirement close at hand, $I 66.084 .00 will have been
added to the financial stability of the Temple. We wish to highly commend Districts 220 and 528 on becoming " Honor Districts" during the
past year as all of the Lodges in those inspectoral districts became
Merit Roll Lodges.
The Trustees have high praise for the efficiency and good judgment

.
of the Temple Building Manager, Broth G
supervision total building income dur· er th eo~ge D. Gavm. Under his
mg e seal year, including the
appropriat e charge to Grand Lod
expense including payroll utilitTees, amo~nted to $162, l 05.00. Building
• mamtenan ce. • insura nee an d rea l
•
estate taxes combined with minimum ad 1. .
an operating profit as shown in the com % t:i~r~~iv~ expen~es produced
prepared by independe nt accountan ts : d h~ it~ financial statement
part of this report. Only interest on the ~eb~ ich is to be c~nsidered a
· soon to be retired, caused
a net expense for the year.
.
fl
To deliver at last a building free f
cause for celebration, but it is truly i:~m 'financial ~ien may be proper
the overall objectives and purposes w~Yc~ ~=:t ; en compared with
se a dream castle to
become a magnificent vibrant livin
t~ the principles and
Jent
Mgas:~i~u;
Califo;nia
nry:
Freemaso
of
ideals
.em~rial Temple was built
in the hearts and minds of men It w'll b
o:iahm.tamed, it will grow and
prosper only so long as men of .good IWI·11eWIS
It SO.
.
submitted
lly
Respectfu
RALPH H. HEAD, President ( 1968)
OFFICERS AND T RUSTEES:

96

SAMUEL I. JAcoss, Vice-President ( 1967)
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Secretary
MYRON E. SMITH, Deputy Grand Master
LAURENCE E. DAYTON ' Senior G ran d W ard en
Grand Warden
JOHN F . PORTER, Junior
LYLE E. PATTON, Trustee ( 1968 )
T. GALT ArwooD .. Trnstee ( 1966 )
CHESTER R. MACPHEE , Trustee ( 1966)
HOWARD H . M cKINLEY, Trustee ( 1967 )
Referred to Committe e on Finance.

Toth T

REPORT OF THE MANAG ER

Breti:en~stees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple:
.
As this report is being written
its seventh birthday. It continueso~~ a~trl~ct1ve Te~ple has celebrated
cultural life of San Francisco. Its beaut o a pr~mment place in the
d . yfand d1gn1ty have become well
known throughou t the Bay A
rea an . in act, many parts of the world.
TOURS AND VISITATIONS
h
f k . .
e ave continued our polic
~img the Temple open for
Visitors on Saturdays and Sundaysy fo
noon to ~ p .m.
It has been our pleasure to welc~mro~
countries, which include Austr 1· eH rethren and v1s1tors from many
SWitzerland, Germany Ph·i · . a ia,T ong. Kong. France, Belgium,
Fiji, Virgin Islands. '1ce1~~~p11Cs, dasm~ma, Austria, New Zealand.
enmark. Jamaica, Finland,
• ana a,

w

97

98

PROCEED INGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

Nethula nds, Ireland, China, Malasia, Okinawa , Korea, Nigeria, India,
Japan, South Africa, Norway, Brazil, Argentin a, Scotland, Sweden ,
Turkey and Holland.
Inspecto r Edward Lohmeyer's Tour Committee has helped materially
with special visiting groups. These included Lodges, De Molay, Job 's
Daughte rs, Rainbow for Girls, and several Senior Citizen groups.
MAINTEN ANCE

High standard s of maintena nce have been established. We are
stxiving to preserve the Temple's outward appearan ce of beauty, as well
as its valuable and extensive mechanical equipme nt and properties.
The cost of supplies and outside services and our janitorial salaries
have increased consider ably during the past year.
We are pleased to report that, through economies and adjustme nt
in our operating procedur es, our overall maintenance expense was again
reduced.
INCOME

The income from the operatio n of the garage continues to improve.
This is due to occupan cy of our Auditorium and to the other attractio ns
in the vicinity.
CONVEN TION AND THEATR E DEVELOP MENTS

In our report last year we talked about the remodeling work which
was under way in the San Francisc o Civic Auditorium and the completion of the new San Francisc o Hilton Hotel. Both of these facilities are
now in full operation, and have been for most of the year. Two theatres
on the peninsula have entered the field . looking for the entertain ment
and convention dollar.
We have been able to develop business for our Auditorium to offset
some of the convention business. which formerly used our Exhibit Hall.
Our Auditori um has become well known among the producer-s of concerts, and we continue to enjoy very fine acceptability.
We can, however , look for further developments in this field by
outside interests. The November ballot will carry a twenty-n ine million
dollar Bond issue for developing, extendin g and improving the War
Memorial Opera House in the Civic Center.
There is also considerable effort being put forth to secure support
for the developm ent of a Sports Arena and Convention Center in the
South of Market area. It is our feeling tha t the T emple will always be
in demand due to our fine facilities and outstand ing location atop Nob
Hill.

99
Makem
and
Bros.
Christy M~nstre~s - Clancy
Montovan1 - Richter _ Greco
London, Hague and Chicago Symphonies
Budapes t String Orchestr a
U.S. Army Band, Washing ton, D. C.
. h
U. C. Marchin g Band closed its U S T
Bobby Dylan - Smother s BrOS. · · our in t e Auditori um
Roger M iller - Ferrante & Teiche
r
Bill Cosby - Al Hirt
Benefit
ion
Foundat
Tom Dooley
Finlandia Founda tion
The Auditorium and E xhibit Hall 1 cl
activities other than concerts. The Eb en ~e~~elves to a variety of
Yarn Fashion Show, and Macy's 'teen ~ye pas IOU s.how, Spinnerin
held on our stage, and the Chinese Miss gCh. op Fashion Show, were
matown . U.S.A. Pageant
was again presented. We were ve h
w?r~ with the_ American
~~~to
Dental Association, Californ ia Rea7Es:
cCtion, American Bankssf
.
t
America
of
Bank
ion,
ers Associat
1
onferenc.e and others.
s:~~na
Anni:fr
reported
ly
previous
We have
d ~olders Meetmgs for such
corporations as Westinghouse Ele t .
year The Standard Oil Compa u/ r;c ~n Jenera! Electric. Early this
Coast Annual Stockhol ders Meet· o dew ersey held its first West
the Annual Meeting of Stockhol~ng, a~ Swas followed in thirty days by
feel this type of usage is very des'er~ ° ~e~ry Rand C orporation. We
will continue to enjoy favorable ira ~d an . tt ~ay be expected that we
c?nsi eratton m this field.
The American Coll
~~:~istr~tors held ~heir Annual
::it~f
<?onvocation followed ~~eao~~~
Ch mencan Hospital AssociaMg
beautiful
and
famous
tion. The
the Auditorium stage. It was an o:~~onnd. oir of 350 voices sang from
. mg and long to be remembered
evening. We have many concerts
making ready for the Internati onarfJec ted_ into next year. We are
ndustrial C~nference, Salvation
Army Centennial, and eleven da s
y of the Internati onal Film Festival.
starting on October 20.

1

OCCUPAN CY

The United States Governm ent and th U S
e · .S.R. have a yearly
interchange of Cultural and Ind tr · 1
.' This year the exchang e
J?f~gr~s
covers "Childre n's Creative W~r~~.
States has selected
n1ted
e
.
.
R
the
and
three cities in Russia
has selected three
te
lConwa
~ss~~n
th
for
s'tates
United
the
in
cities
"Childre n's Creative Work" of e~ Sp ~Y· . e are pleased that the
.t e ov1et will be displayed in our
Exhibit Hall for a month sta t.
Gberhand ending in the middle
of December. World Wide ~~79 lll(~~tm
1 Y ra am) will show films for
ms
three days.

We thought you might be intereste d in knowing the names of a
few of the artists and groups who utilized our facilities during the past
year.

. The Temple enjoys a very favorable image w h.tch we hope to main. .
tain and strength en . C 1v1c
"bl
h
contacts are mad
w ~n poss1 e. We were
re~elected to the Director ship of the S
an rancisco Convent ion and
VJSitors Bureau.

F

1()()

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
STAFF

We are fortunate our staff has a feeling of personal interest in the
Temple and its activities. Consequently this feeling reflects favorably
with those we contact.
We have enjoyed the opportunity to carry on the responsibilities of
our office and to work with the brethren. They have been kind and
though tful and have given us their full cooperation.
The big objective for the coming year is freeing the Temple from all
debt. This, we hope, will be accomplished through the guidance of the
Board of Trustees and the response from the brethren.
Respect£ ully submitted,
GEORGE D. GAVIN , Manager

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:
The Board of Control herewith submits its annual report incorporating the activities of our Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus.
"To relieve the distress is a duty incumbent on all men but particularly on Masons." That doctrine with its implications has existed in
Masonry from time immemorial and yet, my Brethren, how star tling
it is to find so many of our Brethren who had little or no knowledge of
its perpetuation through the efforts of our Boards of Relief!
As a remedial measure the Board of Control will continue its planned
"educational program" of disseminating information relating to Boards
of Relief in order that our Brethren may become more enlightened as
to the purposes, functions and objectives of our Boards. To implement
this program the Secretaries of our Boards of Relief have prepared
monographs on "Why a Board of Relief" which have been edited by
the Board of Control into an abridged treatise which we hope soon to
have released in the California Freemason.
It has long been the concern of the Board that many Lodges are
receiving benefits from the Boards of Relief without contributing their
share of responsibility. The geographical location of Lodges within our
Grand Lodge jurisdiction has been converted to map form. These colored maps make easily discernible the non~member Lodges of Boards of
Relief and have been use ful instruments in the study and analysis of
services rendered by Boards of Relief within their territorial environment. It is hoped that by means of our visitations and addresses to
Lodges throughout the jurisdiction, and the distribution of pertinent
materials, they will be encouraged to join existing Boards of Relief or
form new Boards. A Board of Relief is not an autonomous organization;
each Lodge has equal representation in its government and operations.
A program such as instituted will also serve a twofold purpose. It will

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

101

the average Mason, "the sideliner," an opportunity to actively

of~cipate and practice Masonry in its various facets;. for where, my

practiced out of the
evidence of Masonry
n can the tangible
.
.
ret re '
[.odge be so evident as m a Board of Relief?
The Board of Control is made up of five members who have been
lected geographically as to best serve the interests of those Boards
· th e po1.~cy
· It 1s
·
90 se
community.
Relief within their immediate or a diacent
of
of the Board to hold at least three secti~nal meeting.s e~ch year at which
we meet with our Boards of Relief Secretaries m order that we
time have personal contact with them, they with each other, and that
:ymaiy all have a better understanding of our respe~tive pro~le~s. and
ponsibilities. In addition, much time has been given by md1v1dual
of the Board of Control in working out specific problems
resembers
111
them and in advising, counseling and corresponding with
to
igned
98
Boards of Relief and in the analysis of audits and reports. ~!though
oards of Relief have been operating efficiently we are continuously
. .
our B to improve their operational method s. A new proced ure mstJtriving
:uted by the Board of Control whereb~ all ~oards ~£ Re~ief are requi~ed
to submit tenta tive budgets for cons1derat1on at its m1d~year meeting
has proved most beneficial in analyzing their respective needs.

parB h

BOARDS OF RELIEF

The Boards are established to perform those duties and obligations
which have been so clearly defined by Grand Lodge in the matter of
relief to the distressed or needy worthy brother, his widow and orphans.
By custom and procedure in the matter of charity they are en.dea~oring
to create a virtual California Masonic landmark. We now mamtam and
operate twenty Boards of Relief composed of 359 active and enthusiastic
Lodges with an aggregate membership of 152.369. Five of the Boards
also operate Employment Bureaus. During the past year one new Board
of Relief has been organized in the Southern Alameda County area. The
Lodges and their Brethren comprising the Board have embarked upon
their new undertaking with an enthusiasm and determination which
can only bode a long and successful association together.
The continued migra tion into California with its accompanied pro~
portion of sojourning Brethren, together with the much publicized recession throughout the country have caused considerable increased activities in our Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. Notwithstanding
this additional work that has been thrust upon them these devoted brethren and their employees continue to go far beyond the call of duty, on
foot and out of their way, in carrying out their work. No money can
buy that kind of devotion and dedication. Brethren, it can only be acquired by the applications of the tenets of Freemasonry to the hearts
of men. It is their unselfish labors that have earned for them and all of
us an enviable reputation among all Grand Lodge jurisdictions.

102

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Board of Control assures you that relief as a dministered in
this jurisdiction conforms in every detail to our ancient and honored
custom. Long practice in administration of relief has permitted us to
develop businesslike methods without detracting from proper consideration, understandin g and courteous attitude in the granting of relief.
Changing conditions of prosperity. depression , peace or war have not
permitted any deviation from our established practices. A review of the
rulings will show that relief as administered within the jurisdiction of
California has kept to the spirit and intent which our ancient Brethren
so wisely and care fully established. It is also worthy to note that the
San Francisco Board of Relief has taken on the added responsibility of
acting as trustee in the disbursement of funds to aid some sixty unfortunate Eureka flood Masonic family victims.
After carefully analyzing the audited reports which have been submitted by our twenty Boards of Relief. we ask your brief indulgence in
the following condensed satistics covering their operations during the
Masonic Year ended June 30. 1965:
Advanced for RelieL. ......................................... $21,909.69
Funerals conducted ....... ·----·--·---···------ ···..···········
1, 141
Total calls made..................................................
35.001
Calls on the sick..................................................
12,450
Investigations conducted ....................................
2,302
Relief calls made..................................................
9.551
Miscellaneous calls made....................................
8.650
It should be readily recognized that these activities although of great
magnitude are not even remotely associated with financial assistance.
It is regrettable that space does not permit the setting forth of specific
instances of the heartwarming examples of blessed relief.
BLOOD BANKS

M any of Boa rds of Relief operate M asonic Blood Banks , and those
which do not us ually have some other arrangement for providing blood
to Masons or their dependents when necessary. The following figures
indicate the extent of our blood donation activities during the past year.
Units of Blood donated................................................4,397
Units of Blood withdrawn............................................ 3,307
You will note that a substantial reserve of blood has been built up
during the year. The actual cost. in savings to our Masonic Family. by
this service was $80,745.60.
EMPLOYMENT B UREAU S

The prime purpose of our Employment Bureaus is to aid worthy
Brethren, their widows and orphans in securing employment, thereby

103

assisting in ~ain tai? ing their x:i~rale and avoidi~g the necessity of ~irect
relief. The mcreasmg compeht1on of our public placement agencies in
this field. as well as other factors , have occasioned a decline in our
placements the past years. and a corresponding rise in the cost of each
placement. The Bo~rd of Control has been keeping a concerned and
watchful eye on this trend for a number of years with the fear that if
it continued. there might come a time when the results in this field might
not justify their cost. It is interesting to note and certainly most encour~
aging that Employment Bureaus are now reporting a definite upsurge of
Job opportunities as a result of the publicity given our Bureaus in the
summer issue of California Freemason. The following figures briefly
cover the operations of our Employment Bureaus during the past Masonic Year:
Registered for employment.................... ............. ......... 4,747
Positions actually secured............................................ 724
Our Employment Bureaus operate w ithout charge either to employer
or employee. Had fees been charged on the basis of rate fi xed for commercial agencies. such employment opportunities would have cost the
members of the Fraternity and their families $75.036.83.
APPROPRIATIONS

It has been a custom of this Grand Lodge to financially assist our
Employment Bureaus where deemed expedient. The Board of Control
has ma~e a careful analysis of the appropriations being requested by
the various Bureaus and makes the following recommendations aggregating $ l 3,50Q.OO for the current Masonic Year :
East Bay................................................................ $3,697.00
Long Beach ............................................................ 2.900.00
Los Angeles ···-----·-·--.. ------··--·· ............................... 1,000.00
San Diego ......................................................... ... .. 3,412.00
San Francisco ...... .................................................. 2,500.00
We have referred the matter of these appropriations to the Chairman of the Finance Committee as required by Section 265 of the California Masonic Code.
REIMBURSEMENTS TO MASONIC BOARDS OP RELIEF

It h~s long been the policy of this Grand Lodge that no worthy
brother, or his immediate family. shall suffer in our Jurisd1ct1on for the necessities of life, or shall have other than a decent
burial upon his demise, regardless of the willingness or ability of the
brother's own Lodge to make us whole. Grand Lodge undertakes and
has in the past reimbursed Boards of Re lief for such unrecoverable
advances. We are most pleased to again report that although more
than $21 ,909.00 have been adva nced to sojourners and their dependents
~jo_urnmg

105

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

all monies have been repaid, thereby obviating the need for reimbursements .
. The Board of Control has received the utmost cooperation during
this past year from the Most Worshipful Grand Master, the Grand
Secretary and the Assistant Grand Secretary, as well as from their
officers and associates. We are most grateful for a 11 of their assistance
and their kindnesses.
Respectfully submitted.

tatY of the Lodge a Federal Form W-4, "Employee's Withholding
Exeroption Certificate." Reference to withholding tax tables furnished
by the Treasury Department will enable the Secretary to determine the
aroount to be withheld.

lOi

IRVING MAGNES
NORMAN E. HALE

ARTHUR DvoRIN
JOHN M. SWAN
LESTER S. McELw AIN

EXPIRATION OF TERM OF OFFICE OF BOARD OF CONTROL MEMBERS:

Irving Magnes .............................................................. 1965
John M. Swan ............................................................. .1965
Arthur Dvorin .............................................................. 1966
Norman E. Hale ............................................................1967
Lester S. McElwain ..................................................... .1967
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Since filing our report for 1964, there have been changes in the
payroll tax laws and the Federal Admissions Tax which apply to our
various Masonic organizations.
As has been our custom in past year.,s, we present, for reference purposes. the usual schedule of tax rates and wage bases for the various
payroll taxes which will be in effect during the calendar year 1966 and
thereafter.
Now pending before the U. S. Congress is Bill H. R. 8282 which
would effect major changes in both Federal and California Unemployment Tax possibly effective January I. 1966. The Federal taxable
wage base would be increased to $5,600.00 for 1967-1970 and $6,600.00
thereafter, and the net rate would be increased to 0.55% from the present 0.4%. The bill would also instigate changes for California purposes. It is quite possible that this legislation will not pass at least
this year. Mention thereof is made to post you on possible future
developments.
We again present in our report a section on Federal Admissions
Tax.
FEDERAL WITHHOLDING (INCOME) TAX

All ~age..s paid to employees of a Masonic Lodge are subject to
Federal mcome tax withholding. In order to determine the amount
of income tax which is to be withheld from wages paid to its employees.
the Lodge should ask each employee to complete and file with the Sec-

FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS ( SocIAL SECURITY)

An employee of a Masonic Lodge is subject to tax for each calendar
quarter during which he earns $50. or more. The tax rates shown below
are applicable to the first $6.600.00 ( $4.800.00 for 1965) of wages
paid to each employee during the calendar year. These rates are to be
paid by both the employer and the employee.
Calendar Year

1966
1967 and 1968
1969~1972 incl.
1973
1974 and 1975
1976~1979 incl.
1980-1 98 6 incl.
1987 and thereafter

FICA

PERCENTUM
Hospital lruurance

Total

3.85
3.9
4.4
4.85
4.85
4.85
4.85
4.85

.35
.5
.5
.55
.55
.6
.7
.8

4.2
4.4
4.9
5.4
5.4
5.45
5.55
5.65

As a practical matter, the total tax (i.e., 4.2% for 1966) may be applied to subject
wa11es with apportionment between the two taxes made on the report at time of filing.
FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT TAX

Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if they employ four or
more individuals who are paid $50 or more per calendar quarter. providing they have first qualified as an "employer" by employing four or
more employees-on at least one day in each of 20 or more weeks during
the calendar year. For this purpose, all paid employees of the Lodge.
including the Secretary and those who are performing ritualistic services
(Tiler, Organist, Soloist). should be counted if they receive $50 or
more per calendar quarter.
Federal Unemployment Tax at the rates shown below will be applicable to the first $3.000 of wages paid to each employee during the
calendar year. However, Lodges which are subject to the California
Unemployment Insurance Tax law, and which meet certain requirements, will be entitled to a credit up to 2.7%. Only the employer pays
Federal Unemployment Tax.
Maximum Credit
Calendar Year

(Gross)

Tax Rate

1966 and thereafter
3.1%
(as law now provides)

for Payment of
Calif. Unemp. Ins. Tax

Tax Rate
(Net)

2.7%

.4%

CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX

Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if the total wages paid
during a calendar quarter to taxable employees are in excess of $100.
For this purpose a taxable employee is one who is paid $50 or more

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

106

107

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

per calendar quarter. However, whether or not elected or appointed
officials of a Lodge are to be counted as taxable employees will depend
upon whether or not the Lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment
Tax Act.
If the Lodge is not subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act,
then the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be exempt
from California Unemployment Insurance Tax unless the wages paid to
these officials exceed $100 per month.
If the Lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act. then
the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be subject to
California Unemployment Insurance Tax if the wages paid to these
officials amount to $50, or more. per calendar quarter.
For purposes of thi's tax. the term "elected or appointed official" will
include any official of the Lodge who is compensated for his services.
Those usually compensated for their services are the Secretary, Tiler,
Organist, and Soloist.
If the Lodge is subject to California Unemployment Insurance Tax,
the tax rate shown below will be applicable to the first $4.100.00 paid to
each employee during the calendar year 1966. Only the employer pays
the tax. This base of $4,100.00 is effective for calendar years 1966 and
1967. Thereafter it will .fluctuate between $3,800.00 and $4.100.00 depending upon the condition of the fund .
Rates based on employment experience.
Graduated from 0.0 to .8% (depending upon which ra te schedule is
in effect) to a maximum of 2.7%. State will furnish notification of rate.
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX-BALANCING
ACCOUNT FUND

Wages subject to the tax under the heading "California Unemployment Insurance Tax" will be also subject to this tax at the rate of 1.0%
(in later years this could decrease to as little as .2% ). Only the employer pays this tax.
CALIFORNIA D1SABILITY INSURANCE TAX

The rules regarding coverage, discussed under the heading "California Unemployment Insurance Tax," are the same for this part of the
law. Only the employee pays this tax. The tax rate is 1.1 % for the
period August I, 1965, to December 31, 1965, reverting to 1.0%
January 1. 1966, and it is applied to the first $7.400.00 paid to each
employee.
FEDERAL ADMISSIONS TAX

This tax will be repealed December 31, 1965.
Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER L. CROCE
STANLEY DAVIS
ROBERT R. YORK

w.

THE GEORGE W ASI-IlNGTON
MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
It is again my privilege to bring to this Grand Lodge a report on the
Great Memorial on Shooters Hill, high a bove the Potomac River in
Alexandria, Virginia and overlooking the Nation's capitol - a memorial
erected by Masons to the memory and in honor of their distinguished
brother. George Washington, Master Mason , the first President of
his beloved country which he served so well as citizen, soldier and statesman.
We. as members of the Craft. can rejoice that those who comprised
the Grand Lodges of the United States in the early 1900' s caught the
vision of this memorial, then implemented their dreams by their efforts
and produced the great structure that now stands on Shooters Hill as
a beacon to all Americans who would pause and partake of the inspiration which ,s prings from being in the presence or atmosphere surrounding the memory of our illustrious brother.
In my report last year, there was the opportunity to give the background of the memorial. statistics on operating income and expense,
contributions to and condition of the Endowment Fund, and what you,
as a visitor. could expect to see should you be fortunate enough to visit
the Memorial. For you who may not have read it, may I suggest that
you refer to the 1964 proceedings. pages 173 to 176, for the report of
last year. Suffice it to say that the Grand Lodge of California with contributions totaling $537,324 plus $7.903 from York and Scottish Rite
Bodies stands third in total contributions to the Memorial and, for the
last fiscal year, we contributed $6.195 derived from the $1.00 contribution by each applicant for the degrees of Masonry. I can repeat that
the management of the Memorial is in the hands of able, competent men.
devoted to the task of keeping the Memorial in the best condition pos~
sible; making capital improvements as rapidly as possible - all this
with the somewhat limited funds available each year.
In this report, I want to tell you about the George Washington
Museum which is now being completed on the fourth floor and which
will be dedicated at the next annual meeting of the association to be
held at the memorial on February 22, 1966. As previously related, the
Memorial Building contains the Great Memorial Hall in which stands
the heroic bronze statue depicting brother George Washington as Mas~
ter of his Lodge, and in which are the two large murals presented by
the Grand Lodge of California. Other points of interest are the
Assembly Room housing the outstanding dioramas of events in the
life of our brother; the Replica Lodge Room; the Alexandria-Washington Lodge Room; rooms furnished by other Masonic Bodies; a fine
Masonic Library sponsored by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania; and
other interesting and significant exhibits.

109

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Noting one floor yet to be completed, the northern and southern
jurisdictions of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, through their
sovereign Grand Commanders, have made available sufficient Funds
with which to complete what will be known as the George Washington
Masonic Museum.
The intent is that exhibits or memorabilia to be displayed in the
Museum must be related directly to George Washington or the Washington family. From Alexandria-Washin gton Lodge No. 22 will come
important items. Four flags of the revolutionary period have been placed
at our disposal. Tattered and torn, damaged by the ravages of time. the
flags are being restored at substantial cost. They are:
1. The Lafayette Flag showing Washington on one side and an
eagle on the other.
2. A Flag o f the Alexandria Independent Blues.
3. Flag of the XI Virginia Regiment, bearing the date I 776.
4. Flag of General Washington's Life Guard.
Now let me tell you about a heart-warming event which took place
at our last annual meeting held at the Memorial on February 22. 1965.
Negotiations had been under way for some time with the Misses Anne
and Patty Washington, fifth generation descendants of John Augustine
Washington, a brother of George Washington. These charming
ladies, in their mid-eighties, had expressed their desire to give certain
extremely valuable possessions to the Memorial Association, chief of
which was the Washington family bible appraised at $25 ,000. But with
a true value of about $50.000. Also to be donated were the Chapman
portrait of the Augustine Washington family and numerous books.
These gifts are now ours and in the hands of expert craftsmen for
ne-cessary restoration before being pla ced on display in the Museum.
To quote Miss Patty Washington, who addressed those present at the
annual meeting, "It is a great satisfaction to us to know that these things
are where they will be so wonderfully cared for always. We are most
grateful to you all for what you are doing and I speak not only for
my sister a nd myself. but for all the other members of our family." It
was. indeed, a delight for all present to meet these spry and charming
ladies as they joined us at lunch that day.
The notable bronze statue of George Washing ton which stands
in the Memorial Hall was created by Bryant Baker. sculptor. A fine
bronze bust of Brother Washington, also created by Mr. Baker, is being
obtained for the Museum Room.
Yes, in due course of time, the Masonic Fraternity will offer as a
part of the Masonic Memorial a Great Washington Museum for all
Americans to visit and we expect to be able to exhibit items from Mt.
Vernon, the Smithsonian Institute, and, on occasion, from the Library
of Congress. And, my brethren, beyond the importance of rare exhibits

ill the Museum and in other rooms of the Memorial. is the hallowed

108

tmosphere which permeates the building, standing so close by Mt.
Vernon and the tomb of our beloved brother.
Recognizing that not every one can visit the Memorial. sets of colored
slides, 50 in number, with an appropriate script, are available on request
to brother Marvin E. Fowler, secretary-treasurer, of the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, Alexandria.
Virginia, Zone 22301. There is no charge for the use of the slides only the requirement that they be returned promptly after use so that
others may have the pleasure of viewing them. For Lodges looking
for an excellent program when wives, children and friends are present,
I can recommend most highly an evening devoted to the story of the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial.
Being on the board of directors of the Memorial Association, I find
myself. when on the Eastern Seaboard, searching out places. paintings.
sculptures. etc .. related to brother Washington. Last year, I visited the
National Cathedral on Mt. Alban in Washington, D . C.. particularly
wanting to see the statue of George Washington presented to the
Cathedral by the Supreme Council of the Southern Jurisdiction, Scottish
Rite. The Cathedral has a number of Memorial Bays and in the Washington Bay with walls, ceiling, mouldings and carvings patterned after
his beloved Mt. Vernon, stands this beautiful statue. 7 feet 6 inches
tall. carved of pure white Vermont marble-a statue intended to show,
not the soldier, not the President. but the man Washington, coming into
the church - Christ Church at Alexandria- pausing a moment before
going down the aisle to his pew. On the center front panel of the eightsided base of th~ statue are these words: "First Citizen; Churchman:
President; Statesman; Farmer; Soldier; Patriot; Free Mason." And on
plaques on the walls are likenesses of the Holy Bible. Square and Compass with words, "F redricksburg Lodge No. 4, 1752 where brother
Washington was obligated." Then there is a direct impression on a
Plaque of brother Washington's Past Master Jewel which is on exhibition in our Memorial at Alexandria, and there are several other
plaques with Masonic Symbols. The formal dedication of the Washington statue in the National Cathedral will take place within a few
days - on the twenty-first of October and the Washington Bible will
be taken from the Memorial to the Cathedral for the dedication
ceremony.
I am sure you will agree that the Masonic Fraternity is benefited by
the Washington Bay in the National Cathedral. seen by thousands of
visitors each year. We would like, of course, to have all who are interested in the life and story of George Washington to visit our memorial
in nearby Alexandria, particularly Masons who should fully realize
their Masonic heritage and what a great memorial has been created in
the name of the fraternity.

110

PROCEED INGS OF THE

I dos~ this repo~t by paraphr asing, slightly, a re uest I fou d
program I~ Westmi nster Abbey in London , Englan~. and wh~h on a
Was
so appropr iate - and this is to the visitor to the memorial.
We ask y~u as you. walk around to remember that you are on
lowed ground. to act ~1th reverence, to speak quietly and do not fo~al­
to look up very often . ifbyou wish to see the gI ory o f th'is memorialget
to
h
th
e one w ~se name 1t ears and whose life shines as a b eacon to a])
Masons wh1thersoever dispersed.
Respect fully submitted,
Guy B. MrzE, Director
d
T
1 9·30
At 4:30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off unt'l
a .m. ues ay.
•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

111

IN GRAN D LODGE
MORNING SESSIO N, TUESDA Y. O CTOBER 12, 1965

Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 a.m., the Grand Master presidin g.
This session was raised by Worshi pful William J. Caven, Master of
Chico Lodge No. 111. The invocat ion was delivere d by the Grand
Chaplain. The minutes of the morning and afterno on sessions of Monday, October 11 , were read and approve d.

REPO RT OF COMM ITTEE ON BY-LA WS
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:
In continu ation of the program outlined in our report to the 1964
Annual Communication, we have complet ed a tabulati on of the inforsnation available in the files of the Grand Secreta ry's office with respect
to each of the Lodges in the Jurisdiction. As the files involved were set
as to
up in 1916. we find many instance s where the comple te informa tion
e.
availabl
not
is
the filling in of the optiona l items of the Uniform Code
n
questio
in
Lodge
the
that
reflects
Jn general. this absence of informa tion
or
section,
specific
the
of
ent
amendm
an
l
has not submitt ed for approva
the adoptio n of the entire Uniform Code, during a period of forty-ni ne
years. The section most involved in this lack of adjustm ent is the one
relating to the amount availab le for emerge ncy charity. It is distress ing
this
to note the number of Lodges which have retained a limit in meeting
current
to
e
ortionat
disprop
badly
,
Charity
situation of vital M asonic
economic conditions.
We are urging" the Lodges to carefull y review each detail of the
by-laws under which they are operatin g with the intent of correcti ng
those provisions which have outlived their appropr iateness in the light
of changin g conditi ons-fin ancial and otherwi se. We are suggest ing
that if revisions are a ppropriate, the Lodge adopt and submit for
approval the complete Uniform Code filled in to cover their current
determinations. In this way they will provide a compac t a nd up-to-d ate
record for referenc e by themselves as well as for the files in the central
office.
The splendid respons e of the Lodges is indicate d by the quantit y and
variety of the items which have been s ubmitted for approva l as tabulate d
in Exhibit B of the Grand Secreta ry's Report:
Increasing Fees................. ......... 8
Revising Fees for each Degree 1
Decreasing Fees.................. ...... 1
Pixing Affiliation Fee................ 4
Decreasing Affiliation Fee........ 1
Rescinding Affiliation Fee....... . 6
Increasing Dues ........................ 71

Changi ng Date of
Stated Meeting ...................... 12
Changi ng Time of
Stated Meeting ...................... 8
Provision for Legal Holiday s.... 2
Charity Provision...................... 6
Uniform Code .......................... 62

112

113

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

As each item is submitted for approval it is carefully reviewed by
the staff of the Grand Secretary's office and by the Chairman of this
Committee. These reviews make possible a prompt correction with
respect to any provisions which reflect misunderstanding of, or lack of
compliance with, the regulations.
Your Committee has reviewed all the items listed by the Grand Secretary in Exhibit B of his advance report, together with additional
amendments processed prior to October I st, but too late for being included in that report. We find that each of the Amendments and
Resolutions reviewed is in accordance with the requirements of the
regulations, either as originally submitted or by subsequent appropriate
correction, and we therefore move that they be officially approved by
the adoption of this report.

Frank S. Land Lodge No. 819 in the City of Los Angeles,
County of Los Angeles.
Mar Vista Lodge No. 820 in the City of Newport Beach,
County of Orange.
Referring now to Gateway Lodge U .D. at Seaside. in the County
of Monterey. the Petiti?n for Charter was defect.ive. in .reciting the
ng date of dispensat10n and the wrong date of mst1tution and was
~r~ed only by the Secretary who was not a delegate. This was called
sagthe attention of the Master and Wardens at the Committee hearing,
to d a substitute Petition with correct recitations signed by the Master
=~d Wardens was prepared and handed to the Committee. Whether
the substitute Petition could be lawfully acted up~n favorably we have
occasion to consider because we are recommendmg tha t the Lodge be
0
~ontinued under dispensation for the ensuing Masonic Year.
The right to a charter is governed by Article IX of our Constitution,
which is Sec. 62 C.M .C .. and by Sec. 311 found in the Ordinances.
Article IX provides that "no charter shall be granted to any Lodge
until it shall have worked a time under dispensation, and shall have
exhibited to the Grand Lodge satisfactory evidence of its Masonic
capability...."
Sec. 311 requires that for a charter to be issued it is necessary that "an
examination of its work and proceedings shall prove satisfactory. . . . "
Among other sources of information the Committee must have
recourse to (a) the records kept by the Lodge. and ( b) discussions
with the delegates to Grand Lodge and other members of the Lodge
who attend.
•
The minute book contains no record of the Lodge ever having been
instituted and no record of adoption of any by-laws. By reference to
the Report of the Grand Secretary at the present Communication we
learn that Gateway Lodge U.D. was instituted December 29. 1964 by
the Grand Master. The Lodge's minute book records a Sta ted Meeting
on January 4, 1965 a t which bills were ordered paid but there is no
reference to the appointment of a n auditing committee. (According to
the minute book, the auditing committee was appointed at the March
meeting.)
The minutes for January 4 also record that petitions were received
from three individuals named but there is no reference to the appointment of investigating committees. At the next Stated M eeting, February
I, 1965 these men were elected to receive the degrees, but there is no
reference in the minutes to any report of any kind from investigating
committees.
No itemized financial statement for the month of June 1964, is in
the minutes nor was one prepared. and consequently none was submitted to the Inspector. all as required by Sec. 493 (2nd) C.M.C .
In the minutes of the "regular" (Stated) meeting on July 12, 1965

Respectfully submitted,
HENRY D. OLIPHANT
ALDEN
FULKERSON
VIRL BENNEHOPF
R. WAYNE FILLPOT
CHARLES H. GRACE
GORDON H . ARM STRONG
EMILE
ROGGY

J.

w.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the 1964 Communication of Grand Lodge. the dispensation of
Frank S. Land Lodge U.D. was continued for the succeeding year. Mar
Vista Lodge U .D . was instituted before the 1964 Communication but
after October 1, 1964, hence the dispensation continued in effect without action by Grand Lodge. Since the 1964 Communication one more
Lodge, Gateway Lodge U .D .. has been instituted.
The three Lodges under dispensation have petitioned for charters.
They have submitted their records for examination and their delegates
and inspectors have appeared before the Committee. While there have
been errors and omissions in the records of all these Lodges. those
occurring in the records of Frank S . Land Lodge and Mar Vista Lodge
are of a minor nature. and the Committee has received assurances from
the respective delegates that such errors and omissions would be
corrected.
The two Lodges last referred to have demonstrated to the Committee a Masonic maturity, work and proceedings that are satisfactory.
and these Lodges otherwise are fully qualified under Section 311
C.M.C. The Committee on Charters, therefore. unanimously recommends that charters be granted and numbers assigned to these two
Lodges as follows:

lH

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

we find an entry which reads, "The Secretary read the list of audited
bills and there was a motion made and seconded that the audited bills
be paid. The motion carried." The bills are not itemized. the total is not
recorded, and whether they were proper Lodge expenditures does not
appear.
The foregoing is a sampling reflecting the general unsatisfactory
administration of the affairs of the Lodge.
While the Secreta ry has the initial responsibility for these records,
the Master has a duty to see that the requirements are met. Yet in each
of the instances mentioned above regarding the minutes. the Master's
signature appears, with the implication that he has endorsed them as
approved.
These and other discrepancies were discussed with the Master,
Wardens, and Secretary of the Lodge. From the explanations given,
or lack of them , this Committee can only conclude that proper administrative attention to the affairs of the Lodge suffered in the respects
noted.
The Master, Wardens. and Senior Deacon, are Past Masters, thus
experience is not lacking. No doubt extenuating circumstances are
present, possibly involving personal problems and relationships. We
are satisfied that these can be solved, and that if the Lodge is given
another year, it will solve them by the exercise of proper Masonic
relationships; adjustments. if necessary; a closer supervision by the
Inspector and regard for his instructions and advice. It has been our
experience that under circumstances such as prevail here another year
under dispensation invariably results in strengthening the Lodge.
Moreover, we find a compulsion in the Constitution and Ordinances,
cited above, to report that Gateway Lodge U .D. has not exhibited to
the Grand Lodge evidence of its Masonic capability. and that an examination of its work and proceedings has not proved satisfactory.
These, Brethren. are the factors that control.
We do not overlook ample evidence of worthwhile Mas onic activity
by Gateway Lodge. The Lodge is to be commended for its charitable
pursuits and work with the public schools, participation in Constitution
Month Observance, and its financial s tability. Those, and ot her attributes are what justify the continuance of the Lodge. But our commendations of these things, and any sentiment or personal sympathy
for the officers and brethren involved or our admiration for their ambitions and zeal cannot substitute for the basic requirements under our
Masonic Law.
The Committee, therefore, unanimously recommends that the dispensation of Gateway Lodge U.D. be continued for the ensuing
Masonic Year.
It should be noted that the Grand Master has granted dispensations
as follows: On October 5, 1965 for the formation of Maccabee Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

115

U.D. in the City of Rosemead, County of Los Angeles. and on October
8. 1965 for the formation of Boron Lodge U.D. in the town of Boron,
County of Kern. Inasmuch as these dispensataions were granted after
October 1. 1965, no action by Grand Lodge is necessary to continue
these dispensations in effect. This portion of our report is for record
purposes only.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
PHILLIP B. STONE
ROBERT A. SMITH
WAYNE E. BURK
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
ROBERT 0. WEST
CHARLES WARREN
FRANK B. PEEBLES
MARTIN ORTLIEB
EDGAR R. KENT
JOHN L. SHAW

By separate actions the portions of the report granting charters
and continuing a dispensation were adopted.
There has been referred to the Committee on Charters the following :
1. That portion of the Report of the Grand Secretary read at this
Communication relative to the change of meeting place of a number of
Lodges which are listed; and
2. That portion of the Report dealing with Consolidations of
Lodges.
The Committee on Charters recommends that the Grand Secretary
be authorized to properly endorse the charters of the several Lodges in
accordance with the details set forth in the Grand Secretary's Report.
Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC fflSTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
On October 4, 1960, Past Grand Master Leon 0. Whitsell. who
served so ably and faithfully as chairman of this Committee, caused a
letter to be sent to the Master and Brethren of each constituent Lodge
o~ the Grand Lodge of California requesting information to complete the
history of Freemasonry in California for the ten year period from 1950
thr?ugh 1960. He wrote that the history is to include the following events
which have taken place in your Lodge within the ten year period above
stated:
1. Observance of a Centennial and other Anniversaries, including
the entire programs thereof.
2. Lodge dedication.
3. Corner<Stone laying.
4. Formation of a Lodge made up of members from your old Lodge.
5. New Temple.
6. Mortgage burning.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7. Unusual and distinctive events and unusual happenings in the
history of your Lodge and its members.
It was sugges ted also that each Lodge appoint a "Lodge Historian"
to assist in this task by obtaining and forwarding to the Committee the
pertinent material.
Approximately a year later Grand Secretary Edward H. Siems
wrote to the Masters of each Lodge informing them that the responses to
Brother Whitsell's request were as follows:

past. Cicero recognized the necessity of studying history when he said:
"Not to know what has been transacted in former times is to be always
a child. If no use is made of the labors of past ages, the world must
remain always in the infancy of knowledge."
Finally. to reinforce the view of the Committee that the achievement
of the assigned task is significant. reference is made to the learned essay
entitled "History" by the famed American poet and essayist Ralph
Waldo Emerson:
"Of the works of mind history is the record.
"The world exists for the education of each man. There is no
age or state of society or mode of action in history. to which there
is not somewhat corresponding in his life. Every thing tends in a
wonderful manner to abbreviate itself and yield its own virtue to him.
He should see that he can live all history in his own person .. , ,
"By surrounding ourselves with the original circumstances , we
invent anew the orders and the ornaments (of the past) . . . .
" Yet every history should be written in a wisdom which divined
the range of our a ffinities and look at facts as symbols . ...
"Broader and deeper we must write our annals,-from an ethical
reformation, from an influx of the ever new. ever sanative conscience ,
-we would trulier express our central and wide-related nature ... ,"
The recording of history is a never ending mission. The Committee
on Masonic History now is faced with the preparation of the history of
the constituent Lodges of the Grand Lodge of California for the years
1950 through 1965. It is essential to the fulfillment of the mission that
each Lodge collaborate. It is only with their participation that the undertaking may be brought to a successful conclusion and, incidentally, insure a proper and accurate record of each Lodge.
A suggested letter, which is incorporated as a part of this report,
has been prepared for transmittal to the Master of each Lodge and it is
hoped that each of the Masters will respond promptly.

116

Satisfactory reply received .............................. 96 Lodges
Reply received but not complete ...................... 114 Lodges
No reply received ................................. ........... 476 Lodges
Brother Siems requested fuller coopera tion of the Lodges in order to
accomplish the purpose of the Committee. About fifty additional Lodges
responded, still leaving the Committee without the information required
to complete the job.
During the past year all of the material received has been assembled
and examined. However, we must recognize that the four volume
treatise, "One Hundred Years of Freemasonry in California" written
under the direction and supervision of Brother Whitsell, covering the
century 1850 to 1950 may not be supplemented effectively unless ALL
of our Lodges provide informa tion of their significant events so that the
review of each Lodge contained in the treatise may be augmented.
Five years have elapsed since Brother Whitsell's letter of October 1,
J 960. and there now is fifteen years of history of the Lodges unrecorded
in the annals of the Grand Lodge. Thus, if the history of one hundred
years is to be brought up to date it will be necessary to accumulate information of consequential occurrences for the past fifteen years. This
imposes upon the Lodges an obligation and upon the Committee considerable labor in order to complete the assignment.
The value of devoting so much time and effort in recording episodes
of the past may not seem of importance to some of the brethren. They
may be convinced. however, by the realization that enlightenment in the
future is provided by an understanding of the past. The roots of Freemasonry are growing deeper and deeper and its history may symbolize
the firm foundation of our Craft and the salutary influence upon its
members.
History is the story, or biography. if you prefer. of happenings of
mankind, or a particular segment thereof. If intelligently conceived it
may be an instrument of progress. It may suggest dynamic capacities yet
unexplored and may give new direction to self criticism and creative
energy which may aid in generating a richer plan, design or ideal.
Human evolution has proven that soundness of the philosophic and
historic truth that in order to understand the present we must study the

117

For the future. it seems advantageous to compile information of
significant events of the Lodges annually. This will make it less difficult
for each Lodge and the History Committee to keep current the record
of history. Accordingly. it is recommended that the retiring Master or
Historian of each Lodge be required to submit to the Grand Lodge at
the end of each calendar year a report containing the happenings of the
particular Lodge involved for inclusion in periodic supplements of the
history of the Grand Lodge of California.
The Committee respectfully requests that the su m of $500 be appropriated for use during the coming Masonic Year to cover the expense of
meetings, secretarial aid and materials, and incidentals, to enable the
effectuation of its work.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

118

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The members of the Committee are most grateful to the Grand
Master for the privilege a nd pleasure of serving on this Committee.

s.

Respectfully submitted,

GERALD
L EVI N
PAUL COWGILL
MICHAEL L. MANAHAN

KENNETH H. DOWNS
WALTER E. STODDARD
WILLIAM
GLIDDEN

w.

Referred to Committee on F inance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the M ost W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Lodge Financing respectfully submits, for your
approval and adoption, this ·report indicating its activities and transactions rela ting to the financial matters of Lodges and T emple Associations operating temple properties within the jurisdiction. A review of the
activities reveals continuing and definite progress in the construction,
maintena nce and financial operation of these properties. During the year,
282 T emple Associations and Lodges have ·submitted to the Committee
for information, s tudy and review a statement of financial status as required by Section 200 of the Masonic Code. These statements disclos.e
that each year more interes t is being taken in proper financial and business operations of Masonic properties and the preparation of proper,
concise, accurate financial reports thereof.
Ever looking to the future, greater effort is being made to establish
cash and depreciation reserves to provide for the replacement, repairs
and maintenance o f the temples which will be required in the future.
In the past year the Committee acted upon 94 applications relating to
the purchase of property, construction, maintenance, and other matters
affecting the financial operation and conduct of their Lod ge facilities:
The Committee approved 24 applications for the transfer of funds
from Lodges to Temple Associations for use in various matters regarding temple construction and maintenance; 15 requests for consent
to purchase property for future temple sites; eight requests to start
construction on new Masonic temples; I 9 requests for capital improvements; 19 requests to borrow funds; five requests to form
non-profit temple corporations; three requests to enter into satisfactory lease agreements; three requests to purchase stock in temple
associations and other various items; these. with other miscellaneous
requests, requiring necessary action of the Committee in more than
I 20 proceedings. During the year numerous visitations were made
to various Lodges throughout the jurisdiction to advise and counsel
with the brethren concerning problems affecting Lodge and temple
association financial affairs. These visits, made upon the invitation
of the brethren, were most satisfactory and in all instances resolved
the problems confronted to the satisfaction of all concerned.

119

The Committee again wishes to call to your attention the importance
of keeping the Masonic temples in proper order and repair. Good housekeeping, both within and withou t the temple, does much to maintain
the impressive, highly regarded and respected ima ge that the Fraternity
enjoys within the communities and the State. So much can be done with
some thought and with very little effort and financing.
The Committee further recommends that Lodges and Temple Associations constantly review their insurance programs in order to be
assured that they are properly covered in all requirements necessary
to protect their property. It is further recommended that occasional
examination be made as to their status relating to tax requirements of
local. state and federal agencies. The requirements as to tax exemption
should be strictly adhered to in order that the individual Lodges, Temple
Associations and the Fraternity conform to all existing laws relating
to tax matters.
Yearly activities of the Committee are contained in detail on the
following pages of this report and will be included in the published
proceedings.
OAKLAND MASONIC T EMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approval granted previous actions taken relative to the proposed
construction of the new Oakland Masonic Temple, also approval to
proceed with program as outlined in letter from Brother Laurence E.
Dayton.
OAKLAND MASONIC T EMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approval granted request to contract agreement executed October
22, 1964, between the Temple A·ssociation and Treichel and Gibbs,
Architects, for the purpose of proceeding with the plans for the proposed
new Masonic T emple in Oakland.

Y o uNT LonGE No. 12
Consent granted request to borrow $25,000 from the Bank of America for the following purposes:
Install air conditioning system .................................. $9,496
Carpeting Lodge room .................................. ( appr.) 5,000
Paying balance of out,s tanding note.......................... 9,875
T RINITY LoDGE No. 27
Consent granted to start construction of new T emple in Weaverville.
GoLDEN GATE L ODGE No . 30
SmsuN LoDGE No. 55
Application approved requesting expenditure of $3.536 for the purpose of painting the Masonic Temple building.
FAIRFIELD-S UISUN MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATIO N

Consent granted application as follows:
1. Purchase property for Temple building for $20,000, plus costs.

120

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

2. Expend $8.000 for bridge construc tion to provide access to
Temple site.
SmsuN LODGE No. 55
FAIRFIEL D-SmsuN MASONIC TEMPLE AssocIATION

Applicat ion a pproved to employ architect ural firm in. the estimate d
sum of $5.760 in connecti on with the proposed construc tion of the new
Masonic Temple in Fai rfield.
SANTA Ro sA LoDGE No. 57
Consent granted request to transfer $6,000 from Lodge funds to the
Temple Associat ion in order to complete the remodeli ng. painting a nd
other required work on the Masonic Temple.
ARCATA LoDGE No. 106

Consent granted to form Masonic Temple Associat ion and to
trans fer $500 from Lodge funds to the Associat ion when formed .
CHico LODGE No. 111
LELAND STANFOR D LoDGE No. 784

Applicat ion approved dated May 30, 1965 as follows:
1. Purchase new Masonic Temple site in Chico.
2. Borrow $16,000 to be a pplied to purchase .
3. Transfer $37.500 from Chico Lodge general fund to the ChicoLeland Stanford Masonic Temple Associat ion.
ALAMED A LooGE No. 167
Applicat ion approved requestin g consent as follows :
1. Purchase new Temple site in the sum of $80,000, plus ~o~ts.
2. Transfer $7,100 from Lodge funds to the Temple Assoc1.a~1on .
3. Borrow not to exceed $55,000 under terms and cond1t1ons presented at Committ ee meeting in San Francisc o M ay 21, 1965.
Russ1AN R1vER LoDGE No. 181
Consent granted to borrow $4.500 from Wells Fargo Bank to complete the remodeli ng program of the Masonic Temple.
CLEAR LAKE LoDGE No. 183
Consent granted applicati on to borrow $35,000. for the purpose of
proceedi ng with the construc tion of the new Masonic Temple for Clear
Lake Lodge.
Mou NTAIN Vrnw LODGE No. 194
Consent granted to request for the expendit ure of n?t to exce~d
$7,200 for the necessar y construct ion work on the Masontc Temple m
Mountai n View.
SAN SIMEON LoDGE No. 196
Consent granted request to borrow $3.000 from the Bank of America

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

121

for the purpose of building the refreshmen t addition to the Masonic
Temple.
H A RTLEY LoDGE No. 199
Consent granted requ est to form Temple Associat ion and to transfer
$500 from Lodge fu nds to the Associat ion in exchang e for regular
members hip therein.
DowNEY LoDGE No. 220
Consent granted request to enter into loans and construc tion contracts for the purpose of construc ting the new Masonic Temple in
Downey ; the consent also included the transfer of funds and other
matters relating to the cons truction program.
BAKERSFI ELD MASONIC TEM PLE A ssocIATIO N
BAKERSF IELD LODGE No . 224
L IBERTAS LoDGE N o. 466
Consent granted applicati on to purchase property adjacent to the
Masonic Temple fo r $22.500; also. consent to borrow $7,500 from each
Lodge at 4 % interest for the purpose of assisting in said purchase.
SAN MATEO Looc;E N o. 226
Applicat ion approved to expend $7.500 for construc tion and alteration work on the Masonic Temple.
POMONA LoDGE No. 246
Consent granted applicati on to borrow $25,000 for the purchase of
property for a new T emple site for Pomona Lodge.
READING LoDGE No. 254
Applicat ion approved requestin g consent to trans fer $4 ,000 from
Lodge fu nds to the Temple Associat ion.
OAKDALE LoDGE No. 275
Consent granted to transfer the sum of $12.500 from Lodge general
funds to the Temple Association in order to proceed with the completi on
of the new Masonic Temple in Oakdale .
E AST GATE LooGE No. 290
Consent granted to expend approxim ately $18, 125 to install air conditioning unit in Temple building .
ORANGE GROVE LooGE No. 293
Consent granted applicati on to expend approxim ately $12,700 to
instaUan air condition ing and heating unit and other appurten ant work
in the Masonic Temple.
REDLANDS L ODGE No. 300
Consent granted request to purchase property for new Masonic
Temple site in Redland s; also. consent granted the Temple Association
to borrow $11.500 from the Lodge for the purpose of completi ng the
purchase .

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ASHLAR LoDGE No. 306

Class A stock in t~e Temple Association; said purchase not to exceed
$400 during the penod ending November 30, 1965.

Consent granted to form Ashlar Masonic Temple Association and
to transfer the assets derived from the dissolution of the Colton-Rialto
Masonic Temple Association to the new Association when formed.
MoNROVIA LoDGE No. 308

Approval granted application to borrow not to exceed $60,000 for the
purpose of completing the new Masonic Temple in Monrovia.
MONROVIA LoDGE No. 308

Consent granted to transfer $2.500 from Lodge funds for the purpose of completing the new Masonic Temple in Monrovia; said loan to
be on basis of 15-year maturity with payments of $500 per month
at 6% interest.
DELANO LoDGE No. 309

Consent granted request to borrow $12,000 for the purpose of remodeling the lower floor of the Temple building to provide for new
tenants in the Masonic Temple.
Los BANOS LoDGE No. 312

Consent granted application as follows:
1. To borrow $100,000 from the Bank of America for the purpose
of proceeding with the reconstruction program necessary due to
the fire that destroyed the present Temple property.
HOLLENBECK LoDGE No. 319

Application approved to make necessary repairs on the Masonic
Temple in the estimated sum of $3,338 in order to comply with city
building ordinance.
ALisAL LoDGE No. 321

Consent granted to transfer $6,000 from Lodge funds to Temple
Association; also, to purchase property for new Temple site for $15,000,
plus cosM.
AusAL LODGE No. 321

Consent granted to purchase property for Masonic purposes as
outlined in application dated April 30, 1965.

123

SEQUOIA LODGE No. 349

Consent granted request to the extension of previous actions relative
to the purchase of outstanding individually owned stock in the Temple
Association.
GoLDEN STATE LoDGE No. 358

Consent granted the request to transfer $1. 700 from Lodge funds to
the Temple Association in order to pay the first installment of taxes
due on the Temple property.
GOLDEN STATE LoDGE No. 358

Consent granted request to borrow $2,000 under terms and conditions set forth in the application dated May 13, 1965.
TuRLOCK LODGE No . 395

Application approved requesting consent to expend approximately
$8,000 for making repairs on Temple building.
BURLINGAME LoDGE No . 400
Consent granted request to transfer $6,000 from Lodge funds to the
Hall Association for the purpose of proceeding with the modernization
program on the Masonic Temple.
BRAWLEY LoDGE No. 402
Consent granted application to form Temple Association and to the
transfer of $300 from Lodge funds to the Association when formed.
CARPI NTERIA LoDGE No. 444
Consent granted to the application to purchase property for a new
Temple site; said purchase to be on the conditions and terms set forth in
the application.
THOUSAND OAKS LoDGE No. 478

Application approved requesting permission to purchase outstanding
individually owned stock in the Temple A s-sociation in the total amount
of $1,000 during the yea r 1965.

WHITTIER LoDGE No. 323

SEASIDE L ODGE No. 504

Consent granted request to borrow not to exceed $128,000 to complete construction of new Masonic Temple for Whittier Lodge; said
loan to be "open end" and is to cover existing loan of $25,000.

Consent granted application to transfer $14,100 in order to pay off
outstanding indebtedness on property in preparation of starting construction of new Temple.

CovINA LoDGE No. 334

BEVERLY HILLS LoDGE No. 528

Consent granted application to transfer $6.500 from Lodge funds to
the Temple Association in order to rehabiliate the dining room area
and other appurtenant work.

Consent granted to transfer $15 ,000 from Lodge funds to the Building Association in order to provide necessary new furnishings, carpeting, painting, et cetera, for Beverly H ills Lodge.

FRUITVALE LoDGE No. 336

Consent granted request to purchase outstanding individually owned

NoRTH HoLL Ywoon LoDGE No . 542

Consent granted request to install elevator in the Temple at ap-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THI!.

Meriam, and his officers. We are equally grateful and appreciative to
the Grand Secretary and his most efficient and accommodating staff for
their assis tance and cooperation. With such assistance, cooperation and
encouragement from everyone concerned. the privilege of serving Grand
Lodge continues to be most pleasurable and rewarding.
Respectfully submitted,
MARK A. GREEN
GEORGE W. STURM
BECKER
ARTHUR
BENJAMIN SUSMAN
MELVIN H. MERRITT

s.

IVAN CRASE
RICHARD L. RIEM ER
SIDNEY F. SEA
BARRETT
GEORGE

c.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
For the forty-sixth annual Public Schools Week observance our
Grand Master adopted a truly timely theme. HELP BUILD A BETTER AMERICA ... SUPPORT OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. And
in his Proclamation he reminded us of our Masonic responsibility, " ...
to be in the front ranks of an intelligent citizenship dedicated to sound
and sturdy support of our public schools." Our Grand Master also
quoted our late, beloved Past Grand Master, Charles Albert Adams,
who founded Public Schools week in 1920 and set forth our purpose in
these words: "As Masons we unqualifiedly subscribe to the belief that
an educated and enlightened citizenship is the first great care of the
progressive State and that upon our Public Schools depends the hope
for the perpetuity of a free and untrammeled democracy." Having thus
given the necessary instruction, the Grand Master tendered Public
Schools Week 1965 into the custody and care of the Craft.
How well we have individually discharged our duty, each Master
Mason must answer for himself. The purpose of this report is to summarize and to present a general assessment of this year's program, as
reflected by all activities witnessed within this Grand Jurisdiction. In
so doing, your Committee finds it impossible to properly pay tribute to
each and all of the thousands of our brethren who have rendered,
individually and collectively, outstanding service during this past year.
Any listing of acknowledgements, no matter how extensive, would, at
best, be incomplete and its only justification is that it serve to illustrate
the entire scope of our program and likewise allow your Committee
an opportunity to share with you the fraternity's portfolio on public
schools. This portfolio reflects a long-term investment of time, money
and much energy. It has, in turn, paid and continues to pay the highest

127

passible dividend - the prosperity and well-being of the free public
schools of America.
Our Committee records confirm that special recognition together
with sincere appreciation has been earned by and must be extended
by this Grand Lodge to each of the following:
The Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam, Grand Master, who has
given in great abundance of his time, his enthusiasm, and his great
knowledge to counsel. guide, and foster the work of this Committee. As
our Grand Master is a distinguished member of the Board of Trustees
of the California State Colleges. we have been doubly privileged this
year to have shared our work with one so well informed, so personally
concerned, and so totally dedicated to the task at hand. As an example
of this interest and devotion. we would recall our Grand Master's appearance of April 23, 1965, on KCOP's television program, "The
Intelligent Parent." The bright light of Masonry was never displayed
to better advantage, than in the capable hands of our most eloquent
Grand Master.
On this same occasion and on behalf of this Grand Lodge. the
Grand Master presented a walnut scroll to the show's producer-hostess
in appreciation of the area-wide coverage annuaHy given by this station to Public Schools Week. This is but one example of our Grand
Master's devotion to duty. We regret that time does not permit review
of the complete register of his activities, but we can and we do take
this opportunity to join with all the citizens of C alifornia in commendation of Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam, who through leadership
and by example has given each of us a clearer understanding of both
... " the purpose and function of all of our schools."
To the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and to the
Grand Lodge staff, who performed above and beyond the call of duty,
my bretheren, in processing and shipping well over two tons of posters
and stickers within one day of receipt. Each of these dedicated workers
continues to earn. merit and deserve the gratitude of this Committee and
of the entire Grand Lodge.
To the former Committee Chairman, Right Worshipful John F.
Porter, for his sustained interest and continuing activity. Your Chairman has been privileged to observe and to benefit from the Junior Grand
Warden's dedicated labor on behalf of one of the most important programs of Freemasonry in California and Hawaii.
To the California Teachers Association, for their fine brochure and
ac"<:ompanying publicity releases, all of which were based upon the
Grand Master's theme. We would note that this cooperating association
has consistently given full and proper recognition to Masonry's role in
Public Schools Week.
To the faculty and student body of Los Angeles Trade-Technical

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

College, who each year design and produce our posters and stickers
and this year accepted the added responsibility for the milk carton art
work. How fortunate we are to have both facilities and craftsmen of
such excellent quality within our school system. This internationallyknown school well deserves its reputation and our especial gratitude.
To the local School Districts, Boards and Administrators for their
support and encouragement. This year your Chairman requested the
active help of the 58 County Superintendents of Schools in developing
a state-wide program of milk carton imprinting. A very good beginning
was made with nearly half of these busy administrators taking time to
personally respond and to implement the suggestion. This preliminary
success gives us confidence that future efforts can produce a million or
more half-gallon milk ·c artons to carry the message of Public Schools
Week into every family-home within the length and breadth of our
jurisdiction.
To the related bodies and organizations, the Scottish Rite, York Rite,
Shrine, Order of Eastern Star. Job's Daughters and Order of Rainbow,
for their cooperative spirit. Particular mention should be made of the
Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles for preparation and release of two
write-ups in a national newspaper. which devoted an entire issue to Public Schools Week. And to the Order of DeMolay for offering to help and
then accepting and distributing 25.000 car-window stickers and for
countless other services performed for individual Lodges.
To the Inspectors, Masters, Wardens. Secretaries and local Lodge
Public Schools Chairmen and their Committees. For it is here. upon the
level of the local Lodge, that the credit and success must finally come
to rest. It would be a monumental task to mention all within this group
who are entitled to recognition and therefore your Committee asks that
you accept the following as both reflective and representative of the
individual efforts-we would acknowledge and give recognition to:
those who prepared and presented radio and TV announcements
and press copy, the latter resulted in over 500 articles, carried in
newspapers with a total circulation of over 7 million subscribers
(several papers published a special edition or a separate section};
those who imprinted shopping bags and distributed them in major
markets within their communities-what a practical and effective
way to announce Public Schools Week schedules;
those who arranged for Proclamations by their Mayor or other
public officials;
those who participated in our poster project by distributing over
19,000 posters and 100,000 stickers to attract public interest and
gain public support;
those who honored both teachers and students through luncheons,

129

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dinners, theater parties, picnics, cook-outs. song festivals, and essay
contests;
those who presented attendance trophies to encourage every school
within their area to attain the highest possible attendance records;
those who arranged for and then decorated window space along
Main Street to display student work and to further call attention to
Public Schools Week;
those who planned and executed new, different and untried programs
which aroused new interest and resu lted in a better and a bigger
Public Schools Week in their communities;
and finally, to those who would share their success and experience
by telling their story and by making their report a part of the exhibit
which is now on display at this Annual Communication.
To each and to all of the above we say Thank you.. The files of your
Committee attest to the untold labors of Masonry on behalf of our free
public schools and the annual increase in the number of invitations for
both School Dedications and Cornerstone Ceremonies offers indisputable evidence that we have indeed united in a ctive and intelligent support of our schools.
This constitutes the full and final report for 1965. To continue,
sustain and amplify this program, your Committee on Public Schools
requests that the sum of $1,500.00 be appropriated for its work during
the coming year.
Each member of· this Committee joins your retiring Chairman in an
expression of gratitude to each Master Mason who has taken the time
to personally participate. Whether the individual Mason's activity has
been large or small, the aggregate effort has produced results which
places us ever-closer to the attainment of our goal-to that day when
we can announce that we now possess an enlightened citizenship wmking in concert to ", .• Build a Better America .. ," through the continuous and sustained support of our free public schools.
Respectfully submitted,
WARREN J. BLOMSETH
GEORGE E. HIATT
CURTIS N. HEE N
EARL VAN VoRST
RoLLAND F. ATWOOD
HAL LET H. MEILICKE
RICHARD H. DUTWILER
JosEPH V. ANTISTA
WILLIAM G. Y ERG ER
RICHARD C. ROGERS
STANFORD FoNG
NORBERT P. TESTER
FRANKLIN
POTTER
CARL WINTER

c.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

130

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIALISM

and subsequently we were informed the name had been changed to

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Commercialism is pleased to report that during
the year just ended there have been no serious infractions of our laws,
rules or regulations. This reflects no change from recent years and is
a further indication that in most instances before embarking on any
venture. which might be considered as of a questionable nature, the
promoters are seeking clearance,
Quite naturally everything has not gone along smoothly and strictly
in accordance with the law. Our Craft being composed of human beings
is bound to have a member occasionally get out of line but when called
to our attention, and by whi,spering good counsel, correction usually can
be affected before anyone is hurt. This we believe to be far better for the
sake of peace and harmony within the Craft than to allow a real serious
situation to develop.
Your Committee does not embark on "Witch Hunts." Complaints
come to us through the Grand Lodge officers and occasionally from
individuals.
This year in only one instance has a Lodge been involved in a situation which could have been a serious one, but prompt action with the
assistance of our Grand Master enabled the matter to be brought to a
close without leaving any wounds.
We have had no problems with the concordant organizations the
past year.
In regard to the appendant or prerequisite organizations. we have
received the fullest cooperation of all.
During the past several years certain of the Shrine Temples have reestablished circus performances under permission of the Grand Masters
and in accordance with our regulations. As authorized ticket sales are
limited to their membership, to Master Masons or to members of prerequisite organizations, no sale to the general public; no advertising in
their programs, profits if any are for their general operating funds and
tickets sold so state thus removing any implication that the affair is a
charitable one. Other charitable Shrine activities such as sporting events
in the several areas of our jurisdiction have been carried out in accordance with our regulations with beneficial results to the hospitals.
Publications-Late last year attention was called to the incorporation
of "Masonic Publishers, Inc.,'' headquarters San Jose. In our investigation it was learned that the sponsors were not members of the Craft, also
that they had formed another organization titled "Catholic Publishers,
Inc." In discussions with their attorneys court decisions, also registration
of the name and symbols under the corporation code were pointed out

131

Associated Publishers , Inc.
In September last year a newly obligated Brother was solicited by
phone for an ad in the Trestle Board, a publication we had not heard
from in quite some time. Because of the phone caller's intimate approach
the Brother agreed to place an ad, thinking it was a Masonic publication,
and issued his check for $300.00 in payment w hich was picked up with
the copy and a receipt given. The same day the Inspector of the Lodge
learned of the transaction and advised the brother to s top payment of
the check but it was too late, the check had been cashed almost immediately. Unfortunately when this came to our attention we could not be
of any help in recovering the money.
We were in correspondence with the Grand Lodge of Illinois in
regard to an advertising list of books put out by the Charles T. Pawner
Co. of Chicago. This list offered many books on Masonic and prerequisite rituals and history, including one of the ineffable word. So far
as we could learn. the owner of the concern was not listed as a member
of the Craft in Illinois, further that approximately 95% of their business
was with Prince Hall affiliates.
Every once in a while a spate of circulars advertising "The Great
Message" is received by our members. The past year was one of these
occasions. The publisher is an expelled Mason.
Our attention was called to a book, Secret Societies and Sub uersive
Mouements. Throughout the book there is much said abou t Free
Masonry - in connection with subversive activities in Europe, much of
which is attributed to the Grand Orient of F rance . a clandestine a nd
non-recognized atheistic spin-off from French Masonry.
Another book. The Secret in Your Heart, written by a member of a
Lodge in this jurisdiction , has been the cause of concern by reason of
the solicitation circular sent to a number of Lodges and to Grand Lodge
Officers. The matter is still under investigation.
MISUSE OP MASONIC EMBLEM

We have had called to our attention a number of instances of business cards carrying the Square and Compass. Investigation developed
that three of the persons involved were members of a non-recog nized
group. one of whom had left the state; the other two agreed to coopera te
and discontinue the use of the emblem - a fourth was a member of a
regular Lodge in Tiajuana, Mexico. We were told that Mexican Lodges
encourage such use, believing that it helps the cause. The member who
has a business in San Diego was using the emblem on book matches and
business cards and was unaware of our law and offered to destroy the
match books and cards, but was told to confine the distribution to south
of the border. The fifth person was a member of a Lodge in this Grand
Jurisdiction who claimed he did not know that he could not use the

132

133

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

emblem. The appropriate section of our law was pointed out to him, after
which he stated he would discontinue its use.
A privately owned cemetery, which at our request several years ago
had removed a square and compass from its sloping lawn where it could
be seen by those driving by, lost by death the Brother who had had the
emblem removed. Shortly after his passing the emblem reappeared. On
being contacted by a member of this committee, the responsible party
(an attorney and member of the Craft) strongly remonstrated, insisting
that it would remain. A pparently he sought advice for shortly thereafter
the emblem disappeared, but was replaced by a ··shrine" emblem, thus
observing the lang uage but not the spirit o f the law.
There have been a few other matters coming to our attention, nothing serious, but which were satisfactorily concluded within our law.
Continued vigilance is the keystone necessary to hold in place those
who through inadvertence, willfulness, or ignorance would violate our
law, rules, and regulations.
Our sincere thanks to our Grand Secretary and his staff, also to the
other Grand Officers and to those Inspectors who, when called on, gave
generously of their time and counsel - a ll were most helpful.
To the M ost W orshipful Theodore Meriam. our Grand Master, for
grateful thanks. It was an honor to have worked with and served under
him.
Respectfully submitted,

to the Lodges without charge. Many Lodges are making use
•yailable
f this service.

VINCENT P. McMuRoo
J ACK L. BLAINE
WILLARD A. BRAASCH
ALBERT R. BENNISON
HARVEY H ARKNESS

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its fifteenth year o f activity,
and herewith renders its report for the 12 months ending June 30
1965. Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical background and basic information, which should be helpful to those attending Grand Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent Man Rule in modified form was adopted by and for
Grand Lodge at the 1950 Communica tion. For the Constituent Lodges
a Prudent Man Rule was adopted in 1951.
The Investment Committee o f Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California was formed for the purpose o f administering the investable
funds of Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California, and the
M asonic Homes Endowment Fund.
The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constituent
Lodges, but Grand Lodge makes the services of its investment advisor

•

0

The following is Moody's report on Constituent Lodges for the year
ending June 30, 1965 :
124
Number of active Lodges........
Number of Lodges requesting
111
reviews ·-··--------·····------------...
Approximate portfolio value.... $8,250,000
Average market value of each
portfolio ..............................$ 66.500
162
Number of inactive Lodges ....
(inactive Lodges are those which have not responded to Moody's
periodic request for an up-to-date list for review)
For the year ending June 30, 1965 Reviews made and other written communications........147
Telephone discussions --··-··--···----------------···········--···--·····- 32
Office visits ................................................ .....................- ... 7
The Investment Committee hopes that the Lodges are making full
and continuing use of this valuable service.
The Investment Committee is composed of the Grand Treasurer, the
Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the Finance Committee,
the President of the Masonic Hornes Board of Trustees or a Trustee
of that Board designated by him, a nd the Chairman of the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board or a member of that Board designated by
him. The present members of the Investment Committee are:
Paul A. Pflueger, P .M ............................. Grand T reasurer
Jack F . Bowley, P .M ....................... Asst. Grand Treasurer
Frank Harwell. Jr., P.G.M ................... Chairman, Finance
Committee
E. V. Stewart. Jr., P. G.M ..... President, Board of Trustees
Masonic H omes
John M. G ordon, P.M .........Chairman, Endowment Board
The Grand Secretary, Edward H. Siems, P .G.M .• acts as Secretary
of the Committee.
We are pleased to welcome Jack F . Bowley. our new Assistant
Grand Treasurer, as a member of our Committee. He has already made
valuable ·s uggestions.
By Ordinance, under Section 246 (formerly 86) with respect to
investment of Grand Lodge funds, and Section 403 (formerly 152.l)
respecting investments by Constituent Lodges, the following provisions,
U briefed, prevailed as of June 30, 1965. (See Sections 246 and 403,
C.M.C.):
GROUP I. At least 20% of the funds available for investment must
be in:

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

134

A) Cash and/ or bank accounts.

B) Obligations of the United States.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions .

D) Such other securities as are legal investments for savings
banks in California or Hawaii (as amended 1959).

GROUP II. Up to 20% may be invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an exchange registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall
not include railroad equipment trust issues ( 1955).
B) Preferred stocks. which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that full listing and registration of preferred stock shall
not be required whenever the common stock of the corporation issuing such preferred stock is fully listed and registered
on such an exchange. provided that such preferred stock is
traded on such an excha nge ( 1956).
GROUP Ill. Up to 60 % may be invested in : (As amended 1959)
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a Nationa l Securities Exchange. except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
C) Shares and / or certificates of insured Federal or State Savings and Loan Associations ( 1957 and 1959). The amount
invested in any one Association shall not exceed the amount
covered by insurance.
With respect to the authority to invest in Groups II and Ill. the
Ordinance reads as follows: "No such investments, however, shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market value
of the securities ref erred to in this section exceeding twenty per cent
or sixty per cent (as the case may be) of the total market value of all
the cash, bank accounts and securities held.'' - the controlling point
being that there cannot be more than 20% or 60 o/o invested in Groups
II and Ill. at the time of purchase. ( 100% may of course be invested in
Group I).
At the 1959 Communication certain amendments were passed with
respect to the percentages which could be invested in Groups I and III.
Group I was reduced to 20% and Group III was increased to 60% . In
this connection, it is very important to call attention to the following ,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

135

which is contained in the Reports of the Committee on Juriprudence
and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
"Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully calls attention to
the fact that this proposed amendment is permissive only and is not
a directive. Great care should be exercised in making investments
under the authority granted by this proposed amendment."
"Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends
the adoption of Resolution D-7 but with this admonition to the Lodges :
"~) The autho~ity granted is permissive only and is not suggested
as an investment gmde under present economic conditions.
" B) That in making investments in Group III the Lodges be most
circumspect in taking advantage of this additional authority.
"C) And that they strictly comply with the provisions of the last
paragraph of Section 403 of our Ordinances, to consult with and heed
the advice of t~e professional investment advisors used by Grand Lodge,
and made available to the Constituent Lodges without charge to the
individual Lodge."
The above comments are included in the reports of the Committees
as they appear on page 282 of the 1959 Proceedings.
At the 1960 Communication Section 403 was amended, as follows :
"Th~ provisions of this section requiring securities to be fully listed
and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, shall not apply
to the Honolulu Stock Exchange. This exception is confined to Lodges
located in the State of Hawaii." (The Honolulu Stock Exchange is
not as yet a National Securities Exchange, as defined by the Securities
and Exchange Commission).
. We ~ould also like to call your attention to the fact that there is a
circular issued by Grnnd Lodge regarding the investment of funds by
Constituent Lodges, which is available at the Grand Secretary's office.
At this time the Committee desires to call to the attention of Grand
Lodge that Group II of the above investment regulations is very restrict~d and consequently minimizes our opportunity to make certain sound
mvestme~ts. The Investment Committee is therefore proposing certain
changes m Group 11, as set forth in Resolution No. 8 presented to this
Grand Lodge for its consideration. We unanimously seek your approval
of this change in the law.
Since its formation the Investment Committee has met regularly
every three months. Between quarterly meetings the business of the
Committee is conducted by correspondence or telephone.
As stated, we have just completed 15 years of operations. The

136

PROCEED INGS OP THE

following is a summar y of the consolid ated market value of securitie s
owned, plus investab le cash. togethe r with a record of dollar income
on these investm ents, beginni ng with Novem ber 30, 1950, and for each
succeed ing fiscal year, through June 30, 1965, includin g the percent age
income on the market value o.f each year.
BLE CASH•
CONSOLI DATED MARKET VALUE OF SECURIT IES AND INVESTA
-)
(BY GROUPS AND TOTA.LS) AND DOLLAR INCOME (In Pannlh
lncom•
Perc•ntTOTALS
GROUP UI
as•
GROUP II
GROUP I
Amount
Ret11mt
Amo1mt
%
Amoant
%
Amo1U1t
o ....
s au,ooa 6.9 s 1,124,471 1.97
1.7
102,140
82.4
15,168,!29
11/ 10/ 60
(Sl20,598)
($22,056)
($4,262)
(S94,280)
5 .972,968
2.58
17.2
1,025, 725
6.6
889,000
76.8
4,558,2'8
8/ IS/ 51
($168,989)
($68,208)
($16,652)
(S74,084)
S.09
,U8,864
1
27.9
1,8&6,121
8.7
574,096
6!.4
4,218,687
8/4/52
($205,272)
($98,614)
(S20,882)
($86,827)
1.21
7,881,806
29.9
2.208,658
&.5
479,527
68.1
4,188,120
7/ 11/ H
($286,590)
($112,816)
(119.894)
(S102,881)
1.21
8,401,255
19.0
1,278,814
9.2
771.147
61.I
4,161,!94
7/11/64
($276,296)
($152,07')
('27,963)
(596,268)
1.06
10,lit,•U
17.8
S,820,092
6.7
'78,610
66.6
6,610,942
7/11/H
($809,8'6)
($168,880)
(S24.S94)
(SlH,621)
s.u
11,118,108
11.6
S,506,096
14.4
1 , 695.~2
5'.1
8,011,460
'7/ 11/ 6'
($371,407)
($160,697)
($68,588)
($167 .122)
8.81
11,826,608
87.0
4,192,291
n.o
1,928,881
41.0
6,205,935
1/10/ 67••
(SH0,806)
('197,671)
($89,399)
($168,284)
1.97
12,629,626
88.9
4,878,889
17.9
2,261,789
'8.1
1,197,547
l/10/58
($496,948)
($225,340)
($96,946)
($174,662)
1 .76
13, 789, 757
88.2
5.270,217
18.5
1,864,636
48.1
8,684,916
8/10/61
($517,425)
( $185,854)
(587,858)
(S2'2,718)
28.5
1S,466,458 1t 4.02
8,887,628
17.7
2,879,050
58.8
7 ,249,780
1/10/ 80
($641,888
(1142,233)
(5117,031)
(5282,67')
1.71
16,281,892
40.6
6,689,011
18.1
2,961,098
41.4
8,741,788
8/10/ 11
($605,814)
($221,222)
( $187,967)
($246,625)
4.02
15,909,UO l
50. l
7,978,485
19.5
1.101,090
80.4
4,8&5,116
6/ 10/ 12
(S689, 757)
(1828,24S)
(1147,489)
($119,025)
3.5'
U
19,721,661
67.6
11,068,171
7.6
l,522,535
8'.8
7,130,955
6/ 80/ 68
($697,471)
($376,150)
($66,373)
($256,948)
20.714,026 ••• S.57
'4.4
9,188,969
3.4
694,478
62.2
10,880,679
8/ 80/ 64
($738,717)
($289,416 )
($30,326)
($418,720)
3.681
22,(21,284 1
49.95
11,199,347
4.16
982,287
46.89
10.289, 650
6/ 30/ 65
($824,363)
( $380,110)
($40,202)
($404,051)
GrOUIJ I.
•Savlnir1 bank deJ)09iUI with lntereot enrned thereon are ineluded In
tOn market value.
••Flecal 7ear chanaed to June 10.
Homes General Fund, and the
ttThe amount of 11,130,000 wu withdrawn from the Masonic
30, 1960, to vay for the new
amount of $85,000 from tbe Flint Fund. during the year ended June
hoeplt&l at Deeoto (tot&! $1,215,00 withdrawn ).
Lodire part.folio in the year ended June
fThe amount of 1128,000 waa withdra wn from the Gl"Snd
30, 1962, to fund the unpaid balance of Grand Lodge Pension Fu11d.
durinll the year ended June 80,
UThe amount of 1854,000 WllLB withdrawn from the General Fund
1963, for new dormitory at Union City (Decato}.
in the year ended June 80,
•••The amount of $939,023.5 2 waa withdrawn from the GeneralatFund
Union City (D•coto).
1964, aa IJ•rt payment for the n ew Charles A lbert Ada m• Hnll
amount of $77,700 waa
the
and
Fund
General
the
from
ithdrawn
w
waa
tThe amount of $81',689
for the new Charlea Albert
withdrawn from the Flint Fund durini: the year ended June 80, 1965,
Adam• Hall at Union City (Decato).
r.ot Included 118 current incom'IReferene e should be made to the fact that stock dividend3 areincluded
these atock dividends (not
year, if we had
they remain as. part of vrinciJ)al. For the IJllSLworth
price, the income would have
ma.rket
the
at
heir
t
atoek •1Jlits) in Income and calculated
totnl portfolio of about ( .05% . Aa
inc.-....aed by approxima tely $90,000, giving ua a return on the
t circlea with res pect to auch atock
of now, there ia no fixed or uniform thought in inve11tmen
corpua of our aasete, which In
dividend&. therefore th.e Committee conUnues to allocate them to the
the cue of the Endowme nt Fund, remains inviolate aa pa.rt of prlnci1Jal.

"' •

137

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

During the .past year securitie s were sold at prices yielding $415,307
more than their cost. thereby increasi ng the total asset value. Since
the inaugur ation of the Pruden t Man Rule in 1950. this total amount s
to $4,407,018.97. Sales always remain a part of capital assets and are
never included in income totals. With respect to the Endowm ent Fund '
no capital assets are ever withdra wn.
Endowm ent Fund contribu tions made through the Lodges amount ed
to $846.895 for the year ended June 30, 1965. Other gifts and bequest s
for the Masoni c Homes amount ed to $930.523 (which also includes
real estate and items other than stocks and bonds). The Masoni c
Homes Board of Trustee s determ ines how these gifts and bequest s
are allocat ed.- these allocati ons are made in accorda nce with specific
bequest s. or m the absence of such. at the directio n of the Trustee s.
!he En.dow ment Fund contribu tions remain in that Fund, and only the
mcome 1s used.
May we also C<Jil attentio n to the fact that the portfoli o has increase d
since Novemb er, 1950, from $6,124,471 to $22,421.284, or about
266.09% . and at the same time the income has increase d from $120.598
to $815 .363. or 576.10% . As mention ed above, $1 ,215,000 was withdrawn for the n~w Decoto hospital in the year ending June 30. 1960;
$128.000. was withdra wn in the year ending June 30.1962, to fund
the unpaid balance of the Grand Lodge Pension Fund; the amount of
$354,000 was ~ithdrawn for the new dormito ry and living quarter s
fo.r employ~es m the year ending June 30, 1963; $939,023.52 was
withdra wn m the year ending June 30. 1964 for work on the Charles
Albert Adams Hall. and $392.389 was withdra wn in the year ending
June 30, 1965 for w9rk on the same hall. and also for furnishi ngs. The
total of all such withdrawals amount s to $3,028,412.52.
The following is the consolid ated investm ent portfoli o of Grand
Lodge, with market values a s of June 30.1965, divided into the various
~roups. and showing the percent age of each group, togethe r with the
mcome return for each group on the market value:
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFO RNIA
CONSO LIDATE D PORTFO LIO - JUNE 30, 1965
(Market Value•)
Mark~t

Value

Income

GROUP I
Cash ..........................................$ 561,816
900,000
Certifica tes of Deposit ....... .
Bonds:
U. S. Treasur y ........................ 3,496,044
U. S. Agency .......................... 1,490,790
91,000
Municipals ..............................
Railroad Equipment .......... .. 3,750,000

$ 22,473
38,250
125,936
62,590
3,050
151, 752

Total Bonds ........................ 8,827,834

TOTAL GROUP I ............$10,289,650

Return on
Mark•t

343,328
45.89%

$404,051

3.9%

138

Masonic Homes of California
Perine Fund ..................................................
Masonic Homes of California
Wadleigh Fund ----·----·-----·-····-----····· .. ··---------·-

GROUP II

Bonds:
Miscellaneous ........................
Industrial ·-····················-·······-Finance --------·-----·----········---------

44,732
583,500
27,600

2,401
24,688
1,060

Total Bonds ··-·······-···----·-····
Preferred Stocks:
Industrial ---·-·-------·······---·---··--·
Convertible ----·····-···-------·--··-···Total Preferred Stocks......

655,832

28,149

380
276,075

21
12,032

276,455

12,053

TOTAL GROUP II ............ $

932,287

4.16%

$ 40,202

$380,110
$824,363

4.3%

3.4%
t3.7%

•In tbe above schedule rn.ilroad equipment trust lseuea are fiirured at par. If they we r e figured at
n1arket, the total value of the portfolio would be approximately $64,366 l.. s than the abovo figure
of $22,421,284.
t See note re stock dividends follow!nir table of Consolidated Market Values.

We have three principal accounts. the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund, the Masonic Homes General Fund, Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
California (plus the several smaller funds of the Masonic Homes).
The record is kept by Moody's as one total fund, thereby reducing
our cost very materially. However, Grand Lodge records are kept
separate as to each fund, as are the records of the Investment Com~
mittee. As a matter of interest, we list here the market values of the
portfolios of the individual funds, together with the income and yield
at market prices:
Total Value*

Income•

702.80

3.59

12,097.00

467.88

3.87

The Masonic Homes of C alifornia holds various Temple shares or
certificates. listed as follows:

125,650
149,793
104,667
49.95%

19,576.25

•As of J une 80, 1965, including inveatable caeh. Interest on savinr;rs accounts, investable c noh
only, is fiirured at 4% and c ertificates of der><>slt at 41/,,.%. In thi• table, railroad equipment trust
Issues ere figured nt present market value. All of t heoe figures are as of J une 30, 1965, and the
yield on the investments would vary during the ye nr, depending up0n the many fa ctors which are
involved.

GROUP III

Common Stocks:
Public Utility ····-··········-·-·····- 3,318,580
Industrials ··------························ 4,482,812
Finance ···--····-·----····················· 3,397,955
TOTAL GROUP III Common Stocks ···---------$11,199,347
GRAND TOTAL ----··---·------$22,421,284

139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Yield•

Masonic Homes of California
Endowment Fund -·-···-····---··--·····-··--··-·········$16,986, 736. 77 $642,012.23 3.78%
Masonic Homes of California
General Fund ·-----------·---··----·--·-·---··-·-·---·-·-·--· 3,416,529.96 106,588.30 3.12
906,471.62
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California........
35,803.92 3.95
Masonic Homes of California
295,973.69
11,260.55 3.80
Flint Fund ----······-·········-····--··--·····-···--·--·······-Masonic Homes of California
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund. ____________ _ 263,610.50
9,435.27 3.58
Masonic Homes of California
210,335.13
Florence K. Burt Fund............................... .
7,221.72 3.35
Masonic Homes of California
78,669.63
3,266.48 4.15
Luckenbach Fund -·--·----·······-····--······---·····-··
Masonic Homes of California
55,719.19
2,268.33 4.07
Residents' Reserve Fund ·····-·-···---····------··-Masonic Homes of California
44,636.63
1,828.94 4.10
Brigham Scholarship Fund ·········-···-·--·---Masonic Homes of California
.
20,993.00
Students' Loan Fund ...................................
772.42 3.68

2 shs Santa Ana Masonic Temple Assn. Ltd. capital stock
3 shs Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton capital stock
9 shs Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Assn. capital stock
46 shs Masonic Hall Association of Alameda capital stock
1 cert. of membership San Gabriel Masonic Temple Assn.
1 cert. for 10 memberships Rio Vista Masonic Temple Assn. Inc.
20 certs. Masonic Hall Association of Ontario.

These evidences of debt or certificates are owned by the Masonic
Homes of C alifornia. It would be appreciated if negotiations were
undertaken by those Lodges or Temple Associations who could afford
to redeem these certificates. The Investment Committee would greatly
appreciate your consideration of this request. Just write to the Grand
Secretary for further information.
We have no particular case history to report this year. We still have
several very interesting items which will mature in time - Santa Rosa
Savings & Loan Association, Corona Foothill Lemon Company, Ramona
Savings & Loan Association (Fillmore)-to na~e a few.
The entire portfolio is listed in the Grand Treasurer's and Auditors'
Reports, and therefore is not included herein. The securities are held in
safekeeping for account of Grand Lodge by the Trust Department of
the Crocker Citizens National Bank, at its One Montgomery Street
Office, San Francisco.
We have had excellent attendance at our Investment Committee
meetings during this year, as has been the case since this Committee
was organized. We were very pleased to have M.W. Grand Master
Elmer W. Heald attend our August, 1964 meeting.
Again we come to that portion of the Investment Committee report
when we try to summarize in few words the financial and investment
outlook as we see it.
We are presently pursuing an even more conservative course, as
already indicated by the figures. With what we believe to be a greatly
changed investment atmosphere, we have the objective of obtaining
the greatest amount of protection for our funds, under trying conditions
and changing circumstances.

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As we have repeatedly said, the problems do not diminish, but we a re
prepared to meet them as they arise. Fortunately, we can move swiftly,
which we have done when necessary.
We again repeat that our course of action can be quite different
from that of the individual for a variety of reasons. This statement is
made so as not to influence personal actions.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary and his staff, and my thanks
to the members of the Investment Committee for their wholehearted
and generous cooperation at all times.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Investment Committee:

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE

PAUL A. PFLUEGER
JAcK F. BowLEY
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
EDGAR
STEWART, JR.
JOHN M. GORDON

v.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges has
had under consideration for several years the request of the Grand
Lodge of Turkey for recognition by the Grand Lodge of California.
We have delayed action to allow sufficient time to make sure that the
Grand Lodge of Turkey is well established and entirely regular. It
now appears that the Grand Lodge of Turkey meets these standards,
and we therefore recommend that the Grand Lodge of California extend
fraternal recognition to the Grand Lodge of Turkey. The official address
is Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Turkey, Nafiz Ekemen, Grand Secretary. Nuruzlya Sok. No. 25, Istanbul, Turkey.
From information furnished us, it appears that Masonry in Egypt
was forbidden in 1961 by a formal decree of the Egyptian Government.
"'!e have heretofore carried a reference to E gypt in the list of recog~•zed Grand Lodges, though we have not been in touch wi th any Lodges
m that country for some yea rs. For all practical purposes. any Grand
Lodge has ceased to exist in Egypt.
We therefore recommend the formal withdrawal of recognition from
the National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
Respectfully submitted,
PHIL N. MYERS
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, JR .

Adopted.

141

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Your Constitution Observance Committee is pleased to report to the
Grand Lodge that, through the splendid support, enthusiasm and efforts
of the Craft as a whole. we are able to report an outstanding year of
accomplishment on this most worthwhile project. Your Committee has
endeavored to implement and carry out the theme for this Masonic
Year as set forth in the Grand Master's Constitution Observance Proclamation that the celebration of this important event in American
history. in fact in the history of all mankind, should be a joyous occasion
and recognized as such by all of the people of California and that all
constituent Lodges hold public celebrations commemorating the signing
of our Constitution of the United States.
The ultimate success of this year's program must certainly be
ascribed to the cooperation and enthusiasm of everyone associated with
this work; first, the Committee expresses its sincere appreciation to the
Grand Master who conceived the theme for the year, and for his continued support of the program; our thanks are extended also to the
Grand Lecturer and the Assistant Grand Lecturers who permitted members of this Committee to present and explain our program to the
Inspectors as a group, and to the Inspectors for their cooperation and
enthusiasm when we presented the aims and purposes of this program
to the Masters and Officers of the Lodges. But more especially we
express our appreciation to those Masters, Officers and Brethren of the
Lodges who, by·their enthusiasm and splendid efforts, actually presented
this program to the California public. The Grand Secretary's office
certainly was of constant assistance to the Committee"s work. Therefore, any accomplishment or progress reported here was due to the
combined support and efforts of the entire Craft at all levels of Masonry
in California and Hawaii.
This concept or approach of presenting these celebrations to the
public at large in our communities is in its infancy in many areas. and
your Committee feels that the continued success of this approach depends upon the incoming Masters of our Lodges appointing chairmen
within their Lodges who are aggressive as well as cooperative and enthusiastic in this program. In this connection, this Committee unanimously feels that the real aim and ideal of this program are to encourage
the California public as a whole to an added awareness and a better
understanding and appreciation of our constitutional form of government.
Your Committee has found that a dedicated and aggressive chairman
within the Lodge usually produces a successful, worthwhile as well as
Masonically proper celebration out in the community.
With the advent of this technique whereby this program was pre-

142

PROCEEDING S OF THE

sent.e~ to public .gatherings. attendance skyrocketed ; but. any such
sta.t1stical . com~ansons ~re not r~alistic. Ho~ever, it is interesting to
pomt out in this connection that m one outlying area of California th·
year the signing of our Constitution was celebrated before more peo :S
than was reported in the entire State last year. In many areas, whp e
formerly a limited number of the brethren gathered at their Lodge ~re
this celebration, .now. by presenting this program to the public, the~~
were thousands m attendance. Are we not in this manner reaching out
to those persons wh~ stand to profit most from the message this Masonic:
progra~ offers? This approach called for celebrations at high school
assemblie~. footba.II g.ames, churches, service clubs and like assemblages,
always ~1th. the dignity befitting any program of our Craft. Again. mass
commumcat1on coverage, through radio and television announceme nts
was used effectively in the metropolitan areas of Los Angeles and Sa '
Francisco, and over 200.000 "Preamble" promotional pieces were agai~
used throughout the State in conjunction with our celebrations . In
short some real progress is evident here in the presentation of this most
worthwhile program of our Fraternity.
In conclusion, your Committee makes the following recommenda tions:
1. Your Committee renews the recommend ation of the 1963 Committee on Constitution Observance that this Committee be made a
Standing Committee of this Grand Lodge, since the activities of this
Committee deal with one of the most important and worthwhile programs of the Craft.
2. That future Constitution Observance programs of this Grand
Lodge be celebrated as public gatherings, in public places other than
Masonic buildings, except in those instances where the local Masonic
Temple is the chief meeting place in the community.
Respectfully submitted.
THOMAS
EARL PATTERSON, JR.
CHARLES L. HAPAI
CARLE. MUMPER
CLARENCE N. JOHNSON
LATHAM
]AMES
EDWARD A. UNDERWOOD
DAW
DENMAN
ALAN B. BODLEY
}ACK B. CRAWFORD
RAYMOND A. EBBAGE
HEROLD GREGORY

v.

c.

c.

143

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

w. THURMAN
EDWARD W. WREDE, Jr.
PALMER
ORAN
JoHN H. MASTELLER
ARTHUR M. POWELL
CHARLES N. CLARKSON
HowARD L. McCARTHY
ELLSWORTH H. BURSON
ARTHUR H. REED
DONALD L. BATTEN
ROBERT K. HAGER

w.

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudenc e, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.
At 1 I :55 a .m. Grand Lodge was called off until J :30 p.m.

AFfERNO ON SESSION -Tuesday, October 12, 1965
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on , the Deputy Grand Master
residing. This session was raised by Worshipful Ray Banks, Master of
Antioch Lodge No. 175. The invocation was delivered by Worshipful
Robert B. Watts, former Grand Chaplain.
At 2 :40 p.m. the Grand Master returned from the Ladies' Luncheon
and Fashion Show, where he had been the commentato r. and resumed the
chair as presiding officer.

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON CORRESP ONDENC E
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:
Your Committee has completed the twelfth year of the publication
of the quarterly California Freemason. The Committee has also continued to review the proceedings of sister jurisdictions and to print
extracts which may be of interest to California Masons.
At the 1964 Communica tion of Grand Lodge it was voted to send
the California Freemason at Grand Lodge expense to every member.
This required setting up a mailing list of nearly a quarter of a million
names which proved to be a tremendous task. It was first necessary to
determine whether address plates or a computer system be utilized. A
comparison of the cost and efficiency of the two systems indicated the
new and modern method be employed. The post office requires zip
codes on all addresses and it was necessary to obtain these data. It soon
became apparent that it would not be possible to start the new distribution until the Spring issue. The address list is now completely established and, with .the cooperation of the Lodge Secretaries, will be kept
up to date.
This is our financial report for the year ending June 30, 1965:
Expenditure s of Committee during fiscal year. This
includes putting out two issues to approximate ly
90,000 subscribers and two issues of 250,000. It also
includes the cost of setting up the address list on
computer tape from which the magazines are
addressed -····-··-···-··-··························-····--·····-······· ······ $59.591.78
11,810.74
Income from subscription s....... ·-··············-··· ···········-·-·······
$47.781.04
The accountant recommends that this amount be transferred from the California Freemason reserve of
$40,108.81, leaving a balance in the reserve of
$4.000.00 which is considered adequate as to unexpired subscription s now remaining........................

35,944.56

Net deficit................

$11,836.48

PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

We recom mend that Gran d Lodg e trans fer the
sum indic ated from
the Calif ornia Freem ason reserv e and a?sor b ~he
~et .deficit. It is point ed
out that this was a trans ition year and 1s not md1c
at1ve of futur e opera tions , as the following budg et will show :
BUD GET FOR FISC AL YEA R END ING

JUN E 30. 1966

PROB ABLE EXPE NDITU RES

Print ing contr act ......................................................
............... .
Seco nd Class posta ge........................... .................
...... ........... .
Maile r's charg e -···---· ········--····--··--················;············Salar ies (cleri cal help at Gran d Secre tary s office ··· ··-······ ··
as based
on last year) ·-····-·---------···--·------·······························
---·--··· ·
Servi ce Burea u Corp oratio n (keep ing maili ng
list up to
date and provi ding mailing tapes ) ........................
........... .
Edito rial expen se......................................................
............... .

$42.000.00
2.200.00
4.200.00
6,000.00
6.500.00
1,000.00
$61.900.00

PROB ABLE REVE NUE

244,0 00@ 25c.................................................... $60.0
00.00
Sale of subsc riptio ns to sojou rners and nonresid ents ......................................................
1,900.00

$61.900.00

The Comm ittee will endea vor, not only to keep
the Calif ornia Freemason at its prese nt high stand ard. but to impro
ve the publi cation at
every oppo rtuni ty.
Resp ectfu lly subm itted,
NEWC OMB Co ND EE
G EORGE W . BuRc H, JR.
JoHN Wun scHL EGER
MAUR ICE B. Ross
RALP H T . MERR IAM
L. CHAN NON
EDWA RD G. FREE MAN

s.

Refer red to Comm ittee on Finan ce.

1'15

REP ORT OF SPEC IAL COM MIT TEE
ON MAS ONI C EDU CAT ION
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A. M.
of California:
Our Gran d Mast er, Most Wors hipfu l Theo dore
Meria m, has emphasi zed innov ation this year. He has point ed
out its impo rtanc e in
secur ing the great est progr ess and grow th for
any organ izatio n. Your
Comm ittee felt that in order to be innov ative, two
thing s were neces sary:
One, a subst antia l know ledge of that which was
trans piring in Maso nic
educa tion elsew here and: two, a caref ul quest ionin
g revie w of our own
pract ices in this jurisd iction with the hope of being
able to afford some
suggestions for innov ation s in Maso nic educa tion
for the Gran d Lodg e
of Calif ornia .
In regar d the first consi derat ion . the Comm ittee
has been engag ed for
the past sever al years in assem bling infor matio n
abou t Maso nic Educ ation pract ices throu ghou t the Unite d State s. This
year we have been
most fortu nate in havin g as a member of the
Comm ittee Wors hipfu l
Ralph Herb old, who has devot ed consi derab le time
and atten tion to the
comp letion of this study and to assem bling the
findings. His summ ary
of Maso nic Educ ation in the Unite d State s is
appen ded to this repor t.
We are grate ful to Broth er Herb old for his outst
andin g achie veme nt.
With regar d our secon d consi derat ion, the Comm
ittee has devo ted
consi derab le atten tion to the probl em of how to achie
ve the best Maso nic
educa tion. We believe that educa tion for the candi
date is proba bly the
most impo rtant area in which to build for the
future . The Cand idate s'
Coac hes Hand book prepa red by Past Gran d Lectu
rer Dona ld G. Campbell and his Comm ittee, is the finest volume in
the cause of candi dates '
educa tion we have been able to disco ver. Its
use. howe ver, does not
appea r to be unive rsal.
Ther e can be little doub t that part of the probl em
in Maso nic educa tion arises from the multiplicity of dutie s of
the Inspe ctor. His dual
respo nsibil ity to the Gran d Lectu rer for ritual
and the Gran d Mast er
for admi nistra tion and organ izatio n of Lodg es
in his distri ct requi re
treme ndou s time and devot ion to Freem asonr y.
Ther e can be no question that both of these have been freely given
by the memb ers of the
inspe ctora l corps . Your Comm ittee feels that study
shoul d be made of
ways in which assis tance migh t be provi ded the
Inspe ctor in the promotion of Maso nic educa tion. Sever al sugge stion
s have been offere d.
Some of these are prese nted herew ith in the hope
they will be used by
our Gran d Mast er as a basis for study . It has been
sugge sted that each
Officers' Assoc iation have a comm ittee of two or
three officers who shall
be respo nsible unde r the Inspe ctor for Maso nic educa
tion. This Com mittee will then organ ize not only specific educa
tion progr ams for the
candi date, but also educa tion progr ams for the memb
ers of the respe ctive
Lodg es in their distri ct.

147

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

An alternate suggestion has been the appointmen t by the Inspector
of a Masonic education chairman in each Lodge in the same manner as he
is currently required to appoint an officers' coach in each Lodge.
Another suggestion which has been proposed is that there be one
education chairman in each Masonic district and that this chairman,
working under the Inspector, shall be responsible for the prepara tion,
initiation and execution of education programs in that district.
Your Committee has again attempted to coordinate the efforts of
the four California Research Lodges and has sponsored the Fourth
Annual Joint Meeting of these Research Lodges, held on Saturday.
June 26, 1965, at Westcheste r Lodge Masonic Temple, 7726 West
M a nchester Boulevard. Playa del Rey, Los Angeles. California.
There were presented for this program the following papers:
Masonic Education for the Candidate. by P. G. L. Donald G. Campbell; What the Newly Raised Master Mason S hould Know About Freemasonry, by P. G. L. Elbert W. Davis; M asonic Education for Every
M aster M ason, by William Poynter; An Introduction to Freemasonr y ,
by Ross K. Fuller; The Influence of Modern History on Ma sonic
Thought, by Raymond B. Pease; What a Mason Should Know About
the Youth Groups, by Milton E. Ammann; The Holy Saints John and
Freemasonr y, by Alex Horne; Our Implied Obligations, by Attillio
Paresi; Leadership for Every Master Mason, by Arch Bradshaw.
Introductory remarks and greetings were brought by R. W. Myron
E. Smith, Deputy Grand Master and R. W . John F . Porter, Junior
Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of California.
Southern California Research Lodge was the host Lodge and W orshipful Milton Ammann, a member of the Committee, was chairman
for local arrangemen ts. It was because of their splendid efforts that
the meeting was so successful.
For the first time this year, the Proceedings of that Joint Research
Lodge meeting have been published. Every one of the excellent papers
presented at that session is printed in these proceedings. Copies of the
proceedings are available at this Grand Lodge session or from the
Grand Lodge office a t any time a t $.50 each.
Our Grand M aster has requested the Committee to continue the
Tuesday evening Masonic Education Seminar this year. It begins at
7 :30 p.m. at the California Masonic Memorial Temple a t 1111 California
St., San Francisco. The entire session this year will be held in the main
auditorium and is open to wives and friends.
The theme for the Education Seminar this year is "Freemason ry's
Place in the Community ." At the Seminar there will be presented ''The
Role of Freemasonr y in our Public Schools," by Attilio G . Parisi and
Herman M. Ritter. The Masonic Education Committee, headed by William H . Adams, has a panel co-ordinated by Howard Freeman and

composed of Sidney Mackin, William R. Latta, M a ury Foladare and
C. P . MacGregor . A youth group from the Masonic Club at the Universitiy at Berkeley consisting of Charles Glenn III, President of the
Clu.b. and M~ss Cheryl Bro:vn, Vice-Presid ent of the Club, with James
Smith who will perform a piano solo, and Charles H awkins and M artin
Pasqualetti performing on the guitars.
The Committee is deeply appreciative of the inspiration and support
of our G!and Mast.er ~heodore Meriam, whose shining example of his
outstanding labors ID his own community was responsible for the selection of ~he semin~r theme. Our Grand Master has pioneered this year
by holdmg a meetmg of the chairmen of the Masonic Information, Public Schools, Constitution Observance , and Masonic Education Committees, for the purpose of discussing mutual problems and for mutual
assistance. Your Committee hopes that this practice will be continued.
. The Committee is indeed grateful to the Grand Secretary. the Assistant Grand Secretary, and all of their staff for assistance cheerfully
given and guidance most va luable.

146

Respectfully submitted,

s.

Ho PP
EUGENE
MILTON E. AMMANN
Loms L. CUNNINGH AM
GORDON F. BLACK

c.

L EE
DAVID
EDWARD L. KELLAS
R ALPH A . HERBOLD
BERKLINE
R AYMOND

J.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

148

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.....
-·;....
'&

~ ~·
;~:3

;: _,

·- - 0..

:,e · ~

~·

.,~;:
..
u

..,::?

.,,., _
~E.;

-c=~
c ....

Alabam a ....................... x
Arizona......................... x
Arkans as............. .......... x
Califor nia..................... x
Colorado ..... .................. x
Connecticut... ............... x
Delaware ....... ··········:···· x
District of Columbia .. x
Florida ........................... x
Georgia ......................... x
Idaho.............................. x
Illinois ........................... x
Indiana ... ................ ·····-· x
Iowa .............. ................. x
Kansas.......................... . x
Ken_t~cky ............ ......... .
Lou1s1ana......... ...... ....... x
Maine .......................... ... x
Maryla nd ...................... x
Massac husetts......... ····· x
Michigan....................... x
Minnesota..................... x
M~ssissi~pL.. ............ ·····
Missou ri.................. ...... x
Montana ............. ........... x
Nebras ka... ................... x
Nevada.............. ............ x
New Hampshire .......... x
New Jersey.................. x
New Mexico................. x
NewYo rk ............. ........ x
North Carolina ..·········· X
North Dakota .............. . x
Ohio............. .............. .... x
Oklahoma ..................... x
Oregon .............. ............. x
Pennsy lvania............... x
Rhode Island...... ·········· x
South Carolina ... ........ . x
South Dakota .............. .
Tennessee............. ...... ..
Texas ............................. x
Utah .............. ................. x
Vermont.. ...................... x
Virginia .............. ........... x
Washin gton .................. x
West Virginia............. ..
Wisconsin ..................... x
Wyoming...................... x

x
x
x
x

x

x

x

x
x

SE
SW
SW
RM

NE

NE

NE
SE
SE

MW

MW

x

x

x

x

x

x
x

x
x

x

x

xa
x

x

x
x

x

x
x

xb
xc

xa
xc
xc

x

x

x

x

x

x
x
x
x

x
x

x

SW

x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x

x

x

x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x

-~ ~

-=~

~..e

::E.a

xb
xa

xa

xa
xa

xa

xb

xb

xb
xab
xa
xa

xa
xb
xa
xb
xb
xb

x
x

xab
xa

xb
xa

x
x
x

xb
xb

xa

x

x
x
x

xb
xb
xb

xc

x
x

x

SE
SW
RM

x
x

xa

xa

x

x
x
x
x

x

NE

x
x
x
x

x

xb
xa

MW

xc

RM

~Be
xb

xb

xab
xb
xb
xb

x

._ ~ e

~:g ~

xa

x

NE

. ·E"'

xa

xx
x

MW

:Jc~

xb

xa

NE
NE

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

~~~

x

x

x

SW

SE

x

c~

ii .. !

.. ...

x

xb

MW
MW

x

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON MASO NIC CEME TERIE

"".
.a.;

u-

0~~
..,
UuJ

xc

NE

NE

.=

~

c-~

O"

~=

~~

x

x

x

:i;

O.'E

~ o

c c

xa

SE
NE
NE

NE

Se

.. 0

_u

x
x
x
x

NE

x

-~
E
_, 0

·cci

t!!-;
.:1 - E'-

MW

MW
MW
SE
MW
RM
MW
RM

...

~
:c

xc
xb
x

MW

:i;~

i!°'g
... ::?

·;:

OU

~"'&
... _.
:0

~

0

E!!

c ..
o.,

,.,

rG.h~

:i; - ..

..e..._
.....
....
.,. E
.,_
'&
.......
u

·;;

x

li9

xa
xb
xb
xb
xa
xa
xb
xa
xa
xb
xa
xa
xa
xa
xa

S

The Comm ittee on Cemete ries respect fully submit s the annual
report of its activiti es during the past Mason ic Year 1964-65.
As past reports have indicat ed. work on this Comm ittee is individ
ually and collecti vely gratify ing. Our functio ns. we believe , can be
divided
into three major catego ries:
ONE- The care and upkeep of those cemete ries that are specific
ally
under the care of Grand Lodge. These are Colum bia at the State
Historical Park of Colum bia, Jamest own, at the old mining town
of that
name and Fiddle town, again at the old mining town of like name
and
near Piymou th.
Two- The continu ous efforts of the Comm ittee to work with
the
individ ual Lodges , in areas where cemete ry problem s exist. to
develo p
adequa te and practic al plans for proper care so that our image
in this
highly sensitiv e and public area is improv ed; and
THRE E-To consult with and, to the necess ary extent, control
the
setting up of special areas. Mason ic in name. in establi shed cemete
ries.
Also the erectio n of alta rs. or similar structu res. in such areas,
either
establi shed or to be establi shed.
Your Comm ittee would. therefo re, like to make its report in
that
order.
CoLUMBIA: Due to the effort·s of the past years by this Commi
ttee,
work this year at· Colum bia was kept at a minimum. Our Comm
ittee
membe r for that area, Brothe r Marcel Baer of Sonora , was
able to
work out a plan with the local group of the Future Farme rs of
Americ a
which kept the cemete ry in excelle nt conditi on at a very low
cost to
Grand Lodge. We wish that we could report that the same conditi
ons
would exist during the year to come. We do not feel. howeve
r, that at
this time we can depend on the help of the Future Farme rs
group for
this next year. Brothe r Baer reports that conditi ons have change
d and
that, in all probab ility, we will have to hire all work to be done.
Our
budget reques t for this cemete ry for the coming year, as presen
ted later
in this report, was made with this in mind. We have also had
a survey
made of the white picket fence surroun ding the cemete ry and
in all
probab ility it will have to be repaint ed during the year 1966-1
967.
JAMESTOWN: Our efforts this year at Jamest own have not been
as
produc tive as we had planne d. Our first problem , before any
reclam ation work could be done, was to comple te the proces s of getting
a clear
title to the proper ty in the name of Grand Lodge. Last year's Comm
ittee
had done all of the ground work on this and this spring, with
the help
of Brothe r Willia m C. Coffill. Attorn ey at Law of Sonora , the
courts

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

gave title and trusteeship to the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California.
A survey of the site was made by a registered surveyor and th~ boun~a­
ries set up in proper form. We were then ready to proceed m fencing
the plot, clearing the land and repairing the graves. Our hope was to
immediately start this work but late rains in the a rea prevented any
thought of work until late in May. Then , when the weather became
favorable, all local contractors were too busy to immediately put any
of their local men on the cemetery project. To hire extra crews would
have made the work far too expensive. Bids, therefore, for this work
came in too late for consideration during this past fisca l year. Our
budget for this year will reflect this in the amounts requested. V'f e have
suggested one change from the work as planned by last year s .Committee report and that is that the material to be used to fen~e m the
cemetery be wood in the form of a Cedar Rail fence. We belte~e such
a fence , having two gates--one for pedestrians and one for equ1pmen~,
is more in keeping with the historical background of the. a:ea and 1f
properly treated and installed will last for many years. S1m1~a_r fences
in the same climate and in adjacent locations are in good condition af~er
seventy- five and eighty years. Our budget request has been made with
this type of fence in mind and if Grand Lodge feels that we should
still go to a wire fence the budget will have to be increased to cover the
additional expense.
FIDDLETOWN : This cemetery, as reported by this Committee last
year, is a credit to the fraternity. Through the efforts of Broth~r Adrian
Taylor, our committeeman in that area, it has been further 1mpro~ed
this year with fencing completed and additional clean-up work bemg
done. A bronze plaque, to be mounted on a large natural granite bo~lder
at the gate of the cemetery, was dedicated by the Most Worshipful
Theodore Meriam, Grand Master, on April 24th in a late afternoon
ceremony. During the next year work pl~nn:d for this cemetery in
addition to general care will include the tnmmmg of all trees, removal
of limbs and mistletoe. Also there will be work. unable to be completed
this last year, on headstones, curbs and grave sites. V:Ve sincerely. hope
that by the end of the coming year all restorative work will be
completed.
The second part of our report deals with a phase of cemetery ca~e
in which a great amount of work is yet to be done. Past. re~orts of this
Committee have called attention to a number of cemeteries m a state of
neglect that are under the care of individual Lodges or should be under
the care of such Lodges in the vicinity. We are fully aware of the f~ct
that this phase of our activity is of a very sensitive nature ~nd w.e sincerely hope that the Lodges, when contacted, will also realize this and
full cooperation can be obtained. We also hope tha t the Lodge officers
and the membership of such Lodges will accept the basic fact that our
cemeteries are one of our most important "public" faces. Our ceme-

teries a re seen by people from. possibly, the entire world and their
neglect or abandonment reflects on all M asons.
During the coming year more time will be spent on those cases now
before us and on others still to be looked into for possible action. In
view of the fact that no firm solutions have been yet reached on the
specific problems we are working on they will not be detailed in this
report.
Thirdly, we have been called on twice this year to approve the
erection of altars in Masonic sections of already established cemeteries.
Brother Frederick Chapman, Committee member in Los Angeles, after
considerable correspondence and work, was able to obtain for the
Committee the plans for a proposed altar to be placed in El Camino
Memorial Park , San Diego. These plans were forwarded to the Grand
Master and approved. The altar is now in the process of construction.
The altar planned for Memory Garden Memorial Park at Brea, C alifornia and discussed in last year's Committee report has been completed and Brother Chapman reports that the Masonic section of tha t
cemetery is in excellent condition.
Last November a request was received by the Grand Master tha t
an altar be authorized for a Masonic section of the Sacred Gardens
Cemetery at Farmington near Stockton. After correspondence with
Brother E . J. W illett, Worshipful Master of Stockton Lodge No. 498
and with Brother Charles W. Heck, Worshipful Master of Delta Lodge
No. 471, plans were obtained for the G rand Master and were approved.
This altar is now being constructed and, we believe, will set aside a
section for Masons in the cemetery that will be a credit to the Craft.
In last year~s report this Committee was requested to make a
further study of the old cemeteries at Red Dog and Omega. These
cemeteries are in Nevada County and are all that remain of once
populated mining towns. Brother Leslie Woodworth and his friend,
Lisle White, have again this year, as they did last year, worked at
these two cemeteries . Three of our Committee have been able to visit
Red Dog this year. As a result of these visits the Committee would like
to make the following recommendation to Grand Lodge. That the Committee be empowered to solicit as a gift the site of the Red Dog
Cemetery from the present owner of the land with an irrevocable rightof-way thereto. That the Committee then arrange for the removal of
those trees uprooting graves, repair the fence surrounding the plot and
repair those graves that are repairable. We also ask that we be authorized to place the three remaining headstones at Omega in a concrete
slab. This will save these from destruction. We have permission from
the owner at Omega to do this and as it only entails an area of about
seventy-two square feet no title would be sought. We believe the cost
of these two projects will come to one thousa nd dollars with the future
upkeep of the Red Dog Cemetery costing one hundred dollars a year.

150

151

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Trusting that you. of Grand Lodge, will allow_us to mo:e to preserve
these historical cemeteries we are asking for this amount m our current
budget request. This money to be spent to place the cement ~ad at
Omega and, if title is given to Red Dog. spent to restore that site.
To continue the care and work necessary at Columbia, Jamestown
and Fiddletown and the proposed work at Red Dog and Omega together with the other activities of this Committe~, we respectfully
request the following amounts for our budget durmg the 1965-1966
Grand Lodge year :

REPORT OF BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS

152

300.00
250.00
150.00

To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
Good progress was made this year in development of both the
Grand Lodge Library and the Grand Lodge Museum , especially the
latter. Visitors signing our Library register this year numbered 1.728
against l, 182 last year. This probably represents a total of more than
2,000 persons actually entering the Library, since many do not sign
the register.
Additional visitors inspecting the museum cases outside the Library
cannot even be estimated, but with so many persons attending musical
and other presentations in the auditorium, the number must run well
into the thousands.

700.00

LIBRARY ACQUISITIONS

COLUMBIA:

General maintenance and clean-up ...................... $
Spraying for weeds (Labor) ............................... .
Spray material and equipment hire ....................... .
$
JAMESTOWN:

General maintenance and dean-up ...................... $ 200.00
Spraying for weeds (Labor). ............................... 250.00
Spray material and equipment hire...................... 150.00
Clearing of grounds and trim trees...................... 200.00
Cedar Rail fence and two gates............................ 600.00
Pedestrian approach to cemetery..........................
75.00
Repair and restore graves (now known)............ 250.00
$1 .725.00
FIDDLETOWN:

Spraying for weeds................................................$ 60.00
Repairing headstones (carry over from
last year) ···-····--······-··-················--··--······-···-····· 310.00
Professional limbing of trees and cartage............ 275.00
Trimming of trees and removal of mistletoe ........__2_5_0_.0_0
$ 895.00
Usual annual request for general committee use ...... $ 275.00
Supplemental request for use at Red Dog and
Omega (If authorized by action of Grand Lodge) ..$1.000.00
TOTAL BUDGET REQUEST .............................. $4.595.00
We wish to thank the Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam, Grand
Master, the Grand Secretary and his office staff and all othe.rs who
have been so very helpful to this committee in its work durmg the
past year.
Respectfully submitted,
BALLARD WHITE, JR.
HAROLD
SCHROEDER
FREDERICK H. CHAPMAN
ADRIAN TAYLOR
MARCEL M. BAER

c.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

153

Books acquired this year numbered 258, of which 146 were g ifts.
We now have 2,609 volumes on our lis t, plus a great number o f
volumes of proceedings of other Grand Lodges which have not yet been
catalogued, as they are in ·storage. They are, however, arranged so that
when calls are made for particular volumes these can be found readily .
NEW ACQUISITION POLICY

Heretofore your commission has considered its first duty, after
preserving what books we have, to be the acquisition of books suitable
for the use of the ordinary Mason. In doing this we have purchased
principally new books as they were published.
Now we feei it is time to go aggressively into the market and
broaden our acquisitions so as to make available to the brethren books
suited to more advanced ,s tudy. For this purpose the financial section
of this report will contain a request for additional money to purchase
books.
MUSEUM ACQUISITIONS

Gifts of museum items this year have been numerous and valuable.
Some leading items are:
A beautifully constructed Chippendale "Master's Chair" used for
many years by an old English Lodge, presented by M. W . Brother
Alfred F. Breslauer.
An autograph book in which President Lincoln wrote an encouraging message for a wounded soldier. With this gift from Bruce A and
Ruth Austin Cameron came two Lincoln pictures and other items.
A Masonic apron of the Civil War era, with a romantic history,
gift of Ruth M. Murdock.
A number of books and three volumes of photographs of Masonic
meeting places, gift of Brother Leslie Woodworth.

155

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

From Yount Lodge No. 12, a copy of the report of the Masonic
Relief Committee which aided so many brethren and Masonic dependents at the time of the earthquake and fire in San Francisco.
Turned over to us from Grand Lodge archives. for preservation
and the use of students, were:
Drawings of the three seals used at different times by Grand Lodge.
The papers of extinct Violet Lodge No. 138, given to us in 1962
but erroneously filed and mislaid. These have been catalogued and
summarized. The dispensation and all records of Fortitude Lodge U.D.,
of Chung king, China. These give a nearly complete record of this unique
California Lodge which existed in China during World War II.

gladly send bO?ks by mail to any California Mason residing in any
area where Umted States domestic mail rates apply at no cost to him
except the special low book rate postage for returning them to us.
We even supply the container for the return.

151

MusEUM PROGRESS

We received from Worshipful Brother Ed Hudson of Paso Robles
the model of King Solomon's Temple for which Gra_nd Lo~ge last year
authorized a special display case. This is now on display m the lobby.
This has been an object of much interest to visitors to the Temple.
We also received and placed on the second floor the additional
museum display case authorized last year and this is now well stocked
with items of Masonic interest.
A recommendation for an additional case, to replace the common
showcase now in the Library room, is included in this report.
STAFFING THE LIBRARY

While arranging for brethren to open the Library continues to be
a problem. we have been able during this year to maintain it in active
operation from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesdays and Wednesdays and
sometimes on Mondays. Lately Worshipful Brother Irving Magnes
has kept the Library open on Thursdays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
For most of the year Brother Marshall Young has staffed the
Library on Sundays from 12 noon to 1 p.m. Others active in the
Library have been Brothers William H. Scott, William H. Mc~aster,
who has labored mightily in cataloguing our books. Arthur Simpson,
and Thomas Scogland.
INTEREST IN LIBRARY

Through the increased exposure to our books which these brethren
make possible, through distribution of reading lists to all Masons who
visit the Library and through several notices Masters have inserted
in their bulletins. the number of books borrowed has increased, though
admittedly at a disappointing rate.
We urge our brethren to make full use of the library facilities. We

FINANCIAL

Last year Grand Lodge appropriated $5.750 for new display cases
for the museum, the major portion of which was for the special case for
t~e model of ~ing Solomon's Temple. By prudent management and a
discount obtamed from the suppliers, we were able to save enough
almost to pay for needed additional bookshelves. This made it unnecessary to ask for money for shelving this year, as had been planned,
and hence the only capital investment being asked this year is $2 315
for one museum display case to replace that which is now i~side
the library room. This case, second-hand when acquired by Grand
~odge man~ years ago, does not permit proper display of our museum
items and m appearance is incompatible with the dignity of this
magnificent temple.
OPERATING EXPENSE

We are making every effort to induce additional brethren to give
a few hours a day one day a week to keeping the Library open. We
hope to have it open every day. As we allow these brethren their actual
~us a nd ~ar fare pl~s a nominal sum for luncheon, this item appears
likely to mcrease this year. We are therefore asking that this part of
the appropriation be increased from $350 to $500.
.. As Ion~ ag?. as. 1925.. our Education Committee was listing as
necessary or advisable numbers of books which we do not have
an~ h~ve n~ver. had: We desire this year to make a beginning toward
r~ctifymg this s~tu~t10n and therefore are asking that the part of the
Library appropriation allocated to purchase of books be increased from
$200 to $350.
COMPARISON OF APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENSES, 1964-65 AND 1965-66
CAPITAL INVESTMENT

1961-65
(two cases) $5.750

1965-66
(one case) $2,315

Printing and circularizing _____ ···-···················
Librarian's expense -.................... ·-·······---···
Supplies and postage..... -..............................
Purchase of books ................... ______________ ·······
Miscellaneous and contingent.. ................ ..

150
350
100
200
150

150
500
100
350
150

TOTAL OPERATING ••••••••••••••••••.••.••••••••••••••.• $

950

$1.250

GRAND TOTAL .............................................. $6,700

$3,565

OPERATI NG EXPENSE

156

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

is an organization of which we as Master Masons may always be proud.
However. DeMolay Chapters and membership could be doubled in a
very short time if we. as individual Masons. make up our minds to a
program of ACTION. Remember Brethren. we are still builders in this case building the minds of a future generation.

Your comm1ss1on wishes again to express its appreciation of the
helpful co-operation and good and timely advice of the Grand Secretary
and the cheerful assistance rendered by every member of the Grand
Lodge staff, the Manager of the Temple and the several members of
the Temple staff. We have yet to have a request for help refused.
Respectfully submitted,
DAVID R. LANE
RussELL G. WORTH
JOSEPH A . PIVERNETZ
HAIG D. SoGHOMONIAN

157

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WILLIAM H . SCOTT
MERLIN W. DRucauER
JOHN BELLMAN, JR.
Dw1GHT N. DEANE

c.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DeMOLAY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. o A. M. of California:
Masonry in California has a tremendous opportunity to combat,
through the Order of DeMolay. some of the evil forces causing unrest
in the minds and lives of our youth.
As we carried on our duties with the Committee during the past
year. we have found again that the young men busy in the activities
of a DeMolay Chapter are far removed from the juvenile delinquents
making the headlines. A boy of fourteen tends to follow the crowd;
he may well be as good or as bad as his associates. However, when
he follows the example of an older DeMolay boy, guided by a group
of advisors who are Master Masons, we soon find him knocking at the
door of a Blue Lodge, still emulating that which he has learned in
De Mo lay.
H erbert Hoover once said, "Words without action are the assassins
of idealism." Words of help and assistance for the Order of DeMolay
are coming from the entire institution of Masonry. However, definite
meaningful action is coming mainly from the Grand Lodge officers
and from the administrative officers and advisors of DeMolay. The
appendant Bodies of Masonry are helping but a more effective action
could be obtained if there were closer coordination and liaison with
the Grand Lodge. Past and present Grand Lodge officers. in their
visitations have done a splendid job of spelling out to the Lodges every
encouragement to participate in the affairs of DeMolay. but despite
this effort, many Blue Lodges still hesitate to sponsor or encourage a
DeMolay Chapter. Presently there are approximately 280 DeMolay
Chapters in this Grand Jurisdiction. Our observation shows that there
are many areas open for additional chapters and we suggest that each
Lodge investigate this potential in its jurisdiction.
There is no hesitation on the part of this committee when we say
that DeMolay is good for the youth of California and America, and

We have been welcomed enthusiastically on our visits to various
Chapters and especially at DeMolay conferences and conventions.
Strenuous efforts are being made by the DeMola y administrators to see
that every Chapter lives up to the laws and edicts of this Grand body.
On these visitations there is a constant feeling that the entire organization of DeMolay is looking to Masonry and especially the Grand
Lodge for definite leadership. Each committeeman has asked the question, "What are we doing for DeMolaly?" and "What more can we do
to insure the future of Masonry and the generations of the future?"
The Grand Master, several Past Grand Masters. and the Grand
Secretary have been most helpful by sitting in on the deliberations of
your committee, and making it possible to meet with other Grand
Lodge committees.
A word of thanks is certainly due all DeMolay Chapters for their
civic activities. and especially for their help to the Blue Lodges during
Public Schools Weck, Constitution observances, installations and other
activities that help to build the image of Masonry in every community.
In fact, DeMolay Week in March and DeMolay Traffic Safety Week
in October are becoming outstanding examples of youth on the march
and are setting an example of exemplary action for other youth to
follow.
'
We recommend and have requested the Finance Committee for a
budget of seven hundred and fifty ( $750) dollars for the work of the
committee next year.
With all due regard for the progress that has been made to date, and
the desire of Grand Lodge to help in every way possible, there still
remain several basic problems that need immediate attention. We therefore recommend that a special committee be appointed to study in
depth and to make recommendations concerning the following:

1. Improved communication and liaison between DeMolay and the
various Masonic Bodies.
2. Method of establishing a liaison between appendant Masonic
Bodies and the Grand Lodge with respect to DeMolay.
3. Need for obtaining more interest and active participation in
DeMolay by the Master Mason.
4. Method of insuring adequate support for DeMolay administrative organization.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5. Problem of assisting the young man reaching his majority in
making the transition from DeMolay to Master Mason.
6. Need for making DeMolay available to every eligible boy.
As the Committee proceeds with its study. other problems may be ·
discovered and should be included in the report. The above list should
not be considered restrictive or all inclusive.
We wish to thank each of you for the helpfulness and cooperation
we have received this past year.
Respectfully submitted,
RA y
KIMBELL
LESTER G. BRUNO
HOMERE. RATHBUN
RoY H . GERARD
HAROLD S. MEDO
WENDELL M. ANDERSON
CLYDE PATENAUDE
ROBE RT D. LINTNER
FRANK H. WHALEN
DARRELL DIXON
ARTHUR J. PANCOOK
GARFIELD G. LAIBLIN
JOHN L. WIXON
Referred to Committee on Finance.

businessmen, professional men. laborers and last, but not least, parents
of the citizens of tomorrow.
The whole philosophy and the basic religion of human life is to be
found in the fundamental principles of Masonry.
The tenets of our Order are Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth, and
the first among them is-

158

s.

GRAND ORATION
"A RE- EXAMINATION OF THE FUNDAMENTAL S
OF FREEMASONRY "
BYRON C. MORTON, Grand Orator

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Past Grand Masters, Grand
Lodge Officers, Distinguished Guests and my Brethren:
To be standing before you today in this honored position is most
unexpected in my young Masonic life. I am not unmindful of the many
outstanding Masons who have occupied this office before me and have
imparted to you great thoughts and lessons on the various phases of
Masoney. It makes the task before me seem in·surmountable, but I will,
in my own way, convey to you the thoughts which I have today.
Your Grand Master. the Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam. has
been an inspiration to all the Grand Lodge Officers this year, as well as
to all the Masons in California. It was my extreme pleasure and honor
to serve with him in 1959 when he was your Grand Orator. Ever since
that time I have had the greatest respect for his ability and dedication
to the principles of Freemasonry. Throughout this year he has stressed
the emphasis on the basic principles of our Institution-that we should
pick up the working tools-ever mindful that the practice of our teachings would make us better men and better Masons. To him I would
like to express my deepest gratitude for allowing me to serve again as
a Grand Lodge Officer. It has been a most rewarding experience.
As the Grand Master has many times reminded you brethren that
it would b e well for you to review the principle tenets of Freemasonry,
so I say let us undertake a Re-examination of the Fundamentals of
Freemasonry to our dail'Y lives, whether we be teachers. public officials,

159

BROTHERLY LOVE
''By the exercise of Brotherly Love we are taught to regard
the whole human species as one family-the high and the low, the
rich and the poor-who, as created by one almighty parent, and
inhabitants of the same planet, are to aid, support and protect
each other. On this principle Masonry unites men of every country. sect and opinion; and causes true friendship to exist among
those who might otherwise have remained at a perpetual distance."
"We love because he loved us first. But if a man says, 'I love God.'
while hating his brother, he is a liar. If he does not love the brother
whom he has seen, it cannot be that he loves God whom he has not seen.
And indeed this command comes to us from Christ himself; that he who
loves God must also love his brother." I John 4: 19-21
We know what Brotherly Love means, although it is most difficult
of definition. Imperfect it may be in its manifestations, and not always
displayed by us; yet it is the cement which hold<s together the social
edifice of this world.
Brotherly Lov.e is the divine element that advances society; it is the
solar ray that brightens the heavens, thaws the ice-bound districts.
vitalizes its soil, and quickens its germs of life. Love breaks the seal of
the apocalyptic books, and leads all the powers of the soul to join in
their hallelujahs.
Masonry is Brotherly Love. It is the heart of a system of principles
which underlie the w hole fabric of Freemasonry. Heaven-taught
brotherly love has been the distinguishing characteristic of every true
Mason from time immemorial, and should continue to be so characteristic
of Masons that the enemies of Masonry should be compelled to say
now, as did the enemies of the Christian believers of old : "Behold how
they love one another."
Brotherly Love is a task, a kingly task-quite the greatest, the most
important, inside the whole compass of life. Just as man must be in right
relation with the food he eats in order to maintain health, ·s o must he
likewise be in right relation to his fellows if he would live in happiness.
Practical men of affairs are today thinking of brotherhood in terms
of cooperation, and this is perfectly legitimate. Freemasonry is organized
cooperation. Because we can do together what we could never do alone,

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

men are drawn together in this great fraternity not only to promote the
practice of brotherhood in their own lives, but also in the life of the
whole world.

each of these points communicated to you in such impressive manner
and under such circumstances, calls for a pledge to service on behalf of
your brethren in order to prove yourself one of them?
. E ach of these points signifies a service of brotherly love, or charity,
m .t~e best .and. broadest sense of the word. When we are filled with the
spmt that msp1res us to. travel out of the way to aid and serve a needy
brother. to remember him and his welfare in our prayers, to share his
h~pes ~nd .fear~ an~ be ever ready to lend a helping hand, and to counsel
with. him m his trials. and per~lexities, then indeed we are givmg to
chanty a true Masonic exemplrfication.
. The ~ason w.ho cultivates a habit of brotherly love will have no
difficulty m follo~mg the dictates of his heart in the practice of number~
less acts of aff ect1onate good will which will be most welcome to those
whom they affect, and which will cheer his own life.

The spirit of fraternalism. in all its aspects, is a spirit of cooperation.
There can be no constructive progress without cooperation. There can
be no cooperation without proper regard for duly constituted authority
which is the very cornerstone of the social compact. If. therefore, the
Masonic Order is to fulfill its high mission as the great exponent of
brotherhood. every Freemason must be taught not only to be a lawabiding citizen, but that he must cast his influence on the side of law
and order.
Wherever in the world there is a lodge of Freemasons, there should
be a focus of civilization, a center of the idea of fraternity, making for
the peace and ha rmony that should prevail in this great lodge of the
world.
I like to think that our Fraternity is a sort o f great school in which
men learn brotherly love by practicing it toward Masons, because he
who begins by practicing it toward his brethren will come sooner or later
to practicing it everywhere.
Masonry teaches Brotherly Love. This is one of its leading lessons.

It is this which has given it a place among the social organizations of
the past and present ages, which has reared its temples among all
nations, and scattered the seeds of civilization and progress over the
surface of the globe. It is this which brings peace. harmony and decorum
to our Lodges; which banishes the talebearer. censor and reviler; which
guards the character of a brother, and brands calumny and s lander as
detestable crimes. It is this which brings to a common altar the
Israelite, the Christian. the Mohammedan and the Hindu, and joins
their hands in the strong grip of a Master Mason. It is this which exalts
society, disarms feuds and sectional hatred; which cements republics,
and produces international comity. It is this which ma kes Masonry the
world's great peacemaker.
Do you who have joined Masonry realize tha t each and every step,
obligation and lesson you have experienced has been personal. in that it
is you who have professed your faith in our principles and teachings.
and you who have solemnly promised, in the name of God , to perform
those duties of moral and material assistance to your brethren. to those
of their household, and to the whole human family?
Do you recall the lesson that you might some time become entirely
dependent upon the benevolence of others? Do you realize that you
have specifically obligated yourself to assist your brethren, their widows
and orphans? Do you feel the tremendous significance of the inter~
pretation of the " five points of fellowship?" ls it fixed in your mind that

161

RELIEF
"To ~elieve the distressed is a duty incumbent on all men ,
?ut. particularly . on ~asons, who are linked together by an
indissoluble. chain. of sm~ere .affection. To soothe the unhappy,
to. sy.mpath1ze with their misfortunes, to compassionate their
~1senes, and .to r~store peace to their troubled minds. is the great
aim w.e have Jn view. o~. this basis we form our friendships and
establish our connection.
" F.o r when I was hungry, you gave me food; when thirsty, you gave
me drmk; when I was a stranger you took me into your home, when
na.ked you c~o~hed me; when I was ill you came to my help, when in
~nson you v1s1ted me. Then the righteous will reply, 'Lord, when was
it that we saw you hungry and fed you, or thirsty and gave you drink
a stranger a?d to~k y~u home, or naked and clothed you? When did
we see ~ou 111 or m pnson, and come to visit you?' And the king will
answer, I tell you this: anything you did for one of my brothers here
however humble, you did for me.' " Matthew 25: 35-40
'
Masonic relief is not to be measured by the natural sympathy of
brethren ~or brethren in distress, but by a far higher and more enobling
rule,. gratitude to the Great Architect of the Universe for the many
mercies and blessings which He has most undeservedly bestowed u
us. Under this rule Masonic relief becomes an expression of Mas:~~
love of the Father and Giver of All. What can we do for Him wh h
done and .is doing so much for us is the question the true Mason s~our~
ask. He is th~ possess?~ of all things. He needs nothing. All we can
do, therefore, m recognition of His goodness towards us, is with grateful
hearts to bestow some of His gifts to us upon our distressed Breth
who, like us, recognize His Fatherhood. The hand that 1·s
· dre?·
th ks ..
h Id be
raise m
an g1vmg s ou
opened in relief. But let us remember that this

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

relief which we are thus to bestow upon our distressed Brethren is ~ot
simply the gift of money, food or clothing, but the Masonic rule requires
us to devote one-third of our time to the service of God and of ~ worthy
distressed brother. Mind you. not to the relieving him of hts act~al
bodily wants, but the service of a worthy distressed brot.~er. T~at servtce
is not performed by the gift of a few dollars, nor by thro';mg to the
poor dog a bone," but requires at our hands remembrance ~n personal
devotion, personal sympathy. spiritual comfort and consolat1?n. a s ":ell
as bodily relief. and the satisfying of physical :-rants.' Thus, it is_fittmg
and proper that we maintain our Hornes at Umon City and Covma.
The distressed brother, the bereaved widow, the desolate orphan.
are the brightest jewels in the Masonic crown. They are our depende~t
wards, our precious heritage, and we must not, under ~u: solemn o?Iigations. we dare not, overlook or despise the blessed privilege of domg
them good.
The true Mason must be and must have a right to be content with
himself: and he can be so only when he lives not for himse!f alone, b~t
for others also, who need his assistance and have a da1m upon his
sympathy.
True charity cannot be expressed by occasional almsg~ving, but by
consistent and continued benevolence in thought and action that will
influence us to view with sympathy the conditions of our brethren,
rejoice in their welfare, endeavor to share thei: s~rrows and m~r~ase
their joys. Our monitors refer to the t~net of .reh~f m these words. To
soothe the unhappy. to sympathize with their misfortunes, to compa~­
sionate their miseries and to restore peace to their troubled min~s'. is
the great aim we have in view." Not a word in this about g1~mg
money, but everything to indicate the value of th~ pers~nal equation.
Our best and noblest acts of charity are often the little nameless,
unremembered things," in that they promote within us the growth of a
generous and benevolent spirit that helps ourselves a s well as others .
"Go, break to the needy sweet charity'.g brea d
For giving is loving," the Angel said.
"And must I be giving again and a gain?"
1My peevish and pitiless answer ran.
"Oh, no," said the Angel. piercing me throu~~·
"Just give till the Master stops giving to you.
A careful study of these words is a ll the guide any Master Maso~.
no matter how experienced, really needs to point the way to Masomc
relief.
Masonry is not per se a benevolent organizati.on. It was ?ot formed
for the purpose of mutual relief from pecuniary d~stre.ss , and its finances
are neither ga thered nor managed with that end m view.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163

Masonry is something much greater; it ministers to a man's heart
and mind, rather than to his body.
The greatest charity which Mas onry has fo r its members is charity
of thought; the greatest relief it can render is relief of th e spirit.
TRUTH
"Truth is a divine attribute and the fou ndation of every virtue.
To be good and true is the fir·s t lesson we are taught in Masonry.
On this theme we contemplate, a nd by its dictates endeavor to
regulate our conduct. Hence, while influenced by this principle,
hypocrisy and deceit are unknown among us; sincerity and plain
dealing distinguish us, and with hear t and tongue, we join in
promoting each other's welfare and rejoicing in each other's
prosperity."
The cornerstone of the Ma·s onic structure is Truth.
The truths of Freemasonry are purposely veiled in allegory a nd
symbol, and their deeper meanings do not appear upon the surface of
the ritua l. Our ceremonies are full of cunningly hidden suggestions of
these immortal truths-so much <SO that one is almost inclined at times
to claim for Freemasonry an inspiration from the Great Architect
Himself.
The symbols and ceremonies of Freemasonry have more than one
meaning. They rather conceal than disclose the truth. They hint it only ,
at least; and their varied meanings are only to be discovered by reflection
and study. Truth is not only symbolized by light, but as the ray of light
is separable into different rays of different colors, so is truth separable
into kinds. It is t~e province of Masonry to teach all truths-not moral
truth alone, but political and philosophical, and even religious truth . so
far as concerns the great and essential principles of each.
What is truth? If we could answer that question we could be gods ,
a nd kn ow the secrets of the universe. Truth is the great object of
Masonic study-the age long ques t of man. It is the reward promised
to those who are faithful, when their spiritual temple is completed.
"Truth," said one of the most ancient Indian sects of philosophers.
"is the Eternal Attribute of G od," and this expression has been han ded
down to us through the long succession of ages in the lessons of
Freemasonry, wherein we are taught, "Truth is a divine attribu te and
the fou ndation of every virtue."
" It is no proof of a man's understanding to be able to affirm
whatever he pleases: but to be able to discern that what is true
is true, and that wha t is false is false, this is the mark of intelligence." Swedenborg
Moral truths are distinguished from other tr uths by a singular characteristic ; so soon as we perceive them, they appear to us a s the rule
of our conduct.
The doctrines of Masonry are the most beautiful that it is possible

164

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to imagine. They breathe the simplicity of the earliest ages, animated
by the love of a martyred God. That word which the Puritans translated
" Charity," but which is really "Love," is the keystone which supports
the entire edifice of this mystic science. Love one another. teach one
another. help one another. That is all our doctrine, all our science, all
our law. We have no narrow-minded prejudices; we do not debar from
our society this sect or that sect; it is sufficient for us that a man worships God, no matter under what name or in what manner. Ah!, rail
a gainst us, bigoted and ignorant men, if you will. Those who listen to
the truths which Masonry inculcates can readily forgive you. It is
impossible to be a good Mason without being a good man.
"Today's challe nge, then, to our Fraternity is to apply more completely its principles within our ranks; that duty we owe to God, that
loyalty we owe to our country; that fellowship we owe to our neighbor
and brother. That doctrine, in real action, will influence scores of others
beyond the boundaries of our organization, not only of the present
generation, but also the coming generation. We are charged to assume
that leadership.
'We are all blind until we see
That in the human plan
Nothing is worth the making if
It does not make the man.
'Why these cities glorious
If man unbuilded goes?
In vain we build the world unless
The builder also grows.' "
The Grand Oration was received with a standing ovation.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to have printed
copies of the oration made available to the members of G rand Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The Columbia Masonic Temple Committee met four times this year
at the Columbia Temple to make plans for the Columbia Temple Museum.
During the past year the Columbia T emple was used for meetings by
a group of Rainbow Girls. a group of DeMolay Boys and also by twelve
Masonic Lodges.
We recommend that the Rainbow Girls and DeMolay boys be
granted the use of the Temple on week-day nights for a charge of Five
Dolla rs.
We a lso recommend that the salary of our custodian be increased
from Four Hundred T wenty Dollars to Five Hundred Dollars per year.
With the excellent help of Brother Buck R. N elson, Restoration Architect of Columbia State Park, and of Brother Howard Van Kessel,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

165

Tuolumne County Fair Display Agent. ~Jans have been formulated and
bids submitted by contractors for the proiect.
PROPOSED BuDGET FoR T HE COLUMBIA MASONIC T EMPLE
The following are bids received from contractors on ~he vario~s
items to remodel and set up the first floor of the Columbia Masomc
Temple into a Masonic M useum :
1. F or putting exterior keyed locks on the westerly ~nd
easterly Iron D oors on the South ground floor . changmg
the lock on the wood between the lobby and Museum,
putting bars on the two large windows and bath room
window on the North wall. putting bars on the basement vents ( 5 ea.). building two " Bubbles" on the westerly and easterly openings W /wainscot 42" high w/5'
of crystal glass and boarded off at the top of g.lass to
hide lighting to be installed, to seal .o~ all opem~gs to
prevent dust from entering room, building ~ ea. display
cases with molded tops to display the small items and to
hold the legends for the room d isplays and painting.
Max Keller, Contractor - Lump Sum.·.:·············;;$1.1 70.00
bubblelsl)
2. Electrical Service run to top and lower part odf 10
. sma
to plug in 20 ea. spot lights ( 10 large an
170.00
with keyed switches to accessible a rea for opertmg.
Clink Electric, Contractor - Lump Sum ............
3. Relief Map showing location s of hlodges along the
Mother lode area and information of t eir status:
Margaret Lang. Historian - L~mp Su~1L............ 200.00
4. Interpretative service of layout, material relative to set.
ting up display, etc.
Howard Van Kessel, Tuolumne County Fair
Display Agent.............·--·····-························:··· 1.000.00
5. Burglar Alarm Service to protect the valuable matenal
.
that will be on display here:
Sierra Alarm Co. - Bill Dorsett Ins tallation...... 105.45
Monthly RentaL ....... $8.00
$2.645.45
PROPOSED BUDGET FOR 1965-1966
Improving and remodeling of first floor.................................. $2,645.45
Utilities .................................................. $305.00
M iscellaneous Supplies .......................... 265.00
Custodian's Salary.................................. 500.00
1, 166.00
Burglar Alarm.......................................... 96.00
Total ··-·········-····-································-····-··················-·····-·$3,811 .45

166

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Since it has been ascertained from records kept by the State. that a
million people visit Columbia State Park each year, and since we feel
that our displays would be interesting and informative to so many, we
urge that our budget be accepted. and that our request for appropriations
be referred to the Finance Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM D. ARCHER
A. T. KrERSCH
DONALD M. STEWART, JR.

GEORGE A. JuRGENS
JOHN A. KIRBY

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON SOJOURNERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The year of 1965 has been a very encouraging year for your Committee. The program that was initiated last year has received added
momentum and a total of 922 Sojourners affiliated with our Lodges from
other Jurisdictions, an increase of 69 over last year. This is the greatest
number of Sojourner affiliations recorded since separate statistics have
been maintained. Incidentally, there were 1,438 California Masons who
affiliated within the Jurisdiction.
The Sojourners, M aster Masons from other Jurisdictions, are with
us in ever increasing numbers. The task of locating them and bringing
them into the fold of California Masonry offers a great and a year round
challenge to each and every one of us. This challenge, if accepted with
imagination and enthusiasm, can produce very satisfying and lucrative
results. Just think, last y ear our 922 affiliates contributed $23.050 to our
Homes and nearly $3.800 in per capita taxes to the Grand Lodge. In
each succeeding year this same number will pay a minimum of $14,000
in Lodge d ues. the annual per capita tax and an untold sum in contributions to the Home Endowment Fund.
The 1965 program was a continuation of the one adopted last year.
It was published to all Lodges with the suggestion that each Master
implement the program and initiate plans to aggressively:
Seek out the Sojourner and extend him a cordial invitation to visit;
Develop and present interesting and instructive programs;
Insure that the visitor is given a friendly greeting and is made to feel
that his visit was worth while;
Follow up the visit with a personal contact and a friendly invitation
to return;
Extend a sincere and friendly invitation to participate fully in California Masonry by affiliation.
My thanks to the Grand Master for his assistance in drafting the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

leaflet " Participation." Copies have been made available to all Lodges
and it has been very well received. A copy given to a Sojourner, coupled
with a friendly greeting, will do much to create a favorable impression.
A second printing of 50,000 copies has been made and are available for
the asking-use them.
M a ny of our Lodges had outstanding Sojourner programs that contributed materially to our all time high. M ar Vista U.D., Newport Beach .
was outstanding with 23 affiliations. Given special mention in 1963 and
1964. the following are again cited for their affiliations: Consuelo No. 325
-8; Oak Plains No. 789-8, a nd Home No. 721-6. The following
Lodges merit special mention for their affilia tions this year: Magnolia
No. 242-11; Stanislaus No. 206-I O; Ionic No. 520--1 O; Los Angeles
No. 42-9; Menorah No. 623-9 and El C ajon Valley No. 576-8.
The outstanding Masonic District is No. 635, Newport Beach, with
34 affiliations. No. 644, La Jolla-19 and No. 638, Lemon Grove-15,
were both given honorable mention in 1963 and 1964. The following
were given special mention in 1964 and again merit a cita tion: No. 508,
Santa Barbara-18; No. 520, Burbank-17; No. 640, San Diego---16,
and No. 516, Van Nuys-15. No. 506. Santa Maria-16: No. 554, Los
Angeles-16, and No. 637, Vista-15. are added to the honor roll this
year. These affiliation records are enviable and are worthy of emulation.
The Fifth Division has the distinction of having the greatest number
of affiliations- 320. The Sixth Division is second with 286. The Sixth
Division is again dis tinguished this year by having one or more affiliates
in each of its Masonic Districts .
The attached table, marked Exhibit "A", is a tabulation of the number of affiliations by Lodges and Masonic Districts. Of particular interest
is the fact that 326 Lodges, with l, 2 or 3 affiliations each, accounted for
534 or 58 % of the total affiliations. It is the work of the many that counts.
There appears to be no good reason why the great majority of the 31 3
Lodges, that failed to secure a single Sojourner affiliation, could not add
at least one Sojourner each to full "Participation" in California Masonry.
Appended as Exhibit "B'' is a chart showing the Gain and Loss
figures from the Grand Secretary's Membership Summary to include
1965. The Net Ga in of 87. ·s hown for 1965, is a small but welcome increase over the Net Gain of 5 shown for last year. This net increase is
due primarily to a decrease in the number of withdrawals coupled with
an increase in the number Raised and the number of Sojourner Affiliations. The added interest in the Sojourner program has had a material
bearing on the Net Gain and further increases can be expected if added
effort is put into the Sojourner program to sell "Participation."
The Sojourner often asks: " Why should I affiliate? I don't like to
pay your $25 contribution to the Homes; your dues are much higher than
back home; I have a sentimental attachment to the Lodge where I was
raised.''

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

168

169

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

These reasons for non-affiliation are answerable, but many Sojourners will not listen to the answers. This is regretted. The contribution to
the Homes is essentially an insurance premium against possible adversity
in old age-especially for the widow who may be left destitute. He may
have paid a similar fee back home, but will his widow want to go back
to a Home in the cold and snow after living out here for a few years?
Too many similar cases happen each year.
Yes, our dues are higher than in many Jurisdictions, although it is
noted that many have raised their dues in recent years. Everything is
higher in California and well worth it. California offers more and one
must pay for what he gets. So, if it is a matter of cost that keeps a Sojourner from affiliation, there is not much we can do but leave that one
alone and look for others who are not so cost conscious.
The sentimental reason can readily be solved by taking a Dual
Membership. The Jurisdictions permitting this are listed on the leaflet
"Participation." With Dual Members hip the Sojourner can keep his
home ties and enjoy Masonry with us through affiliation.
The Most Worshipful William Holman. P.G.M. of Minnesota recently met a Minneapolis Mason in Santa Ana who seemed overjoyed
at meeting him and said: "I have lived here over ten years but I still
keep my membership back home. You belong to University Lodge in
Minneapolis, don't you?"
Brother Holman came right back: "No. I belong to Silver Cord in
Santa Ana and you should belong to a Lodge in California, too. I still
hold membership back there, but I belong here and you should, too."
These words of Brother Holman off er an excellent answer as to the
"why". Coming from a Past Grand Master of another Jurisdiction, his
answer presents a strong boost for affiliation.
A man who has Masonry in him and is desirous of obtaining the most
from his membership will want to BELONG where he lives so he can
participate to the fullest without the fear of being called a "free loader."
If he is only a card carrying Mason there is usually little that can be
done to convince him he should BE LONG a nd time and effort might best
be spent on more fertile soil.
During the year, your Committeemen have made numerous visitations
to promote the Sojourner program and have received many comments
a nd s uggestions. The points most generally emphasized are submitted
for your earnest consideration:
Each Master should appoint an active, energetitc Sojourner Committee to implement, develop and carry on the Sojourner program for
the Lodge. Many Masters fail to appoint such a Committee or develop
a Lodge program to attract Sojourners. An occasional social or educational program ; an open meeting with entertainment; a picnic or a dance
can do much to increase attendance as well as a ttrac t Sojourners. Such
varied programs will take imagination and effort but will produce won-

derful results. The members of your Grand Lodge Committee are available to assist you in developing a Lodge program.
A personal contact is worth many letters. A telephone committee to
contact members and Sojourners alike, for special meetings, will produce
astonishing res ults. A car pool to assist those who cannot drive at night
can also prove very helpful.
How many of us have taken the time to greet a man who wears a
M asosnic ring or pin? A friendly greeting can often develop into a true
M asonic friendship and may also develop into an affiliation. Let's keep
our eyes open and extend a friendly greeting to a stranger in our midst.
M any Sojourners state they are afraid they cannot pass an examination for admission. At times the Lodge Examining Committee endeavors
to extract the Candidate's Lecture from the applicant. This of course is
not good or necessary. Masters and Inspectors can remedy this situation
by periodic and proper instruction.
Many Sojourners, after filing an application for affiliation. have been
subjected to grillings by a Personnel Committee and have been required
to answer the full list of questions on the application form by members of
the Investigating Committee. This is considered extremely bad manners.
Reason and common sense dictate a ' 'warmer" approach. Again, proper
instruction by Masters and Inspectors can remedy this situation.
RECOMMEND that the proper conduct of an investigation by an
Examining Committee and by the members of a n Investigating Committee be covered in appropriate schools of instruction.
In many cases Grand Lodge letters asking for cooperation to seek out
the Sojourner ai;id endeavor to bring him back into "Participation" have
met with little or no response. The Sojourner program is intended to
bring back into the fold. those wandering Sojourners who have lost
contact with Masonry as well as to secure affiliations.
RECOMMEND that this matter be taken up in Schools of Instruc~
tion and that the Lodge officers be enjoined to pursue the Sojourner
program with diligence.
During the past year you r Committeemen have visited Masonic
clubs. under various names, in industry. senior citizen communities and
in cities alongside our regular Lodges. The clubs are mostly composed of
Sojourners with a sprinkling of our own members. They are basically
social in character and seem to fill a void left by our regular Lodges.
Some maintain a close liaison with the loca l Lodge and participate in its
activities.
These groups are a source of great potential strength for Masonry in
California and need only the sanction and guidance of Grand Lodge to
fill what is now a vacuum and to attract many into "Participation" tha t
otherwise would be lost to the Fraternity.
RECOMMEND that the Grand Master have this ma tter of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

170

"Masonic Clubs" studied with the purpose of adopting regulations that
will recognize these social organizations, as Masonic in character, and
give them support, recognition and guidance.
Your Committee feels that the funds appropriated in the past have
been a material aid in increasing our affiliations.
RECOMMEND that such funds, as this Grand Lodge may consider
justifiable. be appropriated for 1966 so the Committee may continue to
work for the good of Masonry in general and of this Grand Lodge in
particular.
We who have had the pleasure and privilege of working on this
Committee during the past year, desire to express our appreciation for
the opportunity to have been of service and we extend our tha nks to
those Inspectors, Lodge Officers and Lodge Committeemen who have
given us such wonderful cooperation and support. Without this "grass
roots" effort, the record achieved in 1965 would not have been possible.
Respectfully submitted,
DAVID H. BLAKELOCK
BENT. SALMON
JoHN RICHMOND
WALLACE F. P OWERS
JosEPH P. DENNEHY
JAMES
WHITE
ALVIN A. HonwEGE
JAMES L. DURNFORD
WILLIAM F. JEWETT
w. G EORGE MASSLER
GEORGE CORNWELL
MERRILL E . BALSER
CLYOE PRICKETT
EVERETT L. COYLE
GLEN E. IRWIN
JuLIAN H. L. WoLFSOHN
GEORGE
PIKE
DoN H. LAGRANGE
GEORGE H. HIMES
ROBERT A. MILLHOUSE
J. KENNETH SAVAGE
JosEPH
ROBERTS
LEO B. MARK
Loms CHAPO
WILLIAM w. PITKIN

c.

171

EXHIBIT "A"
SOJOURNER AFFILIATIONS

Number
by
EACH LoDGE LISTED
23 Mar Vista U.D.
11 242.
10 206. 520.
9 42, 623.
8 325, 576, 789.
7 262, 518, 529, 561,666.
6 120, 192. 220. 328. 357, 615,
652. 721, 805.
5 14, 35, 243. 296. 341, 346,
106, 421 , 441, 547, 620. 687,
701 , 704, 710.
1 104, 134. 272, 293 , 300, 302.
323, 366, 368. 372. 521. 564 .
632. 633, 639. 671 , 708, 713 ,
728, 736, 737. 741. 745, 746,
755, 758. 769, 771. 776, 815,
Land U.D .. Gateway U.D.

3

w.

s.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
2
l

0

64, 68 . 136, 167, 168, 191,
207, 214. 218. 226, 254, 314,
327, 332. 347, 389, 397, 400.
404 , 407, 445. 467, 487, 494,
505, 542.'565. 592. 612 . 616.
626. 657, 660. 667, 672. 674 ,
680. 682. 691, 712. 716, 726.
732. 735, 744, 747, 750, 751,
756, 768, 775. 794. 802, 806.
811. 813. 816.
By each of 94 Lodges.
By each of l 75 Lodges.
By each of 313 Lodges.

922

T OTAL AFFILIATIONS

1.3

Average Affiliations per
Lodge.

Note : The Sojourner Affiliations
lis ted on this tabulation refer to affiliations of Master
Masons from other Jurisdictions only.

N umber
by EACH DISTRICT LISTED
34 *635.
19 *644.
18 *508.
17 *520.
16 *506. 554, ·610.
15 516. *637,638.
14 *364, *512, *538.
13 406.
12 *366. *367, *510, 568, *596,
*639.
11 218,322.556, 642.
I 0 368, 522. *6M , *618. *622.
629.
9 *356, 392.524. *576. *624.
8 *219. *314 , *504 , 532. *566.
*592, 594, 605 , 608, 610.
616. 632. *634.
7 310. *318, 361, 394. *518.
536, 560. 584. *609, 625,
630.
6 320.352, 370.388.574, *602,
606, *636.
5 110.220. 226,316, *384,418,
528,530, *534,558,564.582.
588 , 620, 628.
4

3
2
1

0

By each of 11 Districts.
By each of 18 Districts.
By each of 22 Districts.
By each of 19 Districts.
By each of 30 Districts.

Note : D istricts marked with an *
had l or more affiliations in
each of their several Lodges.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

172

GRAND LOJX;E OF CALIFORNIA

173

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
MASONIC INFORMATION

EXHIBIT "B"

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Masonic Information Committee has held two meetings this past
year, a fact which in itself should be worthy of reporting to this body.
Such has never happened before. Similar meetings are planned for the
coming year.
I might mention that the recommendations which are made in this
report are the result of these meetings. All recommendations are the
result of Committee action .
Our first consideration was on the matter of a policy recommendation
covering the handling of public media releases. Our Committee recommends that these be on a local level wherever and whenever possible. We
feel that. with the possible exception of such purely statewide matters as
the Grand Lodge Communication, for example, that contact with the
press and radio, and the preparation of releases to all media, should be
in the hands of the constituent Lodges.

8000

""t-'....>....:l~~~~........., 6237
6ooot-----t--=---"-t-~~---jf--~~-+-~~--+~-""....,.._f--~-4--l-~~~

l - - + - - l - - - - i 5875
~/ J

5000
>-

"'<t
t

::>

"' 4000
~

--- --

-----

"'"' 3000

w

~
~

2000

_.

OE~THS

R•ISED

::i::

- -- ,..,,.

THORAWALS

COl"PARISON
or
GAINS AND LOSSES
SHOWING EFFECTS or
SOJOURNER AFFILIATIONS

ANNUAL RETURNS

With this in mind, the Committee has prepared and sent to the
Masters of all constituent Lodges two publications to serve as a guide in
the preparing and placing of news releases. The first publication is one
which was written by our present Grand Master several years ago. the
one entitled "If Freemasonry Is Good, Let Us Talk About I t." The
points stressed in this booklet, that all stories be prepared and judged on
the basis of Oigpity. Quality and Substance, are ones that should govern
all our contact with the public. and media serving the public.
The second booklet was written by Brother William R. Latta. a
public relations counsel in Southern California, and one of the founders
of our Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles. He is also a past president of
that organization. The title of his booklet is "Let's Talk About Freemasonry.'' and. in very brief form, outlines how the objectives enunciated
in the firs t booklet might best be accomplished. It is hoped that the
Mastef\s, and the Wardens, of all our constituent Lodges will read both
these booklets carefully.
During the coming year. the Committee proposes the publication of
a third booklet, this one consisting of a number of carefully prepared
and thoroughly edited sample news s tories. These. we hope, might serve
as a guide, in the preparation of your news stories. A special subcommittee of professional news men is preparing this guide for you. We
hope to have it ready at an early date.
The Masonic Information Committee, in cooperation with the two
Masonic Press Clubs. is proposing to hold a Public Information Con fer-

ence early in 1966. Outstanding leaders in the field of Public Relations
would be invited to speak to the conference, and thus, as is our aim,
assist in more clearly directing our own efforts in the path of Dignity,
Quality and Substance.
The Committee wishes to express its appreciation to the Grand
Master for his understandi ng of our problems, and to the Grand Secretary and his staff for the assistance given us over the past year. It is
hoped that next year's Committee will enjoy the same cooperation.
Before closing, the Committee is reminded of a joint meeting which
was held this past year, at which representati ves of the Education.
DeMolay. Public Schools Week. and Constitution Observance Committees attended. It is our feeling that this was most helpful. and that
they shou Id be continued.
Respectfully submitted ,
WILLIAM H. ADAMS
HAMILTON HINTZ
WILMER G. BRILL
SCHAFER
WALTER
KERN H. COPELAND

c.

175

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

174

ROGER E. BUTLER
No'RMAN RoDERT DAVIS
GLENDALL W. McDERMOT T
HUGH J. CAMERON
JARRETT
WILLIAM E.

s.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON INSURAN CE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Recently the Insurance Committee reviewed the insurance program
of Grand Lodge including constituent Lodges where the latter are included under blanket policies of Grand Lodge and also the insurance on
the Masonic Homes and Club Houses.
We find the insurance policies and system for handling this program
are in good order.
For further reduction in cost to all Lodges, particularly in the Public
Liability area, we are hopeful that the very few Lodges which have not
availed themselves of this broad blanket protection will do so ju st as soon
as possible.
Also the suggestion that one day the billing of premiums on a per
capita basis may be possible is a good one. Such a service would eliminate volumes of paper work for all the Lodges.
We received fine cooperation from the Secretary's office.
Respectfully submitted,
T. JAMES CARLILE
ALLERTON B . EBERT

At '4:30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a .m. Wednesday .

IN GRAND LODGE
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1965
was called on, the Grand M aster preLodge
At 9:30 a.m. Grand
Worshipful Garey B. Weibel. Master
by
raised
was
session
This
siding.
of Leland Stanford Lodge No. 78'1. The Grand Chaplain delivered the
invocation. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, October 12, were read and approved.
MORNING SESSION -

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON CREDENT IALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report covering
the I 16th Annual Communica tion of this Grand Lodge.
First, we desire to express our appreciation for the assistance and
cooperation given to us by the Grand Secretary. the Assistant Grand
Secretary and their staff. as well as that of the Building Manager and
the Grand Tiler. Without this cooperation our chore would have been
more difficult.
The Committee is again indebted to Brother Kirby C. Serles. Executive Secretatry of the Long Beach Masonic Board of Relief, for assisting
in registering the Inspectors during their school of instruction.
We respectfully report that of the 706 chartered Lodges 697 are
represented. Three of the three Lodges under dispensation are represented. The total registration is made up as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers............................................... ............................. 28
Past Grand Masters.............................................................................. 13
2
Past Grand Lecturers.... ........................................ ................................
Officers and Representat ives ................................................................ 1482
P as t M asters, including the following: ................................................1171
Inspectors ...................... 168
Committeem en .............. 172
Secretaries ............. ......... 198
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions................... ................ ............... 11
1
Grand Secretaries from other Jurisdictions....................................... ...
Jurisdictions
Grand Officers and Past Masters of other
1
(Including 2 Pas t Grand Masters)................................................
1
........
....................
....................
....................
....................
Guests
Special
TOTAL ···························································· ·························-···2716
Master Masons (including 80 Secretaries) .......................................... 503
GRAND TOTAL •..•...•....••.••.•• •....•..•.•...••••.. . ..•..•. .••.••..•..•...•.•.. ••..•. 3219
Respectfully submitted,
Tttos. F. MA SON
DoN E. BERRY
HARRY F. LUTTICKEN
HALL
LYLE

c.

w.

TREFTS
EMIL
WM . REX H OOVER
REYNOLDS
R OBERT

w.

177

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF M E MBERS

Lodge. or the Elected Representattive of your Lodge. the Pay of Members Committee would like to urge you to pick up your check.
Arrangements have been made so that those who desire to cash
their checks may do so at the U nited California Bank, Fairmont Hotel.
Your Grand Lodge credentials will serve as suitable identification.

176

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the l l 6th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master. or in his
absence the ranking Warden , or in the absence of the Master and
Wardens. the duly elected Representative; each Inspector, provided he
is reported present on the certificate filed with the Committe on Pay of
Members by the Grand Lecturer: Past Grand Masters; Officers o f the
Grand Lodge; Chairmen of Committees enumerated in Section 192 of
the California M asonic Code; members of the following Committees:
Jurisprudence; Policy and General Purposes; Grievances; Finance;
Credentials; Pay of Members; Charters; By-Laws; Correspondence;
Lodge Financing; and Code Commission who are actually in attendance
at Grand Lodge; and who comply with all provisions as noted in Section
176 of the California Masonic Code.
Mileage from the various points within the State of California to
San Francisco has been taken from the published records of the California State Automobile Association. Mileage from points in the State
of Hawaii to San Francisco has been taken from the published records
of air lines. in accordance with Section 174, California Masonic Code.
No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco, or the
immediate vicinity. Compensation of members from the State of California has been computed on the basis of seven ( 7) cents per mile, the
rate fixed by the Committee on Finance. Compensataion of members
from the State of H awaii has been figured on the basis of the published
first class round trip air rate of regularly scheduled major air lines, from
Honolulu to San Francisco, plus inter-island air fare to H onolulu when
necessary.
The payroll has been checked with the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentia ls, and the amounts required
to meet the tranportation costs for the 1965 Annual Communication are
as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers......................................... ......................... $ 970.95
497.14
Past Grand Masters....·---·-----·--··-··--··------·-------------·-·-··-··------------Inspectors .................................................................................... 6,514.29
Committees .................................................................................. 1.714.58
Representatives of Lodges ............................................... ........... 27,047.08
$36,744.04
Checks will be ready for distribution at the Registration Desk on
Friday morning immediately following the election of the Junior Grand
Warden. Brethren, if you are the Master, or Warden representing your

Respectfully submitted,
MATTHEW M . CoDoN
WILLIAM D. KNIG HT
BACIGALUPI
JOHN
BERT MENGE
ARCHER R. RICHARDSON
WA RD H . F IGGINS
CAVEN
WILLIAM

v.

J.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRlEVANCES

To the Most Worshipful Grand l odge F. & A . M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances reports as follows: Fifty-five trial
records have been referred to our Committee and thirty-four of them ·
are considered in this omnibus report. T he others will be covered by
special reports which will be given by members of the Committee. In
Trial Record No. 1819 the accused has died: this proceeding is dropped.
Once more we urge the Lodges to see that copies of charges filed
are sent a t once to the Grand Secretary, and that forms £or proceedings
be obtained from him. All the trial for ms which are in the main book
of the Masonic Code have been repealed and the ·s tandardized forms
furnished by the Grand Secretary should be used.
Another thing we notice yea r after year is that charges are filed
with a Master and he then puts in some time "investigating" them
and finally the procedure set forth in the Code is followed with t he
result that the record comes to Grand Lodge months after the filing of
the charges.
When charges are fi led with a Master and they state a Masonic
offense he should proceed at once as directed by our Code. An unpleasant job should be done as promptly as possible.
In Trial Reco rds Nos. 1816 , 1843, 1844, 1845, 1846, 1847, 1848.
1849. 1850. 1851, 1852. 1853. 1854. 1855. 1856, 1857. 1858. 1860. 1861,
186 2. 1863, 1864, 1865. 1866, 1868. 1870, 1871, 1872, 1873. 1874, 1876,
1877. 1878 and 1879 we find that proper procedure has been followed,
that the results are supported by the record in each case. and that there
a re no miscarriages of justice. (NO TE: R eference is made to Exhibit C
of the Report of the Grand Secretary which lists each of the trial records
reviewed by the Committee on Grievances.)
Deeming themselves disqualified, Brothers Emerson and Mc~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

178

179

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Courtney did not participate in the discussions or decisions in Trial
Records Nos. 184 7 and 1861 respectively.
We off er the following resolution:
RESOLVE D: That in each of the trial records above-ment ioned
the action taken and the result thereof be ratified. approved and confirmed.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORDS NOS. 1052, 1469, 1554, 1637,
1649, 1652, 1675, 1703, AND 1754
Petitions for restoration have been referred to the Committee on
Grievances in the foregoing trial records.
Petitioner in Trial Record No. 1469 has withdrawn his petition.
These petitions are supported by letters of recommenda tion. usually
from friends of the petitioner, and in most cases we have some information as to the feelings of the former Lodges of these petitioners.
As pointed out in our reports many times in the past, restoration
by Grand Lodge does not restore a petitioner to membership in a Lodge.
but only to the rights and privileges of Masonry in general. and the
petitioner becomes a Mason at large. similar in status to one who has
taken a dimit from a Lodge. To gain membership he must petition some
Lodge for affiliation. (not necessarily his former Lodge). and be
elected by unanimous vote.
We therefore often recommend restoration by Grand Lodge so that
the petitioner may subject his desire for membership to the Lodge of
his choice, and we trust that our recommenda tion will not prevent
that Lodge making the usual investigation of the applicant.
Where it seems apparent that the petitioner could not be affiliated
with his former Lodge that factor tends to lead us to deny restoration
by Grand Lodge.
We have carefully considered all the files and we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D : That the petitions for restoration in the following
trial records be granted:
No. 1554, Mendocino Lodge No. 179.
No. 1649, Sequoia Lodge No. 349.
No. 1652, The Gardens Lodge No. 621.
No. 1675, Garvanza Lodge No. 492.
No. 1703, Monte Vista Lodge No. 655.
and that the petitions in the following trial records be denied:
No. 1052, Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458.
No. 1637, Inglewood Lodge No. 421.
No. 1754, Inglewood Lodge No. 421 .
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1842
The accused of San Buenaventu ra Lodge No. 214 was charged
two separate times in the Justice Court of Ojai Judicial District with
the crimes of issuing checks with insufficient funds on deposit and
failure to provide for his wife and family, both charges being misdemeanors, and in each case he pleaded guilty. Thereafter he was
charged in his Lodge with unmasonic conduct. The specifications of the
charge allege specifically that he pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor
charges.
The accused wrote an equivocal letter in answer to the notice sent
to him by the Master of the Lodge in which he admitted the plea of
guilty to the misdemeano rs but attempted to explain the reasons therefor. The Trial Master treated the letter as a plea of guilty and the
accused was found guilty of unmasonic conduct without trial and
suspended.
The specifkation s were improper in that the specifk acts of issuing
checks without sufficient funds and failing to support his family should
have been alleged as those are the acts of unmasonic conduct, pleading guilty to misdemeano r charges is not. The accused admitted only
the pleas of guilty and not the acts which would indicate he did not
have an opportunity to enter the proper plea.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D: That the purported suspension of the accused in
Trial Record No. 1842 be reversed and set aside and the matter remanded to the Lodge with direction to proceed to have charges and
specifications prpperly set forth and proceedings taken thereon.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1859
A member of Traver Lodge No. 294 was charged with improper
and lewd conduct with several young girls. He pleaded not guilty in
the Lodge and a commission met to try him. He appeared before the
meeting of the commission and stated that he was being accused for
improper motives but partially admitted the facts. He said he would
not appear at the trial and left the place. Witnesses were sworn a nd
supported the charge. Accused was found guilty and ordered suspended.
Our committee feels that conduct such as was proved at the trial
in this case merits expulsion.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D: That the finding of guilt in Trial Record No. 1859
be approved but that the penalty be raised to expulsion and that accused is hereby expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

180

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF Cl\LIFORNI A

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1867

and was committed to a correction al institution . N otice of intended
expulsion under Section 732 C.M.C. was given by the Lodge. The
accused wrote a letter d emanding a Masonic Trial and pleaded not
guilty. Trial was set for July 22. 1965. The accused wrote a number
o f letters stating that he would be released from the correction al institution the forepart of Septembe r and asking that the trial be continued for sixty days until Septembe r 23 so that he could personally
appear and present facts showing his innocence . H is request was
denied and at the trial he was not present or represente d. T he only
evidence was certified copies o f his conviction in the state courts and
he was found guilty and the sentence was expulsion.
He has appealed and personally appeared before your Committe e.
It appears that the accusation s grew out of matrimonial difficulties of
the accused. It also appears that the rules of the correction al institution
prevented his writing any statement of facts justifying his conduct or
proving the contrary.
While it is a general rule that the date of a trial is set for the convenience of the Commissi oners and the Trial Masters. and that the
Lodge does not have to wait until the accused is released from a correctional institu tion. reasonable continuan ces should be allowed under
Section 719 C.M.C. It is the opinion of the Committe e that under the
circumstan ces of this particular case the request of the accused for a
continuan ce of sixty days to enable him to present his defense was
reasonable and should have been granted. We therefore present the
following resolution :
RESOLV ED: That the purported expulsion of the accused in
Trial Record No. 1875 be reversed and set aside, and the matter
remanded to th~ Lodge with directions to proceed to retry the case
before a commission after a proper summons served on the accused.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted .

A member of San Fernando Lodge No. 343 was charged with
unmasoni c conduct in that he had written several letters and had made
numerous statement s to the general effect that the women or girls of
the Eastern Star, Job's Daughters and Rainbow Girls should let their
hair down a nd take care of the Masons sexually. This seemed to be
an obsession with him. Among others. he wrote to our Grand Secretary,
the Grand Secretary of the York Rite Bodies, and made similar statements to the Mother Advisors of the Rainbow Girls.
He pleaded not guilty and was tried by a commission. He appeared
at the trial without counsel and was given every considerat ion by the
Trial Master. He admitted writing the letters and making the statements. and persisted in his expression s of opinion concernin g the
duties of the women and girls toward all Masons.
He was found guilty and suspended .
We feel that this man has no place in Masonry. We offer the
following resolution :
RESOLV ED : That the finding of guilt in Trial Record No. 1867
be affirmed, but that the penalty be raised to expulsion and that the
accused be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1869
A member of Kit Carson Lodge No. 784 was charged with adultery
and non-suppo rt of minor children. He pleaded not guilty in the Lodge
and was tried by a commission. He was found guilty of the specifications and of unmasonic conduct and expelled.
Accused filed an appeal and, although not technically correct, we
have given it considerat ion.
The undispute d evidence supports the findings of the trial commission. The accused himself gave the informatio n for a birth certificate
of a child listing himself as the father. the mother not being his wife.
Court document s show that he was convicted of contempt for failing
to pay support for his children as ordered by a court.
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED : That the finding of guilt and the expulsion of the
accused member of Kit Carson Lodge No. 784 are ratified. affirmed
and approved.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1875
Your Committe e on Grievance s reports on Trial Record No. 1875 as
follows:
The accused, a member of Moneta Lodge No. 405, was convicted
of one count of bigamy and four counts of forgery in the state courts

c.

ALBERT
WOLLENB ERG
A.
McCouRT NEY
VARNUM PAUL

J.

181

ALBERT F. Ross
HAROLD
MORRISON
LowELL H . SucHERMA N

s.

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON RETIRE MENT PLAN
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California :
In 1954, the Retiremen t Pens ion Plan was inaugurate d fo r the
employees of the Masonic Homes of California , the Grand Lodge of
California and affilia tes, to provide a retiremen t life income for employees in addition to Social Security benefits. upon a ttaining the age of
sixty-five (65) .
The plan has certain requireme nts to be eligible for membersh ip.
The employee mus t have been in our employ for a period of two (2)
years and attained the age of thirty ( 30) years.

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

In I 964, the original plan was amended to change conditions for
early retirement from age fifty-five ( 55) plus twenty ( 20) years of
service to age fifty-five ( 55) and fifteen (I 5) years of service.
At the present time 119 employees are covered by the plan. One
hundred sixty-six are ineligible due to insufficient length of service.
The employees contribute to the plan three ( 3) percent of their
regular annual salary, a nd the employer contributes an amount to make
the plan actuarially sound. During the year 1964 the employees contributed $15,293.00. The employer contributed $44,684.00, which is
about a three to one ratio. Net investment income for 1964 amounted to
$54,942.00.
The assets have grown from a modest beginning to $744,210.00 as
of December 31, 1964.
The pension payments to retired employees, ending December 31.
1964 amounted to $10,057, covering 12 employees.
During the current year 1965. twelve ( 12) employees have already
retired, and there will be two ( 2) more eligible for retirement before
the end of the year, making a total of 14 retirees for this year.
During the year 1966, four ( 4) additional employees will be eligible
for retirement under the plan.
Respectfully submitted,
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
PHIL N. MYERS
PAUL F. PFLUEGER
REGINALD M. MILLS

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE
MASONIC CLUB AT THE UNIVERSITY
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
Your Board in submitting this report fully recognizes the success
of the Club at Berkeley is due to the combined efforts of all California
Masons, the students, and the University.
We, who are most closely associated w ith the operation of the
Clubhouse, are sincerely appreciative of the personal interest and s upport of the Grand M aster, Theodore Meriam, and the Officers of
Grand Lodge.
A foundation for evaluating the information submitted in this
report can be found in the By-laws of the Masonic Club at Berkeley.
a corpora tion in the state of California.
"The Corporation sh a ll be conducted for the exclusive benefit of
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free a nd Accepted Masons of

183

the State of California and subject to its laws, rules, and regulations.
"The purpose of the Corporation is to provide a 's ocial club for members of the student-body, faculty , and staff of the University of California, Berkeley. California, w ho are M aster Masons, their sons,
daughters. wives, and widows; also friends a nd guests as approved by
the Board of Directors."
~ur B~ard has continued to encourage and sponsor promotional
act1v1bes with the goal of increasing membership. The fall semester
1964 had a full program including a Friendship dinner. coffee hours,
a square dance. Faculty dinner. a weekend for U .C.L.A. Clubhouse
members, and a Christmas party for children. The spring semester had
theater parties, a Faculty dinner, Sunday nite suppers. and an Easter
party for underprivileged children. In addition to having the Right
Worsh~pful Myron Smith speak at the Fall Initiation and the Right
Worshipful John Porter speak at the Spring Initiation the students were
very pleased to be able to informally spend time one afternoon with
the Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam.
This last semester we have stressed the facilities available at the
Clubhouse and arranged to have resources that will attract the quality
of student we want associated with our organization. The most widely
used of these items is a set of foreign language dictionaries and
chemistry and physics handbooks. An additional help to our students
a re the two loan funds. The small loan fund for short term loans in
small amounts has been used nineteen times and the Altenberg Loan
Fund for la rger amounts has had five recipient·s this year.
Two major i;:hanges have been made by the students this last
semester: girls are now allowed in the pool room and the Student
Constitution has been updated. The significant long term changes in
the constitution are the discarding of the old pledge program for
entering students and the creation of a "Big Brother and Big Sister"
program to help get all acquainted. M embership now stands at 143.
The Masonic Club President for the fall semester, John Spencer, wrote
the following to entering students :
" I would like to welcome you to Berkeley. Cal is a w onderful school
full of learning, fun, tradition, and a tremendous place to spend your
next few years. However, with its 27,500 students. it also can be a
very lonely place. I would like to give you an opportunity to meet people, relax, and have a good time."
Roy Cross. President for the ·s pring semester, stated in his report:
"My main goal was to build up a basic foundation for the coming
fall semester.... As for improvements in the future I think a scholarship
program should be set up to promote good grades .... This would be
on the basis of grades alone with no consideration of need."
It can be stated with complete assurance that students of the

.V.

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Berkeley Clubhouse have demonstrated under disturbing local conditions that they are a select group that reflect the desirable characteristics
of a Masonic family.
We have been extremely fortunate in having the continued
enthusiastic help of Mrs. Janaice Kohl in the operation of the Clubhouse physical plant and Mrs. Mary Kierulff in the student program
and promotion. Their devotion to the success of the Clubhouse can only
lead to it being a place we are proud to maintain. We have had student
speakers at DeMolay. Job's Daughters, Rainbow, various Spring Breakfasts, and Grand Lodge Communication. Judge Condee has been exceptionally helpful in his articles appearing in the California Freemason
as have all other groups associated with Masonry who have devoted
publicity to the Clubhouse in their publications. With the spread of this
information about the Clubhouse growth of membership is bound to
follow.
Grand Lodge last year appropriated a sum of $21,350.00 for the
operation of the Clubhouse. Berkeley. from a requested budget of
$33 ,295.00 including an amount of $4.000.00 for deprecia tion. It is
the Board's understanding that this appropriation was based upon the
expectation that accumulated reserve funds held by the Board would
be used to finance some unusual costs associated with the maintenance
of the building. According to this understanding we have stayed within
the appropriation granted and committed funds from reserve of approximately $9.000.00 for foundation work. plumbing and heating
repair, and parapet repair to maintain the safety and appearance of the
Clubhouse. A copy of the accountant's report with the audit has been
given the Finance Committee. and a copy is attached.
With the continued help of Masons in California through Grand
Lodge, your Board will be certain that the Masonic Clubhouse at
Berkeley accomplishes through the students that which we all desire better men and women.
Respectfully -submitted .
1966
1965
1967

c. MELVIN DAVIS.
President
ALFRED E . HOPKINS
WALTER PROCTOR
EDWARD H. REDFORD
WALLACE E . YORK

J.

WILLIS G1LLETIE,

Vice President
PAUL

s. BOREN,

Secretary
R. c. HORSTMANN

MASONIC CLUB AT THE UNIVERSITY.
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA
BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JuLY 1966
SALARIES :

Resident Hostess....................................................................$ 3,600.00
Social Hostess........................................................................ 4,000.00
Accountant ............................................................................
600.00
Janitor and Gardener........................................................... . 1,750.00
UTILITIES :

Gas, Electric and Water......................................................
Garbage ................................................................................
Telephone ..............................................................................

1,275.00
75.00
275.00

SUPPLIES:

Janitorial ................................................................................
Garden ..................................................................................
Office and Printing ................................................................

300.00
100.00
300.00

TAXES:

Payroll ....................................................................................
Property ................................................................................

350.00
5,000.00

INSURAN CE:

Fire ..............:.........................................................................
Compensation ...................................................................... ..
Liability ··-----------------·-·····························································

294.00
94.00
217.00

BUILDING CONTENTS:

Repair Furniture....................................................................
Replace Furniture................................................................. .

500.00
1,000.00

ANNUAL CLEANING ................................. .................................... .
PROMOTION AND ADVERTISING........................................... .........
AUDIT . .............. ............... ..................... ............ ..................... ......
MISCELLANEOUS ............................................................... .......... .

500.00
2,000.00
250.00
150.00

DONALD P . HEWLETI,

Treasurer
WILLIAM T . FRIBORG,

Assistant Secretary

c. D. NIELSEN

WILLARD H . NUTTING HILLER M . REEVES
EDWARD A. REINKE
ELTON L. TURNER

Referred to Committee on Finance.

185

TOTAL ..............................................................................$22,630.00

Repair and maintenance of buildings and depreciation to come from
reserve funds.
A survey is to be made to determine necessary repairs to put the
building in first class condition.

186

REP ORT OF THE BOA RD OF DIR ECT ORS
OF THE MA SON IC CLUB
ANGELES
UNI VER SITY OF CAL IFO RNI A AT LOS
M. of California:
To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodg e F. & A.

our publicity prog ram
It is most grati fying to be able to repo rt that
ted 5'1 new mem bers
initia
ha s been successful. Our Stud ent Council
as a whole, has
bers,
mem
the
of
durin g the year and the enthu siasm
Homecoming
for
float
Our
ities.
activ
s
show n in the incre ase of the club'
First Place troph y; and
(buil t entir ely by the club mem bers) won the
st.
we won a Thir d Place troph y in the mask conte
- durin g last summer,
bers
mem
the
for
ities
activ
many
were
e
Ther
g the fall semester,
durin
lina
Cata
they had a beac h party and a trip to
Maso nic Club at
the
to
trip
usual
the
they had two formal danc es,
very succe ssful Chri stma s
Berk eley for the Cal- UCL A football game , a
don, the former Dire ctor.
party , a retire ment party for Mrs. Faith Shel
of cours e, all durin g the
the Gran d Mast er's recep tion in Marc h and,
tion. In fact, the numinitia
g
year , Sund ay supp ers and then the Sprin
ects of being conprosp
with
30%
by
ber of activities were incre ased
tinue d perm anen tly.
enco urage d by the
As we repo rted last year, we are extre mely
total membership
The
ip.
incre ase in the activities and club membersh
.
good
very
is
ase
is up and the prosp ects for furth er incre
Deat on had been emLast year we repo rted that Mrs. Blan che M.
Shel don, who retire d
Faith
Mrs.
ctor,
Dire
er
ploye d to repla ce our form
has taken hold splen didly
on service pension Dec. 31, 196'1. Mrs. Deat on
, we also lost the services
and is doing an outst andin g job. Last year
son, who resigned. We
John
of our Assi stant Direc tor, Mrs. Edith
is now deem ed neces sary
it
but
help,
to
temp orari ly employed a stude nt
Boar d has empl oyed Mrs.
to have an older perso n and, there fore. the
Carr ough comes to us
L. Carr ough to act as Assi stant Direc tor. Mrs. we feel that she will
and
with valua ble expe rienc e as a soror ity moth er
g two such expe rienc ed
be of mate rial assis tance to Mrs. Deat on. In havin
ous and expe rienc ed
graci
er
form
our
ladie s assum ing the dutie s of
and Mrs. John son. we
Dire ctor and Assi stant Dire ctor, Mrs. Shel don
and indu stry will be main feel that the same level of good fellowship
in havin g these two ladies.
taine d. The Boar d is exce ption ally fortu nate
show n on oppo site page .
is
-1966
The budg et for the fiscal year 1965
,
itted
subm
lly
ectfu
Resp
1967
1966
1965
OLL
S. Rov How ELL.
HERB ERT H. COOP ER
Pres ident
INS
FRAN K M. JENK
S MAS ON,
BATE
AN
KusM
GE
GEOR
Vice -Pre siden t
CLYD E C. SHOE MAK ER
EARL E CRAN E.
A. CURT IS SMTT H

c.

Secr etary -Trea surer

GEOR GE E. HALL
PRAN K H. REIN SCH

Refe rred to Com mittee on Finan ce.

187

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIF O RNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

THOM AS CARR
DRAK E
ELVI N
M.A . DUNC AN
PAUL R. NICH OLS
WAD E
EDW IN

c.

w.

BUD GET -196 5-19 66
MA SON IC CLUB
ANGELES
UNI VER SITY OF CAL IFO RNI A AT LOS
1965-66

1964-65
Expe nse

Salaries:
Direct or ....................$ 5,425 .00
Asso ciate direc tor .. 3,040 .00
Bldg. Assistants ...... 1,837.50
Less payro ll de ds.....

10.302 .50
1,775 .66

Ga rdeni ng and garde ning supp lies ....... .
Heat, light, water , and powe r................. .
Build ing rep airs, suppl ies and
repla ceme n ts .................. ................... .
Taxe s:
Prope rty .................... 4,013. 53
With holdi ng ............ 1,355.75
883.13
P ayrol l ................... ...

Budg et

$ 4,500.00
4,200.00
1,800.00

$ 8,526. 84

10,500.00
1,780.00

$ 8,720.00

537. 82
1,335 .04

600.00
1,350 .00

7,530 .00

6,500.00

6,252.41

4,400 .00
1,355.00
900.00

6,655.00

41 3.40
148.08
144.00
60.79
143.4 8
150.00
5.50
25.00
276.57
778.91

1,700 .00
400.00
150.00
144.00
60.00
150.00
150.00
6.00
25.00
300.00
800.00
2,959.00

Total.......... ..................................$26,327 .84

$30,669.00

Insur ance ·--······ ·············-····- ·····--··--······----··Tele ph one .................. ............................... .
News pape rs and magazines ................... .
Refu se servi ce ............................................
Office suppl ies ......... ......... ..........................
P osta ge ........................................................
Audi ting .................. ................................... .
Safe de posit box renta l......... .................. .
Fire perm it ................... .................. ............ .
Print ing and statio nery......... .................. .
Misc ellane ous ........................... ................ .
Depreci ation ......... .................................... .

only. Furnishin gs and equip Our depre ciatio n is figur ed on the build ing
year.
last
d
ment we re comp letely depre ciate
for th e associate direc tor inasWe have shown an incre ase in the salar y
tofor e we have had a stude nt
mu~h as we mus~ empl oy an older perso n. Here
b u ilding repai rs figure has
Our
ical.
pract
en
prov
ass1st~nt, and this has not
as we pla n on exten sive
uch
been ~creased over last year' s budg et inasm
teme nt for our insur ance
sta
a
ve
recei
not
did
We
electr ic work on our stage .
nt in this ye ar's budg et.
amou
ded this
cover~ge (abou t $850. 00) a nd have inclutwo
.
years
the
for
bill
a
ve
recei
We will proba bly

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPO RNIA

188

PROCE EDING S OP THE

REPO RT OF COD E COM MISS ION
rnia:
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
of the
ation
public
ized
Ten years ago this Grand Lodge author
the
hed
publis
was
e
volum
The
ated.
Califo rnia Mason ic Code Annot
Code
our
y
,
ion
unicat
Comm
uent
subseq
each
following year. and at
supple ment
Commission has been please d to report that a cumul ative
ing Compreced
the
was prepar ed and publis hed following the close of
ment
supple
r
anothe
that
report
munication. We are again please d to
ng
coveri
ion.
unicat
Comm
last
the
of
was publis hed following the close
plan
we
usual.
As
ve.
inclusi
1964
to
1957
the chang es in our law from
r supple ment
the promp t prepar ation and public ation of anothe r simila
tion.
unica
which will include the chang es made at this 1965 Comm
to cover
made
be
$150
of
riation
It is again reques ted that an approp
ission.
Comm
your
of
ses
any necess ary travel or other expen
Respe ctfully submi tted.
WILLI AM NANK ERv1s , Ja.
DAVID P. RussE LL
LURIE
LEONA RD

EoWAR D T. KoFOR D
EVERE TT HOU SER

M eeting date.
Hall on Thurs day, the first Thurs day being the Stated
ently to exact
suffici
sed
increa
not
has
The membership of this Lodge
al inquir ies
person
of
r
numbe
a
had
have
We
any increa sed rental.
Daugh ters
Job's
from Easter n Star Chapt ers. D eMola y Chapt ers, and
ore, retheref
we,
y
Ma
in regard to rentin g the fa cilities for meetin gs.
Lodge
Grand
have
time
same
the
at
quest permission to do so, and
g
bearin
be,
should
rs
chapte
these
to
costs
determ ine what the rental
also,
and
g,
meetin
per
$25
of
sum
the
pay
to
afford
t
in mind they canno
the premises
that our custod ian would ha ve to be there to open and close
for which he must be paid.
Finan ce
Now the finale of this report summ ed up is to reques t the
mus t be
which
,
$1.500
of
Comm ittee to increa se our budge t to the sum
laneou s
miscel
other
for
nd
a
salary
done in order to raise our custod ian's
mops,
s,
broom
unds,
compo
ng
cleani
,
towels
purcha ses, viz.: soap. paper
that
mind
in
bear
should
tee
ommit
C
ce
Finan
The
candle s at the altar.
se
expen
or
ment
thus far Grand Lodge has totally escaped any invest
city,
electri
water,
for
and tha t w e have never had to pay any money
tha t basis.
and varied utilities. Let us hope tha t we may continue on
Respectfully submi tted,

s.

BEN J AMIN M. WEISS
F RANK H ARWEL L, Ja.
LEO E. A N DERSON

Referr ed to Comm ittee on Financ e.

REPO RT OF SPEC IAL COM MITT EE ON
OLD MAS ONIC HAL L AT LOS ANG ELES
rnia:
To the Mo st Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo

an of the
It is my pleasu re to presen t to you my report as Chairm
you may
As
es.
Angel
Los
at
Hall
ic
Comm ittee on the Old Mason
y afterSunda
and
ay
Saturd
,
Friday
every
open
is
g
know, the buildin
the
with
lease
our
in
ed
noon. from 12 : 00 noon to 5 : 00 P .M .. as provid
This
rnia.
Califo
of
State
the
City and Count y of Los Angel es and
y Gibson . who
necess itates the emplo yment of a custod ian. Joseph Wra,
The emplo yrs.
Winte
at
195
No.
Lodge
ye
Bucke
is a memb er of our
certain that
rs
ment of this brothe r contin ues uninte rrupte d but it appea
to confor m
order
in
hour
we will have to raise his salary to $1.75 per
Congr ess
by
on
voted
was
which
to the Feder al Minim um Wage Bill
on Octob er l l, l 965.
ers of our
Durin g the past year. ending June 30, 1965, 6,370 memb
jurisdicn
foreig
Grand Lodge jurisdi ction visited the buildin g; 160 of
C ali6,456
;
States
d
Unite
the
tion; 1,650 from other Grand Lodge s in
visited
that
4,836
l
of
total
grand
a
-or
fornia and United States v isitors
of apprec iaand viewed the Old M asonic Hall with ooohs and aaahs
cash conmake
tion. The greate st percen tage of the viewe rs wishe d to
ed.
declin
s
tributi ons as admiss ion fees, which were alway
Mason ic
Plaza de Los Angel es Lodge No. 814 meets in the Old

189

Referr ed to Comm ittee on F inance .

190

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MEMORIAL SERVICE

Lodges suffered losses. Two hundred twelve Lodges lost one each;
seventy-five Lodges had two losses; twenty-one Lodges lost three; eight
Lodges lost four; and one Lodge lost five members who were members of
Grand Lodge. This year there appears to be a larger number of Lodge
Officers among those who have passed on. Nine Lodges report losing
their Masters and nine Lodges lost Wardens. The remainder of the
four hundred sixty-two were Past Masters.

Organ Prelude________________________________________ Harold Mueller, Grand Organist
Invocation ______________________________________ The Very Reverend Edgar F. Magnin
Vocal Solo_________ ···--·-· ... --·-··--- --- --- --- --·--·-·----- ------··-· _______________ A us tin Mosher
Necrology Report·------------·--··· ·············-···---------······-·········-Adam B. Morten
Eulogy-Jam es Leo HalleY---------·-·······-·····-··-··········-·--L. Harold Anderson
Eulogy-John Randle Moore.·-·············-·------···-····-···-·············Guy B. Mize
Vocal Solo ............ ________________ __ _____ _____ __________________ ____ __ _______________ _........Vocalist
Benediction. _____________________ ............... ·--··--·--·-··-···-··-··········-····Grand Chaplain
Taps---·············-----····--··········---·-··-··-···--·········Grand Organist and Vocalist

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In Masonry we are often reminded of the brevity of life and the
inevitableness of death. The "Hour-Glass" reminds us "how swiftly the
sands run, and how rapidly our lives are drawing to a close!" Man
wastes away. "Today he puts forth the tender leaves of hope; tomorrow
blossoms and bears his blushing honors thick upon him; the next day
comes a frost which nips the shoot; and when he thinks his greatness is
still aspiring, he falls like autumn leaves to enrich our mother earth." Or
::behold what havoc the scythe of time makes among the human race!"
We must soon be cut down by the all-devouring scythe of time, and be
gathered into the land where our fathers have gone before us."
While we "do not sorrow as those without hope," yet when we go
over the names of the departed as they come in from the Lodges we
cannot escape a measure of sorrow. Some of our brethren who have
gone were in the prime years of life. We reasonably hoped that they
might have been with us for many years. But "God has led our dear
ones on, and He can do no wrong." Many of our brethren whose names
appear in this report were of riper years. They labored abundantly for
many years, but now their work is done, and they are forever with their
Lord. For some the Angel of Death was indeed a kind messenger sent to
liberate them from suffering, and they are now where there is "no more
pain, neither sorrow nor crying."
All of us will know some names, and many of us will rem ember many
whose names are here. They were ·r espected men with whom we have
worked and had rich fellowship. We .are sad at the separation, yet we
are deeply thankful for the memories of shared lives and the belief that
there is a larger life beyond.
The statistics of our report are somewhat overwhelming. During the
past Masonic Year four hundred sixty-two of our members have passed
away. This number appears to be the largest in the history of this Grand
Lodge. This is what we can expect as the number of our Lodges increases
and the membership grows larger. Three hundred seventeen of our

Among the departed was one of our well known and beloved Past
Grand Masters, fohn Randle Moore. He was Chairman of the Jurisprudence Committee up to the time of his death. An eulogy for Brother
Moore will be given by Past Grand Master Guy B. Mize.

fames Leo Halley, who had served this Grand Lodge on various committees, and as a Trustee of our Masonic Homes, died on February 7,
1965. An eulogy for Brother Halley will be given by his friend, Past
Grand Master L. Harold Anderson.
Glenn C. Holmes, former Junior Grand Steward and committeeman,
was raised in the Celestial Lodge above on January 1, 1965. Glenn
Holmes was born in Marion, Iowa, on January 2, 1893, and spent the
earlier years of his life in that state. He received the degrees of Masonry
in Capital City Lodge No. 312 of Iowa and was raised a Master Mason
on May 27, 1919. Havi ng moved to California, he affiliated with Mission
Lodge No. 169 of this jurisdiction on June 1, 1932. On October 29, 1938,
he affiliated with Dos Palos Lodge (now No. 681) as a charter member,
and served that Lodge as its Master in 1941. In October, 1941. he was
appointed Junior Grand Steward by Grand Master Frank M. Smith and
served in that of6ce for one year. He served as Chairman of the Committee on Charters from 1944 to 1955. Retiring to live in Carmel. he
became a plural member of Carmel Lodge No. 680 and retained tha t
status until his death. Interested in community welfare, he was elected
Councilman of the City of Mendota and served some time as Mayor
of that city. He was interested in people, especially when there was an
opportunity to help. During World War II he and his wife opened their
home to homesick and lonely young men and women stationed at a
military base not far away. This was typical of the acts of this kindly,
good humored brother. He passed away January 1st, one day short of
his seventieth birthday, but he will live on in the hearts and minds of his
brethren, and of the many to whom he proved a helpful friend in ti mes
of need. He heeded his Master's command, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," and created kindliness in the hearts of others.
Rufus Bernhard von KleinSmid. California lost a valued elder
statesman, scholar, and educator when Doctor von KleinSmid passed
away on July 9, 1964. He was for many years the very well known and
highly respected President of the University of Southern California and
held high rank among educators in this country. He was a member of

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566, having been raised a Master Mason
on April 10, 1902. He had thus been a member of the fraternity for over
sixty-two years. He had served as Grand Orator of this Grand Lodge.
Doctor von KleinSmid lived a long life, rich in great achievements. He
contributed much to the life of his fellow men. and he will live on in the
lives of many students who came under his influence and others who had
close association with him. We honor his memory and are proud that he
was a member of our fraternity.

Milton Ho{fe Sharp, for many years Inspector of the 210th District,
passed away December 12, 1964. Brother Sharp was a member of
Buckeye Lodge No. 195, having been raised in that Lodge on May 13,
1943. He went through the chairs and served as Master of his Lodge;
after which, on February 1, 1954, he was commissioned Inspector of the
210th District. He served in that position until March, 1964, for over
ten years. For faithful service, and work well done, we pay our tribute
of respect to our departed brother.
Isaac M cGu ffin, one of our older members, was gathered to his
fathers on January 27, 1965. Brother McGuffin was a member and Past
Master of McKinley Lodge No. 347. He was raised on April 24, 1901,
and at the time of his death had been a Mason for sixty-three years and
nine months. In 1908, when Brother Oscar Lawler was Grand Master, he
was commissioned " Inspector" and served for years in that office. For
extended, faithful service we honor him.
"Now the laborer's task is o'er
Now the battle day is past
Now upon the farther shore
Lands the voyager at last."

Noel W. R oser, Sr. On July 11, 1965, San Bernardino lost a very
able and beloved member of the Craft in the passing of Noel W. Roser,
Sr. at the comparatively early age of 53 years. Brother Roser was a
native of Lansing, Illinois, and came to California over 25 years ago.
He received the degrees of Masonry in_ Damascus Lodge No. 648 in
1945 and with great devotion and ability served as a n officer of that
Lodge and was its M aster in 1952. When it was a pparent that a second
Lodge was needed in San Bernardino, Brother Roser was chosen to be
the Charter Master of Golden Valley Lodge (now No. 796) in 1959.
Under his able leadership as Master, and then for three years as
Secretary, that Lodge has grown and prospered. He was active in other
Masonic bodies, having progressed to the position of Deputy Grand
Commander of the Grand Commandery, Knights Templar of California.
Owing to his illness he was unable to go on to the office of Grand
Co~~an~er. H~ was also active in Scottish Rite and had filled many
positions m Shrme groups. His work in DeMolay was outstanding for

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

193

over ten years. He served as Chapter Dad and was a member of the
Advisory Council.
For many years he was a Supervisor of Personnel and for the last
three years had served in that capacity with the Etiwanda Steel Co. As
a citizen. he was Chairman of the C ity of Rialto's Personnel Board. He
was also a member of the Method ist Church. Funeral services were held
in San Bernardino under the d irection of Damascus Lodge No. 648 and
Golden Valley Lodge No. 796. Also participating were the Gra nd
Commander of Knights Templar and other Grand Commandery Officers.
As a testimony of the esteem in which Brother Roser was held , over
"100 persons attended the services. A bro ther of ability and devotion , he
contributed much to Masonry and his fellow men. His early removal
leaves a gap in the ranks hard to fill. Our sympathy goes out to his wife
and son, and other members of his family.
Samuel Leslie Hawken. Just as we were completing this report word
was received that Brother Les Hawken had passed away in his sleep at
the H alekulani Hotel. Honolulu, while vacationing in the Hawaiian
Islands. He died of a heart attack on Monday. September 20, 1965. He
was 82 years of age. Vice President of Garnett Young and Co., and a
resident of Burlingame. Brother Les had a long and distinguished career
in M asonry. A member of Burlingame Lodge No. 400. he was raised in
that Lodge on July 30, 1918, and served as W orshipful Master in 1924.
Les served as a member of the Burlingame Masonic Hall Association
from 1925 and was a Trustee until the time of his death. In this Grand
Lodge he was a well known figure. Appointed Inspector on January 27,
1925, he served the 364th District until his resignation on December 31,
1959- for almos t j5 years. For a number of years his name headed the
list of Inspectors as the senior member in point of service of that distinguished corps. We know of only one man- the late Clark Shaw of
Long Beach-whose length of service as Inspector exceeded that of
Les Hawken. He will be greatly missed in his Lodge, his City. and this
Grand Lodge. Many officers. past and present, of the Lodges in the
364th District will long remember the helpfulness of this faithful brother.
While we are all saddened by his passing, we are deeply thankful that
he was so long with us and so much a part of us. Our sympathy goes out
to his wife and two sons who survive him.
There are many names on the list of four hundred sixty-two which
well merit attention, but neither time nor space will permit. The complete list will be made a part of this report. All these brethren served for
such periods as God permitted them. Each according to his strength
and talents. A record of their achievements would be voluminous. No
one can measure the influence they had upon their brethren, their cities
and the State. We bow in reverent tribute to their memory and humbly
pray that we be rededicated to the God and the causes they so nobly
served.

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNIA

We end our report with the words of a prayer :
"Almighty God, with whom do live the spirits of those who depart
hence in the Lord and with whom the souls of the faithful after death
are in strength and gladness, we give thee hearty thanks for the good
examples of all those thy servant·s who, having finished their course in
faith, do now rest from their labor. And we beseech thee that we, with
all those who have finished their course in faith, may have our perfect
consumation and bliss in thy eternal and everlasting glory. Amen."

cherished by him personally was his membership on the Grand Lodge's
Board of Trustees for the Masonic Homes.
"He not only lived but flourished-a man who invested well the
amount of time allotted to him. H is last office held in the Scottish Rite
was that of A lmoner, the dispenser of alms. With compassion for all in
need or oppressed, honesty and integrity were the warp and woof of his
personality.
"In countless ways he has influenced for good thousands of men
and women whose lives he has touched.
"'James Leo,' as we loved to call him, had a quiet gentle strengtha simple and all-pervading beauty of spirit that marked him as one of
nature's elect.
"Inspiring leader, able administrator, competent executive, w ise
counselor, gallant and fearless warrior for truth an d right, faithful
friend , always ·r eady with wit and humor, devoted husband, father,
grandfather-and all-around family man of the first order.
"We shall remember him forever as truly a man set apart with rare
and blessed endowments. He was always an optimist-always a man of
hope; never doubting the ultimate victory of Right, Truth and Justice.
H e breathed and lived our Masonic precepts to a d egree we rarely
observe.
"Now, at one bound, he has passed over into posterity. and thus has
consigned himself to the guardianship of memory.
"A mighty tree has fallen in our midst leaving a large and empty
space against the sky.
"We humbly pray that his soul and spirit will be forever blessed by
Him who is the Father of us all."
I can only add a thought with reference to James Leo Halley, a truly
self-made man:
"When it was difficult to be cheerful. he was cheerful. When it was
hard to be patient, he was patient. When he couldn't have been blamed
if he had quit, he didn't quit. When he would have liked to speak his
mind, he kept silent. When it would have been easy to be disagreeable,
he stayed agreeable. When he could have ducked duty, he took duty on.
When a man who could be trusted was needed, he could be trusted! " A
great man, a devoted family man, a dedicated Mason, and a good true
friend.

J.

RAYMOND
FISHER
WILLIAM E. RIPE

ADAM B. MORTEN
WALTER B. MEYERS
MERLIN J . TABER, JR.

EULOGY
JAMES LEO HALLEY

By L. Harold Anderson
It is my privilege and pleasure to present to you the eulogy given
our esteemed brother, James Leo Halley, a member of Richmond Lodge
No. 375, on February 10, 1965. at the California Masonic Memorial
Temple in San Francisco by the Reverend M. Jay M inkler, a member of
Fairmount Lodge No. 435:
"James Leo Halley rose from humble beginnings to a degree of
eminence in the city of his birth, at a time when a strong voice of
reason and restraint was helpful to the entire community. He was not
afraid of hard work and was willing and anxious to act upon his convictions. He also possessed the qualities of courage and imagination so
necessary to progress and new development.
"Throughout his long career of public service on the Board of
Supervisors, he recognized the need for sincere and mutual relationships with all his fellow citizens. Man lives by and through such
relationships.
" In this way our distinguished brother suceeded in building a strong
homely American philosophical linkage with people of all faiths and in
all conditions of social. economic and political status.
"Death for such a man is not the great leveler. Death, rather, gives
us, the living, the opportunity to measure the eminence of the man to
whom we pay final respects.
"Although a veteran of World War I. his fraternal service-s are
more intimately and personally remembered; especially by all who have
had any connections with Masonic life in California.
" Past Master of Richmond Lodge. Past Venerable Mastei: Lodge of
Perfection, and 33° Mason of the San Francisco Bodies of the Scottish
Rite. Past Grand Patron of the Order of the Eastern Star of the State
of California. Past Potentate Islam Temple of the Shrine: and most

EULOGY
JOHN RANDLE MOORE
Past Grand Master
See Page 275

195

196

PROCEED INGS OF THE

PAST MA'S TERS, MASTE RS AND WARDE NS
OF CONST ITUENT LODGE S

Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
2 Jones, Edward D ............. 9-10-64
3 Browne ll, Lester "G" ....12-12-64
3 Lindgre n, Henry A. ........ 5-12-65
3 Pratt, Charles L ............... 1- 6-65
3 Schwart z, Charles A ....... 10-27-64
5 Byerrum , Charles H ....... 6-18-65
9 Borthwi ck, Nelson E ... .. 3-20-65
9 Doll, Charles V............... 11- 9-64
9 McKinse y, Timure T ..... 10- 5-64
10 Kleemey er, Albert C ..... 7-21-64
13 Furgens on, Claude ........ 1-21-64
13 Loveall, Albert G ........... 10-10-64
14 Evans, John N ............... .. 8-19-64
14 McGrath , Allen K ........... 7-21-64
16 Evans, Jack R................. 12-13-64
16 Klumpp , Louis F ........ ..... 7- 1-64
17 Gres, Clovis .................... 10-12-64
17 Mooser, Charles ............ 2-20-65
17 Morris, C. W .................... 5-10-65
17 Renouar d, Edouard M ... 2-20-65
19 Woodruf f, George E ....... 10-25-64
20 Benjam in, Eugene ........ 5-13-65
20 Lowry, Ross J ............... .. 5- 1-65
21 Meyer, Arthur M ............. 1- 3-65
23 Wisker, Aubrey N ........... 12-11-64
24 Carpent er, Edmond T ... 6-10-65
26 Buchley , Charles L ......... 12-28-64
35 Reif, Frederic k W........... 9-22-64
37 Irvine, George M............. 2-27-65
37 Wacker, Louis L ............. 5-24-65
40 S cott, Volney V............ ... 6-13-65
41 Wilson, Alvin B............... 5-31-65
42 Flam, August ............... ... 5-14-65
43 Bushma n, Irwin W ......... 9-19-64
43 Throne, James B. ............ 7-25-64
50 Daley, Garrett C............. 8-26-64
50 Fernand ez, Charles E..... 3- 8-65
50 Ritter, Arthur L . ............ 6- 7-65
51 Sears, John E ............ ....... 6-28-65
55 Borland , James L ........... 1-16-65
56 Bradsha w, Arnold ........ 3-10-64
60 Bond, Embert "B".......... 2- 7-65
61 Bostwic k, Henry ....... ..... 6-30-65
61 Beckwit h, Spencer E ..... 9-23-64
61 Gerichte n, George W ..... 2-28-65
79 Sloma, Aaron .................. 1-26-65
84 Hobson, Ernest W ........... 7-18-64
91 Fraser, Robert L............. 6- 8-65
93 Andrese n, Henry P ......... 3-22-65
95 Hornber ger, Walter L ... 12-15-64
99 Bohn. Frank G................. 7-11-64
99 Wright, Charles H. .......... 2-26-65
101 Griggs, Gilbert V .... ....... 11-14-64
103 Grubbs, Albert C ............. 8-27-64
106 Morelan d, Roy E ............. 5-18-65
106 Rimbey, Jay V................. 3-18-65
110 Harlan, Keith E ............... 5-29-65

Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
111 Ellis, Harold 0 ........... ...... 2-18-65
112 Hepler, Lewis ................ 7-31-64
113 Riegels, Max A ........ ....... 11-11-64
123 Smith, George A. ............ 5-28-65
123 York, Albert N ............... 8-23-64
124 James, Edwin T ... ........... 6- 4-65
124 Loveall, Albert G ....... .... 10-10-64
136 Drinnen , William C .......10-31-64
136 Hallett, Albert F. E ....... 8-15-64
136 Nathan, Paul .................. 12- 5-64
136 Waldeye r, Wilhelm ...... 2- 9-65
139 Low, James ............... ....... 11-10-64
143 Lyon, Edward T .............10-20-64
143 Wight, Gordon A ............. 9-19-64
144 Hansen, Edwin C ...........10- 2-64
149 Fren ch, Thomas M ......... 4- 4-65
150 Martind ale, Alley S ....... 9-23-64
156 Plank, Donald G ............. 4- 6-65
156 Stowe, Eugene C ............. 7-31-64
166 Kolb, Fred W .................. 7- 1-64
167 Haley, Arthur W .... ......... 6-16-65
168 Carringt on, Otis M ......... 12- 1-64
169 Griffith, William ............ 9-24-64
174 Easton, George W ........... 1-12-65
178 Culberts on. John ............ 1-11-65
178 Hamble n, William T ..... .. 3- 1-65
179 McDona ld, Don M ...... ..... 10- 5-64
183 Fowler, Gerald B ............. 10-13-64
184 Albertson, Harold .......... 12- 4-64
185 Moungo van, James D ..... 9-21-64
187 Gubser, August M ........... 5- 6-65
188 Gaylord , Robert B., Jr... 6-13-65
188 Pearl. Al va L ................... 3- 1-65
190 Graves, George W ........... 4-30-65
191 Vandel, Henning H. S ... 3-15-65
193 Dahlqui st, Fred .............. 3- 9-65
193 Matheso n, Charles E ....... 4- 9-65
195 Elliot, Charles A ..... ........ 8-12-64
195 Hemme nway, Fred C .....11-28-64
195 Ish, A. Buel... ................... 8-11-64
195 Sharp, Milton H ... ............12-17-64
196 Caskey, Eldon W............. 1- 9-65
196 Keep. Nigel .............. ........ 12- 9-64
196 Moeck, Stanley W ... ........ 2-13-65
198 Kincaid , Kenneth E ....... 1- 1-65
198 Tonneso n, Arne P ........... 4-19-65
199 Greene, Fred A. .............. 3-27-65
200 Stokes, Elmer J ............... 10-13-64
204 Brown, Herbert P ........ ... 7- 6-64
208 Green, Tom M ................. 4- 8-65
208 McCorm ick, John W....... 5- -65
208 Smith, Frank B ............... 9-14-64
209 Richard son, Lorenz V..... 8- 1-64
215 Eschen, James N ............. 10-13-64
216 Brownle e, James D ......... 4-27-65
216 Ginsbur g, Aaron M ......... 1- 1-65
216 Hastie, William W........... 12-23-64

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

197

Date of
Lodge
Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
Death
Name
No.
s 0 ......... 2-12-65
Edward
Woods,
292
9-25-64
H.......
Thomas
s,
Douglas
217
E ................... 6-23-65
217 Lovejoy , Homer .............. 2-19-65 292 Curtis, Paul
W ......... 11-30-64
Daniel
,
Gruwell
293
1-31-65
...
...........
Carmel
Martin,
217
4-12-65
...............
L
William
Cole,
295
7-22-64
.............
J
Arthur
Mason,
217
5- 8-65
.............
M
William
Jones,
299
9-22-64
.......
J
Arthur
tt,
Kennico
218
9-29-64
...........
T
George
Musson,
300
8-17-64
...........
W
Lloyd
218 Culford,
1- 4-65
...........
0
Frank
,
Sheldon
303
3-24-65
.........
L
Aubrey
,
220 Gauldin
3-13-65
............
r
Sylveste
Smith,
304
11-17-64
....
.............
B
Mark
221 Lacey,
nd S............. .. 2-28-65
221 Garcia, Theodor e J ......... 2-15-65 305 Poage, Lela
R............. 3-12-65
Edwin
Hulbirt,
305
2-64
7.....
...............
222 E tzel, Leroy
......... 11- 5-64
222 Boswell , Thomas H ......... 10-14-64 309 Benton, MitchellA.E..........
11-30-64
Charles
222 S tarkeyf Grover C ........... 12- 3-64 309 Cazaly,
man, Paul .......... 12-28-64
222 Peck, C arence E ............. 2-12-65 309 ZimmerChester
E ............. 7-19-64
222 Lauppe, Charles W ......... 3- 7-65 312 Wood, Hugh D ............... 8-31-64
225 Campbe ll, Homer W .... ... 1- 3-65 312 Staley, William
R. .......... 8- 1-64
226 Rigby, Roy W............... .... 9-22-64 313 Slagle,
Arthur H ....... 10-16-64
226 Aldwell, Edward C ......... 2-26-65 314 Larrabe e,
L ..... 12-20-64
229 Pierce, Walter S ............... 1- 4-65 315 Galbrait h, William
............... 12-20-64
229 Smith, Bryant R. ...... ...... 11- 8-64 315 Buehn, Louis Fl .............. 8-23-64
230 Vanderf ord, Otis H ......... 7-28-64 318 Evers, Wendel W ........... 5-22-65
230 Harkey, William P ......... 4- 1-65 318 Gree n, T homas .............10-28-64
236 Brown, Oliver E ............... 12- 4-64 320 Gage, William Br W ......... 1-10-65
237 Crain, William H. T ....... 7- 7-64 321 Miller, SylvesteL ............. 10-22-64
242 Pozzo, Joe D ............... ...... 12-29-64 324 Blair, William
G ........... 5-28-65
243 Thompson, Charles J ..... 7- 9-64 324 Chapma n, Dorr
.................. 1-31-65
243 H olmes, Harrison W ....... 11-25-64 327 Boivin, Lloyd
Samuel ........11-16-64
244 Harring ton. Harold R. .... 1- 7-65 328 Pinkerto n,Paul
L ............. 7-13-64
244 Ilmanen, William E......... 6- 1-65 329 Larquie r,, Pierre A ......... 1-30-65
246 Thatche r, Currier .......... 12-15-64 329 DuBarry
Clarenc e A....... 7- 2-64
247 Roullar d, Fred P ............. 1-28-65 331 Higgins,Claude
G ............. 5-17-65
248 Jordan, Addison A. ... ..... 3- 3-65 332 P ierce,
M ..... 9- 6-64
Milton
an,
Loeserm
335
1-65
1.
......
W
Frank
n.
Kauffma
248
. 9- 6-64
N............
Gervace
King,
339
8-15-64
............
Robert
a,
McGarv
248
2-11-65
..............
R.
Clifton
n,
Alle
339
5-16-65
.............
M
Chester
254 Niles,
5-18-65
...........
T
William
Rodger,
339
1-64
8...........
M
org~
Ge
256 Hughes,
10-13-64
...
G
Arthur
and,
Hildebr
343
4-15-65
.......
L
Robert
y,
258 Tudsbur
Ernest C ........... 11- 1-64
258 Dudley, Edgar L .... ......... 5-23-65 344 Men sch,
H ............... .. 5-13-65
Harry
r,
Baie
344
5-17-65
.............
H
259 Jordan, James
.............. 1-27-65
Isaac
n,
McGuffi
347
8-10-64
...............
C
259 Warren, Fred
T ... 3- 2-65
261 George, Austin C ............. 12-22-64 351 Klingles mith, P hilip
Walter H ........... 6-20-65
261 Ast, William C ................. 6-29-65 353 Jackson ,Ira
W ................... 3-11-65
262 Laubly, Charles S .... ....... 12- 6-64 355 Merrill, n, Stanley C ....... 2- 7-65
262 Condaffer, Ferdina nd C. 4-27-65 356 AitchisoCasper M..._......... 9-16-64
264 Jewett, HarryV...............11-30-64 357 Shear, Ed ward P .............10-22-64
268 Crowell , Roy V ............... 10-18-64 357 Ma nn,r, Worth C ............... 2-21-65
271 Paine, Frederic k W ......... 12-31-64 357 Mille
Isaac W........... 4-17-65
272 Lingenf elter, John E ..... 3-13-65 357 Crandel l,Joseph
G ...... ..... 8-14-64
273 Dickison , Clarence A..... 2- 8-65 358 Moodie,
W .... .........11-12-64
274 Bird, Robert L ............... .. 2-11-65 360 Cooper, David
.......... 5- 4-65
274 Starfas, Samuel P ........... 3- 8-65 360 Weinhol d, George
alk, Adolph ........ 5-18-65
280 Fhy, Thomas A ............... 7-28-64 360 Gottsch
d E ........... 5-18-65
280 McLeod , Roy J ............... .. 3-16-65 361 Bohn, Raymon E ......... 3-21-65
281 Miller, Ralph M ............... 5-19-65 363 LeQuatt e, Willis
k M .........11-12-64
285 Wicksto rm, Edward J ... 6-16-65 368 Cla rk , Frederic
Campbe ll, Daniel M....... 4-29-65
287 Cline, Charles P ............. 9- 6-64 368 Andre.
Anthony A ......... 9-11-64
288 Turner, Aaron N .......... ... 7-24-64 370
E ............ ..... 12-25-64
288 Turner, Austin F ............. 9-12-64 373 Coe, Theron
Willard C ........... 10- 5-64
291 Primme r, Samuel T ....... 8- 9-64 374 Schaal, Alfred
T ......... .... 11-13-64
291 Wakefor d, Ernest 0 .... ... 9-26-64 375 Morris, James L ........ ....... 2- 7-65
291 McGinn is, Fred .............. 11- 5-64 375 Halley,
A. D..... 8-13-64
291 Munger , John P ............... 6-20-65 376 Kneese, George

198

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
376 Broom, Da vid J ............... 1-25-65
376 Snyder, F red ----------····---- 5-10-65
377 Curl, Verne 0 ................... 1-16-65
380 Eader, J ohn H ................. 5-11-65
381 Wallace, J. G. D ...............11- 7-64
382 Binnie, William R........... 3-13-65
383 Clapp, Charles F ............. 5-19-65
385 Wright, Reuben M ......... 2-28-65
387 Hull, J ames H................. 8-31-64
389 Price, K enneth E ............. 7-31-64
389 Dougan, James F ............. 12- 4-64
391 Hodge, Ernest H ............. 3-25-65
391 Mann, William J.. ....... .... 3-26-65
393 Johnson, Frank .............. 2-18-65
392 Peyton, Robert C ............. 12- 4-64
394 Ne tz,JohnC..................... 2-17-65
396 Miller, Truman A. .......... 8-24-64
396 Barnard, Lau rel K. ........ 10-17-64
399 Cole, William J ..... .......... 11-22-64
399 Born, Alvar E ........ ........... 3-24-65
401 Blade, Da nte R. ................11-15-64
401 Wet more, Edwin M ......... 5-21-65
401 J ordan, J ohn C ................. 5-31-65
402 Tidwell, J ohn W ............. 9- 8-64
403 Countryman , Russell L. 5-17-65
404 Van der Sluis, E. J...... ..... 8-11-64
404 Plemons, Ha rvey ............ 11- 2-64
405 Nye, George S ................. 9- 2-64
407 Ver million, Roy E .. ......... 5-29-65
408 Graham, Samuel L .........12-12-64
409 Wa.lker, J ohn B ............... 3- 4-65
-UO McNett, Harold L. .......... 8-24-64
410 Gould, Allen J .......... ....... 11- 1-64
4 11 Carr, Thomas G ............... 4-25-65
411 Gehri g, J a me s M., Jr....... 6-29-65
411 Kline, William Y ............. 7-13-65
414 Dehnhardt, Herman ...... 5- 6-65
415 Flood, J ohn R. ........... ....... 11- 6-64
416 K roells, Ca rl J ................. 3- 6-65
418 Danbacher, George B ..... 11- 4-64
418 Odell, Rob ert A ............... 11-29-64
418 Orgar, F rederick W ....... 11- 9-64
418 Woolley, Guy .................. 9-19-64
421 Cole, Claude E ................. 6- 4-65
422 Cornell, Earl R. ................ 2-22-65
424 Badoux, Francis F ........... 8- 4-64
427 Ingram, Millage V ........... 7- 3-64
428 Goodrich, William B ....... 6-26-65
431 Remell, Anshelm S .... ..... 8- 4-64
433 Steffy, J esse T ............ ..... 2- 1-65
434 Dawson, Ray W ............... 5-27-65
435 Purdy, William 0 ........... 3-19-65
435 Switzer, George R. .......... 5-30-65
436 Dreher, Edward L ........... 9- 8-64
436 Gatten, Walter L ............. 12-13-64
437 Warke ntine, Aron J ., Sr. 6-16-65
439 McMurray, T. Z ............... 1-12-65
439 Cross, Earle G ................. 5-15-65
441 Omar, Harry M ............... 8-28-64

Date of
Lodge
De ath
Name
No.
441 Darroch, William N ....... 1-21-65
441 Rodgers, Alexander M ... 5-16-65
444 Hudson, J ohn B ............... 6-23-65
447 Wes t. Wallace W............. 11-27-64
447 Wright , Ma rk A ............... 4-28-65
451 Hollis, Absolom D ........... 12-30-64
451 Harr is, Samuel H ............. 4-19-65
452 Marler, F red E ................. 1-25-65
452 Margadant, Frank G ....... 2-23-65
454 White, Clyde N ............... 9-10-64
455 J ackson, Peter L ............. 12-25-64
457 Camma ck, I van M ........... 5-30-65
459 O'Connell, Michael B ..... 11-10-64
461 Johnson, H oadley, Sr ..... 5-24-65
463 Beck, Thomas B ............... 7-13-64
465 Smallin, Samuel C......... 9-30-64
467 Sinclair, Sa muel A .........12-11-64
472 Mason, Warren S .... ......... 3-30-65
475 J ohnson, Vict or E ........... 5- 2-65
475 B urton, Don A .................12- 6-64
475 Scott, Samuel W ........... .. 2-14-65
477 Griffeath, Glenn A ......... 12-31-64
477 Hawthorne , Arthur E .... . 2- 3-65
479 Carter, J oel M ................. 7- 1-64
484 Dickhaut, Charles A. ...... 4-21-65
485 Vieth, Albert H ............... 8- 6-64
487 Dew, John W................... 2- 1-65
491 Her~ey, Theodore S ....... 2-12-65
492 Clements, Frederick C .. . 9-10-64
492 Mahoney, Eugene A ....... 9-27-64
492 Young, J ohn T .................10- 7-64
493 Pennington, Bernard W. 6- 7-65
494 Kazebeer, Asa G .. ........... 3- 6-65
495 Mainzer, Fred A ............. 8-12-64
495 Weinstock, Frank ..........10-21-64
495 Re is, Harry ...................... 2-18-65
495 Morris, Clar ence W ......... 5-10-65
497 Stengel, Edmond B........ . 3- 8-65
498 Balk, Frederic k F ........... 4-18-65
502 Quinn, Wallace F ...........10-15-64
503 Caron , J ohn L ................. 8-11-64
505 Ar nim, Frank C ............... 2-16-65
509 Marquard, Me lvin H ....... 2-28-64
510 Nielsen, Emil T ............... 3-19-65
510 Swanson, Ca rl P ............. 6-23-65
511 White, Lloyd T ................. 4-11-65
511 Weber, F rancis B ............. 5-27-65
511 Waelty, Waldo R. ............ 6- 2-65
517 Thompson, Charles J _____ 7- 9-64
518 Looke, Austin A ............. 9-22-64
518 Brown, John L ................. 12-10-64
519 Haase, Carl D ................... 3-24-65
521 Peck, Auguste F ............. 1- 1-65
521 Sherman, Laurence D ... 5-22-65
524 Greenbaum, William J ... 1- 4-65
526 Rosenthal, Jules S ........... 1-17-65
531 Boyken, Adolph W.... ..... 5-15-65
532 Harris, Arthur L ............. 8- 5-64
533 Carley, Howard E ........... 12-16-64

199

Date of
Lodge
Date of
Death
Name
No.
De ath
Name
617 Jones, Paul H ................... 7- 5-64
3-21-65
...........
L
Luther
Tannar,
3
53 7 Slate~, Gler_i A ............... . 11-15-64 617 Carr oll. Albert E ............. 12-24-64
539 Hedrick, Clifford L ......... 12- 8-64 618 Gardner, Willis M........... 3- 3-65
53
540 Gates, George E............... 9-28-64 619 Ha newinkel, Percy ........10- 1-64
J ames L .... .... 3- 5-65 619 Haddock, George N ......... 3- 4-65
5 40 K en nedy,
621 Watts, Kenneth F ....... .... 1~- lj-~~
41 Taylor, Robert H ............. 7-14-64
5542
Willard, Dana H ............. 1-1 7-65 621 Neal on, J ac k "B "............ - 543 H arvey , Louis G .............12-17-64 623 P olla ck, Ma rtin ----··-------- 6- 12-65
630 P rice , F rank R ................. 4-1 3-65
544 Mar tin , Ral_Ph W ..... ........ 3-17-65
547 Coffin, Per lts E ................. 12- 6-64 633 LaF orce, Conley L ......... 8-16-64
639 Bloch, Louis M ................. 10-23-64
554 J orgensen,
J ohannes H . ................10- 8-64 642 McDougall, Duncan ...... 1-17-65
554 Ryan, Dona~d _B...............11- 5-64 642 Dobson, Harry V ............. 7-28-64
557 Sommer, Wilham A ....... 2- 6-65 648 Ingli, Cla rk A. .................. 8-18-64
558 Hoch, Fra nk M ................. 12-14-64 650 Me rrill, Frank F ............. 1-17-65
651 Nelsen, Louis .................. 11-23-64
560 VanBuren, Ch arles M ... 10-28-64
651 Bode, Lester R. ................ 1- -65
561 F ou ts, Raymound E. ..... 4- 9-65
651 Nichols, Lyman H ........... 3- 7-65
562 J ohnson, Ralph F ........... 2-16-65
562 Moody, Edward J ........... 9-23-64 652 J acobson , Leve S ............. 6-23-65
563 Stone, Ralph M ............... 8-10-64 654 Burge, Charles H ............. 8 -25-~4
655 Barr , Harvey A ............... 4-14- 5
563 Oswald, Lloyd E ............. 3-16-65
566 vonKlein Smid, Rufus .. 7- 9-64 65 7 Brackett, Robert W ......... 12-22-64
661 Bright, Clarence H. ........ 7- 7-64
567 Simpson , Clare R........... 12- 3-64
661 Ba r tram, Ivan G ............. 9-16-64
567 Martin, J ames R. ....... ..... 2- 7-65
567 P eugh, Orlo R. ................ 5- 1-65 662 Seiberling, Ivan 0 ........... 5- 2-65
569 Roderick, Harry L ........... 6-1 7-65 663 Timms, Thaddeus S ....... 10-10-64
667 Moore, John R. ................ 3-28-65
573 Hodges, Elmer C ............. 1- 2-65
668 Nelson, Alfre d N ............. 12- 8-64
573 Pillsbury, Warren H ....... 5-23-65
668 Doolittle, Merle R. .......... 5- 8-65
577 Bahme, John W ............... 4-23-65
671 DuMouchel, Lance A..... 12-30-64
577 Davies, Frederick W ....... 6-22-65
584 F er ris, Be njamin F ......... 7-26-64 673 Barrus, Walter E ............. 6-30-65
676 Grebbell, Edwin W ......... 6-16-65
585 Allen, Charles A. ............ 8-23-64
585 P orter, Carl D ................. 10-30-64 680 H olmes, Glenn C ............. 1- 3-65
588 Young, Earl A ................. 2-13-65 681 Owen, Thorton W ........... 8-22-64
687 K imball, Clyde L ........... 1- 6-65
589 Davis, Copel and G ......... 9- 5-64
691 Rad cliff, Charles D ......... 5- 4-65
592 Mar tinez, Rober t C ........ 2- 1-65
692 Doull, James L ............ .. ... 6- 13-65
594 F os ter, Morison G ... ........12- 1-64
596 K ent, Bartram D .............10- 7-64 693 Edelstein, Julius E......... 12-16-65
599 Williams, J ames B ......... 11-12-64 699 Chrotowski, Casimir .... 11-13-64
600 Keen, J ohn D ................... 8-14-64 703 Barnard, F rancis H ......... 2-23-65
600 Glaze, Clifford L ............. 10- 9-64 711 Grattidge, Donald L ....... 12-21-64
712 Ire ton, Vern R. ................ 5-19-65
604 P erryman, Fred M ......... 10-20-64
716 He nderson, George W... 4-22-65
605 Cleland, Rufus E ............. 1-13-65
605 Harrington, Samuel R. .. 1-16-65 726 Greenwood, William L ... 10- 17-64
730 Rutherford, Walte r F ..... 12- 18-64
609 Nyrop, Da vid F ............... 6-13-65
731 H owdeshelt, Claude A ... 9-1 2-64
61 0 Boorman, Ca rl E ............. 1-30-65
738 Kittell, Clave !... .............. 5- 4-65
612 Coughran , J ohn B ........... 2-24-65
612 H ackler, Frederick W ... 3-1 2-65 741 Shean, Robe rt S ............... 2-27-65
612 Miller, Horace R. ............ 6- 2-65 751 Cle ver, Hugo E ................. 4-17-65
613 Cloyd, J ohn W., Sr ......... 2-14-65 778 Baker, James B ............... 10-29-64
779 Loper, Gauss .................. 3- 2-65
613 Wilson, Evon L ............... 9-28-64
797 Nocon, Alex L ................. 3- 9-64
614 Pratt, Arth ur P ............... 5- 3-65
614 Montgomery, George E. 9-12-64 798 Carrigan, Ma~vin D ....... 6-16-65
801 Thomas, William J ......... 4-25-65
616 Proctor, Don P ................. 2-13-65
dge

~o.

At 11 :55 a.m. taps ~urrded. Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30
am. Thursday.

200

PROCEED INGS OP THE

IN GRAN D LODGE
MORNING SESSION -THURS DAY, OCTOBER 14, 1965

At 9:30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worship ful Jerrel Medlin, Master of
Portervil le Lodge No. 303. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocatio n.
The minutes of the morning session of Wednes day, October 13, were
read and approved .

GRAN D MASTE R'S OBSER VATIO NS, DECISI ONS,
RECOM MEND ATION S AND DISCIP LINE
These items were presente d as part of the Grand Master's Message .
They are printed below with reports of committe es assigned by the
Committ ee on Distribut ion. The action taken by Grand Lodge on each
is indicated .
OBSER VATIO NS
OBSERVA TION

No. l

In recent years, and especiall y in the last several years, the Grand
Lodge has been receiving a constant ly increasin g number of invitation s
to lay the cornersto nes of public schools and public buildings . It is, of
course, our desire to be able to accept all such invitatio ns. However , the
number is rapidly reaching the point where scheduli ng of these
ceremon ies to accommo date both the local authoriti es and the Grand
Lodge Officers is becomin g difficult indeed. I believe that we should
consider the possible establish ment of a special cornersto ne ceremon y
team in the Bay Area and also in Southern Californ ia in order that
we may have less difficulty in being .able to readily accept the invitations which are offered to us. I am not suggesti ng that the Grand
Lodge Officers would not participa te but rather that we would be
able to provide two, or even three, cornersto ne ceremon ies in different
parts of C alifornia at the same time. When possible, of course, the
necessar y stations would be filled by the elected and appointiv e
Grand Lodge Officers but their non-atte ndance should in no way
interfere with our a bility to provide a top-qual ity cornersto ne ceremon y
which would be complete ly represen tative of the Grand Lodge of
Californ ia.

The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand M aster observes that:
( 1 ) The Grand Lodge has received an increasin g number of invitations to lay the cornersto nes of public schools and public buildings .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN IA

201

( 2) That it is the desire of the Grand Lodge to accept all such
invitations.
( 3) H owever, the number of invitation s received is rapidly approachin g the point when scheduli ng of these ceremon ies to accommo date the local authorities is becoming increasin gly difficult.
( 4) The Grand Master s uggests that the Grand Lodge consider the
possible establish ment of a special cornersto ne ceremon y team in the
Bay Area , and also in Southern Californ ia in order to more readily
accept the invitation s offered.
( 5) This would enable the Grand Lodge to provide two, or even
three, cornersto ne ceremon ies in Californi a at the same time.
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes agrees with the
Grand Master and offers the followin g motion:
We move tha t it be the policy of the Grand Lodge that there be two
or more groups in different parts of the State which are qualified and
ready to perform the ceremon y of laying of cornersto nes when directed
by the Grand Master to do so.

The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committ ee on Jurisprud ence concurs in the suggestio n of the
Grand Master tha t the Grand Lodge should be able to provide two or
even three cornersto ne ceremon ies in different parts of the Jurisdict ion
a t the same time. We desire merely to make the observat ion that there
is but one Grand Lodge and that it can be opened for a ceremon y only
once at the same time, conseque ntly the second or third cornersto ne ceremony in a differen t place must be performe d without opening Grand
Lodge. This, of coarse. is permissible under our adopted Book of Ceremonies.
Adopted .
OBSERVA TION

No. 2

During the course of service as Grand Master, one necessar ily attends a good many receptions for the Grand Master. In many instances
these reception s are formal affairs, confined to members of the Lodge
or Lodges involved, and are conducte d in what has become a very
tradition al manner. I have found that there is a greater enthusias m and,
I trust, a greater impact on Masonry in a commun ity when the reception
for the Grand Master is held as an open affair with the wives, families
and guests of the members of the Lodges present so that all may hear
the message of the Grand Master. I believe that the effectiveness of the
visit of the Grand Master to any commun ity can be greatly enhance d
if his appearan ce and presenta tion may be public, and I suggest that
wheneve r it is feasible and practical the reception for the Grand
Master should not be a closed affair.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

202

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a comment by the Grand Master which is neither a decision
nor a recom.mendation and which he has therefore quite properly called
an observation.
. ~he observation which is the subject of this report and recommendation is nu~bere~ 2, and its substance is stated adequately in its last
sentence: I believe that the effectiveness of the visit of the Grand
Master to any community can be greatly enhanced if his appearance
and presentation may be public. and I suggest that whenever it is feasible
and practical the reception for the Grand Master should not be a closed
affair."
Certainly no one who is acquainted with the Grand Master and
~as o?se~ed his outsta nding talents in meeting the public and in expressing h1.s views, whether in respect to Masonic matters or otherwise. would
question for a moment the effectiveness of such personal contacts.
~our Committee is concerned, however, lest the great appeal of such
public appearances might militate agains t the cherished opportunities of
~aster Masons. to me~t and greet their Grand Master in their Lodges
m accordance with ancient custom. Only in tiled Lodges may the special
honors due the G~and Master be extended. Only in tiled Lodges may
the members be given. the . most. ~eaningful information concerning the
state of the Craft which hes w1thm the special competence and knowledge of the Grand Master. These are precious Masonic privileges and
not community matters.
. While. therefore, your Committee rejoices in such public presentations as may be found feasible by the Grand Master from time to time
it feels impelled. for the reasons stated, to recommend that the Grand
Lodge affirm its special regard for its Grand Master by maintaining the
p~esent. policy that whether the appearance of the Grand Master at any
given time or place shall be public or in a tiled meeting shall be determined in each instance by the Grand Master a fter consultation with
the local brethren.
We move the adoption of this report.
~he Committee on Ritual indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted.
OasERVATION

No. 3

. On sever~! occasions during this past year I have been asked questions concernmg the eligibility for the degrees of Masonry on behalf
of men who are not of a Protestant denomination. Because of these
Ee.el. that I should state very emphatically that religious
questi~ns
~enommat1on 1s m no way a criterion for Masonic eligibility. No man
is b~rred from. Masonry because of religious faith. Only that man who
demes the existence of a Supreme Being is ineligible to become a

!

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

203

Mason. In this respect, any Mason who exercises the privilege of casting a negative ballot because of religious denominational prejudice is
committing an unmasonic act, even though the fact of his action may
be known only to himself. Religious discrimination has no place wha tever in the structure of Freemasonry, and this must be understood by all
Master Masons .
Received.
OBSERVATION No. 4
It has been brought to my attention on several occasions during
this past year that in some Lodges the conduct of the officers and
members during the refreshment period in the banquet hall following
the conferring of a degree has been lacking in the dignity and the
propriety which should be expected on such occasions. I want to point
out that the dignity and quality of a Masonic gathering is not confined
to that portion of the gathering which is held behind tiled doors. It is
incumbent upon every presiding Master that he supervise and conduct
all Masonic gatherings of h is Lodge in such a manner that there will
be at all times a n atmosphere of complete propriety. Crudeness and
ribaldry have no place in any Masonic gathering.
Received.
OBSERVATION No. 5
It has been my observa tion in my several years of association with
the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes that many of our constituent Lodge officers do not clearly understand the admission requirements for the Masonic Home at Union City. Although the requirements
have been explained on many occasions. problems continue to arise
because of misinformation or misunderstanding. It should be clea rly
emphasized that no Lodge officer should make any statement. either
directly or implied. which would tend to cause a potential applicant
for admission to the Home to believe that his or her admission is
ass ured. Necessarily there is a thorough investigation by a professional ly trained representative of the M asonic Home for each application.
Occasionally. the inves tigation discloses facts concerning the applicant
which are not known by officers of the Lodge sponsoring the applicant
and thus awkward and even embarrassing situations can result when
a n application must be d enied after the applicant has been encouraged
by statements of Lodge officers. I want to urge each of you to be
thoroughly familiar with the rules of admission to both of our M asonic
Homes and to recognize that admission to either of the homes is a
privilege and not a right.
Received.
OBSERVATION No. 6
as the requirement of efficiency calls for
well
as
protocol
Proper
communications between Grand Lodge jurisdictions to be handled

204

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

through the office of the Grand Secretary or by the Grand Master. On
occasion officers or members of our constituent Lodges have sent letters
of inquiry or even questionnaire forms directly to the Grand Lodges
of North America. It should be thoroughly understood tha t this practice
is not proper and tha t a ny inquiries should on all occasions be routed
through the office of the Grand Secretary or be sent only a fter approval by the Grand Master. I have made these remarks because every
Grand Lodge office is burdened with much correspondence a nd the
need of proper procedure should be apparent to all.
Received.
OasERVATION

No. 7

It has been my experience this yea r in much reading of the California Masonic Code tha t the time is rapidly approaching when there
should be an updating of our Code. T wo things are necessary. One
is to eliminate from the Code those items of duplication and of
obsolescence that quite obviously need not be in the Code. Secondly.
our present Code refers. in many insta nces. to the Ross Digest. This
former volume of M asonic law is not a lwa ys available to one who
is searching the California Masonic Code for the answer to a problem.
I believe that our entire law should be contained in one volume. I have
no definite recommendation as to how to proceed with such a project.
I merely want to comment at this time tha t, as time goes along , the
need for modernization of the California Masonic Code becomes more
pressing.
Received.

DISCIPLINE
On June 29, 1965, I ordered the suspension of the M aster of a Lodge.
This action was taken following the report to me by a special committee
representing the Gra nd M aster and which had investigated an obvious
situa tion of stress and lack of harmony within this Lodge. This action
was determined necessary in the best interests of Masonry.
The Committee on furisprudence:
Recommended approva l of the above action by the Grand Master
and that the suspension be until the election and installation of his successor. Further, tha t its detailed report be not included in the Proceedings.
The Grand M aster's action was approved and recommenda tion of
the Committee was a dopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

205

DECISIONS
(The C ommittee on furispruden ce has read and considered the Gra~d
Master's decisions. We find them to be clear, accurate and_w~ll considered. We report separately on Decision No. 7, but at this time move
the approva l of Decisions Nos. 1 through 6 and recommend a yes vote. )
DEc 1s10N No. 1
I was a sked as to the eligibility for a Masonic funeral of a brother
who ha d taken a Dimit from a Lodge in our Jurisdiction and then
some years later had applied for affiliation but, prior to the time _of
possible election, he had passed away. Since the brother ~oluntanly
took his Dimit and there had been no charges of unmasomc conduct
found against him at any time, and since we must assume that his
application for affiliation was because of a sincere desire to return to
active Masonic membership, I believe we must rega rd the deceased
brother in at least the same light as we would a member suspended
for non-payment of dues since a Lodge may, in its discretion, bury a
member suspended for non-payment of dues. If there be no other
offenses established against him it would seem reasonable that a Lodge
might. in its discretion. provide a Masonic funeral service for a brother
who has applied for return to active membership but through the
ci·rcumstance of death had not completed the process. I therefore
ruled that a Masonic fun eral service could be provided in these
circumstances.
Adopted.
DEc 1s10N No. 2
I was asked as to the propriety. as well as legalitry, of enclosing
tickets for a DeMolay Breakfast in a letter sent to members of a
Lodge urging their attendance at the Breakfast. I ruled that to enclose
tickets either with a Lodge Trestleboard or in a direct letter to members
of a Lodge would be considered as using pressure to sell the tickets
and thus would be illegal under our law. It is perfectly proper to announce in a Tresleboard or by direct letter to members of a Lodge
that a D eMolay Breakfast is to be held as a fund-ratsing proj~c~ and
thus an invitation is extended to members of the Lodge to part1c1pate.
Their choice, however. should be free of any implication of requirement
to purchase a ticket.
Adopted.
D Ec1s10 N No. 3
The question was presented : C ould a subordinate organization of
a Lodge a ccept the gift of a substantial block of tickets from a racetrack in order that the tickets might be sold to members of the Lodge
and the proceeds then go to the subordinate organization of the Lodge?
I ruled tha t this would be illegal. The organization must be considered
as though it were the Lodge itself. Our Law is clear that no Lodge can

206

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

accept any of the proceeds or profits of any gambling enterprise. This
provision does not require that the gambling itself be unlawful. In my
opinion, the selling of tickets to a racetrack would be aiding an enterprise which is conducting gambling. It is also my opinion that the proposed scheme was basically contrary to established M asonic policy.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Decision number 3 of the Grand Master, that a subordinate organization of a Lodge could not accept the gift of a block of tickets from a
race track and sell them to members of the Lodge was referred to the
Com mittee on Policy and General Purposes. With commendable restraint, we believe, the three members of the legal profession serving on
the Policy Committee see only a legal point involved and on questions
of law they continue to remain mute - as a Committee, that is.
Adopted.
DEc1s10N No. 4
I was asked whether it was proper for a Lodge to use its funds for
the purchase of clothing for the grandson of a deceased member of
that Lodge who has been admitted to the Masonic Home for Children
at Covina. Our Law does not cover this point but I am certain that
when this Grand Lodge broadened the eligibility rules for entrance to
the Children's Home. there was no thought of any differentiation in the
aid and assistance that could be extended to any child who might enter
under the broader eligibility rules. I therefore ruled that it was a
proper expenditure of Lodge funds to provide suitable clothing for the
boy. The same Lodge also asked if the Lodge might reimburse itself
for the funds expended for the child's clothing from the father'·s weekly
contribution to the Home on behalf of his son. (The father of the boy
was not a M ason). The answer was "no" because the contribution of
the father is deemed to be a direct contribution to the daily cost of
support of his son at the Home.
Adopted.
DEcrs10N No. 5

I was asked if the interior of a ballot box must be padded. There
is nothing in the California Masonic Code which prescribes the exact
form of a ballot box. I believe that it is completely proper and probably
obviously necessary that the ballot box should be lined with some
material that would so deaden the sound as to make it impossible for
anyone nearby to even estimate whether a cube or ball had been deposited in the box. Our ballot is strictly secret. Thus, every reasonable
precaution should be taken so that there will be no opportunity for
any member present to be able to ascertain in any way how another
brother has voted. I therefore ruled that the ballot box in question
should be suitably lined with a n appropriate material which will sufficiently deaden the sound of the fall of the cubes or balls.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

207

DEc1s10N No. 6

The question was asked if a Lodge could present a trowel as a gift
from the Lodge to the candidate. M y answer was that it could do so
but that the expenditure for purchase of the trowel must come from
the refreshment fund . not from the general funds of the Lodge. This
was the intent and the effect of a preceding decision which established
that a trowel cannot be purchased with general funds of a Lodge.
Adopted. NOTE: R esolution No. 9, page 237, supersedes.
DECISION No. 7

My opinion was asked whether a resident of California, who while
in the military service of the United States had been made a Mason
in a regular Lodge under a foreign jurisdiction, could be permitted to
visit a Lodge in this jurisdiction.
I held that under Section 551 of the California Masonic Code,
having received the degrees from a foreign source, without proper
permission of the Lodge nearest his place of residence, he could not
be recognized as a Mason until such Lodge (nearest his place of
residence) shall have ·received him as a member. However. he is not
a cla ndestine Mason.
While it was once held that such Lodge could as a condition for
receiving his application demand t he payment of the full fee for the
three degrees ( CMC. Sec. 551b). nevertheless, it is my opinion that
a later decision and report of the Jurisprudence Committee ( R. D ..
Sec. 576; Proc. 1900, p. 866; Cf. R.D .. Sec. 577, Proc. 1912, p. 158) is
much more in a~cord with our Masonic philosophy. and that it would
be unfair for the Lodge nearest his place of residence to make any
charge, beyond its affiliation fee, for receiving him as a member. To
require him to pay again for degrees regularly received elsewhere
would be to penalize the innocent brother, who was ignorant of the
rules of Masonic juris diction.
It is my opinion, therefore, that under these circumstances it would
be highly improper for the Lodge to charge more than the affiliation
fee for receiving him as a member.
(In connection with this Decision I want to recommend that our Law
be changed to make it possible for a California resident who, while in
the military service, has been made a Mason in a regular Lodge under
a foreign jurisdiction to be considered as having properly become a
Mason. A man in the military service does not have control of his
place of actual residence and although his legal residence may remain
in California for all practical purposes his residency is where the
military authorities place him. If he is deemed eligible for membership
in a Lodge within the jurisdiction where he is performing his military
service, and this is a jurisdiction with whom we are in fraternal accord.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

then we should not place this Master Mason in a technically unwelcome
status upon his return to California. He should be recognized as a
regular member of the Lodge which he has joined.)

RECOMMENDA TIONS

208

The Committee on f urisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence reports on the Grand Master's
Decision No. 7 as follows:
This decision is that a resident of California who, while in the military service of the United States, was made a Mason in a regular Lodge
under a foreign jurisdiction cannot be permitted to visit a Lodge in this
jurisdiction.
We believe that this decision is in strict conformity to Section 551
of the C.M.C .. which provides that such person cannot be recognized
as a Mason until the Lodge nearest his residence shall have received
him as a member.
In addition, the Grand M aster held that under such circumstances,
it would be highly improper for the Lodge nearest his residence to charge
the brother more than the affiliation fee for receiving him as a member.
This also we believe to be in accordance with the law as set forth in
Section 551. as construed in previous decisions and reports adopted by
this Grand Lodge.
We move that the decision be approved.
The Grand Master has recommended that Section 551 be changed
to recognize such a person as having properly been made a Mason. To
effect this change in the law, we offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED that Section 551 of the C.M.C. be amended to add
thereto the following:
"However, any Lodge shall recognize as a Ma·s on a person who,
while in the military service of the United States, has received
the degrees of Masonry in a regula r Lodge under a jurisdiction
recognized by this Grand Lodge in which he is stationed at the
time of receiving the degrees and in accordance with the laws of
such jurisdiction."
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
The Grand Master's decision was adop ted.
Amendment to Section 551 C .M.C. adopted by 5/ 6 vote.

209

RECO MMENDATION No. 1
At the 1964 Communication this Grand Lodge authorized the Grand
Master to appoint a special committee to study and make recommendations concerning possible modification of our laws respecting liquor.
The report of that committee has been submitted to the Grand Master
and I have chosen to include it in this message. The committee consisted
of:
Phil N. Myers, P.G.M.. McCloud Lodge No. 430.
Norman Smith, Barstow Lodge N o. 682.
John A. Sickenberger, West Lake Lodge No. 392.
Samuel I. Jacobs, Doric Lodge No. 216.
John Williams. Sequoia Lodge No. 349.
Herewith is the full report of this committee :
To the Most Worshipful Theodore Meriam
Grand M aster of M asons in California:
" The undersigned Committee, appointed by you in compliance with
the resolution adopted by the 1964 Grand Lodge Communication.
respectfully s ubmits the following report:
It is the opinion of the C ommittee that the provisions of the California Masonic Code should be revised and amended in the following
particulars :
( l) An ordinance be adopted reading substantially as follows:
"A Masonic Lodge shall not hold meetings in, own
or lease a building containing a liquor establishment, except that a tenant in such a building who is engaged
primarily in the business of selling other merchandise
may sell bottled liquors incidentally to the sale of such
other merchandise; provided, however, that such tenant
shall not be permitted to display dominating or offensive
advertising in connection with the sale of such bottled
liquor on the exterior of a building owned by the Lodge.
nor may a Lodge be a tenant in a building where such
dominating or offensive advertising is displayed."
( 2) Section 408b of the California Masonic Code, which was
Grand Master H eald's Decision No. 7 adopted at the 1964
Communication, adequately covers the situation therein provided. and we recommend no change.
( 3) An ordinance be adopted reading substantially as follows :
"A Masonic Lodge may hold a purely social evening, open installation of officers. or meeting where business is transacted incidentally, in a public hotel, restaurant, or other establishment serving liquor, provided
that no liquor is served or consumed during the meeting or meal."

210

211

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

( 4) An ordinance be adopted reading substantially as follows:
"All organizations of this jurisdiction. the pre-requisite of membership wherein is that a person be a
Master Mason, shall be governed by the same restrictions imposed upon Master Masons in this jurisdiction."
( 5) It is recommended that Section 513 of the California
Masonic Code, and all annotations appertaining thereto, be
repealed, leaving the moral and physical requirements prescribed in Section 511 to be determining factors for an applicant to receive the degrees of Masonry.
( 6) Members of Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of California are subject to the laws and regulations
of foreign jurisdictions when in those jurisdictions, just as
members of Lodges of other jurisdictions are subject to the
laws and regulations of the Grand Lodge of California when
in this jurisdiction. We therefore recommend that Section
334h of the California Masonic Code be revised so as to
provide that members of Lodges under the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of California will not be in violation of California law if they are complying with the law of the Grand
Lodge of the foreign jursdiction when they are actually in
such foreign jurisdiction.
( 7) Any provision of the California Masonic Code which is in
conflict with the above should be amended or modified.
( 8) It is the opinion of the Committee that the Worshipful
Masters and/ or other presiding officers of any organizations
requiring Masonic connection should not tolerate conduct
on the part of members which is contrary to the principles
of Freemasonry, and to this end they should use their good
offices to avoid the creation of any opportunity which might
easily degenerate into an occasion which would bring reproach upon our Fraternity.
Respectfully submitted:

liquor and this recommendation has been referred to this Committee.
This Committee feels that there is not sufficient time at this Communication to research our law and prepare the proper legislation and
the Grand Master concurs. The Grand Master accordingly presented
an addition to his printed message ·r ecommending that the Commi ttee
on Jurisprudence be requested to prepare the necessary legislative proposals on this subject to be submitted to the Lodges well in advance
of the 1966 Communication.
The Grand Master a lso suggested that those who wish to submit
additional or other proposals on this subject s ubmit them to the Grand
Secretary as early in the coming Grand Lodge Year as possible in order
that there may be ample time for their consideration by the cons tituent
Lodges well in advance of the next Communication.
Your Committee concurs in the recommendation which refers this
recommendation to this Committee fo r the necessary legislative proposals
and which urges those interested to submit additional or other proposals,
all to be considered at the 1966 Communication, and recommends its
adoption.
Your Committee also believes and recommends that since the report
of the Special Committee recommends the repeal of Section 51 3 C.M.C.
and all its annotations, which make bartenders ineligible for membership
which also involves Paragraphs 683av and 683ax C.M.C. and possibly
other sections of the C.M.C. and also recommends the revis ion of Paragraph 334h relating to compliance with the laws of other jurisdictions
which involves Paragraph 408b C.M .C., that no charges of unmasonir
conduct, involving violations of Section 513 C.M.C. and its annotations .
Paragraphs 68~a v C.M.C., 683ax C.M.C., 408b C.M.C. and 334h
C.M.C. only as it relates to activities referred to in the Sections and
Paragraphs above referred to, should be acted upon or tried until after
the 1966 Communication so as to avoid suspensions or expulsions of
brethren on charges which may not be unma sonic conduct after the 1966
Communication or would not have been if these matters had been acted
upon at this Communication. Nothing in this report is intended to prevent the filing of charges or trials after the 1966 Communication if the
above Sections are not repealed or revised.
We move the adoption of the recommendations of this Committee.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs in this
report and the Committee on Grievances concurs in the recommendation
as to delaying the filing of charges and trials.
The Grand Master thereafter made the following supplemental recommendation:
I completely endorse the report of the special committee and I recommend that legislation be developed to be submitted to Grand Lodge
for its decision on the various recommendations contained therein. In

PHIL N .MYERS
SAMUEL I. JACOBS
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER
NORMAN SMITH
JOHN T. WILLIAMS

September 7, 1965."
I completely endorse the report of this special committee and I
recommend that legislation be enacted to provide the suggested
changes in our Law.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Grand Master's Message, as his Recommendation No. I, includes the report to him of the Special Committee on our laws respecting

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

this connection I have consulted wi th the Committee on Jurisprudence,
a nd I concur in their judgment that such proposed legislation cannot be
carefully and adequately developed in the few days available during
the present Communication. I therefore recommend that the Committee
on Jurisprudence be requested to prepare the necessary legislative proposals to be submitted to the Lodges well in adva nce of the 1966 C ommunication.
I further urge, in view of the widespread interest in this entire matter.
that all members of Grand Lodge give thoughtful consideration to our
p resen t laws respecting liquor and to the contents of this report.
There may be those who will wish to submit additional or other
proposals and I urge that any such proposals be submitted to the Grand
Secretary as early in the Grand Lodge year as possible in order that
there may be ample time for consideration by the constituent Lodges
well in advance of the I 17th Annual Communication.
The original recommendation and the supplement were adopted.
RECOMMENDATION No. 2
A review of the membership returns over the past several years
reHects a steady increase in the number of instances where the Lodges
are granting advance remission of dues to a disproportionate number
of their members. The latest tabulation shows 25 cases where such
remissions have covered over 4 % of the membership of the particular
Lodge. Of these, the percentage was fi ve or more in sixteen instances
and one of the Lodges included in the above remitted, in advance.
the dues of 14% of its members.
The Grand Secretary has called attention to the above tendency in
severa l of his annual reports. Each time he has pointed out that such
a procedure by the Lodge is based upon the provisions of Section 577
of the Code, but involves a misunderstanding of the intent of that section. As covered by annotation 'h' of the section, eligibility for remission in advance occurs only where payment of his dues would involve
a definite hardship to the member.
It would not appear as probable, in these times, that 5 % of the
members of each of sixteen Lodges would suffer real hardship by the
payment of dues or that, in the extreme case cited, 14% of that Lodge's
membership is in such financial distress that Section 577 needs to be
applied.
In order that we may seek a better general understanding of the
regulations it is my recommendation that the incoming Grand M aster
appoint a committee of not more than three members to study the
matter of unwarranted remission of dues and report its findings and
recommendations to the 1966 Annual Communication.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes urged adoption o f the
recommendation.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

RECOMMENDATION No. 3

At the 1964 Communication of our Grand Lodge the report of the
Special Committee on Committee Structure was adopted. By this adoption certain policies suggested in the report were approved. The Deputy
Grand Master, in selecting committee personnel for the for thcoming
Grand Lodge year. has implemented these policies enthusiastically and
extensively. as will be observed when the committee appointments are
announced la ter this week. However, both time and circumstance have
prevented complete implementation of the recommenda tions concerning
committee structure adopted by Grand Lodge last year. Definitions o f
the duties of each committee need yet to be refined before they can be
submitted for legislative action and inclusion in the California Masonic
Code. Certain committee consolidations which were recommended and
which do not require legislative action have been effected; others have
not, and it is my recommendation that the incoming Grand Master
appoint a special committee to study furthe r the suggested consolida~
tions which have not been put into effect in order that it may be d early
determined that such consolidations will be of rea l benefit to our Grand
Lodge work. The recommendations of last year's special committee
were far reaching in their effect and scope and it has taken more time
than had been anticipated to put them all into effect; thus the work
must be continued.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes urged adoption of the
Grand Master's recommendation. In this connection it proposed that
the renewed recommendation of the Committee on Constitution Observance in its report that it be made a Standing Committee be a matter
for consideration by the Special Committee on Committee Structure.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated its concurrence in the recommendation of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Grand Master's recommendation was adopted.
The recommendation of the Committee on Policy and G eneral
Purposes was adopted.
RECOMMENDATION No. 4

In last year's report by the Committee on Committee Structure it was
recommended that the Committee on Correspondence be re-designated
as the Committee on the California Freemason. Since that time we ha ve
experienced our first general distribution of the California Freemason.
The work of publication and distribution of this fine magazine is a task
of considerable size and of great importance. I believe that the needs,
both for the present and the future of this publication, would best be
met by the establishment of a special publication board composed of
the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and the Editor~in-Chief of
the California Freemason. Their responsibility would be to administer

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the publication and distribution of our magazine. The flnal responsibility
f r the content of the California Freemason has always rested with
~e Grand Master. The business of distribution of the magazine has
~een the responsibility of the office of the Grand Secretary.. Th~ Cha~ran of the Committee on Correspondence has been the Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef
~nee
the inception of the magazine. It is my judgment that the best
5
nd most efficient publication of the California Freemason can best
~e accomplished by the establishment of this board. Proposed language
f0 r a code section to establish the board would be as follows:
C.M.C. Section 205. California Freemason Publication
Board. The publication and distribution of the California Freemason shall be administered by a board comprised of the Grand
M aster, the Grand Secretary and the Editor-in-Chief. w ho
shall be appointed by the Grand Master.
It would than be necessary to amend Section 203 having to do with
the Committee on Correspondence. The suggested amended section
vould be as follows:
'
C.M.C. Section 203. Committee on Correspondence. The
Committee on Correspondence shall review the Proceedings of
other jurisdictions with which we are in fraternal accord. It will
report to the Grand Master and flle copies of its reviews with
the Editor of the California Freemason w ho will publish such
parts as are deemed to be of general interest to the members of
the Lodges of this Jurisdiction.

the problems of distribution and the Editor must prepare and make up
the copy for each issue.
This Committee has suggested that with the separation of the
Editor from the Committee he wo~ld be left without a staff or anyone
to carry on during any temporary emergency such as illness or accident.
We have suggested to the Grand M aster and the D eputy Grand
Master and G rand Wardens that there should be one or more Associate Editors who can assist with the preparation of the contents and
in case of any emergency perform the work of the Editor-in-Chief. We
are authorized to say that the suggestion meets with the complete
approval of the elected officers. It may be implemented by removing
the last phrase of proposed Section 205 and adding a section after Section 205 in some form such as:
The Editor-in-Chief of the California Freemason and one Associate
Editor, or more, as the Grand Master shall determine, shall be appointed by the Grand Master.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has recommended (Recommendation No. 4)
hat a California Freemason Publication Board, composed of the Gra nd
Master, Grand Secre~ary and ~he. Ed~tor of the ma~azin.e, be created
d that the publication and d1stnbut1on of the Cal1forn1a Freemason
~: administered by this board. He has suggested the ~dditi~n to our
Code of a new section, t? be number~d 20~. to accomplish. this en~.
In brief this would d ivorce the ed1torsh1p from the cha1rmansh1p of
he Committee on Correspondence. It would also require the recasting
~f Section 203 of our Code because at present Sect~on 203 p~ovi_des:
..
. the Committee on Correspondence shall p ublish and d1stnbute
he. magazine California Freemason . . . . " The Grand Master has
!uggested language amending Section 203 to redeflne the duties of the
Committee.
.
.
The suggestion of separation from the Committee on Correspondce originated with the present Editor and Committee.
en Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes favors the placing
f administration of the publication and distribution of the magazine in
ohe hands of the proposed board because the ultimate responsibility for
t hat appears in the publication rests upon the Grand Master for the
;me being; the office of the Grand Secretary is vitally concerned with

215

The Committee on /urisprudence:
The Grand Master's Recommendation No. 4 is that a California
Freemason Publication Board be established. To do this requires the
addition of two new sections to the California Masonic Code and the
amendment of one existing section.
To carry out the Grand M aster's recommenda tion the C ommittee
on Jurisprudence, therefore, submits the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Sections 205 and 206 be added to the
California Masonic Code to read:
"Section.205. California Freemason Publication Board. T he publication and distribution of the California Freemason shall be administered by a board comprised of the Grand Master, the Grand
Secretary and the Editor-in-Chief.
"Section 206. Editors. The Editor-in-Chief of the California
Freemason and one Associate Editor, or more, as the Grand M aster
shall determine, shall be appointed by the Grand Master."
BE IT FURTHER RE SOLVED: That Section 203 o f the
California Masonic Code be amended to read:
"Section 203. Committee on Correspondence. The Committee
on Correspondence shall review the Proceedings of other jurisdictions with which we a re in fraternal accord. It will report to the
Grand Master and file copies of its reviews wi th the Editor of the
California Freemason who will publish such parts as are deemed to
be o f general interest to the members of the Lodges of this
jurisdiction."
Your Committee moves the adoption of the resolution and recommends a yes vote.
Adopted as amended 5/ 6 vote.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RE.COMMENDATION No. 5
.
.
b
our Grand Master in consultation with
The auditors selec~ed ~
ated to us that certain practices as set
our Grand Treasurer ave m ic
become cumbersome, inadequate
forth in Section 194 C.M .Cf. hhave now
of machine accounting estaband unnecessary because o t e program
lished in the Grand Lodge Office.
Section 194 C.M.C. reads as follows:
.
.
"
. f
The Grand Master in consultation with the
Audit o accounts.
.
fessional a uditor whose duty
Grand Treasurer shall ~es1gna~e a hp~~ls claims and demands against
it shall be to examine eac m~nt o:u~hall1 h~ve been. paid by the Grand
the Grand Lodge as are to. e,
shall appear to be in order. and to
Secretary, to app~ove sfuchh itGs a~ Master or Grand Treasurer such
call to the attention o t e ran
items as are not approved." . . .
dation that the Grand
In line with their suggestt~n it is. myGrecomdmMenaster the Chairman of
h
'th the mcommg ran
•
Treasurer. toget e~ w1
d h
d 't s continue to study this problem
.
Committee
an t e au I or
h
h
F
t e mance
d dit and if in their unanimous judgme~t t e
of control. p~oced~~~ ~n t::t they then prepare a suitable resolution to
law should e mo i_ e , 1
th said resolution to be presented at the
effect said changes m our aw. e
next Annual Communication.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
d r
No 5 by the Grand Master has been referred to
Recommen a ton . .
d G
ral Pur oses only. It is that the
~he C~mmdtteedoM!~!~cyG~~nd T::~surer. t'hairroan of the Committee
mc;~~~ce r::d auditors' continue to study the probl~ms hof. control'. proon I
.
Grand Lod e funds and if m t e1r unanimous
ce~u:e and .audit fotfhe Code shou1d be modified that they present proopm1~~ s~c~~~~:noto that end. The policy involved is sound-we move
pose R eg1s
d t' n No 5 of the Grand Master be approved.
that ecommen a 10
·
Adopted.
.
o
At 12 :10 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :3 p.m.

At I :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding . This session was raised by Worshipful Leslie Joseph Crain,
Master of Drytown Lodge No. 174. The Grand Chaplain delivered the
invocation.

216

J.

217

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thurs day, October 14, 1965

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees noted. Committee reports and action taken are printed below each.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCES
MASONIC PLAQUE OR SIGN WITH EMBLEM
AT ENTRANCE TO CITY
1964 Resolution ( 5)

This resolution considered at the 1964 Annual Communication failed
to receive a 5/6ths vote, but did get a simple majority. The matter is up
for reconsideration at the 1965 session. See S ection 783 CM.C . It requires a 2/ 3rds vote for adoption.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Masonic Lodges are proud of their existence as evidenced by their display of emblems on Temples, notices of meetings and
activities in newspapers; and
WHEREAS, the Grand Master's Special Commission on Masonic
Practices has stated "that we are failing dismally and disastrously to
inform the public of today what Masonry is and what it .stands for. Far
worse than opposition, we face wide ignorance of the very existence of
our Fraternity"; and
WHEREAS', there appears to be no valid reason why a Masonic
Lodge should not be allowed if it so desires to place at the entrances of
a city or town a dignified and well maintained sign or plaque exhibiting
a Masonic emblem and giving the name and number of the Lodge, and
or where and when it meets thus notifying traveling Masons and the
public in general that there is an active Masonic Lodge in that city or
town.
RESOLVED, that subsection S of Sec. 333 C.M.C. be repealed.
Respectfully submitted,
J.B. WHITE.HEAD, P.M .. No. 402
SAMUEL W. REIMAN, M ., No. 425
HARRY R. SoNE.S, P.M .. No. 384
W. M. WILLIAMS, P .M .. No. 42 5
CLYDE D. CHAMBERS,
HowARD K. ROBIN, P.M., No. 390
P.M .. No. 384
G. T. DUNCAN, M .. No. 402
JoHN E. BowMAN, P.M .. No. 384
F. W. FLANAGAN, M., No. 390
MARSHALL c. NORRIS.
H. C. FISH, M .. No. 384
P.M .. No.390
PERCY E . PALMER, P.M., No. 402
CLYDE E. RODGERS , P.M .. No. 390
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

218

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
ed
Resolu tion No. 5 presen ted at the 1964 Comm unicati on propos
city
the
of
es
entranc
the
at
erect
.
that a Masonic Lodge. if it so desires
sign or
or town where it is located , a dignified or well mainta ined
plaque exhibit ing a Mason ic emblem.
the
The Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es ag reed with
ion,
resolut
ute
substit
a
offered
and
ion
resolut
the
in
sed
purpos es expres
to wit:
the
"Resol ved that a Mason ic Lodge may, if it desires . erect at
well
and
d
entranc es of the city or town where it is located a dignifie
the
mainta ined sign or plaque exhibit ing a M asonic emblem and giving
further
and
meets
it
when
and
name and numbe r of the Lodge and where
mainthat a Lodge may jointly with anothe r Lodge or Lodges erect and
sign."
a
tain such
"yes"
The resolut ion as amend ed receive d more than a majori ty of
is
ingly
accord
and
vote
6th
5/
d
require
the
receive
votes; but failed to
real
approv
before the Grand Lodge for its further consid eration a nd
quiring a 2/3rds affirmative vote.
Your Comm ittee wishes to stress the fact that this propos ed legislaa sign.
tion is permis sive only. No Lodge would be require d to erect
proThe
exist.
ions
No sign is require d where freewa y or other restrict
its
known
make
to
so
do
to
posal merely allows a Lodge which wishes
r
brothe
ing
sojourn
the
to
gs
meetin
its
of
presen ce and the time and place
nity.
commu
its
who enters
the
We believe, as we did previou sly. that the policy expres sed in
and
ity
fratern
the
of
ts
interes
best
the
in
ly
definite
amend ed resolut ion is
merits your approv al.
We, therefo re, urge a yes vote.
The Commi ttee on Jurisprudence:
There has been referre d to this Comm ittee Resolu tion No. 5 which
on a nd
was presen ted to this Grand Lodge at the 1964 Comm unicati
receive
to
failed
but
ion
resolut
the
of
favor
in
vote
ty
receive d a majori
Comthis
to
over
the require d 5/6th vote and was accord ingly carried
were
d
involve
ions
resolut
the
munica tion for further action. Copies of
and
year
last
of
dings
Procee
the
in
are
not distrib uted beca use they
your
for
ion
resolut
the
read
and
ed
occurr
what
therefo re we will state
benefit.
perThis Resolu tion No. 5 propos es that a Mason ic Lodge be
dignia
town
or
city
a
to
es
entranc
the
at
place
to
mitted. if it so d~ires'.
emblem
fied and well mamta med plaque or sign exhibit ing a Mason ic
meets.
it
where
and
and giving the na me and numbe r of the Lodge
The Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es moved the adopLodge to
tion of a substit ute resolut ion adding a provisi on permit ting a

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

219

ining
act jointly with anothe r Lodge or Lodges in erectin g and mainta
:
follows
as
reads
ion
resolut
ute
substit
This
such a sign.
,
"RESO LVED : That a Mason ic Lodge may, if it so desires
dignia
erect at the entranc es of the city or town where it is located
fied and well mainta ined sign or plaque exhibit ing a Mason ic emblem
when
and giving the name and numbe r of the Lodge and where and
or
Lodge
r
anothe
with
jointly
may
Lodge
a
it meets; and further that
sign."
a
such
in
mainta
and
Lodges erect
ion
The Comm ittee on J urisprn dence submit ted the following resolut
the
and
ion
resolut
the
ted
submit
who
those
of
e
to carry out the purpos
ion:
substit ute resolut
"RESO LVED : That subsec tion s of Section 333 C.M.C . be
repeale d."
ed
The presen t Comm ittee on Jurispr udence feels that the propos
and
ion
resolut
l
origina
legisla tion will accomp lish the purpos es of the
l P urthe substit ute resolut ion. The Comm ittee on Policy and Genera
.
eration
consid
under
poses has reporte d on the policy
In order to bring the matter before Grand Lodge we move the adoption
tion of the substit ute resolut ion and the resolut ion deleting subsec
resoluute
substit
the
of
ce
333s C.M.C . and recomm end that the substan
ttee on
ion be added as a subsec tion of Section 333 C.M.C . The Commi
ns.
endatio
recomm
the
in
rence
Financ e indica ted its concur
Adopte d 2/ 3 vote.

PROP OSED AMEN DMEN T TO THE ORDI NANC ES
PUBLISH NAM ES OF ELECTED CAND IDAT ES
1964 Resolu tion {7)

on
This resolution consid ered at the 1964 Annua l Comm unicati
The
ty.
majori
simple
a
get
did
but
vote,
6ths
5/
a
failed to receive
783
matter is up for reconsideration at the 1965 session. See Section
n.
adoptio
C.M.C . lt requires a 2/3rds vote for
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
ted
WHER EAS. the Maste r of San Diego Lodge No. 35 has appoin
ns
occasio
several
on
met
has
which
a Comm ittee on Mason ic Practic es
rs
membe
of
nce
attenda
of
that
ng
includi
s
problem
and discuss ed various
nd
a
s,
during degree
WHER EAS . the membe rs of said committee unanimously believe
accomthat increas ed attenda nce at the conferr al of d egrees may be
Lodge
in
plished by permitt ing the candid ates' names to be printed
Mail.
U.S.
the
h
throug
bulletin s and sen t to the Lodge' s membe rs
BE IT THER EFOR E RESO LVED :
That Section 334 C.M.C . be amend ed to add the following words
infor m
at the end of said section : "A Lodge shall have the author ity to

220

PROCEED INGS OP THE

its members by U.S. Mail in the Lodge bulletin or otherwis e of the
names of applican ts for the degrees and it shall have the authority
to so inform its members as to the names of candidat es and the dates
of conferra l of the several degrees. "
Respectf ully submitte d,
JAMES H. LEACH, P.M. No. 35
GLENN K. SMITH, M . No. 35
R. H. ELLIOTT , P.M. No. 35
Ref erred to Committ ees on Jurisprud ence and on Policy and General
Purposes .

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committ ee on Jurisprud ence, in the interest of economy of time.
has reported on both Resolutio ns Nos. 7 and 18 ( 1964) in one report
and the report largely consists of stating the differences between the
two resolutio ns. It is true. as stated in the report of that Committ ee,
''These two resolutio ns are wholly different in content." Because they
are different. the Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes will discuss
them separate ly.
We shall turn our attention first to Resolutio n No. 7 ( 1964) because it was presente d and numbere d first last year and for the more
cogent reason that everythin g which the proponen ts of Resolution
No. 18 ( 1964) seek to accompli sh thereby will be accompli shed if
Resolutio n No. 7 ( 1964) is adopted.
Let us, therefore , consider No. 7 ( 1964) and after you have voted
thereon. we shall turn to the other resolution.
This resolutio n was referred to the Committ ee on Policy and General
Purposes during the 1964 Commun ication. The Committ ee recomme nded
that the resolutio n be adopted. A written ballot was taken. The resolution received more than a majority "yes" vote. but the vote did not reach
the required five-sixths, hence the resolutio n is again before us. and the
Committ ee has re-exami ned the argumen ts for and against it.
The enacting clause of the resolutio n is quite brief and reads as
follows: "that Section 334 C.M.C. be amended to add the following
words at the end of the section: A Lodge shall have the authority to
inform its members by United States mail in the Lodge Bulletin or
otherwis e of the names of applican ts for the degrees and it shall have
the authority to so inform its members as to the names of candidat es and
the dates of conferra l of the several degrees. "
We shall discuss the two types of notices separate ly. but it should
be pointed out that the proposed amendm ent as to both types is permissive, it does not require Lodges to give either notice; it permits each
Lodge to decide for itself to give one. both or neither of the notices.
Your Committ ee is aware that notices of applicati ons to receive the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

221

degrees are mailed to their members by many English. Canadia n , Australian Lodges; also by Lodges in New Jersey. Massach usetts and we
believe in other jurisdicti ons in the United States.
One obvious and valuable end which ·such a notice would serve
would be to bring the applicati on to the attention of any member of the
Lodge who might know o f any disqualification of the applican t. U nder
the present prohibiti on against such notices. the member knowing of the
disqualification may know nothing of the applicati on unless he is
present at the particula r Stated M eeting at which it is read or the particular Stated Meeting when a ballot is taken. The situation may be different in smaller communities, but in a medium or large city in which
every Lodge has city-wide jurisdicti on, we cannot be too zealous in
affording our Lodges every reasonab le means of ascertain ing whether
its applican ts are worthy or unworth y. This resolutio n appears to your
Committee to be a step in that direction .
A more pleasant aspect of the proposed amendm ent is that such a
notice would inform a member of the Lodge who was an acquaint ance of
the applican t, but perhaps not in close enough contact with him to otherwise learn, that the applicati on was being made. Again it would seem
that this would redound to the welfare of the Lodge and to the happines s
of the member who was the acquaint ance.
The argumen ts against the amendm ent are that we have never done
it before, therefore we should not do so now. This argumen t is one that
may be urged against every proposed change. If it is accepted as being
sufficient of itself, progress cannot be made along any line.
It may be sai~ that such a notice might, on some occasion come to
the attention of a non-Mas on. We ask, ls your Lodge receiving applications which it would be ashamed to have known by non-Mas on s? Are
there men applying to our Lodges who would be ashamed to have it
known that they were knocking at the door of Masonry ? We hope not,
but if either is the case we ought to find it out.
The second notice which the amendm ent would permit a Lodge to
give to its members, if it desired to do so, would be tha t, for example on
Novemb er second, F irst Degrees would be conferre d on John Smith and
William Brown, that on Novemb er ninth Second Degrees would be
conferre d on Paul Jones and Harry White and on Novemb er sixteenth
a Third Degree would be conferre d on Donald Thomas . It certainly
would be a service to the members of the Lodge who were friends of
one or more of these candidat es to be advised that their friend was to
receive a degree. It would permit such members to know in advance and
to arrange their personal engagem ents so that they might attend the
conferral .
We do not believe that there is any risk involved that the informat ion
in the notice would be of value to any solicitor because the amendm ent
does not contemp late the publicati on of addresse s or occupati ons.

222

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

would be either
Your Comm itee believes that each of the notice s
. In a small way
a ·safeg uard to the Lodge or a courte sy to the memb ership
even those who
of
g
such a notice might furthe r contri bute to the feelin
were being inthey
s
theles
never
knew no applic ant or candi date, that
.
Lodge
their
in
on
going
was
forme d a little more as to what
not requir e
does
t
dmen
amen
the
that
asize
emph
Permi t us again to
s who
Lodge
those
any Lodge to give these notice s it merely autho rizes
want to, to do so.
sed amen dThis Comm ittee recom mend s a "yes" vote on the propo
ment.
1964 Resol ution
The Committee on Jurisprudence: (See repor t following
(18). )
Adop ted 2/3 vote.

CES
PRO POSE D AME NDM ENT TO THE ORD INAN
TION
CON CUR REN T JURI SDIC TION AND PUB LICA

1964 Resol ution (18)
tion failed
This resolution considered at the 1964 Annu al Communica
r is up
matte
The
ity.
major
simple
a
get
did
but
to receiv e a 5/ 6ths vote,
It reC.
C.M.
783
for reconsideration at the 1965 session. See Sectio n
quires a 2/3rd s vote for adoption.
California:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M. of
good fellow ship
WHE REA S, the custom to promo te intere st and
es is extrem ely
amon g the Lodge breth ren and candi dates for degre
impor tant in this prese nt day and age, and
denie d the
WHE REA S, many Blue Lodge Broth ers have been
nt comprese
to
oppor tunity to partic ipate in their friend s' degre es due
munic ations within their respec tive Lodges,
518 (not includ THE REFO RE, BE IT RESO LVED . that Sectio n
nic Code be
Maso
rnia
Califo
the
of
ing subpa ragra phs a to f inclus ive)
amen ded as follows:
s are locate d
"518. Conc urren t jurisd iction . If two or more Lodge
shall have
they
place
or
town,
city,
within the corpo rate limits of any
act on the
and
e
receiv
can
them
of
Any
n.
therei
concu rrent jurisd iction
ng neare r
residi
ns
applic ation for degre es of reside nts thereo f or perso
. Each of
exists
theret o than to any other place where a Maso nic Lodge
and coners,
memb
own
its
such Lodges has separ ate jurisd iction over
who
them,
of
one
of
ers
memb
not
ns
curre nt jurisd iction over all Maso
other
any
to
than
o
theret
r
neare
or
place,
or
reside in such city, town
days after receip t
place where a Lodge exists , and each shall within ten
or Lodge s of any
of an applic ation by the Lodge notify such other Lodge
waive r of jurisand
tion
affilia
applic ation it may receive for degre es or
h the name of
publis
to
tion
discre
's
Lodge
dictio n. That it is within the
craft and Maste r
candi dates for the date of confe rring of the Fellow

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

223

(Form er RD.
Maso n degre e in their respec tive Lodge bullet in. ( 1962)
"
214.)
Sec.
Respe ctfull ly submi tted,
DANA A. TURP IN, S. W., No. 336
JAMES A. DAVIS, S. W ., No. 6 10
S. W. , No. 603
DAVID R. RoDGER, S. W., No. 497 L. M. C owAN, JR.,
and Gener al
Refer red to Comm ittees on Jurisp ruden ce, and on Policy
Purposes.
d that 1964 R esoThe Comm ittee on Policy and Gene ral Purposes move
lution ( 18) be tabled.

The Comm ittee on Jurisprudence:
Resol utions
Your Comm ittee on Jurisp ruden ce is repor ting on both
same time,
the
at
tion
unica
7 and 18 carrie d over from the 1964 Comm
of the
ation
public
the
viz.
tter,
ct-ma
becau se they relate to the same subje
ins.
Bullet
e
Lodg
in
name s of candi dates
C. to permi t
Resol ution No. 7 seeks to amen d Section 334 of the C.M.
Bullet in or
Lodge
the
in
Mail
S.
U.
by
a Lodg.e to inform its memb ers
dates of
the
and
es
degre
the
for
ants
applic
of
otherw ise of the names
confe rral of the severa l degre es.
C.M. C. to add
Resol ution No. 18 seeks to amen d Sectio n 518 of the
publis h in the Lodge
a prov:ision that it is within the Lodg e's discre tion to
g the Fellow craft
Bullet in the name of a candi date with date of con ferrin
and Maste r Maso n Degre es.
nt and the adop. These two resolu tions are wholl y differ ent in conte
use of the U. S.
es
requir
tion of both could only result in confu sion. One
to all degre es;
and
ants
applic
to
Mail and the other does not. One rela tes
es.
Degre
Third
and
d
Secon
the
the other relate s only to
of Lodge s. If
Sect_ion 518 relate s only to concu rrent jurisd iction
const rued as
be
could
it
ore.
theref
Resol ution No. 18 were adopt ed,
iction as
jurisd
rrent
concu
ising
exerc
s
Lodge
applic able only to those
define d in that sectio n.
ed.
We recom mend that Resol ution No. 18 be NOT adopt
to be adopt ed
is
7
No.
We furthe r recommend that if Resolution
C.M. C. are
the
of
518e
and
518d
518b.
then since Sectio ns 334g, 518a,
Code.
the
from
ed
remov
be
d
incon sisten t, they shoul
mend a tion,
As to the merits of these resolu tions, we make no recom
which the
on
,
policy
of
r
matte
a
y
purel
since their subje ct matte r is
ting.
repor
is
ses
Purpo
ral
Gene
and
Comm ittee on Policy
A major ity voted to table the resolution.

224

PROCE EDING S OP THE

DISP ENSE WIT H MOT ION AND SECO ND
ON RESO LUTI ONS
(I)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
rnia:
WHE REAS . Sectio ns 76 and 781 of the Califo rnia Mason
ic Code
requir e that on resolu tions to amend the Const itution and
Ordin ances
the vote shall be taken on the propo sed amend ment and not
on the report
of the Jurisp rudenc e Comm ittee; and
WHE REAS , it is now the policy and practic e to place
such a
resolu tion before the Grand Lodge by a forma l motion
to adopt the
resolu tion. made by the report ing member of the Jurisp
rudenc e Committee , followed by an autom atic, perfun ctory second ; and
WHE REAS , this is a meani ng less and unnec essary formal
ity, by
men who may be compl etely oppos ed to the propos al: and
WHE REAS , the Jurisp rudenc e Comm ittee report is often
negati ve
to the resolu tion, thereb y creatin g the incong ruous and
confus ing
situati on of the Comm ittee memb er moving the adopti on
of the amend ment and immed iately therea fter recommendi ng a "no" vote;
NOW , THER EFOR E. BE IT RESO LVED , that it shall
be the
policy of the Grand Lodge regard ing a propos ed resolu
tion to amend
either the Const itution or the Ordin ances. to dispen se with
the formal ity
of motion and second , and such a resolu tion shall be
deeme d to be
prope rly placed before the Grand Lodge for voting purpo
ses by having
the report ing Comm ittee member make a verbat im readin g
of the amend ment to be voted upon. at the conclu sion of the Jurisp rudenc
e Comm ittee
report , followed by the Comm ittee's recom menda tion.
Respe ctfully submi tted.
WILLI AM E. S. JARRE TT, P.M.. No. 368
Ref erred to Comm ittees on Jurisp rudenc e and on Policy and
Gener al
Purposes.
Resolu tion No. 1 was withd rawn by its propo nent.

VETE RAN PAST MAS TER BUT TON S
(2)
To the Mo st Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of Califo
rnia:
WHE REAS , there is no provis ion in the Califo rnia Mason
ic Code
for recogn izing and honori ng those brethr en who have served
as Maste r
of a Lodge of this jurisdi ction and have held the title of Past
Maste r for
fifty years or more, and
WHE REAS . the honor ing of brethr en with such long service
to the
fratern ity would be a recogn ition of merit to such memb
ers, now
theref ore,
BE IT RESO LVED , that a Past Maste r of a recogn ized
Lodge of

GRAND LODGB OP CALIFO RNIA

225

this jurisdi ction and a memb er in good standi ng of such
a Lodge , and
who has held such title for fifty years. shall be eligible
for a Veter an
Past Maste r button . Period s during which such Veter an
Past Maste r
may have been demitt ed and not a memb er in good standi
ng or while
suspen ded for N .P.D. must be added to the time he norma
lly would have
been eligible.
BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED , that the Grand Secret
ary be
author ized and directe d to prepar e a suitab le design for and
strike off a
sufficient numbe r of button s for this purpose.
BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED . that the Comm ittee on
R itual be
directe d to prepar e a brief ritual or form of ceremony, in
.order that ~he
Veter an Past Maste r may be impressively presen ted with
the lasting
eviden ce of the esteem of the Grand Lodge of Califo rnia
and the love
and affection of the brethr en.
Respe ctfully submi tted,
GEORG E E. H!ATI , P.M .• No. 247
HARRY D. WATK INS. P.M .• No. 247
RoY R. CRAW FORD, PM .• No. 247
Referr ed to Comm ittees on Jurisp rudence, on Policy and Gener al
Purpo ses, and on F inance .
The Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses has carefu
lly considere d Resolu tion No. 2 which seeks to establ ish the custom
of presen ting to each Past Maste r of this Jurisd iction who has _com pl~ted
50 years
after his term as Maste r a lapel button comm emora ting this
event.
Your Comm ittee is oppos ed to this resolu tion for severa l
reason s.
1. The highes t honor which a Lodge may bestow upon
one of its
memb ers is his election to the office and respon sibility of
its Wors hipful
Maste r. His design ation as a Past Maste r is in conseq uence
of this election and his install ation.
2. For many years th is Grand Lodge has bestow ed a
V etera n's
Button on its members who have 50 years of cumul ative
service. This
mark of our fratern al esteem is univer sal in its applic ation.
The Past
Grand Maste r who served this Grand Lodge almos t 60
years ago has
this award in comm on with all other of our ve trean
brethr en. This
resolu tion would create a specia l class of brethr en distinc
tive a nd presumab ly different from their other vetera n brothe rs.
3. The resolu tion is discrim inator y as agains t affiliates who
having
served as Maste rs in anothe r jurisdi ction may affiliate with
Califo rnia
Lodge s.
The Comm ittee on Finance concu rs in this report .
The Comm ittee on f urisprudenc e has author ized us to report
that
they see no questi on of law involv ed and will theref ore have
no report .
We move the adopti on of the resolu tion but urge a no vote.
. A majori ty voted agains t the resolu tion. -

226

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FINANCING OPERA TIONS OF MASONIC HOMES
(3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, it is the duty and obligation of all Master Masons to
aid and assist distressed, worthy Brother Master Masons, their widows
and orphans; and
WHEREAS, less than half the Masons in California act upon this
obligation and voluntarily make annual contributions to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund; and
WHEREAS, it is manifestly unfair to expect half the Masons to
carry all the burden of the Homes; and
WHEREAS, the accumulation of money in the Endowment Fund
and the magnitude of that Fund is such as to act as a deterrent to some
Masons with regard to the needs of the Homes; and
WHEREAS, the interest earned by the Fund does not, nor will it
in the foreseeable future, provide adequate income to operate the Homes,
which fact has made it necessary to institute a per capita tax to augment
this income and further to conduct an annual appeal for funds to
enlarge the corpus of the Fund; and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge and its constituent Lodges are faced
with a continuous and increasing expense necessary to operate this
fund raising activity of the annual drive for contributions to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund; and
WHEREAS. the Masonic Homes ought to be the charge and care
of all Masons throughout the year and not merely during a short time
period designated for fund raising
BE IT NOW THEREFORE RESOLVED. that the operations of
the Masonic Homes be conducted hereafter on a more nearly current
basis.
That this end be achieved by setting the per capita levy for the
Masonic Homes annually by the Grand Lodge to provide 75% of the
approved operating budget of the Masonic Homes, thus assuring that
all Masons will share equally in supporting the Homes.
That the balance of funds required to operate the Homes be taken
from the annual income of the corpus of the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund.
That the capital requirements of the Masonic Homes. when authorized and approved by the Grand Lodge. be met by using the annual
income from the corpus of the Fund above that required to fund the
operating budget.
That any income from the corpus of the Fund, not utilized within
two years for either of the purposes stated, be returned to the corpus
of the fund to be governed by the rules thereunto applying.
That modus operandi of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board be

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

227

directed to obtaining bequests and gifts to the corpus of the Fund by
means other than an annual appeal to the members for contributions.
That Section 247 C.M.C. be amended by adding the words "Capital
requirements" immediately following the word "maintenance."
That Section 249 C.M.C. be deleted from the C.M.C.
Respectfully submitted,
E. S. HAYS, M., No. 761
THELO A. PERROTT, P.M., No. 761
HERBERT E. SIMONS,
J. WILLIAM CARL, M., No. 346
P.M., No. 761
ToM J. McW1LLIAM,
P.M., No. 761
JoHN J. WILLIAMS, P.M., No. 761
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Polioy and General
Purposes, and Finance; also to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board
and the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 3 proposes a •s omewhat radical change in the concept,
or manner, of securing funds for operating expenses of the two Homes
maintained by this Grand Lodge.
We think that the regulations set out in our Code, with reference to
the Masonic Homes Endowment Board, i.e .. Article V. Sections 241-250,
inclusive, developed and strengthened over a long period of years with
the consent at all times of Grand Lodge, are reasonable and, to the
greatest extent possible, equitable. The present per capita assessment
for operating expenses of the Homes faHs equally on each member of
the Fraternity through the annual levy of each Lodge. It is our considered judgment that too many of our Lodges could not meet a substantial increase in the total per capita tax to be paid out of the dues
of members which this resolution would entail-unless our members,
through action in their respective Lodges, would uniformly agree to a
substantial increase of present dues.
Your Committee does agree with the proponents of this re·solution
that each member of the Fraternity should do his full share in this most
worthy charity.
We recognize that charity emanates first from the heart and secondly
from the pocketbook, and we recognize the difficulty of equalness in
giving. Let him who can, and so desires, give in proportion to his means.
The example so set cannot but help influence liberality in giving by
others. Such is the history of our Endowment Fund as it has moved
steadily forward in purpose and results.
Finally, it is to be observed that procedures followed by this Grand
Lodge are, to a very great extent, comparable to those followed by other
Grand Lodges which maintain Homes, by religious organizations, by
secular organizations which have projects for the unfortunate and by
charitable foundations.

228

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Your Policy and Genera l Purpose s Commi ttee recomm ends a no
vote on the resolution.
The Commit tee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 3 was referred to the Commi ttee on Jurispru dence
and we submit our report as follows:
Resolution No. 3 propose s that Grand Lodge annuall y provide an
operatin g budget for the Masoni c Homes by levying a per capita tax
upon all constitu tent Lodges . The amount of these taxes thus assessed
upon the Lodges is to be 75 % of the total operatin g budget as thus fixed
by Grand Lodge for the Masoni c Homes. The remaini ng 25 % to be
taken from the annual income received from the corpus of the Masoni c
Homes Endowm ent Fund.
The Resolut ion further propose s to amend Section 247 C.M.C. and
to repeal Section 249 C.M.C.
The effect of the propose d amendm ent to Section 247 would be to
permit the income from the Endowm ent Fund to be used for capital
requirem ents as well as maintai ntenanc e. The Section now provide s that
such income can only be used for mainten ance purpose s.
The present Endowm ent Fund was built up and created by contributions from many sources. These contribu tors donated to the Fund
upon the knowled ge and represe ntation that the corpus of the Fund
would forever remain intact, the income alone to be used for mainten ance
purpose s. They are entitled to have the Fund used for the sole purpose
for which it was created . and for which they donated . In our opinion it
would be an unwarr anted and illegal breach of trust to now change the
purpose s for which said funds can be used after millions of dollars have
been thus donated to it.
The Commit tee on Jurispru dence is opposed to this Resolut ion.
The Commit tee on Finance , the Masoni c Homes Endowm ent Board.
and the Board of Trustee s of the Masoni c Homes concurr ed in the
recomm endatio n of the Commi ttees on Policy and General Purpose s a nd
on Jurispru dence.
A majority voted against the resolution.

CONT RIBUT IONS LEVIE D UPON LODGES
(4)
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHER EAS, the amount of per capita tax levied by Grand Lodge
obscurely publish ed (only in the one years Proceed ings when last
so
is
change d) that each year the Master and Warden s have difficulty answering the qualifyi ng question s required by the Grand Lecture r which
relate to the per capita tax; and
WHER EAS, the per capita tax levied upon each Lodge is most
importa nt to the Lodge; yet any Grand Lodge Officer or any Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

229

Lodge Commi ttee may in a report recommend a change in this tax with
NO forewar ning to the Lodge and little or no forewar ning to the
delegat es attendin g Grand Lodge; and
WHER EAS. in Section 283 of the Californ ia Masoni c Code the
first. second and fifth items already fix a specific portion of the per
capita tax, but the third and fourth items are non specific stating only
"such per capita sums as the Grand Lodge shall levy.'' To rectify this
inconsistency. be it
RESOL VED . that Section 283 C.M.C. be amende d to read as follows: (significant addition s are in italics)
CONT RIBUT IONS LEVIE D UPON LODGE S . Each
283.
Lodge. whether chartere d or under dispens ation, shall pay with its Annual Returns the following contribu tions :
1st. For each degree it shall have conferr ed during the year the
sum of $1.00.
2nd. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30.
the sum of SOc for Grand Lodge constitu tional requirem ents.
3rd. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30, the
sum of $1.10 for Grand Lodge general activities.
4th. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30, the
sum of $1.50 for support ing the Masoni c Homes of Californ ia.
5th. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30, the
sum of $1.00 for the use and benefit of the C aliforni a Masoni c Memori al
Temple .
(omit the following stateme nt in its entirety )
The Grand Lodge may levy, in addition to the above, such other
per capita sums as, in its judgem ent. may be required .
(the remaind er of the Section to be the same and unchan ged)
Respect fully submitt ed.
DAVID P. RussELL, P.M., No. 396
Referred to Commi ttees on Jurispru dence. on Policy and Genera l
Purpose s, and on Finance .
The Commit tee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es:
Resolution No. 4 propose s an amendm ent to Section 283 Californ ia
Masoni c Code, to provide for .. perman ent," fixed per capita upon Lodges
for the conferri ng of degrees . for Grand Lodge constitu tional requirements, for Grand Lodge general activities, for support of the Masoni c
Homes of Californ ia and for the use and benefit of the Californ ia
M asonic Memori al Temple . The several levies provide d for in the resolution total $4. l 0 per capita plus $1.00 for each degree conferr ed during
the year. It should be noted that the total suggest ed per per capita levy,
with complete detail, is a part of the report made to Grand Lodge by the
Commi ttee on Finance at each Annual Commu nication of Grand Lodge.

230

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE

The resolution also proposes the elimination of that portion of Section 283 which gives Grand Lodge authority to levy additional per
capita levies if such in its judgment are necessary. Striking this portion
of the Section is an effort to bind future sessions of Grand Lodge something which cannot be done and would only make it necessary to enact
new special legislation at every Annual Communica tion.
This resolution, suggesting fixed, inflexible annual per capita levies
should be defeated because it is impracticabl e. While much of Grand
Lodge expenses can be determined in advance, resolutions are brought
to the floor of Grand Lodge for your consideratio n at each Annual
Communica tion anti, if approved by you. may and frequently do require
appropriatio ns in excess of any income which could be provided on
fixed per capita levies.
It is in the province of members of Grand Lodge when considering
resolutions to give weight to financial considerations as well as to the
merit of ·s ubjects under discussion. Obviously. if you as members of
Grand Lodge approve legislation requiring the expenditure of Grand
Lodge funds, the means for implementin g your judgment must be
available.
We move adoption of the resolution and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommend s a no vote.

The Committee on Finance:
There was referred to the Finance Committee Resolution No. 4
which seeks to amend Section 283 C.M.C., which is the section of our
Constitution and Ordinances under which you are given the authority
to vote such sums for the support of Grand Lodge activities, and to
support the operation of our Masonic Homes as, from time to time,
you may deem necessary.
The resolution would completely eliminate the discretion you now
hold in these matters and fix the amounts at those presently in effect.
The proponent of the resolution gives three reasons for his proposal:
First, that the amount of the per capita is obscurely published; second.
that changes in the per cap ita may be made with little or no forewarning; and, third, that it is inconsistent for certain amounts to be fixed,
while others are left to your discretion.
The Proceedings of Grand Lodge, including action on per capita,
are published annually and a copy sent to every Lodge. The resolution
mentions some difficulty experienced by Masters and Wardens relating
to knowledge of action on per capita. We would simply like to point
out that the information is not only available in the Proceedings , but
also point out that when the matter of per capita is reported by this
Committee on the floor of Grand Lodge, every M aster and Warden
present hears it thoroughly discussed every year without exception, in
complete detail, with reasons given for each recommende d amount before the matter is submitted for vote.

231

It would be impossible to forewarn delegates on the per capita. The
amount to be submitted can be determ ined only during Grand Lodge
after the budget is completed and after you Masters and Wardens and
Past Masters decide what you want to do with resolutions w hich
directly affect the total per capita. Witness last ·y ear when on Thursday
of Grand Lodge Week you voted to distribute our magazine to all
Masons and a 25 cent per capita to s upport it . The only other substantial
per capita increase in recent years also came last year w hen Grand Lodge
approved a 50 cent increase in the per capita for the Masonic Homes.
The record will show that thi·s Committee. in previous ann ual reports
to Grand Lodge, repeatedly forewarned that such an increase would ,
in all probability, be necessary.
The third reason for the proposal, that of inconsistenc y in having
fixed and flexible amounts in the Section, is, in our opinion, without
merit and very impractical in its application. The basic fact is: Control
over this flexibility is at all times in your hands. This resolution would
remove the flexibility. fix all amo unts, and repeal your discretionar y
power. The control will remain in your hands, but with this difference=. In
future any changes would require a 5/ 6ths vote. As stated, we thmk
this would be impractical. and would unnecessari ly tie your hands.
We assume that you wish to support Grand Lodge activities and the
Homes with the funds that are required, and that you have the good
judgment to do so without requiring a 5/ 6ths vote when changes are
req uired.
We strongly recommend a no vote on this resolution.
The Committee on f urisprudence:
This resolution seeks to amend Section 283 of the California Masonic
Code.
As now effective, that section provides that each constituent Lodge
shall make the following contribution s:
I. For every degree conferred during the year the sum of $1 .00.
2. For each Master Mason on the Lodge rolls the sum of SOc.
3. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30 such
per capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for its general activities.
4. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30, such
per capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for the suppor t of the
Masonic Homes of California.
5. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30, the
sum of $1.00 for the use and benefit of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple.
It will be noted that a s it now stands this section leaves to the discretion of you brethren in Grand Lodge assembled. in subsection 3 the
per capita to be levied for the general activities of Grand Lodge. and
in subsection 4 the per capita to be levied for the support of the Masonic
Homes.

232

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Resolution No. 4 proposes that the amount of the per capita for
Grand Lodge general activities be fixed at $1.00, and the per capita for
the Masonic Homes be fixed at $1.50.
While we have grave doubt as to the advisability of establishing
statutory limitations of the per capita for these two purposes, because
any change in these fixed limitations at any session of Grand Lodge
would require formal legislation, this is a matter for other committees
to recommend - namely Policy a nd General Purposes, Finance and
Masonic Homes.
However, Resolution No. 4 is not in proper form. In its subsection
2nd it adds to the present language of subsection 2nd the words: "for
Grand Lodge constitution al requirement s."
After an examination of our Constitution , we find these words, "for
Grand Lodge constitution al requirement s," to be ambiguous and uncertain. We must conclude that the resolution is not in proper form
and recommend that it be not adopted.
A majority voted against the resolution.

USE CHARTE R PHOTOCO PY ON ALL OCCASIO NS
(5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREA S, the original charter is considered the most important
and the most treasured document of a constituent lodge. and
WHEREA S, the original charter as issued by the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California, if lost, stolen or destroyed, can never
be replaced, and
WHEREAS , Prudence directs that every possible precaution and
every possible protection should be afforded the original charter at all
times, and
WHEREA S, the original charter of a constituent lodge should
never be unnecessari ly exposed to any danger of loss. theft, destruction,
accident. injury. etc., and
WHEREA S, Grand Lodge in recognition of the risks involved in
unnecessari ly exposing original lodge charters to any danger has
permitted the use of photostatic copies. instead of the original charter,
at any time - except at the installation of officers, and
WHEREA S, due to recent hazardous experiences in moving the
original charter from its permanent protective place, such as bank vaults.
etc., to transport it to lodge for annual installations , particularly so on
long durations of risks as weekends and holidays, is considered as
undue a nd unnecessary risk to such an important and irreplaceabl e
document,
. ~E IT THEREFO RE RESOLVE D. that photostatic copies of the
ong1nal charter of a constituent lodge, when properly and officially
processed through Grand Lodge, may be used instead of the original
on all occasions, and

233

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVE D. that Section 313a of the California Masonic Code be amended by deleting the words "EXCEPT AT
THE INSTALLA TION OF OFFICERS ."
Respectfully submitted,
PHIL HARRIS, P.M .. No. 215
E.W. BATMAN, P.M., No. 571
L. CAMOZZI, P.M.. No. 564
DAVID P . RussELL, P.M., No. 396
RALPH ADAMS, P.M .. No. 494
WALTER A. HENRICHSE N,

P.M., No. 113

Referred to Committees on Jurispruden ce, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
Resolution No. 5, which would permit the use of a photostat of the
charter on all occasions.
We sympathize with the concern expressed in this Resolution and
urge each of our Masters to heed the injunction of the Installing Officer to carefully preserve the charter and to duly transmit this evidence
of authority to his successor in the Master's chair.
We feel in concert with the Grand Lecturer that the charter should
be used at the annual Install<1tion of Officers. The presence of the
charter is not only consistent with our ritual but also evidences to the
incoming Master the continuing authority of this Grand Lodge. Additionally it is conceivable that unless periodic effort is made to bring
the cha rter to this ceremony this priceless instrument may well be lost.
We believe that the balance of risk weighs heavily to retaining the
present custom.
The Committee on Ritual authorizes us to state that they concur in
this report.
The Committee on Jurispruden ce authorizes us to report that they
see no question of law and will therefore have no report.
We move the adoption of the Resolution but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

OPEN ST A TED MEETING PRIOR TO HOUR FIXED
(6)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVE D. that a new section to be numbered 321.1 be added to
the California Masonic Code to read as follows :
321.1. A Lodge may be opened for a Stated Meeting
prior to the hour fixed in its By-Laws. provided no busi~
ness can be transacted prior to the hour so fixed in the Bylaws.
ELBERT W. DAVIS, P.M., No. 571
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

234

235

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolutio_n No .. 6 would permit a Lodge, if it so desired, to open its
Stated Meetmg pnor to the hour fixed in its by-laws and it is furth
er
provided that no business may be conducted prior to such time.
. At. a Stated Me~ting where dinner or special entertainment is provided 1t ~ay be desirable to open early so that the business portion of
the meetmg may c~mmence immediately after the program. Since the
len~th of the meeting may be a deterrent to participation, this time
saving procedure may induce a member to remain and take part ·
m
this important Masonic function.
The provision that no business may be transacted prior to the time
stated in its by-laws will insure that the brother who has not come to
the program can be on hand for the Lodge business.
The Committee on Jurisprudence advises that the language of the
proposed amendment, if adopted, will accomplish the purpose stated.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes moves the adoption of the resolution and recommends a yes vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated its concurrence in the
recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

DISPLAY OF EMBLEMS
(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand wdge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. a belief in a supreme being is paramount to all the
requirements of Masonic Law, and
WHEREAS. all Master Masons pay their respects to the symbol
represented in the emblem of Blue Lodge Masonry.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that no Master Mason be
per~i~ted to displ.ay any emblem or emblems representing organizations
requm~g .Masonic membership as a prerequisite, or purporting to be
Masonic m nature as defined in appendix ( p. 58, 1964 supplement),
above the square and compass of the Blue Lodge on any sign. building.
tower or anything used for the display of such items.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE A. GRAY. P.M.. No. 442
KENNETH B. BARNES,
HAROLD L. JENSEN, JR ..
P.M., No. 442
P.M .. No. 442
0RNO E. TYLER. P.M., No. 442
HENRY M. KIRKLAND.
CARL B. MULLINS, P.M .. No. 442
P.M .. No.442
SrMMlON B. DAVIS, P.M., No. 442
WILLIAM R. MARKLE,
WILLIAM L. KUYKENDALL,
P.M .. No. 442
P.M., No. 442
HJALMAR F. ROSENQUIST,
FREDE. SHIDELER, P.M., No. 442
DUSTIN D. PARKHURST,
J. W., No. 799
FRANK R. PORATH, P.M., No. 442
P.M., No. 442

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Commercialism.

The Committee on Policg and General Purposes:
This resolution forbids any Master Mason and hence. any Blue
Lod e from displaying any emblem representing an orgamzat10n re. ~ g Masonic membership as a pre-requisite above the square and
d f th d' 1
h'
qu1rm
compass on any sign. building. tower or anyt mg use or e 1sp ay
of such items.
Existing law and our statutes already contain all neces~ary power
and authority to protect against any mis~se of the M~so~1c. emble~.
G nd Lodge is entitled to the sole use of its name and ms1gma. Add1ti~:al legislation limiting the discretion of Grand Lodge in this rega~d
is unnecessary. We believe that the Grand. Lodge .should have d1~­
cretion to resolve individual problems concerning the display of Masonic
emblems under the present law.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes urges a no vote

on the amended resolution.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution proposes that no Master Mason be permitted to
display any emblem or emblems of any organization requiring Masonic
membership as a prerequisite above the square and compass on any
sign. building, tower or anything used for the display of such items.
It is the opinion of the Jurisprudence Committee that the resolution
as presented is couched in confusing language and could be carried to
ridiculous extremes such as to apply to a jeweler who is a Mason and
displays Masonic emblems for sale.
To eliminate this confusion we submit the following substitute
legislation to carry out the intent of the proponents of Resolution No. 7.
NOW. THEREFORE . BE IT RESOLVED that a new section be
added to the California Masonic Code to read as follows:
"334.1 That no Master Mason be permitted to display any
emblem or emblems , representing organizations requiring Masonic membership as a prerequisite, or purporting to be Masonic
in nature above the square and compass of the Blue Lodge on
any sign, building or tower."
In order to place the substitute resolution before Grand Lodge we
move its adoption, but urge a no vote on this resolution.
The Committee on Commercialism indicated its concurrence in the
recommendations.
A majority voted against the resolution.

236

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AMEND SUBSECTION 2 OF SECTIONS 246 AND
403 C.M.C.-GROUP TWO INVESTMENT
(8)

to in this section exceeding twenty per cent ( 20%) of the total market
value of all the cash. bank accounts and securities held.

To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M . of California:
. WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California since 1951 has through
its Investment Committee been making investments under its general
regulations guarded by the theory and philosophy of the "Prudent Man
Rule" as expressed in Sections 246 and 403 C.M .C.: and
WHEREAS. at the time this program was adopted the Grand
1:-odge evide~ced concern and set forth certain ground rules and regulations governing the Committee and the Constituent Lodges; and
. WHEREAS. since that time and from time to time as Federal regulations became more positive and more demanding for filing with governmental regulatory bodies of detailed factual data and full disclosure of
financial information available to the public, this Grand Lodge has
recognized such changes, and has on several occasions amended Sections 246 and 403 C.M.C .. and
WHEREAS. since its inception the Investment Committee has been
restricted in finding sufficient eligible preferred stocks. bonds, debentures
and other evidences of indebtedness for suitable investment in group ( 2)
because of the listing requirements, even though the common stock of
the Corporation is listed and which listing requires the Corporation to
make full and complete public disclosure of financial data;
NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED tha t Subsection 2 of
Sections 246 and 403 be amended to read as follows :

"2.

Up to twenty per cent (20% ) may be invested in:

. "A) 0th.er evidences of indebtedness , which a re or will be fully
listed and registered on a n exchange registered with the Securities a nd
E~ch~n~e Com~ission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this hstmg reqmrement shall not apply to evidences of indebtedness
of corporations whose common stock is eligible for investment under
the provisions of Section 3 ( a ) hereof.
"B) Preferred stocks. which are or will be fully listed and registe~e~ on an excha.nge registered with the Securities a nd Exchange Comm1~s 1on as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall not apply to preferred stocks of corporations whose
common stock is eligible for investment under the provisions of Section
3 (a) hereof.
" No such investments, however, sha ll be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred

237

Respectfully submitted,
PAUL A. PFLUEGER. P.M., No. 370 }ACK F. BowLEY, P.M., No. 370
FRANK HARWELL, JR..
EDGAR
STEWART, JR.,
P.M.• No. 528
P.M .. No. 529
JOHN M. GORDON, P.M .. No. 202
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

v.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This Resolution, although involving somewhat technical and extensive language and the proposed amendment of Section 246 and 403
of the C.M.C.. is essentially very simple in nature. It merely permits
the purchase for Masonic investment purposes of preferred stocks, and
evidences of indebtedness of corporations whose common stock is fully
listed and registered on a National Securities Exchange. even though
the preferred stocks, or evidences of indebtedness, may not themselves be
so listed and registered.
It would appear that necessary and proper safeguards for investments are maintained under the proposal and that the policy expressed
under the "Prudent Man Rule," adopted by Grand Lodge in 1951, is
also being maintained.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes moves adoption
of the Resolution and recommends a Yes vote. We are authorized to
state that the Cpmmittees on Jurispruden ce and Finance concur; and
that the Committee on Jurisprudence states that the Resolution, if
adopted, will effectuate the purposes of the proponents.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

FURNISH TROWEL AT LODGE OPTION
(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the importa nce of the symbolism of the trowel and
the charge given the candidate regarding it, and
WHEREAS. it has been a more or less unchallenged custom, at
the option of the Lodge to present a trowel, until recently, and
WHEREAS, many brethren desire to retain this custom, and
WHEREAS, no Lodge has suffered "apparent" financial difficulty
because of its choice to present a trowel to a candidate,
THEREFORE, be it resolved that paragraph AB of the Section
409 California Masonic Code be changed to read, "The presentation

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

posses of a trowel to a candid ate in the third degree , for his perman ent
same."
sion. shall be at the option of the Lodge to furnish
Respec tfuJly submit ted,
ARTHUR PILANT, S. W., No. 505
380
DENE C. CooK, M .. No.
D WILLIAMS,
HOWAR
,
NGDON
LA
WILLIAM R.
No. 505
..
W
J.
586
No.
M ..
ARTHUR H. REED, P.M., N o. 505
LEROY G. CoNNNELLY,
ARTHUR B. ROCKHOLD,
P.M., No. 604
P.M.. No. 505
604
No.
FRANKE. DuNN, P.M.,
M I. MILLER,
WILLIA
604
No.
P.M.,
,
S1MON TOLLE
P.M.. No. 505
JoHN KAHLER, P.M .. No. 604
WARNER STENBERG, M., No. 604
JoHN D . PARSONS, P .M .. N o. 604
JESS HAWKINS, P.M., No. 604
GEORGE RUPPERT, P.M .. No. 604
S w. THURMAN,
THOMA
604
No.
..
J. EDWARD SWAIM, P .M
No. 505
..
P.M
604
No.
.•
P.M
.
ELMER DUDEK
. P .M .• No. 604
CURRIE
P.
A.
N.
HAUSE
HoMRIG
G.
S
THOMA
P.M., No. 241
WS.
BARRO
A.
H.
P.M.. No. 241
S,
THOMA
R.
ES
CHARL
B. J. VICKERS. M., No. 241
241
No.
..
P.M
241
GEORGE KINZER,S.W .. No.
AUSTIN 0. HICKS, M., No. 505
Referr ed to Comm ittees on Jurispr udence , and on Policy and General Purpos es.
The Comm ittee on Policy and General Purposes:
to a
This resolut ion would permit a Lodge to presen t a trowel
.
Degree
candid ate in the Third
that
Resolu tion No. 9 is wholly unnece ssary. It has never been held
emn
decisio
1964
The
a Lodge cannot presen t a trowel to a candid ate.
the
of
6
No.
n
Decisio
hold.
so
bodied in C.M.C . Section 409.ab does not
t a
presen
can
Lodge
the
that
clear
it
presen t Grand Master makes
fund.
ment
refresh
the
from
made
be
must
nt
trowel. but that payme
Presen tation of a trowel is optiona l, not manda tory.
be
Your Committee. howev er. feels that Section 411 C.M.C . should
of
funds
l
genera
the
from
amend ed to permit payme nt for the trowel
fund.
ment
the Lodge rather tha n from the refresh
Your Comm ittee so recomm ends.
The Comm ittee on Jurispr udence will presen t the legislation.
The Comm ittee on Jurispruden ce:
1964
Your Comm ittee on Jurispr udence is of the opinion that the
t
presen
the
of
6
No.
n
Decisio
and
Heald
aster
M
Grand
Decisio n of
of
411
and
410
Grand Master are correct interpr etation s of Section s
the Califor nia Mason ic Code and not within any excepti on.
and
In view of the recomm endatio n of the Comm ittee on Policy
lieu
in
ion
resolut
ute
substit
ng
followi
the
offer
Genera l Purpos es, we
9:
No.
of Resolu tion

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

239

"RESO LVED : That Section 411 C.M.C . be amend ed by adding
thereto the following paragr aph :
in
A Lodge may purcha se a trowel for presen tation to a candid ate
Lodge.
the
the Third Degree and pay for same from the genera l funds of
.
BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED : That paragr aph 409.ab C.M.C
Master
Grand
the
of
6
No.
n
be deleted from the Code, and that Decisio
be not codified."
Adopte d as amend ed 5/ 6 vote.

TITLE OF PAST MAST ER
RETR OACT IVE PRIO R TO SEPT EMBE R 29, 1961
(10)
F. & A. M. of California:
Lodge
Grand
ipful
To the Most Worsh

WHER EAS, in 1961, Section 490 of the Califor nia Mason ic Code
er, that
was amend ed by adding the following words: "provi ded, howev
r,
charte
a
in
named
or
elected
ly
where a Master , who has been regular
as
serving
while
dies
Lodge,
ed
charter
a
of
and installe d as Master
a Past
Master . he may by resolut ion of his Lodge be design ated as
Master of said Lodge, " and
nia
WHER EAS, by the provisi ons of Section 782 of the Califor
the
to
tive
retroac
not
was
d.
Mason ic Code the amend ment, as adopte
in
held
Lodge
Grand
of
on
unicati
Comm
l
close of the I 12th Annua
an
shing
establi
by
y
inequit
an
causing
thereby
Septem ber, 1961 ,
and
artificial line of demarc ation betwee n Master s who died before
after Septem ber 29. 1961. and
disWHER EAS. this condition of subdiv ision has created a
rs,
brothe
ng
deservi
and
d
devote
many
crimin atory situatio n, in which
been
have
.
Lodges
their
of
r
Maste
as
serving
who have died while
Lodges
denied the honor of being design ated as Past Master s by their
of the
date
e
effectiv
solely becaus e their death occurr ed prior to the
aforesa id Code amend ment;
of
NOW , THER EFOR E. BE IT RESO LVED . that Section 490
in"
words
the
adding
by
ed
amend
be
the Califor nia Mason ic Code
the
cluding a Master who died before Septem ber 29, 1961 ," to make
r,
howeve
d.
aforesa id Section 490 read , in part. as follows: " . . . provide
29,
ber
Septem
before
died
that where a Master , including a Master who
and in1961, who has been regular ly elected or named in a charter ,
,
Master
as
serving
while
dies
Lodge,
ed
stalled as Master of a charter
of
Master
Past
a
as
ated
design
be
Lodge
his
of
ion
he may by resolut
said Lodge ... "
Respec tfully submit ted.
ALBERT F. SIMMONS, M .. No. 368
WILLIAM E. S. JARRETT, S. W., No. 368
ROBERT N . BATES, J. W., No. 368
Jurispr udence , and on Policy and Genon
ittees
Comm
to
ed
Referr
eral Purpos es.

240

241

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This amendment would correct an existing inequity among Masters
who die during their term of office by adding the words "including a
Master who died before September 29, 1961" to Section 490 of the
California Masonic Code.
In 1961 a Lodge was authorized, by resolution . to designate a
Master who died during his term of office as a Past Master. Since this
amendment was not made retroactive it does not apply to those Masters
who died prior to September 29, 1961. and thus creates two classes
of Masters who have died while in office. Such distinction was, we
believe, contrary to the intent of Grand Lodge in adopting the 1961
amendment. There should be a single application of the rule to all
those who fall within its provisions.
The Committee on Jurisprudence advises that the language of the
proposed amendment, if adopted, will accomplish the purpose of its
sponsors.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes moves the adoption
of Resolution No. l 0 and recommends a yes vote.
The Committee on f urisprudence indicated its concurrence in the
recommendation.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

application for the degrees of M asonry may be presented by any
person otherwise qualified to receive the degrees , if such person
shall reside within twenty-five miles of the Lodge room of the
Lodge to w hich such application is addressed. If such applicant
shall reside in territory within the concurrent jurisdiction of two
or more Lodges, pursuant to the terms of this section or otherwise,
then the procedure to be followed in acting upon such application
shall be that prescribed in cases of concurrent jurisdiction. (Former RD. Section 218.)"
Respectfully submitted,
L. M. HEWS , J.W., No. 484
484
No.
P.M.,
RICE,
H. S.
ROBERT L. HARMAN,
R. A. MANNING, P.M., No. 484
P.M., No. 484
RO BERT F. DONLAN,
CARL E. MILLER, P.M., No. 484
P.M.• No. 484
J. R. KNAPP, P.M .• No. 484
Gus S. RussEL. W.M., No. 484
JoHN H. T ENNEY, S. W., No. 484
RO BERT F. B RAENDLIN,
P .M.No.484
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General P urposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes reports as follows:
This resolution would increase the present ten mile residence requirement as set fo rth in Section 522 C.M.C. to twenty-five miles.
If adopted, this resolution would create a circle fifty miles in diameter
within which each Lodge could accept applications for the degrees
without any waiv~r of jurisdiction being required.
In the San Francisco area for example a Lodge situated in Oakland
could accept without waiver an applicant residing on the peninsula
south to Palo Alto as well as north of San Rafael and Vallejo. In the
Los Angeles area a Lodge in Whittier could accept applications without waiver from the entire San Gabriel Valley, the greater part of Los
Angeles City. the many communities of Orange County and the cities
of the Long Beach complex.
W e believe that Masonry thrives best and serves best where it is
an integral part of the civic and community life. Our Public Schools
programs and our Constitu tion Observance programs largely revolve
about the community.
To fragment the identity of our Lodges will not in our opinion
strengthen either the Lodge as a unit or Masonry as an institution .
The Committee on Jurisprudence has authorized this Committee to
report that they see no point of law involved and will therefore have
no report.
We move the adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
A ma jority voted against the resolution.

RESIDENCE WITHIN TWENTY-FIVE MILES OF
LODGE ROOM

(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, rapidly changing population densities and modern
travel facilities require many men to travel hitherto unheard-of distances to their places of business. and
WHEREAS. it is sometimes more convenient for a prospective
candidate to attend a Lodge closer to his business than to his home
residence, and
WHEREAS, a more important factor than distance in the promotion of good attenda nce of new candidates is the existence of strong ties
of friendship between himself and other members, and
WHEREAS. the present ten-mile limit residence requirement set
forth in Section 522 C.M.C. needlessly delays the acceptance of many
otherwise excellent candidates,
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that Section 522 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"522. Residence within twenty-five miles of Lodge room.
Anything in these Ordinances to the contrary nothwithstanding, without any waiver of any sort being sought or obtained, an

242

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR DEGREES
(AMEND QUESTION 15)
(12)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. a careful study of the Constitution and Ordinances
of the Grand Lodge fails to disclose that before a Master Mason may
be appointed or elected to any Office in a Constituent Lodge, or even
the Grand Lodge. he must have given satisfactory evidence, by strict
examination in open Lodge. that he is entirely proficient and wellqualified in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason it
seems unrealistic, to say the least, to impose on him a requirement for
such proficiency before he can apply for or receive any Degree or be
initiated in any Lodge. Order or Organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT. Question 15 of Section 527 of the Ordinances of the Grand Lodge, which now reads as
follows:
"Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any
degree or be initiated in any Lodge. Order or Organization, the
prerequisite for membership wherein is that a person be a Master
Mason, until you have given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge, that you are entirely proficient and
well-qualified in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master
Mason and in no event within twelve months after you have
received the Degree of Master Mason?"
BE AMENDED, to read as follows:
" Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any
Degree or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or Organizatian, the
prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a M aster
Mason, within twelve months after you have received the Degree
of Master Mason?"
Respectfully submitted ,
RALPH C. HINE, P.M., No. 242
Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. I 2 proposes to delete from the application for the
degrees of Masonry a portion of Question No. 15 o f Section No. 527
Ordinances of the Grand Lodge. Question No. I 5 states that the candidate agrees not to petition any other M asonic organizations until he has
passed his Third Degree proficiency nor within twelve months time. The
proposed deletion is as follows. "until you have given satisfactory
evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge. that you are entirely

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

243

proficient and well-qualified in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree
of Master Mason?"
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes the Third
Degree proficiency to be a desirable attainment of a Master Mason. A
First Degree proficiency is required before the candidate is passed to
the degree of Fellow Craft, and a Second Degree proficiency before he
ca? b: raised to. the su b!f~e ~egree of Master Mason. These profic1enc.1.es are designed to imprint upon the memory. wise and serious
truths and although this same candidate was required to have a First
and Second Degree proficiency, there is no evidence he will remember
th: very importa~t lessons taught in the Third Degree without a proficiency. The Third Degree proficiency is. in effect, a diploma showing
proof of lessons lear~ed and an affidavit that this M aster Mason is ready
to absorb more teachmgs from other bodies.
. We are authorized to state that the Committee on Jurisprudence
will make no report because the resolution, if adopted, would accomplish
the purpose of the sponsor.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore moves
adoption of the resolution but urges a no vote.
The Committee on R itual indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

BALLOTING
(13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. every application for degrees and for affiliation requir:s t~e ~ignature of two members of the Lodge with which the
app~1cat1on .1s filed certifying that each recommendor is personally acqua1~ted with the applicant and that he has s trong reasons to believe
that if elected the applicant will reflect honor on our ancient I nstitution,
and
WHEREAS. the applicant must also supply two other references,
and
W!'fER~A~ . every application must following receipt be referred
to an mvest1gatmg committee of three whose duty it is to make strict
e_xamination into the moral. mental. physical and other proper qualiJkations of the applicant and report thereon to the Master of the Lodge, and
~HEREAS , no application may be ballotted upon unless it has
received a favorable report of the investigating committee, and
WHEREAS, it must be presumed that the investigating committee
has duly and truly performed its duties, and
WHEREAS under the California Masonic Code a unanimous
ball~t .of the members present is required to elect for degrees or for
affiliation and consequently a single member of a Lodge may deny the

244

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

wishes of the vast majority and impose his solitary, and perhaps
arbitrary and non- Masonic will upon the entire Lodge, and
WHERE AS . the requireme nt of a unanimou s ballot is undemocr atic
in that the will of the majority may not prevail
NOW THEREF ORE BE IT RESOLV ED. that Sections 536, 537
and 538 of the California Masonic Code, and any other code sections
necessary to be amended to accord herewith, be amended so as to
provide that an applicatio n for degrees and for affiliation shall not be
rejected unless three or more cubes appear in the ballot box.
Respectfu lly submitted .
MAURICE A. HARB AND, P.M., N o. 120
Referred to Committees on Jurisprude nce, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committe e on Jurispruden ce:
In presenting this report, your Committe e on Jurisprude nce desires
to raise and to rely upon a point of order.
This resolution is an attempt to abrogate the requireme nt of unanimous ballot on applicatio ns for membership by providing that a~ application "shall not be rejected unless three or more cubes appear i.n the
b allot box." Your Committe e is of the opinion that this would v10late
the Ancient Landmark s, and that the Grand Master should declare
the resolution rejected on that ground. The powers of the Grand Lodge
itself are limited by a strict adherence to the Ancient Landmark s of the
Order, and every member of this Grand Lodge, on his installatio n as
Master, agreed that it is not in the power of any man or body of men
to make innovation s in the body of Masonry.
Dr. Albert G. Mackey defined the landmarks as "those ancient and
therefore universal customs o f the Craft which either gradually grew
into opera tion as rules of action, or if once enacted by any compete~t
authority were enacted at a period so re~ote t.~~~ no account of their
origin is to be found in the records of history.
A custom or rule of
action to constitute a landmark must have existed from time whereof
the memory of man runneth not to the contrary." And "as a Gra~d
Lodge has no power to enact a landmark, so it has no power to abolish
or detract from one."
In the Old Regulatio ns of 1721, it was provided in Article VI. as
follows :
"But no man can be entered a Brother in any particular Lodge,
or admitted to be a member thereof, without the unanimou s consent of all the members of that Lodge then present, when the candidate is proposed, and their consent formally asked by the Master; and they are to signify their consent or dissent in their own
prudent way, either virtually or in form , .but wit~ unanimity ; nor
is this inherent privilege subject to a d1spensat10n; because the

members of a particular Lodge are the best judges of it; and if a
fractious member should be imposed on them, it mig ht spoil their
harmony, or hinder their freedom, or even break or disperse the
Lod ge." ( C.M.C., App .. p. 355)
This was affirmed by our Grand Lodge in I 853 in the following
lang uage:

245

"But the ancient Constituti ons point out the req uisites which
a candidate for Masonry must possess; one of w hich is that no
man shall be made a Ma son without the unanimou s consent of
the members present of the Lodge to which he may petition. The
opposition of one member is sufficient to reject a candidate. and,
say the ancient Constituti ons. 'this is an inherent right, not subject to a dispensation '."
This was an "inherent right" even in 1721, which means that it
was an essential, a permanen t and inseparabl y existing right; not derived
from another or received from another; and therefore was co-existen t
with Freemaso nry itself.
The existence o f this rule in 1721 as an "inherent privilege" means
that it is actually more ancient than certain of the Landmarks mentioned
in Dr. Mackey's list of twenty~flve. While not so mentioned , it is
neverthele ss recognized by his Eighth Landmark relating to the pre~
rogative of the Grand Master to make Masons at sight "in a regular
Lodge by unanimou s consent of the members present."
However, D r. Mackey did not claim that the 25 Landmarks in his
list were exclusi've of others, and several years before 1850 when Dr.
Mackey suggested his list, the Grand Lodge of New York had stated
31 "cardinal principles " which were considered by it as Ancient Landmarks, one of which was "that a candidate must be proposed in open
Lodge at a stated meeting and can only be accepted at a stated meeting
following, by the scrutiny of a secret ballot and by an unanimou s vote";
and it went on to say that "besides these, there are various landmarks
which constitute the framewor k of the governme nt of the F raternity"
and various duties and rights more fully set forth in the "Ancient
Cha rges" which are a part of the C onstitution s of Freemason ry. T here
are many other jurisdictio ns which hold that the "Old Charges" contain
the Landmark s.
We therefore recommen d that the Grand Master declare this resolution rejected because it is in violation of the Ancient Landmark s of
the Order.
Following the report of the Committe e on Jurisprude nce the Grand
Master declared the resolution rejected because it is in violation of the
Ancient Landmark s of the Order.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

246

247

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SECRETARY TO SEND NOTICE
(15)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

RITUAL (MUSIC AND PROPS)
(14)
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:
f the California Masonic
.
d L d
Under the provisions of S ectmn 781 o
Code the following amendment to the Ordinances of the Gran 'd o t~e,
posed for cons1 era iont
. ·
f C l"f
•
b h ld
a I orma, is pro
Free and Accepted Masons o
en a
f th Grand Lodge to e o 1965.
. .
11
b
e
o
n
Commun1cat1o
Annual
at the next
·
.
Monday Octo er
·
,
the City of San Francisco. commencing on
"RESO LVED, that Section 554v be repealed."
Respectfully sub mitted,
WiLSON O . WADE, P.M .. No. 328
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

..
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The
repealet·
b~
554v
Section
that
Resolution 14 reads: "Resolved
eca~se
Code
Mas~nic
California
the
of
section
reference is not to a
there is no Section 554v in that Code. The reference IS ~ ~nl annsta~1on
1
e ow h ec ~n
or paragraph which the editors of the code have place
554 and given the letter V. The annotations in our code lor t ose dm
n ourG co de
such code
f
h .
the numerous state codes are not a part o any
the are a condensed statement by the editors of w at some . ran
to
.d about the application of the section
h
.
y
d M t
G
Master or committee as sa1
some particular set of fac ts. In this instance the then . ranhe se~~:~
f
said "A Lodge may use a musical score and orchestra. i~ t
section but any music should be purely incidental a~d limited to e~er:""Z
.. His language could scarcely have een mor~ g E .
1
~=~:t~ti·o~ '14 does not propose any change in either dire~:1~:~v d~;~
if it were adopted, every section of the Code w.o~ld readd as I
uld be added Masonic traditions an customs wou
f
~~ ~~; :~~1~ona;v~hey were before and have been since that Grand
ke Any debate on the resolution would serve no pburpose.
t eport upon ecause
.
M as t er spo ·
h"
There is nothing as to policy for t is committee o r
no change in policy is proposed.
Therefore. I move that resolution 14 be laid on the table.

Id

The Committee on Jurisprudence made no report.
The Committee on Ritual concurred in the recommendatio n
by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Grand Lodge tabled the resolution.

made

WHEREAS. by complying with Section 579 of the California
Masonic Code it causes the Secretary extra work and the Lodge unnecessary expense; and
WHEREAS. it seems to be the same Brethren who are notified each
year; and
WHEREAS. a Brother should know that he is delinquent if he
is still interested in Masonry and wants to be a Mason; and
WHEREAS. a Brother has two years after being suspended, and
this should be ample time, to pay his arrearages of dues and be restored
without any questions being asked;
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that Section 579 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"579. SECRETARY TO SEND NOTICE. In case any
member shall have refused or neglected to pay his regular dues
during a period of twelve months, the Secretary shall notify him,
BY ORDINARY MAIL. deposited in the U. S. Postoffice addressed to him at his last known address. at least sixty ( 60)
days in advance, that unless at the Stated Meeting specified
either his dues be paid, or sickness or inability to pay be shown
as the cause of such refusal or neglect. he will be suspended from
all the rights and privileges of Masonry."
Respectfully submitted,
LAWRENCE J. CAMOZZJ, P.M .. No. 564
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes that when a member shall have ref used or
neglected to pay his regular dues during a period of 12 months, the
Secretary shall notif.y him by ordinary mail at least 60 days in advance
of his proposed suspension. This would eliminate the present requirement that notification be by registered letter or certified mail.
Your Committee feels the statement of the Committee on Jurisprudence in 1873 is still true:
Masonic law imposes on every member of a Lodge the duty of paying his dues and prescribes a penalty for wilfully neglecting payment.
Before imposition of such penalty it is a basic tenet of justice that the
accused shall have his day in court and that he shall not be subject to
penalty until he has been advised of the facts against him .
It is also true that, while the member has an obligation to his Lodge
in the payment of dues, the Lodge has an obligation to be certain that

248

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

dues.
the memb er is delibe rately neglig ent in failing to pay his
memb er
It is imperative. therefore. that the Lodge be certain that the
e this
provid
s
alway
has, in fact, been notified. Ordin ary mail will not
assura nce.
legisla tion,
The Committee on Jurisprudence advise s that the propo sed
nent.
propo
the
of
es
purpos
the
plish
if adopte d, would accom
the adopYour Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purposes moves
vote.
no
a
mends
recom
tion of the resolution and
A major ity voted agains t the resolu tion.

BOA RDS OF RELIEF
(MA NDA TOR Y MEM BERS HIP)
(16)
rnia:
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
is a duty
sed
WHE REAS , we all know that to relieve the distres
"we take
said
have
s
incum bent upon all Masons. Far too many Lodge
ends
tion
obliga
their
that
belief
care of our own" and feel secure in the
there.
and has
WHE REAS , Mason ry today is a univer sal organi zation
should
ion
no bound aries. Every Lodge in Califo rnia witho ut except
Many
.
Relief
of
s
Board
contri bute in some degree to the suppo rt of our
but a
Relief.
of
Board
a
from
ts
Lodges do not receive direct benefi
ry in
Mason
of
behalf
on
is
m
perfor
great amoun t of the work they
ts.
benefi
direct
ing
receiv
s
Lodge
of
group
or
Lodge
k
genera l. no specil
Calithe
of
THER EFOR E BE IT RESO LVED . that Sectio n 603
Face delete .
fornia Mason ic Code be amend ed to read as follows: (Bold
Under line add.)
concu rrent
SECT ION 603 BOAR DS OF RELIE F. Lodge s having
proper ly
of
se
purpo
the
for
Relief
of
Board
a
jurisdiction may form
orphan s,
and
relievi ng the distres s of visiting Mason s, their widow s
ed by
pprov
a
and
elves
under a compa ct to be agreed upon among thems
in
where
ve,
effecti
ing
becom
the Grand Lodge or Grand Maste r before
the
of
ses
expen
the
paying
for
,
things
they may provid e among other
, that it be
work in such manne r as shall seem prope r. Furthe rmore
be a memb er
manda tory that all Lodge s in metrop olitan and urban areas
consen t and
the
with
of a Board of Relief. the Board of Contr ol shall.
l any Lodge
by directi on of the Grand Maste r, have the power to compe
Board of
the
within this Grand Jurisd iction to become a memb er of
ts of
interes
the
serve
best
will
Relief neares t lo its place of meeti ng that
the
of
ts
interes
the Craft; and such Board of Contro l may. when the
the consen t
Craft will be subser ved thereb y, cause to be organi zed with
Relief in
of
s
of and by directi on of the Grand Maste r, additi onal Board
report
shall
s
board
such places as shall be deeme d advisa ble. Such

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

249

and disbur seannua lly to the Grand Lodge , showi ng their work, receip ts
expen ded
been
has
any.
if
what,
tely
.w.ents in detail, specif ying separa
s, therein
orphan
and
s
widow
their
s,
Mason
for relief of non-affiliated
f, if
thereo
much
how
and
,
ctions
jurisdi
other
and
this
of
sojour ning,
its
of
any
priate
appro
not
any, has been repaid . This Grand Lodge will
shown
have
shall
it
unless
nor
,
ing
funds to any such board not so report
consti tuting it.
that its actual expen ses ha ve been borne by the Lodge s
Respe ctfully submi tted,
GEORG E C. CoURR EGES, P.M .. No. 349
Gener al
Referr ed to Comm ittees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and
Purpo ses, and to the Board of Contro l.
Resolu tion No. 16 was withd rawn by its propo nent.

TRIA L RECO RDS
(C.M .C. 692.4 )
(17)
rnia:
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of Califo
and in
WHE REAS , it ha s been the practic e both in Grand Lodge
or
record
trial
a
of
al
remov
the
allow
the subord inate Lodge s not to
inate
subord
any
or
Lodge
Grand
of
y
custod
the
any part thereo f from
thereo f to
Lodge nor to furnish copies of a trial record or any part
availa ble
s
record
trial
the accuse d or ap.y other per·s on, but to make said
writte n
having
person
other
or
r,
for inspection by the accuse d, accuse
s also
record
said
make
to
and
r
accuse
author ity from said accuse d or
,
master
the
by
ized
author
person
other
any
by
availa ble for inspec tion
secret ary. Grand Maste r or Grand Secret ary.
es that the
ANO WHE REAS , Sectio n 692.4 C.M.C ., now provid
, which
section
that
under
record
accuse d may be given a copy of the
of the
s
ember
non-m
s
variou
by
same
the
makes possib le the notice of
Craft;
amend ed
BE lT RESO LVED . that Sectio n 692.4 Mason ic Code be
"two
words
the
as follows : In the first long senten ce of said section
g
readin
ce
senten
second
the
~opies" is chang ed to "one copy" and
,
record
the
of
copy
a
for
t
reques
n
writte
Shoul d the accuse d make a
ed.
repeal
hereby
is
him''
to
given
be
may
copies
one of these
Respe ctfully submi tted,
ALBER T F. Ross, P.M., No. 254
and GenReferr ed to Comm ittees on Jurisp rudenc e, and on Policy
_
.
.
ses.
eral Purpo

250

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

.

This resolution, No. 17. as amended would_delete from Sect10n 6_9~.4
C.M.C., relating to default cases in Masonic charg~s, the provision
allowing the accused to obtain a copy of the proceedings.
f
Since the release of such a copy would endanger the secrecy o :
Masonic proceeding, and ·since the accused has, in the case sup.Pose .
already defaulted, there would appear to be no re~son to require the
Lodge to prepare an additional copy of the proceedings.
Your Committee on Poky and General Purposes fa vors the amended
resolution and urges a yes vote.

The Committee on f urisprudence:

.

This resolution proposes an amendment to Section ?92.4,. which
deals with instances of charges of unmasonic conduct, in wh_Kh the
accused. after being served with a copy of the charge. a~d notice that
he should file his plea of guilty or not guilty thereto, fails to file such
pleaThe section as it stands provides that on his application, after having
so failed to answer, the accused may ask for and be given a copy of the
whole record, including the Master's findings, the penalty fixed by the
Master, and his report to the Grand Secretary..
f h
We see no reason for giving to a defaulting accused a copy o t e
Master's findings and conclusion. The accused who fails to answe~ ~as
had his chance to be heard and no good would be served by giving
him a copy of the whole record.
.
.
We believe that the effect which Brother Ross intends, and which
we approve, would be arrived at if the Grand Lodge would adopt the
following amended Resolution:
.
.
BE IT RESOLVED that Section 692.4 of the California
· Code be amended by substituting in the first sentence
..
"
d
M asontc
thereof for the words "two copies," the words one copy an
the eli~ination from the second sentence thereo f the words
" should th e accused make a written request ~or.~ copy of the
record, one of these copies may be given to him.
.
This amendment of Resolution No. 17 is concurred m by Brother
Ross Chairman of the Committee on Grievances.
We move the adoption of the amended resolution and recommend
a yes vote.
Adopted as amended 5/6 vote.

VOTE REQUIRED
(C.M.C. 782)
(18)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California: ..
WHEREAS. all legislative, executive and judicial power of The
Mogt Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the

251

State of California" is extended to the voting members of Grand Lodge
as set forth in Section 16 of the California Masonic Code; and
WHEREAS. the transaction of business in Grand Lodge is upon
written resolution and the present voting requ irement under Section 782
of the California Masonic Code requ ires a five-sixth or 83 VJ% vote
to approve any resolution resulting in one-sixth or 1673 % vote governing the transaction of business, such voting percentages having made
it difficult if not impossible to enact popular resolutions and to disapprove unpopular decisions, resu lting in Grand Lodge ha ving little
value as a legislative body; and
WHEREAS. the Grand Lodge is based upon democratic principles
and its early leaders were largely responsible for the American system
of government wherein a majority or a 73 vote is required for passage
of legislation; and
WHEREAS. it is believed that it is desirable that no greater voting
requirement be required of members of Grand Lodge than mem bers of
Federal or State Government and that the Ordina nces o f Grand Lodge
should be amended to make uniform such voting procedures i n our
Masonic Bodies;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 782 o f the
California Masonic Code should me amended as follows: (Bold F ace
delete. Underline add).
SECTION 782. Vote required. Upon report of said Committee, if
five sixths two-thirds of the votes shall be in favor of such proposed
amendment it shall be declared adopted; and, from and after the dose
of that Communicatio n, it shall become a part of these Ordinances.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK T. SMEI;ER, M .. No. 268
RUPERT I. JONES, P .M., No. 61
NEELD D. TANKSLEY,
THOMAS J. WHITTEN ,
S.W .. No. 61
S.W., No. 268
C LARENCE A . SEVERIN,
W. PAUL KELL, J.W., No. 268
P.M .• No. 61
THOMAS v. GIANTVALLEY,
FRED B. HACK, P.M .. No. 61
P.M., No. 268
D. CHALLGREN, f .W. , No. 61
MELVIN L. JoRY, P .M.. No. 268
RALPH W. WINTERS,
R. D. GI LMORE, P.M., No. 268
P.M., No. 61
GEO. THOMSON, P.M .. No. 268
BYRO N B. BoLFING, P.M .. No. 268 CHARLES D. SMALL, P.M., No. 61
LEABERT c. HAWKINSON,
CLAUDE R. MACKAY, M., No. 489
P.M., No. 61
LARs B. O LANDER, S. W., No. 489
PETER A. ANDERSEN,
A . VAN Nrnuw, J. W .. N o. 489
P.M., N o. 489
Roy H. PARKINSON, P.M. , No. 489
SERGIE N. IVANOFF, P.M., No. 489
E. L. DAYMUDE, P.M .. No. 489
GEORGE c. COURREGES,
P.M.. N o. 349
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, a nd on Policy and G enera} Purposes.

252

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
ents o.n
requuem
vote
the
in
change
a
proposes
Resolutio n No. 18
It is
Lodge.
Grand
before
brought
es
ordinanc
the
amendm ents to
reduce.cl
?e
requ'.red
now
)
%
(83YJ
vote
h
five~sixt
the
that
proposed
to a two~thirds vote ( 66~ % ) . Section No. 782 Californ ia Masonic
Code has been effective for many years and most legislation dee~ed
essential has received the necessar y five,sixth vote upon presenta tion.
To sacrifice this salutary safeguar d against legislatin g in response to
emotiona l appeals seems to your committe e to be unwise and unsound
policy.
The Committee on Jurisprudence authoriz es us to state that the
proposed amendm ent, if adopted, will achieve the purpose of the
·
d
sponsors .
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes moves a option
of the resolutio n but urges a no vote.
On d emand by more than three members, a written ballot was taken.
The result was 267 for, 1273 against.

VOTE REQUI RED
( C.M.C. 783)
(19)
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. 6 A . M. of California: ..

WHERE AS, all legislative, executive and judicial power of The
Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of Californ ia" is extended to the voting members of Grand Lodge
as set forth in Section 16 of the Californ ia Masonic Code; and
WHERE AS. the Grand Lodge is based upon democra tic principle s
and its early leaders were largely responsib le for the America n system
of governm ent wherein a majority vote is required for passage of most
.
legislation; and
WHERE AS, it is believed that it is desirable that no greater votmg
requirem ent be required of members of Grand Lodge than members of
Federal or State Governm ent and that the Ordinan ces o f Grand Lodge
should be amended to make uniform such voting procedur es in our
Masonic Bodies: and
WHERE AS. it is believed that if after the expiratio n of one year
and the opportun ity for consider ation of an amendm ent has been
afforded to members and a majority still favors the change then a
majority vote should prevail;
THERE FORE BE IT RESOL VED, that Section 783 of the
Californ ia Masonic Code should be amended as follows: (Bold Face
delete, Underlin e add)
SECTIO N 783. When two·lhir ds majority vote may carry. If the
vote in favor of such proposed amendm ent be less than that na~ed in
the precedin g section, but there be a majority therefor, _it shall lie over
for one year, and shall be publishe d with the proceedm gs, under the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

253

caption of "Propose d Amendm ent to the Ordinan ces"; and if, at the
next succeedi ng Annual Communication, it shall receive two-thir ds
a majority of the votes given thereon, it shall be declared adopted; and
from and a fter the close of that Commun ication, it shall become a
part of the Ordinan ces.
Respect£ ully submitte d,
MELVIN L. JoRY, P.M .. No. 268
GEORGE C. CoURREGES,
GEO. THOMSON, P.M .. No. 268
P.M .. No. 349
R. D. GILMORE, P.M., No. 268
CLAUDE R. MACKAY, M .. No. 489
BYRON B. BoLFING, P.M., No. 268
489
No.
W.,
LARS B. OLANDER , S.
I. JoNES, M .. No. 61
RUPERT
489
No.
..
W
J.
N1ww,
A. VAN
NEELD D. TANKSLEY,
PETER A. ANDERSEN,
S. W., No. 61
P.M., No. 489
D
489
No.
. CHA LLGREN, J. W ., N o. 6 1
RoY H. PARKINSON, P.M.,
E A. S EVERIN,
CLARENC
No.189
P.M.,
,
SERGIE N. IVANOFF
P.M., No. 61
E. L. DAYMUDE, P.M., No. 489
LEABERT C. HAWKINSON,
FRANK T. SMEIDER, M., No. 268
P.M .. No. 61
THOMAS J. WHITTEN,
CHARLES D. SMALL, P.M .. No. 61
S. W., No. 268
RALPH W. WINTERS,
268
No.
W. PAUL KELL, J.W.,
P.M., No. 61
LLEY,
GIANTVA
V.
THOMAS
B. HACK, P .M .. No. 61
FRED
268
No.
..
P.M
Referred to Committ ees on Jurisprud ence, and on Policy and General Purposes .
The Comm ittee on Policy and General Purposes:
. Our present ordinanc es provide that if a proposed amendment re,
ce1ve i:nore than ? majority vote but less than the required 5/ 6 vote it
shall he over for one year to the next Annual Commun ication at which
time a 3-)rds vote shall be sufficient for adoption .
The proposed Resoluti on No. 19 would reduce the required vote
at the second commun ication to a simple majority .
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes believes that
pres~nt regulatio~s have proven effective for many years. The 3-)rds
requirem ent provides a desirable stability in our Californ ia Masonic
Code and has not prevente d the passage of sound and reasonab le
legislation in the past.
The proposed change reducing the required vote to a simple major,
~ty could permit too easy a passage of needless and unnecess ary changes
an our procedur es.
As a matter of policy therefore , your Committ ee is opposed to this
change.
The Committee on Jurisprudence authorize s us to state that the
proposed amendm ent, if adopted, will accompli sh the purpose of the
sponsors .
We move the adoption of the resolutio n but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolutio n.

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

254

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

BAL LOT BOX LEC TUR E

(20)
M. of California:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A.
the newl y raised
WHE REA S. there is a distin ct need to acqua int
and a lectur e on the
Broth er, in detail, as to the use of the ballo t box,
the Lodge, or some
of
same shoul d be deliv ered to him by the Mast er
one desig nated by the Mast er; and
remin ded of their
WHE REA S, our Breth ren canno t be too often
responsibility in the use of the ballo t box:
re be given by the
THE REF ORE BE IT RESO LVE D. that a lectu
to the newly
him,
by
Mast er of the Lodge, or some one desig nated
the Gran d
by
red
prepa
re
lectu
raised Broth er by a presc ribed ballo t box
t box
ballo
ing
follow
the
ple,
exam
Lodg e Comm ittee on Ritua l. For
:
iction
jurisd
lectur e is used in anoth er
of the cer~mon~ ~f
"My Broth er, you are now neari ng completion
And while this is
n.
Maso
er
Mast
of
e
degre
e
being raised to the sublim
ent will be of gener al
not a part of the regul ar ritual , I think this statem
intere st to you.
Holy Writ ings and
"You will obser ve that the area betw een the
g the cerem ony of
durin
t
excep
the Mast er's Pede stal is never viola ted
to rule and gover n
m
wisdo
has
man
no
initiation. This is to signi fy that
from that great sourc e
a Maso nic Lodg e unles s the light that eman ates
shine s upon him witho ut blemish.
other furni ture of a
"This , my Broth er, is the Ballo t Box -the only
Holy Bible. Squa re
the
with
Lodg e worth y of a place upon our altar
that the members
ment
instru
this
of
a nd Comp asses , for it is by the use
Incid entall y. it is
ren.
breth
their
be
shall
of this Lodg e deter mine who
candi dates when sittin g
mand atory that you vote upon the petition of all
in your home Lodge.
d perfo rm with
"Ball otting is a solemn duty: one which you shoul by appro achd
plishe
accom
is
It
ness.
perfe ct unde rstan ding and exact
er Mas onMast
a
of
sign
and
rd
duga
the
ing the ballo t box, givin g
accor dance
in
vote
there by reaffirming your vow that you will cast your
takin g a
s-and
ation
with the great princ iples embo died in your oblig
ng into
openi
small
a
gh
throu
white ball or a black cube, and passi ng it
prothis
of
ding
rstan
unde
your
te
a secre t comp artme nt. To demo nstra
candi
the
ct
corre
or
ct
(Dire
.
ballot
le
cedur e you may now cast a samp
date as neces sary.)
shoul d alway s keep
"You know that your ballo t will be secret: you
know n your ballo t
it that way. You are advis ed that to discu ss or make
is a Maso nic offense.
grudg e. perso nal
"The ballo t box is no place to exercise a petty
the judge of the
be
to
are
,
alone
you
pique or priva te quarr el. You, and
that you will
ted
expec
not
is
it
ver,
Howe
qualifications of the petitioner.

255

for that reaso n the
be perso nally acqua inted with each petiti oner, and
who will make a
three
of
ittee
Wors hipfu l Mast er appo ints a comm
oner.
petiti
the
of
ns
icatio
qualif
the
thoro ugh inves tigati on of
instit ution enan
not
is
rnity
"Bea r in mind that the Maso nic Frate
an instit ution
r
rathe
but
man,
good
a
deavo ring to make a medi ocre man
men.
r
bette
men
good
make
desig ned to
out fear, favor , or
"You are admo nishe d to cast your ballo t 'with
it takes but one
that
and
elect,
balls
white
preju dice' reme mber ing that
my Broth er, of your
black cube to rejec t a petiti oner. Be caref ul,
ballo t."
Resp ectfu lly subm itted,
GARE Y B. WEIB EL, M., No. 784
LERO Y W. RICHA RDS, P.M .. No. 784
CHES TER W. KIMB ALL, P.M., No. 784
Purpo ses, and on
Refer red to Comm ittees on Polic y and Gene ral
Ritual.

The Comm ittee on Ritua l:
nted Reso lution
The Comm ittee on Ritua l. to which has been prese
s:
No. 20, repor ts as follow
re" be prepa red
The resolution propo ses that a "Ball ot Box Lectu
Broth er by
raised
y
newl
the
given
be
to
l.
by the Comm ittee on Ritua
conta ins a
tion
resolu
the Mast er or someone desig nated by him. The.
iction
jurisd
sugge sted lectu re as used by anoth er
ion to the cere~
We do not look with favor on this propo sed addit
ns.
reaso
al
sever
for
ee,
Degr
monies of the Third
h to the work and
First, such an addit ion woul d add more lengt
dly, it woul d add addiexemplification of the Third Degr ee; and secon
the Lodg e to commit
of
rs
tional ritual. or lectu re material, for the office
dy existe nt problem
alrea
an
vate
aggra
to memory. This woul d furth er
ial.
mater
r
office
out
ng
in seeki
the ballo t box has
Furth er, instru ction and adminitions in regar d to
of the candi date
ction
alrea dy been prepa red and is availa ble for instru
hes.
Coac
in the Hand book for Cand idate
cts of equal prior ity
Final ly, it woul d seem that there are other subje
and lectur es in the
to consi der, if addit ions are to be made to our ritual
an inves tigato r of a
Th~r? Degr ee. For exam ple, the responsibilityf.ofetc.
Relie
and
ity
petiti oner, the natur e of our Char
mend a no vote.
We move the adop tion of the resolution. but recom
concu rred in the
The Comm ittee on Policy and General Purposes
recommendation.
A majo rity voted again st the resolution.

256

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PERMIT USE OF CANDLE OR TAPER

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 21 proposes to authorize Lodges to use candles
instead of electric lights near the altar, if they desired to do so. The
report of the Ritual Committee has already called attention to the fac ts .
tha t Lodges may so do if they wish and some have, should remove any
doubt if such existed in any local a rea. The proposed resolution does
not propose any change in the existing policy. A yes vote would accomplish nothing and a no vote might later be construed to be a prohibition
against the use of candles. The resolution is moot-a legal form the
Policy Committee should not utter.
I move that Resolution No. 21 be laid on the table.
Grand Lodge tabled the resolution.

(21)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of C:alifornia:_
WHEREA S, in this jet age we of the Masonic Fraternity are
tern ted to make innovations in our ancient craft; and
WHEREA S, many changes have come about through lawful and
ractical solutions to long standing problems, th~ ch~°:ge over from
~andles to kerosene to electricity being a part of this legitimate progress
of mankind: and
WHEREA S, the focal point within our Lodges w here t h e f ime
h
d 1 nguage of the ancients, the calculated and created atmosphere
ofnore a
s1·lence and attention to the original creative fiat of the
reverence,
0
•
. h
b t
GREAT ARCHITE CT OF THE UNIVERS E, 1s
t e area a ou our
sacred altar; and
· ·
f
WHEREA S, heretofore, the time honored means o f 1·11 ummation
o
the GREAT LIGHTS by the lesser has always bee~ tha~ of the ~ees~
die veneration of fire itself being from time 1mmemonal a
waxbclan f the Holiness of God as being a prototype of the sun: and
sym o o
·
·
· a part
WHEREA S, the preservation of certam
mystic
momen t s_ is
and arcel of the investiture of our novices with our way of ~ife;
tHEREFO RE BE IT RESOLVE D. that a proper section of our
Code be drawn and added which will serve_ ~o sugg~st, supp~rt, and
permit each Lodge, at its own discretion, to utilize a sUitable wax candle
or taper as may be desired. Fiat Lux.
'
Respectfully submitted,
GRANVILLE K. FRISBIE, M .. No. 775
THOMAS B. SANTOM, P.M .. No. 775
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.
The Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual, to which has been presented Resolution
No 21 reports as follows:
·Th; resolution as presented advocates the use of wa x candles ~r
tapers for the alta r lights, and would add a section to our Code f?r th~s
purpose. It is our opinion that such an addition to the California
Masonic Code is totally unnecessa ry.
.
F' t there is no restriction on the use of wax candles or tapers m
lieu ~~s ~lectric lights at the present time. Several Lo~ges ~ave used
them for years. Secondly, the requirement of the_ alta_r hg~ts 1.s general
enough to permit the use of either taper or electrical 1l_lummat10~.
The adoption of the resolution would not ac~omphsh anything that
· not already permissible under our present Ritual and law. On the
~ther hand, to insert into our law a provision for use of candles would
then tend toward making the use of candles mandatory.
· ·
We move the adoption of the resolution, but recommend a no vote.

257

BIBLE PRESENT ATION

(22)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
WHEREA S . a copy of the Bible upon which the candidate is
obligated in the Third Degree should be given to the candidate at tha t
time. accompanie d by a presentation speech by the Master or some one
designated on the Master's behalf;
THEREFO RE BE IT RESOLVE D, that the Master. or Brother
designated by the Master, present to the candidate who has been raised,
as a gift from the Lodge, a Holy Bible which ·should be accompa nied by
a prescribed presentation speech to be prepared by the Grand Lodge
Committee on Ritual. For example, the following presentation speech is
used in another jurisdiction:
''My Brother1 s), I have been requested by our Worshipful M aster
to present to you this Holy Bible-a gift from your Lodge. You will
recall that on your first a ppearance in this Lodge you were presented
with a lambskin or white leathern apron. and on the second with the
three precious jewels, the meaning of which was explained to you at
the time. And now, my friend(s), you are to receive the third g ift- the
greatest gift of all- the HOLY WORD of GOD.
"The HOLY BIBLE res ts upon the Altar of every Masonic Lodge,
supporting the S quare and Compasses. This BOOK, beloved by so
many generations, is our VOLUME of SACRED LAW and a
GREAT LIGHT in M asonry. The BIBLE opens when the Lodge
opens; it closes when the Lodge closes. No Lodge ca n transact its own
business , much less initiate candidates into its mysteries unless the
BOOK of HOLY LAW lies open upon its Altar. Thus the BOO K of
the WILL of GOD rules the Lodge in its labors. as the Sun rules the
day, making its work a worship.
"No Mason needs to be told what a great place the BIBLE has in
the Masonry of our day. It is central. sovereign, supreme-th e great and
dazzling light of moral truth, the master light of all our seeing. From

258

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

the Altar it pours forth upon the E ast. the West, and the South. its
white light. of Spiritual Vision, moral law and immortal hope. Upon
the BIBLE every Mason takes solemn vows of loyalty. of chastity and
of charity. pledging himself to the practice of Brotherly Love, and as he
renews these vows with every new made brother, the lanugage and
imagery of the BIBLE becomes more familiar and eloquent'. and its
mu sic becomes a part of his very soul. Nor is it strange that this should
be so. As faith in GOD is the cornerston e of the Craft, so. naturally,
the BOOK which tells us the purest truth about GOD rests upon our
Altar. and as it supports the Square and Compasses. literaUy. upon the
Altar. so does it literally support the superstruc ture of Freemaso nry.
For all of Masonry is founded upon the Divine Laws contained in this
HOLY BOOK.
"But the BIBLE is not only a foundation rock. It is also a quarry
we find the truths which make us men. As in ages gone by,
which
in
rays of sunlight were stored up in vast beds of coal for t~e use of ~an.
so in this BOOK the light of Moral Truth is stored to light the mmds
and warm the hearts of mankind with the knowledg e that GOD has
made us for himself: and that our hearts will be restless, unhappy and
lonely until we learn to rest in HIM whose will is our peace.
" He hath showed thee. 0 Man, what is good, and what doth the
Lord require of thee. but to do justly. to love men:y and to walk humbly
with thy GOD.
"Have no other GODS but me;
Unto no image bow the knee.
Take not the name of GOD in vain;
Do not the Sabbath Day profane.
Honor thy father and mother too;
And see that thou no murder do.
From vile adultery keep thou clean;
And steal not though thy state be mean.
Bear not false witness-s hun that blot;
What is thy neighbor 's-covet not.
" Therefore , all things whatsoeve r ye would that man should do
unto you. do ye even so to them; for this is the Law and the Prophets.
"And now, my brother(s ), this BOOK is yours, and with it the
admonitio n to seek diligently therein for the Light you there shall find,
and to guide your life by that light. as you find it.
"May this BOOK bring you Peace, Knowledg e, Wisdom and Everlasting Comfort."
R espectfull y submitted ,
GAREY B. WEIBEL, M .. N o. 784
LEROY W. RICHARDS , P .M.. No. 784
CHESTER W. KIMBALL , P.M .. No. 784
and on
Referred to Committe es on Policy and General Purposes,
Ritual.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

259

The Committe e on R itual:
The Committe e on Ritual. to which has been presented Resolution
No. 22. reports as follows:
Briefly. the resol ution proposes the adoption of a Bible presentati on
lecture, a nd the presentati on of a Bible to every candidate obligated in
the Third Degree.
We are opposed to the adoption of this resolution for several
reasons.
1. We object to the lengthenin g of the time required fo r the work
and exemplification of the Third Degree.
2. As previously stated, we object to the addition of more material
for the officers of the Lodge to commit to memory.
3. The adoption of this resolution would compel the purchase of
Bibles for every brother obligated in the Third Degree, and would constitute an entry into the area of religious practice in the Lodge, creating
an infringeme nt on the right of free choice of the individual. Our sole
requireme nt for membersh ip is that a man is "a believer in God and a
future existence, " and on this basis we receive applicants embracing
religions other than Christiani ty.
And finally. the resolution would make mandatory the expenditu re
of Lodge funds for this purpose.
We move the adoption of the resolution . but recommen d a no vote.
The Committe e on Policy and General Purposes concurred in the
recommen dation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

MEMOR IAL SERVIC E
(23)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS. there is a definite trend toward family and/or private
funerals: and
WHERE AS, Memorial Services are frequently held at some time
subsequen t to such private funerals to which friends and others are
invited to a ttend: and
WHERE AS, the Funeral Service adopted by the Most Worshipf ul
Grand Lodge. F. & A . M. of California does not provide for a Memorial
Service nor does it permit any deviation therefrom ; and
WHERE AS, the Constitue nt Lodges have been approache d to
perform Memorial Services for Eligible deceased Brothers. a t th e request of their respective families; and
WHERE AS, it has been necessary to inform a family that the
Fraternity of Free a nd Accepted M asons cannot fulfill its request
because of its lack of having that type of service;
NOW, THEREF ORE. BE IT RESOLV ED. that The M ost
Worshipf ul Gra nd Lodge, F. & A. M. of California adopt a s uitable

260

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Memorial Service in addition to its present Funeral Service, which the
Constituent Lodges may be permitted to use. when requested by a
deceased Brother's family for that type of service.
Respectfully submitted.
E. LLOYD HANSON. P.M .. No. 494
LLOYD N. TEMBY, P.M.. No. 494
GEORGE P. SILLIMAN,
E.W. TEMEN . P .M.. No. 494
P.M .. No. 494
J. WARREN MANUEL,
MARION H . BERRIE. M .. N o. 494
P .M., No. 494
RALPH ADAMS, P.M., No. 494
Referred to Committees on Policy and General P urposes, and on
Ritual.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 23 proposes that the Grand Lodge adopt a new
memorial type service to be used by constituten_t Lodg.e~ when requested
by a deceased brother's family. This would be m addition to the present
form of funeral service.
.
.
your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which this
resolution has been referred reports as follows:
.
The Grand Lodge presently permits the use of our funeral s_e~v.1ce
for a deceased brother Mason lost at sea and there is no proh1b1t1on
against using the funeral service in other cases where the body of the
deceased brother is not present.
We do not believe there is sufficient demand to justify having two
types of Masonic funeral services.
T o require that the officers of the constituent Lodges learn and
become proficient in two types of funeral services wou.ld add a ~urde_n
to their already heavy schedule of ritualistic work which we believe is
both unnecessary and inadvisable.
We therefore urge a no vote.
The Comm ittee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual to which has been presented Resolution
No. 23. reports as follows:
.
.
This resolution proposes that a suitable memorial servtce to be
adopted. in addition to our present funeral service, to be used as a
memorial type service.
.
During our 1962 Communication , in repo~ting on ~ resolution for
the adoption of a graveside service. the Committee on Ritual stated that
"we do not believe there is either justification or reasonable demand for
having more than one M asonic Funeral Service, applicable to all cases
.". We still hold this conviction.
Our present funeral service is of such a nature that it may be used
even though the body of the deceased brother is not present.. Further,
by the adoption of Section 605g, permitting the funeral servtce for a
deceased Mason lost at sea and whose body was not recovered; and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

261

Section 605i, which permits our funeral service for one whose body has
been willed to a university and therefore is not present a t the servicethis Grand Lodge has adequately spelled out its attitude as to the flexi~
bllity of our funeral service and its use even though the body of the
deceased brother is not present.
In view of the previous actions of this Grand Lodge broadening the
use of the funeral service, we do not see the necessity for an additional
service or ritual. We, therefore. oppose the adoption of the resolution.
We move the adoption of the resolution, but recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge F. & A. M. of California:
An audit of the finances of Grand Lodge and its agencies for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1965. has been completed as required by our
Code. Copies of the audit have been furnished the members of this
Committee and examined in detail. In our opinion the reports correctly
state the financial position of Grand Lodge.
For the fiscal year under consideration, Grand Lodge had tota l
revenue of $423,074.00 and total expense of $388.989.00, leaving net
revenue of $34,085.00. This favorable result reflects careful use of
Grand Lodge funds by everyone involved and deserves commendation.
However, a substantial portion of this surplus resulted from unavoidable
delays in the completion of programs by several committees. These
funds must be included in appropriations for the new fiscal year so that
the programs may be carried out.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
The Grand Treasurer's Report was referred to and examined by
this Committee. We find all items having to do with fin ance in accord
with the audit and recommend approval.
EXCESS E XPENDITURES OVER BUDGETED APPROPRIATIONS
During the last fiscal year the Grand Master, with the approval of
the Chairman of the Finance Committee, approved appropriations
totaling $3,135.00 in excess of certain budgeted items. These items are
detailed in the audit. There was sound reason for this action in every
case and we recommend approval.
"CALIFORNIA FREEMASON" MAGAZINE
In line with the decision at the last Grand Lodge Communication ,
the transition in the distribution of our official publication, California
Freemason. has been made from a limited list of paid subscribers to a
mailing to all regular members of Lodges in this jurisdiction. supported
by a per capita tax of 25 cents.
Without going into detail. the change-over resulted in a deficit to
Grand Lodge for the last fiscal year of $11,837.00. This deficit was after

262

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

transferrin g $35,945.00 from "Californi a Freemaso n Reserve" to the
general funds of Grand Lodge. You should keep in mind in this connection that the 25 cent per capita you vo ted to support this distributio n
was for the fisca l year ending June 30. 1965. These funds, therefore,
were not in hand until after that date, but are now available to support
the distributio n in the n ew fiscal year.
We are unable to determine accurately at this stage the cost o f a
full year's publicatio n and distributio n of the magazine under the new
system. The revenue from the 25 cents per capita may fall short of
covering costs by some $10.000.00. H owever, we a re recommen ding
that the per capita remain at 25 cents until we have another year's
results before us. at which time a more accurate determina tion can be
made on the necessity of increasing this per capita.
We recommen d approval of the transfer of $35,945.00 from "California Freemaso n Reserve" to general funds. There are some $4,000.00
remaining in this reserve to cover possible future claims for refunds of
past subscriptio ns paid in advance.
LIBRARY COMMISSI ON

The budget for the last fiscal year included a capital appropriat ion
of $5,750.00 to purchase a display case to house the Model of King
Solomon's Temple. By good manageme nt the Library Commissi on was
able to save a portion o f this appropria tion. They requested and received
approval of the expenditu re of this saving on additional book shelves.
Inasmuch as this was also a capital expenditu re ""e do not feel the
action requires Grand Lodge approval and it is reported as a matter of
record only.
The Commissi on is requesting a modest increase in operating budget,
and $2,315.00 capital appropriat ion for a new museum display case to
replace a very old and obsolete case now in use in the museum. We are
including these amounts in the appropria te sections of the budget for
the new fiscal year.
MASONIC HOMES

The members of the Finance Committe e have received and examined
the Report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes. We have consulted
with the Chairman o f the Board from time to time. We are in accord
with their conclusion that no increase should be requested in the present
per capita of $1.50.
H owever, you should be aware of the fact that the Homes had an
operating deficit in the last fiscal year of approxima tely $600.000.00.
This deficit was covered by a transfer from reserves. The net amount of
the reserve account remained the same, however, because of bequests
received during the year which could properly be added to reserve
account.
It is apparent that the cost of operating our Homes is not going to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

263

d line in the foreseeabl e future. It is equally apparent that the Homes
ecnot always expect to cover operating deficits by transfers from reca~es and that it will be necessary for G rand Lodge to take a realistic
~~:w of the situation and devise means by which the income of the
Homes can be increased.
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED. that the sum of $1.50 per capita be levied for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1966. the proceeds to be paid to the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California .
SALARIES

You will be pleased to know that in the la st fiscal year, of the
salaries appropria tion of $93.000.00, only $84.292.00 was expended .
This was due almost entirely to the efficient manageme nt of the Grand
Lodge offices and staff by the Grand Secretary, Most. Worshipf~l
Edward H. S iems. From time to time he has made adjustmen ts m
salaries of the members of the staff. bringing them along with increases
where they are warranted ; but because of greater efficiency in overall
operations in the area of automatio n and work schedule he has been
able to reduce the total numbers of the staff. mainly by not finding it
.
necessary to replace those who left by retirement or otherwise.
Those of us who have had occasion to contact the office on busmess
or personal visitation -and this includes Lodge Secretar!e s and ~any
members of Committe es and Boards-a re impressed with the air of
quiet efficiency and ease with which the enti re operation . i~ con~ucted .
Brother Siems accepted this job five years ago at a cr1t1cal time when
his predecess or was forced to retire due to physical disability. and. we
should add . at ·some financial sacrifice on his part from the salary he
commande d in the business field. At the time he took over this job five
years ago the salary was $20,000.00 and it has remained the same. We
feel that this is entirely inadequat e. Although we are a fraternal. nonprofit organizati on, and make no pretense of competing with the business world. we do feel that an increase in this salary is deserved and
more than justified. We recommen d an increase to $25.000.00 per ye.ar.
effective Novembe r 1, 1965. We have discussed this recommen dation
with the Grand Treasurer , the Grand Master and the Deputy Grand
Master. It has their unanimou s approval. This increase will not req uire
any enlargeme nt over last year in the budget appropria tion for salaries.

BUDGE T- 1965-196 6
ADMINISTR ATIVE AND OFFICE

93,000.00
Salaries ................................................................................$
Grand Lodge OfficesTemple Operation and Maintenan ce Expense ........... . 18.000.00
3.000.00
Audit ....................................................................................
250.00
Grand Treasurer..................................................................

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

264

5,500.00
Postage and Express........................................................... .
4.500.00
Telephone and Telegraph ..................................................
6,900.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes........................
500.00
.
..........
Investment Counsel.. .................................................
Retirement Pension PlanGrand Lodge Office Employees ...................................... 4,000.00
Retirement Pension Plan3,500.00
Grand Lodge Agencies Employees ..............................
2,400.00
.
.......................
Benefits
Medical
Employees
Grand Lodge
TOTAL ........................................................................$141 .550.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication ......................................................$ 15.000.00
5.000.00
Conferences ................................................. ...................... .
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense.............................. 10,000.00
850.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler......................................
10.800.00
Grand Master's Travel and Miscellaneous Expense ........
1,800.00
Grand Master's Secretarial Expense..................................
6,000.00
.
.........................................
Lodges
for
Counsel
Investment
Representatives' Mileage .................................................... 37,000.00
Printing ............................................................................... . 27,000.00
Ritualistic Expense :
600.00
Grand Lecturer ..............................................................
2.500.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery................................
Ritual Committee and ln-spectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ............................ 15.000.00
900.00
Retirement Pay ....................................................................
4.500.00
.
Veteran Buttons .................................................................
5,000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous................................................
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges........................
Fidelity Bond..................................................................
Miscellaneous ................................................................
Grand Lodge Regalia..........................................................

10,000.00
None
1,200.00
900.00

TOTAL ........................................................................$154.050.00

265

Endowment Board .............................................................. 17.000.00
2,000.00
Committee on Masonic Education ......................................
3,000.00
.
.............................................
Lodge Financing Committee
200.00
History C ommittee ..............................................................
1,100.00
Columbia T emple Committee ..............................................
1,200.00
Memorial Temple-Campaign Expense............................
2,500.00
Committee on Public Schools............................................. .
None
Boards of Relief- Reimbursement for Sojourners ............
750.00
Committee on Commercialism ............................................
1,000.00
Sojourners Committee ........................................................
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley ....................................................................... . 21,130.00
Los Angeles ................................................................. . 23,500.00
150.00
Code Commission ............................................................... .
None
Grand Lodge Legal Expense ..............................................
500.00
Investment Committee ........................................................
4,100.00
Relief Fund-Grand Master..............................................
4.595.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries....................................
1.500.00
.
.................................
Information
Masonic
on
Committee
1.250.00
Library Commission ............................................................
1,000.00
Committee on Old Masonic Hall-Los Angeles............ ..
Special Committee on Grand Master Heald's
200.00
Decision No. 7 ............................................................... .
TOTAL ........................................................................ $108,984.00
RECAPITU LATION
Administrativ~ and Office ................................................. ...$141,550.00

General Expense.................................................................. 154 .050.00
Appropriations .................................................................... I 08 ,984.00
GRAND TOT AL ................................................ ........ $404,584.00
ESTIMATED I NCOME

Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc ........................... $344,000.00
Income from Investmen ts, Interest...................................... 41 ,000.00
Payment from Masonic HomesEndowment Board Expense.......................................... 17,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes-Secretarial and O ther Services...................................... 24,000.00

APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee............................................................ $ 4,000.00
1,800.00
Board of Control. .................................................................
750.00
Charters Committee ............................................................
1,500.00
Constitution Observance Committee................................. .
750.00
DeMolay Committee ............................................................
Employment Bureaus ......................................................... . 13,509.00

TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME ............................ $426,000.00
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS ............................................ 404.584.00
ESTIMATED SURPLUS (DEFICIT) .................... $ 21.416.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

PROCEEDING S OF THB

266

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEME NTS

.. . ....•...•... $

Grand Lodge Miscellaneo us ................................ .
Display Cabinets ........ --·················· ············ ·······················:::
Columbia Temple······ ·······················································
TOT A L

-············································

2.500.00
2,315.00
2,645.00

...........................$ 7,460.00

1,100.00
11 ,000.00
600.00

TOTAL ........................................................................ $ 33.825.00
APPROPRIAT IONS

t .00
.........$
PER CAPITA
1.50
·
····················
····················
Memorial Temple ····················
.50
·····:::::::
Masonic Homes ····························································
.85
Grand Lodge Constitution al...................................... --··:::::.......
.25
·············
........... -··::···············
G and Lodge Additional..
····---················
····················
Freemason
"California
P~blication
4.10
TOTAL ............................................................ ............$

BUDGET
ONE QUARTE R-JULY 1, 1966 THROUG H
SEPTEMB ER 30, 1966
..... ... ........... .. ..........•... $ 25 ,000.00
Salaries ·············································
4,500.00
E
Grand Lodge Offices100.00
Temple Operation and Maintenanc e xpense......... ...
1,500.00
Grand Treasurer -·······························································
t .500.00
:-.::
.
::-.-.:-·
.
:·
.
··:-.::::·
..................
....................
Express
and
Postage
500.00
........
Telephone and Telegraph.. .................... ........
600.00
.........
Ta~es.......
ent
Unemploym
and
Social Security
3,000.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Bene ts.... ....................
Audit ····················································································- - - 36.700.00
.....................................-...................$
TOTAL ................................

ADMINISTRA TIVE A.ND 0PPICE

GENERAL EXPENSE

Supplies and Miscellaneous................................................
Insurance :
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges........................
Miscellaneous .................... ............................................

$ 8,000.00

Annual Communica tion ······················································
Conferences ········································································
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ..............................
···-······-········-··

1.000.00
3,000.00
5.000.00

Ritualistic Expense :
Grand Lecturer ····························;······························· ··
Ritual Committee and Inspectors
Conference and Travel Expense ....... .................... .
Ins e<:tors' Aprons and Stationery............. .......... ...... .
p ay .................... ............····································
p
Retirement
-··················· ··························-···················
Buttons
Veteran

150.00

Printing ·-·········--·-······-······---···-··-···-··--······-·····

1.500.00
750.00
225.00
1,500.00

Relief Fund-Gran d Master ..............................................$
Activities Committee ........................................................... .
Board of Control. .................................................................
Charters Committee .................... ........................................
Constitution Observance Committee ..................................
DeMolay Committee ......................................................... .. .
Endowment Board ........................................ ..................... .
Committee on Masonic Education ..................................... .
Lodge Financing Committee ............................................. .
Memorial Temple-Ca mpaign Expense ........................... .
Committee on Public Schools ........................................ ......
Committee on Commercialism ........................................... .
Code Commission ............................................................... .
Investment Committee ........................................................
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ....................................
Sojourners Committee ........................................... .............. .
Committee on Masonic Information ................................. .
Library Commission ............................................................
Columbia Temple Committee ............................................. .
History Com~ittee .................... ......................................... .
Committee on Old Masonic Hall-Los Angeles..............

1,200.00
1.000.00
500.00
200.00
400.00
200.00
2,000.00
300.00
750.00
300.00
600.00
200.00
50.00
150.00
1,000.00
300.00
250.00
300.00
350.00
50.00
250.00

TOT AL ............................................................ ............ $ 10,3 50.00
RECAPITULATION

Administrat ive and Office .................................................... $ 36.700.00
General Expense.................................................................. 33,825 .00
Appropriati ons .................... ................................................ 10,350.00
GRAND TOTAL .•..•...... .....•..•.....•. .....••. . ...•..•.. ....•..•... $ 80,875.00

You will be pleased that the above estimates of income and expense
for the current fiscal year show a small surplus. Such net revenue serves
to increase the General Funds of Grand Lodge, or. in other words. our
Reserves. We should endea vor to make this standard procedure, first,
because it is sound fiscal policy, and secondly, for the less obvious
reason that each year we reduce our reserves by capital appropriations
for new equipment and replacement of worn out and obsolete items.

268

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

A comparison of the new budget with that of the preceding year
shows that, for this year at least, we are making some progress in
holding the line on expenses. There were fifty-seven items in last year's
budget. For the new year the amounts for thirty remain the same,
eleven are increased for a total of $9,600.00, fourteen are reduced for a
total of $20,630.00 and three items are eliminated entirely in the amount
of $3,945.00. The result is a net reduction of $14,975.00.
In the light of ever-increasing cost of goods and services, this favorable trend is the product of the efforts of all your brethren to whom
you intrust the responsibility of spending your money in the broad
advancement of the welfare and growth of Masonry in this jurisdiction.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That for the purposes of paying the expenses of
Grand Lodge. a per capita aggregating $4.10 be levied for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1966, divided as follows:
Constitutional per capita for
California Masonic Memorial Temple ...... ---·-····----·--·-······$1.00
Masonic Homes ............................................. -------····-----·---------· 1.50
Constitutional per capita for Grand Lodge............................ .50
Additional per capita for Grand Lodge.................................. .85
"California Freemason" per capita.......................................... .25
Total Per Capita................................................................$4.10
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
ALFRED H. NICOLL
VICTOR HOWARD

PAUL F. BALCK
JAMES E. HAMMOND
G. DOUGLAS THOMPSON

Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was
separately adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.
At 4:30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 a.m. Friday.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

269

IN GRAND LODGE
15, 1965
At 10:00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Burton 0. Young, Past
Master of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. The invocation was delivered by
Worshipful Charles Becker, former Grand Orator and former Grand
Marshal. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday, October 14, were read and approved.
MORNING SESSION-FRIDAY, OCTOBER

\

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections of the Constitution applying thereto.
The R. W. Myron E. Smith. University Lodge No. 394, was
elected Grand Master.
The R. W. Laurence E. Dayton, Live Oak Lodge No. 61, was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. John F. Porter, Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Eugene S. Hopp, King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260.
was elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V. W. Paul A. Pflueger, Amity-Seal Rock Lodge No. 370, was
re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth
Lodge No. 560, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Harold N. Richards, Washington Lodge No. 20, was
elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Dr. Randall C. Phillips, Cahuenga Lodge No. 513.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell, North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Frank P. Lemen, Three Pillars Lodge No. 613; William F.
Poynter, Veritas-Jonathan Lodge No. 545; Wallace H. Fiske, East
Belt Lodge No. 391; Robert A. Crigler, John Marshall Lodge No. 636;
W. Ben Sorrells, Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
Grand Orator, Warren J. Blomseth, Diamond Lodge No. 603.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Jack F. Bowley, Amity-Seal Rock
Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Verne W. Hendrix, Mount Oiablo
Lodge No. 448.
Grand Marshal, Frederick E. Cutler, University Lodge No. 394.
Grand Standard Bearer, Phil Campbell, Citro! Lodge No. 656.

271

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Sword Bearer, Arthur Dvorin, Composite Lodge No. 639.
Grand Bible Bearer, Frank G. Hollenberg, Olivet Lodge No. 205.
Senior Grand Deacon, William A. Revitt, Union Lodge No. 58.
Junior Grand Deacon, Richard W. Rylander, Warren G. Harding
Lodge No. 579.
Senior Grand Steward, Herbert H. Cooper, Larchmont Lodge
No. 614.
Junior Grand Steward, George N. Kahapea, Sr., Honolulu Lodge
No. 409.
Grand Pursuivant, F. William Hellman, Pacific Grove Lodge
No. 331.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, Burton 0. Young, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
Announcement was made of the following appointments by the
Grand Master-elect:
As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, the re-appointment of Past Grand Master Phil N. Myers and the appointment of
Donald G. Campbell.
As Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the reappointment of Ralph H. Head and Lyle E. Patton.

AFTERNOON SESSION-Friday, October 15, 1965

270

At 11 :55 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 p.m.

At 2:00 p.m. Grand Lodge assembled.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master, acted as
of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed, were
installed by the retiring Grand Master in .accordance with the R itual.
~.faster

The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecessor with
a Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Charles Albert Adams lapel pin was transferred from the
retiring to the incumbent Grand Master, and the other chair officers
exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The Everett Houser lapel pin was presented to the newly installed
Grand Orator and the incumbent Grand Mas ter presented the Robert
B. Watts lapel pin to the newly installed Grand Chaplain on behalf of
the retiring Grand Chaplain.
Most Worshipful Phil N. Myers invested the retiring Grand Master
with the apron of his new designation and Most Worshipful Edward
H. Siems, Grand Secretary, presented him with a Past Grand Master
Certificate.
A gift for Mrs. Meriam was then tendered by the Grand Secretary
on behalf of the members of Grand Lodge. The retiring Grand M a ster
expressed his thanks for the gift and the opportunity to have served
the Fraternity as ,its Grand Master.
Following the ceremonies Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith introduced to Grand Lodge the Master of his own Lodge, Worshipful
Clifford Lowry, who in turn introduced fifteen Past Masters of University Lodge No. 394. These Brethren, as a gesture of respect and
brotherly love, had tra veled from Southern California to be present at
this installation. Brother Lowry pointed out that it had been fifty years
to the day since University Lodge had received its charter. The newly
installed Grand Master then expressed his appreciation to his many
friend s for their good wishes.
At 2:45 p .m., all business being completed, Grand Lodge was
closed in due form.

Grand Master
Grand Secretary

JOHN RANDLE MOOR E
Grand Ma ster- 1946
Born
Septemb er 13, 1893
Johnson ville. Tenness ee

Oi,·d
M<1rch 28, 1965
Corona de! Mar. Californi;1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA.

Grand Lodge was opened in the Unity Masonic Temple. Glendale.
at 12: 00 noon and funeral services ""·ere conducted for Pas t Grand
Mas ter John Randle Moo re in the Church of the Recessional. Forest
Lawn. Glendale. at I :30 p.m. Wednesday , M arc h 31, 1965. The statio ns
"vere occupied as follows:

EULOGY

274

Grand Master ...... ............................ ...... TH EODORE MERIAM
Deputy Grand M astcr ........................ .... MYRON E. SMITH
Senior Grand Warden ...... .......... ................ JOHN F. PORTER
/unior Grand Warden ... ........ ................ W. BEN SoRREL LS
Grand Treasu rcr. .......................... ..... FRANK W. RADDATZ
Grand Secretary ......... ............ .. .............. EDWARD H. SIEM S
Grand Lccturcr ....... ... ...................... DONALD G. CAMPBELL
Grand Chaplain .... ....... .... .. .............. ...... RAY L. PETERSON
Assistant Grand Lecturer.. ........... ..... ROBERT A. CRIGLER
Assistant Grand Lccturcr .... ......... ....... STEPHEN J. COLLI NS
A ssistant Grand Lecturer .. . ......... ........ ... FRED F. ELLIOTT
Assistant Grand Lecturer.... ......... ARNOLD G. RoBERTSON
A ssistant Grand Lecturer ........... ...... ERWIN H. GEBHARDT
A ssistant Grand Lecturer .... ... ... .... LLOYD D . HA NS ELMA N
Grand Orator.................... _ ................... JAMES E. WELLET
Assistant Grani Treasurer. . ........ FREDERIC EDw1:--; CLARK
Assistant Grand Secretary ..... .................. ALFRED J. NAVIN
Gra nd Marshal .......... .... ......... ............. .............. .. RAY SMITH
G ra11d Standard Dcarcr ...................... ...... ROBERT A. SIMON
Grand Sword D:arcr. ...................... THOMAS J. M c KIMSON
Gra nd Bible lJcarer ...................................... JOHN A. OwEN
Senior Grand Deacon .......... ....... .... .. ...... .IRVIN SIIULKIN
/wiior Grand Deacon ....... .. ... .. .......... GEORGE W. PERKIN S
Senior Grand St:?ward.. ... .. . ... ..... ........ LOUIS H . MAHLER
Junior Grnnd Steward .. ... ... .......... .. GEORGE E. HARRISON
Gran'.! Pursuivant.. .... . .. ... ................... BURTON MEYER , JR .
Grand Organist .............. ................ WILLI AM A. FISHUJ\ C:K
G rand Tiler ......... ................................ FRANK L. RI CHARDS
The eulogy a s given by Guy B. Mize is appended to this account.

275

JOHN RANDLE MOORE

By Guy B. Mize
Once again the Almighty Fiat has gone forth and with it there was
removed from our midst on March 28, 1965, our beloved brother, Past
Grand Master John Randle Moore. A continuing series of heart attacks
proved more than his rugged spirit could bear and he slipped away in
his sleep to eternal rest. Faithful to the end to his love of Masonry.
John attended the Annual Meeting of the Los Angeles Board of Relief
only seven days prior to his passing , so that he could enjoy the fellowship of the 1800 Masons present at the breakfast. W a rm, indeed, were
the many greetings given him by so many of his brethren, happy to have
him in their midst. And, although physically tired from the meeting,
he returned to his home in Corona Del Mar, uplifted by the Masonic
fellowship which he had sought and obtained.
It was my great privilege to know John as one of my closest, personal
friends. He was my Inspector in the old 86th Masonic District during
most of the years I served as an officer of my Lodge. I was honored to
be selected to follow him as Inspector when John was chosen in October,
1944, to be Junior Grand Warden of this Grand Lodge. In the succeeding
years, he was always available to me as I assumed other Masonic duties.
and he offered me wise counsel - but only when asked to do so.
During my term as Grand Master, John Moore was a pillar of
strength with his profound knowledge of Masonic law and customs.
There were occasions when we did not agree while considering a problem. but as long as our disagreements did not involve a compromise of
principle. there could be no breach of our friendship.
It was natural that I would turn to John Moore to serve me personally in legal matters and I always felt secure in his advice. I shall be ever
grateful that our paths in life crossed and that I could know him as a
true friend and brother.
On October 13. 1947, John Randle Moore stood before his brethren
assembled for the 98th Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California to
give an account of his stewardship as Grand Master for the year then
ending.
True, indeed, were the attributes penned by the biographer who
wrote for the Proceedings of that year:
"John Moore has preserved and perpetuated the finest tra ditions of
the office of Grand Master during his incumbency in that exalted station.
"On matters of policy he has s teadfastly adhered to the Ancient
Landmarks and has found a way to be progressive and modern within
their limits.
"On matters of law he stated at the outset of his term that he would

277

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

not knowingly violate nor permit to be violated the law of Grand Lodge
.
and he has kept his pledge.
"He has brought to problems of administration a careful. studious
mind and has been painstaking in his search for the essentials necessary
to a proper solution.
" Kindly, considerate, social. and so friendly that all brethren :vere
at ease in his presence. John will be affectionately remembered as My
Grand Master' by all who served with him."
In his message to Grand Lodge, John Moore said:
"My services have now come to judgment at your hands. I have
not the temerity or the vanity to argue that my acts this year have
contributed to the progress of Masonry, but I shall be compensated
and flattered if. in your wisdom, you find that they have not interrupted
or impeded it, and that it will continue to flow, unde.r God, slowly,
.
serenely and harmoniously into time."
In these two statements, we gain insight into the character of this
great Mason and his unwavering fidelity to the trust imposed in hi~.
Yes, John Moore has placed himself indelibly in the records of California Freemasonry - and his passing brings sorrow to many across
this country and in every country where M asonry is known. His friends
elsewhere were legion and in his extensive travels he always found
time to pursue Masonic interests so that he could bring to this Grand
Lodge important and timely reports on the condition of Freemasonry
in other climes.
John was born September 13, 1893 in Johnsonville, Tennessee, the
son of James Randle and Dora (McCauley) Moore, both parents of
Irish descent. His forebears were early settlers of North Carolina a nd
participants in the Revolutionary War against the Britis h. He attended
grammar school in Tennessee and high school in Campbell, Missouri.
Entirely on his own in the securing of an education, ambitious for an
education, and willing to w ork and strive for it, he worked on a farm,
cut timber. operated a lathe in the manufacture of axe handles, worked
as a carpenter, carried newspaper and laundry routes, clerked in a mercantile store and, in 1917 upon graduating from high school, became
principal and teacher in a two-room school at Gibson, Missouri, where
he received a salary of $60 per month. By this time, the ruggedness and
simplicity of his character which was to remain with him all his life was
clearly established.
John's record was so outstanding that upon his application for
officer's training in World War I, the Superintendent of the Campbell
High School was constrained to write a letter of endorsement to the
commanding general where John's application was being processed.
Quoting briefly from the letter, how interesting and prophetic were
these statements:
"It is a rare pleasure, indeed, to a school teacher to be called upon
to speak in behalf of a young man such as John R. Moore. He has a

commanding appearance and personality. Whatever he has been or
is he will be leading. I voice the sentiments of this entire city when I
say that John Moore is one of the strongest men in our town physically, mentally, and morally. He is one of America's choice products and will serve his country with honor."
Such was the opinion of a man who wrote those words on May 5,
1917. Such is our opinion today.
John Moore went on to serve his country in W orld War I as a
Second. Lieutenant, Company I, I 9th Division, U nited States Army.
Immediately following his military service, he enrolled in the University of Missouri and then graduated from the University of C olorado.
He was admitted to the practice of law in Colorado in 1922 and in
California in 1923. Professionally, he prac ticed law in Los Angeles
for more tha n 40 years including several years as trust officer of a Los
Angeles bank and 15 years as State Inheritance Tax Appraiser and
Referee. In I 956 he was a participant in the White House Conference
on Education held in Washington, D . C.
!ohn was married to Tekla Bender on October 12, 1922, they
having met as students at the University of Colorado. He is survived
by Mrs. Moore, a son. John Bender, a daughter, Edith Bear, five
grandchildren in whom he took great delight, and four sisters. Unquest_ionably, the greatest joy in John's life was his family and
happiest he was when surrounded by them. This was so evident to all
who had the privilege of knowing John intimately. T hen, too, he had
the pleasure of receiving his son Bender into his law practice in I 952
and they practiced law together under the firm name of M oore and
Moore. On the 9ccasion of John's first official visit as Grand Master,
in . ~is o~n Lodge, Meridian N o. 667, he had the rare priviledge of
raising his son, Bender, to the sublime degree of Master Mason.
Other than his law practice. John's chie f business interest was with
Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale. serving as a member of the
Council of Regents, as a member of the board of directors of Forest Lawn
Memorial Park Association and as P resident of the Board of Trustees of
Forest Lawn M emorial Cemetery Association.
.Other organizations claimed John's interests and he belonged to the
society. Sons of the R evolution; American Legion; Los Angeles Bar
Association; State Bar of California; Kappa Sigma; Phi Delta Phi;
and the Los Angeles Club of Rotary International.
Other than his family, Joh n's greatest love was Masonry and it was
in its vineyards tha t he served for so many years with s uch great
distinction.
. ~aised in Four fvl ile Lodge No. 212 at Campbell, Missouri. John
d1m1tted to and bec:ime a charter member of Meridian Lodge No. 667,
Glendale, in 1928. H e served as Master of the latter Lodge in 1933
and then ensued a continuous service to Grand Lodge culminating in
his election to the office of Grand M aster on October 18, 1946. But

276

278

PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

his term
not end upo n com plet ion of
his serv ice to Gra nd Lod ge did
ned him
ear
nts as a law yer imm edia tely
as Gra nd Ma ster for his tale
serv ed
re
mo
e
Jur ispr ude nce whe re he onc
yea rs.
a plac e on the Com mit tee on
ten
t
pas
the
ing
s its Cha irm an dur
wit h gre at dist inct ion and wa
the
of
one
as
e
plac
ed
erv
d a wel l des
Sur ely . Joh n Mo ore has ach ieve
ry.
son
ema
ifor nia Fre
legal gia nts in the ann als of Cal
His dee p
also clai med Joh n's inte rest .
ons
zati
ani
org
ic
son
Oth er Ma
ship in
ber
mem
k
see
ani ty cau sed him to
belief in the teac hin gs of Chr isti
ed as
serv
n
Joh
ies.
of the Gle nda le Bod
and
r
Yor k Rit e Mason ry. A mem ber
pla
Tem
s
ght
Kni
53,
.
man der y No
Com man der of Gle nda le Com
r of
nde
ma
cho sen to serv e as Gra nd Com
t
ien
late r he was hon ore d by bei ng
Anc
the
In
s Tem pla r of Cal ifor nia.
the Gra nd Com man der y. Kni ght
eles
Ang
Los
the
Joh n was a mem ber of
a 33°
and Acc ept ed Sco ttis h Rite,
obe r, 1955, by bei ng cor one ted
Oct
in
d
Bod ies and was hon ore
ign
ere
Sov
ous
stri
Illu
t
Pas
a mem ber and
.
tine
Sco ttis h Rite Ma son . He was
stan
Los Ang eles , Red Cro ss of Con
to
of St. Gab riel Con clav e No . 14,
ed
ong
bel
yea rs in the Shr ine and
con~
He held mem ber ship for ma ny
, and the Ord er of DeM ola y
eles
Ang
tion
Al Ma laik ah Tem ple , Los
gni
reco
in
him
n
upo
nor -Ho norary
ferr ed the deg ree . Legion of Ho
of his service to Ma son ry.
to him.
Ma son ic hon ors which cam e
But wit h all the se and oth er
mo st
ted
igh
del
e Lod ge Ma son and he
John Mo ore was at hea rt a Blu
rs.
the
s on the level as bro
in mee ting wit h his fell ow Ma son
we see
life of this dea r frie nd of our s.
the
r
side
An d now as we con
n as
the
;
ed his cou ntry in time of war
a
as
him as one wh o wil ling ly serv
.
end
def
then as one wil ling to
n
the
a dev ote d husban d and fath er;
and
d:
eve
cipl es in whi ch he beli
citi zen a nd a t all times, the prin
ity of
teac hin gs of the gre at Fra tern
the
d
as a Ma son who exemplifie
in
whi ch he was a par t.
beli eve d in a sup rem e bei ng and
d
As do all Ma son s, Joh n Mo ore
frai
una
se beli efs whi ch wou ld mak e him
se
imm orta lity , and he spo ke tho
ver
the
d
min
in
come. Per hap s he hel d
whe n the final sum mo ns wou ld
Gra nd
and whi ch was quo ted by the
ke
Dy
pen ned by Hen ry Va n
:
ster
Ma
nd
Gra
as
ore in his yea r
Cha pla in who serv ed Joh n Mo
t can eve r bin d the soul.
tha
on
"Se lf is the onl y pris
ever bid the gat es unr oll.
An d lov e the onl y ang el tha t can
aris e and follow fast,
So whe n he com es to call thee.
ss. but it lead s to ligh t at last ."
kne
His way ma y lead thro ugh dar
is
hea rts of tho se we leav e beh ind
It has bee n said , "To live in the
not to die. "
eve r
, he yet lives in our hea rts and
Of John Ran dle Mo ore , we say
ress ed by the poe t:
sha ll. An d , as so bea utif ulll y exp
our frie nds wh o hav e pas sed
us.
"Th ey nev er qui te leav e
to the sun ligh t abo ve;
Thr oug h the sha dow s of dea th
hol din g them fast.
A tho usa nd swe et mem orie s are
h the ir pre sen ce and lov e."
To the pla ces the y bles sed wit

SP EC IA L AP PE ND IX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

279

SPECIAL APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page

Grand Lodge Audit ................................................................................ 280
Audit of Annual Returns, 1965............................................................ 291
Masonic Homes Audit.......................................................................... 293
Memorial Temple Audit. ....................................................................... 333
Statistical :
Residents of Union City.................................................................. 338
Children at Covina Home................................................................ 3"17
Contributions to Special Reserves .................................................. 3"19

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

280

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
We attach the following:
Exhibit A

Statement of assets,
fund balance

Exhibit B

Statement of revenue received and expense s
disbursed

LYBRAND. Ross BROS.&, MONTGOME RY
CERTl,.IP:O P U B LI C ACCOUNTANTS
0NC

8USH

5TRECT

SA.N FRAN C ISCO 4

Schedu le l

'fUt<OM l· SUJ

- Investment s

Schedule 2 Schedule 3 Schedule 4

-

Schedule 5 One page
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California ,
1111 California Street,
San Francisco, California 94108.
we have examined the s tatement of assets, liabilitie s,
and fund balance of THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA as of June 30 , 1965,
and the related statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed for the year then ended.

Our examinatio n was made in

accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingl y included such tests of the accounting reco rds and such
other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstan ces.

We prev iously examined and reported upon the

financial statement s for the year ended June 30, 1964.
I n our opinion, the accompanyi ng statements present
fairly the assets, liabilitie s, and fund balance of The Most
Worship ful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of California at June 30, 1965 and 1964, arising pr imarily from
cash transactions, and the revenue received and expense• disbursed
by it for the years then ended, on a con•istent basis.

August 4 , 1965

liabilitie s, and

Contributi ons received from I~dges
Admin istrative and off ice expense
General expense
Appropriat ions
Notes to financi al statements

281

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

282

EXHIBIT A

GRAND LODGE, f' . & A. M. OF CALIFOIUHA
STATEMENT OF ASSETS , LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1965 and 1964

A S S E T S1
Cash
Investment• (at cost), Schedule 11
Bonds (market value $566,129 and $565,745)
Preferred stock (market value $18,125 and
$25,075)
Common stock (market value $305,487 and
$328,917)
Total (market value $889,741
and $919,737)

.!.lli.

$ 65,261

$ 94,999

573,887

573,386

21,802

27,022

232 , 908

248 ,99 1

828 ,597

84 9 ,3 99

52,988

51,938

39,062
425
506

57
425
360

92, 981

52,780

S21l211l~2

$22Z.1i.2a

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE:
Liabilities:
Contributions by initiates for the
George Washington Masonic National
Memori al Associat ion
Advance payments by Lodges on annual returns
Contributions due pens i on fund
Accrued payroll taxes a nd expense
Reserve for "California Freemason" (Note 4)
Total liabilities
Fund balance:
Balance, beginning of year
Less:
Transfer to Reserve for "California
Freemason" (Note 4)
Legal fees in settlement of Lagersen
estate

$

2 , 772
4 000

4 ,7 17
3,810
8,992
3,514
4 0, 109

lJ I 995

61,142

936,036

868,525

4 ,657
2,566

$

4,941
6 114 3
863,584

4 0, 747
2,204

71,743
709

972, 844

936,036

Total liabilities and fund balance
s21i2.im
The accompanyi ng notes are an integral
part of th• financial statements,

$222 iz§

Balance, end of year

Revenue:
Contributi ons received from Lodges,
Schedule 2
Less, t hose received f o r special purposes:
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
George Washington Masonic National
Memori al

EXHIBIT B

1 965

1964

$1,068,336

$1,053,397

421 , 051
297,433

417,979
297,364

6 1 189
724, 673
343, 663
395

6 1 195
121, 538
331, 859
455

Fees for charters a nd dispensations
Revenue from insurance premiums advanced
for Lodges
Revenue fr om investments:
Dividends on stocks
I nterest o n bonds
Interest on bank a ccou nts

1, 922
12 , 456
23,182
5, 206
40,844

11 , 1 80

24,000
14, 172
38, 172

24 , 000
15, 119
39, 119

Sale o f supplies held for resale
Leas , purchase of suppliea for resale

35,562
18,257
17 I 3 05

33, 084
3 7 I 216
(4, 132)

Subscri ptions for "Ca lifornia Freemason "
Transfer from reserve for "California
Freemason" (Note 4 )

11, 810

45,662

Reimbursement from Masoni c Homes of
California for:
Secretarial and other services
Endowment Board expense

4 677
31,667

59 ,5 92
111,837)

57' 996
(12 ,3 34)

309

Total revenue
Expense:
Administrative a nd office expense ,
Schedule 3
General expense, Schedule 4
Appropriations, Sc hedu le 5
Net revenue, before gai n o n
sec urities sales

428,85 1

388,556

12 7, 419
1 52,866
108 , 704
388,989

13 5 , 231
148, 225
9 7,118
380 ,574

Net gain on sales oL securities
Net revenue , Exhibi t A

15 ,810

35, 945
4 7' 755

Lesa, publishing expenditures
(Co r res_pondence committee)
Sundry revenue

929,893
Add:
Net revenue for year, Exhibit B
Legaci es received

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
F or the yea rs ended June 30, 1965 and 1 9 64

.!ill

Other a ssets:
Furniture and fixtures (at cost, Note 2)
Insurance premiums advanced for Lodges
(Note 3)
Refundable deposit
Sundry receivables

Total aasets

283

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$

The acc ompanying notes are an integral
part of the fina nc ia l statements.

39 , 862

7 , 982

885

63,761

~ Q ,H Z

$

1i . Zi~

285

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A
PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

284

GRAND LODGE, P. & A. M. OF CA.LIPORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F.

SCHEDULE l
Page l

&

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

COMMON STOCK
BONDS

£2ll
face Value

$ 20,000
100,000
50,000
20,000
10,000
5,000
4,600
70,000
40,000
25,000
230,000
500

Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Equipment
Trust, 4-1/8%, 1960
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company Equipment
Trust, 4-1/ 4", 1960
Chicago. Bur l i ngton & Quincy Railroad
Equipment Trust, J-7/8%, 1971
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Equipment
Trust, 4", 1971
Norfolk & western Railway Equipment Truat,
3-7/8%. 1972
No rfolk & Western Railway Equipment Trust,
4"· 1970
Virginian Railway, Income Debenture,
6". 2008
federal Home Loan Bank, Consolidat ed Notes,
4-1/8%, 1966
United Sta t es Treasury Bonds, 2-1/ 2", 1972
United States Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2", 1990
united States Treasury Bonds, 4", 1969
wells Farg o Bank Convertibl e Capital Notes.
3-1/ 4", 1 989
Total bonds

$ 19,933
100,209
49,408
20,000
9,872
5,000
5,129
70,085
37,991
25,688
230, 072
500
$~7~ 1 !l!F

PREFERRED STOCK

100
100

Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/8%
Owens-Illi noi s Glass, 4%
Total preferred stock

$ 10,352
1L450
$ 2L !j02

102
100
112
100
100
300
660
100
430
544
110
500
200
210
733
100
102
200
219
300
100
100
105
371
200
100
400
100
117
204
300
175
300

Allied Chemical corporatio n
Amer ican Cyanamid Company
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Bendix Corporatio n
C.IT Financial corporatio n
Champ ion Papers, Inc.
Columbia Gas System, Inc .
Commercial Credit Company
Cons o lidated Edison Company of Ne..,. York, Inc.
Crocker-Ci ti zens National Bank
Crown Zellerbach Co rporation
Duqu esne Light Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Fireman's Fund Insurance Company
General Public Utilities Corporatio n
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company
Gulf Oil Corporatio n
Ingersoll-R and Company
Interstate Power Company
Irving Trust Company of New York
Kai s er Aluminum and Chemical Corporatio n
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company
Marathon Oil Ccmpany
Northern States Power Company o f Minnesota
Ohi o Edison Company
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
Pennsy lvania Power & Light company
Soco ny Mobil Oil Cocnpany, Inc.
Stpndard Oil Company of California
Tennessee Gas Transmission Company
Union Electric Company
Wells Far90 Bank
Western Bancorpora tion
Total common stoc k

$

3,642
5,059
5,963
6, 720
4,077
8, 725
13,562
3,989
13,151
6,805
5,519
9,948
5,440
5,144
13,998
4,755
3,989
8,497
5 , 737
12,833
3, 537
9,000
4,446
4,115
4,417
4,742
14,288
4,857
S,161
4 , 673
8,613
7, 747
10,961
$232.908

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

For the year ended June JO, 1965

Contributions Received from Lodges for
Grand
George
Lodge
Masoni c
California Washington
Support
Home a
Masonic
Masonic
and
of
Memorial
National
• Activitiea California
Temple
Memorial
244,814

3,819

Member• paid for, per
1964 annual returns
Amount
Based upon degrees conferred in year ended
June 30, 1965 - 18,069
at $1 each
Based upon° initiates, and
affiliates for Masonic
Homes, at rate of
Final payment for year
ended June 30 , 196 4,
per 1964 annual
return•
·

l . 35

$325,343

Totals
Grand total

1 00
$
$240.995

l,00
$
$240.995

Salaries

343,412

25, 00

9 00

47,150

15,012

134,525

42, 138

181,675

57 ,150

422,670

298, 145

Budget
--12.§..L

1965

.ill!

Inc reaae
(Decrease!

$ 1,693

$ 93,000

$ 84, 292

$ 82,599

Grand Lodg e offices, Temple
operation, and maintenance
expense

18,000

18 ,000

18,000

Audi t

3,000

3,000

3,000

2 50

Pos t age and express

4 ,000

3,874

3,590

Telephone and te leg raph

4 ,000

4,198

3,997

201

Payroll taxes

4 ,750

5,324

4,270

1,054

Investment counsel
18,069

Installment payments
on 1965 annual
returns
Total, before adjustments
for previous years and
refunds
Adjustments for previoua
years and (refunds),
netted

Actual

Gr and Treasurer

240.995
$

Rate per member

SCHEDULS 3

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1965 a nd 1964

CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM LODGES

Based upon memberahip:
Master Masons at
June 30, 1964
Lesa, members of
research lodges
and members whose
dues were remitted

287

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

286

500

500

500

Reti r ement penaion plan
for employees of:
Grand Lodge
Agencies

4,000
3,500

3,645
3,180

10, 572
7, 716

(6, 927)
(4, 536)

Medica l plan for Grand
Lodge employees

2, 400

l, 311

865

446

Payroll eervice plan

125

95

122

_fill

1 37,525

$.l.2 Z,~.l.2

S.l.~~. nL

$.il.o.W)

1,668

Additional appropriations
autho rized by Grand
Maater
6,350

772

srn1, ;:2z
251

(l,619)

(712)

$343.663

$421,051

$297.433

$L 068 . 336
The accompanying note• are an inte<;Jral
part of the financia l atate111ents.

. 284

The accompanying notea are an i ntegral
part of t he financia l statements.

288

GRAND LODGE, F.

SCHEDULE 4

& A . M. OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OP CALIFORNIA

Additional appropriations
authorized by Grand
Master

Budget
~

~

.!ill.

$ 17, 500
5,000

$ 12,153
3,793

$ 15,891
2,952

850

8,254

10,203

850

850

Increase
(Decrease)
$ (3, 738)
84 1
(1,949)

12,600

12,600

12,000

600

6,000
38,200
29,000

6,000
37 , 405
24,245

6,000
37, 420
26,909

(15)
(2,664)

600

600

600

2,500

3,330

2,366

964

13, soc

14, 108
900
4,507
5,882

12,794
900
3, 812
4,077

l,314

900
4,500
6,000
13,650
3,500
2,700

11,638
3,292
2,689

620

620

168,620

$J,~2 , fil!j!j

1,445

srn2 , Q!ii~
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

8, 581
181
2,689

695
1,805
3,057
3,111

__gq_
$Ufi!,22~

Actual

Bu dg et

Actual

11,000

S CHEDULE 5

APPROPRIATIONS
F or the years ended June 3 0 , 1965 and 1 964

GENERAL EXPENSE
For the years ended J une 30, 1965 and 1964

Annual Communication
Confe rences
Grand Lodge officers'
travel e x pense
Grand Organist and
Grand Tiler
Gra n d Master's travel,
sec retaria l, and
miscellaneous expense
Investment counsel for
Lodges
Rep resentatives ' mileag e
Pr i nting
Ritualistic expense:
Grand Lecturer
Inspectors' aprons
and stationery
Ritual Committee and
inspect ors' conference
and trav el expense
Retirement pay
veteran buttons
Supplies and miscellaneous
Insuranc e:
Wo rkmen'e compensation
for LOdges
Fidel ity and miscellaneou s
Grand LOdge regalia
Reimburse Ira W. Coburn for
excess expense as Grand
Master

289

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1964

I ncrease
(Decrease)

2,810
1,606
183

$ 4 , 322
1,504
189

$ (1, 51.2)
102

1,500

516

711

( 195 )

6,650

1,320

545

775

None
500
13,509
1 7 ,000
500
2 , 0 00
3,000

507
26 9
l3. 509
1 4, 172

1,579
3
12. 312
15, 119

(1, 0 72)
266
1 ,197
(947 )

2,063
2,058

1, 231
2,861

832
(8 0 3 )

2,500
l,500
l, 0 00
3,000

1,75 4
l ,334
535
2,847

1,565
l, 2 04
42 0
2 ,009

189
13 0
115
838

21, 35 0
24,485
150
500
2,500
4, 670

21, 350
24,485

22, 850
2 1,750

(1,500)
2 ,7 35

261
2 ,032
1 , 344

216
2,500
2 ,741

45
(468)
(l , 397)

l, 500
950

784
1 , 186

491
758

293
428

_lli
_ill

_llg_
Activ i ties Committee
Bo ard of Con trol
Charters Committee
Co l umbia Temple Committee
(rent income nett ed)
Cons t itu ti on Observance
Committee
Commis sion on Masonic
Practi c es
De Mola y Commi ttee
Employme nt Bur eaus
Endowment Board
I-ii story Conuni ttee
Committee on Maso nic Education
Lodg e F ina ncing Committee
Memoria l Temple - campaign
expense
Committee on Public S chool s
Commi ttee on Commercia lism
So journers Committee
University Clubhouses:
Ber keley
Los Ang eles
Code Commi ss i on
Investment Committee
Relief Fund - Grand Mas ter
Committee on Masoni c Cemeter ies
Committee on Mason ic
In f ormat ion
L ibr ary Commission
Committee on Old Masonic
Hall , Los Angeles (ren t
i n come netted)

$....i...ill
Grand Lodge office al t erations
and painting
Display c a binets
Additional appropriations
a uthorized by Grand
Ma ster

$

3,300
1,800
7 50

1965
$

1,000

808

_lli

115 , 6 14

97 , 7 33

9 7, 118

6,500
5,75 0

5,521
5,450

12 ,250

10 ,971

·c~ >

5, 521

-2....lli.
1 0 , 971

806
H 2fi! ,§7Q

$;j,Q~ I ZQ!l

Th e a ccompanying n otes are an integra l
part of the f i n a ncial statemente.

$22...lli

$~

PROCEED INGS OP THE

290

GRAND LODGE, F.

&

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

291

ANNU AL AUDI T OF RETU RNS

NOTES TO F ll~NCIAL STATEMENTS
June JO, 1965

LYBRAND , Ross BRos.&. MONTGOMERY
CC"lllllT l l'll:D PUBLIC ACCOUNTA NTS

ONc 8 u a1-1 ST111tEl:T

1.

5..,,.,, F'"ANCllCo 4

Basis of Account ing:

'r'U ico N 1-eJJI

The fina ncial stateme nts are stated on the cash basis of
time of the
account ing. Transac tions general ly are recorded at thebills unpaid
receipt or payment of cash. current op~ra ting expense
·
were of nominal amount.
2.

Insuranc e Premiums Advanced for Lodges:

CCllllpreh ensive liabilit y insuranc e is purchase d by Grand
e covered
Lodge on a three-ye ar basis to cover the Lodges not otherwis Lodges
by such insuranc e. Premium s are col lected frOID the covered
on an annual premium baaie.
4.

Reserve for "Cal ifornia Freemaso n":

The 1958 Commun ication authoriz ed the establis hment of the
time when the
Reserve for "Califor nia Freemaso n" to prov ide for the
s , may not
cash receipts , due to the prior prepaym ent of subsc r iption
The 1964
equal the current expenses of publishi ng the magazine . to all members
Communic ation authoriz ed distribu tion of the magazin e
in Grand
at Grand Lodge expense. A 25 cents per member i ncrease
and distriLodge per cap~ta is to be used to cover costs of printing
ly l, 1965.
Ju
g
bution, which will b e effectiv e for the year beginnin
$4,000,
to
The Reserve for "Califor nia Freemaso n" has been reduced
tions of
as the estimate d liabilit y for tho se prepaym ents of subscrip
of t he
nonmemb er organiz ations and individu als. The reductio n
income for the
reserve in the amount of $35,945 has been t aken into
mailing
current year to partiall y offset printing , setting up, and
tion program.
coats inc urred in connecti on with the increase d distribu
5.

............ "".........

...,....Ttol~tWll'a

Furnitur e and Fixture s:

iGrand Lodge at the 1957 Commun ication approved the capital
nt after that
zation of amounts expended for furnishi ngs and equipmeand
amounted
1964
date. Addition s during the years ended June 30, 1965
asset is not
to $1,050 and $1,924, respecti vely. Depreci ation of this
being taken into account in the financia l stateme nts.
3.

Goorsu e. LTWAJrD

Conting ent Liabilit y:

The Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of
Pree and Accepted Mason• of the
State of C&liforn ia,
Californ ia Masonic Memorial Temple ,
1111 Californ ia Street,
San Francisc o, Californ ia 94108.
We have made an examina tion o f the 1965 Annual Return•
IA
Of the Conatitu ent Lodges of GRAND LODGE, P , & A. M. OF CALIFORN
'
in
Lodge
Grand
due
payments
the
on
and
hip
members
on
g
reportin
e•
Ordinanc
accordan ce with the provisio ns of the Constitu tion and
cation.
and the action taken by Grand Lodge a t the 1964 annual communi
accepted
y
generall
with
ce
accordan
in
made
Our examinat ion was
the
auditing standard s, and accordin gly included auch teat• of
accounti ng records a nd such oth er auditing procedur e• ae ..,.
consider ed neceasar y in the circU111s tances.
The total payments due Grand Lodge , baaed upon the 1965
ing
an nual returns, a.mount to $1,246,2 00, a s shown by the a ccompany
been
had
amount
hie
t
report,
this
atatemen t. At the date of
with the
collecte d in full and transfer red to the Grand Treaaure r,
in ~he
exceptio n of a balance of $9,5 72 arising from correcti ons
report.
thi•
of
date
the
at
return• which was in process of adjusbae nt

Under authoriz ation given at the 1953 Commun ication, Grand
Lodge ie the guaranto r of notes payable by Ca lifornia Masonic
totaled
Memoria l Temple. The origina l ainounts of these notes
1965.
$3 ,000,000 which has been reduced to $437,790 at June 30,
Auguat 13, 1965

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

GRAND LODGE, F, & A , M. OF CALIFORNI A

MASON IC HOMES AUDIT

292

293

STATEMENT OF 1965 ANNUAL RETURNS
LYBRAND. Ross BRos. €:.. MoNTGOM.ERY

Per iod When Received
Fi scal
July l, 1965
Total per Yea r Ended
Through
August 12,
1965 Annual June 30,
1965
Re turns
1965
Grand Lodge support
and activiti., s:
Master Masons on
June 30 , 1965
Lese, members of
Research Lodges
Members other than
of Research
Lodges
Less, members for
.,,hom pe r capita
.,,aived (i ncl uding
dues remitted)
Members s ubject to
per capita
Per capita for
"Californ ia
Freemas o n"

Degrees conferred
in year ended
June 30, 1965
Masonic Homes of
Californi a:
Members subject
to per capita
on June 30.
1965, as above
contribut ions of
initiates and
affiliate s
Californi a Masonic
Memorial Temple:
Members subject
to per capita
on June JO,
1965, as above
Contribut ions o f
initiates
George Washingto n
Ma sonic National
Memorial:
contribut ions of
initiates
Total

CERTIFIEO PUBLIC ACCOUNTAl' llTS
0NC

8USJ-t

STR EET

SAN FRANCISCO '4
YlJKOH l·SJ1)

~l'l l NCl~AL C !Tr&• OP' THE

244. 914
328
244,586

3,494
J25,474

lll......Q.2l

$ l. 35 $

325,474

w....m

.25

60,273

60,273

~

1.00

17. 918
403,665

17,918
403,665

24l. 092

1. so

361,638

361,638

25 . 00

177 , 875
539,513

, n ,226

l . 00

$

$134,525
134, 525

43,350
404,988

241, 092

241 , 092

6,123

9.00

55 737
296,829

42. 138
42 I 138

~.12J

1.00

6, 193

4,682

1,511

$~

H.!l~4,!l~~

$.,~~§

2!l!l

13,599
254,6 91

To the Tru stees of Masonic
Homes of Californ ia,
1111 Californ ia Street,
San Francisco , Californi a 94108.
We have exami ned the statemen t of assets, liabiliti es,
reserves, and fund balances of MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA, a
Californ ia nonprofi t corporati on, as of June 30, 1965, and the
related statemen t o f General Fund revenue received and expense
disbursed for the year t hen ended . Our examinat ion was made in
accordanc e with generally accepted auditing standards , and
according ly included s uch tests of the accountin g records and such
other auditing procedure s as we considere d nece ssary in the circumstance s. we.previo usly exami ned and reported upon the financia
l
statemen ts for the year ended June 30, 19 64.
In our opinion, the accompan ying financial statemen ts
present fairly the assets, liabiliti es, reserves, and fund balanc
es
of Masonic Homes o f Californ ia at June JO, 196 5 and 1964, arising
primarily from cash transacti ons, and the revenue received and
expense disbursed by it and the changes in reserves and in fund
balances during the years then ended, on a consisten t basis after
giving effect to the changes referred to in Note 7.

August 17, 1965

294

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

I
I

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- Statement of assets, liabilities, reserves,
and fund balances
Exhibit B - Statement of General Fund revenue received
and expense disbursed
Exhibit c - General Fund
Exhibit D - Property Fund
Exhibit E - Reserves for special purposes
Exhibit F - Endowment and trust funds
Exhibit G - Permanent Endowment Fund
Exhibit H - John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
Exhibit I - George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarship Fund ·
Exhibit J - George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund
Harriet c. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
Exhibit K
Exhibit L
N. Flint Trust Fund
Exhibit M - Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
Exhibit N
Residents' accounts
Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund
Exhibit 0
Exhibit p
The Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund
Investments
Schedul.e 1
(Consolidated schedule of
investments , other than
investments of the
Permanent Endowment Fund}
Schedule 2
Inve stments - Permanent Endowment Fund of
The Masonic Homes of California
Schedule 3 - Detail of reserves for special purposes
Schedule 4
Details of expense
Schedule 5
Detail of property additions
Notes to financial statements
TWO Page•
Exhibit A

c:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

295

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A
STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIAB ILITI ES, RESERVES, ANO FUND BALANCES
June 30 , 1965 and 1964

A S S E T S:
Ge neral Fund a nd Reserves:
cash
Inv estments (at book value)
Schedule 1 (Note 2) 1
Bonds (market value $1,501, 987
a nd $ 1 ,456.171)
Prefe r red stock (market value
$3 8,550 a nd $20 , 65 0)
Common stock (market va lue
$ 1,881,645 and $1,587,759)
Total (market v alu e $3, 422,182
and $3,064,580)
Notes re ce iva ble (Note 3)
Other assets (Note 4)
Tot al as s e ts - General Fu nd
a nd Reserves
Prope7ty Fund - land, buildings, and
equipment, Exhibit D (Note 5)
Endowment a nd t r us t funds - principa ll y
cash a nd securi ties, Exhibit F

l 9 6 s
$

322 , 912

l 9 6 4
$

779,986

1, 558, 333

l , 517, 719

42,930

2 0,791

1, 50 2 ,26 7

1,208, 651

3, 10 3, 530
138, 299
3,258

2,747,1 61
165,743
5 045

3,567 , 999

J ,697 , 935

6,885,639

6,436,762

17' 796, 249

15,7 26,3 12

$2§ , 2:12 .!~§7

$2~,!il!j;j,, QQ2

6 1,65 5

26,5 62

2, 797, 345
708 ,999
3, 567 , 999
6,885 , 639

2,872, 727
798,646
3,697,935
6,436,762

17' 796, 249

15,726,312

$2§,2:12,§§Z

$, ~.~!j;!, ,QQ2

LIABILITIES, RESERVES,
ANO FUND BALANCES:
General Fund and Reserves:
Ac crued e xpense
Reserves for s p ecial purposes ,
Exhibit E (Note 6)
General Fund b alance, Exhibit c
Property Fund balance , Exhibit D
Endowment a nd t r u st fund b alances,
Exhi bit F

The accOJnp anying notes are a n integral
part of t h e financia l etatementa .

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT B

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND REVENUE RECEIVED
AND EXPENSE DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

$

Endowment and trust funds income: .
Permanent Endowment Fund, Exhibit G
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund,
Exhibit H
Leonard Gross Memorial Fund
Investment income:
In te rest on:
Bank savings account
Time certificate of deposit
Notes receivable
Bonds
Dividends on stocks
Payments through Lodges for :
Decoto residents
Covina residents
Other income
Total revenue
Expense, Schedule 4 (~ote 7):
Operation of Masonic aomea:
Decoto Home
Covina Home
outside relief of Masonic Homes
Total expense of homes and
relief
Administrative and g eneral
Total expenae

$

240,995

$

240, 979

181. 675
422 , 670
1,619
4211051

178,700
419,679
1,700
417,979

599,393

486,936

2,852
602 ,245

2,747
7
489,690

17,374
2,000
8,995
58,882
41, 974
129,225

8,920
20,539
11,046
38,255
51,677
130,437

17,387
25,384
42,771
8,058
1,203,350

21,700
28,520
50,220
2,260
1, 090,586

l ,307, 223
382,679
12,904

l, 243, 012
354,153
16 ,660

1,702,806
l00,368
1,803 ,174

1,613,825
91, 203
· l,705,028

~221~'~

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

EXHIBIT C

1 9 6 4
Balance, beginning of year

Less, adjustments for previous years

Excess of expense over
revenue, Exhibit C

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND BALANCE
For the year~ ended June 30, 1965 and 1964
(Note 7)

1 9 6 s
Revenue r eceived fromi
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., per annual
returns:
.
Membership at $1 per capita
contributions of initiates and
affiliates at $25 each

297

$

l 9 6 5

1 9 6 4

$798,646

$600,618

959
83,588
11,554
69, 980
5,392
l,844
173,317

76,832
16,049
61, 069
5,656
2 547
162 ,153

258,936

263,536

77' 924
510, 177

386,781
812 , 4 70

599,824

614,442

(89,647)

198, 028

$7Q!il,222

$72!il 1§4§

Add, transfers from reserves for
special purposes:
For expenses of t he Homes, from :
Reserve for Addi t ions and
Replacements
Covina Reserve
Decoto Reserve
Unappropriated Reserve
Cov ina Entertainment Reserve
Decoto Entertairunent Reserve
From Unappropriated Reserve in an
amount equivalent to the pensions
assigned by resident s of the
Decoto Home in the current year
Net gain on sales of secur itie s
Less , e xcess of expense over r evenue
for the year, Exh ibit B
Net increase (decrease) in
General Fund balance during year
Balance, end of year, Exhibit A

§~~.~~2

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statement•.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

298

EXHIBIT D

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC, ROMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT E

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
June 30, 1965 and 1964

PROPERTY FUND
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1965 and 1964

Schedule 3,
Paqe
A S S E T S:

299

l 9 6 5

l 9 6 4

Land, buildings, and equipment
(Note 5):
Decoto Home
Covina Home
San Francisco office

$5,801,632
1, 065,097
18,910

$5,412, 729
1,019,739
4 294

Tdtal assets

$ 6 ,885,639

$6.436, 76?

Reserve for Additi ons and
Replacements
Covina Reserve
Decoto Reserve
Unappropriated Reserve
Covina Entertainment Reserve
Decoto Entertainme nt Reserve

1 9 6 4

l 9 6 5

1

$

2

3
4
5
5

Total, Exhibit A

173,031
l_,283,088
467,848
864,476
3,103
5,799

$2.2221 ~:l~

$

273 , 199
1,183,766
404,616
1,004, 536
2 , 381
4,22 9

$*.!lZ*• 7~ Z

FUND BALl\NCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Additions (Schedule 5) to:
Decoto Home, from:
Reserve for Additions and
Replacements
Decoto Reserve
unappropriated Reserve
c. N. Flint Trust Fund
Covina Home, from:
Covina Reserve
San Franc isco office, from:
Reserve for Additions and
Replacements
Total additions
Balance, end of year

$6,436,762

$5,497,739
ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS
June 30, 1965 and 1964

100,000
211,203
77' 700
388,903

250,000
439,741
212,392
902,133

45,358

36,765

14,616
448, 877

125
939,023

$§dilf.l~1 §~2

$§,4~§,7§2

l

Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic
Homes of California, Exhibit G
J ohn and Lena Luckenbach Fund, Exhibit H
George F. Brigham and Laura ·E. Brigham
Scholarship Fund, Exhibit I
George M. and Florence G. Peri ne Endowment
Fund, Exhibit J
Harriet c. Wadlei~h Endowment Annuity
Fund, Exhibit K
c. N•. Flint Tru s t Fund, Exhibit L
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund,
Exhibit M
Residents' Accounts, Exhibit N
Florence Katherine Burt Trust FUnd,
Exhib it 0
The Edmund Clement Atkinson .Fund,
Exhibit P
Total, Exhibit A

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

EXHIBIT P

9 6 5

1 9 6 4

$16,786,599
80,487

$15,161,522
81, 02 2

41,537

41,537

20 , 379

20, 379

9,544
280,372

10, 132
330 ,17 9

22,698t
64,465

22,252
59, 289

222,264
267' 904
UZ1Z:!!i,a~2

The acc0111panying notes are an integral
part of the financial statement•.

$;!.~.za!i.~••

LIP OR NIA

301

IFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES OP CAL
BACH FUND
JOHN ANO LENA LUCJCEN

EXHIBIT H

GR AN D LODGE OP CA
PRO CEE DIN GS OP TH

300

E

IFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CAL
FUND
ENT
OWM
PERMANENT END

EXHIBIT G

t no
of Gra nd Lod ge s o e,tha
and
cte d by Ord ina nce s
poa
pa rt of the pri rom sha ll be use d onl y for the ma
the inc ane the ref
the Mas oni c Hom es.
gen era l op era tio n of
AND FUND BALA.NCE
STATEMENT OF ASSETS5 and 196 4
Jun e 30, 196
l 9 6 4
l 9 6 5
A S S E T S:
628 ,85 1
tim e ce rti fic ate s
$ 1,3 36, 428 $
Sav ing s acc oun ts and
2:
of dep osi t
le
edu
k val ue) , Sch
Inv est me nts (at boo ue $6, 986 ,14 0 and
8,2 33. 916
7,2 70, 493
Bon ds (m ark et val

tri
pur
exp end ed for any ena
The pri nc ipa l isncres
nce and
ipa l sha ll eve r be
int

$7, 979 , 340 )

240 ,99 1
et val ue $18 0,3 87
200 , 664
Pre fer red stock (m ark
88)
1,4
$22
a nd
6,0 21, 859
val ue $8, 493 ,09 2
7,9 49, 027
Common sto ck (m ark et
)
341
,
063
,
7
$
and
ark et val ue
14, 496 ,76 6
15, 420 , 184
To tal sec uri tie s (m ,26 4,1 69)
35, 889
29 973
$ 15 ,65 9,6 19 and $15
16
te 3)
(No
14
e
abl
eiv
rec
tes
No
4)
te
(No
522
.
ets
161
,
ass
$15
er
99
Oth
$16 ,78 6,5
To tal ass ets
FUND BALANCE:
,48 7 556
$15 ' 161 . 522 $13
ing of yea r
inn
Ba lan ce , beg
734 ,95 9
798 ,88 1
Inc rea se in fun d: made thr oug h Lod ges
ns
tio
Co ntr ibu
48, 014
ple dge s 62, 436
Pro gre ss pay me nts on
106 ,66 2
9
,02
ted
453
oca
all
un
764 ,88 7
292 ,02 5
Be que sts
sec uri tie s
of
e
sal
on
n
gai
t
Ne
s
5,2 52
organi~ation
5,5 13
Co ntr ibu tio ns fro m
13, 267
13, 193
and ind i vi dua ls
Me lllO rial s
925
d Gro ss Me mo rial
Tra nsf er fro m Leo nar
22
1.5
.16
Fun d
$15
599
,
6
$16 ,78
r, Ex hib it F
Ba lan ce, end of yea
E RECEIVED
STATEMENT OF REVENU
4
Jun e 30, 19 65 and 196
ed
end
rs
yea
the
r
Fo
l 9 6 4
1 9 6 5
1 5, 729
$
507
,
8
$
195 ,02 4
ts
oun
acc
5
k
,99
ban
340
on
Int ere st
273 ,91 7
249 ,34 6
Int ere st on bon ds
2,2 08
0
2
5
cks
1,
sto
on
Div ide nds
58
e
abl
eiv
rec
25
es
not
on
Int ere st
ate
est
l
rea
m
fro
e
om
Ne t inc
to Ge ner al
Stll~.2~~
Rev enu e tra nsf err ed
$
~22.~2J $
it B
Fun d inc om e , Ex hib
al
egr
int
es are an
The acc om pan yin g not cia l sta tem ent s.
pa rt of the fin an
I

s of the Will
tri cte d by the term
to be kep t int act
The pri nci pal is res
the ben efi t of the car e of orp han s or the
for
y
onl
d
use
om~
a.
rni
and t~e inc
es of Sou the rn Ca lifo
age d in Ma son ic Hom
E
ANO FUND BAIANC
STATEMENT OF ASSETS 5 and 196 4
196
30,
Jun e
A S S E T S:

Sav ing s acc oun t
val ue) , Sch edu le 1:
Inv es tme nts (at boo k
8)
$41 ,34 5 and $42 ,75
ue
Bon ds (ma rke t val
and
t v alu e $26 • 313
Common sto ck (ma rke

l 9 6 4

$11 , 0 13

$~

44, 690

44 , 720

24, 784

30, 666

(ma rke t val ue
Tot al secu rit ies ,14
6)
$67 ,6 58 a nd $73

69, 474

75, 386

To tal ass ets

$~

$~

$81 , 0 22

$78 , 144

$30 , 388 )

Ba lan ce,

l 9 6 5

FUND BAIANCE:
beg inn ing of yea r

of sec uri tie s
Ga in (lo ss) on sal e
r , Exh ibi t F
Ba lan ce, end of yea

-l lli l -L.fil!!
$~

$~

E RECEIVED
STATEMENT OF REVENU30,
19 65 and 196 4
une
J
ed
end
rs
For the yea

Int ere st rec eiv ed
Div ide nds on sto cks
to Ge ner al
Rev enu e tra nsf err ed
B
Fun d inc om e, Ex hib it

es are an i nte gra l
The acc om pan yin g not ial sta tem ent s.
anc
fin
the
of
pa rt

l 9 6 5

1 9 6 4

$ l, 710

$ 1 , 367

___ L,ll i

1 ,38 0

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

302

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT I

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

The principal is held in trust as a scholarship fund for the benefi~
of the Covina Home residents, $25,000 of which may be loaned for thi•
purpose, and the income is re•tricted and may be used only for
providing scholar•hips.
STATEMENT OP ASSETS AND FUND BALANCB
June 30, 1965 and 1964
9 6 5

l

$_Llll

Savings account
Investments (at book value), Schedule 1 :
Bonds (market value $21,851 and $21,880)
common stock (market value $21,275 and
$20,275)
Total securities (market value
$43,126 and $42,155)
Total assets

$.....Ll.ll

22!101

22,101

17' 924

17,924

40,025

40,025

$il..ill $il...m

STATF.MENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30 , 1965 and 1964
A S S E T S:
Savings account

1 9 6 4

$....h.llQ.

$-1...l.lQ.

10,000

10,000

9,109

-2....!Q2.

19,109

19,109

$~

$ll...m

$~

$~

l 9 6 5

1 9 6 4

350

360

Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $8,844 and
$8, 906)
Common stock (market value $9 , 462 and
$9,013)
Total securities (market value
$18,306 and $17,919)
Total assets

$42,396

Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

__ill.
$.u.m

$il..ill

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964
Interest received
1965

1964

Interest received

$

$

Dividends on •tocks
Revenue transferre4 to Students'
Loan and Scholarship Fund,
Exhibit M

~

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

1 9 6 5

FUND BALANCE:
$41,537

Net loss on sale of securities
Balance, end of year, Exhibit P

The principal is subject to the provision included in the Will of the
testator, that it shall be kept intact and the income thereof only
s h all be used for the benefit of the Decoto Home.

1 9 6 4

FUND BALl\NCE:
Balance, beginning of year

EXHIBIT J

GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. PERINE
ENDOWMENT FUND

GEORGE F.- BRIGHl\M AND IAURA E, BRIGHl\M
SCHOIARSHIP PUND

AS S B 'l' S:

303

893

728

_J1QQ.

Div idends on stocks
Revenue transferred to Decoto
Reserve, page 3 of
Schedule 3

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial state ments,

$

GRA ND LODGE OP CAL IFO
PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

304

C. N. FLINT TRUST FUND

trac t
, is sub ject to a con
ina l amo unt of $30 ,000cer
es out
uiti
ann
life
tain
Thi a fund , in the origng
of
for the paym ent
term s of the con trac t,
wit h the don or pro vidi
me the reof . Und er the
the ann uiti es is_ to
of
t
of the prin cip al and inco
men
pay
in
exp end ed
ann uiti es no
the
n
only prin cip al of the fund
whe
fund
the
to
inco me
be late r rest ore d out of inco me. Aft er rest ora tion of the prin cip al
long er abso rb t he ent ire$30 ,000 , the inco me from the fund is to be used
to the orig ina l sum of
den ts of the Cov ina Home.
for the ben efit of the resi
FUND BAIANCE
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND 1964
June 30, 1965 and

Sav ings acc oun t

9 6 4

l 9 6 5

l

$ 2,89 7

$ J,48 5

~

.-&...Ml

$..i .,jil

$12 ..J.l l

e), Sch edu le 1:
Inv estm ents (at boo k valu
e $9,2 00 and
valu
rket
(ma
k
Coll"l!lon stoc
$9,4 38)
Tot al ass ets

The inco me from
gif ts from c. N. Fli nt.
Th e prin cip al con sist s ofated by the trus tee s for use at the l>eco·to
ign
the fund has bee n des
Home.
FUND BALANCE
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND 196 4
Jun e 30, 196 5 and
l 9 6 5

l 9 6 4

5,89 5

$ 13,0 60

222 ,532

225 ,930

ll,4 51

11,4 51

4 0,4 94

79, 738

274 ,477

317 ,119

$28 0.37 2

$33 0,17 9

$33 0,17 9
27 993
358 , 072

$323 ,998
6, 191

A S S E T S:
Sav ings acc oun t
ue) , Sch edu le l:
Inve stm ent s (at boo k val
5,74 1 and
$21
e
Bon ds (ma rket valu
$22 0, 538)
valu e
Pre ferr ed stoc k (ma rket
$9,4 50 and $10 ,050 )
e $64 ,888 and
Common stoc k (ma rket valu
$13 5, 969 )
valu e
Tot al sec uri ties (ma rket
$29 0,07 9 and $33 6,55 7)
Tot a l ass ets

$

FUND BALANCE:

FUND BALANCE:
r
Bal anc e, beg inni ng of yea
urit ies
sec
of
sale
on
Lea s, loss
ove r reve nue
Les s, exc ess of ann uiti es
ibit F
Bal anc e, end of yea r, Exh

$10 ,132

$11 ,415
__.i l§_

10,9 97

~

_r u

$..2 ,.j,i i

$12 ..J.l l

d by the agre eme nt

Lea s, .rev enue :

Inte res t rece ived
Div iden ds on stoc ks
reve nue
Exc ess of ann uiti es ove r
are an inte gra l
The accompa nyin g not es al
stat eme nts.
nci
fina
the
of
t
par

r
Bal anc e, beg inni ng of yea
uri ties
sec
of
sale
Net gain on
furn itur e
Les s , app rop riat ion for l es Albert
r
Cha
for
ent
ipm
equ
and
Adams Hal l at Dec oto

I

77,7 00

ibit F
$28 0. 372
Bal anc e, end of yea r, Exh
EIVED
STATEMENT OF REVENUE REC
30, 196 5 and 1964
For the yea rs end ed Jun e

AND REVENUE RECEIVED
STATEMENT OF ANNUITIESd PAID
30, 1965 and 196 4
June
ende
rs
yea
the
For

Ann uiti es paid as req uire

EXHIBIT L

NIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR
EXHIBIT K

NIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR
NT
HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWME
ANNUITY FUND

A S S E T S:

305

RNI A

l 9 6 5

l 9 6 4

$~

$...!.....]2.Q

124

169

___ ill!

_f il.

--1 §1.

___!!!~:

$~

$~

$33 0, 172

l 9 6 5

Int ere st rec eiv ed
Div iden d• on stoc ks
Dec oto
.Rev enue tran sfe rred to edu le 3
Res erve , pag e 3 of Sch
an inte gra l
The acco mpa nyi ng note s arestat eme nts.
al
nci
fina
the
of
par t

l

9 6 4
7 ,586
4 , 931

$

8,72 7
3 ,213

$

$

ll124Q

$ ;1. 2 .~•2

GRA ND LOD GE OF CAL
PRO CEE DIN GS OF TH E

306

of amo unt s hel d l.' n t r ust for the res ide nts of
Thi s fun. d con sis ts ato
Homes .
th e COVl.na and Dec

me of the fun d i• ola rsh ip
from gif ts. The inco
den t loa n and sch
stu
The pri nci pal ari ses
for
use
for
es
des ign ate d by the tru ste
pur pos es.
FUND BALANCE
STATEMENT OP ASSETS 5AND
Jun e 30, 196 and 196 4
AS SE TS :
Sav ing s acc oun t
ue) , Sch edu le 1:
Inv est me nts (at boo k val
953 )
Bon ds (ma rke t val ue $4,
ue $10 ,44 2 and
Common sto ck (ma rke t val
t val ue
To tal sec uri tie s (ma)rJce
$15 ,39 5 and $9, 969

FUND
STATEMENT OF ASSETS 5AND
4
Jun e 30, 196 and 196

1 9 6 5

1 9 6 4

$~

$12 ,12 5

10, 127

10, 127

15, 100

10, 127

$ll .,W

$.l l.m

To tal ass ets
PUND BALANCE 1
yea r
Bal anc e, beg inn ing of
sec uri tie s
of
e
sal
on
Gai n (lo ss)

$17 ,22 8
3,6,3 5
(3)

$22 ,25 2

__ _!i l

~

Cas h

9 6 4

$34 ,02 3

$21 ,62 9

24, 901

24, 900

...2..i...fil

12 ,76 0

30 , 442

37, 660

$il ..m

$~

$59 ,28 9

.... hil l.

$55 ,96 9
~

$~

$il ..m

s

1 9 6 4

324

338

$ l,3 54
8,3 35

...!.....ill

--- .iil

$.. l... m

$~

k val ue) , Sch edu le 1:
Inv est me nts (at boo
567 and
Bon ds (ma rke t val ue $24
•

ue $6 300
Common sto ck (ma rke t val
'
and $13 ,72 2)
t val ue
rke
(ma
s
tie
To tal sec uri
$30 ,86 7 and $38 ,29 7)
To tal ass ets

l

Re sid ent s' a cco unt s:
yea r
Bal anc e, beg inn ing of
Net add itio ns
Ex hib it F
Bal anc e, end of yea r,

E RECEIVED
STATEMENT OF REVENU
e 30, 196 5 and 196 4
For the yea rs end ed Jun

E
STATEMENT OF NET REVENU
30, 196 5 and 196 4
e
Jun
ed
end
rs
yea
the

1 9 6

l 9 6 5

inv est me nts :
Rev enu e rec eiv ed from
Int ere st rec eiv ed
Div ide nds on sto cks

9 6 5

l

FUND BALANCE:

Net rev enu e
Ex hib it F
Bal anc e, end of yea r,
For

BA.LANCE

A S S E T S:

$24 ,57 5)

4,9 73

$9, 969 )

EXHIBIT N

RNIA
MASONIC HOM.ES OF CALIFO
RESIDENTS' ACCOUNTS

EXHIBIT M

RNIA
MASONIC HOM.ES OP CALIFO
OlARSHIP FUND
STUDENTS' L01\N AND SCH

307

IFO RNI A

l 9 6 4

__ il2 .

194
~

938

1,0 58

Lau ra E. Brigh&111
1,7 40
Geo rge P. Bri gha m and om e, Exh ibit I
inc
d
Fun
ip
rsh
ola
Sch
fil ;
_]
and org ani zat ion •
3,0 59
Gif ts from ind ivi dua ls
To tal rev enu e rec eiv ed
....b..fil:Q
pur pos es
Loa ns for edu cat ion al
Net rev enu e
e• are an int egr al
The acc omp any ing not
ial sta tma ent s.
anc
fin
the
par t of

1,5 28
--W .1§ .

$

492

$

4,1 02

_b 1ll

Div ide nds on stocks
tie s
Gai n on sal e of sec uri
Int ere st rec eiv ed
Dec oto
Rev enu e tra nsf err ed toSc hed ule 3
Res erv e, pag e 3 of

are an int egr al
The a cca npa nyi ng not esial sta tem ent s.
par t of the fin anc

$

308

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
EXHIBIT 0

MA~Q NIC

FLORENCE KATHERI NE BURT TRUST FUND

HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT P

THE EDMUND CLEMENT ATKI NSON FUND

The principal of this fund is subject to the pr?vision in t h e W~ll of
the testator, that it shal l be used for renovating present premises
or making permanent a ddit i ons to the Masonic Homes within a per i od o f
ten years from January 5, 196 5, the date of the decree of distribution.
One-third of the principal i s des i gnated for the Covina Home and twothirds for the Decato Home.

The principal of this fund is subject to the provision in the Will of
the testator, that it shall be used to contribute to the comfort,
convenien~e, and e njoyment of th e residen t s of the Decato Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1965

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1965

A S S E T S:
Cash

ASSETS:

$ 28,718

Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:

$

Cash

309

2.988

Bonds (market value $27 , 415)

26,875

Preferred stock (market value $29,875)

32,603

2,000

Common stock (market value $177,603)

179,706

Common stock (market value $205,267)

217,272

Total (market value $234,893)

239,18 4

Total "(market value $207,347)

219,272

Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bonds (mark et value $2,080)

Real estate (Note 4)

4

Real estate (Note 4}

2

Total assets

$267. 904

$ 2 22.2 64

Total assets

FUND BALANCE:
FUND BALANCE:
Bequest of Florence K. Burt

Bequest of Edmund Mansfield Atkinson

$219, 757

Add:
Interest received

2 56

Di vidends on stocks

879

Inccme from real estate
Loss o n sa l e of s e curiti e s
Balance a t June 30, 1 965 , Exhibit F

1,431
(59)
$ 22 2. 264

$234,590

Add:
Excess of proceeds of two parcels of real
estate over·their nominal value
assigned when bequest was received

2,783

Dividends on s t ocks

4,450

Income f rom real estate
expenses $624)

(inco me $ 6 45,

less

Ot her

2l
111

Balance at June 30, 1965, Exh i b i t F

The a ccompanying no tes are an int e g ral
par t o f the finan c i a l statements.

25, 949

Interest received

The a ccompanying notes are an int e gral
part of the financial stat e me n t s.

$267 . 904

311

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

310

MASON1C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page l

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

(Consolidated schedule o f investments, other than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

l

f ·nvestmente, other than
(consolidated echedu e 0 1 nt :endowment Fund)
investments of the permane

~

BONDS

(Continued)

race Value

Book Value

Book value
Forward

Face value

$ 55,000
30,000
15,000
75,000
25,000

so.coo

5,000
5,000
205,000
30,000
1 0 ,000
15,000
27.000
12,000
3,000
1,000
2,000
30, 000
20.000
100,000
10.000
l0,000

chesa~eake & Ohio R~: 1)~~~a~~l/69
Equipment Trust,

Chesa~eake & Ohio R~: 15~~~a~~l/69

Equtpment Tru~t •
. company
Chesapeake & Ohio R~ 1/4% 8/1/69
Equipment Trust• .•
R R
Chicago, eurling~on3:73~~~c~/1i10"
Equtpment Tr US '
.
R R
Chicago, Burli ng~on3:73~~~c~/1i10·
Equipment Tru s '
4
2/1/77
Douglas Aircraft co • • %.
3/1/77
Dresser Industries, .4-1/8%,o
6 -1/2%. 6 / 1/66
810 south spring suil~in1
8/15/66
Federal Home Loan Ban ' : ; %'. 8/15/66
4 1 8
rederal Home Loan Ban~, -l/8%, 8/15/66
4
Federal Home Loan B:~k· 4 _ 1 / 8%. 8/15/66
Federal Home Loan B 4%• 6 / 20/68
Federal Land Banks'
' 6/20/68
Federal Land Banks, 4%,
First National city Bank o f New York,
4%, 7/1(90 l City Bank of New York,
First Nationa
4% 7/l/90
.
Bank of New Yor k •
1 c'ty
First• Nationa
i
4%. 7/1/90
Equipment Trust
Great No rthern RY· co .
No. 2. 4% , 6/1/68
Equipment Trust
Great Northern RY · co.
.
NO. 2 . . 4% • 6/1/68
. R R co. Equipment
Gulf Mobile & Ohio • .
Trust, 4-1/8%, 8~l/~~ R R. Equipment
Louisville and Nas v~% e3/i 5/7l
Trus~ , series EE. · iie R- R. Equipment
Louisville a~d Nashv~% 3/15/71
Trust, series EE,
•

i18%

$

55.137

$ 30,000

30,075-F

30 ,000

15,037-L

10,000

74,440

50,000

24,811-F
45,189
4,822
4,344
205,010
30,042-F
10,017-B
15,025-R
27' 192
12, 084-B

15 ,000

25,000
10,000

3,000

35,000

15,000

5,000
5,000

l,000-A

60,000

2,000-K

30,000

30, 134-F

10,000

20,089

50,000

100,106

320. 000
25,000
200,000
4. 250
191, 000
12,000
15,000
10 , 000
12,700

l0,000
10,000-F
729,554

ron1ard

SCHEDULE l
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipment Trust,
series J, 4%, 5/ 1/70
Norfolk and western Ry. Equipment Trust,
Se ri e s I, 3-7/8%, 1/1/72
Norfolk and west ern Ry. Equipment Trust,
serie s I, 3-7 /8%, l/1/72
Norfol k and western Ry . Equipment Trust,
Series J, 4% , 5/1/70
Seaboard Air Line R. R. Equipment Trust,
Series w. 4%, 2/ 1/ 71
Seaboard Air Line R. R. Equipment Trust ,
Serie s w, 4%, 2/1/71
Sinclair oil corp., 4-3 / 8%, 12/1/ 86
Southern Pacific R· R. Equipment Trust
No. 19 , 3-7 / 8%, 1/1/71
Southern Pacific R. R. Equipment Trust,
4-1/ 4%, 4 /1/69
southern Pacific R. R. Equipment Trust,
4-1/4%, 4 / 1 / 69
southern Pacific R- R- Equipment Trust,
4-1/ 4% , 4 / 1/69
Southern Ry. Company Equipment Trust,
Series JV\A, 4-3 /8%, 3 / 16/68
southern Ry. Company Equipment Tr u st,
Series ZZ, 4%, 8 / 15/70
southern Ry. Company Equipment Trust,
series zz, 4%, 8 / 15 /70
Texas and Pacific Ry. company Equipment
Trust. Series V, 4-1 / 8%, 7/1/68
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 9/15/72
u . s. Treasury Bonde, 2-1/2%, 9/15/72
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 4%, 2/ 15/69
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 9/15/7 2
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 2/ 15/90
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 2/ 15/90
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 2/15/90
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, ll/15/98
Virginian Ry. Company, 6%, 8/l/08
Fon1ard

$

729 , 554
30, 000-F
29 ,624
9 ,876- R
50 ,000
14,951
14,949-F
25 ,875 -A.
9,888
4 ,973- L
4,973-S
34 ,814
60,420
30, 000
10,000-P
50,054
313, 75 5
24,297-F
200,063
3, 7 53
194 , 850
11,453-F
14 ,384-L
10 ,000- P
14 ,031

1,896,537

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

312

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIF ORN IA
SCHEDULE 1
Page 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIF ORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

I NVESTMENTS
J une 30, 1 965

1
f . vestm ents, other than
(cons olida ted schfedt~eeP~rm~~ent Endow
ment Fund)
inves tmen ts o

(Con solid ated s chedu le of inve stmen
ts, other than
.inves tmen ts of the Perma nent Endow
ment Fund )

BONDS (Cont inued )

Forwa rd
l , 600
2,8 00

s.ooo

10,00 0

COMMON STOCK
$1, 896,5 37
1,605 -F
2 , 800
5,166 -F
10,29 6-L

"ells Fargo Bank 3-1/4 %. 9 / l 5 l 09
"
9 /15/8 9
wells .Fargo Bank'· 3-1/4%
3 _3/4%. 11/15 /75
Whee ling ste el corp ., 3-3
/4%
11/15 /75
Whee ling steel corp. •
•
One bond _ nomin al value
Tota l bonds

l

$b,9 16,40 5

PREFERRED STOCK
Book Valu e
100
1 00
500
500

SCHEDULE 1
Page 4

Book value

Face value

$

313

Kaise r Alumi num and Chem ical, 4-l/8 "
()Wens -Illi nois Glass co •• 4'){.
Signa l Oil and Gas co., 2. 4 '){.
Signa l oi l a nd Gas c o. , 2 • 4%

$

1 0,327
11,45 1 -F
32. 603
32 ,603-A

Tota l pre ferre d stock

$

8 6,984

Book v alu e
102
400
100
25 0
1 00
200
2 00
1,600
257
300
1 00
160
400
100
2 00
200
600
1 00
100
200
400
696
200
59
102
16
100
660
119
1 00
1 00
100

Allie d Chemi cal corp.
Alum inum Compa ny of Amer ica
Alumi num Compa ny o f Ameri ca
Amer i can Cyana mid Compa ny
Amer ican Te lepho ne a nd Teleg raph
compa ny
Ame rican Telep hone a nd Tele graph
Compa ny
As socia tes I nvest ment Compa ny
Asso ciate s Inves tment Compa ny
Bank of Amer ica N.T. & S.A.
Champ ion Pape rs, Inc.
C .I .T . Finan cia l Corp oratio n
Cleve la nd Ele c tric I ll umina tin g
Compa ny
Colum bia Gas Syste m, In c .
Colum bia Gas Sys t em, Inc.
Co lumbi a Gas Syste m, I nc .
Col umbia Gas Syste m, I nc.
comme rcia l c redit Compa ny
Comme rcia l Cred it Compa ny
Comme r cia l Cre dit Compa ny
Comm ercial cred i t Comp any
conso lidat ed Edi son compa ny of New
Conso l i dated Ediso n compa ny o f New York, Inc .
York, Inc.
Conso lid a ted Natur al Gas Compa ny
Cons ta nt Cons tr uct ion Contr ol Compa
ny
Cor ona Footh ill Lemon Co .
cos mopol itan Realt y co .
Crock er-ci ti zens National Bank
Crown Zelle rbach Cor porat ion
Dow chem ical Comp any
Duqu esne Light Compa ny
Duque sne Light Compa ny
Puque sne Light Compa ny
Forwa rd

$

6,370
29 ,91 2
7,436 -L
12 . 556
6,896
1 3 ,8 45 - K
5,668 - K
45 ,480
1 3 ,498
9,631
4 , 077- B
5, 050
1 2, 588
2 , 657- R
5,641 - F
6,571 - K
23, 625
3,990- B
3, 989- F
9 , 206- K
17, 871- A
29,44 5
15 , 297
580
30,60 0
3 ,8 4 0
4 ,516- A
33 , 605
9 ,209

2,894- R
2,984 -s
2,884- W
38 1 ,201

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
page 5

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
investments of the permanent Endowment Fund)

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
investments of the Permanent End owment Fund)

COMMON STOCK (Continued)

500
500
210
332
200
500
11,400
1,260
300
100
200
100
335
200
33
304
20
100
600
200
944
200
llO
510
408
200
419
100
200
200

Duquesne Light Co mpany
Duquesne Light company
Eastman Kodak Company
El paso Natura l Gas Company
El paso Natural Gas Co mpan y
El Paso Natural Gas Company
F a irview Extension Mining Company
Fireman ' s Fund Insur ance Company
Firs t National city Bank o f New Yo rk
First National City Bank of New York
First Nation al city Bank of New York
First National Bank o f Hawaii
Gener al Electric Company
General Electric Company
General public Utilities Corporation
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co.
Gulf oil corporation
Hercules Powder Company
Honeywell, Inc.
Ingersoll-Rand co.
Insurance company of Nor t h America
Insurance compan y of North America
Interstate power co.
Irving Trust company of New York
Irving Trust Company of New York
Irving Trust company of New Yo rk
Kai ser Aluminum and Chemical Corp.
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corp.
La cled e Gas Company
L acled e Ga s Compan y
Forward

SCHEDULE l
Page 6

COMMON S TOCK (Continued)
Book Value

Forward

315

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$

Book Value

381,201
17,683
17 ,683-K
11. 33 3
8 '203
4,635-K
11,146-A
57
42,867
17,533
5,745-A
11,690-K
6,083-F
25. 743
16,770-A
1,064
13 ,939
693
4,26 5
44, 611
8 , 748
85,435
18,497-A
3' 008
22,292
17,839-A
8,555-K
15,283
4,441-P

5 , 517-K
5 ,140-A
8 37 , 6 99

Forward
100
100
100
200
l,300
100
200
525
217
300
200
100
l,000
1,167
400
200
20 0
200
200
420
30 0
129
100
200
80 0
400
21
400
2 00
5, 500
300
200
200
100
2 25
2 ,8 5 5
200
408
200
1 00

Liggett & Myers Tobacco co.
Liggett & Myers T obacco co.
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas Company
P. Loril l ard Company
Luther Burb ank Financial Company
Marat hon Oil Company
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.
National Lead Co.
Niagara Moh awk Power Corporation
Nor t hwestern Mortgage Company
Oh i o Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edi s o n Company
Oh io Edison Company
Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp.
Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Company
Parke, Davis & co.
J. c. Penney co.
J. C. Penney Co.
Pennsylvania Power and Light Company
Philadelphia Electric Company
Procter & Gamble Company
Ra mona Savings and Loan Association
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
R. J. Re ynolds Tob a c c o Company
.
San t a Rosa Savin g s and L oan Asso c iatio n
Safew ay Store s, Inc .
Sche r ing Cor p.
Scher ing Corp .
Sea t tl e Fir st Na t ional Bank
S e c ur ity Fi r st National Ban k
Secu ri ty Fir st Na t i onal Bank
Securit y Fi rs t Na t i ona l Bank
Shel l O il Compan y
Si nger c o .
Smith Kline and F r ench Lab s
Forwa r d

$

837,699
11, 138
9 , 000 -L
2, 200-s
4 , 560-L
30,180
2, 280-B
9, 485-A
5,250

7 '777
17' 722
11,803-A
8,911
24,596
11,670

7,577-B
3,788-L
4,668 ?
3,763-w
8,583-A
16,669
11, 501
6,036
4,970-F

7 ,176
2 4,350
30,861
16,800
18, 719
9, 35 9 -A
145, 0 0 0
11, 21 3
10 , 639
9, 689 -A
6 ,445-A

1 ,957 - J?
105, 4 36
9, 033 -K
2 4, 939 -K
14, 719
6 , 2 08-A
1,514,449

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFOR NIA

PROCE EDING S OF THE

316

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 7

317

.MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 8

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

than
(Conso lidate d schedu le of invest ments , other
invest ment s of the Perma nent Endowment Fund)

than
(Cons olidat ed sched ule of invest ments , other
invest ments of the Perma nent Endow ment Fund)
COMMON STOCK (Conti nued)
Book value
Forwa rd
200
100

400
468
100
1,492
253

666
116

100
1,897
204
500
84
200
442
200
800
200
500
825
138
800
200
1,128
478
100

loo

200
611

l,000
300

smith Kline and French Labs
socony Mobil Oil Compa ny, Inc.
Southe rn Califo rnia Edison Company
southe rn Califo rnia Edison Compa ny
southe rn Company
southe rn Natur al Gas Company
southe rn Realty co.
standa rd Oi l Company (Calif ornia )
standa rd Oil Company (California)
standa rd Oi l Company (New Jersey )
Tenne ssee Gas Transm ission Company
Tenne ssee Gas Transm ission Company
Tenne ssee Gas Transm ission Company
Texaco , Inc.
Texas Utilit ies Co.
Transa merica Corpo ration
Union Carbid e corp.
Union Elect ric Compa ny
union Elect ric compan y
union Elect ric Compa ny
Union Oil compan y of Califo rnia
United States Gypsum Co.
Virgin ia Elect ric and Power Company
Virgin ia Elect ric and Power Compa ny
wel l s Fargo Bank
wells Fargo Bank
wells Fargo Bank
Wells Fargo Bank
wester n Banco rporat ion
Weste rn Banco rporat ion
F. w. Woolw orth Co.
.
F- w. Woolw orth co.
Four lots of secur ities, relati ng to .
Mason ic Templ es in certai n Califo rnia
cities , carrie d at a nomi~al value

$1, 514 ,449
13,304
4 ,843
14,350
19 ,480-K
6,688
37,479
399-F
37, 603
5,077 -F
8,147- A
44,254
4,9 63- S
12,532 -K
3,645
9,025
16 , 372
13. 753
22, 360
5, 716-F
15,609 -K
31,555 -K
13,822
40,452
l0,088 -K
31,842
6,662- F
4,491- A
4,240- K
7, 426-K
21,930
23,342
7,972- A
l

Total common stock

2,013, 871

Total invest ments

$4,017 ,260

Note:

ecurit ies
The forego ing schedu le in cludes all the s
t those
of t he Mason ic Homes of Califo rnia, excep shown
are
in the Perma nent Endowment Fund which for
the
on Sched ule 2. Secur ities are coded
follow ing funds:
A

The Edmund Cleme nt Atkins on Fund,
Exhib it P

B

George F. Brigha m and Laura E. Brigha m
Schol arship Fund, Exhib it I

40,025

F

C. N. Flint Trust Fund, Exhib it L

274,47 7

K

Floren ce Kathe rine Burt Trust Fund,
Exhib it 0

219,:27 2

L

John and Lena Lucken bach Fund,
Exhib it H

69,474

p

George M. a nd Floren ce G. Perine
Endow ment Fund, Exhib it J

19,10 9

R•

Resid ents' Accou nts, Exhib it N

30,442

s

Stude nts' Loan a nd Schol arsh ip Fund,
Exhi bit M

15,100

w

Harri et C. Wadlei gh Endow ment Annui ty,
Exhib it K

6, 647

(Uncod ed)

Gener al Fund, Exhibi t A
Total invest ments
(Sched ule 1, page 7)

$

239,18 4

3,103, 530
H.Op. 26!1,

GRAN D LODGE OP CALI FORN IA
PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

318

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page l

319
SCHEDULE 2
Page 2

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

BONDS (Cont inued )
Book Value
Book Value

Face Value
Forw ard

Face Value
$"

R. R. Equip ment
Atlan tic coas t Li ne
68
True t, 4-1/8 %, 9/1 /
ment
Coas t Line R. R. Equip
ntic
1'.tla
100,0 00
9
Trus t, 4-1/8 %, 9/1/6
Equip ment
Chesa peake & Ohio Ry. Co.
100,0 00
8
8/1/6
4%,
4-1/
Trus t ,
R.
Chica go, Burl i ngton & Quinc y R.
50,00 0
Equip ment Trus t, 2- 5/8%, 12/1/ 65
R.
Chica go, Burli ngton & Quinc y R.
50,00 0
Equip ment Trus t , 4-5/8 %, 7/1/6 8
Chica go Rock Islan d Pacif ic R. R.
100,0 00
Equip ment Trus t, 4-1/ 4%, 2/1/6 8
las Air craft Comp any, 4%, 2/1/7 7
Doug
50,00 0
7
er Indu str ies, 4-1/ 8%, 3/ 1 /78/15/
Dress
66
95.00 0
Bank, 4-1/8%,
Loan
Home
al
Feder
310,0 00
68
6/20/
4%,
Fede ral Land Bank,
222,0 00
n,
F edera l Natio nal Mor tgag e Asso ciatio
5 00 ,000
4-1/8 %, 8/10/ 71
n,
Fede ral Natio nal Mortga ge Asso ciatio
100,0 00
5-1/8 %, 2/10/ 72
York,
Firs t Natio na l City Bank of New
14,00 0
4%", 7/1/9 0
Equip ment Trus t,
Great North ern Ry. Co.
50,00 0
2-5/8 %, 12/1/ 68
Equip ment Trus t,
Grea t North ern Ry . Co.
100,0 00
4%, 6/1/6 9
Equip ment Trus t,
Grea t North ern Ry. Co.
200,0 00
4-1/ 4%, 4 /1 5/72
R. Co. Equip ment
Gulf Mobil e & Oh i o R.
100,0 00
9
Trust , 4-1/8 %, 8/1/6
4-3/8 %, 7/1/8 6
Hunt Foods & Indu strie s,
100,0 00
R. Equip ment
R.
le
l
i
Nashv
&
le
Lou isvil
100,0 00
1
6/1/7
%,
3-7/8
Trus t,
80,00 0

PoI""' ard

$

79,73 2

$

60,00 0

98,83 2

100,0 00

100,8 87

1 00,00 0

49,86 7

1 00,00 0

50,89 3

1 00,00 0

100,3 98
42,58 7
92, 763
31 0, 213
223,6 23

so.coo
200,0 00

5 05, 250

100,0 00

99, 911

200,0 00

14,00 0

70,00 0

49,60 8
100,2 61
198,2 24
99,09 8
106,6 )5

15,00 0

125, 000
100,0 00
100 , 000
55,00 0
90 ,000

98,82 8

60,00 0

2,421 ,610

40 ,000

ment
Loui svill e & Nash ville R. R. Equip
T rust. 4%, 3/15/ 71
ment
Loui svil l e & Nashv i l le R. R. Equip
Trus t, 4- 1 / 8%, 10/ 15/ 68
Trus t,
Mi ssour i Pacif ic R. R. Eq uipm ent
Serie s S. 4%, 5/1 / 70
Trus t,
Missou ri Pacif ic R. R. Eq uipm ent
Serie s S, 4-1/ 8%, 5/1/6 8
R.
New York, Chic ago & St. Lo uis R.
Equip ment Tru st, 4-3/ 8%, 4 / 15/ 69
Trus t,
Norfo lk and West ern Ry . Equ ipme nt
3- 7 / 8%, 1/ 1/72
t Trus t,
Norfo lk and Western Ry. Equ ipmen
4%, 5/ 1 / 7 0
t,
North ern Pacif ic Ry. Equip ment Trus
4-1/8 %, 3/18/ 70
t,
No rther n Paci fic Ry. Equip ment Trus
4-1/8 %. 3/ 18/73
Trus t,
Seabo ard Air Line R. R. Equip ment
4-1/ 4%, 6/1/7 1
Trus t,
Seabo ard Air Line R. R. Equip ment
71
1/
2/
j(,,
4
12/ 1 / 86
S i pcla ir Oil Corp oratio n, 4-3/ 8%, Trua t,
S o uther n Pacif ic Comp any Equip ment
serie s oo, 2-5/ 8%, 9 / 1/ 65
Trus t,
South ern Paci fic Compa ny Equip ment
Serie s 23, 4%, 11/ 1 / 68
Trus t,
S o uther n Paci fic Comp any Equip ment
4-1/4 %, 4/1/6 9
Trus t,
South ern Paci fic Compa ny Equip ment
Seri es 19, 3- 7/8%, 1 / 1/71
Trus t,
South ern Railw ay Comp any Equip ment
Serie s ZZ, 4%, 8/15/ 70
Trus t,
So u thern Railw ay Comp any Eq uipm ent
Serie s AAA, 4-3/ 8%, 3/16/ 68
Forw ard

$2 ,421, 610
60,00 0
99,66 5

99, 119
100,1 04
100, 360
49,3 74
1 5,000
197 ,622
97,54 9
197 ,926
69, 770
126,5 10
99,58 9
99,33 6
54, 708
88,98 8
60,00 0
40 , 280

4, 077, 510

321

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA
PROCEED INGS OP THE

320

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 3

SCHEDULE 2
Page 4

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OP THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

COMMON STOCK
BONDS (Continu ed)

Book Value

Book Value
Face Value

$ ~,077,SlO
Forward

$

100,000
50,000
50,000
50,000
730, 000
1,055,00 0
165, 000
730,000
17,300
3,100
100,000
135, 000

3, oo'o

southern Rai lway Company Equipme nt Trust,
.
Series AAA, 4-3/8%, 9/16/69
Texas and Pacific Ry. Company Equipme nt
Trust, Series V, 4-1/ 8%, 7(1/6~
Tri Dam Project , Oakdale Irrigati on
.
Distric t, 3.05%. 7/1/04
Tri Dam Project, South San Joaquin
7/1/04
Irrigati on Distric t, 3.0 5%,
u s Treasur y Bonds, 2-1/2%, 9/15/72
u' s· T r easury Bonds, 3-1/2%. 2/15/90
u· s· Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 11/ 15/98
u: s'. Treasur y Bonds, 4%, 2/15/69
Virginia n Ry . Company, 6%, 8/1/08
wells Fargo Bank, 3-1/4%. 9/15/89
we stern Marylan d Ry. Equipme nt Trust,
Series W, 4-1/ 4%. 11/ 15/69
Wheeling steel corpora tion, 3-3/4%,
ll/15/75

100,651
50,054

so. 109
50.109
713,660
1,084,95 3
165,753
730,300
19, 113
3, 131
100,260
124,890
$ 7,270,49 3

Total bonds

PREFERRED STOCK
Book Value
3
1,100
305
500

1 , 333
500

Geysers Developm ent co., .7'1a
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemica l, 4-1/8"
()wens- Illinois Glass Company, 4"
Reynold s Metals Co., 4-1/2%
Total preferre d stock

$

1,140
106,430
35, 141
57,953

$

200 .664

650
1,876
4 , 200
1, 614
2,000
1,900
3 , 800
4,080
2 , 400
4,000
2,000
4,478
2, 900
3, 728
1,820
1,000
3,087
880
2, 115
1,013
4,200 ,
840
5,800
3,800
900
1,400
1 , 105
2,583
1, 514
1,632
1,530
1,900
l,400
46 7

Allied Chemica l Corpora tion
AlWl\inum Company of America
Amer ica n Can Company
American Cyanami d Company
America n Telepho ne and Telegrap h Company
Ass oci at es Inv estment Company
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Bank of Californ i a , N.A.
Bendix Co rporatio n
C.I.T. F ina ncial Corp.
Centra l Illinoi s Light Co.
Champio n Papers, Inc.
Cincinn ati Gas & Electric co.
Cleve l and Electric Illumin ating Company
Columbi a Gas System, Inc.
Commer cial Credit Co .
Consoli dated Edison Company of .New York,
Inc.
Consoli dated Natural Gas Company
Contine ntal Can Company , Inc.
Crocker-Citi~ens Nationa l Bank
Crown Zellerb ach Corpora tion
Crum and Forster
Dow Chemica l Company
Duquesn e Light Company
Eaktman ~odak Co.
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Fireman ' s Pund Insuranc e Company
First Nationa l Bank of Hawaii
First Nationa l City Bank of New York
General Electric Company
General Public Utilitie s Corp.
Goodyea r Tire and Rubber Co.
Gulf Oil Corpora tion
Hartford Fire Insuranc e Co.
Hercule s Powder Company
Honeywe ll Incorpo rated
Hy-Draf t Incorpo rated
Fontard

$

68,088
38,351
135, Bll
18,814
130,362
132 , 42 0
90,647
129, 221
119 , 404
148,883
90,428
8 0,384
89,204
66, 721
117,065
122 , 328
138 ,15 2
139,238
55,024
68,201
4 6,134
72, 606
64, 595
116, 672
42,91 9
138 ,951
108, 726
54,906
80,890
91, 723
42,798
69,641
60,109
97,662
78 , 479
103, 727
1,401
3, 250, 705

322

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GRA.ND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
SCHEDULE 2
Page 5

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIP ORN IA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1965

COMMON STOCK (Continued)

1,600
1,000
3,438
2,642
1,100
1,000
6,600
1,700
1,300
1,800
1,317
1,500
l. 600
1,400
2,800
1,877
2,200
1,800
3,700
1,600
2,400
2,200
2, 000
1,600
4,015
1,400
2, 600
2,395
1,574
1,000
300

Ingersoll-Rand Co .
Insurance Company of North America
Interstate Power Co.
Irving Trust Company of New York
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corp.
Kimberly-Clark Corp.
Laclede Gas Company
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Lone Sta r Gas Company
P. Lorillard Company
Marathon Oil Co.
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co.
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
National Lead Co.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Northern States Power of Minnesota
Ohio Edison Company
Olin Mathieson Chemica l Corp.
Parke, Dav is & Co.
J. C. Penney Co.
Pennsylvania Power and Light Company
Philadelphia Electric Company_
Phillips Petroleum Company
Proctor and Gamble Company
Publ ic Service Company of Color~do
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Schering Corp.
Seattle F irst National Bank
Security First National Bank
Sherwin-Wil liams Co.
Singer Co.
Forward

SCHEDULE ~
Page 6

COMMON STOCK (Continued)
Book value

Forward

323

Book Value

$ 3,250,705
68,750
53,205
93,048
113. 93J
40,611
53, 394
175, 343
143, 760
29,678
83,016
53,270
95,652
169,229
127,623
68,923
22 ,998
50,859
74,840
127,080
77,602
85,644
67,816
113,267
124,761
125,274
59,033
131,025
153,644
51,593
65,060
22, 116
5,972,752

Forward
1, 200
l ,307
2,600
2,000
4
2, 286
1,900
5 , 318
l ,531
300
3,066
2,022
2,932
l,800
5,200
900
2,025
4,000
2,075
3 ,94 0
4,700
500

Smith Kline and French Labs
Socony Mobil Oil Company, I nc .
Southern California Edison Company
Sou thern Natural Gas Company
Southern Realty Company
Standard Oil Company (California)
S tandard Oi l Company (New Jersey)
Tennessee Gas Transmission Company
Texaco, Inc.
Texas Utilities company
Title Insurance & Trust Company
Transamerica Corporation
Union Bank, Los Angeles
Union Carbide Corp.
Union El ectric Company
United States Gypsum Company
Virginia Electric and Power Company
Warner-Lambert Pharma c euticals
Wells Fargo Bank
Western Bancorporation
F. w. Woo lworth Co.
Ze nith Radio Corporation
Five l ots of stock of undetermined v alue
ceceived as gifts, c arried at a nominal
value
Total common stock
Total investments, Exhibit G

$ 5, 972 , 752
77,10 5
63,451
93,275
47 , 225
11
99,362
155 ,108
125,359
59,697
16, 972
38,97 0
51 , 800
175 ,600
1 15 , 788
158 , 789
94,495
102,318
109,036
91, 810
145 ,639
113,271
41 ,192

7,949,027
$15,420 , 184

PROCEED INGS OF THE

324

325

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA
SCHEDULE 3
Page l

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORNIA

S CHEDULE 3
Page 2

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
Fo r t he years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

COVINA RESERVE

This r eserve is c redited with amounts to be used for the
general purposes of t he De coto and Covina Homes.

This reserve is credited with amoun ts t o be used for the
benef i t of the Cov ina Home • .

Balance, beginning of year
Add, credits to Reserve:
Bequests a llocat ed to Reserve
by Trus tee s
Net i ncome fr om real estate received
by bequests, al l ocated to Reserve
by Trustee s
T rans fer fr om Major Projects Reserve

1965

l2M

$ 273 ,199

$491, 586

11, 798

26 ,3 03

l, 109

l,3 50
3,6 35

2, 500

45 0

1 5, 4 07

3 1, 738

c ontr ibutions

Less, charges to Reserve:
Addit ion s to San Francisco o ffice ,
Sched u l e 5
Addition s to Decoto Home, Schedule 5
Tr ansf er to Gener al Fund to re i mburse
for Homes' expense - replacem ents of
San Francisco office equipmen t

14 ,616

125

1 00 ,000

25 0, 000

959

Bal ance , beginning of year
Add , credi ts to Reserve:
Beque sts allocated to Reserve
by Tr ustee s
Net income f rom r ea l esta te received
by bequests, al l ocate d to Reserv e
by Trustees

2:.0. 1 2:.

Ne t decrease in Reserve during year

100,168

218. 387

Balance. end of year, Exhibit E

$173,031

$2 7 3 , 199

Le ss, charges to Reser ve:
Transfers to General Fund to reimburse
fo r operating expe nse s of Covina Home:
Farm and ground s expense
Hospital and medical e xpen se

$ 1 ,15 5, 590

216,857

132,678

6, 667

8. 087

4 ,744

l, 008

228 ,2 68

141, 773

28 ,628

35,100

19 ,2 1 0

19,416

Special benefi ts to re sident s

16 ,31 7

· 8 , 1 00

Camp expe nse

16 ,186
of equipmen t

· Capit al a ddit i o ns t o Covina Home
Leas ehold i mpr ovemen t9 to Bi g Bear
camp, Schedule 5

Net increase in Reserve durinq y ear
Bala nce , end of year, Exhibit E
The accompan ying notes are an integral
part of t h e f i nancial sta t ements.

1964

$1.183, 766

Contribu tions

Replac~ments

llS.570>

1965

3,247

14 , 21 6

83. 588

76,832
5,9 5 7

45 ,358

.30,808

128,946

ll3,597

99. 322

28,176

$1,283,08 8

$ 1,183,766

Th e accompan yinq notes are an integral
part of the financial statemen ts.

327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA
PROCEE DINGS OP THE.

326

·SCHEDULE 3
Page 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

SCHEDULE 3
Page 4

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

UNl>.PPROPRIATED RESERVE
DECOTO RESERVE
by residen ts
This reserve is credite d with amounts assigne d
proceed s from pension s ,
of the Decato Home on admissi on and include s
The reserve is used
life insuran c e policie s, and sale of real estate.
Home.
Decato
the
of
ts
residen
e
th
of
benefit
the
for

for the
This r eserve is credite d with amounts to be used
benefit of the Decato Home.

Balance . beginni n g of year
Add, credits to Reserve :
Beques ts allocat ed to Reserve
by Trustee s
Net income fr om real estate receive d
by bequest s. allocat ed to Reserv e
by Trustee s
c. N. Flint Trust Fund income,
Exhibit L
George M. and Flore nce G . Perine
Endowm ent Fund income, Exhibit J
Reside nts' Accoun ts income, Exhibit N
contrib ut ions

Less, charges to Reserve :
Transfe rs to Genera l Fund to reimbur se
for operati ng expense s of Decato Home:
Special benefi ts to residen ts
Gr and Lodge trips to Decoto du ring
annual com!llu nication s
Replace ment s of equipme nt

!2.§.i

1964

$404. 616

$647,12 0
Balance , beginni ng of year

48,016

185. 223

3,874

3,888

11.940
641

635

2 . 025

10 , 181

8. 290

842

74,786

213, 286

6,805

ll, 185

2,589

3,705

2,160

l, 159

11. 554

16 ,049
439 ,741

Capita l additio ns to Decato Home

Net increas e (decrea se) in Reserve
during year
Balance , e nd of year. Exhibit E

12,517

$1,0C3 ,385

130, 054

166,610

258,936

263,536

10,854

14 .612

Add, credits to Reserve :
Assets assigne d by re sidents of the
Decato Home on admi s s ion , includi ng
proceed s from sale of roal estate.
and fr om life insuran ce polic i es
Pension s assigne d by residen ts of the
Decato Home
Accoun ts of decease d residen ts
Income from real es tate assigne d by
residen ts on admissi on
Transfe r from Funera l Re serv e

215

Of an amount equiva lent to assigne d
pension s receive d
Addit ions to Decato Home, Schedu le 5

455,790

63,232

(242 1 504)

Net increas e (de cr ease) in Reserve
during year

$467,84 8

$404,61 6

Balance , end of year, Exhibit E

390
93, 000

Less, charges to Res erve :
Transfe rs to Genera l Fund:
To reimbur se for o pera ting expense s
of Decato Home:
Monthly grants to residen ts
Funeral expense
Real estate a nd insuran ce expense
Replace ments of equi pment

11, 554

The accomp anying notes are an integra l
part of the financi al stateme nts.

~l.004,536

$

4 00, 059

538,148

5 5,535
8 ,901
2,537
3,007

53,452
l,535
6,082

69 ,980

61,069

258,936

263.536

211 , 203

2 12,392

5 40,119

536,997

1140, 060)

1,151

864,476

$1,004, 536

The accomp anying notes are an integra l
part of t he financi al stateme nts.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

328

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3
Page S

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

ENTERTAINMENT RESERVES
These reserves are credited with contributi ons to be used
for the entertainm ent of the residents of the Homes.
COVINA ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

contributi ons

Less, transfer to General Fund to reimburse
for entertainm ent expense of Covina Home
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

l96S

.ill!

$2,381

$2,SOO

6, 114

S,S37

8,49S

9,037

5,392

5,656

$1...1.Q.l

$~

DECOTO ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

Balance, beginning of year
Contributi ons

Less, transfer to General Fund to reimburse
for entertainm ent expense of Decoto Home
Balance, end of year, Exhibit E

196S

1964

$4,229

$2,SOO

3,414

4,276

7,643

6,776

l,844

2 1 S47

$~

$~

l 9 6 4

Increase
(Decrease)

403 , 728 $ 408,747
496,926
447,651
31,587
32,208
133,949
116, 896
7 5,623
74,801
1 65,410
162,709
1,307,223 1,243,012

$(5,019 )
49, 275
(621)
17, 053
822
_h2Q1
64, 211

1 9 6 5

Decoto Home operating expense:
Residents ' maintenanc e
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transporta tion
Allowances , etc. to residents
Admi nistrative

$

Cov ina Home operating expense:
Residents' mai ntenance
Hospital and medical
Fann and grounds
Plant and transporta tion
Camp operating expense
Allowances , etc. to res i dents
Administr ative
Outside re l ief of Masonic Homes
Administr ative and general expense:
Grand Lodge - secr etarial and
othe r services
Reimbursement of Endowment Fund
expenses (includes re i mbursements to Grand Lodge of $14,172
and $15 , 119, respective ly)
Office salaries
Field investigat i ons
I nvestment ~ou nsel fee
Off~c~ supplies and printing
Auditing services
Pension and other payroll
costs
Grand Lodge trip to Decoto
Truste es' expenses
Securities safekeepin g
Other
Total, Exhib it B

The accompany ing notes are an integral
part of the financial statements .

SCHEDULE 4

DETAILS OF EXPENSE
F or the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964
(Note 7)

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

Balance, beginning of year

329

162,460
19,210
28,628
69,687
16, 185
21, 710
64,799
382,6 79

141, 403
19,416
34' 780
72' 626
1 4,20 5
13,756
57 967
354,153

21,057
(2 0 6)
(6,152)
(2 t 939)
1,980
7,954
~
28,526

12 ,904

16, 6 60

~)

24, 000

24,000

16,672
13, 866
13.898
6,743
5,191
4,250

15 , 7 58
8, 104
13,449
6, 300
3,081
4,250

3,633
2,589
1 , 809
l, 200
6 517
1 00,368

5,822
3,705
l, 0 28
1,200
4,506
91,20 3

$1.803,174 $1 .7 05,028

The accompany ing notes are an integral
part of the financia l statements .

914
5,7 6 2
449
443
2, 110
(2, 189)

(l, 116 )
781

330

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE
SCHEDULE 5

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

W\SONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN IA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
J une 30, 196 5

DETAIL OF PROPERTY ADDITIONS
F or the year ended June 30, 1965

Note 1.
Addition s to properti e sf ofA~:~~i~n~ome:
Charg ed to Reserve or
a nd Replacement s:
b
construc tion of Char l es Al er t Adams Hall
Charged to Unappro priated Reserve:
c onstruct io n o f Char les Albert
Adams Hall
Kitchen e quipment
Televisio n s ets
Improvem ~nts to water sys tem

331

The financi ~l sta tement s a re s t ated o n a modified
bas i s o f accountin g. Tran sact ions genera l ly are recorde d at cash
the
t ime o f the receipt or payment of cash . Current operating e
xpense
bills unpaid were of nominal amo unt.

$100,000

$204,2 8 8
1, 02 7
811
5,077

Charged to c . N. F lint Trust F und:
Furniture and equipme nt fo r Char les Albert
Adams Hall

Note 2.

211,203

77,?00 $388,903

Additi ons to San F r ancisco office equ i~ment:
Charged to Reserve for Addition s an
Rep lacement s:
.
d
Bookkee p ing machine and relate
e qu ipment
Other e qu ipme nt
Tot al addition s, Exhibit D

4 5, 358

14,616
$44!1, !177

Notes Re ceiva ble:

Notes receiva ble arise from the sale o f r e al estate ass igned
to Maso nic Homes of Californ ia by r esidents of t he Home at
from r eal esta t e received as gifts or b equests by the Homes Decato a nd
o r the
Perma nent Endowment Fund .
Note 4.

13,932
684

Investmen ts :

I nvestment s in securitie s pu rchased are sta ted a t cos t .
Securitie s received by gift o r bequest or by assignme nt by residen
ts
of t he Home at Decoto a re stated at estimated marke t va lue a
t the
time t he secu r it ie s are r ece ived o r at the n omi nal v alue of $
1 if the
ma r ke t value i s unknown .
In a few inst ances, the carrying v alue of
unli sted s tock s acquired by gi ft o r beques t has been stated
at t h e
pe r share va lue of t h e underlyin g asse t s of the company which
is
believed t o be le ss than the ma rke t value .
No te 3.

Additio ns t o propertie s o f Covina Home :
Charged to Covina Reserve:
B ig Be a r camp leas ehold i mpr ovemen t s

Bas i s of Account ing:

Other Assets :

Other assets consis t of l if e in s u ran c e polic ies and rea l
e st a t e assigned t o Masonic Homes o f Californ ia by r es ide nts
of the
Home a t Decoto or rec e ived as gi fts or bequests by the Permanen
t
Endowment Fund , •the F lorence Kather ine Burt Trust Fund, and
Th e
Edmund Cl ement Atki nson Fund . The life insurance policies and
parcels
of r eal estate are each recorde d a t the nomina l value of $1
for
accounta bi li ty . Payment by Ma sonic Homes of l o an s previous ly
obtained
b y t he assignors on life insurance policies or on r eal estate
are
added to the nominal v alue .
Note 5.

Land, Buildings , and Equ ipment:

Land , b uildings , and equipmen t are re corded a t the coat
wh en orig inally pu r chased a nd no de preci ation of buildings and
equipme nt has been provi ded f o r in the accounts. Re placemen
o r iginal items o f equipmen t a re charged to operat i ng expen sests o f
.
The accomp any ing notes are a n integ ral
part of the financia l statemen ts.

PROCEE DINGS OF THl!

332

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

NOTES TO FINANC IAL STATEMENTS, Continu ed

Note 6.

MEM ORIA L TEMPLE AUDI T
LYBRAN D. Ross BRos.c.. MONTGO MERY

Reserve s for Specia l Purpos es:

C £A'T'lfr'IEO P U BLIC ACCOUNT ANTS

iouse
vh~rh
The Trustee s of Masonic Homes have establi)' shedw ic ar
5 to
s h d le 3 pages l through
used
are
lly
genera
spec~al re~ervesb (see t~ ea~d other amounts which
s othe~ than direct
credited.gift~ , eque~ Trustee s for purpose
reserve s are
of tT~e assets r e present ed
tion es.
direc
d by these
the .ng
at
expens
operati
•
Pun
General
the
of
assets
include d in the

No~

7.

Accoun t ing Change s:

es of th~ ~~~:snot
Prior to this fiscal year certai~ expens
s, an
l Purpose
t 0 Reserve s Bfor. Specia
l
·
year ended
the
i g with
direct Y
were charged
eg1nn n
xpenses of the Homes.

h
f the Homes are shown as such, even
s own as e
transfe r s directl y
Jun e 30, 1965 , all expense s ~eimbursed by Reserve certain expense s
of
though certain expens eslare the c lassifi cation
in this report, changes have been
to the Genera l Fund. A so, . t
ria e t s to make 1964 compar.able with the
. approp
• . wi:ere
changed
was
accoun
of
made in classif ication
curren t year.

333

ONE'

BUS H

STRC~T

SAN F'RAHC I SCO 4
Y U•o "" 1·9.Jl3

H111 4""9CW 1'o1Cwo-;.o
OU, .!Ol 'tMC ._,to . ,......r ..

To the Trustee s of
Califor nia Masonic Memori al Temple,
1111 Califor nia Street,
San Francis co, Califor nia 941 08.
lities , and
We have examine d the stateme nt of assets, liabi
nia
Califor
a
TEMPLE,
L
MEMORIA
MJ\SONIC
NIA
CALIFOR
fund balance Of
stateme nt
related
the
65.and
19
,
30
June
of
as
tion,
corpora
nonpro fit
year then ended.
of income re ceived and expense s disburs ed for the
lly accepte d auditgenera
with
Our examin ati on was made in accorda nce
of the accoun ting
tests
h
suc
ncluded
i
ing standar ds, and accordi ngly
red necessa ry
conside
we
as
res
procedu
g
auditin
other
records and such
reporte d upon the
in the circum stances . We previou sly examine d and
1964.
30,
June
ended
r
financi al stateme nts for the yea
fairly
In our opinion , the accompa nying stateme nts present
Masonic
nia
Califor
of
balance
fund
and
,
ies
t
the assets, liabili
primar ily from
Memori al Temple, at June 30, 1965 and 1964, arising
expense s disburs ed
and
d
receive
income
the
and
tions,
transac
cash
basis.
by it for the years then ended, on a consist ent
We attach the followi ng:
Exhibit A

Schedu le 1

Stateme nt o f assets, liabili ties,
and fund balance
Stateme nt of income receive d and
expense s disburs ed
Summary o f contrib utions receive d

One page

Notes to financi al stateme nts.

Exhibit B

July 29, 1965

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

334

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

E'XHIBIT A

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL. TEMPLE

335

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

EXHIBIT B
STATEMENT OF INCOME RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIE S, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1965 and 1964
A S S ET S:

ill.!

~
94, 208

$

Ca•h
Memorial Temple proper ty (at c ost ):
Land
Building and building equipment
Furnishing s
Total assets

116,616

$

734 , 304
5,211,539
215,933
6,161,776

734,304
5 , 210. 296
213,760
6,158,360

$6,255,984

$6,274,976

LIABILITIE S AND FUND BALANCE :
Liabilitie a:
No t es payable t o banks (Note 2}
Deposi ts for renta l of . space by public
contributi on s due pension trust
Accrue d payro ll taxes and expense
Reserve f o r renewals and replaceme nts
(Note 3)
Total liabilitie s
Fund balance:
contributi ons:
.
Received prior to beginning of year
Received during y ear , Schedule l
Total contributi ons to
end of year
Net expense o f Temple building:
Ne t expense to beginning of year
Net expense for year, Exhibit B
Ne t expense to end of year
Fund balan ce
Total liabilitie s and
fund balance

$

1,472

779 79 0
8,900
734
158

8 , 157
450, 169

6,528
796,110

437. 790
2,75 0

$

Building income :
Rent and o ther charges
to public
Rent of garage
Rent of space to Gra nd Lodge
Operating expenses:
Buildi ng e xpense:
Sal aries and payroll expense
Utilities and servic es
Maintenanc e
Exter i or waterproof painting
I nsuran ce
Real property taxes

1

6. 008. 304
344,169

5,657,502
350, 802

6,352,473

6. 008. 304

529 ,438
17 , 220
546,658
5 ,805 , 815

510,883
18,555
529,438
5 , 478 , 866

$6,255,984

$6,274,976

General and admi nistrative :
Legal and auditing
Stationery and postage
Pereonal proper t y taxes
Miscellaneo us
Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Other expense 1 net:
Interest on notes payable
Addition to r.es e rve for renewals
and replacemen ts (Note 3)
Leas, interest received o n
bank deposita

Net expense for yeai::

The accompanyi ng notes are an integral
part of the financial •tatements .

Increase
(Decrease)

1965

1964

$ 74,975
69,130
18,000
162,105

$ 95, 704
67,231
18,000
180. 935

$(20,729)
l,899

46, 774
27,916
2,674

41,092
30, 797

5,682
(2,881)
(2 , 214)
(16 , 232)
6 , 314
4,606
[4,725)

8,092
63' 706
149, 162

4 , 888
16,232
l, 778
59,100
153 , 887

'18. 830)

999
l,270
2 ,098·
2,039
6,406
155,568
6, 537

162,775
18,160

(3,497)
( 19)
(80)
1,114
[2,482)
p,207)
( ll 623)

26, 190

39,112

(12,922)

l,629
27,819

1,852
40,964

(223)
(13,145)

4,062
23,757

4,249
36, 715

(187)
(12,958)

$ 17,220

$ 18 1 555

$ (1,335)

4,496
l , 289
2,178
925
0,000

The accompanyi ng notes are an integral
part of the financial •tatementa .

1

336

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

PROCE EDING S OP THE

CJ\LIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFO~IA

scr..EDU'....E 1

Note 1 .

Total contri bution s receiv ed
during year

The f ina n cial statem ents d o not provid e for
deprec iation
of buildi ng, equipm ent, or furnis hings .

$240,9 95

$240,9 79

15,012

13,932

Note 2.

256. 007

254,91 1

Notes payab le to banks are secure
on the Temp le real prope rty. The notes are d by a first deed of trust
instal llnent s aggregating $120,0 00, cont i nu payab le in minimum annua l
ing ann ually until Oc tober 4 .
1965, on which date all sums of princi
a nd inter es t then unpa i d
shall be due a nd payab le. During the pal
ended June 30, 1965, total
payme nts of $342, 000 we re ma de on theseyear
n otes. The notes bear inte rest
at the rate of 4 percen t per annum, payab
le
semia nnuall y April l and
Octob er l of each year.

42 . 138

43,065

298,14 5

297 , 976

712

612

297 , 433

297,36 4

46 , 736

53,438

$)44, 169

$350,8 02

Less, refund s and adjust ments

contri bution s from indivi duals (see note)

Basis o f Accou nting:

The financ ial statem ent s a r e stated on the
cash basis of
accou nti ng. Trans action s gener ally
record ed at the time of the
receip t or payme nt of c ash. Cu rrent are
opera ting expens e bills unpaid
were of nomin al a mount.

Grand Lodge , F. & A. M.:

contri bution s of initia tes of fiscal '
years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964,
respec tively , at $9.00 each

MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 3 0, 1965

SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1965 and
1964

Annua l return s - 1964 and 1963,
respec tively :
Maste r Mason s on June 30, 1964 a~d 1963,
respec tively , at $1.00 per capita
Contr ibutio ns of initia tes of fiscal
years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963 ,
respec tively , at $9.00 each

337

5
Pledge s for contri bution s unp~id ai J$~~ ~go
~~~
and 1964 amoun ted to approx imate y
includ
ed
$28,00 0 , respec tively . Pledg e9.are no
in the financ ial statem ents until collec ted.

t

Notes Payab le to Banks:

The balances of the notes at J une 30, 1965
amoun ted to

$437,7 90, as follow s:

Bank of Americ a N.T. & S.A.
The Bank of Califo rnia, N.A.
Crocke r-Citi zens Nation al Bank
Wells Fargo Bank

$ 72, 965
72, 965
145,93 0
145,93 0
$437. 790

Note 3.

Reserv e for Renew als and Replac ements :

I n 1960, the Truste es a uthor
the estab lishme nt of a
reserv e f or renew als a nd replac ements ized
and annua l addi tions theret o
of a s um equal to one perce nt of the ,annua
l gross i ncome of the
Templ e. The additi on for the year ended June
30, 1965 amoun ted to
$1,629 . Thi s reserv e has not been funded
.

The accompanying.note~ are an integr al
part of the fina ncial statem ents.

338

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1964-1965
July L 1964 lo June 30. 1965
NAMES OF MEN RESIDENTS-AVERA GE AGE 82.80 YEARS
•Indicates admission during current year
tindicates couples
Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Ahlborn, George C .........Oct. 10, '61 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......83
Allen William J .t* ......June 29, '65 Mission ................169 San Francisco...... 92
Ande~son, Alfred A.• ....Oct. 9, '64 Hollywood .......... 355 Hollywood ............ 79
Anderson, J. Woodson..Apr. 27, '64 Granad a ..............608 Alhambra ............76
B acon, Herbert W .........Mar. 23, :i~ Russian River.. .. 181 Windsor ................ 85
Mt. Olive ............ 506 Los Angeles ........80
Bacon Walter B .............Jan. 15,
Barne~. Wm. H ........... ...July 2, '.~~ Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................82
Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ...... 75
Bean, Verd J ames .......... Apr. 5, ,
B eer Leslie ...................... Dec. 19, 60 Woodstock ......... .491 Alameda ....... .......64
Bentiey Les L.t • .......... Nov. 19, '64 Sange r ·-··--·-·-··----6I3 Sanger .................. 74
B laess Ernest M ...........Sept. 20, '63 Dimond .............. 603 Oakland ................ 84
Brasington, J am es• ........Dec. I5, '64 Ramona ............. .457 Monterey P ark .... 87
Bremser Arthur.. ..... .....July 9, '60 East Gate ............ 290 Los Angeles .......... 84
Broadw~ll, Charles........ Feb. I2, '64 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ... ....... 92
Brown Frede rick A. ...... Oct. 17, '57 Eucaly ptus ........ 243 Hayward .............. 86
Buerm~n , W m. J ............. July 13, ' 62 San Diego ............ 35 San Diego ............ 81
B urt Byron H .................Dec. 6, '56 Molino ................150 Tehama ...... .......... 80
Butler , Kenneth L .• ......Dec. 3I, '64 Park ·········-···-··· .. 449 San Francisco ...... 78
Campion, Richard L.* ..June 24, '65 So. San Fran ....... 212 San Francisco ...... ll 1
Carlson Carl OscarL .... Feb. 17, '61 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ...... 75
Carroll' Gustav M ........May 28, '63 Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco ..... . 84
Casey Ne wman H .........Mar. 26, '55 Santa Barbara.... 192 Santa Barbara ...... 88
Comb; J er ome+ .. ......... S ept. 2, '62 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne .......... 84
Condo.r'i, Wilbert S ........ .J an. 11, '42 Apollo ··-···---·--···-396 Alameda .............. 89
Covell William A. . ...... Nov. 12, '60 Consuelo ............ 325 E scondido ............ 86
Covington, J ames..........Aug. 30, '57 South Gate ........320 L os Angeles ..........82
Creider Roy B .................Oct. 25, '63 San Diequito ...... 775 Ca rdiff .................. 84
Crozier ; Alfred ..............June 26, '60 Semper Virens 552 Eureka ..................82
Crystal, David T ............Mar. 11, '64 AmitySe al Rock ........370 San Francisco ......78
Deardorff, Charles D ..... Dec. 7, '59 Martinez -··-----···· 41 Martinez ..............83
Diven, Vernon L .............Dec. I 8, '63 Yount ------------------ 12 Napa ···-·····-···-···--···78
Domenigorri,
Valentine• .................. Nov. 9, '64 San J acinto ........338 S an Jacin to .......... 85
Dotson Garner M ......... Sept. 10, ' 63 Sunr ise ................522 Monterey Park 89
Driver,' John H ............... Nov. 10, '61 Belmont Shore 716 L ong Beach .......... 86
Driver Joseph H.* ........June 29, '65 Mt. Moriah --···--- 44 S a n Francisco ......80
DuBoi~, Andrew B. t .... Apr. 30, '58 Morning Star ____ 68 Stockton ................ 82
Duebel Ch arles .............. Apr. 5, '58 Occide ntal -··--··-·· 22 San Francisco ...... 86
Dunn, John M.t ..............F eb . 9, '62 H. S . Orme ......... .458 L os Angeles .......... 73
Dye Melvin ............ ........Dec. I2, '60 Visalia ................ 128 Visalia ....................65
Dza~oogian, Marsob ...... May 19, '60 Vallejo ................487 Vallejo .................. 68
Eckst ein, Joseph G .........F eb. 21, '62 Argonaut ............461 S an Francisco ...... 80
Evans, Alfred R .............June 6, '61 Howa rd .............. 37 Yreka .................... 80
Farley, Everett• .............. May 20, '65 Petaluma ............ 180 Petaluma .............. 75
Ferraris, Natale • ............ Mar. 3, '65 Speranza
Italiana ____________ 219 San Francisco ····--76
Finch, Walter E ...__________ May 23, '62 Cahuenga -·-·-···-·513 Hollywood ............ 79
Fisher, William J ...........Mar. I7, '64 AmitySeal Rock ......370 San Francisco ......84
Frare, Giacomo______ .. ______Apr. 1, '5I Speranza
Italiana ............2I9 San Francisco ......84

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

339

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Fre nch, John S ............... Feb. 4, '61 S.F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ...... 82
F rost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, ;45 Utopia .................. 537 Los Angeles..........75
Fullalove, Edward J. Mar. 6 64 Park ................... .449 San Francisco ......81
Gammon, Rodger .......... Sept 9; '61 Van Nuys ........... .450 Van N uys .............. 76
Garner, Charles F .........June 5, '64 La Habra ............659 La Habra .............. 91
Garve, Kurt J.• ..............June 14, '65 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 71
Gerhart, William E. ......Feb. 10, '6 1 Pentalpha .......... 202 Los Angeles ........ 91
Godfrey, Henry S ...........July 25, '54 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ..............94
Gray, Arthur.................. May 12, '60 Las Palmas .. ...... 366 Fresno .................... 79
Green, Robert F ............. May 7, '58 Curtis .................. 140 Cloverdale ........... .84
Hagemann, Hen ry F. t ..Feb. 24, '61 Herm ann ............ 127 San F rancisco ...... 81
H aley, Michael C ........... Nov. 4, '61 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne ............ 80
Halford, George W. t ....Apr. 2, '63 Visalia ................ 128 Visa lia .................. 82
Hammond, Cuyler J .......Jan. 27, '64 Golden S ta te ...... 358 L os Angeles ........ 78
Hascall, Andrew t .......... Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................ 362 Campbell .............. 84
Hem m ing, Frank L.• ....Oct. I2, '64 Southland ... ....... 618 Los Angeles .......... 85
Hendricks, George G ... Sept. 26, '59 All States ............ 593 Long Beach .......... 83
H ermans, Howard S .....Oct. 31, '60 Corona ................324 Pasadena .............. 75
H ooper , Freder ick• ........ Mar. 14, '65 La Jolla .............. 518 L a Jolla ................ 85
Hopper , William ............Dec. 11, '57 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles .......... 91
Howard , Otto.................. July 6, '62 California .... ...... 1 San Francisco ...... 80
Hyde, Ross E. t ................Feb. 8, '62 E agle Rock ........ 422 L os Angeles .......... 79
J ack , Charles P ............... Jan. 9, '38 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco ...... 86
Jack son, Elwell R ......... June 7, '62 Henry Knox ......662 L os Angeles ....... ... 78
Jensen, James ......... ....... July 27, '60 Balder ............... .393 San Fra ncisco ...... 93
J ohnson , Gustave E ..... Aug. 28, '56 Balde r .............. .. 393 S an Francisco ..... .87
Kempf, William A. ........ Dec . 1, '61 Doric .................... 216 San Francisco ...... 67
Klossn er , John W .. ......... N ov. 8, '62 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ............ 91
L angstaff, Edwa:·d• ......Feb. 22, '65 W. G. Harding....579 No. Sacramento .... 73
Lepetich, Steve M .........July 22, '63 Maricopa ........... .434 Maricopa .............. 84
Lincoln, Milton R. ..........Dec. 28, '62 Golden Gat:: ........ 30 San Francisco ...... 77
Long, John D ... ................July 4, '63 Sojourner ............ 607 Duarte ..................81
Luethge, John C ........... Sept. 16, '60 P rovident .... ....... .609 Sacramento ..... ..... 80
McConnell, Riley............ May 14, '63 High land P ark ..382 L os Angeles ....... ... 73
McGraw, John H ...........J un e 27, '58 South Gate: ........320 Los Angeles .......... 85
Martin, Ernest.. .. :...........Jan. 11, ' 62 Live Oak ........
61 Oakland ................ 85
Martinsen, Thomas A ... Nov. 19, '57 Teh achapi ..........313 Tehach api ............ 75
Mason, Fred R. .......... .... Feb. 22, '62 West Ga te .......... :l35 Los Ange les .......... 81
Miles, Gerald B ......... ...... May 27, '6 4 Exeter ........... ....... 424 Exeter ................ . .. 82
Milkop, Martin..............June 24, '61 Presidi o .............. 354 San Francisco ...... 88
Miller, Frank. .................Feb. 8, '62 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ............ 83
Moore, Herbert W .........July 30, '62 Live Oa k ............ 61 Oakla nd ................88
Morris, Harry E ............. Oct. 31, '63 King Solomon 'sSeaport ............ 260 San Francisco ......79
Newark, Gray E .• .......... Oct. 9, '64 L as Palma:; ....... 366 Fresno .................... 86
Niebling, William F .....Aug. 27, '58 Capital City ........ 499 Sacramento ........ .. 87
Oakley, Charles W ........ .Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ..............129 Wheatland ............ 88
Off, John W .....................Nov. 5, '62 So. Californi a ...... 278 L os Angeles .......... 61
Ollson, L ester E .... ......... Aug. 24, '59 Charter Thck ... .410 B erkeley ... ........... 78
Pawloski, Charles• t ......F eb. 16, '65 Glassel Park ......605 Los Angeles .......... 85
Payne, John S ................. Aug. 3, '6 1 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........90
P eale, Charles W ...........Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ........451 Montebello .......... 82
Rader , Edward .............. Aug. 13, '62 Balder ........... ... .393 S an Francisco ...... 81
Randall, Finelle K. ........ May 17, '60 Sojourner .......... 607 Monrovia ... ........... 92
Richardson, William T. July 29, '50 Santa Maria ...... 580 Ramona ................ 72
R idley, Alvin ....... ...........Feb. 1, '62 E ast Bay ............. .489 Berkeley .............. 95
Roberts, Owen I.t..........Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ...................... 81
Roche, George W ...........Jan. 18, '57 So. Pasade n a ....367 South Pasadena .. 90
R osenzweig, Sam............J an. 6, '60 Argonaut ........... .46I San Francisco ...... 69
Rossi, Valentino .............. May 13, '59 Roosevelt ............ 500 San Francisco ...... 96
Rumfelt, Clarence P .....Jan. 19, '59 Live Oak ..............61 Oakland ................ 89

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
88
......
Francisco
San
169
..
...
...........
Mission
'61
24,
Mar.
...........
G
John
Schroder,
Scott, John K .............. ...May 9, '63 Culver City ....... .467 Culver City .......... 83
S crivner, Chester• ........Mar. 19, '65 Van Nuys ............450 Van Nuys .............. 87
Short, Benjamin A. ......Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside .......... 577 Los Angeles ..........81
Souter, John H ............... Aug. 11, '61 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................ 85
Specht, Frank M .............May 9, '60 Crocker .............. 454 Colma .................... 78
Steigelman,
Warren H.t ..................Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower .. ..........82
Stewart, Charles............ Apr. 5, '61 San Juan ............ 732 Fair Oaks ..............84
Stewart, James O ...........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........94
Stine, William A .............Jan. 24, '63 Libertas ............. .466 Bakersfield ..........83
Stites, Joseph J .............Sept. 17, '63 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................86
Street, Alvin C ...............Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ............ 272 Pasadena ..............92
Sullivan, James S ...........Oct. 2, '63 Fremont ..............497 Oakland ..... ........... 77
Suthe rland,
William M ...................Mar. 10, '58 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach .... 88
Swans on, George ..........Mar. 15, '62 Needles ................326 Needles ................. .84
Taforo, Charlest ............ Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak ... ........ 61 Oakland ................ 78
Taylor, Myron• .............. Dec. 28, '64 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles .......... 69
Townson, James T.t ..... .Feb. 14, '62 Stanislaus .......... 206 Modesto ................90
Wallis, Abraham G ....... Nov. 2, '47 Midway ............. .426 Taft ........................ 81
Warden, Robert A .........June 1, '56 Marin ............... ... 191 San Rafael ............ 86
Waterman, Alfred S. Feb. 28, '55 Russian River .... 181 Windsor ................ 87
We rry, John E . • ............June 25, '65 King Solomon'sSeaport .... ........260 San Francisco ...... 83
Weinberg, Harry t .......... Apr. 9, '62 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ...... 79
White, Harry C ...............Dec. 4, '54 San Diego ............561 San Diego ............ 84
Whittard, Ernest A .......Apr. 25, '61 Bear Mountain 76 Angels Camp ......93
Wilder, William R. t ......Dec. 5, '58 Friendship .......... 210 San Jos e ................ 82
Wilson, Sidney G ...........Jan. 6, '62 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .............. 78
Wilson, Thomas R. ........Aug. 24, '59 Sequoia .............. 349 Oakland ............. ... 81
York, Ward A. .. ..............Feb. 28, '63 Gardena ..............372 Gardena ............. ... 94

Admitted
Name
No.
Lodge
Age
T own
Newark, Gray E ........ .....Oct. 9, '64 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ....... ........ ..... 85
Pawloski, Charles..........Feb. 16, '65 Glassel Park ... ...605 Los Angeles .......... 85
Scrivner, Chester .......... Mar. 19, '65 Van Nuys ............ 450 Van Nuys ........ .... 87
Taylor, Myron................ Dec. 28 '64 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles ..........69
Wilson, Alexander........ Feb. 23; '65 Alamo .................. 122 Walnut Creek ......77
Werry, John E ...............June 25, '65 King Solomon'sSeaport ..........260 San Francisco ...... 83
WITHDRAWN
A ge
T own
No.
Lodne
Date
Name
,,
Hopping, Charles..........Sept. 22, '64 Whittier ..............323 Whittier ................ 87
ii~~t;';e1;:0 &~;.y··········~Pr. 2f, ;~~ ~urtis .................. 140 Cloverdale ............ 79
·······s art. 7' 64 prook1yn b............ 225 Oakland ................79
Schermerh' orn, Le···o
..
earl Har or......598 H
r Y .. ep . ,
Sutherland, George ......Nov. 9 '64 Clovis ................. .4 17 Claw~u .................. 75
OVlS ······· .. ....... .... 84
Wilson• Alexand er........ A pr. 3', '65 Alamo ........... ..... ..122 Walnut
Creek .... .. 77

340

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1964 - 1955
July 1. 1964 io June 30, 1965
ADMISSIONS-MEN -AVERAGE AGE 80.80 YEARS
Age
No.
Town
Admitted
Lodge
Name
Allen, William J ........ ...June 29, '65 Mission ............ .... 169 San Francisco ......92
Anderson, Alfred A .......Oct. 9, '64 Hollywood .......... 355 Hollywood ............ 78
Bentley, Les L ...............Nov. 19, '64 Sanger ........... .....613 Sanger .................. 73
Brasington, J ames..........Dec. 15, '64 Ramona ............. .457 Monterey Park....86
Butler, Kenneth ............ Dec. 31 , '64 Park ....................449 San Francisco ...... 78
Campion,
Richard Lee ..............June 24, '65 So. San Fran .......212 San Francisco ...... 81
Domenigoni, Valentino Nov. 9, '64 San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto .......... 85
Driver, Joseph H ...........June 29, '65 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ...... 80
Farley, Everett... ........ ..... May 21, '65 Petaluma ............ 180 Petaluma ....... ....... 75
Ferraris, Natale ............Mar. 3, '65 Sp. Italiana ........ 219 San Francisco ...... 76
Garve, Kurt J . ..............June 14, '65 Golden Gate ........30 San Francisco ...... 71
Grosh, Edward B. ..........Aug. 5, '64 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto .............. 72
Hemming, Frank L ......... Oct. 12, '64 Southland ..........618 Los Angeles .......... 84
Hertel, Julius C ............. Jan. 25, '65 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles .......... 91
Hooper, Fred .................. Mar. 14, '65 La Jolla ..............518 La Jolla ................ 84
Kreamer, John A ...........Dec. 11, '64 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach .... 95
Langstaff, Edward ...... .. Feb. 22, '65 W. G. Harding....579 No. Sacramento....72

341

DEATHS-MEN-AV ERAGE AGE 84.80 YEARS
Died
Name
No.
Lodge
Age
Town
Biehl, William ................Apr. 24, '65 Crocker ................ 454 Daly City ............ 97
Bogan, Cleo ....................July 8, '64 San Gorgonio......668 Banning ................ 83
Case, Byron W...............Dec. 29, '64 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ................ 75
Chapman, Dorr ..............May 28, '65 Corona ................324 Pasadena ..............88
Cloyd, John W ................. Feb. 14, '65 Three Pillars ....613 Sacramento ..........84
Decker, George............Aug. 9, '64 Mendocino .......... 179 Mendocino ............ 80
Diefenbach, William...... Oct. 2, '64 Solano ....... .........229 Vallejo ..................81
Fisher, Harry F ............. Sept. 22, '64 King Solomon'sSeaport ..........260 San Francisco ...... 82
Grosh, Edward B ...........Nov. 17 '64 Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto .............. 72
'64 Martinez ........... .....41 Martinez ..............87
~ille_spie, Earl................ Sept.
astmgs, Vernon ............Apr. 7, '65 La.fayette ............126 Sebastopol ............92
Hertel, Julius C ...............May 5, '65 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ....... .91
Kreamer, John A .........June 17, '65 Redondo .............. 328 Redondo Beach .... 96
Luchs, Jo~n. C .................Oct. 5, '64 Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego ............92
McCall, William.............. July 27, '64 Oroville .............. 103 Oroville ................ 98
Mann, William J .... :........ Mar. 26, '65 East Belt ............391 Tuolumne ............88
Moler, Clarence ............Feb. 5, '65 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ..................81
Moulthrop, Carlton ...... Apr. 8, '65 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ................79
Murray, James B ........ ...June 2, '65 Westwood .......... 501 Westwood ............ 85
Neal, Frank....................July 22 '64 Palo Alto ............ 346 Palo Alto ..............82
Patti~on, Wm. C ............. Dec. 9; '64 LaCumbre ..........642 Santa Barhara ...... 80
Resnick, John J .............May 19 '65 Palos Verdes ...... 389 Long Beach ..........79
'64 Ocean Park ........ 369 Ocean Park .......... 85
Robertson, Wm. L eslie Sept.
Roche, George E . ..........Jan. 23, '65 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ...... ...... 92
Schooley, Auburn L .... .Oct. 16, '64 East Bay ... ...... .. .489 Berkeley ..............90
Strain, William R. .... .... Nov. 18, '64 The Gardens ...... 621 Los Angeles ........ 78
Thom~son, Elmer F ..... June 8 '65 Meridian ........... .667 Glendale .............. 79
'65 Thousand Oaks 478 Berkeley .............. 79
Vest, oseph T .................Apr.
Wakeman, George F ..... Feb. 27, '65 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne .......... 85
Waldeyer, Wilhelm ........Feb. 9, '65 Pacific ................ 136 San Francisco .... .. 84

20:

24;
rn;

342

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1964 • 1965
July I. 1964 to June 30, 1965
NAMES OF WOMEN RESIDENTS-AVERAGE AGE 82.32 YEARS
•Indicates admission during current year.
tlndicates couples
Age
T own
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Abbott Sarah E ............. Mar. 10, '60 Mizpah .... ........... 378 Los Angeles ........ 79
Allen Helena V.t • ........June 29, '65 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ...... 84
Allen,' Maude..................A ug. 22• ,'58 Lexington .......... 104 El Monte ..............83
Ames, Myra D .. :..............May 8• •54 Delano ... ..... ........ 309 Delano .................. 78
Anderson, Hattle ............ May 3~, ,57 Jewel .......... ........ 37-1 San Francisco ...... 91
Anderson Mary............Sept. , 60 San Mateo .... ......226 San Mate o ............ 86
Andrews1 'Lela M....... ....Sept. 2, '58 Friendship .......... 210 San Jose .............. 89
Angwin, Hilda ..............Nov. 14, :62 Charter Rock ... .410 Be rkeley ..............78
Appel, Henrietta H .. .....Aug. 12, 60 Vermont
Square ............ 515 Los Angeles ........80
Barnett Marie W........... Mar 21, '63 Acorn .................. 494 Oakland .............. 76
Barsto~. Eva M .............Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose .............. 83
,
F b
Bartrip,
Ada (Weinberg) t ........ e . 7, 63 Redondo .............. 328 Redondo Beach .... 76
Temblor ..... ......... 477 Fellows ................ 89
'56
24
t
0
L
·
Belknap, Annie ........... c · • ,
Bennett Rose M . .......... Oct. 9, 61 Golden State ......358 L os Angeles ........83
Bentley' Mary F .•t ......Nov. 19, '64 Sanger ................ 316 Sanger .................. 62
Bergen,' Anna................ Nov. 28, '60 S. F .-Victory .....360 San Francisco ......90
Biehl, Elsie M................. Sept. 28, '61 Crocker .............. 454 Daly City ............ 93
Bielar Grace ..................Apr. 23, '62 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz .......... 78
Bigga,l Effie F .................Apr. 13, '62 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ...... 74
M ...........Jul Y 17 • ,'59 King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo.. 84
·
Black, ' Eyahta
Bloy Edith ...................... Nov. 2 , 55 Dunsmuir ... .......297 Dunsmuir ............ 93
Blu~, Lena ......................May i~· '. ~g San Diego ... ....... 35 San Diego ............77
San Gorgonio .... 668 Banning ............... 77
Bogan Selma E ............. Aug. ,
Broka~ Leona C...........Apr. 17, '58 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ..................84
Brown 'Jean L ............... Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... 85
Brown~ Rachel R. ........ June 21, '54 Las P almas ........ 366 Fresno ..................76
Caffrey: Marie ................Mar. 20, '63 Abell .................... 146 Ukiah .................... 86
Campbell, . Alice .............. Oc~. ~~· '.~1 Lebanon ............. .495 San Francisco ...... 78
Balder ................. 393 San Francisco ...... 71
Carlson Lisa t ................Fe . ,
Carroll ' Frances ............Aug. 1, '60 Alameda ............ 167 Fre m ont ................ 80
Carsw~ll, Adella B .........Dec. 31, '58 LaFayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ............ 93
Casterline, Mary A ....... Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ....... .....381 Oceanside .............. 92
Castle, Ollie R. ..............Nov. 26, '61 S. W. Hackett....574 San Diego ............80
Cheney, Hazel E ...........Aug. 15, '51 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 79
Christian, Nellie I. • .. ....Aug. 21, '64 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............80
Clark Elizabeth H ....... Mar. 14, '62 Richmond .......... 375 San Fra ncisco ...... 92
Clegh'orn, Lou Belle......Mar. 15, '61 Caledonia ..........486 Bakersfield ..........86
Combs, Lena E.t.. ........Sept. 2, '62 Hawthorne .. ...... 647 Hawthorne ..........76
Corbin, Elsa B . ..............May 31, '61 Clovis ................. .417 Clovis ....................81
Cormeny, Rose ..............Aug. 29, '60 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ................ 89
Cortright, Laura ............ Sept. 7, '54 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley ..............88
Coward, Anna ................ Oct. 21, '60 McKinley ............ 347 Richmond ............83
Crawshaw, Della ............ Apr. 30, '64 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose ..............75
Dale Gertrude .............. Mar. 31, '60 Rockridge ......... .468 Oakland ................84
Davi~, Viola Mae ............July 10, '62 VermontSquare 515 Los Angeles ........ 82
Diefenbach, Bertha ........Feb. 20, '62 Solano ............ ...... 229 Vallejo ..................77
Dillman, Edythe
(DuBois)t .................. Mar. 2, '62 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................65
Donaldson, J. Elaine ....Feb. 14, '58 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ..........84
Drysdale, Charlotte ......July 5, '62 S.F.-Victory ...... 360 San Francisco ......81

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

343

Admitted
Name
No.
Lodge
Age
Totvn
Dulfer, L ola D. • ............June 2, '65 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......74
Dunn, Eleanor R. t ........Feb. 9, '62 H. S . Orme ....... .458 L os Angeles ........72
Eas tman, Leona J . ........Mar. 7, '63 Solano ................ 229 Va ilejo ..................76
Ed wa rdes, Lina M .........May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......83
Elliott, Maud M . ...........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills .... 528 Beverly Hills ...... 87
E ly, E va Estelle ............Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters
................ 82
Esser, Marga ret J ...........Dec. 19, '62 Mt. Davidson ... .481 Sa n F rancisco
..... 86
'61
16,
Mar.
............
Evans, Christina
Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............ 83
'57
4,
Nov.
............
nie
en
J
anning,
F
Oa kland .............. 158 Oakland ................ 85
Farrar, Gertru de • ... .....June 4, '65 Mill Valley ........356 Mill
Valley ....... _..82
Feiling, Idabel C ........... Feb. 3, '59 Mt. View ............194 Mt. View ..............84
Flemming. Thora J . ... ...Jan. 3, '58 Me nd ocino .......... 179
ndocino ............83
Foley, Lida E ................... Apr. 18, '55 Bellflowe r .......... 523 Me
Dcllflower ............ 73
Forgie, Helene ............. .Feb. 25, '63 Morning Sta r .... 68 Stockton ...........-.. ..81
Fos ter, Ma ry I...... ...........F eb. 15, '63 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................83
Fox, Berth a B. .. ............ Mar. 12, '62 P a rnassus ............ 388 San Francisco ......30
Fre ulich, Hclcne ............July 11, '5!J Hollywood ... ....... 355
···-········77
Ga rrison, Gladys............ Feb. 1, '64 Mt. View ............ 1!)4 Hollywood
Mt. View -............. 69
Gerbert, Fra nces E .......May 2, '59 Three Pillars .... 612 Sacramento
..........86
Gillia m, Es telle G ......... Mar. 20, '46 Hemet .................. 615 Hemet ..................
81
Gil mo re, Emma V ......... Feb. 26, '64 Three Pilla rs .... 613 Sacramento .......... 73
Golds tein, Mollie..........June 12, '64 Lincoln ................ 470 San Francisco ...... 73
Good win. Emrna ............June 13, '58 VermontSqua re 515 os Angeles .......... 92
Graves, Lot tie ................Mar. 25, '64 Hollywood ..........355 L
Hollywood ............80
Grindell, Ma t ilda ............ Jan. 13, '64 Eucalyptus ........ 2-13 Hayward
90
Gu ndlach, Na ncy .......... June 8, '62 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield..............
.......... 81
Halford, Lucy W.t ........ Apr. 2, '63 Visalia ................ 128 Visalia .................. 79
Hansen, Grace Z .............Jan. 11, ' 60 River bank .......... 459
bank ............ 78
Hanthorn, Bessie R. ......Feb. 19, '62 Pt. Firm in .......... 558 River
San Pedro ............ 88
Hardy, Alice M ...............Dec. 27, '54 Rockridge ......... .468 Oakland
................ 93
Hare, Violet .................... May 12, '60 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......85
Harpe r, L a u ra D ........... Nov. 6, '57 Yolo .................... 81 Yolo ........................82
Has call, Mabel M. t ........Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................ .362 Campbell
.............. 77
Hawkes, Lelia E ............. Aug. 11, '61 Las Palm as ........ 366 Fresno ..................
81
Hawkins, Evelyn V .......Apr. 4, '61 Yerba B uena ... .. .403 Oakland
.. .............. 81
Hays, Lilian T ....... :.........May 5, '55 Center ............... .465 Fresno .......... ....... 69
He dbur g, Huldah A ....... Mar. 5, '53 Fresno ................247 Fres no ..................86
He lmore, Ada F ............. Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley .......... 89
He ndricks, Mary H.......Dec. 28, '63 Tuolumne .......... 8 Sonora .......... -....... 82
Hendrickson, Frances ..May 16, '62 Coalinga ..............387 Coalinga ............... 90
Hepburn, Ca ther.ine ......Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ............ 637 Santa Monica ...... 73
H ertel, Agnes H. • ..........Jan. 25, '65 South G ate ........ 320 Los
Angeles ........ 77
Hinze, Henrietta M .......Jan. 27, '54 Morning Sta r .... 68 Stockton
-........... 80
Hos kins, Eliza beth ........ May 3, '55 Lancaster ........... .437 Lancaster..................
86
Hyde, Florence M. L ... Seb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ........ 422 Los Angeles ·--.....81
Hyde, M. Gertrude ........ Feb. 4, '64 Cupe rtino .......... 510 Cupertino
.............. 87
Hy land, Erle W .............Dec. 3, '56 Sun Ga rden ......530 Fresno .................. 78
Irela nd, Lillian B. ........Aug. 10, '61 Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ......69
J a kobs, Inez.................... Feb. 17, '60 Monterey ............ 217 Monterey ..............80
Jordan, Evaline ............ Mar. 27, '56 H artley ................ 199 Lakeport ..............95
Kalls trom, Edith L ....... Aug. 29, '60 Ca h uenga ............513 Hollywood ............89
Kapantais, Edith............F eb. 14, '55 Ionic .................... 520 L os Angeles ........ 81
Kapp, Ca rrie
(Vorsanger) ................ July 16, '49 San Jos e ................10 Sa n Jose .............. 93
Kent, Evaline C .............Sept. 6, '55 Golden Gate ........30 San
Francisco ......81
Kirtlan, Minnie E. .......... Jan. 3, '58 Franklin ............ 143 Courtland ............ 80
Kreamer, Louise D. • ....Dec. 11, '64 Redondo .............. 328 Redondo Beach .... 87
Krejcik, Rose..................Feb. 16, '58 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ...... 90
Lagomars ino,
Henrietta ..................Sept. 2, '58 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ........ 90

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

Age
T ou>n
No.
Lodge
Admitte d
Name
77
........
s
Angele
Los
.405
..
.............
'49
Moneta
5,
Sept.
..........
e
Lartcr, Gertrud
73
............
ood
415
Hollyw
....
Trowel
Silver
'61
3,
Mar.
........
Lee. Zida F .............
82
...
.............
d
448
....
Concor
Diablo
Mount
'62
14,
Dec.
.
..............
F
Leslie, Mary
Mill Valley .......... 99
L ocke, Teresa ........ ... .....Mar. 9, '62 Mill Valley ........356
21 Honolu lu ............. .83
L ook, C . Maude ..............Mar. 16, '59 Hawaii an ..............375
San Francis co ...... 87
Luscom be, Laura C .....June 29, '58 Richmo nd ........
d .. .............. 86
Macken zie, May W . .....June 30, '41 Bay View .. .......... 401 Oaklan
L ong Beach .......... 77
MacKin non, Doroth y .... July 29, '61 Alta Loma ........ 643
20 Sacrame nto ........ 82
McAda m, Emma K ....... Sept. 12, '60 Washin gton ........ 585
Los Angele s ........ 87
Mccan n, Elizabe th J ...Aug. 4, '59 Manche ster .......... 244 Oaklan
d ................ 89
McDow ell, Alice M .... ...Mar. 24, '32 Alcatra z ................ 583 Wasco .............. ...... 82
McNair n, Verda A ......... July 29, '58 Wasco ..............
22 San Francis co ....76
Marsha ll, Lucy M .........June 29, '61 Occide ntal ..........
... 123 Heal dsburg ........ 100
Matthe ws, Annie ............ Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyo me .. .......
Richmo nd ............ 92
Mayfie ld, Mary.............. Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ........ ..... ..... 431
209 San Luis O bispo 82
Meck, Lulu M ........ ..... Sept. 14, '55 King David's ......
.....352 Los Angeles ........ 82
Miller, Catheri ne E. ... ...Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ............. ..... 321 Pleasan ton ............ 7S
Miller, Mildred A.• ........Dec. 1, '64 Alisa! ............. 63S Riversi de ..............64
Morefie ld, Mattie C. • .... Apr. 5, '65 Riversi de ............
Moulth rop, Gladys
Francis co ......76
(Hagem ann)* t ............ Oct. 1, '64 Mission ................ 169 San
San Francis co ...... 84
M uller, Caroly n J ........... O ct. 19, '62 Golde n West ....... 45S
10 San Jose ................73
Munn, Margaret L. • ......Mar. 4, '65 San J ose .............
ll .... 636 Beve rly Hills ...... 86
Marsha
John
'52
12,
Jan.
......
....
ne
Catheri
l,
Murrel
Long Beach ........ 80
N estle, Asenat h ... .......... July 7, '59 Long Ileach ........ 327
Los Angele s ..........86
42
........
s
Angele
Los
'59
9,
July
...
G
s
France
Neuma nn,
Erma
s,
Nicolau
368 Glenda le .......... ...... 72
(Robins on) .............. ....J an. 27, '59 Unity ............. ..... 244
Oaklan d ...... .......... 86
........
......
z
Alcatra
'60
23,
Feb.
...........
...
Ida
Nussba um,
613
Sacram ento .......... 77
....
Pillars
Three
'63
15,
Apr.
..
.............
W
Ohrn, Daisy
.................. 82
79
Eureka
............
ldt
Humbo
'52
28,
May
....
Olse n, Minnie ..............
.......... 79
ento
Sacram
59
.....
.............
Union
'60
25,
Apr.
.....
Olsh, Sophia ............
Pace, MayE.
Cruz ..........74
(Taforo )t ........... ........... Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa
Los Angele s ........ 84
Pawlos ki, Mary• t ............F eb. 16,'65 Glassel Park ......605 San
Bernar dino....79
Pease, Edith M. • ............ Aug. 31, '64 San Bernard ino ..348
ino ............8S
Pitts, Adelaid e S ........... Feb. 5, '54 Mendoc ino .......... 179 Mendoc
San Diego ............ 74
Prucha, Velma F ........... F eb. 19, '57 Silver Gate ........296
San Francis co ......86
Rabv, Gertrud e L ........... Dec. 17, '57 Occide ntal .......... 22 Baldwi n Park ..... .80
Ray~ Ada E ............. ....... Aug. 18, '61 Baldwi n Park .... 660 San Diego ............ 83
Reason er, Marie (Jefts) July 21 , '48 Normal Heights 632 San Jose .............. 82
10
R ehdorf, Josephi ne ...... Apr. 25, '63 San Jose ............
............. .........81
Roberts , V. Myrlet ......Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa
Santa Maria ........ 83
Robertson, Margaret ....Apr. 17, '63 Hesper ian .......... 264 Long
Beach ........ 78
Rogers, M. IsabeL ....... May 6, '61 Bixby Knolls .... 699 San Francis co ......91
... 169
Rose, Mary ........ ........... Sept. 6. '56 Mission ..................
Francis co ...... 79
Ross, J ean .. ............. .........Apr. 16, '58 Pacific ............. 136 San
San Francis co ......93
Rounds , Florenc e ........June 12, '54 Jonath an ............S45 Hollyw ood ............ 84
Russell , Sybil A ...........Sept. 17, '60 Utopia ............... ... 537
Angele s ....... .81
Ryder, Bertha .......... .....Oct. 17, '58 West Lake ........ 392 Los
L os Angele s ........ 74
394
..........
iversity
Un
'64
5,
an.
J
..
..............
Alma
,
Sanford
113 San Leandr o ........ 89
Schluet er, L ouise G ....... July 18, '63 Eden ... ............. ....489
Berkele y ............. .88
............
Bay
East
'59
2,
Mar.
.........
A
Mary
y,
Schoole
Santa Ana ............ 69
241
..........
Ana
Santa
'58
4,
July
..........
...
M
Scovel, Marie
Palo Alto ..............80
346
.
...........
Alto
Palo
'52
14,
May
........
R.
S eagrave , Edna
lu ............. .87
Honolu
.409
...........
lu
Honolu
'36
1,
eb.
F
............
S eymour , Laura
Angele s....84
Los
W.
373
..
s
Angele
Los
W.
'57
2,
Aug.
Shenic k, Elcano r............
................ 91
d
Oaklan
61
............
Oak
Live
'59
23,
Sept.
.............
Sibley, Mabel L
..... 81
.............
Benicia
5
.
.............
..
Benicia
'63
17,
Sept.
Singler , M. Louise ........
.. 72
.........
.....
Antioch
175
..............
Antioch
'65
28,
Apr.
Skeen, Emma H .• ..........
87
..........
ento
Sacram
40
........
ento
Sacram
'56
25,
Apr.
Slocum b, Mabel W .........
86
...
.............
k
Norwal
315
............
k
Norwal
'63
11,
Smith, Eva M .............. ...Feb.

Lod
Admitte d
Name
Age
Town
No.
ge
S ' th G
Oa k ..............61 0 a kl and
Live
'60
6
Sept.
.............
M
95
race
'
m!
'
·
1
M
L
S mith
················
S68
·····-······· ar. 6• 61 Park Boulev ard 576
· ·
s · h' Hazel
79
···
·············
d
Oaklan
Oct. 16, '61 El Cajon ............
S m1t ' Lillian L .............Dec.
El Cajon .............. 87
nowden , J ean E ...........
29, •,58 Fe rnd a1e ........... .193 Fernda
91
le
Snyder Amand a G ·····-· A pr. 13, 37 Ba kersfi"eld ........224
·····--······ ···•
field .......... 92
Bakers
StaP ff 'Mary S
M
F
S
2
Doric
'60
29
ar
·······o ...... 81
·······
16
rancisc
'
an
.
......
.
.............
•
•
S t eigelma n, Joan t ........ Mar: 19 60
e r ........... 79
Stevens on , Te resa .......... Feb 28• •63 ~~ll~low er ··· ...... 523 Bellflow
Hawaii ............. .....82
St~wart, Edna May........ Dec. 15 • •61 Eas~ici .. i................472 Los A n geles ......... 76
a e ...... ...... 290
Stitt, Hilda L. • ..............July 31 • •64
y ................65
Straigh t, Johann a ........ Dec. 14• ,63 ff~o-~sald Oaks . .478 Berkele
..336 Oaklan d ............. ... 72
Stromb erg, Laura A. ....Mar. s; •59 Ex~i t a e ..........
e s_ior ............ 166 San Francis co ......80
Stro~d, Laura L ...........June 2, •37
91
134 Vacavi lle
Swam, Sarah C ............... Feb. 1 'Sl Vacavil le ............
Alamed a .. :::::::::::::·86
LAopsolAlo ........... ....... 396
t 12•,
s
S weeney Sada s
A
L
42
ngeles ········
90
········· Aep · ' 59
•
os nrreles
.
T ier
Sofie
Los Angel es
th Park ...h......563
ug. 28• 'S 8 Sou
R ·b····················· Aug.
T"ll '
S
44
M
Mount
'63
2
rnan, u Y M ........... N
81
a n Francisco
. . ona ······
'
T !immer
Anne M
.·.· .·.·.-_.77
Pres1_d1J0 ............. .3S4 San Franci"sro
'59 Sta
ov. 30,
·-······-··
~
T ownson' , Mary P.
14 '6?
t ......Feb.
...SS
Modest
206 S
.. ....,... .260
• m s a us
F o .............
Tunste ad' R osa. .............J uly S' '57w King
Solomo
an rancisc o ...... 88
n s..
'
Van H arrevel d

344

345

0

::::::::as

Va~~~i~':t~~~ io~~phi~~"t;r~ ~~· :~:

King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo 79
Fresno ................ 247 Fresno ····················87
'
J
Vels1r Vera R
81
................. an · 24' '64 L os G a t os ..........292 Los Gato s ·· ········-Wai t ' F l
orence ............Dec. 9, '54 Seal Rock ·········· 536 San Francis
e,
co ......86
W a Ik e r, Anne
82
29, '62 Fruitva le ............ 336 Oaklan d
W~;y;1dJeern)-ri u:e····A············· ··ADug.
················
············· ec. 7 'S4 Hollenbeck ........ 319
.
Wh '
D ec. 219: 'S9 Meridia n ............ 669 ~.I;n~~feeles ...........8977
Darursryi.e tWte· ··c··········N
Whrtaet, H
....... ov. 9 '62 Bl k{l1er ..... .......442 San Diego.............
. '
............ 93
\l{~ittaker, Ada H ...........Oct. 8 • ,52 Daac
... 92
.............
d
Oaklan
.401
.........
iew
.
Y
S
,
•
W 1lhams, Winnie B .....Sept. 22 61
..... ......... 349 Oaklan d ................ 8S
W!rth, B. Eileen• ..........Jan. 29• ,65 J eqt~ma .............
... S49 S an Francis co ...... 80
Wisew e!l, Evelyn .. ........ Feb 18• •54 us ice
91
nia ············ I San Francis co ...... 88
Wood, Uriel P ... ..............F eb: 19: •63 Califor
Sequoi a .............. 349 Oaklan d ·············· ··
n
Wynma
Eva
JI
G
A
S
'S9
2
ept
.........
0 ............. ... 396 Al ameda .............. 88
,
.
Wnght , Alice M.•........ Nov: 13 • ,64 TP~
e ama .............. 3 S acrame nto .......... 82
'
Wuster . Yoland e
(Dec ker) .............. ........ Aug. 2 '59 Washin gton ........ 20 S acrame nto .......... 74
Y_oung, Edith !... ............Nov. n' .63 Teham a
3
ento .......... 72
2
1mmerm an, Edith ........O ct. 28; •63 Naval .... :::::::::::::: 87 t~W:·m
1
UNION CITY
MASON IC HO:ME S OF CALIF ORNIA
'
ANNU AL REPOR T 1964. 1965
July I, 1964 to June 30, 1965
ADMIS SIONS -WOM EN-AV ERAG E AGE 75.22 YEARS
No
Lodge
Admitte d
Name
Age
Town
16g
..
..............
Mission
'6S
~~tl~ Helene V ............. June 29, '64
San Francis co ......84
613
Sanger
19,
. .Y. Mary·:··············ANov. 21
Sanger ..................62
······
······-···
Ch nst1an
Nellie ............ ug. , '64 H awaiian
············ 21 H awaii ..................79
Dulfer '
166
or
Excelsi
'6S
2,
• Lola.................... J un e
F
............ 3S6 San Francis co ..... .73
arrar, Gertrude ............June 4, '65 Mill Valley
Mill Valley ..........82
······ ·
·
2S '6S
J
H ertel Agnes
South Ga te .......320 Los Angele s ..........77
Krea~er Lo~i~e ············Dan. 11', 4 Redond
328 R edondo Beach ....87
o
············ ec. , 6
•.
··············
al
Miller, Mlldred
............. Dec 1 '64 Ar
. is ...................321
Pleasan ton ............74
Morefi eld Mattie·········-·A pr.· 5 •,6 5 R 1versid
63S Riversi
e
•
de ..............64
············
i
Mis
'64
1'
M ou 1t h rop,
Oct.
........
Gladys
son ................169 San Francis co ...... 7S
•,
M
Munn Margar et
..... ······ ar. 4 ' 65 San Jose ...... ....... 10 San Jose ............. .. .73
Pawl~ski M
Glassel Park ...:sos Los Angele s .......... 83
Pease Edith ary..............AFeb. 3161, ;645 San
Bernar dino 348 San Bernar dino 78
.................... ug. • 6
Sk '
een, Emma ............. .....Apr. 28, '6S Antioch ................ 175 Antioch ................ 72

~~~~~;~~

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Town
N ame
Age
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Stitt, Hilda ......................July 3 1.;6 ~ Thousand Oaks 478 Berkeley .............. 64
122 Walnut Cree k ......67
W I·1son Ellen ········-······-- ·Feb · ' ;;i Alamo ..................549
San Francisco ...... 79
Wirth 'B. Eileen ..............J an . 29. '63 Justice ................
W n'gh't' Al1'ce ····· ·········Nov . 13' '64 Tehama ······--······ 3 Sacrame nto ........ 81
WITHDR AWN
Town
Age
Lodge
Name
No.
Date
C arter Adelia ....... ......... Aug. ~6. '64 Santa Cruz ----·--- 33 Santa Cruz ..........91
Finch, ' Ber tha ..................J u l Y 31 • ',6-1 Cahuen ga ___ ........ 513 Hollywoo d ............78
Lyon, Della ......................May 22, 65 Amity-Se al
Rock ................370 S a n Francisco ......82
Nipps Gertrude ............Sept. 2. '64 Military S ervice ~~g S an Francisco ......84
Wilso~, Ellen ..................Apr. 3, '65 Alamo ··---·------ ···--·
· W alnut Creek ......67
DEATHS -WOME N-AVER AGE AGE 86.20 YEARS
No.
Town
Age
Lodge
Name
D ied
·mstrong
Emma
.......
.
F
eb
.
28,
'65
Gold~n
Rule
.......
.479 San Jose -- ·------·-·----82
Al
'
M
est Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles -·---·-·· 82
Bavouset , Cora .: ···-------- at.· 21 •,' 65· W
Wilmingt on .......... 91
Carey Marguen te ... ..... Sept. 24, 6-1 Wilmington ____ ____ 198
79
Clayb~rger, Alice ..........Nov. 30, ,' 6! S an Joaq uin........ 19 Stoc kt
on ---------·-·---- 7
·
M
22 60 Atascade ro ......... .493 Atnscade ro
... .........9
C rilky, J essie -----········---· T ay 5' ·55 Fresno .................
. 247 Fresno ....................91
Ekns Ma r garet. ................ a n. •
r- ·1 y
85
'
eith --··· ·······-- ···-·-187 '-Tl
ro ·······--·-·········
Harrison, ,~'l ice............ .... D cc. 23 ' ,'6-1 K
McKinlev ............ 347 Richm
ond ........... .86
Hitchcoc k. S tella ............16e~. 2~, -~1 P asaden a ............ 272 P asadena ··· ······-----~4
H oov er, E. J an e .............. c.
L os An~eles .......... 19
J ackson Nell L ............. May 20,, '65 Henry Knox ... ..... 66572 s
'·
A
9 '64 San ta R osa ..........
a n ta Ros~u ··· ··· · -· --· 90
Lane, Ed1t1:J......... . .. ...... ug. 8. '64 Hanford ......... ..... 279 Hanford
---· ······---···93
L ogan. Ahce ........ ......... Aug. ·
McDanie l, Elizabeth ......Mar. 13, '65 Atascade ro -····--·49"•' At asc ade ro ············ 89
Mt>rrav , L or et ta
'
H •
Apr 28 '65 Starr K mg
········ 3 4 • San Francisco ...... 73
y m an ·····
·J une. 2' '65 L
A n geles -· ······ 4?., L os AngelPs ··· ···-··-91
p 1.t ner E va H ··············-··
os
· ···· ····--- ···
' Julia ..............
... J u ly 10,' '61 Crockett .............. 139 San F rancisco .. ... 94
sSalter
d · Ed.th
July 22 '64 Inglewoo d ......... .421 Inglewood ........... .89
an crs,
I
········ ····--· 0 t
4' '64 S u rprise Valley 235 Ceda rville ............83
Ssfalding , ~~_li~·-· ·· ····-····Fecb. 27' '65 Alpha ............ ......431 Richmon d ............8835
evenson,
···-··· ······s·
. 4' '64 G olden Gate
·····--· 30 San Fra ncisco--···· 86
St o11e L u Cy ---··············· e p t · '
Wilki~, Eva ......................
July 25, '6-1 Californi a .......... l S an F r anci sco ··---·

CHILD REN AT COVIN A HOME

346

23 6

347

June 30, 1965

Boys- 36
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Archinal , Steven ..........Nov. 12, '56 Liberal Arts ...... 677 W. Los Angeles .... 16
Bloedel, Kurt R. ............June 16, '62 Mount Olive ....506 Los
........ 12
Cooper, Douglas ............Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Angeles
Leandro ...... 13
Cooper, Dwight W .........Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ......
14
Cooper, William ............Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ...... 15
Cox, Dennis L ...............Sept. 5, '55 Fairfax ................556 Larkspur
14
Cox, Wayne Alan ..........Aug. 11, '54 Fairfax ................556 Larkspur ..............
..............
Crane, Joseph T ............. Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk . .... 382 Los Angeles ........ 169
Drake, Charles W ......... Nov. 30, '62 Fellowsh ip ....... .480 Oakland ................15
Edmunds, R. Bob ..........June 13, '64 Fruitvale..............336 Oakland ................
13
Figearo, Bert• .... .... ........ May 16, '65 Covenan t ....... ..... 527 Hawthor
.......... 8
Gockley, Craig W. • ......Mar. 1, '65 St. Elmo ............697 Oakland ne
.... ............13
Howey, Bruce ................. .Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ......467 Los Angeles
........ 15
Howey, Bud .......... ........Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ..... .467 Los Angeles ........
Kausrud, Stuart C .........Jan. 26, '64 Burbank ............ 406 Burbank .............. 14
King, Brent......................Apr. 11, '64 San Fernando.... 343 San ernando ...... 12
16
Kinnimo nt, Dave ..........Sept. 6, '61 Euclid .................. 519 Los F
Angeles ........ 17
Kinsler, Mark D ...........Nov. 4 , '63 Abell ................. . 146 Ukiah .................
... 17
McCormi ck, J ohn L ..... Mar. 1, '59 Damascu s .......... 648 San
no.... 12
Mann, George D .............Jan. 1, '57 Alta Vista ..........464 DalyBernardi
City
..............
14
Moore, Dan C ................. Nov. 10, '62 Benton ................ 64 Benton,
Illinois .... 8
Moore, David F ............. Nov. 10, '62 Benton ................ 64 Benton,
Illinois .... 10
Moore, Dean ....................Nov. 10, '62 Benton ................ 64 Benton, Illinois
.... 7
Perkins, Mark A ......... ..Sept. 6, '63 Sojourne r ..........607 Duarte ...........
....... 12
P erkins, Raymond........Sept. 6 , '63 Sojourne r ....... ... 607
Duarte ---· ··-······---·· 9
P erkins, Walter E ......... S ept. 6, '63 Sojourne r .......... 607 Duarte
.................. 13
Perkins, Wilson ........... .Sept. 6, '63 Sojourne r .......... 607 Duarte .................
Rogers, William• ............ July 21, '64 Big Bear ............617 Big Bear Lake . 15
...... 6
Smith, Andrew J ...........Aug. 4, '61 Cahueng a .......... 513 Hollywoo d
18
Smith, Michael .·--v···-····A ug. 4, '61 Cahueng a .......... 513 Hollywoo d ............
............ 16
Taylor, Kevin A. ............ Oct. 24, '63 Cahueng a .......... 513 Hollywoo d ............
13
Utz, B. Ed ...................... Sept. 7, '63 Golden State .... 358 Los
........ 18
Van Buskirk, Craig ...... June 12, '63 Jubilee ................ 604 SantaAngeles
Ana ............ 11
Van Buskirk, Jeffrey .... June 12, '63 Jubilee ................ 604
Ana ............ 9
Wallach, Scott M .........Sept. 8, '63 Home .................. 721 Santa
No.
d .... 13
Warrick, Robert............Nov. 21, '54 Monte Vista ......655 LongHollywoo
Beach ........ 16
•Indicate s admission during current year.

CHILD REN AT COVIN A HOME
June 30, 1965

Girls- 25
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Cooper, Debrah J .........Nov. 25, '61 Eden ................... .113 San Leandro
........
Crane, Diane P ............. Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk. ....382 Los Angeles ........137
Crane, N. Terri.. ............Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk ..... 382 Los Angeles ........
14
Crane, Vivian ..............Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk..... 382 Los Angeles ........12
Edmunds , Deborah ......June 13, '64 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland
................11
Fitzgeral d, Deborah ....Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt ..... 260 San Francisco
14
Fitzgeral d, Marsha J .....Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt..... 260 San Francisco ......
... ...16
Fitzgeral d, Melanie ....Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt.....260 San Francisco ......
Gettig, Debra G ...........June 16, '64 Hollywoo d .......... 355 Hollywoo d ............ 79

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFO RNIA

ood ............ 6
Gettig, Linda J .............June 16, '64 Hollyw ood ..._______355 Hollyw d ________________ 10
Gockle y, Lori A. • __________ Mar. 1, '65 St. Elmo ____________ 697 Oaklan
d ------------- --- 9
Gockle y, Robin C. • ........Mar. 1, '65 St. Elmo -------··---697 Oaklan
Angele s -------- 6
Hampto n, Carol K_ ___ _____ Nov. 18, '62 Manche ster _____ ___ 585 L os Angele s ........ 8
os
Hampto n, Jennie L ....... Nov. 18, '62 Manche ster ........585 L
Los Angele s ........ 10
Hampt on, Vivian ........ Nov. 18, '62 Manch ester ........ 585
56 1 East San Diego .... 16
Larimo re, Linda S ......... July 7, ' 62 East San Diego ...617
Big Bear L ake ...... 4
.............
Bear
Big
'64
21,
July
.
.............
Rogers, Amie•
Big Bear Lake...... 5
617
.
.............
Bear
Big
'64
21,
uly
J
Rogers, J ulie• ..............
L ong Beach ........ 13
Smith, Carolyn Diane .. Feb. 1, ' 63 Signal .................. 543
685 San Marino .......... 12
Torranc e, Debra L .......Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........
San Marino ..........10
Torran ce, Kathy D ....... Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685
685 San Marino .......... 4
Torranc e, Laurie• ........ Sept. 5, '64 San Marino ........
San Marino .......... 8
Torran ce, Pamela J ..... Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........ 685
San Marino .......... 7
Torranc e, Sheryl M ..... Aug. 27, '6 1 San Marino ........ 685
H ollywoo d .... 8
Wallac h, Sandra S ..... Sept. 8, '63 H ome ..................721 No.
year.
current
during
on
admissi
tes
"Indica

MASO NIC HOM ES CONT RIBU TION S

348

Contrib utions to Reserve s
July l, 1964 - June JO , l9€S
<n:e Lodge designa tion indicat es connect ion b
interes t bu t not necessa r ily by member ship)y
RESERVE FOR ADDIT I ONS AND REPLACEMENTS
t:STATES :

Charles Dettman (Palisa des Lodge 1637)
Lee F, Laytham (Sequoi a Lodge #J49)
John A, Leward
J~hn Tonning se n (Orient al Lodge #1 4 4)
Gi l be rt C, Varey
Rudol ph Zi ll\Jllerman (Presid io Lodge IJ54)

MISC :

Walter E. Buck

ESTATES:

Florenc e s. Alley
Karl G. Ayers
Lawre nce H. Bat te en
Herbert Be ll (Seas ide Lodge 1504)
Frank J . Coleman
Mary Catheri ne Cooper
Mary Fitzpat rick
St anford Paul Gibbs
Lore n zo ~ · Haskin (Pomona Lodge 1246)
Edward G7l bert Jefferi es (San Die gu ito f77S)
Mary Eloise Joy
J ulias Karn
Harrell A. Ki rk
Margare t C. McGuire
Albert E. Newman (Oakwood Lodge 1743)
Madison T. Owens
Leon Hartin Rey
Adeline E. Ste vens (Alhamb ra Lodge 1322)
S. Sturmth al (Paul Revere Lodge f46 2)
rErnest
rank Thompso n
Arthur Joseph Thomure (Ho l lenbeck Lodge 1319)
Jesse N. Wats on
J , K. Wright

MISC;

Mrs . Sybil Bern
Wi lli s Bl akeslee
Ambrose & Gladys Bowyer
Foundat ion
Fires tone Employe es
General Telepho ne Co
'
Mobil Oil Company
Geo. W. Nilsson
Lila Randall

ESTATES:

Karl G. Ayers
Asa Hurley Comstoc k
Eugene W. Diefenb ach
John R. Foxgord
Stanford Paul Gi bbs
William F. Hill
Ma y Eloi s e Joy

Depar ted Durin g the Year, July 1, 1964, to June 30, 1965
Boys -6

$

900.00
1,148 .62
504.96
8 , 049.82
193.92
1 , 000.00

Chester c. Wrenn
COVINA RESERVE

Age
Date Discharged (at departure date)
Date Admitted
N ame
'64........................11
Carroll , Hal, Jr...........June 30, '62........................Dec. 29,
'64 ........................16
Fuller, Don, Jr.......... ... Sept. 12, '59........................ July 14,
........................18
Galvery , Frank J ....... Scpt. 6, '63 *.....................June 17, '65
'65 ........................ 15
Melche r, Burt N .........Sept. 12, '62.......................June 19,
...........12
Ritchie , T om ................ Dec. 13, ' 58 ....................... Sept. 5, '64 ........................ 15
Strauss, Mitche ll ........Feb. 11, '62.........................J an. 14, '65 .............

Girls -9
......... 16
Carroll , Christi ne ......June 30, '62....................... Sept. 8, '64. ..............
Caswel l,
............. ........... 16
Georgia R enee ........May 5, '57....................... Sept. 13, '64
........................ 18
'65
17,
June
..........
.............
'64
19,
n,
a
J
....
ea
Fitzger ald, Doroth
'65 ........................ 17
Hillhou se, Linda ..........Jan. 27, '62 .. .....................June 17,
'64 ........................ 14
Larimo re, Carolyn ......July 7, '62........................Nov. 8,
5, '64........................ 13
Ritchie , Linda .............. Dec. 13, '58 .......................Sept. 16,
........................ 14
Wedde ll, Jeanett e ........ J an. 6, '63 ........................ May 3, '65
............. ........... 13
Weddel l, Paulett e ...... Jan. 6, '63 ....................... June 20, '65
'65 ........................17
Werner , Beverly A. .... Sept. 3, '57 .......................J une
*Re-Ad mission

349

1, 000.00
J0.44
485.99
1 , 000.00
300,0 0
26.68
23 , 4J4.04
l , 022.S8
13 2. 04
50.0 0
s , 000.00
2,soo. 00
2,582 .9 0
11,000. 00
32,900 .21
11,553. 87
s,000 . 00
210. 24
1, 912.60
soo.oo
1, 000 . 00
l 05 , 2S0 . 07
SS . SJ

Order of ~ ainbow !or Girls
Assembl y No . 95
Assembl y No. 176
San Gabriel Valley Nobelet ts
S. 0, Snow
Space Technol ogy Labora tories
'
Inc..
Charles A. Wilson

DECOTO RESERVE
$

30,44
1,000 . 00
6SS . 70
1, 000 . 00
l,022.s 0
2so . oo
s,000. 00

350

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHRISTMAS AflD ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
(Continued)

DECOTO RESERVE
(continued)
ESTATES:

MISC :

Joseph Kahen
Julias Karn (Blackmer Lodge f442)
James H. Kew ( Inglewood Lodge #421)
Henry C. Lind
Will i am C. Nels on (S.F.-Victory Lodge #360)
Alice B. Parker
J esse H. Pass field
Mabel Pe t erson
Burton !<. Pi eke 1
Leon Martin Rey
Emily J . Rose
Irving Baruch Schoen
Rupert Schultheiss
Mable Spencer
Adeline E. Stevens (Alhambra Lodge f322)
Ernest S. Sturmthan ( Paul Revere Lodge #462)
Orvi lle C. Sweene y
Arthur Joseph Thomure (Hol lenbec k Lod ge i319)
Henry Vowinkel
Edward Arriola
Bakersfield A.& A.S .R.
Cyril Bonh am
Mrs. Belle Edmond s
General Telephone Co .
Mrs. Charles H. J enkins
B, C, McCabe

$

2,142. 86
2 , soo.00
1, 000.00
2 ,4 89.24
l,00 0 . 00

l ,248,4 9
l,OD0.00
SO.OD
607.88
s , 000.00
10 .11

s,S57.ss
149.82
6 , 841.67
210. 2<t

1,81'2 .60
S, 746 . 82
1,0 00 . 00

689.66

National Aeronaut i cs & Spa ce
Administra tion
George W. Nilsson
Harold S. & Leo J . Simon
Vau Chapter , Or der of Golden
Slipper , M.U . C.
Mrs. Arthur w. Warren

STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSH IP FUND
Ladies Club o f San Francisco, Craft No . 5
Leslie W. Stocker

CHRIS TMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
The Trustees of t he Masonic Homes acknowledge with appreciation the
contributions received from :
Knights Templar Commanderies
Sacramento No. 2
Nevada Ho. 6
Marys ville No. 7
San Jose No. 10
Chico No. 12
Golden Gate No . 16
Watsonville No. 22

San Luis Obispo No. 27
Pasadena No. 3l
Southern .Cal i f or ni a Ho, 37
Palo Alt o Ho . 47
Imperia ~ Va lley No, 54
Calvary No. 62

Sacr ame nto No, 3
Nevada No. 6
Sutter No. 11
Grass Valley No . 18
Petaluma Ho. 22
Dixon No. 48
Riverside No. 67
Crown No, 72

Royal Arch Mason Chapters (continued)
Huntington Park No. 127
Search light No . 133

Wi lmington No. 1111
Havasu No. 14 8

Royal and Select Masters Councils
Pasadena No . 16
Pomona No. 21

San Pe dro No. 115
Redwood Empire No. 46

A. & A.S.R. ( Bodies)
Bakersfield
Bu rlingame
Fresno

Oakland
Sacramento
San Jose

Distri ct Officers Associations
420th District
112lst Distr ict
506 th Di s tri ct
53 0t h Di s tric t

536th District
542nd District
605th Di strict
628th District

Masonic Clubs
Compass Club, Whittier
Edison Masonic Club
Estre llita Cl ub, San Marino
Long Beach Masoni c Club

S. £ I. D. Square Cl ub
(Tandem Bicyc l e)
San Francisco Square Clu b
Telephone Masonic Club, L.A.
Job' s Daughters, Rainbow for Girls, DeHolay
Fresno Assemb ly No , 51
Tulelake Assembly No. 64
Sanger As sembly No. 89
Bethel No. 103
Los Altos Bethel No . 169
Crown Chapter No , 72

Claremont Chapter - DeMolay
A, f. Hopkins Chap. DeMolay
Monterey Park Cho. DeHolay
Rainbow DeHo lay Mothe r' s
Club (Tandem Bi cycle)

Eastern Star and Amarant h
Mercedes Chap . No, 126
Havasu Chapter No. 148
Mi guelita Chapter No. 176
San Ra fael Chap. No, 215
Atascadero Chap . No. 3q4
Torrance Chapter Ho . 380
Siloam Chapter No. 406
Melita Chapter No. 467

Bakersf ield Pas t Matrons Assn,
East Bay Matrons of 195 1
Orange County Past Matrons
and Pa trons
Past Matrons & Past Patrons
of Santa Cruz
Starlette Club of Thousand Oaks
The S tarli ~ hters - Ventura

Miscellaneous

Royal Arch Mas on Chapters
Pomona No, 76
San Pedro No. 89
Pa l o Alto No . 9 3
Fidelity No. 96
Redondo No. 101
Mill Valley No. 109
South Pas adena No . 112
Sebastopol No. 117

351

Mr. & Mrs. Ernal Absher
Marvin Adee
Mr . & Hrs. Harry Baker
Howard & Elizabeth Bennett

Carey & Thelma Burch
John f. Clapper
Mrs. John Collins
"Crew of 5 2" and Their
Ladies - Palo Alto

PROCE EDING S OF THE

352

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
(Cont inued )

353

CHRISTMAS ANO ENTERTAIKMENT RESERVE
(·Ctmt inued)
Lodge s (Conti nued)

Misce llaneo us (conti nued)
T. J, David son
Vida 11. Dell
Freem a Faircl ough
H. & H. Feinm an
Stanl ey & Carrie Fishe r
Hrs. Lee Fox
Hrs. Edna I. Harri s
Clare nce S. Hearn
C. S . Hoobe r
Philip G, Howar d
Inglew ood Pub . Sch . Comm ittee
L. A. He rald-E xamin er
D. K. MacDougal
A. Mac key
Chest e r A. Mitch ell
Haze l Morla n
James L. Muir

Natio nal Heat Treat ing Co.
Order of Golde n Slipp er
Shin Chapt er
Paul A. Pf luege r
James L, Point er
Hugh Scott
Horri s Sederman
W. A. Sloan
Mr . ~ Mrs . Sterli ng St of le
Haro ld R. Swant on
A. Schie nle
Templ e Bapti st Chu rch
"Fe llows hip" - L. A.
A. Trapa ni
Mrs . Ruby Thompson
Danie l Ray Wagne r
Tom F. Walla ce

Lodge s
Calif ornia No. 1
Tehama No. 3
San Jose No. 10
Yount No . 12
Eurek a No. 16
La Parfa ite Un ion No.17
San Joaqu in No . 19
Washi n gton No. 20
Hawai ia n No . 21
Madiso n No. 23
El Dorad o No. 26
Tri nity No. 27
Golde n Gate No. 30
Gold Hi ll llo . 32
San Diego No. 35
Sa nta Cruz No . 38
Sacrame nto No. 40
Marti nez No . 41
Mount Moria h No. 44
Texas !lo, 46
Santa Rosa No . 57
Union No. 58
Live Oak No . 61
Natoma No. 64
Enterpri se No. 70
Yo lo No . 81
Vespe r No . 84
Naval No . 87
Yosem i te No. 99
Clay No, 101
Chico No . 111
Eden No . 113
Fide lit y No . 12 0
Lafay ette No. 126
Herma nn No, 127
Vi sa li a No . 128
Pac if ic !lo . 136
Crock ett No. 139
Frank lin No . 1~3
Ori e nta l No . 144
Woo dland No . 156
Exc el si or No . 166
Redwo od Ci ty No. 168

GRAN O LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

Elsin ore No. 28 9
Missi on No. 169
East Gate No . 290
Antioc h No . 175
t,iber ty No. 299
Petalu ma No. 180
Redla nds No. 300
Oakla nd No. 188
Ontar io No. 301
Ma rin No . 191
Ashl ar No. 306
Mounta in View No. 194
Monro via No. 308
Buckeye No . 19 5
Temescal No. 314
Wilmi ngton No. 198
Norwa lk No. 31 5
Si lveyv ille No, 201
Ali s al No. 321
Stani slaus No. 206
Nee dles No. 326
King David ' s No. 209
Redon do No. 328
Friendship No. 210
No . 3 31
So. San Franc isco No . 212 Pacif ic Grove
rruitv ale No. 336
Oak Grove No. 215
337
.
No
Ca r"!uine z
Montere y No. 217
344
Spera nza Italia na No.2 19 Starr Ki ng No. , 346
Pa lo Al t o No
Downe y No . 220
McKin ley No. 347
I nyo No . 221
San Berna rdino 348
Rosev il l e No. 222
Sequo ia No. 349
Baker sfie ld No . 22~
Pales ti ne No . 35 1
Brook lyn No. 225
Pi nol e No . 353
San Ma teo No. 226
Mill Va lley No . 356
Athen s No . 228
Chari ty No. 362
Hi ll s Ferry No. 236
So . Pas adena No.3 67
Guada luoe No. 237
Amity No. 3 7 O
Colus a No , 240
Jewel No. 374
Santa Ana No. 241
Franc i s Drake No . 376
La ure l No , 2 45
Artes i a No . 377
Fresn o No . 247
Miz pah No . 378
Landm ark No. 2 53
Fillmore No . 379
Read ing l/o , 254
Hichla nd Park 382
Pe nrhyn No . 258
Par nassus No. 388
Ever green No. 25 9
Palos Verde s No . 389
Lomooc No , 262
Balde r No . 393
Hespe rian No. 264
Unive r si t y No. 394
Orlan d Uo . 2 65
Burlin P,ame No . 400
(;alt No . 267
Yerb a Buena No. 403
Olive Branch !lo, 269
Mone ta tlo. 405
Pasad ena No, 2 72
La Mesa No . 407
Arroy o No , 274
Hon olulu No. 409
Hanfo rd No. 2 79
Pe rris No . 1111
Mader a !lo . 280
Si l ver Trowe l No .415
South West No .2 83·

Linds ay No, 416
Midway No . 42 6
San Dimas No, 428
Pittsb ur g No , 429
Alpha No. 431
Maric opa No . 434
Fai rmoun t No . 435
Stand ard No , 4~0
Blackm er No . 442
Torra nce No. 447
Mount Dia b lo No. 448
Park No. 449
Van Nuys No . 450
Argon aut No . 461
Pa ul Rever e llo. 462
Liber tas No. 466
Rockridee No. 468
Delta No . 471
Temb l or No, 477
TI'lousand Oaks No.47 8
Golde n Rul e No. 479
Ht.Da vidson No. 481
Bell No . 483
Chow chilla No. 485
Cal edoni a No. 486
Valle jo No. 487
Patter son No. 48 8
East Bay No. 489
Woods tock No. 491
Atasca dero No. ~93
Acorn No. 494
Capi t al City No,499

Roose velt No. 500
Harbo r No. 50 2
Point No. 503
El Segun do No. 507
Cuper tino No . 510
Cahue nga No. 513
Argon ne No, 514
Euclid No. 519
Piedmon t !lo. 521
Ceo.W ashing ton No.5 25
Bay City No. 526
Coven ant No . 527
Henry M. Steoh ens 541
Sii<na l No . 543
San Ga brie l No.54 6
Lakes hore l/o. 5 5 l
Se mper Viren s No.552
Poi nt firmin !lo. 558
E. San Diego No. 56 1
S. W, Hacke tt No, 574
El Cajoh Va lley No .576
Progre ssive No . 578
Santa Maria No . 580
Secur ity No , 581
Comr ass No. 590
Tu junga No. 592
Servi ce lio. 594
Alex.G raham Bell No.59 5
Guard i a n No . 596
Dimon d No . 603
Jubile e No. 604
Provid ent No . 609

Neptu ne No . 619
River side No . 63 5
Palisa des No. 637
Indian Rock No. 638
Alta Loma No. 5q3
A.f. E. Irwin No.64 5
Damas cus No. 6~8
La Brea No. 650
Ma lta No, 661
Kawea h No . 665
San Gor?,on io 668
far \vest No. 673
Los Cerri tos No.67 q
Wi ll ow Glen Ho . 676
Dos Pa los No, 681
Alban y No . 686
San Carlo s No, 690
I ndian lvells Val. 69 1
San Loren zo Val. 718
Es tero No . 719
Miner al Ki ng No.72 0
llome No . 721
St, John' s No . 725
Penin sula No. 745
Merce d No, 749
Golde n Bowl No , 755
Clayt on Valley 756
We s t Covin a No, 750
J osiah W.Rol le r 761
Coa stside Ho. 762
Te jon No. 773
Haiki ki No . 774
Ro lli ng Hills 781

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

355

GENE RAL APPE NDIX

CONT ENTS
Page

Standi ng Commi ttees ---····-·············· ························---·-·-·······-·····-·········
356
Special Committees ...................... .......................................................
. 359
C onstitutional Boards ..........................................................................
361

Mason ic Homes ....................................................................................

362

California Mason ic Templ e..................................................................

363

Directo rs Mason ic Clubho uses ..............................................................

363

Registr ation and Mileage Payments ....................................................

364

List of Constituent Lodge s..................................................................

.. 387
Extinc t Lodges, Including Consol idation s ............................................
403
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organi zation ........... ...................
404
List of Inspec tors ...........................;........................................... ...........
.. 41 1
Foreig n Grand Lodges..........................................................................
415
Alphab etical List of Lodges..................................................................
420
Corres ponden ce Report Annou ncemen t.. ........... .................................
427
Index ............................................ .......................................................

... 428

356

PROCEEDINGS OF 1'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

196 5-1 966
STA ND ING CO MM ITT EES

PAY OF MEMBERS
Matthew
Codon (42)
Arc.her R. M.
Rich~r
dson ( 185")::~::::::::::::::::::: ::·::··· 530 Ros.smore Ave ., Los ?-ngeles 90005
Ward H. F1ggms (301) ...........
..
· ···············-····-···-·-·:······..Stewarts Point 95480
Thom as F. Mason ( 198)
....................... 1038 West Prmce
ton St., Ontari o 91762
Harry M. Jenks (778) ···- ··---·--··--·--·········------ 22 0 No.
Glendale Ave., Glendale 91206
Harold Greenspan (42) ....::::·.-.·_-_-_-_:::::······--·····-· 16038 E.
Sumrn ershade, La Mirad a 90638
Eugene C. Dunham (450)
......................... 1100 S. C~rk
Los Ang eles 90035
-···--···-···----······-····--·····--··-6030 LmdleDr.,
y Ave., Encino 91316

JUR ISPR UDE NCE
Wakefield T aylor (41 )----------····---···········--··············---.12
70 Escob ar St., Martine:z: 94553
Louis C. Drape au (633 l ---·-··--·- ----····-·---········· -········-·
-.500 Sunset Ave .. O ak View 93022
Leo E. Ander son (355) ..------··-· ······--··-··------····.500 Mobil
Oil Bldg .. Los Angeles 90017
Henry C. Clausen (630) ................ ---------·····-·-·23 V
an Ness Ave.. San Francisco 94102
Joe L. Shell (35) .....................................................4.......
2858 Kalmia Pl.. San Diego 92104
E lmer W . Heald (384) .---·--········-···-- --·····--------·--·····1005
Elbert W. Davis (57 1) ····-····· ·-----·-··------········--···--·-·-··---29W ensley St., El C entro 92243
08 Russell St.. Berkeley 94705
Harlan P. Huebner ( 445) ······------··-·--···· ·······-··--··610
S. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Allen B. Gresham (348)--------·· ·········--··---···3028 Muscu
piabe Dr., San Bernardino 92405

POL ICY AND GEN ERA L PUR POS ES
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ·--·-·----·---·-··-------------·-·-· 1415
Ira W. Cobur n (216)-----····----·····-----····--------···-·2440 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasad ena 91103
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528)--------·····-----·-· ·-·····--··--------·6Marip osa St .. San Francisco 94110
23 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 90017
Theod ore Meriam ( 111) ········---·-·····-----·--·····-···--·---··
Richard H . Chamberlain (521 l ---··--··- -·-·------·····-···.5···----713 Arbut us Ave., Chico 95926
300 Harbord Dr.. Oakla nd 94618
Rober t B. Watts (518) ..-······-·-·············-····--·-··············794
Harry B. Keeling (662) ······-··· ·················-··· ·-·······--765 9 Princess St., La Jolla 92037
Albert J. D ay (392) ·······-····-··--··· .. ····-················ ··-.585 So. Harva rd, Los Angeles 90005
3 W . 6th St.. Los Angeles
Rober t J. Paroli (651 ) ---········ ···-··············--·-·········· ···-······40 Selby Lane. Atherton 90036
94025

FINA NCE
Guy B. Mi:z:e (468) ---·······- ··-···--··- ···············--·--······· 1238
Alfred H. Nicoll (481) -··--·-··· -····-·----·········2 3370 Camin Idlewood Rd .. Glendale 91202
o Hermoso, Los Altos Hills 94022
James E. Hammond (568) ......................
...- ---···-·····.151 Grame rcy Dr., San Mateo
94102
Victor Howa rd (780) ..................... .....211 Quadr
io Dr., Pacific Palisades 90272
John A. Sickenberger (392) ..............................357o Vecch
So. Curso n Ave., Los Angel es 90036
G. Douglas Thompson ( 134) ·····-··· ····-····· ······················
··P- 0 . Box 267, Vacaville 95688
0. Max Offley (794) ·····---······-··-············· ·----··-.1
522 No. Roosevelt St., Pasadena 91101

GRI EVA NCE S
Albert C. Wollenberg (344) .---····-··-·--··-·-········U. S.

District Ct., 450San
Golde
n Gate
Ave ..
Franci
sco 94102
Willia m B. Neele y (743) ··········· --·--··-·······-·······----·-··1
429
Virgin
ia
Ave.,
Glendale 91202
Folger Emerson (61) ··-·-····-··········- ············-············--200
Harold S . Morrison (450) ................................. .14615 1 Magellan Dr., Oakla nd 94611
Magno
lia
Blvd
.. Van Nuys 91403
A. J. McCo urtney (437) ......---··--···
·---·····--····.321 Lago Lindo Dr., Palmdale 93550
Lowell H . Sucherman (136) ...........···---····
.............300 Montg omery St., San
Francisco 94104
Walte r W. Powers (579) ................---···"·-·--·--.. --·--·-17
0 Baxte r Ave .. Sacram ento 95815

CRE DEN TIAL S
Don E. Berry (568) .....................
-----·-··- ···········------------··---P- 0. Box 208, Lodi 952·H
Emil W. Trefts (38) .......... ..................
...............................126 Dake Ave., Santa
Cru:z: 95062
Harry F. Lutticken (166) .....................................
.1611 ~7th Ave .. San Francisco 94122
Wm. Rex Hoover (672) ...........................................
.........
Lyle C . Hall (758) ........... ..... ---------- --········ ···352 W. Box 931. La.Buna Beach 92652
Bennett No. C. Glendora 917~
Robert W. Reyno!& (20) ......................
..........6401 Chetw ood Way, Sacramento
95822
Kenneth E. Diffee ( 198) ······- ·· ····-·-····-····--···.1606
Raven na Ave., Wilmington 90744

357

CHA RTE RS
Phillipt B.
Rober
A. Stone
Smith (727)
(426f:.·.--···------···--···--·-·····--·····-·--·····--1007 Bethan y Rd
.. Burbank 91504
Kenne th L. Hemphill (728f ....................
........... .................... .429 Center St., Taft
93826
Wayne E . Burk (316) ..........·.-_:::·.·_-_·_·.·.·.·_-_-----·-···--····- 1360
Newp ort Ave., Long Beach 90804
Robert 0 . W est ( 26) __
················--·-- ··-····24
Martin Ortlieb ( 35) .....::::::::::::::::··················--·-·--·····-·--·P 8 S. McCall Rd., Sange r 93657
.O. Box 752. Placerville 95667
Frank B. Peebles (556) ..
................................. ..2889 Palm
St., San Diego 92104
31
John L. Shaw (805) .......::::::::::
·········-- --····· Mayw~ Way. San Rafael 94901
Alfred T . Gruening (445 )..........::::::::::
. --·······-· ···i~~-4E5 E . Cal~ita St .. San Gabriel 91775
0
Edgar_ R. Kent (575) ................. ::_::::·············-· lymp1c
.. Los Angeles 90015
Ouent m H. Cunningham
(328.
...................... P.O. Box 14.Blvd
River Mills 96028
··········--···················· ·----16927 ElgarFall
Ave., Torran ce 90504

BY-LAWS
VlidrlenBeJnne
hoff son
( 1) ···-----···
. Fulker
(35) ······ ·--··-·---- ········-·· --· 3701 D'ivisa
. d ero S t., San Francisco 94123
A
Charles H . Grace (635) -··········--···········-·········--·····-···········
-3205 Poe St.. San D iego 921 06
Robert A .. Wertsch (22f·_-_-_-_-_·_·_·_·_·_-_-_·_·_·_-··_·············9()'s.....
421~ Highland Pl., Riverside 92506
Joh? J. OCon nor (3) ........... ....... ·· ··-··········
an B.em~o Way, San Francisco 941 27
Emile W. Roggy (479) ................····--···········-·-- -4512
L1pp1 Parkw ay, Sacramento 95823
Mert:z: L. Pennington ( 538) ......... ::::::·····················- 1505
eras _Ave., San Jose 95126
..................... 10222 Calav
San Gabrie
l, South Cate 90281

COR RES PON DEN CE
George W. Burch , Jr. (650) __________ _______
John
Wullschleger (260) .......
.
-·---·-···· ···-··:;··---417 S. Hill
St., Los Angel es 90013
Maurice B. Ross ( 35) ............:.::::·_::::::··-··--··---···-··· 8""IO
San
Mateo
Dr .. Menlo Park 94026
Ralph T . Merriam (272) ........ ..
·-·····--····-··-·--··-·····--·3040 Udal St., San Diego 92106
Fred W . Morris (39i) .......... ..:...-.·_-:·.--·--·········-·--·-·····.l
l 20 E . Wood bury,
na 91104
A. Ellsworth Larson (519) ....
· ....................:i308 PalrnE'ro Blvd .. LosPasade
Angeles 90008
Edwa rd G. Freeman (435) ____-_-_·_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_······-··-·····--·- ---1600
2 S. Menlo Ave., Garde na 90247
··-······· ····-······ ··340 Naple
s St., San F rancis co 94112

GRA ND LODGE WEE K ACT IVIT IES
Willia
Ornum
(374)..............
JosephmF.Van
. onsm
Garrio
. St
tt (630)
·---······· -···--.7 4~ ~hsc.
.. San Francisco 94107
Low~ll H. Beckendorf
19tb
Ave., San F rancisco 94132
393
e~me J. Katz (120)..................... ......
0
········--····j
rtega St .. San Francisco 94122
Phil Bovero (374) ··-····················---······_-_---····-··-········ 86 .._
""I
Ave .. San F rancisco
Perry Lawson (462) ...........
.............. ...................2222 -- 28th
39th Ave .. San Francisco 94122
94116
Edwm C. Mathisen (360)
-·----·-·· --·---···· --.1978- 46th Ave., San Fran
·
Emmett Bundy (554) .......
Doug las St., San
Edwa r? W. Quon (673) .............. :::::····· ·····--·--·····
Frederick A. Wilson (356) ........... ...:··--··-------······--.7SO -40th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Grant Ave., San F rancisco 94108
Roy W 1eland (454) -------------------······---····-------- ········-·····-~06 - 4th St .. Sausal
ito 94965
$!~orge P. Silliman (494) ............-_----------···----·-·-··.426La
Qllmta s Dr.. San Francisco 94132
v.:org e L. Jae.obs (216)
30
··-·······
··········----""I
Edgewood A ve. Oakl d 94
Arthu r D. En (470) ..............................................
Sutter St., San
an
g
602
......................................... ...........450
11 26 Clay St .. S an 'Fr
F ranc.isc
ancisc.o
o 941
94108
()CJ

B

(4.62)·::.·::::::::::::::::::·········-···· 8 i·

-.-.-_-_-_~_-_-_-_-_-_· · ···-·--···-···--····-- j}g27

Fran~:~~ §!U~

GR AN D LODGE OP CA
E
PRO CEE DIN GS OP TH

358

LO DG E FI NA NC IN G

es 90057
-B S. Reno St., Los Angel
ding 96101
..... ...... ...... ..... .............318
Red
....
St..
.....
0)
rnia
(32
lifo
en
Ca
6
Gre
A.
231
Ma rk
ncisco 94104
..... ..................... ........... .........
Ge org e W . Stu nn (254)........... .. ... ................ ..... IOOO Mills Building. SanVFra
Nu ys 9140 1
n
a
.....
St.,
......
on
)
pst
435
(
Cum
se
Iva n Cra
lan d 94612
..... ........... ................13403
...
Oak
......
..
g
9)
Bld
(52
n
are
ma
Squ
Sus
in
Benjam
................ ......904 Latham.... 38 York Dr.. Piedmont 94611
.....
.....
......
)
188
(
Sea
F.
Sid ney
... ...........
................ . ...... ...... ............
St., Sou th Pas ade na 91030
Joseph F. Jensen (462) ......
...... ..... ................. 1913 Ox ley
.....
.....
2)
(32
bie
Cormic k St .. Enc ino 91316
Hig
Mc
.
~!mer S
........... ................ ... 17 136
....
.....
.....
......
0)
(52
. 20th St.. Me rced 95340
W
en
Samuel Ros
..... ..... ........... ............ .552
......
......
.....
.....
)
(99
rett
Bar
George C.

NE CR OL OG Y

ga 95070
Me ndelsohn Lane. Sar ato
...................... .......... 201303M Sar ato ga Ave .. Los Ga tos 95030
......
6)
(34
rten
Mo
B.
am
.....
Ad
) ...... ...... ..... ................ ...... 2040 Da yto n Dr .. Lemon Gro ve 92045
Ray mo nd J. Fis her {292.....
............... ...... .......... ...... ........806 Piute St.. Bakersfield 93309
6)
(73
e
Rif
E.
m
lli;i
\Vi
94116
..... ................. .......... ...... .....
.....
5)
(69
e
slc
40t h Ave .. S an Fra ncisco
H,n
D.
Jack
...... ........... ................2200 ......
......
......
.....
)
(22
tit
Pet
Jac k

RI TU AL

958 19
...5260 K St., Sacramentoy 95948
...... ...... .......... ................. ......
dle
......
Gri
)
,
{20
682
ds
Box
har
I.
Ric
te
N.
Rou
ld
..
.....
H ;iro
o 95819
0) ...... ..... ................. ............
932 - 42nd St., Sac ram ent
Cla re B. Ca mpbell (23.....
.. ..... ..... .......... ................. ...nte rey Blvd .. San Francisco 94127
.....
3)
(61
en
Lem
P.
Mo
Fra nk
ne 95379
.... . ...... ................. 1200......
..... P. 0. Box 631. Tuolum
\.'./illiam F. Poy nte r (54)5)
es 90008
.... ........... ....... ...........
gel
..
An
.....
Los
(391
..
Dr
ke
or
Fis
rad
H.
e
Mi
·wa llac
...... ...... ..... ... ... .5251 El ion Bank Bldg .. Ora nge 92668
......
.....
)
636
(
r
gle
Cri
A.
, Un
Rob ert
.... ............ ........... .S uite 400
\V. Ben Sorrells (672) ......

M AS ON IC HI ST OR Y

de 92502
.... P . 0 . Box 507. Riv ersi
................................. ..... ..... tola Par k W est. San Bruno 94066
Por
,
By ron C. Mo rton (259) .....
se 95969
........... ..200 Lake Dr.
..........530 Bille Rd., Paradi
Paul Co wg ill ( I) .................
...... ................. ...... ............
erly Hills 90211
......
.....
Bev
)
,
124
Or.
(
ton
lett
mil
Gil
Ha
R.
.
S
il
Bas
.......................... .... 219 ......2777 Rt>g al Av e., R,d din g 96001
Phillip L. Goldstein ( 42) ......
........... ........... .................. ....
oa, Ma ui 96732
Wi llia m W . Glidden (2)............... ........ ................ R.R . Box 40- D, Wa iakFra
ncisco 94127
......
2)
San
,
(47
Dr.
e
o
Do
olim
E.
M
ert
Rob
................ ............ ...... ..... .131
Francisco 9'1121
0)
San
(26
..
e
son
Av
der
h
An
37t
F.
740
ter
.
Les
........... ................. . ..... ......
Leon 0. Whitsell* (293)

PU BL IC SC HO OL S

ay, Los Angeles 9001'1
............ ......610 So. Broadw
an
irm
Cha
),
445
(
870. Ma rtinez; 94554
er
Box
ebn
Her ber t A. Hu
an........... ...... ..... ...... ...... ......
airm
Ch
e
Vic
,
Ave ., Fre sno 93728
41)
(
o
rd
Ch arle s C. Lai
..... ........... ............ 1364 Ech
......
.
.....
......
....
......
Pas o Robles 93'146
7)
,
(24
233
Geo rge E. Hia tt
... ..... .P. 0. Box
..... ...... ................ .... ...........
100, El Centro 92243
Box
0.
P.
..
......
......
Ear l Va n Vo rst (286) 1)
.....
.....
96821
................. ......
Puamamane St.. H ono lulu
No rbe rt P. Tester (38 .....
..... ... ...... ............ ........... ...319
Ave., Na pa 94558
tro
Cen
El
2
133
....
Cur tis N. He en (37 1 ) .....
......
.....
.......... ........... ......
Angeles 90039
Rolland F. Atw~ (12) .....
.... 3920 Legion Lan e, Los
2) ..... ...... ..... ............ ......922
., Northridge 91324
Ave
k
Oa
ite
Wh
1
Richard H. Dutw1ler (62
..
An geles 90043
...... ..... ...... ..... ...... ......
Franklin C. Potter (666)...... ...... ............ ...... ............ .. 4680 W . 63r d St., LosAlhambra 91801
ta,
Vis
rra
Sie
16
8
.....
Edw in N. Stanse l (421)......
......
......
............................
Angeles 90047
Pet er B. Florio (42) ..... ...... ................ ...... .........915 0 S. Den ker Av e., Los San
Jose 95125
an,
ridi
Me
0
190
..
......
......
John R. No cas (537) .....
.....
..... ..... .......... ...... ......
Bernardino 92401
San
e,
Lan
e
Tre
per
Ro wa n W . Scott (479)).....
Pep
2
sco 94123
...... ..... ...........299
1 Fillmore St .. San Franci
Ho llis G . Har tley ( 348 ......
...... ..... ....................... ..... 350
Cly de M. Stine (560) .....
*Emeritu.s

LIF OR NIA

359

TE ES
SP EC IA L C O M M IT
N
M AS ON IC ED UC AT IO ·

2
.. O akland 94602
(360) ······ ·· ..... ............ ...... ........... ..... 915 Flo nda St ple Cit y 91780
nt
Oli pha
D. Lee
ry C.
Henvid
Tem
2)
..
e
(49
Av
Da
....9965 Wo odr uff s Ave ., Fresno 93704
· ······· ..... ......
ij' ···· ····· ·····
Edw ard L. Kellas 124
................ ....... 834 E. Alamo
......
······
·····
)
(6r
ck
~o 94127
7
Go rdon F. Bla
Wa y. San Franci
93
-···· 15 Da rienBox
We ave rv.11le 96002
,
:::::::::::::·· ·:··· ······
..
::
486
::::::
..
)~
....
(27
......
lsen
......
.....
Pau
............
Art hur
6, Redding 960
) ........... ..... ... ..... .....··......
.............. P. 0. Box 193
......
.....
41
Albert F. Ro ss {27
920
sa
4?84 Jackson Dr .. La Me
R. Wa yne Fill ot (407)
77
........................... .................
Dr., Sou th Lag una 92605
ean
ibb
Car
21
Wi llia m J. Wifiiams ()68 ......
325
...
.....
......
924
.....
ino
.....
ard
......
5)
Bem
San
178
,
(
k
Dr.
n
Edg erto
For res t H. Kec
.... ······ ·····..... ...... ..............306

CO NS TI TU TI ON OB SE

RV AN CE

20420
94546
4) Ch a ir
St..DCasLtroMValle ya 906
i-42 52 sa/~m ed_a
Ear l Patterson, Jr. (49
38
e-C~~;;;;;~~·····
Vic
r.. a iradgo 92104
8)·.
no
(77
rcra
e
mer
Rie
c
L.
d
har
····
Ric
1)
5 ~ 32nd St., San Die
233
....
......
Wr ede Jr · (56
......
......
......
......
Edw ard W Ha
21
.....
.
ulu 968
ai (409 .
.5634 Haleola St., Honol
Cha rles L.
······························· ··········· ···--·
09
Ora n W . Palnfer (581 /_0. ~ox 218, Ke m Cit y 933
10
lo 93064
aril
..
Cam
1)
e,
(34
Lan
er
na
mp
Ma
Mu
.
100
E
Car l
····· ······--··
Box 507, Samoa 955
.......:::.:: :::·:· ::····
0.
...
P.
.....
.
.....
).
......
(50
.....
ler
......
stel
.....
Ma
95203
John H.
7)
t St., Stockton 946
Cha rles N. Clarkson (75 ····· ····· ····· ················· ····· · 1602 W. Wa lnuAv
03
e., Oa kla nd
494
7 Longfellow
993
Ca rth
......
.....
......
Ho wa rd L. Mcw
......
04
.....
954
a
......
)
Ros
(
ta
San
57)
(
.,
Ave
Da
d
McDo nal
Denma n C.
··········· ········· ············;: .925
Angeles 90019
Ala n B. Bodle (623) ················ ······ ····· ........58::>4 San V1.cen~e Blvd., Los
ambra 91803
Alh
,
S)··
Dr.
(52
ll
rd
khi
Jac k B. Crawf~
......... · ····2404 Midwte
.....
.....
··
·····
······
uro n 94920
).
Tib
(22
e.,
Av
ten
Do nal d L. Bat
····· ·········29 Me rcu ry .. Carmichael 95608
(4·99·)······················ ···········
Dr
ren
Cla
Mc
'1
162
..
Raymond A. Ebb a e ......
......
92274
·.·.·.·.·.·.--·· ........... ......
P. 0 . Box 236 , Th erm al
Rob ert Ha er ( 47 6l 9)......
···· ····· ··· ············ ...............
93401
spo
O~i
s
Lui
n
Sa
..
Dr
C. He rold ~re or (20
ert
213 Alb
, Gn dley 94958
. ..·.·_·:::::::.-:.-· :::::::::::.:··...........
............ ...... ....Rt. 1. Box 618
Ma rvin G. Sto~e ~23d0)(42
0)
Ke.rman 93630
ge.
brid
ites
He nry W O
Wh
W.
15267
7, 01ldale 93308
::::..·.·:. ·:::.··:·····--......
551
:::::
.....
Box
.
•....
0
..
3)
P.
...
{~7
......
t~e
.....
Smi
· .....
Louis B.
San Jose 95125
Syl ves ter J. Gorm n (676) ····· ································· ·· 1898 Glen Un a A ve.,
a

1

::::::::::::::::::··· · ····························p·

De M OL AY
St Ap t · 1101 · S an F rancisco 94111
················ ···········560 Bat tery6 R~
) ·····
95818
(22
bell
y Sr .GKim
RLa
crtson W ay , Sacramento
. Bruno (499) ii)·· ····· ······ ··········· ··········· 140
este
91203
le
nda
(36
Gle
..
n
ve
hbu
nt A
Ho me r E . Rat
········--· ····· ···.743 Fai rmo
Jose 951 JO
6) .....·.:·.::·.·_·:.·.·.·.:·.·.·.·.·.:·.··-·
.~89 Regent St.. SanBea
.....
......
.....
......
Har old S . Me do (67
··
·····
ch 90740
( 315)
L.W.. Sea l
W ende II M. Ander son
.. l 4S3K Golden Ram Rd ..
.....
......
.
15
.
9)
go
(43
Die
alen
let~ Dr. San geles 921
Fra nk H . Wh
··"39667.5~84 HewSta
90039
·.·.·.·.:·.·_-_-_·_·:·r:'(5 · ·s···
.
·
·.·
, Los An
...
tion
......
4)
th
(38
nffi
on
·
Dix
l
16
rrel
968
Da
· ox
·
i St.. Honolulu
k (801)
..................... .t 437.3 ~un ;1ka
Art hur J. Pancoo
05
......
933
......
.....
ield
.....
)
ersf
4
(22
Bak
St.,
blin
l
Lai
27
Ga rfie ld G .
··················· 09 Occidenta
·····
··
······
06
·····
948
ond
5)
hm
(70
29 Ox for d Av e .. Kn~lls, Ric
John L. Wi xon
W 1tt St., San ger 93657
·.·.:·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.:·.:·.:·_·_-_·.·.:·:·.··.:··......08
.
.·
De
8
6f:·
171
(31
.....
Jr.
......
en,
.....
Gre
J.
Leo
le 91208
ada Blvd., Glendaez
91554
Grovt>r Wh ite (66 1) ······ ····· ····· ····· ······ ··········· ····-··· 2990 Can
........ P. 0 . Box 15, Ma rtin
......
......
......
......
.....
Ern est C. We bb (41)°···
......
.....
............

CO LU M BI A TE M PL E

ne 95379
ox 603, Tuolum
1)
Arc her (391)
····· ·········-· ······-··-B
Alameda 94501
Wi llia m D.Jur
·········-· ····· ······.....
St.,
k
······
Par
······
42
9
(49
.....
s
......
gen
......
Geo rge A.
...... ..... ...... ...... ..... ......
76
A. T. K.iersch (236)
erly Pl., Tra cy 95321
··········-143 We st Bev
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·····
::::::
.::::
)
..... Box 2~4. Altav11lep 952
......
......
......
.....
......
.
John A. Kirby (76rt,
09
953
....
........... ......
·Chinese Cam
Do nal d M. Ste wa Jr. (8)
················ ··········· ····-·····--·-··

360

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

TAXA TION

OLD MASO NIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES

San Francisco 94127
Alexander L. Croce (354 >------·····-----·············333 Santa Clara Ave.,
817, Oakland 94604
Box
0.
····P.
-····-·····-··
··--················--·····
·--····---··-Robert R. York (349)
San Francisco 94121
W . Stanley D avis ( 144) ............................................678 ·26th Ave.,

361

So
)
Benjamin M. Weiss (42
1491 · Rexford Dr., Los Angeles 90035
Heroert Hargra ve, Jr. (467f... .......................
IOS Verna Ave., V an N uys 91402
·······-----B
·················--·········
Lloyd E . Parker (666) ..............
.............. ................ 17545 Roscoe Blvd. , Northrid ge 9 1324

COMM ERCI ALISM

BOAR D OF LIBRA RY COMM ISSIO NERS

Apt. 5, Daly City 940 15
V incent P. M cMurdo (454) ........................ IH Crestwood Or.,Madison
, El Cajon 92021
E.
965
......
..............
..............
..............
)
(296
Braasch
A.
Willard
Angeles 90014
Los
St.,
7th
W.
JO
······2
········---·----···········
·····-·······H arvey Harkness (506)
St.. Los Angeles 90013
Albert R. Bennison (382) ·····-·······--····---········-······---408 S o. Spring
Court, Orinda 94563
James J. Dalton (403) ·------------· ····--·········-···········-···············--.3 Bel Air

David R. Lane (638) .........
St., Berkeley 94707
William H. Scott (435 ) k;;i.. Lib ·····:········iffa····k:··-1155 Oxford
Francisco 94127
San
y.
W~
mgham
uc
...
rian.
ra
......
:
.........
.
'
(624)
Russell G. W orth
Oakland 946 18
Merlin W . Drucquer (573)...... .................................5278 M am!a Ave.,
94708
Be~keley
Rd.,
Hills
Park
····--l036
··············
:::::·········
........
(571}
z
Joseph A. Pivernet
Kensmg ton 94707
Rd.,
e
Ardmo~
JO
···
··············
··············
)
(541
Jr.
.
Bellman
C. John
···························· ···················--.546 Neilson St., Berkeley 947071
R. E. Giesin (226)
·····-······················ ·455 W . Ellswor th Court, San Mateo 9440
74)3
Jr.".(".
Stein,
S.
Harold
................................ ! 777 Eucalyp tus Dr., San Francisco 94 132

RETIR EMEN T PLAN
Palo Alto 94301
L. Harold Anderso n (346) .............. ....................................2231 S. Court, Francisc o 94104
San
St.,
Sutter
--111
-·-·---·····-··············
·-----········
)
Alfred F. Breslauer (344
··········M ills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
Pa ul A. Pflueger ( 370) ····--·······-------------········-----···Point
Lobos Ave .. San Fra ncisco 94121
Phil N . Myers (430) .............. .............. ............20
28th Ave .. Sa n Francisco 94122
844
.1
...
..............
..............
..............
)
Paul F. Balck ( 1'11

SOJO URNE RS
Pa loma, San Clemente 92672
D ovid H. Blakelock (671) ............................ ............ 255 Laalisades
Rd .. San Diego 92116
Ben T . Salmon (632) ................................................41 JO P
611 Bonita Ave., Berkeley 94709
John Richmond (541) ·············· ·············· ·················-······.1
. Andrews, Fresno 93726
\Va llace F. Powers (530) ..................................................2822oESt.,
Kailua, Hawaii 96734
Joseph P. Dennehy (801 ) ............................ ........ 190 Makawa \ Vay,
Santa Rosa 95405
James L. Durnfor d (57) .............. .............. ....................657 Ka ren Juan Dr.. Salinas 93902
W. George Mossier (204 ) ................................................ 137 San
Granada Hills 91 344
M errill E. Balser (790) .............. .................. 11226 H ayvenhu rst St., Ave .. Modesto 95350
Clyde Prickett ( 206) ....................................................... .526 Covena
Luis Obispo 9340 1
E verett L. Coyle (530) .............. ................................875 Rongeot, San San G abriel 9 1775
G len E. Irwin (685} .......................................... ....8237 E. Santa Ynez.
Los Angeles 90066
George W. Pike (307) ............................ 3181-F So. Barring tondAve.,
Ave., Hollywo od 90038
Don H. LaGrang e (566) .............. .................... 1139 N. Highlan
18, Los Angeles 90036
George H. H imes (602) .............. ............................ ..............Box 365
San Fernando 91340
J. Kenneth Sava ge (343) ....................................... .806 N. Brand St., Rd., San Jose 95 111
Leo B. M ark ( 10) .............. ........................................... .5980 M onterey
Santa Barbara 93103
\ Villiam W . Pitkin (192) ......................................515 Chiquita Rd.,
Box 84. Stockton 95201
W esley A. Simard ( 19) ....................................................................
3 1, Honol ulu 96731
Georg e F. Gieser (443) ........................................................ P. 0. Box

INSU RANC E
Sa n Francisco 94104
T . James Carlile (215) ..........................................1 Montgo mery St.,
Berkeley 94707
A llerton B. E bert (489) ..- ..............................._...........826 Ensenad a Ave.,

CEME TERIE S
Carmel V alley 93924
Ballard White, Jr. ( 139 ) ............................................ P. 0. Box 234,
Sacramento 95822
Ave.,
28th
1149..
..............
..............
..............
(3)
er
Schroed
C.
Harold
Creek 95685
Sutter
I,
Box
0.
P.
..
..............
..............
..............
..............
174)
(
Taylor
Adr ian
ora 95370
······-Son
··················
·····················
··············
Marcel M. Baer (8) ·-················-·········
Glendor a 91740
G. Basil Gordon, Jr. (404) .............. .............. ..........._140! S. Grand Ave.,

PUBL IC INFO RMA TION
William H. Adams (363) ....
····-6353 W ood Dr., Oakland 94611
Hamilto n H intz (3 ) .............. .-.:·······························--······
254
Sacrame nto 9581 8
Norman Robert Davis (21) ······························· 8 Marsha ll Way,
. Box 509 1. H onolulu 96814
W ilmer G. Brill (240 ) .........::::::::::····································P. 0·p·
0 . Box 89, Colusa 95932
·············· ····························
Glendall W . McDerm ott (57)
!016. V alle10 St.. Santa Rosa 95404
Walter C. Schafer (400) ... . ............................1 .......
1 ~loribunda Ave .. Burlingame 940JO
7
Hugh J. Cameron (650) ..... :::··········· ·······;fr,f s··0 · ~ roa
way, Rm. 4JO, Los Angeles 90013
··················
Kern H. Copeland (535)
16
Sherbou rne Dr.. Los Angeles 90048
S.
William E. S. Jarrett (36af ··························-A
9 Arch Pl., Glendale 91 206
Richard D. Crowe (68 1} ····················-·······-······················.52
···································-··········1 814 Blossom St., Dos Palos 93620

CON STIT UTIO NAL BOA RDS
ENDO WME NT BOAR D

~!~~A?J~~~~~Ofj99y::::·.::::::~::::::·················-- H6 A_m~sbury

3
Rd., H ollywood 90027
4201 T ········----~---.417 Nmita Pa rkway, Pasadena 9 11 06
J. Glen Gladson (542 )
nyoo Blvd., 1_04 W oodland Hills 91364
Kent Seymour (356) ...:::::::::: ........... opanga
94941
·········--.525 Summit Ave., M ill Valley 95405
Charles F. Minetti (57) ................... :::···········
...................... !536 Raegan Ave., S anta Rosa
Cha rles Ratkovich (268)
·············· ····--2954 Shasta Rd .. Berkeley
Frank R. Porath (442) ··········································
San Diego 92102
Hersche l E. Griffin (50Sf.................................................. 1536 Dale St.,
Santa Ana 92701
St.,
Camile
E.
6!3
·············George C. Poloynis (773 ) :::····-····················
.685 Magnolia, Bakersfl eld 93305
Norman W . Shaw, Jr. ( 19) .:~::::.~::::~:-·········- ··--..............E
Stockton 95205
Charles Becker (341 ) ........_............... ....................5H9 . Marada Lane,
San Francisco 94080
South
thouse,
······Cour
::::::::······
.......
..............
(789)
Wilson
K.
James
-·-··-960 Castec ~r.. Sacramento 95825
M. Edward Allred (366)...................... ·····················-······-----2 12 2 Eas~ Austm W ay, Fresno 93726
George P. Calderwood (327 )
Long Beach 90807
George Q. E vans (273 ) ..... - ..~:::::::::::······· · ········---645 East Bixby Rd.,
Compton 90224
5218,
Box
0.
·
···p
··············
.--·-········
....
..............
..............
188)
(
Wm. Geha
............................ .~08 1·39th A ve .. O akland 9-4608
Georg e E. Berresford (306)
··········- ·······-- P. 0 . Box 710, Redlands 92374
John L. Taylor (241 ) ..........._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-.-·············
...............................608 E. 20th S t., Santa Ana 92 706
Robert L. Wing ( JO }.
l86 Lincoln A ve., San Jose 95125
Robert D. Lintner ( J69f···· ··························- ···········--2
o 94 116
·············· ··· 208 ~ • 33rd A ve., San Francisc
Marvin R. Andrews (2·ii")······ .. ··············
................................ 1000 Via Tranqui la, Santa Barbara 931 05

362

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

INVES TMENT
91104
Paul A. Pflueger (370) ....................................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 9106
1
Jack F. Bowley (370) .................. ..................511 Buena Vista Ave., Redwood City
L. Harold Anderson (316) .................. ................................ 2231 S. Court. Palo Alto 91301
91202
Guy B. Mize (368) ........................................................ 1238 Idlewood Rd., Glendale 90027
John M. Gordon (202) .................................... ........3146 Amesbury Rd .. Hollywood

BOARD OF CONTR OL
90014
Louis H. Mahler (577) .............................................. 1320 W. 77th St., Los Angeles 94610
Irving Magoes (225) ......................................................256 LaSalle Ave., Piedmont 91011
John Swan (667) .................. .................................... 2138 Teasley St., La Crescenta 92120
Norman E. Hale (574) ................................................6012 Lomond Dr .. San Diego 94026
Andrew Burke (549) .................. ....................................150 Arbor Rd., Menlo Park

RECOG NITION OF FOREIG N GRAN D LODGES
Leslie E. Wood (609) .................................... .................... 1808 "Q" St., Sacramento 95814
Angeles 90048
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (202) ....................6404 Wilshire Blvd., Los Sunland
91040
Reginald Bunce (542) ...........................- ............- .................7905 Cora St.,

CODE COMM ISSION
94611
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) .................................. 80 Woodland Way. Piedmont
95401
Edward T. Koford (57) ................Empire Bldg., 217 Exchange Ave., Santa Rosa 94501
David P. Russell (396) .................................... ............2230 San Jose Ave., Alameda 90802
Everett H ouser (504) ................................................ 260 Atlantic Ave., Long Beach 94121
Leonard S. Lurie (216) ............................................ 495 -32nd Ave.. San Francisco

TRUST EES OF MASON IC HOME S
T erm
Expires
Alto 94301
1967-L. Harold Anderson. President (346) .................. ..2231 S. Court, PaloIrvine
92664
John F. Porter. Vice-Presi dent (677) ........................P. 0. Box 4404,
94104
1966-Alfr ed F. Breslauer (314) ................................ 111 Sutter St., San Francisco
1967-Edg ar V. Stewart, Jr. (529) .................. 435 So. Curson Ave.. Los Angeles 90036
1968-Phi l N. Myers (430) ............................20 Point Lobos Ave., San Francisco 94121
Laurence E. Dayton (61) ................................5862 Moraga Ave., Oakland 946 11
Eug ene S. Hopp (260) .................. ...... 2000 Van Ness Ave., S an Francisco 91109
1966-Edw ard J. Blickfeldt (535) ............................. .590 Hargrave St., Inglewood 90302
1968-Donald G. Campbell (608) .................. .......... 2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 91108

MASON IC HOME FOR THE AGED
Union City, California
Telephone 471 -3434
Gail H. Da vid, Superintendent

MASO NIC HOME FOR CHILD REN
20336 East Badillo St.
Covina, California
Telephone 331-0541
Gail H. David, Acting Superinten dent

363

CALIF ORNI A MASO NIC MEMO RIAL TEMP LE
BOARD OF TRUST EES
Term
Expires
1968-Ral ph H. Head, Pres. (352)

nexS. Lops Angeles 90051
J MfialB1J
1967- Samuel l. Jacobs. Vice-Pres~(~6f°x 2282,9I
1s
g., an ranc1sco 91101
....... ______
Laurence E. Dayton (61)
62
Ave., Oakland 91611
Moraga
..................................58
John F. Porter (677)
(260)................................................. P. 0. Box 4401, Irvine 92661
Eugene S Ho
1966--T. Galt Atwo'/J. 454 .................. .... 2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94109
)45---------........................150 Sutter St. San Francisco 91108
1966--Che st R M p~
P~tto~c (22) ( 5 ) ..................1..................150 Fairway Dr.~ Novato 91947
1968- Lyle
9 Grand View Ave., San Francisco 91114
1967-How ard M. McKinl~--···(· i").................. ..........
245 Market St., San Francisco 94105
..................
Y

E

DIRE CTOR S

MAS ONIC

CLUB HOUS ES

Berkeley

. .

Willis H. Gillette, Pres. (560) ..........................24 S equoyah View Court Oakl d 9""60~
., J
an
·
E lton L · T urn er. v·ice- p res. ( 337)
.................
............... 243 Pomona Ave., Crockett 94525
Donald P. Hewlett, Treas. (403)
19
946
Oakland
ne.
La
Cat~y
23
........
Paul.S. Boren, S ecty. (551) ..........-.-.-.-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_------..........
akland 94602
Wilham T. Friborg, Asst. Secty. ( 568 ) ------------- ----1-0--..36.. 1B947 ~dlln Rd., O
a yv1ew A ve., Oakland 916 10
C. M. Davis (541) ................................... ....................
Benito Rd., Berkeley 94707
J. ~alter Proctor (349) ................. ........ :-----............... 900 San Athol
Ave .. Oakland 94606
........................... 166
Carlisle D. Nielsen (54 1)
Piedmont 946 11
Russell C. Horstmann (33-6 }' ................................ !831 Trestle Glen Rd.,
94609
W. H. Nuttin , Jr. (188) ..................................................560-57th St., Oakland
91611
E. A. Rienke (511) .. _ ............................................5616 Estates Drive, Oakland 91707
Alfred E . Hopkins (349')'--..................................................... 780 San Luis, Berkeley 94610
Edward H. Redford (481)......................................... 1002 Ashmount A ve., Oakland
Hillard M. Reeves (347 .......................................... l6 Brentwood Place, Oakland 94602
Ave .. Richmond 94804
Gene C. Otwell (705) ) ............................................ 2433 Downer
........................................................ 759 Creston Rd., Berkeley 94708

·

Berkeley Cfuh house
2590 B~ncroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Ja naice Kohl. Resident Hostess
Mrs. Mary Kierulff, Social Hostess

Los Angeles

326 N
S. Roy Howell, Pres. (662)
·Croft Ave., Los Angeles 90048
Bates Mason Vice-Pres (3ff)......... ......................
I 9003'
Heights Ave " Los An gees
Castle
3227
..................
·
S
•
.,
..
C · E are
1 C rane, ecty-Treas . (528)
2
Dr.. Beverly Hills 90210
Paul R. Nichols (662) ..................... ..................... ,., 7 N. Palm
91202
Glendale
Rd.,
............................?13 G lenwood
Frank H. Reinsch (677)
Los Angeles 90046
Clyde C. Shoemaker (566f_·_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-.-.·_·_·_-_-_-_-.-.-.-.-............... .1322 N. Gardner,
.. ................. I 17 W . 9th St.. Los Angeles 90014
A. Curtis Smith (618)..
2
Hills 90210
Beverly
Dr.,
Elm
Elvin C. Drake (677) .............................................. l l ~·
Edwin \V. Wad (5o4f .................. ................ IOl7 Cenhnela Blvd .. Santa Monica 90103
Marion A. Dunc!n (327f .................................... .-4l 55 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 90808
an dWoDr., LLong Beach 90807
George E. Hall ( 528) .......-.-.·_-_-j-Q9i'i"wii ;·i:;;;~-Bi~J 5~ ¢rm
" UJ e 111• est os Ang eles 90021
Frank Jenkins (528)
:/ 12 S. Peck Dr., Beverly Hills 90212
George Kussman (50i5L:::::::::_-_·_-::::::.·::--- -----6o8iXf
72
· 8 eachwood Dr .. Los Angeles 90004
........
Thomas Carroll (373)
Ave., Los Angeles 90066
Alfred E. Gra (506) .................. .......................... 3630 S. Barry Way,
Culver City 90230
..............................................5390 Blanco
Y

Los Angeles Clubhou se
10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles 90024
Mrs. Blanche Deaton, Director of Activities

364

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

REGISTR ATION AND MILEAGE PAYMEN TS
(All Brethren listed are Past Masters unless otherwise indicated)
No. of
Mile.
No. of
Mile.
lodge
Representatives
Allow Lodge
Representative~
Allow
$
19.... W . S. Orr, SW...................... 10.92
M · M
L C.CD~~king:-s
1....E
K: L:
"w"""""''
w . K. McMullio, JW
J. A. Jannuth, TW
N. W . S~aw, Jr.
H Mueller, GOrg.
W. A. Simard
E · C Lohmeyer Insp.
20.... R. V. Anderson. M................ ~t8:
\/. B~nnehoff '
R. W . Reynolds. SW.......... ..
J Hurst
R. W . Lenau, JW
O. E. Marsh
H. N . Richards, GL................ 12.04
J. F. McKay, Jr.
D. M. ~meron, lnsp............. 12.04
H . M. McKinley
J. J. Bastian
A Mosher
D . J. Morrow
H: W. Orear, Jr.
R. L. Zehrbach
S. C. Shenk
21....H. Hong. SW........................ 285.09
c. c. Trowbridge, Jr.
F. Bolte. ICsp ....M................... 285.09
22 ..
2....0. R. Sn">'.d er. JW.................. 3 1. 22
~iigt:'tsw
3....L. L. Ervm. M........................ 12·04
A Thomasian JW
T. J. Wardlaw, SW
L. Batten '
G. T. Donley, JW
R S. Kimbell
H . C. Schroeder
L. E . Patton
5 ...J. M. Neel, M ..SW................. 5.04
R. A. Wertsch
C. G. Carlson, W
23 .... A. O. Hansen, M.................... 20.02
\V . E . Driver, J
H. L. Rhodehamel. SW
0 . F. Carpenter, Iosp............
4.34
W. A. Jerdon. JW
8....R. H. Martin, ER.................... 18.34
E . Farley. fos p....................... 20.02
M. M. Baer
F. B. Sahl
D. M. Stewa rt, Jr.
24.. .. A. R. Weare. M.................... 23.10
9.... H. E. Covert, M...................... 16.80
J. Menzies, SW
_
W. L. Parmeter, SW
D. Kleiman. lnsp..................... 23 10
B. M. Fiske. JW
25 ....G. H. Armstrong. M.............. 19.32
10....R. L. Wing. M........................
7.00
J.C. Seiler, SW
R. T. Kelley, SW
L. B. Butt
R. M. Ford. JW
J. E . Walker
L. B. Mark
26.... D. P . Dassonv ille. SW.......... 18.48
12....J. C. Schneider, M.................. 6.58
W . H. Drain, JW
18.48
l<. D. Kinney. SW
J. A. Feth, Ins ........................ .
C. M. Evensen, JW
R. 0. West............... ............... 18.48
R. F. Atwood
27....A. G. Smith. JW.................... 36.96
C. Kernan
30....J. W. McClay. M
J. w. Leger
R. W. Moore.
13 W H Lambert, SW.............. 20.72
H. K. Widup. nsp.
.... H .·J. Keene
L. L. Aslanian
14....C . E. Maib, M..................... ... 6.30
R. HR. BGradlebey M
15.96
M E Nicoson SW
32 ....W. · rae r. ................. .
B. ·F. ·Badding. 'JW
A. Wil?berger, Jr .. SW
H O Downey
J. A. Kimmel. JW
J p Goddard
33....A. E. Rule. ER........................ 20.58
. H. w ·
1M
16 80
35 R A Williams, M.................. 73.08
16....C
R: A.' Ste:~:n·son;·j·w............
·
.... G.
Pled~er, SW
W. E. Marshall, lnsp............. 16.80
RP. Lech1ePnG.JMW
73.08
17.... H. Pardeilhan. M
J. L. Shell,
.................. ..
F. P. Lassalle. SW
S. F. Bolge~, Insp................... 73.08
A. Baylacq, JW
W . Feathenng11l
A. L. Armand, Insp.
A. J. Fulkerson........................ 73.08
A. P. Girerd
J. H. Leach
R. Malfanti
M. Orthe~ .............................. 73.08

··5-.16:

o:

[W

E:

18..

.J: ~~lt~es, ER.................... 27.16

i.JB~R~~~~~ ....................... 73.08

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
37.... P. 0. Hughes. SW..........·-··· H .38
G. S. Ward, Insp......- ........... H.38
38....W . R. Vernon. M................. . 10.08
R. G. Politte. SW
R. C. Johnson, JW
R. L. Mayfi1?ld
A. J. Thorp
E. W. Trefts......................... . 10.08
40 ....C. E. Clause, M ..................... . 12.04
W . 0. Wriqht. SW
J. E. Chick, JW
A. B. Collier, Insp ................. 12.04
41 .... D. A. Nelson. M ................... . 4.76
K. W. Knowles. SW
G. W. T aylor, JW
R. L. E vans
H. D. Lyford
W . T aylor ......................... ..... 4.76
E . C. Webb
42 .... M. C. Guss, M........................ 56.42
H. Greenspan, S\V
M. H . Poll11k. JW
M . M. Codon ........................ .. 56.42
E. A. Fromsky
P. L. Goldstein
J. D. Weisberg
B. M. W eiss
43....J. F. Mainzer, M ................... . 18.20
F. J. Wentz. SW
44 .... J. C. Hoffmann, M
J. W . Bradshaw, SW
E. L. Bostic, JW
G. M. Travis
45.... K. Bower, JW ........................ 51.66
46- P. Rogers. JW..L .................. . 12.60
50.... S. M. Grubbs, SW................ 23.80
51....W. M. Weber, SW............. . 19.04
L. R. C ranford. JW
E.W. Bedwell
T. Steel
55-G. 0. Harvey, SW.........____ _ 6.72
S. M. Emerson. JW
E. G. Long
56 .... H. H. Ward. ER .................... 20.02
51....
7.56
f~~/1w

L.'1:

..................

P. E. Marvin, JW
J. L. Durnford
C. E. Hoke
G. W. McD ermott
R. A. Miller
C. Warren ............................. .
58 .... R. C. Ryan, JW....................
L. D. Armstrong
W . A. Revitt
0. Wulf
59....E . G. Wagner, SW....... - .....
60.... D. F. Skillern, M ..................
R. L. Payne, lnsp...................
O . A. Myers

7.56
12.04

24.22
31. 36
31.36

365

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
A llow
61....R. I. Jones, M
N . D. Tanksley, SW
D. B. Challgren, JW
L. E. Dayton, SCW
H. W . Gutte, Jr.
L. C. Hawkinson
R. M. Mills
C. A. Severin
64....T . E . Humphrey, SW............ 15.40
J. B. Wolfe, JW
R. L. Doermer
65.... s. Hogg. SW.......................... 18.34
A. A. Penrose, lnsp............... 18.34
68.... C. M . Hasty, M ...................... 10.92
W. R. Coale, SW
B. L. Walter, JW
A. V . Abbott
70....M. A. Collis, SW................ 16.52
K. M. Hopper, JW
76....J. A . Kirby, ER...................... 19.60
78....B. B. Hathaway. SW............ 17.50
V. C. Tiscomia, SGS ............ 17.50
C. F. Schwoerer
39.76
79...
S~~:k:~rvJW

1;f

..............

80.... J. W. Sibole, ER .................... 17.08
H. L. Coney
81....H. L. Latimer, M ................... . 11.76
W. P. Reiff, JW
W . P. Wilson
84.... A. G. Payne, SW................. . 26.04
87....A. L. Parfet, M ...................... 4.34
K. J. Wales, SW
J. f. Nicholas, JW
J. Anderson
M. C. Baker
J. K. Cothran
E. C. Fugler
F. Gra ff
0 . R. Hewitt
R. A. Neely
M. C. Nelson
J. Olson
B. C. Whiteley
B. Wichels
89.... N. G. Kerhoulas. M .............. 19.46
H. E. Custis, SW
T. K. Scogland
91....R. M. Berry, SW.................. 46.48
93....R. B. Duer, M ....................... . 9.24
E. H. Baker, JW
R. M. Rossi
95....S. L. Burr, M.-...................... . 18.20
R. L. Fry
98.... E. L. Bacon, M ...................... 28.42
W. E. Lathroy, lnsp ............. 17.92
99 ....C. J. Loring , Jr., M ........... _.._ 17.92
G. C. Barrett, SW.................. 17.92
C. M. Cleary, JW
A. R. Schottky

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

366

Mile.
A llow
101....W. A. E. Meyer, M .............. 20.86
T. J. Edwards
103....L. F. Rathbun. SW................ 20.72
D. K. Baldwin, lnsp............... 20.72
S. K. Parker
58.24
i 04... 1<:. T<:e~;~;.
M. W. Christensen, JW
W.W. Frank
106....S. A. Webster, losp............... 40.88
T. T. Morgan
J.E. Morton, Jr.
110_...C. G. Brown, SW.................. 12.60
C. R. Baxter, JW
H. F. Trafton, Insp............... 12.60
JI L..W. J. Caven, M...................... 22.68
J. H. Roberts, SW
E . C. Arbuckle. JW
T . Meriam, G M...................... 22.68
22·68
lv~c~8~~~if1~~~.....................

No. of
Lodge

Represen tatives

No.of
Lodge

Represen tatives

Mile.
Allow

127.... W. H. Arden, SW
F. Guerr. JW
J. Behrens, Insp.
0. P. Bachmann
W . K. Haag
A. G. Matthes
W. Schumac her
128.... E. S. King, M ..........._........... 31.36
L. R. Trout. SW
D. G. Creager. JW
J. B. Lawson, Insp................. 31.36
H. C. Davis
129....J. E. Butler, SW.................... 17.22
131....P. R. Mayer. M.................... 13.30
G. C. Gauntt, JW
132.... H. Pctzwal. ER...................... 31.64
134.... P. Evanikoff, M...................... 7.56
G.D. Thompson, SW.......... 7.56
C. H . Tubbs. JW
J. J. Hartley, Jr., lnsp........... 7.56
L. D. Callison
W. M. Conner
135....R. S. Paul, ER........................ 13.02
P.H. Guynn
136.... H. W. Ross. M
W. F. Jewett
L. H . Sucherma n, SW
E. A. T onoingse n
H . Anixter, JW
J 12.... G. W . Paul. SW.................. . I4.98
G. S. Levin
113....M. F. Skoglund, M
J. L. Schiller
H. H. Bloomfield, SW
139....E. M. Anderson. M
R. P. Huffman. JW
K. A. Howard, SW
117.... P. C. Miller, M ...................... 12.04
C. W. In gmire, JW
H. F. Schultze, JW
W. A. H. Fleischer
S. I. Bonn, Insp....................... 12.04
W . J. Harlow. Jr.
120.... A. I. Stoll, M
C. S. McGlothlin
L. I. Goldkind. SW
B. White, Jr.
I. C. Mintz. JW
I. A. Berliner
140....R. L. Baldridge. ER.............. 12.32
I. Betz
141 ....Not Represented
L. Blumenthal
143....M. T . Sullivan, JW......... ..... 12.46
H. W . Cahn
R. E. Burdg. Insp................. 12.04
A. Farber
C. Bish_o_p
M. A. Harband
G. B. Waterworth
B. J. Katz
C. Knappick . M
144....C.
R. A. Klinger
Fairlie, SW
G.
P.
M. H. Nusbaum
P. F. Balck
L. J. Simon
W. S. Davis
C. L. Weeks
G.D. Gavin
3.50
122.... P. Floyd, M ........................ .
C. T. Hecker
C. E. Miller, SW
A. J. Swank
R. M. Hinds, Insp................... 3.50
M. R. Watson
A. J. Pucell
7.28
123... .D. V. Badger, M........... ......... 9.80 145....C. W . Kawa, M....................
H. L. Gates, SW
G. D. Pettit, SW
N. B. Nissen. JW
R. E. Chaney, JW
146.... B. J. Brwnbac k, M.................. 16.38
R. C. Jensen
J. 0. Raffety, SW
124....R. C. Moore, SW................ 23.10
A. E. Thirkill, Insp............... 16.38
B. R. Gillett, GMrl................. 23.10
7.70
126....J. Wong, M............................
....
147 R. L. Fraser, SW.................. 37.24
S. B. Leighty, SW
G. A. Youngreen. JW
W. V. Compton, JW
0 . Rogers, SW................ 37.80
.D.
...
149
W. K. Heathorne
VanTass ell, lnsp......... 37.80
G.
E.
R. M. Hilton
150....M. L. Rich, SW.................... 24.08
C. J. MacKenzie

l

rgw..................

No. of
Lodge

Mile.
A llow
.
...........
156....E. D. Wilkendorf, M
11.34
L. S. Cranston. GSt.B........... . 9.80
C. E. Sinclair, Insp............... .. 11.34
161....D. R. Euick, JW................ .. .. 16.10
l~:::l ~· R~u~:·M.................. 28.84
Represen tatives

N o.of
Representatives
Lodge
188.... A. G. Graham, M
J. T . Hill, SW

1.. P. Boyles, JW

367
M ile.
A llow

W. Geha
M . L. Graves
S. F. Sea
J. Falconer, JW
T. 0. Reed, JW.................... 32.20
....
190
R. E. Flathmann
191....H. Chadd, M
L. W. T . Gray
H. P. Boerst, SW
H. F. Lutticken
V. McGinley, JW
J.
167.... E. Veach. M ................ ........... . 4.62
G. T . Rowse, I nsp.
W. Neal. SW
J. V . Baciga lupi
F. W . Machon, JW
A. E. Hessel
W. M. Vandemi lt
M ..................... . 3.64
168..
E. Melander, M ............. . 47.60
C.
....
192
W. C. Clarke, SW
S. Cowen. SW
L.
R. P. Sims, JW
W . H . Bottelsen, JW
D. Adam
H. Paine, lnsp ................... 47.60
R.
169....R. A. Hebert. M
W .W. FitkJn
H. H. Cunningh am, SW
193....R. K. Hull. JW..................... . 38.36
A. S. Astor, JW
M. Haefeli. M................ .. 5.18
194....R.
J.E. Hursh
G. C. Gilliam, SW
R. D. Lintner
W . L. Erichsen
V. Paul
W. Grubb
H. D. Soghomonian
J. S. Hawks
R. C. Taverner
195.... Not Represented
173....W. L. Clark, M ..................... . 14.00 196....J. W . Wailes, JW................ 31.36
J. Camp, SW
J. F. F ry
W. Clark, JW
198.... l::. L. McLachlan, M.............. 59.50
.
.
................
Insp
Daley,
A.
14.00
T.
A. J. Conrad, SW
174.... L. J. Crain, M ......................... . 17.78
K. E . Diffee, JW
A. Taylor
T . F. Mason ......................... . 56.00
175....R. Banks, M .......................... . 6.44 199....V. D. Barnes, SW................ 17.22
D . M. Wentwo rth, SW
G. de Ghetaldi, Insp ............. 18.48
]. Jobs. JW
200.... C. Rich, Jr.. M ..................... . 26.74
.
..............
Insp
,
Ledbetter
J. R.
6.44
L. W . Ferdinand, Jr., SW
178....D. ]. McLarty,·M................. . 63.56
W . N. Pope. JW
W. E. Boggs, SW
J. D. Anderson
C. E. Moore, JW
Z. Rose
T . E. Benson
9.10
201....R. W. Castner, M ................. .
.
.............
ER
,
179.... H. F. Galloupe
21.84
R. E. Sachs, SW
.
...
...............
M
,
5.32
180....W . Eberwein
E. Rohwer
H . S. Louden. SW
J. W. T utt
.
.
J. Keller, Jr., Insp...............
5.32 202.... S. E. Yarborough, M........... . 56.42
181....J. D. Gillette, M .....·-············· 8.82
E. L. Dunn, SW
SW
H. H. Spomer,
D. C. Clark, JW
JW
A. McCracken,
J. M . Gordon
.
7.56
J. W. Wright, Insp ..............
W. R. Hervey, Jr.
C. C. Dmme
C. W . Hull
L. T. D uBose
J. L. N elson
G. A. Gillette
203....R. B. Hays, SW.................... 14.70
G. K. Porter
F. Q. Jing
.
182....S. E. Morris, fnsp ................ 14.70
H. C. Raines
183.... B. R. Lang, SW.................... 14.98 204....E. G. Tom, M .............. ......... 15.12
184.... G. D. Webber, ER ............... . 30.38
B. J. Gerbrandt, SW
185....D . 0. Ramsay, M ................ . 18.06
A. Schoch, JW
A. R. Richards on, SW.......... 14.00
Smith, Sr., Insp........... 15.1 2
186 .... N. F. Swickard, M ................ . 48.16
A. . Betts
187....B. H. Clark, SW.................... 11.20 205.... L. J. Berry, SW .................... 23.52
J. J. Clark, JW
B. R. Price, JW
H. A. Broyles
F. G. Hollenberg
F. R. Mason
0 . B. Liersch

.J i:i.ce~:~.

WJ.

PROc°l!EDINGS OP TflE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

Mile.
Mile.
No. of
No. of
Allow
Allow Lodge
Repreiientatlves
Lodge
Repres entd{ve.s
40.46
206 ....R. F. Thrasher. sw............ ~Ui 22 L·k.'f.·ce~~th~W
W. L. Hurd. Insp................. 60.34
J. C. Carpenter, lnsp............. 40.46
207 ....V. C. Fransen. M..................
W. M. McKenney
E. D. Jarvis, SW
L. E. Myers
A. B. Cross, lnsp................... 60·34
E K k
225···· R. G . Arp, M SW
208....~: C. ~~own. M ..........._....... 9.52
r.·~g~~~nson,
D. N. Baker, JW
W. Perry. Jr.. M
209 ....H . W. Austin, SW................ 32.48 226....L.
G. E . Watts. SW
J. L. Rankin, jW
K. M. Thompson. JW
C. J. Weir. r., Insp............. 32.48
E. A. Davis
C.H. Gregor y
W. Smith. M........ ............ 10.08
210.... L. H. Stotesberry. M......... ... 7.00 228 .... S.
R.H. Mills. SW
W. E. Stovall. SW
229.... F. M. Fralick. M.................. 4.34
F. Robinson, JW
R. H . Nivarel, SW
R. L. Norton
V. E. Stainer, JW
W. P. Truran
A.G. Espinosa
F. F. Von Dorsten
R. O. Gloeckner
211....P. P. Schleuse, ER.............. 13·30
D. H . MacLean
H. A. Hermansen
R. H. Nivarel
212 ....L. G. Lewis. M
E B p·
E. s. Morningstar, SW
c·.
E·. s~~
F. L. Holmes, JW
230... .M. G. Stowe. JW.................. 18.76
R. Fernandez
C. B. Campb
214...E. R. Brown. M.................... 5 1.24 231....N ot Represe ell, AGL............ 18.76
nted
215 .... H. A. Miller, M
232.... S. V. Warner. ER................ 39.06
L. Stickney. SW
J. S. Roberts
O
W. J. Hay, JW
233... A E. Enderlin, SW.............. 1 ·36
P. Harris
A. T. Friedlund. JW
A. A. Lind
234 .... J. R. Gereke, ER ........................35 .70
A. L. Murray
235 ... .R. R. Reeves, EMR......................53 ·48
W. Nankervis, Jr.
236 ....C. P. Matsen,
................... 14·42
216.... A. Horne, M
C. N. Matsen, SW
A. King. SW
B. H. Phillips, JW
J. H. Wickenhiser. JW
W. S. Thompson, Insp......... 14.42
I. W. Coburn. PGM
A. T. Kiersch
M. Gusset
237 .... H. Hamburg. Jr., SW............ 33.04
S. I. Jacobs
F. O. Sherrill , JW
B. F. Lurie
H. R. Gewe
217....E. M. Dreyer , M.................... 16.38
J. Jenkins
H.J. Muir. SW
240 .... W. G. Davison, ER.............. 17.36
D. M. Kueny, JW
241....B. J. Vickers, M ................... 60.90
218....S. L. Evans, M ..................... 5.60
G. Kinzer, SW
R. A. Famariss, SW
D. A. Griggs
219... J. Falabella. M
242 ....C. B. France, M...................... 47·60
W. J. Lawson, SW
M. R. Andrews, SW
R. M. Christain, JW
R. E. Ellis, JW
V. L. Brwio
243. ...L. E. Boyles, M......... ............. 3.78
J. Icard!
M. E. Yoder, SW
220 ....W. C. Jebe, M...................... 58.52
W. H. Mitchell. JW
E. G. Ketchum, SW
N. E. Clemens
W. V. Ritchie, TW
A. R. Fleming
C . T. Shirley, fusp................. 58.52
W. F. Flierl
S. J. Brewer
G.D. Hayes
221....t)M· Ferren, SW.................. 60.20
F. H . Horwood
.
n
]W
H. J.
. CR
. iese ,
W. TKeim
. Smith
M. E. Nilius
A.
F. Taylor
222 J C Peterson. M................... 14.56
A. W oodruff
.... C. L. Duncan, SW

No.of
Mile.
No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Repr@sentative&
Allow Lodge
Represent~ve&
Allow
244 ....H. E. Olsen. M
E . S. Hopp
W . M . Autry, SW
A. R. Logasa
A. J. C.ole. JW
A. 0. Rier
A. A. Cam11bell
F. B. Scullin
E . A. Clothier
W. H. White
L. K. Bain
A. C. vonKonsky
H. B. Lindblad
J. Wullschleger...................... 4.48
W. L. Misner
261 .... Not Represented
J. G. Sjoberg
262 ....G . W . Hatfield . SW.............. 40.18
N. Soutar
J. M. Phillips, 'JW
S. P. V asilovich
P. E. Highfill
245....L. A. Brown, M .................. .. 20.44 264....R
. A. Olson. SW................ .. 33.04
G. Wurs<:hmidt, SW
P. S. Sword, 'JW
D . M . Gummow. JW
H. Drashner
246 ....C. A. Wamel. M .................. .. 61.04
D. Meredith
R. L. Soper. SW
265... .V. M. Gleason. SW.............. 21.70
E . C. Lowe, Insp ................... 61.60
J. A. Martin
G. Ritter
. P. Romer
247 .... K. F. Larson, M................... . 25.62 267 ....W
B. D. Shively, SW .............. .. 12.32
G. W . Warner , SW
268 .... F. T . Smeider, M
P. E. Wofford, JW
T. J. Whitte n. SW
G. E. Hiatt
W . P. Kell, JW
E . L. Kellas
N . 0 . Millar. Insp.
J. L. Stewart, Jr.
0. J. Brown
248.... V. L. King. M ............. ........... 50.54
C. Ratkovich
250....C. A. Triona. SW............. ... .. 44.94 269....W.
H. Jeter, M ..................... . 31.78
253 .... E. J. F. Mast, SW............ .... 10.92
W. K. Hallows, SW
F. Radebaugh, JW
M. Nalbandian. JW
A. L. Hayes. lnsp ................ . 10.92 271....T
. E. Haskell, M................. . 21.70
P. Stephens, Jr.
272....A. C. Alig, M............ ............ 57.54
254....A. S. Hart. M ..................... . 30.38
F. V . Griffin, SW
R. L. Hickey, SW
C. L. Elliott, JW
A. A. Bryceson, Insp........... .. 30.38
R. T. Merriam ...................... .. 57.54
D . C. M<:Rae
273....R. H. Hender son. M............ 58.38
A. F. Ross .............................. 30.38
W. A. Samson, SW
G. W. Sturm..... :.................. .. 30.38
R. A. Smith, JW
255 ....R. R. Greene, M .................... 29.82
G. Q . Evans
R. A. Dorman, TW
T . M. Newtson
S. F. Passley, lnsp ................. 30.80
0 . D. Weddl e
256....J. E. Juce, SW.................... .. 13.16
K. L. W eeks
C . A. lewis, TW
R.
258....E . F. Leak, M ...................... .. 15.96 274 ....W .L.R.Williams
Pierson, M .............. .. 34.72
W . G. Barnes. SW
R. R. Coggeshall, JW
R. E. Denton. JW
H. 0 . Pope, Jr.. Insp ............. 34.72
259 ....S. L. Channon, M ................ 64.40 275 ....W.
L. Hover, SW............. ..... 13.30
J. B. Morgan. SW
277 .... H. V. Carter, SW................ .. 27.72
C. E . Wester , JW
P. J. Nielsen
B. C . Morton, GOrt........... .. 64.40 278....W
. G. Dreeke. M ............... . 56.42
W. H . Price, Insp ................. 64.40
R. M. Price, JW
.260.... M. A. T asem, M
H. V. Spende r
N. A. V erreos, SW
279 ....B. E. Cox, SW............. ........ . 29.96
L. F. Anderson, JW
G. C. Cypert. JW
U . G. Patropulos, lnsp.
280....J. L. Sumpter, SW................ 22.54
R. E. Sorac.co, Insp............. .. 19.60
J. C. Hinkle, JW
B. C. vonKonsky, lnsp.
281....C. R. Eggleston, SW............ 28.84
H . E. Bennett, Sr.
A. B. Moss
S. J. Breier
282.... W . 0 . Adams. SW................ 12.74
C. F. Burrows
283....J. H. Pearson, 'fW................ 73.64
R. F.
T. E. Anderton
S. l. Dean. r.
R. H. Beetlestone
R. L. Drey us
E. C. Wright . Sr.

368

............ ......

Coffel

369

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

370

Mile.
No.of
No. of
Mile.
Allow
Representatives
Lod{lc
Representatives
Allow Lod{le
285 ....T. G. Males, ER.................... 27.16 308 ....G. E. T ennant, M ................ .. 58.52
R. A. Foote. SW
286....C. L. Walter, SW................ 28.42
W . M. Settcrlund
P. L. Turner, lnsp................. 28.42
309
....
H.
T . Hofman. SW................ 36.26
287 ... .J. D. Kinzy, SW._................. 53.90
W . Billingsley. JW
W. W. Partridge, Insp......... 53.90
W. Robertson
288 ....Not Represented
289 .... L. M. Laster, SW................ 66.08 310.... R. J. Stevens. SW................ 39.20
312
....
L.
E.. Lewis. SW.................. 17.64
H. Habenicht
T . C. Conwell
290... G. P. Cashion, M.................. 56.42
313 ....W. R. Porter. M.................. 46.34
H. L. P. Wessel. SW
P. 0 . Marx. SW
M. M. Beaman
314 .... P. J. Nylander. M................ 63.00
C. C. Cadman
K. M. Rycraft. SW
J. A. Crosby
L. E. Keller
C. C. Orrell
291....E. M. Shively. M................ 5H8 315 ....G. E. Aegerter, M-------········· 58.52
E. T . Scarberry. JW
J. W. Law, SW
W. E. Epperson
C.R. Marshall. Jr., JW
316 ....G. Winter, SW.................... 27.72
F. W. Hertel. Jr.
W. E. Burke............................ 27.72
292 ... W. R. Freer, M.................... 7.42
L. J. Green
293.... L. G. Darwin, M.................. 60.62
H . M. Ritter
J. R. Craft, SW
317 ....R. G. Robinson. ER.............. 70.70
M. W . Gould, JW
J. W. Belford. lnsp............... 70.70
F. D. Higgins
318 .... M. Green. SW........................ 19.32
J. S. Lampert
319 .... H . W. Noble, M.................. 56.42
29-l .. L. Henslee. M........... ....... .... 28.42
J.M. Eagle, SW
P. P. Johnson, JW
F. C. Wohlfarth. JW
C. P. Hansen
R. T. Kiele. Insp................... 56.42
R. N. Rouch
T . J. Owens. Jr.
295 .... C. L. Wadlow, SW............ 9.66
F. W . Peters
L. C. Chenoweth
U. Rostagno
296 .... J. Bain, M.............................. 73.08
320... .A. E. Barnum. M-------·-------·-- 56.42
W . H. Oviatt, SW
W . J. Creighton, SW
L. L. Davis, Jr., JW
M. A. Green.......................... 56.42
M. C. Ketcham
D. H . Terry
297 .... L. E. Newton, M.................. 37.94
321....J. W. Watt, Jr., M----------·-·- 5.46
R. G. Hickerson, JW
C. L. Hellen, SW
J. A. Martin
L. J. Seiferth. JW
299 ... ). T. Thompson, M................ 6.30
H. C. Hansen
F. A. Chapman. S\V
322 ___ .J, E. Mattison. SW................ 57.40
W. A. White, JW
'I'. D. Atkins, Jr., JW
C. J. Grant
F. M. Freeborn
300 .... N. F. Sembach, SW.............. 64.40
H. L. Kidwell
C. E. Anderson, JW
K. Dowell, Insp................... 65.52 323.... H. C. Cook, M...................... 57.82
J. P. Sasseen, SW
301....W. H. Figgins. SW............ 60.76
C. T . Moorman
E. R. Gilbertson. JW
302 ....C. T. Grim. JW.................... 21.14 324 ....R. L. Van Wye, M................ 57.54
E.W. W iegel. JW
E. Feldt
C. Hubbell
303 .... IS. ~~~~i~.' J~.................. . 34.86
G. F. Porter
R. J. Rasmussen
H.F. Wilcox
325
....
K. 0. Bingham, SW.............. 71.12
E.N.Willt>y
A. T . Tubaugh. JW
304 ....D. S. Powell, SW ...................... 28.56
T. W . Eckford
305 ....A. W. Okerson, M................ 59.50
326....L. Walhr, SW.................... 79.66
H. J. Ca.ppell, SW
J. J. Ta ylor, JW
306.... H. H. Johnson, SW ..... ·-··-··· 64.68
327....R. E. Blakeney, M ..-----···----·· 60.06
B. N . Brin. JW
R. E. Hilts. SW
G. E. Bcrresford
J. H. Ferguson, Insp............. 60.06
307....T . R. Halldorson, M............ 56.14
G. P. Calderwood
F. 0. Swan, JW
F. 0. Estes
P. C. Bruce
H. G. Van Dyke
W.R. Ringwald

k.

No. of
Mile.
Lod11e
Representatives
Allow
328.... W. R. Lott. M........................ 57.96
M . L. Coffee, SW
Q . H. Cunningham, JW
D. J. Shoemaker, Insp............ 57.26
E. J. Mills
W.0. Wade
329 ....B. Des Forges, SW______________ 56.42
A. L. Caen
M. L. Gaul
330....D. M. Blaclaner, SW____________ 325.29
A. K. Bell
331....S. A. Sells. M.·---·--··--------·-·-· 17.08
A. Balchin, Imp..................... 17.08
F. W. Hellman
33L.H. A. Llewellyn, M.............. 60.20
R. L. Inlow, SW
M. Pcrdok, JW
333....J. Gardiner, SW·-·-····--------··- 41.30
334 .... J. E. Whitlock, M................ 59.64
C. C. Cockrell, SW
W . D . Burkett, JW
W . C. Bates, Insp................. 59.08
335....L. H. Pinsky. SW............. .... 56.42
N. Steinore, JW
E. F. Magnin, GC.... ·---·------· 56.42
F. J. Jonas
C. Ruberu
336.... . A. Turpin, M
M. R. Hansen, SW
P. A. Brom
J. W. Hansford
R. C. Horstmann
R. Jenny
B. 0. Young
337.... P. T . Pittman. M.................. 3.92
D. Simpson. SW
338.... D. E. Broe. M........................ 68.60
339 ....A. C. Grattan, M.................. 60.20
W. F. Wall, SW
W. L. Currie
34 L.A. B. Collins. M.................... 52.64
R. W. Tozier. SW
J. J. Ritch. JW
R. E. Jones. Insp..................... 52.64
343....C. P. Vozza. M __................. 52.92
I. M. Forbes. JW
T. L. Biddison
J. K. Savage
344....B. W einstein. M
E. H. Brown, SW
A. M. Lesser. JW
A. F. Breslauer. PGM
A. S. Becker
C. Becker
H. Curtis
G. G. Hawxhurst
B. A. Katz
R. J. Miguel
A. Salomon
H. L. Wayne
AC. Wollenberg

b

371

Mile.
No.of
Lodge
Representative&
A llow
345....C. B. Weeks. Jr.. M ............. 7.84
0 . Dickey. SW
J. F. Ladd, JW
346 .... J. W . Carl. M ....................... . 4.48
J. G. Meredith. SW
H. N. Swift, JW
L. H. Anderson, PGM.......... 4.48
G. E . King
A. B. Morten. ........................ . 6.86
347....A. C. Rogers, M
E. P. Margherio, SW
J.C. McPherson. JW
F . De Barrows
W. E . Richmond
348.... H . B. Wessel. M .................... 63.56
C . R. Demmelmaier. SW
D. T. Wright, Insp .............. . 63.56
V. N. Hodge
349 .... D. W. Besoain. M
K. H . Gardner, JW
M. D. Coy. lnsp.
G. C. Courreges
W. L. Etterbeek
F. D . Gatter
D. M. Hughes
L. E. Muntz
E . H. Phillips
H. S. Savage
351.. ..G. D . Bloomfield. M·----···------ 56.42
J. A. Boyle, SW
B. R. Jordan
352....J. Chackerian, M .. ----··-··-·----- 56.42
J. Mindell, SW
H. R. Hall, JW
J. Hardy
R. H. Head
W. Kludjian
353 .... R. H. Maroon. M.................. 3.78
D. C. Peabody. JW
354.... E. H. Beverly, M
F. W. Traveny, SW
J. M. Ruggiero, Insp.
A. L. Croce
E. R. Johnson
W. D. Verbarg
E. H. Wilkens
355 .... E. L. Gamet. M.................... 55.44
J. R. Davison. SW
D. Thornton, JW
L. E. Anderson, PGM .......... 56.42
E. H. Gebhardt, Insp, ________ _ 56.42
W. H. Beaudry
J. F. Davidson
F. E . Green
D. H. Sc.hwimley
356....R. K. Mills, M
P. A. Wilson, SW
B. A. Stocking, JW
K. 0. Seymour
357 .... J. W. James. M .................... 59.22
J. W. W illis, /r .. JW
T. R. Siems, nsp .................. . 60.34

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

372

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

Mile.
Allow

No.of
Mile.
Representatives
Allow Lodge
Repre~ntatives
Lodge
Bode, Sr.
E.W.
358 ....J. R. Reeve. Sr., M ................ 56.42
H . 0 . Hammerich
A. R. Plank. Jr .. SW
V . V. Kolombatovic
B. Meyer. Jr., Insp....... ........ 56:12
U . D. Mackins
H . A. McFrye
T . J. McHenr y
359....Not Represented
N. H. Neel
360....J. C. Jensen, M
R. H. Sievers
W . C. Bird
371.. ..G. H. Batten. SW .................. 285.09
A. F. Enderlin
C . H. McAllister. Insp ...... ... 285.09
R. W . Haun
G . W . Clark, JGS.............. .. 285.09
K. W. Hinkle
H. F. Lishman
E. C. Mathise n
J. C. Simpson
H . D. Oliphant
A.H. Strike
M . T. Simmons
58.38
372....}. D. Sparks. M..........
0 . von Raven
SW
Lee.
F.
.
361....W. R. Anderson, ER.......... 23.21
. Callende r, JW
6.86
362....P. H. Nelson, M................
R. E. Crist, lnsp....... ............ 58.38
SW
Raab.
J.
.
W
K. W . Schlaegel
F. G. N a sh, JW
373 .... H. E. Kultalahti. M.............. 56.12
F. W. Mitchell
E . \V. Branaum , SW
R. L. Nelson
M . J. Winn, JW
W . H. Scott
H. W . Hasbrou ck
363. .. J. D. Leach. M
B. F. Fisher. M
....
371
0 . H. Bradley. SW
L. H. Davis, SW
E. F. Smith, JW
K. L. Newkirk , JW
\V. H. Adams
J. H. Adams
0. E . McLean
P . M. Bovero
L. C. Moore
R. Elder
365.. S. W . Hulett, SW....... ......... 19.60
R. H. Johnston
W. D. Ford
L. H . Silberma n
25.62
366 ....R. P. Larsen, M................. .
P. C. Tudor
0 . F. Lingerfelt, SW
W . Van Ornum
S. M. Pavlovich, J\V
375 . .. A. E. Cook, JW
M . E. Allred
E. Bender
A. D. Dadmun
J. H. Conner
W. P. Robinson
J. W. Halley
367.. .It W. Reach, M................. .. 57.82
R. F. Johnson
H. W. Palmer, SW
L. J. Schell
E . M. Ericson, JW
C . Trethew ey
Colvin
E.
C.
F. Wishero p
W.W. Hockersmith
376 . ..G . W . Brown. M
G. W . Roche
J. A . Mannon , SW
D . J. Schmid
E. A. Sandberg, TW
56.00
......
M..........
s.
Simmon
F.
368 ....A.
E. L. Almquist
SW
Jarrett,
S.
W . E.
377. ...L. W . H amner, S\V......... .... 58.94
JW
Bates,
R. N.
W. L. Lindner, JW
56.00
G. B. Mize, PGM .....
E. H . Hutton
A. M. Johnson
378 ... J. A . Spence. SW.................. 56.12
H . E. Rathbun
G. W . Perkins, lnsp............. 51 .32
C. L. Skillman
H . Labrow
14
56.
.
..............
M
.
.369.... R. N. Tillotson
379 .... R. F. Burson. SW....... ......... 51.88
SW
.
R. H. Wallace
J. Starnes, JW
D . B. Hoffman. ) W
H. J. Haase
W. T . Betts
W. H . Price
T . B. Pach
380... .D. C. Cook. M ........--···-···-··· 62.H
\V. D . Tucker
E. E. Burnes. SW
370 . .W. E. Ross. M
38 1....C. A. Thomps on. M.......... .... 68.32
D. R. Stall. SW
C. J. \Vhitefo rd, SW
J. Kyrimis, JW
W. B. Bayless. JW
3.64
..........
AGT....
}. F . Bowley,
D. M . Craig
P. A. Pflueger, GT

No.of

Mile.
No.of
Allow
Representative.s
lodge
395 ....Frank Clark, SW............... . 14.56
396.... B. J. Hillman. M
C. J. Dempsey. SW
A . W . Hanson, JW
A . Johnson, lnsp.
W. S. Parker, Jr.
D . P. Russell
397.... N. J. Allsberry. M................ 57.12
0 . R. Line, SW
D. F. Mayhew , JW
399....0. D . Russell, SW................ 7.00
C . F. Miescke. JW
R. \V. Mcintyr e
400.... H . D . Rowe, M
W. C . Krutman , SW
W. B. Taylor, JW
J.C. Belda
W. J. Moir
W. E. Provenc e
W . C. Schafer
401....K. A. Hoover. M
C. R. Smoot, SW
0 . O. Miller, JW
C. W. Bishop
M. C. Buckley
D. McFetri dge
E.C. Lamp
A. H. Triggs
402.... M . L. Wagstaf f, Jr., M........ 83.H
F. B. Pumphrey, Sr., JW
19.46
E. E. Adams
19.46
P. E. Palmer
56.42 403....J. J. Da lton, M
P. M. Hayes, SW
56.42
J. H. Campe, Jr., JW
D. P . Hewlett
58.10
L. S. McElwa in
404....R. L. Young , M .................... 59.78
T. D. Walker, Jr ., SW
G. B. Gordon, Jr.. SGD._..... 59.78
405 ....G. E. Towner , Sr., M.......... 56.42
E. V. Hagado ne, SW
L. B. Fenders on, JW
406 .... L. C. Van Kirk, M.......... .... 55.H
W . A . Osbourn e, SW
59.22
T . J. Preston, JW
R. B. Carter
W. D. Hopkins
56.42
T. J. Russell
407... .A. H. Rodil~ck. M.................. 74.48
J. R. Heap, SW
A. Stanley, Jr.• JW
L. H. Shaw, lnsp.---···-······- 74.62
R. W. Fillpot... ....................... 7-1.48
J. J. Garrison
408 ....J. A. Nau, M .... ·-··-·--·-···------· 58.38
E . T. Knowles. JW
409 ....J. A. Dickson, SW........_ ..... 285.09
G. N. Kahapea , Sr.
410. ... S. A . Barakos, M
S. H . Smith

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Representatives
Lodge
382....J. R. Duke, M........................ 56.12
R. N. Richardson. SW
C. M. Wilson, JW
383....F . M. Benson. SW................ 29.26
384....G . R. Kirk, M ...·-··--·--- -····---·· 86.24
E. W. Heald, PCM..... ......... 86.24
R. C. Reeder, lnsp..........-----· 86.24
D. Dixon
N. P. Tester
385.... W. A. Little, SW.................. 29.54
C . L. Fraser, lnsp................... 29.54
387....W. E. Weeth, M-- ·-············· 29.12
F. W. Spear
388...L. R. Lawrence, M
SW
E. Finley,
. C. Tracy, W
. E. Finley, lnsp.
C.H. Allen
C. G. J. Anderso n
G. K. Crandal l
W. A. Fager
K. E. H opper
J. F. Palmer
R. E. Petersen
H . D. Robertson
389....J. E. Reese, M ...................... 60.06
D. McConnell, SW
390....C. E. Owens, M.................... 84.84

Ir.,

.
J

~~~············
391....~'W.. ~:H. ~~~t°ER.
Fiske, AGL..... ...........

W . D. Archer
392....A. A. Smith. Jr.. M ..........·-···
Day, SW.................____
A.
P . . Moffat, JW
L. V. Smith, lnsp...................
N. A . HenderSf>n
J. A. Sickenberger
393... .K. E. Person, M
F. H. Bede. JW
H . French, fnsp.
L. W. Johnson
C. J. Moquin
0. A. Swansen

i

394.... Si.1A~ffi1~:\;w:···--········-··

~.1e:.11~~~.' b'dM................
C . L. Allen
R. R. Atkinson
E. L. Cannon
E. E. Childers

C. 0. Crouse
R. G. Crump
F. E. Cutler

K. E. De Haven
R. W. Emmert

J. H . Hutchis on

W. T . Lisenby, Jr,
F. W. Morris
E. L. Schwam b

C. L. WJ..boo.

373

W. W . Wilcox, Jr.

374

PRO CEE DIN GS OP THE

Mile .
No. of
Mile.
w
Allo
ves
No. of
ntati
rese
Rep
Allo w Lod ne
Representatives
Lod ge
16.94
.
...
.......
ER.
66.36 433.... W. W. Barkley. lnsp ........... 16.52
41 L .J. Vail, SW.............. ...
W. A. Dahling,
. 86.94
.....
.......
J\V
ia,
Garc
C.
....... ......... 42.56
W.
.
..
412
56.42 434 .... G. D. Prindle. SW
.
.....
.......
.......
M
sch,
Rau
C.
R.
414 ....
W . Klesow, M
W.
....
135
C. G. Ov ian, SW
E. G. Freeman, SW
. . 55.44
415....M. Jackson, M ... .. ....... .......
I. Cras e
JW
,
ards
Edw
M.
P. A. de Vrie s
0
54.6
.
......
.......
.......
lnsp
kin,
Shul
I.
J. A. Tere si
61.46
d
woo
Gate
A.
V.
436 ....J. L. Scott, SW.................... .
H. C. Smith
JW
.
iano
Giul
S.
. 33.46
6
416 ....G. R. Hahnle, M .................
G . D. Lober, lnsp.............. ... 61.4
F. W. Vollmer. SW
McC ourt ney, M ....... ..... 52.5 0
J.
A.
....
437
J. B. Thompson, J\V
C. 0. Schaub. SW
6
0
A. A. Daniclls, Insp ............. 33.4
J. E . Baco n, Insp................... 52.5
8
26.1
.
.
.......
.......
SW
.
arris
..... 52.50
H
.......
.......
.
ht....
417....R. S.
Knig
D.
W.
. 56.42
418....W. L. Urban. M .................
J.C . Sinn
M. S. Reid. JW
V. D. War d
2
56.4
..
......
.......
Insp
rtle,
. 10.50
C. K. Sche
439 .. .D . Mar tin, ER.......................
h
A. L. Smit
M
son,
Sam
G.
D.
....
. 61.46 440
419....J. R. Thra sher , ER. ..............
H. B. Rich ardson. SW
M. J. H;:mna
A. M. Tom
8
24.7
.
.
........
M
rd.
76.72
rgaa
420....H. \V. Ove
441. ..R. V. Clar k, JW .... ....... ....
R. H. Sherwood
ert
Holb
C.
G.
. 58.10
421....L. D. Matson. M.................
D. W. Stubbs
8
J. M. Allee. SW
H. M. Kirkland , M.......... ...... 73.0
....
442
JW
K H. Grace.
JW
ore.
Gillm
D.
L.
M. B. Burk e
F. R. Pora th
J. L. Robertson
D. Wal lace , SW.............. 285.09
...S.
443.
2
56.4
.
.....
.......
.......
422 ....A. E. Garr en. M
G. P. Gieser
6
J.M . Seitz. SW
R. S. Pearson. M.......... ..... ... 48.8
....
444
S\V
S. E. Paddon, JW
sen,
sten
Chri
A.
D.
M .............. 56.42
J. E. Calhoun
57.26 445 ....A. M. Dithridg, e.
423....D. J. Scott. M ........
Huebner SW
P.
H.
D. C. Gray son. SW
R. H. Carr oll. JW
. 32.90
2
424....B. L. Griffis. M .....................
F. E. Clark, lnsp ................. 56.4
F. T. Wils on, SW
ning
Grue
T.
A.
6
86.6
.
.
.......
2
425 ....J. F. Dun gan. SW.......
H. A. Huebner ... ........ ..... ...... 56.4
M. Hor ton
Page
W.
G.
41.58
.
....
.......
.. 59.22
426 .... D. C. Blakeney. SW
446 ....J. W. Roberts. SW ..............
R. W. Enoch. JW
JW
.
Ulch
.
H
C.
8
41.5
.
......
R. A. Smith ....... ....... .......
SW................ 59.22
. . 61.04 447 .... D. T. Wan ds,JW
427 ....J. C. Behringer, M ..............
J. Rayls.
W.
2
P. L. Pace, JW
L. D. Babcock, Insp.............. . 59.2
R. W . C. Storms
on
Lars
S.
Vv.
4
.
60.3
428 ....W . P. Smart, Sr., SW.......
R. 0 . Lougee
. 5.60
429 ....D. L. Brenner, M ....... ..........
E. M . Mosher
4.34
J. L. Martin, S\V
418.... J. L. Carrier. M......................
R. J. Malone, JW
H. E. Tho rnsb erry , SW
J. C:. Brown
C. E . Sisson. JW
R. Lopez
V . W. Hendrix, AGS
R. P. Ulrich
H. B. Herr ing
2
40.3
.
430....F. J. Jord an, SW ...................
G . C. Johnson
0
39.2
.
....
.......
GBB
,
icher
Gt-rl
C.
M.
419 .... W. P. Glov er, M
P. N. Myers. PGM
C . R. Menzie, JW
4
37.9
.
..
.......
.......
lnsp
t.
Lind
.
W
P.
R. Duden
M
kle,
Win
Van
L.
431....J.
G. W. May nard
SW
tt,
Arne
J.
D.
0. D. Park er
R. F. McDonald. JW
S . L. Solomon
54.32
ks
Broo
R.
E.
450 ....R. W. Hart , M................. .....
e
Horn
W . A.
H . A. Hen ry. Jr., SW
L. N. Mason
E. C. Dunham, JW
J. B. Trimeloni

GRA ND LODGE OP CAL IFOR

NIA

375

Mile.
Mile .
No. of
No. of
llow
A
es
tativ
esen
es
w
Repr
tativ
Allo
Represen
Lod ne
Lod ge
M
ner.
Gay
.....
.
2
A
lnsp
G.
54.3
....
Jr.,
462
son,
Dick
W.
W.
H. &!ell. JW
R. E. Gibson
A. T. Kahn. AGL
J. L. Girdlestone
T . W. S. Wu . GSwB
R. D. Mar tin
H. Beckendorf
L.
H. S. Morrison...................... 54.32
A. B. Eps tein
R. W. P ettes
P. Gara bedi an
57:i 0
P.A . Lawson
451....L. F. Muller , M......................
M. J. Mey er
D. R. Johansen, SW
J. W. \Var shaw
T. Ainilian. TW
2
G. L. Zeidler
F. L. Sutliff, Insp ................... 56.4
.. 9.66
463.... J. L. Patchen, SW..............
R. R. Bear d
9.66
..
.......
Insp
er,
hclst
Buch
.
s
H
L.
Tone
L. E.
M
o,
Nun
A.
...J.
464.
rney
Kea
B. F.
M. S. Lombardo. SW
M. L. Lamb
P. C. Nielsen. JW
57.54
...
.......
....
M
Tr.,
i,
insk
Kam
E.
452S. G. Clark, Insp.
J. R. Miller. SW
W. Butcher
C. W. Faw cett
D. N. Deane
R. N . Grossman
W. A. Foster
J. B. C"'11mnels
F. Herz
R. C. Kettle
J. R. T itsworth
R. H . Ritt~ers
25.62
465....A. Helm uth, SW... ........ .......
B. V accaricllo
JW
n,
anio
O"B
A.
A.
D. G. \Vhi te
2
S. E. Dollar, lnsp................. 25.6
45·L .A. J. Huelse. M
L. B. Anderson
40.46
P. R. Schr oede r. sw·
166....F. R. Brown, M ....................
D . A. Mow at, JW
0. Gregoire. SW
J.
B. Coleman
C. W. Luic k, JW
H. E. Heisch
R. J. Myers
urdo
V. P. McM
C.R . Wilk es
56.42
A. H. Peterson
467....B. D. Sorenson , M... .............
E. E. Smith
W. Clove. SW
R. Wie land
R. V . Clarke, J\V
455 .. .J. H. Craft. M
468 .... J. W . Kerins, M
C. R. W idnes. SW
G. E. War burt on, SW
A. P. Bila y •
!~6:::I g~1~;~~·Jw.............. ...... 60.62
E. B. Brehaut
H. H. Eling
L. M anis, S\V
J. T. Parr
J. A. Gellmann, JW
C. R. Mac Phee
C. H. Rothblum, Insp.
N. E. E. Reed
A. Button
T. W . Rollinson
H. L. Glas s
57.54
M. P. Prince
457....RJ.LG. Jamieson, SW ..............
10.92
. . Potras, JW
471....C. W . Heck, M.................. ..
4
J. Reddick. SW
A. G. Robertson, Insp........... 57.5
R. S. Schneider, JW
I0.92
K~~~~ns~· --············ ··· 56.12
158....~i
T . G. Hamma, Insp............... J0.08
...........
Insp
,
hens
Kitc
D.
DG.
JW
k,
nroc
H. N. Klei
. W. Graffis
~: ~~:~~I Insp................... 56.42 472.... ~E. Doe. SW............... ....... 311.49
p ............... 311.496
12.74
___.J_ L.1:ia~~~ter,~ns
............. 88.0
459 .... A. J. Rossi. SW....................
.......
473
S
•
R
W. A. Collins, JW
SW ................ 56.42
ey.
Kels
.HA.
····]
'
'I
.. 8.68
. . Anderson. JW
460.... W. E. Hag meyer, JW........
74.90
476....GR. D. Pillow, M.......... ....... .....
461....D. Y. Beaver, M
. H . Britron. SW
J. C. Lewellen, SW
R. E. Carlton, Insp ............... 75.32
C. Gibbs, Jr., JW
H. A. Bullard
E. A. Caldwell, lnsp.
R. K. Hager
W. S. Flow ers
40.88
R. P. Knox
477.... T . Angleton, SW ..............
6
. E. Gwin, lnsp....... ............ 42.5
J. A. Steinmetz

P·

l_

r

t.

376

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mlle.
No.of
Allou.
Rern-esentativeJ
Lodge
i91....M. P. Elliott. M
]. E. Spehar, SW
C. R. Ramsey, Insp.
A. A. Horwege
G. A. Jurgens
M. A. Powers
C. J. Rundstrom
W. A. Stinson
492....F. C. Wilson, M .................... 56.i2
B. B. Bever, SW
S. P. Bates, JW
G . E. Harrison, Insp..........-. 56.42
D. C. Lee
193... .F. C. Hess, ER ...................... 29.96
F. M. Henderson
491 ....M. H. Berrie, M
C. D. Guthrie, SW
R. C . Leland, JW
E. L. Hanson, lnsp.
R. Adams
S . B. Andrews
H. L. McCarthy
E. Patterson, Jr.
G. P. Silliman
R. L. Stephenson
195.... F. A. Magid, SW
S. D. Lee, JW
R. A. Krog
M. Meyer
497....D. R. Rodger, M
E . Berton, S\V
K. N. Jaeckel. JW
498....W. E. Toler. M·-···-············ 10.92
E. A. Arnold
499 ....C. M. Cole, Jr.. M ............... . 12.01
M . L. Sellick, SW
D. L. South, JW
R. A. Ebbage
481....G. S. Russel, M ...................... 56.i2
500.... E. L. Schaffer, M
J. H. Tenney, SW
E. J. Armando
R. F. Braendlin
485....H . C. Green, SW................. . 20.H 50 1....A. H. Wellenbrock, SW...... 34.86
502....R. W. Murray, M
E. E. Mu.sick
J. D. F. Smith, SW
486.... W. D. Adams, M ....·-······--- 10.46
T. Thornburg, JW
E. Starr, SW
H. L. Muller, lnsp.
C . Burr, JW
L. H. Brewster
487.... H. L. RJchardson, M ............
C. E. McCray
A. N. Wallace, SW
J. E. Thurbon
J. A. Olson, JW
503 ....t. L. Woodruff, M
J. H. Allison
E. R. Ostby, SW
B. Menge
L. N. Nesbitt. JW
i 88....K. W. Ryan, SW.................. 12.71
R. V. Waylett
H. Chin, JW
501 ....B. F. Grogger. Sr., M .......... 60.06
489....C. R. MacKay. M
0 . A. Vogel, SW
L. B. Olander, SW
J. B. Meredith, JW
A. Van Nieuw, JW
M. R. Berbower, Insp........... 60.06
C. B. Marker
W . T . Corbusier
R. H. Pa rkinson
R. H. Davis
J. A. Sobey
C. M. Thomsen
E. Houser·-···················-···- 60.06
A. R. Moberg, Jr.
490.... Not Represented

Mile.
No.of
Allow
Repre:rentstioeJ
Lodge
478....M. E. Collins. M
D. C. Thompson. SW
J. F. McElravy, JW
K. R. Evans
P. Forrest
L. T. Gore
H.F. Hexner
J.C. Pelkey
H. C. Peterson
E. M. Rapken
R.H. Stitt
0. T . Stone, Sr.
7.00
479....L. G . Benjamin, M ........... _...
E . W. Rog9y. SW............. . 7.00
M. Wright, JW
L. E. Allen
R. W. Scott
J. LeVake
480....t. J. Bishop, M
R. 'E. Crosser, JW
C. A. Davidian
481...J. D. Nelson, M
E. F. Pierce. SW
G. F. Adams. JW
D. D. Rowlands, lnsp.
T. J. Bass, Jr.
W. L. Christiansen
W. H. Daily
C. P. McCarthy
4.90
A. H. NicolL...................·- ···
i82 ... .V. R. Preston, M ................. . 56.42
W . J. Mason
483 .... R. E. Perry, M--·····-----····- 58.IO
G. M. O"Brien, SW
J. Baker, JW
F. F. Elliott. Insp ................... 58.10
~. ~~·f;rdsp ................... 58.10

k.

377

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Representatives
Lodge
505....A. 0. H icks, M...................... 60.90
A. B. Pilant, S\V
H. Williams, Sr., JW
T. W . Thurman
506 .... M. P. Berne, M.................... 56.12
G. H. Field, SW
R. E. Harden, JW
H. Beal
M. Kroopen
L. J. Nelson
507....J. E. Dobbs, M...................... 57.26
H. A. Wilson, SW
B. L. Guthrie, JW
R. J. Lehman
508 ....B. T homas, SW.................... 29.10
509 ....L. Miller, M............................ 56.12
W. G. Cairns, SW
510....D. W . Waters, M.................. 6.30
W.W. Ellett, SW
R. D. Batie, JW
L. E. Crow, Insp................... 6.30
5.71
511....E. Noland, M........................
H . R. Duke, SW
S. W. Dennison, JW
H. L. H om
512.... M. L. Dennis, M ..·--------········· 56.12
H. D. Launius. SW
513 .... W . L. Farrow, M ..·--·-··········· 55.14
J. Barbera, SW
R. W. \Vatts, JW
J. W . Baker
A. S . Davidson
E. L. Kingman
D. H. Lagrange
V. H. Sioes
R. L. Whitney
511....H. Loo. M
A. W. D alrymple, SW
W . A. Mulhearn, JW
C. D. Lightbody
L. B. Richards
C. L. T hornton
D. 0. T ownsend
J. H. Turner
F. E . Wilhelm
515.... L. J. Fleming, M.................... 58.10
C.R. Link. SW
W . F . Wells, JW
J. D. Byork
516.... C. Johnson, Jr., M .......·------·-·· 41.58
517....H. X . Dickson, M
S. V. Doninelli, SW
A. V. Sligar
E. D. Wade
518.... R. A. Holz. JW...................... 72.38
R. B. Watts. ......- ................... 72.38
519 .... H. L. Henry, M...................... 56.42
R. P. Burney, SW
R. W. Weyant, JW
P. M. Bemnson

No.of
Mile.
Representatives
Lod{le
A llow
R. 0 . Bowditch
L. W. Gardener
C. B. Huffine
R. F. Knapp
520....M . H. Nahin, SW................ 56.12
L. Levine
521....D. M. Day, M
R. F. Hass, SW
G . H. David
522 ....S. A. Lesoett, M .................... 57.51
D. E. Durst, SW
523....D. G . Lusk, SW·-·-············· 58.80
B. A. Barton, JW
L.A. Pardee
S. J. Salter
524....W. G . Sargent, M.- ............ . 64.68
P. E. H arrington, SW
525 ....W. E. Sainsbury, M
L. Moya, SW
D. M. Ratledge, JW
C. E. Bowen
R. L. Bowen
J. T . Buchanan
526....J. M. Mabel. M
M. Kaplan, SW
S. Diamond,
T. A. Dethle sen
527.... L. A. Flint, SW................... . 57.96
E. S. T odd
528 ....M. L. Manahan. M .....- ........ 56.42
0. G. Triay. SW
F. Harwell. Jr., PGM ........... . 56.42
J. B. Crawford
F. A. Fox
J. F. Hogan
529 ....0. S. Shepard, M......·------···· 56.12
S. E. Lieb, SW
E. V . Stewart, Jr., PGM ...... 56.42
A. Linsk, Insp .......·-··············· 56.42
L. P. Bass
B. Susman .............................. 51.32
M. Tooredman
530... D. B. Brewer, SW............... . 25.62
F. E. Koonce, JW
H . R. H arg rave, lnsp ........... 25.62
E. L. Coyle
L. H. Moller
L. R. StubblcAeld
531....A. J. Martin. M
J. J. Dorsa, SW
W. J. Chisholm
532.... H. D. Belcher, SW................ 13.16
T. E. Hamman, JW
533....H. W. W ensel. M ...... ·- ···-··- 60.20
M. P. Allen, SW
53i_ J. T. Baxter, M
R. E. Clark, SW
C. B. Von Storch, JW
N. Rae
. H. L. Wolfsohn

JW

.
J

378

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.of
Mile.
Lod(le
Representative~
Allow
548.._H. W . Seitz, M.................... 56.84
X. G. Young, SW
A. D. Sebring. JW
R. W. Doan, Insp ............ -... 56.84
C. T. Murdock
P. P. Phillips
549.... S . Fong, M
R. M. Manbert, JW
R. M. Montgomery, Insp.
W .W. Barry
R. 0 . Biedenbach
A. Burke
M. F. Conklin
W . R. Cruickshank
G . D. Horn
K. D. Smith
551....G. S. Trimble. M
T. P. Harris, SW
L. A. Kirk, JW
P. S. Boren
L. B. Ferguson
552 ....R. A. Barnes, SW.................. 39.76
A. Duncan, lnsp..................... 39.76
554 ....G . R. Rankin. SW
I. Campbell. JW
E. L. Bundy
555 .... F. 0. Russ. SW ......._........... 10.46
556 .... F. Larsen, M.
V. V. Ca.sey, SW
K. C. Thompson, JW
F. B. Peebles
557.... F. S. Osborn, SW..... _....... 57.54
P. Thompson
558....L. A. Samson. M.................. 60.20
E. B. Phillips, SW
E. J. Hull
559 ....W. H. Foley, M.................... 56.42
T. G. Wolfe. SW
F. L. Richards, lnsp............. 56.42
544 ....
56.00
560.... M. M. Bolin, M
W. J. Grauer, SW
B. H. Vincent, SW
W. H. Adams, JW
L. J. Wahl. JW
J. D. Johnson
E . H. Siems. GS
A. 0 . Strayer
W . H. Gillette
0 . L. Walker
561....J. W . Wheeler, SW............ 73.08
545- T. L. Knudson. M
L. R. McClure, JW
W . S. H . Wong. SW
F. Fodor
W . F. Poynter, lnsp.
H.K. Ford
S. Brown
562 ....E. F. Burke, M
). M. Coates
H. E. Noenn.ick, JW
LG. Fong
C.H. Newell
W. G. Furniss
563 ....G. E. Agajanian, M.............. 56.42
0. D. Jewell
I. H. Stewart, SW
I. J. Kohnke
W . Bottorff, lnsp................... 58.38
0 . W. Norman
L.B. Black
G. B. Rutherford
W . G. Poley
5i6 .... R. D. Jones, SW.................... 57.54
J. M. Poster
M. J. Thomason
517...
............. . 58.38
M. F. Vail
T . S. Swirles, SW

Mile.
No.of
Allow
Lod11e
Representatives
535 .... P. E. Quoss. M ....... _........... .. 56.42
M. A. Saari, SW
E. J. Blickfeldt
R. W. Snow
537 ....D. H. Rosenberger, M .......... 56.12
J. R. Nocas, S\V
P. A. Frazier
V. V. Goode
J. H. Karr
P. J. Schnell
538.... W . H. Whitaker, M .............. 58.38
J. H. Smith, SW
L. M. Pennington, JW
J.E. Cox
H. R. Taylor
539.... J. G. McClintock. SW .......... 57.54
C. L. White
540.... F. C. T anner, M ................... . 60.06
C. 0 . Zeiger, SW
M. Fairchild
C. J. Payne
F. L. Ray
541....E. R. Rowe, M
A. J. Leighton, JW
L. M. Barrett
C . J. Bellman, Jr.
C. M. Davis
M. 0. Martin
C. D. Niel.wn
R. L. Richardson
J. G. Smith
542 ....C. H. Smith, M .................... .. 54.60
R. I. Allen, SW
R. A. Totman, JW
R. Bunce. Insp ...................... . 5i.04
C. W. Burch
J. G. Gladson
543.... li. C. Rutter, M.................. .. 60.06

~'. ~~.er~~~

........ ....

.r :.· ~;ch!~~/:::.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Repre:sentatives
Allow
564.... R. D. Olsen, M
H. H. Brechtel. SW
E. C. Frantz. JW
L. J. Camozzi
L. C. Raymond
565 .... H. W . John.son, SW............ .. 56.42
T. lge, JW
0 . Johnson
566 .... H. P. Stassforth, Jr.. M ........ 56.42
L. S. Schottke. S\V
567 ....F. C. Turbyfill. M .............. .. 60.06
G . Walker, SW
568 ....C. D. Rylee, M
M. S. Zadorkin, SW
P. A. Strain, JW
B~~'d?:;;ci........................ 13.16

P: J:

R. A. Browning
J. E. Hammond
W . V. McBeth
J. H. Powell
W . H. Van Cleave
569.... W . C. Ryan. M
C. V . Tucker, SW
H. M. Younker, JW
J. L. Culp
H. D. Weber
570-A. B. Stettler, M
J. Kinces. JW
A. C . Gundred
L. H. Strohecker
571....B. Hordos III, M
H. L. Pong, SW
W . R. Peterson, JW
E.W. Dav ls~ PGL
H. H. Hobson, Insp.
E.W. Batman
E. C. Clifford
J. A. Pivemetz
R.H. Tyler
L.A. White
572 .... D. A. Zeiders, M .................. 56.56
H. 0 . Mooers, SW
R. Smith, lnsp.. _.................... . 58.38
E. J. Cumbey
H. T. Nelson
573 ...E . W. Lawrence, M
M. W . Drucquer
57
73.08

4...1N.;t'E.s~~~f.sstt""""""•""""'
Hale

575 .... E. R. Kent, SW.................. ..
R. G. Ingram, JW
R. Reynolds. lnsp................. ..
576 .... J. I. Dunn. M ..........................
C. "C" Brassell, Jr., SW
L. Chambers, JW
577.... E. G. Morgan, SW..............
L. H. Mahler. lnsp................ .
J. A. Low
J. S. Walters

40.18
10.18
71.48
56.42
56.42

379

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
R epresentatives
Allow
578...L. C . Thomson, M .............. .. 56.12
V. V. Lake, SW
R. E. Williams. JW
E. M. Griffin
A. V. Lundstrom
579 .... F. W. Beardsley, M.............. 12.46
C. G. Adams, SW
W. W . Powers, JW
L. Chapo
C. E. Herrmann
R. W . Rylander
L. Smith
P. A. Stenberg
580.... R. N. Younkins, SW............ 73.78
581....R. F. Freeman, SW.............. 10.46
F. Fussel. JW
S.R.Bauman
L. T. Jenkins
0. W. Palmer
K. P. Sward
582....E. A. Robinson, SW............ 63.28
D. L. Stephens, JW
J. H . Weller, Insp................. 63.28
F. Lowell
583.... J. B. Hammons, SW.............. 38.64
M. C. Hair, JW
F. C. Pritschke, Ins_p.
584.... W. P. Ramey. SW.............. 56.42
585 ....J. N. Ogden, M...................... 56.i2
A. 0. Rolllns, SW
R. G. Bowman, JW
F. E. Fowler
586....W. R. Langdon, M ............... 60.90
M. F. Reno, SW
R. G. Nabors. JW
W . W . Shugart, Insp...... _... 40.46
W. W. Reyburn
587 .... D. H. Martin. M.................... 56.12
S. L. Thomas, SW
E. E. Smith, JW
E. Gardner
H. L. Gennan
C. C. Girard
R. G. Hochenedel

588..

.l/Ai-i:-1Md~~ M .....- ........... 56.42

A. B. Nixon, SW
L. D. Hanselman, Insp........... 56.14
589....A. W. H. Loo........................ 311.49
590.... P. H. V an Dalsem. M.......... 61.04
R. Bowman
591....L. Dahlin. M .......................... 11.90
L. J. Vieira, SW
J. 0. Burke, JW
C. T . Miller
592 .... D. H. Butt. M........................ 54.46
R. F. Williams, SW
A. J. Michaud, JW
593 .... H. D . Connor, M.................. 60.06
M. V. Dearth. SW
W. G . Deeble. JW

380

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mlle.

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Representati~
Lodge
L. J. McEldowney
K. C. Serles
591 ....R. B. Safile, M........................ 60.06
E. C. Lamberson, SW
A. C. Johnson, JW
C. J. W entz;, lnsp.. _............... 60.06
P. D. Nowlin
R. F. Rutherford
595 ... .V. R. Osburn, SW................ 56.12
W. P. Mendenhall, JW
596 ... .R. H. Garrett, M.................. 57.10
R. L. Page, SW
598 .... L. C. McKay, SW................ 285.09
599 ... .E. E. Wilkinson, M.............. 57.51
L. S. H auger. SW
C. C. Davis
K. A. Jacobson
600....C. M. Jacobi, Sr .. M.............. 57.iO
A.R. Wilmeth.SW
C. A. Bristol, JW
M. E. Ammann
G. L. Coover
R. C. Eulbe.rg
R. A. Herbold
601....W. H. Young. ER................ 35.00
602 .... B. L. Holtzendorff, SW........ 55.11
I. M. Bjork, JW
T. J. McKimson, In.sp.·---····· 56.12
E. C. T. Church
G. H. Himes
603 .... L. M . Cowan, Jr., M
L. C. Kennedy, SW
R. I. Ketels, JW
L. C. Basker, lnsp.
G. W. Anderson
W. J. Blomseth
60i....b.1i~t!i~~iwSW.............. 60.90

No.of
Allow
Representatives
Lodge
612 ....C. E. Alexander, M.............. 58.38
D. I. Marlow. SW
S. E. Harris. JW
M. E. Schrock, lnsp...... ---··· 58.38
R. C. Curtis
613... L . R. Leech. Tr.. M ....... -....... 12.0i
L. G. Smith, SW
W. T. Corbitt, JW
F. P. Lemen, AGL................ 12.0i
M.A. Buth
G. F. Packa rd
614 .... H . W . Liebscher, M.............. 56.12
C. G . Grimes, Jr.. SW
J. A. Kennedy, JW
R. A. Simon, lnsp................. 58.38
N. Condee .............................. 56.12
C . F. Cooper
H. H. Cooper
615 .... H. L. Kwock, SW................ 68.60
H. J. Raymond, lnsp............. 68.60
W. Raymond
616.... F. W. Eldred. M.................. 60.31
N. D. Frank, SW
K. B. Conklin, Insp............... 60.06
M. G. LaRue
617.... R. J. Robinson. M ................ 68.60
R. W . Morey, SW
L. E. Bothell
W. A. Raasch
618.... H. V. Bowyer, M................ 56.12
T. Noble
619.... R. C. Sharp, M ...................... 60.06
C . W. Middough, SW
620....R. Kentro, JW........................ 73.08
H. S. Fisher, Insp................. 73.08
H. K. Rankin

60.90
56.12

56.i2
621...t
L. L. Sandlin, SW
M. G. Whiteford, JW
F. S. Vandegrift
622....0. F. Phillips. SW................ 56.i2
H . B. Nicholas, JW
F. H. Chapman
C. A. Demby
R. H. Dutwiler
E. R. Johnson
623... ~·l~~~'.s·~}.';J...................... 56.42

L. G. CoMelly. lnsp.............
605 ....G. M. Haley, SW.....-...........
C.R. Wilkin.s, JW
607 .... H. A. Burch, JW..................
608 .... E. J. Lind, M .....-...................
A A. Hearne, SW
H. B. Ipsen. JW
D. G. Campbell, PGL.......___
J. E. Wellet, lnsp...................
609 ....E. J. G. Chapman. M............
W. W. H oltz.claw, SW
J. F. Clayton, JW
N. E. Ubben
C. F. Van Patten
610.... J. A Davis, M
C. W. Hasha. SW
.Holt. JW
. W. Taylor
I
61 L..R. W. Thompson. M............
J. H. Colpitts, SW
t. H. SpydelJ, JW
C. 0 . Fling
J. P. Kearbey
N. R. Quick

W

58.91
57.iO
57.82
57.10
12.CH

55.02

~.~~Ji~~~.................

t

A. B. Bodley
621....D. M . Marshall, M
R. M. Webb. ln.sp.
R. G. Worth
625.... A. Fonner M .......................... 56.12
J. Farrell, SW
A. Hartien, JW
W.R. Gentry
626....V. S. Hatch, SW.................. 73.92
627....

/}~~eJ.~.................. 57.51
8:J. E.¥.·Waller,
JW

Mile.
No. of
Allow
Repre:rentatives
Lodf!e
628....R. J. Dye, M.......................... 5i.60
C. Terry. SW
J. R. Schncier, JW
629.... W. A. Stokes. M.................. 56.12
R. V. Randall, SW
J. J. Fiderio, JW
A. W. Billings
B. L. Irwin
M. H. Weisman
630.... J. J. Dearing, M
G. H. Beers, SW
J. D. Gingrich, JW
R. W. Blosser
J. F. Garriott
P. S. Tolman
631....0 . B. Nyberg, SW................ 56.12
G. T. Hammond, JW
M. W. Chapman
M. J. Norton
B. E. Rhodes
632....E. M. Moore, SW................ 73.08
R. A. Lederle, JW
B. T. Salmon
633.... fn~~::,r~w.................. 51.21

1:

LS. Terry, JW
L. C. Drapeau, PGM............
E . R. Conly
C. C. Fouhse
G . S. Harts, Sr.
A. T. Mead
63L.R. E. Avery, M......................
E. B. Robinson, SW
A. D. Keyfel, JW
635 .... W. R. Jones. SW................
E. W. AI.'lObrook, JW
G. F. Black
C . H. Grace............................
636.... 1. M. Wyrick. M..................
R. S. Young, JW
R. A. Crigler, AGL...............
C. D. Kidd
637.... R. E. Yoder, M......................
A. Huntsma n. SW
M. H. Borchardt, JW
). A. Jackson
638 ....E. E. Metz. M
G. H. Richards, JW
D.R. Lane
639...J g~}~nti. ~w........................

SO.Si

59.08
6HO
64.iO
56.12

56.12
56.li

56.12

I. B. Puskin, JW
A. Oritz;
A. Dvorin
6il....T. Khatchikian, M................ 56.56
M. Hi~a. Jr .. SW
612 .... G. Barnes. Jr., SW............ 47.60
. R. Grebil, JW
. M. Sheegog
6iL.M. C. Auldridge. M.............. 60.06
S. A. Maurstad, SW
A. L. Cruchley, JW

f.

381

No . of
Mile.
Representafive1
Lodge
Allow
6iL.W. E . Williams. SW-......... 59.78
W. B. Marshall, JW
615....R. D. Gallareto, SW.......... .. 60.20
G. 0. Parra, JW
E. J. Walker, Insp ............... .. 60.20
W. W . Garrison, Jr.
616 ....R. R. Snyder, SW ............... . 56.12
R. V. Fulkerson, Jr.
617 ....P. L. Boling, M ...................... 57.96
J. B. Clements, SW
A. M. Schellhous, JW
A. Owen, lnsp ................... 57.96
C. White
. G. Williams
618 .... 0. G. Pike, M .........- ............. 63.56
H . L. Knick, SW
H . W. Robhins
J. L. Ousley
H. E. Wainwright
649....E. A. Weirick, M .................. 57.26
F. A. Machner, SW
D. T. Parton, JW
G. W. Lisk
650.... J. B. Laumann, M .................. 56.12
D. J. We.Us, SW
R. E. O lander, JW
G. W. Burch, Jr .................... . 56.12
H. J. Cameron
J. F. H enry, Jr.
W . G. Lee
\V. E. Robertson
R. S. Smith
J. W . Swank
651....F. W . Dicstcl, SW............... . H8
R. J. Paroli, JW
D . \Vright. G. Tiler
R. Christiansen
R. Hodge
652....H. E . Allcock, M .................. 56.28
G. M. Hamill. Jr .. SW
.F. B. Robertson, JW
653....C. H. DeMington, SW....... . 64.5~
R. K. Sichley, JW
0 . C. Kennode
651 ....W. S. Van Deweghe, M. .... . 57.26
655 ....G. S. Davis, M..................... . 60.06
R. J. Epps
656....R. Griffin, Jr .. M .................... 59.78
P. Campbell, SW
W. E. Reineke. JW
657 .... F. J. Leippe.r. M.................... .. 73.08
G. W. Ballard, SW
R. W. Alston, JW
P. Crittenden
E. E. Taylor
658.... J. L. Bolton, SW............. _.... . 15.96
659.... J. E. Mimoso, M .................. .. 59.36
B. R. Airey, JW
R. L. Blurton, ln.sp................. 59.36

l

382

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow
660.... A. A. McGee. M.................... 58.66
L. Stever, SW
J- G. Shepard, JW
W . A . Sawyer
66 1....E. G. Grechanuck, SW........ 56.42
G. F. Varner, JW
662....J. V . Ketchoyian, M.............. 56.42
H. L. Wyatt, JW
S. R. Howell
P. R. Nichols
H. B. Keeling
663 ___ J, E . Clausen. SW................ 52.08
P. E . Stevens, lnsp............... 52.08
665 ....M. F. Weeks, SW ................ 32.62
L. R. Pritchard, JW
666 ... .R. C. Hartmann, M ...-------·----- 54 .32
F. C. Potter, SW
J. R. Vickers, lnsp................. 53.90
F. S. Barnard
A. W. Dryden
667 ....R. A . Dotterer, M................ 56.00
D. H. Miller, SW
D. E. Reid, JW
R. L. Peterson. lnsp............. 55.02
F. W. Raddatz, lnsp............. 56.00
J. M. Swan
668....M. A. Ramsour, SW............ 68. 18
D. R. Miller. JW
V. C. Mills
669.... H. L. Little, M ...................... 7.00
R. R. Squires. SW
L. G. Dozier. JW
W . H. Reed, lnsp... ................ 7.00
H. Pritchard
670.... H. D. Bailey, M.................... 57.82
L. 0 . Johnson, SW
T. A. Miller, JW
K. E . Turner
67 1....G. H. Turner, M-------- ------- ----- 64.82
D. H. Blakelock
672 ....J. H. Penna, M...................... 63.70
W.R. Harper, SW
W . B. Sorrells. AGL............ 60.62
W . H. vVayman. lnsp........... 64.82
W . R. Hoover........................ 63.70
C. E . Logan
673 ....C. H. Kiefer, M
J. W . Springer, SW
C. L. Foster, Insp.
A. A. Baker. Jr.
J. S. Carpenter
R. Van Heekeren
W . C. Kunz
R. E. Mason
C. M. Prior
E.W. Quon
A. S. Sandell
S . M. Tatarian
67-L.M. B. Glock. SW................ 60.06
J. Friedland, JW
A. J. Sissons

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representative s
Allow
675.... F. C. Shaw. ER.................... 12.74
H. H. Coleman, JW
676 ....F. C. Geer. M........................ 7.00
R. F. W a rd. SW
0. C . Foster, JW
W. E. Eilers, Insp................. 7.00
C. R. Carpenter
T. D. Webster
677....T. I. Baker, M...................... 56.42
H. W. Burson, SW
W. Miller, JW
F. Porter, JGW................ 62.02
. Meyer. PGM.................... 57.54
W. A. Fishback, lnsp........... 56.00
T. H. Wright
678 .... J. M. Crawford, M................ 57.40
J. R. Young. SW
T . F. T olbert, Jr.. JW
S. C. Pullen
679 .... M. J. Ott, SW...................... 51.10
R. L. Fuller, JW
680 .... H. C . Weston, Jr., SW........ 17.36
R. Thompson, Sr.
R. E. Tilly
681....V. R. Eppler, SW................ 19.88
R. D. Crowe, GP.................. 19.88
J.M. Eppler
E. Mason
682.... L. E. Perkins, SW................ 58.10
D. R. Edmonson, JW
V. B. Claypool
R. P. Higgins
N. Smith
683.... F. Higley, M.......................... 29.54
684 ... .E. R. John, M....................... 59.22
L. A. Blaclcmun, lnsp............. 58.66
H. I. Lineback
685 .... P. M. Swanson, M................ 57.82
K. E. Hooton. SW
J. W . Dunn, Jr .. JW
S. J. Collins, lnsp................. 57.82
W. G. E. Irwin
A. G. Parisi
W. J. Williams
686....C. E.. Noble, M
R.R. Grisham, SW
J. H. Eichner, Jr., JW
687 ....M. F. Schuster, S W............ 69.58
L. H . Field, lnsp................... 69.58
A. H . Chung
688.... E. A. Goss, JW.................... 40.46
689....H. K. Schmidt, M .................. 29.26
R. P. Ditton. JW
690....H. E. Imbody. M
R. H . Fronberg. SW
S. B. Armstrong, JW
E. R. Baylis, Insp.
691....R. J. Francis, M.................... 56.42
M . L. Hamm. SW
C. D. McMillan. JW

k

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representative s
Allow
692 .... P. L. Young. M.................... 12.04
J. W. Bolen, Jr.. SW
H . D. Brainard
693 ....C. H. Davis, M .................... 71.68
R.
Greqory. SW
S. E . Carrier, JW
R. S. Bertrand, JGD.............. 71.68
H. 0. Gordon, lnsp ............... 72.10
F. A. Morrison
694 .... I. A. Hofmann, SW........... . 58.10
H . A. Rutherford. JW
695 ....D. K. Ingram, M ................ .. 40.46
J. D. Henslee, SW
J. Denney. JW
K C . Cummings
G. Petersen
696 .... G. A. Barlow, SW.............. 73.08
E . F. Sheffield
R. S. Wilkinson
697... .L. Berg, M
J. R. Spratt, SW
R. H. Burrows, Insp.
W . McCosh
W . R. Meyer
J. S . Pursley
698 .... D. E. W olfsberger, SW...... 56.42
699 ....F. A. Malan, M .................... 60.06
H . D. Lemons, SW
W . T. Killingsworth, JW
700.... W . A. Tarver, M ................. . 25.62
T. C. Lindsey, SW
C. A. Richardson
701....C. S. Andersen, SW............. . 42.00
702 .... G. F. Parker. Jr .. SW.......... 57.68
J. A. McCaddin. IW
703....W . R. Cox, M ..................... . 56.56
J. B. Bennett. Jr., SW
C. E . Donaldson, JW
L. M . Hall
704....D. W. W ells. M
P. L. Hussey. JW
M. J. Lewis, Jr.
H. H. Parsons
705 ....G. C. Otwell, ER
R. P. Partridge, lnsp.
J. L. Wixon
706....G. B. Lozar, M
K. W. Bonham, JW
L. J. Wells
707....H. K. Phillips. ER............... . 26.88
G. T . Koehler
708 ....R. S. Wilson, M ................ .. 64.12
W . R. Ludlam, Jr., S\V
R. E. lngmundson, JW
E. Hill
7C'IL.C. V. McCaul. SW
J. H. Vanden Bos, JW
W . H. Patterson
710....B. L. Worford, M.............. .. 52.64
R. E. Littell. SW
L. F. Sowards, JW

J?.

383

No. of
Mile.
Lodfle
Representative s
Allow
711 ....A. S. Alquist, M................. . 65.66
H. A. Barnes, SW
E. L. Ford. JW
J. D . Williams, lnsp ............. 64.54
A. Hartwell
H.F. Smith
712 ....P. L. Sterner, M ....................
4.48
R. R. Renshaw, JW
R. F. Foote
713....J. E. Elleard, M .................... 3.50
C.R. Hurlhey, SW
H. A. Tohnson, JW
G. E. Patterson
714.... C. Schellenger, M
S. R. Rey, SW
H. H. Highsmith, JW
H. E. Olson
J. E . W eston
715 ....V. Petersen, SW................ .. 55.44
R. E. Goodall, Jr., JW
W. L. Byram
716 ....T. H. Nelson, M .................. 60.06
H. C . Umbarger, SW
G. W. East, 1W
0. D. Akin
71 7....C. J. Barkley, M ................ .. 57.82
E. C. Elvin. SW
C. W. King, JW
718.... E. F. Russell. SW ................. . 10.08
719....F. K. Osborn, SW ................ 33.18
R. Shultz, JW
720....R. F. Peebles, SW ................ 31.36
721....J. N. Ludwin, M .................. 54.60
A. Tobey, SW
W. R. Banks, JW
722 .... H. R. Ames. M ..................... . 7.42
J. B. Bertino, SW
A. N. Bilardi, JW
723....J. M. Kennedy, M
R. L. Nicolai, SW
S. R. Williamson, JW
724....P. J. Schuman, M ................. . 4.62
N. Perlmutter, SW
L. Tromp, JW
725 .... R. L. Kerr, M .................... .
3.50
B. D. Cook, SW
...
G. C. Connors, JW
M. H. Quinn
726....J. H . Shaffer, SW................ 65.52
R. G. Finley. JW
72 7.... ·l·H~ci!~~l~WM ................ 56.00
W. E . Bergdahl
P. B. Stone.............................. 55.H
728.... W. T. Kirschner. M............ 58.80
E. L. Geveshausen. SW
k_· 0. Mason, lnsp................ . 60.06
. L. Hemphill... ................... 60.06
729....W. T. Craig, M ................... 58.38
L. T. Hanlon, SW
.

f

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

385

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

384

Mlle,
No. of
Allow
Repre!lenfstlve:t
LcdQe
717 .... M. M. Cash, SW.................. 73.92
748 .... H. V. Friar. JW.................... 62.72
G. W. Whelchel
749 ... S. G. Daniels. M ................ .. 17.92
W. A. Jensen
750.... V. Ruzich. M ..................... .. 60.31
J. V. Latham
F. J. Rector
3.92
751....H. C. Jackson. Jr., M .... ·-·····
733.... A. Alexander, M.................. 12.04
}. E. Hoekman, SW
J. Billups, S\V
G. J. Roth. JW
B. Kuenneke, JW
R. W . Bussman
7.56
K. Chase
752 .... J. W. Leach. M ................. ..
J. Robinson
W.W. McNulty. SW
R. K. Titus
753 ....G. R. Hartman, M ................ 57.96
D. \Viswell
D. E. Covington. JW
731 ....J. E. Roderick. Jr .. M.......... 12.04
0. T. Vandagriff, Jr.. M
....
754
J. C. Neely. SW
A. L . Jones, SW
P. Madsen. JW
C. S. Freeman. J\V
735 ....W. Monroe, M .................... 71.96
755 .... M. C. Maple. JW ............... . 57.40
W .W. Shirley. SW
756 .... H . C. Roe. M....................... . -f.34
J\V
W. F. Bower,
W. J. Martin, SW
G. \V. Steil
J. Brouss
736.... A. Hutchings, M.................... 74.62
757... .A. L. Godi. M....................... . 10.92
V . D. Riska. SW
G. C. D arrah, SW
G. J. Bell. JW
C. N. Clarkson
C. T. Hobbs
758 .... L. C. Hall. M .......... . ............. . 58.66
T . E. Parsons
J.P. Lackey, SW
737 .... W. R. Morrison. M
C. W. Schwahn. Jr., SW
J. L. Hawkes. JW
}. Burszan. Jr., lnsp.
759 .... P. A. Morris. M .................. 58.10
E . L. Oaks
E. H. Berutto, SW
738 ....C . N. Story. SW.................. H.68 760 ....J. E. Mikol, M...................... 71.18
P. H . Krauter,
C. F. Jacobs, SW
739 ....L. T. Hodge, r .. SW.......... 56.28 761....D. M. Wilcox, SW............ .. 4.48
R. R. Beal, JW
W. P. Davis. JW
710.... R. K. Tassie, M...................... 57.96
J. J. Williams. lnsp............. .. 1.18
B. R. Doyle, SW
H. E. Simons
S. Nakamatsu. JW
L. Kirby. M
711....C. R. Barrett, M .................. 58.52 762.... A. G.
V an Ness
R.
R. C. Welch. SW
G . W. Claymore
S. H . Millers
M ................... . 56.12
7'12. ... A. D eBocr, M................ ........ 58.10 763....S. L. Shallah,
SW
Berny.
M.
S.
S. Dalmont, SW
N. A. Barakat
B. D. Moore, J\V
764.... D. R. Crawford, SW............ 54.60
A. E. Linde
D. J. Battle, JW
713.... J. B. Twedt, M.................... 56.28
P.A. Basting
G . A. Ki mball. SW
765....R. I. Maggard, M ................ 58.38
711 .. .T. B. Middleton, M
D. C. Zollinger, SW
C. M. Liebert. SW
L. Astorino
E. C. Roulette, JW
P. P. Lucas
C. S. Johnson
H. C. McLendon
f. W. Parker
7f:h....W. A. Mclnt'ire. SW.......... 58.10
R.H. West
C. C. Turner. JW
M
Carver,
715 .... H. E.
W . Robusch, lnsp................. 58.10
E. E. Orner. SW
G. R. Nicks. M...................... 56.-42
....
767
JW
Smith.
P.
A. A. Thompson. JW
R. E. Giesin
E. Young
R. W. Phebus
746..... M. Hudson, M................ 10.64 768 ....J. W. Chesley, M .................. 54.32
L. D. Bass. SW
D . G. Greenwood. SW
A. Schlee. JW
R. Fudge
A. Vv. Wendt

Mile.
No.of
Allow
Representat ives
Lodge
730....A. R. Tanner, M ................... . 12:46
C. A. C1ark, SW
0. W. Gifford. JW
E. E. Seagle, lnsp................. 12.04
731....N. Eichhorn. SW.................. 58.10
R.R. Chambers, J\V
732....~: ¥a°h:Y.'Jtt.. ................... 12.46

l

JW

b

0

Mile.
Allow
Repre1Jentstives
Lodge
769....E. G. Buttery. M................. . 54.18
H. L. Chamberlain, SW
G. L . Myers
G. R. Wibon
770....G. T. Loher, Jr.. M ................ 3.50
R. A. McOuney. SW
M. H. Bouchard. JW
K. M. Huffstutter
771....G. Bakich, M........................ 73.08
H . V. Walraven, SW
H. R. Ellis. JW
J. L. Rogers
772. ...D. Stockton, M ..._................. 31.64
773.... B. R. Strickland, M ..... _...... 10.46
K. A. Ward, SW
R. F. Martini, JW
H. S. Little
G. C. Poloyni.s
H. G. Walford
774....G. M. Eguchi, SW................ 285.09
K. L. Look
775 .... K. E. Krauskopf, SW.......... 70.14
A.H. Parker
776....F. L. Flores. M................. ..... 57.82
C. H. Hiatt. SW
777. ...W. K. Head. M .................. 18.-48
A. A. Riva, SW
R. W.Dunlap
W. M. Head
778 ....T. E. Martin, M.................. 59.22
E. G. Van Pelt, JW
B. H . Hamlett
R. L. Riemer........ .................. 58.52
779....C. R. Heinz, M...................... 60.06
W . A. Crews, JW
780....V. Howard, M...................... 56.28
E. V. Johnson. SW
W. H . Crooks, Sr.
78L.G. G. Stuart, M.................... 59.78
R. L. Simpson. SW
6.58
782....R. C. Hennesey. M ................
E. A. Madison, SW
R. H . Bantz, lnsp................. 6.58
783....R. L. Ledwidqe, M .............. 19.00
L. R. Henry, SW
L. M. Howe, JW
R. E. Moore
784....G. B. Weibel. M.-............... 22.68
0. P. Gainer, SW
785....R. H . Pat.zig, SW................ 57.5-f
H . T. Brittian, lW
786....R. H. Rudd, SW.................. 14.00
J. E. Smith, JW
C. E. Yeargain
787....T. H. Baker. M .................... 60.20
T. C. Commans. SW

No.of

788•. .1.DcG~~~· /~................ 28.56

Mile.
No.of
Allow
Repre!lenfstive$
LodQe
789....W. S. Oliver, M ................ .. 12.04
L. D. Skyhawk, Jr .. SW
R. Thompson, JW
J. K. Wilson
790.... W. J. Greenbaum, M............ 52.92
D. G. Davidian, JW
M. E. Balser
791....W. H. Smith, M.................. 52.08
J. W. Mofford, SW
W. H . Harvey. JW
C. B. Tyler
792 .... 0. A. Phillips. M
A. R. Powe.rs, Jr .. SW
T. F. Hoey. JW
793.... S. Esquivel. M ...................... 56.12
794 .... 0. V. Adams, M.... .............. 57.10
N. M. Otis, SW
0. M . Offley. JW
T. W . Heidner. Insp............. 57.54
L. C . Lamb, Insp................. 57.5-f
795 ....M. W. Perry. M.................. 15.10
B. E. Parker, SW
G. L. Dudley. Sr., JW
796 ....A. A. Coricelli, M.. .............. 63.56
J. B. Childress, SW
R. N . Ousley
H. F. Puthoff, Jr.
797 .... F. E. Mendoza. SW............ 56.42
B. B. Levin, JW
798...L. C. Paulos. M
F. R. Jo hnson, SW
A. R. Perryman, JW
\V. A. Brennan
799.... F. R. Davis, M................. ..... 73.08
H. F. Rosenquist, SW
800 .... J. D. Hudson, SW................ 58.24
L. M. Austin, JW
801.... H. C. Karr, M ...................... 285.59
T. Scarlett, SW
802....L. L. Cunningham, ER........ 68.18
G. F. Steely
803....A. L. Rianda, M................. . 15.12
W. R. Willis. SW

I ~.s~~~:~~: W............... 65.10
58.38

804 ...
805 .... J. L. Shaw, M ....................... :
C. H . / ackson, SW
T. F . . M cDuffie, JW
806.... S. E. Turner, M....................
H. E. Thornburgh , SW
D. E. Talley. JW
R. H. O'Brien
807.... R. E. Strite, SW....................
808.... M. M . Webster. M................
J. M. Compton. SW
809.... N. K. Rleffanaugh. M..........
810....F. T . Ewing. SW................
M . T. Ellsworth, JW
811....R. G. Wanless. SW............
K. L Wilson. JW

53.90

53.90
11.18
60.3-f
61.40
55.02

~~?
• o:;, 0

~ ~
'

~
•

~
•

~
•

~ \::''.<:

~

~

~

~

~

.

~~~~~~r~~~rr:-03:00~~~"'­

l..J,)

00

°'

~~~o~>~~~o~~~rro~~.....J

~~~~~
~~~~~~~. ~x~ ~ <n~~
8

QI ;::.. bl '", 8 ,., "O
-· ,.,
"' ;::.. 8 ::r 8 - - 0
~~~~~
::s::r ... ::s~"
gQIQl~~~~ro~
~~c: ~
~~~~O
E
~~='~o ..a:'~
'" n» ..._ ~ N .., ~ ::> tn ""
...
!"' :J ... :J
~(II :r ;::;.
~
?'
;::!. Y' ...
............. ~ ~ Ul
._ ~

~:= ~~!" ~~~ g Cll3:Cll" c3 ~?::;.

~

3:

~~i ~

: ~ \ ~~

\

:

l

~

~

<;

.,,
:0

0

.....
v.
..;.

Vl

Vl

0
°'
°'

Vl
Vl

:..
.....

!='

°'
::.
N

"

~~~
• 0:::::.

Vl

~f: !'>

N

~ t'Z

3: '.?1

Cl

('")

l!I

g
zCl

VI

~ ~9

0

~ ;=-~?0~ ?'~~~ 0~ 00~~ ~ "' ....
n
>'
::-:--<«· :lc rrir::i ~~;,,r
?rnrnrc
r
~~· · ~
z'.:!!.....J.co£1·
0
"O
or"'
<
·
Po
.
.
.
.
Cll
,

'"i

a';I

.....J

~

el

: :x:i 0

~

"fl

:i:

t1l

(/l

"' !!'. :::;. <;

P-."' ~
- ·§
X- VI
: QI C ::r
? g..o
!J ~:.C tit
- :r . N
0 - ;:g "'
!" 0 ~
-;;::s ::>
CJ

i?-<°~'
~
~ "< • ...,.
t;I -

(/),...

; C:.~
~ (/l·
~3:

3 ........ _...:<
"'~<:
~

!:>" !
.,...

._.!"'::>

~
<::""'

::> C.Fl~

•

.

!

:

\

\

B

";;:'.<;!': ~·
<; : "'

i

:

l ~

!

~

~

-:...i

........

!i

~~
. o-·
~ e l'
Ul

Vl

°'
~
°'
:..

-

°'
....00

N

N

UST OF CONS TITU ENT LODG ES

d, Per Capita Paymen ts, Contribu tions.
Wft& Memhen hfp. Charter Dates. Pees, Dues. Degrees conferre
ia Preeplus $1.50 for Masonic Homes, $0.25 for publicat ion, Californ
Lodge
Grand
fur
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita"' includes $2.35
ia
maXJn, and Degree Fees.
tion of $25.00. G. W. Memori al Contribu tion of $1.00 and Californ
Column titled "Membe rs Contribu tions" includes Homes Contribu
Memori al Temple Contribu tion of $9.00.
Member ship statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A. L. 5965.
M e mbers
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges, page 420. Affil.
G. L.
Lodie

No.

I Californ ia .................. _...... 1
2 Western Star ......... ·----- 2
3 Tehama ·········--··· ---··---------· 3
4 Benicia .....................- ......... 5
5 Tuolumne - ..·-·- ··-····-····· 8
6 Corinth ian ·--··--·- ------··· 9
7 San Jose ...............-............. 10
8 Yount .............. .................... 12
9 Nevada .............. ........._..... 13
10 T emple··- -·- -··-··-..··-···-···· 14
11 Eureka ....... - .............. ......... 16
12 La P arfaite Union.............. 17
13 Mounta in Shade --·········· ·- 18
14 San Joaquin ------·-····-···--·· 19
15 Washin gton · -- - ..- ....... 20
16 H awaiian ............................ 21
17 Occiden tal .............. ............ 22
18 Madison ·····-··------····-···--·--· 23
19 M ariposa - - ----·-·- ---···· 21
20 Georget own ..._ ................. 25
26
21 El Dorado ··--·-····-·············
22 Trinity ................................ 27
23 Golde.a Gate ··--·-····--······-- 30
24 Gold Hm -·--·---····· .. ·--···..·· 32
25 Ophir ····-···-··-- -·--·-........... 33
26 San Diego -·-------·-·-··········· 35
27 Howard --·········-----.............. 37
28 Santa Cruz ---·--- -·-··- 38
29 Sacrame nto ·-----·- ·--···- 40
30 Martine z ·····----..·---·······- 41
31 Los Angeles ·---·······--···-···- 42
32 Hiram ··------ ----···- ··-· 43

33 Mount Moriah -··-·----- -- i i

Members

417
234
824
229
286
443
519
550
172
268
400
105
60

777

875
390
577
322
189
73
284
175
494
126
104
1010
271
534
816
422

H)l)I

125
301

Charter
lu ucd

1850 •
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854

Degree
Fen

100
65
100
75
75
75

75

125
50
75
50
100
75
125
125
175
100

78

50
100
75
125
100
50
50
100
50
100
100

75

150
75
100

Fu1

Due•

l nit.

Puacd

R•iaed

Per C•pit•

Contrib.

20

18
15
15
18
12
18
18
18
16
15
12
15
12
12

3
6
14

4
7
12
4

5
9
13
3

1664.30
960.90
3475 .10
947.30
1221.00
1857.50
21 67.40
2266.90
765.80
1308.60
1783.iO
437.iO
281.00
3281.00
3691.20
1630.60
2385.80
1312.10
777.90
306.30
1259. 50
866.50
1998.50
513.10
126.10
4180.20
1105.60
21 80.80
3435.80
1827.70
4894.10
586.40
1213.20

155.00
235.00
515.00
95.00
165.00
190.00
175.00
235.00
70 .00
405.00
680.00
130.00
35.00
505.00
375.00
200.00
350.00
215.00
70.00
105.00
100.00
200.00
190.00
210.00
70.00
1070.00
70.00
340.00
620.00
400.00
1590.00
105.00
175.00

-

JO

-

-

2
5
5

2
-

15
5
10
10

25
-

5
10
2
4

-

I

1
10

-

JO
10

10

15
15
18
15
15
25
15
18
15
12
15
20
12
16
15
21
18
12
15

1

4
4

5

6
2
8
18
3
J
13
10
5
10
7
2
3
10

5

4
6
2
27
2
8
17
10
39
3

5

1
2
9

7

3
10
20
4
I
10
8
3

5
8

-

2
10
3
3
1
6
28

1

1

11
9
2
10
16
1
1
9
9
5
7
11
1
2

7

7
19

1
3
2
4
33
8
7
17

40
3
3

43
2
3

5

8

5

(.;,)

00
--.J

Lodce

No.

De1ree
Peu

Adil.

Dueo

!nit.

Puoed

Raioed

Peu

125
50
65
60
75
50
75
100
50
75
75
100
50
100

10
5
5
5

3
3
4
1
18
3

3
2
4
l
16
4
9
11
3
2
12
16
1

50
85
85
86

3
10

20
12
15
15
15
15
18
20
15
16
12
15
16
15
15
15
12
18
12
16
12
12
15
12
16
16
12
15
16
15
16
20
18
15
12
15
18
15
18
15

5
2
4
3
21
2
12
9
5
1

497
107
400
650
343
i09
615
72
H2
376
573
H7
212
356
216

1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858

16t

1858

Membero

3i Crescent -···-·--····· ··--·-· ··· 45
········ ·-····-···············- 46
35 T exas
36 Forb estow n ........................ 50
37 lllino istow n ····-·· ····-·· ·-···· 51
···· 55
38 Suisu n ···-· ·--··· ·-·-·- .....
56
39 Volc ano ................ .........
iO Sant a Roca -·-·· -··-··-··-···- 57
············"··········· 58
41 Unio n ·---··42 Grav el Rang e .................... 59
····--····-·· 60
43 Plum as ----· ·······44 Live Oak ................ ............ 61
45 Nato ma ··--- ····-- -·--···-··· 64
46 Am;,dor - ·-···-·····--············· 65
47 Morn ing Star ················· -· 68
48 Ente 1,tse .......................... 70
49 Bear ounta ln ................- 76
50 Cala veras ···-······---················ 78
51 Hum bold t·---- -·-···········- 79
52 Ione ······ ·--- ··-·- ····-- 80
53 Yolo ··-·- - · - - · · -- 81
54 Vesper ···--···-·-····-·- ···· 84
55 Nava l ··--·-···········----···- · .. ···· 87
89
56 Rose 's Bar - ·----· ····· ..······· 91
57 Nort h Star· ····-- ···············
58 St. H elena ··--·-····-··········· 93
59 Henr y Clay ··-···· ······-········ 95
60 Hom itos ···-············ -······· ·- 98
61 Yosemite ·····-- -----.. ·-····· 99
62 Clay ·······-· -····-· ·· ................ 101
63 Orov ille ·····-· ········ -· .. ·····-·103
..···..···104
64 Lexin gton -··-·· ····-··
65 Arca ta ................................ 106
66 Pajar o ........ ........................ 110
67 Chic o ..................................111
68 Summit ......................... .......112
69 Eden ......................... ........... t 13
70 Conc ord ......... ..................... 117
71 Pidel ity .................,......... ... 120
72 Alam o .................................. 122
···-··········-·· 12-3
73 Sotoy ome ········
71 Tabl e Mou ntain ................12-t
75 Lafay ette ···- -·- -··· -126

~ ~ - ---····--1'¥18

········ ·-····· ·········-···12
78 NI•
79 vJcola~ ······· ··-·····............ 129
·····..······· 131
80 s· ~ndge -····
81 Vnce nty .......................... .. 132
......... . 134
.........
82 V alavi lle .........
83 pa ~ey ......... ....................... 135
84 cac16c ........ ........................ 136
85 cr~ett ......... ................. ... .139
86 G:rh s ................. ......... ........ 140
afton .............................. 141
87
g~nklin .............................. 143
88
89 v~ien~l .................. ......... .. .144
90 Ahtru v1us ........ .................... 145
146
91 Eei~ .......................... ..........
92 La Iver ............................ 117

:::::::: :::::: l~6
~3 Mcli~~ ::::::::::::::::::.........
........ 156
~ Woo dland .........

................ ............ 161
9 Keystone
164
~6 Harmony ........ ....................
io r ................. ........... 166
7 E xcelseda
............................ 167
98 Alam

l~ R~~ood City .................... 168

101 jt1ss1on ........ ......... ............. 169
tk Grov e .......................... 173
102 0 rytow n ...- ...................... 174
175
I~ Antio ch ......... ......... ......... ...
Phoenix .............................. 178
1
05 ~endocino .......................... 179
~06
etaluma ........................... . 180
rn~ ~~cld Rive r ....................181
e ............................ 182
109 ~.lear Lake ................ .......... 183
110I d erra V a lley .................... 184
1 l 2 Elai~me ............................ 185
K v.enmg Star ......... .............186
1113 e1th .................................... 187
188
J~ Oakl and ................. .............
1 ~or~hern Ligh t .................. 190
.191
116
117 S arm ........ .................. .......
anta Barb ara ........ ............ 192
193
118
1 9 ~mdale .............................. 194
o untaln View ................
0 Buckeye ·····-· ······· ··---······ 195

d

Cbarter
lNuecl

221
52
H2
79
312
123
650
698
103
179
846

388
95
659
370
79
129
515
99
109
2H
1134
73
91
134
82

105

563

HO

196
93
3H

96
511
423

96

106
H6
281
IH
371
263
246
161
318
47
30
378
325
667
565
HS

75

.ffi2

756

Ill
335
123
85
156
29
80
81
195
701
128
529
378
86
112
139

1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
186 1
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864
1861
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869

-10
5
10

-

5
5

-5

50

5

--

50

-

100
75
50

10

5
5

so
so

2

so

10
10

50
90
50
65
125

-

-5
5

-

75
75

-5
-10

90
50
105
75
100

15

-

75
75

80

»

100

75

50

50
135
115
50
100

75
75
50
75

.

2
I

100
50
50
50
100
50
50
50
50
100
102
100
100
50

50
75
75

100

.,

5

2J

1

~

2

20

-5
5
-

12
20
25
5

-5
10

-

-

1
2

5
5
5
I

so

10

5

-5

5

80
75

-5

50
115
50
50
50

-25

50
75
65
100
75
50
100
85

1

5
5
2
1
5
10

-

5

25

•
ll
15
12
15
18
24
15
16
15
15
12
25
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
16
12
15
16
18
12
18
15
12
16
15
12
15
18
18
12
12
15
12
18
15
15
18
18
15
12

11
10
4
2
9
12
3

7
10

4
17

11

7
2

l

2
10
3

-

4

15
9
5
2
1
3
13
3
13
13
8
10
10
4
6
9
15
14
9
6
3

G.L.
Pu Capin

888.4 0
290.20
600.5 0
398.9 0
1385.90
i84 .60
2738.30
2869.40
56'!.30
769.80
3478 .30
1750.60
i 55.20
2864.50
1540. 00
350.60
525.70
2210.50
535.70
iH.8 0
1171.20
i 61 3.00
669.30
445.80
532.80
340.2 0
532.30
2260.30
43HO
1803.60
2730. 10
1532.30
1809.40
2389.00
331.1 0
18'11.60
1603.50
2460.70
1996.40

11

9

13

2
10
3
1
5
15
11
5
3
1
2
11
2
13
11

1
9
2
1
5
13
10
5
3
2

l

-

15
3

H

8
6
6
12
6
6

7
7

11

5
7

11
II

11

15
II
10

11

1045.00

7
7

7

3
14
4
4
3
9

l
ti
1
3
2
12

7

3

6
13
2
4
2
Ii
I
5
1
I
I
2

714.30
1399..10
614.90
950.5 0
493.30
H 07.80
394.60
20 16.10
1709. 40
385.30
467.50
602.60
1245. 90
613.30
1640.90
120"1.30
1077.30
687.60
1290.10
190.60
123.00
1547.60
1526.90
2660.80
2567.20
718.90
373.3 0
1716.70
31"17.10
49 1.00
H 29.30
556.80
386.40
8 16.30
118.9 0
321.70
368.10
796.3 0
3010.00
527.30
2273.30
1649.10
364.60
1738.90
679.90

5

-

1

5
7

1
1
2

6

8
9

4
l
6

4

7

-

-

7

-

4
27
18
8
1
3
7
17
1
9
2
2
13

-1
1
2
9
5

7

10

4
7
3

5
3
6

6
4
I

5

1
26
21
8
2
I

5

17
2
11

-

8
9

2
9

-2
-1
7

9
9
10
4
10
1

-

1

4
26
18
8
3

-7
17
2
9
I
3

-

7
3

2
5
9
8
13
4

10

1

315.00

\05.()()

872.00

3
2
1

--

165.00
550.0 0
340.00
175.00
70.00
35.00
105.0 0
515.0 0
105.0 0
455.00
555.0 0
280.00
375.0 0
375.0 0
165.0 0
235.00
315.0 0
675.00
515.00
245.00
105.00

4

-

00
00

175.00
70.00
140.0 0
105.00
760.00
70.00
H5.0 0
340.00
200.00
35.00
270.00
425.00
H 0.00
670.00
245.0 0
70.00
70.00
350.00
130.0 0

1704.10

4

-

v.>

Membcro
Contri b.

515.00
140.00
140.00
105 .00
415.0 0

-

320.00
105.00
95.00
35.00
35.00
225.00
245.00
235.0 0
245.00
H 0.00
35.00
210.00
140.00
1020.00
740.00
280.00
H 0.00
105.00
215.00
620.00
35.00
340.00
70.00
70.00

505.00

--

35.00
35.00
70.00
350.00
175.00
355.00
500.00
165.0 0
280.00
105.00

v.>

00

'°

Lodi•

No.

121 San Sime<>n ........................ 196
122 Wilmington ........................198
123 Hartley .............................. 199
124 Truckee ..............................200
125 Silveyville ..........................201
126 Pentalpha ..........................202
127 Confidence ..........................203
128 Salinas ................................204
129 Olivet .............. ....................205
130 Stanislaus ..........................206
131 Anaheim ............................ 207
132 Rio Vista ............................ 208
133 King David's ......................209
134 Friendship ..........................210
135 San Benito .......................... 211
136 South San Francisco.......... 212
137 San Buenaventura ............214
138 Oak Grove ........................ 215
139 Doric .................................. 216
HO Monterey ............................ 217
141 Mosaic ................................218
142 Speran:z:a Italiana .............. 219
143 Downey ..............................220
144 Inyo .................................... 221
145 Roseville ............................ 222
146 BakeTsfield .......................... 224
147 Brooklyn ............................225
148 San Mateo ..........................226
149 Athens ................................ 228
150 Solano ·························-·····229
151 North Butte ........................ 230
152 Covelo ................................231
153 Janesville ···-·······················232
154 Calistoga ............................ 233
155 Hope .................................. 234
156 Surprise Valley ................ 235
157 H ills Ferry ........................236
158 Guadalupe ···- ·····················237
159 Colusa ................................240
160 Santa Ana .......................... 241
161 Magnolia ............................242

162 Eucalypwa -···············-···Ml
161 Aka1qa ---·--···-···.2+t

16f L.urel -·····························-24S
J6S Pomona .... :.~ :::.:::::..:.= ........246
166 Presno ................................ 247
167 Alturas ................................248
168 Adin .................................... 250
169 Landmark .......................... 253
170 Reading .............................. 254
171 Welcome ............................255
172 Lodi ....................................256
173 Penrhyn .............................. 258
174 Evergreen .......................... 259
175 King Solomon's Seaport.... 260
176 Tuscan ................................261
177 Lompoc ..............................262
178 Hesperian .......................... 264
179 Orland ................................265
180 Galt .................................... 267
181 Durant ................................ 268
182 Olive Branch ......................269
183 Snow Mountain ................271
184 Pasadena ···········-···············272
185 Anchor ................................ 273
186 Arroyo ................................ 274
187 Oakdale .............................. 275
188 Selma ..................................277
189 Southern California .......... 278
190 Hanford .............................. 279
191 Madera .............................. 280
192 Mount Shasta ....................281
193 Calayomi ............................ 282
194 South West ........................283
195 San Miguel ........................285
196 Paso Robles ...................... 286
197 Winnedumah .................... 287
198 Maxwell .............................. 288
199 Elsinore ..............................289
200 East Gate ·····-···················290
201 Santa Paula ........................291
202 Los Gatos .......................... 292
203 Orange Grove ....................293
204 Traver ................................294
205 Mt. Jackson ........................295
206 Silver Gate ........................296
207 Dunsmuir ............... _...........297
208 Liberty ................................299

M e mbeu

101
662
241
154
153
418
128
60 1
145
678
518
176
401

737

178
204
438
510
372
298
283
211
976
148
497
749
431
61 I
198
522

237
72
148
121
109

IDB

164
245
168
601
514
561
'191

254

432
701

191
92
117
315
200
404
139
713
572
89
297
430
167
8-t
371
305
41
497
608
209
213
219
397
230

282

166
69
562
79
287
237

66
135
601
418

427

378
139
117
1210
246
402

Cbarter
laaued

De11<«

1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
187 1
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876

75
125
65
90
90
100

1sn

1877

1877
1878
1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890

Fee.a

AJ!il.
Fe.ct

Duu

lntt.

t
15
4
4
2

75
50
75
100
99
75

1

15
16
15
20
15
20
12
24
18
15
18
18
15
12
15
15
18
18
18
24
18
12
15
18
15
18
18
18
15
16
18
12
18
12
12
15
12
15
18
18

JO

so

5

75

105
80
75
105
100
100
115
65
95
100
100
100
75

10
10

5

20

1
1

5

1

10

I
10

75

100
125
50
75
100
75
100
90
75

5
10

10

75

50
75
50
50

75
75

115
80
65
50

50

10

5
10

5
5
10

l
2
1

90

90
75
50
75
115
50
100

75

50
50
80

75
75

3

5
2

5
5

115
125

75
75

80

75

75

90
75
105

50

75

75
75

90

5
10
20

I
2

6

7

1

5
2

5

15

8
2
7
13
1
32
3

14
6

4
5
10
2

8
11

5
11
21

2
4
8
'i
2
12

7
5
6
5
1

19
1

16

18

17

19

23

18
18
1

6

2

15

12

7
7
4

11
3

5

7

I
t
1

3
3
2
2

5
11

12

8

8
10
3

I
3

2
2

JS

2

1928.90

12
18
18
18
12
16

7

6
7

7

1036.80

"

8

5

3

9
1

6
9
2

18

12

10

25
15
12
18
18

9
8

l
9
6
10

2
20

2

9
1

17

24

18

9
4

7
2

3

15

29

27

11
6
1
I
7
6
7
IO

IO
5

24
15

18

15
15
20
15
12
20
20
20

12

7

18
18

7
4

18

3

15
18

18
12

18

1
6
2
8
8
7
6
3

2

5

3
2
6
I
7
IO

8
5

2
6
11

6
13

3
3
3
7
8

9

17

11

2
6

3
6
l

5

4

3

2

4

J
2

1
6
14
17
15

12
18
12

1
10

I
4

11
2
4

2
4

5

13
17

5

18
18
20
21

18

18

14

IO

4
9

16

15
18

3
12

12

I
l

60.00
560.00
165.00
H0.00
70.00
130.00
130.00
480.00
210.00
635.00
775 .00

26
10
15
2

18
18

3

75

75
80
50
100
50
125

6
11

448.00
2756.20
1017.90
657.00
607.70
1750.50
537.70
2653.60
668.20
2911.30
2292.00
712 .30
1766.60
3026.30
778.80
660.80
1880.40
2371.90
1495.20
1293.40
1287.30
848.60
4283.50
680.80
2226.60
3114.90
1823.70
2548 .60
8 19.50
2331.20
1211.50
.369.lO
601.50
5 19.70
447 .80
414 .10
880.20
1096.30
731.80
2575.80
2311.10

7

18

IO

2

5

5
4
1
6

Mcmbera

23
12
15
2

16
15
15
18
18

100
75

7

5

1
18

G. L.
Per Capito

21
19
12

5

1

13
6
11
20

1
15
4

Raised

6
7
7

18

100

3
3

Pu..d

3

2i33.40

1831.70
2964 .00
719.40
373.10
458.10
1475.60
866.80
1708.70
536.10
3013.30
2426.00
309.00
1489 .50
1875.30
696.80
401.30
1500.90
1374.50
177.to
22i6.00
2558.00
866.60
1144.90
899.70
1583.40
925.40
1197.90
747.60
282.90
2359.80
311.60
1220.70
1011.40
412.50
558.50
2469.00
19 13.70
1852.20
1660.40
56 !.60
497.70
5 155.30
1066.20
1636.10

Contrib.

w

0
'°

270.00
2 10.00
175.00
85.00
705.00
305.00
70.00
245.00
530.00
60.00
1270.00
105.00
630.00
715.00
210.00
600.00
200.00
245.00
270.00
165.00
70.00
35.00
35.00
200.00
410.00
190.00
820.00
975.00
545.00
95.00

245.00
330.00
420.00
105.00
495.00
315.00
330.00
70.00
700.00
340.00
H0.00
1225.00
4 10.00
210.00
60.00
85.00
245.00
210.00
345.00
375.00
295.00
270.00
175.00
105.00
70.00
210.00
385.00
315.00
120.00
235.00
140.00
35.00
235.00
540.00
645.00
670.00
35.00
375.00
755.00
165.00
340.00

w

'°

LO<lge

.No.

Memben

Charter
J.,u<d

Decree
Feu

209 Redland s ······················--··300
210 Ontario ·-··········-- --·····-·------301
211 Santa Lucia ·······-·----·········--30 2
212 Portervi lle ·········-············--·3 03
213 Reedley .............. ................304
214 Azusa -········----·····················305
215 Ashlar ............................ ....306
216 Santa Monica ....................307
217 M onrovia ···--··············-----····308
218 Delano ............................ ....309
219 Sisson .................................. 310
220 Los Banos .............. ............312
221 Tehacha pi .......................... 313
222 Temesca l ............................314
223 Norwalk ............................315
22i Sanger ............................ .... 316
225 Fallbroo k .............. ..............317
226 Emanue l .............................. 318
227 Hollenb eck ........................319
228 South Gate .............. ......... .320
229 Alisa! ..................................321
230 Alhamb ra .............. ..............322
231 Whittie r .............. ................ 323
232 Corona ............................ ....324
233 Consuelo ............................325
234 Needles ..............................326
235 Long Beach ........................ 327
236 Redondo ..............................328
237 Vallee de France .............. ..329
238 Kilauea ................................330
239 Pacific Grove ....................331
2i0 San Pedro ·····-·--····· ············3 32
241 Alta .................................... 333
242 Covina ................................334
2i3 West G ate ......................... .335
244 Fruitval e .............. ..............336
245 Carquin cz .............. ............ 337
246 San Jacinto -----··· ········-····- -338
247 Fullerto n ............................339
248 Oxnard .............. .............. ..341
249 San Fernando .............. ......343
250 ~ -------------·---·--····-344
1tS
--·
351

194
527
164
502
119
332
335
357
347
252
109
168
183
297
i25
321
175
86
677
+46
211
62i
773
i26
i02
325
618
78 1
123
186
312
559
148
555
1177
743
178
112
405
437
745
512

1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
189i
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902

75
75
75
50
75
115
75
125
120
100
50
75
75
75
115
75

252 .PaJo AJllO ______________ _346
~S3 McKinl ey ----------------······---347
25i San Bernard ino ---·········-····-348
255 Sequoia - -················---------319
256 Palestine ............................351
257 Sunset ................................352
258 P inole ········-····· -- ···· ·····--·-····-353
259 Presidio ..............................35i
260 Hollywo od ........................ 355
261 Mill Valley ........................356
262 Buena Park ........................ 357
263 Golden State ...................... 358
264 Loyalto n ............................359
265 San Francisc o-Victor y ....360
266 Fort Bragg ........................361
267 Charity ..............................362
268 Berkeley .............................. 363
269 Willits .............. .............. ....365
270 Las Pahnas ........................366
271 South Pasaden a ................367
272 Unity ·······················-··········368
273 O cean Park ···················- ···369
274 Amity-S eal Rock ..............370
275 le Progres de l'Oceanie..... .371
276 Gardena .............. ................ 372
277 West Los Angeles..............373
278 Jewel ..................................374
279 Rtchmo.nd ..........................375
280 Francis Drake ------····----·····-376
281 Artesia ----···························377
282 M izpah ................................ 378
283 Fillmore ···········--·-- -------·····.379
284 Hu.ntington Beach ............380
285 Oceansi de ..........................381
286 Highlan d Park ..................382
287 Orosl ..................................383
288 El Centro ............................38i
289 Dinuba ................................385
290 Coaling a ············· -··········-··387
291 Parnass us ······················- --388
292 Palos Verdes -········-·········-389
293 Imperial --- -············- ----------.3 90
294 East Belt ............................39 1
295 West Lake ........................392
296 Ba lder ····························-··--393

7'19
476

1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908

100

169

1005
9 ll
437
291
186
385
1182
441
431
538
87
423
151
197

564
159
1082
545
565
478
523
691
557
480
191
399
444
246
339
23i
366
535
541
Iii
483
287
360
646
690
129
117
650
466

-

--

-15

2
2
-

55
50
JOO
100
100
100
100
115
90
75
125
125
100
125
105
125
53
115
165
100
75
65
125
100
125
JOO
65

75

.

75
100
100
100
75
100
125
100
125
100
50
100
75
100
75
75

75
11 5
100
115
100
175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
75
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50
100
100

G. L.

Aflil.
Fut

-

5
5

-

-

1
25

-

12

-

5

-

25

5
-

-

10

JO
-

s
-10
1
10

-

20
-

5
-

5
1
5

-

-

-

1
5

-

25

-

s

25
1

-

-

-

-

10

-

-

5
10
20

Ouu

lnir.

18
18
15
15
15
16
18
15
25
18
18
18
18
20
50
12
15
15
15
18
18
18
16
20
15
16
16
16
15
15
20
24
12
18
18
18
15
18
21
25
20
15
15

7
13
2
17
6
6
4
5
13
7

12
15
15
24
18
20
18
18
18
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
18
20
16
18
18
18
15
16
17
12
12
18
18
15
15
15
15
15
20
18
12
15
18
18
18
15
15
18

4
18
3

8
21
6
3
1
6
5
8
10
21
6
15
2
9
26
i
i
5
27
3
28
21
18
2
3
17
16
18
7

Railed

Per Capita

Contrib.

7

10
15
2

2142.IO
2236.90
770.30
2205.20
849 .60
1'158. I0
1382.40
1623.00
1549.40
1130.60
447.70
984.70
757.40
1251.30
1998.20
1395. 10
760.50
378.30
2818.80
1785.60
873.70
2676.00
34 16.30
1751.30
2391.70
1328.40
2557.10
3310.90
568.90
874.50
1313.90
3355.10
299.60
2519.70
4927.80
3174.00
7 11.20
534.20
1866.30
1896.10
3277. 20
2007.20

345.00
505.00
170 .00
595.00
235.00
235.00
H 0.00
175.00
480.00
270.00
li0.00
655.00
130.00
355.00
760.00
210.00
130.00
35.00
210.00
200.00
330.00
375.00
835.00
260.00
725.00
70.00
390.00
1060.00
140.00
140.00
225.00
1020.00
105.00
1005.00
785.00
655.00
70.00
105.00
645 .00
685.00
655.00
270.00

11
3
H
6
3
5
3
11
5
3
22
3
8
20
1
2
1
5
3
7
9

11
4
3

4
5
10
5
2
15
3
9
17
2
3
1
5
2
10
10
9
9
10
2
10
19
6
3
9
25
4
20
17
16
2
1
10
14
19
13
JJ

14
8
H
2
8
26
1
i
8
2i
i
19
H
17
2
l
12
14
23
11

J2

12

12
4
2i
5
6
5
9
1
17

14
2
23
4
5
5
II
2
23
11
26
1

13

5
2
9
lO
9
30
7
lO
10
10
6
21
11
2
4

3
1

9

27
3
1
5
3
12
7
6
31
i
9
8
11
10
21
16
3
3
8
6
3
5
17
15
11

-

10
2
7
9

H
i

2
7
11

Membua

Pa ... d

-

5

5
2
i
18

13
8

l
7
2

9
10
15
5
6
7
13

4
26
4
5
6
12
2
28
11
26

-

IO
11
5
26
9
11
12

7

10
19
10
4
3
7
9
l
5
13
14
7
1
7
3
7
9
16
i
7
5

9

785.60

·HS.DO

3268.30
2009 .30
4352.50
3709.30
18 14 .00
1223.60
8 11.30
1542.50
4902.60
1865.90
1936.90
2234.70
392.70
1743.60
695. 10
1022.30
2254.30
671.90
4421.00
2226.20
2344.20
1996.10
22i 0.40
2920.90
2507.80
2124.50
783.90
1672.70
1815.80
1090.iO
1441.30
973.iO
1668. 10
2275.00
225i .50

5i5.00
215.00
890.00
200.00
2 10.00
175.00
340.00
35.00
620.00
3i0.00
1095.00
105.00
35.00
200.00
105.00
470.00
270.00
210.00
11 85.00
165.00
i15.00
330.00
385.00
435.00
835.00
560.00
105.00
l05.00
280.00
235.00
l05 .00
200.00
620.00
575.00
410.00
25.00
350.00
95.00
245.00
3 15.00
565.00
165.00
70.00
295.00
385.00

609.20
2 158.80
11 84.1 0
1505.30
2654.20
2890.70
537.80
41 6.50
2925.70
1879.90

lo>)

N
'°

Vl

'°

~

Lodge

No.

297 Univer sity ·······-··········-······394
298 Turlock ·······················-· ····395
299 Apollo ·····························-··· 396
300 Rising Light ·········-· ·····-···3Q7
301 Fratern ity ·····················-···399
302 Burlin'-9a me ........................400
303 Bay lew ·········-·· ············ .401
301 Brawle y ···-····-···················402
305 Yerba Buena ......................103
306 Glendo ra ............................iOi
307 Moneta ..............................405
308 Burban k ············ ···········- ·····406
309 La M esa ···············-··········· 407
310 Sierra Madre ......................408
311 Honolu lu ............ .................409
312 Charter Rock ·········-·········410
313 Perris ..................................411
314 Calexic o .............................. 112
315 Arlingt on .......................- ...414
316 Silver Trowel ···-····-·· ·······415
317 Lindsay ..............................416
318 Clovis ··················-···············417
119 Elysian ············· ··-···············41 8
320 Upland ................................41<)
321 Kerman ..............................420
322 Inglewo od ..........................421
323 Eagle Rock ............. ...........122
324 York ....................................423
325 Exeter ................................421
326 Holtvil le ............................125
327 Midwa y .............................. 426
328 Chino alley ················-···427
329 San Dimas ···-·················-····428
330 Pittsbu rg ·-·························.429
331 McClou d ............................430
332 Alpha ..............·-----·-·· ........431
333 Hammo nton ···-·-········-·····43 3
334 Marico pa ........... - ........- ..-.431
335 Fairmo unt ·········-·-······-·····-435
336 Clarem ont ······················-···i36
337 Lancas ter - ·- ··· -··- - - -137
338 Tyriao ····-···· ----···· --··139
339 Staada rd -·-··
..... 440

.HO Coran• do ········-··· ·············of.ft
loft Blackm er ······-·······---~-: .......442
342 SchoBeld ............. ...............443
343 Carpint eria ··············-········H i
344 Wilshir e ............ .............
...i-45
345 La Puente ..........................446
346 T orrance ............................447
347 Mo unt Diablo ....................448
348 Park .................................... 419
349 Van Nuys .......................... 450
350 M ontebello ........................451
351 San Pasqua l ......................i52
352 Crocke r ............ ..................151
353 Golden West ·········-········· 455
354 Ramon a ............ ..................457
355 Henry S. Onne..................458
356 Riverba nk .......................... 459
357 M ount Oso ........................460
358 Argona ut .......................... ..46 1
359 Paul R evere ..................... .462
360 Morgan Hlll ............. .........463
361 Alta Vista ............. ............. 464
362 Center ···········- ··················.465
363 Liberta s ............ ..................466
364 Culver City ........................467
365 Rockrid ge ···········- ············· 468
366 Yorba Linda ···-·················16
367 Lincoln ................................ 4709
368 .Oelta ............ ......................471
369 Maui ··············-·················.472
370 Blythe ···············-···············.473
371 America ············· ··-·············175
372 Coache lla ............. ...............476
373 T e.mhlor ..............................-477
374 Thousa nd Oaks ................478
375 Golden Rule ......................479
376 Fellows hip ··············-··········480
377 Mt. Davids on ....................i8!
378 Clarenc e F. Smith............. .i82
379 Bell ...................................... 483
380 Albert Pike ·····-·················484
381 Chowch illa ........................485
382 Caledo nia ..........................486
383 V a llejo ···········-···················487
384 Patters on ............................488

Membtrt

467
417
428
919
410
633
638
244
843
273
507
876
640
199

414

241
156
131
245
419
201
578
380
277
148
736
179
323
233
152
133
257

175

356
IOI

495
106

185
381
212
587
236
328

383
1121
314
158
H6
270
6 12
481
382
11 82
703
549
566

504
533
562

147

338
340
573
155
229
521

714
442
394
179
3H
495
190
175
398
276
131
468

709

282
354
314
803
226
167

561

384
178

Charter
lttued

O.gree
fee.1

fee•

Duet

1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
19 12
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914

100

10

18
15
15
15

1914

1914
1914
1914
1914

1914

l91i
19M
1914
!91i

1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
191 5
1915
1916
1916
1916
191 6
1916
1916
1917
19 17
1917
1918
1918
1918
191 8
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

Aflil.

I
-

75
75

100
100
100

75
75

10
3

-

75

25

175
50

75

100
125

50

80
150
90

75

125
100
100

50
75
50

90
65

75
50
75
50

50

100
75
115

75

75

5

5
10
5

3

25
10
-10
-

--

-

100
100

-5

HO

-

50

100
100
110

-

75

100
125
100
115

-

-

10
10

75
100
125

-

75

80
115
100

1
10
10
I
10

75

75
50
75
75

75
100
115
100
100

75

100

75
75

1

10
10

75

75
80
100
100
115
100
100
100
50
75
115

5

25
-

100
110
105
125
125

75

5

-

-

5
5

5
-]
10

10
10

-

15
18
18
18
18

40

12
25
20
15
15
18
18
18
18
18
24

15

20
18
12
15
18
18
15
12
18
16
18
16
15
15
16
20
18
15
18
12
20

15
15
15
18
18
20
15
20
18
15
16
18
12
18
18
18
15
18
18
12
15
18
20
18
20
Ii
15
18
15
16
15
18
20
15
18
12
15
21
20
18
18
16
18
16
18

Init.

8
9
3
9
6
13
13
1
19
6
2
31
8
3
IO
1
12
2
3

r ....d
8
7
2
4
10
6

11

11

17
10
2
25
8
3
IO
2

18
16
I
33
13

-

6
2
6

2

19

6

7
2

5
3
2
6
8
26
8

5

26
11
10
5
6
20

5

3
8
1
9
1
1
10
26

14
3
3

10

1
2
9
2
12

-

8
13
3
7
6
6

4
5

H

10
6

6
9
2
6
3
2
6
6
21

5
23

3
H
17
15
3
29
8
9
6
5
16
1
2
8
3
6

5

1
8
21
20
2
3
16
6
3
1
2
7

-

8
12
7
6
6
7

5

3
12
7
3

Member&
Contrib.

1877.20
1755.70
1742.50
3786.40
1740.00
2558.90
2648.90
1024.80
3603.00
1131.20
2055.00
3870.90
2669.80
896.90
1783.20

330.00
315.00
105.00
390.00
210.00
530.00
180.00
165.00
690.00
285.00
70.00
1210.00
355.00
130.00
375.00
35.00
170.00
70.00
130.00
270.00
140.00
135.00
280.00
385.00
210.00
440.00
35.00
35.00
175.00
35.00
175.00
315.00
350.00
175.00
70.00
165.00
165.00
35.00
210.00
210.00
900.00
270.00

96-HO

1034.60
616.20
973.60
1707.30
860.90
2428.00
1658.30
1259.50
829.80
3032.70
1956. 50
1289.30
996.1 0
6-46.80
1848.40
1107.60
875.iO
H51.90
420.10
2007.60
533.20
75 1.20
1611.00
!016.90

2645.50

1384.50

H

l
37
12
8
6
6
17

•

4
7
1
7
3
3
9
16
19
3
3
8
6
1

5

-

C. L.
Per Capita

1237.00

4
15
11
6
3
11
12

15
7

5

7

9
7

6

10

18
16
11

4
13
6
8
1
8
8
3
3
2

-

7

5

5
19

2
3
1
2
6

7

2
13
10
8
3

1
5
9
10

•

5
14

2
I

5

7

5

5

to

25

4
8
8

5

6
9
1
1

2
1
1
1
6
6

8
7
1

11

7

1
11
8

Railed

2
9

6
12
7
6
9
10
7
3
H
7
5

1669.30

-tM1..50

1661.90
697.60
1945.50
1302.70
2560.50
20 18.40
1569.20
5109.80
2946.10
2263.70
2321.60
228 1.10
2403.20
2262.00
611.70
1478.80
1462.70
2408.50
783.iO

948.40

2303.10
3066.70
1849.20
1578.30
769.70
1523.00
2033.20
853.90
727.30
1621.40
1308.20
500.20
1972. IO
3048.90
1278.20
1532.20
H 36.IO
3276.50
942.60
792.50
2351.60
1679.30
869.70

\,,o
\()
~

140.00

300.00
1065.00
715.00
375.00
250.00
680.00
610.00
410.00
175.00
960.00
410.00
435.00
200.00
210.00
700.00
175.00
105.00
280.00
175.00
365.00
140.00
60.00
350.00
935.00
565.00
105.00
105.00
400.00
140.00
70.00
365.00
95.00
445.00

-

340 .00
455.00
105.00
245.00
210.00
295.00
140.00
175.00
550.00
425.00
235.00

~

\()

Vl

Charter
l11ucd

0.11rcc

Members

Fees

Affil.
f eet

385 East Bay ...........................:i89
386 Corcoran ............... .............490
387 Woodsto ck ........................491
388 Garvanz a ............................492
389 Atascade ro ...................- ...493
390 Acorn ............... ...................494
391 Lebanon .......... ................ .... 495
392 Fremont .............................. 497
393 Stockton ............................498
394 Capital City ......................i99
395 Roosevel t ............................500
396 Westwoo d ..........................50 I
397 Harbor ······--·-·· .................. .502
398 Point ................................... .5~
399 Seaside ............................... .5
400 Silver Cord ........................505
401 Mo unt Olive ............... .......506
402 El Segundo ........................ 507
403 Joppa .................................. 508
40i Benjamin Franklin ............509
'105 Cupertin o ........................... .510
i06 Sunnyva le ............... ...........511
407 Palms ..................................512
408 Cahueng a ............... .......... .513
409 Argonne ............................. .514
110 Vermont Square .............-.515
411 Taft ............................... .... .516
412 Mount Vernon ..................517
113 La Jolla ..............................518
414 Euclid ............... .................. .5 ~i
415 Ionic ....................................5
116 Piedmont ........................... .52 1
417 Sunrise ............................... .5 22
418 BellRower ............................523
419 Catalina Island ............... ... 524
420 George Washing ton ..........525
121 Bay City ............... ............ .5~~
422 Cov enant ............................5
423 Bev erly Hills ..................... .528
424 Loyalty .............................. 5 29
425 Sun Garden ....................... .530
31
. _ , _ ia - - --·--··.5
•
Ar•ndr
______532

286
HO
414
302
152
631
405
513
193
637
198
246
564
345
535
60-i
90-i
485
100
292
252
49"1
479
541
317
i20
29'1
186
3"16
366
1248
232
269
6 71
136
393
412
240
513
721
531
182
216

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
J922
1922
1922

75

10

421 Porrst
Asure - ···--·-··· ·-·- ····-····',,
429

ilO

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
J923
1923
J923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
J923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924

Lodge

No.

75

75
75

75

80
100
100
80
100
100
80

75

75
125

75
125
100
50
100
75
150
125
100
100
100
50
80
115
100
215
80
75
125
135
100
JOO
100
125
150
80
75
70

-

1

-

I
10

10
-

10
15

30

-

--

I

--10
-

5
5

15

-

10

--

25

-

5

--

10

JO

-

10
25
5

5

-

Duct

I nit.

Pa11cd

Rallcd

15
18
18
18
16
24
24
18
18
15
15
18
15
15
18
18
16
18
15
18
15
25
18
18
15
15
20
18
15
18
25
18
18
21
20
18
21
18
15
J8
15
18
JS

2
2
3
2
6
6
7
8
3
11
1
3
9
15
5
28
18
9
3
1
7
10
3
6

1

1

"
1
2

-

3
11
45
1
1
13
1
7
6
3
1
29
15

s

9

-

6
2
6
7
7
8
8
13
I
3
9
16
6

-6

I
6
8
8
8
9
10
1
1
9
13
7

29

30

16
8
3
1
6
16
6
7

15
8
4
2
7
21
4
10

-

I
3
l
3
9
i3
2

-

I
I
1

5
10
51
2

-

-

13
4
5
6
I
4
34
11
2
6

17
2
7
8
3
2
24
16

J

JO

Mcmbd•
Contrib .

G . L.
Per Capita

70.00
70.00
105.00
70.00
210.00
285.00
245.00
305 .00
105.00
385.00
35.00
105.00
315.00
575.00
260.00
1055.00
655.00
315.00
105.00
35.00
270.00
375.00
190.00
260.00
140.00
35.00
70.00

1168:40
616.00
1679.60
1210.40
668.00
2709.40
1744.30
2172.70
794.90
2695.20
8 14.80
1015.60
2393.00
1576.20
2248.70
2679.30
3718.90
2106.20
516.80
118-i.80
!Oi9.IO
2161.00
1927.70
2239.60
1439.60
1696.30
1260.90
740.00
1454.60
1567.80
5593.90
908 .90
11 14.30
2835.40
599.60
1683.90
18 10.10
10 32.30
21 80.00
3197.60
2338.60
927.10
94150

<.»

~

--

280.00
410.00
1825.00
135.00
35.00
180.00
35.00
245.00
24 5.00
10 5.00
60.00
J225 .00
525.00
175.00
JJS.00

.
Hill .......................... 53'1
130 Alexande r HamJJton ......... .535
431 Utopia ...............................537
432 Ascot ..................................538
433 Belveder e ...... ...................... 539
434 Queen Beach ..................... .540
435 H enry M orse Steph ens..... .541
436 N or th H ollywood ..............542
437 Signal ................................ ..543
138 G lendale ............... ...............544
439 V erltas-Jon athan ............. 5 45
HO San Gabriel ........................546
H 1 Arcadia ..............................517
H2 Triangle ..............................548
143 Justice ................................ 549
4H Lakeshor e ......................... .551
HS S emper V irens ..................552
146 Educator ............................554
1i7 White Pine ........................555
148 Fairfax ............... .................556
449 Hermosa ........................... .557
150 Point F irmin ............... .......558
151 Cra ftsmen ......................... .559
152 Plymouth . ...........................560
153 East San Oiego..................561
454 Pyramid ..............................562
455 South Park ............... ........ .563
456 Foothill ..............................564
157 West Adams ......................565
458 James A. Garfield ............. _ 566
159 Searchlig ht ···-- ············..... 567
160 Park Boulevar d .................. 568
161 Chateau Thierry ·--··-···- 569
162 Military Service ................570
163 Francis K. Shattuck...........571
164 Jimes Madison ................ .572
465 illcrest ..............................573
466 S. W . Hackett... .................574
167 Fort Crook ........................575
168 El Cajon Vall ey ................576
469 Sunnysid e ·········-···· ······-....577
170 Progressi ve ··············- ··----578
171 Warren G. Hnrding .......... 579

195
287
581
329
190
183
291
J027
540
793
323
602
625
322
374
263
342
385
105
494
11 8
332
342
385
905
310
385
1005
325
229
431
417
351
303
208
335
71
575
221
596
385
487
666

.

125
JOO
JOO
100
JOO
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
125
100
90
75
100
JOO
JOO
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
75
130
100
100
125
100
125

-10
5

-

-

-

5
5

-

JO
25

-

10
5

-

-

2

25
5
12
5
75

-

-

10
10
5

-

5

10
20
10

lO

21
18
20
16
15
20
18
16

\5

20

11
4
20
6
15
20
7
11
2
1

18
18
18
15
24
15
18
J8
18
J5
12
18
J6
12
J6
15
12
20
J8
16
20
J8
20
18
16
18
18
18
20
15
15
20
15
15
15

2
7
2

5

-

6
9

5
6
12
13
5
2
12
15
7
4
10
4
3
8
6
3
I
2
3

-

11
5
23

5
6
15

19
3
2
1
5
5
7

\8

19

20

3
2
3
8
5
4
2

-

10
11
5
15
21

5
9
3
5
6
3
16
13
5
3
6
23
5
5
19
3

-

8
4
2
2
5
6
l3

8
26
5
12
16

12
9
3
17
19
7
8
3
5
8
5
16

H

1
3
8
21

5
6
21
1

-

9
7
3
3
7
1

-

9
7
23
2
12
14

1906.00
807.50
1202.20
2341.90
1424.60
881.80
873.90
1191.00
4295.70
2242.20
3431.70
1361.00
2709.20
2775.20
1405.1 0
J606.80
1074.00
1408.00
16 16.IO
654.50
21 18.90
1834.20
146 7.90
138 1.50
1744.50
3905.60
1318.90
1626.60
4265.90
1399.80
JOi2.80
1911.60
1757.60
J500.70
1236.00
862.70
1382.40
29 1.10
2529.80
1097.00
2710.10
J565.90
J993.90
2880.60

575.00
70.00
245 .00
70.00
175.00
235.00
365.00

- -

495.00
225.00
750.00
2 10.00
550.00
825.00
270.00
385.00
70.00
140.00
175 .00
210.00
445.00
1 55 .00
200.00
70.00
420.00
700.00
245.00
H0.00
450.00
215.00
J05 .00
280.00
210.00
H0.00
35.00
70.00
105.00
540.00
175.00
1005.00
175.00
235.00
550.00

<..N

\Q

~

Lod11e

No.

472 Santa Maria ......................580
473 Security ............................. .581
474 Rialto ................................. .582
475 Wast:.o ................................583
476 Harding ..............................584
477 Manche ster ........................585
178 Garden G rove ....................586
479 Valley Forge ................. ...587
180 El Sereno ........................... .588
481 Kauai ............................ ..... .589
482 Compas s ........................... .590
483 E scalon ............................. .591
484 Tujunga ..............................592
485 All States .............. ..............593
486 S ervice .............. .............. .... 594
487 Alexand er Graham Be!L .. 595
488 Guardia n .............. ..............596
489 Pearl H arbor ......................598
490 Carmeli ta ............................599
491 Lynwoo d ............................600
492 Grizzly ................................601
493 M elrose ..............................602
494 Dimond ..............................603
495 Jubilee ................................rot
496 Glassell Park ......................605
497 Sojourn er .............. ..............607
498 G ranada .............. ................608
499 Prov ident ............................609
500 Elmhurs t ............................610
501 C anoga ..............................6 11
502 Temple City ...................... 612
503 Three Pillars ......................6 13
504 Larchmo nt .......................... 614
505 H emet ..................................615
506 R . E . D olley ........................616
'507 Big Bear .............................. 617
508 Southla nd ..........................6 18
509 Neptune ..............................619
510 Point Loma .............. ..........620
511 The Gardena ......................621

Membero

126
40 1
335
335
302
326
461
419
123

119

343
163
365
526
906

261

976
631

353

568
119
256
261
428
395
318
784
512
274
484
548
460
371
296
263
161
382
314
711

531

···-----·::m

374
1210

flf PGrtltude -··--624
515 Angeles Mesa ·-······-·
....................62S

219
695
698
31 6
238
297
209
260
8 17
747
293
658
285
429
193
710
205
311
378
380
257
182
588
741
388
251
359
637
397
114
843
265
672
208
289
357
263
401
191
136
880

\\l tr·'="

516 Chula Vista ........................626
517 Lamand a Park ....................627
518 Truth ..................................628
519 Fairview ............................629
520 Ingleside ............................ 630
521 Benevolence ......................631
522 Normal Heights .............. .. 632
523 Poinsett ia .............. ...............633
524 Victorvi lle .............. ......... ...634
525 Riversid e ............................635
526 John M arshall ....................636
527 Palisades .............. .............. 637
528 Indian R ock .............. ..........638
529 Compos ite ..........................639
530 James A. Foshay ................641
531 la Cumbre ........................642
532 Alta Loma .......................... 643
533 Lomita ............................ ....644
534 A. F. E. l rwin.............. ......645
535 Metropolitan ... ................... 646
536 H awthorn e ........................647
537 Damasc us .............. ............ 648
538 Florence .............. ................649
539 La Brea .............. ................650
540 M enlo Park ........................65 1
541 Crest:.en ta V a lley ..............652
512 Fontana ............................ ..653
543 Jo rdan ................................ 654
5H Monte V ista ......................655
515 Citro! .............. ....................656
516 Jo hn D . Spreck els..............657
517 Livingst on ..........................658
548 La Habra ............................659
549 Baldwin P ark ....................660
550 M a lta ..................................66 1
551 Henry Knox ......................662
552 OJai ....................................663
553 Kaweah ............................ .. 665
551 Reseda ................................666
555 Meridia n ............................ 667
556 San Gorgoni o ....................668
557 John P. Jarman. ...................669
558 Greenlea f ............................670

512
272
313
906

Aflil.
fees

Charter
b1ued

D<11ree
Fe:u

1924
1921
1924
1924
1921
1924
1924
1921
1924
1921
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1921
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
l92S
1925

80
100
115
80
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50
125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
75
115
100
100
100
135
100
100
100
100
75
100
125
120
100
75
17S

2S

1925

100

5

1925

1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928

5

5

10
5

100

90

100
!05
100
71
75
100
100
75

175

100
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
125

5
1

Pa11ed

15
23
15
18
l8
20
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
18
16
18
15
15
20

3
9
9

1
8
7
8

4
8
16
8

6

15
20

10
5

5

l

20
10
3

18

18
18
20
20
18
20
18

5
IO

5
10

l

100

5
25

8

12
8
25
4
9
6
11
10
3
13
8
12
13

1

10
12
18
6
15
18
6
18

IO
1
9

9
3
8
II

11
9
10

11
8

6
27

11

11

5

5
29
4

9
7

10
7

11

8

7
3
9
6
11

12

5
3
11

8
12
13
6

1729.80

732.90
1577.20
671.30
1523.50
2527.70
3715.40
1125.20
3983.00
2721.80
1421.90
2138.80
539.20
1181.60
1108.90
1803.50
1660.90
1389.20
3350.70
2138.50
1208.30
228 1.70
2280.70
1914.00

1664.70
1376.30
1438.90
681.40

1710.50

1398.00
3010.80
2258.60
1586.30

5394.20

18
18

6
3

5

a

24
7

19
9
6
2
3
6
17
11
9

935.50
2814.30
3118.30
1318.60
!057.20
1264.70
857.70
1096.40
3527.30
3086.80
1411.20
2826. 10
1223.20
1859.70
792.30
31 53.50
915.30
H 20.10
1534.40
1761.50
1096.40
781.00
2166.60
3089.10
1700.50
1063.90
1731.90
2774.20
1744.30
1710.60
3520.30
1160. 10
2861.30
894.60
1296.70
1748.70
125'1.90
1796.00
896.80
486.60
4072.60
2218.60
1265.20
1401.00
3967.30

15

20
21
21
20
18
18
18
18

15
18
18
15

18
15
18
15
18

15
18

18
15

3

9

3

18
7
6
1
5

155.00
340.00
315.00
385.00
165.00
280.00
610.00
305.00
175.00
235.00
400.00
35.00
320.00
785.00
550.00
175.00
585.00
455.00
140.00
540.00
175.00
305.00
225.00
315.00
315.00
420.00
330.00
420.00
305.00
910.00
215.00
365.00
210.00
570.00
425.00
130.00
505.00
280.00
545.00
455.00
365.00
2220.00

31

18
20
20

90

4

16
13
4
14
5
8

7
IO

512.50
1695.30
1391.40
1570.40
1310.00
1453.50
2027.70
18 14.IO

7
38

15
18

115
90
125
115
75
125
75
50
120
100
75

10
12
6
16
11
6
14
5

6

Membc n
Contrib.

9

20
18
16

125
125
100
125

21
15

I
7

G. L .
Per C • pita

Sl

18

5
5

l

Raioed

15
J6

15

5

5
10

9
12

20
18
15

5
15
9
5
3

7

20
18
20
18

15

5

5

6
10
l

5

18

5

11

18

18

10
15

75
125

75

l nit.

18

10

90

125
125
115
115

Due•

20

15
15
15
15
18

15
12
15

15

24
7
9
6
3
8
26
12
14
14

s
6

4
3
6
21
13
II

6

2
5

17
2
1

21

20

21

29
3
8
3
8
6
3
17
16
6
3

3
5
1

5
6
2
13
8
5
8
20
8
2
7

17
11
6

15
8
13
7

10
13
7

5
7
2
46
H

6
9
16

5

8
2
13
6
3

10

21
3
3
5
18
7
3
16

7

10
5
9

15
5
5
7
1
17
13

7

9
16

6

14
10

2
14
5

15
3
12
12
6
6

7

3

48
12

7
7

23

~

\C)

00

l\0.00
\30.00
915.00
270.00
365.00
21 0.00
155.00
280.00
1010.00
520.00
190.00
575.00
95.00
225.00
800.00
175.00
210.00
70.00
505.00
280.00
175.00
280.00
750.00
280.00
70.00
245.00
745.00
135.00
210.00
575.00
280.00
530.00
215.00
375.00
530.00
245.00
175.00
330.00
95.00
1785.00
565.00
235.00
340.00
560.00

~

\C)
\C)

Ch>.rur
luued

De1ree
Fee•

159
204
319
548
542
114
444
519
131
262
167
463
123
158
471
217
348
283
90
479
456
206
266
284
226
354
279
195
395
383
!Si
255
489
280
223
235
105
523
379
266
192
243

1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
19'46
1946
1916
1947
1947
1917
19'48
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
19SI

100
100
75
175
75
115
125
115
65
75
100
65
100
75
100
75
75
100
50
100
100
100
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80
75
100
125
100
75
100
75
100
100
100
75
100
100

240

1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
195-4
195-4
1951
1954
195-4
195'4
1954
1954
195i
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956

100
125
125
100
100
75
75
165
100
75
75
75
75
100
125
125
100
100
100
90
100
90
115
100
100
125
115
125
115
150
100
100
80
115
75
90
105
100
75
100
75
100
75
80
115

No.

Membcra

559 San Clement e ....................671
560 Laguna Beach ....................672
561 Par West ............................673
562 Los Cerritos ......................67"1
563 Modesto ..............................675
564 Willow Glen ......................676
565 Liberal Arts ........................677
566 Altaden a ...- ....- .................678

Lod1•

~ g:~, ~.~~--::::::::::::::::::::::~6

569 Dos Palos ......... - .... - ........681
570 Barstow .............. .............. .. 682
571 Redwoo d Empire ..............683
572 Trona ...............- ......... - .....681
573 San Marino ........................685
574 Albany ............................. -.686
575 Vista ..................................68~
576 Oildale ................................68
577 Pohona .. -------------------···--689
578 San Carlos ........................690
579 Indian Wells Valley ..........691
580 Travele rs ............................692
581 Palm Springs ...................... 693
582 San Antonio ......................694
583 Meudell ..............................69~
584 Crossroads ........................69
585 Saint Elmo ......- ........... - ...697
586 Wm. D. Ste-phens..............6~
587 Btxtz Knolls ......................6
588 Pon erosa ..........................700
589 Santa Yne:z: Valley............701
590 Rosemead ......................... .702
591 Westche ster .................... ..703
592 Orinda ................................704
593 El Cerrito ..........................705
594 Hunters Point Naval.........706
595 Lake Tahoe ........................707
596 Seafarin g .............. ..............708
597 Loren:z:o .............. .............. ..709
598 Anacaf a ............................71 0
599 Loa
Rim Alto•
o the_______
World..............
711
600
_______712
601 C.-0 Valley _____ __713

602 Blue Laba --·-·--···---··----·----7 14

603 Magnol ia Park ···-----------715
60f Belmont Shore ..................716
605 Wayfar er --------·--·-------.. .717
606 San Lorenzo Valley- ........718
607 Estero .............. ....................719
608 Mineral King ···- ··------·----·-720
609 Home .............. ................... .721
6IO George E. Tutt... ...............722
611 Acalane s .............. ..............723
612 San Ramon Valley ............724
613 Saint John's ........................725
611 Yucaipa .............................. 726
615 Verdugo Hills ....................727
616 Lakewo od --·--------·--··--···--·728
617 Centenn ial ..........................729
618 Polaris ...._ .........................730
619 Two Rivers ........................731
620 San Juan ..........- ...............732
621 Golden Empire ·······----· ·-·733
622 Kit Carson ..........................734
623 Oasis of Mara ....................735
621 Lemon Grove ................._.7'36
625 Hillsbor ough ..... - ...............737
626 Arvin ............... - .................738
627 La Canada .......................... 739
628 Opportu nity ..... - ...............740
629 Tyre ....................................741
630 Morning side Park ............. .742
631 Oakwood ...............- ........... 743
632 San Leandro ......................7H
633 Peninsu la .............. ...- .........745
634 Soquel ............................... .7-46
635 Claude H. Morriso n......... .747
636 Highlan d ...............--........748
637 Merced ......................... - .....749
638 Mother Colony .................. 750
639 Hamilto n ............................751
640 Luther Burbank ................ 752
641 Lawnda le ............................ 753
642 San Pablo ..........................754
613 Golden Bowl ..................... .755
61-4 Clayton V alley .................. 756
645 Channe l ..............................757
616 West Covina -·--·--···------758

339

.321
376
202
102
159
116
568
188
198
165
25-4
232
108
277
169
190
191
236
170
198
131
462
196
135
166
233
267
193
111
210
167
178
H2
216
168
183
159
210
22-4
136
207
287
131
2JO

.

All'il.
Feet

-

l
to

-

10
10

1
-

to
I

-

25
JO

-

-

5
10

5

-

-

10
50
10

1
-

-

I
10
I

-

-

5

5

-

5

G. L.

Dua

!nit.

Paa1ed

lUiled

Per C.pita

Membcu
Contrib.

16
18
18
18
12
18
20
18
20
15
18
24
18
18
18
12
15
18
12
18
17
15
20
16
18
18
18
20
20
18
24
18
24
18
15
20
18
16
18
18
15
20
18

8
5
5
6
15
3
19
6

i
3
6
15
12
8
21

2
3
6
16
12
9
23
5
2
3
5
23
5
2
12
i
11
7
1
16
18
3
9
11

731.80
905.10
1435.60
2349.70
2358.40
1717.40
1885.60
2126.50
551.iO
1155.20
731.70
2569.00
566.00
712.80
2019.20
903.70
1552.20
1236.90
443.00
1992.70
2033.40
891.60
1180.40
1319.20
1411.40
1570.20
1211.90
810.40
1863.00
1632.10
748.40
1107.50
2071.90
1261.90
930.30
1004.40
473.50
2557.20
1570.60
1311.60
885.20
1080.30
1428.90

115.00
250.00
175.00
285.00
575.00
105.00
690.00
210.00
180.00
105.00
1230.00
165.00
95.00
130.00
165.00
440.00
215.00
70.00
215.00
670.00
175.00
375.00
445.00
155.00
375.00
525.00
H0.00
540.00
375.00
300.00
400.00
280.00
440.00
105.00
105.00
175.00
870.00
375.00
405.00
280.00
215.00
520.00

1109.80
1581.10
1680.30
J015.10
502.20
733.90
590.60
2658.80
1041.70
885.80
731.50
1090.40
1019.80
451.80
1383.60
741.70
994.00
881.00
1166.40
1059.00
951.80
659. 10
2002.20
848.50
576.50
765.60
1015.30
1286.50
900.00
495.10
959.90
842.70
786.80
824.20
944.60
885.80
901.00
673.80
1027.90
985.iO
688.60
!Hl.70
1322.70
580. IO
892.90

515.00
1215.00
775.00
315.00
li0.00
245.00
140.00
1375.00
350.00
200.00
270.00
700.00
125.00
105.00
730.00
280.00
585.00
470.00
600.00
i00.00
490.00
390.00
835.00
380.00
105.00
140.00
330.00
625.00
175.00
95.00
495.00
310.00
380.00
635.00
245.00
725.00
530.00
355.00
435.00
375.00
350.00
555.00
530.00
105.00
625.00

-

18
21
16
20
16
15
20
20
18
20
18
18
15
20
18
21
15
16
15
18
12
20
20
18
20
2i
15
16
18
18

JO

20

-1
-

--

IO

--

-

-

10
JO
JO
JO

--

-

10

-

1
-

--

-

5
5

18
15
18
16
15
18
20
15
20
15
15
2i
15
2-t

-3
3
33
i
2
3
4
9
7
2
7
17
5
9
12
13
10
15
4

H
10
5
10
8
9
3
3
5
21
10
8
8

3
12

1't
3-t
20
8
i
7
3
35
IO
5
7
20
10
3
18
8
16
12
15
10
H
9
21
8
3

...

8
15
5
2
12
6
8
16
7
20

13
8
11
10
10
13
12

3
15

-

...
5

...
27

5

1
9
6
10
9
1

H

17
i
10
10

H
12
11
5
10
12
3
7
10
13
5

...

H

10
10
6
15
13
i
10
14
14
8
3
2
18
9
11
10
H

1
23
10
7
JO
7
H

u

11

13

32
14
5

5

24
12
3

5
I

4

5
32
9
5
6

Ii
8

...

13
8
18
12
17
6
12
9
25
7

...

5
10
13
6
5
12
6
8

IO

2
28
11

.

7
15
7
2
11
6
16
8

10
6
9
9
17
9
7
6
7
17
5
8
9

6
6

6

8
18
11
8
II
12
7

9
19
9
10
9
10
9

15

Ii
3
10

14
2

11

11

...ci.

8

-

~

0

Lodge

No.

Mem ben

105
159
130
137
91
154
126
116
12i
86
205
149
140
76
96
154
161
162
118
106
80
124
90

=

~~-----------~

Fee•

Duell

21
18
18
15
15

10

100
100
100
100
140
125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115
100
100
175
90
100

-

5
10

-

10
-

10

-

10
5

10
10
-

75

100
125
125
125
125
75
100
125
100
100

Ii

-

5

12
1

11

9

16
18
18
20
15
18
18
15
15
15

7

10
10
25

-2

7

5

3
19
12
18
3
9
8
8

11

11
3

7

15

13
15
8
15

18
18

10

5

8
13

11

• .,.i
J8

-

-

9
8
4
8
12
17

6
4
9
12
19

2
7
8
14
4
9
2
28

20

5

5

5
7

18
15
18
18

-5

19
9
17
2
11
12
6
16
l
12
4

19
4
19
12

15

10
10

13

7

15

5

75

9
11
7
12
9
17
3
8
7
13
16
10
13
3
11
13
6
16
1
15

20

10
1

100
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
115
100
100

15

12
10
6
9
12
13
4
8
8

11
13
3
8
8
16
21

16
15
15
20
20
18
15
12
18
15
15
15
15
18

5
10

Poocd

11

20

5

I nit.

13
Ii

6
9

M embert
Con trib.

1114.90
60-UO
1024.20
771 .00
8 15.5 0
826 .40
631 .30
710.90
963 .50
120 i.50
1097.70
653 .30
1229.10
298.20
1106. 10
742.60
937 .60
1058.20
259 .40
909 .70
483.50
705 .90
644 .90
571 .70
393 .00
828 .40
766.60
561.60
635.40
352.40
1263.50
713 .90
698 .00
354.60
448 .50
754 .40
925.10
687 .20
622 .80
559.50

610 .00
455 .00
540.00
410.00
435 .00
505.00
130 .00
280.00
305 .00
635.00
835.00
270.00
765 .00
140.00
715.00
445.00
250.00
520.00
35.0 0
435.00
315 .00
175 .00
270.00
95.0 0
270.00
330.00
515.00
1·40.00
365.00
95.00
11 80.00
41 0.00
470.00
105.00
245 .00
530.00
550.00
305.00
525 .00
410.00
400.00
270.00
410.00

5

8
3
11
10
25
2
8

7
7

10

11

10

+95.00

11

542 .40

A

lt

531.00

11

11
6

6\8 .60
559.60

~

0

N

-

-802
690 Yuc ca Val ley -- · -·-····- ---8 03
692 Mo ren o Val ley ···-·
......805
693 Cam ellia ........................
...... 806
694 Simi Val ley ........................807
695 Con ejo Val ley ....................808
696 Sce pter ........................
....809
697 Los Ala mitos ............ ............ 8 10
698 Vic tori a Pal ms ...... ......
....8 11
699 Wo odl and Hills ...... ......
....8 12
700 Triad .................. ............
........8 13
701 Old W est ...... ............ ........8 14
702 Plaz a de Los Ang eles ........8 15
703 Mo unt Baldy ...... ......
............ 8 16
704 Wm . B. Ogd en ...... ......
......817
705 Ma nha ttan ............
....8 18
706 Gre at Lig hts ..................
........8 19
707 Frank S. Lan d ............ ........820
708 Ma r Vis ta .................. .. U .D .
709 Gat ewa y ........................
Nor thern Californi a
Res earc h ............................
Sou thern Cal ifor nia
....
Rest-arch ...... ......................
El Cam ino Res earc h ......
Cen tral Cal ifor nia
Rrs earc h ............................

For membership and deg ree

J\llil.
Fees

~gree

1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
195 8
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
HIO

230
122
192
141
185
17-t
146
159
155
277
239
15'1
211
62
211
167
221
212
54
187

........759
6-i7 El Ran cho .................. ......760
6-i8 Lakesid e ........................
....761
649 Josi ah W . Roller............ ... .762
650 Coa stsidc ...............•........
...... ..763
651 Ara bic ........................ ......764
652 Her itag e ........................
...... 765
653 Dan a R. W elle r ....................766
654 Jam es H. Kew............ ........767
655 Wm . Rho des Her vey......... .768
656 Zen ith ...... ..................
....769
657 Pal mda le ............ ............... .770
658 Lak e Cha bot ............ ......
....771
659 Mis sion Bay ..................
........772
660 Ave nal .................................. 773
661 Tej on ........................ ......774
662 Wa ikik i ........................ .... 775
663 San Die gui to ..................
...... ..776
664 Eas t Wh ittie r ...... ...... ......777
665 Pin nacle ............ ............
........778
666 La Mir ada ..................
......779
667 Fiv e Points .......................... 780
668 Riv iera .................. ...... ....781
669 Rolling Hill s .................. ....782
670 Silv erad o ............ ................. .783
671 Mo jav e .................. ......
....784
672 Lel and Sta nfo rd ............
...... ..785
673 Par amo unt ............ ...... ... .786
674 Rio Lin da ............ ............ ....787
675 We stm inster ............ ...... .... 788
......
676 Sie rra ..............................
......789
677 Oak Plai ns ............ ...... ..790
678 Gra nad a Hills ............
old ......791
679 Gen . Hen ry H . Arn......
..... .792
680 Mil lbrae ...................
... .793
681 M aya ................................... .794
682 Mt. Wil son ..................
......... .795
683 Am eric an Riv er ............
......796
68i Gol den Val ley ...... .......... 797
685 Til a Pas s .................. .......798
686 Ash land ........................
....799
687 Cla irem oat Ma a ............

691 The Gab llan ····· ··-··
·-·--· ······804

Cha rter
hsuc d

G. L

Per C•pi u

Rai1cd

136
66

56
130
94
I Ii
110
82
73
117
83
86
68
78
58
56
80
99
70
29

1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1962
1962
1962
1962
1963
1963
196 3
1964
1964
1964
1964
1965
1965

90
105
65
100
120
100
100
100
75
135
100
125
125
75
75
165
150

75

100
90

--

10
10
-

10

--

25

JO

-

I
10

20
24
16
15
18
18
15
18
18
15
16

15

20
18
18
24
20
12
16
15

4
7
5

5
13
IQ

14
14
5
17
8

8
9
12
9
2
25
49
15
4

6
3
3
10
10
14
14
8
19
12
14
9
11
11
2
24
i2
10
2

i
8

11

9

15
13
10
23
10
16
8
6
6
4
19
38

5

-

441.60

579.90
i99 .40
566.40
529 .00
552.20
322.30
573.70
405 .30
485 .60
374.80
373.80
358 .80
272.60
501.00
769.90
447.00
264.90

250 .00
270 .00
200.00
325 .00
530.00
375 .00
540.00
540 .00
225 .00
705 .00
305 .00
355 .00
315 .00
555 .00
95.0 0
390 .00
925 .00
1815.00
110 0.00
240.00

90

114
52
72

tota ls see Rep ort of Gra nd

Sec reta ry.

UD
EX TI NC T LODGES, IN CL

IN G CO NS OL ID AT IO NS

of the
fou nd sta rtin g on pag e 495
A com ple te list ing will be
s hav e occurred since the n.
1964 Proceedings. No cha nge

""'
0

(.;.)

GRA ND LODGE OF CAL IFOR

404

PRO CEE DIN GS OP THE

ifornia, F. & A. M.
Elected Officers Gra nd Lodge of Cal
il 18. A. L. 5850
Sinc e 111 Org aniz atio n. Apr

1856

1876

1889

1883

1850
8elc her....... . G. M.
G . M.
G. M. William H . How ard ...... M. William C. born e.._ .D. G. M.
G.
Clai
D.
B.
....
ond
Gil.
Raym
Jona than D. Stev enso n
John A.
. G. W.
California No. I
Lemu e l Lyon.._..........S. G . W . Louis Coh n...........-.S
lom Jan. I, 1900
J. G. W .
Pete r W . Rendla ......J . G. W. Wm. A. Davies..........
Died Feb. 14, llM
...... G. T. Jame s Leldl ey.._ .............G. T.
John A. Tutt .............. D. G. M. Addi son Mert in ........
.. G . S. Alu G. Abel l.........._ ...G . S.
Cale b Fenn er........ .... S. G. W. Alai G. Abell ................
W.
G.
.
J
..
........
d1..
Woo
el
Sash
1857
1864
Levi Stowell...................... G . T. Nath aniel G. Curt is ...... G . M.
S.
G.
........
........
n
Giho
.
John H
Wa1hln9ton No. 20
er........ G . M.
Belch
C.
am
Willi
Born Fob. I 1111
Gil. B. Clai born e...... D. G . M.
Dlod July d, 1"7
1851
W.
Char les Marsh ............D. G . M. Wm. A. Devles..........S. G.
John A. Tutt .........- ....... G. M. Aaro n D. ParL ..........S. G. W. lsaee S. Titus.. ............J. G. W,
J
No.
Tohama
T.
John B. Po pe..............J . G. W. Jame s Laid ley.................. G.
lorn Feb. 4~ II II
Died May h , 1900
son Mart in .............. G. T. Alex G. Aball.. ................ G . S
Addi
Benj . D. Hyam ..........D. G . M. Alex G . Abel l ...........- ..G· S.
E. F. F. Ellis.- .......- ..S. G. W.
1865
1858
Benj . S. Olds ..............J. G. W.
l G . Curtis...... G . M. Gilb ert 8. Claib orne ......G . M.
Townsend A. Thomes......G. T. Nath anie
heer d ...... D. G. M.
Levi Stowell ........ ..............G. S. P. W. Shep
~~,':.,Ji:21uln No. It
Wm . MeC ormi eL ....S. G. W.
Died Doc, I, 190t
W.
.
G
.
J
........
ell
1852
Biekn
.
W
Jes.
T.
G.
. A. Davles... ....... D. G. M.
.....
Wm
........
in
Mart
M.
Addi son
Benjamin D. Hyam ....... G.
S.
S. Titus.............. S. G. W .
G.
.......
lsue
........
l...
Abel
Ale• G.
Benicia No. S
H enry H. Hart ley......J . G . W.
lorn March I, 1111
1859
Dlod July 12, 1191
Jame s leidl ey ..................G. T.
Cha s. M. Rad clifL... D. G . M. Nath anie l G. Curt is .... G. M. Alex G. Abell.. ................ G. S.
M.
G.
G.T.
.
D.
......
.......
d
P. W. Shep heer
Addison Mart in.......
J , R. MeConnell ........J. G. W. Ebe neie r Lane ..........S. G . W .
1868
T.
G.
Thos. P. Hawlay........J . G . W .
Add ison Marlin ................
Levi Stowell......................G. S. Addison Martin ..............G. T. G ilber t B. Claib orne ..... G. M.
M.
Ale1 G. Abel l .................. G . S. Hanr y H. Hart ley......D. G.
1853
Pete rson...... S. G . W.
H.
.
Wm
1860
Th omes BecL ............ J . G . W.
Char les M. RadelilL ... G. M.
Nath aniel G . Curt is......G. M.
Tuolumno No. I
Jame s Leidley ..................G . T.
M.
G.
D.
......
d
heer
lilt
S,
Shep
Feb.
lorn
P. W.
Alex G. Aball.................. G . S.
W.
G.
S.
Died Dee. lt , IUt
........
er
Beleh
C.
M. Wm .
W.
G.
.
J
......
r. A. Th om as.... ......... 0. G . W.
ard
Hayw
Alvi nia
1867
J no. R. Cran dall ........S. G.
Addi son Mart in .............. G. T.
Rich ard F. KnotL ......J . G . W. Alu G . Abell... .....- ....... G. S. William A. Davies .......... G . M.
Addison Martin.............. G. T.
Columbia No. 21
1861
lorn Feb. 5, 1127
Levi Stowell ......................G. S.
Jame s L. En91ish ............ G. M.
Died June lO, ""
40
No.
Sacromonto
1854
Henr y H. Hart ley....D. G. M.
Juno~ Jill
Born
Thomas BaeL ............ S. G. W.
Dlod May LY, 1119
Will iam H . Howard..... G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Beleh er........ D. G . M. Leonidas E. Pratt .....J . G. W .
C.
.
Wm
G . T.
l orn Au9. 2', 1110
J ohn W . Harville...... S. G. W . Jame s A. Laldley......_ ...
Dlod Sept. II, 1166
oxon ....J . G. W. Alex G . Abell.. .... - ......... G. 5.
Wile
E.
M.
.
b
G
D.
Cale
.....
is...
Curt
.
G
.
Nath
ley ................ G. T.
Rad or E. Cola ..........S. G. W. Jame s Laid
l.................. G. S.
Abel
W.
G.
G.
.
J
..
Alex
........
d
Woo
1868
Robt . N.
T.
.
6
......
........
in
Mart
Addison
1862
Char les Marsh ............... G . M.
S.
.
_.G
.
........
.
M.
........
Levi Stowall
William C. Belch ar........ G.
Nevad• No, ll
lorn Doc. 6 1125
Corinthian No. 49
1855
Died April ll, 1176
lorn Dec. 12, 1820
I, 19'S
Sept.
Died
. G. Cod rill...... S. G. W .
M.
G.
Theo
......
William H . How ard
M.
.
G
_.O.
...
e
born
Clai
8.
Gil.
M.
G.
.
Leon ides E. Prett ...... D. G . M.
T. A. Thomes ............0
J oh n W . Harville......S. G. W .
..._ ....J . G . W.
Jno. A. Reymond...... S. G. W. J ohn B. Hawson ........J . G. W. Fredk. F. Barss
....... .. 6. T.
Sam . A. Mer ritt........J . G. W. Jame s La idley ................. G. T. Jame s Leidley ........
l. ............... ..G. S.
Abel
G.
Alex
Add i1on Mart in ..............6. T.
S.
Alex G. Aball .......- -.... 19.
Levi Stowell - ..- -... .& . S.

405

NIA

1883

than D. Hines..._..6. M.
John M. Browne............ G. M. Jona lueneventure Ho. 214
San
M.
.
G
D.
......
ln
ig9
W
Chas . L
lorn Jan. I, 1125
Died Doc. JO, 1116
Wm . S. Wells ............ S. G. W.
.
W
G.
J.
....
9ue
Wile y J. Tinn in.___ o. G . M.
Solon W . Cral
Jame s Laidley .................. G. T. Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Ale1 G . Abel l............ - ... G . S. Hira m N . Ruekar......J . G. W.
Moses Hell er .................. G. T.
1877
AIH G. Abell ................ .. G. S.
John M. Browne ......_ .. G. M.
1870
Chas . L Wl9 9ln _ .. O. G. M.
1884
Leonrdas E. Prett............G. M. Wm. W . Traylor......_$, G. W.
Hines ........ G . M.
D.
than
Jona
W.
M.
.
G.
G
J.
..
D.
....
Wm . 11. Cran e........
hue S. Tltus........
n ........ D. G . M.
Tinni
J.
y
Wile
T.
.
G
..
W.
........
G.
Moses Hell er ........
Chu . L Wi9 9in ........S.
... _ S. G. W .
son
Atkin
.
C
Edm.
S.
.
W.
G
..
G.
AIH G. Abel l ................
Bani. H. FrHm an...... J.
...J , G. W.
er...
Rud
N.
m
Hira
T.
G.
..
Jam es Laidl ey........ .___
... G. T.
.......
........
er
Hell
s
S.
.
Mose
G
1878
Alex G . ALe lL_ ..___
Alex G. Abell... ........ .......G. S.
M.
G.
.......
..
ne
Brow
John M.
1871
Wm . W. Traylor. ....... D. G . M.
Leon idas E. Prat t.......... G . M. Wm. H. Cren e .......... S. G. W .
1885
M.
.
G
D.
Chu . L. Wi9 gln........
........J . G. W. Wile y J. Tinnin ..............&. M.
er
Brod
C.
.
Robt
W.
G.
Ben. H. Freaman ......S.
Trinity No. r1
Mos es Hell er - ·-·-· -···G • T.
Geo . C . Perkins.. ......J . G. W. AIH G. Abell... ___....... G. S.
Born Oct. 7, 1129
Died Nov. 24, ltlO
Jame s Laldley............._ .. G. T.
S.
.
G
Alex G. Abell..... ___ _ ..
Edm. C. At~inson...... D. G. M.
1879
Hira m N. Rud ar......S. G. W.
1872
William W . Tray lor. ....... G. M. Henr y H. Knap p......J. G. W.
I
No,
ornla
M.
G.
Callf
.......
Leon idas E. Pratt...
Nath an W Spau ldin9 ....G . T.
Born March 17, ltn
Benj. H . Freeman ....... D. G. M.
Died Jan. II, llll
Alex G. Abe lL .............. G. S.
.
W
.
Geo. C . Perk ins.._ ...$. G
Sam uel C. Denson .... D. G . M.
John M. Browne........J . G. W. Clay W. Taylor ........S. G. W .
1888
Jam es Laidley ..................G. T. John Q. Adam1 ........J. G. W .
S.
Anin son .... G. M.
G.
T.
C.
.......
G.
...
und
........
........
L
Edm
_
.....
Abel
er
.
G
Hell
Alex
Moses
o No. 40
ment
Socra
S.
.
G
.......
........
l...
Alu G. Abel
lorn Nov. 17, 1117
1873
Died Ma" h 20, ltll
hue S. Titus. ............... G. M .
1880
Hira m N. Rueker...... O. G . M.
San Joaquin No. It
W.
Samuel C. Dan1on_ _ ..G. M. Mo,,.is M. Estee....__ $. G.
lorn Oct. I~ 1127
Dlod April u, 1m
Union No. U
R. Conklin_ ....J . G. W,
h
Alva
Born Sept. 21, Ill'
Geo . C. PerUnL....... G . M.
Nath an W Spau ldi ng ....G . T.
Died J uly 26, ltl7
S.
Jno. M. Browne........S. G . W .
..... O. G. M. Alex G. Abel l........_ ....... G.
r__
Taylo
W.
Cloy
.
W
G.
J.
...
Chu . E. Mite helL
G. W .
S.
........
s
Adam
Q.
T.
.
John
G
....
_
Jame 1 Laldley..__
1887
W. Hollenbeek....J . G. W.
Alex G . Abell..._ ............ G. S. 0 . s Hell er .........._ ......G . T.
Mose
Hira m N. Rucker ........- G. M.
1874
la Gran9• No. ft
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Geo rge C . Perkins ........ G . M.
Died Dee. 11, ltOI
1881
Oroville No. 10)
is M. Est .......... D. G. M.
M.
Morr
.6.
_
_
Born A119. 2), lilt
or...
T1yl
W.
Clay
Died Fob. 24, lttJ
2
h R. Conklin .._ $. G. W
No.
Alve
S"tar
ern
WHt
John M. Browne ....... D. G . M.
lorn Sept. 10 1944
Wm. Joi.n ston ..........J . G. W.
Died May I, 1"7
Wm. 8. Pa rker..... -.S. G. W .
Nath an W Spau ldin9 ....G . T.
John Q . Adam L ....... 0. G. M. Alex G. Abel l.................. G . S.
Wile y J. Tinnln ... _ ....J . G . W.
Jame s Laldley ___ __ ,G. T. Jona than D. Hine s_ S. G . W.
....J . G. W.
Al.. G. Abell.. ................ G. S. Thos. J . Bowers.._
1888
Mo1es Hell er ........ ..........G. T.
M.
1875
Alai G . Abel l..................G. S. Morris M. Estee .........__ G.
Callfornl• No. I
John M. Browne...... - ..G. M.
lorn Nov. ?l, llM
1882
Naval No. 17
Dlod Oct. 7, ltoJ
lorn May 10, lnl
W . Teylor.............. G. M.
Clay
llM
7,
Dec.
Died
h R. Conklln ..._ D. G. M.
Alva
M.
G.
D.
....
s
Hine
D.
than
John.+on...... S. G. W.
Chas. L Wi9 9ln...... D. G. M. Jona
iem
Will
.
W
G.
$.
......
son
C. Atkin
Boru cL .....J . G . W.
Wile y J , Tlnnln .......... S. G. W. Edm .
D.
:.
Marc
W.
G.
J
....
Hinds...Spau ldin9 ....6. T.
W
Jaco b H. Neff..........J. G . W . Geo r9e
en
Nath
T.
6.
..
es Hell er ........ ........
l. _.....- 6 . S.
Abel
G.
Jam ei L.id ley...........- .....G . T. Mos
Alf't
S.
.
6
L ..............
Al.. G . Abell.._ ...._ ...... 6. S. Alex G. Abel

Leonlde1 E. Pret t..... _ .. G. M.
Mountain Shade No. II
lorn A"'ll. 2', Ill)
Died Oct. 21, IU4
lsuc S. Titus........ ___O. G . M.
John S. Wer d .....- .... S. G . W.
Rich ard Dele..............J . G . W.
Jame 1 Laldley._ ..........-.G. T.
Alu G. Abell.................. G. S.,

o:

406

P RO CEEDINGS OF THE

407

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RN IA

1889

1895

1901

1907

1913

1919

Morris M. Er.t.....- .......G. M.
William Johnston ....0. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritmen...... S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Alex G. Abell ...--........... G. S.

Ed ward M. Preston ........ G. M.
Nevada No. ll
lorn May 4, IMI
DIod Apr II 24, 1903
Wm. T. Luces ............ D. G. M.
Th omas Flint.............. S. G. W.
F. M. Angellotti........J . G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
Ge org• Johnson ............ G. S.

William S. Walls ............ G. M.
Martinea No. 41
Born June 24, 1161
Died Jan. 23, 191t
0. S. Hendenon...... D. G. M.
Ches. W. Nutting ....S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter .- ... J . G. W.
Edward Coleman............ G . T.
George Johnson ............G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............ G . L

Georg• M. Perine ........ G. M.
Peclflc No. IM
lorn 1151
Died Oct. 6, ltJJ
Reuben H. Lloyd ......D. G. M.
Oscar Lawlar............S. G. W.
W. Frank Piarca........ J . G. W.
Edward Cole man ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..... - ..... G. L

John D. Murp hay.......... G . M.
Alla No. ]]J
lorn Julr 7, 196)
Died Sept. II, 1941
Ben j. F. Bladsoe........ D. G. M.
Alb. G . Burnatt........S. G . W.
F. V. Keesling ............J . G . W.
W m. Parke r Fil mer.......... G . T.
J ohn W hieher..................G. S.
Thomas J . Ba ker .............. G. L.

Charles Albert Adams..G . M.
&celalor No. "'
Born Nov. 25, 18'7
Died May I, 1962
Geo. F. Roddan ........ D. G . M.
Sam. E. Burke............S. G. W .
Wm. A. Sherman ......J . G. W.
W m. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn W hicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Bakar.............. G . L

1890
Alveh R. Conklln............ G. M.
Inyo No. 2ll
lorn IUS
Died Oct.1, 18'7
William Johnston ...... D. G . M.
Chu. R. Gritman ....S. G . W.
Henry S. Orme ........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

1896
W illiam T. luces............G. M.
Guadalupe No. 237
lorn Merch II, 1850
Died Morch 21, ltll
Thomas Flint... ........... D. G. M .
F. M. Angellotti... ..... S. G . W.
Ches. L. Petton ........ J . G . W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G S.

1891

1897

Willia m J ohnston...... ....G . M.
Franklln No. 143
lorn Jun• 2, 1125
Died Nov. 14, ltol
Chu R. Gritmen ...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ........S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevans... ....... J. G. W .
Nathan W Spaulding ....G . T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.

Thomas Flint .................. G. M.
Texas No. 46
Born May It, 1151
Died Nov. II, lt36
F. M. Angellotti.. ...... D. G . M.
Chas L. Patton.......... S. G. W.
Jas. A. Foshay .......... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G . T.
Georg• Johnson ............6. t

1892

1898

Charles R. Gritman .... . G . M.
Yount No. 12
l0<n Dae. 10, 1131
Died May 14, 18'4
Henry S. Orme ........ D. G. M .
Ju. B. Stevens.......... S. G. W .
Edw. M. Presto11 .... .. J. G. W .
Nathan W Spaulding .... 6. T.
Georg• Johnson ...- ....... G. S.

Frank M. Anqellottl...... G. M.
Muln No. ltl
lorn Sept. 4, 1961
Died May 23, 1912
Chas. l. Patton ....-.D. G. M.
Jes. A. Foshey .......... S. G . W.
Wm. S. Wells... .........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George J ohnson ............ G. S.

1893
Henry S. Orme............. G. M.
So. Callfornl1 No. 279
lorn March 2S, 1837
Died Nov. 2', ltl2
Jas. 8. Stevens.. ........ D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston........ S. G. W.
Wm. T. Luces ............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............G. T.
George J ohnson ............ G. S.

1894
James 8. Stevens ........ .G. M .
Yount No. 12
lorn Mu ch 27, 1'41
Died Dae. 6, 191t
Edw. M. Praston ........ D. G. M.
Tliomas Flint..............J. G. W.
Wm. T. lucu............ S. G . W.
Edward C oleman ............ G . T.
Georg• Johnson - -··- ···G . S.

1899
Charles L. Patton ..........G . M.
Callfornla No. I
Born 18&S

Died Aprll II, ltn
Jas. A. Foshay.......... D. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells............$. G . W.
0 . S. Handenon......J. G . W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
Georg• J ohnson ............ G. S.

1900
James A. Foshay........ ...G. M.
So. Callfornla No. m
lorn Nov. 21, IB5'
Died Jan. 14, ltl4
Wm. S. Wells......... ... D. G. M.
0 . S. Henderson ...... S. G . W.
Ches. W. Nutting ....J . G . W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George J ohnson ............ G . S.
Wm. H. Edwuds ............ G. L

1902
Orrin S. H endanon ...... G . M.
Mornln9 Ster No. 61
lorn June 2, IW
Died June 25, I"40
Ches. W . Nutting.... D. G . M.
Geo. W. Hunter ...... S. G. W .
Motley H. Flint...••...J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ···-······G• S.
Wm. H. Edwards............ G. L

1903

Charles W. Nutting...... G . M.
Evanln9 Star No. 116
Born Oct. J 1152
Died Sept. 20. 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... D. G. M.
Motely H . Rint........ S. G . W.
Edw. H. Hart ............J . G . W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.
Wm. H . Edwards ............ G. L

1904

George W. Hunter ..... G. M .
Humboldt No. 7t
lorn 1854
Died Oct. 14, lt21
Motley H . Rint........ D. G . M.
Edw. H. Hart............S. G. W.
G eo. M. Perine ........ J . G . W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............G. L

1905
Motley H. Flint..............G . M.
E.st Gata No. 2tO
lorn Feb. It, 1961
Died July 14, ltlO
Ed ward H. Hart ........ D. G. M.
G eo. M. Perine... ......S. G . W .
Reube n H. lloyd ......J . G . W .
Edward Coleman ............ G . T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H . Edwards............ G . L

1908
Edward H . Hart ............G . M.
Liva Oak No. 61
l orn 1851
Dl1d Sept. 24, 1917
Geo. M. Parlne........ D. G. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... S. G . W.
Oscar Lawler ........._ J. (;. W.
Ed ward Colem•n .....- ... G. T.
G eorge J ohnson ..._ ... 6. S.
Wm. H . Edwerds_ __ .& . L

1908
Oscar Lawler
..
G. M.
Eut $ala No. 2tO
lorn "prll 2, 1171
W. Frank Pia ree ........ D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller ........ S. G. W.
A. J . Mon roa ............J . G. W.
Edward Coleman ............G . T.
John Whicher..................G . S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L.

1909
W. Frank Plarca ............ G. M.
Oakland No. IH
l orn Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. J, ltlO
Dana R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe............ S. G . W.
W m. P. Filmer .......... J. G. W.
Edward Colamen ............ G. T.
J o hn Whicher..................G . S.
Thomes J . Bak.er.............. G. L.

1910
Dana R. Wallar..............G. M.
So. Celffornla No. 271
lorn March 24, 1174
Died Jan.'· lt47
A. J . Monroa............ D. G . M.
W m. P. FilmeL ....... S. G. W .
J . D. Murphey ..........J. G . W.
Edward C ola man ............G. T.
J ohn W hicher...... - ......... G . S.
Thomas J . Beker. ............. G . L.

1911
Alon10 J. Monroa.......... G. M.
Humboldt No. 7t
l orn Oct. "· 1851
Died June 14, lt22
Wm. P. Filmer.......... D. G . M.
J. D. Murphey.......... S. G. W.
Banj. F. Bladsoe........ J. G . W.
Edward Colemen ............ G, T.
John W hiehar......... .........G . S.
Thomas J. Baker .............. G. L

1912

Wm. P. Filmar................ G. M.
Kine; Solomon No. 260
lorn March 2, 114'
Died NoY. ll, IM.1
Jno. D. Murphay...... D. G. M.
Banj. F. Bladsoe........ S. G . W.
Alb. G. Burnett ........J . G. W.
Edward Colaman............G. T.
Joh" Whlchar_ ___ _... ..G. S.
Tlio"'H J ...ktll'...- - 6. I,..

1914

1920

Be nj. F. Bledsoe ............ G . M.
San larnudlno No. 141
lorn Feb. I, la74
Died Oct. 10, ltll
A lb . G. Burnett........ D. G. M.
F. V. Keesling ............S. G. W .
W . Rh. Hervey..........J . G. W.
W m. Parker Fil mer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G . S.
Thomas J. Baker .............. G. l.

G eorge F. Rodden ........ G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dac.24, 18'7
Died March I , IU4
Sam. E. Burka......... ..... D. G . M.
Wm. A. Sherma n...... S. G . W.
Art hur S. Crites........J . G . W.
W m. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn W hicher..................G . S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G . L.

1915

1921

Albert G . Burnett .......... G. W.
Santa Rosa No. S7
Born Aprll f . 1156
Died Aue;. 15, lt13
F. V. Keesling ............D. G . M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey ...... S. G. W .
Bradfo rd Webster.... J. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G . T.
J ohn W hicher .................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G . L.

Samuel E. Burka ............ G . M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. l l. 1170
Died Feb. 14, 1961
W m. A.. Sherma n... ... D. G. M.
Arthur S. C rites.........S. G. W .
David J . R..se ..........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ..........G . T.
Joh n Whieher.................. G . S.
Thomos J . Ba ker ..............G . L.

1916
Fra ncis V. Keesling........ G. M.
California No. I
l orn Feb. 17, ran
Died Sept. 25, 1963
Wm. Rh. Hervey..... D. G . M.
Bradford W ebster....S. G . W.
Charles A. Adams ....J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
J ohn Whieh er.................. G . S.
Thomes J. Baker .............. G . l.

1917
W m. Rhodes Hervey.... G. M.
Pantalpha No. 201
Born March 26, 1170
Died Feb. I. l'ISJ
Bradford Webster .... D. G . M.
Charles A. Adams.... S. G . W .
G eo. F. Rodden..... ...J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
J ohn Whieher.................. G . S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G . L.

1918
Bradford W ebster ........G . M.
live Oak No. 61
l orn Dae. 14, 186t
Died J une 4, lt41
Charles A. Adams.... D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ........S. G . W.
Sa m. E. Burke ............J. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer......... . G. T.
J ohn W hicher.................. G . S.
Tliomas J. Baker .............. G . L

1922
W illia m A. Sherman ...... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1810
Died Feb. 19, lt40
Arthur S. C rites ........ D. G . M.
Devid J. Ree se.......... S. G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton........J . G. W.
W m. Parker Filmer.......... G . T.
J ohn Whicher ..............-.G . S.
Thomes J. Baker........ ...... G. L

1923
Arthu r S. C rites ............ G. M.
Bakersfield No. 224
Born Fob. 4, 1179
Died Apr. 28. 1957
Devid J . Reese.......... D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton........ S. G. W.
G eo. L. J ones............J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G . T.
John W hicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker ...............G . L.

1924
David J. Reesa.............. G. M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
l orn Aue;. 22. 1171
Died Noy, t , 1934
Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. G. M.
G eo . L. J ones ............ S. G. W .
Will H. Fischer..........J. 6 . W.
W m. Parker Filmer..... ..... 6. T.
Jo h~ Whicher.......- ........G . S.
ThomH J . Baker..._ _ G. L

408
1925

1931

1937

Albert E. loynton ..__ _____G, M.
Orevllle No.IC]
lorn Oct. 9, 1175
Diod Fob. 22, 1945
Geo. L Jonu ........... D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer .......... S. G. W.
E'-·.is. A. Huteff.......... J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer ..........G. T.
John Wh icher......... ......... G. S.
ThomH J. Baker .......... - .. G. L.

Ro bt. B. Gaylord ......... G. M.
Oakland No. 181
Born Nov. 24, 1176
Diod Auq. 4, 1'53
Frank W. Mixter..... D. G. M.
James B. Gist............ S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ... .... ... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker...... ........ G. L.

James T. Fraser.............. G. M.
Humboldt No. ' '
Born Au9. 21, 11161
Dlod June 26, 1'53
Leon 0 . Whihelf..._ .. D. G. M.
William H. Waste .... S. G. W.
William B. Ogden ... .J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ...... .......... G. L

1926
George L. Jonos ............ G. M.
Madhon No. 21
Born May II, 187]
Dlod June 22, 1954
Will H . Flschor ........ D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff..........S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ... .J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
Johr> Whicher... .............. .G. S.
Thomas J. Baker .. .......... G. L.

1932

1938

Frank W. Mixter.... ...... G. M.
Euler No. 424
Born Doc. 30, 187]
Diod May 22, 1947
James B. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton .......... S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker .............. G. L.

Leon 0. Whitsell ........ G. M.
Oran9e Grove No. 2'13
Born July 10, 1876
W illiam H. Waste.... D. G. M.
W illiam B. Ogden ... S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whieher.................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood .......... ...... G. L.

1927

1933

Will H. Fischer............. G. M.
Wll1hlro No. 44S
lorn So pt. 11 , 1175
Dlod Oct. 4, I'53
Gus. A. HutalL ...... D. G. M.
C. M. W ollenberg .... S. G. W.
J. S. Rou.... . ........... J. G . W.
Wm. Porker Filmer ... ...... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomes J . Bak e r ... ...... G. L.

1928
Gustav A. Huta/L ..... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 2'7
Born Oct. 5 187'
Dlod Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .. D. G. M.
J. S. Ross .................. S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ... .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ......... G. T.
John Whicher................. .G. S.
Thomas J. Bek er ............G. L.

1929
C, M. Wollonber9 ..... G. M.
Starr KlnQ No. 344
Born March IJ. 1171
Died Oct. 22, 1962
John S. Rou ..............D. G. M.
Robt. B. Geylord .. ... .S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... . G. T.
John Whichor ... , .............. G. S.
Thomes J. Baker. ............ G. L.

James B. Gist................G. M.
Penlalpha No. 202
Born AuQ . I, 111'8
Died April 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting ........... .D. G. M.
Earl Warren .............. S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller........J. G . W.
w,.,.,. !'erker Filme r .......... G. T.
John Whicher.. ................ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker......... ..... G. L

1934
Randolph V. Wh iting .... G. M.
Kln11 Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Feb. 4, 1'52
Earl Warren .............. D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller........ S. G. W.
Jame s T. Fraser........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Fil.,,er .......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L.

1944
Gilbert C. DeForest...... G. M.
Readln9 No. 2S4
Sorn Sept. 18, 1"9
Died Jen. 25, 1952
Lawrence C. Kelley ..D. G . M.
Arth ur W . Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore ..........J. G . W.
Franc is V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Chester H. W arlow........ G. L.

1950
Arthur Paulsen _______G. M.
Trinity No. Tl
Born May 4, 18'0
Louis C. Drapeau _____ D. G . M.
Arthur M. W'erran....S. G. W .
Frank Harwell, Jr.... .J. G. W.
Fren cis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilsort..............G. S.
We lter H. E. von Konsky G.L.

1951

1945

Louis C. Drapeau ......... E. M.
Polnsottle No. 6JJ
Born Au9. 30, 1885
Arthur M. W'erren .. D. G. M
Frank Ha rwell, Jr ..... S. G . W
Henry C. Clausen....J. G. W .
Fr ancis V. Keesling ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ................G .S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G . L.

1948

Arthur M. Warren .. ...... G. M.
Mt. Davld1on No. 48 1
Born December 27, 1901
Died May 21 , 1964
Frank Harwell , Jr..... D. G. M.
Hen ry C. C la use n.... S. G. W.
Edgar V. Stewart, J r. J. G. W .
Franei1 V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............... G.S.
El bert W. Davis..............G. L.

1940
Lloyd E. Wilson ............ .G. M.
ln9lesldo No. 630
Born Au9. 16, 1895
Died Nov. 2, 1961
Frank M. Smith .......... D. G. M.
Leslie E. W ood ........ S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison .. J. G. W.
Wm. Pa rke r Filmer ..........G. T.
John Whieher.................. G. S.
Welter Leonerd .............. G. L.

1941

1936

1955
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr..... G.M.
Loyalty No. 52'1
Born Oct. l, 1901
L Harold Anderson .. D.G.M .
Leo E. Anderson ........ S.G.W .
Phil N. Myers .........._._.J .G.W .
Edward H. Siems... ......... G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..........- .... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis................G.L.

Lawrence C . Kelley ...... G. M.
Pentelphe No. 201
Born J uly 23, 1889
Died Oct. 24, I'145
Arthur W. Brouillet... . G. M.
Park No. 449
Born Jan. 21, 1114
Dlod Sopt. 18, 1953
John R. Moore ........ S. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Chester H. W arlow........G. L.

Frank M . Smith ..............G. M.
East Gate No. 2'0
Born April I, 11194
Died April 7, USI
Leslie E. Wood .. ....... .D. G. M.
Claude H. Morrison .. S. G . W.
G . C . DeForest........J. G. W.
Wm. Pa rker Filmer ..........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G. L.

Rollie W. Miller........ ... G. M.
Sun1ol No, 352
Born Oct. 17, 188]
Died July 18, 1960
James T. Fraser ........ D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsell ...... S. G. W.
William H. Waste ....J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ........ ..G. T.
John Whicher. ................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood. ___ ______ G. L

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ........... G. M.
Liberal Arts No. 6n
Born Fob. 27, 1905
Arthur Paulsen .......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeau...... S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W.
Fra ncis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ..............G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L.

1939

1935

1930

1943
Claude H . Morrison...... G. M.
Sen Dio90 No. 35
Born July I0, 1887
Died Nov. 2 , 1953
G ilb ert C. DeForest ..D. G . M.
Lawrence C. Kelley.. S. G. W.
Arthu r W. Brouillet..J . G. W.
Fra ncis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G. S.
Chester H. Werlow........G. L.

William B. Ogden....... G. M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born Auq. 26, 11176
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson ....... D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ....... S. G. W.
Lesli e E. Wood ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parke r Filmer.. ...... . G. T.
John Whicher ..................G. S.
Walter Leonerd ....... ....... G. L.

Earl Warren .. .................. G. M.
Sequoia No. 149
Born March "· 18'1
Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser........ 5. G. W.
Leon 0. Whitsell ......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher .................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L

John Stewart Ross ...... G. M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21, 1879
Dlod Au<j. 31, 1952
Robt. B. Gaylord .... D. G. M.
Frenk W. Mixte r ..... S. G. W.
James 8. Gist.. .......... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Film er ...... G. T.
John Whicher ........ ... G. S.
Thom•• J. Baker... - ...... .G. L

409

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1942
Leslie E. Wood ..............G . M.
Provident No. 609
Born Aprll 2, 111'17
Claude H. Morrison ..D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............. .G. S.
Che.ter H. W'arlow ...... G . l.
Lawrence C. Kelley..J . G. W.

John R. Moore.............. G . M.
Morldlen No. U7
Born Sopt. 1"'1
Died Ma rch 28, 1965
Chester H. Warlow.. Q. G. M.
Edward H. Siems ......S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer........J. G. W.
Fra ncis V. Keesling ....... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G . S.
Arthur M. Werren .......... G. L

1947
Chester H. W arlow ......G. M.
Fre1no No. 247
Born June lO. 1B8'
Died December 10, 1'63
Edward H. Siems ...... D. G . M.
Ellsworth Meyer ........ S. G. W.
Arthur Pa vlsen ........ J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ..... G. T,
Lloyd E. Wilson ............. .G. S.
Arthur M. Wuren ...... . G. L

1952

1953
Frank Harwell, Jr...... ...G. M .
Beverly Hills No. 521
Born October 4, 1898
Henry C. Clausen.... D. G . M.
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr... S.G. W .
L. Harold Ande"on ..J.G.W.
Franci1 V. Keesling..._, .._G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ............ G . S.
Elbert W. Davis.. ............G. L.

1956
L Harold Andenon ........G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1899
Leo E. A nderson........ 0 .G.M.
Phil N. Myers...............S.G.W.
Joe L. Shell..................J .G .W.
Edward H. Siems_____________G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Elbert W . Davls _______ .G . L

1957
Leo E. Anderson ............ G .M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born Febru• ry 20, 1902
Phil N. Myers............ D.G.M.
Joe L. Shell ... _........... S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer....... J .G .W.
Edward H. Siems... .........G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... ... G. S.
Elbert W. Davis ... - ....- ..... G.L

195(1
Phil N. Myers................. G .M.
McCloud Lod9e No. 430
Born, January 12, 1897
Joe L. Shell .................. D.G.M.
Alfred F. Breslauer...... S.G.W.
Guy B. Mixe................J .G.W .
Edward H. Siems.............. G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G .S.
Elbert W. Davis.. ......._____G .L.

1959
Joe L Shell......................G.M.
Sin Dleqo No, 35
Born February 18, 18'2
Alfred F. Bresleuer...... D.G .M.
Guy B. Mize.......- ..... S.G.W.
Ira W. Cobum ............J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems...... _ ..... G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... ......G .S.
Elbert W . Davis.... ___ ____G.L

1948

1954

1960

Edward H. Siems ......... G. M.
Plymouth No. 560
Born December 7, 1903
Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G . M .
Arthur P11ulse n.......... S. G. W.
Louis C. Drapcau ......J. G. W .
Frencis V. Keesling ..._....G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................ G.S .
Arthur M. Warran.... ...... G. L

Henry C. Clausen ...... ..... G.M.
Ingleside No. 630
Born June 30 , 1905
Ed9ar V. St ewart, J r ... D.G.M. I
L. Herold Ande rson.... S.G.W .
Leo E. Anderson........ .J .G.W.
Edwa rd H. Siems .............. G.T.
Lloy.,j E. Wilson ..............G . S.
Elber+ W . Davis ..............G.l.

Alfred F. Breslaue r. .........G .M.
Starr Kin11 No. 344
Born August 26, 18'18
G uy B. Mixe ................ D.G .M.
Ira W . Co burn ............S.G .W .
Elmer W. H e11ld ..........J.G.W.
Arthur M. W11rren .... ........G .T.
Edwa rd H. Sie ms.............. G .S.
Don11ld G . C11mpbell........ G .L

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

410

UST OF INSPE CTOR S

1961
Guy B. Mixe ..... ·- -··········G. M.
Unity No. 168
Born April 23, 1901

Ira W. Coburn ..........D. G . M.
Elmer W. Heald_.._ ..S. G . W.
Theodore Meriam ....J . G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ......._.G. T.
Edward H. Siems......- .... G. S.
Donald G. Campbell .. ...G . L

1962
Ira W. Coburn ........._ ..... G.M.
Doric No. 216
Born Jan. 26, 1904

Elmer W. Heald.......... D.G.M.
Theodore Meriam ........S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith ............J.G.W .
Arthur M. Warren ........ - ..G .T.
Edward H. Siems ..............G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...._..G .L.

1963
Elmer W. Heald .......... _G .M.
El Cantro No. 384
Born Jan. 7, 1885

Theodore Meriam .......D.G .M.
Myron E. Smith .......... S.G.W.
Laurence E. Dayton ....J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ..._ ....G .T.
Edward H. Siems ............G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ......G.L.

1964
Theodore Meriam ..........G.M.
Chico No. 111
Born April 18, 1910

Myron E. Smith ............ D.G.M.
Laurence E. Dayton ....S.G.W.
John F. Porter.. - .......... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger................ G.T.
Edward H . Siems ... ····- ···G.S.
Donald G. Campbell .......G.L.

1965
Myron E. Smith................ G.M.
University No. 394
Born Dae. 2, 1906

Laurence E. Dayton .... D.G.M.
J ohn F. Porter .............. S.G.W.
Eugene S. Ho pp..........J .G.W.
Paul A. Pflu eger....... ....G .T.
Edward H. Siems..............G.S.
Harold N. Richards ........ G.L.

411

Inspector s

Date of Commiu ion

District

. .424
Clarenc e L. Fraser....................................Decernb er, 1927..............................
................................412
Wm. S . Thomps on............................................March, 1928 ...............
.................346
Niles 0. Millar....................................... _.............July, 1932
tember 15, 1934...... ·-··-··········-·······418
Herbert R. Hargrav e......·-··········· ···-···SepDecemb
er, 1935 .............................. ..416
Samuel Dollar ....................... ........ .............
................. 104
George S. Ward.....................................- ...January 1, 1937...............
....... ..........306
Guido de Ghetald l.. .....................................October , 1938..............................
.. 560
Frederic E. Clark. .................................... January 26, 1944..............
. .426
...............
...............
1945
6,
h
······Marc
···············
····
·-············
..
Lawson
B.
James
..392
...............
...............
1945
27,
arch
·············M
·-············
·-···········
........
Balchin
Arch
..322
Edward C. Lohmey er........................Septemb er 27, 1945............... ...............
..301
...............
...............
1945
9,
er
·····Octob
···············
·-···········
....
Alexand er Duncan
.................428
Fred C. Pritschk e............................. ............... April 7, 1947..............................
544
..
Roy T. K.iele....................................................April 22, 1948...............
112
............
...............
..
1948.
11,
er
Septemb
.....
...............
Tassell
n
Va.
El.mer Glen
........... 108
Reginal d Reynold s .............................. ..Novemb er 5, 1948...... ...............
..580
Louis H. Mahler........................................J anuary 31, 1949............... ...............
.. 586
John A. Owen. .................................................May 16, 1949..............................
.................410
Wilson Ernest Lathrop ..............................October 1, 1949...............
..324
Earl Caldwel l............................................J anuary 16, 1950..............................
...570
Elvin C. Drake .............................................. April 14. 1950................................. 614
Ted R. Siems..................................................... .May 8, 1950........... - ............... ..524
Frank W. Raddatz ................................ Novemb er 24, 1950............... ...............
.. 332
Joseph Myron Ruggier o....................Decemb er 21, 1950..............................
. 376
...............
...............
1951
26,
January
......
...............
...............
Armand
L.
Andre
20
·-··-·······5
...
...............
1951
23,
October
............
...............
...............
Reginal d Bunce
500
..
...............
...............
1952
31,
March
.
...
...............
...............
e
Partridg
Wilfred W.
..502
Lynn A. Blackm un............... .......................March 31, 1952..............................
.. 208
...............
...............
1952
12,
.May
....
...............
...............
...............
Edward Farley
..344
Harry K. Wldup..................................Novemb er 10, 1952..............................
2, 1953................................644
Harry H. Ahnan. ..·----·-···· ·-··--······ ······-···M arch 26,
1953................................ 330
Paul A. Hackler... ..,.. .................._................ .March
217
Ray Earl Burdg ......................................Septernb er 5, 1953............... _...............
8
······--32
·-············
......
1953
10,
ober
········Oct
·····--··-···
···-····-···
FinleY-·
E.
James
.. 350
E. Lloy d Hanson..........................................January 1, 1954............... ...............
................ 622
John H. Ferguso n. .......................................January 1, 1954...............................
.. 402
Claiborn Schonho f!............................ ..........March 12, 1954..............................
..550
...............
1954
15,
er
Decemb
.
...............
...............
...............
Smith
Ray
..427
Alva A. Daniells ._.....................................January 13, 1955..............................
..367
Edward C. Will.........- .....................................July 14, 1955..............................
................. 542
Frank Leroy SutlifL ...................................August 9, 1955..............................
..43l
Carl E. Moore ................................................October 3, 1955....................... - .......318
Ralph M. Hinds.......................................... October 29, 1955...............
. .431
William Waters Shugart..........................January 6, 1956..............................
..388
Harold F. Trafton.......................................... April 24, 1956............... ...............···629
·- ··············A. Bird Cross ....................................................May 20, 1956..........
411,
Daniel Kleiman ..............................................July 16, 1956.......- .......................
366
...............
...............
1956
25,
··July
··············
··············
·--········-·
E. Ross Baylis....
1956........... - ...................625
Floyd O. Mason....·-··-······················ ···············July 30,
607
..
Rewell E. Carlton......................................August 15, 1956..............................
605
·--······-···
·-··-··-····
..
1956
20,
gust
Kenneth Dowell ·····-··········-········-······-···Au ber 11, 1956.. ·-··-··················---206
Wayne A. Dahling.......- .....................Septem
..314
George T. Rowse._...................................January 1, 1957..............................
!33
...........
....
...............
1957
1,
January
.....
...............
los
Patropu
Ulysses George
..548
George W. Perkins....... _..........................January 16, 1957............... ...............
9, 1957......·-·····--···· ···········300
Sidney A. Webste L.......................................May 15,
1957...............- ...............637
Lewis Hugh Field..................._.....................May
639
Winfield Scott McLees .............................. ....May 15, 1957............... ........ - .......

PROCEEDING S OP THE

412

Dale of Commission
Inspectors

District

May
1957.-..............................628
Riley L. Blurton ........................·-·········D~~~~ber 24 : 1957
................................ 504
15
James E. Bacon ...................---·············--· January 1 1958... -······-··········-· ·-- .110
Albert A · Bryceson...........·-······- ··-······-···
•
....334
59-··············-·········· ·
Cha rles L Foster......................................January 1, 1959
· Rothblum................................ January 1• 195 ·······- ··············-·......342
on
H
.....326
Carlt
·
9
··· 109
Samuel G . Clark............. ...........................January 1, 19 ··············--·······.........
1959
23
J
,
···-·····---······-··
Arthur L Hughes.................................... anuary
..361
·
9, 1959························
Alfred J ohnson········· - ······-···········-·········February
.April 6 1959.......................-······
.......340
Dam.el D Rowlands........ ·-··-··········--············· J
___.106
·
4• 1959
Percy W · Lindt........ ·-······-···········-·······---······June • 1959···········-···-·········.. -366
Elmer E · Ross.---··-····· ·············-····- ··-········· une 8 • 1959 ·······-·····--······-.......218
October 8,
···············-····· ...
Frank P · .Lemen. ....... ·-·······················--······
Decemb er 1, 1959-························-····.. 554
Arthur L1nsk ··········:··························--·De
cember l , 1959................................596
Claudis Thomas S_hrrley ...................... December 15, 1959................................530
He1dner
Wm
·····----···
Thur l an
·
············
December 15, l959 ····-············--···-----···--582
William Robus~h ··········--·-·--···············Decemb er 15, 1959........................
........319
Partridge......
........................
b
Ralph P
.....626
1959
·
15
Dec
em
er
,
·····················-····
Charles J. Wentz.................................. January 1, 1960........................ ........224
Alfred A. Penrose ...................................... January 1, 1960................................ 226
T aub ner G · Hamma ·············· ······ ··············
February 26, 19 60································362
Ca:rl. R. Ramsey........................_._._._·_·_·.·_·_·_·_·.-.·_·_ .......April 22,
1960................................578
Wilham B?ttorff ···················· .................... April 22, 1960 ................................ 621
Earl J3:mes Walker ............................................May 3, 1960....................... .........385
Frederick Bolt~ ···-·····--····--····· · ...............August 20, 1960................................390
Lee H. Bu<7hhe1ster.................._..·.·.........September 20, 1960................................ 508
Ray H. Paine_............................
October 4, 1960................................ 606
George D ennis Lober..............................._January 1, 1961................................310
ayne
Harvey
Bantz..............------·······
Rom
356
1, 1961···················· ............
J
Larry C · Basker...........................................January
........348
1961
1
anuary
,
··········-············
H
Hobson..........
·
..........................
Herbert ·
..638
··-··· 552
l961 ······-···---····-······
Lo renza H. Shaw ........................ ................JJanuary 11, 1961
............
anuary
,
······-·--··········
Burton Meyer, J r ...................................."January 10, 1961..
.............................. 510
Frank E. Stevens ...................................... January 18 1961 ····----·········---····-··540
Arnold G. Robertson ····-·-·················-····-J anuar
' 6t:::::........................ ...2l 2
William E. Marshall.............................. Februa/ 27 • 19
........ ....................... 216
15• l961
..........
Horace R. L aF'ortune
---···--········-·
b
Y
·
.............219
.
ruary 15, 196 1·········--········
A. Boyd Collier...........
...........................Fe March
29 1961
···----··········---··· ·-120
Wayne E. Philippi...................................... June i' 1961::::::: ........................ .308
John Keller, Jr ........_. ..................................te-~ber 22' 1961 ................................226
Wendell Howard N1col... ................... Sep
b
•
...... .....430
··········--········
4
John Clifton Carp enter ......................Septem er 28 . 1961
1962 ··········-·······..........30
1
Albei;:t E. Thirkill ...................................._January
J anuary 1: 1962::::............................352
M errill D. Coy ........................ ................. J anuary
2
........... 358
1 196
1'
1962···--................ ......... 51 2
R a lph M · Webb........................................
J
a
nuary
·············-·········
Ronald E. Jones ........................_:::·.:::·.·.::·.::::January 1', 1!)62................................ 538
Mark E. Schr<?ck.....................
J anuary 1, 1962................................556
Alfred J · Navin........................................
.
1952 ·············-········ .......... 558
January 11, 1962
Lloyd V. Sm1th............................. ...........January
....................... .........566
.
H
Gebhardt .......... ........................J
Erwin
•
62
...............568
.
· .
anuary 1, 19 ·················
72
Irvm Shulkin
······················· ··............. .... Januar
1
1962
........................
... 5
J
McKimson
........................ ....
Y •
Thomas · .
··--·
...........588
..January
,
1962
.....................
1
Robert E. Crist.......... .............................. January 1 1962................................ 592
James D. Kelso ........................ ....---·-·····::Janua ry 1'. 1962................................ 618
Wayne C. Bates·-··········· ········:::::::::::::::::..January 13, 1962..............................--~5~ Sam I. Bonn.......... ····· _........
March 14 1962 ..............................
Wl.lliam Lowell Hurd ································M
h 15' 1962..
382
·········-··· ..........
William E. Foster.......................... .............. arc
Aoril 5' 1962·········
........................
..... ...420
Chad Horton ........................ .................. .......... •
'
·

lnspoctors

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

413

Date of Commission

Diatrict

Paul Landis Turner ........................ ................ April 5, 1962................................421
William Henry Price ...................................... June 1, 1962................................616
L awrence C. Lamb.............................. December 18, 1962..................·-··-·······532
Clyde E. Sinclair........................................J anuary 1, 1963..........·-·············---···211
Joseph W. Wright......................................January 1, 1963................................307
Bertram C. von Konsky ........................January 1, 1963....................... .........330
Hazelton F rench ......................................January 1, 1963................................337
Robert M. Montgomery............................January 1, 1963................................338
John Joshua Williams ..............................J anuary 1, 1963................................ 368
Ray L. Peterson ....................... .................January 1, 1963................................522
Hiram Odell Gordon ................................J a nuary 1, 1963................................609
William F . Poynter ............................February 5, 1963................................336
Denzil D. Kitchens ....................... .........February 26, 1963................................228
Charles H. McAllister ........................ ........ March 29, 1963................................384
Wilton J . Smith, Jr.........................................June 4, 1963.. ........................ ......394
L eonard D. Babcock .......................... Sep tember 1, 1963 ................................620
Simon F . Bolger ..................................September 18, 1963................................640
Frank L. Richards ....................... .....September 18, 1963................................590
Lloyd D. Hanselman ..........................September 26, 1963................................528
George F. Harrison....................... ........... October 18, 1963................................526
Donald J . Shoemaker ........................ ...... October 18, 1963....................... .........584
R aymond C. Reeder ....................... ......... October 18, 1963................................046
William D. P adgette ....................... ..... December 27, 1963................................608
William Whitfield Eilers....................... ...January 1, 1964................................ 374
Stephen J . Collins ....................................J anuary 13, 1964................................536
Robert A. Simon ......................................J anuary 13, 1964................................ 562
Theodore A. Daley............................... .February 16, 1964................................222
Ernest M. Newton.................................. February 17, 1964................................642
James J. Hartley....................... .............February 26, 1964................................220
Jacob Andrew Feth ..................................... .March 4, 1964................................ 214
She ldon E. Morris....................... .................March 26, 1964................................204
Alfred L eRoy Hayes ....................... ...........March 26, 1964................................210
Robert H . Burrows......................................March 26, 1964........................ ........ 354
C. Earl Gwin...................................................... May 2, 1964. ...............................432
Shelby F . Passley.: ............................................May 2, 1964................................422
Harry L. Muller................................................May 2, 1964................................320
James Harvey Weller....................................May 15, 1964................................612
Orval F. Carpenter....................... .................June 17, 1964............................... .316
Kenneth B. Conklin........................................J uly 28, 1964....................... .........634
L awrence E. Crow...................................... October 8, 1964................................370
James E. Wellet... ...................................November 1, 1964................................534
Fred F. Elliott........................................ November 1, 1964................................594
Robert W. Doa n ........................ ..............November 5, 1964................................574
Willia m A. Fishback..............................November 5, 1964................................ 576
John Burszan, Jr. .......... .......................... J a nuary 1, 1965....................... ......... 364
William W. Dickson, Jr.................... ....... January 11, 1965................................516
James B. Smith .......................................January 25, 1965....................... ......... 116
Donald T. Wright....................................J anuary 26, 1965................................602
Cha rles K. Schertle ........................ ........F ebruary 4, 1965................................564
Jules Des F orges ................... ........................ .March 1, 1965........................ ........546
Joseph Shelborne Babb ..............................April 20, 1965 ................................ 114
John Duane Williams ....................... ........... April 20, 1965........................ ........603
Roland E. Soracco............................................May 4, 1965........................ ........404
Donald K enneth Baldwin....................... .....June 19, 1965 ................................117
Roy L. Payne ..................................................June 19, 1965......................... ....... 118
William H . Reed ............................................June 28, 1965................................ 372
Earl Clifton Lowe ..........................................July 12, 1965........................ ........610
J ames William Belford ............................ August 27, 1965....................... .........636
Hugh Olen Pope, Jr ............................ ....... August 27, 1965 ........................ ........ 506
John Behrens ....................... ............... September 2, 1965................................ 378

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

4li
In spector!

Date of Commissio n

FOREI GN GRAND LODGES

District

Septemb er 13, 1965................. .............. .635
......
Wa lter H · Wayman····· .................
.................
....Septemb er 20, 1965................. ...............630
Leroy G. ~onnelly.........
Septemb er 20, 1965................................
Jack R. Vickers... ................. ................ October 22, 1965................................518
624
W 1"lliam Clarence
. Roye r ............··············October 22, 1965............................... .632
.chard
K
ay .Miller..................................
ber 13, l965 ........... .................... 601
Rl
.
Verdon E . H1xson ................................Novem
Novembe r 20, 1965................................227
Harold B. Weed................. .................. .

R•to,.ii# -4 ;,, PrM~n.J R•Wions ""'h 1h•
&MNI Wt• of C.Jifcw,,;.
Argentin a:

Carlos Wilson, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentin a
Auat:rla:
Dr. Joseph Strelka, Grand Secty.,
Dorothee rgasse -12, Vienna 1, Austria
Belgium:
Grand Secretary ,
265 Rue Royale, Brussels 3, Belgium.
Bou,.1a1
Humbert o Frias RoJa.s, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 554, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Brull:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre

Joaqulm Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazona s, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandr e Ivanenko , Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte . Minas Geraia, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
A. Napoleao Figueired o, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
Grand Lodge of Parana
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 1363, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
B rasiliano deSouza, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 247, Florianop olis, Santa Catarina , Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Caixa P ostal 76, Fortaleza , Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Guanaba ra
Grand Secretary
Rua Mariz e Barros 945, Rio de J aneiro 8, Guanaba ra, Brazil, S. A
The Grand Lodge of the State of P araiba
Ary Silva Antunes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa. Parahyba , Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignema rtin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Re la tions
Av Brigadeiro Luis Antonio 1195, Apt. 72, Sao P aulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, B razil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Samuel Herbert Jones, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil

415

416

PROCEEDING S OF THE

The Grand Symbolic Lodge of the State of Mato Grosso
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 254, Campo Grande, Mato Grosso, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
Canada:
Alberta.Edward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 -12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British ColumbiaJ. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver 2, B. C.
Canada-(Pro vince of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Drawer 217, Hamilton 2, Ontario.
ManitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.
New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0 . Box 430, Saint John, New Brunswick.
Nova ScoUaHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Ed ward :UlandFloyd Drake, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlottetow n, P. E. I.
QuebecJ . Mel. Marshall, Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal 25, Quebec.
Saskatchew anT. M. Spencer, Grand Secty.,
1930 Lome St., Regina, Saskatchewa n.
Chllet
Oscar Pereira H., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
Grand Secty., Lott H. T. Wei
P.O. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China
Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Ignacio Ramirez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Carlos Rincon C., Grand Chancellor-F oreign Relations,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-75, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
National Grand Lodge of Colombia
Ricardo Steffens, Grand Sectx.,
Calle 66 No. 62-45, Barranqmlla , Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena
Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal No. 16, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
•cuba:
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeAlfred Nyvang. Grand Secty.,
Blegdarnsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dominican Republic:
Salvador G. Arnemann, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 865, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Ecuador a
Ricardo Stay R., Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
El SalYador (Cuacatlanh
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
8a Avenida Sur No. 126, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England:
James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.
Freemasons Hall, London, England
F1Dland:
Martti V. MustakaI!io, Grand Secty.,
P. Esplanaadi.k atu 35E, Helsinki. Finland
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
S. J. L. Humbert, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard·Bi neau., Neuilly-sur-S eine, Paris, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodges
P. 0. Box 4747, 6000 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
GrHCe:
N. Economopou los, Grand Secty.,
39, Ypsilantou St., Athens 140, Greece.
Guatemala1
Lauro A. Rivera, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 34, Guatemala City, C. A.
Honduru:
Ramon Hernandez Rivas, Grand Secty. and Chancellor
Apartado 336, Tegucigalpa, D. C., Honduras. C. A. '
Iceland:
Olafur Gislason, Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) Reykjavik, Iceland.
India:
P. N. Sundaram, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 681. New Delhi I. India.

417

GRA ND LODGE OP CAL IFO

418

RNI A

i19

PRO CEEDI NGS OP THE

Irel and :
J . 0 . Har te, Gra nd Sec ty., lin, Irel and
Fre ema son s Hal l, Dub
Isra el:
of Isra el,
Gra nd Lod ge of the Sta tend
ty.,
Joseph Bar -Ne r, Gra Seclsra
eL
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel -Av iv,
Ital yt
The Gra nd Orl ente of Ital y,
Um ber to Gen ova , Gra nd Sec ty.,
Via Giu stin iani , 5, Rom e.
Jap an
ty.,
Car l T. Nak amu ra, Gra nd Sec
ato- Ku, Tok yo, Jap an.
No. 13-1, Shi ba, Sak ae-C ho, Min
Lux emb our g:
ty.,
Leo n Ham us, Gra nd Sec
g-v ille , Lux emb our g.
Cas e Pos tale No. 260, Lux emb our
Mex ico:
ico
Yor k Gra nd Lod ge of ,Mex
ty.,
Reg inal d E. Dob son Gra nd ,Sec
ico 1, D. F.
Apa rtad o Pos tal No. 1986 Mex
Cal ifor nia
Gra nd Lod ge of Baj a solo
T., Gra nd Sec ty.,
Ada lber to J. Aba
ana , Baj a Cal ifor nia.
Tiju
155,
tal
Pos
o
Apa rtad
Gra nd Lod ge "Co smo s"nd Sec ty.,
Jos e A. Esp ejo, Gra
h., Mexico.
Apa rtad o 171, Chi hua hua , Chi
n
Gra nd Lod ge of Nue vo Leo
Sec ty.,
Ser gio Men a Tre vino , Gra nd
vo Leo n, Mex ico.
Nue
rey,
nter
Mo
309,
o
rtad
Apa
Gra nd Lod ge of the Pac iflcdug o, Gra nd Sec ty.,
Inoc enc io Hig uer a Ver
Mexico.
Apa rtad o 20, Gua yma s, Son ora,
Gra nd Lod ge of Tam auli pas
Sec ty.,
Rau l Hin ojos a Flo res, Gra nd
s, Tam pico , Tam ps., Mex ico.
F. A. de Olm os No. 101 Nte . Alto
na
Gra nd Lod ie Uni da Me xica
z, Gra nd Sec ty.,
Mar cial Fer nan dez Vaz que
.
Apa rtad o 56, Ver acru z, Ver., Mex
ico"
Mex
Gra nd Lod ge "Va lle de tine z, Gra nd Sec ty.,
Osc ar Mu zqu iz Mar
F.
Apa rtad o Pos tal 10, Mex ico l, D.
herl and s),
N•t herl and as
nde n (the Gra nd Eas t of the Net
Gro otoo sten der Ned erla
ty.,
Sec
nd
Dr. P. J. van Loo , Gra
ue.
22 Flu wel en Bur gwa l, The Hag
N.-w Sou th Wa l":
Sou th Wales,
Uni ted Gra nd Lod ge of New
R.H . Bur ley, Gra nd Sec ty.,
.W.
279 Cas tler eag h St., Syd ney , N.S
New Z•a land :
ty.,
F. G. Nor ther n, Gra nd Sec
2, New Zea land .
P . 0. Box 6439 , We llin gton C.
Nic arag ua:
Sec ty.,
Car los H. Mu niz, Gra ndagu
a, Rep ubli c of Nic arag ua.
Apa rtad o 102, Man

Nor way :
ty.,
Odd Lie -Da vids en, Gra nd Sec
dga te 19, Oslo, Nor way .
Vol
re
Ned
ple,
Tem
Masonic
Pan ama s
Jua n E. Urr iola, Gra nd Sec ty., ubli c of Pan ama .
Apa rtad o 84, Pan ama , Rep
Per ut
Jorg e A. But ler, Gra nd Sec ty.,
Apa rtad o 587, Lim a, Per u.
Phi lipp inea :
Sec ty.,
Est eba n Mu narr iz, Gra ndMan
ila, P. I.
1440 San Mar celi no,
Pue rto Ric:o1
nd Sec ty.,
Jua n L. Mat os-C intr on, Grae,
Ric o.
P. 0. Box 8385, San turc Pue rto
OuH mla nd1
V. I. Car ter, Gra nd Sec ty., ban e, Aus tral ia.
Box 875, K. G. P. 0., Bris
Sco tla.n dt
nd Sec ty.,
Ale xan der F. Buc han , Grargh
, 2, Sco tlan d.
98 Geo rge St., Edi nbu
Sou ther n Afr ica:
Gra nd Sec reta ry,
Afr ica.
P. 0 . Box 3431, Cap e Tow n, So.
Sou th Aua tral ia1
F. J. Elle n, Gra nd Sec ty., ., Ade laid e, So. Aus tral ia.
Box 19, Run dle St. P. 0
Swe den t
Sve n Sve din, Gra nd Sec ty.,
tan 6, Sto ckh olm , Swe den
Frim ura reo rde n, Bla sieh ohn sga
.
Swi izer land t
Gra nd Lod ge Alp ine,
nd Sec ty.,
Humber~ Vet tova glia, Gra
sa nne, Swi tzer land .
11 Che min Cha mp- Ran d, Lau
Ta11nanla1
ty.•
H. A. Wil kins on. Gra nd Secart,
Tas man ia.
44 Har ring ton St., Hob
Tur k•y :
Naf iz Eke men, Gra nd Sec ty.,oglu, Ista nbu l, Tur key .
25 Nur uziy a Sok ak, Bey
Ven ezu elai
(Re p. of Ven ezu ela) .
Sec ty.,
Fra ncis co Esc oba r Roj as, Gra nd s, Ven ezu ela.
Apa rtad o de Cor reos 927, Car aca
Vic tori a:
Uni ted Gra nd Lod ge,
C. W. Dav is, Gra nd Sec ty., Aus tral ia.
25 Col lins St., Mel bou rne,
Wf ftem Aua tral ia:
N. J. Mu nro , Gra nd Sec ty., We ster n Aus tral ia.
G.P .O. Box D-177, Per th,
me.
Cal ifor nia prio r to the Cas tro regi
•Re cog nize d by Gra nd Lod ge of

420

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES
A
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Anireles.
American River (795), Folsom

Amity-Seal Rock (370),
San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625~ , Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
.
Argonaut (461), San Fran~isco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Arroy_o (274), Arroy~ Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Gardena.
Ash.land (798), San Lorenzo.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
·B alder (393) , San Francisco:
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwm Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills.
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (l}, San Francisco.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Callayomi (282). Middletc;iwn.
Camellia (805), Temple City.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.

Berkeley (363). Berkeley.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

cCastro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Cente r (465), Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge,
Fresno
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (410) Berkeley
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111). Chico.
Chino Valley (427). Chino.
Chowchilla (485) , Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro} (656), Brea.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

421

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Clairemont Mesa (799), San Diego.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F . Smith (482), Los Angeles.
Claude H . Morrison (747),
Chula Vista.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinea (387), Coalinga.
Coastside (762), Paci.1lca.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks.

Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (14.0), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
El Rancho (759), Rico Rivera
Eagle Rock (422) , Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Orinda.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. Euclid (5 19) , Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556) , Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San .F rancisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120){ San Francisco.
Fillmore (379J, Fillmore.
Five Points (779) , Long Beach.
Florence (64.9), Walnut P ark.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oak.land.
l'orheatown, (50), Forbeatown.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Berkeley.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Frank S. Land (U.D.), Los Angeles
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
G

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

·

Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372) Gardena.
Garvan:ia (492), Los Angeles.
Gateway (U.D.), Seaside.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassel! Park (605), Los Angele1.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angele.s.
Golden Valley (796). San Bernardino
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141) 1 Knights Landing.
Granada (608J,
Alhambra
Granada Hills (790). San Fernando.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Great Lights (818), Sunnyvale.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596). South Gate.

H

Hamilton (751), Novato.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hartley (199) Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Home (721) No. Hollywood.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37). Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Manhattan Beach.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach.
Highland (748), Highland.

I
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
llUnoistown (51), Colfax.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ione (80). Ione.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest. Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
lngleslde (630), San Francisco.

J

John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.
James A. Foshay (641),
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Playa del Rey.
James A. Garfield (566) , Los Angeles. Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Jordan (654), Walnut P ark.
James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
J ames Madison (572), Playa del Rey. Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Jubilee (604). Santa Ana.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Justice (549), San Francisco.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657). San Diego.

K
Kauai (589), Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone 061). Milton.
Kila.uea (330), Hilo, Hawaii.

King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's Seaport (260),
San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.
Koolau. (801), Kailua, Hawaii.

423

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
Lemon Grove (736), L emon Grove.
La Canada (739), La Crescenta.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371)
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Honolulu, Hawaii.
'
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Lexington (104). El Monte
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach. L~beral Arts (677), West L~s Angeles.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
Lib ta (466) B k
fi Id
La J olla (518). La Jolla.
. er s (299), •Santa
a ers
e .
L~berty
Clara.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lmcoln (470), San Francisco
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
·
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lake T ahoe (707), Bijou.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lakewood (728), Bellflower.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lamanda Park (627). Pasadena.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Long Beach (327) Long Beach
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Lorenzo (709), Sa;.. Lorenzo. ·
Landmar.k (253). Esparto.
Los Alamitos (809), Seal Beach
La Parfa1te Umon (17), San Francisco. Los Altos (712), Palo Alto
La Puente (446), La Puente .
Los Angeles (42) Los Angeles
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), 'Los Banos. ·
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Cerritos (674) Long Beach
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Los Gatos (292) 1 Los Gatos
·
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalton (359) Loyalton ·
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Loyalty (529) L os Angeies
Lebanon (495), San Franc.isco.
Luther Burba'nk (752), Santa Rosa.
Leland Stanford (784). Chico.
Lynwood (600). Lynwood.

M

Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
M~ssion Bay (771), San Diego.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia Park (715). Burbank.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manhattan (817), Manhattan Beach
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa .
·
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191 ), San Rafael.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Mar iposa (24), Mariposa.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Mar Yista (820), ~ewport Beach.
Moreno Vc;illey (804)! Sunnymead
Mam (472), Maw, Kahului, Hawaii.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill
Maxwell (288), Maxwell
Morn~ngside Park (742). Inglew.ood .
Maya (793), Los Angeles
Mornmg Star (68), Stockton.
McCloud (430) , McCloud.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mother Colony (750), Anaheim.
Melrose (602), Hollywood.
Mountain Shade (18) Downieville
Mendocino (179). Mendocino.
Mountain View (194>'
·
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mountain View. '
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Baldy (815), Ontario.
Merced (749). Merced.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco
Merid ian (667), Glendale.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
·
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Meudell (695). Bakersfield.
Mount M<?riah (44), San Francisco.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Military Service (570), San Francisco. Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Millbrae (792), Millbrae.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson ..
Mill Valley (356) Mill v. 11
Mount. Vernon (51 7), San Francisco.
Mineral King (720), Visalla~Y·
Mt. Wilson (794). Altadena

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
N

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued

Northern California Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (6 19), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North But te (230), Gridley.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188). Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Santa Monica.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Old West (813), Newhall.
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
P arnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
P aul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598),
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
P enrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corn ing.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plaza de Los Angeles (814),
Los Angeles.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
P oint (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), Sacramento
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), R ialto •
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rim of the World (711), Twin Peaks.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank ,
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland~

Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Selma (277), Selma.
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
Sierra (788), Oakhurst.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
San Antonio (694), Bell.
Sierra Valley (184) Sierra.ville.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. Signal (543), Long Beach.
Sifverado (782), Napa.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dieguito (775), Carditf-by-theSea. Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Simi Valley (806), S imi.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
San Fernando (343), San F ernando.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
San Francisco-Victory (360),
Smyrna (532), C eres.
San Francisco.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony!ord.
San Gabriel (546) , San Gabriel.
Sojourner (607), Duarte.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
San. Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Southern Oalifornia (278),
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Los Angeles.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Southern California Research
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
Lodge, L os Angeles.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
Boulder Creek.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
San Marino (685), San Marino.
South Park (563), Hawthorne.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
South Pasadena (367),
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
South Pasadena..
San P ablo (754), San Pablo.
South San Francisco (212),
San Pasqual (452). Pasadena.
South San Francisco.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
South West (283), National City.
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
San Francisco.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara. Stan~ard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Santa Luci& (302), King City.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona
Suisun (55), SuJsun.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Sununit (112), Knights Ferry.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Sun Garden (530) Fresno.
Santa Rosa (157), Santa Rosa.
Sunnyside (577), ~Angeles.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Scepter (808). West Sacramento.
Sunrise (522\Monterey Park.
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawaii.
Sunset (352), LOS Angeles.
Sea.faring (708), Newport Beach.
Surprise Valley (2315), Cedarville.
Searchlight (1567), Long Beach.
S. W . Hackett (574), San Diego.
Seaside (1504), Long Beach.
Securicy (581), Bakersfield.

425

426

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
T a-ft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
T emblor (477), Fellows.
Temescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San J uan Bautista.
The Gabilan (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621), L os Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478). Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), G lendale.
University (394), Torr ance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triad (812), Mont ebello.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), L os Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two R ivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley F orge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Veritas-Jonathan (545),
San Francisco.
Waikiki (774). Hon olulu, Hawaii.
Warren G. Harding (579),
Sacramento
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20)~§acramento.
Way:farer (717), w nittier.
Welcome (255) , Lemoore.
W est Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wes tchester (703), Playa del Rey.
West Covina (758), Baldwin Park.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), L os Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West L os Angeles (373),
L os Angeles.
Westminster (787), Westminster.
Westwood (501), Westwood.
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba L inda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), Walnut Park
Zenith (768), Van Nuy1.

Vermont Square (515), Inglewood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victoria Palms (810), Riverside.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
White P in.e (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier .
William B. Ogden (816), H ollyw ood.
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes H ervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedurnah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (1 31), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodland H ills (811), Canoga Park.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.
Yu cca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "California Freemason," copies of which have been sent
to each Grand Lodge. This program will be continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly
and each copy carries additional reviews. Hence,
they do not appear in these Proceedings.

427

429

PROCEEDING S OF THE.

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

INDEX FOR 1965

Amend Subsection 2 of Sections 246 and 403 C.M.C.Group Two Investment
3
Resolution Presented ···················-························································· 2 6
Legislation -····u······································-···················································· 237
Amendment s to By-Laws
Reported by Grand Secretary (Exhibit B) ..................................................
1

Balloting
Resolution Presented ·-··················································································· 243
Legislation ······-······-································ ····-····················································· 244
Bible Presentation
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 257
Legislation ....................... ............... ......................................... ........................... 259
Biography, Theodore Meriam......... ........................ ........................ .......................
1
Blood Banks ................................................................................ .............................. 102
Board of Control
Report of ·······································································-······················ ·············· 100
Members Listed ···-································-························································· 362
Boards of Relief
....................... ............................... ..................... ...................... ......... 101
Boards of Relief (Mandatory Membership )
Resolution Presented ...................................................................... ................ 248
Resolution Withdrawn .................................................................................... 249
Boron Lodge U.D., Dispensated ........................ ...................................................... 115
Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit... ..................... ..........................................299, 302
Burt Trust Fund........................ ....................... ......................................................... 308
By-Laws

291

Budget
Appropriatio ns, 1965-66.................................................................................... 263

428

A
Additions and Replacement s Reserve
Audit .................................................................................................................... 324
Advance Remissio? of Dues
.
Grand Masters Recommenda tion
........................ ......................................... . 212

~~~=~~:?:R~i~st~it~~1e~:: : : : :: : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : :::: :: :: : : : : : : : !~~

fi
~~~~~~~~~t~ -~~~~~~:?:~::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
Annual Returns

~~~;is··b·:Y-·L<;ages::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3~~

Membership Reported ....................................................................... .............
Appendix
355

~~~:i~

: : :::::::: : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : r~

Application Fees Tabulated.... ................................................................................ 8

App[{i11}I~~:~·~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · i; 2li

Trustees for Masonic Homes ............................................. ........................ . l6, ~
Trustees for Memorial Temple....................... ........................................... 16, 70
Committees and Constitution al Boards ....................................................... 356
Appropriatio ns, Supplementa l
31

A.11:~~~,·~~~·-~·:~: . ·~.·:·:•

•.• ·•: ·: : .:•: ··... •.·:~~~:·~ m

Attendance
Listed (Registration and Mileage Payments) .............................................. 364
Reported .............................................................................................................. 175
Audit of Accounts-G rand Lodge ~ecords
Grand Master's Recommend ation....................... ........................................... 2 16
Legislation ·····-··································································································· 216
Audits

~E~JJt~~;:·::-.:·: : ·:· ·· : :.: :· :·.:· · : ·.: -~: : :·: : : .: : : : : .·: · : -.: : r~
B

Ballot Box ~ecture

254

~~1la~~~ ~~~~-~-~~~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 255

Ballot Box-Paddin g of ~n.terior

206

r::rs1aii1C:~~=--~--~~~-~~~-~: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 20s

~~~~;n~~~~m~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1i~

c

California Freemason
Budget Projection ............................................................................................ 144
Editors of
Grand Master's Recommenda tion. ......................................................... 213
Legislation ....................... ......................... ........ .......................................... 215
Financial Report ending June 30, 1965....................... ........................ ........... 143
Grand Secretary's Comments............................ ............. ............................... 39
Publication Board
Grand Master's Recommenda tion. ......................................................... 213
Legislation ············································--·-·················.. ······························· 215
Reports of Cominittees........................ ........................ ........................ ...... 214, 215
California Masonic Code
Grand Master's Observation............................. ....... .................. ...................... 204
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Audit .................................................................................................................... 333

~~t~~~~~--~~: : _: ::::: : _:: ;: : : : : :_: : : : :: ·~<!

Calling Up Procedures (Gavels used listed at start of each session)
Candidate Education, Grand Lecturer's Report.................................. .............. 55
Candle or Taper, Permit Use of
Resolution Presented ·····-··-··········································································· 256
Legislation .......................
................................................................................... 256
Cemeteries (Masonic), Report of Committee................... ................... ................ 149
Centennials ···········-··························-··-················································· ·················· 24
Certification .................................................................... ........................
....................
3
Changes of Meeting Place
Report by Grand Secretary........................................................................34, 43
Report of Committee on By-Laws.............................. .................................. 112
Report of Committee on Charters ........................ .......................................... 115

130

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

................................................................ ~1~
Cha~~~ort of Committee........................
......................................................................................

Covina Home
Report of Superintend ent.. .............................................................................. 65
Report of Trustees.................... .............................. ............. ........ ............ ........... 60
Residents Listed ................................................................................................ 347
Covina Reserve Audit...................................................................................... 325
Special Reserve Contribution s........................................................................ 349
Credentials, Report of Committee........................................................................ 175

Granted ........................
Christmas and Entertainme nt Reserve

299 328

~~~f~bil.ii~m···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::·:·::::::::::: :::::...... '. 350
20

Clothing Purchase-Lodg~ Funds

6

r!:~1areic;;t~~:.~--~~-~~-~~-~~: :::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 206

... 182

Clu bhouses, Reports on

Cod!~:~~;~!~·~;::~~i~~i::;i::::::::::::::::: : : : : : : : :::::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~H

Columbia Temple, Report of Colll:m1ttee ........................ ....................................
Commerciali sm, Report of Committee on........................................................... 130
15
committee ASpointmen ts

f~~~i~:a~~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 35~

213
.
Committee on Corresponde nce
Grand Master's Recommendat10n ............................................... ................... 215
Legislation .................................................: ... ........ .......... ................................. ..
Committee Reports (See R~ports of C:omm1ttees)
3
Committee Structure, Special Com!111ttee on
213
Grand Master's Recommenda t10n ................. ....................... ............... · ....... 21
com~~:J_~~tfki~s..B'ei;;:,·e·e·n·cra.'n~i"i..O<lie J~ris~ff~·iio:i:i-s-- .. ....... ..........
Grand Master's Observation ..._. ..... :................................. ......... ....................... . 203
.......... 222
Concurrent Jurisdiction and Publication
223
······
·······································--·····
Resolution Presented ···········-···········
.
......................
·
·
·
··
Legislation ........................ ..................... ···· .... ··.............. ·······
203
Conduct of Officers/Mem bers
Grand Master's Observation........................ ........................ ........................... .

..

0ots 3~a~1§~~retary.....................··................ ....... ··· ··--·--··::::::::::: ::::::::: 1~~
Con5.Ji!~i:f
Report of Comm1~tee on Charters .................. ....... ................... ..

420

Constituent Lodges Listed

g~~Eg1~;~~!:;:_::~~~~:::::~:::. ·: . :. .·.:. ~~~:: . ~:. :.::.~_::: :ti
Constitution Observance

.

28

~~~~~~fs~e~~;~~a~-~~~-~~:::::::::::::_:::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~1~

Standing Committee Recommend ation....................... ................................ .

Con~hbrl;~n:i, and Entertainme nt Reserve................................................71~8 agg

~;~~';tlmi:f~~~~~~..".".·.·:.-.·: :_-_-_-_-_-_·.: ·:.-.·: :.-.·: .-.·: : : :.-_·_-_-_-_·_·:.".-_-_·:.·:.·::::::::::: .".·::::::::::.·.·:.".".·:....:.. ... '349

2
Contribution s Levied Upon Lodges
28
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 229

Cop;~~:a~~~c~··:::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 5~

Cornerstone Ceremonies, Grand Lecturer's Remarks....................... .............. .
200
Cornerstone Ceremony Teams
Grand Master's Observation............................................................................ 200
Legislation .............................................................................................. ........... .
39
")
.
.
Corresponde nce Committee
Grand Secretary's Comments ~"California Freemason ........................
213
143
...................
Grand Master's Recommend ation...............................................
Report of ............................................... ............................................................... 427
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges............................................. .

431

D

Decisions of Grand Master
Reported by Grand Master .... .......................................................................... 205
Report of Committees............... ........ ................... ..................... .............. ... 205, 208
Decoto Home (Union City)
Report of Superintende nt................... ........................ ..................................... 63
Report of Homes Trustees........ ....... ....... . . .... .. . .... ........... ......... .... ........ .. .. ..... 59
Residents Listed ...... ............................. ..... ............ ............... ............................. 338
Decoto Reserve Audit. .................. .. ..................... ......... .. ....... .. .......................... 326
Special Reserve Contribution s ........................................ .............................. 349
Tabulated...................... ..................................................................... 387
Degree Fees
Degrees Conferred
Tabulated by Lodges ............ ......... ........... .. ................. ......................... .......... . 387
Reported............................... .. ... . ............................ ................... ......... 35
Totals
DeMolay
Grand Master's Decision (Breakfast Tickets).............................................. 205
Legislation .............................................. ... .... ............ ........ ........................ 205
Grand Master's Proclamation ..... ......... ............. .......................... .... ... .......... .... 25
Report of Special Committee .......... ......................... ........... ............... ............. 156
Devotional Service .......... ............................. ... ........... ...... ............ ........ ................. .... 9
Directors of Masonic Clubhouses
............... .. ........... 363
Names of...... .................................................. ........ ........
Report of Berkeley ...... ......... .......................................... ... ............... ............. 182
... ............................................... .. ...... 186
Report of Los Angeles........ ......
Discipline
Grand Master's Action...................................................................................... 204
Approval............................. ....................................................... 204
Grand
s
DispensationLodge
35
New Lodges .. ···-····--································-·······················································
....... 40
Miscellaneou s ·······-················-...................................................................
41
...
....
.......
Approved ..................................................................... ........................
Dispense with Motion and Second on Resolutions
Presented-W ithdrawn ................................................ .............. 224
Resolution
of Emblems
Display
Resolution Presented ....................... ............................................... .................. 234
Legislation ................... ....... ............ ............. ........................ ........................ ....... 235
Distinguishe d Guests
Addressed Grand Lodge............ ...................................................................... 30
Listed ······················· ················-··················································· 29
Attendance
Committee
Distribution
Appointmen t ....................................................................... ............................... 8
of........................................................... ................................................... 57
Report
Dues
Amendments to By·Laws.............................. .................................................. 41
Tabulation by Amounts.................................................................................... 36
by Lodges........................................................................................ 387
Tabulation
Dues Remissions
Grand Master's Recommend ation ....................... ................................... .... .... 212
Referred to Committee.. ....................... .... ................................................ .... ... 212

E
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization , April 18 A.L. 5850........ 404
Election of Officers.................................................................................................... 269

i32

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Employment Bureaus .............................................................................................. 102
Endowment and Trust Funds Audit...................................................................... 299
Endowment Board
..
Entertainment Reserve Audit. .........................................................................299, 328
Eulogies
Halley James Leo.................................................................. ..................191• 194
Moore.' John Randle, P .G.M .....................................................................191, 275
Miscellaneous .................................................................................................... 190
Extend "Ten Mile Rule" to Twenty-Five
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 240
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 241
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations............................................................ 403

~~g1!r~s~~o~--~~ ~.~~:::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3~~

r.~~~~~~ri~~~1

H

Halley, James Leo
Grand Master's Comment...................................................... .................. ........ 16
Masonic Homes Trustees' Comments.................................. ............... ........... 59

~~~~t~ -~~--~~~~~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: rn!

Homes Statistics
Operating Revenue and Expense ............................................................296, 329
Residents Listed ........................................................................................338, 347
Honor Roll (Endowment Fund) .................................................................... ....68, 83

I

i~~~~~1r~~:;::ii~~~r.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : :·::·: :·: : :·: : ·: : : ~~: ~ii

Insurance, Report of Committee ................................................. ............. .............. 174
Investment Committee, Report of .............. ................ ........................................... 132

F
Fees for Degrees

i33

<.

~:: :~

Financing Operations of Masonic Homes
Resolution Presented ···-················································································· 226

Funre~!r~0;nd ·A"tiart:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Foreign Grand Lodges
Report of Committee ...................................................... .................................. 140
List of Reco~zed Jurisdictions......................................................... ........... 415
Form of Application for Degrees (Amend Question 15)

~~~latl:n ~-~~~~-~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!~

Frank S. Land Lodge No. 819, Chartered ............................................................ 113
Furnish Trowel at Lodge Option
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 237
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 238

G
Gateway Lodge, U.D.

P~fil~f:td...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::20: ~~

Report of Committee on Charters......................... ......................................... 113
Gavels, Used During Communication.............................. .................................... 8
1

8:~;~! t~1h1~~~n-·Ma:~·o-ni~·-Natioii;tl·i\1~~oriai; ..T"hc:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Ig~

Grand Chaplain, Devotional Service.................................................................... 9
Grand Lecturer
Appointment of ···········-···············································································15, 53

GJj~~~i.~~~:~ : :::... ::::;.::::

:J

Grand Lodges Represented................................................................................29, 175
Grand Master (See Meriam, Theodore)
Grand Oration ............................................................................................................ 158

g~~~ ~~~~~~:l;,Rif;~o~r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Great Lights Lodge No. 818, Constituted.............................................................. 19
Grievances, Committee on
Report of ..................................................... ········ ···· ···· ····· ···· ······· ·· ······ ······· ·········· 1l~
Trial Records Listed (Exhibit C) ................................................................... .

J
Jurisdictions Visited ............................................................................................17, 24
Jurisprudence, Committee on
(Reported separately on items referred to committee)

K
King Solomon's Temple.............................. ·-··························································· 154

L
Legislation Proposed
Section 194 (Audit of accounts)
Grand Master's Recommendation.......................................................... 216
Legislation .................................................................................................. 216
Section 203 (Committee on Correspondence)
Grand Master's Recommendation ................................... ................ ...... . 213
Legislation .................................................................................................. 215
Section 205 (California Freemason Publication Board)
Grand Master's Recommendation.................................. ........................ 213
Legislation .............................................................. ................................... . 215
Section 206 (Editors)
Gra!ld ¥aster's Recommendation.......................................................... 213
Legislation .................................................................................................. 215
Section 246 (Manner of investment)

~i~~;~t-.1::~~-~~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 247 (Purpose of fund)
Amen~ent Proposed .............................................................................. 226
Legislation ......................................................................................... ......... 227
Section 249 (Endowment month)

.

te~r~~;~t 1::~~-~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 283 (Contributions levied upon Lodges)

t!11J~~:it..~~~~-~-~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g

Section 313 (Form of charter)

t°J~~0e:t..~~~~-~-~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Section 321.1 (Open Stated Meeting)
Am~n~ent Proposed ..........••••....................................................... ......... 233
Leg1.Slation •................................................................................................. 234

434

PROCEEDINGS OF T HE

Section 333 (Commercial ven tures)
Grand Master's Decisions........... ............................ .......... ....................... 205
Le gislation ...... ....................................................................................205, 206
Amendment Proposed (1964) ... .................... ........................................... 217
Legislation ................................................ ................................... ... ............ 218
Section 334 (Advertising-publications)
Amendment Proposed (1964) ............... ................................................... 219
Legislation .......................................................................... ....................... 220

~~----···························································· 234
Sect~!~~~~~isP~~g;ed~~.~~~.
Legislation ........... .......... ......... ......... ............ ........... .................. .......... .. ..... 235

Section 403 (Investm ent of funds)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... ................................... 236
Legislation ..................................... .... ................. ................... ............. ........ 237
Section 409 (Use of fund s)
Grand Master's Decision .................. ... ................................... ................. 206
Legislation .................. ..................... ..................................... .................... 206
An1e ndment Proposed .............................................................................. 237
Legislation ...................................... ............................. ............................... 238
Section 411 (Discretionary E xpenditures)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 239
Legislation .................................................................................................. 239
Section 490 (Title of Past Master )
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 239
Legislation .................................................................................................. 240
Section 513 (Saloon keepers and barkeepers ine li gible)
Grand Master's Recommendation.......................................................... 209
Legislation ..................................................... .......... .................... ............... 210
Section 518 (Concurrent jurisdiction)
Amendment Proposed (1964) ............................... ................................... 222
Legislation .................................................................................................. 223
Section 522 (Residence within ten miles of Lodge room)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 240
Legislation ........................................................................ .......................... 241
Section 527 (Form of application for degrees)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 242
Legislation .......................... .............................................................. .......... 242
Section 533 (Balloting)
Grand Master's Decision ... ............ .. ................................................ ......... 206
Legislation ................................................................................................. 206
Section 537 (Method of b alloting)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 243
Legisla tion .................................................................................................. 244
Section 551 (Degrees from source beyond jurisdiction)
Grand Master's Decision.......................................................................... 207
Legislation .................................................................................................. 208
Section 554 (Ritual)

~i~~o~t-.~~~~-~-~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~
Section 579 (Secretary to send notice)
~i~~tloe~t--~~~~-~-~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~

Section 605 (Funeral services)
Grand Master's Decision .......................................................... ................ 205
Legislation ............................................................. ........ ........ .. ................... 205
Section 685 (Regulation against gambling)
Grand Master's Decision .......................................................................... 205
Legislation ...................................... ... ......................................................... 206
Section 692.4 (Procedure if accused fails t o plead n ot guilty)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 249
Legislation .......................................................... ........................................ 250
Section 719 (Continuance)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 181

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

435

Legislation ............................................................................... ................... 181
Section 782 (Vote r equired)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 250
Legislation ........................................................ ................. ..... ............. 252
Section 783 (When two-thirds vote may carry)
Amendment P roposed .............................................................................. 252
Legislation ........................................................... ....................................... 253
Advance Remission of Dues
Grand Master's Recommendation ...... .................................................... 212
Legislation .................................................................................................. 212
Amend Subsection 2 of Sections 246 and 403 C.M.C.Group Two Investment
Resolution Presented .......................................................... ...................... 236
Legislation ........................................... ............... ............ ............................ 237
Audit of Accounts-Grand Lodge Records
Grand Master's Recommendation ....... ...... ......... .................................... 216
Legislation .................................................................................................. 216
Ballot Box Lecture
Resolution P resented ................................................................................ 254
Legislation .................................................................................................. 255
Ballot Box-Padding of Interior
Grand Master's Decision.......................................................................... 206
Legislation .................................................................................................. 206
Balloting
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 243
Legislation .................................................................................................. 244
Bible Presentation
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 257
Legislation .................................................................................................. 259
California Freemason
Editors of
Grand Master's Recommendation.................................................. 213
Legislation .......................................................................................... 215
Publication Board
Grand Master's Recommendation.................................................. 213
Legislation ........................................ .................. ........ ........................ 215
Clothing P urchase-Lodge Funds
Gra nd Master's Decision.......................................... ................................ 206
Legislation ....................... ........................................ ................................... 206
Committee on Correspondence
Grand Master's Recommendation .......................................................... 213
Legislation .............................................................. ......................... ........... 215
Concurrent Jurisdiction and Publication
Resolution P resented ................................................................................ 222
Legislation .................................................................................................. 223
Contributions Levied Upon Lodges
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 228
Legislation .................................................................................................. 229
Cornerstone Ceremony Teams
Grand Master's Observation .................................................................... 200
Legislation ...................................... ............................................................ 2 00
DeMolay Breakfast Tickets
Grand Master's Decision ................................................................. _....... 205
Legislation .......................................................... ........................................ 205
Display of Emblems
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 234
Legislation .. ................................................................................. ............... 235

ui~;:i~~~n~r:~-~~:.~.~~-~~---········----··--····--···············--··--···--··· 226
FinR~~~f
Legislation .................................................................................................. 227

Form of ApJ?lication for Degrees (Amend Question 15)
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 242
Legislation .......................................................... ........................................ 242

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Furnish Trowel at Lodge Option
Resolution Presented-··-···-··············································-···················-····· 237
Legislation ················-······-·-················-············································-·········· 238
Liquor
Special Committee Report ................. .................. .......... .................. ... 209
Grand Master's Endorsement of Report.............................................. 210
Recomme nda tion to hold Masonic charges in abeyance.. .... ............ 211
Legislation .................................................................................................. 212
Masonic Funeral
Grand Master's Decision. ......................................................................... 205
Legislation ................. ................................................................................. 205
Masonic Plaque or Sign With Emblem at Entrance to City
Resolution Presented························-······················································- 217
Legislation -·········-······················································································- 218
Memorial Service
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 259
Legislation ....................................................... .......... ............ ..................... 260
Open Stated Meeting Prior to Hour Fixed
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 233
Legislation ...............................................
............. ............................ 234
Permit U se of Candle or Taper
Resol ution Presented···············-·········-······················································ 256
Legislation ··········-·-·········-··············-···························································· 256
Publish Names of Elected Candidates
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 219
Legislation .................................................................................................. 220
Race Track Tickets-Gift to Sell to Lodge Members
Grand Master's Decision.......................................................................... 205
Legislation ......................................................................... ......................... 206

Rece8~~~J·~f:t~r~ffo~:ervation.................................................................... 201

Legislation ...................................................................... ....................... ..... 202
Residence Within Twenty-Five Miles of Lodge Room
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 240
Legislation .................................................................................................. 241
Ritual (Music and Props)
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 246
Legislation ......................................................... ......................................... 246
Secretary to Send Notice
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 247
Legislation ·········-········-··············································································· 247
Special Commit tee on Committee Structure
Grand Master's Recommendation ......................................................... 213
Legislation .................................................................................................. 213
Title of Past Master Retroactive Prior to September 26, 1961
Resolution Presented···················-···························································- 239
Legislation ................................. ............ ........ ......... ................................... 240
Trial Records (C.M.C. 692.4)
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 249
Legislation .............................................. ........ ........ ......... .. ............ .......... ... 250
Trowel Purchase-Lodge Funds
Grand Master's Decision... ....................................................................... 207
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 237
Legislation .................................................................................................. 238
Use Charter Photocopy on All Occasions
Resolution Presented······-·······-········-·······················································- 232
Legislation ..................................... ................. ......... .......... .. ........... ..... ....... 233
Veteran Past Master Buttons
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 224
Legislation ............................................. ......... ................................ ....... .. ... 225
Visitor Resident-Degrees From Source Beyond Jurisdiction
Grand Master's Decision. ......................................................................... 207
Legislation ·······················-·····················-·······-·······-······-··········-··········-····-· 208

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

437

VoteR~~~~fi~~ ~~~~<;;~~ !. .............................................................................. 250
2

Legislation ..................................... ............................ .......... ....................... 252
Vote Required (C.M.C. 783)
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 252
Legislation
Library and
Museum·····························-···························-···········-··········-················· 253
Report of Board of Library Commissioners................................................ 153
L iquor
Special Committee Report. ...................... ....................................... ......... ....... 209
Grand Master's Endorsement of Report...................................................... 210
Recommendation to hold Masonic charges in abeyance ........................ 211
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 212
List of Constituent Lodges...................................................................................... 387
Lodge Financing, Report of Committee on.......................................................... 118
Lodges

~z!i~~~!~~i!sLl_~~. :::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~~

Ch arters Authorized ........................................................................................ 112
Constituted ............................................................................. ........................... 19
Instituted ........................................................................................................ 20, 35
Numerical List .......................................................................... ............... ...... ... 387
Los Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles)
Luckenbach Fund Audit.......................................................................................... 301
Lodge Funds
Clothing-Covina Resident, Deceased Grandparent
Grand Master's Decision .......................................................................... 206
Legislation ···················································--······-······································ 206
Trowel
Grand Master's Decision.......................................................................... 207
Legislation .......................................................................................... ........ 207
Resol ution Presented···············-·············-·················································· 237
Legislation .................................................................................................. 239

M
Maccabee Lodge,·U.D., Dispensated ................... .................. ........ .............. ........ ... 114
Magnin, The Ver y Reve rend Edgar F.
Devotional Service ....................................... .. ..... .... ................ ........................ 9
Manhattan Lodge No. 817, Constituted............... ................................................. 19
Mar Vista Lodge No. 820, Chartered............. .............................................. ......... 113
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley, Report of Trustees.......................................................................... 182
Los Angeles, Report ot Trustees.................................................................... 186
Directors Listed........................................................................... ....................... 363
Masonic Education, Special Committee on
Report of Committee......................................... .................... ............. ...... ........ 145
Masonic Funeral
Grand Master's Decision.................................................................................. 205
Legislation ····-·······················································-············································· 205
Masonic History, Committee on............................................................................ 115
Masonic Homes
Admission Requirements (Grand Master's Observation) ........................ 203
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Balances....................................... . 295
Audit ................................................................................................................ .... 293
List of Trustees................................................................................................ .. 362
Per Capita Survey......................................................................... ........... .......... 262
Report of Endowment Board...... .................... ................................................ 67
Report of Superintendent, Covina................................................................ 65
Report of Superintendent, Union City... ..................................................... 63
Report of Trustees........................................................................................ ...... 58
Trustees Reappointed ···········-········-····················································-··········· 270

438

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

Masonic Homes Endowmen t Board and Fund
Audit ...................................... -... ·-·············--·········-···········--·············-···· ············ ···· 300
B equests ............................... ........................ ...................................................68, 78
Contributi ons Through Lodges .....----- -------····--······· ···-----··········-····--···68, 76, 83
······-·············68, 83
Honor Roll ··············-···--·-····-·-······-··· ···················· ··· ·············-······
Members and Officers, 1965-66.. ............ ...... __ ...... ...... ···· ······-- ·········-····· ······· 361
·········-·-·········--··-76, 79
Memorials ········· --·····-··---···········-··-······ ···················-···········-27
Proclamati on of Grand Master....... ---···· .. ···----·········---············-·····················
Report of Board......... ......................................................................................... 67
Terms of Members...................... ........................................................... ........... 76
Masonic Informatio n, Report of Committee on. ................................................. 173
Masonic Plaque or Si gn With Emblem at Entrance to City
Resolution Prese nted ............................................................ ............................ 217
Legislation ............................................................................... ........................... 218
Master Masons' Attendanc e........................................ ............................................ 175
Meeting Place
Changes Listed by Grand Secretary .................... .................................... 34, 43
Committee Action ····-----···--··-----··----···-------·--·····---··········· ---····---········--····---112, 115
Members' Contributi ons by Lodges...................................................................... 387
Membersh ip
Grand Secretary's Report...... .................... ..................................................... 35
Tabulated by Lodges........................................................................................ 387
Memorial Contributi ons -···--···----··----·------·------····-------------·-------···--·-----··--·------···-76, 79
Memorial Service
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 259
Legislation ·····-···-··--··············-··--·----·------·--···--·--····-----------·--·--·-------------------········· 260
Memorial Service (Necrology ) ............................................................ .................... 190
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
Meri am, Theodore, Grand Master
Photograp h ..........................................................................................Frontispiec e
Biography ........................................ .................................................................... 1
Appointme nt Chairman Committee on Jurisprude nce....... .................... . 15
Appointme nt Grand Lecturer... ..................................................................... 15
Appointme nts for Communic ation................................................................ 8
Decisions .............................................---·-····· ··-·----·······--·-··············----········-205, 208
.............. ·---···--···--- ...... 19
Lodges Constitute d ................... ...... ··----········
Message................................................................................................................ 14
Observatio ns ........................... - ........................................................... .............. 200
Proclamati ons ..... ......................... -···-----·· --···-· --- -····-·· -·--··-·······--··-·--·· ...... .. ..... 25
Receptions and Miscellane ous .. ... _·-·····--· ······- ...... ...... .................... .-----·-·--· 21
Recommen dations ·-----·········-----··········-----......................................................... 209
Special Ceremonie s ........................................ ........................................ .......... 20
Special Communic ations ....................... .................. -- -····· ·······--·---.. ··············· 19
Visitations to Other Jurisdictio ns .................... ......................... .. ........ ..... 17, 24
Merit Roll (California Masonic Memorial Temple).......................................... 96
Message of Grand Master........................................................................................ 14
Mileage Payments
Report of Committee........................................................................................ 176
Tabulation of Payments....................................... ........................................... 364
Moore, John R.
15
Grand Master's Comment. ....................... ····--·--····--··----·--.. ·······-·--·················· 191
Committee on Necrology ....... .. ..... ... ............ ... .................................................
Eulogy for ........... .................................................................. ............. ................ 275
Funeral Service ................................................................................................ 274
Photograp h .......................................................................................................... 273
Mount Baldy Lodge No. 815, Constitute d...................................... ...................... 19

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

439

N
Necrology, Report of Committee........................................ .................................... 190
New Lodges
Charters Auth orized ............................................................................... ......... 112
Constitute d .......................................................................................................... 19
Dispensati ons...................................................................................................... 35
Instituted ........................................ ................................................................20, 35

0
Observatio ns of Grand Master

~~~~~;do~~~~':~t~~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::: :2oo; ~~~

Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointm ent of for 1965-66 ............................................................................ 269
Attendanc e from other Jurisdictio ns................................................20, 29, 175
Election of ...................................... -- ---····--- ............................ ........................... 269
Installed for 1965-66 .... ........... ........................................ .................... ............... 271
7
Present at Communic ation..............................................................................
Since Organizati on ................... ................... .. .............. ........... ........................... 404
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles, Report of Committee on............................ 188
Open Stated Meeting Prior to Hour Fixed
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 233
Legislation ....................................... .................... ............................................... 234
Opening of 116th Annual Communic ation............... .................... ............. .......... 7
Oration by Grand Orator ...... .................................................................................... 158

p
Past Grand Masters
List Since Organizati on .................................................................................... 404
Present at Communic ation........... ............ ....................................................... 8
Visitors at Communic ation .................... ..... ... .................................... 20, 29, 175
Past Masters and Wardens-N ecrology Report... ....................................... 190, 196
Pay of Members

~:b~l!.tfinci?P1]~~~~;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:

Per Capita
Payment by Lodges ...................................................... ................................... 387
Rate for fiscal year ending June, 1965.____ ............................ ........................ 266
Perine Endowmen t Fund Audit... .................................................................. ......... 303
Permanen t Endowmen t Fund ....................................... ........................................ . 300
Permit Use of Candle or Taper
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 256
Legislation ··--···················-························--·· ·· ··········-·· ·-- ·· ······ ........................ ... 256
Policy and General Purposes, Committee on
(Reported separately on items referred to committee )
Proclamati ons
Constitutio n Observanc e ............................................................................... . 28
DeMolay .......................... .................... ............ .................................................... 25
Masonic Homes Endowmen t Month............................................... ...... ........ . 27
Public Schools Week... ............................................................ ................... ... ... 26
Proficiency Requireme nt, Eliminate Question 15
Resolution Presented ............................................................ ............................ 242
Legislation ................... ....................................................................................... 243
Public Schools
20
Dedication s ....................................... ................................................................. 26
Proclamat ion by Grand Master.......................... .................... ........................ 126
Report of Committee ........................................... ....... ............ ..................... .....
Publish Names of Elected Candidates
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 219
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 220

440

PROCEED INGS OP THE

R
Race Track Tickets -Gift to Sell to Lodge Members
Grand Master's Decision............................... ................ . ..................... ......... ... 205
Legislat ion ··················-·······································---········----·····---········ -·--·········-··· 206
Receptio ns and Breakfa sts Reported....... ... .. ............... .......................................
21

Recc:~°nnch~Is~~fsffot~rvation.................... ····---·-······ ··---·········- ···· ..·········· .. ····· 201

Legislat ion .......................................................... .............................. ................. 202
Recogni tion of Foreign Grand Lodges
Report of Commit tee .............................................................. .......................... 140
Recognized Jurisdic tions ............... ............... .................................................. 415
Recomm endations of Grand Master
Reporte d by Grand Master... ................... ............... ....... .................................. 209
Reports of Commit tees ............... ... ......... ... ...... ........................ 209, 212, 214,
215
Registra tion and Mileage Paymen ts ......................................................................
364
Religion, Masonic Eligibili ty
Grand Master's Observa tion ............................................................................ 202
Remissi on of Dues (See Advance Remission of Dues)
Reports of Commit tees
Board of Control ............................................. ............... ................................... 100

~~~~:Je~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~l~

Charters ............................................. ................................................................. 112
Code Commis sion ·······-··························································--·········-·········---··· 188

8~~~~:~i;II~1.~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~i

Constitu tion Observa nce ............... ................................................................. 141

g~!d~~ti!1i~e-~~~---::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

gr1!7i~i~;;··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:::::::::: l~~
Finance .......................................... ............... ........................ .. ......................
....... 261
George Washing ton Nationa l Memorial... ........ ........ .. ..................... .........
... 107
Grievances .................................................................................................... 43,
177
Insuranc e ·---·······························-········-···················--·······-·-······-·-··············---···-·· 174
Investm ent -······----································-······· ················ ·· ··-··························· ······· 132
Jurispru dence (Reporte d separate ly on items
referred to committ ee)
Library Commis sioners ···-······················..····························-························ 153
Lodge Financin g·······-··
Masonic Clubhou ses ··············· ·····························································--······· 118
Berkele y ·-----······························- ·················--······················---· ·-···············--· 182
Los Angeles ............................................. ................................................... 186
Masonic Educatio n .........•.................... .............................................
................. 145
Masonic History ·················--·-········--··-·················-········-·······--··--······················ 115
Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board....... .................. ......... ......... ... ................ 67
Masonic Homes Trustees ............... ....................... ........ .......... ..................... ..... 58
Masonic Informa tion -··········-··· ··············· ·······················-·································· 173
Memori al Temple Trustees............... ....... ......... ........ .......... .......... .................. 95
Necrolo gy ............... ............... ................................................. ...............
..... ......... 190
Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles............................................. ........... .......... 188
Pay of Member s............................................. ...... .. ........ ............... ................ ...... 176
Policy and General Purpose s (Reported separate ly on items
referred to committ ee)
Public Schools ·················-·······················--·· ······--······· ··············- ········-·--········--··· 126
Recogni tion of Foreign Grand Lodges........................................................ 140
Retirem ent Plan ................................................................................................ 181
Ritual (Reporte d separate ly on items referred to committ ee)
Sojourn ers ···········- ··--·-··-- ····························- ··-··-·············-········--·····----· 166
Taxatio n ···-·--······································································································ 104

441

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

Rep~~~~ ~1?!~~fain-Devotional Service............ -----··--················-··--·-·······-·--·-·

9
Grand Lecture r··-·········--·····-·-·········--··········---··········· ·····-·-·-·····---········----· ·········· 52
Grand Master .................. ···-····························· ·...... ············································
Grand Orator ···········--············-········--···········--·················-··-······---·······-·············· 1~:
Grand Secretar y ............................................. .............................. .................... . 34
Grand Treasur er ..................................................... ..............................
............. 30
Representatives of Lodges
Attenda nce Reporte d ................ ---············-·-···--··-···· ·························--········---·· 3175
4

Rese~~:ier,gJg~;,tE~fea~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

6

§[!~~~rI~~~~: _

299

:::::::::·::::::::::::4o3; 420
Reserve s for Special Purposes Audit.............. ............... ...............
........................

Residen ce Within Twenty -Five Miles of Lodge Room

]

Resi~i~~~~~:::z:::i:i::::::: : : : : : : :::: : : : : :·: : : : :::::::: : : : : : :: : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : ~~i

Residen~ at Homes

40

47

3
ii~i~~Ci"ty··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 338

Resoluti ons (Also see Legislat ion)
Presente d -··················--·· .............................. ........ .......................................... 245
217
Rejected -Violat ion of Landma rks ...............
.............................................. .

~i~~1r~~n···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::~~~: ..~~~: ~~~

Ritual, Commit tee on
.
(Reporte d sparatel y on ite ms referred to com!nltt
ee)
Ritual for Placing Plaque.............................. ...............
..... .................................... . 54
Ritual (Music and Props)
Resoluti on Presente d ·······-·······················--···-························---············--·--····· 246
Legislat ion ·······-··--··
Roll Call ..............4.............···--·-········
...............···············
...............·······--·····...............-·-····--······
...............···-······-··...............---············
..............· 2467

s
Scholars hip Fund Audit........................................................................... ...............
306
Secretar ies Associat ions
Grand Secretar y's Commen ts.......................... .. ............... ......... .................... . 39
Secretar y to Send Notice
Resoluti on Presente d ····························-············--···-·······--·············-----············ 247
Legislat ion ..............................
............................................................................ 247
Sessions of Comm~nication
Monday Morrung ···-·······-----·-.. ················--···············-·-····················-----··-·········
2~

~~~~~~ ~o~n°~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::~::::::: 111
Aft

fil~t~~:~~~~~:: : : : : : : :~: ~:~:~: : : : =: ~::~: ~~:: :~: : :~H~I

143

Sojourn ers, Report of Commit tee on ....................................................................
166
Special Append ix ··········--············-······-···········---·· .. ······-····-·········-·-·········--·········--·-···
Special Ceremon ies Reported.............. .................................................................. 279
20
Special Committe~ on Commit tee ~tructure
Grand Masters Recomm endation . ................................................................. 213
Legislat ion .......................................................................................................... 213

442

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

Special Commit tees ................... ............................................. .... ........... ...............
.... 359
Special Commu nication s Reporte d ...... ............... ...... ...... ...............
................... .... . 19
Standin g Commit tees ............................................. ............ ...............
..................... . 356
Students' Loan Fund Audit.. ..... ........ ... ......... ......... .. ...........................
............. .. 306
Supplem ental Appropr iations
289
~ii:i~i~~~·c~~~fft~~-Ii~P-0rc:::::: :::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::~~:: ~~~: 261
Grand Treasur er's Report...... ........ ............. ...................................................
. 31

Visitatio ns to Other Jurisdic tions. .... ............... ................. .. ..
Visitor Residen t-Degre es fr om Source Beyond Jurisdic tion .......... .. ..... 17, 24
Grand Master's Decision ............................. . ...... . ................ ..
Legislat ion ......... ........ .............................. .... ................. .............. .. . ........ ......... 207
208
Vote Require d (C.M.C. 782)
Resoluti on Presente d ............................................. .........................................
Legislat ion .................................. ............ .... ............. .............. .. . .... .............. 250
252
Vote Require d (C.M.C. 783)
Resoluti on Presente d ......................................................................................
Legislat ion ............................................. ............................................................. 252
253

T
Taxation , Report of Commit tee on........................................................................
104
Telegram s, Sent and Rece ived........ ............... ..................................
........ 8
T estamen tary Gifts .. ............... .............. .............................. ..............................
Title of Past Master Retroac tive Prior to Septemb e1· 26, 1961 ............... .. 76, 79
Resoluti on Presente d ......................................................................................
239
Legislat ion .........................................................................................................
. 240
Title Page .......................... .................... ....... .. ........... ...... ... ................ . ...............
.......
5
Trial Records
Listed ............................................................................................. ....................
Commit tee on Grievan ces Report.. ............................... ...... ...... ........... ..... 43
177
Trial Records CC.M.C. 692.4)
Resoluti on Presente d ......................................................................................
Legislat ion ........... ............... ............... .......... .. ......... ....................................... ..... 249
250
Trowel Purchase--Lodge Funds
Grand Master's Decision ........................... .......... ............... .. ........... .................
Amendm ent Propose d ...................................................................................... 207
237
Legislat ion .............. ............... .... ......... . ............ ..... ............... ......
......... .............. 238
Trustees of Masonic Homes
Annual Report .............................. .............................. .............................. ........
58
0
..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Trust Funds Audit................... ...........................................................................
...... 299

ts~~a i.~~~

~~g

u

Unappro priated Reserve Audit................... ........ ................................... ......
299, 327
Unfinish ed Busines s for 1966
Liquor- Legisla tion Prior t o 1966 Commu nication..... ........ ..................
212
Special Commit tee on Commit tee Structu reAttentio n to Consolid ations and Constitu tion Observa nce ............ 213
Study on Audits of Grand Lodge Accounts ....................... .........................
216
Study on Unwarr anted Advanc e Remissi on of Dues............... ...............
.. 212
Unfinish ed Business from 1964
Grand Secretar y's Comme nts....................................... .................................
34
Concurr ent Jurisdic tion and Publicat ion .............................................
.222, 223
Grand Master's Recomm endation Commit tee on
Constitu tion Observa nce .............................. ............... ........................... 213
Masonic Plaque or Sign with Emblem a t Entranc e to City
..............
218
Publish Names of Elected Candida tes ............................................ ......217,
219, 220
Report by Commi ttee-Stu dy of Section 408......................................
209, 212
Ritual for Placing Plaque................. ............................. ..............................
.... 54
Special Commit tee on Commit tee Structure ....... ..............................
......... 213
Use Charte r Photoco py on All Occa sions
Resoluti on Presente d ......................................................................................
232
Legislat ion ............... ...........................................................................
............... . 233

v
Veteran Buttons Presente d-50 Year Buttons. ............................................
....... 46
Veteran Past Master Buttons

~~~latAoo~ ~~~~~-~~~ ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::=::: ~~i

443

w
Wa dleigh Fund Audit......... ...............................................................................
299, 304
William B. Ogden Lodge No. 816, Constitu ted........................ ...............
........... 19

