ARTHUR MELVIN WARREN
Grand Master

ARTHUR MEL VIN WARREN

Grand Master
1952~1953

Arthur M. Warren was born in San Francisco, California, on December 27, 1901. A true native son, he has lived continuously in the
City by the Golden Gate.
He was educated in the San Francisco Public Schools.
At an early age, Brother Warren entered the banking business. After
a successive series of promotions he was appointed Vice President and
Manager of The Bank of California, N.A., Mission Branch, which
position he now holds.
On May 25, 1925, Brother Warren was joined in marriage to Claire
Massey. They have one daughter, Barbara Claire.
As a young man, Arthur Warren came under the influence of many
leaders of Masonry in San Francisco. Their example caused him to
bec~me a charter member of San Francisco Chapter, Order of DeMolay
in January, 1921. He was elected and served as the first Master Councillor of the Chapter, holding office for two terms. In 1922 he was elected
to the office of Scribe, serving in that capacity for one year. He is a member of the DeMolay Legion of Honor, having been invested in 1931.
Arthur Warren's devotion to Blue Lodge Masonry is evidenced by
his more than thirty years continuous service to the Craft. He was
raised in Mount Davidson Lodge No. 481 in San Francisco on May 5,
1923. Progressing through the subordinate stations of the Lodge he was
. elected Master and served as such during 1931. He held the office of
Treasurer of his Lodge from 1933 to 1941. During the year 1932 he
became Secretary of the Masters and Wardens Association of San
Francisco. In 1944 he served as President of the Past Masters Association of San Francisco. Appointed Inspector of the then 40th Masonic
District in 1935, he served until 1939, when he was appointed Assistant
Grand Lecturer. This service continued for seven years. In 1946 he
was elevated to the office of Grand Lecturer. After three years of faithful performance in the duties of that exacting work, he was installed as
Junior Grand Warden on October 14, 1949. He was elected Senior
Grand Warden in 1950, and Deputy Grand Master in 1951. On Ocher 17, 1952, Brother Warren was elected and installed Grand Master
of Masons in California.
He is a 32d 0 member of San Francisco Bodies, No. 1, Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry.
Active in community and civic affairs, Brother Warren is a member
of the following organizations: San F~ancisco Chamber of Commerce,

Mission Optimist Club of San Francisco and the San Francisco Commercial Club.
He was Foreman of the 1948 Grand Jury, City and County of San
Francisco.
During his term as Grand Master, Brother "Art," as he is affectionately known among the rank and file members of the Fraternity, sought
to encourage a greater participation by the Craft in the support of fundamental Grand Lodge programs.
His friendly, gracious and sincere manner struck a responsive chord
in the hearts of his brethren. Inspired by his leadership, California
Masonry achieved new heights in the Public Schools Week Program,
Constitution Month Observance, in the Formation of new lodges, and
in contributions to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.
This is Masonry at its best.

"ranil ljnhgr nf alalifnrnia
I, LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M:.W:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one-hundred fourth
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the 12th day of October, A. L. 5953, and terminated on Friday,
the 16th day of October, A. L. 5953.

Jn mr11tim1111v llqrrrnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M:.W:.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary. this thirty-first day of
October, in the year of Light,
five . thousand nine hundred and
fifty-three.

PROCEED INGS

of

THE M. ·. W. •• GRAND LODGE
of

111rrr nnh J\rrrptrh ita.anns
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

104th ANNUAL COMMUNIC ATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Monday, October 12, A. D. 1953, A. L. 5953
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 16, A. D. 1953, A. L. 5953
Copyright 1953
Printed in the United States of America. All rightl in this book are reserved.
No part thereof may be reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written
permission from the Grand Lodge of California, except that quotation1 may
be embodied in reviews by such other Grand Jurisdictions H have been
recognized officially by this Grand Lodge. For information address Grand
Secretary, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco 2, Calif.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

ONE HUNDRED FOURTH ANNUAL COMMUNIC ATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One-Hundred Fourth Annual
Communication in the Civic Auditorium, San Francisco, on Monday,
October 12, A.L. 5953, at 10:00 A.M.
Roll Call disclosed the presence of the following:
OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LODGE
M. ·.w. ·.ARTHUR M. WARREN........................ .... , .......•....... Granc:l Master
R .·.w.·.FRANK HARWELL, JR......................... ......Deputy Grand Master
R .·.w.·.HENRY C. CL~USEN ......................... .......Senior Grand Warden
R :.W.'.EDGAR V. STEWART, Ja.... _ .......................Janior Grand Warden

V .·.w.·.Lwvo E. WILSON, P.G.M ............................... Grand Secretary
V .·.w.· .ELBERT W. D.w1s........................ .......-······---·····G>and Lecturer
v.·.REVEREND ADAM B. MORTEN ......................... ...Grand Chaplain
W. ·.CLARE B. CAMPBELL... - .......... - .............. Asst. Grand Lecturer
W.'.RALPH M. FooTE. .........................·........... Asst. Grand Lecturer
W. .ARTHUR J. l<AHN ....................... - .............. Asst. Grand Lecturer
W. '.RAYMOND G. TAYLOR........................ .......Asst. Grand Lecturer
w.·.GuY B. MIZE......................... ....................As.st. Grand Le~turer
w.·.AuG~STUS H. ALLEN....................... _ ......Asst. Grand Lecturer
w.·.Loys T. NEWTON ......................... .........................Grand Orator
W. .PAUL A. PFLUEGER......................... ......Asst; Grand Treasurer
W: .HENRY D. 0LIPHANT....... - ....................Asst. Grand Secretary
w.·.CYRIL L. WEEKS ......................... .........................Grand Marshal
W. ·.WINFIELD S. McLEES ......................... ...Grand Standard Bearer
W.'.ALFRED H. NrcOLL. ......................... ..........Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·.HENRY KoeER ......................... .......................Grancl Bible Bearer
W.'.RALPH V. DEVoTo......................... ...........Senior Grand Deacon
w.·.WALTER CLAYTON ..• _., .......... _ .................Junior Grand Deacon
W.'.HARRY H. PoLLOCK......................... ~ ..•..•Senior Grand Steward
w.· .ROBERT BbGAR. ......................... ... - •..•..•...• Junlor Grand Steward
W. ·.ELBERT C. YUILLE......................... .................Grand Pursuivant
w.·.CHARLES E. ANDERSON ........, ......................... ..Grand Organist
W. ·.ALVIN A. HoRWEGE. ......................... ........................Grand Tiler
0

0

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8

PAST GRAND MASTERS
M.·.w.·.oscARLAWLER
M ••• w ••• CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M:.w:.ARTHUR

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

As a prelude to the Devotional Service on Monday moming, a new
song composed by your Grand Organist-"Make a Joyful Sound"with text adapted from the 1OOth Psalm, was heard for the first time.
This song was presented by Brother Andrew Robertson of Mission
Lodge No. 169.

s. CRITEs

M:.w:.GEoRGE L. JoNEs
M:.w:.CHARLES M. WoLLENBERG
M.·.w.·.RoLLIE w. MILLER
M:.W.".LEON o. WHITSELL
M:.w:.WILLIAM B. OGDEN
M.".W.".LLOYD E. WILSON
M.".W.".LESLIE E. WooD
M:.w:.CLAUDE H. MoRRisoN
M:.w:.JoHN R. MooRE
M:.W.".CHESTER H. WARLOW

M:. w: .EDWARD H. SIEMS
M.".W.'.ELLSWORTH MEYER
M:.w:.AaTHUR PAuLsEN
M:.w:.Loms

c. DRAPEAU

2040 officers and representatives from 589 Chartered Lodges and
thirteen Lodges under dispensation, and 26 distinguished guests from
other jurisdictions. were reported as present, and the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, following which the Flag of
Our Country was received.
The Grand Master announced . the appointment of Asst. Grand
Treasurer Paul A. Pflueger to fill the office of Grand Treasurer for this
Communication, and the appointment of Worshipful George D. Gavin
to serve as Asst. Grand Treasurer for this Communication.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Past Grand
Master William B. Ogden as Chairman of the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes. and the appointment of Past Masters Leo E.
Anderson and Thomas B. Copeland to that Committee.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Past Grand
Master Oscar Lawler as Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence,
and the appointment of Brothers Carl Allen and Leonard Avilla to
that Committee.

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES
The Requirements of God
Very REVEREND ADAM B. MORTON. Grand Chaplain
Most Worshipful Sir,
Members of the Grand Lodge.
Delegates to the 104th Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Masons of California:
It is with humility that I stand before you this morning. and with
a prayer to Almighty God that I may be guided to say something helpful.
Let me first express sincere appreciation for the kindliness I have
encountered everywhere. The year will be one that I shall remember.
The friendliness of the men in every part of the State to which I have
been privileged to go has indeed enriched my own life. For the warm
friendship of the Grand Officers I am most thankful. Truly Masonry
"causes true friendship to exist among those who might otherwise have
remained at a perpetual distance."
This high privilege has been mine through the grace of our honored
Grand Master. When the Grand Lecturer unexpectedly visited my
Lodge on a night when the Master was away and, as Senior Warden,
I had to preside, I felt a little overwhelmed. After I had talked for a
few minutes with Arthur Warren I felt that I had a brother and not ·
a critic present, and all tension disappeared. For the brotherly kindness
he has always shown. and for the high privilege of this office I wish
to say a sincere "thank you" to the Grand Master in this open Grand
Lodge.
Several years ago as I sat in the opening session of this Grand Lodge
listening to a very able address by the Grand Chaplain I found my
mind occupied with thoughts about the audience of which I was one.
I thought of the differences represented in that assembly. We had come
from many occupations. The Governor of the State, many distinguished
judges and attorneys. and at least one humble preacher were present.
There were representatives of most of the trades and professions. We
v:ere men from most of the recognized Churches. Some of us were high
ritualists in religious practice and some of us might have found ritual
and ceremony an impediment to our approach to God. We were polee

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

apart in many of our interests and yet we were bound together in the

have indeed been words by which I have lived. A tremendous comfort
in periods of confusion and an ever increasing challenge to higher living.

bond~ of brotherhood. We were united by the cement of brotherly

love into one sacred band or society of friends and brothers. Our conceptions of God might cover a wide field of opinion, but we were all
avowed believers in God and our Grand Chaplain was leading us in a
devotional meditation. I found myself thinking, after all, "What doth
God require of thee but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly
with thy God?"
During ~he past year, as I have participated in many meetings of
our Fraternity throughout the jurisdiction, I have found these words
recurring in my mind, and as I have thought of this service I have been
unable to escape them. The text for our meditation therefore is, "What
doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly, to love mercy, and to
walk humbly with thy God?"
These words come from the writings of the Hebrew prophet Micah
written about the eighth or seventh century B. C. In the lives of many
men there have been times when the experiences of the hour have driven
them to ask, "What are the basic essentials of a religious life?" Micah
had passed through one of those times. On the one hand were many
displays of religious fervor. The people had their ritualistic sacrifices
and kept their Holy Days. On the other hand he found grossness of
life and corrupt practices in the market place. He speaks of "the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure
that is abominable." Of "the man with wicked scales and with a bag
of deceitful weights." He ponders on this conflict of fervor and practice
and asks if God will be pleased with sacrifices? Can we win His favor
by observances and giving of our possessions alone? Then he gives us
his great conclusion, "What doth the Lord require of thee but to do
justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?"
I really discovered these words when I was a young theological
student in the second decade of the century. The conflict of so-called
"Fundamentalism" and "Modernism" was then going on. I entered
training with the implicit acceptance of the views of the group in which
I had moved. I soon heard many of the things I believed seriously
challenged. I would go from teacher to teacher and hear different views
propounded. I found myself asking, "What must a man believe?" Many
times I was confused. I had read Micah's words before but at that
time they came to me like a light in the darkness. My beliefs about God
were in a very fluid state but the basic essentials of my duty to God
were quite dear. What did God require of me? Not to accept this or
that belief, but "to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with
Him." These words have remained with me through all the changing
experiences of life. In all the problems of creed and of race. Amidst
the confusions of wars, and the bitter fights over social and economic
systems. I have again and again fallen back on these great words. They

11

There has always been a tendency amongst men to divide life into
the sacred and the secular. To stress the observances of religion--our
worship services, our sacraments, our support of the affairs of a Church
-as the necessary religious duties. As one said a short time ago, "I
must make my monthly communion." I want to say this morning I
believe that life is a whole and cannot be so divided. That God is concerned not only with our acts of formal worship but with our whole lives.
That He is more pleased when we act justly or mercifully than He is
when we make long prayers to be heard of men. Religion is a positive
way of living. To criticise other men's beliefs, or to tear down what they
have built up is not sufficient. Masons are builders and not wreckers.
The message I bring is that "God requires of us to do justly, to love
mercy, and to walk humbly with Him." I invite you to join me for a
few minutes in considering the content of these three requirements.

1. "TO DO JUSTLY"-We are taught that "justice is that standard or boundary of right which enables us to render unto every man his
just due without distinction."
Men often seem to live on different levels of justice or are satisfied
with different measures of being just. Some appear satisfied when they
do not violate the laws of the country. They may even spend time and
money trying to find loopholes or ways of evading the laws-especially
tax laws-but so long as they do not technically violate the laws they
are satisfled .tney are just. While the keeping of the law is incumbent
on all of us that alone is surely inadequate for men who are taught to
act upon the square.
Then there is the man who measures justice by the mores or social
pattern of his group. He keeps the law but he goes a little further and
maintains the standards of the society in which he lives. Many years
ago I had one such in a Church I served. He was a merchant and punctiliously gave sixteen ounces to every pound, but never a shade more.
He did what was required of him for his family even to the extent of
having family prayer yet each member left home when he could legally
do so. He attended Church but his face was not an inspiration to a
preacher. No one questioned his justice but it was hard to find anyone
who loved him. He was just but I do not believe it was the kind of
justice that brings joy to the heart of God. This measure of justice is
not adequate for the man who really sets his heart to do justly.
Many centuries ago a standard was set up which has remained the
ideal of justice for all time. Jesus of Nazareth told his followers that
"all things whatsover ye would that men should do to you, do ye even
so to them." Jesus said this was the teaching of the law and the prophets.

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I believe we can say that this too is the teaching of Masonry and the
ideal of justice to which every Mason should aspire. The conduct it
calls for in the different situations and areas of living each man must
decide for himself. Two incidents from the time of my youth have
remained in my thought as exempli.6cations of this standard. One was
in the .6eld of sports. A young Indian prince was a member of an English
County cricket team. They played in a league which was to cricket
what the American or National League is to baseball. The young
Indian had achieved a reputation as a good batsman, a brilliant .Gelder,
and an outstanding sportsman. During an important game he made what
appeared to be a brilliant low catch of a fly ball. The crowd cheered
and the umpire signalled the batsman out. The young Indian spoke to
the umpire, the batsman was called back, and the game proceeded. It
was reported the .Gelder had told the umpire it was not a fair catch.
The ball had touched the ground. I do not know what faith that man
professed. He might have been Buddhist, or Moslem, or Christian.
Regardless of this I believe the heart of the Almighty rejoiced over a
man courageous enough to be fair or just in a difficult situation.
The other incident was in a different .6eld. A business executive was
also an amateur philatelist. He had an extensive stamp collection and
was always gathering more. One day a man brought to him an album
of stamps. He didn't know the value. It had come to him in the personal ·
effects of another and had been lying around for a long time. He wanted
to know if it was of value and if the other man would buy it. After
examining the album for some time the philatelist asked if he would be
satis.6ed with tlie equivalent of twenty-5ve dollars. The other ·said he
would be glad to take it. After a further examination the philatelist
told him that if he would take it to a certain .6rm they would probably
give him closer to one thousand dollars.
Some time ago a man somewhat de.6antly said, "The Golden Rule
is good enough for me." He could not get an argument with me on that
point. My problem has never been whether or not the Golden Rule was
good enough for me. It always has been, and is, for me to have that
internal strength and goodness to measure up to the Golden Rule.
To be a good ritualist and a helpful brother in the affairs of the
Lodge is important, but one of the basic essentials of a good Mason, as
well as of a Godly man, is to do justly in all the affairs of life.
2. "TO LOVE MERCY.'' Shakespeare causes Portia to say:
"The quality of mercy is not strain'd;
It droppeth as the gentle dew from heaven
Upon the place beneath: it is twice bless' d:
It blesses him that gives and him that takes.
It is an attribute of God himself;

13

And earthly power doth then show likest God's
When mercy seasons justice.
"We do pray for mercy:
.
And that same prayer doth teach us all to r.ender
The deeds of mercy."
Jesus said: "Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy'."
Many a just man has developed a spirit of harshness toward his
brother's failings. Righteousness can soon develop into self-righteousness and a superior scorn toward the weaknesses of one's fellows.
Many just people pray in spirit "Lord I thank thee I am not as other
men," and are indifferent to the unfortunate. God requires a man to be
just, and He also requires him to be kind or "to love mercy." To be
the kind of man whose instinctive re-action will be to help the weak
and unfortunate. Masonry requires us to walk uprightly in our several
stations before God and man. It also teaches us to be ever ready to
stretch forth a helping hand to raise a fallen brother. Acting in brotherly love to relieve the distressed is incumbent upon all of us.
The highest commendation of Jes us was given to a man, not for a
formal religious act, but for a deed of mercy. You will recall the story
of the man who, while going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, fell among
thieves who stripped him, and beat him, and left him by the roadside half
dead. A priest came along the road. He glanced at the man but, pr~b­
ably being busy with important matters, passed by on the other side.
Next came a Levite, a good lay brother, who took one look and passed
by on the o!her side. Then came a Samaritan, an outsider, who, whe?1
he saw the man, had compassion. He stopped, bound up the man s
wounds, set him on his own beast, took him to an inn where he would
be cared for, and paid the bill. As a standa~~ of conduct to hi.s fel~ow;,
men Jesus charges the enquiring lawyer to go thou and do likewise.
Again in his parable of the .6nal judgment Jesus places the basis
of judgment on the mercy one had, or had not, shown to his fellows.
To the approved the Lord says "I was hungry and you gave me food,
I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed
me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me,
I was in prison and you came to me. Truly as you did it to one of the
least of these my brethren you did it unto me." Those who were condemned were rejected because of their failure to do these acts of mercy.
They had been indifferent to the needs and failures of their fellows.
Masons in California have been kind to their needy older brethren
and to unfortunate children from a Masonic home. We are all proud
of the magni.6cent work being done at Decota and Covina. This year
this Grand Lodge has paid around six hundred thousand dollars for the
maintainence of these Homes and the Masons of California have contributed three hundred and thirty thousand dollars to the Homes' En-

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dowment Fund. We are proud to have been able to do this and I am
sure we all want to see the good work go on.

lives and when something goes wrong with the plan they become <Jngcy
and bitter with God and lose the joy of life. There is a story in the
Bible which we call an Elisha story. It tells about a general in Syria
who was the confidant of his King. He was a great man but he was a
leper. It was told that there was a prophet in Israel who could cure
him of his leprosy and the king sent him to Israel with rich presents and
great hope. He came with his chariots to the door of the prophet. The
prophet did not come out but sent his servant with the message to go
wash seven times in the River Jordan and he would be healed. The
very important person was angry. He thought the prophet would come
out and pass his hands over the spot, and call upon God and heal him.
The rivers of Damascus were cleaner than the Jordan. Could he not
wash in them and be clean? He was going away in anger and bitterness.
If he had not listened to the calmer advice of his servants he would have
missed the big experience-the healing of his leprosy. God doesn't
always work in the way we expect. The tasks given are not those
we wanted to do. The willing acceptance of what He sends: the
cheerful execution of whatever task is ours, and willingness to learn
from all experience is part of walking with God. It brings healing to
our spirits.
Walking with God means trusting in God under all circumstances.
At the core of Masonry is the story of a man who was faithful even unto
death. All Masons put thir trust in God. This means confidence in
God even in adversity. The poem of Job is a classic example. It is
the story of a prosperous man who lost everything and then was himself
grievously afJlicted. His wife told him to curse God and die, and his
friends tried to convince him that he had been very wicked. In response,
and out of his suffering, Job cries, "though He slay me, yet will I trust
in Him." That was the great triumph of Job. His later material success
was incidental. The real richness of his life was that inner resource of
trust and faith in God.

There are brethren present this morning who have given many years
of service to the welfare of the unfortunate. We honor them for it.
One of the greates problems of our age is to help the unfortunate. There
are many in this assembly-line age who are not equipped either mentally
or physically to maintain themselves. Perhaps misfortunte or illness
strikes those who are doing reasonably well and they are soon in dire
need. What are we going to do about it? We can "pass by on the other
side" and allow cancerous growths of need and bitterness to fester in
the body of our society, or, acting in mercy, we can bring our best intelligence to bear to solve these problems and meet these needs. I am not a
Socialist or even a 'welfare stater' and am not especially pleading for
any system. I am pleading that our actions be prompted, not by political
expediency or prejudice, but by mercy toward the unfortunate. Because
many selfish indolent people have exploited our efforts to help we cannot
afford to grow harsh and refuse further efforts to help. There is need
for the finest intelligence to work out methods to help the unfortunate
without encouraging slothfulness. I have a feeling that the security and
welfare of our form of society will depend upon the intelligence and
mercy which we bring to these problems. As individual members of
society and as Masons compassion and justice should guide all our
actions as we live and work together.
3. "TO WALK HUMBLY WITH THY GOD."-This involve~
each individual's relation to his God. It does not set forth any formal
duty or require the acceptance of any creed. What do we mean by
walking with God? We have had many explanations and mystic interpretations which are as mysterious as they are mystic. I do not want
to talk in vague terms which no one will understand, but I do want to
suggest some things I believe are involved in our relationship to God.
Surely walking with God includes a humble recognition of our dependence upon the Almighty. When men were immediately dependent
on annual crops they were conscious that "we plough the fields and
scatter the good seed on the ground, but it is fed and watered by God's
almighty hand". In this age of jet planes, radar, and atomic power we
are apt to forget that we depend upon God. We are in danger of saying
in our hearts "my power and the might of my hands hath gotten me this
wealth". It does us good to remember that we depend upon the unchangeable laws of God in all our enterprises. A humble acknowledgment of our dependence on Him is good for every one of us.
I believe walking with God includes a willing acceptance of God's
will even when it is contrary to our desires. Many want the Almighty
as an ally in their undertakings: they want God on _their side but never
inquire whether they are on God's side. They want to blueprint their

Our own poet Whittier writes:
"Who fathoms the eternal thought?
Who talks of scheme and plan?
The Lord is God, He needeth not
The poor device of man.
And in the maddening maze of things,
When tossed by storm and flood,
To one fixed ground my spirit clings;
I know that God is good!"
The poet walked with God in a great trust and found an inner resource of quiet strength. This inner resource has been enjoyed by many

18

19

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CONTRIBUTIO NS TO LOCAL CHARITIES

Whereas practically every race, creed and color are represented in
this University. many of whom are friends of Masons or of children and
relatives of Masons.
Now therefore be it resolved that the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
p. & A. M. of California be and is hereby petitioned to consider the establishment of a club house, similar in form and character as those established at Berkeley and Los Angeles, at the campus of the University of
Hawaii in Honolulu, Hawaii.
•
Respectfully submitted, ,

To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas our Tuolumne Lodge No. 8, a small Lodge situated in a
community where everyone knows his neighbor, is called upon from time
to time for contributions to various charities such as the American Red
Cross, the Salvation Army, the March of Dimes, the American Cancer
Society, the Tuberculosis Association, our Community Welfare campaign, and many others, and
Whereas our Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 is, we believe, in a similar situation with numerous other lodges, and
·
Whereas it is our desire to be able to make such contributions lawfully, which we are not able to do under present regulations,
Now Therefore, Be It Resolved that Section 159 of the Ordinances
be amended by adding thereto, after the words "fraternal intercourse,"
the following:
"and in its discretion, may expend a portion of said monies authorized by this Section, to make contributions to various local organizations
soliciting funds for charitable, general health and community welfare
purposes."
Done at our Stated Meeting, March 10, 1953.
ELMER R. MERRIHEW, Master
Attest:
/s/ HUGH R. McLEAN, Secretary
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

CLUBHOUSE AT UNIVERSITY OF HAW All
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At a regular Stated meeting of this Lodge held on the above date,
(August 12. 1953) by unanimous vote of those present, the following
resolution was proposed for consideration at the 1953 Annual Communication:
Whereas the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California has established and maintains Club Houses at the Berkeley and
Los Angeles campuses of the University of California for the use of
students at these Universities, and,
Whereas Hawaii is an integral part of the Grand Jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, and
Whereas Hawaii supports the University of Hawaii, a State University of some eight or nine thousand students who come not only
from Hawaii, but from practically every State of the United States and
from all countries bordering the Pacific Ocean, and
Where, hundreds of these students are Masons, children of Masons
or relatives of Masons, and

RICHARD E. STEWART

Worshipful Master,
Lodge Maui No. 472, F. & A. M.
Withdrawn by the sponsor with the consent of the Grand Master.

PRAYER BEFORE BALLOTING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
.
The following resolution is respectfully presented for your consideration at this next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
RESOLUTION:

Whereas. the duty of standing judgment on our fellowman · is .a
sacred and solemn duty and one which should command the best that lS
within us, and
Whereas, \.here are times when an adverse ballot creates su.spicion of
having been cast because of petty differences and of not bemg based
upon true Masonic reasons, and
.
. . .
Whereas, the few moments this resolution would require are ins1gmftcant in the light of securing a sincere ballot.
.
Now therefore be it resolved that on page 47 of the Monitor and
Officers' Manual immediately after: "The Committee has made a full
and favorable report ... ," the following be inserted: The Master calls up
the Lodge. The Lodge is darkened and the Chaplain gives prayer.
By resolution, Alamo Lodge No. 122. Free and Accepted Masons,
Walnut Creek, California, the minutes of July 11, 1953.
R. F. CUTLER, Master
Attest:
JOHN H. DEMARTINI

Past Master & Secretary
Suggested as a type of prayer that might be offered:
Almighty and Eternal God! Great Architect and Ruler of the
Universe! During this moment of reverence. let us contemplate

20

21

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the great Tenets of our Ancient and Honora ble Fratern ity. These
Tenets, based upon Your Word, are the true precepts of our
Craft, and by a strict compliance to them, we can not materially
err. In a moment, we will stand Judgme nt on our fellowman.
Should ou.r knowle dge be such as to conside r him unwort hy of
membership amongs t us, may we not falter in our ballot. Assist
us in Your Divine Wisdom from falling prey to our own human
weakness that we may not be of an adverse opinion or inclination
because of petty differences. We solemnly pray that the ballot
we are about to cast will be completely justified in our conscience
and Your Divine Light. May he who comes to our door for admission know within himself that Truth has prevailed.
Amen .
Referre d to the Committee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s.

the Judge Suprem e the welcome words, "Well done, good and faithful
servant: enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
Some of the reasons for this resolution follow:
( 1 ) The Lambskin apron, the time honored badge of a Mason, is
at present given rather abbrevi ated treatme nt ( 8Yi lines) in
our present form.
( 2) The first degree, the candida te's first impression, is relative ly
short and this addition, in our opinion, would add to its digJ?.it~
and beauty.
( 3) This propose d addition, we are informed, was formerly used .
by Californ ia Masons of an earlier day and was known as the
"Mothe r Lode lecture."
( 4) This proposa l has been discussed on several occasions at our
Masoni c Study Club meetings.
_
( 5) If more than one candida te was being initiated, it could, if de.
sired, be given only to the last one, the others being present .
( 6) The present monitors need not be recalled. An insert stickei
only would be necessary.
The authoriz ed represe ntative ( s) of this Lodge will be prepare d to
discuss this resolution, if desired, with the appropr iate Grand Lodge
Committee.
LEWIS C. 0RBOGAST, PM. & Secretary
Atwate r Lodge No. 622, F. & A. M.
Referre d to the Committee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s.

APRO N PRESE NTAT ION RITUA L
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
At our stated meeting held on June 5, A.L. 5953, the folloWing reso- ·
lution was unanim ously adopted :
"Resolv ed that this Lodge request the 1953 annual communication of the Grand Lodge of Californ ia to consider the incorpo r. ation into our establis hed ritual of the attache d amplification of
the Lambskin Apron present ation."
It may be that, in the coming years, upon your head shall rest the
laurel wreath of victory; on your breast may hang jewels St to grace' the
diadem of an Eastern potenta te; nay, more than these, with light added
to coming light. your ambitious feet may tread round after round the
ladder that leads to fame in our mystic circle, and even the purple of
our fraterni ty may rest upon your honored shoulders; but never again
from mortal hands, never again until your enfranc hised spirit shall have
passed upward and inward through the pearly gates, shall any honor
so distinguished, so emblematical of purity and all perfections, be bestowed upon you as this which I now confer. It is yours; yours to wear
through out an honorab le life, and at your death to be placed upon the
coffin which shall contain your earthly remains, and with them laid in
their Snal resting place.
Let its pure and spotless surface be to you an ever present reminde r
of a purity of life and rectitud e of conduct , a never-e nding inspirat ion
for noble deeds, for higher thought s, and for greater achievements. And
when at last your weary feet shall have come to the end of their toilsome
journey, .and from your nerveless grasp shall drop forever the working
tools of hf e; may the record of your life and actions be as pure and spotless as this fair emblem which I place within your hands tonight. And
when your trembling soul shall stand naked and alone before the Great
White Throne , may it be your portion to hear from him who sitteth as

SUBVERSIVES INELIGIBLE
To The Most Worshi pful Grand Lol:lge of California:
For the consideration of the 1953 Communication of the Grand
Lodge of California, in Octobe r, 1953, the following legislation is h~re­
by proposed, and to which has been assigne d Section 210.01 of the Edicts
and Ordinan ces. in words and Sgures as follow,
Section 210.01 of the Edicts and Ordinan ces.
.
"No person shall hold! or retain, or be eligible for ~embership in
any Lodge who had advised , advocat ed or taught, or w~o ~s or has bee~
a member of, or affiliated with any group, society, association or organization which advises, advocat es or teaches, or has advised, advocat ed
or taught the overthr ow by force or violence or ~ther unlawfu l means
of the Govern ment of the United States of America or of the State of
Californ ia."
Respect fully sub!I\itted,
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR., P.M. La Brea No. 650
MERLE R. HELBACH, P.M. Sunnys ide No. 577
JoHN W. SWANK, P.M. La Brea No. 650
JosEPH A. VIsGER, P.M. Loyalty No. 529
Referre d to the Committee on Policy and General Purpose s.

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AM EN DIN G AP PLI CA TIO N QU

f'

EST ION 13

To the Mo st Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod
ge of California:
. Wh erea s several atte mpt s hav e been
made "wi thou t
quire that a brot her upon receivin
..
,
th M
success to requirWedhto pass a prof kien cy
be reereas the Gra nd Lodg h · d ·
d
'
desirable (.See Ross
a requirement
5t;;) ,
to the ::~e;:~~h:~: ~~=t~~~ctive
is wor thy and wo~ld be of benefit
resolution:
·
y, we, therefore, submit the
following
13. ~o you provide that you will
not, with in one yea r afte r receiv~g thebdegre.e of mas!er Mas on
and have given sati sfac tory evience. y stric t examination in open
Lodge, that I am entire}
proficient and well qualified as a
Mas
1
receive any deg ree or be initiated in ter M
y
an b~d ason, app y for or
zationM, the prMerequisite of members
hip
be a aste r ason.

mig~~e

exam~atio: fo:stt~:t ~:;;:e ~:~ree
Oig::t:s:~~~:

::~

:her~~ ~:d:~~~: opr::s:~

PAUL THOMPSON, P.M . Her mos a
Lodge No. 557
Lom s P. WILTON, P.M . Met ropo litan
No. 646
WILL I. SHOTWELL, P.M . Met ropo
litan No. 646
WALLACE C. MONTGOMERY, P.M .
Met ropo litan
Lodge No. 646
W. RAY MURRAY, P.M . Met ropo litan
No. 646
SAM D. BLAKELEY, Mas ter. Met ropo
litan
Lod ge No. 646
Ref erre d to Committee on Policy and
Gen eral Pur poses.

SPECIAL CO MM UN ICA TIO N CA

To the Mo st Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod

LL

ge of California:

W e:R!~:i~:;eT~nedh respec~fully
submit the
wing Resolution:
f •
at t at portion of Arti cle 1 follo
Section 32 Q d ·
~ances o the Gra nd Lodge of California, r~ding
, "an d' si ~ed
y the Mas
of at
t fifteen cha rter lodg es" b h
read " d ters
· d b leas
gd
h
e c ang e to
~e ~ha~~ere~1:iges:.' t e ~asters of at leas
t twe nty percent of
1 riTefhlye, a hfew bof our reasons for prop
osing this Resolution are.
·
re ten.
as een an increa · h
was first
writ
se m c arte red 1odges since this ·artic
le

the ~~c'!'!~:~::~:r~!r~~~~~g::uired

would automatically increase with
3· It wou ld necessitate that
munication of Gra nd Lod b fth
e ffire~son for c.alling a special comge e o su
c1ent mag nitu de as to be bey ond

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

23

the scope of a part icul ar locality or
a small grou p of cha rter ed lodges.
i. The Gra nd Ma ster may ord er a
special communication whenever,
in his opinion, the wel fare of the fr~t
emity shall require it.
OscAR H. NELSON
Wor ship ful Mas ter
Blackmer Lodge No. 442

·w. M. FLENNIKEN
Wor ship ful Mas ter

S. W. Hac ket Lodge No. 574
'PAUL E. MIDDLESTED
Wor ship ful Mas ter
Nor mal Hei ghts Lodge No. 632
Ref erre d to Committee on Policy and

Gen eral Purposes.

ME TH OD ON BA LL OT ING

•

To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra nd Lod
ge of California:
Resolved: Tha t Section 14 of Arti
cle VI of the Constituti~n of the
Gra nd Lodge of Cal ifor nia be ame nde
d by add ing ther eto the following:
"In the taki ng of such ballot, polling
places shall be established on
or nea r the floor of the Gra nd Lod
ge, one polling place for each fifty
lodges or fraction thereof. which poll
ing places shall have a plac ard displayed showing the numbers of the
lodg es to vote ther eat, and shall be
provided with app ropr iate tally shee
ts,
app oint ed by the Gra nd Mas ter. Eac and shall be manned by tellers
h votiiig delegate shall be requ ired
· to disp lay his credentials at the time
vote to the tellers who shall ente r it upo of his vote and shall declare his
n the tally shee t opposite the name
of his lodge. The first Ma ster or
Wa rde n of a lodg e app eari ng at
a
polling place may cast the thre e vote
s of his lodge unless such vote be
challenged by the Mas ter or Wa rde
n who se vote has been wro ngfu lly
.
declared, in which case, the tally shee
t will be corr ecte d to sho w the correct vote; and the first Pas t Mas ter
of a lodg e app eari ng at a polling
place may cast the collective vote of
the Pas t Mas ters of his lodge, unless
such vote shall be challenged by one
or more Pas t Mas ters of his lodge,
in which case, the tellers shall fort
hwith poll the Pas t Mas ters of such
lodge pres ent at such polling place
and determine the correct vote to be
ente red on the tally sheet. Aft er
voting is completed, the tellers shal
l
cou nt the votes and repo rt the result
to a special polling place desi gna ted
for such purpose, whe re the final resu
lts shall be tabu late d and repo rted

24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to the Grand Master. The Grand Officers and Past Grand Officers
shall vote at such polling place."
ORIS F. SNYDER, Master
Redondo Lodge No. 328, F. & A. M.
EARLE J. EDWARDS, P.M., Secretary
Redondo Lodge No. 328, F. & A. M.
LEON G. KELLY, P.M.
Redondo Lodge No. 328, F. & A. M.
OLIVER J. LEWIS, p .M.
Redondo Lodge No. 328, F. & A. M.
WILSON o. WADE, P.M.
Redondo Lodge No. 328, F. & A. M.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPEALING TEN MILE RULE
To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
. ~hereas, It appears that the growth of our State and Grand Jurisdiction has brought about a condition wherein Section 218 of the Ordinances, dealing with our 10 mile law, is causing much confusion some
dissension, and a general misunderstand ing of it, and that the law is
no longer workable or desirable,
And Whereas, A study of Ross Digest will show such confusion and
misunderstand ing in many instances where this Grand Lodge has endeavored to clarify application of the law,
And Whereas, We feel that repeal of the law will be healthy for
Masonry by providing complete jurisdiction for constituent Lodges not
only over members and sojourners, but also over applicants for the degrees as well,
And Whereas, l£ found that repeal would cause hardship in some
isolated instance such could readily be rectified by the Grand Master and
Grand Lodge under the provisions of Section 217,
We therefore propose the following resolution and urge its adoption.
Resolved That: Section 218 of the Ordinances be, and the same is
hereby repealed.
That Section 212 be revised to read as follows: The jurisdiction of
a Lodge includes all its own members, wherever residing, and all
Mason~, and all applicants for the degrees residing nearer to its place
of meeting than to that of any other Lodge in this jurisdiction.
1

FRANK M. HARRINGTON, P.M.
Guy S. HARTS, SR., P .M.
Withdrawn by the sponsors with the consent of the Grand Master.

25

SPANISH LANGUAGE LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The following resolution is offered for adoption:
·
Resolved, that the policy be established of dispensating and chartering, in proper cases, a lodge or lodges to work in the Spanish language.
The adoption of this policy shall not affect in any manner the power or
authority of the Grand Master with respect to the issuance by him of dispensations from the formation of new lodges.
Presented by
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE, Past Master
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

ABOLISI-llNG LIBRARY COMMITTE E
Be it resolved that the two words "On Library" now contained in
Section 70 or Ross Digest be and are hereby deleted.
Be it resolved that Section 74 of Ross Digest which sets forth the
duties of the Grand Lodge Library Committee be and is hereby repealed .
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General Purposes.

REQUEST OF TEHACHAP I LODGE NO. 313
FOR ASSISTANC E
To the Most, Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
We now come before Grand Lodge of California and ask for sufficient relief to enable us to finish our Temple. We will somehow or other
raise the necessary funds for furnishings. We are submitting figures
showing we now owe $16,973.50 and we estimate an additional need of
$6,650.00 on a minimum basis, to make the temple usable. This does not
mean it will be completed. However, in time the members will raise the
necessary funds for completion.
We now ask Grand Lodge for $23,000.00.
Respectfully submitted,
EARLE. WHITNEY, Master
JoHN H. BiRT, Senior Warden
H. H. BERTHOLOMEW, Junior Warden
GEO. w. BENNETT, P.M.
DoN F. CARROL
A. R. KEELEY, P.M.
G. KouTROULIS, P.M.
H.J. BEAUFORD, Secty
Withdrawn by the sponsors with the consent of the Grand Master.

26

PROCEED INGS OP THE

CONFI RMING IN THE MASON IC HOME S
OF CALIF ORNIA THE LEGAL TITLE
TO THE PERMA NENT MASON IC HOME S
ENDOW MENT FUND
Whereas in 1909 Grand Lodge adopted the report of a special
committee on the Masonic Homes with a recommendation, among others,
for the creation of a "Perman ent Endowm ent Fund of the Masonic
Homes of Californ ia"; and
Wherea s in 1910 the fund was inaugura ted by the Board of Trustees
of Masonic Homes by combining its "Perman ent Improvement Fund"
with the amount of a bequest received that year from the Estate of
Brother Jacob Hart Neff: and
Whereas in 1919 the Masonic Homes of Californ ia were formed
into a charitabl e corporation with powers to take, receive, hold and
transfer in the name of the Masonic Homes of Californ ia title to real
and personal property howsoever acquired: and
Wherea s by the provisions of Sections 79 and 80 of the Ordinan ces
of Grand Lodge. the Trustees of that corporat ion are declared to be
the successors of the Trustees originally appointe d under the resolutions
adopted in 1892, and subseque ntly thereto; and there is vested in that
corporat ion the "title to all property, real and personal, and all rights
of action belonging to said charity, or to which it may in any way become
entitled" : and
Whereas the Grand Treasure r of Grand Lodge by virtue of his
office is also the treasurer of Masonic Homes of California, a Corpora tion, and as such has the custody of the Endowm ent Fund and all funds
of Masonic Homes of California; and
Wherea s an Endowm ent Board of Grand Lodge was establish ed
in 1933 consisting of 15 members represen ting the various Masonic
districts in Californ ia who are charged with the duty, among others,
of issuing appeals to the lodges and to Masons for contributions to
the Endowm ent Fund for the Masonic Homes of California: and that in
issuing these appeals the Endowm ent Board recommends certain forms
for gifts and bequests , and that in all of them it is suggeste d that the
gift or bequest be made to "Masoni c Homes of California, a Californ ia
corporation, to become a part of its Endowm ent Fund" and gifts and
bequests have been made directly to the Corporat ion, all of which has
resulted in unnecess ary confusion as to the ownersh ip of such funds:
and
Wherea s during the current year a bequest to "Masoni c Endowm ent
Fund of the Grand Lodge of Californ ia" was reported by an Inheritan ce
Tax Appraise r as taxable, as was also, in another case, a bequest to
"Masoni c Homes Endowm ent Board of the State of Californ ia"; and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

27

·n each case the bequest was exempted only after objection interpo~ed

~ the Trustees of Masonic Homes of CalifQrnia, and the presenta tion,

by affidavit, of facts showing the creation, organiza tion and purpos_e
the fund, and that the sole beneficiary is the Masonic Ho~~s of _Ca~i­
0
fornia, a charitabl e corporat ion. with the requisite ~rovi~i~n m its
Articles of Incorpor ation with respect to the ultimate disposit~on of .the
funds to a similar type fund in the event of the liquidation, dissolution,
or abandon ment of the corporation. and
Wherea s said Endowm ent Fund was accumulated solely for the
purpose of the support and maintenance of the ~omes .conducted t~:
said Masonic Homes Corporat ion and the entire ~ncome is used by
said Corporat ion for said purpose: now. therefore .
Be it Resolved:
That Grand Lodge does hereby formally and specifically. _in acco.r d. 79 and 80 of the OrdinanE cesd of
ance with the provisions of secbons
Grand Lodge. confirm the legal title in and to the Permanent. n owhe Masonic Homes of Californ ia in the Masonic Homes
ment F un d Of t
b and
of California, a corporat ion, and declares that the sai"d 1ega1 ftl
i e e hit hereby is vested in said corporation subject only to the trusts :ta;
.
"d
d and Grand Lodge does hereby waive, release, a n on
mg to sai un •
f C l'f
·
•t
1
.
a i orma,
a co rporation•
an d qui c aim to the Masonic Homes o
· ·t 11 ·
whateve r legal title or color of title that may no': be vested m
i .' a m
accordan ce with the constitution, ordinances, edicts and resolub~ns o~
Grand Lodge bnd the provisions of the Articles of Incorpor ation o
said corporation.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

Y

f

LIFTIN G BAN AGAIN ST SALOO NKEEP ERS, ETC.
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved. that Section 210 of the Ordinan ces of the Grand Lodge of
Californ ia be, and the same is hereby repealed.
RALPH C. HINE, P.M .• Magnoli a Lodge No. 242
CHARLES W. LUNSFOR D, P.M .• Mizpah Lodge No. 3
Withdra wn by the sponsors with the consent of the Grand Master.

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 335
( Submitted by Committee on Grievances )

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved: That Section 335 of the Ordinances be amended to read
as follows:

For Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1953

The penalties which may be inflicted are reprimand in open Lodge,
suspension or expulsion. If the sentence be reprimand, the Master shall
su~~on the adjudged to appear at the next Stated Meeting after the
dec1s1on by Grand Lodge affirming the judgment of the subordinate
~dge. If the sentence be suspension or expulsion, it shall at once go
mto effect, and the Secretary shall immediately notify the person suspended or expelled and the Grand Secretary thereof. If the penalty be
reprimand and the trial of the charges has been transferred by order of
the Grand Master, then the Grand Master may, after the announcement
. of the result of the trial, designate the Lodge in which the reprimand
shall be given; but in any event the Master who presided at the trial,
or such other person as the Grand Master may designate, shall deliver
the reprimand.
·
Approved by Committee on Jurisprudence.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
At 12: 14 P .M. Grand Lodge was -called off until 1 : 30 P .M.

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 12, i953
At 1 : 50 P .M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
TELEGRAMS AND MESSAGES OF CONGRATULATION
. Telegrams and messages of congratulations wer~ received at different times during the Communication from Past Grand Master Samuel
E. Burke; C. A. Carlson, Jr., Past Grand Master of Nevada; the International Order of Jobs Daughters and from the Grand Lodge of Guatemala.
The Grand Secretary reported that by direction of the Grand Master he had forwarded telegrams to those Past Grand Masters of this
jurisdiction who had been prevented from attending the Communication.
The telegram to Past Grand Master. Earl Warren was worded as
follows:
"At its 104th Annual Communication the Grand Lodge of
California directed me to send its congratulations to you on your
appointment as Chief Justice of the United States and to wish
for you a long career of service to the nation in this capacity."

29

The Assistant Grand Treasurer renders this Annual Report for
and on behalf of the Grand Treasurer, M. W. Francis V. Keesling,
P. G. M., who unfortunately is incapacitated at the present time. Our
sincere and best wishes go out to him for his return to active service to
the Grand Lodge.
Detailed financial statements of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund and the Masonic Homes
of California are included in the Auditor's Reports, to which reference
is hereby made. Also included therein are complete lists of all securities
owned. These securities are all held in safe-keeping by the Trust Department of the Anglo California National Bank, at its main office in
San Francisco.
·
There is also appended at the end of this report as Exhibit AA, a
Consolidated Statement of Total Assets and Liabilities Under the Control of Grand Lodge, as of July 31, 1953.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge is composed of the
Grand Treasurer, the Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the
Finance Committee, the President of the Masonic Homes Board of
Trustees or a Trustee of that Board designated by him, and the Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment Boa'rd or a member of that
Board designated by him. The President of the Masonic Homes Board
of Trustees has designated Brother Past Master Ralph H. Head and
the Chairman of the Endowment Board has designated Brother Past
Master Cyril L. Weeks as members of the Committee. It is with deep
regret that we report the passing of Brother Past Master Charles E.
Moore, who was a highly valued member of this Committee, and who
had previously represented the Endowment Board.
Since the adoption of the Prudent Man Rule by Grand Lodge at its
Communication in 1950 the Investment Committee has met regularly
each three months, and between meetings has performed its duties by
mail or telephone. We have now started our fourth year of investments
under the Prudent Man Rule. By Ordinance, under Section 152.1, the
following provisions were established:
GROUP I. At least 40% of the funds available for investment
must be in:
A) Cash and/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions.
D) Such other securities as are legal investments for California
savings banks.
'

30

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GROUP II. Up to 20% may be invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
B) Preferred Stocks, which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
GROUP III. Up to 40% may be invested in:
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing
requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance company stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts. ·
A report follows showing consolidated market values of the securities
owned plus investable cash, and a record of income on these investments,
as of November 30, 1950, and each succeeding fiscal year-end through
July 31, 1953, including the income percentage return on the total market
value for each year.

was $6,555,093.69. The market value was $6,593,304.78, which represents an increase over cost of $38,211.09.
Following is an exhibit of the combined investment portfolio of
Grand Lodge. with the market values as of July 31, 1953, divided into
the various groups and showing the percentage invested in each group,
together with the income return from each group.
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
COMBINED PORTFOLIO-JULY 31. 1953
(Market Value)
SUMMARY
Annual
Amount
Percent
Income
Group I
of Total
Cash ........................$ 788,ooo.oo•
$ 13,260.00
U. S. Government.. 3,505,106.56
76,691.25
R. R. Equipments.... 287,250.00
8,875.00
Public Utility ..........
13,263.75
430.00
Industrial ................
99,500.00
3,125.00

Total Group I ........$4,693,120.31
CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUES OF SECURITIES AND INVESTABLE CASH
AND INCOME (In Parenthe1u)
Income
GROUP I
GROUP II
GROUP III
TOTALS Percenta1re
Amount Percent
Amount Percent
Date1
Amount
Percent
Amount
Return
S5,&58,829
11/80/50
92.4%
1102,140
364,008
16,124,471
6.9%
1.7%
1.97%
(S94,280)
($4,262)
($120,698)
($22,056)
5,972,988
4,658,248
76.8
889,000
8/18/51
8.6
1,026,726
17.2
2.58
1(74,084)
(Sl8,862)
(U63,939)
($68,203)
4,218,887
88.4
674,096
1,856,121
6,848,864
8/4/62
8.7
27.9
(S85,827)
(120,882)
(S206,272)
($98,614)
8.09
4,898,120
63.6
2,208,658
7,881,805
479,627
6.5
29.9
7/81/53
($102,881)
(U9,89')
(U14,816)
($238.590)
3.21

•

At this point it should be mentioned that while the income on investments has risen from $120,598 on November 30, 1950 to $236,590
for the year just closed, a portion of this added income was made possible by contributions made to the principal of the Endowment Fund.
However, one true comparative figure can be used-namely, the percentage income as of November 30, 1950 was 1.97%. whereas as of
July 31, 1953 it was 3.21 % on the total market value, excluding the
$339,850 invested in Masonic Temple stock and the income thereon.
Nor is the income included from $339,675 of Series F bonds of various
maturities, on which interest is paid only at maturity, but these bonds
are included in the total value.
As of July 31, 1953, on the basis of book . value, or cost, the percentage of income on our total investments was 3.22%.
The book value, or cost, of our total investments as of July 31, 1953,

31

63.6%

Group II
Bonds:
Municipal ................$ 5,150.00
Railroad and
Railroad Equip .. 192,695.00
Industrial ................ 5,873.00
Real Estate .............. 4,350.00

$102,381.25

2.19%

$ 215.91
6,070.00
207.20
250.00

•

$ 208,068.00

$ 6,743.11

Preferred Stocks:
Public Utility ......$ 109,900.37
Industrial .............. 161,558.00

$ 5,260.40
7,390.00

$ 271,458.37

$12,650.40

Total Group II......$ 479,526.37

Return

6.5%

Group III
Common Stocks:
Public Utility ......$ 690,933.23
Industrial .............. 1,172,430.62
Banks-Finance .... 279,234.75
Real Estate ........
66,059.50

$19,393.51

4.05%

$ 38,815.85
59,546.60
13,195.00
3,258.00

Total Group ITI....$2,208,658.10

29.9%

$114,815.45

5.19

GRAND TOTALS ......$7,381,304.78
• Total available for investment;
mostly in Savings Accounts.

100.00%

$236,590.21

3.21%

GRAND LODGE Ol' CALIFORNIA

32

33

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Our investments have continuous supervision by Moody's Investors
Service, and the members of the Committee are well pleased with their
services, represented by Mr. Richard T. Langan, Pacific Coast Manager, who has been faithful in attendance at meetings and most cooperative at all times.
Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Grand Master, favored us
with his presence at the August 3, 1953 meeting of the Investment
Committee. Brother Past Master Ernest G; Bashor, Chairman of the
Masonic Homes Endowment Board, also attended this meeting.
In the past year a larger amount of cash than usual has been kept
in the banks because of the contemplated purchase of real estate for
the Masonic Memorial Temple.
As to Constituent Lodges, we have received the following report
from· Moody's Investors Service covering the period from December 1,
1951throughJuly31,1953:
"Report on Personal Management Service for Constituent Lodges
in California for Period December 1, 1951 to August 1, 1953.
"The volume of activity has increased in our work with the Lodges
on their investment portfolios, especially in the last eight months. In
the time from December 1, 1952 to August 1, 1953 there were 93 periodic reports prepareq reviewing the portfolios and suggesting changes
where advantageous. These periodic reports are those made subsequent to the original report. Since service started in December 1951
we have prepared and mailed 144 such reports. (Periodic after original reports). Of this total it is significant that 93 were in the last 8
months' period indicating a definitely increased volume. These reports include an analysis of the outlook. summary of the portfolio and specific
recommendations. ( 72 Original Reports, 144 Subsequent, Total 216.)
"Since inception of service 96 Lodges have made inquiry of us
concerning investments. The number making original inquiry as time
passes naturally tends to decline. However, in the latest period of 8
months some of the larger lodges have inquired and been reported on.
"The amount of funds supervised for the Lodges amounted to
$2,835,968.22 as of August 1, 1953. This shows an increase of about
$730,000 from a year earlier.
"Our original reports on Lodges resulted in decreased fixed income
items yielding little or no income such as cash and U. S. Savings Bonds
and in increased securities in Groups II and III giving much better
returns. In view of- our expectation as to the business and investment
outlook at the time of the first reports on most of the Lodges we suggested 20% (as against the maximum of 40%) be placed in Group
III. This resulted in increased income. In subsequent reports to the
Lodges we have been suggesting a further small increase in sound income producing stocks to 25%. This will give another bpost to their

income while at the same time it will r .
.
e~amlevels
considerable leeway for
later.. acquisition of equities at mo re a ttractive
The degree of cooperation is hi h W f'
·
the smaller portfolios are likel t g ·
e md that the Lodges with
wit~out deviation indicating th!r ~e~~r7 out the recommendations
advice. Some of the larger Lod
d
or a trustworthy source of
closely probably because of grea~es o ;~t foll~w our suggestions as
hers' opinions and because of I er co~ ;~ce m some of their memThese differences are not trulyonbge~ bam1 iarity with such problems.
.
·
as1c ecause they
.
f
may consist, or
exampIe, ID a preference for one sou d t k
"I
Id
n s oc over another one
t wou also appear to us that the P
.
which has been made available ta the Loersonal Ma~agement Service
improve their investment position th
hdges has stimulated them to
they might otherwise not have do r~ug consultation with us, which
investments or other reasons A ne e~~~ehof lack of knowledge of
have had to work very caref~ll s ·t~ s1 e ig t on this last point, we
their lack of knowledge of investm:t at;umberd ~f Lodges because of
to ~s to see them improve their unde:~ e~~· an0 fit has ~~en gratifying
their portfolios.
s an mg
secunties as well as
the ·~~::.e glad to have received favorable comments from many of
"Moody's Investors Service."

p
.
Lodg:r:~t ~~v:~:=e to bring to th~ attention of the members of Grand

Lodges. The.Gran:~~~~:ts:;;.~r;~~ is ~~ailable free to all Constituent
information to any inquiring Lodge. e w1 gladly furnish the necessary

v· M

h A .
Again we thank the Grand Secreta
tary. our Auditor Walter A Park
t
ss1stant Grand Secreof the Investment Committ~e for e:h . ast h Ia~ter and the members
O>Operation-and we ho
h
e1r w o e earted and generous
"1/ill be able to make this~pto:tt .our Grand Treasurer Brother Keesling
ID person next year.
Respectfully submitted,
PAUL A. PFLUEGER

Assistant Grand Treasurer
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

34

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

35

EXHIB IT
CONSO LIDAT ED STATE MENT OF
OWNE D OR UNDER CONTR OL OF GRAND
ASSETS
Cash:

Custody of the Grand Treasur er -----------------------··--·---------··----------------------·

~~~~f;1~~ i~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Decoto and Covina

resident s account s _____________________________________________________ _
Deposits in transit.---------------··--------------------····-···----··---------····-·-·············-·······
Total cash .. ------------------------··-----------·--------------··------------------··-----·--------···-····
Ac:c:ounts Receivab le --------------------------------------------·---··-·-·-··-·-·····-······--·-···--···-··-····-·-·-··---·-

.. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
LODGE -

JULY 31, 1953
Grand Lodge
(Exhibit A)

TOTAL

$ 1,055, 735.97
46,822.77
2,500.00
9,549.85
4,051.54

$

159,462.74
20,000.00
500.00

Endowm ent Fund Masonic: Homes
(Exhibit A)
(Exhibit A)

$

481,409.46

$

414,863.77
26,822.77
2,000.00
9,549.85
4,051.54

1,118,660.13

179,962.74

481,409.46

457,287.93

5,287.05

3,143.97

551.11

1,591.97

4,272,152.10
2,282,941.59
339,850.00
82,743.51

326,000.00
290,598.56
339,850.00

3,370,452.97
1,277,957.19

575,699.13
714,385.84

18,546.38

64,197.13

12.00
2.00

8,758.16
2,854.00

4,666,970.54

1,365,894.26

[nvestme nts:

Custody of Grand Treasure r:
Bonds -····-····--··-·-····---·-······-···--·-······-····-----·············--··········-········-·····-··--·······
Stocks ···--·····-·-···········-·---···--·-··-···-···-···-····-··-···----··········-·-··--······-··-······-····-·-·
Stock of Masonic Temple Assn., San Francisc o ... ---------------·-----····--····
Notes and contract s receivab le __ ··------------···-------------------------------------······
Cus~od?7 of Grand S~ci;-etary:
Life insuranc e policies _______________________________________________________________________________ _
Real estate and sundry items--------------------------···-···---------·----------------·---···
Total investm ents ---------------··------------------------------·-··-----------------·--···-·-·

8,770.16
2,856.00
6,989,313.36

956,448.56

2,973,485.92
52,995.50

52,995.50

3,026,481.42

52,995.50

34,269.49
$11,174,011.45

$ 1,192,550.77

14,546.37

7,006.00

Capital ··--·---------------------·-·---------------------··---------------------------·-·---------------------··---------------------·-

1,558,218.54
9,601,246.54

238,969.87
946,574.90

5,148,931.11

1,319,248.67
3,505, 740.53

Total liabilitie s, reserves and capitaL·------·-------··---------····-----------·--·

$11,174,011.45

$ 1,192,550.77

$ 5,148,931.11

$ 4,832,529.57

Propertie s: (at cost)

Land, b~ildings and equipme nt - Decoto and
Covina ----------------------------·-···-····-··-··-···-·····-··--·--···---····------···-··----···----·····--··
Option and other costs - Memori al Temple site·---------------------·--·····-·---···
Total cost of properti es _______________________________________________________________________ _
Inventori es • Dec:oto and Covina ------------·-------·-···--·····--··--··------------·--------------------------···

Total assets.---------------·-··--···--------------···--------···-------------··--------·--·----·-··-------·

Liabilitie s:

LIABILI TIES, RESERV ES AND CAPITA L

Account s payable ------------·····--·-·-----·-····-···-··-·-··-····-··-·····--·-·-··-··-······-·--···-·······

Reserves:

Funds held in trust and for special purpose s _______________________________________ ...

NOTE: The above figures were compiled from the three separate audit
reports and can be found in Exhibit A of each report.
.
Details of the Reserve Funds are shown on separate schedules m
the Grand Lodge and Masonic Homes repGrts.

2,973,485.92
2,973,485.92

$ 5,148,931.11

34,269.49

$ 4,832,529.57
7,540.37

36

37

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY

membe~ship, 213,639, is an all-time high. The net gain for the year fs

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Twelfth Annual Report as your Grand Secretary.
LoDGES UNDER DISPENSATION

Lakewood Lodge U. D. and Verdugo Hills Lodge U. D. were both
instituted shortly before the close of the fiscal year.
Each of these Lodges collected but one month's dues during the
year, and at my suggestion the Grand Master directed they be not required to pay the per capita tax. It is respectfully requested that this be
approved.
SAFE KEEPING OF RECORDS

The Grand Secretary's office continues to microfilm all important
records. which are indexed and stored in the special vault at the Columbia Masonic Temple.
Two sets of the Proceedings of Grand Lodge are also kept in this
vault, as are many other valuable records. Additional records are being
moved there from time to time as circumstances permit.

approximately 10% greater than that of the previous year.
1952
1951
1950
1949
1953
New Lodges Formed ........
2
.6
6
3
11
9,252 10,003
8,951
9.183
9,857
Initiated ············--·-----··········
Passed ................................
8,961
8,745
9,125
9,867
9,311
Raised ................................ 10,088
8,711
8,909
9,406
9,179
Affiliated ............................
1,929
1,94,1
2.021
1,950
2,436
Gained by Error ............... .
6
6
12
21
375
358
395
391
388
Reinstated ···········-~---·····-···
Withdrawn ....................... .
1,894
1,497
1,631
1,623
t'.609
Suspended for
Non-Payment of Dues ..
647
776
826
832
871
Suspended or
Expelled for Cause ........
31
34
29
23
. 20
Loss by Error ..................... .
1
11
4
7
5
Died ....................................
3,386
3,298
3,061
3,144
2,821
Number of Members ....... . 190.543 196,800 202,500 207,832 213,639
Dues Remitted ....................
2,820
2,562
2.538
2,506
2,361
Gain ................................... .
5,807
5,332
5,700
6,257
7,345
Number of Lodges ............
624
613
611
605
599

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Special Committee on Ceremonies re installation of Grand Lodge
Officers.
2. Discussion of Public Questions, page 319. 1952 Proceedings.
3. Plural Membership, legislation for, page 329, 1952 Proceedings.
4. Mandatory Proficiency, legislation for, page 332, 1952 Proceedings.
COMPENSATION INSURANCE

In accordance with the authorization issued at the last Communica. tion, and in conformity with the report and recommendations of the Special Gommittee, compensation insurance is now provided for all Lodges
and Grand Lodge carries the expense thereof. A detailed report will be
rendered by the Special Committee on Insurance.
. MEMBERSHIP

In presenting the membership totals for the year, I have shown the
years 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952 and 1953 with the thought in mind that our
experiences of these five years might be helpful in considering problems
relating to the proposed Memorial Temple.
Sound growth is indicated by the fact that we have the largest number of Lodges under dispensation at any time since 1923 and our total

NEW LoDGES

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
George E. Tutt Lodge U.D. located at Campbell. Dispensation
granted November 13, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on December
16, 1952, at San Jose, Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Grand
Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Lawrence Edward Hendricks, Thomas Elmer Daugherty, Henry Peter Sermuks, Vernon Thomas
Cornish, Frank Henry Skeels, Devere Leonard Detrick, Calvin lllingsworth Doty, Glen Lee Siegner, Jerome Frank Malec, Russell Jesse
Brobst, Lee Henry Bockius, Gilbert La Verne Paul. Harold Clinton
Loder, Lester Maurice Rapheld, Stanley Herman Bebeau, George
Sumner French, David Keith Graham, Wayne Bascom Thompson,
Galen Eugene Thompson, Eugene Dwight Archambeault, Jay Gould
Hayzlett, Almer William Laederich, Jr., Richard Volti Jones, Verne
Oliver Miller, Willis James Rockafellow, Thomas Kay Miller, Lawrence Charles Schaper, Edward Martin Band, Harry Oscar Skold,
William Richard Ocken, Neil William Nelson, Joseph Monroe Agee,
Joseph August Feasel. Clarence Fred Helmbold, George David Stroope,
Ellis Alva Rother, Arthur Claire Thompson, Jr., Eugene Siegfried

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Weiss, Carl Henry Nieper, Jr., Eugene Matt Blair, Harry Sidney Kemp,
Kenneth Lawrence Bitzer, William Omer Graham, Carl Lester Ryser,
Bertil Hoyt Lee and Wilbur Rollin Parsons.
Acalanes Lodge U.D. located at Lafayette. Dispensation granted
December 4, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on January 16, 1953, at
Lafayette, Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren. Grand Master, of6ciating.
The charter membership is as follows: Harold Elmer Pauli, John
Harold McCrum, Bayard Hicks Burnett. Donald Barnes Strain, 1:'1~w­
ard Macalpin Smitten, Theodore Murray Terry. Philip May, Wilham
Milo Glogovac, Marcus Merle Matlock, Jack Fred Mainzer, Arthur
Walter Westlund, Alfred Brand, Ronald William Barron, Thomas
Clayton Pauli, Raymond Loney Grant, Donald Moon Patton, Harding
Taylor Crandell, Robert Louis Mainzer, ~enjamin Lel~?d Chapman,
Fred August Mainzer, Clifford Allen Smith, John Phihp Herrmann,
Robert Marion Seay. Jules Allen Hahn. Donald Herbert Sheers, Donald Herbert Fibush. Clarence Andrew Thorne, Frank Arthur Brown.
Theodore Campbell Murphey, Clifford George Lewis, Joseph Peter
Van Overveen, John Emil Kenneth. Harold Bertram Levy. Lester Murta
Johnson, Lisle Italo McKim, Albert Edmund Evers, Waldo Claude
Hamilton, Arthur Warren Evans, Hayden Henry Andrews. Carl Garrison De Tar, Bert Charles Steet, Charles Lowell Johnson, Fred
Charles Davidson, Roy Jackson Heffner, Theodore E. Hall. Ad~lph
Albert Markstein, George Garner Fowler, and Alfred Osmar Lewis.
San Ramon Valley Lodge U.D., at Danville. Dispensation granted
December 24. 1952. The Lodge was instituted on January 16. 1953, at
Lafayette. Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Jack Vaughn Shahbazian,
Maurice Johansen Juul. David Harold Humphrey. Herbert Wesley Van
Delinder, Arthur Monroe Best, James Parley Eaton, Algesir Peronetto,
Lewis Arthur Tromp. John Johnston Graham, Frank Nagel Nelson,
Gay Waite Curtis, Paul Jay Archer, Eric Edward Turner, Aram Va~­
tan Poladian, Leonard Bevan Von Wald, Flood Morss. Lorens Mart~n
Foard, Gordon Hobart Ball, Louis Hansen Kamp. John Sture Erenfrid
Olson, James Orr Kyle, Noble Dorris, John Thad~eus .Cline, Harry
Leo Silva, William Elmer Hamblin, Duncan Sinclair Neilson, Wayne
Lewis Hawkins, Arven Ronald Scott. Nicholas Murdoch Harper,
George Francis Burnett, Alexander Klein, Alfred Edward Hensler,
Hugh McCoy Corum, J. Clifford Beck, William Tyler Marsh, George
Francis Maxon, Phillip John Fay. George Vernon Tudhope, Jr., Ch.arles
Joseph Wendell, Raymond DeEstien Van Tassell, Rudolph Stimac,
.Russell Albert Cannon and Herbert Rewalt Polk.

39

Saint John's Lodge U.D. located at Walnut Creek. Dispensation
granted January 8, 1953. The Lodge was instituted on January 16,
1953, at Lafayette, Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Martin Harrison Quinn,
Paul Ross Dale, Merton Hawley Binker, William James Breese, Hubert
Efton Hathcoat, Emil Maurice Bergh, Robert Lee Wilbourne, Gordon
Arthur Doughty, Raymond Roger Bates. William Edward Stems, Edward Maurice Harris, David Edwin Kepler, John Howard Kepler, Alastair Muir Gardiner, Paul Woodson Stathem,'Stanl ey Salisbury Sipes,
Harold Freeman McNeil, Edwin Nelson Briggs, Nelson Still Parker,
Ray Luther Plaskett, Howard James Evers, Marcus Taylor Funk, Donald Charles Young, Herbert Julius Shelley. Albert Donald Scott, Lee
Edm_u nd Gorman, Charles Exner, Edward Clayton Nevins, Earl Meyer ·
Carlile, Fred Merwin Libby, Sr., Grant Walker Ewald, Elmer Herbert
Mielbrecht, Russel Ellis Henderson, Robert Ray Bolin, Jr.,.Austin Newell Harlow, Dustin Steven Ritchie, Andrew Howard Kepler, William
Alfred Darst, Horace Higbee Robinson, Harold Thurman Winn, Walter Thomas Hanson, John Kiriluk, James Richard Pierce, Gordon Ellsworth Niles, Finley Kaye Green, Wayne Carrol Davidson and Alfred
Ernest Reseigh.
Yucaipa Lodge U.D. located at Yucaipa. Dispensation granted
January 19, 1953. The Lodge was instituted on March 16, 1953, at
Redlands, Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Grand Master, officiating.
The chartu membership is as follows: William Herman McGaughy,
Joseph L. Hofer, Roy Benjamin Lawrence, William Leo Greenwood,
Frederick Perley Marston, Frank R. Cramer, Harry Morris Balcom,
Jesse Hays Passfleld, Joseph Wilson McKenney, Frank Warren Crouch,
Elmer Rkhar~ Hedman, Donald Lee Ruggles, Jack Mooney Roberts,
Floyd Franklin Ward, Frederick Leonard Linne. Hugh Tillman Dismuke, Carl Edward Reeder, Orval Lewis Miller, Melford Allen Woods,
John Alton Edwards, Martin Clarence Lund, Martin Henry Cunningham, Thomas Henry Flanagan, Albert Lee Moore, Gerald Wilbur Parker, William Arthur Schmidt, and Frank Amos Sowers.
Verdugo Hills Lodge U.D. located at Glendale. Dispensation
granted May 29, 1953. The Lodge was instituted on June 12, 1953, at
Glendale, Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Grand Master. of6.ciating.
.1:he cha.rter membership is as follows: Walter Hammond Righter,
Phillip Beniamin Stone, Ariel Castle Harris, Charles Allen Adams,
Clay V. Anderson, Max Rhine Andeweg, Fred Holmes Atwater, L.
V. Callahan, Ray Chase Cathcart, George Percy Cook, James Clarnece Cortner, Nelson Horton Dick, Arthur W. Fenstermaker, Lyle

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

rd Frenc h, James
Coop er Forman, Aubr ey Elliot Frase r, Kenn eth Edwa
rt Alan Ingra m,
Madi son Garri son, Willi s Nath aniel Hunt , Robe
ht Benjamin Lapp,
Char les Fran k Jensen, Fred Harle y Kimpel, Dwig
ur Sam Mittr y,
Arth
r,
Richa rd Gera ld McC all, Willi am Gord on Mille
Bert O'Ne al,
nce
Clare
om,
John Edwa rd Neville, Richard Wilk es Newc
es, Haro ld
Rhod
les
Char
h
Josep
ter,
Lyle Pickering, Samuel Earl Regis
eler, Lyle
Whe
an
Morg
ard
How
ll,
Russe
Paul
Ferd Roellick, Franc is
y Youn g.
Archib~ld Wate rman and Ralph LeRo
nsatio n grant Lakewood Lodge U.D. located at Long Beach. Dispe
20, 1953, at Long
ed June 8, 1953. The Lodge was instit uted on June
er, officiating.
Mast
d
Beach, Most Wors hipfu l Arthu r M. Warr en, Gran
Laure ns Hemphill,
The chart er membership is as follows: Kenneth
el Boles, Curti s
Samu
ge
Geor
,
Gray
n
Floyd Orlan do Maso n, Fred Byro
Harri son Satte rwhit e,
Noah Edwa rd Alwine, Alfre d Lonnie Gray , James
Albe rt Olive r Elsta d,
Gord on Lewis Clark , Willi am Jennings Hass ell,
les LeRoy Hart,
Char
Jim Leonard Whit low, Char les Henr y Boone,
Woo drow Wil,
Cruse
ne
Hora ce Edwi n Whit churc h, Mitchel Euge
Erne st Adol ph
,
Boyte
on
Lynd
son Johnson, James Velasquez, Barra
nce P. DietClare
l,
Bicke
ond
Raym
lin,
Preisser, Char les Franc is Wege
vic, Dona ld Willi am
terich, Darre l Gurn ey Reed, Fran k Russell Budro
Hend erson , Willi s
Penrose, Mood y Park Hayn es, Willi am Herb ert
Wen dell Shaw ,
Boyd
n,
Merl e Knight, James Earl Miller, Irvin A. Larso
Spaw n, Haro ld
Orum
is
Morr
,
Fran k Roy Cleve, Kenneth Read er Brock
ie McC lain,
Limm
les
Char
ews,
Andr
Snow Jackson, Willi am Berley
van Brown,
Dono
ord
Gayl
ers,
Walt
ine
Larra
Ray Alde n Bobbs, Roy
s, Cole J. Holla nd,
Irving Allison Cross , Don Willi am Alecock, Leo Field
Albe rt Shockney,
s
Willi am Joseph Perez, Loyal Willi am Fishe r, Jame
icliff.
Dunn
in
West on Hom er Rodk ey and Char les Mart
nsatio n grant ed
Centennial Lodge U.D. located at Compton. Dispe
1953. at Comp 7,
st
Augu
on
uted
instit
June 23, 1953. The Lodge was
d Mast er, officiating.
ton, Most Wors hipfu l Arth ur M. Warr en, Gran
rd Edwa rd Blum,
The chart er membership is as follows: Richa
Gent ry Fischer,
am
Willi
ns,
Rolla
Roy
s
Kenneth Alonzo Willi ams, Jame
s Willi am McKaig,
Davi d Char les Schneider, Daniel Burt Brya nt, Jame
Ronald Lee Schn eidEuge ne Frank lin Phela n, Herb ert Theo dore Goins,
el Bilchus Prest on,
Rapa
as,
er, Benjamin James Mars h, Fran k Cole Thom
son, Jr., Clyd e
Atkin
am
Willi
s,
Clyd e LeRoy Finne y, Allen Bruce Garri
Runnells,
Aden
ld
Haro
s,
Garri
Ray
n
Mars hall Hend ricks on, W elber
Wilence
Lawr
Ralph
er,
Butch
ght
Albri
ter
Ray Haro ld Larson, Ches
ood
Stanw
n
r, Clifto
liams, Albe rt Louis Hage rman , Jack Leon ard Ulme
etro,
DePi
Paul
lo
Panfi
Smith, Clare nce Jay Rardin, Albe rt James Jensen,
les Hauc k.
Maurice Bern hardt Schro eder and Raym ond Char
n grant ed Aunsatio
Dispe
Bell.
at
d
Two Rivers Lodge U.D. locate

14, 1953, at Bell,
nstitutedGon SdepMtember
~~~tl Zv1!;~fpTu~eA~~2; ~asWi
aster, officiating
arren , ran
·

40

41

B~::erru~:;~:~;~ ~h~~ f~lowt.s:CClaudQ~ult Howd~shelt,
H ··

ClaJd :e
u1senbe""' Fran k
• ur is ruse d K
•
. --J•
C resweII ' F red E dwar d Kopplin Jr· F d Ed
n, . Sr.. Roy
opph
war
re
1
t
Dem
y
Harr
r,
Louis Meye
ne Lavon
Euge
pio,
Mdagg
Ellingford, James Henr y ror~r A:.:t~ Josep~
rt ItaliAlbe
rank
•
oy
arTry
' Eedd ie own d F d . k C
ano Alvin D · Harb our • Cl arenc
e
•
harle s
D
e~1c
rLe
'
Koepplinger, Russell Duan e Evan s • Edwi n ~ng gs, ou1e
od
urwo
H
h
.
S
·
I I
M
Str
Perry • Ch ares
rvm m1t ' ugo Franc is Kelm Add'

::rd ~~=j
:fa:n;,;~:~~ Jacks~~~nG1e:Feste
~;wc:if~~;:~~~ ~~;;~ tf~~:
, John
McQuilJa~ Cliffordea.it M~nH

Earl Kent, Daniel James

~!~~:~t:~J~~: 1~}~~~0:ard, Jeweli Fran k Mco:~el. ~:~ryofe~~

.
Polaris Lodge U.D. located at Nort h S. ac~amento. Dispe nsati on
grant ed Augu st 25 1953 Th e Lod ge was mstit
uted on Septemb 4 '
.
•
N
1953
er
M
Ar h
fol
orshi
W
Most
o,
ment
' at orth Sacra
Warr en,
·
ur
t
P
ating.
offici
Gran d Mast er,

e~kel.
~ A~aR BaumhAnde
e:s1~!0 N::s~o::
:dmS~:;:~~ifa::Thom
Cha~:: ~::~:John
r~
oscoe
un
as 0th C
Brownell

son, Clarence
~ral _Mead Custer,
Robert Allen Downing, Eldri dge Dwig ht D~ rD,
1
W:u~':mi.r7~
~
c:~f
Hav:
ber:
Adel
st
Erne
ann,
~ullm
vant
Strhe
~hf
eier, Robe rt
Lindm
er
H~~o: {;~n, ugen e Landay, Rkha rd Warn
McC arter ,
rd
Edwa
Davi d Allen M~· J.ho; asCD ayton ~~cas, Char les
JameJs ArnhetMMa~hs Dav~ ~a~hew~~uj ~il~:i~ryM~~~~ews,
e~s, Jame
ar1on
osep
N
t
M1ller Clare n G
am
Willi
n
1
Nelso
stus
Augu
olm
Malc
son,
e
ave
Jus
Cl'ff
'k
.
d
F
S
f
1 or'd N euffce
Neuf
rd
Cliffo
am
Willi
er, r.,
htur
~dw~: HenecnryAPrt
NiekrgDarth'. FrRank Cole Norris,RAudr ey Joe Po:; ll •
re z;
G
r
eim
ustm
Jac
JS..
am
~.atson,Yeo,Willi
~Us. LduRtheobrertLeeW11l1
w
W~h~= Wi::~~ Ha: r:D~:ro~
Jr.
00 s an
am
e

0

~ordo~ 'Leee~2~t. Ar;:;;~~:::u::f;r!n;:~x~~~~~ f~~k

~tson,

LIFE MEM BERS HIP

ship'!'~: ~{:~~ll~:i~=r tci:f;~;~d resolutions providing for life member- .

. N
tal No 144 to $312 ·50·• E xceIs1or
Increasing fee: Orien
o. 166,
•
·
N
to $350 00· O k G
00:
$500.
to
341,
No.
rd
Oxna
00:
$375.
to
215,
o.
South Pa;adea Nove
50;
$312.
to
414,
No.
Park N 449 na $0. 367, to .$3~0.00: Arlin gton
G Id W
to 375.00: Wils hire No. 445 to $375 00·
N
Ao e~ Nest
oo'
$500
to
45B
No
Orme
S.
y
Henr
50:
$312.
to
455,
o.
a o.
· : mer1c
•
·
S
F
CI
00·
$350
rt Pike
to
475
. • arenc e . mith No. 482, to $312.50; Albe
'

°·

•

42

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. 484, to $312.50; Acorn No. 494. to $312.50; Argonne No. 514, to
$375.00; Park Boulevard No. 568, to $350.00.
Fixing Fee: El Cerrito No. 705, at $300.00.
DISPENSATIO NS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Plumas No.
60; Arcata No. 106; Drytown No. 174; Bakersfield No. 224; Orland
No. 265; Alisal No. 321; Loyalton No. 359; South Pasadena No. 367;
East Belt No. 391; Yerba Buena No. 403; Hammonton No. 433; White
Pine No. 555; Francis K. Shattuck No. 571; Elmhurst No. 610; Hunters Point Naval No. 706.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Benicia No. 5; Yosemite No. 99; Alisal No. 321; Palo Alto No. 346; Golden State No.
358; Honolulu No. 409; Tyrian No. 439; Schofield No. 443; Stockton
No. 498; Harbor No. 502; Military Service No. 570; Provident No. 609;
Travelers No. 692.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces without reference to a committee of investigation: Oakland No.
188; Orange Grove No. 293.
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months: Southland No. 618; Florence No. 649.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Fresno No.
. 247; Snow Mountain No. 271; Paso Robles No. 286; Menlo Park No.
651; John P. Jarman No. 669; Carmel No. 680.
Special permission for the conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite Union
No. 17; Live Oak No. 61: Alamo No. 122: Laurel No. 245; Oovis No.
417; Culver City No. 467.
Miscellaneous: Chula Vista No. 626.
AMENDMEN TS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: San Joaquin No. 19, to $125.00; LaFayette No.
126, to $75.00; Lassen No. 149, to $100.00; Excelsior No. 166, to $100.00;
Oak Grove No. 215, to $100.00; Downey No. 220. to $125.00: Winnedumah No. 287, to $100.00; Silver Gate No. 296, to $150.00; Santa
Monica No. 307, to $110.00; Temescal No. 314, to $75.00; Fallbrook
No. 317, to $75.00: Alisal No. 321, to $75.00; Redondo No. 328, to
$125.00; San Pedro No. 332, to $125.00; Buena Park No. 357, to $75.00;
Golden State No. 358, to $100.00: Charity No. 362, to $75.00: South
Pasadena No. 367, to $100.00; Artesia No. 377, to $75.00; Burbank
No. 406, to $125.00; Blackmer No. 442, to $150.00; La Puente No. 446,
to $75.00; Park No. 449, to $100.00; Ramona No. 457, to $100.00;
Westwood No. 501, to $85.00: Pyramid No. 562, to $100.00; James A.
Garfield No. 566, to $125.00; El Cajon No. 576, to $100.00; Progressive

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43

No. 578, to $100.00; EI Sereno No. 588, to $125.00; Tujunga No. 592,
to $100.00; Granada No. 608, to $100.00; Menorah No. 623, to $175.00;
Chula Vista No. 626, to $125.00; Victorville No. 634, to $74.00; A.F.E.
Irwin No. 645, to $125.00; Monte Vista No. 655, to $125.00; Citrol No.
656, to $75.00; La Habra No. 659, to $75.00; Ojai No. 663, to $75.00:
Dos Palos No. 681, to $100.00; Westcheste r No. 703, to $105.00;
Magnolia Park No. 715, to $125.00.
Increasing affiliatio~ fee: Excelsior No. 166, to $25.00; Pyramid No.
562, to $12.00; James A. Garfield No. 566, to $75.00; Progressive No.
578, to $10.00; M.e norah No. 623, to $25.00; Westcheste r No. 703, to
$5.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Santa Monica No. 307, at $15.00; Ramona No.
457, at $12.00; Victorville No. 634, at $5.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Pomona No. 246; Oceanside No. 381: Imperial No. 390; Anacapa No. 710.
Increasing dues: San Diego No. 35, to $15.00; Martinez No. 41, to
$15.00; Humboldt No. 79, to $24.00: St. Helena No. 93, to $16.00; Excelsior No. 166, to $15.00; Vacaville No. 134, to $15.00; Oak Grove
No. 215, to $18.00; Durant No. 268, to $15.00; Temescal No. 314, to
$15.00; Kilauea No. 330, to $15.00; Golden State No. 358, to $15.00:
South Pasadena No. 367, to $14.00: Burbank No. 406, to $15.00; Charter
Rock No. 410, to $15.00; Wilshire No. 445, to $15.00; Mount Diablo
No. 448, to $16.00; Park No. 449, to $15.00; Golden West No. 455, to
$15.00; Culver City No. 467, to $15.00; America No. 475. to $15.00;
Argonne No. 514, to $15.00; Loyalty No. 529, to $15.00: Semper Virens
No. 552, to $15.00; Hillcrest No. 573, to $15.00; Wasco No. 583, to
$15.00: Hawthorne No. 647, to $15.00; Florence No. 649, to $15.00;
Meridian No. 667, to $15.00; Liberal Arts No. 677, to $15.00.

Decreasing dues: San Buenaventu ra No. 214, to $12.UU.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: St. Helena No. 93; Sierra ValJey
No. 184; Lodi No. 256; Vallee de France No. 329; Seaside No. 504;
Arcadia No. 547; Hillcrest No. 573; A.F.E. Irwin No. 645; Wayfarer
No. 717; Northern California Research Lodge.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Pacific No. 136.
Provision for legal holidays: Pomona No. 246; Glendora No. 404;
Golden West No. 455: Hillcrest No. 573.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Herman No. 127: Janesville
No. 232: Adin No. 250; Woodstock No. 491; George E. Tutt U.D.:
Acalanes U.D.: San Ramon Valley U.D.: Saint John's U.D.; Yucaipa
U.D.: Verdugo Hills U .D.; Lakewood U.D.; Centennial U.D.; Polaris
U.D.: Two Rivers U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Crocker No. 454: Hawthorne No. 647.

44

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
_ RESOL UTION S

Trave r
Provid ing for chang e of meetin g place: North Butte No. 230:
a
Smyrn
No. 29i; Vallee de Franc e No. 329: West Los Angeles No. 373;
644:
No.
a
Lomit
No. 532; Hillcrest No. 573: Valley Forge No. 587:
San Clemente No. 671: Palm Springs No. 693.
Sisson
Chang ing Annua l Meeti ng to Novem ber: Dunsmuir No. 297:
555.
No.
Pine
White
No. 31 O; McCloud No. 430;
TRIAL RECOR DS

680--P etition for restoration. A member of Sun Garde n Lodge
No. 530. Expelled Febru ary 12, 1931.
Lodge
No. 922-P etitio n for restoration. A member of Oak Grove
1937.
1,
ber
Septem
No. 215. Expelled
No. 58.
No. 1043- Petiti on for restoration. A member of Union Lodge
Expelled Augus t 2, 1944.
on for restoration. A member of Paciflc Lodge No.
Petiti
No. 1105136. Expelled June 3, 1937.
Lodge No.
No. 1121- Petiti on for restoration. A member of Blackmer
1948.
7,
442. Expelled ' June
Lodge No.
No. 1148- Petiti on for restoration. A member of Lebanon
495. Expelled September 7, 1948.
on for restoration. A member of Fresno Lodge No.
Petiti
1229No.
247. Expelled October 13, 1950.
Lodge
No. 1244 -Peti tion for restoration. A member of Carquinez
1951.
2,
May
led
No. 337. Expel
No. 572.
No. 1269- (Retr ial). A member of James Madis on Lodge
Expelled May 7, 1953.
on for restoration. A member of Pohona Lodge No.
Petiti
1297No.
689. Expelled Augus t 6, 1952.
anded OcNo. 1310- -A member of Presidio Lodge No. 354. Reprim
tober 2, 1952.
led OcNo. 1311 -A member of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Expel
tober 7, 1952.
member of Janesville Lodge No. 232. Reprimanded Au-A
1312
No.
gust 13, 1952.
Octob er
No. 1313 -A member of Justice Lodge No. 549. Reprimal)ded
.
6, 1952.
Suspe nded
No. 1314 -A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655.
September 8, 1952.
led OcNo. 1315 -A member of San Pasqu al Lodge No. 452. Expel
tober 1, 1952.
Octob er
No. 1316 -A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled
2, 1952.
member of Pearl Harbo r Lodge No. 598. Expelled Oc-A
No. 1317
tober i, 1952.

No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

45

Octob er 7
No. 1318 -A member of Yount Lodge No. 12. Acquitted
.
1952.
October 7
No. 1319 -A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expelled
,
1952.
ber 4
No. 1320- -A member of Park Lodge No. 449. Acquitted Decem
,
1952.
Janua ry 8
No. 1321 -A me~ber of Naval Lodge No. 87. Expelled
,
1953.
Janua ry 6
No. 1322 -A member of Alban y Lodge No. 686. Expelled
.
1953.
ber
No. 244. Expelled Decem
No. 1323 -A member of Alcatraz Lodge
.
3, 1952.
Janua ry
No. 1324 -A member of Ponderosa Lodge No. 700. Expelled
1953.
14,
Janua ry 8
No. 1325 -A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled
,
1953,
3
ber
No. 1326 -A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Suspended Decem
'
1952.
led
Expel
649.
No.
No. 1327 -A Fellow Craft of Florence Lodge
Febru ary 5, 1953.
Febru ary
No. 1328 -A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled
5, 1953.
Janua ry
No. 1329 -A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Acquitted
5, 1953.
member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Expelled Janua ry
-A
1330No.
5, 1953.
March 3
No. 1331 -A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Acquitted
•
1953,
6
April
· No. 1332 -A member of Doric Lodge No. 216. Reprimanded
•
1953.
Febru ary
No. 1333 -A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Acquitted
3, 1953.
ary 7
No. 1334 -A member of Alamo Lodge No. 122. Suspended Febru
,
1953.
nded
Suspe
No. 1335 -A member of lllinoistown Lodge No. 51.
Febru ary 2, 1953.
April 3
No. 1336 -A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled
,
1953.
6, 1953.
No. 1337 -A member of Covenant No. 527. Expelled May
led May 6
No. 1338 -A member of Moun t Olive Lodge No. 506. Expel
•
1953.
led May 7,
No. 1339 -A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expel
1953.
nded May
No. 1340- -A member of Moun t Olive Lodge No, 506. Suspe
6, 1953.

47

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

46

FIFTY YEAR BlfITONS

No. 1341-A member of Fellowship Lodge No. 480. Acquitted May 5,
5

No. 1342~~ ~~mber of Ionic Lodge No. 520. Expelled May 4, 1953.
No. 1343-A member of Redwood City Lodge No. 168. Expelled May
d d M
.
7, 1953.
ay
No. 1344-A member of Janesville Lodge No. 232. Repnman e
18
11 dJ
13, 1953.
No. 1345-A member of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366. Expe e une •
1953.
No. 1346-A member of Traver Lodge No. 294. Expelled June 3,
1953.
1347-A member of Texas Lodge No. 46. Expelled July 11, 1953.
~~: 1348-A member of Buckeye Lodge No. 195. Expelled June 11,
1953.
No. 1349-A member of Seafaring Lodge No. 708. Expelled July 1,
.
1953.
No. 1350-A member of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657. Expelled
.
July 6, 1953.
No. 1351-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Reprimanded July
1
. dJ
3. 1953.
No. 1352-A member of San Dimas Lodge No. 428. Acqu1tte une ,
19°53.
No. 1353-A member of Lodi Lodge No. 256. Expelled August 13,
.
1953.
No. 1354-A member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. Repnmanded July 2,
1953.
No. 1355-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Suspended September 1, 1953.
No. 1356--A member of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Expelled Sep11 d s
E
tember 3, 1953.
ep,
xpe e
Alameda Lodge No. 167.
No. 13 57-A member of
. d S
tember 2, 1953.
epNo. 1358-A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598. Acqu1tte
b
d S
tember 7, 1953.
eptem er
No. i359-A member of Perris Lodge No. 411. Expelle
b
11 d. s
14, 1953.
.
No. 1360-A member of Concord Lodge No. 117. Expe e eptem er
d d 0
. R .
l, 1953.
cNo. 1361-A member of Bay Ciy Lodge No. 526. epnman e
tober l, 1952.
62-A member of Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Acquitted July
No. 13
11 d S
E
6, 1953.
63-A member of Sacramento Lodge. No. 40. xpe e eptemN~ 13
b
11 d S
her 4, 1953.
No. 1364-A member of Petaluma Lodge No. 180. Expe e eptem er
3, 1953.

NAMB AND LODGB

DATE OP RAISING

Acheson, William John, Durant Lodge No. 268..............................Auguat 18, 1899
Adam, Herman, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44............•......- ....... March 11, 1903
Afheldt, George W., Palestine Lodge No. 351.._········-····-·-·--·····-·-0cober 25, 1902
Alexander, David Hamilton, All States Lodge No. 593............April 12, 1902
Alexander, Louis Sol. Pajaro Lodge No. 110................................ May 28, 1903
Allen, Byron William, Sr., San Bernardino Lodge No. 348........ November 27, 1902
Allen, Glenn L., Cupertino Lodge No. 510.................................... 1903
Anderson, Alfred Henry, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44................ 0cober 29, 1902
Anderson, Gottfred, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296............................ November 5, 1900
Anderson, John Arnold, Everoreen Lodge No. 259........................ April 29, 1903 ·
Armstrong, Leroy Elwood, Oakland Lodge No. 188.................... June 29, 1902
Arnold, Francis Clarence, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19................ December 15, 1902
Atkinson, John Robert. Golden Gate Lodge No. 30..·-·--··-·······-May 9, 1903
Atlass, Charles Koplen, Wilshire Lodge No. 445.. ·-··-·····---~·-·····November 19, 1902
Baird, William Smillee, Southern California Lodge No. 278.... 0ctober 22, 1902
Baldwin, Oroville Charles, Occidental Lodge No. 22.................... March 9, 1903
Barker, Charles Oscar, San Lore!l%o Valley Lodge U.D........... November 15, 1902
Barks, William George, Monrovia Lodge No. 308...................... March 26, 1903
Barnard, Frank Steele, Southern California Lodge No. 278........0ctober 29, 1902
Barlett. Louis A .. Pasadena Lodge No. 272................................ November 17, 1902
Bauer, Hamilton A., Oriental Lodge No. 144................................ November 18, 1902
Bauer, Lewis Jacob, Whittier Lodge No. 323................................June 25. 1903
Bayley, William Stowe, San Jose Lodge No. 10........................ August 12, 1903
Beal, Silas Pryor, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57................................ Februaty 6, 1903
Beatty, James, San Jose Lodge No. 10.....·---·····--·:........•...•....•....September 18, 1902
Beckley, Henry Pitman, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.......................... September 16, 1903
Bender. Harry Bernard, Sojourner Lodge No. 607.................... March 30, 1901
Bennett, George Wilbur, Orovil!e Lodge No. 103........................ April 7, 1903
Berendsen, Julius. South San Francisco Lodge No. 212............ July 16, 1903
Bergerot, Pierre Alexander, Mount Moriah Lodge No. H ........April 29, 1903
Birt, William Randolph. Tehama Lodge No. 3---·-····---------------·---August 18, 1903
Bishop, Julian• Jedediah. Golden State Lodge No. 358................ December 4, 1902
Blank, Charles Alexander, Durant Lodge No. 268........................July 31, 1903
Bliss, Walter Danforth, California Lodge No. l........................October 9, 1902
Bonstell. Edgar Boynton, Humboldt Lodge No. 79.................... December 2, 1902
Borkheim, William I., Pacific Lodge No. 136................................January 9, 1903
Borthwick, William, Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanle No. 371....April 14, 1900
Bramstedt, William Christian, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244............. November 13, 1902
Braun, Clarence Thomas, Oakland Lodge No. 188...................... April 25, 1903
Breed, Herbert Lincoln, Oakland Lodge No. 188........................ November 22, 1902
Breyman, Fred, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.------·-----·---------·----------------Ajlril 18, 1903
Brice. Joseph Albert, Clay Lodge No. 101.................................... November 15, 1902
Brinck, Willlam Albert, Buckeye Lodge No. 195........................ March 14, 1903
Brittingham, Elisha Franklin, California Lodge No. 1................Auguat 21. 1902
Brock, Malcolm, Laurel Lodge No. 245........................................ 0ctober 11, 1902
Brothers, Howard N., Santa Ana Lodge No. 241........................April 6, 1903
Brothers. Joseph M., Alpha Lodge No. 431....•...............................June 1, 1903
Brown, John Wilson, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319........................1\.{ay 19, 1903
Brown, Joseph Anthony. California Lodge No. l........................August 28, 1902
Brown, William Harrison, East Gate Lodge No. 290................April 28, 1900
Bruckman, Christopher. Oxnard Lodge No. 341.......................... September 20, 1902
Bruns, Herman Luther, Mosaic Lodge No. 218............................June 27, 1903
Burden, William Edwin, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8..- ...........•........ April 17, 1903
Burgess, Percy C., Standard Lodge No. 440................................ June 22, 1895
Burgwald, Hugo, M .• Southern California Lodge No. 278........ Feb~uary 18. 1903
Burr, Daniel, Salinas Lodge No. 20L ......................................... May 20, 1903

48

NAME AND LODGE

49

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Burr, Percy L.• Oriental Lodge No. 144---····-·····--·-·····-··· -···November8 18i9Jj02
Burt, Samuel Murdoch, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356..- ...............January 2 2 1902
Bush, Will Pratt, Durant Lodge No. 268 ...................- .......•.......November 9 •
Busse, Frank Adolph, California Lodge No. L ......••.........•....... September g21iJ6~1
Butchert, David Greig, Kilauea Lodge No. 330......·-········-·-····0ctober 1 •
Bye, Charles Richard, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296...................- ... August 23, 1901
Caldwell, William Beatty, Curtis Lodge No. 140...........•............April 11, 1903
Caldwell, William George, Long Beach No. 327........................Aµgust 12, 1902
Caley, James Henry C .. Pacific Lodge No. 136............................July 31, 1~3
3
Campbell, Angus, Crocker Lodge No. 454..........·--···········-·······September 29• 190
1902
Capella, David, Ophir Lodge No. 33......·-····--······-···················November •
Cardiff, Georjje Henry, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38...........- ........... 0ctober \JZOl
Carmichael, David, Oakland Lodge No. 188.......•........................ March 3,
Carpenter, George, Alca~ra~ Lodge No. 244..·-················--···May 22, 190
Carren, John Thomas, M1ss1on Lodge No. 169.................. ,.........•. December 10, 1902
Cavagnaro, Charles M., Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219........ September 9, 1903
Cellarius, Frederick August, Crockett Lad~ No. 139................ August 19,
Chamberlin, David Jerome, Eureka Lodge No. 16........................June 13, 19 3
Childers, Guy Carlton, Service Lodge No. 594.......-·-················May 23, 190 1903
Claassen, Albert, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244....................................January 29, 18 8
j
Clark, Thomas James, Durant Lodge No. 268.......•....................December
Clarke, George A. Yosemite Lodge No. 99..................._............... Pebruary • 901 02
Clough, Charles Andres, Mission Lodge No. 169........................ September 25, 9
Cobby, John Willmott, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30..- ................August 18. 1903
Cogswell. John Benjamin, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244.................... 0ctober 25, 1900
Collin, Harry A., Oros! Lodge No. 383........................................ August 24, 1901
Collins, Frederick Richard, Occidental LodiJe No. 22................July 25, 1903
Combrink, William Ernest, Sr.. Travelers Lodge No. 692........ April 20, 1903
Cook. George Nesbit, Sr.. Sacramento Lodge No. 40.................. May 30, 1903
Copp, Andrew James, Jr., Southern California Lodge No. 278.... November 26, 1902
Coulter, William Fair, Fullerton Lodge No. 339........................May 3, 1893A
Couper. Edgar Ward, Mission Lodge No. 169............................ September 2-r, 1902
Couper, Thomas, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225.................................... March 9, 1903
Cowan, Alexander, Kerman Lodge No. 420.................................. Dec::ember 30, 1902
Cox, Leroy, Lomita Lod11e No. 644...-----·····································May 20, 1903
Craig, William Henry, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30...................:0ctober 21, 1900
Cramore, William Theodore, Pomona Lodge No. 246................ December 18. 1902
Cronemeyer, Ernest Louis. Redlands Lodge No. 300................ 0ctober 28. 1902
Cunha, Joseph Oliver, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410................ April 23, 1902
Cunninghame, William Nassua, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57........ May 16, 1903

i3

bi03

J\

Dales, Edwarc\ Verner, Evergreen Lodge No. 259......................ldne 2, 1899
Dartt, David James, Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571..·-····· arch 14. 1903902
Davies, Frank Leonard, Athens Lodge No. 228.......................... September 1. 1
Davies, William Tremper, Carmelita Lodge No. 599.................. March 26, 1903
Day, Ernest Walter, Service Lodge No. 594................................ September 18, 190 1
Dean, Corbet George, Mission Lod9e No. 169............................ December 6, 1902
Dean, Stephen John, King Solomons Lodge No. 260................ 0ctober 20, 1902
Denson, Thomas Lawerence, Alturas Lodge No. 248................ April 11, 1903
Dickerson, William Warren. Oxnard Lodge No. 341.................. August 2, 1902
Dobie, Clarence W .. Oriental Lodge No. 144.............................. July 22, 1902
Dondero, Aurelio G .. Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219.......•.... November 28, 1902
Dorr, William Raymond, Excelsior Lodge No. 166.................... March 4, 1903
Drace, James Albert. Valley Lodg_e No. 135..·-······-··················-~une 13, 1903 02
Drake, Prank Babbitt, California Lodge No. 1............................ ebruary 26, 19
Duebel, Charles, Occidental Lodge No. 22.................................... November 266, 1190022
Dunlop, John, Amity Lodge No. 370...--···--····-······················November • 9
Easton, Robert Eastman, Hesperian Lodge No. 2&L-............... October 4, 1902
Elkus, Eugene Samuel, Pacific Lodge No. 136......•......-----·····March 13, 1903

DATB OP RAISING

February 5, 1903
Ellis, Milton, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.--.
Emerick, Walter Archibald, Excelsior Lodge No. 166..·-··-·-·-June 25, 1902
Farley, Walter Hawthorne, California Lodge No. L .................. December 12. 1901
Farnsworth, Clovis Alonzo, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38......... _ .. March 10, 1902
Farrell, Sidney Herbert, Jr.. Alcatraz Lodge No. 244................ August 27, 1903
Ferguson, John Alexander, Eureka Lodge No. 16.·---·--····November 15, 1902
Fields, Samuel M., Com_pass Lodge No. 590................................Juuary 10, 1903
Finley, Dozier, Durant Lodge No. 268.......................................... April 24, 1903
Flagler, Albert Daniel, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225..................- .... September 24, 1901
Foster, Evans Robie, Indian Rock Lodge No. 638..-·-·--·---April 18, 1899
Freeman. Walter E., Valley Lodge No. 135................................ February 10, 1903
Frisbee, Jacob Lynn, Excelsior Lodge No. 166............................ September 27, 1902
Gardiner, John Reider, Fullerton Lodge No. 339.......................... March 27, 1902
Geimendorfer, Charles Andrew, lllinoistown Lodge No. 51........January 31, 1903
Getz, Jules J.. Fidelity Lodge No. 120..................................:......... March 12, 1903
Gibbs, Frank, Anaheim Lodge No. 207........................... _..•.......... September 25, 1902
Gleeten, Scott Dillon, Sojourner Lodge No. 607...•....................June 25, 1902
Goedje, Harry August, Oriental Lodge No. 144.......................... May 26, 1903
Goldstone, Leo William, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260........June 29, 1903
Gracey, Robert Cristran, Truckee Lodge No. 200...................... February 3, 1902
Graeff, Hallett Beard, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319........................ May 23, 1903
Grant, Robert Bruce, Hesperian Lodge No. 264.....;.................... November 21, 1902
Grant, William Henry, Coalinga Lodge No. 387.......................... 0ctober 16, 1900
Gray, John Alexander, Yosemite Lodge No. 99............................ November 11. 1902
Greatly, George Murray, Evergreen Lodge No. 259_.........- .. March 25, 1903
Greer, Henry Elijah, Marin Lodge No. 191................................ December 26, 1902
Grenfell, Leroy W., Colusa Lodge No. 240................................ February 19, 1903
Grieb, Henry Tobias, Crockett Lodge No. 139............................ May 21. 1902
Griesche, Gustave Adolph, Durant Lodge No. 268....................June 26, 1903
Griffen, Henry Thomas, Malta Lodge No. 661... ......................... November 5, 1902
Griffin, John, San Pedro Lodge No. 332.•.....................- ............... November 21, 1902
Groff, Charles Addison, South Gate Lodge No. 320....................July 31, 1903
Hamilton, Andr~w Jackson, Pinole Lodge No. 353......................August 11, 1903
Hansell, Calvin Emerick, Mission Lodge No. 169........................ March 11, 1903
Hanson, William, Pinole Lodge No. 353........................................ June 28, 1903
Hanns, George Washington, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346................ 0ctober 3, 1903
Harnisch, William, Porterville Lodge No. 303............................ March 30, 1903
Harris, Marshall C., King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.................. January 26, 1903
Helms, Walter Theodore, McKinley Lodge No. 347.................. March 14, 1903
Henderson, James, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.................................... January 21. 1903
Hensley, Archibald Howard, Brawley Lodge No. 402.............. February 2, 1897
Herzog, Siegfried Kramer, Doric Lodge No. 216........................Auguat 28, 1902
Higgins, Walter Herman, Claiborne Lodge No. 185.................... January 10, 1903
Hoernle, Henry John, Yount Lodge No. 12.................................... July 14, 1903
Holbrook, Carl Eugene, Ocean Park Lodge No. 369................ June 3, 1899
Holser. Raymond Frederick, Hesperian Lodge No. 264................ July 18, 1903
Hom, David Marshall. Howard Lodge No. 37............................ March 12, 1903
Hoey, Hugh Denis, Solano Lodge No. 229..........----·······--·0ctober 27, 1902
House, John Lemuel. El Centro Lodge No. 384...·-··--·······--···August 23, 1902
Hunter, Harman J., John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657..............-May, 1903
Isaacs, Edward S .. Pacific Lodge No. 136.................................... December 16, 1902
Iversen, Chester Arthur, Occidental Lodge No. 22.....·-·---·········March 23, 1903
ankins, John Arthur, Live Oak Lodge No. 61............................ Pebruary 6, 1903
anssen, Julius, Golden State Lodge No. 358...................... _ ....... March 27, 1903
ennings, Edward B., Oriental Lodge No. 144..............................September, 1902
ohnson. Thomas B.. Moneta Lodge No. 405........--·-····-······-·Novembe r 18. 1902
ohnston, Fred Lyle, Magnolia Lodge No. 242..·-···-·····-··-···-··January 7, 1903

l

50

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
NAMI! AND LODGI!

51

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
DATI! OP RAISING

Jonason, S. Walter, Santa Ana Lodge No. 24L. .......................April 1, 1903
Jones, Charles Worthingto n, Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408........ April 8, 1903
Jones, Edward Kirkland, California Lodge No. l........................ March 26, 1903
Jones, Edward Morgan, Standard Lodge No. 440........................ 0ctober 4, 1902
Jones. William Franklin, Mission Lodge No. 169........................July 15, 1903
Katnmerer, George E., Fullerton Lodge No. 339...........---········-··February 1. 1902
Kemp, John Henry, California Lodge No. l.................................. March 12, 1903
Kempkey, Augustus, Jr., Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 .................... December 10, 1901
Kenyon, Pertt, Morning Star Lodge No. 68..... ·--·------··- ·-··Aprl] 16,24,1903
1903
Kew, James erbert, Inglewood Lodge No. 42L. ....................... August
King, Herbert Riley, Buckeye Lodge No. 195................................July 11, 1902
Kitts, Herbert S .• Nevada Lodge No. 13. ....................................... June 10, 1903
Kleiser, Joseph Albert, Curtis Lodge No. 140.............................. August 15, 1903
Kline, James Joseph, California No. L. ......................................... February 21, 1902
Knott, Albert Thomas, Naval Lodge No. 87·--····-··-·- ··-··--·····Jul y 11, 1903
Koch, William L., Pacific Lodge No. 136.·-··-·····-··-·-··-··········:January 9. 1903
Lake, George Bradbury, Oriental Lodge No. 144........................February, 1903
Lamb, William Hawkins, Monrovia Lodge No. 308 .................... December 8, 1902
ruary 6, 1903
Lang, William, Live Oak Lodge No. 61......·-········-······················Feb
LaRiviere, 'Wilburn Eug•me, Calaveras Lodge No. 78................ May 8, 1902
Layton, Edward Leonard, Roseville Lodge No. 222 ...---·····--·····March 21. 1903
Lehmkulh, Charles Fredrick Christian, Pinole Lodge No. 353....August 25, 1903
Leidig, Donald Sterling, Standard Lodge No. 440•. ·-··-··········-·---June 17, 18991903
Levy, Henry, Fidelity Lod[e No. 120............................................August 22,
Levy, Mcrris H .. Fideli!Y Lodge No. 120..................... ............... June 6, 1903
Lewis, Abram Walter, Corinthian Lodge No. 9.......................... April 22, 1903
Linebaugh, William Abraham, Vitruvius Lodge No. 145............ April 11. 1902
Littlefield, Frank Peters, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30....................July 1, 1903
Livingstone, David B.. Long Beach Lodge No. 327.................... April 18, 1903
Loebenstein, David Albert, San Diego Lodge No. 35 ................ July 9, 1902
Lovejoy, George Ray, Fresno Lodge No. 247................................ May 16, 1902
Lowe, Samuel, Fidelity Lodge No. 120..........................................~anuary 29, 1903
Ludwig, Anton John, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30........................ une 30, 1903
Lyda, William 1<., Silver Gate Lodge No. 296............................ ebruary 27, 1903
Lyon, James Francis, Concord Lodge No. 117.............................. _July 7, 1903
Lyon, William Ernest, El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576............May 3, 1902
McCausland, Charles Henry, Silver Cord Lodge No. 505.......... March 23, 1903
McDonald, Rod Joseph, Estero Lodge No. UD......................... May 27, 1902
Mcintyre, Donald Neil, Oakland Lodge No. 188........................ 0ctober 2, 1903
McKinlay, Samuel Stewart, Pinole Lodge No. 353.................... September l, 1903
McKinnon, Joseph Malcolm, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21... ............. April 4, 1902
McNei!l, Robert John, Humboldt Lodge No. 79........................... .June 24, 1902
MacGregor, John Ryle, Sr., Sequoia Lodge No. 349 ....................becember l, 1902
Macomber, Benjamin, Durant Lodq_e No. 268................................ April 11, 1902
Maqee, Joseph Francis, California Lodge No. 1............................August 6, 1900
Malcom, Charles, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389............................ June 11, 1903
Maloy, James C., Salinas Lodge No. 204.................................... ~une 13, 1903
Marshall, Charles, Mission Lodge No. 169.................................... une 17, 1903
Martin, John Howard, Hesperian Lodge No. 264.............. .......... ovember 2, 1901
Martindale, Walter W .. South Gate Lodge No. 320.................... January 28, 1903
Matthiesen, John A. P., Doric Lodge No. 216................................ August 22, 1903
Means, Charles Vernon, Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458............ May 21. 1903
Meyer, Henry, Hermann Lodge No. 127........................................ Marcb 19, 1900
Meyers, Lee D .. Fullerton Lodge No. 339...................... ~--····-···May 1. 1901
12, l903
Miller, Charles A., Pacific Lodge No. 136........·-······-····-··········-June
Miller, John R., Pacific Lodge No. 136.......................................... une 19, 1903
Mills, Joseph Burtrin, Eden Lodge No. 113.............•...............- .... N'ovember 22, 1902
Mooser, Joseph N., Santa Monica Lodge No. 307.......•..............July 8, 1903

NAMI! AND LODGI!

DATI! OP RAISING

Morey, Frank H., El Dorado Lodge No. 26.........·-······--·······--····June 12 1903
Morgan, Don Dewit, Sunset Lodge No. 352---··-·-······-·--······.M ay JO, 1902
Mote, Jesse Frampton, Sequoia Lodge No. 349....•....................... November 19, 1902
Mottet, Henri, LaParfaite Union Lodge No. 17............................June 12, 1903
Munsell, James Roy, Oakland Lodge No. 188................................ Aprfl 18, 1903
Murray, John Huston, Suisun Lodge No. 55.................................. 0ctober 11. 1902
2, 1902
Neel, Melvin, Long Beach Lodge No. 327.............-------········-··-0ctober
Nelson, Jesse Walker, Rockridge Lodge No. 468..............'.......... May 28, 1903
4, 1900
Nelson, John, Porterville Lodge No. 303......·-·····-···················--·Apiil 17,
1903
Nelson, Walter Shippey, Marin Lodge No. 191............................June
Newell, yilliam Harold. California Lodge No. 1.....................-.0ctober 17, 1901
Newton, ester Smith, Howard Lodge No. 37..........- ................ ~une 6, 1903
Nixon, Joseph Robert, Durant Lodge No. 268............................ une 16, 1901
Nuckols, William B., Orange Grove Lodge No. 293.·-··········· ovember 11, 1902
Oliver, George Davidson, Truckee Lodge No. 200.................... July 20, 1903
Oliver, George Joseph, Woodbridg e Lodge No. 13L.................. October 25, 1902
Olmsted, ~~nry M~rtin, Plymouth Lodge No. 560.................... August 23, 1902
Olsen, W1ll1am Christensen, Mission Lodge No. 169.................. May 20, 1903
1903
Onyon, Fred Gage, Keith Lodge No. 187.....·-······-··············-····-March 30,
Owens, Ivor D., Point Lodge No. 503.................................- .........Jauuary 22, 1903
Palmer, Edwin Obadish, Hollywood Lodge No, 355..................~uly 31, 1903
Paris, Oliver Otis, Needles Lodge No. 326.................................... une 2, 1903
Patterson, George R., Palestine Lodge No. 351.. ........................ ecember 29, 1902
Pattison, Frederick Charles, Occidental Lodge No. 22................ March 16, 1903
Pauson, Jacob W., Fldeliz Lodge No. 120............_ .....................July 30, 1903
Peabody, Robert Austin, incoln Lodge No. 470..........................March 20, 1903
Pearl, Frederick Albert, Concord Lodge No. 117........................March 24, 1903
Pease, Raymond Burnette, Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408............ Pebruary 5, 1903
Peers, Robert Alway, Illinoistown Lodge No. 51.._ ................... May 8, 1903
Penrod, William Clarke, Evergreen Lodge No. 259....................Aprfl 20, 1903
Pe:rY• Andrew John, Oakland Lodge No. 188.............................. January 31. 1903
Phillips, George Andrew, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 ................January 24, 1901
Phillips, Julius Arthur, Lincoln Lodge No. 470.............................. December 4, 1900
Phipps, John Anthony, Henry Clay Lodge No. 95........................ November 13, 1902
Phoenix, Frederick James, Midway Lodge No. 426.................... November 29, 1900
Plato, George J.. Pacific Lodge No. 136.·-····-···· ··········-······-··-···0ctober ti, 1902
Plumb, Max Alaric, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410....... _............. Aprfl 19, 1902
Pope, Samuel E., Concord Lodge No. 117....................................Auguat 25, 1903
Porcella, Stephen, Marin Lodge No. 191...................................- .. Novembtr 28, 1902
Porter, Charles George, Fullerton Lodge No. 339........................July 12, 1902
Pottenger, Joseph Elbert, Sojourner Lodge No. 607.................... June 11, 1900
Poulsen, Albert Martin, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410................!0ctober 24, 1902
Prescott, Warren A., Sun Garden Lodge No. 530....................... June 25, 1902
Prior, John Stanley, Mission Lodge No. 169..................... ...........April 15, 1903
Raftery, Michael Roy, Mizpah Lodge No. 378..............................~ly 30, 1903
Rapheld, Maurice L., Fidelity Lodge No. 120.............................. uly 16, 1903
Raze, Arthur Eldri<!pe, Southern California Lodge No. 278...... ovember 26, 1902
Rea, Francis Leo, raver LodjJe No. 294.................................... November 29, 1902
Reinle, George Gottlieb, Live Oak Lodge No. 61........................ June 26, 1903
Rhoads, William D .• Covelo Lodge No. 231................................ November 2, 1902
Richardson, Warren Vincent, Truckee Lodge No. 200................ Aprfl 28, 1902
Richmond. Edmund Nutting, San Jose Lodge No. 10................ June 29, 1903
Rlcksecker, Ovid Hall, Roseville Lodge No. 222..........................1903
Rieger, William, Durant Lodge No. 268 ........................................ January 30, 1903
Rixon, Albert William, Burlingame Lodge No. 400.................... July 20, 1903
Robinson, William Tate, Fullerton Lodge No. 339 ...................... 0ctober 14, 1902
Robitscher, Earl M., Fidelity Lodge No. 120................................January 22, 1903

52

NAME AND LODGE

53

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OP RAISING

Rose, Burton James, Durant Lodge No. · 268.·-··········-················May 29, 1903
Ross, Leonard Jackson, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19....................July 9, 1903
Rueger, Godfrey, Benicia Lodge No. 5........................................March 29, 1902
Rutter, Albertus Jessie, East Gate Lodge No. 290.................._.... Decembn- 22, 1902
Sackman. John William, Santa Ana Lodg~ No. 241.................. 0ctober 3, 1902
Saeltzer, Oudley Victor, Reading Lodge No. 254 ........................March 18, 1903
Salzman, George E., Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297............................ April 2, 1903
Samter, Samuel M., Fidelity Lodge No. 120..................................April 30, 1903
Samuels, Albert S., Doric Lodge No. 216...................................... May 23, 1903
Samuels, Henry Charles, Ferndale Lodge No. 193.......,.............. December 20, 1902
Samuels, Herbert Joshua, Oakland Lodge No. 188...................... August 17, 1902
Santiefo, Edmund R .. Volcano Lodge No. 56................................ Sesember 17, 1903
7, 1903
Scaronf, Leo Pio, Hesperian Lodge No. 26-f·-······-··········-···-···F
Schaefer, Rudolph, Vacaville Lodge No. 134.............................. March 5, 1903
Scheela, Frederick W., Riverbank Lodge No. 459........................ September 15, 1903
Scheidecker, Albert Frederick, Lafayette Lod11e No. 126............April 11, 1903
Scheppler, Lows William, Mission Lodge No. 169...................... April 18, 1903
Schmal%, Frederick, South Gate Lodge No. 320...- ....................... M;trch 17, 1900
Schmalzlen, William, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 4-t ................- .. March 25, 1903
Schott, Walter Edgar, Durant Lodge No. 268.............................. June 13, 1902
Schroth, Charles Albert, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44 ................ June 17, 1903
Schwart%, Charles August, Tehama Lodge No. 3........................ August 17, 1903
Scott, Edward Slaughter, Mendocino Lodge No. 179.................. December 16, 1902
Seaver, Fred Eugene, Sunset Lodge No. 352................................ September 12, 1902
Secara, Joseph, Madera Lodge No. 280.......................................... January 24, 1903
Shackelton, James, Long Beach Lodge No. 327 ............................ Januarh 14, 1902
Shafer, William Henry, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215.................... Decem er 9, 1902
Shaffer, Charles R., Yosemite Lodge No. 99................................ September 9, 1902
Shaug, Charles J., San Fernando Lodge No. 343........................June 12, 1902
Shaw, Wiiiiam aay, Long Beach Lodge No. 327 ........................ Septembei: 3, 1903
Shipley, William Chapman, Curtis Lodge No. 140......................June 6, 1903
Slingsby. Percy Graham, LaFayette Lodge No. 126.................... 0ctober 6, 1902
Smale. Joseph Leslle, Southern California Lodge No. 278.......... February 4, 1903
Smedley, Gustavus Howard, Tujunga Lodge No. 592.............. May 10, 1900
Smith, Charles C .. Fullerton Lodge No. 339...- ...........................June 1, 1901
Smith, Edward L., Silver Cord LOdge No. 505..............._...........December 23, 1902
Smith, Irving Raynor, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202..·-············--···February 24, 1903
Smith, Joseph Pettitt, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241..--······-···········-September 4, 1902
Smith, Sumner Stewart, Oakland Lodge No. 188........................ March 28, 1903
Smith, Victor Raymond, Fresno Lodge No. 247•......................... September 19, 1902
Snow, Arthur Pliny, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336............................ April 25, 1903
Snyder, Chas. Lafayette, Fraternity Lodge No. 399....................August 25, 1902
Snyder, William Fred, Durant Lodge No. 268......·-······-··-······-Iune 22, 1903
Sorenson, Samuel, Northern Light Lodge No. 190..........._......... April 11, 1903
Speckter, Richard, Hermann Lodge No. 127................................ February 13, 1899
Spence, John Daniel, East Gate Lodge No. 290.......................... No\l'ember 7, 1902
Starr, Roy Dubois, Enterprise Lodge No. 70.-............................. Decembn- 4, 1902
Stephens, Roscoe W., Eagle Rock Lodge No. -t22.............·-···-··.April 11, 1903
Stewart, Thomas, San Fernando Lodge No. 343......•..................... January 20, 1903
Stokes, Frederick R., Oriental Lodge No. 14-t..............................'November, 1902
Sturgeon, Fred, Dimond Lodge No. 603...- ..•..........•.....................December 31, 1900
Sturken, Fabian Henry, George Washington Lodge No. 525.... 0ctober 29, 1902
Swift, Charles Henry, East San Diego Lodge No. 561................July 13, _1903
Taber, George Henry, Turlock Lodge No. 395.......•....... _........... May 19, 1903
Taylor, John Hartley, Eagle Rock Lodge No. -t22........................July 12, 1898
Thayer, Wade Warren, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21..•..·--··········-···0ctober 3, 1902
Theile, Ernest A., Union Lodge No. 58..........·-··············-······-·····0cto btt 29, 1902
Thibeault, Elmer E., Long Beach Lodge No. 327.·-···············-·····June 8, 1903
Thomas, Arthur Frederick, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356...- ..•....May 27, 1903

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Thomas John, Orland Lodge No. 265..................................•........ December 19, 1902
Thomas, Wiiiiam, Madison Lodge No, 23...........................- ....... A_pril 29, 1903
Thorburn, William James, Acorn Lodge No. 494..·-··-···············November 24, 1902
Titus. Charles Israel, Provident Lodge No. 609.._: ..................... November 2, 1900
Tooker, Clinton E., Madera Lodge No. 280.....·-··-··········-··-····November 8, 1902
Tripp, Don Everett, Naval Lodge No. 87........,.........•.................0ctober 29, 1902
Tucker, Arthur Henry, Reading Lodge No. 254.......................... April 25, 1903
Tulloch, David Whitelaw, Summit Lodge No. 112....·-········-···March 7, 1903
Tully, George Franklin, Liberty Lodge No. 299·-········-······-·······December 13, 1902
Turk, John, Long Beach No. 327.........·-················-··········-··········December 22, 1902
Turner, Charles Crosby, Vista Lodge No. 687..................·-··-···August 23, 1899
Tuttle, Burt Hamilton, San Pedro Lodge No. 332.·-··-·······--····March 17, 1902
Tway, Ephriam Foster, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30..................•. January 27, 1903
Tyson, Mitchell, Occidental Lodge No. 22 .................................... April 11, 1903
Van Bebber, Park Anderson, Petaluma LodJJe No. 180.............. 0ctober 30, 1902
Van Norman, Harvey Arthur, South Gate Lodge No. 320........January 31. 1902
Vance, Carl Nye, Utopia Lodge No. 537........................................ November 28, 1902
Vane, Walter Feary, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225-········-······-·······Feh.!uary 24, 1903
Van Loan, Elmn-, Lassen Lodge No. H9...·-·········-·-··················1897
Venhulzen, John, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21....................................January 31. 1903
Vincent, John Andrew, McKinley Lodge No. 347....•.............·-··· une 24, 1903
Virgil, Alexander Carl, Santa Cruz, Lodge J'l'o. 38.......·-········-··April 15, 1903
Walbey, Bertie Robert Cecil, California Lodge No. L .............. November 6, 1902
Walker, J. Russel, San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214............- .. March 7, 1903
Walker, Shirley Cyrus, California Lodge No. 1...•...•....•......•...•.. July 31, 1902
Waltower, Charles Stanley, The Gardens Lodge No. 621..........December 23, 1902
Watson, Albert Henry, Elk Grove Lodge No. 173......- ..............June 6, 1903
Weddington, Frederick Rutledge, North Hollywood
Lodge No. 542..............July 31, 1903
Wehser, Will Emil, California Lodge No. 1............................•..... September 8, 1902
West, Frank Alfred, Oakland Lodge No. 188......:....................... 0ctober 13, 1902
White, Charles Browne, Truckee Lodge No. 200......._:-.............. April 30, 1903
White, Genius, South Gate Lodge No. 320.................................. Augu.4t 8, 1903
White, Robert Justus, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241... ..................... April 23, 1903
Wilder, Edwin Milton, Union Lodge No. 58................................ March 18, 1903
Wlley, Fred D., Long Beach Lodge No. 327 ········-·········-··--Augu at 27, 1902
Wilhelm, John Harry, Mission Lodge No. 169......·-·--··--·····Auguat 30, 1902
Wilkes, William Ernest, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244...............- ....... January 16, 1902
Willard, Willls Fred, Tehama Lodge No. 3................................December 15, 1902
Williams, Awttin Daniel, Sacramento Lodge No. -tO.......- ...........June 26, 1903
Williams, Ernest Clement, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244·-····-·-······-'November 13, 1902
Williams, John Robert, Morning Star Lodg~ No. 68.·-··········-···luly 23, 1903
Wilson, John Mather, San Benito Lodge No. 211......- ............... .April 9, 1903
Wintter, William J., Fullerton Lodge No. 339.......·-·····-············-July 13, 1901
Wltshreck, Edward B., Meridian Lodge No. 667..............- ........April 19, 1902
Woltn-s, Edward, Mad.e ra Lodge No. 280....................................January 3, 1903
Zschokke, Theodore Christian, Perris Lodge No. 411.-··-·····--February 21. 1903

Respectfully submitted,

Ref erred to the Committee on Segregation.

54

. PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The untimely passing of our late Grand Lecturer, Walter von
Konsky, last November, left your Ritual Committee as the youngest
in point of service on the committee since the institution of the present
system of ritual instruction in 1934.
It is only fair to say, however, that the Assistant Gra?d Lecturers
by their efforts and zeal have maintained a record of w~ich they can
justly be proud. They have given me the utmost cooperation and help,
as have the Inspectors throughout the jurisdiction.
Reports have been received from all the Inspectors, and with greater
promptness than ever before. These reports show that o~r lodges,
with a few exceptions, are in good condition, are busy with degree
work, and that their officers are proficient and are seriously concerned
with the work of Masonry.
It was my privilege to attend all of the Division Conferences of
Inspectors conducted by the Assistant Grand Lecturers, as follows:
Divisions 1 and 2, held at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 19.-21, 1953,
conducted by Worshipful Clare B. Campbell and Worshipful Ralph
M. Foote.
Division 3, held at Guerneville, May 1-3, 1953, conducted by Worshipful Arthur J. Kahn.
Division 4, held at Yosemite Valley, June 5-7, 1953, conducted by
Worshipful Raymond G. Taylor.
Division 5, held at Santa Barbara, April 24-26, 1953, conducted
by Worshipful Guy B. Mize.
Division 6, held at Del Mar, March 20-22, 1953, conducted by
Worshipful Augustus H. Allen.
At each of these conferences, the work of the three degrees was
performed by the Inspectors of the division, and the Inspectors and
Assistant Grand Lecturers are to be complimented on the excellent
work they are doing. The Grand Master was present at each of these
conferences, as was the Grand Secretary, and their .talks to the Inspectors
were of great interest. We were pleased to have m attendance at so?1e
of these meetings the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens. Out of a possible 145 Inspectors. only 8 were absent
from the conferences this year. Divisions 1 and 6 had perfect attendance records.
At four of these conferences the Ritual Committee held meeting.s
to consider various matters relating to uniformity of the work. In addition, a special meeting of the Ritual Committee was held in San Francisco on December 6 and 7. 1952, with all of the memb~rs of the
Committee present. The work of the three degrees was reviewed and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

55

performed, and it is probably the first Ritual Committee in our history
to have the Grand Master acting as a candidate.
During the past year, the Monitor has been reprinted to correct
certain errors, and in particular to make corrections in the ceremony
of reception of Grand Lodge officers, which were made necessary by
changes in our law.
The Ritual Committee has received numerous proposals for changes
in the ritual. We have refused to endorse any of them, because we
feel that our present ritual needs no such improvements: and as custodians of the work it is our duty to preserve it as it was given to us;
and that the only changes which may be authorized by Grand Lodge,
under section 248 of the Ordinances, are "for the purpose of having it
remain as it was handed down from time immemorial."
From the reports of the Inspectors, it appears that in about twelve
districts the Inspectors have not made official visits in the manner prescribed by our Constitution. Section 53 provides that the Inspector
on his official visits shall be received with Grand Honors. In 1941 the
Grand Lecturer expressed the opinion that the reception of the Inspector
with Grand Honors is not optional. On the assumption that this requirement has been approved by Grand Lodge, it will be necessary for the
Inspectors to comply with it in all cases.
I have been greatly impressed with the work done by our Inspectors,
and by the countless hours they are devoting to Masonry. From the
reports submitted, I have estimated that in the course of their duties
including att~ndance at the Grand Lodge school of instruction, th~
Inspectors of this jurisdiction annually travel an aggregate of more
than 180,000 miles. This is in addition to some 40,000 miles traveled
by m~mbers of the Ritual Committee.
At the Grand Master's direction I made a two weeks' trip by air
to the Hawaiian Islands, conducting schools of instruction at Honolulu _
and in the lodges on the islands of Kauai, Maui and Hawaii. My findings
as to the situation concerning ritualistic instruction in the Islands have
been reported at length to the Grand Master. Briefly. it was my conclusion that we must provide additional instruction in order to maintain
the same uniformity and standard of ritual in the Islands as on the
mainland. and provide a closer contact between the Ritual Committee
and the Inspectors there. I found that the Inspector in Honolulu, Brother
Potts. was overloaded with administrative matters. The Grand Master
has in part corrected this situation by creating a new lnspectoral District.
numbered 386, to be composed of Kauai Lodge. on the Island of Kauai,
formerly in the 382nd District, and of Honolulu and Schofield Lodges,
formerly in the 384th District, with Robert Edgar presently Junior
Grand Steward, as the Inspector.
I must also state in all truthfulness that the reports as to the hospi.-

56

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

tality of our brethren in the Hawaiian Islands have not been exaggerated.
In closing, may I express my sincere appreciation to the Grand
Master for his helpful suggestions throughout the year, and also my
thanks to our Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary for the
many favors accorded me by the Grand Lodge Office.
Respectfully submitted,
ELBERT

w. DAVIS.

Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

57

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER
ARTHUR M. WARREN, Grand Master

Once more we have assembled in Annual Communication to discuss
our problems and to review the p;ogress of Masonry in this great Jurisdiction. It seems incredible that one year has passed since we last met.
Time moves rapidly in this busy age, much faster than we realize. Since
last October it has been my honor · and privilege to preside over the
Craft in California, and I now present my final report. Whether my
stewardship has been properly discharged will be determined by you,
my brethren. As for me, I have enjoyed the greatest experience of my
life. The opportunity to travel throughout this great empire, to meet and
fraternize with the brethren, and to work with the leaders of our fra.
ternity has given me an education which could not be acquired in the
finest of universities. The fraternal affection displayed and the willing
assistance offered by the brethren will be remembered by me always and
I will be ever grateful for the privilege which has been accorded me.
During the past year I have been able to meet the brethren in practically every district in the Jurisdiction. This has been accomplished by
group district meetings, breakfasts, and other types of gatherings. •
For the record I have had 139 official meetings with a combined
attendance of over 53,000. In traveling about I have covered 42,800
miles: 27,000 by air, 15,000 by car and 800 by rail.

NECROLOGY
V. W. WALTER H. E. VoN KoNsKY

One of the first official acts of my year was the sad duty of conducting the funeral services of my dear friend and brother V. W. Walter
H. E. Von Kansky, Grand Lecturer. We had been friends for over
twenty years and our family ties were very close. Our working together
in Masonry side by side for all of those years made his passing one of
deep sadness. The sei;vices were conducted by Grand Lodge on November 5, 1952. To fill the vacancy made by his demise, I appointed W.
Elbert W. Davis, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 3. Bill, as he is
affectionately called, was also a close friend and confidant of Walter,
and I am certain that there will be no deviation from the high standards
set by our late brother Walter Von Konsky.
To fill the vacancy thus created in Division 3, W. Arthur J. Kahn
was advanced from Inspector of District 344 to Assistant Grand Lecturer.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

58
M.

w. WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY

On Februar y 1, 1953 our Grand Lodge again suffered a severe loss.
M. W. William Rhodes Hervey , P. G. M., Chairm an of our Committee
on Policy and Genera l Purpose s, was called to the Celestial Lodge. His
long years of faithful service to the Craft will make him one of Masonr y's
immortals. His funeral services were conduc ted by the Grand Lodge on
Februa ry 4, 1953 in the Scottish Rite Cathed ral in Los Angeles. To fill
the vacancy as Chairm an of the importa nt Policy and Genera l Purpose s
Committee, I appoint ed M . W. Will H. Fischer, who served with
Rhodes for many years.

w. LEONARD GROSS
While in Washin gton, attendin g the Grand Masters ' Conference,
word reached me of the death of Leonard Gross, former Inspector, who
at the time of passing was serving as Vice-Pr esident of the Board of
Trustee s of our Masoni c Homes. All who worked with Leonard will
remember him as a kindly, quiet, hard working Mason who was devoted
to the Homes, particul arly our Home for Childre n at Covina. We will
miss him and his memory will be kept green by our remembrance of his
fine works. To fill the vacancy on the Board of Trustee s, I have appoint ·ed W. Leo E. Anders on, Inspect or of District 528, to succeed him.

w. ALVINE. MELIM
On April 11, 1953, I received word of the death of W. Alvin E.
Melim, Junior Grand Steward . Al, as he was familiarly known, was an
outstan ding member of Honolu lu Lodge No. 409. He served as the
Secreta ry of the Honolu lu Board of Relief as well as the Masoni c Temple
Association of that city. It is said that he was active in every worthw hile
endeavo r in Honolu lu.
His loss will be keenly felt by everyon e in Hawaii, and our sincere
sympat hy goes to his wife, Evelyn, whom we visited during our official
visit to the Islands.
To fill the vacancy , I appoint ed W. Robert Edgar, a Past Master
of Honolu lu Lodge No. 409, and he was installe d at the joint reception
of the Honolulu lodges on May 20. His appoint ment received the
hearty approva l of the brethren of that community.
M.

w. }AMES THOMAS FRASER

Death again reduced the roster of our Past Grand Masters . M. W.
James Thomas Fraser passed away on Friday, June 26, 1953, and his
funeral was conduc ted by Humbo ldt Lodge No. 79 on June 29, 1953.
Because of a number of importa nt engagem ents elsewhere, I was unable
to attend the services, and M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson , Past Grand Master
and Grand Secreta ry, officially represe nted the Grand Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA
M.

59

w. ROBERT B. GAYLORD

The third of our Past Grand Masters went to his reward this year
when M. W. Robert B. Gaylord entered into rest on August 4, 1953.
Our distinguished Brother was one of Califor nia's outstan ding Masons ,
having served the Craft in a great number of capacities during his long
active life. His work in the York Rite Bodies of Masonr y carried him
to the highest office in the gift of that great organiz ation
At his request, his funeral services were conduct ed by Oaklan d
Lodge No. 188 on August 6, 1953. I attende d in the company of a
number of Grand Lodge Officers and Past Grand Masters .
M .

w. ARTHUR w. BROUILLET

The hand of fate again reached into the ranks of our Past Grand
Masters . On Septem ber 18, 1953, Past Grand Master Arthur W.
Brouillet died sudden ly from a heart attack after making a very fine
recovery from a similar condition early this year.
He will long be remembered as a champion of the oppress ed, and he
worked unceasi ngly for good governm ent and free public educati on
through out his full and active life.
At his request Rev. John A. Collins, a member of Excelsior Lodge
No. 166, conduc ted private services which were attende d by Arthur' s
family and a few intimate friends.
M.

w. WILL H. FISCHER

The final blow of the current Grand Lodge year fell when our beloved Will H. Fischer was called to his reward on Sunday , Octobe r 4th,
1953, after a sht>rt illness occasioned by a heart condition.
Possess ed of sparklin g wit and a keen mind, his service on the Policy
and Genera l Purpose s Committee was of immeasurable benefit to the
Grand Lodge. He will be sorely missed by all who had the privilege of
working with him.
His funeral services were conduct ed by Wilshir e Lodge No. 445 on
Octobe r 7th, 1953, and were attende d by a host of his friends.
Each of these distingu ished brother s will be given appropr iate eulogies at our Memorial Service on Wedne sday.
LoDGES CONSTI TUTED

The following Lodges , which received Charter s at the 1952 Communication, were constitu ted in due and ancient form, as follows:
Novem ber 1, 1952, Belmont Shore Lodge No. 716, Long Beach.
November 12, 1952, Norther n Californ ia Research Lodge, San
Francisco.
Novem ber 20, 1952, Souther n Californ ia Research Lodge, Hollywood.
Novem ber 22, 1952, Wayfa rer Lodge No. 717, Whittie r
Reports indicate that the Lodges are prosper ous and are enjoyin g

61

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

good progress. The research lodges are now fully organized, are
actively engaged in their programs, and in response to my request have
transmitted reports to me.
Southern California Research Lodge reports:
Since the date of the institution of the Lodge on May 20, 1952,
we have held regular quarterly business meetings. No concerted attempt
has been made to recruit new members and the membership by the time
of the next annual Communication will be approximately thirty-five
members.
The interest of the members has seemed to center largely on panel
discussions and the Lodge has been invited to visit other Lodges or
groups of Lodges and present such panel discussions. We have he~d
ten such meetings, in some cases we have been the guests of · certam
Lodges, in other cases we have opened Lodges ourselves being sponsored by groups of Masons such as Officers Associations.

liaison members between Research Lodge and study groups as may be
organized in their own Lodges.
Northern California Research Lodge reports:
We were constituted on November 12, 1952, and started with 50
members. Since then we have added 21 affiliations and lost one for a
net of 70 members at this time.
While the majority of our members are in the Bay Area, we have
members in Bakersfield, Twain Harte, Nevada City, Sacramento,
Campbell, San Jose, Redding and Weaverville. Also Aptos, Martinez,
and Stockton.
·
We have held 3 stated meetings and attendance is above the usual
percentage.
We have held 5 informal meetings at which the subjects for essays
and papers are discussed and those which are ready are read and commented on.
We have conducted one program for a District meeting, one for
a Lodge, and have sent individual speakers to 7 meetings.
We have received inquiries and invitations for future District and
Lodge meetings for after the vacation month.
This year has been on a course toward gathering material. building
a library as it were, so we have not solicited invitations. Those that
have come were all from the Lodges directly. Our plan has been to
gather material so we would be prepared in future to respond to any
calls that may be received.
·
Following is a list of the essays and papers which we have and
those now being• worked on. A perusal of the subjects will show that
the larger part of them are concerned with factual material as distinguished from interpretation. We consider that for the present we
should avoid discussion of the meaning of our work or parts of it so
as to avoid impinging on the controversial.

60

The subjects of the panel discussions were as follows:
Symbolism-six times
Historical Background of Masonry-three times
Masonic Charity--one time.
It is estimated that we have presented these panels to an aggregate
attendance of thirty-five hundred to four thousand Masons. In addition
to these activities individual members of the Lodge have been invited
to address various Lodge meetings or participate in other panel discussions. There is no complete record of such appearances.
We do not feel that the purpose of the Lodge is fulfilled entirely
by the presentation of panel discussions and therefore the me~b.ers
have been organized into study sections for the purpose of writmg
articles or doing organized research along the lines indicated. The
subjects of the panels are:
1. Symbolism
2. Masonic Law and Customs
3. ' History
4. Public Affairs
5. A review section which would receive Masonic articles and
publications and would recommend these for reading and
study.
These sections have been organized only recently and while very
little progress has been made it must be realized that this is a long range
program and it may be a long time before any real progress is made.
It should be made clear that the members of Research Lodge welcome
new members. We believe that more constructive work can be accomplished with a larger membership and those Masons who are interested
in research and study should be encouraged by the Masters of the
Lodges to affiliate with Research Lodge. In this way they could become

Essays and Papers on the following subjects are on file:
The Ashlar
two-on the Sts. John
More about "in Six Days"
The Cubit
The Cabletow
two--on the 47th Problem
The Homes
Corn, Wine & Oil
Music
The Fight for Freedom
The Constitution
The Unseen Realities
The Apprentice
Four Leading Research
The Fellowcraft
Lodges
The Master
The Recitations
These are in preparation:
The Boards of Relief
Information. about Grand Lodge
Job's Lament
The Clubhouses
The Liberal Arts
DeMolay

62

Comment:
From the interest and enthusiasm shown thus far, I am persuaded
that the Research Lodges will prove worthy of their i:esponsibility. and
will ultimately fill a most important niche in our educational program.
In reviewing the legislation creating Research Lodges, an oversight
has been discovered. The regulations exempt them from the sections
of the law relating to applications for dispensations and charters. Likewise, their officers are exempt from the requirement of obtaining certificates of ritualistic proficiency, etc. Research Lodges are not required
to pay per capita taxes and by legislation have no responsibility for
the relief of its members or dependents.
In view of the latter, it is apparent that some consideration should
be given to our law relative to minimum dues as applied to them. Because
of the limited financial needs of Research Lodges, they have no reason
for accumulating large reserves.
I. therefore, recommend that section 150 (a) be amended by adding
the following:
17. Research Lodges shall be exempt from the minimum annual dues
requirement imposed by Section 251.

63

GRAND tODGE OP CAUl'IORNtA

PROCEEDINGS OP TH!

pos~:d

~he

ov~~ht~ec~o~~d~o

H.
a tiled Lodge in the gymnasium of the A 1
·parbd
a:fis
ceremony. Tilers were
cipate in
UI mg an
every available seat was used The .
doubCt that this event will
live long in the memory of the .Mas re isf nCoontra
osta Co t N d
ons o
un y. ee 1ess to say'. it was most inspiring to see eleven h d
un red and forty men
present to JOin in Masonic fraternization.
CENTENNIALS

bra~~::s been my privilege to attend . the following Centennial CeleNovember
b 8,5 1952, Gold Hill Lodge No · 32 . L'mco1n;
N
.
ovem er 1 ' 1952, Golden Gate Lodge No 30 S F
May 2, 1953, Ophir Lodge No. 33, Murphy~· . an ranasco;
July 11, 1953, Howard Lodge No 37 Yrek . '
July 14, 1953, Santa Cruz Lodge No.' 38, s:~ta Cruz·
•
September 25, 1953, Sacramento Lodge No · •AO• S acramento.
.
d
. ~ach of these meetings was inspirin and was
with the
digmty and importance which should at~end all suechoncelucbted.
e rations.
DEDICATIONS

NEW LoDGES INSTITUTED

Masonry is advancing with the growth of population in California,
and it is natural to assume that new settlements will seek to obtain
lodges to satisfy the urge to round out their community life. Masonic
Lodges, as well as Churches and Public Schools, have become a part
and parcel of the American scene and I am happy to state that we are
keeping pace with this trend.
Lodges have been instituted as follows:
December 16. 1952. Geo. E . Tutt Lodge, U.D .• Campbell:
January 16, 1953, Acalanes Lodge. U.D .• Lafayette:
January 16, 1953, San Ramon Valley Lodge, U.D .. Danville:
January 16, 1953, Saint John's Lodge, U.D .• Walnut Creek;
March 16, 1953, Yucaipa Lodge, U.D .• Yucaipa:
June 12. 1953, Verdugo Hills Lodge, U.D., Glendale:
June 20, 1953. Lakewood Lodge, U.D .• Long Beach:
August 7, 1953, Centennial Lodge, U.D .• Compton;
September 4, 1953, Polaris Lodge, U.D., Sacramento;
September 14, 1953, Two Rivers Lodge, U.D., Bell.
The joint institution ceremony on January 16, 1953 was an outstanding event in California Masonry. It is the first time in my memory
that more than one lodge was instituted at the same meeting. The
unusual feature , however, was the novel method of conducting that
' convocation. Eleven hundred and forty Master Masons assembled in

The following new Temples were dedicated according to ancient
Masonic form :
January 31, 1953, Bell Masonic Hall Bell·
~arch 7, 1~53, Snow Mountain Lod~e H~ll. Stonyford:
arch 14, 1953, West Los Angeles Masonic Hall W t Lo
s
• es
Angeles.

ownE~~:~! th~~ee bsutrildint gs was cod~s~ucted by the brethren with their
1 . d
uc ures are istmct and
.
and
developments in Masonic
:rody

th~~atest

~:~::1~!st:~~s~:e~

~~~::1~

Hallu;r:~:ec:~re e¥~:

~ha~ ~en c:n aJ~

they reflect
:::
for
.. In
passing. a tribute should be paid the
. ge Fmancmg.
headed by Chairman Edward J Blickfeldt Th· C
~s omm1ttee has advised
.
and inspired the brethren with th .
eir own gemus and the result of th
k . .
•
wor is m no small way due to their helpful and considerat:

t~

c~:J.~:: ::Y:~mg ~Orce

!~~c~.

1 t ~ e also ~ar~cipated in an unusual dedication ceremony At th
e
o~mumcabon of Grand Lodge, the brethren of Benict
as

Co~b1;~. S~~~~B!1&:;.01~~':',:Ofu':::!d::. ~~:•.di ~~~bs.;a~~~1
pec1a
.
ted
mm1ttee on Ritual wa
the ritual has not yet be::~~~:nte;of::~~~et~ cer~mony. Obviously,
brethren of Benicia, mindful of our Masoni:

~~~~ati~:~:e~~~~e~~~~

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

nd
School System, req ues ted the Gra
adv anc e of inte rest in the Public
ool
Sch
tary
ication of Mills Ele men
Ma ster to par tici pate in the Ded
and on Jan uar y 24. 1953, joined
rse.
cou
at Benicia. We accepted, of
event
ity in the ceremony. It was an
wit h the citizens of tha t commun
.
ated
reci
app
ply
dee
icip atio n was
of gre at importance and our part

W d
0ct obe r 19, 1952, Ma ster s and
ar ens. Assn., San Fra nci sco -ent.
pres
700
,
of Reli f Lo A
t
sen
pre
Ma rch 15, 1953, Boa rdof
0
200
lesnge
s
•
Reli e
Apr il 12, 1953 Boa rd
li:/r!:;~e:~~OO pre sen t.
Re
of
Apr il 19, 1953.' Boa rd
Aspresent.
d
and
sn., BerkeleyJun e 7, 1953, Eas t Bay Mast~s
ar ens
900 pre sen t.
San Diego Cou n ty Offt.c~s Assn., Fla g Day ObJun e 14, 1953, ent.
pres
500
ser van ceJun e 21, 1953, Anc h or Lod ge N 0 • 273• Compton, St. Joh n's Da y325 present.
.
•A
Aug ust 9, 1953 OfH
Dis tric t 504, Uni ted Sta tes
~n
~~~
Co~
Disciplinary Barracks,
W:presen!·
September 13, 1953, Ma ster s' and
ard ens Association, Fre sno -ent.
pres
500
k
In additio~ to thes e meetin gs ' I spo eat the following luncheons and
barbecues:
Ma so C
Ma rch 28, 1953, Lun che on- Chi na
ns . luh --S an Francisco.
s'
Aug ust 8, 1953, Bar bec ue- Off icer Association, Ven tura and San ta
Bar bar a Cou ntie s-F illm ore .
e Tah o M , .
September 6, 1953, Lun che on- Lak
tric t 36; -Pa slonic Clu b-B ijou .
September 19, 1953, Bar bec ue- Dis
eas anto n.
Septemb 23 1953
ley Officers As snVal
ra
Cla
ta
San
uebec
• Bar
Wil low Glen~ •

64

COR NER STO NES

,
bre thre n of Blythe Lodge No. 473
Complying wit h the req ues t of the
ge,
Lod
the
Bly
of
bers
mem
sted by the
several Gra nd Lodge Officers. assi
ston e of the Firs t ·Ba ptis t Chu rch
ner
cor
the
ng
layi
in
joined wit h me
and
The meeting was well publicized
of tha t city on Jan uar y 3, 1953.
de~
was
on
rno
community. The afte
atte nde d by the citizens of tha t
r
ove
ast
adc
bro
was
the ceremony
dar ed a holiday by the may or and
een
betw
ship
tion
rela
the
certain tha t
the local rad io station. We feel
by
ity was cemented more stro ngl y
ern
frat
the
and
our church friends
the ties of frat ern al brotherhood.
nd Lodge to lay the cornerstone
On Ma y 30, we aga in convened Gra
the
No. 313. Thi s Lodge was one of
of the Hal l of Teh ach api Lodge
2.
195
22,
July
of
ake
from the eart hqu
Lodges tha t suffered so severely
ce
stan
assi
s
erou
gen
with
. coupled
Unt irin g and une ndi ng industry
lted in the
~Masons as well, has resu
non
from
and
ge,
from Gra nd Lod
~
cred it and an orn ame nt to tha t com
erection of a building which is a
ful
cess
suc
the
thre n of Teh ach api in
munity. We rejoice wit h our bre
eavor.
end
hile
completion of this wor thw
ortu nity to demonstrate our gre at
opp
Dur ing June, we had a further
ge
the 13t h of tha t month, Gra nd Lod
inte rest in Public Education. On
ch
Bea
g
Lon
·
the
of
the cor ner ston e
assembled in Long Beach to lay
d
uire
acq
e
hav
we
and
,
orable one
Sta te College. The day was a mem
.
city
fine
t
tha
of
ens
citiz
the goo d
the gra titu de and hig h reg ard of
the
vened on September 19th to lay
con
in
Gra nd Lod ge was aga
co.
ncis
Fra
San
th
Sou
in
ple
son ic Tem
cornerstone of Fra ncis Dra ke Ma
rs
yea
eral
sev
for
ject
pro
the
on
ked
The bre thre n of this Lodge hav e wor
e.
hom
finally star ted on their new
and we are hap py tha t they have
flicting dates, I req ues ted R. W.
Because of a hea vy schedule and con , to convene Gra nd Lod ge in
Ma ster
Fra nk Har wel l, Jr., Dep uty Gra nd
to lay the cornerstone of the new
5th
Hun ting ton Beach on September
for
ge. I exp ress my than ks to him
Tem ple of Hun ting ton Beach Lod
the
ing
dur
him
by
n
which was give
this and oth er helpful assistance
entire year.
BRE AKF AST S

asts wer e held and ' afforded the
The following Masonic Bre akf
enable
meet the bre thre n and , of course,
'Gr and Ma ster an opp ortu nity to
erage of the jurisdiction.
him to make a more complete cov

65

w

c::;

INSP ECT ORS

n a art f h
hav e
As one who has long bee
.Z T o. t e Insp ecto rs' Cor ps, I
wor
r
thei
in
rest
inte
take n a keen
ice
serv
oted
r~cia~~r ~ong hours of dev
the
to our frat ern ity are gre atly app
had
I
all.
S . ' am sure, by
plea sure of atte ndi ng all of the '
dnn~ onferences held und er the
ta~
is
direction of the various Ass
ecturers. By my direction,
the G~and Sec reta ry atte nde d andelp .
to them, in his fine styJe
ted
a pro gra m of coordination wt'th r ation to Ho mes. problems and new•
Lod ge d evelopments. To fill the vac a . . their ran ks cau sed by
~oes in
resignation or death, the followi ng app omt men ts hav e been mad e
.
K
Ha
•
er 10 1952
H. ~1dup, Dis tric t 344, Nov emb er 13' 1952
F
emb
arn ngt on, Dis tric t 510, Nov
J ran
't 952
Dra ce, D~str~c.t 228, Nov emb er 14,
M:t -:n
2
195
Ii
er
emb
Lang, Dis tric t 540, Nov
J H
2
195
er
emb
Dec
Fre:~ryF nowden, J:?is~ct 606, ,J~n
3
195
l,
y
uar
618
erguson, D1s~1c!
Car vil
'January l, 1953
Hen p · Ma rlat t, D1str!ct ~8,
Jan uar y 19 1953
,
566
t
tnc
Dis
I hn~ ~whom, trict 372, Jan uar
y 19, t 953
ght, Dis
.
o

::en f

k

'1S
W

9.

61

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

66

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Paul F. Ruff, District 361, February 4, 1953
Harry H. Aiman, District 644, March 2, 1953
Paul A. Hackler, District 330, March 26, 1953
Samuel Steelman, District 528, April 17, 1953
Clarence A. Trowbridge, District 300, June 18, 1953
Lester Totten, District 114, June 23, 1953
Sam Lovell, District 214, June 25, 1953
Robert Edgar, District 386, August 27, 1953
Ray Earl Burdg, District 217, September 5, 1953
Charles R. Morton, District 318, September 14, 1953
James E. Finley, District 328, October 10, 1953.
GRAND MASTERS' CoNPERENCE

In February. in company with the Deputy Grand Master, the Grand
Secretary. and Past Grand Master John R. Moore, I attended the Grand
Masters' Conference of North America at Washington, D. C .• and
also the George Washington Memorial Association at Alexandria,
Virginia. Both meetings were productive of much good and the services
of Brother Wilson and Brother Moore for the Memorial Association
are proving invaluable to the Craft. In passing, it might be said that
our Grand Secretary is now one of the recognized leaders among the
Grand Secretaries of the United States. and his standing in that group
brings great credit to our own Grand Lodge.
One of the highlights of the Conference was the extension of work
begun at the 1952 Conference. At that meeting, a "Commission on
Information for Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges" was created:
and your Grand Master, who was then Deputy Grand Master, was
elected to a six year term on the Commission. Much valuable information has been collated and is now available to the various Grand Lodges
for their use. At the 1953 meeting, the Commission elected me to the
office of Treasurer, and it will be my pleasure to serve them in that
capacity for the balance of the term.
In addition to the work of the conference, it was the pleasure of
our group to entertain three distinguished Californians, in company
with their wives. On the Monday evening preceding the Conference,
the two Senators from California and the Vice-President of the United
States were our guests at dinner. We found Senator Knowland, Senator Kuchel, and Vice-President Nixon, and their charming wives, to
be truly representative Californians and worthy of their positions of
trust in the Government.
VISITATIONS TO OTH~ GRAND LODGES

Following custom, our Grand Lodge was represented at the following Communications of our sister Pacific Coast Grand Lodges.

Grand Lodge of Washington b D
Grand Lodge of Oregon by se!ior e~~z:.wnd .Master Harwell
Grand Lodge of Nevada by Junior G d
arden Clausen:
Grand Lodge of Arizona b G d Mran Warden St~wart:
Grand Lod
fM
Y ran
aster:
.
Grand Lol: ~f Wntan~ by Grand Secretary Wilson:·
Grand Lod:e of Idah~m~ngDby Grand Secretary Wilson:
Grand Secretary Wilson.
y eputy Grand Master Harwell and
Our jurisdictions have been jo. d b
·
affection, and the exchange of vis~~et' Y : strong bond of fraternal
of the Great Pacific Empire has· b~: :~s etw~e~ the Grand Lodges
we were unable to accept invitations t st t gra~fy~ng. We regret that
Utah and Colorado, because of the li'm'to
ten o fttime.
e Grand Lodges of
i a t~ions
CoMMITIEEs

Immediately after the close of the l
C
. .
·
Special Committees were appointed as :~eco~~umcation, the following
t~
Grand Lodge: Insurance Program, Judge Advocate and 0
. versize
dges. In addition, a
Committee on Trial Procedure'
adopted at the 1951 Communicat';as created pursuant to a resolution
ion.

l,

These .comn>:ittees have given attention
to their duties and will
report dunng this Communication.
'

Foreign Recognition and Fraternal Relation8
Because o} the death of Past Grand M
our great authority on Fraternal r
. ~ster Wi~iam Rhodes Hervey,
important work. Because of his ac:~ogn;~i~n, a vo~d w~s created in this
mittee on Policy and General p
mp is ments m this fleld, the CoQlyielded to him this important wor'::~o~~ hgradual~j' through the years
Committee. Realizing the hea
b nd e actua .Y became a one-man
Policy and General Purposes cV:mm~;t en now bemg. place~ upon the
of matters put before them I h
d ee, due to the mcreasmg number
Committee to handle the '.
a;e eemed it advisable to create a new
Many Grand Lodges hav~m~~ ~~t matter ~f Fraternal Recognition.
entire time to the stud of th' . n mg Committees which devote their
appo~ted the followi~g dis:~ni::~!~n~:~~jG:· ~o~his reason, I have
Special Committee on Foreign Recognition.
an
asters to act as a
John R. Moore, Chairman
Chester H. Warlow
Arthur W. Brouillet
.
.
I sincerely hope that my action will b
approved
and
that the Committee will be co n f mu ed f rom eyear
to year.m principle
.

68

PROCEBDINGS OP THE

Commission on Revision of Ross Digest
For many' years, we have been using the Ross Digest aa the baaia of
our CaliE.mia Ma80nic Law. Thia monumental work, created by Put
Grand Muter John Stewart Rosa,
given invaluable aufata.nce to
thole who are required to adminiater our MuonJc: Code.
It la appare:nt, however, to many that an Improvement in induhl9,
u well as a clatiftcation and consolidation of edfcta, etc.. should H
made. In recent years, oth~ Grand Lodge! have made great strides in
modernizing the presentation of their Masonic Codes.
·
The law should be considered by practical lawyers as well·as laymen
who are familiar with the continuing problem of Masters and others who
do not have legal training.
Accordingly, I have created a Commission for the purpose of study,
with the objective of presenting to Grand Lodge an acceptable revision
of the Ross Digest. It is, of course, a program which may require several
years of careful and thoughtful attention. I discussed the program with
the Deputy Grand Master and the Grand Wardens, and they are in full
accord.
Judge Arthur Paulsen, P.G.M., has agreed to accept t~e Chair~an­
ship, and he is well qualified to undertake the task. He will be assisted
by William Nankervis, Jr., a lawyer and for many years the reporter of
the California State Supreme Court. The third member is P.G.M. Lloyd
E. Wilson, Grand Secretary, who perhaps knows better than any other
Mason in California how complex and confusing our law appears to be
in the minds of our Lodge officers. His daily work and experience makes
him eminently qualified to assume the layman's part of this important
undertaking.
This Commission will make a preliminary report during this Communication, and I heartily recommend the continuance of the Commission
for the ensuing Grand Lodge year.

w

EARTHQUAKE LoDGES

At the 1952 Communication of the Grand Lodge, the following
resolution was adopted:
That the incoming Grand Master, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, together with the Chairman of the Committee
on Lodge Financing, be hereby authorized to expend such monies
of Grand Lodge to relieve the unfortunate condition of the
Tehachapi and Maricopa Lodges in their rebuilding projects as
may be collectively decided upon.
Under the date of March 9, 1953, the Chairman of the Committee
on Lodge Financing recommended a .grant of $10,000 to Tehachapi
Lodge No. 313, and a similar grant of $10,000 to Maricopa Lodge No.
434 for thtr purpose of rebuilding their temples.

GRAND LODGB OP CAUPORNIA

69

This was approved on March 11, 1953 by P.G.M. Claude H. Morrison, Chairman of Finance Committee.
After reviewing the correspondence and other pertinent information.
I concurred in their recommendation and approved the appropriation of
funds for this purpose.
WoRKMENs COMPENSATION INSURANCE

At the 1952 Communication, the Finance Committee recommended
that the incoming Grand Master appoint a Special Committee on Insurance to investigate the effectiveness and adequacy of Public Liability and
other insurance coverage of Grand Lodge and the Constituent Lodges.
In connection with Workmens Compensation Liability, it suggested
that, should the Special Committee's recommendation meet with the
approval of the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, the Grand Treasurer and the Chairman of the Finance Committee, that they be authorized
to purchase such W orkmens Compensation coverage as in their Judgment might be required and desirable.
The report ofthe Special Committee in that connection was reviewed
by those named in the authorization and, after due consideration, the
Grand Secretary was authorized to place the coverage in effect as of
August 1st, 1953.
·The full report of the Special Committee covering this and other
phases of insurance will be given during this Communication.
RELIEF TO GRAND LoDGE OP THE NETHERLANDS

We are all familiar with the disaster which struck the west coast 0£
Europe and the British Isles with such devastation last January and
February. Upon receipt of the news, the Grand Secretary dispatched
cables to the United Grand LOdge of England and also to the Grand
Lodge of the Netherlands offering our fraternal assistance. Our Brethren in England gratefully acknowledged our offer, but declined to accept
assistance. The Brethren in the Netherlands, however, were not situated
as fortunately and expressed their need for help. After consultation
With the Elective Grand Lodge Officers and the Chairman of our Finance
Committee, I approved the contribution of $2500 for the relief of the
Lodges and brethren of the Grand Lodge of the Netherlands.
HAWAIIAN loDGES

One of the memorable events in a Grand Master's year is his offtclal
trip to the Islands of Hawaii. My experience in this instance was most
pleasant and, of course, educational and informative.
Prom the time Mrs. Warren, myself, and our daughter Barbara
arrived, and until we departed, we were constantly in the hands of
friends who did their utmost to make our stay pleasant and comfortable.

71

PROCEEDINGS OP THE '

GRAND LODGB OP CALIFORNIA

It would be impossible to list everyone who contributed to our happiness. To do so would require the publishing of the entire roster of
membership in the Islands. Special thanks, however, should go to the
two Inspectors, Doug Potts and Gene Jijine, and their delightful wives
who planned every moment for us. Likewise, the Masters of the Lodges
·who, together with their lovely ladies, contributed so much to our joy
and comfort.
Ofllcial meetings were held .as follows:
May 7 Scliofleld Lodge, No. H3
May 9 Kauai Lodge, No. 589
May 13 Lodge Maui, No. 472
May 15 Kilauea Lodge, No. 330
May 20 Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21
Lodge Le Progres de L'Oceanie, No. 371
Honolulu Lodge, No. 409
Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598
ln addition, we had an opportunity to visit with individual Lodge
groups through the medium of dinner parties and other gatherings.
The Lodges in Hawaii are in excellent condition, the spirit of Masonry is ft.rm, and the leadership· is in good hands.
Attendance at their meetings is above average and the support given
to the various activities of Masonry is remarkable.
The Lodges had just. completed their Public Schools week program
and all reported favorably in that connection. It is interesting to note
that several Island Lodges make the Public Schools observance a continuing one from month to month, climaxing with the ofllcial observance
in April. For this they are to be commended most highly.
Too much praise cannot be given to our Lodges in Hawaii for their
outstanding support of our Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. During
my stay, I noted particularly the deep interest of the brethren in the
Homes program. I am happy to report that every Lodge in Hawaii went
over their quota, and will appear on the Honor Roll. This is particularly
gratifying when we consider that perhaps one third of their members
are scattered over the four comers of the globe.
I discussed a number of pertinent subjects during my visit and, as
a result, I make the following recommendations.

Upon his return we considered their problems very carefully, and as a
result, I have appointed an additional Inspector to serve the Islands.
Kauai Lodge No. 589 has been transferred to a new District to be numbered 386 together with Honolulu Lodge No. 409 and Schofield Lodge
No. 443. Brother Robert Edgar, Officers' Coach of Honolulu Lodge No.
409, and who is presently serving as Junior Grand Steward, has been
highly recommended and he has agreed to accept this new responsibility.
. For many years in the past, the Grand Lecturer made a trip to the
Islands to conduct special Schools of Instruction for the Lodges. Since
the death of Thomas J. Baker in 1934, the Grand Lecturer has visited
the Islands only twice. Once in 1946 and again this year. I recommend
that at least once every four years the Grand Lecturer, or an Assistant
Grand Lecturer designated by him, visit the Island Lodges to give
ritualistic instruction to the brethren.
This is a matter which requires proper budgeting and, I request that
the visitations be made a matter of continuing policy and not subject to
a Grand Master's order.
'
Second, Grand Secretary's Visitation
Each year the Grand Secretary. or the Assistant Grand Secretary,
travels about the jurisdiction to discuss with the Lodges, and the Secretaries, matters of Lodge administration and other important business.
The visitations are becoming more valuable as time goes on and it has
become an accepted, as well as a desirable practice. The Lodges in
Hawaii have not had a visitation from the Grand Secretary in over 30
years. I perhaps could have approached the matter in the same way
that I did with the Grand Lecturer. However, I feel that the desirability
of having the Grand Secretary visit the Island Lodges is a matter for
Grand Lodge itself to determine.
I therefore recommend that the Grand Secretary, or at his direction,
the Assistant Grand Secretary, should visit the Island Lodges at least
once every 10 years. Further, that the trip be made at his convenience
and at a time which will not conflict with a visitation of either the Grand
Master or the Grand Lecturer. I likewise suggest that the visitation also
be made a matter of continuing policy and not subject to the order of
the Grand Master.

First, Ritual
The Lodges on the Islands are remotely situated insofar as receiving
ritualistic instruction is concerned. Because of my long association in
this field, I am convinced that we should make a greater effort to assist
the Island brethren in their desire to keep the high ritualistic standards
which our Grand Lodge has always maintained. At my request, V. W.
Elbert W. Davis, Grand Lecturer, made a special visit to the Hawaiian
Islands in August, and conducted a series of Schools · of Instruction.

Ii Cal.ifornia first entered the Islands of Hawaii when it chartered

70

Third, Administration of Hawaiian Lodges
awaiian Lodge No. 21 in 1852. From that date, Hawaiian Masonry
gradually came under the influence of California. The last Lodge to
~ansfer to us from a foreign jurisdiction affiliated in 1918. In 1924, the
ast of the Hawaiian Lodges to be chartered by us was created.
It ~s. certainly possible that with the growth of population and the
P<>ssib1hty of a division of at least two Lodges, that additional ·Lodges
1118Y be formed.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hawaii is now, and has been for many years, an integral component
part of our Grand Lodge. Nevertheless, no adequate method has been
devised to administer the Island Lodges.
· A number of ideas have been presented, the latest in 1942, when it
was suggested that a Deputy Grand Lecturer be appointed to ~andle
the ritual and other activities of the Lodges. This was not considered
adequate at the time.
Irrespective of the speed of communication, our Lodges in Hawaii
still feel that they are a long way from the seat of government and that
they have been somewhat neglected.
The Grand Lodge of England, the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts,
and ethers, have systems which give a limited amount of home rule, and
yet hold their Lodges closely to home ties. A similar system could be
euily developed and would accomplish the objective.
The majority of our brethren are perhaps not aware of the fact that
on several occasions the brethren of Hawaii have considered forming
their own Grand Lodge. The latest of these meetings to consider such
•
a matter was held on November 20, 1952.
I feel that if we value our ties to Hawaii, we should do something
tQ demonstrate in a concrete manner our affection for them.
The establishment of the office of District Deputy Grand Master
would accomplish such a purpose. The holder of that office could be
a creation of the Grand Master, holding such prerogatives and privileges as might be given to him by the Grand Master. Certain types of
dispensations and other matters ordinarily handled by the Grand Master
or the Grand Secretary could be delegated to him. This will relieve the
Inspectors in the Hawaiian Islands of the heavy administrative work
which accrues to them because of their distance from the Mainland. The
District Deputy Grand Master would have no jurisdiction over the
.ritualistic activities of the Inspectors, who would be entirely responsible
to the Grand Lecturer for that portion of their duties. His work would
still require a review and approval by the Grand Master or the Grand
Ledge at least annually. This would put a proper control over his
activities.
There should be no increase in our ordinary expenses because, up
to this year, we have always appointed a brother from Hawaii to th~
appointive line of officers in the Grand Lodge. The District Deputy
Grand Master could easily take the place of that appointment. This
would keep the mileage payment in line and yet give our brirthren in
.
Hawaii a Grand Lodge Officer worthy of consideration.
Accordingly, I recommend the · addition of the following to our
organic law:
Add Section 52ATbe Grand Master shall appoint, for the Hawaiian Islands, a
District Deputy Grand Master, who shall be a past master of this juris-

diction, resident in the Hawaiian Islands. The District Deputy Grand
Master shall perform such duties appertaining to his office as may be
required of him by the Grand Master, except that he shall have no
supervision over the ritualistic duties of the Inspectors.

73

PUBLICATIONS

Under date of November 20, 1952, I addressed a letter to the Lodges
of the jurisdiction as appended hereto. (See Exhibit A.)
On February 15, 1953, a second letter was sent out. (See Exhibit B.)
In my travels over the state, I find that this policy and the regula· .
tions prepared seem to have the general approbation of the Craft.
It is my opinion that this important subject should be reviewed by
our Committees on Policy and Jurisprudence in order that firm regulations can be established. The various publications, as well as our
membership, are entitled to know just where they stand. To leave this
matter subject to changing edicts of successive Grand Masters puts the
entire program in jeopardy. I claim no particular solution for this problem, nevertheless, the general acceptance of the present plan causes
me to recommend the adoption of the present regulations as part of
our law regulating publications.
The regulations to which I refer will be included in the report of the
Special Committee on Publications and I request your favorable con•
sideration.
USE OF loDGE FUNDS

Public Schools Week
Reports indicate that the 34th Annual Observance of Public Schools
Week was highly successful. It is apparent that there is an increasing
interest in ·t he Public Schools, our great American Heritage. The Committee, of course, will make a full and complete report of its activities
during this Communication.
There is a matter in this connection, however, which in my opinion,
needs adjustment. Each year, successive Grand Masters issue proclamations, proclaiming the week, calling upon the Masons for support,
ftqulring Lodges to remain dark, and to confine their activities to the
Promotion of the Schools Week Program. Lodges are called upon to
IUpport financially the program, and in most instances a very splendid
Job is performed. It seems unreasonable to me to require Lodges to
.lnancially support this work, which is a Grand Lodge activity, and yet
~-be required ay our law to defray the expenses out of refreshment
auuds.

i..To correct this inequity, I recommend the repeal of Section No. 637,
U1cb has to do with the expenditure of Lodge funds in connection

91

75

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

with Public Schools Week. In lieu thereof, I recommend the adoption
of the following amendment to Section No. 157:
Add to Section No. 157The expenditure of funds for any program required by the Grand
Lodge, or the Grand Master, .shall be deemed to be a part of the necessary expenses of the Lodge.

Contributions made in conformity to Section No. 158 are exempt
from Edict No. 718.
This would permit Lodges to contribute to the Homes Endowment
Fund in lieu of flowers, but would still control the contribution of
Lodge Funds in violation of the spirit of Section No. 718.

Proficiency Certificates in Third Degree
All brethren are encouraged to attain proflciency in the Candidates
Lecture of the Master Mason Degree, and in token of such proflciency.
certiflcates are awarded to those who do so. Here again, the Lodge is
required to charge such an expense to the refreshment fund, which is
an imposition upon the Lodge.
I recommend the repeal of Section No. 634 , which requires this
charge.
Trowels to Newly Raised Masons
· This is also a matter which is in keeping .with the highest Masonic
Tradition, and should be encouraged. This item likewise is charged
to the refreshment fund under our law.
I recommend the repeal of Section No. 637, which requires this
charge.
Endowment Fund
The development of our Masonic Homes Endowment Fund is one
of our greatest endeavors. Each year we exert every effort consistent
with Masonic limitations to expand this great Charity.
Many years ago, Grand Master Gist wisely ruled that Lodges
should not contribute to the Endowment Fund, holding that this was
a voluntary effort on the part of the individual. and not on the part of
the Lodge. In this, I heartily .concur.
The passage of time, however, has created a situation which needs
correction. In recent years it has been customary on the part of many,
to make contributions to worthy charities in lieu of floral offerings for
deceased persons. Likewise, many bereft families have made the same
request. There is no rule of reason that should prohibit such a practice
on the part of our Lodges. Under our present regulations, a Lodge is
prohibited from doing so. even if the family makes such a request. I
have reason to believe that contributions are being made in violation
of our regulations. This matter could be easily controlled, and rightfully so, by the adoption of the following addition to Section No. 158.
Add to Section No. 158In lieu of a floral piece for the deceased person, a contribution may
be made to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.
To keep Section No. 718 intact, the following Section No. 718a
should be added.
Add Section No. 718a-

COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

One of our most valuable and active committees is the Committee
on Charters. It was originally created to review the activities and
workings of Lodges operating under dispensation. Since 1947 its
activity has been increased tremendously. Past Grand Master Chester
H. Warlow assigned to the committee the responsibility of accumulating information and other data not ordinarily furnished by the Inspector in connection with requests for Dispensations for new Lodges.
It is true that the procedure outlined in our law does not contemplate
such a program. However, succeeding Grand Masters have found
their work invaluable.
This year with the granting of ten Dispensations, it would have
been a very difficult task to obtain the facts which were compiled by
the committee. The reports presented are comprehensive and cover
population, character and growth of community, Masonic population,
experience of other Lodges in area, composition of new group and other
pertinent data.
It is obvious, with the growth of our State, that new Lodges will
continue to be formed. At least a dozen Masonic Clubs are now functioning with the purpose of eventually applying for Dispensations.
To round out more fully the committee and to lighten its burden,
I suggest the expansion of the committee from seven to nine. In this
way greater geographic distribution of its membership can be obtained.
I therefore recommend the amendment of Section 70 by adding to
line three following the words, "on Lodge Financing," these words,
"on Charters," and deleting from line four following the words, "Pay
of Members," these words, "on Charters."
COMMITTEE ON RETURNS

For many years the Committee on Returns reviewed the annual
reports of Lodges. tabulated the membership, the number of degrees
conferred, the annual dues paid, the mileage paid to representatives, etc.
Since 1905, a number of these items have been consolidated with
reports now prepared by the Grand Secretary's office.
The Annual Returns of Lodges and the money collected therewith
are audited by professional accountants, and this certiflcate is attached
to tJae report of the Grand Secretary. Consequently. the work of this

GRAND LODGB OP CALJPORNIA

71

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

76

Committe~ is a duplication, and their rethP?rt is actu~~y a i~o:: f~~~;

report of the professional auditor. For iodsreason, er~g system I
.
. face of our m em accoun
itt
N 70 be mended by deleting from
.
use for t hi·s C omm ee in
a
therefore recommend that Section o.
line 5, the words. ..on Retums. "
CONSTITUTION OP NEW loDGES

With the carry..over of four Lodges ~nder Oispensati~~ f:pompa~:!
f ten lodges this current year, is
. . ti
difficult task to fully examine
'11 h
year and t he mstitu on ?
that our Charters Committee w1 ave a
th t of the next
the records. etc.. as required by law·
ranted
However. the task will not be nearly as great as a
Grand Master in the event that all or most of these Lodges are g
h Lodge chartered by Grand Lodge
shaii~:i~~!1t~iu~!~ :~~~~e~ixt~t ~:~s thereafter. or the charter shall be

charters.

.

th

tituted in group meetings, as has
b
forfeited.
however that the Con. i
It is true that lodges can e ~ons
been done in the distant past. It is myhohbonth Grand Master is an
the advancement of
stitution of a new Lodge. in itsd o;n :i~ci?'
oes
event of great importance an
th demands on
h
Masonry in the community.
A sixty day limitation seems unreasonable w en o er
d
the time of a busy Grand Master are considered.
th t Section No. 111 be amen f
h
d substituting
It is my recommendation, t ~r~ or~. . a .
ed by striking out the word sixty in hne seven. an
therefor the .word "ninety."

fo:

SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OP GRAND loDGE

b ther to the Masters of the
b
. ation of the Grand
Last November a letter was sent ~ a ro
Jurisdiction, soliciting a. call for a spe~a~ Commumc
: .
Lod e to reconsider our Memorial Building Program.
~ithout giving consideration to the merits of the requfestt, 1t.tydis~~:e:
In the days when our ra erm
1
. .
was a proper
h
a dangerous section in our aw·
small organization, the .~is~es of llf:~o~a~~e.;;~~e~p~ safeguard to
of Grand Officers who
. t'
number to call a spec1a omfmun1 h
protect the rights of Lod~es. rom t e ac ions
Lod . d
might abuse their responsibilities.
ges an
d of 613 Chartered
Communi..
a
call
Our Grand Lodge is now compose
0
tbrother who would
an obsolete section, which allows .onlyh lh5 Mdaste::
ts d gerous weapon in t e an s 0
Our present law requires
f b t t'on
cation, pu a an
embark upon a program o o s ~c i re~ent oefore an Annual or Spe..
seventy-flve Chartered ~~ges to d pThe costs attendant upon calling
cial Communication can oc convene .

a Special ·Communication would be tremendous. If after calling a
Special Communication, the required quorum did not appear, the expense would still have to be met.
It seems to me that it should require the same number of Masters
to call a Special Communication as is required to constitute a quorum.
·Further, because the tendency of our Grand Lodge to expand the
number of its Lodges, it seems desirable that a percentage requirement,
rather than a dellnite number should determine the quorum necessary
for a Regular or Special Communication.
I therefore recommend the amendment of Section 11 by striking
out the words "sev.enty-flve" in line one and substituting therefor the
words "twenty per cent of the." I further recommend the amendment
of Section 32 by striking out the word "fifteen" in line four and substituting therefore "twenty per cent of regularly."
These two amendments will allow for a definite percentage of
Lodges. irrespective of our growth, and will avoid further necessity
of amending our law in this respect.
GRAND LoDGE REPRESENTATIVES

Article II, Section 12 requires the Grand Master to appoint Representatives near other Grand Lodges. and to receive and accept Representatives from them.
This section of our law has not been observed to the extent that it
was originally intended.
In early years. the Grand Representatives were actually ambassadors
who carried- on the work of communicating with other Grand Lodges,
reviewing their proceedings, and performing other assigned duties.
They were received annually at the Grand Lodge, accorded certain
honors, and were required to report as to their activities.
The dianging tempo of time, the rapid system of communication,
the close personal ties of the various Grand Secretaries and Grand
Masters through conferences, and the creation of Committees to review
proceedings, has made this position an appendage which amounts to
a position of honor without duty.
I make no recommendation regarding this section, but request that
our Committee on Policy and General Purposes study the matter in
order that our Grand Lodge may pursue a policy which will be in keep ..
ing with today's requirements and which will enable future Grand
Masters to carry out the will and pleasure of the Grand Lodge.
FoREST LoooE No. 66
Section 53, paragraph 8th requires the Inspector of a Masonic Dis..
trict to report the working condition of each Lodge in his district to the
Grand Lecturer before the First day of July of each year.
The report of Inspector Eric W. Nelson, District 202, made in con-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

73

PROCEIIDINGS OP TH~

as of such a nature that the Grand Lecturer
.
.
b 19th
formity to this regulation, w
.
referred it to me for action on Septem er
The report indicates: has been represented at Grand Lodge ComLod
. the last twelve years.
ge
ONE: That t h e
munications only three times dlunnJ t the December 16. 1951 meeting
Two: That the officers e ecte a
·ficate of election for 1952 was filed in
have not yet been inst~lled..
'dered invalid because no Lodge
THREE: That an mvahd cbee~1
January 1953: said certificate mg cons1
b h' f 29 only 3 members live in Allegmeeting was held.
FouR: That out of a mem e~s ~p .: ssible to gather a quorum for
hany with a consequence that it is i po
ested information regarding the operah
meeting purposes.
d that no cooperation has been
F1vE: The Inspector as requ.
the Lodge from time to time an
of
.
t ion
ard
. h'
offered by the officers m t is regl d.. tched . a summons to the Master
Upon receipt of the report.h 2~p:ters Committee during this Coma brin with him the Lodge Charordering him to appear before t e
munication. He was furthef rRorderdesd ~~cludi~g the Minute Book. Tilers
. B L ws Books o ecor •
.
tinent records.
d h
ter. its Y a •
t I am persuaded that the CharRegister. Returns an ot er per,
On the basis of the Inspector s ~e~or However before taking such a
f the Lodge should oe made
ter of this Lodge should be revo e. . .
step: I feel that a revi~w of Sthehactiv1t~ o will enable the Grar.d Lodge
the Charters Committee. uc a rev1 "".'
by . C ommun1'cati'on to take proper. action.
at this
DECISIONS

to make decisions on matters
.
.
,
to be in that categor)'•
Each Grand Master is called upon
. sly covered · Thl following appear
not prev1ou
DECISION No. 1
questions:
·ng
11
f
·1 't lf of the investment proI was aske d t h e o ow1
" 1. Must a Lodge, in. ordt; t~ ~v;; ~~~ow the advice of the pro. ..
cedure authorized by Section " 2 .
.
fessional Invest~e~~ Ad~.isor?
and
confer
"shall
Lodge
the
t
th
.
.
The answer ts NO.
. The requirement of the sect~n is :emplated investments with the
counsel as to any such proPc:>se or ~~ Grand Lodge." This does not
professional Investment Adv1s~~see e:ecute the recommendations of
g mendations are advisory only.
make it mandatory that Tthhe
·
e recom
· or .
f . al Investment A d visor
the Investment Advis
d
ess1on
pro
uch
f
e trustees in respect of the Lo ge
"2. How does .t.h e usetho
g
affect the responsibility of e
f ·onat Investment Advisor does not relieve
investments?"
The use of such pro ess1

W

79

the Lodge trustees of their responsibilities. It would, of course. be a
factor in considering whether the trustees acted as should a prudent
man. In this regard, attention is invited to Section 2261, California
Civil Code, reading as follows, in part:
" ( 1) In investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging.
selling and managing property for the beneflt of another, a trustee shall
exercise the judgment and care, under the circumstances then prevailing,
which men of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not in regard to speculation, but in regard
to the permanent disposition of their funds, considering the probable
income, as well as the probable safety of their capital."
The Civil Code section referred to above should, of course, be read
in conjunction with the pertinent provisions of our Masonic law. For
example, Masonic law provides as follows in R.D. 154 as to the responsibilities of our trustees. A Lodge may hold title to all of its assets
with the power to acquire, mortgage, sell and convey property and to
invest and reinvest its funds; or, it may through trustees provided for
in a standing resolution, iwhc shall always be under its control, hold,
mortgage. sell and othe?Wise. dispose of its property and funds. which
may be invested and reinvested as the Lodge shall direct.
DECISION No. 2

I was asked the following question:
"May there be presented posthumously to the family a Fifty Year
Button?"
The ans~er is "NO."
The Fifty Year Veteran Button is intended for the member by
whom it was earned and not as a memento to the family. Section
658, 658(a) R.D.
DECISION No. 3

I was asked the following question:
"An applicant for affiliation presented to a Lodge his receipt for
dues paid three months in advance, together with a request for a dimit
to his old Lodge. The request for the dimit was lost in transit. A
quarterly period for payment of dues has elapsed in the interim.
"Should the brother be required to bring his dues to date in the old
Lodge before the issuance of a dimit?"
The answer is "YES." (Sec. 250 R._D.)
The applicant would not be entered as a member of the new Lodge
until there was presented a Dimit from the old Lodge. Consequently.
there is no reason why the member should be excused from paying
dues during the intervening period.

80

PROC~EDINGS

OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

81

I was asked the following question:
"Whether a son of a Past Master who is confined in a mental institution may present a request of a Dimit in order to prevent the accrual
of dues which his father is unable to pay?"
The answer is that the lodge should remit the dues of the Past
Master as one who is unable to pay them. (Section 255, R.D.)

refuse admission if it so desires, since admission would be as a courtesy
only. The Entered Apprentice would not have a right of admission
as is the right, albeit itself qualified, of a Master Mason. Moreover,
ff the other lodge permits the Entered Apprentice to visit, this is done
without examination and as a courtesy shown to the lodge in which
he received the Degree or to the Master Mason accompanying him.
(Secs. 173, 1046 R.D.)

DECISION No. 5

DECISION No. 8

I was asked the following question:
"Whether a lodge on a social occasion may distribute by chance
selection merchandise awards or premiums?"
The answer is "NO."
The circuDlStances presented may be on the legal borderline but
the fact remains that the distribution of the merchandise awards or
premiums is by chance selection rather than by the employment of
skill. Consequently, it appears to be in violation of both civil and
Masonic law, or so nearly so as to call for its elimination as a matter
of policy.
It would be against the spirit, if not the letter, of Section 288 R.D.
See also Section 740 R.D. and Section 319 Penal Code of California.

I was asked the following question:
"Is an applicant who was convicted by general court martial of
desertion in 1930, served a year, and was dishonorably discharged from
the Army, eligible to receive the degrees of Masonry?"
The answer is "NO."
Desertion from the Army may be punished by confinement in a
penitentiary. ( 1928 Manual for Courts-Martial United States Army,
Sec. 90). Such desertion may be punished by confinement in excess of
one year. ( 1928 Manual for Courts-Martial United States Army,
Sec. 104-c). An offense which is punishable by imprisonment for a
term exceeding one year is a felony. (Title 18, U. S. Code Annotated,
Sec. 1 ).
Hence it is apparent that such desertion is similar to a State court
conviction for felony and that the applicant is not under the tongue of
good report and that his petition should not be received. (Sec. 875 R.D.)

DECISION No. 4

DECISION No. 6

I was asked the following question:
"What corrective action may an Inspector take in respect of officers
who fail or refuse to attend meetings of Officers' Associations, or who
do not possess the requisite administrative ability for advancement?"
It is the duty of the Inspector to require attendance of officers at
meetings of the Officers' Associations: likewise, it is part of the duties
of the officers to attend. (Sec. 53, 865 R.D.) If the offending officer
is one who requires a certificate of advancement, then the Inspector
may withhold such certificate. If such officer is one who does not require
a certificate for advancement, the Inspector should request the Master
to remove the offending officer and appoint another in his place. Failure
of a Master to accede to such request of the Inspector, or if the Master
be the offender, would subject the Master to removal by the Grand
Master. (See Sec. 856, R.D.)
Similar action may be taken in respect to officers who are incapable
·of performing efficiently the administrative duties. (Sec. 53, R.D.)
DECISION No. 7

"May an Entered Apprentice, in the company with a Master Mason
who witnessed his initiation, visit another Lodge on the First Degree?"
The answer is "YES," provided, however, that the other lodge may

DECISION No. 9

I was asked the following question:
"Does a circular announcement by the Insurance Square Club of
tile East Bay, apparently mailed by first class mail to its members, and
notifying them that an applicant and member was to receive the Third
Degree of Masonry. violate Masonic Law?"
The answer is "YES."
The information thus sent through the mails may well come into
the hands of non-Masons, plus published information which should
be kept within tiled precincts of Lodges. (Sec. 696. 697 R.D.)
DECISION No. 10

I was asked the following question:
"What trial procedure should govern in report of charges against
a Master, who was Senior Warden at the time the charges were
brought?"
Since the charges were not preferred against a member as the then

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

82

Master of the Lodge, the trial procedure for the trial of an individual
member should govern. (Sec. 274, et seq., R.D.: Sec. 287, et seq., R.D.)
DECISION No. 11

I was asked the following question:
"Does conviction of a felony make ineligible to membership an
applicant for Degrees, who received a commuted sentence, a Presidential pardon, where no time was served in prison and rehabilitation
seems apparent?"
The answer is "YES."
Recommendation and Ruling No. 30 by Grand Master Drapeau,
1952.
DEc1s10N No. 12

"May a Lodge invest more than 20% of its funds in the second
category of permissible investments. prescribed by Section 152.1 R.D .•
if the Lodge has not invested 40% thereof in the third category?"
The answer is "NO.''
The li~itations prescribed for the second and third categories of
permissible investments must be adhered to in all cases. The law does
not, expressly or by reasonable implication, authorize the investment
of.lodge funds in excess of the percentages stated for the second - a~d
third categories even though the Lodge has not invested up to said
prescribed limit in one or the other of the said second and third categories. Of course, with reference to the first category, 4?% of t~e
lodge funds must be so invested and up to 100% may be invested m
the said first category.
DECISION No. 13

I was asked the following question:
"Where a Lodge has invoked Article IV, Section 2, of Section
133 R.D .• in respect of an applicant who has failed to come forth for
initiation or to present himself properly qualified for the Second or
Third Degrees, is this a denial of advancement by action of the Lod~e
so as to require, after proper presentation, a refund of the applicant s
contributions for Masonic Homes of California and for the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial?"
The answer is "YES.''
Section 100 R.D. expressly provides:
"If an applicant shall die before being raised or be elected to membership in another Lodge beyond this jurisdiciton un~er a dimit issued
by his Lodge, or shall be denied advancement by action of the Lodge,
the fact shall be certified to the Grand Secretary by the Secretary of
the Lodge and the Grand Secretary shall thereupon cause the con-

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

83

tribution to be returned to the Lodge, which shall thereupon refund
the payment to the widow or representative of the deceased applicant.
or to the applicant himself as the case may be. ( 1950)."
. It will be observed from reading the Section quoted that the obligation on Grand Lodge to return the applicant's said contributions does
not depend upon whether the Lodge has or has not refunded his "fees.''
Hence, when an applicant is denied advancement and the Secretary
of ~he Lodge so certifies to the Grand Secretary. the Grand Lodge is
obligated to return to the Lodge the contributions for refund to the
applicant. This is so whether or not "the Lodge shall otherwise direct"
in respect of the fees retained by the Lodge. Such fees are separate
·
from such contributions (Sec. 629, 721-A, R.D.)
DEc1s10N No. 14
I was asked the following questions:
" ( 1 ) Does membership in the Communist Party constitute unmasonic
conduct: and
" ( 2 ) May such a member be tried therefor if the Lodge membership was obtained after his Communistic membership had ceased?"

The answer to each question is "YES.''
Membership in the Communist Party is in an organization which
act;vely advocates the overthrow of our Government by force and violence and teaches hatred of God and forms of .religion. There should
l·e no quibbling about this definition. Recent world-wide developments
tnrnish adequjlte demonstration.
Moreover, Past Grand Master, Randolph V. Whiting. in 1935,
with prophetic foresight stated the case against Communism at pages
408, et. seq .• 1935 Grand Lodge proceedings. when he said this in his
annual message:
."The objects and purposes of this organization are so fundamentally
anti-Masonic, and so contrary to the spirit and genius of our government and our religious and social institutions, that I have deemed it not
only a proper subject for presentation in Lodges, but as imposing an
absolute obligation on every Mason in this jurisdiction to advise himself
as fully as possible with reference to it, and to use every legitimate and
lawful means to prevent the spread of its influence and teaching."
Loyalty to the government in whose domain the Mason resides is
an indispensable requisite. See the old York Constitutions of 926,
· Par. 14: the Constitutions of Edward III, Par. 4: the charges approved
in 1722, Part II; Pages 579 and 582 Ross Digest ( 1952).
The said charges approved in 1772, Part II, state that the member
a
of lodge may not be expelled for disloyalty to his government, but
being charges, and not landmarks, that provision is subject to change

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

85

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

84

and amendment. Under the Masonic law as it exists in our Grand
Jurisdiction, the member is subject to disciplinarian action and expulsion.
For example, declaring an unbelief in God is a Masonic o~ense
and renders the lodge member subject to expulsion. Sections 724, 208.
868-870, Ross Digest.
With respect to the question of whether the membership in the
Communist Party anti-dated the lodge membership (a question dubious
of proof) it is clear under our Masonic law that a Mason may be tried
for offenses committed before initiation. Section 753 Ross Digest.
Moreover, knowing the tactics of Communists, it would seem that you
could not take the word of a person that he had renounced Communism
unless the most cogent proof was abduced.
.
Consequently. for the reasons stated and under the circumstances
presented, the lodge member may be tried and expelled.
DECISION No. 15

I was asked the following question:
"In the event there is a profit on a sale of securities held for life
memberships. should this profit be treated as income for use by the
Lodge as a part of its general fund?"
The answer is "NO."
.
Such a profit is actually an increment of the corpus of the life membership fund, which is a trust, the income only of which may ·be used
for lodge purposes. Sec. 153, R.D.
It should be home in mind that the life membership fund could
decrease as well as increase by the sale of securities. Also, that stock
dividends of such securities are treated as constituting a corpus of the .
trust and not as cash dividends. The "income" referred to Section 153
means interest or cash dividends which may revert to the general fund
of the lodge. The corpus of the life membership fund. or trust, would
include any profit realized on a sale, as being part of the "amounts
paid for life memberships'' and as part of the "original amounts to be
forever kept and maintained as and for a permanent life membership
.fund.'' See · Act. 8696. Sec. 3, Deering General Laws. Principal &
Income Act.
DECISION No. 16

I was asked the following question:
"When a lodge has declared the fees of an Entered Apprentice
forfeited for non-advancement under Section 133, Article IV, subsection
2, R.D .• and the Entered Apprentice desires now to apply to another
lodge for the remaining Degrees, what procedure should he follow?"
The Entered Apprentice first should apply to the original lodge for

f

a waiver: then, after ·receiving th.1 h h Id
for the remaining Degrees His :·
s ?u apply to the second lodge
the required fees for the ·two pp.icabon should be accompanied by
contributions to the Mason. rHemaming Degrees and the prescribed
M
.
ic omes and the G
W hin
emor1a1• in the event such contrib ti
d . eorge
as gton
funded. (Sec. 133, Art IV
b ? on an assessment has been re818, R.D.
'
' su scnption 2: Sec. 703: Sec. 243: Sec.
the original
lodgefinvo kedt
d he provisions of Section
·
133 R.D
for When
forfeiture
on account
·
d
o non-a vancement the lod
h 1'
ma e proper presentation to the G d S
•
ge s ou d have
refunded to the applicant th
ecretary who then should have
California and for the George :fin ~ utions for the Masonic Homes of
(See Decision Number l J.) e as ington Masonic National Memorial.

:b

DEc1s10N No. 17

~. was asked the following question:

May a lodge, through a nomi
b 'b
association to obtain credit report nee, suli scri e or belong to a credit
The answer is "YES " . s on app cants for the Degrees?"
• with these provisos:
The157,
expense
thereof would be a proper expenditure of lodge funds.
(Secs.
673, R.D.)
.
Since it is the duty of the Master to a
gating Committee (Sec. 669 R D )
d ppomt and direct the lnvestiof the Investigating Committee .sh. l~n b since secrecy of the identity
It behooves the Master to see tha ou
e preserved (Sec. 673, R.D.)
cfpfes in obtaining the flnanc'al t therd~ are no violations of these prin1 or ere 1t reports.
DEc1s10N No. 18

~. was asked the following question:

lodge funds be used for entertainment
·
their May
wives?"
of coaches, officers and
~e andsw~. is "NO." (R.D. 157, 621, 864[a])
ese eas1ons were compil d wi h h

Henry C. Clausen, Senior Gran~
t t e expert assistance of R. W.
9ratitude. I sincerely ho e that th Warden, and to him I owe a debt of
cate to assist the GrandpMaster . e h~oi;oset creation of a Judge Advoat this Communication.
. in s ega problems will be approved
CONCLUSION

This concludes my re rt f h
·
The year would not hav~ee: c~: ~ctiviti.es for the past twelve months.
by the Officers of the Grand Lod p e::, ~1~out the support given to me
Various committee-men, lnspector:ep
ecdtive
and appointive.
The
' astt Geran
Masters,
and, of course,

87

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the brethren of our Lodges scattered throughout our great Jurisdiction
have made my work easy.
My especial thanks go to those brethren who provided for my transportation and comfort during my travels throughout the state. To name
them all would be difficult, and I would dislike to overlook anyone. Consequently. they must remain anonymous.
I would be remiss also if I did not express my appreciation to the
very efficient staff of the Grand Lodge Office, who have been so considerate and thoughtful during the many years that it has been my
privilege to be associated with them. These words are inadequate to
repay them for the fine service which they have given.
During the year just closed I have been privileged to discuss Masonry with a great j!Umber of brethren and on many levels.
Early this year, I had a visit from R. W. W. P. Schetelig, Senior
Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines. We talked
about his experiences in the outer provinces of that great country and
how Masonry has captured the hearts and minds of the people of the
Philippines. We discussed the growth of Masonry in Japan and how,
at last, the leaders of that country were taking the vows of our Craft.
He had a vision of the spread of Masonry through the Islands of the
Pacific, in Indonesia and across to India - that great country just
awakening into a new place in the world: a great ring of Brotherhood
surrounding the. world enclosed by the Iron Curtain of godless Soviet
Russia.
At the Grand Masters' conference, the M. W. Theodore Vogel
told us of the reconstruction of the old Grand Lodges of Germany into
a new Unified Grand Lodge. The M. W. Jaime Granados, Grand
Master of Costa Rica, gave us the story of the craft in his land. We
heard from the representatives of several Mexican Grand Lodges, from
Argentina, and other lands, all testifying to the slow, but constant,
growth of Masonry in countries which are gradually awakening to our
tenets and principles.
For several years it has been my privilege to count as friends my
Masonic brethren who brought into being the Grand Lodge of Chinanot yet recognized by us. Their devotion to Masonry cannot be questioned, because it is genuine.
Last March, at my reception in San Diego, the Grand Master of
Baja California, and his entourage of Grand Officers and Past Grand
Masters, extended to our Grand Lodge the fraternal greetings and
felicitations of our Mexican brethren just south of our border.
I am narrating this to indicate the growing prestige of Masonry
and the unification of all nationals and races into one Great Brotherhood.
The climax w~s reached on August 21. 1953 when an American of
Japanese ancestry was raised to the sublime Degree of Master Mason

in one of our Lodges. The degree was conferred upon the brother by
the Senior Warden of his Lodge-a brother of Chinese ancestry. A
large number of Grand Lodge officers and Inspectors were present, and
it was my privilege to extend to him the Right Hand of Fellowship.
My experiences through the year convince me more vividly than
ever of the Destiny of our Great Fraternity.
Men of faith drawn together in good works by the bonds of Brotherhood, under the Fatherhood of God, can and will lead the world out of
chaos and the morass. which seems to now engulf us. Let us renew our ·
solemn obligations and rededicate ourselves to the great purposes which
bind us together.
May the blessing of Heaven rest upon us all regular Masons! May
1'r<tth.erly Love prevail, and every moral and social virtue cement us!
Amen!

86

Grand Master
The Deputy Grand Master referred the Message to the Committee
on Segregation appointing the following members to serve thereon:
Donald G. Campbell, Lloyd D. Mcintyre and Kenneth H. McCutcheon.

88

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

November 20. 1952
EXHIBIT "A"

To the Lodges of this Jurisdiction.
Brethren:
The subject of so..called Masonic Publications caused prolonged
debate and discussion at the last Communication of Grand Lodge.
In view of the intense interest in this question, it becomes necessary
to review certain phases of the matter.
The Committee on Publications presented a factual report which
was received and filed. This report covered the activities of the Com·
mittee and outlined its procedure· and methods.
The Grand Master, in his message. referred to the subject under
Decision and Recommendations No. 44. The Committee on Segregation recommended that this Decision and Recommendation be referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported as follows:
"This ruling contains no decision of law requiring action by the
Committee." This was signed by Brothers Dayton, Moore, Lawler,
Taylor, Jones and Paulsen for the Committee.
In our opinion, the matter is now in the hands of the Grand Master
under the same conditions as existant one year ago.
In light of the temper of the discussion, and the evident interest of
the bre~hren,some modification is desirable without emasculating the law.
It is our opinion (not concurred in by some) that news bulletins or
trestleboards containing dates of meeting and other general information
fall into the category of general news, and no undue harm would come
to Masonry should such information be found in so-called Masonic
periodicals. Likewise, the listing of Lodge officers and places of meeting
occupies a similar position. We all agree, however, that official notices
and matters of information which concern only the Members of the
Lodge should be withheld from public knowledge. The matter of the
use of rosters and Lodge funds is fully covered in our law, and no
relaxation of this condition should prevail.
Another matter which needs consideration is the use of publications
for <:haritable purposes. It seems desirable and proper that publications .
whose entire proceeds are devoted to charity, and which are now banned
under the existing regulations of the Publication Committee, should
have some relief.
After much contemplation, the following rule would seem to be
entirely within the framework of the law.
Publications whose sole purposes are for charitable assistance shall
present to the Grand Master their source of revenue and list all expenses
smd items expended for promotion. The Grand Master may, in such

89

cases. grant sanction upon the condition that the net proceeds of the
publication, after allowing reasonable expense and promotion, shall be
delivered to the charity in who~e name the publication has been published.
This rule would allow certain publications who have always operated
on an ethical basis to continue their very fine contribution to humanity.
Some <:hanges will be noted in the ·personnel of the Committee on
Publications.
M. W. John R. Moore, P.G.M .• who served as Chairman . during
the formative years of the Committee, and who has given immeasurably
of his time, ·has requested to be relieved from further service because of
the press of other Masonic duties. We are indebted to Brother Moore
for his work, and we regret that we must function in this endeavor
without his earnest and truly Masonic guiding spirit.
Likewise. W. Newcomb Condee has asked to be relieved for similar
reasons. Like Brother Moore, Brother Condee has been with this Committee since its inception and his services are, of course. deeply appreciated.
THIS IS A STATEMENT OF GENERAL POLICY ONLY,
and no action whatever is to be taken by the Lodges until after the
Committee on Publications has set out in detail the procedures which
may be followed under it.
I have appointed the following Committee who will put into proper
form the modifications which I have outlined, and which will be in effect
until they are repealed or modified.
James F. Dougan, Chairman, 4210 Linden Ave., Long Beach
Arthur W. Brouillet, 1114 Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco 5
Arthur S. Crites, 1001 Oleander Street, Bakersfield.
Laurence E. Dayton, 1832 Magellan Drive, Oakland 11
J. Everett Houser, 814 Security Bldg., Long Beach 2
It seems wise at this time to list below the only publications whic:h
have met the conditions imposed by Section 127:
Bay Area Mason and Eastern Star
Channel Counties Mason and Eastern Star
Kern County Masonry and Eastern Star
Masonic News
Orange County Masonic Bulletin
Seaboard Mason and Eastern Star
San Luis Obispo County Mason and Eastern Star
Southern California Masonic Journal
Square and Compass
It is my desire that this be read in full at the Stated Meeting following its receipt.
Fraternally yours,
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

ARTHUR M. WARREN

Grand Master

90

91

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

EXHIBIT "B"

· The Committee interprets this Section as permitting an individual
Mason to solicit, ·sponsor, insert, place or print advertising without an
express sanction provided the publication involved ·has obtained prior
approval through its owner, publisher or sponsor.

February 15, 1953

To the Lodges of this Jurisdiction.
Brethren:
Under date of November 20, 1952, the Most Worshipful Arthur
M. Warren. Grand Master, issued a circular letter containing his statement of general policy on the subject of so-called "Masonic Publications" and appointing the undersigned committee to outline the procedures which will be followed to put the policy into effect.
Pursuant to that authority and with the approval of the Grand
Master the special committee on publications hereby establishes the
following regulations to take effect forthwith:
( 1 ) The express sanctions heretofore granted certain publications
are modified to permit the publication of news bulletins or trestleboards
containing dates of meeting, other general information, lists of Lodge
officers and places of meeting in accordance with the Grand Master's
circular letter of November 20, 1952. and not otherwise.
(2) New regulations have been set up under which the owners.
publishers or sponsors of so-called Masonic Publications may apply for
the express sanction described in Section 127 of the Ordinances under
the modified policy established by the Grand Master. They relate to
periodicals such as monthly magazines and occasional publications such
as programs for charitable purposes. Information will be sent upon
request }:,y the Grand Secretary, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco 2,
California.
( 3) Application for approval under the new regulations must be on
flle with the Grand Secretary on or before June 1, 1953: otherwise any
and all previous sanctions. approvals or statements issued to publications
will on said date expire and terminate without further action.
( 4) Your attention is invited to the fact that neither the Grand
Master's circular nor this letter has altered existing prohibitions on the
acceptance of advertising in Lodge bulletins or trestleboards. the use
of Lodge funds for the assistance or remuneration of Masonic publications. the release of Lodge rosters. official notices of a confidential nature.
or names and addresses of old or new members for solicitation purposes.
( 5) Section 127 of the Ordinances remains in full force and effect.
It provides as follows:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge. without the express sanction of
Grand Lodge. shall solicit. sponsor. insert. place or print advertising of
any kind in or for any medium or publication, which purports to be
Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body.
order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to
membership.••

( 6) The general purpose of the new regulations is to permit the
continued operation of those Masonic publications which handle their
advertising and editorial policy in an ethical manner and so as to avoid
scandal or reproach to the Craft. Your Committee is reasonable but
not disposed to leniency toward violators and we will appreciate receiving information on any infractions of the law which may occur.
It is our suggestion that this letter be read at your next Stated
Meeting.
Fraternally yours.
SPECIAL CoMMIITEE oN PUBLICATIONS

James F. Dougan. Chairman
Arthur W. Brouillet
Arthur S. Crites
Laurence E. Dayton
J. Everett Houser
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary
Approved:
ARTHUR M. WARREN

Grand Master
November 14, 1952

To the Inspectors of the Jurisdiction:
During the Communication just closed, I bad hoped to have an
opportunity to meet with you at your School of Instruction. Due to the
press of business. I was unable to be present.
I have a few matters which are of common interest to each of us
and upon which I solicit your assistance.

New Lodges
The f~rmation of new Lodges requires utmost care and skill, and
the combined efforts of the Inspector and the Charters Committee have
been most helpful to preceding Grand Masters. While the Inspector's

93

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

responsibility is outlined in 'our law, nevertheless, there are some matters
which require someone not too close to the situation to appraise. I think
it would be a B.ne demonstration of cooperation, if the Inspectors would
encourage the members of the Charters Committee, informally of course,
to discuss common problems with new groups. This should always be
with the consent and assistance of the Inspector. In this way matters
of mutual interest could be adjusted and a smooth course could be
charted for the new group.
With the information submitted by the Inspector, and such material
as the Charters Committee may be requested to accumulate, the Grand
Master then can determine, with propriety, the necessity of issuing a
Dispensation.
.
Irrespective of the material furnished by both groups, the Grand
Master, under our law, has the exclusive right to pass upon and issue
the Dispensation. I feel certain that I can count on your cooperation
in this endeavor.

quiring Lodges to devote a portion of their program to important subjects
which. are determined and planned by the Grand Lodge. It is my
opiniml tlr.at our Lodges are fully capable of working out thc:ir own
pi09WU on a voluntary buis guided, of QOUrSC, by the GJ:Ud Lodge
tlarough the In1pecton. It ii my hope that each ·Lodge in the Juril&
ticlll Will plan at least one meeting per month devoted b:> Muonic.
Patriotic, or Public Service subjects. If the lup~r$ will give their
support and guid"nce to this program, I am certain that a sound, constructive approach to this important undertaking can be developed. In
order to test the effectiveness of this suggestion, I ask that a report be
given to me on or before June 30, 1953, indicating the type of programs
used and the interest aroused by this plan. This will enable me to
present to Grand Lodge a method whereby we can implement the advancement of Masonic knowledge, a subject which has created tremendous interest and discussion for many years.
The longer I work in Masonry, the more I am convinced of the
valuable service rendered t~ the Craft by the Inspectors' Corps. I have
had a warm friendship and close association with the group for over
seventeen years and my sincere wish is that this year will enable me to
cement more strongly the ties of brotherly love and affection.

92

50-Year Buttons
Each year the number of Veteran Masons is increasing. It is, therefore, apparent that the Grand Master must of necessity decline, except
in rare cases, all requests for this ceremony. The Inspector of the District is the Deputy of the Grand Master and I will be most happy if
the presentation can be made by the Inspector unless there is some
strong personal reason for some other individual to preside.
Visitations
I do not expect to be able to travel as extensively as some of my
predecessors. My business requirements will force me to confine most
of my weekday evenings to the area within driving range of San Francisco. On weekends I hope to be able to go greater distances. I have
made a num15er of commitments for the usual breakfasts and other types
of meetings and hope to be able to reach as many areas as possible.
In order to do a good job, it seems advisable to visit such districts as
have not been· reached during the last few years. I would suggest that
you discuss the matter of visitation with your officers and then make
suggestions to me as to the time and place most desirable. If this is
done within a reasonable period after the receipt of this letter, we will
be able to arrange a satisfactory schedule without losing valuable ti~~·
Masonic Education
The establishment of Research Lodges has created a new .approach
to this important subject. The B.nal answer will not be found until each
Lodge in the Jurisdiction has an active organized Committee on Education. Meetings should be devoted to the advancement and improvement
of the mind as well as the indoctrination and inspiration of candidates
through the degrees. Other jurisdictions have met this problem by re-

Sincerely and fraternally,
ARTHUR M. WARREN
Grand Master

April 15, 1953

To the Inspectors, Masters, Wardens and Brethren of the Jurisdiction:
An increasing number of violations of Sections 78 and 152 of the
Constitution and. Ordinances of Grand Lodge has been called to my
attention.
AnaThis legislation was adopted after a long series of unfortunate
. ~cial experiences on the part of many Lodges and Temple Assoctations. It is imperative that the provisions of the law be complied
With implicitly.
The Sections read as follows:
Sec. 78. No Lodge, temple association, lodge trustee committee,
~iation, partnership or corporation, representing itself as Masonic
character or operating for the benefit of a Masonic Lodge or Lodges,
asonry or Masons, shall undertake any plan, scheme, project or
whereby real property is to be purchased or leased for more
an three y~s for use as a Masonic Temple or a Masonic Temple
~te, or whereby any Masonic Temple is to be erected or altered and
t expenditure required in any such case will exceed Two ThoUS8Ad,

M

:ethod

Five Hundred Dollars ( $2,500.00) without first obtaining the written
approval of the Committee on Lodge Financing.
Sec. 152. A Lodge may invest its funds in securities prescribed as
legal for savings banks by the laws of the State of California or by the
laws of the territory in which the Lodge is located; Provided that after
first obtaining the consent of the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge
Financing, it may invest its funds as follows:
1. (a) In real estate embracing a building suitable for occupancy
or in part by a Masonic Lodge, or
whole
in
( b) In land upon which it is proposed to erect such a building, or
( c) In 'the erection of such a building upon land owned by the Lodge.
2. In memberships or shares, as the case may 'he, of a corporation
(a) which owns real estate embracing a building suitable for the
occupancy in whole or in part by a Masonic Lodge, or
( b) which owns land upon which it is proposed to erect such a
building, provided however, that the Lodge or Lodges shall hold a
controlling interest in any such corporation or shall by such investment
·
acquire a controlling interest therein.
3. By making a loan evidenced by
. (a) A duly executed promissory note amply secured by a first lien
against property of a class described under paragraph 1 above, or
( b) A promissory note duly executed by a corporation in which the
Lodge owns a controlling interest.
Provided, however. that prior to making any such investment mentioned in paragraph 1, 2 and 3 above, there shall first have been submitted to and approved by the Grand . Lodge Committee on Lodge
Financing, such of the following data as circumstances may direct:
(a) An appraisal or other evidence of the value of the land and
building involved,
( b) An appraisal or other evidence of value of the land upon which
the building is to be erected,
( c) Plans and specifications and estimates covering cost of construction for any building,
.
( d) Plans for financing same;
and provided, further, that under no circumstances shall life membership funds of any Lodge be invested in securities other than those prescribed as legal for savings banks by the laws of the State of California
or by the laws of the territory in which the Lodge is located.
In order that there will be no misunderstanding of the responsibility
of Lodge Officers and Inspectors in the matter, this circular is to be read
in full at the next two succeeding stated meetings of your Lodge.
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

94

ARTHUR M. WARREN

Grand Master

April 27, 1953

To the Masters. Wardens, Bret.hren of the Jurisdiction:
Each year an increasing number of resolutions are presented to
Grand Lodge for consideration. In order that they may be given proper
attention and -thoughtful processing, it is essential that they be in our
hands as soon as possible.
Section 69 requires that every proposal be referred to a committee
before final enactment . .
It is obvious, therefore, that to properly evaluate these proposals,
they should be given to the proper committee well in ·advance of the
Communication.
I, therefore, request and urge that all Lodges and brethren who have
resolutions or other material to present at the coming Annual Communication have them in the ·h ands of the Grand Secretary not later
·
than July 31, 1953.
In addition, all proponents of measures should be prepared to
appear before the respective committees to discuss their proposals during
the week of Grand Lodge. In this way, we will be assured that the
rights and privileges of every one in the jurisdiction will be guaranteed.
Your cooperation is earnestly solicited.
This must be read at the May, June and July Stated Meetings.
Sincerely and fraternally,
ARTHUR M. WARREN

Grand Master
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

May 11, 1953

To Masters and Wardens of Lodges in this Jurisdiction:
Brethren:
If your Lodge is planning a week end visit to Columbia Temple and
California's surrounding Mother Lode country this year, we suggest
that you make immediate reservations for use of the Temple through
the Grand Secretary's office. The rental fee is only $25.00.
There are still very desirable open dates, although many Saturday
n(ights have already been reserved by Lodges from all over California
of which yours may be one).

96

Incidentally, it is by no means too early to make your plans now
for 1954 and· to thus assure yourselves of the most favorable date for
your own Lodge.
Columbia and the aunoundfng Sierra foothills are interesting and
beautiful fn every seuon. Right now, the flush of Spring is on the
land and there fa still good skiing fn the Sierra-an easy drive from

Columbia. ·
Early Summer brings the trout season and warm, cloudless days.
Fall presents a variety of autumn color such as is seldom seen in
other parts of California.
Winter finds this region a beautiful gateway to the snow sport
country. Roads are kept in excellent condition the year around.
Thus, at any time of the year, it is an ideal destination for Lodge
pilgrimages.
Excellent accommodations are to be had in Sonora and vicinity.
The Grand Lodge Columbia Temple Committee will gladly assist in
your planning.
We urge you to seriously consider the possibility o1 visiting Columbia Temple and the Mother Lode country-the site of so much of
California's early Masonic history.
Enclosed is an information sheet which you may find of use for
your future planning and guidance.
ARTHUR M. WARREN

Grand Master
Attest:

97

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

July 20, 1953

To the Lodges of the Jurisdiction:
The Grand Lodge of California maintains Clubhouses at the Berkeley and Los Angeles campuses of the University of California for the
use of students in regular attendance at these Universities.
Membership is open both to men and women who are closely
related to members of the Masonic Frate~!ty.
The expense of operating and maintaining these facilities is home
entirely by the Grand Lodge. The club organization charges only
nominal dues, which are used to defray the cost of dances, dinners and
social events organized and sponsored by the students.
In addition to the fine association with young people from Masonic
families and with faculty members who belong to the fraternity, there
are many other practical advantages to be derived. Facilities include
a library, study room, typewriters, and adding machines. Many recreational advantages are also provided such as pool and ping pong tables,
ftnl\ dance Boors, stages for the production of amateur theatrical programs, card rooms, television and radio rooms, and kitchen facilities.
It is my desire that every Mason in California be aware of all of our
supported activities, namely, the Covina Home for Children, the Decoto
Home for the Aged, and the Clubhouses for students at our Universities. I, therefore, direct that this communication be read in every
Lodge in the jurisdiction and I further request that suitable publicity
be given through the several Lodge bulletins. I urge that visitations
by the Brethren to these facilities be made at every opportunity. For
information write to: ,
Masonic Club (UC)
2590 Bancroft Way
Berkeley, California

LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

Masonic Club (UCLA)
10886 Le Conte
Los Angeles 24, California
ARTHUR M. WARREN
Grand Master
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

CALIFORNIA
GRAND LODGE OP

TH E
PROCEEDINGS OP

98

PR O CL A M

ched
to da y the stru~:s erea
In ou r troubled world
tru ly gr ate fu l ~or th e
be
all
a~
:~
e:
fr
d
an
.
ry
ve
sla
ly in free
da rk ne ss an d light,
mon ou r people. On
o~
sc
ID
s
ow
gr
e
An d as this str ug gl
age. wisdom an d un de r:
ur
c~
~e
~
:~I
r;;
tbp
tha
t
en
nm
he willed it so.
de pt h of enlighte
er e to e
men an d women is th
unded so wisely an d
cause t y hers fo
be
e
fre
e
ar
ey
th
r
fo
th is !~­
standing,
Is th e vt ty lamp of
"
~':
prov1 e
ich
ll
wh
wi
ol
Th e Public Schort of our na ion. ~d M as on ry ag ain
observk
pa
ee
ral
W
eg
ols
made an int
p blic Scho .
.
I
g
dm
ten
ed
uir
req
ps it
a u
nu
Like all lam
an
th
d
34
d
ire
sp
ID
m Its ow n
h
d di ct ·
ug
ro
th
ance.
r~li.c Schools W ee k April 27th
laimsean
e, proc
reforLo
Pu
e
I, the
rv
dges ob
Th at all
sta ted meetings
. th at week except ee k observance:
:
W
53
19
ols
ho
· M ay 2nd,
held dufrmgp blic Sc
to
Th at no me. etingds be tings or u
tat ed meeting prior
h
e
me
s
an
c
ea
rem
at
the
th at fall this proclamati·on be re ad
Th at
ril
Ap 27, 1953.
~ , Jan ua ry 26, 1953.
co
Da ted at Sa n Francis

To

PR O CL A M A TI O N

RA N D M A ST ER
A TI O N BY TH E G

..
blic Schools W ee k
34 th Observance of Pu
u:
' rnia an d Hawa s of
..ical'fo
d s an d Brethren o, l between the force
the Masters, War: en
a critical point.

!ITt::•

;;;~are

At tes t:
N
LLOYD E. W IL SO

Gr an d Secretary

AR TH UR M . WA

RR EN

Gr an d M ut er

99

Masonic Honies En do

wn ie nt M on th

lifornia
M as on ic Homes of Ca as se t.
the
r
fo
nd
Fu
t
en
In 1910 the En do wm rp etu ate California M as on ry 's gr ea tes t
an d pe
s
wa created to fo ste r
upon to give a
risdiction ar e ca11edBrotherly Love,
Ju
r
ou
of
s
on
as
M
Ea ch ye ar the
f in th e tenets of
tra. tion of their belie
nsity
mo
de
e
ret
nc
co
ar
Relief an d Ch
nftdence
iples an d with fuJJ co
inc
pr
se
the
to
n
tio
vo
Because of ou r dell he generous,
th at ou r response wi
M as on ic
of M ay , 1953, is to he
nth
mo
the
at
th
m
lai
W e he re by proc
nd M on th.
Homes En do wm en t Fu
.
at:
W e he re by direct th
n at lea st on e
ar ra ng e for an d pla
n
tio
dic
ris
Ju
e
th
s
in
of thi wo rth y pr~
1. AJJ Lodges
ren with the purpose
eth
br
e
th
t
ain
qu
ac
eti.ng to
meam
gr
ed un de r the
each Ho me he ar ra ng
to
n
tio
ita
vis
,
ble
ssi
e.
2. W he re po
auspices of each Lodg
e principle
used in or de r th at th
be
d
tho
me
re
su
es
3. No drive or pration he preserved.
of vo lun tar y particip
program.
<Jge to expedite this
Lo
ch
ea
in
ed
rm
fo
i. A Committee be
St ate d meetth e Ap ril an d M ay
at
ad
re
be
to
ne.
is
ter
on
Th is Proclamati he r meetings as the M as ter s shaU de mi
ot
ch
su
at
ings, an d
53
Da ted : Marc.h 15, 19
At tes t:
LLOYD E. W IL SO

N

Gr an d Se cr eta ry

AR TH UR M. WA

RR EN

Gr an d M ut er

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CONS TITUT ION MONT H OBSER VANC E

The pages headed "Faith in God," "Faith in Ourselves," "Faith in
Our Fellow Men," "Faith in Freedom," are for the other four members
of the panel and presented in the order named. It would, of course, be
preferable if the material were memorized for presentation. We feel,
however, that a very satisfactory presentation could be made with the
panel reading the parts providing they so familiarize themselves with the
subject matter that they could read effectively.
It occurs to us that discussion following the program might well ·be
encouraged and having the subject matter in mind the panel members
could be the leaders in that also.
to
~e time between the observance and Grand Lodge, in which
reporte
facilitat
To
limited.
very
is
tee,
compile the report of the commit
ing, we have prepared the enclosed envelope form. Simply enter the
report ?n the inside flap, seal and mail. Your cooperation will be greatly
appreciated.
If any additional information is desired, please feel free to write or
see the member of this Committee nearest you.

To the Masters of the Lodges of this Jurisdiction
Worshi pful Sir and Brother:
Now that you have successfully completed your "Public Schools
Week" and "Homes Endowment Month" programs we hope that you
are ready to tum your attention to plans for the Seventeenth Annual
Observance of Constitution Month.
It has seemed to the members of this Committee that a new approach
to this observance is indicated. One which will focus our attention upon
the opening words of the great document, "WE THE PEOPL E" and
give added meaning to those so familiar words which we add~ess to o_ur
Candidates, "As a Citizen you are enjoined to be exemplary m the dis.
charge of your civil duties."
With these thoughts in mind we offer a program, adapted from an
address by W. G. Vollmer, President of the Texa~ and Paci.Be -~ilway
Company, which can be presented in each Lodge m this junsdicbon by
a panel of flve members of the Lodge. The Theme,
TO RENE W THE SPIRIT THAT BUILT OUR COUN TRY
'
Have Faith - In God
In Ourselves
In Our Fellow Men
In Freedom
The program material, enclosed herewith, is designed so that it may
be presented at the September Stated Meeting or at a. Special M~ting
as you may elect. If it is present ed at the Stated Meeting no additional
program will be necessary. If present~d at a Special Mee~ng so~e
additional features would be advisable smce the set program will require
just under thirty minutes.
For the moment, we want you and your Committee Chairman to give
serious consideration to the selection of a panel of ftve members preferably of demonstrated civic mindedness, whose duty it will be to present
the program.
The material enclosed consists of seven pages which we suggest be
·
used as follows:
may be posted_ on Y?ur Bulletin Board and
page
The separate cover
the members if desired.
to
notices
of
basis
used as the
Two pages, heac;led "Our Four Great Faiths," are for the Leader or
Chairman of the Panel. The first one to open the program and the second
to follow after presentation of the "Four Faiths."

101

Fraternally,
RALPH

Approved:
ARTHU R M. WARRE N

Grand Master
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

c. HINE

For the Committee

102

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

HOMES
REP ORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE MAS ONIC
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

ith prese nt
The Trust ees of the Maso nic Home s of Califo rnia herew
togeth er
1953,
31',
July
g
endin
the Sixty-first Annu al Report, for the year
financial
the
and
s
Home
our
of
ents
with the repor ts of the Super intend
tary.
Secre
and
repor ts of the Treas urer
the purpose of
The Board of Trust ees met on Nove mber 8, 1952, for
d Maste r.
Gran
ty
Depu
Jr.,
ell.
Harw
Frank
organ izatio n. The election of
r V. Stewa rt, Jr..
Henr y C. Clausen, Senior Gran d Ward en, and Edga
. On motion
Junior Grand Ward en, was formerly repor ted to the Board
_e rs of the
memb
d
electe
duly made, seconded and carrie d they were
Board.
d Maste r, of
The Secre tary repor ted the appointment, by the Gran
a term of
for
Board
the
to
Smith
E.
n
Myro
Chas. Alber t Adam s and
d they
carrie
and
three years each. On motion duly made, secon ded
·
were elected members of the Board.
Senio r and.J unior Grand
r,
Maste
Grand
ty
Depu
In additi on to the
ees:
Ward ens, the Board is composed of the following Trust
E. Ande rson
Leo
...
.........
.........
.........
.1953
..
Charl es M. Wolle nberg .........
H. Head
Ralph
.....
.........
.........
.........
.1954
L. Haro ld Ande rson ---···- ···---Smith
E.
n
Myro
...
.........
.........
.........
1955
.........
......••.
s
Chas. Alber t Adam
Wolle nburg
On motion duly made, secon d and carried Charl es M.
.
Board
the
of
was elected Presid ent
rd Gross was
· On motion duly made, seconded and carrie d Leona
electe d Vice- Presid ent of the Board.
Gran d Lodge,
By virtue of his office as Gran d Treas urer of the
Keesling is
V.
is
Franc
er
Mast
d
Gran
F. & A.M. of California, Past
Treas urer of the Maso nic Home s of Califo rnia.
Gran d Lodge,
By virtue of his office as Grand Secre tary of the
n is secreWilso
E.
Lloyd
r
Maste
F. & A.M. of California, Past Grand
rnia.
Califo
of
tary of the Maso nic Homes
of the Board,
On Febru ary 25, 1953, Leona rd Gross, Vice- Presid ent
M. Warr en,
r
died at his home in Downey, California, and M. W. Arthu
ctor of
Inspe
rson,
Ande
Gran d Maste r, appoi nted Wors hipfu l Leo E.
secmade,
duly
n
motio
On
Distri ct No. 528, to fill the unexp ired term.
rd
Leona
vice
Board
the
of
er
memb
a
d
onded and carried he was electe
Gross , deceased.
e of CaliIn the passing of Broth er Leona rd Gross the Gran d Lodg
ular,
partic
in
rnia
fornia in general. and the Maso nic Homes of Califo
st
intere
ular
partic
The
r.
lost a devot ed and excee dingly capab le worke
are
who
en
childr
the
and
a
Covin
at
of Broth er Gross was in the Home
in the operations
there. His labors in their behal f will long be reflected
by the Board of
of that Home. A suitable Resolution was adopt ed
, Mae Gross.
widow
Trust ees and an engro ssed copy thereo f sent to his

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

103

GENE RAL

for the Aged at
· Super intend ent James R. Euban ks, of the Home
for Child ren
Home
the
of
,
Decoto, and Super intend ent Robe rt M. Henry
urges all
Board
the
and
t
repor
ed
at Covina, have each prepa red a detail
them.
read
lly
carefu
to
members of the Frate rnity
has been
In spite of all the Board might hope to the contr ary, there
same
The
s.
Home
no decre ase in the spiraling costs of operation at both
the
in
ted
·reflec
are
which
increasing costs of food, materials and labor
at
Home
the
to
ly
equal
apply
homes of individuals throu ghout the State
that
n
opinio
the
of
is
Board
The
o.
Covina and to the Home at Decot
rly cared for
the Frate rnity wishes our guests at both these Homes prope
time, resame
and is making every effort to accomplish this and, at the
duce opera ting costs.
ue to come
Applications for admission to the Home at Decoto contin
. It i~
years
al
sever
past
the
for
at about the rate which has prevailed
at ar.
Home
the
ng
enteri
are
ants
applic
the
noticeable, however, that
on
Pensi
State
older age. This is proba bly due to a slightly increa sed
ascan
s
friend
and the fact that in these prosperous times relatives and
for.
hereto
le
possib
been
sist in maintaining them at later ages than has
there have been
It is also true that there are today more old people than
.
period
at any previous
still not very
The number of applic ants for the Home at Covin a is
again, is
This,
great and is not showing any prese nt sign of increase.
possible
it
g
makin
probably due to the prosp erity which is in the land,
supately
adequ
not
are
who
for relatives or friends to care for children
dead.
are
ts
paren
whose
or
ported by their own paren ts,
rn to your
The prope r care of the aged senile is a matte r of conce
give conmust
we
,
future
t
distan
not
the
in
that,
Board. It appea rs
perthose
of
care
sideration to supplying a facility to provide custodial
.
others
or
sons who are n~t dange rous to themselves
BUILD ING 0PERA TION S-DEC OTO

at Decoto
There have been many improvements made to the Home ble that
desira
highly
d
deeme
been
s
alway
has
It
dUring the past year.
ent, rather than
there shoul d be a separ ate residence for the Super intend
g the past year
Durin
the apartm ent in the main Admi nistra tion Building.
leted.
comp
an adequ ate residence has been
as the water
The boiler plant has been completely overhauled as well
tanks.
that work is
The hospital rooms must be sound proof ed and
modernizaneed
ors
-tem plate d during the coming year. The elevat
the next
of
end
the
e
befor
tfon, and it is plann ed to complete that work .
ft seal year.
a tenan t is now
bdn.The land formerly leased for farming purposes to
These are used
.
cattle
of
g
grazin
the
for
itself
f g used by the Home
or food at the Home at Decoto.

J()f

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

MEDICAL ACTIVITI ES POR RESIDENT S OP THE DEcoTo HoME

Rq,ort of Superin tendent -Decoto Home

In January, 1952, the Board entered into an agreement with the Palo
Alto Clinic for twenty-f our hour medical coverage for any acute or
emergency illness at the Decoto Home. In addition, regular office hours
are held at the Masonic Home daily, Monday through Friday, by a
physician member of the Palo Alto Clinic staff.
The entire facilities of the Palo Alto Clinic, as a diagnostic unit,
have been made available to the residents of the Home, and the services
of the Palo Alto Clinic staff are available and utilized for any indicated
hospitalization or operative procedure. Any patient needing hospital
care uses the facilities of the Palo Alto Hospital.
The plan has continued quite satisfactorily during the year since its
inauguration. The Palo Alto Clinic representatives have been cooperative in endeavoring to reduce hospital expense which; during the past
year, has been considerable.
BUILDING OPERAT IONS-CO VINA

The usual maintenance and rehabilitation program has been carried
out during the year, including painting of some buildings and the resurfaci~g of roads.
MOTION PICTURE

The Masonic Homes Endowment Board have reported that the motion picture "The Extende d Compass" has now been completed, and
prints of it are available for showing by the Lodges througho ut the State.
PENSION PROGRAM

For the past three years the Trustees have made an exhaustive study
of various retirement programs fot the employees of the two Homes.
Surveys have been made as to the desires and wishes of the employees,
and a number of consultations have been held with actuarial ftrms. A
&nal program has been given tentative approval and is expected to be
placed in operation not later than January 1, 1954. The plan provides for
a monthly retirement allowance, based upon longevity and salary, and
coincides with similar programs adopted by private industry.
We re~ommend the continuation of the present 75c per capita tax.
CHARLES M. WoLLEN BERG, President
MYRON E. SMITH, Vice Presiden t
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS

LEO E. ANDERSO N
L. HAROLD ANDERSO N
HENRY

c. CLAUSEN

FRANK HARWEL L, JR.

RA'LPH H. HEAD
EDGAR

v. STEWART. Ja.

105

To the Board of Trustees . of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethern: Another year has drawn to a close and again it is my duty
and pleasure to submit, for your consideration, an accounting of my
stewardship for the fiscal year ending July 31st. 1953.
.
The population of the Home on August 1st, 1952 was 114 men and
174 women, a total of 288. Thirty-t wo women average age 79.03, and
26 men average age 78.37 were admitted during the year. During the
same period 23 women, average age 83.43, and 25 men, average age
82.72, passed away, and 2 women and 4 men were withdrawn, leaving
at the end of the year 111 men and 181 women, a total of 2.92. "7'ho are
enjoying the comforts and benefits of the Home. Included m this number are 11 married couples.
Age groups
Women
·Men
15
Between 60 and 70...... ·-··················· 13
70 and 80............................ 39
68
80 and 90•.•.•...... ~ ....... - ...·-· 52
80
90 and 100............-............ 7
18

111
181
Average age .. ;:,,..... :...........:........ ,..............79.49
79.83
As a result of the advanced age of the members of the home, which
is indicated above. and the infirmities common to that age group. our
h~spital facilities have been taxed to full cap~city a goo~ portion of the
past year. At present 59 are being cared form the hospital proper, and
13 women and 11 men are being cared for on the 1st and 4th floor east,
which serves as an annex to the hospital.
, The attending physician, who comes from the Pal.o.Alto Clinic, uiakes
rounds in the hospital 5 days a week. On these v1s1ts the doctor prescribes and orders treatment for those confined to the hospital. Members
who have just arrived at the Home are examined and advice is given any
member of the Home who calls at the hospital for medical advice.
Miss Bess Payne. Superint endent of Nurses, with the assistance of
her staff of very efficient aids, has the responsibility of carrying o~t the
doctor's orders. Needless to say. those orders are carried out to the
minutest detail. ·
Every effort is being made on the part of our matron, Mrs. Esther
Esseiva, to create a home-like atmosphere and harmony and contentment among the members of our large Masonic family.
'
We are quite sure a visit to .the Home would convince you that her
efforts are not in vain.
Under the able supervision of Paul Shipman, Assistan t Superintendent of the Home, many projects in connection with the farm, garden,
•tock farm, landscaping of the grounds about Superintendents Cottage.

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

addition of sun porch to the cottage and alterations to the main office,
were developed and the work on most of the projects has been completed.
The heads of the other four important departments , Accounting,
Commissary, Cullinary and Devotional, Edward C. Hildebrand, Paul F.
Reichert, William B. Emmal, and the Reverend Cecil Rhoades, are rendering outstanding service in their respective departments .
It is interesting to note that since the Home was opened in 1899, 692
women and 1191 men have been admitted. Of that number 708 are interred in the Home Plot. The remaining number of those who were admitted, with the exception of the 292 in the Home at present, were returned to their Lodges for interment or were withdrawn by the lodge.
Our guest register indicates that 343 Lodges in this jurisdiction and
29 Lodges in foreign jurisdictions are represented in the 2986 visitors
who signed the register during the past year. The Canal Zone, Canada,
Portugal and Nova Scotia are among those represented . Since terminating the lease on our pasture land in October 1951, we have developed
quite a stock farm here at the Home, as the following figures indicate.
Cattle, young and old, 66 head; hogs, young and old, 72 head.
Many very fine programs have been brought to the Home during the
year by the Lodges, Eastern Star Chapters and friends, for the entertainment of the Home family.
The members of the Home have also developed and presented several vei'y fine programs for their own enjoyment. We believe the most
outstanding of those programs was that presented to the East Bay Past
Matrons' Association, who visited the Home on August 16, 1952. On
that occasion, Mrs. Lillian Schreiber and members of the Association,
held a reception for Mrs. Helen Bell DeBeers, Grand Matron, presented
a very fine program and delivered to the Hcime a generous supply of
jams, jellies and canned fruit and juices.
President L. E. Dayton with the officers of the East Bay Masters'
and Wardens' . Association, together with a large group of brethren,
visited the Home on August 19, 1952 and presented an interesting and
·
entertaining program.
A very fine program was developed by Mrs. Loretta Hyman under
the guidance of our Matron, Mrs. Esseiva, and presented on the occasion
of Grand Master Louis C. Drapeau's official visit to the Home on June
11, 1952.
Our library, where the literary inclined members of the Home spend
many pleasurable hours, is well stocked with fine books, daily papers
and magazines. The Masonic Hill Branch of the Alameda County Library enables the members of the Home to obtain many of the latest
books and an opportunity to secure special ones.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

107

In conclusion, I wish to express my sincere thanks to the staff and

employees whose earnest efforts have been a factor in maintaining a
high standard in the several departments of the Home, and to express to
the Board of Trustees my sincere gratitude for their friendly advice and
.
the support they have at all times given me.

J. R. EUBANKS, Superintendent.

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of the Superintendent-Covina Home
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with a great deal of pleasure and gratitude that I present my
fifth annual report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children
at Covina, for the year ending July 31, 1953.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

As of July 31, 1953, the population of our Masonic Home Family
numbers sixty-four. Twenty-eight girls and thirty-six boys. An increase
of two over the preceding year. During the ftscal year of 1952-53 seven
boys and one girl have been admitted to the Home, including three boys
who were readmitted. Four boys and two girls left us during the year;
one by graduation: three who returned to re-established homes of their
parents, and one who is now on Outside Relief. Our one graduate,
Lorraine Bowman, will continue her education at the University of
Redlands and will major in sociology. Six boys and five ijirls will enter
High School this year.

Family Status
Orphans
H/0 Fathers Llving
H/O Mothers Living
Both Parents Llving
One Parent, One Stepparent

Children
5
5
14
30

Families
3
4

10

11
18

5

Family relationship within the Home consists of the following: One
family of four children, four families of three children each: twelve
families of two thildren each: twenty-four families of one child. Of
the sixty-four children, twenty-five are in Covina High School, thirtynine in Charter Oak and Covina Grammar Schools. Eleven children,
representing seven families, are in the Home under membership of the
grandparent. Total number of Lodges having wards in the Home-thirty-nine, from forty-one families.
HOME, SCHOOL, AND COMMUNITY ACTMTIES

Children of the Covina Home presented a program at the May
meeting of the Los Angeles Board of Relief. Our older girls and boys
are active members of Bethel No. 98, Order of Job's Daughters and
George Washington Chapter, Order of DeMolay. Patricia Allison,
class of '54, is Senior Princess of Bethel No. 98. The children have
participated .fully in activities of Covina High School and Charter Oak
and Covina Grammar Schools. They have successfully represented
the Home in social and service clubs, athletic competition, and scholastic

109

honors. The senior boys have enjoyed week-ends camping and fishing
expeditions, while the younger camping enthusiasts have "campouts"
whenever they request them. Children's Guest Days are popular among
the members of our Home Family and children of the community: picnics;
barbecues, swim parties, and dances _are planned for the children and
by the children themselves; they are encouraged to invite their school
friends to visit for a day, a night, or a week-end. Each child is given
the opportunity of receiving instruction in piano, group singing, ceramics,
ballet, or woodcraft. A well equipped woodshop is in operation, where
our. boys learn "to do by doing" ·under- a competent instructor. The
above, in conjunction with our all-around, supervised recreational program, occupies most of the children's free time, and as a result, our boys
and girls are busy and ·happy young people. As has always been our
policy, the members of our Home Family attend the church and Sunday
school of their choice.
IMPROVEMENT PROGRA_M

Several acres of waste land have been reclaimed as permanent pasture and the installment of a sprinkler system now makes possible green
feed for our livestock throughout the year. The old pigpens have been
replaced by modern structures, making the work of our 4-H Club easier
and far more efficient. Part of our long range plan for resurfacing the
roads has been achieved. The barbecue area equipment has been increased to provide picnic facilities for approximately four hundred
Visitors, and two rest rooms, with complete facilities, were built adjacent
to the picnic grounds. In the basement of the Junior Boys' Buildfng, a
storeroom was converted into a Woodworking Hobby Shop, with the
installment of essential machinery and tools. This is a supervised activity
in our boys' program. The Intermediate Boys' entire dormitory has been
painted and a new dormitory opened for the care of our smallest ·boys.
During the coming fiscal year. we ·hope to complete the Junior Boys'
Gymnasium, which is already well under way.
SUMMER PROGRAM

Our program of activities for the children's summer· vacation included four camping periods from July 1 to August 21. A special feature
of the Senior Boys' camping experience in the Yosemite Valley was a
~-da~ saddle trip into the High Sierra, camping one night each at
osem1te Valley, May Lake, Glen Aulin, Tuolumne Meadows, Vogellang, and Merced Lake. The Junior boys and girls camped for two weeks ,
11t Wrightwood, California. This area provided a mountain setting, with
a supervised, privately owned lake. Hiking, swimming, and handicrafts
Mere part of the daily program: This camp was under the supervision of
rs. Robert M. Henry, assisted by a trained and competent staff. InterDlediate and Junior Intermediate boys joumeyed to Lake Tahoe, using

110

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Bay View Park, in U. S. Forest Departme nt, as a base camp. The boys
"packed in" above Emerald Bay to the Velma Lake Region in the
Desolated Valley Area. Hunting, swimming, .fishing, and nature study,
were among the camp activities. A camping trip consisting of a tour of
State and National Parks and other points of interest was enjoyed by
our Senior and Intermedi ate girls. Two nights and one day were spent
at the following stops: Hoover Dam, Salt Lake, Tipanoga s Caves, Zion
National Park, Bryce National Park, Grand Canyon, and visits were
made to Montezum a Castle, Cliff Dwellers of Arizona, and the Indian
Ceremonials held at Flagstaff, Arizona. Providing an entirely new
atmospher e in camping periods pays big dividends in renewed health
and vigor. The children learn to live harmoniously with one another
und~ conditions essentially different from their Home routine, and to
accept camping responsibilities with good sportsman ship. Thete tripa
are formulated primarily on their educational value and secondarily on
the recreation al aspect.
HEALTH AND WELFARE PROGRAM

This has been a good year for our health and welfare program. We
report for surgery, eight tonsillectomies and one appendectomy. In
childhood diseases we have had twenty-tw o cases of measles, nine cases
of chickenpox, and ten cases of mumps. Dr. W . P. Magan and his
associates have been untiring in their help and guidance toward maintaining, as nearly as possible, the perfect health of every child. At six
months' intervals each child received a complete physical examination:
the results of these examinations were carefully recorded to serve as a
guide toward the attainmen t and maintenan ce of good health. Dr.
Ellwood Laine, our visiting dentist for several years, was recalled to
the Armed Services, but were were fortunate indeed in securing the
services of Dr. Elmer King, an alumnus of the Covina Home. Periodic
dental examinations and subsequen t correction and treatment, are an
important part of our health program. Eleven children received orthodontia treatment s from Dr. Townsend Paul, Pasadena. One hundred
and twenty orthodont ia treatments for these children are recorded.
Thirty-on e children under the care of Dr. Wayne D. Kuetell, Optometri~t. were given opthalmic examinati ons and visual training treatments .
Every child received booster shots twice during the year, giving immunization against smallpox, diphtheria , tetanus, and pertussis. Three
hundred and seventy-fo ur children were admitted to our Home hospital.
with a total of seven hundred and forty-four hospital days. Three
thousand, one hundred, seventeen Home Hospital Clinic treatments
were administered. To Dr. W. P. Magan and ·his associate doctors, to
Dr. Elmer King, to Mrs. Hetty Fair6eld, our nurse, and to our staff of
housepare nts, we tender our most sincere gratitude and appreciation for
their constant vigilance in behalf of our children's health and welfare.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

'111

FARM AND MASONIC PIONEERS i-H CLUB

Our Intermedi ate boys and girls, who compose the Masonic Pioneers
i-H Club, have made definite progress in their program of raising high
grade livestock f(!r breeding purposes, and meat for the Home Family.
On April 12, 1953, the Southern California Beef Cattle Tour, sponsored
by the Western Livestock Journal. visited the Home as guests of the
Masonic Pioneers i-H Club, when the children displayed their registered
Hereford herd and registered Duroc Swine herd, both herds destined.
in time,' to furnish us with meat. At the Twenty-S econd Annual San
Gabriel Valley i-H Club Fair, held at Pomona May 2 and 3, the exhibits
of ·our 4-H Oub were awarded flfteen flrst premiums, eight second
premiums, and one flfth premium. We anticipate entering a portion of
our Hereford breeding herd and Duroc Jersey Swine herd in the Los
Angeles County Pair in September, We ·have been able, not only to
supply the f.rah pork, beef, ham, and bacon for our Home Family, but
have sent a number of <>Ur beef animals to the Decato Home. For the
past flscal year the Covina Home has produced and consumed, in live
weight, 12,190 pounds of beef. 9,429 pounds of pork, and 650 pounds
of lamb.

ENTERTAI NMENT

Children and staff of the Covina Home were special guests at the
Annual Barbecue Picnic given .by the 380th Masonic Club of Huntington Beach Lodge No.380, F.&A.M. We continue to receive feature and
comedy films for our weekly movie programs through the kindness and
generosity of six major studios-C olumbia Pictures Corporati on, Loew's
Incorporated. RKO Radio Pictures Incorporated, Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporati on, Universal Film Exchange s Incorporated,
and Warne~ Brothers Pict~res Incorporated. Delivery and pkkup of
these films 1s through the courtesy of Bliss Film Delivery, Alhambra,
C~lifornia . Our fri~nds of Al Malaikah Temple provided tickets ·for the
children and staff to enjoy the Shrine High School Football Classic and
Pageant; the Rexall Drug Company (Los Angeles) was host to our
childr~n at the 1952 Sheriff's Annual World Champion ship Rodeo: and
the children were guests of the American Legion West Covina Post No.
790 at the Veterans Remembrance Club Entertainm ent. Twice during
the year the Transport ation Crippled Children's Club has put on an
excellent variety show at the Home; and Bethel No. 211, Order of Job's
Daughters , assisted by Bethel No. 110 and the North Hollywood Rain·
rw Assembly and DeMolay . presented an evening of entertainm ent
or the children and staff. Every member of our Covina Home Family
Joined in the fun of a costumed Halloween Party. Spaced through the
Year were picnics, beach trips, roller skating and theatre parties, camp-

112

11.3

PROCBEDl.,GS OP THB

GRAND L01'GB OP tALIPORNIA

outs, and overnight fishing trips. Activities were designed for a combina..
tion of education and fun, such as Griffith Park Zoo, Los Angeles Inter..
national Air Fair, and the Long Beach Naval Dock, where the boys
visited the British Destroyer "Sheffield" and U. S. Submarine "SworciJlsh." All children of the Home, accompanied by their houseparents,
attended the Los Angeles County Fair at Pomona. Due to the mild
winter weather only one weekend of snow sports was enjoyed by the
boys and girls. Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner Lodge No. 607
gave their Thirtieth Annual Christmas . Party at Monrovia Masonic
Temple for the children of the Home; this was followed by the Ninth
Annual Christmas Party given by Carmelita Lodge No. 599 in our
dining room. Christmas activities were climaxed by Southern Members
of the Board of Trustees and their families and a number of our graduates now serving in various branches of the Armed Forces. At the
National Orange Show at San Bernardino the children and staff were
again guests of the San Bernardino Santa Fe Masonic Club. Mr. Ralph
Head, member of the Board of Trustees, and Mrs. Head, entertained
our Senior girls' group at their North Hollywood home, honoring Lorraine Bowman, our 1953 graduate.

Alumni Dinner was held in San 'Frant:isco on October 11, 1952. Mr.
Charles M. Wollenberg and Mr. Cha+les Albert Adam~, Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California were, with Mrs. Wollenberg, honored
guests of this occasion. An invitation -to the Covina Home Reunion was
sent to every active Alumnus, and Alumni living in the San Francisco
area received invitations to the San Francisco Reunion Dinner. Newsletter No. 27, combining a resume of the year's activities at the Covina ·
Home and a department devoted exclusively to Alumni, was sent to all
active Alumni in the United States and to those in the Armed Services;
to Lodges currently sponsoring a child in the Home; and to Lodges or
members of the Fraternity requesting a Newsletter.
In· conclusion, may I express the appreciation, not only of myself,
but of our entire Home Family• .for the services and opportunities extended to the children of the Brethren in this true exemplification of
Masonic prindple.

Respectfully submitted.
ROBERT M. HBNRY,

Superintendent

VISITATIONS

We have welcomed to our Home a total of S.ve thousand, six hundred
and seventy-six members of the Craft, their families and friends. during
the year and from whom we received inspiration and encouragement.
This is an increase of four hundred and sixty-nine over the previous
year. During the past two years there has been a decided increase in
visitations by members of the Order of Job's Daughters and Order of
the Rainbow for Girls. We are deeply grateful for the sincere interest
in the welfare of our children and cordially invite all members of the
Fraternity to visit their boys and girls and learn. from the children ·
themselves, of their training, of their interests and projects, and above
all, their happiness in being part of our Big Family. Donations brought
and sent to the home ~y members of the Fraternity have been sincerely
appreciated.
ALUMNI OF THE CovrNA HoMB

The halls of the Covina Home reverberated with happy laughter on
September 27, 1952, as approximately three hundred of the Alumni
gathered with their wives, husbands. sweethearts and friends to re-live
. for a day, episodes of their childhood. Under the pepper trees at the
barbecue area the Alumni assembled for a .picnic lunch, exchanging
reminiscences of long ago, but which on this Home-Coming Day served
to draw them closer together as part of the Masonic Home Family. Our
spacious swimming pool. reserved for the exclusive use of Alumni anq
their families, was enjoyed to the utmost after lunch. The Covina Home

Referred to Committee on Finan~e.

lH

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF

METHODS
Your Endowment Board has continued to follow the educational
pattern that was set many years ago. Our aim has been to educate the
Brethern. and give them an opportunity to participate in this, our one
over all Charity. The use of the written word continues to be very help~
ful. This year, we have distributed the amazing number of 96,9~0 P.a~~
phlets·, telling the story of our two great H~mes. Letters and 1nqumes
have been answered promptly, and all possrble means have been used
to give the Brethem interested all possible info.rmation about our Pro~
gram. Every member of the Board has the responsibility of a certain
number of Inspectorial Districts. These areas have their special tel>-'
resentatives, either the lnspecior, or one duly appointed or suggested by
him to ·represent that area. Such a Program has made it possible for ua
to get more personal touch with the members of the Craft. Perhaps the
greatest accomplishment during the past year. has been the release of
our new 16mm. Kodachrome sound picture. This tells the story of the
Homes in a vivid and appealing manner. Sufficient Masonic history is
revealed in the picture, to make it particularly interesting to all Masons
in California. Although we have a liinited number of copies of the pie~
ture, we are distributing it by request, and complying with such requests in a most satisfactory manner. We urge all Lodges to take advantage of this picture.

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWME NT BOARD
19S3
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board takes pleasure in present~
ing herewith its 21st Annual Report, covering the period from August
1, 1952, to July 31, 1953, inclusive.
·
Tbe Badowment Board wu created by CcmstJtutional ·Amaulma.t
fa l 933. ad comfats of lfteat. memlten. Penonnel of the praent Board
i.ufollow1:
·

1953
EJlNUT G. L\IHOJt
CYRIL L. WBEJCS
IRA D. WHEELER
LESTER A. PRICE
NORBERT MIXER

115

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1954

1955

BDMUQ A, LOCKBTT
CLOVIS ] • ROBOT
BYRON COLEMAN
LEONARD R. AVILLA
RUE W. SIMS

OJlNO L TYLD
HARRY A. NAUMAN, JR.
JOHN M: GORDON
JOHN KAHLER
MARION A. LOMG

The Offlcer& of the Board are:
ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman
EDMUND A. LocKETT. Vice Chairman (South)
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice Chairman (North)
LLOYD E. WILSON, Secretary
FRANCIS V. KEESUNG, Treasurer
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS, PLUS
It seems like a dream come true. It was only a few years ago until
the members of your Endowment Board were dreaming about an En,
dowment Fund of .6.ve million dollars. It is now a reality. There were
those who felt such a fund would be adequate for our needs.
Such is not the case. Since only the income from this fund is used,
and since the increase of expenses for the upkeep of our Homes has kept
pace with the general economic situation, we are still far short of our
goal. This situation is not disheartening, but still remains the challenge
for the Craft.
Since the adoption of the Prudent Man Rule by Grand Lodge, the
in~ome from our Endowment Fund has increased remarkably, but even
with such an increase, it will be necessary that a much greater sum be
secured before we attain the satisfactory status of knowing that we have
ample Endowment, the income from which will care for our upkeep of
Covina and Decoto.

THE CHALLENGE
The remarkable increase in contributions through the Lodges during
the past year is a greater challenge for the future. The following evidence of increased contributions is significant:
1954
1953
1952
1951
1
$331,112.49
$268,003.68
$241,939.20
The results of the increase from all sources is most interesting:
1951
1952
1953
1954
$388,201,64
$346,898.90
$557,316.40
1
While the above figures are most interesting. we are particularly
pleased with the increase in participation by members. namely in?7??
1951
1952
1953
1954
60,801
. 64,040
72,734
7
In conformity with the above figures, the increase in ~he number of
Honor Lodges is a great satisfaction:
1951
1952
1953
1954
137 Lodges
178 Lodges
260 Lodges
1

116

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MEMORIALS

GRATITUDE
Your Board wishes to express its sincere gratitude to the Most Worshipful Grand Master for his splendid suppo~t throughout the year.
Again we have demonstrated, "as the Grand Master goes, so goes the
Endowment Fund". Our thanks is not limited here,' but extends to all
the Grand Officers who have assisted us materially. the Inspectors who
have shown an unusual interest in our work: not only by their own aid,
but by appointing others who have represented their Districts in supporting the ·Fund Program, and then finally, the Masters and Officers
of the Lodges, and the Committee Chairmen, who have so ably assisted
in this work. To all of these, we say. "Thank you from the bottom of
our hearts". It is your Program, we are your servants, you can be proud
of what you have done. It h~s been a pleasure for every member of the
Board to be of service in this, our great opportunity in caring for those
at Decato and Covina.
We ask your careful consideration of the tabulated figures which
follow, and plead for your continued and devoted interest for the future.
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BoARD
DR. ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman

TESTIMENTARY GIPTS

J.

Bequests have been received as follows, up to July 31. 1953 :
Estate of:
· -·-·-···-··.$
Frederick C. Kedr.···-----....~---·---···--·····~·····----·-···Clara Nelloo..-•.·-·-'···-·-······················-··-······················-···-···-·-·······-··-···-

Henry L. Alves
C C. Aveipeck
f'rederick Body
George W. Boyce
Mrs. Goldie Bridges
Mrs. Rhoda M. Brown
Meyer Buck
Richard P. Butter
Mrs. George Chapman
Gabriel J. Chatvaire
Leona Clinkscale
Annie C. Craven
Eldon Deering
Ralph E. Delaney
J. P. Desmond
Ruth R. Ferguson
Clara E. Fink
Prank P. Flegal
Adelbert D. Frederick
CFreedman
James H. Gillespy
Ju.stin W. Gillette
Homer W. Glidden
J. J. Goodbrake
Blanche E. Hall
Walter H. Hartnack
William Rhodes Hervey
Arnt C. Heidekker
Mark Henry Hitchcock '
Brother Hobbs
Rudolph C. Holmquist, Sr.
Stanley P. Hoxsie
R. Humphreys
Hugh L. Irwin
Leo Kaplan
William Keay
Percy Kerr
John L. Kewish
Mrs. Arvilla Knight
Alice B. Larson
Robert W. Leicester
Michael S. Leshing

26.75

375.00
Catherine Oliver•....................-~.'--·-···-··-··········-···-···-··-··········--·-····-···-- 7,247 .81
Ella G. Pltcalrn.-·········-··-·-···· ·····.-·····-······-·-··-~~·-.·····-··-··--.-.--··- 1,249.12
Wendell P. P°"er-······················· ··----·---··-·····--·-··-·-------···-,...· 7.517.28
547.81
Bertha Sherwood.....•.•...........•..-·······················-·- --·--·--·--·--···--··--·
1,000.00
·-----·
--·--·-····----Whitbl9--··-·······
Randolph
$17,963.77

James W. Long
George W. McCllntock

Joseph A. McMinn
Mrs. Elizabeth Mahon
William J. Massoni
William D. Meyer
Mrs. Jack Monroe
David R. Mulford
Leroy A. Nesbit
Mrs. Dorothy Newman
Rea C. Newman
Jack Nuttall
Olaf A. Pedersen
James P. Powers
Miss Donna Preece
William Purdie
Dr. T. D'Arcy Quinn
Frank D. Radcliffe
Jerome Reynolds
Rayford G. Rich
Edna Cumberland Roberts
Reuben Andrew Root
Jack Ross
James Albert Rudge
Frank Ryan
Arbraham Schapiro
Harry R. Schroeter
Mrs. Eda Singer
H. Powell Sloan
Fred Leroy Smith
Albert Stork
Mrs. Le Verne T. Strow
Alfred J. Thibodeau
Frank Tresselt
Robert H. Trumbllll
Karl F. Tuttle
Walter von Konsky
Helen de la Montanya Vose
Otto A. Waldorf
RoyC. Ward
Morris Wasserman
Seymour L. Watts
Annie Barbara Webster
Sarana Weiner
Juliua F. Wheeler

117

. 118

260 King Solomon's .............................................................................. 488

HONORABLE MENTION

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per member.
(Such contributions were made by 260 Lodges) :
No. . Lodge

119

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Members

California ·····················--···-···················-···················-··············- 548
Tehama ···················-······-··-··-·········-······-·-···-·-·-·-···········-··· 804
La Parfaite Union ..........:...·-···------······-····-··· ····-·---··- 118
Washington ·············-····-··-···-·· ·----·····-···-·······-···· ·- 838
Hawaiian ···--·················-········-········-··-····-·····-····················· 466
El Dorado ························-···-···························--·-························· 268
San Diego·········-······--···-· ·-···-········--···-·--·· ······-··-· 1030
40 Sacramento ··-·····-··--·-···-·- ·-·-----··---······- ·· 759
42 Los Angeles ·-·-······-····-·-··-···--· ··--··-·--·······-·--······ - 769
50 Forbestown ···--····•····-'·-·······-···-······-···----·-···--···········-·-···· 110
58 Union ···························-·--··---········-··-··-···-·-········---·······--··-- 735
61 Live Oak·····---·-···-·-···--·· --·-···-············--·-·····- ···-·····--- 1018
93 St. Helena ········-····-····--- ·-··-·--·-··-·-·-··· -·- 135
95 Henry Clay ··-··-···-··----·-···-··-- ·-·-······--··--···--··--· ·-- 82
99 Yosemite ·-··--···-········--··-······- -············-···-············- ······· 489
106 Arcata .......................:......·-·-····-····-···-·-·······--·········-···--·-······ 324
120 Fidelity ·····-····-·-····--·-·-··-····-------···-·-·-··-·· ··-·-·- 561
128 Visalia ·······--··-----·- --···-·---····--- -··-· 552
131 Woodbridge -·-·········-···-······-····· ·······--···-··----·········· -· 175
143 Franklin ·············-········-·--····-·················-·····--········---·······-······· 136
144 Oriental ·······--···-···············-·- --····--········--····-·····-- ······- 384
149 Lassen ·····---·-·-·-···-···--··-········-··---···-··-~-------··--······ 239
·-··-·-··--·---- ---- 25
164 Harmony -·····---····166 Excelsior ·········--·-·······------·-··········-···-~·-····-···--·-··-- 499
167 Alameda··---··--- --··--·--···--····-···--- --··-·············· 183
168 Redwood Oty ..........: ...·---···-·--····-··--- -·-·····--··· 606
173 Elk Grove·--····:··-···-····· --·-···-····-·····-······-··· -·--·-·······- 137
178 Phoenix ------···----- -----·-··----- --- 671
191 Marin - · - - - · - - · - - ·...........···-·--··---······ ·-·- 549
192 Santa Barbara ·---·······-···-·······-····· ·-··---·--·····-······--···· 347
194 Mountain View -·······-···---·-·-·-· ··-·-···--·-···-····- 345
_ 598
··--··-···
198 Wilmington ...
----------·· 120
200 Truckee-··
202 Penthalpha - - - - · - · · - - - - - - - - - · - - · · · - - - 537
203 Confidence ····--------- ----------··- -- 51
207 Anaheim ···--···--''------- -----·····-·---·-·-···- 443
·-···-·-·--·.-··· 420
209 King David's--···--·
161
--·
211 San Benito--··-212 South San Francisco·-·-·-·····-·· --·-··-······-·-···-···-· ··-· 264
214 San Buenaventura---· -······--··----···---·· ----·-···- 409
215 Oak Grove ···········---·····---···-~---···········-·-·-····-···-··-·-·...:. 629
--·-····---·-·-···-- 615
220 Downey.:...------~--. 163
. _.;. __- .
221 Inyo
1
3
17
20
21
26
35

224. BUerafteld ··------··-·-·--·· ·--·--··-·-··--·-- ····
226 San Mateo ····-·-·--······----·······- -····--···--·······-··-····· --232 Janesville-···-······ --···-···---·-·--·-····- ·-·-··--··-··-236 Hills Ferry ···-·---·-~·-·--------···---237 Guadalupe - · - - - - · - -·· ··-·-·
241 Santa Ana ·-·---·-·······-·· ·-·-·-··--·-···-- -· ·-·242 Magnolia ···-·--··-·-··---------~---···-···243 Eucalyptus ····-···--·---··-··
250 Adin · - · · · - - - - - - 254 Reading

816
544
165
156
168
591
415
468
108
220

Total
$1.154.00
1,928.00
263.00
1,921.50
953.50
1,020.11
2.318.00
l.63950
l,874.00
250.00
1,500.00
2,800.00
275.00
204.00
98850
652.50
1,236.00
1,269.00
352.00
523.00
800.00
594.50
54.00
1,037.25
376.00
1,529.00
28750
l ,362.46
1,138.82
73150
72450
1,24250
394.00
1,753.00
103.50
930.00
841.00
345.00
543.75
1,085.42
1,265.50
l,250.00
394.50
1,691.89
1,68050
334.00
396.00
46350

1,711.50
1,601.00
940.50
264.50
45-t.50

mrf~if=~~~=~==~~~~==~~=-:::~~~ ~

~~j ~~cah1:r~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

··-········· 235
277 Selma ··-··-·········--··----····-···-·--·····-········-··········278 Southern California ...................................................................... 512
279 · Hanford ............................................................................................ 224

~~~ t~t~~~it ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

· 226
287 Winnedumah ·····-···--·-········-··········································--···········
289 Elsinore ............................................................................................ 151

~- 8~~i~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!

m~::antuci"~··::::::::::::::::~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: !~
.

303 Porterville ........................................................................................ 477

~ ~:: M;;~i~;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

309 Delano .............................................................................................. 233
312 Los Banos .........................................................................-............ 155

~~g ~:;ba~at;··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~!
~i~ ~~1:iie~r~_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
125

329 Vallee de France ............................................................................
330 Kila•ea .............................................................................................. 227

3~~
~~ ~~In;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~
- ............... 1067

335
339
.lt3
.lt6
349

~~~

West Gate ..........................................- .......................
Fullerton ·.......................................................................................... 388
San Fernando .................................................................................. 561
Palo Alto .......................................................................................... 738
Sequoia -f--····-···---···········...---···-------···-·- 1085
~~!:ss::n~...::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

m

~~~ ft!~vP~~ ==············--········-··-·······--·····-···--··--=:=. 4:1

· -·-----·---·----- 315
·---360 San Francisco --·--·
366 Las Palmas -···-····---···---···-- ------·····-;·-··-···- -- 1030
367 South Pasadena ·--····-··--··-·-··--·····- ··-···--·-·-·····----····· 601
368 llmty ··--··--·-···----··- -·····------------- ------- 619
369 Ocean Park----·············-·--··-······-·-·-··················:.......................... 515
'170 Amity -·-----·-···-··-··--- ···-·--------·····--· ------ 450
371 le Proga de L'Oceaale-.........---'-·--······-···-·-··- ·-··- 708

!~ ~:~·::::::::::::::~~=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i!1

383 Oros! --······-·---···---·--· ·---·--·····---- ---··- 147
384 El Centro ·····-···-·····-·-····--- -····-··--··-······-···-- --·- HO

~~ Coalintic········-·······-·-·-············-·············--·········-····--·-············ 398

39-t
'4to
i02
i05
406
iOa

e -·-·-······-------·-· ---:....---·-·---···· ·-· 917
West
University ·············-··-···-·---·-· -········-············-····-·-· ·---- 617

Burlingame ..:....................·--···-----··-·-·-- ··----····- 686
Brawley -···············-·-·-···········-·········-··········-·····--·-··-······-····--· 229
Moneta ·········-··························-·-····--··--··········-············:......... 699
Burbank ··-···--······-··-·-·······-·· ·-·-····-········-···-·····--· ··-··-··· 728
&erra Madre--------- -------·-··--·----·····-··----· 156

1.002.50
388.50
3,283.50
207.00
657.00
l,307.00
1,503.00
484.50
1.511.25
491.00
939.00
138.43
522.49
327.50
. 821.00
552.50
651.00
915.00
358.50
1,000.00
573.20
801.70
535.50
346.50
570.00
1,460.50
1,310.00
839.50
266.00
5'>1.94
207.50
674.00
2,519.50
786.50
1,170.75
1,818.03
2,389.50
1,207.00
1,093.00
971.00
478.00
702.50
2,183.15
1,216.00
1.808.25
1,800.50
900.00
1,420.95
398.50
U03.00
520.50
3-t9.00
880.00
1,100.00
2.121.00
1,331.50
1,378.00
518.50
U18.00
1,541.SO
327.00

120

RNI
GRAND LODGE OP CALIPO

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

838.50
·
-·- --· --- · 406
760.00
··· ·-- --- -····-·
349
···
-·--·
·
..
u
olul
~--409 Hon
1.014.50
---··---···-··-·
414 Arlington •···---···-----· · · --··· ····- -•-, .··-- --··· ···-· ·--·· · 394
961.0S
··
450
415 Silver TrQwel ····-·-·····
360.00
-·-·--··
--~
-·
--·
sian
124
Ely
-·418
456.Si
·-- ··- --- --· -··:__
-··
..
·
-·"
·--·221
··---··~__
·--__
420 Kerman
--·___
···___
1.051.50
····· 497
_~...__
·-·-·
__
--·
····-··
.--ter
___
,
Exe
__
424 Midway -;-· -·-- ··.. :___
340.00
426
- 168
685.50
--·· ···-· ··-·- ··-·· ··-·· -···-..· - ·~ 319
:_··
__.
__
__
as
Dim
San
428
115.00
·-···---·············-····-·
·-··
---·
·~-··-·
··-·
5$
r-··
-·
aste
437 Lanc
50
........... -··---·-··-·~--·
842.
.......
.-....
··..:
-····
·;·-·
··-•..
_
cia
438 Aca
·-· --· ··- ···- .._ 407
50
-··
539.
·······
-··---·
_
·
_:_
. . 331.00
+tl Co ron ado
·-·· ··-· -·-· --- i67
····
-·--···
---··-·
-··
··'"
+43 Schofield -·- --· ·····--··-·-···········~---~···-···-·-··-··-····- 122
1.748.00
852
444 Carpinteria ··-······- -··· ··-· ·-- ·-- ··-· ···· ·-- ·-·· --- -..: 514
' 1.060.00
s --· -·- ··-· ·-- -'· ·-· ·-- --· --· -·:...:._...........
450 Van Nuyqua
595.25
l··· -·- -··
452 San Pas
· --~ 28.f
821.00
--· -·- -·- -·- ···· ···- --- ··410
-"
--453 Betblehelll.. _; ..........: -·.--.·
1.061.18 .
---···-·-·-·-·..-···· ···-- -...5()f
-·~
··454 . Crocker ,.-·--·---·~--·
1,674.25
-·-······----··-·-·---··
·--·· ····- ·-· 672
457 Ramona ...._.:_····902.70
-··· ···- ····· -·-· -·~····"
--··
430
•··-·
e
·~
Orm
-S.
ry
Hen
458
1,253.00
,.-------·
613
-~·
·-'461 Argonaut~---···;
--·
---·716.00
462 Paul Revere __..._;.~...... ~--··-· --- ·-·· ·-·- --- -..: ..-- ·..···- 268 .
720.00
-··-···
:_·
___
358
ta
.
Vis
:...
Alta
-··464
325.32
·:...._:..,.•..•..--· -··· ·-··-·
-·--·-·
City
158
ver
Cul
;....
467
---···-···-·-...
1,190.00
···
-·-·
~--·
da
349
I..W,
ba
-469 Yor
--..!· -- -· -- -521.00
···-·--··---.·····
470 Lincoln ,....,..............-.;..-··. 600.00
···- ···- ··-- ···· ·-- ···- - 239
-······
··-·-·--··
ui-- ·- 292
472 Ma
444.00
-- -·- -·· -- -·; -·- ···
.474 Victory ....-- -- ··- -- - - - - • - - 205 .
9.00
1.43
·
'
.......
-;
····
····
··-47{) Coachella ---···--··--··:....~ 406
2.00
~-··
1,13
-···
-·---··
·
·
n
481 Mt. Davidso
···· ···· --· 370
·-··
00
·-597.
---··
···
--·-···
259
482 Clarence F. Smith ·-- ··- --- ···- --- ·
8.62
1,03
· 510
··- ··- 484 Albert Pike -·- -···-- -·- 378.61
· ··- -·- -·- ... "·--··
--· -·- 126
·-486 Caledonia ··· -··
--···836.()f
.:.·
--·
···-·
·"·
··-399
493 Ata scad ero, -····
----·-··
l,068.64
-··· ···· -··· ···- :-·- --·
··-:
····
n~
526
no
ba
Le
·
495
579.00
·····-·-----. -- · 278
497 Fremont .........- ....:.
--·- :·1.326.42
-"-- "'." .""' -·-· "'.'·
--··
····--·502
-····
-·'.·
-··
ljlCf
--twC
501 Wes
954.55
···· --· ··- ·-- -·- ·-S<>t Sea side .-..: .--- ·-· --- ·--- - · · - - · - - - - - - - - · · - - 476 ·
2,750.50
·
·
·
·
998
·
d
Cor
er
~·
505 Silv
910.00
..--- ···· --- -··- - -·-· -. . 451
506 Mount ~ve ...:......._....,.;..
-··- ·-·- --1.120.83
-·
--·
--·
537
--·
.'..
s.......
_
lm
..
512 Pa
"-'· -·-:......-.,·· ··-·- ;__
640.00
515 Vermont Squ are· ······'·-- :·-801.()f
-··· --:· ·--- -.-- ·....:_ _....., 32.0
····
-···
····
--··
......
:..;:
...
_
.....
398
516 Taf t
···--~ ·
-·7.00 ·
1.80
-:·
-·----·
--·
-·
"'·
519 Eu cli d··-···:--~..---- 900
.75
---;
3<>t
·········
•·-·
·---·-·
···-.··-..
l+t
520 Ironic ...l;i; .;i··.......
5.00
1,05
481
·524 Catalina.
-·-··----~·-·----. 679.00
525 George Washington-·-- ·-- ··- 328
--·
-·
1,113.50
·-·
---.~.."
-·.
··541
-~.r
·-527 Covenant ·---·-~1.055.00
-·-···-··--499
528 Beverly Hills _ ..........:.- .-..· · - - - · - · - · - 326.00
161
·
529 Loyalty .,..:...·-- ··
· ·..-. - · · - -·- 28& ·
587.50
- - - ·.,
"-·
··-·
·-·-···
·····
--··
dria
xan
:__
531 Ale
.....: _.........:._
1.541.00
708
_ .:.... .,...- ..
_
·535 Alexan~ Hamilton
_
....
......
..
,._:.
.:.... .:,._
384.00
537 Utopia - ..................;.o. _ _
190
··-· ·-- ···· -· 518
l,<>t6.25
..
.....
··~.;
·····
-····
~ch-·
en
540 Que
-..---~·
412.7S
543 Sig na l-- ..-- ··-- ··-- -·-·
· - · - - - -... 204
·
......
·-...
··-·
1,052.00
···476
545 Jon ath an- ····
1,283.00
546 San Gabriel · - - +t2
--·559,31
547 Arcadia
275
-"
·--478.00
·-·-·
.
,...·
....e:..
ngl
548 Tria
234
·---......-·00
824.
373
.
_
...
--.
t~.
por
Sea
_
550
_ ..;. ._.. ..__
00
989.
558 Point Fin nin _ __:....,.___
..; 422
563 South Par k

.i.·-··-----

----

A

121

field ....................................... - ................................... 237 .
Garard
esBoA.ulev
566 ·ram
424
Par k
568
167
311
463
528
·
-·-·
·····
-···· -···- ·····
572
579 Wa rren G. Hardiag
113
378
126
279
266
-··-···•····---·········-····-······ 27..
595 Alexander Graham Bell
880
576
336
422
292
350 .
·· 439
..
-·-·
-·-·
····-······-·
..
··
-···
-···
426 .
612 Temple City··-· ···· --·- ·-··
423
407
166
374
844
265
258
-····---- 283
····
··---··
····
·-·--·655
632 Normal &ijjii~·-·-·····
637
·
3~ kf~~:t::
--·· ··-- ·-·- ·-·· -·-- ·--- ··-· ·-·- ···- 389
287
636 John Mar sh;i l···· ····· ·--- ·-··

it~~~~~~~~~~~

i~s~~~~~~

I~~~~~~~~~

-~;~~~~~~
-········:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::~::=:::: 396
::::::::::::::::::~.:::::::::=
:~ ~=i~e ____:::::
........:.... _.__ 417
-...
·
·
__
.....
......
··--

641 James A. F~h;·· ............................................................................ 243
y
642 la Cumbre
258
142
646
261
650
192
659
447
662
123
663
116
665
193
672
324
677
460
678
143
679
183
680
124
681
299
682
131
684
316
.
·
--·
-··
···arlno ·-·685
- - - - - -..- ...·......--· --· ---·--·- -· 203
686 Albany
··--· ····· ·'"-· -·-- ·-·-· ···-- ·'"'·-·······":"
·····
-···ona
689 Poh
69
····-···-··-··--;-··--·---··---····-·· 265
-···
·--690 San eai:i··········-···
·····-·-·······
···-· ·---··- ·-··· -···· ··-·691 Indian V.::~lsValley .......
..................._........................- ..........,..... 298
693 p Im s
154
69i
.. 160
.......
--...
---···--·
·-··
··-····
-·-· ···- --- ·-·695 M
··..:.····-···---··--·-·---··-··--··- 131
696 C:,:::;;·····-···.,.················-· -·---·········-····-··-···-··. 230

s:O An:,r::s ·······-··········-·-····-·············-···-····-·-···-··-···-········-·-·-···--·····-·····-

-

700.00
939.25
339 .75
630.00
1,155.25
1.102.00
1.144.50
226.55
903.00
381.50
561.50
5.34.00
833.00
l,767.25
1.165.00
861.50
862.90
. 592.53
704.00
891.50
863.00
866.03
825.00
. 359.68
774.00
2,629.50
536.50
662.25
583.00
l,335.00
1.275.00
802.50
619.93
812.50
1,123.00
512.00
930.00
316.00
570.45
400.11
933.00
551.50
285.50
399.46
766.00
950.00
292.50
388.50
262.00
636.09
277.00
836.00
450.00
147.50
593.00
617.10
414.00
414.SO
270.00
466.92

122

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCUDINGS OP THE

Saint Simo ···--············-···-···········-···-············-···-··-·-···-· :~
Wm. D. Stephens-··-··-···-·-··--·-·-·-····· ·--····--·--··--·-· 218
Bixby Knolls ·-···········--·--··----···-···-··--- ··-·······-··· 201
Ponderosa ·-··- - · · - - · · - · - - - · - - - · - - · - - 74
95
--Santa Yne:& V.Dcy
217
Rosemead - ·
Westchester ·-··-~--------·--~--·'" 175
143
Seafaring-·--·-Lorenzo:....·-···---···----· ·-····-·----·--- 103
710 Anacapa ·----------···--···-··-··-·-- -·-·-----·-- 85

697
698
699
700
701
702
703
708
7r:IJ

711 Rim of the World-·----·---··-· - -- ·...--712 Los Altos 714 Blue Lakes ····-- · -·· - -··-·--·

715 Magnolia Park - - · · - -- - -· 717 Wayfarer - ····--···-·-·-·· - · · - · · - - · - · - - - U.D. San Loren:co Valley···-..·······-······-···--·~-·-·--U.D. &tero - - · - - - - - · - · · · - - · - - · - - - - - - - · UD. Mineral King ------·---·--- - - - - - - · - - - · - . - -.- - · - - UD. Home~...
UD. Acalanes .......................................... _..............................................
U.D. Saint John's

79

89
103
71

49
62
61
90

55

52

36

-·-··--==----· fs
~k:~~~---·--·-·····
8:8: So.
California ReRUCh . · - - - · - - - - · - - · - - - - - - ·
Referred to Committee on Finance.

223.00
2.199.50
467.00
434.00
198.00
199.45
441.20
377.00
326.00
383.63
231.00
206.50
203.00
359.25
315.00
113.00
150.50

204.SO

284.59
126.75
tOS.25
94.50
98.50
118.00

123

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
NOTE:
Preceding the report pre8ented httewith, Chairman Jack C. Butler of the Boan1 of
Control told in detail eleven actual csse3 handled bg Board& of Relief, vividly portraying the .service which is being performed.
Grand ~ecretary.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
BOARDS OP RELIEF

In this jurisdiction we maintain eighteen ( 18) Boards of Relief. All
of these boards have placed on file with the Board of Control a complete
record of the activities of their offices for the Masonic year just closed,
as required by the ordinances. These reports have been audited by quali~
fled accountants and have been carefully analyzed by the Board of
Control.
During the past year their reports show as follo~s:
Advanced for Relief.................................................. $55,267
933
Funerals Conducted ................................................
Total Calls Made...................................................... 23,348
Sicks Calls ........................................................ 7724
Investigations Conducted ......... :.................... 436
Relief Calls ...................................................... 5850
Miscellaneous Calls ........................................ 9338
Many of our Boards of Relief maintain Blood Banks for the benefit
of our Masonic Brethren and their families. During the past year these
boards report as follows:
Units of Blood Donated...........·--··········-···-····-··-···-·-· 2256
Units of Blood Withdrawn...................................... 2040
Actual Cost saved our Brethren.............................. $53,045
REIMBURSEMENTS

The Board of Control is pleased to announce that the efficient management of our Boards of Relief has again resulted in a year wherein
there are no requests for reimbursements from Grand Lodge.
Our California Grand Lodge has long ago established the policy that
it is incumbent upon us to render relief in all worthy cases, and Grand
Lodge has reimbursed lodges and Boards of Relief for relief extended
where foreign Jurisdictions have refused to relieve their own brethren
and the lodges and Boards of Relief have applied for reimbursement
from Grand Lodge.
To relieve the distressed, our Boards of Relief have advanced over
$55,000.00 during the past Masonic year. These advances have been so
managed by our offices that all foreign jurisdictions have recognized their
obligation and our Boards of Relief have been made whole.

124

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EMPL OYME NT BUREAUS

personal incompatibillty between employees which refuse
d
methods of correction, and which was affecting the efficie all other
ncy of that
office.
The Board of Control is now in session during this comm
unciation
. of Grand Lodge. which will complete our work for this
year.
All members of the Board were in attendance on all meeti
ngs.
Frate rnally submitted.

We maintain seven ( 7) Employment Bureaus within the
ing the past year the employment bureau at Sacramento was State. Durdiscontinued
at their ~equest. All Bureaus have filed their audited
reports with the
Board of Control as required. Their records show as follow
s:
Registered for employment.......................................... 5400
Male ............•.....•....••................................... 3968
Female •.......•. ~..,•..·-·····-························-·· 1432
Jobs secured •........•...,...,.,..,..,. ....•... _................................. 23
71
Positions offered by employers...................•......•.....,. ... 7651
No fees are charged by our eJnployment bureaus either to
the employer or employee. Were we to use the rates permitted comm
ercial agencies
by the State of California, our employment o.ffkes would
have earne d
$193,053.00.
To maintain our Employment Bureaus at their present high
stand ard.
it has been customary for Gran d Lodge to assist them
financially by
means of an appropriation.
The Board of Control has approved and recommends to
this Gran d
Lodge that the following appropriations be made to our
seven employment bureaus:
East Bay .........................:...•.............,...•.•...........•~$ 2,500.00

endale ...............................................................
Long Beach .••....••..................;.........:....................
Los Angeles ......................................:..................
San Diego ···-·································..··············"·····
San Francisco ···················-······················"······....

303.00
369.00
2.084.00
6.500.00
2.464.00
2.000.00

Total --..--·-·····-···············-·····-···············$1 6.220.00
The above application for appropriation, together with
the recommend~tion of the Board of Control. has been filed
with the chairman of
the Finance Committee. as required by Section #95 of
the Ordinances.
BOARD OP CONTROL

}ACK

c. BUTLER

}OHN

'f. MARTIN

Guy A. ToLL E
HARR Y F. WHIT E
REGIN ALD M. MILLS

APPROPRIATIONS ,

~lesno ···--·················································-·······

125

The ~ard has held three meetings during the past year.
In Febru ary
we met~ Los Angeles for three days. At this meeting
we asked the
cooperation of many of the Southern California Inspectors
in advising
and enco~ra.ging the lodges in the South (who are now
non-members)
to Join existing Boards of Relief or to organize new board
s.
. Our second three- day meeting was in Oakla nd late in
May. During
this meeting it became necessary for the Board ot Contr ol
to recommend
to the East Bay Board of Relief that a .change be made
in the Employment Bureau. Over a period of years there had existe
d a persistent

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON SEG REG ATIO N
To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Segregation to which has been referr
ed the annual message of the Gran d Master. reports of the Gran
d Secretary.
Grand Treasurer. and various committees. submits the follow
ing report :
We recommend that portions of the Gran d Maste r's
message be
ref erred to the Committees indicated below :
To Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
to the Jurisprudence Committee:
Recommendation for the amendment of Section 150.
relating to
Research Lodges' exemption from minimum annual dues:
Recommendation for the addition of Section 52A relatin
g to the
appointment, for the Hawaiian Islands. of a Depu ty
District Grand
Master;
·
Recommendation for the repeal of Section 637:
Recommendation for the amendment of Section 157:
Recommendation for the repal of Section 634:
Recommendation for the amendment of Section 158 and
the addition
of Section 718A: .
Recommendation for the amen d.m ent of Section 70
relat ing to
Charters:
Recommendation for the amendment of Section 70 relativ
e to Ret\uns:
Recommendation for the amendment of Section 111 relatin
g to the
Constitution of New Lodges;
Recommendation for the amendment of Section 11 and
.Section 32
relating to Special Communications of Grand Lodge ;

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

uRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

with the repor t of
Exhibits A and B to be considered in conjunction
the Special Committee on Publications.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes: gn Recognition;
The appo intme nt of a Special Committee on Forei
on Revision of
The Recommendation relative to the Commission
Ross Digest;
sentatives.
The Recommendation relative to Gran d Lodge repre
the Committee
to
and
oses
Purp
To the Committee on Policy and General
on Finance:
the Hawa iian
The Recommendation that the Gran d Lecturer visit
Islan d Lodges at least once every four years ;
the Hawa iian
The Recommendation that the Gran d Secre tary visit
.
Islan d Lodges at least once every ten years
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
Decisions J to 18, inclusive.
To the Committee on Finance:
d Lodge of the
The contribution of $2.500.00 to·the relief of the Gran
Neth erlan ds.
To the Committee on Charters:
Lodge, No. 66, be
The Recommendation that the Char ter of Fores t
revoked.
age a reflection
We find in our review of the Gran d Mast er's mess
and commend
nity
frater
of his own sincerity, kindliness and love of the
n.
Maso
er
Mast
a
of
careful study of the message as the mark

and Finance:
To the Committee on Policy and .Gene ral Purposes
mation
J• Repo rt of the Committee on Masonic Infor
·
To the Finance Committee:
J. Report of the Histo ry Committee:
nic Club Hous e
2A. Reelport of the Boar d of Directors of the Maso
'
Los ng es:
ration;
3. Repo rt of Committee on Columbia Temp le Resto
i. Repo rt of Committee on De Molay; and
5. Report of Trus tees of Masonic Club House, Berkeley.

126

Gran d Secr etary 's Repo rt
repor t relative
We recommend that portion of the Gran d Secre tary's
on Policy
ittee
Comm
to Lodges Unde r Dispensation be refer red to the
and Gene ral Purposes.
mendation by our
All other portions of the repor t are without recom
ittee.
Comm
this
by
nce
refere
Gran d Secre tary and require no
many courthe
for
s
thank
our
ssing
expre
ut
We cann ot pass witho
tesies of his office and capable staff.

.

Gran d Trea surer 's Repo rt

rt and the repor t
We recommend that the Gran d Trea surer 's Repo
ed to the Comreferr
be
to,
there
hed
attac
of the Investment Committee,
·
rt.
mittee on Finance, along with the Audi tor's Repo
have such
we
that
We pass these repor ts along with fervent thank s
d Lodge.
Gran
this
of
sts
capable men to safeg uard the financial intere
Com mitte e Reports
following refAs to the Committee Repo rts we recommend the
erences:

127

Respectfully submitted,
DONA LD G. CAMP BELL
LLOYD D. McIN TYRE
KENN ETH H. McCu TCHE ON

Adop ted.
At i:i5 P.M. Gro!lnd ~d9e was called off until 9:30

A.M. , Tues day.

128

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, .1953
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 A.M., the Grand Master presid-

ing.
The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation.

REpORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE
ON MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is the third year I have been privileged to render a report to this
Grand Lodge on Memorial Temple.
In rendering this report. even at the risk of repeating that which is already known to some of the brethern here in attendance, your Committee believes a brief review of the history of the activities of thi~ C.ommittee is significant and most important, particularly for you Masters and
Wardens who may be in attendance for the first time and who are not as
familiar with the work that has been done as some of the rest of us.
1947

It was during the 1947 Annual Communication that Past Grand
Master John R. Moore made the following suggestion:
"l. That a committee of nine members of this Grand Lodge be appointed by the incoming Grand Master, to be known as the Committee
on Memorial Temple: that said committee be empowered to purchase
and acquire land for a temple site in the name of this Grand Lodge in the
city of San Francisco and to erect a Grand Lodge Temple thereon of
such size and type as it shall decide: that said committee be further empowered to make, sign, and enter into all documents, contracts, and
agreements in the name of this Grand Lodge, which may be required or
necessary to erect and complete said temple: that said committee be
definitely enjoined to complete said temple and have it ready for occupancy on or before September l , 1950: and that said temple, when
completed, be called "Masonic Memorial Temple" and bear an appropriate inscription to the memory of the Masons from California Lodges
who served and died in World War 11. as determined by said committee.
2. That the War Relief Fund, amounting to approximately $155.574.94, be transferred to. and set up as, a special account and entitled
"Memorial Temple Fund."
3. That a levy of $6 be made upon every member of Lodges in this
jurisdiction. payable on or before July 31, 1950, but in no case less than

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

129

$2 per annum; and that the Secretaries f th Lo
levy and remit same to the "M
. °T e dges shall collect said
. . · January 1, 1948.
emoria1 emple Fu n d" quarter1
ginning
y, be4. That the Committee ~n Memorial T
I
cept from members of Lodges in this ·uri d ~~p e be authorized to acor otherwise. contributions to the "M -J ~ icTtion, through said Lodges
5 Th
emoria1 emple Fund "
.
at such sum as may be deemed
.
the General Fund of this Grand Lod e n~c~~sary be. transferred from
as an operating fund, which sum sha~l ~ t e Memorial Temple Fund"
when conditions warrant.
returned to the General Fund
6. That the Committee on Memo . I T
vouchers upon the "Memorial Tem l~aFu d~ple be em~wered to draw
amounts as it deems necessar f p .. n at such times and in .such
erection of said temple."
y or acqumng the temple site and for the
On page 253 of the same proceedin s 1947 h
.
and General Purposes recommend d t~ • h • t e Committee on Policy
Finance Committee. That Commi~tee
t e matter be referred to the
and _they recommended that a committeeeported ~n pages 281 and 282
vestigate all phases in connection with th
a~b?~nted to study and inMasonic Memorial Temple to re rt 't e easi ility of the erection of a
communication of this Gra~d Lodpo ids thconclusions at the next annual
.h d
. .
ge an
at said co
't
b h
wit
etermmmg, as accurately a
'bl
h
mmi tee e c arged
scope of the temple and the estimat dossi e, t e }?cation, the size and
in~ and fur?ishings, etc. The rep~rt ~':r~~::r:of, including land, buildonal Committee investigate the
b bl
uggested that the MemGrand Lodge offices and hall to :~k a the cos~ of remodeling the present
tion of Grand Lodge.
e em a equate for the best opera-

:t

17

1948
your Special Committee reported i 1948 (
and 153) and recommended the
t' n
the full report pages 152
report was adopted.
con inuance of the Committee and the
The 1948 report indicated that remodelin f
.
was not the answer to this pi:oblem.
go 25 Van Ness Avenue.

1949
In 1949 the Committee reported ro re .
ettding in accordance with the b' pti g ss m part as follows: "Protlons, but that nothing sufficien~ hec ~es w~ report important negotiapreliminary commitment".
as een eveloped to warrant firm
I
1950
. n 1950, page 104, your Memorial Co
.
tail the studies made, the sites studied butm;~ttee
repo~tedrecommendain some dea no speciBc

130

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

tion except to continue the Committee "and that further study be made
on the complex problem of site selection and constructing an adequa te
building to suit the particul ar requirem ents of the Grand Lodge" .
The continuance of the Committee was so ordered .
1951

By 1951 your Committee and its predece ssor committees had surveyed every known available parcel of real estate in the City of San
Francis co that might fulfill our requirements. Those that were adequa te
were not available at the time. Your Committee ··lien turned to older
structur es, and through Brother James Hurst, Past Master of Californ ia
Lodge No. 1, and Brother Henry J. Brunnier, Past Master of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481, we began to survey many structur es with the
thought of possibly remodeling a structur e already in existence.
In reportin g on the "Mason ic Memor ial Temple " Commi ttee's recommendations, the Finance Committee reporte d as follows:
"This Committee has labored diligently but to date has not been able
to submit a proposa l worthy of conside ration by this Grand Lodge. In
its current report, the Commi ttee states that due to building restrictions,
it now has under conside ration several improved propert ies which might
be suitably remodeled for our purpose but that it is not in a position to
make a definite recommendation at this Communication. , Howeve r, it
does recommend that the Committee be continued, and we concur in this.
"The Committee also recognizes that we are experiencing great difficulty in accommodating the members of Grand Lodge at the Annual
Communications, hence the recommendation to hold the Annual Communications in the San Francis co Civic Auditorium for five years beginning in 1952, subject to the approva l of the Grand Master. The
Committee also recognizes that moving to the Civic Center cannot be a
perman ent arrange ment but that eventua lly some provision must be made
for a perman ent Grand Lodge headqu arters and meeting place. However, no provision has heen made for the financing of such a project,
and before any material progres s can be made some attentio n must be
given to this importa nt phase. Therefo re, it proposes the levying of a
fifty-cent per capita tax for the purpose of creating a building fund.
"Your Commi ttee on Finance concurs in both of these recommendations. Every member of the Grand Lodge has a right to attend all of its
sessions, particul arly the opening session, and those who desire to do so
should be accorde d by that right the provision of more commodious
quarters : The proposa l to create a building fund with the assessm ent of
a per capita tax of 50c is sound. Our capital funds are not sufficient to
enable us to engage in a building enterpri se. Outside of the War Relief Fund, capital funds of this Grand Lodge have increase d at the rate
of approxi mately $26,000 a year for the past ten years. A fifty-cent per
capita tax would yield approxi mately $100,000.09 per annum, and if

GRAND LODGE OP CAiJPOR NIA

131

carried over for a number of years ' would create a very substanti'al
building fund."
The Finance Commi ttee report continues as follows:
e therefor e offer the following resolution and recommend its
adopt10n, and we are advised by the Committee on Policy and G eneraI
Purpose that it concurs in this resolution:

"V:'

. ·~RESOLVED, that the amount of $158,507.41 now standin
in the War ~emo~ia.l Building Fund be again made availabl~
to t~e Memo.rial Building Committee for the purpose of acquiring
options, having plans drawn, or such other purposes as may be
d.eemed advisab le in connection with the acquiring of a suitable
site_for Grand Lodge headqu arters, any such expendi tures bein
subject to the prior approva l of the Grand Master, the Deput g
y
G~and Master and the Chairm an of the Committee on F'
b~n:~~
w~th the underst anding that no perman ent decision shall
any propose d Grand Lodge h ead quarter s or
e to
with · referenc
.
I
meeting Pace without the approva l of this Grand Lodge: and
"BE IT RESOL VED FURTH ER, that a per capita tax of
flfrr cents ( 50c) ?e ~evied for the year 1951-52, the proceeds of
se ordered
wbhichh sGhall be paid into a building fund until otherwi
·
y t e rand Lodge; and

"B~ IT RESOL VED FURTH ER, that the Grand Master be

authoriz ed to enter into such commitments as may seem desirab~e for th~ use of the San Francisco Civic Auditorium, or such
ot er meeting place as may appear to he suitable for the next
· · ti
and succeeding Annual Com' mumca
Annual Communication
ons '
. exceeding five years."
but no t for a period
The report was adopted by Grand Lodge.
1952

o:

Early in 1952 your Committee was offered for consideration ro t~e
erty owned. by the San Francis co Stock Exchan ge located
·
p
s
of
City
the
in
Streets
e
Sansom
comer of Pine and
co~si~ted of a 12 .story office building and a one sto a:udi~::i~::o. It
building known as t~e sub-trea sury building. It wasrythis latter ri~:
d
of t~e propert y that interest ed your Committee. After som e s t udpo
y an
· d t h at t he propert y could not be divided th
Inquiry w e w ere a d vise
t ·f
' a.i
we wanted the auditori um portion of the propert y we wou Id o f necessit
y
h 12
have t b

~~:
:~ ~~v~~~1Jh:matter
; ~~~J:~:gder~~~we~e ~~::i~
0
:~::~:~~ ¥o;ke~r~~xc~!~
the
ed
concern
were
as
far
So
er stu y.
n
w cl
of3:he ~~~r~n!1 ~o~!:O:~::;~:eE':~~::::i:s~:::iic!e~:~e~::~::
0

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND L<?DGE OF CALIFORNIA

our. position. This we did. We employed Mr. ~lbert F. Roller. arc?i·
tect to make a study for the Committee. You will recall that at the msist;nce of the Exchange we were unable to identify to Grand Lod~e
the property or its location. Your Committee wishes ag~in to express its
sincere thanks and appreciation for the confidence this Gra.nd_ Lodge
placed in it a year ago in authorizing us to co~tinue our negotiations fo~
the purchase and remodeling of the San Franosco Stock Exchange prop
erties for approximate ly $3.000,000 or more. in spite of the fact that at
that time the property had not been identified.
.
your Committee wishes to report we did continue our negotiations
but the deal fell through because of the failure of the Stock Exchange
people to follow through on their part of the negotiated deal.
At the 1952 Session of Grand Lodge. upon reco~mendation. of this
Committee, the Finance Committee and the Committee on P~hcy and
General Purpose. the annual per capita tax per member was increased
from 50c per member to $1.00 per member.
This my brethren, is a not too brief review of the history of the act" "ties ~f your Memorial Temple Committee from its inception to and
i~v~luding the report at the last Annual Communication. For complete
study I refer you to each of the proceedings for the years 1947 through
1952.

to resurve~ our curren~ position. Realizing that this Grand Lodge had
reaffir~ed_ its kee.n desire to have this Committee produce results by re-

132

1953
Since our last Annual Communication, at the request of the Chairman of your Committee, we have added two new members to our Com"ttee They are Past Master John Bovey of Excelsior Lodge No. 166
:; S~ Francisco. and Past Master Otto H. Fischer of Oak Grove
Lodge No. 215 of Alameda. Brother Bovey is a banker and ~rather
Fischer a manufacture r. The change in Committee representati on was
occasioned by the fact that Brother Henry Brunnier was out of the city
for the entire year and Brother James Hurst acted as our real estate
agent. your Chairman recommended and the Grand Master concurred
in the recommendation.
Following past practice this Committee continued to invite other
brethren. when available. to sit in on meetings. Those who attended
most of ou~ meetings giving us the advantage of their coun~el were Past
Grand Masters Francis V. Keesling and Lloyd E. Wilson, all the
elected Grand Lodge Officers when in the area, and other brethren.
your Chairman has also endeavored to keep all el~ted Grand ~dge
officers not in the vicinity and the Chairman of the Finance Committee
currently advised of our progress.
Early in 1953, and shortly after the Stock Exchange deal fell through.
your Committee. together with the Grand Master. the Grand Treas~rer.
the Grand Secretary and P.M. James Hurst, held a number of meeting~

133

affirming its continuance each year since 1948 and by the most unselfish
display of complete confidence vested in the Committee and the elected
Grand Lodge Officers at the last Annual Communication, we all felt that
we ~hould continue our efforts and either find that which we sought, if
available, or return to Grand Lodge at this Communication and acknowledge that the Committee had failed and recommend that it be discon-·
tinued. The mandate was clear, the solution not so easy. Functioning
under the 1951 authority. page 292 of Proceedings heretofore referred
to, we renewed our efforts.
This re-survey unfolded to the Committee very dramatically and
clearly several conclusions: Namely. that of the 15 principal sites heretofore surveyed we picked out the five most likely ones. We received
the file on each of these and made a personal inspection. Some had
structures on them. We concluded (a) that to try to remodel any of
these would defeat our purpose, namely-th at the memorial feature of
our new home could not be readily obtained: ( b) locations were not the
locations we would have picked had the properties not been offered for
s~le:. ( c) the _neighborhood in most locations was not in keeping with the
dignity of this Grand Lodge: ( d) the seating capacity in most instances
would be inadequate for future expansion and ( e) after remodeling most
of these old buildings v.:e realized they left much to be desired from the
functional standpoint of Grand Lodge.
Our next move was to again definitely determine if 25 Van Ness
A venue could be remodeled to be made adequate for our purpose. I wish
to quote from l3rother Albert Roller's letter of March 18, 1953. He reported in, part: "The building code in San Francisco now stipulates as
follows: A_ssembly halls are permitted on any floor in a building of Type
1 construction but they are limited to a maximum seating capacity of 300
on any one floor above the second floor.' " With these limitations it was
concluded that to try to remodel 25 Van Ness Avenue would not be the
answer to our problem. A similar conclusion was reached in 1948.
Our next move seemed to have· been directed by divine guidance because about the time your Committee decided that Nob Hill would be
the id~al locatio_n our real estate specialist reported that a parcel of land.
a portion of which had previously been considered for our use but which
was purchased by others before the Committee could get authority to
act, li,ad again been placed on the market because the owners were in
lnancial difficulties and had to abandon their plans for a substantial
apartment hotel.
After careful and prayerful consideration, and with full consent of
all elec~ed Grand Lodge officers and this Committee, an option was taken
on Apnl 27, 1953 on a piece of property located on Nob Hill which was
pbsequently purchased for $730,000.00.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND ?..9ME OP CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OP PROPERTY

PARKING PROBLEM ON NOB HILL

The site is located on the south side of California Street on Nob Hill
between Taylor and Jones Streets, just across the street from Grace
Cathedral and diagonally across the street from Huntington Park (Municipal) and Pacific Union Club. This makes the site just one block
west of the Mark Hopkins and the Fairmont Hotels.

STANDARD OIL SURVEY

134

IMPROVEMENTS

It is occupied by a Standard Oil Station on the corner of Taylor and
California Streets, and a four story apartment on the California
Street frontage. All leases are subject to cancellation on not less than
120 days' notice. With present occupancy the property is not carrying
itself. We have adopted a policy of giving all_ tenants a one year lease
with a month's free rent if we cancel within 12 months.
SIZE OP PROPERTY AND ASSESSED VALUE

Fronting 275 feet on California, 200 feet on Taylor• and 25 feet on
Pine Street.
Lot area-49,843.75 square feet.
Land is assessed at $175,100.00.
Building is assessed at $46,250.00.
Taxes 1953-54-$13,930.0 6.
OPTION TAKEN AND REZONING

On April 27, 1953, after many meetings, much checking ~nd r~­
checking, and after having unanimous consent of all those mentioned m
the 1951 resolution in addition to those mentioned in the 1952 resolution, it was decided to take an option on the property.
Our first offer-$700,000 with $10,000 down payment. , This offer
was rejected with advice to us that a similar offer had already been rejected.
Our final offer of $740,000 (about $14.84 per square foot) with a
$50,000 deposit was the best we were able to do. This was made subject
to our ability to obtain satisfactory rezoning from second residential to
commercial. The rezoning has been accomplished as of July 9, 1953.
On September 25th we exercised our option and took title to the
property, our incentive being a $10,000 discount fordosing rather than
waiting till October 20, 1953. This brought our cost to $14.61 per square
foot. Since we obtained our option the adjoining property sold for
$15.86 per square foot, according to reports. Your committee now asks
that by the adoption of this report that that action be ratified, affirmed
and approved.

135

Nob Hill area has been declared critical from a parking standpoint
which has given rise to providing for a public parking garage.
Current i)arking rates on Nob Hill range from $26.00 per month to
$1.50 per day. Some monthly rates are as low as $19.00, but one of the
problems on the Hill is the great number of cars ,p arked on the streets
because there are no off-street parking facilities available. Day Rates
range from 50c for 2 hours to 75c for night parking, and $1.50 for
over night parking when space is available.
A survey made for the Committee by Standard Oil Company of
California shows real need for parking facilities. They estimate an
annual net income, of $90,842 out of estimated gross of $159,101 from
parking revenue.
The Committee feels a parking garage is in order since it may be
included without excessive cost per car area for excavation since the
property drops about 22 feet from the west to east on California Street
and 62 feet from California Street south on Taylor Street.
The Standard Oil survey also shows that there are 3,HO apartments
and 205 rooms in 185 units or buildings in the 4 x 6 square block area
with 1,297 parking spaces. Of the 1,297 parking spaces 957 are open
lots or in public garages and/or service stations, leaving 340 for residents of the area in competition with transients.
Your Committee, while grateful to the Standard Oil Company of
California for its survey, feels that it may be too optimistic and has requested the San Francisco Parking Authority to make a survey for comparative purposes. This survey should be available to tis in the next few
weeks.

GROWTH OP GRAND LODGE

Since 1920 we have had an annual increase in membership of over
4,070 net per year.
Population has increased from 3,426,861 in 1920 to 12,075,000 in
1953. It is estimated by official sources that by 1975 the population of
California will be at or near the 20,000,000 mark.
During the period 1920-1953 inclusive, we have had an average of
1.165 new applicants per year. For the year ended July 31, 1953 we had
10,003 initiates and a net gain in membership of 5,807. This
represents an increase of 751 new applicants and 475 new members over
the previous year. In 1920 we had 395 lodges with 76,783 members.
As of July 31, 1953, the end of the current fiscal year, we had 624 lodges
and 213,639 members.

136

PROCEEDINGS OF TH E
CU RRE NT STA TUS

r one acr e of
s Gr and Lodge owns ove
1. At the pre sen t time thi
l.
choice real est ate on No b Hil brochure emphasizes the importance of
r
you
in
h
rap
tog
.
·. 2. Th e pho
this
to
ed
ign
ass
the location.
ds
fun
l
de out of specia
3 Th e pur cha se has been ma m fun ds accrued dur ing the las t two
fro
and
dge
Com~ttee by Gr and Lo 00 annual per capita tax per member.
nal Gr and
yea rs from the 50c and $1.
hav e aut hor ize d use of additio ~hie to
re
4. Th e Gr and Ma ste r could
we
we
the pro per ty, but since
int ere st
5%
Lo dge funds to pay cash for
at
00
00.
oun t of $248,4
am
the
in
n
loa
nce
ura
ins
assume an
decided on tha t course.
.
alr ead y on the pro per ty we
e been completed.
5. Pre lim ina ry dra win gs hav isions remain for you r ComDUttee to
dec
6. A number of important
s are comcertain stu die s now in proces
il
unt
de
ma
be
't
make, but can
f h
h ·
e o t e
·
n variables such as t e siz
pleted. owing for cer tain
now
unk
7 All
al to be used
700 cars, wh at typ e of mater~ foyer a~d
or
400
for
be
it
ll
sha
.
a~e
gar
nal
l appointments in the Me mo
on the outside, wh at specia imated by our architect tha t the ent ire
est
countless oth er items, it is
can be accomfurnishings, org an and all
s,
fee
d,
lan
of
t
.
stru ctu re, cos
·
0.
plished for und er $5,000,00 t has been reaffirmed each yea r since 1948.
8. Th e need for this pro jec
d.
are und er ma nda te to procee
Yo ur ·Committee feels we
PROPOSED INC OM E FRO

M ME MO RIA L TEM PLE

a stru ctu re
can be exp ect ed from such
To forecast acc ura tely wh at
t yea r the y
las
ort
Fin anc e Committee's rep
is most difficult. I thi nk in the the y sta ted :
en
.indi.vidual,
stru ck an im por tan t not e wh
of a new home, eith er for an
se
cha
pur
the
ng
eri
sid
con
"In
er 1t will be ~
is not con sid ere d as to wh eth to wh eth er it
it
rily
ina
ord
,
dge
Lo
a
for
or
as
ncial poi nt of view, but rat her namely, tha t
good investment from a fina
ed,
end
int
is
it
ich
wh
for
e
pos
nd busine~s
will meet the nee ds of the pur
can be recommended as a sou uns oun d 1f
it
nk
thi
not
do
e
W
se
of a home.
sen
any
in
tha t the pro jec t is
a per ma nen t
investment, nei the r do we fel
which is int en de d-t ha t of
ive
ect
obj
the
er
sid
con
to
are
we
."
home for the Gr and Lo dge
a fair ren t ~or
Lodge wo uld have to pay
and
Gr
say
Suffice it to
Ma~k Ho pki ns
the
with the ow ner s of both
and Bro the r
office space. In consultation
ect
hit
arc
r
eth er wit h ou
tog
tel,
Ho
ont
rm
Fai
the
Ho tel and
rist ~ur~au,
nci sco Co nve nti on an~ T~u auditorium
Fra
San
the
of
on
ans
Sw
r
size
Wa lte
re is a real dem and for this
one could conclude tha t the
?me of $90,842
inc
~et
te~
ima
est
itio n to the
m_e of $45,and dis pla y facility. In add
mco
m
ans on estimates a minimu
ile we are
from the gar age , Bro the r Sw
Wh
tal.
ren
spa ce and auditorium
n made.
bee
000 per annum for dis pla y
has
te
ima
est
auditorium no
the
m
fro
e
om
hic
e
som
of
cer tain

IFORNI
GRAND LODGE OF CAL
REN
GRAND MA STE R'S CO NFE

A

137

CE

g of all Pa st
and Ma ste r called a meetin
On Au gus t 2, 1953, you r Gr
we re pre s31
Chairmen and others. Ab out
the Ca liof
Gr and Mast~rs, Committee
t
jec
er matters discussed, the sub ematic dra went. At tha t time, among oth
sch
and
Te mp le wa s discussed
fornia Masonic Memorial
ed the pre sen taTh e bre thr en pre sen t receiv
.
yed
pla
dis
ns
pla
and
s
ing
since then enLetters received from some
m.
ias
hus
ent
ch
mu
h
wit
tion
not having fee
gratifying. On account of
.financing the
dorsing our efforts are most
sed
t dat e we had not discus
title to the pro per ty as of tha es or insura~ce companies. Since the n
nci
and Tre aspro jec t wit h any loaning age
eth er wit h ou r As sis tan t Gr
tog
e,
itte
mm
Co
r
you
of
ers
memb
a num ber of apary and oth ers , hav e made
ret
Sec
and
Gr
the
and
r
ure
ointed, we are
Ev en tho ugh we we re disapp W e are con proaches wit hou t success.
ily.
rthwhile do not come eas
not discouraged. Th ing s wo pro gra m at our disposal. Th at pro pos al
ial
the end of
.8dent the re is a sou nd .financ
ndations to Gr and Lodge at
me
om
rec
our
in
ted
mit
sub
will be
this report.
PROPOSED FIN AN CIN G

shor, Ch air ges ted by Dr . Ern est G. Ba
Th e following ide a wa s sug
pre sen t at the
dow me nt Bo ard wh o wa s
man Ma son ic Ho me s En
r.
by the Gr and Ma ste
meeting of Au gus t 2nd called
as he sen t it to
ence I shall rea d the pla n
Wi th you r fur the r indulg
.
ommendation
me and then fit it int o our rec
t the Gr and
idly att end ed meeting tha
"Fo llo win g the ver y splend
, the follow ..
ago
eks
Hopkins Ho tel a few we
r, the Ch air Ma ste r called at the Ma rk
ste
Ma
and
sonally to the Gr
per
sed
res
exp
re
we
ts
ugh
ing tho
and one or two
ittee, the Gr and Sec ret ary ,
mm
Co
ng
ildi
Bu
the
of
n
ma
ort wa s pre tha t meeting, a masterful rep det ails on
ing
others wh o we re present. At
the Building Committee, giv
sented by the Ch air ma n of l sur vey of these, and the elimination of
efu
osing of
costs, sites, etc., wit h a car
l reasons. and finally, the cho
era
sev
of
one
to
due
s.
one
various
No b Hill.
the ver y desirable location on
sen ted for
and impressive plan wa s pre
in Ca liIn addition. a ver y elaborate
son
Ma
ry
eve
tha t would make
one
;
ple
Tem
ic
son
Ma
d
ose
a Prc;>p
still rem ain s a
ancing of suc h a stru ctu re
fin
e
Th
ud.
pro
st
mo
nia
for
meeting, tha t
dent at the conclusion of the the En dow big question. It seemed evi
effort to divert monies from
there should be no con cer ted
and oth er me ans
assessments, per cap ita tax . l remained the
ment Fu nd. Th e ma tte r of
stil
ere
Th
rou ghl y explored.
of acqu~ring monies we re tho
ght be :Possible
t or a new idea wh ere by it mi
ugh
tho
new
a
for
ty
uni
ort
opp
Wi th this tho ug ht
Building could materialize.
by Ma son ic
~ se~ure funds tha t such a the
following: W e are informed Ma son ry.
ive
m mmd, we humbly offer
rat
olden day s wo rke d in ope
ger wo rk
His tor y tha t Ma son s in the
sized the fact tha t we no lon
pha
em
e
hav
we
,
ies
tur
cen
Po r ma ny

I

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE o,, CALIFORNIA

in operative, but speculative Masonry alone. After one hundred years
of Masonry in California, during which· time the pioneers of our great
Fraternity labored long and hard with determination and vision. of which
we may all be proud, yet there is still no visible monument. To the credit
of these valiant workers not only Masons, but all citizens of California,
are deeply indebted, but more particularly the members of the Craft may
have a feeling of personal pride and interest in their accomplishments.
We are now confronted with the desire and deep determination that a
real monument may be established, not only for their memory and their
accomplishments, but one that will be useful for present day activities,
and one that will stand the ravages of time and forever be for our children and our children's children, a commanding landmark, and an inspiration to all Masons and the public at large.
With such a thought in mind, it would seem that every able bodied
Mason in California would want-yes, even demand-the privilege of
participating in something so meaningful. This is possible, feasible, and
practical. and yet with so little effort on· the part of each of us. Let us all
be a part of this great Temple. Let us put something of ourselves in it.
Let us suggest that all of us participate to the extent of ONE DA Y'S
WORK in operative Masonry. For one day, and for one day only, we
abandon speculative. and unite as one great organization in one day's
work of operative, Masonry. Not a day in a week, a month or a year,
but one day in the balance of our lifetime. One day's work or it's equivalent, for each and everyone of us, would build this momentous, immortal Temple. Such would not involve a huge debt that implies interest and principal payments. In a sense, it is not a gift or contribution,
but represents our participation; it is of ourselves, and we, in a sense,
remain in the Temple forever. To a great degree, it relieves our Grand
Lodge Officers and Committeemen of an immense burden. something that
is not theirs to carry. but it comes from the many for the benefit of all.
It carries with it the spirit of the Craft, recorded in the Halls. Beyond
the corridors would be recorded all the participants. More important
would be the personal satisfaction that everyone had a part in making
this one day's work their participation in a great Temple that will stand
on for decade upon decade, and never can be removed.

Your Committee is most grateful for the suggestion by Brother
Ernest Bashor. This is one of many constructive suggestions received
since our August 2nd meeting. We urge that you at this Communication, or after you leave, if an idea strikes you, to drop the Committee a
line. Your idea may be part of the answer to a difficult problem the
Co.mmittee is struggling with. After all, what we give of material wealth
is important, but all can't contribute material wealth. What we give of
ourselves is irreplaceable. Engineers and architects can draw plans for
bridges and buildings but behind that planning is much individual thinking. With the continued co-operation of all Masons of this great, grand
Jurisdiction we will build for the future a memorial to our war dead that
will be a distinct credit to all Californians. The Grand Lodge of California and the Golden State of the West have paralleled each other in
age, in growth, in leadership and in progress. Masonry must continue
to keep pace for it is destined to exert a potent influence for the good of
all mankind in the marvelous future.
Your Committee recommends for your adoption the following:

"So Faith, Love, Hope abide; these three,
but the greatest of these is Love."
"We could demonstrate our faith in our great organization, we could
see the fulfillment of our hopes, but above all, we would demonstrate our
love for free Masonry which has meant so much to our great country.
the State of California, to our families, and to ourselves.
DR. ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chai~man
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD"

139

1. That this Grand Lodge adopt the official name for our Memorial
Temple to be "California Masonic Memorial Temple".
2. Since it is the unanimous belief of your Temple Committee that
any program of financing should contemplate long-term borrowing that
this Grand Lodge adopt in principal the following general ideas:
(a) That through the cooperation with the Memorial Temple Committee the Grand Master be authorized to appoint a sufficient number of
sub-chairmen and sub-committees to impliment the proposal suggested
by Brother Ernest G. Bashor above referred to. (The details and refinements to be worked out in committee.)
( b) That our goal be set at a minimum average contribution from
each lodge, based on the equivalent of a day's labor, to be not less than
an average of $10.00 per member.
( c) That when a lodge reaches that goal its name (the name of
the lodge) be inscribed as a permanent memorial in the "California
Masonic Memorial Temple" to those California Masons who gave
their lives in any war and a particular memorial to the Masons of the
respective lodges. (Note: Our architect has indicated that such a program is practical and would add substantially to the decoration of the
building and can be worked out to great advantage. It is recommended
that a special sub-committee be appointed to cooperate with the Grand
Master and the architect to work out all the details to properly carry
out this idea.
( d) Your Committee suggests $10.00 average per member because
that amount, together with other sources of revenue hereafter recommended for adoption, will beyond any reasonable doubt be sufficient to
aceomplish this objective.

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3. That the Memorial idea be so developed that new lodges in the
future may participate, and have their names properly inscribed. so long
as there is any unpaid debt on the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
4. That this Grand Lodge again re-affirm the $1.00 per annum per
capita tax, that it be made a constitutional provision and that it be fixed
not to exceed $1.00 per year per member. It is our belief that such a
provision will be helpful in arranging long term financing as soon as
the "day's labor" program is well on its way. By making this a constitutional provision, and fixing it at $1.00, it would give adequate assurance that your Committee entertains no idea of ever levying. at
some future time, a large assessment or assessments. Once this is
fixed at $1.00 it would take a 5/6ths vote of this Grand Lodge to amend
the ordinance. It also follows that the more money raised by the "day's
labor" program, the less will be the borrowing. It is entirely conceivable
that at subsequent sessions of Grand Lodge the per capita could be fixed
at something under $1.00. Incidentally, this is not a new .tax or an increase; it is only retaining in effect that which was voted last year.
5. That in addition to the $1.00 per capita tax above referred to
there be added Section 100 ( b) to our ordinances to read substantially ,
as follows:
. "IOO(b)-ln addition to the contributions to the Masonic Home and the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial provided for in Section 100 and 100 (a). each applicant for the degrees shall accompany
the application with a contribution .of Nine ( 9) Dollars for the construction of the "California Masonic Memorial Temple"; each lodge .
shall transmit such contributions to the Grand Secretary quarterly on .
the first day of November, February, May and August subsequent to
the ·initiation of the candidate: the Grand Secretary shall pay the same
over to the Grand Treasurer to be held by him subject to payment to the
California Masonic Memorial Temple fund upon order of the Grand
Master. In the event of death or denial of advancement before the
candidate is raised, such sum shall be returned to the lodge in the manner, and for disposition as provided in the preceding Section for the return of the Homes contribution in a like event,"
6. That the architect be instructed to complete detailed specifl.cations and drawings preparatory to calling for bids from not less than 5
prime contractors, the bids to be opened in Public.
7. That your Committee be authorized to work out a plan for financing the construction of the proposed "California Masonic Memorial
Temple" in line with above recommendations.
8. That when such a plan is developed by this Committee, and approved by the Grand Master and the other elected Grand Lodge officers,
together with the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financing, the Grand Master, or

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

141

D,e puty Grand Master, and Grand Secretary be authorized and empowered to do all things necessary to make loa~s. execute notes, mortgages,
trust deeds or other instruments, enter into contracts, call for bids and
proceed with construction of the "California Masonic Memorial Temple."
My Brethren, this has been a busy year, a difficult year and an interesting year for your Committee. Every week seemed to bring a neVI
challenge. Each challenge inspired and stimulated new thought.
In 1947 it was suggested that a Memorial Temple be built and completed in time for our Ct;ntennial. Obviously, that was not possible due
to conditions and restrictions beyond our con~ol.
This Committee has had but one motto "Make Haste Slowly". With
reasonable breaks and not too many unavoidable road blocks we should
be able to dedicate the new "California Masonic Memorial Temple"
during the 1955 Annual Communication.'
Your Committee feels that we have a splendid start. The proposed
Temple is in keeping with the dignity and high purpose of California
Masonry.
Much is expected of us in California. It has been said that some day
in the not too distant future California.will be at the top in size measured
in terms of numbers. Even greater is our responsibility in leadership.
The enterprising spirit of Masonry abhors the word "can't". This project is a challenge to every Mason in California. We dare not fail.
EDWARD H. SIEMS
OTTO H. FISCHER
JoHN C. BovEY

Recommendation No. 4 referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and
on Finance.
Recommendation No. 5 referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence.
Report and other recommendations adopted.
At 12:35 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 P.M.
At 1 :30 P.M. the descriptive pkture "The Extended Compass,"
showing details and activities of the Homes at Decoto and Covina was ·
projected and was enthusiastically received by the representatives who
Viewed it.

142

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, October 13, 1953
Grand Lodge was called on at 2: 10 P.M .• the Grand Master presiding.

HE IS "IN TRUTH" A MASTER MASON
Lovs T. NEWTON, Grand Orator
Most Worshipful Sir, our honored Past Grand Masters, distinguished guests and visitors, and members of the Grand Lodge of California; AU MY brethren in Freemasonry:
In accordance with the Ancient Charges of Freemasonry and the Law
of this Grand Lodge, it becomes my duty. and it is a pleasant one, to
deliver at this time, an address on matters pertaining to the Craft.
I would feel remiss in that duty if I did not pay a just and well earned
tribute to the brethren who have labored so well to make of this an outstanding year in the annals of Freemasonry: the Grand Lodge Officers
and Committee Men who have given unsparingly of their time and
ability in the performance of their respective duties.
•
Too much credit cannot be given these brethren, and in particular
our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren. Through his
many. many visitations to all sections of our vast Jurisdiction, participating in Masonic functions of every nature, kind and description he
has in his kindly and friendly manner carried the principles of Freemasonry to the brethren, not by precept alone but more so by example.
His contribution to the cause of Freemasonry will long endure; and the
fruits of his labors will be gathered in all the years to come, for the good
deeds a man performs live long after he has gone to that bourne from
which no traveler returns. May I say to him, for you, "Well done, thou
good and faithful servant of Freemasonry."
At each Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California
we review and evaluate in full the collective results of our individual
labors during the Masonic year just passed and prepare for the new
year to come.
In keeping with that custom I shall review Freemasonry itself.
Masonry's personal obligation to each initiate, the Master Mason's duty
to the Fraternity, the principles we have espoused, the doctrine we
teach and our potential power to influence the lives and destiny of all
mankind.
There will be nothing new, perhaps, in what I say here; but is it not
well that we should be reminded, at our Annual Communication, of the
great heritage we possess, our duty to preserve it unimpaired and to resolve, each man individually. to labor unceasingly in its behalf?
Here the leaders of Freemasonry are met in solemn conclave: the
Officers of the Grand Lodge, the Masters and Wardens and Past Masters from practically every Master's Lodge in California; the men upon
whose shoulders rests the responsibility for the continued success or the

143

failure of Freemasonry in our day, for without strong and devoted leadership we fail.
Freemasonry is a brotherhood of free men; men of good reputation
and therefore presumably of good character; men with a firm belief in a
Supreme Being, a kind and beneficent father of all mankind, who wisely
and justly governs the universe and the lives of men: men who believe
He has endued each of us with a spiritual entity which will never, never,
never die. These four qualifications are basic, fundamental. and a necessity in all Freemasons. He who does not possess them can never be a
Master Mason though he be regularly invested with that ancient and
honorable title. He is, on the contrary, a cheat and a fraud unworthy of
the title bestowed upon him, for he has declared himself to be such a man
and accepted on that premise.
There are, as you well know, no religious qualifications for membership in the Masonic Fraternity other than a declaration of a belief in a
Supreme Power and a future existence. Those who declare that we deny
men membership in Freemasonry because of their affiliation with any
specific church are both ignorant and uninformed and they bear false
witness. It is not true now: it never has been. No where in our Masters
Lodges, or in our Masonic Law, is there any mention of church or creed
as a qualification or disqualification for membership. To the contrary.
communicants of some churches cannot become Freemasons because the
Canon Law of their church prohibits their uniting with us in the great
work to which we are dedicated. These men are not free men and are
more to be pitied than censored. A man can be held in spiritual bondage
just as sure as he can be held in bodily bondage. To be a free man in
the true sense of the word men must be free both spiritually and materially.
For him who is held in material bondage through forces beyond his
power to overcome, there is always hope of acquiring freedom, if he be
spiritually free: but for him who lives in spiritual bondage through the
powers of ignorance and bigotry, and fear of eternal damnation if he
disobey the Canon Law in matters social, civil, political or religious,
there is little hope: and so he lives in bondage in a free country.
Our founding fathers knew about this from the lessons of history
and their own bitter experience in the old countries, when they wrote in
Article I of Amendments to the Constitution, "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." That basic law is Masonic. Let us ever defend it to the
utmost, for we are free men in a free country and from a free church,
or we could not be here today.
Freemasonry is most certainly not a political institution despite continuous false reports to the contrary. We know that politics and political
discussions of every nature, kind and description are prohibited in our
Lodge rooms and in our Temples. And yet, one of the fundamental
Principles of our fraternity, the right to freedom of all men, ittust of

144

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

necessity be the basic doctrine of any political party which declares that
it stands for free men under a free government.
Our sole political duty is to so inculcate our initiates, each one individually. with the doctrine of Freemasonry that they shall never be
deceived or misled by the false doctrines or irresponsible political philosophies of misguided leaders, self-anointed saviours of the people, or
blatant demagogues who seek to obtain power over men for their own
selfish ends.
The primary purpose of Freemasonry, therefore, is to make Master
Masons of men whom we believe possess the necessary qualiflcations and
who come to our door of their own free will and accord. It most surely is
not just to invest them with the title that we labor in our lodges but
rather to make them 'Master Masons in fact as well as in name. This is
Masonry's personal obligation to each novitiate. This is a labor for
Freemasonry that can only be performed in the Masters Lodge.
It matters not how strong nor how efficient the Grand Lodge of California may be, it can only suggest and direct in a general.way. The final
answer as to whether the candidate becomes just another member or a
Master Mason in fact, as in name, is the responsibility of the Masters
Lodges, for there, of necessity, he must receive all the understanding of
Freemasonry that can be conferred upon him. Once again upon the
leadership of the men who are assembled here today depends the fulfillment of that most important Masonic duty.
When one labors in the Masters Lodge. the vineyard of Freemasonry,
he devotes himself not only to the building of the Temple of Masonry
but more so to the ultimate moral. spiritual and political welfare of all
mankind.
He who lives and labors only for his own selfish desires is indeed
poor and without honor among men.
To. strive to make men better and wiser in the "truth" is the noblest .
of virtues; and when one labors in the Masters Lodge he exercises that
virtue in the fullest measure, for he is working in the service of the
greatest institution eve~ conceived for the enlightment of mankind.
. .To enlighten men is to bestow upon them mental. moral and spiritual
"light" and this is in "truth" the avowed purpose of Freemasonry. for
"light" as all Master Masons know symbolizes knowledge and wisdom
_and understanding of the "truth".
To impart "light" one must first acquire "light". Let the "light" ·be
diffused in every Masters Lodge that it may shine in the hearts of all
Master Masons and thus enlighten the world.
We have stressed the great importance of our labors in the Masters
Lodge: the diffusion of "the light", which ever shines in our Lodge
· rooms, and of the vital necessity to make of each initiate a Master Mason
·in ·fact as in name. It is well, therefore, that we should define the title

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

145

that only we can bestow; determine what constitutes a true Master
Mason and evaluate the results of thus attaining our desired objective.
That ancient and honorable title itself is the key to the answer.
In the Operative Craft a Master Mason is one who has perfected
himself as an artisan in the building of Temples and great buildings of
stone and brick and other material substances, and who controls and
directs the workmen in their labors thereon.
At this point you will remember that we no longer labor in Operative Masonry but in Speculative only, using the tools of an Operative
Craft to depict the great moral and spiritual lessons of a Speculative art
-a symbolic system, of teaching, as old as the recorded history of mankind.
A Master, therefore, is one who rules or commands, who subdues,
overcomes and conqu_ers something by physical, mental or moral force.
A Mason is one who builds. in the Operative Craft a building perchance:
but in the Speculative art in which we engage he builds a man.
Through his acceptance and deep study of our beautiful ritual with
its explanatory lectures, and with a full understanding of the ancient
symbols of Freemasonry, and most important of all, of the full and true
significance of the legend of the Third Degree, the initiate has acquired
the necessary moral and spiritual strength to conquer and overcome the
sensual and material passions of hatred and envy and greed and avarice,
love of power over men, pride of opinion and intolerance ·toward and
hatred of men because of their race or their political or religious opinions
and ·beliefs, and all of the kindred evils which beset men from the cradle
to the grave in their journey along the rough and rugged highway of
life.
Having attained the victory in that battle he is in fact a Master
Mason-master and ruler over himself: and as the Master Craftsmen
of King Solomon's time erected a beautiful material temple with the tools
of their craft, he has used the tools of a speculative art-wisdom and
knowledge and understanding-to build within himself, within his material. earthly body, a beautiful spiritual temple.
He is master of himself, he has builded his temple: and through his
knowledge and understanding of the "truth" he has become worthy of
the title we conferred upon him.
The "truth" is that immutable or never changing law laid down in
the beginning by the Supreme Grand Master of us all for the guidance
of all mankind. It is just' as certain in its operation and in its cause and
effect as the law which governs the sun, the moon and all the planets in
their course in the firmament above.
Serene and confident in his understanding of the "truth" the Master
Mason walks uprightly before his God and his fellow man. He neither
·bows his head nor bends his knee in obeisance to any man for he pays
that homage only to Him in whom he put his trust, for the "light" from

147

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the "truth" shines within him and he is spiritually a free man-a Master
Mason.
Through his knowledge of this divine attribute, "the truth", one of
the three principal tenets of Freemasonr y, he has developed his power
of understand ing-that power with which men think and ponder and
reason, and thus arrive at just and honest opinions on all subjects pertaining to life here an earth and on that future existence which Freemasonry proclaims and teaches. All animals possess the five powers of
seeing, hearing, feeling, smelling and tasting; but man, alone, of all the
creatures on this earth, ascending the seven steps, possesses the sixth
power of understandi ng; and through the seventh power of speech which,
also, he alone possesses, he conveys to future generations his knowledge
and his understandi ng for their welfare and advancemen t.
Through his knowledge of "the truth" he denies the divine right of
any ecclesiastical power, of whatever denomination, to dictate what
men shall think, and thus to proscribe all religions and faiths except their
own man-created doctrine which may or may not contain the "truth".
He demands the right to worship the God of his faith, in tlie church of his
choice, and in accord with the dictates o.f his own conscience; and he
grants this same right to all men, and defends it to the utmost.
He also denies the divine right of king, prince, potentate, ·dictator,
or tyrant by whatever title, to rule and govern men without the consent
of the governed, and proclaims and demands the right of men to a voice
in the enactment of all laws under which they must live.
From the Master Mason's knowledge of the sad record of education,
or rather lack o.f education o.f the people WMn undertaken under the
domination of private institutions in the centuries passed, he recognizes
that free public schools maintained by public funds are a vital and necessary factor in the successful continuance of any free government, for
from the schools of today come the citizens o.f tomorrow; and only in the
free public schools, uninfluenced by any ulterior motive, can students and
pupils learn to think, free and untrammeled by the insertion in the curriculum of teachings and doctrines which are not democratic and which
have as their objective the perpetuation of a religious doctrine above
the true doctrine o.f free men. He knows that the free public schools are
Masonic, and that as such they should ever be protected and defended
from those subversive elements that would destroy them.
The true Master Mason knows from his interpretatio n of the ritual
and the legend o.f the Third Degree that the Great Architect o.f the
U~iverse create~ man spiritually free, that though despots and tyrants
might enslave his corporeal being, place him in chains, cast him in the
darkest dung~n, or .t.o~ture his body with the whip or on the rack, yet
man would still be spmtually free-free to think and to reason and decide, and to commune with his Creator through that spark of the divine
wisdom with which all men, sons of a common Father, are endued and

who willed it thus. Even in the dungeons and the chains o.f tryanny he
reasoned through his power of understandi ng that if his God made him
spiritually free, he must have of necessity willed that men should be
materially free.
From that divine truth comes the great doctrine of the Fatherhood
of God, the brotherhood of man and the right to freedom of all mankind which we teach in our Lodge rooms now. Upon that doctrine rests
all that has been declared previously in this address, for without spiritual
and material freedom man is devoid of the power of free speech: he has
lost the right to act in accordance with the dictates of his own heart,
and his power to reason has been destroyed. He is indeed as an animal
with no conception of God, no feelings of brotherhood and no ideals of
freedom.
Men lived in terror and bondage and ignorance, century upon century, and only because men who believed in the truth were willing to
suffer untold tortures and the agonies of a living death, and to die upon
the field of battle by the hundreds of thousands, are we meeting here
today as free men and as free Masons.
The lamp of freedom burned dimly in some of the Grecian states
about 500 B.C., the days of the great philosophers, but it was extinguished and destroyed by the tyrants of the Grecian and Roman Empires. Darkness then prevailed for over a thousand years principally
because men were held in spiritual and material bondage through an
unholy alliance o.f church and state.
The lamp of liberty, the light from the "truth", was lighted again in
the 13th century on the British Isles. It came to us through the men who
learned it there, and here it has grown and grown until its light illumines
the world. It is a priceless heritage; and in a dosing paragraph, I like
to describe it thus:
From the knowledge acquired-of the "truth" in the ages past, we live
in the present: and in living as free men in the present, we
freedom
in
build for the future and for generations as yet unborn.
It is a sacred heritage given by God to man.
In this day and age it is ours, but only so long as we have the will and
the courage to defend and retain it.
Its destiny is in our hands. Let it not be written on the pages of history that this priceless gift from our Heavenly Father to His children,
and which means so much to us and to the ages yet to come, was
abridged or destroyed in our time.

146

The Oration was received with a standing ovation.
On motion of Past Grand Master Ellsworth Meyer, the Grand Secretary was authorized to have the Oration printed and distributed to the

w_

.

148

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODOB OF CALIFO.RNIA

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON
34th ANNU AL
OBSER VANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOO LS WEEK

the school authoriti es, througho ut the State, last June. informing them
of the date and the continue d use of the slogan, "THE PUBLIC
SCHOO L-AN AMERI CAN HERITA GE." We hope you will bear
these dates in mind and plan your participation now. It has been found,
over the years, that the successful Committees start early. This is also
one of the reasons why our Committee suggests you keep a running file
of Public Schools Week materials for use in succeeding years, and also
that the members of your committee be so rotated that you will always
have a nucleus of the previous year's Committee to assist you in getting
under way.
Our Committee receives much correspondence suggesti ng militant
action on the part of Grand Lodge Committee, regardin g varied school.
problems. We wish to remind each of you .that the Grand Lodge Committee was formed, not to endeavo r to correct all of the schools' problems,
but rather to encourag e the citizens of each community to visit the public.
schools -to determine conditio ns--and to take whateve r action they
·
deem necessar y, as public-spirited citizens.
d, we have, over
concerne
is
ee
Committ
Lodge
Grand
the
Insofa.r as
of being nonee
Committ
a
as
position
a
ed
maintain
the years,
political. non-religious and non-cont roversial in our actions. As long as
we maintain this position we can give the Public Schools the support
which they so justly deserve, and at the same time seek and secure the
support of local organiza tions, and citizens who think as we do.
The Grand Lodge Committee has received many praisewo rthy suggestions from the Lodge Committees. We cannot always use them effectively, due to our physical limitations. We hope that our Committee's
membership can be sufficiently expande d to be of greater assistanc e to
Lodge Committees. Efforts are being exerted in that direction. J954
Will be the year in which we will observe Public Schools Week for the
35th time. This surely is a milestone, and should be an inspiration to
each of us to put forth greater effort to make the 35th ANNUA L
OBSER VANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOO LS WEEK so outstand ing it
Will be long remembered.
My sincere thanks to the members of our Grand Lodge Committee
who have supporte d this program so unse16shly and untiringly. To each
of you, the many educator s and local organizations, who have made our
successful Public Schools Week possible, our grateful thanks.
We recommend the continua nce of the Public Schools Week Committee, and ask approval of an appropri ation of $3500.00 for the use of
the Committee during the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
The report of the 34th annual observan ce of Public Schools Week
has be~n printed, a?d copies of the section which will become a part of
the written proceedings of Grand Lodge will be distribut ed to those who
desire copies after today's session.
It has been our practice in the past not to discuss, in the short time
allotted to us, the printed report: instead to present other matters which
the Committee would like to bring before the members of Grand Lodge.
This year we will follow the same procedure.
It has been very gratifyin g to our Committee to receive so many
excellent reports from local Committees, indicating a vastly improved
observance. We have arranged a display of all reports received, in Polk
Hall, of this Auditorium. We hope you will take time te> review these
presenta tions and to benefit from the resulting exchang e of ideas .
. It is regrettab le, on the other hand, to find it necessar y to state, to
this Grand Lodge, that several Lodges in this jurisdiction have failed to
s~nd in their reports. They have been required, as in the past, to make
known to the Committee their activities, so that their Grand Lodge
record will indicate active participa tion.
During the past year we have had a great increase of correspo ndence
with s~hool authoriti es througho ut the state. There is an apparent need
of assistance, on the part of the schools, in the way of source materials
a~d support .in building attendan ce at the school program s. We hope,
with the assistanc e of the Lodge Committees, to furnish the support
necessar y to fill this need.
Each year a great number of Lodge Committees request additiona l
material, or inform us that question naires and other material have not
been received. There are too many such cases to blame the Post Office.
We have become convinced that much of this material is lost within the
Lodge. W, ~ ask that every effort be made, on the part of the recipients
of our mailings, to see that the material is placed promptly in the hands
of the Committee Chairma n.
. There have been times when mailings from the Grand Lodge Committee are delayed. Some Lodges have used this as an excuse for not
makrn:g announc ements in their monthly bulletins. If the suggeste d
bulletin copy was never received we believe that the Committees are
furnished ample basic material with which to prepare many messages
to their brethren . All that we need is the will to do it.
Traditio nally the observan ce each year is held starting with the
fou~th Monday in April, which means that the J954 Observa nce will be
during the week of April 26th through May 1st. A letter was sent to

GEORGE D. GAVIN, Chairman

For the Committee
Finance.
on
ee
Referred to Committ

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Committee
on
Thirty-fourth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week
San Francisco, October 12, 1953
To the M. W. Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
"1:?e n~!11ber of people attending each year seems to be getting
larger • • . attendance largest ever attained in history of schools" , .•
Hlargest visitation to the classrooms experienced in this area" •.. "School
superintendents state that the program arranged and the publicity given
was the best that they had ever experienced" ••• "50% more visitors
registered at the various schools during the week than the number of
enrolled students" .•. "this year's observances saw greater attendance,
increased enjoyment, and better understanding of the role of the public
schools, by the parents and patrons of the public schools in this area ..•. "
The above excerpts taken from individual lodge reports, reveals the
overall outstanding success of Public Schools Week in . California for
1953.
Local committees reveal an ever increasing cooperative effort, careful
planning, promotion, and follow-through in their individual communities,
resulting in these significant new tren~s and developments:
1. More lodges and districts combined their efforts and report, resulting
in more effective and meaningful observances in their communities.
"I flrmly believe that each Masonic District should collectively hold
their meetings, as have our ... district. It was much easier for all
concerned, and the quality of the program was of the highest."
" ... worked together on Public Schools Week activities ... and a great
deal more interest and enthusiasm was realized ... a good plan to continue the coordinated efforts of all the Lodges in a district in working as
a unit on this program." ( District officers already appointed for next
year!)
"~ .. put program before more individuals than probably could have been
done by individual lodges."
2.- A closer tie with school officials and community business and professional people, resulting in an unusual community spirit and interest in
putting over the Observance.
One superintendent states: "We feel that there was more real genuine interest in our school programs this year than ever before. More
people visited our schools and became acquainted with our program
and problems than in any of the years immediately past. This seems
to me to be a very healthy sign and reflects the flne spirit of visitation
and cooperation on the part of your own organization and other
people in the community."
"School district superintendents stated that the program we arranged

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

151

and the publicity given was the best that they had ever experienced"
" ••• largest visitation to the classroom experienced."
3. Desire on the part of individual lodges to start plans early, perpetuate
local steering committees, maintain active Public Schools Week flies, and
initiate new ideas each year, as well as improving on the old ones, in an
effort to improve even the high standard Observances.
"Continuation of efforts to get a bigger crowd, as the program is well
worthwhile."
"If we make use of all the material sent us . . . and start early in
planning next year's observance, we will have a successful observance.''
"Aggressive planning in each community should bring excellent results as it has in ours.''
Wish to ... "Employ every means at our command to encourage and
illuminate the art of teaching.''
A good idea .•. "A year round committee for each lodge."
"Much of our planning is completed in October for the next year.''
"It is essential that Grand Lodge supply the fundamentals. It is also
essential that the spirit be carried forward every day and all the time
and accentuated during this one week.''
4. Promotion and publicity ideas show use of the State slogan-"The
PUBLIC SCHOOL-An American Heritage," IN ACTION, with increased child participation in events, resulting in attendant parent interest in curriculum and school problems, and their accompanying responsibilities.
"Program enthusiastically received by those observing the the accomplishments of the various grades.''
·
"This year's observance saw greater attendance, increased enjoyment, and better understanding of the role of the public school, by
the parents and patrons of the public schools in this area."
"I was particularly happy because the attitude of the public was a
receiving one-not a critical one."
"The interest of the people was definitely demonstrated by the numbers of people who attended.''
"The best turn-out we've ever had. It is very gratifying to have such
a splendid turn-out to our open house, indicating the interest of the
people in the community in their schools."
"From my observation of attitudes and interest, and from parent expression, I believe Public Schools Week this year was a great sue..
cess."
5. Thus, general recognition that the Grand Lo°dge objective is to obtain community-wide participation.
·
6. Fewer basic misconceptions are revealed in the reports. The Committee attempts to correct those remaining in another section of this report.
W Other phases of the 34th Annual Observance of Public Schools
eek are reported in the topics following:

152

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PROCLAMATIO NS
"The Public Schools -

I

A.n A.me,rican Heritage"

Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren Grand Master proclaimed:
"In our troubled world today the struggle between the forces of
darkness and light, slavery and freedom has reached a critical point.
And as this struggle grows in scope we can all be truly grateful for
the depth of enlightenment that prevails among our people. Only in
free men and women is there to be found true courage, wisdom and
understanding, for they are free because they willed it so.
"The Public School which our forefathers founded so wisely and
made an integral part of our national life, is the very lamp of this
freedom. Like all lamps it required tending and Masonry again will
provide this care in its own inspired 34th annual Public Schools
Week observance."
Governor Earl Warren's proclamation emphasized the importance
of public interest, understanding and cooperation in the sol1Jtion of problems of California's tremendou.sly increased population in the schools.
Governor Warren said in part:
"The public school system in California goes back literally to the
very beginnings of our State. California's first constitution-draw n
by a convention meeting in Monterey only a few months after the
discovery of gold-made provision for a system of public education.
"The progress of our public schools from that small beginning
to the vast educational system we have today has not been easy. It
has required the cooperative efforts of State and local officials, the
active int-erest of parents and of citizens generally, and the energy
and devotion of public-spirited men and women who have been willing to devote th~ir lives to the teaching profession._
"In recent years we have had to face tremendous problems in
the administration of our schools, as in many other activities of government, because of California's unprecedented increases in population. We have learned that the solution of these problems is only
possible when there is public interest, understanding and cooperation. Such public support is likewise essential to encourage those in
the teaching profession.
"The best demonstration of such support is for each citizen to
become familiar with the public school system and to keep in touch
with it."
Proclamations were issued by mayors of cities and towns throughout
the State.
The three heads of the York Rite Bodies sent proclamations to the
subordinate bodies requesting no meetings to be held during the week
that would conflict with the Observance. They state in part:

153

''Let us not forget that if we are to preserve and perpetuate this .
heritage of a non-partisan, non-sectarian, efficient and democratic
system for the children of all people, inculcating patriotism with an
undying loyalty to the Constitution of the United States of America,
respect for law and order and the entire separation of church and
state, we must support that institution which is the foundation upon
which this country has grown-our 'Public Schools'."
Grand Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star, sent a letter to its members, asking them to individually cooperate with local committees in
charge of Public Schools Week programs, and give every effort to make
the Observance a success.
Official civic individuals and groups, industries, state-wide and local
organizations recognized the Observance by formal resolutions.
Both Houses of the California Legislature formally recognized the
Observance by the following Resolution introduced into the Senate on
April 15, 1953, and adopted by the Assembly and Senate on April 20, '
1953.
Senate Concurrent Resolution No 59-Relative to the observance of
Public Schools Week.
"WHEREAS, our forefathers in their wisdom at the time of the
Constitutional Convention, held in Monterey 1849, provided for
the establishment of a Public School System in Article IX of that
historic document: and
WHEREAS, The public school in the United States has always
been a living symbol of our life since earliest Colonial times: and
WHEREAS, Public education has been recognized since pioneer times as an imperative preparation for the responsibilities of
citizenship in our free and democratic Country: and
WHEREAS, The complexity of local, state, national and international responsibilities of citizenship make grave demands today
on our people: and
WHEREAS, The thirty-fourth annual Public Schools Week
which will be held April 27th to May 2nd will be presented for
the purpose of bringing the public and the schools into a closer
understanding of the functions and problems of the schools today:
now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assembly
thereof concurring, That this Legislature does hereby endorse the
purposes of Public Schools Week and urges on our citizens the
\risiting of one or more schools during the week of April 27th to
May 2nd for the purpose of seeing what the schools are doing in
preparing our youth for the responsibilities of intelligent and use·
ful citizenship."

154

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The State Department of Education, in addition to inclusion of
Public Schools Week in the official Calendar of Educational Meetings
and Events for 1953, Roy E. Simpson, Superintenden t of Public Instruction, addressed the following message, quoted in part, to Californians: (March, 1953 issue, "California Schools," monthly official publication of the California State Department of Education.) ·
"Emphasis in this year's observance should be placed upon
sound educational services in light of the rapid growth in popu..
lation. Particular attention should be paid to the results of this
growth as they relate to public schools.
"Public Schools Week provides splendid opportunity to show
the progress of the educational program in the community. Parents and friends of the schools are entitled to a clear explanation
of the objectives, practices, and accomplishments of classrooms at
all levels from kindergarten through the junior college.

•

155

ful for the active participation of not only Mason~, bu~ othe.r lay groups
whose valuable partnership school people in California enJoy. Quoted
in part. he said:
"There has come to my desk an impelling booklet, distrib~ted
throughout California by the Grand Lodge of Masons. It is a
"Guide for Planning Public Schools Week" and "Its History and
Objective."
"Inside is material for which every teacher and every child in
California's public schools should be grateful. For it bespeak~ t~e
conviction~not only of Masons, but of many another ~atriotic
group-that free public education is inextric~?ly woven mto the
American pattern of democratic government.

OTHER GRAND LODGE JURISDICTI ONS

"Attention should be focused upon the training for American
citizenship.

The Grand Lodge of Texas reported results attained during Pu~lic
Schools Week were far greater than anticipated, and that the partici-

"The Public Schools Week program that is effective in building community understanding and goodwill is one that is carefully
planned. School administrators should co-operate with local
leaders in organizing committees and in planning the many specifics which are a part of a broad observance program.

pation, statewide, was very good.
M. W. John McKee, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Texas.
't
· 1953 , " ..... we are now starting to lay plans for the 1954
wnes1n
program. You will never know how we in this Grand jurisdiction appre..
date your assistance."
Th Grand Lodge of Arizona this year reports their fourth Public
Schoolse Week Observance, and has sent this committee a copy o f 1'ts
suggestions for Masters. We quote the following passages:

"The public school has been and is an important influence
in the development of California and the West. Its accomplishments are a matter of public record. Its influences are shown in
the chronicles of achievement which have been written by hundreds of thousands of its products-the men and women of this
and previous generations. That the people of California hold
abiding faith in education is exemplified in their continuing and
generous support of public education. It is upon this great tra..
dition that the public schools of California look in 1953 to the
critical challenges which lie ahead.
"This partnership of school and community, projected a decade, a generation, a half century ahead, will insure the rights and
privileges of a great state and a great America to all of Cali..
fornia' s children and youth. Public Schools Week-1953- presents this challenge to all citizens and communities of California."
The California Teacher's Association, in its official publication
(April, 1953 issue) in a message from Executive Secretary Arthur F.
Corey, commended the Grand Lodge Committee's booklet, "Guide for
Planning," and asked all teachers and educational officials to be grate-

"The ideas here suggested are the result of many years' experience in other jurisdictions and can be adapted to any community.... In the appointment of this committee there must be
kept in mind the fact that the observance of Public Scho~ls W e~k
is not exclusively a Masonic event, but a community affair.
Wherever possible the committee should include representatives
of not only the school people, but also of the Parent-Teache r
Associations, American Legion, the service clubs and the other
civic organizations in the community...• It must be their observance as well as ours."
We wish these jurisdictions continued success in their Public Schools
Week observances.

156

GRAND LODGE COMMIT fEE
INFORMA TIONAL ACTIVIT IES
for
34TH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE, (1953)
1.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

J:1nuary 19, 1953 Letter No. 1. to all Masters, 34th Annual Public Schools Week Observance, incorporatin g:
a. Early Organizatio n of Committees
b. The Date
c. Community Participatio n
d. The Slogan
e. Notification of new printed materials to come
f. Lodge participation
g. Local proclamations
h. Lodge.repor ts to the Grand Lodge
i. Suggested copy for Lodge bulletins (On separate sheet).
2. January 26, 1953, Proclamation by the Grand Master, 34th
Annual Observance of Public Schools Week.
3. February 10, 1953, Letter to county, city and district superintendents of schools and Presidents of Teachers Clubs i
..
porating:
• ncor
a. The Date
b. Scope of the General Committee's program
c. List of mailings to local committees: Guide to Planning
Press Book, Radio-TV Booklet, Speaker's Manual
'
4. February 17, 1953, Memorandu m for Chairmen, Public Schools
Week.
a. Use of metered mail
5. February 19, 1953, Guide for Planning, and accompanying explanatory flier mailed to each Lodge.
6. l'._i~rch 21'.1953, Radio-TV Booklet sent to each radio and telev1s1~n station in California, with an accompanyi ng letter on the
stationery of the Vice-Presid ent and General Manager of KCBS.
7. ~arch 1~, 1953, Letter sent by the California Teachers Association to c~ty •. county, and district superintend ents, Union high
school p~inc1pals. and Presidents of local teachers' clubs, urging
coop~ation between school people and lay people interested in
Pubhc Schools Week.
·
a. Contact with local Masonic chairman, service club contacts etc
8. March 24, 1953, Letter to all Masters explaining an enclosed ki~
of materials which included: The New Speaker's Manual p
B~k. Radio-TV Booklet. statement from Roy E. Simpson'( s:~:
J?1rector of Public Education). suggested copy for Lodge Bulletins, the questionnaire form.

157

9.

June 1, 1953, Letter to all City, county, and district superintendents of schools, Union high school principals, and Presidents
of local teachers' clubs, congratulati ng them on the 34th Public
School Week Observance . and including the date for the 1954
Observance . (April 26 through May 1, 1954).
10. Continuous contact with State government, industrial, educa..
tional. service, labor and other organizations, to implement Juris..
diction ..wide, formal recognition and participation in our Annual
Observance .
11. Continuous specialized news releases for wire services, national
magazines, radio..TV networks.
12. Preparation and distribution of informational kits for all pub ..
licity sources, educational. government, citizens groups and organizations.
13. Letter sent to fraternal groups announcing Public Schools Week
Observance date and asked scheduled cooperation to avoid con..
flicting activities.
14. Letter to all Masters. reporting the 34th Observance of Public
Schools Week, and incorporatin g:
a. Appreciatio n and thanks to them and to chairmen, informing
them of the letter to school officials.
b. Date (and why) of the 35th Annual Observance .
c. State slogan for the 35th Annual Observance .
d. Reminder that 34th Annual reports were overdue from some
lodges.

Construct ive Suggestions, Outstandi ng Examplea,
New Anglea
"Send any material that might further our educational programs in the
community."
"Find a way of financing state-wide and region ..wide radio and television publicity."
..Bach district should set up a committee whereby lodges of a district
could work in unison."
"Suggest a program · be developed to lure more parents to the high
school."
'"Have classrooms open and operating •..."
"This committee had a great deal of success by using a committee to per..
sonally contact the public."
•'Window cards that could be sent to any lodge in California."
..Suggest that each lodge initiate one new idea per year to encourage
. further interest."

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Suggest contac tin g a screen serv1'ce corporation and have standard
theater announcements made. Lodges or committees could purchase
same at a nominal cost."
"Carry over part of the (local) committee from Y~.ar to year-to have
the advice of those who served the year before.
"We feel that the poster idea (contests) may be valuable. It promotes
interest in the students, who in turn consult the parents and teachers.
The displaying acquaints the general public."
"Ribbons distributed to store clerks and worn on clothing did a greiit
deal to help publicize Public Schools Week."
"A documentary film dramatizing the .history of Public Schools in the
United States and its significance in our national life would be a
good feature for presentation at meetings of civic groups."
"Make standard posters and advertising mats available at the reduced
price possible through volume buying."
.
·
"Preparation and distribution by Grand Lodge ~f umform placard~.
bumper strips. or auto stickers to be used to remind the general public
of Public Schools Week."
"Bulk purchase of such items as pos~.ers, car cards, bumper strips . . ·
by one agency might save money.
"Suggest contests and awards for most expressive window displays and
a means of stimulating interest."
"Establishing a clearing house in ... area so that each school would be
sponsored by a Masonic Lodge."
"That a scholarship fund be established to be available to the Public
Schools Week Committee, for a poor and deserving student."
"Include an outline of procedure to follow in getting more active.. par..
ticipation of other organizations in planning of the Observance.
Exceptional results have again been achieved by lodges organizing
within districts, some of them capitalizing on successes of many years
experience with united effort, others reporting outstanding results o.n
"8.rst tries" in combining several lodges, or districts. The scope of this
integrated effort can only be fully recognized. by a study of their large
volume reports. (On display at Annual Meeting of Grand Lodge.)
Many of the lodge combinations broke down into committees to
cover various phases of the Observance, and obt~ined unusu~lly. fine end
results. Rosters of civic, business, and professional orgamzations and
leaders were evolved, personal contact enlisted their aid to create a
community..wide spirit of observance for the 1953 Public Schools Week.
Lapel badges, posters, street banners and sidewalk stencil~, car..window
stickers, car bumper strips, store window placards and displays, essay
and poster contests in the schools, production of school calendars of
events, radio..TV coverage, and complete newspaper presentations, were
some of the promotional ideas initiated and followed through in metic.-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

159

ulous detail. A breakdown of one committee went something like this:
clippings, posters, speakers, newspapers, window displays, open house
committee.
At the close of Public Schools Week, committees conscientio~ly
sent letters of congratulation s and "thank you's" to all community groups,
and individuals who cooperated in the success of the event, and have
thus established a firm foundation of cooperation and rapport with these
organizations for future years.
One lodge reported that in contacting their newspaper, there was
such enthusiasm that a "Back to School" coverage took place, with a
photographer in every school during Public Schools Week.
An outstanding example of community-wide spirit and cooperation
was shown by one lodge whose city devoted an entire edition of its
newspaper to Public Schools Week. Each advertiser plugged the pub..
lic schools, and every phase of the paper had something of constructive
value to say regarding the public schools. The local committee sparked
the idea with its copy of "The Press Book."
Another lodge attempted a "school survey" for the first time, achiev..
ing a high standard of success. Each school visited was surveyed for
personnel. physical conditions, number of teachers, bonding, condition
of buildings, enrollment in relation to available space, transporatation
systems, etc.. and reported on a survey form. The survey forms were
then compiled into a general report of the area facilities. This gave a
clear picture of school conditions, and alerted the membership and com ..
munity to needs of their local public schools.
The sponsorship of poster, essay, and window display contests stimu..
lated community interest to the utmost. An increasing number of lodges
employed this method of promotion for the first time, and "old..timers"
report even bigger and more successful events of this nature.
Movie trailers held the spotlight in several areas, and met with ex ..
ceptional success.
The publishing of school "calendars of events," highlighting all
programs during Public Schools Week in the community, was another
type of promotional device utilized by many lodges. These were dis ..
tributed among the membership and civic organizations of the 'area.
Everyone knew just what was going on, and as a result an excellent
turn..out for Public Schools Week ensued.

A.ll in the Viewpoint -

Tart and Sweet

Ninety five percent of the reports indicated in individual comment
that Grand Lodge Committee material was of value as a whole, or as
adapted to fit local programs. However, all viewpoints must be analyzed,
and this topic is, of value in clearing questions and misconceptions that
have arisen. It is impossible in a jurisdiction of over 600 lodges, to clarify

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

160

.
ions that appear in each individual requestions and correct mlsconcept ll t the attention of Masters and
t This section. directed especia y o
t~alrmen endeavors to serve in that respect.
d U D
•th no past experience to
"This being a lo ge h · · =~ial furnished by the GenSWEET
er, t e ma bl
..
g uide us whatsoev
.t
as indispen sa e to us.
eral .C omm1t ee w
d r nsiderable help in formu"Materia l excellent, an o co
lating our program."
. ..
d f helpful hints coming·
"Keep the same tren o
thin from the wealth
"If any committee cannot get sbomeh Gg nd Lodge cQmd 'd
y t e ra
of materia1s an 1 e~sl given
. d d your help was greatly
mittee, they are steri e in ee .
apprecia ted."
. ..
rticularly in a large community.
1
f
"Very help u • pa
df
d it ftt our need exactly.
"Used all material sent an oun
Continue the same."
.
· 1
eralized."
TART . . . "All printed mfatlerb1a too wgehnere
· it would be in a small com" Not too help u, ut see
munity."
.
but a few week s earlier."
.. Send literature same as t h is
year . d
..
·
way.
(used material s) · · · "I n a ve ry liD11te
I" ..
"Get materials out one month ear ier.

.
·
and Questio n• • • •
Clarification of Misconc
eption~
"
"Materials Not Receiv ed• • •

· d for 1953.
f lodges reported materials not receive
Less t an
o o
reveals these explanat ions:
Individual study of these reports
d
t pass the infor.d.
M ter or Secretary• oes no
1. Past or pres1 mg as h .
Ing Master or Chairma n.
mational materials on to t e mcom
Material was received but NOT READ.
2.
h Grand Lodge Committee attempts to preThrough out the year• t e
.
.
.
vent these situations from occurring by.
. 1
·th
·1·ng dates of all mater1a s, w1
1. Sending letters announfcing ~a1 i nd its adaptabi lity to individan analyses of such in orma ion, a
ual, current, local situations.
.
d
d.
receipt of materials, an
2. Sending follow-up ledtterds rellgar 1:! orders with Grand Lodge
asking that lodges in ivi ua y p
.
.
copies are desired.
1
Committee w hen a dd'tional
h

1~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

161

Reaaons /or Report • • • •
Though less than in previous years, many lodges who undoubt edly
did fine work will have no permane nt record in the Grand Lodge proceedings report. Many lodges left queries blank, listed no comment under "other service organiza tions participa ting," or answered queries with
terse comments which do not reveal the local program presented, for
example: Helpful....very good.... not especially.... sufHcient.... excellpit....
all very good....yes....very much.... observance not a success .... .
On the other hand, an overwhelming n~mber of lodges reported in
detail. either individually or by lodge group or district, and the reports
presente d were models of organization and planning which showed
great pride in lodge and district accomplishment.
The Grand Lodge Committ ee again refers to its letter of instruction
sent to all Masters, dated March 23, 1953, and has checked ( * ) paragraphs most often queried in individual reports received.
Letter dated March 23, 1953:
"The Grand Master requires Annual report from the General Committee of Grand Lodge on Public Schools Week Observance, showing
the participation of each Lodge. In . our first letter to you announcing
the program, your attention was called to this requirement. We enclose
a questionnaire which will assist you in the preparat ion of your report.
"If you will give particula r attention to the following items you can
greatly reduce the work of our Committee:
*a. Send your report to us promptly. but in any event, by May 31st.
*b. Paste an clippings to sheets ( 8,Yixl 1 ) as it is impossible for the
committee to handle, to advantag e, the thousand s of loose clippings received.
c. Include proclamations issued by Mayors or others, together with
copies of program s. pictures of displays. copies of special letterheads, quarter cards, samples of envelopes with postage meter
cancellations, newspap er advertisements that include mention of
the Observa nce, etc.
d. Share your successful ideas with others. Tell us what was done
and how. Furnish samples if any badges or other prepared features were used together with snapshot s of special attractio ns.
e. State very £rankly whether or not the materials we furnished
were of assistance. We realize that all items cannot fit the needs
of over 600 committees.
f. Tell us what we can do to make a better Observa nce next year.
Your suggesti ons will be carefully weighed and greatly appredated.
*g. If your Lodge joined with others in the Observance, you may
submit one complete report of clippings, program, etc., but state

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

162

on your questionnaire that this has been done. A ques.tionnai':,
however, is required from each Lodge. extra blank ~opies can e
secured by sending a post card request to the undesigned.
h. Mail you completed questionnaire and report to:
(Address Given)
G
dL d
i. your questionnaire and report will be displayed at ran
o ge
in October.
* . Keep a file for next year's Committee.
J·

2.

3.

The Date •••
The Public Schools Week Observance starts with the fourth Mo~da NOT the fourth week in April.
.
yThis is the traditional date evolved through past e~pen~nce hof ~choo1
uthorities and school schedules--avoidance of conflict with t e aste~
ad t
heduling not too close to the summer vacation, etc.-as reporte
a e, sc
f
.
1 t · 1
in the Grand Lodge Committee in ormatlona ma ena .
This establishment of a traditional date has been valuable over the
years because it lends continuity to the program, and sc~ool ant community officials expect and plan for the event at the same time eac year.

Start Earlier • • •
A

· this year immediate effort was made to announce the date
gl am f l954 35th Annual Public Schools Week Observance:
an d s ogan or
•
.
Letter to Masters, dated June 1, 1953:
April 26 through May 1st, 1954-"The Public School-An
American Heritage."
.

District Initiative •••
Again, may we stress the importance district initiative plays in the
'ty to
Observance:
.
d ·
1. Grand Lodge Committee functions m an a visory ~apaci .
local Lodges, presenting materials and expla~atory mforma~ion
for individual Lodge use. Materials of necessity are generahz~d
to meet the needs of the local situations of over 600 1:°'1ges 1D
the jurisdiction, all widely diverse in type. The data is off':[ed
as su estional material, and individual Lodges _ar_e ex~e~t~ .to
adap:~he materials to fit their needs. Again, individual '?'tiati~ft
·n the use of suggestions, coupled with aggressive planning. wi
~etermine the success of local Public .. Schools Week progr;m:·
Committee and chairman appointments are at the pleasure o .t e
local Master, as is the timing for start of ~ro~ra~ planm?g.
Grand Lodge Committee advises an early begi~nmg i~ planm~g
Public Schools Week, as far in advance as is consistent with
local situations.

4.

163

City-wide coordination of certain aspects of the program are
most effective: newspaper promotion, window displays, car
bumper strips, tags, tie-in ads, pamphlets, posters, window placards, street banners, radio-TV coverage, etc.
This affords the advantage of large quantity printing at low
cost, and uniformity in an area. Joint steering committees from
the several Lodges can take care of these particular aspects more
effectively and efficiently than can individual Lodges.
Masters and Wardens Asso~iations serving as clearing houses
in the large cities, are effective devices for coordinating joint activities.
Lodge sponsorship of schools, and general community and school
contacts and support can best be accomplished on an individual
Lodge basis.

Follow-through •••
Immediately following the close of the 1953 Observance, school authorities throughout the jurisdiction received information regarding next
year's dates, in order to make early provision for the event in their school
calendars-Grand Lodge Committee letter, dated June 1, 1953.
Acknowledgement of appreciation for this early data has already
been overwhelmingly noted from several school district officials.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Lodges were again most 'complimentary in pointing out the
splendid support given by the educational authorities, superintendents,
principals, faculty and individual teachers. Without their help the
observance of Public Schools Week could not attain its high standard
of success.
This Committee acknowledges with gratitude the unselfish support
given by individuals and members of National, State, and local organizations, who have participated in the 34th Annual Observance of Public
Schools Week.
We submit this partial list of acknowledgment, fully realizing its
incompleteness. The overwhelming number .of organizations lending
their support, reported by the individual Lodges, forces us to submit this
PARTIAL LIST OF APPRECIATIVE ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
Regretfully it cannot encompass all of those groups which gave of their
time so unselfishly.
.•. Newspapers of every size, from weeklies to great metropolitan
dailies gave freely of coverage and space to Public Schools Week pub-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. .
R d" nd TV networks gave generously of time. and produced
11oty. a io a
.
outstanding results in local areas.
d h h groups were equally
... Ministerial associations, pastors, an c urc

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTE E
ON 'CEREMONIES

164

cooperative.
b .
and industrial organizations went all out in
... Government. usmess,
support of the Observan~e. .
4 H Clubs and Future Farmers par... Many Grange organizations, •
ticipated.
W
• Clubs such as American As... Local. cultural. professiona1 Bome_n s and' Professional Womens
. .
f U · sity Women, usmess
sociation o
mver
T
.t
Clubs Native Daughters, an d
Club, Soroptomists, and oastmis ress
•
American Legion Auxiliaries. ffi . l . eluding local fire and police de. . . State, city, and county o cia s, m
partments and city ~ouncMilmehn. . d D ds' Clubs throughout the State.
P T A and various ot ers an
a
d . ddi
: : : I~d~st;ial and business organizations, .indivLdu~l fi~~p~~rs iO;tim:
tion Chamber of Commerce groups, American egion
•
ist, Civitans grou~s.b
f G'
Job's Daughters, Boy Scouts, Girl
... DeMolay, Ram ow or ir1s,
Scouts and High 12 Clubs.
Q
•
K·
·s Li'ons Exchange 20-30, Toastmasters and uota
. . . Rotary, iwam •
•
.
.
h ff rt
Clubs ave most generously of time and unsel6.s e o . .
.
g M
Odd Fellows, Scottish Rite, y ork Rite, Shm:~e Clubs,
. . . Elks, oose,
Ea
S
Kn 'ghts of Pythias.
B'nai Brith, Sciots, Order of the
stern tar,
i
.
of Public Schools
With the closing of the 34 th A nnua l Observance
•
f 11 th
Committee realizes, after studying the reports o a . e
Week. your . . d' . (
600) that this program has made satisLodges in the JUris iction over
•
h ff orts of the local comfactory and exceptional ~rogr~ss thr~ufo~ ~o:~nual and greater effort
mittees. We als.o ~ecogmze \~ti~:e of the Committee-T O OBTAIN
toward accompyhshWmlgDtEhePoAbJRTICIPATION-of all cities. in the obCOMMUNIT servance of Public Schools Week.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE D. GAVIN, Chairman
LoWELL K. BAIN
PERRY H. BARRETT
HARRY L. BUCKALEW
FORREST H. KECK
HERSHAL J. LAy
ROBERT A. ODELL
GEORGE K. PALMER
RoY L. SAWYERS
CLARENCE C. SMITH
THOMAS E. P. WooDs

165

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In accordance with the motion adopted at the annual communication
in 1950, Grand Master Paulsen appointed a special committee on ceremonies in 1951 and the committee reported to the 1951 communication
relative to the ceremony for the laying of a cornerstone, the ceremony
of instituting a new lodge, the ceremony of coristituting a lodge, the ceremony of dedicating a Masonic hall and that of presenting a fifty year
button.
Approximately five hundred changes, ranging from single words to
paragraphs, were recommended and adopted. The revised ceremonies
have been in use for two years and considerable favorable comment has
been made to the members of the committee relative to the changes effected. These comments have come from the officers performing the ceremonies. inspectors and brethren on the side lines. One change has been suggested to the committee, in the closing words of the presentation of a
fifty year button. The committee itself has reexamined all of these ceremonies and desires to recommend the change of one phrase in the ceremony for the laying of a cornerstone, add the new Master as an escort
of the Grand Master in the ceremony of institution, change one word in
the ceremony of constitution, add one word and change two others in
the dedication ceremony. change a preposition and one sentence in the
presentation of fifty year button and the brother who leads the salute.
We are refommending these changes at this time because the revised
ceremonies have not been printed as yet and we judge the time for printing to be at hand.
In the ceremony for the laying of a cornerstone, we recommend that
the words of the Deputy Grand Master, spoken after he has poured the
corn upon the stone, "May the Great Architect of the Universe ... "
(Proceedings, 1951, p. 148) be changed to: May our Heavenly Father
• , . This change is recommended because the architect appellation is
used by the Grand Master approximately one minute later and we believe
a difference will be more pleasing.
In the ceremony for instituting a new lodge we recommend that the
direction: " . . . the Grand Master shall enter without escort .•. "
(Proceedings, 1951, p. 150) be changed to: ... the Grand Master enters,
escorted by the Master named in the dispensation ... A further direction
should then be added: The Master takes a seat in the north east with
the two wardens.
In the ceremony of constituting a new lodge, we recommend that the
words of the .Grand Master: "The grand officers will repair to their stations ... " (Proceedings, 1951, p. 160) be changed to: The grand officers will return to their stations and places ...

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

166

167

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
mony. It is possible to arrang th an ~v~mfg for the installation cereand implements in advance aned a~ :~mi-circ. e of chairs, the collars, rods
mony. In the grand lodge certain e ap~omted ho~r to begin the cereSection twelve of the constitutio pro~isions are laid down in our law.
ed on the fifth day of the annuaf:~:de~ th~t the officers shall be elect18 79 (Ross Digest sec 82 ) d
uhmcabon, a resolution adopted in
h
·
· 2 ecrees t at th I ·
e. e e~tion s all be the first
order of business on the day fixed b th
contains the proviso that the ffi y he ~onstitution and section twelve
of the annual communication oE:ers s a be i.ns~all~d before the close
the ordinances that no appr. . t~ept fr the limitation in section 71 of
election of officers, except u~pria i~n o money shall be made after the
tion on the transaction of bus?n a b ree-fourths vote.' there is no limitaExperience has demonstratedi~~:~ ·t~w~en th~ election and installation.
even as late as Thursday night of ~h~s :::ossi~le ~o accurately predict,
hour of the installation In
mumcation week, the precise
ten o'clock in the morning ar:~e:: 'fa.~ars itf has ~een st~rted as early as
At whatever hour the ceremon b . e ~s our o clock m the afternoon.
and a fraction days of rather y egms, itdfollows upon the heels of four
It is no criticism of the cere;~~ce~trate w~rk by those in attendance.
when all present feel tired a d ih ol re~ogmze t~at it occurs at a time
all other work has been compl:ted. e et- own which is inevitable when
it is the usual practice to set aside

In the ceremony for the dedication of a Masonic hall, we recommend
that the word "reverently" be added in the statement of the Grand Master (Proceedings, 1951, p. 161 ) so that the Grand Master shall say: We
shall, therefore, reverently unite with our Grand Chaplain ... We further recommend that the direction of the Grand Master to the Grand
Marshal ( p. 162) be changed from: " ... you will uncover the emblem
... "to: ... you will prepare the emblem ... and" ... to their proper
places ... " be changed to: ... to their respective places . . .
.
Relative to the ceremony for the presentation of a fifty year button,
we recommend that the statement of the Master to the recipient (Proceedings. 1951, p. 166) use the word "fraternal" rather than "brotherly"
and the phrase will then be: ... this visible token of the fraternal love
and appreciation of your brethren. We further recommend that one
"from" be changed to "of" and the last sentence of the Master's said
statement be altered. This portion would then be: ..• This button is
made of the pure gold from the hills of California. It is emblematical of
that purity of life and conduct which should be displayed by Masons
whithersoever dispersed. It is also an emblem of the esteem with which
you are regarded and the affection in which you are held.
Finally. in this same ceremony we recommend that the direction that
the brethren will salute the recipient under the direction of the Marshal
be changed to: Master: Brethren, you will join with me in saluting our
brother by the battery of three times three.
Installation of Grand Lodge Officers
Your special committee herewith presents its report and recommendation relative to the ceremony of installing the elective and appointive officers of this grand lodge.
The ceremony used at the present time was compiled by Brother
J. W. Anderson and adopted in its original form in 1891. The manner
of installing these officers prior to that time is not known to your com-

This is the atmosphere in which h
.
.
a semi-circle of twenty eight h . .t ose m attendance must wait while
from those who have b~en c ~irs ~ arrang~d, the collars are gathered
tion and ordinances the r:'ciearmg td em,~ Bible, a book of the constituranged. This taokes time. The s~i;;'~[ t~ an b~ton are recovered and arA venue complicates these arra .
e room m the temple on Van Ness
ing and conducting of the offic:r~~:~~!~dn~l caus~s the procession, seated and less dignified than sh Id b h ua Y or m groups, to be crowdwould cease to be a problem ~: thi e t d~ c~se. Alt~ough lack of space
other problems would remain.
s au itormm or m a new temple, the

mittee.
During the intervening sixty-two years since 1891, numerous additional officers have been seated in grand lodge and additions have been
made to the ceremony. The most recent changes were in 1947 when the
•Assistant Grand Lecturers and the Assistant Grand Treasurer were

your committee is realistic a d
.. 1 .
hour, fatigue, human nature and ~h not cribca when it observes that the
lead each retiring Grand M t . e length of the present ceremony have
~:lii~::~n~years to take some short cuts.
each different, and none
presently written.
e t e complete ceremony as it is

seated for the first time.
At the present time the ceremony substantially resembles the installation of officers in .a constituent lodge and. the duties of corresponding officers are given, generally. in substantially the same language. Incidentally, the recitation of the duties of all officers from the Deputy Grand
Master through the Grand Tiler is taken almost verbatim from sections
thirty-nine through sixty-four of our ordinances and hence is to be found

your committee, therefore presents fo
. .
r your consideration a ceremony of installation which h •b
It has sought to avoid crow:i~ et~nopre:~red.with these factors in mind.
consideration the fact that f gt
se ~m( mstaHed. It has taken into
nearly one-half, usually hav~ oc~~n~ydeig t officers installed, thirteen,
ceding year or years.
pie the same office during the pre-

in the Ross Digest.
' Despite the nearly identical nature of the two ceremonies, they are
performed under quite different circumstances. In a constituent lodge,

h::

y our committee believes that the cer
h
h emony·s· ou~d not be so complex
as to require a rehearsal for th
ose w 0 are part1C1patm9 for the first time
.

.

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

nts of individuals from place to
it should not involve valueless moveme
should be smooth of movement.
place or exag gera tion s of speech. it
ressive. We believe that by having
simple in mechanics, dignified and imp
the alta r inst ead of immediately
the mas ter of ceremonies wor k wes t of
the sigh t and hearing of those on
in front of the Gra nd Mas ter's pede stal
we shall be more consistent with
the side lines will be bett er served and
the alta r and the stati on of the
our attit ude tow ard the area betw een
atte nda nce will be increased and
Gra nd Mas ter. It is our opinion that
if the ceremony does not merely
the pleasure of the bret hren enha nced
nt lodge. If we may exp ress our
emulate the installation in a constitue
believe our bret hren would apthou ght in the lang uag e of the time, we
er than more of the same, whe n
preciate seeing something different, rath
they come to this installation.
ider atio n does not use the
The ceremony pres ente d for you r cons swo rds or the ban ner of
rods and
semi-circle of chairs, the carr ying of
the bear ing of the Bible, has long
with
as
r.
latte
the gran d lodge, whi ch
·
since been omitted by mutual consent.
installed,
ially
part
is
ter
Mas
nd
In the existing ceremony. the new Gra
his stati on and is then requ ired to
con duc ted to a chai r in the east beside
alled and until the retu rn to him
sit ther e while the othe r officers are inst
The proposed ceremony reverses
for the completion of his investiture.
the Gra nd Tile r and builds tow ard
the orde r of installation. It star ts with
Mas ter. Wh en he is reached, his
a climax, the installation of the Gra nd
the ceremony is thus completed.
investiture is with out interruption and
y.
The Committee pres ente d the ceremon
.
pted
The entire repo rt was ado

lications Law does not prohibit
such as a monthly magazine. Our Pub
ope rate s inst ead on Mas ons. A
or r~stl'i~t a~y publication as such. It
tion if it so desires. 1£ it obta ins
publica!ion is fr~e to app ly for a sanc
ding , Mas ons are free to solicit
a sanction and it remains in good stan
restriction is on soliciting, plac :
~lace or ~ri~t adverti~i~g therein. The on, Masonic in character, which
ing or prm ting adve rtisi ng in a publicati
a sanction.
has not elected to app ly for and obta in
berous publications app lied
Exercisi~g this freedom of choice, num
ons received the following wer e
for a sanction and of the applicati
app rove d:
427 N. Can yon Dr., Beverly
. 1. Th~ Sou ther n California Shriner,
ber of So. Calif., Lodge
~~~sifs~bhshed by Calvin J. ~rey, a mem
tern Star , 401-1 lth St., Bak ers2. Kem Cou nty Mas onry and Eas
a member of Bakersfield Lodge
field, published by Mik e S. Old ersh aw,
No. 224.
and Eas tern Star Box 128
3. San Luis Obi spo Cou nty Mas on
tz, a member of S~n Simeo~
Cambria, published by Mar cus L. Wal
Lodge No. 196.
tern Star , 1126 San ta Bar bara
4. Cha nne l Cou ntie s Mas on and Eas
Loomis, a member of Mag Lee
il
·
St., San ta Bar bara , published by Cec
nolia Lodge No. 242.
., Lon g
Ave
, 535 Locust
5. Sea boa rd Mas on and Eas tern Star, a member of Long Beach
dres
Beach, published by Cha rles F. De Cou
Lodge No. 327.
nal, 1335 N. Salt ana Avenue,
6•. Sou ther n Cali forn ia Mas onic Jour
a member of Ont ario Lodge
lar,
Eng
Ont ario , published by Hen ry C. ·
No. 301.
entine St., Anaheim, published
7. Mas~?ic Her ald, 600 No. ClemLod ge No. 207.
by Leo J. Fms , a member of Anaheim
st St., Lomita, published by
8. Squ are and Compass, 1862-261
332.
No.
ge
Lod
ro
Gor don Cha mbe rs of San Ped
ting ton Park , published
Hun
.,
Ave
e
9.. Masonic New s, 3041 Sag
by Miss Mar gare t Pray .
St., San ta Bar bara , published
10•. The Shrine~, 1126 San ta Bar bara No. 242.
ge
by Cecil Lee Loomis of Mag noli a Lod
a mass of correspondence wer e
Numerous conferences, hearings and
ses of our work. The members of
connected with this and the othe r pha
ly of their time and for this I am
you r committee have given generous
expe nses connected with the wor k
grateful to them. The re are nece ssar y with in our budget.
well
of the committee but we hav e kept
to permit the continued ope raOur aim thro ugh out the yea r has been
which han dle their advertising and
tio~ thos~ .Ma.sonic publicationsner
and so as to avoid scan dal or reeditorial policies m an ethical man
proach to the Cra ft.

168

RE PO RT OF SPECIAL CO MM ITT EE

ON PUB LIC AT ION S

of California:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Grand Lodge
been aske d to hand le a rath er
The Committee on Publications has
our path has been made easier
difficult and controversial subject but
rshi pful Arth ur M. Wa rren and
by the inspiring lead ersh ip of Mos t Wo
the Mas ons and Masonic Bodies
the hea rty cooperation of practically all
of this jurisdiction.
e in 1951. We hav e ther eThe Publications Law came into existenc
predecessors in this field. We feel
fore profited by the hard wor k of our
ch, as note d by the Gra nd Mas ter
that improvements hav e been made whi general appr obat ion and that
in his Ann ual Mes sage , have met with
is now read y to be put upo n a
administration of the Publication Law
definite and permane~t basis.
which I will now take up
Our repo rt is divided into four subjects
in orde r.
1-PBRIODICALS

By this term we refe r to a publication

put out at regu lar intervals

o!

169

170

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The regulations which we have tested and found satisfactory are
attached to this report as "Exhibit A"/ We think it will benefit the
entire Fraternity if they are enacted into law so that all may know what
Grand Lodge expects.
2--0CCASIONAL PUBLICATIONS

By this term we refer to publications put out for special occasions
only, such as the programs used at Shrine football games. We have
developed a different set of regulations adapted to the needs of occasional publications. A copy is attached hereto marked "Exhibit B"
and is likewise recommended for enactment into law at this Communication.
The general purpose of these regulations was to permit sponsors of
publications whose sole purposes are for charitable assistance to apply
for the aforementioned sanction. · In the words of the Grand Master
"this would allow certain publications who have always operated on an
ethical basis to continue their very 6.ne contribution to hiJmanity."
Applications from the following organizations were approved:
Islam Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., San Francisco.
Al Bahr Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., San Diego.
Al Malaikah Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., Los Angeles.
Aloha Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., Honolulu, T. H.
3---oPPICIAL BULLETINS

Before the enactment of the Publications Law it was the practice in
some of our Lodges to sell advertising space in their official monthly bulletins. We believe that without exception this was for the purpose of
defraying the cost of publication and circulation but such activities have
necessarily been suspended until ·there is a change in our law.
The practice was even more wide spread among the appendant
Masonic Bodies such as the Eastern Star. We have had a host of inquires from such Bodies as to why they cannot accept financial assistance
for a publication which is exclusively under their control and which is
necessary to their successful operation and while we have been unable
to give them any assistance or encouragement under the present law we
have reached the conclusion that a change in our law is desirable.
We are living in a day when there is sharp competition for the time
and attention of the members of any organization. A simple post card
announcement of a meeting is not sufficient to arouse the member's
interest and secure his attendance. The announcement of the meeting
has to he presented in an attractive manner and in some detail. A sales
talk is needed. If the member is advised of the advantages he will gain
from attendance he will make an appearance more often.
Another great advantage to be gained from an adequate "house

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

171

organ" which corresponds to our official bulletin is that space is available
for personal items concerning members. We are all human and the
mention of a person's name in print is a recognition to which he is entitled and which invariably stimulates his interest in the organization.
The publication of an attractive official bulletin involves expense
which some Bodies and perhaps some Lodges are not able to assume
unless they are allowed to sell advertising space. We think, however,
that any solicitation for the purchase of advertising space should be
limited to the cost of printing and circulating, provided that the nature
and contents of the advertising shall conform to Grand Lodge regulations and that with this safeguard such activities can be carried on without any harm to Masonry and with some probable benefit.
For these reasons we have become convinced that the publication of
such official bulletins should be made possible by an appropriate amendment to our laws. A suggested amendment is attached hereto marked
"Exhibit C" and will no doubt he referred to the proper committee for
consideration and report.
4-RESTRICTED INFORMATI<ON

We find it necessary to report to Grand Lodge on a matter which is
really collateral to our main concern hut which has caused your committee a great deal of trouble. We refer to the right of Lodges to release
for publication their news bulletins or trestleboards containing dates of
· meeting, other general information, lists of Lodge officers and places of
meeting.
The Publication Law as enacted in 1951 related only to the soliciting,
placing or printing of advertisements. It has not been repealed or
amended. It says nothing about the release of information which should
be, and in our opinion, is an entirely different subject.
Grand Master Drapeau was the 6.rst to administer the Publication
Law. He appointed a committee to assist him just like the present committee. Some of us are hold-overs from that committee. The committee
appointed by Grand Master Drapeau drew up regulations governing
publications and the then· Grand Master so approved them. Among
them were the bans on the release of information which I am discussing.
They may have been eminently proper and necessary at the time. I suppose I should take some responsibility for them as a member of the
Drapeau committee but I can say with equal positiveness that, as far as
I am concerned, they were never intended as permanent fixtures of
California Masonry or to work any change in our established practice
under which such items have been published. They were the means
employed by last year's committee and Grand Master Drapeau to enforce the law on advertising.
When our present Grand Master took office he had different ideas
on enforcement and on November 20, 1952 issued a circular letter an-

172

RNI
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO

PROCEEDINGS OP TH E

ct reg ula subject. Th ey rela xed the stri
mittee
com
nouncing his regulations on the
r
you
established rules which
con all
of
tions of the preceding yea r and
se
lau
app
eable and des erv e the
ed
nam
n
rre
feels are practical and enforc
Wa
M.
hur
st Wo rsh ipf ul Art
Mo
e
tim
e
sam
the
At
be
.
to
s
ned
cer
cedure
directed it to outline the pro
of
e
dat
er
you r pre sen t committee and
into effect. Th is we did und
followed in putting his policy sed a circular lett er to be sen t to all the
cau
nd Ma ste r
Feb rua ry 15, 1953, wh en we
atte ntio n to the action of Gra
led
cal
we
er
lett
our
In
.
s.
Lodges
new
l
era
gen
on
s
pea u restriction
Wa rre n in modifying the Dra
deal of
ers sen t out this yea r a gre at
In spi te of the two circular lett
s
tion or the
wh eth er the Dra pea u regula
ame gre ate r
confusion has existed as to
bec
followed. Th e confusion
we re found
Wa rre n reg ula tion s should be
est
Dig
ss
isions of 195 2 to Ro
wnen,. late r in the yea r, the rev
informative
of
ure
nat
ed 749 (a ) , in the
ber
num
now
tion
sec
a
tain
to con
n by Gra nd
n, claiming tha t the rejectio
material rat her tha n a decisio resolutions had the effect of app rov ing
ed
itively, tha t
Lodge las t yea r of two propos
inferring, if not sta ting pos
and
s
tion
tric
res
the Drapeau:
icy of Gr and Lodge.
the y had thu s become the pol
hin his
Dra pea u regulations we re wit
we do
No w, we do not den y tha t the
but
r,
ste
Ma
nd
Gra
his term as
ing
dur
e
ctiv
effe
and
tion
isdiccre
Jur
dis
this
e or are the per ma nen t Jaw of
ed
issu
he
dis put e tha t the y eve r becam
en
n did not so conceive them wh n had the
tion. Gra nd Ma ste r Wa rre
rre
Wa
r
ten d tha t Gr and Ma ste
are sur e
his circular letter. We con
nd Ma ste r Dra pea u. We
Gra
by
ed
rcis
exe
tive
oga
per
same
sincere and
uld wa nt to den y to our ver y
wo
o
wh
you
of
one
not
is
re
the
the previous
same liberty of action which
able pre sen t Gr and Ma ste r the
Gra nd Ma ste r enj oye d.
iness and
the new spa per publishing bus
I am not an atto rne y; I am in
en at the
tak
s
ion
act
Th e legal effect of the
struction
have been most of my life.
con
cal
hni
tec
of
get into a field
ion
cat
uni
mm
Co
l
nua
An
t
las
nce of thr ee
tan d, but I hav e had the assista
which I ma y not fully und ers
not agr ee wit h
tee and the y tell me the y do
able atto rne ys on my commit
ding Gra nd
cee
tion 749 (a) tha t all suc
the inference in the new sec
pea u restrictions.
Ma ste rs are bou nd by the Dra
erience
and I hav e had some slig ht exp how
I am a Pas t Ma ste r, however,
see
not
common sen se viewpoint I can
resolutions
in· Gr and Lodge, and from a
ed
pos
pro
two
pt
ado
to
las t yea r
the Jaw of
the refusal of Gr and Lodge
as
nt
something ent irel y differe
had the effect of approving
this f urisdiction.
reflect
new Section 749 (a) ·does not
nd
Gra
Ou r committee feels tha t the
ure
ge, tha t it und uly restricts fut
the rea l desires of Gr and Lod
be repealed.
Ma ste rs and tha t it should
d her eto
plish this pur pos e is atta che
Pro pos ed legislation to accom
marked "Ex hib it D" .

A

173

CO NC LU SIO N

Th e recommendation f th. ec;,mmittee are as follow:
1. Th at this rep ort be ~ppr~:
committee be dis cha r ged and a new committee be
2: Th at this
h
incoming G rand M ast er to co t'
the
by
app oin ted
n mue t is essentiall
h
h
.
I
u
e
ion
riat
k
rop
app
las t An nua
an
the
wo r wit
q a to t at gra nte d at
Communication.
.
s on periodical
nal publications
asio
3. Th at the reg ula tion
occ
an.d
s
h'b 't b
atta che d to this rep ort as Ex
.
:eJ~ tn~cted i~to Jaw
pte d
i. Th at legislation for ilie1
th~ o ofHc1a] bulletins be ado
'th
ted
mit
sub
form
as
the
m
in
for
either
is repodrt or in such oth er
the app rop riat e committee
R recDo~men .
5. Th at Section 749 ( a ) oss ige st be repealed.
RespectfuJJy submitted,

m::y

JAM ES F. DO UG AN
CRI TES
AR TH UR

c.

AR TH UR W. BRO UIL LET
J. EVE RET T HO USE R
YTO N
LAU REN CE EDW ARD DA

.
ittees on Fi
Referred to Comm
uns pru den ce and on Pol icy
J
ce,
nan
es.
pos
Pur
and Genera]

EX HI BI T A

.
published at. ·

' I
Certificate of Ow ner of Pe rr'odica
.. ..... ~• ··· --- --- -.. -......_..._ _ _..._

··-..····--- -

As ow ner o,f

...

.......i.:........................__:........______

.=

---.:.'
·-·····--·········::::::::=::::::···---~··---···
foUows:
··:·· ;·d f cer tify and agr ee as

1. No advertisement~·;jjj·~
erages, pat ent
er pn~ e or akohoJic bev
s.
medicines, horse rac ing or oth
or fdorLodpoJitical can did ate
be
not
J
wiJ
ters
2. Lodge mailing lists or
ros
ge
or ran
used.
d
3. No money wilJ be 1· ·
subscriP;~::~eiv_ed from LodtogesMafor
:nt
;~:
r:~
No
.
ise
erw
s tha t it
son
~ons ~r oth
de
ma
be
ad t'1se. wd]
or
ibe
scr
sub
to
y
dut
ir
the
1s
ver
1. N one .b ut a member in go0 d t d.ID~ ~f a California Lodge wiJJ
s an
solicit adv erti sin g and ne ver upon a comm1ss1on bas1·s or b y telephone.
D
5 onations for charitable or th
.
ted wit h Marly ident~fie~r ~rposes connec
] not be so..
wi]
~~ry or any bod y pop ulapub
ry
son
Ma
~2th
Jicati
the
by
ed
ept
acc
or
ted
l1c1
ertisements
g nat~: or.J;tb agent. No adv
etin
gre
or
y
tor
tula
gra
con
a
of
pri nte d.
res ent ati: n':· , e accepted orthe publication
. 6. No pri nte d or ora] rep
t
tha
?e
ma
be
is spo n
is an ofHda] publication or
contro11ed by
t Lodg~re , Mthor1ze~ orgen
uen
stit
con
any
ge,
eral or tha t
ID
Gr~d Lod
nry
aso
, or

rosl:::mgG

l]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

any such Masonic body will receive any benefit or advantage, financial
or otherwise, from subscriptions or advertising.
7. No business of this publication will be conducted in a Masonic
Temple or Lodge Hall.
.
.
8. Each issue will be dated and issued at the intervals specified in the
application.
.
· .
9. Circulation figures showing the number of paid and non-paym~
subscribers, the names and addresses of the owners, publishers and ed~­
tors, subscription and advertising rates, will be published at least semiannually.
· l O. Each issue will carry a statement over the name of the owner or
publisher as follows :
.
"This is not an official publication of the Grand Lodge of California or any constituent Lodge. It is conducted as a privte business
enterprise. Editorial comment or articles .appearing here~n ?o not
necessarily reflect the views of any Masonic body. Application for
sanction to solicit and print advertising has been approved by the Grand
Lodge of California subject to withdrawal. Subscriptiotls and advertising are purely voluntary."
11. No printed statement, elaboration or explanation referring to the
approval of Grand Lodge is to be printed in the publication except as
last set forth.
12. Two copies of each issue will be forwarded to the office of the
Grand Secretary, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco 2, California,
within 10 days after printing.
13. I undertake and agree to publish a periodical which will reflect
honor on Masonry and to cooperate fully with the <?ra~d Lodge tow~rd
the accomplishment of its purpose to suppress chiseling, racketeenng
and unethical practices in the publishing field:
.
. .
.
14 I agree to furnish information concernmg said periodical if and
when ~equested. I understand that any approval granted may be withdrawn. at any time at the pleasure of the Grand ~as~er, an.d i~ wi~h­
drawn. I will not allow any statement to ~ppear m said. pei:io~ical indicating, directly or indirectly, that the previous approval is still m force . .
•

1

•

· Dated: ..•...--:......... _.....•............ - ......- ...1 9........•

..................................................... ...................
Owner

············••09;••···········-···-··································

Witness
(If signed by other than owner explain reason)
Mail to:
Grand Secretary
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
25 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco2, California

175

EXHIBIT B
Certificate of Sponsor of Occasional Publication .
The undersigned has bee.n authorized by................................................
.•.............................................. to be in charge of the publication described
in the attached letter and the solicitation of advertising to appear
therein. With the knowledge and permission of said sponsor and in
its behalf as well as my own, 1 certify and agree as follows:
1. The net proceeds derived from the project will be devoted to the
charitable purpose described in the accompanying letter of application.
2. No advertising will be printed for alcoholic beverages, patent
medicines, horse racing or other gaming, or for political candidates.
3. Lodge mailing lists or rosters or Grand Lodge rosters will not be
used.
4. No money will be solicited or received from Lodges for subscriptions or otherwise. No representations will be made to Masons that it
is their duty to subscribe or advertise.
5. Donations for charity or otherwise will not be solicited or accepted
by advertising solicitors. No advertisements will be accepted of a
congratulatory or greeting nature.
6. No printed or oral representation will be made that the publication is an official publication or is sponsored, authorized or controlled
by Grand Lodge, any constituent Lodge or Masonry in general or that
any such Masonic body will receive any benefit or advantage, financial
or otherwise, from subscriptions or advertising.
·
7. No business of this publication will be conducted in a Masonic
Temple or Lodge Hall.
8. If approval is granted hereunder, the same shall not printed in
the publication but prospective advertisers may be informed that application for sanction to solicit and publish advertising has been approved by Grand Lodge and such approval may, but need not be displayed to the prospective advertiser.
9. Two copies of the publication will be forwarded to the office of
the Grand Secretary, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco 2, within
10 days after printing.
10. I agree to furnish such additional information concerning the
publication as may be requested and I understand that any approval
granted may be withdrawn .at the pleasure of the Grand Master.
11. Within 30 days after the event for which the publication is
designed a financial statement in duplicate will be filed with said Grand
Secretary itemizing the expenses, gross and net proceeds of the pub-

177

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GR:\'ND LODG.E OP CALIFORNIA

lication and where, to whom and the amount of the disbursements of
the net proceeds.
12. I undertake and agree to put out a publication which will reflect
honor on Masonry and to cooperate fully with the Grand Lodge toward
the accomplishment of its purpose to suppress chiseling, racketeeri ng
and unethical practices in the publishing field.

to be passed around among those members interested , the additional
cost would not be excessive.
We request that an appropria tion sufficient to carry out this plan be
made for the ensuing fiscal year.

176

Dated: . . . ,.,._.. ................- .......

1'9••• ,,. . . . .

NEWCOMB CoNDEE
OSCAR

_.l 9..........

................ .............................................................

HERBERT G. POLHILL

Sponsor

GEORGE

EXHIBIT C
Proposed Amendme nt to Section 127
This Section does not apply to the official bulletin or trestleboa rd
of a Lodge or any appendan t body in which advertisin g space is sold
to cover cost of printing and circulating provided that the nature and
contents of advertisin g · be not offensive to Grand Lodge regulations.

EXHIBIT D
RESOLV ED:
That Section 749 (a) Ross Digest, Seventh Edition, be and the
same is hereby repealed.

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON CORRES PONDEN CE
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee completed its review of the 1952 proceedings of
our sister jurisdictions on Septembe r 1st so that the printer might have
copies ready for those attending our 1953 Communication. Much valuable information is collected in this Review and it is hoped that it will
be widely read by members of our Grand Lodge.
Considera tion has been given to issuing the Review quarterly instead of once a year. The usefulness of the Correspon dence Committee Report is lessened because it comes out during Grand Lodge week
when the attention of the brethren is centered on immediate problems.
If the material was divided into separate parts and distributed during
the year, its value would be enhanced. ·If a copy is mailed to each
officer and Committeeman of Grand Lodge, to the Masters and Wardens
of the Lodges and several copies sent in bulk to each Lodge Secretary

w. BURCH

RALPH C. McGEE

Witness
Mail to:
Grand Secretary
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
25 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco 2, California

c. OLSEN

ERRET

Referred to Committee on Finance.

J. SMITH

OoEN W. HANSEN

REPORT OF COMMI SSION ON REVISIO N OF
ROSS DIGEST
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of California:
Your _Commissi~~· recently appointed by the Grand Master, to study
the question of rev1smg the Ross Digest, reports as follows:
More than twenty-tw o years have elapsed since Most Worshipf ul
John Stewart Ross presented the Ross Digest to Grand Lodge for approval. It is unnecessa ry for us to dwell at length on the great service
he performed . This wo_rk has been our constant companion for many
Y~ars. On many occasions the Craft has recognize d its value and it
wdl always stand as a monument to this great and loyal Mason.
However, all law is in a constant state of change and the books that
record it must keep pace with these changes so that they may be found
and understoo d by those who need them. New questions arise that bring
forth amendmen ts and new problems result in far-reachi ng decisions and
interpretat ions. And this is as true of Masonic Law and Masonic Law
Books as of all others. No law book is of enduring value unless it is
r~ised from time to time and adapted to existing needs. The present
Digest has served its purposes during a period when the State has
·doubled in population and when Masonry has developed at a corresponding pace. If the author of the Digest were here today, he would
be among the first to recognize the need for revision at the present time.
. Since Brother Ross became ill several years ago, no one has been
directly charged with the duty to see that the book was kept up to date,
SO that new material could be readily found and understoo d, and
it has now reached the state where nothing short of a complete revision
\Vould be adequate.

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

During the past twenty years: the publishers of law books generally,
have greatly improved them both as to form and as to the methods of
keeping them up to date. Better indexing techniques have been developed, and in our opinion, these should all be used in our own statement of Masonic Law to the end that the Craft may find the law more
easily and be able to understand it when it is found. We should, to
the extent possible, have a law book written for laymen rather than for
lawyers. By re-writing many provisions, incorporating the gist of decisions in the text, and by the aid of comments and illustrations, we
believe that this can be accomplished.
The suggestion has been made from time to time that a partial revision would be sufficient if a more adequate index were supplied. We
do not share that view. If the work is to be done at all, it should be
done well, and a complete and thorough revision should be undertaken.
It will require time and some expense. but in the end it should lead to
clarifications that will prevent costly mistakes and the excessive expense
of re-printing should be reduced. Men are available within the Craft
to get this work done. and to keep the resulting product up-to-date in
the years that follow.
We therefore recommend:
( 1 ) That a permanent comm1ss1on on Masonic Law be
created, the members to be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Grand Master;
( 2 ) That the commission, with such assistance as it may
secure from the brethren, undertake a thorough revision
of our law as herein suggested; and
( 3) That the sum of $1,200.00 be appropriated for the use
of the commission to cover material and stenographic
expenses.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS

Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR PAULSEN
WILLIAM NANKERVIS, JR.
LLOYD E. WILSON

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.
The Most Worshipful Orvin M. Miles, Grand Master of Masons in
Virginia, at the invitation of the Grand Master, favored Grand Lodge
with an address.

179

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has carefully examined and considered
the one hundred sixteen Amendments to By-Laws submitted by constituent Lodges for approval during the past year.
Forty-three of these Amendments increase the initiation fee and
twenty-nine of the Amendments increase the annual dues. This procedure is all in keeping with the increasing costs of today. Likewise nine
Lodges increased and adopted a reasonable initiation fee.
To the brother who values his Masonic membership and the worthwhile interested applicant, there can be no serious objection to these
changes. An unreasonable increase of dues will result in a loss of
membership.
For various reasons, certain Lodges decided it was rtecessary to
amend their By-Laws to provide for changing date of Stated Meeting
and also providing for the postponement allowed because of certain
holidays.
The Amendments considered are as follows:
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: San Joaquin No. 19, to $125.00: LaFayette No. 126,
to $75.00: Lassen No. M9, to $100.00; Excelsior No. 166, to $100.00;
Oak Grove No. 215, to $100.00: Downey No. 220, to $125.00: Winnedumah No. 287, to $100.00: Silver Gate No. 296, to $150.00; Santa
Monica No. 307, to $110.00; Temescal No. 314, to $75.00; Fallbrook
No. 317, to $75.00; Alisa} No. 321, to $75.00: Redondo No. 328, to
$125.00: San Pedro No. 332, to $125.00: Buena Park No. 357, to $75.00:
Golden State No. 358, to $100.00: . Charity No. 362, to $75.00: South
Pasadena No. 367, to $100.00; Artesia No. 377, to $75.00: Burbank
No. 406, to $125.00; Blackmer No. 442, to $150.00: La Puente No. 446,
to $75.00: Park No. 449, to $100.00; Ramona No. 457, to $100.00:
Westwood No. 501, to $85.00: Pyramid No. 562, to $100.00: James A.
Garfield No. 566, to $125.00: El Cajon No. 576, to $100.00: Progressive
No. 578, to $100.00: El Sereno No. 588, to $125.00; Tujunga No. 592,
to $100.00: Granada No. 608, to $100.00: Menorah No. 623, to $175.00:
Chula Vista No. 626, to $125.00; Victorville No. 634 to $74.00; A.F.E.
Irwin No. 645, to $125.00: Monte Vista No. 655, to $125.00; Citro] No.
656, to $75.00: La Habra No. 659, to $75.00; Ojai No. 663, to $75.00:
Dos Palos No. 681, to $100.00; Westchester No. 703, to $105.00:
Magnolia Park No. 715, to $125.00.
Increasing afflliation fee: Excelsior No. 166, to $25.00; Pyramid No.
562, to $12.00; James A. Garfield No. 566, to $75.00; Progressive No.
578, to $10.00; Menorah No. 623, to $25.00; Westchester No. 703, to
$5.00.

180

GRAN~

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

. N 307 t $15 OO· Ramona No.
Fixing affiliation fee: Santa Monica o.
•a
. •
457, at $12.00: Victorville Nop. 634, at ~5.0~46· Oceanside No. 381: ImRescinding affiliation fee: omona 0 ·
•
perial No. 390: Anacapa N~. 71NO. 35 t $15 00· Martinez No. 41. to
Increasing dues: San Diego 0 • s' Ho l . N• 93 to $16 00· Ex79
$24 OO· t
e ena o. •
· •
$15.00: Humboldt N o. ·vto
: 'N 0 · 13 A to $15.00: Oak Grove No.
11
·
N
166
t
$15
00·• acavi e$l S OO·
•
'·
ce1sior o.
• 0
•
Temescal
No. 314, to $15 ·00 :
215, to $18.00: Durant No. 2.68 •!fden St~te No. 358, to $15.00: South
Kilauea No. 330, to $15.00.
b k N 406 to $15 OO· Charter Rock
Pasadena No. 367, to ~lt~O:N ur :~ t
OO: Mou~t Oiablo No. 448,
No. 410, to $15.00: Wils ire o. 00· ·G~lde~ West No. 455, to $15.00;
to $16.00: Park No. 449. to5$0105.A . . No 475 to $1500: Argonne
; merica
·
'
·
N 552
C u1ver Ct
i Y N o. 467 • to $1
•
529 t $l 5 00· Semper Vireos o.
1
No. 514. to $15.00: Loya ty o. 1 OO·oWa~co,No. 583, to $15.00: Haw. to $15.00: Hillcrest No. 573,Ftol $ 5.
649 to $15.00· Meridian No.
thorne No. 647, to $15.00; orence o.
•
•
667 to $15.00: Liberal Arts No. 677, to N$15.0201'-4_ t $12 00
'D
· d
. San Buenaventura o. ., o
· ·
ecreasing ues.
d M
'n . St Helena No. 93, Sierra Val1ey
Changing date of Sta~
ee~i ~ ·ce No 329· Seaside No. 504:
11 5;3.
No. 184: Lodi No. ~56; aNee
~FE I~n No. 645: Wayfarer
Arcadia No. 547: Hillcrest o.
• · · ·
No. 717: Northern California Rese~rch Lo~ge.
136
Changing time of Statl~dd Mee~ng: P:~~ ~~6· Gl~ndora No. 404;
Provision for legal ho ' ays: omon
.
•
Golden West No: 455:CHodillcresftBNoLa.57w3s.· Herman No. 127: Janesville
0
Adopt"ing Uniform
We d ty- k No· 491 · George E. Tutt U .D .;
No. 232: Adin No. 250:
~ ~l oc U D ·. Sai~t John's U.D.: Yucaipa
Acalanes U.D.: S~n RUamDon L ~ ey d' t.i'D . Centennial U.D.: Polaris
U.D.: Verdugo Hills · .; a ewoo
· "
U.D.: Two Rivers U.J?.
.H
borne No. 647.
Re Charity Committee: Crocker No. 4 54 • awt

¥

4

$is

N

N

RESOLUTIONS

.
lace· North Butte No. 230: Traver
Providing for ch;nge of;e~~~~ es; Los Angeles No. 373: Smyrna
No. 29i: Va~lee de ~anc;73·oV ll. Forge No. 587: Lomita No. ·644:
No. 532: Hillcrest o.
• a .ey N 693
San Clemente No. 671: Palm Springs
r)
· No 297· Sisson
Changing Annual Meeting to .Nov~m Ner: ~~smmr
·
•
M Cl d No 430· White Pme o.
·
10
No. 3 : c o~
t. 11 'show thought and consideration, and came
These Amen .men ~ a
iorm S lendid help has been given Secbefore our Committee m ~od d Se~et~ry' s office in furnishing prepared
retaries of Lodges by our . i:n La s Certificates for Secretaries to cerforms for Amendments t~ "t w seal and also calling attention to
tify the Amendments an sdign an
perly We urge the use of these
certain points to be sure an cover pro
.
prepared forms and certificates.

{N

ob

5

LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

181

We further urge Secretaries to sign and place the Lodge seal on the
official communication of the atcion to Grand Lodge. Only a few of
these omissions appeared, but they raise technical questions. We urge
th'e Secretary to see that all blanks in the Uniform Code of By-Laws
express a meaninq. True a blank does not mean anything, but it is Just
as easy to insert "no," or "nil." When a provision is not used it should
be stricken out. then surplusage cannot cause any confusion of interpJ"etation.
One Amendment increasing dues was rejected by the Grand Master
and Grand Secretary because it attempted to be retroactive. Their action
was completely sound. This Amendment was reconsidered by the Lodge,
and provided that the increase take effect at the beginning of the next
quarter, following the action of the Lodqe. It was approved by the
Grand Secretary as to form, and by the Grand Master as to Masonic
law. We call attention to it here for information only.
We ask the Grand Secretary to insert into his prepared form for
Amendment of By-Laws, a blank for the address and location of the
Lodge. Also a blank for when the proposed Amendment of By-Laws is
to become effective.
.One unusual Amendment provided for a reduction of the annual
Lodge dues, but the Amendment was noticed, voted on and adopted by
the Lodge in 1936. Amendments to By-Laws do not become effective
until approved by the Grand Master and Grand Secretary; their action
is then considered and confirmed by Grand Lodge upon the report and
recommendation of the By-Laws CommiUee, at the next Annual Communication. There is an interesting question here as to the amount of
the annual diRs for the last sixteen or seventeen years. However, the
Amendment as to the action of our Committee is in proper form and we
approved it. We have allowed the Secretaries where necessary to correct
errors or omissions, for the chief objective is to avoid duplications and
yet keep the Lodge record legally sound and complete.
We recommend that incoming Masters look over the By-Laws with
the Secretary at the beginning of the term, and that Amendments be
checked by them together as to notice thereof, adoption and date to
take effect.
All the Amend.ments as finally submitted have received the approval
of the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary. We approve them and
recommend the adoption of this report approving the Amendments set
forth therein by Grand Lodge.
OAKLEY K. MORTON
ANDREW R. ScHoTIKY

WM. W. McKEE
ROBERT C. PEYTON
LEE T. MULLEN

d

Adopted.

JosEPH A. PINKSTON

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REP OR T OF LIBRARY CO MM ITT EE
of California:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lodge
d by the Gra nd Mas ter to
You r Committee on Libr ary was aske
repo rt on our Gra nd Lod ge
make a thor ough investigation and complete
Library. We have don e so.
l part of the Gra nd SecrePrio r to 1912 the Libr ary was an incidenta
lation covering. The old pr~
tary 's Office, ther e being no specific legis
appr opri ation of $150 and in
ceedings show that in 1853 ther e was an
, 1856 and 1865 proceedings
1856 $200 for libra ry purposes. The 1854
1900 proceedings lists 240 vollist the books then in the library. The
being proceedings of othe r
them
of
umes received duri ng the year , 223
volumes of Mas onic magazines.
gran d bodies and 7 of them were bound
d in the 1906 fire.
The entire libra ry was appa rent ly dest roye
ary Committee was
In 1912 the legislation establishing a Libr
adop ted.
much enthusiasm, grad uall y
The Committee appa rent ly worked with
in 1918 they repo rted abou t
gath erin g dona ted books and pape rs until
most of these were boun d
tly
6,000 volumes in the library. App aren
ing this year with the dona tion
proceedings of various gran d lodges. Dur
take care of this accumulation.
of lumber and labor, shelves were built to
installed.
The y repo rt 95 sections of shelving was
e were 600 volumes on the
The 1924 Committee repo rt state s ther
essa ys to encyclopedia.
shelves rang ing from history, travels and
Committee aske d for $500
At the 1924 session of Gra nd Lodge the
g in detail how they prop osed
to establish a traveling library, explainin
ed them.
to oper ate it. The money was not allow
n explained its plan s and
At the 1925 session, the Committee agai
aske d for $500. Aga in denied.
for $1500 for the same purAt the 1927 session the Committee aske d
pose and was agai n refu sed the money.
$1500. No luck.
At the 1928 session, they agai n aske d for
n made an eloquent appe al
At the 1929 session the Committee agai
Committee repo rted adversely,
for the same purpose. The Fina nce
of the opinion that this 6.~ld i~
stati ng as follows: "Yo ur Committee is
mmends the requ est be denied.
being covered by othe r agencies and reco
The Committee repo rt was sustained.
n aske d for $1,000. The
At the 1931 session, the Committee agai
of the opinion that the esta bFina nce Committee repo rted that it was
unnecessary.
lishment of such fund s at that time was
ee r~ads as follows:
The 1931 repo rt of the Library Committ
at this time to apol..
"It would seem quite unne cess ary for me
you r committe~ be..
of
part
ogize for a seas on of inactivity on the
such committee.
of
uct
cond
the
cause of conditions governing

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

183

a like disposition on
Mon ey has been 'tigh t' in consonance with
, it is quite likely
ever
How
..
ce
the part of your committee on finan
been made use
have
ee
mitt
com
ry
libra
that such funds, failing the
ose of relie ving -as far
of for the more noble and glorious purp
ng the past year of unas poss ible -the distr ess far and wide duri
Committee Chairman.
the
usual financial depression". Signed by
ary Committee as ther e
Libr
the
This was appa rent ly the last effort of
hing has been done to build up
is no indication since that time that anyt
ging times, the establishment
the libra ry or furth er equi p it. Due to chan to the grea t university liss
of public libraries in ever y community, acce
over the Stat e, our Gra nd
all
ries
libra
onic
Mas
ent
pend
braries, the inde
and hard wor k by diliing
begin
Lodge Libr.ary, afte~ a very auspicious ·
as above repo rted .
vine
the
on
er
gent committees, was allow ed to with
books on its shelves that wou ld
At the pres ent time, ther e are not over 50
lodges and for the most part ,
be of inter est to the aver age member in our own community.
his
the same books would be easily found in
Gra nd Lodge Libr ary wou ld
our
of
on
pleti
com
The rehabilitation and
ld require a large room whic h
cost several thou sand s of dollars, wou
futu re and would requ ire clerical
would not be available in the forseeable
help to oper ate.
of such books, pape rs and
It is believed ·that good and prop er use
nd Lodge offices can be mad e
historical material now stor ed in our Gra
Committe and the Gra nd
ory
by the Research Lod ges and our Hist
rtain ing to the duties of
appe
st
Dige
Secretary. Item 14 of Sec. H Ross
"To act as Gra nd Librarian and
the Gra nd Secr etar y read s as follows:
ge und er such regulations as it
take char ge of .the libra ry of Gra nd Lod be retai ned.
may prescribe". This regu latio n shou ld
and 74 of Ross Dige st
It is however recommended that Sections 70mittee should be revised
Com
which provide for a Gra nd Lodge Libr ary of a Committee which has
ge
Lod
nd
Gra
ving
relie
eby
ther
d
or abolishe
duti es which can be perf orm ed
no libra ry to wor k with and therefore noGra nd Body.
without large appr opri ation s from this
Respectfully submitted,
A.C .CU RRI E
JOSE PH A. BEN NET T
WAR D M. BOR ING
HAR RY M. BRADFORD
MAR VIN D. MAR TIN
PHIL IP R. CHA PIN

Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence

.

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR

184

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

RE PO RT OF CO MM ITT EE ON

LODGE. FIN AN CIN G

ge of California:
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Grand Lod
ing beg s leave to submit here with
You r Committee on Lod ge Fin anc
ing.
dur ing the Ma son ic yea r just end
a rep ort of its accomplishments
w
gro
to
e
tinu
con
on Lodge Fin anc ing
The activities of the Committee
s
litie
sibi
pon
Res
r.
yea
h succeeding
in scope and imp orta nce with eac
Com
the
of
ber
mem
ry
eve
and upo n
hea r heavily upon the Cha irm an
mittee.
eve ry yea r since the close of Wo rld
The reco rd of the pas t yea r, as in
tinu e
. Bre thre n· of man y Lodges con
Wa r II, has been one of building
or to
eav
ing eve ry obstacle, in an end
to labo r on the temples, overcom
son s
Ma
for
es
for more and more plac
keep pac e wit h the critical nee d
to meet.
Cal ifor nia, wit h tens of tho usa nds
Wi th the trem end ous gro wth of
conder ful stat e eve ry yea r, with the
ente ring the por tals of this won
d
goo
men
of
nds
Ma son ry by tho usa
seq uen t knocking on the doo rs of
s
son
Ma
ch
whi
ding
buil
continue the
and true, ther e is a cha llen ge to
can not igno re or den y.
much for this ideal which we call
It has been said tha t men sacrifice
now her e is this bett er exemplified
Ma son ry. Thi s is sure ly true! And
ples
the building of new Ma son ic tem
tha n in the sacrifices the y make in
the
to
n
gnition has nev er bee n give
wit h thei r own han ds. Pro per reco
the
and
t,
men
comes wit h accomplish
builders. The y see k none. Rew ard
my
h,
fait
t
tha
in
r wit h them. And
kno wle dge that God is a par tne
bret hren , no task can eve r fail.
ncing new Ma son ic temples are
Because plan s and methods of fin~
the
enc our age d and insp ired to begin
ver y limited, Lodges hav e to be
onresp
a
has
it
s
eve
beli
ge Fin anc ing
building. You r Committee on Lod
the
in ord er to mak e it possible for
way
ry
eve
in
te
sibility to coo pera
gpro
, to enc our age them dur ing the
bre thre n to pro cee d to the building
of
ion
plet
nsel and to aid in the com
ress of the work, to advise, to cou
the task .
Lod ge Fin anc ing recommends to
To this end , you r Committee on
the
n of temple associations und er
the Lodges con cern ed the formatio
nt
pete
com
t
tha
ts
ifor nia, and sug ges
non-profit law s of the Sta te of Cal
se
The
ers.
pap
per
pro
e and file the
lega l counsel he reta ined to pre par
uiring and ope rati ng Lod ge pro pacq
for
ide
veh
a
corp orat ions pro vide
for rais ing fun ds thro ugh the sale
erty , and provide a plan or method
non which are non -int eres t hearing,
of memberships or certificates,
ile
Wh
ty.
per
tary inte rest in the pro
tran sfer able , and hav e no pro prie
utrib
con
a
lly
ntia
certificates is esse
pur cha se of thes e memberships or
ch
whi
ions
orat
corp
e
thes
the by- law s of
tion, ther e is a provision set up in
n
berships or certificates if and whe
mem
e
thes
of
ion
require the rede mpt
funds are available.

NIA

185

a
ado pted a policy which allows
In add itio n you r Committee has
nt
icie
suff
of a new Ma son ic temple if
Lod ge to commence construction
tha t
lose the building, on the theo ry
fun ds are a! .hand to enti rely enc
of
ss
gre
pro
ava ilab le dur ing the
enoug~ ~dd1tronal funds will becomee free and clear of any debt. Tha t
th~ bud.dm~ to complete the stru ctur
new
out by the fact tha t nea rly fort y
this po~1cy is a sou nd one is borne
or
six
t
pas
the
ing
dur
nia
t in Cal ifor
Ma son ic temples hav e been buil
ss
dne
have any out stan din g ind ebte
sev~n yea rs. Less tha n a dozen doubtful if a single Ma son ic temple
it is
aga mst them. In this connection
plete
period if sufficient fun ds to com
this
r
could ~a~e been built dur ing
you
ted.
star
n
ctio
le before con stru
the hu.ddmg had to he availab
ding
buil
on
ort
rep
this
eves tha t
Co?1~.1ttee on Lodge Fin anc ing beli
he complete if a reca pitu lati on
not
ld
wou
r
!ea
t
ren
cur
r II
activities for ~he
gra m since the end of Wo rld Wa
of the M~somc temple building pro
e
Lod
nd
Gra
sure to pre sen t to this
g
was not i~cluded. Thu s it is a plea
the followmg:
completed
1. Thi rty- five new Ma son ic Tem ples
in vari ous stag es of completion
2. F~u~teen new Ma son ic temples
d
uding thre e church buildings acq uire
3. Six 1mpro:~d properties, inclMa
ples
tem
ic
son
and rehah1htated for use as
temple buildings, $5,000,000.00
'of
t
cos
4. Est ima ted rep rod ucti on
00.00
5. Est ima ted valu e of land, $1,000,0
sted in temple buildings •
6. Esti mat ed amo unt of money inve
$2,500,000.00
trib uted labo r on temple
7. Est ima ted value of volunteer, con
buildings, $2,500,000.00
nes s aga inst temple pro pert ies '
8. Est ima ted out stan din g inde bted
$150,000.00
n accomplished by Lod ges hav ing
Thi s tremendous pro gra m has bee
n in
17,000, or an ave rag e con trib utio
a total membership of less than
cent
nifi
mag
a
is
s
Thi
0.00 per member.
money and labo~ of m?r e tha n $30
e.
prid
real
take
can
nia
son in Cal ifor
record and one ~n which eve ry Ma
t
sen
con
t
tha
ort
ing is hap py to rep
You r C~mm1ttee on Lod ge Fin anc n on eleven new Ma son ic tem structio
has been. given to commence con
of
r. Thi s is the gre ates t num ber
yea
ic
son
Ma
t
pas
ples during the
d
rde
ction on Ma son ic temples reco
~quests for cons~nt to begin constru anc ing was established. Lod ges
sm~e the Committee on Lodge Fin the Committee to proceed wit h
from
whi ch. h~ve received permission
;
sce nt Lod ge No. 45, Cre sce nt City
Cre
are:
the bud ding of new temples
,
313
No.
ge
Lod
api
ach
Sto nyf ord : Teh
¥o w Mo~ntain Lodge No. 271,
ge
Lod
ke
Dra
ncis
Fra
ido:
ond
325, Esc
Nehachap1; Con sue lo Lodge No.
380,
Hun ting ton Beach Lodga No.
co;
ncis
Fra
San
th
Sou
o. ~67,
rfax
Fai
illa;
Lodge No. 485, Chowch
.:!: ftm gto n Beach; Chowchilla
on:
Caj
El
,
576
No.
Val ley Lodge
ge No. 556, Lar ksp ur: El Caj on

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Canby Cross Lodge No. 679, Tulelake; San Marino Lodge No. 685,
San Marino. Financing of these buildings, with one exception, will
require no fixed debt, aside from the non-interest bearing loans made
by the lodges to their own temple associations. Consent has been granted
to commence construction of these new Masonic temples with the
stipulation that no liabilities, either for labor or materials, be incurred
beyond those currently approved by your. Committee. As in previous
years, cooperation of the respective Masonic inspectors has been sought
and letters from them certifying the proposed Lodge rooms are suitable
for proper tiling, have been requested.
Your Committee has approved the purchase of eleven Masonic
temple building sites this year which sets another record. In addition
twenty-four Lodges have received permission to incorporate Masonic
temple associations under the non-profit laws of the State of California.
These associations have for their purpose the acquisition and operation
of Lodge prope~y.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing held its regular semi-annual
meeting at the Marines Memorial Club, in San Francisco, Sunday,
February 22, 1953. The following members were present: Chairman,
E. J. Blickfeldt; E. Herbert Phillips; Walter Pybon; Darrell R. Purcell;
Harold R. Richards; Glen C. Holbert; William D. Verbarg; Mark A.
Green. The meeting lasted from 10:00 A. M. until 4:10 P. M. and
much good work was accomplished. Representatives from Sotoyome
Lodge No. 123 and Salinas Lodge No. 204 presented themselves for
Committee advice and cooperation on their Lodge Financing problems.
Six other applications were acted upon.
Pursuant to policy adopted by Grand Lodge last' October, viz:
"That the incoming Grand Master, the chairman of the Committee on
Finance, together with the Chairman of the Committee on Lodge
Financing be hereby authorized to expend such monies of Grand Lodge
to relieve the unfortunate condition of the Tehachapi and Maricopa
Lodges in their rebuilding projects as may he collectively decided upon,"
the Committee on Lodge Financing at its February meeting voted unanimously to recommend a grant from Grand Lodge funds of $10,000.00
to Tehachapi Lodge and $10,000.00 to Mariposa Lodge to assist in
the rebuilding of their earthquake destroyed temples. This recommendation was made after several meetings had been held with representatives of the respective Lodges, after much discussion between members
of the Committee on Lodge Financing and the Committee on Finance,
and much prayerful consideration and study by all concerned.
A complete file on every case which has been presented to your
Committee on Lodge Financing, during the past year, including all the
details of the request, exhibits and pertinent rate required for guidance
in arriving at a decision, comments by Committee members, together

with a copy of written consent, has been mailed to the Grand Secretary's
.
.
office as a part of the official records of this Grand Lodge.
A resume of the activities of your Committee on Lodge Fmancmg
·
during the past year follows:
to invest $13,000.00 from
consent
granted
648
No.
Damascus Lodge
Lodge general funds in voting memberships of the Damascus Mason~c
Building Association. Consent granted to the Damascus Masonic
Building Association to purchase a temple building site for the sum of
$12,500.00.
Foothill Lodge No. 564 granted consent to invest $8,500.00 in Foothill Masonic Temple Association to be secured by an addition to the first
deed of trust executed by Foothill Masonic Temple Association in favor
of Foothill Lodge. Funds to be used to repay advances· made by members of the Lodge in 1951.
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366 granted consent to invest $2,500.00 from
Lodge general funds in a voting membership of the Masonic Building
Association of Fresno.
Center Lodge No. 465 granted consent to invest $2,500.00 from
Lodge general funds in a voting membership of the Masonic Building
Association of Fresno.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530 granted consent to invest $2,500.00 from
Lodge general funds in a voting membership of the Masonic Building
Association of Fresno.
Fresno Lodge No. 247 granted consent to invest $2,500.00 from
Lodge general funds in a voting membership of the Masonic Building
Association of Fresno.
Masonic Building Association of Fresno granted consent to purchase a five-acre temple building site in Fresno for the sum of $10,000.00.
Maricopa Lodge No. 434 granted consent to incorp~ra~e the ~ari­
copa Masonic Temple Association and request for peri:xi1ss1on to mv~t
$100.00 from Lodge general funds in a voting membership of the association was approved.
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243 granted permission to reincorporate the
Bucalyptus Masonic Building Association under the non-profit la~s of
the State of California, and the transfer of 2,485 shares of stock m the
old corporation for the voting membership in the new corporation was
approved.
La Jolla Lodge No. 518 granted consent to incorporate the La Jolla
Masonic Temple Association and the request to invest $100.00 from
lodge general funds in a voting membership of the Association was
approved.
Malta Lodge No. 661 granted consent to lease the second floor of
the Towner Building in Los Angeles for a period of five years at a total
rent of $7,500.00

188

189

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Piedmont Lodge No. 521 granted consent to incorporate the Piedmont Masonic Temple Association, Inc., and request to purchase a voting membership from Lodge general funds in the Association approved.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 granted consent to purchase from Lodge
general funds $7.500.00 worth of voting memberships in the Monte Vista
Masonic Temple Association.
Craftsman Lodge No. 559 granted consent to incorporate the Craftsman Masonic Temple Association and request to invest $100.00 from
Lodge funds in the said association approved.
East San Diego Lodge No. 561 granted consent to incorporate the
East San Diego Temple Corporation and the request for permission to
dissolve the East San Diego Building Association, a stock company, was
approved. Request for permission to transfer all assets of the old corporation to the new corporation was also approved.
Crescent City Lodge No. 45 granted consent to incorporate the Crescent Temple Association, and request for permission to transfer property
from the Lodge to the Association in exchange for voting memberships
was approved.
•
South Gate Masonic Hall Association granted consent to expend not
to exceed $4.000.00 to repair and renovate the South Gate Masonic
Temple in Los Angeles.
Hawthorne Masonic Temple Association granted consent to refinance the outstanding indebtedness on the temple building. The plan
will .enable the temple association, which is a stock corporation, to redeem all outstanding stock, and permit the formation of a non-profit
corporation and dissolution of the stock company.
Saint Helena Masonic Temple Association granted consent to purchase a Masonic Temple building site in Helena for a sum not to exceed
$6,500.00
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579 granted permission to transfer
$2,500.00 from Lodge general funds to the Masonic Hall Association of
North Sacramento, to be secured by a promissory note issued by the
association in favor of Warren G. Harding Lodge.
San Buenaventura Masonic Temple Association, foe., granted consent to expend approximately $6,000.00 from association funds to remodel, repair and modernize the ground floor of the Masonic temple in
Ventura.
Consuelo Lodge No. 325 and Escondido Masonic Temple Association granted consent to begin construction of a new Masonic temple in
Escondido.
.
Lompoc Lodge No. 262 granted consent to incorporate the Lompoc
Masonic Building Association, and request for permission to transfer
title of real property from the lodge to the association in exchange for
$10,000.00 worth of regular memberships was approved.

Glassell Park Masonic Temple Association's request to refinance the
indebtedness on the temple property· by borrowing $11,000.00 from
California Bank of Los Angeles to be repaid at the rate of $200.00 per
month was approved.
Culver City Lodge No. 467 granted consent to incorporate the Culver
City Masonic Building Association under the non-profit laws of the
State of California.
Victorville Lodge No. 634 granted consent to invest $2,250.00 from
Lodge general funds in regular memberships of the Victorville Masonic
Temple Association. Request of the temple association for permission
to purchase a temple building site in Victorville for a sum not to exceed
$3250.00 was approved.
Square and Compass Building Association of Downey granted consent to expend not more than $8,000.00 in alterations and structural improvements on the temple building in Downey.
Victorville Lodge No. 634 granted consent to incorporate the Victorville Masonic Building Association and request to invest $100.00 from
todge general funds in the voting membership of the association
'pproved.
St. Helena Lodge No. 93 granted consent to incorporate the St.
Helena Building Association and request to invest $100.00 in a voting
membership of the association approved.
El Cerrito Lodge No. 705 granted consent to incorporate the El
Cerrito Masonic Temple Association and request to invest $100.00 from
Lodge funds in a voting membership approved.
Masonic Hall Association of Ontario granted consent to purchase a
new temple building site in Ontario for approximately $17,500.00
East Gate Lodge No. 290 and East Gate Hall Association granted
consent to expend approximately $15,000.00 to repair and renovate the
East Gate Masonic Temple in Los Angeles.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523 granted permission to invest $5,000.00
from lodge general funds in regular memberships of the Bellflower Masonic Temple Association. The money to used to assist in the completion of a new Masonic temple in Bellflower.
.
Mt. Oso Lodge No. 460 granted consent to purchase a new temple
building site for a sum not to exceed $6,500.00.
San Clemente Lodge No. 671 and San Clemente Masonic Temple
Association granted permission to lease premises in San Clemente known
as 223 Del Mar A venue for a period of fi~e years at a monthly rental
rate of $65.00.
Lomita Lodge No. 644 granted consent to invest $4,000.00 from
Lodge general funds in regular memberships of the Lomita Masonic
Temple Association. The money was used to complete a new Masonic
temple in Lomita.

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Crossroads Lodge No. 696 granted consent to invest $300.00 from
Lodge general funds in regular memberships of the Crossroads Masonic
Temple Association.
Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271 and Stonyford Masonic Temple Association granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic
temple in Stonyford, California.
Alhambra Lodge No. 332 granted consent to incorporate the Alhambra Masonic Temple Association, and request for permission to purchase
a temple building site in the City of Alhambra for a sum not to exceed
$36,000.00 was approved. Request to transfer title of real property
owned by the Lodge to the Temple association in exchange for voting
memberships was also approved.
Santa Ynez Valley Lodge No. 701 was granted consent to incorporate the Santa Ynez Valley Masonic Building Association, and request
for permission to invest $100.00 from Lodge funds in the temple association was approved.
Atwater Lodge No. 622 granted permission to incorporate the Atwater Masonic Temple Association, and request for consent to invest
$1,000.00 from Lodge general funds in the association was granted.
San Marino Lodge No. 685 and San Marino Foundation granted
consent to begin construction of a new Masonic temple in the City of
San Marino.
Orinda Lodge No. 704 granted consent to incorporate the Orinda
Masonic Building Association and request for permission to invest
$100.00 from Lodge general funds was approved.
Curtis Lodge No. 140 granted permission to lease lodge quarters in
Cloverdale for a period of five years at a rental of $100.00 per quarter,
payable quarterly in advance.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 and Tehachapi Masonic Temple Association granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic temple
in Tehachapi to replace old temple destroyed by earthquake in July,
1952.
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679 and Canby Cross Masonic Building
Association granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic
Temple in Tulelake, California.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 granted permission to invest $2,056.51
from Lodge general funds in voting memberships of the Monte Vista
Masonic Temple Association.
Point Firmin Lodge No. 558 and Point Firmin Masonic Building
Association granted consent to purchase an unimproved lot adjoining
the temple property in San Pedro for the sum of $3, 400.00.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587 granted permission to incorporate the
Valley Forge Masonic Temple Association, and the request for permission to invest $500.00 from Lodge general funds in voting memberships
of the association was approved.

Fairfax Lodge No. 556 and Fairfax Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic temple in
Larkspur, California.
Charity Lodge No. 362 granted consent to incorporate the Campbell
Masonic Building Association and request to transfer title of a building
site from the Lodge to the association in exhange for regular or voting
memberships in an amount equal to the market value of the property was
approved.
San Simeon Lodge No. 196 granted consent to incorporate the Cambria Masonic Building Association and permission was given to invest
$100.00 from Lodge general funds in a regular membership of the
association.
Masonic Hall Association of Salinas-Appli cation for consent to
purchase two parcels of property situated at the southeast corner of
South Main and John Streets in Salinas for a total price of $115,000.00
was held in abeyance pending receipt of certification of approval of the
purchase of the subject property by Salinas Lodge No. 204. Such certifkation of approval by Salinas Lodge has not been received by the Committee on Lodge Financing. Purchase of the above described property
was made without requesting written permission by the Committee on
Lodge Financing pursuant to Section 78 of the Constitution and Ordinances of Grand Lodge. This transaction involved the sale of property owned by the Masonic Hall Association at Pajaro and Winham
Streets in Salinas for a reported price of $35,000.00: cash in the amount
of $15,000.00: open note at bank of $5,000.00: and a Deed of Trust in
the amount of $60,000.00. The application stated that since the property
was purchased the open note has been paid and the deed of trust has
been reduced to approximately $51,000.00.
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485 and Masonic Building Corporation of
Chowchilla granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic
temple in Chowchilla.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380 and Huntington Beach Masonic
Building Association granted consent to begin construction of a new
Masonic temple ·in the City of Huntington Beach.
Yosemite Lodge No. 99 and Masonic Temple Association of Merced
granted consent to expend approximately $5,000.00 to reinforce the
foundations of tlie Masonic temple in Merced and to seal off the second
story windows and plaster the east wall of the building. Financing of
the project involved transfer of $2,000.00 from the Lodge to the temple
association to be secured ~ya promissory note.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327 and Masonic Temple Association of
long Beach, Inc., granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building
site in Long Beach for a sum not to exceed $22,500.00.
Seaside Lodge No. 504 granted consent to negotiate a lease with

190

192

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

193

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Monte Vista Masonic Temple Association for Lodge quarters in the new
Monte Vista Masonic temple for a period of ten years at the monthly
rental rate of $200.00 per moI)th, payable $12,000.00 in advance and
balance at $100.00 per month.
Laurel Lodge No. 245 granted permission to purchase two shares
of stock in the Willows Masonic Temple Association, par value $200.00,
for $160.00.
Alamo Lodge No. 122 granted consent to loan Walnut Creek Masonic Hall Association $7,000.00 at 4% interest payable at the rate of
$70.00 per month. Walnut Creek Masonic Hall Association was permitted to purchase 589 shares of stock in the Association held by Almona
Chapter No. 214 O.E.S at $5.00 per share. Walnut Creek Masonic
Hall Association granted consent to expend approximately $14,000.00
to build an addition to and to repair and renovate the temple property
in Walnut Creek.
George Washington Lodge No. 525 granted consent to borrow
$7,500.00 from the American Trust Company to be repaid•at the rate of
$100.00 per month including interest at the rate of 5% per annum. The
money to be used for the purpose of redeeming all of the outstanding
stock of the temple corporation, a stock company: and to repay a loan to
the Anglo California National Bank in the amount of $2,850.00. Consent was also granted to George Washington Lodge to incorporate the
George Washington Masonic Temple Association and the request for
permission to dissolve the old stock corporation was approved.
Mt. Diablo Lodge No. 448 granted consent to expend approximately
$3,000.00 to repair and renovate the Mt. Diablo Masonic Temple in
Concord.
Plumas Lodge No. 60 granted consent to incorporate the Plumas
Masonic Building Association and request for permission to purchase
the voting membership in the association by Plumas Lodge was approved.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507 granted consent to invest $10,000.00 from
general funds of the Lodge in regular memberships of the El Segundo
Masonic Temple Association. The money to be used to complete a new
Masonic temple in El Segundo.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547 granted consent to transfer $1,800.00 from
general Lodge funds to the ' Arcadia Masonic Temple Association for
the purpose of paying off an encumbrance on an improved lot adjoining
the temple building in Arcadia. Request for permission to increase the
valu.e of the stock owned by the Lodge in the temple association by
$1,800.00 as evidence of the transfer of the money was approved.
Fort Crook Lodge No. 575 granted consent to incorporate the Fort
Crook Masonic Building Association. Request for permission to transfer $10,000.00 from Lodge general funds to the association was denied

pending receipt of an application setting forth the purposes for which the
money is proposed to be expended.
Artesia Lodge No. 377 and Artesia Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to exchange a temple building site, legally described as
Lot 18, Block 3 of the Town of Artesia for a larger building site known
as a portion of Lot L of the Town of Artesia and containing approximately 31.500 square feet.
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258 granted consent to transfer title of personal
property owned by the Lodge to the newly formed Penrhyn Masonic
Temple Association for $4,000.00 worth of regular memberships in the
association.
Ascot Lodge No. 538 granted consent to incorporate the Ascot Masonic Building Association and the request for permission to purchase a
regular or voting membership in the temple association was approved.
Clay Lodge No. 101 granted consent to expend not more than
$5,000.00 to repair and renovate the temple property in Dutch Flat.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376 granted consent to invest $30,000.00
from general funds of the Lodge to the Francis Drake Masonic Temple
Association: granted consent to transfer title of real and personal property from the Lodge to the temple association for an adequate amount
of regular or voting memberships: consent granted to the Francis Drake
Masonic Temple Association to borrow $30,000.00 from the Bank of
South San Francisco, the loan to be secured by a Deed of Trust and to
be repaid at the rate of $200.00 or more per month including interest at
the rate of 5%. out of income from the temple property. Consent was
also granted to the Francis Drake Masonic Temple Association to begin
construction of a new Masonic Temple in South San Francisco.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576 granted consent to invest $9,000.00
from Lodge general funds in the El Cajon Valley Masonic Temple Association. Consent was also granted to the El Cajon Valley Masonic
Temple Association to commence construction of a new Masonic Temple
in El Cajon, California.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486 granted consent to purchase out of Lodge
general funds 270 shares of stock in the Caledonia Masonic Building
Association for $2,700.00.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212 granted consent to expend not
more than $9,200.00 to repair, alter and repaint the Masonic temple
located at 4705 Third Street, San Francisco. The application for permission to expend the funds indicated that $9,000.00 in cash was deposited in the name of the temple building committee, necessitating the
expenditure of only $200.00 from the general funds of the Lodge.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 and the Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to purchase a future temple building site in Oakland,
California, at a total cost not to exceed $24,000.00 plus escrow fees, title
insurance and survey costs.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

East San Diego Lodge No. 561 and East San Diego Masonic Temple ·
Corporation granted consent to expend not more $5.000.00 to alter and
renovate a portion of the downstairs area of the temple building located
at 3879-43rd Street in San Diego, California.
Mt. Oso Lodge No. 460 granted consent to incorporate the Mt. Oso
Masonic Temple Association. Granted consent to Mt. Oso Lodge to
transfer $7,000.00 from Lodge general funds to the temple association in
exchange for voting memberships. Grants consent to the Mt. Oso Masonic Temple Association to purchase a temple building site for a sum
not to exceed $6.000.00 plus escrow, title and survey costs. provided
proper zoning to permit the building of a Masonic temple thereon, is
obtained.
Woodland Lodge No. 156 granted consent to incorporate the Woodland Masonic Temple Association. Request for permission to invest
$100.00 from Lodge general funds in a voting membership of the association was approved.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 granted consent to invest an additional
$3,000.00 from Lodge general funds in regular m~mberships of the
Monte Vista Masonic Temple Association, the money to be used to
assist in the completion of the Masonic temple in North Long Beach.
Downey Lodge No. 220 granted consent to expend not more than
$5,000.00 from general funds of the Lodge to repair and redecorate the
Masonic temple building in' Downey. California.
Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691 granted consent to expend not
more than $6,000.00 to make necessary repairs and to enlarge the Masonic temple building in China Lake.
The number of applications presented to your Committee has increased by more than seventy percent over last year, and the paper work
has more than doubled. The members of your Committee have served
unselfishly and with a devotion far above the reasonable call of duty.
Your Chairman would like to take this opportunity to thank them individually and collectively, to commend them most highly and to ask
God's blessings upon them.
With increased interest in Lodge Financing problems throughout
the state the members of your Coi;nmittee have been required to sacri.fice more and more of their time and efforts, to travel more to the scene
of temple building activities, to counsel with and encourage the builders.
To meet increased demands on your Committee's services, the Commit.tee on Lodge Financing recommends that an appropriation of $1,200.00
be made to cover necessary expense for the ensuing Masonic year.
The members of your Committee on Lodge Financing are grateful
. for the fine cooperation which has been received from the respective
constituent Lodges and from Masonic inspectors generally. Without
their unselfish and valuable assistance the Committee would have a
most difficult time in carrying out its duties and its responsibilities.

. T.he Committee appreciates the support and fine words of commendation 1t has reecived throughout the year from the Most Worshipful
Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and many others. Thanks so very
mur.h.
Respectfully submitted,

194

EDWARD

195

J. BLICKPELDT

E. HERBERT PHILLIPS
DARRELL R. PURCELL
GLEN

c. HOLBERT

CLINTON T. DUFFY
WALTER

J. PYBON

MARK A. GREEN
HAROLD N. RICHARDS
WILLIAM D. VERBARG

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON MASONIC
INFORMAT ION .
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Information rep'Orts as follows:
At the 1950 and 1951 Communications of Grand Lodge • you r C omd
d
mitt
"70;e prese.nte an recommended for printing a manuscript entitled,
. Questions and Answers about Freemasonry," which was to be
A
..,1str1buted to and used by Lodges and study groups for educational rogra~s and other like activities. At the Centennial Communication p d
aga.m at that of 1951, the accumulation of business to be handled b• ~~
Various Co~mittees and by Grand Lodge prevented the giving or the
e
necessary time and consideration to this work. ·
·
Com
that
before
shortly
but.
.The matter was deferred to 1952,
mumcation • certa·m ob"Jee t"ions were ma d e. either to the substance or to
the
,eb
1
comparatively'
a
though
answers,
and
questions
several
.-:.'i:eo ogy of
. percentage of the whole was involved. These have since bee
~ecti~1dered dby your Committee and explanations, clarifications or corn
~~~

-

a fe~~i:ddition to the few such specific sugg~stions. there seemed to be
error in g on t~e part of one or two that. since . there is a possibility of
lod ~ny~~mg that may be. said about Freemasonry, therefore Grand
s ~u n~t tak~ any definite position at all upon any p~int. If
this
questi~~abve attlt~de is th~ true Masonic method of approach to the
of Masonic education and information, it leaves the Lodges and

9:

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

membership to provide their own source of information, or else remain
in complete ignorance of the Masonic world, except only the Ritual and
the Ordinances of Grand Lodge.
There is one source from which the brethren might receive some
light, viz., the so-called Masonic Magazines, but these, in the judgment
of your Committee, do not attain an average grad~ of more than 5.0%
in the accuracy of their statements. Grand Lodge ts now engaged m a
program of cleaning up the advertising policies of the so-called Masonic
magazines, but it appears unable to correct the errors of. the ~ther pages
for, as we are informed, even the Grand Lodge of Cahforma does not
know what is right. ·
It is the reflection of your Committee that, if the same attitude of
absolute accuracy were insisted upon in the public schools, classes would
have to be restricted to such subjects as mathematics, which contain
internal methods of proving their own verity.
It seems to your Committee, therefore, that the choice which m~st
be made by Grand Lodge lies between giving the brethr~n the best mformation which Grand Lodge can compile through well informed,
though not infallible Committees, or else abandoning all effort to give
the Craft any Masonic Information at all.
Out of 707 Questions and Answers, certainly there must be many,
probably several hundred, that are . so nearly correct that the most
meticulous critics could find no fault m them. If even half of 707 were
salvaged, a big step would be taken by publishing those and leaving
the rest to be settled later.
The Grand Lodge of California ·is just a little over 100 years old, but
it is not generally realized that for approxim~tely the last one-third. of
its life, that is, since 1915, it has been attemptmg to carry on some kmd
of Masonic educational program. It has accomplished very little, because it has never adhered to any program for very long. During the
past thirty-seven years which have witne~sed the ~incere efforts ~f a
number of different Committees on Masonic Education or Information,
your present Committee is the only one that has succeeded in establishing a permanent program, small as it is. We refer to the four booklets
that are handed to the candidate as he passes through the degrees. The
707 Questions and Answers would supplement those books and provide an inexhaustible supply of material for lodge programs of a variety
which would permit a considerable choice of different subjects. T~e
following are the eighteen headings: Origin of Freemasonr y, Gothic
Operative Era, The Transition, Foundation of Grand Lodg~s, European Masonry, The Ancients and the Moderns, Freemasonr y m America Freemasonr y and the Negro, Masonic Literature. Masonic Rituals
in General, Ritual of the Entered Apprentice Degree, Ritual of the Fellow Craft Degree, Ritual of the Master Mason's Degree, Rites of Freemasonry, Masonic Jurisprudence, Freemasonr y and Religion, Free-

masonry Roman Catholicism and Mormonism, and Miscellaneous. Each
of these heads has an average of thirty-five or forty questions on that
particular subject.
Your Committee recommends :
1. That the sum of $5,000 be added to the Grand Secretary's printing appropriatio n for the publication of this book; that three copies
thereof be distributed free to each lodge and that additional copies be
sold to lodges or members at approximate ly the cost of publication to
be estimated by the Grand Secretary.
2. That your Committee be continued, and that there be appropriated for the general expense of your Committee during the ensuing
year the sum of $500.
Respectfully submitted,

196

197

HENRY CorL
ROBERT SHIPPEE

The submitting of the report was not concurred in by Alvin W.
Wendt.
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
.
Finance.

CHARTER S COMMIT TEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters begs to report as follows:
As you have already been informed, Dispensatio ns to form new
Lodges were granted by the Grand Master to the following Lodges on
the dates indicated.
George E. Tutt at Campbell, November 13, 1952.
Acalanes at Lafayette, December 4, 1952.
San Ramon Valley near Danville, December 24, 1952.
Saint John's at Walnut Creek, January 8, 1953.
Yucaipa at Yucaipa, January 19, 1953.
Verdugo Hills at Glendale, May 29, 1953.
Lakewood at Long Beach, June 8, 1953.
Centennial at Compton, June 23, 1953.
Two Rivers at Bell, August 10, 1953.
Polaris at North Sacramento , August 25, 1953.
In addition to these ten new Lodges, four were continued under dispensation at the last Communication of Grand Lodge, namely:
San Lorenzo Valley, Dispensated May 8, 1952.
Estero, Dispensated May I 6, 1952.
Mineral King, Dispensated July 3, 1952.
Home, Dispensated August 7, 1952.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Three of these Lodges requested that they be continued under dispensation to more effectively demonstrate their ability to conduct their
affairs and they have unanimously expressed their conviction that their
request was a wise one.
The records and proceedings of these fourteen Lodges have been examined and with few exceptions found to be in excellent order and we
have been assured that these exceptions will be speedily corrected.

perous and the formation of a new Lodge will materially contribute to
the advancemen t of Masonry in their locality.
We, therefore, recommend that a charter be granted to Mineral King
Lodge No. 720, in the County of Tulare.

198

SAN LoRENZO \TALLEY LODGE U.D.
Lodge, located in Boulder Creek, was instituted
\Talley
San Lorenzo
its membership from the Santa Cruz Moundraws
It
1952.
16,
August
tain towns of Boulder Creek, Felton and Ben Lomond. This Lodge is
the outgrowth of a Masonic Club formed in the \Talley in 1948.
From the outset they have had the active and enthusiastic support of
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38.
Since their dispensation they have increased their membership to 51
acceptance of 2 affiliates and the raising of 3 m~mbers. Their fl.
the
by
nancial condition is sound and they have the use of an adequate and
attractive lodge hall. Their records reveal a well-rounde d program of
Masonic activities.
We, therefore, recommend a charter be granted to San Lorenzo \Talley Lodge No. 718 in the County of Santa Cruz.
EsTERO LoDGE U.D.
Estero Lodge, serving the Cayucos-M orro Bay area, was instituted
August 8, 1952 with 46 charter members. Since then they have gained
16, and 8 brothers are presently receiving the Degrees. The Lodge is
comfortably housed and owns all necessary furniture and paraphernal ia.
Their cash reserve appears to be adequate. The steady growth of the
Lodge, its acceptance by the community and the enthusiasm and diligence
of the officers and members are convincing evidence that this Lodge will
continue to develop and prosper.
We, therefore, recommend that a charter be granted to Estero Lodg~
No. 719 in the County of San Luis Obispo.

U.'D.
Mineral King Lodge was instituted September 13, 1953, in the City
of \Tisalia. They now have a membership of 61, having raised 8 candi·
dates and accepted 6 members by affiliation.
They own the needed equipment and paraphernal ia and have a bank
balance of approximate ly $1, 400.00.
Nearby Lodges and other Masonic bodies have been generous in
their contributions, both spiritual and material, and welcome this new
member into the Masonic family.
Your Committee believes that this is a good example of many cities
in California wherein the existing Lodge or Lodges are large and pros•
MINERAL KING LODGE

199

HOf.rn loDGE U.D.
Home Lodge, located in the rapidly expanding San Fernando \Talley
'
was instituted August 23, 1952.
105
to
membership
their
increased
institution,
their
since
have,
They
by the election of 24 affiliates and the raising of 33 members.
They have sponsored many noteworthy programs, including the presentation last Christmas of a truck load of toys to the children at the
Covina Home. Also 100% of their membership contributed to the Masonic Homes Endowmen t Fund.
The brethren of this Lodge, by their own efforts, fabricated the second floor of a building into an adequate and beautiful meeting place, and
after furnishing it completely, have a bank balance of over $6,000.00.
Home Lodge is filling a real need in the community by providing, in the
words of their Motto, a "Home Away from Home" for sojourning
Masons.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that a charter be granted to
Home Lodge No. 721, in the County o~ Los Angeles.
GEORGE E. Turr loDGE U.D.
George E. Tutt Lodge, located in the Santa Clara \Talley, was instituted December 16, 1952.
During the past year they have demonstrate d their ability to conduct
.
the affairs of their Lodge in a commendable fashion.
Twelve members have been added to the Lodge Roster, making a
total of 58. Prospects are bright for continued growth.
. This Lodge is making a real contribution to the community and is
in. a sound financial condition, having a bank balance of over $2,200.00,
with all bills paid.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that a charter by granted
to George E. Tutt Lodge No. 722, in the County of Santa Clara.
ACALANES loDGE

U.D.

U.D.
U.D.
i These three Lodges were instituted the same night, January 16, 1953,
n the gymnasium of the Acalanes Union High School. with nearly 1.200
~a.ster Masons present, one of the largest tiled meetings of subordinate
,
&..0C1ges to be held in this Grand Jurisdiction.
To the best knowledge of your Committee, this joint institute is
Unique in the Annals of the Grand Lodge of California.
SAN RAMON \TALLEY LODGE
SAINT JoHN's LoDGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

200

201

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

We, therefore, are reporting on these three Lodges collectively as
the conditions surrounding each Lodge appertain to all three. They are
sound financially, have made a healthy gain numerically, and have engaged in a well-rounded program of Masonic activities.
The attendance at the institution of these Lodges is indicative of the
growth and interest in Masonry in this area and augurs well for the
future of these Lodges.
We, therefore, recommend that charters be granted to:
723
in the City of Lafayette

ACALANES LoDGE No.

SAN RAMON VALLEY LoDGE No.

724

near the City of Danville
and
SAINT JoHN's LoDGE No. 725
in the City of Walnut Creek
All in the County of Contra Costa.
YucAIPA LoDGE U.D.
Yucaipa Lodge was instituted March 16, 1953, and is the outgrowth
of a Masonic Club which was formed in 1946.
The Lodge began its existence with 27 charter members, has gained
26 by affiliation and 11 applicants have been accepted, of whom 3 have
been raised.
The meeting place is adequate, its finances are satisfactory, and the
progress already noted justifies the prediction that this Lodge will fill a
real Masonic need in Yucaipa Valley.
We, therefore, recommend that a charter be granted to Yucaipa
Lodge No. 726 in the County of San Bernardino.
VERDUGO HILLS LoDGE U.D.
This Lodge, located in the City of Glendale, is the first Lodge to be
instituted in this city in the past 25 years. Unity Lodge No. 368, in
Glendale, is entitled to consider this Lodge as a daughter Lodge as they
contributed 23 members, including three of their most recent Past Masters and three appointive line officers as well as their enthusiastic support
in every way.
The new Lodge enjoys a favorable lease on their attractive meeting
place, possesses all needed paraphernalia and has a cash balance of approximately $2,000.00.
Among their Masonic activities since their institution was their 100%
membership contribution to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.
We, therefore, recommend a charter be granted to Verdugo Hills
Lodge No. 727, in the County of Los Angeles.

U.D.
adjoining, the City of Long
and
of.
The Lakewoo? area to the north
Beach, has .experie~ce~ a phenomenal growth during the past 5 years,
the population having increased from an estimated 15,000 to well over
J 20,000. Recognizing the need for a Masonic Lodge in the new community, a group of 49 Master Masons requested a dispensation and
.
were instituted on June 20, 1953.
Meeting~ are being ~~l~ in the Alta Loma Temple in North Long
Beach, pending the acquisition of a suitable building within the confines
of ~k~wood. ~hey have most of their needed equipment and an exami~atlon of their records reveals a cash balance in excess of $2,000.00.
Their m~mbe~ship has increased to 54 with the prospect of affiliating
many SOJOurnu~g Masons residing in the area.
The Lodg~ is well endowed with leadership, the Master and Junior
W~rdens havi.ng been Masters of their Lodges in Long Beach in 1951.
while the Senior Warden served his Lodge as Master in 1949. Your
com~itte~ is impressed with the enthusiasm of the group, and the manner m which they conduct their affairs.
Your committee, therefore, recommends that a charter be granted
to Lakewood Lodge No. 728 in the County of Los Angeles.
Centennial, Two Rivers and Polaris Lodges U.D. did not request
~harters. We •. theref~re, recommend that these three Lodges be continued under dispensation for the ensuing year.
LAKEWOOD LoDGE

FoREST LoDGE No. 66
That pordon of the Grand Master's Message pertaining to Forest
Lodge No. 66 at Alleghany has been referred to the Committee on
Charters and we report as follows:
Th~ Secretary, Past Master W. V. Van Doren, answered the Grand
Master s summons, bringing the charter and all records.
Examination of these records and of the files in the Grand Secretary's
office confirms the allegations contained in the Grand Master's Message.
This Lodge was dispensated in November 1854. It is located in one
o~ the more remote are~s of the M~ther Lode country, travel is extremely
difficult and contact with the outside is not always possible in the winter
months.
The Gr~nd Master's summons has now made the officers fully aware
that the existence of their Lodge is in jeopardy and your committee has
been assured that a determined effort will be made to revitalize the Lodge
and correct the faults and omissions noted in the Grand Master's Message.
. Due to lack of time your committee has been unable to complete its
mvestigation and believes that a year's grace should be extended.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

We therefore recommend that final action on this matter be def erred
until the next communication of Grand Lodge.
GLENN c. HOLMES ( 681 )

IN GRAND LODGE

202

WM.

R. · HERVEY, JR. (202)

WM. J. WILLIAMS
HAROLD MEYER
RALPH

(685)

( 481 )

w. COLLINS ( 566)

MILFORD B. ARMSTRONG
BROWN ZARLEY

By separate motion for each item the charters were ordered issued
and the recommendations were adopted.
The entire report was adopted.
At 5:00 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A. M. Wedn~s­
day.

MORNING SESSION, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER

203

14, 1953

Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation.
The Grand Master called attention to the presence of Gaston Smith
and Robert Peabody, each of whom had attended the dedication of the
Masonic Home at Decato 50 years ago on October 14, 1903. Brother
Smith and Brother Peabody were greeted by the brethren with appropriate applause.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTION
MONTH OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
As we approached our seventeenth annual observance of the signing
of the Constitution of the United States of America in September, in
accordance with our custom, it occurred to your committee that while we
could and should pay homage to those great and good men and women
of the past who, by their efforts, made the Freedoms which we enjoy
possible, it was even more important that we as Masons, because of our
heritage, should develop a program which would emphasize the opening
words of that great document, "WE THE PEOPLE," and place emphasis upon what we, as Citizens, could and should be doing to preserve,
protect and defend the Liberties which, as the years come and go, we
are all more and more inclined to take for granted.
In an address by W. G. Vollmer, President of the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company, we found thoughts expressed which provided a basis
upon which to suggest a rededication of ourselves to the "Spirit that
built our Country" by reaffirming the "Four Great Faiths" of our founding fathers. A program was developed on this theme and offered to the
Constituent Lodges of this Grand Jurisdiction in the hope that as we
reaffirmed our Faiths we would thoughtfully remember that down
through the years, because of them:
We have been free to dream, to explore, to invent.
We have been free to work, to achieve, to accumulate.
We have been free to venture, and failing, to venture again.
We have been free to spend our money or to save it.
We have been free to rise from rags to riches.
We have been free to enjoy the fruits of our labors.
The faith of our pioneering ancestors was a living, vital force. It
was what sustained and guided them as they toiled and fought to lay

204

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

se men and
upr igh ts of our Na tion . To the stre ngt h
the fou nda tion and car ve the
of
rce
sou
nt
sta
rly sub stan ce, a con
women Fai th wa s a dai ly, hou
and comfort.
ma teri al
NE ED tod ay to for tify our
Th at is the kin d of Fai th we
stre ngt h.
ling to
CA N hav e tod ay if we are wil
Th at is the kin d of Fai th we
hin gs.
teac
his
ow
foll
k him in his temple,
look to Go d for gui dan ce, see
e ultiiev
ach
to
MU ST hav e if we are
Th at is the kin d of Fai th we
all men of goo d will."
mately, "O n ear th. pea ce to
the time
sho uld remember, also, tha t
In reaffirming our Fai th we
d, not
lea
st
mu
not pro cra stin ate -wh en we
not
te,
has come wh en we mu st act,
uni
st
mu
we
not jus t list en- wh en
st
mu
fol low -wh en we mu st spe ak,
we
,
ths
Fai
our
lare
ugh to me rely dec
eno
not
is
it
e,
aus
bec
ly
,
ide
dai
div
our
our wo rds --b y our wo rks --in
give the m life and me ani ng, by
lives.
tom orr ow
terd ay and the Am eric a of
Bet wee n the Am eric a of yes
the FA ITH ,
has fallen the dut y to pre serv e
a.
sta nds our gen era tion . To us
and the GL OR Y. tha t is Am eric
the HO NO R. the ST RE NG TH
ica te
the Ma ste rs of our Lod ges ind
by
Th e rep orts rec eiv ed, so far , from
m,
gra
pro
the
in
nt
ere
the cha llen ge, inh
sed
res
an ent hus iast ic acc ept anc e of
n exp
nda nce and con tain the ofte
par tici pan ts and tho se in atte
r inc rea sin g
eve
an
for
is
bas
the
will form
des ire tha t this yea r's pro gra m
tici pat ion
par
er
onsibilities in futu re memb
em pha sis upo n our civic resp
pro gra ms.
Lod ge
uln ess sho wn by Ma ste rs and
ting
Th e ima gin atio n and res our cef
sen
pre
Jur isdi ctio n in pla nni ng and
rce
sou
Committeemen thr oug hou t the
a
n
bee
the sug ges ted material has
we
ile
obs erv anc e pro gra ms bas ed on
wh
and
tee
members of this commit
for
e
of prid e and sati fac tion to the
anc
erv
obs
lar
ticu
sing le out any par
reapp
believe it wo uld be unw ise to
l
tefu
gra
our
s
res
exp
we do her eby
special mention, in this rep ort
wit h us.
ciation to all wh o co- ope rate d
pre par ed
ma teri al this committee also
In add itio n to the pro gra m
ber of
num
the
ing
a que stio nna ire ask
milin
and for wa rde d to the Lod ges
tha
er
oth
ice,
serv
e of gov ern me nta l
typ
any
in
are
o
wh
ers
mb
me
sifications ,
div ide d into five . gen era l clas
tary . Th e que stio nna ire wa s
ed tha t the
y and Edu cat ion . It is hop
Nat ion al, Sta te. Cou nty . Cit
ers of this
mb
of ass ista nce to futu re me
info rma tion received will be
ate stak e
tion
por
ms by sho win g the pro
committee in pre par ing pro gra
l ind ica te
wel
as
and
ent ativ e Go ver nm ent
cat ion
we hav e in the affairs of rep res
edu
the
for
d
han
at
tale nt we hav e
the gre at res erv oir of usa ble
ple te the
c activities. If sufficiently com
to this
of our members in useful civi
a
end
will be pre sen ted as an add
res ults of this que stio nna ire
rep ort.
our age d
of this committee sho uld be enc
We feel tha t futu re members

RNI
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO

A

205

h
·
rea se the scope of its act ·v·t
i i ies to t de end th at our dem ons trat ed
.to inc . Con stit utio nal Go ver nm e t
processes, at
mte res t in
tinuin n :n gov ern me nta l
ited to one
all levels, ma y become a con
lim
not
and
am
g p ogr
month or one wee k in the yea r.
.
per son nel of th
We rec om me nd tha t the bud
tee be red uce d and
mit
com
e
1
f
t
g
tha t provision be ma de in its
ting of the wh ole
~ee
be :e: : ~: ~ast one
committee to the end tha t the
and abi lity of
nce
erie
exp
.
the
le t th
par ing futu re
alJ its members ma y be ava ilab
pre
o e c airm an in
pro gra ms and obs erv anc es.
Res pec tful ly submitt~d
RA LPH C . HIN E

•

AIN
RIC HAR D H. CHA MB ERL
DY
LEN
. HO WA RD ME
DA LE
WIL LIA M

c.

FRA NK E. JUD Y
H. Gu y WA LFO RD
ARC HIE D. MIT CHE LL
0B ED W. CAR R
WIL LAR D A. BRA ASC H

c.

CON EY
HER BER T
OKE
BRO
H.
N
JOH
CHE STE R M. GJE RD E
DO NA LD E. BLA UER T

Ref erre d to' Com mit tee on Fin

anc e.

RE PO RT OF CO MM ITT EE

RA LPH SPA RLI NG

ON CR ED EN TIA LS

.
Lod ge o{ C a(•t
i1 ornia·
the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra nd
To T
ma kes the re ort th. t
he Com mit tee on Cre den tial s tha t 13 of t6 I d a of 615 c~artered
ed;
ent
res
rep
~ges , 599 lodges areand
o ges und er d1spensathe tota l reg1.s t rati.on is e216
1.
res ent ed •
t1on are rep
.
Fra tern ally sub mit ted ,

Lam s SUT TER
WIL BU R D. CRO SBY
C. STA NLE Y CHA PM AN
THO MA S F. MA SON
CAR ROL L A. TRE FTS
CA RL WA LTE R
REG INA LD FUD GE

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

206

RE

MM ITT EE
PO RT OF SO JO UR NE RS CO

Lod ge of California:
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra nd
ge
our ner s' Committee of Gra nd Lod
Thi s is the 2nd yea r for the Soj
California.
to be functioning in the Sta te of
:
We respectfully rep ort as follows
.
California continues to exp and
of
te
iThe population of the Sta
rox
app
at
set
are
e
vals in this stat
ny
Estimates of new per man ent arri
e new California citizens are ma
thes
ng
amo
k;
mately 1,000 per wee
enbe
countries. The se men should
fine Ma son s from oth er stat es and par t of California Ma son ry. We
a
cou rag ed to affiliate and become ted in most stat es and in ma ny
mit
per
now
ship
ber
mem
l
fl.nd dua
countries.
wn a
Cal ifor nia Ma son ry hav e sho
Initiations in Blue Lodges of
nd
Gra
tern
Eas
all
is par ticu larl y true of
ary
stea dy decline since 194 7. Thi s
ess
nec
is
It
s.
our
re abr upt tha n
Lod ges --o nly the ir decline is mo
n a firm, stea dy growth.
ntai
mai
to
ry
for California Ma son
met
r, you r Soj our ner s' Committee
Dur ing the rec ent Masonic yea
tee
mit
Com
ge
Lod
Los Angeles. Blue
s
in San Francisco, Riverside and
ster
Ma
s.
ting
mee
se
pate in some of the
Cha irm en wer e invited to partici
con
ed
tact
con
e
wer
e
stat
ugh out the
and Wa rde ns' Associations thro
cerning the Soj our ner s' activities.
to
visited numerous Blue Lodges
Th e members of you r Committee ms. Th e wo rk of Bro the r Na progra
s'
discuss and propose Soj our ner s'
ortance in bringing the Soj our ner
imp
lar
ticu
par
Dell E. Jensen was of
message.
red opinion tha t the gre at portion
Yo ur Com mit tee is of the conside
the Blue
ners must be accomplished at
of wo rk to be don e on Sojour
Lodge level.
set
uen t lodges wer e req ues ted to
In Sou the rn Cal ifor nia con stit
nd
Gra
h
Eac
ht.
yea r as Soj our ner s' nig
he
aside one meeting nig ht in the
ch
whi
in
a
are
the
ass ign ed lodges in
To
Lodge Committee member was
lts.
resu
ng
agi
our
enc
definite and
nia,
lived. Thi s procedure pro duc ed
s' nights held in Sou the rn Califor
nei:
our
Soj
28
n
lts
dat e, the re hav e bee
resu
e
Th
been over 125 per meeting.
and the ave rag e atte nda nce has
from
s
ner
our
Ma son s over 60% wer e Soj
show tha t of the atte nda nce by
our ner s'
le, on Ma y 29, 1953, at a Soj
mp
oth er jurisdictions. For exa
lodges
ller
sma
the
of
nia, which is one
and
Nig ht held at Banning, Califor
87
was
g
nin
eve
the
for
l atte nda nce
14
in Sou the rn California, the tota
h
wit
ner s from oth er jurisdictions
s,
of this num ber 51 wer e Soj our
ner
our
Soj
been indicated tha t of the 51
ge.
stat es being rep rese nte d. It has
lod
t
tha
of
s
to become active member
5 of them exp ress ed the desire
ges and
results in one of the smaller lod
the
Thi s gives an {ndication of
lt.
resu
like
a
ws
er lodges sho
the rati o between tha t and the larg

NIA
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR

In our several meetings

C

207
·

.

es
a~~U::ttee ~as work~d out a seriies
of
"As sist s" for Blue Lod ge M::;t~:s
en. Cop

of

e f th om~1ttee Chairm
these are enclosed but becaus 0 f th~ rat er substantial amount of
d h
l need not be ma de a p rt
r

materia
ts rep ort We ecommen t ese
. ts .. be forw ard ed to thea Blo Lod
"A ss1s
aste rs tog eth er wit h a
ue . ge
on
Jetter from the Gra nd Ma ster
q;:,;~ting a written ann ual rep ort
Soj our ner activities within the Bl:e
h ~e.
and
The etforts of you r Committeee
as een ~ stim~late, encourage
end
ir
the
in
ges
will
lts
ass ist the Blue Lod
resu
1"f ea~or. W e believe the
continue to build Ma son ry in C
tinu
con
t;eo~;a~he e recomme~d the to assist
anc e of you r Soj our ner s' Commi:
r
yea
objective. nex t Masonic
the Jodg~s in accomplishing this
.
d M
We recommend tha t the Gra
e ~o all lodges within
issu
er
;s~
·1
er
lett
a
the Sta te of California
our ner s' Committee
Soj
tte
yf
e
Mp i
giving his encouragement to the aste~s o t e lodges and expressing
his desire tha t the y set aside o meeting nig ht during the yea r to be
ne
designated Soj our ner s' Nig ht.
.
t the Gra d Lod f urnish
We recommend thaion
the Soj our ner s' Com ge
~
t
er
stat
mittee wit h pro per
enc e
Ce use~tfor the official cor resp ond
o£ the Gra nd. Lodge So1'ournyers~ ommit ee.
.
Th e C ha1rman and th C
e bem ber s desire to tha nk Gra nd
tte
~:u
an~
:
rre
Wa
M.
hur
Art
Ma ster
the fine
toe :e~ ~rs of Gra nd Lodge for
spirit of cooperation ext end ed
yea r.
ic
son
Ma
ent
rec
. urm g the
Tha nk you for the opp ortu nit y given us to ren der Masonic service.
Fra tern aJly submitted,
CHE STE R R. Mc FEE
NA DEL L E. JEN SEN

M

c:

AN THO NY }. OLI VER
GEO RGE A. FRE NCH
O'B RYA N
}AM ES
CHA RLE S E. BRADLEY
CON LEY L. LAF ORC E
}OE A. TAY LOR
ART HUR L. BEL L
MA RCU S A. Wo oDW ARD

w.

WA YN E GLE ASO N
E. THE ODO RE Foa o
}AM ES HEN DER SON
}OH N A. MA RTI N
liAR OLD }.K IRC HER

Ii. H. HEN DRO N
FRE D H. BLA NCH ARD
CHA S. H. GRA CE

208

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF 'COMMITTEE ON REPRESENTATIVES'
MILEAGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 104th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge:
Those entitled to compensation are: The duly accredited Representatives of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand M_asters, Officers of Gra~d
Lodge and the Chairmen and Members of Committees enumerated m
Sectio~ 68 of the Ordinances, who are actually in attendance ~t Grand
Lodge.
Compensation of members has been computed on the basis of twice
the one-way first class railway fare, plus Pullman Sleeper _wh~re necesAs has been the custom for many years, no compensation 1s allowed
sary.
· · "ty~ or w h ere th e
to members from San Francisco or the immed"1ate v1cm1
prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
Transportation rates have been computed from all points in Calif~r. and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the payroll with
~~: registration records as submitted to us by the ~ommittee on Credentials. The amount required to meet the transportation costs for the 1953
Convocation is as follows:
Grand Lodge OfBcers......•-·····························....: .. $ 889.91
652.16
Past Grand Masters. .......................................... .
1,083.04
Committees ....•..•......................................•......•....
Inspectors ............................................................ 4,741.66
Representatives .................................................. 20,505.89

----

Total ······-········-·-····•··········································$27,872.66
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, and the AngloCalifomia National Bank, for making the necessary arrangements so
that members may cash their checks in this buildin~ a~ th~ close of ~he
Grand Lodge session. Checks will be ready for d1stri~:mt1on follow1~g
the election of the Junior Grand Warden, Friday morning at the Registration desk, Polk Hall. Checks not called for will be mailed by the
Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
LoYD C. CAMPBELL
JOHN V. BACIGALUPI
KEITH W. ScHLAEGEL

Ref erred to Committee on Finance.

209

REPORT ON OVERSIZE LODGES
NOTE:
The Committee on Oversize Lodges spent several months on the subject, and, as a
reaul!, p;ese~ed a most i~eresting refX!ri. _the complete text of which is too long for
publication in the Proceedings. The highlights of its findings and the conclusion are
presented herewith. The entire report is on file for study by anyone wishing to do so.
Grand Secretary.
REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON OVERSIZE LODGES

Interested in knowing what other Grand Jurisdictions were doing in
this field, the Committee sent a questionnaire to all Grand Lodges as
follows:
"1. Does your Grand Lodge restrict the size of membership in its
constituent lodges?
2. Do you limit the number of candidates or degrees which a lodge
may have in a year?
·
3. If you have such restrictions, what are the laws or rules concerning same?
4. Has your Grand Lodge given consideration, by committee study
or otherwise, to these questions? If so, what was done?
5. What, if anything, do you do toward sponsoring or fostering the
formation of new lodges?"
Replies were received from 50 Grand Lodges in the United States
and Canada. All answered Question No. 1 in the negative. Only 2
(Pennsylvania and New York) answered Question No. 2 in the affirmafl'le. In reply to Question No. 5, all Grand Lodges advised that they
l*\couraged the formation of new lodges-with the single exception of
Missouri. Montana recently chartered a lodge with 230 chartered
members.
New York's solution on the limitation of candidates for degrees is
as follows:
"Except upon dispensation from the Grand Master providing
otherwise, no lodge shall confer any degree on more than five ( 5 )
candidates at a time or more than one degree within any seven
( 7) consecutive days.
"A lodge shall not confer the Second Degree or the Third
Degree on the same candidate at a less interval than two weeks
from the time of conferring the preceding degree."
Pennsylvania's law on the same subject is as follows:
"Lodges under 600 members are unlimited as far as the number of their initiations are concerned: Lodges between 600 and
700 members may receive 10 petitions monthly: if 700 members,
only 9 petitions monthly: if 800 members, only 8 petitions monthly: if 900 members, only 7 petitions monthly: if 1000 members,
only 6 petitions monthly: and if 1100 or more members, only 5
petitions monthly."
Examining the California situation, your Committee found 613

210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

chartered lodges with 1400 dispensations and with 213,677 members.
California now has the largest number of lodges under dispensation in
any one year since 1933. According to size, the 613 lodges fall into the
•
following gtQIJJ>tt:
1
500 or< Im..... -·-·····················~----··············-·········-·-:.. 4 79
501 to 150.....:.................................................................. 104
751 to 1000...................................................................... 19
Over 1000 ...................................................................... 11
Therefore, taking the figure of 500 as a desirable maximum membership, our problem affects only 134 lodges, or a little more than one-fifth
of the lodges in the jurisdiction. In the group with over 1000 members,
the venue of the "offenders" is as follows: San Diego, 3; Los Angeles,
2: Oakland, 2; and Vallejo, Hollywood, Fresno and Huntington Park,
1 each. However, this picture as of July 31, 1952 was not too black. The
largest lodge in the State had a membership of only 1240.
As early as March 27, 1953, the members of your Committee, by
correspondence, considered a suggestion for limiting the yearly net gain
of all large lodges. We felt that it was unwise to decrease their present
sizes and we would allow replacements for the yearly loss by deaths,
demits and suspensions, which reach a considerable figure. For instance,
the lodge of your Chairman loses an average of 25 to 30 members a year.
Suppose that we limit a lodge with over 1000 members to an annual net
gain of 1 %: a lodge with 751 to 1000 members to an annual net gain of
2%: and a lodge of 501 to 750 members to an annual net gain of 3%.
After being informed of the Pennsylvania law, we compared our own
ideas with it, and we have up to date continued our analysis. We consider that our proposed plan is preferable to the Pennsylvania rule for
the following reasons:
1. A check-up on each lodge on a yearly basis, rather than monthly,
gives a better overall plan, and would be simpler to administer,
both by Grand Lodge and the constituent lodges.
2. Since it is based on net increase, it allows for replacements for
losses by death. demit and suspensions.
3. It would not result in the rejection or postponement of desirable
applicants.
4. It would check the growth of large lodges because the net percentage gain is less than the current gross growth of many of
such lodges, whereas under the Pennsylvania rule, the large
lodges may continue their growth by a rather large rate.
Your Committee, after completing their study of all suggestions
which we have been able to obtain, have reached the conclusion that a
limitation of the annual net gain of all lodges with over 500 membe_rs is.
desirable; and we therefore recommend it to you for your consideration.
Our recommendations and suggestions are as follow:
1. We endorse the proposed legislation for plural membership and
urge you to vote in favor of it.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

211

2. We recommend that the Officers, Past Masters and particularly
the Inspectors, in San Diego and the other metropolitan areas
encourage and help to organize new lodges. This is their responsibility. We also urge Grand Lodge to aid and assist in every
, possible way.
3. We propose the following suggestions, any one of which may be
adopted, with or without amendments, or all of which may be
rejected by you, as matters of policy, with the necessary legislation to follow at the 1954 Communication:
a. All lodges shall be limited to an annual net gain as follows:
Those having a membership of over 1000 members, 1 % of its
total membership as of July 31 of the preceding year; membership of 751-1000 members, 2%: membership of 501-750, 3%.
b. Provide that no lodge shall confer the Second or Third Degrees
upon the same applicant at an interval less than four weeks
from the time of conferring the preceding degree.
c. Provide that no lodge shall confer the Third Degree upon more
than one applicant at any one meeting. nor confer the First
Degree or the Second Degree upon more than three applicants
at any one meeting.
d. Provide that no lodge shall confer any Degrees upon more than
three applicants at any one meeting.
e. Provide that no lodge shall confer the Third Degree upon more
than one applicant at any one meeting.
f. Provide that no lodge shall engage in the conferring of Degrees
more often than once every two weeks.
g. Provide that lodges hereafter constituted shall be limited to a
membership of 500, except that applications may be received
at times from the sons, brothers, sons-in-law or nephews of the
members.
( NoTE: It is suggested that the drafting of legislation for b, c, d,
e, and f might easily be accomplished through amending Section
221 of the Constitution. Perhaps Sections 34 and 37 might also
be amended in order to allow the Grand Master to grant dispensations for additional Degrees and also to 6x the amount of fees
for this "service."
4. That this Committee, having completed its assignment, be discharged.
Fraternally submitted,
CYRIL W. McCLEAN

EDWARD T. KOPORD
FRANK BARBONI
WILLIAM C. NEUENDORPP
WILLIAM BACHMAN

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

212

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
JUDGE ADVOCATE

ever, be recognized that the final responsibility for any ruling must rest
upon the Grand Master and that the function of the judge advocate
would be purely advisory.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the 1952 Convocation of Grand Lodge, the then Grand Master.
himself a judge, reported with praise upon the services rendered during
the year by the Junior Grand Warden in doing the necessary research
and preparing the text for most of the Grand Master's legal rulings
(Proceedings 1952, page 21).
As a result of the invaluable assistance to this Grand Master in this
respect, he recommended that a Special Committee be appointed to
report at the next annual communication of Grand Lodge upon the
advisability of this Grand Lodge establishing an office to be designated
as Judge Advocate (Proceedings 1952, page 26 ).
This recommendation was referred to the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, which recommended favorably upon the appointment
of such a committee. The recommendation was adopted by the Grand
Lodge (Proceedings 1952, page 304) and such a committee was ap#
pointed. (Proceedings, Grand Lodge. 1952, page 435).
Your committee deemed it advisable to seek the views of the six
most recent Past Grand Masters upon the subject and accordingly did so.
With a degree of unanimity surprising among Past Grand Masters,
each of the six approved and recommended the creation of such an office.
There can be no doubt but that a heavy burden rests upon the
shoulders of our Grand Master. As our fraternity grows, its problems
increase in number. The Grand Master is called upon to supervise the
general administration of Grand Lodge affairs. His travel. visitation,
and ceremonial duties are heavy and time#consuming. He is called upon
to make decisions and rulings on a wide variety of matters. Many of
these require extensive study of the provisions of our Constitution and
Ordinances and frequently a studious research of former rulings and
decisions of Grand Lodge, and, in some instances, an examination of
Masonic literature. Some Grand Masters, by virtue of legal training,
are peculiarly adapted to such a type of work. Others, not members of
the legal profession, may not possess such ability in a marked degree.
In any event, it appears that the Grand Master merits and deserves
such assistance as Grand Lodge can provide for him in relieving against
these heavy duties.
It would be a privilege of the Grand Master to utilize the services
of a judge advocate as much or as little as he chooses. It should, how#

It has also been suggested, and the suggestion seems to have merit,
that if the judge advocate was a skilled parilamentarian, he might be
of great assistance to the Grand Master in passing upon some of the
knotty problems of parliamentary law which arise with some frequency
during our sessions of Grand Lodge.
It appears that the Grand Lodge of New York has an officer known
as judge advocate and that the use of such an officer has met with sin#
gular success in that Grand Lodge.
Based upon its study of the problems and the opinions of the Past
Grand Masters consulted thereon, your committee believes it to be
desirable that this Grand Lodge should add to its list of officers that
of judge advocate; such officer to be a Master or Past Master in good
standing who shall act as the legal advisor of the Grand Master with
such duties as the Grand Master may prescribe.
Accordingly, we so recommend.
To accomplish this end, it appears that Article II of Section 3 of the
Constitution, dealing with the composition of Grand Lodge, should be
amended by inserting in the list of officers a judge advocate and that a
new section, numbered 50#a, should be added to the Ordinances pre#
scribing the qualifications and duties of such judge advocate.
We therefore further re~ommend that, after study by the appro#
priate committees of Grand Lodge, Article II, Section 3, of the Con#
stitution be amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 3. The Grand Lodge shall be composed of a Grand Master,
(whose address shall be Most Worshipful), a Deputy Grand Master,
a Senior Grand Warden, and a Junior Grand Warden (whose addresses
shall severally be ,Right Worshipful), a Grand Treasurer, a Grand
Secretary, a Grand Lecturer, and a judge advocate (whose addresses
shall severally be Very Worshipful). a Grand Chaplain (whose address
shall be Very Reverend), the Assistant Grand Lecturer, a Grand Orator,
an Assistant Grand Treasurer, an Assistant Grand Secretary, a Grand
Marshal. a Grand Standard Bearer, a Grand Sword Bearer, a Grand
Bible Bearer, a Senior Grand Deacon, a Junior Grand Deacon, two
Grand Stewards, a Grand Pursuivant, a Grand Organist, and a Grand
Tiler (whose addresses shall severally be Worshipful): together with
all Past Grand Officers and Past Masters of this jurisdiction, and the
Masters and Wardens of the several chartered and duly constituted
Lodges, or the representatives thereof duly elected.":
and that a new section numbered 50#a be added to the Ordinances
of G.rand Lodge, reading as follows:

215

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

"Judge Advocate.
"Sec. 50-a. The Judge Advocate shall be a Master or Past Master
in good standing and shall be the legal adviser of the Grand Master
with such duties as the Grand Master may prescribe."

The movement to erect a Masonic memorial to George Washington
began February 22, 1910, at a meeting of the representatives of 18
Grand Lodges, in the Lodge Room of Alexandria-Washington Lodge
at Alexandria, Virginia. Our representative was Oscar Lawler, Senior
Past Grand Master, who was then Junior Past Grand Master. Brother
Lawler suggested that a fireproof replica of the Lodge hall as a memorial
building-to cost around $50,000.00-be erected to house and safeguard
the Washington Masonic relics. With the passing of 43 years and the
expenditure of more than $5,668,000.00, the Memorial is now near
completion.
American Freemasons have labored to create this Memorial, this
majestic temple, to the memory of the Father of our country. The great
aim was not to add to the enduring luster of his name but to hand down
to coming generations a monument to one who was an ornament to
Freemasonry.
As above indicated, this Grand Lodge, at its Annual Communication
in 1947, flxed its proportion of the full cost of the Memorial, including
the endowment thereof. at..........••............•...;......................... $463,653.35
on which contributions have been made as follows:

214

Respectfully submitted,
FRANK B. BELCHER
EARL B. MEYERS
MERTON M. JACOBS
RALPH HECKLER
GEORGE WASHBURN

Referred to Committee on Policy and General purposes.

REPORT ON GEORGE ·w ASl-llNGTON MASONIC
NATIONAL MEMORIAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The annual convention of the George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association was held in the Memorial at Alexandria, Virginia,
on February 23, 1953, Clifford D. Jory of Iowa, President, presiding.
Arthur M. Warren, Grand Master: Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary,
member of the Executive Committee and Board of Directors of the
association; Frank Harwell, Jr., Deputy Grand Master: and your reporter
comprised the California delegation. The Secretary-Treasurer, Frederick G. Schondau, reported contributions to the Memorial fund aggregating $175,024.90, of which our Grand Lodge contributed $40,090.50,
which evoked prolonged applause. Our contribution was applied:
$9,300.00 to the Endowment Fund aiid $30,790.50 to the Building Fund.
For more than a decade prior to 1948 our Grand Lodge had eschewed
its privilege to contribute to the Memorial fund. In 1947 the Grand
Master appointed Past Grand Master William B. Ogden as chairman
of a committee to give consideration to California's delinquency. This
committee calculated our obligation toward erecting and endowing the
Memorial to be $463,653.35, all of which has now been contributed
except $75,922.40. Since 1948 Brother Ogden has been regional chairman of the association's Ways & Means Committee, and he now holds
the respected position as California's champion of the Memorial. In
his absence this year, your reporter, at the request of Brother Ogden,
attended the meeting of the Ways & Means Committee, with some
interesting and instructive consequences.

To and including 1947................................ $171,467.30
1948-$1.00 per new member.................... ..
1,255.00
194815c levy fund ..........................- - - 1949-$1.00 per new member..................... .
6,409.00
1949l 5c levy fund .......................... 50,000.00
9,948.00
1950-$1.00 per new member....... ~..............
1950l 5c levy fund. ......................... 31,153.75
9,248.00
1951-$1.00 per new member......................
1951l 5c levy fund .......................... 29.144.10
9,021.00
1952-$1.00 per new member......................
195215c levy fund ..........................' 29,994.30
9,300.00
1953-$1.00 per new member......................
1953l 5c levy fond .......................... 30,790.50

387,730.95

Remaining uncontributed balance, Oct. 1953.............. $ 75,922.40
Grand Lodge has on hand, which has been collected since the last
Annual Communication, the following sums:
From the l 5c levy...._....................................$31,622.85
From the $1.00 per new mem:ber.................. 10,056.00
Total ········--~··-~····-··················•··-···········•··$f 1,678.85
Since our portion of the Building Fund has already been contributed,

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it is my recommendation that this total sum of $41.678.85 be committed
to the Endowment Fund.
I therefore offer the following resolution :
Resolved:
That the per capita levy of 15c per member be continued during the
current Grand Lodge year and that the proceeds therefrom be added
to the fund known as the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Fund: that the funds on hand from the 15c levy and the $1.00 per
new member fund, aggregating $41,678.85, be remitted to the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association at or prior to
its Forty-fourth Annual Convention on February 22, 1954, and committed to the Endowment Fund.
Respectfully submitted,

and ritualistically in all its relations, to the Ancient Landmarks, Customs
and Usages of the Craft, including adherence to the following:
a. The Volume of the Sacred Law as a part of the furniture of the
Lodge and obligation of all candidates thereon.
b. That Masons be made of men only.
c. Secrecy.
d. The symbolism of the Operative Art.
e. The division of symbolic Masonry into the three degrees Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason.
f. The legend of the Third Degree.
g. That its Lodges are strictly non-sectarian and non-political. Its
dominant purposes are charitable, benevolent, educational and religious.
The State of Piaui is surrounded by Grand Lodges-all of which
are recognized by our Grand Lodge--as follows: Ceara on the east;
Bahia on the south; and Para farther west. From California's position
Piaui is therefore a Masonic vacuum. The Grand Lodge of Piaui is
now recognized by a number of other Grand Lodges, includin_g Idaho,
Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Texas and Utah.
We therefore move that the Grand Lodge of the State of Piaui,
Brazil. be recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.
THE GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M .. OF CHINA.
This Grand Lodge descended from the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, which in turn owes its existence to the Grand Lodge of
California. The Grand Lodge of China was therefore lawfully organized and fully meets our recognition tests detailed above. It has been
recognized by and is now in fraternal amity with many Grand Lodges,
including the Philippines, Alabama, Idaho, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Jersey, North Dakota, Oregon,
South Carolina, Utah, Vermont, Washington and Wisconsin.
We therefore move that the Grand Lodge of China be recognized
by the Grand Lodge of California.

216

JOHN R. MOORE

State Chairman of this
Grand Jurisdiction
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RECOGNITION
OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
You committee has made diligent inquiry relating to the several
petitions from foreign jurisdictions seeking recognition by our Grand
Lodge, and reports as follows:
THE GRAND LODGE OF P1Am (GRANDE LoJA Do P1Aur), BRAZIL.
This Grand Lodge is located at Teresina, the capital city of the
State of Piaui in northeast Brazil. It was organized by three regular
Lodges on November 13, 1948, and constituted on December 9, 1948,
under the sponsorship of the Grand Lodge of the State of Rio de Janeiro,
which was recognized by our Grand Lodge last year and with which
we are still in fraternal accord.
This Grand Lodge meets our test for recognition as follows:
1. Legitimacy of Origin: It was legally organized by three regular
Lodges.
2. Territorial Sovereignty: It is an independent, self-governing
organization, having exclusive, dogmatic Masonic authority over resident Masons and the three symbolic degrees in the State of Piaui.
3. Monotheism: As an indispensable condition to membership, it
requires a belief in the existence of God, the Great Architect of the
·
Universe.
4. Further Essentials to Recognition: It subscribes, fundamentally

217

GRAND LoDGE OF BERLIN (GROSSE LoGE VON BERLIN).

This Grand Lodge is apparently located in the Eastern Zone of
Germany behind the Iron Curtain. Information at hand indicates that'
it was not lawfully organized and that it does not meet our recognition
tests.
We therefore move that the application for recognition by the Grand
Lodge of Berlin be rejected.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
CHESTER H. w ARLOW
By separate motion for each item the recommendations were adopted.
The entire report was adopted.

219

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The Most Worshipful Angus Y. Bethune, Grand Master of Masons
in Idaho, at the invitation of the Grand Master, favored Grand Lodge
with an address.

are comforted only by our faith in God, our belief in the immortality of
the soul, and the healing influence of time.
Death has laid a heavy hand upon the membership of this Grand
Lodge in the past year, and the report your Committee brings to you is
sad indeed. Not within its long history have so many of its most prominent leaders and its most beloved members answered the final call
within such a short period of time. Since the last communication of the
Grand Lodge 212 of our members have crossed the Great Divide. We
have lost five Past Grand Masters-William Rhodes Hervey of Los
Angeles, James Thomas Fraser of Eureka, Robert Brainerd Gaylord
of Oakland, Arthur William Brouillet of San Francisco, and Will H.
Fischer of Los Angeles. Special eulogies will be delivered in their honor
later in this Memorial Service.
We have lost two members of the Officers Corps-the Very W orshipful Grand Lecturer Walter Hans Emil van Kansky of San Francisco, and the Worshipful Alvin E. Melim, Junior Grand Steward of
Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii. Also the Vice President of the Trustees
of Masonic Homes, Leonard Gross of Downey; two Inspectors, Harry
Stanley Clark of San Diego and William L. Davis of Lone Pine, and
Dr. Willsie Manning Martin, Grand Chaplain in 1950.
California Masonry also lost one of its best friends and staunchest
supporters in the passing of Dr. Hua Chuen Mei, prominent Masonic
leader in China and the Philippine Islands.
Time does not permit the roll call of all our deceased members, but
their names will be listed in permanent records of this meeting.

218

MEMORIAL SERVICE
1.

Wednesday, October 14, 1953
Song: "Unto Thee Will I Pray" (First Performance) ....Anderson
Carl Hooper, Alta Vista Lodge No. 464

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.

Invocation ··-···················-··························-·············Grand Chaplain
Report of Committee on Necrology..........Roy C. Bryan, Chairman
Eulogy for James T. Fraser ................By Leon 0. Whitsell, P.G.M.
Song: "At Thy Feet" ....•••......................•.•..............................•.•.Bach
Eulogy for Arthur W. Brouillet............By Leslie E. Wood. P.G.M.
Organ Solo: ''Adieu" ..................................................................PtiinJ
Eulogy for Robert .B. Gaylord............By Arthur S. Cl'ites, P.G.M.
Song: "There Is No Death"·····················-·····························O'Hara
Eulogy for Will H. Fischer............By Claude H. Morrison, P.G.M.
Organ Solo: "Crossing the Bar" ................:......... Tennysort-Barnby
Eulogy for William Rhodes Hervey..By Ellsworth Meyer, P.G.M.
Memorial Song: "Taps"···················-································-Cu.stance
Benediction ............•...........•....................................... Grand Chaplain

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY

WALTER HANS EMIL voN KoNSKY

"We sta~d between the barren peaks of two eternities; we seek to
pierce beyond the veil: but have no answer from the darkness, save the
echo of our cry."
All existence has its beginning and ending in birth and death: it is
God's immutable law. We rejoice in birth, we sorrow in death. We
sorrow in death only in proportion to its closeness to us. It has been
estimated that two people die in this world every second. That is 120
every minute, 7,200 every hour, 172,800 every day~ 63,072,000 every
year. More people have been buried on the banks of the Nile than there
are people living in this world today.
Such staggering figures make little or no impression upon us. We
may be shocked, but we do not grieve nor lament the loss of three
million by starvation in far off India, nor the destruction of hundreds of
thousands in the floods of the Yangtze, nor when whole communities
are destroyed by earthquake in some distant land.
. It is when death beckons those with whom we have been closely
associated: those whom we have known well, admired greatly and loved
much, the members of our own family. Then we grieve and mourn and

Death, as it must to all men, came to the Very Worshipful Walter
H. E. van Kansky, Grand Lecturer, November 3, 1952, and in his passing we lost a helpful friend, a sincere and constructive Mason, and an
esteemed citizen.
The son of Harry and Caroline Wilhelmina van Kansky, Walter was
born in Cincinnati, Ohio, May 28, 1892. His parents brought him to
San Francisco at an early age and with a few intervals he lived the
balance of his life in that city.
In his business career he followed in the footsteps of his father, who
was a journalist and editor, having published for many years the "California Democrat", an early San Francisco newspaper. Following the
earthquake and fire of 1906 Walter was indentured as apprentice in the
composing room of the San Francisco Evening Post. After completing
his apprenticeship he became a member of the International Typographical Union, and in the capacity of journeyman worked in the composing rooms of many newspapers and commercial and publication
printers, both in San Francisco and in some of the larger cities of the
middle west. In 1923 he acquired the sole proprietorship of the Elite

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Printing Company, which he owned and operated until his death. His
activities in the affairs of the San Francisco Typographical Union were
so outstanding that he was elected President of the San Francisco Printing Trades Council, and served two terms in that office.
Walter was a man of great energy and enthusiasm. When he was
initiated in Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517 in 1922 he found something
worthy of his energy and his talents, and for the succeeding thirty years
he was most active working energetically for its success and its happiness. He dimitted from Mount Vernon Lodge to become a Charter
Member of Seaport Lodge No. 550, which was instituted February 22.
1923. He held all offices in the line from Junior Steward in 1923 to
Master in 1929. He served as Secretary and later as President of the
San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association. also served as President of the San Francisco Past Masters Association.
He first became an officer in the Grand Lodge on January 1, 1935
when Grand Master Earl Warren appointed him Inspector of District
No. 41. He served in this office until October 18, 1946. when he was
appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer, and was re-appointed in 194 7-48.
He was elected Grand Lecturer October 14, 1949.
·
Walter was deeply interested in the activities of his daughter Viola,
and when she became an officer of the International Order of Job's
Daughters he became Associate Guardian and worked in that position
for several years. In 1944 he was Patron of Seaport Chapter No. 427
Order of Eastern Star, when his daughter was Worthy Matron. He
joined Mission Chapter Royal Arch Masons but later dimitted to San
Francisco Chapter No. 1.
In the City of San Francisco on March 25, 1916 Walter was married
to Miss Clara Scherr. Of this union three children were born, Viola
Martha, Arthur Walter and Bertram Carl, all of whom survive him.
In 1950 he conferred the three degrees of Masonry on his two sons.
and in all probability the meeting of Seaport Lodge on September 19,
1950 gave him greater happiness than any other meeting he had ever
attended, for on that evening he raised his sons to the Sublime Degree.
Walter von Konsky is gone, we will see him here no more. but we
offer loving testimonial to him in whom all proper elements united and
worked together for the making of a truly great man.

LEONARD GROSS

220

"Some time long after the sun is gone
As we watch the close of day
The sky is bright with a lingering light
Mid the evening shadows gray."
"Long after the beautiful life is gone
To that fair land on high
Our lives are bright with a lingering light
For a true life cannot die."

221

Wednesday. February 25, 1953. was a sad day for California Masonry. for at three o'clock that morning Leonard Gross died in Mission
Hospital, Huntington Park. The services were held in the Little Church
Around the Corner in Inglewood. Past Grand Master Louis Drapeau
officiating. The eulogy was delivered by Myron E. Smith, member of
the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes. Brethren were in attendance from all parts of Southern California and many came from as
far north as San Francisco. The chapel was not large enough to hold
all those who came to pay him tribute.
Leonard Gross was the son of Charles and Emma Gross. Born in
Saint Louis, Missouri. August 28, 1893. he attended grammar and high
schools in that city, later attended business college training for purchasing, production and traffic management. Coming to Los Angeles in 19.23
he became associated with the Southern Glass Company, and later with
the Verno~ Kilns of Vernon. and spent the balance of his life in the employ of that company.
He married Miss Mae Stahl in Saint Louis July 19, 1919. She survives him.
On January 14, 1915, at 22 years of age he petitioned Meridian
Lodge No. 2, Saint Louis, Missouri. Elected February 11, was initiated,
passed and raised and stood his proficiency examination in the Third
Degree October 28 the same year. Meridian Lodge issued him a dimit
June 28, 1928 and he was elected to membership in Jordan Lodge No.
654 of California the following July 3. Appointed Junior Steward of
Jordan Lodge in 1930 he progressed annually until he filled the Master's
Chair in 1937.
His love and steady attachment to the Fraternity came to the attention of Leon 0. Whitsell, Grand Master, and on December 17, 1938 he
was appointed Inspector of District No. 96A. His accomplishments in
that important office were outstanding and on June 27. 1948 Gran.d
Master, Chester H. Warlow, appointed him a Trustee .of the Masonic
Homes of California. October 14, 1949 he was elected Vice President
of the Board and was serving in that office at the time of his death.
At the meeting of the Homes Board March 14. 1953 a resolution was
adopted expressing the deep sense of loss in the passing of Brother
Gross. The resolution was entered upon the Minutes of the Board of
Trustees and a copy properly engrossed was sent to his widow.
Leonard Gross was quiet, modest and retiring. He was taciturn by
nature and tributes to him seem to grow in relation to the closeness of
his associates. Those who knew him best loved him most. Masonry
was close to a religion with him, and in his passing we have lost a great
and good man.

222

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
DR. WILLSIE MANNING MARTIN

Dr. Willsie Martin, clergyman and civic leader, died June 7, 1953
in his 75th year, in New London, Connecticut. Death came while he
and Mrs. Martin were visiting their eldest daughter, Mrs. John M. Ide
of Quaker Hill, Connecticut.
Born in Johnville, Quebec, Canada, Dr. Martin came to California
at the age of eleven. He attended Santa Ana High School and was
graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with the class
of 1900.
In that same year he was ordained to the ministry at Pacific Grove
and joined the California Methodist Conference. After a pastorate at
Oak Park and Sacramento he became assistant pa5tor at First Church
of Oakland. Following a study course at Drake Theological Seminary
he served as assistant pastor at Madison Avenue Methodist Church in
New York City, before he returned to California and married Miss
Muriel Eastman.
Dr. Martin held pastorates at Chico for two years, Alameda for
seven years, Boise, Idaho for seven years, and then at Hollywood First
Methodist Church before taking his post at Wilshire Methodist Church,
serving that organization until his retirement twenty years later.
He was chosen 6.rst president of the' Church Federation of Los Angeles after the reorganization of the Protestant group in 1938, and was
again elected to the post ten years later. He also served as Chairman
of the Los Angeles County C~mmittee for Church and Community
Co-operation.
Each individual is given 24 hours a day by the Great Architect of
the Universe. The multiudinous accomplishments of some with this
allotment of time are beyond the comprehension of most of us. Dr.
Martin was such a man, and in civic affairs his work was outstanding.
He was one of the founders of the Hollywood Bowl Association, serving that group as a director and vice president, and was a director of the
Southern California Symphony Association.
In 1939 he was appointed to the City Board of Park Commissioners,
was elected president of that body in 1945 and re-elected in 1946. In
1947 Governor Warren appointed him to the advisory committee of the
California Centennials Commission.
He was president and a director of the International Institute, a
member of the board of Scripps College, president of the Family Welfare Board, and a member of the Elks, Rotary and Lions clubs.
On many occasions Dr. Martin was called upon to serve on citizens'
committees appointed to deal with community problems, such as the
harbor labor disputes of 1937, and the "zoot suit" riots of 1943.
During World War I he served overseas with the YMCA. and in
World War ll he was a member of the Labor Conciliation Board. Dur-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

223

ing his pastorate at Boise he served as Chaplain of the National Guard
unit there.
His Masonic career is equally impressive. He was initiated in Oak
Grove Lodge No. 215 of Alameda, California, and affiliated with Boise
Lodge No. 2 in Boise, Idaho, on May 5, 1914. Dimitted from Boise
Lodge No. 2 and joined Hollywood Lodge No. 355 of California on
Feburay 3, 1920. He was a member of Hollywood Chapter Royal Arch
Masons, Hollywood, Council Royal and Select Masters and Hollywood
Commandary. He served a term as State Chaplain of the Knights
Templar. In October, 1949 Grand Master Ellsworth Meyer appointed
him Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge of California. His duties
were discharged with distinction and honor.
We mourn the passing of this great and good .man, and on this day
we salute him with our most exalted love.
ALVIN E. MELIM

The Worshipful Alvin E. Melim, Junior Grand Steward of the
Grand Lodge of California, died April 18, 1953 in the City of Honolulu,
Hawaiian Islands.
Alvin, the son of Theodore P. and Mary A. Melim, was born at
Honolulu, Island of Oahu, July 27, 1899. He received his education in
the public schools of that city, graduating from Mt:Kinley High School.
He later attended Merkins Business College, San Francisco, California.
His entire business career was connected with Adjusters Ltd. He
was president and general manager of the company at the time of his
death.
Brother Melim was enthusiastically patriotic. In World War I he
became a member of the United States Engineer Corps. In World War
ll, in addition to serving as a Block Warden, he organized. trained and
assisted in equipping an emergency ambulance crew to serve in case of
~ttack on the civilian population. He was deeply interested in veterans'
8ffairs, and in the Veterans of Foreign Wars he filled the office of Commander of his Post, Commander of his Department, and at the time of
his passing was Adjutant Service Officer.
Alvin Melim entered Masonry in 1927, being initiated in Justice
Lodge No. 549 in San Francisco; December 14, 1942 he affiliated with
Honolulu Lodge No. 409, and seven years later was elected and installed
its Master.
His Masonic interest extended to other bodies and he was a member
of Honolulu Chapter No. 1 Royal Arch Masons, Honolulu Council No.
1 Royal and Select Masters, the Scottish Rite Bodies of the Valley of
Honolulu, Aloha Temple, Ancient Arabic Order of Nobles of the
Mystic Shrine, and a Past Patron of Leilani Chapter Order of Eastern
Star.

224

PROCEEDING S OF THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The ardor and enthusiasm which he had shown in other activities
soon manifested itself in Masonry, and in recognition of his contribution
to the Craft, Grand Master Arthur Warren, in October 1952 appointed
him an officer of the Grand Lodge of California.
On July 22, 1922 Alvin was married to Miss Evelyn C. Correiro.
He is survived by his widow. his only son, Robert D. Melim. and two
grandchildre n.
To our brethren in the Islands we extend our deepest sympathy in
their grievous loss.
WILLIAM L. DAVIS

When the Supreme Being in his infinite wisdom saw fit to call Bill
Davis to his heavenly home on October 9, 1952, He removed from our
midst not only a brother but a man who had witnessed and also made
much of the history of the community in which he lived.
Bill Davis was b<nn in Azusa, California, March 12, 1874. Whe;
22 years of age he moved to Owens Valley and for some years there~
after drove the stage from Mojave to Darwin. As stage driver he had
intimate contact with many of the men whose exploits in the Death
Valley area are now the history and legends of that fascinating n~tional
monument. Later, as a mule skinner and cow puncher, he experienced
the thrills and excitement which now hold the attention of the young
through the medium of motion pictures, radio and television.
In 1908 Bill moved to Big Pine, married Mary Albers of Manzanar.
built the home in which they lived until his death. He was a carpenter
and builder and did contract work in Owens Valley, Bakersfield and
Miami, Arizona.
His Masonic career began in Waucoba Lodge No. 413 at Big Pine,
where he was initiated October 30, 1910, passed November 5, and raised
November 12, the same year. He served three terms as Master of the
Lodge, 1924. 1925 and 1932. This lodge surrendered its charte~ in 194_5
and consolidated with Inyo Lodge at Independen ce. In 1934 Bill Davis
was appointed Inspector of the then 60th Masoni~ District by Gran_d
Master Gist and served until April 1952, when ill health forced his
resignation.
He was instrumenta l in the formation of Trona Lodge No. 684. The
only building available was an old pump house at Valley Wells. some
five miles from the town. With other members of the Craft he gave
much of his time, knowledge and resources, to the conversion of this old
building into a suitable lodge room. Bill affiliated with Trona Lodge
May 18, 1944, and demitted to Alta Lodge No. 333 at Bridgeport F~b~
ruary 14, 1945. Much credit is also due him for the formation of Indian
Wells Valley Lodge No. 691 at Ridgecrest.
Bill is survived by ·his wife and two children; a son. Albert S. Davis

225

of June Lake, a member and Past Master of Alta Lodge No. 333, and a
daughter, Mrs. Vada E. Buck of Bishop.
· Brother Bill Davis was one of the few remaining links between the
old and the new West, a loyal citizen and a conscientious Mason. We
leave him in the hands of our Heavenly Father, firm in the belief that
his rewards will be many.
HARRY STANLEY CLARK

The faithful and loyal attachment for our Fraternity by so many men
in high position is a never ending mystery to the profane. Those of us
fortunate enough to be selected for office understand and deeply appre~
date our good fortune. We grieve when a good and efficient brother is
removed from our midst. Such a man was Harry Stanley Clark of San
Diego who died of a heart attack at the corner of State and Cedar
Streets, that city, December 26, 1951.
Born in Spring Valley May 16, 1891, a third generation Californian,
he was educated in the public schools of San Diego. After graduation
from Russ High School, new San Diego High School, he attended the
University of California. He was a past president of the South Border
District of the University of California Alumni Association. Also Past
Commander of the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars
Posts. He was connected with the City Attorney's office for more than
25 years.
On November 1, 1919 Brother Clark petitioned Coronado Lodge
No. 441. Raised January 22. 1920 he was appointed a line officer in
1921, and filled the Oriental Chair in 1925. A member of numerous
Masonic organization s he was appointed Inspector in 1932, and filled
that office for 20 years, being Inspector of District No. 644 at the time
of his death.
Harry Clark is survived by his widow, Maxine, three sons, Monroe
Clark of San Diego, Harry S. Clark, Jr. of Oak Ridge, Oregon, Donald
L. Clark, United States Army, stationed at Fort Lee, Virginia, and a
brother, Charles T. Clark of Los Angeles.
Harry Clark was a model citizen and a true friend; honest and sincere
in his dealings with all men; unostentatious, charitable, always looking
for the good and not the evil in men. He is sorely missed by this Grand
Lodge.
CHARLES E. MOORE

That death is no respecter of persons was clearly demonstrate d on
the night of June 19, 1953 near La Honda when Charles E. Moore,
prominent San Francisco industrialist and Masonic leader died of a
heart attack while on a trial ride with the San Mateo County Sheriff's
posse. Brother Moore was 59 years of age.
Head of a socially prominent San Francisco family. he was a member

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the Bohemian Club, and president of the Moore Machinery Company.
He also headed the Moore Industrial Company, and was formerly
president of the Joshua Hendy Iron Works, which he sold to the California Shipbuilding Corporation in 1945.
Highly active in business circles he was ever willing and anxious to
give of his time and services to the Federal Government, and in 1941
participated in a government mission to Moscow regarding trade in
machine tools. He figured prominently in Federal Government activities
during World War II and in 1946 was Chief of the ECA in Italy.
His activities in Masonry covered a wide field and he rendered valuable service as Master of Ingleside Lodge No. 630, and as a member
of the Committee on the Memorial Temple. At the time of his death
he. was on the Investment Committee of the Endowment Board.
Brother Moore is survived by his widow, Ann Whittier Moore, two
daughters, Mrs. Elizabeth M. Dostal and Mrs. Mary Ann Hayes, and
two sons, John Moore and Charles E. Moore Jr.
Charles E. Moore was a gentleman, a faithful friend, a loving husband and father, a true and zealous Mason. As such he lived and as
such his memory will be cherished in the hearts of his family, his associates, his friends and his brethren.

Commandery No. 16 Knights Templar, a Past Commander of the Grand
Commandery of California, a member of the Order of the Red Cross of
Constantine and Islam Temple of the Shrine.
General Mathewson is survived by his wife, Katherine; a son,
H. Lewis Mathewson, and a daughter, Mrs. J. Hugh Brenton. Services
were conducted by Argonne Lodge and interment was in Woodlawn
Memorial Park.
Brother Mathewson was a man of exemplary character, possessed
great human understanding. He has filled positions of great responsibility and in them all he served with efficiency, dignity and integrity.
Not only our Fraternity but California has suffered a grievous loss in
his passing.

HENRY GEORGE MATHEWSON

March 21, 1953 at Letterman Army Hospital death claimed Brigadier
General Henry G. Mathewson, in his 77th year.
Born in Gilroy, California, iµ 1876, he moved to the Bay Area and
was a long-time resident of 869 Walnut Street, Alameda.
For more than twenty years General Mathewson was secretary of
the California Railroad Commission. He was a past president of the
Lincoln Gramm~r School Association, and a member of Alumni Association of the University of California.
A soldier by nature he enlisted in the California National Guard in
1896 and gained rapid promotion attaining the rank of Colonel in the
Coast Artillery, and with his unit served in World War I. He was promoted to Brigadier General by Governor Culbert L. Olson in 1939.
Things of patriotic and military importance claimed his interest and
he became a national first vice president of the Sons of the American
Revolution; a founder of the San Francisco post of the American Legion:
Society of American Legion Founders, Barnet Camp No. 29 U.S.W.V.
Freemasonry exerted a strong influence upon him from his first entrance into the lodge room. For the balance of his life he gav~ bounteously of his time and substance to further its interests. He was one of
the founders of Argonne Lodge No. 514, was its first Senior Warden
and its second Master. His other Masonic affiliations were the Scottish
Rite, Golden State Chapter No. 121 Royal Arch Masons, California
Council Royal and Select Masters, a Past Comma.nder of Golden Gate

227

Few men have given more to an organization than have our departed
brethren given to Freemasonry. Their experience in this world gave
them a broadminded understanding of the motivations of men; their
contact with the realities of life and its vicissitudes gave exceptional
,
value to their practical and sensible council and judgment.
Our brethren are safe in our Father's House and there wait patiently
for our coming. They are surrounded by God's love, and if they could
speak to us now they would in all probability tell us to look for love
here. The poet Robert has said:
"I find love everywhere;
.If I cast out a hateful mood
A selffish thought, and look for good,
I find love there.
"I find love everywhere;
If I, in humble grace, but seek
The truthful. the lowly meek,
I find love there.
"I find love everywhere:
If I hut lift my eyes above,
Seek not for self, but watch for love,
I find love there."
RovC.BRYAN
Ross K. ROPER
FRANK EVERETT
FELIX P. LAssALE
HOMERE. RATHBUN

228

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EULOGY
}AMES THOMAS FRASER
By LEON 0. WHITSELL, Past Grand Master
}AMES THOMAS FRASER was born in Caledon ia, Nova Scotia,
Canada , August 28, 1868, and at the age of 17 he left t~e family home
and came to the United States, locating in Minnes ota. His first.e~pl_oy~
ment was as a teamste r in the woods and log driving on the Mississi~pi
River. After three years he came to Californ ia and was employed during
the summer months in the Redwoo ds and in the winter. seasons he perfected himself in the Boiler Makers trade in the Landfo rd Brother s
Boiler Works.
I 1896 and 1897 he had charge of the pump station of the Eureka
Wat~r Works for the Ricks Water Company. He was elected Justice
of the Peace of the Eureka Townsh ip in 1914 and held that office for
16 years. He had been reading law for some time, wa_s a_dmitted to the
Bar in 1917 and continu ed to practice law the rest of his. life-_ He served
on the Eureka School Board and for many years was Preside nt of the
Board. He was District Attorne y from 1930 to 1938.
On July 31, 1896 he married Dora Zerlan~ and from this union
there survive d him three children, five grandch ildren and eight great
grandch ildren.
Brother Fraser was a member of Sequoia Lodge No. 14 IOOF,
Past Master of Humbo ldt Lodge 79 F. & A. M., Inspect or from 1919
to 1931 Grand Orator in 1932, and Grand Master in 1937. He was
lso Pa~t Grand Master and Honora ry Suprem e Grand Master of Loyal
~range Institut e of California. He served as High Priest _of Royal Arch
Masons , Toparc h of Eureka Pyrami d No. 20 of the Sciots, Patron of
Camillia Chapte r No. 63 Order of Eastern Star. Membe r of the Honorary Legion of Honor of the Order of De Molay, and a member of
Aahme s Temple of the Sh1;ine. He was also a Past Comma nder of
Eureka Comma ndery No. 35, Knights Templa r.
"T " Fraser was a rare charact er, possessing those sturdy qualities w~~h drew men unto him and he numbere_d among his _best friends
many of Califor nia's leading citizens, both ins1d~ and outside t_he Fra·t
He was· honest to a fault and as District Attorne y display ed
t erni y.
.
. h" h"
a fine sense of Justice toward those accuse d o f crime
wit m 1s cou~ ty ·
He sustaine d the reputati on of never prosecuting one accused of cri~e
unless he was firmly convinced of the guilt of the defenda nt and his
convictions therefor e rated among the highest in percent age of the
prosecuting officers in the United States.
.
.
He was faithful to his old friends and those needing assistan~e
never appeale d to Tom in vain. It was hard for him to keep money in
his pocket when those less fortuna te than himself were in want. It was
impossible for him to see poverty and misery and not render some

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

229

assistance. On one noted occasion he found a family despera tely in
need of warm bedding. The small children of this family were sleeping
under ripped- open burlap potato sacks. He deplete d his own house
of all surplus bedding and clothing that this family might be helped.
Tom Fraser loved the Fratern ity and on every occasion would
extoll its precepts and principles and continu ed to warn against the
creeping Red Menace . He was only an adopted son of our great nation
and the Golden State, but if more of our native citizens had his vision
and courage to speak up, our represe ntatives in Govern ment would
take heed and our Govern ment would be cleaner and stronge r with
each generat ion.
I had learned to love Tom Fraser long before he became promine nt
in Grand Lodge affairs and I made Eureka my first port of call on my
yearly trip along the Redwoo d Highwa y. It was a real pleasure to
visit with this Brother whose proudes t boast was that he was a self made
man. When relating his years of strenuo us physical labor before entering the legal profession, Tom maintai ned that those years had admirab ly
equippe d him with a strong body and a will and determination to overcome all obstacles.
He was a superb story teller and had a delightf ul sense of humor
and seemed to enjoy a good joke on himself as much as a joke on others.
Tom Fraser lived a full life-a life of loving service to his family,
to his friends, his Fratern ity, and to humanity: and when this tall Redwood of the North fell, "He left a vacant place against the sky."

EULOGY
ARTHUR WILLIAM BROUILLET
By LESLIE E. Wooo, Past Grand Master
A long and active career in Californ ia Masonr y ended late in the
afterno on of September 18, 1953, when ARTHUR BROUILLET, Past Grand
Master, died shortly after arriving at his home, 71 Ralston Avenue ,
Atherto n, from his office in San Francisco.
Arthur was an outstan ding example of what can be accomplished
by determination, application and native ability under the free competitive system existing in the country .
.
Born in St. Anne, Illinois, January 21, 1884, of French- Canadi an
parents , he went to Chicago at the age of twelve, found employment in
a shoe store and support ed himself while attendin g the element ary
public schools of that city. By the time he was ninetee n years of age,
he decided to go back to school and graduat ed from high school at the
age of twenty- four. He was undecid ed as to what business career to
follow, when by chance he visited Court and heard the famous lawyer,
Clarenc e Darrow . The experience made a deep impression upon him,
and he decided upon the practice of law, and in 1908 he moved to Cali·
fornia that he might attend the Univers ity of Californ ia in Berkeley.

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

es he again work ed
To maintain himself while pursu ing his studi
ge of Law in 1911,
Colle
as a shoe clerk. He grad uated from Hast ings
continuously since.
cisco
Fran
and has pract iced his profession in San
in the problems of.
As a shoe clerk he became deep ly inter ested
labor movements of
labor and became affiliated with other orga nized
leaders. He became
the City and State . He beca me one of its great d the San Fran cisco·
sente
Presi dent of the Shoe Clerk s' Unio n and repre
the 1915 session of the
g
durin
t
Agen
e
slativ
Legi
as
cil
Coun
Labor
San Fran cisco Labor
the
of
dent
Calif ornia Legislature. He was Presi
narcotics, and in 1916.. 17
Council in 1917. He abho red the illegal use of
State Boar d of Phar macy
was Prose cutin g Atto rney for the Calif ornia
enfor cing narcotic .laws .
which draft ed the new
In the election for the Boar d of Free hold ers,
the tihrd large st vote
ved
recei
he
~barter for San Fran cisco in 1930,
and final submission
ons
erati
delib
the
and acted as Secr etary durin g
member of the Calif ornia
for adop tion and ratification. He was also a
Commission on Unif orm State Laws, 1937..41,
was Vice Presi dent,
At the time of his death ARTHUR BROUILLET
; Depu ty Inhe rit..
cisco
Fran
Civic League of Improvement Club s of San
Mem ber of the
ict);
Distr
thern
(Nor
ance Tax Atto rney of Calif ornia
cisco; Alli ..
Fran
San
of
ety
Soci
ation
Educ
Executive Committee, Public
the Red..
Save
Francisco;
ance Fran caise ; LaFa yette Club No. 1, San
datio n;
Foun
te
Esta
e
Hum
woods League: Boar d of Trus tees, Mar y A.
tific
scien
rous
nume
also
American, State , and Local Bar Associations,
civic organ izatio ns.
other activities was
The same inten se inter est mani feste d in his
initiated May 26, 1916,
evide nt on his admission to Maso nry. He was
Park Lodge, No. 449, in
passe d June M, and raise d June 21, 1916, in
Lodge in 1924. Elec ted
San Francisco. He serve d as Mast er of Park
gave it loyal and splen..
he
,
Presi dent, Past Mast ers' Association in 1933
d of Relief of San
Boar
nic
Maso
did service. He was a member of the
Francisco.
ent and Acce pted
Arth ur was an enthu siast ic work er in the Anci
as Chancellor, Calif ornia
Scot tish Rite of Free maso nry, filling a term
Lodg e of Perfection,
ornia
Council of Kada sh; Vene rable Mast er, Calif
great contr ibuti on
his
and
onry
1929. His zeal and devotion for Mas
eme Council at
Supr
the
of
on
obati
to civic matt ers earn ed the appr
hono red with the Thir ty..
Was hing ton, and on Janu ary 13, 1934, he was
ple, Anci ent Arab ic Orde r
third Degree. He was a member of Islam Tem
of Nobl es of the Myst ic Shrin e.
the Gran d Lodg e of
As a member of the Griev ance Committee of
responsibilities with
his
arged
disch
Calif ornia from 1931 to 1943, he
Frate rnity . In the
the
of
on
facti
satis
the
to
grea t credit to himself and
den; Senio r Gran d War..
·latte r year he was elected Junio r Gran d War

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

231

eded to Gran d .Master,
den, 1944: Depu ty Gran d Mast er, 1945, and succe
ter Kelley.
Octo ber 24, 1945, on the death of Gran d Mas
ons; a crusa der in the
Arth~r Brouillet was ·a man of stron g opini
he considered down ..
whom
those
of
pion
.Beld of righteousness; a cham
nity was deep. Not only
trodd en and oppr essed . His love for huma
have lost a champion.
we of the craft , but the people of California,
and mercy will keep him in his
.We ask th~t God in his goodness
.
loving care until we shall meet again

EUL OGY
Ro BERT BRAINERD GAYLORD
By ARTHURS. CRITES, Past Gran d Mast er
er! His name was
~OBERT BRAINERD GAYLORD, Past Gran d isMast
us no more. He is
with
He
day.
not included in the Roll Call on Mon
truth , giving an acco unt
up ':her e the good Ange l write s in the book of
the answ er will be:
~f his stew ardsh ip here on earth. We know whatEnte
r Thou into the
Well done, Thou Good and Faith ful Serv ant;
."
Joy of Thy Lord
and devo ted member, the
Th~s Gran d Jurisdiction has lost a faithfulexem
plary citizen and his
bar a. Just and able advo cate, the state an
d.
frien
loyal
most
a
acquaintances and assoc iates
--W e miss you.
w_e ~hall long cheri sh his memory. Yes Bob
, his integ rity was
. His life was alwa.ys live.cl on a very high plane that were laid on
lities
nsibi
respo
all
to
ty
u?1mpeachable and his fideli
was with out a shad ow of cant or
his sho.ulders wAs most faithful. He ng.
_
deali
le
hypo cnsy , or scheming or doub
ns here on earth and
Whi le he ~e~ognized the frailities of us huma
for our shortcomings, yet
was alwa ys w1llmg _to make due allowance
associate who was failing to live up to
"".hen he fou~d a. friend or an him.
hurt
ously
high purpose 1t griev
an all wise providence
. Bob be_lieved prof~undly in the rulings of
nized the hand of a
recog
simple faith
ID th~ affa1rs of man, and with
ver in the churc h
belie
firm
a
was
merciful Fath er in his own life. He
pray er. He was
of
cy
effica
the
in
also
,
and the grea t good it was doing
First Bapt ist Chur ch of
a member of and faithfully atten ded the
Oakl and.
onsin , on Novem ..
Robe rt B. Gayl ord was born in River Falls , Wisc ts when a boy.
his paren
her 24, 1876. He came to San Fran cisco with
subs eque ntly went to
and
Jose
San
in
ls
schoo
c
publi
He a.ttended the
the degre e of LLD .
w~th
from there
~astmgs Coll~ge of Law, grad uatin g busin
Fran cisco and was
San
in
ess
pan grad uatin g he enter ed the law
nued his prac..
conti
He
bar.
the
at
cate
s~on recognized as an able advo
tice until the time of his death .

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

He had an unusual ability for clear and concise statement and was
an able speaker on any forum.
On July 7, 1901. he was married to Harriet Brown Lumley. The
union was blessed with two children, a daughter Rachel, now Rachel
Pursel living in Berkeley, and a son Robert B. Jr., who lives in Oakland
and was associated with his father in his law practice. There are three
grandchildren-Linda, Anne and Susan Gaylord. His wife Harriet
survives him.
His Masonic career was long and honorable.
He was raised a Master Mason in Oakland Lodge No. 188 and
served his lodge as Worshipful Master in 1906.
He served the Grand Lodge of California as Grand Orator in 1917
and again in 1925.
He was Chairman of the Grand Lodge Committee on Grievances in
1924; was elected Junior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of California at its annual communication in 1928 and was elected Grand
Master of Masons of California in 1931. He devoted the entire year
to the duties and responsibilities of his office. It was due to his ruling
that the law was placed on our statute books forbidding the use of
lotteries or gambling devices for the raising of funds by any Maso?ic
organization. He also presented the resolution which brought into being
Constitution Month Observance as a policy of Grand Lodge.
After retiring as Grand Master he was appointed on the Jurisprudence Committee and continued to serve until 1949.
He was a member ofOakland Chapter No. 36, Royal Arch Masons
Oakland Council No. 12, Royal and Select Masters
Oakland Commandery No. 11, Knights Templar
and served as its Eminent Commander in 1913, and as Right Eminent
Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery of Knights Templar of
California in 1929.
He was a member of Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies, having received
the Thirty-second Degree, Master of the Royal Secret, on June 14, 1909,
and was elected Knight Commander of the Court of Honour, October
22, 1929, and was coroneted a Thirty-third Degree Inspector General
Honorary, on January 19, 1952.
He was a member of Islam Temple, Nobles of the Mystic Shrine,
of San Francisco, and also San Francisco Court No. 4, Royal Order of
Jesters.
Bob was also a member of Saint Philip Conclave No. 23 of
Oakland, of the Order of Red Cross of Constantine and served as
Sovereign in 1929.
He was appointed Grand Standard Bearer of the c;;rand ~ncampme.nt
of Knights Templar of the United States of Amenca at its Tr1enmal
Encampment in San Francisco in 1934.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

233

He continued by regular progression through the Grand Official
Line and was elected and installed as Most Eminent Grand Master of
the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar on September 23, 1949.
He displayed his great fidelity to every trust by faithfully performing all the duties and responsibilities that the position entailed.
It was noticeable that these heavy responsibilities were drafting upon
his physical well being. Many times he expressed the hope that he would
be permitted to carry through until the end. This wish was granted
him and he presided, with ability and distinction, at the Triennial
Encampment in New Orleans in September 1952. After the session
was over he often expressed profound gratitude that he had been given
his wish and had been allowed to preside, with all his faculties intact,
at the Triennial Session.
Shortly after retiring as Grand Master it was noticed that his health
commenced to fail. He began the long journey from which no traveler
ever returns on August 4 of this year. His friends paid their final
respects to him on August 6, 1953 at the Chapel of the Chimes in
Oakland. The tribute was most fitting. The floral offerings were exceptionally beautiful.
The Masonic funeral ceremony was used and was impressively
performed by William H. Owens, a Past Master of his own Lodge. His
final resting place is in Mount View Cemetery in Oakland.
This is a brief story of the life of Robert B. Gaylord, a faithful and
devoted Mason, an eminent member of the bar, an exemplary citizen
and a good an~ noble man. The World is the better that he has passed
by this way.

EULOGY
WILL H. FISCHER

By CLAUDE H. MORRISON, Past Grand Master
The death of Will H. Fischer on October 4, 1953 came as a distinct
shock. The fifth of our Past Grand Masters to leave us during this
year, his passing on the eve of our Annual Communication when he was
expected to assume his duties as Chairman of the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes makes it hard for us to realize that he will be with
us no more. Funeral services were held October 7, a week ago today,
in the Scottish Rite Cathedral in Los Angeles. They were conducted
by Wilshire Lodge No. 445 together with Rev. Dr. George Davidson,
who had served Brother Fischer as Grand Chaplain.
Will H. Fischer, our sixty-first Grand Master, was born in Yolo
County, California, on September 11, 1875. At that time his father was
a farmer. Later the family moved to Woodland and the father, Peter
Fischer, became Justice of the Peace.
He was educated in the public schools of Woodland and received

GRAND LODGE OP <fALIPORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

234

h"s secondary education at Hesperian College in Woodland. On gra~u­
a~ion he became a newspaper reporter on small town newspapers PC~n­
cipally in Woodland and San Luis Obispo. Later he served as ity
Editor on Metropolitan newspapers in Spokane, Los Angeles .an;_San
Francisco. At one time he was managing editor on the Humboldt 1mes
at Eureka. He had been appointed Managing Editor ~f the San F~an­
cisco Daily News at the time of the earthquake and fire m San Francisco.
and then as an
H e served a S Cl·ty Editor of the Los Angeles . Record
· h" h
d
editorial writer of the Los Angeles Express-Tribune, w 1c was owne
by E. T. Earle.
k
d
t · t
In the spring of 1915 he gave up newspaper_ war. an wen m o
t
k with the Taxpayers Association of Cahfom1a, a pred~cessor
0
~\:e ~resent California Taxpayers Association_. ~pan the rebr~menJ
(Herbert W. Clark as manager of that association, he was s~ ecte
0
·s capacity he became recognized as an authority not
as manage r · In thl
I 1921 he
1 on taxation but on various phases of government. _n
•
on y t d to the Legislature a complete analysis of the functions auth~r­
r::Je~/ the laws of California, accompanying it with a ~om~rehensive
Ian for a reorganization of the state g~vernment. While it was not
~cce ted at that time, his plan later came mto general us~. He was also
the ~uthor of the constitutional amendment sponsored i~f 19~2 ~ydth~
Commonwealth Club of California and known as the Cah orma u ge

0

lt f his tax work the Southern California Edison Company
invite~ ah~=~o ~ccept a position as head of its ~ublic ~elations pepartd
ment and a few years later he was elected a Vice President an serve
as such until he retired in 1947.
S
ff d ties with the Edison Company took him frequent1y to acrais ~ th
he formed acquaintanceships and friendships with the

LawA

;:1:;:~:::~1:t~e~~~~1~ ~~~e;;~::~iyatu:~~ht~;~:;h~i:;n~;i:t~~~~
He was married January 1. 1898 to Jeannette Parrott, who survives
him.
a member (the Occidental Chapter) of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
HI e wFa:aternity the Los Angeles Athletic Club, and the Lincoln Club.
C oI ege
•
1909 h" S
d Degree
He received his First Degree on February 9,
• .;) econ f M ter
0
on February 16, 1909 and was Raised to the Sublime egree E aska
Mason on February 25, 1909 in Humboldt Lodge No. 79 at ure '
California.
·
·
1
E
ka
He became a Royal Arch Mason and a Knight Temp ar ~t ure.
in 1914. Soon thereafter he moved to Los Angeles and afBhated with
the bodies in that city.
·
d b
He was one of the organizers of Wilshire Lodge No. 445 an . ed
"t fi t Master in 1914 In the following year he was appomte
came is rs
·
· h
an Inspector and served in that position for eig t years.

235

In 1922 he served as Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge.
He received his 32nd Degree on November 27, 1920 in the Los
Angeles Bodies of the Scottish Rite and in 1949 received the rank and
decoration of a Knight Commander of the Court of Honor.
In 1924 he was elected Junior Grand Warden and in 1927 was
elected and installed Grand Master of Masons in California.
At Coloma, June 2 and 3, 1928, during his year as Grand Master,
he sponsored a great historical observance at the site of Marshall's
Mill where gold was discovered January 19, 1848. A vast concourse
of Masons from all parts of California gathered there to honor the 75th
anniversary of all lodges chartered in 1853. The program of the observ..
ance was based upon the influence of pioneer Masons preceding statehood, the events and customs of the days of the gold rush, the establishment of the early lodges, and of the Grand Lodge. It was followed by
special observances at San Diego, Sacramento, Grass Valley, Mariposa
and Fresno, together with a dedicatory service at the vault in which
was stored the records of Western Star Lodge No. 2 in the old lodge
buildings at Shasta City.
It was upon his recommendation that Grand Lodge adopted the
beautiful custom of presenting 50 year Masons with buttons made from
native gold from the hills of California.
Another activity of his year as Grand Master, and to which he
applied his energy was the financing of the Masonic Clubhouse for
students at the University of California at Los Angeles. Every year
the use and appreciation by hundreds of stud~nts of this beautiful
edifice are testiiil.ony to his wisdom and leadership.
In these brief phrases, we review the events and accomplishments
of a lifetime of seventy-eight years. But the real Will Fischer cannot
be described in words and phrases. Probably his many friends will
remember him for many different things. Those of us who served with
him on the Committee on Policy and General Purposes will remember
him as a man of common sense, always seeking to preserve the basic
character of Masonry. The older members of Grand Lodge will remember him as one who was always master of the situation.
There were many times when a quick quip or a witty anecdote from
him relieved what might have otherwise developed into a tense situation
in our sessions. Those who were younger Masons will remember his
kindliness and thoughtfulness to those who were less experienced, and
many will remember his patriotism and his genuine concern for the
welfare of his country. And these memories will keep the kindly spirit
and the winning personality of Will Fischer alive through many future
Communications of our Grand Lodge. May the faith that is in all of
us sustain us and may our pride in Masonry rise high as we record the
passing of this kind friend and wise leader.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

236

EULO GY
WILLIA M RHODES HERVEY

.
By Ellswor th Meyer. Past Grand Master
It may be coincidence that our Grand Organist·t~ose f~r ~~~~r~:~

Id
solo at this point Bamby 's score for those beauti u wor s k
f Alf d Lord Tennys on but he of whom we shall spea wou
red He would wish for no sadness of farewell when he empen o
f h b "but such a tide as moving seems asleep,
have approve . .
G nd Master Hervey did bet e ~:·
o
g
moanin
no
barked,

~~~:~~af:~:o;::l~~~:~~:Pil~tn~~ea~~ f::e when he had crossed the

th~n t~e hih~ic~l

bar.The career of which we shall speak cove<ed mo'e
three score and ten for it began on March 26, 1870 and c os\eo~aid\~f
.
1 1953 just short of eighty- three years later. It may
o
service
the
in
spent
~:?be~n a g~odly span of years and years well
b t as
T
goodly causes.
Rhodes Hervey was born in Somerville, ennessee, .u ~
. .
He received his

r~~~h~:~er~ti~
collegiat~ trai~ing
0
1

rais~1i~1~~kansas.

~!h~:::~:;sw:~da:!~t~~wb;c:~:lp~! ~:~aUK°.:;;: ~y which h~ u~ually
du
C l"£ ·
·
wore.
lat~
~ast:;a
or~ia
aA1
tLoo
as
Arkans
from
family
his
The transitio n of
f
s nge es in
with vacati ons in and around
I b
until they effected a transfer o
h
I
al. t egan
ed from law school and
eig~dties
• w~::f e~::~es y::: graduat
y 8g9r4ew
res1 encewbhichl
came west to practice law.
He was a lawyer, jurist .arid banker as-~~~ : t~ef~~e:i~r le:~~~:
1911
F
191
After fourteen years of practice he was ap~in
rom
·
January
until
served
and
1908
in
ty
I
institufve
Los Ange es coun
1 officer of certain financial
l
an execu -becam e the Securit y-First Nationa
a~
until 1930, hhebyserve
.
I
successive mergers
h'
.
aw m
Angeles . Everi after his return to the practice
";
as to
advise
and
estates
trust
us
numero
handle
d
.
an o
boards of directors, as vice-presit
1930, he continu e to
investmen~s. He serve~ on sev~nhee~oard of the State Mutual ·Buildina.g
dent. preside nt ~n~ cha1~man t~ ~ e t committee of the Bank of Americ
. w'de demand and his
rus I
and Loan Assoc1at1on an on e was
a ways in i
His advice on financial matters
d
opinions were highly respected.
an
h he
. t o Europe • the near east
In his time he made numerous t rips
en .
w
year,
last
as
recent
as
was
which
of
last
the
world
th
d
some
spent
and
~~~~:d th: Medi~erranean and Scandinavian coasts
k · 1907 and
.
weeks in Englan d.
e in
Clar
ng
Browni
with
e
marriag
in
He was first united

t

d

~on~

~s

~f

237

that marriag e was blessed by a son, William Rhodes Hervey , Junior.
After the death of Mrs. Hervey he was wed to Debora h Lyman, who
survives hiiil, as do his son and two adopted sons, Harcou rt and Edward .
His notable Masoni c career has not been surpass ed by any Califor nian in length and breadth . It began when he was raised in Pentalp ha
Lodge No. 202 in 1895 and was continu ed by the degrees of Royal Arch
Masonr y in 1899, those of the Scottish Rite in 1900 and of Templa rism
in 1901.
His service as an officer began the year following his raising when
he was appoint ed Senior Steward : in 1897 he was appoint ed Senior
Deacon, elected Junior Warden in 1898 and Master in 1899. He again
served Pentalp ha Lodge as Master in 1909. Of the flfty-eight years of
his Masoni c life he served as an officer in some Masoni c body for flftyseven years, because that which started in 1896 continued until that "one
.
clear call" which caused him "to put out to sea."
as
It was in 1902 that he began his long service to this grand lodge,
chairma n of the Committee on Returns . In the Scottish Rite he was
elected Chance llor of the Consist ory in Los Angeles, an office he retained, for sentime ntal reasons, until 1943. In 1903 he was elected
Comma nder of the Council of Kadosh and occupied that office for the
ensuing ten years. In 1904 he was elected Venera ble Master and was
reelected annuall y for the next thirty-n ine years. He served as the second Comma nder of Golden West Commandery, Knights Templa r. In
1907 he assisted in the formation of San Gabriel Conclav e of the Red
Cross of Constan tine and was its Soverei gn during the first seven years.
He became an .officer of Al Malaika h Temple , Nobles of the Mystic
Shrine, in 1909 and continu ed on its divan until his passing.
Rhodes was appoint ed Grand Orator in 1913, elected Junior Grand
Warden in 1914 and regular ly advance d thereaft er to Grand Master in
1917, in which capaci ty he served during Americ an particip ation in
World War I. He was appoint ed a member of our Committee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s in 1919, became its chairma n in 1921 and
continued in that position thereaft er. As Grand Master he had recommended the formation of that committee. Among numerous other assignments he had served as chairman of the Masoni c Homes Endowm ent
Board, as the first chairma n of the Commi ttee on Centenn ial Arrang ements and of the Committee on the Memor ial Building.
Election and appoint ment to the numerous offices and places he
graced are more honors than we usually confer upon a brother , but
those enumer ated do not tell the full story. His completion of the degrees in the Ancien t and Accepte d Scottish Rite was followed by his
election in 1903 to receive the rank and decoration of Knight Comma nder of the Court of Honor. He was corone ted with the Thirty- third
Degree in 1906 and received the Grand Cross of the Court of Honor
e
in 1935. In 1943 he was crowne d the active member of the Suprem

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the ardu ous duties of that post in
Council from Cali forn ia and took up
diction.
the larg est orient in the sout hern juris
hon ors wer e so numerous that
and
ents
His Masonic offices, assignm
enu mer ate them with out paus ing to
it has been nece ssar y merely to
d man ner in whi ch he filled and
comment upon the capable, distinguishe
e, however, that he repr esen ted
carr ied them. Men tion shou ld be mad
Gra nd Lod ge of Sco tlan d duri ng
this bod y at the bicentennial of the
g Geo rge VI of Eng land , was
which the Duk e of Yor k, late r Kin
he was agai n in atte nda nce a few
inst alle d as Gra nd Mas ter and that
his brot her as the Gra nd Mas ter
year s late r whe n the King installed
.
of the Uni ted Gra nd Lodge of Eng land
eles are inde bted to him for
The Scottish Rite bodies in Los Ang
ple in 1906 and the insp ired
tem
ent
leadership in the erection of thei r pres
1904 to 1943, whe n he became
stew ards hip of thei r man y activities from
the active member from this orient.
our ann ual communications of
His voice was a familiar one duri ng
ght him to the rost rum at each.
the past forty year s, for his duties brou
onic affairs in othe r land s and his
· Ofte n he spoke info rma lly abou t Mas
d to deli ght his listeners.
informality and goo d hum or neve r faile
r to erec t in thes e few moIt has not been our purp ose to end eavo
t monument long since has been
ments a monument to his memory. Tha
of this jurisdiction, bey ond our
builded in the hear ts of his bret hren
er it has been our purp ose merely
bord ers and even acro ss the seas; rath
ed upo n the monument of his
to note some of the insc ript ion s carv
Mas onic career.
s will be man ned by othe rs
As with all who pass this way , his post
pied in the hear ts of thos e who
who come afte r, but the place he occu
knew him best is eter nall y his.
, unu sual ly lear ned in thin gs
He was scholarly, a wor ld traveller
mischievously risque on occasion,
Mas onic , a deli ghtf ul speaker, witt y,
the high purp oses and possibut alw ays keeping before his listeners
bilities of Free mas onry .
king of his brea dth of mind,
In thes e moments his associates are thin
or and that twinkle in his eye.
his nev er failing cou rtes y and good hum
gs of life, no man ever said that
Pos sess or of a goo dly shar e of the thin
the richer. Gen erou s to thos e in
he was the poo rer beca use Rho des was
the gift of himself and that gift
need of assistance, his grea test gift was
hren and friends.
is grat eful ly remembered by his bret
twil ight and evening bell" and
Yes, it is "sun set and evening star ,
out to sea. We who stan d upo n
Wil liam Rho des Her vey has slipped
own way , as the twil ight bugle
this shor e thin k of him, each in his
soun ds its final notes.

GRAND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

T LOD GES
PAS T MAS TER S OF CON STIT UEN
Tuo lumn e Lod ge No. 8:
Saul Mor ris, died July 1 1953
·
'
Corinthil!-Jl Lod ge No. 9:
23 1953
Edw m Jam es Goo dpas tor, died July '
·
12:
No.
ge
Lod
nt
You
Will"lam Hen ry Gord on, died Feb ruar y 21 1953
·
'
N ev~a Lod ge No. 13:
1952
22
er
emb
Sept
died
F alte~ A Carl son,
.
'
rancIS M. Row e, died Aug ust 7' 1952 ·
l4:
Tem ple Lod ge No.
eri k W"Il"
Fred
Dob be!, died Octo ber 24 • 1952 ·
Will" cW l lal!l
atts, d1ed June 25 1953
Iam
·
'
Eure ka Lod ge No. 16:
Edw ard Ken neth McC abe died Janub'l97'11~~3.
John ~lexander Ferg uson : died Marc1
·
'
San J'oaq um Lod ge No. 19:
Dec emb er 11, 1952.
~udx,Ddied
%~: ~~~~sCCota:sprd
ecem ber 6 1952 ·
• le
'
W asN
bington Lod ge No. 20:
1953
12
ary
Janu
died
~rman Clau de Greg ory,
·
•
H awa uan Lod ge No. 21:
8 1953
Janu
died
,
Ross
s
min
Cum
on
Gord
·
Har ry Scot t Gray , died July 17,
:
Gold en Gate LC?dge No. 30
Nov emb er 15 1952·
EdwarRd Ohv er Teal l, died
'
·
Kr
Oscar ober t Wal d
~ovember 19, 1952.
Geo rge Her man Da~~:iark~\1~1e ruar y 23, 1953.
'
Oph ir Lod ge No. 33 :
y 22 1953
ruar
Feb
died
er,
Palm
Cha rles A.
·
'
How ard Lod ge No. 37:
1953
20
ary
Janu
died
ard,
Hibb
Wal ter B~rt
·
'
San ta ~ruz Lod ge No. 38 :
1952
16
ust
Aug
died
e,
War
ett
Will
1952
Lloy d Bow man , died Nov emb er 25.'
·
Mar tine z Lod ge No. 41:
1953
20,
y
ruar
Feb
_died
te,
\\'.'bi
J.
rt
~obe
.
tto K: Sm1th, d1ed Janu ary 22, 1953.
:
4
No.
4
Mou nt Mor iah Lod ge
· s
ber 22 1952
rg M
. Geo e aun ce tace y, died Sep tem
·
'
·
55:
No.
Suis un Lod ge
b
e
Nov
John Edw ard Wag ner died Aprll30er1~'5~952.
Geo rge Dav id Mitc hell, died
·
'
San ta Rosa Lod ge No. 5 7:
.
1953
30,
• Har ry Tho mps on Kyle , died May
Live Oak Lod ge No. 6l:
Mar ch 29, 1953
~harles Hen ry Yfood, died
.
1953
ei~>e.rt Beck with , died June 28 i953
..
17,
il
Apr
died
er,
Web
Sttan
ChrI
Nato ma Lod ge No. 64:
18, 1952.
6 1953
ch
Mar
died
ger,
szin
Moe
Ben Jam m Edw m
·
'
Cala vera s Lod ge No. 78:
.
1952
er 11,
Jose ph Hen ry Hub erty , died Dec emb

mW .

~~~}fe~~~kr~ ~i~J~~~ ~~g~~er

239

240

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Humboldt Lodge No. 79:
James Thomas Fraser, P.G.M., died June 26, 1953.
Fred Robinson, died October 9, 1952.
Yolo Lodge No. 81:
Warren A. Dozier, died August 17, 1952.
Henry Frederick Anderson, died March 19, 1953.
John Edward Jackson, died March 23, 1953.
Robert J. Hulbert, died January 5, 1953.
Eden Lodge No. 113:
Lynwood Julius Kelley, died October 28, 1953.
.
Concord Lodge No. 117:
James William Poindexter, died May 2, 1953.
Alamo Lodge No. 122:
Harry Lee Fryer, died December 6, 1952.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123:
William John Massoni, died October 1, 1952.
·
Hermann Lodge No. 127:
Willie Friedrich Baat, died January 9, 1953.
Wilhelm Eicher, died February 23, 1953.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131:
Robert G. Williams, died January 19, 1953.
Claudius C. Woodworth, died July 19, 1953.
Guy Adams, died August 12, 1952.
Grafton Lodge No: 141:
Homer Lester Peart, died October 20, 1952.
.
Vitrurius Lodge No. 145:
Wm. Clifford Earnshaw, died February 17, 1953.
Abell Lodge No. 146:
Frank T. Barker, died August 11, 1953.
Eel River Lodge No. 147:
Alonzo Strange Fulmor, died November 12, 1952.
Woodland Lodge No. 156:
Harold Oscar Cummings, died December 24, 1952.
Redwood City Lodge No. 168:
Roy Walter Cloud, died August 21, 1952.
Ralph Calvin Rathborn Mor:;er, died November 22, 1952.
William Anderson Keller, died May 16, 1953.
Mission Lodge No. 169:
Henry James Trowbridge, died March 4, 1953.
Drytown Lodge No. 174:
Trevor W. Weston, died March 24, 1953.
Russian River Lodge No. 181:
John F. Voss, died September 25, 1952.
Clear Lake Lodge No. 183:
John Wesley Constable, died September 5, 1952.
Keith Lodge No. 187:
Harry Bannister, died June 18, 1953.
Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Arnt Christen Heidekker, died February 21, 1953.
William Neil Munro, died March 14, 1953.
George Edmond Madison, died July 6, 1953.
Northern Light Lodge No. 190:
George Francis Farley, died September 2, 1952.
Marin Lodge No. 191:
Lynn Townsend White, died March 7, 1953.
Eugene William Smith, died July 17, 1953.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Wilmington Lodge No. 198:
Edgar Hume Marbut, died October 25, 1952.
Truckee Lodge No. 200:
George Carson, died May 8, 1953.
Silveyville Lodge No. 201:
Winfield Rightmire Madden, died July 6, 1952.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
William Rhodes Hervey, P.G.M., died February 1, 1953.
Salinas Lodge No. 204:
Alexander Robertson, died August 25, 1952.
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206:
Frank Marshall Moore, died June 21, 1953.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207:
Eldon R. Deering, died September 11, 1952.
King David's Lodge No. 209:
Lucien Julius Defosset, died April 24, 1953.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
Charles Henry Eisenhut, died January 13, 1953.
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214:
Scott M. Wilson, July 3, 1953.
Chester B. Trimble, July 10, 1953.
Inyo Lodge No. 221:
William Lyle Skinner, died September 6, 1952.
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225:
William Keay, died August 12, 1952.
San Mateo Lodge No. 226:
Walter Lee Johnstone, died January 30, 1953.
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243:
Joseph Edwin Hollingshead, died September 8, 1952.
Joseph Bradshaw Prowse, died February 21, 1953.
Fresno Lodge !fo. 247:
George Frederick Henfling, died June 6, 1953.
Welcome Lodge No. 255:
Harry Vacher Woodgates, died August 30, 1952.
John Fenton Graham, died November 20, 1952.
John Henry McGlashan, died March 27, 1953.
Angus McVicar, died May 5, 1953.
Lodi Lodge No. 256:
Alfred Westfall, died January 16, 1953.
Lompoc Lodge No. 262:
Howard E. Hutton, died September 23, 1952.
Alexander Main, died January 29, 1953.
Ronald McDonald Adam, died April 6, 1953.
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269:
Ulyssis Grant Cottle, died October 8, 1952.
Oakdale Lodge No. 275:
George Dexter Macomber, died June 17, 1953.
Southern .California Lodge No. 278:
James William Long, died March 12, 1953.
South West Lodge No. 283:
Bert King Hesseltine, died June 28, 1953.
Maxwell Lodge No. 288:
Milton Ernest Roscoe, died November 20, 1952.

241

242

PROCEIIDINGS OF THE

Elsinore Ledge No. 289:
C. Fred B. Klarer, died May 31, 1953.
Nicolas Matech, died August 17, 1952.
.
Orange Grove Lodge. No. 293:
Harrison Zachariah Adams, died July 23, 1953.
Alton Lincoln Hitchcock, died May 31, 1953.
John Allen King, died May 3, 1953.
Traver Lodge No. 294:
W. Clyde Rothermel, died June 17, 1953.
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297:
Ernest Wesley Carlton, died December 31, 1952.
Redlands Lodge No. 300:
James Ralph Montigel, died November 28, 1952.
Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302:
Joseph E. Reinhart, died October 11, 1952.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307:
Lucian L. Hamm, died October 14, 1952.
Delano Lodge No. 309:
Homer Andrew Bower, died May 17, 1953.
Reuben Andrew Root, died June 28, 1953.
Sisson Lodge No. 310:
Charles Lonn Hodge, died January 4, 1953.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:
Rupert Gilpin Doupe, died March 21, 1953.
Charles August Anderson, died June 29, 1953.
Temescal Lodge No. 314:
William Clair Hutchison, died April 28, 1953.
Fra~ Burman Ware, died April 30, 1953.
Emanuel Lodge No. 318:
Frederick A. Ditzler, died November 27, 1952.
South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Forest Willing Monroe, died April 24, 1953.
Alisa! Lodge No. 321:
Thomas William Harris, died May 25, 1953.
·
Whittier Lodge No. 323:
Clarence Seth Cole, died June 5, 1953.
Corona Lodge No. 324:
Alfred George Allen, died June 26, 1953.
Needles Lodge No. 326:
Clayton Cecil Morse, died November 11, 1952.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327:
George Warner House, died June 3, 1953.
Redondo Lodge No. 328:
Denton John Pitts, died August 2, 1952.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329:
Arthur Jules Fallandy, died June 26, 1953.
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331:
Charles Shellman Olmsted, died August 2, 1952.
Richard Chivers, died March 6, 1953.
Alta Lodge No. 333:
William L. Davis, died October 9, 1952.
William L Denton, died September 26, 1952.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Covina Lodge No. 334:
Walter Earl Trumbull, died December 17, 1952.
Seymour Locke Watts, died March 19, 1953.
Chas. David Griffith, died April 28, 1953.
William S. Sawyer, died July 26, 1953.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341:
William Reinherdt Livingston, died December 18, 1952.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346:
John Charles Freedman, died January 29, 1953.
McKinley Lodge No. 347:
Glenn Lincoln Conn, died October 10, 1952.
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348:
Harry Clifton Pease, died March 17, 1953.
Sunset Lodge No. 352:
Albert Alfred Lanphear, died December 25, 1952.
Pinole Lodge No. 353:
Percy Shelly Stott, died November 17, 1952.
Golden State Lodge No. 358:
Arthur Bernard Dittman, died April 10, 1953.
.
San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Henry Lewis Alves, died August 24, 1952.
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361:
Charles Hamilton Stephens, died July 4, 1953.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363:
Howard Charles Butler, died August 18, 1952.
Unity Lodge No. 368:
Roy William Masters, died November 25, 1952.
Amity Lodge No. 370:
John Ludwig Tamke, died October 8, 1952.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373:
Edward Arnold Riley, died September 19,1952.
Richmond Lodge No. 375:
William Carrol Johnson, died March 7, 1953.
Frank Hollingshead, died January 15, 1953.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376:
Carl Anton Edward Peterson, died April 30, 1953.
Oceanside Lodge No. 381:
Noel Milton Scheunemann, died August 19, 1952.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382:
Henry Earnest Walter, died August 14, 1952.
Orosi Lodge No. 383:
Albert Day Wrought, died March 17, 1953.
El Centro Lodge No. 384:
John Stewart Ross, P.G.M., died August 31, 1952.
Imperial Lodge No. 390:
John Howard Morgan, died July 21, 1953.
East Belt Lodge No. 391:
Elmer Ernest McDow, died August 26, 1952.
West Lake Lodge No. 392:
Stephen Allen Beckwith, September 4, 1952.
University Lodge No. 394:
John Alden West, died March 8, 1953.
Turlock Lodge No. 395:
Ruel Keats Smith, died January 9, 1953.
Robert James Hill. died May 26, 1953.

243

244

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
'

.

''i<'li'
Apollo Lodge No. 396:
.
Elmer Pixley Butterfield, died February 24, 1953.
Mark Edward Gains, died May 13, 1953.
Bay View Lodge No. 401:
·
Frank Thomas Sweeney, died October 24, 1952.
Moneta Lodge No. 405:
Mark Watson White, died April 18, 1953.
Burbank Lodge No. 406:
Thomas J. Henry, died September 13, 1952.
Glen Merle Odens, died June 11, 1953.
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408:
J. Albert Patterson, died April 28, 1953.
Honolulu Lodge No. 409:
Alvin Ernest Melim, died April 18, 1953.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Roy Ralph Beggs, died April 24, 1953.
Arlington Lodge No. 414:
• Arthur Ernest Schlemmer, died September 1, 1952.
CloYis Lodge No. 417:
Dan Brent Hinds died September 25, 1952.
James Elmo Pendergrass, died December 16, 1952.
Elysian Lodge No. 418:
Robert John Burke, died February 9, 1953.
Exeter Lodge No. 424:
Robb Roy Young, died June 23, 1953.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427:
Bert Roscoe Moody, died January 22, 1953.
Fairmount Lodge No. 435:
Edward Francis Leonard, died December 21, 1952.
Acacia Lodge No. 438:
Henry Stockmann, died February 17, 1953.
Schofield Lodge No. 443:
.
Heinrich Alexander Glade, died March 2, 1953.
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444:
Mads Christensen, died February 12, 1953.
Wilshire Lodge No. 445:
Warren Darst Gill. November 26, 1952.
Walter Weslie Chegwidden, died February 23, 1953.
Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448:
Wayman Ezra Ballenger, died April 7, 1953.
Montebello Lodge No. 451:
Raymond George Hilsinger, died July 12, 1953.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452:
Fred Emanuel Geibel, died October 20, 1952.
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
Daniel Cromwell Farnham, died December 25, 1952.
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
Peter John Barsi, died December 29, 1952.
Henry S Orme Lodge No. 458:
Archie John Alexander Robillard, died June 18, 1953.
Riverbank Lodge No. 459:
Jesse Edwin Williams, died August 26, 1952.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461:
Joseph Bernard, died May 4, 1953.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Alta Vista Lodge No. 464:
Rea Cambridge Newman, died March 7, 1953.
Coachella Lodge No. 476:
James Edward McFarlan, died November 4, 1952.
David Nelson Estel, died December 18, 1952.
Fellowship Lodge No. 480:
Walter Wesley Madison, died July 11, 1953.
Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482:
Frank Graves Falloon, died September 19, 1952.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486:
George McHugh, died October 27, 1952.
Avery James Yancey, died September 30, 1952.
Vallejo Lodge No. 487:
Max Charles Schmoekel, died October 16, 1952.
Patterson Lodge No. 488:
Percy Harrison, died September 17, 1952.
East Bay Lodge No. 489:
Homer Lowell Bower, died April 23, 1953.
Corcoran Lodge No. 490:
Rayford Graham Rich, died July 11, 1953.
Acom Lodge No. 494:
Ralph Marvin Scott, died February 12, 1953.
Stockton Lodge No. 498:
Robert James Le Clert, died October 2, 1952.
Seaside Lodge No. 504:
George Edwin Diamond, died March 28, 1953.
Silver Cord Lodge No. 505:
Earl H. Merker, died October 3, 1952.
Mount Olin Lodge No. 506:
Ivan Errol Silvera, died March 20, 1953.
Roy Howard Milton, died June 16, 1953.
Zacories Rodriguez, died July 24, 1953.
Argonne Lodge No. 514:
Henry George Mathewson, died March 21, 1953.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515:
Frank Shirley, died May 2, 1953.
Euclid Lodge No. 519:
Harry Joseph Campbell, died December 24, 1952.
Jonathan Josiah Hollibaugh, died June 11, 1953.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523:
Starret Tee Phillips, died September 1, 1952.
William Evart G. Chalmers, died September 16, 1952. ·
Covenant Lodge No. 527:
Douglas Howard Holman, died July 26, 1953.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530:
Alfred Wesley Wright, died December 11, 1952.
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536:
Ernest Williams Jakobs, died October 27, 1952.
Belvedere Lodge No. 538:
John Bradley Eaton, died November 8, 1952.
Frederick Hogben, died April 12, 1953.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542:
Roy Clarke True, died March 31, 1953.
Seaport Lodge No. 550:
Walter Hans Emil von Konsky, died November 3, 1952.

245

2i6

. PROCEEDINGS OP TH E

Edu cat or Lod ge No. 554 :ers on, die d Jul y 29, 1953.
Che ster Wi llia m Pat
:
Cra ftsm en Lod ge No. 559
ber 23, 1952.
Leo Alt ma n die d Sep tem
d Au gus t 23, 1952.
Ray Edm und Mc Mu llen , die
:
Ply mo uth Lod ge No. 560
d Sep tem ber 3, 1952.
Geo rge Me red ith Bag ley , die
Pyr am id Lod ge No. 562: Ma y 22, 1953.
Geo rge For far, die~
Foo thil l Lod ge No. 564:lrat h, die d Jan uar y 29, 1953.
Wil liam He nry Fol
No. 566:
Jam es A. Gar fiel d Lod ge
d Ap ril 16, 1953.
Leo nar d Roy Ham pto n, die
:
570
.
Mil itar y Ser vic e Lod ge No.
4, 1953.
Fre d Lee Som ers, die d Ap ril
ge No. 571:
2.
Fra nci s K. Sha ttuc k Lodrch
ild, die d Sep tem ber 11,2.195
He rbe rt Ros coe Fai
195
30,
ber
tem
Sep
d
die
ith,
Wi llia m Jac ob Sm
die d Feb rua ry 12, 1953.
Har old Hai ght Kn ow lton ,
:
2.
S W. Hac ket t Lod ge No. 574
ies, die d Sep tem ber 16, 195
· Wi llia m Em me tt Davker
ber 24, 1952.
vem
No
d
die
s,
Vic
ll
Na tha n Bar kdu
For t Cro ok Lod ge No. 575: d Dec em ber 31, 1952.
Ale x Con rad Ber g, die
g Lod ge No. 584:
din
Har
die d Jun e 15, 1953.
He rbe rt Osw ald Wil liam s,
·
:
589
2.
Kau ai Lod ge No.
son , die d Dec em ber 13, 195
Ben jam in Bur rou ghs Hen der
Me lros e Lod ge No. 602:
d Sep tem ber 12, 1952.
Cha rlie Pat rick O'K elly , die
:
605
Gla sse ll Par k Lod ge No. mo nd, die d Jun e 12, 1953.
Joh n Ale xan der Ham
Soj our ner Lod ge· No. 607: die d Ma y 19, 1953.
Do nal d Cou lter Sla ter,
Elm hur st Lod ge No. 610: d Jul y 6, 1953.
Roy He nry Win ing , die
Can oga Lod ge No. 611:
st, die d Oct obe r 14, 1952.
Geo rge Wa shi ngt on WeJul
y 14, 1953.
d
die
r,
Cec il Roy al Geh
:
617
No.
ge
Big Bea r Lod
d Au gus t 3, 1952.
Dav id Har old Cal lah an, die
Sou thla nd Lod ge No. 618:No vem ber 27, 1952.
Dav id Fle tch er, die d
:
An gel " Me sa Lod ge No. 625
d Ma y 8, 1953.
Alb ert Law ren ce Bur atti ,ddie
e 10, 1953.
Jun
die
tt,
Kla
rt
Alb ert He rbe
Fai rvi ew Lod ge No. 629:
d No vem ber 1, 1952.
Rob ert Ma ck Ov erp eck , die
Ing l•id e Lod ge No. 630: , die d Jun e 19, 1953.
Cha rles Edw ard Mo ore
:
Ben nol enc :e Lod ge No. 631d Oct obe r 6, 1952.
Lav ant V. Cau kin , die Sep tem ber 11, 1952.
Car l Ear l Dra ke, die d
Vic :to" 1lle Lod ge No. 634: d Jun e 27, 1953.
Wi llar d E. Rob inso n, die

RNIA
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO

2i7

Pal isad es Lod ge No. 637:
em ber 2, 1952.
Jam es Ma tthe ws, die d Dec
:
La Cum bre Lod ge No. 642
k, die d Jan uar y 16, 1953.
D~vid Row lan d Han coc
d Ap ril 19, 1953.
die
s,
Hay
rt
W1Star Du rwa
:
Me trop olit an Lod ge No. 646
No vem ber 10, 1952.
A. Wa lter Str eith ors t, die d
La Bre a Lod ge No. 650:
d Jan uar y 12, 1953.
The odo re Alw in Hei nol d, die
:
652
Cre sce nta Val ley Lod ge No.
die d Feb rua ry 26, 1953.
Fre der ick He rbe rt Coo per ,
Jor dan Lod ge No. 654:
ber 24, 1952.
Jay A. Pow ers , die d Sep tem
ss, die d Feb rua ry 25 ' 1953.
• . Leo nar d Gro
No. 658:
ge
Lod
n
sto
mg
Liv
d Oct obe r 31, 1952.
Jam es Rub en Goo dso n, die
:
Bal dw in Par k Lod ge No. 660
d Ma y 6, 1953.
Ray mo nd Arb orn Wa llin , die
Ma lta Lod ge No. 661:
y 21, 1953.
Hay es Bry ce Eck ert, die d Jul
:
He nry Kn ox Lod ge No. 662
23, 1953.
Wil liam C. Vai l, die d Ma rch
·
Kaw eah Lod ge No. 665:
rch 3, 1953.
Ros coe Ew in Wo od, die d Ma
Res eda Lod ge No. 666:
r, die d Jul y 13, 1953.
Ha rry Wa lton Van Der vee
:
669
Joh n P. Jar ma n Lod ge No.
, die d Dec em ber 8, 1952.
Jam es Bla ckl ock Wil kin son
:
672
Lag una Bea ch Lod ge No.
d No vem ber 20, 1952.
Leo nid as qic ero Kir kes , die
:
678
Alt ade na Lod ge No.
·
y, die d No vem ber 19,3. 1952.
Gra nt Walte~ Pen gill
e 8, 195
Jun
d
die
n,
nso
Joh
e!
Dam
Ric har d
Tra vel ers Lod ge No.: 692:
Sr., die d Ma y 22, 1953.
Wi llia m Ern est Com brin k,
723
· Ac: alan es Lod ge No.
die d Jun e 30, 1953.
Ho wa rd Ma cal pin Sm itte n,

At 12:15 P.M . Gr and Lodge
d ay.

0 AM ., Th urs~
was called off until 9·3
.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1953
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M .. the Grand Master presiding ..
The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation.

REPORT OF THE HISTORY COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report:
It seems proper that the History Committee should keep a record of
the last resting places of our deceased Past Grand Masters and to report
the supplemental list to Grand Lodge every year, so that it may be properly recorded in the proceedings of Grand Lodge.
Five Past Grand Masters have passe<i away this year, and their
resting places are as follows:
JAMES THOMAS FRASER, Section N, Grave No. 97, Ocean
·
View Cemetery, Eureka.
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, Lot 150, Sequoia Plot, Inglewood
Memorial Park.
ROBERT N. GAYLORD, Plot 33, Lot 124, West Half, Mountain
View Cemetery, Oakland.
ARTHUR W. BROUILLET, Plot 166, Section D. Urn Garden,
.
Woodlawn Cemetery, Colma.
W1LL F. F1scHER, Lot 25, Block 8, Grave 3, Woodland
.
Cemetery, Woodland.
As far as your History Committee is informed, six instances have
occurred in California where a Past Master has presented a fifty year
button to a candidate he had raised 50 years before. They are as follows:
On June 5, 1930, Past Master John Mclnich, of Eureka Lodge No. 16
.
at Auburn, presented a fifty year button to George McAuley.
On August 16, 1953, Past Master Louis Muller, of Herman Lodge
No. 127 at San Francisco, presented a fifty year button to Charles H.
Hildebrandt.
On May 22, 1945, Past Master Daniel McFadzan, of Visalia Lodge
No. 128, presented a fifty year button to John L. Rhode.
On January 25, 1953, Past Master J. H. Runckel. of Rising Star
Lodge No. 83 at Forest Hill, presented a fifty year button to John. Alexander Ferguson. The presentation was in Eureka Lodge No. 16 m Auburn.

249

On April 6, 1953, Past Master Carl Phillipi, of Granite Lodge No. 222
at Roseville, presented a fifty year button to Edward L. Layton. The
presentation was in Roseville Lodge No. 222 in Roseville.
William Rhodes Hervey was Master of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
of Los Angeles in 1899, and while Master, conferred the Third Degree
upon James Black Gist. On the First of November, 1949, Past Grand
Master William Rhodes Hervey presented a fifty year button tp Past
Grand Master James Black Gist, in Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 in Los
Angeles. This was an event of unusual interest, the first time in California where a Past Grand Master had the distinction of presenting a fifty
year emblem to a Past Grand Master he had raised.
The presentation of a fifty year button to John Alexander Ferguson
in Eureka Lodge No. 16 is also a notable event, for it is the second similar
presentation in Eureka Lodge No. 16.
Arden E. Turner of the National Sojourners, Chairman of the Committee on Honor Roll of Masonic ·Patriots, addressed a communication
to our Grand Master which has been turned over to your History Committee for a reply. The names to be included on the Honor Roll are
Masons who have distinguished themselves in the Naval or Military
forces, or who have contributed to the establishment or growth of America. The list is to include only California Masons who have been dead for
twenty-five years or more.
We have carefully prepared and sent the requested list, as follows:
General Nelson A. Miles, U. S. Military Force, Southern
California Lodge No. 278.
Rear ~dmiral Joseph Bullock Coghlan, Battle of Manila,
Spanish-American War, Solano Lodge No. 229.
Admiral George W. Baird, famous on all seven seas, Lodge
No. 87.
Commodore John Mills Browne, Civil War surgeon at the
Battle of the Merrimac and the Monitor off Hampton Roads, retired as Commodore in 1893, Naval Lodge No. 87.
Colonel Jonathon Drake Stevenson, Commander of the 1st
Regiment, New. York Volunteers, California - Mexican War,
California Lodge No. 1.
General Homer Lea, distinguished military authority who
rendered yeoman service on behalf of the Chinese Republic, and
was Military Adviser to President Sun Y at Sen of the Chinese
Republic, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.
Luther Burbank, plant wizard, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57.
Stephen J. Fields, distinguished jurist, Corinthian Lodge No.

9.
John Hayes Hammond, international mining engineer, Oriental Lodge No. 144.

250

251

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Thomas Starr King, distinguishe d minister and orator, who
was responsible for the success of the Sanitary Commission Fund
during the Civil War, Oriental Lodge No. 144.
Leland Stanford, president of the Central Pacific Railroad,
was Governor of California, U. 'S. Senator from California and
founder of Stanford University, Michigan City Lodge No. 47.
Something new is happening in Masonry every day. Proper records
should be kept of current events in the Lodges and of activities of Masons
in the respective communities. From our experience, we know that in
many instances records have not been kept of human interest stories
proper to be written. OWmes we do not regard happenings in the Lodge
room as history, unless they are unusual. highly spectacular or startling.
What may appear as an isolated event may be a part of, or result in,
something of greater moment. What appears of little consequence today
may, in the light of ·subsequent events. prove to be of major importance.
In our efforts to obtain from Lodges facts which properly reflect
Masonic events, we frequently receive the reply. "There is no history
worth relating in our Lodge." Several times further investigation has revealed that incidents vitally important had occurred in Lodges and to
Masons which, at first blush, brought the stereotyped reply, "No history."
It might be highly interesting and profitable if each Lodge in the
State would maintain a History Committee of one or more members,
which would write up these records and keep available interesting Masonic events.
Your Committee again respectfully urges all Lodges to keep a scrapbook in which may be pasted published accounts as to activities of the
Lodge or its members, so that future historians or new members may be
able to acquaint themselves with what has been published in papers or
magazines about the Lodge or its members. Lodges which have maintained scrapbooks for any considerable time report that new members
fully appreciate the information thus made accessible to them.
The various members of your History Committee have, upon invitation, appeared before Lodges, High Twelve Clubs and other meetings
sponsored by Masons and have discussed various phases of California
Masonic History. We are perfectly willing to thus accommoda~e the
Lodges and clubs, if dates are arranged at convenient times. If you desire this service, call upon members of the Committee living closest to
your Lodge or Club.
On the evening of January 16, 1953, in the gymnasium of Acalanes
High School. between Lafayette and Walnut Creek in Contra Costa
County, there occurred an event of unusual interest in California Masonic history. Grand Master Arthur Warren, in the presence of eleven
hundred forty Master Masons therein assembled, in addition to many

others turned away at the doors, instituted three new lodges! They were:
Acalanes Lodge, St. John's Lodge and San Ramon Valley Lodge. The
halls of these three new Lodges were in Lafayette ( Acalanes), Walnut
Creek (St. John's) and Danville (San Ramon Valley). Anticipating a
large attendance, and knowing that no ordinary hall would hold the
crowd, it was wisely decided to move over to the high school gymnasium
for the occasion. The attendance warranted the decision, and there were
many who claimed never in their lives to have seen so large a crowd at
a Blue Lodge meeting.
The Master of Acalanes Lodge presided in calling the brethren to
attention when the Grand Master was escorted into the Lodge room.
The Masters of the two sister Lodges occupied seats in the East. After
the Lodges were instituted by the Grand Master each of the three Lodges
repaired to its respective hall and separately opened the initial meetings
of their respective Lodges for the purpose of adopting their By-Laws, in
due form.
At this writing, it is contemplated that these· three Contra Costa
County Lodges will be constituted together in the same high school gymnasium in October or November, should all three be granted charters by
the Grand Lodge.
The background history which led to the establishment of Acalanes,
St. John's and San Ramon Valley Lodges is as follows:
Alamo Lodge No. 122 at Walnut Creek was for nearly ninety years
the only Masonic Lodge between Concord and Oakland. With the tremendous influx of population during the war years of 1941-45, and the
post-war years following, petitions in Alamo Lodge poured in upon the
Lodge in never-ceasin g numbers. From approximate ly 165 members in
1945, the Lodge grew to 450 members in January of 1953. The officers of
Alamo Lodge conferred nearly 900 degrees during the eight years!
When, finally, it appeared there would be no slackening of petitions,
the call went out to a group of sojourning brethren to afford the only relief possible by forming new Lodges. The call was answered by three
groups forming simultaneously. Each group sought signatures of sojourning brethren and tendered petitions for dispensations to the Grand
Lodge bearing approximate ly fifty signatures on each. Of these 150
charter members, only thirty were from Alamo Lodge.
Immediately following the granting of the dispensations, the Lodges
went to work in earnest. Many petitions came in from men who either
were waiting to join the n~w Lodges, or who were inspired to petition
through the excitement and publicity aroused over the unusual event. At
the last Stated Meeting of each Lodge under dispensation before the
1953 Grand Lodge Communication, they reported that during the intervening eight months, Acalanes Lodge had received nineteen petitions for
the degrees and four for affiliation. St. John's Lodge had accepted

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

twenty-one petitions for the degrees and ten for affiliation. San Ramon
Valley Lodge had accepted twenty-one petitions for the degrees and
sixteen for affiliation. Total petitions for the degrees was sixty-one and
for affiliation-thirty. Total petitions received was ninety-one. In addition to these. Alamo Lodge, the mother Lodge, received fifteen petitions
for the degrees, and eight for affiliation. The grand total of petitions for
degrees and for affiliation by the mother Lodge and her three offspring
was 11 O! The total number of petitions that Alamo Lodge ever received
during the rush of petitions following the influx was about forty.
Orinda Lodge No. 704 was instituted on September 28, 1949, in the
hall of Alamo Lodge. and received its charter at the Annual Communication in 1950. This lodge continues to grow in a creditable manner. and
also received a number of petitions during this eight-month period in
1953. However, the actual number was not obtainable in time for this
report.
In conclusion, it · should be stated for the record that the Mother
Lodge, Alamo, gave to her offspring unstinting support. Three Past
Masters of Alamo were asked to serve as Ritual Coaches for each of the
three new Lodges. They taught every officer his required work. Alamo
also provided St. John's Lodge with their meeting place at very nominal
rent, and the use of some of the Lodge room furnishings. Various officers
and consecrated members of Alamo Lodge gave continued support and
encouragement during the formative stages of organization when it
seemed that some of the three would never effect a lodge organization.
In conclusion, the Secretary of Alamo Lodge reports that as of the Septembers Stated Meeting before the 1953 Grand Lodge Communication,
through petitions for the degrees and for affiliation, the Lodge had recovered in membership 24 of the 30 lost by dimit since January 16, 1953,
and that by January 1, 1954, it appeared there would be sufficient petitions to make up the whole loss.
Your Committee recommends that the History Committee be continued for the following Masonic year, and that the SUJil of $100.00 be
appropriated and set aside for its use.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
TRIAL PROCEDURES

252

Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL, For the Committee
Referred to the Committee on Finance. ·

253

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In accordance with the understanding of the Committee that we were
to study and recommend the proposed revision of Section 295 of the Ross
Digest, we submit the following report. The suggested procedure is for
the purpose of simplifying the proceedings where a plea of guilty to a
Masonic offense is to be offered.
We recommend that Section 295 be amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 295. Upon the presentation of such charges, the Master shall
carefully examine the charge and specifications, and, if they are evidently
frivolous, or if the act or acts with which the accused is charged, is or
are clearly such as to not constitute a Masonic offense, he may refuse
to entertain them. But, should it appear otherwise, and it is known to
him that the accuser is a Master Mason in ·good standing, he shall" ...
cause to be served upon the accused, by the filer or some other member
of the Lodge authorized by the Master for that purpose, or mailed to
the accused at his last known address by registered mail. postage prepaid, a copy of the charges and specifications and notice to the accused
that unless the accused intends to make any defense to the charges, the
Master and Wardens will proceed to hear the matter summarily and fix
the penalty. The notice of int~ntion to make a defense by the accused
shall be mailed by accused within 15 days after service or receipt of
the charges and notice by the accused. The notice to the accused shall
be substantially in the following form:
.
Brother......... ~............................... :
There is attached hereto a copy of charges and specifications filed
with the undersigned as Master 0£.. .............................. Lodge No.............,
and which are hereby served upon you.
Unless a written request for a hearing of the matter alleged against
you in the charges and specifications is delivered or mailed to the Master
within fifteen ( 15 ) days after your receipt of this notice by mail or
service, no further proceedings in the way of trial shall be had, and the
Master and Wardens will summarily hear the matter and fix the penalty
against you.
The request for a trial may be made by signing, delivering or mailing
to the undersigned as Master, the enclosed form entitled "Notice of
Defense" or a letter stating that you desire a trial as provided by Masonic Law. If you request such a trial, proceedings will be commenced
for the election of trial commissioners and you will be served with
summons advising you as to the date of trial.
Dated:
Worshipful Master

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

NOTICE OF DEFENSE

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMIT TEE ON
INSURAN CE PROGRA M

To the Master 0£•....•.....•.........:...•......................Lodge, No ..·-··-····---·······---The undersigned hereby acknowledg es receipt of charges and specifkations dated -····-··--·-··---------·----·······--··- and I request a hearing by trial
as in Masonic Law provided:
Dated:

255

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Insurance Program is pleased to submit the
following report:
PUBLIC LIABILITY COVERAGE

In the event the accused files the Notice of Defense or requests a
trial by letter or otherwise, the Master shall call a special meeting of
his Lodge, as soon as practicable for the election of Commissioners and
the conduct of the trial as provided in Sections 296-339.
If the accused does not request a trial, the Master and Wardens
shall interview the accuser and such other witnesses as they deem necessary, fix and determine the guilt of the accused and the nenalty, and at
the next stated meeting of the Lodge, the Master shall announce the
penalty and the Secretary shall record the same as the judgment of the
Lodge. The Secretary shall immediately after said stated meeting notify
the accused of the penalty fixed by the Master. The record shall be
prepared by the Secretary and shall consist of evidence that the accused
was duly served with copy of charges and notice, a summary of evidence
and the facts to support the charges, the penalty fixed and determined
by the Master and Wardens and a copy of the minutes of the Lodge
as to the announceme nt of the penalty in the Lodge. The Secretary
shall transmit the original of the record to the Grand Secretary, and
file a copy thereof in the archives of the Lodge. The record shall be
referred to the Grievance Committee for report and action at the next
Annual Commuication of Grand Lodge in accordance with the regular
procedure prescribed in the Ordinances for trails.
If the Master is disqualified to hear and determine the matter for
any reason, the Grand Master may appoint any Past Master of the
jurisdiction to hear and determine it with the same power and authority
as the Master whose place he takes.
Respectfully submitted,
HARRY

J. NEU BARTH

GERALD LEVIN
KENNETH G . BLACKMAN

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Grievances.

Your special committee on insurance reviewed and investigated the
effectiveness and adequacy of Public Liability Coverage of the Grand
Lodge and constituent lodges and believe the plan of General Liability
insurance, dated September 24, 1953; as developed by Thompkins &
Company as brokers with the Seaboard Surety Company, is well developed and equitably marketed. The limits of liability quoted are
certainly not excessive. In the absence of information as to the exact
specifications furnished the broker by the officers of the Grand Lodge.
for their guidance in the development of the recommended program,
it is considered advisable to touch upon all matters from the standpoint
of their consideration in long-term planning and not with any idea of
criticizing the preparation of the submittal as now constituted.
Your committee feels that in order to provide the proper coverage
at the most economical rate, the plan should be broadened to include
Grand Lodge, the constituent lodges and their so-called "Temple Associations." While it is appreciated that the Grand Lodge does' not have
jurisdiction over so-called "Temple Association s" it is regarded by the
Committee that the interests of the lodges and associations are so closely
connected that exposure to loss cannot properly be segregated between
them. Accordingly, it is recommended that this program be expanded
to include the liability of such "Temple Association s" for the ownership
and maintenance of such real property in addition to the contemplated
protection of the active lodges for the occupancy and ownership. The
inclusion of the "Temple Association s" will eliminate overlapping coverage at a very nominal additional cost.
It is further recommended that all constituent lodges be included in
the program to provide uniformity of coverage for the adequate protection of Grand Lodge as well as the constituent lodges. In order to accomplish this, it will be necessary to make the program mandatory by
Grand Lodge and it would probably necessitate the cost being covered
by a per capita tax, as mentioned in the proposal submitted by Thompkins & Company.
On the assumption that the officers of the Grand Lodge may have
occasion to travel well beyond the confines of the State of California,
and even the territorial boundaries of the United States, it is recommened that the coverage, in the present policy, be extended with ref-

256

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

terrierence to operati ons other than automobile, to cover on the same
States
United
the
torial basis as the automobile portion, to wit: "With in
d."
of America, its territor ies or possessions, Canad a or Newfo undlan
that
ended
With further referen ce to the presen t policy, it is recomm
into
ed
extend
be
policy
t
Part III, Definition of Insured in the presen
that
to
n
additio
in
A
ge
Covera
clude covera ge on hired cars under
prescribed for owned automobiles under Covera ge C and D.
ed
It should he unders tood that the recommended covera ge is design
reprethe
and
lodges
uent
constit
the
to cover only the Grand Lodge,
ed
sentati ve officers and members of each. This covera ge is not design
of
Order
the
as
such
zations
organi
y
friendl
to
ion
to extend protect
or
in
either
ons
Easter n Star, Order of DeMol ay, etc. for their operati
attend ant with the proper ties of the Grand Lodge.
ALL RISK PROPER TY FLOAT ER

A quotati on was obtaine d on an "All Risk" Proper ty Floa~r policy
miscelcovering the furniture, equipment, pictures, regalia and other
valuaa
on
based
Lodge,
Grand
the
by
owned
ent
equipm
laneous lodge
ry.
Secreta
Grand
tion of $15,000, which figure was furnish ed by the
year
per
%
1
for
d
involve
risk
The insuran ce compa ny would cover the
the
anywh ere in the United States and Canad a. This would allow
ng
obtaini
t
withou
will
at
ent
equipm
and
regalia
Grand Lodge to move its
Ness
Van
25
from
d
remove
is
ent
equipm
such
when
ge
specific covera
three
A venue. If it is so desired, the premium could be written for
a
effect
would
hich
years at two and one-ha lf times the annual rate-w
te
elimina
could
Lodge
Grand
the
saving. If this covera ge is carried ,
their presen t fire insuran ce policy on furnitu re and equipment.
It is the opinion of your Committee that the Grand Lodge should
recomavail themselves of an "All Risk" covera ge and we, therefo re,
mend that it he obtaine d.
WoRKM EN's COMPE NSATIO N

As authorized, your special committee on insuran ce made a survey
of the
of the Workm en's Compe nsation covera ge now carried by each
quesa
g
sendin
by
lished
accomp
was
subord inate lodges. The survey
621
the
of
·
l
H
from
replies
in
d
resulte
tionnai re to all lodges, which
ered
consid
is
it
return
%
71
a
is
the
lodges in this jurisdiction. As
represe ntative of all lodges.
The survey indicat ed that of the HI lodges reporting, only 121
law
carried workm en's compenstation insuran ce as require d by State
ratio
same
the
and the balance of 320 were not covered. In our opinion
would prevail if reports had been received from all lodges.
As a result of the survey, it is quite eviden t that approx imately 70%
Lodge
of the lodges are inadeq uately covered .and, therefore, the Grand

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

256-a

gs
Our club house has always been one of the most attracti ve buildin
The
on or near the campus. It is well equipp ed for studen t activities.
h
er
Howev
te
comple
and
ideal
a physical plant, is
club,
• we ave one
·
. as
t membership
studen
large
ably
reason
a
have
we
while
;
pr~blem
maJor
each
and provide wholesome surrou ndings for several hundre d studen ts
to
nel
person
and
s
facilitie
te
adequa
year, the fact remains that we have
s
facilitie
these
put
to
accomodate several hundre d more. We would like
the
and
to their fullest use. The need for greater suppor t of both our club
Lodge
Berkeley Club is very clearly mentioned in the report to Grand
Club
ey
Berkel
the
of
ent
made last yea~ by Robert E. Keldgard, Presid
d.
House at the time, and to which your attenti on is again referre
Our club house staff has been fully cogniz ant of this problem and
its
used the following publicity measures to bring our club house and
facilities before the studen t body:
1. Pamph lets about the club and require ments for membership were
sity
sent to all incoming studen ts. The names were obtaine d from Univer
.
lists.
the
2. Articles about the club appear ed in the orientati~n issue of
ts.
studen
all
by
d
receive
was
school paper, "Daily Bruin," which
.3. c:>n Orient ation Day a booth was mainta ined on campus from
club.
which literatu re was distrib uted and inform ation given about our
1. This semester, in order to acquai nt the Univer sity public with our
invitaclub and its activities, the Studen t Council of our club extend ed an
Aption to the Panhel lenic officers to hold their pre-rus h tea at our club.
n,
Wome
of
Dean
the
by
sed
addres
proxim ately 550 young women were
were
girls
The
~e Panhellenic officers and a reprei;entative of the Club.
m,
given an opport unity of inspecting our lounge, study rooms, ballroo
and snack bar, and were very much impressed.
es
We are not burden ing this report with the full Jist of social activiti
times
mai~tained for the club members; that list has been given many
te
comple
and
full
a
that
say
to
nt
during the past years. It is sufficie
the
during
on
carried
schedule of social and philant hropic activities is
two semesters.
It is our earnes t hope that the attentio n of all Califor nia Mason s can
Mahe called to this very worthw hile activity of Grand Lodge; that the
of
age
sonic children attendi ng both Universities may take full advant
.
the conveniences mainta ined for them at both Berkeley and Los An~les

256-b

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

' We propose the following budget for the ensuing year, and recommend that it be referred to the Committee on Finance:
Director of ~...................................- ....••..$ 3,360.00
Assistant to ~--····································--·~· 2,220.00
Building Assistants .............................................. 1,440.00
General Building Maintenance............................ 1,800.00
Gardener and Gardening....................................
600.00
Magazines and Newspapers................................
125.00
Heat, light, water, and power....·-··········-··········· 1,000.00
Telephone ·············································--·······----375.00
Office Supplies......................................................
125.00
Postage ................................................................
75.00
Taxes .................................................................... 3,000.00
650.00
Insurance ···························································:··
Auditing .••.............................................................
100.00
Stationery and Printing.. ...................................... • 200.00
Social Security ... ~..................................................
300.00
Depreciation ........................................................ 6,580.00
Miscellaneous .......................................................
100.00

.The balance of the increase in our budget is due to salary increases
for the Director of Activities, the Assistant to the Director, and small
necessary increases in the other items.
Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH MEYER
A. CURTIS SMITH

c. EARLE CRANE
CLYDE C. SHOEMAKER
JOHN A. KLARQUIST

Total Depreciation ..................................... .

$6.580.00

ELVIN

c. DRAKE

EDWIN

w. WADE

MARION A. DUNCAN
JOHN M. ASKIN
HOWARD M. WILSON

$22,050.00
Our budget this year shows an increase over last year of $2,370.00.
The depreciation figure has increased $1.420.00 and is computed as follows:
Building and Landscaping (less depreciation ) ...... $69,785.72
Depreciation on basis of 24 years..........................
$2,908.00
Furnishings and Equipment (less depreciation) .. 33,055.47
Depreciation on basis of 9 years............................
3,672.00

256-c

HERBERT H. COOPER
CHARLES E. LISTENWALTER
FRANK REINSCH

A. H. NICOLL
Referred to Committee on Finance.

256-e

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC CLUB HOUSE,
BERKELEY

There is an item that is very much desired by the students which
:-"~uld be of .material assistance to them. You will flnd a note regarding
it m ,the Spri~g Report of President Paul R. Merritt. The request is for
a tape recording machine or a three speed record changer and new records. (The Board feels the latter.)

256-d

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of
California at Berkeley respectfully submits its report covering the year
1952-1953.
The Board considers it to be one of its important duties to maintain
the physical properties of the Club in flrst class condition. To that end,
we provide in our budget items to care for certain replacements and repairs. During the past year, a material improvement was the replacement
of the cement sidewalk on the Bowditch Street frontage of the property.
This was an item in a former budget, but because of the delay by the
contractor it was not undertaken and completed until this year. The original contract called for the repair of the existing sidewalk. However, due
to the poor condition of the existing walk, it was decided to install a new
walk which would be extended to the street curbline. This has not only
greatly improved the appearance of the property, but also has removed
a great possibility of damage suits because of the faulty condition of the
old walk. The total cost was $446.40.
Some of the other more important improvements are: Repair of the
linoleum in the billiard room, and recovering of the pool table; an additional letter flle: three pianos completely reconditioned; window shades
replaced: several pieces of furniture recovered: purchase of two reconditioned typewriters.
An expenditure that has greatly added to the enjoyment of the students was the purchase of a large television set. Through the courtesy of
one of our members, we were able to buy this at quite a saving.
During this summer, the annual cleaning, painting, floor waxing, etc.,
has been carried out.
There are three principal improvement items listed in the 1953-54
budget. One is the replacement of the large reception room rug. This
was planned for this year, but the Board decided it could be made to last
another year---especially as prices of rugs were on the decline. This replacement is carried over in the new budget. Another large item is the
replacement of the window drapes. The present drapes are about twenty
years oia, and in very poor condition. The third is for necessary repairs
to the cornice and the roof. This must be done before winter.

In addition to its responsibility for the care of the club property, your
Board of Directors has endeavored to promote the most effective use of
the club by the students, and has participated in the various student activities. For a report of student activities, we respectfully refer you to
the attached reports of student Presidents Paul R. Merritt and Miss
Joanne D. Anderson. While there is always room for improvement, we
feel that the club is well managed, and successful efforts to increase the
enrollment have been made during the year.
One of the most enjoyable social events of the year was the visit of
our Grand Master, M.W, Arthur M. Warren, and his family. This is
an event eagerly looked forward to by the students, and they truly enjoyed meeting him and his family.
Another important affair was the visit of the Grand Master and some
450 Masons during Grand Lodge Week. The Board sincerely appreciates the interest of the Grand Master and his fellow officers in the club.
While we regretted that both Brother Earl Warren and Brother Frank
R. Killinger felt it necessary to resign from the Board because of inability
to attend, it api>reciates the appointment of Brother Angus Holden of
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481 and Brother Gene Otwell of El Cerrito
Lodge No. 705 to fill the vacancies. These two brothers have proven to
be very helpful and cooperative.
During the year your Board has given much consideration to means
for promoting interest in and knowledge of the Masonic Club House.
h would like to see the Masters of Lodges of the state as fully interested
in the Masonic Clubs as in the Masonic Homes. The following is an
exact quote from a letter recently received from the Master of a California Lodge:
"Dear Sir:
"I am interested in having information on the Masonic Club
House for the students of the University of California. Please
send me the details such as the requirements, cost and purpose of
the dub. Can members take friends such as roommates? And any
other information you have on it."
(Signed by the Master.)

256-f

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
,

You will note in President Anderson's report that we gained recognition by the University, and permission to advertise on the campus.
To assist in promotion the Board, with Brother Russell Horstman
heading the committee, issued a new pamphlet giving information to the
students. Brother Horstman did an excellent job. A copy of the pamphlet is attached to this report. The total cost was $386.94.
The annual budget for 1953-1 954 was carefully prepared by the
Budget Committee, Brother Carl B. Munck, Chairman, and finally adopted at a special meeting of the Board held September 17, 1953. It covers
the general operating expenses of the Club House and improvements
deemed necessary by the Board. All this is fully set forth in a copy of
the budget hereto attached.
Again the' Board of Directors desires to express sincere appreciation
for the interest in the work of our Club House by the M.W. Grand Master, his corps of officers and other members of the Grand Lodge.
The Board will appreciate it if the incoming Grand Master in his
travels throughout the state will convey in his messages to the Lodges
information covering the purposes of and opportunities offered in our
Masonic Club Houses.
A most cordial invitation is extended to all of the members of the
Grand Lodge to visit the Club House during Grand Lodge Week. Our
hostess, Mrs. Edna Norton, continues to serve faithfully, and will be glad
to receive visitors at all times.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER T. HELMS
CARLISL'E D. NIELSEN

R. P. WISECARVER
RussELL C. HoRSTMAN
LEO E. SIEVERT
PAUL

s. BOREN

CARL B. MuNcK
ANGUS S. HOLDEN
GENE c. OTWELL
Referred to Committee on Finance.

Budget, 1953-1954
University of California Masonic Club
Berkeley, California
Hostess Salary ·········································-·········$ 3,300.00
Attendants ............................................................ 1,500.00
. Accountant ..........................................................
360.00
Janitor-Gardener.................................................. 2,400.00
General Repairs ..................................................
450.00
Summer Cleanup ..................................................
650.00
City and County Taxes...................................... 2,400.00
Social Security ......................................................
60.00
Insurance ..............................................................
500.00
Janitorial Supplies ................................................
550.00
Heat, light, water.................................................. 1,400.00
~elephone ............................................................
300.00
arbage ................................................................
70.00
Garden Supplies ..................................................
75.00
150.00
Office Supplies and Periodicals.............. ~...........
Auditing ..............................................................
150.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................
500.00
Total Estimated Budget.............................. $14,815.00
Furniture and Major Replacements.................... $ 4,050.00
Unreimbursed Depreciation Fund...................... 3,000.00
Depreciation ........................................................ 4,010.00
Grand Total ...........................................•.... $25,875.00
Less Unexpended Funds...................................... 3,854.26
Total Budget ................................................ $22,020.74

256-g

256-h

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of the President
University Masonic Club
Spring 1953
I. Membership:
During the spring semester, the membership reached approximately
200 people. There was a slight drop from the preceding semester, probably due to the decrease in registration at the University.
We tried several new ways to increase membership. We kept members at the booth in registration line to bring prospective members over
to the club as they came out of registration. This seemed to help in making the Club known better. New folders advertising the Club were also
printed in time for passing out in the line.
II. Open House:
The first two weeks of the spring semester were turned over to open
h'ouse activities at the Club. We secured a permit to operate a public
address system, and music and announcements of the Club facilities were
broadcast to the passing public during the hours the Club was open. We
also had record dances on Friday and Saturday nights with free admission and refreshments. These were attended by 100 to" 150 new people.
This gave us a good chance to show off the Club to new people.
III. Social Activities:
We s~arted Coffee Hours this semester, with faculty members from
the University coming over to the Club and just chatting with the members. Many of us cleared up many things had been bothering us this way.
Our Sunday Suppers were held every month. Heads of Job's Daugh. ters, DeMolay, and Rainbow Girls were invited to these to look the Club
over and go back to their groups with the information as to what the
Club offered and what the members did. Our Faculty Representative,
Dr. Stohler, also went around to these organizations with the same purpose. 'f.his should help membership.
The Board of Trustees also helped in this line. We decided to open
our Initiation Dance to high school seniors in the above mentioned organizations and invite them to witness our Initiation Ceremony itself.
Many of them came and stayed to dance. The evening was one of the
best events of the semester. A midnight dinner climaxed the affair.
The dinner and dance honoring t•e Grand Master wa! probably the
best remembered event of the semester. All of us enjoyed meeting the
Grand Master and his family, and the members of Grand Lodge who
were able to attend. The whole idea and spirit of Masonry was brought
a lot closer to us through their appearance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

256-i

A women's tea and fashion show was put on by the female members
of the Club in March. This was a success, as it always is. Clothes were
modeled by the Club members from the various women's stores around
Berkeley. All of the mothers of the members were invited.
We had a picnic at Adobe Creek Lodge, outside of San Jose. Despite
the fac~ tha.t we were rained out, everyone had a lot of fun playing ball
and swimming. The Club furnished some of the lunch, and the members
brought the rest. This furnished a needed relief from studying for midterms.
The Club also sponsored Bowling and Skating Parties during the
semester at local places. These events were also successful due to a large
turnout and lots of spirit on the part of the members.
Our p~e~ges rece~ved the benefit of a system doing away with pledge
~ours. This 1~ea was tried last semester, and shows signs of being a good
idea for g_ettmg new people into Club affairs. It's basically a committee
system with the plan of getting all members on committees under the
leadership of Council members. The committees were all set up this semester, and turned in good results. The pledges also formed theii: own
group under the leadership of the Membership Secretary, and had a lot
of fun putting on a dance for the members. It was well planned by them
and showed a lot of work.
IV. Snack Bar:
The Snack Bar showed a profit this year, by selling sandwiches and
hot dogs at noon in addition to their soup and milk. Coffee and donuts
were a strong favorite in the morning.
V. Miscellaneous:
The new television set occupies a place of honor in the main room
and is probably the most used of all of our facilities. It runs most of th~
day and a good part of the evening, giving the members a much needed
break from studying.

256-j

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Recovering of the pool tables gave the men a much better place to
give to some extra energy also. Their use has 'picked up considerably
since.
The Photography Darkroom received its share of use, too. Many of
the people used it to save themselves some money on pictures. and it was
also used to prepare pictures from our dances.
Two of the items needed at the Club seem to be hard to come by.
One is a tape recorder. With it, the members could practice speeches,
and other things necessary to school. The Club itself could record music
for dances. and interesting things that happen around here. It could be
substituted for the second necessity. which is a three speed record changer and new records. Maybe one or both of these will be forthcoming soon
if some Lodge is lookins:i for an idea on something we could really use.
In conclusion, I'd like to thank Mrs. Morton, the Board of Trustees,
representatives of Henry Morse Stephens Lodge. and Faculty Representative Dr. Stohler for making my job as President easier for me, and
above all. I think the members will join me in thanking the Masons of
California for providing the Masonic Club for our use as a home away
from home.
Respectfully submitted.
PAUL

R. MERRITT

President, University Masonic Club
Spring 1953
Report of the President
Fall 1952
I. Organization:
Council members were elected at res:iular1y scheduled elections. Office
hours were held twice weekly by each council member. In accordance
with the Club Constitution council meetings were held bi-weekly. A new
committee system was introduced and proved to be of great value after
certain necessary improvements were made. This system equalized the
duties of the council members.
II. Membership:
Membership was approximately 225 for the fall semester. Further
opportunity for increased membership was made possible by gaining
University recognition. This gives us permission to advertise on campus.
Our University sponsor under the terms of the recognition is Dr. Rudolf
J. Stohler.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

256-k

III. Snack Bar:
The Snack Bar proved profitable by serving sandwiches and coffee
throughout the semester. It is a favorite gathering place for that between-classes cup of coffee.
IV. Activities-Recreational & Social:
Our Open House activities proved to be very successful. They were
well attended and with the new charter we hope that they will be even
more successful in the future.
General business meetings were held the first Sunday of every month
and as usual a supper preceded the meetings. After the meetings we had
movies and/or dancing. These meetings are enjoyed by everyone; especially those members preparing the supper.
The annual All-U weekend was held on the Berkeley campus this
year. Our sister club from the U.C.L.A. campus was our guest. Brunch
was served before the game as is customary.
A wood-gathering party in November brought in a comfortable supply of wood besides giving the members attending a chance to enjoy a
nice weekend at Redding. Our thanks to Marcie Micheal for her hospitality and generosity in making the party possible.
Our pledge class gave a very successful dance with a South Seas
theme. The ballroom was changed into a tropic isle for the evening and
the "islanders" had a very good time.
The members had an old-fashioned tree-decorating party that was a
treat for all. The pie and ice cream were especially enjoyed. Members of
the Henry Morse Stephens Lodge joined us and were responsible for
the wonderful.refreshments.
.
·
Initiation this semester was highlighted by a candle-light procession
in the ballroom. Dr. Stohler was the speaker for the occasion and his
wit and humor made the perfect welcome for our new members.
Our annual children's party was held after school had recessed for
vacation at Christmas time. However, the party was well attended by
the members as our guests were teen-agers affiicted with cerebral palsy.
We have had these children to the Club before and they have become
very dear to all who have met them. The big question is who enjoyed the
party more, the hosts or the guests?
Despite a very limited budget our semester was a success on the
whole. Our activities did not reach the splendid heights of former years,
but they were enjoyed immensely by the participants.
V. Visitors:
We were honored by the annual visit of the Grand Lodge this year
when almost 450 visitors toured the club.
VI. Publicity:
Our advertising scope was greatly increased by on-campus publicity.
We feel that by closer relations to the University our membership will
increase quite noticeably.
·

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

256-1

VII. Conclusion:
This semester has been one of readjustment and great change. We
feel that the following semester will bear the fruit of our work this Fall.
I should like to thank Mrs. Edna M. Morton and Marcie Micheal for
their help over the All-U weekend and in emergencies. Deepest thanks
to Dr. Stohler for his support and help in setting the club on its way to
better relations with the University; to Mr. Marvin Martin and Mr. C.
Melvin Davis, the representatives from Henry Morse Stephens Lodge
for their kind support and counsel over a hectic semester; to Lee Vellom,
Social Chairman, who was my right hand and best help with Council
affairs, to the Executive Council. and the members of the Club for making everything worthwhile.
Respectfully submitted,
JOANNE D. ANDERSON

President, Fall 1952

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

257

of California is assuming a contingent liability which should be insured.
Your committee concurs with the previous recommendation of the
Grand Secretary to have the Grand Lodge of California negotiate
blanket workmen's compensation coverage to include all subordinate
lodges as well as the Grand Lodge of California. Such a policy will
furnish adequate coverage and result in a considerable reduction in
total premium.
It is estimated that the total premium to insure all 621 lodges will
be approximately $5,000.00 annually. In view of the nominal premium
it will probably be to the advantage of the Grand Lodge of California
to assume the cost and thereby eliminate the clerical work necessary to
determine and collect pro rata amounts from the respective lodges.
It is suggested that due consideration be given to place the policy
with a substantial carrier who writes on a participating basis in order
to obtain the best coverage at the lowest cost.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT NELSON

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The recommendation of the Grand Master with reference to dues
in Research Lodges, expenses of Public Schools Week observance, cost
of proficiency certificates, cost of presentation trowels, membership on
the Charters Committee, the Special Committee on Recognition of
Foreign Grand Lodges, the continuation of the Commission for the Revision of the Ross Digest, the elimination of the Committees on Returns and on Library, and the extention of time limit for constituting
newly chartered lodges have been approved by your Committee.
WM.B.OGDEN
LESLIE E. WooD
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ELLSWORTH MEYER
EDWARD H . SIEMS
JOHN C. WIESNER
DENTON C. BARKER
LEO E. ANDERSON
THOMAS B. COPELAND

Adopted.

ARTHUR F. STREHLOW
HORACE F. CAGWIN

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
MASONIC CLUB HOUSE, LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In our reports for the last three communications, we have given you
information regarding the redecoration of the club house which you
maintain adjacent to the U.C.L.A. campus. We are pleased to report that
throughout the club house, new rugs have been laid, furniture either replaced or refinished, and new drapes installed. The whole redecorating
scheme provides a beautiful, luxurious interior for the use of our members.
It is also gratifying to report that, although the final cost for the complete refurnishing was approximately $23,000.00, nevertheless it was
necessary to sell only $5,500.00 bonds from our reserve fund. We were
able to absorb the entire cost without asking Grand Lodge for additional
assistance.
One new member of the board was nominated and elected during the
year, Brother A. H. Nicoll, a Past Master of Mt. Davidson Lodge, a
pr_ominent business man, and one who has served Grand Lodge this year
as Grand Sword Bearer.

258

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONFIRMING IN THE MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA THE LEGAL TITLE TO THE PERMANENT
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
. .
There was referred to your Committee a resolutio~ contming ;n t~~:
Masonic Homes of California, a charitable corpora~onH, t e egfa Cali·
f the Masonic omes o
.
to the Permanent Endowment F un d o
fornia. This resolution tells the story, and reads as follows.
s e
"WHEREAS in 1909 Grand Lodge adopted the repor~ of a p . H
"th a recommendation, among
t Fund of the Macial committee on the M aso~~c omes wk d
others, for the creation of a Permanent n owmen
sonic Homes of California": and
d f
"WHEREAS in 1910 the fund was inaugurated by the ~oar o
Trustees of Masonic Homes by combining its. "Permanen:r ;::~o;~;
ment F un d .. wi"th the amount of a bequest received that ye
Estate of Brother Jacob Hart Neff: and
.
.
"WHEREAS in 1919 the Masonic Homes of Cahfor~ia ~e~~
. bl
ti with powers to take, receive, o
formed into a charita e corfpo~a ~ nic Homes of California title to
and transfer in the name o t e aso
. .
h 0 d"
real and personal property howsoever acquired, and
"WHEREAS as the provisions of Sections 79 a~d 80 ofdt
~
d
h Trustees of that corporation are ec are o
nances of Grand Lo ge, ~ e
. . ally appointed under the resolube the successors of the ~ust~es origi~y thereto· and there is vested in
tions adopted in 1892/n s~ sequ~ real and.personal, and all rights
that corporation the tit e t.o a pr~pe •
hi h it may in any way beof action belonging to said charity, or to w c
come entitled"; and .
. d
b
"rtue of
"WHEREAS the Grand Treasurer of Grand Lo ge Y. vi C
· H
M
f California, a orhis office is also the Treasurher of t ;son;cthe o~:Jo:ment Fund and all
poration, and as such has t e c~s o '( o
.
fund so f Masonic Homes of California: and f G
d Lod
was estab"WHEREAS an Endowment Board o
ran
ge .
M
. .
f 15 members representing the various alished in 1933 consisting o
h
h
d wi"th the duty among
•
.
. C 1"f nia w o are c arge
sonic districts m a i or
d
d to Masons for contributions
others, of issuing ap~eald t~o~h~~~ ~=s~~ic Homes of California; and
to the Endowment un
th E dowment Board recommends certhat in issuing these apbeals, e . ~ that in all of them it is suggested
tain forms for gifts and :ques~, ~n "Masonic Homes of California, a
that the gift or be~uest e ma e o art of its Endowment Fund" and
. California corporation, tob beco::d: ~irectly to the Corporation, all of
gifts and bequests .have een
onfusion as to the ownership of such
which has resulted m unnecessary c
funds: and

f ;-

259

"WHEREAS during the current year a bequest to "Masonic Endowment Fund of the Grand Lodge of California" was reported by an
Inheritance Tax Appraiser as taxable, as was also, in another case, a
bequest to "Masonic Homes Endowment Board of the State of California"; and in each case, the bequest was exempted only after objection interposed by the Trustees of Masonic Homes of California,
and the presentation, by affidavit, of facts showing the creation, organization, and purpose of the fund, and that the sole beneficiary is the
Masonic Homes of California, a charitable corporation, with the requisite provision in its Articles of Incorporation with respect to the
ultimate disposition ~f the funds to a similar type fund in the event of the
liquidation, dissolution, or abandonment of the corporation; and
"WHEREAS said Endowment Fund was accumulated solely for the
purpose of the support and maintenance of the Homes conducted by
said Masonic Homes Corporation and the entire income is used by the
said Corporation for said purpose; now therefore,
"BE IT RESOLVED:
"That Grand Lodge does hereby formally and specifically, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 79 and 80 of the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge, confirm the legal title in and to the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California in the Masonic
Homes of California, a corporation, and declares that the said legal
title be and it hereby is, vested in said corporation subject only to the
trusts attaching to said fund, and Grand Lodge does hereby waive,
release, abandon and quit-claim to the Masonic Homes of California,
a corporation,. whatever legal title or color of legal title that may now
be vested in it, all in accordance with the constitution, ordinances, edicts
and resolutions of Grand Lodge and the provisions of the Articles of
Incorporation of said corporation."
Your Committee approves the Resolution, and, although there may
be no legal title in the Grand Lodge of California, believes the adoption
of the resolution will eliminate any confusion which may exist and
moves the adoption of this resolution.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence in the
·
above recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

AMENDMENT SECTION 150 (a}
Since Research Lodges pay no per capita taxes and are not responsible for the relief of their members or dependents because members of
these Lodges belong to and pay their taxes and liabilities through other
California Lodges, they should not be required to charge their members
the minimum annual dues. Therefore, Section 150 (a) of Ordinances
should be amended by adding the following:

260

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

"17. Research Lodges shall be exempt f.rom the.~inimum annual
dues requirem ent imposed by Section 251.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence in the
above recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

LODGE EXPEN DITUR ES FROM GENER AL FUND ·
Lod es should not be required to pay the expenses of the Public
SchoolsgWeek program , or the cost of proficiency ~~rtificates, or tht c~st
of trowels iven to newly raised Masons from their refres~ment un s.
These exp:nses should be charged to general funds. Sections 634, 636
and 637 of Edicts and Resolutions should be repe~led and there should
be added to Section 157 of Ordinan ces the following:
.
"The expendit ure of funds for any program required ·b y the
Grand Lodge, or the Grand Master, sha~~ be deemed to be a part
of the necessar y expenses of the Lodge.
.
The Committee on Jurisprud ence reported their concurrence m the
above recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

GRAND MASTE R'S RECOM MEND ATION S
The Grand Master made the following recommendations as to Committees:
(a) That the number of members on the. Co~mittee .on Char t ers be
increased to nine ( 9) to facilitate the Committee s work,
.
( b) That the Committee on Returns be eliminated because its reports
were a duplication of other reports;
..
.
( ) That a Special Committee on Foreign Recognition be continu~d
to s~dy and report on questions of fraternal relations with other jurisdictions.
The recommendations appear to be sound and shou ld be approved ·
Adopted .
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence. .

AMEN DMEN T OF SECTIO N 111
The requirements of Section 111 that each Lodge chartere d by Gr:n~
Lodge shall be constitut ed within sixty ( 60) days thereaf~erMr the C
ter be forfeited places a very difficult task on ~?~ G~~~ . aster.
ction should be amended by striking the word sixty m hne seven and
se
.. .
..
substituting the word ninety.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprud ence.

T:s

261

COMM ISSION ON REVISI ON OF ROSS DIGEST
A special commission to revise Ross Digest was appointe d by the
Grand Master and he recommended that the commission be continue d
for the ensuing Grand Lodge year. This program is very importan t to all
of us and the recommendation should be adopted.
Adopted .

SPANI SH LANGU AGE LODGES
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
. There was referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes a resolution authorizi ng the dispensa ting and charterin g of Lodges
to work in the Spanish language . Your Committee has studied this resolution on previous occasions, and this Grand Lodge has, at previous
Communications, voted against this proposal.
We find that there are several very serious problems in this proposal.
1st. There is the questio n as to whether or not these Lodges, if
formed, would continue. We now have two French language Lodges.
One had a membership of 117 in 1943 and now has a membership of 125,
a gain of 8 members in ten years. The other had a membership of 130 in
1943 and now has a membership of 118, a net loss of 12 members in ten
years.
We now have two German language Lodges. One had a membership
of 61 in 1943 and now has a membership of 55, a net loss of 6 members
in ten years. T~e other had a membership of 191 in 1943 and now has
a membership of 209, a net gain of 18 members in ten years.
We now have one Italian language Lodge. It had a membership of
356 in 1943 and now has a membership of 311, a net loss of 45 in ten
years.
These Lodges are all located in Los Angeles or San Francisco, where
the larger groups of these nationalities are located and where you would
expect them to draw the most new members, yet with two exceptions,
they have dropped in membership.
During this same period the membership in our English speaking
Lodges has increased from 129,511 in 1943, to 213,639 now. Your Committee wonders whether these foreign language Lodges will be able to
continue with this record of steadily falling membership in most instances.
Would not the same history follow a Spanish language Lodge? It has
been said that they would fare better because there are more Spanish
speaking people in Californ ia than there are of the other language s, but
how many would or could join our Lodges? Your Committee does not
· believe the story would be any different and believes that the difficulties
do not make the gamble worth while.

262

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

263

2nd If Spanish language Lodges were formed it would require the

SPECIAL COMMUN ICATION CALL

number of Inspectors, sufficiently conversant with both langua~esf to ~
able to instruct in Spanish. Such men are not easy to find, or if oun •
are not easily kept working. Look at the turnover in our Inspectors. 't
3rd. Masonry attempts to unite men. not to set them apart. W.o~ld 1
not be better if Spanish speaking people who could and would J 01 ~ us
joined our English speaking Lodges. as they do now, rather than wor ng
with their own language group?
For these reasons your Committees on Ritual a~d Policy and General
Purposes are unanimous in their disapproval of this proposal.
We. therefore. recommend that this resolution be not adopted.
.
The motion to adopt the original resolution was voted on by ~allot£
Upon the vote being tallied, the Grand Master announced the total o
"yes" votes was 696, and the total of "no" votes was 764. and the resolution had failed of adoption.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
recommendation of the Grand Master to amend Section 11 of the Constitution to provide that a special Communication of the Grand Lodge shall
be called upon the petition of twenty per cent of the Masters of our
chartered Lodges, instead of the request of fifteen Masters as the law
now reads.
A resolution signed by three Masters and making the same recommendation is also before the committee. The resolution reads as follows:
Resolved, that that portion of Article 1, Section 32, Ordinances of
the Grand Lodge of California, reading "and signed by the Masters of
at least fifteen chartered lodges" be changed to read "and signed by the
Masters of at least tw~nty per cent of the chartered lodges."
Under the present law it would be possible for the Masters of one
of our larger cities to request a special Communication for some reason
that could be purely local in nature and of no particular interest to the
Craft in general. whereas if the reason was of sufficient importance no
difficulty would be experienced in obtaining the signatures of twenty
per cent of the Masters of the chartered Lodges of the jurisdiction.
Your Committee concurs with the recommendation of the Grand
Master and also the resolution dealing with the same subject and recomJ
mends their approval by Grand Lodge.
The policy was adopted.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

adoptio~ of a ritual in Spanish and the selection of an Inspector. or a

CONTRIB UTIONS FOR
CALIFOR NIA MASONIC MEMORI AL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy ~nd Gene~al
Purposes that portion of the report of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple ·Committee in which it recommends that there be added to the
Ordinances. Section 100-B. to read as follows:
"In addition to the contributions to the Masonic ~omes a~d the
George Washingto n Masonic National Memorial. provided for m Sections· 100 and 100-A. each applicant for the Degrees shall acco~pany
the application with a contribution of nine dollars for the construction ~f
the California Masonic Memorial Temple: each Lodge shall transmit
such contribution to the Grand Secretary quarterly on the .fi~s~ ~ay of
November, February, May and August subsequent to the m1tiabon of
the candidate; the Grand Secretary shall pay the same ov~r to .the Gran~
Treasurer to be held by him subject to payment to the California Masonic
Memorial Temple fund upon order of the Grand Master. In the event
of death or denial of advancemen t before the candidate is ~aise~'. such
sum shall be returned to the lodge in the manner, and for d1spos1bo~ as
provided in the preceding section for the return of the Homes Contributions in a like event."
.
your Committee approves the recommendation and moves its adoption.
The policy was adopted.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

AMENDM ENT OF SECTION 126
Your. Committee on Policy and General Purposes has given careful
consideration to the proposal of Crocker Lodge No. 454 which seeks to
amend Section 126 of Ordinances to permit solicitations and lodge donations for statewide issues involving the protection and improvement of
our Public Schools System.
Section 126 presently reads as follows: "A Lodge shall not, by circular or otherwise, solicit pecuniary assistance from Lodges or Masons
of this or other jurisdictions, without the permission of the Grand Master. Nor shall any Mason circulate here a petition asking financial aid
for any matter whatever, not Masonic, however worthy it may be."
The amendment would add the following:
·
"with the exception of our Public Schools System.
"Public Schools welfare is MASONIC and a proper subject for discussion. Solicitation for individual donations and Lodge donations in any
Statewide issue involving the protection or improvement of our Public
Schools System, may be made."
Your Committee approves the policy involved with respect to solici-

264

RNI
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

d lod ge and
e outlined exc ept wit hin a tile
tati on of funds for the pur pos
excepting lodge donations.
pos e
app oin t a Committee for the pur
We feel tha t the Ma ste r should
the
to
al
be permitted to mail such materi
and tha t the Sec reta ry sho uld
be pre par ed by the Committee.
members of the lod ge as ma y
are
se modifications wh ich we feel
Following consideration of the
ges
sug
tain
cer
de
l proposal, we hav e ma
within the spi rit of the origina
ute
stit
sub
a
of
mittee for consideration
tions to the Jurisprudence Com
al and reclosophy of the original pro pos
resolution incorporating the phi
ich will
on
of the sub stit ute resoluti wh
ommend favorable consideration
be pre sen ted by tha t Committee.
orable
resolution as pro pos ed and fav
We recommend rejection of the
ted at a
resolution wh ich will be pre sen
consideration of the sub stit ute
late r time.
rudence.
Referred to Co mm itte on Jurisp

DISCUSSION OF PUBLIC QU

ES TIO NS

as pre discussion of public questions
Th e resolution relating to the
nua l
An
2
195
Ch as. Alb ert Ad am s at the
sen ted by Pas t Gra nd Ma ste r
hed
inis
unf
as
r, to this Communication
nd
Communication and car ried ove
Gra
the
of
spo nso r wit h the con sen t
business, was wit hdr aw n by the
Ma ster .

AP RO N PR ES EN TA TIO N RI

TU AL

Pur mittee on Policy and Ge ner al
Th ere wa s refe rred to you r Com
n
itio
add
an
al
te into an established ritu
poses a resolution to incorpora
pro
e
Th
.
ron
relating to the Lambskin Ap
."
to the pre sen tati on ceremony
ture
Lec
in
as the "M oth er Lode Lambsk
posed add itio n has been known
ritual
riat e for our ceremonies, but our
It is a fine lec ture and is app rop
pro per ly depre par atio n to memorize. and
is not sho rt and requires long
liver, as it now sta nds .
ure
Lodge desiring to use this lect
Yo ur Com mit tee feels tha t any
the
of
tion
ple
com
can did ate following the
d
could have it delivered to the
uire
req
r
the
fur
uld not be bur den ed wit h
De gre e but tha t our officers sho
memory work.
Comfor ma ny yea rs and you r Ritual
Ou r ritu al has been established
fus
con ion
cha nge s because cha nge s brin g
mittee has end eav ore d to avoid
you r Comicy and for the reasons sta ted
and in fur the ran ce of this pol
e "N O" on the resolution.
mittee recommends tha t you vot
l resolution wa s def eat ed.
Th e motion to ado pt the origina

..

A

LL OT
PR AfE R BEFORE BA
d

265

IN G

din .
Whereas, the dut y of ystan
g JU :.em ent on our feJiowman
and
dut
mn
sole
is a sac red and
one w ich sho uld command the
bes~. tha t is within us, and
d
times wh e
Whereas, the re are
a verse ballot creates
n
b
t
ca
n
bee
ing
hav
of
ion
of
pic
sus
e~ause 0 pet ty differences and
not being bas ed upon tru e Msason1c rea son s and
.. Wh
1 ,.
ments thi
ereas, the few mosec
uld require are
r~so utibon wo
s
.
u
of
t
ligh
the
in
nt
insignifica
a sincere allot
rmg
"N
47 the Mo nito r
tha t on
and
e Committee has
Th
ly ~.fter:
made a full and favorable re ~~e
ing be inserted:
low
f~l
e
;!
The Master calls up the
get s darkened, and the
e
ge.
Chaplain gives prayer."
.
.
r considerin th resol utio
of the opinion
are
n,
you r Committee, afte
e
~
tha t such a change in ballot· proce ure wo uld not accomplish the desired result. If a pet ty diffemg
petitioner is
dce betweex:i a bro the r and a
such tha t the ballot wo uld b;en
yer wo uld
pra
a
e
verse, we o not believ
exe rt the controlling influence.a
Committee doe s not b eI"ieve the lodge should be
Furthermore, the
lot.
bal
a
to
r
prio
ed
ken
dar
s tha t if a lod h a problem in reg ard to bal lotfeel
tee
Th e Commit
from th M ge as
tion
Ing, tha t an admoni
e bro the r des ign ate d by
woulde be asfter or som
ng
loti
bal
eflt
him, in reg ard to
ben
r
ate
gre
o
.
Th c m1. ttee recom'mends tha t ou vo "N0 ,, .
Resolution.
om
e
this
on
~e
Y
Th e motion to ado pt the origina 1 reso1ution wa s defeated.

at

O~~~~~r~~r:.u!f ~t;~:1~ed

P~ge ~f

rod Th.

OT IN G
ME TH OD OF BA LL
~

t d b
been p
A resolution has
Pas t Ma ste rs of Red ond o
en e y uve
r~s
p
328
No
d
ge
Lod
ch
i
Bea
ens
ext
an
14
g
osm
rop
·
. ve amen ment to Section
lot·
bal
to
tive
rela
ion
itut
mCo
r
of our Co nst
you
n.
tio
ica
os m~ m a com~u?
mittee on Pol icy and Ge ner al Purp hes is of the opm1on tha t considerable
de
ma
be
ld
improvement cou
in our
'~n t e 1.resent method of balloting
communication. We believe t':f
feasbe
ci:1~le~e ~nge m~s.t .be such as ton as well
ible for those ma tter s upon wh~
ma y be di:i;eod~1v1s1on of opinio
as those upon wh!ch this house
asc erta .
Wh en the re is a division the
mment of wh ere the true ma Jority lies would jus tify the t'.
t fact, but a
:n::~:~ry to ascertai~ tha
o different
method of voting wh en the re i~m
Tw
Y sho uld be rapid.
methods are not desirable.
. G
t the in
t
We recommend, the refo rethetha
'ticom1;~ ran.d Ma ste r app oin
ibil
poss
dy
stu
to
tee
mit
thme
t
a special com
sen
pre
~ng
nex t annu~l es o im~rov
ods and tha t the y rep ort to the
communication.
d.
pte
ado
Re~ommendation
l resolutio b 1 'd on the table until the
A motion tha t the orignina
vailed. n e a1
pre
atio
nic
mu
1954 ann ual com

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

267

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

266

SOJOURNING MASONS
The Committee on Sojourners ( whfch term is used relative.to .M~s~ns
residing in California but whose membership is in anoth~r 1unsdict10~
and has nothing to do with the organization of Masons m the Arme
Forces using the same name) has recommended:
( 1 ) That the Committee be continued; ( 2) That copies of what t~~
Committee calls "assists" be forwarded to the Masters of Lodges wit
a letter from the Grand Master, requesting a written annual ~eport on
sojourners' activities in their lodges, and ( 3) That a lettMer be issuefd ~
aste~s o .t e
the Grand Master giving "his encouragement to the
Lodges" and expressing hi.s desire ~.hat they se~ as.ide ~?e meeting mght
during the year to be designated as Sojourners Night.
your Committee is heartily in favor of every legitimate phase of a
eneral program to interest Masons of other jurisdictions who have
~aken up residence in California to become affiliated with our Lodges.
The Grand Master in 1950 initiated efforts on this matter by a. lett~
to the Masters calling attention to the large number of non-California
Masons residing in our midst and also to the possibilities of dual membership. Grand Masters Paulsen and Dr~peau further advanced the
cause. Our efforts in this field should be continued.
However, we believe th~t enough annual reports are prese~tl.y reuired from our Lodges. We are opposed to further paper work if it can
~ avoided. We recognize that there might be a Master her~ or there
who will do nothing if he does not have to report, but who might mak~
some effort if he was required to report, but we do not feel that a
Lodges should be compelled to report to overcome the letharg~ of a few·
Efforts given because of such leverage would probably be frmtless ,any.
,
way.
Similarly. we do not believe that the holding ~fa Sojourners Night
should carry the mandate implicating a request fro~ the Grand Master
that it be held. We have several other mandatory mghts now.
There is always the risk that a mandate for observ~?~e m~y res~lt ·
in a program that is merely perfunctory. We believe that nights sho~ d
be left to the discretion and ingenuity of the Master. After all, thd affibad
tion of sojourning Masons is of primary benefit to the l.ocal. ~ ge an
if it wishes to overlook this legitimate means of advancing its interests.
that is a concern of its membership.
We therefore move: That the Committee on Sojourners b~ con~inued
for the ensuing year. that said Committee be directed to continue its efforts on the basis of voluntary cooperation from our Lodges, that no
mandatory reports be required from the Lodges and that no mandatory
sojourners' night be required.
1\ ...1--•o....1

GRAND LODGE REPRESENTATIVES
The Grand Master requested that the Committee on Policy and General Purposes study the matter of appointing and receiving representatives to, and from other Grand Lodges.
Probably but a small percentage of our membership had any idea
that there were such representatives, so inactive has been the system in
this jurisdiction. The Chairman of this Committee happens to be the
official representative of the Grand Lodge of Egypt. We would have to
search our archives to ascertain whether there are still representatives of
other jurisdictions in our midst.
The situation is slightly more active in other jurisdictions. When
some of our sister jurisdictions open their annual communications there
is a roll call of jurisdictions. Each representative answers and steps to
the altar and when the call is completed the Grand Master speaks words
of greeting and compliment and one of the representatives replies for the
group. It is a brotherly affair and kindly gesture. It is worthy of the
effort of the Grand Master of this jurisdiction in complying with the request of another jurisdiction for such an appointment, when a vacancy
occurs.
As we read Section 14 of our Constitution, the appointment of representatives by the Grand Master is not required, it is discretionary. The
section states that among the powers of the Grand Master, he is granted
the authority to appoint and receive representatives. Probably the system of representatives is on the way out, but there are some Grand
Lodges which desire such designations. If we can comply with their requests, it is W'ell and no harm is done. If we must say we have discontinued our former policy in that regard they may not understand.
We recommend therefore, that it be the policy of this Grand Lodge
to designate, upon request, and to receive, upon request, representatives
to, and of other jurisdictions.
Adopted.

PUBLICATIONS BY CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS
Under date of November 20, 1952, the Grand Master issued a letter
to the lodges of this jurisdiction on the general subject of Masonic publications. There has been referred to your Committee the following quotation from that letter:
"Another matter which needs consideration is the use of publications for charitable purposes. It seems desirable and proper
that publications whose entire proceeds are devoted to charity,
and which are now banned under the existing regulations of the
Publications Committee, should have some relief.
"After much contemplation, the following rule would seem to
be entirely within the framework of the law.
"Publications whose sole purposes are for charitable assist-

268

I·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ance shall present to the Grand Master their source of revenue
and list all expenses and items expended for promotion. The
Grand Master may. in such cases, grant sanction upon the condition that the net proceeds of the publication, after allowing reasonable expense and promotion, shall be delivered to the charity in
whose name the publication has been published.
"This rule would allow certain publications who have always
operated on an ~thical basis to continue their very fine contribu ..
tion to humanity."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes finds itself in accord with the statements contained in the quotation.
We move that it be the policy of this Grand Lodge to permit the
sanction, under Section 127 of our Ordinances, of publications whose
sole purposes are for charitable assistance, under the conditions imposed
by the Committee on Publications.
Adopted.

PUBLICATI ON OF LODGE TRESTLEBO ARDS
Under date of February 15, 1953, the Special Committee on Publications promulgated the following new regulation:
" ( 1 ) The express sanctions heretofore granted certain publications
are modified to permit the publication of news bulletins or
trestleboards containing dates of meetings, other general infor..
mation, lists of Lodge officers and places of meeting in accordance with the Grand Master's circular letter of November 20,
1952, and not otherwise."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes finds itself in
accord with this modification.
We move that it be the policy of this Grand Lodge to permit the
publication of news bulletins or trestleboards containing dates of meeting, other general information, lists of Lodge officers and places of meeting. in publications which have been approved pursuant to Section 127
of our Ordinances.
Adopted.
At 12:03 P .M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 P.M.

269

AFTERNOO N SESSION-T hursday, October 15, 1953
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 P.M., the Grand Master presid~
ing.

CONTRIBU TIONS TO LOCAL CHARITIES
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 presents a Resolution to amend Sec. 159 of
Ordinances by adding thereto, after the words "fraternal intercourse"
the following:
"and in its discretion, may expend a portion of said monies authorized by this Section, to make contributions to various local organizations
soliciting for charitable, general health and community welfare purposes."
From time immemorial. it has been the law of the various Masonic
Jurisdictions that Masonic charity be confined to strictly Masonic purposes, that is, for the relief of Masons and their families.
The proposal to expand the scope of our charity work and take the
monies for such purposes only from the entertainment funds of the
lodge adds nothing to the basic principle involved. Such a change in
our Ordinances would open the door for solicitations from every quarter.
The lodge would have no control over the final disposition of the monies
so allocated, and it might find that such funds were ultimately being
channeled to purposes contrary t~ our Masonic interest, or to the interests of some of the members of the lodge. Further, the lodge would
become the target for each member's particular non-Masonic pet charity.
This would probably result in conflicts and internal strivings for the
limited lodge funds which might be available for such outside charities.
On the other hand, we take the view that so far as the worthy nonMasonic charities are concerned, the proposed amendment might work
adversely to their interests. Presently there is nothing to prevent such
charities from soliciting individually those who are members of the
lodge for personal donations from them in their personal capacities as
members of the community. The effect of the proposed amendment
would be to present a situation where a hesitant solicited citizen might
avoid making such personal donation by saying. "I am making my donation to you through my lodge." This result is not theoretical. for those
familiar with community welfare work have frequently met similar
replies from members of other organizations which do make organiza..
tional donations.
The fundamental basis of the entire Masonic organization of the
world is fraternal intercourse and fraternal charity, which means limiting
the charity to members of the Craft and their families. The individual
member of the fraternity has joined Masonry on the basis of this historical record. He is subject to the duties and responsibilities, and in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

270

271

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

time of need, he is entitled to the benefits and privileges of such a
philisophy of charity. The individual Mason has a real interest in the
funds of the lodge, whether those funds happen to be General or Refreshment monies. All are subject to the demands of Masonic charity.
He has a right to have those funds expended only upon the basis of
historical Masonic law and custom, rather than upon the basis of the
majority vote of a small portion of the lodge membership who happen
to be in attendance at a particular stated meeting.
We believe, therefore, that departure from our ancient law and custom would be a serious error. and therefore recommend that the Resolution be not adopted.
A motion to adopt the resolution was defeated.

HAWAIIAN LODGES AND THEIR SUPERVISION
The Grand Master has made certain recommendations in relation
to the administration and supervision of lodges located in the Territory
of Hawaii. While these recommendations are severally presented in
his message, they are all related and are therefore here being discussed
collectively in the report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The over-all picture of Masonry in the Hawaiian Islands is of great
satisfaction to the Grand Lodge of California. There Masonry flourished, even before the establishment of Masonic lodges within the
continental border of our California Jurisdiction. The initial spirit and
enthusiasm of those early Masons in the Sandwich Islands has continued uninterrupted and undiminished through the years and Masonry
is not only on a very high plane, but the fraternity as such has an important and proper place in the general culture of the community, and
among the profane is deservedly highly regarded as a noble fraternal
and charitable organization.
For more than one hundred years the proper administration of
Masonic affairs in the Islands has been generally satisfactory. The
flexibility of our Masonic laws, and the authority these laws grant to
our Grand 'Master has permitted the succeeding Grand Masters to
adjust and re-adjust the mode of conducting the relationship of these
constituent lodges to the Grand Lodge of California. Despite the overwater distance between the Territory and the Mainland and the emergencies arising directly from two all encompassing world-wide wars the
relationship has been maintained on a most creditable basis.
It is admitted that th~re have occasionally been difficulties of communication, delays in contact and instances of inefficiency during period.
of conflicts. For short periods thereafter there have been some instances
where the technical administration of a lodge and proficiency in Ritual
has in some measure deteriorated, but it has never been critical and we

~a~~f ha~ sMimi~arl exdp~riences in local lnspectoral districts even on the

a l orma am an m such trying circumstances.
Several ~r~nd Masters, and at least two Grand Lecturers all of
whom
during their term of ffi
.
eriou had v1s1ted
'd
· the Islands
·
o ce, h ave• given
s d h s cons1 erahon to our relationship with our brethren of th P ·fi
an
ave from time to time offered suggestions to the Gra d .;:,dac1 c,
the fraternal relationship
1 ua an a ministration.
•
. The·~~mbe~ of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes who
is now a ressmg you and who makes this report on the heh 1
.
was in the Islands in his official capacity as
an a so ater as Grand Master. As previous Grand Lod e P
.
will show, he formally presented to Grand Lodge re
g
tl
l"k h
commen at1ons not
i1ea y un i e t ose now presented for consideration by our Grand
aster, and also suggested by our present Grand Lecturer 0th
present m~.mbers of your now reporting Committee have also. been :~
the Hawauan Islands duri~g their respective terms of office as Grand
M~ster'. They. too, from time to time, have reflected upon the matter
which,
of the over-all
picture of Island Masonry, is
. not at
ll t b m lthe light
d
.
a f o. e ~ asse as presenting a relatively critical picture nor difficulties
o pn~e importance. It is true that at times a lodge secreta
lackin
exp;ience and proper source of authoritive information, or ;;;t having
rea y
to
Brother exceedingly proficient in the Ritual .
executed
their
duties
temporarily in less than the usual
h · h · d · bl
me t'icu lous manner "'.' ic is .e~ira e. However, Masonry fundamentall has not
materially or spmtually suffered by these intermittent lapses. y
your C~mmittee feels that the authority given to the Grand Master
of Masons is ample and that our laws provide a flexibility to meet
emergency that may a~ise. Furthermore, we believe that it woulda~~
a grave e~ror to freeze mto law a method of operation, instruction, and
control
· 1an d constituent
·
lodges. different from that used in relation to the M am

wR~tys landdmedan~ ~f im~roving

p~oficiengcye ~

Co;~itt~e,

Gran~ t::t:~~~

acces~

dro~eedmgs

~

hav~

It is not a good policy to say to future Grand Masters just who ho

~~en i°r 7~en (if ~t _all) ~epresentatives of great proficiency either :

ua or o ge administration should be sent to our brethren.
Here on th~ M~inland the present system of instruction by the Grand
ecretary holding m various places in California schools of instructio
for ch·
lodge secretaries.
n
te
h · I and. the present method used by the G ran d Lecturer
;
~ng t e ritua and instructing the Inspectors, has been exceedin I
e
We propose that this Mainland plan, with less frequent vrsitations, be adopted as a Grand Lodge policy. With this support
h
Grand Master will feel more free to impose upon Grand Lodg'eetahc'
expense.
is
andWe hde~ire to suggest that by reason of custom and the hospitality
ent usiasm of our brothers in the Islands, visitations by Mainland
S

~ctive.

273

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Masons going in their official capacities, have resulted in receptions and
attentions which have become burdensome upon the Island lodges'
finances and placing time-consuming responsibilities upon many individual brethren out there.
In the event that a Grand Master does send a representative to the
Islands. let it be understood that he is not to expect that the brothers
of the Island lodges make any attempt at social functions, receptions,
etc., and that all Masonic gatherings on these occasions be limited to
the Masonic business at hand.
1
With these admonitions and suggestions, we recommend that the
proposal of the Grand Master be not enacted into law.
Especially and severally, we recommend:
1. That the recommendation of the Grand Master that a deputy
Grand Master for the Islands be disapproved;
2. That the recommendation of the Grand Master that Grand Lodge
fix jurisdiction or number of Inspector Districts in the Islands be disapproved;
3. That the recommendatio·n of the Grand Master that the Grand
Lecturer or an Assistant Grand Lecturer be sent to the Islands at least
once every four years be disapproved; and
4. That the recommendation of the Grand Master that the Grand
Secretary or the Assistant Grand Secretary visit the Islands at least
once every ten years be disapproved.
A motion to approve the recommendation made by the Grand Master
relative to Hawaiian Lodges and their supervision failed of adoption.

the resolution and its codification is before this Communication for our
action.
Before us at this Communication there is also a resolution similar in
purpose but proposing to accomplish that purpose in a different manner.
That resolution amending application question 13 is ineptly drawn
and has in it some typographical errors as well, but the substance of it
is to provide that a Candidate promise that he will pass a satisfactory examination in the Candidates Lecture of the Third Degree before applying
for any degree in a body or Order, the prerequisite of which is that the
person be a Master Mason.
Your Committee is in accord with the policy and method of accomplishing the purpose, as presented by this resolution. It should be pointed
out that the "sanctions" for failure to learn the Third Degree Lecture
are far less severe than those proposed by the 1952 resolution. It is to be
noted that if the 1952 resolution became our law, the newly created
Master Mason could not get a receipt for dues until he had passed his
examination in the Third Degree. Until that time he could not visit
other lodges nor in emergencies unquestionably establish that he was a
Master Mason, . In this day when many young men are compelled to
travel in foreign countries, under circumstances over which they have no
, control. the penalty of the proposed 1952 resolution is an exceedingly
severe one and is in our humble opinion still undesirable, even though the
Grand Lodge in 1952 voted a contrary policy.
The theory of the present resolution accomplishes the purpose without inflicting a severe penalty for failure to learn the Third Degree Lecture.
It should ·be pointed out that while the 1953 resolution refers to taking
degrees in the "collateral Masonic bodies" it is not directed toward them
nor will it, except under very rare circumstances, effect the disqualification of their prospective Candidate.
· If a Master Mason has been able to learn the Candidates Lecture of
the First and Second Degrees (and he has proven himself in that respect) • he will have no difficulty completing his proficiency in the Third
Degree Lecture in the one year's time. If he is traveling in foreign countries and is so located that he is able to petition for degrees in one of the
collateral bodies he can arrange under the usual procedure for his coaching and examination in the Third Degree work. On the other hand, if
he is in our outposts his possibility of getting either instructions or further
additional degrees of Masonry are nil. But in any event, during all the
time the Brother is a Master Mason in good standing and entitled to
visit any Masonic Lodge because he has his dues card and is proficient
in sufficient of the work to identify himself.
For these reasons we support the principal of the 1953 resolution and ·
still stand opposed to the policy of the 1952 resolution.

272

MANDATORY PROFICIENCY
During the One Hundred and Third ( 1952) Annual Communication
of this Grand Lodge a resolution was introduced, the substance of which
was to require that a Candidate pass a satisfactory examination in the
Candidates Lecture of the Third Degree before receipt for dues could
be issued to him.
This resolution was referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes, which Committee reported as follows:
"Your Committee is in accord with the object of the proponent
of this resolution to increase the number of brethren who will be
proficient in the work of the Third Degree, but it is not in accord
with the policy of the resolution. We recommend that the resolution be not adopted." (Proceedings, 1952, page 316.)
The report of the Committee was not adopted, this indicating that
Grand Lodge was in accord with the policy of the resolution and it was
referred to the Committees on Ritual and also on Jurisprudence, for
drafting of the necessary section of Masonic Law. Time would not per•
mit that committee action before the close of that Communic~tion and

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

We recommend:
1. The adoption of the codification of the 1953 proposal as now written up by the Jurisprudence Committee and hereafter to be presented by
them for adoption of this Grand Lodge;
2. That the codification of the proposal of 1952 on this subject, as
now prepared by the Committee on Jurisprudence, be not adopted.
The majority of the members of the Committee on Jurisprudence concur iri these recommendations.
The Jurisprudence Committee then presented the resolution adopted
as to policy at the 1952 Communication with the recommendation that
it be not adopted as legislation. The motion to adopt the resolution was
defeated.
The Jurisprudence ·Committee then recommended as follows:
Resolved: That question 13 of Section 223 of Ross Digest be amended
to read as follows:
13. Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any degree
or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or organization, the prerequisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason. until you have
given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge, that
you are entirely proficient and well qualified in the Candidate's Lecture
of the Degree of Master Mason and in no event within twelve months
.
after you have received the Degree of Master Mason?
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

MASONIC INFORMATION

274

SUBVERSIVES INELIGIBLE
Under Deci~ion No. 14, the Grand Master held that membership in
the Communist Party constituted unMasonic conduct and that such a
person could "be tried therefor if the Lodge membership was obtained
after his Communistic membership had ceased."
Past Masters Burch, Helbach, Swank and Visger offer a Resolution
which makes one who has ever been a Communist ineligible to receive
the degrees of Masonry, or retain his Masonic membership if already a
Mason.
Inasmuch as the Resolution and the Decision apply to the same subject, we choose to consider them together. It is the recommendation of
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes that the policy behind
the Grand Master's Decision and that behind the Resolution should both
be approved. The language of the Resolution is broader than the limited
field covered by the Grand Master's Decision.
· There is no place in Masonry for persons who have a general philosophy of changing the form of our government by other than constitutional
methods, and that should be applied whether the individual be classed as
a Communist, Fascist or any other name. We. therefore, recommend that
the proposed Sec. 210.01 of Edicts and Ordinances be adopted.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

___ __...
.....__

275

The. Committee on Masonic Information submits its 1953 Report and
presents for consideration a document of 99 pages, the document being
entitled "707Questions and Answers about Freemasonry."
The majority of the members of that Committee recommend that the
document be printed, that three copies be distributed to each Lodge, that
the balance of the editions be sold at cost to members of lodges and that
$5,000.00 be added to the Grand Secretary's printing appropriation for
this purpose.
The preparation of this document has been primarily the work of
Brother Henry Coil, Chairman of the Committee on Masonic Information. It represents a tremendous amount of research and a judicious selection of subjects that are very interesting to the members of our fraternity. From a superficial examination of this lengthy document we marvel
that any brother in these days has the time, the energy and the tenacity
to do all things necessary to presenting the material in its present form
and we do compliment and commend him for this work.
.Two things stand out in this matter: ( 1 ) that the document is presented at Grand Lodge and referred to your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes only after the opening of this Annual Communication
and at a time when your now reporting Committee is burdened with the
all time consuming problems of considering almost every proposal and
recommendation presented to Grand Lodge: ( 2) The recommendations
of the Committee on Masonic Information are supported by the signatures of two of its members and formally disapproved by the third member of that Committee.
Certainly the importance of the document requires under these circumstances, the studious consideration of at least every member of the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes and obviously that has not
been possible.
Several weeks prior to the 1952 Communication of this Grand Lodge.
a similar document, identically entitled, was informally submitted to the
then members of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. At
that time, in our limited time and our admittedly limited knowledge of
Masonic history and custom, as related to the subjects covered in the
documents, we found material which to us appeared to be in error and
many matters upon which we knew Masonic History disagreed, sometimes quite heatedly. While our knowledge was not sufficient to cover
the scope of all the material presented it was sufficient that we determined
that it was not proper for the Grand Lodge of California to put the stamp
of official authenticity on the document in that form.
The majority of the Committee on Masonic Information say that our
notations as to the 1952 proposed publication have been corrected and
that it is now ready for printing, but brethren, not doubting their word,

276

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

we have not had the time to consider other parts of the material within
that document.
Aside from this and as a matter of fundamenta l policy we seriously
doubt the wisdom of putting the stamp of official authenticity upon any
document dealing with matters of this kind, especially where none of us,
including even Brother Coil. have access to the original source materials
that are essential to the proper conclusions as to Masonic customs, history, etc. '.fhough we did sponsor and publish "100 Years of Freemasonry in California," we are not and should not become publishers.
This particular document, "707 Questions and Answers about Freemasonry," has apparent value. It has a monetary value to Brother Coil,
if he desires to avail himself of it outside the scope of a formal Grand
Lodge Publication: on the other hand. it has a value as a basis of research
by those members of the fraternity who have the time and interest to review and search out and probably confirm the conclusion of the majority
of the Committee on Masonic Information.
With this thought in mind and with further compliments to Brother
Coil we recommend that the Grand Lodge of California do not publish
the document. Further, that if Brother Coil approves. we would recommend to him and our Research Lodges that this document be made available to them for use in their activities. For them it will be of great value;
it will not only furnish for them avenues of study but also act as a guide
to those matters which are of a general interest to the individual member
of the Craft.

mittee, leaving to the Committee on Finance the recommendation as to
the amount of the appropriatio n.
A motion to publish the 707 Questions was defeated.
The request for appropriatio n was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The motion to continue the Committee was adopted.

Through their activities the attention of the members of the Fraternity will be directed to a comprehension of the over-all history, the formations and the developmen t of our society, its objects and its purposes.
True, the dissemination of that material among the members of our Craft
will not be so widespread and will be slower in reaching them but we will
not be faced with the matter of putting the seal of officialdom upon historic controversy on Masonic matters without the ability or opportunity
to check the original historical source material.
We recommend that portion of the report of the Committee on Masonic Information wherein they request the publication of "707 Questions and Answers about Freemasonr y" be not adopted, and we again
importune Brother Coil and his Committee to make that document available to our Research Lodges. as a real and substantial contribution to
l.\iasonry.
.

Your Committee, to which has been referred the report of the Special
Committee on Oversize Lodges, has carefully considered the report, and
wish to commend the Committee on the research done and on the information developed. This information will be made available to all
lodges through the printed proceedings.
The committee suggested recommendations under the heading "Conclusions" and were not in Resolution form. The first two items actually
endorsed actions taken by this Grand Lodge during the last Annual
Communication, and as such, no policy is involved.
Suggestion No. 3 reads as follows:
"We propose the following suggestions, any one of which may be
adopted, with or without amendments, and the necessary legislation to
put same in effect at this Communication:
" (A) All lodges shall be limited to an annual net gain as follows:
Those having a membership of over 1000 members, one per cent of its
total membership as of July 31 of the preceding year: membership of 7511000 members, two per cent; membership of 501-750, three per cent."
Your committee feels that placing a numerical limit on the size o~ any
lodge either by curtailing the number of petitions per year or by suggest-

The report of the Committee on Masonic Information also includes
a recommendation that the Committee be continued for the ensuing year
and that they be allocated the sum of $500.00 for committee expenses.
We concur in the policy and recommend continuance of the Tum-

277

AUTHOR ITY TO ORGANIZ E
A NON-PRO FIT CORPOR ATION
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommended the
adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved: That in pursuance of the approved plan for the
building, maintenance and operation of Memorial Temple. the
Memorial Temple Committee be and hereby is authorized to arrange for the creation and continuance of a non-proflt corporation,
together with all the powers of a p.on-profit corporation, to build.
maintain, and operate, and hold title to the property of said Temple, including among other things the acquisition and collection
of all funds and contribution s therefor, and to do all acts and
things necessary and advisable in the premises.
Adopted unanimously.

OVERSIZ E LODGES

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ing that only certain individuals may apply is unwise in that an applicant
should be allowed to pick a lodge of his own choice without limitation
except to be able to qualify, and your committee therefore disapproves
suggestion "A".
Paragraphs "B" through "F" read as follows:
" ( B) Provide that no lodge shall confer the Second or Third Degrees
upon the same applicant at an interval less than four weeks from the time
of conferring the preceding degree.
" ( C) Provide that no lodge shall confer the Third Degree upon more
than one applicant at any one meeting, nor confer the first Degree or
the Second Degree upon more than three applicants at any one meeting.
" ( D) Provide that no lodge shall confer any Degrees upon more
than three applicants at any one meeting.
" ( E) Provide that no lodge shall confer the Third Degree upon more
than one applicant at any one meeting.
" ( F) Provide that no lodge shall engage in the conferring of Degrees
oftener than once every two weeks."
Sub-paragraphs "B" through "F" all deal with placing legislative
road block by further limiting the number of degrees conferred at a single
meeting, fixing a time limit between degrees for each applicant and limiting the conferring of the Third Degree to one Degree per meeting.
Your committee maintains that to do all this is now within the power
of the Master of a lodge, and we subscribe to the idea that the lodge
should be run by the officers and members. The suggested legislation,
in our opinion, would possibly retard the natural growth of some small
lodges, and would certainly complicate the work of record keeping by
the Secretary. We therefore disapprove the preceding suggestions.
Paragraph "G" reads as follows:
" ( G) Provide that lodges hereafter instituted shall be limited to a
membership of five hundred, except that applications may be received at
any time from the sons, brothers, sons-in-law or nephews of the members."
The same comment given under" A" applies to "G".
Your committee concludes that the most effective and practical way
to control the "Degree Mill" or oversized lodges is through the officers
and members themselves. This can be accomplished by encouraging the
formation of new lodges. Brethren who have moved to rural areas, and
who are members of oversize lodges, should be encouraged to dimit to a
neighborhood lodge. The construction of new lodge halls should be encouraged. Experience indicates that where meeting places are made
available, the formation of new lodges will follow, especially in metropolitan areas.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes suggests that this
special committee be discharged as recommended in this item ( 4): that
legislation suggested therein be not adopted, but that the report be rec-

ommended for study by the officers of the so-called oversize lodges, with
the suggestion that they bring the content of the report to the attention
of their members, thus informing them of the attitude of this Grand
Lodge.
We move that the report ~e not adopted.
A motion to adopt the recommendation presented by the Special Committee was defeated.

279

ADVERTISING IN LODGE BULLETINS
One of the recommendations of the Committee on Publications was
referred to this Committee, namely, that Section 127 be amended by adding thereto the following language:
"This Section does not apply to the official bulletin or trestleboard of a Lodge or any appendant body in which advertising
space is sold to cover _cost of printing and circulating provided
that the nature and contents of advertising be not offensive to
Grand Lodge regulations."
We approve the policy of permitting the sale of advertising space
in the official bulletin or trestleboard of a lodge to the extent of covering
the cost of printing and circulating such bulletin or trestleboard, if a
lodge so desires. We understand such to be one of the purposes of the
proposed amendment.
we understand another purpose of the proposed amendment to be to
similarly raise the presently asserted prohibition on official bulletins of
other Orders and groups having as a requisite to membership .Masonic
affiliation.
If this Grand Lodge has the power to tell the Eastern Star, Knights
Templar, Scottish Rite and other groups that they cannot carry any advertising in their official bulletins, we do not believe that it should be our
policy to assert that power as to advertising which is not offensive to
Grand Lodge regulations.
We, therefore, also approve as a matter of policy this phase of the
proposed amendment.
A motion to adopt the above was defeated.

PUBLIC LIABILITY COVERAGE
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to whom was referred the Report of the Special Committee on Insurance on Public Liability Coverage of Grand Lodge and the constituent lodges and temple
associations, has had the same under consideration, and begs leave to
report as follows:
Your Committee is of the firm opinion that Grand Lodge and our
constituent lodges should be protected so far as financial losses are concerned by such insurance as may be available, and at reasonable cost.

280

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The Insurance Committee has apparently thoroughly investigated the
various aspects of the situation, and the cost of such insurance as compared to the danger of loss, and your Committee concurs in the flndings
of that committee, and recommends the adoption of the report and the
action there recommended.
At the request of the Grand Secretary, the consideration of the matter
was continued until the next Annual Communication.

RESOLUTION TO TRANSFER TITLE
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
Whereas, the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California has purchased the following described
real property, to wit:
"All that certain real property situate, lying and being in the City
and County of San Francisco, State of California, described as follows,
to wit:
PARCEL ONE:
BEGINNING at the point of intersection of the southerly line of
California Street and the westerly line of Taylor Street; running
thence westerly along the southerly line of California Street 137
feet and 6 inches; thence at a right angle southerly 137 feet and
6 inches; thence at a right angle westerly 25 feet: thence at a right
angle southerly 137 feet and 6 inches to the northerly line of Pine
Street: thence at a right angle easterly along the northerly line of
Pine Street 25 feet: thence at a right angle northerly 75 feet;
thence at a right angle easterly 137 feet and 6 inches to the westerly line of Taylor Street; and thence at a right angle northerly
along the last mentioned line 200 feet to the point of beginning.
Being portion of 50 VARA BLOCK No. 219.
PARCEL Two:
BEGINNING at a point on the southerly line of California Street,
distant thereon 137 feet and 6 inches westerly from the westerly
line of Taylor Street; running thence westerly along said line of
California Street 137 feet and 6 inches: thence at a right angle
southerly 137 feet and 6 inches; thence at a right angle easterly
137 feet and 6 inches: thence at a right angle northerly 137 feet
and 6 inches to the point of beginning.
Being portion of 50 VARA BLOCK No. 219."
Whereas. the legal title of said property is temporarily held by the
California Pacinc Title Insurance Company. a corporation, for the use
ax:id benefit of said Grand Lodge:
Now, therefore, be it Resolved: That ARTHUR M. WARREN, Grand
Master of Masons in California, FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Grand Treasurer
of said Grand Lodge, LLOYD E. WILSON, its Grand Secretary, EDWARD .
H. SIEMS, Chairman of its Memorial Building Committee, and CLAUDE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

281

H. MORRISON, Chairman of its Committee on Finance, or a majority
thereof, acting jointly, be and they are hereby authorized on behalf of
said Grand Lodge to direct said California Pacinc Title Insurance Company to convey the title to said above real property to any person, firm,
corporation, association or other legal entity:
Resolved Further: That said direction aforesaid shall be given over
the signatures of said persons above named, or the majority thereof. acting jointly, and that said Title company shall not be required to look
behind said direction or to see to the application of any proceeds or benefits derived from said conveyance but may rely solely upon said direction;
Be it further Resolved: That a successor in office of any of the persons
above named shall likewise be empowered to act in the place and stead
of the particular person succeeded, and the certificate of the Grand Secretary over his signature accompanied ·b y an imprint of the seal of said
Grand Lodge, identifying the signatures of the persons above named and
the fact of successions, if any, and the signatures of d~e successors, upon
any document of direction to said Title company, shall be sufficient in
the premises:
Be it further Resolved: That this resolution shall remain in full force
and effect until repealed by resolution of the Grand Lodge of California,
and said California Pacinc Title Insurance Company may rely and act
thereupon until such time as a copy of such revoking resolution, certified
as aforesaid by said Grand Secretary, is delivered into its hands.
The resolution was concurred in the by the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Adopted t.tnanimously.

WHITE HOUSE STONE
The Grand Secretary read the f91lowing letter as received from the
Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, and presented to this Grand
Lodge the stone referred to ther~in:
"Most Worshipful Sir:
"Through the good offices of an ambassador from the Grand
Lodge of the District of Columbia, which is Masonically supreme
in the Capital of the Nation, I place in your hands a stone taken
from the walls of the White House during its just-completed rebuilding.
"A sufficient number of these stones, each with a Masonic
symbol upon it, was discovered to give one to each Grand Lodge
in the United States.
"These evidences of the number of members of the Craft who
built the President's official residence so intimately aligns Freemasonry with the formation and the founding of our Government
that I believe your Grand Lodge will cherish this link between the

282

283

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fraternity and the Government of the Nation, of which the
White House is a symbol.

if the criminal act was not a felony, but a misdemeanor, or where it was
a felony, and after receiving notice for automatic expulsion, the accused
demands a masonic trial, the act or acts committed by the accused should
be charged, rather than the fact that he was convicted of the offense
charged. It is the conduct indulged in by the accused which may constitute unmasonic conduct, not the fact that he has been convicted on a
criminal charge. To charge the conviction, rather than the ates of misconduct, is to char$le the consequence of the misconduct rather than the
misconduct itself. For example, a specification charging as follows:
"That on or about the 2nd day of June, 1953, the said
John Jones struck and beat George Black with a
club.",
would be a proper specification, because it charges what Jones did, but
to word the specification as follows: ·
"That on or about the 2nd day of June, 1953, the said
John Jones was convicted of the offense of battery in
the Municipal Court of the City of Los Angeles.",
does not charge a masonic offense. The reason for this is obvious. If
charged with having been convicted, the accused brother can neither
deny nor disprove such conviction; but if charged with the conduct
which resulted in the conviction, he might be able to show, and in all
events should be given the right to show, that in spite of the conviction
in court, he was not, in fact, guilty of the misconduct charged.
Your committee notes that trial commissioners sometimes fail to
vote separately on each of the specifications, and separately on the
charqe of unmasonic conduct. Some trial commissions have not voted
at all on the specifications, but have proceeded at the conclusion of the
taking of evidence, to vote only on the charge of unmason{c conduct:
this failure to vote separately is in violation of the plain provisions, stated
in the plainest language, in Section 322, Constitution and Ordinances.
In one of the cases which we are reporting in this omnibus report for
approval by Grand Lodge, the Lodge, after election of trial commissioners, proceeded to elect two alternate trial commissioners. While the
election of alternate trial commissioners might be desirable, it is not provided for by the controlling sections, which are Sections 299 and 311,
Constitution and Ordinances, the latter of which provides that should
vacancies occur on the Trial Commission, the Commissioners may, subject to the approval of the Master, choose properly qualified members of
the Lodge to fill such vacancies. However, in the case reported herein
. for approval. since neither of the alternates actually served as trial
commissioners, we are of the opinion that the election of alternates was
a mere irregularity which resulted in no prejudice to the accused. An
approval of the result in this particular case is not to be interpreted as
approving the election of alternates, since to do so would be in conflict
with the provisions of Section 311.

Sincerely and fraternally yours,
Harry S Truman"
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send acknowledgment covering receipt of the above to Brother Harry S Truman and
to the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON GRIEVANC ES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances is not unmindful of the serious consequences of remanding the matter of a masonic trial to the Lodge for
retrial. Such action results in additional expense to the Lodge. We
therefore attempt to explore every possibility of amending the trial record by resolution of Grand Lodge, but in many instances such action
cannot be taken by Grand Lodge because of jurisdictional defects or failure of proof.
We urge that the elective officers of the Lodges make careful study
of the trial provisions of our Constitution and Ordinances, and that
when doubt arises as to their meaning or application, advice be asked
from those well-informed in masonic law.
We urge that especial notice be taken of the fact that under our
masonic law, there are two distinct methods of disciplinary procedure:
FIRST: The procedure for so-called automatic expulsion under Section 332, Constitution and Ordinances, which procedure is available and
should be used where a mason has been convicted of a felony by the
courts, and has been imprisoned therefor, and, SECOND: The procedure for trial provided for in Sections 287 to 331, inclusive. We urge
the use of the forms prescribed by Grand Lodge, and believe that if such
sections be studied and followed, and such forms used, there will not be
frequent occasion for reversal by Grand Lodge.
In proceedings for automatic expulsion we emphasize the necessity of
mailing the required notice to the proper address of the accused, which
proper address, if he still be confined, is the prison or institution in
which he is held in custody, not his address before being so confined.
We must again make mention of the frequency with which we find
that charges of unmasonic conduct are filed upon a specification that
the accused was convicted of, or arrested for a criminal offense, rather
than the proper specification that he did the acts constituting the criminal offense. Where the charge of unmasonic conduct arises out of a
matter which has been the subject of criminal proceedings in the courts,

284

285

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We are aware of the addition~} burden placed upon the Grand Secretary and the Grand Master by the 1951 amendment to Section 301,
providing for the appointment by the Grand Master of a Trial Master
in .each case of a masonic trial. Some Masters of Lodges regard it as their
prerogative to preside over such a trial in their Lodge; and perhaps resent the appointment of a Trial Master. Such Masters should not regard such appointment of a Trial Master as an usurpation of the Master's traditional rights. We believe that many reversals and retrials,
and much expense, can be saved our lodges by the appointment of Trial
Masters skilled in masonic law, and we suggest that every Master of a
Lodge might well survey the list of Past Masters of his Lodge, in order
that he might recommend the best qualified Past Master for appointment as Trial Master.
There has been referred to the committee on Grievances a total of 65
records. This report to Grand Lodge will deal with 38 of these records.
The remaining 27 records will be the subject of separate reports due to
the fact that they involve appeals, petitions for restoration, or some other
situation ~hich, in the opinion of your committee, requires them to be
separately considered:
Your committee will recommend to Grand Lodge the affirmance of
the result reflected in the file of each of the following trial records:
No. 1269-(Retrial). A member of James Madison Lodge No. 572.
Expelled May 7, 1953.
No. 1311-A member of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Expelled October 7, 1952.
No. 1312-A member of Janesville Lodge No. 232. Reprimanded
, August 13, 1952.
No. 1313-A member of Justice Lodge No. 549. Reprimanded October
6, 1952.
No. 1316-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled October 2, 19-52.
No. 1320-A member of Park Lodge No. 449. Acquitted December 4,
1952.
No. 1321-A member of Naval Lodge No. 87. Expelled January 8.
1953.
No. 1322-A member of Albany Lodge No. 686. Expelled January 6,
1953.
No. 1325-A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled January 8,
1953.
No. 1328-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled February
5, 1953.
No. 1329-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Acquitted January
5, 1953.
No. 1330-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Expelled January
5, 1953.

No. 1331-A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Acquitted March 3,
1953.
No. 1336-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled April 3,
1953.
No. 1338-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Expelled May 6
•
1953.
No. 1339-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expelled May 7
1953.
•
No. 1340-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Suspended May
6, 1953.
·No. 1341-A member of Fellowship Lodge No. 480. Acquitted May 5
1953.
•
No. 1343-A member of Redwood City Lodge No. 168. Expelled May
7, 1953.
No. 1344-A member of Janesville Lodge No. 232. Reprimanded May
13, 1953.
No. 1345-A member of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366. Expelled June 18
1953.
.
No. 1346-A member of Traver Lodge No. 294. Expelled June 3, 1953.
No. 1347-A member of Texas Lodge No. 46. Expelled July 11, 1953.
No. 1348-A member of Buckeye Lodge No. 195. Expelled June 11
1953.
•
No. 1349-A member of Seafaring Lodge No. 708. Expelled July 1,
1953.
No. 1350-A member of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657. Expelled
July 6, 1953.
No. 1351-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Reprimanded July
3, 1953.
No. 1352-A member of San Dimas Lodge No. 428. Acquitted June
1, 1953.
No. 1353-A member of Lodi Lodge No. 256. Expelled August 13
1953.
.
'
•
No. 1355-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Suspended Sep.
,
tember l, 1953.
No. 1356-A member of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Expelled September 3, 1953.
No. 1357-A member of Alameda Lodge No. 167. Expelled September
2, 1953.
No. 1359-A member of Perris Lodge No. 411. Expelled September
14, 1953.
No. 1360-A member of Concord Lodge No. 117. Expelled September
1, 1953.
No. 1361-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Reprimanded October 1, 1952.
_
I

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

286

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

,

No. 1362-A member of Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Acquitted July
6. 1953.
No. 1363-A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Expelled September 4, 1953.
No. 1364-A member of Petaluma Lodge No. 180. Expelled September
3, 1953.
Your Committee has carefully reviewed the record i~ each of the
foregoing matters.
We find therein no errors of a character which may have resulted in
a miscarriage of justice.
In each of them there has been a substantial compliance with the
procedural requirements of our Constituti~n and Or~inances. In all
cases of automatic expulsion reported therein, the reqmrements of Se~­
tion 332 have been substantially followed. In each of the matters m
which a trial has been had, the result is supported by sufficient evidence
in the record, and in those cases in which the penalty was ~xed at
reprimand, suspension or expulsion, we believe that the findings of
Guilty are adequately supported, and that the penalties ~posed are in
reasonable accord with the character of the offenses committed.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED that in each of the foregoing enumerated
trial records the action of the Lodge in cases of automatic
expulsion, and the findings and determination of the Trial
Commission, and the penalty imposed, be and the same
are ratified, affirmed and approved.
JoE T. SHELL
F.L. MANKER
R. K. PIERSON
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

ALBERT F. RoN
RALPH E. HoYT
ALFRED F. BAUGHN

Adopted.
•

"I'···..

.

,-h·

r;~--~1~\~~~~~:~~(tt>~~-'-·· t ·. JJ_~

.........

,....,

...

T" __, , . .

,.

•

~

·' l

..

• '"'t

· ..

COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES, CONTINUED
In the following cases, the Committee on Grievances presented in
detail the' reasoning by which they arrived at the recommendations made
and the resolutions presented, and in every instance, Grand Lodge,
acting on each separately, approved the recommendations of the Committee:
No. 680--Petition for restoration. A member of Sun Garden Lodge
No. 530. Expelled February 12, 1931. Resolved: That the
petition of L. W. N. for restoration to the rights and privi.
leges of Masonry be and the same is hereby denied.
No.

922-Petition for restoration. A member of Oak Grove Lodge

287

No. 215. Expelled September 1, 1937. Resolved: That the
petition of H. W. R. for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry be, and the same is hereby granted.
No. 1043-Petition for restoration. A member of Union Lodge No. 58.
Expelled August 2, 1944. Resolved: That the petition of
S. G. for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry
be denied.
No. 11 OS-Petition for restoration. A member of Pacific Lodge No. 136.
Expelled June 3, 1937. Resolved: That the petition of S. I. R.
for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry be,
and the same is hereby denied.
No.1112&
1143-Petition for restoration. A member of Blackmer Lodge No.
442. Expelled June 7, 1948. Resolved: That the petition of
J. W. S. for restoration to the rights and privileges of
Masonry be denied without prejudice.
No. 1148-Petition for restoration. A member of Lebanon Lodge No.
495. Expelled September 7, 1948. Resolved: That the petition of Z. B. K. to be restored to the rights 11nd privileges of
a Fellow Craft Mason be, and the same is hereby granted.
No. 1229-Petition for restoration. A member of Fresno Lodge No.
247. Expelled October 13, 1950. Resolved: That the petition
of R. D. C. for restoration to the rights and privileges of
Masonry be, and the same is hereby denied.
No. 1244-P~tition for restoration. A member of Carquinez Lodge No.
337. Expelled May 2, 1951. Resolved: That the petition of
C. A. L. for restoration to the rights and privileges of
Masonry be, and it is hereby denied without prejudice.
No. 1297-Petition for restoration. A member of Pohona Lodge No.
689. Expelled August 6, 1952. Resolved: That the petition
of M. E. B. for restoration to the rights and privileges of
Masonry be, and the same is hereby granted.
No. 1310--A member of Presidio Lodge No. 354. Reprimanded October 2, 1952. Resolved: That the findings of the trial commission in Trial Record No. 1310 be ratified, confirmed and
approved: that by action of this Grand Lodge the penalty be
fixed at expulsion.
No. 1314-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Suspended
September 8, 1952. Resolved: That the action of Monte
Vista Lodge No. 655 in suspending W. L. 0. be, and the
same is vacated and set aside and the matter returned to the
lodge for filing amended charges, and for trial thereon
after proper service on the accused.

288

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. 1315-A member of San Pasqual Lodge No. 452. Expelled October l, 1952. Resolved: That in Trial Record No. 1315 a
finding of guilt on the specification be supplied, and that
thereupon the action of San Pasqual Lodge No. 452 in expelling R. C. W. from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry be, and the same is hereby ratified, affirmed and
approved.
No. 1317 &
1358-A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598. Ex.pelled Oct~ber 4, 1952. Resolved: That the consideration of Tnal
Records Nos. 1317 and 1358 by this Grand Lodge be continued to the next Annual Communication.
N 1318-A member of Yount Lodge No. 12. Acquitted October 7,
o.
· 1952. Resolved: That the Trial Commission's finding in the
Trial Record No. 1318, that T. L.B. is guilty of the specification be, and it is hereby affirmed and approved: Th~t the
said Commission's finding that said accused is not guilty of
unmasonic conduct be, and it is hereby set aside: That, by
action of Grand Lodge, a finding of unmasonic conduct be,
and it is hereby supplied, and That the said T. L. B. be,
and he is hereby suspended from all the rights and privileges
of masonry.
N 1319-A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expel~ed October
o.
7 1952. Resolved: That the findings of the Trial Commission in Trial Record 1319 be vacated and set aside, and that
the matter be remanded to the Lodge for further proceedings.
No. 1323-A member of Al~atraz Lodge No. 244. Expelled December 3, 1952. Resolved: That the Findings of the trial c~m­
mission in Trial Record No. 1323 be reversed and set aside,
and that the matter be remanded to the lodge for further
and proper proceedings.
N 1324-A member of Ponderosa Lodge No. 700. Expelled Janua~
o.
14, 1953. Resolved: That the action of the Trial Commissioners in finding J. L. F. guilty of unmasonic conduct as
shown by Trial Record No. 1324 be, and the same is hereby
reversed and set aside, and that the matter be remanded to
the lodge for further and proper proceedings.
N 1326-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Suspended Decem?er
o.
3, 1952. Resolved: That in Trial Record No. 1326, a find~ng
of guilt of both specifications be supplied, and that a fix1;11g
of the penalty at suspension be supplied, and that the action
of Union Lodge No. 58 in suspending B. Y. from all of the
rights and privileges of Masonry be, and the same is hereby
ratified, affirmed and approved.
·- ..

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

289

No. 1327-A Fellow Craft of Florence Lodge No. 649. Expelled
February 5, 1953. Resolved: That the expulsion of W. T. N.
by Florence Lodge No. 649 ·b e reversed and set aside. and
that the lodge be advised to have new and proper charges
filed against the accused.
No. 1332-A member of Doric Lodge No. 216. Reprimanded April 6,
1953. Resolved: That the findings of the Trial Commissioners in Trial Record No. 1332 be ratified, confirmed and approved: that by action of this Grand Lodge, the penalty be
fixed at expulsion.
.
No. 1333-A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Acquitted February 3, 1953. Resolved: That the finding of acquittal of
M. R. S. herein be reversed and set aside, and the matter
be remanded to Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 for amendment
of the charges to state the commission of the offense of
which accused was convicted in the State Court, and that
. he be tried on such amended charges.
No. 1334-A member of Alamo Lodge No. 122. 'suspended February
7, 1953. Resolved: That in Trial Record No. 1334, the
action of Alamo Lodge No. 122, in finding the accused, E. D.,
guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed, but that the penalty thereon be, and the same is hereby fixed at expulsion.
No. 1335-A member of Illinoistown Lodge No. 51. Suspended February 2 •. 1953 .. Resolved~ That the action of Eureka Lodge
No. 16 m finding the accused D. E. B. guilty of unmasonic
conduct and fixing the penalty at suspension be affirmed,
ratified and approved.
No. 1337-A member of Covenant Lodge No. 527. Expelled May 6,
1953. Resolved: That in Trial Record No. 1337 the finding
of guilt of Specification 1 be reversed: That the findings of
guilty of Specifications 2 and 3 be affirmed: and the findings
of guilty of Specifications 4 and 5 be affirmed. Further that
the finding of guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed, and
the penalty of expulsion be approved, and that said accused,
D. E. B. be expelled from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
No. 1342-A member of Ionic Lodge No. 520. Expelled May 4, 1953.
!?esolved: That the expulsion of D. D. R. be reversed and
set aside, and the matter be returned to Ionic Lodge No. 520
for the filing of amended charges, stating Masonic offenses,
if the facts warrant.
No. 1354-A member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. Reprimanded July
2, 1953. Resolved: That the action of Burbank Lodge No.
406 in finding the accused A. C. F. guilty of unmasonic

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

291

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

290

It is the duty of the Inspector to require attendance of officers at meetings of the Officers' Associations; likewise, it is part of the duties of the
officers to attend. (Sec. 53, 865 R.D.) If the offending officer is one who
requires a certificate of advancement, then the Inspector may withhold
such certificate. If such officer is one who does not require a certificate
for advancement, the Inspector should request the Master to remove the
offending officer and appoint another in his place. Failure of a Master
to accede to such request of the Inspector, or if the Master be the offender, would subject the Master to suspension by the Grand Master. See
Sec. 34, Para. 8, 856, 857, 858 R.D.
Similar action may be taken in respect to any officers who for any
reason fail or refuse to perform any of the duties of their respective offices
as imposed by the Constitution and Ordinances of Grand Lodge. See
Sec. 34, Para. 8, and Sec. 856 R.D.
Adopted.

conduct be affirmed, but that the penalty ther.eon be, and
same is hereby raised from reprimand to exp~ls1on.
By separate action on each item, the recommendations were each
adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON Jl:7Rl~PRUDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
.
.
d
h examined, concurs m, and
Your Committee on Jurispru enJeLo~s 0 f the Most Worshipful
recommends approv~l.by tNhe ~r~n
g~,O 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17
Grand Master s Dec1s1ons o. , • 3 , 4 • • •

9

and 18.

OsCAR LAWLER
, WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
JoHN R. MooRE
J. L. MisSALL
ARTHUR PAULSEN . LEONARD R. AVILLA
. Louis c. DRAPEAU CARL H. ALLEN
JOHN w. SHENK

GRAND MASTER'S DECISION NO. 7

Adopted.

GR

AND MASTER'S DECISION NO. 5

.

k d.. hether a lodge on a social occasion
The Grand Master was as e w
.
?" He has
may distribute by chance. merchandise awards or premiums.
answered this i.n the ne~l~tivei d Masonic law if they are conducted
Such practices are i ega. un er te . and under the Penal Code of
in such a manner a~ to consht1tu~e t~elryot a~~nsideration, direct or indirect,
California to constitute sue a o
.
• . h d
• f
h . ht f participating mt e rawmg.
must be paid or t e rig. o.
"d directly for a chance to win a prize, or
In cases where a price is p~1
d and as an incident thereto, the
where an admittance ~h~rge is ~a. e~te in a drawing• the transaction is
purchaser accepts the rig t to par ic1p
illegal.
"d
"d ation for the chance to win, the trans•
If nothing is pa1 as a cons1 er
.
. .
t
. lation of our laws against lotteries.
action is no a v10
,
Adopted.

GRAND MASTER'S DECISION NO. 6

,

.
J . udence has considered Grand Master s
your Committee on urispr
. th following form: I was asked
Decision No. 6, approves the same m e
the following question:
t"
ay an Inspector take in respect of
"What corrective ac ion m
d
t" gs of Officers' Asso•
h f ·1
fuse to atten mee m
Officers w o a1 or re
the requisite administrative ability
..
ciations, or who do not possess
for advancement?"

The Grand Master was asked the following question:
"May an Entered Apprentice, in the company with a Master
Mason who witnessed his initiation, visit another Lodge on the
First Degree?"
The Grand Master replied, "The answer is YES. provided, however,
that the other lodge may refuse admission if it so desires, since admission
would be as a courtesy only. The Entered Apprentice would not have
a right, albeit itself qualified, of a Master Mason. Moreover, if the other
lodge permits the Entered Apprentice to visit, this is done without examination and 'as a courtesy shown to the lodge in which he received the
Degree, or to the Master Mason accompanying him." (Sec. 173, 1046
R.D.)
This ruling is approved, the Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurring. Your Committee recommei:ids that when a Master
grants admission to a visiting Entered Apprentice to his lodge, he should
have the visiting Entered Apprentice introduced as such to the lodge in
order that the Brethren may be advised, in the event of any discussion of
matters concerning only Master Masons.
Adopted.

GRAND MASTER'S DECISION NO. 8
The Grand Master was asked the following question: "Is. an appli~
cant who was convicted by general court martial of desertion in 1930,
served a year, and was dishonorably discharged from the Army eligible
to receive the degrees of Masonry?" The Grand Master's answer was
44

No."

Assuming, without so deciding. that one so convicted by a court martial could be considered to have been convicted on a felony within the

292

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

. . d
not a ear from the statem ent of facts in this
meaning of our la~, it oes d ppufficient length
of time to classify the
case that the appuc ant serve a s

cri~:: :t!~~~:~~self does not determine th~ class~~~:t!~~:~:::hl~ t~;

Feder al statut es describe a felo;;?' a~:e ~~:re 7n~sm
uch as this applideath or by imprisonment excee n~l of a ~isdemeano
r only.
cant served for onfe yl~ar, ht~e:apspRca!r should' proba bly
be rejected, but
As a matte r o po icy,
he is not ineligible. as a matte r of law.
· Adop ted.

DISP ENS ATIO NS APP ROV ED

, your Committee on Jurispruden~e has ~adGund~r ~~:~~
~e~::~ ~=
special dispensations issued and ~~m~~~:
de~a:ees from members of
year, incl~d~~r:~: ~::~:go~h:~;~e~ce quali~cation,
and also his apthe Arme
.
1f
to Life Membership
proval of Res~lutI}fs{e a :v:f the Grand Mast er .in regar
d to these matWe 8nd t at.a t e ~c ~ce with the requirements of
ters have been m codmph iat th acts of the Grand Mast the law. We,
er therein be aptherefore, recommen t a
e
proved.
.
Adop ted.

:o:

SUBVERSIVES INELIGIBLE

. d
appro ved as to form the
your Committee on JBunsphru eBnce hhave
Helba ch Swan k and Visge r
.
b
·u
d
by
rot
ers
urc
•
•
Reso1ution su mi e. N
. h
addin g the new Section o. 210.01 t o the Edict s and Ordin ances wh1c
as propoSsed: re~~~ a;l fo~~w;~rson shall hold, or retain
, or be eligible
ection . . . .
Lod e who had advised, advoc ated or
for membership. m
bee: a member of, or affiliated with any
taugh t, or ~ho is o~ciation or organization which advise
s, advogroup, soc1eh, ass h
dvised advoc ated or taugh t the overcates or teac es, or. t~:e or other unlawful means of
the Govthrow by ffothrce Uor ':t:deStates of America or of the State
of Caliernme nt o
e D1
fornia.
Adop ted by 5/ 6 vote.

a::s

AME NDM ENT OF SECT ION 111

. rudence has considered the recommends..
Your Committee on Ju~isti
exten ding the time within which
tion in The Gran d Mastber s ~~::~d from sixty ( 60)
to ninety ( 90)
charte red Lodg es must e cons 1
days, and recom mets ~s fo!l~;'~~ the Ordin ances be amen
ded by strik..
"Reso lved tdh~t. tye~tionline / and inserting in place thereo
f• the word
ing out the wor six on
•
'ninet y'."
Adop ted by 5/6vo te.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

293

PLU RAL MEM BER SHIP
Amen dmen t of Secti ons 101, 163, 17.5, 250 and 251
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered the
proposed legislation for the amen dmen t to Section 163 of the Ordin
ances providing
for plural membership and also neces sary amendments
to other Sections
of Ross Diges t to make them comply with the propo
sed amendment.
They hereb y recommend the approval of the following
proposed amen dments to Sections 163, 250, 251, 101 and 175 of Ordin ances
.
Sectio n 163 is amen ded to read as follows:
This Grand Lodge recognizes and authorizes membership
in more
than one Lodge under the following conditions:
1. A member of a Lodge of this jurisdiction residing
in.the jurisdiction of anoth er Gran d Lodge which allows dual membership
may affiliate
with one or more Lodges in that jurisdiction while retain
ing his membership in this jurisdiction. He becomes a dual member.
2. A member of a Lodge of any other Grand Jurisdiction
which allows
dual membership may, if residing in this jurisdiction, affilia
te with one or
more Lodges under this Gran d Lodge while retain ing his
membership in
such other jurisdiction. He becomes a dual member.
3. A member, in good stand ing, of a Lodge in this jurisd
iction may
retain such membership and affiliate with any one or more
Lodges under
this Grand Lodge or join in the petition for a Dispe nsatio
n for a new
Lodge and may prese nt a paid up dues receipt in lieu of
a dimit or dema nd
for dimit. Such a member becomes a plural member.
4. Upon the election of a plural member or the forma
tion of a new
Lodge containing one or more plural members, the Secre
tary shall immediately notify the Gran d Secre tary and also every
other Lodge in
which the plural member holds membership.
5. A plural member shall pay all dues required by each Lodge
wherein
membership is held and shall have all the rights and privil
eges of membership in each of the Lodges excep t that he shall not be
Maste r, Ward en
or Secre tary of more' than one of such Lodges at the same
time and except
that the burde n of the relief of a plural member, his wife,
widow and orphans shall rest on the Lodges in which he holds memb
ership in propo r- ·
tion to the length of membership in each.
6. Suspension for non-p ayme nt of dues or otherwise, or
expulsion of
a plural member shall immediately, and of itself, termi
nate his membership in all Lodges in this jurisdiction and the Secre tary
of the Lodge suspending or expelling such a member shall immediately
notify the Grand
Secre tary and also every other Lodge in which the plural
member holds
membership. Like notice shall be given in case of reinst
ateme nt and shall
immediately and automatically restore him to membership
in each other
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

294

nt a pforal mem~
7 N thing in this Section shall be construed to preve

her f~om° receiving a di~it if othedr~ise .ent~tl~:~~!~e t:~:·membership in
erem, is
mbershi as used
8 Dual membership as use
Lod~es of different Grand Juris~ic~ions. Plural m~odges i: the same
herein, is defined to be membership m two or more
Grand Jurisdiction.

h ll k

record of all brothers holding

plu;~l ~::i~:~~~p Sae~~e!~:J1.~:0vid:ef0 :ms to cover this Section.

Add to Section 250: .
b .
d standing in this jurisdiction
4th. If the applicant be a mem er m goo . t from the Lodge of which
and desires to hold plural mem~er~hip, a rec~~ for at least three months
he is a member showin~ t~at his ues a;~Jl commence as of the date of
f the first of the month next
in advance. Membership m the Lodge
the election and dues shall commence as o
succeeding as provided in Section 25~.. .
Amend Section 251 (new wo~ds in italic~): shall be twelve dollars.
The minimum annual dues rom me~ t~:s month next following the
Dues shall commen~e with the firs\~a:ie~tion to membership in the case
conferring of the third d~gr~e'. or t . d r where the dimit, when re~
of affiliation where no d1m1~ is .requirein' t~e event that the dimit is filed
quired, is filed with the apbphcah~10~, orffil'ation then with the first day of
d
following election to mem ers ip Y a ~ . . •.
the month next following the date such dimit is issue .
Add to Section 101:
b
f Lodge in this jurisdiction ~ho de~
( 5) In the case of a mem her o a
. t for dues and a statement of
sires to become a plural mem er, a receip
b
the petitioner's desire to affiliate as a plural mem er.
Add to Section 175:
th e signers who have signified a
This Section shall not app1Y to os
desire to affiliate as a plural member.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

CONFIRMING IN MASONIC HOMES LEGAL TITLE
TO THE ENDOWMENT FUND
.

d
d ted the report of a special com~
Whereas in 1909 Grand Lo ge a op
endati·on among others,
· H
with a recomm
. •
.
M
asonic.. omes
E d wment Fund of the Masonic
mittee on the
for the creation of a Permanent n o
.
t d by the Board of Trustees
Homes of California": and
Whereas in 1910 the fund. "'.'as i~at.~~~~:;anent Improvement Fund"
of Masonic Homes by combmm~ i~ that year from the Estate of Broth~
with the amount of a bequest rece~ve
er Jacob Hart Neff: and
. H mes of California were formed into
Whereas in 1919 the Masonic o
k
·ve hold and transfet
t•
•th powers to ta e, recei •
.
al
a charitable corpora ion :Vi H
f California title to real and person
in the name of the Masonic omes o
property howsoever acquired: and

295

Whereas by the provisions of Sections 79 and 80 of the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge, the Trustees of that corporation are declared to be the
successors of the Trustees originally appointed under the resolutions
adopted in 1892, and subsequently thereto: and there is vested in that
corporation the title to all property, real and personal, and all rights of
action belonging to said charity, or to which it may in any way become
entitled: and
Whereas the Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge by virtue of his office
is also the treasurer of Masonic Homes of California, a Corporation, and
as such has the custody of the Endowment Fund and all funds of Ma~
sonic Homes of California: and
Whereas an Endowment Board of Grand Lodge was established in
1933 consisting of 15 members representing the various Masonic districts
in California who are charged with the duty, among others, of issuing
appeals to the lodges and to Masons for contributions to the Endowment
Fund for the Masonic Homes of California: and that in issuing these ap~
peals, the Endowment Board recommends certain forms for gifts and
bequests, and that in all of them it is suggested that the gift or bequest
be made to "Masonic Homes of California, a California corporation, to
become a part of its Endowment Fund" and gifts and bequests have been
made directly to the Corporation, all of which has resulted in unnecessary
confusion as to the ownership of such funds: and
Whereas during the current year a bequest to "Masonic Endowment
Fund of the Grand Lodge of California" was reported by an Inheritance
Tax Appraiser as taxable, as was also, in another case, a bequest to
"Masonic Homes Endowment Board of the State of California": and in
each case, the bequest was exempted only after objection interposed by
the Trustees of Masonic Homes of California, and the presentation, by
affidavit, of facts showing the creation, organization and purpose of the
fund, and that the sole beneficiary is the Masonic Homes of California,
a charitable corporation, with the requisite provision in its Articles of
Incorporation with respect to the ultimate disposition of the funds to a
similar type fund in the event of the liquidation, dissolution, or abandon~
ment of the corporation: and
Whereas said Endowment Fund was accumulated solely for the pur~
pose of the support and maintenance of the Homes conducted by said
Masonic Homes Corporation and the entire income is used by the said
Corporation for said purpose: now therefore,
Be It Resolved:
That Grand Lodge does hereby formally and specifically, in accord~
ance with the provisions of Sections 79 and 80 of the Ordinances of
Grand Lodge, confirm the legal title in and to the Permanent Endowment
Fund of the Masonic Homes of California in the Masonic Homes of
California, a corporation, and declares that t~e said legal title be and it
hereby is, vested in said corporation subject only to the trusts attaching

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.
Gr nd Lod
by waive, release. aban don and
to said fund. and a . Hg e doesf here
California, a corporation, wha
teve r
quit-claim to the Mas~mc h omes o
legal title or color of title t at may n~w b vested in it, all in accordance
e
lutions of Gra nd Lodge
with the cons~i!ution, orhdi
esl • edit
\~~:
;p~~
:~io
n of said corporation.
and the provisions of t e nAan~
rttc es 0
Ado pted unanimously·

JUDGE AD VO CA TE

Spe~ial ~o~::~~ec~1:n~i~!: ~:v~~~~

The recommendations of the
as submitted in their reiv ;!· hw~; ::n~~:re
nce of that Committee, Y?ur
and General Purposes.
t
d that Section 3 of our Con stitu Committee on Jurisprudenceit reco
mmen s
tion be ~se:~e~~er~r~:~ t~~;s~hall be
composed of a Gra ndJ fasd
ter (w~~s~ ad~ress shall be Mos t Wo~shif~
Mas ter a Senior Gra nd War den , an a ~i~~ ag:~~tWa:d~n
f 1) a Gra nd
( whos~ addresses shall severally be Right Worship. du
J• dge Ad
Trea sure r. a Gra n d S ecreta~?"l~ Gra nd Lecturer an a u
be
Ver
y Wor ship ful) ,
11
voGcataend( t:aspel~:dr:s~:esa~dr;:;:~alf
be Ver y Re~erendG). tbde
a r
Assistant Gra nd Lecturers. a G ran d 0 ra t r an Assistant ran
o • G d Mar shal a
Trea sure r, an Assi stan t Gr(:1d ~e~::J'a
:are:~~ Gra nd Bible
Gra nd Standa~d BGearerd,
ran
Juni
or
Gra nd Deacon, two
Bearer, a Senior ran
eacon, a
G d Or anist and a

D

g~:~ ~~;;·(°!:h~.~:;d~::~;::i:'~:d~~.:M~::h::;1~~

together with all PasMtGra nd d cWer:rde
ns of the several char . . d" ti n and the asters an
Juris
o •
.
d
Lod
the
repr
tered ic
esentatives t hereo f
and duly
constitute
ges, or
.
duly elected."
Adopted unanimously.
you r Committee also recommen de d that a new section numbered 50.1
be adde d to the Ordinances, reading as follo
ws:

"Ju?,~e A~~ota~he Jud~e Advocate shall be the lega
the Gr:~d M~ster with such duties as the

scribe."
Ado pted unanimously·

l adviser of
Gra nd Mas ter may pre-

TRI AL PRO CED UR ES
.
d nee has reviewed the recommendaYour Committee on Juris
pru eT . 1 p cedures Wit
h the concurtions of the Special Committee on na
ro mend that consideration
"tt
Grie
vanc
es,
we
C
reco
m
rence o f t he ommi
.
on
f
d fl
of these recommendatee
ions be de erre un i the 1954 Annual Communication be conducted.
·
Adopted.

GRAND LODGB OP CALIFORNIA

297

AM EN DM EN T OF SEC TIO NS 70 AN

D 74
"Be It Resolved that Section 70, Ross Dige
st, be amended by adding
to line three following the words 'in Lod
ge financing,' the wor ds 'on
Cha rters ,' and deleting from line four follo
wing the words, 'Pay of Members' the wor ds 'on Cha rters ,' and by dele
ting from line five the words
'on Returns' and 'on libra ry'."
Section 70 will then read as follows:
"Th e following standing Committees
shall be appointed by the
Gra nd Mas ter at each Annual Communicati
on just before the close, viz.:
On Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, on Lodge Financing,
on Cha rters , to consist of nine members
each; on Finances, on Grievances, on Credentials, on Pay of Members
, on By-Laws, on Correspondence, on Gra nd Lodge Wee k Activities,
to consist of seven members
each: and on Necrology to consist of five
members. At least one Mas ter
and one War den shall be appointed on
each of said committees. The
duties of such committees shall continue
during the year thereafter, and
shall cease at the close of the next succeedi
ng Ann ual Communication.
"Be It Further Resolved that Section 74,
Ross Digest, be and the
same is hereby repealed."
Ado pted by 5/6 vote.
ME MO RIA L DO NA TIO NS IN LIEU

OF FLO WE RS

"Be It Resolved: Tha t Section 158, Ross Dige
st, be amended by adding thereto the following:
"In lieu of a floral piece for the deceased pers
on, when requested by hi~ family, a contribution may be
made to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fun d. Such donation
shal
by the Homes Endowment Committee and l be acknowledged
the family of the deceased brother notified of its receipt."
Section 158 will then read as follows:
"Ea ch Lodge may provide, in such man
ner as it may deem
proper, for the payment of it's officers or repr
esentatives in atte nding the communications of the Gra nd Lod
ge. It may in its discretion appr opri ate from its funds any amo
unt for the purchase of
a testimonial for its retiring Mas ter and for
or deceased brot her or his family. The orga floral pieces for an ill
nist shall receive such
compensation for his services as the Lod
ge may direct.
"In lieu of a floral piece for the deceased
person, when requested by his family, a contribution may
be made to the Masonic
Homes End owm ent Fun d. Such donation
shal
by the Homes Endowment Committee and l be acknowledged
the family of the deceased brother notified of its receipt."
We move the adoption of the resolution.
Ado pted by 5/6 vote.

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 100 (a)

"5th: For each Master Mason home upon its rolls as of July
31, the sum of $1.00 for the use and benefit of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple."
The Grand Lodge may levy, in addition to the above, such other Per
Capita sums as, in its judgment, may be required.
The Per Capita sums levied under 2, 3, 4 and 5 herein shall not apply
to any of the following:
1. Master Masons whose accrued dues for the preceding 12 months
have been remitted by Lodge action at the July Stated Meeting.
2. Master Masons whose dues have been remitted in advance because
of 40 years membership in good standing in this jurisdiction as provided
for in Section 255.
_ 3. Master Masons whose dues have been remitted in advance because
of special service rendered to the Lodge, who are over 75 years of age,
and merit such remission as provided for in Section 255.
4. Master Masons whose dues have been remitted because of residence in the Masonic home at Decoto.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

Be It Enacted:
That Section 100 (a) of the Ordinances of the Grand Lodge of
California be amended to read as follows:
In addition to the contribution to the Masonic Homes provided for
in the preceding section, each applicant for the degrees shall accompany
the application with a contribution of one dollar for the use ~nd b~nefit
of the Endowment Fund of the George Washington Masomc National
Memorial. and the sum of nine dollars for the use and benefit of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple: each Lodge shall transmit such
contributions to the Grand Secretary quarterly on the first day of November, February, May and August subsequent to the initiation of the
candidate: the Grand Secretary shall pay the same over to the Grand
Treasurer to be held by him subject to allocation and payment by order
of the Grand Master. In the event of death or denial of advancement
or forfeiture of fees as provided for in Section 241, before the candidate
is raised, such sum shall be returned to the Lodge in the manner, and
for disposition as provided in the preceding section for the return of
the Homes fee in a like event.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 99
Be It Enacted: That Section 99 of the Ordinances of the Grand
Lodge of California be amended by adding thereto the following:
"5th. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July
31, the sum of $1.00 for the use and benefit of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple."
·
Be It Further Enacted: That Section 99 be amended that the per
capita sum levied under Section 5 shall not apply t? t~ose classi~ca­
tions previously enumerated with reference to the application of Sections
2, 3 and 4.
As amended, Section 99 will read as follows:
"Sec. 99. Each Lodge, whether chartered or under dispensation, shall pay with its Annual Returns, the following Contributions:
"1st. For every Degree it shall have conferred during the year
a sum of $1.00.
"2nd: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July
31, the sum of 50c.
"3rd: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of Ju.ly
31, such Per Capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for its
general activities.
"4th. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July
31, such Per Capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for the
support of Masonic Homes of California.

299

CALL FOR SPECIAL COMMUNICATION
Be It Enacted, That Section 32 of Article 1, Ordinances of the Grand
Lodge of California, be amended to read as follows:
"Special communications may be ordered by the Grand Master whenever, in his opinion, the welfare of the fraternity shall
require it, and shall be ordered by the Grand Master upon application therefor in writing, setting forth the causes which demand
it, and sign~d by the Masters of at least 2(} per cent of the chartered Lodges. Every order for a Special communication shall designate the object thereof. so far as is proper to be written, and,
unless such communication be called merely for the performance
of some Masonic ceremony, shall be issued to each Lodge and
Grand Officer at least thirty days before the day named for meeting: and no business shall be transacted thereat other than that for
which the Grand Lodge was especially convened."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

QUORUM FOR GRAND LODGE COMMUNICATION
Be It Enacted: That Section 11 of the Constitution be amended by
striking the words "seventy-five" in the first line, and by inserting in lieu
thereof the following: "twenty per cent of the."
As amended, the section will read:
"The officers or representatives of at least twenty per cent of
the Lodges chartered by this Grand Lodge," etc.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
At 6:00 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Friday.

300

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, FRIDAY, OCTOBER

16, 1953

Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master ruled that in accordance with the regulations,
each application for degrees received by a Lodge at a Stated Meeting
after the close of this Communication should contain Question 13 in the
amended form, and the payment accompanying the application should
include the $9.00 contribution to California Masonic Memorial Temple.

COMPLETION OF UNFINISHED BUSINESS
By unanimous vote of the representatives present, the election of officers was postponed pending the completion of unfinished business.

APPRECIATION FROM GRAND LODGE OF CHINA
Worshipful Eugene E. Dong, .Master of Confidence Lodge No. 203
of this jurisdiction, addressed Grand Lodge as follows:
"I have the honor to bring to you a message from the representatives of the Grand Lodge of China. At the Wednesday
session of this Grand Lodge, by your very charitable action, recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of China. This recognition has brought joy to all Masonic brethren of that Grand
Lodge who were sojourning within your jurisdiction, yet not legally recognized. Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master H. C.
Mei, who had the privilege of being received at several communications of this Grand Lodge had expressed his hope of recognition many times. He was cherishing this hope at the time of his
death in March of this year. Brother Mei was Masonically active
for 40 years in China. He became District Deputy Grand Master
of the Philippine Islands. During the course of World War II
a price was placed upon his head by the Japanese. He went into
the jungle in the Philippines, and for 4 years subsisted on what
he could obtain from nature. He was given up for dead by his
family who had, in the meanwhile, moved to San Francisco.
When he got back, emaciated and sick, his first concern was for
Masonry in China. He worked diligently for the recognition of
that Grand Lodge, but the Supreme Grand Master summoned
him to his reward before this hope was realized. We know that

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

301

he would have been overjoyed at the action taken at this Communication of the Grand Lodge of California.
"The local members of the Grand Lodge of China have asked
me to present the following message from them:
. " 'We, the members of the Grand Lodge of China residing
m the Ba~ A~ea, r~ceived the good news of your recognition of
our Constitution with deep appreciation. This news we have already cabled to our Grand Officers in Hongkong. No doubt ·
due ti~e: th~y will ~end their fraternal greetings and thanks. y~~~
re~~gmti.on is particularly important not only because this is a
critical time for Masonry in China, but also because we alwa s
c~nsidered th.e California Constitution,as our mother Constit~­
ti~n-:-we hav:mg .derived our protection from the Philippine Constitution, which m turn derived its existence from your august
body.
" 'We are asking Brother Eugene Dong to personally extend
to you our most sincere fraternal greetings.' "

RETURN OF COURT TRANSCRIPT OF TRIAL RECORD
At the request ~f the Grand Secretary. unanimous consent was
granted for the court transcript embodied in Trial Record No. 1359
to be returned 'to Perris Lodge No. 411.

AMENDMENT TO SECTIONS 133 AND 241
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has reviewed the proposed amendment relative to forfeiture of fees and recommends amendment of the
Ordinances of Grand Lodge as follows :
"In S~ction 133, ,Article IV, Section 2, strike out the second
sentence If an applicant does not present himself properly qualified for the Second and Third Degrees within a period of five
years from the date of his initiation as an Entered Apprentice the ,
fee paid for the un-conferred Degree or Degrees shall be forf;ited
unless the Lodge shall otherwise direct.' "
Add additional paragraphs to Section 241 as follows:
"If a candidate ?oes not present himself properly qualified for
the Second and Third Degrees within a period of five years from
the date of his initiation as an Entered Apprentice the Master
~hall direc~ the ~ecretary to forward to such candidate, by registered mail to his last known address, a notice advising him that
unle~s he shall present himself for advancement on or before a
specified date (at least sixty days in advance) his fees for the unconferred degrees will be declared forfeited.
"On the date specified, the Master shall declare the fees for-

302

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

303

feit~d unless further time shall have been granted by a vote of the

AMENDM ENT OF SECTION 126

lodge.
"A candidate thus denied advancemen t shall be considered
only as an Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft with the right
of applying for the remaining Degree or Degrees, and paying the
fees therefor, subject to investigation and election, the same as
any other Candidate."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Your Committee has had under consideratio n the resolution by
Crocker Lodge respecting Section 126 of Ross Digest, and reports as
follows:
"Resolved that the provisions of Section 126 of Ross Digest
be repealed and the following inserted:
"A Lodge shall not, by circular or otherwise, solicit pecuniary
assistance from Lodges or Masons of this or other jurisdictions,
without the permission of the Grand Master. Nor shall any Mason circulate on Lodge premises a petition asking ·financial aid
for any matter or thing whatever, not Masonic, however worthy
it ·may be except for statewide public school purposes. and then
only as a duly appointed member of an authorized Lodge Committee.
"Statewide public schools welfare is a proper subject for discussion in Lodges. Solicitation of individual donations for any
statewide purpose concerning the protection or improvement of
the public schools system may be made on Lodge premises but not
in a tiled Lodge. Such solicitation may be made by First Class
mail in a sealed envelope by a duly authorized Lodge Committee.
which committee may use the Lodge membership list for such purpose."
We move the adoption of the resolution.
Adopted by 5/6vote.

OBJECTIO N AFTER INITIATI ON
Your Committee on Jurispruden ce has had under consideration the
proposal to amend the Ordinances relative to objection after initiation.
We recommend that Section 240 of the Ordinances be amended by adding an additional paragraph as follows:
"The Candidate thus 'stopped from advancemen t' shall have
the status of one rejected for the unconferred degrees, his status
shall be reported to the Grand Secretary, and the interval applying to other rejections must elapse before application may be made
for advancement. Such application shall be made on the regular
form 'Application for Degrees' and shall take the usual course
of investigation and ballot."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON DeMOLAY
AMENDM ENT OF SECTION .100
Your Committee on Jurispruden ce has had under consideration the
proposed amendment of Section 100 of the Ordinances and recommends
that the third paragraph of that section be amended to read as follows:
"If an applicant shall die before being raised or be elected to
membership in another Lodge beyond this jurisdiction under a
dimit issued by his Lodge, or shall be denied advancemen t by action 0 £ the Lodge, or shall suffer forfeiture of his fees as provided
for in Section 241 the fact shall be certified to the Grand Secretary
by the Secretary of the Lodge ~nd the Grand Secretary shall
thereupon cause the contribution to be returned to the Lodge,
which shall thereupon refund the payment to the widow or representative of the deceased applicant, or to the applicant himself as
the case may be."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The special committee on DeMolay is pleased to report that the
order of DeMolay is in good condition in this jurisdiction. A steady
increase in interest is being evidenced in several sections of the state.
There has been numerically a growth in admissions of younger boys
into the order. A great many of the older boys have been called into
military service. Th-is change in age ratio, although not too drastic, has
called for some revamping of social and financial programming.
New interest was shown when Fresno Chapter, with the approval
from the DeMolay officials and advisors, called a state DeMolay convention, the first in many years . .
State-wide interest was again shown in September when the Sacramento DeMolay district acted as host for a DeMolay Day at the California State Fair. At this time a compettlion was held in order to find
the best initiatory degree team.
·The San Diego County Masonic Officers Association again held

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a DeMolay week in February, at which time a request was made by
the DeMolay committee of the Association that Blue Lodges remain
dark during this week and urged participation by visiting a DeMolay
chapter meeting. A total of 704 Masons visited various ~eMolay chapters during this period, an increase of 121 over the previous year, 206
of these visitors were viewing the work for the first time.
The San Francisco-Pen insula-East Bay area also the Los Angeles
area report steady progress in DeMolay.
Again may we be permitted to suggest that you invite a chapter to
exemplify a DeMolay degree at one of your stated me~tings. Our p:ist
experience has shown that many of your me~bers .will .greatly enJ?Y
such an experience. Any member c;>f the committee will be glad to assist
in securing a chapter to visit your Lodge.
.
.
It is recommended that the committee be continued and its numbers
be determined by the Most Worshipful Grand Master.
It is further recommended that the sum of $750.00 be appropriated
to cover its necessary expenses for the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,

Lodge records, is being used and as Grand Lodge records are microfilmed. they are delivered and stored in this vault.
Many Lodges have used the Temple for the conferring of degrees.
Although we expected more to use it for this putpose, the attendance
was not as large as expected. The Committee in the Spring, sent a
communication to all Lodges in California in order to make them familiar with the Temple and its use. A Brochure, containing further information of the Columbia Temple, is being prepared and will be sent as
soon as it is completed.
The following is a statement of the capital expenditure for the fiscal
year ending July 31, 1953:
Grand Lodge appropriation .......................... $2,000.00
Expended ...................................................... $1,891.82
The Committee requests the following amounts for the fiscal year
ending July 31, 1954:
Salaries & Utilities ........................................ $ 600.00
Depreciation, general maintenance and
contingencies ..........................................$2,350.00
Through the courtesy of Dr. Aubrey Neasham, Historian, who did
the major research when Columbia was made a State Park, an official
history of the Columbia Masonic Temple is appended hereto as Exhibit

RAYMOND S. KIMBALL
THURMAN D. MOYERS
KAYV. SMITH
F. HAROLD BUTTERFIELD
•

305

HENRY HONAKER

A.

WALTER FLIERL

Our appreciation is extended to Metropolitan Lodge No. 646 for
the beautiful lamp, which now has been placed over the entrance. This
lamp was hand wrought by Brother Daniel Tudor and delivered to
Grand Lodge by Brother Frank Everett.
Sincere thanks is expressed to Brother Thos. F. Mason, for maps of
Columbia, as follows:
1. Copy of tht: map of Columbia made in 1858.
2. A legend covering the locations as identified by
number on the 1858 map.
3. A map of Columbia made in 1871.
4. A composite map of both of the above maps made
by the Division of Beaches and Parks of the
State of California in 1949.
These will be framed and hung in the Temple.
Sincere thanks is also expressed to Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 and all
others, who gave so generously of their time for the furtherance of the
Work.
Your Committee moves that the request for appropriation be re-

FRANCIS W. PETERS
EDWIN R. BROOKS
ALVIN E. CLARK
CLARE R. NELSON

Reported on by Committee on Segregation and referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
.
RESTORAT ION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee is pleased to report that the Temple Building is in
excellent condition. The care, operation, maintenance and use of the
building is subject to the direction and operation .of lo~al members .of
our Committee and Brother Ray Irwin, who is actively in c~arge of .its
maintenance. All properties of the building are properly inventoried
and accounted for.
The Ore proof vault, which was built for the storage of Grand

307

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

£erred to the Committee on Finance and that the remainder of the report
be adopted.

Gillespie, attorney and trustee for the Masonic Lodge, who proceeded
to erect a two-story, brick building on the site. Although Gillespie was
the actual owner of the property. it was intended that the upper portion of the structure be used as the Masonic Hall. The Columbia Lodge
of Masons had been chartered on May 5, 1853. Owning and occupying
the upper floor of the Methodist Church, South (which later became the
Presbyterian Church), as early as March 1853, the Masons continued
to meet in the cht1:rch hall until Gillespie's building was completed. As
early as December 1853, they had intended to build a large hall of
brick. but nothing materialized immediately. The church, including the
Masonic hall, being one of the major buildings of the town not burned
in the 1854 fire, was thrown open to those who had lost their homes in
the fire, along with the halls of the Odd Fellows and Sons of Temperance.
Desiring to build. after finding a suitable lot, the Masons' opportunity came when Gillespie decided to build his two story brick building on the corner of Washington and Broadway. Undoubtedly, his
decision to build had been influenced by the need for a new Masonic
Hall. In any event, the proceeds from the performance of Lee and
Marshall's circus, which was held in September on the lot adjoining the
Columbia Exchange. were don!lted for the new Masonic Hall. which was
proposed for the second story of Gillespie's building. With the commencement of the structure on October 2. 1854, and the laying of the
cornerstone by the Masons on October 18, the structure, measuring 30
feet on Broadway and 60 feet on Washington, rose rapidly. The laying of the cQrnerstone was an impressive one. In addition to band music,
the Hon. J. W. Coffroth delivered the dedicatory oration. The ·box
deposited in the cornerstone contained various gold and silver coins, a
Mormon coin, and several documents.
The Gillespie Building, one of the town's large~t. having fireproof
doors and windows, was partially constructed by November. In addition to the Masonic HaU on the second floor. the first floor was to contain one long room, and was to be occupied by a wholesale or retail
commission house. By early November, the timbers for the floor of the
second story were being laid by the contractors, Wall & Stout. Completed on November 31, 1854, so far as the bricklayers were concerned,
Gillespie intended to have it ready for lodge meetings within two weeks.
By January 1855 it was completely finished, and regular meetings were
being held by the Masons in their new hall: and on February 9, 1855,
Gillespie deeded the second floor to them, together with a 14 foot entrance on Broadway and a 9 foot wide stairway.
The Gillespie Building in 1855 is shown in the Huckel and Dresel
Lithograph of 1855. As portrayed. the brick structure was flat-roofed
with two stores. A door and two windows are to be seen on the ground
floor on Washington Street. Three windows facing Washington were
on the second floo~. This side was the entrance for the store under-

306

IRA

w. Co BURN

ARTHUR E. CLINK
JoHN A. DuLL
FRED I. INGEL

G. K. McKINLEY
CECIL D. MATHEWS
CHESTER M. SMITH
CARL V. ZACHRISSON

Reported on by the Committee on Segregation and referred to Com·
mittee on Finance.
EXHIBIT A

The Gillespie Block (Including the Masonic Hall)
One of the outstanding buildings of old Columbia was the Masonic
Hall, which was constructed by Col. C. E. Gillespie on the northeast
comer of Broadway and Washington Street~ after the. fire. of 185~.
Occupying what is now lot No. 5, Block 17, its destruct~on m 1891 is
typical of many of the fine brick structures of the town being t~rn down
for the pittance of gold which was to be found beneath their rugged
d fil d
walls.
According to what title records are available, D. E. Alexan er e
a claim to this property on December 18, 1850: and on Decem?er 9,
1852, M. Courtright filed a claim for the same property, upon which he
had previously built a house and stable. In January 1853 the house ~nd
lot on the northeast corner of Broadway and Washington, measuring
40 feet on Broadway and 52 feet on Washington, then owned b_Y 0. W.
Howell, was sold in a sheriff's sale to B. Stacy & Co. In April 1853 a
judgment against HoweJl's partner, Courtright, was secured for property
adjacent to HowelJ's. Stacy & Co. in turn sold the corner lot to C. Cardinell on August 6, 1853, for $1000. On the first floor of the three-story
frame building, which existed on the lot at that time, the St. Charles
Restaurant was opened in October 1853. The remainder of the structure, operated as the St. Charles Hotel by Cardinell, was the scene of
various of the town gatherings, induding a masquerade ball on December 25, 1853. given under the direction of Cardinell in the saloon.
In February 1854. J.. A. Cardinell & Co. became the operators of the
·
restaurant and hotel.
The St. Charles was destroyed in the fire of 1854 with a loss of
$7,000. Shortly afterward~. in September, the lot was sold to Col.

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

neath. On the Broadway side were a door and window on the first
~oor and two windows on the second. Pavement, curbing. and hitching
posts complete the scene.
Although desiring to sell his building in March 1855, Gillespie continued as the owner until April 1857. On June 25, 1855, St. John's Day,
the Masonic Hall was dedicated with impressive ceremonies. In addition to the dedication, at which Col. Whitmann was the speaker, dinner
and supper were served at the American Hotel. and a ball was held at
Ferguson's Saloon. In August 1855, the Columbia Flour and Feed
Store was being operated by D. S. Baldwin under the Masonic Hall.
. Gillesp~e. by ?ctober 1855, had almost completed another two-story
bnck building adJacent to the Masonic Hall on Broadway. With its completion by Blake & Co., contractors, the overall dimensions of the Gillespie Block were 60 feet on Washington and 80 feet on Broadway. As
stated in an advertisement in March 1856. the two two-story brick
buildings included three storerooms on the ground floor. The comer
store occupied a space of 30 by 60 feet, and the other two were 25 by 50
feet each. The hall in the second story of the new building measured 50
feet square, as compared with the 30 by 60 feet dimensions of the
Masonic Hall.
In March 1856, the Gillespie Block was fully rented. In addition to
the offices of Gillespie and Dr. J. S. Davis, M. D., a confectionery and
ice cream saloon was to be put in the hall above the two stores on Broadway. In April 1856 Gillespie, in partnership with A. Allen, established
a real estate, land and loan agency. This firm was dissolved in August,
however. Another who occupied a portion prior to the 1857 fire included
F. Cooper. who operated a grocery, drygoods, and hardware store in the
comer first occupied by Baldwin. Dr. S. Wales & Co. established the
Broadway Drug Store in the store northward in June 1856. This latter
firm, operated by S. Wales and W. P. Gibbons, was dissolved in the
latter part of July, when Gibbons became the sole owner. Wales then
started ~ doc~or's office in the second floor over the drugstore. In April
1857, G1llesp1e was succeeded ·b y T. Caldwell as the owner of the structures, with the .exception of the Masonic Hall. G. W. Spalding, attorney, also occupied an office in the Gillespie Block in April 1857.
The fire of 1857, although destroying nearby structures, failed to
damage the Gillespie Block to any extent, largely through the efforts
of several of the local citizens. After placing a pole against the Masonic
Hall, they ascended then to the roof, "closed the, hatches-fought the
flames and saved the property from destruction." A well on the property.
as well as private flumes and ditches, helped to put out the fire west of
Broadway. New tenants after the fire included the county surveyor in
the office of Dr. Gibbons, the dancing academy of A. Silversmith in 1859,
and Co. A. of the Tuolumne Home Guards in l 86J. The fire of 1861

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

309

resulted only in minor damage to the roof of the Masonic Hall, although
frame buildings nearby were destroyed. ·.
On January 13, 1863, Caldwell sold the lower floor of the comer
building to the Masons. Columbia Lodge No. 28, F. & A. M., continued
to hold its meetings in its hall. About 1860 M. Brady occupied the lower
floor, where he conducted a general merchandise store for many years.
Finally, in 1890, the Columbia Masons joined with the Sonora lodge,
and the property was sold to G. L. Mead. who tore the building down
and mined the property. The adjacent brick structure built by Gillespie
on Broadway had been demolished earlier. No evidence remains today
of the Gillespie block. Stone walls on this and adjacent lots are retaining
walls erected at the time these properties were mined.
Although the Columbia Lodge of Masons became extinct on October
15, 1891, with their consolidation with the Sonora lodge, it has been
proposed that the old Columbia lodge be revived. In so doing, the
Masonic Hall would be rebuilt on its old site, and authentic materials,
dimensions, and structural details would be followed as closely as
possible.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Without change in its membership, your Committee on Taxation
has operated during the years 1952-53. It has answered many queries
on taxation problems from officers of Grand Lodge, constituent lodges
·
and affiliated bodies.
Of unusual importance has been the query from the Committee on the
Grand Lodge Memorial Temple of the tax problems involved in the
operation of such a temple, and a special report has been made to that
committee for its use.
The resolutions proposed by Ionic Lodge No. 520, to be found on
page 66 of the Transactions of Grand Lodge for 1952 were also considered, and a special report is presented to Grand Lodge on that
problem.
This Committee has also given its attention to the present tax exempt
status of the Endowment Fund, and to potential changes in such status.
It appears to your Committee that it is of great importance that steps
be taken by this Communication of Grand Lodge to preserve the present
exempt status of the Fund. The Endowment Fund was established
originally, and has since been enlarged, as a trust fund, for the use and
benefit of the Masonic Homes. Subsequently, Grand Lodge caused the
establishment of Masonic Homes of California, a corporation, for the
primary purposes of acquiring and holding title to real and personal
property, and administering the funds belonging to it for charitable
purposes. To better effectuate this plan, your committee has prepared

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and presented a resolution to this Grand Lodge which we trust will be
·
acted on favorably.
Of interest both to Grand Lodge and the constituen t lodges is the
change in status of ritualistic officers. We have heretofore advised you
that all employees, except ritualistic employees, who are receiving $50.00
or more per calendar quarter should be reported. Because the exemption
of ritualistic officers has been omitted from the new draft of the Internal
Revenue Code, the exemption can no longer be claimed. The organist
or other ritualistic officers therefore should hereafter be included if they
are paid $50.00 or more per calendar quarter. ( 26 U.S.C.A. [b) [11) ) .

st~tus and ~~rpose .to ~lso claim the exemption under the claim of being
a fraternal organizati on.
This Committee, therefore, disapproves the Resolution.
Respectfu lly submitted.

Special Report on Exemption From Income Tax of
Donations to Masonic Temple Association
Your Committee on Taxation has given attention to the Resolution
introduced at the 103rd Communication on behalf of Ionic Lodge No.
520 to procure from the Federal Treasury Departme nt a ruling that
would allow deductions from Federal income tax for contributions made
for the building of Masonic Temples, either for Grand l.Bdge or con~
stituent lodges. Primarily. may we state that any exemption from the
payment of Federal taxes is given only by an Act of Congress. The
exemptions are very specifically stated in the Internal Revenue Act and
have ·b een strictly construed for many years. not only by the Treasury
Departme nt, but by the courts.
Your Committee is firmly convinced that there is no provision in
the Internal Revenue Code that would grant the special exemption from
income tax and which is the object of the resolution introduced. Grand
Lodge and the constituen t lodges are at the present given an exemption
for income tax as a Fraternal Association, under Section 101 ( 3) of the
Internal Revenue Act. Donations to Grand Lodge or to constituen t
lodges are deductible from income tax only if such funds are to be used
exclusively for religious. charitable. scientific, literary or educational
purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals. Deci~
sions of the courts sustain the Internal Revenue Departme nt in holding
tha_t the Masonic Order is not operated exclusively for any of those
purposes.
We believe. therefore, that it would be fruitless to petition for such
a ruling by the Treasury Departme nt.
On the question of policy involved, we of course are sympathet ic
to the object to be obtained and realize that from a practical standpoin t
it would be of great benefit to those lodges that are dependen t upon
contributions for the building of their temples. To secure such an exemp~
tion however. would necessitat e the promotion of a bill before Congress
giving special exemption for such contributions. It would seem unwiseto mention the Masonic Order as such, and any general exemption
would probably be effective in allowing many organizati ons of doubtful

!o the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
The following is a statement of the Masonic Temple Association of
California , Incorpora ted, for the fiscal year ended Septembe r 30, 1953:
Assets
................................... . $ 12,662.06
.................
_
.
.................
Cash .................
Accounts receivabl e-tenants
352.50
-~~t ............................... .
Investmen ts in stocks and bond;--;~
..
...........
.................
..
155,003.99
.
p
_roperty - depreciate d value............ - .................................. 670,294.90

310

311

R. P. WISECARV ER
}AMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YORK .
REPORT OF MASON IC TEMPLE ASSOCI ATION OF
CALIFO RNIA, INCORP ORATE D

TOTAL ASSETS ...................................................................................................... $838,313.45
Liabilities and Capital
................................................ $ 4,037.24
.................
.................
~iabilities
apital stock and Surplus........................................................ 834,276.21
TOTAL LIABILIT IES AND CAPITAL . ............... $838,313.45
Income
................................... $ 72,646.50
.................
.................
.................
~entals
8,427.95
ividends and interest ........................................................... .
P
1,915.39
577.62

s~~~~~:;~:eo~--~~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

TOTAL INCOME .................................................. .. $ 83,567.46
Expenses
Total expenses ...................................................................... .. $ 61,702.10

~ income for the year........................................................... $ 21,865.36
s dividends paid ................................................................

9,869.89

~et increase to surplus............................................................

11,995.47
urplus balance October 1, ·1952................................. :.......... $155,492.45

Surplus balance September 30, 1953...................................... $167,487.92

312

.313

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON FINANCE

activity has caused Moody's Investment Service to revise their fees, and,
therefore, the Investment Committee which has been supervising the
review of Lodge portfolios, has recommended that the fee be increased
to $4000.00 per annum, and your Finance Committee concurs in this recommendation.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your ~ommittee on Finance has given careful consideration to all of
the matters which have been referred to it by Grand Lodge, and its recommendations follow.
In those cases in which special reference seems advisable, detailed
comments are made, otherwise, the items appear in the list of proposed
expenditures after having been discussed with the various Boards and
Committees and also with the Grand Lodge officers. These Committees
and Boards have been very courteous, as well as efficient, in estimating
their needs for the coming year, and we are very appreciative of this.
AUDIT OP ACCOUNTS

We have followed the practice of previous years and have caused the
accounts of the Grand Lodge, the Endowment Fund and the Masonic
Homes to be audited, and these audit reports by our Brother Walter A.
Parker have been reviewed by the members of your Committee. These,
and 'the reports of the Grand Treasurer, and the Grand Secretary, in
our opinion, represent the true condition of the finances of Grand Lodge,
the Endowment Fund and the Masonic Homes. We are appreciative of
the cooperation of Brother Parker in making available to us all the details relating to the finances of Grand Lodge, and are convinced that
he is making a valuable contribution to Masonry in this work. We have
provided an increase in his fee for special services which he is rendering
to this Committee.
BONDS AND INSURANCE

At the last Annual Communicatio n this Committee concurred in the
recommendation of the Grand Secretary, with reference to the possible
liability which the Lodges might incur by reason of failing to carry
Workmen's Compensation Insurance as required by state law. As a result of this recommendation, a special committee on insurance was appointed by the Grand Master and made its report on July 24, 1953. In
accordance with this report, and with the concurrence of the chairman
of your Committee on Finance, the Grand Master ordered blanket coverage for Workmen's Compensation· for all of the Lodges of California,
as of August 1, 1953. The cost of this insurance is approximately
$5000.00, and this has been included in our budget as a special item.
INVESTMENT COUNSEL FOR LoDGES

The Grand Treasurer in his report makes reference to the use that is
being made by the constituent lodges of the advice of Investment Counsel provided by the Grand Lodge. At the time this service was instituted,
the Investment Counsel estimated that a fee of $3000.00 per annuaa
would be adequate, and they have been operating on that basis for t~e
last two years. However, increased participation by the Lodges in th..

CENTENNIAL COMMITTEE SURPLUS

After our Centennial celebration, the Centennial Committee refunded
to the Lodges a portion of the unexpended funds which had been collected previously through a special per capita tax. A portion of the remaining balance has been used for the preparation of a "Commemorative Volume" which has been distributed, and there now remains to the
credit of the Committee the sum of $5,822.93. We are advised that
there is no further need for these funds by the Centennial Committee,
and, therefore, recommend that the balance of $5,822.93 be transferred
to the California Masonic Memorial Temple Fund.
THE GRAND LODGE OP THE NETHERLANDS

The Grand Master reported in his Message that after consulting
with various officers of Grand Lodge, he had caused $2500.00 to be
remitted to the Grand Lodge of the Netherlands as a relief fund to be
used to relieve the distress resulting from the flood in that country. Your
Committee on Finance concurs in this use of Grand Lodge funds, and
recommends that the action of the Grand Master be approved.
GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL

Your Committee has reviewed with interest the report of the committee of this great project. We note that over the period of years, this
Grand Lodge has contributed $387,739.95, and that by the most liberal
computation, this leaves a net balance due on our quota of $75,922.40,
and that there is now on hand from the returns of Lodges, the sum of
$41,678.85. We concur in the recommendation of the committee that
this sum be paid into the Endowment Fund of the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial at the time of the forty-fifth annual meeting of that Association. This will leave an unpaid balance of some $34,000.00, and a continuation of the 15c per capita during the coming year
should complete our committment to the Association. We, therefore,
propose the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED: That the per capita levy of 15c for the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial be continued during the current Grand Lodge year, and that the funds now on hand, $41.678.85, be
remitted to the Endowment Fund of the George Washington Masonic
National Memorial.
TEHACHAPI AND MARICOPA BUILDINGS

At the time of the last Annual Communication, ' the earthquake
Which wrecked both of these buildings had occurred only a few weeks

315

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORN IA

before, and both of these Lodges sought assistanc e from the Grand
Lodge in building their Temples . However , sufficient time had not
elapsed to permit the brethren to consider any definite plans for rebuilding, and it was the feeling of this Committee, as well as of the
Committee on Lodge Financin g, that although they were entirely sympathetic with the brethren of the two communities, they could not recommend the use of Grand Lodge funds until definite plans had been
completed. ·Therefo re, by order of Grand Lodge, the matter was left in
the hands of the incoming Grand Master who was authorized, with the
concurrence of the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the chairman of the Committ ee on Lodge Financin g, to use such funds of Grand
Lodge for the rebuilding of the two Temples as might in their judgeme nt
be justified. Both the officers and members of both Lodges have proceeded with diligence to raise money for the purpose of rebuilding these
buildings. The plans of the Tehacha pi brethren had proceeded to such
a point that in April the chairman of the Committee on Finance, and
the chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financin g approved a request
to the Grand Master for the sum of $10,000.00 to be advjinced for this
project, and the money was paid over to the Tehacha pi Temple Association. Sometime later, a similar authoriza tion was given for an advance
to the Maricop a brethren , but that money has no~ yet been paid over:
The brethren of Tehacha pi now find themselves in the embarras sing
position of not having enough funds to complete their building, and in
addition have contracte d bills for which they have not the funds to pay.
They have held a number of conferences with the members of both Committees and while we have the utmost sympath y for them in their project,
neither of the Committees has felt that further Grand Lodge funds should
be used for the purpose of paying their debts, or for the completion of
their building, and, therefore , no appropri ation is recommended at this
time. However , we are advised that the building is in such an unfinished
state that certain funds may be needed to preserve it during the coming
winter months and we believe that there should be some authoriza tion
given by which such funds may be advanced in a modest amount. While
we are not advised as to any further needs on the part of the Maricop a
brethren , we believe that the same authoriza tion should be extended to
the~. We, therefore , offer the following resolution and move its adop ..
tion:
Resolved: That the incoming Grand Master, the chairman of the
Committee on Finance and the chairman of the Committee on Lodge
Financin g, are authoriz ed to extend such assistanc e to the brethren of
Tehacha pi and Maricop a Lodges in their building projects as it may in
their judgmen t be decided upon.

during the coming year. We understa nd that this proposal has the support of the incoming Grand Master, and that there are possibilities that
the issuing of such reports may develop into a very desirable means of
communication with the members of the Grand Lodge. It is difficult to
estimate the cost of this project, but the Committee advises that after
having discussed the matter with the Grand Secretar y regardin g the cost
of the printing, that the amount should not be less than $4000.00. Whil~
we are in sympath y with this project, we feel that due to the present state
of our finances, the appropri ation should be limited to $3000.00.

314

CORRESP ONDENCE . CoMMITT E.E.

We have reviewed with interest the report of the Correspo ndence
Committee and the proposal of that Committ ee to issue quarterly reports

REVISION OP Ross DIGEST

We have noted from the report of the Committee on the Revision of
Ross Digest that certain funds will be needed for stenogra phic services
during the coming year, and we have provided a sum of $1200.00 to cover
·
this item.
CALIFOR NIA MASONIC MEMORI AL TEMPLE.

Your Committee has reviewed that part of the Californ ia Masonic
Memoria l Temple Committee report with reference to the recommendation of the $1.00 per annum per capita tax. We have considered the proposal that this $1.00 per capita tax be made a constitutional provision.
We note that this suggesti on is made for the purpose of giving adequate
assuranc e to the Masons of Californ ia that there is no idea of levying in
the future, assessments or per capita of a larger amount. The point also
is made that should it be made a part of the constitution, it would take
a 5/6 vote to change it, and also that such fixed requirem ents in the constitution might be helpful in arrangin g long-term financing. Your Committee on Finance concurs that this proposal was well worth considering,
however, we feel also that there are sufficiently good reasons for not
making this $1.00 per capita tax a part of the constitution, but to leave
it to the sound discretion of each Annual Commun ication to fix its own
per capita tax. If the matter were left to each Annual Communication,
there would not, of course, be the assuranc e that the per capita tax would
be kept at $1.00, and it might be possible that it may be higher or it may
be lower, but we are firmly of the conviction that if our project for a new
Memorial Temple is to be a success, it must be as a result of a continuing
effort and that each year the members of Grand Lodge should be asked
to renew their confidence in the project by renewing such per capita tax
for building purposes as may be necessary. We, therefore , recommend,
with the concurrence of the Jurisprudence Committee to which this part
of the report was referred, that the per capita tax of $1.00 per member
for Memoria l Building Funds be continued during the coming year, and
propose the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved: That a per capita tax of $1.00 be levied during the coming
year and the proceeds be paid into the Californ ia Masonic Memoria l
Temple Fund.

316

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

TRAVEL EXPENSES
In discussing with the auditor the details of the travel expenses, we
have come to the conclusion that a misapprehension exists as to the use
of travel expenses. Without any sense of criticism, and without reflection
on any individual, we feel that there should be one standard for payment
of expenses in connection with travel, and we believe that this can be
divided into two categories:
1. Expenses for the attendance at Grand Lodge.
2. Expenses incurred by individuals while traveling on Grand Lodge
business during the recess of Grand Lodge.
So far as expenses for the attendance at Grand Lodge are concerned,
the method of payment is provided for in Section 66 of our Ordinances,
and we are of the opinion that no person should receive any greater sum
than that provided for in that Section, unless such expenditure is de8nitely authorized by the Grand Master or by our ordinances, regardless of
the fact that certain meetings may be held to coincide with the annual
Communication.
So far as other traveling expenses during the recess of the Grand
Lodge are concerned, we believe that each person traveling on Grand
Lodge business should receive his necessary traveling expenses, including
mileage, hotel. meals and incidentals, upon presenting to the Grand Secretary a proper voucher for such expenses; that at each meeting of every
Board and Committee held in the interests of Grand Lodge, that the
Chairman or Secretary of such Committee or Board shall certify to the
Grand Secretary the list of those persons attending such meeting entitled
to travel allowances; that this shall apply to all traveling expenses whether paid out of appropriations approved by Grand Lodge or whether paid
out of other Grand Lodge funds. If this meets the approval of the Grand
Lodge, we request that this information be communicated by the Grand
Secretary to all Boards and Committees affected.
MASONIC HOMES
Your Committee has reviewed with interest the report of the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes, and have consulted with them as to their needs
for the coming year. Last year on the recommendation of this Committee,
a per capita tax of 75c was levied by Grand Lodge for the beneflt of the
Masonic Homes. This year it is felt that a per capita tax of 50c will be
sufficient, although it should be borne in mind that the proper maintenance of our Homes is our major responsibility and that this per capita tax
may require adjustment in f~ture years. We, therefore, propose the following resolution and move its adoption:
R~solved: That the sum of 50c per capita be levied for the present
fiscal year, the proceeds to be paid to the Trustees of the Masonic Homes.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

317

BUDGET
Your Committee has had considerable difficulty in arriving at a budget which we believed was reasonable to present to the Grand Lodge. The
total of all the requests for appropriations and estimates for the expenses
for the coming year total a sum which we felt to be considerably out of
line with that which we should recommend to you for your consideration.
Consequently, we have made a considerable effort to reduce the total to
be somewhat in line with that of the expenses for the past year. In doing
this we have made certain changes in appropriations bringing the totals
to less than the amount requested, but we feel that with care, the appropriations can be made to cover the purposes needed. Previously, we referred to the committment of $10,000.00 for the Maricopa Temple and
we are not including that in the present budget, feeling that for the present, when required, it should be a surplus expenditure.
The estimated budget follows:
ADMINISTRATIVE & OFFICE
Salaries
··········-·······························...........:........._.......... ..J.L.. L•- ~
~ 40,900.00
R

A:~~t··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~~:~~

Grand Treasurer ........................................................................
Postage and Express......................................................! ...... ~...
~lephone and Telegraph..........................................................
nds, Supplies, Sundry......,.....................................................
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes..............................
Investment ·Counsel ....................................................................

1,600.00
2,500.00
1.500.00
2,200.00
1,000.00
900.00

TOTAL .............--········-··················································--····-$ 57,900.00
GENERAL EXPENSE
Annual Communication .....................................................-4 14,000.00
Conferences ........................................... ~~ .................~ ....:...........:
1,500.00
Grand Lodge Officers-Travel Expense.......................~-------·
5,000.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler............................................ .
400.00
Grand Master:
Travel Expense ....................................................................
7,000.00
L Miscellaneous ..................................................................... .
1,750.00
odge Insurance ....................................................................... .
5,000.00
1nvestment Counsel for Lodges......... - .....................................
4,000.00
Grand Master's Portraits......................................................... .
2,000.00
27,850.00
20,000.00

~:~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::

318

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ritualistic Exp ens e:
600.00
··········-·········:·,··--. 1,000.00
·····
-~···
·-···
·~···
·····
·····
...
·-··•
r
ture
Gra nd Lec
ery...................................
Ins pec tors ' Ap ron s and Sta tion
000.00
···-····-•• 10,
-r-·····•·····
·····
·····
··-··
·····
·····
·········
00.00
·····
e
2,0
ens
Exp
......
_
.
vel
Tra
........................................
.00
Relief Fun d, Gra nd Ma ste r.....
900
····· ·-·- -·-· ····· ····· ·--· ····. ·-·- .-.
00
00.
2,0
Retirement Pa y- ·-· ···· ····· --··
···········-···············
·····
·····
·····
·-···
...
......
......
_
..
00
.....
00.
s
2,0
Ve tera n But ton
···- ··-· ··-· ····· ··
·····
·····
·········
·····
·····
··-·
·····
--Miscellaneous ---.00
000
07,
$1
.....
.....
...............................
ToTAL ............... ..... ...... .......... .....
. $ 4,000.00
··· 1,000.00
··-·
APPROPRIATION
···.-·r
......
......
......
......
......
Activities Committee ;..................
... 1,000.00
......
_...
...
......•......................,.....
Bo ard of Conttol.""............-....
2,000.00
·
····,·
··-···•··
........................ ,........::
Ch arte rs Committee ...............
500.00
····
·····················"'····················-·
00.00
Columbia Tem ple ····················
3,0
·
·····
·····
···············
···································
750.00
....
,....
...•.
•....
Con stit utio n Mo nth ·····
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
Co rres pon den ce Committee .....
16,220.00
················································
9,000.00
De Mo lay Committee ·······-······· ··········································:;··
·····
Employment Bur eau ···············
100.00
···································-···········
500.00
End ow me nt Board ···················· tion ······································
His tor y Committee and Publica
100.00
···········-················-···················
250.00
Hy am Por trai t ·······················-· ····· ···-· ····· ····· ····· ·-··· ·-··- ··-·
····Soj our ner s Committee ···-· ·····
1,450.00
··---···-··············································-·
00.00
3,5
-···
Information Committee ·····.....
...........·-·· ····· ····· ····· ·····
Lodge Fin anc e Committee .....
00.00
1,5
···
---·
································-- -:-.00
075
Public School Week.-··············
40,
..
·•...
·····
·····
········--·-·····················-· ..........._..
1,200.00
Publications Committees·····
.....
.....
~
...
.....
.....
.....
.....
Un ive rsit y Clu b Ho use ..........
........................._ ......-.......- - - - .
···-······-·
·····
D
·····
Ross 1gest -·············-·····
86,145.00
···············--·-TOTAL ·-····-·---:-··-·······----·····
• $ 57,900.00
RECAPITULAnO Nlce................................................._."'l" 'I • 107 000.00
Administrative and Oft
············ 86.,145.00
········:······......
···············.......
... _.....~·----_
..
ens e ······························
.......
.......
.......
Ge ner al Exp
·
.
.....
.....
. s .........................
. tion
Ap pro pria
251 ;045·00
AL. .....;...............................~$
RECAPITULATION GRAND TOT
ENSE
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXP
954
3-1
195
00
12.00
9,3000
.................. $2315
ges
Lod
····
$254,312.00
D ues f rom
····················
.
•
ents............
estm
Inv
from
e
om
Inc
ted
ima
Est
f ,045.00
Items........................................ $!S
Ap pro pria tion s and Bu dge ted
. ............ ..........•.~...... 3,2.67.00
. ..........
.....
ESTIMATED S URPLUS •....... ~....

-··-··--······.$

'

319

pos ed
d income bar ely co:vers the pro
You will not e tha t the ant icip ate e made in reduction. We feel, how we hav
t no inbud get despite the efforts tha t
ands ma de on Gra nd Lodge, tha
dem
vy
hea
ever, tha t despite the
sho uld
be made, but tha t the tota l tax
crease in per cap ita tax sho uld therefore, propose the following res o,
rem ain the same as las t yea r. We
lution and move its ado ptio n:
per
constitutional provision for 50c
Resolved: Th at in add itio n to the ita be levied for the ensuing yea r
. per cap
capita, tha t an additional 75censes o( Gra nd Lodge.
exp
ing
pay
of
e
pos
for the pur
owing
l of the per cap ita for the foll
Following, therefore, is the tota
yea r:
..........•.......~.... ~ ............ $1.00
Memorial Tem ple ...........:..........
Ma son ic Memorial.... .15
Ge org e Wa shi ngt on Na tion al
................................... .50
Masonic Homes .........................
nd Lodge.,................ .50
Co nst itut ion per cap ita for Gra
nd Lodge...................... .75
Ad diti ona l per cap ita for Gra
$2.90
Ad opt ed.

SE CT IO N 749 (a) DELETED

Lod ge
s called the atte ntio n of Gra nd
Th e Committee on Publication mittee tha t Section 749 (a) of the
tion of their Com
to the recommenda
Dig est be deleted.
il the nex t
of this ma tter be postponed unt
A motion tha t consideration
eated.
An nua l Communication was def
tter s of
t the ent ire section covered ma
Th e Gra nd Ma ste r ruled tha
er.
for deletion wa s in ord
policy onl y and tha t the motion
prevailed.
Th e motion to del ete the section

JEW EL OF JU DG E AD VO CA

TE

eto the Special Committee on Cer
Th e Gra nd Ma ste r has refe rred new ly cre ate d office of Jud ge Ad vothe
ony.
monies the ma tter of a jewel for
t officer in the installation cerem
tha
cate and suitable provision for
t he
tha
d
has alre ady been determine
We have been advised tha t it ointive officers and shall be sea ted
ong the app
shall tak e precedence amthe
Gra nd Ma ster .
of
ht
rig
at the immediate
emblems
possible jewels composed of
We have considered several
several
find
We
administration of justice.
. We
use
commonly associated wit h the
in
ady
alre
lls,
rds, books and scro
variations on the themes of swo

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the scales of justice,
therefore recommend that the well-known emblem,
be adop ted.
the Judge Advo On behalf of the committee, I move that the jewel of
.
cate be: a balance, in equipoise.
the installation of
The Committee also repor ted recommendations for
ceremony as prea Judge Advocate and for changes in the installation
viously adop ted at this Communication.
The entire repor t was adopted.

ANN UAL ELE CTIO N

320

DED ICA TIO N OF A PUBLIC SCH OOL BUI LDIN

G

a repor t proposing
The Special Committee on Ceremonies submitted
ing."
a "Cere mony of Dedication of a Public School Build
adopted.
The ceremony as proposed by the Committee was
had been asThe Gran d Mast er emphasized that all matters which
now been completed,
signed to the Special Committee on Ceremonies had
the appreciation of
them
to
ssed
expre
He discharged the Committee and
they had completed
this Gran d Lodge for the splendid manner in which
the work assigned to them. .

RITU AL FOR JUD GE ADV OCA TE
a repor t amendThe chairman of the Committee on Ritual presented
de the processional
ing the opening ceremony of Gran d Lodge to inclu
nses applying to his
position of the Judg e Advocate and the several respo
office.
The repor t of the Committee was adop ted.
the Gran d Lodge
The Gran d Mast er pointed out that at his request
ing sessions as folhad been called up at the opening of the several morn
lows:
g the longest term
Mon day- -Clar k H. Shaw, as the Inspe ctor havin
of service ( 42 years ) .
d Mast er's Lodge
Tues day- Carl P. McC arthy . W.M . of the Gran
(Mt. Davidson No. 481 ).
ty Gran d ~aster's
Wed nesd ay-E dwin T. Clark, W.M . of the Depu
Lodge (Beverly Hills No. 528).
Gran d Ward en's
Thur sday -Edi son K. Quick, W.M . of the Senior
Lodge (Ingl eside No. 630).
Ward en's Lodge
Frida y-Ll oyd P. Bass, W.M . of the Junior Gran d
(Loy alty No. 529) .
- Adopted.

321

arrived for the
The Gran d Mast er announced that the hour had
d Secre tary to read the Sections
Annual Ele~tio~ and directed the Gran
.
same
the
to
of the Constitution applying
brethren to serve
T he Gran d Mast er then appo inted the following
as t el1ers:
Clovis J. Robert, Past Mast er, Penta lpha No. 202.
G. Elmo Hall, Mast er,' Franc is Drak e No. 376.
Earle Stevens, Senior Ward en, Penta lpha No. 202.
202.
Fred A. Lofvendahl, Junior Ward en, Penta lpha No.
No. 278.
ornia
Calif
ern
South
Haro ld V. Spen der, Past Mast er,
309.
No.
no
Glad ney L. Hamilton, Mast er, Dela
Roy Adams, Senior Ward en, Delan o No. 309.
Mari on L. Smith, Junior Ward en, Delano No. 309.
Jack E. Anderson, Past Mast er, Ramona No. 457.
Clarence E. Burr, Mast er, San Pasq ual No. 452.
Walt er R. Koenig, Senior Ward en, Utop ia No, 537.
Glenn W. Mettl er, Junio r Ward en, Utop ia No. 537.
Joseph M. Ruggiero, Past Mast er, Presi dio No. 354.
Douglas A. Tack er, Mast er, Ange les Mesa No. 625.
Norm an Smith, Senior Ward en, Barstow No. 682.
John J. Garri~on, Junior Ward en, Victorville No. 634.
Robert S. Ryerson, Senio r Ward en, Service No. 594.
535.
Archie J. Bush, Past Mast er, Alex ande r Ham ilton No.
538,
Eddi e R. Daffin, Mast er, Asco t No.
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Mast er, Mill Valle y No. 356.
Carl e. Rozzen, Mast er, Meno rah No. 623.
No. 657.
Arth ur B. Shoot, Senior Ward en, John D. Spreckels
Robert B. Yager, Junior Ward en, Arro yo No. 274.
Harr y E. Davis, Past Mast er, Arro yo No. 274.
..
Hans E. Warn cke, Past Mast er, Herm ann No. 127.
574.
William M. Flenniken, Mast er, S. W. Hack ett No.
No. 574.
ett
Robert C. Whit ing, Senior Ward en, S. W. Hack
No. 574.
Thom as H. Cann , Junio r Ward en, S. W. Hack ett
Earl E. Whit ney, Mast er, Teha chap i No. 313.
548.
Glen M. Chitwood, Senio r Ward en, Trian gle No.
3.
Haro ld C. Schroder, Junio r Ward en, Teha ma No.
369.
No.
e
Lodg
Fran ke. Wolff, Past Mast er, Ocea n Park

322

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

GRAN D LODGE OFFICERS

.
At 2:15 P.M. Grand Lod N' Fnday,
October 16, 1953
siding.
ge was called on the Grand M as t er pre-

The R. W. Frank Harwell. Jr., Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, was
elected
TheGrand
R. W.Master.
Henry C. Clausen, Ingleside Lodge No. 630, was elected

AFTER NOON SESSIO

Deputy
Master.
. was
The Grand
R. W. Edgar
V. Stewart; Jr., Loyalty Lodge No. 529,
elected Senior
Grand
Warden .
The W.
L. Harold
Anderson, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, was elected
Junior
Warden
. V. Keesling, Past Grand
TheGrand
M. W.
Francis
Master. California
Lodge No. I, was re-elected Grand Treasure r.
The M. W. Lloyd E, Wilson. Past Grand Master. Ingleside Lodge
No. 630. was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V . W. Elbert W. Davi!!. Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571.
was re . .elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand . Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Kermit Castellanos, Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell. North Butte Lodge
No. 230: Ralph M. Foote, Valley Lodge No. 135: Arthur J. Kahn. Paul
Revere Lodge No. 462: Raymond C. Taylor, Libertas Lodge No. 466:
Guy B. Mize, Unity Lodge No. 368: Augustus H. Allen, Santa Ana
Lodge
No. Orator,
241. Herbert A.
Grand
Heubner, Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
Assistant Grand Treasure r.'Paul A. P6ueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary. Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge
No.360.
Grand Marshal. Keith W. Schlaegel, Gardena Lodge No. 372.
Grand Standard Bearer, Charles Frank Maynard , Imperial Lodge
No.390.
Grand Sword Bearer, Martin G. De Haan, West Gate Lodge No.
335.Grand Bible Bearer, Otho Stewart, Fort Crook Lodge
No. 575.
Senior Grand Deacon, N. Carl Peters. Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528.
Junior Grand Deacon. Ben L. Irwin, Fairview Lodge No. 629.
Senior Grand Steward , Robert A. Smith. Midway Lodge No. 426.
Junior Grand Steward, Albert Louis Claytor, Maui Lodge No. 472.
Grand Pursuivant, Edward H. Pitcher, Piedmont Lodge No. 521.
Grand Organist , Charles E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler. Alvin A. Horwege, Woodsto ck Lodge No. 491.
The Grand Secretar y announced the appointment by the Grand
Master-elect of Past Grand Master Charles M. Wollenb erg and of Leo
E. Anderson as Trustees of the Masonic Homes for terms of three years
each. and of Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren to fill the unexpired
termAt
of 12:45
L. Harold Anderson.
P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 P.M.

323

INSTA LLATI ON OF OF

The Most Worship ful Ellsworth M
FICERS
~s Master of Ceremonies,
and th
eyer, Past Grand· Master, acted
installed by the Retiring G d Me officers, elected and appointed
install t'
ran
aster in ace d
• were
Tha ion ceremony as adopted
at .this C
o~ a~ce with the revised
e newly installed Grand M
. ommumcation of Grand Lod e
G<and Masttt' s lapel button. aster mvested his p<edecessor
Chas. Albert Adams insi .
to theheincumbe
nt Grand Mast gn~ was transferred from the ret' .
the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.er, an the other chair officers
The J. Everett Houser la el .
to the
incumbent Grand Orat!. pm was transferred from the retirin
Past Grand Master Arthu M
with a lapel pin which had
be r
. ~ arren invested .the Grand T'l g
that it might be worn by Brot'::'er
actured at bis direction in ord::
wh1¥1hhe is held and to be transfered ~~~ge .as a m~rk of the esteem in
ble . e GfrGand Master called upon the
m;uCehbme•.to his successor.
s~ng o od.
ran
aplam to invoke the

p.,~

wii: ~

excha:~:~

mi't"

G,

.
he Most Worship ful Louis Cl d
.
Mvested the Retiriog Grand Mast au ~ ~i."'""· Past
Grand Master
aster. The Most Worship ful u:r tit t apron of a Past Grand
and .Grand Secretary. on behalf of rh E. ~ilson, Past Grand Master
sen~ed a gift to Mrs. Ar.thur M. Wa~r=em ers. of Grand Lodge, preJuruor Past Grand Master in her heh IE n and it was accepted by the
At 3:40 p M all b .
a .
closed in
due £~rm .. ,
usmess being
completed, Grand Lodge was

~

~~

~·

Grand Master

the Most Worship ful Oaude H. Morriso n p
Grand Master to continue hi
. ' .G.M. was designat ed b
Lodge Commit tee on Finance ; ;:rvices as chairma n of the
the sad word was received . f ; se~uently, on Novemb er 2 1953
0
Orleana.
ro er :tWorrison's death
Ne,;

Gran~

in

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

325

SPECIAL APPENDI X
CONTENTS
Page
Budget for 1953-54 ---------···--·······r-··········-··-·····--·-·-······-········-·--···--Audit of Annual Returns-1953 -·--·-··-·····--················-········-···-·-----

326
327

Financial Report-Gran d Lodge:
Auditor's Certification -·--·--·-···--·····-···----·-··················---··--·-····
328
Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities ................330-331
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and
Disbursements ····--·-----···-~·--·····--········--·--·····-·---------·--······332-3:33
Grand Lodge Audit --···········-············-···········-·····-···-···············
334
Financial Report-Endow ment Fund:
Auditor's Certification ······························-············--·-··--·-------Endowment Fund Audit --------·-----------------------------------······-·---Financial Report-Maso nic Homes:

344
346

Auditor's Certification -----------------------··-------·-·---··--····--··--·-----··
Balance Sheet -----------------·--··--------------------··---------------------.--·-----Cash Receipts and Disbursements -----·······-···········-············-····
Statemen.t of Revenue and Expenses ·--···-······-·······-···-··········
Securities Owned ····-·······-··--··································-················
Statistical:

353
356
365
364
357

Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund ............
Details .of Masonic Homes -·-··········--··············-······--··-··········
Number of Residents, Decato and Covina ·--··········-······
Per Capita Cost Decato and Covina ······················-·-···
Contributions to Special Funds ················-···-···············
Annual Returns-1952 ·······--·-·······---··-·····-·-·-···-------,··-·-·----··-

369
380
397
397
398
399

326

BUDGET FOR 1953-1954
The Finance Committee proposed the following budget for ·t he current fiscal year:
Administrative and Office

Information Committee ......................................................
Lodge Finance Committee..·-······-···-·····-········-··-····-·····
Public School Week.-··--··-······-··-··-··-··-·-·····--·······
Ross Digest ···········-··-··-··-·-···-·······-·······························
Sojourners Committee ···········-··-··························-···········
Publications Committee ·······························-·····················
University Clubhouses -·-·····-;····-··············-···-···············

250.00
1,450.00
3,500.00
1,200.00
100.00
1,500.00
40,075.00
$86,145.00

TOTAL···············-···················································

Salag~~ Secretary ........................................$16,800.~g

Assistant Grand Secretary ...................... 9,000.
Other Help ···················································· 15,100.00 $406,900000.0000
1' 300.00
Rent ··-····-····-··········-············································-··-··-·······
1'500'00
Audit ·······-··-········-·-··-······-····-··········-·················---··
' .
2,500.00
Grand Treasurer ···-······-········--··············-······················-···
1 500 00
Postage & Express ....................·-·-·····--·······-··-··-······-···
2'200'00
Telephone & Telegraph ···-····-··-······-·-· ...··-····-··-···
1
1 000°00
Bonds, Supplies, Sundry ·······-··-··························-·--····
•900."oo
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes......... ·-········
__
Investment Counsel ............................................................._ _..._

.AUDIT OF 1953 RETURNS

$57,900.00

TOTAL ···············-······-·······-·-··········..•·····...······-···
General Expense
Annual Communication ···········-··················-············-······· $14,000.00
~.ggg·gg
Conferences ··-···········-.··············-··-··········-··-··--·-·-···········
'400:00
Grand Lodge Officers: Travel.........................·-··········-···
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler......................................
7,000.00
Grand Master:
750 00
Travel -·-··-······-······················-··········-··-··-········-·······
l, · 0
Miscellaneous ·······-····· ..·······-·-·-·········-··-··-··-·········
4,000.0
Investment Counsel for Lodges ....... ·-·················-····-····
5,000.00
Lodge Insurance ···-·--··-·-·-··-······--··············-·····-····
Portrait, Grand Master............·-·························-·---··-··· 272,oog.gg
·~8 0· 00
Pay of Members..............................·-········-················-·······
Printing ···-··-····-······-·····;····-··-······-··-·-··········-············· 20, ·

~~~~ -·································-······-···············
Ritu(J~~
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery..........................

327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

600.00
1,000.00
10,ogg-gg
20

Travel Expense ··················-..·-······-···...."·-······-···-·
• · 0
Relief Fund, Grand Master............. ·-·······-··············-·······
Retirement Pay ···-··········-··············-··················-···········-··
2, ·
Veteran Buttons ···············-·················•-············-········-·······
........,00...
Miscellaneous ···········-····················--·····················-············---;•000
$107,000.00
TOTAL ···········-··-··········-·-····--·•-..········-······-···

ggg·&o

Appropriations
$ 4,000.00
Activities Committee ·······································-········-·······
1,000.00
Board of Control ···-··-·····················································-·
1,000.00
Charters Committee ·····-········-············-·······-··-···············
2,000.00
Columbia Temple ···························-··············-··-·-·-·····-..
500.00
···········-·················-······-········-······-···
Month
Constitution
3,000.00
Correspondence Committee ................................................
750.00
DeMolay Committee ················································-·······-· 16,220.00
Employment Bureaus ···-··-··············-····-··········-···············
9,000.00
Endowment Board -·-······-·····································-···········
100.00
History Committee ···-··-··········-··-···-·-·······-··-·-·--···
500.00
----Hyam Portrait-·--· - - -

September 29, 1953
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the current 1953 annual returns from constituent Lodges
up to and including September 29, 1953. As determined from the returns,
the following amounts are collectible:
Grand Lodge:
Degrees conferred ··-···········-··························.28,493 @ $1.00 $ 28,493.00
Per Cfl.pita:
1953 membership ···························-··········.213,639
Less, dues remitted ···········-······················· 2,820
Net ···-··-··-···-·-·-·-··-··-··--····-·····-·····210,819

@

2.15

453,260.85

481,753.85
Total due ···············-······-···..················· .. ··············-·······
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.......................... ·-··· 480,367.95

.

Balance due ··-··--···-·----·--·--·----·...--··-··---.$ 1,385.90
Masonic Homes:
Fourth quarter 1953, $25.00 contributions ···--····-·····-·····-·-··-···· 84,325.00
Per capita- 210,819 members @ $.75 ..................................... -,..... 158,114.25
Total due ·······-······-··········-·-···········-····-··-········-·······························$242,439.:IJ
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer .............................. 242,439.25
George Washington Memorial Endowment:
Contributions:
Fourth quarter 1953, $1.00 contributions ··-·-··--...-··-····-·········-* 3,050.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer..·-······················-··· 3,050.00
AU returns have been received and paid in full with the amount shown
by the returns as computed. The balance still due represents errors made
in various returns and are now in process of collection.
Respectfully submitted
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
WALTER A. PARKER

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAN D LODGE AUDI T
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Californ ia
San Francisc o, Californ ia
Gentlem en:

October 1, 1953

of the
We have audited the books of account and financia l records
July
ended
year
fiscal
the
for
RNIA
CALIFO
of
M.
A.
&
F.
LODGE
GRAND
nts:
stateme
g
followin
the
h
herewit
present
and
31, 1953
Consolid ated Stateme nts
or
Exhibit AA: Consolid ated stateme nt of assets and liabilitie s, owned
under control of Grand Lodge, as of Juy 31, 1953.
Exhibt BB: Consoli dated stateme nt of cash receipts and disburse ments,
1953.
for funds of, or controll ed by Grand Lodge, August 1, 1952 to July 31,
Grand Lodge
Exhibit A: Stateme nt of assets and liabilitie s, July 31, 1953.
Schedul e 1: List of securitie s owned, July 31, 1953.
Schedul e lA: Stateme nt of Memori al Temple Building Fund.
1,
Exhibit B: Stateme nt of cash receipts and disburse ments, August
1952 to July 31, 1953.
Schedul e 2: Stateme nt of Grand Lodge per capita dues collecte d from
1952 annual returns.
Schedul e 3: Compar ison of budget and expendi tures, 1952-53.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasur er's stateme nt of cash receipts and disburse
ments, August 1, 1952 to July 31, 1953.
Exhibit D: Grand Secretar y's resume of cash reecived , Augst 1, 1952
to July 31, 1953.
Schedul e 4: Stateme nt of Masonic Homes per capita dues and $25.00
contribu tions collecte d during the year 1952-53.

Comme nts
this report, the combine d assets of Grand
of
As shown on Exhibit AA
$11,000,Lodge, the Masonic Homes and the Endowm ent Fund now exceed
shows that
000.00; an increase ·of $800,000.00 over last year. Exhibit dBB
by these three
over $2,000,000.00 was received and a like amount disburse purchae
of seentities. Over one-half of the disburse ments were for the
the funds, and to
curities and other assets, for the transfer of cash among maintai
ns an ademeet the obligati ons of the various funds. Grand Lodgefl.ow of money,
and
quate system of safe-gua rds to insure the safety of this
owned.
assets
the
of
the safety
its
The revenue s received by Grand Lodge from all sources exceede dExexpense s and appropr iations by $2,210.34 as shown at the bottom of
hibit A.
in
Schedul es 2 and 4 show proof of the revenue due from the Lodges
contribU·
accorda nce with their 1952 annual returns and the $25.00 Homes
tions reported received up to July 31, 1953. The total amount du~_.!1
Gnushown, agrees with the total cash received from the Lodges by the
Secretar y.
~
Cash receipts were account ed for and deposite d in the proper
by che
account s by the Grand Treasur er. Disburs ements were madements
:rna~
and support ed by properly approve d voucher s. The disburse
at
bank account.
by the Grand Secretar y were from his Operatin g FundTreasur
n
were
er
Grand
the
by
Fund
g
Operatin
the
to
ments
imburse
•
made until we had audited and approve d the bills, which was done :rnonthl;r'

329

Dur~g the current year all bills . aid b th
dSeMcretary were provide d
for m the Budget or had the apCrova l ~f eGGand
aster.
ran
ified b
Bank balances were
with the deposita ries.
A c_ertified list of the se~:.ites w~ c~~e~podndfroence
m the Anglo Californ ia
.. eive
Nationa l Bank which h Ids h
ping. All interest
safe-kee
for
s
securitie
.
~ecei~ed
were
due
s
and dividend
.
.
Sotoyom e Lodge No 123 paid $1200 00
Grand
Lodge, leavin~ !J- balanc~ due of $2 BSO.OO on their indebted ness to
.
~
. In our opm1on, the attached tat
M efe~ presE;nt fairly the financia l position of the Grand Lodge F &
a at July 31, 1953 and the
results of its activitie s for the fiscal .yoear lalif952orn53J.
- on a cash basis.
Respect fully submitte d,

th

A.

BURRO WS & PARKE R
Certified Public Accoun tants
WALTE R A. PARKE R

330

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT

331

AA

CONSOLIDATE D STATEMENT OF

ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

OWNED OR UNDER CONTROL OF GRAND

LODGE -

ASSETS
Cash:

JULY 31, 1953
Grand Lodge
(Exhibit A)

TOTAL

Custody of the Grand Treasurer -------------------------------------------------------------·
Operating funds.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··
Revolving funds----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------······
Decoto and Covina residents accounts .......... ------------------------------------------··
Deposits in transit.·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------·····
Total cash .... ---·-----·-----------------·-·-··-·----·-········-··-·-·-··-··································

$ 1,055,735.97
46,822.77
2,500.00
9,549.85
4,051.54

Accounts Receivable -------·------····-·----··--··--··············-··-----------------------·-··-----··--·······-····-------

$

159,462.74
20,000.00
500.00

Endowment Fund Masonic Homes
(Exhibit A)
(Exhibit A)

$

481,409.46

$

414,863.77
26,822.77
2,000.00
9,549.85
4,051.54

1,118,660.13

179,962.74

481,409.46

457,287.93

5,287.05

3,143.97

551.11

1,591.97

4,272,152.10
2,282,941.59
339,850.00
82,743.51

326,000.00
290,598.56
339,850.00

3,370,452.97
1,277,957.19

575,699.13
714,385.84

18,546.38

64,197.13

12.00
2.00

8,758.16
2,854.00

4,666,970.54

1,365,894.26

[nvestments:

Custody of Grand Treasurer:
Bonds -------------····-··---------------------·-···································------------------Stocks -----------------···-···-----·--·------····-·······-·-·······················-··------------················
Stock of Masonic Temple Assn., San Francisco ..................................
Notes and con tracts receivable .................. -----------------·--··············--------··
Cus~od;y of Grand S~c:etary:
Life msurance pohc1es... -------·············----------------·----------------------------------······
Real estate and sundry items.-----------------------------------------------·------------·····
Total investments -------------------------·-----------------------------------------------·····

•

8,770.16
2,856.00
6,989,313.36

956,448.56

2,973,485.92
52,995.50

52,995.50

3,026,481.42

52,995.50

34,269.49
$11,174,011.45

$ 1,192,550.77

14,546.37

7,006.00

Capital ··---------------------------------·--·--------···--------·--·--·---------------------------···------··-·····----------·········

1,558,218.54
9,601,246.54

238,969.87
946,574.90

5,148,931.11

1,319,248.67
3,505,740.53

Total liabilities, reserves and capitaL.............................................

$11,174,011.45

$ 1,192,550.77

$ 5,148,931.11

$ 4,832,529.57

Properties: (at cost)

Land, buildings and equipment - Decoto and
Covina -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------·····················
Option and other costs - Memorial Temple site......................................
Total cost of properties ........... ----·----------------------···------------------·-···········
Inventories • Decoto and Covina ..................................................................................

Total assets .. ----·--·······------------------------------------------------------------------··············
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities:

Accounts payable -------------------------------------------------------------------------···················
Reserves:

Funds held in trust and for special purposes ..........................................

NOTE: The above figures were compiled from the three separate audit
reports and can be found in Exhibit A of each report.
.
Details of the Reserve Funds are shown on separate schedules m
the Grand Lodge and Masonic Homes reports.

2,973,485.92
2,973,485.92
$ 5,148,931.11

34,269.49
$ 4,832,529.57
7,540.37

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXfilBIT

BB

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF

CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

FROM FUNDS OF, OR CONTROLLED BY GRAND

Grand Lodge: (Exhibit B•)

Balance
August 1, 1952

General Fund ......... ····-·······-···-······ .........................$ 152,625.38
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial
Endowment Fund ..............................................
6,678.00
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial
per capita fund ···································-············
Centennial Fund ..................................................
12,001.42
Total Grand Lodge cash ............................ 171,304.80

333

LODGE -

AUGUST 1, 1952 TO JULY 31, 1953
Balance

Custody
of Grand
Treasurer

Operating
Fund&

$ 429,768.69

$ 167,133.81

$ 146,633.81

$ 20,500.00

16,356.00

9,350.00

7,006.00

7,006.00

30,790.50
12,011.42

30,790.50
6,188.49

5,822.93

5,822.93

656,060.42

476,097.68

179,962.74

159,462.74

20,500.00

Receipts

Total

$ 444,277.12

$ 596,902.50

9,678.00
30,790.50
10.00
484,755.62

Masonic Homes:

Disbursements

July 31, 1953

General Fund ··········-·············································
Funds held in trust ..................................:.......... .

462,739.76
22,292.36

1,098,755.35
50,712.27

1,561,495.11
73,004.63

1,126,626.42
50,585.39

434,868.69
22,419.24

401,994.38
12,869.39

32,874.31
9,549.85

Total Masonic Homes cash ........................

485,032.12

1,149,467.62

1,634,499.74

1,177,211.81

457,287.93

414,863.77

42,424.16

Endowment Fund (Exhibit B*) ........................
Luckenbach Fund (Exhibit C*) ........................

277,844.72
16,738.93

748,211.68

1,026,056.40
16,738.93

554,903.47
6,482.40

471,152.93
10,256.53

471,152.93
10,256.53

Total Endowment Fund cash ....................

294,583.65

748,211.68

1,042,795.33

561,385.87

481,409.46

481,409.46

Consolidated cash totals •....::..'........•...........$ 950,920.57

$ 2,382,434.92

$3,333,355.49

$2,214,695.36

$1,118,660.13

$1,055,735.97

Endowment Fund:
t

• NOTE:
The Exhibits referred to in the parentheses indicate where the
details may be found in the separate audit reports.

$ 62,924.16

334

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Exhibit A
Statement of Assets and Liabilities
July 31, 1953
Assets:
Cash in Banks:
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts (Exhibit C) ......$159,462.74
Grand Secretary's bank accouunts ...................... 20,500.00 $ 179,962.74

Investments: (Schedule 1)
Bonds ... -············--······-··-················· ..··························- 326,000.00

Deduct:
Expenses and appropriations
(Exhibit B) ................................ 271,149.01
Loss on sale of securities ............
732.19
Total ............................................ 271,881.20
Excess of revenue for the
year 1952-53 --··-······-········-··· ····
Balance, July 31, 1953 .........•.....................•

Other Assets:
Accounts receivable:
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ·······-········ 2,650.00
Grand Master's travel
expense ·······························-······ ..·····
147.38
Due from Lodges for public
liability insurance ........................
346.59
Option and other costs:
Memorial Temple site
(Schedule lA) ..........................................................

2,210.34
946,574.90

Total Liabilities, reserve

Stocks ·······················-······-·························-·-················· 290,598.56

Stock in Masonic Temple Association
(San Francisco) .......................................................... 339,850.00

335

956,448.56

and capital ..............................
t~··

'. ;

$1,192,550. 77

Schedule 1
Statement of Securities Owned
July 31. 1953

3,143.97

52,995.50

-----

Total Assets ·······-·······-····-················-·······

56,139.47
$1,192,550.77

Capital:
891,369.06
Balance, August 1, 1952 ..•..............•..........
Add:
.
· Assets purchased from special
funds:
Memorial Temple Building
52,995.50
Fund ················-······················
Excess of revenue over expense, 1952-53:
Revenue received: (Exhibit B)
By Grand Secretary .................... 245,652.10
By Grand Treasurer .................. · 28,439.44
Total ............................................$274,091.54

156,000.00

Total bonds ....,......·-··········-··············--·········-·············-·······

326,000.00

Stocks:
Shares of preferred:
·
45 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, 4%
15 Celanese Corporation of America, 4¥.! %........................ .
45 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 3¥-1 %--~·-·-···········
60 Liquid Carbonic, 3¥.!% •.•...••·--··-······-··········-··-··············-···
180 Philadelphia Electric Company, $1.00 conv.....................
45 United Aircraft, 1$·-·-··-··-···· -··-·--···----···- ·-······
15 United Air Lines. Inc.,"*°"'-·-··-··-·--·····-··-··-···········
105 York Corp., 4¥.! % ..........................................................
........... .

4,517.00
1,474.15
4,348.28
4,611.19
4,586.93
4,913.85
1,485.40
4,152.64

%---·--·-·····-····--··-..--.

Liabilities. Reserve and Capital
Acc~unts Payable:
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial - for initiates'
$ 7,006.00
contributions ···················-·· .. ······-··-···
Funds Reserved for Special Purposes:
Centennial Committee ........................$ 5,822.93
Memorial Temple Building Fund........233,146.94 238,969.87

Total liabilities . and reserves..... .

Bonda:
$ 10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1953..•....•........... .$
40,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1958....................
30,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1959....................
90,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1960................... .
156,000 U. S. Certificates of Indebtedness,
series B, 1%%, 1955........................................................... .

$ 245,975.87

Total preferred ..........·-···-·-······-··-··:·······-················-······-···
Shares of common:
150 Air Reduction Company ........................................................
45 Allied Chemical & Dye Corp. ···-······················-··-······-·····
75 American Home Products ...................................................
.
15 American Telephone & Telegraph Company ................
75 American Tobacco Company ..............................................
150 Anglo California National Bank ···············-·····-······ ..·······
75 Atlantic Refining Company···-······-··············-······-··-·········
60 Bankers Trust Company .....,................................,...............
90 Beatrice Food Company ···············-··-··-··-··············-··-······
60 Bendix Aviation Corporation ····-··········-··-···-·········-······
160 Central & South West Corporation · ................................

Cost
10,000.00
40,000.00
30,000.00
90,000.00

30,089.44

----4,523.05
3,502.67
2,929.04
2,315.27
4,714.62
5,201.22
2,588.45
2,730.00
3,254.45
3,166.44
2,710.63

336

300 Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp. ·······················-···
75 Chase National Bank ·······································---············-···
60 Chemical Bank & Trust Company ..................................
72 Cleveland Electric lliuminating Company ------···........ ..
90 Columbian Carbon Company ........................................... .
165 Commonwealth Edison Company ...... ;····-······-······----·····
90 Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.........
75 Continental Can Company, Inc. ............... - .... ······-···········
30 Continental Oil Company ....................................................
75 Corn Products Refining ...............................- .......................
75 Delaware Power & Light Company ···········------------------··-150 Detroit Edison Company ......................................................
150 Duquesne Light Company ....................................................
69 Eastman Kodak Company ...............................·-·-··----··--···
90 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp. ···········-··-···················
90 General American Transportation Corp. ....................... .
60 General Electric Company ·······--··-······························--···
170 General Public Utilities Corp............................................ .
47 Gulf Oil Corporation ·········--···------······-----··--···--·-···--·····----·-60 Hercules Powder Company ..................................................
76 Hershey Chocolate Corporation ···············-·--···-----·--···-···
75 Home Insurance Company of New York··-----·············
90 Illinois Power Company ·········--··········--····-··-······-··-······-···
122 Kansas City Power & Light Company ..............................
75 Kennecott Copper Corp.........................- ..............................
75 Koppers Company, Inc .........................................................
150 Libbey Owens Ford Glass Company ..................................
45 Manufacturers Trust Company ............................................
33,985 Masonic Temple Association of San Francisco ·······-··-···
96 Middle South Utilities ·························---···················--·--·······
105 Minnesota Power & Light Company ...............- ......- .......
45 Monsanto Chemical Company ..............................................
150 Montana Power Company ....................................................
60 Montgomery Ward & Company ..........................................
75 Phillip Morris & Company, Ltd.........................................
75 McKesson & Robbins --·-··----·---···-··'-··-······--------- --·
60 National Cash Register Company ......................................
279 New England Electric System ............................................
132 New York State Electric & Gas·······-······--··-···--···--·········
181 Niagara Mohawk Power Company ................................... .
330 Northern States Power ........................................................
109 Ohio Edison Company ...................-······-······-··-···--··-·-·--····
60 Ohio Oil Company --·····-······-··-·····-··-·--·······-·--···--·-······--·
15 Owens Illinois Glass Company ...........................------···--····
90 Pacific Gas & Electric Company ........................................
75 Parke, Davis & Company ....................................................
50 Phillips Petroleum Company ..............................................
160 Public Service Electric & Gas Company,
$1.40 pfd common ............................................................... .
150 Public Service Electric & Gas Company ......................... .
148 Public Service Company of Indiana ..................................
79 Remington Rand, Inc. ..........................................................
66 St. Joseph Lead Company ..................................................
150 St. Regis Paper Company ................................................... .
30 Shell Oil Company ............................................................... .
75 Shellmar Products Corp.......................................................
90 Southern California Edison Company ............................
150 Standard Brands ··------·------·-····---·····--································
150 Sterling Drug Company -······-·······-·····························-·······

337

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE ·

. 3,196.60
2,765.63
2,610.00
3,407.19
4,195.45
5,171.49
2,926.62
3,174.67
1,890.77
4,986.23
1,831.53
3,408.14
4,177.50
2,768.52
4,290.20
2,644.35
3,603.40
3,410.34
2,422.48
4,017.54
2,851.59
3,156.91
3,128.23
3,354.70
5,156.15
3,352.71
5,104.20
2,385.00
339,850.00
2,137.87
3,593.37
4,084.70
3,216.07
3,770.32
3,917.88
2,750.01
3,324.45
3,518.47
3,119.56
4,295.78
3,322.79
3,241.70
3,279.35
1,095.20
2,888.63
3,363.32
2,466.89
4,364.69
3,369.46
3,838.96
1,577.65
3,087.82
2,996.37
2,100.30
2,684.43
3,063.81
3,426.99
5,923.98

30 Texas Gulf Sulphur Company ............................................
90 Union Carbide & Carbon Corp........................- .................
l!ro Union Electric Company of Missouri ............................. .
75 Union Oil Company of California ......................................
135 United Gas Corporation ........................................................
150 United Shoe Machinery Corp............................................ .
75 Westinghouse Electric Company···-···--·--····---·----·----------·
180 Wisconsin Electric Power Company .......- .......................
75 F. W. Woolworth Company ..................................................

3,225.50
5,082.34
3,429.80
2,928.33
3,300.46
6,285.98
2,712.18
3,253.73
3,446.00

Total common ........................................................................

600,359.12

Total stock ...............- ........................................................... ..

630,448.56

Total Securities (in custody of Grand Treasurer) --·····-·----·-------'

956,448.56

=====

Schedule la

Statement of Memorial Temple Building Fund
July 31, 1953
$
Balance, .August l, 1952 __.........................................
Receipts
Per capita, 1952 annual returns ···----·-··-------··-' 102,635.00
25,000.00
Bequest :from Estate of Andrew Morton ................

158.507.44

$

127tl35.00

Total receipts ............................................................
Total to account for ...........- ............................. ..

.
Dbbunemenb
Option on land .......................................................... ..
Architect's fees and other expense ........................
Total disbursements ...............................- ......... - .. ..

288,l42.44

50,000.00
2,995.50

-----

52,9'5.50

$

233,146.94

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1, 1952 to July 31, 1953
$
Cash Balance, August 1, 1952 ....

171,34.80

Balance, JulJ' 31, 1953 ............................................... .

Recelftd By The Grand Secretary
Per capita dues from Lodges:
1952 annual returns
$ 221,930.50
(Schedule 2) .......................... ..
363.47
For prior years .............................
740.00
Charters and dispensations ......... .
400.00
Sales of Masonic History Books ..
18,846.41
Sales of supplies ···········-··-···········
Refund of expense allowance2,212.14
Grand Master L. C. Drapeau ..
Refund of Grand Lodge of
267.50
Missouri trial expense ............. .
Refund of legal expense642.08
\
Lodge No. 389 ········-·-······-·········
250.00
Columbia Temple rental ..............
Total revenue receipts •.............

245,652.10

338

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Refunds of expense (see
disbursements) ........................... .
Per capita for George Washington National Memorial···-·········
Initiates' contributions to Geor~e
Washington National Memorial
Payments from Sotoyome
Lodge No. 123 ···················-·······
Public liability insurance for
Lodges·······················-···················
Sales of Centennial books ............
Per capita for Memorial
Temple Fund ..............................

Bonds, supplies and sundry ....
Social security and unemployment insurance ···-·················
Investment counsel
Total administrative and
office ......................................

16,952.76

--·----··-···*

30,790.50
9,678.00
1,200.00
13,128.35
10.00
102,635.00

Total cash received by Grand
Secretary ···········-·························

420,046.71

Received By The Grand Treasurer
1,316.83
Bank interest ···-·····.,..····--··-········~··
6,980.00
Bond interest ···-··.:.······-··-·············
20,142.61
Dividends ..........................................
28,439.44
36,269.47

Total revenue receipts ···········-·
Securities sold ·······-·······················
Total cash received by Grand
treasurer ................................. .

64,708.91
656,060.42

To:al to account for ···-·············
Disbursements
By Grand Secretary ···········-··-··-·
By Grand Treasurer ......................

191,881.91
284,215.77

Cash Balance, July 31, 1953:.
G:iand Secretary's bank
accounts ................................... .
Grand Treasurer's bank
accounts ....................................

476,097.68

20,500.00
159,462.74 $

179,962.74

--~~~Disbursed by--~~~

Grand
Disbursements
Treasurer
Reftnded through collections:
Stpplies purchased for resale
R!fund to Lodges of prior
years dues ···-·············-···········
Total refundable ............... .
Adninistrative and office: (Schedule 3)
::ilaries ......................................... .
lent ..............................................
A.ldit ···············-·····························
frand Treasurer ........................
P.>stage and express ............... .
'l!lephone and telegraph ........

$

Grand
Secretary
18,279.42 $

18,279.42

338.52

338.52

Total

18,617.94

~

339

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

39,275.35
. 6,000.00
1,050.00
1,257.16
1,541.33
1,539.56

39,275.35
6,000.00
1,050.00
1,257.16
1,541.33
1,539.56

General expense: (Schedule 3)
Annual communication ............
Conferences ..................................
Grand Lodge officers' travel ..
Grand Organist and Grand
Tiler ............................................
Grand Master's travel expense
Grand Master's miscellaneous
expense···············-·····················
Investment counsel for Lodges
Pay of members •.......................
Printing ..............................................................
Ritualistic expense:
Grand Lecturer ......................
Inspectors' aprons and
stationery •.............................
Travel expense ........................
Grand Master's relief fund ....
Retirement pay ···········-···············
Veterans' buttons ......................
Miscellaneous:
Grand Master's present ........
Grand Master's printing and
postage-1951-52 ................
Special communication on
publicity ·······-·······················
Sundries ·······-··········-··-···········
Total general expense ......
Appropriations: (Schedule 3)
Activities Committee ····-··········•
Board of Control ........................
Board of Relief ............................
Charters Committee ..................
Columbia Temple ......................
Constitution Month ·······-···········
Correspondence Committee ....
De Molay Committee ................
Employment Bureaus ................
Endowment Board ....................
Information Committee ............
Lodge Finance Committee ..:...
Public School Week ..................
Publications Committee ...............

3,777.65
605.04
900.00

.

3,777.65
605.04
900.00
55,946.09

1,000.00

14,277.48
2,245.03
5,665.66

13,277.48
2,245.03
5,665.66

400.00
7,000.00

400.00
7,000.00

1,750.00
3,000.00
25,117.27

79.40
20,358.51

1,750.00
3,000.00
25,196.97
20,358.51

600.00

600.00

1,318.27
10,887.88
1,695.00
900.00
1,963.58

1,318.27
10,887.88
1,695.00
900.00
1,963.58

500.00

500.00

104.76

104.76

286.76
1,397.13

286.76
1,397.13

1,500.00 $
50.00

16,256.50
4,500.00

$

99,546.73

5.094.75 $
1,061.47

6.594.75
1,061.47
50.00
545.29
1,891.82
415.65
109.86
675.04
16,256.50
8,989.31
30.00
977.26
3,488.20
403.39

545.29
1,891.82
415.65
109.86
675.04
4,489.31
30.00
977.26
3,488.20
403.39

340

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

42,100.00
2,500.00
949.71
10,000.00

42,100.00
2,500.00

University clubhouses ..............
Holland relief ···············-·····•·······
Architects of Freedom ..............
Tehachapi Temple Association

949.71
10,000.00

Total appropriatio ns ........... .

97,038.25

Total disbursed for expenses

271,149.01

Expenses refunded: (see receipts)
Masonic Homes salaries ........... .
Activities Committee ................
Annual communicati on ........... .
Bond premiums ..........................
Conference expense ................. .
Grand Lodge officers' expense
Postage ..........................................
Printing ········································
Ritual Committee travel ...... ,.
Veterans' buttons ......................
Miscellaneou s ···················-·········

9,000.00
937.26
1,126.76
580.47
409.13
3,877.60
376.22
479.65
102.67
46.00
17.00

9,000.00
937.26
1,126.76
580.47
409.13
3,877.60
376.22
479.65
102.67
46.00
17.00

16,952.76

Total expenses refunded ......
Advances to be refunded:
Public liability insurance ....... .
Grand Master's expense ..........

13,287.74
147.38

13,287.74
147.38

Total advances to be
refunded ................................

$

George Washington National Memorial:
Initiates' contribution s ............$
9,300.00
Per capita ···-··········-···················
~0,790.50
Refunds to Lodges ....................
$
Centennial celebration fund ......
52,815.20
Memorial Temple fund ·······-··-···
Stocks purchased ............................
75,236.30
Total disbursemen ts ..............$

284,215.77

$

$
50.00
6,188.49
180.30
191.881.91 $

====

13,435.12
9,300.00
30,790.50
50.00
6,188.49
52,995.50
75,236.30
476,097.68

Schedule 2
Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected
From 1952 Annual Returns
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1953

Degrees Conferred:
Number
Initiated ········································
9,252
Passed ···························-··-···········
8,961
Raised ···········-··············-···············
8,711
26,924
Total ···-··········---~·····················

Per Capita Amount

@

$1.00 $

26,924.00

Master Masons:
Membership ···················-···········
Deduct dues remitted ............. .
Total dues paying members
Total Grand Lodge dues as per
annual returns of 1952 ..

341

207,832
2,562
205,270

@

$1.60

328,432.00
$

355,356.00

$

355,356.00

Disposition of Revenue
Grand Lodge ···········-··-..-··-·-·············-··•.:•.....- .•....$ 221,930.50
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Fund, 205,270 members @ 15c ........
30,790.50
Memorial Temple, 205,270 members @ 50c ........
102,635.00
Total as above ·······························-·····················
Schedule 3
Comparison of Budget and Expenditure s
Year 1952-53
Administrati ve and office:
Appropriatio n Expended Under
Salaries ·······················-·············$ 40,900.00 $ 39,275.35 $ 1,624.65
Rent ....................... ..................... 6,000.00
6,000.00
Audit .......................................... 1,050.00
1,050.00
Grand Treasurer ...................... 1,600.00
1,257.16
342.84
Postage and express .............. 2,250.00
1,541.33
708.67
Telephone and telegraph ...... 1,500.00
1,539.56
$
Bonds, supplies and sundry.. 4,200.00
3,777.65
422.35
Social security and unemployment taxes .................... 1,000.00
605.04
394.96
Investment counsel ................
900.00
900.00
Total administrativ e
and office ............................ 59,400.00
General expense:
Annual communicati on .......... 7,000.00
Conferences ......-............................................. 2,000.00
Grand Lodge officers' travel 5,000.00
Grand Organist and
Grand Tiler ..........................
400.00
Grand Master's travel
7,000.00
expense ···-··················
Grand Master's miscel- ····-·····
laneous expense ···········-····· 1,750.00
Investment counsel for
Lodges ·······-·····'····················· 3,000.00
Portrait of Grand Master
...... 1,275.00
Par of members ...................... 25,103.22
Printing ...................................... 22,000.00
Ritualistic expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ·······-···········
Inspectors' aprons and
stationery .......................... 1,000.00
Travel expense ···········-······· 10,000.00
Grand Master's relief fund .. 2,000.00
Retirement pay ......................
900.00
Veterans' buttons .................... 3,000.00
Miscellaneou s ............................ 2,500.00

55,946.09

3,493.47

14,277.48
2,245.03
5,665.66

39.56

39.56
7,277.48
245.03
6155.66

400.00
7,000.00
1,750.00
3,000.00
25,196.67
20,358.51

1,275.00
1,641.49

93.45

600.00
1,318.27
10,887.88
1,695.00
900.00
1,963.58
2,288.65

305.00

318.27
887.88

1,036.42
211.35

Total general expense ........$ 94,528.22 $ 99,546.73 $ 4,469.26 $ 9,487.77

342

343

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Cash BB;lance, July 31, 1953:
Appropriations:
Activities Committee ........... .$ 6,000.00 $
Board of Control ...................... 2,000.00
50.00
Board of Relief ...............- .......
Charters Committee .............. 1,500.00
Columbia Temple .................... 2,000.00
500.00
Constitution Menth ................
500.00
Correspondence Committee ..
750.00
DeMolay Committee ..............
Employment Bureaus ............ 16,444.00
Endowment Board .................. 10,000.00
50.00
History Committee ..................
500.00
Hyam portrait ..........................
500.00
Information Committee ........
Lodge Finance Committee .... 1,000.00
Public School Week .............. 3,500.00
100.00
Sojourners' Committee ..........
Publications Committee ........ 2,500.00
University Clubhouses .......... 42,100.00
Holland relief ···········-·············
Architects of Freedom ..........
Tehachapi Temple
Association ............................

6,594.75
1,061.47 $
50.00
545.29
1,891.82
415.65
109.86
675.04
16,256.50
8,989.31

Total appropriations .......... 89,994.00

30.00
977.26
3,488.20
403.39
42,100.00
2,500.00
949.71

$
954.71
108.18
84.35
390.14
74.96
187.50
1,010.69
50.00
500.00
470.00
22.74
11.80
100.00
2,096.61

Grand Secretary's Resume of Cash Received
August l, 1952 to July 31, 1953
F or G rand Lodge:
Fo~fu~~~~y~~~~~!~~~~~~f ................................
4
Per capita dues
e >
$25.00 contributiorui·····-···-··········-··········-···················'153,9&!.&0
.................................................... 262,675.00

For the Endowment Fund.
Donations and bequests"................................................

10,000.00

416,627.50
346,240_85

Schedule 4

14,044.46

Statement of Masonic Homes Per Capita and $25
Contributions Received
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1953

Authorized by Grand Master• .. 23,571.79
Total authorization .................... 267,494.01
Total expenditures ...................... 252,531.07
Unexpended appropriations ....$ 14,962.94

Per Capita Dues· - 1952 Annual Returns·
~ed'bfdhip
........:··········-·--·········-········· 207 ,832
e uc ues remitted ...............•,........... 2,562

Total dues paying members........... 205,270

• Note: Items not covered by the budget and expenditures in excess of
amount in budget were not paid until approved by the Grand Master.

@ 75c

$ 153,952.50

$25.00 Homes Contributions:
Amount due per 1952 annual returns·
I 'ti t'1'?ns .............................. 9,252 .
E A. ations ..............................
779
.
and F. C. ....................
55

.Alrili

Exhibit C
Grand Treasurer's
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August l, 1952 to July 31, 1953
Cash Balance, August 1, 1952 ................................
$
Receipts
From the Grand Secretary ...........................:..,..........$ 420,046.71
Interest and dividends ·······-··········-··········-···············
28..439.44
Sale of securities ..............~.........................................
36,269.47

Total ···························-······· 10,086
150,804.80

484,755.62
Total receipts ·······-··············-····--··········-···········

Total disbursements ....................•...•.........

$ 420,046. 71

Total cash re_c eived and transjerred to Grand Treasurer......$1,182,915.06

Totals ..........................................$243,922..D $252,531.07 $ 14,962.94 $ 23,571.79

Total to account for ........................................
Disbursements
Reimbursing Grand Secretary's operating fund
Grand Treasurer's disbursements (Exhibit B) ....

$159,462.74

Exhibit D

2,500.00
949.71

7,000.21

50.00
67,677.17
6,028.87
78,084.17
7,622.53

Bank of California
k ..........................
Crocker First Natio~~l-Ba~k·················................
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trwt.coi.pa~y·::::

938.53

10,000.00
97,038.25

~:1i;:C!ll~~ C::!ti~:r B·a~................:.............

594.75

635,560.42

.

@ $25.00

$252,150.00

Deduct payments received in advance of
annual ':"eturns and reported in 1952
~gLodgs
............................................$180,175.00
• ·
es, transferred to
375.00
1953 returns ......................................

179,800.00

BalanAddce due on 1952 returns ......................
payments received in advance of
1953 returns .............................................. ·
Total contributions received during

191,881.91
284,215.77
476,097.68

Total cash ~~ii~!~ \!'i~~Gran~i'Secr~tBry and
turned over to the
Treasurer of the Homes ..........................

72,350.00
190,325.00
262,675.00
$416627.50

344

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

· PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND AUDIT
Grand Lodge F. & A M. of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the accounts and records of the MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1953 and present the following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets, July 31, 1953.
Schedule 1: Endowment Fund Securities owned, July 31, 1953.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
. ~· ·~·-~ "'
1952 to July 31, 1953.
Schedule 2: Securities redeemed and sold during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1953.
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, July 31, 1953.
Exhibit D: Statement of Income and Capital Accounts for the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1953.

COMMENTS
Cub:
The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
All interest and dividends due from investments and savings bank accounts
were received and deposited in the bank accounts of the Masonic Homes.
The total income received by the Homes from the Endowment Fund amounted to $155,052.86 as compared to $125,715.87 for last year.
Securities:
Securities owned on July 31, 1953 are listed on Schedule 1. Securities
redeemed and sold during the current year are listed on Schedule 2.
Stocks and bonds purchased are listed at cost. Donated securities are
listed at market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the
actual value is unknown.
Certified lists of securities held for the account of the Endowment and
Luckenbach Funds were received from the Anglo California National Bank
which has custody of the securities. The records were checked to these lists
and the securities not listed were inspected by us at the oftice of the Grand

Secretary.

lncreue In Fund:
The combined assets of the Endowment Fund and the Luckenbach Fund
show the following increase for the current year:
Amounts of funds, July 31, 1953·--··-·-··-·----·---·-* 5,148,931.11
Amount of funds, July 31, 1952..•--···-··-··---··--··- 4,591,614.71
Increase ···---··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--.:....····--··-·;..··---'
The increase is accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests..........................·-············-··-···$
Securities by donations and bequests......·-··········-·-·········
Due from Homes--bequests................................................... .
Profit on sale of securities..-....................................................

557,316.40
546,240.85
5,253.00
551.11
5,271.44

Increase ···················-··························-··-····················-··· $ 557,316.40
Tke donations received through Lodges were confirmed by correspondence with the individual Lodges as at June 15, 1953.

345

Other Endowment A11et1:
The books of the Masonic Homes carry the record of the Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund. After the death of the beneficiaries of this
fun~, the remainder will be transferred to the Endowment Fund. The Masonic Homes report shows that this fund had a balance of $19,311.65 as at
.
July 31, 1953.
The Masonic Homes also hold several pieces of real estate for the account of the Endowment Fund. Whenever a sale is made the proceeds will
be deposited to the account of the Endowment Fund.
Accountants' Opinion:
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund at July 31 1953 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied' on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A Parker

346

Exhibit A
Statement of Assets
July 31, ~953

..-4

~

..

·; •

•

Endowment Fund:
Cash in savings accounts:
337,520.24
Anglo California National Bank - ..
81,755.51
Bank of America ···············-··········-··--·········
51,877.18 $ 471,152.93
Pacific National Banlt ···········-···············-····
Securities-at cost:
(For details see Schedule 1) ·
Bonds . ,·-······•·-···-··-·····~--,....-...._.................. 3,322,737.41
Stocks •-.,.·······"'·····•'"·····-·-"r··. . .-..........-............. 1,271,895.99
18,560.38
Miscellaneous ·····························-··-··--··--·
4,613,193.78
Total ···-···············-····················.,.········,·······
Less reserve for amortization of
2,232.64
bonds premiums ~-·····················-···············
4,610,961.14
Net cost of securities ···-·······················
551.11
Due from Masonic Homes ..........................
5,082,665.le
Total Endowment Fund assets ........... .

·····--··-*

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund:
Cash in savings account: ·
Anglo California National Bank···········-···
Securities--at cost:
(For details see Exhibit C) ········•·-············
Total Luckenbach Funds assets ....... .

347

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

g.

13

'ooo

10,256.53
56,009.40

Grand Total Endowment Fund Assets ........... .

25,000 New York Central R.R. Equipment Trust 3%%
2/1/61 ···························-······························-···· . •
'
25,000 Northern Pacific Railway Equipment rrru;i····33··
11/30/63 ···········-···················································· .• •
•
5,600 P!1illips Petroleum Co., debenture, 3.70%, 1983 ::::::::::::
50,000 Pittsburgh-Lake Erie R.R. Equipment Trust 2% %
4/15/61 ........................................•.....................•....:..
•
50,000 Seaboard Airlines R.R. Equipment Trust iV~o/;·
12/1/62 ·········-······-···············································'....... . •
50,000 St. Louis-San Francisco Equipment Trust 2~~3··
8/1/59 •...•............................................................... :............ .
~.ggo
S. Savi_ngs Bonds, seri~s E, 1953 ...............................:::
, 0 I. S. Savmgs Bonds, senes F, 1956 ............................... .
USe~ed.redemption va~ue, E and F bonds ............... .
500 u' · av~gs Bonds, ser~es G, 21h%, 1953 ................... .
17 200 u' S. Sav~ngs Bonds, s~es G, 21h, 1954 .................. :.....
85,000
,
. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1955 ................... .
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957 ....................
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958 ................... .
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959 ................... .
980,00 0 UU. S. Sav!ngs Bonds, ser!es G, 21h%, 1960 ................... .
L %
Bonds • senes G • 2 17Z
00,000
000 u . S.
135
s Savmgs
Tr
~" , 1961 ••••••••••••••••••••
2!.
u· . easury Notes, 2% %, 1954 ....................................
7 ,000 u· S. Treasury Notes, 1%%, 1955 ................................... .
160,000 . S. Treasury Bonds, Investment Series A, 21h 1965
l~~·ggg
S. Treasury Bonds, 2~%, 1969-64 ..................... :......... .
u· ~·:frreasury Bonds, series B. 2%%, 1980-75 ............
•
5 000 w' . easury Bonds, 21h%, 1972-67 ................................
8,
est Shore Railroad Co., 1st mortgage bonds 4%
2361 ...................................................•.......................:.........'.

66,265.93

g.

July 31, 1953

Bonds:
100,000 Aluminum Company of America, 3%%, 1964................$
45,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment, 2%%, 3/1/60 ......
5,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment, 2%%, 9/1/60 ....
5 000 Chicago Board of Education, 4% %, 1954 ........................
50:000 Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific R.R. Equipment
Trust series N, 2% %, 8/1/62 ...................................•...•
25,000 Delaw~e, Lackawanna and Western R.R., series K,
3%, 3/1/62 ·······-·····-···-··············-······-··········-··············-···
40,000 IllinQis Central Equipment Trust, series 35, 2o/4 %
5/1/62 ·······-··········-··················-··········-················-·····-····
10,000 Illinois Central Equipment Trust, series 35, 2% %,
11/1/62 ·················-·······-··-··········-······-··········-·-·····-··-··
50,000 Louisville & Nashville R.R. Equipment Trust, series
L, 2'¥8 %, 7/15/62 -··································-:·········--···········
25,000 Minn., St. Paul & S. Ste. Marie R.R. Equipment, 3% %,
1/1/62 ···········-····························-····-··········-··-··················
25 000 Missouri Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust, 3%%, 7/1/61
25:000 New York Central R.R. Equipment Trust, 3%%,
2/1/60 _.:__ ___·-------··--··-······---······-·······--···

Cost
101,284.10
44,999.81
4,999.98
5,688.70
49,247.80
24,786.82

49,606.81
49,442.85
50,078.85
4,150.00
96,200.00
21,650.00
500.00
17,200.00
85,000.00
100,000.00
100,000.00
100,000.00
980,000.00
100,000.00
35,000.00
722,000.00
160,000.00
168,346.88
12,093.75
4,837.50
4,960.00

Stocks:
Shares of Preferred:
garada Dry Ginger Ale, 4%. "1 ...:_······-··-··-··-··-·'·····$
6 Fe anese Corporation of America, 4Jh % ...............•..•.
180 ood Machinery & Chemical Corporation, 3%.% ....
10 Healdsburg General Hospital ........................................
240 Liquid Carbonic, 31h % ·········································-······-·
558 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 6% ........................
96 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 51h% ....................
720 Philadelphia Electric Company, $1 conv. ................
645 Public Service Electric & Gas Company, $1.40 ........
180 United Aircraft ·······-·······················································
60 United Air Lines, Inc. 41h% ........................................
420 York Corporation, 41h% ................................................

18,068.40
5,894.67
17,543.07
1.00
18,544.66
15,855.75
2,430.00
18,347.19
17,564.16
19,680.41
5,939.72
17,161.76

Total preferred stock ............................................

157,030.79

Shares of common:
600 Air Reduction ·······································-···························
180 Allied Chemical & Dye ................................................. .
300 American Home Products .......................................... .
60 American Telephone and Telegraph Compam.y ....... :
300 American Tobacco ···············································-···········
600 Anglo California National Bank of San Francisco ..
300 Atlantic Refining Company ··························•··-·-··-···

18,114.04
13,995.51
11,713.89
9,269.91
18,957.08
20,809.48
10,337.01

rng

Regul~ Endowment Fund Securities Owned

24,999.68
5,600.00

Total bonds··-··-··-··-·-··-·----·!•··-··--···• 3,322,737.41

$ 5,148,931.11

Schedule 1

25,435.19

-----

39,569.18
9,887.66
49,892.21
24,847.76
24,951.34
25,480.54

348

············
240 Banke rs Trust Compa ny ····-····················'····-····
·······-··---·······························
360 Beatri ce Foods Compa ny
... .
............
............
240 Bendix Aviati on Corpo ration ............
.
644 Centra l and South West Corpo ration .......................
.
1,200 Centra l Hudso n Gas and Electri c Compa ny ...........
···
300 Chase Nation al Bank of New York·· ·····················--···
--·-······
240 Chemi cal Bank & Trust Compa ny ····-······
288 Clevel and Electri c Illumi nating Compa ny ·······-·······
....
460 Colum bian Carbo n Compa ny ....................................
.
.......
............
............
ny
Compa
Edison
lth
onwea
660 Comm
360 Conso lidated Edison Compa ny of New York, Inc.
Inc. ···-······ --·-····' -·······
300 Contin ental Can Compa ny,Inc
......................................
120 Contin ental Oil Compa ny,
.
300 Corn Produc ts Refinin g ...............................................
.
300 Delaw are Power and Light Compa ny .......................
······················
·····-·····
············
ny
Compa
Edison
t
600 Detroi
600 Duque sne Light Compa ny ··•····-···································
ny ···········-··-···················-······
382 Eastm an Kodak Compa
... .
285 Food Machi nery & Chemi cal Corpo ration ............
........
360 Gener al Ameri can Transp ortatio n Corpo ration .......
.
240 Genera l Electri c Compa ny ....................................
········-··
············
ration
Corpo
s
Utilitie
682 Genera l Public
·················
291 Gulf Oil Corpo ration ····-··········-·-···-··············-········
·······
240 Hercul es Powde r Compa ny ···········-············
ration ····················-··-·······.
306 Hershe y Choco late Corpo
300 Home Insura nce Compa ny of New York ...................
·
ny ···················~-······················360 Illinois Power Compa
........
490 Kansa s City Power & Light Compa ny ............
300 Kenne cott Coppe r Corpo ration ................•...................
.....
300 Koppe rs Compa ny, Inc ..............................................
........ .
600 Libby Owens Ford Glass Compa ny ......:............
.....
300 McKes son & Robbin s, Inc. .....................................
.
180 Manuf acture rs Trust Compa ny ...................................
····
····-··-···
···········
·······-···
Inc.
s,
Utilitie
South
386 Middle
.
420 Minne sota Power & Light Compa ny .......................
··
············
············
·······-···
ny
Compa
180 Monsa nto Chemi cal
········-··-·····
600 Monta na Power Compa ny ···-······-······-····
240 Montg omery Ward & Compa ny······ ···--···· ·················
25 J.P. Morga n & Company······-·····································
··
240 Nation al Cash Regist er ···························-···················
..
100 Nation al Shawm ut Bank of Boston ........................
·
·"-·······
·······--···-··-···
1,114 New Englan d Electri c System
.
528 New York State Electri cal & Gas Compa ny .........
····
···-·······
············
ny
726 Niagar a Mohaw k Power Compa
125 North Ameri can Compa ny ·--~······································
1,320 Northe rn States Power Compa ny ···············-···············
436 Ohio Edison Compa ny-····· ················-········--··-···········
240 Ohio Oil Compa ny ··-··-··- ·····-··- ··········-··-········--·····
360 Owens Illinois Glass Compa ny ···········-··············-·······
.
180 Pacific Gas & Electri c Compa ny .................................
.
.........
............
............
............
ny
Compa
&
Davis
300 Parke,
··········
·······-···
············
Ltd.
ny,
Compa
&
300 Philip Morris
250 Phillip s Petrol eum Compa ny ···········-·······:··············-·600 Public Servic e Electri c & Gas Compa ny ·····-·····--······
.
594 _Public Servic e Compa ny of Indian a ...........................
····
···········
-·········315 Remin gton Rand, Inc. ···················-···
264 St. Joseph Lead Compa ny ··-···-··--·····························
600 St. Regis Paper Compa ny ·······················-·····················

349

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

10,920.00
12,992.69
12,691.25
10,875.82
12,723.00
11,062.50
10,440.00
12,859.28
22,124.24
20,685.97
11,695.93
12,693.20
7,542.96
19,904.96
7,142.03
13,523.59
16,683.78
15,405.65
13,513.61
10,571.64
14,484.06
13,685.58
15,103.39
16,066.46
11,489.10
12,615.54
13,894.83
13,358.59
20,615.22
13,444.15
20,428.42
11,125.09
9,540.00
8,567.18
14,430.22
16,320.44
12,914.14
15,076.18
5,416.25
13,271.79
2,654.31
14,036.65
12,528.46
17,240.19
944.25
13,291.46
12,963.02
13,129 .15.
26,107.54
5,791.18
13,414.32
15,659.07
12,329.70
13,614.28
15,418.82
6,325.07
12,323.55
11,971.28

.

20 Securi ty First Nation al Bank of Los Angele s .......
120 Shell Oil Compa ny ·······-··-······-··-··-······-·······-·········..:
300 Shellm ar Produc ts Corpor ation ........:........................
···-·······
············
ny
Compa
Edison
rnia
Califo
rn
377 ~uthe
................... .

4

uthern Realty Compa ny ........................

600 Standa rd Brands , Inc. ···········-······-······-··-···················.
440 Standa rd Oil Compa ny of Califo rnia .......................
..
600 Sterlin g Drug Compa ny ................................................

~20 i~xas Gulf Sulphu r Compa ny ....................................

1 00 itle Insura nce & Trust Compa ny ···············-···········
,
360 Un~on Carbid e & Carbon Corpo ration ···········-···········

..........................
~~~ g~~~~ ~~~~i! c::1P!f~a'fif=muri
a································
.

P

Y

·····················-···············
~~~ g::~ ~~ec~ic~~!on ············
···········-························-······-··
ry

,.:
..
............
............
ny
Compa
Power
c
Electri
sin
;iscon
~~6
.
.....
............
............
............
ny
Compa
orth
0 . W. Woolw
80 Variou;i Mason ic Templ e Associ ations, donate d at
nomin al value ···-···························---~·-··························
Total Comm on Stock ..........................................
500 W~stinghouse Electri c Corpo ration .........................

1,155.00
8,383.13
10,683.75
11,655.36
11.00
13,203.65
5,468.80
23,777.20
12,814.33
37,500.00
20,288.29
13,727.44
11,713.14
12,806.70
25,029.59
18,532.64
13,504.71
13,747.52
25.00

=$ 1,114,865.20

Total Stocks ························-····································* 1,271,985.99

Miscel laneou s Items:
Frater nal Death Certifi cates:
8 Al Malaik ah Audito rium Co., @ $100 par ....$ 8.00
1 Mas?n ic Templ e Assn. of Sacram ento, $100
1.00
par ········································································
1 Oaklan d Lodge of Perfec tion, No. 2, $20
1.00
par ···············-··········-·······-······-······-······-···········
Insura nce Policie s:
1.00
$ 500 New York Life Insura nce Compa ny ....
1.00
1,000 Relian ce Life Insura nce Compa ny ..........
Notes:
4,951.80
Harold R. and Elizab eth P. Hauge n···············-···
Melvin C. Hobso n ...................................................... 5,980.00
······-··· 2,375.08
A R. Humm el ·-········-·····-·············-·············
Tecalo ma Club, Inc. ..................: ...........·-··············· 5,239.50
Sundr y:

Oil & Gas Lease, Weste rn Gulf Oil Compa ny
Lease to Shell Oil Compa ny, Long Beach ........
Total miscel laneou s items ............................. .

Total Securi ties on hand, July 31, 1953 ···················-·······

1.00
1.00

10.00
2.00

18,546.38

2.00
18,560 .38

$ 4,613,193. 78

351

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

350

Schedule 2
Exhibit B

Securities Redeemed and Sold
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1953

Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
(Not Including "Luckenbach Fund"-Exhibit C)

Net Proceeds

August l, 1952 to July 31, 1953

Cash in Banks, August 1, 1962 ···-··---·-..""-"'""'---···--·~··-'
Receipts
Donations and bequests:
Donations through Lodges .....•....$ 331 •112·49
Donations from individuals
•
1,519.54
and organizations ..................
1,446.16
Memorial donations ......................
12,162.66 $ 346.240.85
Bequests ···-··········--········-··---·····
200,000.00
From Masonic Homes of California
Securities redeemed and sold:
(Schedule 2)
32,430.52
Bonds ·······-·-······-··-······-··-···
167,913.01
Stocks ···························-··-·······
1,256.76
Notes -·····-··-··-······-····-······-···
201,700.29
100.00
Life insurance ···················-···
From Masonic Homes for annual
270.54
amortization of bond premiums ····
Total receipts ..................

277,844.72

748,211.68
1,026,056.40

Total to account for ········
Disbursements

Securities purchased during
current year:
241,024.11
Bonds -··········-························
310,149.36
Stocks --··-······-··············-·······
Refund to La Habra Lodge No. 659
as authorized 1952 annual
communication ···-··-··-··-··-··-:·-··-···
Payment to Masonic Homes for interest
on securities which was added for
redemption value -·-··-··-··············-···
Total disbursements ··············
Cash in Savings Accounts, _July 31, 1953:
Anglo California National Bank
Pacific National Bank ····················
Bank of America ............................

Bonds:
$ 900 American Telephone and Telegraph Company ........$
3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp. (defaulted) (donated)
30,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 1953 ................................

1,034.02
1,396.50
30,000.00

Stocks:
Shares:
1,370 Adams Figueroa Investment Company........................
120 Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation, 4%%, pfd. ....
300 Armstrong Cork................................................................
360 Bethlehem Steel Corporation ···--··-·····--········--················
180 Borg-Warner Corporation ···················-···························
300 Container Corp0ration of America ................................
1/5 _Gulf Oil Corporation ........................................................
310 International Harvester Company ................................
240 P. Lorillard Company........................................................
11 Mount Olivet Cemetery Company ................................
60 Owens Corning Fiberglas Corporation ······-··················
600 Pabco Products Company ................................................
120 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 5%, pfd. ···············-···
300 Pacific Mills ..........................................................................
360 Penick & Ford ············--·········································-···········
660 Southern California Edison, 4.48%, pfd. ........................
300 Underwood Corporation ···························-·······················
Liquidating dividends and rights sold ...•...................
Payments received on notes·-·······-···········································--·····
Life insurance proceeds·············-·--·····················--······-···················

9,422.15
12,179.04
14,723.85
18,983.80
13,692.71
11,358.74
·10.00
10,324.48
6,627.96
323.34
2,645.81
7,820.04
3,190.38
8,208.95
11,793.39
20,770.59
15, 797 .25 ·
40.53
1,256.76
100.00

-----

551,173.47

150.00

3,580.00
554,903.47
337,520.24
51,877.18
81,755.51 $ 471,152.93

Total proceeds -~-·-·--·-·-··-································-···• .

201, 700.29

Exhibit C
Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund"
July 31, 1953
Cash in Savings Account:
Anglo California National Bank ··-:·····-······-·····-···········-·---'
Securities:
Bonds:
$16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds,
series F, 1957 -·-··············-·····-···-$
11,988.00
Increase in redemption value ....
1,960.20 $ 13,948.20

10,256.53

1,000 U. S. Savings Bond,
series G, 2.lk%, 1954 .....•........
35,000 U. S. Savings Bonds,
series G, 2.lk%, 1957 ···-·········

35,000.00

300 shares Remington Rand, Inc.

6,061.20

Stock:

1,000.00

Total cost of securities ........
Total Luckenbach Fund Cash and Securities

·······-·····--·-··-··.f

56,009.40
66,265.93

352

353

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit D

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Statement of Inc:ome and Capital Ac:c:ounts
For the Fiac:al Year Ended July 31, 1953

Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, Calif.
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the MASONIC
HOMES OF CALIFORNIA for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1953 and submit
herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Balance Sheet, July 31, 1953.
Exhibit 1: Statement of Securities owned, July 31, 1953.
Schedule 2: Statement of Funds held in Trust.
Schedule 3: State of Funds held for Special Purposes.
Exhibit B: Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fiscal Year ended
July 31, 1953.
Exhibit C: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Exhibit E: Detailed Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit F: Detailed Operating Expense-Covina.

Inc:ome Ac:c:ount1:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
153,518.35
Endowment Fund······-·-··-·-·-······-·-·..
1,805.05 $ 155,323.40
Luckenbach Fund ...................................................

-·---.$

Deduct annual amortization of bond premiums
restored to Endowment capital ···········-·······
270.54
Total income transferred to the Homes General Fund ....................$ 155,052.86
Capital Ac:c:ounts:
Endowment Luckenbach

--······-··········-*

Balance, August 1, 1952
4,525,348.78 $
Additions to Funds:
Donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit B) ........................... .
546,240.85
5,253.00
Securities (Schedule 1) ............... .
551.11
Due from Homes-Bequest ....... .
Total donations and
bequests ................................
552,044.96
Profit from sales of securities:
Proceeds (Schedule 2) •.............
201,700.29
Less book value ..........................
196,428.85
Net profit ..,...............................
5,271.44
Total additions ..................
557,316.40
Balance, July 31, 1953 .......- ...........- •..$ 5,082,665.18 $

Total

66,265.93 $4,591,614.71

557.316.40
66,265.93 $5,148,931.11

Comments
Cash $457,287 .93
All recorded receipts were properly accounted for and deposited in the
proper funds bank accounts. The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. The total cash as shown on the Balance
Sheet, Exhibit A, is made up of the following accounts:
Treasurer's accounts:
American Trust Company, commerciaL .....................................$ 18,858.27
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co., commercial.................... 119,794.83
Anglo California National Bank, savings .................................... 253,059.11
Bank of America, savings ............................................................ 10,282.17
Operating accounts:
Decoto-Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co......................... 15,146.29
Covina-Security First National Bank........................................ 5,197.99
Covina National Bank...................................................... 6,478.49
Revolving funds:
Deco to ................................................................................................. .
500.00
Covina ········-······•·················--·-······-······-··-··-·······-························ 1,500.00
Deposits in transit from Decoto and Covina................................ 4,051.54
Total general fund cash.....................................--·-················· 434,868.69
Trust Funds-Treasurer's accounts:
1

~Wadleigh
N~~~r14~~t=l~~-~~~---····-·········-·········-··-················
Endowment Fund........................................................

Trus~~u.~l:ii-e:;;a.~iitii.-·a~-~-o~t;;········································

Central Bank, N~s, Decoto residents.........................................r····
Covina National Bank, Covina residents.......- ..............................

8,444.82
4,311.65
112.92
6,257.52
3,292.33

Total trust :funds....•.•.•.~·-············-···-·-··-·-··..··-············-····· 22,419.24
Total cash on hand and in banks....................................$4571287.93
Investments $1,365,894.26
The ·bonds, stocks and investments included under this heading are listed
in detail on Schedule 1. This list includes all securities of the Trust and
Special Purpose funds. However, the Trust Funds' securities are carried in

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

nts are maint ained in order to
separ ate portfo lios and separ ate bank accou
its agree ment.
with
dance
accor
in
fund
accou nt for each trust
se of $110,624.49 over last year.
The inves tment accou nt show s an increa
donat ed secur ities are listed
Bond s and stock s purch ased are listed atn,cost;
wise at a nomi nal value of
other
know
if
ed,
at mark et value when receiv
amou nt due at the death of
the
at
ded
recor
$1.00. Life insura nce polici es are
fully paid up, other wise
are
iums
prem
the insur ed if deter minab le and the
at a value of $1.00.
ed from the sales of doThe notes and contr acts receiv able weredreceiv
balan ce as at July 31, 1953.
unpai
the
at
listed
are
and
rty
prope
nated
st have been receiv ed.
Mont hly paym ents of princ ipal and intere
the Anglo Califo rnia Natio nal
by
held
are
notes
and
s
stock
,
bonds
All
the bank. The life insur ance
from
list
ied
certif
a
by
ed
verifi
were
Bank and
of the Gran d Secre tary
office
the
in
held
are
deeds
estate
real
polici es and
us.
by
cted
and were inspe
Prope rties $2.973.485.92
the cost of the home s at Decot o
The value of the prope rties as shown , is 4.26
was paid for the const ruc$44,55
year
nt
curre
the
g
Durin
a.
Covin
and
.00 for a sprin kler system
$9,964
o,
Decot
at
e
cottag
dent's
inten
super
the
tion of
2.98 of the curre nt costs
$56,89
o.
Decot
at
ture
furni
for
.71
$5,861
and
o
at Decot
cements_._ _ __
Repla
and
ions
Addit
for
ve
Reser
the
from
ded
were expen
Fund s Held In Trust $442.920.70
sits of $14,080.42, which are
With the excep tion of the Resid ents' Depo
child ren at Covin a, these
the
and
nts
reside
o
Decot
the
of
y
mone
nal
perso
st to the Home s for a parbeque
by
or
ion
donat
by
d
create
were
funds
trust
fund durin g the curre nt year are
ticula r purpo se. The activi ties of each
gs accou nts are kept for each fund
savin
ate
Separ
2.
ule
Sched
our
show n on
lios.
portfo
ate
separ
in
d
carrie
are
ities
and the secur
was receiv ed and depos ited in the
The incom e due on the inves tment s made
as requi red by the contr acts
prope r fund. Annu nity paym ents were eigh Endo wmen t Funds . Paym ents
Wadl
and
ity
Annu
carrie d by the Flint
dance with the agree ments . The
from the other trust funds were in accor
durin g the curre nt year, there died
Fund
ity
benef iciary of the Flint Annu
erred to the Flint Trust Fund.
transf
was
fund
fore, the remai nder of this
erred to the Maso nic Home s
transf
be
to
is
The Wadl eigh Endo wmen t Fund
tants.
annui
the
of
Endo wmen t Fund after the death
Fund s Held for Speci al Purpo ses $876,327.97
Trust ees to receiv e donat ions
These funds were create d by the Board of ses
other than the direc t oppurpo
for
used
be
to
are
which
sts
beque
and
these funds durin g the curof
ties
activi
The
s.
Home
the
of
ses
expen
g
eratin
g the year a trans fer of $200,rent year are show n on our Sched ule 3. Durin
wmen t Fund .
Endo
the
to
funds
these
from
made
000.00 was
Total Fund s of the Home s $4,791.472.13
s as at July 31, 1953 is
A summ ary of all funds of the Maso nic Home
:
show n below
740.53
·········-······-··········~···········-····..-·······• 3,505,
ral Fund .....·--·····
332,882.33
Home s GeneTrust
Fund ......- ......................-...................................
C. N. Flint
20,000.00
wmen t Fund............
Georg e M. and Flore nce G. Perin e Endo
55,671.30
-...
....
..........
..........
..........
.
Fund
arship
Stude nts' Loan and Schol
850.00
..
..........
..........
..........
..........
.........
Leon ard Gross Mem orial Fund.
95,878.82
-...................................
Covin a Speci al Fund........... _............. .,.......
28,072.13
....................
Decot o Speci al Fund.........................................................................
14,132.91
Enter tainm ent Fund...................................................
43,800.00
- ...-···-·- ·-·
......
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
Fund
ral
Fune
572,772.81
........:.......
..........
..........
nts
ceme
Repla
and
ions
Addit
for
ve
Reser
121,671.30
.....................
Unap propr iated Reser ve ...~ .............................,.........
472.13
· --·- ..:_ -..·~-~.:....:..;_., __.:_.___..._........ 4,791,
Tot al-- -

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

355

Reve nue and Expe nse
audit ed and the $25.00
'I'.he ~952. annua l return s from the Lodge s were
ed up to July 31,
receiv
ns
ibutio
contr
the
plus
n,
thereo
contr ibutio ns. due
by the Grand Securer
Treas
the
to
over
d
1953, agree with the ~ount turne
nt, $153,952.50,
amou
in
75c,
at
retary . The Ji>E!r capita on 205,270 memb ers
The Endo wtary.
Secre
d
Gran
the
from
urer
Treas
th~
by
was also re.:eiv ed
the Endo wwith
ment
agree
in.
is
s
Home
the
by
ment Fund mco?1e receiv ed
tment s
inves
the
on
due
ends
divid
ment Fun? audit repor t. All intere st and
Lodg es were exgh
throu
ns
ibutio
contr
the
of
ds
recor
The
we~e receiv ed.
all that can be collec ted.
amme d an~ the amou nts receiv ed appea r to be and suppo rted by prope r
s
check
The dlSbu rseme nts were made by
vouch ers.
ed in an exces s of reven ue
The opera tions o~ the Maso nic Home s result
Exhib it B.
by
n
show
as
2.34,
over expen se amou nting to $48,65
Acco untan ts' Opini on .
and statem ent of revIn our opinio n, the acco? 1pany ing balan ce sheet
of the Maso nic Home s
on
positi
ial
enue 8;Ild e~ense prese nt fairly the financ
tions for the fiscal
opera
its
of
s
result
the
and
19!S3
31,
July
at
of Califo rnia
ted accou nting
accep
ally
gener
with
dance
accor
in
ye~ ~nded Jul! 31, 1953,
ding years .
prece
the
of
.that
with
stent
prmc iples appli ed on a basis consi
Respe ctfull y subm itted,
BURR OWS & PARK.ER
Certif ied Publi c Acco untan ts
Walte r A. Parke r

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Exhibit A
Balance Sheet July 31. 1953

Schedule 1
Statement of Securities Owned July 31, 1953
Bonds:
Book Value
$ 5,000 810 South Spring Buildng Co., 31h %, 1964........$
4,450.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970................... .
5,100.00-S
4,000 Southern California Gas Co., 3lf.l%, 1970........... .
4,270.00-S
5,000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971................
5,150.00-S
167,675 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956 ..................... .
124,468.95 -FT
23,600 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957................... .
17,464.00- FT
2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959..·-··········-···
1,628.00-F T
Increased redemptio n value of F bonds ........... .
29,039.37- FT
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1953........
1,000.00
9,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1954....... .
9,000.00-F T
10,100 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 211:!%, 1955....... .
10,100.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955....... .
10,000.00- FT
5,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955........... .
5,000.00-S
1,600 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1956........
1,600.00
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957....... .
100,000.00
60,900 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957 ....... .
60,900.00- FT
7,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958....... .
7,500.00-FT
103,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959....... .
103,405.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1959....... .
10,000.00- P
15,300 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1960....... .
15,300.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960....... .
10,000.00- W
10,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1964-69............... .
10,000.00- P
4,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1965-70............... .
4,157.50-F T
10,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70................
10,372.03- S
5,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965·70............... .
5,000.00-W
5,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70............... .
5,000.00-F T
5,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965................... .
5,000.00-S
1,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1967-72....................
1,000.00

Assets:
Cash on hand and in banks......·-······-····················-·
Accounts Receivable :
Employees , children and others............................
Investmen t: (Schedule 1)
Bonds -·-······-··-·· ········.-.-·-- ·-···--·-··-··· ···--··-····-'
Stocks ···-··························-··················-··-···············
Life insurance policies ..........................................
Notes and contracts receivable· ··················-··-···
Real estate ..............................................................

$

457,287.93
1,591.97

575,699.13
714,385.84
8,758.16
64,197.13
2,854.00

1,365,894.26

Properties : (at cost.-no depreciatio n taken)
Land, buildings and equipment .-Dec?to ........ 2,319,489.49
Land, buildings and equipment .-Covma ........
653,996.43

2,973,485.92

Inventorie s:
Stores and supplies--D ecoto ................................
Stores and supplies-C ovina ···············-··········-···
Livestock- -Covina ·······································-·······

17,481.03
8,853.46
7,935.00

34,269.49

Total assets ···································-··············-··-···

$ 4,832,529.57

Liabilities. Reserves and Capital:
Accounts payable ···-·······················:······················-···
Funds held in trust (Schedule 2) ···················-·······
Funds reserved for special purposes (Schedule 3)

7,540.37
442,920.70
876,327.97

Total liabilities and reserves ···········-···············

1,326,789.04

Capital:
Balance, August 1, 1952 ···········-······-······--·········* 3,400,195.21
Add: Assets purchased from special funds:
New buildings at Decoto ....................................
54,518.26
New furniture at Decoto •...................................
2,374.72
Excess of revenue over expenses for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1953 (Exhibit B)
48,652.34

Balance, July 31, 1953 ................................................

3,505,740.53

Total liabilities, reserves and capital .,..

$ 4,832,529.57

357

Total bonds ···········-······-·················································
Less reserve for amortizati
on of bond premium ....

575,904.85
205.72

Net book value ···-······································-··-·······

575,699.13

•

Stocks:
Shares of Preferred:
10 Armour & Co., $8:00•.•..•·-······-·····:-··········--··-·······
75 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, 4lf.l "'·······-··-··········-·······
25 Celanese Corporatio n of America, 41h% ........... .
75 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp, 3lf.l % ............
100 Liquid Carbonic Co., 31h'l' ..........,-.. ················-···
139 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 5¥.!% ........................
167 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% ...- .......................
527 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 8%····-·············-··-···
300 Philadelph ia Electric Co., $1.00...........- .........:..•....
270 Public Service Electric & Gas Co., $1.40 ........
125 Public Service Electric & Gas Co., $1.40........... .
41 Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% ....... - .. .
125 Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% ................
22 United Aircraft Corp., 5% .•.....·-·····-··-··-· ··--··-···
25 United Air Lines, Inc. 41,2% ................................... .
175 York Corp., 41,2 % ···-··:···-··············-·························

Total preferred ···················-······-···································

600.00
7,528.60
2,456.85
7,246.68
8,035.60
4,869.75
5,346.25
14,000.00- S
7,644.69
7,360.00
3,399.31-S
653.26
1,071.39--S
2,716.20
2,475.60
6,937.69
82,341.87

359

GRAND LODGE . OP CALIFORNIA

358

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Shar es of Com mon :
7,536.38
.....................:............•.
250 Air Red ucti on Co-.................
5,832.95
.........
........
........
........
Corp
Dye
&
l
mica
Che
75 Alli ed
4,861.93
.........
........
........
........
Co
ucts
Prod
e
Hom
n
125 Ame rica
4,076.99
.
........
........
Co
h
grap
Tele
&
e
phon
25 Ame rica n Tele
7,831.85
····
·······
·······
·····-····--····-·
14,102.44
125 Ame rica n Tob acco Co···
-··-·
······
·--··
.. _.u..·--·-···-·7,47 9.95 -FT
534 Ame rica n Tru11t Co,........
·.:............
.......·-··-········--····
t Co
1.00
266 Ame rica n Trus........
.
....
........
........
........
........
........
........
112 Ami gos Oil Co
8,671.15
.
...
........
........
........
k
Ban
onal
250 Ang lo Cali forn ia Nati
4,313.88
.................................
125 Atla ntic Refi ning Co................
1,323.00
.
.......
........
........
........
42 Ban k of Ame rica........................
4,550.00
·····
... ·-··············-····
5,429.08
100 Ban kers Trus t Co........................ ················-········
·······
·-··-··
·····-·
7,81 0.36 -FT
150 Bea trice Food s Co····--····
-··-··
····-·
··-···
···-..
Food s Co·-·····-·
5,282.45
200 Bea triceAvia
.............. .
........
........
........
........
Corp
tion
100 Ben dix
4,497.81
:······························.
thw est Corp········
5,327.30
267 Cen tral & Sou
~ .............
..
Corp
tric
Elec
&
Gas
son
500 Cen tral Hud
4,609.38
·····
·······
·······
···-·-·
..•--···
4,350.00
125 Cha se Nati onal Ban k..........
···
······
-···-·
-··-··
·---··
k & Trus t Co..ing
5,884.49
..
100 Che mica ld Ban
......
........
.......
Co
inat
Illum
120 Clev elan Elec tric
7,044.85
.
.....
........
........
........
........
........
150 Colu mbi a Carb on Co-. Co.......................................
8,619.15
.88
275 Com mon wea lth Edis on of New York , Inc........ .
4,880
150 Con solid ated Edis on Co. ........................................
.42
5,295
125 Con tine ntal Can Co., Inc.
.90
3,148
···
···-··-··-·-········
Co.·-············-·······
6,469.37
50 Con tine ntal Oil
...........................
Co
t
Trus
&
k
Ban
e
hang
Exc
Corn
100
8,362.28
-····
ning Co.•.....·-··-· ·-···· ······-······
32.50
125 Corn Prod ucts RefiCo
·-·····
...
........
........
........
........
g
atin
30 Cov ina Irrig
3,038.86
.......... .
........
........
........
Co
t
Ligh
&
er
Pow
125 Dela ware
5,655.90
··············
·············-··········-···
on Co•..·-·····........
6,951.66
.
....
250 Detr oit Edis
........
........
........
........
........
Co
t
250 Duq uesn e Ligh
1.00
.
......
........
........
..
Assn
ple
Tem
1 Dun smu ir Mas onic
4,640.59
··
·····-·
·-·····
·-··-·
....
20,400.00
116 East man Kod ak Co.........•............. ............................ .
1,200 Ewa Plan tatio n Co........................
1,087.80
.
........
........
........
Corp
l
mica
25 Food Mac hine ry & Che mica l Corp.................... .
7,584.22- FT
200 Foo d Mac hine ry & Che
.88
4,396
.
....
........
Corp
n
tatio
150 Gen eral Ame rica n Tran spor
6,008.18
................
........
........
........
........
Co-.
tric
Elec
100 Gen eral
5,729.03
.........................
285 Gen eral Pub lic Util ities Corp........
1,000.00
·
-··-··
-····· ···-·· ··--··
3,993.27
40 Glen dora Wat er Co...............·-····....
-··
........ --····-·············
78 Gulf Oil Corp................................
3,187.50
.
........
........
........
........
........
Co
110 Haw aiian Elec tric
6,779.03
··
···-·· -··-·· -····· ·-··-·
100 Herc ules Pow der Co·- ·····- ··-··· ................ ·-··· ···
4,771.27
........
........
127 Hers hey Cho cola te Corp
4,408.97
.
......
........
.........
128 Hom e Insu ranc e Co. of New York
5,213.28
··--·· -·-··· ·-··-· ···•··
7.92
150 lliin ois Pow er Co......·-···· ··-··24,34
·
.,.....................---··
1,430 Imp eria l Oil, Ltd.........................
.77
5,601
:
..
........
........
........
204 Kan sas City Pow er & Ligh t Co
8,606.12
..
........
........
........
........
........
.
Corp
per
125 Ken neco tt Cop
5,591.21
.........................
125 Kop pers Co., Inc................................
1,432.00
.
..
........
........
........
........
Co
Gas
7,160 Kutz Can yon Oil &
8,524.76
.
........
........
........
250 Libb ey Owe ns Ford Glas s Co........
2,385.78
.
...
........
,
........
........
........
........
100 Lon e Star Gas Co........
10,357.35
.......................... .
175 Man ufac ture rs Trus t Co................
1.00
.
...
........
........
........
eda
Alam
of
.
6 Mas onic Hall Assn
1.00
.
.......
........
e........
16 Mas onic Tem ple Assn . of Frui tval
1.00
.
.......
........
........
kton
Stoc
of
2 Mas onic Tem ple Assn .

6...................................

160 Mid dle Sou th Utiliti~s In
1'75 Min neso ta Pow er & Li g'ht o........................ - .......
75 Mon sant o Che mica l C 0
······· ······· ·····-· ·····-· ······· ······· ·
250 Mon tana Pow c
'""·hi··--····-···-····--···-·······
'c"O
r3&"
.Wa
ery
tgom
Mon
100
I ·• c.................................
125 McK esso n & R 0 bb ·
· ............................
100 Nati onal Cash Re i:ie:1~··-··-··
······-··-···········
···--sr;~··
S
tric
Ele!
land
Eng
464 New
& G Co.........................
220 N~w Yor k Stat e Elec tri{
as Co.....................
303 Niag ara Moh awk Pow er C
.............................
550 No~hern Stat es Pow er co........
--···-··-······-···
-·--·
0....
-~~
C
___
..
182 Ohio Ed·1son o..
-··--------- ............
-~·--··
C
100 Ohio Oil
···········-···············
25 Owe ns Illin~i;-ai;~;·cc;::·············-·················-··-···
''---cO:_
tric
330 Paci fic Gas & Elec
•····-·:-·-·····--•············
125 Park e, Dav is & Co ·
ris & c0':-i,"t.i""'"--······--·····--···..···-········
125 Phil lip Mor
200 Phil lips PetroleUm.
······· ···-··· ······· -···
248 Pub lic Serv ice Co. of rn""-: "...··-···························
······
:~:···
tric
Elec
ice
Serv
lic
250 Pub
Co.........................
131 Rem ingt n R d Inc
····················
·······
525 Remingt~n &~d 1n··--·-··-············-···········
-······
..
rnk
c~o
~f
co.
s
r Farm
1,629 Rive
...............................
110 St. Jose ph Lead Co......
··-·-· ·-··-· ·.-··- ,·--- ..- ...........
C
250 St. Reg is p
o................- .....- ................~ ...... .
51h San Dim ~
0
;··A.8;~····Ltd······-···
16 San Fran~sco 'a-~;;;;H;"i·"L-;;;;
·········
"
160 Secu rity Firs t Nati onal Ban k. ···········•···················
50 Shel l Oil Co
·····-··-..···-·-···
125 Shel lrna r Pr;ci{.i~~··a--············ ..······
...............................
150 Sou ther n Cali forn ia ~0;;··co.............................
253 Sou ther n Rea lt
250 Stan dard Brancfs
of
114 Stan dard Oil Co.'
a..............................C
250 Ster ling D
f
0
50 Tex as Gul~ul
·····-· ·-····· ··-·-· ···--· ·-···
626 Tran sam eric a ~ ..··-···········
···-··-······-···················
·······
or.p
c
eri
sam
500 Tran
""········- ......................
·c"()
b~;.&zpc~
~~e
Carb
150 Unio n
·····························
ourfP
Miss
of
250 Unio n Elec tric Co.
···············-·······
·······
ia
forn
125 Unio n Oil Co. of Cali
··-··················-···········
225 Unit ed Gas ,..__
···
·······-························....
eM:~·-····--· ..........
250 · Unit ed Shorieu
........................ .
Co
ery
ltur
A
alua
Wai
1,200
......._. ...................
125 Wes ting ho!e Elec e. Co................
······························
307 Wis cons in Elec tric tr~~;:;··c;;:··
··············-·······
·····:·65 F. W. Woo lwor th
.....~....................
60 F. W. Woo lwor th Co........................
Co...······:··········-..········-···············
L

Co.':""........................................

c

-··-··--··-..···-··
······-··-···-···
i:-····--"'tom
i·····- --·-····--·-·-·
Bau

iw:·c···········..·-·················--····..······

3,566.49
6,025.42
6,807.40
5,387.28
6,278.29
4,588.56
5,532.50
5,846.69
5,199.26
7,113.54
5,525.71
5,396.38
5,456.43
1,825.40
10,428.69
5,590.98
6,529.32
8,14 8.23 -FT
6,440.26
5,568.84
2,644.02
9,13 4.68 -FT
48,870.00
5,140.03
4,979 .08
l,0'72.50
1.00
8,850.00- FT
3,500.12
4,427.62
5,127.58
399 .00- FT
5,603.87
3,520.70
9,905.95
5,376.20
10,049.95
5,87 3.25 -FT
8,460.68
5,714.08
4,885.63
5,477.12
10,452.41
10,200.00
4,470.65
5,562.10
2,999.62
2,76 7.37 -S

............
.
Tota l e.om
• mon. ........................................................

632,043.97

•
Tota l stocks...........-...............................··-······-··-··--····

714,385.84

..

360

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Life Insuran ce Policies :
···-··
Acacia Life Insuran ce Co._...... - ....•..••..•.·-······--· -··············-··········-··-·- ···
Banker s Nation al Life Insuran ce Co-..·-··.............
................. .
Electric al Worker s Benefit Aasn..............
.
Equitab le Life Assura nce Society...............- ..........................
Genera l Americ an Life Insuran ce Co..•..................................
G. I. A. Relief Assn. to B. of L. E.-2 policies........................
Guaran ty Union Life Insuran ce Co..·-··················-···········
····
Homes teaders Life Assn.-·-··················-··-··-·······················
··-···
Kansas City Life Insuran ce Co•..·-··········-········.········-····
.......·-·········-···············
Lincoln Nation al Life Insuran ce Co&
Locomo tive Engine ers Mutual Life
Accide nt Insuran ce Aian.•.............·-······-·····························
Low Twelve Club, Antigo, Wiscon sin................................... .
t...... ·-··············- ·······
Low Twelve Club of the 87th Distric:Policies
................... .
Manufa cturers Life Insuran ce Co.-2
·················
·······-····
·-······-···
..........
Assn.
Benefit
Marin Mutual
Metrop olitan Life Insuran ce Co.-12 policies................... .
New York Life Insuran ce Co................"·······-·······················
Paul Revere Life Insuran ce Co•..·-··-·····································
-··•···--······-············-································.·
Pierce Bros...·-··-······
Pruden tial Insuran ce Co. of Americ a-28 -policie s...........
.
San Francis co Post Office Clerks Union. ..............................
State Mutual Insuran ce Co...................................................... .
Sun Life Assura nce Co. of Canada...... ·-·······························
Travele rs Insuran ce Co. of Hartfor d, Conn.........................
Travele rs, Aetna & Equitab le Insuran ce Co...·-·················
United Benefit Life Insuran ce Co•.• ·-········~······-··-···········
Widow s and Orphan s Fund:
Aahme s Temple......·-··-··································-······-···············
··•··...··•···•············································ ·········
Alham bra ···-···--·
Califor nia Bodies Scottis h Rite........................................... .
William s Funera l Chape l........ ·-········-······-·····························
Women 's Benefit Assn-······-······················-·····························
Total insuran ce policies.·-···························-···············

118.90
1.00
1.00
1.00
471.78
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
245.84
693.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
1.00
906.00
2,000.00
259.00
1.00
1,842.64
1.00
1.00
1,000.00
1,000.0Q
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
200.00
1.00

361

Miscell aneous:

····················
~···················
=~i=~;eii-··19····m:
~:ait~~~:3e~ improv
pls ls..·-··················-···········
ed-9

2,854.00
Total miscell aneous.......-······-···········································
365 894 26
Total Securit ies...........................:...-··-··········-· ---····-----·--·-·········--··• 1' , .

s securiti es carried in se
NOTE: The above c1:msolidated stateme nt include
Parate portfoli os,. as coded, for the followi ng trust funds:
FT-C. N. Flint Trust Fund
p -Georg e M: and Florenc e Perine Endow ment Fund
S -Schol arship Fund
W-Ha rriet C. Wadlei gh Endow ment Annuit y Fund
Schedu le 2
Statem ent of Funds Held in Trust
For The Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1953
C. N. Flint Annuit y Fund

··-·········
··-··-··
~:i~n~ie!~Ft;~;; fu9::s~e~t;·-··..........··
........................
........................

$

Total
Deduct:·······-···································································

··-···········$
···-····
~;~;~~<>°P.ifu~~~t-FW1--········d ...
-...........................

Mault, Abert, and Claris Hall.-·································-···········
Tavern ier, John M. and Manue la.. ·-··································-···
Tout, Otis B. and Estella M...·-··································-···········
Wilson , Richard and Rosetta....................................................
Total notes and contrac ts receiva ble......................... .

64,197.13

··································
Hayden , Mary................·-········-··-··-·······
Loring, Lucien ....... - .....................................................................

92,444.87
2,527.57
94,972.44

300.00
4
94,672.4

94,972.44

Balance , July 31, 1953.................................- .............. .

8,758.16

3,307.92
204.97
2,400.00
4,213.73
4,975.00
7,472.50
5,725.72
3,267.67
4,963.22
9,595.60
2,950.50
1,000.00
3,950.00
6,770.45
209.28
3,190.57

19.00
2,708.00
2.00
125.00

Real Estate,
ls parce ·······················-··········-··-···
Minera l rights- 2
···············
Real estate held f~r~dci~e~i-·FU.n···················
d ............................... .

Nil

C. N. Flint Trust Fund

~d~~ce, August 1, 1952..................·-··-····-···············
Notes and Contrac ts Receiva ble:
Agers, William H. and Lucile C•.......·-·-··1-···········--···-····-···
Baumg artner, May Parker........................................................
Barber , George W .•.·-······-··-··-····································-······-···
Bouche r, Claudi a.................. _.. _................................-··-······-···
Craney , Orman d E. and Carol J •.......·-··-······ ·· ...··-············-···
Davis, Paul W. and Axine E. .........•..................·-···-··-·-·······
Evanso n, Herma n 0. and Sara L ...·-·······································
····················
Ervin, Artis and Annie Lee-··-··-·-··-··--···-·-·····
Frantz, Emile and Margue rite F ............................................ .
Hall, Lester M. and Mary E. ................................................•...

Nil

~o!it from sal~ of investm ents........................... ·$
D1v1dends and mteres t from investm ents
Transfe r from Flint Annuit y Fund.......... ::::::::::

$
7,782.93
9,327.46
94,672.44

230,426.96

111,782.83
342,209.79

Total···································-·
Deduct , transfe r of net yield ft.()i;;:"in~;~tm~ni;···
to Decoto Special Fund ....................................... .
Balance , July 31, 1953............................................... .

9,327.46

$

332,882.33

Leonar d Gross Memor ial Fund
.................................________
Contrib utions ·······-·········--l.~........._______................ ___ ,.. _

850.00

George M. and Florenc e G. Perine Endow ment Fund
1
·······································---········_.
Add,n~ie~~f1Co~ =!;tme n········
ts............................................................

20,000.00
500.00

Bala

Total ...................................... .

········

20,500.00

1 Fund...................................,.......................- ...... .
Balanc e July 3ref953
.......................................$

500.00
20,000.00

Ded~gtb~~~!ff of :rt yield from·fii~~stmenb························

'

'

.......................................

362

363

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
Balance, August 1, 1952................. ·-·······-···············$
Add:
Dividends and income from investments........$
2,429.33
Less reserve for amortization of bond
premiums ···················-································-···
17.76
Total ........................................................................
Deduct, disbursed for educational purposes..........

Balance, July 31, 1952........•.....-..................................

$

59,450.73

2,411.57
61,862.30
6,191.00

: ee!f ~praying in picnic areas ..............................
USlC mstruction..................................................... .
{;~a\ ~struct~on..................................................... .

·····························
sCer:mk:~~~l"o~---················
...............................................
.
~~finJe~:J:::::···················································
Sundries ...........................................................
··-··-··-··-··-··-··············-······-···
_..............................

88.50
847.65
51.59
560.99
528.85
656.16
20.00
137.94

----- $
Balance, July 31, 1953..........•........•..................•.........

110,690.94
95,878.82

55,671.30
Decoto Special Fund

Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
Balance, August 1, 1952...............................................-·······-·····-···········$
Add, interest from investments................................................:-.........

20,154.81
506.84

Total ·······--······················.·····················································r·············
Deduct, payments on contract.............................................,..................

20,661.65
1,350.00

Balance, July 31, 1953..................·-··--··--··-·-·r··-··-··"1"···-·····.....$

19,311.65

~d.lcr1ce, August 1, 1912................................._.......... _...

Residents' Deposits

Decoto residents..........................................................................................
Covina children..........................................................................................

10,788.09
3,292.33

Total -··•···---··-··-·····-··-······-··-····"_...........................................f

14,080.42

Endowment Fund

Real :r.tate..................:..............:··.. ·····················-····························-····-··
Total funds held in trust..............·-··········-······-············-···············$

125.00
442,920.70

~eq~ests ··-··-····-··"'····,·-·,--·····-············· ·-········
Tut income from real estate.................................
.
Transfer of Flint Trust income............................
ansfer of Perine Fund income........................Total ···-······-······-··········-··············-··-···················
Deduct:
~sfer to Endowment Fund..............................
chase of Chevrolet automobile......................
P 1ans of service plant........................................... .

96,003.91
65,000.00
2,331.78
600.00

67,931.78
28,072.13

Entertainment Fund
Balance, August 1, 1952......................................·-·····
Add, contributions.............•..........................................

$

18,021.31
9,183.74

Schedule 3

Balance, July 31, 1953•..·-·····················-··-··-···········

27,205.05
2,065.00
3,826.37
7,180.77

13,072.14

$

14,132.91

~~dee, ~ugust 1, 19152............................................................................$

, receipts from Unappropriated Reserve.............................. ;.....

43,350.00
6,612.25

t!81fuii.~;:;;1-expen;;e:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

49,962.25
6,162.25

Balance, July 31, 1953.............1
·-··-·-······-··-··-·-··-··-··-··········---···f

43,800.00

Funeral Fund

127,087.05

0

DedJc
79,482.71
206,569.76

100,000.00
2,298.22
1,018.50
1,630.84
1,848.76
211.06
164.57
465.33
161.98

16,398.65

$

Note: Separate bank accounts and securities portfolios are maintained for
these funds.

Total ........................................................................
Deduct:
Transferred to Endowment Fund ........................
Construction of pigsty........................................... .
Construction of wood shop................................... .
Construction rest rooms in picnic area. .......... .
Irrigation pump in pasture land.,......................
Purchase of television set......................................
Purchase of bookkeeping machine parts............
Purchase of livestock scales..................................
Purchase of .g ymnasium supplies........................

6,554.55
16.64
9,327.46
500.00

79,605.26

Balance, July 31, 1953........................... -··-······-··-···

Total·······-··································-···························
Deduct:
•
Decoto Christmas........... -··········-··········-········-·······
Decoto entertainment............................................. .
Covina entertainment............................................. .

Statement of Funds Held for Special Purposes
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1953
Covina Special Fund
Balance, August 1, 1952..............................................
$
Add:
Bequests -·-·-······-·-·-···············-····-··-··---···$
74, 795. 74
Contributions ............................................................
3,519.73
Net income from real estate..................................
1,167.24

$

Reserve for Additions and Replacements
~~';Fee, August 1, 1952..............................................

---·---··-··-··-··-··-··-·-·-···*

Bequests
Transfer from Unappro:priated Reserve............
Profit from sale of, and income from,
property donated to the fund..........................

Total·······························-··-·······························

$

370,732.27

107,107.23
150,000.00
16,957.43

274,064.66
644,796.93

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Deduct:
Replacements and repairs..............·-·····················
New buildings--Decoto..........................................
New furniture-Decoto ·······-·································
Balance, July 31, 1953.................................................

15,131.14
54,518.26
2,374.72

72,024.12
572,772.81

Unappropriated Reserve

Balance, August 1, 1952.·-···-······-··-·························
Add:
Profit on sale of, and income from,
pro~erty donated to the fund ............................$
Contributions by applicants..................................
Pensions ................................................................... .
Deceased residents' deposits......·-·························
Total ........................................................................
Deduct:
Monthly grants to residents............................... .
Transfer to Reserve for Additions and
Replacements ·······························-·······················
Transfer to Endowment Fund............................
Transfer to Funeral Fund..·-··················-·-·······

$
1,918.40
83,133.11
42,708.00
5,036.91

198,117.13

132,796.42

-----

330,913.55

150,000.00
35,ooo.op
6,612.25

209,242.25

Balance, July 31, 1953...•..................................·-·······

121,671.30

Total funds held for special purposes ..

$

876,327.97

Exhibit B
Statement of Revenue and Expense
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1953

$

----Income from investments............. .
Profit from sales of securities ....
S~dry income ............................... .

Total revenue ......................
Expense
Operation of Homes:
Decoto (Exhibit C) .....·-··············
Covina (Exhibit D) ....................
Outside relief ................................. .
Administrative and general:
Taxes-real estate ......................
Taxes--payroll ............................
Insurance ..................................... .
Refund of $25.00 contributions
of prior years--net ............... .

262,675.00

48,935.04
3,996.98
458.88

363,330.35
155,193.10
9,821.50

1,675.00

9,000.00
6,551.10
3,590.38
1,718.68
1,200.00
1,190.70
1,203.04
78.45
1,350.00
83.00
19,916.54

----Total expense .......................... .

75,680.37

$

604,025.32
48,652.34

$

373,834.80

$

10,504.45
363,330.35

Excess of Revenue Over Expense
Exhibit C
Statement of Direct Operating Expenae-Decoto
For the Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1953
Operating Expense:
Maintenance"-·--·····-··-··-·········-······--··············-$ 148,124.94
Hospital and medical ............................................
104,211.67
Farm and garden ....................................................
20,670.41
Laundry ·······································-···························
9,964.59
Heating plant ..........................................................
11,971.96
Paint shop ................................................................
3,640.07
Transportation ···············-····································-···
2,058.50
General and administrative ................................
73,192.66

9,640.00
316.68 .
476.51
71.26

27,606.40

$

968.52
3,777.77
14,864.08

5,860.05
2,653.06

Total (Refer to Exhibit E for details) ......... .
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm production ............................................... .
Profit from canteen ·····························-·············
Salvage ·······-··-······················-·····························
Sundry revenue ..................................................
Net operating exepense ........................................... .

153,952.50
155,052.86
12,075.00
15,531.40

Social welfare agents:
Northern district ................... .
Southern district ....................
Secretary's and assistant's
salaries ..................................... .
Pensions--retired employees ..
Trustees expense ........................
Auditing ........................................
Safekeeping of securities ..........
Telephone and postage ............. .
Office supplies and printing..... .
Legal and notary fees ..............
Investment 'Service ................... .
Sundry expense ......................... .
Motion picture production ... .

. 17,630.00

----- $

Revenue
$25.00 Homes contributioncurrent year ·······-·························
Per capita dues from Lodges1952 returns ···························-···
Endowment Fund income ........... .
Contributipns through Lodges:
Decoto ···-·····················-···············*
Covina ..........................................

365

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

652,677.66

Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Operating Exepense-Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1953
Operating Expense:
Maintenance···-····-···-·····-··········~---···-·······-·······* 142,234.71
Administrative expense ........................................
21,338.86
Total (Refer to Exhibit F for details) ............
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm production ..................................................
Discounts earned ·······-··································-···
Net Operating Expense ............................................

$
8,284.07
96.40

163,573.57

8,380.47

$

155,193.10

366

Exhibit E
Detailed Operating Expem.-Decoto
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1953
Maintenance
Food:
Groceries ···-······-··-···..·--··-··-··-'
·······
Meat ·······················-··············........
.
Fish .......................................
Fruit and vegetables ..................
Butter, milk and eggs ................
Bakers' supplies ···············-·········
Total food cost ....................... .
Less charge to hospital
for meals ..................................

Kitchen and dining room:
Repairs and maintenance ....... .
Expense ···-··-··-··-······················
Salaries and wages ···-···················
Sundry:
Residents' supplies ....................
Dry goods and bedding ........... .

25,151.76
27,199.30
1,910.64
13,499.00
31,277.77
3,977.42
103,015.89
22,809.54 $

2,458.16
3,752.43
1,262.96
1,751.84

$

148,124.94

Hospital and Medical
36,775.21
22,809.54
4,718.70
1,159.62
37,041.04
1, 707 .56

Laundry
Salaries and wages ....................... .
Supplies and expense ··············-··

8,480.71
1,483.88

Heating Plant
Salaries and wa~es ....................... .
Repairs and maintenance ........... .

11,339.16
632.80

Paint Shop
Salaries and wages ....................... .
Supplies and expense ···-··········-···

2,870.08
769.99

-----

2,058.50

General and Administrative
Superintendent and office
salaries ···············-············-···········
Light, heat, power and water ....
Office supplies and printing ....... .
Telephone and telegraph ........... .
Repairs and maintenance ............
Furniture and eqUipment ........... .
Miscellaneous expense ..................

27,653.97
22,754.04
962.22
1,430.80
13,525.19
4,451.99
2,414.45

73,192.66

$

Detailed Operating Expense-Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1953

3,014.80

13,532.81
547.58
355.82
2,679.09
3,555.11

290.00
940.22
828.28

Exhibit F

6,210.59
58,693.20

Farm and Garden
Salaries and wages ......................
Tools and equipment ................... .
Seeds ·······-··········-··-·························
····-·······
···-··-··-······-··················
Feed
expense ..................
Miscellaneous

Transportation
Salaries and wages ....................... .
Gas and oil ....................................... .
Tires and repairs ·······················-···

Total operating expense-Decoto

80,206.35

Total maintenance expense

Salaries and wages --··-··-··-·······
Meals to staff and patients ........
Medical supplies ·······-·-··-···········
Dental expense ···-···························
Surgical expense ···········-···············
Eye, ear, pose and throat ........... .

367

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1(}4,211.67

20,670.41

9,964.59

11,971.96

\

·~

3,640.07

Maintenance
Care of Children
Food:
Meat .........-...-"-··-•·············.-'"·'
Fruits and vegetables .............-Butter, milk and eggs ........... .
Bakery goods ......................... .
Miscellaneous groceries ........
Outside lJleals ....................... .

10,602.22
3,494.69
8,014.62
1,682.54
1,764.12
3,201.91 $

28,760.10

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries ......................................
Supplies and repairs ............. .
Replacements ......................... .

10,045.41
8,633.11
396.98

19,075.50

Clothing:
Ready-to-wear ·······-··-···········
Cleaning and repair ................
Dry goods and notions ..........

2,654.01
597.81
270.29

3,522.11

Laundry:
Salaries ......................................
Supplies and repairs ............

4,252.79
2,155.76

6,408.55

Dormitories:
Salaries ··········-··························
Supplies and repairs ............. .
Replacements ···················-·····

22,195.84
1,978.78
941.83

25,116.45

Domestic science cottage:
Supplies and repairs ..............
Replacements ···-·····················

43.76
89.37

133.13

373,834.80

368

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Hospital and medical:
Salaries ··'····-············- ···············
Dentists' fees ..........................
Medicine and drugs ................
Other supplies and repairs
Outside hospital and x-ray ..

4,330.43
2,465.57
662.48
191.41
800.78

General expense:
Miscellaneous expense ..........

8,450.67
986.25
92,452.76

$

Total care of children ..
General House, Property and Farm Expense:
Power plant:
Salaries ......................................
Supplies and repairs ............

630.50
5,372.46

6,002.96

Repairs to buildings:
Salaries ···-······-··-········-···········
Supplies and repairs ..............
Replacements ·······-·················

12,127.30
7,713.45
185.64

20,026.39

Farm and grounds:
Salaries ··································- ··
Supplies and maintenance ..
Replacements ··--·······-··--··-···
Animal husbandry ..................
Swimming pool ......................

9,414.68
2,457.07
1,001.00
3,001.08
24.23

15,898.06

Orchard expense:
Salaries ·······-··········-········- ··-···
Supplies and maintenance ..
Water ......... . .............. . ....... . . _.............. ...... .

143.34
438.76
372.45

954.55

General expense
Gas, water and light ..............
Sundry supplies and expense
Equipment expense ................

5,988.24
584.10
327.65

6,899.99

Total house, property and
farm expense ............

49,781.95

Total maintenance cost

142,234.71

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND
Mem1949
1950
1951
Name
bership
1953
1952
No.
1 California ·······-········· 548 $ 649.50 $1,177.50 $1,155.40 $1,108.00$1,154.00
2 Western Star ............ 158
210.00
······- ··· 113.00
80.00
86.00
3 Tehama· ·······- ··- ········· 804 1,544.00 1,569.50 1,542.50 1,747.75 1,928.00
244.50
120.50
228
142.50 329.00
5 Benicia
141.00 216.00
288.00
73.80 230.00
8 Tuolumn~·-:::::::::::::::::: 242
437
163.60 181.50
178.50
9 Corinthian
260.00 277.50
344.50 375.50
361.50
423.89 705.50
10 San Jose ···- ··-············ 541
38.50 208.50
202.00
12 Yount ·--··-·-········. ······ 546
260.50 312.00
83.50
48.00
63.00
13 Nevada ........... _.. __ ................. 172
80.80
63.50
58.00
14 Tem~e ................................ . ...... 216
38.00
122.00 172.85
95.00
338
16 Eure a
275.00 308.00
101.00
204.50 247.00
75.00
150.50 247.75
17 La Parfait;·u~io~.::: 118
158.00 263.00
22.00
135.00
18 Mountain Shade ....... 50
201.50 321.70
425.00
19 San Joaquin .............. 813
299.75 560.50
659.00 1,157.50 743.00
20 Washington .............. 838
868.50 1,921.50
837.00 1,065.00 1,049.50
21 Hawaiian ................... ....... ...... 466
967.40 953.50
390.25
496.00 345.50
22 Occidental ........................... 709
413.60 624.00
114.64
23 Madison ·············-······ 325
91.34 136.51
118.06 240.50
170.75
102.50 197.50
24 Mariposa .................... 202
362.00 265.00
12.50
61
25 Georgetown ..............
20.00
15.00
1,020.11
480.50
488.00 516.00
26 El Dorado ···········-······ 268
192.00
39.50
164.00
27 Trinity ......................... 139
198.00
303.50
311.00 612.50
477.00 760.50
30 Golden Gate .............. 660
34.00
97.00
82.50
32 Gold Hill .................... 116
38.00
31.00
40.50
104.50
78.00
78
33 Ophir ..........................
35 San Diego· .................. 1030 1,857.00 2,270.30 1,964.00 2,025.00 2,318.00
284.50
76.50
50.00
53.00
37 Howard ...................... 250
135.00
146.00 302.00
70.50
143.50
38 Santa Cruz ·········-······ 524
388.00
774.40 1,119.39 1,558.00 1,639.50
40 Sacramento ............ ............... 759
687.75
769.00
312.35 365.18
41 Martinez .................... 402
515.00
2,848.00 1,871.00 1,874.00
42 Los Angel'es .......•...... 769
12.00
7.00
43 Hiram . ......................................... 101
456.00
384.00 280.00
359.00 441.50
44 Mount Moriah ...,...... 409
185.00
200.00
370.00 224.00
102.50
45 Crescent ........................., . ---- 197
55.00
55
46 Texas ...........................
110
176.00 104.00
161.00 250.00
50 Forbestown ···-··········
91
5.00
91.00 12!f.oo
89.50
51 Illinoistown _______.............
82.00
179.00
208.50 181.00
188.00
55 Suisun ···········-··········· 239
165.50
129.00
84
91.50
60.00
91.00
56 Volcano ·····-··- ·····----··
136.00
42.00 100.50
86.50 201.50
57 Santa Rosa .........,·-··· 632
2,075.70 1,004.00 1,453.00 1,500.00
58 Union···········-····-······· 735
78.00
68
52.50
98.50 119.00
67.50
59 Gravel Range ..........
127.50
60 Plumas ····-----------. --···· 205
246.50 274.00
426.00
940.00
61 Live Oak .................... 1018
825.00 1,440.00 1,350.00 2,800.00
170.50
64 Natoma
136.50 158.00
154.25
133.00
. ·········· 253
69.75
84
65 Amador············-········
294.41
147.50
26
66 Forest ........................
749.50
68 Morning Star ............ 649
827.00 849.50
890.50 1,000.00
70 Enterprise . ............ .... ...... 350
2.00 362.00
326.50
2.00
20.00
76 Bear Mountain ........ 75
64.50
47.00
21.50
11.25
61.50
116
78 Calaveras
16.00
49.50
122.50
150.00
79 Humboldt :::::::::::::::::: 494
334.50 348.50
159.35
72.00
17.00
116.50
87
80 Ione ............... ........... ..............
19.50
10.00
81 Yolo ······-·········-·········
63.50
96
68.00
49.50
46.00
31.00
84 Vesper .................•...... 238
17.00
9.00
14.50
87 Naval ···-·····-·············· 1233 1,683.70 1,419.79 1,953.90 2,448.00 2,155.15
89 Rose's Bar -····-······· 34
19.00
8.00
11.00
30.00
.. .... u . ......... . . . . . . . . .

-·------

Administrative Expense
Salaries ..............................................
Stationery, printing and postage
Telephone and telegraph ..............
Freight and express ·············-·······
Automobile expense ···········- ···-····
Miscellaneous expense ···········-·····

12,254.71 .
3,314.18
1,514.33
81.35
3,113.83
1,060.46

_

21,338.86

Total administrative expense ..
Total Operating Expense-Covina

$

163,573.57

369

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

370

,..

•

Mem-

1953
1952
1951
1950
1949
bership
Name
9.00
10.00 ............ $ 16.00$
'7.50
'ii" North Star .........•...... 63
341.04 275.00
109.50
46.00
93 St. Helena •................ 135
137.00 204.00
108.50
2.50
82
99.50
95 Henry Clay -··-········
232.05 116.30
58.00
72.50
102
86.50
98 Hornitos ·----··-··---988.50
647.50
347.00 312.50 552.50
99 Yosemite -·---·-·"'···--- 489
47.50
49.00
53.50
99
23.00
60.50
101 Clay.--··············-········
35.00
90.50
133.50
26.00 118.00
103 Oroville ···-·················· 346
300.00
250.00
300.00 250.00 250.00
104 Lexington -··-······-······ 564
652.50
267.00
428.00
124.50 218.00
106 Arcata ·····-····-····'······ 324
218.27 595.00
30.00
10.00
101.75
110 Pajaro ···········-···--······ 408
627.00
385.00
20.00 525.50
19'7.50
111 Chico ·····-···-·-··-······ 526
44
112 Sununit ···-·····-········· 442
269.70 397.29
162.64 199.49 149.65
113 Eden ·····-····-····--···---·
424.50
371
245.50
350.00
372.50
219.00
117 Concord ···-·····-········
1,236.00
919_go
561
1,325.99
332.50
1,210.00
.........•.....•......
Fidelity
120
184.00 126.00 213.25
184.27 200.00
122 Alamo ...................-... ----- 422
80.50
205
64.00
157.00
135.00
...................
Sotoyome
123
141.50
53.50
80.00
124 Table Mountain ....... 205
69.50
74.50
9.50
93.50
34.00
126 Lafayette ·------········ 223
183.50 156.00 204.50
249.50 340.55
127 Hermann ·····-··--······· 209
1,462.25 1,317.20 1,624.50 1,279.60 1,269.00
128 Visalia ··-······-··--······ 552
80.00
37.00
14.00
50.00
129 Nicolaus ....,........ .............. 106
25.00 123.00
120.50 352.00
16.00
131 Woodbridge ·····-······· 175
7.00 109.50 152.50
64.00
132 Sincerity ...•................ 100
83.50
175.24 263.00
108.00
134 Vacaville ···--··-······· 224
35.50
95
20.00
135 Valley
... ----·· 591
238.00
199.50
162.50
39.00
136 Pacific ········-------...···--· 580
450.00 549.00 372.25
856.50 662.50
139 Crockett ····-··"····...······
65.00
78
140 · Curtis ····-·····-············· 112
20.00
43.00
232.50 214.65
248.75
141 Grafton ···········-········· 136
137.50 384.50 288.50
441.50 523.00
143 Franklin ···-················ 384
458.00 528.50 785.00
560.72 800.00
144 Oriental···-········:-····
32.00
74.00
50.90
55.50
62.00
145 Vitruvius ···-····-········ 126
401.00 262.00 207.00
305
605.10 337.00
146 Abell ............... . _____
198.50
238.50
5'7.69 197.50
147 Eel River ............······· 249
121.00 491.50 485.85
509.50 594.50
149 Lassen ·········-·-··········· 239
80.50
54.00
44.50
32.50
82.00
150 Molino ·····-··--·- ..······ 169
298.00
251.00
291
393.50
228.50
63.75
·······
156 Woodland •...........
161 Keystone ···-··-·..······ 30
54.00
25
31.00
41.00
30.00
164 Harmony ···--··--""·····
1,037.25
499
714.00
606.50
702.00
684.00
166 Excelsior ··-··-·········
100.50 184.00 295.50
384.50 376.00
167 Alameda ..............·····- 183
606
387.00
522.00 1,529.00
1,142.00
168 Redwood City -·········
641.50 547.50
···-·· 1,508.50 680.50
169 Mission ---·-···-····----·- 701
~87.50
244.00
21.00
210.50 180.00
173 Elk Grove ...••...•...······· 137
58.00
54
27.50
37.00
2'7.00
48.00
174 Drytown ····-··-··········
235.50 321.50
247.70
319.00
175 Antioch ···--·--········ 348
819.70 1,464.85 1,349.35 1,338.00 1,362.46
178 Phoenix ···-··-········
______ ,,____ . 671
114.00
122
94.50
69.50
23.00
179 Mendocino
86.50 101.00
78.00
42.00
105.50
180 Petaluma ·----------.. ------ 351
91.00
37.00
32.00
38.00
181 Russian River ...•...... 121
86
182 Arbuckle ···········-J--····
4.00
88
3.00
18.00
'7.00
183 Clear Lake .................
21.00
40
.....•......
18.00
Valley
Sierra
184
11.00
6.00
5.00
66
21.00
185 Claiborne ............... _______
17.00
39.61
14.25
56
186 Evening Star ···--······
147.00
137.00
99.00
8.00
5.00
187 Keith ·······-······-··-······ 178
734.50 1,505.50
907.00 570.00 760.00
188 Oakland ...... .................. .......... 950
22.00
21.00
12.00
6.00
92
20.00
190 Northern Light .........
481.00 1,138.82
353.00 335.91 477.25
191 Marin ·····-··--··-········· 549

No.

_

·--·-··-----

_

-

No.

GRAND LODGI! OP CALIFORNIA

371

Mem-

1950
1949
1953
1951
1952
bership
Name
404.50
459.00
'7'75.00
Santa Barbara ........... 34'7
706.00$ 731.50
86.00
27.00
90.00
89.50
96.00
Ferndale ·····-····-······· 104
74.25
80.50
419.50
445.50 724.50
Mountain View -······ 345
188.00
303.00 . 245.00
286.00 227.00
Buckeye ·---·---····· 141
250.50
95.20
101.20
80.00 125.50
San Simeon ·····--····· 92
688.50
'767.50 1,059.50 1,202.50 1,242.50
Wilmington ·····--······ 598
48.50
31.00
152.50
Hartley ···········-········· 237
54.00
12.00
49.50
167.50 394.00
Truckee ·····-··-···--······ 120
308.00
151.00
163.50
175.50
117.00
Silveyville ···-···· .. ······ 156
Pentalpha -'"·-··--······ 537 1,213.00 1,159.50 1,465.50 1.437.50 1,753.00
68.00
30.00
77.00
55.00
103.50
Confidence -·-····-··· 51
239.50
268.00
200.00
386.90
500.50
Salinas ·--··-·-········· 568
2.00
143.00
90.50
91.00
98.50
Olivet ···-·-··-·-········ 128
522.25
729.75
687.50
585.50 713.00
Stanislaus ·····--········· 641
832.50
338.00
892.50 930.00
859.00
Anaheim ·····-··-····-··· 443
269.00
301.00
Rio Vista .................... 157
162".00
354.00
312.00
602.80
904.00
King David's .....•...... 420
850.15 841.00
868.00
471.50
294.00
269.00
403.50
415.50
Friendship ····--········ 720
30.00
79.50
383.60 345.00
361.10
San Benito ·······--······ 161
302.50
189.00
So. San Francisco ..... 264
439.00 543.75
277.50
790.50
575.00
San Buenaventura ... 409
800.50 1,035.47 1,085.42
271.00
26.50
643.00 1,265.50
595.50
Oak Grove ···--········· 629
123.50
358.50
Doric
191.00
149.00
498
232.00
196.35
152.50
185.50
Montei;;::::::::::::::: 272
169.00
128.00
58.50
118.00
182.50
113.50
67.00
Mosaic ·········-······-······ 189
350.00
286.00
Speranza ltaliana ..... 311
303.50 238.25
367.50
9'75.85 1,068.30 1,095.75 1,193.00 1,250.00
Downey ···----··-······ 615
279.50
394.50
336.00
Inyo ............................. 163 314.00
349.00
84.00
467.50
Roseville ..................... 375
540.50
377.00
518.50
473.00
1,142.00
1,302.40 1,635.00 1,691.89
Bakersfield ···-··-······· 816
233.00
78.00
448.00 510.00
467.00
Brooklyn ··········--······ 589
742.50
699.00 1,121.10 1,487.00 1,680.50
San Mateo ···--··-······ 544
125.00
239.50
159.50
146.00
72.00
Athens ---·-······ 173
305.50
31.00
Solano
207.00 548.00
587
655.00
173.00
115.50
122.00
146.50
157.00
North Butte ···-····:::::: 213
14.00
Covelo ......................... 64
7.50
24.50
73.50
44.00
129.00 334.00
302.59
Janesville ···-··--········ 165
3.00
50.50
70.00
22.00
57.00
Calistoga ····--··--······ 119
144.00
128.00
78.50
37.00
Hope ..................•.......... 124
65.50
7.00
Surprise Valley-······· 77
65.00
232.50 396.00
155.00
Hills Ferry ---······ 156
438.00
29'7.50
500.00 463.50
420.50
Guadalupe - - - ······ 168
49.00
37.00
53.50
72.50
51.50
Colusa ···-···-··-········ 159 1,169.50
675.50 1,278.00 1,522.50 1,711.50
Santa Ana ··--············ 591
Magnolia ···-··--······· 415 1,068.00 1,112.00 1,113.50 1,120.56 1,601.00
248.41
940.50
13.00
411.85
359.68
Eucalyptus --···-······ 468
322.00
411.50
141.75
477.50
246.75
Alcatraz ···--··-········ 646
246.50
230.50
Laurel
230.00 213.50
302.00
240
551.00
561.00
348.50
Pomona··::==::::::: 394
603.50
497.00
498.00
101.50
487.53 731.52
421.00
Fremo ···--·-··-···.. ····· 712
157.85
87.00
192
Alturas
203.00 275.00
233.00
264.50
25.00
86.50
Adin ......::::::::::::::::::: 108
225.00
122.50
53.35
22.88
23.54
Landmark
114
34.50
60.00
Reading ...._::::::::::::: 220
65.50 454.50
94.00
155.50
180.50
111.20
242.00
Welcome ----······ 209
298.02 567.00
310.00
1'72.00
22.50
Lodi -·--·--······ 385
55.00
39.50
103.40
47.00
Penrhyn ···-··-·-······ 154 104.50
816.00
509.50
358.66
584.50
Evergreen ................... 658 447.50
580.50 1,002.50
449.00
460.50
King Solomon's -······ 488 601.50

192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261 Tuscan ···········-···-······

· 9o:5o

94

45.00

Membership

1953
1952
1950 1951
1949
388.50
282.50$
289.00
256.00
546.75
262 Lompoc ···-·······-········ 186
818.50 3,283.50
402.50 718.00
319.50
264 Hesperian ·-...,.··-········ 368
228.00 110.00
219.50 186.35
42.00
265 Orland ·············-·········· 160
3.00
2.00
2.00
5.00
61
266 North East ·······--······
116.00 207.00
30.00
.
103.00
5.00
87
---·--·--··
............
........
Galt
267
441.00 487.50
318.00
366.00 424.20
268 Durant··--····--·-·····.. ··--· 532
497.00 657.00
565.50
319.50
497.50
315
-----··
..
:
..
Branch
Olive
269
36.00
28.47
10.00
14.00
16.00
44
.........
Mountain
Snow
271
594.00 1,307.00
859.50
1076.00
665.00
I
553
.....................
Pasadena
272
1,122.50 1,277.18 1,500.00 1,503.00
273 Anchor ····-····-·-···--- 568 1,342.77
318.25 194.00
60.50
75.00
37.00
168
274 Arroyo ·········---··-·-----87.00
143.50
178.37
94.00
190
275 Oakdale --··-··---··-······
484.50
504.25
196.00
331.00
434.00
277 Selma ........................... 235
1,816.50 1,511.25
278 So. California ............ 512 1,310.50 1,400.00 1,372.00
453.00 491.00
485.50
488.50 470.50
2'.79 Hanford ····-··--·------ 224
139.50 309.50
237.00
120.00 132.00
280 Madera ............ .... ................ 270
141.50
200.00
77.00
99.50
281 Mount Shasta ............. 102
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
68
282 Callayomi ...................
939.00
672.97
312.50
374.50 488.50
283 South West ................. 460
138.43
93.18
67.00
60.00
64
.................
Miguel
San
285
217.50 232.73
241.50
149.00
274.80
258
..............
Robles
Paso
286
455.41 522.49
294.72
315.99 368.82
287 Winnedumah ............ 226
40.66
83.21
74.79
108.19
76.01
71
......................................
288 Maxwell
327.50
183.00
98.52
75.00
150.54
151
289 Elsinore .......................
999.00 1,303.50
766.25
922.75 731.00
290 East Gate --······----·---- 823
842.60 821.00
680.00
913.00
570.00
368
291 Santa Paula ..............
246.09 306.50
189.50
119.00
210.17
292 Los Gatos .................. 322
209.50 552.50
156.50
191.50
229.00
293 Orange Grove .......... 271
226.00
8.00
294 Traver ........................ 157
144.50
34.50
177.00 296.25
295 Mt. Jackson ............... 132 1,136.50
1,300.50 786.50 1,010.19 1,666.58
296 Silver Gate ................. 1287
146.50 292.50
86.50
321.50
217.50
297 Dunsmuir ................... 301
211.00 651.00
298.50
385.00
129.50
318
.......................
Liberty
299
407.00 915.00
358.00
278.00
314.50
428
.....................
Redlands
300
325.00 467.00
189.00
256.50
259.50
418
...................
.....................
301 Ontario
358.50
249.00
222.00
304.50
172.00
158
...............
Lucia
Santa
302
1,027.50 1,000.00
22.50
999.00
835.50
477
303 Porterville ····-··-------·
42.00 202.50
38.00
7.00
304 Reedley ....................... 166
573.20
440.50
249.00
141.00
245.50
274
305 Azusa ..........................
306.00
235.00
243.00
157.40
196.00
306 Ashlar ........................ 287
801.70
339.00
385.50
139.50
358.50
307 Santa Monica ·····------- 390
117.50
131.00
308 Monrovia ..................... ... -..... 295
532.00 535.50
475.50 553.50
230:00
309 Delano......- ................. 233
48.50
53.00
58.00
103.50
73.50
310 Sisson ···---·········-·· .. --· 107
302.00 346.50
115.00 196.00
121.00
312 Los Banos ····-······----.. 155
247.25 340.50 450.00 211.00
228.50
313 Tehachapi ··-·-·-····--· 214
178.50 161.44
79.00
46.50
148.50
229
....................
Temescal
314
538.10 570.00
509.05
394.50
243.00
284
.......................
......
315 Norwalk
241.50 253.00
165.00 276.50
221.50
316 Sanger ........................ 331
87.00
32.00
156
317 Fallbrook ............-·····--·
10.00
16.00
18.00
32.00
3.00
83
318 Emmanuel
182.46 211.00
112.50
114.75
163.25
319 Hollenbeck :::::::::~::::: 1031
856.50 1,005.00 1,338.00 1,502.50 1,460.50
320 South Gate ................ 621
126.00 212.00
81.00 108.00
161.00
150
321 Alisa} ..............- ..........
1,310.00
1,366.05
915.05
307.00
383.50
322 Alhambra ................... 647 1,187.91 1,450.00 730.00 1,001.00 881.50
323 Whittier ··--··-··-·------ 731
351.50 809.25
469.00 565.00
724.00
324 Corona --·-··--·-..·--· 474
311.00 248.00
176.50
100.34
325 Consuela -·-·-·-·----·· 270
831.75 839.50
832.50
543.00
699.50
355
326 Needles ···-··-~·--·-800.00
806.04
348.00
250.53
508.55
601
327 Long Beach ·--·----·

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

372
Name

_

--

_

-

-

No.
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
387
388
389
390
391

373

Mem1953
1952
1950 1951
1949
bership
Name
515.00
520.00
410.00$
210.00
209.00
Redondo
546
275.25 266.00
190.00 261.50
Vallee de F'ra~c;·::::::: 125 250.09
395.00 501.94
889.00 304.00
Kilauea ···-····--···· .. ··· 227
212.00
119.50 225.25
94.00
171.00
Pacific Grove ............. 262
San Pedro ···········------- 515 1,227.50 1,035.00 1,028.00 1,028.51 1,012.00
306.00 207.50
171.50
188.50
Alta ··--·-····--········-....... 95
913.50 674.00
198.50 281.50
213.00
Covina ···········-···•-....... 337
887.17 2,050.00 2,104.00 . 2,094.15 2,519.50
West Gate ................... 1067
454.25 831.00
572.00 403.75
335.50
Fruitvale ····-··---....... 876
221.63 265.67
147.00 173.60
140.00
Carquinez ................. 209
70.00
42.00
200.00
53.00
San Jacinto ····---...... 105
280.50 786.50
321.10 427 .00
Fullerton ····-·----...... 388
886.76 399.45
185.50 217.00
576~88
Oxnard ···-····--·------- 396
543.19 808.50 1,160.50 1,170.75
569.25
~:.rFIG:i3ndo ........... 561
724.00 799.20
147.50 258.00
311.50
g ..- .......... 535
40.00 100.00
74.00
43.00
28.00
Brentwood ··--··-...... 143
1,690.97 1,818.03
Palo Alto ···-···---···· 738 1,325.50 1,370.00 1,415.75
637.90 580.69
185.25 . 639.00 573.25
McKinley ·····-··--...... 499
652.65 852.45
842.83 440.02
543.87
~an B~mardino ·-...... 745
911.75 1,251.50 1,138.40 2,389.50
equo1a ··--·-····-·-------- 1085 1,175.00
475.00 840.65 1,204.00 1,207.00
434.00
Palestine ·············------- 602
907.50 1,093.00
832.25 885.00
822.25
S~nset ··--·-···-··-------- 378
95.00
64.00
68.50
46.50
80.00
Pmole ·········------....... 173
367.25 470.50
500.00 420.00
495.00
Presidio ...................... 515
464.00 1,440.00 1,309.50 1,007.51
Hollywood ·····-··· ...... 1244 695.10
614.00 971.00
386.50 537.00
414.00
Mill Valley ···--···--···· 448
486.00 478.00
181.25
Buena Park ······-··---- 237
714.55 1,012.00 792.50
474.00
Golden State -.......... 828 564.00
18.00
139.00
16.50
16.00
Loyalton .................... 99
330.50 327.50
582.50 702.50
462.50
San Francisco .......... 315
57.50
29.00
7.00
Fort Bragg ···--··---·--· 136
60.00
109.25 122.50
106.50
50.50
Charity ·····--·--·------- 150
23.00
383.50 218.50
118.31
70.50
Berkeley ,.----····-- 661
Willits ................_...... 163
108.50 1,482.00 1,609.00 2,183.15
609.50
Las Palmas ................ 1030
531.00 1,453.65 1,297.14 1,343.50 1,216.00
South Pasadena ....... 601
773.50 1,255.00 1,341.00 1,808.25
Unity ··---···-····------.. 619 1,202.00
427.00
617.00 1,800.50
586.75
510.00
Ocean Park ....._....... 515
172.50 301.00
625.00 900.00
87.50
Amity ........................ 450
le Progres de
l'Oceanie ................ 708 1,199.10 1,498.75 1,460.09 1,461.10 1,420.95
145.00 270.00
32.00
178.00
195.45
364
Gardena
206.00 353.00
467.00 493.50
192.00
West Los
421
139.25 203.50
295.50
173.00
Jewel ·····-···-··-·---· 195
348.50 327.50
409.00 363.00
Richmond ....._._ ...... 534 230.00
207.50 254.50
339.50 308.00
182.50
Francis Drake .......... 370
442.00 376.00
400.00 398.50
282.00
Artesia ····--·---. ·--····· 186
438 1,104.50 1,178.80 1,345.00 1,449.50 1,403.QO
Mizpah
591.50 505.00
654.00 520.50
459.00
241
Fillmore

Aiigei-;;::::::

---------------·-

Huntingtoii"··:a·;a.-ch'~:::

..............,....
Highland Park __ ......
Orosi
El Cen°i~~··::::::::::::::::
Dinuba
Coalinga··::::::::::::::::::
Parnassus ····-····-··....
Palos Verdes .............
Imperial ·--···-··-· .....
East Belt -·-·-·-· .. --·
O~eanside

324
401
655
147
440
304
398
767
698
123
90

50.00
368.36
320.00
280.00
133.00
120.25
695.00
490.50
132.50
71.00
25.00

53.00
51.00
106.00
21.00
343.12 486.36
371.00 616.90
196.00 448.55
425.50 539.00
284.00 340.00
415.50 349.00
540.50 544.25
500.00 880.00
40.00 354.00
244.00 397.00
812.00 1,025.00 1,000.00 1,100.00
512.75 1,091.25
456.80 470.30
294.00 335.50
219.90 150.50
84.00
318.50
23.00
81.50
134.50
93.00
127.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

374

Membership

1953
1952
1951
1950
1949
Name
No.
2,101.00$2,121.00
2,404.00
392 West Lake ····--··· ... 917 1,220.00 1,942.00
449.50 352.00
571.50 460.00
405.50
393 Balder ···-····-··--······ 502
1,464.50 1,331.50
1,305.50
674.50
459.00
617
394 University ···-···········
198.00 338.00 450.00 451.00
336.25
395 Turlock ·- -·- ···--······ 391
323.00 358.50 688.00
273.00
266.30
467
........................
Apollo
396
924.02 1,303.55 606.92
159.88
791.37
1032
......
397 Rising Light ........
166.00 510.00
171.00
154.00
140.00
399 Fraternity ···-············· 450
963.50 1,118.50 1,378.00
712.00
961.60
400 Burlin~ame ····-··--···· 686
138.00 200.00 465.01
114.00
125.00
401 Bay View ··- - ··--······ 635
541.50 518.50
222.11
342.50 263.50
402 Brawley ·····-··-········· 229
714.20
581.00 1,064.50 1,216.25 1,094.00
403 Yerba Buena ····- ······ 911
115.50 117.00
25.00
100.00
404 CXendora ·····-··-····-··· 150
850.15
793.50 943.00 1,472.00 1,418.00
405 Moneta ···- ···-··-······· 699
1,200.00 1,441.30 1,541.50
406 Burbank ···- ············· 728 1,217.00 1,030.00 971.00
656.50 444.50
412.00
337.75
559
.......................
Mesa
La
407
323.00 327.00
350.00
302.00
209.00
156
408 Sierra Madre ·····-·····
942.00 838.50
966.50
737.00
806.50
406
409 Honolulu ...................... -----211.00 200.00
203.00
106.00
85.00
344
410 Charter Rock .....•......
121.00 222.00
245.00
69.00
67.00
146
411 Perris - -- --······
248.00 205.50
194.00
167.00
105.00
156
412 Calexico ···-··-··. ······
739.50 760.00
414.00
209.00 392.50
414 Arlington ........................ ....... 349
806.00 816.00 1,181.00 1,014.50
415 Silver Trowel ...•...... 394 1,135.00
286.50 264.50
345.00
82.00 410.00
416 Lindsay --- --- ········· 218
607.50 374.00
298.50 594.50
417 Clovia -·--··- ·-······ 457
968.06 961.08
636.00
302.00 476.00
418 Elysian ·--··---······· 450
175.00 319.00
184.05
120.00 155.71
419 Upland ..·-·--··- ·· ······ 224
241.00 360.00
104.00
128.50 185.00
420 Kerman ...............•...... 124
685.50 640.00
1,111.50
418.50
421 Inglewood ···-········· 729
629.22 755.40
348.00
482.75 422.05
422 Eagle Rock - ········· 518
301.25 472.28
200.25
200.80
355
222.50
423 York -·-·--·--···-·•······
473.50 456.50
486.50
322.00 519.00
424 Exeter ···--····-···- ······ 221
210.00
15.50
210.00
224.50
206.50
143
425 Holtville ---·-··-·······
533.50 1,051.50
142.55
353.50
564.50
497
426 Midway .......................
113.50
80.50
116.50
138.50 140.00
427 Chino Valley -··-······ 140
152.00 340.00
150.00
190.00
152.00
168
428 San Dimas -·-···········
122.50 176.00
35.00
44.00
17.00
429 Pittsburg ·····-···-······· 314
122.00 159.50
98.10
121.00
99
430 McCloud ···----·--····
314.00 364.50
349.25
300.00 306.20
431 Alpha ··--- -·- --······ 506
27.50
85.00
25.00
21.00
64
433 Hammonton - - ··-······
180.00
9.00
83.00
4a~oo
25.00
434 Maricopa ·--··--······ 183
262.35 278.50
127.00
277.75
90.00
435 Fairmount ·····-·-······ 474
133.00 160.46
77.00
63.00
73.00
436 Claremont ····-···--······ 115
600.00 685.50
520.50
306.75
500.50
319
Lancaster
437
. .... . . . .
128.00 115.00
126.00
117.00 120.00
438 Acacia - - - - ··-······ 55
58.00 107.00
48.00
103.00
54.50
186
439 Tyrian ··········-····-......
103.50 159.50
148.00
182.00
131.00
348
440 Standard ···-··--·······
575.25 842.50
415.00
371.39 590.00
407
441 Coronado
1,657.00
1,319.40
678.00
907.25
866.2E
1270
442 Blackmer
146.70 539.50
310.00
447.08
379.50
267
443 Schofield - - - -······
308.50 331.00
272.00
469.50
444 Carpinteria ···-··-·"' """ 122
537.00 731.50
735.50
870.28 657.00
445 Wilshire ···--··-·······" 563
26.00
24.00
117.50
8.00
38.00
446 La Puente ··- ·----······ 167
573.60 392.50
209.50 396.50
290.16
447 Torrance ····- ··- ------·· 428
248.00 263.50 . 373.00 446.00
230.00
448 Mount Diablo ····-······ 338
276.50 422.00
373.50 301.32
315.00
449 Park ·····-····-·········--···· 490
1,684.35 1,748.00
771.50
444.50
464.75
852
450 Van Nuys ···-----······
723.00 850.80
785.65
624.00
606.22
451 Montebello ................ 602
1,000.00 1,060.00
1,020.00
930.06
514
952.77
452 San Pasqual ----······
426.00 335.90 563.50 595.25
421.00
453 Bethlehem - ········· 284
210.50 821.00
94.50
316.50
410
454 Crocker ···---·-······

·---

=:::::::::::

No.

375

Mem1950 1951
1953
1952
1949
bership
Name
366.50
250.50 565.50
218.00$ 881.25
Golden West .....•...... 586
377.00
591.00 661.50 1,073.50 1,061.18
Ramona ....................... 504
458.50 1,628.50 1,423.00 1,451.50 1,674.25
Henry S. Orme ......... 672
79.50
63.00
41.00
68.50
102.00
Riverbank ................... 148
18.00 172.50
186.50 132.00
42.00
Mount Oso ................ 310
887.00 902.70
537.50 518.50 908.50
Argonaut ..................... 430
Paul Revere ............... 613 1,123.00 1,174.00 1,195.00 1,222.52 1,253.00
25.75 228.50
107.00 140.00
131.00
Morgan Hill ···- ··-······ 163
460.00 716.00
709.25 566.25
Alta Vista ................... 268
468.50
403.50 547.00
219.00 247.50
Center .................. ...... 543
158.00
453.25 611.00
528.00 440.00
493.00
Libertas ...- .................. 632
728.50 720.00
835.00 643.00
658.50
Culver City ............... 358
659.50 272.75
383.00 602.50
182.00
Rockridge ...........•...... 495
347.00 325.32
70.00
180.00
Yorba Linda ............... 158
Lincoln ···--·-----........... 349 1,021.50 1,174.80 1,178.50 1,189.50 1,190.00
744.50 767.50
624.00 592.00
683.00
Delta ........................... 492
501.00 521.00
374.00 441.28
387.00
Maui ............................. 239
118.00
74.00
118.00 130.00
118.00
Blythe ......................... 142
441.00
386.50 600.00
Victory ·····-··--··········· 292
258.50
80.00
100.00
187.00
America ··-·------........... 491
297.00
176.00 308.00 236.00 444.00
Coachella ................ ........ . .... 205
191.50
70.00
132.00
168.00
75.00
155
76.00
Temblor
278.00 660.50
83.50 218.15
Thousand "C5ak.S·~:::::::: 509
189.00
Golden Rule ....._........ 629
255.00
339.50 450.75 1,174.15 577.05
83.00 210.00
97.80
46.00
122.10
Fellowship --·---·-······ 333
521.50 1,439.00
Mt. Davidson ............ 406
694.75
384.50 453.50
884.50 1,132.00
512.00
Clarence F. Smith.... 370
533.00 751.00
396.00 925.56
662
Bell
737.00
449.00 591.81

455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484 Albert.Pik~-·::::::::::::: :
485 Chowchilla ................
486 Caledonia ..................
487 Vallejo ........................
488 Patterson ··r·- ···--···
489 East Bay ····-·····--······
490 Corcoran ·····-·············
491 Woodstock ·····-·········
492 Garvanza
493 Atascadero··:::::::::::::::
494 Acom ·······- ··-·······-···
495 · Lebanon ..... ...... ......................
497 Fremont ................... . ...................
498 Stockton
499 Capital
500 Roosevelt ·····- ·-·······
501 Westwood ·····-···--······
502 Harbor ........................
503 Point
seaside---······-·····..·····
504
505 Silver Coi~f::::::::::::
506 Mount Olive ·····- · ......
507 El Segundo .........•......
508 Joppa··············-·········
509 Benjamin Franklin..
510 Cupertino ·····-····-----··
511 Sunn:yVale ................
512 Palms --···-····-···-·..·····
513 Cahuenga ..................
514 Argonne ···- ········-······
515 Vermont Square .......
516 Taft --·----- --··--······

-

-

cii;;--::::::::::::::

259
169
510
393
122
393
126
418
315
126
621
399
526
191
530
215
278
575
290
502
476
998
361
85
364
178
323
451
576
386
537
320

110.00
31.00
791.95
255.75
42.50
190.50
124.50
349.00
373.75
285.50
190.00
400.86
268.50
350.00
120.50
121.00
197.00
121.00
706.10
700.00
1,921.80
229.00
69.00
4.95
87.50
242.50
360.75
247.50
112.00
693.05
824.50

272.75 597.00
74.00 250.00
411.50 181.50
28.00 240.50
757.00 1,038.62
616.50 811.35
344.00 341.00
118.25 222.30
48.50
15.00
70.50
17.00
147.50 270.50
61.00 176.50
147.50
54.50
112.50 146.00
70.00
304.75
62.50
292.50 324.50
333.50
215.50
324.17 378.61
217.58 284.13
402.00 431.50
103.00 203.50
178.00 147.50 942.50 836.04
4.00 1,068.64
389.98 473.01
277.50 175.50
255.50
202.78
433.00 481.25
501.00
405.00
153.50 192.00
123.50 151.50
608.00 579.00
404.00 604.00
425.00 352.00
187.00 367.68
165.50 123.00
88.00 125.00
779.54 1,326.42
720.50 754.50
545.00 954.55
518.50 475.00
1,425.29 l ,929.70 2,036.00 2,750.50
311.50 384.50
69.00 401.55
49.00
102.00
20.00
243.25 322.25
518.25 484.30
88.00 160.00
48.00
28.00
219.12 354.00
214.50 171.00
900.00 910.00
246.50 668.00
374.00 766.25
219.00
201.50
153.50 241.00
194.00
259.00
783.51 1,058.00 1,272.60 1,120.83
456.00 640.00
621.50 619.60

Mem-

Mem-

bership

1949

517 Mount Vernon .......... 222
518 La Jolla···--··-..:·--······ 314
519 Euclid ···········-··-······· 398
520 Ionic ·····················-······ 900
521 Piedmont ·····-····-······ 275
522 Sunrise ··············-······ 346
523 Bellflower ................. 441
524 Catalina Island ......... 144
525 George Washington... 481
526 Bay City ·············-······ 387
527 Covenant ···-····-······· 328
528 Beverly Hills ······-····· 541
529 Loyalty ·········-··········· 499
530 Sun Garden ·····--······ 547
531 Alexandria ·········-······ 161
532 Smyrna ···-················· 137
533 Azure ·················-······ 255
534 Forest Hill ................ 196
535 Alexander Hamilton 288
536 Seal Rock ·····-··--······ 196
537 Utopia ··-···················· 708
538 Ascot ·············-··········· 357
539 Belvedere ·····-············ 214
540 Queen Beach ·····-······ 190
541 H. M. Stephens......... 347
542 Lankershim .......•...... 815
543 Signal ··············--······ 518
544 Glendale ·····-··-········ 758
545 Jonathan ·····-··-········· 204
546 San Gabriel ............... 476
547 Arcadia ·········-···-······ 442
548 Triangle .............•...... 275
549 Justice ···············-······· 381
550 Seaport ·····-··-··········· 234
551 Lakeshore ···-·····--······ 272
552 Semper Virens .......... 288
554 Educator .............•...... 391
555 White Pine .........•...... 102
556 Fairfax ···-······-····-··· 401
557 Hermosa ········-·········· 340
558 Point Firmin ···-······· 373
559 Craftsmen ----·-········· 438
560 Plymouth ···-··--··-··· 391
561 E. San Diego..·-·-······ 753
562 Pyramid ···--·--·-······ 306
563 South Park ···-········ 422
564 Foothill ·······---······· 838
565 West Adams .......•...... 326
566 James A. Garfield-·-· 237
567 Searchlight .........•...... 484
568 Park Blvd. ···········-··· 424
569 Chateau Thierry ....... 359
570 Military Service ....... 344
571 Francis K. Shattuck 258
572 James Madison ........ 367
573 Hillcrest ···········-······· 80
574 S. W. Hackett............ 581
575 Fort Crook·····-··-······ 167
576 El Cajon Valley._...... 311
577 Sunnyside -·--········· 463

211.50
119.50
640.71

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

376
Name

1950

1951

1952

1953

274.25 $ 352.75
211.00 202.00
97.00 153.00
81.00 100.50
791.38 801.04
657.00 825.13
2,345.25 1,694.18 1,777.50 1,807.00
121.50 140.00
157.50 109.25
161.5'0
325.50 217.50
309.65 491.58
437.50
189.00 153.00
317 .00 127 .00
412.24
301.00 304.75
299.25 303. 75
316.00
420.50 1,055.00
208.00 654.50
562.00
173.50 180.50
194.00 343.00
679.00
742.58 683.50
736.50
575.42 777.00 1,059.00 1,113.50
306.00
892.50 1,500.00 1,146.00 1,055.00
872.00
570.50 622.50
231.08
89.00
320.53 326.00
189.00 231.46
163.00
9.00
1.00
26.00
16.00
16.00
161.00 142.50 104.00 297.00
671.00
190.50 198.50
94.50
110.50
143.50
540.00 587.50
460.00 820.27
450.00
176.00 297.00
185.00 184.50
111.50
239.00 1,002.17 1,438.47 1,457.15 1,541.00
389.75 475.00
424.00 328.00
348.00
80.00 126.00
163.00 104.00
130.00
224.00 384.00
220.50 112.00
139.00
117.00 146.50
91.00 107.50
83.50
650.40 850.00
377.50 270.00
497.25
645.00 807.50 1,017.80 1,046.25
476.00
353.50 892.00
617.00 543.50
420.50
384.00 408.80 414.31 412.75
373.50
900.00 1,052.00
167.00 522.00
142.00
347.50 1,283.00
397.50 434.50
291.00
237.00 559.31
184.00 256.00
202.00
520.99 535.76
361.50 436.50
522.00
227.50 478.00
180.00 195.00
205.00
71.00 141.50
92.00
62.00
109.50
380.00 434.50
441.50
323.00
32.25 488.50
216.70 180.95
199.00
86.50
84.00
156.50
76.00
90.00 312.50
225.50 177.00
137.50
472.26
62.00 122.00
141.00
899.00 824.00
639.00 693.75
562.50
135.00 351.00
138.00
58.60 223.00
176.00 261.62
139.00
165.00 178.00
588.00 629.71
364.43 ·418.50
385.50
44.50 165.50 607.50 442.50
208.50
671.50 989.00
478.00 593.05
576.25
384.50 450.56
117.50 126.50
196.50
236.00 210.00
248.50
218.50
700.00 700.00
526.15 873.00
1,158.08
380.50 486.00
202.00 485.00
257.00
747.75 939.25
643.00
268.00
282.50
291.00 319.00
158.00
176.50
217.50
119.00 220.50
64.50 121.00
98.50
196.00 352.50
116.00
230.50
560.00 333.00
269.00 480.00
310.50
25.00
30.00
10.00
10.00
311.00 625.75
270.25 372.00
338.50 339.75
257.00 326.32
382.50
608.00 630.00
519.00 540.00
384.50
966.00 1,155.25
821.00 1,015.00
1,003.00

377

1953
1952
1951
1950
1949
bership
Name
343.25 847.00 1,052.00 $1,102.00
Progressive ···-·------- 528 506.00
592.25 153.00
670.50 1,144.50
Warren G. Harding... 572
450.50
134.00 185.00
90.00 226.55
Santa Maria ···-····----- 113
252.00
643.56 778.00
643.00 800.00
Security ·····-·······-·---· 402
107.00 144.00
99.00 115.00
132.00
Rialto .......................... 170
839.00 604.50
630.50 534.00
Wasco ···········-·····------ 305
198.00 204.00
185.50 330.00
248.16
Harding ···········-······--· 258
757.00 ···-······· 1,463.00 762.00 903.00
Manchester ·········-·-··-· 378
196.50 147.50
283.50 109.50
Garden Grove .......... 241
392.88
152.50 133.00 454.50 386.00
Valley Forge .....•...... 367
122.00
325.00 573.00
83.00 275.00
150.90
El Sereno ···-········----- 439
444.50 381.50
494.95
337.00 423.10
Kauai -······-··-·····-.. ······ 126
145.00
109.00 158.00 278.00 561.50
Compass ..................... 279
173.50
324.50 161.50
Escalon ···········-········· 140
245.00 534.00
153.50 191.75
154.00
Tujunga ··--··-····-·-·· 266
449.00 541.50
850.00 897.20
616.25
All States ···-············· 547
388.00 389.00
551.10 750.50
352.75
Service ·····-·········----·· 763
651.00 833.00
575.15 570.00
Alexander G. Bell.... 274 · 671.80
Guardian ············-----· 880 1,322.90 1,385.50 1, 732.00 1,779.50 1,767.25
Pearl Harbor .....•...... 576 1,313.00 1,179.00 1,326.25 1,299.06 1,165.00
739.50 861.50
814.00 756.00
795.00
Carmelita ···-············· 336
799.50 862.90
716.00 755.50
694.66
Lynwood ·······-··-···-··· 422
215.50
141.50 111.50
16.00
Grizzly ···········-········· 148
262.50 331.00
521.70 185.06
124.46
Melrose ···········-······-·· 247
581.10 592.53 .
555.61 572.66
489.76
Dimond ···········-········· 292
680.00 704.00
531.00 668.00
656.00
Jubilee ···········-····----- 350
451.50 555.00
344.25
358.00 427.00
Glassell Park ............. 408
93.00 134.00
129.00
74.50 154.00
Sojourner .................. 224
720.50 1,010.00
185.00 671.00
246.00
Granada ···-··-··········· 774
715.50 891.50
602.50 602.50
502. 75
Provident ···-·--···--·· 439
86.00 245.00
58.00 108.50
61.00
Elmhurst .................... 254
51.00 294.00
56.00 137.50
118.00
Canoga ·············-·--···· 254
87.00 230.00 483.00 863.00
196.00
Temple City ····-······· 426
629.62 866.03
515.25 540.37
735.00
Three Pillars ···-·------ 423
820.00 825.00
794.50 866.50
746.50
Larchmont .........•...... 407
175.00 277.34 359.68
105.50
Hemet ···········-·····-·--·· 166
412.50 331.50
238.00
148.00
R. E. Dolley......·-······· 217
129.00 114.00
49.00
47.00
75.00
Big Bear ·····-····--··---· 163
244.50 173.00 275.00 299.00
215.00
Southland ...........•...... 318
273.45 276.24
104.00 222.00
161.00
Neptune ·······-··-······· 287
446.50 673.50
361.00 360.00
517.87
Point Loma ···-----···· 588
221.00 471.00
59.00 243.00
330.00
The Gardens ···--······ 450
848.00 774.00
320.00 552.00
307.00
Atwater .................... 374
Menorah ···-····----····· 844 3,100.00 3,031.10 2,614.00 2,439.75 2,629.50
124.00 234.50
32.00 134.50
187.00
Fortitude ·····-····-······ 207
632.50 827.30
136.25 130.00
191.81
Angeles Mesa ............ 672
272.60 659.00
445.00 460.00
374.50
Chula Vista ···-········· 472
576.50 536.50
494.00 512.00
207.50
Lamanda Park .•...... 265
563.50 662.25
530.00 686.25
612.50
l'r1:1th. ·························· 258
735.00 583.00
576.00 705.50
558.00
Fa1rv1ew -·-················ 283
118.00 137.00
261.00 165.00
Ingleside .................... 194
72.00 137.00
147.50
12.00
17.00
Benevolence ···-······--· 277
636.50
756.75 467.00 1,234.00 1,335.00
Normal Heights .•...... 655
992.00 1,206.50 1,250.00 1,275.00
969.50
Poinsettia ·······-·---····· 637
96.50 276.50
149.50 100.00
165.27
Victorville ·······-······· 200
466.00 802.50
277.00 351.00
313.00
Riverside .................. 389
597.50 619.93
439.75 605.00
535.50
John Marshall.......... 287
792.00 812.50
783.00 798.00
824.00
Palisades ···-··-····---·· 396
106.50 109.00
58.50
37.75
104.50
Indian Rock ····-······· 213
655.50 1,123.00
270.00 1,079.00
319.50
63Q Composite -·-··-······· 417

No.
578
579
580
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638

378

Mem 1953
1952
1950 1951
1949
hip
bers
e
Nam
No.
179.00
0$
132.5
0
188.0
0
243.0
108.00
122
502.75 512.00
640 Veri tas ···········-··-······ 243
0 502.00
487.0
0
471.5
...
ay....
930.00
856.75
641 Jam es A. Fosh
702.50 826.50
661.00
325.50 417.50
642 La Cum bre -·····-······ 258
224.00 233.50
0
318.0
259.25 251.50
643 Alta Lom a ··-·-· ······· 385
76.00 257.00
619.25
70.00
368.00
0
644 Lom ita ···-·· -·--- ······ 264
642.5
0
131.0
0
602.0
297.00 316.00
645 A. F. E. Irwi n.-........ 276
385.50
0
275.0
142
600.00 482.61
646 Metr opol itan ···--······. 426
309.35 470.00
227.00
604.41 345.00 .
647 Haw thor ne ................
276.78 305.10
6
389.9
441.40 334.35
648 Dam ascu s ···--··--······ 593
0
5
310.0
224.7
0
372.0
535.00 570.45
1
649 Flor ence ···-··-··-········ 488
5
533.8
531.3
7
475.7
270.00 250.25
5
0
650 La Bre~ ···········-········ 261
181.7
144.0
70.00
······ 247
0 608.50
470.5
0
0
651 Menlo Park ···-····
353.0
269.5
0
138.0
. 433
6 159.00
167.6
652 Cres cent a Valley......
75.50
19.00
16.00
0 504.50
336.0
0
0
653 Font ana ···-··--J--···· 291
254.0
115.0
0
210.5
248.75 270.00
654 Jord an ·······-··---······ 381
89.00 277.50
0
167.0
107.00 163.00
655 Mon te Vist a ·---- ······ 608
55.00
30.50
41.00
189
493.00 698.77
656 Citro ! ······ --·-· --···· ·· 641
.00 907.50
9
1,037
708.5
104.50 240.00
657 John D. Spre ckels --··
263.00
101.00
5 400.11
658 Livi ngst on ·······-········ 179
389.7
0
346.5
0
143.0
659 La Hab ra ................... 193
245.00 304.00
0
232.5
7
0
171.6
151.0
660 Bald win Park ........... 189
211.50 277.50
144.00
162.50 134.50
661 Malt a ........................... 208 2,872.50 1,208.00 904.00
890.00 933.00
662 Hen ey Kno x ···-········ 447
155.50 551.50
0
146.5
0
82.50
105.5
298.80 285.50
663 Ojai ···········-········,······ 123
0
167.0
0
0
154.5
135.0
116
0 289.00
397.5
665 Kaw eah ···-··-··-······· 346
5.00
0
0
225.0
142.0
5 582.50
666 Rese da ...................... 516
561.2
0
0
666.5
375.5
291.50
0 382.14
216.0
667 Mer idian ....................
3
182.15 392.9
249.50
0 203.50
668 San Gorg onio ·-········ 223
179.0
0
158.00 187.0
140.50
257
669 John P. Jarm an... .....
210.00 354.00
34.00
29.00
0
101.0
63.00
670 Gree nlea f ···········-·····: 577
60.00
50.00
30.00
25.00
·· 88 400.0
0 399.46
671 San Clem ente -·J····...
396.0
0
0
382.0
0
356.0
193
672 Lagu na Beac h ...•...
508.25 403.00
374.00 441.25
408.50
673 Far Wes t ···-··-·········· 343
201.00 257.00
0
0
226.0
0
134.0
629.0
···· 358
674 Los Cerr itos ···-····.....
536.50 530.50
2
0
564.8
617.5
. 459 ·
675 Modesto ................
196.00 356.00
0
5
149.0
145.7
0
161.0
···· 311
0 766.00
676 Will ow Glen ·-·--··.....
708.5
0
0
590.2
525.5
0
557.0
324
0 950.00
677 Libe ral Arts ........
900.5
5
882.4
757.01
815.25
0 292.50
678 Alta dena ·····-··-········ 460
336.5
0
121.0
0
200.0
24.10
0 388.50
679 Canb y Cross ···-········ 143
280.5
0
0
259.5
324.5
248.50
262.00
0
680 Carm el ···-··-·············· 188
235.0
0
66.00
208.00 237.0
636.09
5
681 Dos Palo s ·······-·········· 124
423.1
1
0
376.5
360.50 385.5
682 Bars tow ···--- -····· ···· 299
115.50 143.50
0
46.25
169.0
72.50
88
...
ire....
683 Redw ood Emp
260.75 277.00
254.00
260.00 262.00
684 Tron a ......................... 131
737.50 . 836.00
0
454.50
492.0
5
447.7
685 San Mari no ·······-······ 316
412.00 450.00
152.50
0 252.00
174.0
686 Alba ny ·······-··-·-······ 203
168.00 305.00
0
166.5
0
310.0
0
275.0
254
687 Vist a ..........................
139.00 216.00
118.25
0
65.50
153.0
688 Oild ale ·····--··---······ 182
499.50 147.50
0
439.5
45.00
56.00
69
689 Paho na .......................
707.00 593.00
0
583.5
0
375.5
0
286.0
690 San Carl os ·······-········ 265
140.50 617.10
0
186.5
0
0
406.0
608.0
691 Indi an Wells Vall ey 298
296.50 210.50
0
269.0
5
169.2
692 Trav elers ·······-·········· 171
405.00 414.00
9
222.6
0
68.00
296.5
414.50
693 Palm Spri ngs ...•...... 154
50
816.
0
0
177.0
130.0
270.00
694 San Anto nio ·······-······ · 160
0
395.0
5
318.7
0
125.0
177.00
695 Meu del ...............•...... 131
393.50 466.92
203.50
0
6
185.0
286.2
230
.
........
........
s
696 Cros sroad
297.00 223.00
215.00
103.00
91
697 St. Elmo ···-·· ---·· ····
400.20 2,199.50
0
332.5
0
0
577.0
210.0
88
.......
hens
698 Wm. D. Step
122.50 467.00
0
129.0
0
0
141.0
232.0
218
....
699 Bixb y Kno lls ........
282.15 434.00
244.50
0
147.5
0
!09.5
700 Pond eros a ··-··- ·-·-·· · 201

379

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mem . bers hip
Nam e
74
701 Sant a Ynez Valley....
·········· 95
702 Rose mead ···-···.....•..
.... 217
703 Wes tche ster
101
········
········
···-···
da
Orin
704
705 El Cerr ito ...........•.... .. 107
149
al
706 Hun ters Poin t Nav
707 Lake Taho e .............. · 47
· 708 Seaf aring .................. 175
709 Lore nzo ...............•...... 143
710 Anac opa ..........•..•...... 103
85
711 Rim of the World......
············ 79
712 Los Alto s ·······713 Cast ro Vall ey ............ 107
89
714 Blue Lake s................
103
715 Mag nolia Park ···-·· ···· 109
716 Belm ont Shore............
71
717 Way farer ·······-·······-···
U.D. San Lore nzo Vall ey.. 49
62
..
........
U.D. Este ro ................
U.D. Min eral King ............. 61
U.D. Hom e........................... 90
54
U.D. Geor ge E. Tutt .......... 55
U.D. Acal anes .....................
U.D. San Ram on Valley.... 52
U.D. Sain t John 's............... 52
U.D. Yuc aipa ...............•...... 50
36
U.D. Verd ugo Hills ............ 49
U.D. Lake woo d.................. 70
No. Calif. Rese arch ............
So. Calif. Rese arch ......•....~
No.

1949
7U9
69.00

1951
1950
86.00 110.61
112.00 142.15
189.38 250.00
99.00
105.00
71.00 164.50
29.50
25.00
77.50 312.05
89.00
96.35
150.47
114.50
105.00
145.00

1952
149.5 0$
157.00
354.29
51.50
84.50
241.50
14.00
248.50
311.14
229.00
161.00
170.50
143.00
383.50

1953
198.00
199.45
441.20
86.00
154.50
187.50
377.00
326.00
383.63
231.00
206.50
135.00
203.00
359.25
207.00
315.00
113.00
150.50
204.50
284.49
126.75
25.00
108.25
94.50
98.50
118.00

Tota l Rece ived ..............$331,112.49

380

381

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DECOTO RESIDENTS

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Ketcheson, Horace ..... .Mar. 17, '50 Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington ..........83
Knight, John J. ······----.May 19, '53 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ................88
Lawrence, Edward S ...Mar. 22, '47 Inglewood ..........421 Ingelwood ............61
Lawson, Andrew N .... .Dec. 30, '48 Coronado ............441 Coronado .............. 78
Lobban, William ............Aug. 8, '52 Park ....................449 San Francisco ....83
Martin, William S .......Mar. 20, '51 Western 'Star .... 2 Shasta .................... 75
Matlock, William L .....July 12, '51 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................•.83
Matthews, Elbert C.....July 10, '35 La Mesa ..............407 La Mesa ................85
May, Fred ......................Aug. 15, '51 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..............89
Mearns, John C.............Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco .... 79
Mellinger, Walter E .......May 5, '51 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach ..86
Menke, William ............Nov. 26, '49 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ....80
Moignard, Philip R. ......July 13, '53 Carquinez ..........337 Crockett .................84
Moore, Andrew A. ........Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............300 Redlands .............. 78
Murray, James B ........ .Apr. 17, '53 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............73
Nichols, Charles G .... .Apr. 10, '52 Sunnyvale ..........511 Sunnyvale ............87
Nixon, Robert D .......... .Apr. 25, '47 Bell ......................483 Bell ···············-···--.92
Nordstrom, David P .....Nov. 3, '52 Doric ....................216 San Francisco .... 76
Oakley, Charles W .......Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ..............129 Wheatland ............77
Palmer, James ..............Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................91
Peale, Charles W ........ .Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ........451 Montebello ............ 71
Persson, Carl A. ............Apr. 17, '53 Alta Loma ..........643 Long Beach ........66
Peters, Thomas C......... Sept. 11, '50 Center ..................465 Fresno ..................78
Place, John N .............. .Dec. 29, '52 Sierra Valley .... 184 Sierraville ............87
Plato, John ···················-·-.Feb. 5, '48 Long Beach ......327 Long Beach ........89
Porter, Wm. G ...............Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ........ 79
Quilty, Frank E .............Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ..........210 ·San Jose ..............99
Richardson, Will T •......July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ...........- ..60
Re~an, Edwin D ........ .Mar. 19, '52 Dunsmuir .......... 297. Dunsmuir ............77
Ri dle, Starr D. ···-······.Dec. 26, '50 Excelsior --·······--166 San Francisco ....63
Rogers, Albert E .........Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ................418 Los Angeles ........75
Russell, Frederick C...Dec. 26, '49 Pajaro ..................110 Watsonville ..........82
Salisbury, John T .........Aug. 4, '51 Upland ................419 Upland ·······-········-77
Sandbo, Albert ................Dec. 5, '52 Golden Rule ..... .479 San Jose ................83
Shirreff, Charles L .....June 26, '53 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno .................. 78
Spaulding, Horace R. ..Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco .... 88
Stowell, George E .......Feb. 16, '52 Willits ..................365 Willits ········-··········89
Stewart, James 0 .........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........82
Stillwell, Arthur M.......Aug. 5, '50 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........86
Stubbs, Will L ............ .Mar. 21, '51 Sojourner ............607 Monrovia ········-····82
Sutherland, George W. July 13, '53 Clovis ..................417 Clovis ..................•. 73
Templeman, Henry ..... .Dec. 29, '38 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ....92
Thompson, Charles J ...Nov. 17, '49 Mission .......- .......169 San Francisco ....93
Tilsner, Henry E. ···-----.Mar. 2, '46 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ....82
Tingley, Charles H ........ .Dec. 6, '50 Jubilee ................604 Santa Ana ............75
Tuttle, Joseph K .........Mar. 17, '46 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ·············-··-81
Vanderwerker, L .........Apr. 13, '47 Alcatraz ·-·-···-----244 Oakland ................82
Vorsanger, Edward ....June 10, '37 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ..............85
Wallace, James S ........ .Apr. 18, '51 Excelsior ............166 San Francsco ....86
Wallis, Abraham ..........Nov. 2, '47 Midway ..............426 Taft ........................69
Watkins, Wilford ........Apr. 11, '47 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park ....86
Wells, Williams S .........Aug. 3, '51 Oriental ...........•..144 San Francisco ....83
Williams, Chas. F .......Aug. 24, '46 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................ 71
Willis, Walter H ...........Dec. 7, '45 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................76
Young, Frank E .............Oct. 5, '51 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........79

July 31, 1953
MEN-Average Age 79.49
Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Albers, George R .........Feb. 17, '45 California .......... 1 San Francisco ....85
Anderson, Alfred H .....Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ....80
Baer, Reubin E ...........June 25, '42 Sotoyome ..........123 Healdsburg ..........86
Baril, Leon J .................Feb. 22, '52 Jas. A. Foshay ..641 Los Angeles ........61
Bartlett, Louis A. ........Apr. 10, '53 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ----···-·····90
Bassett, Henry N ...........Jan. 6, '50 Santa Paula ......291 Santa Paula ........78
Batt, Saul C...................June 2, '52 Starr King ........344 San Francisco ....76
Baumgardner, Will L ...Jan. 12, '52 Pajaro ···-············110 Watsonville ..........88
Beckman, Carl A. ............May 3, '51 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........70
Bennett, Charles H .....July 29, '53 Lamanda Park ..627 Pasadena ..............76
Boggs, Fred'k H .......... .Aug. 10, '47 Bethlehem ........ ..453 San Francisco ....78
Buffington, Will C.......June 22, '53 Fort Crook ........575 Fall River Mills 63
Burke, Harold E .........July 26, '49 York ................... .423 Los Angeles ........60
Cassady, Earl J ...............Feb. 3, '36 Geo. Washingt'n 525 San Francisco ....82
Childs, Clarence E .........Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............93
Cicero, Carmel ..............Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................72
Clark, George F ......... Sept. 15, '52 Blackmer ............442 San Diego ............74
Collins, Wm. W ...........Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ....87
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ..................396 Alameda .............. 77
Conway, Winn P ...........Oct. 21, '45 Roseville ............222 Roseville ..............78
Conwan, Will E.............July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........84
Date, Harrington ..........Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ................601 Portola ................ 85
Davis, John 0 ...............May 28, '53 San Benito ....... .211 Hollister ................81
Dixon, Edgar A. ............Nov. 19, '48 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ............ 79
Dowdall, Fred'k W ........ .Aug. 3, '43 Solano ...... :.........229 Vallejo ..................73
Elder, James R. ........... .Dec. 13, '50 Abell ....................146 Ukiah ··············-----79
Elworthy, Fred W ...........Jan. 2, '52 Paso Robles ........286 Paso Robles ..........80
Felton, Wilson K ...........July 1, '48 Calexico ..............412 Calexico ................86
Foss, Alexander ............Oct. 21, '52 Standard ............440 Oakland ................87
Fraser, John E ............. Sept. 28, '51 North Butte ........230 Gridley ----··········-··69
Frare, Giacomo ..............Apr. 1, '51 Sp'r'nza Itali'na 219 San Francisco ......73
Frost, Frank M...........June 25, '52 Temple City ......612 Temple City ........82
Frost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ........63
Gelston, Hollister ........Sept. 12, '49 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......81
Goldsworthy, W. W .....Sept. 3, '52 Yosemite ............ 99 Merced ..................70
Greaves, Walter ............Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ................84
Gregory, George W .....Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles ........87
Halpin, Robert L. ........Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel ... .415 Los Angeles ........80
Hannum, Alexander ....Nov. 28, '52 Harding ..............584 Los Angeli;:; ........83
Hansell, Calvin E .........Nov. 18, '50 Mission ................169 San FranclSCO ....82
Harcourt, James ......... .Nov. 12, '51 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ....82
Harth, Arthur P ...........Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay ..............416 Lindsay ................ 79
Hendricks, Alfred ........Nov. 17, '50 Stanslaus ............206 Modesto ................72
Hepburn, Robert ............Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica ......64
Hiltner, Harry B .........Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ....86
Holman, Harry T .........July 15, '48 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco ....76
Howard, James W .........Feb. 21, 'lil Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........79
Huling, Wallace S .......Dec. 27, '52 Hammonton ..... .433 Hammonton ........ 76
Hyman, Milton ..............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Franc~sco ....67
Jack, Charles P .............Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ..............354 San FranclSCO ....74
Jackson, Francis F .......Oct. 17, '52 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................85
Jefts, Benjamin ............Oct. 27, '48 Justice ................549 San Francisco ....80
Johnson, Einar M....... Sept. 19, '51 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............66
Joiner, Wm. B .............. .Feb. 11, '47 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ..........89
Keen, Cassius H .............Dec. 15, '51 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........83

Average age--Men ···-········-······················..-············································-···········79.49

382

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WOMEN-Aver age age 79.83
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
8758
......
cisco
Frand
OSaaklann
43933
.............
...
Balder
'40
17,
Feb.
Allen Ida ......................
................
Ande~son, Christi'e M. Apr. 10, '50 Yerba Buena ...... 0
Anderson Mary D .....Nov. 19, '51 Sequoia ..............349 Oakla~ ii..............
ey ........
Aver Id~ M ...................Mar. 4, '44 Madison .............. 23 Grass a __
· J . ........... .MaY 15• '48 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland t ...........77
' A nme
69
Baker
Bark~orth, Elizabeth June 14, '51 Union .................. 58 Sacramen o ..........
..................83
Vallejo
487
................
Vallejo
'52
4
Oct
Clara ..........83
B arnes, A nna L • ............
Liberty ............... .299 Santa
. ,
80
d
July 7, '34
Barnes Elaine G .........
Pasadena ............272 Pasa ena ..............
'53
10
.Apr
R
E
'
Bartle tt' va . ...........
··:······.......89
Sequoia ...._........349 Oakland
. '
85
s Fr
Oct. 2, '41
Bausch, Ella A. ..............
.Apr 4 '48 California .......... 1 an anctsco ......
A
B 1a kiston, Ed l.th . ....... · • • '50 Alameda ............167 Centerville ..........80
77
R .....Jan · 11 •
An 1
h
B ouc
d t h J oanna
ge es ··········
Bode L~uise H ............ .Dec. 28, '50 Manchester ........585 Los
·
Progres de
Bouriand, Catherine D. Oct. 31, '51 LeL'Oceanie
......371 Honolulu ...........,•.91
Boyer, Mildred A. ........Sept. 14, '52 Mount Moriah .. 44 San p-anc~co ......
Bradic Elizabeth H .....June 3, '44 Golden Gate ...... 30 San ranc1sco ......73
Brown' Jean L .............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........81
Brown' May M ....- ...... .Nov. 29, 42 Washington ........ 20 Sacramen~o .........•67
.;5 2 DGunoldsmenuS1.r·tate ......~~; ~~J~ e~ ..:::::::88
Bcyronb,' HllorteLnse AP.... .seSepptt. 31o
81
·
..........
. 1• ,50
amp e , ucy . ....
Carnall Louise M .........Dec. 1, 45 Misson ................169 San Francico ......82
Carron,' Nellie P ........ .Aug. 27, '49 Marin ..................191 San Ra!de ·--·--·-···80
Casterline Mary A. ....Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceans1 e ........... ~ 1
Cauch Mabel R. ..........Jan. 19, '51 Friendship ..........210 San Jose··:·--··· ...... 84
Chase,' Aimee c ............ .Dec. 3, '41 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......67
Cheney, Hazel E .........Aug. 15, '51 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ...- .....80
Cicero, Antoinette ....... .Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ·······-----···-···:s4
Coates, Maud F .............Oct. 25, '52 Clearlake ............183 Lowerlake ........... 77
Cope, Hattie May ........July 29, '52 Hartley ................199 Lakeport ..............77
Costain, Mattie L .........June 10, '40 San Jos~ ..............· 10 San Jos~ ................77
Cross Amanda s .........May 26, '52 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocino ............78
Cund~ll, Isabel ........... .Dec. 16, '44 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ········76
Curtis Eva J .................Aug. 27, '52 Ashlar ..................306 Colton d·-······--···--75
Dalto~, Meta c .............Jan. 27, '51 Liv~ Oak ............ 61 Oaklan chic(;.......78
······82
Damner, Jennie ......•.....Aug. 27, '42 Pacif!c ..................136 San Jfran
Davies Sarah J ...........Jan. 16, '53 Martinez ............ 41 Martinezel ..............72
.
.........
d
.Mar 14 '53 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfi
C
· 'A
D avts,
·--····--· .Feb.· 22,' '46 West Lake ..........392 L os Angeles ........78
nna E ·............
Dixon Nora
82
Dott Edna o...............June 11, '52 Washington ........ 20 Sacrament.o ..........
Douthitt, Edith A. ........Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San FranclSco ......76
86
· Emily c . ···.Aug· 22• '52 Apollo
· Eckstein
. . ..................396 Alameda ·..............71
Edward~s, Lina M. ....May 23, '50 Pres1~10 ..............354 S~n Francisco ......72
Edwards, Emma L. ......Nov. 1, '52 Mosaic; ................218 L1ve~ore ............79
Edwards Letitia M .... .Aug. 30, '50 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ._.............75
Elliott, Maude M .........June 15, '48 Be".erly Hills ....528 Be".erly Hills ···Jl
Enos Nellie A. ..............Aug. 5, '49 Salinas ................204 Salin~ ............... .BO
Erwfu Lillian B ...........July 23, '41 Olivet ..................205 Cornmgill............... 84
Fetro~, Dora L •............May 11, '35 Corinthian........ .. 9 Marysv e -·-·--·8 2
.Apr 9 '40 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ........
Ad L
F' 1
FWieyGe~~ 'l::·:::::~_:Jan. '25: '46 Ebnhurst ............610 Oakland ··;·--··........89
166 San Francisco ...... 96
Sept 1 '49 Excelsior
' Al"
...81
Oak1:111d ....~~~in. ~~--r::·~::.".".".".J"uly '49 Oakland ..
Fox Cora F .................Dec. 30, '49 Clovis ..................417 Clovis ...........;...--88
Gafford, Sophia B .........Feb. 7, '49 San Bernardino..348 San Berna_rdmo --~:
Gardner, May A .........July 16, '51 Mission ...........-.169 San Franc~o ···-·
'bl Th eresa ..............Feb· 4 • '53 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......75
69
G e1 e,
Gilliam, Estelle G ........ .Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ..........- .....615 Hemet----··-- ·--

ll

U

0

16:

::::::188

383

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
NlllTle
10
82
..............
................
Jose
Jose
San
San
'50
21,
Nov.
........
Pauline
Goldstein,
Goodwin, Emma ........June 13, '48 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ........80
Goldsworthy, Laura F. Sept. 3, '52 Yosemite ............ 99 Merced ...- .............79
Gowen, Laura ................Jan. 31, '48 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........88
Grant, Lillian A. ..............Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown ........79
Griffith, Rose L. .. ......Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City .... _ .....87
Guthrie, Rena ........,...... .May 27, '52 Buckeye ........:.. _195 Winters ................ 77
Harris, Louise C. .. ......Feb. 19, '52 Pacific ..................136 Satr Francisco ...... 78
Harrison, Martha ........Nov. 19, '52 King Solomons .. 260 San Francisco ......92
Hawkins, Louisa ..........June 26, '48 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................85
Hazard, Marie ............Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................82
Henderlong, Magdalena June 4, '46 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............81
Henderson, Margaret Sept. 23, '50 Oroville ..............103 Oroville ................88
Hepburn, Catherine ......Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica ......61
Hewitt, Frieda Z .............Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ......69
Hill, Catherine A. ........Apr. 26, '48 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles ........ 73
~ollis, Maybelle J ........ .Feb. 11, '53 Francis K.
Shattuck ........571 Berkeley .............. 69
Hoover, Emma Jane ....Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............73
Huber, Tillie A. ............July 7, '49 King Solomon's..260 San Francisco ......88
Hyatt, Nannie · S . ....... .Feb. 13, '48 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........87
Hyman, Loretta ............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......62
Jack, Mary ......................June 1, '31 McKinley ............347 Richmond ............86
Jebe, Elise ....................Mar. 10, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......81
Jones, Edith ....................Jan. 2, '53 Victorville ..........634 Victorville ............84
Jones, Elsie I. ................Jan. 26, '49 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............80
Kapp, Carrie E ............ .July 16, '49 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ...............:81
Kauffman, Eda B ...........Dec. 7, '46 Alex. Gr. BelL .. 595 Los Angeles ........71
Kaufmann, Augusta ... .Mar. 19, '48 East Bay ............489 Berkeley .........- ..84
Kautenberg, Caroline Nov. 23, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ..............83
Keenan, Effie ................July 17, '33 Jewell ..................374 San Francisco ......76
Kendrick, Josephine ......Aug. 5, '49 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................77
King, Catherine L .........Feb. 2, '52 Francis Drake....376 S. San Franeisco.. 72
Kingsley, Lizzie ............Feb. 14, '53 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........78
Krejcik, Otilia ...... ~.........Jan. 25, '49 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................73
Krejcik, Rose ............... .Feb. 16, '48 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......78
Kutzner, Estella ..........Aug. 29, '51 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........77
Lane, Edith B .............Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........79
Langenberger, C ...........Apr 26, '49 Jewell ..................374 San Francisco ......88
Larter, Gertrude M ..... Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........65
Lasman, Esther ............Jan. 10, '52 Bay City ............526 San Francisco ......69
Leland, Sarah F .............Jan. 5, '53 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........81
Lindsey, Mary Jane ....July 28, '52 Visalia ................128 Visalia ..................80
Mackenzie, May W .....June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................75
Macready, Mattie De L. Jan. 10, '53 Southern Calif...278 Los Angeles ........90
Maltby, Sarah E ...........Dec. 16, '39 Chico ....................111 Chico ......................83
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............81
MacAllister, Emily F. Aug. 19, '52 Larchmont ..........614 Los Angeles ........76
McCord, Zidana M .......Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........78
McCully, Gertie M.......June 16, '46 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......77
Mccurry, Alice ............. .Nov. 27, '48 Union .................. 58 Sacramento .......-91
McDowell, Alice N ...... .Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................77
McGarry, Marion A. ......June 2, '48 Catalina Island ..524 Avalon ..................65
McGinnes, Mary M.........May 24, 52 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......93
Mciver, Ella W .................July 9, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............78
McLean, Lucy A. ..........Nov. 28, '34 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......77
Mears, Margaretta T .....Sept. 17, 41 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........73
Meerdink, Gertrude ......Nov. 4, '52 Wilshire ..............445 Los Angeles ........77
Melanphy, Isobel N .........Oct. 4, '51 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............84

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

384

385

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Age
No. Torvn
Admitted Lodge
Name
Merrill, Ivy L ...................Jan. 25, '41 lllinoistown ........ 51 Colfax ....................74
Meyer, Annie J ...............June 2, '51 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............77
Monro, Eddith C ...........Mar. 16, '46 Alpha ..................431 Richmond .............85
Murrell, Catherine ....... .Jan. 12, '52 John Marshall ..636 Beverly Hills ......74
Moore, Louise !...............Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............72
Mullen, Charlotte E .......Jan. 11, '52 Mendocino ........-179 Mendocino ............92
Murray, Florence A .......Apr. 17, '53 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............80
'.'foedham, Esther A .........June 4, '52 Alamo ..................122 Walnut Creek ......91
Newman, Susanna ........June 4, '29 Antioch ..............175 Antioch ................91
Neilsen, Este M .................Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............836 Oakland ................75
O'Donnell, Florence D ...June 1, '43 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............90
Olsen, Minnie ............... .May 28, '52 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ..................70
Otis, Ethel E ...................May 28, '48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............70
Palmer, Elizabeth F .....Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................86
Palmer, Stella !.............July 30, '52 San Gabriel ........546 San Gabriel ..........79
Pankow, Catherine ......Apr. 29, '29 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......88
Parizek, Grace D .............Jan. 11, '49 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ........81
Peacock, Katie C ...........Mar. 15, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................80
Peairs, Lillian W ...........Feb. 11, '35 Normal Heights..632 San Diego ............84
Pearce, Carrie C .............Oct. 11, '46 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................89
Perger, Eva ......................Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................76
Phillips, Ida M ...............Nov. 13, '48 Pajaro ..................110 Watsonville ..........89
Powell, Belle M .............May 15, '50 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......87
Prentice, Rose ............June 30, '45 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............84
Preslar, Ida ....................Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ... ;..........244 Oakland ................91
Randolph, Jeannette ..June 26, '51 Corcoran ........... .490 Corcoran ..............73
Ramsey, Hattie L .........June 23, '40 Monterey ............217 Monterey ..............92
Raymond, Lillian F .....Sept. 31, '39 Liberty ................299 Sai:ita Clara ..........84
Reasoner, Marie D .........July 21, '48 Normal Heights ..632 San Diego ............71
Robertson, Annette M ...Aug. 1, '52 Morgan Hill ........463 Morgan Hill ..........77
Robertson, Mary F .........Apr. 28, '46 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........80
Rudebeck, Anna ............Dec. 15, '48 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......80
Sandbo, Maude R. ........... .Dec. 5, '52 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose ................73
Schwartz, Grace H .........July 12, '42 Arlington ............414 Los Angeles ........81
Seagrave, Edna R. ..........May 17, '52 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............68
Seymour, Laura .........~ ....Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ..............75
Scott, Emma L .............. .Aug. 27, '52 Arcata ..................106 Arcata ....................82
Shanks, Ella ....................Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............82
Shimeall, Charlotte ....... .Feb. 1, '52 Rising Light ......397 Huntington Park..83
Smith, Laura M .............Nov. 24, '51 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......81
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........ 224 Bakersfield ..........80
Sparrowe, Constance ..Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......85
Spaulding, Lillian ........Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......82
Sprague, Julia ..............June 29, '47 Acorn ..................494 Oakland ......,.........85
Steele, Fannie T .......... .June 26, '50 Hanford ..............279 Hanford ................87
Stroud, Laura L ...............June 2, '37 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ..............79
Sutherland, Charlotte ..June 8, '52 Oakland ..............188 Oakland .................80
Swain, Sarah C ...........- .. .Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ...........-74
Taylor, Clara B .................Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......92
Therkelsen, Anna M ...... .Nov. 4, '52 Alisal ..................321 Pleasanton ..........84
Thomas, Elizabeth S ...... .Dec. 7, '41 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........74
Thompson, Celia ............Dec, 16, '33 Eden ....................113 San Leandro ........82
Vale, Olive B ................ .June 18, '36 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......96
Ward, Jennie F ...............Sept. 1, '50 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............88
Wharton, Mary C .......... .Mar. 20, '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ............-'1'1.
Walker, Barbara E ...........Jan. 9, '53 South Park ........562 Los Angeles ........'1.9
Wilcox, Edith ..................May 3, '36 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............85
Williams, Annie F ...........Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......74
Williams, Eda M ...........Nov. 10, '51 Park ....................449 San Francisco ......72

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
.
' N_a":e
J
S
'49
16,
L
Feb.
......
A.
oUise
Will ~ams,
Stockton
19
......
an oaquin
C
iams M
w· t b' ary ...........Feb. 17 '43 Holtville. ............425 Holtv1·11 ..............79
e --:----····----·90
344 S
w~rher erg, Clara ..........Mar l' '50 Starr King
'51 Lancaster ..........437 r!n FrancISco ......92
wh·tf~ Bess T .............Aug. "25:
..............70
klcaster
n
............
View
Bay
'5
8
Oct
1 a er, Ada H. ............
401 0
2
79
a and
............
Woebcke, Gretchen ......Dec ·30 • •52
127 LSan FrAnanc~~·c;·::::::83
Zeehandelaar, Mary E ...Jan: 12; •48 ~~G:ie............
geles ........82
..........335 os

Will

Deaths of MEN-1953
Date of
Death Lodge

No. Town
Age
Name
Armstrong, James
A Edward ........................July 7 ,53 Malta ..................661 50s Angeles ........74
dams, Harrison z.......July 23 • ,53 Orange Grove 293 range ..................89
.. ..
Adams, William E .........Feb. 28; '53 John D.
T Spreckles ........657 ~a~ D~ego ............86
Anderson, Charles A ...June 29 '53 L ehachapi ..........313 Le ~ api ............90
B~akle, Gllrant ..................... .Jan 9• ,53 Los Gatos ........... .292 ~s Gatos ..............87
· ' '53 T os Gatos ............292 wJlia~s ..............74
B ic ne ' ClYd e c ...........Mar. 11,
oswor:th, Henry C .......Jan. 14 '53 uscan .................261 Oecanside ..............89
Casterline, Myron N .....J an. 12' '53 0 ce!ins1de ..........381
~~oss~n, ~am_es A. ............Mar. 6; ,53 P acific Grove ....331 Pacific Gro~~----····:~
ix, dlenJamm ..............Mar. 25 '53 Baldwin Park ....660 Baldwin Park ::::::s1
'
D ow e, Everett
d
Y~rba Buena ...... 403 o kl
stttanley --·:..................June 25 '53 Km.
84
an ................
er, Ferdinand ........Mar· 10•, ,53 F g Solomon's.. 260 Sa
F e "bl
......93
an Francisco
G
G elH.eth, Ge<!r~e ..............May 11, '53 airmont ........... 635 San Francisco ......79
Gr 1 ,MWill1am E .........Mar. 7 '53 Magnolia ..........::242 Santa Barbara 81
....
ro':er, yron ..............Mar 31' '53 Greenleaf ............270 Whittier
............461 San
~~n'!' [re~ Skeets......Sept: 28: '52
N th ' OUl~ c ...............Jan. 23 '53 sf:; i{fu'g.............2 16 SSan Francisco ______ 73
78
Ra an, LouIS H .............Feb. 28' '53 H b
..........344 an Francsco
------7~
ar or ................502 Richmond
ogerlsl, Earl .,................. .Feb. 26' '53 rooklyn
~
............
E
225
',
B
68
R usse ' Wilbur R ...........July1153
ast Oakland
--:--------..
....
Franc·
San
44
..
Moriah
ount
,
'
t
Se
George
acy
M
St
2
.............. P . 2, 53 Hollenbeck
Shults
Ang lSCO ......72
11 L
' John ................ .Mar 3 '53 Parnas
S
eles ........ 85
........ 9 os
lagel, Robert B ..........~~~Feb ·25 • ,53 C . sus ..........388 San Francisco
75
1
V~n~rd, William F .........Jan: 12• ,53 w:Cdb~f
.........313871 WCoaling~ ..........:::::a9
d·g--~
oodbndge ..........88
........
Williams, Robert G .......Jan. 19; ,53

B

jj1'g~naut

Fran~~co·:::::~

Withdrawn
Age
Town
D t
N ame
No.
~ e Lodge
M
Howell, Arth s
Reid John Tur ............... ar. 14, ,53 Carmel Lodge ....680 Carmel ...............-'18
399 San Jose ................T5
........................ar. 19, 53 Fraternity
Th '
..........
omas, John ................May 29, '53 Orlan
Orland ...............-88
d ................265
"tal)
(Napa State H
Alseth ' L ars ................. .Mar.osp1
28, '53 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........79
Admissions of MEN-1953

T
N
Date Lodge
N ame
Age
own
o.
Armstrong, James E .......Apr. 4 '53 M 1
Adams, William E .........Dec. 27; ,52 Jo~aD: .................661 Los Angeles ........74
PaSpreckles ........657 San Diego ............86
,
Bartlett, Louis A .......... .Apr
10• ,53 L sadena ............272 Pasadena ..............90 '
Ben~ett, Charles H ..... July 29
53 Famanda Park ..627 Pasadena ..............76
B~ffmgton, William C ...June 22' '53
Cicero, Carmel ..............Mar. 27 : ,53 y~! Crook ........575 Fall River Mills....63
72
t .................. 12 Napa
.se t. ,
Clark George F
.......... P 15, 52 Blackmer ............442 San D-l~g~--::::::::::74
'

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNI A

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
-81
....
.........
ster
Holli
.211
.........
San Beni to
· Davis, John C .................May 28, '53 Stand
ard ............440 Oakl and ................87
Foss, Alex ande r ............ Oct. 21, '52
thy,
Gold swor
mite ............ 99 Merc ed ..................70
Walt er W .•... _.............. Sept. 3, '52 Yose nleaf
............670 Whit tier ................89
Gree
'52
29,
Dec.
..
.........
Grov er, M..ri;on H
.....584 Los Ange les ........83
.........
ing
Hard
'52
28,
Nov.
....
Hann um, lexan der
433 Ham mont on ........76
......
on
mont
Ham
'52
27,
.
;.Dec
Hulin g; Walla ce S .......
188 Oakl and ................85
.....
.........
and
Oakl
'52
17,
Jacks on, Franc is F .........Oct.
Alam eda ..............88
215
.
.........
e
Grov
Oak
'53
19,
Knig ht, John ..................May
San Franc isco ......83
449
..
.........
.........
Park
'52
8,
Lobb an, Willi ams ......... .Aug.
wood ............ 73
West
501
.
.........
wood
West
'53
17,
Murr ay, Jas. B ...............Apr.
isco ......76
Franc
San
216
..
.........
.........
Doric
Nord strom , Davi d ..........Nov. 3, '52 Carq uinez ..........337 Croc kett ................84
Moig nard, Phill ip R .......July 13, '53
a Valle y .... 184 Sierr aville ............87
Place , John N .................Dec. 29, '52 Sierr
..........643 Long Beac h ..........66
Loma
Perss on, Carl A. ............Apr. 17, '53 Alta
.......... 399 San Jose ................75
rnity
Frate
'52
5,
.Nov.
..
.........
.........
T
John
Reid,
.........417 Clovis ....................73
.........
s
Clovi
'53
13,
July
...
W
ge
Geor
,
Suthe rland
......479 San Jose ................83
Rule
en
Gold
'52
5,
.Dec.
...
.........
E
rt
Albe
Sand bo,
366 Fresn o ..................78
........
as
Palm
Las
'53
26,
June
.......
L
les
Shirr eff, Char
387 Coali nga ..- ...........90
...
.........
nga
Coali
'52
27,
Aug.
......
.........
F
Vena rd, Wm.

Deat hs of WOM EN-1 953
Date of
Age
Name
No Town
Death Lodge
3~
Diego
San
'53
.............Mar. 12 • • Alisa l
San Diego ............ 79
gav¥ ts, Kitti e Ebeth
..........
......Oct. 6 52
avidson, Eliza
3 2 1 SSan Diego ............80
.........
.........
y
Amit
,
•
June
.........
.........
1 53
D?na ld, Flora
370 an Franc isco ......65
D ic;ksgn. Alice M.............Mar 2• ,53 Lin 0 ......... .........
San Franc isco ......92
470
.......
.........
In
n
Aco'i
•
•
·
Apr
..
.........
Ellio tt, Mari on G
23 53
and ................78
Oakl
494
.........
.........
k!
Broo
,
•
JuJY
..
6 53
Edwa :ds, Nelli e B .........
Oakl and ......77
East
225
...
.........
yn
k
Croc
,
s'
Oct.
52 Oxn ett ..............139 San Franc isco ......75
Fortr iede, Augu ste .......
,
•
.Dec.
.
Grah am, Alice M.........
20 52
83
lard ..................84
.......333461 OOxnkand
ie F ...........Feb. s'. ,'53 Fruifv~le.........
a
Gralsham, Mam
...
.........
.A
.9
K e ey Ada M
30 • ,52 South Gate ........320 Los Ang~ie~ .........
........864
Kidd er' Halli e 'i)'...........Nug.
nce ............447 T orran ce .........
Torraorn.
.....
ov. 14' ,53 Calif
............Feb
' M
L th am,
artha .........
22 53
a
Ia ......... . 1 San Franc isco ......81
...... 75
LarS?n, Alice B ................ .Apri 3•• •,53 Balde
Cr r ................393 San Franc isco ......
Lewi s, Eliza beth ..........Mar 7 53 S
84
0 ~~ft~ .............. 139 San Franc isco
Maha n, Eliza beth ..........Jan: 20 • ,53
83
.......
··:·-....
and
Oakl
349
.....
.........
P~sid'a0
86
North , Jane~Johnson ....Feb. 15'• ,'53 Ed
......... ..... 354 San Franc isco
Nov
L
a
Lenit
s,
Owen
16 52
5~~ ~an FFrancsco
.
8; •53 La u~!r~~ite ..........
~~vrtilleA,Mari e ...:::::::::::::Nov
an rancs co ......85
........
ni
Phoe
•
.....
o , nna M......... ·Jan.· 24• ,52 Fr
..............178 San Franc isco ······91
x
.
Alice
K.
ase
Trele '
ancIS
31 , 53
..............
Berk eley ..............83
uck ........571
Shatt
,
.N
B
20
Lillie
n
Wilso
............ ov. 19' 52 Wash ingto n :::::::261
Wh't 'E
..........83
ento
~m~iaml$
..............93
i e, mma C............ .July 31, '53 Tusc an ........

386

Admi ssion s of WOM EN-1 953
Age
No. Town
Date Lodge
·
Name
83
.........
.........
jo
Valle
487
Valle jo ................
Barn s, Anna ..................Oct. 4, '52 Pasad
ena ..............80
Pasad
272
...
.........
ena
'53
10,
Apr.
.........
Bartl ett, Eva .........
t Mori ah .. 44 San Franc isco ......81
Boye r, Mild red A .........Sept. 14, '52 Moun
State ......358 Los Ange les ........67
en
GQld
'52
30,
Sept.
.
Bryo n, Horte nse .........
......... 12 Napa ......................60
.........
t
Youn
'53
27,
.Mar.
Cicero, Anto inette .......
...183 Lowe r Lake ..........84
.........
lake
Clear
'52
25,
Coates, Maud e F ...........Nov.
306 Colto n ....................76
.........
.........
ar
Ashl
'52
27,
Curti s, Eva J ...................Aug.
41 Mart inez .........~......82
...
.........
inez
Mart
Davie s, Sarah J ...............Jan. 16, '53 Bake rsfiel d ........224 Bake rsfiel d ..........72
Davis , Anna C...............Mar. 14, '53 Apol lo ..................396 Alam eda ......._.,,.8 6
Eckst ein, Mari on ....... .Aug. 20, '52
ic ............... .218 Liver more ............72
Edwa rds, Emm a R. ........Nov. 1, '52 Mosa
..................494 Oakl and ................78
Acom
'52
20,
.Aug.
..
.........
n
Mario
t,
Elliot
..........435 San Franc isco ......75
ount
Fairm
'53
4,
.Feb.
......
.........
sa
There
Geibl e,
... 99 Merc ed ..................79
.........
mite
Yose
'52
3,
Sept.
...
F
a
Laur
thy,
Gold swor
260 San Franc isco ......92
....
on
Solom
King
'52
19,
Nov.
.
.........
ha
Harri son, Mart
.
K.
is
Franc
'53
11,
.Feb.
..
.........
Hollis, Mayb elle
.....69
Shatt uck ........571 Berk eley ...............
rville ....,.. 84
Victo
634
.
.........
rville
Victo
'53
2,
.Jan.
...
Jones , Edith ..................
nbeck ........319 Los Ange les ........78
King sley, Lizzie ............Feb. 14, '53 Holle
............290 Los Ange les ........81
Gate
East
'53
5,
Jan.
Lelan d, Sarah F ...............
..........614 Los Ange les ........76
mont
Larch
'52
19,
MacA lliste r, Emil y F .. .Aug.
......278 Los Ange les ........90
ornia
Calif
S.
'53
MacR eady, Matt ie D .... .Jan. 10,
.....445 Los Ange les ........77
.........
ire
Wilsh
Meer dink, Gertr ude ......Nov. 4, '52 West wood ..........501 West wood ............80
Murr ay, Flore nce ........Apr. 17, '53 La Parfa ite
Reuil le, Mari e ................Jan. 27, '53
Unio n .............. 17 San Franc isco ......87
an Hill ........463 Morg an Hill ........77
Morg
'52
1,
.Aug.
..
M
tte
Anne
,
rtson
Robe
Rule ......479 San Jose ........ _ .....73
en
G<>ld
'52
5,
.Dec.
• Sand bo, Maud e R ............
................ 106 Arca ta ..................82
Scott , Emm a L ...............Aug. 27, '52 Arca ta
K.
is
Franc
'52
Trele ase, Alice ..............Dec. 14,
83
Shatt uck ........571 Berk eley ..............
84
...
.........
anton
Pleas
321
.........
.........
l
Alisa
Therk elsen , Anna M .......Nov. 4, '52
79
........
les
Ange
Los
........562
Walk er, Bar.h ara ............Jan. 9, '53 South Park
--.......401 Oakl and .......- ......79
View
Bay
'52
8,
Oct.
.
........
H
Ada
,
taker
Whit
...........-127 San Franc isco ......83
Woeb cke, Gretc hen ......Dee. 30, '52 Herm an

.May

f

387

::::::as

With draw n
ll p
H
.Mar. 14, '53 Carmnel Lodg e ... .680 Carm el ..................65
cf~e :z.. earl .................Mar,
'53 Mari
u e, ~·ra?ces E ......... Mar. 18,
.................. 191 San Rafa el ............77
9, '53)
(Com mitte d to Napa

388

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AINMENT FUN D, 1952-1953
DECOTO CHRISTMAS AND ENTERT
Amo unt
Amount No. Lodge
No. Lodge
5-gg
......
........
........
183 Clea r Lake
$
g·
···
---····
-···--·
---·--1 Cali forn ia ........................
-----Keith
187
1~:gg
1 ·00
·
-·····--·······--··:-3 Teha ma ··························
land
Oak
188
10.00
5·00
.
190 Nort hern Light.............. _ 12·50
9 Cori nthia n .......................
15 _00
..............
........
........
in
Mar
191
10 San Jose ........................
00
g:gg
192 Sant a Barb ara ..............
12 You nt ··--··-········--·········
5.
2
1
.
.... 7 ........ ........ ....
dal_e
Fern
193
-gg
13 Nev ada ...........................
5
10·00
···
194 Mou ntain View ..............
·
16 Eure ka ···-········:·-n········
10.00
..
gton
........
'
7 50
Unio
W'lm
aite
....
Parf
........
La
5.00
........
8
m
i
17
10.00 19
·
....
........
........
··
........
········
ley
·····-·
Hart
19 San Joaq uin
lO.OO 199
00
10
10.00
..................
20 Was hing ton ··--······-···--··
25.00 200 T!llcke~ ........
·
201 Silve yvill e .................-...
21 Haw aiian ---···················
00
~· 00
......
20. 0 203 Conf!dence ......................
22 Occi dent al ................
10'00
......................
-s~aus
s~~mi
206
23 Mad ison ---·······-···-··-1g:80
......
·
··
26 El Dora do ................
5 _00 208 Ri_o Vista.--;·······--·----·····..
00
10
10:00
........
........
s
d
fiiii
27 Trin ity ············•···············
FKi!lg
25.00 209
10 00
......
........
........
P
.
s
nen
210
30 Gold en Gate ·····-··········
5.00
·
--32 Gold Hill -·-----···-·--··-lO.OO 211 San Benito-----·--···:·--···-....
00
10
10:00
-··
··--·h San Fran cisco
·······
Sout
····-··
37 How ard
212
10.00
.
.....
10.00
........
........
........
Cruz
........
a
........
Sant
~rey
Mont
38
15 _00 217
... .
--··-··--·-40 Sacr ame nto ................
75_00 218 Mosaic ······--···:···-7·50
.
..
........
.....
........
inez
Mart
anza Itah ana --···-···
Sper
219
41
0
5
lO.OO
.
..
.......
........
........
........
iah
........
Mor
nt
ney
Mou
Dow
44
5·8o 220
5.oo
·00 222 Rose ville ........................
45 Cres cent ·····-······-···-----·
~~:gg
······
rsfie ld .........-.........
Bake
224
46 Texa s -·--··--···········-···
~:oo
....
··--····--···-·····--··
51 Illin oisto wn ................
25 _00 225 Broo klyno......
25·00
................
·····
Mate
San
226
,
.
57 Sant a Rosa ·--······-·--·.....
50
12
5·00
.
...............
.......
Ferry
Hills
236
.oo
58 Unio n ........................
25
2 ·oo
50
..........
........
........
sa....
Colu
240
61 Live Oak· ······· ·--·--····-····
.oo
5
10·
......
........
........
··
Ana
a
Sant
241
64 Nato ma·· ···················-···
5 00
5· 00o
..
....................
65 Ama dor ........................
2.50 245 Laur el ........
20 ·0
.
.......
..
........
........
........
t
........
........
bold
Hum
ona
Pom
246
79
25 .00
00
25 ·oo
......
87 Nav al ........................
10.00 247 Fres no ............................
5
10:00
......
........
···-···
........
········
k
99 Yose mite ········
10.00 253 Land !Ilar
..................
101 Clay --·-··········-····--·········
5 .oo 254 Read ing ........
5 00
20"00
·
..........
··············
106 Arca ta··-· ·······
10.00 258 Penr hyn ................
·
gree n ......................
········-····
Ever
259
110 Paja ro ······-········
lO.OO
00
10
........
5°00
............................
an
Tusc
111 Chic o ........................
261
25.00
....
10:00
·
-······
···-·-120 Fide lity ........................
·······-o~
5.00 262 Lomp
..............
·········--····
126 Lafa yette ···-····........
20.oo 264 Hesp enan ........ ............
7:50o
....... .
........
........
nd
Orla
265
127 Herm ann ........ ............. .
.oo
20
5
55.00
··
·---···
128 Visa lia ................
5.00 267 Galt ·--····-······-·--·······-·······
··
·······
·······
00
10
ge····
dbrid
Woo
···--···
131
5.00 268 Dura nt ··--····
........
5'00
134 Vaca ville ................
10 00 269 Oliv e Bran ch ................
2 ·
············
136 Pacific -··-···········
15:00 272 Pasa dena ···-············-·····
5 00
..........
139 Croc kett ................
5:00
·
-······
···-···
143 Fran klin ····-··
50.00
..
........
........
........
ford
Han
144 Orie ntal ·········-····-·········.
279
7 50
.....
~·~~
150 Moli no ........................
----·······
5:00 280 Mad era --···--····-···
·-···
········
--···-·
156 Woo dlan d
.50 281 Mou nt Shas ta ................
12
5.00
........
........
........
i
yom
166 Exce lsior ···········-··---·····
Cala
282
5 oo
~~:~~
167 Alam eda ··-------------------.·
283 Sout h Y1est ....................
10:00
.......
.........
City
ood
Redw
el ....................
168
Migu
San
285
25.00
....
lO.OO
169 Miss ion ........................
286 Paso Robl es ....................
l5.00
....
2.50
.
00
175 Anti och ........................
·
289 Els more ···-·······--·----····
.
.....
10.00
........
........
no
25
doci
Men
•
179
···---·
····-···
--·····
Gate
East
290
12.50
.
lO. 00
180 Pet~uma _. ......................
5.00 292 Los Gato s ······· ····-· ··-181 Russ ian River----·-·--··--··

1 00

2~:~~ ~~: ~~~~~-c~"iif~;;i;··::::

389

Lodge
Amount No. Lodge
Amo unt
10.00 449 Park ................................
293 Oran ge Grov e ................
5.00
10.00 460 Mou nt Oso ....................
297 Dun smu ir ......................
15.00
.
...
10.00 461 Argo naut ........................
299 Libe rty ........................
10.00
10.00 462 Paul Reve re ..................
301 Onta rio ............................
5.00
.
.....
........
........
........
.
.
ar
........
Ashl
5.00
........
306
14.48
463 Mor gan Hill
..
......
........
........
alk
.
.
Norw
........
5.00
315
10.00
466 Libe rtas ................
5.00 467 Culv er City ....................
321 Alisa l ..............................
20.00
..
...
........
,
..
........
mbra
.
25.00 468 Rock ridge .....................
322 Alha
5.00
10.00 471 Delt a ................................
324 Coro na ............................
10.00
.
...
........
........
........
5.00 477 Tem blor ..........................
326 Need les
5.00
15.00 478 Thou sand Oaks ............
327 Long Beac h ....................
15.00
.
.
........
........
5.00 479 Gold en Rule ..................
328 Redo ndo ........
10.00
331 · Pacific Grov e ................
10.00 483 Bell ..................................
10.00
..
......
10.00 486 Cale doni a ......................
336 Frui tvale ................
17.50
10.00 487 Vall ejo ........................... .
337 Carq uine z ......................
10.00
.
35.00 489 East Bay ....................... .
341 Oxn ard ...........................
5.00
15.00 491 Woo dsto ck .................... ..
343 San Fern ando ................
5.00
..
..
........
........
King
r
.
...
Star
12.50
........
344
10.00
493 Atas cade ro ........
.
.......
........
........
Alto
..
Palo
12.50
....
346
10.00
494 Aco rn ........................
15.00 497 Frem ont ..........................
· 347 McK inley ........................
10.00
..
..
........
o
ardin
Bern
..
10.00 500 Roos evel t ......................
348 San
5.00
.
.
........
........
........
10.00 502 Harb or ........................... .
349 Sequ oia
10.00
.
.......
........
........
10.00 503 Poin t ................................
351 Pale stine
10.00
17.50 507 El Segu ndo .................. ..
353 Pino le ..............................
15.00
..
..
........
25.00 510 Cup ertin o ......................
356 Mill Vall ey ........
10.00
12.50 511 Sunn yval e .................... ..
360 San Fran cisco .............. ..
15.00
.
...
25.00 513 Cahu enga ......................
366 Las Palm as ................
10.00
25.00 514 Argo nne ......................... .
367 Sout h Pasa dena ............
15.00
15.00 516 Taft ..................................
371 le Prog res de L'Oc eani e__
15.00
370 Ami ty ....................... ____
..
........
10.00
........
10.00
........
Jolla
La
518
374 Jewe l ....................... ____ _
5.00 521 Pied mon t ...................... ..
20.00
.
.....
........
........
d
mon
.
...
12.50 525 Geo rge Was hing ton
375 Rich
5.00
10.00 526 Bay City ........................
376 Fran cis Drak e ..............
10.00
.
..
........
........
........
21.00 527 Cov enan t ....................... .
377 Arte sia
10.00
15.00 531 Alex andr ia ....................
5.00
379 Fillm ore ..........................
.
.....
........
5.00 539 Belv eder e .................... ..
382 High land Park
27.27
.
.......
........
10.00 545 Jona than ....................... .
384 El Cent ro ........
5.00
7.50 546 San Gab riel ....................
385 Dinu ba ............................
10.00
.
10.00 550 Seap ort ......................... .
388 Parn assu s .....................
5.00
50.00 551 Lake shor e ......................
393 Bald er ............................
5.00
5.00 552 Sem per Vire ns ..............
397 Risin g Ligh t ..................
10.00
20.00 558 Poin t Firm in ............... .
400 Burl inga me ....................
10.00
15.00 561 East San Dieg o .......... ..
401 Bay View ........................
10.00
.
.
........
........
........
ley
10.00 574 S. W. Hack ett ............... .
402 Braw
20.00
5.00
403 Yerb a Buen a ..................
10.00
576 El Cajo n Vall ey ............
.
.
........
........
........
5.00 578 Prog ressi ve ....................
407 La Mesa
34.00
25.00 580 Sant a Mar ia ................. .
409 Hon olulu ........................
10.00
.
10.00 581 Secu rity ......................... .
411 Perr is .............................
5.00
10.00 589 Kau ai ..............................
412 Cale xico ..........................
25.00
10.00 590 Com pass ....................... .
415 Silv er Trow el ................
10.00
5.00 593 All State s ..................... .
429 Pitts burg ........................
10.00
15.00 594 Serv ice .................,......... .
431 Alph a ..............................
25.00
25.00 595 Alex ande r Grah am Bell
433 Ham mon ton ................ ..
15.00
.
5.00 603 Dim ond ....... - .................
434 Mari copa .......................
10.00
10.00 609 Prov iden t ..................... .
435 Fair mou nt ....................
25.00
.
......
.......
5.00 620 Poin t Lom a ....................
440 Stan dard ........
10.00
5.00 621 The Gard ens .............. ..
441 Coro nado ....................... .
10.00
10.00 634 Vict orvil le .................... ..
447 Torr ance ........................
5.00
.
.......
........
lo
5.00 635 Rive rside ........................
448 Mou nt Diab
15.00
No.

No.

Lodge

638 Indian Rock ··················
645 A. F. E. Irwin.....•..........
648 Damascus ···········-······,··

~~~ ~aal~:e~..:::=::=::::~~:::::::::

Amount

i8:88
5.00

Chapter

No.

fl

Searchlight ···············-··-···1
Wilmington ....................•.l
Roseville .........................•..l'6

Amt.
10.00
5.00
2.50

Total ···················-······-··----.$193.'76
COMMANDERIES. IC. T.
662 Henry Knox ··················
No.
Amt.
Comma nderY
665 K.aweah ··························
2
$
5.00
68 San Gorgonio ················
6669
10.00
John P. Jarman..............
5.00 Sacra:mento ·············-···~·····5.00 Oroville ···········-··-·······-··-··-:
2.50
673 Far West ........................
Nevada ·-········-··········-·-·--·'7
5.00
5
675 Modesto ············-··-········
5.00
5· O Marysville ···--····-··-··-·-·io
676 Willow Glen ··················
San Jose ····················-······· 12
5.00
Chico ·······························-···14
7.50
Santa Rosa ··························18
10.00
686 Albany ···························•
~-gg Ventura ·······-················-··· 19
5.00
688 Oildale ···················-·······
10:00 Naval ······················-·············:is
7.50
690 San Carlos ····················
10.00 St. Bernard ······················~4
2.50
691 Indian Wells Valley ..... .
5
Cc;>lus_a ···········-··-·······-···-· .26
12.50
Rim
of
the
World..........
711
Visalia ···········--··················.27
5 00
U.D. Estero ·······:···············-·····
~-gg San Luis Obispo ···············
10:00
U.D. Mineral King ················ 2 879:25 Pasadena ····························~~
10.00
Total ....................................$ •
Mt.. Shasta ·····················-···33
15.00
CHAPTERS R. A. M.
Ukiah ···············-·················35
5.00
Amt. Eureka ··---~--.-·······:·············3
10 00
Chapter
No.
Southern
California
········ 7
2:50
2.50
6
Nevada ··-····················--·--·18 $ 2.50 Santa Cruz ·····················-···~
5.00
Grass Valley ······················
5.00
1.25 Palo Alto ···········-······-··•····52
22
Petaluma ···············-···········
···········-···················56
15.00
5.00 Auburn
27
··························68
5.00
Delta ·-······-························· 31
5.00 Hollywood
Martinez •....•........................
Alameda ·······-·····················60
5:tio
5.00
37
San Pedro ························•·
10.00
Siloam ···-··-···············-······-38
2.50
62
Santa Cruz ···················-·12.50 Calvary ···-··-··········-······-·..
Visalia ···········-······-·············"
5.00
Total...........•.............................$180.0&
Humboldt ··························•·62
5.00
COUNCIL. R. & S. M. .
Keystone ············-·············.56
2.50
60
·z
No.
Amt.
Colusa ·························-··-···62
2.50
CoutlCI
,
1 $ 5.00
San Luis ···········-·················
5.00 Sacramento ·-··········-···········
5.00
St. Helena ·······--········-··-···63
5.00 Gateway
66
5.00
Doric ···-··-··-··-··-··-·······-··
2.50 Pasadena ···-·········-·--··-···17
2.50
Riverside ···················-·······8'1 ·
5.00 Santa Cruz ···-.. ····-···..···-···
72
5 00
Crown ···-····························· 74
2" 50
37.50 Pacific ·······················-·········37
38
Hanford ·······-·······················
·
5.00 San Luis Obispo ················
Pomona ..............................,.75
5.00
Ferndale ·····················-·······T8
Total..............................'."' ...........$20.00
2.50
Calaveras ..................•.........83
5.00
A. & A. S. R.
San Pedro ···-··············-··-··,89
5.00
Amt.
Palo Alto ···············-········-·93
5.00
20
Fidelity ···························-···98
5.00 Peninsula Bodies ·············;··········• ·~
Redondo ...........................:lOl
5.00 Fresno Lodge of Perfection...... 50.0
Marin ................................102
25.00
5.00 San Fran~isco Lodge of
Mill Valley ····-··················108
Perfection ···-··-·············--;-·· l2 50
5.00
109
El Centro ···············--·······
Lodge of Perfe~ion .
5.00 California
South Pasadena ..............112
5.00 0 kland Lodge of Perfection .... 25.00
114
12 50
Coalinga ·························•··
5.00 s:cramento Bodies ···················· ·
Sebastopol ···········-··-··-·.117
5.00
Hollywood .....•...............•..120
141
Total.........·-······-······-··--····-' ~
2.50
Huntington Park •.....•....•127

1g:gg
5.gg

i8:oo

~~~ ~~~mp}u~~··:::::::::::::::::::::

391

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

390

·8°

~:gg

.oo

-

··········-····-···········1:

-

DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATION

MISCELLANEOUS

Total ...................................... - ...$10.00
CHAPTERS, O. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Leilani ...............................- ....8 $ 10.00
Mercedes ............................126
10.00
Escondido ..........................1154
7.50
10.00
Mill Valley ···-······..······-...219
10.00
San Rafael ·······-··········-··.215

Amt.
George Hildebrand ···-··············-'· 2.33
Francis M. Greffoz ...................... 2.50
Vernon C. Noble ........................ 2.50
University Square Club ............ 5.00
"633" Club .................................... 10.00
Cleveland C. Cochran.................. 5.00
Liston 0. Allen ···········-··············· 2.50
J. W. Hawkins ............................ 10.00
Low Twelve Club ...................... 25.00
Harry W. Werner ....................•... 2.50
Everett Hale Shapiro ................ 2.50
Anon............................................... 10.00

Total ..............................- ..•.....•..$47.50

Total............................................$79.83

Amt.
420th District ................................$10.00

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
July 31, 1953
Boys-37
Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Achenbach, Howard .. Sept. 11, '49 Progressive ........ 578 Los Angeles ........ 9
Anderson, Raymond .. Sept.11, '51 Taft ......................516 Taft ·····-···········----12
Armstrong, Robert ..... .Dec. 21, '47 Tyrian ................439 Manteca •...............16
Ashurst, Ellis ..................Feb. 2, '47 Magnolia ·-·········242 Santa Barbara ....16
Ashurst, Larry ···········-··.Feb. 2, '47 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara ....13
Barham, Thomas ..........June 27, '51 Moneta ..:_...........405 Los Angeles ........ 8
Barham, Jerry ..............June 27, '51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........ 6
Beard, Paul ..................... ~. 5, '46 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............14
Readmitted ..............Mar. 29, '53
Beard, Robert ..................Aug. 5, '46 Pasadena ............272 · Pasadena ..............12
Readmitted ..............Mar. 23, '53
Beard, William ................Aug. 5, '46 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..'............16
Readmitted ...! ..... _...Mar. 16, '53
Beckman, Charles ....... .Nov.12, '49 Eureka ··············- 16 Auburn ..............•.12
Burkhalter, Charles ....Mar. 26, '45 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ........ 14
Case, Arthur ................Sept. 24, '46 W. Los Angeles..373 W. Los Angeles.... 14
Darling, Truman ............Jan. 28, '48 Liberty ·····-·········299 Santa Clara ..........10
Deemer, Robert ................Jan. 6, '52 Ocean Park ........369 Ocean Park ..........13
Eller, Harold ···········-···June 23, '44 Meridian ............667 Glendale ·······-·····15
Emery, Jack ..................June 20, '53 University ..........394 Los Angeles ....•... 6
Fifield, Jerald ................Aug. 31, '50 Benevolence ......631 Los Angeles ........1-1
Finney, Charles ..............July 5, '49 Neptune •.............61'1 Long Beach .......... 12
Finney, Michael ..............July 5, '49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach .......... 10
Flannigan, Richard ......Jan. 28, '50 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 10
Foster, Kenneth ..............July 8, '51 Signal ..................543 Long Beach ........•.11
Hacquebord, Charles ....Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ..........436 Claremont ·········--10
Harris, Earl ....................Apr. 28, '51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................16
Irland, Lynn ·-··-····-···Sept. 15, '52 All States ............593 Long Beach ···-·····12
Joy, Harry ......................Aug. 10, '47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........11
Joy, William ................. .June 15, '47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ···-·····16
Kilpatrick, Charles ......Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 6
Kilpatrick, David ........Mar.16, '52 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 6
Kilpatrick, Paul ............Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 6
Lohr, Charles ···········-···June 14, '52 La Habra ............659 La Habra .............. 6
Lohr, Duncan ..................June 7, '52 La Habra ···--·····659 La Habra ·······-···- 7
Mason, David ..................July 2, '44 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ·······-···--14
Place, Barry ....................Aug. 9, '47 Burlingame ........400 Burlingame .........•13
Platt, Lawrence ·····-····.Aug. 20, '52 San Bernardino..348 San Bernardino .. 8
Wylie, Kenneth -··········June 18, '52 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........ 9

.

Girls-2

Girls-28
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
11
........
Angeles
Los
578
........
e
Achenbach , Patricia .... Sept. 11, '48 Progressjv
Allison, Linda ..............June 17, '45 Ashlar ................306 Colton ....................13
Allison, Patricia ..............Apr. 1, '45 Ashlar ................306 Colton ···············-···179
........
Barham, Patricia ..........June 27, '51 Moneta ·······-······-405 Los Angeles
Barnett, Marie ..............July 19, '52 Acorn ..................494 Oakland ................10
14
Darling, Mary ········-···.Aug. 26, '46 Liberty ···-··········.299 Santa Clara ..........
Decker, Shirley ·········-···Jan. 26, '52 Guardian ............596 South Gate ..........10
Deemer, Linda ···········-···Ja n. 6, '52 Ocean Park ........369 Ocean Park ..........15
Hacquebor d, Patricia ..Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ..........436 Claremont ............12
Hacquebor d, Suzanne ..Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ..........436 Claremont ............14
11
Harpster, Adrian ..........June 28, '53 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........ 12
Harris, Bonnie ..............Apr. 28, '51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................ 12
Johnson, Judith ............Sept. 8, '49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........
Johnson, Kathleen ........Sept. 8, '49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........10
Larsen, Cherie ..............June 24, '52 Culver City ........467 Los Angeles ........15
13
Larsen, Sandra ............June 24, '52 Culver City ........467 Los Angeles ........16
Leach, Madelyn ................Oct. 1, '50 Palisades ............63'1 Santa Monica ...... 11
Lohr, Frances ................June 14, '52 La Habra ............659 La Habra ..............
Lohr, Grace ..................June 14, '52 La Habra ............659 La Habra ··········---135
Neilsen, Darlene ............July 1, '52 Covina ................334 Covina ..................
Neilsen, Linda -··············July 1, '52 Covina ···-···········334 Covina ..................10
Offinga, Elinor ................Aug. 4, '44 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........14
Ostrander, Carol ..........Sept. 14, '51 Big Bear ............617 Big Bear Lake ...... 10
Ostrander, Diann ........Sept. 14, '51 Big Bear ............617 Big Bear Lake...... 13
Pease, Barbara Joanne..July 18, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 16
9
Rose, Lorna ···-···-········- Sept. 9, '50 Temple City ...... 612 Temple City ........
·Weist, Nancy ................Aug. 25, '46 Mancheste r ........585 Los Angeles ........15
Williams, Jeannette ......June 2, '43 Ione ...................... 80 lone ........................16

Admitted to Covina Home-A ugust 1, 1952 to July 31, 1953
Boys-7

Age
(at admittance)
Beard, Paul ...................... Aug. 5, '46 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena
14
Readmitte d ................Mar. 29, '53
Beard, Robert ..................Aug. 5, '46 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena
12
Readmitte d ................Mar. 23, '53
Beard, William ................Aug. 5 '46 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena
15
Readmitte d ·······-······.Mar. 16, '53
Emery, Jack ..................June 20, '53 University .......... 394 Los Angeles ............67
Platt, Lawrence ............Aug. 20, '53 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino ....
....... ~.11
Irland, Lynn ···········-···Sept. 15, '52 All States ............593 Long Beach
Williams, Robert ......... .Feb. 14, '53 Pearl Harbor ......598 Honolulu .............. U

Name

Admitted Lodge

No.

Town

Girls-1

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
····-----11
Angeles
Los
320
......
_
Gate
South
'53
28,
Harpster, Adrien ..........June

Departed During the Year August 1, 1952 to July 31, 1953
Boys-2
Admitted
Name
Angel, William R. ........Mar. 22, '46
Averill, Gordon W .......Feb. 19, '49
Readmitte d ..................Apr. 2, '52
Williams, Robert D .......Feb. 14, '53

393

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

392

Departed
Mar.14, '53
Jan. 15, '51
June 11, '53
July 22, '53

Age
16

13
11

Age

Departed
July 12, '48
June 17, '53
Oct. 22, '52

Admitted
Name
Bowman, Lorraine E.• Aug. 31, '45
Readmitte d ..................Aug. 2, '49
Porter, Suzan E .............Sept. 12, '50
•Graduate

17
13

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home, July 31, 1952
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
N!lme
Pilz, Theodore Charles.......-............. Alcatraz ····-·····--.244 ....... .November,' 1946
Armstrong , James Harold................ Tyrian ................439 ......September 1952

COVINA CHRISTM AS AND ENTERTA INMENT FUND, 1952-1953
No.

Lodge

1 California ......................
3 Tehama ..........................
9 Corinthian ......................
10 San Jose ..........................
12 Yount ..............................
13 Nevada ............................
16 Eureka ............................
17 La Parfaite Union. .........
19 San Joaquin ..................
20 · Washingto n ................... .
21 Hawaiian ....................... .
22 Occidental ..................... .
23 Madison ..........................
24 Mariposa ........................
26 El Dorado ..................... .
27 Trinity ............................
30 Golden Gate ···-·············
32 Gold Hill ....................... .
37 Howard ........................... .
38 Santa Cruz ....................
41 Martinez ......................... .
44 Mount Moriah ............... .
45 Crescent ......................... .
46 Texas ............................. .
51 lliinoistow n ................... .
55 Suisun ..............................
57 Santa Rosa ......................
58 Union ............................. .
61 Live Oak ........................
64 Natoma ........................... .
65 Amador ..........................
79 Humboldt ........................
87 Naval ..............................
99 Yosemite ....................... .
101 Clay ..................................
104 Lexington ......................
106 Arcata······· ··········-······-···
110 Pajaro ............................. .
111 Chico ............................... .
126 Lafayette ........................
127 Hermann ........................
128 Visalia ............................

Amount No. Lodge

37.50
10.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
75.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
12.50
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
25.00
10.00
10.00
50.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
20.00

131
134
136
139
143
144
150
156
166
167
168
169
175
179
180
181
183
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
198
199
200
203
206
208
209
210
211
212
217
218
219
220
222
224
225
226

Amount

Woodbridg e ....................
Vacaville ·····-·················
Pacific ..............................
Crockett ···········-·············
Franklin··· ··-···················
Oriental ..........................
Molino ............................
Woodland ........................
Excelsior ........................
Alameda ..........................
Redwood City ................
Mission ··························Antioch ···············- ···········
Mendocino ......................
Petaluma ············-··········
Russian River ............... .
Clear Lake ···········-·····' ···
Keith ................................
Oakland ....•.....................
Northern Light ..............
Marin ..............................
Santa Barbara ..............
Ferndale ..............•...........
Mountain View ........... .
Wilmingto n ....................
Hartley .............................
Truckee ..........................
Confidence ..................... .
Stanislaus ···········-·········
Rio Vista ....................... .
King David's ................. .
Friendship ......................
San Benito ......................
South San Francisco... .
Monterey ....................... .
Mosaic ·························-···
Speranza Italiana ....... .
Downey ..........................
Roseville ........................
Bakersfield ....................
Brooklyn ·····-·················
San Mateo···'··················

5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
25.00
7.50
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

394
Lodge

236 Hills Ferry ......................
240 Colusa ···················-·········
241 Santa Ana ..................... .
245 Laurel ..............................
247 Fresno ............................. .
253 Landmark ···············-·····
254 Reading ......................... .
258 Penrhyn ······-··················
259 Evergreen ......................
261 Tuscan ............................
262 Lompoc ............................
264 Hesperian ........................
265 Orland ···········-···············
267 Galt ..................................
268 Durant ···-······················
269 Olive Branch ..................
272 Pasadena ........................
274 . Arroyo ............................
278 Southern California ... .
279 Hanford ......................,...
280 Madera ..:....,....................
281 Mount Shasta ............... .
282 Calayomi ....................... .
283 South West ....................
285 San Miguel ....................
286 Paso Robles ....................
289 Elsinore ......................... .
290 East Gate ····-··················
292 Los Gatos ....................... .
293 Orange Grove ................
297 Dunsmuir ..................... .
299 Liberty ............................
301 Ontario ........................... .
306 Ashlar ..............................
315 Norwalk ......................... .
319 Hollenbeck ....................
320 South Gate ....................
321 Alisal ·····················-·······
322 Alhambra ........................
324 Corona ............................
326 Needles ~-·························
327 Long Beach ....................
328 Redondo ·················-·······
331 Pacific Grove ................
336 Fruitvale ........................
337 Carquinez ·········-···········
339 Fullerton ···············-·······
341 Oxnard ............................
343 San Fernando ................
344 Starr King ·········-···········
346 Palo Alto ....................... .
347 McKinley ........................
348 San Bernardino ........... .
349 Sequoia ......................... .
351 Palestine ·················-·····
353 Pinole ..............................
356 Mill Valley ········-··········
360 San Francisco ............... .
366 Las Palmas ....................

Amount
5.00
2.50
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
50.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.()0
7.50
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
36.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
15.00
12.50
12.50
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.50
25.00
12.50
25.00

Amount
No. Lodge
25.00
367 South Pasadena ........... .
15.00
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
10.00
370 Amity······························
5.00
374 Jewel ·····-·······················
12.50
375 Richmond ......................
10.00
376 Francis Drake ................
21.05
···············-···········
377 Artesia
5.00
378 Mizpah ............................
15.00
379 Fillmore ···········-·············
5.00
382 Highland Park ............. .
10.00
384 El Centro ....................... .
7.50
385 Dinuba ···················-·······
10.00
388 Parnassus ........................
50.00
393 Balder ..............................
394 University ..................... . 112.00
5.00
397 Rising Light ................. .
20.00
400 Burlingame ....................
15.00
401 Bay View ........................
10.00
402 Brawley ......................... .
5.00
403 Yerba Buena ..................
10.00
405 Moneta ·············-········-···
5.00
407 La Mesa ..........................
25.00
409 Honolulu ........................
10.00
411 Perris ..............................
10.00
412 . Cal~xico ···········--···········
10.00
414 Arlington ....................... .
10.00
415 Silver Trowel ................
50.00
416 Lindsay ..........................
25.00
421 Inglewood ···········-·········
5.00
429 Pittsburg ..........,.............
15.00
431 Alpha ............................. .
25.00
433 Hammonton ........... :......
5.00
434 Maricopa ....................... .
10.00
435 Fairmount ..................... .
5.00
438 Acacia ..............................
5.00
440 Standard ........................
5.00
441 Coronado ........................
10.00
447 Torrance ···················-···
5.00
448 Mount Diablo ............... .
5.00
449 Park ......................._...... .
15.00
460 Mount Oso ......................
10.00
461 Argonaut ........................
5.00
462 Paul Revere ····-·······-···
14.45
463 Morgan Hill ....................
10.00
466 Libertas ......................... .
20.00
467 Culver City ....................
5.00
468 Rockridge ......................
10.00
471 Delta ............................... .
10.00
477 Temblor ......................... .
15.00
478 Thousand Oaks ............
10.00
479 Golden Rule ..................
10.00
483 Bell ..................................
20.00
485 Chowchilla ................... .
17.50
486 Caledonia ........................
10.00
487 Vallejo ........................... .
5.00
489 East Bay ....................... .
5.00
491 Woodstock···················-·
10.00
493 Atascadero ....................
10.00
494 Acorn ..............................

No. Lodge
497
499
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
515
516
518
520
521
525
526
527
531
535
539
540
545
546
550
551
552
555
558
561
574
576
578
581
589
590
593
594
595
603
609
619
620
621
634
635
638
643
645
648
650
661
662
665
668
669
673
674
675

Amount

No.

Lodge

395
Amount

10.00 676 Willow Glen ..................
5.00
5.00
25.00 680 Carmel ............................
7.50
5.00 681 Dos Palos........................
5.00
10.00 686 Albany ............................
5.00
10.00 688 Oildale ............................
10.00
15.00 690 San Carlos......................
10.00
10.00 691 Indian Wells Valley......
15.00 711 Rim of the World..........
5.00
5.00
10.00 U.D. Estero ..............................
5.00
15.00 U.D. Mineral King ................
5.00
15.00
Total ..................................... .$3,575,77
10.00
I .
25.00
OnlC ···························'· ···
CHAPTERS. R. & A. M.
20.00
Piedmont ....................... .
No.
Chapter
5.00
Amt.
George Washington ......
10.00
Bay City ........................
2.50
$
·--6
-···-···-···-·········
10.00 Nevada
Covenant ........................
2.50
Grass Valley _......................18
5.00 · Petaluma
Alexandria ................... .
1.25
..............................22
Alexander Hamilton .... 182.50
5.00
27.27 Delta ·····---·······-·······-······..2'1
Belvedere ....................... .
5.00
15.00 Martinez ····-····-····-···········31
Queen Beach ................. .
5.00
···1'1
·········-·····-············
Siloam
.
5.00
.......................
Jonathan
2.50
..........................38
Cruz
Santa
.
10.00
San Gabriel ...................
12.50
···-"·
····-··-····-··-···Visalia
5.00
Seaport ........................... .
10.00
····--·"
5.00 Dixon ···············-······-·
Lak:eshore ......................
5.00
.............................62
10.00 Humboldt
Semper Virens ........: .... .
5.00
..............................56
10.00 Keystone
White Pine ................... .
2.50
········-·-··-···-····--·..60
10.00 Colusa
Point Firmin ................. .
2.50
Luis ..............................63
10.00 San
East San Diego................
5.00
St. Helena •...........................63
20.00 Doric
S. W. Hackett................. .
5.00
.............................:......66.
10.00
El Cajon Valley............ ..
2.50
···········-················67
34.00 Riverside
Progressive ................... .
5.00
....................•............•'72
5.00 Crown
Security ~--··-········-······-·.
37.50
.......•........................74
Hanford
25.00
.............................
Kauai
5.00
10.00 Pomona ................................70
Compass ......................... .
5.00
78
.
.........................•...
Ferndale
10.00
All States ........................
2.50
25.00 Calaveras ............................83
Service ........................... .
5.00
15.00 San Pedro ···········-····--······.89
Alexander Graham Bell
10.00 Palo Alto ·····-····-··-·············93
5.00
Dimond ........................... .
25.00 Fidelity ................................96
Provident ....................... .
5.00
10.00 San Gabriel ......................100
Neptune ......................... .
10.00
10.00
Point Loma ....................
5.00
The Gardens .................. ' 10.00 Redondo ·················-·········101
5.00
5.00 Marin ····-······················-···102
Victorville ..................... .
5.00
15.00 Mill Valley ........................108
Riverside ....................... .
5.00
10.00 El Centro ····-··················-109
Indian Rock ................... .
5.00
15.00 South Pasadena ................112
Alta Loma ..................... .
5.00
10.00 Coalinga ...•.......................•114
A. F. E. Irwin..................
5.00
5.00 Sebastopol ........................117
Damascus ....................... .
5.00
10.00 Hollywood ····-····-···········120
La Brea ........................... .
2.50
5.00 Huntington Park ..............127
Malta ............................... .
10.00
5.00 Inglewood ........................-131
Henry Knox ................. .
10.00
10.00 Searchlight ........................133
Kaweah ......................... .
5.00
10.00 San Fernando ..................136
San Gorgonio ............... .
5.00
5.00 Wilmington ......................141
John P. Jarman..............
2.50
5.00 Roseville ····-·········-····-····· lte
Far West ....................... .
Los Cerritos ................. . 100.00
5.00
Total ......................... ...................75
Modesto ..........................

Fremont·············-···········
Capital City ................. .
Roosevelt ....................... .
Harbor ............................
Point ............................... .
El Segundo ................... .
Cupertino ........................
Sunnyvale ......................
Cahuenga ....................... .
Argonne ......................... .
Vermont Square ..........
Taft ................................. .
La Jolla ..........................

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

COMMANDERIES. K. T.

ORDER OF JOB'S DAUGHTERS

Amt.
Commanderg
No.
Sacramento ····················-····2 $ 5.00
10.00
Oroville ·········-·········.:..............5
2.50
Nevada ·····················-···········6
5.00
Marysville ............................7
5.00
San Jose ···················-·-······10
5.00
Chico ......•.••...:-..- ......•..•.....12
7.50
Santa Rosa ..........................14
10.00
Ventura ................................18
5.00
Naval --··-··········-·········-···---19
7.50
St. Bernard ..........................23
2.50
Colusa .................. ..........24
12.50
Visalia ...........................- .....26
5.00
San Luis Obispo..................27
10.00
Pasadena ................- ...........31
10.00
Mt. Shasta ............................32
15.00
Ukiah ·--··-········---··········-··--·33
5.00
Eureka -·-····-···--····-····--·····35
10.00
Southern California ..........37
2.50
Santa Cruz ..........................44
5.00
Palo Alto ···-···-···--·····-······.47
10.00
Alhambra ·····---···············48
5.00
Auburn ··········-···---··---······52
Hollywood ..........................56
15.00
5.00
Alameda ..............................58
5.00
San Pedro ···-····-·················60
10.00
Calvary ................................62

No.
Amt.
Anaheim Bethel ..................5 $ 15.32
25.00
Los Angeles Bethel............30
Long Beach Bethel... .......109
5.00
Bethel ................................122
25.00

Total ..........................................$190.00
COUNCILS R. 8r: S. M.
Council
No.
Amt.
Sacramento ............................1 $ 5.00
Gateway ..............................13
5.00
Pasadena ..............................16
5.00
Santa Cruz •.................... ~....17
2.50
Alhambra ............................25
5.00
Pacific ..................................37
5.00
San Luis Obispo..................38
2.50

Amt.
George Hildebrand ......,.........$
2.33
Past Matrons Assn.
Bakersfield No. 300 ............. .
5.00
Ernest L. Cronemeyer............
50.00
Miquelito Circle ......................
5.00
John A. Brunton......................
5.00
E. H. Stevenson........................ 100.00
2.50
Francis M. Griffoz..............·-···
Stanley J. Fisher......................
25.00
2.50
Vernon C. Noble......................
25.00
Inglewood Kiwanis Club......
5.00
University Square Club........
Arthur M. Hair....................... . 100.00
Santa Barbara Pyramid
No. 34 Ancient Egyptian
50.00
Order of Sciots................... .
Santa Maria Assembly No. 92
10.00
0. of R.G.............................. .
George Washington Chapter
25.00
-DeMolay ............................
Santa Maria Chapter No. 552
10.00
-DeMolay •...........................
6.00
Mathew A. Eminger................
10.00
"633" Club ................................
50.00
Wesley Hancock ......................
2.50
Cleveland C. Cochran........... .
2.50
Liston 0. Allen........................
50.00
F. L. Stamey............................. .
25.00
Low Twelve Club................... .
12.00
H. Hoffmaster ..........................

Total .~.................................:•.$ 30.00
A. 8r: A. S. R.
Amt.
Fresno Lodge of Perfection......$ 50.00
California Lodge of Perfection 12.50
Oakland Lodge of Perfection.. 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ...................... 20.00
Sacramento Bodies .................... 12.50
Total ..........................................$120.00
DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATIONS
Amt.
420th District ..............................$ 10.00
568th District .............................. 25.00
608th District .............................. 20.30
614th District .............................. 40.00
628th District .............................. 100.00
Total ..........................................$195.30

•llt·

Total ··--···--···-····-····--·~·-··--.$ 70.32
CHAPTERS. O. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Leilani ·········--·······················8 $ 10.00
3.00
Aurora -··---····-··················-40
Mercedes ............................126
10.00
Jasmine ..............................145
21.00
7.50
Escondido ..........................154
Santa Clara ......................195
10.00
San Rafael ........................215
10.00
Mill Valley ........................219
10.00
Jewel ..................................238
10.00
Siloam ..........,.....................406
10.00
Melita ................................467
15.00
Orange Blossom ..............488
6.50
Total ........ ,.................................$123.00
MISCELLANEOUS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Enimetok Square &
Compass Club ..................... .
A. Denser ..................................
I. 0. Johnson........................... .
Cleveland C. Cochran ............
S. E. Moyes............................... .
Harvey W. Werner..................
Irma Rhodes ............................
Star Sunshine Club............... .
Everett Hale Shapiro............. .
Natalie Bistagne ................... .
Joseph H. Huskey................... .
Alvin M. Baraghman............. .
Charles Bozelle ..................... .

50.00
2.00
5.00
2.50
25.00
2.50
25.00
60.00
2.50
5.00
6.00
6.00
10.00

Masonic Cable Club,
Lowe-Wells Co .................. .
Unity Assembly No. 650,
0. of R.G...............................
Associated In-Group Donors
Hughes "Give-Once" Club... .
Robert F. Gragg......................
Covina Rotary Club................
Ed Carey ..... :............................
Wimodauses Club ..................
Anon...........•.............................

397
73.98
10.00
2.81
100.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Total ......................................$1,013.62

HOMES STATISTICS
NUMBER OF RESIDENTS AS OF JULY 31, 1953
Decoto Home:
Men Women
Residents, August 1, 1952.............................. 115
174
Admitted .......................................................... 25
32
Died and Withdrawn .................................... 29
25
Residents, July 31, 1953.................................. 111
181
Covina Home:
Boys Girls
29
Residents, August l, 1952.............................. 33
Admitted ..........................................................
7
1
Graduated and Withdrawn ..........................
4
2
Residents, July 31, 1953.................................. 36
28

Total
289
57
54
292
Total
62
8
6
64

PER CAPITA CosT

Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal Year
Ending July 31, 1953
Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance ........................................................ $363,330.35
Average number of residents............................................
290
Average operating cost per month.................................... 30,277.53
Average cost per day........................................................
1,009.25
Average cost per resident per year....................................
1,252.86
Average cost per resident per month................................
104.40
Average cost per resident per day..................................
3.48
Average number of employees...................:....................
104
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance.......................................................... $155,193.10
Average number of residents............................................
63
Average operating cost per month.................................... 12,932.76
431.09
· Average cost per day........................................................
Average cost per child per year........................................
2,463.38
Average cost per child per month ...................................~
205.28
Average cost per child per day........................................
6.84
Average number of employees......................... ~..............
29

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

398

I

ANNUAL

CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL FUNDS
COVINA SPECIAL FUND
Estate of Nellie S. Meyers..........................................................$ 4,149.88
" " Mildred D. Holbert......................................................
300.00
" Jam es K. Fisk.................:..............................................
100.00
35.60
" Alice M. Mcintosh ............... ,......................................
379.73
Edison Masonic Club......,.................................~······;···········-·····
568th Masonic District Officers Association............................
30.00
L T Pockman...............................................................................
20.00
E sta~e of Grace E. Miller............................................................ 1,000.00
The Westerners .......................................................................... 1,000.00
Gladys F. Bowyer........................................................................
500.~0
Estate of Anie Gray .................................................................... 31,348. 0
" L. M. McAlpine............................................................ 1,000.00
.. Madison T. Owens ...................................................~- 14,202.97
" William E. Bartlett...................................................... 15,878.59
" William A. Mcintosh.................................................. 1.949.15
" James R. Deakins, Sr...................................................
100.00
" Mary T. Lykins................................... -······················· 2,500.00
" Harry I. Bayers...................................·-······················
190.00
" Beatrice M. Potter........................................................ 8,068.09
25.00
D. C. Freeman (Mrs. Gilmore)·······:··········································
0

DECOTO SPECIAL FUND
100.00
Estate of James K. Fisk............................. -·································
1.000.00
" Karl Wolbach ·····························•·····-·························
100.00
" James R. Deakins, Sr ...........................·-·····················
2.500.00
" Mary T. Lykins ...................................·-······················
200.00
" Walter A. Hesse......................•.•.............. _.................
RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Estate of William H. S. Owen...............................•.................... 21,079.09
.. .. George S. Kaller............................................................ 1,000.00
" Morris Buckhantz .......................................•................
500.00
'' '' Thomas Angus ...........................................................................
500.00
" John Smyth .................................................................. 1,254.79
.. Tonningson ····························································•····· 2,984.68
.. E. E. Northrup..............................................................
160.00
.. F. E. Ryder..................................................................:.
477.90
" E. E. Northrup..............................................................
25.00
.. E. E. Northrup.............................................................. 1,940.00
.. Andrews ··········································-··························
607 .59
" Robert F. Manthei. ....................................................... 29,867.08
••

'' Robert F. Mal1thel...............................................................

25.60

No.
1
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
,19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68
'10
'16
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91

Lodge

California ..........................
Western Star ....................
Tehama ...........................................
Benicia ···················-·········
Tuolumne ........................
Corinthian ........................
San Jose ............................
Yount
Nevada..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Temple ..............................
Eureka
La Parfaite.uDi-o~··:::::::::
Mountain Shade ..............
San Joaquin ·-·················
Washington ......................
Hawaiian ............................................
Occidental ...................................
Madison
Mariposa ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::
Georgetown ....................
El Dorado ..........................
Trinity ······-···········-·········
Golden Gate ···-··-··-·······
Gold Hill ..........................
Ophir ............................_............
San Diego ........................_..............
Howard ..............................._.........
Santa Cruz .................._....
Sacramento ..................................
Martinez .........................................
Los Angeles ·············-······· ·
Hiram ·······················-·······
Mount Moriah ......................._...
Crescent ............................
Texas ............................ _...._______
Forbestown ············-··-··
Illinoistown ·················--·
Suisun·-····················-·······
Volcano ·-··············-····-···
Santa Rosa ·······-·····-···-···
Union --·-·······-····-···-··-····
Gravel Range ..................
Plumas ...................................................
Live Oak ..........................
Natoma·····················-·······'
Amador ...........................................
Forest
Morning··s·i;r··::::::::::::::::::
Enterprise ..........................................
Bear Mountain ................
Calaveras ..........................
Humboldt .........................................
Ione ....................................
Yolo ....................................
Vesper --------·····--·--··········
Naval ...........................................
Rose's Bar ........................
North Star ........................
93 St. Helena ........................

399

RETURNS-1953
Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Grand
Lodge
Home& Contribution Contrib.
$1,178.40
$ 402.00 $ 300.00 $ 11.00
116.25
11.00
358.25
275.00
603.00
1,025.00
40.00
1,851.60
169.50
250.00
10.00
518.90
6.00
179.25
175.00
523.85
325.50
550.00
22.00
985.10
402.00
400.00
16.00
1,196.85
825.00
389.25
30.00
1,192.85
123.00
125.00
4.00
365.60
159.75
150.00
6.00
474.95
400.00
248.25
16.00
751.65
87.00
125.00
4.00
256.40
37.50
109.50
600.00
1,175.00
46.00
1,836.00
1,250.00
627.00
49.00
1,948.40
200.00
7.00 .
347.25
1,020.45
225.00
9.00
524.25
1,530.85
238.50
300.00
12.00
711.70
150.75
434.15
. 2.00
50.00
131.00
45.00
4.00
193.50
100.00
579.70
75.00
3.00
104.25
310.85
375.00
14.00
1,442.20
486.00
86.25
150.00
6.00
263.25
50.00
2.00
54.00
160.80
42.00
1,200.00
2,297.95
759.75
183.00
150.00
6.00
547.60
18.00
550.00
1,151.35
381.75
1,075.00
43.00
563.25
1,731.65
14.00
350.00
296.25
889.25
1,050.00
40.00
566.25
1,725.25
7.00
73.50
175.00
320.75
14.00
303.75
400.00
909.75
18.00
450.00
146.25
477.25
40.50
118.10
175.00
6.00
81.00
250.20
25.00
1.00
68.25
200.65
12.00
325.00
546.10
175.50
15.00
375.00
61.50
211.30
35.00
925.00
1,442.90
469.50
525.00
21.00
535.50
1,598.10
3.00
75.00
48.00
144.60
1.00
25.00
153.75
443.75
18.00
475.00
756.00
2,242.20
37.00
925.00
189.75
649.95
3.00
75.00
61.50
183.30
19.50
55.90
875.00
35.00
483.75
1,461.75
20.00
550.00
259.50
793.90
4.00
100.00
56.25
174.25
3.00
75.00
87.00
260.40
925.00
35.00
367.50
1,157.50
2.00
65.25
50.00
191.05
4.00
125.00
72.00
223.40
5.00
125.00
177.00
520.40
36.00
925.00
886.50
2,655.30
3.00
75.00
24.75
79.95
2.00
50.00
42.75
130.55
6.00
150.00
97.50
298.50

No.

GRAND LODGE.OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

400
Lodge

95 Henry Clay -···········-··-···
98 Hornitos ·-·························
99 Yosemite ·-····-···-···········
101 Clay ·······-····-···················
103 Oroville ---····-··----··-·
104 Lexington --·········-···--·
106 Arcata ·-··--··········-····-··110 Pajaro ····-··-············-··111 Chico ---·-····-······-··--·····
112 Sutnmit --··-··-···-·-··-113 Eden -··--··-····-·---117 Concord .........................120 Fidelity _..........................
122 Alamo --·-···-····--···-··-·
123 Sotoyome -----··--··--··-·
124 Table Mountain ·····-···-126 Lafayette ·······-··-··-··--···
127 Hermann ·······-··--··-·····
128 Visalia -·-··········-··-··129 Nicolaus ---·---·---131 Woodbridge ·····-····--··-···
132 Sincerity ..........................
134 Vacaville -·····-······-·····-··
135 Valley ----·-··---··--··136 Pacific ----···-····-··-··--·
139 Crockett ·-··-··········--····-·
140 Curtis ................................
141 Grafton ·-··-····-··--·······
143 Franklin --·-······-··----·
144 Oriental ·---··-····-145 Vitruvius -···-········--146 Abell ·····-······-········-··-147 Eel River ·-··-·····-···-··-·
149 Lassen -··-····-··--···
150 Molino --····-··--·-··
156 Woodland -········--·······161 Keystone ..........................
164 Harmony -··-··············-···

166 Excelsior ..........................
167 Alameda -········----····168 R':d'Y'ood City-···-··--·-·
169 MlSSlon -·············-····--···
173 Elk Grove ·- ·········-··-·174 Drytown ---·----·--175 Antioch -··-···-··-----·
178 Phoenix -····-··-····-····-···
179 Mendocino ·-··--···----·180 Petaluma ..........................
181 Russian River -··---···
182 Arbuckle ·-··--·--·--···183 Clear Lake ........................
184 Sierra Valley ....................
185 Claiborne -····-··-···-··186 Evening Star ·-·--··--187 Keith ..................................
188 Oakland ·····-······-··--··-···
190 Northern Light ................
191 Marin ·····················-········
192 Santa Barbara - · 193 Ferndale -·--·-----

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Grand
Homes Contribution Contrib.
Lodge
4.00
100.00
61.50
187.30
5.00
125.00
75.75
230.15
25.00
625.00
362.25
1,120.45
5.00
125.00
72.00
220.40
9.00
225.00
259.50
773.90
26.00
700.00
421.50
1,268.30
19.00
500.00
243.00
765.60
18.00
500.00
299.25
905.85
34.00
875.00
384.00
1,212.80
32.25
92.45
26.00
725.00
327.75
1,016.55
16.00
400.00
273.75
830.75
16.00
425.00
414.75
1,230.95
25.00
650.00
315.75
991.15
10.00
375.00
148.50
456.70
12.00
350.00
151.50
472.30
6.00
175.00
165.50
486.70
4.00
125.00
155.25
455.05
14.00
350.00
408.75
1,224,75
3.00
75.00
78.75
232.75
8.00
200.00
128.25
383.65
3.00
75.00
75.00
224.00
7.00
175.00
165.00
495.00
1.00
. 25.00
71.25
205.25
12.00
300.00
426.00
1,250.20
16.00
400.00
423.00
1,250.60
4.00
100.00
58.50
184.70
2.00
50.00
84.00
244.80
7.00
175.00
102.00
305.40
16.00
450.00
283.50
849.70
2.00
50.00
94.50
276.90
19.00
475.00
226.50
696.30
7.00
175.00
186.75
564.35
10.00
300.00
176.25
543.25
1.00
50.00
119.25
344.85
15.00
400.00
211.50
641.30
21.75
62.35
1.00
25.00
18.75
57.75
6.00
175.00
348.75
1,017.75
3.00
100.00
137.25
411.45
29.00
800.00
441.75
1,378.35
. 17.00
450.00
510.00
1,517.00
2.00
50.00
100.50
301.10
4.00
100.00
40.50
132.10
11.00
325.00
248.25
749.65
25.00
625.00
483.75
1,455.75
3.00
75.00
89.25
263.85
5.00
125.00
258.00
765.60
8.00
225.00
90.00
272.00
5.00
125.00
64.50
197.90
10.00
300.00
66.00
218.20
1.00
25.00
30.00
89.00
3.00
75.00
48.75
145.75
5.00
125.00
42.00
131.40
4.00
100.00
130.50
383.10
31.00
775.00
704.25
2,105.85
1.00
25.00
63.75
189.75
12.00
300.00
405.00
1,200.00
9.00
250.00
253.50
758.70
5.00
125.00
77.25
236.45

No.

Lodge

194 Mountain View ..............
195 Buckeye ............................
196 San Simeon ......................
198 Wilmington ......................

199 Hartley --················-··-·····
Truckee ............................
Silveyville ........................
Pentalpha ........................
Confidence ........................
Salinas ···········-······---··-·
Olivet ····················-·--···Stanislaus ........................
Anaheim ...............•..........
Rio Vista ..........................
~i?g Dayid's ....................
riendsh1p ........................
San Benito ........................
S. San Francisco..............
214 San Buenaventura ..........
215 Oak Grove ···················-···
216 Doric ·······-··········-··---···
217 Monterey ..........................
218 Mosaic ..............................
219 Speranza Italiana ..........
220 Downey ............................
221 Inyo·······-········-··-·· -·--·
222 Roseville ..........................
224 Bakersfield ......................
225 Brooklyn ..........................
226 San Mateo ....................... .
228 Athens ..............................
229 Solano ................................
230 North Butte ..................... .
231 Covelo •.............................
232 Janesville ··········-····-··233 Calistoga ·...............~---··234 Hope ..................................
235 Surprise Valley ..............
236 Hills Ferry ........................
237 Guadalupe ........................
240 Colusa ................................
241 Santa Ana ......................_
242 Magnolia ..........................
243 Eucalyptus ···········-··-·······
244 Alcatraz -·--···-····-··--···
245 Laurel ........:. .......................
246 Pomona ···············-···-······
247 Fresno .........................•.....•
248 Alturas ................................
250 A din -················-···-·--253 Landmark ........................
254 Reading ............................
255 Welcome ..........................
256 Lodi ....................................
258 Penrhyn ·-····-··-··-·---···
259 Evergreen ·················--···
260 King Solomon's ..............
261 Tuscan ···············-··-··-··-·
262 Lompoc ·-··--····-···---···
264 Hesperian ·····-·-·- ·

200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212

Grand
Lodge
774.30
309.85
209.80
1,347.95
527.25
273.65
340.95
1,177.25
110.50
1,308.45
291.75
1,450.25
1,007.85
352.40
938.50
1,592.25
352.00
547.75
927.15
1,371.55
1,079.75
630.20
431.05
641.40
1,472.95
357.45
889.80
1,815.35
1,294.00
1,251.40
366.30
1,237.55
484.35
129.55
380.75
264.85
· 285.60
168.95
342.80
375.90
366.85
1,317.35
943.20
1,081.90
1,420.95
543.85
893.80
1,601.35
457.35
242.90
246.95
477.80
450.60
847.75
316.15
1,455.75
1,055.35
201.50
420.75
825.90

401

Muonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
14.00
375.00
256.50
4.00
125.00
104.25
6.00
150.00
69.00
29.00
444.75
800.00
8.00
200.00
176.25
9.00
83.25
225.00
5.00
125.00
114.75
8.00
200.00
401.25
1.00
25.00
37.50
38.00
975.00
422.25
6.00
150.00
93.75
26.00
675.00
476.25
19.00
475.00
329.25
6.00
150.00
117.00
19.00
525.00
307.50
21.00
550.00
536.25
5.00
125.00
120.00
8.00
225.00
183.75
24.00
625.00
300.75
14.00
350.00
462.75
14.00
375.00
363.75
24.00
600.00
201.00
14.00
350.00
140.25
222.00
65.00
1,725.00
459.75
1.00
25.00
122.25
29.00
775.00
279.00
27.00
800.00
606.75
18.00
450.00
435.00
36.00
1,075.00
402.00
4.00
125.00
121.50
13.00
350.00
417.75
11.00
275.00
156.75
4.00
100.00
42.75
7.00
175.00
123.75
3.00
75.00
89.25
8.00
200.00
93.00
4.00
100.00
54.75
6.00
175.00
114.00
7.00
175.00
124.50
12.00
300.00
119.25
18.00
525.00
441.75
22.00
650.00
306.00
30.00
800.00
349.50
19.00
475.00
474.75
12.00
300.00
179.25
20.00
500.00
294.00
23.00
625.00
531.75
18.00
450.00
141.75
7.00
175.00
79.50
2.00
50.00
84.75
8.00
200.00
159.00
5.00
200.00
153.00
9.00
250.00
288.75
4.00
100.00
105.75
21.00
625.00
483.75
14.00
375.00
351.75
2.00
75.00
67.50
7.00
225.00
138.75
13.00
350.00
274.50

402

{;RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
265 Orland ·-····-··-······-·········
266 North East·····-········-···-·
267 Galt ···········-···-·····-··-·······
268 Durant ·-················-·········
269 Olive Branch ......•.........••
271 Snow Mountain ..••.........•
272 Pasadena ..........•••.............
273 Anchor ....•....•........••..........
274 Arroyo ···················-·········
275 Oakdale ············-·········-··
277 Selma ···················-····-·····
278 So. California ·······-·········
279 Hanford -·················-····-·
280 Madera ···················-··-·····
281 Mount Shasta ······-········282 Calayomi ···················-·····
283 South West ......•.....•...••.•..
285 San Miguel ·····-···-··········
286 Paso Robles .....•••..•......•..••
287 Winnedumah ······-··········
288 Maxwell-•....•..••.......•........
289 Elsinore ·············-·······-···
290 East Gate ·······-······-··-···
291 Santa Paula ················-··
292 Los Gatos ••....•..•....••..........
293 Orange Grove ·····-···········
294 Traver ·-···························
295 Mt. Jackson·············-·······
296 Silver Gate ···········-·····-··
297 Dunsmuir •....••....•••...•••...•
299 Liberty ···················-·········
300 Redlands ·················-·······
301 Ontario ···················----···
302 Santa Lucia ...........•.•..•...••
303 Porterville •.....•.....••..•.•..•••
304 Reedley ················-·····-···
305 Azusa ................................
306 Ashlar···························-···
307 Santa Monica .......•.•.•......
308 Monrovia ·······················-·
309 Delano ···················-·······310 Sisson ·-······················-·····
312 Los Banos .•......•...•.•.....•...
313 Tehachapi ·····-······-·········
314 Temescal ············-··········315 Norwalk ···········-······-·······
316 Sanger ·······-·····················
317 Fallbrook ···········-······-··
318 Emanuel ....•.....•..•...•••...•.•••
319 Hollenbeck ·····-···-·····-···
320 South Gate •......••.•.•.........
321 Alisal ···························-···
322 Alhambra ·········-···-····-···
323 Whittier ·-····-···················
324 Corona ·············-···-···-···
325 Consuelo ·······-····-······-···
326 Needles·············-·············
327 Long Beach ·······-········-···
328 Redondo ···········-··-··-··-···
329 Vallee de France ...........•

Grand
Lodge
351.55
128.40
188.45
1,150.30
698.35
97.60
1,232.85
1,322.45
397.05
421.50
535.95
1,076.90
483.65
590.30
243.00
155.75
1,068.70
149.45
582.40
546.60
158.65
316.90
1,718.55
850.90
720.55
600.60
365.10
300.80
2,967.85
653.10
709.10
956.90
971.10
380.55
1,067.55
370.60
611.65
643.30
868.75
659.25
506.90
237.90
340.95
495.80
505.75
651.15
746.50
367.25
190.30
2,246.35
1,320.30
351.50
1,439.05
1,622.25
1,028.00
594.75
765.20
1,340.55
1,295.15
264.00

Muonic $25.00 Homea $1G.W.
Homea Contribution Contrib.
5.00
125.00
117.75
2.00
75.00
42.00
3.00
75.00
62.25
7.00
200.00
391.50
12.00
300.00
231.75
1.00
25.00
33.00
30.00
825.00
404.25
35.00
1,125.00
422.25
15.00
375.00
125.25
6.00
150.00
142.50
12.00
300.00
174.75
12.00
350.00
364.50
12.00
300.00
158.25
12.00
300.00
196.50
11.00
275.00
75.00
6.00
175.00
48.75
39.00
1,100.00 .
343.50
6.00
150.00
47.25
11.00
300.00
192.00
19.00
500.00
168.00
2.00
50.00
53.25
2.00
50.00
109.50
18.00
525.00
582.75
22.00
600.00
274.50
12.00
300.00
237.75
13.00
350.00
198.00
12.00
300.00
115.50
6.00
150.00
99.00
67.00
1,950.00
959.25
9.00
250.00
220.50
14.00
350.00
235.50
17.00
450.00
319.50
27.00
800.00
310.50
17.00
425.00
117.75
15.00
400.00
357.75
6.00
150.00
123.00
6.00
200.00
203.25
12.00
325.00
211.50
16.00
650.00
288.75
11.00
325.00
221.25
9.00
225.00
169.50
4.00
100.00
79.50
7.00
175.00
114.75
12.00
300.00
159.00
8.00
275.00
168.75
15.00
450.00
210.75
11.00
275.00
247.50
13.00
350.00
116.25
4.00
125.00
61.50
23.00
575.00
756.75
12.00
350.00
451.50
11.00
325.00
112.50
14.00
400.00
485.25
30.00
775.00
536.25
14.00
425.00
345.00
7.00
225.00
198.75
4.00
125.00
261.00
20.00
500.00
447.75
53.00
1,450.00
405.75
3.00
100.00
90.00

No.

Lodge

~~~ Kilauea ·-··-·-··-··-··-··-

332 Pacific Grove -·····-··-·····
San Pedro ·····-···-·········333 Alta
-·········-···········-···-···
334 Covina ···················-······-·
335 West Gate ·············-··-·····
336 Fruitvale ···-··········-····-···
~~~ Carquinez ··········-·····-·····
San Jacinto ······-··-·····-··
339 Fullerton ···········-·········-··
341 Oxnard ·······················-·····
343 San Fernando ···········--···
344 Starr King·-····-···---~---·
345 Brentwood·····-···-··········346 Palo Alto -···-···-····-··-·347 McKinley •........................•
348 San Bernardino ·-···········
349 Sequoia ·········-·················
351 Palestine ·············-···-····352 Sunset -···-··········-··--·······
353 Pinole ···········-··········-·······
354 Presidio ···················-·····355 Hollywood ·····--··-······:.•••
356 Mill Valley ···········-····-···
357 Buena Park ••.....••.••..•...•.••
358 Golden State .••....•••••••.•..•.
359 Loyalton ·····················-···
360 San Francisco ···········-·····
361 Fort Bragg ·····-··············-·
362 Charity .•....••..•••.....•.•..•••...•
363 Berkeley ·-····-·················
365 Willits ................................
366 Las Palmas ..•...••....•••...•..•
367 South Pasadena ........•.....
368 Unity ..:...............·-··-·······
369 Ocean Park·-····-··-·-····370 Amity ·-···-··-······--····-·371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
372 Gardena ·················-·········
373 West Los Angeles·····--·
374 Jewel ..............................••
375 Richmond ·····-·················
376 Francis Drake ····-····-···377 Artesia ·····--··-··-·-378 Mizpah ················-·····-·····
379 Fillmore ···············-··-··-380 Huntington Beach-···-···
381 Oceanside - · · - - - 382 Highland Park -··---···
383 Orosi ······-··--··-·-384 El Centro -··-···--·--·385 Dinuba ·-··-··-·--·
387 Coalinga -··-··-··-··-··
388 Parnassus - · - · · - - · 389 Palos Verdes·-··--··-390 Imperial----···~-391 East Belt - · - - - 392 West Lake -··-··--393 Balder -····-··----·394 University--·---

Grand
Lodge
506.05
573.55
1,136.75
214.10
780.20
2,364.75
1,897.70
447.15
229.75
843.15
874.95
1,306.85
1,154.15
310.70
1,642.65
1,111.65
1,631.75
2,372.35
1,341.55
815.35
349.85
1,130.65
2,726.30
990.15
571.40
1,795.80
213.40
680.20
316.25
347.50
1,436.60
363.85
2,328.30
1,345.55
1,410.40
1,153.35
1,557.00
971.15
868.30
950.10
434.95
1,154.05
830.70
419.25
949.50
523.85
720.70
950.70
1,451.65
330.30
1,012.70
674.10
893.40
1,699.55
1,493.55
274.45
196.20
1,987.35
1,120.00
1,354.20

403

Masonic $25.00 Homea $1G.W.
Homea Contribution Contrib.
170.25
250.00
8.00
192.75
250.00
9.00
378.75
425.00
16.00
70.50
125.00
5.00
246.00
800.00
29.00
783.75
1,300.00
48.00
643.50
500.00
20.00
150.75
175.00
6.00
78.75
50.00
2.00
285.75
150.00
5.00
294.75
250.00
7.00
419.25
950.00
36.00
390.75
375.00
14.00
103.50
125.00
5.00
548.25
650.00
24.00
368.25
450.00
18.00
528.75
975.00
37.00
801.75
600.00
24.00
447.75
600.00
22.00
276.75
275.00
10.00
119.25
50.00
2.00
383.25
375.00
14.00
916.50
1,075.00
31.00
330.75
325.00
10.00
177.00
500.00
20.00
609.00
475.00
19.00
72.00
50.00
2.00
231.00
100.00
4.00
101.25
200.00
8.00
112.50
225.00
9.00
483.00
425.00
17.00
119.25
200.00
8.00
766.50
1,325.00
51,00
447.75
550.00
21.00
462.00
675.00
28.00
381.75
500.00
18.00
525.00
450.00
17.00
330.75
250.00
6.00
271.50
750.00
29.00
700.00
310.50
22.00
175.00
144.75
7.00
395.25
175.00
7.00
268.50
21.00
550.00
450.00
131.25
17.00
322.50
175.00
7.00
179.25
3.00
75.00
14.00
350.00
238.50
32.00
1,000.00
298.50
18.00
488.25
500.00
10.00
250.00
106.50
31.00
775.00
328.50
12.00
220.50
300.00
15.00
400.00
297.00
24.00
675.00
567.75
16.00
425.00
507.75
5.00
125.00
92.25
3.00
75.00
66.00
9.00
275.00
681.75
17.00
425.00
375.00
16.00
450.00
456.00

404
No.
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge

Turlock ·······-····-··-··-Apollo ···········-······-····-·-Rising Light ·············-·····
Fraternity ····-···········-·····
Burlingame ···········--····Bay View ..........................
Brawley ···················-·······
Yerba Buena ....................
Glendora ·············-···········
Moneta ..............................
Burbank -··-·····-···-··--·
La Mesa -····-··-··--··-··
Sierra Madre ·-········--···
Honolulu -····-··-·-····-··-·
Charter Roclt ···········-··-·
Perris ·················-···-···-···
Calexico ·················-·····Arlington ···········-······-···Silver Trowel ·-···-··---·
Lindsay ···-····-·····-··--·Clovis ·····-···············--···Elysian ·········-···················
Upland ·············-··--··-···
Kerman ···················-·······
Inglewood ·-··········-··-··Eagle Rock ·-····-·-··-·
York ··················-···--··-Exeter ·······-····-··-····-·····
Holtville ..........................
Midway ··················-········
Chino Valley ....................
San Dimas ........................
Pittsburg ···-·········-·····McCloud ......................... .
Alpha ·····-··-····-··-··--·- .
Hammonton ···············-···
Maricopa ···-·····················
Fairmount ·········-········-···
Claremont ··············-········
Lancaster ·········-······-··Acacia ····-··-······---··-··
Tyrian ·········-··-····-··-··-·

Standard ··············-··-·····
Coronado ···············-·········
Blackmer ········-····-·······Schofield ·········-··-·-··-·Carpinteria ·········-··-··-·Wilshire ·····-··-··-··-··-·La Puente ··-··-·-··-····-·
Torrance ···················-··-·
Mount Diablo ·······-·········
Park ·····-··-········-···········Van Nuys ····-···-··--··-···
Montebello ·············-··-···
San Pasqual ·········-····-··
Bethlehem ····-··-····---···
Crocker ·····-··-····-······-···
Golden West ···············-···
R8lllona ···-····-····-··-··-···
Henry S. Orme ····-··-··-

Grand
Lodge
881.05
1,017.40
2,294.10
986.20
1,546.55
1,455.80
535.90
2,057.20
343.50
1,501.30
1,693.00
1,344.80
357.10
906.30
731.40
323.30
336.10
746.85
845.85
466.95
1,045.80
975.00
501.75
288.60
1,659.75
1,166.55
799.75
498.85
320.15
1,085.75
318.00
365.05
718.50
224.85
1,117.00
142.15
420.15
1,055.90
249.95
770.70
114.95
438.90
768.60
945.75
2,859.55
648.75
278.00
1,231.35
396.90
1,033.75
797.25
1,049.55
2,008.55
1,364.95
1,184.50
609.00
895.85
1,287.45
1,152.00
1,486.45

Masonic $25.00 Home&
Home&
Contribution
290.25
450.00
342.00
300.00
760.50
1,275.00
336.00
175.00
507.75
950.00
474.00
850.00
169.50
525.00
681.00
950.00
112.50
250.00
511.50
350.00
540.00
1,250.00
414.00
1,725.00
115.50
300.00
301.50
375.00
252.00
100.00
106.50
100.00
115.50
25.00
254.25
150.00
284.25
250.00
159.75
100.00
339.00
575.00
330.00
200.00
163.50
400.00
93.00
125.00
543.75
825.00
387.75
450.00
258.75
450.00
164.25
375.00
105.75
175.00
363.75
500.00
105.00
175.00
125.25
50.00
232.50
550.00
74.25 .
150.00
375.00
450.00
45.75
75.00
135.75
200.00
349.50
475.00
84.75
50.00
238.50
825.00
39.75
25.00
139.50
400.00
258.00
200.00
303.75
675.00
942.75
1,825.00
198.75
775.00
90.00
275.00
411.75
400.00
124.50
450.00
1,050.00
318.75
251.25
750.00
250.00
357.75
2,275.00
627.75
444.75
975.00
1,025.00
382.50
210.00
50.00
325.00
299.25
300.00
437.25
800.00
375.00
497.25
475.00

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$1G.W.
Contrlb.
18.00
11.00
46.00
6.00
35.00
34.00
17.00
35.00
9.00
13.00
42.00
65.00
10.00
13.00
3.00
4.00
1.00
5.00
9.00
4.00
23.00
8.00
13.00
5.00
30.00
18.00
18.00
14.00
7.00
20.00
6.00
2.00
20.00
5.00
15.00
3.00
8.00
18.00
2.00
31.00
1.00
15.00
8.00
26.00
64.00
31.00
10.00
15.00
17.00
41.00
28.00
10.00
82.00
36.00
36.00
2.00
13.00
12.00
29.00
18.00

No.
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
1519

Lodge

Riverbank ··············-········
Mount Oso ........................
Argonaut ·········-····-··-··Paul Revere ···········--···
Morgan Hill ....................
Alta Vista ·····-·······-···-···
Center ··············-·········-··
Libertas ····-···-····-······-···
Culver City ·····-··-······-·Rockridge ·················--·Yorba Linda ·····-·-··-··Lincoln ····-·······-··--··-··
Delta ·········-···-··-··-Maui ·························--·····
Blythe ·······················-·····
Victory ·····················-·······
America ............................
Coachella ···············-·······
Temblor ............................
Thousand Oaks ..............
Golden Rule ....................
Fellowship ·····-······-·······
Mt. Davidson ..................
Clarence F. Smith ..........
Bell ....................................
Albert Pike ·········--··-·····Chowchilla ···········-··--···
Caledonia ........................
Vallejo ..............................
Patterson ........................
East Bay ..........................
Corcoran ·······················-·
Woodstock ····-···········--·
Garvanza :.........................
Atascadero ......................
Acorn ................................
Lebanon ............................
Fremont ............................
Stockton ···--·-········-····-·
Capital City -·-·-··-·Roosevelt -·--··-···--····Westwood -······--··-···
Harbor ·········--····-···-·····
Point·····-··················-·······
Seaside ..............................
Silver Cord ·········-···········
Mount Olive ········-·········
El Segundo --·-··-··---···
Joppa ····-··-···-········-·····
Benj8lllin Franklin ........
Cupertino ........................
Sunnyvale ···············-·······
Palms ·······················-·······
Cahuenga ........................
Argonne ·····-·-··-·······--·
Vermont Square ···--·····
Taft ···············-············-·····
Mount Vernon·········-·····
La Jolla ............................
Euclid .:................·-··-··-···

Grand
Lodge
327.75
709.50
948.60
1,356.20
·362.30
579.75
1,215.70
1,422.75
819.40
1,078.60
351.25
764.90
1,106.80
520.85
309.15
643.35
1,066.75
468.75
363.25
1,138.85
1,418.35
737.35
910.30
821.05
1,526.25
581.70
387.35
1,159.90
867.35
287.30
889.80
288.90
925.25
719.25
284.45
1,404.55
917.70
1,195.75
424.35
1,231.50
488.25
628.70
1,289.80
678.05
1,123.70
1,049.65
2,193.10
832.85
194.75
802.00
408.40
752.15
1,021.20
1,267.60
847.90
1,183.10
711.40
494.15
752.95
900.65

405

Mawnic $25.00 Homu $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
108.75
200.00
7.00
232.50
425.00
17.0C>
318.00
12.00
300.00
456.00
450.00
17.00
121.50
200.00
6.00
198.75
25.00
1.00
403.50
450.00
17.00
468.75
700.00
23.00
267.00
600.00
24.00
200.00
363.00
8.00
116.25
175.00
7.00
175.00
259.50
7.00
300.00
369.00
11.00
179.25
50.00
1.00
150.00
105.75
4.00
200.00
216.75
8.00
125.00
363.75
5.00
153.75
275.00
10.00
116.25
10.00
250.00
374.25
20.00
550.00
471.75
21.00
550.00
246.75
11.00
275.00
17.00
425.00
301.50
10.00
250.00
275.25
42.00
1,150.00
491.25
193.50
11.00
300.00
150.00
126.75
6.00
23.00
600.00
379.50
9.00
225.00
291.75
9.00
250.00
91.50
18.00
450.00
294.00
3.00
100.00
94.50
13.00
325.00
311.25
17.00
475.00
236.25
9.00
225.00
92.25
31.00
462.75
775.00
23.00
600.00
298.50
28.00
700.00
393.75
6.00
150.00
141.75
32.00
397.50
850.00
9.00
225.00
161.25
9.00
225.00
208.50
15.00
375.00
429.00
17.00
450.00
215.25
23.00
373.50
675.00
12.00
425.00
353.25
20.00
525.00
745.50
20.00
269.25
500.00
5.00
125.00
63.75
7.00
270.00
175.00
7.00
132.00
175.00
22.00
240.75
550.00
18.00
336.00
550.00
625.00
20.00
423.00
7.00
289.50
175.00
375.00
15.00
400.50
300.00
12.00
237.00
200.00
8.00
165.75
234.75
900.00
28.00
293.25
550.00
22.00

406
No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge

520 Ionic ·······················--··-·.521 Piedmont ····-··-···············
522 Sunrise ·····-······-··-··-···-523 Bellflower ........................
524 Catalina Island··············525
526
527 Covenant ..........................
528 Beverly Hills ·····-··--529 Loyalty --------530 Sun Garden ····-···-···-·-·
531 Alexandria ···········-·········
532 Smyrna ···---···-··-··-·-·
533 Azure ................................
534 Forest Hill ·················-·····
535 Alexander Hamilton ......
536 Seal Rock ·········-···-···-··537 Utopia ·························-···
538 Ascot·················-···············
539 Belvedere ·····-············-···
540 Queen Beach ·········-··-··-·
541 Henry Morse Stephens..
542 Lankershim ......................
543 Signal ···--··················- ··544 Glendale ·····-······--··--545 Jonathan ·····-··-···---·····
546 San Gabriel ·····-·-··547 Arcadia ····-··-····-··-·-·
548 Triangle ···············-··-··-·549 Justice ·····-··········-··---·· ·
550 Seaport ···--············-·········
551 Lakeshore ···-············-·····
552 Semper Virens ··············554 Educator ······-···-····-···-··
555 White Pine -···-··-······-·556 Fairfax ·····················-··-···
557 Hermosa ........................•.
558 Point Firmin ·········-··-·····
559 Craftsmen ···-··-··-··--···
560 Plymouth ················-·······
561 East San Diego ·····-·········
562 Pyramid ·····-··-··········-···563 South Park ·····-········-····· .
564 Foothill ·-··-··-········-·······
565 West Adams ....................
566 James A. Garfield···-···567 Searchlight ·········-···········
568 Park Boulevard ..............
569 Chateau Thierry ···-·······
570 Military Service ····-········
571 Francis K. Shattuck ......
572 James Madison ................
573 Hillcrest ···············-···········
574 S. W. Hackett ·····-·········575 Fort Crook ··················-····
576 El Cajon Valley············577 Sunnyside ····-·········-······
578 Progressive ......................
579 Warren G. Harding···580 Santa Maria ····-·-··---

g~r~!t~~~~~-~~~--::::::

Grand
Lodge
2,087.55
549.35
784.40
1,054.85
311.15
1,078.85
867.45
702.15
1,226.70
1,135.40
1,221.45
362.00
328.40
574.10
453.40
670.45
449.40
1,558.30
788.10
471.95
421.50
756.30
1,883.05
1,175.95
1,729.80
462.45
1,106.10
1,043.30
648.95
837.25
516.95
603.35
665.05
888.35
230.15
930.85
799.55
816.20
966.65
885.90
1,718.05
687.60
943.85
1,999.55
743.30
544.25
1,080.85
944.30
809.85
773.00
568.70
838.05
179.70
1,344.00
368.75
765.65
1,014.15
1,189.45
1,346.05
247.80

Masonic $25.00 Homea $1G.W.
Home$ Contribution Contrlb.
672.75
61.00
1,775.00
201.75
175.00
5.00
19.00
475.00
252.00
46.00
1,250.00
329.25
4.00
100.00
105.75
400.00
16.00
359.25
14.00
375.00
287.25
4.00
125.00
240.75
750.00
25.00
403.50
22.00
650.00
372.00
21.00
407.25
525.00
7.00
120.00
175.00
375.00
13.00
102.00
250.00
9.00
190.50
11.00
147.00
275.00
21.00
212.25
550.00
12.00
300.00
147.00
17.00
450.00
526.50
8.00
265.50
225.00
7.00
175.00
159.75
5.00
125.00
142.50
5.00
125.00
256.50
59.00
1,550.00
605.25
26.00
650.00
384.75
44.00
1,550.00
564.00
9.00
250.00
152.25
28.00
800.00
355.50
36.00
1,000.00
331.50
25.00
650.00
204.75
11.00
275.00
281.25
7.00
175.00
174.75
8.00
200.00
201.75
14.00
350.00
215.25
16.00
400.00
291.75
6.00
175.00
75.75
29.00
825.00
299.25
26.00
650.00
252.75
9.00
250.00
276.00
12.00
350.00
323.25
23.00
600.00
289.50
38.00
1,050.00
560.25
11.00
275.00
228.00
20.00
500.00
314.25
60.00
1,650.00
627.75
22.00
575.00
241.50
15.00
375.00
176.25
19.00
500.00
359.25
13.00
350.00
316.50
13.00
350.00
269.25
13.00
350.00
255.00
5.00
125.00
193.50
15.00
400.00
275.25
3.00
75.00
58.50
36.00
925.00
435.00
5.00
125.00
123.75
34.00
925.00
233.25
7.00
175.00
345.75
22.00
600.00
392.25
41.00
1,050.00
425.25
2.00
50.00
84.00

Grand
Lodge
914.15
581 Security ····- ···-····-··-···-·
409.50
582 Rialto ·····-·-··-····-·-·· -682.30
583 W·asco ····-··-··--··-·--· ·580.65
584 Harding ···············-···-···863.55
585 Manchester ·····-··-···········
566.00
586 Garden Grove ···-·······-·
587 Valley Forge ....................
813.90
1,009.70
588 El Sereno ··········-··············
279.90
589 Kauai ···················-···········
654.85
590 Compass ·········-···-··-··336.00
591 Escalon ···················-··-·····
593.60
592 Tujunga ·····················-··1,243.30
593 All States ·····-········-··-·····
1,782.15
594 Service ·····-··-············-·····
595 Alexander Graham Bell
612.80
2,028.80
596 Guardian ·····-········-·-·····
1,305.10
598 Pearl Harbor ·········-·········
750.95
599 Carmelita ············-···--···
999.70
600 Lynwood ·-·······················
320.60
601 Grizzly ···················-·········
557.05
602 Melrose ·····-··-··-·····-···
645.90
603 Dimond ............................
792.20
604 Jubilee ···············-·-·--·· ·
912.75
605 Glassell Park ···--···········
513.45
607 Sojourner ·····-······-··-·1,772.80
608 Granada ···············-·········
989.55
609 Provident ·············-·········
578.80
610 Ehnhurst ···--·-·--··-·····
613.80
611 Canoga ..............................
1,015.30
612 Temple City .•.........•........
977.45
613 Three Pillars ....................
905.75
614 Larchmont ·········-······-369.60
615 Hemet ................................
502.25
616 R. E. Dolley·····-··-···········
376.45
617 Big Bear ·····-······-·····-····
713.40
618 Southland ···--··-··__..-...
654.45
619 Neptune ·······················-···
1,425.75
620 Point Loma ....................•.
1,060.50
621 The Gardens ·····-········-···
836.10
622 Atwater ·····-······-·········-··
1,946.85
623 Menorah ·····-········-···········
487.90
624 Fortitude ..........................
1,540.20
625 Angeles Mesa ·····-·····-1,187.80
626 Chula Vista ......................
608.75
627 Lamanda Park .......•........
591.40
628 ~th_ ·····-········-··-··-·······
636.45
629 Fall'V1ew ·········-····-··-··442.95
630 Ingleside ·····-······-···········
611.10
631 Benevolence ····-···-··-·····
1,532.35
632 Normal Heights ..............
1,444.95
633 Poinsettia ·····-·················
464.00
634 Victorville ........................
635 Riverside ..........................
876.05
640.75
636 John Marshall ·····-·······892.95
637 Palisades ..........................
638 Indian Rock .................... .
479.95
1,006.40
639 Composite ·········-······-··-·
275.85
840 Veritas ···--··-···---··- 641 James A. Foshay ............
528.10
573.55
642 La Cunibre ·········-·····~-···

No.

Lodge

Ma$0nlc $25.00 Homea
Home$ Contribution
300.75
475.00
127.50
400.00
226.50
375.00
188.25
350.00
282.75
600.00
180.00
525.00
274.50
325.00
328.50
575.00
94.50
75.00
209.25
550.00
105.00
325.00
198.00
300.00
406.50
800.00
570.75
1,400.00
204.00
275.00
1,500.00 I
654.00
430.50
750.00
249.75
275.00
313.50
975.00
50.00
108.00
185.25
275.00
214.50
250.00
261.00
400.00
275.00
303.75
167.25
350.00
1,250.00
579.00
327.75
550.00
325.00
189.00
189.00
625.00
1,075.00
316.50
317.25
675.00
400.00
303.75
123.00
200.00
450.00
161.25
250.00
122.25
350.00
237.00
212.25
350.00
1,550.00
438.75
337.50
900.00
280.50
350.00
1,525.00
629.25
400.00
154.50
501.00
1,075.00
1,475.00
354.00
325.00
198.75
300.00
192.00
275.00
212.25
325.00
144.75
150.00
205.50
1,325.00
486.75
875.00
474.75
375.00
150.00
500.00
290.25
200.00
213.75
750.00
294.75
250.00
159.75
1,175.00
312.00
175.00
89.25
250.00
175.50
250.00
192.75

407
$1G.W.
Contrlb.
19.00
16.00
14.00
13.00
20.00
21.00
11.00
23.00
3.00
20.00
13.00
11.00
29.00
54.00
11.00
57.00
29.00
11.00
33.00
2.00
10.00
10.00
16.00
11.00
12.00
48.00
21.00
12.00
25.00
40.00
26.00
14.00
6.00
14.00
9.'00
14.00
14.00
58.00
35.00
13.00
57.00
16.00
40.00
56.00
13.00
11.00
8.00
13.00
6.00
49.00
35.00
14.00
17.00
7.00
23.00
8.00
41.00
7.00
9.00
8.00

408
No.
643
644
845
646
847
848
649
650
651
652
653
854
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
d82
883
684
685
686
687
888
689
690
891
892
693
694
895
696
897
698
699
700
701
702
703

Lodge

Alta Loma·········-··········-·
Lomita ..............................
A. F. E. Irwin ···········-··-·
Metropolitan ····-··-··--Hawthorne ···-····-····--Damascus ··············-··-·····
Florence ·····-···················La Brea ·····-········-··-··--·
Menlo Park················-····
Crescenta Valle7 ............
Fontana ···-····-···-······-·Jordan ···-·········-······-·Monte Vista ·············-··Citrol ·····-······-··-····--···
John D. Spreckels ..........
Livingston ........................
La Habra ·····-··········----·
Baldwin Park ·······-··-···Malta ·····-············-··-·--·
Henry Knox ·····-··-····-···
Ojai ···················-····-··-·····
Kaweah ···············-···········
Reseda ······-···········-·········
Meridian ..........................
San Gorgonio ..................
John P. Jarman·········-···
Greenleaf ···-········-··--·····
San Clemente ..................
Laguna Beach ..................
Far West ·········-····-·········
Los Cerritos ....................
Modesto ···-·········-···-··-···
Willow Glen ·············-··-·
Liberal Arts ·····-··-····-·Altadena ··············-··-··-·
Canby Cross ·················-···
Carmel ·····-············-····-···
Dos Palos ···--··-··-····-···•·
Barstow ·····-·········-·-···-Redwood Empire···-··Trona ···-··-··-··--··San Marino ····-··-··--_
Albany ···················-··-··-

Vista ·····-··-············-·-······

Oildale ·········-········-·········
Pohona ···-···-······-···········
San Carlos ···············-···-·
Indian Wells Valley ··-Travelers ···········-··-····-···
Palm Springs ..................
San Antonio ···············--·
Meudell ···-··-···-··-··-··-···
Crossroads ·······-··-······-···
St. Ehno ···-··········-··-··-···
Wm. D. Stephens·-·---··
Bixby Knolls ····-··-··-···
Ponderosa ···-··-····-··-····
Santa Ynez Valley ···-···
Rosemead ·················-···Westchester ···-··-··-·-···

Grand
Lodge
875.00
626.10
615.25
330.15
1,020.85
1,361.45
1,105.45
568.55
564.90
994.95
673.75
881.85
1,413.30
436.75
1,466.25
427.55
470.95
479.35
484.90
1,030.90
309.45
261.40
892.90
1,172.25
482.55
594.55
1,372.95
197.05
421.80
783.30
863.55
1,036.25
722.65
749.45
1,045.55
345.45
419.75
291.45
732.85
197.20
304.65
707.25
466.45
576.65
436.30
158.35
632.75
746.70
410.50
360.95
415.00
321.50
596.50
226.65
229.20
572.70
512.15
182.10
253.10
612.55

Masonic $25.00 Home:s $1G.W.
Home:s Contribution Contrib.
525.00
20.00
285.00
700.00
26.00
190.50
5.00
125.00
206.25
11.00
300.00
105.75
44.00
1,100.00
314.25
40.00
1,075.00
437.25
26.00
650.00
362.25
5.00
125.00
192.75
12.00
350.00
184.50
25.00
800.00
324.75
26.00
750.00
213.75
21.00
575.00
284.25
51.00
1,425.00
451.50
12.00
300.00
138.75
38.00
1,025.00
476.25
16.00
400.00
132.75
19.00
500.00
144.75
30.00
875.00
141.75
17.00
425.00
154.50
25.00
625.00
334.50
17.00
450.00
92.25
4.00
100.00
87.00
58.00
1,475.00
259.50
24.00
650.00
386.25
6.00
200.00
162.75
16.00
450.00
192.75
60.00
1,675.00
429.75
2.00
100.00
65.25
3.00
150.00
144.00
19.00
475.00
256.50
34.00
1,050.00
267.75
23.00
625.00
341.25
15.00
400.00
233.25
12.00
375.00
242.25
24.00
700.00
342.75
13.00
325.00
107.25
4.00
125.00
138.75
10.00
250.00
92.25
41.00
1,025.00
224.25
3.00
75.00
66.00
11.00
275.00
98.25
12.00
375.00
236.25
7.00
250.00
152.25
11.00
325.00
188.25
15.00
400.00
136.50
5.00
150.00
51.75
18.00
500.00
198.75
34.00
900.00
223.50
15.00
400.00
127.50
8.00
225.00
114.75
24.00
650.00
120.00
17.00
425.00
97.50
32.00
825.00
172.50
12.00
325.00
68.25
13.00
350.00
66.00
37.00
950.00
163.50
27.00
750.00
150.75
9.00
250.00
55.50
20.00
575.00
70.50
61.00
1,700.00
162.75

409

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.

Lodge

Orinda ·············-··-··-·······
El Cerrito ···-······-········-·
Hunters Point Naval ••••
Lake Tahoe ···-··-··-·-Seafaring ···-······-······-···
Lorenzo ···················-··--·
Anacapa..............................
Rim of the World..............
Los Altos ·······················-···
Castro Valley ....................
Blue Lakes ....................... .
Magnolia Park ···············-·
Belmont Shore................
Wayfarer ..........................
U.D. San Loranzo Valley ....... .
U.D. Estero ................................
U.D. Mineral King ....................
U.D. Home ·························-··-···
U.D. George E. Tutt ···········-···
U.D. Acalanes ............................
U.D. San Ramon Valley ..........
U.D. Saint John's ................... .
U.D. Yucaipa ·························-···
U.D. Verduga Hills ·············-···
U.D. Lakewood ........................

704
705
706
707
708
709
710
711
712
713
714
715
716
717

Total

'

Grand
Lodge
249.00
276.90
411.20
111.05
429.25
382.45
271.45
208.75
204.85
282.05
252.35
301.45
327.35
117.35
164.30
226.65
158.15
280.50
144.10
152.25
140.80
135.80
121.50

- - - - - 481,753.85

Masonic $25.00 Home:s $1 G. W.
Home:s Contribution Contrib.
11.00
300.00
75.00
13.00
325.00
79.50
27.00
725.00
111.00
4.00
150.00
35.25
18.00
131.25
475.00
23.00
625.00
107.25
16.00
425.00
77.25
10.00
275.00
63.75
11.00
325.00
59.25
23.00
575.00
80.25
21.00
550.00
66.75
26.00
725.00
77.25
24.00
725.00
81.75
5.00
275.00
36.75
13.00
600.00
46.50
34.00
900.00
53.25
11.00
350.00
45.75
37.00
2,000.00
67.50
12.00
700.00
40.50
15.00
525.00
41.25
15.00
500.00
39.00
14.00
500.00
39.00
8.00
475.00
37.50
75.00
475.00
158,114.25

275,025.00

10,092

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

411

GENE RAL APPE NDIX
CONTE NTS
Page
Standing Committees ............................................................................ 412
Special Committees ...............................~.............................................. 415
Constitutional Boards .......................................................................... 418
Directors Masonic Club Houses .......................................................... 41 9
Registration and Mileage Payment s ························-·························· 420
List of Constitu ent Lodges .................................................................. 462
Extinct Lodges ...................................................................................... 473
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organiza tion ............................ 477
List of Inspectors ············································································-···· 483
Foreign Grand Lodges ·························································-··········-··· 486
Alphabetical List of Lodges .............•.................................................. 491

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1953- 54
STAND ING COMM ITTEE S
JURISPR UDENC E
Oscar Lawler (290) ...·-·······-·········--··············-···800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
Earl Warren (349)·-·-·······--·-················-·······The Supreme Court, Washington 13, D. C.
John W. Shenk (367) ...................................................- ....State Building, San Francisco 2
John R. Moore (667) ..---···························-·············-··-453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Arthur Paulsen (27) .............................................................·----················-··-·····Weaverville
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ---·············-·········-·-··-····-·····1 102 State Bldg., Los Angeles 12
Wakefield Taylor................---······-·············-···-···-·····-················1270 Escobar St., Martinez;
J. L. Missall---·······-···············-·-·-······-·······-········-1325 Lochbrae Rd., No. Sacramento 15
(M. No. 579)
Vernon Patterson........·-···--·············································-··1099 Magnolia Lane, Lafayette
(Jr. W. No. 704)

POLICY AND GENERA L PURPOS ES
Wm. B. Ogden (355) ............................ _____725 Bank of America Bldg., Los Angeles H
Rollie W. Miller (352) ...........................................A.ssoclated Realty Bldg., Los Angeles
Leslie E. Wood (609) ---··············-········-·····-···-·•·········-···········611 "J" St., Sacramento
Chester H. Warlow (247) .......................................... 1004 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno141
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ...........................................:.......2071 Escarpa Dr., Los Angeles 41
Augustus H. Allen (241) ................ _.............................- ..614 So. McClay St., Santa Ana
Ira W. Coburn (216).---·-·· ···--····-··-··- ···-···-···244 0 Mariposa St., San Francisco 10
Ralph W. Cutler...·-·········-············-~---··-···············712 Orange Grove Ave., So. Pasadena
(M. No. 367)
Harold W. Stelllng..................................................................2025 Lake St., San Francisco
(Sr. W. No. 464)

FINANC E
Edward H. Siems (560) .........·-···············-········-··-·····-·-········-1106 Broadway, Oakland 7
F. Wesley Davies (577) .....----········· ·-··-···--··· -··-849 San Vicente Rd., Arcadia
Phil N. Myers (430) .......-·····--···-·-·-··-·····--·······-···--············.132 Bolt St., Playa del Rey
Ben C. Corlett ( 12) ··--···--·········-····-·····-··-·········-·--464 California St., San Francisco 20
Paul F. Balck (1H) ..........................:.............................1844-28th Ave.. San Francisco 22
Kline J. Willlams.....- ...........•.......................................610 Monterey St., San Luis Obispo
(M. No. 209)
Kermit A. J•cobson.___.........................---···-····--··-------···-·---·····.1720 Maple St., Pasadena 4
(Sr. W. No. 599)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

413

CREDEN TIALS
Louis Sutter (225)~·---·------·····----···----··--·····--···-----·····---·-69 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Wilbur D. Crosby (704) ---·-····---· -----·-··--·- -·····---··__ J Moraga Hlway, Orinda
C. Stanley Chapman (339) ................- .................................._Chapman Ranch, Fullerton
Thomas F. Mason (198) ...._________..............................-916 N. Edgemont, Los Angeles
Carroll A. Trefts (403) ....·-··························--··············•·899 Glendome Circle, Oakland 2
Reginald Fudge. ....•.•----········-· ··········-···- ··-··----353 5 Langridge Ave .. Van Nuys
(M. No. 450)
Donald J. Diclt-.......- ..............;.......---------· ···.2124 Blackstone Ave., Fresno 3
(Sr. W. No. 700)

PAY OF MEMBERS
Loyd C. Campbell (352) ....·---········-······-······-·······--···---1338 Bond St., Los Angeles 15
John V. Bacigalupi (191)----··· ·······---·······-·······-·······-··--·.108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
John H. Ferguson (327) --~-------·······-·-··-·-···---1 16 No. Maine Ave., Lang Beach
Matthew M. Codon (42) ---····--·-···· ··..:........_.530 So. Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 5
Claud D. Black (397)------- -------······ ··-·-··2862 California Ave., Huntington Park
Earl E. Llndley...............--·-·-·-·-····---········--··-············-····-·-··-···---·Redwood Valley
(M. No.146)
Thomas J. McKlmson........................................................673 Las Lomas, Pacific Palisades
(Sr. W. No. 602)

CHART ERS
Glenn C. Holmes (681) .....................----····--·········--··-···--··--··p· 0. Box 91. Mendota
Wm. R. Hervey, Jr. (202)--····-······-·-·········---·-·····458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Wm. J. Williams (685) ...........---·····--·--·- ···---·······--1 476 Bradbury Rd., San Marino
Harold Meyer (481)._____________________ ........................... 2243-J<lth Ave., San Francisco 16
Ralph W. Collins (566) ...........----·····-··-···----·-··------811 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 17
Cyril L. Weeks (120) ......·---·······-~----····------··------·····465 Callfornia St., San Francisco 4
Kenneth R. Ford (400) ..............------···--· ·-----·-··-- -1.30 Park Road, Burlingame
Brown Zarley•.-··--········-·· ·····-··------- -·--··-·-·-····· ·-···--·--···-- -1952 Marin, Berkeley 7
(M. No. 573)
Lewis H. Johnson........•- ......................-----········-------154 Westlawn Ave., Daly City 25
(Jr. W. No. 370)

GRIEVA NCES

BY-LAWS

Joe L. Shell (35)---···· -·-··--······ ···--·--·--· ·--- --·County Courthouse, San Diego
Albert F. Ross (254)---···-·-··--··········-····-·······---·······-··-·-···-······-···-·--..Box 759, Redding
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ...----··-·····- ·-·-······--·· --111 Sutter St.. San Francisco 4
Ralph E. Hoyt (268).----·-·····-····-·-··-·······-······-··-··-···············89 Hillcrest Rd., Berkeley
Ralph K. Pierson (273) ...............-----·-·············-··-····-···700 So. Poinsetta Ave.. Compton
A. F. Baughn·-······----····---·····-·--·-·······-······························6363 Wilshire, Los Angeles 48
(M. No. 662)
Daniel M. Cameron......·-·········-···············--··--·········----1641 Parkridge Rd., Sacramento 18
(Jr. W. No. 20)

Oakley K. Morton (259 )--·------- --···--·---- --·-···----- -Courthou se, Riverside
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ···-·······-···········---·-·------····Library & Courts Bldg., Sacramento
Wm. W. McKee (642) .......----··-···-·-······---···-··----17 Oriole Rd .. Santa Barbara
Robert C. Peyton (392)-----···--·---···-············-··----910 N. Foothill Rd., Beverly Hills
Lee T. Mullen (392) ..........-----------·-····--··--···-···---..306 W. 3rd St., Los Angeles 13
Folmar Blangated........--···-······--·---····----------·····.13075 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 49
(M. No. 506)
Ralph B. Sutton (3)---·----- -----------· -·--·-2436 Meadowbrook Rd.. Sacramento 15
(Sr. W. No. 3)

414

PROCEEDINGS OP TH~

CORRESPONDENCE
Newcomb Condee (614) ........_;....·-····-·····-···---·-·--Superior Court, Los Angeles 12
Oscar C. Olsen (366) -···-·······························-···----·2095-29th Ave., San Francisco 16
Herbert G. Polhill (327) ............405 Farmers & Merchants Bank Bldg. Long Beach 12
George W. Burch, Jr. (650)--·······-···-······-·-·-·-········417 So. Hill St., Los Angeles 13
Graham A. Backus (595) ........_.............................-.3157 W. 78th Place, Los Angeles 43
Homer E. Rathbun.. .........·-·····································-····-······1025 Linden Ave., Glendale 1
(M. No. 368)
·
Don C. Crystal.............................................-·················--··805 E. Palmer Ave., Compton
(Sr. W. No. 482)

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
Andrew Burke (549) ..---·-··-·-····---····--·-···25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Samuel F. Worswick (494) ..·---··--·----···-····-··-·--1433 Madison St., Oakland 12
Alfred F. Breslauer (344).--·-·----····-·······--·····-·-111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
E. Lloyd Hanson (494) ....·-··-···················-·········---·1175 Wellington St., Oakland 2
Bernie J. Katz ( 120) ······-················································18&t-28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Philip M. Bovero........·-····-···········································2222-39th Ave., San Francisco 16
(M. No. 374)
Elmer F. Elaen......................•....•........................... _............. 14993 Patton St., San Leandro
(Sr. W . No. 188)

LODGE FINANCING
Edward J. Blickfeldt '(535) ..........................·-·····················-·590 Hargrave St., Inglewood
E. Herbert Phillips (349) ---··············································-····-··-354-17th St., Oakland 12
Walter Pybon ( 166) ······-··-··-···-···-··············-~----···221 Sansome St., San Francisco 4
Clinton T. Duffy ( 191 ) ····--·-··--·········-········-····-·----320 Goodhill Road, Kent8eld
Darrell R. Purcell (40)·-·-···········-·-·······-··----1523 Los Molinos Way, Sacramento 19
Mark A. Green (320) .......................---··-·····--··········.318-B So. Reno St., Los Angeles 5
Glen C. Holbert (Hl) .......-··················--···--·--···---··2360 Presidio Dr., San Diego
Harold N. Ric:hards....................-··································-··-1880-lOth Ave., Sacramento 18
(M. No. 20)
.
Robert E. Flta.....-·'··········-············-'·--··-·--···-············-.26 Franciscan Way, Berkeley
(Jr. W . No. 225)

NECROLOGY
Roy C. Bryan (513) ·----····-··········-····-····-··-·-·--829 Longwood Ave.. Los Angeles 5
Ross K. Roper (360)---·-··-····---·-·-·-·······-·-·--·-.:..__ tti? Gilbert St., Hayward
Chester M. Gjerde (319) -·-··-----·-·-·--····-··---617 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 14
Harry P. Heidenreich ................................. .10712 Rochester Ave., West Los Angeles 24
(M. No. 378)
Roy V. Marsh....................·-·····-·······················-···-··10510 S. Manhattan, Los Angeles 47
(Sr. W. No. 559)

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

415

COMMITTEES

MASONIC IDSTORY
Leon 0. Whitsell (293 l----·········-·············-···-·····--······-·Collq• of PaciJk, Stockton 4
Charles R. Ingram (23l-----···············-~---·-·····-···.3110 Argonne Circle, Santa Barbara
Wilson E. Newlon (541) .....................·-·························-·--·981 Miller Ave., Berkeley 8
Samuel Steelman (355).·-··-··········-·····························650 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 14
0. J. Woh~emuth (122)---··-·········-···········-·-····-·-··P• 0. Box 246, Walnut Creek
Arthur H. riggs (401) ••..-·····-······-··-···········-··-····.2117 Funston Place, Oakland 2
Carl W. Brainard (579)·-······---·········-·············-·······---P. 0. Box 834, Sacramento
Frank Everett (646) ..........·-········-·-·-·······················3282 Veteran Ave., Los Angeles 34

MASONIC INFORMATION
Henry W . Coil (635)----·····-······-······-······-··-·······-----·--Boa 512, Riverside
Robert F. Shippee (458).-····--····-·-······-···--..0S So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE
Leo E. Anderson, General Chairman (355) ............612 So. Flower St., Los Angeles 17
William B. McKesson, Co-Chairman (685) .................. Superior Court. Los Angeles 12
Laurence E. Dayton, Co-Chairman (61 ) .................... 1832 Magellan Drive, Oakland 11
(Other members of the Committee to be announced later)

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
George D. Gavin (144)-..................................79 New Montgomery St., San Francisco
Lowell K. Bain (244)-·-·····-················································-4216 Webster St.• Oakland
Forrest H. Keck ( 178) ....·-···---···---········-···.306 Edgerton Drive, San Bernardino
Hershal J. Lay (378)--·-···-··········-················-···-12148 Callfa St., No. Hollywood
Perry H. Barrett (699 l--·-···-·····-·····--··-···-··-----·387 Orlena Ave., Long Beach 14
Harry L. Buckali:w (366) ....·-················-····-···········-·····-····1019 No. Van Ness, Fresno
Thomas E. P. Woods (487)---···--·······-······-····---···-·-···-·--··.lOS Buss St., Vallejo
George K. Palmer (442 )---·····--··--·······,···-······-·3509 Dove Court, San Diego 3
Clarence C. Smith (226)---·--·······-···---·········-····----856 Prospect Row, San Mateo
William L. Currie (339).·--·-···-···-····-·············..;.1 123 W. Commonwealth, Fullerton
Atwill Morgan (636) ..... ·--·-·-·········-·-···-··•·······-···887i Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 46
William P. Coleman (371) ......- ........45-510 Kamehameha Hwy., Kaneohe, Oahu, T. H.
.
.

TAXATION
R. P. Wiaecarver (478) ...· - ------··-··315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4

James E. Hammond (568) ......·-·-··-·········-··········-········-111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Robert R. York (349) ..·-······-···-····---····-··-············--192-t Broadway, Oakland 12

DE MOLAY
RITUAL
Elbert W. Davis (571) ......-·-····--··-··-···-··-·····-""···-····--...:•.2908 .Russell St., Berkeley
Clare B. Campbell (230) ..........·-························-·--,..........-...Route l, Box 162, Gridley
Ralph M. Foote ( 135) ···-··-·-··············-···-····-·-···-····-····--...-·-.;....Bat 722, Linden
Arthur J. Kahn (462)----··--···-································2a+t Bryant St., San Francisco 10
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ·-······--··-·····-----············-····__&• 887, Bakersfield
Guy B. Mize (368)---·---·---··-···--···------1238 ldlewood Rd., Glendale 2
Augustus H. Allen (241) ..·-···-------·------61-t So. McClay St., Santa ADa

Raymond S. Kimbell (22) ..........·-····-·········-········--90 Allston Way, San Francisco 27
Thurman D. Moyers (366) ···-·····-··········---········-············-830 Normal St., Fresno 4
Kay V. Smith (580)---·····-···············································3026~-6th Ave., San Diego 3
Henry Honaker (566) •..·-······--····-·············-···--·-········-··.309 W. Palm Ave,. Compton
Francis W. Peters (319) ---···-··-·······-·-··-···-············2818 Guirado St., Los Angeles 23
Edwin R. Brooks (431) ---···-···---··----···-······----117 Bissell Ave., Richmond
Alvin E. Clark (40) .................................................,. .........................719 K St., Sacramento
Clare Nelson (294)._ _ _ _ _ ,
--........Route 2, Kingsburg

416

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

COLUMBIA TEMPLE

INSURANC E PROGRAM

John A. Dull (421) ...- .....- ..·-·--············-·-··· ··-··--3730 W. 59th St., Los Angeles 43
Cecil B. Mathews (8) .......---····-··-·····-..·--....................___......;.......Box 936, Sonora
...·····---.......-.-...................-··-···-..·····---Sonora
Arthur E. Oink (8) .......Chester M. Smith (525)_...........- ...--..····----................._ ........224 Poplar, San Bruno
G. C. McKinley (j) ..............................................................Assessor's Office, Sacramento

MEMORIAL BUILDING
Edward H. Siems (560) ___..___...... -~..;_ __........... 1106 Broadway, Oakland 7
.......-2121 Diesel St., Oakland 6
Otto H. Fischer (215)----·- ---·-John C. Bovey (166) .... _ ..:....~--............-.--.464 California St .. San Francisco 20
Arthur M. Warren (481) .....---·-··..-·-..----·-..···.3060-16th St., San Francisco 3
..Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Paul A. PHueger (370) ..~...--..·--·---..--····

INVESTME NT COMMITTE E
Francis V. Keesling ( 1) ---··..······--····-----.....-315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Paul A. PHueger (370) ..........................................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Edward H. Siems (560) ••- .................- ....·-·-.. _..____.1106 Broadway, Oakland 7
Ralph H. Head (352) ..._____ ..._ ..P, O. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
John W. Davey (260) ...............................- ................. 1290 Sutter St., San Francisco 9

DISTINGUI SHED GUESTS

M. Jay Jensen (454)-----..-·-·------c/o Olivet Memorial Park, Colma 25
Horace W. Rice (191) ..............- ............................315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Ray A. Farley (564) ......__....._ .....................................5742 Fleming Ave., Oakland 5
John R. Garside (347) ..____ .......... _ ......._ .... ______ ,,______ ..5323 Rosalind, Richmond 9
Ralph M. Small (554) ____......._......................- ..........-298~26th Ave., San Francisco

PUBLICATI ONS .
Ralph K. Pierson (273) ...- ............- -.........................700 So. Poinsettia Ave., Compton
Herbert R. Hargrave (530) ....___..,_,_,,_____ 1620 W. Belmont Ave., Fresno 1
Vincent P. McMurdo (453)---..-···----..............- ....... 100 Bush St., San Francisco
Leslie E. Alt ( 166)-.........---..........- .........................._420 Market St., San Francisco
Donald G. Campbell (608)------- --..---·-2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino, 9

RECOGNIT ION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
· ,,____453 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
John R. Moore (667)------ -----Chester H. Warlow (247) ..---..·-------·-......... 1004 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 1
Arthur M. Warren (481) ........... _ ..- ...-.......................306Q..16th Street, San Francisco 3

COMMISSIO N ON REVISION OF ROSS DIGEST
Arthur M. Paulsen (27) .......- ................ _____.........-····-··-..··-········--·······Weaverville
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) .....~ .....- ......- ..........................-.1360 Grove St., Alameda
Lloyd E. Wilson (630) ...- ..._ .......................- ....25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2

SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON TRIAL PROCEDUR ES
Harry J. Neubarth (481) ..- -·- · - · - - -....·--City Hall, Room 402, San Francisco
Gerald Levin (136).--...- ....--....- - - - -..-------·-.225 Bush St., San Francisco
Kenneth G. Blackman (464) ..............--..··-·------..·--.251 Prague St., San Francisco

417

Herbert Nelson (556) ............--..··-·-.------··-.--··---..Ruas Bldg., San Francisco 4
Arthur F. Strehlow (215) .............................- ..........................- .. 1801 High St., Alameda
Horace F. Cagwin (356)---·-·-·- --·-----....-.320 Market St., San Francisco

SOJOURNE RS COMMITTE E
Chester R. MacPhee (455) ...........~-......- ......... 1048 Valencia St., San Francisco 10
NaDell E. Jensen (635) ......................................Postmaster, U. S. Post Office, Riverside
Anthony J. Oliver (509) ..............................................2377 Castilian Dr., Los Angeles 28
James W. O'Bryan (451) ..·-------..............................711 West Arden, Glendale 2
Charles E. Bradley (479) ....- ........_, ______... _ ..,_........- ...401 Patch Ave., San Jose 28
Joe A. Taylor (307) .._..;_ __.,.. __.._____.........._ ........2217-21st St., Santa Monica
- - - · - · - -..- ..7228 LaSalle, Los Angeles 47
Arthur L. Bell (405) __ .......
Marcus A. Woodward (647) ......_·--·--·--....- ...............99 Suffolk Ave., Sierra Madre
Wayne Gleason (501)----- --.................._____ p_ 0. Box 628, Westwood
...... _______..428 Safford Ave., Fresno 1
E. Theodore Ford (700)
...........- ....·-··-·--1212 H St., Eureka
...............................
.......
James Henderson (552)
Harold J. Kircher (35) ........___........ ___..............418 La Crescentia Dr., San Diego 6
H. H. Hendron (613) ... - - - · - - - · - - - - - - - - - - 1 6 0 1 J St., Sacramento
Fred H. Blanchard (373).-............................- ............. 10666 Ohio Ave., Los Angeles 24
Pomona
Obed W. Carr (303) ...- ...--···---..·-·-·-..........- •.- ......833 Reeves Place,
Hubert L. Hall (522) ...... _ ....____..___ ,,_______...,_ff28 Sunfield, Long Beach 8
Walter R. Gentry (625) ..........._____ .... _ ..._4857 Vistadeoro Ave., Los Angeles 43

SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON BALLOTING
Thomas B. Copeland (190) ..............................................245 Market St., San Francisco 6
HeJll"y 0. Hammerich (370) ............................ 140 New Montgomery St., San Francisco
Adam B. Morten (346) .......- ...... - ...................................... 17121 Wildway, Los Gatos

'419

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

CONSTIT UTIONAL BOARDS
ENDOWME NT BOARD

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUBHOUSES
BERKELEY

Ernest G. Bashor (352)._ _ _ _ _ _ _.--3161 Los Feliz Blvd., Los Angeles 39
Edmund A. Lockett (599)·-···············-···-······-·········.552 So. Raymond St., Pasadena 2
Ira D. Wheeler (637) ..........-·······················-····-······················--Box 891, Santa Monica
Orno E. Tyler (442)--····-----··--··-··-··--·--·~l Kansas St., San Diego 4
Clovis J. Robert (202).____;_···-····--··--·--· ···.576 San Marino Ave., San Gabriel
Lester A Price (379)-··--··-··· ··--······-·····-·- --·-----'68 Saratoga St.. Fillmore
John M. Gordon (202) _ __..._ .........--··-·······-3+t6 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27
Byron Coleman (453) ,__···-························--·-··.220 Montgomery St., San Francisco
Leonard R. Avilla (346)-.-··--········ ·:.·····-·--··-,.._1717 Middlefield Road, Palo Alto
Harry A. Nauman, Jr. (58)··············-·····-···-··········--········--2021-28th St., Sacramento
Rue W. Sims (188) .......----·····-··-- -···-·- ···:.......- ....,898 Rodney Dr., San Leandro
Norbert Mixter (424)·-·····-···················································-··-···204 E. Pine St., Exeter
Marlon A Long (465)-····-·········· ·--··:···--··-·····--· ·-······.324 College Ave., Fresno
John Kahler (604) ... ------·-···-·- -······-······--132 4 No. Lowell St., Santa Ana
John W. Davey (260)--·······-···-·····-········-··-·-·-·-·······1290 Sutter St., San Francisco 9

.--P.O. Box 1702, Richmond
Walter T. Helms (347)_
Carlisle D. Nielsen (541) ....·--·---···-···- ···----.170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley
R. P. Wisecarver (478) .......·-··-·····-················--·315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Russell C. Horstmann (336) ....-·--····-····-- -··--·- -·-.560-57th St., Oakland 9
Leo E. Sievert (685).--•.:.·------·- --···114 Sansome St., San Francisco 4
Paul S. Boren (551)-··-··· ·---;--·---·- ·--·-1947 TifBn Road, Oakland
Carl B. Munck (564).--·--- ···--·---·-···· --H19 Broadway, Oakland'T2
Angus S. Holden (481) .....-·-·-····-····--- ---··-330 Russ Bldg., San Francisco 4
Gene C. Otwell (705) ···-····-····------··· ·---···········-····-·· ·-759 Creston Rd .. Berkeley

118

BOARD OF CONTROL
Jack C. Butler (58).·-·---·-······················--··········-·····Chamber of Commerce, Redding
350 Cedar St., San Diego 1
John T. Martin (657).----- ·--..-..........
Guy A. Tolle (577) .....·-···-----··-·· ··--·200 E. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles 54
Harry F. White (247) ...·-.· ·-·····--·····-·····-- -··-···--·--126 1 Broadway, Fresno 21
Reginald M. Mills (61) ....-·--········----··-··· ·-··-·····1061 Market St., San Francisco 3

MASONI C HOMES
TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Pres. (344) ....·-·-···-··-····-·2070 Pacific Ave., San Francisco 9
Myron E. Smith, Vice-Pres. (394) ..·-·---··-··-······617 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 17
Chas. Albert Adams (166) ·-·······-·-·-···················-···Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco 5
Ralph H. Head (352)·-·······-····-····P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Leo E. Anderson (355) .....·--··-······--·- ··- -·612 So. Flower St., Los Angeles 17
Arthur M. Warren (481) ....::...........·-·-····-·-·-·-·-···-·J 060...16th St., San Francisco 3
Henry C. Clausen (630) ...._···-··-········-··-····-···..31S Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Edgar V. Stewart. Jr. .(529) ..... _..·-····--..·-·-··-·········.510 W. 6th St., Los Angeles H
L. Harold Anderson (346) ····-----····---· ··-·-...24S Market St., San Francisco 6

LOS ANGELES
Ellsworth Meyer, Chairman (677)------·-····- 2071 Escarpa Drive., Los Angeles 41
A Curtis Smith, Vice~halrman (618)_...__.........211 No. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills
C. Earle Crane, Sec.-Treas. (528) ...........·-·-··-·-···440 No. Palm Drive, Beverly Hills
Qyde C. Shoemaker ( 5 6 6 ) - - - - - - - - ··-117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
John A Klarquist (445)--·---- ---···-618 So. Western Ave., Los Angeles 5
Elvin C. Drake (677)--··----- ··---·········101 7 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504)---·---··· ··-···----415S Greenbrier Road, Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327) ......................................... .1505 Armando Road, Long Beach 7
John M. Askin (278) ...·-··--··--····--·-······-·-·...833 So. Wall St., Los Angeles 14
Howard M. Wilson (677)---···-·-· --···----·--478 -21st Place, Santa Monica
Herbert H. Cooper (614)---···--·· ·-·-···--1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25
Frank H. Reinsch (677) ...--.·~-··-···-··----1322 No. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Charles E. Listenwalter (392) •.,..·-·········--········-.37S So. Rlmpau Blvd., Los Angele1 5

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

420

Name of Loclae

REGISTRAT ION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

.

llcprescntanves

Mileage Allowed

1 Malcolm S. Teller, Master---·············· ·····--·-$
California .:---·-···-···-·····-N o. .... Howard M. McKinley, Jr., Senior Warden
Joseph M. Pahls, Junior Warden
Edward C . Lohmeyer, P. M. and Inspector
Bruce Q. Engle, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
Harvey E. Teller, Past Master
David Thomson, Past Master
2 Charles E . Hall, Master..------·-···-··-· · 30.i2
Western Star ---·····--No. ·-·James Forrest Smith, Senior Warden
o 3 Horace R. La Fortune, Master....---·············· 7.2i
fehama ····-·-·······-······-··· N • ····Ralph B. Sutton, Senior Warden
Harold C. Schroder, Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, P. M. and Inspector.... 7.2i
E Emmett Ramey, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
No 5 W lter C. Roy, Master•..---·-························ 3.10
Benicia --··-···--·-------·-· · • ···· sv:nd o. K. Sorensen, Senior Warden
Guy S. Fairhurst, Junior Warden
N 8 El
R. Merrihew, Master•........----·······-······ 12.'46
Tuolumne -···········-···-··- o. .... Cha~les C. Hale. P. M. and Inspector...,...... 10.08
Lewis H . Bach, Past Master
Harold Smith, Past Master
.No. 9....John Casper Mayer~ Master......................---· 8.30
Corinthian ------------··.
Oliver Crother, Senior Warden
30
James W. Robinson, P. M . and Inspector.... 8.
George W. Williams, Past Master
10 G"lb rt W. Hilton, Master.............................. 3.92
San Jose ······-··-·······-··--·No. ···· G~:ge E. Biggs, Senior Warden
Frederick L. Brown, Junior Warden
Josephs. Greenley, Past Master
No 12-Charles U. Price, Maat~-·-·········d···-·············· 3.20
Yount ·······---·····-··-·· · • · William H. Ricketts, Seruor War en

fa~e~~s~~g~oM!:~r~;::....................

3.20

Ben C. Corlett, Past Master
Allen p. Owen. Past Master
13-Thomas H. Taylor, Master..---····················· 2i.98
H Th dore L. Picco, Master............................ 3.00
femple ···-----------N o. ···· Sp:cer Rees, Senior Warden
J. N. Evans, Past Master
al h Nicholas Berryman, Master................ J0.18
Eureka ,.--··---------N o· 16-~uirell Clifford Juli, P. M. and Inspector... . 10.18
N 17 Rene Monbeight, Master
La Parfalte Union --·-···· 0 • - Henry Labataille, Senior Warden
Andre L. Armand, p. M. and Inspector
Rene Canonica, Past Master
Edouard J. Lagarde, Past Master
Felix P. Lassalle, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfantl, Past Master
Jules Ramond. Past Master

Nevada ---·--······-··--·No.

No. of Lodse

llcprescntatives

421
Mileage Allowed

Mountain Shade -"··········--No. 18.... James W. Hansen, Representative................ 36.80
Ben H. Peterson, Past Master........................ 7.24
San Joaquin ···-·-·-----No. 19.... Elmer S. Duckworth, Master..·-··················- 6.86
Wesley Simard, Senior Warden
John H. Southwell, Past Master
Washington ··-········-········No. 20.... Harold N. Richards, Master...·-··········-·······- 7.24
William Leroy Lewis, Senior Warden
Joseph J. Ralph, Past Master
Hawaiian ·······-·-········-···No. 21.. .. Norman R. Davis, Senior Warden.... _........... 348.45
Clarence N. Hughes, Past Master
Occidental ···········-··---···No. 22.... John A. Mord, Jr., Master
Hiram D. Blanchard, Senior Warden
Robert D. Owen, Junior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., P. M. and Inspector
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
Joseph A. Bennett, Past Master
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Archibald J. Cloud, Past Master
Raymond S. Kimbell, Past Master
Lyle E. Patton, Past Master
Madison ······-····················No. 23.... Earl D. Wheaton, Senior Warden....·-········· 24.52
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master............ 24.98
Edward Farley, P. M. and Inspector............ 24.52
Mariposa ········-·····--··-···No. 24.... Harry C. Wells, Master...........·-·-··-··-········· 26.24
Oscar H. Ivey, Senior Warden
James P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetowa -··············-···No. 25....Roy B. Rutz, Senior Warden......•..·-············ 11.78
Carl J. Forseberg, Junior Warden
George A. French, Past Master
El Dorado ........................No. 26
···· !fh~~~s 1T~ch:~d~~n1:-';~~;d;;················ 11.68
Charles L. Buckley, Junior Warden

.

Trinity

-···-··-·------··-No. 27.... Walter P. Van Matre, Senior Warden........ 34.42

Arthur Paulsen, Past Grand Master..·-·-··· 34.42
Golden Gate -·-·················No. 30.•.. Howard James Smith, Master
Clifford Kraner Hamilton, Senior Warden
William Bradford Bellamy, Junior Warden
Harry K. Widup, P. M. and Inspector
Raymond H. Bradley, Past Master
Randolph Mario Rosso, Past Master
Gold Hill ···········-···--······No. 32.... Albert S. Bates, Senior Warden..·-··············· 9.00
Douglas B. Spence, Junior Warden
Ophir ··------ · -·--No. 33._Hayden Stephens, Junior Warden.....·-·-····· 9.66
San Diego ···················-···No. 35.... Fred J. H. Rickon, Maater.............................. 59.78
William K. Ehmcke, Senior Warden
Walter S. Potts, Junior Warden
Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master.... 59.78
Joe L. Shell, Past Maater••.•..•...............-----·- 59.78
Harold J. Kircher, Past Master
George W. Elder, Past Master
Howard ···········-···············No. 37....William L. Harris, Senior Warden..........-.. 37.00

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Alloweil

38 Loren Cecil Johnson, Master...............•.......... 6.32
····Albert Stephen Hoke, Senior Warden
Walter Leek Robinson, Junior Warden
Henry Kaiser, P. M. and Inspector--··········· . 6.32
Edwin R. Hoff, Past Master
Roy L. M~Beld, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master
.No 40 .Alfred Boyd Collier, Master.......................... 7.24
Sacramento ······-············
'
···Forrest Elwood Robinson, Senior Warden
John Sydney Vining, Junior Warden
Darrell R. Purcell, Past Master
Harry M. Baker. Past Master
Winfred Merrill Wright, Master................. . 2.30
Martinez ············ ·············· No' 41 ····George
Taylor Barkley, Senior Warden
Phillip Burnham Williamson. Junior Warden
Benjamin P. Schleifer, Past Master
Wakefield Taylor, Past Master.................... 2.30

Santa Cruz ··············-··-····No'

Leslie, Malter·--·--······-···-··········-····
Los Ange1eS ····-·-······-····No• 42 - .Jack
Bert Knaster, Senior Warden
August Flam, Past Master
Nathan Scheer. Past Master
Joseph D. Weisberg, Past Master

49.62

Hiram -·······---.. ·-······......No. 43.... Not Represented
Mount Moriah ..................No. 44.... Robert E. Howser, SMasterW d .
Frank G. Norman. enlor ar en
Otto A. Gramlow. Junior Warden
Jack Walton Leishman, P. M. and Inspector
Thomas W. Clancy, Past Master
Alphonse F. Mailloux, Past Master
Irwin J. Robertson. Past Master
Crescent

-.No. 45 ..Howard Benner, Master------·-····..-·--·· 38.58
···--··-·-··
.. Lome Weaver, Senior Warden

Texas --·······-··-······--·No. 46•... Not Represented
Porbestown '....--..··--·····No. 50.... Arthur L. Ritter, Master...........................- ... 26.52
Illlnolstown ___ ...... _..__No. 51....J. E. Sears, Muter__.......;.................·-··---· 23.M
Suisun --··..-·--··....... _No. 55.... L. J. Hayes, Past Master and Representative
Volcano _.........-····-·········No. 56.... Not Represented
·
No. 57.... Charles C. Warren, Muter............................
S anta R osa ..........._..........
Shirley K. McMullin, Senior Warden
Glendall W. McDermott, Junior Warden
Carvil W. Marlatt, P. M. and Inspector......
Edward T. Koford, Past Master
Raford W. Leggett, Past Master
F. Leslie Manker, Past Master......................
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
L. Everett Richardson, Past Master
Union
-

423

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

422

...--··-·--.........No. 58_ Wilbur W. Trowbridge, Muter................... .
C. Herbert Mullen, Senior Warden
Richard J. Lawrence, Junior Warden
J. P. Bascom, Past Master
Jack C. Butler, Past Master

4.02
4.18
4.18
4.18

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Gravel Range ....................No. 59.... Erle Pauly, Representative.............................. 28.62
Eric William Nelson, P. M. and Inspector.. 8.30
Plumas ..............................No. 60.... William Slaten, Jr .. Master.-......................... 31.40
Orval A. Myers, P. M. and Inspector.......... 31.40
Live Oak ..................- .. ...:..No. 6L .. Willlam James Harris, Master
John Willlam Telford, Senior Warden
Laurence Edward Dayton, Past Master
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Reginald M. Mills. Past Master
Natoma ..............................No. 64.... Edmond John Munger, Senior Warden........ 8.34
Norman L. Langness, Past Master
lmmer Odel Rice, Past Master
Amador .........- ...........~ .. :...No. 65.... Not Represented t
Forest ................................No. 66.... Willard V. Van Doren, Representative...... 38.40
Morning Star ..................,.No. 68.... George A. Fletcher, Master............................ 6.86
·Alvin V. Abbott, Senior Warden
Robert W. Schaeneman, Junior Warden
Stanley Hurst Wentz, P. M. and Inspector.. 6.86
George H. Buttrick, Past Master
Alfred H. Knak, Past Master
Enterprise ...................___ No. 70....William Gerald Anderson, Master................ 9.80
James Holmes Barr, Senior Warden
Hugh Dickson Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain ·····--~......No. 76.... Melvln Sutton, Senior Warden..................... . 10.08
Calaveras .....................-.No. 78.... Joseph E. Hertzig, Senior Warden. ............... 9.40
Humboldt ..........................No. 79.... Leland L. Breshears, Senior Warden........... . 34.22
Arnold 0. Remington, Junior Warden
Howard B. Melendy, Past Master
lone ............- ........- ........... No. 80.... Stanley D. Hughes, Master.. _ ...................... . 10.32
J. Wesley Sibole, P. M. and Inspector........ 10.32
Donald H. Onstad, Past Master
Yolo .............................._.No. 81.... Leonard E. Knight, Master............................ 1.36
Vesper ..............................No. 84.... William A. Cupples, Senior Warden............ 27.60
Lester Totten, P. M. and Inspector.............. 27.60
Naval ...................- ..........No. 87.... 0sce 0. Kenkins, Master................................
2.70
Melvin C. Nelson, Senior Warden
John K. Cothran, Junior Warden
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Melvin C. Baker, Past Master
Donald H. Bricker, Past Master
Milton I. Dawson, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Rose'.s Bar ........................No. 89.... Edward Kent Benidict, Senior Warden........

7.24

10.30

North Star ....................~...No. 91.... Not Represented
St. Helena ··-·······............No. 93.... Frank L. Wood, Maater-· -·---·····-..·······Howard K Cole, Senior Warden
Lowell Palmer, Junior Warden
Russell J. Sandvick, Past Master

5.36

N1JDe of Lodge
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

llepresmtatives

Mileage Allowed

Henry Clay -·-··-··-··-·-No. 95.... John V. Vukovich, Senior Warden..... ·-······ 9.54
Homltos ............................No. 98.... James W. Short, Master...---·-···············-- 26.24
Wilson E . Lathrop, P. M. and Inspector...... 22.78
Yosemite ·······················-···No. 99.... Leland D. Boysen, Master.............................. 22.78
Ame N. Ornberg, Senior Warden
Donald E. Blauert, Past Master
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master................ 7.24
101.... Donald 0. Hayne, Senior Warden.............• 24.10
Clay --········-···············No.
Thomas J. Edwards, Junior Warden
H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
103.... Wendell James Grubbs, Senior Warden...... 12.22
Oroville ········--·····-···----No.
Sewall K. Parker, Past Master
Lexington ···--···-··--···No. 104....E. Earl Crawford, Master................·-······-··· 49.62
George M. Hanson, Senior Warden
Arcata .......................- ... No. 106.... Ralph Patton Summers, Senior Warden...... 35.30
James Edwin Morton, Jr .. Past Master
Pajaro --·-··-····--·······---·.No. 110.... Not Represented
Chico ·····---·---················No. 111....Lloyd D. Mcintyre, Master............................ 25.04
Hayden G. Lewis, Senior Warden
William C. Brouillard, Past Master
Summit ···········-···············No. 112.... John B. Grohl, Master......·-··-····················-···

10.08

Eden -··--·-················-···No. 113.... H. Dean Poisal, Master
Harold L. Evans, Senior Warden
Park M. Hyde, Junior Warden
Concord

-425

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

424

-··-··--··-·..No. 117.._Forrest F. Stead, Master...---··--··········-··Joseph H. Dewey, Senior Warden

7.24

lrving A. Berliner, Master
Fidelity ········-····-·············No. 120.... Reuben
E. Gilbert. Senior Warden
Max Rudorfer, Junior Warden
Cyril L. Weeks. Grand Marshal
Louis Blumenthal, Past Master
Merton A. Jacobs, Past Master
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Henry Levy, Past Master
.
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Mark H. Nusbaum, Past Master

No. of Loclge

llepreseotatives

Mileage Allowed

Hermann ...................._No. 127•... Alfred Floer, Master
Arthur Parker, Junior Warden
John Behrens, P. M. and Inspector
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
Reinhard Max Muhlmann, Past Master
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
Visalia ···············-·······-··No. 128.... Marvin O. Winings, Master.......................... 30.82
Mitchell Lunstra, Senior Warden
Theodore F. Thompson, Junior Warden
James Barnett Lawson, P. M. and Inspector 30.82
Frank Barbonl, Past Master
Gilbert R. Morris, Past Master
Nicolaus --··-----.No. 129.... F. Burritt Foster, Senior Warden................- 10.08
Woodbridge --·····-··-···No. 131....Palmer A. Wells, Master.............·-················ 7.94
Thomas L. Walker, Senior Warden
Oliver H. Brouillard, Junior Warden
W . Corell Smith, P. M. and Inspector........
7.24
Sincerity ·······-·--········-····No. 132.... Herbert Holt, Repres~ntatlve.......................... 32.90
Vacaville ...............___.No. 134.... Clyde W. Penaluna, Master.......................... 5.24
Ted A. Emmington, Senior Warden
Valley .............................. No. 135.... Wilbur F. Krenz, Senior Warden................
Ralph M. Foote, Assistant Grand Lecturer..
James Anderson Drace, P. M. and Inspector

7.68
7.68
7.68

Pacific ··---·····-·····--No. 136_.. Harry K. Wolff, Jr.. Master
Albert F. E. Hallett, Sr.. Senior Warden
Samuel C. Levin, Junior Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Herman W ertsch, Past Master
Crockett -··········-···-····-No. 139.... Stanley Newell Howell, Master
Ford Joseph Thornton, Senior Warden
Alf Kohn, Junior Warden
~a~l<i:rd White, Jr., P. M. and Inspector......
Wilham A.H. Fleischer, Past Master
Theodore Ernest Klein, Past Master
James Low, Past Master
Charles Silas McGlothlin, Past Master
Frederick J. Mahr, Past Master
Wilbert H. Mason, Past Master

36.80

Alamo ---··-·-···-··-No. 122.... R. F. Cutler, Master.·-····- ·--·······················
0. J. Wohlgemuth, Senior Warden
Clarence W. Ellsworth, Junior Warden
Paul F. Ruff, P. M. and Inspector......._.....
Charles G. Faisst, Past Master
Ralph M. Hinds, Past Master
Floyd L. Stephens, Past Master

1.70
1.70

Curtis ··········--·--····-No• 140.... Lowell 0. Duesler, Master.........- - -····-······
Grafton --··--·-··-······-·---No. 141.... Louis H. Roye, Senior Warden·-·····-····-····
Charlie J. McMurdo, Past Master

5.20
7.66

Sotoyome ......................•.No. 123....William C. Wallace, Senior Warden..........
Leland H. Dibble, Past Master

5.34

Franklin ···············-··-·····No. 143.... Edward T. Lyon, Master..·-········--·-············
Lyman Blaine Wright, Senior Warden
Robert McCrea Yelland, Junior Warden
Ray E. Burdg, P. M. and Inspector..............

8.54

Table Mountain ............ No. 124.... Kenneth E. Moyes, Master.·-··········-·············· 26.54
Lloyd P. Cornell, Past Master
James F. Presley, Past Master
LaFayette ··········-·-··-··No. 126....Warren Y. Hillard, Master.·-········-·--······· 4.18
Lloyd R. Jackson, Senior Warden
William C. Heatly, Past Master
Henry L. Singmaster, Past Master

Oriental -········--·-···--···..No. 144••.. Donald Taylor Owens, Master
David A. Pasini, Senior Warden
Arthur Jackson Swank, Junior Warden
·
Walter Edward Sanner, P. M. and Inspector
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master

7.24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

426
Name of Lodge

427

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

llepresentatives

Mileaae Allowed

Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
John C. Wiesner, Past Master
Vitruvius .......................,No. li5 .... 0rrin Buell. Senior Warden..........................
Robert Borges, Junior Warden
Abell ··········~····--·····'-·No. 146.... Frank A. Branson. Senior Warden..............
James L. Lindsey, Junior Warden
Elmer M. Hopper, P. M. and Inspector......

llepresentatives

9.04
9.04

Oakland

Eel River .............•.••.......No. 147.... Max A. Goble, Senior Warden.................... 32.78
Lee McLeod, Past Master
Lassen ···-··················-··-No. 149.... J. Wilbur Combes, Senior Warden.............. 38.10
Elmer Glen Van Tassell,
P. M. and In.specter•.••........•........-............. 38.10
Molino ······-- -···············No. 150.... Allen Randolph Frink, Senior Warden........ 26.68
Daniel Liddell. Junior Warden
Woodland .......:................No. 156.... Not Represented
8.86
Keystone -··-····-··-··- ···No. 161 .... Fred Helms, Representative.........·-················
35.26
Harmony ···-···················No. 164....Charles K. Smith, Senior Warden .................
Reynolds Edmiston, MasteWr d
Excelsior ··-·················-·No. 166....loseph
Ralph Edwin Flathmann. Senior ar en
Elnar Gliese Fredricksen, Junior Warden
Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master
Leslie E. Alt. Past Master
Joseph Clement Kohlbecher, Past Master
Walter Pybon, Past Master
Robert Taylor, Past Master
2.50
Alameda -········-·---··-_No. 167._Clark Redeker, Master.. --···························· 2.00
Redwood City ·······-··-···No. 168.... Emery L. Rionaz, Senior Warden................
Kenneth L. Steiner, Junior Warden

Elk Grove ··-··················No. 173.... Glen Murdoc Beeman, Master........................
Drytown ________...No. 174.... Lynn V. De Mille, Senior Warden....·-·······
No. 175 Ernest W. Lynn. Sr., Master........................
·
Antioch -·····················-- ·
····T. F. Brown, Jr., Senior Warden
George H. Rebstock, Past Master

No. o1 Lodll!

Clear Lake -···-··-······-No• 183.... Willet H. Shaul,
5.30
Past Master and Repreaentati~e
··············
Sierra Valley -··--·-.No. 184.._ Not Represented
18.14
Claiborne --···-··--·······No• 185...• Kenneth M. Moss Master..
Evening Star ··········-···No. 186.... Melvin Caloia S~ior Warden.-···········-··-- 41.48
Keith ---·-··-·-···....N o. 187._.Junior Wilson: Senior Warden.·················-· 6 32
·
James Ellis Bogle, Junior Warde~·-········--····

2.60

W. Demaree, Master
Mission ······-···········-······.No. 169.... Arthur
James D. Skidmore, Senior Warden
Geory_e A. Hansen, Past Master
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
Walter M. Smyk, Past Master

Name ol I.oclae

K. Wilson, Master
····-·-···············No· 188..-James
'Elmer F. Elsen, Senior Warden

Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Rue W. Sims, Past Master
Northern Light ...•....•.....No. 190._.Samuel Gaston Smith,
P. M. and Representative....•.......-······--·
T. Rowse, Master
George
Marin ················-········-·No• 191....
Joseph C. Meager, Senior Warden
Ernest H. McCaughan, Junior Warden
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Clinton T. Duffy, Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Russell H. Warden, Past Master
Santa Barbara ···-···-······No. 192.... Robert T. Austin, Master................................
Gordon E. McAdmzu, Senior Warden
Eugene I. Jones, Junior Warden
Loren E. Burner, Past Master
Albert B. Christiansen, Past Master
Edward G. Dodge, Past Master
Eliot Haberlitz, Past Master
Alfred W. Kincaid, Past Master
Ferndale -·-----No . 193..-James Neal Barnes, Master-··--·······- ···-····
Mountain View ·....---No. 194.-John E. Neff, Senior Warden....•.....·--··-····
Arno Ragghianti, Junior Warden
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Buckeye -·-····---····-No. 195_.• Milton H. Sharp, P. M. and Representative
San Simeon ··--···········No. 196•..• ~e\J:; !i?x:. ~~';'w;;d"~;;··.....................

1

8.74

9.44
4.12

54.30
······
Phoenix ··-···-··········-······.No. 178.... Alex T. MaltzbergeWr, Mdaater.·-···········-·
Lee I. Robb, Senior ar en
22.36
Mendocino ···--············No. 179..-Richard A. Werner, Senior Warden............ 3.04
No 180 Jay Coos Milner, Master....-··························
Petaluma
··-Harold Richard Jacobsen, Senior Warden ·
····--··-············ •
Norman P. Van Bebber, Past Master
Park A. Van Bebber, Past Master
4.28
No 181 Wilbur A. Martin, Master..............................
.an River
Russ1
Warden
Senior
Rab!novitz,
•••• Albert
'
···········--···
Carroll C. Doane, P. M. and Inspector..... . 4.18
9.26
No 182 John Ayers, Master..·-··········-···········-·········-···
"-b ckle
····Alfonzo R. Carrion, Junior Warden
···-·---···-·-· •
nc u

Wilmington ······--····No. 198.... C. A. Stark, Senior Warden..........................
William S. Wood, Junior Warden
·
Dwayne 0. Laraon, Put Muter
Thomas F. Mason, Past Master--·-············
Hartley --·-······--·······No• 199.... R. W. Harrell, Senior Warden....................
Ralph V. Devoto, Senior Grand Deacon......
. Guido de Ghetaldi, P. M. and Inspector ..... .
Truckee ···-··-·········..--.•.No. 200....J. D. Anderson, Master....•...................•.....•..,..
Sflveyvflle ---··--···-···No. 201.... Denton C. Barker, Master..............................
Chester 0. Cagle, Junior Warden
Herbert Pearson, Past Master
Pentalpha •. _.....:.....•••.•.. _No. 202.... Al L. Zehrung, Muter.·--·-·········· ···············
Earle Stevens, Senior Warden
Fred A. Lofvendahl, Junior Warden
Howard H. Arnold, Past Master
•
John M. Gordon, Past Master
Wllliam R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master..........
Clarence W. Hull, Past Master
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master

31.42

41.18

33.28
3.50
6.32
30.38
49.62
49.62
6.40
6.40

6.40
28.40
5.52
49.62

49.62

428
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Represeoutivcs

Mileage Allowed

e E. Dong, Maste r........·-··················Confidence -·---· -·····- No. 203.... Eugen
William H. Rabe, Senior Ward en
Fong Q. Ding, Past Maste r

8.74

W. Wilsin, Mast!!"·················-·······-··Salinas ---·-- ······· ··-No . 204.... Glen
W. George Mossier, Senior W!!rden

9.26

Maste r..............·-·················- 15.80
Olivet -···-·· ··-···· --·-N o. 205.... Joseph S. Babb,
8.32
ee, Senior Ward en....... _
Stanislaus ···············-·······No. 206.... Clifford D. Larrab
E. Kirk, Maste r....._............................ 51.76
Anaheim -··-·-·· ······-· -··No. 207.... HarvetyT.
Koehler, Senior Ward en
Gilber
Arthu r S. Osborn, Past Maste r
t S. Hlerlihy, Master.............................. 7.24
Rio Vista ---·-· ·--·-- No. 208.... ErnesM.
Green, Junior Ward en
Tom
Earl Stewart, P. M. and Inspector.............. 7.24
J. Williams, Maste r.....·-························ 31.52
King David 's ····-·········-·No. 209.... Kllne
Gail B. Goddard, Senior Ward en
William E. Snowman, Junior Ward en
Caspe r J. Weir, Jr., Past Maste r
on, Maste r.......................... 3.92
Friendship ··················-··No. 210.... Arthur W. Simps
Morns Thush , Senior Ward en
John F. Knight, P. M. and Inspector............ 3.92
Lawrence A. Campbell, Past Maste r
R. L. Norton, Past Maste r
William L. Ogden, Past Master
vVilliam P. Truran , Past Maste r
Jean, Jr., Senior W!ll'den.......... 7.32
San Benito -··-··· ·····-· No. 211.... Georgen W.
Herma A. Hermansen, Past Maste r
Albert W. Hinz, Past Maste r
, Senior Ward en
South San Francisco ....No. 212.... George L. Agosti , Junior Ward en
William J. Bozios
Roger Fernandez, Past Maste r
George Lastein, Past Maste r
Homer M. Rothery, Past Maste r
C. Etter, Junior Warde n.·-··-· ····-··· 43.42
San Buenaventura ........No. 214.... George E.
Hallowell, Past Maste r
Lyman
on L. Gelsert, Maste r
Oak Grove ··-····· ·-··-·- No. 215-D
T. James Carlile, Senior Ward en
George S. Mutch, Junior Ward en
·
William Nankervls, Jr., P. M. and Inspector
Homer A. Buck, Past Maste r
Otto H. Fisher, Past Maste r
Edwa rd A. Johnson, Past Maste r
and F. Lurie, Senior Ward en
Doric ··-·--· ···--·- ·-····N o. 216.. _Bertr
Ira W. Coburn, Past Master
tt Gipe, Senior Ward en...... _
Monterey ···-····- -··-·-·· ··No. 217.... Warre n Garre
Mosaic -········ ········· --··.No . 218.... Not Represented
Cerruti, Senior Ward en
Speranza Italiana -······- No. 219-.N ino M.
Icardo, P. M. and Inspector
John
Vito L. Bruno, Past Maste r
Jahn Isola, Past Maste r
Victor P. Sariotti, Past Maste r

9.94

Name of Lodge

Down ey

No. of Lodge

Representatives

429
Mileage Allowed

A9 62
ohn McLauchJan, Muter ....
·----·-----No. 220-JVirgil
M. McCown, Senior W~~d~-;;·············· ... .

Henry P. Lawhorn, P. M. and Inspector.... 49.62
rs, Senior Warde n. ........... _ 47.64
Inyo --·-- ··--·· -···N o. 221.... Car! H. Walte
s, Maste r...·--····· ··-···-· ····-·· 8.74
Roseville -······-· -·--··- ··No. 222-- Frank K. Odger
35.92
nney Maste r
Bakersfield ···-··--··-·········No. 224.... William M. McKe
Lee 0. Thomas, Senio r Ward en-···· ···-··-- -Lloyd E. Myers, Junior Ward en
. 37.86
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master.........
Orville L. Coburn, P. A. and Inspector...._ 35.92
Albert E. Burton, Past Maste r
Mike S. Oldershaw, Past Maste r
T. Mathiesen, Maste r·
Searl
225.-.
Brooklyn ··--····-·····-·-···No.
Kenneth W. Sheide, Senior Warde n
Robert E. Fites, Junior Ward en
Roy S. Lenthall, P. M. and Inspector
Roy F. Anderson, Past Master
Bernard D. Bungarz, Past Maste r
George E. Home, Past Maste r
Irving Magnes, Past Maste r
Eugene S. May, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Maste r
rt Arthu r Nuding, Master
-Hube
..
226
No.
·····-·
·--··-·
San Mateo
George Howa rd Cardiff, Senior Ward en
Arthur William Johnson, Junior Ward en
J. R. Eubanks, Past Maste r
Richard E. Giesin, Past Maste r
Westl ey Pigmond Jones, Past Maste r
Clarence C. Smith, Past Maste r
eeney, Senior Wlll'den.... 6.16
Athens ···-·-· ·---··· ----N o. 228.... Howard C. McSw
Gus A. Haussler, Past Master
Pierce, Mas ter·- -- ··---·· -··-·- 2.70
Solano --·-···-·---~----·No. 229.... Edwln B. Mini,
Jr., Senior Ward en
Henry A.
Robert 0. Gloeckner, Junior Ward en
Harry vV. Brown, Past Maste r
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Maste r
Senio r Ward en.............-....... 11.50
North Butte ..........._ ..•...No. 230.... Wilbu r Green,
Assistant Grand Lecturer 11.50
bell,
Clair B. Ca_mp
Joseph H. White , P. M. and Inspector........ 11.50
, Senior Ward en................- H.26
Covelo •......................••_No. 23L.J oseph L. Millet
T. Crabtree, Maste r.......•······-···········-··· 37.42
Janesville ················-·-···No• 232•..• John
Floyd H. Gill, Junior Ward en
Calistoga ...,•.•- .•.:..•.- .•No. 233.. _Not Represented
Hope ····················-·-··-··No. 234.... Not Represented
Surprise Valley -·---- -No. 235.... Not Represented
g, Senior Ward en................ ' 8.86
Hills Ferry ············-····-NO. 236._. Winn I. Giddin er, Junior Ward en
Clifford P. Weim
William S. Thompson, P. M. and Inspector 8.86
, Master............................ 34.00
Guadalupe ··-····· ··-····· -No. 237•..• Douglas H. Martin
Harry S. Smith, Senio r Ward en
Joe 0. Elliott, Junior Ward en
Henry R. Gewe, Past Maste r
John Jenkins, Past Maste r

Name of Loclae

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

430

No. of Lodae

llepresmutiftl

Mileage Allowed

Colusa -·-···················--N o. 240....William R. Dunham, Senior Warden........ _ 10.88
Santa Ana _
_No. 241-Mason E. Teter, Muter..·-········--·····-·--·· · 5258
,--R. J. Vlllagrand. Senior Warden
Aug_ustus H. Allen.
Aaslstant Grand Lec:turer---·····-···---- 52.58
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Robert J. White, Paat Muter
No.
242..-~oseph
B. Sudduth, Master---········-·············- 41.18
Magnolia ····-·············-···
ethro C. Moore, Senior Warden
loyd M. Shook, Junior Warden
Ralph C. Hine, Past Master
Orange R. McNall, Past Master
Ralph B. McNall, Past Master
Charles B. Weaver, Past Master
No 243.... Max C. Paine, Master
Eucalyptus ··-·················· •
Arthur Woodruff, Senior Warden
Charles H. Welsh, Junior Warden
Elmer Gaylord Quinn, P. M. and Inspector
Nelson E. Clemens, Past Master
·
Walter Flierl, Past Master
Fred H. Horwood, Past Master
Anthony Taylor, Past Master
No. 2+L-Alfred Olsen, Master
Alcatraz ---·-·····-···WUliam G. Searcy, Senior Warden
Harold B. Lindblad, Junior Warden
Lowell K. Bain, Past Master
Vernon J. Coley, Past Master
Beverley C. Sutliff, Past Master
_No. 245.... Howard R. ·Allard, P. M. and Representative 23.72
Laurel -·-·················--·
...No 246 Cecil Albert Amberson, Master...·-·············· . 52·ff
Pomona ·--'·······-·•
- Elihu Grant Johnson, Senior W~
Leonard A. Holk, Junior Warden
Jerome A. Ludden, Past Master
'
No 247•..• Paul Harold Lacy, Master---··············· --·····Fresno -····-·.......•••·•·····• •
Harry D. Watkins, Senior Warden
Chester W. Warlow, Past Grand Master..
A. W. Carlson, Past Master
Dan B. Hurlbut, Past Master
Harry F. White, Past Master
No. 248-Robert McGarva, P. M..
Alturas -····-····-··-·Inspector and Representative..........----··
N 250 Eugene H. Johnson. Master............................
Adln -··············-······-·· o.
····Sam B. Washington, Senior Warden
No 253 Alfred Leroy Hayes, Senior Warden..........
Landmark ··············-······• '
·-Paul Stephens, Jr., Junior Warden
Reading --···-·-·········-..N0 •
Welcome -·-··-··-·····

27.20
27.20

40.78
39.86
7.76

254 William H. Schooler, Master---········-·- -- · 30.42
····Russell E. DeForest, Senior Warden
Albert P. Ross, Past Master.......................... 30·42

...:.....N0 255 whn Herman Lowe, Senior Warden........- .. 30.62

·-.Ralph Dawd , P. M. and Inspector...:···· 30.62
• N. Hubbard. Past Master
_...N 256 Richard Dell McClure, Master.·-··-·-·-·· -·· 7.24
Lodi --·······..-·-········
o.
····J. Kenneth Bybee, Senior Warden
'f. Glenn Wright, Pa,st Master
•

Name of Lodp

No. of Loclse

llepresentatives

431
Mileqc Allowed

Penrhyn ··-··-··-··-·-··--·No . 258...• Norman P. Sanderson, Master......................
George Sanderson, Past Master

Evergreen ·······-···---···No. 259.-.Herbert J. Hackett, Master•......·-········-·····--Jack R. Freeland. Senior Warden
Willard G. Babcock, P. M. and Inspector..
Ralph A. Baker, Past Master
Harold J. McLaughlin, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master..................
John J. Vanderzyl, Past Master
King Solomon's ········-····No. 260.... Chester E . Lonkey, Master ·
Wayne C. Casteel, Senior Warden
Thomas W. Chinn, Junior Warden
Henry_ E. Bennett, Sr .. Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Robert L. Dreyfus, Past Master
Ulysses G. Patropulos, Past Master
Albert 0. Rier, Past Master
John E. Werry, Past Master
Tuscan ··················-····-No. 261....John Bryan Mendenhall, Representative......
Lompoc ··-···············-····-·No. 262..•. Robert D. Speers, Junior Warden................
Hesperian ····-·-··-·-······-No. 264.... William Douglas Wisener, Master..............
Elmer Edward Voight, Senior Warden
Daniel DeWitt Meredith, Junior Warden
Floyd H. Watson, P. M. and Inspector......
_
Henry Drashner, Past Master
Orland ·············-······-·····No. 265_.•John C. Foley, Senior Warden................•....•
Northeast ·······-···········....No• 266-.Henry Kober, Grand Bible Bearer..·-·······-···
Galt ·-························--···No. 267.... Not Represented
Durant ·-·········-······-····No. 268.... Charles R. Ratkovich, Senior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P. M. and Inspector
Roy V. Crowell, Past Master
Gus A. Griesche, Past Master
Ra!J>h E. Hoyt, Past Master
B. J. Rose, Past Master
Olive Branch ·······-···---~--No. 269.... Vedder Robert Moffatt, Muter.....·-·············
William F. Harris, Senior Warden
Snow Mountain ·····-···---No. 27L_Charles A. Butler,
P. M. and Representative........................

9.54
54.30
54.30
54.30

10.18
36.46
34.02
34.02
24.90
43.76

30.82
15.48

Pasadena ········'··-···-·····No• 272._.. Leonard A. Taylor, Master.............·-···········- 50.70
T. William Heidner, Senior Warden
Roy R. Jordan, Junior Warden
Anchor ............................No. 273.... Lambert H. Brummeler, Master.......·-·-········-· 49.62
Wtlliam R. Mayo, Jr., Senior Warden
Theo Newtson, Past Master
Ralph K. Pierson, Past Master.......... ______ .:.... 49.62
Arroyo ·······-··············-···No. 274.... Robert B. Yager, Junior Warden.................. 32.62
Harry E. Davis, Past Master
Sam P. Starfas, Past Master
Oakdale ·-·---········-··········No. 275.... Hughie C. Coslet, Senior Warden...... ·-·····' 9.38
James A. Coslet, Junior Warden
Selma -·-··········-············No. 277.... Norman R. Peterson, Senior Warden-.........
Paul Nielsen, Past Master

r.

28.54

432
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

433

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allowed

Southern California ...... No. 278.... Adolphe R. E. Roome, Master......................
Willis F. McComas, Senior Warden
Elven R. Davis, Junior Warden
John M. Askin, Past Master
Frank Galvery, Past Master
Charles T. Medler, Past Master
Harold V. Spender, Past Master
Hanford -····-·-·······--····No. 279.... Edwin H. Linville, Senior Warden..............
Donald C. Jensen, Junior Warden
Madera ·······-·····--··-No. 280.... Boyd B. Givens, Senior Warden..................
Arthur L. Arnold, Junior Warden
Mt. Shasta ···········-··-·-··No. 281.... Marion H. Greenhalgh, Master......................
William C. Gover, P. M. and Inspector....
Callayoml ··-····--····-·..No. 282.... Ray F. Moody, Jr .. Master............................
South West .........•..........No. 283 .... Thomas E. Anderton, Senior Warden....... .
Robert H. Beetlestone, Past Master
Charles R. Costello, Jr., Past Master

49.62

30.02
25.60
29.48
29.48
5.00
59.78

San Miguel ·······-······-···No. 285 .... Maurice C. Getzelman,
P. M. and Representative.......................... 27.88
Orin Compton, P. M. and Inspector.......... 31.52
Paso Robles ........•...........No. 286.... Lawton D. Champion, Senior Warden........ 28.68
Winnedumah ·-··-···········No. 287.... Richard M. Marvin, Senior Warden.......... 45.22
Wilfred W. Partridge, P. M. and Inspector 45.22

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Dunsmuir ···-················--No. 297 _.Arthur Cro~e, Senior Warden...................... 34.98
Liberty ···---..........- ...No. 299.... John Webster Lamb, Master.:.......................... 3.64
Edgar Levi Wilson, Senior Warden
Redlands -··..,···-····---.No. 300_Eugene R. Johnson, Senior Warden............ 54.98
Roy E. Renner, Junior Warden
Kenneth R. Dowell, Past Master
Merlyn E. Grecian, Past Master
Clement F. Patton, Past Master
Ontario ···-··············---..No. 301.... John Philip Hamilton, Senior Warden........ 52.84
Willie Ray Bilke, Junior Warden
James G. Galanis, Sr., Past Master
Santa Lucia ·····-·-····....No. 302.- Not Represented
Porterville ..........•..........•No. 303..•. ~lvd~ L~s;:':S~~. ~~.1\v;~d;~................. 32.68
Obed W. Carr, Past Master
Reedley ......~.....................No. 304.... Robert M. Schearin, Master..........................
Azusa ···-····--·----No. 305.... Frank H. Shomber, Master............................
Richard E. Lindsay, Senior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, P. M. and Inspector..
John Arleigh Lee, Past Master
Ashlar ..............................No. 306.... Delbert H. Standley, Master..........................
William C. Hawkes, Senior Warden
Robert W. Nicol, P. M. and Inspector........

29.14
51.64
51.64
54.30
54.30

Santa Monica -·-·-·····-·No. 307.... Ralph Pratt, Master..·-·····'··--..--··-················ 49.62
Mont S. Foster, Senior Warden
Lawrence A. Smith, Past Master
Monrovia ........................No. 308.... C. Richard Dreyer, Master...·-····················· 51.08
J. Donald Cameron, Senior Warden
H. Victor Clark, Past Master
Walter E. Irwin, Past Master
Clark P. Malcho, Past Master

10.88
10.88
55.60
East Gate -·-··-·-·-····-··No. 290.... John Allen Crosby, Master·-····-·····-·········· 49.62
Roy Gilbert McFarland, Senior Warden
.
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master.......·-···· 49.62
Robert E. Esterbrook, Past Master
Frank Sylvester Moore, Past Master
Emlyn W. Reese, Past Master
Santa Paula ................. _.No. 291.... Paul Archie Wilson, Master................-........ 44.32
Robert Allen Hardison, Senior Warden
Robert Amos Stetler, Junior Warden
Gustav Adolph Quick, Past Master
Los Gatos ····--···-·····-··-No. 292.... Bernard J. Cline, Master................................ 5.18
Harrison M. Walker, Senior Warden
,
Loren Alton Lloyd, P. M. and Inspector.... 5.18
Fred Berryman, Past Master
Orange Grove -·······--·No. 293.... Harold W. Bushman, Master........................ 51.88
Orval L. Van Dyke, Senior Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master........ 6.86
John S. Lampert, Past Master

Sisson ..............................No. 310.... William W. Allen, Junior Warden.............. 36.12
Los Banos ...................... No. 312.... Philip C. Wilson, Master..................·- ···-···· 10.46
Tehachapi ........................No. 313.... Earl E. Whitney, Master................................ 39.82
John H. Birt, Senior Warden
Henry H. Bartholomew, Junior Warden
H.J. Beauford, Past Master
George W. Bennett, Past Master
L. T. Jenkins, Past Master
A. R. Keeley, Past Master
G. Koutroulis, Past Master

Traver ··-···-·-···;·····--···No. 294.... Herbie A. Rouch, Senior Warden................ 28.94
Clare R. Nelson, Past Master

Temescal ..._...................No. 314.... Grant H. Palmer, Master................................ 55.48
Clarence L. Koch, Senior Warden

5.00
59.78
Silver Gate -·-···············No. 296.... Karl J. Bauman, Master.----·..··--·······-····
Henry F. LaRose, Senior Warden
Oakley D. North, Sr., Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, P. M. and Inspector.....- .•• 59.78
Warren W. Fitch, Past Master

Norwalk __ ...........-·-··-···No. 315.... Charles D. Dorman, Master.......................... 49.62
Edgar Groves, Senior Warden
Lloyd Galbraith, Past Master

Ma:1:well ·······-···..............No. 288.... Chester Detlefsen, Senior Warden................
~eland E. Wallace, P. M. and Inspector....
G. Habenicht, Representative........
Howard
....
289
Elsinore •.........•- .............No.

Mt. Jackson -·-···············No. 295.... Alfonse Gonllottl, Junior Warden................

Delano .................. ·-···-·No. 309.... ~~;dW. k1a1!~~!':if~r ~~d~~-··················· 33.38
Marion L. Smith, Junior Warden

Sanger -····---............_No. 316.... Robert L. Vernon, Master.-.......................... 28.10
Fallbrook ---··-·-No. 317.... Do~las Hamilton, Representative................ 57.66

434
Name of Lod,e

No. of Lodse

Jlepresentatives

Mileage All-ed

Emmanuel ·············- -···No; 318.... Ralph W. Carlson, Maater.............................. 12.66
Hollenbeck _....................No. 319.... Frank C. Markley,_Ma.ster...-······-··-··· ······- 49.62
Roy T. Kiele, P. M. and Inspector-·-··········· 49.62
South Gate ... _.................No. 320.-Carl W. Gross, Muter........................·:·········· 49.62
•
Edward J. Olsen, Senior Warden
Clark F. Andrews, Past Master
Mark A. Green, Past Master
David H. Terry, Past Master
Alisa! ..............................No. 321.... Willard C . Bartsch, Ma.ster.......-.................. 3.36
Andrew J. Pearce, Senior Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
L. Marriott, Ma.ster.............................. 49.62
James
..
322..
.
Alhambra ·······-·..·-·-·-··No
Gordon C. L. Ross, Senior Warden
·
Joseph M. Yule, Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
...... 51.22
Whittler ·-·······-··-·-·····.No. 323.... Laurence L. Raggio, Ma.ster...._................
George C. Abrahamson. Senior Warden
Clarence W. Peck, Past Master
.
Ludlow, Muter-..·············-········ 50.66
Corona ··-···············-·······No. 324.... George A. Morrison,
Senior Warden
Charles D.
Alfred W. Talley, Junior Warden
· J. Arnold Davis. Past Master
Consuelo ............... _.... _,_No, 325.... Irvin Washingt on Jones, Senior Warden...... 57.66
Needles

435

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

5

Warden...... 51.·~
···········--............No. 326.... Lewis Moore Hedgpath, Senior
Carl C. Mikesell, P. M. and Inspector.......... .,. .,..,.

Long Beach ············-······No. 327.... Carl D. Morton, Muter.._ ............................. 49.62
Clinton M. Stickney, Senior Warden
Clark H. Shaw, P. M. and Inspector.............. 49.62
John H. Ferguson, Past Ma.ster...................... 49.62
Herbert C. Polhill, Past Master
Redondo ..........................No. 328.... 0ris F. Snyder, Master...-............................... 49.62
Harry A. Bradhurst, Senior Warden
William Frederick Martin, Junior Warden
George S. Fairbrother, Past Master
Leon G. Kelley, Past Master
Oliver J. Lewis, Past Master
Samuel Pinkerton, Past Master
Louis A. Tallman, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master
John R. Ward, Past Master
Vallee de France ........·....No. 329-Paul Foncel, Master·······-·······-····-················ 49.62
Jules Bouyere, Senior Warden
Charles A. Thomasset, P. M. and Inspector 49.62
Warden.. 380.52
Kilauea ............................No. 330.... Harold Reynolds Warner, SeniMoraster..........
380.52
Charles Alfred Shepherd, Past
10.08
..............
..................
Muter......
PacUlc Grove .........•........No. 331....Roy R. Benge,
Claude Bush, Senior Warden
Arch Balchin, P. M. and Inspector................ 10.08
.............. !9 :6~
San Pedro ........................No. 332..•. Whn c. Stewart, Maater..,_..............
ohn Ramsey,_ P. M. and Inspector..•..........-. .,.
illiam H. Hall, Past Master

96

Alta ·························--····No. 333.... William J. Banta, Mester.................... -~.. -

40.34

~ame o1 Lodae

No. of Lodae

Jlepresenialives

Mileqe Allowed

Covina ••..••...•.........•••••..•.No. 334.... Andrew R. Lynn, Senior Warden...•••·--··-·
Roy A. Russell, Junior Warden
··
West Gate - ..........._.No. 335.... Jay Edward Baum, Ma.ster..........·-······-·······
Milton Meyer Loesennan, Senior Warden
John M. Hayden, Past Maater
Fellxl. Jonas, Past Master
Max lchtenstein. Past Master
Fruitvale ...- ...................No. 336.... Harold Erastus Fellows, Master
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.. P. M. and ~mpector
Paul Armond Brom, Past Master
Russell Carl Horstmann, Pa..t Muter
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Harold Oliver Sjoberg, Past Ma..ter
Harvey Kirk Taylor, Past Maater
Carquinez __...........- ••- •• No. 337.... Glen N. Whitson, Ma.ster..:___··----···
Charles R. Morton, P. M. and Inspector......
William S. Brunning, Put Master
Thomas H. Cotton. Past Master
Charles A. Gray, Past Master
A. Cooper, P. M. and Representative......
E.
....
338
San Jacinto ......................No.
White, Senior Warden........................
M.
L.
Fullerton ..........................No. 339....
William T. Rodger, P. M. and Inspector......
C. Stanely Chapman. Past Master...·-·-····-·
W. L. Currie, Past Master
Master.·-· ··········-··-········
Oxnard ··-···-·············-···No· 34L•• Ernest O. Allison,Senior
Warden
Carl E. Mumper,
Louis H. Lipacomb, Junior Warden
Frank Harrington. P. M. and l1111pector........
L. Biddison, Ma.ster......•..•.·-······-···
Thelmas
....
343
o.
--············N
San Fernando
Clark H. Kirkham, Senior Warden

51.6f
49.62

2.42
2.70

58.46
51.54
51.54
51.54
44.22
H.22
45.90

Starr King ··•-···-·-- ·No. 344.... Homer E. Stewart, Master
Charles Becker, Senior Warden
Harold E. Kren, Junior Warden
Charles M. Wollenberq,_Past Grand Master
Halman L. Wayne, P. M. and Inspector
Alfred E. Breslauer, Past Master
Carl Cohn, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Charles 0. Munson, Past Master
Brentwood ···········-·- --·No. 345•.•• Fred R. Abbott, Master..........·-·····-··············Fabin F. Richart, Jr., Senior Warden
Oren A. Howard, Junior Warden
Russell A. Partridge, Past Ma.ster

5.06

Palo Alto --~---·····-·-No. 346.... ~~rb!~~-ss~:~~a::~;"\v~;d~~--- .. ·-·········
Ralph S. Brokaw, Junior Warden
Adam B. Morten. Grand Chaplain................
Robert N. Walker, P. M. and Inspector..•.....
L. Harold Anderson, Pa..t Master
Leonard R. A villa, Past Master
George E. King, Past Master

3.28

Ma.sterW rde
McKinley ..................._.No. 347.... C. Clare Thtomass, enior
a n
Clifton B. ones,
Floyd M. ilty, Junior Warden

5.18
3.28

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

Representatives

Name of Lodae

Rolla L. Eubanks, P. M. and Inspector
Fred R. DeBarrows, Past Master
Walter T. Helms, Past Master
K. H. McCutcheon, Past Master
Leon A. Michel, Past Master
John D. Williams, Past Master
San Bernardino .....•....._No. 348.... Clare C. Layton, Master_.,__ .._················-···· 54.30
.
William C. Roberts, Senior Warden
Walter L. Culver, Jr .. Past Master
Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
Sequoia ······-···--···No. 349.... Charles A. Rummel, Master
Frank D. Gatter, Jr., Senior Warden
Ralph W. York, Junior Warden
Henry S. Savage, Jr., P. M. and Inspector
Owen R. Andker, Past Master
Ernest A. Allen, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Palestine ··········-···-······-No• 351.-Robert P. Tuttle, Master•..-····················-·Benjamin R. Jordan, Senior Warden •
Henry E. Lestmann. Past Master
Sunset ······-·········-·····-····No. 352..-John H. Hardy, Master...- ...............................
Harry M. Swanson, Senior Warden
Rollie W. Miller, Past Grand Master............
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master..........·-·······
Arnold M. Cannan, Past Master
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
Pinole

·······-·····················No. 353.... ~h:s~e~c:ci:t ~:i':w~~<l;;;-····'·······-···

49.62
49.62
49.62

······-····-······---No. 354.... Grant Whitaker, Master

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Buena Park ·-·--·····--·-No. 357.... Kenneth B. Jones, Master•.........·-··············-··· 51.54
Edwin A. Robinson, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems, P. M. and Inspector................ 51.76
Golden State ·········--·--·No. 358.... Felix L. Dauriac, Master...:···········-··-··-······· 49.62
William P. Kretschmer, Senior Warden
Winfield R. Cram, Past Master
Charles Marsh Good, Past Master
Maurice G. Henn, Past Master
Edgar·w. Otto, Past Master
Loyalton ···-··········-···--·Ni:J; 359.... Not Represented
San Francisco ········-······No. 360.... Everett E. Burnworth, Master
Herbert B. Dean, Senior Warden
L. C. Daugherty, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary
Charles C. Brewer, Past Master
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Charels D. Johnson, Past Master
Walter A. Parker, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Past Master
Alfred C. Skaife, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master
Ross K. Roper, Past Master

49.62

Fort Bragg ·-·······-·····-···No. 361 .... William R. Rodd, Senior Warden.................. 22.26
Harry Burrows, P. M. and Inspector............ 22.26

2.00

Charity .....................•:....•No. 362.... ~~~j:F~H~~:~~. :f~: ~:::::-·············
A. C. Currie, Past Master..............................

Howard C. Nicholson, Junior Warden
Presidio

437

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Harry Parker McKean, Senior Warden
George Jered Blodgett, Junior Warden
Joseph Myron Ruggiero, P. M. and Inspector
Alexander Louis Croce, Past Master
Eric Ragnor Johnson, Past Master
William D. Verbarg, Past Master
Edward Henry Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ···············-·····No. 355.... Harold A. Mayer, Master.............................. 49.62
Robert R. Gilmore, Jr., Senior Warden
Wallace H. Beaudry, Junior Warden
Samuel Steelman, P. M. and Inspector......... . 49.62
William B. Ogden, Past GTand Master....... . 49.62
Leo E. Anderson, Past Master
John T. Bond, Past Master
Ralph L. Logan, Past Master
S. A. Macdonald, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Neil Tate, Past Master
Mill Valley ··········-----No. 356._Albert W. Miller, Master
Ralph E. Brott, Senior Warden
Melvin J. Schallock, Junior Warden
Kent 0. Seymour, P. M. and Inspector
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Alfred M. Arenz, Past Master
Thomas F. Bagshaw, Past Master

f

4.62
6.32

Berkeley ·······-·················No. 363.... Edward S. Ross, Master
William H. Adams, Senior Warden
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Willits ·······-···-··········--No. 365.... George M. Jamieson, P. M. and Repr .......•.•• 11.08
Las Palmas ............•......•No. 366.... R. D. Hargrave, Senior Warden.................... 27.20
T. E. Dispennette, Junior Warden
J. A. Hopper, Past Master
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
South Pasadena ..............No. 367.... Giles L. Pellerin, Senior Warden........-........ 50.66
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity

···········-·················No. 368.... Homer E. Rathbun, Master............................ 49.62

Arthur J. Bullock, Senior Warden
William E. S. Jarrett, Junior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Assistant Grand Lecturer........ 49.62

Lloyd E. Clendening, Master.......................... . 49.62
0 cean P ark •·•····•············No. 369····John
A. Gilkey, Senior Warden
Dwight C. Freeman, P. M. and Inspector.... 49.62
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
William D. Tucker, Past Master
Frank C. Wolff, Past Master

Name of Lod8e

Amity

No. of lodF

llepftsentadftl

Mileqe Allowed

-·--················--No. 370...• Duncan
August L. Rommel, MasWter d
S. Ellis, Senior ar en
Lewis H. Johnson, Junior Warden
Maurice E. Coffey, P. M. and Inspector
Paul A. Pfteuger, Assistant Grand Treasurer
Nelson D. Christenson, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerich, Past Master
Raymond M. Henry, Past Master
Rudolph F. Lange, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Nathaniel 0. Slate, Past Master

Le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371

439

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

438

Harold F. Lishman, Senior Warden.............. .lt8.45
Alexander Douglas Potts, P. M. and lnspr.. 348.45
Gustav C. Bechert, Past Master

Name of lodF

No. of lodF

Representatives

Mlleqe Allowed

Fillmore ...................._ •.No. 379.... Robert E. Linvill, Master................................ H.82
erry W. Garrison, Senior Warden
oseph B. Higgins, Junior Warden

J

Huntington Beach ..•.......No. 380.... David D. Winter, Master-...........................- . 49.62
Fred R. Swartz, Senior Warden
A. F. Lockett, Past Master
Oceanside ........................No. 381....M. Elmo Nearoff, Master............••·-········-·- · 56.46
Frank 0. Bradbury, Senior Warden
Marion E. Martin, Junior Warden
Kenneth C. Stanley, P. M. and Inspector.... 56.46
William R. Cregar, Past Master
Highland Park ................No. 382.... Charles W. Wagner, Senior Warden............ 49.62
Albert R. Bennison, Senior Warden
Harold F. Weller, Past Master

·
No. 372.. Philip F. Lucas, Master...•.·-·········-··············· 49.62
Gardena -·········-·····-····
- Horold C. McLendon. Senior Warden
·
LeRoy W. Schlaegel, Junior Warden
George Cunningham, Past Master
William W~lton Pitman, Past Master
Keigh W. Schlaegel, Past Master.................. 49.62
John G. Snider, Past Master

Oros! ................................No. 383.... Bemhard Alvin Ruth, Jr., Senior Warden....

West Los Angeles ...•...•No. 373••-Harold L. Shekell, Master.·-···········-············· 49.62
Norton Langford, Senior Warden
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master

Coalinga ........................••No. 387.... James Orville Bailey, Senior Warden............
Robert H. Frank, Junior Warden

Philip Bovero, Master
Jewe1 ·-··~-··----·-·····No• 374-William
A. Van Omum, Senior Warden
Robert W. Sinai, Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson. Grand Organist
Herbert H. Schultz, P. M. and Inspector
J. H. Adams, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master ,
A. R. Engle, Past Master
Thomas Parry, Past Master
Willard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Richmond ······-·-·"'

No. 375-Paul H. Freiermuth, Master
Walter F. Beige!, Senior Warden
Albert D. Elledge, Junior Warden
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
Myrton W. Erickson, Past Master
James L. Halley, Past Master
Rupert F. Johnson, Past Master
Alfred T. Morris, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
Lauritz J. Schell, Past Master

Francis Drake ···-···········No. 376.... George Elmlo HFall, Mastsernlor Warden
William van ramer, e
John David Dean, Junior Warden
E. Haynie, Master.....·-···-·······--·· 51.22
Artesla -··--·······-··-No. 377...• William
Harold R. Whitney, Senior Warden
378.... Harry P. Heidenreich, Master....-·-······....... 49.62
Mizpah ········-·····-·······-··Nn
....
George W. Perkins, Senior Warden
Hugh H. Farnham, Junior Warden
Charles W. Lunsford, P. M. and Inspector•. 49.62

29.94

El Centro ···················-···No. 384.... Norhert P. Tester, Master.......•......·--·········· 70.24
Logan R. Pulliam, Senior Warden
Charles Henry Knights, P. M. and Inspector 70.24
Dinuba ···········-······-···--No· 385.... Earl F. Hult~uist, Senior Warden.......·-··-· 29.54
Clarence L. Fraser, P. M. and Inspector...... 29.54
32.78

Parnassus ........................No. 388.... Karl F. Loenig, Master
Philip R. Chapin, Senior Warden
Carl L. Allen, Junior Warden
James E. Finley, Past Master and Inspector
Joseph C. Durham, Past Master
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Homer D. Robertson, Past Master
James E. White, Past Master
Palos Verdes ..................No. 389.... Milo H. Fernald, Jr., Master-........................ 49.62
Richard S. Abramson, Senior Warden
James F. Dougan, Past Master

······-··················No· 390.... Carl Claud Snider, Senior Warden................

73.03

East Belt ············----~-.No. 391....Gamet Herman Bergman, Master..................
Wallace Howland Fiske, Senior Warden

12.76

Imperial

Charles F. Maynard, Past Master
J. Stanley Watkins, Past Master

West Lake ·················-·-No. 392.... Lloyd V. Smith, Master·-·····-·············-·........ 49.62
Clifford M. Hokom, Senior Warden
John A. Sickenberger, Junior Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Stanley Cowin, Past Master
Clyde E. Hopkins, Past Master
Charles W. Jackson, Past Master
Charles E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master.......--................. 49.62
Robert C. Peyton, Past Muter...................... 49.62
Charles K. Slack, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

440
Name of J.od&e

No. of Lodge

llepre:seoiatives

Mileage Allowed

Balder ·------···-·····- ····No. 393.... Fred M. Hartwick, Jr., Master
Roger S. Gowan, Junior Warden
.
Alfred Berglof, Past Master
V./alter Blomberg, Past Matser
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master
........................ 49.62
University ···- ····--···-No. 394.... William E. Patterson, Master
Clarence Dunbar, Senior Warden
William T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master
Myron E. Smith, Past Master
..·-··-···························- 9.38
Earl P. Heidt, Maater
Turlock ·····················-·····No• 395····Robert
B. Gartin, Senior Warden
E. Glenn Drake, Past Master
Reynold S. Tillner, Past Master
Apollo --·······-_: _____ No. 396__ Qarence L. White, Master
Karl D. Haberern, Senior Warden
David P. Russell, Junior Warden
L. Keith Barnard, Past Master
Edwin G. Nelson, Past Master
Clifford H. Noyes, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
No 397 Charles W Tritt, Master................................ 49.62
····Clayton H."O!iver, Senior Warden
•
Thomas D. Brown, Past Master
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
3.92
Cole, Maater.......·-···-······--··
Fraternity -·-··-···············No. 399.... William James
Ray W. Mcintyre, P. M. and Inspector........ 3.92

n'-lng Light
IUli

·············--···

MasWter d
Burlingame ··········-·····-N o. 400.... Paul Theodore Hotchkiss,
William James Brosby, Senior ar en
Elverton Blakney Stark, Junior Warden
S. Leslie Hawken, P. M. and Inspector
Milford B. Armstrong, Past Master
Willlam Wilkin, Past Master
Dopp, MasteMr
Bay View ·-··'-·······-····N o. 401.... Eugene H. Triggs,
Past aster
Arthur H.
F. W. Wetmore, Past Master
·················- 72.36
No 7...02 Earl C. Heatwole, Mastrr·-··········
' Br wley
····Terence L. Whitington, Senior Warden
-·····-·······-····-·· •
a
Yerba Buena ...................No. 403.... Walter V. Durst, Master
Hugh L. Burnett. Senior Warden
·
Darrell W. Lowder, Junior Warden
Carroll A. Trefts, Past Master
Glendora .......- .......:... _..No. 404.... Everett C. Shipman, Master..·-···--···········-···
John F. Wolf, Senior Warden

51.88

49.62
·-·······-·······-Mon eta ···········-··-··········.No• 405.... Louis A.H. Brinker, Master.....
Warden
Senior
Bodenhamer,
Cecil E.
Louis L. Cilnningham, P. M. and Inspector.. 49.62
Arthur L. Bell, Past Master
Lee D. Mathews. Past Master
George F. Watrous, Past Master
Warden........ 49.62
Burbank '...... ·-··--··-····...No . 406_.. Laurence Oliver Trim, Senior
Joseph David Lamphier, Junior Warden

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

llepre:seotati•e:s

441
Milease Allowed

La Mesa ·······-··········--···No. 407.... Wilber A. McBride, Master................·-········· 60.38
Austin D. Hinck, Senior Warden
Lyle H. Williams, Junior Warden
A. Jolly Benbrook, Past Master
Sierra Madre ...............-.No. 408.... Harry B. Humphreys, Master......-................ 50.66
James W. Moore, Senior Warden
Henry Vis, Junior Warden
J. Wriston, Senior Warden................ 348.45
Arthur
....
409
No.
··········-···········
Honolulu
Robert Edgar, Junior Grand Steward........... 348.45
Charter Rock ................•.No. 410.... Stanley C. Jackson, Senior Warden
Delmar G. Bailard, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Clare W. Wilson, Sr., Past Master
William D. Wisdom, Past Master
Perris -·-·-···-···-·-··· ·-·No. 411....P. W. Forthun, Junior Warden............·-······· 55.30
R.H. Spencer, Past Master
Calexico ······--··-··-···__ No. 412.._ T. E. Pledger, P. M. and Representative:..... 74.10
Arlington ··-···-··-·······-N o. 414.... George B. Richards, Master..................·-····-· 54.30
Frank T. Kester, Senior Warden
Carl F. Peters, P. M. aD:d Inspector.............. 49.62
Silver Trowel ··-·-··-··No. 415._Irvin Shulkin, Senior Warden..·-·········-···· 49.62
Van A. Gatewood, Junior Warden
Lindsay -·-··-····-··-···No. 416.... A. A. Daniells. Master..•.••....·-············-········· 31.88
C. M. Scott, Senior Warden
W. H. Lyon, Junior Warden
Clovta ···-·----···. ..No. 417_Leonard Edwin Matthews, Senior Warden.. 27.90
Julius C. Galliano, Past Master
George Edward Talbert, Past Master
Elysian ··-·-·······--···--NQ. 418.... Gordon Calvin Robinson, Master._............... 49.62
James Medie Hammack, Senior Warden
Leonard Deen Tankersley, Junior Warden
Henry Daggett Coley,_ Past Master
Lloyd A. Park, Past Master
Upland ·······-··-··-·-··- -No. 419.... Howard W. Morrison, Senior Warden........ 52.96
Michael J. Hanna, Junior Warden
J. Harry Snowden, P. M. and Inspector........ 52.96
Kerman ···········-···············:No. 420....Walter A. Steffen, Master..·-······-·········-·-··- 14.76
Inglewood ·······-·---No. 421....William Robusch, Master.. ·-········-·····-········ 49.62
Eugene L. Mamath, Senior Warden
John A. Dull, Past Master
Eagle Rock ··········--···-.No. 422.... Earl R. Cornell, Master...-·-·····-···········-····· 49.62
Clyde E. Sewright, Senior Warden
Ian S. Wharton, Junior Warden
William E. Keogh, P. M. and Inspector........ 49.62
York

0scar Himes, Master..·-··-·--···-·······-············ 49.62
·········------ ·----·& 423.... Wallace
Eugene Jobe, Senior Warden
Arnold David Price, Junior Warden

Exeter ··--·-··----·__ No. 424.... C. Gordon Shepherd, Master---·---·-······-··-· 31.32
Lawrence E. McGee, Senior Warden
Holtville ______ No. 425.... Monroe A. Horton, Junior Warden.......·-·-··· 70.84

Name of J.oc1ae

No. of Lodge

R.epresentatift:I

Mileqe Allowed

Midway ••......•..•....•...•.-No. 426....Earl T. Wildharber, Master..........................
Charles F. Renz, Senior Warden
Robert A. Smith, Past Master
Chino Valley ······-·•·····-·No• 427•... Fred A. Thirion. Senior Warden............·-·Peter S. Johnson, Junior Warden
Milne, Senior Warden.................·-······
James
....
428
San Dimas ·--·-········· ·-•No.
Albert E. Carroll, P. M. and Inspector..... ___
John G. Soder, Past Master
Pittsburg ····--···- -··No. 429.... Niels P. Christensen, Master...............·--······
Harry J. Carton, Senior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson. P. M. and Inspector .Don E. Ward, Past Master
Raymond L. Wildes, Past Master
and Representative
McCloud ···············-·---No. 430.... Doyle R. Briegel, P. M.
Charles S. Hogan, P. M. and Inspector........
Phil N. Myers, Past Master·-·-·················-···
Alpha

38.22

52.Bi
52.02
52.02
4.02
4.02
36.72
36.72
49.62

ed Lowell Atwood, Master
······················-··--No· 431....Alfr
Elwood Clinton Frisvold, Senior Warden
Lloyd Nystrom Mason, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
William F. Fruer, Past Master
William P. Self, Past Master
Martin Wiltz, Past Master

Hammonton ······-······- ·-No. i33._James R. McFarlane, Master..........................
Maricopa ·······--·············No. 434.... Bertram J. Snedden, Muter............................
John E. Colbert, Senior Warden
Arthur W. Scott, Junior Warden ·
,
George H. Carr, Past Master
....
435
-···No.
Fairmount ···········-·-·
Kenneth M. Kees, Senior Warden........-.......
....
436
··--No·
Claremont --······-·-··
•.........·-·-························
Lancaster ···-··········-····.No. 437.... John C. Sinn, Master
Leonard C. Meyer, Senior Warden
Clinton D. Nicholson, Past Master
Acacia --······---~----No· 438.... Emil J. Kramper, Senior Warden..................

9.98
38.46

.---··-···- ·Tyrian --·····-···-· ····-··No. 439-.Floy d Lewis, Senior Warden
Fred Hubbard, Junior Warden
Delbert E. Luck. P. M. and Inspector....-···-·
Stanley Mortensen, Past Master

6.96

52.56
43.30
49.62
6.96

Standard ····-····················No. HQ.•.. Robert Paul Nelson, Master
David Davidson Doig, Senior Warden
Edwin Chase Taylor, Past Master
Warden..· -··- ····· 59.78
Coronado ········--·-· -···No. 441....William B. Rogers, Senior
Vivien E. Hicks, Junior Warden
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
......... 59.78
Blackmer ··-··-········-·····No. 442.... 0scar H. Nelson, Mester.......................
William L. Kuykendall, Senior Warden
Dustin D. Parkhurst, Junior Warden
Charles Joseph Savage, P. M. and Inspector 59.78
Oscar E. Hanson, Past Master
William R. Markle, Past Master
George K. Palmer, Past Master
Schofield

·H3

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

442

-·-·-··--·--No• 443.... Albert Swaydis, Master-- --··-·-·-·· ········ 348.45

Name of J.oclae

No. of J.oclae

llepresenta ti-

Mileqe Allowed

Carpinteria ····-·-····-······No. 444.... Ernest A. McCurry, Muter......•.........•.. _.......
Marcus E. Cravens, Senior Warden
C. Pierce, Master...............·-············
Clarence
••••
Wilshire ·····················-···No. 44S
H. Gordon Bleckner, Senior Warden
Frederic Edwin Clark, P. M. and Inspector..
Herbert A. Huebner, Past Master
John S. Hunt, Past Master
La Puente -~·······-···········No. 446.... F. Edwin Zeiler, Senior Warden.........·-···-···
Torrance ······-····- ··-.-No. 447 __ Chris A. Bartsch, Senior Warden........·--·····
Frank Schmidt, Junlpr Warden
..•·-····-···-·-······-·······
Mount Diablo ................ No. 448..-Sam R. Haley, Master
Robert B. Ber_glund, Sehior Warden
Granville A. Adama, Past Muter
Park ······················-·····-·No. 449•... Arthur W. Bennett, Master
William J. Davis, Senior Warden
William H. Osborne, Junior Warden
Reginald Duden, Past Muter
John Ferguson, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Muter
George W. Ritchie, Past Master
Sidney L. Solomon, Past Master

42.10

Van Nuys -·--··- No. 450_.. Reginald Fudge, Master..................................
Howard H. Colvin. Senior Warden
Harold S. Morrison. P. M. and Inspector......
Carl B. Sartwell, Past Master
Walker W, Thompson. Past Master
L. Sutliff, Master...·-····························
Montebello -··············-····No• 4Sl...• Frank
Ira Vick, Senior Warden
L. D. Caln, Past Master
Samuel H. Harris, Past Master
Robert L. Karnes, Past Master
Merville L. Lamb
E. Burr, Master..............·-·······-·····
Clarence
..
4S2_
-No.
San Pasqual ··-·····-·····
Clifford W. Fawcett, Senior Warden
, Master
Bethlehem ·········-···-········No. 4S3-Arth ur Raymond Sutherland
Arthur Joseph Bender, Senior Warden
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Stanley William Kerley, Past Master
Vincent Paul McMurdo, Past Master
John C. Painter, Past Master

49.62

Crocker ------- ··No. 454.... Walter J. Gilnack, Master and Inspector
Ralph George Riches, P. M.
.
Edward M. Eliasen, Past Master
·
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Harold S. Johnson, Past Master
Andrew M. McKeown, Past Muter
George Watson, Past Master
Leonard Wester, Past Master ·
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ....•...•.•••.....No. 455.... Thomas William Rollinson, Master
James Evans, Senior Warden
Herbert Henry Eling, Junior Warden
Adolph Philip Bilay, Past Master
Erle Bancroft Brehaut, Past Master
Chester R. MacPhee, Past Master

49.62
49.62
51.22
49.62
2.00

49.62
49.62

50.66

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

.lllilcaae Alla.eit

Warden..·-···············-·· 49.62
Ramona -·-··-···-- ·····-No. 457.... Alvin Wendt, Senior
Russell D. Hatch, Junior Warden
Jack E. Anderson, Past Master
Henry S. Orme .•............No. 458.... Paul Nardella, Master...................................... 49.62
W. Edward Sullivan, Senior Warden
.
Milton H. Long, P. M. and Inspector............ 49.62
Merwyn N. Hollister, Past Master
David M. Mears, Past Master
\Villiam B. Mott, Past Master
Robert F. Shippee, Past Master
Riverbank ·-·····················No. 459.... Allen C. Holbrook, Representative....·-···-···
Mount Oso ···-··-····-- ··:No. ".+60.... Edward N. Higgins, Senior Warden............
Argonaut -·····-·-··-········No. 461.... William 0. Kuchlenz, Jr., Master
Ray G. Smith, Junior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, P. M. and Inspector
'Nalter R. Bowden, Past Master
Walter S. Flowers, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Carl Walter, Past Master
Paul Revere ····-·-·-····- ·No. 462.... Lowell H. Beckendorf, Master
Thomas W. S. Wu, Senior Warden
Maurice R. Amsden, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
William Bachman, Past Master
Nathan Danziger, Past Master
Howard D. King, Past Master
Roy C. Lemoge, Past Master
Alonzo J. Owens, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Sylvan Springer, Past Master
Jacob Warshaw, Past Master
Morgan Hill ··-·-·-··-·· ·No. 463.. _ Wil11am Y. Kirkman, Senior Warden............
Eugene L. Thomas, Junior Warden
William L. Whidden, Past Master

8.38
6.18

Name of Lodge

No. of L..dge

Representatives

Mi.lcage Allowed

Yorba Linda ···-··--··- No. 469.._AJvin Paul Foss, Master.................................. 51.76
Lincoln ·············- -·---···No. 470.... Howard Y. Low, Master
Asa P. Button, Junior Warden
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
•............ ·-···-·-··--· ···
Delta ·············-·······-........No. 471....Hugh G. Martin, Master
LeRoy A. Washburn , Senior Warden
William D. Platek, Junior Warden
Loys T. Newton, Grand Orator......................
Clyde S. Danner, Past Master
Earle J. Francis, Past Master
Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Past Master ·
Archibald L. Luck, Past Master
Robert M. Warren, Past Master

6.86
6.86

367.11
Maui -·-··--- ---.No . 472.... Carroll E. Lindley, Senior Warden.............. 367.11
Eugene P. Jijine, P. M. and Inspector..........
Master·-··············-·······-·-··
Blythe ····-·-··--·-----No. 473.... David E. Eastin,
George E. Covington, Junior Warden
Arthur L. Mullin, Past Master

66.26

Victory -·-··--- ---No. 474.._Ted Robbins, Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
Master..·-··-····················· 49.62
America ··-···············-··..No. 47S.... Richard V. Porter,
Don A. Burton, Senior Warden
Coachella ····---- No. 476._Cyru s M. Ttitus, Junior Warden.................... 60.50

5.52

Master
Alta Vista ···--················No. 464.... Harry S. Melicker,
Harold Stelling, Senior Warden
William Butcher, Past Master
Harold Y. Heckman, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Harry L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Senior Warden............................ 27.20
Center ···-·····•··- --··-·.No. 46S.... O. E. Helm,
Samuel E. Dollar, P. M. and Inspector_______ _ 27.20
Marlon A. Long, Past Master
Jr., Master.................._ 35.92
Libertas ··············--··.:...•No...166..- Walter W. Wasem,
Blaine N. Miller, Senior Warden
H. Hoyt Irwin, Junior Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Asst. Grand Lecturer.. 35.92
Robert J. Myers, Past Master
C. R. Wilkes, Past Master
Warden......... . 49.62
Culver Qty ···-···-···-· -No. 467.... Duke Phillip Watson, Senior
Virgil Roy Land, Junior Warden
Harold N. Cool, Past Master
Rockridge ········-············-No. 468.... Fred C. Dodge, Master

445

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Temblor ···-··-··---· ···-;_No. 477.... Herschel W. Graves, P. M. and Repr•..·-·····
Thousand Oaks -···-····No . 478...• Richard W. Moultrop, Master
Basil C. May, Senior Warden
Lynn C. Duggan, Junior Warden
Charles C. Moore, Past Master
Fred A. Schlafke, Past Master
Robert Harold Stitt, Past Master
R. P. Wisecarve r, Past Master

38.42

Golden Rule · - - - - -..No. 479_ 0scar Melvin Swensen, Master......................
Roy E. Bartholomew, Senior Warden
Frank H. Moeller, Junior Warden
Leon E. Allen, Past Master
Charles E. Bradley, Past Master
Fellowship _____ _No. 480-Jame s A. Gallagher, Master
ames A. Bottoms, Senior Warden
Gerald G. Sabine, Junior Warden
Herman Zeller, Past Master

3.92

Mt. Davidson ···---N o. 481-Carl Patrick McCarthy, Master
Bertram Holmes, Senior Warden
Laurent Alfred Loustau, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Grand Master
Alfred H. Nicoll, Grand Sword Bearer........ 49.62
Angus Stewart Holden, Past Master
Joseph Harold Jorgenson, Past Master
Harold Meyer, Past Master
Elmo Neil Murphy, Past Master .
Clarence F. Smith ···-·-.No. 482-Lym an·M. Smith, Master................................ 49.62
Don C. Crystal, Senior Warden

446
Name ol Loclle

No. o1 Loclle

B.epraeniatiyes

447

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Milnae AllOftll

BelJ ·······--·-····-·-··-· ·,No. 483.... Truman P. Hayward, Master.......................... 49.62
William G. Marsh, Senior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Francis W. Pearce, Past Master ·
Albert Pike --·-···--No. 4&t-Prands M. Greffoz, Senior Warden......•.. __ 49.62
Jack S. Smith, Junior Warden
George F. Corr, Past Master
Chowchilla ········---·No• 485-Roy Forrest, Senior Warden.._......·-·····-··- 24.26
Henry Wallis Hampton, Junior Warden
Caledonia ···-··-·-·····-···No. 486.-Joseph B. Hart, Master--····························· 35.92
Eustace E. O'Connor, Senior Warden
Floyd L. Kimball, Junior Warden
W. Waters Shugart, Past Master
H. Guy Walford, Past Master
' Vallejo ··---..-··-·--No. 487.•.• WUliam T. Hllton, Master.·-·······-······-·······- 2.70
Charles J. Harris, Senior Warden
Lawrence A. Bridge, Junior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, P. M. and Inspector.... _ 2.70
Alvin N. Huise, Past Master
Thomas E. P. Woods, Past Master
Patterson ··----···········No. 488•.-Walter Lee, Senior Warden....••.........·-········ 7.94
East Bay ···--···--··---No. 489-Allerton B. Ebert, Master
John A. Sobey, Senior Warden
Earl L. Daymude, Junior Warden
W. S. Armstrong, Past Master
Edgar Woodrow Gardner, Senior Warden.. 31.00
••
49()_
··-········-···-·No.
Corcoran
Arthur Dale Hammond, Past Master
Woodstock _ _ _No. 491-J. Emmett O'Brien, Master
Charles L. Wilhelm, Senior Warden
William F. Gorman, Junior Warden
Alvin A. Horwege, Grand Tiler
Irving E. Ashton, Past Master
Frank E. Doherty, Past Master
George Klingmann, Past Master
R. Emmett O'Brien, Past Master
M. Allen Powers, Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
49.62
H. Baisley, Mutei'-·-·-·-·-·- ·········-Starr
.•
492
--·-··--·····-··No.
Garvanza
W!lliam C. Stephens, Junior Wardm
29.62
Atascadero -··----No. 493-Henry Wintz, Senior Warden............-·..··- 29.62
Walter Clayton. Junior Grand Deacoo........Pred Hess, Past Master
Cecil Prior, Past Master
Acorn _ _,_ _ _ _ No. 49.f._C. Arthur Wilcox, Master
Earl W. Temen. Senior Warden
Rudolph G. Johanson. Junior Warden
Ralph Adams, Past Master
E. Lloyd Hanson, Pi!St Master
Rowland B. Reinig, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswick. Past Master
Master
Lebanon ··-···--······-·-_No . 495..~ George J. Shenson,
Horace 0. Warfield. Senior Warden
Robert H. Marltuse, Junior Warden
Milton Meyer, Past Master

Name ol Lodae

No. ol Lod&e

llepresentati'l'es

Mileqe Afloyed

Fremont ·······-·-······-·····No. 497.... Melvin Oredsen, Master
Frank Krause, Senior Warden
Walter M. Beers, Junior Warden
Stockton ..........................No. 498.... Roswald Kenneth Wells, Master..............~ .... . 6.86
Howard Kenneth Mauser, Senior Warden
Capital City ---··········No. 499.... Caleb J. Davis, Master.·-··-··-··-· ······--·-··· 7.24
Everett S. White, Senior Warden
Roosevelt ...........•..•.........No. 500.... A. Jack Podesta, Master
Hagop Hagopian, Senior Warden
John Reynolds, Junior Warden
Marvin K. Cloyd, Past Master
39.38
William L. Beavers Master
Westwood ......................No. 501.... Larry
Dean, Senior Warden····························
Wayne Gleason, Past Master
Harbor ·························-·No. 502_.. Lloyd A. Vincent, Master
Charles L. Stanley, Senior Warden
Harry J. Brande, junior Warden
Emory M. Milner, Past Master
Point ···-··-·········--·--· -No. 503...• Colvin Winfred Hicks, Master
Robert Vanevery Way~ett, Senior Warden
Jack C. Pearson, Past Master
Seaside ··-------······N o. 5t>f....John A. Lord, Master-·-··---- ·······-··--- 49.62
Harvey Menard, Senior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P. M. and Inspector.... 49.62
William T. Corbusler, Past Master
J. Everett Houser, Past Master
Sllver Cord •................_No. 505.... gallasl, R. Shields, Senior Warden......•....... 52.58
Jen • Turner, P. M. and Inspector......•..... 52.58
49.62
Gilbert.· Senior Ward..,,enu....._
.Joseph
...
506
_.No.
.....
........
Olive
Mount
Kenneth Ellsworth, Junior Warden
Russell Northrup, P. M. and Inspector·-······· 49.62
•
Karl V. Johnson. Past Master
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
Alvin Wendt, Past Master
EI Segundo ···-··-·········No. 507.... Harry Clark Mann, Senior Warden..........- .. 49.62
.-No. 508._.Fred Arcelus, Senior Warden.·-···········-·--·· 27.78
Joppa
Benjamin Franklin ......-No. 509.... Peter Jan. Senior Warden..·---······· ···-·····-· 49.62
Robert B. Owen, Junior Warden
Walter B. Rorick, Past Master
Cupertino ····--·····-··--··•No• 510.•_Lloyd Marshall Minnich, Master•..........•........ 3.64
Sekul Spaich, Senior Warden
Wllliam Western Sharp, Past Master
Sunnyvale ······-··--····-No. 51L..Clyde E. Waltrip, Master----··- ···-·- 3.50
Palms

Master...,_ _ _ __
--·-······-··--No. SJ2._David B. Bracken,
Baggett, Senior Warden

49.62

Neal James
Roy Milton Foss, Junior Warden
William S. Keily, Past Master

Muter--·····-···-········-···· 49.62
Cahuenga ··-·-·--··-········No• 513._George K. Calvin,Senior
Warden
Robert G. Swan.
John W. Baker, Junior Warden
Roy C. Bryan. Past Master·-·-····-· ---·· 49.62
Roy L. Joyce, Past Master
Charles R. Kelley, Past Master

448
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage All01re.t

Clarence W. Murphy, Past Master
Earl W. Neal, Past Master
Charles L. Webber, Past Master
Ray Whitney, Sr., Past Master
Argonne ···················--No. 514..-Henry A. Christensen, Master
Harry B. Green, Senior Warden
David Mann Taylor, Past Master
Donald 0. Townsend, Past Master
Frederick E. Wilhelm, Past Master
Vermont Square .......- ..,No. 515.... William Inzer, Master.......... ·-················-···Charles F. Barton, Senior Warden
Ford E. Jackson, Past Master
Taft ····················-·······-···No. 516.... f. E. Hancock, Senior Warden.................• __
William P. Knick, Junior Warden
Jennings E. Muir, P. M. and Inspector......-..
R. E. Burbeck, Past Master
Mount Vernon .......-·-···No. 517.... Ralph L. Chelifoux, Junior Warden
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
Michael C. Kelly, Past Master
Walter L. Stobing, Past Master
La Jolla ............._: ____•..No. 518.... Curtls H. Kindig, Senior Warden................_
R. Daryl Collins, Junior Warden
Harry H. Aiman, P. M. and Inspector..........

49.62
38.22
38.22

59.78
59.78

Euclid ·--·············-·····-·-··No. 519.... E. Burton Wilson, St.>nior Warden................ 49.62
Roy G. Mead, Past Master
Ionic ··--··········----·-···-No. 520.... Harry C. Cherman, Master......- ..--............, 49.62
Ralph Fenster, Senior Warden
Claude Lenz, Past Master
Piedmont --·····-···--····--·No. 521._.Auguste F. Peck, Master
Albert E. Buechsen, Senior Warden
A. Edward Caruso, Junior Warden
Wilson E. Cline, Past Master
Charles Porter Evans, Past Master
Edward Henry Pitcher, Past Master
Kenneth A. Rice, Past Master
Walter F. Schag, Past Master
Sunrise -·-···--···--··-No. 522.._I. Worrell Rush, Master............................- •.Albert J. Victor, Senior Warden
John Harry Rutherford, Past Master

49.62

Catalina Island ..............No. 524.... L. M. Thomas, Master.................................... 59.90
Donald E. Ramsey, Junior Warden
George Washington ......No. 525.... Lauryn H. Taylor, Master
·
Adolf H. Franzen, Senior WaTden
John Newsham, Junior Warden
John Johnston, Past Master\
Bay City ...--···-···...........No. 526.._Ferd L. Hershfield, Mas~er
Seymour H. Green, Seruor Warden
, Edward N. Jackson, Past Master
.....-·····--·..-

Name of Lodac

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Beverly Hills -··········....No. 528.... Edward T. Clark Master
Daniel A. Macnn'non, Se~i~;·v.;;;;d;~···--··--··
Robert E. Reel, Junior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., Deputy Grand Master....
Elbert C. Yuille, Grand PursuivanL...........
Joe Bookman, Past Master
Lloyd W. Burris, Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Frederick A. Fox, Past Master
Joseph F. Hogan, Past Master
Frank M. Jenkins, Past Master
N. Carl Peters, Past Master
Loyalty •.._;_·········-···No. 529.... Lloyd P. Bass, Master......................................
Manuel Clavin, Senior Warden
Nathan Katzev, Junior Warden
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Junior Grand Warden
J. J. Strauss, Past Master
Joseph A. Visger, Past Master
Sun Garden .........._ .......No. 530.... 0ra Alvin Johnson, Master..............................
Marshall Dey Mortland, Senior Warden
Herbert R. Hargrave, P. M. and Inspector..
Everett LaJoya Coyle, Past Master
Alexandria ................._.•.No. 531.... Walter J. Chisholm, Master
C::yril G. Hansen, Senior Warden
William S. Brannan, Junior Warden
Edmund S. Davidson, Past Master
Ralph C. McArthur, Past Master
Smyrna ............................No. 532.... Elroy D. Vaughn, Senior Warden................
·
Henry W. Burmaster, Junior Warden

·······-··········-····--No. 533.... John Watson Grig_sby, Senior Warden........
Paul Washington Trook, Junior Warden
•
Forest Hill ...................-No. 534.... Frederick R. Robinson, Master

Azure

49.62
49.62
49.62

49.62
49.62
27.20
27.20

8.68
51.54

Frederick A. Lowell, Senior Warden
J. H. Tietjen, Past Master

Bel!Hower ...............___No. 523.... Edward E. Bailey, Master....................·-···-- 49.62
James F. Willmon, Senior Warden
Lyall A. Pardee, Past Master

Covenant

449

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 527 Maurice Richardson, Master.....·-·················· 49.62
····Emmett E. Jordan, Senior Warden

Alexander Hamilton ......No. 535.... Kenneth Waite, Master.·-································ 49.62
Edward A. Stone, Senior Warden
Wilson C. Clark, Junior Warden
Howard B. Berry, Past Master
Edward T. Blickfeldt, Past Master................ 49.62
Archie T. Bush, Past Master
Seal Rock ...·-·-··-··-·-No. 536.... John F. Yale, Master
Anthony A. Andre, Senior Warden
Edwin W. Bode, Past Master
Harry H. Jacobson, Past Master
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Otto Stewart, Past Master
Utopia ····-····--··-~-----N!:I· 537.•.. Walter R. Loenig, Senior Warden................ 49.62
Glenn W. Mettler, Junior Warden
Arthur Beard, Past Master
Frederick K. Ehrhardt, Past Master
George Leask, Past Master
F. T. Nagle, Past Master
Ascot ...............- ..........No. 538.... Eddie Rush Daffin, Master.............................. 49.62
Herbert Rolling Taylor, Senior Warden
Martin 0. Veland, P. M. and Inspector........ 49.62

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of Lod&e

No. of Lod&e

Represenaativc:s

Lyman Emerson Parris, Past Master
Marvin Emanuel Loomis, Past Master
Byron Lester Sackett, Past Master
Belvedere ··············-·····-.No. 539.... Edgar Randolph, Master.............................•_ 49.62
Frank Parmen, Junior Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of Lod&e

No. of Lod&e

Representatives

451
Mileaiie All.,wed

Signal ..............................No. 543.... Donald P. Evans, Senior Warden..............- .. 49.62
Myron E. Roudebush, P. M. and Inspector.. 49.62

Lakeshore -············-···-···No. 551 .... Ralph H. Moreland, Master
Ronald H. Johnson, Senior Warden
Ralph B. Vincent, Junior Warden
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Lee.B. Ferguson, Past Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
Lloyd W. Hanson, Past Master
William E. Yocom, Past Master
William W. Yocom, Jr., Past Master
Semper Vireos ................ No. 552.... Harold Laton Murie, Senior Warden........... .
Alexander Duncan, P. M. and Inspector......
Clarence A. Trowbridge, P. M. & Inspector
Educator ···-···········-·--.No. 554.... Prancls D. De Long, Master
James A. Davis, Senior Warden
Lorrin W . Coughlan, Junior Warden
William M. Milligan, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
White Pine ········-··········No. 555.... Wesley Little, Representative........................
Fairfax ····················-'···-No• 556.... Albred C. Lee, Master
William Bickle, Senior Warden
David R. Lawrence, Junior Warden
Lynn E. Barr, Past Master
Hermosa ·······-··············-·No. 557.... Russell Dale Temple, Senior Warden........... .
Paul Thompson, P. M. and Inspector............

Glendale ············-·······-·-No. 544.... Charles C. Hushaw, Master......·-·················- 49.62
Orren L. Walker, Senior Warden

Point Firmin ...•..............No. 558.... Louis C. Schwarz, Master.............................. 49.62
H. Otto Nielsen, Senior Warden

Jonathan -··················--No. 545.... Albin W. Di Pasca, Master
Perry M. Spencer, P. M. and Inspector
Theodore S. Nissen, Past Master

Craftsmen ···········-··-·····-No.-559.-~!;' ~: ~~~~&~:;-w;·;d~~--~---················
Avery W. Phillips, Past Master

Queen Beach ..............._.No. 540.... Laurence E. Stenger, Master..·-··············--·- 49.62
George E. Gates, Senior Warden
Marvel Fairchild, Past Master
Fred S. J. Hancock, Past Master
Henry Morse Stephens .. No. 541.... Lawrence E. Hawkins, Master
H. Archie McPherson, Senior Warden
Robert H. Taylor, P. M. and Inspector
Marvin D. Martin, Past Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Past Master
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
North Hollywood ..........No. 542.... Carey W. Burch, Master-·····-··········-·········- 49.62
Cyrus E. Metzler, Senior Warden
Reginald Bunce, P. M. and Inspector.......•-. 49.62
·
John M. Collins, Past Master
William C. Neuendorff, Past Master
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master

San Gabriel ................._.No. 546.... Charles M. McNabb, Senior Warden........- .. 49.62
W. Clare Moore, Junior Warden
Arcadia ....•......................•No. 547.... Philip Weary, Master•.·-······--······················ 49.62
Martin B. Nelson, Senior Warden
Triangle ........................_No. 548.... Harry _H. Kellogg, Master............................•. 49.62
Glen M. Chitwood. Senior Warden
George W. Ellis, Past Master
Justice

_____________ .._No, 549_Samuel Pedeli, Master

Ralph Robert Herdman, Senior Warden
Charles John Mickelson, Junior Warden
Paul A. Hackler, P. M. and Inspector
William Willis Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
William Reid Campbell, Past Master
Milton P. Conklin, Past Master
George David Horn, Past Master
Frank Ringo Jackson, Past Master
Rush Manbert, Past Master
Percy Vane Maury, Past Master
Morgan Max Smith, Past Master

John Fellows, Master
Seaport ............·-····- __No. 550_.Warwick
Lester Portune Bulloch, Junior Warden
Albert Robert Lagosa, Past Muter
John George Wullschleger, Past Master

34.22
34.22
34.22

37.26

49.62
49.62

49.62

Plymouth ....~........-......... No•. 560.... John 0. Reynolds, Master
Adolph C. Henrikson, Senior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master
James Gaston Dishner, P. M. and Inspector
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Gerald E. Rhine, Past Master
William G. Thumann, Past Master
East San Diego ..............No. 561-Harvey C. McDaniel, Senior Warden.......... 57.98
Prank Fodor, Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Pyramid ·-·····-·-····i·__M,• 562.. _Fred E. Wider, Master
Julius D. Szakal, Senior Warden
Chester H. Newell, Junior Warden
John H. Brooke, Past Master
E:ugene A. Pipton, Past Master
South Park ···············-····No. 563.... Deward Belma Bayliss, Master...................... 49.62
Ralph Mervin Stone, Senior Warden
Lawrence B. Black, Past Master
Foothill ····--···········---No. 564.... Paul S. Davis, Master
Joseph G. Sylva, Senior Warden
Heman C. MacCourt, Junior Warden
Ray A. Farley, Past Master
Ben L. Miller, Past Master

452

PROCEEDING S OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name ol Lodae

No. of Lodae

Representatives

453

Mileqe Allowed

W est Adams ···•··············No• 565.... E A. Rathbun, Master..•••..•.......-·...•.......•••••R~land C. Hill. Senior Warden
C. David Johnson, J?aat Mast.er
James A. Garlleld ........•.No. 566.... Alfred 0. T. Opsahl, Master......·-········--····
Merrill M. Baysoar, Senior Warden
Field Thompson. Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, Past Master-···············-···
Paul F. Mattoon, Past Master
No
567
....
0tis
L. Weaver, Master..·--··········..····..:·······
Searchlight ······················ •
Frank E. Smith, Senior Warden

49.62
49.62
49.62
49.62

Park Boulevard ······-······No. 568.... Richard A. BrollwnlSn~, MWasterd
John H. Powe , eruor ar en
William T. Frlborg, Junior Warden
Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
Francis A. Roberts, Past Master
Chateau Thierry ............No. 569.... Walter W. Beck, Ma.sterW d
Eugene Barnard, Senior ar en
Howard S. Kaulbach, P. M. and Inspector
David L. Babcock. Past Master
Harold D. Weber, Past Master
Military Service .•.......•••No. 570.... Edward J. MVooneyS, MasteWr d
William R. onn, enlor ar en
Louis H. Strohecker, Junior Warden
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Hubert A. Hemphill, Past Master
Chang ,Wah Lee, Past Master
Robert J. Martin, Past Master
Sterling P. Spero, Past Master
William 0. Tillmannshoefer, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck ••....No. 571.... Ivan A. Schwab}, MasteWr d
J. Leroy~vans, unior ar en
Elbert W. Davis, Grand Lecturer
Edwin C. Clifford, Past Master
George Jelten, Past Master
Joseph A. Pivemetz, Past Master
C. B. Scheikosky, Past Master
J. Tilbury, Past Master
572_.Herold
W. Byers. Master.............................. 49.62
James Madison ···-·········N o.,
Ray Smith, Senior Warden
Daily P. Child& Past Master
____No 573 Brown Zarley, Master
Hillcrest ·-······-··
•
····George F. Cake, Senior Warden
Paul 0. Wilson, Junior Warden
· N 574 William M. Flenniken, Master...---·········-··· 59.78
S. W. Hackett ···-····-·- o.
····Robert E. Whiting, Senior Warden
Thomas H. Cann, Junior Warden
Joseph H. Wagner, Past Master
..
No 575 James W. Murray. Senior Wdarden................ 37.32
F ort C roo.11< ~--------···· •
·-Rex L. Vaughn. JuniQr War en
Reginald Reynolds, P. M. and Inspector...... 37.32
Otho Stewart, Past Master
N 576 Kenneth L Wylie, Master.........·-··-····-··-····· 60.78
El Cajon Valley -·······-··· o.
··-·Fred G. Fr~nk. Senior Warden
Hugh D. Good. P. M. and Impector........--- 59.78

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Representatives

MMnp Allowed

Sunnyside -···············--- No. 5n-•. Charles M. Mounce, Master.........................~.. 49.62
Willard S. Bolin, Senior Warden
William B. Harmon, Junior Warden
Louis H. Mahler, P. M. and Inspector.......... 49.62
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master.................... 49.62
William F. Ireland, Jr., Past Master
John A. Low, Past Master
Guy A. Tolle, Past Master
Progressive --······--···No . 578.... Paul J. Rivers, Master.................................. __ 49.62
Charles E. Taylor, Senior Warden
James A. Carrier, Junior Warden
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller, Past Master
Warren G. Harding ...... No. 579...J. Louis Missall, Master•••- .....,.·--············-· 7.24
Russell S. Rae, Senior Warden
Frederick J. Steinkamp, Junior Warden
Carl W. Brainard, Past Master
Santa Marla --····-···-·······No. 580...• Not Represented
Security ·····--··-········-···No. 581.... Thomas McElheny, Master..............·-·-····--·· 35.52
Kenneth P. Sward, Senior Warden
Samuel R. Bauman, Past Muter
Rialto ···----,····--··-·······_No. 582.... Frank Lowell, Senior Warden..._................... 54.30
Wasco --··--············-···No• 583..•. ~hn L. Prueitt. Senior Warden.............- .....•. 34.08
ohn A. Mettier, Junior Warden
arry H. Pollack, Senior Grand Steward.... 34.08
Fred Charles Pritschke, P. M. and Inspector 34.08
Harding -··---·····-N o.. 584.... David G. Parmelee, Master--·····- ·--··-······· 49.62
Melvin A. Pixley, Senior Warden
Anson McArthur, P. M. and Impector........ 49.62
Charles L. Hanson, Past Master
Louis E. Sage, Past Master
Manchester ...........•........ No. 585.... Edward William Roberts, Master................. . 49.62
Warner Reinhold Halfpap, Senior Warden
Elmer R. Lotz. P. M. and Inspector................ 49.62
Gilbert J. Anderson, Past Master
Arthur Ray Dixon, Past Master
Ralph C. Ferguson, Past Master
Clark Humphrey, Past Master
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Master
Garden Grove ·-···-······No. 586.... Leonard L. Dobkins, Muter.....- ................... 52.58
Walter K. Reed, Senior Warden
.Valley Forge ········-··-····No. 587.... Arthur E. Nelson, Master•.......•........•.......·--·· 49.62
Leslie S. Wayman, Senior Warden
Charles S. Barrett, Past Master
El Sereno ·······-----·N o• 588.... Leslie H. Laney, Master.·-······-····················· 49,62
Marshall 0. Ingraham, Senior Warden
Kauai ················-·-·······..No• 589.... Sau Yee Chang, Senior Warden.............,...-. 367.11

Compass ·······--·-·-·-No. 590..-Grant E. Bowers, Senior Warden............... _. 52.44
C. Erskine Lesley, Junior Warden
Escalon ··-···········-···········No, 591....Wyman Merral Clark, Master...·-····-·····,···-·
Dewey Henson, Senior Warden
Charles Noden, Junior Warden
Arch T. Roberson, P. M. and Inspector........

8.24
8.24

455

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

454
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

llepresenratives

Name ol Lodge
Mileqe Allowed

Tujunga •................•......,.No. 592.... Robert C. Durkee, Senior Warden................ 49.62
Gerold M. Trisler, Junior Warden
All States ........................No. 593.... Elmer E. West, Master.................................... 49.62
Everett Arey, Senior Warden
Service .........~..................No. 594.... Theodoric C. Linthicum, Master.................... 49.62
Robert S. Ryerson, Senior Waredn
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell..No. 595 .... Ronald H. Brandt, Senior Warden................ 49.62
Guardian ................-.-.No. 596.... Frank J. Vieira, Master.................................... 49.62
Bernice L. Lackey, Senior Warden
Howard Laurant, P. M. and Inspector.......... 49.62
Pearl Harbor ..................No. 598.... Henry E.W. Gibbs, Master............................ 348.45
Charles F. Washburn, Past Master
Carmelita ........................No. 599.... Lyle H. Cheney, Master.................................. 50.66
Kermit A. Jacobson, Senior Warden
Harold R. Benedict. Junior Warden
J. Tyler Parker, Jr., P. M. and Inspector...... 50.66
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood ........................No. 600.... Fred R. Cook, Master...................................... 49.62
Charles W. Rattelman. Senior Warden
John L. Libsack, Junior Warden
John D. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly ............................No. 601.... Grover F. Barnard, Representative................ 32.94
Melrose ..........................No. 602.... Thomas J. McKimson, Senior Warden.......... 49.62
Edwin T. Church, Junior Warden
Dimond ............................No. 603.... tck M. Townsend, Master
ulian Lesire, Senior Warden
eonard McGihon, Junior Warden
George W. Shokal. Past Master
52.58

Jubilee ...........................-No. 604.... Elmer D. Dudek, Senior Warden................
John Kahler, Past Master
49.62
Glassell Park ..................No. 605.... Harold Mitchell, Master.................................. 49.62
Frank W. Johnson, P. M. and Inspector..... .
51.08
Sojourner ........................No. 607.... D. Floyd Fugit, Senior Warden....................
Stanley S. Wand, Junior Warden
49.62
Granada ......................_.No. 608.... William H. Claus. Senior Warden................
J. Rollie Bowles, Junior Warden
Donald G. Campbell. P. M. and Inspector.... 49.62
7.24
Provident ........................No. 609.... Albert S. Walton, Master............................ ..
Martin R. Mortensen, Junior Warden
Leslie E. Wood. Past Grand Master............. . 7.24
Elmhurst ..........................No. 610.... Daniel E. Hensley, Senior Warden
49.62
Canoga ............................No. 611.... Theodore J. Davis, Senior Warden..............
Norris A. Reavis. Past Master
49.62
Temple City ..................No. 612.... Frederkk W. Hackler, Senior Warden........
Melvin O. Naugle, Junior Warden
William N. Pedder, P. M. and Inspector...... 49.62
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
7.24
Three Pillars ...........- ..••No. 613.... Frank P. Lemen, Master.....................,............
Wallace W. Wiederhold, Senior Warden
Sam Lovell, P. M. and Ins_pector................... . 7.24
Miles J. McClelland, P. M. and lnsp«tor.... 7.24

No. of Lodge

R.epresenrati ves

Mileage Allowed

Larchmont ·-···-···..........No. 614.... Chester
Wesley Little,
Hermiston
Seni~r Mast
Ward;;;,......................... 49.62
Newcomb Condee, Past Master
Roy Lineaweaver, Past Master .................... 49.62
George P. Salm, P. M. and Inspector
49.62
D. Harold Shoopman, Past Master ............
58.62
Hemet ..............................No. 615.... Edwin Carl Gustafson Mast
Herbert Wilbur Raym~nd, s!1°iti~;w~;d;~ ...
R. E Doll
Ray R. Bell, P. M. a~d Inspector.................. 58.62
•
ey
··--.............
No.
616
....
Frank 0. Brostrom, Senior Warden.............. 'Y,._9.62
Bl B

g

ear ..........................No. 617.... Robert K. Bacon, Senior Ward
Larry P. Boyle, Past Master en.................. 56·60

Southland ........................No. 618.... C. Stewart Griswold Mast
4
9.62
·
Raymond M. Hargus'. Junio:1"w~;d;~............
N
John A. Crosbie, P. M. and Inspector............ 49•62
eptune ..........................No. 619.... Chester K. Endter M t
4
Samuel M. Whitth~:,5s':iri~~-W~;d;~........ 9.62
Donald E. Keith, Past Master
Point Loma ....................No. 620.... Cecil J. Rogers, Senior Ward
59.78
Gerald H. Williams, Junior w!~;;; ..............
Leroy W. Lee, Past Master
Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
The Gardens ..................No. 621.... Walter H. Schumacher Ma t
49.62
Mason G. Frazer, Senio'r w!rd~;:;_...................
Floyd S. Vandergrift, Past Master
Atwater ..........................N o. 622.... William H. Thomas, Senior W d
49,62
Charles F. Chapman, Junior W~e~n............
Menorah .............., ...........No. 623....Carl C. Rozzen, Master.....
Harry P. Ritchie, Senior W~d;~....................
ADolbert V. Youngs, P. M. and Inspector
nald J. Lauber, Past Master
........
Marvin Lauber, Past Master
Morris J. Pollack, Past Master

49

.62
49.62

Fortitude ........................No. 624.... Clarence M. Langle. Senior Warden
George W. Oliver, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Webb, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................No. 625.... Douglas T •.Tacker, Master............................ 49.62
E. Glenn Wilson, Senior Warden
George W. Meehleis, Junior Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista ............... _ ..No. 626.... William H. Greenwell, Senior Warden........
Verne F. McLean, Junior Warden
John H. Greife, Past Master
Lud L. Handley, Past Master
Charles E. Smith, Past Master

59.78

Lamanda Park ................No. 627.... Simon Rinkus Master
Leon 0. Jacks~n. Seni~;w~;d;~-................... 50.66
Truth ...........- ................No. 628.... William R. McArthur, s.•
.. ~-•v~•=
49.62
Joseph Campbell Benedick, Secl;·w:~;d;_...
Oskar Eugene Kopperup, Past Master

Na.me of Lodae

No. of Lodge

llepresentatives

457

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

456

Mileage Allowed

Fairview ·-··-··-·-·······-·-No. 629.... Alfred F. McKim, Master............................:... 49.62
Robert H. Alrgood, Senior Warden
John A. Howard. Junior Warden
John E. Comley, Past Master
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Harold C. Mudgett, Past Master
Ingleside ···········-············.No. 630.... Edison K. Quick, Master
John D. Miller, Senior Warden
·
Hilman H. Baker, Junior Warden
Henry C. Clausen, Senior Grand Warden·
Lloyd E. Wilson, P. G. M. & Grand Secretary
Harry Stanton Walker, Past Master
Benevolence ···········-··-···No. 631.... Roy W. Barron, Master................................_ 49.62
Harold J. Sandell, Senior Warden
Monta W. Shirley, Junior Warden
Normal Heights ··--·······No. 632.... Edgar L. Henderson, Senior Warden............ 59.78
Albert C. Snell, lunior Warden
Winlleld S. Mcl'..ees, Grand Standard Bearer 59.78
D. Sparks, Master.........•....:............. 43.42
William
....
633
~.No.
..........•...........
Poinsettia
Lloyd M. Ryckman, Senior Warden
Roy W. Williams, Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Grand Master.......... 49.62
Guy S. Harts, Sr., P. M. and Inspector........ 43.42
Arthur T. Mead. Past Master
57.90
Victorville ·······-·······-····No• 634 .... Elton S. Goble, Senior Warden. ...............·-·John J. Garrison, Junior Warden
Ruhnau, Master..·-························· 54.30
Riverside ........................No. 635.... Alfred R. Lachlan,
Senior Warden
Roy Mac
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
Charles H. Grace, Past Master
Nadell E: Jensen, Past Master
John Marshall ................No. 636.... Robert A. Crigler, Master.......---········--··· 49.62
Edwin F. Lippert, Senior Warden
Atwill T. Morgan. Past Master

Name ol Lodge

No. ol Lodge

llepresen1atives

Mlleqe Allowed

Alta Loma ....•...•........•....No. 643.... Charles E. Leverett, Muter•.....·-·-··········· ..·•
Samuel D. Gann, Senior Warden
·
Lomita ...........·-·-····-·····No. 644.... R. A. Faulkner, Master......·-··-···········-·····
John Graham, Senior Warden
A. F. E. Irwin ·······--···No. 645.... Gordon Goar, Senior Warden........·-·········-··
William Anderson, Junior Warden
E. E. Mattson, Past Master
Metropolitan ·············-·-No, 646.... Howard W. Lange, Senior Warden..............
Frank Everett, Past Master

49.62
49.62
49.62
49.62

Hawthorne -·········-···-··.No. 647.... Fred W. Eckman, Senior Warden..·-·········- 49.62
John A. Owen, P. M. and Inspector............ _ 49.62
Marcus A. Woodward, Past Master
Damascus ·······--····---·····No, 648.... Laurence C. Cook, Master......·-··············•··-·· 54.30
Nell M. Ousley, Senior Warden
John Bright, P. M. and lnsp~ctor.................... 54.30
Lawrence L. Nichols, Past Master
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Florence ........~---·--·-No. 649.... 0wen J. Marleau, Master_........·-·-···-··-······· 49.62
Willard Meier, Senior Warden
La Brea ······-····················No. 650.... Hugh J. Cameron, Master..................·-··-······· 49.62
Homer 0. Parrish, Senior Warden
Francis C. Ford, Junior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr.. Past Master
J. D. Hurd, Past Master
Charles F. Laverty, Past Master
Russell Lee, Past Master
W. James Mann, Past Master
Emil 0. Ostrom, Past Master
John W. Swank, Past Master
Menlo Park .................... No. 651....Wade Hampton, Senior Warden.................. 3.28
Edward C. Buchanan, Junior Warden
•
David Wright, Past Master
Crescenta Valley •...........No. 652.... Charles Jefferson Estes, Muter...................... 49.62
William John Cozad, Senior Warden

Palisades •...............•.......No. 637.... Cecil L. Lacy, Master---······-························· 49.62
William T. Overgard, Sr., Senior Warden
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master

Fontana ·······-········-·····••No. 653.... ~{pi!!; 2~B1::~~~S:~~~~-W~;d;;;·············· 53.88

Indian Rock ....................No. 638.... Ralph B. Anderson. Master
Robert 0. Evans, Senior Warden
Wallace S. Cordray, Junior Warden

Jordan ·-·-·······-·--·········No• 654.... Robert H. Carfrae, Muter·--·····-········-······· 49.62
Earl H. Smith, Senior Warden

Composite ······--·-········No. 639.... Archie Jacobs, Master..........................·-········· 49.62
Clarence D. Danielson, Senior Warden
Louis B. Bloch, Past Master
Verltu

Robert Howarth Turner, Master
··-··················--·No· 640.... Cyril
Blaine Mills, Junior Warden

Irving John Kohnke. Past Master
Washington Irving Kohnke, Past Master
Oscar Wendel Norman, Past Master
Reginald Austin Wiswell, Past Master

Ja~es A. Foshay ····-······No. 641....Royal Millhouse, Senior Warden.................. 49.62
Eberhard Kramer, Junior Warden ·

1

La Cumbre ·····-···············No. 642.... W. Bruce Warren, Senior Warden.............. ... 11.. 1188
Arthur ~oone, P. M. and Inspector................
William W. McKee, Past Master........·-····· 41.18

.Monte Vista -·····-·-········No. 655.... Kenneth R. Patterson, Master........................ 49.62
George S. Cook, Senior Warden
Homer Betz, Past Master
Citro! ···--·····-·--··-·--·No. 656.... Norman H. LeRoy, Senior Warden.............. 51.54
J. D. Spreckels ..............No. 657.... Arthur B. Shoot, Senior Warden.................... 59.78
Francis M. Kinderman, Junior Warden
Howard L. Carroll, Past Master
John T. Martin, Past Master
Livingston --·····-·-·····-·-No. 658.... Vernon Gallaway, Senior Warden................ 10.18
La Habra -·-······--_._No, 659.... Clinton N. Lane, Senior Warden-.............. :. 51.54
Baldwin Park ................No. 660.... Leslie William Richards, Senior Warde.n.... 49.62
Fred Leland Ferguson, Sr.. P. M. and
Inspector ---······-··--·········-···········-········· 49 .62

459

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

458
Name of Lod&e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
· Name ~f Lodge
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowea

Malta ·····················-·····-No. 66L-Karl L. Pyle, Senior Warden...................._•• 49.62
Henry Knox ··-················No• 662..-Alfred Fairhurst Baughn, Master............. __ _ 49.62
William Basil Sutoff, Senior Warden
Donald Arthur Piper, Junior Warden
Samuel Roy Howell, Past Master
Paul Rainey Nichols, Past Master
Ojai ·······-············-·········-No. 663....Barton K. Eakin, Master...............................• 43.30
Clyde E. Harral, Senior Warden
Kaweah ............................No. 665.... Dolpho H. Beam, Representative.................. 31.82
Reseda ·······-···················No. 666.... Jerome R. McKay, Master...........- ................. 49.62
Norman 0. Nelson, Senior Warden
Lloyd E. Parker, Past Master
Meridian :.................._..... No. 667....James W. Hemstreet, Senior Warden............ 49.62
Harold E. Moody, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master.............. 49.62
Frank W. Raddatz, P. M. and Inspector...... 49.62
Clarence E. Glaze, Past Master
San Gorgonio •...............No. 668....Thomas C. Ackley, Senior Wardeii.............. 56.72
John Raatz, Junior Warden
John P. Jarman ..............No. 669.... lvin W. Ramsey, Master................................ 3.92
Russell F. Brownell, Senior Warden
Joseph A. Pinkston, Past Master.................... 3.92
Nels H. Johnson, Past Master
51.22
~M~N=~~l~e~:~;;d;;,:·················
Greenleaf ·············-········.No. 670....

J:T

San Clemente ................No. 671.. .. William E. Tepper, Senior Warden.............. 54.68
Laguna Beach ................No. 672.... William Alfred Lockett, Senior Warden..... . 53.00
W. Ben Sorrells, P. M. and Inspector............ 53.00
Far West ···············-·······No. 673.... lan T. Kay, Master
·
James W. Springer, Senior Warden
Robert K. Thompson, Junior Warden
Caspar A. Bachtold, Past Master
George E. Crocker, Past Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Earl B. Myers, Past Master
Los 'Cerritos ···-······-·······No. 674.... Rueben Kove, Master---······=·········-·······-··· 49.62
Archie Lloyd, Senior Warden
Arthur J. Sissons, Past Master
Modesto .......................;.•.No. 675.... John Frank Stewart, Senior Warden............ 8.32
Willow Glen ..................No. 676.... Carl J. Deiss, Master........•....................---······ 3.92
Liberal Arts ....................No. 677.... Lawrence B. Rayl, Master..·-······-·····-·········· 49.62
Richard Webster, Senior Warden
Elmer H. Mills, Junior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master....~-····· 49.62
Elvin C. Drake, P. M. and Inspector............ 49.62
Floyd Goodan, Past Master
Frank H. Reinsch, Past Master
Ira G Erichsen, Master..•...·-························· 50.66
Altadena ····················-·-No.· 678····Francis
J. Willcox, Senior Warden
·
Gus L. Phillips, Junior Warden
Dean Callas Senior Warden---··········-··········· 48.66
Canby Cross ··················No· 679··-v.
G. Reinmlller, Past Muter

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Carmel ·-······-···················No. 680.... Gordon C. Browne, P. M. and Rep •......... ~--Charles A. Watson, Past Master
Dos Palos ....................••No. 681.... Richard D. Crowe, Master..............................
George E. Ross, Senior Warden
James R. Pierce, Junior Warden
G. E. Holmes, Past Master............................
Leland L. Leonard, Past Master
Barstow ·······-·-···-·······-No. 682.... Norman Smith, Senior Warden.....·-··········-··
Redwood Empire ............No. 683.... Harry Morse Edwards, Junior Warden........
Trona ················-·········-·No. 684.... Hardin I. Lineback, Master............................
Lynn Allen Blackmun, P. M. and Inspector..
San Marl~o .................•.. No. 685.... Austin C. Schlegel, Master..............................
William H. Gardner, Senior Warden
George R. Friederich, Past Master
William J. Williams, Past Master..................
Albany ........................- ..No. 686.... Robert Richard Pruden, Senior Warden
Ambrose Ray Graham, Past Master
William R. Ross, Past Master
Vista ................................No. 687.... Jack R. Brenan, Master---··-····"···-···········-··
Edgar Waldo Roberts, Senior Warden
'
Oi!dale ...................•..,.....No. 688 .... Edmond Day Pruett, Master..........................
Henry Gladstone Dobie, Senior Warden
Harley Tera! Pinzon, Junior Warden
Ralph Eikema, Past Master
Fred Carlton Epperson, Past Master
Pohona ······-···················.No• 689.... Frederick Emanual Quist, Master..................
Lee Buzzini, Senior Warden

10.44
23.04
24.78 ·
47.26
25.50
46.38
46.38
50.66
50.66

56.96
35.92

34.28

San Carlos ···-················-No• 690.... Earl R. Crawford, Master
Jack W. Webster, Senior Warden
E. Ross Baylis, Junior Warden
M. F. Duxbury, Past Master
Ferd Prince, Past Master
Walter C. Simon, Past Master
Indian Wells Valley ...... No. 691.... Howard S. Clark, Master................................ 44.76
Norris C. Viles, Senior Warden
Travelers ············-······-No. 692.... Gilbert G. Green, Master.·-···················-·-···· 7.24
Donald E. Dawley, Senior Warden
James E. Oliphant, Junior Warden
J. H. D. Bassett, Past Master
Palm Springs ·········-·······No. 693.... Frederick A. Morrison, Master-- ·············--· 57.92
Marvin Wade, Senior Warden
William Patton Aikin, Junior Warden
San Antonio ·······--········No. 694.... D. Jack Goddard, Master.............................. _ 49.62
R. B. Jenkins, Senior Warden
Meudell ................•..•..••....No. 695.... Dewey A. Horton, Jr., Master........................ 35.92
MacDowell Gardner, Senior Warden
Frank C. King, Junior Warden
Crossroads ......................No. 696.... Martin E. Ettel, Senior Warden.................... 59.78
Frank H. Stewart, Junior Warden
Francis S. Firkins, Past Master
St. Elmo -························No. 697•... Vernon Ralph Keays, Master
Robert Hackett Burrows, Senior Warden
Rolla Alvis Wells, Junior Warden

'460

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
.GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

Mileage Allowed

William D. Stephens .... No. 698.... Wybren Hiemstra, Master...................__--.4
James B. Finney, Junior Warden
John X. Turk, Past Master
No 699.... Ma90n C. Jurgensen, Master...........- ........_
Kn0 II 8
n.. b
Herbert E. Bromle , Senior Warden
'
..................
=ll: Y
Perry H. Barrett, lrast Master
Hays Shipley, Junior Warden............
70CL.Arthur
No.
......................
Ponderosa
701
Valley
No
.........
.. Ludwig W. Burchard, Senior Warden..........
Sana
t Ynez
Senior Warden....................
L. Tem~le,
No 702.... Lyle
R
Junior Warden
A. Williamson,
Bertrand
osemead ........................ •

49.62
49.62
27.20
43.18
49.62

0. Bridgewater, Master.................... 49.62
No 703.... Donald
t
. Fred Davidson, Senior Warden
es tches er .................... .
Melvin Hall, Past Master
David R. White, Past Master
•Master.............................. 1.20
Blaine
Ori nda ............................ No' 704.... M.
Floe el, Senior Warden
E. Deleshe,
Richard
Wilbur D. Cr:ty, Past Master.................... 1.20
.
H. Ballance, Master
· ........................No, ' 705
El Cerrito
Gene C. Otwell, Past Master
· .... Robert

W

L

d
Hunters Point Naval .... No. 706.... Alvie A. Larkin, Mast~r
Frank C. Stewart, Jumor War en
Charles B. Moore, Past Master
No 707._L, F. Hillhouse, Master........- ...............- ....... 29.80
Lak Th
H. R. Willard Bulkley, Past Master
e a oe ..............._.. •
52.58
Master............................
Bosley,
S eafaring ........................No' 708.... George
Warden
Senior
Toedter,
Herman Lon
Stevens, Master
No. 709 John Franklin
.... Crist Harrison Burkhalder, Junior Warden
ren.zo .._.....................
. Edward Carl Will, Past Master
..:......: +4.22
Pugh, Muter
An acapa ..........................No' 710.... Lewis
Warden
Senior...........................
E. Taylor,
Albert A.
Paul F. Sheeter, Junior Warden
Robert L. Wilcox, Past Master
No 711 .H. Fay Smith, Sr., Master........................._ .• 55.50
R
f th W Id
... Howard E. Grider, Senior Warden
or .......... ·
e
Imo
Thomas E. Schrey, Past Master
James M. Soutar, Past Master
................................ 3.28
Master
Bailey,
Herbert
Lo s Al tos ........................No• 712.... John
Warden
Senior
W.S.Stout,

Lo

No. 713 Wallace D. Harrell, Master
Caa• V ll
.... Charles W . Christensen, Senior Warden
tro a ey -·········-···
Arthur R. McGinley, Junior Warden
Carl F. LaVo, P. M. and Inspector
M Frank Shumaker, Master
7H
0
d n
.... • J H I
Blue Lakes ·····-······-·--·N •
!vi • • iton, Juni or W are
Senior Warden............ 49.62
No. 715...•Douglas M. Wilson, Junior
. u p k
Warden
Harold A. Morrison,
Magno a ar ...........-..
Belmont

Sh

ore ··- ···-····-

N 0 716 James D. Herdman, Senior Warden .............. 49.62
·- ·Francis H. Gentry, Past Master
•

Wayfarer ................._No. 717.... ArthurcK. ~MvatNt, Jr., M.s:~;·:w;·;i~;;······
c amara,
Harry ec1
·
Eugene R. Conly, Past Master

1

51.22

Name ol lodge

No. of lodge

Representatives

'461
Mileage Allowed

San Lorenzo Valley.....•.. No. 718....Frank Gunther, Master........ ___,.,__. --···""'
Robert H. Ludlow, Senior Warden
Ernest L. Smith, Junior Warden

7.22

Estero ~----···-··-···--Net. 719.... Samuel L. Borradori, Master............ - ........... 31.12
Charles E. Peters, Junior Warden
Mineral King ..................No. 720....J. B. Luth, Muter......~ .............................,......:. 30.82
Home ..............................No. 721....William H. Eyler, Master...........:................_
Marius Thisted, Junior Warden

49.62

George E. Tutt................ No. 722.... L. E. Hendricks, Master..................................
Thomas E. Daugherty, Senior Warden
Henry P. Sermuks, Junior Warden

4.62

Acalanes ..........................No. 723.... Harold E. Pauli, Master............................. _ ,
J. Harold McCrum, Senior Warden
B. H. Burnett, Junior Warden

1.40

San Ramon Valley ........No. 724.... Jack V. Shahbazian, Maater............................
Maurice J. Juul, Senior Warden
David H. Humphrey, Junior Warden

2.00

Saint John's .................... No. 725.... Martin H. Quinn, Muter............................_ .
Paul R. Dale, Senior Warden
Merton H. Binker, Junior Warden
Edward C. Nevins, Past Master

1.70

Yucaipa ..........................No. 726....William H. McGaughy, Master.........~·-·-·.. 54.98
Joseph W . McKenney, Past Master
Verduga Hills ................No. 727....Walter H. Righter, Master........................,... 49.62
Phillip B. Stone, Senior Warden
Ariel C. Harris, Junior Warden
Ray C. Cathcart, Past Master
#
Lakewood ..............- ....... No. 728....Kenneth L. Hemphill, Muter................,....... 49.62
Floyd 0. Mason, Senior Warden
Fred B. Gray, Junior Warden
Centennial -·- ···-·-···........U. D..... Rlchard Edward Blum, Master...................... 49.62
Kenneth Alonzo Williams, Senior Warden
James Roy Rollans, Junior Warden
Two Rivera .........- .........._U. D ..... Not Represented
Polaris --·---·-·-······-···U. D ..... Robert A. Baumheckel, Maater......................
.
Charles V. Shaffer, Senior Warden
James A. Nash, Junior Warden
TOTAL ,........,.......·- · · - -···- ·--·..;....- ....$27,089.79
Non:: In accordance with the law, payments wer:e made to Past Masters, where shown,
in ofllcial and authorized capacities, and not to Past Masters as such.
See reports of Committee on Credentials and Committee on Pay of Members.

463

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

462

US T OF CO NS TIT UE NT LO DG ESer

US T OF CO NS TIT UE NT LODGES

and Mem bersh ip for the MuOn.ic Year
With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues,
Endi ng July 31, A. L. 5952
Chart w

Lodge

No.

location

lauecl

Fees

M...,.
Allll.
Fe• Du• ben

100 20.00 12 S'4S
·-····· lSS'O
1 San Francisco
6.00 12 BS
5'0
185'0
·-········
·······
ta
Shas
2
75' 10.00 12 804
2 W estem Star ··-···· ······· ·
mento .....•.....• 1S5'0
Sacra
12 228
75'
3 Teha ma ·--··· ······· ····-·· · 3 Benicia •......•••.••...•• 1S5'0
2.00 12 242
··-··· -··-· ·· fS
75'
-4 Benicia -···-........•
5'0
lS
·····
····-··
••..
·······
ra
.•.••••
Sono
f Tuol umn e
12 437
5'0
Marysville ...•........•• l S 5'0
5'.00 12 S'41
75'
6 Cori nthia n ······· ·····-· -··· 9
..............•. 1S5'0
Jose
San
12 S'46
125'
7 San Jose ·-··········- ···-- 10
Napa ···-··· ······· -····· lSfl
12 172
5'0
S Youn t ······- ······- ·-···· ··· 12 Neva da City •..•....•. lSH
2.00 12 216
5'0
9 Neva da ······· ······· ·-·---·· 13
..........•....••• lSH
ma
Sono
12 338
5'0
10 Tem ple ······· ··-···- ······· -· 1-4 Aubu rn -····- ······· ·· lSH
lS' .00 1S' 11 S
····-·· ····-·- - 16
100
1Sf2
•.....•.
11 Eure ka ·······
isco
Franc
San
5'0
12
12 La Parfa ite Unio n ........ 17
5'0
-···-· ···· 1S5'2
12 813
13 Mou ntain Shad e •......... 1S Downieville
so
1S5'2
Stock ton ······· -······ · 1S5'2
75' 10.00 12 838
14 San Joaq uin ······· ······· ··- 19
Sacramento
10.00 12 466
175'
1S5'2
.•...
H
15' Wash ingto n ·-····· ······· -· 20
T.
Hono lulu,
25'.00 18 709
100
1S5'2
.
16 Haw aiian -···-" "····· ··-··· 21
.•.....
San Francisco
12 32S'
7S
17 Occi denta l -···-· ······· ···· 22
··· l S 5'3
·-·····
y
Valle
s
Gras
12 202
5'0
lS Madi son -···· --···· ········· 23
1S5'3
········
······posa
Mari
61
5'.00 12
5'0
..••...... 1S5'3
19 Mariposa ···-·- ···-·· ····-· 24
n
getow
Geor
12 268
75'
20 Geor getow n -···- ·-··· - 2f
...•.• 1S5'3
•..•....
rville
Place
5'.00 12 139
125'
21 El Dora do ······· ······- -··· 26 Weaverville ···-··· ···· 1S5'3
27
······· ······· ··· 30
100 10.00 12 660
1S5'3
........
22 Trini ty -······
isco
Franc
San
23 Gold en Gate ••.......•...•.•
1.00 12 116
5'0
Lincoln -····- ···--· ·· 1S5'3
7S
4.00 12
5'0
2-4 Gold Hill ······· ··-···· ·····- 3 2 Murp hy's ········ ·-····· 1S5'3
12 1030
so
2 5' Oph ir -······ ······· ······· ·-·· 3 3 San Dieg o .............. 1S5'3
1.00 12 25'0
5'0
26 San Dieg o ···-·· -····· ···- 3 5'
lSH
a ·-····· ······· ····· lSH
1.00 12 5'2-4
27 How ard ......•...•....••.•.••.. 37 Yrek
80
.•....
........
Sant a Cruz
12 75'9
3S
10.00
75'
lSH
....
........
o
2S Santa Cruz ···············-··· -40
Sacrament
12 402
•• •• .,J..
75'
SH
1
•
29 Sacra ment o ·-···· ·····-· ··
....•.•
Mart inez ........
12 769
-41
·
10.00
··--·100
·····-·····
18H
inez
30 Mart
Los Angeles
12 101
42
10.00
··-····
75'
······
les
Ange
31 Los
El Dora do ···-········· lSH
100 10.00 12 ..409
isco ........ lSH
Franc
l 2 Hira m ······ ······ ····-- - -43
San
6.00 12 197
5'0
lSf-4
33 Mou nt Mori ah ······· ··-··· -44
Crescent City
H
1.00 12
5'0
3-4 Cres cent -····- ······· ·-···· · -4f
lSf-4
·
-······
·······
San Juan
S'.00 12 110
5'0
lSH
3'1' Texa s ······· ······- ······· ·--· -46
·····-···
Forbestown
91
12
60
36 Porbestown ······· -······ ··· fO
Colfax -···-· ·····- ···- lSH
12 239
75'
37 Illinoistown ······ ·-··-· ·· fl
84
Suisun -····· ······ -·-· lSH
5'0 10.00 12
3S Suisun ······· ······- ···-·· ·· ff
Volcano •........•....•... lS'J'J
5'.00 12 632
5'6
75'
·
····-··
lSH
-······
....
·······
•.......
ano
Rosa
Volc
39
Sant a
75' 10.00 12 735'
-40 Santa Rosa -···-· ······ ·-· '$7
Sacra ment o •......•..•. 18H
68
12
5'S
5'0
-···
·····lSH
--···
..
n
........
-41 Unio
Camptonville
12 20S'
2.5'0
f9
··-·125'
·······
e
Rang
el
Grav
-42
Quincy ·-···- ···-·· ··· lSH
75' 25'.00 12 1018
-43 Plumas ························- 60 Oakl and ••..••.•.•..•••• lSf'J
5'.00 12 25'3
61
5'0
············
·-·····
1S5'5'
-4-4 Live Oak
Folsom ....................
S4
5'.00 12
5'0
6-4
····-·
·-····· ·······
-45' Nato ma ..••....
··· lSH
26
12
Jackson ······· -······
•.•••.......•••. 65'
S'O
-46 Ama dor
Alleg hany .............. lSf'J
649
12
80
66
······· -······ ··-·
47 Fore st ······Stock ton ·-····- ······· 1 Sff
5'.00 12 35'0
5'0
4S Morn ing Star .......••..•..•. 6S
75'
Yuba City ······· ··-··· lS'Jf
3.00 12
S'O
70
·····
····-··
lSf'J
........
p
49 Ente rpris e ·······........
Cam
l's
Ange
.....• 76
10.00 12 116
SS'
5'0 Bear Mou ntain
lSH
...
.......
eas
Andr
San
18 494
7S'
-······ ··-··· 7S
n Calaveras ·······
-··· lSH
87
12
Eure ka ···-··········
5'0
18'1'6
•
•••.•••
f2 Hum bold t ·-···· -····· ··-· 79
.•.••.••
96
80 Ione •.•••...
12
5'0
n lone
1S5'6
·-··················· 18f6
12 23S
Yolo
100
81
··-·····
·····
...•...•
5'-4 Yolo ·····
Red Bluf •.......
7f 10.00 12 1233
'Jf Vesp er ·-·· ·-·· ·-·· -- 8<4
jo -····- ······ ·- 18f6
Valle
17
--·f6 Nava l --·· ··-1 California ·-····· ······· ··-·-

N
o.

lod9e

' B

Lo

Chart

cation

l11uecl

18'1'6
'l'7 R
Smartville
oae s ar ····-··········.:.. S9
·············• 185'6
18 Nort h Sta r ······· ···-·- ··- 91
Fort Jone s
St. Hele na -······ ······ lSS' 6
19 St. Hele na -···-· ······ ···- 93
Sutte r Cree k··········· 1SS'6
60 Hen ir Clay ··-··· -····· ··- 95'
·-····· ·· 1S5'6
Hom itos
9S
61 Hom1t?a ·············-·······
ed ·········•······ lSS'
62 Yosemite .•......•..........•.• 99 Merch Fl~t···········-··· 1S5'66
Dutc
63 CJ ay ...:.•...••......••.•...••..•-.101
·············· 1S5'6
ille
Orov
0
··103
·······
·············
e
ro;vilJ
64
4 El Monte·················· 1S•6
'
6S' ALexmgton ······· ······- -···10
················
106
66 rcata
1857
··················•· 185'7
ta
Arca
····
·-·····
·······
·······
67 Paiar 0
onville
---·· ·····- ·····-· ·-110 Wats
'·
············
Ch·
68 Chico -···- -··-· ··-·- 111
y·····-······· 1188 77
~~·F;rr
Kn~cght
ll
--··-··
2
mit
Sum
69
'
······t
70 Eden
San Lean dro- ······· · 185'7
13
71 Con co- d-·- -··-· -14
185'7
o
ment
Sacra
. . r -··· · · - - - 17
Francisc~·········· 185'8
72 Fidelity --··· ····· -·-- 120 San ut Cree k ········ 18 .. 8
Waln
-122
'
73 Alam o -····· ······: ·-·--········
7-4 Sotoyome -·····; ······- ·····123
Heal dsbu rg ..:......... 1S5'8
185'8
···
7
ise ·············ntam ·---. 124 Paradstopo
7~ rabl e Mou
1SS'8
l
Seba
a Fayette -····· ···--· ····12 6
s~~·········· 1S5'8
Franci
San
77 H~r~ann -····· -···- ·--1 27
······· · lS .. 9
78 V~sal1a ··-···- ····-·· ······· ··1 28 Visalia ················
,
···
_..: 1u9
...•...
79 Ni l
d
atlan
Whe
·-············-··129
i--··
W~~b\
80
·········• 1S5'9
~~d~dge········
81 Sinc eri: .~e ·······---··~:~
···•·· 1S5'9
e
envill
V~
'4
-13
82 Vacaville --·- ···-··-·· · 1S5'9
·······
e
Lind
.
137
83 Valley ••••
San F~ci;~~·········· ~:~g
8-4 Pacific ······· ·-·-- ··-··· ·--13 6 San
Francisco .....•.. 1S60
139
-·······-··
SS' Croc~ett ······
···-··· 1S60
e
erdal
Clov
0
86 Cum s ····--· ····-·· ······· -··1-4
·············· 1S60
K · ts Land
1~1
ing
87 Graf ton
nigh
"T
·
·······
. ······· --··-·
.... 1S61
s F ra_nklin
Cour tland
······· ······- ···-·-- 143
8
. ··•···········
89 Onen tal
1S61
•·······
lsco
FranC
90 Vitruvius ·-················--~!! BSaln
oomfield ·············· 1S61
"T•
······
'·······
·-····"
ll
Ab
91
Ukia h ·······-··········· 1S61
e ······· ······- ····-·· ··--14 6
1861
92 Eel Ri ver ······- ······· ·-···1 4'1
Fortu na
··············· 1862
ill~··
Susanv
9
·-14
······
·····-·····
n
9 3 Lass~
··············
1•0 T
94 Moli no
eham a •················· 1862
·-···- ·- - - - - '
9f Woo
······ 1863
·-·····
dland
dland ·-·-- ··-- -B6 Woo
1863
96
Milto n
Keystone ·-····~--· ---161
1864
······
·-·····
cit;;·
a
Sierr
.f
-16
••••••.
~
.
.......
97 Harm ony
San Francis~···-···· 186-4
9S Excelsior -······ ·····-- ---16 c5
······· · 1864
erville
Cent
6'1
····-1
99 Alam eda ·-···· ·-·-·
·············• 1864
City
ood
City
LOO Redw.
Redwood
······· -·····1 68
San Francisco ····•··· 186-4
101 Mi mon ······ ·····- ····-- -169
········ lS 6 5'
Grov e
Elk
102 Elk Grove -···- ·--- 1'1 3
outh ···-··· ······ 1S6S'
Plym
1'14
···----····
·-····
wn
D~o
103
··············
Anti och
10-4 Antt och --··· ·-··- ··-1 7f
······ 11886665'
i-;;~·
Bem;~d
San
78
---1
···-·
"·-enix.
110065' MPho
······
endo cmo ··-·· ··-·· ·-179 Men d ocino ············ 1866
1866
107 Petal_uma ·-··· -··-- --18 0 Petal uma .
sor ··············· 1866
Wind
181
·-·········
r
Rive
an
108 Ru881
················
182 A b
1867
109 Arbu ckle
r uckle ················ 1867
······· ··-·- 8
110 Clea r Lake·-·····
Lake
r
Lowe
···-··· ·····-- ···1 3
.
aville ············ 1867
::~ ClS1e?'ba Valley -······ ··-···· 184 Sierr t Aren~············ 1867
Poin
&1 ?me ·-···- ······· ·-·· 18f
·······•·•
E
113 Evem ng Star ·-············· 186
~a Mi1ls ······· ··-··· 1867
11-4 Keith
187 Gilroy ·-····· ······· ····· 1868
···-·· ·····
11 S' Oakl a ·-···· ····-..,......- ••••• 188 Oakl and ····-·· ······· 1868

?

:::=_::=

0

nd ......

Con tinu ed
FHs

Affil
MemF •
ees Dues bers

12
12
15'
12
12
12
12
12
12
l2
1 S'
12
12
12

34 ,
63
135'
82
102
10.00
489
99
346
S'.00
1.00
S'64
1
324
.OO
408
,
5'26
7'J 10.00
44
5'.00
S'O
75'
442
7S' 10.00 12 371
100 15'.00 15' 5'61
1 .. 422
75'
'
1S' 205'
~6 'J.00 12
205'
1.00
12 223
S'O
100 20.00 18 209
B H2
7S'
rn 5 0
106
f:og
175'
5'0
'J.00 12 100
100
12 224
7'5
95'
S'O 12.00 12
100 20.00 12 5'91
75' 2S'.OO lS' 5'SO
78
S' 00 12
S'O
·
50
5'.00 12 112
7•
5' 00 18 136
,
100 u:oo 15' 384
10
5'0
12 126
. o 12
•o
30S'
,
12 249
S'O
12 239
60
12 169
1.00
~g
12 291
30
2.S'O 12
S'O
25'
5'.00 12
S'O
75' 20.00 12 499
S' 00 12 183
75'
·
10O 1.00
l8 606
100 rn.oo 12 701
5'0 10.00 12 137
5'4
5'.00 12
S'O
S'.00 12 34S
7S'
'5 00 12 671
75'
·
5'.00 12 122
S'O
12 35'1
80
5'.00 12 121
75'
1
fO
86
.OO 12
88
S'O 10.00 12
50
12
40
66
5'.00 12
5'D
S'O
12
5'6
5'0
1122 17S
2.00
7'J
1.00
95'0

5'0
5'0
5'0
60
H
50
S'O
5'0
1 S'O
100
7 ..

.. 00
'·
5'.00
1.00

g

LIST OF CONST ITUEN T LODGE~ontinued
Lod9e

No.

Location

Charter
luued

116 Northern Light ·-·········190 Millville ............•..... 1868
San Rafael ·-··········· 1868
117 Marin ···················-·····-191
Santa Barbara ........ 1868
118 Santa Barbara -·-·····-19 2
119 Ferndale •••.....•...•.•••....••• 193
Ferndale ·-············· 1869
120 Mountain View -·····-···194 Mountain View •..... 1869
1869
121 Buckeye ···········-·· ·····..l9f Winters •........•......... 1869
122 San Simeon .••...••....•...••196 Cambria •.•..............
123 Wilmingto n -···-····-· 198 Wilmingto n -·········· 1869
124 Hartley ··············· ··--·-199 Lakeport ·-········-··· 1869
12S' Truckee ·········-··-· ····-200 Truckee -···-·······- · 1869
Dixon ·············-····· 1869
126 Sil veyville ·············-·····20 I
1869
127 Pentalpha ··-·--····- --202 Los .Angeles
Castroville .............. 1869
128 Confidence .••...•......•..••.•203
129 Salinas -··-·-··-·-· -···-204 Salinas ···-··-···-·· ··· 1869
130 Olivet ·······-····-·· ·········-20f Corning ·-··············· 1870
131 Stanislaus -··--···-·- ··-206 Modesto -·············· 1870
13 2 .Anaheim •.•..••••.•.•••••. _207 .Anaheim ···-··········· 1870
··-·····-····· 1870
133 Rio Vista ·······-····· ··-208 Rio Vista Obispo
.... 1870
San Luis
134 King David's -··········-·2 09
lH Friendship ·-···-··-·- -210 San Jose ·-············· 1871
Hollister ..•............. 1871
136 San Benito ··············-·-·211
137 So. San Francisco .....•.. 212 San Francisco ••...... 1871
138 San Buenaventura •.....•. 214 Ventura ·-···-········· · 1871
Alameda ·········-····· 1871
139 Oak Grove ···--·-··-··· ···21"
........ 1871
140 Doric ·······-·•·-- ·-····-216 San Francisco
1871
···-···········
Monterey
·····217
-····-········
141 Monterey
-··········· 1872
142 Mosaic ·-····--··-·· ·-·-··218 Livermore
143 Speranza ltaliana •........•219 San Francisco •....... 1872
Downey- ······--··-· 1872
144 Downey -····-·--- ·--220
Independe nce ......•. 1872
14S' Inyo -··-··-·-··· ······-·-22 1
1912
146 Roseville ·-········-··· ·--222 Roseville ········-······
1873
147 Bakersfield ·····-········· --224 Bakersfield .............. 1873
148 Brooklyn ·····--··-· ·-227 East Oakland
.............. 1873
149 San Mateo ·············-· ··-226 San Mateo
...•. 1873
1S'O Athens --·-··--· ···-228 Davis ........••.......
· 1873
I S'l Solano ····-··-······· ··-··--229 Vallejo ·-·········-··
• 1873
l S'2 North Butte -···-······-· 230 Gridley •................
Covelo ·······-··-···· · 1874
1S'3 Covelo ···-··--···· ··---231
1874
l f4 Janesville ··--····-····· .,..232 Janesville ··-·········- 1874
I H Calistoga ·····----·- ·-211 Calistoga ...••.•.•.••.•.•
l S'6 Hope ·----·-· ·--214 Beck:wourth ·-········· 1874
1874
1"7 Surprise Valley ··--··--2H Cedarville ........•..... 1874
l S'S Hi1l"s Ferry ·-······-···- 236 Newman ...•..•..•......
I f9 Guadalupe ·-····-··- 237 Santa Maria -··--···· 1874
160 Colusa ·····----···· ···-·-240 Colusa ··············-· ··· 187f
Santa .Ana ·········-··· 1876
161 Santa .Ana --·········- -241
Santa Barbara ........ 1876
162 Magnolia ·····-·-···-·· ·--242
Hayward ...............• 1876
163 Eucalyptus ·--·-··--- 243
Oakland •....•.. 1877
164 Alcatraz ·············-·········244 West
····-·······-· - 1877
Willows
·----24f
·······--·
Laurel
16S'
·-··············· 1877
166 Pomona -·············· ····--246 Pomona.................
... 1878
167 Presno -·---·-- --247 Fresno
. 1878
..•..............
.Alturas
168 Alturas ··-·········-·· ··-·-··248
169 .Adin ·-·-··-- -··---2f 0 .Adin ·············-·· ····· 1878
Esparto ·········-······· 1879
170 Landmark .••...•..••..•.•.•_.2 fl
1'11 Reading -····--·--·· ·•-·274 Redding ··-·····-··- 1879
172 Welcome ·····-···-··- ·-··2H Lemoore ··············- 1879
- 2 ' 6 Lodi ·········-····· ··-··· 1879
1'7! Lodi ·1'4 P~yn -·-···--- --2fl Penrhyn ·---····- 1880

i65

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

464

FS'O
100
7S'

Aflll.

LIST OF CONST ITUEN T LODGE S-Cont inued
M-

Fees Du• berw
S'.00 12
92
10.00 l S' S'49
lS' 347
rn
12 104
S'.00 12 34S'
100
S'.00 12 141
7'1
S'O
12
92
100
12 S'98
S'O . 3.00 12 237
60
S'.00 12 120
60
S'.00 12 1"6
100 20.00 l S' "37
7S'
12
7S'
12 S'68
rn
12 128
7S'
12 641
S'O
1.00 12 443
12 1"7
7S'
80
1.00 12 420'
7S'
S'.00 12 720
rn 1.00 12 161
9S' 10.00 12 264
7S'
12 409
7S'
1.00 12 629
100 10.00 lS' 498
7S'
lS' 272
7S' 10.00 12 189
12 311
100
100
12 61"
rn mo 12 163
rn 2.S'O 12 37S'
100
lS' 816
lS' S'89
7'1
100
18 S'44
12 173
rn
7S' 10.00 12 S'87
12 213
S'O
64
12
rn
1.00 12 16S'
7S'
S'.00 12 119
S'O
S'O 10.00 12 124
rn 1.00 12 77
rn 10.00 12 1"6
7S' 10.00 12 168
S'O 10.00 18 1"9
1.00 12 S'91
7S'
41"
7S'
12 468
99
7S' 10.00 12 646
rn S'.00 12 240
2.00 12 394
S'O
3.00 12 712
80
1.00 12 192
S'O
rn 2.00 lS' 108
rn 1.00 12 114
rn S'.00 12 220
12 209
7S'
12 38S'
rn
rn 3;QO 12 lH

,..

.,.

Lod9e

No.

17S' Evergreen .........•..••••.•••2f9
176 King Solomon•• ------260
177 Tuscan ·-··········· ···---261
178 Lompoc -······-- --262
179 Hesperian ·········-···· ·-264
180 Orlind ··········-·- ·----26f
181 North East •..•..•.••.•..••••-266
182 Galt -···-·-···- -··---267
183 Durant ·-·········-··· -····--268
184 Olive Branch ·-········-2 69
18S' Snow Mountain ·--····--271
186 Pasadena -·····--··-· ·-272
187 .Anchor -······--···· ·-···-273
188 .Arroyo -·······-- ··-·274
189 Oakdale ·-·······-··· ····-27"
190 Selma -············ -··-·--277
191 Southern California •••..• 278
192 Hanford -········-··· ····-279
193 Madera ···················----280
194 Mount Shasta ·-········--28 1
l 9S' Callayomi ·-·-·-········ ···-282
196 South West ·--··········- -283
197 San Miguel --······--- 28"
198 Paso Robles ···-··········· -286
199 Winnedum ah -·····---.2 87
200 Maxwell -·············· ··-····288
201 Elsinore -···-··-··· ···-289
202 East Gate ·······-······ ·--290
203 Santa Paula ·-'·····-····---291
204 Los Gatos ·-···-········ ···-292
20S' Orange Grove ········-·--29 3
206 Traver ·-········--· ····---294
207 Mt. Jackson ····--····-· ·29f
208 Silver Gate ...............••••.296
209 Dunsmuir ·······-···-·- -··297
210 Liberty ·-···-······· ·····--299
211 Redland. . ··················--100
212 Ontario ·······-······- -·--JOI
213 Santa Lucia .••...•.•.••.•.•••102
214 Porterville -·-··-··-·-- -103
21 f Reedley ···········-··· ·--···104
216 .Azusa ·-··-···· ---··-IOJ
217 Ashlar ·--··········· -···---306
218 Santa Monica ·----30 7
219 Monrovia ·-·········-·- ··-108
220 Delano --····-- --109
221 Siason -··-·--··- ·---110
222 Los Bano1 -···-·---- 312
223 Tehachafi ··-············ --113
224 Temesca ·················---114
22 S' Norwalk -·-······-· ··-..I l f
226 Sanger ·----··· ·-116
227 Pallbrook ··-··--·- -·H 7
228 Emmanuel ··-···-·······- ··118
229 Hollenbeck ------S lf
230 South Gate -·-····-- 120
231 .AJHal ········-··--· ·-···-··321
232 .Alhambra ····---·· -322
233 Whittier ····-··-·- --SU

Lo~tlon

Charter
luued

Riverside ................ 1880
San Francisco ••...... 1880
Williams ···········-··· 1880
Lompoc ·······-········ · 1881
Santa Maria .•.......•.. 1882
Orland ······-········· · 1882
Fort Bidwell ••........ 1882
Galt ···-··········- ······· 1883
Berkeley •......•..•..... 1883
Tulare ·-················· 1883
Stony Ford ....•..•.... 1884
Pasadena ......•......... 1884
Comptt>n .•......•....... 1884
.Arroyo Grande •..... 1884
Oakdale .................. 1884
Selma •.......•............. 188S'
Los .Angele1 ·····-··· 188S'
Hanford ·-············· 188S'
Madera -·-····-······ · 188S'
.Anderson •..•..••.....• 1886
Middletown ·-········· 1887
National City •.•..... 1887
San Miguel ·····-····· 1887
Paso Robles ....•.•....• 1887
Bishop ·-················· 1887
Maxwell •.......•.•..... 1888
Elsinore -··-············ 1888
Los .Angele1 ·····-··· 1888
Santa ·Paula ·······-··· 1888
Los Gatos •.•...•....••• 1888
Orange •.......•.•......• 1889
Kingsburg ......•......• 1889
Guemeville •.........•• 1889
San Diego ............•• 11189
Dunsmuir ·······-····· 1889
Santa Clara ............ 1890
Redlands ••.•............ 1890
O?ttarto :······-········· 1890
Kings City ......•..... 1890
Porterville -······-·- 1890
Reedley ·············-·· · 1891
Azusa --·········-· ·- 1891
Colton .......•............ 1891
Santa Monica ·-···- 1891
Monrovia .•....•..•..•• 1891
Delano -·············· · 1892
Mount Shasta ••.•.... 1892
Loe Banoa •.....•..•.... 1892
Tehachapi ····-········ 1892
Corona ·······-········· 1893
Norwalk •....•••....•... 1893
Sanger ·······-··-···· ··· 1893
Fallbroolt ........•......• 1893
Biggs --··········-·· ····· 1893
Los .Angeles -······- 1894
Los .Angeles ••........ 1894
Pleasanton --··-······ 1894
Alhambra ······-·····- 1894
Whittier ··-···-········ · l 89S'

Few

Atlll.

F9et

7S'
7S'
S'O

7S'
7S'

rn

S'O
S'O

80
7S'
7S'
7S'
12S'

rn

7'1

80
7S'

rn
rn
rn
rn
7S'
rn

7S'
7S'
7S'
7S'
7f
S'O
7S'
7S'
S'O

rn
rn

80
7S'
7S'
S'O
7S'
S'O
7f
7S'

,.,.

80
7'S'
100

"°

7S'
7f
S'O

7S'
7S'

,.,.

S'O
7f
100

rn

7f
7S'

1.00
2.00
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00

Duet

12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
lS'

1.00

12
12
lS'

6.00
1.00
12.00

12
12
lS'

Mem·
kn

6S'8
488
94
186
368
160
61
87
"32
31"
44

H3
S'68
168
190
23"
n2
224
270
102
68
460
64
2S'8
226
71

12
12
3.00 l S'
12
S'.00 12
1.00 12
10.00 12
3.00 12
lS'
12
lS' Ul
10.00 12 823
lS' 368
18 322
1.00 18 271
12 l S'7
18 132
12 1287
12 301
12 318
10.00 12 438
········ - 12 418
lS' BS
12 477
12 166
10.00 12 274
12 287
12 390
lS' 29S'
12 233
2.00 12 107
12 BS'
1.00 12 214
2.00 12 229
12 284
12 331
S'.00 12 1"6
83
S'.00 12
10.00 12 1031
2S'.OO IS' 621
12 HO
•......• 12 647
12 731

PROCEED INGS OF THE

466

LIST OF CONST ITUEN T LODGE S-Cont inued
Lod;e

No.

Location

Charter
luued

467

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

F9a

MemAflll.
FH1 Du.. bera

15' 474
..........•..... 189'i
234 Corona :•...·-····-···········324 Pasadena
'iO
12 270
189'i
············Escondido
·32f
235 Consuelo ····-·····-····1.00 12 3H
7'i
............•..... 1896
236 Needles ·······-···············326 Needles
100 2'>.00 12 601
Long Beach ............ 1896
237 Long Beach - ····-·----327
12 5'46
100
..........•..... 1897
238 Redondo ·····- -········-···328 Redondo
1897
100 12.00 I') 12 ')
239 Vallee de France ·-·······329 Los Angeles
12 227
12'i
Hilo, T. H. •........... 1897
240 Kilauea ·····················-···3 30 Pacific Grove ........ 1897
7')
1') 262
241 Pacific Grove ······- ······-3 31
80 2'> .00 I') 'ii 5'
San Pedro .............. 1897
242 San Pedro •...........•.•.•••. 332
9'i
')3
mo 12
Bridgepor t ·-··········· 1897
243 Alta ··········-- ··--·····-··3 33
12 337
'iO
...................• 1898
Covina
·········354
·-··············
Covina
244
I') 1067
12'>
Los Angeles .......... 1899
H'> West Gate ·······-······· ---33'
100 2'>.00 16 876
246 Fruitvale •.•.................•.•. 336 Oakland ...............• 1899
12 209
'iO
Crockett ................ 1899
247 Carquine~ ·-···"··-···········337
12 10~
'iO
1899
···-·······
Jacinto
San
·338
HS San Jacinto ···········-····
7')
12 388
1900
•
.....•...........
Fullerton
249 Fullerton ················· -···339
1.00 I') 396
7'>
1901
·
·······-········
Oxnard
2'i0 O:u1ard ....•....:...•.·-··-···341
7')
12 '>61
San Fernando .........• 1902
251 San Fernando ....••.•....•. 343
10.00 l 'i Bf
100
1902
........
Francisco
San
252 Starr King - ···-·······-··· 344
12 143
'iO
253 Brentwood •......•.....••••.••34f Brentwood .•............ 1902
12 738
.00
'l
100
1902
Alto ·······-·····
2H Palo Alto ·-···-···-···-··346 Palo
12 491
7'i
Richmond .............. 1902
2'>'> McKinley .....•..•....•••...•••347
7'> 10.00 12 74')
San Bernardino .....• 1902
25'6 San Bernardino ............ 348
1.00 15' 108 5'
100
2 'i7 Sequoia •........••...•.•...•••. 349 Oakland .•...•.......... 1902
100 10.00 12 602
1903
···-·····
Angeles
Los
·-··-3fl
···-···-····2'i8 Palestine
l'i 378
7'i
Los Angeles .......... 1903
H9 Sunset ·-··-~·-··············-3f2
7'i 2'$.00 12 173
1903
···
·············-··
Pinole
260 Pinole ·-···-···-··· ·-·······3f3
100 20.00 12 ')}')
1903
San Francisco
261 Presidio •..•....•..••.•....••••. 3f 4
12'i l'>.00 12 1244
1903
............
Hollywood
3ff
.•.
.................
262 Hollywood
l') 448
80
263 Mill Valley .................... 3f6 Mill Valley •.........•... 1903
12 237
30
1903
....•.......
Park
Buena
3f7
.
264 Buena Park ....•.......•...•
10.00 12 828
7'>
1904
-········
Angeles
Los
Sf8
26'> Golden State ................
99
12
'iO
Loyalton ................ 1904
266 Loyalton ·······-········ ·······3f9
l'i 31'>
100
1904
Francisco
San
267 San Francisco ..........••.•.. 360
'>.00 12 136
7'i
Fort Bragg .............. 1904
12 l'iO
268 Fort Bragg ·················-·361
7'>
1904
................
Campbell
269 Charity ··············· ·····-·-362
'$.00 12 661
7')
1904
........•.......
Berkeley
270 Berkeley ·-·······--··· ·-···363
1.00 12 163
'iO
Willits ·-········--····· 190'i
271 Willits ·········-······ --···- 36f
'i.00 12 1030
80
··· 190'i
272 Las Palmas ··-···-····-·····366 Fresno ·-··············
7') 10.00 12 601
South Pasadena ...... 190'i
273 South Pasadena •........... 367
12 619
100
Glendale ........•....... 190'i
12 H'i
274 Unity ·······-····-·· ·······-··368
80
190'i
............
Park
Ocean
369
27'i Ocean Park -····-····-··
100 2'>.00 18 4'i0
190'i
San Francisco
276 Amity ·············-·· ···········170
17'i 10.00 12 708
190'i
-··
H.
T.
Honolulu,
371
277 Le Progres de !'Oceanie
').-00 12 364
lO'i
1906
........•.......
Gardena
278 Gardena ·····-········· ·······372 West Los Angeles.... 1906
3.00 H 421
7'i
279 West Los Angeles ·-·····373
100 10.00 12 19'i
1906
Francisco
San
280 Jewel ·······-····-· ···--·-··374
100 2'i.OO 12 5'34
San Francisco •....... 1906
281 Richmond ·····-········-···37f
'$.00 18 370
100
1906
..
Francisco
San
So.
282 Francis Drake ..............376
12 186
'iO
1906
...
.................
Artesia
283 Artesia ····-··········· ····-···377
12 438
.00
2'>
100
1906
Los Angeles
284 Mizpah ..................•.....••378
1 '> 241
1.00
'iO
1906
.
Fillmore .................
28'> Fillmore ..........•..........•..379
12 324
7'i
Huntingto n Beach .. 1906
286 Huntingto n Beach ........ 380
'$.00 12 401
7'i
1906
..............
Oceanside
···381
287 Oceanside ····-·······-··
12 6H
7'>
Los Angeles .......... 1907
288 Highland Park •............. 382
1'> 147
'iO
1907
....•
••...............
Orosi
383
.........•..
•••.••.•....•.•.
289 Orosi
12 440
7'i
.............• 1907
290 El Centrl) ············-··· ·····384 El Centro.................• 1907
12 304
'iO
Dinuba
38f
•.
_
........•.
:
291 Dinuba ...........
100 ........ ' 12 398
1907
................
Coalinga
292 Coalinga ·····-··-···-- -387
7')

LIST OF CONST ITUEN T LODGE S-Cont inued
l.od;e

No.

293 Parnassus ·-···-···--· --388
294 Palos Verdes ·········-···-3 89
29'') Imperial ..•..•..•••.•.•••..••••. 390
296 East Belt ·······-·--- ·--391
297 West Lake ·······-···········392
298 Balder ·····-···-·· ·····--393
299 University ········-···-· ·-394
300 Turlock ·-···-···-· ·---S9f
301 Apollo ················ ···-·-··396
302 Rising Light - ···--··--39 7
303 Fraternity ·······-····-·· ·····399
304 Burlingame ·- ··-····--40 0
30'> Bay View.......- ...•......•.... 401
306 Brawley ·········--··· ·--402
307 Yerba Buena •.......•.•••.•. 403
308 Glendora ·-···--···-·· ·-··404
309 Moneta ·············-····-···40f
310 Burbank ················· -·····406
311 La Mesa -······················407
312 Sierra Madre ................ 408
l 13 Honolulu ~.................••.•409
314 Charter Rock •...........•.•. 410
31 '> Perris -··-·······- ····-··--·41 1
316 Calexico ·········-········-···'412
317 Arlington - ····- ···--414
318 Silver Trowel ·-····-···--4 1 'i
319 Lindsay ·······-······- ···-··•16
320 Clovis ·······-········ ···-·-···417
321 Elysian ······-··--·· ····--<fl8
322 Upland •...•.••..•.:•....••.- •• 419
323 Kerman -··-····-· ·---<flO
324 Inglewood ..•.•.•••...•..••.•• 421
32'i Eagle Rock ·······-········ ·422
326 York ···············- ·········-413
327 Exeter ·······-······· ····-···•24
328 Holtville ·-··············-···42f
329 Midway ........•.........••.•.• 426
330 Chino Valley ............••.•.f27
331 San Dimas ·············-- -<fl8
3 3 2 Pittsburg ·······-······· ·--429
33 3 McCloud ·-············· ···-·•30
3 3 4 Alpha ·--·········-· ······-- ·.. 31
33'i Hammonto n ···········-···433
336 Maricopa - ·--······-·-- -43.f
337 Fairmount ..............•..•..43'
338 Claremont ···-····-····- -·-•36
339 Lancaster ········-······· ·····•37
340 Acacia ·-·············· ······-·•38
341 Tyrian -·····-········ ····-···439
342 Standard --···-·······--.f40
343 Coronado ···················-·••t
344 Blackmer ·-····-········ ---4.fl
34'i Schofield .•................•... 443
346 Carpinteria ·············-·· ·444
347 Wilshire ·············-·· ··-···4.ff
348 La Puente ..................•... 446
349 Torrance ·····-················•4.f7
3 'iO Mt. Diablo ···············-···..,.8

Location

Charter
luued

1907
San Francisco
Long Beach ............ 1907
Imperial ................ 1908
Tuolumne ·-··········· 1908
1908
Los Angeles
San Francisco ........ 1908
Los Angeles •......... 1908
Turlock ···········- ····· 1908
Alameda ........••...... 1908
Huntingto n Park.. 1908
San Jose ................ 1908
Burlingame ·............ 1908
Oakland ................ 1909
Brawley •..........•...... 1909
Oakland .........•...... 1909
Glendora ................ 1909
Los Angeles .......... 1909
Burbank ................ 1909
La Mesa ·-·············· · 1910
Sierra Madre .......... 1910
Honolulu, T. H . .... 1910
Berkeley ................ 1910
Perris .................... 1910
Caltxico ........•....... 1910
Los Angeles ............ 1910
Hollywood .............. 1910
Lindsay ................. . 1910
Clovis .................... 1910
Los Angeles .......... 1910
Upland ·············-·· · 1911
Kerman ·········-······· 1911
Inglewood .............. 1911
Eagle Rock ....•....... 1911
Los Angeles ............ 1912
Exeter .................... 1912
Holtville ................ 1912
Taft ........................ 1912
Chino ·-················· 1912
San Dimas ..,.·-······· 1912
Pittsburg - ·············· 1912
McCloud ................ 1912
Richmond -- ······· .. -· 1912
Hammonto n .......... 1913
Maricopa ................ 1913
San Francisco ........ 1913
Claremont •............. 1913
Lancaster ................ 1913
Los Angeles .......... 1913
Manteca ................ 1913
Oakland ·····-········· 1914
Coronado .............. 1914
San Diego ············- 1914
Schofield
Barracks, T. H ... 1914
Carpinteria ............ 1914
Los Angeles .......... 1914
Puente ··········-········ 191.f
Torrance ...•..•.•....... 1914
Concord ................ 191.f

AfRI.
Fee1 Dues

Fea

Mem·
ben

15' 767
12 698
10.00 12 123
90
'>.00 12
'iO
loo rn.oo 12 917
100 20.00 12 'i02
100 10.00 12 617
l'i 391
80
1.00 12 467
7'>
12 1032
100
') .00 12 4'i0
100
18 686
100
mo 12 63'i
7'i
l'i 229
7')
100 2'i.OO 1'i 911
12 l 'iO
'iO
12 699
10'>
'i.00 12 728
100
3.00 12 H9
100
12 15'6
7'i
17'> 10.00 12 406
mo 12 344
7'i
3.00 12 146
'iO
'l.00 12 l'i6
'iO
l'i 349
7'>
12'i 10.00 12 394
18 218
'iO
12 457
80
7'> 2'i.OO 12 4'i0
3.00 12 224
'iO
12 124
,,,
12'i 2'i.OO 12 729
12 'il8
100
12 35'5
100
12 221
'iO
12 143
7'i
12 497
'iO
12 140
5'0
12 168
'i'i
1.00 12 314
7'>
99
12
'iO
12 'i06
7'i
64
12
;o
12 183
'iO
l 'i 474
100
12 11 'i
'iO
6.00 12 319
7'i
'i'i
18
7'r
12 186
'iO
l'i 348
7'i
12 407
75
12 1270
80

100
12'i
7'i

10.00

12'i
'iO
12'i

'i.00

'iO

110
7'i

2'i.OO
1.00

12
12
12
12
15'
12

267
122
'i63
167
428
338

468

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

location

Charter
l11ued

San Francisco ........ 1914
3S'1 Park ...........................-'449
352 Van Nuys -·-·····--··HO Van Nuys .............. 1914
Montebello ............ 1914
3 53 Montebello ·-··---4'1
3 S'4 San Pasqual - -··..···-- -4'2 Pasadena ................ 1914
3H Bethlehem ·-··········-·····41! San Francisco ........ 191 S'
Daly City .............. 191 S'
H6 Crocker ........................4f4
San Francisco ........ 191 S'
H7 Golden West ................4ff
3 ~8 Ramona ....•..- ..............457 Monterey Park ...... 191 S'
Los Angeles .......... 1915
H9 Henry S. 0r1Jle............ 4S'S
360 Riverbank - ..·-···---4S'9 Riverbank .............. 1915
361 Mount Oso ········-··--460 Tracy ...................... 1916
San Francisco •......• 1916
362 Argonaut .................--461
San Francisco ........ 1916
363 Paul Revere ................. A62
Morgan Hill .......... 1916
364 Morgan Hill .........•...•.. 463
San Francisco ........ 1916
36S' Alta Vista ....................464
366 Center ...........•••.••.••.-<Kif Fresno .................... 1916
367 Libertas ·-·····-······..···-466 Bakersfield .............. 1917
36S Culver City ·- ·······-···-467 Culver City ............ 1917
369 Rockridge ....................468 Oakland ................ 1917
370 Yorba Linda ................ 469 Yorba Linda .......... 191S
San Francisco •....... 191S
371 Lincoln ···············-····-··470
Stockton ................ 191S
372 Delta ............................471
373 Maui ............................472 Kahului, T. H ......... 191S
Blythe .................... 1919
37 4 Blythe ...................- ••• -.473
San Francisco ........ 1919
37S' Victory ·····--·····--- 474
Los Angeles .......... 1920
376 America ·-····--·- ····-- 47f
377 Coachella ......................476 Coachella ................ 1920
37S Temblor ........................ 477 Fellows .................. 1920
Berkeley ................ 1920
379 Thousand Oaks ........•.•A78
San Jose .................. 1920
3SO Golden Rule ·······-····-A79
3Sl Fellowship ....................480 Oakland ................ 1920
San Francisco ........ 1920
3S2 Mt. Davidson ....... ___ ,481
Los Angeles .......... 1920
3S3 Oarence F. Smith ....... AS2
Bell ........................ 1920
3S4 Bell ................·--····-·-·483
3SS' Albert Pike .................. 484 Los Angeles .......... 1920
Chowchilla ............ 1920
3S6 Chowchilla ·············-·····48f
3S7 Caledonia ......................486 Bakersfield .............. 1920
3SS Vallejo -·····-···-·•··-·-487 Vallejo .................. 1920
3S9 Patterson ...........:......-48S Patterson ................ 1920
South Berkeley ...... 1920
390 East Bay ........................489
391 Corcoran -·······..···--490 Corcoran ................ 1920
Alameda ................ 1920
392 Woodstock ....................491
393 Garvanza ...................... 492 Los Angeles .......... 1920
Atascadero ............ 1920
394 Atascadero .................... 493
Oakland ....•.......•... 1920
39S' Acom ..••••..•.•.-.............. 494
San Francisco --··- 1921
396 Lebanon ·--·-·-····--49f
Oakland .......- ...... 1921
397 Fremont -·-·-·-·····-497
39S Stockton ······-···· ..····--498 Stockton ...... - ......• 1921
1921
Sacramento
· 399 Capital City -·········-····499
San Francisco ........ 1921
400 Roosevelt ...................... fOO
401 Westwood ···-·····--··-· fO 1 Westwood .............. 1921
Richmond .............. 1921
402 Harbor .......................... f02
Richmond .............. 1921
403 Point -·············-·..--.f03
Long Beach ............ 1921
404 Seaside _ ................_._ f04
Santa Ana .............. 1921
40S' Silver Cord - .........-fOS'
Los Angeles ............ 1921
406 Mount Olive ............. _.f06
El Segundo ............ 1921
407 El Segundo .................. S'07
San Joaquin -··--·· 1921
40S Joppa ···-·····-··········-···'08
409 Benjamin Franklin .•...•.. f09
Loa Angelee -·-·-·· 1921

469

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Fe..

7S'
12S'
100
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
7S'
12S'
7S'

Aflll.
Mem·
FeH Dun ben

10.00
10.00

12
12
12

490
SS'2
602

lS'
lS'

S'l4

2S4
12 410
12 S'S6
12 S'04
lS' 672
lS' 14S
so 6.00 12 310
so 10.00 lS 430
100 10.00 12 613
1.00 12 163
S'O
7S' 10.00 1 S' 26S
12 S'43
so
lS' 632
100
lS' 3S'S
100
12S' 10.00 lS' 49S'
12 lS'S
S'O
100 10.00 lS' 349
12 492
so
12 239
SS'
S'.00 12 142
7S'
100 2S'.OO lS 292
12 491
7S'
12 20S'
7S'
lS' lH
S'O
S'.00 lS' 509
7'1
12 629
7S'
1.00 12 333
7S'
100 10.00 lS 406
lf 370
7S'
12 662
100
lS' 2S'9
100
S'.00 12 169
100
12 no
100
7S' 10.00 12 393
2.00 12 122
S'O
7S' 10.00 12 393
12 126
7S'
1.00 12 41S
7S'
12 3 lS'
7S'
12 126
7S'
so 10.00 lS' 621
100 10.00 lS 399
100 10.00 16 S'26
12 191
so
. 7S' 10.00 12 S'30
S'.00 12 2H
7S'
S'O 10.00 12 27S
12 S'7S'
7S'
12 290
7S'
12 S'02
100
1.00 12 476
7S'
12S' 2S'.00 12 99S
12 361
SS'
SS'
S'.00 12
S'O
1S' 364
100
10.00
10.00

lodge

No.

410 Cupertino ...................... no
411 Sunnyvale _ .........- .... fll
412 Palms --- ··-··..·---'12
413 Cahuenga - -····- - ··-'13
414 Argonne .....·-·-····--'14
41S' Vermont Square .......... US'
416 Taft ·············-···-···-··-'16
417 Mount Vernon ............717
41S La Jolla ...........................718
419 Euclid .......- ........ ___ n9
420 Ionic ......... _._............ f20
421 Piedmont .... _ .........- ••• f21
422 Sunrise .•.••. - .............-'22
423 Bellflower ...................... '23
424 Catalina Island .........•.•'24
42S' George Washington •.•• S'2S'
426 Bay City ........................ '26
427 Covenant ......._. ___ f27
42S Beverly Hills .......... _ _ f28
429 Loyalty _ ....................... '29
430 Sun Garden .................. '30
431 Alexandria ....................'31
432 Smyrna ·············-·········'32
433 Azure ............................ 733
434 Forest Hill _........._ _ 734
43S' Alexander Hamilton .... S'3S'
436 Seal Rock ...................... 536
437 Utopia ·-····-·-·······--'37
43S Ascot ·······-···-·····-··~-.'38
439 Belvedere ...................... '39
440 Queen Beach ................ '40
441 Henry Morse Stephens Hl
442 North Hollywood ..._... S'42
443 Signal ..........- ..............f43
444 Glendale ...................._,.._.
44S' Jonathan ...................... Hf
446 San Gabriel ................. f46
447 Arcadia -·.. ·-··-·---f47
44S Triangle ........_ ............. '48
449 Justice · - · - - -..··-'49
4S'O Seaport ........- ···········-"O
4S'l Lakeshore
4S'2 Semper Virens •..•......••••,,.2
4S'3 Educator ...................... ,,.4
4S'4 White Pine ·-·········-···'"
451 Fairfax .....................-H6
4S'6 Hermosa ··-·-·---·-"7
457 Point Firmin
4S'S Craftsmen ....................ff9
4S'9 Plymouth ...................... ,60
460 East San Diego .......•.•.• f61
461 Pyramid ................ ·-·~··f62
462 South Park .................. f63
463 Foothill -···-···········-·f64
464 West Adams ................ f6S'
46S' James A Garfield .....••. f66
466 Searchlight -········-··-·f67
467 Park Boulevard ...... _., .• f68
46S Chateau Thierry .......... f69

-················-·'n

·--·--·-"8

location

Charter
Issued

Cupertino .............. 1921
Sunnyvale ·-········ .. 1921
Palms - ·····....·······-·· 1921
Hollywood .............. 1921
San Francisco ······- 1922
Los Angeles .... ~ ..... 1922
Taft ........................ 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
La Jolla .................. 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Piedmont ................ 1922
Los Angeles .........• 1922
Bellflower .............. 1922
Avalon .................. 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
1922
Los Angeles
Beverly Hills .......... 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Fresno .................... 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Ceres ...................... 1922
Fullerton ................ 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles _ ....... 1922
San Francisco' •....... 1922
1922
Los Angeles
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Monterey Park .:.... 1922
Long Beach ............ 1923
Berkeley ····-·····.. ·· 1923
North Hollywood .. 1923
Long Beach ............ 1923
Glendale ······-·····.. 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
San Gabriel ...........• 1923
Arcadia .................. 1923
Venice .................... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Oakland •............... 1923
Eureka .................... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Weed .................... 1923
San Anselmo-·-· .. ·· 1923
Hermosa Beach ...... 1923
San Pedro .............. 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Oakland ......~ ......... 1923
East San Diego ...... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Long Beach •........... 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Oakland ................ 1923

FH1

AfRI.
M•m·
FeH DuH ben

7S'
S'.00
7S'
12S'
S'.00
100
S'.00
100
7S'
S'O
SO 10.00
lOS'
100
l 7S' 2S'.OO
S'.00
SO
100
12 S'
100
100 10.00
100
100
12S' 10.00
12S'
SO
S'.00
7S'
70
7S'
80 10.00
S'.00
100
100 10.00
100
100
7S'
SO
S'.00
7S'
12S' . S'.00
100
100
S'.00
100
12S'
100
7S'
100 10.00
100 2S'.OO
S'.00
100
S'O
S' .00
SO
2.00
S'S'
100
100
SO
100
S'.00
7S'
7S'
90 10.00
100
S'.00
SO
100
100 · 30.00
SO
100
100 10.00

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
lS
12
1 S'
1S'

17S
323
4S'l

S'76
3S6
S'37
320

222
314

398
900
275
346
441
144
4Sl
3S7
32S
Hl
499
S'47
161
137
2S'S'
196

1 S'
13
12
1 S'
12
1 S'
12
12
12
12
1S'
12
12
1 S'
1S' ·2ss
12 196
12 70S
12 357
12 214
12 190
12 347
lS' SlS'
12 S'lS
12 7S'S
lS' 204
12 476
12 442
1 S' 27S'
IS' 3Sl
lS 234
lS 272
12 2SS
1S' 391
12 102
12 401
12 340
12 373
12 43S
lS' 391
12 7S'3
12 306
12 422
12 S3S
1 S' 326
1 S' 237
12 4S4
1 S' 424
16 359

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod9e

No.

469 Military Service •........•.• '70
470 Francis K. Shattuck ••.. _'71
471 James Madison -···-·······'172
472 Hillcrest -················-····'73
473 S. W. Hackett -····-···-'74
474 Fort Crook ·····--····-····'J7'J
475 El Cajon Valley ............ 'J76
476 Sunnyside ....................577
477 Progressive •...............•• 'J78
47S Warren G. Harding...... 'J79
479 Santa Maria ......••.......•.. 'JSO
4SO Security ..•.•.•...•..•....••••••f81
4Sl Rialto -···········-···-·····-'J82
4S2 Wasco .......................... 'J83
4S3 Harding ........................ 5S4
4S4 Manchester ·-····-·········'J8'J
4S5 Garden Grove •.•.....••.••• 'J86
4S6 Valley Forge ................ 'J87
4S7 El Sereno ······-·········-···'J88
4SS Kauai ............................'J89
4S9 Compass ·················--·'J90
490 Escalon ...................--.791
491 Tujunga ........................ 'J92
492 All States ·······-······-·····'J93
493 Service ·············-·-········'J94
494 Alexander Graham Bell 595
495 Guardian ...................... 596
496 Pearl Harbor ................ 'J98
497 Carmelita ········--·-·····-'99
49S Lynwood ......................600
499 Grizzly ·······-···············-601
500 Melrose ·······-···············602
501 Dimond ........................603
502 Jubilee ..., ......................604
503 Glassell Park ................607
504 Sojourner •......••.............607
505 Granada ...............- ...•••.608
506 Provident •....•••.•..•.........609
507 Elmhurst •······-···-·-·610
50S Canoga ·········--······----611
509 Temple City ..................612
HO Three Pillars ................613
n 1 Larchmont ··-·--····-·····614
~12 Hemet ·····-······-···-··-615
513 R. E. Dolley ·······-·········616
514 Big Bear ........................617
n 5 Southland ·····-··········-···618
516 Neptune ........................619
H 7 Point Loma ·-···-·····-··620
HS The Gardena ·······-·······621
519 Atwater ············-·········62.2
520 Menorah •..•...............•..623
521 Fortitude ..•.....•...••..••••,.624522 Angeles Mesa ................62'J
523 Chula Vista .......•....••....626
724 Lamanda Park ·-···········627
725 Truth .......................- •..628
526 Fairview ........................629
727 Ingleside ................_ ...630

Location

Charter
luued

San Francisco ........ 1923
Berkeley .•••............ 1923
Loa Angeles .......... 1923
Berkeley .....•.......... 1923
San Diego .............. 1923
Fall River Mills...... 1923
El Cajon ................ 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Los Angeles •......... 1923
North Sacramento.. 1924
Ramona ·············-··· 1924
Bakersfield •••..........• 1924
Rialto .................... 1924
Wasco .................... 1924
Los Angeles •......... 1924
Los Angeles
1924
Garden Grove ........ 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
1924
Los Angeles
Lihue, T. H .••........ 1924
Pomona .................. 1924
Escalon .............•.... 1924
Tujunga ................ 1924
Long Beach ............ 1924
Long Beach ............ 1924
Los Angeles .........• 1924
South Gate
1924
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1924
Pasadena ................ 1924
Lynwood .......•........ 1925
Portola •................. 1925
Los Angeles .......... 1925
Oakland ......•......... 1925
Santa Ana .............. 1925
Los Angeles .......... 192 5
Monrovia ................ 1925
Alhambra .............. 1925
Sacramento ............ 192 5
Oakland ................ 1925
Canoga Park .......... 1925
Temple City ............ 1925
Sacramento ............ 1925
Los Angeles .......... 192 5
Hemet .............•.....• 1925
Seal Beach
1925
Big Bear Lake .......• 192 5
Los Angeles •......... 1925
Long Beach ••.......... 1925
San Diego .............. 1925
Los Angeles ••........ 1925
Los Angeles .......... 1925
Los Angeles .......... 1925
Oakland ................ 192 5
Los Angeles .............. 192'J
Chula Vista •..........• 192'J
Pasadena .•............•• 1925
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Los Angeles .....•.... 1926
San Francisco ........ 1926

471

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Aflll.

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

Fees

F-

Dues

100
75
75
75

10.00
5.00

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
16
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
16
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
lS

so

75
75
125
75
75

5.00

20.00
15.00

so

100
7'J

so

5.00

75
5.00
125 20.00
75 25.00
100
125
75 10.00
70 • 2.00
'JO
75
100
75
75
5.00
100
150 15.00
75
125
'JO 10.00
75 10.00
100
5.00
7'J
1.00
75
75
75
75 10.00
100 10.00
'JO
1.00
75
75 10.00
100
5.00
'JO
75
75
100
5.00
90
75
5.00
100
75
125
75
5.00
100
7'J
1.00
75
75
1.00
so 3.00
75

Mam·
bert

344
25S
367

so

5Sl
167
311
463
52s
572
113
402
170
305
25S
37S
241
367
439
126
279
140
266
547
763
274

sso

576
336
422
14S
247
292
350
40S
224
774
439
254
254
426
423
407
166
217
163
31S
2S7
5SS
450
374
S44
207
672
472
265
25S
2S3
194

Lod9e

No.

52S Benevolence --····----631
529 Normal Heights •..••••••• 632
530 Poinsettia -·············-···633
531 Victorville ·-····-;..........63 4
532 "Riverside ......................63'J
533 John Marshall •.......••.•..636
534 Palisades ......................637
535 Indian Rock ..................638
536 Composite ....................639
537 Veritas ..........................640
53S James A. Foshay ·-··--·641
539 ta Cumbre ·-···-······-···642
540 Alta Loma ....................643
541 Lomita ........................ _644
542 A. F. E. Irwin ..............645
543 Metropolitan -·····-·······646
544 Hawthorne ·-········-·····647
545 Damascus ·······-····-·······648
546 Florence ·-·········-··-·····649
547 La Brea ........................6'JO
HS Menlo Park ......••.•.•••••..651
549 Crescenta Valley ..•.••••••652
HO Fontana ·-············-·····-6'J3
Hl Jordan ..........................6'J4
H2 Monte Vista ..................6'J'J
H3 Citrol ...............- ...........6'J6
H4 John D. Spreckels ........657
H'J Livingston ····-··············6'JS
H 6 La Habra ......................6'J9
H7 Baldwin Park ...........•...•660
5 5S Malta ............................661
H9 Henry Knox •.......••..•••.662
560 Ojai ..................,...•..•- ..663
561 Kaweah ••..:...................66'J
562 Reseda ··········--·····-···-666
563 Meridian ......................667
564 San Gorgonio ......••.•..••668
565 John P. Jarman ............669
566 Greenleaf ..........•..•...•.•..670
567 San Clemente ..............671
56S Laguna Beach ..........~ .•.672
569 Far West ......................673
570 Los Cerritos ..................674
571 Modesto ........................675
572 Wi1low Glen •..•.......•.••.676
573 Liberal Arts •.•.....••.•......677
574 Altadena -···········-·······678
575 Canby Cross ·············-···679
576 Carmel ·--····-··-··-·····680
577 Dos Palos ......................681
57S Barstow .1......................682
579 Redwood Empire ........ 683
5SO Trona ·-············-···········684
581 San Marino ..................685
5S2 Albany ·······-··········-·····686
5S3 Vista .••...•••.•.............••.•..687
5S4 Oildale ..........................688
5S5 Pohona ........................689
586 San Carlos ...••........•......690

Location

Charter
Issued

Los Angeles
1926
San Diego ......•....... 1926
San Buenaventura .. 1926
Victorville .............. 1926
Riverside ................ 1926
Beverly Hills .......... 1926
Santa Monica ........ 1926
Berkeley ................ 1926
Los Angeles
1926
San Francisco •....... 19 26
Los Angeles
1926
Santa Barbara ......•. 1926
Signal Hill ............ 1926
Torrance ................ 1926
San Pedro .............. 1926
Los Angeles .......... 1926
Hawthorne ............ 1926
San Bernardino ...... 1926
Los Angeles .......... 1927
Los Angeles
1927
Palo Alto ................ 1927
Montrose ................ 1927
Fontana .................. 1927
Los Angeles
1927
Long Beach ............ 1927
Brea ........................ 1927
San Diego ............i. 1927
Livingston ·-·············1927
La Habra ...............• 1927
Baldwin Park ........ 1927
Los Angeles .......... 192S
Los Angeles •......... 192S
Ojai ........................ 192S
Woodlake .............. 192S
Reseda ............•....... 192S
Glendale ................ 192S
Banning .................. 192S
San Jose ................ 192S
Whittier •............... 192S
San Clemente
192S
Laguna Beach ........ 1929
San Francisco
1929
Long Beach ....•....... 1929
Modesto •..•, ..••..••.• 1929
Willow Glen .. :....... 1930
Los Angeles .......... 1930
Altadena ................ 1930
Tulelake ................ 1935
Carmel .................... 1935
Dos Palos .............. 1939
Barstow .................. 1940
Garberville ............ 1940
Trona .................... 1941
South Pasadena ..•. 1944
Albany .................. 1945
Vista ................•.•..... 194'J
Bakersfield
1946
Yosemite Valley .... 1946
San Carlos ..•..•........ 1946

Fees

100
80
75
H
7'J
100
SO
75
125
100
100
75
100
SO
SO
75
100
75
125
100
100
100
75
100
75
'JO
SO
'JO
'JO

Mem·
Aflil.
Faes Does ban

5.00
5.00
10.00
15 .00

5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00

1.00

65

75
125
'JO
'JO
75
100
75
75
100
75
75
75
125
75
75
125
75
'JO
75
100
H
'JO
75
100
75

7'J
100
'JO
100

25.00

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00
5.00

1.00
3.00
10.00
1.00
25.00
10.00

15 277
12 6H
12 637
12 200
12 3S9
12 2S7
12 396
15 213
12 417
15 122
12 243
15 25S
12 3S5
15 264
12 276
12 142
12 426
12 593
12 4SS
15 261
15 247
12 433
12 291
12 3Sl
12 60S
12 1S9
12 641
15 179
12 193
12 1S9
12 20S
15 447
15 123
12 116
12 346
12 516
12 223
12 257
12 577
12
SS
15 193
15 343
15 35S
12 459
12 311
12 324
12 460
12 143
15 lSS
12 124
12 299
12
SS
12 131
15 316
12 203
12 254
15 1S2
12
69
lS 265

472

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Contin ued
No.

luved
Charter

S'87 Indian Wells Valley ....691
S'88 Travelers -··--···-··---692
S'89 Palm Sprinr• ···-····--···693
S'90 San Antonio ---·-694
S'91 Meudell -·- ····-··-·-69f
S'92 Crossroads ······-········-696
S'93 St. Elmo ·······-···-······--69'7
S'94 Wm. D. Stephens ........698
S'9S' Bixby Knolls - ····-···- ···699
S'96 Ponderosa ···········-······· 700
S'97 Santa Ynez Valley••..•.••701
S'98 Rosemead ......................702
S'99 Westchester •.•......•.•.••.•.703
7o.t
600 Orinda
601 El Cerrito .................-.70S'
602 Hunters Point Naval....706
603 Lake Tahoe _ _ _ _707
604 Seafaring -···--·--·--708
60S' Lorenzo -···--·-- ···-·· 709
S06 Anacapa ···················- ···710
607 Rim of the World ..........711
608 Los Altos ·············-·······712
609 Castro Valley ···········-···713
610 Blue Lakes -·- ................ 714
611 Magnolia Park ......•.•...71S'
612 Belmont Shore ..............716
613 Wayfarer .......: ...........•..717
614 San Lorenzo Valley.-...718
6 lS' Estero ·······················-··· 719
616 Mineral King •.........•.-.720
617 Home ·······-···················721
618 George E. Tutt..........•.•• 722
619 Acalanes .......................• 723
620 San Ramon Valley..•..••. 724
621 Saint John's •..•.•,...•.•..... 72S'
622 Yucaipa ........................ 726
623 Verdugo Hills .............. 727
624 Lakewood ...................... 728

China Lake •........... 1946
1947
Sacramento
Palm Springs •.•....• 1947
Bell ···-··········-······· 1947
Bakersfield ••.•.•......•• 1948
San Diego ........•..... 1948
Oakland ........•......... 1948
Los Angeles......-..... 1948
Long Beach ............ 1949
Fresno .................... 1949
Los Olivos ·····-······· 1949
Rosemead .............. 1949
Loa Angeles ••..••.... l 9S'O
Orinda -···········-··· 19S'O
El Cerrito ····-········ 19S'O
San Francisco ........ 19S'O
Bijou ···-················· 19S'O
Costa Mesa ...•..•..... 19 S'O
Hayward -·-·---··· 19S'O
Oxnard .........•........ 19S'O
Lake Arrowhead .... 19S'O
Palo Alto ···-········· 19 S'1
San Leandro ....•..... 19S'l
San Bruno .............. 19S'l
Burbank .•.............. 19S'l
Seal Beach ..............•.19S'2
Whittier •...•......•........•19f2
19S'3
Boulder Creek
Cayucos ·········- ······· 19S'3
Visalia ...................• 19S'3
North Hollywood .. 19S'3
Campbell ···-··········· 19S'3
Lafayette •..............• 19S'3
Danville ····-············ 19S'3
Walnut Creek ···-··· 19S'3
Yucaipa ···-············· 19S'3
Glendale ................ 19 S'3
Long Beach ···-······· l 9S'3

Locetlon
Locl9e

Fee1

100
7S'
100
100
100
80

10.00
12S'
7S' 10.00
80
LOO
7S'
7S'
79
7S'
7S'
100
1.00
7S' 10.00
1.00
7S'
7S'
7S' 2.S'.00
7S'
S'.00
100
S'.00
7S'
100
S'.00
100 10.00
12S'
100

100

80
S'O
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
7S'
7S'
7S'
12S'
110

.....

Mem.
Atlll.
F- D-

S'.00
10.00
S'.00

1.00

12
12
IS'
12
12
12
1 S'
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
IS'
lS'
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
lS'

S'.00

12
12

lS'.00

1S'
1S'
1S'

2S'.OO

12
16
1S'

298
171
1S'4

160
131
230
91
88
218
201
74
9S'
217
101
107
149
47
17S'
143
103
SS'
79
107
89
103
109
71

49
62
61
90
S'4
S'S'
S'2
S'2
S'O
36

49

Total Membership, July 31, 19S'3 .•..... - ...•.............-213,.
No. Calif. Research ............ U.D.
So. Calif. Research .............. U.D.

San Francisco ........ 19S'2
Los Angeles .......... 19S'2

473

12
12

70
3S'

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
. Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Naahville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May ~. 1853. Charter never
issued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John'sbYreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
'
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Char,ter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, u
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never
issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
4
4
6
7

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

82
83

M.o~ntain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
RISmg Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No • 16 I Sept• 2>

85

Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as.St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No
·
158, Nov., 1882.
Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No 13 Oct.

85
86
88
88

1919.

'
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No • 37• Dec• 8,
Consolidated
96 Howard.
.
1924.
•

13, 1910.

97

Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No 50 July 19

98
99

Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
La ~3~nge, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,

100

CamPo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No 13
'
.
Oct. 13, 1910.
Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
Mount Je~erson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
Olgos. Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,

102
105
107
108
109
114

1926.

•

'

'

'

1

Dibbl~, Ome~a, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.

Mi t~~n, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11.

9

Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85 as
'
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, ~857. Ch.arter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 C~16~' Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,

115

121
125
130
133
137
138
142
148

Ionic, Iowa Hill, 185~. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
Progress, San FrancISco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct 14 1870
Unity, .San Bernard.ino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, '1863. ·
Yosemite, Coulterv~lle, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
kno~ as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
Oro Fmo, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862
Violet, Spanish.Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct'. 16, i879.
Colusa, Co~usa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240 as Colusa No.
'
240, April 1, 1882.
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec 2,
0

1865.

.

475

158

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, J~ 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.

159
160

Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.

151
152
153
154
155
157

15, 1908.
1898.

Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
.
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
issued.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa ?10.
240, April 1, 1882.

162

476

477

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Co ntinued
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
1911.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. ·341, Oct. 16,
1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
.
372 Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manilai P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 912.
398 Fowler Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kenneth, Kenneth, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
612 Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.
616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
1937.

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18. A. L. 5850
1850

1856

Jonathen D. Smen&on ..G. M.
C.llfornla No, I
lorn Jan. I 1100
Died Feb. (4, 18M
John A. Tutt..._____ o. G. M.
Caleb Fenner._....- ..S. G. W.
S111hel Woods.______ J. G. W.
Levi Stowel'---·-···-···-·· ·G. T.
John H. Glhon ..•...·-···-··6· S.

1851
John A.' Tuft.____.........G. M.
Teheme No.I
lorn Feb. 4L 1111
Died t.f1r IY, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam.......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis................s. 6.
Bani. S. Olds...•____J, G. W.
TownHnd A. Thomas... _.G. T.
Levi Stowell..__............6. S.

w.

1852
Beniamln D. Hyam........G. M.
llenlcla No.I
lorn March I 111 a
Died Julr 12, ~193
Chas. M. Radcliff...... D. G. M.
Addison Mertln ...........- ...6.T.
J, R. McConnelL._...J. 6. W.
Addison Martin ................&. T.
Levi Stowell.....-······-·····6. S.

1853
Charlas M. Radcllff......6. M.
Tuolumne No, I
lom Feb. I. 1111
Died O.C.11, 1119
T. A. Thomas....._....... D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall._.....S. G. W.
Richard F. Knoft____J. G. W.
Addison Martin. _______G. T.
Levi Stowel'---·-·····.......6. S.

1854
William H. Howard ......G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Born Au9. 29, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 1166
Nath. 6. Curtis........ D. 6. M.
Rector E. Cole........_$. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ...._...J. G. W.
Addison Martin_,___ .6. T.
Levl Stowell. ___ .. _..._..&. S.

1855
Wiiiiam H. Howard ......6. M.
T. A. Thom111..............D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ......S. G. W.
Sam. A. Marritt..__ ..J. G. W.
Addison Martin_···-··-··6· T.
Levi Stowell _ _ _ _ S.

e.

1863

William H. Howard ......6. M.
William C. Belcher........6. M.
John A. Raymond .... D. G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...•.. D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon..--........S. G. W.
Peter W. Randle ......J. G. W. Louis Cohn·--·--···S. G. W.
Wm. A. Devi-_J, G. W.
Addison Martin ....... ___6. T. James
laidley______.6, T.
Alex G. AbelL.-.•.....- .•6. S.
Alex G. Aball...-····-·-··6. S.

1857

Nathaniel G. Curtis......6. M.
W111hlnQton No. 20
Born Feb. •.1. 1825
Died Julr l.t, 1897
Charles Manh .....- .... 0. G. M.
Aaron D. Parl...._____s. G. W.
John B. Pope..·-··-·-·_J· G. W.
Addison Martin ·--·········6• T.
Alex 6. Abell ____6. S.

. 1858
Nathaniel G. Curti1......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard .. _.. D. G. M.
Wm. McCormick.......S. G. W.
Jas. W. Bicknell........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ~··-·-·6• T.
Alex 6. Abell·-·-··········6. S.

1859

Nathaniel G. Curtia._. __ G, M.
P. W. Shepheard_.o. G. M.
Ebenezar Lana..- .....S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley.-.....J. G. W.
Addison Martin _ .......6. T.
Alex G. Abell._________ 6. S.

1860
Nathaniel 6. Curti1......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard...... D. G. ~·
Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W.
Alvinza Hayward.._..J. 6. W.
Addison Martin ___....6. T.
Alex 6. Abell._______ c;, S.

1861
James L Engllsh............ G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
lorn June !s_ 1813
Died May n, 1889
Wm. C. Belchar........ D. G. M.
John W. Harvllla......S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
James Laidley....•.- ........6. T.
Alex G. Abell..._._ ..........G. S.

1862

1864
William C. Balcher........ G. M.
Gil. B. Claibome...... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Davias...... __ G. W.
Isaac S. Titus_,____J, G. W.
James laidlay....-·-·---··6• T.
Alex G. AbelL·-·-·-··-6. S.

s.

1865
Gilbert B. Cleibom........G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wrr., A. Daviea.......... D. G. M.
Isaac S. Titua........- ...S. 6. W.
Hanry H. Hartley......J. G. W.
James Laidley_.______ 6. T.
Alex G. AbelL.._...- ..G. S.

1866
Gilbert B. Claiborne..•...G. M.
Henry H. Hartley-.... D. 6. M.
Wm. H. Peterson.._..$. G. W.
Thomas Beck.._____J. 6. W.
Jamas laidley..~-~··6• T.
Alax G. AbelL.........- ...6. S.

1867
William A. Davin..........&. M.
Columbia No. 21
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916
Henry H. Hartlay.... D. 6. M.
Thomas Beck...............S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt......J. G. W.
James A. Laidley._ _6. T.
Alax G. AbalL ............-6. S.

1868

William C. Belchar........ G. M. Charles Manh ................6. M.
Nevada No. 13
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 6 1821i
lorn Dec. 12, 1820
Died Aprll 2i, 1176
Died Sept. I, ll'lli
611. B. Claiborna...... D. &. M. Leonidas E. Pratt...... D. 6. M.
John W. Harvllla......S. G. W. Theo. G. CockrllL...S. G. W.
John B. Hewson........J. 'G . W. Fredk. F. Ban1..........J. G. W.
James laidley....·--·--··6. T. Jamas Laldley.......- ...-.6. T.
Alax G. Abell____.. ~. S. Alax G. Ab.tl...-....--..6. S.

1876

1869

1883

Jonathan D. Hlnes ...- ..G. M.
Leonidas E. Prett..........G. M. John M. Brown•-·-··-- ·&. M.
San Buanaventura No. 214
Chas. L. Wiggin _ D. G. M.
Mountain Shad• No. 18
Born Jan. I, 1825
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Wm. S. Wells .....-.-·S. G. W.
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Solon W. Crelgue....J. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin........ D. G. M.
Isaac S. Titu1........- .... D. G. M.
John S. Werd .....- .....S. G. W. James L.aidl•Y····-·····-····G. T. Edm. C. Atkinson ..._.S. G. W.
Alex G. Abell..._ ............G. S. Hiram N. Rucker._ ...J. G. W.
Richard Del•.- ·-········J• G. W.
Moses Heller··-···-- -····&• T•
.iames L.aldley..- ·····--··--6• T.
1877
Alex G. AbelL---···- ··-··-6• S.
AIH G. AbelL........•...._.G. S.
John M. Browne............&. M.
Ches. L Wiggin _ •.. D. G. M.
1870
1884
Leonrdes E. Pratt..- ........6. M. Wm. W. Traylor........S. G. W.
Jonathan
D.
Hines ........G. M.
Isaac S. Titu1............D. G. M. Wm. H. Crene..........J. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnln
_____ G. M.
Ches. L. Wlggln ........S. G. W. Moses Heller ______ 6. T.
Benj. H. Freemen ......J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.....- .•.........G. S. Edm. C. Atkinson .._.S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker...- .J. G. W.
James L.aidl•Y--···-·- ····G. T.
Moses Heller - - - - -·&. T.
1878
AIH G. AuelL- -6.
Alex G. AbelL- ·- ·- ·-·-G• S.
John M. Brown•.- ···-··&. M.
1871
Wm. W. Treylor._ •.. D. G. M.
Leonides E. Prett..- ......G. M. Wm. H. Crene..........S. G. W.
1885
Ches. L. Wiggln........ D. G . M. Robt. C. Broder........J. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnln .......- ....6. M.
Ben. H. Frea~en ......S. G.
Moses Heller _ __._ __ ..&. T.
Trinity No. 'D
Geo. C. Perkins........J. G. • Alex G. Abell........•- .......G. S.
Born Oct. 7, Um
Died Nov. 24, 1910
James Leidl•Y·········-··- --6• T.
Edm. C. Atklnson ..- .. D. G. M.
Alex G. AbelL ....- ..--G. S.
1879
Hiram N. Rucker......S. G. W;
William W. Traylor........G. M. Henry H. Knapp .. _..J . G. W.
1872
Callfornla
No.
I
Leonidas E. Prett..........G. M.
Nathan W Spaulding ___G, T.
Bom March 17, 1822
Benj. H. Freaman ...... D. G. M.
Alex G. Abell ..................&. S.
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Geo. C. Perkins.....-.S· G. W. Samuel C. Denson .... D. G. M.
John M. Browne...--J. G. W. Clay W. Taylor____.S. G. W.
1886
James LAidl•Y·--···-·--···G• T. John Q. Ad11m1....- ..J. G. W.
Alell G. Abell ......----·-G· S. Moses Heller 6. T. Edmund C. Atkinson .._G. M.
Sacramento No. 41
Alex G. Abell.---··- -··.6• S.
Born Nov. 17 IB37
1873
Died March :&i, ltll
Isaac S. Titus.... :...........G. M.
1880
Hiram N. Rucker.._.. D. G. M.
Sen Joaquin No. 19
Samuel C. Denson ....- ..G. M. Morris M. &tea ...- ...S. G. W.
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Died Aprll 22, 1892
~nlos Nt. ~
Alvah R. Conklin.___J. G. W.
1839
Geo. C. Perkins........ D. G. M.
oi~~ J~fy.26,°1917
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W. Clay W. Taylor........ D. G. M. Alex G. Abell .....•............&. S.
Che5. E. Mitchell......J. G. W.
James Laidley_______6. T. John Q. Adams ........S. G. W. ,
O. W. HollenbecL.J. G. W.
1887
Alex G. AbelL------6· S. Moses Heller __ __ &. T. Hiram N. Rucker ___..•&. M.
Alex G. Abell..__ _____&. S.
La &range No."
1874
Born Sept. 6J 1844
George C. Perkins _____ &. M.
Died Dae. I~, 1'°5
1881
Orovlll• No. 103
Morris
M. &tee..- .. D. G. M.
Bom AllCJ. 23, 1839
Clay W. Teylor..............G. M.
Died Fab. 26, 1923
Alveh R. Conklin.. _.S. G. W
We1tern Star No. 2
John M. Browne._ _..D. G. M.
Wm.
Joi.nston
_____ ..J. G. W.
Born Sept. I o 1844
Died May I, 1897
Wm. B. Perker......- ..S. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....&. T.
Wiley J. Tinnln..........J. G. W. John Q. Adams ........ D. G. M. Alex G. AbelL._ ...•.......6. S.
James l..aldley.--·--·6• T. Jonathan D. Hines....S. G. W.
Alex G. Abell_ .....,.-·--···6. S. Thos. J. Bowerl---·····J• G. W.
1888
Moses Heller _
_ &. T.
1875
Alex G. Abell..................6. S. Morris M. &tH........•...6. M.
Callfornla No. I
John M. Browne............&. M.
Born Nov. 23, 1834
1882
Naval No. 87
Died Od. 7, IG
Born May 10, 1831
Clay W. Taylor.·-······-··&. M.
Alvah
R. Conklln ..- .. D. G. M.
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Ches. L Wiggln ......D. G. M. Jonathan D. Hines .... D. G. M. William Johnston .. _..S. 6. W.
Edm.
C.
Atkinson
......
$.
G.
W
.
Wiley J. Tlnnin ..........S. G. W.
Marc. D. BorucL_•..J. G. W.
Hinds---····-·J G. W.
Jacob H. Neff._......J. G. W. George
Moses Heller _ _&. T. Nathan W Spaulding .- -6• T.
Jemo• L.aidley- - - -6. T.
Ales 6. Abell ...- - ··-6· S.
Alu G. Abell.- - ---6· S. Alex 6. Abell----- ---6• S.

o.

s.

'!ft·

479

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

478

1901

1889

1895

Morris M. &tee__......&. M.
William Johnston _ D. G. M.
Ch••· R. Grltmen ..--S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme____J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex 6. AbelL•. - ........... 6. S.

Edward M. Preston .. _....6. M.
Nevada No. 13
Born May 4, 1841
Died Aprll 24, 1903
Wm. T. Luces... _....... D. G. M.
Thomes Flint______ ___ G. W.
F. M. Angellotti........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............ G. T.
George Johnson ···-·-·-·G• S.

1890

s.

1896
Alvah R. Conklin............G. M.
Inyo No. 221
William T. Luces............ 6. M.
lorn 1835
Guadalupe No. 237
Died Oct. I, 1197
Born March II, llliO
Died March 21, 1931
William Johnston ...... D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman ....S. G. W. Thomes Flint.............. D. G. M.
Henry S. Orm•- ······J. G. W. F. M. AngellottL..__ G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ___&. T. Chas. L Petton..._...J. G. W.
6eorge Johnson ·----6• S. Edward Colemen............G. T.
George Johnson - · -··6• S.

s.

1891

1897

Wllllem Johnston ..........G. M. Thomes Flint ________ G, M.
Franklin No. 143
Taxea No. 46
Born June 2, I825
Born May 19 1858
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Died Nov. IS, 1936
Chas R. Grltmen ...... D. G. M. F. M. Angellotti........ D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ___ G. W. Chas L. Petton ..........S. G. W.
Jes. B. Stevens..........J. G. W. Jes. A. Foshey..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T. Edward Colemen ............ G. T.
6eorge Johnson _____ _6. S. George Johnson ________ 6, S.

s.

William S. Wells _____.6. M.
Martina No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jen. 2J, 1919
O. S. Henderson .. _..D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting _.$, G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter ___ J, G. W.
Edward Coleman... ____ G, T.
George Johnson ___.6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds......_.•..G. L

1902
Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
Mornin9 Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died Jun• 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter... _.S. G. W.
Motley H. Flint._ .."J. G. W.
Edward Colemen.....- - ...G. T.
George Johnson _ _ ._&, S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............G. L

1903
Charles W. Nutting......6. M.
Evening Star No. 186
Born Oct. 3 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... D. G. M.
Motely H. Flint...- ...S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hart............J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............6. T.
George Johnson - ·-·······6• S.
Wm. H. Edwerds ........- ..6. L

1892

1898

1904

Cherlec R. Gritman _ .&. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dec. 10, 18J8
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme..!_•.. D. 6. M.
Jes. B. Stevens..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ___ &. T.
George Johnson ···-·-···6. S.

Frank M. Angellotti... ...G. M.
Merln No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932
Ches. L. Patton .. _.... D. G. M.
Jes. A. Foshey..........S. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells.._______J, G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ···-·······G. S.

George W. Hunter......6. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint........ D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hert............S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ···-···J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T.
George Johnson ···-······6• S.
Wm. H. Edwerds .......•....6. L

1899

1893
Henry S. Orme.........•....&. M.
So. C.llfomla No. 271
Born March 211 1837
Died Nov. 29, \912
Jes. B. Stevens..--.... D. 6 . M.
Edw. M. Preston... _ .S. G. W.
Wm. T. Luces.·-- ·····J• 6. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T.
George Johnson . _•...:6. S.

1894
James B. Stevens .......... G. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn March 'D; 1141
Died Dae. 6, I It

Edw. M. Preston ........ D. G. M.
Thomes Fllnt.·-······-··J• G. W.
Wm. T. LuceL___ __ G. W.
Edward Colemen ..- --··G• T.
6eorge Johnson _ _&. S.

s.

Charles L Petton ..........G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born 1865
Died April II, 1923
Jas. A. Foshay..........D. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells ____ ....S. G. W .
O. S. Hendenon ___ .J. G. W.
Edward Colemen..·--·····G· T.
Georg• Johnson --··-····6· S.

1900
James A. Foshay..·-·-····G• M.
So. California No. 278
Born Nov. 2J, IB!i6
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells ............ D. G. M.
0. ~. Henderson .-..S. G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting ....J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ________G. T.
George Johnson _ ___G. S.
Wm. H. Edw1rd1.·- ·- ·-6• L

1905
Motley H. Flint..............6. M.
East Gata No. 290
Born Feb, 19, 18'1
Died July 14, 19JO
Edward H. Hert........ D. G. M.
Geo. M. Perlne.._....S. G. W.
Reuben H. Lloyd .. _..J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ..._____ G. T.
George Johnson ····-······6· S.
Wm. H. Edwerds ..- ........6. L

1906

Edward H. Hert··-···-&. M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born 1851
.
Died Sept. 26, 1917
•
Geo. M. Perine.._.D. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd .._..S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler _____.J. 6. W.
Edward Colemen...______ G. T.
George Johnson __ ___6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards_ __ &, L

' GRANO LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

180
Geor ge M. Perine........&. M.
Pacific No, I»
lorn 1162
Died Oct. 6, Im
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
O.ca r Lawler............S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce........J. 6. W.
Edward Cole man ............G. T.
Geor ge Johnson -·-·- -6• S.
Thomas J. Baker____ .....&. L

\825

1919

1913

1907

John D. Murphey .......... G. M.
Alta No. 333
Born July 7, 1863
Died Sept. 15, 1946
lenj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M.
Alb. G. Bum att........S. &. W.
F. V. Keesllng ............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...._ ... G. T.
John Whlc her.......- ........6. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............6. L

r
:.·.
... ,;. .......,___s, w.
w.

1920

1928

19H
Geor ge F. Rodden ........ &. M.
1908
Marin No. 191
....&. M.
........
oe
M.
Bleds
6.
F.
..
lenj.
r
Lawle
r
Osca
Born Dec.24, 1867
San Bernardino No. 348
East &ate No. 290
Died March 8, 1934
Bom Feb. 8, 1874
lom Aprll 2, 1175
E. Burke............D. 6. M.
Sam.
1938
JO,
Oct.
Died
M.
G.
D.
........
e
Pierc
W. Frank
Burnett........ D. G. M. Wm. A. Sherman ......S. G. W.
G.
Alb.
W.
G.
$.
..
__
er
Well
R.
Dana
Arthu r S. Crlte s....._J. 6. W.
K-li ng._........ G.
A. J. Monr oe..__..J. 6. W. F.
ey.... _ ...J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer..........&. T.
Harv
Rh.
W.
T.
G.
....
........
Edward Cole man
Parker Filmer..........&. T. John Whic har__ ............6. S.
John Whlc har..................6. S. Wm. Whic her............. _ ..6, S. Thomas J, Baker..............&. L
John
I..
Thomas J. Baker.........- ..G·
Thomas J. Beker.............. &. I..

s.

v.

1909

w.

1915

W. Frank Pierce............G. M.
Albe rt G. Burnett.......... &. W,
Oakland No. 118
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Born Aprll 9, 1856
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Died Au9. 15, 1923
M.
6.
D.
....
_
er
Dana R. Well
............ D. G. M.
A. J. Monr oe___ _.$, 6. W. F. V. Keesling
ey ......S. G. W.
Harv
Rh.
Wm.
W.
6.
J,
_
Wm. P. Fiimer _
....J. G. W.
ster
Wab
ord
Bradf
T.
&.
Edward Cole man. _,,_..
..........&. T.
r
Filme
r
Parke
Wtn.
John Whl cher -........- ..6· S.
Whic her.._ .............6. S.
Thomas J. Bal.er_........... G. L John as J. Baker..............&. L
Thom

1910

1916

Dana R. Well ar..............G. M. Francis V. Keesling ........ &. M.
So. C.llfomla No. 211
Callfornla No. I
lorn March 2~J174
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Died Jan. t, ,,.,
ey...... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe............ D. G. M. Wm. Rh. Hervster.... S. G. W.
Web
ford
W.
Brad
G.
S,
..
_
Wm. P. Ftlmer.....
J. D. Murphey ______J. 6, W. Chas . A. Ada ms.- ...J. G. W.
Filmer.....-&. T.
Edward Cole man.......-6. T. Wm. Parker
....___ 6, S.
John Whlc her____ ___E;, S. John Whl cher ._
Baker.........._.6, L
Thomas J. Baker..............6. L Thomas J.

1917

1911

1921

Samuel E. Burle............&. M.
Sunset No. 312
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Wm. A. Sharman ...... D. 6. M.
Arthu r S. Crlte s..~ ....S. 6. W.
David J. Raese.._ .....J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........&. T.
John Whlc her_ _ _ _c;, S.
Thomas J, Baker.... _ ......&. L

6.

Pi ..... .__.J, 6.

Wi

J :"' •rhr Fllm er.-.....6. T.
Th n Whlc her..................G. S.
oma1 J. laker.......- .....6. L

&eoMtt•,.':-_ Jo1111............ 6. M.
•d-N o.D
lorn M•r 11, 1m
:::11 H. Flscher........D. 6. M.
•· A. Hute ff..........s. G. w.
C • M. Woll tnbar 9 ....J. G. W.
Parker Fiimer..........&. T.
11 Whlc har..- ...--...6. s.
omas J. Baker.........._G, L.

s.

1923

1931

1937

Robt. kl. Gayl ord..........6. M.
0 • l•nd No. I•
Born Nov, 24, 1176
Died Au9. 4, 1953
Frank W. Mixter...... D. 6. M.
Jame s 8. 61.+.•_........S. &.
Wm. A. Sitton..........J. &.
Perle r Filmer.......... &. T.
Tho n Whl char -.............6.
omas J. Baker........_ ... &, L

Jame s T. 1Ta1er_ _... 6 , M.
Humboldt No. 79
l!>rn Au9. 21, 18'1
Died June 26, 1953
D ,... M.
Leon O. Whit s.II......
.....
S ,.. W
W1·11·•am H
'Was
•
BO ...... . ..,, '
•
Will iam • gdan ....J. 6. W.
,.. T
Wm. Parker Filmer
·--··· ""'·
John Whlc har
6 • 5•·
Leslla E. woo ...- .........6. L

1932

1938

............&. M.
Fra~ W.~fxter
4

Leon 0. Whlb ell
6 M
Oran9e &rove ..;;:·m · •
lorn July 10, 1876
W!ll!"m H. Wast a .... D. 6. M
W11l1am B. Ogde n ....S. &.
Lloyd E. Wll son- -J 6
Wm. Parle r Fiimer •
John Wh lcha r._
Leslle E. Woo d ....
6• L

w.
w.

ff:'•

s.

1127

.... eter ..,.,42
lorn Dec. JO, 1m
Died May 22; IM7
Jame s B. 61st............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton..........S. G.
R. V. Whlt ing ............J. «:;, W.
Parker Filmer..........G. T.
o n Whlc har....... ~ .........6, s.
Thomas J. Baker......... _&, L

WilWllH. Fischer..............&. M.
l1hlre No. 445
lom Sept. II, 1m
Died Oct. 4, 1953
&u1. A. Hutaff... ....... D. &. M.
C. M. Woll enbe rg ....S. &. W.
J. S. RON.-.......____J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmar.......... 6. T.
fthn Whlc her..................6. S.
omas J, laler .-...........6. L.

Jema s B. Gist................&. M'
Pento1lphe No. 202
8or11 Au9, I, 18'1
R. V. Whlt lng............ D. &. M.
Earl Warr an ..............S. G. w
Rollie W. Millar........J, c;,
Wm. Parker Filmer..........&. T.
6. S.
~hn Whl cher --.........c;,
L
omas J. leker...._.. __

f h''

rh

1922

William A. Sherman ...... &. M.
Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crite s........ D. 6. M.
David J. Ra11a...._ ... G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton...- ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Fllmar..........G. T.
John Whic her............._ ..G, S.
Thomas J. Baker........_ ..&, L

Rhodes Herv ey .... G. M. Arthu r S. Crite s ............&. M.
Alonzo J. Monroe.......... G. M. Wm.Penta
lpha No. 202
Bakersfield No. 224
Humboldt No. 7'
March 26, 1870
lom
Born Feb, 4, 1879
lorn Oct. 191 1151
1953
I,
Feb.
Died
J. Rease.......... D. 6. M.
1m
David
Died JuH I•,
M.
6.
D.
Web ster....
Boynton........S. G. W.
E.
Alb.
Wm. P. Filmer.......... D. G. M. Bradford
W.
s.--.S . ~.
J. D. Mur phey _._$ , G. W. Chas . A. Adam ........J. G. W. Geo. L Jone s............J. 6. W.
len
Wm. Parker Fllmar..........G. T.
Benj. F. Bled 1oe_...J, 6. W. Geo. F. Rodc
Wm. Parker Filmer...._ ...6. T. John Whl cher -...- ..-·6• S.
Edward Col emH --..6• T.
S.
John Whlc her___ __ S. John Whlchel'..................6. L Thomas J. Baker....- - 6 . L
.........._.&,
Thomas J, Baler... ___ &, L Thomas J, Baler
19H
1918
1812
Reese ..............6. M.
ster _ .. &. M. David J.
Web
ord
Bradf
M.
G.
.......
.........
r
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Wm. P. Filma
Lin Oak No. 61
Born Au9. 22, 1171
1Cln9 Solomon No. 2'0
1869
14,
Dec.
lorn
Died Nov. 9, 1934
lori March 2, 1866
Died June 4, IMI
Died Nov. 22, 1942
E. Boynton........ D. 6. M.
Alb.
M.
G.
D.
........
s
Adam
Jao. D. Murphay...... D. G. M. Chas . A.
L Jonf t............S. &. W.
Geo.
W.
G.
S.
........
en
lanj. F. Bladsoa........ S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodd............J. G. W. Will H. Fischer..........J. 6. W.
Alb. 6. Burnett .,__ J. G. W. Sam. E. Burle
Filmer..........&. T.
r Filmer..........&. T. Wm. Parle r
Edward Cole man............ &. T. Wm. Parkecher .-........_6, S. John Whlc her.......- .........6. S.
Whl
as J. Baler..._, __&, L
John Whf cher _.............6. S. John as
Thom J. Baker.... _, __&, L Thom
Thomas J, leler.....-.-6 . L

e.

Alb art E. Boynton.......... G. M.
0 rovllle No.103
lorn Oct. 9, Im
Died Feb. 22, IM
Jonf t............ D. 6, M.

Chas . Albe rt Adam1......6. M.
Excelalor No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 18'7
&eo. F. Roddan ........D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burle..... _.$ . G. W.
Wm. A. Sharman ___J, &. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........&. T.
John Whic her..- -....-.6· S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. &. L

1928

&utf av A. Huta ff.......... 6. M.
Dunsmuir No. 2f7
lorn Oct. S 1179
Died Oct. IJ, 1'33
C. M. Woll anba rg .... D. &. M.
G.
Ros1........_ ....
J.
Robt. B. Gayl ord ......J. &.
Wm. Parker Fiimer..........&. T.
~hhn Whlc her___ __ c;,
omas J, Beker..._ ........ &. L.

_.s,

s.

w.
w.
s.

1929

C. M. Woll enbe rg ........ G. M.
Sterr Kln9 No. 344
8 - Mttch 13, 1173
John S. Roa .............. D. G. M.
Robt. B. 6aylo rd......S. &. w.
Frank W. Mixtar........J. 6. W.
Wh. Parker Filmer.......... &. T.
~ n Whlc h•r-................6. S.
omas J. Beker..............&, L.

1930

........ 6. M.
Joh:, ~~art Roa
.., _,.,,- o No. 314
lor11 May 21 1119
Died Au9. J 1, 1952
Robt. I. 6aylo rd...... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter........S. G. W,
Jam11 I. &lst.._ ......J. G, W,
Wm. Parle r Filmer..........&. T.
John Whlc her.....- ...-._.. 6, S.
Thomas J. leler....--. 6. L

181

w.

ff:'·

1833

w:

1934

;r-·..,...

w·
w·
6i

--· Q
:
-=

S:

1939
WllHUam B. 09da n........6, M•
o 11 rwoodNo.311
Born Au9. 26, 1176
Lloyd E. Wlls on.- D. G M
Frank M. Smith........S. 6.
Leslie E. Woo d........J. 6 •
$ y'
Wm. Parker Filmer..
John Whic har..........::··..
5•
Walt er Leonard.........

w·
w·
·e·
::&: L

1940

Randolph V. Whlt lng ....G. M.
Kl119 Solomon No, 2'.a
Bom Nov. JO\ 1170
Died Feb. 4, 1952
Earl Warr en ..............D. 6. M
Rollie W. Miller........S. &.
Jame s T. Frasa r........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... &. T.
John Whlc her............- ...6. S.
Leslie E. Woo d................&. L

Lloyd E. WdilNson .............. &. M.
1n91es1 • o.'30
lorn Au9, "· 1"5
Frank M. Smith.......... D. & M
Laslie E. Woo d........S.
Clau de H. Morrlson ..J, 6.
...._ T
Wm. Parker Filmer..... _..,,
'
John Wh'
1char..................
W
L
• 1fer laon ard..............8.

1935

.....&. M.
Frei:,~~.; Smith.........
2'°

w:

Earl Warr an .................... &. M.
S.quo l• No. J4t
lorn Mo1rch It, lltl
Rollie W. Mlller......D. 6. M.
Jame s T. Fra1er........S. &. W.
Leon O. Whitsall...•..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....._&, T.
John Whlc har.................. 6. S.
Laslie E. Woo d........-... &. L

1938
Miller............ &. M.
Rollie W.
Sunset No. J52
Oct• 17 ' 1•3
I
orn
Jam11 T. Fraser........ D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsall ......S. 6. W.
William H. Wast a....J. 6. W.
..&. T.
WJhm. Parker Fiimer........
&. S.
o n Whlc her.._ ....__ .•$,
Leslie E. Woo d ___ __ L

&.' w·

w:

e. s.

1941

....,. •efe No.
lom April I, llM

Died Aprll 7, 1951
L•slla E. Woo d .......... D. &. M.
C 1aude H. Morrison ..$, 6.
&. C. DeFora1t........J. &.
rrm. Parker Filmar....._.6, T.
Chyd E. Wilson..............&.
ester H. Warlow........&. L

w.
w.
s.

1 42

E. W oo~ ................,..... M•
Leslie _,
p
nt No. 609
ro.,de
Born April 2 18'7
Clau d.a H. Mo~rlson ..D. &. M.
Gilbe rt C. DeForast..S. &. W.
Lawrence C. Kellay ..J, &. W.
&T
Wm. Parker Filmer
.......... • •
u d E. ·Wils
1 on..- .........&. S.
Choy
ester H. Warl ow...._&, L
·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

482
1943

1946

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

1949

Claude H. Morrison ......G. M. John R. Moore .--··-··· 6• M. Ellsworth Meyer .•.......-&. M.
liberal Am No. 677
Meridian No. 6'7
San Dle;o No. 35
Born Feb. 27, 190&
Born Sept. 1893
lorn July 10, 1887 .
Died Nov. 2, 1953
Cheste r H. Warlow.. D. G. M. Arthur Paulsen .....- .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. OeForesLD. G. M. Edward H. Slems......S. G. W. Louis E. Drape11u ......S. ,6. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W. Ellsworth Meyer...___J, G. W. Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W. Francis V. Keeslln tJ.-·-·6
· T. Francis V. Kee11in9 .._.•..G. T.
Francis V. Kee1li n1J.--.6 · T. Lloyd E. Wllson ...----·····G
· S. Lloyd E. Wllson .. _..........6. S.
Lloyd E. Wllson ..--····G . S. Arthur M. Warren .......-.G· L. Walter H. E. von Konsky 6. L
Cheste r H. Warlow___ .G. L

1944

1947

1950

Gilbert C. OeForest......G. M.
Cheste r H. Warlow ..- ..-6. M. Arthur Paulsan _ _&. M.
Reading No. 254
Trinity No. 27
Fresno No. 247
Born Sept. 18, IB89
Born May 4, 1890
Born June 30, 1889
Died Jan. 25, 1952
Louis
C. Drape11u __O. 6. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..O. G. M. Edward H. Sierns.-...0. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W. Ellsworth Meyer.. ____S. G. W. Arthur M. Warren __S. G. W.
John R. Moore..........J. G. W. Arthur Paulsen_......J. G. W. Frank Harwell, Jr-..J. G. W.
Francis V. Kee1lin9. __6. T.
Francis V. KeeslintJ.-·····6· ~· Francis V. Keeslin tJ--·-··· · T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .--······· ··6. • Uoyd E. Wilson ..........•...G. S. Uoyd E. Wllson ..- - 6 · S.
Cheste r H. Warlow.. - ....G. L Arthur M. Warren .. _...-.G• L. Walter H. E. von Kon1ky 6.L

1945

Lawrence C. Kelley ......G. M.
1951
1948
Pent1lph1 No. 202
Edward
H.
Siems
..........
6.
M.
Louis
C.
DrapH
U---·-Q • M.
Born July 23, 1889
Poinsettia No. P3
Plymouth No. 560
Died Oct. 24, 1.946
M
Born December 7, 1903
Sorn Aug. 30, 1885
Arthur W. Brou11let...... G. ·
Ellsworth Meyer. _.... D. G. M. Arthur M. Warren .. D. 6. M.
Park No. 449
Born Jan. 21, 1884
Arthur Paulsen ......- ..S. G. W. Frank Harwell, Jr .....S. G. W.
Died Sept. 18, 1953
W
Henry C. Clause n._J. 6. W.
John R. Moore ........S. 6 • • Louis C. Drapea u......J. 6. W. Francis V. Keeslinl
) ....- ..6. T.
Francis V. Keeslin9 .... _.6. T. Francis V. K~eslintJ.-·-···6. ~· Lloyd
E. Wilson ..............G. S.
-Uoyd E. Wilson ____ .6. S. Lloyd E. W1l1on ..._..... _6. •
Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L.
Cheste r H. Warlo w.-.G . L Arthur M. Werren .•..-_.6. L
1953
1952
M
Arthur M. Warren ........G. • Frank Harwell, Jr•........6. M.
Beverly Hills No. 528
Mt. bavldson No. 481
Born October 4, 1891
Born December 27, 190 I
Frank Harwell, Jr•....D. G. M. Henry C. Clausen .... D. G. M.
Henry C. Clausen ....S. G. W. EdtJar V. Stewart, Jr •..S.&.W .
EdtJar V. Stewart, Jr. J. G. W • L Harold Anderson ..J.G.W .
Francis V. Keeslin9 ........6. ~· Francis V. Kee1lin9 ........-6. T.
Lloyd E. Wilso.n ..............6. L. Lloyd E. Wilson .............-G.
Elbert W. Dav••- ······-··- 6· • Elbert W. Oavis..............6.

t

483

UST OF INSP ECT ORS
lnapector•

Date o/ Commiaaion
Dutricl
Clark H. SbaW ----··-- ········- ········· -········ ····-··.J uly, 1911
... _......-..····-···-···---622
Karl L. Ratzer;....___···--···· ········- ······-·· ·Janua ry 1, 1921..·
John M. Icardo .--·-··- -········ -··-··-· ··--·-·· -···Jan uary, 1921 -······-··········-·---·1$'12
................................380
S. Leslie Hawk en -·--···- -··--··· ··--····· ··.Janu ary 27, 1925
........................... _...364
Claren ce L. Fraser---···--------··-·--·----.December, 1927·-·
-·····--·---···-----------424
Wm. S. Thompson...._..--··-·· ·------ ------. March , 1928
........................_. __.412
Rudol ph Mohr, Jr......-----.- ···--·-· ···-··-- -··Janu ary, 1929
...............- ...............334
Geo. P. Salm --······ --··--- ------- ·--··-·· ···Jun e 14, 1930
...........................- ...538
Niles 0.
··-·--·· -····-·· -··-···· ··.July
-··-··-··--··-·······---·346
Thom as B. Pollar d............................~---··-··--J~uary,, 1932.·
1933..................·-··-··-··.316
H. R. liargr ave....................................Septe mber 15, 1934.
..........................- ...418
Chas. H. Knigh ts..................................Decem ber 28, 1934.
.....
Alexa nder D. Potts..........................- .......Janua ry 1, 1935 ·-······-······-··-·--648
....... ,........................384
John Behre ns --.-·-··-·--~·-·--·····--··-·······January 2, 1935.
...............................3'18
Chas. S. Hoga n.._·· -··-··· ·----·- ··--··- -·-.Ap ril, 1935
..........·-··-··-······-··-106
Carl C. Mikes ell....- ·-·-··-· ···----- -·-·-··· ····Oct ober, 1935
Samu el Dolla r -··---- ---·-·· ------ --.De cemb er, 1935...................--·····---604
..........................._...416
Willar d G. Babco clt.--- ··-··--- ----·-- .Janua ry 10, 1936
..
James W. Robin son.._................... _ ...........Janua ry, 1936 ·-·--···-······-··------616
...............-··-···· ·--.206
Willia m C. GOver..........................................October, 1936
..·-·-·--· ··-··-··- ----11 0
Carl F. Peters................................._____ .Nove mber 1, 1936
....... ----·-·--·········-.tiM
Georg e S. Ward...·-······-····-········-··-··-···January 1, 1937
.................. _______ ,_iM
Fred Weed .---···- ---····· ··-··-·· ·-······· -···Sep tembe r, 1938
..·-··········---··-·----642
George L. Stiver s....._...............................Nove
mber, 1938....................... _.......210
Guido de Ghetaldi.·--··-····-·--····----·-···---···October, 1938
.....- ............---··· ·-···
Roy S. Lenth all...--··-··--··---··-·--······-········January, 1939
...........
........-······-···
J. Wesley Sibol e----- ···-··-· ········ -····.D ecemb er, 1939
...........................- ...224
J. Tyler Parke r, Jr·---- ····-··· ·----·· ···Sep tembe r, 1940
................................51-A
Harol d S. Morrison..·--··----····-··--··-.December 1, 1940
................................512
Henry Kaise r..·---·- -··-··- -·-··-- ---···- --.Ap ril 1, 1941
..·-····---··-··········-··-408
Rolla L. Euban ks..·-······· ··········-··-··-··--··-····.April 1941--··-··-··-······-··--··330
Miles J. McClelland. ............---·--···-··-····--.March 10,, 1942
................................218
Orvill e L. Cobur n.........................-········-··--.March 3, 1943
.......... -··-···· ··----- 430
Elmer M. Bopp er..·-·-·-···-···-·········-···········.May 10, 1943
...........
........- -...304
Henry S. Savage, Jr...------ ··-·-·- ··--··- .July 4, 1943
Melvi n R. Berbo wer....·-········------··.November 10, 1943................................352
...................... _______624
Frede ric E. Clark.---················-----····-·January 26, 1944
.......................- ..- ....630
Earl Stewa rt.............-----·················-··--.February 6, 1944
...................- ...........220
Ray W. Mclnt yre.........................---·--··----.March 8, 1944
.......... ·------···-··---3'14
John Rama y.·-·· ·······- -··-·-· ·-----· -·····-· .July 5, 1944.
Dwig ht C. Freem an......................................March 2, 1945 .............·-····-- ··-620
...........................- ...1548
James B. Lawso n...-········-····--··-··-----...March 6, 1945
...........
.....................428
Arch Balchin....._ ........_. _________________ .March 27, 1945
..........................- .•.414
Floyd H. Watso n..........................................March 30, 1945
......·-··-··---~--------.504
Charl es C. Jlale•..- ..·-··---······-·---·--·····-···-·-.July 2, 1945
...........
...- ...............404
Edwa rd C. Lohm eyer........................Septe mber 27, 1945
.......................- .... -322
Alexa nder Dunca n......................................Octob er 9, 1945
...... ·-··-··-··--··-··-··-301

Millar------..-·..

PROCEED INGS OF THE

484
Inspecto ,.

Date of Commiss ion

Diatrid

612
.
..........................·-···
Robert W. Nicol......
..................................October 24o' 1945
45
..
.222
.Decemb er 2 , 19 ...- ......- ..- ..........W. Corell Smi~·········-·· ..............-......
1946.......................- .......53Q
Louis L. Cunnmg ham. .... _............
_...........August 2'
.360
w· Ralph Anderson................................Novem ber 4' 1946............................... ~
.
.Novem
ber
12,
19
46.......................- .......
James G Disher.................................
.Novem ber 21 1946......·-··········-······-···544
Frank W.· Johnson
.····-······
··-··-···-··
' 1946................................532
.
John A. Crosbie. -................-................Novem ber 21,
1 1947
_••..02
Arch T. Roberson........................................January
. 7' 1 7···-··-··-· ·-··---·· .632
.April
...............................
R
R
' 94
ay · Bell.--:-··-............................-.............
7 1947................................808
Stanhen E Skidmo re.................................-.. .April
.
'
-,..
·
...............---··-.......428
Fred C. Pritschke............................................April 7, Hl47
1947...............
.Decemb
er
15,
..,.........
Harry Burrows
...............---········-····
.
Russell Northrop................................. .Decemb er 20, 19477.•......... _...................51l
366
. .
Frank R. Killmge r, J r-........................ .Decemb er 29, 1947................................
358
.Decemb
er
29,
...............
...............
194
.
.
Howard S. Kaulbach...........................
226
Stanley Hurst Wentz................................. .March
. 16' 1948...................... ·-·······542
.
.April
22,
1948
...............
............
...
Roy T. :Kiele................................._................
ril 22 1948................................628
William T. Rodger.....- ................ _ ................Ap
June
19' 1948................................~18
Howard Laurent..............................................
'
.
... _...........................388
Robert N. Walker..................................·-·······July 28 ' 1948
lD48...............
Septemb
er
11
.................112
Elmer Glen Van Tasse11....................
,
' 194 ...............
.Novem ber
5,
.................108
8
Reginal d Reynolds............................... Jan
9
...............
.................518
194
Donald G. Campbe ll. ......................-····-·-uary 17,' 1 9...............
.January
............
- ...610
94
Albert E. Carroll.......................................
l949.............................. .520
January
31
.
Louis H. Mahl~........................................
420
y 9' 1949...............................
·
Orin Compton..........................................Februar
.M 16, 1949
..550
Owen.
_
....
...
···-··------·-···-····-ay '
.............................
John A.
........
.................................578
Chas A. Thomasset........................................June 28 ' 1949
1949
·
June 30
................................202
..........-.................
'
Erl·c Wm. Nelson...............
9
.
.June
30
194 .......- ......,.............. ..862
William Nankerv is, Jr.......:. .................- ....' 1
...
Septemb
er
16,
949................................382
Eugene P. J1Jme..................................
October
1' 1949................................._19
Wilson Ernest Lathrop..............................
.Novem
ber
7 1 1949...................- .......... .MB
Robert H. Taylor.. .................................
January 16' 1950................................3'°
H erbert H. Schultz..................................January 16, 50.............................. 841
19
..
Maurice E. Coffey....................................
January 16 1950................................386
pe.....v
M.
Spencer
.......
:
...............
-...........
'
•• ,, .
January 16' 1950............................... .310
Jack Mast.................................................. January 16,
1950................................
Earl Caldwell............................................
..April 1"- 1950................................409
Delbert E. Luck........·-·---····· -·...- ......- ..-·
· 1 1950................................522
Elmer R. Lotz..................................................April
.Ap ril 4' 1950...- ...............
.......- ...528
Elvin C. Drake...................- .......................... .Mav14: 1950..............................
..802
8
~ 0ht
............................·-·- .................... .M....,
J oh n B· 8' 1950................................55•
ay
•
son
McArth ur........................................... _..
An
.May 8 1950............................... .5M
bert
V.
Youngs..
...............
............................
' 1950
Al
·
n59
8' 1950···-··••""" ""-······-" '
Chas. W. Lunsfor d. ..................- ............----·-·1!11ay
.558
.May
8
...............................
Martin 0. Veland.............................................
81 1950
.....HO
. ·······-······J.UAJ '
...............
Wm. E . Keogh
· ....................................
..
50......................... - 58•
______
...
..MOY
8,
19
...............
..
Paul Thompson..................................
.
826
Myron E. Roudebu sh. ........,...............................May 8, 195o.................·-··-·······

-···*

m

~

u-.-

lnapecto ,.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

485

Date of Commis&ion

District

W. Ben Sorrells..................................................May 8, 1950................................
634
Hugh D. Good.....- ..........:..................................?d;ay 8, 1950................................
688
Ted R. Siema........·-·--··-··- -··-··--··· ····--····. May 8, 1950................................
614
William N. Pedder............................................May 8, 1950...............................
Leland E. Wallace................................Septemb er 7, 1950.................................564
21>4
Walter Edward Sanner......................Novem ber 24, 19~0............................... .326
Frank W. Raddatz ................................Novemb er 24, 1950...........................- ..
HI
Olen F. Turner......................................Novemb er 24, 1950................................630
Joseph Myron Ruggier o....................Decemb er 21, 1950................................
332
Arthur Boone..........;.............................Decemb er 21, 1950...................... :.........
506
Guy S. Harts, Sr...................................Decemb er 21, 1950..............................~508
J. Ralph Dawdy........................................Jp.nuary 26, 1951................................
Andre L. Armand....................................January 26, 1951................................422
'1!16
Robert McGarv a..........................................March 11, 1951................................
109
Jack Walton Lelshina n..................................May 18, 1951........................ ~.......
337
Elmer Gaylord Quinn ....................................May 18, 1951....................... - ..... :367
Loren Alton IJoyd...............................-.........1\(ay 18, 1951................................
Jenning s E. Muir.........................................-.July 10, 1951................................370
432
Joseph H. White....- ........................- .......October 18, 1951................................
116
George H. Olmsted..................................October 18, 1951................................
216
Reginal d Bunce........................................October 23, 1951................................
345
Charles Joseph Savage..........................Novemb er 6, 1951................... -.~ .......640
Kent 0. Seymou r............................... .Novem ber 15, 1951......c.. ; ............... .......
314
Edward J. Guirado..............................Decemb er 12, 1951...- ......................... ~568
Carl F. La Vo........................................Deeemb er 15, 1951.................................
366
Carroll C. Doane...,. ...................................January 1, 1952................................
307
Ralph Geo. Riches....................................January 10, 1952................................
338
Ballard White, Jr...................................Decemb er 12, 1951................................
l~
Orval A. Myers................................... .Decemb er 12, 1951................................
118
Kenneth C. Stan18'Y..................................Februa ry 7, 1952................................
636
Wilfred W. Partridg e.............................- ...March 31, 1952................................
Lynn A. Blaclanu n..................................... .March 31, 1952................................502
Edward Farley..................................................May 12, 1952................................li03
Burrell Clifford Jull.............._ .......................May 12, 1952................................ 208
Harry K. Widup..................................Novemb er 10, 1952................................212
344
Frank Harring ton................................Novemb er 13, 1952..............................
James A. Drace....................................Novem ber 14, 1952..................................510
Milton H. Lang......................................Novemb er 14, 1952................................228
J. Harry Snowde n. .................................Decemb er 9, 1952................................540
Fred L. Fergqso n......................................January 1, 1953................................ 606
618
Carvil W. Marlatt......................................January 1, 1953..............................
Henry P. Lawhom . .................................January 19, 1953..................................308
John F. Knight..........................-.............January 19, 1953.............................. 566
Paul F. Ruft..............................................Februa ry 4, 1953..................................372
Harry H. Ailnan........................-...................March 2, 1953................................361
644
Paul A. Hackler........................-.................March 26, 1953................................330
Samuel Steelma n...........................................April 17, 1953..............................
Clarenc e A. Trowbrid.ge.........-....................June 18, 1953..................................528
Lester Totten.. ............................. _...................June 23, 1953.......... - ............... 300
Sam Lovell......................................................June 25, 1953..................................114
Robert Edgar............................. ---..............August 27, 1953........................__ .......214
386
Ray Earl Burdg......................................Septemb er 5, 1953~..............................
Chas. R. Morton. .................................Septemb er 14, 1953......- ........................217
318
James E. Fhtley.........................-..............Ootober 10, 1953............................... .328

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

486

FOR EIGN GRA ND LODGES
R1cog11iz6'1 tmd in Pr111erflill R1lations with th•
Grtmd Lodg1 of Calif<>mu

Argen tina:
Alcib iades Lappa s, Grand Secty .,
Cang allo 1242, (R. 28), Buen os Aires , Argen tina
Boliv ia:
Isaac Sarav ia Norie ga, Grand Secty .,
Casill a Corre o No. 564,
La Paz. Boliv ia.
Brasi l:
The Gran d Lodg e of Amaz on and Acre
Secty.,
Ferna ndo De Lemo s Falco ne, GrandBrazi
l
Caixa Posta l 162, Mana us, Amaz onas,
Bahia
of
~e
The Grand
Diego Mene zes do Nasci mento , Gran d Secty, .,Brazi l
Rua Carlo s Gome s No. 21, Salva dor, Bahia
The Gran d Lodg e of Mina s Gerai s
of Forei gn Relat iom
Sergi o Alexa ndre Ivane nko, Gran d Sectys. Gerai
s, Brazi l.
Mina
onte,
Horiz
Belo
5,
No.
l
Posta
Caixa
Ceara
The Gran d Lodg e of the State of
.,
Luiz Nepo muce mo de Matto s, Gran d Secty
l
Caixa Posta l 76, Forta leza, Estad o do Ceara , Brazi
yba
Parah
of
State
The Gran d Lodg e of the
Secty.,
Enesi o Barbo sa de Albuq uerqu e, Gran d yba,
Brazi l
Caixa Posta l No. 3, Joao Pesso a, Parah
Para
of
e
The Grand Lodg
Relat ions
Franc isco da Silva Costa , Gran d Secty . of Forei gn
l
Brazi
Para,
,
Belem
Caixa Posta l 333,
The Gran d Lodg e of Piaui
Grand Secre tary
Caixa Posta l No. 10, Teres ina, Piaui , Brazi l
The Gran d Lodg e of Rio de Janei ro Secty .,
Jacy Garn ier de Bacel lar, Gran d
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janei ro, Brazi l, S. A.
The Gran d Lodg e of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFle ury, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.,
Caixa Posta l 2611, Sao Paulo , Braz il
The Grand Orien te of the State of Rio de Janei ro
Grand Secre tary
ro, Brazi l.
Rua Visco nde de Mora is No. 60, Niteroi, Rio de Janei
Sul
Do
de
The Gran d Symb olic Lodg e of Rio Gran
gn Relat ions
Carlo s Barce llas Fagun des, Gran d Secty . ofe Forei
Brazi l
Sul.
do
Grand
Rio
e,
Alegr
Porto
683,
l
Posta
Caixa
Cana da:

Albe rtaEdwa rd H. River s, Gran d Secty .,
Maso nic Temp le, Calga ry.
Britis h Colu mbia J. H. N. Morg an, Grand Secty.,
692 Seym our St., Vanco uver, B. C.
Onta rio-Ewar t G. Dixon . Gran d Secty.•
P. 0. Box 217, Hami lton, Ontar io.

GRAND LODGE OP ,CALI FORN IA

Mani tobaThom~ C. Jacks on, Grand Secty .,
Maso nic Temp le, Winn ipeg, Mani toba.
New Brun swic kR. D. Mage e. Gran d Secty
Maso nic Temp le, St. JoJuU, New Bruns wick.
Nova ScoU aRegin ald V. Harr.is. Gran d Secty
Freem asons ' Hall, Halifax:, Nova Scotia
Princ e Edwa rd lslan dF. A. Van Iders tine Gran d Secty
P. 0. Box 112. Char'I otteto wn, P. E_ I.
Queb ecR. W. Louth ood, Gran d Secty
1559 St. Mark s St., Mont real, Queb ec
Sask atche wan.
Robt. A. Tate. Grand Secty,,
P. 0. Box 246, Regin a, Saska tchew an.
Ch De:
Dr. J. Edua rdo Paste ne Gran d Secty
Casill a 2867, Santi ago, Chile, s. A:'
China :
W. K. Au, Gran d Secty.,
David
11 H
.
a art Ave., 1st Floor , Kowl oon, Hong Kong, B.C.C
Colom bia:
Gran Logia de Colom bia ·
Apart ado 2519, Bog~ta, Colom bia, s. A.

Costa Rica:
Enriq ue Chav es Bolan os, Gran d Secty .,
Apart ado Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba . Ille of:
Dr. Jose F. Caste llanos Gran d Secty
Apart ado 72, La H~bana, Cuba. .,
•cirecho-SloYaJda:
Gr&!ld Lodg e Lessi ng at Prag uee.
Natio nal Grand Lodg e of Czech o-Slo vakia at Pragu
Denm ark:
Natio nal Grand Lodg eSvend F. Jacob sen, Grand Secty
Blegd amsv ej 23, Copen hagen , D~k.
Ec:uado.r:

Jose AlJ!elio Valle jo Ycaza, Grand Secty.,
Casill a No. 932, Guay aquil, Ecuad or, S. A.
Egyp t:
The Natio nal Gran d Lodg e of Egyp t
El ~yed Kami ! El Shark awy, ·
Be1te Posta le No. 1714, Cairo , Egyp t.

487

, 488

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

El Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Dr. Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
Avenida Espana 156, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.

England1
Sidney A White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London. England.
Flnland:
Bruno Kivikoski, Grand Secty.,
Snellmaninkatu 25B, Helsinki, Finland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
. L. F. Poirson, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
The Grand Lodge of France,
Georges Marty, Grand Chancellor
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodge of Germany,
Ferdinand von Cles, Grand Secty.,
Kanzlei, Frankfurt ·am Main, Friedrich-Ebert-Stra sse 37.
Greece:
Dr. Antonios Ranunos, Grand Secty.,
58 Ioulianou St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala:
Carlos Bianchi, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A
Honduras:
Miguel Angel Zelaya, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 28, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C. A.
Ireland:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland
Israel:
E. Dubinsky, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Enzo Minutillo, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 1, Rome.

Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Cantwell C. Brown, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Alfonso Gomez Pereyra, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 42, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.

Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
Reinaldo Guzman, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Paciftc
Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Ruben Marquez Romo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
An1el Galindo Cruz, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Ii&, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Pablo C. Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D, F.
Retherlanclas
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. A A Geleatin. Grand Secty..
22 Fluweelen Burgwal, The Hague.
Hew South Wains
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James .s. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Hall. Sydney, N.S.W.
Hew Zealand:
F. G. Northern. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1833, Wellington C. l, New Zealand
Rlcaraguas
Agustin Vanegas P., Grand Secty.
Apartadp 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.

Rorwara
Odd Lle-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurerloeen, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.

Puamu

Nathan A Reid, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.

Perus
Cesar Cevallos Villacorta Grand Secty
Apartado 2190, Lima; Peru.
"
. Philippine lalanda1
Antonio Gonzales, Grand Secty
~20 San Marcelino, Manila. P. I.

Puerto Ricos
E. Isales, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
QuMmluds
E. G. Radford, Grand $ect7
Box 8'15, K. G. P. 0., s'riabane, Auatralia.

489

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Scotland:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty.•
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
G. E. A. Bottiger, Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
Grand Lodge Suisse Alpina,
Alfred Siza, Grand Secty.,
25, Bd. du Pont - d' Arve, 25, Geneva, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
H. A. Wilkinson, Grand Se.cty.,
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venezuela:
Jesus M. Chango Gomez, Grand Secty .,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
•vienna:
Westem Australia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G. P. 0. Box D-177, Perth, Australia.
•Yugoslavia:
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.
•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to ~eing rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. F . E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
. Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
· Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
- Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Seal Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blaclaner (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.

Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (U.D), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111). Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citrol (656), Brea.

491

~ ..c..1

..

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES-Co ntinued

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES-Co ntinued

492

Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claiborne (185>°, Point Arena.
Corona (324), Pasadena. .
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E

Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Ev~reen (259), Riverside;
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo..
Fairmount (435), San Franctsco.
Fairview (629) , Los Angeles.
F.allbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.

Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.

Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Campbell.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.

493

Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (5~J Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles .
Hartlef (199), Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawahan (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howa rd (37), Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
San Francisco.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach (380)
Huntington Beach. '

I
Illinoistown (51); Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), China Lake.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A. Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles .
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420). Kerman.

Keystone (161), Milton.
Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cwnbre (642), Senta Barbara.
La Fayette (126); Sebastopol

Laguna Beach (672)l.Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

494

ALPHABET ICAL LIST OF LODGES-Co ntinued
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
La Puenta (446) Puenta.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Larchmont (614). Los Angeles. .
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
La Parfaite Union (17), San FranclSCO. Lorenzo (709), Hayward.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Altos (812), Palo Alto.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Honolulu, T. H.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles. Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mineral King (720), Visalia.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia Park 715), Burbank.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan HilL
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain View (194),
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mountain View.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerne".:ille.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount M<?riah (44), San FrancISco.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
'.Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Military Service (570), San Fr·ancisco. Mount Shasta (281), Anderson. .
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mount Vernon (517), San FrancJSco.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Northern California Research
Lodge (U.D.), San Francisco.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275) Oakdale.
Oak Grove (2i5), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.

Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369);.. Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), vceanside.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

495

ALPHABET ICAL LIST OF LODGES-Co ntinued
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Ol!ve Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.

Or~ental (144), San Francisco.

Ormda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265). Orland
Orosi (383), Orosi. ·
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pac!fic (136), San Francisco.
Pa~ific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pa3aro (110), Watsonville
Pal~tine (351), Los Angeies.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Penrhyn (358) Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.
Ramona (457), Monterey Park
Reading (254), Redding.
·
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City
Redwood Empire (683), Garbervill~.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
R!ch~ond (375), San Francisco.
Rio VJSta (208), Rio Vista.

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
·
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
·
Point (503), Richmond.
Po~nt Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Pomt Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (U.D.), No. Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Port~ryille (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Prog~essive (578), Los Angeles.
Provid~nt (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R
Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead. ·
R~sing Light (397), Huntington Park.
R~verb.ank (459), Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside
Rockridge (468), Oakland.'
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville
Roseyille (222), Roseville. ·
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
San Ferna~do (343), San Fernando.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
Saint John's (724), Walnut Creek.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Salinas (20~), Salmas.
San Gorgonio (668), Bannin
San Ant?mo (694), So1:1th Gate.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
g.
San Benito (~11), Hollister.
San Jacinto (338) San Jacinto
San Bernardmo (348), San Bernardino.San Joaquin (19) 'Stockton ·
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Jose (10) sah Jose
.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
San Juan (U b) Fair Oaks
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Lorenzo.Vahey (718) ·
San Diego (35), San Diego.
Boulder Creek.
'

496

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHA BETICA L LIST OF LODGE S-Cont inued

ALPHA BETICA L LIST OF LODGE S-Cont inued

San Marino (685), South Pasadena .
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena .
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Los Olivos
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks , .
T.H.
Seafaring (708), Costa Mesa.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco .
Seaport (550), San Francisco .
Searchlig ht (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfie ld.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierravill e.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Hollywoo d.
Silveyvil le (201), Dixon.

Sincerity (132), Greenvill e.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourne r (507), Monrovia .
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsbu rg.
Southern Californi a (278),
·
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southern Californi a Research
Lodge (U.D.), Hollywoo d.
Southlan d (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena .
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco .
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco .
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislau s (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco .
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnysid e (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyva le (511), Sunnyval e.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarvill e.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehacha pi(313),T ehachapl
Tehama (3), Sacramen to.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley .
Three Pillars (613), Sacramen to.
Torrance (447), Torrance .

Travelers (692), Sacramen to.
Traver (294), Kingsbur g.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weavervi lle.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumn e (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (U.D.), Bell.
Tyrlan (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramen to.
Unity (368), Glendale .
Univenit y (3M), Los Ancelea.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

497

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville .
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco .
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale .

Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorvil le (634), Victorvil le
Victory (474), San Francisco :
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
Westwoo d (501), Westwoo d.
North Sacramen to.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Washing ton (20), Sacramen to.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wilmingt on (198), Wilmingt on.
Westches ter (703), Los Angeles.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Winnedw nah (287); Bishop.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
Woodridg e (131), Woodridg e.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Woodlan d (156), Woodland .
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles. Woodstoc k (491), Alameda .

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), Los Angeles.

Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Committee
on
Correspondence

Omitted from Proceedings this year

Separate copies have been mailed to each Lodge
and to each Jurisdiction.

Additional copies are available on
request to the Grand Secretary.

501

INDEX

INDEX

FOR
A

1953

Page
Alphabetical List of Lodges..................................................... _••••.••...•...•..•••.•.••....•••••• 491
Amendments to By-Laws
Reported b6. Grand Secretary.................................................................................... 42
Approved y Committee..........•...........•••..•.••..•••....•......••...••••.••.....•.•......•......•.••...••... 179
Annual Returns
·
Audit ...................................•......................•..........•..............•...•.......•.....•...••..........•... 327
Tabulation ..................................................................•....•.......................................... 399
Appendix
1

~;::i:i ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~g

Audits
1953 Returns .............................................................................................................. 327
Grand Lodge .............................................................................................................. 328
Endowment Fund ...................................................................................................... 344
Masonic Homes ........•....•..................................•....•.............••......•.......•.................... 353

B

Berlin, Grand Lodge of, Not Recognized.•..•..••..••....•.....•.•.••- ..................................... 217
1
Biography, Arthur M. Warren....................................................................................
Board of Control Report................................................................................................ 123
Brouillet, Arthur William, P.G.M., Eulogy................................................................ 229
Budget
Comparison with Expenditures 1952-53.................................................................. 341
For 1953-54 ············-··-···-·····-·-···-•····.:.··-·········-·--········-··-······-·-···317, 326
By-Laws

~===~: :~~:{.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l~~

Report of Committee.................................................................................................. 179
Uniform Code Amended............................................................................................ 301

c

California Masonic Memorial Temple
Contributions Required .............................................................................................. 298
Legislation Proposed ................................................................................................ 141
Non-profit Corporation Authorized.......................................................................... 277
Per Capita Tax Set.................................................................................................... 298
Report of Committee......................................................·-·································--- 128
Ceremonies
Dedication of Public Sc:hoola.................................................................................... 320
Grand Lodge Installation.......................................................................................... 319
Report of Special Committee.................................................................................... 165
Certification .................................................................................................................... 3
Charters
Charters Issued .....•......................................................•... ~......................................... 198
Committee Enlarged .................................................................................................. 297
Grand Master's Recommeridation.............................................................................. 75
Report of Committee.............................................................................·-················· 197
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes............................................ 260
§~~:bn~~aann~ ~~~;~m~~~Tu:on.···············-··································-···················· 217

Audit .......................................................................................................................... 363
Contributions for Covina.......................................................................................... 393
Contributions for Dec.oto.....................................................................-.................... 388
Clark, Hany Stanley, Necrology R,eport. •••·-·:······---·····-·····-··--············"··--········· 225

Page
Columbia Temple Committee Report.................................................,~..1T'..,..,._ 304
Commission on Revision of Rou Dfgeat
'."I'- _.,..
~ppointment of .......................................................................................................,,. 68

eor:I:i~~~~~P"~i;;t;;;~·;;1~············································-·················································· 177

~~~ ~53-54~::~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 41~

Committee Reports
(See Reports of Committees)
Compensation Insurance
Grand Master's IJcference.•••..............••.•.................•......••.......•..•••,...,.,••••.••~-··· ..···•··~ 69
Grand Secretary 1 ~-··-················•···---········-···-······-········-···············..•• "1' 36
Special Committee Report..............................................................~··················-··:,; 255
Consolidated Statements
Assets and Liabilltiea.........................•;...........................................................~··y~ 330
Rec.elpts and Dlsbunements...•....•.....•..•......:........................,. ................, ................- 332
Constituent Lodges LUted........................................................:........,....,.•____ ,.....___. 462
Constitutional Boards .................................................................................................... 418
Constitution Month Observance
Letter to~ ...................................................................................................... 100
Report of c.oinmlttee.................................................................................-.............. 203
Contributions
Endowment Fund ···························-···········································-···························· 369
Entertainment Fund ·····-····-·················-···············--·····,..,...........~.......... ~......... 393

Co~;%~t ~~~~e··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 39~

Correspondence Committee
Report of ............................................................•...............•................................•...... 176
Distribution of R~................. ~.......~.............................,..,.........:...?.!....,-n-··-··-..; 498
Covina Residents ·············-················································-··········~·-·········"'"···-·····-···· 391
Covina Special Fund

~~:!ib~ti~~·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::: ~~~

Credentials, R~por.t of Committee on••....•••••..•.••.•.••+-···-·-··-··-·-··•·-··········••·········· 205

D
Davis, William L.. Necrology Report. ..........................,................~..;....,..-.. ,•--·--~ 224
Decisions of Grand Master
Investment Procedure ···········-······························································-··················· 78
'Year ButtOn.:•.,.-.............................._................- ..•••,._.,_:...,..,.,.............,_..,.. 79
1atlon .................................................................................................................... 79
Issuing Dimit on Request of Son of Member................:....,_.,.,•..•..,..••.••_............"... 80
Lotteries ···········································-·························:............................................... 80
Authority of lnfllletliora---·-·-··-•·m•oH••··............................................................ 80
Visiting
Entlred Apprentice................................................................................ 80
Effect of
urt Mart!al.:....-....................~j................................................................ 81
Publication of Candidate's Name.....:................................. _ ..~---·-·······..
81
Trial of ~.........~ .............................................................................:!.......'!......! 81
Conviction of P'l!lony.--...................................................,.....;:..:.......,..•!!;.,._.'Tr.-:!·-, 82
Investment Limitations .............................................................................................. 82
Forfeiture of ffm..._..•:...................................................................................._.: 82
Communist Party Membtrshlp.:........................................................................... _.... 83
Profit on Life Membership Securities............•- ............................................-.......:...:~ 84
Procedure After Forfeiture of Peea............................ ~............ :...:.•.••~••.;.:..~ ......:•• 84
Credit Reports ............................................................................................................ 85
Social Expenditures .................................................................................................. 85
Report of. Jurisprudence Committtt................................ "'$.-:.-····--····-~······.,....,:...~. 290
Decoto Residents Listed........................................................................-.................. 380

XWJ'

bCo

··-··--•y

t:

502

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Decoto Special Fund

363

t:1t!.h~ti~~·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g

Dedication of Public School BUiiding..•.- .. ·············~······························-·············:····· 303
De Molay Committee Repart. ............................................................................... _..... 9
Devotional Service ··-··-······-············ ····-···-····-··········· ·················..·····-...................
Di\)eSt
(See Commission on Revision of Rosa Digest)
.
Directors of Club Houses..•.·-···································································-·····-··········· 419

DisJ:s"~:s .Llated........................._........................................--···-·-··-··--···· ·- ~~
t~:.;;1·:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;.::::::::: 292
~~!':~~ ~!d ....................................................................:............................. l~~

Address by Orvin M. Miles ••.....•......•••.•...•••...•.,........................................................ 218
Address by Angus Y. Bethune......................·-····················-···································

E
Election of Oflcera...................................._ ................................................................. 321
Endowment Fund
. .
Title Vested in ·Masonic Homes......................._...........................
....................2S8• 294
(See also Endowment Mootb Qbeervaoce)
Endowment Month Observance
369
Contributions through Lodges......................·--·-··--····--··· ·-···-··-···-----· ·- 118
Honor Roll ...................--·-··-······-·····-·····-·······························-···········-·············· 117
Memorial Contributions Llsted.•.•...••...•.••.·-·-························-·······-···········-·-······ 297
Memorials in Lieu of Flowen................................................... _............................. 99
Proclamation ..............................................................................................................
Entertainment Fund
~e Christmas and Entertainment Fund)
.

E

A.rtfi':r

William Broulllet. P.G.M...........,..................;••••.••••--······················· ·-··· ~j~
Will H. Fischer, P.G.M•••.,............._......................................................................... 228
James Thomas Praaer, P.G.M...............---··········-···--·· ·····-·-··-·-··-··-·· -····-· 231
Robert Brainerd Gaylord. P.G.M.............................................·-·····--··············· ·· 236
William Rhodes Hervey, P.G.M...............................................................................

Ec:a~t'M!s~is1
fi::!:~tions.................-··········-···-···-·-··---·-·-··-······· 2~
Report of Committee on Juriaprudence.............................
57·

..................................
260
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes....................................2 •
''Extended Compass'' Shown.--·--·-•M.....-·-···-··---··-- ·-··-·-··..····--··-···Extinct Lodges ................................................................ _ .............................
.............

!il

F
Fifty Year Buttons Pre.mted.......................-·······-··········-··· ······-·-····-··-·····- ·--·· 47
Finance Committee Report. ............................................................,............................... ~~~
Fischer, Will H., P.GJl,J., Eulogy...........................................................- ................
Flint Annuity Fund Audit.........................................- .......................,.....,....................., 361
Flint Trust Fund Audtt..........- .................................................................................... 361.
Forest Lodge No. 66
201
Report of Committee on a..rtera.........................................---·-·-·-·-··-··-· ······
Report of Grand Master.....................................................-.......·-··-··-······--..-··· 17
Foreign Grand toacJes
67
Appointment of Cummltlee..----·-·········-·-·--~....- · 486

~~~;! :;=~~~~~::::::::::::'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::= 216

503

Page
Forfeiture of Fees
Decisions of Grand Ma.llter....................................................................................82, 84
Section 100 Amended................................................................................................ 302
Section 241 Amended.................- ............................................................................. 301
Uniform Code of By-Laws Amended...........................•.•.•.••..- ...•.•~ ........;..•..•.••••••_ 301
Fraser, James Thomas, P.G.M .. Eulogy•..••...........•...............••.••.•._.........:.-·······--·-- 228
Funds of Lodge
(See Expenditures from Lodge Funds)
(See Investment of Lodge Funds)

G
Gaylord. Robert Brainerd, P.G.M.. Eulogy........•....................•...........•....•.••..........••.• 231
George Waahtngton Ma.sonic National Memorial
Report of Committee..................................................................................... _..•....••.• 214
Grand Lecturer's Report................·-·-·-········-···-····-····-·················-··-··········..···•••·•• 54
Grand Lodge AudlL.·-································-········--··············································-··· 328
Grand Lodges Recognized
State of Plaui, Brazil_.......................................-·····-·--·-······-··········-·················- 217
China ,...-··-·····-·r·-················-··················-··················-···································"'···· 217
Grand Master-Arthur M. Warren
Biography -········-·······················-··············································-··············-·············
1
Photograph ----···--·-·-···-······-··-··-······-··········-·--·····-···········-····--Prem~
Message of ••.......•.•.•...•........•.............•..•...•........•..
....•...........••..•••.•..•.......••.......••..•••.. 57
Grand Secretary
.
Report of ·--·-·-····-··················································-··················-·······················;· 36
Grand Treasurer
Appointment of for Communication..••••_.................................................................. 8
Report of ····-···············--····-····-··························································-··················· 29
Graves of Past Grand Mastera..........................................................................-···-··· 248
Grievances Committee Report. ..........................................·-····-·····--····--·· ····-·-·-- 282
Gross, Leonard
Memorial Fund Aadit.--·-·-····-···-·······-·-······-..·······--···-······-··-··-·---- 361
Necrology Report -·-·············-·······-···-····-····································--·~·-·········-······· 221

H
Hervey, William Rhodes, P.G.M., Eulogy.....·--·············--······· ···············-··-··-··- ··· 236
History Committee, Report
248
Homes Statistics ............................................................................................................ 397

°'·········--··········-················-···-··················-···-···-..:...
I

Inspectors Listed ···-······································································-··-························-· 483

InsRu;~~e ~ro&r::ittee on Policy..................................:......................- ............---·-. 279

Report of Grand Master••·--···-···-·············-··-·•·····-···----····-···-·······----··· 69
Report of Grand Secretary·-·······-·················--·-····-·-·-··-··---....---··--- 36
Report of Special Committee.•....•..•••..••••••..•._..............._ ...............................- - 255
Investment Committee
Report of -···--··························································-····················-············-········- 32
Investment of Lodge Funds
Limitations -··-·····-····-···-····- ·························· ···-·..···-··················-··--·--·~ 290
Procedure ··-·-····-······-···························:......••.•••.....•...•••,...•._.••_ ......- ..........-A 290

J
Jewel of Judge Advocate......................................_...............................,...............:'...- 319
Judge Advocate
.
Report of Committee on Ceremonies............................................~........................... 319

504

.

INDEX

INDEX

Page
····---·· 296
Report of Committee on Jurilprudence.....•-····-········ ·-·-·····-···· ········-·····
··-··········-··· 320
Report of Committee on Ritual.. ...........................-········-·····•·····-···-··Report of~ Committee.............................. _...........-··········-· ··-·······-·· ····-- 212

~!t of Sec1J::n~eL~................-··-··-·- --·---·-· ·-·---·-· -·-··-- 299
Jur~:t'"
Amendment of Section 32-.............................- ..........- •••:........- ..---·-··- ·-·--· 299

Amendment of Section 70...... _............................................:.........-·······-- ··--··- 297
-··--·•·..·-·--·...... -·-·--·--·· ·- 297
Amendment of Section 74.•.•·---·-······ ··---·-·-···
Amendment of Section 99.-............................................---··-· ·-;-··- ·--- 298
Amendment of Section 100.....................................-·-··-·····-·- ··············· ········-·-···· 302
Amendment of Section 100 (a)·······················-················-···-····-···················-····· 298
Section 101 ............................-······-··· ·-···-··-·· ···-··-··-· -·-- ~
Amendment of
Amendment of Section 111 ............. _ ••••• _. _ _......_. _____••__....•••- ••..-.. 9
303
Amendment of Section 126.....................·-····-·-·· ·--··---...___. ...............
Amendment of Section 133.............................................· - · - - - · - · · · - - - - 301
297
Amendment of Section 158.............·--······ --·-·-·-·-· - - ·---- 293
Amendment of Section 163•....••...·-····-····· ·-·-·-···-· ······-···-· -··--·-···Amendment of Section 175.........·-··-·- ··-'"·· ------ ---··- --- 294
---- 302
Amendment of Section 240•.•..•.••..•·-·········· ··-·-···-··· ··-·······-- ·-··-·-·-·Amendment of Section 24L..............- · - - · - · - - · - · · - · - · - - · - - - 301
-··-·-·· -- 294
Amendment of Section 250................·-····-···· -···--·····-- 294
--··--····
--···-·····
·--···-·-·
--···-·····
251-··--Section
Amendment of
·-······ 274
...........·-············ ·-···---..-·····-····Application Form (Degrees) .................
290
_______
.........
.................
.................
Approval of-I>edalona.....................................
Approval of Diapensation.s...................................................................-··········-· ··- 292
··· 281
California Maaonic Memorial Temple Title........................................-···-·········... 299
Call for Special Comuiunicatlon.................................................................................
290
.................
.................
.................
..;
..............
.................
Muter
Grand
of
DeciBions
Discussion of Public: Questions....................................................-··-······-··· ··-··-··· 303
..·-·········· ··-···---·· ·---·--···· --·-··-··-· ·· 292
Dispensations Approved .................
Donation In Lieu of Plowers...................................................................--............ .. 297
Dues in Research Lodg_es........--······-··· ····--··-·-· -····-····-· -······----· -··-·····-- 260
·-·-··-···-- ··----.-.-- --··--·- 260
Funds:...·-·········· -····-··-···
Expenditure of Lodge Constitute
~a._.......................................-................. 292
Extension of Time to
Financial Support of Public: Schools........,...............................-··-·-·-··· -··--······· 303
Forfeiture of Pea••·-····-·········-···········-·-················-····-··········-··············-··········· 301
Grand Master's I>edsfons..-............. _ ...............-··-·---· -·----··· ·---·--·- - 290
296
Judge Advocate ···-········-· ·-····--··-·· ···-·"······- -···-······•· -·-....-····---··· ···-···-260
lodge Expenditures ····-··-·-· ··-··-·-·-· ····-·--··· ···-··-··-- ·---··-·-- ----··· 27
······-··········-··-··· 4
Mandatory Proficiency ·····--····················-·····-·······················-·········-··········
-··-··· 297
nt Fund..•.-···-·-···-··--·····-··· _.................
Memorial Donation to Endowme.................
.. 298
........._ ............................
Memorial Temple Contrlbutioos.
Memorial Temple Per Capita Tax...-.----······---·---··-··--.---·-·---~ 298
··--· 281
············· ·······-····· ············- ··········--Memorial Temple nt1e..·-···········--·--- 260
Minimum Dues, Reaearch LodgeL..•._.............-.............
Objection After lnltiatlon..........................................-····--······ ··-·-··-··-·· ····--·--· 302
Per Capita Tax for Memorial Temple· -·········-· ···-···-·-- ----·-····- ...····--··· 298
Plural Membership -···-···-···· -···-·····-·· ·············· ····-····-··· ···-·--··--- .--··-"--· 293
Proftdency in Master Mason Degree.·-·······-······•· ·······-·--·· -··--···-·-· -··-····-· 274
Public Questions Diac:ulaed............................................·-······-·--···-···········-···-··· 303
Quorum for Grand Lodge Communi cation'··-·- ··············- ··········-···· ···-··-··-··-· ·· 299
Refund of Homes Ccotributloa.•...••..•..•..-··········-········-············-..·····-····-·······-··· 302
Research Lodges, Minimum Dun.....................----·-··- ---·--···· ---·-·-··· ··- 260
Special Communication Call..·-·····························-········-····-····---·-··········-··-·.. 299
Subversives Ineligible ····-··········~·--··········-····-···--·-······---··---···.-·-··-···-- 292
Time to Constitute Lodges Eztet;tded.................................................................. _.... 292
Title to Endowment FuncL........................·--········· --·········- --··-··..·-·--·--·. , 294
Title to Memorial Temple Site••...•••.•.•.--········-·· ·············· ·······--··--.........,..••• 281
Trial Procedures ······-······ ···-········· ··-·········- ·····-······· ····-···-···· --·-·-··-·-- 296

505
Page

L
Legislation Proposed
Abolbhing Library Committee
25
Resolution Introduced ................................. _......................................................... 182
~eport of Library Committee..................................................................,_.___.
eport of Committee on Polic:y................_........................;............_.., ..... , ,, • 257
Report of Committee on ~prudence.................................. ·-··---~ 297

~~ tn1~C:~dt -~-~----~~~-~-~---·························. ····················-······-··-··· 22
Alff;~j~~
Report of Committee on Polic:y.....................................:..•••- ••· · · - · - - · - - 272

Report of Committee on Jurisprudence................................- ...............___.._ 274
Apron Presentation Ritual
20
Resolution Introduced ..................................................................................·-·-···· 264
Report of Committee on Polic:y......................- ....................................· .......:-..,A
Club House at University of Hawaii ·
Resolution Introduced ··········-····························.................................................... 18
Resolution Withdraw n .......................- ............................................................ ~... 19
Conftrmlng In Masonic Homes Legal Title to Endowment Fund
Resolution Introduced ...................................................................................-....... 26
Report of Committee on Pollc:y............................- .................. _...................._.....,. 258
294
Report of Committee on Jurilprudence................................................................
'
Contributions to Loc:a1 Charities
-. 18
Resolution Introduced .... - ..................................................................................
_. _ _ _ 269
Repor.t of Committee on Polic:y........................................._.: ••.•i ••••••••.••••
'
Donations for Public School Protection
Resolution Introduced............................................................................................ 17
Report of Committee on ~..................................·-······-·············-··•··•"I<-... 264
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence................................................................ 303
Dues in Research Lodges
··-·····--·· -·-- 60
Recommendation of Grand Master............!.......: ...........- --········-·
Report of Committee on Pollc:y................................. ......................- ............... 259
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence...................................................:............ 260
·
Expenditure of Lodge Funds
-··-·-··~--.7.1. 74
Recommendation of Grand Maater...............-······--·········--····
Report of Committee on '?oiky..•.•- .•.•••... _•.•••.•.•.•••-...............:............;.........2S9, 260
Report of Committee on Jurtsprudence.......................--..............................260, 297
Extension of 'nme for Constituting Lodges
Proposal of Grand Master...................................................................................... 76
~-···········•·············-··-··--·······················-······-··-··· 260
Report of Committee on
Report of Committee on Jurtaprudenoe-............................................:.................. 292
Lifting Ban Against Saloonkee pen
Resolution Introduced ........... _............................................................................... 27
Resolution Withdraw n ...............................................................................·-········ 27
Method of Balloting
Resolution Introduced ............:..........................................................- ................_ 23
.,_,._ 265
Report of Committee on Pollc:y.••...••..••.•....•..-·-··--···..- -.........
Unftnished Business ....................................................................................-~-· 265
Prayer Before Balloting
Resolution Introduced ...................................................................................,........ 19
265
Report of Committee on Polic:y..............................·-·-·····•-···--····--;n.,:T'l'rl'
•
Publications
Recommendation on Section 749(a) •.•.•••.••••.•.•..•• - .......- .........._ •• _ ....,•.....,,..; 172
Action of Grand Lodge................................................................- ......................, 319
Repealing Ten Mile Rule
Resolution Introduced .........................................................................-................. 24
Resolution Withdraw n .......................................................................................... 24
Reprimand of Member
Resolution Introduced ···································································-·····-················ 28
Report of Committee on Jurlsprudenc:e............................ _...................;..... _...... 28

506

INDEX

INDEX

Paae
Request of Tehachapi Lodge for Assistance
Resolution Introduced ·····-···················-······················-········································ 25
Resolution Withdrawn .....•.......................•.......•.....•.........•.........•..•.....••...........•.... 25
Spanish Language Lodges
Resolution Introduced ·····-····················································-······-······-········--··· 25
Report of Committee on Policy ································•·····-···········-···················· 261
Special Communication Call
Resolution Introduced ·······················································································-··· 22
Proposal of Grand Muter....•.•...............·-···-·····-··~···················-·-····-·····-······· 76
Report of Committee on Policy•••.•...... _•.:•...••...••.•.........·-····-·--·······-·········-··· 263
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence..........•..-·······-···········--···············-····· 299
.
Subversives Ineligible
Resolution Introduced····························································-·····-······-··. . ···..,···· 21
Grand Master'1 Dedaloa.....-·····················-································•··-················-··· 83
Report of Committee on Policy....•......•...•....•.....•.•........•.......•••-····-····•······-······· 274
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence..•.••..•.•...•.•••..••-·····-············..·····-··--•"• 292
Library Committee
Grand Master's Recommendation...........- ...........................•.•...•.•...•..••..•..,.,.,............. 75
Legislation Proposed --·-·····················-········-·······--··-----········-···•·······...25, 183
Report of Committee.•.•.;.....-················-····-············-······-·-·-····.-······-·-······-··· 182
Report of Jurisprudence Committee•............••...•.......•••••.•...........••~ .............. -··-····• 297
Life Membership Resolutions
Grand Secretary's Report on.......................................................·-·········-·········-··· 41
Approval of -·········-···············································································-··············· 292
List of Constituent Lodgea... ••-············-····-····················-·--······ ··...-·-·······-····-···· 462

Lif;~:i~al List····-····-··································································-······················· 491

~~~r:,~~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :~~

Lodge Financing, Report of Committee.... _..............·.................-·········--··..····"•···-·- 184
Lodge Funds
(See. Expenditures from Lodge Funds)
(See Investment of Lodge Funds)
Lodges
Alphabetical List ·-·-····-···········'"···-··············---···-·--········--·m-""-··'-·····--···· 491
New Lodges Coastituted..........................................-·-······--····----············.,····-· 59

~~:e!i:PI.1!~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~~
M

Martin, Dr. Wlllsie Manning, Necrology Report. .....•.............•..-:.......................... 222
Masonic Club House Reports..............................................·-············-·········--············-· 257
Masonic Homes
Audit Report ...............•.........•...........................•..........•......•....................................•. 353
Report of Superintendent--Covina............................................................................ 108
Report of Superintenden~Decoto............................................................................ 105
Report of Trustees•.....·-······-····················-···················-··-·········-··-·············-······ 102
Statistics on Realdenta and Coats....................................·-·-·····-··-·········-······-··· 397
Masonic Homu Endowment Board
Contributions through Lodga............................-················-··-·····-·-··-···········-··· 369
Honor Roll .................................................................................................................. 118
Members and Officers, 1952-53...........................................................-.................... 114
Members, 195l--Sf ...................................................................................................... 418
Memorial Conbibuttons Listed.........................................................................-.;...·.•• 117
Memorials Jn Lieu of Plowera...........................................- ..----····-·-·····-- 297
Report of Boanl........................................- ................. - ..····-·--·--····-·--··- 114
·-·····················-·-······~--·--·.. 116
Gifts·······-····-·················•··········
Testamentary
·
Masonic Informatica
Repc)rt _of Committee..................................- ......._ ...,......................__..............,...- 195

507

Page
M Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.......................................... 275
asonic Patriots Listed.................................................................................................. 249
Masonic Temple Association Report. ........................................................................... 311
athewson, He~ George; Neaology Report.......................................................... 226
M elim, Alvin E.. ecrology Repcrt. .......................0 •••••••••••••••••••••• -........................... 223
M::::~ ¥::~~= c;;;itt;;················-........................................................................ 218

tf

(See California Muonlc Memorial Temple)

~4~~~~~~~~~t~:~:3.10.~~~~~~~~ ~
:~~~~~~~~1l~f.~~ j
~?~~~~I4~~~¥
:o.
on erence of Grand Maaters.............................................................................. .... 66
Constitution of New Loclgea...........- ...................................................................:.... 76

~oresJ Lodge

66.......;............................- ............._ ..........-·····-··-··········-·····..·· 77

~~~~t~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.::::::::::::: ~~

Jurisprudence Committee Report ..............................................260, 290, 292, 297, 299

~l~~;~}~~¥~I~~~1i~~~~~~~~l:~~ ~

Polley and General Purposes Committee Report............257, 259, 260, 267, 270, 274
kuf licatlons ................................................................................................................ 73
Re erence to Segregation Committee.............................................. _....................... 87
S ese:f~Lodgea ........................................................................................................ 60
~ttona ••• ........................................................................................ 76
J'iec
er Grand Lodges.......................................................................... 66
Wsitk!OIJ.?
Mile~;e i:.,.,:pensation Insunince........................................................................ 69

tCo

~eh~": Qr rn11ee-......................- ............................................'.....- ........- ...... 208

c1

420
j o J!..Pa~ent;-··..······-·--...........................................................................
M a
ar es , ecro ~ Report.. ........................................................................ 225
Moore,
orrlson, Claude H.. P.G. ., Death of.................................................................... 323

N
~=~i:~~sReport of Coaunlttee...............................;...........,.......,,...... _.................... 218
&barters Issued····-·····-............................................................................................. 198
spensatlom Continued ··········-····-·········.................................__ ....................... 201
Grand Master's Report oa..._.................................................- ...-;..- ......... __ 62
N G~nd Secretary's Report of................................................... _ ..................-......... 37
um er of Residenta at liomea..............................................................................._.. 397

0
o:cers Appointed ........................................................................................................ 322
0 leers Elected ............................................................................................................ 321
Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of .......................................................................................................... 8

509

INDEX ·

INDEX

Page
Attending from Other J~ctlons...........................................,.............................. 16
Installed for 1953-54 Year.-......................................,.••..••• _........................Back Cover
Present at Communication....................................;••.•,.....-···-····-... ·-··-·-················ 1
Since Organization ··············································-···-···"'"··-············..····················,·· 477
Opening of 104th Communication. ..............................................................-............... 7
Oration of Loys T . Newton, Grand Orator...............•..... ¥·•·-····---······················ 142
· ·
'
·
Oversize Lodaa
Report of Commrttee-·--··--···-··-·-···-···········•····--···:..,:.,..,.::1,,••• - •.,·-··'-···--- 209
Report of Committee on Policy and General P~·······-···--·························· 277

Page
Publications

~eport of ~mmi~····································-···-··········-·····..··"·~---·:...................:... 168

Pubrpor

b" r~~-- aster............................- •••:...............................,a:..................... 73

Puhl~~ s~~~Weekarn,~~-;;~········--........................,.........---'~.................2SS, 279
~atel for 195.f...........................................:................_., __-_......:21/!!~................- .....: 162

R~':c:t11~:1Q,~tt;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::~:::::::::::::::::::: 1~g
R

p
,
Past Grand Masters
List of Since Organization..............................................,._..•.-.,. ..:.••. _.,... ___, 477
Messages to Ablenteea.•- ........................................................................- .....,....., 28
Present at Communication...........................................--······-················ ·········-··-··· 8
Visitors at Communication....:..........................................- ............................,.......... 16
Past Masters-Necrolo gy Report.; .........................................................- .......,.,..._. 239
Per Capita Cost of Homes Operations......•......•......•...•..•- ...- ...··-·-·~·---·-•_.,,., 397
Per Capita Tax-19S.f......................................................................................,......._, 319
Perine Endowment Fund Audlt..............................................,.._.............;__.1..,..,., 361
Plaul (Brazil), Grand Lodge of State of, Recognized. ....- ..................,..........,.....;_, 217
Policy and General Purposes, Committee Report
Advertising In Lodge Bulletins.................................................................................. 279
Apron Presentation Ritual.......................................................................................... 264
California Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation.............................................. 277
280
California Masonic Memorial Temple Title...................................,;,•.•- ..
267
Charters Committee ...................................,......................................................,
• 260
Constituting Lodges .-........·-···--·-··-·..............................- . ....,...,~.....,.,.....
Contributions to· Local Obaritles...................,..,.._............._.,,_ •.:..:.......;.,.........4.;:0' 269
Discussion of Public Questlona.....................................................................- ..-m,>, 264
Dues In Research Lodg_es..........:.......................- - . . . - · · · - -..-··-··-·-.-"-·· 259
Expenditure of Lodge Pund&.................................................................~·•··..-·--· 260
Extension of Time for Constituting Lodges. ..:.........................,...."Tfr•·.-··-·--..-··..-· 260
Financial Support of Public ScboOls......•....... __..,.,. ••.......,........... .J......., ••••- .....,....- 263
Grand Lod_ge Repreaentatives.............................____________.•.,...,..............._.... 267
Hawaiian Lodges ............................................................................. ,...,..................... 270
Library Committee .......................................................................-.,..........,............,. 257
Lodge Expenditures ...........................................................................,..- ..._............ 260
Mandatory Proficiency ...............................................................................- ...... ,. ..... 272
Masonic Information ....................................- ........,.,..•...- .............,........................ 275
Memorial Temple Contributions................................................................................ 262
Method oE Bal10ting.................-..................................,......................................._.. 265
Oversize Lodges ....................................../.';............................................................... 277
Prayer Before Balloting................................................,.............................- ...,.•;...... 265
Proficiency Certiftcatea Bxpense.............................................................................r 257
268
Pub!Jcatlona ...................:....................·-···-···--·····-·-··-··············.,··-······-•..261, 279
Public Liability Coverage.............................................................................. _.......
Public Schools Week Observance Expense............................................................. 257
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges...............................................:...•••.•.••..••2'1, 260
Research Lodges ...............................................:........................................................ 257
Research Lodges, Minimum Dues....................................................~ •...••...•......•..-.... 260
Returns Committee ................................................................. _ .........................:lS'T. 260
Revision of Ross Digeat..........................(.J. ...................,.~-······-·····-··-··-··-···257, 261
Sojourning Masons .................................................................................................... 266
Spanish Language Lodga..............................................:.......................,..,..,.----· 261
Spec:tal Communication Call...........:.......................................- •.,.,...... ~..-.~·t-·~-- 263
Subversives Ineligible ................................................................................................ 274
Title to Endowment Pund........................................~...........................:................~.. 258

,...-§.

Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Appointment of Committee.............................................................. .,.,••_,,_.............. 67
Committee......................................................................... :........................ 216
~eport
R eport o Committee on Policy and General Purposes.................................-..... 260
egistratlon and Mileage Paymenta................................................................_...',:..,:i- 420
Reports of Committees
:f'ard of Coatrol........-.............................................................,..-...,..,..·...........___.,.. 123
y-Laws .......................................................................................-:-.................,........ 179
'·- ta 319
.: .._
Ceremonies ••,......................................................... .,," .. 1I ,, " I , ill , .. ,:,
. ..., . .... •
Ch
~ 197
la Tem¥le ......................................................,................ --·~-+·····-·.,.._ 304
Co
mpensatlon murance .........................................~ ...............................,.••.,............. 255
gonstitution Month Obaervance.....................................................:.....;.•..,.-.........:....... 203
C od:1'ondence ................................................... _....................... .,..,..,................,....- ... 176

of

eo:ili5 .......................................................-.........,......_.___....................

t~~===~==-:::~::===:~:::::::::::::~::::::::~======== fil

c:,e1gn W d Lodgea..............................................................................""1-·-.. -·~·· 216
ashington Masonic National Memorial......................................:.......... 214
G . rge

M aso~c

omes Endowment Board .......................... - ..............;..~.~--·~--....:...._ 114

~~~~~:l~~~~~~:~~=:~~~~-~~~=-~~~~=-~~~~~~~ ill

eneral Purpoeea..........................................................,......._,..._•...,...,,,. 257
p~fY an
Pubucar~ :-·-··-·-····-----..........:........................................................................ _ ... 168

lhty Insurance.......................................................... _ _ ,___ ·. 255
.c
148
Kublic Schools Week Observance....................................................~............
RIeco~niti0n of Foreign Grand Lodges. ..........- .............................,....... _!...!:.~,. 216
tua .......................................................................................................................... 320
Ross Digest Rmaton................................................... .;. ...................:.:!.~L ....... ~ 177

.:;=

i;s~~~~~:~~~~~~:~~~~:.~~~~~~~:~~=~~~~:~~~~~ ~

Reports of Officers
Grand Lecturer ························································y···............................................. 54
Grand Secretary ........................................................................................................ 36
Grand Treasurer........................................................................................................ 29

511

INDEX

510

INDEX

Page

·-- 4208
··-···.........
·--.·-..........
-···--..........
~:~~eR~~~:J~~--················-··--····--··-·-·..........
ReK~!:
Roster of Attendance...................................... ."....................
··················· 208
························
································
Re~~~:~t~~vc~m~~:~~-····················
···-··-- -··· 420
--·-···
··-·-············--··-·······
nts.......................

Tabulation of Payme
Reserve for Additioaf 6 Replacementa
-·-·-·-·-~····················· 363
Audit -----··-·---·--·---··--·-·-·-··-··-·
·-··-·- ···-..-······· ········· --··-··· 398
··-·····
········
········
···-··--··-··
s -··-·-Contri
Fund Audits
e bution
Reserv
......................................... 363
Additions & Replacements.................................................
---·- ··-··· ·--··· 364
-··--·
·-··Unappropriated Reserve .............................,.........
·
Residents at Homes
······· ·--·-- ·---·· -··--- ·-··-· ·· 39 l
Covina :..--· --·--- -·-··· ·····- ·-··-- ······-····-··380
········ -····-·· --...-······- ····---· 397
···-···· ·-······
Decato --···~·-··-····-...·-··-···
-·-···· -···--· ··..·-····- -·---Statistics ................................·-··-·· -··-··· ··-··-· ·-·•-··
17
ted ----··--···----·--··--······-···-···-··~-··
Resolutions Presen
)
lation'
"Legis
also
(See
Returns, Committee on
...................................................... 75
Grand Master's Recommendation........................
.........................................'....... 297
..........
..........
e
rudenc
Jurisp
on
ittee
Report of Comm
........................................ 260
..........
..........
..........
..........
Policy
on
Report of Committee
·-·--· -··-·· -·- 327
Audited ........·-·--- ··-··- ----·..-·..-··--· ·--·-·
Returns of 1953
'
Ross Digest, Revfllao of
{See Commission on Revision of Digest)

s

Page
....
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
Title Page
·································· 5
Trial Procedures

··-···-····--··-·······-··-····-··········· 296
::~:: ~: ~=:rCor:u~~e·-··-·······
.....................................................................................253

Trial Records

············-···-·--··-·..·~=~:e~ c~=tts::e~···-···-··-··············-·-··········--···-···
·-···-···-·····-···-··-.. 44
282

Return of tourt Transc~A-;;~···d-······················
·································•··········• 301

Trustees of Masonic Homes p

ze ····················

t~:~~~~~. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : !i~
u

Unappropriated Reserve Pund...
·--···· --····- ···········-···· ·····-- ·······- ····-·- ········ ·- 364
Unfinished Business

......... 36

~r:e!~!2 1 ~~:OC:':"ti~~............_..........................................................

.................. 279
~=~~~ ~ilii0Im:an ce.............................................._....................
202
····-··· -····-·· ··-····· -·····-· ··-···-·

-·--·· -····- -··-·- ·--

··-·

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Method o~::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::
v
T rial P

ge
ed

•

Veteran Buttons Presented..
47
·--········-··-··-·-··---von Konsky, Walte r Hans :E;;i··N;~;;;k;·····i
gy eport.••••••••••••••••••••••••• _, ___······-·· ···- 219

..-····--·-·

Securities Held
335
····- ·-..-······• ······-· -··-···· ···-..······-...,..... 346
Grand Lodge --·-- ··--- --·..-·---··-·-·
-..-··-··- ······-- -··-···
·····-··
-..
-·····
·-··-·
--····
---·Fund
Endowment
·····-·· -··-··..·······- -··--·· ·· 357
Masonic Homes ---·--- ·-··-·· --····· ··-··-· ···-···· ·-···-·

87
-·--------..---·
·-··-----·-··-·
···-··-·---·--·
~·····-···-·-··
.
.
;;~~:..-··-·
ser;::::
125
·---·-----·-·
··--·
t of ····- ---·-

Repor
ns of Communication
Sessio
. 7
·····-·····-··-······-·····-··-·-··-·--···-·•
Monday Morning -····-······-··-·~·--·-·····-··- ···-- ····-- ----- ----- -- 28
Monday Afternoon ·····- -···- ······ ··-······-·
128
·--- --·- ---· - - - 142
·--- ·--· ·····
Tuesday Morning ---- - ·.- - - · · - ·
Tuesday A f t e r n o o n - - - · - - - - - · ·-··- ·--- ---· -·-- -··-· ·-··- ··-- 203
Wednesday_ Morning _
·-"-··-··--·----·-··-·-·"·-·-·····~ 248
·-····
·-····
--··-·
orning
Thursday ·M
- - - - - 269
···-··- ······-- -.
········
··-····.
--····
oon
Thursday_ A~ern
- - - - 300
·
·
·
·
·
-·-..
·-··-··-·-Friday Morning ---·---- -··- 323
·
·
·
·
·
·
Friday Afternoon
206
- - - - - 325
·
.
..........
..........
..........
........
..........
Special Appendix _
··-·---·--·----·-·---- -t15
Special Committees~-----·-·-----···-·--···-t12
··-... -·--- ·-·-- ·-· ·
-----·--·.
..........
..........
Standing Committees
217
--··-·-··
···-····-·--·-··
•..
nized..
Recog
Lodge
State of Piaul (Brazil) Grand
Fund
rship
Students Loan and Schola
··--- -·--- ··-·· --..- 362
Audit ......................- ...........-•-·- ···-- ·-·-· ···-·

Sok~~f Ccmml~----···--··-·····-·········-····-··-··-··-··-·--·-..,-·-·-··-

T
··--·· ·-···- ··---- -· 309

······- ··-··Taxation, Committee Repor t. .•·-·--· ··--·· ··-···
-- 28
___....;__·-·-· ··-·· -·--· ·-··· ·--·- ··--- -·-··
Telegrams 321
··----···-··
-·-·.
--·-.
--·······-···
Tellers Appointed ---·· ····-

w
Wadleigh Fund .&udit..................·-·······-······-···-················-······-······-············-·····..•• 362

. . . . ece
. . . . lldapf
. . . . . .-PJ'O
. . . . .··-·-··-. . . . .-··----·
. . . . . ....-·····--·
. . . . . ·-··-··. . . . .····-··. . . . .·······. . . . .·---··. . . . .__-·.5;;;;;;

Warre n, Arthur M., Grand Master

~:::hy

1

White H~se
·-·-··- ·- 281
··-······ ········· ··-···-· ···-· -·-··- ·-····- ·-····- ·-····· --··-·
Workmen's Compensation Insurance...- ..........
............... _ ....•...- .•·-···-----..26, 69, 255

