ARTHUR PAULSEN
Grand Master

ARTHUR PAULSEN

Grand Master
19'50 - 1951

In 1885 Grand Lodge, in selecting its Grand Master, chose Brother
Wiley James Tinnin from the little town of Weaverville in Trinity
County. It could not be foreseen at that time that sixty-five years would
elapse before another member of Trinity Lodge No. 27 was chosen to
occupy the highest office within the gift .of the Masons of California.
Such, however, was the case, and on October 13, 1950, Right Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, Deputy Grand Master, was elected Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge and for the succeeding twelve months was received
throughout the jurisdiction as Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, Grand
Master of Masons in California. If the delay of sixty-five years was to
be sure of having a distinguished brother from Trinity Lodge of whom
the entire state could be proud, the time spent in waiting was well spent.
Arthur Paulsen was born in Weaverville May 4, 1890, the son of
Peter M. and Barbara Paulsen, California pioneers of Gold Rush days.
Peter Paulsen engaged not only in mining, the common pursuit of the
day, but also in the hotel business in Weaverville.
Arthur Paulsen and Jennie Skinner were married in Sacramento
October 21, 1919 and to them was born a daughter, Gloria Evelyn, now
Mrs. Gloria Yarbrough. Gloria made the Grand Lodge Week an exciting and anxious one for her father and mother with the expectation of
their first grandchild and almost simultaneously with the closing of
Grand Lodge on Friday, October 12, came the news of the birth of a
grandson, Michael Lee.
Arthur Paulsen received his early education in Weaverville, and
was admitted to the practice of law in California March 12, 191 7.
Elected to the office of District Attorney of Trinity County in.January
1923, he filled the post with distinction. He became a judge of the
Superior Court of Trinity County in January 1933, a position in which
he has distinguished himself. Judge Paulsen is recognized by his colleagues as being possessed of a very fine legal mind, and much of his'
time is spent away from w eaverville holding court in various parts of
the state at the request and direction of the State Judicial Council.
Responding to the call of his country in 1917, he enlisted in World
War I, and served in the 1Hth Field Artillery in France.
His Masonic career has been one of service to Trinity Lodge No. 27,
where he was raised August 2, 1913, and to the Grand Lodge of California. His first position in Trinity Lodge No. 27 was that of Senior
Deacon and he became Master in 1924. He was appointed Junior Grand
Deacon of the Grand Lodge in 1941 and in 1943 very capably filled the

office of Grand Orator. He served as a member of the Committee on
Charters, the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Special Committee on
the Masonic Homes, and the Special Committee on Masonic Homes
Admissions. In 1947 he was elected the Junior Grand Warden of Grand
Lodge, and served successively as Senior Grand Warden, and Deputy
Grand Master until his election as Grand Master in 1950.
Judge Paulsen is a member of Royal Arch Masons, serving as High
Priest of Trinity Chapter, later consolidat ed with Shasta Chapter .
No. 19.
As might be expected of a judge and an outstandin g citizen of his
own county, Arthur Paulsen has been identified with all worthwhi le
public services including the Red Cross, Tuberculo sis Association, the
Boy Scouts, and crippled children's organizati ons. Hfa other member.ships include the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the
Order of Odd Fellows, and the Native Sons of the Golden West. With
all his activity, he still found the time to serve on the Board of Trustees
of Trinity Congrega tional Church in Weavervi lle.
It has been well said that "It is the lot of many to rule: to rule well
is the fortune of but few" and no better single descriptive phrase could
be chosen for the term of Grand Master Paulsen. When it was necessary
to rule, he ruled well, with firmness and impartiality. Perhaps it was the
fact that he lived in a remote, mountainous county, far removed from the
stress and strain of city life, that gave him such clear objective thinking
on the problems of the Grand Lodge, but whatever it was, the depth of
his understan ding was matched only by his sincerity in applying the
principles of Freemaso nry to the situations which confronted him. He
will long be respected for meeting and talking with the brethren "on the
level" and he will likewise be well remembered for his intense interest in
a new program of Masonic education.
As time adds luster to the names of men who build well in organizations, the name of Arthur Paulsen will stand out in the long list of men
who have served the Grand Lodge of California during the past one
hundred years.

"rauh fjnhgt nf C!!alifnruia
I, LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M . · . W . · . G ran d
Lodge o f F.ree and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby. certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcnpt of the .pro~eedings of that body at its one-hundr ed second
Annual Commumcatton, commenced at the city of San Francisco , on
Monday, the 8th day of October, A. L. 5951, and terminated on Frida
y,
the 12th day of October, A. L. 5951.

Jiu liJt.atimnuu IfIJrrtnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M:.W:.G rand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this thirty-firs t day of
October, in the year of Light,
five thousand nine hundred and
8fty-one.

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M. ·. W. •• GRAND LODGE
of

1Jfrrt nnh !\rrtptth tlasnns
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
ATITS

102nd ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Monday,·October 8, A. D. 1951, A. L. 5951
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 12, A. D. 1951, A. L 5951

7

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ONE-HUNDRED SECOND ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One~Hundred Second Annual
Communication in the Masonic Temple. Van Ness and Oak Street, -San
Francisco, on Monday, October 8, A. L. 5951, at 10:00 A. M.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
OFFICERS OP THE GRAND LODGE
M.'.W.'.ARTHUR PAULSBN..................................................Grand Master
R.'.W.'.Loms C. DRAPBAU •••.•.••••••..••••.••••••••••.•••.••Deputy Grand Master
R. •• W. ·.ARTHUR M. WARREN...••.•..•.••...•••..••••.••..Senior Grand Warden
R.'.W.'.FRANK HARWELL, JR..................... .........Juniot Grand
V.'.W.'.FRANCIS V. KEESLING, P.G.M •..••..•••...•.•••.••.•Grand

Warden

Treasurer

v : .W.'.LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M••••••••••••..•.••..••.••••••••Grand Secretary
v:.W.'.WALTER H. E. VONKONSKY••....•••••••••.••••••••••••••Grand Lecturer
V.'.REVEREND C. B. SYLVESTER...•.••••.••••••••••••••.••.•••.Grand Chaplain
W.'.CLARE B. CAMPBELL............................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.MERVYN E. HANSHAW••• - ................-.Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.ELBERT W. DAVIS............................... .Assistant Grand Lecturer ·
W.'.RAYMOND G. TAYLOR ....••..••..•.••••••••.•. .Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.GUY

B. MizE ......................................Assistant Grand Lecturer

W.'.AuGUSTUS H. ALLEN................... ..., •• .Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.EDWARD H. RoWINS................................................Grand Orator ·
W. ·.PAUL A. PPLUEGER..........................Assistant Grand Treasurer
W.'.HENRY D. 0LIPHANT..•...••.•.....•..•••...Assistant Grand Secretary
W. ·.ARTHUR H . TRIGGS•••••....•.•.••••.••••..•••••••-·······-····Grand Marshal
W.'.EARL J. SAXON••••.••.•....•.•••••....••.••••..•..••••Grand Standard Bearer
W. ' .JoHN H. FERGUSON••••••••••.....••.•••-····-·······Grand Sword Bearer
W.'.GEORGE A. FR!NCH ......................................Grand Bible Bearer
W. ·.THOMAS CoPELAND..................................Senior Grand Deacon
W.'.HAROLD J. Coox•••••••••••••••.•••••••••••••••••••- •••Junior Grand Deacon

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9·

w:.J. J. JACKSON.........................................~. .Senior Grand Steward

w: .GILBERT R. MoRRIS..................................Junior Grand Steward
W. ·.EDWARD T. KoPORD---··-···--·················-··-····-·-Grand Pursuivant
W. ·.CHARLES E. ANDERSON----······-···-··-···-··-·······-··-·Granc.l Organist
W. ·.ALVIN A. HoRWEGE.---·-····-·························..····---·-··Grand Tiler
PAST GRAND MASTERS 11
M:.w:.OscAR LAWLER
M:.w:.FRANc1s v. KEESLING
M:.w:.CHAs. ALBERT ADAMS
M:.w:.ARTHUR s. CRITES
M:.w:.GEoRGE L. JoNEs
M:.w:.W1LL H. F1sCHER
M.'.W.".CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
M:.w:.EARL WARREN
M:.w:.RoLLIE w. M1LLER
M.".W.".LEON 0. WHITSELL
M:.w:.LLoYD E. W1LsoN
M:.W.".LEsLIE E. Woon
M.' .w: .CLAUDE H. MORRISON
M.".W.".GILBERT c. DE FOREST
M.".W.".ARTHUR w. BROUILLET
M:.w:.JoHN R. MooRE
M.".W.".CHESTER H. WARLOW

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES
That We May Live Effectively
Very Reverend C. B. SYLVESTER, Grand Chaplain
For the sake of a good beginning, may I refer you to a directive
handed down by Jehovah to Jeremiah-the greatest of the Hebrew
prophets:
"Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and ... seek
in the broad places thereof, if ye can find a man" (v.l ).
Since history began there has never been a dearth of men. They
have swarmed forth over the face of the earth, fighting their battles and
winning their wars; building their cities and civilizations; developing
their commerce on land and sea; and multiplying their numbers at a prodigious pace.
At the very hour in which God summoned the prophet to his important quest, there were more men on the earth than at any other previous time in history. Why, then, was this behest wrapped up in terms
so tense and urgent? Men were everywhere-help yourself!
The irony of it all is that there has never been enough men amply
equipped with moral power to do the world's finest work. Great ideals
do not march to their consummation with only a token support. "Too
Uttle and too late" is the sorry spawn of incompetency and unconcern.
However, the scarcity of men does not dispose of their necessity.
Society. after all, is but the extension of individual life, and every institution "is but the lengthened shadow of a man." It is not possible to
build a golden state out of leaden statesmen. When society pays its
homage to the cult of mediocrity, and our institutions fall into the hands
of second and third rate men, the nation heads in toward moral paralysis.
Out of a long list of traditional moral qualities, I have selected three
--old as Eden and as up-to-date as this morning's sunrise-for our consideration at this hour.

M:.w:.EDwARD H. SrnMs

I.

M:.w:.ELLswoRT H MEYER

THE TIMES CALL FOR MEN OF CONVICTION

1 877 officers and representatives from 572 Chartered Lodges and
four 'Lodges under dispensation were reported as present, and. the M?st
Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, following which
the Flag of our Country was received.
• Those Past Grand Masters who arrived subsequent to the Roll Call are included
in the above list for convenience of reference

One day when Heine was standing in front of the cathedral of
Amiens, a young man standing near ventured to ask him why such
cathedrals are no longer built. The great one replied, "It takes convictions to build cathedrals like that." By that same token convictions must
be mixed with the rising walls of any temple where the soul of man
makes its home.

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

There are certain popular substitut es which we may as well ~isl:'°se
of once for all. Being short on convictions we are long on prejudices.
But a prejudice is not a conviction. Prejudic e has ~o eyes-it ~annot see.
It has on ears-it cannot hear. It has no brain-it cannot think. It has
no heart-it cannot love.
Our scorn of men because they are white, black. brown, or .yello:v';
because they are Christian . Jew or Turk, may not be the kind of insanity
that drives us to the mad-house; but it is an irrationa lity that breaks the
bonds of universal brotherh ood. and condemn s great. sectors o.f the
human family to live in ostracism and loneliness. Certainl y. that is not
conviction.
Our fortunes are not improved by the substitution of opinions for
convictions. Our America n "long suit" is the forming of judgmen ts without the facts-pr obably .the most unscientific thing we do. And we a.re
usually as far from the truth as the teach~r who insist.ed that the artist
who shaped the faces of the Egyptian Sphinxe s took his model from the
picture of George Washing ton.
But, somewhere, on a dateless day, in an hour of which many o~ us
are sometimes aware, groping amid alternati ves and asking question s
no one has ever answere d, a Star fell from the skies and lighte~ our
way to certainty and decision. Since then we have made no concession or
compromise. Right has been right and wrong ~as been wron.~. Some
things may be true in San Francisc o and false m New York. But the
rightness of right and the wrongne ss of wrong" are true in San Francisco, New York, Calcutta and Bombay. Wrong would be wro~g thou~h
it appear in Paradise . Right would be right though it make its bed i~
Perdition . A lie is the black thing that God has always hated, though .it
fall from the lips of an angel. Truth, though spoken by the devil.
still wears the livery of ineffable splendor .
Prejudic e is poison ivy.
Opinions are autumn leaves that flutter before every wind.
Convictions are the bloom of the Century plant - rare, regal in
beauty, and self-cont ained.
Of course you are intereste d to know just how far this thing I have
been emphasizing will carry one. My answer to the query may be found
in a bit of biograph y.
The Rev. R. B. Palmore achieved a place of distinction as a ~eader in
a great religious denomination of America, and closed his ~u?hc career
as editor of a powerfu l religious journal. Long after the Civil yY ar he
found among his father's papers, a deed to 5,883 acres of ~and. m West
· Virgini a-the only heir to the property . Putting the deed m his pocket,
young Palmore drove out from Charlest own, West Virginia , lo~a.ted thde
estate traced its boundari es and found that hundred s of families ha
moved in, built their humble homes, and were living serenely in a sense

of security. Flowers were planted, trees were growing, gardens were
cultivated, and home life was orderly and frugal. Great lawyers were
ready to inaugura te proceedi ngs which would have dispossessed the
settlers and made the legal owner a millionaire. In reporting this episode the New York Sun said that after prayer and sleepless hours, a
great "conviction" laid hold of young Palmore to the effect that social
concern was vastly more importan t than his personal fortune, and obedient to "the heavenly vision" he consumm ated his decision to leave the
settlers in quiet possession of his estate by executing deeds of conveyance to every family on the plantatio n.
How far will Convicti on carry one? Well, all the way to destiny and that may be as far as any of us wish to go.

10

11

II.
THE TIMES CALL FOR MEN OF CHARAC TER

And unless we set ourselve s to search diligently for such men, as•
sign them to great public trusts when we have found them, and support
them when the minions of indecenc y attack them, we may expect social
corruption to spread until the underwo rld advance s to the seats of
power.
The sorry circumstance of our day is that public characte r, from the
administration of governm ent down to the smallest political unit, has
progressively deteriora ted to the lowest level since the Civil War.
Men in high places have given and taken bribes, officials have loot~
the public treasury, gangster ism has enjoyed political hospitality, the
multitudes pass by unconcerned, and the looters are still out of jail.
Accordin g to Senator Fulbrigh t, this corrosion has swept beyond
the boundar y line of politics and has begun its work in our- areas of
education. In a speech before the Senate in April of this year, Senator
Fulbrigh t said, among other things, "let us consider what has developed
in our colleges where characte rs of our young men and women are
being molded. Our colleges, under extreme pressure from the alumni.
have become so intent upon winning football and basketba ll games that
they use any means to gain their ends. They make a mockery of the
whole concept of amateur sport. They corrupt not only the hired players,
but also the entire student body who learn from their elders, the cynical,
immoral doctrine that one must win at all costs!"
The great controve rsy in our America is not "Commu nism vs. Capi·
talism;" it is "Moral Rearmam ent vs. Immoral Decay."
When Theodor e Roosevelt entered the White House, Septemb er_14,
1901, he found a scandal in the Post Office Departm ent which stemmed
from the presiden cy of Rutherfo rd B. Hayes. By 1903 he had indicted,

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

t Roosevelt, the Grea t,
or dismissed, from office every guiJty man. Wha
s hat: "A dull public
man'
every
in
d
said at that time, shoul d be paste
ption , infallibly mean
conscience, an easy going acquiescence in corru
in the end means the
debas emen t in public life, and such debas emen t
will tarry long in the
ruin of free institutions. Freed om is not a gift that
nesty in their public
disho
te
hand s . . . of those so foolish as to tolera
serva nts."
ibal was great er
The historian tells us "ther e was a time when Hann
the magnificent
But
.
Rome
than
er
than Caes ar and Carth age was great
witho ut while
ers
invad
the
tand
withs
not
city with its triple walls could
withi n."
sin and prodi gality were holding high carni val
onwe alth is the moral
Comm
our
e
befor
The most impo rtant task now
reinv estme nt of chara cter.

I .
d
I was expecting to see an institution after a
sty e-:--imposing build~
ing, ornat e furniture, and the last wo d . gra~
equip ment . My dis- .
illusionment was complete: Halst ead Srtr m mo ern
I .,JJt prove d to be the rende zvou s
of every thing that creep s and c
o~en went abou t in dayti me,
s.
·1
unescorted, at their own
sugg~sted a beast of
burde n that had carrie d i~e~u~de et ho~se its~~
chair s were uninv itde
k
ony.
flo
ing, the walls were somb re and t~e
day their age.
every
e
loo
oors
t
Well
el
And this was Hull Hous ·
• no exact y.
·
·t d f1
The total Hull Hous e cons1s
e do da~ge playrooms, class es in many
kinds of arts and craft s
e and hu d d
• a pure an ra iant atmoj spher
k' d
f
n r~ s
t t •fl d
hhold
thres
the
ed
cross
daily
who
m
every
~
thing
some
t
h~ar
ona~:
passi
a
of
tions
pulsa
bke home. and to feel the

12

T;;'

she

III.
THE TIME S CALL FOR MEN OF COMP

ASSIO N

es that compas~
And we must write it down in rememberable phras
ss itself to our
addre
must
and
soul
sion is an individualistic mood of the
way.
nal
fellow-men in a very perso
tor Char les SumHarri et Beecher Stow e once wrote a letter to Sena
in her neigh~
man
y
need
very
a
of
relief
ner. urgin g him to come to the
with affairs of state to
borhood. In reply Sumn er said, "I am too busy
received the letter she
give any time to indiv idual s." Whe n Mrs. Stow e
from Jesus had not
heard
appe nded the following footnote: "Wh en last
yet reach ed this point ."
who, regar dless of
.T here are thous ands of men in this great world ,
the Grea t-Hea rt
for
ons
horiz
their statio n in life, look longingly to the
who never comes.
lled. Dispo ssess ed,
I have met them on every trail I have ever trave
-vast solitu des of
stood
nder
misu
dislocated, mis-m ated, mala djust ed,
-the night grow s
fen"
and
moor
"o'er
the soul. For such, the trail is
dark and there is no hope beyond.
it is of the essen ce
Rega rdles s of who, or what , or wher e, they are,
of Maso nry to believe
"Tha t in all ages every huma n heart is huma n
"Tha t in even savag e bosoms there are yearn ings.
longi ngs, strivings
"For the good they comp rehen d not,
"Tha t the feeble hand s and helpless may be lifted
up and stren gthen ed."
aphy , if you please.
Whe re will all this take us? Aga in-a bit of biogr
in Chica go, deA few years ago, my wife and I. havin g a few hours
ead Stree t.
Halst
e on
cided to visit Jane Adda ms' far-fa med Hull Hous

13

~i:dn!~n: !~~~:st:~~~es~:f:e lines which I treasure much, in which
"The re is a river the stream wh~re~f
Make s glad the city of God·
I've gone throu gh death to ftnd that place
'
And all throu gh heave n I've trod.
"Now , heave n's a wide and a wond erful place
•
But the people are much as we;
,
thirst
and
w
sorro
So, I came back home in
And there one said to me:
"O fool! ;you' ve trave lled far to find
Wha t yo_u've crossed over time and again ;
For the river of God is in Halst ead Stree t
And is runni ng black with men.
"Perh aps Chic ago's the City of God " sa1'd 1,
"Perhaps, " said he; "but to find that ,place
You need no wing s to By,
But eyes to see."
"And low in the rushe s the river sings,
And swee t is its spirit 's lure,
As it water s the joys of living and l~ving
•
That grow in the heart s of the poor.
"So, I took me a place in the city's slums,
Whe re the river runs night and day;
And there I sit 'neat h the tree of life
And teach the child ren to play.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"And ever I soil my hands in the river,
And ever it cleanses my soul;
As I draw from the deeps with a silver cord,
And drink from a golden bowl.
"Where will compassslon take us? Well, it will
Take us out among the ranks who have no refuge;
To the "crowds without a compass;"
To the lives without a love: to the hearts without a home.
It may take us into the uttermost waste places
of earth's habitations,
But it will certainly bring us to our Father's house."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

15

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER
ARTHUR PAULSEN, Grand Master
My Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
Once again it becomes the d~ty of one who has been signally honored by the fraternity to give an account of his stewardship.
Fqr the world at large the year last past has been one of great uncertainty. Men have longed for peace while they prepared for war.
Years of struggle and deprivation have brought some to that state of
desperation that destroys even their will to resist enslavement. While
our own country and our state have enjoyed a sense of security not
possessed by the world at large, the constant threat of war and the demands of the preparedness program have directly or indirectly affected
our growth and the plans of many of our lodges.
On the whole, however, the past twelve months have been marked
by substantial numerical growth and real achievement. In spite of building restrictions and other limitations upon the normal activities of our
lodges and building assodations, new temples have been completed and
new lodges have been formed, and our membership has increased to well
over two hundred thousand. How well we have builded may be a matter
that only the future can determine, but we may be sure that if we remain
true to the guiding principles of this great institution and have the vision
and devotion to apply them to the problems of today and of the days to
come, ·we need not fear for the Masonry of tomorrow.
The past year has been an unusually busy one for the ceremonial
officers of thfs Grand Lodge. In fact, so many demands were made upon
our time and upon the expense allowances of all officers that it became
necessary to curtail attendance at many special ceremonies in order that
we might stay within our ·budget. Whether or not it is desirable that all
officers attend all special communications of Grand Lodge, we have felt
that the budget should govern and have regulated our travel accordingly.
At the last Annual Communication the Centennial Spirit found expression in a liberal attitude toward applicants for Charters and nine
were issued, more than had been expected. It was our pleasure, therefore,
to constitute the following lodges:
Lake Tahoe Lodge No. 707, October 20, 1950
Westchester Lodge No. 703, November 3, 1950
Seafaring Lodge No. 708, November 4, 1950
Orinda Lodge No. 704, November 10, 1950
El Cerrito Lodge No. 705, November 11, 1950
Hunters Point Naval Lodge No. 706, November 17, 1950
Lorenzo Lodge No. 709, November 18, 1950
Rim of the World Lodge No. 711, November 24, 1950
Anacapa Lodge No. 710, November 25, 1950
As we look back upon these ceremonies and view the accomplish-

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ments of these new lodges and observe the boundless enthusiasm of
their officers, we need have no fear for their future. Without exception,
they will stand as enduring blocks in the temple of California Masonry.
Last October the Grand Master reported that he had been privileged
to lay an unusual number of cornerstones of Masonic Temples. At that
time it appeared that we were destined to start construction of a large
number of new temples. The demands of the preparedness program,
with the consequent restriction of building of this kind, made this impossible. But notwithstandin g the great difficulties encountered by our
brethren in matters of finance, in securing proper materials and in obtaining skilled labor, your Grand Officers were called upon to dedicate
the following temples:
Garden Grove Temple, January 6, 1951
Temple City Temple, March 24, 1951
San Gabriel Temple, June 23, 1951
Foothill Temple, July 28, 1951
Northeast Temple, August 11, 1951
North Hollywood Temple, September 8, 1951
Colusa Temple, September 22, 1951
One of the most delightful ceremonies of the year was that in which
we re-dedicated the old temple at Benicia. This was the first Masonic
Hall ever constructed in California.You will recall that this had been lost
to the craft and had been used for many years for C'!mmercial purposes.
A movement was started to re-purchase it and failing in an effort to
secure the aid of Grand Lodge, the brethren of the Benicia area raised
the fund themselves, purchased and rehabilitated the old structure and
restored it to its original form, where it now stands as one of our most
important Masonic shrines.
In this connection you may be interested in knowing that our brethren
of Western Star Lodge No. 2 at Shasta are busily engaged in their plans
for the future. The old lodge building which was constructed in 1853
and which has a vault provided by Grand Lodge, must remain and be
preserved as a shrine to pioneer Masonry, but it is now too small for
present day demands. About fifteen hundred dollars has been raised to
purchase the lot adjacent to the old site and it is hoped that before too .
long additional quarters will be available.
These building programs will always stand out in my memory .as
among the most inspiring achievements of modern Masonry. In most mstances, nearly all the construction work of these new temples has been
performed by the brethren of the lodge and stand as perpetual monuments to their skill as both operative and speculative members of the
craft. In some instances, costly equipment and materials have been donated not only by members of the lodges, but as well by sojourners,
relatives of deceased Masons, and even by persons not connected with
the fraternity-a tribute to the splendid public relations that exist in
such localities.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

17

Few cornerstones could be laid this year, but some lodges overcame
the great obstacles to construction and, in addition to those laid by
others, we were pleased to officiate at one for the Colusa Masonic Temple, one for the Bellflower Masonic Temple and one for the New City
Hall in Ventura. It was also our pleasure to lay the cornerstone of a new
Methodist Church at Roseville. I realize that some questions have been
raised at times concerning the propriety of this, but I call the attention
of the craft to the fact that such churches are public buildings; that similar ceremonies have been performed in this Jurisdiction and many times
in sister ~rand Jurisdictions. It also appeared to me to be a splendid
opportumty to cement the cordial relations that have existed between
Masonry and these churches, and I assure you that our work was greatly
appreciated.
·
Among the pleasant duties that fall to the lot of a Grand Master is
that of presenting fifty-year emblems. Wherever possible I availed
mysel~ of this privilege and I was particularly happy to make this presentation to Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites on March 30th, to
Past Grand Master George L. Jones on April 5th, and to Past Grand
Master Charles Albert Adams on June 3rd.
NEW LODGES

Recognizing the great need in certain parts of the state for new
lodges, I announced at the beginning of the year that if the proper
groups were formed in such localities, upon a proper showing dispensations would not be too difficult to secure. Yet only four such lodges have
been instituted this year, as follows:
Los Altos Lodge, February 28th
Castro Valley Lodge, May 19th
Blue Lakes Lodge, June 16th
Magnolia Park Lodge, July 2nd
The fact that there were no more requests for such dispensations
was due largely to the great difficulty of securing accommodations. Due
to the great demands now being made by our lodges and other groups
sponsored by Masons or members of their family upon our temple
facilities, it is almost impossible for a new lodge to secure quarters unless
it is adequately financed in advance or can build its own temple immediately. While our Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing has
been most helpful in trying to solve this perplexing problem, there can
be no question but that scarcity of accommodations is delaying the
formation of many much needed new lodges.
DIVISION OF LABORS

After consultation with my predecessors in this office, it seemed
obvious to me that if a Grand Master was to give sufficient attention
!<> the many and diverse problems which arise in the course of his year
JD office, in addition to the ever present problem of earning a livelihood,

19

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it would be necessary, insofar as legal and practicable, to divide some
of the labors among the Deputy Grand Master and the two Grand
Wardens.
·
To this end I assigned to the Deputy Grand Master the duty of pass·
ing on all requests for amendments of by-laws, and to the Senior Grand
Warden the duty of passing on all matters concerning courtesy degrees.
In addition, the Grand Wardens have assumed the responsibility for the
preliminary arrangements for all special ceremonies. I am happ~ to
report that this delegation of authority to other officers has ma~erially
lightened the burdens of this office, but am also compelled to pomt out
that it is but a beginning.
With the large increase in the number of lodges and the tremendous
growth in our membership, it is becoming increasingly difficult for a
Grand Master to meet all the demands that are made upon him. Our
brethren of earlier days in England and the States of the Atlanti~ se~­
board could not visualize the problems of administration that arise m
such states as California and Texas. Administrative methods suitable
for those times and places have long been outmoded here and the time
has come when the members of the craft in this Grand Jurisdiction must
reconcile themselves to new divisions of labor among the principal
officers and be prepared to have the Deputy Grand Master, and perhaps
the Grand Wardens, take over some of the work of visitation.

lands and there enjoyed the hospitality and friendship of that group
noted throughout the Masonic world and elsewhere for their accomplishment in the field of entertainment and hospitality. I need not mention
here all the things that were done for my enjoyment. It is sufficient to
say that the glowing tributes paid to the brethren of the Islands by my
predecessors were none too lavish, and those brethren merit all the
compliments that have heretofore been bestowed upon them.
My visitations to the Island lodges convince me that the leadership
in that part of this Grand Jurisdiction is to be complimented for its
efficiency and devotion and we may all feel assured that the brethren of
these Island are in good hands and are performing a most valuable service for the fraternity in this outpost of California Masonry.
In accordance with established custom, it was my pleasure to attend
the Conference of Grand Masters held at Washington, D. C., and to
visit the George Washington Masonic National Memorial. The Deputy
Grand Master and the Grand Secretary accompanied me. The experience was both entertaining and instructive, for the contacts made there
with the leaders of other grand jurisdictions are invaluable in the handling of questions that arise in this great land of ours.
While in Washington I had the privilege of having as my dinner
guests the Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries of Washington, Idaho,
Oregon, Nevada and Arizona, as well as Past Grand Master Francisco
Delgado of the Philippines. Great as is the benefit to be derived from attendance upon the conference of all Grand Masters each year, we have
so much in common with the leaders of our neighboring jurisdictions that
I am strongl¥ of the opinion that periodically. they should assemble for a
conference on the important interjurisdictional problems of this part of
the United States. It was my hope upon assuming this office that I
would have the opportunity to promote such a conference this year, but
time did not permit it.
I paid-my first visit to the Grand Lodge of Nevada and greatly
enjoyed the fraternal spirit there. The Deputy Grand Master represented us at the Grand Lodge of Washington, the Senior Grand
Warden at the Grand Lodge of Oregon, and the Junior Grand Warden
at the Grand Lodge of Arizona, and the Grand Secretary at 'the Grand
Lodge of Idaho.

18

ENTERTAINMENT AND VISITATIONS

Probably no Grand Master has ever fully perfo~med th~ t_asks of. his
year according to the plans proposed in the beginning. This is certainly
true of me.
Obviously it is impossible for a Grand Master ~o vis.it all th.e lodges
of this great state, even though they may be combined. ~ meetin~s ~­
bracing several districts. While I had planned to visit the prm~ipal
centers of population and speak at the traditional breakfast meetings,
wherever it was necessary to make a choice, I felt that the pref~rence
should be given to those lodges or districts which had long gone w1th~~t
a visitation from a Grand Master, and to that end I prepared to visit
many remote areas, mountain and valley lodg~s theretofore passed by
in recent years. Even this could not .b e accomplished. I regret that I was
unable to visit many parts of the state.
It is unnecessary to recount the great number of miles traveled or
the means of reaching my destinations. Suffice it to say that wherever I
went I received from the brethren of that particular region the wholehearted, enthusiastic and sincere cooperation of all those wh.o .plann~d
the receptions, ceremonies or other events, and those who participated m
them.
HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

As usual. I paid official visits to all the lodges of the HawaUQ.t\ b·.

APPOINTMENTS

Except in a single instance, the members of the official family this
year have remained in service throughout the year, which is always a
matter of great comfort to the Grand Master.
The exception, however, was one of great concern and regret for it
took from our official family the valued services of one of California's
finest ritualists, a man who has served many years as a member of our
Ritual Committee, as Grand Master, and who in every way has estab-

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

lished his reputation in the fraternity and endear~d himself to the hearts
of all California Masons.
Only last month the Most Worshipf ul Gilbert C. DeForest notified
me of his desire to resign as Assistant Grand Lecturer, and with great
reluctance the same was accepted. On behalf of all the brethren of this
Grand Jurisdiction, especially those who over the years have worked
with him toward the perfection of our beautiful ritual. I wish to extend to
Brother DeForest our heartfelt thanks for the magnificent contributi on
he has made in this field of Masonic endeavor.
Upon the recommendation of the Grand Lecturer and Brother
DeForest, I appointed Worshipf ul Clare B. Campbell, Past Master of
North Butte Lodge No. 230 at Gridley and Inspector of the 116th
District, to succeed Brother DeForest as Assistant Grand Lecturer in
charge of Division I.
Owing to the ever increasing pressure upon Inspectors , the heavy
demands upon their time and talents, several of our most valued and
beloved Inspectors have found it necessary to resign or have been forced
to give up their assignmen ts because of changes in residence. To the~e
faithful brothers I wish to express the thanks of the brethren of this
Grand Lodge for the valuable services rendered, and to express the hope
that some of them may again return to work in the Masonic quarry.
The following have been appointed Inspectors , either to fill vacancies
due to resignation, or due to the formation of new districts:

willingly ~nd efficiently given. My every request was complied with.
The experience of working in an organizati on of this kind with men of
such character, is one that can never be forgotten and for which any
thanks I may offer can never be adequate.
From time to time, as. speci~l and difficult problems arose. I appointed
members of the craft to mvestlgat e and advise me. In most cases it was
not advisable to give publicity to such actions and I have not r~corded
them here. I wish, however, to express my great appreciati on to these
brethren for the splendid service rendered. Without such service, a
Grand Master would frequently be helpless.

20

NAME

DATE OF COMMISSIO N

DISTRICT

Walter Edward Sanner
• Nov. 24, 1950
326
Frank W. Raddatz . .
Nov: 24. 1950
546
Olen F. Turner .
Nov. 24, 1950
630
Joseph Myron Ruggiero
Dec. 21, 1950
332
Arthur Boone .
Dec. 21, 1950
506
Dec. 21.1950
508
G uy S . H ar t s. Sr ..
Fred T. Moore
Jan.6, 1951
618
J. Ralph Dawdy .
Jan. 26. 1951
422
Andre L. Armand
Jan. 26. 1951
376
Robert McGarva
Mar. 11. 1951
109
Ellis Shelton Bass
Mar. 11. 1951
120
Jack Walton Leishman .
May 18. 1951
337
Elmer Gaylord Quinn
May 18, 1951
367
Loren Alton Lloyd .
May 18, 1951
370
Jennings E. Muir. .
July 10, 1951
432
Thomas B. Copeland
Sept. 21. 1951
114
If a Grand Master needed compensation for the performan ce of his
tasks. he could find it in abundant measure in the splendid spirit, unfailing loyalty and wholehea rted cooperatio n of all the officers. members of committees, inspectors and members of the craft. Never once.
during the whole year have I asked for help or advice, that it was not

21

SPECIAL CEREMONI ES

. At the last c~mmunication of Grand Lodge, the Grand Master was
directed to appomt a committee to revise and report upon special ceremonies of Grand Lodge. In order that all groups and shades of opinion
be represente d on that committee, I appointed the proponent of the
motion, Most Worshipf ul Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master, as
Chairman of the Committee, Very Worshipf ul Walter H. E. von Konsky. G~and Lecturer, as a representa tive of the Ritual Committee, and
Worshipf ul Roy W. Bryan, who has heretofore distinguis hed himself as
a member of our Committee on Necrology .
This Committe e has caused its report and recommendations to be
printed so t.hat the. craft may know in advance what changes are proposed, and m due time the committee will submit its report in due form.
CLUBHOUS ES

Notwithst anding the fact that earnest efforts have been made to
bring to the attention of the craft the splendid clubhouse facilities at
the University of California at Berkeley, and the University of Califronia ~t Los Angeles, it seems apparent that many members of the
craft with sons and daughters attending these Universiti es are not
familiar with the splendid service we are offering.
I ag.ain call this t~ t~e attention of the members of Grand Lodge so
they mig~t carry this mformation to the constituen t lodges and help
make available to students of Masonic families the privileges of these
two splendid clubs.
PETTUS BIBLE

Once again so many lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction have made

out~tanding records in the matter of Masonic charity, that I hesitate to

designate one alone to be the recipient of the Pettus Bible.
I therefore follow the recommendation which has been heretofore
made from time to time, that this book be held by the Grand Secretary
to be used by lodges at such time as they may desire, the book to be

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

held in the custody of the Grand Secretary and to be used under such
rules as he may prescribe in the circumstances.

occasions, but the committees in charge were not then ready to proceed.
I complied with the request and ask at this time that the use of this sum
be officially approved.

22

23

PUBLICATI ONS AND ADVERTISI NG

For many years thoughtfu l Masons have been disturbed by the ~buse
f the privileges of so-called Masonic publications. and the preva enc~
~f advertising both by such publications and by Masons of our own an
other jurisdictions.
b
d
to soive
In the past attempts have een ma e b Y th.is Grand Lodge
.
h
th
blem b~t without effect, but I was determine d t~ again approac
it ~!r~he p~rpose of exploring the poss~bilities o_f findmgM per~ap:~~
solution. To this end I appointed a special com~ittee ~n . ason~c .
lications. and this committee, after long and pa~sta~n~r~n;~t~~:!:~
will at this communication of Grand Lodge, Ima \a ~ t tep toward
me~dations which, in my opinion, shoul~ at east e a rs s
the solution of this distressing and pressing problem.
• INVESTIGA TIONS

1

Grand Master has had occasion to call
the I~t:t:! ~~8;~en~::fr =~~ matter of laxity in the investigat ion of
applicants for the de~ree~
h d me during the past year which
So ~any_ complam~s ave r~a;n:e or a lack of understan ding of the
arose primarily from ~ther ~egl_ g that I feel it my duty to emphasize
technique s of proper mvestl~tyatif~~·greater care in this important part of
once more the urgent necessi
our work.
.
d
d
out the programs for which it was
If Masonry is to en ure an carry
.
d members in the
wfeMmusotnrynot
to the problem of
prmcip es o
as
•
securing applicants £°f th~ highest cht~:rc~~sonic bodies pay little heed
In view of the act t . at many o dmission but accept membership in

de~ig~eld,

b~~l::r::s:~~v~a:r~:!:~e~e:~

~~:h;o:S~
~t:i:~ l~~;:l:lb:~a~~~l f~~i~e~c~e~!u;:a~!!~~ti;~~;eo;e~t t~~~~
uard our own
porta s ut m a grea .

. .

~f many other organizati ons of Masonic origin.
.

MOTION PICTURE

h Trustees of the Masonic Homes and the
Several monthJ .a~o, t ~
that the negotiatio ns they had carried
Endowme nt Boar m o~me ~:w to securing a motion picture of the
on for several years with a. v~h 1 dges had reached a stage where it
work at the Homes for use in e o a sc~i t without further delay• and
was advisable to commenc \work o~ Fifte~n Hundred Dollars for that
I was asked to authQrizhe t e use od this project in principle on several
purpose. Grand Lodge as approve

GRAND LODGE RECORDS

Shortly after the close of the last communication of Grand Lodge,
we were advised by our military authorities that there was a strong
probability of war at any time, and particular ly during the spring and
summer months of this year. We. like all others, were urged to make all
necessary preparatio ns for the protection of our people and our property.
The valuable and irreplaceable records of our Grand Lodge are
admittedly in a target area highly vulnerable to assault by bombing.
With a view to placing these records or microfilms thereof in a place of
safety, I called together the heads of the principal committees concerned
and the members of the emergency group created by legislation last
October. to get their views on the steps that could ·b e taken. It was
unanimously agreed by that group that certain records and microfilms of
others should be deposited in a place which would be safe from bombing and I therefore approved a sufficient appropria tion from Grand
Lodge funds to construct a suitable vault in the basement of the new
Columbia Temple in Tuolumne County. The Temple, as all know, is the
property of this Grand Lodge, is newly constructe d and offered unusual
facilities for constructi on of such a vault. In addition, it was in an area
of the state having unusual factors of safety.
NEBRASKA RECORD

Each day many problems come across the desk of a Grand Master,
and many of them, though important in themselves, do not loom large
as a matter of precedent . However, one matter apparently trivial on its
face, has come to my desk this year which deserves the most earnest and
serious considerat ion of this Grand Lodge, and which in due time will
be reported upon by our Committee on Grievance s.
Several months ago a complaint was received from the Grand Lodge
of Nebraska, stating that a member of a California lodge residing in
that state, had violated the law thereof and was subject to trial. In
accordanc e with their establishe d trial procedure, they tried the California brother, found him guilty and ordered him expelled.
If this were a case of a serious and aggravate d offense. one which
was clearly a violation of the law of this Grand Jurisdiction, it would
present no particular problem. But this is not the facl The offense of
which the California brother stands convicted is one which is not, if I
"1nderstand the record correctly, in contraven tion of our own laws.
When the record of conviction from the Grand Jurisdiction of
Nebraska came to me, I ordered it transmitte d to the Grand Lodge
Committee on Grievance s for review, for the solution of the problem

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

impofrti~snC:a::e t!: ::~~~ra~o:v;~~:~d:~~

here involved is .not onlybeof
.
of great moment cause o
d .
.
.
is one
h ff
f which the brother stands convicte is mmor m
Because t e o ense o
..
rt not to recognize the
character, there may be a disposition ~p~n our pa
ive to the brethren
Nebraska trial comm1ss1o~d· a~d to g ·d t as well as to
J'udgmentGof the
d J · d' ti
who now res1 em our mi s •
of other ranb uri\1c r~~de in other Grand Jurisdictions, the.impr~s-

~:n°;:tt~~r;r~s : 0° such thing as. juri~dic~ion :~ ~ea P~~~~~ 1~~

Mason and have a conviction recognized m .his o . t t~ control the
Grand Jurisd~ction. is s~vitally co~ce~~~f:~i~ t~~/1::0bably we have
actions of soiournmg
asons as is a i
,
other state in the
within our limits more sojou~ing Mason~e!:a:e:~ya constituent lodge
Union. Many of these men ave ne~er Masonic bodies, some of them
and although they belong to many o. er .
bod
at least have no direct con~ectiobl wit~ t~j~:=~~ by ~·omething that
The significance of this pro em is 1
m lained behappened within the last mon~h. One of our ln~p~!o:e~b:rs of a socause of certain conduct carried on .by.tom; t~e members of that club
called Masonic Club .. ~hile the ma1or1 y o e of California, some of
recognized the jurisdiction of ~he Grand ;od~bers of lodges in this
the principal. trans~ressorsh ~l o w;r~h:o po:er of the Inspector, .the
jurisdiction immediatelt;_ c ~ r~e f California to try them, or in any
Grand Master and the r~n
~ ge o
h"b"t Un-Masonic actions. .
way to seek to control their con ~ct or prGr;e~ances may offer, I call to
Whatever solution our Comm1tte~t on f aintaining our right to pass
your attention, Brethren, the n;cess1 i'ho Grand Jurisdictions who live
upon the conduct of Mason~ roM o er will soon end in a state of
within our borders. Otherwise,
asonry
chaos.
DECISION NO. I

ll d
th.
ar to render a great numAs is usual, I have be~n ca e u~rn M:Is~nic Law. Many inquiries
her of decisions on questiobns conceth .gqu1·rer failed to make the neces.
dt
e
ecause e m
. L
were d irecte o m either
ffi . tl t . ed in matters of Masonic
aw to
was
insu
c1en
y
ram
0
h
sary searc ' or .
d decisions without assistance. t h er quesinterpret our ordinances anf
h
. r nature as not to warrant retions were well settled or o sue a mmo
porting them to Grand Lodge.
. robably moot at this time, but
The first question pr~sent~~ to =~;s ~rise in some other connection,
in view of the fact that 1~ cou . po At the last communication of Grand
I report it fc:ir your c~n~d~rationf application for degrees was amended
Lodge, Question 13 o t e. or~ ~o romise that he would not "within
so as to require the app~1~an the ~e ree of Master Mason, apply for
twelve .months after r~~e~:17~itiated i~ any body, order, or organization
or receive any degree b h '
h 'n is that a person be a Master
the prerequisite of mem ers ip w erei

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

Mason." The question immediately arose whether or not the amendment
was retroactive. I held that it was prospective only in operation.
There is nothing in our law which prohibits a Master Mason from
seeking the memberships mentioned in said question prior to the expiration of the period of twelve months. The obligation to wait that length
of time arises solely out of the promise given by the applicant at the time
of filing his application for degrees. Inasmuch as no such promise was
signed or made by any applicant prior to the expiration of the annual
communication of Grand Lodge last year, there was no obligation resting upon such Master Masons to comply with the rule.
Under Section 315 of our Ordinances, the amendment became
effective immediately upon the close of the last annual communication
of Grand Lodge. I instructed all Secretaries to make the necessary
changes in the application form , and to require all applicants to answer
the question as amended before it was received by the lodge.
DECISION NO. 11

Following the decision of the Grand Master made last year and
approved by Grand Lodge to the effect that Section 151 of our Ordinances which authorizes the deposit of lodge funds in a bank or banks,
did not permit the deposit of such funds in a building and loan association, I was besieged with inquiries concerning the interpretation of Section 152 of the Ordinances, and the legality of investments in building
and loan associations.
I advised all lodges that Section 151 related solely to the deposit of
lodge funds, 'While Section 152 related to the investment of such funds,
and that the decision of the Grand Master last year did not apply in any
way to the interpretation of Section 152.
Any doubt that may have heretofore existed regarding the legality
of investment of lodge funds in building and loan association certificates
has been removed by the action of the California Legislature, Statutes
1949, Chapter 202, which now provides that savings banks may invest
in certificates of building and loan associations. Under our law this automatically makes such investments legal for Masonic Lodges.
DECISION NO. Ill

Another question of more than passing importance in the ·management of the funds of constituent lodges was presented to me for decision
by King Solomon's Lodge. A resolution was passed by that lodge, providing "that no officer or member will have the authority to incur any
Indebtedness against King Solomon's Lodge of more than two hundred
dollars for any single activity excepting relief of the lodge, unless approved by a majority vote of the membership prior to such activity, and
that this motion shall remain in effect and not be changed unless the

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNiA

membership have thirty days' notice thereof."
After the passage of the above resolution by majority vote, and at
the next stated meeting, the Master ruled that the resolution was out of
order and directed that the record thereof be deleted from the minutes of
the previous meeting. The proponents of the resolution therefore requested a ruling from the Grand Master. The be~ief i.s commonly held
that with the adoption of uniform by-laws, the legislative power of constituent lodges in matters of this kind have been practically destroyed.
Standing resolutions have been disapproved many times, but so far as I
am advised, the disapproval has always been based upon the ground
that the resolution in question was in conflict with by-laws or some
higher authority.
The funds of a constituent lodge are under the control of the lodge,
subject to such rights as are specifically conferred on officers ~uch as the
Charity Committee, or can reasonably be inferred. Our Ordinances repeatedly refer to "the lodge" in connection with the use of lodge fun?s·
While Section 115 of the Ordinances recognizes the "primary executive
authority" of the Master, it also recognizes the legislative power ~f the
lodge "relative to its internal concerns" in cases where the exercise of
such authority does not conflict with some higher law.
I ruled that a standing resolution, placing a limitation in advance
upon the power of officers to incur indebtedness. would b.e le~al and
binding, provided always that it is so drawn as not to conflict with any
statutory delegation of power to the officers or members of the lodge as
provided by other provisions of our law.

decision. It might be argued with great force that the rejection of the
proposed legislation was based upon the ground that it was not necessary in the light of the prior decision. However, this was not the case.
The matter was debated solely upon its merits, and as a matter of policy
the majority of the members of the Grand Lodge held that this should
not be a part of our law, at least in statutory form.
It must be admitted as a matter of law, that the failure to enact the
proposed ordinance did not change the force and effect of the former
decision, and that under our law as it now stands, one who has been
convicted of a felony, or at least who has served a term in a state prison,
is not entitled to apply for the degrees. Because of the confusion which
has gro'Wn out of the conflicting actions heretofore mentioned, and because, like practically all members of my profession I feel that the decision of 1875 is unsound in the light of modern conditions, I again present
the matter to Grand Lodge that all doubt as to our policy in such an important matter be removed. At the time of the rendition of the old decision in 1875, it was the policy of our criminal law generally .to exact
"an eye for an eye.'' At that time courts were not authorized to grant
probation to offenders where there were extenuating circumstances and
a likelihood that the offender might be reformed. Small children were
sent to jail for long periods of confinement and society was reluctant to
show consideration or leniency of any kind for one who had once transgressed our statutes or violated our moral law, regardless of the circumstances or what atonement had been made in later life.
Those of us who spend our lives in trial courts realize that there are
cases occasionally where justice may miscarry,' or where men may be
found guilty•on technical grounds even in the absence of moral turpitude
or intent to commit a crime. One of the cases reported to me by the
Master of a lodge recently, involves a question where the prospective
applicant was convicted many years ago, in his early youth, of manslaughter growing out of the reckless driving of an automobile.
The second case involves a question where a man was convicted in
his early youth under circumstances which have caused many people
to question the justice of the decision.
I am of the opinion that the instances where lodges in this Grand
Jurisdiction would elect an applicant who had once been convicted of a
felony would be rare indeed. There are cases, however, familiar to all
those engaged in law enforcement, where the circumstances are such that
it can not be said at the present time as a matter of practical experience
that the applicant is not under the tongue of good report in the communiy where he has since spent his life and where he is best known to
those about him. Not only are there cases where a serious doubt exists
as to the moral guilt of the defendant in the first instance, but it is firmly
established through the many succeeding years that such defendant
has demonstrated his worth and character to those who are best qualified to act.

26

DECISION NO. IV

Within the past month I have received inquiries from two diff~rent
lodges which again raised the question whether or ~~t an applicant
who admittedly has been convicted of a felony may petition for degrees.
In 1875 this Grand Lodge decided that one who had se~ved a term
in a state prison was not "under the tongue of good report and could
not petition for the degrees.
·
.
No doubt the questions have again arisen because of the. acti~n of
Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication of 1948, at which time a
resolution was offered for the purpose of amending Section 208 of the
Ordinances. to provide specifically that one convicted of a .felony c~uld
not apply for the degrees. After considerable debate on this resolution,
.
it was rejected.
In the light of the record as thus shown, it appears that since 1875,
by decision of Grand Lodge, such a person is not under the tongue of
good report and his ?PPlication for the degrees should not be receive~.
It further appears. however, from the action of. Grand ~~ge taken m
1948, that the members of this grand body were not w1lhng to enact
into our law the very provisions which had heretofore been approved by

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I therefore recommend that the decision of this Grand rdge m~~e
in 1875 and reported as Section 875 of the Ross Dig~st, e set ~~1 t~
d disapproved and that in the future where a lodge is called up d
~~termine wheth~r or nobt adn appl_icadntbis u~~eiotgee t~~gt~: ta~~oof r:n
ort that the question e etermme y sa1
1· .
ihe facts that exist at the time of the presentation of the app ication.
. DECISION NO. V

As was to be expected, the problem ofd~hysicahl disqfau:l:c~t:ppn ~=~
dl d . th past year an m eac , so
arisen repeate y urmg ed
I
e ruled strictly in accordance
to applicants for the three egrees,
av
with the decisions heretofohre ~adef.
the question applies to entered
H owever, 1•t appears t at mso .ar as f further clarification.
apprentices or fellowcr":fts,. there£ iGs roo; Lo~ e the Grand Master re9
A t the last commumcation
ran
1.
h"
b" t and upon' t h e recommen dat1"on of
parted ~ecisions inVO vm~ t IS ~U
'ectors of the districts in which the
the Jurisprudence Committee, t e nsp
G
d L d the facts
problems had arisen were directed to report to ran
o ge
of the particular case~.
h"
Ih
been asked whether or not an
On several occasions t is year
ave . 1 disabilities which would
Entered Appr~n~~e ~h~· ha~:~!:r~~sf~~=~~:ce but had done nothing
hahve p~evetnted1"sq1us a~i~yc i~~ from advancement, should be given the
ot erw1se o
succeeding degrees.
ld b served by discussing this particul~r
No useful purpose wou
e
884 this Grand Lodge, by its
1
problem at length i~ t~is ;:~~~2e5 ; ~f the Ross Digest, held that a
decision now _reported m e
h h. d never been a Mason and one
distinction existed betweendo;.e w of a a Fellowcraft. The principles
who had become an Entere
ppren_ i~e or
1 th
involved were discussed in ~~at ~e~s1on ~~i~:~a:h:;~dg~s that where a
On the basis of that dec1s1on,
ave a
eived one or more degrees,
physical disability occurs af~r a man h:~ r~~ar as physical disqualificathere is no ~egal bar todhis ad ~~~~e:~:ss1~~e brother has in some other
tion alone is concerne • an
.
· 1 d t th degrees
way forfeited his rights thereto, he is entlt e o e
.

h

°

re

°

1

A NEW PROJECT

d k
I have devoted the major part of my
As most of you alrea y now, f
f one great project. In recent
time and effort this year to the promo ion ~t in some way to create an
years several Grand ~~sters ha::~o~p Masonic information. All but
efficient and more amb1t10u_s :~o.y
That one resulted in the appointone of the propos~ls met w~as:~i~r~~formation. In its early years the
ment of a Comm1t~ee on
t exclusively to matters of symbolism,
committee directed its eff~rts alfosh. 6. Id the work was most excellent.
allegory and kindred subiects. n t is e

29

In later years a more practical turn was taken and a number of worthwhile and most commendable pamphlets were issued for the enlightenment of candidates and newly made members. Since the creation of that
committee, we have expended on this project a large sum of money, but
excellent as the work has been, we have not approached a proper goal.
This is recognized by the present committee, which has realized from .
the beginning that the limits set for its activities are too narrow.
Long before I reached this office, I became convinced from my
observations and conversations with members of the craft in all parts of
the state that the time had come for us to undertake a well-thought-out
and more ambitious plan for the dissemination of practical information
and the education of all Masons---especially those who have just joined
our ranks-in the principles and purposes of this institution. Perhaps
there has never been a time prior to this when the craft would have been
interested in such a plan, but I sincere~y believe that it is now at hand.
Many other Grand Jurisdictions have recognized this need, and a number have already made great progress in their plans. To be effective,
any program adopted must enlist the talent of the best students, teachers
and speakers among us. This talent must be sufficiently well distributed
through the state to give service of some kind to all lodges: and the cost
to Grand Lodge must not be excessive.
To explore the "possibilities of such a program and to bring to this
communication a report of the activities of other Grand Jurisdictions,
I appointed a committee to investigate and analyze their work and in
due time this committee will give you its findings and recommendations.
It has formulated legislation which I shall submit to you with the hope
that it will be adopted.
The legislation proposed will probably not meet with approval in
every minor detail, even by those who believe in the proposed program.
Such matters are of necessity subject to compromise. In undertakings of
this kind we must to some extent experiment and make such changes as
seem advisable in the light of future experience: but the value of such a
project is far too great to be delayed and the need ~oo pressing to be
blocked by minor differences of opinion.
Briefly stated, the proposed legislation would authorize the Grand
Master to form by warrant a sufficient number of Research Lodges to
meet our needs. Such lodges would be organized solely for this purpose
and would not confer degrees or perform many duties of ordinary lodges.
They would be under the supervision of Grand Lodge at all times and
would be designed to serve in such manner as it directs.
Research Lodges should not--and I can not emphasize this too
strongly-seek to occupy the field now · covered by other Masonic
bodies: and they should not compete with the activities of constituent
lodges. They should confine their activities to such work as lies legiti.mately within the field of Craft Masonry. Their members should not
become Masonic Monks but should devote their time and their talents to

30

PROCEEDINGS OP TH E

stit uen t lodges.
the wo rk and pro gra ms of con
ing
hen
ngt
stre
and
g
ldin
and Lo dge
bui
boa rds and committees of Gr boa rds of
As pre sen tly org ani zed , the
of
ty
aci
: tho se tha t act in the cap
fall int o two distinct gro ups
gra ms of edu can and promote var iou s pro
dir ect ors and tho se tha t pla
ent atio n to the
res
rep
cal
er to give geo gra phi
ord
In
ds.
fun
icit
sol
or
,
tion
select members of
ary for Gr and Ma ste rs to
sta te. W e can
sec ond group, it is cus tom
sep ara ted par ts of this vas t
the se committees from wid ely or sometimes of any , meetings of such
nt,
int o eve ry
not pay the cost of freque
ed in some ma nne r to rea ch
ect
exp
are
y
the
t
Ye
s.
tee
commit
per ly organi;ted
for ma nce of the ir duties. Pro a minimum of
per
the
in
te
sta
s
thi
of
t
par
h
ll-t rai ned members, and wit
Re sea rch Lodges, wit h we
tees to the admit
com
h
suc
of
p
shi
leader
expense, could act und er the
spo nso red by thi s body.
ity. If thi s
van tag e of eve ry pro gra m
, my bre thr en, in all sincer
you
to
this
say
me
let
d
An
blem and solve it
opp ort uni ty to solve this pro
this
ts
lec
neg
dge
Lo
and
Gr
Th e dec ent ral ibe seeking to solve it for us.
pace. Ev ery
now, someone else will soon
ing
is proceeding at an alarm
ntl y of all
zation of Ma son ic direction
nde
epe
ind
~roups-of ten act ing
tion wit h
nec
day bri ngs new s of new
con
no
ing
and sometimes hav
,
ity
hor
aut
ic
son
Ma
d
ize
ng the ir ow n
recogn
ng in our nam e and proclaimi
aki
spe
mfor
any
in
ry
son
Ma
the common
version of our tea chi ngs .
recognition of the dig nit y of
Ma son ry wa s org ani zed in
to know, to
ht
rig
his
chi ngs are bas ed upo n
e a symbol
om
man. Its pro gra ms and its tea
bec
has
it
To all ma nki nd
ht.
rig
n
ow
his
in
act
to
and
think,
nda rds require
trol in eve ry form. Such sta
con
t
ugh
tho
to
nce
ista
res
of
par t.
tha t eve ry Ma son kno w his
tha t the pre sen t
us to assume the leadership
for
d
ive
arr
Th e time has
ion, but by the
act
red
ays by officially spo nso
situ atio n dem and s; not alw
cro ssr oad s.
building of bet ter men.
tions, sta nds tod ay at the
Ma son ry, like all free institu ultimately lea ds to sla ver y and depat h thi'!t
·w e can choose the eas y
rs and ma ke saf e
the cha llen ge of our founde
ept
acc
can
struction, or we
a free and bet ter
to
ay
ens' children the hig hw
from wit hou t
for ourselves and our childr
ces
for
ss
hle
ass aile d by rut
be
y
ma
we
gh
hou
Alt
.
, our mission
world
guided pro phe ts from within
and sometimes misled by mis
Go d, or in the
eth er it be in service of our
still remains the same. Wh
ftsm en of our
cra
st alw ays be the ma ste r
service of ma nki nd, we mu
.
free
the cha rac ter to remain
tim e-m en wit h vision and
serve.
you for this opp ort uni ty to
Ag ain , my bre thr en, I tha nk

Gr and Ma ste r

IFO RNI A
GRAND LODGE OP CAL

PR OC LA MA TI ON BY TH

31

E GR AN D MA ST ER

32 nd Ob ser van ce of Publi

c Schools We ek

and Hawaii·
and Brethren of California
.
To ~e M8:tehr~, Wa rde ns
l
n
bee n
rld
wo
the
eve r in isto ry hav e sor ma
t
hou
oug
thr
e
e ~ _P~op
den ed access to aut hen tic sou so~ i~ ~rmation. Ne ver before were the
r:
mo
rol
ont
t-c
d for a
forc~s of tho ugh
er u • and nev er wa s the nee
p
r.
ate
gre
tem
sys
s
ool
pubhc sch
. . alf of free schools
ue the ir unti . eff ort s in
beh
Ma son s must con tin
.
rmg
t
ry
son
if Democracy and Ma
are o continue.
I t h ere for e proclaim and direct:
observe Pub]· Sch ool We ek commencing Mo n1. Th at all lod ges195
ic
1,
day, Ap ril 23,
h
held duri
ted meet2. Th at no me etin gs berein
ng :. at wfeek, except sta
and
the
fall
y
obs erv the
ool
if
sch
in gs
lic
pub
or
s
ing
e
me
'
ance.
d
b
3. Th at this Pro1.cla ma tio n e rea . at eac h sta ted meeting prior to
Ap ril 23, 195
rua ry 10, 1951.
Da ted at San Fra nci sco , Feb
Att est :
LLom E. WI LSO N,
Gr and Sec ret ary

AR TH UR PAU LSE N.

Gr and Ma ste r

PR OC IA MA TI ON
Ma son ic Ho me s En do wm ent

Mo nth

.

d
ic Home
the
Ou r two gre at Ma son
n . tod ay as monuments to
sta
s
d
ry
son
Ma
a
rni
in
re
sha
to
spirit of Ca lifo
s
ion
itat
continuing inv
o~d';;
ally
the privilege of giving. In
atic
tem
sys
y
outstandi:~e~o;tason ma
play his par t in this gre at and
I the ref ore proclaim :
b
19
1. Th at the mo nth of M ay, 51 • e Ma son ic Homes En dow me nt
Mo nth .
. . . .
nth each lod . h.is Jur
isdiction arr ang e a
2. Th at during sai datMo
t
in
g~
one of 't
b h
uai
acq
special pro gra m
to
gs
etin
1 .s med
n t our ret ren
M
h
b
•th
rity
cha
nic
pur w1 t e aso
~~ one at our Homes and the
poses of the En dow me nt Fu~
members wh
it one
3. Th at tho se of our
o can conveniently do so, vis
or both of our Homes.
·
berin th t
i. Th at each bro the r, remem d w~rtha honehof our .first gre at obligat ion s is to ass ist distresse
y rot ers, the ir wid ow s and

t::;

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

orphans, endeaver to contribute to the best ot his ability to this
Fund.
5. That this Proclamat ion be read in at least two meetings of each
lodge during the months of April and May, 1951.
Dated February 11, 1951.
ARTHUR PAULSEN.
Attest:
Grand Master
LLOYD E. WILSON,
Grand Secretary

MESSAGES OF CONGR ATULA TION*

32

Tc All Lodges:
Brethren:

August 27. 1951

Chain Letters
My attention hc.s recently been called several ti~es to the .fact that
certain brethren in this Grand Jurisdiction are sending out cham letters
which are strictly in violation of law.
It is my direction that this matter be called to the attention of the
brethren at the next stated meeting, and if the names of such pers.ons ~re
known, it is my direction that the Inspector be informed of the identity
of the senders of such letters, and that he report those na~es to me as
soon as possible.
Furnishing Mailing Lists
My attention has also been called to the fact that a number of. requests have been circulated for the names of Masons for use for various
purposes not connected with activities approved by Grand Lodge or by
Masonic Law.
·
d
This is contrary to our ordinance s and all Masons are directe
not to
furnish such lists.
Masonic Clubhouses
The attention of the Craft is again directed to the fact that Grand
Lodge of California supports two splendid Masonic Clubhouse s at two
of our great Universities, and that a large number of students who would
be eligible to enjoy the benefits of such clubhouses, apparentl y are unaware of such facilities.
It is my sincere hope that this matter be again brou~ht t~ the atte~tion of our brethren who are sending children to the Um:ersi~y o~ California or the University of California at Los Angeles with the vie': to
making these splendid facilities available to as many students as possible.
Fraternall y yours,
Attest:

ARTHUR PAULSEN.

Grand Master
Grand Secretary
The Deputy Grand Master referred the Message to the Committee
on Segregatio n, appointing the following members to serve thereon;
Byron Coleman, Paul S. Boren, and Charles A. Thomasse t.
LLOYD E. WILSON,

33

Telegram s. and messages of greeting were received from Past Grand
Masters Robert B. Gaylord, Earl Warren, Randolph V. Whiting, Samuel E. Burke, and J. T. Fraser: Robert Cretney, Past Grand Master of
Louisiana: C. A. Carlson, Jr.. and Chester Cochran, Past Grand Masters
of Nevada: Ray F. Brookhart , Grand Master of Idaho: Earl K. Haling,
Grand Secretary of Connectic ut: James Jonas de Pinna, Grand Secretary
of Rio de Janeiro; and the Internatio nal Order of Job's Daughters , State
of California.

* Messages received at different times during the Communication are all listed
here for convenience of reference.
.

RESOLU TIONS
Resolutions received at different times during the Communication
are listed here for convenience of reference, .the respective times of
presentati on being as indicated.
The Grand Secretary read the following resolutions, all of which
were referred by the Grand Master to the Committees as noted:

Monday morning:

SPECIAL FUNERA L SERVICE
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of California:
The undersign ed hereby proposes the following resolution for adoption by Grand Lodge:
RESOLV ED, that the following is hereby adopted as a funeral service to be used by lodges at Masonic funerals following the service by a
clergyman :
Brethren and Friends:
From time immemorial. it has been the custom among Free and
Accepted Masons, at the request of a brother, to accompany his remains
to the place of interment and there deposit them with the brief formalities of the Craft.
In conformit y with this usage, and in testimony of our love and esteem for our departed brother, we have assembled here in the character
of Freemaso ns to offer up to his memory, the last sad tribute of our
affection: thereby demonstra ting the sincerity of our Brotherly love and
our steady attachmen t to the principles of our Institution.
As no man should enter upon any important affair without first invoking the blessing of God, we bow our heads in prayer.
.
Chaplain Most Glorious God! Author of all good, and Giver of all mercy! Pour
:lown Thy blessing upon us, we beseech Thee, and strengthen our solemn

34

engagements with the ties of sincere affection! Endow us with fortitude
and resignation in this hour of our sorrow, and grant that this dispensation from Thy hands may comfort those who now meet here to mourn.
May the present example of mortality remind us of our approaching dissolution, and draw our attention to Thee, our only refuge in time of need.
Endow us with the vision of faith to see that realm beyond the skies
where the veil of sorrow never hides the light: and when the contests of
our transitory life on Earth are ended, may we be received into Thy
Everlasting Kingdom. Amen.
Response: So mote it be.
(Master reads the Sacred Roll and deposits it on the casket.)
(The apron is taken from the casket by the S. W. and handed to the ,
·
Master.)
This lamb-skin apron is an emblem of innocence and the peculiar
badge of a Mason. It is more ancient than the Golden Fleece or the
Roman Eagle, and, when worthily worn, more honorable than the Star
or Garter, or any other Order which earthly power can confer. By it
we are admonished of that purity of life and rectitude of conduct by
which alone we may hope to gain admission into that Celestial Lodge
above where the Supreme Grand Master of the Universe forever presides.
( Deposits a pron on casket)
(Taking sprig of Acacia)
This Acacia, which once marked the temporary resting place of one
illustrious in Masonic legend, is an emblem of immortality. By it we are
reminded that we have an imperishable spirit in us which will never,
never die.
(Deposits Acacia)
Our brother has reached the end of his earthly toils. The brittle
thread which bound him to earth has been severed. The silver cord is
loosed: the golden bowl is broken; the pitcher is broken at the fountain;
the wheel is broken at the cistern. The dust has returned to the Earth
as it was and the spirit has returned to God who gave it.
"Man that is born of woman is of few days and full of trouble.
He cometh forth as a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a
shadow and continueth not."
This is the state of man: today he puts forth the tender leaves of
hope: tomorrow blossoms,
And bears his blushing honors thick upon him,
The third day comes a frost.
The Almighty Fiat ~as made at the foundation of the World,
"Dust thou art, and unto dust shall thou return."
Unto its final resting place we consign his body, earth to earth;
ashes to ashes: dust to dust.

35

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

br~ther.

bee~

Almighty Father: into Thy Hands we commend h
raised i h t soul of our deOur brother has
parted
which no time can close, where peace a:J
will reign
. L' h
durmg the boundless ages of eternity Th
ind Loigvet unmingled
erean
darkness, armed Truth untarnished b.y error
b
unblemish dwith
Y
e
.
S
All
th
of
bend
benignant
the
under
meet
us
et
ate,
1 more.
h
- eemg Eye, to
e
no
part

Lo~ge

S

:!rm~~reme. Gr~nd
~

d
To the bereaved relatives and friends of
four eparted Brother, we
extend our sincere sympathy in thi's ho
ur o sorrow and we
h
"H
pr~y t h at
e w o tempers the wind to the shorn lamb" . .
fort and consolation; and that the ma kno will give the~ ~is comBrother is happy in his Father's H~use y h w ..~a~ the spmt of our
all. tears from their eyes, and where tli:ree:ehall o shall wipe away
no more .death,
neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be
Y more pam, for
the former things are passed away."
.
.
Let us, therefore, while we work with h
t e m~t~rial things of this
world, be ever diligent to re ar
spiritual building, that hous:nof m=d~ur~~v:s ~s living ~tones for that
"So l.ive, that when thy summons c:es t:roi~ eternal m the Heavens.
The innumerable caravan that moves
T~ the pale realm of shade, where each shall tak
e
His chamber in the silent halls of death
Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at ni,ght
Scourged to hi~ dungeon, but, sustained a~d soothed
B?' an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About ~im, and lies down to pleasant dreams."
I Th
Chaplain: The Lord bless us and Kee
make His
to Sh.ine upon us, and be gracious to us!
i upon us the light
of His countenance and give us peace!
Response: Amen! So mote it be!
HENRY W. Co1L, P. M., Riverside Lodge No. 635

~=

th~\,ordel~~rd

~ace

Referred to the Committee on p l'
~ icy and G eneral Purposes and to
the Special Committee on Cere
monies.

AMENDMENT OF SECTIONS 26 AND 27
Most Worshipf u z G ran d Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
theCalifornia:
To of
tion;he undersigned hereby proposes the following resolution for adop-

LodRESOLVED, that Sections 26 and 27 of the Constitutio

.
n of Grand
•
ge be amended to read respectively as f 11
o ows.
Sec 26 E
t dtodthis C::onstitution shall
be in V.:rit~g. :;;er~;~~:dp~:Pendment
eposited at least forty
onen an

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

36

ADDITION OF SECTION 9.1

days prior to the next succeeding Communication of Grand Lodge.
with the Grand Secretary. who shall promptly mail copies thereof
to the Secretary of each lodge and to each member of the Committee
on Jurisprudence and of the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes. The Grand Secretary shall read all such proposed amendments in Grand Lodge on the opening day thereof. and said Com•
mittees shall be prepared to report thereon not later than the second
day of such Communication; provided that nothing herein shall
prevent the further reference of such proposed amendment to any
other Committee or Committees, or prevent the submission during
the Communication of Grand Lodge of proposed amendments to
this Constitution which may. in the judgment of the Grand Master.
· be emergent or be suggested by or arise out of proceedings during
such Communication.
Sec. 27. Upon the report of all Committees to which said proposed amendment shall have been referred. if five-sixths of the
votes shall be in favor thereof. it shall be declared adopted; and,
from and after the close of that Communication, it shall be a part

To of
theCalifornia:
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
ti on:The undersigned hereby proposes t h e following resolution for adop-

c

. .

RESO LVED, that Article III f h
be a~ended by adding thereto a ne~ ; e. onsbtubon of Grand Lodge
reading as follows:
ection to be numbered Section 9.1
Sec. 9.1. The Grand Lod e h II
.
resolution of a political
g ts ~ not receive or consider any
.
. or sec arian re1igi
unanimous consent of all
b
mem ers present. ous nature, except by
HENRY W. COIL, P. M .. Riverside Lodge No. 635
to the Committees on Jurisprudence
.
eralReferred
Purposes.
and on Policy and Gen-

ADDITION OF SECTION 127.1
To the
Most Worshipful Gra nd Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
California:

of this Constitution.
HENRY W. COIL, P. M., Riverside Lodge No. 635

tion:The undersigned hereby proposes t he following resolution for adop-

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

RESOLVED that Article I f p
II
by adding theret~ a new Sectio: to ~rt of~he dOrdinances be amended
as follows:
e num ere Section 127.1 reading

AMENDMENT OF SECTIONS 15, 16, 17, 18
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of California:
The undersigned hereby proposes the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the Constitution of Grand Lodge be amended as
follows:
Strike out Sections 15, 16. 17, and 18 of the Constitution and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
"Sec. 15. Each member of Grand Lodge as defined in Sections 3
and 4, present in Grand Lodge at the time any vote is taken, shall be
entitled to one vote and no individual shall be entitled to more than
one vote, except the Grand Master as provided in Section 19."
HENRY W. COIL, P. M., Riverside Lodge No. 635
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and Gen-

~~~~

37

.

. Sec. 127.1 • .A Lodge shall not receive or
'd
or indulge in any activities of
l'f l
consi er any resolution
or otherwise exhibit politica~ ~~ i ica o~ sectar!a~ religious nature,
provided that nothing herein h II ~ec~rian religious partisanship;
of any Lodge on Divine W s :
e ee~ed to restrict attendance
ors ip, sectarian or otherwise.
HENRY W. COIL, P. M., Riverside Lodge No. 635
Referred to the Committees on p oI'icy and General Purposes and on
Jurisprudence.

AMENDMENT OF SECTIONS 349 . AND 350
To the
Most Worshipful Gra nd Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
California:
tion:The undersigned hereb y proposes the following resolution for adopRESOL
VED, that
Lodge
be amended
to Section
d s 349. an d 35 0 of the Ordinances of Grand
S
349 E
rea respectively as follows:
be in e~ritin~ s~:::~op~~ed amendment to these Ordinances shall
'
Y e proponent and deposited at least forty

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of Gr an d Lodge,
ceeding Communication
day s prior to the ne xt suc
copies the reo f to
wh o shall pro mp tly mail
wi th the Gr an d Se cre tar y
the Committee
ge an d to eac h member of
Ge ne ral Pu rthe Se cre tar y of eac h lod
d
an
y
mmittee on Polic
Co
the
of
d
an
e
enc
rud
po sed am end on Jur isp
y shall rea d all such pro
tar
cre
Se
d
an
Gr
e
Th
poses.
an d sai d Co mthe op eni ng da y thereof,
on
e
dg
Lo
d
an
Gr
in
nts
me
tha n the second
to rep ort the reo n no t lat er
herein shall
mittees shall be pre par ed
ng
tion; pro vid ed tha t no thi
nt to an y
me
da y of such Communica
end
am
suc h pro po sed
of
nce
ere
ref
r
the
fur
the
ssion du rin g
pre ven t
es, or pre ven t the submi
itte
mm
Co
or
e
itte
mm
Co
oth er
am end me nts to
an d Lo dg e of pro po sed
the Communication of Gr
Gr an d Ma ste r,
y, in the jud gm ent of the
tth e Or din anc es wh ich ma by or ari se ou t of pro cee din gs du rin g
ted
be em erg ent or be sug ges
n.
tio
ica
un
mm
suc h Co
sai d pro of all Committees to which
the votes
Sec. 350. Up on the rep ort
of
hs
ixt
e-s
e been ref err ed, if fiv
posed am end me nt shall hav shall be dec lar ed ado pte d; an d, from
it
shall be in fav or thereof.
a pa rt of these
Communication shall be
the
of
se
clo
the
er
aft
d
an
Or din anc es.
Riverside Lodge No . 635
HENRY W . Co1L, P. M ..
ses an d on
Po lic y an d Ge ner al Pu rpo
on
es
itte
mm
Co
the
to
Re fer red
Jurisprudence.

AM EN DM EN T OF SE

CT IO NS 68 AN D 70

cep ted Masons of
and Lo dg e of Free and Ac
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipf ul Gr
California:
for ado pthe following resolution
ses
po
pro
eby
her
ned
sig
Th e un der
Gr an d
tio n:
70 of the Or din anc es of
d
an
68
s
on
cti
Se
at
Th
Resolved:
d as follows:
Lodge be am end ed to rea
an d Officers,
d Ma ste rs, app oin ted Gr
"S ec. 68. Th e Pa st Gr an
members of
the
d
an
Sta nd ing Committees,
Pu rpo ses ,
al
Inspectors, Ch air me n of
ner
Ge
d
an
ence, Policy
rud
isp
Jur
on
es
itte
mm
the Co
ers. Ch art ers an d
ede nti als , Pa y of Memb
Cr
es,
anc
iev
Gr
e,
anc
Fin
ir nec ess ary exll receive pay me nt for the
Ma son ic Inf orm ati on sha
places -0£ resion from the ir respective
pen dit ure s for tra nsp ort ati al Communication of Gr an d Lodge, in
nu
an ces for
dence to an d from eac h An
in Section 66 of the Or din
ed
vid
pro
as
er
nn
ma
e
the sam
d Officer, Pa st
of Lodges; bu t no Gr an
ves
ati
ent
res
rep
or
rs
ice
off
of a Committee,
, Ch air ma n ·or Me mb er
h pay me nt in
Gr an d Ma ste r, Inspector
of a Lo dg e shall receive suc
it unless he
e
or officer or rep res ent ati ve
eiv
rec
acities; no r shall he
m the first
more tha n one of tho se cap
fro
n
tio
ica
at suc h Commun
e
anc
end
att
in
n
bee
ve
shaU ha

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

39

. 1 .
Lodge
to the las t da y the r ~~sf· m~
unless excused by Gr an d
v~,
usi
h
eac
r
the
and , fur
cate of the
tt ~l pro du ce the certifi
or
~c
he
t
tha
er
tu~
Lec
truction du rGr an d
a e~ edbthe Lodge of Ins
~;
n
tio
ica
un
mm
Co
h
suc
ing
an y .as een hel d."
"Se c. 70. Th e followi. i
app oin ted
~Cmittee~ sh~ll b~JUs
~a
~~
a~
~~
2a
at
r
ste
Ma
d
an
Gr
t before
the
by
on,
rud enc e an d on om~umcati
al Pu rner
Ge
d
an
the ,close, viz.: on Jur ispm b
Policy
h
.
Fin anc e, on G rie
vances,
poses, to consist of nin e em ers eac ·on
of Me mb ers •
ws, on
-La
By
on
,
on e redentials, on Pa y enc
ers
art
Ch
on
e
nd
spo
rre
W ee k
Co
e
or
dg
Lo
ns,
d
tur
Re
p: on . i rar y, on Gr an
Activities an d on Lod ge ma ncm g to consist o f seven members
'
M
d
eac h ; an d on Ne cro log ~t on Masonic Information, to consist of
Ie:
At
h
eac
ers
mb
en shaII be
five me
e ·ts ter ~nhd one W ard
~n
d
sai
of
h.
eac
on
ted
app oin
e duties of suc h Co mommi tees.
.
ll cease
ittees shaII con tin ue du
lreCafter, an d sha."
~eet;.e yeAarnnthe
on
ati
nic
mu
om
at the close of the ne xt s~~ .
ua
mg
Riverside Lodge No . 635
HENRY W . COIL, P. M ..
Committees on Pol·icy an d Ge ner al Pu rpo ses , on
. Re fer red to the isp
rudence.
Jur
on
d
an
Finance,

L'b

GR AV E OF PA ST GR

AN D M AS TE R HY AM

'
an d Lo dg e of California:
Gr
ul
ipf
rsh
Wo
st
Mo
the
To
exa ct location of th e gra ve of Pa st Gr an d Ma ste r
W HE RE AS , the thi
rd G d M ast er of Ma so
· C l'f
am
Hy
Benjamin D.
ran
~s m a i ornia an d
•
fl rst M ast er or Benicia Lo dg e No 5 h b
nal
in the Co ng res sio
D C . • das een found
ton
ng
shi
Wa
in
y
ter
me
Ce
' . ., an •
·
RK ED t h e memW HE RE
is well kept, .hubt UN MA
.
ve
gra
s
thi
s.
.A
.
fB
b
th
f
5
ced
1
ers o em aa Lo dg e No iUus~:iou
ma rke r sho uld he plami
~e
tah
~~1
a
i
sat
Ca llfo a
ly
ear
of
ory
ist
at the gra ve of on e so
e
n
Ma son ry,
OR E BE IT RE SO L VE D: tha t the Gr an d Lo dg e
NO W TH ER EFma
rke r at th
Hy am
of Ca lifo rni a place a
wv~~f P. G. M. Benjamin D. r, tha t
me ter y
Ce
nal
the
fur
in the Co ng res sio
d
C. an
l no t excee~s $~n0g~.~~. D.
the cost of such ma rke r wil
At tes t:
tar y
DWIGHT E. W oo o, Se cre
A M
&
F.
5,
.
No
Benicia Lodge
· ·
.
e
nicia Lodg
~ Special Resolution of BeSta
ted
0 5 F. & A. M .. At the ir
• •
. L. 5951.
-A
51
19
3,
er
tob
Oc
Me eti ng of
es o P 1· an d Ge ner al Pu rpo ses , an d on
Re ferr ed to the Committe
n o icy
Finance.

i:

40

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MEETINGS AT BENICIA TEMPLE

in s~ch dispensation, at a place other than the regular place of
meetmg.
*The words underlined are the new provisions to be added to the
Section as it now stands.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, during the year 1950, the members of Benicia Lodge
No. 5, F. & A. M., acquired and reconditioned the First Masonic Temple
built in the State of California, located in the City of Benicia and,
WHEREAS, this project cost the treasury of Benicia Lodge $4,450.00 and many hours of labor and,
WHEREAS, this First Temple was dedicated to Masonic purposes
by the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California on January 27,
1951 and,
WHEREAS, it now stands as a Masonic Shrine of great interest to
alJ regular Masons,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that this Grand
Lodge take proper action to authorize all regular Lodges within i~s
jurisdiction to confer Degrees in the First Masonic Temple under their
own charters as is now the case with the Masonic Home at Decoto and
the Masonic Temple at Columbia.
Attest:
DwlGHT E. WooD, Secretary
Benicia Lodge No. 5, F. & A. M.
By Special Resolution of Benicia Lodge
No. 5, F. & A. M., At their Stated
Meeting of October 3, 1951-A. L. 5951.
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Jurisprudence.

41

ROBERT H. WALKER, P.M., Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
NELS H. JOHNSON, P. M., John P. arman Lodge No. 669
RAY W. McINTYRE, P. M., Fraternity Lodge No. 399
LoREN A. LLOYD, P. M., Los Gatos Lodge No. 292
Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 34
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED that Section 34 be amended by adding thereto the
fol1owing:
"14th. To grant dispensation for convening special meetings of a
Lodge or Lodges in accord with the provisions of Section 121 hereof,
and to prescribe in such dispensations for the time and place of such
special meetings and for notice to members of such Lodge or
Lodges."
RoBERT H. WALKER, P.M., Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
NELS H. JOHNSON, P.M., John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669
RAY W. McINTYRE, P. M., Fraternity Lodge No. 399
LOREN A. LLOYD, P. M., Los Gatos Lodge No. 292
Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
LODGE MEMORIAL SERVICE

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 121
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED that Section 121 be amended to read as folJows:
"Sec. 121. AH meetings shalJ be held in a building in the placei.e. city, town or cornmunity,-B.xed by its charter or dispensation,
except, upon occasions of the conferring of degrees, the Master or
a Warden may convene a special meeting and, with a sufficient
number of brethren to 611 the stations and places, perform the work
for which it was convened. A special meeting may also be convened
for the purpose of tendering a reception to the Grand Master upon
the occasion of his Official Visit to a Lodge or Lodges. Any of such
special meetings may be convened in the Lodge roo1?' at the Maso~ic
Home at Decoto, the Masonic Temple at Columbia, or, upon dispensation from the Grand Master, subject to such restrictions a.nd
notice to the members of the Lodge or Lodges as he may prescribe

. At our Stated Meeting of August 13th, 1951, the following resolution was presented and unanimously adopted with the request that it be
presented to Grand Lodge in October 1851, for their consideration and
'
if favorably received, be adopted by that Grand Body:
Grand
by
authorized
be
Service
RESOLVED, that a Memorial
Lodge for constituent lodges to be conducted by them at least once
each year, preferably in May, and that the Ritual Committee prepare and submit a proper ritual for the ceremony and procedure for
the ~ame, and that Grand Lodge cause the same to be printed and
furmshed to the lodges for their instruction and information the
same as is now furnished for the funeral service.
Respectfully submitted,
CARL C. MIKESELL, Secretary
Needles Lodge No. 326, F.&A.M.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
the Special Committee on Ceremonies.

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIFE MEMBERSH IP FOR 50 YEAR MEMBERS

the pr~c~dure had and that the member stands expelled from all :rights
and privdeges of Masonry, upon which he shall so stand expelled, and
the S~cretary shall transmit to the Grand Secretary a copy of the record
of said procedure and of the minutes of the meeting at which the expulsion was announced.
If the me~ber furnishes ~he notice required above within sixty days
after the J um or Warden mails to him the notice of intended expulsion
and either ?enies the .charge or makes some explanation showing ab~
s~nc~ of guilt, the J umor Warden may nevertheless file charges against
him m t~e usual way for unmasonic conduct in violating Section 21 O of
the Ordinances. If the member in his written notice to the Junior Warden or M~ster unqua~ifiedly admits his guilt, or that he is' a barkeeper or
that he is engaged m the saloon business, (except in connection with
and. as part of. the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant), the
Junior ~ arden shall mail him a second notice by registered mail as before stating that pursuant to his admissions he will be automatically expelled at the state·d· meeting. to be held next after the expiration of sixty
days after the mailing of this second notice unless, within said period of
sixty days, s~ch member elects in writing to be tried for the alleged
off~nse, and 1f such member does not so elect in writing during said
period of sixty da!s, .h e shall ?e ex~elled at the stated meeting next
held after the expiration of said period of sixty days in the manner
above set forth, and the secretary shall transmit the record as above to
the Grand Secretary.
W In lieu of mailing the notices above by registered mail, the Junior
T · arden may request the Master to authorize personal service by the
iler or some other member of the lodge appointed by the Master and
such. personal service and the certificate of the Tiler or other member so
:frvmg the ~~tice showing the fact and date of service shall be the equivent of madmg the notice by registered mail.
f Any Junior Warden having information of a violation of Section 210
~o~~e Ordinances by a member of another lodge in this state shall
h Y the Junior Warden of such other lodge of that fact and give him
sue information thereon as he may have.

At our Stated Meeting of August 13th, 1951, the following resolution
was presented and unanimously adopted with the request that it be
presented to Grand Lodge in October 1951, for their consideration and,
if favorably received, be adopted by that Grand Body:
RESOLVED, that, inasmuch as a member receiving a 50 year
button for continuous membership for that length of time, must be
at least seventy one years of age, and in most cases, unable. to continue in a legitimate occupation for a livelihood, that Grand Lodge
cause to have printed a Life Membership Certificate the same to
be furnished with the 50 year button to be presented to the Brother
entitled to that Honor.
The lodge does not consider that we are giving enough honors
to 50 year members who have served the Fraternity for that length
of time, nor are the constituent lodges furnished with a service for
the memory and respect for their Brethren who have passed into
the Great Beyond, except in Grand Lodge, where very few of the
membership are present from each lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
CARL C. MIKESELL, Secretary
Needles Lodge No. 326, F.&A.M.
Referred to the Committees on Finance and on Policy and General
Purposes

ADDITION OF SECTION 332Yz
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.:
I offer the following resolution:
Be It Resolved: That a new section be added to the Ordinances to
be numbered 332Yi, to read as follows:
Whenever the Junior Warden of any lodge in this jurisdiction
learns, or it is called to his attention, that a member of his lodge is a
barkeeper or is engaged either as principal, agent or employee, in the
saloon business (except in connection with and as part of the operation
of a bona fide hotel or restaurant) he shall send by registered mail, with
request for return card signed by addressee only, a notice to such member stating that he has been informed that such member is a barkeeper
or is engaged in the saloon business as above stated, and reciting a copy
of Section 210 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge in full, and stating
unless such member notifies him or the Master in writing within sixty
days stating whether he is or is not a barkeeper or in the saloon business,
and adding such explanations as he may desire, he will automatically be
expelled from the lodge at the stated meeting next after the expiration
of such sixty days, and at said stated meeting the master will announce

J

43

ALB.ERT F. Ross, P. M., Reading Lodge No. 254
....,~eferred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
-prudence.

AMENDME NT OF SECTION 332

~o the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California,

ree and Accepted Ma.sons:
I offer the following resolution:
ItdResolved: That Section 332 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge
en ed as follows: In the second sentence of said section after the

be!

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
words, "Thereu pon sixty days' notice in writing shall be given to such
Mason by registere d mail, forwarde d to his last known place of address," shall be added the following: "which, if he be then or has last
been known to be in a place of imprisonment or detention , shall be such
place of imprisonment or detention ,''.
ALBERT F. Ross, P. M.
Reading Lodge No. 254
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprud ence and on Policy and
General Purposes .

REPEA L OF SECTIO N 210
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California,
Free and Accepte d Masons:
I offer the following resolutio n:
Be It Resolved: That Section 210 of the Ordinan ces of this Grand
Lodge, relating to persons engaged in the saloon business and barkeepers, be repealed .
ALBERT F. Ross, P. M.
Reading Lodge No. 25i
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprud ence and on Policy and
General Purposes .

ADVA NCE NOTIC E OF PROPO SED LEGISL ATION
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
It is apparen t that many of the resolutions introduc ed and much of
the legislation proposed at Grand Lodge Commun ications is contemplated for some period of time prior to the actual opening of the Communications. Under the present system, Grand Lodge members are called
upon to act on such proposal s with at best a few days for consideration
and discussion and frequent ly with only a few hours for such consideration.
In an attempt to provide more time for discussion of proposed measures among Grand Lodge members and where desirable within constituent lodges the following resolution is presente d:
Resolved:
( I ) That members of Grand Lodge who wish to introduc e resolutions or propose legislation or initiate other action by Grand
Lodge are encourag ed to submit a copy of such proposal s to the
office of the Grand Secretar y in time to permit distribution of
these proposal s to the constitue nt lodges of the jurisdiction before the start of the Grand Lodge Communications.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

f
( 2) That the Grand Secretar y be instructe d to distribut e
~t
c:n~~ft:e
each
of
Master
the
;:ch ~rop_?sed le~islation to
dge m time for it to be received prior to the stated meet'
mg
of t~e l.odge immediately precedin g the Grand Lod ge c ommumcations.
( 3) !hat n~thing in this resolution is to be construe d as a rohibition against the spontane ous introduction of a resoluti p
pose~ acti_?n. the intent being only to provide mor o~.or ~o­
e ime or
cons1derat1on where possible.
MARVIN MARTIN, Senior Warden
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541
CARROLL PORTER, Master
Durant Lodge No. 268

Juri~~:~::~:.o the Committ~es on Policy and General Purposes and on
AMEN DMEN T OF SECTIO N 23J
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
The following proposal to amend Section 233 of the Ordinan ces of
thfoe Gra~dd Lo~ge Free and Accepted Masons of Californ ia is submitte d
r cons1 erahon:
Delete the first sentence which now reads:
Sec. 233

or i:'X~:~~e:: ~ha~ tltreedapplicants, whether fo~ degrees or affiliation,
e a ote on at the same meeting, a separate ballot
b
m
when three or more, the applican ts may be balloted
ach,
c~~~l~"e
onu~~ll:
The above to be replaced by:
Sec.233
"Applica nts, whether for degrees or affiliation • or b0 th • w ho are to
.
be balloted on at the sam
lectively at the discretion o~ t~:~:~~e~~y be balloted on singly or colRespectfully submitted,
CLARENCE C. SMITH, Senior Warden
San Mateo Lodge No. 226, F. & A. M.

Juri~e:~::~:.o the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on

46

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AMEN DMEN T OF SECTIO N 163
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
Wherea s Section 163 of the ordinanc es of Grand Lodge prohibits
membership in more than one Lodge in this jurisdiction at the same time,
and
Whereas , groups of Masons seeking a dispensa tion for the formation of a new Lodge often need the guidance of Past Masters as officers
but such Past Masters are unwilling to dimit from the Lodge they served
as Master, and
Whereas , Past Masters and members of this Grand Lodge have
sufficient experience as Masons to be trusted not to abuse the privilege
of belonging to more than one Lodge in this jurisdiction at the same time,
Now, therefore ,
Be It Resolved: That Section 163 of the Ordinan ce be amended to
·
read as follows:
"Sec. 163. No Mason shall be a member of more than one Lodge in
this jurisdiction at the same time, except as members of this Grand Lodge
acquire membership in a new Lodge by being named as an officer in a
dispensation or resulting charter."
Respectf ully submitted,
JoHN H. FERGUSON, P. M.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327
. ARTHUR J. S1SSONS, P. M.
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Jurisprudence.

AMEN DMEN T OF SECTIO N 301
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
I offer the following resolutio n:
Resolved: That Section 301 of the Ordinan ces be amended to read
as follows:
Sec. 301. Upon receipt of a copy of the charges by the Grand Secretary, the Grand Master, or the Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand
Warden , or Junior Grand Warden , if designat ed by the Grand Master
so to do, shall appoint the Master of the Lodge in which said charges
are pending, or any Past Master of this jurisdiction. in good standing
and skilled in Masonic Law. to preside at the trial. The person so appointed. if other than the Master of the Lodge, shall be known as the
Trial Master and shall have all the powers and duties of the Master of
the Lodge as prescribe d by Article IV of these Ordinanc es; provided,

47

hthowLoevder, thfat nothi~g. herein shall be deemed to prevent the Master of
d
ll '
ge rom rece1v1ng the ch
e
. ~rges, c; ~ng an presiding at the meeting for the election of Co
first meeting of the Comm~:~~~~~e~frec~~~g the ti~~ and place for the
. g. the g!vmg of notice to the
accuser, the accused and the TriaJ C
thh'e announcing
of the result of the ~rial in the Lodgeomm1ss1on~rbs,da~d
• as prescr1 e in t is Article IV.
M
P
AM t
h
tf .1
as er or ast aster who ca
witness, is disqualified to preside at~~~ tr:~~. y try t e matter or who is a
FRANK B. BELCHER, Past Master
Wilshire Lodge No. 445, F. & A. M.

Juri:::~:~:~ the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
AMEN DMEN TS OF SECTIO NS 133 AND 245
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
·
Article 4, Section 2 states·. "If an app l·icant,
elected to receive the
d
degrees in th· L d
ts o ge, oes not come forward to be 'n't· t d . h'
h
tlnl
t hree ~onths thereafte r, the fee shall be forfeited • unless ~;e1aLode gewith
s a
ot erw1se direct."
abo~roposed ~'?.endment: ~rticle 4, Section 2 to remain the same as

takin~ ~~! :::~nd !:: t~~i~ae~;e~~'. :.,~~f:e:a::i~~ms~l~ and complete .
1

1

tio~, the fee paid therefor, shab be fo~feit:~ 'y::~:s!r~h~
tLoheddatehofllinithia
ot erw1se direct."
ge s a

be ~~cti~n 2.45 (last part) states: "If the applican t be elected t

o ;emr~ tp m another Lodge within or beyond this 'urisdict'
er a
di:~e~n
or
Lod~e
his
by
w~1~er of jurisdiction, or dimit, issued
reore.
'
ha
fee
the
and
them,
of
any
or
degrees
the
ce1v1ng
forfeited
been
SHsAnLotL
under the provisions of the by-laws the Lodge
return to the
'
t th 1 1
applican t
or o e ega represen tative of the applican t ' as the case may
h d
f
be, t h e sum fixed by the by 1
- aws or t e egree or degrees not conferred."

SH~'"£f:~etJ;,endment: Same as above. except change the word
h Co~~e;t: Tdhishwill make it possible for the Lodge to refund the fees
w ere I is oun t at conditions warrant and would remov h
e t e present
mandato ry requirem ent to refund the fe;s in all cases.
Respectfully submitted,
F. T. NAGLE, Past Master
Utopia Lodge No. 537, F. & A. M.
.Refedrred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
I unspru ence.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

48

Monday afternoon:

ACQUISITION LASSEN BURIAL GROUND
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolution on Acquisition of Burial Location of Peter Lassen :
Resolved: That the incoming Grand Master, empower the Special
Committee appointed by Grand Master Arthur Paulsen, to proceed
with the acquisition of the land where Peter Lassen is buried. The committee is composed of Leon Whitsell, P.G.M., Chester Warlow, P.G.M.,
and Thomas B. Copeland.
That the Committee, subject to the approval of the Grand Master,
be empowered to spend a sum not in excess of $900.00 for surveys,
acquisition and improvements.
LEON WHITSELL, P.G.M.
CHESTER WARLOW, P.G.M.
THOMAS B. COPELAND, P.M.
Northern Light Lodge No. 190, F. & A. M .
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

SPANISH LANGUAGE LODGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED, that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special
committee for the purpose of considering and reporting upon the advisability of dispensating and chartering a lodge or lodges to work in the
Spanish language.
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE, P. M., Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

49

a dimit to the applicant's Lodge, and when the dimit is presented, shall
enter the applicant's name as a member of the Lodge as of the date said
dimit was granted."
BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 251 of the Ordinances of the
Grand Lodge of California be amended by deleting therefrom the last
two words reading "such filing", and inserting therefore the following:
"the date such dimit was granted."
Respectfully submitted,
WM. T. LISENBY, JR., P. M., University Lodge No. 394
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Jurisprudence.

Tuesday afternoon:

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 152
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the request of the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing
I respectfully recommend that Section 152 be amended by adding the
"Words "or Lodges" immediately following the word "Lodge" in the
second line of paragraph 2 ( b) as it appears in Ross Digest. The Committee has interpreted the law to mean that a Lodge or Lodges shall hold
a controlling interest in any such corporation. The basis for such interpretation may be found in Section 151 which provides that "a Lodge or
Lodges may hold shares of stock in a corporation organized for the purpose of purchasing, erecting or maintaining and holding title to real
estate for a Temple for Lodge uses," etc. Nevertheless, it is believed
that the suggested amendment is necessary to clarify a section of the law
which has caused a great deal of controversy.
Respectfully ~ubmitted,
E. J. BucKFELDT, Past Master, Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535
Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

AMENDMENT OF SECTIONS 250 AND 251
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master and Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California:
I submit herewith for consideration at the One-hundred Second
Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, the following Resolution :
BE IT RESOLVED : That Section 250 of the Ordinances of the
Grand Lodge of California be amended by deleting from the second
paragraph thereof (designated 1st) , the last sentence beginning "If
elected ...", and inserting therefore the following:
"If elected, the Secretary shall immediately forward such report for

Wednesday morning:

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 220
In order that all interested Lodges may have knowledge of a request
for a waiver of jurisdiction before such waiver is granted, we propose
that section 220 of the ordinances be amended as follows:
.. On line 5, 2nd sentence, omit word "Master" and substitute word
lodge."
On line 6, after the word " request", insert the words, "which shall

50

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

be read at the next stated meeting, and shall within 10 days notify such
other lodge or lodges of the request for waiver."
RICHARD H. STAINER, Senior Warden
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224
WILLIAM M. McKENNEY, Junior Warden
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224
Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Friday morning:

INCLUDING PRAYERS IN SHORT FORM
GRAND LODGE OPENING
Whereas: The simplified form for opening and closing Grand Lodge
in special communication as already adopted omits any mention of the
Grand Chaplain; and
Whereas: Masonic meetings of every character are traditionally
opened and closed with prayer and as it is believed the religious nature
of a Masonic Lodge and our dependence upon Divine Providence are
neglected by the newly adopted legislation, the Grand Lodge Communications for which the new ritual is designed contain important passages for use by the Grand Chaplain; now therefore be it
Resolved: That the Special Committee on Grand Lodge ceremonies
be instructed and is hereby ordered to revise the simplified opening and
closing ceremonies to include appropriate references to the Grand
Chaplain and the prayers which he customarily gives.
Respectfully submitted,
JosEPH C. Cox, Master
Signal Lodge No. 543
FRED B. GRAY, Master

R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616
Referred to Special Committee on Grand Lodge Ceremonies for
report next year.
The Grand Secretary was directed to send telegrams of greeting to
the absent Past Grand Masters.
At 12: 15 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 P.M.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

51

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 8, 1951

At 1 :30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The following visiting Grand Masters were received by the Grand
Master and were accorded the Grand Honors:
M.'.W.'.Ralph S. Nesbitt, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.
M.".W.'.Harold N. Nelsen, Grand Master of Masons in Washington.
M:.w:. Henry C. Nelson, Grand Master of Masons in Nevada.
M:.W:.Fred W . Moore, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were received by the Grand
Master and were accorded the Public Grand Honors :
M.".W.'.Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Oregon.
M.'.W. ".Asa H. Hankerson, Past Grand Master, Washington.
M:.W:.Kenneth 0. Wood, Past Grand Master, Colorado.
M : .W:.George R. Harvey, Past Grand Master, Philippine Islands.
M: .W: .Albert J. Brazee, Jr., Past Grand Master, Philippine Islands.
W.'.William B. Pettus, Past District Grand Senior Warden for
"
China, Massachusetts.
W. ·.Enoch B. Carlson, Grand Marshal, Oregon.
W.".Richard V. Carleson, District Deputy of the Grand Master
No. 27, Oregon.
Note : Although the receiving of Brother Pettus transpired at a subsequent session, it is listed above for convenience of reference.

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
For Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1951
To the Brethren of Grand Lodge:
In the Auditor's reports for the year ending July 31, 1951, will be
found Consolidated Statement of Assets Owned or Under Control of
Grand Lodge. and Liabilities. and Consolidated Statement of Cash
Receipts and Disbursements from Funds of or Controlled by Grand
Lodge for the same period. In the cash consolidated statement appears
an itemized statement of funds in custody of Grand Lodge and held in
operating funds. In exhibits pertinent to the consolidated statement of
assets and liabilities appear detailed listings of securities owned. It is
suggested to such members of Grand Ledge as are interested in reviewing the several listings ·o f securities that they will notice the different
types of securities that now are a part of the portfolio pursuant to the
new investment policy. Also in the exhibits will be found more detail of
receipts and disbursements and cash items: the increase in the endowment fund and how accounted for: securities purchased and otherwise

52

53

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

acquired and securities redeemed and sold: and the following ,pertinent
to Masonic Homes, balance sheet, statements of cash receipts and disbursements, revenue and expense, and direct and detailed operating
expenses of Decoto and Covina.
· It will be remembered that, at the Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge in 1950, a special committee on Investment of Funds, appointed
to consider the recommendation of the Grand Treasurer that Grand
Lodge adopt the "Prudent Man Rule" as an investment policy for its
various funds, submitted a favorable report which was adopted as to
policy. (Proceedings 1950, pages 105-109.) The report was referred
to the Committee' on Jurisprudence for legislation, which was formulated,
reported to Grand Lodge and unanimously adopted. (Proceedings 1950,
pages 246-247.)
Pursuant to that legislation the Investment Committee embarked
upon the responsibility of authorizing investments in consonance therewith. The committee, as of July 31, 1951, has consisted of the Grand
Treasurer, the Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of, the Committee on Finance, the President of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes, and the Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board
or a member of that board designated by him, and in this capacity
Brother Charles E. Moore was designated by the Chairman. Chairman
Bashor of the Endowment Board has also attended meetings.
This Committee duly organized and adopted a plan for conferences
at meetings to be held at stated intervals in San Francisco. Also, the
Grand Secretary was requested to act as Secretary of the Committee
and he has faithfully discharged that responsibility. After careful review
of the investment management service field, Moody's having been also
favorably recommended by the Assistant Grand Treasurer and having
submitted a statement of services contemplated for the guidance of the
Committee and compensation therefor, were selected as financial advisors for the Committee.
Moody's personal management service was organized in 1900 and
therefore has had fifty years of service business. Investment counseling
evolved in time to its present status about twenty years ago and now
accounts for approximately half the total business. At the time of inves- ·
tigation it had employed m investment advisor service, full time, 118
persons, and 17 part time. Al1 principals had had twenty years or more
experience. This is but a partial summary of the detail studied on a
current report on Moody's. A contract engaging Moody's Investors
Service was approved and the Chairman authorized to execute the same
November 16, 1950, for a term of one year from and after November
16, 1950.
Committee meetings were held November 16, 1950, and adjourned
to meet November 30, 1950, February 8, 1951, and May 24, 1951. The
foregoing are meetings during the fiscal year July 31st, 1950-51. Tht:te

has been a subsequent meeting, August 24, 1951. These meetings were
well attended and approved representatives of Moody's were present.
These were Messrs. Richard T. Langan. Pacific Coast Manaqer. resident in Los Angeles, and Frank H. Weyeneth. San Francisco Manager.
The Committee in its deliberations was guided by an agenda previously
prepared by the Assistant Grand Treasurer in conference with the
Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary, and included recommendations made by Investment Counsel a reasonable time in advance of the
meetings. Such counsel also has the entire investment portfolio of
Grand Lodge under continuous review and intermediate suggestions of
purchases and sales are recommended.
Thus far the Committee has determined to follow a defensive purchase program, which still continues. From December 1, 1950 through
July 31. 1951, the cost of securities purchased under the Grand Lodge
plan amounted to $1,032,701, and the market value of these securities
as of July 31, 1951, amounted to $1.086,871.
To date the permissible percentages of investments in securities have
not been reached. This is indicative of precautionary policy. The percentages in total are as follows:
Group I-Cash and Governments...............- .................... · 74.3%
Group II-Other Bonds and Preferred Stocks................ 6.4%
Group III-Common Stocks .............................................. 19.3%
The percentage return on total investments on November 30, 1950,
was 1.97%. As of July 31, 1951 the perecntage was 2.61 %.
Stated in dollars. the dollar income as of November 30, \ 950, was at
the rate of $120.597 per year. On July 31, 1951 it was at the rate of
$158.566.
The foregoing is submitted merely as informative with respect to
the results of the program to the end of the fiscal year.
In accordance with Grand Lodge regulations, all securities are at
present in the custody of the Anglo California National Bank of San
Francisco.
At the meeting on February 8, 1951, at the suggestion of the Grand
Treasurer, it was moved, seconded and carried that the auditor employed
by Grand Lodge be authorized to conduct a current audit of sales and
purchases of securities authorized by the Investment Committee, or
otherwise.
At the meeting -on August 24, 1951. subsequent to the fiscal year, it
was concluded to present a resolution to Grand Lodge to amend Section
~6, Subsection 4 by adding the words "or gift" following the word
bequest."
In accordance with the request of the Committee, the Grand Treasurer recommends adoption of the proposed amendment.

UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS
Detail of Maturity Series E-F-G
July 31, 1951

Note: Maturity values shown in dollars.
1954

1153

E

F

G

Grand l.ocllJ9.---· --·· 10.000
Memo.Uc Bom.._. ___ l.DllO

G

1956

1955
F

G

- ·--·

10,100

100

F

G

___

.......
-·-- - · · -

--·- 30,000
--- l 02.5CIG

·-·-··

90,000 -· - -

-·-

135.000

170.000

2.500

15,3011 -- - -

--

126.575

229.500

F

E

G

-- -·-··- - -- -· --- -·- ----- -- -- -

- - - ·--·-

Fmld - - · - - · -

8,000

--

125.175 -

10.000

P•riae l'und · - .....:_
EAdowment

85.000

-···-· - · - -

FUlld

5.000 41.500

40,000

2.175 17.200 4.125 110.100

100.000 ····- --·- ·-·

10,100

42.600

13.500

18.SOO - -

-

2.200 - 10.000

- - - -- --- - -- -

-- ---- - --------····- -- -

138,500 -

- ·-- 100.000

750

- -·- 100,000

7,500

"

---·.. --- ··------ -- -

--

- - 100.000

··-

980.000 •... 100.000

5.000

10.100

5,ooa

52.100

'3,600

141.375

43..llOG

-·--

10,00G

145,450

l.512.7GG

- - - . -. -----u-- ..... - - -- 18.200
---- -- ··-- ---·- - -- -- -···- -··- 10,000 ••.• - - - --

-···---

-- 18,200 35,000 -

44D.250 800

174.100 295.900

-

-·-

l47.5GG

2,200 242,SOG

·c

G

10,000 -

1.000

TOTAJ.a

···-

TOTALS

F

5,000

42.000 -

1,000

136,000 ···-·····-

G

····--·-

F'KDd - · - - - -··-Fii.ai Jlmaalty...-. l"llDI Traal

1.175 17,200 4.025

G

1981

1980

1959

F

F

G

124,075 600

lc:holarahip

J.L'and - - - 5.000 30.500
Luclrnhach
Fm1d
Wadlel9Ja

1951

1957

F

3,25CI 1,085,300 -· 100.GGI

S.911G 121,BGll

H.000
10,000

t.lll0,8Gll

UNITED STATES TREASURIES BY MATURITIES AND SAVINGS BONDS
July 31, 1951

Note: Maturity values shown in dollars.

FliAI Jlmaalty

89-64

7M5

72-67

10-75

A-1965

1955

21/t

2 1/i

2\12

2 1/J

2Y.

2\12

lY.

--

186,000

-···-

Grand Loclp
Masonic a-....._
BcJaolarahlp had

12-59

·····-

·-·-·--

-·-10.SOO

·-···--

l'and..-----.----·
.._....... ·-----··
EDdo....,..nt F1and.-------· --·

Fllat Trust
Perl.a• hDcl..

L11ckenbacJa l'wad
Wadleigh J.L'and--

- -.

TOTJWL--

10,500

-·-h•

--

-------

···-·--

--···10.000

165.000

·- -·----·

175,000

---4.000
---·-

--10.000

14.000

-

---

·-·-·

-··-·-

1.1100

--·-

- ·--5.000

E

--

F

G

TOT.ALI

135,000

170,000

501,000

128,575

ZZB,500

387,075
10.800

-----

H..-o-

10,100

5.000

-

52.100

43.SOG

15,700

141,375

43,800

111,175

--····

-·--·------

-····

·--

----

-···-

·---····

10.000

zo.ooo

5,000

12.000

160.000

7ZZ.000

5,000

145,450

l,512.700

2,727,lSCI

---

---·

-··-

18.ZOO

36.000

--

----

--

··--··--

10.000

52.200
20.000

6,000

12.000

165,000

111.000

5.000

626.800

z.oeo.aoo

3,H2.llOG

-

-·

---·-··

-·-

--

---··--·-

-·--

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At the same meeting it was concluded that when "not fully listed
securities" received by bequest or gift are to be held longer than one .
year, they then become a part of the total for purposes of percentages
invested in each category. This requires no amendment, but is mentioned
herein for the record.
There was an additional amendment recommended by the Committee, namely, that Section 86, Subsection 2 ( b) be amended by adding
the words '"or will be" following the word '"must." The purpose is to
confer the same authority on the Investment Committee with respect
to the purchase of preferred stocks as it has with respect to the purchase
of evidences of indebtedness, as related to listing. In accqrdance with
the request of the Committee, the Grand Treasurer recommends such
amendment to Grand Lodge.
One other interesting item relates to the sale of Treasury bonds in
1950. Fram the several portfolios marketable government bonds totaling
$1,559,000 at cost were sold on September 8, 1950 (which was before
the formation of the Investment Committee) for $1.5n,l l 6.05, which
resulted in a profit of $18,116.05. On July 31, 1951. our' year-end, the
market had dropped to $1.520,285.17, which would have entailed a loss
of $38,714.83, or a net difference of $56,830.88. ·
The accounting plan presently in operation is centered in the office
of the Grand Secretary, and, as a result. the contacts between the offices
of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer are numerous. It is my privileqe
and pleasure to compliment the Grand Secretary and his hard-workiiig
and faithful assistant, Henry Oliphant, and the office on the diligence
and efficiency exhibited. This is emphasized by the current audit of
Walter Parker, whose services also warrant special mention. It is not a
simple task and he cooperates courteously. It is my recommendation that
every member of Grand Lodge should make an effort to analyze the
Auditor's reports. The set up has been simplified from time to time so
that reports may be readily reconciled. In addition to informing themselves it is well that those who have any knowledge at all of investments
should afford the responsibile officers the beneflt of any suggestion.
See "Special Report-Trusts Turn to Stocks" U.S. News & World
Report. 9-28-51, page 50. copy of which is flied with original of this
report in the Grand Lodge office.

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

56

Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING

Grand Treasurer
Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

57

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Tenth Annual Report
as your Grand Secretary.
This has been an interesting decade of Masonic service, and I take
this occasion to thank Grand Lodge for the opportunity to serve and,
also, to thank the Grand Masters who have made all of this service so
pleasant.
The splendid cooperation of the Secretaries and the Inspectors continues: and it is because of this, and the excellent work of the Office Staff,
that we are able to handle the large volume of work which necessarily
flows through the office of a Grand Lodge as large as California.
MAGNOLIA PARK l..oDGE

u. D.

Magnolia Park Lodge U.D., located at Burbank, was instituted July
2, 1951, only 29 days before the close of the fiscal year. This Lodge did
not collect any dues during the year, and, at my suggestion, the Grand
Ma-;ter directed that they be not required to pay the per capita tax. It
is respectively requested that this be approved.
TRIANGLE l..oDGE No. 548

In m~king remittances to Grand Lodge Triangle Lodge No. 548
remitted $518.70 to the Endowment Fund in error. This amount should
have been a payment to Grand Lodge on the annual per capita tax. The
Grand Secretary requests authority to transfer $518.70 from the Endowment Fund to Grand Lodge to meet the deficit in the payment due Grand
Lodge from Triangle Lodge No. 548.
ELYSIAN LODGE No. 418

Elysian Lodge No. 418 reports under date of April 16, 1951, that a
duplicate payment was made to the Endowment Fund in the amount of
$226.50, the original amount having been paid May 12, 1949. The facts
as represented have been verified, and I recommend that authority be
given to the Grand Secretary to refund $226.50 to Elysian Lodge No.
418.
SAN SIMEON LoDGE No. 196

On August 24, 1951, the hall of San Simeon Lodge No. 196 was deA
•troyed by fire with the loss of all furnishings and equipment and, also,
the loss of the charter. Perhaps lightning does not strike twice in the
Bame place but fires do, because it is the second time this has happened
to San Simeon Lodge. At the direction of the Grand Master I issued a

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

duplicate charter to this lodge with, of course, the proper endorsement.
In spite of all our urging many Lodges still have not had their
charters photostated for which a simple procedure is set up in the Grand
Lodge Office. Unfortunately San Simeon Lodge was one of these, although, as heretofore stated, they had previously lost a charter by fire.
We again urge all Lodges which have not done so to send their
charters to us to be photostated.

tion. I recommended to the Grand Master the construction of a proper
vault in which valuable records might be stored. It was further suggested that the Temple at Columbia, because of its location, provided
an ideal place for such a vault.
The Grand Master approved the recommendation and authorized
the construction, which has now been completed. In company with
Chairman Ira Coburn of the Columbia Temple Committee, Architect
Donald Beach Kirby and Engineer Harold M. Engle, I inspected the
vault September 27, 1951, and at that time stored therein a complete set
of the Proceedings of Grand Lodge. Other valuable records will be
stored there in the near future.
In this connection I am recommending that the essential records of
membership, etc., be microfilmed for permanent record and stored in the
Columbia vault.

58

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Recognition of the Grand Lodge of Italy, 1950 Proceedings.
Page 87.
2. Public liability insurance, 1950 Proceedings, Page 197.
3. Report of the Committee on Masonic Information, Recommendation No. 2. 1950 Proceedings, Page 225.
4. Grand Master's Decision No. 7, 1950 Proceedings, Page 243.

.

CENTENNIAL BOOK
At the Last Communication of Grand Lodge the Grand Secretary
was directed to prepare a volume commemorating the Centennial Celebration. This is now in process of being printed and will be available for
distribution before the end of the year.

A~ENDMENT TO SECTION 101
It is my opinion that we work a hardship on members of Lodges from
other jurisdictions who desire to join in a petition for a dispensation to
form a new Lodge by requiring them to first dimit from the Lodge of
which they are a member. If the dispensation is not granted, they are
then without affiliation in any Lodge. I. therefore, recommend that Section 101 be amended to correct this requirement. .
AMENDMENT TO SECTIONS 176-250-251
The present regulations gover~ing the issuing and recording of dimits
and the completion of affiliation frequently create circumstances in which
continuous membership is impossible, thus breaking a member's record
of active membership in good standing. I, therefore, recommend revision
of Section 176. Section 250-1 st and 250-2nd.
VAULT AT COLUMBIA TEMPLE
Recalling the loss of the records of Grand Lodge in the disaster of
1906 and being aware of the possibility of war with its attendant destruc-

59

MEMBERSHIP
In presenting the membership totals I have taken the years 1940,
1941, 1945, 1950 and 1951. These years have been selected to indicate
the period immediately preceding World War II, the end of World War
II and the end of the ten year period of my incumbency as Grand Secretary.
A study of these figures will indicate the comparative growth, and
they do present some very interesting facts. The growth from 125,843
to the all time high of 202.500 indicates a net gain of 76,657. This is
j>robably not in proportion to the total gain in population in the state, but
is entirely in keeping with the traditional viewpoint of Masonry in general, and the Grand Lodge of California in particular, on the matter of
growth.
1951
1950
1945
1941
1940
2
1
6
6
2
New Lodges Formed..........
8,951
9,183
3,179
14.281
Initiated .............................. 3,143
Passed
13,272
8,745
9,125
3,031
3,063
12,833
3,105
8,909
9.406
Raised ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2,995
AfBliated
2,021
1,820
1.941
1,057
885
12
Gained by ·E~~;·::::::::::::::::
6
74
14
21
391
997
395
539
Reinstated ..........................
456
1,623
1,172
1,631
1,003
Withdrawn ........................ 1,128
Suspended for Non826
417
776
1,660
Payment of Dues............ 1,804
Suspended or Expelled
29
23
17
24
18
Lofor cause ..........................
4
7
13
75
29
Di:d by Error ....................
3,061
3,144
2,421
N n·-·················--·--·--·--··-- 2.105 2.188
o:mber of Members..........126,185 125,843 150,368 196,800 202,500
2,538
2,506
2,668
es Remitted.................... 4,513 3,983

60

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Loss ..................................... .
Gain ....................................
Number of Lodges ..............

1940
554

1941
342

581

582

1945

1950

1951

11,630
583

6,257
605

5,700
611

NEW LODGES

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
Los Altos Lodge U.D., located at Los Altos. Dispensation granted
February 5, 1951. The Lodge was instituted on February 28, 1951, at
Palo Alto, Right Worshipful Arthur W. Warren, Senior Grand Warden, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Michael Apcar, Herbert Sterling Bailey, Newton Wheaton Bailey, Edwin Clay Baird, George Bauer,
Eustace Charles Howie Carson, Clarence Frank Degen, Donald Paul
Dickerson, Lawrence Elliott Divoll, Carol Campe Fortriede, Eustie
Fletcher Freeman, James Morehead Gore, Elwood Fred Hansen, William Inglis, William Edward Jones, Otto Christian Klein, Franklin Max
Lannom, Donald Cook Matchan, Clarence Milray Merlinjone~. Adolf
Leopold Meyer, Nick Storm Nicolaisen, Marion Okley Pearson, Milton
Redler, Donald Earl Reinoehl, Earle Wallace Rother, Charles Washington Schenk, Charles Otto Vandersee, Roy Sylvester Walley, Milton
James Evans, John Weldon Stout, Clinton McCrea Roe, William Walter Streck and Frank Elwin Turner.
Castro Valley Lodge U.D., located at Castro Valley. Dispensation
granted May 15, 1951. The Lodge was instituted on May 19, 1951, at
San Leandro, Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Edgar Henry Barker, Edgar
Richard Barker, Frank 0. Brantley, Raymond George Bronson, John
Bentley Barrone, Newell Emmett Bryan, Charles William Christensen,
Jerome Claud Crawford, Burdit Oliver Culbertson, Vernon Edward
Cumins, Charles Arthur DeLong, Ralph Francis Eaton, Carroll Walter
Ferguson, David Malcolm Fry. Dale Herbert Goff, Leon Collier Grisel,
Ralph Elwood Harlan, Wallace Dale Harrell, William Schwatka
Hawes, Clyde Joseph Holton, Elmer Honsal, Carl Chris Jacobsen,
Joseph Eben Jenkins, William Elmo Johnston, Carl Flournoy LaVo,
Oscar Keith Lindblom, Glen Pierce Loomis, John Henry Loomis,
Severin Constantine Lundgren, James Owen Malone, Clarence Homer
McCulley, Donald A. McCullough, Arthur Rees McGinley, William
Joseph Nunes, William James O'Brien, Thomas Oliver Plant, Gerald
Henry Reilly, Martin Luther Reite, Bernard Grau Rix, William Sadler,
Lyle Shinnik, David EuHene Sonnichsen, Leslie Fairlee Spilman, Roy
Daniel Stoecker, Melvin Elroy Van Natta, Hewell Harvey Watlington,
Cletus Edward Welch, Lloyd George Woodworth, Jesse Carl Bunyard
and Charles Milton Conrad.

61

Blue Lakes Lodge U.D., located at San Bruno. Dispensation granted
May 18, 1951. The Lodge was instituted on June 16, 1951, at San
Mateo, Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: George William Brown,
Hector Campbell, Wallace Frederick Carlson-, Joseph August Castelli,
Raymond Marshall Chamberlain, Clinton Peter Colliander, Robert Collier, John Warford Dean, Frank Pelson DeVol, James Arthur Foster,
John Warren Getchell, Guy Gerold Gove, Alfred Hansen, Clarence
Walworth Hawks, James Joseph Hawks, Manson James Hilton,
Charles Richard Ireton, Harry Lester Jantze, Thompson Pearson Jarvis,
Lynn Sleegar Kavka, John Elmer Koski, Frank Ice Laughridge, Ernest
Philbert Lingren, Davis Nelson Mallory, Jr., George Boyer McCue,
Salvador Orville McDonald, Robert James McGahey, James Burt Mills,
Leslie Alden Molloy, Hans Edwin Olson, Vernon Orville Olsen, James
Morton Reynolds, Wilbur Lee Roberts, Frank William Rongey, Eugene
·James Rosson, Carl Victor Schwab, Marion Franklin Shumaker, Arthur
Helmer Solem, Harry Vern Ten Eyck, Lionel Richard Thommen, Carl
Oscar Thompson, Clyde Raymond White, George Frank Wilson ~nd
Richard Woelffel, Jr.
Magnolia Park Lodge U.D., located at Burbank. Dispensation
granted June 23, 1951. The Lodge was instituted on July 2, 1951, at
Burbank, Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, Grand Master, officiating.
The Charter membership is as follows: Calvin George Austin, John
Edwin Bixby, John Clark Colgan, Felix George Capo, Sidney Earl
Costello, Aaron DeBusk, Evan Lowell Eakin, Theodore Abbott Epstein,
Albert James Fluter, Edwin Theodore Fourcher, Reinhold Fiebing Hasselbring, Thomas Howard Henderson, Irvin Nealson Huffman, Ivan
John Kennedy, Douglas Raymond Krueger, Henry Jacob Lay, Arnold
DeLloyd Malcomson, Merton Gilbert Mathews, William Hogg McKinney, Harold Alfred Morrison, Harry Augustus Morrison, Edwin
Harlow Powell, Wayne Everett Redburn, William Rehrig, Jr., Charles
E~ward Selig, Charles Woffard Selig, Raymond Harold Shelley, John
Fillmore Sherrel, Harry Clarence Simmonds, Jeremiah Grant Staples,
Wallace Nelson Stockwell, Charles Otto Terry, Clifford Donald Van
Saun, Clifford Earl Van Saun, William Albert W, ·er, Robert Waugh,
Henry David Werntz and Douglas McKenzie W1 ,,n,
LIFE MEMBERSHIPS

The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:
Increasing fee: Alamo No. 122, to $400.00: Pentalpha No. 202, to
$~50.00: Doric No. 216, to $350.00: Bakersfield No. 224, to $312.50:
King Solomon's No. 260, to $375.00: Los Gatos No. 292, to $500.00:
Sequoia No. 349, to $312.50: San Francisco No. 360, to $312.50; Beth-

63

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

lehem No. 453, to $375.00; Golden Rule No. 479, to $300.00; Fremont
No. 497, to $500.00; Mount Vernon No. 517, to $375.00; Educator No.
554, to $350.00; Plymouth No. 560, to $400.00; Three Pillars No. 613,
to $600.00; Alta Loma No. 643, to $400.00.

Garden Grove No. 586, to $75.00: The Gardens No. 621, to $100.00;
Alta Loma No. 643, to $100.00; Hawthorne No. 647, to $100.00; Crescenta Valley No. 652, to $100.00; Greenlee£ No. 670, to $100.00.
Decreasing fees: Fruitvale No. 336, to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: California No. 1, to $20.00; Hollywood
No. 355, to $15.00; Ionic No. 520, to $25.00; Beverly Hills No. 528,
to $10.00; Hunters Point Naval No. 706, to $10.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Palm Springs No. 693, to $5.00.
Abolishing affiliation fee: Suisun No. 55, King Solomon's No. 260,
South Park No. 563.
Increasing dues: Alamo No. 122, to $15.00; Pentalpha No. 202, to
$15.00; Doric No. 216, to $15.00; Bakersfield No. 224, to $15.00; Brooklyn No. 225, to $15.00; Colusa No. 240, to $18.00; King Solomon's No.
260, to $18.00; Selma No. 277, to $15.00; Elsinore No. 289, to $15.00;
Los Gatos No. 292, to $18.00; Vallee de France No. 329, to $15.00;
San Pedro No. ·332, to $15.00; Fruitvale No. 336, to $16.00; Sequoia
No. 349. to $15.00; San Francisco No. 360, to $15.00; Amity No. 370,
to $18.00; Francis Drake No. 376, to $18.00; Fairmount No. 435, to
$15.00; Libertas No. 466, to $15.00; Acorn No. 494, to $15.00; Fremont
No. 497, to $16.00: Mount Vernon No. 517, to $18.00; Piedmont No.
521, to $15.00; Lakeshore No. 551. to $18.00; Educator No. 554, to
$15.00; Plymouth No. 560, to $15.00; Harding No. 584, to $15.00; Carmelita No. 599, to $16.00; Dimond No. 603, to $15.00; Elmhurst No.
610, to $16.00: Ingleside No. 630, to $18.00; Lomita No. 644, to $15.00:
Menlo Park No. 651, to $15.00; Far West No. 673, to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Suisun No. 55; Evening Star No.
186; Moneta No. 405; Lincoln No. 470; South Park No. 563; Military
Service No. 570: Southland No. 618; Ponderosa No. 700.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Reading No. 254.
Providing for holiday meetings: Concord No. 117; West Gate No.
335: Pinole No. 353; Parnassus No. 388; Inglewood No. 421; Golden
Rule No. 479.

62

DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Gold Hill
No. 32; Illinoistown No. 51; Union No. 58, Arcata No. 106; Doric No.
216; Snow Mountain No. 271: Porterville No. 303: Sun Garden No.
530: Seaport No. 550; Garden Grove No. 586; Tujunga No. 592; Pearl
Harbor No. 598; Benevolence No. 631; Victorville No. 634; Alta Loma
No. 643: A.F.E. Irwin No. 645; Citrol No. 656; John D. Spreckels No.
657; Reseda No. 666; San Clemente No. 671; Santa Ynez Valley No.
701: Lorenzo No. 709.
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected candidate within twelve months: Pittsburg No. 429; John D. Spreckels No. 657.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Naval No. 87; Monterey
No. 217: Vallejo No. 487: Stockton No. 498; Rialto No. 582; Laguna
Beach No. 672; Bixby Knolls No. 699; Santa Ynez Valley No. 701.
Special permission for the conferring of a Third Degree: Clovis
No. 417.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: San Simeon
No. 196; Snow Mountain No. 271: Oakdale No. 275; Morgan Hill No.
463; Menlo Park No. 651.
DISPENSATIONS DENIED

To receive the application of a rejected Candidate within twelve
months: Doric No. 216.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Arroyo No. 274; Military Service No. 570.
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Hawaiian No. 21, to $175.00: Trinity No. 27, to
$125.00; Suisun No. 55, to $75.00: Calaveras No. 78, to $85.00; Lexington No. 104, to $150.00: Vacaville No. 134, to $75.00; Wilmington
No. 198, to $100.00; Winnedumah No. 287, to $75.00; Los Gatos No.
292, to $75.00: South Gate No. 320, to $100.00: Sequoia No. 349, to
$100.00; Hollywood No. 355, to $125.00; le Progres de l'Oceanie No.
371, to $175.00; Huntington Beach No. 380, to $75.00; Honolulu No.
409, to $175.00; Bell No. 483, to $100.00; Ionic No. 520, to $175.00;
Beverly Hills No. 528, to $125.00; Park Boulevard No. 568, to $1~0.00;

Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Lassen No. 149: Los Altos
U .D.: Castro Valley U.D.; Blue Lakes U.D.; Magnolia Park U.D.
Miscellaneous: Culver City No. 467.
RESOLUTIONS

N Providing for change of meeting place: Fruitvale No. 336: Moneta
o. _.05: Atascadero No. 493: El Segundo No. 507: North Hollywood
~~ 542; South Park No. 563: Foothill No. 564; Military Service No.
An: Elmhurst No. 610: Southland No. 618: The Gardens No. 621:
N g;les Mesa No. 625: Greenleaf No. 670; Vista No. 687: Ponderosa
o. 00: Westchester No. 703.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
TRIAL RECORDS

No.

946-Petition for restoration. A member of Oakland Lodge No.
188. Expelled December 7, 1938.
No. 954-Petition for restoration. A member of Roseville Lodge No.
222. Expelled June 5, 1939.
No. 1053-Petition for restoration. A member of Honolulu Lodge No.
409. Expelled January 8, 1945.
No. 1098-A member of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366. Suspended January 16, 1947. Restored by Lodge action June 21, 1951.
No. 1149-Petition for restoration. A Fellowcraft of East San Diego
Lodge No. 561. Expelled August 5, 1948.
No. 1169--Petition for restoration. A member of Park Boulevard Lodge
No. 568. Expelled March 3, 1949.
No. 1185-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Suspended July
1. 1949. Restored by Lodge action May 4, 1951.
No. 1222-(Retrial). A member of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580. Expelled September 10, 1951.
,
No. 1224-( Retrial). A member of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568.
Expelled April 5, 1951.
No. 1225-A member of Oakdale Lodge No. 275. Suspended Septem.
her 12, 1950.
No. 1228-A member of El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576. Expelled
October 5, 1950.
No. 1229-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled October 13,
1950.
No. 1230-A member of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258. Expelled October 12,
1950.
No. 1231-A member of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657. Expelled
November 6, 1950.
No. 1232-A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Expelled November 7,
1950.
No. 1233-A member of Provident Lodge No. 609. Expelled November 6, 1950.
No. 1234-A member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120. Expelled December
7. 1950.
No. 1235-A member of Mountain View Lodge No. 194. Expelled January 2, 1951.
.
No. 1236-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled December 7, 1950.
No. 1237-A member of Whittier Lodge No. 323. Expelled January 4,
1951.
No. 1238-A member of Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331 . Suspended January 2, 1951.
No. 1239-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled October 2, 1950.'

65

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 1240-A member of Park Lodge No. 449. Expelled January 4,
1951.
No. 1241-A member of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530. Reprimanded
December 14, 1950.
No. 1242-A member of Mount Oso Lodge No. 460. Acquitted March
12, 1951.
No. 1243-A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Expelled
May 3, 1951.
.
No. 1244-A member of Carquinez Lodge No. 337. Suspended May
2, 1951.
No. 1245-A Fellowcraft of Eureka Lodge No. 16. Expelled June 4,
1951.
No. 1246-A member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120. Suspended June 7,
1951.
No. 1247-A member of Utopia Lodge No. 537. Expelled June 1. 1951. · ·
No. 1248-A member of Reseda Lodge No. 666. Acquittted December
7. 1950.
No. 1249-A member of Foothill Lodge No. 564. Expelled July 5, 1951.
No. 1250-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled November
7, 1950.
No. 1251-A m:ember of Norwalk Lodge No. 315. Expelled May 3,
1951.
.
No. 1252-A member of Yount Lodge No. 12. Expelled July 3, 1951.
No. 1253-A member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409. Expelled August 7,
1951.
No. 1254-A member of _Dinuba Lodge No. 385. Expelled August 14,
1951.
No. 1255-An Entered Apprentice of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled July 11, 1950.
No. 1256-A member of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389. Expelled May
l8, 1951.
No. 1257-A member of Composite Lodge No. 639. Expelled September 5, 1951.
No. 1258-A member of Downey Lodge No. 220. Expelled August 2,
1951.
No. 1259-A member of Victory Lodge No. 474. Reprimanded August 6, 1951.
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

2J·

Adams, Chas. Albert, P.G.M., Excelsior Lodge No. 166............•...May
l~gl
Anderson, Edgar Eug_ene Calexico Lodge No. 412......................June I .
Anderson, Frank L., Cres~ent Lodge No. 45....................................September 29, 1900
Andrews, Lewis Whiting, San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214......Novembel \J~~O
Angelo, Harry Amos, San Fernando Lodge No. 3'43....................0ctober 1,
~ng, John Samuel, Ontario Lodge No. 301..........................September 2, 1900

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

~er, '/}enry ~edrich,r!d Mateo Lodge No. 226____...........-May 21. 1900

ge No. 229.-....---..--~·-·····---·--·--------·April 29, 1901
Bachelder, Carl Ames, Live Oak Lodge No. 61............. ___________ June :l2, 1900
Bainbridge, C. E., Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281......................... _January 19, 1901
Baker, Francis Joseph, Excelsior Lodge No. 166............................Augqst 28, 1901
Barnett, Ethan Allan, Claremont Lodge No. 436............................()cipber l>. 1900
Bayne, Pierre Curran, West Lake Lodge No. 392.............- .........Pebruary 28, 1899
Beckett, Franklin Samuel, Durant Lodge No. 268....................-.Febtuary 2 1901
Bedford, William Wesley, Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281............ May 11, 1B99
BBeell, William, Honolulu Lodge No. 409.......................................... May 25, 1901
nder, Carl Godfrey, Excelsior Lodge No. 166..................- ....... March 23, 1900
Bernstein, Isaac William, Liberty Lodge No. 299..........................:... November 22, 1900
Bessac, Henry Williams, Jr.. Morning Star Lodge No. 68............ December 1. 1900
Biddle, Arthur Theodore, Alameda Lodge No. 167........................ June 27, 1901
Bidwell, Rolfe Bishop, Glendora Lodge No. 404............................ July 31, 1901
Blair, Robert William, Elk Grove Lodge No. 173.......................... June 29, 1901
Bosworth, Herbert Clark, Tuscan Lodge No. 261.......................... July 26, 1901
:owman, Donald Scott, Kilauea Lodge No. 330............................ September 2, 1901
riscoe, Ivan Bowen, Friendship Lodge No. 210............................ August 29, 1900
Brown, Charles Henry, North Butte Lodge No. 230...................... June 15, 1901
Brunswig, James Oscar Ludwig, Crockett Lodge No. 139............ Aug"5t 1, 1900
Buck, Ralph Aurelius, Glendale Lodge No. 544.............................. April 22, 1901
Bulson, Charles Hermon, Gold Hill Lodge No. 32.......................... March 13, 1901
Bums, Paul Milton, Humboldt Lodge No. 79..................................July 11, 1901
Butterfield, Fred Louis, Berkeley Lodge No. 363............................Fef>ruary 26, 1900
s,

67

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

eorge, olano

Callesen, Frederick Peter, San Mateo Lodge No. 226.................... January 16, 1897
§ameron, William Harry, Durant Lodge No. 268.......................... August 30, 1901
ampbell, Frank T .• Los Gatos Lodge No. 292.............................. June 12, 1900
Carlile, Charles E .. Marin Lodge No. 191.-.................................... September 26 1900
§:rlisle, Ernest Otway, Chino Valley Lodge No. 427.................. September 18; 1901
sh, Harry, Howard Lodge No. 37................................................ June 19, 1901
C avagnaro, David Emile, Calavaras Lodge No. 78.................... _..July 20, 1899
Cherry, Frank Wright, King David's Lodge No. 209..- ............... February 28, 1901
Churchill, David Lawrence, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.................. January 15, 1901
Clampitt, Harry Clark, San Fernando Lodge No. 343..................February 2, 1900
Clark, George Sherman, University Lodge No. 394........................ December 5, 1900
~fark, Henry Augustus, San Mateo Lodge No. 226........................ August 7, 1889
arke, Adna Girard, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21..............................June 16, 1898
Cl awson, Charles Wilson, Orland Lodge No. 265.......................... November 26, 1900
Clayes, Wellington Irwin, Occidental Lodge No. 22...................... June 17, 1901
~legrove, John Albert, Live Oak Lodge No. 61............................ May 18, 1900 .
Conner, Mayrant, Consuelo Lodge No. 325.......................- ............ May 12, 1900
ec!way, Meredith, Consuelo Lodge No. 325.................................. November 2 1899
Co n, William J., Lindsay Lodge No. 416........................................January 3, 1W1
C rdes, William Frederi~!vfi.WQD Lodge No. 169...................... April 24, 1901
No. 589.......................................... May 14, 1901
~wford, Frank, Kauai
Cr tes, Arthur Saxe, P.G.M.. akersfteld Lodge No. 224.............. February 21. 1901
oal, George James, Excelsior Lodge No. 166-.......................... August 8, 1900

L.00'13

gaVis, Henry Clay, LaFayette Lodge No. 126................................July 25, 1901
D~yo, Eugene Nelson, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.............................. May 28, 1901
1eue, Curt Paul, America Lodge No. 475....................................0ctober 21, 1901
00
D ~Jr• Fred, San Jose Lodge No. l~·-···-··---·········----·--···---~-...August 19, 1901
Donbge, Frank, Valley Forge Lodge r~o. 587.................................. November 8, 1900
u ar, Horace, Larchmont Lodge No. 614....... _ ... -..................... 0ctober 16, 1900

~:hardt~enry Lester, Elk Grove Lodge No. 173..... .................. September 21, 1900

Ell man. exis L., Fidelity Lodge Na. 120................................ -~ .. April 25, 1901
Wanger, Gustavus John, Tujunga Lodge No. 592................... September 28, 1900

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

Farnham, Daniel Cromwell, Bethlehem Lodge No. 453.......- ...... March 30, 1901
Faunt LeRoy, Joseph, Lindsay Lodge No. 416.............................. November 22, 1900
Feldhusen, John Henry, Union Lodge No. 58..................................January 9, 1901
Fell, Thomas, Mission Lodge No. 169...._ .......................................May 19, 1900
Fitzgerald, Clarence Asbury, Vallejo Lodge No. 487.................... July 17, 1901
Flack, James Maurice, Mission Lodge No. 169................................ June 26, 1901
Flanders, ~ay Johnson, Whittler Lodge No. 323............................ August l. 1901
Flournoy, William E .. Olivet Lodge No. 205.................................. December 8, 1900
Fogg, Edward Samuel, Wasco Lodge No. 583.............................. August 30, 1900
Forbes, John Franklin, Excelsior Lodge No. 166............................Tuly 24, 1901
Frahm, William Claudis, Seaport Lodge No. 550.......................... becember 29, 1900
Frampton, Arthur Edwin, Artesia Lodge No. 377.......................... 0ctober 6, 1900
Francis, Edward Henry, Educator Lodge No. 554.......................... Aprll 5, 1901
Freyermuth, Otto George, Jewel Lod11_e No. 374............................ Auguat 24, 1901
Furbush, George Ernest, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215.................... September 29, 1900
Fuson, Amandus tnysses, Presidio Lodge No. 354........................ May 4, 1899
Gabel, Phillip, Summit Lodge No. 112•...- ..................................... March 30, 1901
Gantner, John Oscar, California Lodge No. L.............................. November 9, 1900
Garrison, Fred Merrill, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38.......................... September 28, 1900
Genesy, Walter Alexander, Rockridge Lodge No. 468 .................. January 23, 1901
Gibboney, Edward Bruce, Seaside Lodge No. 504.......................... March 11, 1901
Gilbert, James Arthur, Mariposa Lodge No. 24.............................. May 9, 1901
Gordon, George Obld, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389...................... August 3, 1901
Grant, Edgar McLean, Western Star Lodge No. 2........................ May 26, 1899
Gray, George Adam, Live Oak Lodge No. 61................................ January 22, 1900
Green, Charles David, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.............................. September 21, 1901
Hall, Harry William, Natoma Lodge No. 64...............................-July 11, 1901
Hamilton, Clifford Boyce, Carpinteria Lodge No. 444.................... November 15, 1900
Hamilton, Henry John, Liberty Lodge No. 299................................ Aprll 20, 1901
Hammon, Percy Vernon, Southern California Lodge No. 278...... January 30, 1901
Hanson, Arthur Ferdinand, Naval Lodge No. 87 .......................... December 13, 1900
Hardin, Richard Owen, San Benito Lodge No. 21 L ...................... September 11, 1901
Harker, Oliver Albert, Occidental Lodge No. 22.-........................ September 9, 1901
Harms, Frederick William, Galt Lodge No. 267............................ March 9, 1901
Hartnack, John Charles, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42...................... May 28, 1900
Harvey, Leonard Frank, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241................. _Aprll 29, 1901
Hatch, Alvin Schuyler, San Mateo Lodge No. 226........................ Aprll 21. 1900
Hawes, Albert David, Santa Monica Lodge No. 307.................... Aprll 10, 1901
Heilbron. Irving Louis, Tehama Lodge No. 3................................ March 25, 1901
Heiner, Laurence Andrew, Redwood City Lodge No. 168............ December 15, 1900
Herbst, Adolph, Presidio Lodge No. 354 ...................- .................... December 7, 1899
Hersey, Elisha Atkins, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.--..--..............-1900
Hild, Frederic Waldorf, Wilshire Lodge No. 445.-..................... 0ctober 25, 1900
Hlll, Charles Nelson, LaFayette Lodge No. 126...........•........... _December 26, 1900
Hill, Nathaniel Mill, Garvanza Lodge No. 492.............................. February 20, 1901
Hines, George Clayton, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479.................... December 13, 1900
Hofman, Martin Meno, Live Oak Lodge No. 61........................._July 20, 1900 ·
Hulme, Charles Allen, Excelsior Lodge No. 166......................- ... April 4, 1900
Huntington, Ralph Stanley, Carquinez Lodge No. 337.................. February 16, 1901

~·John M., Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219...................-1900

lab. e, John, Solano Lodge No. 229.........- .................................._Auguat, 1901

Milton C .. Rockridge Lodge No. 468........................................ February 16, 1901

l

acobaon, Nels August, Durant Lodge No. 268.............................. February 16, 1901
•cques, James Alfred, Magnolia Lodge No. 242............................ September 6, 1901
~gellng, Julius Philip, Oriental Lodge No. 144--···-·---·--···- --0ctober 9, 1900
y, Frank Lee, Vesper Lodge No. 84.............................................March 22, 1888

68

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Jean, George W •• Sr., San Benito Lodge No. 21 !............................ February 11. 1901
Jonei;, George L., P.G.M., Madison Lodge No. 23......................March 26, 1901
onea, Thaddeus Alonzo, Western Star Lodge No. 2..........- ........ July 13, 1896
ordan, James H., Palestine Lodge No. 351...................................... bei:ember 29, 1900

J

Keep, Nigel, San Simeon Lodge No. 196•...... _............................... March 11, 1901
Kempston, Arthur, Excelsior Lodge No. 166.......- ........,................ March 17, 1900
Kiel, Frederick, Hollywood Lodge No. 355..- .................................. Auguat 10, 1901
Kirkwood, Emery Edgar, Orange Grove Lodge No. 293 .............. January 2. 1901
Kohner, lgnatz, Liberty Lodge No. 299-·-····················-······-·-·····June 8, 1901
Kreider, Joseph Charles, Fresno Lodge No. 247-··-···········-·········-July 2, 1901

Landrum. Thomas Moore, Liberty Lodge No. 299........................ July 13. 1901
Leavitt, Melville Elam, Eureka Lodge No. 16..........................•..... May 12, 1900
LeBaron, Chauncey Arthur, Vitruvlus Lodge No. 145•................. September 14, 1901
Lee, Ralph Cohn, San Mateo Lodge No. 226.................................,June 11, 1897
Levensaler, James Adams. Oriental Lodge No. l+f........·-·······----1900
Levy, Charles, Fidelity Lodge No. 120..................- ........................ Dec:ember 8, 1899
Lindeman, William Francis, America Lodge No. 475.................... Marc:h 15. 1900
Linscott, Harry Arlyn. Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38........•.................July 20, 1901
Long, Percy Vincent, South San Francisco Lodge No. 212.......... 0ctober 31. 1891
Loosley, Marlon Francis. Durant Lodge No. 268............................ July 20. 1900
Lorton, Frederick Douglas, Burlingame Lodge No. 400......••.•••- •. November 30, 1900
Ludwigsen, Charles James. Honolulu Lodge No. 409.................... JIJDe 18, 1901
Lund, John, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.-·······································-···July 22. 1901
McDennont, Arthur, Evergreen Lodge No. 259............................ July 13, 1901
McGilvray, John Duff, Jr., Mission Lodge No. 169...•........••·---···May 8, 1901
McGuflin. Isaac, McKinley Lodge No. 347.................................... April 24, 1901
Madeira, William Ives, Parnassus Lodge No. 388........................ March 3, 1901
Maeder, William Richard, Southern California Lodge No. 278.... November 30, 1900
Marwedel, Charles Walter, Excelsior Lodge No. 166.................. August 28, 1901
Mayall, Edwin Lyman, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19..- .................... August 1, 1900
Meister, Albert Rheinhardt, Union Lodge No. 58.......................... December 25, 1900
Moncur, James Ogillvie, Plumas Lodge No. 60.........·-············-···-F•bruary 5, 1901
Morgan. Wesley Eugene, North Star Lodge No. 91... ................... May 8. 1901
Muller, Peter Henry, Crockett Lodge No. 139................................ April 25, 1900
Munter, Carl, Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281.................................... May 7, 1898
Murman, Peter, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.......................................... Aprll 15. 1901
Myrick, Nathaniel Willis, Southern California Lodge No. 278.... January 30, 1901
Nathan, Myron Sol, Tehama Lodge No. 3...................................-May 24, 1901
Neustadter, Louis W., Fidelity Lodge No. 120....................•..- ...•. Auguat 15, 1901
Newall, Martin, Mission Lodge No. 169...........................- ............. 0ctober 31, 1900
Nourse, Sterling B., Alamo Lodge No. 122...................................... ~r 12, 1900
Olson, Oscar H., Benicia Lodge No. 5--·-·-···························-···--··Matth 30, 1901
Ottenheimer, Sigmund W., Fidelity Lodge No. 120........•.·-······-·November 22, 1900
Page, Horace L., Lindsay Lodge No. 416....·-····························--Iune 22, 1901
Parrish, John E., Arroyo Lodge No. 274................- ................•-August. 1897
Pasco, Sumner Edward, Martinez Lodge No. 41..........................•. April 13, 1901
Pate, John William, Highland Park Lodge No. 382.............•..•..-Ai>ril 16, 1900
Patterson, Henry Hawley, Alameda Lodge No. 167.................•.. N"ovember 26, 1900
Paulson, Walfred Louis, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.......•...••.•......--luoe 24, 1901
Pease, Arthur Henry, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.............•........• _•.. Aprtl 12, 1901
Pedersen, Bernhard Stark, Crockett Lodge No. 139...............·--·-September 25, 1900
Penry, Henry Lincoln, McKinley Lodge No. 347........................-Marc:h 4, 1901
Perkins, Frederick King, Live Oak Lodge No. 61...........- ..........•.. July 27, 1900
Perry, Frederick Jewell, Excelsior Lodge No. 166.........•..... _..•...• May 15, 1901
Peterson, John Arvid, Balder Lodge No. 393...........................- ..... March 28, 1894

69
DATE OP RAISING

Petrie; Lester, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21............................................ June 26, 1901
Pierce, C!arence Warner, Wilshire Lodge No. 445...................... May 21, 1901
Proll, William Reginald, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260............ April 29, 1901
Prowse, Thomas Harvey, Summit Lodge No. 112................•......... October 20, t 900
~ndolph, George Emerson, Live Oak Lodge No. 61...--........... September 21, 1900
J21olmaAsdAlbeErtl, CDoallaydomLoiLodge No. 282............................ March 8, 1901
Reeaed,
g, J.AJU s
am,
ra o dge No 26
D mbe 17 1900
Reid, Archibald, Mission Lod e N 0
· ···········-······-··········-· ece
r •
•
ml
F
d
J
g
169.·-··-···-··········-·-···-··March
2, 1901
.
R1cco • re erlck oseph Egali, South San Francisco
3
01
.....- .....
Robinson, Fred, Humboldt Loci e No 79
·
·······-···
'
Rolfe, William Jasper, Nevada ~od ~ N~··································-··· arch 27, 1900
.
g
· 13...•................•.........•. Aoril 18, 1900
. s I
RO!l!IIck• F rank, Kmg
o omon s Lodge No 260
J··' 23 1900
J
h
F"d
1·
Loci
.
···················-········· Awy •29 1901
Roth.sc h"ld
1 • o n, 1 e 1ty
ge No· 120.•.••........•...................•......
ugust,
RddH
EGd
u • omer ., ar ena Lo dge
h 5 1901
. No · 372...................................... Marc,
R unc klG
e , eorge HMcld
., c ou Lodge No 430
N
b 3 1900
R
II J
Ph
Lo
. . ························-····- ovem er •
'
R
'1 a~es, C llenlx ~e No. 178............................................ January 1, 1901
Ry er, rEn15w1 ah a~I
r:,e· No. 282 ....................................•... December 14, 1900
yerson, .
g t,
rona dge No. 324..·--····-·····················-Aprll 3, 1900
~ahd, HSry, ~rSsnA~dge~o. 247_···-···-···-·················-·-··Aprll 27, 1901
ens dge No. 228................................- .. August 24, 1901
an edrs, Aamuhe .•
Saun ers, rt ur Btttram, Mount Davidson Lodge No 481
February 16 1901
Sause, Clifton Archibald. Oakland Lodge No. 188
·
·-·····January 12 't901
Sh
I
B~rukcL,
h KlI auea Lodge No. 330.......•......................
························ aouary 19,' 1901
c oe~, I rvFngd
S crogmgs, re enc Igo, San Mateo Lodge No. 226...............•.. November to, 1897
Shackelford, Jesse Bell, Tehachapi Lodge No. 313..;•·············--···Fehruarv 4, 1901
Shane, Charles Nelson, Live Oak Lodge No. 61............................ Novemher 16 1900
Shartzer, Th~mas Farrington, Excelsior Lodge No. 166.............. June tS, t90l
Seling, Christian Hanson, Fresno Lodge No. 247.......................... 0ctober 5, 1900
Sherer, Edward T., Southern California Lodge No. 278
February 27 1901
Simon, Philip, Crockett Lod e No 139
················
'
S Ith F nk W I
M g
·
····--···················-··········-···July 2S, 1900
Gesley, 0 lsslon Lodge No. 169.,............................ Auqust 28, 1901
m.th' Thra
Sm1 • omas a en, cean Park Lodge No 369
ber 20, 1900
· Las p almas Lodge No· 366···-··············-··· JN ovem
SmIth , Th omas Morns.
Staff
d J h I
C
·
························ uoe 12 • 1901
orC,h o n Fvy, k apital City Lodge No. "199.•••.••••...•.- ...•....••.• August 28, 1900
Stem,
1
ares
ran , Pentalpha Lodge No· 202 ··-···········-··········· A ugust tA-.. 1901
Stetth eImer, W a Iter W ., Fidelity Lodge No.
120....................... _.Auaust 15. 1901
Stevenson, Samuel Boyd, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.......... April 30, 1900
Stewart, George Allen, Calaveras Lodge No. 78.•.......................... July 11, 1901
Stoutenburgh, Edgar Charles, California Lodge No. 1.................. November 15, 1900
Street, Richard W., Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478
February 1... 1888
St d J h D B l d
Lo
····················
-..
S rou , Jo n Albe ve ere dge No. 539...................................... May 23, 1898
stutr ame~ F dibraLoLodge No. 322........................................ April 12, 1901

Ri~~~o~~G~~9;·W~rth:"CSb;;;t;;·R;;~k°L~g;·N;;··41(i

J~an;tl1'2 l9Jf

w:r

0

s0v~te:.aI.o~is ~~~!y. ~~~~~~ ~<lii;··N~~··44:z::::::::::::=::::=::ii:; ~8 •1 ~b 1

1

Talt, AINexthander, Arlington Lodge No. 414......................................January 17, 1901
T arr: a an Winship, Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408.................. January 28, 1901
Temll, William Thomas, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296.................. March 5, 1901
Ratcher,C~ug h ~ngton, Pomona Lodge No. 246...................... August 17, 1901
Thomas, J bar
aJyne, Vallel Lodge No. 135........................ December 1, 1900
..,,._ omas, oCn ays, r., Euclid odqe No. 519............................•. March 1, 1901
~ nompson. harles Jefkins, Mission Lodge No. 169...................... December 12, 1900
Thompson, Charles Wesley, Chino Valley Lodge No. 427.......... July 17, 1901
Thrall, Frank Hurshall, Mission Lodge No. 169............................ July 6, 1901
Tickner, James Franklin, Corona Lodge No. 324.......................... April S, 1901
Trapani, Antonio, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219·--·····-·····--1900
Treadwell, Edward Francis, Mission Lodge No. 169.................... August 14, 1901
Tullis, Guy Edwin, San Bernardino Lodge No. 648...................... April 27, 1901

1M

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

70

DATE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE

Uhl. George, Live Oak Lodge No. 6L-·---··-···········-···············-··~pt~ ~i·of 900
Utz, Gustave, Orland Lodge No. 26S....- -··-·································· ar
· Lod N 0 169
luly 31. 1901
Varne , John Warner, Jr., M .ission
ge
•
····················-··Novem
ber 23, 1900
).
t
Jacob
Santa
Ana
Lodge No. 241........................
V lsel• ugus us
•
N
vember
1900
Wachs, Harold, Oakland Lod~e No. 188....•................................... O~tober 16,17,1897
254
Walker, Albert Edward, Re~ding Lodge No.
·····-··················· Februa 27, 1901
Warden, Leslie Edwin. Mann Lodge No. l9L..................
....•...... Feb ry 10. 1900
Weems, Harry Leroy, Welcome Lodge No. 255 ····························D ec: 21, 1895
Wehrly, John, Santa Ana Lodg.e No. 24 1........................................ Jul 30, 1901
Wells, Norton Chamberlin. Oriental Lodge No. 144...................• MJ 8, 1901
Whitten, Samuel Dennis, East Gate Lodge No. 290······················ Ap~l 6 1901
Wilcox, Glenn A., Martinez Lodge No. 4 1......................................
1901
Wilkin, William, Burlingame Lodge No. 40(L.............................. l'fae 22. 1900
Williams. John Butler, Acom Loc!ge No. 494.................................. 190{
Williams, Richard Holbrook, Cl~1borneLodLodge:o·3jg5 ...........- ... September, 1897
Williamson, Alexander John, Kilauea
ge o.
·················· October
1900
Wilson, Alvin Brice, Martinez Lodge No. 41 ..·-····························· December6, 18.
1900
Wilson, Charles Allen, Golden State Lodge No. 358·················· Au ust 17. 1901
Wire, James Elzy. Athens Lodge No. 228 ······-······························ Mag 22. 1901
Wishard. Harry Dickerson, Kauai Lodge No. 589 ........................ M/ 10, 1901
Wixson, Robert Stanton, Live Oak Lodge No. 6 1..·············· ···-···Ma~ch 18, 1899
Wood, Clarence E .. Oakdale Lodge No. 275 ···············-··················June 8, 1901
Woodwor th, Arthur Gustav, Enterprise Lodge No. 70................ Ma
30. 1901
Wri ht, Park B.• Redondo Lodge No. 328 ·························:············Jun~ 3, 1901
W~ck, Henry Frank, Sequoia Lodge No. 349--···························
11 1901
Zsch ei·1e, F re deri ck p a u1 • Chowchilla Lodge No. 485...................... May •

ti

Respectf ully submitte d,

Referred to the Committ ee on Segregat ion.

71

REPOR T OF THE GRAN D LECTU RER
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge
Free and Accepte d Masons of California:
With this, the first year of the second century of Masonry in California rapidly drawing to a close. it is again afforded me the pleasure
and the privilege of submittin g to this Grand Lodge the Annual Report
of the Grand Lecturer , as required by Section 50 of the Constitu tion. I
am reminded that, if this year merits no other distinctio n, your Grand
Lecturer can at least boast of having been accorded the honor to serve
the last year of the first century and the first year of the second century
of the existence of Masonry in Californ ia. And to you, my Brethren , I
am indeed grateful for the opportun ity to serve.
Condition of Lodges
Reports received from Inspecto rs of the Masonic Districts throughout the jurisdicti on indicate lodges are generally in a good condition , and
while applicati ons for the degrees of Masonry are not as plentiful as they
have been in recent years, there are still sufficient candidat es to permit
officers of lodges to maintain a fair degree of proficiency and an abundance of enthusia sm. This, in my opinion. is a healthy condition , as it
gives opportun ity to plan program s for the spiritual and intellectu al improveme nt of our members and allows time for social and fraternal intercourse. The successfu l Master is one who. not burdened with too much
degree work, has arranged his program so as to attract the maximum
attendan ce of his members througho ut his year, and who is not discouraged because his initial attempts may not have been successfu l. The
so-called "Degree Mill" is attractiv e to none but the officers in line, and,
to them, only because of the opportun ity afforded to succeed to higher
stations. As attendan ce at meetings and active interest in all lodge functions are of vital importan ce to the well-bein g of a Masonic lodge. we
should therefore discoura ge as much as possible the conferrin g of multiple degrees. and with patience and persever ence endeavo r to arrange
program s sufficiently interestin g to encourag e participa tion by our members. The officers, however , should be as letter-pe rfect in their work as
possible and thorough ly intereste d in their duties, for there is nothing
more importan t than the ritual of our Order when degrees are being
i;:onferred.

Visitations Made
During the past year I have had the pleasure to be present at, and to
participa te in. many Grand Lodge ceremoni es througho ut the State.
Without exceptio n the attendan ce of the Masons in the immedia te
vicinity was excellen t and the little courtesie s extended your Grand
Officers were many. In addition to my regular duties it was my pleasure

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to attend numerous schools of instruction in the Sacramento and San
Joaquin Valleys, and I was, on each occasion, thoroughly impressed by
the excellence of the work exemplified. I wish to commend the Inspectors
of these Districts on the results of their labors. Many invitations received
by me were impossible to accept because of conflicting commitments or
distance involved.

Inspectors' Spring Conferences
Too much emphasis cannot be placed upon the value of the Inspectors' Spring Conferences, conducted by the Assistant Grand Lecturers of the six Divisions in the early part of the year. Coming as they do
when the Inspectors are schooling their newly installed officers in their
ritualistic work. these meetings serve to eliminate error and at the same
time to establish confidence. I attended all five of the Spring Conferences
(I mention five because two of the six Divisions in the State combined
for their meeting). and was deeply impressed by the thoroughness with
which the work was performed. At each of these meetings we were
favored by an informal address of approximately two hours in length by
our Grand Secretary, Lloyd E. Wilson, who, at the direction of the
Grand Master. was present to give enlightenment on some of the questions which are frequently asked of the Inspector. Brother Wilson's
contribution to the success of these meetings was acclaimed by the Inspectors throughout the State. and it is generally hoped that future
Grand Masters will issue similar directives . .

Conference Meeting Dates
Division 1and2 (combined): June 8, 9 and 10 at Lake Tahoe: conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturers Gilbert C. De Forest, P.G.M .• and
Mervyn E. Hanshaw.
Division 3: May 11. 12 and 13 at Guerneville. conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer Elbert W. Davis.
Division 4: June 1, 2 and 3 at Yosemite Valley: conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer Raymond G. Taylor.
Division 5: May 25. 26 and 27 at Santa Barbara; conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer Guy B. Mize.
Division 6: May 4. 5 and 6 at Del Mar, San Diego County: conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer Augustus H. Allen.
There is no greater reward to be achieved from a job well done than
the personal satisfaction resulting from accomplishment. The Assistant
Grand Lecturers ask no words of commendation, but I would be remiss
were I not to call attention to the excellent work they have done and to
personally thank them for their co-operation.

Change in Numbering of Districts
At the last Communication of the Grand Lodge legislation was

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

73

~o~ei
to. increase the number of Divisions in the State, and the num0
r

ssis~ant Grand Lecturers, from four to six. This has resulted in

~eat~r Lefficienc).and closer contact between Inspector and Assistant

ber~n ecturer. . he Grand Master this year has undertaken the renumf r~~~ of ~he vari~us Masonic Districts throughout the jurisdiction to
aci ate t e ocatmg of _a particular District by its number, using only
sevenD~u~bers, ~~s.leavmg expansion joints for the possible addition of
new istricts. Division 1 (in the extreme northern part of the State) is
now composed of Districts 102 104 106 t . D' · ·
202 204 206
'
d
•
• e c.. ivision 2. of Districts
f •h
etc., an so on down to Division 6 in the extreme southern
pa~ o ti e tate. Both of these changes in our system have met with
umversa approval and are working well.

1

t

S

New Assistant Grand Lecturers
the resignation last year of Brother Obed W C
Rit With
I c
·
. arr from t he

ua
ommittee, the elevation of Brother Frank Harwell Jr t th
station of Junior Grand Warden, and the creation of two ne~ o'tvi~onse
~e ~rand Master was faced with the necessity of appointing four neV.:
G ~l:tan~ ~an; Lecturers. The brothers chosen to fill the vacancies
i rt· · e orest, P.G.M., Raymond G. Taylor, Guy B. Mize and
Augustus H. Allen, are too well known as exceptional ritualists to warr~nt any comment on my part. The resignation of Brother Carr as Assistant Grand Lecturer wa.s a distinct loss to the Fraternity and a ve
ry
personal loss to me. He will be missed on the Ritual Committee.

Ritual Committee Meetings
A sp~cia~ Ritual Committee Meeting was held following the last

C~mmumcation of .Grand Lodge and several were held in conjunction

with the Inspectors Spring Conferences.

The Inspectors
With. the formation of many new Districts in the last two years, and
the appointment of a sizable number of new Inspectors to fill vac
·
ca d b
.
.
ancies
~se
Y resignations; many new faces have been added to the Inspectorial. Corp_s. I have met all of these men personally. have seen most of
them m action, and feel assured that better selections could not have bee
made. They are fine ritualists, ardent Masons and worthy of their pre~
fe:ment. But the Inspectors that I choose to particularly pay tribute to in
this report are the "Old-Timers", led by that grand old man of Maso
CI~rk H. S~aw, who has more than forty years of continuous dis~~~
gui~hed service as Inspector to his credit, and who is still young and very
active. He is the inspiration we should endeavor to emulate. Other In-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

spector s with more than twenty years of continu ous and outstan ding
service are:
Karl L. Ratzer..................................................30 years
John M. lcardo ................... ~ ............................30 years
Ralph M. Foote..................:...........................29 years
S. Leslie Hawke n ................. - .........................26 years
Clarenc e L. Fraser......:................................... 24 years
William S. Thotnp son ....................................23 years
Rudolp h Mohr. Jr .....·--··································22 years
George P . Salm.......... --································--21 years
There are still others in our group who have served Masonr y long
and well. To all of them go my thanks for their splendi d co-operation.

THE MARK S OF A MAST ER MASO N

An Increase in Appropriation Requested
At the last Commu nication of the Grand Lodge addition al funds
were appropr iated for the use of the Ritual Committee and for the necessary travelin g expense s of the Inspect ors. It has been found that the
amount request ed by the Grand Lecture r and approve d by the Grand
Lodge has been insufficient to take care of increase d costs and the addition of two new Assista nt Grand Lecture rs to the Ritual Committee,
and the appoint ment of an addition al number of Inspectors. Rigid economy has been exercised during the last year, even to the extent of combining our Ritual Committee meetings with the Spring Confere nces in
order to keep expense s down. Notwith standin g, our appropr iation has
been exhaust ed without meeting all importa nt needs. I therefor e respectfully request that the sum of $9500.00 be set aside for use of the Ritual
Committee during the ensuing year.

Conclusion
In closing, I again wish to express my appreci ation to the Assista nt
Grand Lecture rs and Inspect ors for their earnest cooperation and sincere
friendship. To the Grand Secreta ry. Lloyd E. Wilson . for his splendi d
contribu tion to the success of our Spring Confere nces. And to Henry D.
Oliphan t, Assista nt Grand Setreta ry, and the personn el of the Grand
Lodge office. go my hearty thanks for the many little favors and courtesies extende d me during the last year.
And to you, my Brethre n, my especial thanks for the opportu nity to
serve.
Respect fully submitted.
WALTE R H. E. VON KoNSKY . Grand Lecture r
Reques t for appropr iation ref erred to Committee on Finance .

EDWARD H. RoWINS , Grand Orator

75

. ~-;..;;~:~1miit

Most Worshipful. distinguished Past Grand Masters. Officers.
Members. and Guests of this Grand Lodge- Brethre n all:
Several weeks ago during the progres s of the trans-Pa cific yacht race
one of the occasional but dramati c incidents of the sea occurred. A crew
member from one of the competing yachts was lost overboa rd. Before
speed could be slackened so that the yacht could turn around and effect
his recovery, he was lost in the vastnes s of the great Pacific. For more
than thirty hours there was no trace of him, and the feeling grew that
further search would be futile. Just fifteen minutes before the order came
to abando n the search, crewme n of a navy rescue craft sighted and saved
the solitary figure bobbing on the sea. Truly a miracle had been realized.
In the interviews that followed, this question was inevitab ly asked
o_f the man who h~d ~~en lost-"W hat did you think about during the
tlDle you were adrift? Natural ly, the immediate hope and expecta tion
had been of rescue since his fall into the sea had been observed. But as
the yacht sailed beyond his view and the hours slowly passed without
sight of help, decreas ing hope must have been followed by increasing
fear. During these hours he reporte d he thought of all the things he had
ever done, and even more of the things which should have been but
were not done'. Certain ly no circumstances could produce a situatio n
more conducive to great soul searchin g and critical self appraisa l.
You and I will probabl y never have an experience of just this kind.
But this man's experience should make crystal clear to all of us the
necessi ty of so living from day to day that in our respective hours of
crisis, and such experiences come to all, we shall in our own hearts and
minds not be found wanting . If we practice diligently the tenets of
Freema sonry that we know so well, we can and will achieve a pattern
of living equal to all occasions. With this thought in mind I'd like to
have you join with me in exploring some of the aspects of living which
ought to charact erize the Master Mason.
Some years ago there was published a book entitled. "'!'he Marks of
an Educate d Man", which became a best seller of that day. It was
extreme ly popular because the author sought to do what is always intriguing but what is not always simple- namely , to analyze the qualities
of persona lity and charact er which make for successful living. People
being what they are, there is within the heart and mind of every person
the continu ing desire. sometimes weak and sometimes strong. but everpresent. to discover ways and means of living more richly and more
fully than he has before. It is this spirit which account s for whatev er

76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

progress man has made and may make. Let us think together, therefore,
of what are, or perhaps should be, the marks of a Master Mason.
As a major premise of our present consideration no statement could
be more significant than these brief words of a fellow Californian, Edwin
Markham.
We are all blind until we see
That in the human plan
Nothing is worth the making
Unless it makes the man.
Why build these cities glorious
If man unbuilded goes 7
In vain we ·build a world
Unless the builder also grows.
Free Masons are in the finest sense of the word, and in accordance
with their rich traditions, builders-builders today of huqi.an character
even as their operative forebears were builders of stately cathedrals. In
both kinds of endeavor certain common qualities are essential. These
are the marks of a Master Mason to which we shall devote our thought
and our attention.
The Master Mason, more so than other men, must possess an inquiring mind. Our great ritual is nothing but meaningless words and
empty forms unless we probe ·beyond the symbols to discover the ideas
and the ideals which they represent. Back of every material thing, there
was first a plan; back of the plan, there was first the inspiration born of
and from an inquiring mind. Today there is a great tendency for people
to be superficial in many ways. We are prone to take for granted the
comforts of life, the achievements of science, and the human liberties
wihch have made them possible. We cannot, we dare not fall into such
ways, without placing in jeopardy the values which free men have always cherished. The key to our survival, the key to our progress, is to
be found in the cultivation of an inquiring mind. This is one mark of a
Master Mason.
The Master Mason, more so than other men, must be a skilled
craftsman. Whatever his work, whether it be in business or on the farm,
trade or profession, he should take pride in doing a superior job. The
very word "Master" suggests competence of a high order. We must not
be satisfied with less. What would this nation be today if the men and
women of yesteryears had assumed an attitude of "good enough" What I have done is not my best, but it will get by? History is full of
examples of primitive societies where basically this attitude dominated
and was responsible for their elemental mode of existence. History is
also full of examples of great civilizations, which having risen to new
heights of cultural achievement, decayed and fell when the spirit of the .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

77

people became one of "good enough." It is not the lot of every man to
be a leader, but it can be the lot of every man to make his contribution.
Let us always remember what the historian Green has told us, that the
world is moved not only by the mighty shoves of the heroes, but also by
the aggregate of the tiny pushes of each honest worker. This quality
is also the mark of a Master Mason.
The Master Mason, more so than other men, must be an understanding friend. An American patriot once stated during the critical
years of our nation's birth, "These are times that try men's souls." The
same sentiment can be repeated today with equal fervor and with equal
justification. We are again engaged in a great human conflict, the contributing factors to which are many and varied; and yet which in the
final analysis stem from the fact that we have not yet learned how to
live together as friends and brothers. Obviously, there is no simple
answer to the present complication. However, of this I am very sure, a
spirit of sincere friendship, based on mutual respect for our fellow men
because of their dignity and worth as human beings, will provide the
only satisfactory climate in which differences can be resolved. This is
easy to say; it is difficult to achieve. To have a friend, one must be a
friend. This too is the mark of a Master Mason.
The Master Mason, more so than other men, must be an exemplary
citizen. The teachings of our fraternity are the same principles which
undergird real democracy. No matter what its form or name may be, any
government whose sovereignty is vested in its people can be only as
strong as they are intelligent and responsible in meeting the demands
imposed on free people. America today has the novel and diffcult role,
whether she wants it or not, of being a world leader. Her success, as well
as the fate of millions throughout this world, will be conditioned in
large measure by the maturity, the courage and the devotion we display
in the discharge of our civic obligations. Do you vote at each election for
which you are eligible, first having studied the relative merits of the
issues and candidates which may be under consideration? How well do
you support your duly elected officers as they seek to do their duty,
sometimes in the face of strong pressures not in the public interest? Is
law observance a good thing only so long as it applys to the other fellow? These and other tests will provide simple answers to the question
of how well we are meeting our acknowledged responsibilities. Good
citizenship is an essential mark of a Master Mason.
The Master Mason, more so than other men, must be a person of
ICrupulous integrity. The legend of the third degree, one of the landmarks of Freemasonry, is an impressive illustration of this important
Virtue. The significant human freedoms which have been won over the
ages at so great a price-the right to worship God according to the
dictates of one's own conscience; the right to peaceably assemble, such
as in a Masonic Lodge; the right to speak one's thoughts, so long as they

79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

are free from slander: these and all of the other cherished rights of free
people--can continue to exist only where a nation's citizens manifest
a high order of personal integrity. All social institutions--our governments, our schools, our churches, our businesses-will be strong and
effective in direct ratio to the integrity of their members, and especially
of their leaders. As we evaluate the life of our times, feeling deep concern
about the precarious state of national and world conditions, is it not
probable that one reason for our present plight is the light regard among
too many people for this quality of personal integrity? Constancy of
character, based on righteousness and morality, is a clear mark of a
Master Mason.

ancient Institution.
A year ago the Grand Orator of California Masonry's centennial
year, in an extremely able address before this Grand Lodge, presented a
challenge for the Master Masons of this jurisdiction to continue building
well the Unfinished Temple. A strong foundation was laid and a fine
superstructure erected in the first hundred years. It becomes our task
now to provide the detail and ornamentation which will make this Temple not merely functional but truly beautiful. We can accomplish our
mission only if we are strong in those qualities which we have discussed
this morning. Are they in a significant measure characteristic of you?
Do you have an inquiring mind, a probing spirit, always seeking to
extend your intellectual horizons?
Are you a skilled craftsman, ever proud of the contribution you can
make to the world of work?
Are you accepted as an understanding friend, interested in and able
to see in all men their true potential as members of the human family?
Do you exemplify the attributes of a good citizen, being one who
knows and accepts the responsibilities attendant to your community's
welfare?
Are you one whose integrity is such that your word is regarded as
good as your bond?
Do your decisions reflect a high level of values in which considerations of prime import always come first?
Is yours a faith which gives to all life meaningful purpose and intelligent direction?
If these things are true, you are indeed proceeding in the ways of a
Master Mason.
May this hour be one of solemn rededication to the task that should
consume us all-that of building finer and nobler personality and character. To the end that all who know us may see in the work we do and
in the lives we lead the true marks of a Master Mason, let us be guided
by the thought of John Ruskin who once said-"When we build, Jet us
think that we build forever. Let it not be for the present delight nor for
present use alone. Let it be such work as our descendants will thank us
for, and let us think as we Jay stone on stone, that a time is to come when
those stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them,
and that men will say as they look upon the labor and wrought substance
of them-'See! This our Fathers did for us.'" .

78

The Master Mason, more so than other men, must have a substantial
capacity for weighing values. Life in one respect may be regarded as a
continuous experience of making choices. The decisions men accept
materially shape not only their own lives, but may profoundly influence
the future of all those associated with them. The real measure of any
man is to be found not in what he professes, but in how he lives. As the
well-known American essayist, Ralph W a]do Emersor{, has put it
"What you do speaks so loudly I cannot hear what you say." You and I
daily condition the future of ourselves and of our families by the alternatives we select in any given situation requiring deliberation and decision.
Fortunately, as Freemasons we are in possession of criteria by which we
can :make intelligent, ethical judgments. To the extent that we do so, we
are demonstrating a quality which is still another distinguishing mark
of a Master Mason.
The Master Mason, more so than other men, must have a vital faith,
a faith that transcends mere worldly knowledge, a faith born of the
experience that when human strength and wisdom fail, divine assistance
is a real and present resource. The life of any individual is immature
until he comes to recognize and accept his own inadequacies and his own
]imitations. In some high moment of genuine humility he may discover
the truth of that seeming paradox, to save one's life he first must lose it.
Out of apparent defeat can come great victory. God is good. We must
know Him and be His if our lives are to reflect the divine destiny inherent
within each human spirit. Dynamic faith of this kind is a basic mark of a
Master Mason.
It will already have been noted by many the repetition of the phrase,
"The Master Mason, more so than other men, ..." The meaning of this
should be readily evident. The fraternity of Freemasonry accepts for
membership only good men of high purpose. Let me say at this point,
parenthetically but with emphasis, that if we fail in this respect we have
failed in our obligations. The charge you know so well might properly
be recalled to mind-namely, that you will refuse to recommend anyone
to a participation in our privileges unless you have strong reasons to
believe that by a similar fidelity he will ultimately reflect honor on our

A motion by Deputy Grand Master, Loui~ C. Drapeau, prevailed
~uesting the Grand Orator to deliver a copy of his oration to the Grand
~etary for printing and distribution to the Lodges.

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION

To THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Segregation to which has been referred the annual message of the Grand Master, the report of the Grand Secretary,
and the report of the Grand Treasurer, respectfully submits the following report:
It is recommended that the following portions of the message of the
Grand Master be referred to the respective committees designated as
follows:

1. The suggestion that Magnolia Park Lodge, U. D. be relieved of
the requirement to pay the per capita tax for the fiscal year ending
July 31, 1951.
2. The request that authority be given the Grand Secretary to
transfer $518.70 from the Endowment Fund to Grand Lodge to meet
the deficit in the payment to Grand Lodge from Triangle Lodge No. 548.
3. The request that authority be given to the Grand Secretary to
refund to Elysian Lodge No. 418 $226.50, being a duplicate payment
made to the Endowment Fund.

To THE COMMITTEE oN JURISPRUDENCE

Decision No. 1 :
Relating to the promise of the applicant for Degrees that he would
not "within twelve months after receiving the Degree of Master Mason
apply for or receive any Degree or be initiated in any body, order or
organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be
'
a Master Mason."
Decision No. 2:
Relating to the interpretation relating to Section 151 of the Ordinances authorizing deposit of lodge funds in a bank or banks.

81

To THE COMMITTEE ON PoLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES

1. The recommendation that Section 101 be amended, dispensing
with the requirement that a member of a lodge from another jurisdiction
be required to first dimit from his own lodge before joining in a petition
to form a new lodge in this jurisdiction.
2. The recommendation to revise Section 176, Section 250-1, and
250-2 covering the issuing and recording of dimits so as not to break a
member's record of active membership in good standing.
It is recommended that the following portions of the report of the
Grand Treasurer be referred to the respective committees designated as
follows:

Decision No. 3:
Relating to the right of a subordinate lodge to control the expenditure of funds.
Decision No. 5 i
Relating to the problem of physical disqualification arising after
election.

To THE COMMITTEE .ON FINANCE

1.

The recommendation to amend Section 86, sub-division 4, by
following the word "bequest."
2. The recommendation that Section 86, sub-division 2 ( b) be
amended by adding the words "or will be" following the word "must."

ad~ing the words "or gift"

Respectfully submitted,
BYRON COLEMAN

To THE COMMITTEE oN FINANCE

CHARLES A. THOMASSET

1. The request for an appropriation of the sum of $1,500.00 in
connection with ·the preparation of a script for a motion picture for the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes and the Endowment Board.

PAUL

Adopted.
To THE COMMITTEE ON PoLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES

Decision No. 4:
Relating to the election of an applicant who may have been guilty of
a felony prior to his petition for Degrees.
It is recommended that the following portions of the Report of the
Grand Secretary be referred· to the respective committees designated as
follows:

s. BOREN

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC HOMES
To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Fifty-Ninth Annual Report, fqr the year ending July 31, 1951,
together with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes, and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met on October 13, 1950, after the adjournment of Grand Lodge, for the purpose of organization. The election of
Louis Drapeau, Deputy Grand Master, Arthur M. Warren, Senior
Grand Warden, and Frank Harwell, Jr., Junior Grand Warden was
formally reported to the Board and on motion duly made, seconded and
carried, they were elected members of the Board.
The Secretary reported the appointment by the Grand Master of
Charles M. Wollenberg and Ralph H. Head to the Board for a term
of three years and on motion duly made, seconded and carried, they
•
were elected members of the Board.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees :
Term Expires

L. Harold Anderson ___________________ J 95L------------·---······-····-·-Ralph H. Head
Chas. Albert Adams.·--···-·····-·-----1952..............................Myron E. Smith
Charles M. Wollenberg............. J 953.·---·····--··-----·-·--···----- Leonard Gross
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Charles M. Wollenberg
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Leonard Gross was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling is
Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of ·California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, F. &
A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary
of the Masonic Homes of California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

Mounting costs for the operation of business generally in the country and the ever-increasing cost of living likewise make themselves felt
in the operation of both our Homes.
The Board is of the opinion that the brethren of this state, while
not approving extravagances or unnecessary expenditures, do not desire
the service in these two Homes to be any less than that which should
reasonably be provided and it is inevitable that costs will increase
generally in proportion to other similar costs elsewhere.
During the year the Board has had the advantage of studying the
report prepared by the State Department of Social Welfare following
their survey and study prior to renewing the state license at Covina.
Tmis report covers thirty-nine typewritten pages and contains much
information both by direct statement and by analysis, that is both
interesting and helpful to the Board.
It is not possible or desirable to reproduce the report here in full,
but a few excerpts are interesting. Referring to Superintendent Henry,
the report states, on Page 5, .. He is an indefatigable worker, who does
not spare himself in his earnestness to maintain the highest standards
in every unit of operation."
Referring generally to the increasing cost of maintenance, the report
states: "The per capita cost for food, which includes food for twentyfive staff members, averages approximately $32.00 per month. This
should be ample for a well-balanced and nutritious dietary."
Concerning the declin·e in admission and population over a period
of years, the report, in advancing reasons therefor, states, .. Another less
obvious cause for decrease in population may be found in the increased
public interest in services to children, which is reflected in Social Security benefits, Veterans' benefits, family service agencies, extended day
centers, family counselling, etc."
These few quotations merely serve to point the way toward some of
the problems which confront the Trustees and to which they have been
giving attention over a period of years. The Board's own study, analysis
and charting of population trends and causes, recently completed, is
undoubtedly the best study of its kind ever made of the Home at Covina.
BUILDING OPERATIONS

GENERAL

Included with the report of this Board, prepared for distribution, are
the reports of Superintendent James R. Eubanks of the Home for the
Aged at Decoto and Superintendent Robert Henry, of the Home for
Children at Covina.
These reports contain many pertinent facts about the daily operations of the Homes and the Board urgently requests that they be re~d
by all interested in the programs of these two homes.

In order to attract the better type of institutional worker to our
Childrens Home at Covina, your Board found it necessary to rehabilitate and modernize our employees' residence. After a survey by our
Architect, Brother Earl Heitschmidt, plans were made and specifications
prepared for competitive bids. The Pozzo Construction Co., as the lowest bidder, was awarded the contract. Rehabilitation was commenced
dtll'ing the Summer and the building will be ready for occupancy about
October 1, 1951. We now have 15 single and 3 double units with all

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

modern facilities, including a lounge or solarium on each floor of the
building.
MOTION PICTURE

At the beginning of his year and upon joint recommendation of the
Endowment Board, and the Board of Trustees of the Homes. the Grand
Master appointed a Special Committee on a motion picture of the
Masonic Homes. This committee has made its report to the Board of
Trustees which has reached the following conclusions: a professionally
made colored motion picture of the Masonic Homes is de8nitely needed
for its educational value and to carry the story of the Homes to members
of the craft throughout the State. Only a small portion of the membership can be reached by speakers during Endowment Month.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

At the conclusion of the fiscal year ending July 31, 1952, it will be
possible to re-examine our funds, and perhaps. at that time, we may be
able to recommend a partial reduction of the per capita.
We call the attention of the brethren to the manner in which the
balance sheet and related schedules have been prepared. The form has
been simplified and we feel that it is clearer and more understandable
than previously presented.
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG, President
LEONARD GROSS, Vice-President
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
L. HAROLD ANDERSON

ENDOWMENT FUND

The Masonic Homes Endowment Fund is one source of support for
the operation of the Masonic Homes.
•
Complete details of this fund will be found in the auditpr' s report.
A brief summary of it follows :
Total July 31, 1950........................................ $3,856,514.17
Contributions through Lodges...................... 241 ,939.20
Received from bequests. ...........................~..... 103,500.69
Received from other sources..........................
42,761 .75
Total July 31, 1951 .•...................................... $1,2i1,715.81
During the year ending July 31, 1951, Masonic Homes received
$106,106.09, the income from the Endowment Fund, for the operating
funds of the Masonic Homes.
FINANCE

During the last fiscal year, it has been possible to operate the Homes
on current income without reaching into reserves. As a matter of fact,
a surplus of $113,622.63 was accumulated in spite of the rising tide of
inflation. This was accomplished without sacrificing the high standard
of operation or deferring any necessary expenditures.
It is too early for the Homes to benefit from the expanded investment
policy of Grand Lodge. The tremendous task of converting and reinvesting securities will take some time and we anticipate that the
advantages of this new policy will bring fruit by the next Annual
Communication.
·
We, therefore, recommend that the per capita tax of $1.00 be continued ·for the coming year.

85

Loms C. DRAPEAU
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
RALPH H. HEAD
MYRON E. SMITH
ARTHUR M. WARREN

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: I herewith present for your consideration my eleventh
annual report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Decoto, for
the year ending July 31, 1951, and the 53rd Superintendent's report of
the Home.
In reporting the activities of the Home for the past year I find there
have been few changes in the general routine of the affairs at the Home
to report, however, the ranks of the staff has suffered a very severe loss.
Miss Ester G. Payne, who was head of our hospital department for 30
years, terminated her services with the Home last October, and Mrs.
Virginia M. Lord, who was for 15 years assistant in the hospital, and
for the past 10 years Matron of the Home, found it nee'.essary to resign
in December.
Miss Bess Payne, who had been assistant, took civei; the responsibilities of the hospital, and Mrs. Mildred Harris, who was associated
with the University Mound in San Francisco for a number of years,
was appointed Matron.
Our endeavors to maintain a social atmosphere among the members
of the Home, which would be in keeping with the high ideals of our noble
fraternity, has met with satisfactory results. A large majority of the
Home family seem to be very happy and contented, and are enjoying to
the fullest the many comforts the Home has to offer. The members of
the Home are showing a greater interest in the general routine work
and a larger number are contributing, willingly, their part according to
their strength to the well-being of the Home.
The general health condition of the members of the Home has been
very good during the past year. Those who are infirm and feeble.. 64 in
number, are being cared for in our hospital where they receive night
and day attention and service.
There were on August 1, 1950, the beginning of our fiscal year,
being cared for in the Home, 176 women and 118 men. During the year
22 women were admitted, average age 77.95 and 25 men at an average of
76.2. During the sa,me period we lost by death 22 women, average ago
82.2 and 22 men, average age 82.95. There were withdrawn during
the year 4 women and 5 men, leaving at the end of the year 116 men
and 172 women, the average age for men 78.9, and for women, 79.42.
Included in this number are 9 married couples.
Age groups are as follows:
Men
Women
1
Between 50 and 60 years.................................. 3
60 and 70 years.................................. 9
14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

..

87

75
70 and 80 years.................................. 44
69
80 and 90 years .................................. 53
13
90 and 100 years.................................. 7
as
in-so-far
year
past
the
during
busy
quite
been
has
Home
The
social activities are concerned. Thirty-five Lodges visited the Home,
1O presenting programs, and 25 conferring degrees, 4 Job's Daughters
Chapters, 2 Rainbow Girls, and 1 DeMolay Chapters presented programs, and the Elks Club of San Francisco, under the sponsorship of
Brother Robert Peabody, Secretary of Lincoln Lodge, presented a
minstrel show. In addition to these 'programs our Home talent has
planned, developed, and presented several programs, and stage shows.
Adult training which the members received from the Washington Union
High School, which our good friend Warren Gravestock, Principal of
the school provided, assisted very naturally in the development of their
stage plays.
The East Bay Past Matron's Association, who have been making
their annual pilgrimage to the Home for the past 30 years, held their
reception for Worthy Grand Matron Margaret H. Lauretzen, and her
corps of Grand Chapter Officers on August 19. Presented their usual
excellent program, and a very generous supply of jams, jellies, fruit, and
many very useful articles of clothing which they had made for the members of the Home.
The East Bay Masters and Wardens, under the leadership of their
President Elwood D. Bona, visited the Home on August 20, 1950, enjoyed a barbecue and presented an excellent program. In addition to the
above programs we are deeply indebted to the following Film Distributing Companies for excellent programs they provide each week "gratis"
-R. K. 0., Columbia, United Artists, Warner Bros., M. G. M., and
Twentieth Century Fox. All the programs were fully enjoyed by all the
members, due to the fact that ear phones have been provided for those
who's hearing is impaired. The ear phones were installed at the request
of Past Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg, President of the Board
of Trustees of the Home.
Sixteen jurisdictions, and 78 Lodges were represented among the
2782 who signed our register during the past year.
Each Sunday throughout the year Devotional Services are conducted
by the Ministers of Southern Alameda County. Rev. Hinshelwood,
· Chaplain, conducts services one Sunday each month, and appoints the
Ministers who serve the other Sundays. The messages these Reverend
gentlemen bring are greatly appreciated by the members of the Home.
The library is always a very popular place. It is kept well supplied
with daily papers, periodicals and an assortment of fine books. Many
of the members of the Home spend very happy hours in this department.
Grand Master Arthur Paulsen, in company with Mrs. Paulsen, made
his official visit to the Home on July 27, 1951. A reception was held in

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

89

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

their honor, and they were entertained with a program especially arranged by the members of the Home for the occasion. Many of the
Grand Lodge Officers as well as the Trustees of the Home have honored
us with visits during the year. Such visits are always appreciated not
only by the members of the Home, but also by the management. It is my
desire, at this time, to express my sincere appreciation to the members
of the Board of Trustees of the Home for their helpfulness in dealing
with, and the kind consideration they have always given to, the various
problems of the Home.
There has been no change in the rental arrangement of the farm land.
The returns from that portion of the farm which is retained for Home
use are as follows:
Fruits fresh .••:..........·-······-···-·········-·····-·-···$ 79.00
" frozen ............................................ 385.00
dried .............................................. 343.75
$ 607.75
Hay ....................................................................$ 300.00
Meat, Pork, 28 carcasses, 7058 lbs•.................. 2,117.40
67.50
Walnuts ............................................................
Vegetables .......................................................... 215.35
$3,408.00
2 Sows ...................................................................................... 200.80
$3.608.80
CANTEEN

Cash receipts ......................................................................... $6,<f 19.60
Inventory ··-·..··························--·····················$ 327.21
From Commissary ............................................ 5,419.78
$5,746.99
Inventory July 31, 1951..............................less 273.83

$5,473.16

Salaries

$ 946.H
240.00

$ 706.H
In conclusion I want to express my appreciation of the efficient and
conscientious work on the part of our department heads and our employees. I also want to express my sincere gratitude to the many members of the Home for the aid and support they have given me.
Fraternally submitted,

J. R. EUBANKS,
Superintendent

Report of the Superintendent - Covina Ho~e
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is my privilege and pleasure to present to you my third annual
report of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina for the year ending
July 31, 1951.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

The population of our Home Family, as of July 31, 1951, numbered
sixty children. Thirty-four boys and twenty-six girls. An increase of
three children over the preceding year. Twelve children have left us
during the year - eleven boys and one girl. Of this number five were by
graduation from Covina Union High School and six went to re-established homes. One girl entered Chaffey Junior College in February and
four ·boys plan to attend various colleges this fall. Eight boys and seven
girls, ranging in age from five to fifteen years, were admitted to the
Home during the year.

Family Status
Orphans
H/O Fathers Living
H/O Mothers Living
Both Parents Living

Children
5
9
17
29

Families
2
6
14
16

38
60
Family relationships within the Home consists of the following: One
family of four children: three families of three children: thirteen families
of two children each: twenty-one families of one child. Nine children,
representing six families, are in the Home under membership of the
grandparent. Total number of Lodges having wards in the Home thirty-six. The average length of children's residence in the Home has
increased to five years. Our youngest member is five years of age and
our oldest member is eighteen years of age. Thirty-five children will be
enrolled in Charter Oak Grammar School on September 12, 1951,
kindergarten through the eighth grade and twenty-five children enrolled
at Covina High School, ninth grade through the twelfth.
CHURCH, ScHOOL AND COMMUNITY AcTIVITIES

Weekly attendance at church and Sunday school is part of our
Home Family program and the children are encouraged to attend the
church or Sunday school of their choice. The children have made progress in the public schools of the community and have participated in
many school events and sports programs. Laura Allison and Patricia
Beard, both of the class of '52, successfully competed in the school
Oratorical Contest. Of particular sig~ficance is the fact that the Masonic

90

91

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Home boys, in competing in a track and relay meet with eight other
Homes of similar purpose, not only achieved recognition by winning
events, but. were selected by the officials conducting the meet and by
repre~entation of each competing team, to receive a sportsmansh ip trophy
for displaying the highest qualities, which I believe is a tribute to the
organization they represent. Six Senior boys are members of George
Washington Chapter, Order of DeMolay. Twelve of our Intermediat e
and Senior girls are members of Bethel No. 98, Order of Job's Daughters.
On May 26, 1951, Sue Jane Burkhalter, '52, was installed as Honored
Queen of Bethel No. 98, and Patricia Beard, '52, was installed Senior
Princess. William Burkhalter, class of '50, received the Chevalier Degree, Order of DeMolay, for his outstanding work while a member of
the Home.

trips. Swimming, hiking, fishing and horseback riding were a~ong the
outdoor sports in which the campers participated and each evening they
slept under a blanket of stars. The trip was primarily of an educational
nature with recreation and entertainme nt of secondary value. The success of this venture can best be measured in years to come by their
appreciation of the hidden riches of our golden state. In our attempt to
relive and recapture, in part, some of the historic traditions and hardships of our forefathers. (with our modern convenience s) each was left
with a feeling of humility for their Masonic heritage. At Corona del
Mar under the direction of Mrs. Henry, a summer beach house was
rent;d for the pleasure of the Junior boys and girls. Each group enjoyed
two weeks of the special kind of freedom so dear to the hearts of growing youngsters.

LODGE VISITATIONS

ENTERTAINM ENT

The deep interest in our Home and in the welfare of our children,
as shown by the Masonic Lodges and affiliated organization s, has been
very gratifying. We are indeed sincerely grateful for the ~upport of our
friends, not only in visiting the Home, but in their untiring interest and
loyalty as expressed by generous donations of every description, a record
of which will be found in another section of this report. Our children and
staff were happy to welcome to the Covina Home a total of three thousand, five hundred and fifty-eight visitors during the year, including
fifty-four Masonic Lodges and affiliated organization s as group visitations. It is worthy of note that the policy of visitations on the first and
third Sunday of each month has been of immeasurab le assistance in
guaranteein g and protecting the children that they might enjoy the
benefits of relaxation and diversion from routine programs.

It was again the pleasure of the children and staff to begin the year
as guests of Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380,· at the annual picnic and
barbecue held at Huntington Beach. A "Magic Wonder" show was
presented at the Home by members of the Society of American Mag~­
cians and sponsored by Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. At the Masonic
Temple in Monrovia the children were guests of Monrovia Lodge No.
308 and Sojourner Lodge No. 607 at their Twenty-eig hth Annual
Christmas Party. This was followed by Christmas parties given by
Carmelita Lodge No. 599 and Hollywood Lodge No. 355. At our big
"family" Christmas party we were honored to have as our special guests
the southern members of the Board of Trustees and their families and
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Downen. Weekend "snow trips" were enjoyed
by all the children, thus enabling them to enjoy this season of the year
so many Californians miss. The San Bernardino Santa Fe Masonic
Club was host to the boys and girls at the National Orange Show at
San Bernardino; children attended the Al Malaikah Shrine Circus in
Los Angeles and witnessed on the Home grounds a mammoth display
of fireworks through the courtesy of friends in the various Bureaus of
Fire Prevention. We continue to enjoy, through the kindness of six
major motion picture studios, the best of feature and comedy pictures
by Columbia Pictures Corporation , Loew's Incorporate d, RKO Radio
Pictures Incorporate d, Twentieth Century-Fo x Film Corporation , Universal Film Exchanges and Warner Brothers Pictures Incorporate d. For
the long continued generosity of these studios in suppJ.ying well chosen
pictures for our children's weekly movie, we are deeply grateful. Elsewhere in this report will be found a more complete record of entertainment activities.

SUMMER PROGRAM

A complete and rather extensive program was planned and carried
out for the summer of 1951, whereby every boy and girl received the
benefit of a vacation in a locale entirely different from their daily surroundings. On July 1, under the supervision of the Superintend ent and
a qualified staff, the Senior and Intermediat e girls started on a three
thousand mile camping tour of northern California, visiting National
and State Forests and Parks, as well as many cities and points of interest,
eg. Sequoia, Bass Lake, Yosemite, Lake Tahoe, Virginia and Carson
City, Nevada, Mount Lassen, Mount Shasta, Shasta Dam, Sacramento
(where the group was received by Governor Warren). Next they visited the Masonic Home for the Aged at Decato, where they enjoyed the
hospitality of Superintend ent and Mrs. Eubanks; then to Grand Lodge
and San Francisco; stopping at Big Sur on the way home to Covina.
The Senior and Intermediat e boys enjoyed approximate ly the same trip,
leaving Covina, July 22, and returning home August 7. Over fifteen
thousand miles were covered by our three camping vehicles on the two

HEALTH AND WELFARE PROGRAM

Due to the alert watchfulnes s of our doctors and nurses the boys
and girls continue to be in splendid physical condition. Prophylacti c

92

93

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

treatment has played a large part in the success of our health program.
Every child received a thorough physical examination by Dr. W . P.
Magan and his associates, with the resultant accurate record of the
health progress of each boy and girl maintained by our head nurse.
Extra rest, special nourishment and vitamin supplement has been given
when needed. In addition, innoculations have ·b een given to all children
for influenza, diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, and typhoid. One case
of chicken pox and nine cases of influenza are recorded. For surgery we
report seven tonsillectomies and one hernia repair. Eight children are
receiving orthodontia treatment by Doctors, Grant, Mcintosh, and Paul.
Dr. Ellwood Laine, our visiting dentist, examined each child twice during the year and gave one hundred and forty-two treatments in the
Home Dental Clinic. Ophthalmic examinations and visual training continue to be part of our health program. One hundred and thirty-six children were admitted to the Home hospital with a total of four hundred
and sixteen hospital days. Four thousand, six hundred and seven Home
hospital clinic treatments were administered. A resident of the Decoto
H;ome received care for twenty-seven days in our Home' hospital. Our
deepest appreciation to the doctors and nurses for their untiring interest
and devotion to the welfare of our boys and girls.

the Annual Masonic Home Alumni Reunion Dinner in San Francisco,
with many from the Los Angeles area in attendance. An invitation to
the Covina Home Reunion was mailed to every Alumnus and a special
notice regarding the San Francisco Reunion Dinner was sent to all
Alumni in the San Francisco area. Newsletter No. 25. recording through
its one hundred and thirteen pages the activities of the Home and news
from Alumni during the past year, was mailed to Alumni and friends
of the Home in all parts of the United States and to Alumni in the
Armed Services overseas. As a parable to the adage that the proof of
the pudding is in the tasting, certainly the yardstick by which the success of any institutional program might well be measured is by the
achievements and accomplishments of its Alumni. Such a measurement
applied to the Masonic Home for Children would impress every individual and leave, beyond a shadow of a doubt, pride and personal satisfaction in contributing and making possible the achievements of our Home
Alumni.
This year of association with the children, staff. and friends of our
Home Family has been personally very gratifying. The continuing
friendly guidance and counsel. tendered with warm understanding of the
various matters encountered in the administration of a program of child
care, by the Board of Trustees has indeed been ~n inspir~tion; that ~11
may work together in serving the best interests of our children and tn
the true exemplification of Masonic charity.

FARM AND GROUNDS

Of the many activities engaged in by the children in our program
directed toward increasing and developing individuality, interest, poise,
and other qualities so necessary for success, the highlight may well have
been the accomplishments of our Masonic Pioneers' 4-H Club. Awards,
recognition and individual achievement have been the result of the efforts
expended by the children. Sueh recognition included swine production,
beef feeder projects and sheep production, as well as sewing and the
field of home-making. Under the direction of our farm supervisor, the
Masonic Pioneers' 4-H Club has contributed much toward alleviating
the high cost of living for our Home Family. During this past year we
have produced, butehered and consumed approximately four thousand
and fifty-six pounds of beef (live weight): seven thousand, five h~ndred
and eighteen pounds of pork (live weight); ftve hundred and twentyseven pounds of dressed rabbit; seven hundred and fifteen pounds of
chicken (live weight); one hundred and sixty pounds of geese and ducks
(live weight); two hundred and ten pounds of lamb (live weight). Six
hundred and thirty-two pounds of pork was converted into hams and
bacon.
MASONIC HOME ALUMNI

The traditional return of Masonic Home Alumni to the scenes of
their childhood took place on Sunday, September 24, 1950. Each class
was well represented. There was also an especially good attendance at

Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT

M. HENRY

Superintendent
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

94

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF
CALIFORNIA, INCORPORATE D

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The following is a statement of the Masonic Temple Association of
California, Incorporated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1951:

Your Masonic Ho~es Endowment Board takes pleasure in presenting herewith its 19th Annual Report, covering the period from August
l, 1950, to July 31, 1951, inclusive.

Assets
Cash .......................................................................................... $ 27,202.76
Accounts receivable-tenants ................................................
372.50
Investment in stocks and bonds, at cost ................................ 219,250.40

MARCHING ALONG TOGETHER

Property ..................................................................................

$246,825.66
579,628.62

TOT AL ASSTS ········-····················································$826.454.28
Liabilities and Capital
Liabilities .................................................................................. $ 4,037.68
Capital ...................................................................................... 822, 416.60
TOT AL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL. ................. $826,454.28
Income
Rentals ...................................................................................... $72,271.42
Income on Investments ......................................................... .
8,826.71
Profit on sale of securities ......................................................
9,116.33
1,181.37
Income from sub-meters ····································-················:··
Sundry income ........................................................................
72.55
TOTAL INCOME ........................................................ $ 91,468.38
Expenses
Expenses-Total expenses .....................................................

59,844.92

Net income for the year .......................................................... $ 31,623.46
Surplus
Balance, September 30, 1950 ................................. ................. $140, 4 54 .69
Add:
Net profit for the year......................................................
31,623.46
TOTAL .......................................................................... $172,078.15
Deduct, dividends paid........................................................

16,449.84

Balance, September 30, 1951 .................................................. $155,628.31

95

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Perhaps there is no more certain way to present this report than
under the above caption. It has been only a few years since the original
start of the Grand Lodge Endowment Fund Program. We should all be
most appreciative of the vision shown by the devoted Masons who conceived of such an idea. We can add our thanks to those who labored to
put in concrete and constructive form a program where all could share
in the over-all picture in accordance with his ability and the dictates of
his own conscience. True-blooded Americans abhor the idea of dole,
and this is particularly true of our Craft. Yet the opportunity to assist,
even in a small way, those less fortunate than ourselves, and above all
to take steps to provide for the security of such brethren, their widows
and orphans, is one of the wisest motives of the Fraternity. Such has
been our opportuntiy for the past few years in building the Endowment
Fund, as we have marched along together.
FOUR MILLION DOLLARS PLUS
From the small yet fertile seed of those first few dollars, we can now
look with pride to the sizable sum of our Endowment of over four
million dollars. More important, perhaps, is the substantial increase of
individual contributors during the past fiscal year. This number has
reached an all-time high of 60,801. This is approximately 8,000 more
individual contributors than any previous year. The income from bequests was likewise substantial. aggregating well over $100,000.00.
Along with the high total contributed through Lodges of almost $242,000.00, this made our aggregate increase above $364,000.00, or a total
Endowment Fund as of August 1st of $4,244,715.81
OPERATIVE PROCEDURE
Your Board is more or less limited in its working procedure by its
legislative setup. It is charged "to study, devise and carry out plans for
the securing of adequate endowment for the Masonic Homes of California." Such an educational program has been followed. In an effort to
make this procedure more effective, the jurisdiction has been divided
into Districts, and servicing certain of these is the responsibility of individual Board members. This has made it possible to have such a
member responsible for contacts, and as the liaison person to work with
Inspectors and individual Lodges in that area. We believe this has

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

96

proven more effective in giving a personal touch in operation of our
work. There has been evident increase and demand for more information about our Homes. Visitations have grown, and we have experienced
the widest distribution of pamphlets in our history, totalling approximately one hundred thousand. Our Honor Certificates were perfected
and issued to ninety-two Lodges last year. The reactions to this innovation have been most gratifying. We believe it is not only a stimulus
for continued activities, but a well-deserved citation that in general is
much appreciated by the individual Lodges.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Personnel of the present Board is as follows:
1951
1952
EDMUND A. LOCKETT
CLOVIS J. ROBERT
BYRON COLEMAN
LEONARD R. AVILLA
CARL F. LA VO

ORNO E. TYLER
RHINE G. MEYERING
HARRY A. NAUMAN, JR.
JOHN M. GORDON
OLEN T. TURNER

97

1953
ERNEST G. BASHOR
CHAS. E. MOORE
IRA D. WHEELER
LESTER A. PRICE
WALTER H. IRELAND

The officers of the Board are:
APPRECIATION

If we were permitted to paraphrase, we would say, "As the Master
goes, so goes the Endowment Fund." The Most Worshipful Grand
Master has been invaluable in "spreading the gospel" about our two
splendid Homes. We realize that the successful year has been in a great
measure due to his efforts. Never have we had more and better cooperation from the Inspectors. This, plus the increase of interest on the part
of the Masters, Officers and those assigned for special duties; those
individual members of the Craft who, for some special reason, have
developed a particular interest and have made it their business to carry
the message whenever possible; the sum total of such cooperation has
made it possible for your Board to give this splendid report.

ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice Chairman
EDMUND A. LOCKETT, Vice Chairman
FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSON, Secretary
WM. RHODES HERVEY, Financial Advisor

CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1949
$191,319.68

1950
$194,328.62

1951
$241,939.20

THE CHALLENGE
This can be summed up briefly by the statement, "A sufficient endowment, the income from which should care for our Homes."
A careful study of the appended financial summary sheet should be
of great interest and help to all. to understand and realize our responsibility as we continue Marching Along Together.

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS

1949
52,998

1951
60,801

TESTIMENTARY GIFTS

Respectfully,

y OUR MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

1950
49,233

Bequests have been received as follows, up to July 31, 1951:
Estate of:

~l::ib~~~~~I,=~:-:_:
:-:~=:-:
:; ; ~ ;( :!·[~~
A
ert B. Johnson ( 405)------------- - ------------------··--······---------·-----Edwar~ C. ~zhl ·--------------------------:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~ili:i D.rrR~th~lii<l::::·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

~f~~~\~f;~~:

== :::

2

'J~~:~6

6,897.46
237.25

:=~:~::: : :~ ;:~::=::~~~: :~ ··:ii

TotaL. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ $126,935.69

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MEMORIALS

Louis Aftergut
John Rudolph Ahl
Sam Anderson
Frank A. Barnes
Herbert Briggs
Mrs. Anna M. Brouillet
Edgar C. Clark
Horace Coffin
Rose Kathleen Crocker
Lloyd G. Cullen
Edward Cunningham
Andrew Dalziel
Ferdinand DeLucchi
Mrs. Grace Densmore
Alfred C. Essevla
Bernhard Fischer
Warren E. Gerard
Huron Young Gibson
Louis Goldstein
Mark L. Hills
Norman A. Hollister
Edwin Waldemer Juergens
Ivan Kahn

Harvey_ A. Klyce
Justus Krafft
Jack Leeming
Clarence C. Liles
George MacRae
Chester B. Magill
Dr. Harry Martin
Paul Martin
Joseph Netz
Harold Q. Noack
Irving K. Parker
George W . Perkins
Patrick Parnell Ryan Rorke
J. Griff Scott
John R. Sherrard
Mrs. Julia Sloane
Judge Frank Smith
Frank E . Smith
Alfred J. Thibodeau
Charles W. Tramp
P. B. Van Fress
Mrs. Harry Weiss

HONORABLE MENTION

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per member. (Such contributions were made by 137 Lodges) :
No.
1

3
17
21
26
35
42
60
65
120
128
141
143
144
149
168
178
192
202
207
208
209
211
214
220
221
226
232
237

Lodge

Members
Total
546
$1,155.40
761
1,542.50
119
247.75
475
1,049.50
257
516.00
1,964.00
977
752
2,848.00
204
426.00
81
294.41
559
1,210.00
'fl1~~\~?
1,624.50
556
248.75
Grafton ····-······················································································ 110
288.50
Franklin ···-············································-··························-··········· 138
Oriental .........................................................................................• 381
785.00
485.85
Lassen .......................... ·············-················································-··· 219
1,142.00
Redwood City ---················--··· ··-··········································- 565
1,349.35
Phoenix ·····-····-·--········-- ·--·-··················-· ·········-··-······-··--- 661
775.00
Santa Barbara -·······························································-············· 342
1,465.50
550
t~~f!a
429
859.00
354.00
Rio Vista -----·•-····················-················-······················-···········- 150
King David's •••.••............................................................................ 410
868.00
361.10
San Benito ············-······································································- 160
800.50
San Buenaventura ····-·····················-···········································- 397
1,095.75
Downey ------····-··················-················-···········;··'·········-······· 541
.349.00
Inyo --·····························································································- 165
l,121.10
San Mateo ·········································-··········································· 477
302.59
Janesville -·-········ ·····························································-······-······ 146
420.50
Guadalupe ···················-······························································· 155

California ·····-·····--·-·--·-·····························································
Tehama ······-····················································································
La Parfaite Union ···-·····································································
Hawaiian ···-··········-·····································································
El Dorado ·····-···---············································-···'··················San Diego ............•...........................................................................
Los Angeles ....................................................................................
Plumas ..............................................................................................
Amador ---~---·······-··-··················.····················-······-···-····- ..

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

. :::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

241 Santa Ana ··--···--·-··-··-······
·····-···············-··· ·--·········-······· 580
242 Magnolia ·······-······················-··········-··········-······························· 398
264
273
278 Southern California ············--···············
···································--·· 517
279 Hanford ···························-·
·············-·-·········-········-················-··· 219
291 Santa Paula ···············-······-······
········-···································-······ 345
295
309
315 Norwalk ························-········-····-···················
·······················-··· 249
320 South Gate ···········-··-········-·····
······················································ 659
326 Needles ···-······-··· ··-·········-··············
····-·············-···········-·········- 357
329 Vallee de Prance..·-···-··-··--······································--'·-··129
332 San Pedro ···········-···························-··················
·····-·-·················· 501
335 West Gate ··························································
346 Palo Alto ·····-····-····-··-··············-····-······'·-····· ··-················-··- 1039
·········-········-····· 694
352 Sunset ·········-··················································
-······························· 389
367 South Pasadena ·····························-······-·······················
················ 580
368 Unity ·························-·-················-·····-·························-·-···-·
···- 615
371 le Progres de I'Oceiµiie ...•..............._______•...••... ____...........•..•........
673
377 Artesia ·····················-·······-·························-································
···
378 Mizpah ··························································-···························-··· 167
441
379 Fillmore ·········-···········-··················-··············
············-··············· 236
383 Oros! ···············································································-··········
···- 141
387
392
394 University ···-···········-·····································-······························· 618
408 Sierra Madre .................................................................................. 146
409 Honolulu .......................................................................................... 383
415 Silver Trowel .........................................................................•........ 391
424 Exeter ···········································-····················-························· 213
437 Lancaster .........................................................................................·· 257
438 Acacia ····························································································
- 60
444 Carpinteria ··-····-············-··························---····
······················- 119
452
458
461
462
464 Alta Vista ···········································-············-························-···
279
470 Lincoln .................. ·········-···················································
············ 340
482 Clarence F. Smith..---·-·····--···-·····-···-·-···········-···-------370
493 Atascadero ·······--·-···-·-········
·-···············-··· 110
501 Westwood ··-·····································-·········-····················-······-····-·-···-····-········· 269
515
516
519 Euclid -···-··········-··········:·-··············-·-········
520 Ionic ·····················-······························-······· ····-·······-················· 396
·········-······················· 784
524 Catalina Island ·······································-····················
················· 149
527 Covenant ····-···-···-···---·- ····-·-·······-··-··- --··--····-····-529 Loyalty ···························--···············-·-········································· 340
453
535 Alexander Hamilton ······························
····-·································· 256
537
545
566 James A. Garlleld.•.......----·-··················- ······-·-······-········- ··-· 230
575 Fort Crook ·········-·--·········································-··
·······················- 161
576 El Cajon ValleY------------~--- ---------251
577 Sunnyside -·····-·····---·-·····-· ·······-·····-································· 464
581 Security ·········-··--·--·-······-···········-················-········-········-·····
389
583 Wasco ··-·····--·-·-···-······· ·············--······-·············-·············· 289
585 jtanchester ---··-------····
···-··--·-·--··-- ···-··-···--·· 363
589
auai ···························-··-·-·-·············-···········-···-····-·--·-········ 129
595 Alexander Graham Bell.---·-··-·-···-----···-·········-····-···- 267

~!~h~~la~...:::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

t'ei2i~cks~. :::::::::::~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:: ~~~

~=!~D f ak~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~i

~=~~~~~~~~~ i~

::f:&~~--~:.~~-~---~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

~:':J:~·-·::::::::::=-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: r~~

99
1.278.00
l,113.50
718.00
1,277.18
1,372.00
470.50
913.00
296.25
553.50
509.05
1.338.00
832.50
261.50
1.028.00
2,104.00
1.415.75
885.00
1.297.14
1,255.00
1.460.09
376.00
1.345.00
505.50
340.00
1.025.00
2,404.00
1.305.50
350.00
966.50
816.00
519.00
520.50
120.00
272.00
1.020.00
1.423.00
908.50
1,195.00
566.25
1,178.50
751.00
284.13
604.00
1.058.00
619.60
825.13
1.694.18
303.75
683.50
1.500.00
820.27
1.438.47
404.80
873.00
326.32
540.00
1.015.00
778.00
604.80
1.463.00
423.10
570.50

102

103

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

relief of strangers and sojourners from abroad. In this connection we
had the curiosity to inquire of the secretary of that Board as to the
amount expended for Masons hailing from subordinates of the Grand
Lodge of England and Scotland and the amounts refunded. His report
to us shows that since 1881 his Board has expended for Masons from the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of England $19,435, of which $1,231 has
been reimbursed: for Masons from the Grand Lodge of Scotland $4,076,
of which only $69.35 has been reimbursed: and that of the $205,707 so
expended for relief of sojourners and strangers from abroad much less
than one-fourth has been paid back."
In the report of the same Board of Relief, representing the Masonic
year just completed, we find that they expended $11,609.25 for relief
during the year and of this amount the Board of Relief has been reimbursed in full for all of its Masonic charity.
The reports of the Boards of Relief show that during the past year
they have conducted 893 funerals, have made 18,913 service calls upon
the sick, for investigation, relief and all other matters ;equiring their
personal attention.
They also report that they have advanced a total of $46,258.00 for
relief. Of this amount the Boards of Relief have been reimbursed in all
but $125, representing only one case from all of those handled by the
various offices.

We concur in the comments of Past Grand Master Gaylord and are
proud to report that the Boards of Relief continue to carry out these
·
principles.

In recent years, several of our Boards of Relief have developed and
are now maintaining blood banks for the benefit of Masons and their
families. During the past year these Boards report that there has been
donated 1605 units of blood and that 1539 units have been withdrawn
for the use of our brothers. This represents a saving to them of $40, l 35.
Past Grand Master Gaylord in his message to Grand Lsdge in 1932
said, "We must not forget that Masonic charity is neither mechanical
nor mercenary. Our charity funds are a trust and must not be carelessly
or extravagantly disbursed, conversely, no worthy brother or his dependents should suffer by reason of technicalities, nor should worthy
applicants to a board of relief he made to feel that our charity is mechanical or grudgingly bestowed, or that our sole purpose is to avoid the disbursement of charity funds. The Board of Control in .its activities necessarily emphasizes the necessity for economy and business-like methods,
particularly at a time when demands are numerous. Because of this function Boards of Relief and other executive officers should not misconstrue
the purpose of the Board of Control or the extent of Masonic charity.
Necessarily, cases will arise where immediate assistance in reasonable
amounts is essential to adequate relief of the situation, and good
judgment must be exercised as well as business methods: this does not
mean extravagance or carelessness, but it does mean the exemplification
of brotherhood: our charity is brotherhood and not fraternal insurance."

EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

We now maintain seven employment bureaus in this jurisdiction.
During the past year, at the request of the Honolulu Board of Relief.
the Board of Control approved the dissolution of that employment
.
bureau.
The primary purpose of our employment bureaus is to assist worthy
Master Masons, their widows and orphans, in securing employment,
thereby assisting in maintaining their morale and avoiding the necessity
of direct relief.
During the past year our employment bureaus registered 6,989 for
employment: of these 4,975 were male and 2,014 were female. Of the
total registered, 2,913 were actually placed in jobs. We had 10,406 positions offered through our offices by employer inquiry. No fees are
charged in our employment bureaus either to the employee or the employer. Were we to make such a charge and were we to use the State of
California's prescribed maximum rates, which commercial agencies may
charge, we would have earned $1 77, l 07 .00. This we like to consider as
the amount saved our unemployed brothers.
APPROPRIATIONS

Employment offices receive their financial support from their Boards
of Relief together with aid from Grand Lodge. The Board of Control
has developed a formula to determine the maximum amount which we
will ask Grand Lodge to appropriate to any employment office. After
several years of use, we believe that this formula has proved itself to be
equitable and just, not only to Grand Lodge but also to our Boards of
Relief. This year the Board of Control has approved the following listed
appropriations for the seven employment offices and has filed them, as
required, with the Finance Committee with our recommendation for
approval.
East Bay - .............................- ...................._...,...........,.$ 2,500.00
282.00
Fresno ............................................................................
Long Beach.................................................................. 1,613.00
Los Angeles ................................................................ 6,500.00
750.00
Sacramento ..................................................................
San Diego .................................................................... 2,359.00
San Francisco .............................................................. 2,000.00
TOTAL ...........................- ......................;.............$16.004.00

104

105

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REIMBURSEMENTS

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON THIRTY-SECOND
ANNUAL OBSERVANCE OF PUBUC SCHOOLS WEEK

A Board of Relief, having assisted a needy sojourning brother, may
find that it is unable, for some reason, to make itself whole by being
reimbursed ei~her by the brother's lodge or his Grand Lodge. Such board
may then turn to Grand Lodge and request reimbursement from Grand
Lodge funds. This plan is a well considered portion of our Masonic
charity program. Knowing that the strength of Grand Lodge is behind
our Boards of Relief. permits our secretaries to have the proper mental
attitude in dealing with relief cases, thus permitting each case its full
measure of needed relief.
During the past year only one case required our attention. The Board
of Relief of Bakersfield was called upon to bury a brother, a life member ·
of Peace and Harmony Lodge No. 834 A. F. and A. M. of Rangoon
Burma, of the Grand Jurisdiction of Scotland. This brother and his wife
left Burma in December 1948, but were permitted to bring only a limited
amount of funds with them, nor has any money since been released to
them. The brother's wife works as a waitress in order to make a living.
On March 9, 1951, the brother died in extreme poverty. He was buried
with Masonic honors. His lodge was contacted by registered air mail
regarding the expense of his funeral. To date there has been no response.
The Board of Control has, therefore, recommended to the Finance Committee that the Masonic Board of Relief of Bakersfield be reimbursed in
the amount of $125.
BOARD OF CONTROL

The Board of Control held three meetings during the past Masonic year. In February it met for three days in Santa Monica with all
of the Southern California Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus.
In June there was a three day session in Stockton with the Northern
California Boards and Bureaus. The Board of Control is meeting during
this session of Grand Lodge, having started work last Saturday and will
continue through the balance of this week.
Representatives of the Board of Control attended all of the Masonic
Breakfasts throughout the State. Reports on the Board's activities were
made at the Los An~eles, Lon,g Beach, Sacramento, East Bay and Fresno
Breakfasts and the· second annual dinner of the Board of Relief of San
Francisco.
Our Boards of Relief are operating efficiently, economically, and
harmoniously and all credit should be given to the brothers who are now
serving the craft as secretaries and managers.
Respectfully submitted,
JACK C. BUTLER
JOHN T. MARTIN .
Guy A. TOLLE
HARRY F. WHITE
REGINALD M. MILLS

Referred to the Committee on Finance.'

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
It is impossible for this General Committee, in rendering its annual
report on 1951 Public Schools Week Observance, to sufficiently express
its thanks to local committees for their fine cooperation in the 32nd
Annual Observance.
This statement will be understood when our brethren examine the
splendidly organized reports which again, for the second time, will be
on display during Grand Lodge.
This committee carefully studied the reports from each Lodge
throughout the jurisdiction. Our report attempts to present a digest of
the inspiring evidence of one of the finest Observances on our records
under the following topics:

PROCLAMATIONS
"The Public School -

An American Heritage"

The more general use of the 1951 State slogan and scroll symbol
throughout the jurisdiction decidedly strengthened publicity impact.
The apt themes contained in the proclamations of the Grand Master
Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen and Governor Earl Warren were
also widely quoted. ·
Grand Master Paulsen proclaimed in part:
"Never in history have so many people throughout the world
been denied access to authentic sources of information. Never before were the forces of thought~control more powerful, and never
was the need for a public schools system greater . • ."
Governor Warren's annual proclamation likewise stressed the importance of the Observance which originated with our Grand Lodge.
He said in part:
"History teaches, and many recent examples in various parts of
the world have demonstrated with startling clarity, that freedom such
as we cherish cannot long exist without popular understanding and
appreciation of individual responsibility.
"One of the basic institutions upon which we rely for the furtherance
of our American ideals is the public school system. Public schools, by
enabling every child to gain a liberal education regardless of station in
life, promote recognition of the responsibilities of citizenship and constitute a major bulwark against subversive doctrines.

106

107

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"We in California are proud of the school system that has been
developed in our State. Its success has been due to many factors-the
interest of mothers and fathers in their children, the cooperative efforts
of state and local officials, and the energy and determination of those
public spirited men and women who are devoting their lives to the teaching of our children.
"The continued progress of our school system requires increased
public understanding of the importance of education and the greatest
possible encouragement and support of our teachers . . ."
To these proclamations were added countless numbers issued by
the Mayors of cities and towns throughout the state. Industries and
organizations with statewide membership added formal resolutions and
comments.
The three heads of the York Rite Bodies sent proclamations to their
members urging the support of Public Schools Week and requiring that
no meeting be held during the week that would conflict.
The California Legislature formally recognized the Observance with
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 30, adopted in Assembly March
15, 1951, and in the Senate March 22, 1951 as follows: .
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 30-Relative to Participation in
the events of the Thirty-second Annual Public Schools Week.
WHEREAS, The Thirty-second Annual Public Schools Week will
be observed in California during the week of April 23d to April 27th by
an open house in all public schools: and
WHEREAS, Countless citizens throughout the State have formed
committees to cooperate with school officials and students to enliven our
interest in the function of our public schools in guarding and strengthening the concepts of our democracy: and
WHEREAS, The slogan of the Thirty-second Annual Public Schools
Week is "The Public School-An American Heritage": and
WHEREAS, The object is to encourage public attendance at the
school programs to insure a wider knowledge of the importance of public
schools in our social progress: now, therefore be it
Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Senate
thereof concurring, That all citizens of the State of California are hereby
urged to attend the events of Public Schools Week, as a demonstration
of the importance of public education in the effort to preserve and make
stronger the American way of life.

in other jurisdictions.
January 1950 the Grand Lodge of Arizona conducted its first program and its second this year was most successful. Now it is planning for
its 3rd Observance with date moved to April. ·
Last year the Education and Service Committee of the Grand Lodge
of Texas was studying the possibility of a Public Schools Week program. We are delighted to report that it has inaugurated an Observance
patterned on the California Program and that it was a fine success. They
are now planning for their next program, possibly in April.
Certainly all our Lodges and members wish them continued success.

*

*

*

OTHER GRAND LODGE JURISDICTIONS
As reported last year, our committee has had inquiries and requests
for information on Public Schools Week activities from Grand Lodges

*

*

*

INFORMATION PLEASE!

What's the Date?
The constantly recurring question!
As pointed out in last year's report-subject to the Grand Master's
approval and proclamation-Public Schools Week date is traditionally
set starting the FOURTH MONDAY IN APRIL. Not the fourth week
as has been assumed by some.
For instance, the fourth Monday in April, 1952 falls on April 28.
The erroneous fourth Week in April would be the 21st.

*

*

*

Again - Grand Lodge Display
For the second time, the General Committee has arranged a display
of informational material and the splendid reports from all Lodges in
the Jurisdiction on the 32nd Annual Observance.
As noted in the introduction to this report, your committee feels these
examples of fine efforts will be an inspiration to every member who
examines them.

*

*

*

Start Earlier!
The committee is inspired by overall enthusiastic requests for it to
send material and information as sent last year to each lodge-earlier.
We are making every effort to do so. But, there are time factors over
which the Committee has no control:
1. Timing of the Grand Master's proclamation.
2. Appointments or delegations of new Lodge chairmen and committee members.
3. The above factor explains why several new committee chairmen
did not receive General Committee material elaborated this year.

108

109

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

From the above and from general Information Requests, you will
see the value of the General Committee's suggestions:
1. Staggering appointments of chairmen-in order to maintain a
"perpetual" steering committee.
2. Maintenance of a duplicate permanent record of procedure of
past years and all information by each Lodge to aid and guide
incoming chairmen.

There were in all about seven lodges which did not find the material
helpful. Four negative comments came from metropolitan areas, three
from small districts, and curiously all gave the same reasons:
"Not of value in this community because too large-or too small."

*

*

*

GRAND LODGE COMMITTEE
INFORMATIONAL ACTIVITIES FOR
32nd ANNUAL OBSERVANCE (1951)
1. January letter incorporating 32nd annual Public Schools Week
Observance date and:
a. State Slogan
b. State Symbol
c. Procedural guide digest
d. Notification of new material to come.
2. Proclamation by Grand Master, dated February 10, 1951.
3. Increase of General Committee membership.
4. Local chairmanship announcements.
5. Order form for new material and covering letter indicating na~
ture of same.
6. Advance publicity notices for Lodge bulletins.
1. KIT OF NEW MATERIA~overing letter, outlining overall
statewide arrangemeJltS with guide to press, radio, television
arrangements.
a. "HERE'S HOW" - suggested and adaptable procedural
guide.
b. Speaker's Manual
-c. Radio and TV release and planning program
d. Press Book.
8. Continuous specialized publicity releases.
. The General Committee did not anticipate that the new guiding
materials sent out for the first time this year, in its entirety, would flt all
problems of all communities and situations. But preparation was de~
signed, with guidance of experts, so any part could be used to advantage
in districts of all sizes.
Reported results were astonishingly successful. From the smallest,
isolated districts to metropolitan areas, adapted use illustrated a great
pattern value.

* * •
How .•. Why
. Where
Composite Expressions of Value of Material
Helped especially in guiding foreign language newspapers, a
factor in our district.
. . • Material excellent in every respect ... Indicated enlighte~ed
approach and training in the production of incentive material. Need
more of this thinking on other subjects . • • School faculty especially
impressed and high in praise of this sort of work done by Grand Lodge
Committee •.•
. • Inspiration to every officer in the jurisdiction.
Don't know how material can be improved for overall use.
More of the same.
"Here's How" most useful in overall planning.
Invaluable, but please send sooner.
. • Now we find essential in planning our program.
All press, radio material used in entirety . • . local press cooperated more fully than in past year because of pattern.
. .• Material best furnished in any year. Radio gave more publicity
because of background material furnished.
. .. We have a very small communtiy, but the press book widely
used and radio book taken in entirety by one radio station. "Here's
How" inspired consolidation of widely separated Lodges . . .
.•. Please send more material like "Here's How" and Speaker's
Manual.
. . • No general press outlets in this area. "Here's How" and Speaker's Manual gave us more publicity by local means than ever before.
. . . Used by journalism instructor at our high school in printing
Special Edition of (local school paper).
. . . Our first attempt at the observance. With guiding material
know we can do better next year.
••. (Very small community.) "Here's How" material best suited to
our needs. More material of this nature needed.
. •. This year's material best from standpoint of outlining overall
program ever received ..• Extremely useful for future in this and other
civic activities.
Helped most in getting members to participate by having clari-

111

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

[ied guide as how to start . • •
. . . Material most helpful in interesting our brethren and members
of other organizations in preparation for the April Observance.
; . . By being provided with material to back us up, press all sections
most helpful this year . . .
. . . Full use made of all material in many ways.
. . . Invaluable in directing efforts toward more general community
participation. Please send more and earlier.
. . . Certainly believe Grand Lodge Committee should continue to
send material like this, especially to smaller Lodges so we can get as
much general publicity, as shown was possible, from this year's results.

are a small community but we obtained splendid community wide observance."
" ... Any comment by this Master as an individual is not apropos
... but I feel I have been privileged to participate in a VERY SIGNIFICANT AMERICAN EVENT.''

110

*

*

*

SIGNIFICANT TRENDS
Student, parent, public, industry participation more general.
All school activities included in participation of the program.
Not only arts and crafts but sports exhibitions, all music' activities ...
• . . Programs for major events more generally presented themes
which developed international relations and understanding. This especially obvious in communities where alien born residents were a factor.

*

*

*

Significant, direct quotes:
"This was the most successful Observance, from kindergarten
through the Junior and State College, we've every had. From 150,000
population, 29,600 visitors to the public schools were registered."
" ... Inspiring to observe the many ways in which our Lodges kept
to the background while being a tremendous force behind community
participation, gaining cooperation of churches of all faiths, industry,
service clubs, other fraternal and cultural organizations.''
" ... For three years of effort, we had difficulty in putting across the
Observance in our community. But this year all schools joined and the
whole town lined sidewalks and main streets. Farm boys and girls and
prominent citizens joined in judging animals, livestock, naming tools and
hardware, household foods, seasonal activities and safety posters.
", .. Now the whole town is already talking about next year's Public
Schools Week features.''
" ... Heretofore the activities during this annual event have been
sponsored and conducted exclusively by local Masonic Lodge in cooperation with school authorities ... a wrong practice ... The Masonic
Lodge, though it inspired and instigated the event holds no monopoly
on the promotion of this cause which is common to all interests ... We

*

*

*

Significant Participation
This year's reports reveal a tremendous upsurge in active, direct
participation of industry, business, fraternal and all community organizations. This participation is evidenced by:
1. Tie-in business ads.
2. Direct Public Schools Week courtesy ads ranging from full editions, through quarter pages to four column ads paid for by industrial, fraternal and business institutions.
3. Pedestal signs.
4. Window Displays.
5. Cross Street Banners.
6. Sponsored school activities contests ranging through debating
teams, music and sports.
("Acknowledgment" Section can gfve only a partial list.)
Aside from general acknowledgments, a widespread participation
by Eastern Star was evidenced throughout the jurisdiction. A State
Committee was formed to promote attendance. Also outstanding among
service clubs throughout our area was general participation in both
large and small communities of the Rotary and Lions Clubs. •

*

*

*

LODGE COMMITTEES ASK
"WHY DON'T YOU?"
-Send each Lodge at least 2 copies of "Here's How" and other similar
material? (Will do so when requests received from committees.)
-Stress television promotion in next year's General Committee material
since many committees do not have large press outlet but can get television cooperation? (Have started.)
-Send all General Committee material earlier? (See chapter "Information Please" on timing factors.)
-Obtain special Public Schools Week Stamp and Federal Cancellation
publicizing this Observance? (Thanks to research of a stamp enthusiast
the General Committee has started to work on this suggestion.)
-Finance a film library of suitable subjects and trailers and make

. 112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

available to commercial movie houses? (See examples on this subject
in this and last year's report on how such subjects are financed and
rental sources.)
-Appoint a General Committee·member to give a five-minute maximum
talk in all schools in the state? (An ambitious schedule but the Committee will explore possibilities.)

locations with high public traffic.
Orchid corsage sent to outstanding woman teacher in each school.

-Arrange means for six months advance release of material from the
General Committee to all other organizations? (See timing factors outlined in chapter "Information Please" and the procedural plans in
" Here's How.")
-Send out General Committee material to heads of various school
bodies? (See chapters "Proclamations" and "Information Please." The
General Committee is only a guiding medium. Local school contacts can
be more fruitful if made by local Lodge officers and chairmen. )
-Promote a more direct publicity program among constituent Lodges
other than the Grand Master's Proclamation? (See list of General Committee Kit sent out this year. Especially, Radi~TV and Press books
and letter on prior arrangements: "Here's How" and Speaker's
Manual.)
-Recommend to each Lodge that a permanent Public Schools Week
Committee be appointed and require chairman of the permanent committee to make a monthly report? (See "Information Please" chapter on
timing and "Here's How" procedural manual.)

*

*

*

EXAMPLES OF SUCCESSFUL 1951 PROCEDURES
This section of our report--of space necessity-must be a digested
composite of the many original ideas, hard work and effort which
sparked a most inspiring Observance.
Parent, Pupil and Public Participation is the keynote of the most
successful observances throughout the jurisdiction.
"FROM ADAM TO ATOM," a clever folder in color used by several districts. It unfolds to reveal on a double spread, "PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN SAYING THAT THE YOUNGER GENERATION IS
'GOING TO THE DOGS.' . .• Could it be that they even said it
when YOU were young?" Material contained fine educational philosophy.
The use of original buttons, ribbon and cardboard lapel badges urging school visitation was a publicizing means in general use.
One novel variation was student designed wire dogs of professional
craftsmanship glued to cards and displayed on store counters and other

*

*

113

*

Parent Partitipation Ideas
Parents attended typical but abbreviated school day as students.
Each class about 20 minutes duration.
Father and Son Nights ... Mother and Daughter Nights . ·.• (Dads'
Nights more generally used.)
Adult Educational Program open every evening at various schools.
Oddly this drew equal attendance from non-parents.
Upper grade parents entertained first. They were given letters as
they came through the door informing them they would take part in a
Doctor I. Q. Program. Their children posed questions on history, english and arithmetic which they had made up with clues to the answers in
jingles.
Dads beat the Moms in ability to answer questions.
As closing event the children challenged their parents to a spelling
bee. Much to the youngsters' surprise, the Moms and Dads hadn't for..
gotten how to spell. They beat the offspring badly.
Several schools used the visual map idea, presented to visitors. That
is, a map of the school. keyed to various activities:
Music •.. Printing Demonstration •.. Welding Shop . . .
Science Rooms ... Audio Visual Equipment •.. Offlce Machine
Displays ..• Art Exhibits ... Drafting Demonstrations ... Home
Economics • • . Clothing Exhibits • • . Low Cost Meal Planning
... Interior Decoration ... Military Equipment Display ... Plastics
... Silk Screen Printing .•. Leather Work and Ceramics Demonstrations.
One Lodge, after a sixteen year buildup, stresses the theme of
YOUTH DAY. Everyone-literally-in the community participates.
YOUTH held sway as directors of local press and radio stations.
Put out special editions.
·
Front page announcements gave hourly programs from 9 a.m. to
9p.m.
Nine divisions ..• eleven bands paraded ..• Horse judging .•.
Luncheon for bands and officials. State Governor watched radio class
demonstration ... Track meet ... Concerts • .. Student Body dance.
The entire town closed all but eating places. All this a result of 16
years ef£ort.
·
Another small communtiy obtained participation of 42 fraternal.
civic and labor organizations.
In line with the upsurge of local theatre participation, this might be a

114

115

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

composite report. "Local theatre gave lobby space all during the week
for exhibits ... Endeav ored to obtain suitable film material. features and
trailers. "
Press featured stunts in a community interest ed in aquatic sports:
"Under water photogr aphs."
Most communities where new schools were being opened, delayed
dedicati on until Public Schools Week and used this to key their main
events. (Visual maps for visitors.)

each year and each year the program widens in scope. The community
groups start plannin g long before we have materia l . from and .for the
Lodge ... Spelling Bees were highlights of most evenmg entert~mme?ts
and it was impossible to accommodate the spontan eous commumty-wide
response.
. . . We have assigne d 11 group Observ ers' ~nd their reports will gi~e
you an idea of the successful participation which fea tu red the Masom c
Officers' Club Dinner, Church Services, etc.
We had local school night at our church. Our theme for the year
~~s· "Youth : Our Greates t Resource." Our pastor sent special ~ards ofl
invitatio n to attend the services dedicat ed to School Night. An mforma
reception was held afterwa rds in which speaker s, parents , PTA and
Board of Educati on officials particip ated.
. . . Student Particip ation in local and Interna tional underst anding
themes. Wide interest range indicate d by elemen tary grade demons trations pertaini ng to:
Homes . . . Food Store . . . Fire Station . . . Post Offi~e · ·. ·
Marine Life ... Southw est Indians ... Rancho Period in Cahform a
. .. Vacatio ns.
It was obvious how this wide interest range is developing latent talents and world-w ide awarene ss.
. . . Feature was a Rotary Club hosting of high school pupils at the
school cafeteria.
. . . In previous years school official cooperation had bee~ Juke-warm.
This year it was splendi d and resulted in best Observ ance m years.
. . . "Our Schools Have Kept Us Free ..." Our theme, ~nd we used a
fine organiz ational chart for aJI activities and functions. Guide and Chart
for instance outlined as follows where window display s would be shown:
Store named -Dolls · and Dresse s-Scho ol named.
Store named -Music for All-Sc hool Departm ent named.
Store named -Book Display -Schoo l Departm ent named.
Store named -Audio -Visual -Schoo l Departm ent named.
Building, Health, Civil Defens e and Special Edition program s outlined.
. . . Student speaker "Ameri can Voters' Respon sibility' "won zone contest sponsor ed by our Lions Club.
. . . Theatre Trailer s: "Public School s-An Americ an Heritage'. It is
YOUR most importa nt civic duty to encoura ge the teacher s and ch1ldre?
in our local schools by visiting them during Public Schools Week, April
23-27. Open house all week. You will enjoy the programs. ~he~ ha~e
prepare d for you." (Theatr es were the m~n sou~ce of pubhc1ty m this
community which has no local press or radio station. )
. . . We had county- wide particip ation . . . Kiddie Parade, with all

*

* *
No Speakers - Please/
Lodges and school districts which for years had followed the "name"
speaker feature theme have turned to the "partici pation" idea with the
fo1lowing typical comments:
• . . This year not having a speaker to hold the spotligh t, parents ,
teachers and new superin tendent of schools were able to get acquain ted
and to have demons tration of class procedu res. we had an open forum
which was especiaJly helpful and popular .
. . . If any speaker is used, talk should be short. We find the public
likes student program s far better than any speaker . Think we should
end week early for teacher s do not like Friday night, start of their
weekend.

*

*

*

Compe titive Prize s- Comm unity Pride
Our Lodges, Rotary, Eastern Stars, Masoni c mercha nts, Lions and
various other organiz ations underw rote awards for student s in competitions of various nature. For instance , Public Speakin g Contest s, Posters designe d and execute d by element ary grade student s, track events,
Girls' Rifle Team, quarter card design and many others.

*
Comments -

*

*

Past, Present and Future

Program so fuJI it ran three weeks rather than one . . . Consist ed
of open house at schools, art exhibits, horse and stock shows, shop ex..
hibits, industri al arts show . . .
• .. Our Public Schools Departm ent furnished busses for conduct ed
tours through educational facilities in the entire district. AJI guests were
given scenic maps of scattere d area. "We are all Partner s in Educati on."
Reserva tion cards were sent out by our local Citizen s' Committee.
. • . Ours is a very small community. But schools and citizens go all out

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

youngsters through elementary and high school participating. Most
stores turned over windows for school displays. Four thousand tags
were printed and sent to parents to wear .. , "Without doubt, .. said
oldtimers, "this was greatest success of any Observance held in this
county."
Grange and Agricultural Organizations were most active in areas
where those interests predominate.
"Climax evening in the week was held in Farmers' Hall in county
fairgrounds which is used as the high school gym. It is the only place
large enough for the 1200 adults and 300 students. Program consisted
of bands, choruses. athletic events . . . Afterward open house with
teachers in various classrooms to explain features of new school. Such a
success, program will be repeated next year. Inspiring community-wide
participation."
"One industrial organization paid for street banners across main
streets . . . Another for a moving Public Address system . . . Legion,
lo~al ~fficials such as fire department participated and helped in distrrbution of buttons, badges several types and a widely distributed diagram to school activities."

*

*

*

MASTERS REPORT
Here's How We Did It"

11

Rubber Stamps for use on outside of all envelopes and correspondence were issued to the local Chamber of Commerce prior to Public
Schools Week Observance. They were also sent to and used by other
industrial organizations:
"THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ... AN AMERICAN HERITAGE . . . Visit Your California Schools During Public Schools
Week, April 23-27.''
We also obtained outstanding theatre publicity. Two of our local
theatres publicized the Observance ·by constant running of a trailer four
days prior to Week and three days during the Week.
"Numerous business, labor and civic leaders in. the state have endorsed the Observance of Annual Public School's Week, using the state
theme.' All have emphasized the vital role schools play in maintaining the
American Way of Life. Each school district sponsors open house programs for the week. All parents and taxpayers are urged to visit the
schools and see firsthand the work being done to provide the children
with a formal education and a grounding in the practice of democracy.
"Visit Your Public Schools This Week. Meet Your Child's
Teachers. Note the New Improvements in School Activities.''
(The above theme was used in a large paid ad by a chain store.)
The Chairman of one major area in the jurisdiction manages a year-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

117

round emphasis on Public Schools Week through guidance to a professional organization which sponsors a creative writing competition
among high schools.
In the same area the Superintendent of Schools who works closely
with this chairman, last year issued a general proclamation and printed
program to the citizens of his school district on all Public Schools Week
activities.
·

*

*

*

FUTURE SUGGESTIONS

Composite Amplification of 11W by Don't You?"
. . . Recommend that Lodges be encouraged to have schools put on
program, preferably the 6.rst day of the Observance in Lodge rooms.
This would act as springboard for Public Schools Week and create
greater interest among the brethren and their families.
. . . (Five Lodge Combination.) . . . Suggest Public Schools Week
should commence on Sunday. Thus various churches or church groups
could be incorporated, as for instance meetings in the Congregational
Church. Combined or concerted action of Lodges in large centers of
population is more conducive for large attendance than individual
efforts of single Lodges.
.~ . Suggest Grand Lodge contact newspaper chains or syndicates to
publish regular features on Public Schools Week aims.
. . . Continue to stress open house type Observance and drop speaker
programs used in this area in previous years.
. . . I think inspectors from various districts could be a big fa~tor in
getting brethren out. Have them appear at various Lodges and make an
emphatic appeal for attendance.
. • . Think we should have a permanent annual committee working all
year. It would be able to better promote and coordinate plans with
schools, civic bodies, service clubs and all oth~ community organizations.
. • . Since each community varies widely from even nearby districts, it
isn't possible to prepare a set formula to 6.t every need. We believe each
Lodge should follow-up and expand the 6.ne material now being sent
out by the General Committee.
. . . A forceful pamphlet impressing members of the necessity and importance of Public Schools Week support should be sent to individual
members and Lodge secretaries before April 1. (Comment inspired by
adverse clipping.)
•.. Suggest we continue along same lines as material sent out by General Committee. Put more stress on citizens' committee functions to out-

118

119

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

line programs for school administrato rs and the PTA. Some of the last
named resent suggestions originating elsewhere. It requires tact on our
part.
. . . Please keep up material like "Here's How", Speaker's Manual .•.
but place greater emphasis on the importance · of school visitations
throughout the year ... Suggest each Lodge develop "Minute Man"
speakers and feed them material.
. . . Keep feeding material for theatre trailers . . . Local theatre ran a
single one for ten days ... We also suggest that all report blanks be sent
in duplicate to facilitate keeping of permanent records.
. . . Earlier preparation ..• More Grand Lodge Committee material.
. . . Have Grand Lodge report and suggestions in earlier so steering
committees can be set up last quarter of the year.
• . . Prepare a series of educational fllms to be shown in Blue Wges
at least four times a year. This would give the brothers· some idea of
'what the score is.' Modern Masonry needs to be taught some ancient
fundamenta l truths.
. . . Window Displays, first difficult to obtain now shoula have our
stress. Business houses in our district which did not get displays actually
complain we are favoring others who did.
. . . Put more stress and concentratio n on actual school work and less
on the cultural and entertainme nt side.
. • . Have General Committee send more of the helpful materials sent
us this year.
. . . There are small rural schools some distance from local high ~chools
that should have added attention. Due to distance, as a whole these were
neglected. Suggest in such communities have isolated schools hold open
house one night during Public Schools Week. Then major center could
hope to obtain representati on from Lodge and other citizens to visit
them at night set aside for individual observance.
. . . Be sure General Committee continues to send press, radio books
and other material as sent this year.
. . . Why not stress public schools .development of handicapped children? Our program along these lines was a revelation to many who
thought deaf children were sent away to institutions. ·
(General Committee Comment on this subject ...
There has been a longtime recognition by the Shriners of this specialized work improved each year in the Public Schools System. It could be
well dramatized.
For instance, it is not generally known that a trained lipreading
teacher visits normal classes to determine present deafness and possibility of progressive deafness. When such cases are discovered, a followup rehabilitatio n program is started. Progressive cases are oriented and

advised to start with specially adapted trades. This one factor should
have general recognition . . . )
. . • Keep the ball rolling with more information. Without the Masonic
spirit behind this event we would not have enjoyed the Observance such
as have had the last four years.
• • . As to future suggestions , our Observance this year was so good
we can think of no other suggestions . You never saw so much publicity
from radio, newspapers and bulletin announceme nts in one area. We
were pleasantly surprised.
• ". . We should try to increase library exhibits pertinent to history and
interests of the community.
. • . For Dads' nights, stress machine, automotive, electrical and woodwork. For Moms' nights have programs stress art, dressmaking and
cooking.

*

*

*

BOW TO THE PRESS AND
ALL MEDIA OF PUBLIC COMMUN ICATION S
All reports indicated the finest cooperation from all publicity media.
This analysis may be verified by examination of displays at the
October Grand Lodge Communication.
You will note:
1. General use by press of State Slogan and Symbol.
2. Splendid and original editorial cartoons.
3. Full editions devoted to the Observance .
Composite observation from various districts indicated where past
publicity was lacking, has been increased through material background
sent out by the General Committee this year.

*

*

*

BITTER WITH THE SWEET
" . . . Generally the Observance was a success. It was, however
most disappointin g to review, that with five Lodges participating . with
a total membership of around 2,000, only 115 of our members were
present at our climaxing and very interesting program. I do not know
the reason for this lack of interest by our membership. It certainly was
not lack of publicity or efforts on the part of the Masters.''
.
". . . Observance not a success from Lodge standpoint. This I am
sure because it is located in a non-residen tial area. Men of the family
work at night. They will not turn out for school affairs however highly
publicized as ours was this last year.''
". . . Please make some arrangemen ts that Masters not be per-

120

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mitted to speak at large gatherings. I have seen too many well-planned
programs disorganized by long-winded Masters who had inflated ideas
of their speaking ability."

*

*

*

ACKNOWLE DGMENTS!
At this section of the annual report, your General Committee is
embarrassed in an attempt to credit individually, the tremendous number of organizations which contributed to the outstanding success of our
32nd Annual Observance.
In contrast to many of last year's reports, the Eastern Star, throughout the jurisdiction has been shown by count, to have been very active
and a factor in success of the Observance.
Another overall count on reports from all Lodges, shows that Rotary,
Lions' Clubs and PTA have been successful participant f~ctors in both
rural and metropolitan communities.
The General Committee pleads for the tolerance of other organizations which contributed in a major way, if they are not given due credit
in this report for the success of our annual Observance.

*

*

*

Partial List of Acknowledge ments and Closing
Many Grange Organizations, including 4-H, Future F~rmers,
etc.
Local cultural, professional and women's clubs, and national
branches of similar organizations such as University Women, Business
and Professional Women's clubs, American Legion Auxiliary, Soroptomists, Native Daughters and so many others.
. . . Virtually every educational group, from top school officials, Boards
of Education, faculty organizations, principals and recreation commissions .
. • . State, city, county officials throughout the state. Also in many districts, group associations of fire and police departments, Civil Defense
organizations, ROTC and Civil Air Patrol.
. . • In addition to the PTA, various local Mothers' and Dads' Clubs ...
• . . Industrial and business organizations and individual firms in addition to the local Junior and Chambers of Commerce, Labor Organizations and American Legion Chapters .
• . . Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, Rainbow for Girls, Job's Daughters,
DeMolay.
. . . In addition to the aforementioned, statewide activities of the Ro-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

121

tary, Lions and Kiwanis clubs, here are j~st ~few of outstanding pa~­
ticipants from service and fraternal organizations:
Elks, M oose, Odd Fellows • Eagles, Knights of the Round Table,
Civitans, Bnai Brith, Oneonta and Active Clubs, R eb eccas, scottish
Rite York Rite, Shrine, 20-30, etc.
Reports indicated a general and ~arked participation increase of
ministerial associations, pastors and religious groups.
In closing, your committee reiterates its inability to a~equately
credit the cooperation of all individuals and organizations whichd~a1e
the 32nd Annual Observance of Public Schools Week so outstan mg Y
successful.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE D. GAVIN

LowE~L K. BAIN
PERRY H. BARRE'IT
HARRY L. BUCKALEW
FORREST H. KECK
HERSHAL

J. LAY

JoHN M. LEE
ROBERT A. ODELL
RoY L. SAWYERS
RoBERT G. Wot.T.

Request for appropriation referred to the Committee on Finance.

122

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC CLUB HOUSE,
BERKELEY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University,
Berkeley, California, presents this report covering the past Masonic
year. We believe that the general appearance of the building and
grounds at our Berkeley Clubhouse, and the facilities available there,
are better than they have been during the past ten years. This is a result
of the generosity of yourselves and the Finance Committee, particularly
in the past three or four years. We appreciate the confidence you have
reposed in us and the students, and assure you that it has been a pleasure
for each of the trustees to serve you and these young people.
The budget for the new year adopted by the Board of Trustees at its
meeting on September 25, 1951 calls for the expenditure of $16,200.00
in ordinary operation, and in addition, depreciation in the same amount
as fixed last year, viz., $4,010.00, plus the regular $3,000.00 reimbursement by Grand Lodge for the kitchen and building improvements installed several years ago, making a total of $23,210.00.
This budget, which was carefuly prepared by the Board, sitting as a
committee of the whole, has been verified at their request by our architect, Brother A. Lewis Koue, as to the items making up the total of
$3,370.00 for equipment and property improvements included in the
above $16,200.00 for said ordinary operation. The budget is included
herein as Exhibit "A" to this report; you will find in it a separate detail
in a footnote, and you will also observe on examining the latter that the
bulk of the items and costs comprising this special item for improvements,
etc., are requirements for the promotion of the health and safety of the
students and guests of the Clubhouse. We respectfully request the approval of our current budget covering the twelve months ending August
31, 1952, our fiscal year.
While the report of the auditors, F . W. LaFrentz & Company,
Certified Public Accountants, for the past fiscal year shows "Budgeted
Income in Excess of Expenditures ... $2,337.58," we respectfully invite
your attention to the fact that in the previous fiscal year we overexpended our budget by an even larger sum, namely, the sum of
$2,808.68, and to the further fact that we did not request one year ago
that this over-expenditure be made up by Grand Lodge, which means
that our reserves were called upon to supply the difference.
The Club has continued to supply the social needs of the University
of California students at Berkeley who have Masonic affiliations, serving an average group of some 300 members, the decrease being largely
attributable to the decreased enrollment at the University. However, the
students appear to have greatly appreciated your benefactions and ad-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

123

vise that the club spirit is increasingly good as you will note from the
report of Robert V. Airhart, President of the student group. Because of
its succinctness and clarity it follows herewith as part of our report :
"The Board of Trustees
University Masonic Club
Berkeley, California
Dear Sirs:
The University Masonic Club has just completed a most successful year. We had an average membership of over three
hundred despite the decrease of students attending the University, the scarcity of money, and the uncertain world conditions.
The success of the Masonic Club this year has been due largely
to the increasing club spirit of its members. This fact, coupled
with the very excellent social calendar, allowed us to use the
facilities of the club house most advantageously.
Two new systems were tried this year for the first time. By
constitutional amendment, the term of office of council members
was extended to one full year. Dues were increased to ten dollars
a year, and could be paid for a year at the start of the fall term.
The combination of these two new systems gave us an excellent
chance to budget our money for the full year from the very beginning.
This year marked the revival of two events which the club
has not seen in many years. I am referring to the float in the Big
Game Parade, and the Variety show. Both were big hits, and I
am sure they will become annual events at the club.
The most memorable event of the year wa; the reception,
dinner and dance honoring The Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, Grand Master of Masons in California. A speech by the
Grand Master on the basic ideals of Masonry highlighted the
evening.
Many years ago, a very far sighted council reserved one
hundred dollars toward the purchase of a motion picture projector. No money was taken from or added to this fund for several years. Many times council came close to spending the money
for something else, but never did. This year by sticking to our
budget, we were able to add enough to the fund to buy a Bell &
Howell sound projector.
We now have a bulletin board in front of the club. The board
is of redwood construction, and will be illuminated for night display. I would like to thank the board, the Grand Lodge, and
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge for helping us to obtain this very
welcome addition to the club.
Special thanks go to you the Board of Trustees, and to our
Hostess Mrs. Edna Morton for the very welcome suggestions

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and cooperation you have given me in the past year. Many thanks
also go to my two unofficial assistants, Past Vice-President,
Helen Blake, and President Elect, Bob Keldgord. They will never
know how much help they were.

. facilities available for all Masons and their relatives attending both
campuses of the University at Berkeley and at Los Angeles. Many of
the Lodges have printed in their bulletins excerpts pertaining to this
phase of the proclamation and we sincerely trust that others will follow
this course. The greatest favor that the Masons of California could confer upon the Clubhouses would be the giving of the maximum publicity
possible to the members of our Lodges concerning the opportunities for
good fellowship and lasting friendship which these Clubhouses afford.
It is in order that we here give credit to our hostess, Mrs. Edna M.
Morton, for keeping our expenditures down and making possible the
good showing above referred to. The underexpenditure is largely due to
savings on assistants to the hostess and in the janitorial department. It
is also proper here to commend our architect for his interest and patience
in solving numerous mechanical problems-for donning his coveralls
and crawling about the attic and basement in search of the answers to
our ventilating and heating problems. This was necessary because of
the absence of proper plans and details showing these facilities as altered
through the years. As a result of this effort, the office of the hostess for
the first time since the building was built is now receiving proper heat
from the main furnace. With this kind of help and the assistance of a
good Building Committee, which last year was headed by Brother Rus. sell C. Horstmann, we have been able to obtain greatly increased efficiency from the equipment and furnishings in the building.

124

Cordially and fraternally yours,
(Signed ) ROBERT V. AIRHART
President, 1950-1951"
Dated June 19, 1951
There follows a table of social events and figures showing approximate cost and attendance at each of these events, which table is appended to our report as Exhibit "B". Neither the membership figures
nor the attendance figures, however, fully indicate the extensive use to
which the building was put during the past year by other students and
guests, many of whom are, of course, potential members.
Attention was directed last year to the purchase by the students
themselves from their own dues of a public address system and its installation by them throughout the building. You will note from the above
report that the president and students point with pride to a further evidence of their faith in this fine· home, this time to the purchase by them
of a moving picture projector. As yet the Berkeley Clubhouse has no
television set while the Los Angeles Clubhouse has. Still, until there is a
demand here f~r this type.of entertainment or equipment, your board is
content to confine its requests to more essential items.
It is with genuine sorrow we report the sudden passing on March
24, 1951 of Brother Boyd B. Rakestraw, Past Master of Henry Morse
Stephens Lodge No. 541 and one of the three oldest directors in point of
service on the board. He had been an administrator of note in Washington as well as at the State University. For many years last past he served
as Manager of the large University Extension Division of the University of California and as Assistant Director thereof. For a score of years
he sat as a representative on the Student Council helping them with their
problems, affording them university contacts and often obtaining for
them favors which meant so much to them. All of us connected with the
club will long remember him for his selB.ess service. Lately, his place has
been filled by the nomination of Grand Master Arthur Paulsen of
Brother Walter T . Helms, Past Master of McKinley Lodge No. 347 of
Richmond, who like his predecessor, comes to us well qualified, both as
to administrative ability and executive experiences. in the management
and operation of buildings, as well as the more important qualification of
long experience in working and dealing with students and personnel.
Our particular thanks go to Grand Master Paulsen for making a
special proclamation calling the attention of the Lodges and the brethren
throughout this Grand Lodge Jurisdiction to the Clubhouses and their

Respectfully submitted,
WALTERT. HELMS
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN
R. P. WISECARVER
RUSSELL c. HORSTMANN
CARL B. MuNcK
PAUL BOREN
LEO E. SIEVERT
FRANK R. KILLINGER

s.

EARL WARREN

125

126

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXHIBIT "B"'

EXHIBIT "A"
MASONIC CLUB OF THE UNIVERSITY

Proposed Budget for the Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 1952
Actual
Year 1950-51
Expenses:
Resident hostess -·····-·-··-··-··-······-··-·· ········-··---···· 2,650.00
Janitorial and gardener..·-···············- ·-········-······-····· 1,039.00
752.00
Attendants ·····················································-······-·······
300.00
Accountant ···-··················-···············-·········-··········-···
630.55
Annual cleaning ·························-··-····-······-··-···········
368.30
Repairs ···········-··-·········-·············-······-··-··········-··-···
Taxes, property ·······························-··················- ······· 2,156.32
Heat, light and water..·-··-··············-··-·-·····-··········· 1,218.00
482.18
Janitor supplies ···-······-······-·······································
372.47
Insurance, fire, compensation, liability..........·-·······
136.00
Miscellaneous ···················-··············-···························
157.22
Telephone, net ···-····-··························-······-···············
88.94
Garden supplies ·······-······················-·······················-··
46.83
Social security taxes..................·-··-············-······-·······
56.40
Garbage ···················-··············-··················-··-···········-~
135.27
Office supplies, periodicals, postage..·-············-·······
100.00
Auditing, annual fee ..........·-······-··--··-······,.··-··- ··--

Budgeted
Year 1951-52
$ 3,000.00
1,500.00
1,500.00
360.00
650.00
400.00
2,200.00
1,300.00
550.00
500.00
200.00
200.00
100.00
50.00
70.00
150.00
100.00

Total expense ···-········--··············-··············-·······$10,689.48
Equipment and property improvements (see Note 1
below) ···-··-··-······-··········-··-······-·············-·····-··-······· 1,442.77
Total ordinary expenditures..............................$12,132.25
Reimbursement by Grand Lodge for building
improvements, equipment, etc·-········-····················· 3,000.00
Depreciation allowance ···········-············-··-··········-······· 4,010.00

$12,830.00

Totals ·-······-··-··-··········-··-······-··-··- ··········-··-···$19,142.25
Budget income 1950-51..............................$20,500.00
Budget allowance for September,
21,479.83
979.83
1950, expense ·······- ··-··-··············-·······-··

127

3,370.00
$16,200.00
3,000.00
4,010.00
$23,210.00

Budget income 1950-51 in excess of expense
and allowances (see Note 2 below)..·-··············-··-$ 2,337.58
Note 1. The proposed budget for equipment and property improvements,
$3,370.00, is composed of the following:
Stage curtain replacement..$ 500.00
Two rugs, lounge..............$ 450.00
Replacing stage floor............ 350.00
Replace outside steps in
75.00
Study room ventilators........
front of building............ 1,330.00
50.00
Window shades ·······-···········
Rewiring overloaded
15.00
Glass top, hostess desk..........
electrical circuit
75.00
Couch, men's lounge............
(including new panel).. 500.00
25.00
Lamp for student desk....
Note 2. In previous year 1949-50 budget was over-expended $2,808.68; no
reimbursement was asked for or granted by Grand Lodge.

. The t~ble below is a list of our social events for the past year. Also
mcluded m the table are the approximate cost and approximate attend,~
ance.
Approx. Cost Approx. Attend.
Event-Fall Term
$ 80.00
300
·-···································
.....
Program.
Open House
30.00
Hallowe'en Costume Ball...........-.........................
125
100.00
U. C. L.A. Weekend...........-.................................
200
50.00
Big Game Float.................................-.....................
100 .
20.00
Big Game Dance-·-··············-······-··········-···········
300.00
Christmas Formal ..................................................
200
50.00
Kiddies Party ..........................................................
50
600.00
250
Initiation Formal ···········-····················-············...
Event-Spring Term
250
Open House Program..........·-······-··-··················· $150.00
20.00
75
Sock Hop Dance..·-······-······-··-·················-·········
25.00
40
Smoker ·······················- ···········································
Grand Master's Reception.......................,............
850.00
275
Women's Tea ..........................................................
30.00
100
Apache Dance ........................................................
70.00
50
Variety Show ..........................................................
50.00
150
Picnic ........................................................................
85
Initiation Formal ..................................................
400.00
200
$2,825.00
Listed below is an approximate financial report: ....
Total expense above........·-··-··-··············-···········$2,825.00
Other expense ........................................................ 600.00

Total expense ................................................$3,"25.00
Income from dues..·-··········-··-················-··-·······$3,000.00
Income from tickets...- ..········-······-······-··········· 650.00
75.00
Other income ···················-·····································
Total Income -···-·····-··-·-··-···---·······--~ 725.00
Gross amount turned over to New Council...______·-·-··-··········-·-·······$ 300.00

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
MASONIC CLUB HOUSE, LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The activities and uses at the Masonic Club House adjacent to the
campus of the University of California at Los Angeles have been so
varied and numerous.during the past year that your Board of Directors
can only hope to summarize them in this report.
During the past year the University has completed additional facilities for undergraduate and graduate students. Notable among these
new buildings is the unique and specially designed building housing the
School of Law, which was opened last month. Much progress has been
made ·also in connection with the School of Medicine and teaching hospital which are to rise on the campus. Our club house remains, however,
as one of the ornaments of Westwood Village, which definitely is no
longer a village.
The major value and chief use of the club house remains the day by
day, hour by hour coming and going of a large group of students. As a
place to study, its Thompson Hall, library and three conference rooms
are not surpassed on the campus; for relaxation, its spacious lounge,
televi~on room and radio corner are greatly prized. The dining room
and snack bar cater to the requirements of the inner man, while the
billiard room and auditorium-ballroom provide ample space and facilities for the more active and larger events.
During the academic year which closed in June sixty-six group
meetings and social gatherings were held. The attendance record made
by the Director of Activities shows that over 7,400 students attended
these affairs with several drawing more than five hundred students to a
single affair. The calendar discloses a variety of programs ranging from
vocational discussion groups to formal balls.
Mention should be made that the students have not confined their
activites to their own welfare and pleasure, however. During the
Thanksgiving recess the students had as their guests at the club house
forty-five boys and girls chosen by the All Nations Club who otherwise
would not have had a turkey dinner .at that season. Each week five students, in rotation, made the twenty mile trip across to the east side of the
city to serve as recreational assistants at the All Nations Club. The student group also held several benefit affairs for the summer camp for
underprivileged children which the university student body sponsors.
Our report last year mentions that a large department store was
under construction immediately to the east and also fronting on Le Conte

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

129

Avenue. It has now been completed and opened. Anticipating s~me such
development. your Board of Directors acquired, ten years ago, twentytw~ feet .additional frontage as a buffer between our building and any
which might be erected to the east. We might as well confess that we
permitted the general contractor to use this parcel during construction
and in return exacted, without cost to us, the reenforcement of our rear
foundations, landscaping of the buffer area and the paving of a larger
out door patio area. The unique architecture of this widely spread commercial neighbor is such that the two block frontage of it and our club
house is pleasing and similar.
Ten days ago we received the resignation of Brother Oscar Lawler,
P.G.M., as a member of the Board and accepted it with regrets. His
association with the Board during the past six years had been most
pleasing and beneficial and we shall miss his genial personality and
valuable counsel. His successor has not been elected yet.
The new university semester is less than a month under way and
official registration figures have not been announced. Unofficial tabulations indicate that, as with collegiate institutions across the nation, enrollment has dropped. The student registration will. however, exceed
14,000. Early returns indicate that the membership at the club house
will equal that of last year.
Your Board has adopted a proposed budget for the coming year and
respectfully requests an appropriation therefor. Despite increases for
our employees' salaries and property taxes, again this year, as in 1948,
we have adopted a budget which is less than that for the precediDg year,
less by $1.335.00. The items of the budget are as follows:

D·irector ..........•.......••....•......................••....:..........$ 3, 180.00.
Assistant to Director............................................ 2,100.00
Building assistants .............................................. 1, H0.00
General building maintenance............................ 1,500.00
Gardener and gardening....................................
500.00
Magazines and newspapers................................
125.00
Heat, light, water and power.............................. 1,200.00
Telephone ............................................................
300.00
Office supplies ......................................................
125.00
Postage ................................................................
100.00
Taxes .................................................................. 3,000.00
Insurance ............................................................
400.00
Auditing ..............................................................
100.00
Stationery and printing........................................
200.00
Social security ......................................................
300.00

130

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Depreciation •....................................................... 4,495.00
100.00
Miscellaneous ..................•......•............................

Total........................................................$19,165.00
Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH MEYER, Chairman
A. CURTIS SMITH, Vice-Chairman
C. EARLE CRANE, Secretary
JoHN M. AsKIN
HERBERT H. COOPER
ELVIN C. DRAKE
MARION A. DUNCAN
WM. R. GALLAGHER
JoHN A. KLARQUIST
JoHN STEWART Ross
CLYDE c. SHOEMAKER
E. WADE
HOWARD WILSON
Referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Most Worshipful Fred W. Moore, Grand Master of Masons in
Arizona, at the invitation of the Grand Master, favored the Grand
Lodge with an address.
At 4:25 P.M., Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 A.M. Tuesday morning.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

131

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1951
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
.
The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain gave the opening prayer.
The Minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday,
October 8 were read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee which was appointed by the Grand Master on
February 5, 1951, reports as follows:
This Committee has inspected many of the so-called Masonic publications published in this jurisdiction; has made extensive inquiries and investigation and has held two formal hearings at which owners of such
publications by invitation appeared and voluntarily responded to questions propounded by members of this Committee. The questions, answers and comment were taken by official Court Reporters, members of
our fraternity, and reduced to transcript form. One hearing was held in
Los Angeles on April 7, 1951, and the other in San Francisco on June
23, 1951.
At the Los Angeles hearing the following appeared:
Calvin Jesse Carey, Publisher of Bay Area Mason and Eastern Star.
His father, Ernest Regan Carey, voluntarily appeared and testified
but he had no financial interest in the publication.
Marguerite Pray, Publisher of The Masonic News of Huntington
Park.
Ben Morrison, Publisher of Masonic Review Digest.
Norman Ives Stewart, Publisher of Masonic Directory and Eastern
Star News.
Cecil Loomis, Publisher of The Channel Counties Mason and Eastern Star.
.
Mike S. Oldershaw, Publisher of Kern County Masonry and Eastern
Star.
The following were invited but did not attend:
J. H. Hovick, Publisher of Hiram's Masonic Journal.
F. A. Barman, Publisher of Hiram's Masonic Herald.
Frank Thomas, Publisher of The Masonic Magazine and Eastern
Star News.
At the San Francisco hearing the following appeared:
Glenn Martin Whitfield. Publisher of The Masonic Star. His attorney, Alfred Breslauer, was present. His wife, Mrs. Whitfield, a part
owner, was present and testified.

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sidney M. Brown, Publisher of The Masonic Trestle Board and East
Bay Masonic News.
James Adam, Publisher of The Masonic World.
The following were invited but did not attend:
Sidney H. Foster, Editor of Fellowship. a Magazine for Masons.
Cecil F. Neely, Scribe Vallejo Pyramid of Sciots, Publisher of The
Masonic News.
Marcus L. Waltz, Publisher of San Luis Obispo County Mason &
Eastern Star.
Ted Staatz. Publisher of Sciots Booster.
From the . inspections, inquiries, investigations and hearings this
Committee finds concerning said so-called Masonic Publications as
follows:
1~ All persons who appeared at the hearings were members of our
fraternity except two: all members belong to Lodges in this jurisdiction except two who belong to Lodges in Chicago. All publications published by non-Masons which came to our attention
sprang from publications started by Masons.
2. The owners who appeared at the hearings and others operate
their publications for their own personal gain and private profit
and advertising is their major source of revenue.
3. There are more than twenty such publications, using in their titles
the words Mason, Masons or Masonic, published in this jurisdiction, sixteen of which have been examined by one or more members of this Committee. None of said publications has official sanction, which was admitted by all owners who testified. None rises
to the dignity of a creditable Masonic publication. From a news
standpoint none possesses originality and all except one or two
would contain no news but for the "scissors and the paste pot".
4. Few of said publications have a worthy subscription list and some
have none. Distribution is effected partially by some and wholly
by others by placing bundles of publications in lodge halls, temples and other meeting .places.
5. One of the publications has members of Job's Daughters and of
Eastern Star solicit subscriptions in several localities upon a
commission basis.
·
6. Some of the publications use or have used lodge rosters and the
Grand Lodge roster to obtain subscriptions and advertising. One
publication carries a feature called "Lodge of the Month", in
which is printed the history of a particular Lodge and the Secretary or a member of that Lodge makes up and delivers a mailing
list to the publisher so that a copy of the issue may go to the members of the Lodge. This contravenes Masonic law. ( 732 Ross Digest.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

133

7. Some of the publications solicit and obtain trestle boards and news
items for publication purposes from various Lodges and some
Lodges even pay some of the publications five cents per member
per issue for such publishing. This violates Masonic law. ( 732
Ross Digest. )
8. Some of the publications solicit, obtain and publish special article~
written by Grand Lodge Officers.
9. One publication maintains its business office in a Masonic Temple.
10. Some of the publications obtain and publish pictures of Grand
Lodge Officers without their consent. One such publication published the picture of our Grand Master on the front page without
his permission. This perversity was obviously calculated to capture pecuniary advantage on the ·avenue of official significance.
11. One publication carries a printed list of advisers consisting of
members of Grand Lodge and even Past Grand Masters. This
tends to lend official sanction.
·
12. Some of these publications have been constituted official publications of bodies whose membership requires Masonic affiliation.
This tends to confer official sanction because some people believe
that members of such bodies are Masons of first rank. One publication carried a statement that it was the official publication of
two particular Masonic District Officers Associations but the
statement has been withdrawn since this Committee started work.
13. At least two of said publications are incorporated possibly as a
shield ~gainst liability to the true owners.
14. Some years ago a Masonic Periodicals Corporation was formed
under the guise of making a publication to disseminate Masonic
light. Some $80,000.00 worth of stock was sold to members in this
state. It failed miserably-approaching a Masonic scandal.
15. A publisher of one of the publications using "Masonic" in its
title was sued for slander in the courts of this state but the case
was dismissed.
16. All owners, except two, who appeared at the hearings stated that
they would discontinue the use of Masonic words in their titles
if Grand Lodge so decreed.
17. Some publications publish political advertising and liquor ads
which cast discredit upon our fraternity. It is not lawful for our
rosters to be used for political purposes by candidates. So the publications which use our rosters and publish political ads indirectly
thwart our law. ( 732 Ross Digest.)
18. At least one publication has published the name of an applicant
for the degrees. This is transgression of our law.

1341

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

19. Most publications have advertisi ng solicitor s-Mason s and nonMasons, men and women- varying in number from one to twenty,
who work on a commission basis of from 30% to 60% of the
price of the ads obtained. Most of these solicitors work in California hut some work in other states. They solicit from Masons
and non-Mas ons mostly by telephone.
20. The advertisi ng rate ranges from $2.50 to $7.50 per column inch.
21. Advertis ing by these publications appears to he the major basis
of evil to our fraternit y. Many complaints concerning advertisi ng
have come to our attention some of which are as follows:
a. Certain salesmen get leads from the yellow section of the telephone book: usually solicit by telephone: collect in advance
and many advertise rs get the impression that the publication is
official and that part of the funds might go to the Masonic
Homes.
b. Recently a salesman posing as a doctor phon.ed a certain dentist, who is not a Mason, and requeste d permission to repeat
his ad in a special edition. The dentist learned the name of his
publication and stated that his ad had been in another Masonic
publication, whereup on the salesman stated that some are not
official and hung up.
c. There have been numerous publications that start mainly for
the advertisi ng. They have no cfrculation whateve r, are unethical and misleading.
d . Salesmen for one publication on being refused ads requeste d
donation s to the charity fund of a so-called Masonic organization which were promised. In a day or so the businessmen who
had promised received a statemen t for the amount promised
with the request that the check he made payable to the publication. Some were so made hut others were made to said charity
fund. The checks which were payable to the charity fund were
received by it with laudation . Some of the checks which were
made to the publication were not turned over to the charity
fund.
e. One publishe r had two . experiences where salesme n-nonMasons -came to work for him, obtained copies of advertisi ng
contracts , lists of advertise rs and prospects, quit and started
publications of their own. This publishe r said that non-Mas ons
are the better salesmen.
f. In one town salesmen phoned businessmen for ads stating. untruthfull y, that they were calling from Masonic Temple. When
response s were favorable the salesmen would rush over and
collect the money. In another town a salesman while soliciting

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

135

ads said that he was a Mason. The Chief of Police found otherwise and the salesman left town immediately.
g. Last year one publication solicited ads from a certain industry
by long distance telephon e stating that the proceeds , above
operatin g expenses, would he turned over to a charity operated
by one of the so-called Masonic organiza tions. A full page of
one-half inch ads was obtained and publishe d for each of which
the publication received from $25.00 to $150.00. No part of the
proceeds reached said charity.
h. In one town a publication solicited ads from merchan ts upon the
ground that the Lodge there needed a new carpet. It .got the
ads hut the Lodge did not get help for its carpet.
i. Over four years ago two s~lesmen for a publication solicited
and collected over $2,000.00 for ads and received their commission hut the ads have never been published and no refunds
made except a small fraction which resulted from action by the
Sheriff and District Attorney .
j. While soliciting ads by telephone for one publication the salesman uses the name of Mr. Wilson leading his hearer to believe
that he is our Grand Secretar y.
k. In at least one instance the advertisi ng solicitor of one publication, attached it to his own and used it to secure alleged renewal ads for his publication.
I. Shortly after a merchan t and one of his employees had applied
to a certain Lodge for the degrees and before the applications
had hten acted upon a salesman for a publication phoned the
merchan t soliciting an ad and emphasi zed that his was a Masonic paper. The merchan t took the ad because he felt that his
refusal might prejudice his application.
m. In another case a recently raised Master Mason purchase d an
ad from a publication because he was made to feel that his refusal would he un-Maso nic.
n. In many .instance s. Chiefs of Police and District Attorney s
have received and investiga ted complaints involving unethica l
and unlawfu l advertisi ng solicitations by salesmen for certain
publications.
o. The Californ ia Intelligence Bureau reported concerning one
·
publication in effect as follows:
1. Five telephon es are used to obtain advertisements.
2. Salesmen use standard "pitch"- reason for calling now is
- ..rea dy t o go to press...
3. "This is the Shrine, Masonic and Eastern Star paper for
this city, you know."

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

4. Unauthorized ads have appeared in this publication for
which collections are attempted and in some cases made.
5. Solicitors, it is said, read an ad from another publication
over the phone to their prospects and frequently cause
them to believe that they would be repeating a former ad
in the soliciting publication.
p. Many complaints concerning advertising by these Publications have reached Chambers of Commerce, Better Business
BUl'eaus, Merchants' Credit Associations, Bunco Squads and
Masonic Boards of Relief.
q. A private investigator reported concerning advertising in one
publication as follows:
"Do not be misled-the publication is merely trading on
the value of the term 'Masonic'."
r. Complaints, local and from other sources, concerning advertising by these publications continually reach the office of our
Grand Secretary.
s. A woman from Bellflower, under high pressure, placed a $5.00
ad in one publication. Her business, by which she was supporting herself and her two small children, went broke. She
wrote this publication, as well as The Tidings and Knights of
Columbus Magazine in which she had also placed ads, of her
financial misfortune. The latter two cancelled their bills but
the so-called Masonic publication turned its $5.00 bill over to
a collection agency. The woman paid the $5.00 and stated in
a letter accompanying the money in part as follows:
"I want you to know that paying this is taking milk from
our children. But if the Masons are that poor I know my
children will understand. . . . I had always been led to
believe that the Masons were pledged to help others especially the unfortunate children but after this experience
it must ·b e just a come on for donations.''
From its investigation and the above findings your Committee has
reached the following conclusions:
I. All Masons have declared upon their honor that they were
uninfluenced by mercenary motives in seeking admission to
our fraternity.
II. These so-called Masonic publications by their very names,
nature and method of operation, however extensive the publishers' denial. convey to the general public official Masonic
status. ·
III. Advertising or solicitation thereof by a Lodge or by a Mason
in or for any publication or medium which purports to be
. Masonic in name or character achieves exploitation of the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

great name of our fraternity and is repugnant to the fundamental traditions and unwritten law of Masonry.
IV. Advertising practices by so-called Masonic publications in
this jurisdiction have in numerous cases reached the level of
a racket which must not be tolerated by this Grand Lodge.
V. Masonry abhors the use of its good name for commercial
purposes.
VI. That a copy of this report including the resolution which follows be sent by the Grand Secretary to the Master of every
Lodge in this jurisdiction with directions to read the same at
three stated meetings and that a copy thereof be sent by the
Grand Secretary to every Inspector in this jurisdiction who
shall be required to report every infraction of the resolution
to the Grand Master.
VII. That a copy of the resolution which follows be mailed by the
Grand Secretary to every so-called Masonic publication in
this state with a statement that it is now the law of this
jurisdiction.
VIII. That a copy of the resolution which follows be sent by mail in
a sealed envelope by every Lodge in this jurisdiction to all
members thereof with a statement that it is now the law of
this jurisdiction.
IX. That this Committee, but not necessarily its present members,
be continued for the purpose of giving further consideration
to tb.e promiscuous use of our name, symbols, emblems and
insignia.
On the morning of October 18, 1873, in this Grand Lodge assembled
our brothers spoke as follows:
"If Masons, being about to engage, or already engaged, in a
private enterprise, seek by any means whatever to induce the public to believe that their enterprise is, or is to be, conducted under the
auspices, or under the control and management, or upon the credit
and responsibility of the frate~ity of Masons, they are guilty of
a fraud upon the public and an outrage upon Masonry, and should
be dealt with accordingly. As to the public, they are seeking its
confidence under false pretenses and are unworthy to be trusted:
and as to Masonry, they regard not its good name among men, but,
for their own private gain, would expose it to the risk of bearing all
the odium necessarily attendant upon possible mismanagement and
failure."
"Its (Masonry's) symbols and emblems, its signs and tokens, its
name and fame, its rank and honorable titles, belong not to an
individual for his own use and benefit, but are talents entrusted to

138

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

him to be used for special and exclusive purposes. These purposes
are purely Masonic, and there is no reasonable excuse for misap·
prehension of their true and lawful use. That Masonry, or anything
which is incidental to it, is intended or contemplated to be hawked
about and used in the business pursuits and struggles of men, as
capital for making money or for the advancement of their mere
personal triumphs, is the grossest perversion of noble aims and the
most cheating of popular fallacies."
(Proceedings 1873 Page 220)
· Your Committee therefore presents the following resolution:
Resolved: That Section 127 of Ordinances be amended by adding at
the end thereof the following:
· No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of
Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of
any kind in or for any medium or publication, which purports to be
Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body.
order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to
membership.
JoHN R. MooRE
ARTHUR

s. CRITES

WILL H. FISCHER
HENRY

c. CLAUSEN

NEWCOMB CoNoEE

Past Grand Master Moore announced that the report as read had the
unanimous approval of the Committee on Jurisprudence and the approval
of all members of the Committee on Policy anl General Purposes except
one, and he moved that the report be adopted.
The motion of Brother Alfred Breslauer that action on the report be
deferred until the 1952 Annual Communication was ruled to be a privi·
leged question and therefore not debatable.
The motion was not adopted.
The report of the Committee was adopted.
By unanimous vote of the Grand Lodge, the Committee was ordered
continued.

139

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
WRITTEN CEREMONIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California:
At our last annual communication a recommendation was adopted ·
that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee to examine
and report at this communication on the written ceremonies of this
grand lodge. The committee appointed for that purpose herewith pre·
sents its report.
We have examined in detail the existing ceremonies for the laying
of cornerstones, the institution of new lodges, the constitution of newly
chartered lodges, the dedication of Masonic halls and the presentation
of fifty year buttons. It was not our purpose to rewrite any of these
ceremonies, only to remove inconsistencies, inaccurate statements, correct grammar and revise such floor work as detracted from the occasion.
We attach to this report a complete copy of these ceremonies as revised
and recommend that they be adopted in the form presented herewith.
It will be immediately apparent that we have not suggested modifications which change the theme or substance of any of these cere·
monies. Only one slight addition is made to any. We are, however,
suggesting numerous al~erations and we desire that the representatives
of the constituent lodges be fully advised as to those modifications
which we recommend. They are too numerous to be detailed separately
in this report•but the committee is prepared to state its reasons for any
and every change, if desired. For the convenience of the brethren assembled at this communication and in the interest of economy of time,
we shall outline in general terms some of the modifications and point
directly to those which may be classified as being of a more pronounced
nature.
In the matter of punctuation and the use of capital letters, we have
made many revisions to conform to modern usage. The ceremonies as
printed heretofore have used punctuation and capital letters according
to standards not prevalent today.
In three instances, the laying of cornerstones, the instituting of new
lodges and the dedicating of Masonic halls, we have changed the order
of speeches opening the ceremonies. When the officers arrive at the site
of the cornerstone the ceremony as it exists today opens, without any
introduction, with.a prayer by the Grand Chaplain and after the prayer,
the Grand Master explains the reason for the gathering. We have re·
vised this portion so that the Grand Master's declaration comes first and
then the prayer, after which the ceremony continues. The ceremony for
instituting a new lodge, at present, opens with a biblical passage by the
Grand Master, then a prayer by the Grand Chaplain and then a declara·

140

141

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion by the Grand Master as to the reason for the gathering. We recom•
mend that the declaration come first and that after the Grand Master
has stated the reason for the assemblage, the ceremony should continue.
The ceremony for the dedication of a Masonic hall at present opens
with a speech by the Grand Master as to dedications and historical
facts and after he has spoken at some length, the Master of the lodge
invites him to dedicate the hall and the Grand Master accepts the
invitation. We recommend that the ceremony open with the invitation
and the acceptance and that then the Grand Master detail the Biblical
and historical matters. It has been our experience that due to the open·
ing of these ceremonies in the manner existing at present, Grand Masters
in past years have felt constrained to make some extemporaneous explanation of the occasion before taking up the ritualistic work. The ritualistic explanation for the assemblage in each instance is entirely adequate and logically should come before the prayers, or Biblical and
historical matters. The ceremony in each instance will then naturally
and logically be opened.
.
In several instances we have taken the expression of a thought out
of a negative form and put in into a positive form. One example will
suffice to illustrate these changes. In the ceremony for instituting a new
lodge, as it exists at the present time, the Grand Master in speaking of
the duty of a Mason says, "He must not hesitate to refuse to recom·
mend any man for the degrees of Masonry unless he has strong reasons
to believe that he will ultimately reflect honor upon our ancient institution." We recommend that this thought be stated in the positive form:
"He should refuse to recommend any man for the degrees of Masonry
unless he has strong reasons to believe that the applicant will ultimately
reflect honor on our ancient institution."
In the ceremony of dedicating a Masonic hall we have eliminated
the procession of the grand officers around the ~mblem. We recog~ize
that our ancient brethren were given to processions on many occasions
and that it is probably a relic from times past, however, it has been .our
observation that this procession usually detracts from the occasion.
There is no time for a rehearsal and it is often difficult of execution due
to the attendance and crowded condition. We strongly recommend
that the procession be deleted and have made no provision for it in the
ceremony as revised.
In the ceremonies for the dedication of a Masonic hall and the
constitution of a newly chartered lodge, all of the grand lodge officers
are formed in a square around the emblem and in the latter the brethren
of the lodge are formed in another square around the grand lodge
officers. The result has been that there is a closed square, or two squares,
around the emblem and the brethren seated on the sidelines cannot see
what is occurring within, thus the core of the entire ceremony is c~m­
pletely screened from those who came to see it. In these two ceremomes,
we have retained the square, but have formed it with only six grand

officers widely separated. The brethren who are seated on the sidelines
will be able to see the entire ceremony and the form of the square will be
preserved. In these ceremonies we have omitted the kneeling of the
officers and what the book has called the grand honors but which were
not the grand honors in this jurisdiction. ·
In most of the ceremonies, we are presenting the prayers of the
Grand Chaplain in slightly simplified forms. At present, he addresses
the Great Creator by from three to five titles or attributes. We have
reduced these to one or two. We believe that the prayers of the Grand
Chaplain, while not changed in substance, are presented in forms more
in keeping with the tempo of modem times. We have also eliminated a
few phrases which speak of God as being jealous or vengeful and instead, we ascribe to Him the attributes of love and light.
The prayer of the Chaplain in the ceremony for presenting fifty
year buttons has been entirely rewritten. The existing form in effect
tells the recipient that he has one foot in the grave and the other on sinking ground. We know of no reason why this or any other prayer need
be morbid. We also have delayed the conducting of the recipient to the
center of the lodge so that he will not be required to stand so long. We
have tried to retain the essentials but to brighten this ceremony. It
should be a happy occasion and not one concerned with the suggestion
of death. We require the Master to talk while adjusting the button, in
the hope that facetious remarks sometimes heard about the adjusting
will be avoided.
·
In the ceremony for the constitution of a lodge we have omitted the
Installation of officers. It should be remem·b ered that under the provi·
sions of our 1aw this ceremony must occur within sixty days after an
annual communication; in other words, it must occur between the middle of October and the middle of . December. Almost invariably, constitution ceremonies are scheduled prior to the election of officers at the
December stated meeting. The result is that two complete installations
of officers are made in two months or less. It has been our observation
also that when the grand lodge is called to refreshment for the purpose
of Installing the officers, many of those in attendance depart. Usually
there Is a delay for a substantial time while the lodge room is set up for
the installation. The ceremony for the institution of a new lodge has
never contained the installation service and we are at a loss to understand any necessity for the installation as a part of the constitution
ceremony if it is entirely proper for the officers to function in their
respective stations and places from the time of the institution until the
constitution without being installed. The installation is also somewhat
of an anomaly because the ceremony of constitution is in the grand
lodge. Under the present form , the grand lodge opens, constitutes the
new lodge and then calls off, the grand lodge officers vacate their sta·
tfons and places, a constituent lodge at refreshment comes into being
without having been opened, the officers thereof are installed, the con-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

142

143

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

stituent lodge is called off and labor resumed in the grand lodge. In the
form which we recommend, the entire evening will be a grand lodge
affair without the interposition of a constituent lodge. We believe time
will be saved, confusion avoided and a few speeches go undelivered.
In the ceremony for laying a cornerstone, at present, the Grand
Master declares the purpose of the assemblage by speaking to the Senior
Grand Warden and ordering him to notify the Junior Grand Warden.
who in turn is directed to notify those assembled as to the purpose of
the gathering. Within a tiled meeting we are accustomed to this method
of passing an order of the chair to the brethren, but to the profane it
must seem a peculiar custom and one for which they are unlikely to flnd
any rhyme or reason. In the form which we recommend, the Grand
Master makes the declaration directly to those assembled without pass..
ing it down through the grand wardens. It appears to us that this par..
ticular of the existing ceremony serves no purpose, unless it be to take
up time, hence we have eliminated it. In this ceremony we are recom..
mending the addition of two very short paragraphs immediately before
the corn, wine and oil are poured upon the stone. It appears to your com ..
mittee that those assembled might wonder why these three things were
poured upon the stone and we have given a brief explanation therefore.
We have also made a slight change in the procedure for testing the
stone. As it exists at the present time, the Grand Master lays the stone
and then directs the Deputy Grand Master to ascertain if it is square and
the two grand wardens to ascertain whether it is level and properly
adjusted. It appears to us that it would be more logical for the Grand
Master to ascertain whether the stone was square before he laid it. For
that reason we have him direct the Deputy Grand Master to ascertain
whether the stone is square, the Grand Master lays it and has the grand
wardens ascertain whether it has been properly laid. At the present
time when the Grand Master directs the Senior Grand Warden to ascer..
tain whether the stone is level. the Senior Grand Warden reports that ·
he finds "In that respect the craftsmen have done their duty." After his
testing of the stone. the Junior Grand Warden makes the same report.
As a matter of fact, the craftsmen have had nothing whatever to do with
making the stone level or properly adjusting it, these have been done
by the Grand Master. We recommend the modification o~ the responses
of the two grand' wardens so that they will merely report that the stone
is level and is properly adjusted without stating who is responsible.
In this ceremony we also have omitted a half dozen words applicable
only to a Masonic temple, which omissions will make the ceremony
proper for either a public building or a Masonic temple and will not
require improvision by the Grand Master, as is suggested in the book at
the present time, when he is laying the cornerstone of a public building.
In both the cornerstone and dedication ceremonies, we have made
slight modifications of the remarks made to the principal Architect. It
has been our observation that the brother designated to take the part of

the Principal Architect is seldom the actual architect of the ·building and
even may ~ave n~ actual connection with the plans or construction. On
both occasions this fact will be .known to the brethren assembled and fo
some of the profane at the public ceremony. We believe that in the form
which we are recommending the language is such that it will retaiD.· all
th.e substance of the present phraseology but will not stimulate in the
m.Ind~ of obse~ers the fact that the brother who receives or returns the
working tools is not the architect of the building. In each ceremony in
which the Master of the lodge or the Principal Architect speaks we have
made the tongue twisting phraseology more easy of expre;sion arid
slightlr shorter. This should be a boon to those who have to memorize
these Imes.
,, In several ceremonies as they exist at present, reference is made fo!
The Grand
of California•" "The Grand Lodge•" "Our G ran
· · 'd
M
" "O Lodge
ur ?,St W ?.rshipful Grand Lodge," "The Most Worship..
Lod ge,
ful <;ir~nd Lodge and The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Cali..
~ornia. None of these references is technically correct and in no instance
m any of the c~remonies is this body referred to by its actual title. We
have in the various ceremonies substituted the correct title· "The M t
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons. of the
of Cal~forma, :with one exception, in the charge given to the officers
collectiv.ely durmg the ceremony of institution of a new lodge• .The
charge is taken from the ceremony of installation verbatim and that
cere~ony was not referred to this committee. In this instance we have
sacrificed accuracy in the interest of uniformity.
.
~he ~oregoing examples will indicate the maximum extent of the
modifi.cation;i to be found in the ceremonies which we recommend for
adoption. They do not indicate the number of modifications because we
have not detailed a report as to the changes of an article, a preposition,
~ noun or the reconstruction of a sentence, but they will serve to fully
inform yo~ as to the nature of the changes being recommended.
. There is one matter which was not expressly delegated to this comm.Itte~ upon which w~ desire to make a recommendation, the form of
opem~g on the occas~on o~ a special communication. As far as your
~ommittee can asc~rtam, t~is body has adopted only one form of open..
mg, the form used. m opening the annual communication; however, it has .
been our observation that from time to time special communications have
bee~ ?pened by the use of portions of this opening ceremony and the
omiss10n. of. other portions. It is difficult on the occasion of a special
commumcabo~ to select the necessary number of local brethren to fill
all of th~ stab~ns and places and it is difficult to provide those acting
temporarily :with the n~cessary information that they may take their
proper part m the opening ceremony. It is the consensus of opinion in
som.e quarters that t?ere should be a greatly simplified form of opening
available fc;>r. a special communication. We present, herewith, a short
form of opening. It may be subject to the criticism that it is the ultimate

Wors~ipful. q~an~

St~:e

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in streamlining, but it is difficult to select particular portions of the reg-

ular opening which will meet varying conditions. The use of only those
portions which are similar to the opening of a constituent lodge in the
third degree tends to make the special occasion commonplace and the
pnsent practice of variation from occasion to occasion does not appeal
to your committee. In defense of this short form. which amounts really
only to an opening by proclamation, it ~ho?ld be pointed out _that .w~ether
it is used, or the full form is used, will in each instance he within the
discretion of the Grand Master. Your committee presents this abbreviated form for discussion and adoption, if it is determined that it is desirable to have an abbreviated form which is legally sanctioned.
The ceremony of installation of officers in the grand lodge was also
referred to this committee. We have discussed the matter and presently
agree that more than slight adjustments are indicated. The increased
number of officers and the space available on the floor cause us to consider the deletion of the semi circle of chairs between the altar and the
east. At present the ceremony is merely the installation in a constituent
lodge on a larger scale. This, we believe, is a contributing factor to the
amall attendance. It should not be overlooked that the brethren might
desire to see some different ritualistic work when they come to an annual
communication.
Some unanticipated demands on our time have prevented the.crys~allization of our thoughts on the installation to the extent we would wish.
therefore we recommend that the incoming Grand Master be requested
to appoint a special committee on the written ceremonies to report at the
next annual communication.
ELLSWORTH MEYER, Chairman
WALTER H. E. voN KoNSKY

RoY C. BRYAN

LAYING OF CORNERSTONES
The foundation stone must be laid at the proper time; that is when
the foundation is ready for it.
·
Consult section 37 of the Ross Digest for the form of the request,
which should be sent to the Grand Master at least one month prior to
.the time at which the ceremony is desired.
The grand lodge may be opened in the nearest lodge hall, or ~e
ceremony may be performed without the opening of the grand lodge, in
the discretion of the Grand Master. .
The ceremony contemplates that a casket containing memorials ~f
the period will be placed in a cavity either in or under the stone. ThIS
ahould be a sealed copper box and must be prepared in advance of the
ceremony. A list of the contents of the box should be prepared and be
available to the Grand Secretary or the brother occupying that office

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

145

during the ceremony.
The principal address of the occasion will be delivered ·by the Grand
Master, the Grand Orator or some brother designated by the Grand
Master.
A ~latform must be provided, large enough to accommodate without
c~owdmg the officers of the grand lodge and special guests. Consideration should be given to the location of this platform in relation to the
stone, those who will assemble for the ceremony and that the officers
~ay easily and directly go from the platform to the stone without crossi~g. The .front row should contain not less than four and not more than
eight chairs, to be occupied by the officers who actually participate in the
cer~mony. This seating shall be: Grand Chaplain, Grand Secretary,
Jumor Grand Warden, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Master, Senior
Grand Warden, Grand Treasurer, Principal Architect. A small covered
table should be placed in the front of the chair to be occupied by the
Grand Master.
The cornerst~ne mus~ ?e supported by ropes and pulleys so that it
may be lowered mto position at the proper time. A workman or work~e~ should be assigned to lower the stone when the Grand Master
indicates. The stone should be lowered in three movements if possible.
A trowel and bucket containing sufficient mortar should be available to
the Grand Master at the stone.
Vocal or instrumental music adds greatly to the occasion and any
provision therefore must be made by the local brethren. If it is desired
~hat any local brother or public official speak or in anywise participate
ID the ceremony, such arrangements must be submitted to the Grand
Master, in w~iting, at I_east one we~k prior to the. date of the ceremony.
If the grand lodge is opened pnor to the laying of the cornerstone a
procession from the lodge hall to the site is permissible but is not recommended. If a procession is had the Grand Marshal shall form it in the
following order:
Escort of the day
Band
Grand Marshal
Master Masons in a column of twos
Grand Tiler (with sword)
Grand Stewards (with rods)
Grand Pursuivant and Grand Organist
A brother with the vessel of corn
Two brothers with the vessels of wine and oil
The Principal Architect with the working tools
Assistant Grand Treasurer and Assistant Grand Secretary
Grand Standard Bearer and Grand Bible Bearer
Grand Orator
Two Assistant Grand Lecturers
Two Assistant Grand Lecturers

146

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Two Assistant Grand Lecturers
Grand Lecturer and Grand Chaplain
Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary
Senior and Junior Grand Warden
Deputy Grand Master
Senior Grand Deacon, Grand Master, Junior Grand Deacon
(with rods)
Grand Sword Bearer (with sword)
The procession shall move to the site by whatever route may have
been designated. On arriving at the proper point the Grand Marshal
shall stop the procession and coming down the center open the lines to
the right and left. The Grand Sword Bearer shall precede the Grand
Master through the column, followed by the other officers and the remainder of the procession in inverse order. The Grand Sword Bearer
shall stop and face about to divide the column. Two entrances onto the
platform must be provided so that the officers will not cross the Grand
Master in going to their seats. The vessels of com, wine and oil and the
working tools shall be placed upon the table in front of the chair of the
Grand Master.

CEREMONY FOR THE LAYING OF A CORNERSTONE
Grand Master: Friends and brethren, it has been a custom among
the fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons, from time immemorial. to
assemble for the purpose of laying the foundation stones of certain
buildings, when requested so to do by those having authority. The
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California, having been invited to lay the cornerstone of this
building, we have here assembled and will now proceed with that pleas.
ing duty.
· In accordance with the teachings of our institution, it is our duty,
before entering upon any great or important undertaking, to invoke the
aid and blessing of God. We shall, therefore. reverently unite with our
Grand Chaplain in an address to the Throne of Grace.
The Grand Master calls up the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: Almighty and eternal God, who laid the foundations of the earth, we beseech Thee to look with favor on this our undertaking of laying the cornerstone of a material building. We look to Thee
for guidance and we pray that Thou wilt on all occasions give wisdoni
to guide us, strength to support us and the beauty of holiness to adorn
our labors and to render them acceptable in Thy sight. Grant Thy
blessing and watchful care to sustain and protect the workmen who are
here to be employed. So order their lives and their work that no discord
or confusion may disturb the harmony that should be theirs. And we
pray that when the structure shall be finished, it shall be devoted to all

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

147

that stands for good and the glory of Thy holy name. Also, we pray
that when our labors on earth are ~nded, we may be received in that
house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. Amen.
The Grand Master seats the brethren.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Treasurer, it has ever been the custom of the craft, upon occasions like the present, to deposit within a
cavity beneath the stone certain memorials of the period in which it was
erected, so that, if. in the lapse of ages the fury of the elements, the violence of man or the slow but certain ravages of time should lay ·b are its
foundations an enduring record may be found by succeeding generations to bear testimony to the untiring, unending industry of the Free
and Accepted Masons. Has such a deposit now been prepared?
Grand Treasurer: Most Worshipful, it has and the various articles
of which it is composed are safely enclosed within the casket now
before you.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Secretary, you will read the record
of contents of the casket.
The Grand Secretary reads the list of contents of the casket.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Treasurer, you will now deposit the
casket in the cavity beneath the stone, and may the Great Architect of
the Universe, in His wisdom, grant that ages upon ages shall pass away
ere it again be seen of men.
The Grand Treasurer then places the casket in the cavity, during
which time suitable music may be introduced.
Grand Master: Brother Deputy Grand Master, what is the jewel of
your office? ,
Deputy Grand Master: The square, Most Worshipful.
Grand Master: Then you will apply the jewel of your office to those
portions of the stone which should be square.
The Deputy Grand Master goes down to the stone, tests it, remains
·
and reports.
Deputy Grand Master: I have obeyed your order, Most Worshipful. and find that in that respect the craftsmen have done their duty.
The Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden and Junior Grand
Warden then descend to the stone and, if possible. form a square thus:
The Grand Master facing the stone, the Deputy Grand Master behind
the stone facing the Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden opposite
the stone on the right of the Grand Master and the Junior Grand
Warden opposite the stone on the left of the Grand Master.
The Grand Master then spreads the cement beneath the stone and
it is lowered into place.
Grand Master: Brother Senior Grand Warden, what is the jewel of
your office?
Senior Grand Warden: The level, Most Worshipful.
Grand Master: Then you will apply the jewel of your office to the

148

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

stone and see if it be laid in a manner creditable to our ancient craft.
Senior Grand Warden: I have obeyed your order, Most Worshipful
and find that the stone has been laid in a manner creditable to our ancient
craft.
Grand Master: Brother Junior Grand Warden, what is the jewel
of your office?
Junior Grand Warden: The plumb, Most WorshipfuL
Grand Master: Then you will apply the jewel of your office to the
stone and see if it has been properly adjusted.
Junior Grand Warden: I have obeyed your order, Most Worshipful and find that the stone has ·been properly adjusted.
The Grand Master then approaches the stone and gives it three
blows from his gavel on the words: well formed, true and trusty.
Grand Master: Our duty having been faithfully and skilfully performed, I declare this foundation stone to be well formed, true and trusty.
May the edifice which is to rest upon it ever be devoted to the spreading of useful knowledge, to the practice of unceasing and. unostentatious
charity and to the inculcation of fraternity and goodwill among men.
May it be completed by the craftsmen in peace, love and harmony; they
suffering no contention among themselves except that noble and fraternal one, as to who best can work and best agree.

from labor, may they constantly be blessed with that refreshment of
which this wine is emblematical.
The Junior Grand Warden pours the oil upon the stone.
Junior Grand Warden: May the blessings of heaven descend upon
this and all good works. May our beloved fraternity long exist to pour
forth the oil of joy upon the hearts of the widowed, the fatherless and
the distressed.
Grand Master: May the Great Architect of the Universe lend aid
to those who have conceived and thus far carried on this goodly enterprise. May He protect the workmen employed upon this building from
every accident and long preserve it for the beneficent uses which it is
destined to subserve. May He grant to us all an ever bountiful supply of
the corn of nourishment, the wine of refreshment and the oil of joy.
The grand officers then return to their seats, the Grand Master
seats them, but remains standing.
Grand Master: Brother Principal Architect, I now confide to you
these implements of operative Masonry. May this undertaking be speedily accomplished; may there be no envy, discord or confusion among the
workmen and may you perform the important duties with which you
have been charged, not only to the satisfaction of those who have entrusted you with their fulfillment, but in such manner as shall secure
the approbation of your own conscience and redound to the honor of our
ancient fraternity.
The Grand Master hands the implements to the Principal Architect.
The Grand.Master then introduces the Grand Orator or some other
brother designated by him to give the address of the occasion.
Appropriate music may be introduced here and if thought desirable
a brief word of appreciation.
The Grand Master calls up the brethren.
Grand Master: The Grand Chaplain will now give the benediction,
which will conclude the ceremony.
Grand Chaplain: · May the blessing of Almighty God, who made the
heaven and the earth and all who dwell therein, be with us all and remain with us, now and forevermore. Amen.
If grand lodge was opened, the brethren will informally return to
the lodge hall.

He steps back.
The laying of a cornerstone of a great edifice was the occasion of a
solemn rite in ancient times. To the pagan mind it appeared as an undertaking which would provoke the jealousy of the Diety unless a blood
sacrifice was offered. Archaeology has uncovered mute evidence of this
practice.
In the advance of civilization, man's changing concept of the Diety,
from a jealous and vengeful God to a God of love and mercy, has
changed the ceremony to one of joy and thanksgiving. The fraternity of
Free and Accepted Masons, looking ever to the goodness and compassion of the Great Architect of the Universe, lays cornerstones with an
offering of corn, wine and oil.
The Grand Marshal will take the three vessels and distribute them.
The Deputy Grand Master pours the corn upon the stone.
Deputy Grand Master: May the Great Architect of the Universe
strengthen and sustain the craftsmen while engaged in this important
work. May He ever bountifully vouchsafe the corn of nourishment to
all employed in honest and useful toil.
The Senior Grand Warden pours the wine upon the stone.
Senior Grand Warden: May the great giver of all good enable the
craftsmen in due time to complete this edifice and, during their intervals

INSTITUTING NEW LODGES
The Grand Master will designate the date for the ceremony, the
place in which it will be performed, a brother to give the prayer and a
brother to read the dispensation. The latter shall sit at the secretary's
.
table.

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The ceremony shall be open to Master Masons only and each brother
attending shall be vouched for at the door. All shall be properly clothed.
After the brethren are assembled, the Grand Master shall enter,
without escort and assume the east.

brethren were amenable to the general assembly of the craft held each
year and to that power alone.
With.the formation of a grand lodge in the city of London in 1717
a regulation was adopted declaring that the privilege of assembling as
Masons, theretofore possessed by all the brethren to be exercised at
their pleasure, should be vested in certain lodges convened in certain
places and that, with the exception of four old lodges then existing, no
lodge thereafter should be convened without a warrant from the Grand
Master with the consent of the Grand Lodge. From that time warrants
of constitution date their existence.
A warrant of constitution, or as we term it, a charter, in this jurisdiction emanates from the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California and no lodge may be constituted as such until it has received its charter. The Grand Master,
however, may issue a dispensation authorizing and empowering the
brethre~ therein named "to form and open a Lodge after the manner of
Free and Accepted Masons, and therein to admit to membership and
· make Freemasons, according to the ancient custom and not otherwise.''
While a lodge may not be constituted until it has received its charter
the phrase "in a just and legally constituted lodge" refers not only t~
a lodge working under a charter, but likewise to one working under a
dispensat~on from_ the Grand Master. So far as the regularity and legality of their work is concerned, lodges under dispensation and chartered
lodges have the same standing. There are, however, certain restrictions
imposed upon lodges under dispensation and they do not possess all the
powers of chartered lodges. A lodge under dispensation, for instance, is
not entitled to ·representat ion in the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, although it may
send delegates thereto who are admitted to seats and have a voice but
no vote: furthermore, it exists subject to the will and pleasure of the
Grand Master, who may at any time revoke the authority under which
it has theretofore worked.
Our constitution requires that new lodges must' work a time under
dispensation as a test of the ability of the officers and brethren to properly perform the duties incumbent upon them and exhibit satisfactory
evidence of Masonic capability.
The authority conferred by a dispensation continues only until the
first day of the month in which the next succeeding Annual Communica tion is held. At that time, the dispensation is returned to the Grand Secretary, together with the by-laws, book of records and returns and a
petition for a charter may be presented. 1£, after an examination of its
work and proceedings, it appears to the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California that the petition
should be granted, a charter is issued and a number assigned to the
lodge and within sixty days thereafter the lodge is duly constituted.
The petition may be refused without any further order being made and

150

CEREMO NY OF INSTITU TION
Grand Master: Brethren: We are gathered tonight for the purpose
of formally opening a new lodge in the city of..---··············• to be known
as............................Lodge, in order that Masons may lawfully assemble
therein.
Let us ever remember the passage wherein it is written: "Behold,
how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity.
"It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon
the be~rd, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments.
"As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that desc~nded upon the
mountains of Zion: for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even
life for evermore."
·
. Let us pray.
The Grand Master calls up the brethren.
A Designated Brother: 0 Thou Great Architect of the Universe, by
Thy grace and infinite mercy we are entering upon the performanc e of
a privilege devolving upon us as Masons in instituting this new lodge to
the service of Thee, our country and Freemasonr y. May it please Thee,
O God, so to set a guard over our thoughts, a watch at our lips and a
sentinel over our actions that no evil thought may have utterance and
no act may be committed other than will reflect credit upon our craft and
glorify Thee, our Supreme Grand Master.
Give to the officers and members of this lodge moral and physical
strength toward the fulfillment of their duties as men and Masons, both
within these sacred precincts and without, where men are judged by the
lives they lead.
We pray Thee to keep us and bless us, one with the other, that this
lodge and our great craft, whithersoever dispersed, may be worthy and
prosper as the years pass on toward eternity. Amen.
The Grand Master seats the brethren.
Grand Master: Prior to the year 1717. any number of brethren might
assemble at any time and at any place for the performanc e of work and
when so assembled were deemed authorized to receive brothers and
fellows and to practice the rites of Masonry. The Ancient Charges were
the only standard for the regulation of their conduct. Except in lodges
permanently established at particular places, the Master ~as electe~
for only the particular meeting over which he was to preside and his
authority terminated with the dissolution of that meeting. All the

151

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the lodge ceases to exist or a charter may be refused and the dispensation continued in force until the next Annual Communication.
Thus, whether the lodge to be opened this evening will eventually
receive a charter depends solely upon the manner in which the brethren
comprising it discharge the duties and responsibilities devolving upon
them. Not only is it required that they shall in all things conform to
certain rules and regulations, but it is likewise essential that they shall
observe the spirit no less than the letter of the law.
It is, I trust, understood that there must be no departure from the
esoteric work adopted by the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of California and taught by the
Grand Lecturer. This duty devolves upon the officers of the lodge and
a petition would be denied if, upon examination, it should appear that
the Master and Wardens were not competent to confer the degrees of
Masonry in accordance with the ritual.
There is, however, a further responsibility. which the brethren share
with the officers of the lodge. Upon each member of the lodge devolves
the duty of guarding its portals. The members of a lodge working under
a dispensation should be particularly careful that a searching inquiry
be made into the character and standing of those who present applications.
It too frequently happens that the organization of a new lodge is
hailed as an opportunity to obtain fellowship with us ·b y some to whom it
has theretofore been denied and by others who have feared to seek it.
They presume on the perhaps natural desire of the brethren of the new
lodge to increase the membership and it is unfortunately true that the
mistaken idea that numbers indicate success sometimes causes the
brethren of a new lodge to disregard the fundamentals upon which the
membership of the fraternity is recruited.
I hope I need not remind you that Masonry solicits no man for
membership: he must come to us of his own free will and accord, soliciting the favor which we confer upon those whom we accept as members.
A member of a Masonic lodge is not justified in giving his recommendation to one who has signified a desire for the degrees of Masonry
merely ·because he knows nothing detrimental to his character. More
than this is required. He should refuse to recommend any man for the
degrees of Masonry unless he has strong reasons to believe that the
applicant will ultimately reflect honor on our ancient institution.
The Masonic capabilities of a lodge working under dispensation will
be determined no less by the character of its members than by the character of its work. As the strength of a chain is tested by its weakest link,
so the standard of a Masonic lodge is set by its least desirable member.
However excellent might have been the work performed by the
officers and however exact had been the compliance with the rules and
regulations, a charter would not issue to a lodge which had shown itself
careless of its honor and reputation, so unmindful of its obligations as

to admit one not worthy and well qualified.
It is believed that those who have been instrumental in forming this
new lo~~e are not only conversant with their duties and responsibilities, .
but willu~g and eager .to faithfully discharge them. accordingly a
dispensation has been issued to them which will now be read by

152

Biothu-...........................................

The brother directed then reads the dispensation, and following it
the names of the Master and wardens. As the names of the Master and
wardens are read, they form a line west of the altar facing the east, with
the Master at the north of the line.
Grand Master: Brethren: You have been selected as officers to serve
this lodge while it. continues ~nder dispensation. It is assumed that you
are conversant with the duties of your respective stations. I deem it
proper, however, not merely for your benefit but as well for the benefit
of all here assembled, to call your attention to certain of those ancient
charges and r~gulations to which I have referred. In the ceremony provided for the installation of officers it is said they po~t out the duties
of the Master of a lodge, and before the Master can be installed his
as.sent to them must. be .freely given. With two exceptions, they likewise express the obbgat1ons every individual Mason assumes upon his
initiation into the fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons. They are
as follows:
I. You agree to be a good man and true, and strictly to obey the
moral law.
II. You agree to be a peaceable citizen, and cheerfully to conform
to the laws o~ the country in which you reside.
III. You promise not to be concerned in plots and conspiracies
against government, but patiently to submit to the decision of the
supreme Legislature.
IV. You agree to pay a proper respect to the civil magistrate, to
work diligently. live creditably and act honorably by all men.
V. You agree to hold in veneration the original rulers and patrons
of the order of Masonry and their regular successors, supreme and subordinate, according to their stations and to submit tO the awards and
resolutions of your brethren, when convened, in every case consistent
with the constitutions of the order.
VI. You agree to avoid private piques and quarrels and to guard
against intemperance and excess.
VII. You agree to be cautious in carriage and behavior, courteous
to your brethren and faithful to your lodge.
VIII. You promise to respect genuine ·brethren and to discountenance imposters and all dissenters from the original plan of Masonry.
IX. You agree to promote the general good of society, to cultivate
the social virtues and to propagate the knowledge of the art.
X. You promise to pay homage to the Grand Master for the time

.

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

being and to his officers when duly installed; and ~~ric~YJ0 conf~~~t ~~
every edict of the Grand Lodge or General Assem Y o
asons,
not subversive of the principles and groundwo rk of MasonI;:; d f men
XI. You admit that it is not in the power of any man or
Y0
to make innovations in the body of Masonry.
.
and ComXII. you promise a regular attendanc e on the comm1~tees
munications of the Grand Lodge, on receiving i:'roper no~1ce, and to . pay
attention to all the duties of Masonry on convenient occas10ns..
r
XIII you admit that no new lodge should be formed w1tho~t pe . . ~f the Grand Lodge· and that no countenan ce should be given .to
:~~s1~~egular lodge, or to ,any person clandestinely initiated . therein,
bein contrary to the ancient charges of the order.
.
gIV
X · You admit that no person1can1be regularly made~ Mason:n,
or admitted a member of, any regu ar od ge, w 1"thout previous notice,
and due inquiry into his character.
d
XV you agree that no visitors shall be received into yo.ur 1o . ge
without. due examinati on, and producing proper vouchers of their having
been initiated in a regular lodge.
. D
As a Master at his installation is asked, I now ask each of you. ~
here in the presence of your brethren, submit to these charges .an)
y~:mise ~o support these regulations? (Each answers in the afll.rmatwe.
ou will then approach the east, receive your jewels and repair to your
respective stations.
.
.
The officers proceed to the east, in a single column. receive thei!
jewels repair to their stations, put on their jewels anddthe w~rde~s ~t
down.'The Master is at the left of the Grand Master an remains s an ing until the close of the ceremony.
Grand Master: Worshipf ul Sir, the superinten dence and government of the brethren who are to compose this new lodge ~ave. been c~~h
•tted to our care. You should be mindful of the obligation s ~ 1c
~~volve u~n you as their head and of your ~~ponsibility for the. faithful
discharge of the important duties appertamm g to your appomtm~t.
R
her that the honor, reputation and usefulness of your lodge will
m::~:lly depend upon the skill and assiduity with .which you manag~
•t
ms and that the happiness of its members will be general~y pro
~~~~~ci: proportion to the watchful care with which you cherish the
genuine principles of our institution.
.
.
For a pattern of imitation, consider the great luminary of n~tu~e
which, rising in the east, regularly diffuses light and luster to all within
its circle. In like manner, 'it is your province to spread and ~omm.unicate
li ht and instruction to the brethren of your lodge. Forcibly 1~press
u~n them the dignity and high importance of Masonry ~d seriously
admonish them never to disgrace it. Charge them to practice out o.f ~fe
lodge those duties which they have been taught in it and by am1a e,
discreet and virtuous conduct to convince mankind of the goodness of

this institution; so that when a person is said to be a member of it, the
world may know that he is one to whom the burdened heart may pour out
its sorrows, one to whom distress may prefer its suit, one whose hand is
guided by justice and whose heart is expanded by benevolence. In short,
by a diligent observanc e of the by-laws of your lodge, the constitutio ns
of Masonry and above all, the Holy Scriptures , which are given as the
rule and guide of your faith, you will be enabled to acquit yourself with
the highest honors here and lay up a crown of rejoicing which shall continue when time shall be no more.
Brothers Senior and Junior Warden (gavel) : You are too well acquainted with the principles of Masonry to warrant any distrust that you
will be found wanting in the discharge of your respective duties. Suffice
it to say, that what you have seen praisewor thy in others, you should
carefully imitate and what in them may have appeared defective, you
should yourselve s avoid. You should be examples of discretion and propriety; for it is only by a due regard for our laws and regulation s as
shown in your own conduct, that you can expect obedience to them from
others. You are assiduous ly to assist the Master in the discharge of his
trust, diffusing light and imparting knowledg e to all whom he shall
place under your care.
In the absence of the Master you will succeed to higher duties, your
acquirements must therefore be such as will insure proper instruction to
the craft. From the spirit which you have hitherto evinced, I entertain no
doubt that your future conduct will be such as will merit the applause of
your brethren and the testimony of a good conscience.
Brethren oL..............Lodge (gavel): you are now being congregat ed
and formed intb a lodge of Free and Accepted Masons which, until the
next Annual Communication of the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California , is to be continued
in existence subject to the will and pleasure of the Grand Master. As I
have already indicated to you, whether the lodge now being formed will
receive a charter depends solely upon yourselves.
Such is the nature of our constitution that as some must, of necessity,
rule and teach, so must others, of course, learn to submit and obey.
Humility in both is an essential duty. The officers who have been chosen
to govern your lodge are sufficiently conversan t with the rules of propriety and the laws of the' institution to avoid exceeding the power with
which they are entrusted and you are of too generous disposition to envy
their preferment. I ·therefore trust that you will have but one aim, to
prove yourselves worthy of the confidence reposed in you, so that you
may in due time receive your charter.
The Grand Master calls up all brethren.
And now, by the authority in me vested by the Most Worshipf ul
Grand ·L odge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California ,
I proclaim the brethren named in the dispensati on congregat ed into,

154

V

155

157

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

authorized anti empowered to open and hold a lodge of Free and Accepted Masons to be known and designated as ................ Lodge, U. D.
The Lord bless thee and keep thee! The Lord make his face to shine
upon thee and be gracious unto thee! The Lord lift upon thee the light
of his countenance and give thee peace! Amen.
Worshipful Sir, the brethren are now authorized to assemble as a
lodge of Free and Accepted Masons. Upon their recommendation you
have been appointed to be their first Master. You are now empowered to
open your lodge. The emblem of your power is the gavel. In the hands
of the Master, it may be made the instrument of great good or of greater
evil. With it the Master governs his lodge and the welfare and prosperity
of this new lodge materially depend upon its judicious use. In your
hands, I am confident, it will be wielded for the best interests of your
brethren. You may now formally open this lodge in due and ancient form.
The Master puts on his hat, seats the brethren and remains standing.
He may express his appreciation to the Grand Master, but all other
remarks should be deferred.
The Master then fills the various places, appointing the Treasurer,
Secretary and other officers. As the Master announces each appointment,
the brother designated approac:.tes the east, receives his jewel and repairs
to his proper place; he remains standing until all have ~en appointed
and reached their respective places. The Master sounds his gavel to seat
these ofllcers. The gavel is the cue for the officers to put on their collars
and jewels. The Master then proceeds to open the lodge in the usual
form for the transaction of business, omitting the direction to the officers
to approach the east to receive their jewels.
After the lodge is opened the Master orders the S~c~etary to e?ter
upon his record book the minutes of the several preliminary meetings
held for the establishment of the lodge and the various official documents
connected therewith.
·
The uniform by-laws should then be adopted upon motion, and the
Master should order a copy to be forwarded to the Grand Secretary for
the approval of the Grand Master.
The lodge may then proceed with the transaction of any other business properly before it.
Felicitations are in order after the completion of business.
When concluded, the lodge must be closed in due form.

table should be placed midway between the altar and the east upon which
the emblem, vessels and candles may be placed.
The officers of the lodge about to be constituted shall be seated in the
first row of seats on the northeast of the lodge in rank, the Master nearest
the east. They wear the jewels and aprons of their offices. The members
of the lodge about to be constituted should be seated directly behind the
officers of the lodge.
If the. Grand Ma.ster fills all the stations and places, the grand
officers will form outside the lodge room and enter in the same manner
as they enter at an annual communication.
The Master of the lodge about to be constituted rises to address the
Grand Master, but does not approach the east.

156

CONSTITUTING NEWLY CHARTERED LODGES
Attendance shall be limited to Master Masons and to save time all
brethren should be vouched for as they enter the lodge room. All in
attendance must be properly clothed.
The lodge room should be prepared by placing chairs at the stations
and places which the Grand Master is filling for the occasion. A small

CEREMONY OF CONSTITUTION
The grand lodge will be opened by the Grand Master.
Master: Most Worshipful. upon the request of a n:umber of brethren,
the Grand Master of Masons in California was pleased to grant them a
letter of dispensation bearing date the ........ day of ................ , authorizing
them to form and open a lodge of Free and Accepted Masons in the city
(or town) of ......................... Since that time they have regularly assembled and have conducted the business of Masonry according to the best
of their abilities. Their proceedings have been examined by the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California and having been approved, a charter has been granted to
them. The brethren are now desirous that their lodge should be consecrated in acct>rdance with the ancient usages and customs of the craft.
In behalf of my brethren, I now respectfully request that you perform
that important duty. (He sits down.)
Grand Master: Brother Grand Secretary, you will read the charter.
Grand Ma!ter: Worshipful Master and Brethren, we accept with
pleasure the important and interesting duty which you have requested.
In doing so, permit us to express to you our hearty congratulations upon
this happy occasion. The establishment of a lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons in any community is an event of vital and far-reaching importance. It indicates a desire upon the part of its members to cultivate and·
practice the noble attributes of brotherly love, relief and truth. It means
the inculcation of all those sentiments which constitute a higher morality
and a nobler manhood. It contemplates the encouragement of all the virtue! which elevate and ennoble man; making better husbands, better
fathers, better sons and ·b rothers, better citizens, a better and more prosp~ous community. Trusting that you appreciate the import of this occasion, we shall cheerfully comply with your desire.
In accordance with the teachings of our institution, it is our duty,
~fore entering upon any great or importai:it undertaking, to invoke the
aid and blessing of God. We shall, therefore, reverently unite with our

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Grand Chaplain in an address to the Throne of Grace.
The Grand Master calls up the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: Supreme Grand Master, Great Architect and Ruler
of the Universe, we would reverently invoke Thy blessing at this time.
Grant us Thy aid in our present undertaki ng that all w~ may do shall be
done with an eye single to Thy service and to the good of our fraternity.
Bless the brethren of the lodge now about to be constituted, impress them
with a proper comprehension of their duty to Thee and to one another.
May this lodge become a means of lasting good in this community. may
its members be continually guided by the unerring counsels which Thou
hast given them in the great book of nature and revelation. Make them
faithful to the obligations which they have assumed. Bless and prosper
them in all their interests. Bless and prosper our beloved-order. Lengthen
its cords and strengthen its endeavors for ourselves and our fellowmen,
and to Thee we shall ascribe all honor and glory. Amen.
The Grand Master seats the brethren.
Grand Master: Brethren of ................ Lodge, No............., we shall
now proceed, according to ancient usage, to constitute you into a regular lodge. Brother Grand Marshal, you will present the brother who has
been designated in the charter to be the Master of this lodge.
The Grand Marshal conducts the Master to the east, facing the
Grand Master.
Grand Marshal: Most Worshipf ul, I take pleasure in presenting to
you Brother ...................., who has been designate d in the charter to be
the Master of this lodge.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Marshal you will severally present
the Senior and Junior Warden.
The Grand Marshal conducts the Senior Warden to the east, north
of the Master and facing the Grand Master.
Grand Marshal: Most Worshipf ul, I take pleasure in presenting to
you Brother ...................., who has been designated in th~ charter to be
the Senior Warden of this lodge.
The Grand Marshal conducts the Junior Warden to the east, south
of the Master and facing the Grand Master.
Grand Marshal: Most Worshipf ul, I take pleasure in presenting to
you Brother ...................., who has been designated in the charter to be
the Junior Warden of this lodge.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Marshal, you will prepare the emblem
and conduct the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and the Junior Grand
Warden, the Grand Lecturer and the Grand Chaplain to their respective
places around the emblem.
The Grand Marshal will light the candles and uncover the emblem.

He will then conduct the Grand Chaplain to the altar, the Grand
Lecturer northeast of the emblem, the Junior Grand Warden south.west
of the altar, the Senior Grand Warden northwest of the altar, the
Deputy Grand Master southeast of the emblem, and the Grand Master
to the center and east of the emblem: he then will return to his seat.
The Grand Master calls up the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: Great Architect of the Universe, Maker and Ruler
of All Worlds, deign from Thy celestial temple, from realms of light
and glo17, to bless us in all the purposes of our present assembly. We
h~mbl! invoke T~ee to. give us wisdom in all our doings, strength of
mmd in all our difficulties and the ·b eauty of harmony in all our communications. Permit us, 0 Thou Author of Light and Life, Great Source
of Love and Happiness , to solemnly consecrate this lodge to Thy honor
and glory. Amen.
The Grand Master will seat the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: And Jacob rose up early in the morning and took
the stone that he had put for his pillow and set it up for a pillar and
poured oil upon the top of it.
And thou shalt take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and
all that is therein and shall hallow it and all the vessels thereof and it
shall be holy. I will give you the rain of your land in his due season the
B~st rain an~ the .later rain, that thou mayest gather in thy corn and thy
wme and thine oil. The first fruit, also, of thy corn, of thy wine and of
thine oil, and the .6rst of the fleece of thy sheep,· shalt thou give him.
I have found David, my servant, with my holy oil have I anointed
·
•
him.
And wine that maketh glad the heart of man and oil to make his face
shine and bread which strengthen eth man's heart.
The Grand Master then pours the corn upon the emblem.
Grand Master: Honor be to God on high.
Grand Officers (about the emblem) : As it was in the ·beginning is
'
now and 'ever shall be. Amen.
emblem.
the
upon
wine
the
pours
The Grand Master
Grand Master: Glory be to God on high.
Grand Officers (about the emblem): As it was in the beginning, is
now and ever shall be. Amen.
The Grand Master pours the oil upon the, emblem.
Grand Master: We do solemnly consecrate this lodge to the honor
and glory of God.
Grand Officers (about the emblem): As it was in the beginning , is
now and ever shall be. Amen.
The Grand Master calls up the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: Grant, 0 Lord, our God that those who are now
about to be invested with the government of th\g lodge may be endued

158

159

161

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

with wisdom to instruct their brethren in all their duties. May brothuly
love, relief and truth always prevail among the members of this lodge,
may this bond of union continue to strengthen the lodges throughout the
world. Bless all our brethren whithersoever dispersed and grant speedy
relief to all who are oppressed or distressed. We commend to Thee the
members of this lodge and of this great fraternity. May they increase in
grace, in the knowledge of Thee and in love for one another. Finally,
may we finish our work here below to Thy satisfaction and have a
blessed transition from this earthly abode to Thy heavenly temple above,
there to enjoy light and life eternal. Amen.
The Grand Master stretches forth his hands over the emblem.
Grand Master: To the memory of the Holy Saints Joh.n we dedicate
this lodge. May all who gather here revere their character and imitate
.
their virtues.
Grand Officers (about the emblem): As it was in the beginning. is
now and ever shall be. Amen.
Grand Master: The grand officers will repair to thei1 stations; the
officers of the lodge will face the east.
Grand Master: In the name of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, I now constitute
and form you, my beloved brethren. into a regular lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons. Henceforth. you are empowered to meet as a regular
lodge, constituted in conformity with the rites of our order and in accord~
ance with the charges of our ancient and honorable fraternity. May the
Great Architect of the Universe prosper, direct and counsel you in all
your doings.
The Grand Master seats the brethren and the Master and warde113
of the lodge return to their seats in the northeast.
Grand Maiter: Brother Grand Marshal, you will cover the emblem
and make proclamation.
Grand Marshal: By order of the Grand Master, I do proclaim that
···-···············Lodge, No......... has been duly consecrated and dedicated.
Any additional program shall be under the direction of the Grand
Master, after which the grand lodge will be closed.

............, animated with a desire to promote the honor and the interest of
the craft. have erected and furnished this hall for their convenience and
accommodation. If it meets with your approval, they are desirous that
it be dedicated according to ancient form and usage.
Grand Master: Worshipful Master and brethren, the building has
our unqualified approval and it gives us great pleasure to comply with
the request of the brethren and to discharge the important and interesting duty which devolves upon us. I express to the brethren our hearty
appreciation of the enterprising spirit which has actuated them in the
erection of this structure. an edifice which is not only a credit to the
fraternity but. an ornament to this city.
In accordance with the teachings of our institution, it is our duty.
before entering upon any great or important undertaking, to invoke the
aid and blessing of God. We shall. therefore, unite with our Grand
Chaplain in an address to the Throne of Grace.
Th.e Grand Master calls up the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: Supreme Grand Master. source of light and love,
enable us to properly comprehend and practice the precepts of this sublime institution. Give us strength to overcome temptation, to subdue our
passions and to practice virtue. Fill our hearts with reverence for Thee
and with love for our fellow men. Make us faithful to our friends and
charitable to our opponents. Dispose our hearts to receive light and truth
from Thee. that our steps may be directed in the paths of virtue. Enable
us to prove to mankind by our actions that our lives are sincerely dedicated to Thee and to the relief and well-being of our fellow creatures.
And when our pilgrimage of life is ended receive us into that sublime and
eternal lodge where Thou dost forever preside. Amen.
The Grand Master seats the brethren.
Grand Master: We read in the holy writings that when all the work
that Solomon made for the house of the Lord was finished, he assembled
the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the chiefs of the
fathers of the children of Israel and then the house which was erected to
God was dedicated to His Holy Name.
We have gathered in imitation of the children of Israel to dedicate
this buil~ing to Freemasonry. virtue and universal benevolence, thus
perpetuating the custom which has come down to us from time immemorial.
Among the ancients, every temple, altar and statue was dedicated to
some divinity. The Hebrews extended this ceremony even to their private
houses and it was a custom in Israel to dedicate a new house to God with
prayer. praise and thanksgiving. This was done in order to secure the
divine presence and blessing, for it was believed that no pious or sensible
man would expect to dwell safely in a house which was not under the
immediate protection of God. A distinction, however, was made between
consecration and dedication; for sacred things were both consecrated and

160

CEREMONY FOR THE DEDICATION OF
A MASONIC HALL
This is a tiled ceremony. Attendance is limited to Master Masons.
The preparation of the hall and the other preliminaries shall be carried
out in the same manner as prescribed in the ceremony of constituting a
newly chartered lodge.
Grand lodge is opened.
Master: Most Worshipful, the brethren of .................... Lodge, No.

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dedicated, while profane things such as private dwelling houses, were
only dedicated: This distinction has been observed among other nations,
many of whom consecrated their churches to the worship of God, but
dedicated them to or placed them under the especial patronage of some
particular saint.
You will remember that a similar practice prevails in our institution
and that while we consecrate our lodges to the honor and glory of God,
we dedicate them to the memory of the Holy Saints John and the building itself is dedicated to Freemasonry, virtue and universal benevolence.
You may be interested in knowing that this is the form of dedication
of the first Masonic hall of which we have authentic information. The
ceremony of that first dedication, in 1774:, was in all its essentials identical with that which will be performed tonight. To those unmindful of
its symbolism, it will be nothing but an unmeaning form but in truth
and fact the ceremony is fraught with significance.
In devoting anything to religious purposes the anointing with oil
was considered by the ancient Hebrews as a necessary part of the ceremony. The tabernacle in the wilderness and all its holy vessels were, it
is said, by God's express command, anointed with oil. Masonic halls are
dedicated to the sacred purposes to which .they were built by strewing
corn, wine and oil upon the emblem.
The corn alone is carried in a golden pitcher, the wine and oil being
contained in silver vessels. It is to remind us that the first, as a necessity
and the staff of life, is of more importance and more worthy of honor
than the others, which are but comforts.
These should also remind of our duty to share our bread with the
hungry, cheer the sorrowful and pour the healing oil of consolation into
the wounds which sickness has made in the bodies or affliction has rent
in the hearts of our fellow men.
The Grand Master is seated.
Principal Architect: Most Worshipful, having to the best of my
ability accomplished the task assigned me, I now beg to return to you
the implements committed to my care when the cornerstone of this structure was laid, humbly hoping that the result will be crowned with approbation.
Grand Master: You and those who worked upon this building are
to be commended for having kept in mind the purposes for which it is to
be used and for having erected an edifice which is an ornament to this
city. The skill and ability displayed receive our entire approbation and
it is our hope that this edifice may continue as a lasting monument to the
genius of our institution.
Brother Grand Marshal, you will uncover the emblem and conduct
the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and the Junior Grand Warden,
the Grand Lecturer and the Grand Chaplain to their proper places
around the emblem.

The Grand Marshal. lights the candles, uncovers the emblem and
then conducts the officers to their proper places in the same manner as
prescribed in the ceremony of constituting a newly chattered lodge.
The Grand Master calls up the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: Great Architect of the Universe, maker and ruler
of all the world, deign from Thy celestial temple, from realms of light
and glory, to bless us in all the purposes of our present assembly. We
humbly implore Thee to give us at this, and at all times, wisdom in all our
doings, strength of mind in all our difficulties and the beauty of harmony
in all our undertakings. Permit us to dedicate this hall to Freemasonry,
virtue and universal 'benevolence and to consecrate our lives to Thy
service. Amen.
Grand Master: Glory be to God on high, on earth peace, goodwill
to men.
The Grand Master seats the brethren.
Grand Chaplain: And Solomon determined to build a house for the
name of the Lord and a house for His kingdom.
And Solomon told out three-score and ten thousand men to bear burdens and four-score thousands to hew in the mountains and three thousand and three hundred to oversee them.
And Solomon sent to Hiram, the King of Tyre, saying: as Thou
didst deal with David, my father, and didst send him cedars to build him
a house to dwell therein, even so deal with me.
Behold, I build a house to the name of the Lord, my God, to dedicate
it to Him and to bum before Him sweet incense.
Then Solomon began to build the house of the Lord at Jerusalem on
Mount Moriah, where the Lord appeared unto David his father, in the
place that David prepared in the threshing floor of Ornan the J ebusite.
And he began to build in the second day of the second month, in the
fourth year of his reign. Also he made before the house two pillars of
thirty and five cubits high and the chapiter that was on the top of each
of them was five cubits.
And he reared up the pillars before the temple, one on the right hand
and the other on the left and called the name of that on the right hand,
Jachin, and the name of that on the left, Boaz.
Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the Lord was
finished.
Deputy Grand Master: Most Worshipful, com, the emblem of
nourishment, has been used from time immemorial in the dedication of
Masonic halls. I, therefore, present to you the vessel of corn to be employed by you according to ancient usage.
The Grand Master pours the com upon the emblem.
Grand Master: In the name of the great Jehovah, to whom be all
honor and glory, I do solemnly dedicate this hall to Freemasonry.

163

164

165

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Grand Officers (around the emblem) : As it was in the beginning, is
now and ever shall be. Amen.
Grand Chaplain: Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and
all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel.
And he stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the
congregation of Israel and spread forth his hands and said:
Now then, 0 Lord God of Israel, let Thy word be verified, which
Thou hast spoken unto Thy servant David.
Have respect therefore to the prayer of Thy servant and to his supplication, 0 Lord, my God, to hearken unto the cry and the prayer which
Thy servant prayeth before Thee:
That Thine eyes may be open upon this house day and night, upon
the place whereof Thou hast said that Thou wouldest put Thy name
there; to hearken unto the prayer which Thy servant prayeth toward
this place.
Hearken therefore unto the supplication of Thy servant and of Thy
people Israel, which they shall make toward this place, hear Thou from
Thy dwelling place, even from heaven and when Thou nearest, forgive.
The Senior Grand Warden advances and presents the vessel of wine.
Senior Grand Warden: Most Worshipful, wine, the emblem of refreshment, having been used by our ancient brethren in the ceremonies ·
of dedication and consecration, I present to you this vessel of wine to be
used by you according to ancient Masonic form.
The Grand Master pours the wine upon the emblem.

Grand Master: In the name of the whole fraternity, I do s.olemnly
dedicate this hall to universal benevolence.
Grand Officers (around the emblem) : As it was in the beginning, is
now and ever shall be. Amen.
·
Grand Chaplain: And may the Lord, the Giver of every good and
perfect gift, bless the brethren here assembled in all their lawful undertakings and grant to every one of them, in needful supply, the corn of
nourishment, the wine of refreshment and the oil of joy. Amen.
Grand Master: The officers will return to their stations and places.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Marshal: You will cover the emblem
and make proclamation.
The Grand Marshal covers the emblem, extinguishe& the candles and
then goes to the altar to make his proclamation.
Grand Marshal: By order of the Grand Master, I do now proclaim
the hall in which we are assembled to be dedicated in due and ancient
f onn.
.

Grand Master: In the name of the Holy Saints John, I do solemly
dedicate this hall to virtue.
Grand Officers (around the emblem): As it was in the beginning, is
now and ever shall be. Amen.
·
Grand Chaplain: Now when Solomon had made an end of praying,
the fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the
sacrifices: and the glory of the Lord filled the house.
And the priests could not enter unto the house of the Lord, because
the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord's house.
And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down and
the glory of the Lord upon the house, they bowed themselves with their
faces to the ground upon the pavement and worshipped and praised the
Lord saying: For He is good, for His mercy endureth forever.

The Junior Grand .Warden advances and presents the vessel of oil.
Junior Grand Warden: Most Worshipful, I present to you, to be
used according to ancient custom, this vessel of oil, an emblem of that joy
which should animate every bosom on the completion of any important
undertaking.
The Grand Master pours the oil upon the emblem.

The Grand Master seats the officers.
Address by the. Grand Master, or some brother appointed by him for
that purpose.
The Grand lodge is closed.

PRESENTATION OF FIFTY-YEAR BUTTON
Over two hundred and fifty veteran buttons are presented each
year. It is therefore impractical for the Grand Master or other principal
officers of the grand lodge to make the presentations. However, the importance of the occasion to the recipient should cause care to be exercised in selecting the officer who is to make the presentation and in the
planning of the program. If, because of the infirmities of age or otherwise,
the recipient cannot attend a lodge meeting, the presentation may be
made at his home in the presence of his family and friends.
If the presentation is made at a stated or special meeting of the lodge
one or two selections of music will add greatly to the occasion.
At an appropriate junction the officer who is to make the presentation (designated herein as the Master) shall begin as follows:
Master: The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California has noted with gratification that
Brother ........................ has been a member of a regular lodge of Masons
for ............ years and at this time we shall have the pleasure and privilege
of bestowing upon him a visible token of its fraternal love and appreciation. Brother .................... was initiated an Entered Apprentice Mason
on ................ in .................... Lodge, No ......... , passed to the degree of
Fellowcraft on ............ and raised to the sublime degree of Master
Mason on ............. He is now a member of ................ Lodge, No..............

167

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(Here may be added such offices as the brother may have held during his masonic life.)

Constitution of a Newly Chartered Lodge.
Dedication of a Masonic Hall.
Presentation of a Fifty-year Button.
Optional Opening for a Special Communication of Grand
Lodge (the latter was not included in the printed report but
was presented verbally).
The recommendation that the Special Committee be continued for the
purpose of revising the Grand Lodge Installation Ceremony was referred
to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Although a portion of the above report was not received until the
afternoon session, the entire action is consolidated above for convenience
of reference.

166

In·accordance with the teachings of our institution let us first invoke
the blessing of God.

The Master calls up the brethren.
Chaplain: Supreme Grand Master, Ruler of Heaven and Earth we
thank Thee for the many years which Thou hast granted to our brother.
We thank Thee for life, health and strength and daily provisions of Thy
providence. Grant to our brother many additional years of life. Be ever
near to him, sustain and comfort him. Lead him in Thy ways that he may
have happiness and friendship all the days of his life. Amen.
Master: Brother Marshal, you will present Brother .................... to
the east.
The Marshal goes to the brother and escorts him to an appropriate

At 12:15 Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 P.M.

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, October 9, 19~51

point between the altar and the east.
The Master descends to the floor, standing before th,e recipient.
Master: Brother ...................., you have been a member of a regular
lodge of Master Masons for more tha.n half a century and by direction
of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of California I am privileged to present to you this visible
token of the brotherly love and appreciation of your brethren. It is a
badge of merit and distinction. It will point you out to your brethren
as one who has long been devoted to the ideals of this institution.
(Master puts the button in the coat lapel and continues while doing so.)
This button is made from the pure gold from the hills of California. It
is emblematical of that purity of life and conduct which should be displayed by Masons whithersoever dispersed. Likewise it is symbolical of
the reward of those who seek after truth.
Brother Marshal. you will escort our brother to a seat in the east.
The Master returns to his station and calls up the brethren.
Master: Brethren, you will, under the direction of the Marshal. salute
our brother by the battery of three times three.
After which the Master seats the brethren and if so advised may in:

troduce the recipient for such remarks as he may desire to make.
If desirable, the lodge may be called to refreshment to permit the
members to personally greet the brother.

By separate motions, the revised ceremony was adopted for each of
the following:
Laying of a Cornerstone.
Institution of a New Lodge.

Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 P.M .• the Grand Master presiding.

REPoRT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
EDUCATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There is a new trend in Masonic activities and it is a trend toward
increased educatiOn. Just as doctors have their post-graduate courses
and lawyers their program of continuing education of the Bar, so the
Fraternity is recognizing and accepting the responsibility for a continuing education of its members.
To think that three short lessons in Masonry, representing the three
degrees, is the end of all instruction in the meaning, history and application of the valuable lessons contained therein and terminates all further
responsibility of the Lodge is becoming an out-moded notion.
Committees to advance Masonic Education have been appointed
in the past in this jurisdiction. They struggled for a time, found indifferent support and faded out. The same thing might happen to this Committee except that somewhere along the years the tide has turned and
there is now a new interest in Masonic subjects.
Nor is this interest limited to California. Your Committee has surveyed the situation elsewhere and believes the following examples
should be reported:
1. In France the degrees are given less rapidly. The minimum time
for advancing from one degree to another is eight months and is more
often one or two years. The candidate is required to study symbolism
and assimilate the teachings of each degree.

168

169

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2. In New Zealand an excellent program of Masonic Education is
carried on. The Grand Lodge lecturers devote their time to delivering
lectures on the ethics, symbolism and history of Masonry. In addition,
a system of Research Lodges is provided whose members carry on research, hold discussions and send out speakers and papers to outlying
Lodges upon request. Such programs have proven a valuable supple·
ment to local Lodge programs.

made in California by the constituent Lodges or volunteer groups of
Masons to further the cause of education. There are many such in the
state. To take an example, Hollywood Lodge No. 355 has been conducting a round-table discussion on a monthly basis for many ·years.
The San Francisco Masonic Research group has been active for some
fifteen years. I know of individual Lodges which conduct regular programs on Masonic Law, history and symbolism.

3. In our own country, as early as I 841, the Grand Master of
Ohio, in his annual message. advised the subordinate Lodges to acquire
libraries and introduce into their meetings lectures on the various arts
and sciences connected with the Fraternity. In 1843 the Grand Jurisdiction of Kentucky adopted legislation to promote Masonic Education.

All concede that the newly raised Mason needs instruction in symbolism and history to supplement the excellent instruction booklets now
supplied each candidate in this jurisdiction. For the experienced Mason
more intriguing subjects are Masonic Law, the relationship of Masonry
to Communism, Catholicism, Religion and Politics, Negro Masonry,
Investigations, Masonic Offenses, and a myriad of others.

4. The Grand Jurisdiction of Iowa has an extremely active and
energetic educational program. Since I am a resident of Long Beach,
which is sometimes referred to as the capitol of Iowa, I acknowledge
admiration for Iowa's work but as a thoroughly indoctrinated Californian I predict that California can put on a bigger and bet(er program.

Since our last Annual Communication Iowa sponsored the midwest
conference on Masonic Education. Ten midwest and two eastern jurisdictions were represented at the conference and discussed all phases
of educational work. Iowa makes use of one Lodge of Research, a
splendid Grand Lodge library and an active Grand Lodge Committee
on Masonic Education with an office director, a field worker and a
stenographer.
· 5. The most popular method of carrying on the work of Masonic
Education in the United States is by means of Research Lodges. Seven
Grand Jurisdictions have authorized this form of organization. They
are: New York, which has had a Research Lodge since 1931; Connecticut; Iowa; Missouri, which claims the largest Research Lodge in the
world; Oregon; Washington, and. lastly. Virginia, with the newest
Lodge of Research, chartered this year. These organizations hold
charters from their Grand Jurisdictions which, ordinarily, prohibit the
conferring of degrees and limit their activities to research and discussion, the preparation of papers on Masonic subjects and the furnishing
of speakers to constituent Lodges who desire to have an address on,
or discussion of, some interesting Masonic subject as part of their own
programs.
You can see from the foregoing report that the desirability of continuing Masonic Education is generally conceded among the various
Grand Jurisdictions. It is more a question of how to accomplish the
desired end and the work of this Committee has therefore been concentrated on methods of education.
Your Committee has also investigated the present efforts now being

I dare say there is not one Master or Warden present at this communication who has not felt the need for an address or discussion of an
educational nature as a substitute for the usual degree night or a supplement to a stated meeting. A variation from the usual routine always
stimulates attendance and enriches the Masonic experience of the
members..
There are many Lodges which would welcome speeches or discussions on these subjects. There are many eminent Masons among us
well qualified to deliver speeches or lead discussions. Unfortunately,
there is no machinery to bring the two together. Your present Committee has had many calls along this line but it is obviously beyond the
capacity of any committee to supply the needs of a jurisdiction as large
in membership and as vast in area as ours. Moreover, there are drawbacks on entrusting this important work to a committee which necessarily
varies from time to time in membership, capacity and energy. Distances
in California are too great to gain the full advantage of a single central
library location as is done in Iowa.
Of the several plans considered and compared, your Committee feels
a modification of the Oregon plan is best adapted to California. This
involves the creation of a minimum of two Lodges of Research, one for
the north and one for the south, with the probability that others will be
added later. The function of these Lodges would be, not to confer degrees but to accumulate, preserve and disseminate to the constituent
Lodges Masonic information of every nature. A panel of speakers can
be built up. well qualified and willing to deliver speeches or lead discussions of an educational nature when requested to do so by other
Lodges. The advantages of the plan are these:
1. Continuity of program and the advantages of cumulative
experience since the Research Lodge would be permanent.

170

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

2. Grand Lodge is relieved of primary responsibility for what
might otherwise become a cumbersome and expensive burden.
3. Geographical distribution of the Research Lodges would
act as a magnet to the brilliant speakers and studious minds of the
Fraternity with the resulting benefit of interchange of ideas and a
directed program.
4. Proximity to Lodges would also cut travel time and inconvenience for those brethren devoting themselves to the work.
5. No expensive staff would be needed under the Research
Lodge plan.
6. A more flexible plan could be followed since each Research
Lodge can meet the peculiar needs of its own section of the state.
It is true that enabling legislation to provide for the orderly creation
and operation of Research Lodges will have to be adopted at this communication if the plan is to be put into effect. A draft of proposed legislation is attached to this report marked "Exhibit A." I will not read it
at this time but merely state that the Committee thinks f.t is sufficient
·
for the purpose.
In preparing this report I acknowledge the able assistance of ViceChairman Triggs and other members of the Committee, the inspiring
leadership of our Grand Master, the encouragement of other Grand
Officers and Past Grand Masters, all of whom are fully awake to the
desirability of Masonic Education and cognizant of the need of a workable plan to bring it to fruition.
The Grand Master has traveled extensively this year and has often
addressed the brethren on the subject of this report. Invariably he has
received an enthusiastic response. Possible points of friction have been
eliminated when the true purposes of the educational program are explained. It is not a substitute for ritualistic perfection. Instruction in the
ritual must go on as before. It is not a substitute for the so-called higher
degrees. Masonic Education is concerned with a more perfect appreciation and application of the three degrees of Blue Lodge Masonry.
Last year we closed the first hundred years of Masonry in California.
This year we have commenced another century, and I cannot think of a
more constructive, forward-looking theme on which we enter the new
century than that announced in the sincere and inspirational Annual
Message of Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, who is deeply interested
in Masonic Education. If we can initiate a well-planned program of
education at this Communication it will mark 1951 as one of the most
important in the history of the Grand Lodge.
In order to carry out the high aims on which I have reported your
Committee recommends:
1. That the Grand Lodge adopt a policy of encouraging Masonic
Education .through Research Lodges.

2. That legislation providing for the creation and operation of Research Lodges be adopted in the form submitted with this report.

171

Respectfully submitted,

J. EVERETT HOUSER
RALPH E. MOTT
EDWARD H. RowrNs
Ro BERT F. SHIPPEE
ARTHUR H. TRIGGS
DONALD MORK
EXHIBIT A
AMENDMENT TO CONSTITUTION

Add to Section 20:
· Any other provision of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the Grand Master may warrant Lodges for Masonic
research as may be prescribed by the Regulations of the Grand
Lodge.
AMENDMENT TO REGULATIONS

Add to Section 34:
1st. To grant dispensations for the formation of new Lodges,
and to warrant Lodges for Masonic Research, under the regulations hereinafter prescribed.
PART IIA

Relative to Lodges of Masonic Research
ARTICLE I
Organization and Powers

Warranting Lodges of Masonic Research
Sec.266a
Upon the application of ten or more Master Masons in good standing in a Lodge or Lodges chartered or dispensated in this jurisdiction,
the Grand Master may warrant Lodges of Masonic Research, and shall
report his action to the Grand Lodge.
Form of Warrant
Sec.266b
The Grand Master of Masons in the State of California:
To whom it may concern, Greeting:
Be it known that by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and Ordinances of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, I have this
day warranted and do hereby warrant a Lodge of Masonic Re~
search to meet in the City oL .............................., or elswhere within
the jurisdiction of said Grand Lodge, for the purposes and objects
provided in Part Ila of the Ordinances of the Grand Lodge of Cali~
fornia as now constituted or as hereafter may be amended. and
subject to the rights, privileges and limitations therein set forth.
Given under my hand and the seal of our Grand Lodge afore~
said this........day 0£... .............................A. L. 19........, A. D. 19.........
Grand Master
(SEAL)
Attest:---···-·······-············-·······························-·-·····Grand Secretary

Organization of Lodge of Research
Sec.266c
Upon the receipt of the warrant duly issued by the Grand Master,
the Master Masons applying therefor shall meet and shall' organize said
Lodge of Masonic Research by electing from among its members a
Master, Senior Warden, Junior Warden, Secretary and Treasurer.
Rights, Privileges and Limitations
Sec. 266d
Each Lodge of Masonic Research shall conduct research on Masonic
subjects, hold discussions, gather, preserve and disseminate Masonic
information of interest to the Craft, maintain a library. supply papers or
speakers at the request of chartered or dispensated Lodges when con~
venient, to correspond with other Lodges of Masonic Research, whether
in this Jurisdiction or outside thereof, and to conduct a program of
Masonic education for the Craft, subject to all of the provisions of these
Ordinances except:
I. Said Lodge shall not be dispensated or chartered, and bear no
name or number.
2. Membership therein shall be limited to Master Masons in good
standing in a Lodge in this jurisdiction and shall cease if a
member shall lose such status, and may be voluntarily severed at
any time by resignation.
3. No demand for demit shall be received, nor shall a demit be
issued by such Lodge.
4. Membership therein shall not 'be considered dual within the
meaning of Section 163 of the Ordinances.
5. It shall have no authority to receive petitions for the degrees of
Masonry, or to confer said degrees, nor shall it be liable for the
re~ief of its members, their widows or orphans.
6. It shall not be entitled to representation or vote in Grand Lodge,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

173

and it shall be exempt from the contributions levied upon Lodges
by the provisions of Section 99 of these Ordinances.
7. It shall be subject to such inspection as may ·be prescribed by
the Grand Master.
8. It shall file a written report of its activities with the Grand
Master not later than the first day of September in each year.
9. It may hold its meetings without dispensation at any time and
place within the jurisdiction of Grand Lodge and after such
notice as it shall prescribe.
I 0. It may adopt by-laws. which need not conform to Section 133
of the Ordinances, and may amend and alter the same in such
manner as such by~laws may prescribe. A copy of any such
by-laws adopted and any amendments thereto or alterations
thei:eof shall be transmitted promptly to the Grand Master for
his approval.

Revocation of Warrant
Sec. 266e
Any warrant issued for the formation of a Lodge of Masonic Research may be revoked for good cause by the Grand Master, who shall
report such revocation and-cause therefor at the next annual communi~
cation of Grand Lodge for its consideration.
ARTICLE II

Funds and Property
Restrictions
Sec. 266f
No Lodge formed under the provisions of this part shall receiY~ cir
hold title to any real property. and shall expend its funds only for the
purposes for which it was organized. It shall not divide its funds with
its members, and in the event of its dissolution, its remaining funds shall
be disposed of as required by the Grand Master.
ARTICLE III

Membership
How Acquired
Sec.266g
One may acquire membership in a Lodge of Masonic Research by
applying therefor to such Lodge, setting forth in such application his
name and post office address. the name and number of the chartered or
dispensated Lodge of which he is a member, and the fact that he is a

174

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Master Mason in good standing in such Lodge, that he is interested in
Masonic research and desires to contribute his time and effort thereto,
and that he will comply with all reasonable requirements of him in connection with the program of said Lodge. No fee shall be required as a
condition for acquiring membership in such Lodge. Said application shall
be submitted at a meeting of such Lodge, and the acceptance thereof by
unanimous vote shall constitute the applicant a member of such Lodge.

How Terminated
Sec. 266h
Membership in such Lodge may be terminated:
1st. By revocation of the warrant of such Lodge.
2nd. By resignation, or by failure to pay dues.
3rd. By death or by dropping from membership.
4th. By failure to remain in good standing in his chartered ~r dispensated Lodge, or by demitting therefrom to a Lodge 1n another jurisdiction, or by suspension or expulsion therefrom.

Dropping from Membership.
Sec. 266i
Any member who shall fail or refuse to comply with any reasonable
requirement of the Lodge with respect to the furtherance of its purposes
or program, or whose continued membership in such Lodge shall be considered unnecessary, may be dropped from membership in such Lodge
by unanimous vote, other than the vote of such member.
ARTICLE IV

Of/leers
El~c:tion

Sec. 266j
The officers of such Lodge shall be elected annually at the expiration of one year after its organization, and annually thereafter, or as
may be prescribed in its by-laws. Vacancies in offices shall be filled by
appointment by the Master, unless such vacancy shall occur in the office
of Master, in which event the Senior Warden shall become Master. All
members shall be entitled to vote at an election, and every voter shall
be eligible to any office in the Lodge.

Appointive Of/leers
Sec. 266k
Such appointive officers as the by-laws of each ~dge may designate,
shall be appointed in such manner as they may direct.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

175

Ppwers and Duties of Master
Sec. 266L
The Master shall have power to congregate his Lodge whenever he
shall deem it proper; to discharge all the executive functions of his
Lod~e: and to keep the activities and program of his Lodge within the
prov1s1on~ of the Const~tution and Regulations of the Grand Lodge. It
shall be his d~ty to preside at all meetings of his Lodge; to make assignments of sub1ects for research and to superintend and supervise the
s~me; to act as mo~erator at any discussion held by his Lodge; to pro.v1d~ for th~ gathering, preserving and disseminating of Masonic information of interest to the Craft; to provide for the supplying of papers
or speakers to chartered or dispensated Lodges upon convenient occasions: an~ to formulate a program whereby the Lodge may make material
contribution to Masonic education, information and research.
Duties of Wardens
Sec.266m
It shall be the duty of the Wardens to assist the Master in the performance of his duties, and in his absence to exercise his powers and
duties in succession.

Duties of Treasurer
Sec.266n
The duties of the Treasurer shall be as prescribed in Section 201 of
these Ordinances.

Duties of Secretary
Sec. 266o •
The duties of the Secretary shall be as prescribed in paragraphs 1st,
2nd, 3rd, 4th. 5th and 11th of Section 202 of these Ordinances, and of
Section 206 hereof.

Duties of Appointive Of/leers
Sec.266p
The appointed officers shall perform s~ch duties as may be required
.
by the by-laws or as directed by the Master.
ARTICLE V

Dues
Amount of Dues and Receipt Therefor
Sec.266q
The amount of dues from members and the method of payment
thereof shall be as fixed by the by-laws, and the Secretary shall issue his
receipt therefor to the member upon the payment of his dues. The provisions of Section 252 of these Ordinances shall not apply to Lodges
warranted as hereinbefore provided.

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Non-Payment of Dues
Sec. 266r
Membership shall be terminated by failure of a member to pay dues
within thirty days after notice by the Secretary to such member that his
dues are unpaid and that his membership in such Lodge will be terminated if such dues shall remain unpaid for a period of thirty days after
the date of such notice. The Lodge, by majority vote, may remit the dues
::>f any member.
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
·
Jurisprudence.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO STUDY
INVESTMENTS FOR CONSTITUENT LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Special Committee appointed to study "The Prudellt Man Rule"
as an· investment policy for Grand Lodge made its report in 1950, which
was adopted.
As to constituent lodges, the appointment of a committee for further
extensive study was suggested. Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen,
Grand Master, thereupon appointed the same committee which had reported in 1950, consisting of:
LEO E. SIEVERT, Chairman
CHARLES A. ADAMS
LESLIE E. ALT
VINCENT P . McMuRoo
PAUL A. PFLUEGER

In order to carry out its responsibility, it was necessary for the Committee to request certain financial data from each of the 607 lodges.
With his usual generous help the Grand Secretary sent several communications. which resulted in replies from 522 lodges, or 86%; representing 174,189 members, or 88Yz % of the membership. We thank the
lodges for their splendid cooperation.
These replies disclosed the following combined financial condition
of the reporting lodges :
1 ) Cash-savings ·································-·$ 757,725
-commercial .............................. 1,643,190
· Total Cash ..........................$ 2,400,915-( 17Yz% )

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

2) Governments, State & Municipal
Bonds (mostly ·Governments) ............
Other Bonds ........................................

177

4,862,500
240,100

Total Bonds ......................:.$ 5,102,600-(37% )
3 ) Real Estate & Building & Loan
Certificates (mainly Building &
Loan Certificates) ·······-·············..···--·$ 510,400-(3.7% )
4) Life Membership Funds650,750
U. S. Governments ..............................
46,950
Cash ......................................................
Total Life Membership ......$
5) Corporate Stocks-:Common ........•.. _.$
-Preferred ............

697,700-(5.05% )
279,900
127,900

Total Corporate Stocks ......$ 407,800-( 2.95 % )
6) Temple Securities ................................$ 4,656,600-( 33.8 % )
Total Reporting ..................$13,776,015-( 100% )
The membership reporting totaled ......................................88Yz %
The membership not reporting totaled .......~........:..............J 1Yz%
Estimating the same percentages in the respective categories for
those not reporting, which we think a fair assumption, we arrive at the
following totals representing all lodges in this jurisdiction:
1) Total Cash ...................:.................~....$ 2,719,000-( 17Yz% )
2) Total Bonds .........:.............................. 5,765,000-( 37% )
3) Total Real Estate & Building &
576,000-( 3.7%)
Loan Certificates ................................
788,000-(5.05% )
4) Total Life Membership Funds ..........
461.000-(2.95% )
5) Total Corporate Stocks ......................
6) Total Temple Securities .................... 5,260.000-(33.8% )
Total Assets ······················~·$ 1 5, 569,000-( 100% )
We next come to our analysis of these figures. First. we should
deduct the $5,260,000 of Temple securities, which represent fixed investments in Masonic Temples throughout the state. This leaves $10.309,000 in liquid assets, classified as follows :
1) Total cash ..~·-···························-··········$ 2,719,000-(26.38% )
2) Total Bonds ........................................ 5,765,000-( 55.92% )
3 ) Total Real Esta te & Building &
576,000-( 5.59% )
Loan Certificates ................................
788,000-(7.64 % )
4) Total Life Membership Funds ..........
461,000-( 4.47% )
5) Total Corporate Stocks ......................
$10,309,000-( 100% ) .

178

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

There is a wide difference in the net worth of the respective lodges.
At the present time lodges can own cash, hank accounts. government. state and municipal bonds and investments which are legal for
California savings hanks, and Temple securities which must first he
approved by a Grand Lodge Committee set up for that purpose. Life
Membership Funds cannot he invested in Temple securities.
There is a very urgent and definite demand upon the part of many
lodges for a broader investment program. Therefore, the Committee
definitely felt that a sound investment policy should apply to every lodge.
small or large. Each lodge has its own individual problem and its own
philosophy as to investments. Each lodge should he able to make its own
decision within any investment policy set up by Grand Lodge. Neither
Grand Lodge. as such. nor any Committee thereof. should make investments for or on behalf of any lodge.
Whether or not to broaden its investments would he within the determina.tion of each lodge, as it visualizes its own problems. The rule we
are proposing would be permissive-it would not he compulsory.
Therefore. as to constituent lodges, the Prudent Man Rule investment policy which we recommend for the investment of liquid funds,
exclusive of Temple property or Temple securities, is as follows:
Section 1 ) At least 10% of the funds available for investment must
be in:
A) Cash aad/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States or those for the payment of
which the faith of the United States is pledged.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions. provided they were issued pursuant to law and that the faith and
credit of such municipal corporation or district is pledged for their payment.
D) Such other securities as are legal investments for California savings hanks.
·
Section 2) Up to 20% may he invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will he fully listed
and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
B) Preferred stocks. which are or will be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission
as a National Securities Exchange.
No such investments, however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred
to in this section exceeding twenty percent ( 20% ) of the total market
value of all the cash. hank accounts and securities held.
Section 3) Up to forty percent ( 10% ) may he invested in:
A) Common stocks, which must he fully listed and registered on an

exchange registered with th-e Securities and Exchange Commission as a
National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall
not apply to bank and insurance company stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
No such investments. however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred to
in this section exceeding forty percent ( 10% ) of the total market value
of all the cash. hank accounts and securities held.
In the event a constituent lodge decides to invest in securities described in Sections 2 and 3 above. it shall confer and counsel with the
professional Investment Advisor used by Grand Lodge. whose fees will
he paid by Grand Lodge.
Presently Grand Lodge law prohibits the investment of Life Membership Funds in Temple securities and limits such investments to those
set forth in Section 1 above.
We recommend that this law be changed so as to permit the diversification of investments of Life Membership Funds in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 1, 2 and 3 above. and subject to the same restrictions, provided that the accounts of such funds are kej,t and maintained
separately and apart from all other lodge assets.

179

Respectfully submitted,
LEO E. SIEVERT
CHARLES A. ADAMS
LESLIE E. ALT
VINCENT P. McMuRDO
PAUL A. PFLUEGER

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO STUDY
LIABILITY INSURANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodg.e of California:
The special committee to study the question of public liability insurance with reference to making it mandatory upon all of the constituent
lodges has completed its study and begs leave to report as follows:
For the purpose of putting into effect the voluntary plan of insurance
made available during 1950 questionaires were sent to all lodges and
constituent bodies of the jurisdiction.
Answers were returned on four hundred questionnaires which included seventy-five returned from Temple associations. Of the lodges
reporting 36% had some form of liability insurance in force. In each in-

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

stance the form of policy was very limited in its coverage and in most
instances too low.
It has been impossible to secure an accurate picture of the accident
history of lodges in this jurisdiction which could be completely relied
upon. The only true loss experience available is for the period March
1, 1950 to March 1, 1951 during the time the voluntary plan policy has
been in force. There were some minor claims made and small amounts
of money paid, but nothing of any consequence. We have heard rumors
of other losses in prior years but with no definite information. It is understood that there was one fatality and in another instance a serious automobile accident in Southern California.
About the time that this committee began its study of the desirability
of this type of coverage for constituent lodges the insurance carrier
handling the voluntary plan expressed a desire to cancel its policy, then
in force. It therefore became necessary for the insurance counsel to
locate a new company willing to write the coverage. This was accomplished and the policy is now placed in the Seaboard Surety Company,
which company meets all the requirements of sound insurance underwriting.
Your committee was composed of an insurance broker, an attorney,
and an executive of The Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company.
Each one has had some experience with the problems involved in the
matter of insurance. Each member of your committee felt that the exposure of the lodges and their members to litigation was sufficient to
warrant the carrying of public liability insurance coverage as a part of
the Grand Lodge Program. Most members of lodges do not realize
that their lodges are unincorporated associations and a suit against a
lodge can individually include each and every member of the lodge. In
the absence of any ability to collect from the lodge treasury, and if they
sought to bring in the individual members of the lodge for that.purpose,
they could proceed not only against the property of the lodge itself. but
against the property of each individual member of the lodge to enforce
payment of any judgment secured.

It is the contention of your Committee that each lodge comes within
the purview of that section of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State
of California-that in the case of a suit anyone seeking damages could
name not only the lodge, but each individual member of the lodge and
thereby compel them to defend themselves against any such action
which might be filed, whether it be justified or otherwise. Some lawyer
members may cite a legal proposition to the contrary, but it is always expensive to defend a lawsuit.
In view of this, your committee feels that it is important that each
and every lodge be required to carry insurance sufficiently broad to
protect, not only the joint property of the lodge and the members composing such lodge, but also the individual liability of each member
thereof in their capacity as such member.
The policy now in force and available on a voluntary basis insures:
"The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California; and/or its constituent lodges
to whom certificates of insurance may be issued hereunder;
and/or the Masonic Homes of California, a corporation; and/or
the Masonic Boards of Relief, and/or Employment Bureaus;
and/or the Masonic Club Houses at the University of California
at Berkeley and Los Angeles, California; and/or Masonic Temple Associations to whom certificates of insurance may be issued
hereunder; and/or any other person, association, organization,
firm, or corporation to whom certificates of insurance may be
issued hereunder."
The coverages accorded by the policy are as follows :

In support of that statement see Section 388 of the Code of Civil
Procedure of the State of California, which reads as follows:
"When two or more persons associated in any business, transact
such business under a common name, whether it comprises the
names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by such
common names, the summons in such cases being served on one
or more of the assoc~ates: and the judgment in the action shall
bind the joint property of all the associates, and the individual
property of the party or parties served with the process, in the
same manner as if all had been named defendents and had been
sued upon their joint liability."

COVERAGES
A. Bodily Injury Liability
including Automobile
B. Automobile Property
Damage Liability
C. Property Damage Liability
other than Automobile

D. Property Damage Liability,
Leased or Controlled
Premises ( $50.00 Deductible each Claim )

181

LIMITS OF LIABILITY
$ 100,000.00 each person
1,000,000.00 each occurrence
1,000,000.00 aggregate products
$ 50,000.00 each occurrence
50,000.00 each occurrence
l 00,000.00 aggregate operations
100,000.00 aggregate protective
l 00,000.00 aggregate products
l 00,000.00 aggregate contractual
$ l 0,000.00 each occurrence
10,000.00 aggregate operations
l 0,000.00 aggregate protective
10,000.00 aggregate products
10,000.00 aggregate contractual
$

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The coverage of the policy is such that almost every conceivable
occurrence which could take place under any circumstance involving
activity of the insured lodge is covered under the policy and each member of the lodge is also protected along with the lodge. The policy goes
further to the effect that each member of the lodge, although he is in the
position of being an insured of the policy, likewise is in the position of
being a member of the public if he should at any time be injured and
make a claim against the lodge. If his claim were legitimate it would be
covered under the policy. This does not mean of course that it is an
accident and health policy.
The high limits of coverage are very important in view of the fact
that today large judgments are often given for trivial occurrences. One
might as well be without insurance as to be without enough insurance.
The limits of liability and the other clauses of the policy make it a most
desirable and acceptable form of insurance.
The annual premiums for each lodge are based upon the membership
of the lodge so that a just and proportional rate is charged to each lodge.
In support of the recommendation which your committee is making
on this case we attach copies of all the material which was used in formulating this following recommendation.
Your committee unanimously recommends that a resolution be passed
by Grand Lodge requiring that public liability and property damage
insurance be mandatory for all constituent lodges in this jurisdiction,
with the provision that the lodge shall have the option of electing to
come under the grand lodge program of insurance or provide themselves
with coverage comparable to that provided by Grand Lodge.
It is believed by the insurance counsel. who has placed the present
public liability insurance for Grand Lodge, and your Committee, that
should the lodges of this jurisdiction sign up 100% for coverage now
available the premiums can be further reduced. We might even. go
further and say that the coverage of the policy might be broadened
where possible if all lodges come in under the program.
In view of the broad coverages and excellent limits of the policy
herein referred to, it is hoped that no lodge will exercise the option of
securing a separate insurance policy comparable to the Grand Lodge
program even though they might be able to find it.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES

182

Respectfully submitted,
EARL B. MYERS, Chairman
CHESTER R. MACPHEE
GRAHAM A. BACKUS
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

183

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to the Committee on Grievances a total of
42 records. This report to Grand Lodge by your Committee will deal ·
with 30 of these records. The remaining 12 records will be covered by
separate reports due to the fact that they involve appeals, petitions for
restoration, or some other situation which, in the opinion of your Committee, require them to be separately considered.
Certain types of errors in Masonic Trial procedure seem to occur,
year after year, in spite of the fact that such errors are repeatedly called
to the attention of Grand Lodge. It seems not amiss to mention again
one of these. In doing so, we quote from our report to Grand Lodge at
its 1950 convention:
"Many Masonic trials arise out of matters which· have been the
subject of criminal court procedure, resulting in a conviction of the
accused. In such cases, in the preparation of Masonic charges,
where automatic expulsion under Section 332 is not available, the
offense committed by the accused should be charged rather than the
fact that the accused has been convicted of the offense. It is the
commission of the offense which constitutes unmasonic conduct
rather than the conviction therefor. To charge the conviction rather
than the offense itself is to plead a result rather than the cause."
Your Committee proposes to recommend to Grand Lodge the affirmance of the result reached in the following trial records:
No. 1222-( Retrial). A member of Santa Maria Lodge No. 580. Ex~lled September 10, 1951.
.
No. 1224-(Retrial). A member of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568.
Expelled April 5, 1951.
No. 1225-A member of Oakdale Lodge No. 275. Suspended September 12, 1950.
No. 1228-A member of El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576. Expelled
October 5, 1950.
P57-Continued
No. 1229-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled October 13,
1950.
No. 1231-A member of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657. Expelled
November 6, 1950.
No. 1232-A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Expelled November
7, 1950.
No. 1233--A member of Provident Lodge No. 609. Expelled November 6, 1950.
No. 1234-A member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120. Expelled December
7. 1950.
No. 1235-A member of Mountain View Lodge No. 194. Expelled January 2, 1951.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. 1236-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled December
7. 1950.
No. 1238-A member of Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331. Suspended
January 2, 1951.
No. 1239-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 665. Expelled October 2, 1950.
No. 1240-A member of Park Lodge No. 449. Expelled January 4,
1951.
No. 1241-A member of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530. Reprimanded
December 14, 1950.
No. 1242-A member of Mount Oso Lodge No. 460. Acquitted March
12. 1951.
No. 1243--A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Expelled
May 3, 1951.
.
No. 1245-A Fellowcraft of Eureka Lodge No. 16. Expelled June 4,
1951.
No. 1246-A member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120. Suspended June 7,
1951.
No. 1247-A member of Utopia Lodge No. 537. Expelled June 1, 1951.
No. 1248-A member of Reseda Lodge No. 666. Acquitted December
7. 1950.
No. 1249-A member of Foothill Lodge No. 564. Expelled July 5, 1951.
No. 1250-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled November
7. 1950.
No. 1252-A member of Yount Lodge No. 12. Expelled July 3, 1951.
No. 1253--A member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409. Expelled August 7,
1951.
.
No. 1254-A member of Dinuba Lodge No. 385. Expelled August 14,
1951.
No. 1255-An Entered Apprentice of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled July 11, 1950.
No. 1257-A member of Composite Lodge No. 639. Expelled September 5, 1951.
No. 1258-A member of Downey Lodge No. 220. Expelled August 2,
1951.
No. 1259-A member of Victory Lodge No. 474. Reprimanded August
6. 1951.
In each of the foregoing matters, your Committee has carefully reviewed the record.
We find therein no errors of a character which have resulted in a
miscarriage of justice. In each of them, the procedure has substantially
conformed to the requirements of our ordinances. In each of them, the
result has the support of substantial evidence in the record, and, in those
instances in which the accused has suffered either reprimand. suspension,

or explusion, we feel that the finding of guilty is adequately supported
and that the penalty imposed is in reasonable accord with the character
of the offense committed.
. We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED. that in each of the foregoing enumerated
trial records. the finding and determination of the Trial Commission, and
the penalty imposed, be, and the same hereby are, affirmed, ratified, and
approved.

184

185

FRANK B. BELCHER
JoE L. SHELL
ALBERT F. Ross
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
RALPH E. HoYT
JAMES R. GRAY
KEITH HAMNER

Adopted
Trial Records reported on during subsequent days are consolidated
in this numerical sequence for convenience of reference.

Trial Record No. 946
Trial Record No. 946, referred to your committee on grievances,
presents a Petition for Restoration of one C. J. S .• formerly a member
of Oakland Lodge No. 188.
Petitioner .was expelled in 1938 for lewd and lascivious acts committed upon a five year old girl for which he was convicted in the
Superior Court of a violation of Section 288 of the Penal Code, a felony.
In 1943 the petitioner presented a Petition for Restoration which was
apparently withdrawn. In 1948 he again made application 'for restoration. There being no showing that petitioner had rehabilitated himself
this petition was denied without prejudice. The concurrent petition is
accompanied by seven rather general letters of recommendation. These
letters do not furnish any substantial evidence that he has rehabilitated
himself. With reference to this petitioner, his former Lodge has indicated
that he is not acceptable to it for membership.
The seriousness and extent o~ his misconduct as disclosed by the trial
record places upon the accused the burden of producing some substantial evidence that he has rehabilitated himself. In the absence of such
evidence the committee does not feel that favorable action is warranted.
We. therefore, offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of C. J. S. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and it is hereby denied without
prejudice.

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Trial Record No. 954
Your Committee, to which was referred the application of G. 0. S.
for restoration, reports as follows:
The petitioner was expelled on June 5, 1939, by Roseville Lodge No.
222 on a charge of unmasonic conduct, based upon specifications charging. among other acts of misconduct, two instances of petty theft.
At the 1939 communication, Grand Lodge affirmed the expulsion.
In his petition, the applicant states that he was expelled in April
1937, which date is in error, asks for restoration, and states that he can
give references to a number of Masons for his character since his expulsion. No recommendations are presented on his behalf.
The burden.is upon a petitioner for restoration to show his rehabilitation since his expulsion. Mere lapse of time raises no inference of rehabi1itation: Perhaps this petitioner was not aware of the burden upon
him to make such showing.
In order that he may have later opportunity to renew his petition and
to properly support it, your Committee offers the following resolution
and moves its adoption:
RESOLVED. that the application of G. 0. S. for restoration to the
rights and privileges be and the same is hereby denied. without prejudice.

view of the action of this Grand Lodge in restoring his companion two
years ago, we believe that restoration of petitioner herein is justified.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
Be it resolved that the petition of A. J. M. for restoration be and the
same is hereby granted, and he is restored to the rights and privileges of
Masonry.

Adopted

Trial Record No. 1053
Y ~ur Committee on Grievances. to which was referred the application of A. J. M. for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry.
reports as follows:
This petitioner. formerly a member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409
was automatically expelled under Section 332 of the Ordinances in
1945 after conviction of a felony in the United States District Court
and sentence of two years in a federal prison. The crime was larceny of
government property from the U.S. Navy. by which he was employed.
Involved in the same crime and conviction was one H. L. C., another
member of Honolulu Lodge. who was also automatically expelled at the
same time as petitioner.
Both men were released on parole after eight months imprisonment
and petitioner states that he has now received a pardon from the President of the United States. His application for restoration is accompanied
by several good letters of recommendation. Proper notice has been given
to the lodge of the application.
H. L. C., the other Mason involved in this crime, was restored by
Grand Lodge in 1949.
While the crime for which accused was convicted was a serious one
and a breach of his trust as an employee of the Navy, and cannot be
condoned. we feel that he has paid the penalty for it, and particularly in

Adopted

Trail Record No. 1098
Your Committee, to which· was referred the proceedings taken .by
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, in the matter of the application of J.E. W.,
for reinstatement, reports as follows:
The applicant was suspended January 16, 1947. He applied to the
Lodge on May 17th, 1951, for reinstatement, and at the stated meeting
of the Lodge on that date a resolution proposing his reinstatement was
presented. The Master of the Lodge appointed a committee of three
past masters to investigate and report, which committee reported at the
stated meeting of the Lodge on June 21st, 1951, whereupon the Lodge
voted unanimously to reinstate the applicant.
Your Committee finds that the proceedjngs are in accordance with
the provisions of Section 343, Constitution and Ordinances, and we
therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the action of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, reinstating J.E. W .• be and the same hereby is ratified and confirmed.
Adopted •

Trial Record No. 1149
Your Committee, to which was referred the petition of K. C. H. for
restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs leave to report
as follows:
The accused, a Fellowcraft, was expelled in 1948 after a sharply
contested trial in which the accused was charged with being in the
saloon business. The question presented to the Trial Commission was
whether the place of business of which the accused was a part owner,
was a saloon or a bona fide restaurant. On conflicting evidence the Trial
Commission found against the accused and there being sufficient evidence to support this finding, the judgment of the Trial Commission
was affirmed but the penalty of suspension as fixed by the Commission
was changed by Grand Lodge to that of expulsion.
K. C. H. has filed his petition dated July 23, 1951, seeking restoration. The petition states that about July 25, 1950 the petitioner disposed
of his interest in the business, which was held to be a saloon rather than
a bona fide restaurant by the Trial Commission. Since that time, he

188

189

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

alleges that he has not engaged in any way in the liquor business either
wholesale or retail: that he does not now have any interest in such busi·
ness and that he never intends to engage.in or be in any way connected
with the liquor business. The petition further sets forth that he is now
engaged in the amusement business, owning and leasing automatic
phonographs.
Attached to the petition is the acknowledgment of East San Diego
Lodge of a copy of the intended application. The Petition is supported
by satisfactory letters of recommendation from responsible individuals.
It appears to the Committee that the petitioner has met the necessary
requirements for a favorable consideration of his application. We, there·
fore, offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of K. C. H. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby granted.

he had made a complete atonement for his error and, therefore, deserves ·
favorable consideration. The petitioner should present information as
to his present occupation and residence as well as his activities since his
expulsion.
Although our law does not require any specified form of petition, the
petition should be something more than merely a request for reinstate.
ment. Sufficient facts should be set forth so that the Committee may
make a recommendation to Grand Lodge, where the power to restore
rests. It is the opinion of your Committee that the petition and request
in this case is insufficient. No history whatsoever was given as to the
activities of the petitioner since his expulsion. Except the one statement
regarding his occupation, none of the supporting letters contain any
additional information. We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of H. C. B. for restoration of -the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same hereby is denied
without prejudice.

Adopted

Trial Record No. 1169
Your Committee to which was referred the petition of H. B. C. for
restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs leave to report
as follows:
The accused was expelled in 1949 after a trial. He was found guilty
of living with another woman as his wife while his marriage was in effect.
The accused did not appear at the trial but wrote a letter denying the
charges. It appeared that the accused, at a date subsequent to the time
when the acts with which he was charged, were committed, obtained a
divorce in Nevada and married the woman who was named as corre.
spondent in the charges. The judgment of expulsion was affirmed by this
Grand Lodge at the 1949 communication.
Approximately two years have elapsed and the accused now presents
a request for restoration. His original request is contained in a very short
letter sent from San Antonio, Texas, where he now resides, dated
March 20, 1951, reading simply, "I am herewith making an application
for reinstatement." Being advised that letters of recommendation should
be presented, he forwarded six letters with a letter dated May 21, 1951,
reading "I hope that the Reviewing Committee will reach a favorable de·
cision as one of my greatest desires is to again become an active mem·
her in the Fraternity." The letters of recommendation are short, most
of them consisting of only a sentence or two in which the recommenders
state that they know of no reason why the petitioner should not be re·
stored. One of the letters states that the recommender had worked with
H. C. B. for the past two and three·qua~r years, both being employed
by the Express Publishing Company, which is the only information we
have as to the activities of H. C. B. since his expulsion.
It is the well established principle of this Grand Lodge that a peti·
tioner, in an application for restoration, has the burden of showing that

Adopted

Trial Record No. 1185
Your Committee, to which was referred the proceedings taken by
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, in the reinstatement of J. C. S., reports as
follows:
The applicant was suspended July 1st, 1949, by Silver Gate Lodge.
A resolution proposing his reinstatement was presented to the Lodge
at its stated meeting of March 2nd, 1951, and was held over by the
Lodge at the stated meeting of April 6th until the stated meeting of ,May
4th. At that time a vote was taken which resulted in a vote of 88 for rein·
statement out of a total number of members present of 117. The requirement, of Section 343, Constitution and Ordinances being that at least
two-thirds of the members of the Lodge present shall vote for reinstate·
ment in order that it be approved the result of the vote in this case was
sufficient.
Your Committee flnds that the provisions of Section 343, Constitution and Ordinances have been complied with in this matter, and therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the action of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, reinstating J. C. S. be and the same is hereby ratified and confirmed.
Adopted

Trial Record No. 1200
The accused M. E. B., a member of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410.
was charged with several specifications of defrauding the widow of a
Master Mason by overcharging interest on loans and by collecting sums
due him from her more tha~ once, etc. He was acquitted by the trial com-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mission and, based on the report of this committee, Grand Lodge in 1~50
reversed this acquittal and sent the case back to the lodge for retnal.
The reasons for the reversal were that the charges were loosely drawn
and in some respects failed to state masonic offenses, no reporters record
of the trial was made and the record of the testimony was ~ery sket~~Y·
with the exhibits omitted entirely, and there were several 1rregular1ties
in the conduct of the trial.
... . .
.
Since then the accuser has notified the lodge that he is .mclmed to
discontinue any further action" on the charges, and a committee of the
lodge has investigated the matter and has appeare~ person~~ly before
your Grievances Committee and expressed its belief m the futility of any
further action. The Master of the lodge on October 8, 1951, presented us
with the following letter which has been filed herein:
"This case was remanded to Charter Rock Lodge No. 410 for a
new trial: and the accuser having indicated that he ~id not ~sh to
proceed further with the trial, a committee was appointed to mves.tigate the charges and determine what proof could be presented at
a new trial to substantiate the same.
.
"After a full and complete investigation the committee has
reached the following conclusions and has submitted them. to me:
"1. That the widow referred to in the original charges 1s not a
Masonic widow.
.
"2. That the widow is deaf and incapable of testifying direc~ly m
regard to the charges but can testify only through an interpreter whose lips she can read: and that she is of advanced age
(being over eighty years old) and in poo~ health, and her
recollections of the transactions are not entirely clear.
"3. That the transactions occurred many years ago and the figures
in regard to the amounts loaned and repaid are in dispute and
cannot be fully substantiated.
"4. That sufficient evidence cannot be produced to assure a conviction.
"5. That the original accuser does not wish to proceed further
with the trial.
"In view of the foregoing and the fact that the original ac.cu~er
does not wish to proceed further with the trial, I request perm1ss1on
from Grand Lodge for Charter Rock Lodge No. 4~0 to be ~~lieved
from the duty of proceeding with a new trial in thlS matter.
In view of these circumstances we feel that the lo~ge should b~ relieved of the mandate for a further trial which was imposed on it by
Grand Lodge in 1950. We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That Charter Rock Lodge No. 410 b~ relieved from
the mandate to proceed further in the matter of. Ti:al Record No.
1200 and that the charges against M. E. B. be dismissed.

Trial Record No. 1230
Your committee, to which was referred Trial Record No. 1230, reports as follows:
Accused, H. A. W., a member of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258, was ex.pelled by his lodge, after conviction of unmasonic conduct. There were
two specifications in the charges-first, that in June, 1945, the accused
was adjudged guilty of adultery in a divorce action brought against
him in West Virginia, and second, that on November 11, 1940, he was
arrested in San Bernardino County, California, for grand theft, which
was later reduced to petty theft, on conviction of which he served thirty
days in the county jail.
At the masonic trial a certified copy of the divorce judgment in West
Virginia was introduced in evidence. It recited that accused had been
. absent from the state and had been served with summons by publication in a newspaper and that he was guilty of adultery and the divorce
was granted on that ground.
On the second specification the following evidence was introduced:
A police report card of the Sheriff's Office of San Bernardino County
filled in with typing showing the general description of the accused, and
a statement of his name and address in West Virginia and the words
"Crime Grand Theft (reduced to P. T.) Date: 11-28.-40." Two pic.tures of the accused are attached to this card. A letter from the secre.tary of the lodge in San Bernardino stating that he had information that
accused was involved in a holdup there in 1948 which was reduced to a
charge of carrying concealed weapons, and that the police records
showed that 9e had b~en involved in purse snatching in 1940 in West
Virginia, which was reduced to petty theft for which he served a
sentence.
Service of the charges in this masonic proceeding was made personally by the tiler of Penrhyn Lodge at Auburn, thirteen days before
the date of trial. Where an accused is within the jurisdiction of the
lodge, service should be made at least ten days before the trial, while if
he is without said jurisdiction but within the state of California, the
service must be thirty days prior to trial and may be made by mail. We
assume that Auburn, being eight miles from Penrhyn, is within the jurisdiction of Penrhyn Lodge and that the ten days service in this case was
sufficient.
However, the charges do not state masonic offenses. As often pointed
out in the past, it is the commission of an offense against the law which
is a Masonic offense and not the conviction for the same in court nor
the adjudication of the facts by a state court. In this case the adultery,
if any, was the masonic offense and not the finding of adultery by a
divorce court, and the crime set out in the second specification was the
masonic offense and not the facts of being arrested, convicted and imprisoned for it.

190

Adopted

191

192

193

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The evidence on the second specification was entirely incompetent.
The letter from the lodge secretary was admittedly pure hearsay and
would be legally such even had the secretary had actual knowledge of
the events recited. The police record was also legally hearsay and not
the authenticated record required by Section 319 of the Ordinances. The
Sheriff's Office at San Bernardino had apparently used one of their own
report cards to type in the information they had about an old petty
theft conviction in West Virginia, and this even confused the accuser
in this case so that the specification recites the conviction as having
occurred in San Bernardino. The charges make no mention of the concealed weapons charge there which was referred to by the lodge secretary in San Bernardino,
As to the first specification, Sections 319, 992 and 993 Ross' Digest
authorize the use of certified copies of records of criminal convictions in
state courts as prima facie evidence of guilt, and under Section 754,
Ross' Digest. the record of a judgment in a civil action adjudicating the
fact of guilt of adultery, as here. would be like evidence. We feel. however, that the weight, if not the admissibility, of such evidence is greatly
lessened where the civil case involved is one in whi<:h judgmnt was
granted by default and particularly where the service on the defendant
was by publication. In the divorce case involved in this trial record it is
not at all certain that the accused even knew of the divorce action
brought against him in West Virginia. He was adjudged as absent from
that state with address unknown and the summons was published in a
newspaper. The judgment in the divorce case states that he was guilty of
adultery, without specifications of time, place, persons or other details.
Taken in connection with the errors as to the second specification we feel
that the proof on the first specification is far from satisfactory to establish the masonic offense aimed at. As stated before, the charges actually
set forth no masonic offenses.
As amended charges may be brought in this case and the matter
again tried, we feel that we should mention another point.
We cannot tell from the record when accused became a Mason. The
police record states his age was 23 in 1940, and he was then living in
West Virginia. The divorce action was in 1945 and the alleged adultery
necessarily occurred prior to that time.
Last year, 1950, in Trial Record No. 1191 (Grand Lodge Proceedings, page 184 ) we held and Grand Lodge approved our report that
automatic expulsion could apply only to convictions occurring after the
accused became a Mason, and we recommended that "in the event
charges may be preferred they should charge a Masonic offense occurring either after accused had become a Mason or in the course of
his application for Masonry." We feel that any old offenses such as
petty theft and the adultery in West Virginia in this case might be met
by charging the failure to divulge them to an investigating committee if
he was questioned. If the accused herein was convicted of carrying a

concealed weapon in San Bernardino in 1948, as suggested in the correspondence herein, that might be the proper basis for charges.
As the charges here do not state properly any masonic offenses, and
as the evidence taken was incompetent and insufficient to prove the
crimes and the adultery which were apparently sought to be charged,
this conviction must be reversed.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved: That the action of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258 in expe1ling H. A. W. be reversed and set aside and the matter remanded
to that lodge for such further proceedings not inconsistent with this
report as it may desire.
Adopted

Trial Record No. 1237
Your committee on grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1237, reports as follows:
Accused L. S. M. (a member of Whittier Lodge No. 323) was
charged with unmasonic conduct based upon five specifications of petty
theft.
The charge was filed by the Junior Warden by direction of the
Master of Whittier Lodge. The Master of the Lodge presided at the
trial. The accused did not appear at the trial but wrote a letter in which
he conceded t}te truth of the specifications. The Commissioners found
the accused "guilty" of each of the specifications and fixed the penalty
at expulsion, but did not vote upon the charge of unmasonic conduct.
Under Section 956 of Ross' Digest if the Master of a Lodge directs
the Junior Warden to prefer charges against one of its members such
Master cannot preside at the trial and ordinarily a violation of this section would be so prejudicial as to require reversal. However, in this case
the guilt of the accused is admitted and it is therefore clear that no
prejudice resulted to the accused from this irregularity. For the same
reason your committee is of the opinion that the failure of the Commissions to find on the charge of unmasonic conduct is a technical error and
that the Grand Lodge should supply a finding of "guilty" on the charge
of unmasonic conduct.
We, therefore, offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved: That in Trial Record No. 1237 a finding of "guilty..
on the charge of unmasonic conduct be and it is hereby supplied and
that the action of Whittier Lodge No. 323 in expelling L. S. M. be
and it is hereby ratified, affirmed and approved.
Adopted

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Trial Record No. 1244
Your Committee, to which was referred the trial record in the case
of C. A. L., suspended by Carquinez Lodge No. 337 on May 2, 1951,
after examination and consideration of the same begs leave to report as
follows:
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct based upon a
speciflcation alleging that about March 1, 1947. and subsequent thereto,
he acted as a bartender in a saloon business at Rodeo. California.
At the time set for trial the accused appeared in person and submitted
his plea in writing as follows:
"To the charge of having acted as a bartender in the 76 C_lub
located in Rodeo, I wish to plead guilty as charged. At the time
I entered this profession I was unaware that it constituted a
Masonic offense. To be a Mason means a great deal to me and I
promise to discontinue this profession and will do my best to
atone for my error."
The trial commission properly found the accused guilty of the charge
of unmasonic conduct1 and of the speciflcation.
As to the penalty to be imposed, the commissioners voted as follows:
Expulsion, Aye 3, No 4: Suspension, Aye 6, No 1.
We find no error in the proceedings in this case: but find it necessary to call attention to the long established policy of Grand Lodge that
the penalty in such cases should be expul.sio~. This ~licy is b~sed upon
the provisions of Sec. 210 of the Constitution, which reads m part as
follows:
" .•• and any Mason who may hereafter enter upon and engage
in the saloon business, either as owner, agent or employee, except in connection with and as part of the operation of a bona
B.de hotel or restaurant, or who shall become a barke~per, shall be
deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon due trial an~
conviction of said offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership in any Lodge."
Your committee believes that the provision for forfeiture of all Masonic rights and privileges in such cases requires. e~pulsion: and not
suspension, as the penalty to be imposed after conviction of this offense,
and therefore offers the following resolution:
·
RESOLVED, that the sentence imposed by the trial-com~ission of
Carquinez Lodge No. 337, suspending C. A. ·L. from the nghts and
privileges of Masonry, be and the same is hereby disapproved: ~nd that,
by the action of this Grand Lodge, the said C. A. L. be and he is hereby
expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Trial Record No. 1251
To your Committee on Grievances there has been referred Trial
Record No. 1251 involving an accused, J. R. K.
An appeal has been taken from the penalty of expulsion fixed by the
Trial Commission.
By an amended complaint, the accused was charged with unmasonic
conduct, supported by three specifications, which may be summarized
as follows:
Specification 1. That the accused, knowing that he had been
convicted of felonies on two separate occasions involving forgery
and illegal sale of liquor, answered "No" to question No. 12 in the
Application for Degrees, which reads:
"Do you know of any physical, legal, or moral reason which
would prevent you from becoming a Free Mason?":
and that the accused, throughout, wilfully concealed the facts of his
former conviction and incarceration from Norwalk Lodge No. 315,
F. & A. M.: that the accused failed to register with the Sheriff of Los
Angeles County as an ex-convict, as required by the County Ordinances:
Specification 2. That on October 17, 1930, the accused was
convicted of forgery in Texas: was sentenced to two years, and
served a term of one year and twenty-seven days pursuant thereto:
and
Specification 3. That on or about March 1, 1935, the accused
was convicted of the crime of selling liquor, a felony in the State of
Texas, was sentenced to three years in prison, and served two years,
nine months, and twenty-six days pursuant thereto.
It will be noted that Specifications 2 and 3 charge that the accused
suffered convictions of two offenses--one in 1930 and one in 1935.
Neither of said Specilkations charge the commission of the offenses for
which the accused was convicted. It has been repeatedly held by _the
Grand Lodge that a charge of being convicted of a crime is not a masonic
offense. It is the commission of the crime which should be set forth in the
speciflcation and not the conviction therefor.
There is no dispute in the record concerning the fact that the accused
was convicted of forgery in Texas on October 17, 1930 and that he likewise was convicted of selling liquor on March 1, 1935. The record also
shows that in 1935, the Governor of Texas issued a conditional pardon
to the accused for the forgery crime of 1930 and that some time during
the l 930's, (the exact date not appearing) a conditional pardon was
given for the liquor selling crime committed in 1935.
Under date of December 2, 1946, the accused made
application
for degrees in Norwalk Lodge No. 315 and was thereafter elected to,

Adopted

195

his

196

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

and received, his degrees in that Lodge. It was in that application that he
answered "No" to question 12 relating to "physical, legal, or moral
reason" which would prevent him from becoming a Free Mason.
On April 1, 1951. the present Masonic charges were preferred
against the accused. The elected Commissioners held their first meeting
on May 19, 1951, at which time a continuance was granted to June 30,
1951. In the meantime, and on June 3, 1951, the Governor of Texas
granted the accused a full pardon and restoration of citizenship for bo~h
of the crimes committed by the accused--one in 1930 and the other m
1935.
Turning now to the record relative to Specification 1 ~hargin.g the
failure to disclose the criminal conviction in answer to question 12 m the
application for degrees, we find no evidence whatsoever i~. the,,record of
any concealment by the accused other than his answer of No to question 12. There is no evidence whatsoever that any of the members of the
Investigating Committee ever inquired of accused as to prior convictions.
In this connection, we may observe that on at least two former occasions,
an effort has been made to get Grand Lodge to amend the form of the
Application for degrees by including therein a specific question rela?ng
to former criminal convictions. In both instances, Grand Lodge declined
to amend the form of the Application.
Let there be no doubt that an accused may be properly disciplined
if he fails to disclose former criminal convictions in response to a direct
question which would call for such disclosure or if his failure to disclose
same during the course of his investigation amounts to a fraudulent
concealment.
This case therefore, clearly presents the question as to whether the
mere failure ~f a petitioner to disclose prior criminal conviction~ in response to question 12 of the Application, standing alone, constitutes a
Masonic offense for which discipline may be imposed after the degrees
are received. The lodges of this jurisdiction are entitled to a clea.rcut
answer to this question for their future guidance. Y ~ur Comm1tte.e
recommends that the question be answered in the negative and that 1t
be the ruling of Grand Lodge that the mere failure of ~ petitioner to
disclose prior criminal convictions in response to question 12 of the
Application, standing alone, without other facts show~ng an actual
fraudulent concealment, does not constitute a Masonic offense for
which discipline may be imposed after the degrees are received.
During the trial of the accused, proper court records showin~ the
conviction of the accused of the crimes of forgery and sale of liquor
were introduced in evidence. Under many former rulings, such records
constitute prima facie evidence of the guilt of the accused of t.he crimes
for which he was convicted. The conviction for those crimes 1s not denied by the accused. However, the accused, through his counsel, endeavored to prove, and made an offer of proof, to the general effect that,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

197

in fact, the accused was not guilty of either of said crimes. The W orshipful Master, presiding at the trial. sustained the objections and declined to permit the Trial Commission to receive the offered evidence.
Section 314 of our Ordinances gives the accused the right to make statements in justification and extenuation. Instances are not Jacking in which
accuseds have been acquitted on a Masonic trial. although previously
convicted for the same offense in the courts of the ]and. The ruling,
therefore, was clearly erroneous and that alone would require a reversal
·
of the conviction.
Your Committee, therefore, offers and moves the adoption of the following resolution:
. Be It Resolved: That the conviction of the accused, J. R. K.,
and the fixing of the penalty at expulsion, be, and the same hereby
is, reversed and the matter dismissed.
Be It Further Resolved: That the reversal and dismissal hereby
ordered shall not be a bar to the prosecution of other charges
against accused based upon facts showing an actual fraudulent
concealment of the criminal convictions prior to the application for
degrees if proof thereof be available.
Be It Further Resolved: That it is the sense of Grand Lodge that
the mere failure of a petitioner to disclose prior criminal convictions in response to question 12 of the Application for degrees,
standing alone, and without other facts showing an actual fraudulent concealment, do not constitute a Masonic offense for which
discipline may be imposed after the degrees are received.
Adopted •

Trial Record No. 1256
To your Committee on Grievances has been referred Trial Record
No. 1256 involving T. M. C., a member of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389.
Said T. M. C. is presently a resident of Scottsbluff, Nebraska. He is
there engaged in the liquor business as an officer of Terry Carpenter,
Inc. This corporation holds a license regularly issued by the State of
Nebraska for the "off sale" of liquor-in other words, it is a liquor
store. It does not engage in the sale of liquor for consumption on the
premises.
The Grand Jurisdiction of Nebraska, in whose :jurisdiction the said
T. M. C. resides, has made it a Masonic offense for a Mason to engage
in the sale, as a beverage, of intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine.
The actions of T. M. C. are therefore a violation of the Masonic Law
of Nebraska.
Masonic charges were preferred against the said T. M. C. in Nebraska, due and proper service was made of the charges, and the said
T. M. C. declined to appear, claiming that the Grand Lodge of Ne-

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

braska had no jurisdiction over him. A Masonic trial was had in d11e
and proper fashion and resulted in the expulsion of T. M. C. A copy of
the record of said trial in Nebraska has been flied with the Grand Secretary and referred to your Grievance Committee.
Section 210 of our Ordinances prohibits a Mason in California from
engaging in the saloon business or as a barkeeper except in connection
with, and as a part of. the operation of a bona flde hotel or restaurant.
Under our ordinances, it is not an offense for a Mason to engage in
the so-called "off sale" of liquor, either as a wholesaler or a retailer.
Our ordinances contain no prohibition against a Mason operating a
liquor store where liquor is not consumed on the premises. This, however. is a Masonic offense in Nebraska and for it the said T. M. C. has
been duly and regularly ordered expelled by the Grand Jurisdiction of
Nebraska.
Section 331 of our Ordinances provides as follows:
"Whenever it shall appear by the record of conviction from another Masonic jurisdiction, recognized by us, that a member of one
of our Lodges, resident in such jurisdiction, has been suspended or
expelled for unmasonic conduct in such jurisdiction while a resident
thereof. it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of the Lodge in
this jurisdiction of which he is a member to prefer charges against
him for the acts and conduct alleged in the charges preferred in the
foreign jurisdiction and of which he was there convicted, and the
same proceedings shall thereupon be had as in ordinary cases: provided that the record of conviction of the foreign jurisdiction shall
be received on the trial as prima facie evidence of the guilt of the
brother of such acts and conduct."
In the opinion of your Committee, Sec. 331 contemplates that the unmasonic conduct alleged in the foreign jurisdiction must be of an offense
which would constitute unmasonic conduct in this jurisdiction. Ordinarily, and in the absence of proof of extenuating circumstances, we
would extend full faith and credit to a foreign adjudication of unmasonic
conduct. Nebraska has an unquestioned right to deny Masonic privileges to a sojourning Mason who violates its Masonic law just as California reserves and exercises jurisdiction over Masons sojourning in
this jurisdiction.
However, since it is clear that the so-called "off sale" of liquor is not
a masonic offense under our law, it would be an idle act for Palos Verdes
Lodge No. 389 to proceed with a trial of the accused which is predicated
upon his conviction in Nebraska. If the Palos Verdes Lodge should
proceed with such a trial and it should result in disciplinary action
against the accused, your Committee would be compelled to advise
Grand Lodge that such disciplinary action should be reversed.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved: That the record of the trial and expulsion of T. M. C.
by the Grand Lodge of Nebraska be received and flied by the Grand
Secretary; and
Be It Further Resolved: That such adjudication of expulsion be
declared to be without force or effect within this grand jurisdiction
only because it is based upon facts which do not constitute a ma·
sonic offense in this grand jurisdiction.
The report of the Committee on Grievances failed of adoption.
The Deputy Grand Master, presiding at the time, ordered the record
sent to Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389 for proceedings in accordance with
Section 331.

198

. REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CENTENNIAL
ARRANGEMEN TS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee submitted a progress report to the brethren of Grand
Lodge at the 1950 Annual Communication, and recommended that an
appropriate record of the Centennial be compiled under the supervision
of the Grand Secretary and published in a volume similar to that in
which were set forth the Proceedings of the Diamond Jubilee. This
recommendation was referred to the Committees on Policy and General
Purposes and on Finance (page 138). The Committee on Finance concurred in the recommendation and provided that the cost of same should
"be paid from. funds in the hands of the Centennial Committee if any
surplus remain after payment of all expenses, if not, that the cost be paid
from Grand Lodge General Fund."
The lodges of the jurisdiction per capita payments amounted to
$140,879.00, of which $81,315.92 was expended, leaving an unexpended
balance of $59,563.08. After earmarking an estimated amount for cost
of publication of the Centennial volume, the Committee recommended
that the balance be refunded to the respective lodges, pro rata, ( 33%%
each). which has been done.
Nothing was left undone which might reasonably have been done
for entertainment and hospitality. In the Centennial Appendix, Proceedings of 1950, the highlights of the celebration and official record
of special addresses which were delivered by the Grand Master and
Distinguished Guests were set forth. There was also a brief account
of the activities of the Committee and a list of Distinguished Guests.
Individual appreciations of those who participated in any capacity will
be contained in the Centennial volume. This is in keeping with the
thought of the Committee that "No matter how magnificent are the
possibilities of a project it can be marred by failure of or incomplete
discharge of those functions which seem minute or inconsequential."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

200

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Considerable progress has been made in preparation of the volume
which should be ready for appropriate distribution at an early date.
It probably is not amiss to repeat a portion of the Foreword in the
official program:
"We have endeavored to conform to dignity in arranging events
intended to inspire appreciation and thanksgiving. While here, you
will observe the grandeur of material achievement and be conscio~s
of spiritual attainment, intended to give pause to ponder the magnitude and magnificence of the works of free man throughout our
State under the American system. Instrumental music and song
characterize great events in history and, accordingly, delightful and
triumphant music and song are intermingled with other pleasurable
.
events of the celebration."
It is the consensus that the program measured up to the objectives
and that much pleasure and benefit was derived by the brethren and a
splendid impression made. on the public.
Fraternally submitted,
FRANCIS

v. KEESLING

CARL OLSEN
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE
HARVEY TELLER
CYRIL WEEKS
HENRY

c. DAVIS

EARL B. MYERS

In discharging the Committee. the Grand Master expressed the .appreciation of this Grand Jurisdiction for the completeness and effectiveness with which they had planned and conducted such an impressive
observance of the Centennial.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
RESTORATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Columbia Temple Restoration is pleased to
submit herewith a report of its activities for the past year:
Pursuant to authorization of this Grand Lodge at the last Annual
Communication, the Committee proceeded to furnish and equip the
Columbia Lodge Room with furniture of design and appearance as that
used in the original Temple. By the 1st of April 1951, the Temple was
complete in this respect and ready for use. Accordingly, the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Arthur Paulsen, requested Tuolumne Lodge No.
8 of Sonora, California to confer the first Third degree in the newly
constructed and furnished Temple. As 8 o'clock on April 21,'1951, the
Lodge was opened by Worshipful Master Wallace E. Ware and his
corps of Officers, who conferred the Third degree on Brother George
Alexander Murphy. Past Grand Master, Brother Leon Whitsell was
received as a representative of the Grand Master and acted as Master
of Ceremonies for the occasion. .
The Committee wishes to express its appreciation to all the members
of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 for their co-operation and support during the
construction of the Temple and in the assisting of the various activities
which followed.
The following is a statement of the capital expenditure for the fiscal
year ending July 31, 1951:
Grand Lodge Appropriation................................ $3,275.00
Grand Master's Appropriation............................ 470.74
Total Appropriation 1950-51 ................................ 3,745.74
Expenditure 1950-51 ...................................•........ 3,711.24
Unexpended ..........................................................
34.50
In accordance wtih instructions from the Grand Master, a fire proof
vault was authorized to be placed in the basement of the Temple to
store the valuable records of the Grand Lodge. Brothers Donald Beach
Kirby and Harold Engle were designated as the Architect and Engineer,
respectively. The work was awarded to George Bates, Contractor, according to the plans herewith attached, for the sum of $6,766.00. The
work was started July 26, 1951 and completed Sept. 28, 1951. No expenditures for this account were made during the fiscal year. From August 1, 1951 to date, $4,625.48 has been expended for the construction.
During the past year, a new heating system has been installed and
also an air conditioning unit which makes the Lodge Room comfortable
at all seasons of the year.
The care. operation, maintenance and use of the Temple at all times,

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

is subject to the direction and supervision of three members of this
Committee, residents in Sonora. The actual maintenance work is done
by Brother Ray Irwin, who has done an excellent job, consequently, the
building is in perfect repair and is available for inspection at all times.
The property of the Temple has been accurately inventoried and a
strict method of accountability has been put into effe<;t.
Originally, this Committee recommended that the Lodge Room floor
be left uncovered, but after six months of use, it has been found to be
impracticable. Figures have been taken to lay the best grade of carpet,
the estimated cost being approximately $2,000.00. The plan and figure
is attached hereto.
A letter received from the Director of Beaches and Parks of the
State of California, dated August 31, 1951, requested that the appearance of the building ·b e "toned down," that is, remove the mortar and
effiorescence caused by crystalline powder from the used brick veneer on
the exterior of the building. It is recommended that this work be done
at an estimated cost of $500.00.
It was originally intended that the first floor room b~ used as an
assembly room for Lodges using the facilities of the Temple, but is now
felt by the Committee that a better use of the room can be made by its
being converted into a Masonic Museum to store and display all of the
historic paraphernalia, which can be assembled. It is recommended that
a member be appointed to this Committee who can give his full time to
the gathering, classifying, arranging and displaying of all this material.
The above suggestion is prompted by the fact that so many have visited
the new Masonic Temple in Columbia that a permanent Museum of this
type would not only provide a safe storing place for all this paraphernalia, ·b ut would provide much of interest for those visiting the Temple.
Since the formal opening of the Temple, seven lodges have conferred
degrees in the Temple, and it is hoped that more Lodges throughout the
state, will make use of its facilities. More publicity has been planned in
order that all Lodges will be more familiar with the use of the Temple
and its facilities. It is recommended to the Grand Master that two additional members be added to the Committee from different parts of the
state to help carry out this program.
Permission was granted to the First Presbyterian Church of Columbia to use the lower hall in which to conduct services during the time
their building was being restored from damage due to fire. A letter of
appreciation was received from them for this privilege.
The Committee wishes to acknowledge the generosity of the following for their donations to the new temple:
Pulpit Bible•.................................... Francis V. Keesling, P.G.M.
Tiler's Bible...................................~Lloyd E. Wilson, P.G.M.
Working Tools..............................Arthur Paulsen

203

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Low 12 Gong.................................. Chester H. Warlow, P.G.M.
Candidate'sCostum e..................... Walter H. E. von Kansky
Altar Cloth.....................................Arthur M. Warren
U. S. Flag........................................Henry C. Clausen
' Deacon's and Steward's Rods.......Arthur S. Crites, P.G.M.
Warden's Columns.........................Oscar Lawler, P.G.M.
Organ...•......•............., ......~··············Tuolumne Lodge No. 8
Gavels and Bases.......................•....Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569
Franklin Stove. ............................... Mrs. Jessie Savory,
Tuolumne, Calif.
New Benches.................................. Warren Young & Konrad &
Denton, Sonora, Calif.
The Committee requests the following amounts for the fiscal year
ending July 31, 1952:
Vault Construction ..............................................$6,766.00
Salaries and Utilities.............................................. 500.00
Covering Lodge Floor............................................ 2,000.00
Treating exterior of building (as requested by
State of California).......................................... 500.00
Depreciation, General Maintenance and
Contingencies .................................................... 1,200.00
Your Committee moves that the request for appropriations be re~
£erred to the Committee on Finance and that the remainder of the report
and recommendations be adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
IRA

w. COBURN

JoHN BOVEY
FRED INGEL
CECIL B. MATHEWS
HENRY TEMPLE
ARTHUR E. CLINK
ERNEST MENZIES

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

.'Y.~ur Co~mittee on Lodge Financing submits herewith a report of its
activities dunng the Masonic year just ended.
Literally hundreds of communications have been received, many of
them concerning Lodge activities outside the jurisdiction of this particular Committee, which nevertheless had to be acknowledged and/or
referred to proper channels.
.
During. the current year your Committee has been called on to approve or disapprove more than sixty applications, pursuant to Sections
78 and 152 of the Constitution and Ordinances.
A complete file on every case which has been submitted to the Committee, including all the details of the request, exhibits and pertinent
d~ta required for guidance in arriving at a decision, comments by Committee members, together with a copy of written consent, is mailed to the
Grand Secretary's office as a part of the official records df this Grand
Lodge.
While severe material restrictions have been imposed on the building of certain types of structures since the Korean incident developd
more than a year ago. the Defense Production Authority of the Department of Commerce has considered it in the public interest and important
enough to the welfare and preservation of our way of life to grant priorities for the construction of nine new Masonic Temples in California,
six of which have already received your Committee's approval.
Although this report primarily concerns the work of the Committee
for the current Masonic year, it should be noted that since the end of
hostilities of World War II, thirty new Masonic Temples have been
built or are now being built in California. The great majority of them
have been built with the aid of membership donated labor, and only
three or four of the Lodges have found it necessary to resort to a small
amount of outside financing to complete their temples. All the other
Temple properties are owned free and clear. In this connection it is
worthy to report that the Boards of Directors of the thirty Temple Associations concerned have discovered that the same vision, faith, courage
and intelligence employed in the building of these Lodge homes are required in the operation of them. Most of the new Temples are going
concerns, paying their way. and in most every instance are centers of
comm.unity activities. Naturally. wherever Masons have banded together
to build a Temple with their own hands, there has been a renaissance
of fundamental Masonic spirit, welding all together in stronger ties of
brotherly love and affection.
Despite the Temple building activity of recent years, there remains
throughout California a critical lack of proper housing for Masonic
Lodges. For this reason, many lodges lacking adequate financial re-

GRAND LODGE OF CALlfORNIA

205

sources and desiring to create long range programs to acquire necessary
funds for future building i)rograms, have appealed to your Committee
for permission to purchase building sites. and to incorporate hall associations to be used as vehicles for raising funds and for handling the
building and management of Temple properties. Your Committ~e·s
attitude has been to cooperate to the fullest extent. at the same time
pointing out the pitfalls of hastily conceived and inadequately financed
building programs, and the tremendous responsibility of operating and
maintaining Temple properties after they have been completed.
Your Committee deems it a real privilege to have been able to grant
permission to commence construction on several new Masonic Temples
in California this year. It is a further pleasure to report that the financing
of all of these buildings will require no fixed debt, aside from the noninterest bearing loan made by the Lodge to its own Temple Association.
Pursuant to the policy of your Committee, consent has been granted to
commence the construction of these new Masonic Temples with the
stipulation that no liabilities be incurred beyond those currently approved by the Committee. In every case where consent to begin construction has been granted, cooperation of respective Masonic inspectors has been sought and letters from them certifying that Lodge
rooms are suitable for proper tiling. have been requested. Following
are the organizations which have been granted consent to build new
Masonic Temples:
·
Callayomi Lodge No. 282 and Middletown Masonic Temple Association. Middletown, California.
Colusa Lodge No. 240 and Masonic Hall Association of Colusa.
Colusa. California.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523 and Bellflower Masonic Temple Association. Bellflower, California.
Vista Lodge No. 687 and Vista Masonic Temple Association, Vista,
California.
Point Loma L~dge No. 620 and Point Loma Masonic Temple Association, Inc., San Diego.
Oceanside Lodge No. 381 and Oceanside Masonic Temple Association, Inc., Oceanside, California.
A resume' of other activities of the Committee during the past year
follows: Ponderosa Lodge No. 700, Fresno, was granted consent to incorporate a Temple association to be known as Ponderosa Temple Association, for the raising of funds, and for the purpose of purchasing.
holding in ownership and operating certain improved properties to be
used for a meeting place for said Lodge.
R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616, Seal Beach, was granted consent to form
the Seal Beach Masonic Building Association, and received permission
to transfer $1 ,270.27 from Building Trustees fund to the Temple Association for regular or voting memberships.

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Glendale Lodge No. 544, Glendale, receiyed approval of Articles of
Incorporation and By-Laws of Glendale Masonic Temple Association
and permission to invest $100 from Lodge general funds in regular membership of the Association.
El Cajon Lodge No. 576, El Cajon was granted consent to form the
El Cajon Masonic Temple Association and permission to invest $100
from Lodge general fund in regular membership of Association.
Seafaring Lodge No. 708, Costa Mesa was granted consent to incorporate the Seafaring Masonic Temple Association, and permission to
invest $500.00 from Lodge funds in regular memberships of said corporation.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, Huntington Beach. This Lodge
granted consent to incorporate the Huntington Beach Masonic Building
Association, permission to transfer title to a building site in Huntington
Beach from the Lodge to the building Association, and consent to the
investment of $5.000.00 of Lodge funds in regular membe.rships of said
building association.
San Clemente Lodge No. 671, San Clemente, received approval of
Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of the San Clemente Masonic
Temple Association: permission to invest $25 from Lodge general funds
in a regular membership of the Association: and consent to transfer title
of a certain piece of real estate in San Clemente to the Association in exchange for an adequate number of voting memberships in said Association.
Westchester Lodge No. 703, Los Angeles. This Lodge was granted
consent to incorporate the Westchester Masonic Building Association,
and consent to transfer $3.600.00 from Lodge general funds in exchange
for regular or voting memberships in the Association.
Liberty Lodge No. 299, Santa Clara, received approval of Articles of
Incorporation and By-Laws of Masonic Hall Corporation of Santa
Clara.
Fairview Lodge No. 629, Los Angeles, was granted consent to the
formation of the Fairview Masonic Building Association, and granted
permission to invest $100.00 from Lodge general funds in regular membership of the Association.
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632, San Diego, received approval of the
Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Normal Heights Masonic
Temple Association, as well as permission to invest $100.00 from Lodge
general funds in regular membership of the Association.
Olivet Lodge No. 205, Corning, was granted consent to form the
Olivet Masonic Building Association, and received permission to invest
$100.00 from Lodge funds in a regular membership of the building association.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

207

San Pedro Lodge No. 332 and A. F. E. Irwin ·L odge No. 645, were
granted consent to incorporate a new Masonic Temple Association to be
known as the San Pedro Masonic Temple Association.
Damascus Lodge No. 648, San Bernardino, received approval of
Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Damascus Building Asso..;
ciation, and permission to invest $100.00 from Lodge funds in a regular
membership of the Association.
Paci.Be Grove Lodge No. 331 and Pacific Grove Masonic Temple ·
Association was granted Committee consent to complete the construction of its new Temple in Pacific Grove. and received Committee approval of a loan in the amount of $21.000.00 at 5% interest to be amortized over a period of twenty years. This approval was given after showing had been made that the original plans of the Temple Building and
upon which a zone variance was granted, contained the addition of three
commercial rentals. and upon the further showing that the project would
be self-liquidating and does not fasten a lien on the Lodge hall itself.
North Hollywood Lodge No. 542 and North Hollywood Masonic
Temple Association received permission to borrow $20,000.00 at 4%
interest, payable at the rate of $200.00 per month. The money to be used
to complete the new Masonic Temple in North Hollywood. ·
Liberty Lodge No. 209 and Masonic Hall Corporation of Santa
Clara, received consent to purchase a Masonic building site in Santa
Clara for $10,500.00 plus title fees.
.
Culver City Lodge No. 467 v:ras given consent to loan $3,000.00 at
4% interest from Lodge general funds to the Masonic Temple Association of Culver City for the purpose of retiring a loan owed to the Security
First National"Bank of Culver City.
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481, San Francisco, received consent to enter into a five year lease for Lodge quarters, at a rental rate of $200 per
month.
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, North Sacramento, received
consent to transfer $1,000.00 from Lodge general funds to the Masonic
Hall Association of North Sacramento, for the purpose of reducing the
indebtedness on its Lqdge hall building.
Olivet Lodge No. 205 and Olivet Masonic Building Association
were granted consent to purchase the property it now occupies in the
City of Coming, for $20,000.00. The purchase was financed by contributions by the members in the amount of $20,700.00 which will be repaid
out of estimated income from the property, at the discretion of the Board
of Directors of the Masonic Temple Association.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547 and Arcadia Masonic Temple Association
received consent to transfer $4,000.00 from Lodge general funds to the
Association for the purpose of purchasing an improved property adjoining the present Temple site in the City of Arcadia. A request to increase

208

209

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the par value of present stock in the Association owned by Arcadia
Lodge in the amount of $4,000.00 was approved.
Mission Lodge No. 169 and Mission Lodge Masonic Hall Association were granted consent to expend $6,750.00 for improvements to Mission Masonic Temple in San Francisco.
Glendale Lodge No. 544 was granted consent to loan $30,000.00
from ·Lodge general funds to the Glendale Masonic Temple Association
at a nominal rate of interest, the money to be used for the purchase of a
certain improved property in the City of Glendale. Consent was also
granted to the Temple Association to convert the property to lodge purposes through the sale of contributing memberships and donated labor.
Temple City Lodge No. 612 and Temple City Masonic Association
were granted consent to borrow $10,000 at 4% interest to be repaid in
installments of $100.00 or more per month. It was shown that the money
was necessary to complete the new Masonic Temple in Temple City,
while estimated income indicated sufficient revenue to carry the obliga-

Palm Springs Lodge No. 693 and Palm Springs Masonic Temple
Association received approval of a lease for Lodge quarters in Palm
Springs for a period of five years for a yearly rental rate of $1.000.00.
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670 and Greenleaf Masonic Temple Association were granted consent to borrow $20,000.00 at 5 % interest, payable ·
at the rate of $200.00 per month. The money to be used to complete a
new Masonic Temple in Whittier.
Nicolaus ·Lodge No. 129 was granted consent to loan $700.00 to the
Masonic Hall Association for the purpose of making roof and other
repairs.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292 was granted permission to invest $432.50
from Lodge general funds in regular memberships of the Los Gatos
Masonic Hall Corporation.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400 was permitted to transfer $1,500 from
Lodge general funds to the Burlingame Masonic Hall Association for
the purpose of reducing the outstanding debt on the Temple property in
Burlingame.
George Washington Lodge No. 525 was granted permission to transfer $5,000.00 from Lodge general funds to the George Washington Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of improving the Temple property in San Francisco.
Temple City Lodge No. 612 received consent to loan $2.650.00 to
the Temple City Masonic Temple Association, evidenced by a noninterest bearing promissory note. The money to be used in the finishing
of the new Masonic Temple.
The Gardens Lodge No. 621 was permitted to invest $6,000.00 from
its gentral fund in regular memberships of the East Los Angeles Temple
Association. Consent was also granted to the said Association to convert its property on Olympic Boulevard in Los Angeles to Lodge uses.
Fairview Lodge No. 629 and Fairview Masonic Temple Association,
Los Angeles, received approval of a five year lease with the Mesa Investment Company for Lodge quarters at a rental rate of $211.50 per
month.
Bell Lodge No. 483 requested and was granted consent to invest
$7,000.00 from its general fund in regular memberships of the Bell Masonic Temple Association. The money was needed to aid in the building
of a new Masonic temple in Bell.
Buckeye Lodge No. 195, Winters, was granted permission to increase its loan with the Bank of America from $6,664.86 to $14,250.00.
The money to be used to remodel the ground floor of the Lodge property
for use as a branch of the United States Postofflce.
Smyrna Lodge No. 532 and Ceres Masonic Building Association
were permitted to buy an improved property in Ceres to be converted to
use as a Lodge hall for the sum· of $9,000.00. Financing to be accomplished through the sale of lots owned free and clear by the temple asso-

~L

•

.

Caledonia Lodge No. 486, Bakersfield, received consent to purchase
300 shares of Caledonia Building Association Stock, par value $10.00,
the money to be used for the purchase of a rug and other improvements
to the Temple property.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373 and 373 Builders' Club, received
consent to purchase a temple building site in West Los . Angeles for
$7,500.00
Ponderosa Lodge No. 700 and Ponderosa Temple Association received consent to purchase an improved property in Fresno for $30,000.00, and was permitted to expend $3,000.00 to convert the improvements to Lodge use. Financing was accomplished through the sale of
contributing memberships in the Temple Association in the amount of
$10,000.00 and a $20,000.00 loan at 4% interest to be repaid through
further contributions from members and out of revenue from the Temple
property.
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 was permitted to invest $5,000.00
from Lodge general funds in regular memberships of the Angeles Mesa
Masonic Temple Association, the money to be used to complete a new
Masonic Temple in Los Angeles.
Burbank Lodge No. 406, was permitted to invest $32,000.00 from
Lodge. g~neral funds in voting stock of the Burbank Masonic Building
Association; and consent was granted to the said building Association
to purchase the Temple property at 248 East Olive Avenue, Burbank,
for $75,000.00 payable $30,000.00 down and the balance at the rate of
$450.00 per month, including interest at the rate of 5% per annum. Consent was granted on the showing that the obligation could be reasonably
met out of income from the property.

210

211

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ciation, and through the sale of contributing memberships in said association.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546 requested and was permitted to invest
$2.000.00 of Lodge general funds in regular memberships of the San
Gabriel Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of completing the
new temple in San Gabriel.
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 was permitted to invest $5,000.00 in
regular memberships of the Angeles Mesa Masonic Temple Association
and to tran sfer $2,048.06 bequeathed to the Lodge from the estate of
George Henry to the said association, all of which money was proposed
to be used to aid in the completion of the new Masonic Temple -in Los
Angeles.
Glassell Park Lodge No. 605 received consent in invest $10,000.00
in regular memberships of the Glassell Park Masonic Temple Association; and the said association was permitted to purchase a Masonic
Temple in Los Angeles for the sum of $32,500.00. The purchase of the
property is to be financed through the sale of a building site owned free
and clear by the Temple Association, and through the sal~ of contributing memberships in the said Association.
. Fairfax Lodge No. 566 and Fairfax Masonic Temple Association
were permitted to acquire a temple building site in the City of Larkspur
for the sum of $3,000.00. ·
San Bernardino Masonic Temple Association was permitted to expend $10,000.00 to improve the front elevation of its temple in San
Bernardino.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400 was permitted to invest $3.500.00 from its
general fund to purchase additional stock in the Burlingame Masonic
Hall Association. The money to be used to reduce outstanding debt of
the temple property.
Clay Lodge No. 101 was permitted to expend $3.500.00 from Lodge
general funds to make improvements in the lodge hall in Dutch Flat.
Fontana Lodge No. 653 requested and was granted permission· to invest $5,000.00 from its general fund in regular memberships of the New
Fontana Masonic Temple Association. Money was needed to aid in the
completion of a new Masonic Temple in Fontana.
San Carlos Lodge No. 690 was granted permission to invest $1,000.00 from Lodge general funds in regular memberships of the San
Carlos Masonic Hall Association.
Yosemite Lodge No. 99, received consent to expend $10,652.00 for
repairing and refinishing the lodge rooms, restrooms and club room of its
Masonic temple in the City of Merced.
·
St. Helena Lodge No. 93 received approval of a five-year lease,
between St. Helena Lodge and Frank Lucas, et ux. for ·Lodge quarters,
at a rate of $50.00 per month, plus a water charge and other considerations.

Whittier Masonic Temple Association was permitted to spend $12.000.00 of Association funds for repairing and renovating the grou~d
floor and the kitchen of the Lodge building, located in the City of Whittier.
John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657 requested and was granted consent
to transfer $10,000.00 from Lodge general funds in exchange for regular
memberships in the John D. Spreckels Masonic Temple Associatio~; ~nd
the said temple association was permitted to purchase a temple building
site in the City of San Diego for $15,000.00.
Florence Lodge No. 649 and Florence Masonic Temple Association
was denied their request for permission to borrow $15,000.00 from the
Bank of America for five years at 5% interest and payable at the monthly
rate of $283.07 per month. The money was proposed to be used to pay
off an obligation owing to one of the members of Florence Lodge. It is
gratifying to be able to report that the full amount necessary to pay the
obligation was raised through the sale of contributing memberships in
the Temple Association to more than one hundred and seventy-five members of Florence Lodge.
.
The Committee files show correspondence, with more than fifty other
Lodges in respect to lodge financing problems, which does not appear in
this report. In none of these cases was permission given to expend any

fun~~ur Committee recommends that an appropriation of $800.00 be
made to cover necessary expense for the ensuing year.
The Committee has received the fullest cooperation from officers ":nd
members of the several lodges and temple associations in the presentation
of their problems having to do with lodge fina~cin~. On behalf of your
Committee deep appreciation for such cooperation 1s here expressed. To
the corps of inspectors who have worke~ so .closely and harmon~ously
with us in the prosecution of the Committee s duties, we also wish to
express our gratitude.
The Chairman of your Committee owes so much to the o~her members of the Committee for a fine spirit in the performance of their arduous
duties and their most helpful and unselfish cooperation. May God bless
them and keep them.
Respectfully submitted.

E. J. BLICKPELDT
WALTER

J. PYBON

DARRELL R. PURCELL
RICHARD A. STEVES
CLINTON T. DuPPY
THOMAS HURLEY

w. HOWARD HARRIS
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

212

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee is pleased to advise you that much interest has
been demonstrated throughout the Jurisdiction in the matter of this
Observance during the year just concluded. The Brethren throughout
the Jurisdiction have responded well to the various requests directed to
them by the Committee, and we wish to take this opportunity to thank
them for their support and interest. The Inspectors of the various districts were also of considerable assistance, and we wish to express our
thanks to them.
The reports received from the Lodges to date indicate a total of 112
open meetings, at which there was an attendance of 15,270 in addition
to 296 closed meetings which were attended by 20, l 43. This makes a
total of 408 meetings, with a reported total attendance of 35,413.
In view of the fact that Constitution Month Observance in California
has now become an accepted tradition, which is due in large part to the
efforts of this Grand Lodge, your Com1J1.ittee is of the opinion that there
should be a reorganization of the activities of the Committee in order to
permit its work to become more effective. We especially make reference
to the efforts of Grand Master Paulsen to standardize the work of
committees of this sort, and to co-ordinate their efforts in order that
the maximum results might be obtainable. We make particular reference
to this report, and request that it be given serious consideration by future
committees to whom is designated the purpose of this Committee.
Your Committee is also of the opinion that its efforts should not be
confined entirely to the month of September, but that an effort should
be made throughout the entire year to acquaint the members of the
Fraternity with its work and procedure. We suggest also that some
thought be given to the preparation of a booklet by the Grand Lodge
for distribution to the membership, which booklet should contain the
Constitution of the United States, the Declaration of Independence,
and other similar documents, together with the necessary introduction
and comments. In this way, your Committee is of the opinion that the
full import of Constitution Month Observance will be impressed upon
the Fraternity generally.
Your Committee has experienced some little difficulty in securing
sufficient speakers of ability to acquaint the membership with the Constitution and its position in our body politic, and it is our further suggestion that an effort be made to further co-ordinate the efforts of the
Committee along the lines of securing a list of capable speakers who
might be available to the various Subordinate Lodges throughout the
State. We note, however, the increased interest that is manifest through-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

213

out the State on the part of the Subordinate Lodges in observing the
birth of the Constitution. This augers well for the future, for the Constitution of the United States has been a powerful force in the lives of
all of the people of the world, and of all generations of people ever since
its adoption. Ours is ·a government of laws and not of men. With such
a system jof government and law established in the world, even though
only one nation enjoyed it and prospered under it, no aspiration for a
similar way of life in any part of the world is futile-and it is the worldwide understanding and appreciation of that fact which has given
universal importance to the Constitution of the United States ever since
its adoption.
As America faces the future let us pause to recollect that the farseeing vision of our constitutional fathers resulted in an instrument of
government which no foe of human rights has penetrated and survival
of which has met every challenge to the natural rights of man. Our
Fraterntiy is to be commended for the efforts it has heretofore expended
in acquainting the peoples of this State with the provisions of this
immortal document. Our most formidable fortress of defense in time
of stress still remains the Constitution of the United States.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM R. McKAY
JAMES T. FRASER
LEET. MULLEN
DUDLEY H. NEBECKER
WILLIAM P. SELF

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC INFORMATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Information reports as follows:
Your Committee has continued its policy of progressing slowly as
indicated in its report of 1947. the policy of observing the results of one
step before taking another. Four years have been occupied in issuing,
with the approval of Grand Lodge, the four booklets now ~eing presented to all candidates: the Address to the Candidate: the Book of the
Entered Apprentice, the Book of the Fellow Craft, and the Book of the
Master Mason. These have given general satisfaction and it is believed
that they have accomplished, in part at least, their objective of gain~ng
the interest of the Candidate and of giving him considerable information
about the Fraternity.
Last year, your Committee presented for approval a manuscript en-

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

titled "707 Questions and Answers about Freemasonry," which was
ref erred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, with the intention that such Committee would have a year to review that manuscript before making its recommendation to Grand Lodge at this present
Communication. It is well to repeat what was said in the last annual report of your Committee, that questions and answers are only questions
and answers; they have their shortcomings; but they do fill a want in
many quarters, because they present facts in a way which is more helpful to some than if set forth in solid expository form.

that time, it has failed to educate its members on phases which it now
thinks important, it is not likely to do so by any quick process or short
easy procedure.

The volume of this proposed publication is rather great, approximately 100 pages, and may impress some as excessive, but the thought
behind it is that such a book will serve as a permanent text-book to be
used in educational work by the lodges, for it is probable that the most
active program of instruction would not exhaust these 707 Questions and
Answers in less than two or three years, at the end of which they may be
repeated with as much value as before.
The Questions and Answers are divided into various subjects, such
as History, Masonic Literature, Rituals, the Three Degrees, Rites of
Freemasonry, Masonic Jurisprudence, Freemasonry and Religion, Freemasonry and Roman Catholicism, Freemasonry and Mormonism and
Miscellaneous. The subject of History is broken down into the subheads
of the Origin of Freemasonry, the Gothic Operative Era, the Transition into Speculative Masonry, the Foundation of the Grand Lodge of
England, European Masonry. the division into Ancients and Moderns,
arid Freemasonry in America. All of the Answers are intended to be
factual and accurate and to reflect the conclusions of the most reliable
modem authorities.

It is embarrassing to have to admit that there is not now available a
single, short, readable and reliable history of Freemasonry in print. Four
and seven volume works are likely to discourage the beginner and shorter
works have either been incomplete or have, one by one, retired to the
shelves of second hand book stores. Accordingly, the next undertaking
planned by your Committee is an Essay on Freemasonry which will give
a comprehensive view of the subject in about 150 pages. The size and
nature of the work is such, however, that its presentation to Grand
Lodge will probably be accompanied by the recommendation that it be
distributed at a _price which will return the cost of printing.
At the present day, people, including Freemasons, are disposed to
be impatient, to ask for quick, easy solutions of their problems; those who
want to buckle down to hard work and patient and sustained effort are
the exceptions. It must be remembered that Freemasonry is not a simple
subject; it is the development of several centuries and the work of many
hands. The Grand Lodge of California is now a century old, and, if in

215

Those who really want to understand the problem and to find a solution for it, should first enquire what has been the experience of this
Grand Lodge in its attempts to promote Masonic Education. It is available in Committee reports and Grand Masters' reports, appearing in
Grand Lodge proceedings over the past 36 years. If one has not the time
for such research, one may again read the 1947 report of your Committee where that experience was digested. Since 1915, no less than six
different plans have been tried. Again and again programs started with
zeal and enthusiasm came, in a few years, to complete stops. The first
of these occupied ten years; the second, seven years; the third, five years;
the fourth, three years; the fifth, eight years, and the present plan, beginning in 1947 is now completing its fourth year.
It is based on the fundamental thought that the few weeks while the
candidate is receiving his degrees and when he is in a receptive, enquiring and curious frame of mind, is the critical period when Masonic
information will be avidly absorbed; that this should be a rputine procedure like the instructions in the candidate's lectures; and that whatever
is imparted should be material previously approved by Grand Lodge.
An educational program, if it accomplishes anything, must involve much
effort on the part of the lodges. Some lodges may not care to make this
effort, but those which adopt and consistently follow a set program will
find that it provides work for more members and keeps them interested
in the lodge. lq time, but not immediately, it will provide us with a membership much better informed on the character and purposes of Freemasonry.
Your Committee wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the
helpful cooperation of the Most Worshipful Grand Secretary and his
Assistant in attending to the printing and distribution of the literature
issued by your Committee. At the last Annual Communication, the Committee on Finance, instead of appropriating funds directly for your Committee's printing, added the amount to the printing appropriation of the
Grand Secretary, thus increasing his burdens. Your Committee wishes
the Grand Secretary to know that your Committee was not accessory
before the fact, but, now that it has been done, your Committee approves
of it.
Your Committee recommends:
1. That, subject to approval by Grand Lodge of the "707 Questions
and Answers about Freemasonry," $5,000 be appropriated or added to
the Grand Secretary's printing appropriation for the publication of this
book; that copies thereof be distributed free to each lodge in number
approximating 1 % of the membership of such lodge, with a minimum of

216

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3 copies to each lodge; and that additional copies be sold to lodges or
members at approximately the cost to be estimated by the Grand Secretary.
2. That your Committee be continued, and that there be appropriated, for the general expense of your Committee during the ensuing Masonic year, the sum of $500.

217

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1951
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain offered the morning prayer.

Respectfully submitted,
HENRY w. COIL
ALVIN WENDT
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE

The minutes of the morning and afternoon session of Tuesday. October 9 were read and approved.
The Most Worshipful H~ry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary of Oregon, at the invitation of the Grand Master, favored the
Grand Lodge with an address.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Most Worshipful Harold N. Nelsen, Grand Master of Masons
in Washington, and the Most Worshipful Ralph S. Nesbitt, Grand
Master of Masons in Oregon, at the invitation of the Grand Master, each
favored the Grand Lodge with an address.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DE MOLAY
.To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is the 5th Annual Report of the Committee on De Molay. This
Committee has carefully followed the plan which was approved by our
Grand Lodge in 1946, namely:
"It is a plan of education and coordination rather than one of sponsorship. Our plan would create a group of men who would act as coordinators between De Molay and Masonry in our State. From time to
time they would be authorized to bring to our Lodges the message and
needs of De Molay. to enlist the aid of men who would be willing to
assist in the t11ork and to keep a watchful eye on the activities of De
Molay. Finally they would report annually to Grand Lodge the progress
of that Order in California." ·
The work of your Committee on De Malay is progressing satisfactorily, yet each member feels there is so ·much to be done to cause
Masons individually to become more interested in this excellent program for youth which the De Malay offers. The need is still great for
active advisors who are capable and interested.
The Chairman of this Committee from its inception was Charles E.
Ustenwalter of Los Angeles, under whose competent and loving leadership the group has worked in harmony.
Brother Listenwalter found it best, after many, many years of
Masonic service, not to continue such a heavy work schedule and, therefore, requested the Most Worshipful Grand Master to release him from
this committee. This was done with regret.
There have been two additions to the Committee, Brothers Edwin
R. Brooks of Richmond and Alvin E. Clark of Sacramento, whose territory is from Oakland and Sacramento to the Oregon border. They are
getting excellent results in that area.

At 4.15 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 A.M. Wednesday morning.

•I

:1

I

218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We should particularly note the healthy growth of De Malay in the
San Francisco-Oakland bay area under the guidance and zeal of
Brother Carl 0. Olsen, Active Member, Grand Council and Deputy
for Northern California, whose program was outlined in last year's
report. These plans are being carried out with several new ones added.
The Committee notes with interest the report of Brother Kay V.
Smith of the San Diego area where the Masonic Officers Association
of that county set aside the third week in February as De Malay Week,
wherein the membership of all lodges of that Association were urged to
attend a De Malay meeting during that period. The report further
showed a most favorable response.
Your De Molay Committee would again suggest to you that you
invite a Chapter to visit your lodge and exemplify a De Malay degree.
It has been found through past experience that many of your members
enjoy meetfog and seeing our youth in action.
The committee members mentioned in this report, as well as Brothers
Moyers of Fresno, Butterfield of Riverside, Honaker of Compton, Flierl
of Hayward, and Peters of Los Angeles are most anxious to be of assistance to you or your lodge in carrying out the plan as originally adopted.
We recommend the continuance of the committee of ten, as previously approved by the Grand Lodge and that the sum of $750 be
appropriated to cover its necessary expenses for the coming year.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS

Respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND

s. KIMBELL

THURMAN D. MOYERS
KAY

v. SMITH

F. HAROLD BurrERFIELD
HENRY HONAKER
WALTER FLIERL
FRANCIS D. PETERS
EDWIN R. BROOKS
ALVIN E. CLARK

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

219

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Cal.ifomia:
Your Committee on By-Laws have carefully examined the one
hundred and eleven amendments to By-Laws submitted during the past
year. It is apparent that Masters are continuing to give attention to the
By-Laws of their Lodges and the necessary amendments are presented,
adopted and sent to Grand Lodge for approval.
In 1946 our Committee called attention to the error of including the
contribution to the Masonic Homes in the amount of the fees charged for
the Degrees, or in the affiliation fee. We feel that our urging in the
Committee reports, that study be given to the By-Laws of the Lodges,
has brought about a much better condition in this respect. The Committee's work has increased considerably, but it has been worthwhile.
In 1943, thirty-eight amendments were submitted-1944 ninetyone-1945 eighty-one-1946 one hundred and ten-1947 two hundred
and forty-one-1948 two hundred and eighteen-1950 fifty-eight-and
this year as stated--one hundred and eleven.
A noted baseball manager said that if there were no errors, the game
would lose much of its interest to the spectators. In all operations
whether fraternal or business, errors occur. It has been the policy of the
Grand Secretary's office to assist in every way possible to see that the
amendments when finally submitted, were proper as to form. In reviewing the amendments we have followed this same policy. Errors that
were inadvertently overlooked by the Grand Secretary and the Grand
Master, we have in many cases, been able to correct in conference with
the Lodge representatives in attendance at the Grand Lodge. We have
never emphasized these problems. In 1947 we did report-"During the
past year one Lodge discovered that its By-Laws stated and required
a certain amount for the Three Degrees. For a number of years this
Lodge had only been charging approximately one-half this amount. A
number of other mistakes came to light this year concerning other
Lodges.
"Our Committee join with the Grand Secretary in urging a careful
reading of the By-Laws by Lodge Officers. The Installation Ceremony
instructs the Master to see that the By-Laws of his Lodge are strictly
complied with. H~ should read them carefully when he takes office."
It is further our recollection about then we learned that two Lodges
were unable to find their By-Laws as they had been missing for some
years. How they complied with the requirement that every person
Raised to the Degree of Master Mason in the Lodge, oi elected to be a
member thereof, shall sign its By-Laws, is a mystery. They promptly
adopted a new set of By-Laws.
In 1948 we worked out corrections as to the minimum amount to be
charged for the Degrees. No emphasis has been directed to By-Laws

220 .

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

sent back to a Lodge for correct action. Ross' Digest contains a form of
certificate which was prepared to assist in making the amendments to
By~Laws, and we feel that the results accomplished have been helpful
and corrected situations that needed attention.
This year we have corrected errors in amendments submitted as to
dates. errors in stating the correct amount of money where there was a
variance in the amendments. certificates not signed by the Secretary.
etc. Ross' Digest supports a ruling of Grand Master Filmer ( 1913) that
an increase of dues adopted. does not take effect until the end of that
quarter. Two amendments involve this point. One amendment had been
approved as to the prior effect of the increase. and the other held with
Ross' Digest that it could not take effect until the end of the quarter.
We have approved both amendments, but on condition that the increase
takes effect at the end of the quarter.
Two amendments read "and for affiliation the sum of Ten Dollars,
except that the affiliation fee shall be Ten Dollars if the demit accompanying the application is issued by this Lodge or a Lodge of this jurisdiction." The correspondence and our conferences clarified the fact
that the Lodge means an affiliation fee of the same amount, for all
Brothers affiliating with the Lodge whether of this jurisdiction or any
other jurisdiction. Even though strangely worded the purpose is proper
and we have approved the amendments.
The Grand Master applied common sense and good judgment and
granted a request to change the meeting place of a Lodge although all
technical by-law requirements could not be met. The question is now
mute and the proper result was accomplished. Our Committee concur in
the action followed by the Grand Master.
All the amendments are listed here as in the Grand Secretary's Report except four-San Pasquale No. 452, Charter Rock No. 410, Sisson
No. 310, and Vallee de France No. 329.
With the corrections made we now approve all the amendments to
the By-Laws submitted as being proper, certified and in accordance with
masonic law. They also have the approval of the Grand Master and the
Grand Secretary.
AMENDMENTS TO

BY~LAWS

Increasing fees: Hawaiian No. 21, to $175.00; Trinity No. 27, to
$125.00; Suisun No. 55, to $75.00; Calaveras No. 78, to $85.00; Lex~
ington No. 104, to $150.00; Vacaville No. 134. to $75.00; Wilmington
No. 198. to $100.00; Winnedumah No. 287, to $75.00; Los Gatos No.
292. to $75.00: South Gate No. 320. to $100.00; Sequoia No. 349, to
$100.00; Hollywood No. 355. to $125.00; le Progres de l'Oceanie No.
371. to $175.00; Huntington Beach No. 380, to $75.00; Honolulu No.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

221

409, to $175.00; Bell No. 483, to $100.00: Ionic No. 520. to $175.00;
Beverly Hills No. 528. to $125.00; Park Boulevard No. 568, to $100.00;
Garden Grove No. 586. to $75.00: The Gardens No. 621, to $100.00;
Alta Loma No. 643. to $100.00: Hawthorne No. 647, to $100.00; Cre~
centa Valley No. 652. to $100.00: Gleenleef No. 670, to $100.00.
Decreasing fees: Fruitvale No. 336, to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: California No. 1, to $20.00: Hollywood
No. 355. to $15.00; Ionic No. 520. to $25.00: Beverly Hills No. 528,
to $10.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Palm Springs No. 693. to $5.00; Hunters
Point Naval No. 706, to $1.00.
Abolishing affiliation fee: Suisun No. 55, King Solomon's No. 260,
South Park No. 563.
Increasing dues: Alamo No. 122, to $15.00; Pentalpha No. 202, to
$15.00; Doric No. 216, to $15.00; Bakersfield No. 224, to $15.00; Brooklyn No. 225, to $15.00; Colusa No. 240, to $18.00; King Solomon's No.
260, to $18.00: Selma No. 277, to $15.00; Elsinore No. 289. to $15.00;
Los Gatos No. 292, to $18.00: Vallee de France No. 329. to $15.00:
San Pedro No. 332. to $15.00; Fruitvale No. 336, to $16.00; Sequoia
No. 349, to $15.00; San Francisco No. 360, to $15.00; Amity No. 370,
to $18.00; Francis Drake No. 376, to $18.00; Fairmount No. 435, to
$15.00: Libertas No. 466. to $15.00; Acorn No. 494, to $15.00; Fremont
No. 497. to $16.00; Mount Vernon No. 517. to $18.00; Piedmont No.
521, to $15.00; Lakeshore No. 551. to $18.00: Educator No. 554. to
$15.00; Plymouth No. 560. to $15.00; Harding No. 584, to $15.00: Carmelita No. 599, to $16.00; Dimond No. 603, to $15.00; Elmhurst No.
610. to $16.00;'Ingleside No. 630. to $18.00; Lomita No. 644, to $15.00;
Menlo Park No. 651, to $15.00; Far West No. 673. to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Suisun No. 55: Evening Star No.
186; Moneta No. 405; Lincoln No. 470; South Park No. 563; Military
Service No. 570: Southland No. 618: Ponderosa No. 700.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Readiiig No. 254.
Providing for holiday meetings: Concord No. 117: West Gate No.
335; Pinole No. 353; Parnassus No. 388; Inglewood No. 421; Golden
Rule No. 479.
· Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Lassen No. 149; Los Altos
U.D.; Castro Valley U .D.; Blue Lakes U.D.; Magnolia Park U.D.
Miscellaneous: Culver City No. 467.
RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Fruitvale No. 336: Moneta
No. 405; Atascadero No. 493; El Segundo No. 507: North Hollywood
No. 542; South Park No. 563; Foothill No. 564; Military Service No.
570; Elmhurst No. 610; Southland No. 618; The Gardens No. 621;

222

223

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Angeles Mesa No. 625; Greenleaf No. 670; Vista No. 687; Ponderosa
No. 700; Westchester No. 703.
We recommend the adoption of this report approving the amendments set forth therein.
Respectfully submitted,
OAKLEY K. MORTON
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY
STEWART B. ANDREWS
WM. W.McKEE
ROBERT C. PEYTON
WAYNE GLEASON
WALTER HERMAN

Adopted

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
The portion of the report requesting an appropriation was referred
to the Committee on Finance.
The complete r~port .will be found in the General Appendix.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Credentials makes the report that of 607 Chartered Lodges, 572 are represented.
·
That all four of the Lodges under dispensation are represented.
That the total registration is as follows:
Past Grand Masters..-................................................... 17
Officers and Representatives........................................ 911
Past Masters ................................................................ 966
Master Masons ····················-······································· 55
Distinguished Guests ...........................•...................... 15

...-Total ....."···· .. ··-~·-··· ..·······-··"'······-···-···············•·'V'•I.964
Respectfully submitted,

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Special Committee on Memorial Building continued its work as
instructed by this Grand Lodge. The complexion of the Committee's
thinking of necessity is altered by economic conditions and Government
restrictions which prevent construction of buildings for Fraternal use.
We have continued to track down every lead we get and it has developed a substantial record for continued consideration. We have under
consideration at this time several parcels of land with improvements
presently on them. To thoroughly investigate these properties takes
time and much effort for we are not only faced with the possible cost of
demolition but your Committee is giving full consideration to the possi- .
bility of rebuilding an old structure for our use. While there are several
properties that could be made suitable to comply with the recommendations as stated by this Grand Lodge in 1948, 1949 and 1950, we are not
ready to recommend any single parcel. We, therefore, recommend that
the Memorial Buildin~ Committee be continued and that this Grand
Lodge, at this Session, consider the following recommendations:
1. Because of the continued growth of this Grand Lodge an
effort be made to hold the next five Annual .Communications, commencing with the year 1952, in the San Francisco Civic Auditorium, or some other suitable meeting place, subject to approval
of the Grand Master.
2. That this Grand Lodge vote a 50c per member annual per
capita tax for the purpose of establishing a Memorial Building Fund
so that when building restrictions are lifted and it is determined to
proceed with a Memorial Building sufficient funds will be on hand
to be able to adequately finance such a project.
3. That should future conditions or circumstances develop
which would make it unwise to proceed with such a project as a
result of facilities becoming available to this Grand Lodge through
some other means or program of planning that the Memorial Building Fund referred to in number 1 above revert to the general funds
of Grand Lodge, thus, in effect, increasing reserves for contingencies or reducing future per capita assessments.
Respectfully submitted,

Loms SuTTER

EDWARD H. SIEMS

WILBUR D. CROSBY

}AMES HURST

THOMAS F. MASON
KENT 0. SEYMOUR
OTIS G. PRUSSEL
DONALD H. WILKINS
WILLIAM E. BOUTON

HENRY

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

J. BRUN NIER

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON MASO NIC IDST ORY

His~rye Povbl~ thti~t thbis dr~pohrt be adopte d and the committee on Mason
ic
u 1ca on e 1sc arged.

224

PUBL ICAT ION
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Mason ic Histor y Publication wishes to presen
t
its final report on the publication of One Hundr ed Years of Free
Masonry in Califor nia.
Specifications were prepar ed and submitted to four printer s in San
Franci sco and two in Los Angele s for bids on two thousa nd sets.
Griffin Brothe rs of San Francisco being low with a bid of $32,72
0
were awarde d the contract. A performance bond of $17,000 was posted
and work was commenced in March of 1950.
Due to corrections, additio ns and indexin g the books were not completed until Januar y 1951.
In additio n to the origina l bid of $32,720 the following extras were
necess ary:
26 copies over original 2,000..........-········· ·······--$ 457.86
264 extra pages...............................................-... 2,379.60
210 photo engrav ings not covered by contract.. 1,371.67
Author 's change s ................................................. 1,784.70
Makin g a total of.............................:...- •.....-$38,713.83
In order to call this history to the attenti on of the craft it was necessary for your· committee to prepar e a brochure, a subscription card
and
self-ad dressed envelope which were enclosed in a large envelope,
sealed
and stampe d for first class mail. The total cost of this mailing and
printing including the cost of mailing the sets of books was $14,336.17.
It was throug h the cooperation of the secretaries of the constit uent
lodges that about 200,000 members of the craft of this jurisdiction
received a copy of this mailing. As a result orders were received for
1,652
sets of which 1,327 were accompanied with the full purcha se price.
There
are 359 sets yet to be sold.
Much credit is due to the Grand Secret ary's office for the efficien
t
manne r in which they handle d all orders and kept the record s of all
sales.
We have a letter from the printer stating that he has the type standing for the Histor y and about $4,500 tied up in metal. He wants to
know
what disposition to make of it. He is willing to sell the metal
to the
Grand Lodge or destroy it. Your committee recommends that he destroy
the type.

225

Respectfully submitted,

W. I. KOHNK E
JoHNT . BoND
ELMER LoTz

I~ ~ischargi~g the Committee, the Grand Maste r expres

sed the a preciation of this Grand Lodge for the results accomplished.
p

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of California:
Y ~ur Committee on Pay of Members submits the followin re or
covering the 102nd Annua l Communication of ~rand Lodge: g
p t
tat' Thos~ enti~et to compensation are: the duly accredited Repres
enGr~:~ ~deac
odge, lnsp~ctors, Past Grand Master s, Officers of
ge, and the Chairmen and Memb ers of Committ
mteGrateddinLSdection 68 of the Ordina nces, who are actuall y in
a ran o ge.
·
Compensation of me~bers has been computed on the basis of twice
the one-wa y first class railwa y fare plus Pullma n sleeper wh
sary. As has b
ere neceseen the custom for 'many years, no compe• nsation
is allowed
to
mem!Se
rs
from
San
Francis
co or the imme
whe th
·
d"iate v1cm1ty
· · ·
"b d
or
re e prescr1 e compensation does not exceed $1.00.
'
f
e havHe co~~uted the transpo rtation rates from all points in Caliorma ~nd .awau to San Francisco. We have checked the a roll
with
registration records as submitted to us by the Co
·tpt
y
dthe t"al
c
Th
mm1 ee on reen511 Cs.
e ~mo~nt require d to meet the transpo rtation
costs for the
l9
onvocatlon is as follows:

at::~d::~~

V:'

~ran~ Lodge Officers..........................................$ 819.22
Cast rand Master s............................................
31 7 32
ommittees ..........................................................
975.90
Grand Lect~rers and Inspec tors.......................... 4,048:11
Representatives .................................................. 17,489.59

Total. .............................................................$23,7<>4.14

Hereto fore we have been very thankf ul to Past Master Lo · ~ tt
and the Anglo-Calif~rnia Nation al Bank in making it possibr~sfo:
t~~
mem~rs to ~ash their checks in this building. This
year due to a le al
banking holiday, namely Columbus Day, no checks will be cash~d.

226

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Checks will be ready for distribution following the election of the Junior
Grand Warden Friday in the White Room on the third floor. Checks
not called for will be mailed by the Grand Secretary's Office.
Respectfully submitted,
LoYD C. CAMPBELL
JOHN N. BACIGALUPI
HERBERT N. WAUGH
}AMES L. WARD
J. HOWARD EDWARDS
GORDON R. STEINER
PHILIP M. HEISCH

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

227

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an analysis of the
Consolidated Returns of the Lodges- of this jurisdiction for the year
ending July 31, 1951:
Membership 1950 •.. ,.-....,....................._____ ,-.JI 96,800
Gains
Members raised -·····-····-~---················ 8,909
Affiliated ............................................ 1,941
Restored ............................................ 395
Gained by error..................................
6
Total ····-··-·-········-····..·--------11,251
Losses
Members withdrawn ........................ 1,631
Suspended N. P. D ........_................. 826
Died .................................................... 3,061
Expelled ............................................
29
Loss by ~r......................................
i
Total .............................................. 5,551
Net gain in membership............................................

5,700

Total membership 1951 ................................202,500
Dues remitted .................................... 2,538
New Lodges ......................................
6
Total Lodges .................................... 611
During the past five years there is noted an increase in Suspensions
for non-payment of dues from 367 to 826, nearly 100 per year. This increase despite the large employment and financial condition of our
country.
There is also noted a steady increase in membership withdrawals
froJQ 919 in 1943 to 1.631 in 1951. Members should be impressed with
the sacred ties of Masonry that they should not be willingly destroyed.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY G. MATHEWSON
FRANCIS J. HERZ
WILLIAM G. BUXTON
E. LLOYD HANSON
DAN BossCHART
DESMOND BARTON
RALPH KING

228

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

229

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
MEMORIAL SERVICE

To the.Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
· There has bee~ no change during the past year of the membership
on the Special Taxation Committee.
The Committee has continued to advise subordi~ate lodges and the
committees and various agencies of Grand Lodge respecting their taxation problems. We have given advice to the Boards of Relief and Employment with respect to their voluntarily coming under the Social Security Act, following our report of last year in which we advised that the
Act had been amended to allow charitable institutions to elect to come
under its terms. With respect to such charitable employers, the Social
Security Act is now on the same basis as the State Employment Act
which also allows voluntary acceptance of the Act.
It was expected that there would be many rules issued by the Internal Revenue Department governing and regulating the manner, method
and effect of such voluntary election, but no such rules have yet been
published.
We wish to again remind the subordinate lodges that they must
make a report of all employees (except ritualistic officers) whose wages
are more than $50.00 per calendar quarter for both the State Employment Act and the Federal Social Security Act and to pay the taxes
therefore. We make this observation because we are still r_eceiving reports from some lodges indicating they have never made such reports
and have become subject to penalties.
If there is any appreciable change made in the interpretation of the
amendments to the Social Security Act in the long expected rules and
regulations to be issued, we will make a special report to the Grand
Master.
·
Respectfully submitted,

R. p. WISECARVER
}AMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YoRK

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Wednesday, October 10, 1951, at 11 :00 A. M.
Song: "Save Me By Thy Name" (First Performance) ......Anderson
Carl Hooper: Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
Invocation ..........................................................~.•.......Otancl Chaplain
Report of Committee on Necrology.............R~ C. Bryan, Chairman
Song: "Good~Night"..................................................Smith~Anderson
Eulogy for P.G.M. Frank M. Smith: by P.G.M. Lloyd E. Wilson
Benediction .........................................................- .......Gt~ Chaplain
A Memorial Song: "Taps"...........................................- •.- ...Ca&tance

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
The rapidity with which time passes has been commented upon by
the sages of all ages. Yet the operation of the human mind is such that
each generation must make the discovery for itself. It is startling to us
that it has been such a little while since we last met here. The earth has
completed another revolution around the sun and another year has
passed into immeasurable time.
·
In the brief period of a year the Great Architect of the universe has
seen flt, in his infinite wisdom, to call 270 members of this Grand Lodge
to the Celestjal Lodge above. The majority of our lodges suffered no
loss and for this we are indeed grateful. But the angel of death laid a
heavy hand upon others. Alhambra Lodge No. 322 suffered the greatest
loss-losing six. Three lodges--Washington Lodge No. 20, South Gate
Lodge No. 320, and Willits Lodge No. 353, lost four each. Ten lodges
lost three each; forty-one lodges lost two each and one-hundred-forty
lodges lost one each.
The loyalty and devotion with which men serve this fraternity is
demonstrated by the number of years in which many of our deceased
brethren gave of their time and substance to further its interests. Archibald Thompson Kerr of Chico Lodge No. 111 was a Master Mason for
70 years. Andie Lester Bonham of Valley Lodge No. 135 served for 66
years. Charles Eben Flye of Washington Lodge No. 20 and LeWis
Harmon Barker of Palo Alto ·L odge No. 346 devoted 64 years each to
Masonry. Of those who have passed since our last report 174 served at
least a quarter of a century and 27 served a half century or more.
A cloud of gloom has descended upon one of our oldest and most
respected lodges-Summit Lodge No. 112 of Knights Ferry. In its long
and honorable career this lodge, chartered in 1857, has never had as
many as fifty members, and most of the time less than forty, so the loss

230

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

of even one member was keenly felt. Since the last communication of
this Grand Lodge three of its Past Masters and three of its members have
entered the last sleep, thus losing in one year approximately one-eighth
of its membership. Time does not permit us to give in detail the faithful
work that these brethren have contributed, but our sympathy and understanding go to the brethren of Summit Lodge and our sincere hope that
they will be spared a repetition of such sorrow.

BoYD B. RAKESTRAW

FRANK MACPHERSON SMITH

Death did on April 7, 1951 write the final chapter on the brilliant
career of Past Grand Master Frank M. Smith, who died at his Pasadena
home, 765 Old Mill Road, after weeks of illness.
Serving this Grand Lodge during one of the most trying periods of
its history, he made a record that it will be difficult to surpass.
Later in this Memorial Service the Most Worshipful Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, will deliver a special eulogy to the memory of
this beloved friend and distinguished Mason.
ARTHUR EDWARD TANGEMAN

The memories of men are faulty and it may be for this reason that
heart attacks appear to be on the increase as so many of our brethren·
have been stricken. Such a fate befell Art Tangeman May 13, 1951 at his
home in San Dimas.
At the age of 31 Art petitioned San Dimas Lodge No. 428 and was
elected November 6, 1914. He was initiated on the night of his election,
passed December 4th of the same year and raised January 2, 1915. His
Masonic activities covered every phase of lodge work and he served
·w ith distinction in the Oriental chair. In 1925 he was appointed Inspector
of the 94th District and for a quarter of a century rendered excellent
service in that important office.
Brother Tangeman was born February 17, 1883 at Newton, Kansas.
He attended the public schools and coming to California at 13 years of
age completed his education here, graduating from Pomona College in
1909.
With the exception of the time he served as a soldier in World War
I, his entire adult life was given to the citrus industry. He was an important grower and was a director in several citrus packing and selling
organizations.
Arthur married Miss Ruth Pierce October 16, 1923. She survives
him. His other survivors are two brothers-Walter E. Tangeman, Past
Master of San Dimas Lodge and Ralph Tangeman of Pomona.
Arthur Tangeman was a faithful worker in the vineyard of Masonry.
His passing leaves a void in our ranks but we are better because he
passed this way.

231

Boyd B. Rakestraw passed away Saturday afternoon March 24th
following a heart attack which came upon him while working in his
garden. He was taken to the hospital where he soon seemed well enough
to be returned to his home. A few hours later he fell into the sleep from
which there is no awaking.
Boyd was born October 12, 1890 at Nebraska City. Nebraska. His
father was Supervisor of Indian Schools, and as a youngster Boyd traveled extensively with him in Oregon, Washington and California. He
entered the University of California in 1910 but was forced to leave to ·
assist his mother who had lost her sight. After working two years for
the Southern Pacific Railroad he again entered college, working his way,
and helping his widowed mother. He graduated with a Bachelor of
Science degree in 1916.
In 1919 he became Assistant Director of the University Extension
and in 1931 was appointed Assistant to the Comptroller of the University of California. In connection with the University Extension, as a
hobby, he published the Wheeler Hall Productions-mostly motion pictures-for the public. Many national activities occupied his attention,
among them the Association of Film Libraries, National University
Extension Association, Business Officers of Universities and the International Conference of Supervised Correspondence Study. In World
War II he was business manager of the Division of Statistics and Planning of the War Industries Board of Washington, D. C. Recently he
made trips to Japan where he established Extension Division Work.
He served. as Master of Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541 in
1944 and was instrumental in organizing the Berkeley High Twelve
Club and was president of the National Organization. He was a trustee
of the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley from 1944 until the time of his
death. He was an enthusiastic Mason and faithfully served his lodge
and the Grand Lodge. He endeared himself to all by his friendliness,
fine character, wise decisions and fine fellowship.
The funeral was conducted Tuesday afternoon March 27th from the
Congregational Church of Berkeley, of which he was a member. Joint
services were held by the Reverend V. Loper and the officers of the
lodge.
His wife Josie, and their three daughters, Mary, Frances, and Janice,
and the many relatives have the most sincere sympathy of this Grand
Lodge in the loss of such a wonderful husband, father and friend. The
world has lost much in his passing but his presence among us left much
of great benefit and he also left a memory that is deeply treasured.
REYNOLD EDWARD PEARCE BLIGHT

At eleven P. M. September 4, 1951, Masonry lost one of its most
ardent supporters in the passing of Reynold E. Blight. His physical

232

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

<:ondition had been deteriorating for several years yet his death came
as a severe shock to his many friends and brethren.
Reynold Blight was born May 19, 1879 in Torrington, Devonshire,
England. At an early age he moved to Toronto, Canada and received
his education in the public schools of that city. He then transferred his
activities to New York City, remaining there until 1903 when he came
to California, locating in the city of San Francisco. A year later he
decided to make Los Angeles his home and maintained his residence in
that city for the remainder of his life.
By profession an expert accountant, he held many offices of responsibility and trust in the field of accountancy not only in Los Angeles but
also in the state and in national organizations. He was Dean of the
Southwestern University School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance.
Some of the most prominent business men of Southern California were
his pupils, and it was in this activity that he probably did most to mold
the lives of young men. These men now proudly recall that in many
classes Reynold did not mention commercialism at all but spent the
entire period in lectures on philosophy, religion, history and ethics, and
they readily admit that these lectures have been a guide and an inspiration for them through life. He held executive positions in many large
corporations.
Reynold Blight was a profound student of religion and for several
years was pastor of the Church of the People. He was a lay minister of
the Episcopal Church and his services were eagerly sought by churches
and organizations for lectures on civic, social, ethical and religious
topics. He was an authority on the esoteric significance of ancient religions and wrote much on this subject. A prolific writer, he did during
his career publish several magazines, and in 1923 was called to Washington to do important work in the educational program of the Supreme
Council of the Scottish Rite, as well as to edit the New Age Magazine
and other publications of the Council.
His social responsibilities he took seriously and was a member of the
Los Angeles City Board of Education for four years. He was a member
of the Board of Library Commissioners for many years and the splendid
library system now enjoyed by the City of Los Angeles was largely due
to his efforts. He served the state of California as State Franchise Commissioner.

It was only natural that a man of his capabilities, knowledge and .
understanding should gravitate to Freemasonry. He was made a Mason
in Golden State Lodge No. 358 in 1913 and in 1930 demitted to form
Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677 in the then thinly settled community of
Westwood. He was the second Master of the lodge. His ability was

233

recognized by the Grand Lodge and for many years he served as chairman of the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education. The articles
which he wrote during that period are now a part of the libraries of
many of us. He was Grand Orator in 1934 and for years was a member
of ·Grand Lodge Masonic Homes Endowment Board. He joined the
Scottish Rite Bodies in 1914, was given the rank and decoration of
Knight Commander of the Court of Honor in 1919, and coroneted a
33rd Degree Mason four years later.
Reynold Blight was the personification of all that Masonry holds
dear. He was a clear-thinking, right-acting, broad-minded man; an
idealist with his head in the clouds but his feet firmly on the ground.
We leave him in the loving care, goodness and mercy of our Supreme
Grand Master and thank Him that Reynold was one of us.
JAMES KENNETT FISK

Masonic and American Legion funeral rites were held Friday September 14, 1951 for James Kennett Fisk in Oakland's Scottish Rite Temple. Brother Fisk, who had suffered from a heart ailment for several
years, died at Veterans Administration Hospital in Oakland Monday
night September 10th.
Born in Helena, Montana, he came to California with his parents,
was educated in this state, graduating from the University of California
in 1905. He later became assistant recorder of the University and held
that position for ten years.
Upon the entry of the United States in World War I he entered the
armed services. becoming an aviator in the Army Signal Corps. When
the Congress of the United States granted a charter to the American
Legion in 1919, James Fisk became an active and enthusiastic member.
In 1924 he was appointed Adjutant of the ·Legion and occupied that
office until August 1945. He was a past commander of Berkeley Post
No. 7, and was Americanism Chairman of the Legion in 1922. For
many years he was chairman of the California Joint IDJmigration Committee which consisted of representatives of the Legion, the Grange,
Native Sons of the Golden West, and State Federation of Labor.
Jim, as he was affectionately known to his brethren, petitioned Perris
Lodge No. 411, was elected and received the first degree in that lodge.
The second and third degrees were conferred upon him as a courtesy by
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410. He received the third degree April 10,
1920 and shortly thereafter affiliated with Charter Rock Lodge and was
immediately appointed to the line of officers. He was elected Master
and filled that important post in 1927.
His administrative ability and his unbounded enthusiasm for the
order attracted the attention of Grand Lodge and in 1941 Grand Master

234

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lloyd E. Wilson appointed him Grand Marshal. His work was so satisfactory that the succeeding Grand Master Frank M. Smith re-appointed
him and he served equally well in 1942. In 1946 he was Chairman of
Distinguished Guests Committee, and in 1947 and 1948 served as a
member of the same committee. In 1948-49-50 he gave exceptional
service as Chairman of the Correspondenc e Committee. He was a member of this committee at the time of his death.
We lament the passing of this distinguished man and Mason but we
know that he had a joyous reunion with his many friends who were
awaiting him in his Father's House.
ALFRED JOSEPH THIBODEAU

Alfred Joseph Thibodeau, Past Master of San Francisco Lodge No.
360 and Inspector of the 42nd Masonic District, was born July 13, 1895,
entered into rest October 30, 1950.
Our departed brother was born in Clyde, Cloud County, Kansas
and attended public schools at Crookston, Minn. and Twin Falls, Idaho.
He enlisted in the Second Idaho Infantry and served six months on the
Mexican Border in 1916. He volunteered for overseas duty in World
War I and saw action in 5 major engagements with the 9th Machine
Gun Battalion, 3rd Division, in France. He was slightly wounded at
Chateau Thierry and was later seriously wounded in the ·Argonne Forest resulting in over two years in many hospitals and an even twenty
operations. He was awarded the Silver Star and Purple Heart decorations. He received a disability discharge from Letterman General Hospital in December 1920 and attended Polytechnic College of Engineer. ing and Heald Engineering College in San Francisco and received a
Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering. He subsequently
opened a drafting office in San Francisco specializing in the development of inventions.
During the years followipg World War I he was active in veterans
affairs; assisted in the organization of a chapter of disabled American
veterans, a post of Veterans for Foreign Wars and a chapter of Military
Order of the Purple Heart. He was also actively interested in various
youth movements; served as Associate Guardian of the International
Order of Job's Daughters for four years; was Troop Committee Chairman of Troop 54, Boy Scouts of America.
He applied for the degree of Masonry in San Francisco Lodge No.
360 and was raised on May 22, 1926; was appointed Senior Steward in
. 1936 and served as Worshipful Master in 1939. He then served as
officers coach until his outstanding ability in the ritualistic work of our
order was recognized and he was appointed Inspector of the 42nd Masonic District in 1946 by the then Grand Master Arthur W . Brouillet.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

235

Al's principal hobby was the culture of San Francisco's official
Hower, the dahlia, and at the time of his death he had an outstanding
collection of 147 varieties. He has served as the Secretary of the Dahlia
Society of California since 1947. He was also active in religious affairs
being a member of the Board of Deacons of the 7th Ave. Presbyterian
Church of which he was a member.
. Brother Thibodeau was on June 22, 1921 united in marriage to
Mil~red Ah_r.e ns•. a native of San Francisco, who with one daughter,
Elame, survive him. Our heartfelt sympathy is theirs in the hour of their
afBiction, deprived as they are of the loving companionship and protection of the devoted husband and affectionate father.
Although Al rarely complained those of us who knew him best
realized that he suffered untold agony from his war wounds but stout of
heart and determined of purpose~ he ran with patience the race that was
s~t before him without other interest than to do the right thing at the
nght. time. And n~w that the goal has been achieved and he has gone
to jom that Celestial Lodge .we offer loving testimonial to one in whom
all proper elements united and worked together for the making of a
.
truly good man.
"May he rest his weary head on the soft bosom of endless time;
May he sleep in the comfort of eternal peace."
In the monitorial section of the Master's lecture of the first degree
we find these words : "By the exercise of Brothedy Love we are taught
to re~ard the y.rhole human species as one family, the high and the low,
the rich and the poor, who, as created by one Almighty Parent and
inhabitants of the same planet, are to aid, support and protect' each
ot~e~. On this principle Masonry unites men of every country, sect and
opmio~; and causes true friendship to exist among those who might
otherwise have remained at a perpetual distance." If our fraternity accomplished nothing more than this, this alone would justify its existence,
for the probabilities are that had it not been for our fraternal association
the paths of our deceased brethren and ours would never have crossed.
While we speak highly of the virtues of our departed brethren, we
do not assert that they were perfect men for only one perfect man ever
lived and He died upon a cross nearly two thousand years ago. But we
do assert that through the fabric of their lives there was woven a golden
thread of truth, honesty and fair dealing, brotherly love and a respect
for the rights and opinions of others. They practiced the teachings of
Freemasonry and were shining lights of the eternal verities.
Our brethren are gone. Never again in this world will we feel the
warm clasp of their hands. Never again in this world will we be met
by the cheerful smile of their greetings. But they are not forgotten, for

236

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

every wave of memory will bring fond recollections of close association.
So, in this final tribute, we do not say "goodbye" but "goodnight", for
it will not be long-and the wisest among us cannot say how longbefore we will greet them again in our Father's House, and our salutation will be-"Good Morning My Brothers!"
·
Our thoughts at this time have been beautifully expressed by the
poet Wilcox, who said:

"It seemeth such a little way to me
Across to that strange country,
The Beyond:
And yet, not strange, for it has
grown to be
The home of those of whom I am so fond.
And so for me there is no Death
It is but crossing, with abated breath
A little strip of sea,
To find one's loved ones waiting
on the shore,
More beautiful. more precious
than before."
RoY C. BRYAN
Ross K. RoPER
FRANK EVERETT
JAMES R. THOMPSON
LYMAN A. V1NUN

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

237

EULOGY
FRANK MACPHERSON SMITH

.By LLOYD E. WILSON, Past Grand Master, Grand Secretary
Once more, in a Communication of the Grand Lodge, I stand in a
place not of my own choice to pay tribute to one who received the high. est honor that could be conferred by his Masonic Brethren, and one,
who by his action, earned the approbation of all who had the honor to
associate with him.
Frank MacPherson Smith was born in Rock Island, Illinois, April 1,
1894, and hence had just passed the fifty-seventh anniV'ersary of his
birth when he was summoned by the Supreme Grand Master. He received his education in the public schools of Los Angeles, later in the
preparatory school of the University of Southern California, and
finally in the University of Southern California Law Department, where
he received the degree of Bachelor of Laws. He then entered upon a
legal career which was to bring him to the judicial notice of all who are
familiar with the courts of this state. In 1931 he was appointed to the
Municipal Court of Los Angeles, and only two years later was unanimously chosen presiding judge of those courts. At the end of that year he
received an appointment to the Superior Court of Los Angeles, was
elected to that court in 1934, and re-elected in 1940,' serving until his
voluntary retirement early in 195.J. He served on the State Judicial
Council for more than ten years.
Judge Sil)ith was married in 1919 to Eunice Richards of Seattle.
Washington, and to· them was born a daughter. Barbara Jane, and a·
son. Richards.
·
At the outbreak of World War I in 1917, Brother Smith offered his
services to his country and as a Sergeant in Company B. 364th· In£antry,
in France was seriously wounded in combat, bearing the marks 0£ these
wounds throughout his life. It was perhaps his own service in behalf of
his country and his intense patriotism that caused him; at the outbreak
of World War II, to see so clearly what the position of Masons and
Masonry should be.
Freemasonry, and naturally its Lodges and the Grand Lodge in
California, claimed a large part of time and thought of Brother Frank
Smith. He became a Mason in Argonne Lodge No. 514, San Francisco,
in 1922. Later, demitting to East Gate Lodge No. 290, Los Angeles, he
served as Master in 1933. He was a member of the Los Angeles Board
of Relief from 1931 to 1938, serving as its president in 1937 and 1938,
in which latter year he was also President of the Southern California
Past Masters' Association. He served the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board as its Secretary in 1934 and 1935, and as Chairman from 1936,
until he was installed by the Grand Lodge as its Grand Master in 1941.

239

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

His othe; Masonic connections are equally well-known, and in the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite he was honored with the degree of
Knight Commander of the Court of Honor.

The hospital visitation program throughout the state was undertaken
during his incumbency, and many other activities, of which fortunately
there is a complete record in the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, as
well as in the comprehensive message which Grand Master Smith gave
at the end of his stewardship.
While there were, of course, many men in Grand Lodge who were
the intimate friends of Frank Smith, I am the one perhaps in the best
position to pay a tribute to him in his capacity as Grand Master, because
he was the first Grand Master with whom I had the honor to serve as
Grand Secretary. He had been Deputy Grand Master during my own
term as Grand Master. and it was, therefore, the continuation of a close
personal friendship between us as Grand Master and Grand Secretary.
It was fortunate indeed that there should be this union of friendship
between the Grand Master and Grand Secretary in that year of crisis.
We had many common interests, and I always knew that I could go
to him for guidance and advice. It was a great satisfaction to carry out a
program which I know would stand the test of time. It was this leadership--patriotic, sincere, well-planned-which led us on to the great
achievement, which was ultimately that of the Grand Lodge of California
in its war service. It was, likewise, that sort of friendship and that leadership which drew the Grand Lodge Officers about him, and which won
for him a complete commitment to every service to which he called them.
It has been said, and many times proved, that men are raised up for
a great hour; that when there is a need, the man will appear. So it was
with Frank MacPherson Smith. The need was created by the emergency,
which confronted the Nation, and, fortunately. the Grand Lodge of
California ha'd at its head the man that was needed for the hour. He
rose to the occasion; he met the requirements which were demanded of
him; he performed the service magnificently.
What a great blessing it would have been to us if, in these past few
years, we had been permitted still to draw upon that wisdom and that
leadership in all our activities and programs. It was not, however, to be,
and now we pay this last tribute to him, thankful for all that he gave,
thankful for the friendship that was ours, knowing full well that his
impact upon his time was sufficiently great that it will not be lost down
through the years.
Such was the contribution of Frank MacPherson Smith, and gratefully we acknowledge our debt to him for all that he did.

238

. It was fortunate indeed for the Grand Lodge that Brother Frank
Smith was chosen to be its Grand Master in October 1941, because,
only fifty days after he was installed as Grand Master, the United ·
States was at war. Grand Master Smith immediately, sensing the magnitude of the impending conflict and the responsibility which Masons
must undertake, took prompt action. He had served his country as an
enlisted man, had sacrificed in behalf of it, and consequently was perhaps more aware than others of what might lie ahead of this nation and
of the individuals who served it.
•
As evidence of the speed with which he acted, I should like to refer
to and quote a small portion from a proclamation issued by Grand
Master Smith on December 16, 1941, only nine days after the Pearl
Harbor disaster. This proclamation, ordered read in every Lodge in the
state, recited what had happened since 1933 by the treachery and
duplicity of the Axis powers. He said in part. "Between this day and that
certain day of the future, when the forces of democracy throw open the
gate of liberation for all mankind, much must be done. It shall be our
proud and eager duty, both as America~s and as M:aso~s. ~o don the
garments of work, of sacrifice, and of 1ro~ determination ... He t~en
gave his direction for the immediate day m thes~ ~ords. obey implicitly the orders of those in command; pursue religiously the allotted
daily tasks; cheerfully and gratefully accept the extra hours imposed by,
and dedicated to, the war effort; volunteer, whenever and wherever
possible, extra service. to the national cause: and, ·finally, contribute to
the limit of ability and fortune, to the programs re~ecting the national
will' to complete victory."
This comprehension of the problem and immediate action, looking
toward its solution, was characteristic of Grand Master Smith, and it
was 'under his direction that the Grand Lodge of California embarked
upon a great program of war time service, wh~ch b~oug~t distinct!on to
him and great credit to the Grand Lodge of California. It 1s not desirable,
at this time, to record in detail the entire war program. Suffice to say
that he planned and helped carry through the campaign for the War
Relief Fund, which was so outstandingly successful. It was he who set
up the Masonic War Activities Committee and attende? all. its _meetings, helping to determine policy and to plan programs. Likewise, 1t was
his relief plan whereby our own members in the Armed Forces could be
served throughout the .world, wherever they might present a need.
It was he, too, who planned the service for the Grand Lodge of
the Philippine Islands by which their members were kept in good standing. and recordlj smd addresses later provided for that Grand Lodge.

240

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

PAST MASTER S OF CONSTIT UENT LODGES
Tehama Lodge No. 3:
Frederick Albert Roblin, died June 21, 1951.
San Jose Lodge No. 10:
Thomas Augustus Wright, died Septemb er 26, 1950.
Yount Lodge No. 12:
John William Ricketts, died January 12, 1951.
Temple Lodge No. 14:
James Franklin Tate, died February 12, 1951.
La Parfaile Union Lodge No. 17:
Hippolyt e Dragon, died August 15, 1950.
Washingt on Lodge No. 20:
Preston Ludwick Lykins, died January 8, 1951.
Charles Eben Flye, died January 18, 1951.
Frederick Lester Clark, died January 31, 1951.
Frank Nelson Killam, died June 27, 1951.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21:
James R. M. MacLean , died February 25, 1951.
James L. Friel, died July 11, 1951.
Madison Lodge No. 23:
Samuel Joseph Whitting , died October 20, 1950.
Thomas Milton Harris, died Novembe r 13, 1950.
Georgeto wn Lodge No. 25:
Frank Henry Irish, die~ October 28, 1950.
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32:
Frederick Calvin Davis, died Novembe r 13, 1950.
Ophir Lodge No. 33: ..
John Thomas Morley, died Novembe r 4, 1950.
Howard Lodge No. 37:
Walter D. Nunamak er, died October 29, 1950.
Sacrame nto Lodge No. 40:
Charles William Ilgner, died May 24, 1951.
Martinez Lodge No. 41:
Thomas James DeLacy, Jr., died Decembe r 3, 1950.
Hugh Potter Roberts, died January 9, 1951.
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
Sterling Kindall Campbel l, died February 16, 1951.
Illlnoiato wn Lodge No. 51:
William John Eddy, died Decembe r 6, 1950.
Suisun Lodge No. 55:
Raymond Edward Frazier, died July 19, 1951.
Emile B. P. Kemp, died February 15, 1951.
Volcano Lodge No. 56:
Swan S. Tremellin g, died May 13. 1951.
Union Lodge No. 58:
Charles Albert Root, died January 9, 1951.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Gravel Range Lodge No. 59:
Patrick Joseph O'Donnel l, died April 29, 1951.
Natoma Lodge No. 64:
William Cruicksh ank, died May 2, 1951.
Humbold t Lodge No. 79:
Ernest Augustus Cockburn, died March 7 1951
George Hurndon Still, died May 9, 1951. '
·
Naval Lodge No. 87:
Charles Walter Causbroo k, died April 26, 1951.
Clay Lodge No. 101:
Isaac McKinley Durbin, died June 28, 1951.
Oroville Lodge No. 103:
Walter White Reece, died June 26, 1951.
Charles Oscar Hamilton , died August 23, 1950.
Chico Lodge No. 111:
Alle~ Thurman Troxel, died Septemb er 17 1950
Archibal d Thompso n Kerr, died April 12,1951. ·
Summit Lodge No. 112:
Fred Willard Marston; died January 1 1951
Thomas Bur~son Milam, died Februa.rY 27, i951.
John Franklin Tulloch, died April 11, 1951.
Eden Lodge No. 113:
Herman Fr~deri~k William Helms, died August 27 1950.
James Dalziel, died January 26, 1951.
'
Monroe Drew, died March 12, 1951.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Alfred Elias Hofmann , died April 12,1951.
Lafayette Lodge No. 126:
Stanley FYazer McKean, died Decembe r 15, 1950.
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129:
.
Forest Martin Pinkerm· an, died February 23, 1951.
Woodbrid ge Lodge No. 131:
Harry Tice Bailey, died Decembe r 16, 1950.
Valley Lodge No. 135:
Andie Lester Bonham, died Novembe r 23 1950
James Archibal d Hastie, died October 31,' 1950."
Pacific Lodge No. 136:
Harvey Hamlin Hoxie, died June 4, 1951.
Crockett Lodge No. 139:
James Wiseman Davies, died April 21, 1951.
Abell Lodge No. 146:
Neil Marion Anker, died Novembe r 25 1950
Russell Dell Ford, died March 18, 1951.'
·
Edward Claspill Caffery, died July 6, 1951.
Molino Lodge No. 150:
William Jennings Sellick, died August 14, 1950.
Robert Wa~ace Muller, died April 16, 1951.
Ernest Orwin Talbott, died May 13, 1951.

241

242

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Alameda Lodge No.187:
Harold Houghton, died June 15, 1951.
Mission Lodge No. 169:
Henry Hall, died March 22, 1951.
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173:
Charles Homer Cooper, died February 23, 1951.
Marin Lodge No. 191:
Harry Franklin Meilink, died January 18, 1951.
Richard Clarence Jones, died January 21, 1951.
Mountain View Lodge No. 194:
Frank Seneca Daniels, died May 29, 1951.
San Simeon Lodge No. 196:
George Albert Aitchison, died July 25, 1950.
Thomas A. Mitchell, died October 30, 1950.
Charles H. Holbom, died March 9, 1951.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
Robert Farquhar Train, died January 10, 1951.
Stanulaus Lodge No. 206:
Vernon Thomas Handley, died December 10, 1950.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Colusa Lodge No. 240:
Herman Jacobson, died January 9, 1951.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242:
Darrell Clement Eppel, died July 9, 1951.
Welcome Lodge No. 255:
Simeon Edgar Williamson, died August 1 1950
Frank Dan~ Hamilton, died September 7,' 1950."
Lansford Singleton Stepp, died October 24, 1950.
Lodi Lodge No. 256:
William Alden Spooner, died May 25, 1951.
Pemhyn Lodge No. 258:
P?rter Lee Taylor, died October 24, 1950.
Victor James DeCampos, died January 23, 1951.
King Solomon's Lodge No. 280:
Norman Hilger Stone, died June 4, 1951.
George Walter Wittman, died September 13, 1950.
Tuscan Lodge No. 281:
Horace Herbert Rathbun, died December 5, 1950.
Lompoc: Lodge No. 282:
Harry Andrew Betaque, died November 19, 1950.

Anaheim Lodge No. 207:
Lewis Lemke, died April 16, 1951.
George Settle, died July 1, 1951.

Hesperlan Lodge No. 284:
Samuel Frederick Lukeman, died January 22, 1951.

King David's Lodge No. 209:
Robert Wiley Frazier, died May 12, 1951.
Lee Andrew Sarter, died July 11, 1951.
Louis Felix Sinsheimer, died July 14, 1951.

Durant Lodge No. 268:
Edward ~ed Van Wynen, died September 24, 1950.
Donald Daniel Graves, died October 15, 1950.

Friendship Lodge No. 210:
Claude Chester Clark, died September 28, 1950.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
Charles Hedley Kispert, died August 28, 1950.
Speransa Itallana Lodge No. 219:
John B. Cordano, died March 24, 1951.
Downey Lodge No. 220:
Walter Monroe Booth, died April 7, 1951.
Inyo Lodge No. 221:
Jess Hession, died December 12, 1950.
James Edward Shepherd, died May 21, 1951.
Roseville Lodge No. 222:
Albert Perry Clark, died April 22, 1951.

Pasadena Lodge No. 272:
John Herbert Hall, died May 3, 1951.

Selma Lodge Ito. 227:
James William Mitchell, died March 23, 1951.
Mount Shuta Lodge No. 281:
Edwin Willis Clays, died July 30, 1951
Eut Gate Lodge No. 290:
Leon Eugene Lampton, died November 13, 1950.
Eugene Fanchon Gray, died January 8, 1951.
Frank MacPherson Smith, died April 7, 1951.
Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295:
James Walter Covey, died September 20, 1950.
Alfred Charles Esseiva, died November 25, 1950.

Bakersfield Lodge No. 224:
Frederick Wellington Finch, died November 9, 1950.

Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297:
Frank Lincoln Weamer, died March 19, 1951.
William Robert Lee, died April 26, 1951.

Solano Lodge No. 229:
Edward Franklin DeLaMeter, died October 21, 1950.
Maurice William Bowker, died April 19, 1951.

Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302:
Clarence Melvin Armstrong, died September 9, 1950.

CalWoga Lodge No. 233:
.
Harry E. Decker, died August 11, 1950.
Archibald H. McArthur, died December 22, 1950.
Martin Wolleson, died February 19, 1951.

Porterrille Lodge No. 303:
Clyde Elam Hubbs, died February 18, 1951.
Reedley Lodge No. 304:
Floyd Caskey, died September 20, 1950.

243

244

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

A1usa Lodge No. 305:
Peyton Eaton Calvert, died March 13, 1951.
Monrovia Lodge !"o· 308:
.
Clayton Willi3.J? Bog~, died December 14, 1950.
Wilson Pro Elliott, died June 8, 1951.
Los Banos Lodge No. 312:
Joseph Powhatan Ellis, died March 4, 1951.
Fallbrook Lodge No. 317:
Ominus A. Anderson, died January 3, l~l.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
Robert Gilbert Payne, died January 1, 1951.
Daniel Edward McKay, died January 28, 1951.
Huron Young Gibson, died May 10, 1951.
South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Edward Thomas Bowen, died August 18, 1950.
Delos Carr Castle, died September 24, 1950.
Willis Foster Oliver, died March 23, 1951.
Guy Hyde Casler, died June 27, 1951.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322:
Herbert Bertram Bahner, died November 29, 1948.
William Henry Seivert, died August 22, 1949.
Frank Monroe Brininstool, October 18, 1950.
Clifford Hallock Everdon, died November 27, 1950.
Sloan Pitzer, died February 10, 1951.
James Charles Woods, died June 19, 1951.
Corona Lodge No. 324:
Hunbert Louis Gianetti, died March 27, 1951.
Needles Lodge No. 326:
Charles Ellis Holley, died May 28, 1951.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327:
.
John Alexander Buchanart, died November 24, 1950..
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329:
Adolphe Zigman, died December 27, 1950.
Kilauea Lodge No. 330:
'
John Macdonald Brown died April 14, 1951.
Covina Lodge No. 334:
Earl Frederick Davis, died December 2, 1950.
Percy L. Nash, died April 2, 1951. ·
West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Dell Arthur Schweitzer, died August 6, 1950.
Justus Krafft, died February 19, 1951.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336:
Harry Bercovich, died January 2, 1951.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
Curtis William Reeve, died December 7, 1950.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341:
Herman Fredrick Rey, died February 21, 1951.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Palo Alto Lodge No. 346:
Lewis Harmon Harker, died December 1, 1950.
Ralph Warner Follmer, died January 12, 1951.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349:
Edward Floyd Hu~hes, died December 31, 1950.
Kirby Barnitz Smith, died January 12, 1951.
Palestine Lodge No. 351:
William Turner, died September 20, 1950.
Sunset Lodge No. 352:
Harry Gausden Bobey, died June 7, 1951.
Pinole Lodge No. 353:
Arthur Edward Taylor, died April 14, 1951.
Presidio Lodge No. 354:
John Edward Butterfield, died May 27, 1951.
Charles Ross Cooper, died March 5, 1951.
- Mill Valley Lodge No. 356:
Horace Coffin, died April 8, 1951.
Harvey Asbury Klyce, died April 15, 1951.
Golden State Lodge No. 358:
Charles Clinton Kuert, died June 22, 1951.
San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Alfred Joseph Thibodeau, died October 30, 1950.
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361:
Milas G. Green, died April 1, 1951.
Willits Lodge No. 365:
Fernando Cembelli, died May 22, 1950.
Edwin John Allen, died November 5, 1950.
Beecher B. Conner, died November 20, 1950.
Marshall He11ry Hubbs, died November, 1950.
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366:
Herbert Frederick Briggs, died May 8, 1951.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367:
Garrett Foster Van Sickle, died December 3, 1950.
Harry Ruthven Archbald, died April 19, 1951.
Amity Lodge No. 370:
Elza Lawrence Lichty, died September 5, 1950.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376:
George William Holston, died June 13, 1951.
Milpah Lodge No. 378:
Frederic Josef Brudi, died October 7, 1950.
Van Buren Heady, died February 9, 1951.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379:
Otho Edwin LeBard, died September 10, 1950.
Thos. Edgar Robertson, died September 23, 1950.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380:
Hardeman Taylor Dunning, died December 3, 1950.
El Centro Lodge No. 384:
Roy Elmer Breedlove, died October 15, 1950.
Walter Owen Hamilton, died February 25, 1951.

245

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Turlock Lodge No. 395:
Joseph Clarence Gotobed, died December 17, 1950.

Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463:
Charles Alfred Pihl, died September 17, 1950.
Center Lodge No. 465:
Clarenc~ Clayton CC?mbs, died June 29, 1950.
Fred Ohver Scott, died July 8, 1950.

Burlingame Lodge No. 400:
Patrick Parnell Ryan Rorke, died May 25, 1951.

Delia Lodge No. 471:
Herber Henry Grow, died March 13, 1951.

Bay View Lodge No. 401:
Harry Edward Haxel, died December 9, 1950.
Robert Percy Glenn, died March 14, 1951.

Maui Lodge No. 472:
Elmer Russell Bevins, died August 23, 1950.

Pamuaus Lodge No. 388:
Julius Kaufner, died November 5, 1950.

Brawley Lodge No. 402:
Philo Jones, died January 31, 1951.
George Roy Butters, died April 24, 1951.
Glendora Lodge No. 404:
Frederick H. Nusbickel, died March 31, 1951.
La Mesa Lodge No. 407:
Joseph Jacob Quest, died July 13, 1951.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Norman Arthur Hollister, died November 4, 1950.
Carl Daniel Milton Gray, died February 18, 1951
Elysian Lodge No. 418:
Reginald Wirt Clapp, died March 10, 1951.
Fenn Marcus Durkee, died April 13, 1951.
York Lodge No. 423:
Justus Chamberlain Drake, died June 7, 1951.
Midway Lodge No. 426:
Frederick Eric Topel, died January 29, 1951.
Albinos Ben Echols, died June 25, 1951.
Pittsburg Lodge No. 429:
William James Buchanan, died October 6, 1950.
Alpha Lodge No. 431:
Edgar Cornell Clark, died September 1, 1950.
Standard Lodge No. 440:
Wesley Pierce Relfe, died November 11, 1950.
Coronado Lodge No. 441:
Leslie Elias Cridge, died January 13, 1951.
Blackmer Lodge No. 442:
Oscar Gerhardt Thompson, died May 1, 1951.
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
William Wilford Healey, died March 24, 1951.
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
Harold John Dieken, died March 12, 1951.
Golden Wes:t Lodge No. 455:
Richard Henry Niebolt, died May 16, 1950.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458:
Howard Leon Booker, died January 5, 1951.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461:
Harry Philip Rothermel, died November 3, 1950.

Coachella Lodge No. 476:
Samuel Alfred Geddes, died September 22, 1950.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No, 478:
John Edward Ryberg, died July 7 1951 •
P-81
'
'
Fellowship Lodge No. 480:
Claude Augustus Hunter, died April 25, 1951.
Bell Lodge No. 483:
Joseph¥· Carroll, died October 17, 1950.
Nathanial Ted Lyon, died May 22, 1951.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486:
Norval Denehie Cleghorn, died February 4, 1951.
Eas:t Bay Lodge No. 489:
Edwin Emanuel Hedene, died December 28, 1950.
Acorn Lodge No. 494:
J·ames Smith, died December 10 1950
Clarence Melvin Lake, died Octbber i9, 1950.
Lebanon Lodge No. 495:
Harry Trig~er, died March 8, 1951.
Capital City Lodge No. 499:
Samuel Jenkins Wells, died March 10, 1951.
Seaside Loc:lge No. 504:
James Lynn Avery, died July 31, 1951.
Silver Cord Lodge No. 505:
James Franz McWilliams, died June 12, 1951.
Moun:t Olive Lodge No. 506:
Roy Buchanan Sullivan, died July 22, 1951.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507:
Eric Ephraim Anderson, died November 23, 1950.
Frank Joseph Cullen, died April 20, 1951.
Cupertino Lodge No. 510:
Walter Coffein Hecox, died March 4, 1951.
Cahuenga Lodge No. 513:
Jas. Varcoe Tonkin, died July 25, 1951.
La Jolla Lodge No. 518:
Charles Frank Atkinson, died July 27, 1951.
Euclid Lodge No. 519:
Walter Louis Rodgers, died April 23, 1951.

247

248

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Piedmont Lodge No. 521:
.
Alexander Stockton Boulware, died April 14, 1951.
Verne Reynolds Pentecost, died June 20, 1951.
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528:
Harry Victor Gilbert, died May 10, 1951.
Alexandria Lodge No. 531:
Frank Stork, died September 21, 1950.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Guardian Lodge No. 596:
Frank Edward LePla, died August 6, 1950.
Jubilee Lodge No. 604:
Harvey Harrison Dimmitt, died May 22, 1951.
Three Pillars Lodge No. 513:
Frank C. Vincent, died August 25, 1950.

Azure Lodge No. 533:
·
Clyde William Trotter, died January 12, 1951.

R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616:
Irving "C" Smith, died November 5, 1950.
Roy John Greene, died July 20, 1951.

Seal Rock Lodge No. 536:
Alfred Philip Heatley, died March 27, 1951.

Menorah Lodge No. 623:
Harry Eskenasy, died July 5, 1951.

Belvedere Lodge No. 539:
Jesse David Ramsey, died August 4, 1950.

Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625:
Herschel Leroy Blewett, died June 19, 1951.

Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541:
Boyd Bremer Rakestraw, died March 24, 1951.

Fairview Lodge No. 629:
John Peterson Dodge, died May 21, 1951.

Lankershim Lodge No. 542:
Harvey Edward Oatman, died April 13, 1951.

Ingleside Lodge No. 630:
William Wallace Bovyer, died October 7, 1950.

Jonathan Lodge No. 545:
Paul August William Genzken, October 16, 1950.
Alexander Grant Graham, died March 12, 1951.

Normal Heights Lodge No. 632:
Leland Lester Pickering, died August 1, 1950.
Horatio Seymour Ford, died May 23, 1951.

Triangle Lodge No. 548:
Clair Walter Older, died November 1, 1950.

Poinsettia Lodge No. 633:
Fred John Whitchurch, died July 10, 1951.

Seaport Lodge No. 550:
Otto Albert Holtzen, died October 26, 1950.

Victorville Lodge No. 634:
Emil Instenes, died March 8, 1951. .

Educator Lodge No. 554:
Alton Wood, died November 4, 1950.

John Marshall Lodge No. 636:
David Walter Noble, died February 8, 1951.

Plymouth Lodge No. 560:
Charles Lysander Rakestraw, died August 28, 1950.

James A. FoshllY Lodge No. 641:
Hugh Clark Terwilliger, died April 7, 1951.

West Ad.ams Lodge No. 565:
·
George Baldwin, died September 7, 1950.

Menlo Park Lodge No. 651:
Chester Birdsel Buckhout, died December 15, 1950.

Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568:
Emmett Henry Hart, died April 18, 1951.

Monte Vista Lodge No. 655:
Lloyd Chester Brown, died November 17, 1950.
Lawrence Henry Corrigan, died February 4, 1951.

Military Service Lodge No. 570:
Charles Sutherland, died February 28, 1951.
Fort Crook Lodge No. 575:
Simon Franklin Smith, died November 23, 1950.

249

Malta Lodge No. 661:
Ottmar Lewis Breest, died July 2, 1951.
Ojai Lcx:lge No. 663:
Jay Otis Burnett, died November 20, 1950.

Rialto Lodge No. 582:
Wayne Almos Weller, died June 13, 1951.

Pohona Lodge No. 689:
Hugh Ruland Babcock, died June 11, 1951.

Manchester Lodge No. 585:
Henry Alexander Brans, died May 24, 1951.

Crossroads Lodge No. 696:
Warren Henry Faubel, died May, 1951.

Kauai Lodge No. 589:
William Richard Hobby, died May 11, 1951.

At 11 : 54 A.M., Grand Lodge was called off until l 0: 00 A.M. Thursday morning.

Tujunga Lodge No. 592:
Martin Charles .A!barta, died May 28, 1951.
Service Lodge No. 594:
Fred "W" McCullah, died February 23, 1951.

250

251

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

a lodge. A dispensation was granted and the club, having served its
purpose, turned all its funds over to the lodge and disbanded. San
Bruno's remarkable growth during the past few years definitely indicates a lodge is needed there. The wholehearted support of the neigh ..
boring lodges is evidenced by the substantial assistance they have
rendered the new group. This lodge is in a sound financial condition,
having a cash balance of over $1,000, all necessary equipment and no
.
outstanding obligations.

MORNING SESSION, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1951
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M., the Grand Master presiding. The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain offered the morning prayer.
The minutes of Wednesday morning. October 10, were read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters respectfully submits the following report and recommendations.
Since the last communication of Grand Lodge, the Grand Master
issued dispensations to form n"ew lodges to be known as Los Altos,
Castro Valley, Blue Lakes and Magnolia Park.
The records of these Lodges have been examined and found to be in
order.

Los ALTOS, U. D.
Los Altos Lodge was instituted February 28, 1951, and now has a
membership of 46. Although it meets at the Palo Alto Temple, efforts are
being made to obtain quarters in Los Altos. The Lodge has able leadership and is being administered along sound and progressive lines. Its
location is in a rapidly developing community which can well support
a Masonic Lodge.
We therefore recommend that a charter be granted to Los Altos
Lodge No. 712 in the County of Santa Clara.
CASTRO VALLEY,

u. D.

Castro Valley Lodge was instituted May 19, 1951, with the legal
maximum of 50 charter members. Since then they have read or accepted
22 petitions for degrees. The Lodge is adequately financed, having a
cash ]:,alance of over $1.500.00.
Castro Valley is principally a residential community on the fringe
of the tremendous industrial area of San Leandro, Alameda and Oakland, where further substan.tial increases in population appear inevitable.
This Lodge is already taking its place in the community life and prospects for its future are bright.
Your committee therefore recommends that a charter be granted to
Castro Valley Lodge No. 713 in the County of Alameda.
BLUE LAKES,

u. D.

Blue Lakes Lodge in San Bruno, San Mateo County. is the outgrowth of a Masonic club formed in 1949 for the purpose of starting

Your committee therefore recommends that a charter be granted to
Blue Lakes Lodge No. 714 in the County .of San Mateo.
MAGNOLIA PARK,

u. D.

Magnolia Park Lodge takes its name from a rapidly growing section
of Burbank. The lodge began with 38 charter members and since its institution has received nine petitions for affiliation and ten petitions for
the degrees. The neighboring lodges are large and active. The population in the past two decades has increased six fold, yet no new lodge has
been chartered in this area in the past twenty-three years. It is our
opinion that ample opportunity exists for a successful lodge. This lodge
has over $2,000 in cash, all necessary equipment, and no outstanding
bills.
Your committee therefore recommends the granting of a charter to
Magnolia Park Lodge No. 715 in the County of Los Angeles.
Respectfully submitted,
GLENN

c. HOLMES

WM. R. HERVEY, JR.
WM. J. WILLIAMS
HAROLD MEYER
RALPH

w. COLLINS

RALPH J. LYDECKER
NA THAN GARTNER

By a separate motion for each item, the four charters were ordered
issued.
The entire report was adopted.

252

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL
PURPOSES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration thirty-four measures proposed and introduced by members of Grand Lodge. This has laid rather a heavy.duty upon your Committee, but we have endeavored to give careful consideration to every
proposal submitted to us, and we have also sought to hear the arguments
of Brethren who have appeared before the Committee to discuss the
matters in which they were interested.
.
It is believed that it will conserve your time if the Committee submits an omnibus report covering a number of proposals, showing what
disposition we have made in each case.
Brother Dwight E. Wood of Benicia Lodge No. 5 presented a resolution proposing that Grand Lodge place a marker over the grave of
Most Worshipful Benjamin B. Hyam, one of our pioneer Grand Masters. whose body now lies in the Congressional Cemetery in Washington. D. C. This ·measure was approved and referred to the Finance
Committee for further consideration.
The Committee considered a proposed form for Certificate of Standing and Automatic Dimit offered by M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand
Secretary. The Committee approved the same and referred it to the
Jurisprudence Committee. At the same time, it considered a resolution
of similar purport submitted by Brother William T. Lisenby of University Lodge No. 394. No action was taken because the subject matter
was covered by Brother Wilson's proposed provision covering the same
matter.
A proposed form for Certificate of Standing. introduced by the
Grand Secretary, was approved and forwarded to the Jurisprudence
Committee.
.
The same action was taken on a proposed provision for Completion
of Affiliation and the Jurisprudence Committee will, of course, report
thereon.
The Grand Secretary also submitted a form for dimit of Apprentices
and Fellowcrafts. The same action was taken.
Your Committee also approved and referred to the Jurisprudence
Committee the Grand Secretary's suggested revision of Section 101
relative to dispensation for new lodges.
The Committee examined carefully the request by a special committee appointed by the Grand Master, consisting of Past Grand Masters Whitsell and Warlow and Brother Thomas B. Copeland, that the
Committee be empowered to expend a sum not in excess of $900.00 for
surveys. acquisition and improvements of the land where Peter Lassen·
is buried. Approved and referred to Finance Committee.
Careful attention was given to a proposal by San Mateo Lodge No.

253

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

226 ~o amend Section 233 of the Ordinances. This relates to voting on
applicants whether for degrees or affiliation, or both. The proposed
amendment was approved and referred to the Jurisprudence Committee.
Th~ Committee also approved and referred to the Jurisprudence
Co~mittee a proposal by Benicia Lodge that the old and original Mas~mc Temple, located in that city, may be used by lodges for conferring of degrees, on the same basis as the Temple at Columbia and also
that at Decoto.
The Grand Secretary appeared before the Committee and discussed
the case of the late Brother Michael H. Urbansky, whose life was under
Federal insurance. He proposed that payments under the Federal polity be paid to the widow by the Grand Lodge through arrangements
with the Federal insurance organization. His proposal was approved
and referred to the Finance Committee.
A resolution to amend Section 332 relating to automatic expulsion
for conviction and imprisonment was approved and referred to the
Jurisprudence Committee.
Your Committee examined with care the report of the Columbia
Temple Association, approved the same, and referred it to the Finance
Committee.
This completes the omnibus report of our Committee. Numerous
other_ matt~rs to .which our attention was devoted and which may call
for discussion will · be presented in reports by the Brethren who have
served on the Policy and General Purposes Committee. There are three
absentees of Com~t~ee members at this session of Grand Lodge,
namely: M. W. Wilham Rhodes H(rvey, M. W. William B. Ogden
and M. W. Leslie E. Wood of Sacramento. The Grand Master made
temporary appointments to the Committee of Worshipful Leo C. And~son, Inspector and Past Master of Hollywood Lodge, and Worshipful. Duncan A. McLeod, Past Master of California Lodge No. 1.
Worshipful Brother Jameson and Worshipful Brother Walford acted
as members of the Committee representing the Masters and Senior
Wardens. The regular members of the Committee desire to express
tht.ir appreciation for the assistance given by these Brethren.
WILL H. FISCHER
WM. B. OGDEN
ROLLIE
MILLER
LESLIE E. WooD
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ELLSWORTH MEYER
LEO E. ANDERSON
FRANK E. JAMESON
H. GUY WALFORD

w.

The above items were adopted concurrent with the reports of the
Co.lDDlittees on Jurisprudence and on Finance respectively, as specified
therein.

255

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

Grand Lodge of Italy

Amendment of Section 245

At the opening of Grand Lodge. M. W. Brother Wilson, Grand
Secretary. called attention to unflnished business held over from the 1950
Communication of Grand Lodge, one item of which related to consideration of recognition of a Grand Lodge in Italy. M. W. Brother Hervey,
who is our outstandini:J authority on foreign Masonry, discussed this
matter at some length. There was also discussion by Brother Cogliandro
of Speranza Lodge No. 219 as a result of which action in the matter of
Italian Masonry was held over until this year.
Unfortunately for us, other fraternal duties have called Brother
Hervey to Washington, D. C., where he is at the present time. Before
his departure. he called me to his office and asked me to request that the
matter of recognition of any Grand Lodge in Italy be again held over
for another year. He advised me that he intends to go to Italy sometime
in the coming winter and make a thorough study of Italian Masonry.
He will, of course, present the results of this important investigation at
the 1952 Communication of the Grand Lodge.
Brother Hervey advised that at the present time the Masonic situation in Italy is far too confused to justify action at present, _and I
therefore submit this request for your consideration and action.

The proposed amendment to Section 245 of our Ordinances would
make it possible for a lodge to refuse to refund that portion of the fees
for the degrees, not earned by conferring the degrees, in cases where an
applicant moves to another jurisdiction and with the permission of the
lodge receives the degrees or part of them in a lodge in another jurisdiction. Generally. a man does not move to another jurisdiction except
for necessary business purposes, and your Committee feels that our
present law, which requires the refunding of the unearned fees under
these circumstances, should not be relaxed and that it would be unfair
to an applicant to require him to pay the fees twice merely because he
moves to another jurisdiction and with the consent of his lodge takes
the degrees there.
Your Committee therefore recommends that this proposed amendment to Section 245 be not adopted.
Report adopted.

254

Adopted.
Brother Antonio Cogliandro caused to be read a letter prepared by
him on the above subject and the Grand Secretary was directed to supply
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes with copies of the communication.
Amendment of Section 133
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred the resolution to amend Article IV, Section 2, of the Uniform
Code of By-Laws and Section 245 of the Ordinances, begs leave to
report as follows.
The proposed amendment to Article IV, Section 2, of the Uniform
Code of By-Laws to provide that the Lodge may forfeit the fees of an
entered apprentice or fellowcraft who does not complete his degrees
within 5 years from the da.t e of initiation removes an uncertainty and .a
problem which has bothered our lodges for many years and makes it
possible for the lodges to remove from their books a possible liability
for refunds. Your Committee therefore approves this proposed amendment, and the Committee on Jurisprudence will report as to the legislation.
Adopted concurrent with the report of the Committee on Jurispru-- ·
dence.

Amendment of Section 163
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred the proposed amendment to Section 163 of the Ordinances,
begs leave to report as follows.
The proposed amendment would permit a Past Master who joins
with others in• applying for a dispensation for a new lodge to retain his
membership in the lodge of which he is then a member. In other words,
it would permit a Past Master under these circumstances to have membership in two lodges at the same time. Membership in two or more
lodges in this jurisdiction by the same Mason would make for confusion
and would present other problems which I'll not take time to enumerate
because your Committee feels that there is a more important reason for
not adopting this proposed amendment. Your Committee feels that this
proposed legislation is class legislation which would apply only to a
very small number of the fraternity. It is not necessary that a group
applying for a dispensation to form a new lodge have a Past Master of
a lodge in this jurisdiction as one of the petitioning group. Those who
petition should concentrate their interest and attention to the affairs of
the new lodge if it is to prosper and become a reality. Plural membership
would tend to divide this interest and attention and accordingly, for the
reasons above stated, your Committee recommends that the proposed
amendment be not adopted.
The Committee on Jurisprudence concurs in this recommendation.
Report adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

256

Life Membe rship for Fifty-Y ear Membe r
Your Committee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s, to which was
referred the resolution that brethren who receive 50-year buttons should
also receive from Grand Lodge a life membership certificate, begs leave
to report as follows :
It is always difficult to pass upon a suggest ion such as this because
our generos ity and sympat hy are involved. Your Commi ttee finds that
this proposa l would not be accepta ble to many of our brethre n who
conside r the remission of dues an act of charity and, of course, it goes
without saying that the mere fact that a brother has been a member of
the fraternt y for 50 years does not necessa rily mean that he has contributed very much to the fraterni ty. Our laws now provide a method
for remitting the dues of an old member who needs this help, and your
Committee does not feel that the unneces sary remission of dues should
be encoura ged. We therefor e recommend that this resolution be not
adopted .
The Committee on Finance concurs in this recommendation.
Report adopted .

Lodge Memor ial Service
Your Committee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s, to which was
referred the resolution that a Memorial Service be authoriz ed by Grand
Lodge for constitu tent lodges to be conduc ted by them at least once a
year, begs leave to report as follows.
Your Committee wishes to make clear at the outset that it does not
disappr ove the idea of an annual Memorial Service in the constitu ent
lodges. On the contrar y, your Committee feels that it is a fine annual
tribute to our decease d brethren . Howeve r, your Committee feels that
the officers of our lodges are now required to memorize a great deal of
ritual and other ceremonies, and that it would be an unneces sary burden
upon the officers to add a Memori al Service to these requirements. We
realize that the resoluti on does not require that the Memorial Service
be memorized, but we know, as you do, that such a service should be
memorized if it is to be properl y given and that few officers of lodges
would care to memorize this service for the purpose of giving it only
once each year.
Your Committee further feels that each lodge has its own ideas as
to how and when a Memorial Service should be conduct ed and that the
officers and members of the constitu ent lodges should be encoura ged to
use their own ingenui ty to conduc t a service which will fit their particul ar
lodge and its circumstances, and that Grand Lodge should not, directly

257

or indirectly, impose upon the lodges a requirem ent that a particu lar
form of service be used.
We therefor e recommend that the resolution be not adopted .
. The Special Committee on Ceremonies reporte d their coAcurrence
m the above recommendation.
Report adopted .

Propos ed Legislation
There was submitt ed to your Committee on Policy and Genera l
Purpos~s three proposa ls on the same subject matter, and in the interest
of brevity they will be reporte d upon in this one report.
The. first proposa l is to amend sections 26 and 27 of the ConstitutiOJ;J.
to re~mre that ~ny propose d amendm ent to the Constit ution shall be
submit~ed at least 10 days prior to the Communication and that copies
be .mailed to each lodge and to each member of the Committees on
Jurisprud~nce and on Policy and Genera l Purpose s. The proposa l further requires that these two committees be prepare d to report thereon
not later than the second day of the Communication. The proposa l
fCurther ~ro~ides.f fthurthGer amdendments may be submitted during the
e ran Master approves.
ommurucation i
The second. proposa l is the same as the first in substan ce and suggests that Sections 319 and 350 of the Ordinan ces be amende d in the
same manner as the first proposal, except that these amendm ents would
relate to any propose d amendm ent to the Ordinan ces.
Th~ third pro.pos~I would encoura ge those who wish to propose
resolutions or legislation to submit a copy to the Grand Secreta ry ·
time to permit ~e distribution of these proposa ls to the constitue~~
lodges before their stated meeting in Octobe r, and it requires the Grand
Secreta ry to send a copy of each proposa l to each lodge so that th e I0 d ge
will receive it prior to the 1st of Octobe r.
You will note that the first two proposa ls start by requiring that
propose d amendm ents be submitted 10 days prior to the opening of
Gran~ Lodge~ but then provide that additional amendm ents ma be
submitt ed during the Communication with the approva l of the G~and
Master. .Grand Lodge has traditio nally put no restrictions on its members making such proposals, and the Grand Master would undoubted}
approve further ~oposals during the Communication if request ed to d~
so, and t~e ~eqmrements for submission more than 10 days before the
C?mmu ni:ation would. accomplish little from a practica l standpo int and
might senousl y handica p the .committees of Grand Lodge and you
brethren .
d
The proposa ls also require the Committees on Jurispru de
an
, Pol 'cy and G eneraI p urposes to b e prepare d to report during nee
first
the
i

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

you know, these two committees
two day s of the Communication. As
ns and proposals which are made,
must pass upon most of the resolutio
committees have wor ked from 9 in
and for you r information, thos e two
time out for lunch ever y day this
the morning to 5 in the afte rnoo n with
whe n the rest of you wer e elseweek, including yest erda y afte rnoo n,
do that same amo unt of wor k in
where. To require thos e committees to
t day would make it almost imposone day so they could repo rt the nex
the various prop osal s which are
sible for the Gra nd Lodge to consider
submitted.
the members of the vari ous
The Gra nd Sec reta ry now send s to
are submitted in adv ance , but all
committees copies of proposals which
from all part s of the stat e and they
committees are composed of bret hren
and discuss these mat ters until
have no opp ortu nity to get toge ther
ees do not alw ays agre e and it
Gra nd Lodge convenes. The committ
prop osal s and to reac h an agre etake s time to thor oug hly discuss the
e. It also takes time to discuss
agre
to
ment, or to reac h an agre eme nt not
subm itted them and who wish to
these prop osal s with thos e who have
-day limitation, which is actu ally
app ear before the committees. The two
not perm it this.
a one -day limitation, obviously wou ld
e who wish to pres ent legislaThe thir d prop osal to enco urag e thos
sent to the lodges by Oct obe r I st
tion to submit it in time to hav e copies
exce pt to requ ire the Gra nd Secredoe s not chan ge our pres ent system,
We also encourage and even ask
tary to mail copies to all of the lodges.
if possible, and are grat eful to
that prop osal s be subm itted in adv ance
t to prev ent any member of Gra nd
those who do so; but we do not wan
ng the Communication and our
Lodge from submitting proposals duri
will do so.
experience teac hes us that you bret hren
the lodges befo re thei r Oct obe r
The prop osal that copies be mailed to
some, but pres ents othe r serious
stat ed meetings would be welcome to
Gra nd Sec reta ry's office to prep are
problems. It is no easy mat ter for the
ther e is alw ays a last minute rush
for the ann ual Communication, and
problem the requ irem ent that all
to get ever ythi ng done. To add to this
ed to all of the lodg es could be
prop osed resolutions be copied and mail
.
the stra w that brea ks the camel's back
prop osal s of a more general
The re are othe r objections to thes e
som ewh at informally as to reso lunatu re. The Gra nd Y>dge ope rate s
ee does not feel that you bret hren
tion s and legislation, and you r Committ
to meet this or that dead line and
or the committees shou ld be requ ired
thes e matters. We have enou gh
follow this or that rest ricte d path in
that it is far bett er for all of us
directives and rules now. It also feels
listen to each othe r's views and
to consider these prop osal s toge ther and
than it is to stud y and reac h a
argu men ts before deciding any ques tion
of the knowledge and argu men ts
preconceived idea with out the benefit
that you r lodg e might, with out full
of othe rs. We also see the possibility
to vote thus or so on a prop osal
knowledge of the facts, inst ruct you

GRAND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

259

n as in
and put you in the position of voti
best
b~st ~tr~cted b~t agai nst you r why
k
thin
you
as
judgment, or voti ng
ain
expl
to
g
tryin
en
t
an
to you r lodg e you would b .
e, no
e in a pers ona l or Lodge dog hous
mat ter wha t y~u did.
. .
Section 128 of our Ord ina
proh1b1ts electioneering thro ugh
circulars to othe r lodg es on nces n~w
~~o~~ pre~ented to Gra nd Lodge
in orde r to prev ent the organf::~~~ao~
e anvo~mg before any prop osal
h~s been fully discussed in Gra nd Lod ·d
it appe~rs to you r Com Gr~n
m1ttee that the pres ent policy of
h C dge ~h~ch perm its you
bret hren to submit any prop osal duri n
d tth: a;~munica~on and to decide
how you wiU vote whe n you have hearg th
g ments is the best policy.
We ther efor e recommend that th ese ree proposals be not ado pted.
.
b
A motion that the several prop osals e considered sepa rate ly pre.
vailed.

L!,

.
The port ion of the Committee r epo rt re1ative to the Am endm ent of
ted.
adop
was
27
and
26
Sections
·
.
The port ion of the Committee re port re1ativ e to the Am endm ent of
ted.
adop
was
350
Sections 319 and
rt was not ado pted .
The rem aind er of the Committee repo
.
.d
itted f
or cons1 erat1on:
The following Resolution was then subm
n
S"\eso/ved:
.
wi
( 1 ) Tha t .tpembers of Gra nd Lodoge . who
duce resoluintro
to
shh
"t·
on
tions or prop ose legislati
r in1 iate ot er actio n bY G rand
Lod ge are enco urag ed to submit
y of such proposals to the
office of the Gra nd Sec reta r . a t~op
to permit distribution of
;mde
int
thes e prop osal s to the constiiu
ges of .the. jurisdiction before the star t of the Gra nd Loednge oC ommunications
.
t
( 2) Tha t the Gra nd Sec reta ry be ·
a cop y of
te
ribu
d/8t
to
e~
such prop osed legislation to ~~: r~t er o each cons titue nt
as
.
d
iv
lodg e in time for it to be rece
in~ of
~ to dthLe sdtated meet
t?e lodge immediately precedinge t::1 ran
o ge Communicabon s.
ing in this resolution is t be cons true d as a pro h"b·
( 3) Tha t noth
I I·
f
. agai.nst t h e spon tane ous int d o .
t ion
n or pro.
lutio
reso
~
o
n
°ctio
r:nJ
bein
nt
inte
pose d action, the
y to provide more time for
cons ider atio n whe re possible. g
Resolution ado pted .
eral p
The Committee on Policy and Gen
the
70 h udrpboses r~ported that the
d
a
68
ions
Sect
.
prop osed ame ndm ent of
a een with draw n by
n
proposer.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Special Fune ral Service

ituent Lodg es
1:e subject of liability insur ance cover age for const
ers of Gran d
memb
many
by
ion
considerat
~~ e; a matter} of serious
d I
motivated
ge or sever a years . Itd has
a great ea of effort and
·b
accomplishment as ev'de

has had refer red
Your Committee on Polic y and Gene ral Purpo ses
service and after careto it a resolution proposing an altern ative funeral
ful consideration submits the following report.
OLV ED, that the
The resolution reads , in part, as follows, "RES
used by Lodges
be
to
e
following is hereb y adop ted as a funeral servic
," following
yman
clerg
a
by
ce
servi
at Maso nic funerals following the
similar to
age
langu
and
tions
direc
in
certa
this the resolution conta ins
rized
autP,o
e now
but differing in many partic ulars from the funeral servic
.
ances
by the Gran d Lodg e unde r Section 266 of the Ordin
ent ritual s for perYou~ Committee feels that the adop tion of differ
of circumstances
sets
formance of tlie same ceremony unde r different
rmity whic h has
unifo
istic
woul d be a depa rture from the ideal of ritual
be provided for
d
shoul
e
servic
ular
alwa ys been our goal. If one partic
yman it would
clerg
a
by
ucted
cond
one
a Maso nic funer al following
d also be provi ded
natur ally follow in the minds of some that there shoul
such as when
tions
anoth er special service for use unde r other condi
Broth er were
the
when
or
anoth er frater nal group might partic ipate
rs.
entitl ed to burial with military hono
s of Gran d Lodge,
As has been point ed out before in the Proce eding
ring Mast ersrequi
of
m
custo
the
ct,
1950, page 201, on this same subje
fication for
quali
to
site
requi
a
as
e
servic
al
elect to memorize the funer
ity a number of Past
office has made available in nearl y every local
notice deliver the
short
Mast ers who, in case of necessity could, upon
or more services
two
If
er.
Maso nic funeral service in a creditable mann
ular circumpartic
to
only
cable
appli
were optional or interc hang eable or
the funer al
rizing
memo
of
ers
Mast
ing
stanc es the burde n upon incom
or woul d have to be
services would of necessity be great ly increased
feels the resul t woul d
dispe nsed with. In eithe r case your Committee
funeral service by
our
be a decline in the quali ty of prese ntatio n of
from the other
one
ct
distin
and
reaso n of difficulty in keeping separ ate
not adop ted.
be
lution
Reso
this
that
the various services. We recommend
that the propo sal
The Special Committee on Ceremonies point ed out
was entire ly a matte r_of policy.
Repo rt adop ted.

Liability Insur ance
y and Gene ral
Ther e has been referred to your Committee on Polic
lity Insurance.
Liabi
Study
to
Purpo ses the Repo rt of Special Committee
contained
ation
mend
recom
the
Your Committee has caref ully consi dered
to obtai n
es
Lodg
t
ituen
const
for
therein that it be made mand atory
Gran d
by
provi ded
liability insur ance coverage eithe r in the group plan
Lodg e or other cover age comparable there to.

261

h

c~ns~~:ent r:::e~~~~o~~~~~~~ ~::~~t:~sur~~e

now available t.o the
n~
al C~mmittee is likewise evidence of able and ~iige
=to~\ of Spdec1so
em.
probl
this
of
ution
a
or owar
of
your Committee agree s that in view
s in the
prese nt day trend
.
numbers and magn itude of da mage c1aims
th. .
ds
awar
and
b
ts is a~ ur1en t
~ro lem. Cons tituen t Lodges shoul d be alerte d to th
~ ~l:?'rns~ce
ns~:r
ag~n~
if they do not provide themselves with insur ance
.I .
As to the desirability of enact ing compulso I
i~1to~owedver,
:~r=t
rs.fh
facto
other
in
certa
to
tion
atten
call
'!'e wish to
ge oes
n
e
Lod
t
ituen
impose upon its const
~ and
nanc
Ordi
~
~;:~f~lso
regulations for the gener al welf. Je sof
n of
rvatio
prese
e
or
•
d Lod
sover eignt y of the G
idual
indiv
of
s
right
the
ct
prote
to
or
ge
. f . ran
.
Lod
Lodges. Ther e is still h
ges agam st JD ringe ment by other
• owever,
reser ved to the constituent Lod ge the powe rs of legislation relative to
1
'ts . t
of the 0 r d'mances.
J m erna concerns by the provisions of Secti on 115•
We feel that when ever pos s1'bl e the auto~omy of our const ituen t
Lodges shoul d be
a~d com~ft mandateliscatio
pulsions which d/~~e~~ a~~:srpo::~~e'!i;Jamun1
n and
app
orm
force.

1

d

:ii.7

the individual lod
h Co~puls~ry, legislation in matte rs relati ng to
tends to de rive tg:
alone
s
affair
own
its
affe~t
w ere its ~ction. would
essive administration of~ts busi~~g=n~f J~c~~~e. for alert and progr
desul tory atten danc e at state d
for
e
nsibl
m part respo
meetings. mig
the const ituen t
It is the opinion of your Committee on Policy that
le the problem of liabil ity
should be permitted tos tohand
~dges cani da~ddually
.
.
their
relate
it
as
and
msur ance n ivi
dcircum
lar
arWticu
wti~onp
stanc es witho ut the imposition of mand atory legis~a
e recommen
•
.
S
h
f
rt
that th R
lated direc tly to the
cons tit:e ntkd o t t e f pe~ial ~ommittee be circu
ea importance of an
immediate surve~e~f ~he:~:n J~~~r~n~~en:oo!a~
thl~dfact
age available throu gh Gratc i lodg e ~:ebell as
tha~ the cover
app te to
their needs.
Gran d Lodge plan of liabile recombmend t?at for the prese nt thisbasis
'ty
.
tary
1 insur ance e continued on a volun

'Y'1

Repo rt adop ted.
At 12:05 P.M. Gran d Lodge was called off until

1 :30 P.M.

262

263

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AFTERNO ON SESSION -Thursday , October 11, 1951

Amendmen t of Sections 15, 16, 17 and 18

At 1 :30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.

The resolution presented by Brother Henry W. Coil a Past Master
of Ri~ers~de Lodge No. 635 to repeal sections 15, 16, 17 and 18 of our
Constitution and enact a new section to be numbered 15 has had the
thoughtful consideratio n of your Committee on Policy 'and General
Purposes.
It presents a straight and simple question of policy as to voting in an
Annual Communication.
The four sections which would be repealed by the adoption of the
proposed resolution provide first that each elected or appointed incumbent officer of the Grand Lodge who is present and each brother
who has held an elective grand office in the past shall have one vote.
It is further provided in our existing law that all the Past Masters
of a lodge shall have one vote for the group. In other words, if one Past
Master from X lodge is present he is entitled to one vote and if there
are present two, five or ten Past Masters from that lodge, they still
have only one vote among them. If they cannot agree among themselves
how .this vote is to be cast they, presumably, can cast their individual
fractions of on~ vote. This presents no problem on a written vote, although o_n a v01ce vote t~e fractio~s would. of course, not be distinguishable. This fact does not in and of itself necessitate a change in so fundam~ntal a matter ~s the system of voting. Certainty can always be obtained by a standing vote and this did happen at a Communication only
a few years ago. If a lodge does not have a Past Master present of
cours~ this one vote is lost. The Master, other officer or elected re~e­
sentative does not inherit it from the absent Past Masters. The same
would be true under the proposed legislation.
Section 17 provides that none of the members about whom I have
been speaking thus far can vote in a dual capacity.
This brings us to a consideratio n of the present section 18 where the
v?lume of voting strength is to be found. To paraphrase this section. it
~ives to each lodge represented three votes whether the representati on
is. ~y one, two or th~ee persons. If a lodge is represented by one in~ividual whether he is the Master, a warden or the elected representative_. h~ may cast three votes. If only two of these three are present, the
semor in rank may cast two votes and the junior one vote. 1£ the Master
an~ both Wardens are present, they each have one vote. No matter
which of the combinations just mentioned are in attendance there are
three votes which may be cast.
'
The resolution presented by our brother would change this entire
system and give to each member of Grand Lodge present one vote regardless of the capacity in which he is present. It will immediately be
seen that the resolution would effect a fundamenta l change.
It might appear to have appeal as being in the democratic tradition,

Amendmen t of Section 301
A resolution to amend Section 301 of the Ordinances has been presented by Brother Frank B. Belcher, a Past Master of Wilshire Lodge
No. 445 and chairman of our Committee on Grievances. It deals with
the Master who presides over a trial on charges of unmasonic conduct.
It presents this question of policy: Shall every Masonic trial be
presided over by the incumbent Master of the lodge, if he is not disqualified because of partiality or because he will be a witness called to
testify, or should it be possible for the Grand Master to appoint a qualified Past Master to preside over the trial?
~t- the present time the Master of a lodge must preside over every
trial in his lodge unless he is disqualified because he cannot fairly try
the matter or because he will testify at the trial. This is true regardless
of the nature of the training and' experience of the Master.
Presiding over a trial is not the easiest of . tasks. The Master who
presides over a Masonic trial is in much the same position as a judge
presiding over a jury criminal trial. except that he does not decide what
punishment shall be inflicted. He must decide whether offered evidence
will be admitted and pass upon questions of procedure.
It should be agreed by all that a lodge in which a trial is held should
have the benefit of the services as the presiding officer of one qualified by
experience or training to occupy that important post.
The legislation set out in the resolution provides that when the copy
of the charges is forwarded to the Grand Secretary, a step required by
our present law, the Grand Master, or if he has delegated this power,
the Deputy Grand Master or a Grand Warden, shall appoint either the
Master of the lodge or a qualified Past Master of our jurisdiction to preside at the trial. The legislation does not affect procedures as to the
election of commissioners and the other preliminary steps. Likewise it
does not change the present section as to the disqualification of a Master
who cannot try the matter fairly or who is to testify.
The adoption of the resolution should result in an improvement in
the administrati on of Masonic justice, reduce the number of reversals
and the cost of retrials.
Your committee unanimously recommends the adoption of the policy
expressed by the proposed legislation.
Adopted concurrent with the report of the Committee on Jurisprudence.
-

264

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

265

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

but would create possibilities which should be weighed. It would place
a premium on proximity of a lodge to the meeting place of the Annual
Communication, since it is logical to assume that lodges near to the meeting place would have more Past Masters present than those at a distance.
Whether near or far, the incumbent Master and Wardens could be
outvoted by their own Past Masters if more of the latter were· present.
Finally, if adopted, the change would necessitate the presence of the
Master and both Wardens if a lodge, so to speak, were to have the benefit of three votes because there would be no accrual of these votes as is
the case at present.
Your committee unanimously recommends that the resolution be not
adopted.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence in the
above recommendation.
Report adopted.

Research Lodges
This Committee has considered the report of the Special Committee
on Masonic Education relative to warranting lodges for Masonic research and which report submits comprehensive legislation to that end.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered all
of the details set out in the plan. We approve all parts of the plan which
involve questions of policy and the general purposes of the Grand Lodge.
We have but three minor recommendations to make. First, we
recommend that provision be made in the legislation that in the event of
the dissolution of a research lodge its funds and assets shall revert to
the Grand Lodge as the funds and assets of other lodges revert upon
dissolution.
The second recommendation is that the policy reJative to the status
of officers and Past Masters as to non-membership in the Grand Lodge
be clearly stated in the legislation. The legislation proposed by the Special Committee provides that a research lodge "shall not be entitled to
representation or vote in Grand Lodge." From this one would conclude
that the intention was against membership in Grand Lodge as an attribute of office in a research lodge but it might leave debatable the status
of a Past Master of a research lodge who was not also a Past Master
of a lodge which confers degrees. The Special Committee states that it
intended that membership in Grand Lodge would not be acquired by
becoming a Past Master of a research lodge and we recommend that
provision be made in the legislation that the officers and Past Masters
of a research lodge, as such, shall not be members of the Grand Lodge.
The third recommendation is that the Masonic information which the lodges are authorized to disseminate shall be subject to approval by a
committee of the Grand Lodge designated by the Grand Master before
it is disseminated. The special committee concurs in this safeguard.

These three recommendations, as should readily be seen, do not
alter or impair the proposed research lodges. In all other particulars we
approve the policy expressed and recommend the adoption of legislation to that end.
See report of the Committee on Jurisprudence for disposition of this
matter.

Decision No. 4
The recommendation of the Grand Master relative to the report of
the Committee on Jurisprudence adopted at the 1875 communication
(Ross Digest, 875) that a petition for the degrees could not be received
from one who had served a term in a state prison was referred to t!ie
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The recommendation presents the question: Shall the policy established by the adoption of the report in f875 now be reversed?
Seven of the eight members of this committee recommend that you
do not reverse. Past Grand Master Warlow does not agree with the
majority. He then suggested a partial reversal, but the seven other members do not concur in the suggestion.
The · issue raised by the recommendation is of such importance to
the craft, in our opinion, that not to speak in plain terms or to leave unexplored any phase of the question would be a disservice. Therefore, if
it seems to any that the question could be discussed in fewer words or
with less exploration, the failure to do so must be attributed solely to
our concern for the welfare of the fraternity.
The question is one that easily lends itself to an emotional appeal
upon· behalf of one who, it is claimed, has rehabilitated himself and is
leading an exemplary life. But if it may be said that close c~ses sometimes make bad law, it may also be said that sympathy sometimes leads
to bad decisions.
We are presented squarely with the question whet~e~ all men ~ho
have served terms in a state prison shall now be made eligible to petition
for the degrees in our lodges. That is ~tating it bluntly, but that is the
effect of the recommendation. It is not the case of one man or two men,
but of all who are in that class.
Those who are not familiar with the administration of criminal
justice may not understand what class of persons are ineligible ~y virtue of the 1875 action and if it takes a few moments to explam and
clarify, it is hoped your time will not be wasted.
Two specific cases are mentioned in the message of the Grand
Master and it is stated that their convictions occurred in their early
youth. Your committee is as sympathetic toward youthful transgressions
as the average person, but let us not lose sight of the larger issue because
these two may have served prison terms in what is described in the

267

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

general term "early youth." It is not stated whether they were over or
under twenty-one years of age at the time, but unless they are now well
along in years, they must have been over twenty-one, as will presently
appear. It really makes no difference though because we are determining
the question of eligibility from this time forward. Let us therefore look
at the present situation.
Anyone who commits an act which otherwise would be a crime but
who at the time is under the age of eighteen years is not prosecuted in
the regular courts but comes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Juvenile Court. Under the act creating that court no complaint is flied
against him and he is not charged with the commission of a crime. Rather
a petition is flied on his behalf alleging the occurrence and praying that
he be declared a ward of the Juvenile Court. If the allegations are "sustained" he is so declared and may be released to his parents or detained.
Detention may be in a juvenile hall, camp or one of the facilities of the
Youth Authority. The latter is the maximum penalty and as a practical
matter does not happen except after several declaration$ of wardship
by the court. The relationship of the court and the youth is that of
guardian and ward and even in the extreme instance, certification to the
Youth Authority, the juvenile is not sent to a state prison, but to the
Youth Authority who may parole him home or detain him in the Preston
School of Industry at lone, the Nelles School at Whittier or its facilities
at Lancaster, Deuel or elsewhere. In any event no one who commits a
transgression before he is is over eighteen is barred from presenting a
petition to a lodge because of detention growing out of that act or acts.
. The situation is the same if the perpetrator is over eighteen but under
twenty-one at the time of the act. In such a case the jurisdiction of the
Juvenile Court is optional and it may accept jurisdiction or refuse it. As
a practical matter the refusal generally occurs only when the court deems
the minor unfit for treatment by the court because of numerous previous
handlings, but even then he does not fall within the class of those ineligible under the 1875 action of this body. If he is over eighteen and
under twenty-one years of age at the time the act is committed, the
courts are without power to sentence him for more than ninety days in
jail, which is not a term in a prison. Otherwise the judge must certify the
defendant to the Youth Authority. As has been seen, this latter sentence
does not make him ineligible thereafter.
Now we come to those who have committec_l criminal acts after they
have passed their twenty-first birthday. It is stated in the message of the
Grand Master that at the time this body adopted the rule of ineligibility
in 1875 the law exacted an "eye for an eye" and small children were
sent to prison for long periods of confinement. (I told the Grand Master
yesterday that I could not speak authoritatively about the courts in
1875 because I wasn't even in existence then and it now occurs to me
that he wasn't either, so we . speak with equal authority.) Whatever

may have been the situation in 1875, the fact that things have changed
is an argument for not changing the rule now.
None will contend that criminal justice as administered in the courts
today exacts an eye for an eye and we have just seen that children and
persons under twenty-one, are not confined in our state prisons today.
Rather than arguing that the rule should be changed because it was
adopted at a time when criminal justice was more stern than at present,
should we not consider the fact that those who now are sentenced to
state prison may be less worthy than some who might have been so
sentenced in 1875?
As suggested in the Grand Master's message, criminal courts now
are authorized to grant probation and under that power nearly all first
offenders and many repeaters receive some probationary sentence. This
may entail no detention whatever, a fine or a period in the county jail.
If the sentence is to the county jail, the conviction is not even of a felony,
but of'a misdemeanor. The man sentenced to a state prison is one whom
the trial judge considers unworthy of probation, usually because he is
before the court with a record of other criminal convictions. It is this
class whom it is now proposed to make eligible to petition our lodges.
It would not be fair to presume to speak of other counties on this
short notice, but from personal observation it may be said that ap~
proximately nine-tenths of those convicted in Los Angeles County are
not barred by the present rule of ineligibility. Whether they should re~
ceive the degrees now rests with the lodges they may petition.
Not knowing that this issue would be before us, it has not been possible to check statutes and regulations, as would have been done, but it is
believed that one who has served a term in a state prison cannot enlist
in the army, navy or marine corps. Shall he now be made eligible to
receive our degrees? One who has served a term in a state prison cannot
obtain a real estate or insurance brokers' license. Shall he nevertheless
now be made eligible in Masonry? It is believed that he would be ineligible to practice medicine, dentistry or law, but it is now proposed
that he shall be made eligible for Masonry.
One who has served a term in a state prison (or been convicted of a
felony without receiving a prison term) who testifies in any court, in a
civil or criminal matter, may be asked whether he has been so convicted
and it is the duty of the judge to instruct the jury, if there be one, that
such a conviction impeaches the witness under our law. It is up to the
jury to decide the effect of this or any other impeachment, but at least
the law infers that perhaps such a witness is not to be trusted even under
oath in court. Shall he now become eligible to petition for our degrees?
When the report of the Committee on Jurisprudence was adopted in
1875 the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California consisted of 198 constituent lodges and
11,463 members. While this rule has been in effect it has grown to over

266

268

PROCBBDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

six hundred lodges and attained a membership in excess of two hundred
thousand. Is it necessary or desirable now to open a door that has been
·
closed for seventy-six years?

agreement with that committee of which I am now a member, and I file
this minority report which is my right.
Brethren, I believe in redemption, but if a man cannot redeem himself then a lot of you fellows down there, and a lot of us fellows up here,
are going to fry for a long time.
Let us be practical about this matter, and also be specific. We have
had a full discussion, both now and in 1918. I believe that there is a
middle ground between the old law of 1875 and the Grand Master's
present recommendation, and that this middle ground should be acceptable to all. It will not indiscriminately open our doors, but it will allow
one who has been guilty of a serious offense, and who has redeemed
himself by positive living, to submit his whole life to determine if he is
presently worthy and presently under the tongue of good report.
I propose:
1. That the decision of 1875 be repealed.
2. That one who has been convicted of a felony, served time and
been officially pardoned, may apply for and receive the degrees of Masonry under the following conditions:
(a) His offense must have been one not involving moral turpitude.
( b) For 10 years or more since the date of his pardon, he must
have lived within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge.
( c) The report of the investigating committee must be in writing, be full and favorable, and be submitted to the Grand
l\1aster for his consideration prior to balloting.
( d ) The Grand Master may, in his discre~ grant per~ission
to the Lodge to ballot on the application, but sucn shall be
permissive only and not constitute a recommendation, or,
the Grand Master may refuse such permission and this
shall constitute a rejection of the application.
( e) If the permission is granted then the application shall be
voted upon in a regular manner.
As a part of my proposal one other matter should be taken into consideration. The form of the application for the degrees of Masonry
should include the question,
"Have you ever been convicted of a crime other than a minor
traffic violation? It so, state the nature of the offense, the date and
place of the trial and the penalty imposed.''
Brethren, we regard our fraternity as a great Charitable Institution
but true charity ministers to the minds and souls of men as well as to
their bodies. Mere largess is not enough. If a man, after a mistake, has
for many years "worked diligently, lived creditably and acted honorably
by all men," if he has affirmatively promoted "the general good of

Your committee majority are not men who would hunt down a man
who has been convicted of a felony and thereafter served a term in a
state prison, we do not advocate the old Chinese practice of putting a ·
board collar around their necks so that all may read thereon the details
of their offense, but we do not feel that the right to petition for membership in our order is one of the inalienable rights granted to men. If there
be one or two, or even more, who have served prison terms and thereafter so lived that they would otherwise be worthy of our regard, we are
pleased. However, we deem it would be a disservice to Masonry out of
emotion for these, now to reverse this long established policy and make
eligible the thousands confined in San Quentin, Folsom, Chino and
the other penal institutions of this and other states.
Past Grand Master John R. Moore, for the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported the concurrence Qf that Committee in the majority report
· of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Past Grand Master Warlow presented a minority report as follows:
I stand before you in an unusual position, one which, if the subject
of our discussion was not so serious, would probably be considered
amusing.
I am a member of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
which has just rendered its report relative to the decision of 1875
(Ross Digest, Section 875), and the present Grand Master's recommendation that that decision be now repudiated.
In 1918, in delivering a message to Grand Lodge, I reported my
formal decision that one convicted of a felony was not eligible to apply
for the degrees of Masonry. The Committee on Jurisprudence and the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes after a conference, indicated informally that they would refuse to approve that decision and
it was withdrawn. Thereafter I introduced an amendment to Section 208
of our Ordinances which would have made such an individual clearly
ineligible to apply for the degrees of Masonry. This amendment was
rejected.
Our present Grand Master has reported these facts to you in his
Decision No. IV, but he did not disclose my connection with the matter.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, with four of its
regular nine members absent, has just rendered its report which reverses
its 1918 position. The amusing part, if it is amusing. is that in these same
three years I too have revised my opinion. I am, therefore, still in dis-

269

270

271

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

society" and cultivated "the social virtues" so as to have fully earned
the respect of his fell ow men, then he has truly redeemed himself and
may be found worthy "for he who is placed on a lowest spoke of fortune's wheel may be entitled to our regard, for a time shall come, and
the wisest know not how soon, when all distinction save that of goodness shall cease."
Brethren, this fraternity of ours is big enough, sound enough and
wise enough to deal with every man according to his just demands. Let
us make our laws such so that we can do so when occasion demands.
That is simple justice and we need not fear justice.
I move the adoption of this minority report as a substitute motion
for the motion now before Grand Lodge.
The minority report failed of adoption.
The majority report was adopted.

from receiving or considering any resolution of a political or sectarian
religious nature.
There are already two decisions on this subject in the Edicts and
Resolutions of the Grand Lodge, being sections 815 and 816 of Ross
Digest. Your committee feels that this subject has been fully covered by
these decisions, and to illustrate makes the following quotation from
section 815:
·
· " ... We have declared the rule to be flexible that this Grand
Lodge will not interfere with religious or political matters or controversies of any kind. Masons may present all shades of religious
and political opinions, but when assembled in Grand or subordinate
lodge they cannot even discuss them."
To further add to the body of decisions on this subject after such a
clear statement would, in the opinion of your committee, be unnecessary,
and without disapproving the previous decisions of this Grand Lodge
on this subject we recommend that these resolutions be not adopted.

Spanish Language Lodges
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes after considerable
discussion regarding the resolution of Robert F. Shippee, Past Master of
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458, that the incoming Grand Master appoint
a special committee for the purpose of considering and reporting upon
the advisability of dispensating and chartering a Lodge or Lodges to
work in the Spanish language are of the opinion that this resolution
should be disapproved.
We find no real demand or need for such Lodges and the other
foreign language Lodges exist for historical reasons. We see no reason
to expand foreign language Lodges in this jurisdiction.
We therefore recommend this Resolution be not adopted.
The report of the Committee was not adopted.
The following Resolution was submitted for consideration:
Resolved: That the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee for the purpose of considering and reporting upon the advisability
of dispensating and chartering a lodge or lodges to work in the Spanish
language.
Resolution adopted.
Addition of Section 9.1 and 127.1
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was referred a proposal to amend Article III of the Constitution by adding a
new section to be numbered 9.1 , and the proposal to amend Article I of
Part 2 of the Ordinances by adding a new section to be numbered 127.1,
begs leave to report as follows:
Both proposals are substantially the same, one referring to the Grand
Lodge and the other referring to the constituent lodges. The proposed
new sections would prohibit the Grand Lodge or a co~stituent lodge

Report adopted.
Special Committee on Ceremonies
The motion introduced requesting the Grand Master to appoint a
special committee on the revision of Grand Lodge ceremonies has come
before the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The purpose of the motion is to permit the special committee appointed last year to complete its undertaking.
The Grand Lodge Ceremony of Installation is in need of substantial
revision. The special committee which reported on October 9th as to
other ceremonial revisions did not have time to complete their work on
the installation service of Grand Lodge Officers. They or their successors
should be given the opportunity to complete this revision.
We recommend the adoption of the motion.
Adopted.
Amendment of Sections 210 and 332%
Brother Alfred F. Ross, Past Master of Reading Lodge No. 254 and
a member of the Grand Lodge Committee on Grievances, has offered
two separate resolutions dealing with barkeepers and those engaged in
the saloon business. The first resolution, our number No. 11, proposes the
enactment of a new section of the Ordinances to l;>e numbered 332~.
It provides for expulsion without trial under certain circumstances of one
so engaged and sets forth a special procedure which includes sixty days'
notice to the offending brother.
The other resolution, our number No. 34, apparently is offered as an
alternate and proposes the repeal of Section 210 of the Ordinances. This

272

273

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

latter resolution, if adopted, would reverse the long-time policy of the
Grand Lodge and permit our membership to engage in the saloon business and keep bar.
Over the years, Grand Lodge has frequently expressed its opinion
upon the subject of the liquor business and while its present laws on that
subject might be somewhat clarified by additional legislation, the general intent of a medium ground between the two extremes.of th~ issue
is apparently the continuing expressed desire of Grand Lodge.
We see no desirability in departing from the present law of our
fraternity, nor do we feel that the proposed summary proceedings of
Resolution No. 11 should be adopted.
There is in resolution No. 11 a proposal in relation to the proceedings where the accused, in substance, is to plead guilty. It presents an
interesting point, but it is our view that if it is to be adopted, it should
be adapted and applied to all trials. We therefore offer the following
resolution:
· Resolved: That Resolutions Policy and General Purpose Committee No. 11 and No. 34 presented at this Communication of the
Grand Lodge be not adopted and that the incoming Grand Master
be requested to appoint a special committee to study and recommend, if it would seem desirable to them, amendments to our present
general trial law, looking to the simplifkation of proceedings where
a plea of guilty to the .charge is to be offered.
We move the adoption of this resolution.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence in the
above recommendations.
Report.adopted.

million above the 1940 figure. The stream of immigration to this state
still continues at an amazing rate.
2. There are .now more than 200,000 active Masons on our lodge
membership rolls, and that membership is likewise increasing and is certain to continue to increase over an extended period of time.
3. Our Grand Master has stated that presently the fraternity is in
need of at least one hundred Masonic Lodges in California. .
4. Our present -Grand. Lodge facilities, both as to a general assembly room, committee rooms and offices, are presently entirely inadequate.
5. Immediate additional facilities are necessary, but both on account of building restrictions and on account of limited financial reserves,
such undertaking could not be presently started.
6. Advance financing is the far better approach to the erection of
the proper structure, and this is especially true at this time under the
particular circumstances above referred to.
We therefore heartily endorse and recommend to Grand Lodge the
adoption of Proposal No. 2 of the Special Committee on Memorial
Building, to wit: that Grand Lodge vote a fifty-cent per member annual
per capita tax for the purpose of establishing a Memorial Building Fund.
The Committee on Finance will make its report on this matter at
which time Grand Lodge will vote on the resolution.

Memorial Building
The report of the Special Committee on Memorial Building has come
before the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
We somewhat doubt the advisability of attempting to hold the Annual Communications of this Grand Lodge in the San Francisco Civic
Auditorium because of the many problems connected with such a proposal and the inconvenience of the auxiliary facilities of this building.
However, we are perfectly willing to leave this matter to the discretion
of the Grand Master and therefore approve recommendation 1 of the
Special Committee's report.
The Special Committee has recommended the levying of a fifty-cent
per member annual per capita tax for the purpose of establishing a
Memorial Building Fund. We believe that this is desirable and wish to
make the following specific observations:
1. California i~ a fast growing state, now having a popul~tion in
excess of 10,500,000 people, which is an increase of more than three

Adopted concurrent with the report of the Committee on Finance.

-

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE. ON JURISPRUDENCE
The several items referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence were
reported upon by that Committee as listed below. The reports of the
Committee were participated in by the following members:
JoHN R. MooRE
GEORGE L. JONES
EARL WARREN
JoHN W . ScHENK
OSCAR LAWLER

..

HENRY

c. CLAUSEN

RALPH HECKLER
LAURENCE Eow. DAYTON

No reports of the Committee on Jurisprudence are recorded here on
those matters referred to both the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes and the Committee on Jurisprudence on which, because of the
action of Grand Lodge relative to policy, there was no need for legislation.

274

275

PROCEEDINGS OP TH£

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Research Lodges

Amendment of Section 301

Your Committee has given serious and extended consideration to
the recommendation of the Grand Master respecting the creation of Research Lodges and while we are in accord with the general idea of the
Grand Master, we cannot recommend the adoption of the legislation
which has been submitted by the Special Committee on Research Lodges.
In order that the idea of the Grand Master may be initiated and
tested, we recommend the following:

Resolved: That Section 301 of the Ordinances be amended to read
as follows:
Sec. 301. Upon receipt of a copy of the charges by the Grand Secretary, the Grand Master, or the Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand
Warden, or Junior Grand Warden, if designated by the Grand Master
so to do, shall appoint the Master of the Lodge in which said charges
are pending, or any Past Master of this jurisdiction, in good standing
and skilled in Masonic Law, to preside at the trial. The person so appointed, if other than the Master of the Lodge, shall be known as the
Trial Master and shall have all the powers and duties of the Master of
the Lodge as prescribed by Article IV of Part II of these Ordinances;
provided, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the
Master of the Lodge from receiving the charges, calling and presiding
at the meeting for the election of Commissioners, fixing the time and
place for the first meeting of the Commissioners, directing the giving of
notice to the accuser, the accused, and the Trial Commissioners, and the
announcing of the result of the trial in the Lodge, as prescribed in said
.
Article IV of Part III.
A Master or Past Master who cannot fairly try the matter or who is
a witness, is disqualified to preside at the trial.
Adopted.
Decision No. 3
With reference to the Grand Master's Decision No. III your committee reports:
King Soldmon's Lodge No. 260 asked approval of its resolution declaring in effect that no officer or member of the Lodge will have authority to incur any indebtedness of more than $200.00 against the Lodge
for any single activity excepting relief, unless approved by a majority
vote of the membership prior to such activity, and that the resolution be
not changed unless the membership have 30 days' notice thereof.
We concur in the Grand Master's opinion that because the resolution
referred to, by implication authorizes the incurring of indebtedness
amounting to $200.00 or less without lodge authority, it violates our law
which forbids any expenditure of lodge funds, other than relief, not
authorized by the lodge.
Adopted.

EDICT AND RESOLUTION

That the Grand Master be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to issue Special Dispensations to create not to exceed two
Research Lodges under such rules and regulations as he may adopt,
and
That such Dispensation or Dispensations shall terminate in accord with the provisions of Section 109 of Ordinances on Octo~er
1,1952,and
That the Jurisprudence Committee shall submit legislation, to
perpetuate and make permanent said Research Lodges and others
which may be created, at the next Annual Communication.
The following minority report was presented by Past Grand Masters
Lawler and Jones:
The Grand Master's proposal that the establishment of a Research
Lodge, or Lodges, be authorized by appropriate amendments of our Constitution and Ordinances has been given careful. consideration by this
committee.
While so-called research lodges exist in some other jurisdictions, the
particulars thereof are said to be various and are not available 'to your
committee.
The establ,ishment of such body or bodies would be a distinct innovation in California. The importance of the subject requires that it be
given careful and painstaking consideration, in the light not only of the
laws of jurisdictions where such lodges exist, but of the experience with
reference thereto. There · has been no opportunity to study such laws
and experience and your committee recommends:
That the matter be referred to the incoming Grand Master with suggestion that he direct study by appropriate committees of the Grand
Lodge and report .thereon at the 1952 Communication of the Grand
.
Lodge.
The minority report failed of adoption.
The majority report was adopted.

Amendment of Section 3~2

Be It Resolved: That Section 332 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge
as follows: In the second sentence of said section after the
amended
be
words, "Thereupon sixty days' notice in writing shall be given to such
Mason by registered mail, forwarded to his last known place of ad..
dress," shall be added the following: "which, if he be then or has last

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

been known to be in a place of imprisonment or detention, shall be such
place of imprisonment or detention,".
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

Amendment of Section 101

Your Committee reports on the Grand Master's Decision No. II as
follows:
The Grand Master decided that Section 151 of Ordinances reiates
solely to the deposit of Lodge funds while Section 152 of Ordinances
applies to the investment of such funds and that investment of Lodge
funds in certificates of building and loan associations is legal and proper.
The Grand Master's decision is correct.
Adopted.

Your Committee reports on the recommendation of the Grand Secretary concerning Section 101 of Ordinances as follows:
Resolved:
That Section 101 of Ordinances be amended to read as follows:
Upon the petition of twenty-five and not more than fifty Master
Masons in good standing, the Grand Master may, in cases of manifest
propriety and necessity, grant them a dispensation to open and hold a
Lodge at the place named therein, under such name as shall be approved
by him, which shall not be the name of any living person or chartered
Lodge, with power to make Masons and receive members by affiliation,
and he shall therein appoint the Master and Wardens of the new Lodge,
provided that the Grand Secretary has certified to the Grand Master
that each signer on the petition has presented either:
( 1) A dimit:
( 2) A dues receipt accompanied by a certified statement from the
Secretary of his Lodge that a dimit will be issued on notificatfon
that the proposed dispensation has been issued:
( 3) A receipt for dues accompanied by a demand for a dimit applicable only to members of the California Lodges;
( 4) In the case of a member belonging in a jurisdiction which recognizes dual membership, a certificate of standing and a statement
of the petitioner's desire to affiliate as a dual member.
Adopted.

Decision No. 1

Amendment of Section 176

·

Dispensations Approved

Your Commitee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued and denied by the Grand Master during the
year and also his approval of Resolutions relative to Life Membership,
the change of meeting places and his action on applications for degrees
from members of the Armed Forces.
We find that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these ·
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of the law. We,
therefore, recommend that the acts of the Grand Master therein be
approved.
Adopted.

Decision No. 2

Your Committee reports on the Grand Master's Deci~ion No. I as
follows:
The Grand Master correctly held that the amendment to question 13
of Section 223 of Ordinances changing the time prescribed therein from
6 to 12 months adopted at the Annual Communication in 1950 was not
retroactive.
Adopted.

Amendment of Section 133
Your Commitee reports upon the recommendation <>f Brother Nagle,
Past Master of Utopia Lodge, as follows:
That Section 2 of Article IV of Section 133 of Ordinances be amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"If an applicant does not present himself properly qualified for
the Second and Third Degrees within a period of five years from
the date of his initiation as an Entered Apprentice, the fee paid for
the un-conferred Degree or Degrees shall be forfeited unless the
Lodge shall otherwise direct."
Adopted.

Your committee reports on the recommendation of the Grand Secretary concerning Section 176 of Ordinances as follows:
Resolved:
That Section 176 of Ordinances be amended by adding between the
fl.rst and second paragraphs thereof the following:
Upon the i;equest of a member, the Secretary of a Lodge may issue a
Certificate of Standing which shall specify the date to which the member's dues are paid, and which date shall state that a dimit will be issued
upon receipt of notice of election in another lodge if such notice is received prior to the date to which dues are paid. Upon receipt of notification of election, the Secretary shall issue the dimit in the form provided
for in Section 178 and shall report the fact of such issuance to the Lodge
at the next stated meeting.
The date of the issuing of the dimit shall be the date of termination
of membership.
The provisions of this Section shall in no way deprive the dimitting
member of the benefits of this Section as it relates to a recommendatory
certificate.
Report adopted.

278

279

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Addition of Section 178.1

Amendment of Section 250, 1st

Your Committee reports on the recommendation of the Grand Secretary concerning a form of dimit for Entered Apprentices and Fellowcrafts as follows:
Resolved:
That a new section be added to the Ordinances, to be designated as
Section 178.1 and to read as follows:
This is to certify that Brother........................................ , heretofore an
Entered Apprentice * Fellowcraft of our.: ......................Lodge No.........,
F. & A. M., under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of the State of
California, has requested and been granted this dimit from said Lodge
in accordance with Section 173 of the· Ordinances of this Grand Jurisdiction.
Given at the Hall of our Lodge aforesaid, at........................................
in the County of................................ , State of California, this........ day of
..................................A.O. 19........, A.L.59........ , as witness my hand, the
seal of our Lodge, and the attestation of our Secretary.
................................................................ , Master
SEAL
Attest :~ .................. .'............................Sec:retary
( *Cross out the one which does not apply)
Adopted.

Your Committee reports on the recommendation of the Grand Secretary concerning Section 250, 1st of Ordinances as follows:
Resolved:
That the paragraph designated 1st of Section 250, of Ordinances be
amended by deleting the last sentence therefrom and substituting therefor the following:
"If elected, the Secretary shall immediately complete and forward
the request for dimit. Membership in the electing Lodge shall commence
as of the date of the issuance of the dimit and dues shall commence as of
the first of the month next succeeding, as provided in Section 251. The
receipt of the dimit and the date it was issued shall be reported to the
Lodge by the Secretary at the next stated meeting."

Addition of Section 178.2
Your Committee reports on the recommendation of the Grand Secretary concerning a form of certificate of standing as follows :
·
Resolved:
That a new section be added to.the Ordinances, to be designated as
·
Section 178.2 and to read as follows :
CERTIFICATE OF STANDING

........................................Lodge No.................
This is to certify that Brother•...................................whose signature
appears in the margin of this Certificate, is a M aster Mason and a member of this Lodge in good standing. His dues are paid to.........................
This Lodge will issue a dimit for the purpose of completing affiliation
upon receipt of notification that the above named Brother has been
elected to affiliation, provided such notice of election is received by the
Secretary of this Lodge prior to the date to which dues are paid.
Given at the Hall of our Lodge aforesaid, at...............- ....... , State of
California, this............day 0£...- .......................A.D. 19........, A.L. 59........ ,
as witness my hand, the seal of our Lodge, and the attestation of our
Secretary.
·················'······························· Master
(SEAL)
Attest: ........................................ Secretary
Adopted.

Adopted .
Amendment of Section 250, 2nd
Your Committee reports on the recommendation of the Grand Secretary concerning Section 250, 2nd, of Ordinances, as follows:
Resolved: That the paragraph designated 2nd of Section 250 of
Ordinances be amended by adding at the end thereof the following :
"In cases of dual membership, and in cases where a dimit accompanies the application, membership in the electing Lodge shall
commence .as of the date of election and dues shall commence as
of the first of the month next following such election.
"In cases where the dimit is issued after election, membership
in the electing Lodge shall commence as of the date of the issuance
of the dimit and dues shall commence as of the first of the month
next succeeding, as provided in Section 251. The receipt of the dimit
and the date it was issued shall be reported to the Lodge by the
Secretary at the next stated meeting."
Adopted.
Amendment of Section 250
Your Committee reports on the resolution presented by Brother
William T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master of University Lodge No. 39i, concerning Section 251 of Ordinances as follows :
The subject matter of said resolution being adequately covered by
the amendments proposed by the Grand Secretary, it is the recommendation of your committee that the resolution be not adopted.
Adopted.

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amendment of Section 251
Your Committee reports on the resolution presented by Brother
William T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master of University Lodge No. 394,
concerning Section 250 of Ordinances as follows:
Resolved:
That Section 251 of Ordinances be amended by deleting therefrom
the last two words reading "such filing" and substituting therefor the
words "the date such dimit was issued."
Adopted.
Amendment of Section 233
The proposal of San Mateo Lodge No. 226 recommending amendment of Section 233 of the Ordinances has been referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and, accordingly. your Committee submits the
·
following legislation and recommends its adoption:
Delete the first sentence of Section 233 in its entirety and substitute
the following:
"When balloting upon two or more applicants, whether for
degrees or affiliation, or both, the Master may determine, at his
discretion, whether a separate ballot shall be taken on each applicant
or whether· the entire group shall be balloted upon collectively."
Adopted.
Amendment of Section 152
Your Committee reports on the Resolution presented by Brother
Blickfeldt, Chairman of Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing,
as follows:
Resolved: That Paragraph B of sub-section 2 of Section 152 of
Ordinances be amended by inserting the words "or Lodges" between the word "Lodge" and the word " shall" in the second line
thereof.
Adopted.
Amendment of Section 220
Your Committee reports on the recommendation of Bakersfield Lodge
No. 224 proposing amendment of Section 220 of the Ordinances:
It is felt that an undue burden would be placed on the several Lodges
by acceptance of this change and the Committee therefore recommends
that the proposal be not adopted.
Report adopted.
At 4:20 P.M., Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Fri~ay.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

IN GRAND LODGE

1951
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain offered the morning prayer.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday,
October 11 were read and approved.
On behalf of the appointive Grand Lodge officers who had served
during the past year, Brothei: Thomas Copeland presented to the Grand
Master an attractive piece of luggage.
MORNING SESSION, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12,

Decision No. 5
Your Committee reports on the Grand Master's Decision No.Vas
follows:
Upon the question of physical qualification the Grand Master held:
That there is a distinction between a mere applicant and a candidate
who has received one or more degrees and that Masonry owes a greater
duty to a brother than to the uninitiated: that physical disability suffered
by a candidate after he has received one or more degrees is no bar to his
advancement and that despite such physical disability by such candidate
he is entitled to receive the remaining degree or degrees unless his
rights thereto have been foreclosed in some other manner.
This decision is sound and fraternal and is in accord with Masonic
•
law.
A motion to disapprove Decision No. 5 and to rescind Section 515 of
the Edicts and Resolutions was ruled out of order by the Deputy Grand
Master, presiding at the time, because the motion involved two .s eparate
questions.
The report of the Committee was adopted.
1950 Decision No. 7
Your Committee reports:
That the Grand Master, at the Annual Communication in 1950,
under Decision No. 7, held that:
"An Entered Apprentice or Fellowcraft who has become blind, or
whose physical condition has become such that deviations in the ritual
would be necessary. cannot be passed or raised." (Proceedings 1950,
page 29) . This decision was considered by the Committee on Jurisprudence but determination was deferred until this Communication. ( Proceedings 1950, page 243).
Since Decision No. V by the present Grand Master, which Grand
Lodge has just approved and adopted, is in direct conflict with said

283

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Decision No. 7 by the Grand Master in 1950, your Committee presents
the following:
Resolution:
That Decision No. 7 by the Grand Master in 1950 reported on page
29 of the 1950 Proceedings be not adopted.

rities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
b. Preferred stocks, which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
No such investments, however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred to
in this section exceeding twenty per cent ( 20%) of the total market
value of all the cash, bank accounts and securities held.
3. Up to forty per cent ( 40% ) may be invested in:
a. Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered on
an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance
company stocks.
b. Shares of Investment Trusts.
No such investments, however, shall be made which at the time of
purchase will result in the total market value of the securities referred to
in this section exceeding forty per cent ( 40%) of the total market value
of all the cash, bank accounts and securities held.
., Should a Lodge elect to invest its funds under the provisions of Section 2 or 3 hereof, it shall confer and counsel as to any such proposed
or contemplated investments with the professional Investment Advisor
used by Grand Lodge, whose fees will be paid by Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

282

Resolution adopted.

Amendments of Section 86
Your Committee reports on the recommendation of the Grand
Treasurer concerning Section 86 of Ordinances as follows :
Resolved: That Paragraph B of sub-section 2 of Section 86 of
Ordinances be amended by inserting the words "or will" between
the word "must" and the word "be" in the first line thereof.
Adopted.
Your Committee reports upon the recommendation of the Grand
Treasurer with respect to the amendment of Section 86 of Ordinances
as follows:
Resolved: That sub-section 4 of Section 86 of Ordinances be
amended by inserting the words "or gifts" between the word "bequest" and the word "the" in the first line thereof.
Adopted.

Investment of Funds
Your Committee reports on the recommendation of the Special Committee on Investments for Constituent Lodges as follows:
Resolved:
That a new section be added to Ordinances as follows:
Section 152.1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 152, a
Lodge may invest its funds, exclusive of Lodge Temple property and
Lodge Temple securities as follows:
1. At least 40% of the funds available for investment must be in:
a. Cash' and/or accounts;
b. Obligations of the United States or those for the payment of
which the faith of the United States is pledged.
c. Obligations of the State of California and its political ~ubdi­
visions, provided they were issued pursuant to law and that
the faith and credit of such municipal corporation or district is
pledged for their payment.
d. Such other securities as are legal investments for California
savings banks.
2. Up to 20% may be invested in:
a. Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Secu-

•
Investment of Life Membership Funds

Your Committee herewith reports on recommendation of Special
Committee on Investments for Constituent Lodges relative to life membership funds as follows:
Resolved: That Section 153 of Ordinances be amended by adding at
the end thereof the following:
"A Lodge may, however, invest its life membership funds in
pursuance of the provisions of Section 152.1 provided, such investments are kept separate and apart from all other Lodge assets."
Adopted.

Study of Investment Program
The Committee on Jurisprudence recommends:
That the Grand Master direct the Investment Committee of Grand
Lodge to observe the operation of the law created by Section 152.1 of
Ordinances among the Lodges during the ensuing Grand Lodge year
and report thereon at the next Annual Communication.
Adopted.

284

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Amendment of Section 121
Your Committee reports on the Re~olution of Benicia Lodge No. 5
and the Resolution of Brothers Walker, Johnson, Mcintyre and Llovd
J
as follows:
Resolved:
That Section 121 of Ordinances be amended as follows:
a. By inserting a new sentence in the fifth line thereof between
the word "convened" and the word "Such" the following:
A special meeting may also be convened for the purpose of
tendering a reception to the Grand Master upon the occasion
of his official visit to a Lodge.
b. By inserting the words "the Brst Masonic Temple erected in
California at Benicia" between the word "Columbia" and the
word "or" in the sixth line thereof.
c. By inserting the words "in a building" between the word "dispensation" and the word "at" in the eighth line thereof.
Adopted.
Amendment of Section 34
Your Committee reports upon the Resolution by Brothers Walker,
1.ohns~n. Mcl~tyre and Lloyd relating to the addition of Paragraph
1ith to Section 3i of the Ordinances as follows:
Your Committee recommends that said Resolution be not adopted
for the reason that the subject matter is now covered by Section 121 of
Ordinances as amended.
Report adopted.

When this sum of $38,392.10 is deducted from the remaining uncontributed balance of 1950, there is left an uncontributed balance as of
the present. the sum of $155,028.20.
The Grand Lodge has on hand. which has been collected since the
last Annual Communication, the following sums:
From the 15c levy..·--·······························-··············$ 29 ,99i.30
9,031 .00
From the $1.00 per new member fund......................

REPORT OF GEORGE W ASI-IlNGTON MASONIC
NATIONAL MEMORIAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your State Chairman reports as follows:
Your Chairman reported at the Annual Communication in 1950
that California's proportion of the full cost of the Memorial. including
the Endowment thereof. was
$'463.553.35
Less contributions to that date.................................. 270.133.05
Remaining uncontributed balance as of that date.... $193,420.30
Since the last Annual Communication, California has contributed to
said Memorial. the following sum:
From the 15c levy.•.·-·······---·········--·····-···--······-$ 29,144.10
9.248.00
From the $1.00 per new member fund ..-..................

$ 38,392.10

285

Total................................................................$ 39,025.30
I therefore offer the following Resolution:
Resolved:
That the per capita levy of 15c per member be continued during the
current Grand Lodge year and that the proceeds therefrom be added to
the Fund known as the George Washington National Memorial Fund.
and that the funds on hand from the 15c levy and the $1.00 per new
member fund be remitted to the George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association at or prior to its Forty-second Annual Communi·
cation on February 22. 1952.
Respe!=tfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
State Chairman of this Grand Jurisdiction
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS
The members of your Committee have reviewed the reports of the
Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary covering the Funds of
Grand Lodge, and also the report of the Endowment Fund and the
Financial Report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, all of which
bear the certificate of the Auditor, Brother Walter A. Parker. In our
opinion they reflect the true condition of the financial affairs of the
Grand Lodge and its allied organizations. We have consulted with
Brother Parker frequently during this Communication and again are of
the opinion that his work is of a very high quality. We have made provision for a continuation of the present auditing procedure in.the budget
which we are presenting in this report.
PALM SPRINGS LODGE No. 693

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand· Secretary reports that in November 1948 this Lodge remitted $125.00 to the Grand Lodge, the remittance being intended for

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

payment for twenty-five dollar initiation fees for the credit of the Homes.
It was not marked clearly and was credited to the Endowment Fund.
Subsequently. the Lodge paid its fees. to the Homes. and therefore thiS
amount of $125.00, because of the payment to the Endowment Fund,
should be returned to the Lodge and we offer the following resolution
and recommend its adoption:
Resolved: That the Grand Secretary be authorized to refund
$125.00 from the Endowment Fund to Palm Springs Lodge No. 693
by reason of the payment made erroneously in November 1948.

was followed by a reconciliation, the divorce action being dropped.
Michael Urbansky died a suicide December 13, 1950.
Michael Urbansky was raised in George Washington Lodge No.
525 August 23. 1949, and hence had been a Mason but one year and
four months at the time of his death, and Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund had been the beneficiary under the policy for a period of less than
three months.
While legally there is no obligation on our part to pay any benefits
received under the policy to Mrs. Ruby Urbansky, your committee feels ·
that it is in keeping with our traditions and practices that she should
benefit under the policy. We therefore propose the following resolution
which has been concurred in by the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes, and recommend its adoption:
Resolved: That the Grand Secretary be directed to pay from
the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund to Mrs. Ruby Urbansky the
sum of $788.92, being the total of the monthly installments heretofore received from the Veterans' Administration, and to transmit
to Mrs. Urbansky during her lifetime such future installments as
they may be received.

286

MAGNOLIA PARK LooGE U. D.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Secretary reports that at the direction of the Grand
Master no per capita tax was collected from Magnolia Park Lodge
U . . D. which was instituted only 29 days before the close of the fiscal
year. This Committee approves the action of the Grand Master and
recommends the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved: That the action of the Grand Master in directing the
cancellation of the per capita tax of Magnolia Park Lodge U. D.
be ratified and approved.
TRIANGLE LoDGE No. 548

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Secretary reports that a remittance of $518.70 from Triangle Lodge No. 548 intended as a payment on its per capita was
credited to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund and requests that he
be given authority to withdraw same for the credit of the Lodge. This
has the approval of the Committee on Finance and the adoption of the
following resolution is recommended:
Resolved: That the Grand Secretary be directed to withdraw
the sum of $518.70 from the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund and
apply this amount on the deficit in the payment due the Grand
Lodge from Triangle Lodge No. 548.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Secretary has presented to Grand Lodge the request
of Mrs. Ruby Urbansky dated March 17, 1951, that she be permitted
to receive the benefits of Certificate No. V-593207 issued by the Veterans' Administration under the National Service Life Insurance Plan.
The facts are that Mrs. Ruby Urbansky as the wife of Michael
Henry Urbansky, George Washington Lodge No. 525, had been the
beneficiary named in the policy from May 1• 1947. to September 20,
1950, at which time Masonic Homes Endowment Fund was named as
the beneficiary. In October 1950 a divorce action was instituted, but

287

SoTOYOME LooGE No. 123

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Since the last Annual Communication, your Finance Committee has
made a thorough survey as respects the financial arrangements between
the late Brother Ely Bush and his wife, Alice Bush, and Sotoyome Lodge
No. 123. This special survey was contemplated following the last Annual Communication and was made more important as the result of the
death of Mrs. Bush. widow of Brother Ely Bush.
Members of your Finance Committee spent some time in Healdsburg
with officers and a special committee for the Lodge who, in turn, have
appeared before the Finance Committee at this Communication. While
there are a number of matters still to be determined in connection with
the B.nal closing as a result of this escrow agreement, it is the considered
judgment of the officers of the Lodge that they would like to continue
paying monthly on the obligation to Grand Lodge at a minimum payment of $75.00 per month. They have indicated to the Committee their
desire to continue the $100 monthly payments but felt that because of
certain uncertainties, they ask to have the minimum fixed at $75.00.
Under the circumstances, your Finance Committee concurs that this is a
reasonable request and offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That the advances made by this Grand Lodge to
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, balance due as of October 1, $4,850.00,
shall be repaid at the rate of (a minimum of) $75.00 per month, it
being understood that larger payments will be accepted when, as

288

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

and if in the judgment of the Brethren of Sotoyome Lodge larger
payments can be made.
MARKER AT THE GRAVE OP P.G.M. BENJAMIN D. HYAM

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The matter of placing a marker at the grave of Past Grand Master
Benjamin D. Hyam. third Grand Master of Masons in California, in
the Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D. C., has been discussed
with the proponents of the resolution and also with the members of the
Policy and General Purposes Committee, to whom it was referred. We
concur with them that a suitable marker should be provided and therefore present the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved: That the sum of $500.00 be appropriated for the purpose of placing a marker at the grave of P.G.M. Benjamin D. Hyam
in the Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D. C.
Further: That the Grand Master be authorized to appoint a
committee to carry this project to its completion.
,
ACQUISITION OP BURIAL SITE OP PETER LASSEN
With reference to the report of the Special Committee on the acquisition of the burial site of Peter Lassen, which has been concurred in by
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, your Committee on
Finance presents the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved: That the sum of $900.00 be appropriated for the purpose of procuring necessary surveys, acquiring title to, and improving the burial site of Peter Lassen and that the Grand Master appoint a special committee to accomplish such acquisition and improvement.
PALOS VERDES LoooE No. 389
We are informed by the Grand Secretary that Palos Verdes Lodge
No. 389 has been made the defendant in an action concerning the title
to certain stocks owned by that Lodge and that the Grand Lodge has
also been named in the suit. While Grand Lodge does not appear to be
involved financially in the matter, the Grand Master has ordered counsel engaged to represent the Grand Lodge in the matter. The attorneys
are unable to give an estimate of the attorneys' fees or costs involved
and therefore we are unable to recommend any appropriation at this
Communication. We feel, however, that authority should be given to
the Grand Master to order payment of such fees and expenses as he
deems necessary.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

289

Resolved: That in the matter of the Palos Verdes litigation, the
Grand Master be authorized to order the payment of such at•
torneys' fees, costs, and other expenses as he deems necessary for
the protection of the interests of Grand Lodge.
EQUIPMENT -

GRAND SECRETARY'S OFFICE

Microfilm_ing:
During the past year, under authority from the Grand Master, a
vault was constructed in the basement of Columbia Temple at a cost
of $6,766.00.
,~
As a further step toward the protection and preservation of Grand
Lodge records, the Grand Secretary recommends the microfilming of all
important documents and records for storage in the Columbia Temple
vault.
The estimated cost of the necessary equipment, film, and files, together with bringing the work down to date, is $3,500.00.
Addressograph and Miscellaneous Equipment:
The office addressograph has been in use for fifteen years and should
be replaced. The cost would be approximately $1,350.00. An additional $650.00 is deemed to be sufficient to purchase other office equipment needed during the year.
These items appear in appropriate places in the recommended
budget.
SALARIES
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the staff salary situation
with the Grand Secretary and recommends ~n over-all increase of the
allotment for this purpose. including extra help, of $3,500.00.
This will make the total budgeted salaries $42,500.00. Of this
amount, it is recommended that $7,500.00 be refunded by the Masonic
Homes for services rendered by the Office of the Grand Secretary to
those institutions. This would leave a net of $35,000.00.
COLUMBIA TEMPLE
We have reviewed the report of the Columbia Temple Restoration
Committee and have met with members of that Committee. After a
thorough review of the entire situation, your Committee on Finance presents the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved: That the sum of $6,766.00 be appropriated to pay the
cost of constructing a vault in the building at Columbia, California
as authorized by the Grand Master, and which was completed in
September of this year, and
Be It Further Resolved: That the sum of $3,200.00 be appro-

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

priated for the use of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee
during the coming year for the following purposes:
Salaries and Utilities..............................................$ 500.00
·Carpets ·················-··············································· 2,000.00
Treating exterior of building as requested by
the State of California........................................ 500.00
General Maintenance and Repairs........................ 1,200.00
$4,200.00
Less Anticipated Rentals for the Year.................. 1,000.00
Balance Required ..............................................$3,200.00
COMMITI'EE ON PUBLICATIONS

The adoption of the legislation with reference to Publications under
Masonic names will require the attention of a Committee and it is likely
that some expense will be incurred by the Committee. The legislation is
new and there is no experience. We feel, however, that some provision
should be made and $2,500.00 is included in the current budget.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

291

GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL ASSOCIATION

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association and also that of
Past Grand Master John R. Moore, State Chairman, setting forth the
progress made by the Association and the amounts remaining to be paid.
After a careful study of the existing situation, they have strong reason
to believe that in view of the changes which have been made in the plans
for completing the project, this Grand Lodge may not be called upon for
any further contributions. However, in view of the uncertainties which
exist, we recommend that the assessment of l 5c per member be continued this year but the funds so raised not be paid over to the George
Washington Masonic Memorial Association but held by this Grand
Lodge to be disposed of only when approved by the Grand Master and
the Chairman of the Finance Committee.
In the event these funds are not paid over to the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial Association within three (3) years, such
funds are to be transferred to General Funds of this Grand Lodge.
MASONIC HOMES

INVESTMENTS FOR CONSTITUENT LoDGES

As a result of the adoption of the report of the Special Committee on
Investments for Constituent Lodges, those Lodges may now make investments in accordance with the Prudent Man Rule, subject to the restrictions in the legislation, provided that the officers or representatives
of the Lodges have consulted with Investment Counsel, whose fees shall
be paid by Grand Lodge.
The Assistant Grand Treasurer advises us that the Investment Counsel now servicing the investments under jurisdiction of the Investment
Committee, is willing to preform the same services for the Lodges of the
jurisdiction for an annual fee of not less than $3,000.00.
In the discussion of the proposed legislation with members of the
Committee on Investments for Constituent Lodges, some suggestions
have been made concerning the actual legislation, as well as plans for its
operation. As the Committee has agreed in principle with the suggestions
which have been made, we feel that it is not necessary to detail them here,
except to state that the Committee on Finance is in accord with the proposed legislation and recommends its adoption.
The fact that the plan is new handicaps us in providing the necessary
finances, but we believe that until more experience has been had that an
allowance in our budget of $3,000.00 will be sufficient, and this has been
provided.

Subsequent to the presentation to the Grand Lodge of the report of
the Trustees of the Masonic Homes in which a per capita tax of $1.00
was recommended, your Committee on Finance has carefully reviewed
the anticipated revenues and expenditures of the Homes for the coming
fiscal year. As a result, the Trustees have agreed with this Committee
that this per capita tax be reduced to seventy-6.ve cents ( 75c).
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
RESOLVED, that a per capita tax of seventy-6.ve cents ( 75c) be
levied for the operation of the Masonic Homes.
MEMORIAL BUILDING COMMITI'EE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on 'Finance has considered very carefully the report of the Committee on a Memorial Building and its recommendations.
It is well to consider the activities of this Committee. It was appointed
6.rst in 1948 by Grand Master Warlow following the recommendation
of Grand Master Moore at the Annual Communication in 1947 for the
purpose of considering various sites and plans for the erection of a
building to serve as a dignified meeting place for the Grand Lodge and a
suitable location for its offices. There was made available to the Committee the amount remaining in the War Relief Fund raised during

292

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

293

World War II and now amounting to $158,507.44, subject to the prior
approval of the Grand Master, the· Deputy Grand Master, and the
Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
·
~his Committee has labored diligently but to date has not been able
to submit a proposal worthy of consideration by this Grand Lodge. In
its current report, the Committee states that due to building restrictions,
it now has under consideration several improved properties which might
be suitably remodeled for our purpose but that it is not in a position to
make a definite recommendation at this Communication. However, it
does recommend that the Committee be continued, and we concur in this.
The Committee also recognizes that we are experiencing great difficulty in accommodating the members of Grand Lodge at the Annual
Communications, hence the recommendation to hold the Annual Communications in the San Francisco Civic Auditorium for five years beginning in 1952, subject to the approval of the Grand Master. The
Committee also recognizes that moving to the Civic Center cannot be a
permanent arrangement but that eventually some provision must be made
for a permanent Grand Lodge headquarters and meeting place. However, no provision has been made for the financing of such a project,
and before any material progress can be made some attention must be
given to this important phase. Therefore, it proposes the levying of a
fifty-cent per capita tax for the purpose of creating a building fund.
Your Committee on Finance concurs in both of these recommenda. tions. Every member of the Grand Lodge has a right to attend all of its
sessions, particularly the opening session, and those who desire to do
so should be accorded by that right the provision of more commodious
quarters. The proposal to create a building fund with the assessment of
a per capita tax of 50c is sound. Our capital funds are not sufficient to
enable us to engage in a building enterprise. Outside of the War Relief
Fund, capital funds of this Grand Lodge have increased at the rate of
approximately $26,000 .a year for the past ten years. A fifty-cent per
capita tax would yield approximately $100,000.00 per annum, and if
carried over for a number of years, would create a very substantial
b~g fund.
~t should be pointed out that your Committee on Finance is not
recommending any particular type of building and that so far as we
know, no ddl!)ite proposal is under consideration. Our sole concern is
to build up the funds of Grand Lodge so that when the time comes, we •
shall be more adequately prepared to accept any proposal which may
seem sound. While we understand that it is not possible to rent the San
Francisco Civic Auditorium for two years, we believe that the Grand
Master should have the authority to engage such quarters as may seem
suitable for the next Communication and any subsequent Annual Com~on and thus relieve the crowded conditions which we find here.
~e th~fore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption,

and we are advised by the Committee on Policy and General Purpose
that it concurs in this resolution:
RESOLVED, that the amount of $158,507.44 now standing
in the War Memorial Building Fund be again made available
to the Memprial Building Committee for the purpose of acquiring
options, having plans drawn, or such other purposes as may be
deemed advisable in connection with the acquiring of a suitable
site for Grand Lodge headquarters, any such expenditures being
subject to the prior approval oE the Grand Master, the Deputy
Grand Master and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance,
with the understanding that no permanent decision shall be made
with reference to any proposed Grand Lodge headquarters or
meeting place without the approval of this Grand Lodge; ·and
BE IT RESOLVED FURTHER. that a per capita tax of
fifty cents ( 50c) be levied for the year 1951-1952, the proceeds
of which shall be paid into a building fund and to remain in such
building fund until otherwise ordered by the Grand Lodge; and
BE IT RESOLVED FURTHER. that the Grand Master be
authorized to enter into such commitments as may seem desirable
for the use of the San Francisco Civic Auditorium or such other
meeting place as may appear to be suitable for the next Annual
Communication and succeeding Annual Communications, but not
for a period exceeding five years.

F'

BUDGET 1951-2
ADMINISTRATIVE AND 0PPICE

I

Some of these items have been copimented on previously and others
have been arrived at after consultation with the Grand Secretary or
others concerned.
Salaries ............................................................................$35,008.00
Rent -- ........................................................................._ ... 6,000.00
Audit ..........................................................- ......................
950.00
Grand Treasurer ............................................................ 1,200.00
Postage and Express ...................................................... 2,250.00
Telephone and Telegraph .............................................. 1,500.00
Bonds, Supplies, Sundry ................................................ 1,500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes.................... 1,250.00
Investment Counsel ........................................................
900.00
TOTAL ....................................................................$50,SSO.OO

294

295

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. GENERAL EXPENSES

Information Committee ..................................................
500.00
Lodge Finance Committee ..............................................
800.00
Public Schools Week ···················--·····--··············-·········· 3,000.00
Publications Committee .................................................. 2,500.00
University Clubhouses .................................................... 42,375.00
Hyam Monument ............................................................
500.00
Lassen Burial Ground ...................................................
900.00

These items have been determined from experience or after consultation with Grand Lodge Officers or Committeemen.
Annual Communication ··-···--······-···················:-.....•..$ 5,500.00
Conferences .................................................................... 1,000.00
Equipment, Office ............................................................ 2,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers Travel Expense.....................:.... 6,500.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ..............................
400.00
Grand Master
Travel .......................................................................... 7,000.00
Miscellaneous ....._....................................................... 1,750.00
Ritualistic Expense
Grand Lecturer ............................................................
600.00
Inspectors Aprons and Stationery ............................ 1,000.00
Travel Expense ............................................................ 9,500.00
850.00
Portrait, Grand Master ..................................................
Printing ............................................................................ 20,000.00
Pay of Members ........:..................................................... 23,500.00
Grand Master Relief Fund ............................................ 2,000.00
Retirement Pay ................................................................
900.00
Veterans Buttons ............................................................ 1,500.00
Microfilming .................................................................... 3,500.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges .................................... 3,000.00
Miscellaneous .................................................................. 2,500.00

TOTAL ······---~---·········--········--······························-$95,470.00
RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office ............................................$ 50.550.00
General Expense .......................................................... 93,000.00
Appropriations .............................................................. 95,470.00
GRAND TOT AL ........................- ........................$239,020.00
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE 1951-2
Dues from Lodges ..............~...................:....:................$216.568.90
Interest and Dividends ................................................ 32.500.00
TOTAL INCOME ................................................$249,068.90
Appropriations and Budgeted Expense Items............ 239,020.00
ESTIMATED SURPLUS ....................._...........$

TOTAL ....................................................................$93,000.00
APPROPRIATIONS
The following appropriations are recommended as a result of requests
from the various Boards and Committees and discussion with their
members.
Activities Committee ......................................................$ 6,000.00
Board of Control Expense .............................................. 2,000.00
Boards of Relief ..............................................................
125.00
Charter Committee .......................................................... 1,000.00
Columbia Temple Vault ................................................ 6,766.00
Columbia Temple Maintenance .................................... 3,200.00
Constitution Month ........................................................
500.00
Correspondence Committee ............................................
500.00
DeMolay Committee ......................................................
750.00
Employment Bureau ........................................................ 16,004.00
Endowment Board .......................................................... 8,000.00
History Committee ..........................................................
50.00

10,048.90

The estimated surplus is very modest and will not offset any unusual large expenditures which may occur. However, we are not recommending increase i~ the per capita tax for Grand Lodge expense.
We offer the following Resolution and recommend its adoption:
RESOLVED, that in addition to the constitutional provision of fifty
cents ( 50c) per capita that an additional levy of forty-five cents ( 45c)
per capita be levied for the expenses of the Grand Lodge fiscal year
1952-3.
PER CAPITA TAX
Constitutional for expenses......................................................
Special for expenses ................................................................
George Washing ton Memorial ..............................................
Masonic Homes ........................................................................
Gr.a nd Lodge Building Fund ..................................................

.50
.45
.15
.75
.50
$2.35

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

In concluding its report, your Committee offers the following Resolution and recommends its adoption:

ANNUAL ELECTIO N

296

RESOLVE D, that the expenditure of $239,020.00 as represented by
·
the items previously listed be approved.

Respectfull y submitted,
CLAUDE H. MORRISON
F. WESLEY DAVIES
JOHNW. DAVEY
. EDWARD H. SIEMS
PHIL N. MYERS
ARTHUR M. looMIS
PAUL F. BALCK
. By separate action applying to each section of the report, the various
items of the budget appropriatio ns and per capita were adopted, and
the report was then adopted in its entirety.

297

The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections of
the Constitution applying to the same.
The Grand Master then appointed the following brethren to serve
as tellers:
Russell A. Bell, Sr. Warden, Inyo No. 221.
Lawrence H. Bergstrom, Sr. Warden, Hawaiian No. 21.
Theodore A. Blackstad, Sr. Warden, Kauai No. 589.
H. Victor Clark, Past Master, Monrovia No. 308.
H. C. Comaford, Past Master, Bell No. 483.
R. M. Culbertson, Master, San Diego No. 35.
Louis L. Cunningham , Past Master, Moneta No. 405.
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master. Alhambra No. 322.
Guy S. Harts. Sr.• Past Master, Poinsettia No. 633.
Eugene P. Jijine. Past Master, Maui No. 472.
Herman F. Kollmeyer, Jr., Master, Schofield No. 443.
0. E. Kopperud, Past Master. Truth No. 628.
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master, Occidental No. 22.
Charles T. Padgitt, Jr. Warden. Point Loma No. 620.
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master, Vallejo No. 487.
Harold L. Reynolds, Sr. Warden, Searchlight No. 567.
Ted R. Siems, Past Master, Buena Park No. 357.
Otho Stewart, Past Master, Fort Crook No. 575.
David H. Terry, Past Master, South Gate No. 320.
William T: Toon, Sr. Warden, Point Loma No. 620.
Cyril Louis Weeks, Past Master, Fidelity No. 120.
Earl A. Whitson, Sr. Warden, Dunsmuir No. 297.
Frank C. Wolff, Past Master, Ocean Park No. 369.
David Wright, Past Master, Menlo Park No. 651.

298

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

GRAND LODGE OFFICERS

INSTAL LATION OF OFFICERS

The R. W. Louis C. Drapeau, Poinsettia Lodge No. 633, was elected
Grand Master.
The R. W. Arthur M. Warren, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481, was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Frank Harwell, Jr., Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, was
elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Henry C. Clausen, Ingleside Lodge No. 630, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master, California
Lodge No. 1, was re-elected Grand Treasurer .
The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Walter H. E. von Konsky, Seaport Lodge No. 550, was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-el ect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Thomas Grice, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell , North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Delta Lodge No. 471: Elbert W. Davis,
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571; Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas
Lodge No. 466: Guy B. Mize, Unity Lodge No. 368; Augustus H.
Allen, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.
Grand Orator, Ralph C. Hine, Magnolia Lodge No. 242.
Assistant Grand Treasurer , Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge
.
No. 360.
No. 401.
Lodge
View
}fay
Triggs,
H.
Arthur
Grand Marshal.
Grand Standard Bearer, Conley La Force, Poinsettia Lodge No. 633.
Grand Sword Bearer, Arthur T. Mead, Poinsettia Lodge No. 633.
Grand Bible Bearer, Walter F. Sanborn, Kauai Lodge No. 589.
Senior Grand Deacon, Lyman E. Hallowell, San Buenaven tura
Lodge No. 214.
Junior Grand Deacon, A . C. Currie, Charity Lodge No. 362.
Senior Grand Steward, Harry K. Widup, Golden Gate Lodge No.
.
3Q
Junior Grand Steward, Joe A. Taylor, Santa Monica Lodge No. 307.
Grand Pursuivan t. Jay A. Powers, Jordan Lodge No. 654.
Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson , Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Alvin A. Horwege, Woodstoc k Lodge No. 491.
The Grand Secretary announce d the appointme nt by the Grand
Master-el ect of L. Harold Anderson and Ralph H. Head as Trustees of
the Masonic Homes for terms of three years each, and the appointme nt
of Leonard Gross for a term of two years (for the purpose of correcting
the record).
At 12: 15 P.M., Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 P.M.

299

At 2:00 P.M. Grand Lodge re-assembled.
The Most Worshipf ul Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master,
ac.ted as Maste~ of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed ,
with the exception of the Grand Bible Bearer and the Grand Pursuivan t
were installed by the Retiring Grand Master in due and ancient form. '
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecess or with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
Th~ Chas. Albert Adams insignia was tran sferred from the retiring
to the mcumbent Grand Master, and the other chair officers exchanged
the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.

The J. Everett Houser lapel pin was transferre d from the retiring to
the incumbent Grand Orator.
The Most Worshipf ul Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master
invested the Retiring Grand Master with the apron of a Past Grand
Master. The Most Worshipf ul Gilbert C. DeForest, Past Grand Master,
on behalf of the members of Grand Lodge, presented a gift to Mrs.
Arthur Paulsen, and it was accepted by the Retiring Grand Master in
her behalf.
At 3:45 P.M., all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

~~
Grand Master

SPECIAL

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

301

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Budget for 1951-1952 ....................................................................

302

Audit of Annual Returns-1951 ....................................................

303

Financial Report-Grand Lodge:
304
Auditor's Certification ............................................................
Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities ................306-307
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and
Disbursements ..................................................................308-309
Grand Lodge Audit ................................................................
310
Financial Report-Endowment Fund:
Auditor's Certification ............................................................
Grand Treasurer's Report ......................................................

319
321

Financial Report-Masonic Homes:
Auditor's Certification ............................................................
Balance Sheet ..........................................................................
Cash .Receipts and Disbursements ........................................

328
330
337

Statenrent of Revenue and Expenses.................·-··········--···
Securities Owned ....................................................................

339
331

Statistical:
Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund............
Details of Masonic Homes ....................................................
Number of Residents, Decoto and Covina....................
Per Capita Cost, Decoto and Covina............................

345
356
388
388

Contributions to Special Funds......·-·-··························
Annual Returns-1951 ............................................................

389
390

302

BUDGET FOR 1951-1952
The Finance Committee proposed the following budget for the current fiscal year:
Administrative and Office
Salaries ···-······-···············--······-·······················$42,500.00
RentLess to be refunded by Homes.................. 7,500.00 $35,000.00

.......................... _....................................................................................................................

~~~~ ~;~;:;;;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

6,000.00
950.00
1,200.00
2,250.00
1,500.00
1,500.00
1,250.00
900.00

Postage and Express..·-··-··················-····-··········-······-·······
Telephone and Telegraph................................................... .
Bonds, Supplies and Sundry Expense................ ·-···········
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ......·-··-········
Investment Council ·······-··-··············-·································
Total ........................................................................ - - - - $50,550.00

General Expenses
Annual Communication ..................................................... . $ 5,500.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
Grand Lodge Officer's Expense................................·-·······
6,500.80
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler.................................,......
400.00
Grand Master, Travel Expense..........................................
7,000.00
grand Master, Miscellaneous Expense.......- .................. .
1,750.00
600.00
R ~and Lecturer Expense...................·-························-·······
itual Committee, Travel Expense........................... _.......
9,500.00
1,000.00
::::ili~ff r~r~dons, Stationery and Miscellaneous... .
850.00
20,000.00
23,500.00
Gra_nd Master's Relief Fund................................................
2,000.00
900.00
~etirement Pay ··--···-··························-·······························
1,500.00
M~ter~n:uttons ···············-··································-··········-···
In1cro
mg Expense ....................................................... .
3,500.00 ·
M~~:~~~u~ouncil for Lodges..........................................
3,000.00
.....................................................................................................................
2,500.00
Total General Expenses........................................
$93,000.00
Appropriations
Activities Committee .......................................................... $ 6,000.00
2,000.00
~o= of Control .......-··~··························------·········--···--·-···
Ch s of Relief (Bakersfield) ................................. _______ _
125.00
C fteb~ Committee ........................................................... .
1,000.00
6,766.00
C o um ia Temple Vault. ................·-··········-·············-·······
Co1llll?-bia_ Temple Maintenance................................. _.......
3,200.00
500.00
Constitution Month ···-·····················-·························-··-···
D~espondence .Committee ............................................. .
500.00
750.00
Empl~;~;~t&;~t=~s;······--························--··········--·············

~~~E1~~p~e~i··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~;t~g M;~l,·~-n~~::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~ast Bay ··-··········-··············--·························$2,500.00
resno .............................................................. 282.00
tng Beach .................................................... 1,613.00
s Angeles ...............- ................................... 6,500.00
Sacr~ento ·····--························-··················· 750.00
San Diego ......................................................... 2,359.00
End:~;:ia~c~~~ ···:··········--·····················--········· 2,000.00
H" to
•.. ·-··-····························-··-······-······-···

iJo~atY<>°:C~~iit~~-·-·-·························
·······-··-·--········.
................... -..............................................

303

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

16,004.00
8,000.00
50.00
500.00

800.00
Lodge Finance Commtttee......................... _......,:;.,........... .
3,000.00
Public Schools Week..:_...................................................... .
2,500.00
Publication.1 Conunittee ·······················--···············-···········
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley ........................................................$23,210.00
Los Angeles -·-··-···-·------···----·--··------··------··· 19,165.00 42,375.00
Hyam Monument -··-···································--·"-··h•--500.00
Lassen Burial Ground....................................... ............~ ..-- _ _9_0_o._o_o
$95,470.00
Total Appropriations ........................................ .

October 3, 1951

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California:

AUDIT OF 1951 RETURNS
Gentlemen:
We have audited the current 1951 annual returns from constituent
Lodges up to and including October 3, 1951. As determined from the
returns, the following amounts are collectible:
Grand Lodge:
Degrees conferred ............................ 26,605 @ $1.00 $ 26,605.00
Per capita:
1951 membership .......................... 202,500
Less, dues remitted........................
2,538
Net ............................................ 199,962 @ $1.10
219,958.20
Total due ·-····......................... ---·--···--··--··-······--·----·----····--$246,563.20
Collecteti and transferred to Grand Treasurer.................... 245,916.30
Balance due ............................................................................$
646.90
Masonic Homes:
Fourth quarter 1951, $25.00 contributions.......................... $ 71,750.00
Per capita 199,962 members @ $1.00.................................. 199,962.00
Total due ............................................:................................. $271,712.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.................... 271,712.00
George Washington Memorial Endowment Contributions:
Fourth quarter 1951, $1.00 contributions............................ $ 2,666.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer....................
2,666.00
All returns have been received and paid in full in accordance with
the amount shown by the returns as computed. The balance still due
represents errors made in various returns and are now in process of
collection.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Ce~ifled Public Accountants
WALTER A. PARKER

304

305

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

counts of the Grand Treasurer. Disbursements were made by checks and
supported by properly approved vouchers. The disbursements made by the
Grand Secretary were from his Operating Fund bank account. Reimbursements to the Operating Fund by the Grand Treasurer were not made until
we had audited and approved the bills, which was done monthly. During
the year we found that no bills were paid by the Grand Secretary unless the
expense was provided for in the budget and the appropriation had not been
exceeded, except when prior approval had been obtained from the Grand
Master.
Bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. A
certified list of the securities was received from the Anglo-California National
Bank, which holds the securities for safekeeping. All interest and dividends
due were received.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 has fulfilled its agreement during the year;
$150.00 monthly was paid by Grand Lodge and $100.00 monthly was received
by Grand Lodge from Sotoyome Lodge. No further payment from Grand
Lodge will be required as the annuitant died before the August payment was
made.
In our opinion, the attached statements present fairly the financial position of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California as at July 31, 1951, and the
result of its activities for the fiscal year 1950-51 in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California

September 27, 1951

Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the GRAND LODGE
F. & A. M. of CALIFORNIA for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1951 and
present herewith the following statements:
Consolidated Siaiemenis
Exhibit AA: Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities, Owned or
Under Control of Grand Lodge, July 31, 1951.
Exhibit BB: Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements,
from Funds of or Controlled by Grand Lodge, August 1, 1950 to July 31, 1951.
Grand Lodge
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets and Liabilities, July 31, 1951.
Schedule 1: List of Securities, July 31, 1951.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
1950 to July 31, 1951.
Schedule 2: Statement of Grand Lodg'e Per Capita Dues Collected from
1950 Annual Returns.
Schedule 3: Comparison of Budget and Expenditures, 1950-51.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1950 to July 31, 1951.
Exhibit D: Grand Secretary's Resume of Cash Received, August 1, 1950
to July 31, 1951.
·
Schedule 4: Statement of Masonic Homes Per Capita Dues and $25.00
Contributions Collected During the Year 1950-51.
COMMENTS
The revenue from per capita dues and other sources exceeded the expenses and appropriations by $39,296.3~, ~s shown o_n Jl'.xhi~it A. Included in
the expenses is the excess cost of prmtmg and distr1butmg the books on
"100 Years of Freemasonry in California" over the actual and expected sales.
This excess cost was computed as follows:
Total cost to date-..-·-···-.. ·····-..··-··-····-··-............-.........-....$ 55,134.98
Less, sales and charges--·-··-···-"•• ••00ooo••••oo••••Ooooooooo••••• 00 •00000•00o••• 40,933.50

Net cost of 346 sets on hand----·--···....- ............................ _ 14,201.48
Less, expected sales 300 @ $25.00.............................................. 7,500.00
Excess cost written off-····..·-·--·..····-····..--······..··········-..--...$ 6,701.48
The Centennial Celebration assessments collected during the past three
years are accounted for as follows:
Total assessments ..............._.....................................................--$1to,878.00
Expenses, net ........................................- .................................... _ 81,899.'75
Excess ·············-····--·········..........................:................................... 58,979.25
Refunded to Lodaes--···..;..........................................-·····-··-···- 46,959.71

band.-·····-····-----··-·-·-··-·-··-·.......,.

Balance cash on
.t 12,019.54
We audited the books and records of the Centennial Committee and found
that the Committee's manager had kept good records and all expenditures
·were supported by properly approved bills.
Our Schedules No. 2 and 4 show proof of the revenue due from the Lodges
in accordance with their 1950 annual returns and the $25.00 Homes contribution reports received up to July 31, 1951. The total revenue due, as shown,
agrees with the total cash received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary.
Cash receipt! were accounted for and deposited in the proper bank ac-

Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

307

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT
CONSOLIDATED STA TEMENT
OWNED OR UNDER CONTROL

AA
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
OF GRAND LODGE -JULY 31, 1951

ASSETS

Total

GrandLodge
(Exhibit A)

Endowment Fund Masonic Homes
(Exhibit A)
(Exhibit A)

33,883.13
20,000.00
500.00
---------------------------------------

$ 728,239.95
----------------------------------------------------------

$ 216,960.88
49,026.06
2,000.00
10,865.96
2,656.18

$

54,383.13

$ 728,239.95

$ 281,509.08

$

5,338.10

--------------------

Cash:
Custody of the Grand Treasurer._ _______________________________________________________________ _
Operating funds·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------······
Revolving funds ..... ------------------------------------------···-·--------------------------------············
Superintendents' accounts-Decoto and Covina Residents ..................
Deposits in transit.. ............... ---------------------------------------------------------------------······

$ 979,083.96
69,026.06
2,500.00
10,865.96
2,656.18

$

Total cash ......... ---------------------------------------------···------------------------------------------

$1,064,132.16
10,164.58

--------------------

Accounts Receivable __________________________________________________________________________________________ _

$

Investments:
In custody of Grand Treasurer:
Bonds.............. ------------------------------------------·········---------------------------------------------Stocks..............................................................................................................
Notes and contracts receivable·-···--·····---------·······-------------------------------······
In c~st?dy of Grand _S~cretary:
Life insurance policies _______________________________________________________________________________ _

$3,932,640. 70
1,659,840.56
49,622.25

$ 486,535.00
493,064.92
--------------------

$2,766,086.91
735,173.09
15,718.56

$ 680,018.79
431,602.55
33,903.69

Real estate·-··-·······-----------------------·-···············--···············---------------------······-·-···
Others ......·-----------------------------------------------------------···------------------------------·-·········
Total investments-------------------------------------------------------------------···············--·

8,358.75
2,849.00
2.00
$5,653,313.26

---------------------------------------------------------$ 979,599.92

14.00
-------------------2.00
$3,516,994.56

8,344.75
2,849.00
-------------------$1,156,718.78

Properties: (at cost)
Land, buildings and equipment-Decoto and Covina............................
Inventory of Stores and Supplies ___________________________________________________________________ _

$2,881,023.06
36,093.22

-------------------7,500.00

-------------------- -- -- - -- -- ---- --- -- -

$2,881,023.06
28,593.22

Total assets·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·

$9,644, 726.28

$1,046,821.15

$4,245 ,234.51

$4,352,670.62

$

4,826.48

-------

LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL

Liabilities:
Accounts payable............... ----------------------------------------------------------------------------··

$

Reserves:
'Funds held in trust and for special purposes ............................................
Capital .....................................................................................................................
Total liabilities, reserves and capital... ............................................. --

1,263,529.65
- 8,369,766.35
~9,644, 726.28

NOTE: The at>ove figures were compiled from the three separate audit
reports and can be found on Exhibit A of each report.

11,430.28

$

6,356.00

170,526.98
869,938.17
$1,046,821.15

$

518.70

-------------------4,244, 715.81
$4,245,234.51

$

4,555.58

1,093,002.67
3,255,112.37
$4,352,670.62

308

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

309

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
FROM FUNDS OF OR CONTROLLED BY GRAND

BB
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
J,ODGE-AUGUST 1, 1950 TO JULY 31, 1951
Custody

Babmee

August 1, 1950

Grand Lodge: (Exhibit B*)
General Fund --·······-···-··--~---·-··-················---$ 28,745.17
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Endowment Fund...........................
6,367.00
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial per capita fund................................. ....................
Centennial Celebration fund...............................
7'1,305.00
Total Grand Lodge cash...:............................$ 112,417.67
Masonic Homes:
General Fund (Exhibit B•). .................................$ 89,266.80
Funds held in trust (Schedule 2*)...•....................
13,744.65
Funds reserved for special purposes
(Schedule 3*) .........................,..............................
12,223.96
Total Masonic Home cash..............................$ 115,235.41

Rec:etpla

Total

Disbursements

$1,043,009.94

$1,071,755.11

$1,035,747 .52

9,280.00

15,647.00

9,291.00

29,144.10
$1,169,061.07

29,144.10
164,932.53
- $1,281,478.74

$1,098,777.58
65,996.58

$1,188,044.38
79,741.23

$ 922,945.59
63,330.94

733.94
$1,165,508.10

12,957.90
$1,280,743.51

87,627.~

Endowment Fund:
Endowment Fund (Exhibit B*).....................- ..$ 490,484.81
$2,781,566.11
Luckenbach Fund (Exhibit C-)....•··-·············-·10,005.38
805.14
Total Endowment Fund cash......................"""'$-_,..49__,1__
,28~9-.9.,...5- $2,791,571.49
Consolidated cash totals..;·····························$ 718,943.03
NOTES: .

$5,126,140.66

• The Exhibits and Schedules referred to in parentheses indicate where ·t he de
Centennial Celebration receipts include $39,053.53 returned by the Centenn
Centennial Celebration disbursements include $46,959.71 refunded to Lodges.

t

t

$

36,007.59

o~

of Grand
Treuurer

Balance
July 31. 1951

$

15,507.59

6,356.00

6,356.00

.......................................
29,144.10
12,019.54
152,912.99:1:
54,383.13
$1,227,095.61
$

........................................

$

20,500.00

- ----

.............. ..........

.......................................
.................. . . . .................

12,019.54
33,883.13

$ 20,500.00

$ 265,098.79
16,410.29

$ 211,416.55
5,544.33

$ . 53,682.24
10,865.96

12,957.90
$ 999,234.43

....................................
$ 281,509.08

......................................
$ 216,960.88

$

$3,272,050.92
10,810.52
$3,282,861.44

$2,554,248.89
372.60
$2,554,621.49

$ 717,802.03
10,437.92
$ 728,239.95

$ 717,802.03
10,437.92
$ 728,239.95

$5,845,083.69

$4,780,951.53

$1,064,132.16

$ 979,083.96

$

tails may be found in the three separate audit reports.
ial Committee.

....................................
64,548.20
........................................

.......................................
.......................................

$

85,048.2~

310

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

311

Schedule l
Lis:t of Inves:tments
Exhibit A

July 31, 1951

S:ta:temen:t of Assets and Liabilities

Bonds:
$ 10,000 Southern Pacific Company, 4lf.i%, 1981...----------------------$ 9,565.00
135,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957 _________ ··--·-··-·----··-·-··-·-··· 99,900.00
Increase in redemption value of F bonds.......................... 11,070.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i %, 1953.·-·····-·---·····-·-- 10,000.00
40,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i %, 1958--------····-·-----····· 40,000.00
30,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i %, 1959·-···-···-··-·-·-------· 30,000.00
90,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i%, 1960--~----·-···········-- 90,000.00
196,000 U. S. Certificates of Indebtedness, 13/4%, 1955................ 196,000.00

July 31, 1951

Assets:
Cash in Banks
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts (Exhibit C) ........$ 33,883.13
Grand Secretary's bank accounts................................ 20,500.00 $

54,383.13

Investments: (Schedule 1)

Total bonds ···--···-······-········-·-····---···-·-····-··············-·············-·······- 486,535.00

~~o~'f:s ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :~g:~~~:~~

979,599.92

Other Assets:
Accounts receivable-Sotoyome Lodge No. 123....... . 5,050.00
Inventory of Masonic History books.............................. 7,500.00
Due from Lodges for public liability insurance....... .
288.10

12,838.10

Total assets ····--···-·-··-····-····-·-··-··-·········-···-··········-Liabili:ties
Accounts Payable:
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial for initiates'
contributions ............................................
6,356.00
Funds Held for Special Purposes:
Centennial Committee -··-···········-··---·-···-.$ 12,019.54
Memorial Temple Committee.................. 158,507.44 170,526.98

1,046,821.15

Total liabilities ·····--·--·--··-······-····---·-

176,882.98

Net assets···-·----·-·-··---···--···-------······

$ 869,938.17

Capital:
.
Balance, August 1, 1950..........--··--·--·-·--··---··-·
Add:
Excess of revenue over expense:
Revenue received: (Exhibit B)
By Grand Secretary.·-·---··-··------·-··-···
By Grand Treasurer.·---·-·-··-----·-·--·-···--

$236,214.60
29,396.02

Total revenue ·-··-·····-·-·--·····-······-···-·

265,610.62

$ 830,641.84

Less, expense:
Expenses and appropriations
(Exhibit B) ······-··-··-·····--·--------·-------·---····-$219,612. 71
Liability insurance adjustment................
.10
Excess cost of History publication......... 6,701.48 226,314.29
Excess revenue for the
year 1950-51 ····················-···-·····-·

39,296.33

Balance, July 31, 1951...---·······--··-·---··--·----·-

$ 869,938.17

S:tocka:
Shares:
4,525.24
150 Air Reduction CompanY--·----···-·-··-----·--·--···-···-······-··················4,862.84
75 Allied Chemical & Dye Corp·-·-···--·--····-··-···························-·2,711.80
90 American Home Products Corp.......---············-·-·-·-·-·············-·
300 American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp...................
4,402.90
2,317.48
15 American Telephone & Telegraph Co•...·-·-·-······--····-···-····---·
45 American Tobacco Company....................................................
2,909.32
75 Anaconda Copper Mining Company..................................... .
2,825.24
75 Anchor Hocking Glass Co........................................................ .
2,118.45
3,082.77
90 Anglo California National Bank....·-·-··--·--·······-·-·-····-------2,808.99
60 Armstrong Cork Company·-·--······---····-········-···-···-·-······-·-·········
2,730.00
60 Bankers Trust Company....·-··-···-·····--···---·······-·-·--·-·--··············2,622.50
90 Best & Company·-···--··--···-·-···-···--·-····-············-·····------············-···
4,517.00
45 Canada Dry Gingerale, 41/4. % pfd.·-·-·····--········-··--··-·-··-·-·-······
2,765.63
75 Chase National Bank..·-··--·-···-·-·-·----·--·····-·---------·--·····-····-·-·····
60 Chemical Bank & Trust Company..........................................
2,610.00
872,36
20 Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company.·-·-----··-···········-··-3,867.90
75 ComII)ercial Credit Company·····--·············-··-·-··-·-···--··············
3,004.41
47 Corn Products Refining Company.·--···-······-···----········-·-····-····
1,677.20
75 Detroit Edison Company...·-·-········-··-·-··-·········---··················--··
4,348.28
45 Food Machinery Chemical Corp., 31/•%, pfd.-----------···---·-·--·
5,102.57
90 Glidden Company, 4lf.i%, pfd..·-··-··-··········-·--··-·····--·-··-·--·-2,969.21
45 Hercules Powder Company... ·-·······-····-······-······--····-·····-··-····-··
2,542.58
75 Illinois Power Company..........·-··---····-··-···········-····-···-···-····-····
2,882.67
45 Jewel Tea Company.........................~---······-······-·····-······-··-·-----2,467.20
75 Libbey Owens Ford Glass Company.·-···--···-·····--·--············---4,611.19
60 Liquid Carbonic Corp., 3 lf.i % , pfd.....·-······----···-·······-----·
2,385.00
45 Manufacturers Trust CompanY---------··--··-··-····----·····-·--·······-33,985 Masonic Temple Association of California.·--·-·-······-·-···-··---- 339,850.00
3,216.07
150 Montana Power CompanY---··-······-·--····-·-·······-···--·--····---·--·······
2,814.07
45 Montgomery Ward & CompanY---------···-··-·····-·····--·-·-····-····-···
3,220.18
75 National Cash Register Company.·-·-··-··---···----------····-····-·-···
3,119.56
132 New York State Electric & Gas Company.·-----····-·-········-----·
4,308.23
165 Niagara Mohawk Power Company.....·-··········-·-······----------·--·
3,007.79
300 Northern States Power Company............................................
2,888.72
99 Ohio Edison Company..·-·····--····-···--·--············-····--··-·······-·····-·
2,941.68
90 Otis Elevator Company..·-·-·····--·---·-·········------·-······-·········-······
2,438.63
75 Pacific Gas & Electric Company...·-····-···--·-········---········----···
3,318.76
90 Penick & Ford, Ltd.................................................................... .
4,586.93
180 Philadelphia Electric Co., $1-pfd ........................................ .
4,496.28
198 Public Service Electric & Gas Company..............................
2,997,46
120 Public Service Companr of Indiana..................................... .
4,889.06
165 Southern California Edison Co., 4.48%, pfd........................ .
2,756.35
120 Standard Brands, Inc---------------·-·-"··-········-··-···-

312

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

2,465.24
45 Sunshine Biscuit, Inc.-·-··--·-···········-··-·······················
4,913.85
45 United Aircraft Corp., 15~-~cL··-···-··-·······························
3,488.90
75 United Shoe Machine17 \.AJl'P-·-·----·· ·····-··-·················
150 Wisconsin Electric Power COmpany._·-············-················· . 2,653.73
105 York Corp., 4%%, pfd.•.·-··---·-··-····-· ·-·-····-····-···· · __; 4,152.64

___

· --··-·---··-··· ··- 493,064.92
Total Stocks -··---···-···· --·Total securities (in custody of Grand Treasurer) ...... $979,599.92
ExhibitB
Statemeni of Cash Bec:eipu and Diabur1ement1
August 1. 1950 to July 31, 1951
Cash Balance, August 1, 1915(L--··-······················-·······
Bec:eiTed by the Grand Secretary
Dues from Lodgea, 1950 annual returns
-·-·-····-·····--···· ··.$ 212,293.30
(Schedule 2)
317.15
Dues from Lodges, prior years.--··-·-- -···-·-·--·930.00
Charters and dispensations................................................
Sales of Supplies.................................................................. 20,088.27
2,335.88
Lodge officers surety bond premiums..........................
250.00
Columbia Temple rental--·-··--·· ···- - ··-··-·-·····

$112,417.67

678.58
9,642.77
3,375.00
12,568.72
3,130.95

744,429.10

1,281,478.74
Total to account for--··-····-··--······---·
Diaburnmenta
139,386.90
By Grand ~
By Grand Treasurer......................................---··············· 1,087,708.81 1,227,095.61
Cash Balance, July 31, 1951:
Grand Secretary's bank accounts............·-·····-·-.......
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts...- ..·-····-·················

Refunded through collections:
Supplies purchased for resale..._.._.$
Lodge officers surety bond
·-··-··-··
·············-··-·······
premiums
of prior
to Lodges
Refund
years' dues ··-·····-···················-·······

Disbursed by - Grand
Grand
Secretary
Treasurer
2,231.44 $ 12,578.57 $

Administrative and office: (Schedule 3)
-········-·-·····
Salaries ·········-·-··········-··
Rent ........................................................
Audit ·····-········-······-········-········--··-···
Grand Treasurer ·····-·-········-···-··· ····
Postage and express ·············-·········
Telephone and telegraph........·-··-···
Bonds, supplies and sundry..·-·-····
Social Security and Unemployment
taxes ·········-············-····-··········-·········
Investment council -···········-······-·······

20,500.00
33,883.13 $ 54,383.13

General expense: (Schedule 3)
Annual communication ·····-·············
Conference expense ···········---·-··-·
Grand Lodge Officers travel
expense -·-··········-·····························
Grand Lodge Officers regalia............
Grand Organist-Gran d Tiler..........
Grand Master's travel expense........
Grand Master's miscellaneous
expense ·····-········-·····························
Grand Lecturer ····-········-··-···············
Inspectors aprons and stationery....
Po.rtrfiit of Grand Master............·-···
Prmtmg ····················-·······················-···
Pay of members ····-···-···········--·· -···
Ritual Committee and inspectors
-traveling ·---··-··-··-··--·· -··--·Grand Master's relief.·-·····-··--·· ···-··
Retirement pay ····-·-·······-·--··· ······
···
Veterans buttons ····-······-···-·-····
·
Miscellaneous:
Grand Master's present ·············Expense-P.G.M .'s portraits ···-·Office furniture and equipment....
Floater insurance Grand
Lod~e equipment ···--··-········-···
Sundries ··-·····-····-··-···········--·····-

Total
14,810.01

1,557.25

1,557.25

307.65

307.65
16,674.91

274.31

900.00

32,793.77
6,000.00
950.00
1,063.71
1,122.82
1,179.41
1,210.61

32,793.77
6,000.00
950.00
1,063.71
1,397.13
1,179.41
1,210.61

891.85

891.85
900.00

Total administrative and office

---- 424,631.97
Total cash received by Grand Secretary........

29,396.02
Total revenue receipts.....-·-····-····-······-······-· 715,033.08
···········-··-·--··-·
Securities sold -----··-·-···-··
Total cash received by Grand Treasurer..·-···

Diaburnmeni1:

Total refundable........·-······-···

Total revenue receipta...-···-··--······················· 236,214.60
7,641.60
Refund of expenses.••.·-················-··········-··-·····················
Per capita dues for special purposes: (Schedule 2)
Centennial Celebration ................................................ 48,573.50
George Washington National Memorial.................... 29,144.10
Initiates' contributions to George Washington
9,280.00
Masonic National Memorial..........................................
Public liability insurance for Lodges....._....................... 12,591.14
1,200.00
Payments from Sotoyome Lodge No. 123·-··················
39,053.53
Refund by Centennial Committee...-·-··-·················· ··· 40,933.50
Sales '100 Years of Freemasonry in California............
Bec:ei't'ed by the Grand Treasurer
Bank interest --·-·--··-··- --··-·----·· --··Bond interest ····--··--· --···---··- ·--·Interest accrued on "F" bonda........·-··-······--··-·-··· ····
-·-····-····---·-- ···
Dividends ................- - · ··--·-.....·-..- ..- ..----··-···
Profit on securities sold

313

46,386.48 .
500.00

400.00
7,000.00

2,788.92
875.40

3,288.92
875.40

6,068.65
5,187.07

6,068.65
5,187.07
400.00
7,000.00

2,000.00

9,070.43
24,869.77

600.00
1,379.20
750.00
6,569.05
133.92

2,000.00
600.00
1,379.20
750.00
15,639.48
25,003.69

8,475.95
1,121.28
900.00
969.39

8,475.95
1,121.28
900.00
969.39

500.00
186.74
652.40

500.00
186.74
652.40

174.92
261.75

174.92
261.75

Total general expense ·····-···

81,434.84
1,213.01
83.02

1,213.01
83.02

314

Charters Committee ·····-········-·········
Club houses, Berkeley and
Los Angeles ···-······-··-·····················
Columbia Temple ..............................
Constitution Month Observance......
Correspondence Committee ............
De Molay Committee ·········-·············
Employment Bureaus ........................
Endowment Board ..............................
History Committee, includes cost
of preparation for publication......
Information Committee ....................
Lodge Finance Committee ............. .
Public Schools Committee ..............
Publications Committee ..................
War Program ···············-·····················
Reinbursement of Board of Relief..
Refund to Lorenzo Lodge No. 709....

41,000.00

14,270.00
3,702.75

515.45

515.45

3,711.24
180.29
132.88
229.34

41,000.00
3,711.24
180.29
132.88
229.34
14,270.00
5,777.72

2,074.97
2,741.25
75.00
649.20
2,492.12
529.10
1,286.11

125.00
105.75

2,741.25
75.00
649.20
2,492.12
529.10
1,286.11
125.00
105.75

Total appropriations ..............

75,116.48

Total disbursed for expenses..

219,612.71

Expenses refunded: (see receipts)
Masonic Homes salaries ....................
Columbia Temple ..............................
Grand Lodge Officers expense........
Postage ..................................................
Printing ···················-···························
Miscellaneous ·····-················-·············

6,000.00
234.33
709.03
261.05
316.95
120.24

6,000.00
234.33
709.03
261.05
316.95
120.24
7,641.60

Total expenses refunded ......
Advances to be refunded:
History publication-printing and
distribution cost ···············-··-·········
Public liability insurance ................
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ..................
Centennial Celebration Committee....
Centennial per capita refunded
to Lodges ···················-·························
George Washington National
Memorial:
Initiates contributions ......................
Per capita ·····-··-·································
Refund to Lodges ..............................
Stocks and bonds purchased................
Increase in redemption of ''F" bonds
transferred to interest income........

43,283.71
105,188.24

315

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

2,395.39
13,578.61
1,800.00
765.04

45,679.10
13,578.61
1,800.00
105,953.28

46,959.71

46,959.71

9,248.00
29,144.10
744,060.50

9,248.00
29,144.10
43.00
744,060.50

3,375.00

3,375.00

43.00

Total disbursements ..............$1,087,708.71 $139,386.90 $1,227,095.61

Schedule 2
Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected
From 1950 Annual Returns
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1951
Number Per Capita
Degrees Conferred:
Initiated -··-····-····--········--··············- ··-··· 9,183
P.assed ···--··-··--······--······--·--··--······-··--· 9,125
Raised ··-·--··-····-···-······-··---··-····-··-··-· 9,406
Total ··-··········-······:···················-····-····· 27,714

Amount

@

$1.00

$ 27,714.00

@

$1.35

262,296.90

Master Masons:
Membership -·-····-····-········- ···-·-········--···--196,800
Deduct, dues remitted ·········-··-··-···-··-2,506
Total dues paying members....·-··-···194,294

Total Grand Lodge dues as per
annual returns of 1950 ·········-··-···
$290,010.90
Disposition of Revenue
Grand Lodge ······························-··········--··--·-··-··--·····$212,298.80
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Fund; 194,294 members @ lk~-----··-··--·-·- 29,144.10
Centennial Celebration, 194,294 members @ 25c........ 48,573.50
Total as above - ·-······--·······-·--··-···-·-···

$290,010.90

Schedule 3
Comparison of Budget and Expenditures
Year 1950-51
Appropriation Expended Under Over•
Administrative and office:
Salaries ···--········-··-···-··············-··-··-···$33,000.00 $32,793.77 $ 206.23
Rent ·····-··-·--··-····-···-······-·--······-··· 6,000.00 6,000.00
Audit ···············-······-···-·······---·-·····-····
950.00
950.00
Grand Treasurer .................................... 1,200.00 1,063.71
136.29
Postage and express .............................. 2,250.00 1,397.13
852.87
70.59
Telephone and telegraph ···········-······· 1,250.00 1,179.41
39.39
Bonds, supplies and sundry ···--······· 1,250.00 1,210.61
Social Security and Un108.15
employment taxes ···········-················· 1,000.00
891.85
100.00
Investment council -·-··························· 1,000.00
900.00
Total administrative and office.. 47,900.00 46,386.48 1,513.52
General expense:
Annual communication .........................
Conference expense ·····-························
Grand Lodge officers' travel expense
Grand Lodge officers' regalia...............
Grand Organist-Grand Tiler..............
Grand Master's travel expense.............

5,000.00
1,000.00
6,500.00
5,370.00
400.00
7,000.00

3,288.92 1,711.08
875.40
124.60
6,068.65
431.35
5,187.07
182.93
400.00
7,000.00

316

Grand Master's miscellaneous

expense..·-··-··-····--·-·--··--········ 2,000.00

Exhibit C
2,000.00
600.00
1,379.20
$379.20
750.00
15,639.48 4,360.52
25,003.69
436.21

Grand Lecturer ---·--·······-··--·
600.00
Inspectors' aprons and stationery...... 1,000.00
Portrait of Grand Master ·····-··-····-···
750.00
Printing ---··---··-····-··-····-··--··-··· 20,000.00
Pay of members ···--····--··--····-·····- 25,439.90
Ritual Committee and
24.05
Inspectors-traveling ·················-····· 8,500.00 8,475.95
878.72
Grand Master relief ·---·······-············· 2,000.00 1,121.28
900.00
Retirement pay -·--··------··-····900.00
969.39
30.61
Veterans buttons ···-···················-·-····· 1,000.00
724.19 •
Miscellaneous -·······-··-····-·········--········ 2,500.00 1,775.81
Total general expense ....,..........$89,959.90 $81,434.84 $8,904.26 $379.20
Appropriations:
6,000.00
Activities Committee ············-····-······· 6,000.00
786.99
Board of Control ··········--····-·-········-· 2,000.00 1,213.01
734.55
515.45
Charters Committee · · -·-·-·-··- ··· 1,250.00
Club houses, Berkeley and
Los Angeles ··-·····-····-········-··-········· 41,000.00 41,000.00
436.24
Columbia Temple ·····-········-··-··-······· 3,275.00 3,711.24
819.71
Constitution Month Observance ...... 1,000.00
180.29
367.12
132.88
Correspondence Committee ..............
500.00
520.66
229.34
VeMolay Committee ···-······-········-··-···
750.00
Employment Bureaus ···-·····---········· 14,270.00 14,270.00
Endowment Board ................................ 6,800.00 5,777.72 1,022.28
History Committee -··-····-·---·············
150.00)
1,091.25
History publication ···-·······················- 1,500.00) 2,741.25
425.00
75.00
Information Committee ···--··-·-··-·
500.00
150.80
649.20
Lodge Finance Committee ········-·······
800.00
7.88
Public Schools Committee ···-········-··· 2,500.00 2,492.12
125.00
Reimbursement of Board of Relief....
125.00
600.00
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123................·-···
600.00
Refund to Lorenzo Lodge No. 709....
105.75
105.75
Total appropriations.................... 83,125.77 73,818.25 10,834.99 1,527.49
Expenditures Not Anticipated:•
Ceremonies Committee ···················-···
Publications Committee ·····-···············
War Program···-··-··-··-··············-·········
Total expenditures not
anticipated ..............................

317

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

83.02
529.10
1,286.11

83.02
529.10
1,286.11

1,898.23

1,898.23

Total ·--······-··-··-······-··-··-········.220,985.85 203,537.80 21,252.77 3,804.92"
Authorized by Grand Master•.................. 3,804.92

Grand Treuurer'a
Statement of Cub Receipts and Disbursements
August 1. 1950 to July 31. 1951

Cash Balance, August 1, 1950..·-··-··-··-··-······-·-··---- - - - $ 91,917.67
Receipts
From the Grand Secretary .......:..·-·--·-------t 424,631.97
26,265.07
Interest and dividends ···········-······-······-··········-·······
Sale of securities ··-·.,.··········-··-······-----····-- 718,164.03
1,169,061.07
Total receipts ···-··························"7··-··-··-·········
Total to account for.----·-··- ····-··-··
Disbursements
Reimbursing Grand Secretary's operating fund...... 139,386.90
Grand Treasurer's disbursements (Exhibit B>-··-··· 1,087,708.71

1,260,978.74

Total disbursements -········-····--········-··-·······
Cash Balance, July 31, 1951:
Crocker First National Banlt......·-··-··-··-·····-···
American Trust Company ···············-··-··········-···
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Company....
Anglo California National Bank ···············- ·······
Bank of California ···············-·-··-··-··-····-··-··- ···

1,227.095.61
8,929.71
50.00
7,398.08
11,516.64
5,988.70 $

Exhibit D
Grand Secretary's Resume of Cub Receind
August 1. 1950 to July 31, 1951

For Grand Lodge:
$ 424,631.97
Per capita dues, etc. (Exhibit B>···-······-··········-·······
For the Masonic Homes: (Schedule 4)
Per capita dues -·-······-··-··-·-··---······-······-··-·····$194,294.00
443,444.00
$25.00 contributions -·-··--··-··-··-···-··············-··· 249,150.00
For the Endowment Fund:
Donations and bequests···········-··-··········-··············-··· 357,792.04
Check from Triangle Lodge No. 541L-·-··-······-···
518.70

Schedule 4
Statement of Masonic Homes Per Capita and $25

Total expenditures ................................,..,..203,537.80

Conirihutiom Received

•Note: Items not covered by the budget and expenditures in excess of amount
in budget were not paid until approved by the Grand Master.

358.310.74
$1,226,386.71

Total received and transferred to Grand Treasurer

Total authorization -·-·------·-··-.2M.790.57
Unexpended appropriation ·········- ··········· 21,252.77

33,883.13

During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1951
Per Capita Duu-1950 Annual Reiurm:
Membership -·-··-·- ··-··---·--··---- 196.800
Deduct, dues remitted ···-··············-··- 2,506

Total dues paying members......,....,.... 194,294 @

$

1.00 $194,294.00

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$25.00 Home Contributions:
Amount due per 1950 annual returns:
Initiations ................ 9,183 ·
Affiliations .............. 741
E. A. and F. C ...·-···
36
Total ...................... 9,960

@

$

Deduct, payments received in advance
of annual returns and reported in
1950 proceedings ............................... .
Balance due with 1950 returns ............
Add, payments received in advance of
1951 returns ........................................
Total contributions received
during the year 1950·51..............
Total cash received by the Grand
Secretary and turned over to the
Treasurer of the Homes........................

319

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND AUDIT

25.00

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the accounts and records of the MASONIC ENDOW·
MENT FUND for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1951 and submit herewith the
following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets, July 31, 1951.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
1950 to July 31, 1951.
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, July 31, 1951.
Exhibit D: Statement of Income and Capital Accounts for the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1951.
Schedule 1: Securities on hand, July 31, 1951.
Schedule 2: Securities redeemed and ·sold during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1951.

249,000.00

171,475.00
77,525.00
171,625.00
249,150.00

COMMENTS

$443,444.00

Cash:
The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
All interest and dividends due from investments and saving bank accounts
were received ,b y the Grand Treasurer and deposited in the bank accounts
of the Masonic Homes. The total income received by the Homes from the
Endowment Funds amounted to $106,106,09.
Securities:
Securities on hand that were acquired in prior years, and securities
received through contributions and bequests and those purchased during
the current year are listed on Schedule 1. Securities redeemed and sold
during the current year are listed on Schedule 2.
Bonds purchased are listed at actual cost. Donated securities are listed
at market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the actual
value is unknown.
Certified lists of securities held for the account of the Endowment Fund
were received from the Anglo California National Bank. The records were
checked to these lists and the securities not listed were inspected by us at
the office of the Grand Secretary.
During the month of June a check for $518.70 was received from Triangle
Lodge No. 548 without any notation as to what it was for. The check was
assumed to be for Endowment Fund contributions and so deposited. In
August the Lodge claimed the check was an advance payment on its 1951
annual return therefore, the Endowment Fund owes the Lodge $518. 70
which we hav~ shown as a liability on the Endowment Fund's Statement of
Assets, Exhibit A.
Increase in Fund:
The combined assets of the Endowment Fund and the Luckenbach Fund
show the following increase for the current year:
Amount of funds, July 31, 1951....·-··-····························-····-·········$4,244,715.81
Amount of funds, July 31, 1950...........................................- .......... 3,856!514.17
Increase...-·-··-········-··---··-··-··-···-···--··--···-············' 388,201.64
The increase is accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests ···········································-····-······-$ 357,792.04
23,435.00
Securities by donation and bequest..·-··············-······-···················
6,974.60
Profit on sale of securities..·-·······-···········-··-··················-····-·········
Increase....--·--··---··--·--·-······---·--·-··-··-·····-·-' 388,201.64

320

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The donations received through Lodges were confirmed by correspondence with the individual Lodges as at June 15, 1951.

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT-ENDOWMENT FUND

Other Endowment Assets:
The books of the Masonic Homes carry the record of the Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund. After the death of the beneficiaries of this
fund, the remainder will be transferred to the Endowment Fund. Schedule
2 of the Masonic Homes report shows that this fund had a balance of
$20,974.70 as at July 31, 1951.
The Masonic Homes also hold several pieces of real estate for the account
of the Endowment Fund. Whenever a sale is made, the proceeds will be
deposited to the account of the Endowment Fund.
Certificate:
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund at July 31, 1951 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A Parker

321

Exhibit A
Statement of Assets
July 31, 1951

Endowment Fund:
Cash in savings account:
Anglo California National Bank....·-··-··············-··-·············-·-' 717,802.03
Securities-at book value:
(For details refer to Schedule 1 and 2)
Bonds ···-······-··············-······-·······································$2,718,672.67
Stocks ---··-···-······-····-·-·-····--········-·-·················· 727,883.09
Miscellaneous ·················-············-················-··-·······
15,734.56
Total ..............,.............................................................. 3,462,290.32
Deduct reserve for amortization
1,691.56
of bond premiums ···································-·············
Net book value of securities............................
3,460,598.76
Total assets ·········-···········--······-···················
Deduct liability to Triangle Lodge No. 548
for overpayment ........................................................

4,178,400.79

Net Endowment Fund assets..........·-······-·····
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund:
Cash in savings account:
Anglo California National Bank..........................
Securities--at book value:
(For details refer to Exhibit C>---··-············-···-

4,177,882.09

518.70

10,437.92
56,395.80

Total Luckenbach Fund assets........................

66,833.72

Grand Total Endo>VMent Fund Assets..·-····-····-·······

$4,244,715.81

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
(Not Including "Luckenbach Fund"-Exhibit C) ·
August 1, 1950 to July 31, 1951

Cash in banks, August 1, 1950-·······-··-····-···-····--······-·········-······· $ 490,484.81
Receipts
From the Grand Secretary:
Donations through Lodges..................$ 241,939.20
Donations from individuals
and organizations..............................
11,557.40
Memorial donations ........................... .
794.75
Bequests ................................................. . 103,500.69 $ 357,792.04
Securities redeemed and sold:
(Schedule 3)
Bonds .................................................. 2,415,972.28
Stocks ..................................................
6,153.50
Notes ....................................................
791.88 2,422,917.66

322

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

From Masonic Homes for annual
amortization of bond premiums........
Unidentified check from Triangle
Lodge No. 548 received in June,
intended for annual returns..............

323

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Exhibit D

337.71

Statement of Income and Capital Accounts
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1951

518.70

Total receipts ·········-·····················

2,781,566.11

Total to account for-················
Disbursements
Securities purchased:
Bonds ····-···-·--······-········-····- ·············
Stocks -····-··--·-··-····-······-···················

3,272,050.92

734,993. 75
609,806.77 1,343,900.52

Securities purchased and sold
.
during current year:
Bonds ···--··-··-········-························· 1,201,356.87
Stocks ··············-···-····-·······················
5,019.40 1,206,376.36
Payment to Masonic Homes for
interest on securities which was
3,972.01
added to redemption value.........-.........
Total disbursements ................

2,554,248.811

Cash in savings account, July 31, 1951
Anglo California National Bank. .........

717,802.03

Exhibit C
Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund"
July 31. 1951
Cash in Savings Account:
Anglo California National Bank....·-··- ---··-········-······•·····-··············· $10,437.92
Securities:
Bonds:
$ 9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co.,
·
General Lien, 3%, 204'1--··-········-·········-····-···$ 7,290.00
16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series
F, 1957 -····-··---··························-··-$11,988.00
Increased redemption value.......... 1,117.80 13,105.80
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series
G, 2Y.!%, 1954..................·-··--······················--····· 1,000.00
35,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series
G, 2~ %, 1957···-·-·-···-·-····-······-··-····-······-··· 35,000.00

Book value of securities....·-······-···.,..-····-····~·-·-······-············-····· 56,395.80
Total Luckenbach Fund Cash and Securities..........................................$66,833.'11

Income Accounts:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
Endowment Fund ····-·············-··········-····-············-···$104,601.69
Luckenbach Fund --·-··-··-··················--··--··--···-·-· ·· 1,842.11 $ 106,443.80
Deduct, annual amortization of bond premiums
restored to Endowment capital_......-··--········~··········-··-· $
337.71
Total income transferred to the Homes General Fund.............- .....$ 106,106.09
Capital Accounts:
Endowment Luckenbach Total
Balance, August 1, 1950............................$3,789,680.45 $66,833.72 $3,856,514.17
Additions to Funds:
Donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit B)...·-··-··-········-··--·
Securities: July 31, 1951 value........

357,792.04
23,319.48

357,792.04
23,319.48

Payments on note donated
current year ···········-·······················

115.52

115.52

Total donations and bequests..·--··· 381,227.04
Profit frem sale of securities:
Proceeds (Schedule 2) .................... 2,422,917.66
Less, book value .............................. 2,415,943.06

381,227.04

Net profit -·······-··············-·············
Total additions ..........................

•

10,005.38
10,005.38

2,432,923.04
2,425,948.44

6,974.60

6,974.60

388,201.64

388,201.64

Balance, July 31, 1951-.-.........................$4,177,882.09 $66,833.72 $4,244,715.81

Schedule 1
Regular Endowment Fund Securities
On Hand July 31. 1951
Bondi (Prior Yearsh
Book Value
$ 3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp., 20 year income,
51,2%, 1952. Donated. No interest received..·-··········-·-····$
1.00
5,000 Chicago Board of Education, 4%%, 1954............................
5,688.70
4,150.00
5,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series E, 11J53......·-··-····-··-·····-·······
2,175 U.S. Savings Bonds, Series F, 1954.----·-··-··-···········
1,609.50
4,025 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series F, 1955·-··-··-······-··-···············
2,978.50
138,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series F, 1956-·-·-··-··-··-··············· 102,578.42
555.00
750 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series F, 1960......-·-··-··-······r··-·······
Increased redemption value of E and F Bonds................
16,173.42
30,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 21i2%, 1953...- ...................
30,500.00
17,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 21,2 %, 1954..·-···················
17,200.00
85,000.00
85,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 21,2%, 1955..·-··-·-···-·······
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 21i2%, 1957...- ................... 100,000.00
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 21i2%, 1958-·-······-··········· . 100,000.00
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 21,2 %, 1959....~·-········-······· 100,000.00
980,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 2in%, 1960...-·-······-······· 980,000.00

324

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series G, 2'72%, 1961....
····-···
160,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1965....·-········-··-········-···········
165,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1969-64..·-·········-···..·-"··.........

325

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

100,000.00
160,000.00
168,346.88

Total bonds acquired prior to July 31, 1950........................$1,974,781.42
Bonds Purchased Current Year:
Book Value
$722,000 U. S. Treasury Notes, 1%%, 1955.-...·-···..·-··-··-···-····........$ 722,000.00
12,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2% %, 1980-75...............-...................
12,093.75
Total bonds purchased.• _ ._......- ......_.._.. _.,_..............- ...........$ 734,093.75
Donations and Bequests:
Estate of Lyle Graham:
$5,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1972-67................$4,837.50
8,000 West Shore Railroad Co., 1st Mortgage
Bonds, 4%, 2361...- ......................_......................... 4,960.00

9,797.50

Shares of Stock (Donated Prior Years):
1,370 Adams-Figueroa Investment Co........- ....•.- ...........................$
26 Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association..........................•
400 California Packing Corporation........................- .................
15 Cleveland Electric illuminating Co........ _.............................
200 Container Corporation of America_.. _..........--.-·.............-.
28 Deera & Co., 7% pfd.... _........................._................................
23 Detroit Edison Co_.. _..........- .................................... _...............
1 Granada Masonic Temple Association...............- ...............•
10 Healdsburg General Hospital............................... _...............•
31 Kansas Power & Light Co....- ..........................._ ...................
500 Los Angeles Biltmore Hotel Co...- ........_......--...................
20 Masonic Temple Association of California_........- ...............
90 Middle South Utilities, Inc....- ............................ _...................
11 Mt. Olivet Cemetery Co........................................_...............•
7 Needles Masonic Temple Association.......- .......................•
125 North American Co............................- .....................................
558 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% pfd............................ _...........
96 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 51h% pfd........- ..........-...............
1 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., common............- ......- ...............
2461h Pacific Western Oil Corporation......................................•
75 Pacific Western Oil Corporation pfd•...- ........._....................
37 Potomac Electric Power Co.........- ...- .....................- .....~.....
1 San Gabriel Masonic Temple Association........................•
1 Santa Ana Masonic Temple Association............................•
20 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles....................
267 Southern California Edison Co...._....................- ...··-······-···
4 Southern Realty Co......... _ .. _........--··- ··........ _..___,..........•
440 Standard Oil Company of California................- ..................
1 200 Title Insurance & Trust Co...·-······-·-·.....- ....·-··--......_...
'130 United Gas Corporation...............................................- ...........
1 Vista Masonic Temple ASsociation... _......- ........- ...............•
12 West Kentucky Coal Co.... _.. _:............- ...._ .......- ................_
36 Wisconsin Electric Power Co.......- ........._ ...........,........... ..

9,590.00
14.00
4,200.00
585.18
1,529.21
882.00
482.27
1.00
1.00
. 480.50
12,567.50
2.00
1,176.82
522.50
1.00
1,227.31
15,855.75
2,430.00
32.64
3,050.82
661.68
481.34
1.00
1.00
1,155.00
7,909.88
11.00
5,468.80
37,500.00
1,813.18
1.00
213.00
590.44

Total stocks acquired prior to July 31, 1950... .................$ 110,438.82
Shares of Stock Purchased Current Year:
Preferred
100 Allis Chalmers Mfg. Co., 3l/4 % _ _..__...............................$ 1},562.53
180 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, 4l/4%, pfd. ...................................,.... 18,068.40
180 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 3l/4%, pfd....................... 17,543.07
360 Glidden Co., 41,2%, pfd............................_.. _..........- ...... _..___... 20,333.12
240 Liquid Carbonic Corp., 3~ %, pfd...._.,_.. _...._.~..-··-··- ..--. 18,544.66

720 Philadelphia Electric Co., $1, pfd. ............................................
660 ~o~thern _California Edison Co., 4.48%, pfd...._.._ .....- ..-...
180 nited Aircraft Corp., 5%, pfd................................... ~.............
420 York Corporation, 411.!%, pfd. ....................................................

18,347.19
18,943.34
19,680.41
17,161.76

$158,184.48

Common
600 Air Reduction Co., Inc. ...........- ................_.." ..- """'-·..~·-..- -.$ 18,115.92
300 ~ed Chemical & Dye Corp .................................................... 19,501.61
360
erican Home Products ...........................................-............... 10,809.29
1,200 ~erican Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp............_....... 17,685.86
60
erican Telephone & Telegraph Co. .................................. 9,269.91
180 American Tobacco Co...........................................:..................... 11,754.47
300 Anaconda Copper Mining Co. .................................................... 10,810.23
300 Anchor Hocking Glass Co. .......................................................... 8,398.43
360 Anglo California National Bank ................................................ 12,339.18
240 Armstrong Cork Co. ..................................................................·.... 11,173.40
240 Bankers Trust Co. of New York................................................ 10,920.00
360 Best & Co., Inc........................ _..............................-................... 10,490.21
300 Chase National Bank of New York ........................................ 11,062.50
240 Chemical Bank and Trust Co. ···-··········..................................... 10,440.00
165 Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company ............................ 7,178.94
300 Chemical Credit Co. ....................................................................... 15,371.48
189 Com Products Refining Co........................-............................... 12,091.43
277 Detroit Edison Co. ........................................................................ 6,136.84
180 Hercules Powder Co....................-............................................... 11,876.02
180 Jewel Tea Co., Inc. ........................................................................ 11,530.87
300 Libbey Owens Ford Glass Co. .................................................... 9,881.40
180 Manufacturers Trust Co. .............................................................. 9,540.00
600 Montana Power Co....- ................................................................. 12,914.14
180 Montgomery Ward & Co., Inc..................................................... 11,255.10
300 National Cash Register Co. ........................................................ 12,580.05
528 New York State Electric & Gas Co............................_............. 12,528.46
660 Niagara Mohawk Power Co., Class A.........,-- .........- •.- ......... 17,238.98
1.;gg g}~~hif'd- States Power Co....................................... ~................. 12,031.46
io
ISon Co. ............................................................................ 11,551.27
360 Otis Elevator Co..............................................................- ............. 11,917.81
149 Pacific Gas & Electric Co. .......................................................... 4,858.01
360 Penick & Ford Ltd. ...................................................................... 13,249.53
480 Public Service Co. of Indiana .................................................... 11,989.82
792 Public Service Electric & Gas Co. .......................................... 18,135.66
480 Standard Brands, Inc. .................................................................. 10,547.47
180 Sunshine Biscuits, Inc. ................................................................ 9,848.83
13 United Gas Corporation ..............................................................
227.50
300 United Shoe Machinery Corporation ...................................... 13,855.94
600 Wisconsin Electric Power Co. .................................................. 10,514.27
Total...- ...............................................................................$4151,622.29
Donations and Bequests:
Estate of Lyle Graham:
50 shares Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co................... 1,437.50
15 shares J. P. Morgan & Co., Inc....- .................- .......... 3,825.00
50 shares National Shawmut Bank of Boston.............. 1,275.00
50 shares Standard Brands, Inc..._ ....................- ........... 1,100.00
Miscellaneous Securities, Etc. (Prior Years):
Fraternal Death Certificates:
9 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co., @ $100 par................$
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund... _.................................................
1 Masonic Temple Assn. of Sacramento,@ $100 par

9.00
1.00
1.00

17,435.00

326

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2, @ $20 par......

1.00

12.00

Insurance Policies:
$ 500 New York Life Insurance Co.............................
1,000 Reliance Life Insurance Co....................- ...........

1.00
1.00

2.00

---

Sundry Items:
Trustees Certificate, Bond & Mortgage Guarantee
1.00
Co., in liquidation............................................................
Note of A. R. Hummell. ..................................................... 2,836.49
Note of M. C. Hobson........................................................ 6,997.59
Oil and Gas Lease, Western Gulf Oil Co.......................
1.00

9,836.08

Total miscellaneous securities, prior years ............................

9,850.08

Estate of James L. Goode:
Note receivable-from sales of property...................... 6,000.00
Less, payments received................................................ 115.52

5,884.48

327

Stocks:
28 shares American Mutual Funds, Inc•.._ .............- ...................
100 shares Union Carbide & Carbon......................- ......................
Sale of rights.............................................___________ .......;.........

290.92
5,861.98•
.60

Notes:
Payments received on notes..........................................--..·····-·--·

791.88

Total Proceeds ................................................. _ .........- ..............$2.422,91'1.88

TOTAL SECURITIES ON HAND, ·JULY 31, 1951............................$3,462,290.32
Summary

Bonds:
Acquired prior years....................................................$1,974, 781.42
Purchased during the year 1950-51............................ 734,093.75
Donated and by bequests during the year 1950-51
9,797.50 $2,718,672.67
Stocks:
Acquired prior years....................................................
Purchased during the year 1950-51............................
Donated and by bequests during the year 1950-51

110,438.82
609,806.77
7,637.50

727,883.09

Miscellaneous:
Acquired prior years....................................................
Donated during the year 1950-51................................

9,850.08
5,884.48

15,734.56

Total...........................................................................................$3,462,290.n
Schedule2
Securities Redeemed and Sold
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1951
ENDOWMENT F'UND
Bonds:
Net Proceeds
$1,202,000 U.S. Certificates of Indebtedness,
1~%. 1951 ..........................................................................$1,202,150.00•
10,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 214%, 1956................................
10,221.88
1,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2'%%, 1960....... ~........................
1,070.31
315,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21/4%, 196.2-59............................ 318,445.31
3,538.28
3,500 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21/4%, 1962-59............................
100,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2\2%, 1969-64..........................., 101,609.38
275,500 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2\2%, 19'10-65............................ 279,589.45
15,222.66
15,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2\2 %, 19'10-65............................
180,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2\2%, 1972-67............................ 181,546.88
100,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1972-67............................ 100,859.38
200,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1972-67............................ 201,718.75

LUCKENBACH FUND
$10,000.00 U. S. Certificate of Indebtedness, 1 l/s % , 1950..................$
•Note: Purchased during current year.

10,005.38

328

329

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Investments:
At the request of the Board of Trustees, the securities held by the Homes
General Fund and those held by the various trust and special funds were
consolidated for the purposes of this report and are so listed on Schedule 1.
The trust funds' securities are still carried in separate portfolios and separate
bank accounts are maintained in order to account for each and every trust
fund in accordance with its agreement.
Bonds and stocks purchased are listed at cost; donated securities are
listed at market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the
actual value is unknown. Life insurance policies are recorded at the amol.\Ilt
due at the death of the insured, if determinable and the premiums are fully
paid up; otherwise, at a value of $1.00.
The notes and contracts receivable were received from the sale of property and are listed at the unpaid balance as at July 31, 1951. Monthly payments of principal and interest have been received.
All bonds, stocks and notes are held by the Anglo California National
Bank and the life insurance policies and deeds for the real estate are in the
office of the Grand Secretary. Those held by the bank were verified by a
certified list from the bank and those in the Grand Secretary's office were
inspected.
Properties:
The value of the properties as shown on the Balance Sheet, Exhibit A,
is the cost of the two homes at Decoto and Covina. During the current year
$16,819.56 was disbursed as part payment on the construction of employees
cottages at Covina.

Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the Masonic Homes
of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1951 and present herewith
the following statements:
Exhibit A: Balance Sheet, July 31, 1951.
Schedule 1: Statement of Securities, July 31, 1951.
Schedule 2: Statement of Funds Held in Trust.
Schedule 3: Statement of Funds Held for Special Purposes.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1,
1950 to July 31, 1951.
Exhibit C: Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fiscal Year ended
July 31, 1951.
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit E: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Exhibit F: Detailed Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit G: Detailed Operating Expense-Covina.
Comments
Cash:
All recorded receipts were properly accounted for and deposited in the
proper funds bank accounts. The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. The total cash is made up of the following
accounts, which now include all trust funds which were formerly listed
separately.
Treasurer's accounts:
American Trust Company, commercial ···························-·········$ 6,353.38
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co., commercial................. 28,848.93
Anglo California National Bank, savings .................................. 165,347.61
Bank of America, savings .............................................................. 4,821.63
Covina National Bank, savings ·······································-··········· 6,045.00
Operating accounts:
Decoto-Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co...........·-··········· 11,424.45
Covina-Security First National Bank ·································-··· 16,283.34
Covina National Bank.................................................... 21,3~8.27
Revolving Funds:
Decoto ·············································-······································-···········
500.00
Covina ···-······-··-··························-········································-··········· 1,500.00
Deposits in transit from Decoto and Covina........................·-······· 2,656.18
Total general fund cash..·-··-····;·········-··························· 265,098.79
Trust Funds-Treasurer's accounts:
Anglo California National Bank:
C. N. Flint Trust Fund···········-···················································
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund ···-··-··-······························-·············
Wadleigh Endowment Fund ......................................................
Scholarship Fund ···························-···········:····················-···········
Trust Funds-Superintendents' accounts:
Central Bank, Niles, Decoto residents ···································-···
Covina National Bank, Covina children ....................................

750.52
3,361.37
1,312.20
120.24
5,188.85
5,677.11

Total trust funds .......................................................................... 16,410.29
Total cash on hand and in banks........................................$281,509.08

Funds Held in Trust:
With the exception of the Residents' Deposits, these funds were created
by donation or by bequest to the Homes for a particular purpose. The activities of each fund during the current year are shown on our Schedule 2.
All income due on the investments of these funds was received and credited
to the proper fund. Annuity payments were made as called for by the
contracts carried by the Flint Annuity and Wadleigh Endowment Funds.
Payments from the other trust funds are in accordance with the agreements.
The Residents' Deposits are personal money of the Decoto residents and the
Covina children being held in bank accounts by the superintendents for
safe-keeping. The Wadleigh Endowment Fund is to be transferred to the
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund after the death of the annuitants.
Funds Held for Special Purposes:
The Lee R. Talbert Fund was created by bequest for the benefit of the
children at Covina, therefore, this fund has been transferred to the Covina
Special Fund. The Verbarg Fund was created by bequest for the benefit
of the Decoto residents; therefore, this fund has been transferred to the
Decoto Special Fund. This was done in order to decrease the number of
separate funds carried by the Homes.
The remaining funds were created by the Board of Trustees to set aside
money that is to be used only for the purpose indicated by the title of the
fund. The Unappropriated Reserve account (formerly named ''Decoto
Monthly Grant Fund") was built up mainly from contributions of money
and property from the Decoto residents and is to be used to pay the monthly
allowance to the Decoto residents and for any other purpose except for
direct operating expenses of the Homes.
The activities of these special funds during the current year are shown
on our Schedule 3.
Total Funds of the Homes:
A summary of all funds of the Masonic Homes as at July 31, 1951 is
shown below:
Homes General Fund ···········-······-······-······-··:···-··-··-··-··············-$3,255,112.37
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund···-··········-··-······'-·····-···-··········-···········
90,537.37
C. N. Flint Trust Fund ·······-······-··-··-··············-··--··-··-······-··· 230,428.96

330

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA

PROCBBDINGS OF THB

George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund............
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund......................---···········-···
Covina Special Fund ............... _.._____ ...............................................
Dectoto Special Fund ........... _.........................................................
Entertainment Fund ·---··-··-··............................ _...........................
Funeral Fund ........................................... _..................................- .....
Reserve for Additions and Replacements....................................
Unappropriated Reserve •..-.............................................................

20,000.00
62,037.44
84,942.01
56,005.73
22,560.11
46,704.14
326,548.50
117,098.83

Total.-...............................................................................$4,311,973.48
Revenue and Expenses:
A detailed audit was made of the revenue and expense accounts and we
satisfied ourselves as to the general correctness of the accounting records.
The Endowment Fund income received is in agreement with the Endowi;rient
Fund audit. Interest and dividends due on the investments were received.
All records of the contributions received through Lodges were examined
and the amounts received appear to be all that can be collected. All disbursements were made by checks and supported by proper vouchers.
The 1950 annual returns from the Lodges were audited and the $25.00
contributions thereon, plus the contributions received up to July 31, 1951,
agree with the amount turned over to the Treasurer by the Grand Secretary.
The per capita on 194,294 members at $1.00, in amount $194,294.00, was also
received by the Treasurer from the Grand Secretary.
The operations of the Masonic Homes resulted in an excess of revenue
over expense amounting to $113,622.63, as shown in Exhibit C.
Certificate:
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Masonic Homes of California at July 31, 1951 and the res~lt
of its operations for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1951, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker
Exhibit A
Balance Sheet
July 31, 1951
Assets
Cash on Hand and in Banks ........................................
$ 281,509.08
Accounts Receivable:
Employees, children and others ..............................
4,826.48
Investments (Schedule 11 ............................................
1,156,718.78
Properties: (at cost-no de~reciation taken)
Land, Buildings and eqwpment-Decoto..............$2,25'8,109.52
Land, Buildings and equipment-Covina... ........... 622,913.54 2,881,023.06
Stores and Supplies:
Decoto ............................................................................
Covina ...........-··-··--····-··--··-······.................................
Total assets --·---·-·-··········-·--····---········.........
Liabilities, Reserves and Capital
Liabilities:
Accounts payable ----···-········--··-···.......................- ..
Funds Held in Trust (Schedule 2) ...........-.-...............
Funds Reserved for Special Purposes (Schedule 3)
Total liabilities and reserves ...............- ...........

18,640.70
9,952.52

28,593.22
$4,352,670.62

$

4,555.58
439,143.35
653,859.32

1,097,558.25

Cal.ital:

331

.

alance, August 1, 1950 ........... _...............................$3,123,670.18

Add:

New buildings at Covina transferred
from Building Fund ............................................
New certificate for 40 shares
Glendora Water Co.-.....,......................-...........
Excess of revenue over expense for the
fiscal year 1950-51 (Exhibit C)..........................

16,819.56
1,000.00
113,622.63

Balance, July 31, 1951 .......- ..- ......- ......................... ..

3,255,112.37

Total liabilities, reserves and capital.......... .

$4,352,670.62

Schedule 1
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES OWNED
July 31. 1951

Bonds:
.... Book Value
500 Dominion of Canada, 3%, 1959.............- .........................$
500.00
5,000 810 South Spring Building Co., 5%, 1956...................... 4,450.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970................................ 5,100.00-S
4,000 Southern California Gas Co., 31/,%, 1970...................... 4,270.00-S
5,000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%,1971.............................. 5,150.00-S
100 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1955..................................
74.00-S
42,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956...- ......................:...... 31,080.00-FA
125,675 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956.................................. 93,388.95-FT
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 195CL............................... 7,400.00-S
124,075 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956.................................. 92,018.97
13,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957.................................. 9,990.00-r.I'
10,100 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957.................................. 7,474.00-FA
2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959.................................. 1,628.00-FT
2,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1960.................................. 1,850.00
Increased redemption value of F bonds........................ 13,973.37-FT
Increased redemption value of F bonds........................ 5,022.00-FA
Increased redemption value of F bonds.....-................. 1,093.40-S
Increased redemption value of F bonds........................ 13,263.80
1,000 U.S. Savings Bonds series G, 21,2%, 1953...................... 1,000.00
8,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2% , 1954...................... 8,000.00-FT
1,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2 %, 1954...................... 1,000.00-FA
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955...................... 10,000.00-FT
5,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1955...................... 5,000.00-S
10,100 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1955...................... 10,100.00
600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1956......................
600.00
18,300 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1957...................... 18,300.00-FT
42,600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1957...................... 42,600.00-FA
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1957...................... 100,000.00
7,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958...................... 7,500.00-FT
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1959...................... 10,000.00-P
102,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959.........- ........... 102,405.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960..._ ................ 10,000.00-W
15,300 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1960...................... 15,300.00
10,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21/, %, 1959-62............................ 10,500.00-S
10,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1964-69............................ 10,000.00-P
4,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1965-70............................ 4,157.50-FT
10,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70.....- .................... 10,000.00-W
1,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1967-72............................ 1,000.00
5,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1965 ................................ 5,000.00-S
Total bonds ...................................................................... 680,188.99
Less reserve for amortization of bond premium....
170.20-S
Net book value .................................................... 680,018.79

$

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Stocks:
Shares:
250 A.IT Reduction Co. ·········-········-·································
125 Allied Chemical & Dye Corp•....·--·-·······················
250 American Fruit Growers ..........................................
150 American Home Products Corp.............................
500 American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Co ...... .
25 American Telephone & Telegraph Co...................
75 American Tobacco Co .............................................. .
62 American Trust Co .................................................. .
112 Amigos Oil Co .......................................................... .
25 Anaconda Copper Mining Co ................................ .
125 Anchor Hocking Glass Co ...................................... .
150 Anglo California National Bank ........................... .
10 Armour & Co., 6.00 pfd.......................................... .
100 Armstrong Cork Co .................................................. .
10 Associated Telephone Co., 41h % pfd .................... .
20 Axe Houghton Fund ............................................... .
506 Bank of America N. T. & S. A.........·-···················
130 Bank of America N. T. & S. A ............. ·-·················
100 Bankers Trust Co ...................................................... .
150 Best & Co.................................................................... .
50 Borden Co.................................................................. .
75 Canada Dry Gingerale, 4.25% pfd.......;.................
125 Chase National Bank ................................................
100 Chemical Bank & Trust Co.......................·-···········
125 Commercial Credit Co ............................................ .
15 Cooper Building, Inc., pfd........ .'............................. .
33 Corn Exchange Bank & Trust Co...........................
79 Corn Products Refining Co ...... :..........:.................. .
125 Detroit Edison Co .....................................................
1 Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Assn. ······················'·
1,200 Ewa Plantation Co................................................ :....
200 Food Machinery Chemical Corp.......................... .
75 Food Machinery Chemical Corp., 3 l/4 % pfd.......
50 Glidden Co., 41h % pfd............................................ .
40 Glendora Water Co.................................................. .
75 Hercules Powder Co................................................ .
103 Home Insurance Co. of New York....;•.............:....
32 Honolulu Oil Corp.....................................................
125 Illinois Power Co................................................:..... .
1,300 Imperial Oil, Ltd.......................................................
200 International Harvester Co.................................... .
75 Jewel Tea Co•........•.. _........................:....·-·······-·········
15 Kern County Mutual Building & Loan Assn.......
7,160 Kutz Canon Oil & Gas Co .........................................
125 Libbey Owens Ford Glass Co•................................
100 Liquid Carbonic Co., 31h % pfd.......'··-···················
100 Lone Star Gas Co.................................................... .
75 Manufacturers Trust Co....................................:......
6 Masonic Hall Assn. of Alameda............................. .
16 Masonic Temple Assn. of Fruitvale..................... .
2 Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton....................... .
250 Montana Power Co .................................................. .
75 Montgomery Ward Co .........._.................................. .
125 National Cash Register Co.................................... .
220 New York State Electric & Gas Co...................... .
275 Niagara Mohawk Power Co...................................
500 Northern States Power Co.................................... .
165 Ohio Edison Co.........................................................
150 Otis Elevator Co ...................................................... .

333

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7,538.88
8,154.91
1,500.00
4,670.21
7,375.60
4,085.83
4,825.30
2,990.29
1.00
941.75
3,442.81
5,143.65
600.00
5,244.91
220.00
144.60
8,321.21-FT
1,436.60
4,550.00
4,463.03
2,387.50
• 7,528.60
4,609.38
4,350.00
6,346.46
1.00
1,938.75
5,106.46
2,777.00
1.00
20,400.00
7,584.22-FT
7,246.68
2,829.42
1,000.00
5,031.76
3,350.00
1,280.00
4,237.63
20,637.50
6,780.02-FT
4,787.76
1,500.00
1,432.00
4,124.59
8,035.60
2,400.00
3,975.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
5,387.28
4,684.54
5,730.21
5,199.26
7,098.45
5,000.71
4,795.00
5,405.42

250 Pabco Products, Inc................................................ .
275 Pacific Gas & Electric Co........................................ .
139 Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 51h % pfd.................. .
527 Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 6% pfd-.....•......•..,........ .
67 Paci!ic Gas & Electric Co. 6% pfd ...................... .
150 Pemck & Ford, Ltd ..................................................
300 Philadelphia Electric Co., $1.00 pfd..........- ..........:
200 Phillips Petroleum Co...........................:.................
26 Pioneer Properties, Ltd........................................ .
200 Public Service Co. of Indiana ..............................::
330 Public Service Electric & Gas Co.....·-~-·-··········500 Remington Rand, Inc...............................................
51h San Dimas Company ............................................... .
160 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles ... .
125 Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% pfd........ .
41 Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% pfd ........ .
125 Southern California Edison Co., 4.48% pfd........ .
316 Southern California Edison Co., 4.48% pfd........ .
166 Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% pfd........ .
441 Southern California Edison Co., 4.48% pfd........ .
50 Southern California Edison Co., common........... .
20 Southern California Gas Co., 6% pfd ................ .
253 Southern Realty Co.................................................. .
200 Standard Brands, Inc.............................................. .
114 Standard Oil Co. of California............................... .
75 Sunshine Biscuits, Inc ............................................ .
500 Transamerica Corp...................................................
626 1h Transamerica Corp...................................................
75 United Aircraft Corp., 5% pfd.............................. .
125 United Shoe Machinery Corp ................................ .
20 United States Envelope Co., 7% pfd.................... .
1,200 Waialua Agricultural Co........................................ .
100 Walworth Co............................................................ .
250 Wisconsin Electric Power Co................................ .
175 Yor' Corp., 41h% pfd.............................................. .
Total Stocks ..............................................................

4,250.00
8,779.17
4,869.75
14,000.00-S
2,096.25
5,807.52
7,644.69
8,160.73-.FT
1.00
4,995.76
7,443.68
9,134.68-FT
1,072.50
8,850.00-FT
2,500.00-S
1,240.88
2,500.00-S
9,352.77
3,740.88
11,852.77
1,725.00
765.00
399.00-FT
4,480.64
3,520.70
4,121.37
5,873.25-FT
10,061.94
8,147.97
5,790.16
1,350.00
10,200.00
475.00
4,422.67
6,937.69
431,602.55

Insurance Policies:
Acacia Life Insurance Co.............:.......................................................
Ban~ers Na~ional Life Insura?ce Co............. ~·-·············-···········-···
Eqw able Life Assurance Society ......................................................
General American Life Insurance Society........................................
G. I. A. Relief Assn. to B. of L. E.-2 policies...........•.......- ............ .
Homesteaders Life Assn...................................................................... .
Locomotive Engineers Mutual Life & Accident Insurance Assn.
Marin Mutual Benefit Assn ................................................................ .
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.-16 policies............................... .
Native Daughters of the Golden West..•.....·-······················-·············
New York Life Insurance Co............................................:..................
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund ................................: ...................... .
Paul Revere Life Insurance Co•..·-·-··--··-····-··-··-····-·--·-······-·
Prudential Insurance Co. of American-22 policies..................... .
Reliance Life Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh....................................... .
State Mutual Life Insurance Co..........·-·-····-····-······-·······-··········-·
Travelers Insurance Co. of Hartford, Conn...................·-··--·········
Travelers, Aetna & Equitable Insurance Co....---··························
United Benefit Life Insurance Co.....·-··-····-····-~----·-·····.:. ..........:..
Widows and Orphans Fund:
Alhambra ..............................................................................•.............
California Bodies Scottish Rite-2 policies..............·-···-·············

118.90
1.00
1.00
471.78
1.00
1.00
693.00
1.00
1,439.23
1.00
2,000.00
1.00
259.00
1,903.00
245.84
1.00
1,000.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.00

334

335

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Williams Funeral Chapel ·········-················································
Women's Benefit Assn............................................................... .

200.00
1.00

Notes and C~~~~~s~~~~;~;i:cies ····························· ············
·
Agers, William H. and Lucile C.
Boucher, Claudia ........................................................................ .
Duke, Woodrow E. and Marcella E............•·-···-:--···-·········
Ervin, Artis and Annie Lee..·-···················-······--···-· ............
Gordon, Francis C. and Betty M .........................·-··-·· ............
Wilson, Richard and Rosetta..............·-······-··········-··- ........... .
Miller, Bradstreet and Carol ·············-········-····-··-······ ........... .

8,344.75
3,816.45
4,544.87
65.69
4,097.07
4,829.78
4,184.42
12,365.41-FT

Total notes and contracts receivable....·-············

33,903.69

Miscellaneous:
7 Letter of Patent ·····················································-····· ........... .
Real estate, unimproved, 24 parcels..·-··········-····-···· ............
Real estate, improved·························-······-······························
Real estate held for the Endowment Fund.........................

Nil
24.00
2,700.00
125.00

Total miscellaneous .............................................. .

2,849.00

Total securities ·····-··-··-····-··-·····················-$1,158,718. 78
NOTE: The above consolidated statement includes securities carried in
separate portfolios designed as indicated for the following trust
funds:
FT-C. N. Flint Trust Fund
FA-C. N. Flint Annuity Fund
P--George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
W-Harriett C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
&--Scholarship Fund
Schedule 2
Statement of Funds Held in Tru1t
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1951
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950-·--···-·--·······--····-·-·--····--·-····-········-' 88,708.37
Add, interest from investments ···································-········-·············
2,429.00
Total ..................................................................................................
Deduct, payments on contract................................................. ~................

91,137.37
600.00

Balance, July 31, UJ51.. .......-···-···-··-·······---····-····-··-·····················--' 90,537.37
C. N. Flint Trust Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950 -·--·--·--··-··-·--··--··-··--······-·• 215,771.84
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments........................................
9,448.72
Profit on sale of securities .................................................................. 14,655.12

George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950 ---·
..-.$ 21,497.25
Add, interest from investments ···-··················--·······-···--···········-···
518.79
Total ···-·····-·-········-··-·-···--···--·--····-·-··-·----·-···-----Deduct:
Amortization of premium on securities........................$ 371.87
Transfer of net income to date to
Decoto Special Fund ...................................................... 1,644.72....

22,016.04

2,016.04

Balance, July 31, 1951 ···················································--···
$ 20,000.00
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950........ ·-········-··--··-··---·-···········-·····-~···-' 64,535.26
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments....................$2,297.94
Less, reserve for amortization of bond
premiums ·········-············--·-··············-·······--······-···
17.76
2,280.18
Contributions ·····-······--··-···-···-·--··-··-·--·-··········-·····

37.00

Total ·············-········--···--········--·-···-·-··-····-······················
Deduct, disbursed for educational purposes........................................

66,852.44
4,815.00

Balance, July 31, 1951 :_________"'"__,___________._.h_ __,,_.,--$ 62,037.44
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950 ·--··-··------.---·-..,.--··-··-··•···-···~---$ 21,794.42
Add, interest from investments ···················--·--··················-··········-·
530.28
Total ···············-··-·-·······-··············-··-··············---·'""·-···-·· 22,324. 70
Deduct, payments on contracts ···--··-····-····-················-········-···········
1,350.00

-----

Balance, July 31, 1951 ···-·-··-···-·---·-.---·--·.......;......_._...... 20,974.70

-----

Residents Deposits
Decoto residents ·····-··-··-····-··---~---------·-----·.$
Covina children's ........:.........·-····-··-··-······-······--··---··-··--···-·····

9,372.77
5,669.11

-~-··········-·····--·--·-··-···-··---··-·--··-·········----'

15,041.88

. Endowment Fund
Real estate -······-·:·········--··-····-·······-···--,··--....-·----···-:_··----·:f

125.00

Total

Total funds held in trust....·-········-··-···-····-····---··········-* 439,143.35
Schedule 3
Statement of Funds Held for Special Purposes
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1951
Covina Special Fund

--------------·-··-·--··* 51,258.70

Total ···-··········-····················································-··-······················· 239,875.68
Deduct, transfer of net yield from investments to
9,448.72
Unappropriated Reserve (Monthly Grand Fund) ........................... .

Balance, August 1, 1950............
Add:
Bequests ·····-··-··············-············-···-···-·-··--··-······-·-.$28,298.63
Contributions ···········································--················-··· 1,910.00
Transfer of Talbert Fund·-·················-·····-·····-··-··-··- 12,195.20

Balance, July 31, 1911...........................................:.-··-·······-····-······,-····-' 230,426.96

Total ···-·············---·-··········---···--···-··--

42,403.83
93,662.53

336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Deduct:
Purchase of livestock ...................................................... 2,000.00
Part of purchase price of 2 station wagons
(balance paid from Beverly Management Fund) .. 3,475.02
Purchase of 1 Ford truck.-····-··-······-··--··--········-··-· 3,057.21
188.29
Sundries ·····-····································-··················-········-···

Summer Camp Fund

Balan~e, August 1, 1950 -··-··-----·-···--··-·-······-············.$ 28,469.88
Add, mterest from investments................_····---········-·························
884.00
8,720.52

Balance, July 31, 1951 ········-···-··-··-····-·-····-·----···--····--··-·····-$ 84,942.01
Decoto Special Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950 -·-----·-·-··--··--······--··-·-··········-' 17,710.32
Add:
Bequests ·····-·····---~·-······-··-·-··-···-·····························-.$215.091.17
Transfer of Perine Fund income .................................. 1,644.17
Transfer of Verbarg Fund .............................................. 12,889.07
39,624.41

Total ···········································-··-·······················
Deduct, purchase of 1 Ford truck..·--············-····-······-···

57,334.73
1,329.00

Balance, July 31, 1951 ··········-·------·--········-······--······-····--··········-$ 56,005.73
Entertainment Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950 ···--···-·--··-·-···-------~-----·····-········$ 24,299.81
Add:
Contributions ·····-··-································-·····:.·-···············$10,071.20
Interest from investments ·····-········-······--········-·········
250.00
10,321.20
Total ........................................................................

34,621.01

Deduct:
Decoto Christmas ···-························································· 2,016.00
Decoto Entertainment ..........................;........................... 2,264.08
Covina Entertainment····-············---~·-····························· 7,780.82

12,060.90

Balance, July 31, 1951 ---··--·----·--··--··-··-······--·-·····.$ 22,560.11
Funeral Fund
Received from Decoto Monthly Grant Fund
to establish fund ·····························---··························-$45,000.00
Add, monthly receipts from Monthly Grant Fund........ 5,432.62 $ 50,432.62

Deduct, funeral expense·······················-·····························

3,728.48

Balance, July 31, 1951 -··-··--·-··--·-········-·--····-··-··-············-··-' 46,704.14
Reserve for Additions and Replacements
{Formerly Building Fund)
Balance, August 1, 1950 ·-------··-·--··---··--········-··············-$ 211,582.08
Add:
Bequests ·····························-··············-··-··························-$86,248.39
Interest and dividends from investments.................... 19,482.54
Profit on sales of investments ...................................-...
120.06
From Summer Camp Fund ............................................ 29,353.88
135,204.87

Total ........................................................................
Deduct:
Replacements and repairs ..................:.....................·-··· 3,418.89
New buildings-Covina ·········-······················-··········-··· 16,819.56
Balance, July 31, 1951

337

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total ·····-··-·······················································-····························
Transferred to Reserve for Additions and Replacements..................

29,353.88

Balance, July 31, 1951....·-··-····-··-····-········-··-··-···--····---····-··-·····

Nil

Lee R. Talbert Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950....·-··---·-···-·-···-··-··-·······-···-··-·······-···--' 11,868.70
347,22
Add, dividends and interest from investments........·-·······················

Total···························································································-···
Deduct:
Loss on sale of securities.....- ...........................................$
20. 72
Transfer to Covina Special Fund........·-······················· 12,195.20

12,215.92

Balance, July 31, 1951 ............................................................................. .

Nil

12,215.92

Unappropriated Reserve
(Formerly Monthly Grant Fund)
Balance, August 1, 1950 ·-··-··-··-·-··-····---···--········-·-··--•·"...$ 113,253.03
Add:
Profit on sale of, and income from,
proJ?ert:y donated to. the fund ......................................$18,427.00
Contr1but1ons by applicants ............................................ 12,338.57
Pensions .............................................................................. 28,087.17
Deceased residents' deposits .......................................... 3,041.96
Transfer from C. N. Flint Trust Fund.......................... 9,448.72
71,343.42

Total ..........................................................................
Deduct:
Monthly graflts to residents ............................................ 17,065.00
Transfers to Funeral Fund ............................................ 50,432.62

184,596.45
67,497.62

Balance, July 31, 1951 -···-···-·-····---··-·-····-··-····-··-····-······-* 117,098.83
Verbarg Fund
Balance, August 1, 1950 ·-··--····-·--··-··-·-··--··----·-··-·---' 12,985.46
Add, dividends and interest from investments....................................
386.72

Total ................................................................................................
Deduct:
Purchase of hearing aid system for
Decoto auditorium ·--········-~·-······-··-·-····-··-......-..$ 483.11
Transfer to Decoto Special Fund·············-··················· 12,889.07

13,372.18

Balance, July 31, 1951 ..•..-··························-·····-···-···-·-··---······--··--

Nil

13,372.18

Total funds held for special purposes............·--··················$ 653,859.32

346,786.95

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements

20,238.45

August l. 1950 to July 31. 1951

----·····-··--·-··-···-·--··-··-··-··--···---··-·-* 326,548.50

29,353.88

General Fund:
Cash Balance, August 1, 1950-···-····--······-··-··--·····-···-·-·-·----.$

89,266.80

338

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Receipts:
Revenue Accounts:
$25.00 Homes contributions$249,150.00
current year ....·-··-··-···-··········..·······
820.00
Prior year $25.00 contributions..........
Per capita dues from Lodges194,294.00
1950 returns ........................._.............
Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ..............................$104,263.98
Luckenbach Fund .............................. 1,842.11 106,106.09
Contributions through Lodges:
For Decoto.............................................
For Covina ....._.................................._.

8,605.00
9,267.65

Income from investments .....................
Refund of expense:
50.00
Outside relief ..........- ..........................
Funeral expense ..........._.......- ........-. 6,084.56
Real estate taxes ....._.......................... 12,207.04
Miscellaneous revenue:
Fann rent--Decoto............................. .
Farm sales--Decoto..............................
Canteen--Decoto..................................
Sundry-Decoto.............- ....................
Farm sales--Covina............................
Canteen--Covina.................................
Fire loss--Coyina........................:··......
Sundry--Covma...................................
Total cash from revenue..........
For Account of Reserve and Trust
Funds .............-----··-..-··---··.................
Proceeds from Sale of Securities............
Sundries:
Accounts receivable ..............................
Children's accounts ....._.._...................

600.00
200.80
6,420.53
462.26
3,303.44
307.26
1,850.00
106.51

6,951.71
5,677.11

---Total receipts .............-_.............

339

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Social welfare affents:
Northern district ............................
Southern district ............................
Reimbursed Grand LodgeSecretary's and assistant's
salaries ..............................................
Pensions-retired employees ..........
Trustees' expenses ............................ .
Auditing __.........................................
Safekeeping of securities ..................
Telephone and postage ....................
Office supplies and printing ............
Legal and notarr fees ...._ ...............
Investment service ............................
Sundry expense ..................................

17,872.65
11,065.60

4,842.11
3,571.98
6,000.00
5,652.00
3,095.55
1,120.00
865.50
695.49
761.71
1,046.84
1,350.00
584.17

---Total disbursed for expenses..

For Account of Reserve and Trust
Funds .....- .................................................
Purchase of Securities .............- ...............
Sundries:
Advances for employees-to
be refunded .............- ....- ...................

18,341.60

13,250.80

55,624.66
509,733.85
115,590.91
289,081.60
8,539.23

Total disbursements ..................

922,945.59

Cash balance-General Fund ................
Add, cash in Trust Funds ........................

265,098.79
16,410.29

Total cash, July 31, 1951 ..........................

$

610,900.74

Exhibit C

367,237.36
108,010.66

Statement of Revenue and Expense
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1951

12,628.82

Total to account for ....................
Disbursements:
Expense Accounts:
$288,061.18
Operating expense-Decoto ..............
147,163.23
Operating expense-Covina ................
Funeral expense-Decoto
4,989.42
(fully refunded) ..................................
7,408.88
Outside relief ($50.00 refunded) ........
540.00
Outside care of children ....._........- .....
Canteen expense-Decoto (fully
5,659.78
refunded) ........................._.................
286.70
Expense of rental property ..,_...........
Administrative and general:
Taxes-real estate ($6,144.96
refunded) ...---·---·-......- ..--.$ 7,127.85
Taxes-payroll .........- ...-.................... 1,924.52
Insurance ___.._.... _......- ................-... 14,076.94
Refunds of $25.00 contributions
of prior years .................................. 2,050.00
Refunds of contributions paid
860.00
through Lodges to Covma ...- .....

281,509.08

1,098,777 .58
$1,188,044.38

Revenue:"
$25.00 Homes contributions current
year ....................................:.........................
$249,150.00
Per capita dues from Lodges--1950
returns -·----.............................................
194,294.00
Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ....................................$104,263.98
Luckenbach Fund .................................... 1,842.11 106,106.09
Contributions through Lodges:
For Decoto.....................................................
For Covina ..................................................
Income from investments-net................. _.
Interest accrued on U. S. Savings
Bonds, series F ...- .......................................
Profit on sale of securities.............................
Funeral expense refunds-net.....................
Refund of prior year taxes........................._.

8,805.00
8,407.65

17,012.65
10,778.90
2,000.00
966.09
1,095.14
6,062.08

Total revenue ................................
Expense:
Operation of Homes:
Decoto (Exhibit D) ..................................
Covina (Exhibit E) ....................................
Outside relief ............................................._

$587,464.95

282,697.19
135,446.55
7,358.88

340

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Outside care of children ·············-········-·····
Administrative and general:
982.89
Taxes-real estate ···-····-············-···········
Taxes-payroll ···············-······-··········- ····· 1,924.52
Insurance .................................................... 14,076.94
Refunds of $25.00 contributions of
prior years-net .................................... 1,230.00
Social welfare agents:
Northern district .................................... 4,842.11
Southern district .................................... 3,571.98
Secretary's and assistant's salaries........ 6,000.00
Pensions-retired employees ·········-····· 5,652.00
Trustees expenses ·········-························· 3,095.55
Auditing ...................................................... 1,120.00
Safekeeping of securities ........................
865.50
695.49
Telephone and postage ·····-·····················
Office supplies and printing ..................
761.71
Legal and notary fees .............................. 1,046.84
Investment service ·························-········· 1,350.00
584.17
Sundry expense ·····························-·········

Exhibit E
Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina

540.00

For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1951
•operating Expenses:
Main~e!lanc~ ····-·······················-··-·-········-············-·--·$125,624.37
Administrative expense ···--········-··-·-··················-·-· 16,985.49
Orchard expense -····-~·-···-··-·--··-······························· 2,453.89
Total (refer to Exhibit G for details)..._...........
$145,063.75
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed ···································-······· 3,582.91
Farm produce sold ·········-··-··-····-············-········-···- 3,303.44
467.08
Discounts earned ···············-································-······· ·
Fire loss recovery ·········-························-··-············-··· 1,850.00
307.26
Profit from canteen ···············-·····································
106.51
9,617.20
Sundry revenue -·············-···········································

47,799.70

Total expenses ···············-···············

473,842.32

Excess of Revenue Over Expenses............

$113,622.63

Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Opeuting Expenses-Decoto
•Operating Expense:
Maintenance ......................................................................$129,340.11
Hospital and medical ·····-················································· 70,078.13
Farm and garden ·········-··················································· 11,279.79
Laundry ·······················-····-····-················-··-··················· 9,409.23
Heating plant ···········································-········-······-·-··· 9,352.85
Paint shop ·········-··············································-··············· 2,422.05
Transportation ·······-························································· 1,159.14
General and administrative·········-····························-··· 55,087.70

2,988.09
3,161.38

6,149.47
$145,063.75

Detailed Operating Expenses-Decoto
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1951

5,431.81
$282,697.19

Maintenance:
Food:
Groceries ----····-··--··-·-····-··········$ 23,637.76
Meat ·····-··-··-····························--··············· 26,739.12
Fish ··-····················-······-··················-······· 2,026.35
Fruit and vegetables ................................ 11,591.54
Butter, milk and eggs ···-························· 28,779.13
Bakers' supplies ·······················-········--··· 3,465.48
Total food cost ·········-··················· 96,239.38
Less, charge to hospital for meals........ 21,353.87 $ 74,885.51

•Note: Total operating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures per Exhibit B ..................$288,061.18
(b) Add non-cash expense:
Farm produce consumed ·············-················· 3,408.00

Kitchen and dining room:
Repairs and maintenance ·············-··--···
Expense ·····-···············................................

Total ····-······-········-··············-····-··-··············· 291,469.18
(c) Less cash expended for increase in
stores inventory ·············-·················-··········· 3,340.18

Salaries and wages ···············-··-········-·······
Sundry:
Residents' supplies ·····-······--············-···
Dry goods and ·b edding ···--··-··-···--···

Total, as above..·-··-··-··-··-··············-·······-··

151,213.22

Total, as above ···············-·····························
Exhibit F

$288,129.00
3,408.00
200.80·
600.00
760.75
462.26

Net operating Expense ........................................................
$135,446.55
•Note: Total operating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures per Exhibit B ......:........_.
147,163.23
(b) Add non-cash items:
Farm produce consumed·····-··-···-··-··----·$ 3,582.91
Discounts .................................................:........
467.08
4,049.99
Total ·················-····-···································-··
(c) Deduct cash expended for:
Increase in stores inventory ..........................
Decrease in accounts payable ·····-···············

For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1951

Total (refer to Exhibit F for details) ..............
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed ·························-···················
Farm produce sold ···································- ·············'·····
Farm rent·······················--······················-·····················
Profit from canteen ···--············-·································
Sundry revenue ·····················································-·····
Net Operating Expense ....................................................

341

$288,129.00

Total maintenance expense ···-···

1,195.52
3,171.81

4,367.33
48,388.96

855.24
843.07

1,698.31
$129,340.11

342

Hospital and Medical:
Salaries and wages ····- ·········- ··-··--··- ·--········-···-·--···- 38,567.75
Meals to staff and patients ·····-··-·········'··- ····-········- ······· 21,353.87
Medical supplies ···--··- ···-···- ·-······-··- ····- ··-····-···-- ·· 4,693.50
894.00
Dental expense ·····-·······-··-··- -·····- ····----------·
Surgical expense ···-····- ····- ······-···············--··--··--··········· 3,018.98
111.75
Outside hospital care ·····-··-········-····-······--···-···- ·············
Eye, ear, nose and throat·········-········-··················-··········-· 1,438.28
Farm and Garden:
Salaries and wages ····-··- ···········-···········- ··-··-··-··-··Tools and equipment·····-······-····- ··-··········-·-···············
Seeds -·-········-····-··-·········-·····················- ·····- ··- ·· -··-··-···
Feed - - - ··- ··- ··--····-··-·--··-··-··················-·-·-···-···-··-··
Miscellaneous expense ·····- ---·--·-··-·...····- ·--·-··- ·- ...........

343

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

9,350.74
55.72
97.49
341.98
1,433.86

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries ···········-······-··········-··- ··················· 10,221.74
Supplies and repairs ................................
777.45
Replacements ···················- ··············-··-···
946.54

70,078.13

11,279.79

Laundry:
Salaries and wages ·························-························-··-··-···
Supplies and expense ···················- ·····································

8,098.92
1,310.31

Healing Plant:
Salaries and wages ................................................................
Repairs and maintenance ·································-·················

8,043.78
1,309.07

9,352.85

Paint Shop:
Salaries and wages ·····-······················-·································
Supplies and expense ···········································-·············

1,790.60
631.45

2,422.05

Transportation:
Salaries and wages ···································-········-··- ····-·······
Gasoline and oil ·······················-··················-················- ·····
Tires and repair& ·········--··················-··················-·········-

180.00
772.16
206.98

General and Adminisirailve:
Superintendent and office salaries .................................... 21,926.66
Light, heat, power and water···············- ··························· 20,301.86
837.36
Office supplies and printing -············································
Telephone and telegraph ·-··- ··························-················· 1,117.99
Repairs and maintenance .................................................... 8,864.61
Furniture and equipment ·············-··········-························· 1,096.36
942.86
Miscellaneous expense ·····-··················-·····························

9,409.23

Detailed Operating Expense-Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended Julr 31, 1851
Maintenance
Care of Children:
Food:
Meat···········- ·-·····-··--················-··-··-·····* 8,383.31
Fruits and vegetables ···-··-··-··-··-··-··· 2,958.08
Butter, milk and eggs ···········-··-··········· 7,623.76
Bakery goods ···········-··- ··-·······················- 1,966.31
Miscellaneous groceries .......................... 5,742.47
Outside meals ···········-······························· 3,117.65 $29,791.58

663.99
287.90
155.76

Laundry:
Salaries ···-············ ··-··································· 3,975.39
865.32
Supplies and repairs ................................
10.90
Replacements ······-···················-······-········

----

1,159.14

4,851.61

25,836.15

Hospital and medical:
Salaries ···-······-······················-··················· 6,826.02
Dentists' fees .............................................. 1,639.66
Medicine and drugs ................................ 1,253.07
240.66
Other supplies and repairs ....................
84.73
Replacements ·······-·························-··-···
779.28
Outside hospital and x-ray ....................
86.66
Diet supplement ........................................

10,910.08

----

242.68
$ 84,685.48

Total care of children ···············-··-···
General Hous~, Property and Farm Expense:
Power plant:
Salaries ........................................................ 2,900.58
Supplies and repairs ................................ 2,677.27
113.69
Replacements ·······························-···-·-···

----

55,087.70

1,107.65

Dormit<?ries:
Salaries ···············-··························-······-- · 21,936.69
Supplies and repairs ................................ 1,397.17
Replacements ·······-··································· 2,502.29

General expense:
Miscellaneous expense ............................

---- $288,129.00
Total Operating expense-Decoto ·············-·····················
ExhibitG

Clothing:
ReadY: to ·wear ·····:·····-····················-·······
Cleanmg and repair ···-···························
Dry goods and notions ···················- ·······

11,945.73

~itl:i;~
~-~~-~~-~~.:········-··-··················-··· 8,818.86
2,749.49
Supplies and repairs ·······-··········-······-

5,691.54

···
Replacements ···-··-···································

362.10

11,930.45

Farm and grounds:
Salaries ···········-······-······-···················-·-···
Supplies and repairs ·······-··-······-···········
Replacements ···································-·······
.AniJnal husbandry ·······················-··-·······
Swimming pool ···-···································

7,060.43
1,425.44
1,170.16
6,959.43
465.58

17,081.04

General expense:
Gas, water and light ···············-··········-··· 5,616.36
477.17
Sundry supplies and expense ................
142.33
Equipment expense ..................................

6,235~86

- ---

--- -

----

Total house, property and farm expense

$ 40,938.89

Total maintenance cost ···-···············

125,624.37

344

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Administrative Expense
Salaries ...................................................................................... 10,588.94
Static.mery, printing and postage ·····················-················· 1,606.95
Telephone and telegraph ...................................................... 1,288.26
Freight and express ···········-··- ··-······-······················-·········
89.72
Automobile expense ..............................................................' 2,703.61
Miscellaneous expense ···················-······-·····························
708.01

Total administrative expense ···············-·············
Orchard Expense
Salaries ·····································································-···············
Supplies and repairs ............................................................. .
Replacements ..........................................................................
Tractor fuel ·······························································-···········
Water ···········································································- ···········
Total orchard expense ..........................................
Total Operating Expense-:.covina ................................... .

345

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND

16,985.49
991.36
690.17
36.85
97.81
637.70

MemName
bership
1947
No.
1948
1949
1950
1951
1 California .................. 546 $ 386.75 $ 509.50 $ 649.50 $1,177 .50 $1,155.40
100.00
99.00
2 Western Star ............ 149
210.00 ............ 113.00
3 Tehama ...................... 761 1,325.50 1,355.00 1,544.00 1,569.50 1,542.50
91.00
218
244.50 120.50
5 Benicia
106.50
336.50
288.00
141.00 216.00
8 Tuolumn~··:::::::::::::::::: 246
181.50
248.50
178.50
9 Corinthian ............................ 418
163.00 181.50
340.50
328.50 361.50
344.50 375.50
10 San Jose .................... 533
242.00
202.00
117.00
38.50 208.50
12 Yount ............................................. 503
151.50
48.00
79.00
63.00
13 Nevada .............................. ......... 169
63.50
58.00
89.50
63.00
14 Temple ·······---···· ····· 202
38.00
95.00
114.00
101.00
154.50
Eureka
330
16
275.00 308.00
75.00
185.00
159.50
17 La Partai"i~·union:::: 119
150.50 247 .75
22.00
14.00
18 Mountain Shade ...... 49
425.00
322.00
768.00
201.50 321.70
19 San Joaquin·········-··· 770
659.00 1,157.50 743.00
20 Washington ........................ 773 1,155.80 1,095.00
21 Hawaiian ................................ 475 1,038.00 1,301.10 837.00 1,065.00 1,049.50
390.25
22 Occidental ···-·····----- . 725
395.00 418.50
496.00 345.50
114.64
66.02
23 Madison .................... 317
91.34 136.51
233.50
170.75
175.00
24 Mariposa .................... 198
102.50 197.50
22.00
12.50
57
15.00
25 Georgetown ..............
480.50
715.50
488.00 516.00
7.50
26 El Dorado .................. 257
39.50
8.00
27 Trinity························ 127
198.00
303.50
258.00
398.15
311.00 612.50
30 Golden Gate .............. 650
7.00
97.00
82.50
32 Gold Hill .................... 110
31.00
29.50
59.50
75
104.50
33 Ophir···-··-·················
78.00
1,857.00
2,312.50
2,270.30 1,964.00
35 san Diego .................. 977 2,124.98
76.50
30.00
30.00
50.00
53.00
37 Howard ·······-··-··..-··· 245
135.00
195.00
70.50 143.50
157.50
38 Santa Cruz ···-····--··· 494
388.00
776.00
731 1,152.71
774.40 1,119.39
40 Sacramento
769.00
246.00
312.35 365.18
41 Martinez , ......::::::::::::: 381
515.00 ............ 2,848.00
721.10
512.00
42 Los Angeles .............. 752
7.00
88
43 Hiram ........................
325.00 456.00
384.00 280.00
44 Mount Moriah .......... 416
327.50
185.00
45 Crescent ................... ______ 177
200.00 102.50
52
46 Texas ..........................
50.00
176.00 104.00
50 Forbestown ......................... 107
36.00
92
89.50
33.00
5.00
51 Illinoistown
82.00
48.50
115.50
208.50 181.00
55 Suisun ..........:::::::::::::: 213
165.50
62
131.00
91.50
91.00
56 Volcano ····-················
136.00
167.60 142.50
42.00 100.50
57 Santa Rosa ................ 599
2,075.70 1,004.00
58 Union .......................... 719 1,300.00 1,424.10
78.00
69.00
68
52.50
67.50
59 Gravel Range ..........
127.50
84.00
18.00
60 Plumas ···-········--·--·--· 204
426.00
825.00 1,440.00
61 Live Oak .................... 1040 1,177.00 1,100.00 940.00
170.50
214
133.00 154.25
64 Natoma
180.50 144.50
69.75
294.41
65 Amador :::::::::::::::::::::: 81
66 Forest ...........................................
29
..................... ......................
846.60
749.50
68 Morning Star ............ 630
890.50 1,000.00
827.00
70 Enterprise ................ 313
2.00 326.50
67.25
20.00
76 Bear Mountain ........
73
11.25
41.00
21.50
61.50
78 Calaveras .............................. 116
122.50
49.50
.
61.50
150.00
156.50
72.00 159.35
79 Humboldt .................. 444
16.00
17.00
80 Ione
88
19.50
63.50
58.00
81 Yolo ::::::::::::::::::::::::::
18.00
86
49.50
17.00
31.00
84 Vesper ···-······-··········· 229
17.00
9.00
14.50
87 Naval ·--···-···········--· 1184 2,161.15 2,116.40 1,683.70 1,419.79 1,953.90
89 Rose'1 Bar ................
18.00
30.00
34
8.00
11.00

-

..

2,453.89
$145,063.75

.

346
No.

91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
-123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mem1951
1950
1948
1949
bership
1947
Name
10.00
7.50
North Star ................ 63
109.50
46.00
190.06
84.50
St. Helena ................ 126
2.50 108.50
13.50
41.00
99.50
Henry Clay .............• 82
58.00
72.50
56.00
86.50
91.00
Hornitos ....... -....... . . . ...... 101
347.00 312.50 552.50
208.00
183.50
Yosemite --········-····· 452
23.00
53.50
60.50
60.00
77.00
Clay ............................ 91
133.50
26.00 118.00
55.50
338
209.00
Oroville ···-················· 541
250.00 300.00 250.00 250.00
250.00
Lexington ···-··-:-······
237.25
124.50 218.00 428.00
142.00
Arcata ----···- ··-"······ 279
30.00
10.00
73.00
101.75
187.50
Pajaro ····-···--········-·· 385
20.00 525.50
19.26
197.50
183.75
Chico ·····-·······--···............. 463
Summit ...................... 45
159.36
162.64 199.49 149.65
193.93
Eden .................... ._.................... 406
219.00 245.50 372.50
440.00
214.50
Concord ····--···-········· 353
228.00 332.50 819.QO 1,210.00
232.00
Fidelity ··-·················· 559
184.00 126.00 213.25
168.50
243.00
Alamo ····-················· 397
157.00
64.00
171.00
Sotoyome ........................... 185
38.00
53.50
80.00
38.50
Table Mountain ...... 175
34.00
93.50
9.50
Lafayette ----····-······ 218
171.00 183.50 156.00 204.50
172.00
Hermann ··---·······'"···· 208
1,153.50 1,462.25 1,317.20 1,624.50
Visalia ···-······-····- ····· 556 1,370.50
50.00
37.00
24.00
71.50
Nicolaus .................................. 108
16.00
135.25
25.00 123.00
27.50
Woodbridge ....................... 174
7.00 109.50 152.50
Sincerity ·····-············· 92
195.50
83.50
108.00
Vacaville ···-··············· 213
20.00
Valley .......................................... 92
75.50
199.50
39.00
Pacific -····-····----·····-··· 615
294.00
258.50 450.00 ·549.00 372.25
Crockett ····-···-·······-· 597
6.00
65.00
Curtis -·--··················· 70
26.00
20.00
22.00
43.00 248.75
Grafton . . .......................... ... 110
137.50 384.50 288.50
72.00
63.50
Franklin ···-·······--·-···· 138
595.50 458.00 528.50 785.00
288.50
Oriental ...................... 381
74.00
62.00
48.00
50.90
115.00
Vitruvius .................... 124
379.50 401.00 262.00 207.00
379.50
Abell ·----·--···-·---·······- 281
198.50
160.50
57.69 197.50
92.00
Eel River .................. 232
106.00
121.00 491.50 485.&5
199.00
Lassen ·················-····· 219
54.00
37.00
82.00
32.50
24.00
Molino ·················-····· 168
206.93
251.00 228.50
63.75
218.00
Wood.land .................. 279
Keystone .................... 29
41.00
21.00
57.00
30.00
Harmony .................... 21
475.00 714.00 684.00 702.00
61.50
Excelsior ·····-············· 517
100.50 184.00 295.50
75.00
57.00
Alameda .................... 170
387.00 ············ 1,142.00
345.50
Redwood City ........ 565
513.00
314.50
1,508.50 680.50
Mission ·····-······-·-·-···· 713 1,722.50
216.00 210.50 180.00
21.00
Elk Grove .................. 140
101.50
37.00
27.00
48.00
Drytown ..................... . ......... 43
9.00
319.00
247.70
163.00
Antioch ·····-··············· 331
Phoenix ............................. 661 1,407.96 1,408.59 819.70 1,464.85 1,349.35
69.50
81.00
23.00
82.50
Mendocino ........................... 125
78.00
42.00
88.00
105.50
Petaluma ................................ 337
69.00
32.00
38.00
73.00
Russian River .......... 116
41.00
Arbuckle ···············-··· 81
------- 58.00 7.00 18.00 3.00
Clear Lake ·······-······· 74
42.50
18.00
40
26.00
Sierra Valley ............
5.00
2ioo
20.00
Claiborne ··--····· ··~---·· 62
14.25
Evening Star ·-········· 53
99.00
5.00
44.00
46.00
8.00
Keith ·······-··-············· 182
907.00 570.00 760.00
634.50
830.50
Oakland . . .................. ......... 959
12.00
20.00
6.00
31.00
12.00
Northern Light ........ 89

Marin····-··-···············

540

537.50

351.50

353.00

335.91

477.25

No.
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241

242
243

244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
281

347

MemName
bership
1950
1947
1949
19!H
1948
Santa Barbara .......... 342
459.00 775.00
509.50 441.50 404.50
27.00
38.00
86.00
33.00
90.00
Ferndale ···-······-······ 101
281.00
74.25
80.50 419.50
Mountain View ·-····· 333
Buckeye ··- -··-··-···-- 137
109.00 204.00 188.00
303.00 245.00
250.50
15.00 248.50
95.20 101.20
San Simeon ···-········· 112
Wilmington ···- -.......... 562
688.50
851.00 596.00
767.50 1,059.50
Hartley ··---·--········· 240
15.00
48.50
31.00
64.00
67.00
12.00
54.00
49.50
Truckee - - ····-··---··· 110
351.85 308.00
151.00 163.50
Silveyville ···-····-··· 151
Pentalpha ·····-··-· ...... 550 1,530.75 1,462.50 1,213.00 1,159.50 1,465.50
Confidence
68.00
83.00
89.00
47
30.00
77.00
268.00 200.00
525
199.00 317.00 239.50
Salinas
50.00
2.00
143.00
144.50
91.00
Olivet -··-- ·-·-····· 110
522.25 687.50
778.65 564.50 729.75
Stanislaus ····- -···-····· 603
832.50 859.00
381.50 406.00 338.00
Anaheim ···--··--··· 429
Rio Vista ..................... 150
301.00 354.00
343.00 322.02 269.00
King David's ..•.•........ 410
904.00 868.00
293.50 449.50 602.80
294.00 415.50
387.50 455.00 471.50
Friendship ··- - ·-····· 716
30.00 361.10
79.50
61.50
84.50
San Benito ···-··--······ 160
So. San Francisco •... 261
302.50 277.50
136.00 151.50 189.00
San Buenaventura... 397 1,302.00 1,015.50 575.00
790.50 800.50
26.50 595.50
152.00 297.00 271.00
Oak Grove ··- ········· 637
Doric
358.50 232.00
506
83.50 102.50 123.50
Monter·;;~::=::::::::: 256
152.50 128.00
163.00 179.00 196.35
103.50 145.00 118.00 . 58.50
67.00
Mosaic ·········-··-······· 182
Speranza ltaliana ..... 320
350.00 367.50
364.50 351.50 286.00
1,068.30
712.00 811.00 975.85
1,095.75
Downey · -·- ········· 541
Inyo ............................... ....... 165
279.50 349.00
103.00 333.00 314.00
84.00
Roseville .................... 345
467.50 518.50
201.00 294.00
90.00 793.50 473.00 1,142.00 1,302.40
Bakersfield - -··-· ...... 787
78.00 467.00
315.50 204.00 233.00
Brooklyn ····-··········~··· 608
699.00 1,121.10
411.50 372.50 742.50
San Mateo ··-··········· 477
125.00
89.00
77.00
72.00
239.50
Athens ·---··-······· 164
31.00 655.00
564.52 467.50 305.50
Solano --~·-····-·-········· 580
7.00 115.50
173.00 157.00
North Butte .............. 197
91.00
74.50
14.00
Covelo ···--················· 67
44.00
'13.50 302.59
Janesville .................. 146
13.00 139.00
50.50
84.50
3.00
Calistoga •...•............... 112
57.00
71.50
144.00
Hope ............................ 126
65.50
34.00 128.00
Surprise Valley ........ 73
65.00 155.00
Hills Ferry ................ 155
104.00
95.00
438.00 420.50
Guadalupe ···-··········- 155
413.00 200.50 297.50
47.00
49.00
37.00
51.50
Colusa ··--···-··--------·· 157
59.25
133.00 1,085.16 1,169.50
675.50 1,278.00
Santa Ana .................. 580
891.50 1,025.00 1,068.00 1,112.00 1,113.50
Magnolia ·····-··-··· ...... 398
248.41 359.68
Eucalyptus ................ 439
232.50
13.00
141.75 246.75
309.05 405.00 322.00
Alcatraz ···--·······--·· 646
230.50 302.00
Laurel ........................ ........... 230
242.00 273.50 246.50
348.50 497.00
380.30 339.50 551.00
Pomona·······-············· 397
33.50 498.00
101.50 421.00
285.75
Fresno ···-··-···-········ 688
157.85 233.00
168.00
77.50
87.00
Alturas ····--··············· 178
25.00 122.50
54.50
151.00
86.50
Adin ............................ 100
22.88
34.50
30.70
47.40
Landmark . .................... 115
90.50
60.00
94.00
500.00 274.50
Reading ·········-··········· 212
111.20
169.00 242.00
Welcome ···-·-······ 204
22.50 310.00
323.50 408.10 172.00
Lodi ·--···················-- 374
103.40
47.00
25.00
104.50
Penrhyn ·········-········· 155
358.66 584.50
273.00 243.00 447.50
Evergreen .........- ....... 638
449.00 460.50
171.50 496.50 601.50
King Solomon's ........ 486
Tuscan ···--····-··········· 91

----==:::::::

-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

348

349

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mem1947
1948
1949
No.
Name
bership
546.75
332.50
262 Lompoc ·············-······· 183
264 Hesperian ............ ...... 353
687.50 603.50 319.50
42.00
124.50 148.50
265 Orland ·····-······-··· ...... 162
49.00
5.00
266 North East ···-····-······ 53
15.00
5.00
267 Galt ................•....•...... 80
401.00 438.22 318.00
268 Durant ·····-················· 541
86.00 319.50
269 Olive Branch ·····-······ 308
27.00
16.20
14.00
271 Snow Mountain ......... 41
383.00 970.00 1076.00
272 Pasadena .................... 544
273 Anchor ···- ····-··-····· 535 1,419.29 1,250.00 1,342.77
246.00
98.00
60.50
274 Arroyo ·········-····- ······· 149
119.50
23.00
178.37
275 Oakdale ................•..... 181
418.00 255.75
196.00
277 Selma .......................... 217
278 So. California ............ 517 1,160.00 1,139.00 1,310.50
364.00 440.50 485.50
279 Hanford ·········-- ··· ...... 219
202.50 243.50 237.00
280 Madera ...................... 258
96.00
2.00
77.00
281 Mount Shasta ···-······· 86
25.00
25.00
282 Callayomi .................. 64
283 South West ................ 416
341.75 348.00 312.50
285 San Miguel ................ 58
39.75
55.00
67.00
218.50
286 Paso Robles .............. · 245
92.00
149.00
332.75 358.75 294.72
287 Winnedumah ............ 195
47.31
74.79
288 Maxwell .................... 70
142.00
289 Elsinore ...................... 159
76.00
75.00
290 East Gate .................. 842 1,065.45 699.00 766.25
291 Santa Paula .............. 345
550.00 621.75
680.00
292 Los Gatos .................. 298
252.70 382.23
189.50
101.00 151.00 156.50
293 Orange Grove .......... 263
8.00
294 Traver ···- -················· 154
295 Mt. Jackson .............. 133
34.50
296 Silver Gate ................ 1189 1,207.65 1,039:50 1,136.50
407.58 222.18 321.50
297 Dunsmuir .................. 299
75.00 231.00 298.50
299 Liberty ...................... 312
403.00 265.50 358.00
300 Redlands ···- ········· ...... 433
249.50 220.00 189.00
301 Ontario ·····-····- ········· 367
352.50 220.50 304.50
302 Santa Lucia ····-·· ····· 150
869.50 807.50 999.00
303 Porterville ····-···· ...... 463
22.00
7.00
304 Reedley ...................... 154
166.50 214.50 245.50
305 Azusa ···········-······~····· 254
141.00 245.00
196.00
306 Ashlar ........................ 279
660.00 358.50
307 Santa Monica ............ 383
308 Monrovia ............ ...... 290
179.97
224.25 213.00 230.00
309 Delano..·-··-··········-····· 232
40.50
65.50
73.50
310 Sisson ·-······················· 115
257.10 105.00
121.00
312 Los Banos .................. 156
331.00 237.50 228.50
313 Tehachapi .................. 196
163.00 133.50 148.50
314 Temescal .................... 219
444.90 339.50 243.00
315 Norwalk ·····-············· 249
206.00 190.50 221.50
316 · Sanger ··--·············-····· 316
68.00
32.00
317 Fallbrook ·····-··-······· 128
318 Emmanuel ................ 79
3.00
319 Hollenbeck ................ 1051
85.00 163.25
135.00
320 South Gate ................ 659
840.00 1,549.50 856.50
107.00 120.00 161.00
321 Alisal ···········-············· 134
335.25 338.25 383.50
322 Alhambra ···-············· 642
566.05
1,187.91
323 Whittier ·········-········· 685
649.00 401.00
324 Corona ........................ 474
724.00
325 Consuela .................... 252
141.17 100.34
326 Needles ...................... 357
385.50 641.00 699.50
441.00 361.50 508.55
327 Long Beach .............. 588

1950
1951
256.00 289.00
402.50 718.00
219.50 186.35
2.00
2.00
103.00
30.00
366.00 424.20
497.50 565.50
16.00
10.00
665.00 859.50
1,122.50 1,277.18
75.00
37.00
94.00
434.00 331.00
1,400.00 1,372.00
488.50 470.50
120.00 132.00
99.50
25.00
25.00
374.50 488.50
93.18
60.00
274.80 241.50
315.99 368.82
76.01 108.19
98.52
150.54
922.75 731.00
570.00 913.00
210.17 119.00
229.00 191.50
177.00
1,300.50
217.50
129.50
314.50
259.50
172.00
835.50
141.00
157.40
139.50
475.50
103.50
115.00
247.25
46.50
394.50
165.00

296.25
786.50
86.50
385.00
278.00
256.50
222.00
22.50
38.00
249.00
243.00
385.50
131.00
553.50
58.00
196.00
340.50
79.00
509.05
276.50

32.00
18.00
114.75 112.50
1,005.00 1,338.00
81.00 108.00
307.00 915.05
1,450.00 730.00
469.00 565.00
176.50
543.00 832.50
250.53 348.00

Mem1950
1951
1949
1947
1948
Name
bership
210.00
520.00
209.00
338.00
300.00
Redondo .................... 497
190.00 261.50
225.00 240.00 250.09
Vallee de France ....... 129
889.00 304.00
384.00 506.00
Kilauea ··········- ·····-··· 233
94.00 212.00
149.00 159.50 171.00
Pacific Grove ............ 255
San Pedro ...........•...... 501 1,246.25 1,384.50 1,227.50 1,035.00 1,028.00
171.50
139.50 145.00 188.50
Alta ............................ 90
198.50 281.50
280.00 310.75 213.00
Covina ·····- ···-··········· 304
2,104.00
West Gate ···-············· 1039 1,712.50 1,123.00 887.17 2,050.00
572.00 403.75
287.00 400.00 335.50
Fruitvale ·····- ··-········· 894
147.00 173.60
135. 75 155.00 140.00
Carquinez ................ 199
200.00
53.00
63.06
San Jacinto .............. 101
321.10 427.00
179.50 200.50
Fullerton .................. 388
185.50 217 .00
433.00 238.25 576.88
Oxnard ...................... 389
543.19 808.50
503.50 738.00 569.25
San Fernando .......... 509
147.50 258.00
482.08 229.50 311.50
Starr King ................ 538
43.00
74.00
28.00
56.00
64.00
Brentwood ·········-····· 136
900.00 1,251.00 1,325.50 1,370.00 1,415.75
Palo Alto ·····- ······---···· 694
639.00 573.25
319.00 295.20 185.25
McKinley .................. 482
842.83 440.02
335.69 672.90 543.87
348 San Bernardino ........ 706
911.75 1,251.50
861.00 907.50 1,175.00
349 Sequoia ...................... 1079
475.00 840.65
402.00 484.50 434.00
351 Palestine ·····-········-··· 599
832.25 885.00
979.75 835.00 822.25
352 Sunset ·····-················· 389
46.50
68.50
80.00
36.50
68.00
353 Pinole ·····-················· 176
500.00 420.00
237.00 538.00 495.00
354 Presidio ·····-··············· 529
464.00 1,440.00
355 Hollywood ................ 1192 1,826.50 328.50 695.10
386.50 537.00
353.00 381.50 414.00
356 Mill Valley ................ 425
181.25
174.25 178.75
357 Buena Park ···-··--····· 213
474.00 714.55
743.25 2,498.30 564.00
358 Golden State ..... ...... 851
139.00
16.00
35.00
40.50
359 Loyalton ···-··············- 99
330.50 327 .50
488.00 126.00 462.50
360 San Francisco .......... 318
29.00
7.00
77.50
361 Fort Bragg ................ 131
60.00 106.50
50.50
132.00 109.50
362 Charity ...................... 150
23.00
70.50
388.00 216.31 118.31
31IB Berkeley ·······-··········· 661
365 Willits ...!.---"-·-······· 155
108.50 1;:iiiioo
366 Las Palmas ····- ·····-··· 964 1,045.50 919.00 609.50 1,453.65
1,297.14
789.00 1,080.50 531.00
367 South Pasadena ...... 580
773.50 1,255.00
368 Unity ·····- ··················· 615 1,204.50 1,173.50 1,202.00
427.00 586.75
620.87 496.50 510.00
369 Ocean Park ·····-······· 502
172.50 301.00
87.50
159.50
370 Amity ···················- ··· 466
371 le Progres de
654.00 718.00 1,199.10 1,498.75 1,460.09
l'Oceanie ·····-········· 673
145.00 270.00
195.45
132.00 202.25
372 Gardena ····-········-····· 318
206.00 353.00
205.00 249.00 192.00
373 West Los Angeles...... 400
139.25 203.50
171.00 173.00
374 Jewel ········- ······-······· 189
348.50 327 .50
185.00 223.50 230.00
375 Richmond ····-····- ······ 547
207.50 254.50
291.00 273.50 182.50
376 Francis Drake - ········ 345
442.00 376.00
290.04 326.00 282.00
377 Artesia ...................... 167
410.43 2,018.07 1,104.50 1,178.80 1,345.00
378 Mizpah ...................... 441
591.50 505.50
397 .50 537.50 459.00
Fillmore
....................
236
379
51.00
21.00
50.00
124.00
28.00
Huntington
Beach....
318
380
343.12 486.36
368.36
357.25
329.25
381 Oceanside ·····-······· .... 337
196.00 448.55
373.00 401.10 320.00
382 Highland Park ........ 633
284.00 340.00
617.00 280.00
383 Orosi ··········-····-······· 141
540.50 544.25
393.50 335.00 133.00
384 El Centro ·······-······· 415
40.00 354.00
157.50 255.50 120.25
385 Dinuba ..............•....... 286
812.00 1,025.00
208.65 300.00 695.00
387 Coalinga ····-············· 379
456.80 470.30
369.50 332.50 490.50
388 Parnassus ·····-··········· 741
219.90 150.50
566.11 385.82 132.50
389 Palos Verdes ···- ··-··· 716
23.00
71.00
103.00 171.00
390 Imperial ·········-········· 121
127.00
93.00
25.00
8.50
8.00
391 East Belt ·-····~····· 91

No.
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347

350
No.
392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership
1947
1948
1951
1949
1950
Name
West Lake ·····-········· 942 2,032.00 909.60 1,220.00 1,942.00 2,404.eO
405.50
312.00 452.00
571.50 460.00
Balder ...- ..........- ....... 492
459.00
University ..................... 618
558.00 710.00
674.50 1,305.50
336.25
302.00 175.00
Turlock ...................... 368
198.00 338.00
273.00
Apollo ---·--------····-···---- 466
354.50 331.50
266.30 323.00
835.74 1,563.00
791.37
Rising Light .............. 1030
159.88 924.02
154.00
101.50 171.50
140.00 171.00
Fraternity ···-··-···..···· 453
Burlingame ..................... 633 1,498.50 1,088.50 712.00
961.60 963.50
114.00
54.00 108.00
Bay View .................. 610
125.00 138.00
222.11
100.85 221.50
Brawley ................................ 206
342.50 263.50
474.09 847.50
714.20
Yerba Buena ............ 861
581.00 1,064.50
175.50
100.00
Glendora .................... 142
25.00 ...................
934.00
850.15
914.50
793.50 943.00
Moneta ·····-··-··-······· 730
1,217.00
2,756.45
1,040.00
1,030.00 1,200.00
Burbank ·····-··-······... 656
400.50 197.55
412.00
La Mesa ........... _......... 494
337.75 971.00
173.50
44.00 . 302.00
Sierra Madre ............ 146
209.00 350.00
552.85 823.50
737.00
Honolulu ····-··········· 383
806.50 966.50
106.00
165.00 155.00
85.00 203.00
Charter Rock ............ 364
50.00
69.00
125.00
67.00 245.00
Perris ·····-····-··-······... 150
380.00 119.00
167.00
105.00 194.00
Calexico -------·-········· 162
561.50 287.50
414.00
Arlington ····-·······-··· 358
209.00 392.50
866.31 807.50 1,135.00
806.00 816.00
Silver Trowel -·- - ··• 391
345.00
457.80 433.00
82.00 410.00
Lindsay ·-..-····-..······· 222
215.50 414.25
Clovia ................. ........ .... 420
298.50 594.50
419.50 406.00
Elysian ...................... . 463
636.00
302.00 476.00
171.00
Upland ..............._....... 201
63.00
184.05
120.00 155.71
121.00 142.00
104.00
128.50 185.00
Kerman ...................... 107
671.00
556.00
418.50
............ 1,111.50
Inglewood ....•- ......... 690
237.50 306.50
482.75 422.05
Eagle Rock ................ 498
348.00
401.25 189.00 200.80
222.50 200.25
York ...........- ...- ........ 336
833.00 398.50 486.50
322.00 519.00
Exeter .....- ................. 213
Holtville ..._.._.._....... 141
247.50 180.00
224.50
206.50 210.00
189.00 113.00 353.50
564.50 142.55
Midwa~ ..........._......... 498
92.50
138.50 140.00
116.50
Chino alley ···-······· 134
210.00 210.00
152.00 150.00
190.00
San Dimas ................ 163
56.00
Pittsburg .....- ...._....... 289
17.00
35.00
18.00
44.00
157.07 201.08
98.10
McCloud ...-.....- ....... 102
121.00
451.50 344.50 349.25
300.00 306.20
Alpha ..........- ..--....... 502
69.00
21.00
25.00
Hammonton .............. 64
70.00
29.00
25.00
83.00
Maricopa .................... 175
4.00
46.00
231.50 133.65
90.00 127.00
277.75
Fairmount .............................. 483
162.50
73.00
48.00
63.00
77.00
Claremont .................. 116
211.00 182.00
500.50 520.50
Lancaster ------·-······· 257
306.75
Acacia ...._ ..... _ ......... 60
133.50 132.00
117.00 120.00
126.00
5.00 111.50
54.50
48.00
Tyrian ....- ................. 168
103.00
293.00 167.00 182.00
131.00 148.00
Standard ....- ............. 348
_______
..................
.
414.00 529.75
371.39 590.00
369
415.00
Coronado
907.25 678.00
Blackmer .................. 1204
696.75 1,008.25
866.25
447.08 310.00
Schofield . .............................. 245
284.50 108.00
379.50
621.00 178.50
469.50 272.00
Carpinteria .............. 119
Wilshire .....__........... 557
498.00 625.76
870.28 657.00
735:50
48.00
8.00 117.50
La Puente .................. 154
38.00
112.00 278.00
209.50 396.50
290.16
Torrance .....- ............. 391
208.00 265.00
248.00 263.50
Mount Diablo ............ 303
230.00
366.50 408.74
373.50 301.32
Park ....._..................... 496
315.00
557.00 505.52
444.50 771.50
Van Nuys .................. 704
464.75
450.90 498.90
624.00 785.65
Montebello ................ 552
606.22
788.50 850.00
930.06 1,020.00
San Pasqual ..._..: ...... 482
952.77
248.50 422.00
426.00 335.90
421.00
Bethlehem ------········ 300
184.50 166.80
316.50
94.50
Crocker .....- ............. 400

_ -

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

351

MemName
bership
1948
1950
1947
1949
1951
455 Golden West ............ 573
250.50 565.50
106.00 238.00 366.50
457 RBIDona ...................... 479
377.00
162.00 252.00
591.00 661.50
458 Henry S. Orme ........ 679
532.00 760.80 458.50 1,628.50 1,423.00
459 Riverbank .................. 143
51.50
77.00
102.00
63.00
79.50
460 Mount Oso ................ 301
92.00
93.50
42.00
18.00 172.50
461 Argonaut .................... 437
308.50 316.50 537.50
518.50 908.50 .
462 Paul Revere .............. 594
765.50 738.00 1,123.00 1,174.00 1,195.00
463 Morgan Hill .............. 149
35.00 131.00
107.00 140.00
32.00
464 Alta Vista .._ ............. 279 . 192.50 119.50 468.50
709.25 566.25
465 Center ........................ 516
381.00 289.00
219.00 247.50
158.00
466 Libertas ···-··--···.. ······ 592
411.50 498.50 493.00
528.00 440.00
467 Culver City .............. 338
262.00 731.00 658.50
835.00 643.00
468 Rockridge .................. 479
439.50 267.50 182.00
383.00 602.50
469 Yorba Linda .............. 146
172.00 217.00 180.00
70.00
470 Lincoln .............................. 340
775.00 810.50 1,021.50 1, 174.80 1,178.50
471 Delta .......................... 479
411.50 429.00 683.00
624.00 592.00
472 Maui ............................ 251
327.00 198.00 387.00
374.00 441.28
473 Blythe ........................ 133
144.44
118.00 130.00
118.00
474 Victory ·····-··············· 299
256.25 135.00 258.50
441.00
475 America ···-····-········· 503
367.50
13.00 297.00
100.00
476 Coachella ------··········· 187
132.00
191.50
176.00 308.00
477 Temblor
57.50
56.00
76.00
75.00 132.00
148
478 Thousand ·03~··::~::::: 496
156.00 154.00 189.00
83.50 218.15
479 Golden Rule ....- ....... 600
399.00 733.50 255.00
339.50 450.75
480 Fellowship .........-..... 334
262.00
46.00
97.80
63.00
122.10
481 Mt. Davidson ......_,___ 396
354.00 337.00 694.75
384.50 453.50
482 Clarence F. Smith.... 370
696.00 731.00 512.00
533.00 751.00
483 Bell ··------····-······-···· 605 1,006.77 1,110.95 737.00
449.00 591.81
484 Albert Pike .............. 256
153.50
95.00
74.00 250.00
110.00
485 Chowchilla ................ 149
28.00 240.50
25.00
44.00
31.00
486 Caledonia .._ ............. 485
542.30 710.66 791.95
616.50 811.35
18.00 386.25 255.75
118.25 222.30
487 Vallejo ........................ 392
488 Patterson .................... 112
5.00
17.00
15.00
42.50
199.50 173.00
489 East Bay .................... 401
61.00 176.50
190.50
37.23
112.50 146.00
490 Corcoran .................... 120
104.50 162.50 124.50
62.50
491 Woodstock ....................... 402
70.00
225.75 283.00 349.00
215.50 333.50
492 Garvanza
302
217.58 284.13
407.89 415.13 373.75
493 Atascadero ··:::::::::~::::: 110
659.50 293.50 285.50
103.00 203.50
494 Acorn .......................... 593
145.00
178.00 147.50
495 Lebanon ......................... -----· 387
78.50
190.00
524.00 494.00 400.86
389.98 473.01
497 Fremont ···-·········-··--- 511
295.00 284.80 268.50
202.78 255.50
498 Stockton
192
167.50 391.00 350.00
405.00 501.00
499 Capital
470
100.00 109.00 120.50
123.50 151.50
500 Roosevelt ---·--··········· 202
131.50 170.00 121.00
404.00 604.00
501 Westwood .................. 269
178.00 190.00 197.00
187.00 367.68
502 Harbor ........................ 561
..
..................
____________
118.50 228.00 121.00
88.00 125.00
503 Point
260
508.00 754.50 706.10
720.50 754.50
502
504 Seaside
518.50 475.00
77.50
90.00 700.00
505 Silver Co~d·~:::::::~=::: 467
506 Mount Olive .............. 1004 2,894.50 2,409.50 1,921.80 1,425.29 1,929.70
69.00 401.55
259.00 151.00 229.00
507 El Segundo ................ 320
20.00
49.00
508 Joppa ................... _ .... 80
64.63
69.00
268.00 244.00
518.25 484.30
509 Benjamin Franklin.. 357
4.95
168.50
28.00
48.00
87.50
91.00
510 Cupertino .................. 163
525.27 240.25 242.50
214.50 171.00
511 Sunnyvale ............................ 318
273.50 257.00 360.75
246.50 668.00
512 Palms ................. _....... 430
98.50 340.00 247.50
201.50 219.00
513 Cahuenga .................. 544
202.50 187.00 112.00
259.00 194.00
514 Argonne ------············· 388
507.00 420.44 693.05
783.51 1,058.00
515 Vermont Square ...... 528
73.00
621.50 619.60
93.50
824.50
516 Taft -·-----·:.._...... 309
No.

cit;;··::::::=:::::

352
No.
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership 1947
Name
139.50
Mount Vernon .......... 221
La Jolla ...................... 265
573.90
Euclid ........................ 396
435.00
Ionic ............................ 784
170.40
Piedmont ................................ 289
474.50
Sunrise ............................ ......... 332
.................
_____
947.00
388
Bellflower
72.00
Catalina Island ........ 149
172.50
George Washington .. 478
93.00
Bay City .................... 360
237.00
Covenant .................................... 340
Beverly Hills ............ 494
594.72
381.00
Loyalty ...................... 453
411.50
Sun Garden .............. 532
115.00
Alexandria ................ 161
69.50
Smyrna ...................... 110
315.00
Azure .............................................. 246
Forest Hill ................ 178 1,103.00
600.00
Alexander Hamilton 256
95.00
Seal Rock ..."............... 199
292.07
Utopia ........................ 701
384.00
Ascot .......................... 346
273.50
Belvedere .................. 220
96.00
Queen Beach ............ 191
H. M. Stephens ........ 335
799.10
Lankershim ............... 714
600.50
Signal ........................ 488
517.90
Glendale .................... 665
143.50
Jonathan .................... 198
122.50
San Gabriel .............. 418
297.00
Arcadia ...................... 375
300.00
Triangle ..................................... 249
433.50
Justice ........................ 366
208.00
Seaport ....................................... 236
106.50
Lakeshore .................. 269
126.50
Semper Virens .......... 263
351.00
Educator .................... 371
131.00
White Pine ................ 99
199.50
Fairfax ...................................... 350
110.00
Hermosa ................................... 305
572.50
Point Firmin ............ 364
173.00
Craftsmen .................. 430
127.00
Plymouth .................. 373
531.84
E. San Diego.............. 710
230.50
Pyramid ...................................... 290
671.09
South Park ................ 409
204.50
Foothill ........._........... 692
West Adams .............. 307
87.23
James A. Garfield ..... 230
322.50
Searchlight ................ 468
383.00
Park Blvd................. 415
208.50
Chateau Thierry ...... 346
118.75
Military Service ...... 347
198.50
Francis K. Shattuck 268
423.00
James Madison ........ 358
18.00
Hillcrest ...................................... 76
389.50
S. W. Hackett............ 559
117.00
Fort Crook ................ 161
400.10
El Cajon Valley........ 251
823.50
Swmyside .................. 464

_

1951
1950
1949
1948
211.50
211.00 202.00
159.25
119.50
32.00
81.00 100.50
640.71
329.50
657.00 825.13
537.50
2,345.25 1,694.18
157.50 109.25
161.50
203.50
309.65 491.58
437.50
623.95
412.24
427.00
317.00 127.00
316.00
112.00
299.25 303.75
562.00
247.50
208.00 654.50
42.50
194.00 343.00
742.58 683.50
736.50
443.25
575.42 777.00
306.00
655.60
892.50 1,500.00
872.00
548.70
231.08
248.55
89.00
163.00
125.00
189.00 231.46
26.00
16.00
16.00
28.00
671.00
161.00 142.50
11.00
143.50
94.50
110.50
86.00
450.00
600.00
460.00 820.27
111.50
105.00
185.00 184.50
239.00 1,002.17 1,438.47
332.00
348.00
424.00 328.00
298.25
130.00
163.00 104.00
231.00
139.00
223.50
220.50 112.00
83.50
200.14
91.00 107.50
497.25
584.50
377.50 270.00
645.00 807.50
476.00
434.00
420.50
617.00 543.50
668.32
384.00 404.80
373.50
142.00
142.00
167.00 522.00
116.50
397.50 434.50
291.00
268.50
184.00 256.00
202.00
204.00
361.50 436.50
522.00
397.50
180.00 195.00
205.00
132.00
109.50
92.00
62.00
120.50
323.00
246.81
441.50
216.70 180.95
199.00
204.00
156.50
76.00
67.50
225.50 177.00
137.50
60.00
141.00
118.00
62.00 122.00
639.00 693.75
562.50
743.50
138.00
121.75
58.60 223.00
139.00
168.00
165.00 178.00
364.43 418.50
385.50
553.35
208.50
44.50 165.50
25.00
478.00 593.05
576.25
610.25
196.50
231.00
117.50 126.50
218.50
391.00
248.50
519.13 1,158.08
526.15 873.00
257.00
262.75
202.00 485.00
268.00 643.00
282.50
273.66
176.50 158.00
217.50
274.00
98.50
104.50
64.50 121.00
116.00
230.50
229.00
269.00 480.00
310.50
287.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
270.25 372.00
329.75
257.00 326.32
382.50
265.50
519.00 540.00
384.50
371.00
821.00 1,015.00
724.00 1,003.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

353

MemName
bership
1947
1948
1949
1950
i951
578 Progressive ···--···-··· 495
435.50
179.50
506.00 343.25 847.00
579 Warren G. Harding.• 496
254.50
570.75
592.25 153.00
580 Santa Maria .............. 113
220.50
450.50 134.00 185.00
581 Security .................... 389
196.00
291.00
252.00 643.56 778.00
582 Rialto .....- .................. 148
90.00
94.00
132.00 107.00 144.00
583 Wasco . ...................................... 289
243.00
337.50
839.00 604.50
584 Harding ...................... 245
500.00
738.39
248.16 198.00 204.00
585 Manchester ................ 363
777.65
826.50
757.00 ............ 1,463.00
586 Garden Grove .......... 204
130.00
2.00
392.88 283.50 109.50
587 Valley Forge ............ 369
14.00
293.00
122.00 152.50 133.00
588 El Sereno .................. 413
64.00
160.50
150.90
83.00 275.00
589 Kauai .......................... 129
428.00
467.00
494.95 337.00 423.10
590 Compass
184.00
145.00 109.00 158.00
.
.............. 254
591 Escalon ............... _..... 127
324.50 161.50
592 Tujunga .................... 249
377.00
215.50
154.00 153.50 191.75
593 All States .................. 540
773.75 1,295.00
616.25 449.00 541.50
594 Service ........................................ 715
305.38
364.50
352.75 388.00 389.00
595 Alexander G. Bell.... 267
475.86
407.50
671.80 575.15 570.50
596 Guardian
942.00 1,037.00 1,322.90 1,385.50 1,732.00
795
598 Pearl Harbor ............ 570 1,016.00 1,207.00 1,313.00 1,179.00 1,326.25
599 Carmelita .................. 320
751.50
671.50
795.00 814.00 756.00
600 Lynwood .................... 371
602.50
649.00
694.66 716.00 755.50
601 Grizzly ...................... 142
73.50
90.00
16.00 141.50 111.50
602 Melrose ...................... 234
147.27
143.06
124.46 521.70 185.06
603 Dimond ...................... 285
185.50
342.50
489.76 555.61 572.66
604 Jubilee .................................... 333
192.00
153.00
656.00 531.00 668.00
605 Glassell Park ............ 405
332.75
325.00
344.25 358.00 427.00
607 Sojourner .................. 203
289.50
106.00
129.00
74.50 154.00
608 Granada ----·------...----- 719
2.00
541.17
246.00 185.00 671.00
609 Provident ·······--······- 412
250.40
524.75
502.75 602.50 602.50
610 Elmhurst .................... 231
109.50
47.00
58.00 108.50
61.00
611 Canoga ...................... 230
200.00
173.00
56.00 137.50
118.00
612 Temple City ....... _..... 356
167.50
169.00
196.00
87.00 230.00
613 Three Pillars' ............ 389
346.50
482.00
735.00 515.25 540.37
614 Larchmont ................ 404
934.25
888.00
746.50 794.50 866.50
615 Hemet
75.00
152
143.04
105.50
175.00
·········-···········
616 R. E. Dolley................ 194
117.00
186.50
148.00 238.00
617 Big Bear .................... 148
77.00
67.00
47.00
75.00
49.00
618 Southland .................. 305
327.20
338.00 215.00 244.50 173.00
619 Neptune ······-··-·------ 270
149.95
156.25
161.00 104.00 222.00
620 Point Loma .............. 498
334.50
370.75
517.87 361.00 360.00
621 The Gardens ............ 422
272.50
249.25
59.00 243.00
330.00
622 Atwater ·-····-·····.-····· 370
324.50
350.50
307.00 320.00 552.00
623 Menorah ···-··-···· ..··· 779 1,205.00 1,294.00 3,100.00 3,031.10 2,614.00
624 Fortitude ............................... 199
104.00
20.00
187.00
32.00 134.50
625 Angeles Mesa ..... _..... 628
224.73
325.50
191.81 136.25 130.00
626 Chula Vista .............. 379
322.50
164.00
374.50 445.00 460.00
627 Lamanda Park ........ 245
441.25
305.50
207.50 494.00 512.00
628 Truth···-·-··-··•·'"··· 248
538.00
390.50
612.50 530.00 686.25
629 Fairview .................... 269
461.25
454.50
558.00 576.00 705.50
630 Ingleside .................... 182
84.00
65.50
261.00 165.00
631 Benevolence .............. 274
114.00
147.50
38.00
17.00
12.00
632 Normal Heights ........ 601
636.50 756.75 467.00
166.00 1,017.75
633 Poinsettia -·--··· .. ··· 586
283.50 1,046.00
969.50 992.00 1,206.50
634 Victorville ···-······-··· 186
237.27
222.00
165.27 149.50 100.00
635 Riverside ................................. 362
415.50
313.00 277.00 351.00
636 John Marshall .......... 282
965.00
535.50 439.75 605.00
306.50
637 Palisades .................... 384
738.00
824.00 783.00 798.00
853.00
638 Indian Rock .... _ ....... 206
91.50
112.50
37.75
58.50
104.50
839 Composite ···-··--····· 366
382.50
394.00
319.50 270.00 1,079.00
No.

--·- -----

------···--·-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

354

lrlem-

No.

bership

Name

1947

1948

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1949

1950

243.00
108.00
48.00
104.00
640 Veritas .........- ... ---·····- 119
487.00
272.50 202.00 471.50
641 James A. Foshay ...... 238
702.50
661.00
788.75
912.50
642 La Cumbre ................... 243
224.00
361.50 347.76 318.00
643 Alta Loma ·······-· ······ 360
76.00
619.25
154.50
209.00
644 Lomita ·------··-········· 239
131.00
602.00
90.50
527.00
645 A. F. E. Irwin. ........... 272
275.00
144.00
131
172.00
646 Metropolitan
309.35
317.00 414.00 227.00
647 Hawthorne ................ 371
393.38 355.88 389.96 276.78
648 Damascus ···- - ·-········ 538
516.60 516.95 372.00 224.75
649 Florence .... ..................... 466
531.35
537.87 548.77 475.77
650 La . Brea ·······-··········· 259
144.00
70.00
60.50
101.50
651 Menlo Park .............. 221
269.50
138.00
227.00
182.25
384
--···
Valley
Crescenta
652
19.00
16.00
19.00
23.00
274
Fontana
653
·-·-·······------- 354 188.50 151.25 210.50 115.00
Jordan
---·"
.
...
.
.
.
............
654
89.00
167.00
301.95 249.96
655 Monte Vista ·······--··· 557
30.50
41.00
162.00
101.00
656 Citro! ···-··- - - -··· 167
919.50 1,291.65 708.59 1,037.00
657 John D. Spreckels._.. 611
10.00 101.00
44.00
658 Livingston ...... . ................... 147
64.00
143.00
45.00
659 La Habra .................. 172
171.67
151.00
258.00
45.00
660 Baldwin Park .•........ 154
162.50
134.00 144.00
93.40
661 Malta ·············-··········· 217
2,872.50 1,208.00
662 Henry Knox ..... ...... 418 1,500.00
82.50
105.50
60.00
94.60
663 Ojai ·······- ······-··-······· 104
177.50 135.00 154.50
102.00
665 Kaweah ···-··-·••h••-··· 110
225.00
133.00 142.00
199.75
666 Reseda ................. . ...... . . 272
375.50
291.50
667 Meridian .................... 479 1,269.00 296.75
182.15
380.88 321.99 249.50
668 San Gorgonio .......... 219
158.00
140.50
94.00
111.00
669 John P. Jarman........ 246
29.00
101.00
390.00 572.00
670 Greenleaf ·······-······· 474
30.00
25.00
29.00
25.00
671 San Clemente ·····-··· 74
356.00
585.50 329.00 400.00
672 Laguna Beach - ······ 182
374.00
154.50 220.00 408.50
673 Far West ·····-·-········· 323
134.00
629.00
710.00
674 Los Cerritos ........... ...... 306
991.50 617.50
584.00
675 Modesto ................. _............. 434
145.75
204.50
161.00
238.00
676 Willow Glen ............ 286
537.00 525.50
594.00
557.00
292
677 Liberal Arts
·-···----···
_____ . _ 433
______
645.10 736.06 757.01
815.25
678 Altadena
133.00 200.00
24.10
679 Canby Cross ·--··--····· 130
307.50 324.50
229.00
248.50
680 Carmel -·-------··········· 166
66.00
130.00
162.50
208.00
681 Dos Palos ........... ...... 109
427.25 376.51
360.50
882 Barstow --·-··-··-···.. ··· 256 452.84
46.25
36.00
72.50
683 Redwood Empire ...... 80
169.25 254.00
174.00
260.00
684 Tron a ···-·············--···· 127
454.50
584.50
500.00
447.75
685 San Marino .............. 301
152.50
122.50 . 104.50
174.00
686 Albany ... - ................. 181
324.50 302.00 310.00 275.00
687 Vista -- - ··-··--·-··--····· 220
386.00 153.00
65.50
888 Oildale ................. _......... . . .. 158
45.00
46.00
·56.00
56.00
689 Pahona .............. ............. - . ... 57
304.00 375.50
72.00
286.00
690 San Carlos ···-··-~······ 213
400.00 406.00
342.00
608.00
691 Indian Wells Valley 236
65.00
18.75
169.25
692 Travelers ···- ··- - ······· 140
113.25 296.50
3.00
68.00
693 Palm Springs ·····-··· 122
114.18 130.00
177.00
694 San Antonio ............... 108
125.00
177.00
695 Meudel ···-······-··--··· 103
185.00
50.00
286.26
696 Crossroads .................... 157
103.00
697 St. Elmo ···-·- ·--··· 68
210.00
577.00
698 Wm. D. Stephens ...... 58
141.00
232.00
699 Bixby Knolls -·~-- ..... 153
109.50
147.50
700 Ponderosa .................. 127

-

-

_

1951
188.00
502.00
826.50
233.50
257.00
642.50
385.50
470.00
305.10
310.00
533.81
181.75
353.00
75.50
254.00
277.50
55.00
907.50
263.00
346.50
232.50
134.50
904.00
146.50
167.00
5.00
666.50
392.93
187.00
34.00
50.00
382.00
441.25
226.00
564.82
149.00
·590.20
882.45
121.00
259.50
237.00
385.50
169.00
262.00
492.00
252.00
244.50
166.50
118.25
439.50
583.50
186.50
269.00
222.69
215.00
332.50
129.00
816.00
318.75
203.50

355

Mem-

Name
bership
No.
701 Santa Ynez Valley.... 52
702 Rosemead ···-······-····· 70
'103 Westchester ·······- ··· 118
'104 Orinda ···········-······-··· 71
'105 El Cerrito ············-··· 65
706 Hunters Point Naval 82
707 Lake Tahoe ···········-· 30
'108 Seafaring ··-··- ····-·-··· 114
709 Lorenzo ·······-············· 82
710 Anacopa .................... 53
711 Rim of the World...... 57
U.D. Los Altos ···········-····· 41
U.D. Blue Lakes -······- ··-· 43
U.D. Castro Valley· ·····- ··· 50
U.D. Magnolia Park ......•. 38

1947

1948

1949
71.59
69.00

1950
86.00
112.00
189.38

....... .....

71.00
25.00
77.50

..............

1951
110.61
142.15
250.00
99.00
105.00
164.50
29.50
312.05
89.00
96.35
150.47
114.50

105.00
145.00
Cash................$241,939.20

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

356

357

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

DECOTO, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1950-1951
Names of Residenl&--MEN-Average Age 78.9
Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Adams, Harrison z.....Nov. 29, '46 Orange Grove ..293 Orange --·:···········--87
83
S George R · ·········.Feb· 17 ' '45 California .......... 1 San FrancJSco ..... .
Alb er•
Alseth, Lars ·····--·-········Mar.
7, '34 Moneta ........... -.405 Los An
h ge.1es ........77
88
Anderson, Chas A ........Nov.19, '36 Tehachapi ···-·····313 Tehac
Anderson, Wm. A. ....June 22, '42 Chowchilla ........485 Chowc
a ......... .67
. E . ........June 25• '42 Sotoyome ..........123 Healdsburg ..........84
B aer, R eub m
p 1
76
B asse tt, Henry N . ······Jan. 6• '50 Santa Paula ......291 Santa tau a ........ 85
Beale, D. Grant ......... .June 4, '46 Los Gatos ..........292 Los Ga os ............
Beckmann, Carl A ______May 3, '51 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ........68
Bicknell, Clyde C.........Apr. 30, '51 Los Gatos ..........292 Los Gatos .·-······--73
Blanton, John S. ·····-···July 26, '48 Occidental .......... 22 San Franc~co ....83
Boggs, Fred'k. H .......Aug.10, ;47 Bethlehem ..........453 San Fran~JSco ----~~
Burke, Harold E .........July 26, 49 York ....................423 Los Ange ~ -·······
Cassady, Earl J .•...........Feb. 3, ;36 G. Wa~hington..525 San Fx:ancJSco ....80
Casterline, Myron ........Nov.16, 32 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............86
Childs, Clarence E .......Oct. 8, '41 Palo. Alto ..........346 Palo Alto ..............91
Cleveland, Benjamin ..Nov. 15, '50 Service ................594 Long Beacp. -------80
Cohl, Benjamin ·-····-··.Mar.15, '48 Bay City ............526 San Franc~co ....73
Collins, Wm. W............. Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San FrancJSco ....85
Condon, Wilbert S ......_.Jan.11, :42 Apoll<? ................396 Alam~da ..............75
Conway, Winn P •..........Oct. 21, 45 Roseville ............222 Roseville ..............76
Cowan, Will E .............July.17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........82
Date Harrington ····----.Mar· 5, '48 Grizzly ..............601 Portola ..................83
Dav~. Alva S. ···········--Sept. 8, '50 ·Woodland -····----156 Woodl~nd ............82
Dix Benjamin R. ........June 9, '50 Baldwin Park ....660 Baldwm Park ....89
Dix~n, Edgar A ...........Nov.19, '48 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............77
Donovan, John ..............June 25, '48 Point Firmin ......558 San ~edro ............82
Dowdall, Fder'k W •..... .Aug. 3, '43 Solano ..................229 ValleJO ..................71
Dowdle Everett S .......May 18, '48 Yerba Buena ....403 Oakland ................82
Elder, james R. --·······.Dec. 13, ;so AJ;>ell --·····-······-··-146 Ukiah ....................77
Engelbret, Niels ---······.Nov. 17, 44 Pmole ···-······-···353 Hercules .............. 76
Fairall. Percy ...............May 23, '48 Westwood --·······501 Westv.:ood ............63
Felton Wilson K .........July 1, '48 Calexico ··········;··-412 Calexico ·:·--·······--84
Fetter' Ferdinand ..........May 19, '50 King Solom~n s 260 San Franc~co ....91
Yrare 'Giacomo ............Apr. 1, '51 Speranza Ita la ..219 San FrancJSco ....70
Frost' Harold G.............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ·······-·······537 Los Angeles ......-61
Garrick Walter J .......Oct. 2, '47 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angel~s ........88
Geibel 'George F. __ ,...May 12, '39 Fairmont ·-····-···435 San Franc~co ....77
Gelstoii Hollister ........Sept.12, '49 Mission ····-------169 San FrancJSco ....79
Graha~ Eugene ..........Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard ..............341 Oxnard ---······-----86
Greaves' Walter ..........Oct.18, '32 Apollo ................396 Alameda --·····------82
Gregozy George W...... .Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........85
Halpin Robert L ...._...Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel ..415 Los Angel~s ........78
Hannah, Jack S .............Jan. 9, :51 D9ri~ ..................216 San ;Franc~sco ....82
Hansell Calvin E .... -...Nov. 18, 50 MJSSion ..............169 S!in FrancJSco ....80
Harth Arthur P. _______Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay_ -······-····.416 Lmds~y .·······-····-·"
Helm~t Victor ..............Sept. 8, '48 Mou!1tam Shade 18 Dowmeville ........78
Hendricks Alfred ........Nov. 17, '50 StanJSlaus ..........206 Modesto ···:············70
Hiltner Harry B •....... .Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Franc~co ....84
Hollma'.n. Harry T .........July 15, '48 Paul Revere ......462 San FranclSCO ....74
H owell' Arthur G.........Mar. 3. '51 Carmel ................680 Carmel ------------'"

hNf --··-··---

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Hughes, Henry J ........ .Dec. 26, '35 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ....81
Hyman, Milton ..........Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ....65
Hynding, John P ........ May 12, '50 Ferndale ............193 Ferndale ..............87
Jack, Chas. P. ---···-·Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ....72
Jefts, Benjamin ............Oct. 27, '48 Justice ··----------·.549 San Francisco ....78
Joiner, Wm. B .............Feb. 11, '47 Marin ·············----191 San Rafael ..........87
Jones, Harry S .............May 10. '47 Plumas ................ 60 Quincy ..................84
Kelly, William H .........June 22, '51 Glendale ............544 Glendale ..............76
Ketcheson, Horace ........Mar.17, '50 Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington ..........81
Lawrence, Edward S ...Mar. 22, '47 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood •.......... .59
Lawson, Andrew N ...... .Dec. 30, '48 Coronado ·-·--·····441 Coronado ..............76
Leeper, Robert ............. Mar. 20, '50 Delano ................309 Delano ..................70
Lewis, Fred S ...............July 25, '49 Argonaut ............461 San Francisco ....84
Lewis, William ···········-·July 13, '45 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........79
Martin, William S .........Mar. 20. '51 Western Star .... 2 Shasta ..................73
Matlock, William L .....July 12, '51 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ············-···81
Matthe~.Elbert C .......July 10, '35 La Mesa ·-·-··--·--.407 La Mesa ...............:83
Maynes, william A. ......Mar. 9, '51 Escalon ................591 Escalon ................79
Mearns, John C. --·-------Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ....77
Mellinger, Walter E .....May 5, '51 Redondo ..............528 Redondo Beach ..84
Menke, William ............ Nov. 26, '49 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ....78
Miller, Louis C...........Oct. 30, '48 Doric ..................216 San Francisco ....72
Monson, Edward ..........Sept. 20, '48 Fellowship ........480 Oakland ................88
Moore, Andrew A ........ .Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............ 300 Redlands ·····-·····--'16
Nathan, Louis --···········June 4, '49 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco .... 76
Nelson, James B .........Apr. 8, '50 California .......... 1 San Francisco .... 86
Nixon, Robert D ......-.Apr. 25, '47 Bell ......................483 Bell ........................90
Oakley, Charles W.......Dec.16, '49 Nicolaus ..............129 Wheatland ..........75
Over, Sirwell C ...........June 4, '47 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............87
Palmer, James ..............Aug.14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................89
Peters, Thomas C....... Sept. 11, '50 Center ................465 Fresno ..................76
Plato, John ·······-·········Feb. 5, '48 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ........87
Porter, Wm. G .............. .Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........77
Quilty, Frank E.......... .Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ......... .210 San Jose --········---9'1
Reed, Samuel B ...........Mar. 2, '46 Fr. K. Shattuck..571 Berkeley ..............84
Richardson, William T. July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ................58
Riddle, Starr D .............Dec. 26, '50 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ....61
Russell, Frederick ....... .Dec. 26, '49 Pajaro ···-······------110 Watsonville ..........80
Rogers, Albert E. --------.Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ..............418 Los Angeles ........73
Rogers, Earl W. ·····--···July 27, '49 Harbor .......- ..- .. .502 Richmond ............72
Schlichting, Martin .....May 16, '35 Seaport ................550 San Francisco ....78
Siefert, Otto E ............Mar. 19, '49 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............90
Shults, John ..................Apr. 3, '51 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........83
Slagel, Robert B ...........Oct. 28, '38 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ....73
Spaulding, Horace ......Nov.17, '41 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ....86
Stacey, George M.........Nov. 18, '50 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ....71
Stevenson, John E .......July 18, '47 Starr King ________344 San Francisco ....85
Stewart, James O...........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras .......... 78 San Andreas ......80
Stillwell, Arthur ·-·-······.Aug. 5, '50 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........84
Stubbs, Will L ...............Mar. 21, '51 Sojourner ..........607 Monrovia ..............80
Templeman, Henry ..... .Dec. 29, '38 Oriental ...........-144 San Francisco ....90
Thompson, Charles J ...Nov. 17, '49 Mission ·-····-····--169 San Francisco ....91
Tilsner, Henry ............Mar. 2, '46 Crockett --·······•·139 San Francisco ....80
Tingley, Charles H .......Dec. 6, '50 Jubilee ................604 Santa Ana ............73
Tosy, Antonio ·····-·······Sept. 23, '37 Speranza Ita'la ..219 San Francisco ....84
Tuttle, Joseph K. ..........Mar.17, '46 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................79
Vanderwerker, L .........Apr.13, '47 Alcatraz ............. .244 Oakland ................80
Vorsanger, Edw-ard ....June 10, '37 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ..............83
Wallace, James S ........ .Apr. 18, '51 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ....84

358

359

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Wallis, Abraham ·-····.Nov. 2, '47 Midway ·-···········426 Taft ·-··············-·-«I
Watkins, Wilford .....__ .Apr.11, '47 Ramona ·········-···457 Monterey Park ..84
W~s~ Burr W......- .........Dec. 4, '50 Sisson ······-··········310 Mt. Shasta ·-·····--·68
Rockridge ·-··-···468 Oakland ···········---.118
Wp.I~ams, Chas. F. - .. .Aug. 24,
W~s, Robert ........Sept. 27, 50 Woodbridge ......131 Woodbridge ........86
WilllS, Walter H..-.......Dec. 'l, '45 Oakland -·····-··-188 Oakland ·-·······-····74

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
74
....
Francisco
San
139
..............
Crocket
'25
Fortriede, Auguste ......Apr. 24,
Fox, Cora F ...................Dec. 30, '49 Clovis ······-········- fl7 Clovis ··············-··-68
Gafford, Sophia B .........Feb. 7, '49 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino ..77
Gardner, May A. ..........July 16, '51 Mission ................169 San Francisco ....81
Gilliam, Estelle -············Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ................615 Hemet ..................67
Goldstein, Pauline ......Nov. 21, '50 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ·······-·····80
Goodwin, Emma ···-·····June 13, '48 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ........78
Gowen, Laura ······-··-··.Jan. 31, '48 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........86
Grahm, Alice M ...........Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard ................341 Oxnard ·········-·······81
Graham, Mamie E ..- .....May 17, '50 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................82
Grant, Lillian A .............Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown ........77
Green, Nellie J .............Dec.10, '44 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ....82
Griffith, Rose L ...........Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City ............85
Harris, Helena G .........July 13; '46 Live Oak ·-········· 61 Oakland ·······-··--·88
Harris, Louise C...........Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ................136 San Francisco .... 76
Hawkins1. !-ouisa ..........June 26, '48 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ·······-··-···83
Hazard, Marie -····-····.Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ·······-·······80
Henderlong, M .............June 4, '46 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ........... _.79
Henderson, Margaret Sept. 23, '50 Oroville ..............103 Oroville ................86
Hewitt, Frieda Z .........Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ....67
Hill, Catherine ·-·-······.Apr. 26, '48 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........71
Hoover, Emma J. ·-·······Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............71
Howell, Pearl ·-····-······.Mar. 3, '51 Carmel ................680 Carmel ·············-···84
Howland, Joanna ........Mar.10. '48 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ·······-···-88
Huber, Tillie _-.............July 7, '49 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ....86
Hyatt, Nannie S. _ .......Feb. 13, '48 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ····-····85
Hyman, Loretta ·-········.Dec.15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ....60
Jack, Mary ·-····--·····June 1, '31 McKinley ..........347 Richmond ............84
Jackson, May R. ·-·······Aug. 27, '25 Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ·-··--·---.92
Jebe, Elise ·-··-··········.Mar. 10, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ....79
Johnson, Jane ·-····-······.Jan. 6, '34 Presidio ·······-·····354 San Francisco ....85
Joly, Eval111 -··--········.Feb. 6, '47 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ....86
Jones, Elsie ·-··--··-·······Jan. 26, '49 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley .......,......78
Kapp, Carrie E .............July 16, '49 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose .............. 79
Kauffman, Eda B ........ .Dec. 7,.'46 Alex. Gr. Bell ....595 Los Angeles ........69
Kaufman, Augusta ......Mar.19, '48 East Bay .......... ..489 Berkeley ·········---82
Kautenberg, Caroline ..Nov. 23, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ·······-·····81
Keenan, Effie ..............July 17, '33 Jewell ................374 San Francisco ....74
Kelsey, Ada M. ·-·····-····.May 11, '50 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........93
Kendrick, Josephine ... .Aug. 5, '49 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................76
Kidder, Hallie D ........ .Dec. 2, '46 Torrance ............447 Torrance ···········-·84
Krejcik, Otilia _............Jan. .25, '49 Se9uoia ........... _.349 Oakland .............-.81
Krejcik, Rose -············-.Feb.16 , '48 FaJ.rmount ..........435 San Francisco ....76
Lane, Edith B. ·-·········..Mar.15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........77
Langenberger, C.......... .Apr. 26, '47 Jewell ...............-.374 San Francisco ....86
Larson, Alice B .............Jan. 19, '47 Balder ................393 San Francisco ....73
Larter, Gertrude M .....Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ·····--·-··405 Los Angeles ........64
Latham, Martha ............May 10. '50 California .......... 1 San Francisco ....80
Leibold, Emmae ............Jan. 4, '51 Fidelity ···········--120 San Francisco ....86
Lewis, Elizabeth ·····-·····Jan. 4 ,'47 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ....82
Long, Mary A. .....,........Jan. 10, '49 Friendship ........210 San Jose ..............95
Lowell, Lillian ............Sept. 29, '46 Pacific ................136 San ;Francisco ....90
Mackenzie, May ·····-····.June 30, '41 Bay View ·-··-···"°1 Oakland ···-······-···73
Mahan, Elizabeth ........Apr. 3, '51 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ·······-·······82
Maltby, Sarah E .......... .Dec.16, '39 Chico ·-··-··---Hl Chico ...............--81
Mayfield, Mary ·····-·····SepL 22, '35 Alpha ·-···--····--431 Richmond ............79
McCord, Zidana -···-·····Ocl 18, '46 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ·-·······76
Mccully, Gertie M ....:..June 10, '46 Educator ·-····-···554 San Francisco ....75
McCurry, Alice _... ~....Nov. 27, '48 Union ·········-······· 58 Sacramento ..........89

Name

:46

Names of Residen!1-WO MEN-Average Age 79.42
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
75
....
Francisco
San
·-········-·139
Adolphson, Axny L ......May 11, '50 Crocket
83
Allen, Ida ·-··················-.Feb. 17, '40 Balder ·-·············393 San Francisco ....76
Anderson, Christine ____ .Apr.10, '50 Yerba Buena ......403 Oakland .......•........
Anderson, Matilda ......Mar. 28, '51 Antioch --- --...175 Antioch ······-··- --91
Aver, Ida M......- ...........Mar. 4, '44 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley ......81
Baker, Annie J ...............May 15, '48 Sequoia ·····-·······349 Oakland ................75
Barkworth, Elizabeth June 14, '51 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ........67
Barnes, Ealine G ...........July 7, '34 Liberty .....•..........299 Santa Clara ..........81
Bausch, Ella A .............OcL 2, '41 Sequoia ·-··········.349 Oakland ................87
Blakiston, Edith •.........-Apr. 4, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ....83
Blank, Maude H ...........SepL 28, '46 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........81
Bode, Louise H .............Dec. 28, '50 Manchester ........585 Los An~eles ........75
Bodutch, Johanna R. ..Jan.11, '50 Alameda ............167 Centerville .......... 78
Bradic, Elizabeth ..........June 3, '44 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ....59
Brockman, Katherine ..Feb. 23, '43 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............78
Brod, Laura H ...............Sept. 28, '46 Fidelity ·-····-·····120 San Francisco ....88
Brown, Jean L ...............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........71
Brown, May M............. Nov. 29, '42 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........79
Cameron, Rae V ...........Aug. 4, '50 Sequoia ·-···········349 Oakland ................70
Campbell, 'Lucy A. ......Sept. 11, '50 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............86
Carnall, Louise M. ·-····.Dec. 1, '45 Mission ................169 San Francisco ....79
Carroll, Nellie P. ·-··-.Aug. 27, '49 Marin ·-·-·-··-···181 San Rafael .......... 80
Casterline, Mary A .....-Apr.10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............ 78
Cauch, Mabel R. ............Jan. 19, '51 Friendship ........210 San Jose ...........-.89
Cavins, Kittie E. ···-····.Aug.13, '44 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............76
Chase, Aimee C.............Dec. 3, '41 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ....82
Clute, Frances E. ••........Dec.11, '48 Marin -·········-··-·191 San Rafael ..........75
Costain, Mattie L ..........June 10, '40 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose .............. 75
Cundell, Isabel -··-······.Dec. 16, '44 Pentalpha ···-··-.202 Los Angeles ....._.76
Dalton, Meta C.............Jan. 27, '51 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland -··-·····-73
Damner, Jennie ............Aug. 27, '42 Pacific -···-···-···136 San Francisco ....76
Davidson, Elizabeth ... .Sept. 14, '50 Alisa! ··············-·.321 Pleasanton ......._78
Dickie, Mary E .............May 6, '50 Silveyville _........201 Dixon ···········-···-72
Dixon, Nora E ...............Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........76
Donald, Flora L. ·-······-..Apr.10, '48 Axnity ····-·-·······370 San Francisco .... 63
Douthitt, Edith A. ....._.Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ·-··· 30 San Francisco ....74
Edwardes, Lina M .......May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ....69
Edwards, Letitia M ...... .Aug. 30, '50 Vacaville ·······-···134 Vacaville ..............77
Edwards, Nellie B .......Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn ·······-··.225 Oakland ................76
Elliott, Maude M ..........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......73
Ellsworth, Celeste ........OcL 14, '49 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..... - ...66
Enos, Nellie A. ·-········.Aug. 5, '49 Salinas ···········---.204 Salinas ..................89
E;nvin, Lillian B .........July 28, '41 Olivet ............... -.205 Corning ................78
Ferguson, Ruth R .........May 26, '34 Sotoyome ............123 Healdsburg ..........94
Fetrow, Dora L. ..........May 11, '35 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............82
Finley, Ada L ................Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ........80
Fish, Gertrude L ........Jan. 26, '46 Elmhurst ............610 Oakland ···-··········Jfl
Ford, Alice -··-········-.SepL 1, '49 Excelsior ·······---166 San Francisco ....94
Fortin, Martha .......,......July 16, '49 Oakland ·-···········188 Oakland ..............•.79

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
McDowell, Alice M.......Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ............. 75
McGarry, Marion ........June 2, '48 Catalina Island .. 524 Avalon ...............:::63
Mciver, Ella W ............. July 9, '48 Oak G~ove ..........215 Alameda .............. 76
McLean, Lucy A. ........Nov. 28, '34 Excels10r ............166 San Francisco ....75
Mears, Margaretta ...... Sept. 17, '41 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........70
Merrill, Ivy L ...............Jan. 25, '41 Il.linoistown ........ 51 Colfax ..................72
Meyer, Annie J ...........June 2, '51 Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego ............75
Miller, Statira E ...........Nov. 28, '49 El Centro .......... 384 El Centro ..............77
Monro, Eddith C .........Mar. 16, '46 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............83
Moore, Louise K. ..........Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............ 300 Redlands ..............70
Newman, Susanna ........ June 4, '29 Antioch ..............175 Antioch ................89
Nielsen, Este M. .......... Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................73
O'Donnell, Florence ....June 1, '43 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley ..............88
Otis, Ethel E .................Mar. 22, '48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............68
Owens, Lenita L ...........Apr. 28, '50 Educator ............554 San Francisco .... 83
Palmer, Elizabeth ........Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................84
Palmer, Lilla P ........... June 16, '44 Carmel ................680 Carmel ..................89
Pankow, Catherine ......Apr. 29, '29 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco .... 86
Parizek, Grace D .........Jan. 11, '49 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........79
Peacock, Katie ..............Mar. 15, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................78
Peairs, Lillian W .........Feb. 11, '35 Normal Heights 632 San Diego ............ 82
Pearce, Carrie C. ........ Oct. 11, '46 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................ 87
Pease, Mabel ................ Oct. 10. '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................75
Perger, Eva ................. Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................74
Phillips, Ida M ............... Nov. 13, '48 Pajaro ................ 110 Watsonville .......... 87
Pitzer, Jesse M .............Feb. 28, '51 Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ............81
Powell, Belle M ...........May 15, '50 Fairmount ......... .435 San Francisco .... 85
Prentice, Rose ..............June 30, '45 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ..........82
Preslar, Ida .................... Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................89
Randolph, Jeannette .. June 26, '51 Corcoran ........... .490 Corcoran ..............71
Ramsey, Hattie ............ June 23, '40 Monterey ............217 Monterey .............. 90
Raymond, Lillian ........ Sept. 21, '39 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ........ 82
Reasoner, Marie D .......July 21, '48 Normal Heights 632 San Diego ............ 69
Robertson, Mary F .......Apr. 28, '46 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 78
Rosie, Elizabeth .......... Jan. 12, '43 LaFayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ............88
Rudebeck, Anna ..........Dec. 15, '48 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ....79
Scheuch, Caroline ........ Feb. 27, '44 Doric .................... 216 San Francisco .... 83
Schwartz, Grace H ....... July 12, '42 Arlington ........... .414 Los Angeles ........ 79
Seymour, Laura ............ Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ........... .409 Honolulu ..............73
Shanks, Ella ................ Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............80
Smilie, Mary A. ..........Mar. 4, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................90
Snyder, Amanda G ....... Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........ 224 Bakersfield ..........78
Sparrowe, Constance .. Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco .... 83
Spaulding, Lillian ........ Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ....80
Sprague, Julia ..............June 29, '47 Acorn ................. .494 Oakland ................ 83
Steele, Fannie T .........June 26, '50 Hanford .............. 279 Hanford ................ 85
Stroud, Laura .............. June 2, '37 Vacaville ............ 134 Vacaville .............. 77
Swain, Sarah C ............. Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ·-···········72
Taylor, Clara B ...........Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ....90
Thomas, Elizabeth ........Dec. 7, '41 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........72
Thompson, Celia ........Dec. 16, '33 Eden .................... 113 San Francisco .... 94
Vale, Olive B. ................June 18, '36 Bethlehem ..........453 San Leandro ......80
Wade, Georgia M......... Feb. 24, '39 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .............. 79
Ward, Jennie F ........... Sept. 1, '50 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............86
Wharton, Mary ..............Mar. 20, '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................75
White, Emma C ...........Apr. 16, '46 Tuscan ................ 261 Williams .............. 91
Whittemore, Ida ..........May 5, '46 Mt. Jackson ........295 Guerneville .......... 85
Wilcox, Edith ..............May 3, '36 Dlirant ................ 268 Berkeley .............. 83
Williams, Annie ............ Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ....72

361

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
Williams, Louise ..........Feb. 16, '49 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton .............. 77
Williams, Mary ............Feb. 17, '43 Holtville ..............425 Holtville .............. 88
Wilson, Lillie B. .......... Oct. 23, '44 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 81
Winterberg, Clara ........Mar. 1, '50 Starr King .......... 344 San Francisco .... 90
Zeehandelaar, Mary ....Jan. 12, '48 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........ 80

AGE GROUPS 1950-1951
Men
Average age groups as follows:
Between 50 and 60 years .......................................... 3
Between 60 and 70 years .......................................... 9
Between 70 and 80 years ......................................... .44
Between 80 and 90 years .......................................... 53
90 years and over ........................................ 7

Women

116

1

14
75
69
13
172

Average age for men 78.9 and for women 79.42
ADMISSIONS OF MEN 25. Average Age 76.2
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
Beckmann, Carl A. ......May 3, '51 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ........ 68
Bicknell, Clyde C....... Apr. 30, '51 Los Gatos .......... 292 Los Gatos ............ 73
Cleveland, Benjamin .. Nov. 15. '51 Service ................ 594 Long Beach ..........80
Davis, Alva S ............... Sept. 8, '51 Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ............ 82
Elder, James R. ............Dec. 13, '51 Abell .................. 146 Ukiah .................... 77
Frare, Giacomo ............Apr. 1, '51 Speranza Ita'la ..219 San Francisco .... 70
Hannah, Jack S ............. Jan, 9, '51 Doric ....................216 San Francisco .... 82
Hansell, Calvin E. ...... Nov. 18, '51 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco .... 80
Hendricks, Alfred ...... Nov. 17, '50 Stanislaus .......... 206 Modesto ................70
Howell, Arthur G .........June 3, '51 Carmel ................680 Carmel .................. 74
Kelly, William H .......June 22, '50 Glendale ............ 544 Glendale ..............76
Martin, William S .......May 20, '51 Western Star .... 2 Shasta .................. 73
Matlock, William ........July 12, '51 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ..................81
Maynes, William A. ....Mar. 9, '51 Escalon .............. 591 Escalon ................ 79
Mellinger, Walter E. ....May 5, '51 Redondo ............328 Redondo Beach .. 84
Peters, Thomas C ....... Sept. 11, '51 Center ................465 Fresno .................. 76
Riddle, Starr D ...........Dec. 26, '50 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco .... 61
Shults, John ................ Apr. 3, '51 Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles ........ 83
Stacey, George M .....Nov. 18, '50 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco .... 71
Stillwell, Arthur M ..... Aug. 5, '50 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........84
Stubbs, Will L ........... Mar. 21, '51 Sojourner .......... 607 Monrovia .............. 80
Tingley, Charles H .......Dec. 6, '50 Jubilee ................ 604 Santa Ana ............ 73
Wallace, James S ....... Apr. 18, '51 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco .... 84
West, Burr W .............Dec. 4, '50 Sisson .................. 310 Mt. Shasta ............ 58
Williams, Robert G ... Sept. 27, '50 Woodbridge ...... 131 Woodbridge ........ 86
ADMISSIONS OF WOMEN 22. Average Age 77.95
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
Anderson, Matilda ......Mar. 28, '51 Antioch .............. 175 Antioch ................91
Barkworth, Elizabeth June 14, '51 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........67
Bode, Louise H. ............Dec. 28, '50 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........ 75
Cameron, Rae V .........Aug. 4, '50 Sequoia .............. 349 Oakland ................ 70
Campbell, Lucy A. .... Sept. 11, '50 Dunsmuir ..........267 Dunsmuir ............86
Cauch, Mabel R. ..........Jan. 19, '51 Friendship ........ 210 San Jose .............. 89
Dalton, Meta C ...........Jan. 27, '51 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 73
Davidson, Elizabeth .. Sept. 14, '50 Alisa! ..................321 Pleasanton .......... 78
DeRoca, Theresa ........ Sept. 8, '50 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley ........67
Edwards, Letitia ..........Aug. 30, '50 Vacaville ............ 134 Vacaville .............. 77

362

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
Gardner, May A. ........June 16, '51 Mission ................169 San Francisco ....81
Goldstein, Pauline ......Nov. 21, '50 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose .......~......80
Henderson, Margaret Sept. 23, '50 Oroville ..............103 Oroville --···-·····--86
Hirschberg, Gussie ... .Feb. 25, '51 John P. Jarman..669 San Jose ..............78
Howell, Pearl ···········----Mar. 3, '51 Carmel ................680 Carmel ·······-········-84
Leibold, Emma F. ______ .Jan. 4, '51 Fidelity -·-······---120 San Francisco .... 86
Mahan, Elizabeth ..... .Apr. 3, '51 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ···-······-·--82
Meyer, Annie J .......-June 2, '51 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............75
Pitzer, Jessie M ........ _.Feb. 28, '51 Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ·-···-----81
Randolph, Jeannette ..June 26, '51 Corcoran ............490 Corcoran ..............71
Swain, Sarah C...........Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ..............72
Ward, Jennie F .........Sept. 1, '50 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............86

Date of
Death
Name
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Martin, Mary J . ........:...Mar. 20, '51 Franklin ..............143 Courtknd ···--···'17
Roeder, Elizabeth B .....Nov. 25 '50 ~:f1t. Grove ···----215 Alameda ____79
Rogers, Abbie J ...........Mar. 10: '51 S ys1a~ -·········---.418 Los Angeles ........79
Sharp. Orry A. ............. .May 19, '51
·····-··--·349 Oakland ···········-···90
Trittenbach, Lulu ........ Sept. 5, '51 E equo1.a
xc~ls~or ···-··----166 San Francisco ......84
Wetzel, Laura C...........Dec. 16, '50 Pre~1d10 ···--·----354 San Francisco __ ...88
Wild, Lydia M ............ _.Ju]y 14, '51 Salmas ............... .204 Salinas ···-····---···89

DEATHS OF MEN, 22. A nrage Age 82.95
Date of
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Death
Name
75
......
Francisco
San
127
............
Hermann
'50
26,
Sept.
.....
Alsing, Frederick W
Briggs, Herbert F ............ .May 7, '51 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ·······-·········78
Cullen, Alexander ......... .Nov. 1, '50 Hollywood ........355 Hollywood -------88
Diechmiller, Conrad ... .Feb. 13, '51 Oriental ···-····-···144 San Francisco ......85
Ellsw_o rth, Charles ......Nov. 26, '50 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........73
Erwin, Lewis J. -···-····.Aug. 21, '50 Olivet ···-····-···---.205 Corning ···········---94
Eybs, Louis ......................Apr., 9, '51 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......70
Finch, John N. ···-··-··-···Oct. 12, '50 Forbestown ........ 50 Forbes ·-----·------8'1
Heidt, Wesley ···-··········.Mar. 15, '51 Occidental ···-····· 22 San Francisco ...... 81J
Kaubnann, Emil ............Mar. 7, '51 East Bay ···-······.489 Berkeley ·········----85
Laloli, James ···········-···July 10, '51 Kig David ..........209 San Luis Obispo..90
Learned, Samuel M. ....May 7, '51 San Pedro ·····-··-332 San Pedro ··-··-···90
Leavitt, Melville E. ....Apr. 17, '51 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ·-········---80
Mason, George A. ..........July 15, 51 Oakland ·········----188 Oakland ·······-·--·81
Miller, Irving W....- ...Bept. 21, '50 El Centro ............384 El Centro ···-····-···71
Potter, Frank L. ·····---.Nov. 19, '50 Temple City ......612 Temple City ···----86
Rixen, James B. ·········-···Jan. 9, '51 Redwood City ..168 Redwood City ......79
Stimson, Charles A. __ ...Oct. 3, '50 McCloud ···-··----430 McCloud ···-···-··-80
····-·-··-80
Todd, Albert E. W ...........Jan. 7, '51 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu
Angeles ______90
Walles, John F. ·······-···Oct. 23, '50 Golden State ....358 Los
Warren, George R. ···-···Oct. 9, '50 Evergreen ·····---.259 Riverside ·······-···90
Young, Theodore H .... .May 21, '51 Fremont .........- ...497 Oakland ................87
DEATHS OF WOMEN. 22. Average Age 82.2
Date of
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Death
Name
88
......
Francisco
Ames, Clementina ____ ..Oct. 12, '20 Mission ···-··-··-·--169 San
Aydelotte, Zana G ........ .Apr. 18, '51 East Gate ······----.290 Los Angeles ........87
Brown, Lima C...............June 5, '51 Bethlehem ·····--·-453 San Francisco ......94
Burnett, Ethlan R. .......May 30, '51 Las Pabnas ···-··-366 Fresno ..................76
Cartwright, Isabella ....June 1, '51 East San Diego..561 East San Diego.... 80
Congdon, Jessie B .........Sept. 13, '50 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........76
Cowan, Anna E ........ _...July 27, '51 Hollenbeck ------319 Los Angeles ···-··-85
Crowley, Mary A .........Sept. 5, '50 Mt. Jackson ........295 Guerneville ·····-···83
De Roco, Theresa ............Jan. 3, '51 Madison ···--······· 23 Grass Valley ........67
Ford, Sena E. ···-··-··-····.May 7, '51 Harbor ···-··-··-···502 Richmond ............81
Foster, Elizabeth M.....June 23, '51 Hawaiian ···-······· 21 Honolulu ..............82
78
Hirschberg, Gussie A ...Mar. 20, '51 John P. Jarman..669 San Jose ..............
Jensen, Alice _________ .Aug. 12, '50 Presidio ···-····-·-354 San Francisco ___ ..80
Mann, Bertha M. ···-·····June 26, '51 Naval ···-············· 87 Vallejo ···-··--··"-···83
Mariner, Helen V .........Oct. 10, '50 Hartley ................199 Lakeport ···-··--··-82

363

WITHDRAW ALS: Men 5. Average Age 74.4
Withdrawn
Age
Name
Town
No.
Lodge
72
Hewson, George E .........Aug. 11, '50 Mt. Moria .......... 44 San Francisco
Anderson, James S .....June 29, ··51 Mt. Olive ·······-···506 Los Angeles -···66
Ci_Udwell, Lysander A. ..Oct. 27, '50 Searchlight ···-·--56'1 Long Beach ..::::::a6
Gipman, John E. ·····----Oct. 10, '50 A~gonne ·········-··514 San Francisco ......73
Mills, John ···-··----··-··.S ept. 8, '50 Mill Valley ·-·····356 Mill Valley ·-·-···75
WITHDRAW ALS: Women 4. Average Age 73.2
No.
Lodge
Withdrawn
Age
Name
Town
Anderson, Helen ..........Aug. 14, '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ···-··-··-··81
Barton, Grace A. ......... .Aug. 11, '50 Concord ···········--117 Sacramento ···-----61
q1appell, M_argaret H. ....Mar. 1, '51 Liberty ···-········--·299 San Jose ................87
Gillman, Ellzabeth ........Oct. 10, '50 Argonne ..............514 San Francisco ·----84
STATEMEN T OF THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS
August l, 1950-July 31, 1951

1950
b ··'········-··-·· ···--··---·---- ·-··-··-··-··-·· ······;.._::117
~ugust
eptem er ······-·---··- ----·-·--··-· ·-··-----·-·· -·117

0 ctober ···-··---······-· --·-------·- -··-··-··-··-· ·-··-·111
N
D ovember ·······-··--······ ····--·--·-··-·-· ······-···-······· --·-112
ecember ···-··-······-···· -····--··-···- --·-···---·-- ---118
1951
.
J
Fanuary --·-----······- ··-··--····-··- ------------· -··--··115
Mebhary --··----- ----·---- ·-··--··-- -11'
A ar~ ··-··-·-···--·---~·---··-·-··--··-··-······-···-·-··-··--116
·-··-------- 118
pril -·-··--··--·· --··----·
·--·--··-····- ·---------·-- -·--·--··---- -··-··----11 7

ray

J!!l; _::::::=::::==~.:.-==~==--==:=:::::::.~:=]~

Women
175
177
174
174
174
176
179
177
177
174
173
173

EMPLOYEE :;

1950
ugust ·············-··- ··-··-··------- ...:-..
----..91
geptember ··----·--· ·--·-··--- -----ctober ···-··-·····--------·-··---------··-·--·--------·····--·89
~ovember ·-···-·--····- ····--··---·· -----·------ --...;..-......-.-91
·-·-··---88
ecember ···-··-·-··- ·-·----·--- ----··-··
1951
··----88
:,anuary - - - · - - - - · - - - - - · - - - - -Mbruary ···-··--··-- --·-··--··-· -·----··-··- ··-··-·--··· ··88
arch ··-··--··---··--···-··-··-·-·------·---·-··-··----·---....88
A

----··-··-------··-·--88

364

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

f:$ =~~~;:-~====~~=1

CANTEEN INVENTORY
Close of Business, July 31, 1951

MASONIC HOME FARM
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31. 1951
FRUITS. PRODUCE. MEAT, ETC. DELIVERED TO COMMISSARY
Fruits, Fresh ···-·-··········-·-··-··-······-···-···········-··----~·-·····-··;$ 79.00
Fresh Frozen ·······-··-··················-··-······-··-··-··············· 285.00
Dried (Apricots) 1951 crop ········-·-··········-··-··-··········· 343.75
707.75
Hay ···-······-··················-··················-··'·········································· . 300.00
Meat, Pork-28 carcasses--7058 #--·············-··········-··············· 2,117.40
Nuts Walnuts ···············-··-··-······- ··- ·-··-·- ··--··-··············-···
67.50
Veg~tables ·······-··········-······················-··-··-··- ····-··- ······- ··········· 215.35 $3,408.00
SOLD FOR CASH
2 aged sows .............. ········-··-········-····- ······-······················-··- ···
200.80
$3,608.80
STATEMENT
CANTEEN 1k COCA COLA SALES
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31. 1951
$6,419.60
Cash Receipts ···-··-··········-··············-····--··-··-··-·-···-··-···········
ACTUAL COST OF GOODS
Inventory July 31, 1950.....·- ··-··-··--····-·- ·-······-··-··-··-···$ 327.21
From Commissary ···········- ··········-······- ·······- ········-··················· 5,419.78
$5,746.99
LESS
Inventory July 31, 1951...-·-··-······-···- ··- -··-··-··-··········-··· 273.83 5,473.16
946.44
Gross Profits ····-······· ······- ······-··············- ··-·- ····-··········-···········
240.00
Sala·r ies (Residents) --··-··- --··-·-··-··--····-··-··--··-··- ··-···
$ 706.44
Net Profits ···-······- ······-····- ·- -··- ··-······--··-··-·····- ··-··- ··-···
•See Sheet 2 for Canteen Inventory at Selling Price.
CANTEEN INVENTORY
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31. 1951
SELLING VALUE OF GOODS
$ 363.57
Inventory July 31, 1950......·- ··········---··- - -·····--··- ······-··-···
Deliveries from Commissary ···························-··············-··- ···$5,654.46
Leu
Foods used in cooking returned........................................·-···
30,50 5,623.96
Cash Receipts - ·-··-·········-··-··-······-· ··-·-··-··-····--······-··-···

$5,987.53
5,676.45

Inventory July 31, 1951.•·-··-··-··-··-··-·-··- -··--··-······-··- ·······

$ 311.08
304.26

Shortage ···-····- -····-···-- - -··-··-························-······- ·--·····
Above figures exclusiv~ of Coca Cola.

$

365

6.82

25
22
120
79
82
4
3
441
29
16
20
7
15
10
9
16
2
1
15
5
40
12
36
93
34
28
29
57
16
6
6
21
3
15
5
16
12
31
4
9
27
7
490
31
6
1
6
140
9
66
23
11
101
9
35
17
2
1
6

cans
cans
bars
bx
bars
bars
bags
rolls
bars
bars
cans
bottles
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkg
only
only
only
only
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
cans
cans
jars
jars
cans
jars
jars
bags
p~gs

pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
pkgs
only
cans
cans
can
cans
pkgs
Jars
pkgs
cans
jars
cans
cans
cans
cans
cans
jar
jars

Selling Price

Apple Juice 12 oz. ···················- ···-·-············-··········- ··--··· .15 3.75
Apple Sauce ··················-·······- ··-··············-······-··-·-······· .18 3.96
Candy, Chocolate Almond ···················-······-··-······-······· .05 6.00
Cough Drops ······--···········- ············- ··················-··· .05 3.95
F or ever Yours····----···········-··················-·-···-······· .05 4.10
Hershey, Plain ······················--······--·········--·-··- .05
.20
Lemon Drops ·······················-··-······-······-·--··· .16
.48
L ife Savers ···········-······- ··············- ······-··-··-······· .05 22.05
Milky Way ........................:.....................................05 1.45
Mounds ···-····································- ··············- ······-· .10 1.60
Carrot Juice 12 oz. ···················-·························-·······-·· .14 2.80
Catsup 14 oz. ·······-··-··············-······················- ······-···-······ .19 1.33
Cereals, Corn Pops 41h oz.......................·- ···-·-··············· .17 2.55
All Bran 1# ···································-··- ··············· .21 2.10
Corn Flakes, 8 oz. ·····························- ··············· .15 1.35
Sugar Crisp 6 oz. ···········-··············-~·············-··· .16 2.56
Cheese, American 1h # ···-······················-······:....... ~·-······· .33
.66
Old English 1h # ···················- ··········-············-··· .36
.36
Cigars, Ca~adian Club ···--························-··-··················· .06
.90
Irvm S. Cobb .........................................................05
.25
Roi Tan ···- ············································-··-·····-··· .09 3.60
Phillies ······································ ·-······················-··· .09 1.08
Cigarettes, Ca.Inels ···················-····················-··········-··- ··· .16 5.76
Chesterfields ·····························-··················· .16 14.88
Herbert Tareyton ................................:..........16 5.44
Lucky Strike ·························-······················· .16 4.48
Kool ·········································-··-·- ·······-··-··· .16 4.64
Pall Mall ···································-······-··-··-···
9.12
Phillip Morris ..................................................16
16 2.56
Coffee, Drip 1#, M.J .B. ·······································- ··········· .87 5.22
Regular 1# S & W ..........................................•••• .85 5.10
Instant, Bordens 2 oz. ···-································- ··· .53 11.13
N escafe 4 oz. .......................................... .53 1.59
Geo. Washington 4 oz. ··········-············ .53 7.95
Borden's 5 oz. ···-··- ··················-··-····--1.25 6.25
Sanka 2 oz. ···········-··-·- ··-··- ······--·- .60 9.60
Cookies, assorted ·······················································-······· .22 2.64
Melba Toast ···············-··························- ··-······· .17 5.27
Crackers, Baby Arrowroot ···························- ················· .18
.72
Cheez-It .............................................................•.16 1.44
Graham 1# ·······························- ······················· .27 1.89
Hi Ho ·····························································-··· .16 1.12
Envelopes, Air Mail ·······················-····························-··· .01
4.90
Fruit Cocktail 8 oz. ···································- ······················· .12 3.72
Gr ape Juice 12 oz. ···············- ············································· .20 1.20
Grapefruit sections 8 oz..................................................
13
.13
Grapefruit juice #2 ...........................................................19 1.14
Gum, Wrigley's ···············································-········-······· .05 7.00
Honey, 8 oz. ···········-··································- ·'··--··-··········· .16 1.44
Kleenex 200s ···············································-··········-··-······· .15 9.90
Lemon Juice 51h oz........................................................... .10 2.30
Mayonnaise 8 oz. ···············- ··················-··-··············- ······· .28 3.08
Milk, Evapor ated, small ···················-····················- ··-··· .08 8.08
Condensed 14 oz. ···-······················-······-········'"····· .23 2.07
Olives, ripe 7 oz. ···- ··-····················.··········-··············-······· .20 7.00
Grapejuice 12 oz. ···········-···-·-··-·······-·-- -··- ·····-········- .13 2.21
Orange & Grapefruit juice # 2 ···-··-··---······-··---·- .17
.34
Ovaltine 14 oz. ···-······- ·············-······-······-··-··· ······---· .70
.70
6 oz. ·············································-··············-··- .38
2.28

366
11
48
10
112
7
26
12
39
22
5
8
3
32
2
20
30
13
47
21
12
20
25
300
1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

jars
cans
cans
only
cans
cans
pkgs
pkgs
Jars

bottles
jars
cans
cans
pkgs
cans
bags
pkgs
cans
cans
only
only
only
bx
can

Selling PTice
Peanut Butter
2.31
8 oz............................................................. .21
Pears 8 oz
6.24
.13
-·····-····-··
Pinea' ple ~J.fc;f""#·i"-··········-··········-········-1.60
.16
Postafcards, Masonic--H~~-----------····--··-··--·-··---··---···
e ......................·-·-----·- ---·- .07Y.z 8.40
4
Potatoes shoe t ·
Prune Juice 1: ~g oz.................................·-·:------· .17 1.19
2.86
Razor Blade~, Gill~ti-e··Biu;--···-··---··--·----·-------.....,..........11
2.52
.21
Th. ' 4
m, s .............................- ......09 3.51
Relish sweet 8
----·-··---·--·----··--------···-··· .19 4.18
Sauce,' Lea &'Pe~fu~· ..5·--~--··--·
1.45
Salad Dressin Mira~le 0 8 · .............. .............. .............. .....29
1.76
oz........................- ......- ....... .22
Sauerkr aut ·u~~e #2 .
.36
Sausa e Vi~nna 4 z · ......................................._________ .12
7.04
.....- ...- ...........22
Sugal granula ted f#· ···------....- .....................
22
_ .........._.., .11
..............................
'
s u 12
- ....... .25 5:oo
..- ......- .....- ...- ..........- ..........
T~ £;divi~~~i...............
.30
Li ton's 8 b.:i°...... ..................___..___________________ .01
gs .......- ........................_........._ ............10 1.30
Tuna ~ # '
Vegetab le ·~ii'c·~-"C~"Cki;ii".........._..______...._.......... _.___ ..... .31 14.57
2.52
..--··-··--·-· ··-------...................... 12
Grapefr uit l

5s.---·-··-··---------------·-

~

:~g
:8i01 3:oo
::==~~=:::::::
::::::::::...............
::::::::::...............
::::::::::
::::::::::
g~~og~
........
...............
-.............
P~s~ 9··-··-··--oz. ...............- ..................- .....- ......- ..........____ .49

.49

TC>T.AL..._.. _........_................- ..............-..............-...$304.28

No.

DECOT O CHRIST MAS AND ENTERT AINME NT FUND, 1950-1951
Amount
Amount No. Lodge
Lodge

Tehama .............................
8 Tuolum ne ........................
9 Corinth ian ......................
10 San Jose ..........................
12 Yount... .............................
13 Nevada ............................
16 Eureka ..............................
17 La Parfaite Union ........
19 San Joaquin ....................
20 Washi.~gton ....................
21 Hawaua n ........................
22 Occiden tal........................
23 Madison ..........-..............
26 El Dorado ........................
27 Trinity ..............................
30 Golden Gate ....................
35 San Diego ........................
37 Howard ......................~,....
38 Santa Cruz ......................
41 Martine z ..........................
43 Hiram ..............................
44 Mount Moriah ................
45 Crescen t ..........................
46 Texas .,..............................
51 Illinoist own ....................
57 Santa Rosa ......................
58 Union ................................
61 Live Oak ..........................
64 Natoma ............................
70 Enterpr ise ........................
78 Calaver as ........................
81 Yolo ..................................
87 Naval -.!......--···-····- ··-·
93 St. Helena ........................
95 Henry Clay ....................
99 Yosemit e ..........................
101 Clay ..................................
106 Arcata ..............................
110 Pajaro ..............................
111 Chico ................................
117 Concord ............................
120 Fidelity ............................
122 Alamo ..............................
124 Table Mounta in ..............
126 Lafayet te ........................
127 Herman n ..........................
128 Visalia -...........................
129 Nicolaus ..........................
131 Woodbr idge ....................
134 Vacavil le ..........................
136 Pacific ..............................
139 Crocket t ..........................
143 Franklin ..........................
144 Orienta l ............................
150 Molino ..............................
156 Woodla nd ........................
166 Excelsio r ..........................
3

367

10.00 167 Alamed a ..........................
5.00 168 Rt;d~ood City ................
10.00 169 M1Ss1on ............................
15.00 175 Antioch _ .........................
3.50 178 Phoenix ............................
2.50 180 Petalum a ........................
5.00 188 Oakland ..........................
5.00 191 Marin ................................
10.00 192 Santa Barbara ................
10.00 193 Ferndal e ..........................
25.00 194 Mounta in View ..............
20.00 195 Buckeye ..........................
5.00 198 Wilming ton ....................
10.00 199 Hartley ............................
5.00 200 Truckee ............................
25.00 201 Silveyvi lle ......................
25.00 203 Confide nce ......................
10.00 208 Rio Vista ........................
10.00 209 King David's ..................
47.50 210 Friends hip ......................
5.00 211 San Benito ......................
5.00 212 South San Francisc o......
5.00 215 Oak Grove ......................
5.00• 217 Montere y ........................
5.00 218 Mosaic ..............................
10.00 219 Speranz a Italiana ..........
12.50 220 Downey ............................
25.00 222 Rosevill e ..........................
5.00 224 Bakersfi eld ......................
5.00 225 Brookly n ..........................
10.00 226 San Mateo ......................
2.50 228 Athens ..............................
.......
25.00 236 Hills Ferry ...............
5.00 245 Laurel ..............................
2.50 246 Pomona ............................
10.00 247 Fresno ..............................
10.00 253 Landma rk ........................
5.00 254 Reading ..........................
10.00 256 Lodi ..................................
10.00 258 Penrhyn ..........................
10.00 259 Evergre en ........................
25.00 261 Tuscan ..............................
10.00 262 Lompoc ............................
10.00 264 Hesperi an ........................
5.00 265 Orland ..............................
20.00 268 Durant ..............................
10.00 269 Olive Branch ..................
5.00 272 Pasaden a ........................
5.00 274 Arroyo ..............................
5.00 278 Souther n Californ ia ......
20.00 279 Hanford ............................
15.00 280 Madera ............................
5.00 282 Calayom i ........................
25.00 285 San Miguel ......................
5.00 286 Paso Robles ....................
5.00 290 East Gate ........................
12.50 292 Los Gatos ........................

5.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
20.00
12.50
10.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
12.50

368

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP.THE

Amount
No. Lodge
293 Orange Grove ................ 10.00
297 Dunsmuir ···---········-·--····-· 10.00
299 Liberty ............................ 10.00
301 Ontario ............................ 10.00
10.00
305 Azusa -----------·----·-----·--------5.00
306 Ashlar ·--------·--·--·--------·--·-313 Tehachapi ........................ 15.00
2.50
314 Temescal -------------------------5.00
320 South Gate -··---·---···-----·--5.00
321 Alisa! ·-·-·-··---··-----··--·--·----··
324 Corona .............................. 10.00
5.00
326 Needles ............................
327 Long Beach .................... 25.00
5.00
328 Redondo ..........................
10.00
331 Pacific Grove ..................
336 Fruitvale ......................... . 10.00
337 Carquinez ....................... . 10.00
341 Oxnard ............................ 25.00
343 San Fernando .............. ..
15.00
344 Starr King ---------------------- 12.50
346 Palo Alto ........................ 10.00
15.00
347 McKinley ...................... ..
348 San Bernardino .............. 10.00
349 Sequoia ----···--------------------- 10.00
351 Palestine -------------------------- 10.00
353 Pinole ------------------------------ 17.50
356 Mill Valley ---------------------- 25.00
12.50
360 San Francisco -------··------7.50
362 Charity ---------------------------363 Berkeley -------------------------- 10.00
5.00
366 Las Palmas -------------------25.00
367 South Pasadena
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie 25.00
370 Amity ------------------------------ 10.00
374 Jewel ................................
5.00
375 Richmond ........................ 12.50
376 Francis Drake ................ 10.00
377 Artesia ---------------------------- 28.75
379 Fillmore ..........................
15.00
5.00
382 Highland Park ---------------10.00
384 El Centro ------·-·--------------385 Dinuba -----------------·---------- 15.00
10.00
387 Coalinga ·------------------------388 Parnassus ------------------------ 10.00
393 Balder ------------------------------ 50.00
396 Apollo ·---·--·---····---=
·--------·- 10.00
5.00
397 Rising Light ....................
400 Burlin~ame ----·--·-·····------ 20.00
401 Bay View ----·-··--·----·-·--·--- 20.00
5.00
403 Yerba Buena -----------------5.00
407 La Mesa ·----··------···-------·····
409 Honolulu ..........................
25.00
:1:11 Perris ................................ 10.00
ll2 Calexico .......................... 10.00
U5 Silver Trowel ................
5.00
5.00
l25 Holtville ..........................
126 Midway ............................
5.00
:1:28 San Dimas ...................... 20.00
5.00
129 Pittsburg ....................... .
131 Alpha ................................ 15.00

Amount
No. Lodge
434 Maricopa ..........................
5.00
440 Standard ..........................
5.00
441 Coronado ........................
5.00
447 Torrance .......................... 10.00
448 Mount Diablo ................
5.00
449 Park ..................................
5.00
460 Mount Oso ...................... 15.00
461 Argonaut ........................ 10.00
463 Mor·g an Hill ....................
10.50
466 Libertas ..........................
10.00
467 Culver City -----··--------..--- 20.00
5.00
468 Rockridge -----··-·-····-------·-10.00
471 Delta .........----·---·---------·---5.00
477 Temblor ..........................
10.00
478 Thousand Oaks -----------···
479 Golden Rule .................... 10.00
483 Bell ·----·---·---·-··-·---------·----··· 10.00
10.00
484 Albert Pike ....................
486 Caledonia ........................ 17.50
10.00
487 Vallejo··---·------·---·-----·----·-488 Patterson ....................... .
5.00
5.00
489 East Bay ..........................
5.00
491 Woodstock ----·--·-------------·
10.00
493 Atascadero -·-----·-·----------·494 Acorn ·--·-------------·--------·--· 10.00
497 Fremont --·-------·----·--·------· 25.00
5.00
500 Roosevelt ........................
502 Harbor ..............................
5.00
5.00
503 Point ................................
15.00
507 El Segundo ......................
510 Cupertino ........................ 10.00
511 Sunnyvale ...................... 15.00
513 Cahuenga ........................ 10.00
15.00
514 Argonne ·-----------··-··----·-···
516 Taft ..................................
10.00
521 Piedmont ........................ 20.00
525 George Washington ......
5.00
526 Bay City .......................... 10.00
527 Covenant ........................ 10.00
528 Beverly Hills .................. 10.00
530 Sun Garden .................... 25.00
531 Alexandria ......................
5.00
541 Henry Morse Stephens..
5.00
2.50
545 Jonathan ----·-·----------·---·-···
546 San Gabriel .................... 10.00
550 Seaport ............................
5.00
552 Se~per. Vi~ens .............. 10.00
558 Pomt Firrrun ---------··-·----· 10.00
10.00
561 East San Diego -----------·-·
574 S. W. Hackett .................. 20.00
576 El Cajon Valley ----··-----· 10.00
578 Progressive --·-----··---------- 33.00
580 Santa Maria ....................
5.00
581 Security ..........................
5.00
589 Kauai ................................ 25.00
590 Compass .......................... 10.00
595 Alexander Graham Bell 10.00
5.00
596 Guardian ------·----------------603 Dimond ............................ 10.00
609 Provident ........................ 25.00

No.
620
635
638
645
648
650
661
662
665
667
668
673
li75
676
680
681
686
699

Amount
Lodge
Point Loma .................... 10.00
Riverside ........................ 15.00
Indian Rock .................... 10.00
A. F. E. Irwin ................ 10.00
Damascus ........................
5.00
La Brea ............................
10.00
Malta ................................
5.00
Henry Knox ....................
5.00
Kaweah ............................ 10.00
Meridian .......................... 10.00
San Gorgonio .................. 10.00
3.75
Far West ..........................
5.00
Modesto ..........................
5.00
Glen Willow ..................
5.00
Carmel ............................
7.50
Dos Palos ........................
Albany .......................... ..
5.00
San Carlos ...................... 10.00

Total ........... _ ......- ................2,789.50
CHAPTERS R. A. M.
No.
Amt.
San Francisco ......................1 $ 5.00
Sonora ..................................2
5.00
Sacramento ..........................3
5.00
Nevada ........-;...- ...................6
2.50
Grass Valley ......................18
2.50
Petaluma .............................22
1.25
Delta ....................................27
5.00
Martinez ..............................31
5.00
Siloam ..................................37
5.00
Santa Cruz ..........................38
2.50
Chico ....................................42
5.00
Visalia ...............! ..................44
12.50
Keystone ................- ...........56
5.00
San Luis Obispo ................62
2.50
St. Helena ............................63
5.00
Antioch ................................65
5.00
Riverside ............................67
2.50
Crown ..................................72
5.00
Hanford ................................74
25.00
Pomona ................................76
5.00
Ferndale ..............................78
5.00
San Pedro ............................89
5.00
Whittier ..............................91
10.00
Palo Alto ............................93
5.00
Fidelity ................................96
5.00
Redondo ............................101
5.00
Marin ..................................102
5.08
Mill Valley ........................108
5.00
El Centro ..........................109
5.00
South Pasadena ..............112
5.00
Sebastopol .-....................117
5.00
Hollywood ........................120
5.00
Huntington Park ............127
5.00
Searchlight ......................133
10.00
Wilmington ......................141
5.00
Roseville ............................146
2.50
Chapter

Total ........................................$198.75

369

COMMANDERIES, K. T.
Amt.
Cornmandery
No.
California ··-···- --·········-··--···1 $ 12.50
5.00
Sacramento -··---····--·-····.2
5.00
Pacific .•._ .............................3
10.00
Oroville ....- .........................5
2.50
Nevada ..............- .................6
Marysville ............................7
5.00
San Jose ............................-10
5.00
Chico ....................................12
5.00
Santa Rosa ..........................14
18.61
Naval ....................................19
5.00
Watsonville ........................22
5.00
St. Bernard .................... 23
7.50
Visalia ..................................26
12.50
San Luis Obispo ................27
2.50
Pasadena ..............................31
10.00
Mt. Shasta ..........................82
10.00
Ukiah ....................................33
10.00
Eureka ................................315
5.00
Southern California ..........37
10.00
San Francisco ....................41
5.00
Santa Cruz ..........................-44
2.75
Palo Alto .......................- ..•7
5.00
Whittier ..............................61
10.00
Auburn ................................62
5.00
Hollywood ...........................156
15.00
San Pedro ............................60
5.00
Calvary ................................62
10.00
Total ............- .........................$203.86
COUNCILS R. It S. M.
Council
No.
Sacramento ........................ 1 $
Gateway .........- ..................13
Pasadena ........__................:18
Santa Cruz ._..............- .....17
Pomona ................................21
Hollywood ..........................33

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50

Total ..........................................$25.00

A. &: A. S. R.
Amt.
California Lodge of Perfection $12.50
Fresno Lodge of Perfection.... 75.00
Oakland Bodies ........ :............... 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ...................... 20.00
Sacramento Bodies .........,........ 12.50
Total ........................................$145.00
. DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATIONS
Amt.
366th District ................................$10.00
Santa Clara Valley (Districts
53, 54 & 124) .............................. 5.00
Total .............................................115.00

370

PROCE EDING S OP THE

CHAP TERS , 0. E. S.

Chapter

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

MISC ELLA NEOU S

No.

Amt.

San Rafae l ·········-············.215
Mill Valley ........................219

$10.00
10.00

Total _____ .....................................$20.00

Amt.
James E. Rober tson .....................$ 5.00
633 Club ..........................................1o.~
Harry W. Wems e (1) ................ 5.vu
Verno n C. Noble .......................... 5.00
Total .....................................,....$25.00

MASO NIC HOME S OF CALI FORN IA

DECO TO, CALI FORN IA

ANNU AL REPO RT 1950-1951
CONT RIBU TION S
Augus t 2, 1950- Mrs. B. S . WeJ.1:8,
1623 Bever ly Place, Berke ley, Calif.
Men's clothi ng.
Augus t 22, 1950- Mr. John W.
Bassf ord 1450 - 2nd Avenu e, Oakland, caiif. 3 piece Cheste rf!eld set.
Augus t 22-, 1950-~. J. 0 C::o~or,
Encin itas Califo rnia. Comb matlo n
Magnavo~ Radio .
Augus t 30, 1950- Mr. John W.
Bassfo rd, 1450 - 2nd Avenu e, O~­
land, Calif. 2 ice boxes , bed, spring
and mattre ss.
Septe mber 10, 1950 - Mr. R. V.
Nicke rson, addre ss unkno wn. Large
suppl y of scratc h pads.
Septe mber 14, 1950 - Mr. Arche r
and Mr. Davis, Bethl ehem Lodge No.
453 San Franci sco. Canes .
Septe mber 15, 1951 - W. E. Van
Doren , 1543 - 34th Avenu e, San Francisco, Calif. Suppl y of tobacc o. .
Septe mber 27, 1950-Vfoodbrid~e
Lodge No. 131, Wood bridge , California . Two boxes of grapes .
Septe mber 27, 1950 - Verm ont
Squar e Lodge No. 515, Los ~geles,
Califo rnia. Four boxes of weari ng apparel.
Septe mber 27, 1950 - Los. Gaf.:Os
Lodge No. 292, Los Gatos , Califo rnia.
Hats, clothin g, etc.
Septe mber 30 1950 - Rober t A.
Peabo dy, Secre tary,. Linco ln. Lod~e
No. 470, San Franci sco, Califo rnia.
Clothe s, hats, etc.
Octob er 19, 1950- Mrs. Nora Ne!son 1609 Bento n St., Alame da, Califon'iia . Men's clothi ng.
.
Octob er 21. 1950- Mrs. Carrie Drycelius 1841 Hardm an Ave., Napa,
Calif~mia. Men's and .wome n's clothing, books and magaz mes.
Octob er 23, 1950 - Phoen ix. Lod~e
No. 178, San Berna rdino, Califo rnia.
Magaz ines.

Octob er 30, 1950- Niron C. Smit~,
2522 W Street , Sacram ento, California . Box of persim mons.
Novem ber 5, 1950 - Mr. Thom as
Kettle son 1460 - 7th Ave., San Francisco. Tw~ minia ture wishin g wells.
Novem ber 6, 1950 - Jesse W.
Barne s, M.D., 1536 N. Hunte r, Stock ton Calif. Men's clothi ng.
'
Novem
ber 7, 1950 -;--- Slette !l'D
s .epartm ent Store, Niles, Califo rnia.
175 Baby orchid s.
Novem ber 27, 1950 - Mr. Georg e
DeKa y, 406 Boynt on Ave., Berke ley,
Calif. Clothi ng.
·
Novem ber 27 1950 -- Mrs. Iva G.
Kuhn 1420 Fr'ank lin St., Oakla nd,
Calif. ' Books and magaz ines.
Decem ber 3, 1950 - Mrs. Floren ce
Brown , 1770 Broad way, Oakla nd,
Calif. Minia ture Christ mas ~r~es.
Decem ber 5, 1950- Mr. Willis McBeth, W.M., Park Boulev8:1'd Lod~e
No. 568, Oakla nd, Califo rnia. Mobil e
chair electr ically opera ted.
De~ember 16, 1950 - Dr. J. W.
Barne s, 1536 N. Hunte r, Stockt!>n,
Califo rnia. Overc oat, socks and t~es.
Decem ber 18, 1950- Mrs. Ernes tme
Green Past Matro n, Clear Lake
Chapt~r, Lakep ort. C~alifornia. Christ mas gifts for the ladies .
Decem ber 18, 1950 - Mr. ~nut
Knuts en, 209 Post St., San .Franc iscc:
Calif. 2 copies of "Sun Split Cloud s. 1
Decem ber 19, 1950 - Mrs. Lucy
Chane y, 659 So. 9th Street , San Jose,
Calif. Phono graph record s.
Decem ber 24, 1950 - Mr. P. ~­
Briggs , Pow~r Bldg., Fresno , California . Clothm g.
.
Decem ber 26, 1950 - ~ortervll1:e
Lo~e No. 303, Porter ville, California . Box of orange s.
Decem ber 26, 1950 Frank lin

371

Chapt er No. 20, R.A.M., Orovi lle, son, 1415
Rhiem Ave., Richm orid,
Califo rnia. Five gallon keg of ripe Calif.
Magaz ines.
olives .
March 11, 1951- Mr. & Mrs. Otis S.
Decem ber 26, 1950- -0rovi lle Lodge Olson,
3849 Conco rd Blvd., Conco rd,
Lodge No. 103, F. & A. M., Orovil le, Ca.lif.
Box of walnu ts.
Califo rnia. Five gallon keg ripe
March 11, 1951- Mrs. Wm. Meinolives .
2745 Webs ter St., San Franc isDecem ber 30, 1950- Mr. Jack H. hardt,
Clothi ng.
Walle r, 4208 Came ro Ove., Los Ange- co.March
11, 1951- Mr. Hary E. Solles, Calif. Clothi ng.
ger, Jr. Warde n, Teham a Lodge
Janua ry 1, 1951- Mr. & Mrs. Roy lenber
No. 3, Sacram ento, Calif. Lot of magKuhn, 1318 Lake sho1 e, Oakla nd, azines
.
Calif. Magaz ines.
March
11, 1951 - Mr. Fran k E.
Janua ry 1, 1951- Mr. Willia m Wolff
2745 Webs ter Street , San Fran& Mr. Bob Drew, San Franci sco, Witte,
cisco. Clothi ng.
Calif. Magaz ines.
March 17, 1951- Chas. L . Snyde r,
Janua ry 3, 1951 - F. Lapzie s, 1847 1045
Ave., San Jose, Calif. One
Grant Ave., San Franci sco, Calif. MagnBird
olia tree.
Nation al Geogr aphic Magaz ines.
March
Janua ry 12, 1951- Mr. Herbe rt L. ter, Occid18, 1951- R. P. Elder, MasLodge No. 22, LarkKimba ll, 7034 Chabo t Road, Oakla nd, spur, Calif.ental
Box of wome n's clothi ng.
Calif. Clothi ng and shoes. .
March 18, 1951- John Von Stade n,
Janua ry 13, 1951- Mr. F. D. How- 1430 Morto
n Street , Alame da, Calif.
ell, 101 N. Citrus Ave., Los Angel es, Box of
wome n's hats and clothi ng.
Calif. Pocke t books .
March
1951 - H. C. Benso n,
Janua ry 20, 1951- Mrs. Vada Lew- 10115 San30,
Leand ro Street , Oakla nd,
is, 201 North M Street , Mader a, Calif. Calif. 15 boxes
of candy .
Wome n's clothi ng.
March 30, 1951 - Mrs. Irene De
Janua ry 26, 1951- Mr. F. D. How- Moor, Presid
ell, 155 Spruc e Ave., Menlo Park, ciation of ent, 1943 Esthe r's AssoSan Franci sco, 153 - 17th
Calif. Pocke t books .
Avenu e, San Franci sco. Box of jams
Febru ary 11, 1951- Mr. Leroy D. and jellies
.
Kuhn, 1318 Lakes hore Ave., Oakla nd,
March 30, 1951 - Stewa rt LockCalif. Magaz ines.
wood,
Carlsb ad Avenu e, Sacra Febru ary 11, 1951 - Mr. Gilbe rt mento. 2381
Magaz ines.
Greer & Mr. Steve n Yarem a, Trave lApril 4, 1951 - C. M. Dunie cllif,
er's Lodge No. 692, Sacra mento , Calif. Clovis Lodge
No. 417, Clovis , Calif.
Magaz ines.
Two Mason ic Bibles .
Febru ary 18, 1951- Mr. Milton W.
April 15, 1951- Miss Sara E. BassBeik, 341 Orcha rd Ave., Sunny vale, ford, 14502nd Avenu e, Oakla nd.
Calif. Magaz ines.
Clothe s, hat, shoes, and radio.
Febru ary 22, 1951 - Mr. J. W.
April 22, 1951 - Mr. R. M. Lane,
Brook s, 1532 - 5oth Ave., Oakl and, Box 11, Sunol , Calif. Magaz ines.
Calif. Magaz ines.
May 13, 1951- Mr. W. W. Glasse r,
Febru ary 28, 1951 - Mr. Andre w 1250-45th Street , Emery ville. 4 years
Burke , Secret ary, Mason ic Board of of Fortu ne Magaz ines.
May 13, 1951 - Mr. Nicke rson, 19
Relief , San Franc isco, Calif. Trunk
Napie r Ave., Oakla nd, Calif. Scratc h
of clothi ng.
Febru ary 28, 1951 - Mr. Samu el pads.
May 13, 1951 - Mr. & Mrs. Roy
Worsw ick, Secret ary, Mason ic Board
Kuhn, 1318 Lake shore , Oakla nd,
of Relief , Oakla nd, Calif. Clothi ng.
Calif. Magaz ines.
March 5, 1951- Mrs. Hazel JohnMay 15, 1951- F. D. Howe ll, 101 N.
ston, 2083-19th Ave., San Franci sco.
Citrus Avenu e, Los Angel es. Maga Men's clothi ng.
zines.
March 11, 1951- Mrs. Olive Morris ,
May 18, 1951 - Starr King Lodge
1901 Cuttin g Blvd., Richm ond, Calf.
No. 344, F. & A . M., San Franc isco,
Magaz ines.
Calif. Croqu et set.
March 11, 1951- Mrs. Glady s MidJune 3, 1951 -Mrs. Velma Daly,
dleton , 1901 Cuttin g Blvd., Richm ond,
2418 - 32nd Avenu e, San Franc isco,
Calif. Magaz ines.
Calif. 2 suits of men's clothe s, overMarch 11, 1951- Mrs. Ellora Even- coat and
hat.

372

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

June 8, 1951-Mrs. E. J. Culoer, 320
Manhattan Place, Los Angeles. 4
suits, 2 hats, assortment of shoes,
slippers, shirts.
June 13, 1951-Andrew Burke, Masonic Board of Relief, San Francisco.
Radio, Graphophone ar.d rocker donated by a Mrs. Ballard.
June 20, 1951 - F. Lapzies, 1847
Grant Avenue, San Francisco. Magazines.
June 20, 1951 - Mrs. Winifred F.
Smith, 4471-48th Street, San Diego.
Men's clothing and shoes.
June 21, 1951-Mr. Basil B. Rouse,
Veterans Home, Calif. 1 Wheel chair.
June 30, 1951- Los Gatos Lodge
No. 292, F. & A. M., Los Gatos. As-

sortment of jams, jellies and canned
fruits.
July 4, 1951-Mr. R. H. Drews &
Mr. Wm. Wolff, San Francisco, Calif.
Magazines.
July 10, 1951--C. Lee Robson, 764
Hesperian Ave., Los Angeles. Box of
books.
July 11, 1951 - Mr. Cunningham,
Point Lodge No. 503, .Richmond, Calif.
2 Boxes of Plums.
July 16, 1951-Mrs. Ja.ck G. Hamilton, 2811 Durant Avenue, Oakland.
Books.
July 24, 1951 - Mr. Marion Williams, Woodbridge Lodge No. 131,
Woodbridge. Box of apples.

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

DECOTO. CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1950-1951
VISIT A TIO NS

August 6, 1950. Church services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
August 11, 1950. John P. Jarman
Lodge No. 669, San Jose, Third Degree.
August 13, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Christian Church, Hayward.
August 16, 1950. Military Service
Lodge No. 570. San Francisco, Degree
work.
August 19, 1950. East Bay Past Matrons Association. Annual visitation.
August 20, 1950. East Bay Masters
and Wardens. Visitation and barbecue.
August 26, 1950. San Mateo Lodge
No. 226, San Mateo. Third Degree
August 27, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Paul B. Rhodes, First Presbyterian Church, Hayward.
September 10, 1950. Church services: Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
September 15, 1950. Lincoln Lodge
No. 470, San Francisco. Entertainment.
September 16, 1950. Church services: Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First
Christian Church, Hayward.
September 16, 1950. Crockett Lodge
No. 139, San Francisco. Entertainment and Degrees.
September 22, 1950. Foothill Lodge
No. 564, Oakland. Entertainment.
September 23, 1950. Salinas Lodge
No. 204, Salinas. Degree Work.

September 24, 1950. Church services: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
September 29, 1950. Visitation by
Trustees of Masonic Homes.
September 30, 1950. Francis K.
Shattuck Lodge No. 571, Berkeley.
Degree Work.
October 1, 1950. Church services:
Rev. West, Baptist Church, Hayward.
October 8, 1950. Church services:
Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
October 11, 1950. Grand Lodge Visitation.
October 14, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Christian Church, Hayward.
October 22, 1950. 36th Masonic District. Entertainment.
October 29, 1950. Church services:
Rev. V. A. Robinson, Congregational
Church, Hayward.
October 31, 1950. Halloween Party.
November 4, 1950. 51st Masonic
District. Visitation and Entertainment.
November 5, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Paul Focht, Congregational
Church, Niles.
November 12, 1950. Church services: Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First
Christian Church, Hayward.
November 19, 1950. Church services: Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
November 26, 1950. Church serv-

373

March 10, 1951. Lodi Lodge No.
ices: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
256, Lodi. Third Degree.
Church. Hayward.
March 11, 1951. Job's Daughters,
December 3, 1950. Church services:
Rev. Paul Focht, Congregational Bethel No. 37. Entertainment.
March 11, 1951. Church services:
Church, Niles.
December 10, 1950. Church serv- Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Chrisices: Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity tian Church, Hayward.
March 18, 1951. Church services:
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
December 17, 1950. Church serv- Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity
ices: Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Episcopal Church, Hayward.
March 25, 1951. Church services:
Christian Church, Hayward.
December 19, 1950. Washington · Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Township Girl Scouts. Christmas Church, Hayward.
April 1, 1951. Church services: Rev.
Program.
December 23, 1950 San Jose Rain- Paul Focht, Congregational Church,
bow Girls. Christmas Program.
Niles.
April 2, 1951. Tracy Lodge No. 462
December 24, 1950. Church services: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist and Tracy Hi Twelve Club. First
Church, Hayward.
Degree.
April 5, 1951. Southern Trustees
December 24, 1950. Hayward Chapter Job's Daughters. Christmas Car- visited Home.
April 8, 1951. Church services: Rev.
ols.
December 30, 1950. New Year's Harold V. Reeves, First Christian
Eve Party. Mrs. Motter's Dancing Church, Hayward.
April 8, 1951. Job's Daughters
Girls.
December 31, 1950. Church serv- Bethel No. 174, Campbell, Calif. Enices: Rev. R. C. Norberg, Eden Con- tertainment.
April 14, 1951. San Mateo Lodge
gregational Church, Hayward.
January 7, 1951. Church services: No. 226, San Mateo. Visitation and
Rev. Paul Focht, Congregational Degree.
April 15, 1951. Church services:
Church, Hayward.
January 14, 1951. Church services: Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Chris- Episcopal Church, Hayward.
April 15, 1951. Thousand Oaks
tian Church, Hayward.
January 21, 1951. Church services: Lodge No. 478, Berkeley. EntertainRev. G. C. ~inshelwood, Trinity ment.
April 20, 1951. Amity Lodge No.
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
January 28, 1951. Church services: 370, San Francisco. First Degree.
April 21, 1951. Utopia Lodge No.
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
537, Los Angeles. Program.
Church, Hayward.
April 22, 1951. Church services:
January 28, 1951. Alameda RainRev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
bow Girls. Entertainment.
February 6, 1951. Movies of Alaska Church, Hayward.
April 28, 1951. Oakdale Lodge No.
by Casper Laws.
February 7, 1951. Ash Wednesday 275, Oakdale. Third Degree.
April 29, 1951. Church services:
Church Services: Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Rev. R. C. Norberg, Eden Congregational Church, Hayward.
Hayward.
February 9. 1951. Pajaro Lodge No.
April 29, 1951. Starr King Lodge
110, Watsonville. Third Degree.
No. 344, San Francisco. Visitation.
February 11, 1951. Church services:
May 5, 1951. Sacramento Lodge
Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity No. 40, Sacramento. Third Degree.
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
May 6, 1951. Church services: Rev.
February 18, 1951. Church services: Paul Focht, Congregational Church,
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First Chris- Niles.
tian Church, Hayward.
May 6, 1951. Dimond Lodge No.
March 4, 1951. Church services: 603, Oakland. Program.
Rev. Paul Focht, Congregational
May 12, 1951. Paul Revere Lodge
Church, Niles.
March 9, 1951. George Washington No. 462, San Francisco. Third Degree.
May 13, 1951. Mother's Day RecepLodge No. 525, San Francisco. First
tion and Tea.
Degree.

374

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

May 15, 1951,. Ingleside Lodge No.
June 10, 1951. Church services·
630, San Francisco. Third Degree.
~ev. Harold V. Reeves, First Chris~
May 16, 1951. Decoto Grammar ban Church, Hayward.
School, Decoto. Program.
June 16, 1951. Officers of 354th
May 19, 195~. Mission Lodge No. Masonic District, Emeryville. Second
169, San Francisco. Third Degree.
Degree.
May 20, 1951. Church services: Rev.
June 17, 1951. Church services:
Harold V. Reeves, First Christian Rev. G. C. Hinshelwood Trinity
Church, Hayward.
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
May 20, 1951. San Francisco ChapJune 23, 1951: Seaport Lodge No.
ter DeMolay, San Francisco. Mother's 550,
San Francisco. Entertainment
Day Program.
and Second Degree.
May 20, 1951. Alexandria Lodge ·
June 24, 1951. Church services:
No. 531, San Francisco. Visitation.
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
May 26, 1951. John Marshall Lodge Church,
Hayward.
No. 636, Beverly Hills. Third Degree.
June 26, 1951. Mountain View
May 27. 1951. Church services: Rev. Lodge
No. 194, Second Degree.
Myron Herrell, Methodist Church
June 30, 1951. Los Gatos Lodge No.
Hayward.
' 292,
Los Gatos. Third Degree.
May 27, 1951. Job's Daughters of
July 1, 1951. Church services: Rev.
Los Gatos. Entertainment.
Paul Focht, Congregational Church
. Ma~ 30, 1951. Memorial Day Serv- Niles.
'
ices.
·
July 8, 1951. Church services: Rev.
June 1, 1951. San Francisco Elks G. C. Hinshelwood, Trinity Episcopal
Club. Vaudeville show.
Church, Hayward.
June 2, 1951. Warren G. Harding
July 13, 1951. Girls from the MaLodge No. 579, North Sacramento. sonic Home in Covina visited the
Program and Degree.
Home.
July 15, 1951. Church services:
June 3, 1951. Church services: Rev.
Rev. Harold V. Reeves, First ChrisP~ul Focht, Congregational Church
Niles.
' tian Church, Hayward.
July 22, 1951. Church services:
June 3, 1951. Parnassus Lodge No.
388, San Francisco. Visitation and Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
entertainment.
July 27, 1951. Grand Master, ArJune 8, 1951. Live Oak Lodge No. thur Paulsen, visited the Home.
61, Oakland. Third Degree.
July 29, 1951. Church services: Rev.
June 9, 1951. Point Lodge No. 503 R. C. Norberg, Eden Congregational
' Church, Hayward.
Richmond. Degree work.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

375

. Children at Covina Home-July 31, 1951
Boys-34
Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Achenbach, Howard ..........9-11-49 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ....._... 7
Angel, William ....................3-22-46 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles _........15
Armstrong, James ·········-···12-21-47 Tyrian ................439 Manteca ................ 16
Armstrong, Robert ............12-21-47 Tyrian ................439 Manteca ................14
Ashurst, Ellis ........................2-22-47 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara......14
Ashurst, Larry ......................2-22-47 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara......11
Barham, Thomas ..................6-27-51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .......... 6
Barham, Jerry ......................6-27-51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .......... 4
Beard, Paul ..............................8-6-46 Order of Grand
Master
12
Beard, Robert ..........................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
10
Beard, William ......................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
14
Beckman, Charles ..............11-12-49 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ................10
Biss, Donald ..........................10-1-50 San Gorgonio......668 Banning ................15
Burkhalter, Charles ............3-26-45 Mount Olive........506 Los .Angeles ..........12
Case, Arthur ..........................9-24-46 W. Los Angeles..373 W. Los Angeles....12
Darling, Truman ..................1-28-48 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara .......... 8
Diercks, Donald ..................11-26-43 Golden State......358 Los Angeles ..........17
Dyer, John ..............................7-8-40 Yorba Linda........469 Yorba Linda..........17
Edwards, Roland ..................2-26-50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ... _ ........14
Eller, Harold ........................6-23-44 Meridian ............667 Glendale ·-····--...13
Eller, Harry ..........................5-24-43 Meridian ............667 Glendale _ ...........16
Fifield, Jerald ......................8-31-50 Benevolence ......631 Los Angeles .......... 12
Finney, Charles ......................7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ....._...10
· Finney, Michael ....................7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach .......... 8
Flannigan, Richard ..............1-28-50 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 8
Foster, Kenneth ......................7-8-51 Signal ..................543 Long Beach .......... 9
Harris, Earl ..., ......- .............-4-28-51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................14
Joy, Harry ..............................8-10-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .......... 9
Joy, William ..........................6-15-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ......~...14
Mason, David ..........................7-2-44 Friendship ..........210 San Jose .................12
Place, Barry ......._ ..................8-9-.47 Burlingame ........400 Burlingame ..........11
Trebell, Thomas ;.................7-10-47 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach....16
Whitney, William ................9-11-49 Maricopa ............434 Maricopa ·······- --17
Woodry, William ..................8-23-50 Glendale ............544 Glendale .............. 9

Children at Covina Home -

July 31, 1951

Girls-25
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
To wn
Age
Achenbach, Patricia ............9-11-48 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles .......... 9
Allison, Linda ......................6-17-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton ·- ..-······---·11
Allison, Laura ........................4-1-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton ..................16
Allison, Patricia ....................4-1-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton _ ...............15
Barham, Patricia ..................6-27-51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .......... 7
Beard, Patricia ........................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master
16
Biss, Vera ..............................10-1-50 San Gorgonio......668 Bannin·g ................ 9
Biss, Vicki .......: ....................10-1-50 San Gorgonio......668 Banning ................ 7
Bowman, Lorraine ..............8-31-45 Coronado ............441 Coronado ......- ...15
Readmitted ..........................8-2-49
Burkhalter, Sue Jane..........3-26-45 Mount Olive........506 Los Angeles ..........17

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Darling, Mary ......................8-26-46 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........12
Edwards, Donna ..................2-26-50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............10
Harris, Bonnie ......................4-28-51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................10
Johnson, Judith ......................9-8-49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ..........10
Johnson, Kathleen ................9-8-49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles .......... 8
Leach, Madelyn ....................10-1-50 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica........14
Offinga, Barbara ..................8-13-42 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ..........17
Offinga, Elinor ........................8-4-44 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ..........12
Pease, Joanne ......................7-18-47 Live Oak.............. 61 Oakland ................14
Porter, Susan ........................9-12-50 Mount Olive........ 506 Los Angeles .......... 12
Rose, Loma ............................9-9-50 Temple City........576 El Cajon ................ 7
Wallen, Jo Ann. ...................... .4-1-44 Unity .................. 368 Glendale .............. 13
Readmitted ........................9-6-48
Weist, Nancy ........................8-25-46 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ... :......13
Williams, Jeannette ..............6-2-43 Ione ...................... 80 Ione ........................14
Williams, Suzanne ................6-2-43 Ione ...................... 80 Ione ........................18

Admitted to Covina Home-August 1, 1950 to July 31, 1951
Boys-8
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Barham, Earle Thomas........6-27-51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .......... 6
Barham, Jerry ......................6-27-51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .......... 4
Biss, Donald ..........................10-1-50 San Gorgonio......668 Banning ................14
Farrington, Jack
Readmitted ........................5-19-51 Montebello ....... .451 Montebello ..........14
Foster, Kenneth .................... 7-8-51 Signal ..................543 Long Beach .......... 9
Fifield, Jerald ......................8-31-50 Benevolence ......631 Los Angeles ..........11
Harris, Earl ..........................4-28-51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................14
Woodry, William ..................8-23-50 Glendale ............544 Glendale .............. 9

Girls-7
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Barham, Patricia ................6-27-51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .......... 7
Biss, Vera ···············-·············10-1-50 San Gorgonio .... 668 Banning ................ 8
Biss, Vickie ............................10-1-50 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning ................ 6
Harris, Bonnie ......................4-28-51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................ 9
Leach, Madelyn ....................10-1-50 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica........13
Porter, Susan ........................9-12-50 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ..........11
Rose, Loma ............................9-9-50 Temple City........576 El Cajon ................ 6

Departed During the Year -

August 1, 1950 to July 31, 1951

Boys-11
Name
Admitted
Averill, Gordon ................................................ 2-19-49
Bish, Thomas .................................................... 9-16-47
*Doherty, Frank ................................................ 7- 6-44
Farrington, Jack-Readmitted .................... 5-19-51
*Mason, Rollin .................................................. 2-12-44
Marvin, Marshall ............................................ 9- 8-46
Miller, Brian ....................................... _............12- 4-49
Parker, Lowell ................................................ 9- 5-41
•Schelling, Eugene .......................................... 7-27-39
*Mills, Kenneth ....................................... _....... 11-17-40
Westlake, Robert ............................................ 1- 9-49

377

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Departed
1-15-51
8- 4-50
6-17-51
5-21-51
6-21-51
2- 2-51
8- 6-50
8-31-50
6-21-51
7- 1-51
7-25-51

Age
11
11
17
14
18
18
12
15
18
18
10

Girls-2
Name
Admitted
*Biggs, Mary ·················································-··12-31-47
Pearce, Joyce ···········-······································· 9- 8-48
*Graduate.

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home Pilz, Theodore ................................Alcatraz

244

Departed
2- 1-51
7-29-51

Age
17
15

July 31, 1951
November, 1946

Visitations to Lodges
By Mr. Henry, Mrs. Henry and/or Children
November 11, 1950: Mr. Henry was
guest at the dinner meeting of The
Edison Masonic Club.
March 22, 1951: Mr. and Mrs.
Henry were guests of The Westerners Masonic Club at a dinner in celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the club.
April 2, 1951: At the stated meeting of All States Lodge No. 593, Mr.
Henry and children from the Masonic Home were special guests.
Linda Allison, Bill Angel, Ellis Ashurst, Larry Ashurst, Billy Edwards,
Bill Joy, Judy Johnson and Kathleen
Johnson participated in the program.
May 3, 1951: Bill Angel (Intermediate Boy) was the guest of East

Gate Lodge No. 290, at their stated
meeting.
May 6, 1951: Each group in the
Home was represented in a program
presented by the children of the Los
Angeles Masonic Board of Relief. A
feature of this program was the Masonic Home Choral Group. Mr.
Henry accompanied the children.
May 7, 1951: Mrs. Henry and Laura
Allison, '52, were guests at the dinner
meeting of Damascus Lodge No.
648. Mr. Henry, Bill Angel, Ellis
Ashurst, Earl Harris and Bill Joy
were guests at the stated meeting of
Anchor Lodge No. 273.
May 16, 1951: Mr. Henry was guest
speaker at a special meeting of San
Pedro Lodge No. 332.

Visitations to Covina Home
August 1, 1950 to July 31, 1951
September, 1950:
3 San Jacinto Lodge No. 338.
12 Superintendent of Schools,
Supervisors, Board Members
and Teachers of Charter Oak
School District (Luncheon).
17 Redlands Lodge No. 300.
Bethel No. 50, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Vallee de France Lodge No.
329.
24 Alumni Home-Coming Day.
October, 1950:
1 Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
15 Bethel No. 157, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Bethel No. 125, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Mothers' Club of Bethel No.
125.

Mr. Earl F. Sayre, Junior
Warden, Pearl Harbor Lodge
No. 598.
16 Hon. Ellsworth Meyer, P.G.M.,
and Mrs. Meyer.
Mr. Archie C. Camp, Junior
Warden, Le Progres De
L'Oceanie Lodge No. 371.
Mr. Eugene P. Jijine, Inspector
382nd District, Maui, T. H.
Mr. G.D. Grobler, Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598.
Mr. William L. Smith, Senior
Warden, Le Progres De
L'Oceanie Lodge No. 371.
Mr. James Moir, Junior Warden, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.

378

November, 1950:
1 Whittier College Social Welfare Class.
5 548th Masonic District Officers' Association Breakfast.
19 Atwater Lodge No. 622.
Bellflower Assembly No. 35,
Order of the Rainbow for
Girls.
Golden Poppy Assembly No.
85, Order of the Rainbow for
Girls.
December, 1950:
1 Board of Trustees of Masonic
Homes of California, General
meeting.
3 Westchester Assembly No. 121,
Order of the Rainbow for
Girls.
9 Gleaners' Club, Escondido
Chapter No. 145, 0. E. S.
17 The Westerners Masonic Club.
22 Rosemead Assembly, L. T.,
Order of the Rainbow for
Girls.
24 Bethel No. 27, Order of Job's
Daughters.
28 Covina Rotary Club (Luncheon).
January, 1951:
21 Masonic Homes Endowment
Board.
23 Board of Trustees of Masonic
Homes of California.
Mr. John M. Downen.
Mr. James R. Eubanks.
April, 1951:
1 Redondo Assembly No. 66,
Order of the Rainbow for
Girls.
15 John Marshall Lodge No. 636.
Holly Vista Chapter No. 517,
O.E.S.
Malta Lodge No. 661.
May, 1951:
6 Garvanza Lodge No. 492.
Garvanza Chapter No. 266,

0.E.S.
Anchor Lodge No. 273.
Bethel No. 96, Order of Job's
Daughters.
North Hollywood Lodge No.
542.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592.
20 All States Lodge No. 593.
Bethel No. 5, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Bethel No. 33, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Bethel No. 50, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Bethel No. 112, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Bethel No. 176, Order of Job's
Daughters.
Fontana Lodge No. 653.
Norwalk Lodge No. 315.
San Antonio Lodge No. 694.
Selma Lodge No. 277.
Southern California Lodge No.
278.
Torrance Lodge No. 447.
West Adams Lodge No. 565.
June, 1951:
3 Arcadia Chapter No. 471,
O.E.S.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547.
Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699.
Monrovia Masonic Bodies.
Ramona Lodge No. 457.
South Park Lodge No. 563.
10 Menasco Masonic Club.
17 Benjamin Franklin Lodge No.
509.
Damascus Lodge No. 648.
James A. Foshay Lodge No.
641.
Rim of the World Lodge No.
711.
July, 1951:
1 Pasadena Assembly No. 107,
Order of the Rainbow for
Girls.
No further visitations due to
summer camp activities.

379

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

COVINA CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND, 1950-1951

No. Lodge
3 Tehama ························-··
8 Tuolumne ........................
9 Corinthian ......................
10 San Jose ..........................
12 Yount ................................
13 Nevada •...........................
16 Eureka ..............................
17 La Parfaite Union ..........
19 San Joaquin ....................
20 Wash~gton ....................
21 Hawauan ·-··········-···--·····
22 Occidental ......................
23 Madison ·····················-·---··
24 Mariposa ....................... .
26 El Dorado ············-··········
27 Trinity ........................... .
30 Golden Gate ..................
35 San Diego ·-·····---·············
37 Howard ·············-·········-···
38 Santa Cruz ·-·················-41 Martinez ..........................
43 Hiram ............................. .
44 Mount Moriah --··-·········-45 Crescent ......................... .
46 Texas ................................
51 Illinoistown ·······-·········-·
57 Santa Rosa ·-················-··
58 Union ·······-··--·················
61 Live Oak-··-···················
64 Natoma ·-·························
70 Enterprise ·-··················--·
78 Calavera, ·········---·-···-·····
80 Ione ·······-·················----·-··
81 Yolo -··-····-··-·-·-···-·---···
87 Naval ................................
93 St. Helena ·-················---···
95 Henry Clay ....................
99 Yosemite ·····-···---·······-···-·
101 Clay ·····-···············-·····:.....
104 Lexington ·-·····--············
106 Arcata ··················--·----··-··
110 Pajaro -·············-············111 Chico --·············-·---···---·····
117 Concord ·-·········----···-······-122 Alamo ·-····-·····················
124 Table Mountain ..............
126 Lafayette ........................
127 Hermann ·-·········----··········
128 Visalia ..............................
129 Nicolaus ..........................
131 Woodbridge ....................
134 Vacaville ..........................
139 Crockett ..........................
143 Franklin ..........................
144 Oriental ···············-···········
150 Molino ..............................
156 Woodland ........................
166 Excelsior ··---··········-··-······

Amount

10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
3.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
47.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
35.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
20.00
2.50
25.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
50.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
12.50

No. Lodge
167
168
169
175
178
180
188
191
192
193
194
195
198
199
200
203
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
217
218
219
220
222
224
225
226
228
236
242
245
246
247
253
256
258
259
261
262
264
265
268
269
272
274
278
279
280
282
285
286
290
292
293

Alameda -····-·················
Rt;d~ood City ................
MJSs1on •...........................
Antioch ······-···················
Phoenix ............................
Petaluma ·············-·········
Oakland ·-·······················
Marin············-···············Santa Barbara ................
Ferndale ..........................
Mountain View ..............
Buckeye ·······-····-···········
Wilmington ....................
Hartley ·-····················-···
Truckee·····- ·····················
Confidence ····-················
Rio Vista ·····-·················
King David's ·············-···
Friendship ......................
San Benito ·-··········-·······
South San Francisco..... .
San Buenaventura ........
Oak Grove ......................
Monterey ........................
Mosaic ·········""··········-·······
Speranza ltaliana ..........
Downey ............................
Roseville ···········-······-······
Bakersfield -·····-······-······
Brooklyn ······•····-·············
San Mateo ......................
Athens ···········-·········-·······
Hills Ferry ......................
Magnolia ·-·················-·····
Laurel ·····-··············-·······
Pomona·····················--····
Fresno ·····-··-····················
Landmark ··················-···
Lodi ..................................
Penrhyn ·······················-·
Evergreen ........................
Tuscan·-···························
Lompoc .........................•..
Hesperian ........................
Orland -···-········--····-···
Durant ............................
Olive Branch ..................
Pasadena ·············-·········
Arroyo ..............................
Southern California ......
Hanford ·-·························
Madera -··························
Calayomi ........................
San Miguel ......................
Paso· Robles ....................
East Gate ........................
Los Gatos ........................
Orange Grove ··············-

Amount

5.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
20.00
12.50
10.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
30.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
55.00
5.00
12.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
12.50
10.00

380
No.

Lodge

297 Dunsmuir ....................... .
299 Liberty ........................... .
301 Ontario ............................
305 Azusa ............................... .
306 Ashlar ..............................
314 Temescal .......•..................
319 Hollenbeck ......................
320 South Gate ..................... .
321 Alisa! ............................... .
322 Alhambra ....................... .
324 Corona ............................. .
326 Needles ........................... .
327 Long Beach ................... .
328 Redondo ..........................
331 Pacific Grove ................. .
336 Fruitvale ..........................
337 Carquinez ....................... .
341 Oxnard ........................... .
343 San Fernando ............... .
344

346
347
348
349
351
353

~~g

362
363
366
367
371
370
372
374
375
376
377
378
379
382
384
385
387
388
393
394
396
397
400
402
403
405
407
409
411
412
415
416

Starr King ..................... .
Palo Alto ....................... .
McKinley ·······-···············
San Bernardino ............. .
Sequoia ........................... .
Palestine ......................... .
Pinole ............................. .
Mill Valley ..................... .
San Francisco ............... .
Charity ........................... .
Berkeley ..........................
Las Palmas ................... .
South Pasadena ........... .
le Progres de L'Oceanie
Amity ..............................
Gardena ......................... .
Jewel ................................
Richmond ....................... .
Francis Drake ~---···········
Artesia ........................... .
Mizpah ........................... .
Fillmore ......................... .
Highland Park ............... .
El Centro ....................... .
Dinuba ........................... .
Coalinga ......................... .
Parnassus ....................... .
Balder -----------···················
University ....................... .
Apollo ............................. .
Rising Light ................... .
Burlingame ................... .
Brawley ......................... .
Yerba Buena ..................
Moneta ........................... .
La Mesa ........................... .
Honolulu ......................... .
Perris ............................... .
Calexico ......................... .
Silver Trowel ............... .
Lindsay ........................... .

Amount

No.

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
50.00
5.00
5.00
50.00
10.00 .
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
12.50
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.50
25.00
12.50
7.50
10.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
45.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
28.75
22.75
15.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
50.00
125.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
64.00

421 Inglewood ....................... .
425 Holtville ..........................
426 Midwa;v ............................
428 San Drmas ......................
429 Pittsburg ........................
431 Alpha ............................... .
434 Maricopa ......................... .
438 Acacia ............................. .
440 Standard ..........................
441 Coronado ....................... .
447 Torrance ..........................
448 Mount Diablo ............... .
449 Park ................................. .
460 Mount Oso ......................
461 Argonaut ........................
463 Morgan Hill ....................
466 Libertas ......................... .
467 Culver City ................... .
468 Rockridge ....................... .
471 Delta ................................
475 America ......................... .
477 Temblor ......................... .
478 Thousand Oaks ............. .
479 Golden Rule ....................
483 Bell ................................... .
484 Albert Pike ...•................
485 Chowchilla ......................
486 Caledonia ·····-·················
487 Vallejo ............................. .
488 Patterson ....................... .
489 East Bay ..........................
491 Woodstock ..................... .
493 Atascadero ..................... .
494 Acorn ............................. .
497 Fremont ..........................
499 Capital City ................... .
500 Roosevelt ........................
502 Harbor ..............................
503 Point ................................
506 Mount Olive ....................
507 El Segundo ..................... .
509 Benjamin Franklin ..... .
510 Cupertino ....................... .

511

513
514
516
520
521
525
526
527
528
530
531
535
540
541
545
546

Lodge

Sunnyvale ......................
Cahuenga ....................... .
Argonne ..........................
Taft ................................. .
Ionic ................................. .
Piedmont ....................... .
George Washington ..... .
Bay City ......................... .
Covenant ....................... .
Beverly Hills ................. .
Sun Garden ................... .
Alexandria ..................... .
Alexander Hamilton ... .
Queen Beach ................. .
Henry Morse Stephens ..
Jonathan -~·-······················
San Gabriel ................... .

381

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
25.00
5.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.50
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
17.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
33.00
15.00
25.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
225.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
10.00

No.

Amount

Lodge

Chapter

No.

Amt.

5.00 Siloam ·-··-·-·-····················37
5.00
2.50
10.00 Santa Cruz ........................•.38
10.00 Chico --··-····················--···42
5.00
10.00 Visalia ·············-·········-··-··°"
12.50
20.00 Dixon ·······-··············--··---4&
10.00
20.00 Keystone ·····················--···56
5.00
2.50
33.00 San Luis Obispo ................63
5.00
5.00 St. Helena ..........................83
5.00 Antioch ························-····.85
5.00
2.50
10.00 Riverside ..........................••81
5.00
25.00 Crown ..................................72
25.00
10.00 Hanford ..............................14
5.00
28.25 Pomona ................................ 76
9.00 Ferndale ·-···························78
5.00
5.00
10.00 San Pedro .......... :.................89
5.00 Whittier ·························-···91
10.00
5.00
10.00 Palo Alto ............................93
15.00
1~:88
25.00 ~~~ei3~bi=i~i"·v~li~y··::::::::i~
24.00 Redondo ·····-··········-···---····101
5.00
5.00
10.00 Marin ................................102
10.00 Mill Valley ·······-···············108
5.00
5.00
25.00 El Centro .......................... 109
5.00
25.00 South Pasadena ..............112
5.00
15.00 Sebastopol .....•..................117
5.00
40.00 Hollywood ........................120
5.00
10.00 Huntington ...................•-127
10.00
5.00 Inglewood ........................131
10.00
10.00 Searchlight ........................ 133
5.00
10.00 Wilmington ......................141
2.50
5.00 Roseville ............................ 146
10.00
5.00
Total ············-·········-··············-$243.75
5.00
COMMANDERIES, K. T.
10.00
10.00
Commandery
No.
Amt.
10.00
12.50
3.75 California ····························-1
5.00
79.46 Sacramento ···············-···-··...2
5.00 Pacific -······················-···········3
5.00
10.00
5.00 Oroville ................................5
2.50
5.00 Nevada .........................•..•.....8
5.00
7.50 Marysville ............................ 7
5.00
5.00 San Jose ·······················-·····10
5.00
10.00 Chico ····························-····-12
Naval ·······--········-····-······-·19
5.00
5.00
Total ......................................$4,008.96 Watsonville ................... ,....22
St. Bernard •.......................23
7.50
Visalia ········--······················-•
12.50
CHAPTERS R. A. M.
San Luis Obispo ................27
2.50
10.00
Amt. Pasadena ·-···························31
No.
Chapter
Mt. Shasta ..........-...............32
10.00
10.00
San Francisco ·····-·····-········! $ 5.00 Ukiah ·············--············-··-·33
5.00
Sonora .................................
5.00 Eureka ................................35
Southern
California
........
37
10.00
Sacramento ·-···-·····-····-·····3
5.00
5.00
Nevada ···················-··---··-6
2.50 San Francisco ....................41
2.75
Grass Valley ·······-············-18
2.50 Santa Cruz ·············-···········44
5.00
Petaluma ............................22
1.25 Palo Alto ............................4'1
10.00
Delta ·······················-······-·'.27
5.00 Alhambra ............................48
10.00
Martinez ···························--31
5.00 Whittier ·····-···········-··--·····51
Los Angeles ........................33
15.00 Auburn ·····-·················-······.52
5.00

550 Seaport ............................
552 Se1;Ilper. Vi:i;ens ..............
558 Pomt Firmm ..................
561 East San Diego
574 S. W. Hackett..................
576 El Cajon Valley ............
578 Progressive ....................
580 Santa Maria ....................
581 Security ..........................
585 Manchester ......................
589 Kauai ................................
590 Compass ..........................
592 Tujunga ..........................
593 All States ........................
595 Alexander Graham Bell
596 Guardian ........................
603 Dimond ............................
608 Granada ..........................
609 Provident ........................
612 Temple City ....................
619 Neptune ..........................
620 Point Loma ....................
621 The Gardens ..................
622 Atwater ..........................
635 Riverside ........................
637 Palisades ..........................
638 Indian Rock ....................
641 James A. Foshay ............
643 Alta Loma ......................
645 A. F. E. Irwin ................
648 Damascus ........................
650 La Brea ............................
661 Malta ................................
662 Henry Knox ....................
665 Kaweah ............................
667 Meridian ···················-·····
668 San Gorgonio ..................
673 Far West..........................
674 Los Cerritos ....................
675 Modesto ..........................
676 Glen Willow ..................
680 Carmel ............................
681 Dos Palos ........................
686 Albany ............................
690 San Carlos ......................

-.a

382

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Commandery

No.

Hollywood ..........................56
San Pedro ............................60
Calvary ................................62
Ladies Auxiliary to Palo
Alto Commandery ........47

Amt.
15.00
5.00
10.00
25.00

Total..........................................$220.25
COUNCILS R. Be S. M.
No.
Council

Sacramento ........................ 1
Gateway ·---·······-.............13
Pasadena _ ..............- .......18
Santa Cruz ___ ...................17
Pomona ···--········-........_ .....21
Hollywood _.......- ..........- ...33

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50

Total ···-············-.....................$25.00

CHAPTERS, O. E. S.
No.
Amt.
Chapter
Jasmine ....·-············-··-·····145 $ 49.30
5.00
Miguelita Circle ..........- ..176
10.00
Santa Clara ............._.......195
10.00
San Rafael .....- .............. _.215
10.00
Mill Valley ···············-······.219
10.00
Jewel ···--····················-····.238
5.00
Ione ·········-············- ········-.283
5.00
Atascadero ........................344
10.00
Siloam ·····-········-······-···-··406
6.00
Melita .......................- .......467
Past Matrons' & Past
10.00.
Patrons' Assn., Oceanside
Past Matrons' Assn.,
10.00
Bakersfield ....................
65.00
Electa Club of Guardian
Gleaners' Club of
15.00
Escondido ......................
5.00
Past Matrons' Assn.........

Santa Maria Chapter No. 552....$15.00
De Molay Mothers' Club of
Hollenbeck ·---··-···--·--···............ 5.00

Total -···- ··············-······-··-····-$225.30
MISCELLANEOUS
Amt.
Santa Barbara Pyramid No. 3,
Sciots - ··--··--···-······-··-·* 50.00
Fraser Circle ····-······-................ 220.00
E. H. Stevenson .......................... 100.00
James and Dorothy Gift .......... 10.00
William C. Fraham .................. 5.00
James A. Robertson ................ 5.00
Mr. & Mrs. Joe McPherson...... 62.73
Kemp & Jessie Dawson .......... 15.00
F. L. Stamey .............................. 50.00
Irma Rhodes .............................. 25.00
Stanley J . Fi.sher (220).............. 25.00
Edith Brininstool ...................... 100.00
Telephone Masonic Club ........ 65.00
Pacific Greyhound Masonic
Club --···········-·····-·············· 92.00
Social Order of Beauceant
Whittier Chapter No. 78........ 10.00
Al Denser .................................... 1.00
E. Searle Wolfe .......................... 7.00
W. E. & Mary Ellis .................... 5.00
Joe Thorne ................................ 66.00
J . E. Vuillot ................................ 4.00
633 Club ...................................... 10.00
Mrs. Malcolm Reeves .............. 2.00
Low Twelve .............;.................. 25.00
Paramount Square Club .......... 25.00
Masonic Calbe Club of LaneWells Co. ................................ 13.23
Union Oil Building Employees'
Welfare Club .......................... 15.00
Mr. & Mrs. Harrison Anderson 10.00
Mr. & Mrs. Stanley J . Fisher.. 50.00
5.00
~ ~· Jo!inson ..............................
hce Rmzeem ............................ 12.00
Milton Thompson ...................... 5.00

Total ···--···..--··········-············-$20.00

Total ......................................$1,089.96'

A. Be A.. S. R.

Amt.

California Lodge of Perfection $12.50
Fresno Lodge of Perfection.... 50.00
Oakland Bodies ..... _................. 25.00
Peninsula Bodies .................-... 20.00
Sacramento Bodies .................. 12.50
Total ·---······---.....................$120.00
DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATIONS
Amt.

84th District -··-·--···-···---···* 25.00
88th District ...._....................... 10.00
93rd District .............................. 8.00
366th District -··-··-----··............ 10.00
608th District .............................. 47.99
628th District .............................. 75.00
Santa Clara Valley (Districts
53, 54 & 124) .........-................. 5.00
Total - ...................................$180.99
ORDER OF JOB'S DAUGHTERS

Amt.
5.00
.$
....
·---·······-·······
Bethel No. 50 ···Bethel No. 58, Lynwood ............ 27.35
Total - - - ..- ..............................$32.SG
ORDER OF DE MOLA.Y
Amt.

383

Donations to the Masonic Home For Children
August 1, 1950 to July 31, 19~1
Alex, Miss Virginia-12 tickets to
Police Show.
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535
- annual supplement to World
Book Encyclopedia for years 1950
and 1951.
Alexander, M.-2 boxes pomegran-

ates.

American Legion, West Covina Post
·No. 790-10 tickets to American
Legion Annual Christmas Remembrance Show.
Ames, Mrs. Dale-records.
Anderson, Mrs. G. J.-prepared food
for "snacks."
Anonymous - 18 cartons assorted
salad dressings, 2 cartons assorted
canned goods, misc. frostings and
fruit drink bases.
Anonymous-Christm as candy canes.
Anonymous--sport coat.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547 and Arcadia
Chapter No. 471, 0. E. S.-jellies,
preserves.
Ashlar Lodge No. 306-books.
Atlas Fireworks Co., Los Angeles-fireworks.
Atwater Lodge No. 622-apples, preserves, jellies, color books, comic
boo~ misc. toys, dictionary.
Azusa J::Susiness Men's Associationcandy canes.
Barstow Assembly No. 81, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls-toys.
Barteld, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. F. canned fruits and preserves.
Baxter, W. A.-home bowling alley,
comic books.
Beal, A. F.-magazines.
Bellflower Assembly No. 35, Order of
the Rainbow for Girls - candy,
chewing gum, comic books.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509large donation candy.
Bermite Powder Co., Saugas, Calif.
-fireworks.
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528--large
supply comic books .
Bilare, Harold C.-carton Christmas
candy.
Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699-8 boxes
candy bars.
Bliss Film Delivery and Pickup
Service - weekly delivery and
pickup service for Home Picture
Show.
Blood, Leonard-set of professional
drums.

Boatright, W. P. - Shrine Circus
tickets.
Bovard, Mrs. R. H.-clothing.
Boyer, Wilfred 0.-t infoil.
Brea Chapter No. 506. 0. E. S.-dolls
and toys.
Brodie, Al-clothing.
Brokaw, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. H. records.
Brooks, Walter S.-case strawberry
jam.
California State Polytechnic College
Associated Students - basketball
game tickets, pass books for Arabian Horse Show; blanket invitation to children to attend athletic
events.
Cardwell, Mrs. May - handmade
quilts.
Cleft, H. L.-30 cases biscuit mix, 29
cases hot roll mix, 30 cases pie
crust mix.
Clipper Fireworks Co., Los Angeles
-fireworks.
Clown Club, The-2 dozen handmade
clown dolls.
Columbia Broadcastin~ System, Inc.
-large supply greetings cards for
scrapbooks.
Commandery No. 9-electrical material for installation of lights on
athletic field.
Corona Lodge No. 324-55 pounds
salted peanuts; 3 boxes individually packaged peanuts; 1 carton
Hershey bars.
Covina Council of International Relations--lecture tickets.
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652 radio and record player.
Curryer, Miss Marilyn - miscellaneous.
Deering, Mrs. E. R.- 20 pair handmade pajamas. 7 shirts.
Denhard, Ida-records.
Denney, Mr. and Mrs. Vaughn- jam,
candy.
Dolly Madison Cakes, Ltd., Los Angeles - large donation Christmas
fruit cakes.
Douglass, Stacy B.-bicycle.
Dunsmuir Pyramid No. 22, A. E. O.
S.-2 Christmas trees.
Eisenberg, Harry (H. & M. Banana
Co., Duarte)-80 pounds bananas;
3 boxes bananas.
Emery, Ed.-100 pounds onions.
Espitallier, Marilyn and Gail-2 pet
ducks.

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Eugle, Mrs. Minnie-5 dolls.
Fahrney, Dr. Fairman W.-50 tickets
to Shrine Circus.
Fallbrook Chapter No. 390, 0. E. S.1 new wool blanket.
Fowler, Mrs. Floyd-clothing, hostess apron, jig-saw puzzles, flower
seed, note paper, canned fruit,
prepared food for snacks.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.2 kegs olives.
Gallaher, H. M. - National Geographic magazines.
Gardenia Lodge No. 372 - assorted
toys.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492 and Garvanza Chapter No. 266, 0. E. S.fruit cake, jams, jellies, canned
food, juices, apples, candy, mincemeat, nuts, vanilla.
Gleaners' Club, Escondido Chapter
No. 154, 0. E. S.-30 tray cloths, 4
ties, 8 pair pajamas, 2 vanity sets,
12 bean bag dolls, jamst jellies,
candy, cookies, tllled stockings, rag
dolls, aprons, pot holders, doilies,
nuts, toys, misc.
Golden Poppy Assembly No. 85,
Order of Rainbow for Girls - 3
handkerchiefs an d h a n d m a d e
sachet to each Junior girl in the
Home.
Gomes, Maurice E. - 65 pounds
Christmas candy.
Goodenough, Gary Lee - comic
books.
Gordonb Mrs. Bury! - pictures for
scrap ooks.
Graft, Mrs. Helen - 18 handmade
handkerchiefs.
Granada Lodge No. 608 - assorted
wrapped Christmas gifts; ice
cream for July 4th celebration.
Griffith, J. C. (New Zealand)-book
and p~ctorial magazine.
Groff, Mrs. Alma - relish, pickles,
jam.
Gunther, H. W.-4 bound volumes
weekly comic papers.
Haulk, Edward - Shrine Circus
tickets.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647 - Lodge
Anniversary cake.
Heinz, John and Dingman, D. F.--6
football game tickets.
Henne!, A. M. - completed scrap
books.
Heym, Mrs. Clara E.-preserves.
Hokanson, Bill - year subscription
Life magazine.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-12 cases
canned peaches.

Hunsaker, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce jams, jellies.
Island Pharmacy, Avalon-toys.
James A Foshay Lodge No. 641 b as e b a II a n d boxing gloves,
marbles, clothing.
Jarvis, Mrs. Lucius-radio, games,
stereoscope with pictures.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145, 0. E. S.85 pounds homemade candy;
cooked potatoes, milk, cream.
Jenson, Mrs. Gladys L.-cards for
scrapbooks.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 5-25
handmade tray cloths for hospital.
Job's Daughters' Mothers' Club,
Bethel No. 8-2 new radios.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 27 Christmas gifts for Intermediate
and Senior Girls.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 50 cookies, candy.
John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 65725 pounds chocolates; 2 autographed baseballs.
Johnson, A. C.-clothing.
Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. Al-antique
organ for Junior Girls' Building.
Johnson, Katherine-records.
Jordan, Robert S.-material for colored "daisy" chains, postcards,
misc.
Kelly Lamp Co., Los Angeles - 2
tickets to Police Show.
Keown, W. D.-radio console.
Knight, Mrs.-avacados.
Lofvendahl, Fred-mis~ellaneous.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327 (by Sea
Shell Supply Co., Long Beach)24 toy doll sets.
Luck, Reynold 0.-books (instruction).
Lynwood Lodge No. 600-candy and
nuts.
McAlister, Mrs. F. W. - furniture,
clothing, books, shoes, magazines.
McCurdy, Herbert-new radio for
Signal Lodge Room.
McKinley, Clyde W. - fruit juices,
jams, miscellaneous.
McLean, Mrs. Grace-oil painting.
McMannus, Mr. and Mrs. H. George
-clothing.
McRae, William - Shrine Circus
tickets.
Mahler, Mrs. Anna-toys, children's
books, Victrola.
Malta Lodge No. 661-jellies, preserves, canned fruit.
Marquardt, Melvin H.-2 suits clothing.

Martin, William P.-squash.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Beefsteak and Breakfast
Committee of Monrovia - tomatoes, onions, potatoes, rolls, ice
cream.
Masonic Home for the Aged, Decoto
-1,050 pounds dried apricots.
Menasco Masonic Club-fruit juices,
canned fruit, spaghetti.
Metropolitan Lodge No. 646-Christmas toys, 12 sweaters, 8 sweater
sets for gifts.
Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Fred L.-electric heating pad.
Mitchel, Mrs. Ellen F .-records and
machine.
Mitchell, J. H.-1 gal. thread cutting
oil, 1 pint penetrating oil.
M o n r o v i a Masonic Bodies - ice
cream, punch, jams, jellies, candy
bars, canned fruit, peanut butter.
Moore, Mr. and Mrs. Byron A-salt
water taffy.
Morrison, Mr.-Shrine Circus tickets.
Morrison, C. A-clothing.
Moss, Mrs. D. L.-clothing.
Nathan, Mr. and Mrs. B.-model airplane kit.
~eilsonJ._Paul J.-30 pounds raisins.
North Hollywood Lodge No. 542candy, books, puzzles, crayon
books, crayons, miscellaneous.
Nottingham, M. C.-credit on disposal service $66.00.
Noyes, S. E.-100 pounds hazel nuts.
Onaleda Club, Faith Chapter No. 514,
0. E. S.-jams, p:ceserves.
Optimist Home for Boys, Los Angeles-3 cases soup.
Order of the Golden Slipper, M. H.
C., Chapters Aleph and Beth toys, games, soap, books, doll
houses; 9 handmade dresser scarfs;
9 boxes note paper; 8 handmade
slips for Junior Girls; 12 place
mats for Junior Girls' building.
Palestine Chapter No. 210, 0 . E. S.clothing, jams, jellies.
Palmer, Mr. and Mrs. J. B.-jams,
jellies, canned food, fruits.
Pat-A-Cake Bakery, Covina-bakery
goods.
·
Pasadena Assembly No. 107, Order
of the Rainbow for Girls-misc.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-jarns, jellies, comic books.
Past Matrons and Patrons Association of Coachella Valley Chapter
No. 360, 0. E. S. - 2 flats fresh
dates.
Patterson, John H. - radio phonocord; album of records.

385

Pearson, M. (Standard Cabinet Work,
Los Angeles)-supply of plywood.
Pensick & Gordon - sports equipment, metal craft set, games.
Peters, Carl F. - 20 cartons candy
bars, 28 cartons malted milk, 15
cases wheat meal and samples, 4
cartons Post Toasties.
Petger, Sloan-miscellaneous.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-2 cartons
Christmas candy.
Potashnick, Conrad-misc. clothing.
Prentice, Miss Valora-misc.
Ramona Lodge No. 457 - sports
equipment, candy bars, chewing
gum, miscellaneous.
Redondo Assembly No. 661 Order of
the Rainbow for Girls-rresh fruit,
jams, jellies, canned fruit.
·
Rockridge Lodge No. 468-3 tennis
rackets, 2 braces.
Rosemead Assembly L. T., Order of
the Rainbow for Girls-pen and
pencil set.
Ross, D. Gordon-candy.
Salat, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F.-set
Compton's Encyclopedia.
Sampson Electric Co., Covina-refrigerator for camp.
Sandusky, J.-magazines.
San Gabriel Chapter No. 407, 0 . E. S.
-popcorn balls, candy, oranges,
balloons.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546-scrapbooks and puzzles.
Schrey, Mrs. Irving-piano.
Schuyler, Mr. and Mrs. Guy - 2
"magnifiers" for T. V.
Selwyn, Clarence M.-xylophone.
Shaffer, J. C.-clothing.
Sheriff's Office, Los Angeles County
--deer carcass.
Shipman, Mrs. Elizabeth-10 children's story books.
Short, Miss Lydia-greeting cards.
Showalter, Mrs. C. E.-jams and preserves.
Sigel, Ted--drug and cosmetic supplies.
Signal Lodge No. 543 - furnishings
for Signal Lodge Room-4 rugs,
2 blankets, 2 bedspreads, 1 pair
drapes.
Sjoberg, Mr. and Mrs. J. G.-Hallowe'en whistles.
Sleeth, Carl-clothing, shoes, miscellaneous.
Smart & Final Co. - 3/4 case 2 oz.
pkgs. grapenuts.
Smith, Floyd H.-gift wrappings, 4
picture dolls, 2 pair cords.
Smith, Mrs. Kate-handmade quilts.

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Social Order of the Beauceant\ San Thomsen, E.-year's subscription to
Reader's Digest.
Diego Assembly No. 67-7 oathrobes, 24 tray cloths, handmade for Tucker Studio, Covina-camera assembly kit.
Home hospital.
Social Order of the Beauceant, Whit- Tuska, L. 0.-box greeting cards.
tier Assembly No. 78-dress, dolls, Vallee de France Lodge No. 329French pastry.
dresser scarfs, tray cloths for
Valley For.ge Lodge No. 587-candy,
Home hospital.
toys.
South Park Lodge No. 563-candy Van
Horn, Mr. and Mrs. H. S.-toya
bars, hard candy, chewing gum,
and
books.
preserves, ice cream.
Vasarhely, Charles-magazines.
Southern California Edison Co. Walker, Walter S.-jams, jellies.
telephone poles for installation of Ward, Clarence R.-15 gallons honey.
lighting equipment on athletic Westchester Assembly No. 121, Order
field.
of the Rainbow for Girls-phonoSouthern California Lodge No. 278graph records, portable phonocandy, chewing gum.
graph.
Southern Pacific Masonic Square and Westeners Masonic Club, The-100
pounds jams, jellies; boat, oars, etc.
Compass Club of Los Angeles Bible, books, candy, toys, plants, Whilden, Capt. W. R. - Geographic
miscellaneous.
magazines.
Star Sunshine Club, Burbank Chap- White, R. W.-model airplane and
ter No. 352, 0. E. S.-jams, jellies,
airplane materials.
7 new radios, 20 handmade dresser Wilcox, Miss Harriet-9
dresses.
scarfs, 12 handmade tray cloths.
Willard
Snyder
Produce
Co.-box
of
Sternberg, Paul - completed scrapapples.
book.
Wimodausis Club, Bakersfield - 49
Stevens, Mr. and Mrs. Fred H. handmade hostess and work apcandy, chewing gum.
rons.
Sturgeon, L. F. - Louis Allis MesWolf, P. J.-puzzles.
senger magazines.
Youtz, J. Ellsworth (Nursery)-caSturm, Julius-clothing.
mellia plants and other nursery
Thimgan, Miss Kate M.-6 completed
stock.
scrapbooks.
Thompson's Products Inc. "Old Zados Laboratories - Zados Mouth
Wash.
Gu~d"-candy.

December 15, 1950: Carmelita
March 17, 1951: The San BernarLodge No. 599 Annual Christmas dino Santa Fe Masonic Club was
Party held at the Home.
host to the boys and girls of the
December 16, 1950: Hollywood Home at the National Orange Show
Lodge No. 355 Christmas Party held in San Bernardino.
given at the Masonic Temple, HollyMay 13, 1951: Through the courwood.
tesy of ~iss Virginia Alex, '43, our
December 17, 1950: Junior Girls' Intermediate Boys and their houseChristmas Story Hour, by Mrs. Ruby parent witnessed the Police VaudeStuart.
ville Show in Los Angeles.
December 18, 1950: Dormitory
May 20, 1951: Bethel No. 112, Order
C~istmas rarties given by Junior
of Jobs' Daughters, presented a proGirls, Junior Boys, Intermediate gram of entertainment for the chilBoys and Senior Boys.
dren at the Home.
D~cember 2~,
1~50: Dormitory
June 20, 1951: Children of the
ChrlStmas Parties given by Senior Home attended Al Malaikah Shrine's
and Intermediate Girls.
Tenth Annual Shrine Circus through
December 21, 1950: Masonic Home the courtesy of Messrs. Boatright
"
Christmas Party. The southern mem- McRae, Haulk, and Morrison.
bers of the Board of Trustees and
June 30, 1951: Mammoth Firetheir families and Mr. and Mrs. John works Display on Masonic Home
M. Downen were our special guests. Athletic Field through the courtesy
December 24, 1950: Christmas of friends in the various Bureaus of
Fire Prevention.
Party at the home of Mr. and Mrs
Henry for children and staff.
·
July 1, 1951: Senior and IntermeDecember 30, 1950: New Year's diate Girls, with Mr. Henry, began a
Party given by Masonic Home Hos- three thousand mile t our of the
pital Staff to children and staff mem- northern part of California.
bers.
July 3, 1951: The Intermediate
February 2, 3, 4, 1951: The Junior Boys, accompanied by their houseBoys and Girls, accompanied by their mother and recreational group workhouseparents and Mr. and Mrs er, enjoyed a picnic at Huntington
Henry, enjoyed the first snow trip Beach.
of the year.
•
July 6, 1951: The Junior Boys enFebruary 9, 10, 11, 1951: The sec- joyed a picnic at Huntington Beach
ond snow trip went to the Senior and with Mrs. Henry and their houseIntermediate Girls, who were ac- mother.
companied by their houseparents and
.July 10, 1951: Intermediate Boys,
Mr. and Mrs. Henry.
with their housemother, picnicked at
February 14, 1951: Saint Valen- Berkshire Park, Pasadena.
tine's Party for children and staff of
July 11, 1951: Senior Boys and
the Home.
housefather to Seal Beach for midFebruary 16, 17, ' 18, 1951: Mr. night fishing expedition.
Henry, with the Senior and IntermeJuly 12, 1951: Senior Boys to Seal
diate Boys and the boys' housepar- Beach for swimming and fishing.
ents, spent a week-end in the snow.
July 13, 1951: Junior Boys, with
!ebruary 22, 1951: Senior Boys, their housemother, picnicked and
with ~- Henry ~d Mr. Sirk, spent played ball game at San Dimas Park.
Washington's Birthday fishing at
July 17, 1951: Picnic with swimNewport Beach Hal"bor.
ming sports at Huntington Beach for
February 25, 1951: At the Wright- the Intermediate Boys, accompanied
wood home of Mr. and Mrs. Henry a by their houseparent.
"snow party" was given for the
July 20, 1951: Junior Boys with
Senior Girls and their housemother. their housemother spent the day
at
March 4, 1951: The Intermediate Riverside Park.
Boys and Mr. Knauer were guests at
July 22, 1951: Senior and Intermea "snow party" given by Mr. and diate Boys leave with Mr. Henry on
Mrs. Henry at their home in Wright- three thousand mile camping trip
wood.
through northern California.

Entertainment
August 20, 1950: Children and staff
of the Masonic Home were special
guests of Huntington Beach Lodge
No. 380 at their annual picnic and
barbecue at Lake Park, Huntington
Beach.
September 28, 1950: Patricia
Achenbach, David Thompson and
Thomas Trebell, winners in The
Westerners Masonic Club Juvenile
Scholastic Contest were dinner
guests of The Westeners. Mrs. Irene
Bayes accompanied the children.
October 6, 1950: "Magic Wonder
Show'' at the Home. Presented by
members of the Society of American
Magicians and sponsored by Beverly
Hills Lodge No. 528. Members of
John Marshall Lodge No. .636 attended the show as guests of Beverly
Hills Lodge.

October 15, 1950: The Senior, Intermediate and Junior Girls, with
their housemothers, were picnic
guests of Bethel No. 157, Order of
Job's Daughters. The picnic was
held at the Barbecue Area on the
Home grounds.
October 30, 1950: Hallowe'en Party
at the Home for children and staff.
November 5, 1950: Mr. John Heinz
and Mr. D. F. Dingman were hosts to
a group of Intermediate Boys at a
Ram's football game, followed by
dinner before returning to the Home.
December 14, 1950: Twenty-eighth
Annual Christmas Party given for
the children of the Home by Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner
Lodge No. 607, at the Monrovia Masonic Temple.

387

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

HOMES ST A TISTICS

CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL FUNDS

NUMBER OF RESIDENTS AS OF JULY 31, 1951

SCHOLARSHIP FUND

Deco to Home:

Men

Women Total

Residents, August 1, 1950.................................. 118
Admitted ............................................................ 25
Died and Withdrawn ........................................ 27
Residents, July 31, 1951 .................................... 116

176
22
26
172

294
47
53
288

Covina Home:
Boys
Residents, August 1, 1950.................................. 37
Admitted ............................................................
8
Graduated and Withdrawn.............................. 11
Residents, July 31, 1951 .................................... 34

Girls
20
7
2
25

Total
57
15
13
59

PER CAPITA COST
Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal
YearEndingJuly31, 1951
Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance .......................................................... $282.697.19
Average number ·of residents ............................................
291
Average operating cost per month .................................... 23,558.11
Average cost per day ..........................................................
774,51
Average cost per resident per year....................................
971.47
Average cost per resident per month ................................
80.95
Average cost per resident per day ....................................
2.66
Average number of employees ..........................................
90
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance ··············································-··········$135,446.55
Average number of residents .......................•....................
60
Average operating costs per month .................................. 11,287.21
Average cost per day ..........................................................
371.10
Average cost per child per year..........................................
2,257.H
Average cost per child per month ......................................
188.12
Average cost per child per day ..........................................
6.1 9
Average number of employees ..........................................
31

389

Superior Sacramento Valley DeMolay........- ...._.:..............._ ...........$37.00
BEVERLY MANAGEMENT FUND

Frederick M. MacMurray ············································-····-·--·.$ 3,000.00
COVINA SPECIAL FUND

548th Masonic District ··························-·······················•··-····..$ 400.00
The Westerners .......................................................................... 1,500.00
H. M. De Mars ............................................................................
10.00
Estate of Giles E. Stevens ........................................................
100.00
"
" Charles P. Elwert ...................................................... 5,000.00
" Ruth W. Smith .......................................................... 5.867.82
" Carl H. Whipple ...................................................... 1,000.00
" Harriett J. Rowell ......................................................
500.00
" James A. Grunow......................................................
341 .38
" Charles Stainsby ........................................................ 1,000.00
" Madison T. Owens .................................................. 10,864.43
" Anna S. Wyckoff......................................................
125.00
" Alice M. Weinrich.................................................... 5,000.00
" David D. Osterheld .................................................. 3,000.00
DECOTO SPECIAL FUND

Estate of Hai;riet J. Rowell ········-············································$ 500.00
"
" Frederick Long .......................................................... 1,000.22
" Giles E. Stevens ..................................................... .
100.00
" Anna S. Wyckoff ..................................................... .
125.00
" Frank X. Mettman ................................................... . 16.522.58
" George B. May ....................................................... . 4,944.30
" Barnardo McLaughlin ............................................ 1,552.37
" Harry R. Baker ........................................................
346.70
BUILDING FUND

Estate of John and Esther Cocking ........................................$22.119.28
"
" Julius H. Martin........................................................ 3,490.06
" Hazel Holden ............................................................
390.50
" Theresa Johnson ......................................................
994.43
'.' John Tonningsen ...................................................... 6,386.91
" Charles A. Root ........................................................
250.00
" M. K. Marshall ........................................................
687.93
750.00
" Warren G. Bailey ........... ~........................................
"
" Bella M. Diehl .......................................................... 14,261.82
" Alfred E. Baldwin .................................................... 10 868.45
"
" Isabella M. Arnott .................................................... 4:287.50

390

No.
1
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91
93

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL RETURNS-1951
Grand
Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Lodge
Lodge
Homes Contribution Contrib.
$ 628.10 $ 531.00 $ 400.00 $ 14.00
California ·····················-···
176.60
146.00
150.00
6.00
Western Star ·······-···········
939.90
900.00
Tehama ··---···········-·········
759.00
35.00
Benicia ............................ ..............
274.60
216.00
375.00
14.00
Tuolumne ........................
282.00
240.00
150.00
6.00
Corinthian ........................
512.20
412.00
350.00
14.00
325.00
634.70
527.00
San Jose ............................
13.00
475.00
592.40
484.00
18.00
Yount ...........................................................
197.40
164.00
125.00
5.00
Nevada ·······-··················-·
241.30
193.00
225.00
Temple .................................................
8.00
400.30
323.00
375.00
Eureka .............................................
15.00
146.50
125.00
La Parfaite Union ..........
115.00
5.00
. 64.80
125.00
48.00
Mountain Shade ..............
5.00
1,200.00
San Joaquin - ..................
954.80
46.00
758.00
975.00
942.10
771.00
37.00
Washington ·-···················
275.00
546.80
11.00
468.00
Hawaiian ............ _........... ..............
837.40
16.00
714.00
400.00
Occidental ............_.........................
300.00
371.20
10.00
312.00
Madison ·············-····-····-··
25.00
196.00
222.60
1.00
Mariposa ·············-···········
75.00
3.00
56.00
66.60
Georgetown ...................................
250.00
308.00
7.00
250.00
El Dorado ..........................
8.00
127.00
200.00
155.70
Trinity ·····················-·······
20.00
525.00
640.00
773.00
Golden Gate ···-······-···-··
10.00
108.00
250.00
140.80
Gold Hill ..........................
150.00
6.00
75.00
Ophir ................ _...........................
99.50
32.00
850.00
962.00
1,153.20
San Diego ........................
6.00
150.00
240.00
286.00
Howard ·············-·············
500.00
18.00
483.00
595.30
Santa Cruz ..........·-·····-····
25.00
625.00
725.00
865.50
Sacramento ·'··...-······-·······
20.00
376.00
500.00
Martinez ....................................
462.60
28.00
750.00
Los Angeles ......................
735.00
890.50
6.00
200.00
85.00
113.50
Hiram·······-·······················
11.00
275.00
Mount Moriah .............................
408.00
478.80
12.00
174.00
300.00
219.40
Crescent ···················-·······
Texas ..................................................
50.00
56.00
3.00
75.00
102.00
121.20
Forbestown ·-·······--·······
illinoistown ......................
3.00
75.00
92.00
112.20
550.00 .
Suisun ................................
20.00
210.00
276.00
Volcano ................................................
6.00
150.00
62.00
86.20
Santa Rosa ........................
23.00
600.00
594.00
719.40
Union ............-......._.............................
31.00
775.00
707.00
871.70
2.00
50.00
63.00
75.30
Gravel Range ···············-·
8.00
200.00
Plumas ......................_...........................
204.00
248.40
24.00
600.00
1,027.00
1,198.70
Live Oak ..........·--···········
19.00
475.00
213.00
297.30
Natoma -······-··········-·······
Amador ..............................................
4.00
100.00
79.00
96.90
Forest ................................
29.00
31.90
Morning Star ......................_....
27.00
675.00
624.00
768.40
Enterprise ......... ............................
22.00
550.00
308.00
403.80
Bear Mountain ................
1.00
25.00
73.00
83.30
Calaveras ..........................
5.00
125.00
115.00
140.50
Humboldt .....................................
36.00
'440.00
925.00
573.00
1.00
25.00
88.00
99.80
Ione·········-·························
2.00
50.00
86.00
100.60
Yolo·············-····.····-·········
6.00
175.00
229.00
Vesper ..................----···········
267.90
55.00
1,375.00
Naval ................................................
1,135.00
1,404.50
Rose's Bar ........................
34.00
37.40
1.00
25.00
59.00
70.90
North Star-··········-·········
1.00
25.00
115.00
132.50
St. Helena ·-··········-···-·-

_

-

No.

Lodge

95 Henry Clay ·················-···
98 Homitos ·-··-··········--····-·
99 Yosemite ·-·-·······-·····-·····
101 Clay ·-····-···········-·········103 Oroville ···-··-·····-····-··-·
104 Lexington ·-········--··..··-···
106 Arcata ·-····-·········-············
110 Pajaro ·--··-··-···--·
111 Chico -·-··--··-··--··112 Summit --·-··-··-······-···
113 Eden
__....______________
117 Concord
120 Fidelity ···-······-·-··-··-··
122 Alamo ·······-··-·····-··--·····
123 Sotoyome ·-··-····-··--··-·
124 Table Mountain ·-··-···-·
126 Lafayette ............_.......... ...-.. ....
127 Hermann --················-···--·
128 Visalia ·····--·····--··············
129 Nicolaus ..................... .... ...-.....
131 Woodbridge ·············-·······
132 Sincerity ..........................
134 Vacaville ..............................______
135 Valley - ···············-······-·····
136 Pacific ·······-··········-··-··-···
139 Crockett ·-··········-·············
140 Curtis ·-···-··········-·-··-·····141 Grafton --···-··--····-·······
143 Franklin ·--········-··:·····-·144 Oriental ·-·······-····---·-··-···
145 Vitruvius .........................................
146 Abell ...........................---····---·-··
147 . Eel River -··-·---•
149 Lassen ·-····-·············
.. -·····
150 Molino ·-···-··-·--··············
156 Woodland ·····-·················
161 Keystone ..........................................
164 Harmony ............................................
166 Excelsior ..........................................
167 Alameda .......................................
168 Ri;d"."ood City ·····-··-······
169 MISS1on ·····-····-····--···-···
173 Elk Grove ·-··--····-·--···
174 Drytown ·······-··-·············
175 Antioch ·················--·······178 Phoenix ·-··-··-··············
179 Mendocino -··--···············
180 Petaluma
181 Russian Ri:;er~::::::::::::::
182 Arbuckle ·-····--··-····-·····
183 Clear Lake ·····-····-··-·····
184 Sierra Valley ·······-··-·······
185 Claiborne ·······-··········-·····
186 Evening Star ·-··-···········
187 Keith ·-··-····--···-··············
188 Oakland
190 Northern 1·.igb-C:::::::::-~:
191 Marin ·-··-··-······-··--·······
192 Santa Barbara ·-·············
193 Ferndale -·-····--···-···-

--------···-···-··---- --

--

Grand
Lodge
98.20
123.00
546.60
98.80
416.60
710.70
391.50
473.90
573.10
61.40
508.00
419.80
649.20
509.40
221.20
.215.30
274.80
246.60
673.20
120.60 .
206.10
108.20
267.70
117.20
708.50
695.70
80.00
137.90
176.80
424.50
141.40
346.80
276.00
252.50
188.80
337.50
35.80
30.10
567.50
208.00
685.10
823.60
151.70
54.30
425.80
774.50
142.20
366.00
146.40
97.10
108.40
46.00
77.10
67.30
201.60
1,120.50
94.10
633.10
399.40
117.80

391

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
4.00
82.00
100.00
100.00
2.00
75.00
17.00
446.00
450.00
2.00
88.00
50.00
13.00
336.00
350.00
537.00
43.00
1,175.00
275.00
850.00
33.00
369.00
400.00
16.00
451.00
27.00
725.00
44.00
125.00
5.00
400.00
875.00
31.00
348.00
325.00
13.00
552.00
350.00
14.00
394.00
775.00
28.00
182.00
175.00
7.00
173.00
275.00
9.00
218.00
300.00
12.00
206.00
175.00
7.00
552.00
625.00
22.00
106.00
171.00
175.00
7.00
92.00
75.00
3.00
207.00
400.00
16.00
92.00
150.00
6.00
595.00
425.00
17.00
597.00
350.00
13.00
70.00
25.00
1.00
109.00
5.00
125.00
138.00
250.00
9.00
375.00
100.00
4.00
124.00
50.00
1.00
278.00
425.00
17.00
230.00
175.00
7.00
215.00
75.00
3.00
158.00
100.00
4.00
275.00
250.00
10.00
28.00
25.00
1.00
21.00
50.00
2.00
485.00
250.00
12.00
170.00
125.00
5.00
551.00
750.00
30.00
696.00
500.00
17.00
25.00
137.00
1.00
43.00
75.00
3.00
725.00
29.00
318.00
645.00
675.00
21.00
122.00
50.00
2.00
330.00
25.00
114.00
175.00
7.00
81.00
100.00
4.00
74.00
175.00
7.00
40.00
61.00
100.00
4.00
53.00
75.00
3.00
176.00
75.00
3.00
650.00
945.00
24.00
81.00
25.00
1.00
450.00
531.00
16.00
· 10.00
334.00
275.00
98.00
50.00
2.00

392
No.
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261
262
264

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge

Mountain View ..............
Buckeye ···········-···············
San Simeon ......................
Wihnington ......................
Hartley·······- ·····················
Truckee ............................
Silveyville ........................
Pentalpha ........................
Confidence ·······-···············
Salinas ..............................
Olivet ·······-·······················
Stanislaus ........................
Anaheim ..........................
Rio Vista ·············-···········
King David's ·············-·····
Friendship ........................
San Benito ........................
S. San Francisco..............
San Buenaventura ..........
Oak Grove ........................
Doric ·-··- -·························
Monterey ·- ·······················
Mosaic ··················-··········
Speranza Italiana ..........
Downey ............................
Inyo -·································
Roseville ..........................
Bakersfield ......................
Brooklyn ..........................
San Mateo ........................
Athens ..............................
Solano ................................
North Butte ......................
Covelo ..............................
Janesville ........................
Calistoga ..........................
Hope ·-··-- ····-···················
Surprise Valley ..............
Hills Ferry ........................
Guadalupe ........................
Colusa ................................
Santa Ana ·······- ···············
Magnolia ·- ·······················
Eucalyptus ........................
Alcatraz ............................
Laurel ···········-···················
Pomona ···- ······- ··-···-······
Fresno ···················-···········
Alturas ···-··-·····················
Adin ·························-·······
Landmark ·············-·········
Reading ······-·····-·············
Welcome ············-···········
Lodi ·-···-············:·-···········
Penrhyn ·-·························
Evergreen ........................
King Solomon's ..............
Tuscan •.............................
Lompoc ···················-·······
Hesperian --·····················

Grand
Lodge
413.90
150.50
132.20
712.90
285.80
137.20
177.70
618.80
54.50
680.40
134.80
720.10
532.40
181.90
489.40
842.10
196.90
299.00
460.70
744.00
566.10
303.20
224.10
348.40
683.90
200.50
433.20
958.10
720.20
606.00
190.10
648.20
244.30
73.30
200.60
137.20
143.50
87.90
176.30
211.40
193.70
682.40
473.10
554.50
753.90
273.00
482.40
870.30
202.70
121.80
147.50
257.60
256.00
441.30
179.50
746.30
567.10
117.80
230.30
422.20

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
329.00
400.00
16.00
135.00
25.00
1.00
112.00
100.00
3.00
559.00
850.00
32.00
238.00
250.00
10.00
102.00
225.00
9.00
147.00
150.00
6.00
548.00
100.00
4.00
45.00
50.00
2.00
504.00
1,025.00
41.00
108.00
175.00
6.00
601.00
550.00
22.00
424.00
625.00
21.00
149.00
150.00
6.00
404.00
400.00
16.00
711.00
550.00
21.00
159.00
200.00
8.00
240.00
275.00
11.00
387.00
300.00
11.00
630.00
425.00
17.00
491.00
150.00
6.00
252.00
200.00
8.00
181.00
225.00
8.00
304.00
100.00
4.00
539.00
950.00
38.00
165.00
175.00
6.00
342.00
475.00
19.00
781.00
775.00
30.00
602.00
350.00
14.00
470.00
900.00
33.00
151.00
150.00
6.00
552.00
500.00
18.00
193.00
250.00
8.00
25.00
63.00
1.00
146.00
325.00
13.00
112.00
150.00
5.00
125.00
50.00
2.00
125.00
69.00
5.00
153.00
50.00
2.00
400.00
154.00
16.00
157.00
200.00
8.00
600.00
574.00
18.00
391.00
300.00
12.00
725.00
435.00
28.00
629.00
525.00
21.00
175.00
230.00
7.00
394.00
425.00
17.00
800.00
683.00
32.00
177.00
50.00
2.00
75.00
98.00
3.00
225.00
115.00
9.00
300.00
206.00
11.00
275.00
200.00
11.00
300.00
373.00
9.00
200.00
145.00
8.00
500.00
623.00
19.00
425.00
481.00
17.00
125.00
88.00
5.00
275.00
183.00
11.00
250.00
9.00
352.00

No.
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329

Lodge

Orland ·····-····-·················
North East···--··--··--·-·
Galt·········-··················-···Durant ..............................
Olive Branch ..................
Snow Mountain ..............
Pasadena ..........................
Anchor ..............................
Arroyo -- ···························
Oakdale ............................
Selma ·········- ·····················
So. California ----·- ·········
Hanford ···········- ······-··--·
Madera ···················- ··-·····
Mount Shasta ·-·············Calayomi - ························
South West ......................
San Miguel ···- ······-·········
Paso Robles ···- ··-·············
Winnedumah ..................
Maxwell ............................
Elsinore ............................
East Gate ........................
Santa Paula ....................
Los Gatos ..........................
Orange Grove ..................
Traver ..............................
Mt. Jackson ......................
Silver Gate ·-···················
Dunsmuir ·················-·····
Liberty ..............................
Redlands ..........................
Ontario ........,..·-··-·······-···
Santa Lucia ......................
Porterville ·-··········-··- ·····
Reedley ·······················--·
Azusa ................................
Ashlar·-·····························
Santa Monica ..................
Monrovia ·······-···············Delano ···················-···-····
Sisson ·-··························-·
Los Banos ........................
Tehachapi ........................
Temescal ·····-···················
Norwalk ·- ·········-····-··- ···
Sanger ·······-················-···
Fallbrook ·-········-····-·Emanuel ............................
Hollenbeck ···--··- ······-···
South Gate ·····- ······- ··-···
Alis al ·-··················-···-···
Alhambra ..........................
Whittier ............................
Corona ..............................
Consuelo ·······-·················
Needles·····················-·······
Long Beach ......................
Redondo·······················-···
Vallee de France ............

Grand
Lodge
182.90
64.00
109.00
616.30
379.00
46.10
626.30
657.00
193.90
221.10
266.60
585.10
240.50
309.50
106.40
73.20
540.50
82.80
313.50
272.30
77.00
176.70
919.00
418.00
376.90
319.70
172.60
151.00
1,457.20
346.60
380.80
495.90
452.50
168.90
563.30
172.20
313.10
353.50
438.90
357.00
267.60
132.10
194.40
234.30
260.70
317.60
386.50
160.80
91.60
1,214.00
770.20
167.40
774.00
840.50
549.80
302.70
418.00
695.30
624.00
145.50

393

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrlb.
3.00
75.00
159.00
150.00
6.00
50.00
200.00
8.00
80.00
10.00
250.00
533.00
18.00
450.00
300.00
41.00
400.00
533.00
12.00
525.00
530.00
19.00
149.00
9.00
300.00
181.00
250.00
10.00
216.00
325.00
12.00
375.00
14.00
491.00
175.00
205.00
6.00
425.00
17.00
255.00
150.00
6.00
84.00
75.00
3.00
62.00
750.00
27.00
415.00
200.00
8.00
58.00
425.00
15.00
245.00
20.00
500.00
193.00
70.00
25.00
1.00
157.00
325.00
13.00
800.00
14.00
375.00
340.00
20.00
550.00
289.00
11.00
275.00
257.00
2.00
50.00
146.00
2.00
75.00
130.00
1,625.00
57.00
1,182.00
6.00
296.00
150.00
13.00
350.00
308.00
13.00
325.00
419.00
16.00
425.00
365.00
1.00
25.00
149.00
19.00
475.00
463.00
1.00
152.00
50.00
250.00
9.00
251.00
17.00
500.00
275.00
200.00
8.00
379.00
14.00
400.00
290.00
4.00
100.00
226.00
50.00
2.00
111.00
175.00
7.00
154.00
200.00
8.00
193.00
6.00
175.00
217.00
600.00
20.00
246.00
13.00
350.00
315.00
225.00
8.00
128.00
4.00
100.00
76.00
26.00
650.00
1,030.00
575.00
21.00
642.00
150.00
6.00
134.00
26.00
650.00
640.00
29.00
850.00
675.00
21.00
575.00
458.00
11.00
350.00
247.00
12.00
350.00
350.00
15.00
425.00
583.00
27.00
725.00
490.00
2.00
50.00
125.00

394
No.
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
894

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Kilauea ···········--·-···-·····
Pacific Grove ·-····-·········
San Pedro ·······-············-·
Alta ·-··-··--··-········-·········
Covina ..............................
West Gate ........................
Fruitvale .........................:
Carquinez ·····-··--····-·····
San Jacinto ·····--··-····-···
Fullerton ···--··--·············
Oxnard ..............................
San Fernando -·-·--Starr King ·-········--·-·····
Brentwood .............•........•.
Palo Alto ····--······--··-·McKinley -····-··-··--·······
San Bernardino ·-··-·······
Sequoia --··-····-········-·
Palestine ·-····-····-··-·Sunset ·-········-··---··-··-Pinole -·····-·--···-··-·····Presidio ·······-··-·············
Hollywood ·-··--··-····-·····
Mill Valley ......................
Buena Park ......................
Golden State ·······-··-··-···
Loyalton ·······-····-······-···
San Francisco ..................
Fort Bragg ........................
Charity ·-·-·--····-·····-···
Berkeley -··-··-···-··-Willits ·············-··-····--···Las Palmas ·-····---··-···
South Pasadena ..............
Unity ·-···--···-··-··-···
Ocean Park -··-···--···Amity ---··-············-··-·
le Progres de L'Oceanie
Gardena ·······--··--··--·
West Los Angeles -···-···
Jewel ·······-···-···-···-·····
Richmond -··-·-········Francis Drake --·--··-·
Artesia -····-··-····-···-··Mizpah ..............................
Fillmore ·-···-··-··-----Huntington Beach ..........
Oceanside ·-··-···-····--·
Highland Park -··-··--···
Orosi ···--··-··---El Centro -····-·----Dinuba ·-···-··----Coalinga -··-··---··-···
Parnassus ·-··-·-·--···
Palos Verdes --···-··Imperial-··---·-··-···
East Belt ······-··--West Lake -···-··--·--···
Balder ·-····-··----··--···
University -··-··--·····

Grand
Lodge
277.30
316.10
566.10
123.70
354.70
1,247.80
1,036.80
231.90
121.10
440.90
500.50
624.60
617.40
157.10
834.60
573.60
847.20
1,276.60
698.00
430.90
186.10
612.60
1,470.40
514.20
255.10
983.00
119.80
380.70
148.00
183.90
770.40
189.50
1,181.90
685.70
753.70
589.00
531.70
838.40
410.60
475.50
217.70
631.00
438.30
214.70
508.30
281.40
382.40
430.00
787.80
161.60
551.30
341.60
469.90
897.90
804.60
139.10
104.90
1,096.40
580.00
709.90

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrlb.
233.00
150.00
6.00
251.00
450.00
15.00
491.00
225.00
9.00
87.00
250.00
10.00
297.00
200.00
8.00
1,018.00
1,350.00
47.00
878.00
550.00
22.00
189.00
250.00
9.00
101.00
75.00
3.00
379.00
200.00
6.00
385.00
26.00
650.00
506.00
525.00
19.00
524.00
325.00
13.00
131.00
125.00
5.00
686.00
925.00
29.00
476.00
450.00
18.00
682.00
975.00
37.00
1,066.00
925.00
34.00
590.00
375.00
15.00
379.00
150.00
6.00
161.00
50.00
2.00
526.00
12.00
300.00
1,174.00
1,575.00
62.00
422.00
550.00
20.00
211.00
250.00
9.00
830.00
21.00
550.00
98.00
100.00
4.00
317.00
325.00
13.00
130.00
2.00
75.00
149.00
175.00
7.00
644.00
23.00
600.00
155.00
175.00
7.00
959.00
1,050.00
42.00
577.00
425.00
13.00
607.00
650.00
25.00
490.00
450.00
17.00
457.00
200.00
8.00
664.00
42.00
1,050.00
316.00
525.00
19.00
395.00
12.00
350.00
187.00
150.00
4.00
540.00
275.00
11.00
650.00
333.00
23.00
350.00
167.00
13.00
225.00
433.00
9.00
200.00
234.00
7.00
314.00
250.00
10.00
330.00
600.00
20.00
875.00
628.00
33.00
125.00
136.00
4.00
32.00
925.00
413.00
286.00
10.00
250.00
19.00
525.00
379.00
729.00
29.00
775.00
10.00
275.00
696.00
121.00
2.00
50.00
2.00
50.00
89.00
27.00
725.00
934.00
15.00
375.00
490.00
12.00
325.00
609.00

No.

Lodge

395 Turlock ............................
396 Apollo ·-····-·······················
397 Rising Light ....................
399 Fraternity ........................
400 Burlingame ......................
401 Bay View ..........................
402 Brawley -·····-········-·········
403 Yerba Buena ....................
404 Glendora ·-··--····-···········
405 Moneta ..............................
406 Burbank ·-··············--·······
407 La Mesa ·-··········-··-····-···
408 Sierra Madre ·-····-····-···
409 Honolulu ·-····-····-···········
410 Charter Rock ..................
411 Perris ·········-············-·······
412 Calex:ico ............................
414 Arlington ..........................
415 Silver Trowel ..................
416 Lindsay ........................:...
417 Clovis ................................
418 Elysian ..............................
419 Upland ..............................
420 Kerman ............................
421 Inglewood ........................
422 Eagle Rock ......................
423 York ..................................
424 Exeter ..............................
425 Holtville ..........................
426 Midway ............................
427 Chino Valley ....................
428 San Dimas ........................
429 Pittsburg ..........................
430 McCloud ..........................
431 Alpha ................................
433 Hammonton ....................
i34 Maricopa ..........................
435 Fairmount ........................
436 Claremont ·····---··-·········
437 Lancaster .........'..............•...
438 Acacia ··-·····-···················
439 Tyrian ···-·························
440 Standard ..........................
441 Coronado ···············-··-··-·
442 Blackmer ··-····-····-·········
443 Schofield ..........................
444 Carpinteria ·········-···········
445 Wilshire ............................
446 La Puente ........................
447 Torrance ···-····--··-··-··-·
448 Mount Diablo ···-··--·······
449 Park ·········-····-··-····-·····450 Van Nuys ···-····-····-·-···
451 Montebello ·········-···········
452 San Pasqual •...................
453 Bethlehem ···············-··-···
454 Crocker ·····-··-············-···
455 Golden West ·····-········-···
457 Ramona ···-··-···················
458 Henry S. Orme ................

Grand
Lodge
464.50
556.30
1,265.70
520.90
781.60
728.70
232.30
1,069.60
160.20
825.80
827.10
605.40
167.00
481.00
425.90
189.60
182.00
403.90
467.00
267.60
549.50
535.20
242.70
140.70
870.50
597.00
410.50
255.10
168.10
604.70
169.40
190.20
385.40
122.20
612.00
79.1
205.40
544.60
137.60
336.60
70.80
220.80
394.40
457.70
1,455.40
291.20
151.90
664.60
189.30
496.90
377.20
577.50
943.80
692.00
605.90
337.80
468.30
667.00
597.60
811.30

395

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrlb.
365.00
24.00
625.00
453.00
18.00
450.00
1,007.00
43.00
1,100.00·
449.00
8.00
225.00
626.00
36.00
950.00
607.00
575.00
20.00
203.00
4.00
100.00
856.00
46.00
1,175.00
142.00
2.00
50.00
718.00
12.00
325.00
651.00
38.00
975.00
484.00
24.00
650.00
140.00
125.00
4.00
380.00
18.00
525.00
359.00
250.00
10.00
146.00
11.00
275.00
160.00
3.00
75.00
349.00
225.00
8.00
425.00
380.00
17.00
300.00
216.00
11.00
415.00
23.00
575.00
300.00
452.00
12.00
197.00
250.00
10.00
107.00
6.00
150.00
925.00
685.00
36.00
490.00
20.00
600.00
450.00
325.00
17.00
8.00
225.00
211.00
141.00
5.00
125.00
20.00
500.00
487.00
150.00
134.00
6.00
5.00
125.00
162.00
22.00
284.00
600.00
4.00
100.00
102.00
18.00
450.00
500.00
2.00
50.00
61.00
5.00
125.00
174.00
7.00
175.00
476.00
50.00
116.00
2.00
20.00
550.00
256.00
2.00
50.00
58.00
175.00
168.00
7.00
7.00
175.00
344.00
500.00
367.00
20.00
47.00
1,275.00
1,194.00
12.00
325.00
242.00
4.00
200.00
119.00
21.00
550.00
546.00
200.00
153.00
8.00
24.00
650.00
389.00
302.00
14.00
375.00
485.00
425.00
16.00
1,725.00
698.00
61.00
550.00
33.00
900.00
479.00
27.00
775.00
298.00
4.00
125.00
393.00
275.00
11.00
12.00
570.00
350.00
476.00
26.00
725.00
21.00
673.00
575.00

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.
Lodge
459 Riverbank ·····-·--···-··--··
460 Mount Oso - ..···········-·······
461 Argonaut .................................
462 Paul Revere ···-···············
463 Morgan Hill ....................
464 Alta Vista ........................
465 Center ------·-·····'"····-········
466 Libertas ...........................................
467 Culver City ····-··-···········
468 Rockridge . ............. ..................
469 Yorba Linda ··················-·
470 Lincoln ····-··-··············-···
471 Delta ................ ..----·-··-···-·
472 Maui ···-········-···---···-- ···
473 Blythe ···--·········"'·············
474 Victory ····-·····- ··- ·············
475 America
..-·-·
476 Coachella ···-------····-···
477 Temblor ·····-···········-·······
478 Thousand Oaks ...................
479 Golden Rule ··················480 Fellowship ···--··-···········
481 Mt. Davidson ..................
482 Clarence F. Smith ..........
483 Bell .......................................
484 Albert Pike ......................
485 Chowchilla .................................
486 Caledonia .................................
487 Vallejo ·····-·······················
488 Patterson ............................._...
489 East Bay ...................................
490 Corcoran ............... .....................
491 Woodstock ........................
492 Garvanza ·········- ···············
493 Atascadero . . ..............................
494 Acorn ·····-··-··········-··········
495 Lebanon ............................
497 Fremont ............................
498 Stockton ························-··
499 Capital City ....................
500 Roosevelt ..........................
501 Westwood ·····-······--·-·····
502 Harbor ···--··········-···········
503 Point ···- ···························
504 Seaside ..............................
505 . Silver Cord ......................
506 Mount Olive ·········-····-···
507 El Segundo ......................
508 Joppa ................................
509 Benjamin Franklin ........
510 Cupertino ..........................___ ,,...
511 Sunnyvale ........................
512 Palms ···--················-·······
513 Cahuenga ...............................
514 Argonne ............................
515 Vermont Square ............
516 Taft ·········-····-···················
517 Mount Vernon ................
.518 La Jolla ............................
519 Euclid ................................

-

·····------------

Grand
Lodge
178.00
·360.10
516.20
727.10
182.80
322.50
656.30
756.90
421.10
567.80
169.40
397.70
555.90
290.10
161.20
375.90
596.00
234.70
169.70
588.50
720.70
397.00
463.10
436.50
767.10
310.60
171.60
615.30
461.90
143.10
469.80
141.90
537.20
365.20
135.90
736.10
466.70
630.70
227.10
604.70
251.20
325.80
699.80
336.50
581.90
549.40
1,154.00
406.90
94.00
419.90
193.20
370.50
509.90
671.20
452.80
634.70
384.40
261.00
325.40
469.60

Muonic $25.00 Homea $1G.W .
Home:i Contribution Contrib.
140.00
200.00
8.00
301.00
150.00
6.00
432.00
300.00
12.00
591.00
700.00
26.00
148.00
175.00
5.00
275.00
50.00
2.00
513.00
725.00
29.00
589.00
1,050.00
41.00
331.00
450.00
16.00
468.00
525.00
20.00
144.00
100.00
4.00
337.00
300.00
12.00
479.00
250.00
10.00
251.00
150.00
6.00
132.00
250.00
6.00
299.00
325.00
12.00
500.00
375.00
14.00
187.00
350.00
12.00
147.00
75.00
3.00
485.00
550.00
18.00
597.00
600.00
23.00
330.00
225.00
9.00
325.00
391.00
13.00
365.00
350.00
14.00
1,200.00
601.00
46.00
256.00
250.00
10.00
146.00
125.00
3.00
483.00
750.00
28.00
389.00
350.00
11.00
111.00
200.00
8.00
398.00
300.00
11.00
119.00
75.00
1.00
402.00
725.00
28.00
302.00
225.00
9.00
109.00
175.00
4.00
591.00
900.00
32.00
225.00
387.00
9.00
507.00
675.00
26.00
191.00
175.00
6.00
467.00
900.00
33.00
202.00
250.00
10.00
268.00
275.00
10.00
558.00
850.00
33.00
255.00
475.00
18.00
499.00
250.00
10.00
464.00
300.00
12.00
990.00
750.00
28.00
319.00
650.00
22.00
25.00
80.00
1.00
349.00
275.00
11.00
162.00
150.00
5.00
315.00
225.00
8.00
429.00
275.00
10.00
775.00
542.00
28.00
225.00
388.00
9.00
527.00
450.00
18.00
550.00
304.00
20.00
220.00
175.00
7.00
264.00
450.00
13.00
19.00
386.00
500.00

_

Lodge
No.
............................._......... .._
Ionic
520
521 Piedmont ·················-·······
522 Sunrise ···-·························
523 BeIInower ·····-·····-···········
524 Catalina Island ................
525 George Washington ......
526 Bay City······- ····················
527 Covenant ..........................
528 Beverly Hills ..................
529 Loyalty ···-··········-···········
530 Sun Garden ......................
531 Alexandria . ..... . . ......................
532 Smyrna ................... . ....................
533 Azure ·····-----·..--···········--534 Forest Hill ........................
535 Alexander Hamilton ......
536 Seal Rock ···············-·········
537 Utopia ..........................................
538 Ascot ..................................
539 Belvedere ...................................
540 Queen Beach ....................
541 Henry Morse Stephens..
542 North Hollywood ..........
543 Signal ................................
544 Glendale .............................. .......
545 Jonathan ...............................
546 San Gabriel ......................
547 Arcadia ····- ·····················
548 Triangle ............................
549 Justice ·····-··············-········
550 Seaport····-·······················
551 Lakeshore .......................................
552 Semper Virens ................
554 Educator ..........................
555 White Pine ......................
556 Fairfax ·· -- ···················
557 Hermosa ..................................
558 Point Firmin ·········-·········
559 Craftsmen .................................
560 Plymouth ..........................
561 East San Diego ................
562 Pyramid ............................
563 South Park ···-·················
564 Foothill -··-··-·················
565 West Adams ....................
566 James A. Garfield····-····
567 Searchlight ......................
568 Park Boulevard ..............
569 Chateau Thierry ............
570 Military Service ..............
571 Francis K. Shattuck ......
572 James Madison ................
573 Hillcrest ............................
574 S. W. Hackett ..................
575 Fort Crook ···············--····
576 El Cajon Valley ..............
577 Sunnyside ........................
578 Progressive ···-················
579 Warren G. Harding ......
580 Santa Maria ···--·-······-

-

Grand
Lodge
1,008.70
342.90
418.00
501.80
174.90
592.30
440.80
398.60
632.40
572.30
662.10
188.00
149.90
296.60
220.80
334.90
244.80
835.40
421.40
257.50
227.10
383.20
900.40
588.30
809.80
242.60
571.80
546.50
308.70
440.30
279.30
324.90
338.20
442.80
112.70
455.00
384.30
423.90
517.50
476.20
861.20
357.80
487.60
886.00
351.10
270.80
546.40
517.20
400.40
419.70
321.70
426.80
103.50
696.70
202.10
345.00
540.20
597.30
663.30
128.20

397

Masonic $25.00 Home:i $1G.W .
Home:i Contribution Contrib.
61.00
777.00
1,675.00
175.00
7.00
289.00
22.00
330.00
550.00
388.00
28.00
775.00
149.00
150.00
5.00
473.00
26.00
675.00
358.00
500.00
20.00
336.00
8.00
250.00
494.00
1,025.00
31.00
453.00
975.00
35.00
531.00
625.00
24.00
160.00
125.00
4.00
109.00
300.00
11.00
246.00
250.00
6.00
178.00
175.00
7.00
249.00
500.00
20.00
198.00
175.00
7.00
694.00
700.00
27.00
344.00
300.00
10.00
215.00
275.00
11.00
191.00
175.00
4.00
125.00
5.00
332.00
1,175.00
704.00
44.00
500.00
20.00
483.00
658.00
875.00
29.00
225.00
9.00
196.00
418.00
1,100.00
41.00
1,350.00
375.00
48.00
375.00
14.00
247.00
425.00
17.00
363.00
233.00
125.00
5.00
269.00
225.00
9.00
262.00
400.00
14.00
368.00
250.00
10.00
97.00
50.00
2.00
625.00
350.00
23.00
650.00
25.00
303.00
359.00
325.00
12.00
45Q.OO
18.00
425.00
575.00
22.00
372.00
27.00
702.00
700.00
400.00
16.00
288.00
14.00
350.00
406.00
1,375.00
51.00
690.00
5.00
150.00
301.00
150.00
6.00
228.00
400.00
13.00
464.00
650.00
22.00
412.00
175.00
7.00
344.00
225.00
9.00
347.00
175.00
7.00
267.00
12.00
325.00
358.00
175.00
6.00
75.00
28.00
557.00
775.00
125.00
4.00
161.00
28.00
750.00
250.00
13.00
462.00
350.00
21.00
525.00
493.00
43.00
1.100.00
493.00
75.00
3.00
112.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

398
No.
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610

611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand
Lodge

Lodge

Security .........................Rialto ·········-···-·. ·-·······-Wasco ................................
Harding ........................... _......
Manchester ·····-···············
Garden Grove ........................
Valley Forge ....................
El Sereno ..........................
Kauai ............................ _... ____ .....
Compass ·····-········--··-·····
Escalon ..............................
Tujunga ...................-.......... -.
All States ..........................
Service ..................- .........
Alexander Graham Bell
Guardian .......................... _.......
Pearl Harbor ....................
Carmelita ...................................
Lynwood ..........................
Grizzly ..............................
Melrose ...........................................
Dimond .......................................
Jubilee .....................................
Glassell Park ..................
Sojourner ................. ............
Granada ................. _______ ..._.
Provident ....................... _.._. _
Elmhurst ···-·········-·········
Canoga ..............................
Temple City ....................
Three Pillars ....................
Larchmont ............. ...............
Hemet ................................
R. E. Dolley ......................
Big Bear ..........................
Southland ........................
Neptune ............................
Pomt Loma ......................
The Gardens ....................
Atwater
Menorah ............................
Fortitude ................---··-········Angeles Mesa ..................
Chula Vista ......................
Lamanda Park ................

-

-

--------------------·····

Truth ................................

-

Fairview ....................... .... --.
Ingleside ·····-···················
Benevolence ···--··-····-···
Normal Heights ..............
Poinsettia ·····-------···········
Victorville ........................
Riverside ..........................
John Marshall ................
Palisades .................................... ...--Indian Rock ....................
Composite ............... ... _____ ........
Veritas ·····-····----··-··-···
James A. Foshay ............
La Cumbre .....- .............

-

_

474.80
204.60
367.80
288.00
440.20
256.30
430.80
528.10
142.90
324.40
149.70
301.60
637.40
881.10
303.30
1,009.00
680.80
393.80
477.80
159.20
277.40
352.20
410.20
477.00
249.30
902.40
532.00
284.00
293.90
444.40
489.90
504.10
189.20
220.10
174.80
384.40
345.70
621.70
556.10
443.80
973.60
239.70
804.50
507.80
303.30
288.50
329.90
237.20
321.00
793.80
718.20
242.60
426.00
353.10
453.80
249.50
463.50
136.90
292.50
294.20

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
19.00
475.00
388.00
17.00
475.00
146.00
17.00
450.00
288.00
9.00
225.00
240.00
14.00
375.00
362.00
11.00
350.00
203.00
11.00
275.00
368.00
35.00
411.00
875.00
1.00
50.00
129.00
13.00
375.00
254.00
3.00
75.00
127.00
11.00
375.00
246.00
16.00
400.00
534.00
30.00
825.00
711.00
7.00
175.00
263.00
43.00
1,125.00
790.00
15.00
400.00
568.00
16.00
450.00
318.00
27.00
700.00
368.00
1.00
25.00
142.00
3.00
100.00
234.00
13.00
325.00
282.00
15.00
475.00
332.00
11.00
275.00
400.00
7.00
200.00
203.00
44.00
1,175.00
714.00
29.00
775.00
410.00
12.00
300.00
230.00
11.00
350.00
229.00
18.00
525.00
354.00
24.00
600.00
389.00
22.00
575.00
401.00
6.00
150.00
152.00
4.00
125.00
191.00
5.00
150.00
148.00
16.00
425.00
304.00
14.00
350.00
267.00
22.00
550.00
497.00
33.00
825.00
421.00
14.00
425.00
368.00
40.00
1,050.00
776.00
7.00
175.00
197.00
35.00
875.00
625.00
32.00
925.00
378.00
11.00
325.00
243.00
7.00
175.00
245.00
11.00
300.00
269.00
14.00
375.00
182.00
9.00
225.00
270.00
37.00
925.00
598.00
27.00
825.00
582.00
13.00
375.00
186.00
9.00
225.00
360.00
12.00
325.00
281.00
7.00
325.00
378.00
6.00
175.00
205.00
30.00
750.00
365.00
3.00
75.00
119.00
11.00
325.00
235.00
10.00
350.00
242.00

No.
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694
695
696
697
698
699
700
701
702
703

Lodge

Alta Loma ..- ..............Lomita
A. F. E.
Metropolitan ....................
Hawthorne ...................... ......
Damascus ..........................
Florence ............................
La Brea ............................
Menlo Park ......................
Crescenta Valley ............
Fontana ............ _............. .........
Jordan .................... ______ ,. __ ,.
Monte Vista ....................
Citro!
John D. Spreckels ..........
Livingston ...._ .................
La Habra ..........................
Baldwin Park ...............Malta . ................................. _... _
Henry Knox ....................
Ojai ....................................
Kaweah ·····-····----···········
Reseda --·-··············-·········
Meridian ·········-········-·-San Gorgonio ..................
John P. Jarman ..............
Greenleaf ..........................
San Clemente ..................
Laguna Beach ...- ...........
Far West ····-··-.. --.........
Los Cerritos ····-··-····..·Modesto ........----··--··-··-···
Willow Glen ....................
Liberal Az1s ....................
Altadena ..........................
Canby's Cross ..................
Carmel ..............................
Dos Palos ...................- .....
Barstow
Redwood Empire ............
Tron a ·······--·--·--··--·
San Marino -··---··---···
Albany ·····-·-··--·-··-Vista ···---··-··-·-·-·····
Oildale -·---·---·----·-····---·
Pohona ... _ ........................
San Carlos ........................
Indian Wells Valley ......
Travelers -----------·············
Palm Springs ..................
San Antonio ....................
Meudell ..............................
Crossroads ....................................
St. Elmo ............................
Wm. D. Stephens..............
Bixby Knolls ...·-··-·-···
Ponderosa .....................Santa Ynez Valley ........
Rosemead .. _. ______.. _
Westchester

fi.wiil:=:::::::::
-

- __

·-------·--·-·---

...

---·--------------·······

-----·-··-··

Grand
Lodge
424.50
287.70
346.10
169.00
518.70
676.00
571.10
317.70
288.10
504.20
350.20
448.00
686.40
199.00
762.10
203.70
217.20
212.30
248.50
490.80
133.20
141.00
376.20
617.70
261.60
307.50
674.10
93.40
217.20
438.30
404.60
562.40
363.60
380.10
553.30
170.00
209.40
134.80
345.60
107.00
146.70
360.90
243.10
244.60
215.80
65.70
303.20
351.60
216.00
160.10
189.80
154.30
239.70
103.80
88.80
257.30
260.70
74.20
111.00
224.80

399

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
8.00
200.00
355.00
250.00
10.00
237.00
13.00
350.00
271.00
10.00
275.00
130.00
37.00
975.00
367.00
800.00
30.00
530.00
22.00
575.00
461.00
11.00
275.00
257.00
15.00
400.00
221.00
31.00
850.00
382.00
18.00
475.00
272.00
19.00
525.00
350.00
600.00
24.00
554.00
7.00
175.00
160.00
800.00
30.00
611.00
18.00
450.00
147.00
11.00
300.00
172.00
14.00
375.00
153.00
150.00
6.00
215.00
275.00
11.00
418.00
7.00
175.00
102.00
175.00
7.00
110.00
800.00
30.00
272.00
32.00
1,075.00
477.00
8.00
250.00
216.00
9.00
250.00
245.00
69.00
1,900.00
471.00
4.00
150.00
74.00
6.00
175.00
182.00
31.00
800.00
323.00
28.00
725.00
306.00
23.00
575.00
434.00
14.00
425.00
286.00
22.00
600.00
291.00
21.00
650.00
433.00
8.00
200.00
130.00
9.00
325.00
164.00
2.00
75.00
108.00
24.00
600.00
256.00
9.00
225.00
80.00
1.00
25.00
127.00
9.00
225.00
299.00
12.00
325.00
181.00
3.00
175.00
216.00
14.00
350.00
158.00
1.00
25.00
57.00
25.00
650.00
212.00
34.00
925.00
236.00
21.00
575.00
140.00
9.00
250.00
121.00
30.00
800.00
108.00
11.00
275.00
103.00
28.00
775.00
157.00
12.00
300.00
68.00
10.00
250.00
58.00
25.00
700.00
153.00
38.00
1,000.00
127.00
8.00
250.00
52.00
11.00
300.00
70.00
40.00
1,075.00
118.00

400

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.
Lodge
704 Orinda ..............................
705 El Cerrito ........................
706 Hunters Point Naval -··
707 Lake Tahoe ·······-··-·······
708 Seafaring ···-··-··-······-···
709 Lorenzo ···················-·······
710 Anacapa..............................
711 Rim of the World..............
U.D. Los Altos..·-························
U.D. Castro Valley.....................
U.D. Blue Lakes.........................
U.D. Magnolia Park.................. .

Grand
Lodge
118.00
108.50
147.10
52.00
167.40
187.20
123.30
94.70
68.10
66.00
47.30

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
425.00
70.00
13.00
300.00
11.00
65.00
20.00
575.00
81.00
200.00
30.00
7.00
16.00
500.00
114.00
1,100.00
82.00
41.00
30.00
1,150.00
53.00
57.00
14.00
475.00
10.00
475.00
41.00
11.00
450.00
50.00
250.00
43.00
275.00

Total.·-··-·-··-··-······-··· 246,563.20 199,962.00 243,375.00

9,031.00

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GENERAL

401

APPENDIX
Page

Standing Committees ............................................................................ 402
Special Committees ..................................................:........................... 405
Constitutional Boards ........................................................................•. 408
Registration and Mileage Payments .................................................... 410
List of Constituent Lodges .................................................................. 444
Extinct Lodges ...................................................................................... 455
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization ............................ 459
List of Inspectors .................................................................................. 465
Foreign Grand Lodges ................•......................................................... 468
Alphabetical List of Lodges .................................................................. 473
:Report of Committee on Correspondence ............................................ 480

402

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

i03

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CREDENTIAfS

STANDIN G

COMMITT EES

JURISPRUDENCE
John Stewart Ross (3&t)------ -··-----101 7 El Paao Dr., Los Angeles 42
George L. Jones (23) ..·-·····-···············---·-···-···-·······-·········-··················Nevada City
Earl Warren (349).·--··-···-- ··--····-···--·-·-- ·-·---State Capitol, Sacramento 14
John W. Shenk (367) ..........................................................State Building, San Francisco 2
Oscar Lawler (290)----- --···---800 Standard Oil Bldg .. Los Angeles 15

k.'ili!·
~~~=n(6fJti---·-·---···-=:=====--=~~-~----~:.~~~:-~We~~~:!1A!
Laurence Edw. Daytm
1832 Magellan Drive, Oakland
11
(M. No. 61)
Wakefield Taylor---- ---··-···---· -··---1270 Escobar St.. Martinez
(Sr. W. No. 41)

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Wm. Rhodes Hervey (202)...:.--·---- ·--·-···----458 S. Spring St.. Los Angeles 13
Will H. Fischer (445) ................................................123 S. Mariposa Ave.. Los Angeles 4
Wm. B. Ogden (355) ......................................725 Bank of America Bldg.. Los Angeles 14
Rollie M. Miller (352)------- ---·--···..Aaso dated Real~ Bldg.. Los Angeles
Leslie E. Wood (609) ....................................................- ..........611 "J ' St.. Sacramento 14
Chester H. Warlow (247)
..___ 1004 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno l
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ..............................................2071 Escarpa Drive, Los Angeles 41
H. Guy Walford......................................................................533 Adams Street, Bakersfield
(M. No.486)
Arthur L. Bell
___ j228 LaSalle, Los Angeles 47
(Sr. W. No. 405)

FINANCE
Qaude H. Morrison (35)------·--- -··-····--·····- ·-.Box 1311, San Diego 12
F. Wesley Davies (577)-----·- -···--···-··-·8 49 San Vicente Rd .. Arcadia
John W. Davey (260) ........................................................2164 Hyde St., San Francisco 9
l!dward H. Siem.a (56<)).________________
_______________ 1106 Broadway, Oakland 4
Phil N. Myers (430)---·--- --·····--·-····-- -··--··---·P· 0 . Box 158, McCloud
Paul F. Balclt..
·--·---·---1 884 28th Avenue, San Francisco
(M. No. 144)
Marcus A. Woodward.._...·····--·-·---··-·--·-···99 Suffolk Avenue, Sierra Madre
(Sr. W. No. 647)

Louis Sutter (225)___
69 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Wilbur D. Crosby (7<>t)
26 Claremont Ave., Orinda
c. Stanley Chapman (339)---··--- __ ..Chapman Ranct F~er~n
Thomas F. Mason (198)---····- -----···--·---9 16 N. Edgemor;,.
ge
Otis G. Prqasel...-·---- --···---·--··----- ---2153 Rock Glen Ave.,
ge1es
(M. No.618~
Carl Walter.....·-···-·-··--·--··-..·--···--··-1 5 Woodsworth Ave., Redwood City
(Sr. W. No. 461)

An

.ti

PAY OF MEMBERS
Loyd C. Campbell (352) ............................................................5741 S. 1st St., Vernon 11
John V. Bacigalupi (190-·_
___108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
ames Leo Ward (45) ....- .............---··-···--··· ------806 J St., Crescent C~
. Howard Edwards ( 578 )---·--·-···-·......_ ...5328 Ellenwood Drive, Los Angeleds
Keith W. Schlaegel (372)
··-·..- - - · - ·
72-t W. 16lst St.. Gar ena
Philip M. Hd.sch..--·-- ·---······-·-·----··
·
--7H Almond St., Yuba Oty
(M. No. 70)
Vernon Clarence Chrlstian...·-······--·---- ·--·----136 2 Pine St., Pittsburg
(Sr. W. No. 429)

J

CHARTERS
Glenn C. Holmes (681)..:..-...- .........-..
P. 0. BLx 9XoMdndo:J
Wm R. Hervey. Jr. (202)---······ ·--------458 So. Spring SRt., doss gMes
Wm: J. Williams (685)-----·- -_H76 Bradbury oa • an arlno
Harold Meyer (481) _____________ ____ __2243-34th
Ave.. San Francisco 16
Ralph W Colllm (566)----- --...
811W.7th St.. Los Angeles 14
Nathan Gartner- -----··--·
....3317 63rd St.. Sacramento 17
(M. No. 40)
Charles Everett Bradley..- - - - - - - .........401 Patch Ave., San Jose 28
•
(Sr. W. No. 479)
.

BY-1.AWS
Oakley K. Morton (259) ......·--··--·-----·· -·····..-···-··-···Courthomle. Riverside
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ..........................·-···-·····-······ -··---··--···-----·- -·--·M&!hasa
Wm. W. McKee (642) ......................................................-17 Oriole Roed. Santa
Robert c. Peyton (392) ..___................- -······-·-·--910 N. Foothill Roat,_Bev~l~
13
Lee T. MulleD (392)----····---·---·---~ W. 3rd St., 628 Wg ood
Wayne GleaaoD---- --·-···
_ I > . 0. Box
, estw
(M. No. SOI)
Walter G. Herman - - (Sr. W. No. 80)

ffill:

00

GRIEVANCES
Frank B. Belcher (445)----- ···
__510 So. Spring_St., Los Angeles
Joe L. Shell (35)-----·- ·-··-·-·------·-· ···County Court House, San Diego
Albert F. Ross (254)----·----~-----·----·-·-·---·----·-----------··---··Redding
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ..- ...·--------·---··-- -·---.lll Sutter St.. San Francisco -I
Ralph E. Hoyt (268)--- - - - - - - - - - - ----89 Hillcrest Road, Berkeley
Keith Hamner----·-···-··-··-·--------·---·--·-·-------·---· ---303 Hillsdale St., Eureka
(M. No. 552)
P. Leslie Manker..__
··-·
___••614 Bishop Or., Santa Rosa
(Sr. W. No. 57)

RETURNS
Henry G. Mathewson (514) ..- ..-··-...·-··
869 '1...alnutSSt., llameda
Francis J. Herz (464).---·-00--·---·------2358-f~~ Mve.j
pan~co
William G. Buxton (429) - - ----···
ap e t., ltts urg
E. Lloyd Hanson (494) ...----··---····-- ---1175 Wellington St.. Oakland 2
Dan Bosschart (435)---- ---·
P. 0 . Box 692, Los Altos
Lee C. Sh~···--···-----P. 0. Box 137, Santa Rosa
(M. No. 57)
lr•A~
----.,-~~~
Ralph ---v·----~------- (&. W. No. S) ----101 East H St., Benlda

S

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CORRESPONDENC E
Newcomb Condee (614) ........•..............- .•·-······--······--··Hall of Records, Los Angeles 12
Oscar C. Olsen (497) ··--·---······-······-····-····················..2095 - 29th Ave., San Francisco 16
Herbert G. Polhill (327) ..............405 Farmers & Merchants Bank Bldg., Long Beach 12
Merle E . Frantz.....-··-·····-···--······---·····················-·-······················410 Semple St., Modesto
(M. No. 675)
William J. Bartle...•..........................- .. ····-·······································-·····················Mendoclao
(Sr, W. No. 179)

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
Andrew Burke (549) ....•-···-·········--·················--·····--2S Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Samuel F. Worswick (494) .......................•........·-----··-···--l-t.33 Madison St., Oakland 12
Alfred F . Breslauer (344) ...- •.····-·······················•··-····----lll Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Cyril W eeks (120) .............................. :.•.............•....•_...3638 W ebster St., San Francisco
Robert H. Dudley....................................................................412 B. Mcintyre, China Lake
(M. No. 69 1)
Milford B. Armatrong......................................... ........ - ......... 1316 Laguna Ave.. Burlingame
(Sr. W . No. 400)

LODGE FINANCING
~jard J. Blickfeldt (535) -----·---··························~·····--···-590 Hargrave St.. Inglewood
a ter Pybon (166) ....................................................~ California St., San Francisco 4
Richard A. Steves (259 )·-······-·······--·········-·················--Citiuna National Bank. Riverside
Clinton T . Duffy ( 191 ) ·······-············-··-··-············--·····---·····-······················--·······-······Kentfleld
Darrell R. Purcell (40) ........................................ 1523 Los Molinos Way, Sacramento 19
Mark A. Green (320) ...............................................523 S. Rampart Blvd., Los Anoeles 5
E. Herbert Phillips (349) .........................·-····--··············-····-·····-.35'4 - 17th St., Oakland
W . Howard Harris............................. ·-·-·----·----·------- 11348 El Dorado Ave., San Fernando
(M. No. 343)
Harold N. Richards .......................................................... 1880 _,. I0th Ave.. Sacramento 18
(Jr. W . No. 20)

NECROLOGY
Roy C. Bryan (513) .....•.......................•......................829 Longwood Ave., Los Angeles -5
Ross K. Roper (360) ...............................•...................•....•.•....... 1457 Gilbert St., Hayward
Frank Everett (646) ....................................................3282 Veteran Ave .. Los Angeles 34
Lyman V . Vtnum..................................................--..........221 1 - 6th Ave .. Los Angeles 16
(M. No. 414 )
Gilbert Elmer Christianson. .....................................................225 East Kingsley, Pomona
(Sr. W . No. 246 )

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIA L

405

COMMITTEE S
RITUAL

Walter H. E. vonKonsky (550) ................................877 Valencia St., San Francisco 10
Clare B. Campbell (230) .................................................... --·····-...Rt. l , Box 162, Gridley
Mervyn E. Hanshaw (471) ...............•............................_..1218 W. Walnut St .. Stockton
Elbert W. Davis (571) ....................................................~---·--···.29(}8 Russell St .. Berkeley
Raymond G. Taylor ( 466) ...... ···········-················-··························--·.Bax 887, Bakersfield
Guy B. Mize (368) ................................... _.....................-1238 Id!ewood Road, Glendale 2
August H. Allen (241) ........................--·····-·················-········6H McClay St .. Santa Ana

MASONIC HISTORY
Leon 0 . Whitsell (293) ·····-················ ···-···················--1565 Newlands Ave., Burlingame
Charles R. Ingram (23) ... ·-···--·-----······-·---····-···-···········-···1238 E . Cola St.. Santa Barbara
Wilson E. Newlon (541) ..........................................................981 Miller Ave., Berkeley 8
Samuel Steelman (325) .......·-······································650 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 14
0. J. Wohlgemuth (122) ---·-··········---~---·········-···•·······-······P. 0. Box 247, Walnut Creek

MASONIC INFORMATION
Henry W. Coil (635) .....•.·-··-··-··-··-·----···-···········-·-···--·············Box 512, Riverside
Alvin Wendt (506) ........... ···············-·'"h•··•···········-·······-··-···Route 2, Box 3556, Aptos
Robert F. Shippee (458) ................................................408 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE
Albert C. Wollenberg (344) .............................................:......Clty Hall, San Francisco 2
James T. Fraser (79) ....................................................----·-··432 W. Hawthorn, Eureka
Dudley H. Nebeker (403) ..................................................... 1419 Broadway, Oakland 12
William P. Self (431) .....•... ~···-····-···············-········--··-···--612 Bissell Ave., Richmond
Stewart B. Andrews (494) ·-·-·········-········-···-····-·······-··-108 Hillside Ave., Piedmont 11
Lee D. Mathews (405) .•.---··-··-··-··········---··-····-············.1628 West 82nd St., Los Angeles
Frank Everett (646) ······-···-················-···········-·-·····---3282 Veteran Ave., Los Angeles 34
Milton J. Sapiro ( 120) ---············-··-·······-···-.5 5 San Leandro Way, San Francisco 16
William F. Traverso (500) ······-···············-·········-25 Elmhurst Drive, San Francisco 12
Charles Wade Snook ( 403) ........................................................Superior Court. Oakland

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
George D. Gavin ( 144) ··--·········---·······-···--·~---·79 New Montgomery St., San Francisco
Robert A. Odell (418) ...........•................................ 1011 Van Nuys Bldg .. Los Angeles 14
John M. Lee (579) ---·········-··········-··-······················•tlO Blackwood St., North Sacramento
Robert G. Woll (561) .......................................................JlM Gregory St., San Diego 4
Lowell K. Baine (244) ..•.·-·······-'-···············-····-·.__..;.__..4216 Webster St., Oakland
Forrest H. Keck ( 178) ........................................--...306 Edgerton Drive, San Bernardino
Roy L. Sawyers (418) .................................................................. 1652 El Rito, Glendale 8
Hersha! J. Lay (378) .:..•.......................•...·-··········-···-···.12148 Califa St., No. Hollywood
Perry H. Barrett (699) ...............•.......•.·-··-····-··---····..J37 Orlena Ave.• Long Beach 14
Harry L. Buckalew (366) ......................... ·-······-·············-·:··.10!9 No. Van Ness, Fresno

SOCIAL SECURITY AND UNEMPLOYMENT TAX
R. P. Wisecarver (478) ....•.....................................315 Montgomery St .• San Francisco 4
James E. Hammond (568) ·················-···-·····-····--··········---·--111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Robert R. York (349) ............·-······-·····-·····-··········--············.1924 Broadway, Oakland 12

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

407

DE MOLAY
Raymond S. Kimbell (22)-········-·-·-·--···-······46 Allston Way, San Francisco 16
Thurman D. Moyers (366)·-···--·-····-·-··--······-·--830 Normal St., Frseno 4
Kay V. Smith (580) .. ---·--···-·-····-····---·····-·····-1229 San Miguel, Lemon Grove
F. Harold Butterfleld (635) ................-·-······-·····-····-···············Court House, Riverside
Henry Honaker (566)--...._ ......- ...--...- ......_ .._,..........3()1} W. Palm Ave., Compton
Walter Flierl (243) ········-··--·······················-···-······················P• 0. Box 123, Hayward
Francis W. Peters (319) ......- .....- ................................547 Oakford Dr.. Los Angeles 22
Edwin R. Brooks (431) ..._., ___.._........... _..___ ....- ..--..- ....717 Bissell Ave., Rkhmond
Alvin E. Clark (40) .. --·····-··..····---····-··-··-···----·---······-··--719 K St., Sacramento

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
John R. Moore (667)____
453 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Arthur S. Crites (224) ..·-----··-···
1001 Oleander St., Bakersfleld
Newcomb Condee (614) ..........- ............--..--··--······Hall of Records, Los Angeles 12
Arthur W. Brouillet (449)·---..··-----1114 Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco 3
James F. Dougan (389)---·-····-·············..·····..·-·-···-··-i210 Linden Ave., Long Beach 2

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEREMONIES
COLUMBIA TEMPLE
Ira W. Coburn (216) ··-···..··-······..···········--................2+f0 Mari_posa St, San Francisco 10
Fred Inge! (514) ................-·-··-·--·......................................20 Estero Ave., San Francisco
Cecil B. Mathews (8 )------··-···-..·-····............................-··-······--····..-·Box 936, Sonora

~:h1'Jr ~~&:ic·( 1~ )~=~-===:=-~==:::-__:-.=~-==::::::::::::::::=.-=::::::~-==-~::::::tnn:!

Chester M. Smith (S25) ...·--·--····-·-·-····--··-··--····-&tO - 4th Ave., San Bruno
James W. O'Bryan (451)·--············-··-·-·····---·-·---········711 W. Arden, Glendale 2

MEMORIAL BUILDING
Edward H. Siems (560)--------·-····-··-····-···--··1106 Broadway, Oakland 4
James Hurst (l) ..----·-----·-·--···....·-··----155 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Henry J. Brunnler (481).-...._.._..............-·-·--····---..........2100 Green St., San Francisco

INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
Francis V. Keesling ( 1) - -..--........- ............- ...315 Mont_gomery St., San Francisco 4
Paul A. Pflueger (370) ...-·-·--............_......................- .....-Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Oaude H. Morrison (35).·---·····-········-···..- - -..- ...............Box 1311, San Diego 12
Charles E. Moore (630)-------·-··-----·..·--···-·-·P• 0. Box 658, Los Gatos
Ralph H. Head (352)----···-···-·-·-···700 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
Arthur W. Brouillet (449)
.. 1114 Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco 3
M. Jay Jensen (454)---·-·-----····-c/o Olivet Memorial Park, Colma 25
Horace W. Rice (191)------·--··--·--315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Ray A. Farley (564) ............................................................5742 Fleming Ave., Oakland 5
ohn R. Garside (341l----·--···-·····--··----···-··50S Washington Ave., Richmond
ames W. O'Bryan (451)---····-·······-····-·······-·······--·······711 West Arden, Glendale 2

J

RESEARCH LODGES
Arthur Paulsen (27) ............................................................................................Weaverville
J. Everett Houser (504) ..................................................814 Security Bldg., Long Beach 2
Arthur H. Triggs (40) .....-···--·-···-·-·······-··..··········.2117 Funston Place, Oakland 2
Edward H. Rowlns (324)-·--·-·-··-··---·---·-·...-922 N. Craig Ave., Pasadena
Cyril L. Weeks (120).___________,......--··--··-··--3638- Webster St., San Francisco
Carl U. Zachrisson (144).--·--··--··--·-..···-45 - 25th Ave., San Francisco
John A. Owen (647) ........---·-······-····-·-·--MS No. Hawthorne Blvd., Hawthorne

Ellsworth Meyer (677) ...- ...................- .......- ......._....2071 Escarpa Dr., Los Angeles 41
Walter H. E. von Konsky (550) ................................877 Valencia St., San Francisco 10
Roy C. Bryan (513) .....- .......................- ...·-·············829 Longwood Ave., Los Angeles 5

SOJOURNERS COMMITTEE
William J. Courtiour (504), Chairman.........................- ....3645 Rose Ave., Long Beach
Chester R. MacPhee (455), Co-Chairman............1048 Valencia St., San Francisco 10
Earl J. Saxon (371) ........-···-··-·····-···---·--·--1767 Gladys Ave., Long Beach
John H. Ferguson (327)--·-··-·-·····------t16 No. Maine Ave., Long Beach
George A. French (25) ..·-····-·········-·······--···-···--··P· O. Box 272, Georgetown
Harold J. Cook ( 35) .....--·····-··-·····-·-···--·--··;..-2858 Kalmia Place, San Diego 4
Gilbert R. Morris (128).--..............-·······-·-······--·--109 Mayfair Drive, Salinas
Edward T. Koford (57) ................·--···-···-····--Bank of America Bldg., Santa Rosa
J. J. Jackson (27) ....--·····-..·····-·-······-..··---·-·-Courthouse• Weaverville
305 Sunset Drive, Lodi
Earl Johnson (256) .....---···..···--··--···-·---·
John A. Dull (421) ...-··-·-······-·········..··················..3730 West 59th St., Los Angeles 43
Joseph Lynn (585).---··---····-·-···-·-··-···.219 W. Manchester Ave., Los Angeles 3
Anthony J. Oliver (509)-·······-·····-···-··----···2377 Castilian Drive, Los Angeles 28
Gene C. Otwell (705) ..._ . __ ..__________
759 Creston Road, Berkeley
354 - 17th St., Oakland
E. Herbert Phillips (349)-----·--·····--Winfleld S. McLees (632).______........:._..__________6252 Rose St., San Diego 15
Nadell E. Jensen (635) ..- ...---············-··.. ____,, _____3285 Lemon St., Riverside
Ralph E. Williams (617)------·····-·-···---··········-··P· 0. Box 23, Big Bear Lake

408

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONSTITUTIONAL

BOARDS

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

409

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUB HOUSES

ENDOWMENT BOARD

BERKELEY

Ernest G. Bashor (352) ........................•.......600 Edwards-Wildey Bldg., Los Angeles 14
Edmund A. Lockett (599)----·······························---···552 So. Raymond St., Pasadena 2
Charles E. Moore (630) .............................................- ...•...........P. 0. Box 658, Los Gatos
Ira D. Wheeler (637)·-······························-·······--··-·······--·--··.Boz 891, Santa Monica
Omo E. Tyler (442) ..-·········································-·--····-···3921 Kansas St., San Diego 4
Clovis J. Robert (202) ...·-····································--576 San Marino Ave., San Gabriel
Lester A. Price (379)---····-········-·-·····················--··--·-·····458 Saratoga St., Fillmore
John M. Gordon (202) _____...•.............................5701 Hollywood Blvd., Los Angeles 28
Byron Coleman (453)---··-·······························-·····220 Montgomery St., San Francisco
Leonard R. Avilla (346) .................................................. 1717 Middlefield Road, Palo Alto
Walter H. Ireland (516) •.....-·······································-····Route 1. Box 679A, Porterville
Harry A. Nauman. Jr. (58) ······································--·----2021 - 28th St., Sacramento
Rhine G. Meyering (366) .........................-···············-······--.3228 Kerckhoff Ave., Fresno
Olen T. Turner (505) .....- ...................... ···············-·-········1523 W . Ninth St., Santa Ana
Rue W. Sims (188) .••...____....................................- ........898 Rodney Drive, San Leandrc

Walter T. Helms (347)·-·······-·····-··-........,.................·--··················-Box 1702, Richmond
Carlisle D. Nielsen (541) ····-···············---·-·--·················--···170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley
R. P. Wisecarver (478) ...- ............•.........................31S Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Earl Warren (349) ................................................._ ..............State Capitol, Sacramento 14
Russell C. Horstmann (336) .........---·-···································--···.560-57th St., Oakland 9
Frank R. Killinger, Jr. (336) .•..........•..................................- ..... 1221 Walnut St., Alameda
Leo E. Sievert (685) ....·-···-····-·····-····--····-··-·······114 Sansome St., San Francisco 4
Paul S. Boren (551 )--·····························-··-·········-········ ............ 1947 Tiffin Road, Oakland
Carl B. Munck (564) ..---····-··-····-··--··-··········--··-················1419 Broadway, Oakland 12

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Chas. M. Wollenberg, President (344) .......- .............2070 Pacific Ave., San Francisco 9
Leonard Gross, Vice-President (654) ..·-····-··························7411 E. Third St., Downey
Chas. Albert Adams (166) .....................•......................Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco 5
L. Harold Anderson (346) •...·-··········-················:........24S Market St.. San Francisco 6
Ralph H. Head (352) ..........................................700 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles
Myron E. Smith (394) ...................................- .................727 W. 7th St., Los Angeles IS
Arthur M. Warren (481) ....- .....- ...•.................................3060-16th St., San Francisco 3
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528)·--·--·-·-·--··-····-·-······-623 So. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Henry C. Clausen (630) - --·········-·················-··..31S Montgomery St., San Francisco 4

BOARD OF CONTROL
Jack C. Butler (58) ...·-··-·····················-····-···-····-·--····---P- 0. Box 501, Carmichael
John T. Martin (657) .......·-················-··'"··········-·--·······..3111 Edith Lane, San Diego 6
Guy A. Tolle (577) ...-·-······················-····-····--..200 E. Slauson Ave., Los Angelea Si
Harry F. White (347) ......·-··-····-···············································1261 Broadway, Fresno 1
Reginald M. Mills (61).___________________.........- ........•........ 1061 Market St., San Francisco

LOS ANGELES
Ellsworth Meyer, Chairman (677) ........- ..................2071 Escarpa Drive, Los Angeles 41
A. Curtis Smith, Vice-Chairman (618) ............- .........211 No. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills
C. Earle Crane, Secretary-Treasurer (528) ................891S Burton Way, Los Angeles 12
John Stewart Ross (384) .......•.......-····--··················-1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles 42
Clyde C. Shoemaker (566) ................•- ...•............•••,_•..•.•117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
John A. Klarquillt (445) ................. ...-...618 So. Western Ave., Los Angeles 5
Oscar Lawler (290) .............·-·--·····-·-··-····---800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
Elvin C. Drake (677) ....._....................- .........- .........1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) •.---·············-····-··--····-···-41SS Greenbrier Road. Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327) ..................- ................. ...... 1505 Armando Road, Long Beach 7
William R. Gallagher (467) ......................_...................Municipal Court, Los Angeles 12
John M. Askin (278) ·····································-·········701.C Hall of Justice, Los Angeles 12
Howard M. Wilson (677) ..-···················--··········.357 No. Crescent Drive, Beverly Hills
Herbert H. Cooper (614) .........................- ···-·········---1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25

410
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

Repraentatin:s

411

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

California ··-·--·--No. L .. David Thomson, Senior Warden
Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master
and Grand Treasurer
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P. M. and Inspector
James Hurst, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
Duncan A. McLeod, Past Master
Charles C. Trowbridge, Jr., Past Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Past Master
Western Star ····-··-·--··No. 2.... Charles E. Hall, Senior Warden-·----$ 31.82
Tehama ··-·-·--·-·-No. 3.... E. Emmett Ramey, Master-······················· 7.24
Nicholas L. Bican, Senior Warden
Harry E. Sollenberger, Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia ···--········-··---No. 5.... Gary H. Conlin, Junior Warden.................... 3.10
Dwight E. Wood, Past Master
Tuolumne -······--·-···--No. 8.... Wallace E. Ware, Master···············-·········· 10.86
Urban N. Halliday, Senior Warden
Charles C. Hale, P. M. and Inspector.......... 9.66
Corinthian ···············-·········No. 9.... Raymond E. Burton, Master .......................... 8.30
Aaron Burt, Senior Warden
James W. Robinson, P. M. and Inspector.... 8.30
Geo. W. Williams, Past Master
San Jose ---····---No. 10.... Ralph 0 . Salmon, Master······-····················· 3.92
Nevin C. Fryer, Senior Warden
C. B. Sylvester, Grand Chaplain..----- 3.92
Elwood H. Austin, Past Master
Joseph S. Greenley, Past Master
Yount ···········-··--·---No. 12-.. George Nelson Ball, Master.......................... 3.20
George Oliver Potter, Senior Warden
Charles Urban Price, Junior Warden
Jack Mast, P. M. and Inspector......·-········· 3.20
Allen D. Owen, Past Master
Nevada ···--········-···········No. 13....Carl M. Ivey, Master···············-··················· 12.34
Thomas H. Taylor, Junior Warden
Temple ··---··--·-···-······No. H .... Hugh L. Duckett, Senior Warden................ 3.00
Theodore L. Picco, Junior Warden
Eureka ------··-···--No. 16.... Harry Dan Shoemaker, Master...................-. 7.30
Edward Daniel Pillsbury, Senior Warden
La Parfalte Union ·--···-·No. 17._Edouard J. Lagarde, Master
Felix Lasalle, Senior Warden
Rene Monbelgt, Junior Warden
Andre L. Armand, P. M. and Inspector
Brewster F. Ames, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfantl, Past Master
Jules Ramond, Past Master
Mountain Shade ··-··········No. 18.... Not Represented.
San Joaquin --···-····-···No. 19.... Norman A. Schwartz, Master...................... 6.86
TracyP. Grable, Senior Warden
John H. Southwell, Past Master
Washington ···········-·······No. 20.... George Calvin Clark, Master ...................... 7.24
Wil1iam E. Gray, Senior Warden
Hawaiian ··-··-·-··-·-·······No. 21.... Lawrence H. BerQstrom, Senior Warden.... 331.20
Occidental ·-·--·----···No. 22_..Robert P. Elder, Master
John Rudolph Hermann, Jr., Senior Warden
John August Mord, Jr., Junior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., P. M. and Inspector

Name of lodge

No. of Lodse

Representatives

Mileqe Allowed

William E. Bouton, Past Master
Lyle E. Patton, Past Master
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
Finn J. Angell, Past Master
Joseph A. Bennett, Past Master
Madison ···········-···-···········No. 23....Tom Legg, Senior Warden.........._.......•........
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master..•.........
Mariposa ········•···········---No. 24.... Stanley W. Meline, Master ...........•..............
Harry G. Wells, Junior Warden
James P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown -·-····-····---No. 25_John A. Iseli, Senior Warden..........·-·-··-···
George A. French, Grand Bible Bearer·-····
El Dorado ··-···-··- ·-········No. 26..-Yemon E. Allen, Master-·-·· · - - · · - Laurence H. Holland, Senior Warden
Donald I. Veerkamp, Junior Warden .
John Simpson, P. M. and Inspector................
Trinity ···-·····-···········-·····No. 27....George L. Burger, Master.·---··--···---··Arthur Paulsen, Grand Master
J. J. Jackson, Senior Grand Steward..............
Golden Gate ·············-·······No. 30.... Clarence P. Smith, Master
Raymond H. Bradley, Senior Warden
Howard J. Smith, Junior Warden
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
Harry K. Widup, Past Master
Gold Hill ····················---No. 32.... Kenneth N. Walters, Master...·-·····-·············
Ophir ···-·-····--·-·······No. 33.... Not Represented.
San Diego ·---·-·····---.No. 35.... R. M. Culbertson, Master--··---············
Harold J. Kircher, Senior Warden
Fred J. Ii. Rickon, Junior Warden
Harold J. Cook, Junior Grand Deacon..........
Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master......
Martin Ortlieb, P. M. and Inspector............
Joe L. Shell, Past Master·-···············-···-··-··
•
Howard .......................:....No. 37....F. C. Simmons, Senior Warden..·-···············
Santa Cruz ·················-·····No. 38.... Gustaf E. Wahlberg, Master...·-····················
Loren C. Johnson, Junior Warden
Henry Kaiser, P. M. and Inspector................
Roy L. M~yfleld, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master
Sacramento ......................No. 40.... Eugene Huston, Senior Warden..·-···············
Darrell R. Purcell, Past Master
Harry M. Baker, Past Master
Ronald Marshall Cate, Past Master
Martinez ·-········· ·····-·······No. 4 L .. Duncan A. Johnston. Master..... ·-··················
Wakefield Taylor, Senior Warden
Merrill Wright, Junior Warden
Benjamin Philip Schleifer, Past Master
Los Angeles ......................No. 42.... Samuel C. Goodman, Master....................... .
Saul Amdur, Senior Wudaa
August Flam, Past Master
Hiram ····-·················-··-···No. 43.... David Daniel Marita, Master-···········-·········
Mount Moriah ·············-···No. 44.... Leland B. Thrower, Master
Irwin J. Robertson, Senior Warden
Robert E. Howser, Junior Warden
Jack Walton Leishman, P. M. and Inspector
Alphonse F. Mailloux, Past Master
Daniel B. Richards, Past Master
Crescent ···--·······-··-··---No. 45.... Maris Ward, Senior Warden...--·-··-··James L. Ward, Past Master..·---·····--

12.34
12.34
22.80
8.90
8.90
11.96

11.96
29.38
29.38

9.00
50.84
50.84
50.84
50.84
50.84
33.56
6.32
6.32

7.24

2.30

47.56
9.80

32.86
32.86

412
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

Name of Lodse
Representatives

413

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Mileage .Allowed

Texas ................................ No. 46.... Not Represented.
Forbestown ...................... No. 50....J. D. Vance, Representative.......................... 12.22
Illlnolstown ···-··-·············No. 51.. .. BlaJn Evans Eddy, Master............................ 19.60
Suisun ···········-···········--·---No. 55.... Arne Digerud, Junior Warden ....................... . 4.02
Louis J. Hayes, Past Master
Volcano ···············-···········No. 56.... Harry C. Bo.ue, Master.................................. 8.5lJ
Santa Rosa ........................ No. 57.... Lee C. Shea. Master...- .................................. . 4.18
F. Leslie Manker, Senior Warden
Charles C. Warren, Junior Warden
Edward T. Koford, Grand Pursuivant.......... 4.18
L. Everett Richardson, P. M. and Inspector 4.18
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
E. L. Barnett, Past Master
Union ................................ No. 58 .... Edward G. Stillwell, Master......................... . 7.24
John K. Dixon, Senior Warden
Leighton D. Armstrong, P. M. & Inspector.. 7.24
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Jesse P. Bascom, Past Master
Gravel Range .................... No. 59.... Erle Pauley,_ P. M. and Representative....... . 18.00
Eric Wm. Nelson, P. M. and Inspector....... . 8.30
Plumas .............................. No. 60.... Marlon Bruce Myers, Senior Warden......... . 27.96
Live Oak ··-························No. 61.. .. Laurence Edward Dayton, Master
John Roberton Thomson, Senior \Varden
William James Harris, Junior Warden
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Clarence Alberger Severin, Past Master
Natoma ..............................No. 64.... Rlchard Albert Blechschmidt,
Senior Warden ···-······················-················ 8.34
Am
ador ··-······················-··No. 65....Charles M. Blodgett, Senior Warden............ 10.44
Forest ···--············-·····-····No. 66.... Not Represented.
Morning Star .................... No. 68 .... Fred T. Schooley, Master.............................. 6.86
Alfred H. Knak, Senior Warden
George A. Fletcher, Junior Warden
Stanley Hurst Wentz, P. M. & Inspector.... 6.86
Enterprise ........................ _No. 70.... Phllip Marlon Heisch, Master..- .................. 9.80
Orace Alfred Kelly, Senior Warden
Hugh Dickson Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain ..................No. 76.... Not Represented.
Calaveras ·········--·············No. 78.... Wm. Frank Strong, Master............................ 9.68
Humboldt ·········-····-·········No. 79....Clilford Rasmuasen, Seriior Warden ............ .. 30.78
Howard B. Melendy, Past Master
lone ·······················-···········No. 80....Robert D. Cooper, Master...- ........................ . 9.64
Walter G. Herman, Senior Warden............. . 9.64
J. Wesley Sibole, P. M. and Inspector........ . 9.64
Herbert L. Coney, Past Master
Yolo ···-·--···-·-·-···············No. 8L.. Not Represented.
Vesper ..............................No. 84....Walter W. Dale, Senior Warden.................. 24.16
Naval ·············--············-···No. 87.... Melvin C. Baker, Master............................... . 2.70
Donald H. Bricker, Senior Warden
Osce 0. Jenkins, Junior Warden
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Joseph Brouss, Past Master
Ralph A. Neell, Past Master
Gustave Oerte , Past Master
Milton I. Dawson, Past Master
David R. Dohertv. Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
~ose's Bar ........................No. 89.... Tames M. Hapgood, P. M. & Representative 9.22
orth Star ·······-··············-No. 9L.. Not Represented.

St. Helena ........................ No. 93.... Wilbur W. Blodgett, Master....................... .
Elwood J. Mee, Senior Warden
John A. Mitchell, Past Master
Henry Clay -····················No. 95 ....zs~l~ w~g~:.nse!~~;;d;~-········--·············
Ru us B. Morrow, Past Master
Hornitos ·······- --·-···--·······- No. 98....James Short, Junior Warden..........................
Wilson E. Lathrop, P. M. and Inspector..... .
Yosemite ............................ No. 99....Frank G. Bohn, Master..................................
Donald E. Blauert, Senior Warden
Leland D. Boysen, Junior Warden
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master................
Clay ................................ No. 101....Herbert W . Haberkorn, P. M.
and Representative ......................................
Oroville ............... - ......... No. 103....Clarence Andrew Fylling, Master..................
Lexington ........................ No. 104....Glenn B. DeGarmo, Master........................... .
B. R. Wofford, Senior Warden
Arcata -········--······----···No. 106.... james Edwin Morton, Jr., Past Master
Pajaro ···········---·············.No. 110.... Andrew F. Edwards, Master..·-·····················
Chico -·············----···-·--·.No.

5.36

8.H
22.80
19.34
19.34
22.80
20.66
12.22
47.56
7.92

g~e:1a%~.SM:'er~~-~~~~---········----·· 21.60
111....Ji~~·
Ralph E. Scott, Senior Warden

Fred C. Irvine, Past Master
Summit ............................No. 112....John Beede Grohl, Master...........·-················
Eden ··-·········----·-·--·······-No. 113.... John B. Norton, Master
~dward A. Thiele, Senior Warden
Walter A. Henrichsen, P. M. and Inspector
Elwood D. Bona, Past Master
Robert N. Leard, Past Master

9.10

1t_FK:~~iJ.~8!~~---··--·······--········

7.24
Concord .................... .,....No. 117.... Wo'!1:i'd
L. Kenneth Tofft, Senior Warden
Forrest F. Stead, Junior Warden
Fidelity .........................._No. 120.... Merton A. Jacobs, Master
Mark H. Nusbaum, Senior Warden
Irving A. Berliner, Junior Warden
Cyril Weeks, Past Master
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Henry Levy. Past Master
Milton D. Sapiro, Past Master
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Alamo ..............................No. 122.... E. D. Charlton, Master.......- ........................... 3.00
Fred Champion, Senior Warden
Ralph M. Hinds, Past Master
Paul F. Ruff, Past Master
Sotoyome ........................No, 123.... C. Robert Plasberg, Senior Warden.......... .. 5.34
Table Mountain ............ No. 124....James F. Presley, Senior Warden.................. 23.30
LaFayette ······--··-···-----...No. 126.... bonald M. Scott, Senior Warden.................. 4.58
William C. Heatly, Past Master
Henry L. Singmaster, Past Master
Hermann ..................... _.No. 127- ··Henry Harde, Master
Willy H. Gehrke, Senior Warden
Alfred Floer, Junior Warden
John Behrens, P. M. and Inspector
R. M. Muhlmann, Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
Visalia ............................No. 128....

~~i:~h~~r~~:::.~~...................... 27.38
Gale H. Porter, Senior Warden
Marvin 0. Winlngs, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

415

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allowed

Gilbert R. Morris, Junior Grand Steward.... 9.26
James Barnett Lawson, P. M. and Inspector 27.38
F. Ross Fleming, Past Master
John William Manuell, Past Master
Nicolaus ······-····- - ··-···No. 129....J. N. Everhart, Master------- - ·····-·····-······ 10.08
· J. J. Allen, Senior Warden
Woodbridge -·-·-···-·······No. 131....Palmer A. Wells, Junior Warden................... 7.50
W. Corell Smith, P. M. and Inspector.......... 7.24
Sincerity ·······-·-·-···--- No. 132.._Jake De Hahn, Senior Warden ·-···········-··· 31.30
Vacaville ·········· · - -- No. 13-L.Austin T. Boblet, Master--·-··········-·········· 5.24
Jack Richetta, Senior Warden
Valley ·····-··-············-·- ·No. 135....Robert W. Lewallen, Master....·- - ················· 7.82
Ralph M. Foote, P. M. and Inspector.......... 7.82
Pacific ··---·--···-·······-No. 136.... Maurice Levy, Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Henry _B. Nathan, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
David Monasch, Jr., Past Master
Crockett - ···········-·········No. 139.... Theodore Ernest Klein, Senior Warden
James Low, Past Master
Ballard White, Jr., Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Fred J. Mahr. Past Master
Zina R. Callaham, Past Master
Wilbert H. Mason, Past Master
William A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
Richard E. Schreiber, Past Master
Curtis ··-··-··•···-·····--No. 140....James H. Black, Master- --····················· 5.20
Lowell 0. Duesler, Junior Warden
Hale E. Burger, Past Master
Grahon ·······-·-·--··-·---No. 141....Tohn Larson, Senior Warden.......................... 7.34
Franklin - - · ·-----..No. 143....Horace William Williams. Master·-·-··········· 8.10
Edward Theodore Lyon. Junior Warden
Oriental ·······-·················No. 144.... Paul F. Balck, Master
John C. Wiesner, Senior Warden
Walter Edward Sanner, P. M. and Inspector
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Vitruvius ··········--···-····No. 145.... Not Represented.
Abell - ···-···-·····-·- -__No. 146.... William E. Hildreth, Master..·-·--············· 9.o-t
Elmer M. Hopper, P. M. and Inspector........ 9.o-t
Eel River ······-·-···-··No. H7__Chas. Langdon, Junior Warden.................... 29.34
John E. North, Past Master
Lassen - -·-······--··- ---No. 149.._Fred W . Bode, Master.·-·---·-····--··- ······ 32.28
George N. McDow, Senior Warden
Elmer Glen Van Tassell, P. M. & Inspector 32.28
James A. Nutting, Past Master
Molino -·------ -···_No. 150....Edward F. Hill, Senior Warden..................._ 23.24
Woodland ......................_No. 156.... Marvln W. Greene, Master .......................... 6.96
Orvis F. Agee, Senior Warden
George L. Stivers, P. M. and lnspector...- ..- 6.96
Keystone ········--······-····No• 161.... Howard J. Tower, Senior Warden................ 9.26
Harmony ···--··········-····No. 164....Mitchell bevlln Underwood,
E
Senior Warden ·······---······························· 22.80
xcelsior ····-·············-···No. 166....Joseph Young, Master ·
Herman W. Bolte, Senior Warden
Joseph R. Edmiston, Junior Warden
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Grand Master

Name of Lodse

No. of lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Leslie E . Alt, Past Master ·
Wm. Blair Rixon, Past Master
Alameda ···-·-··- ···__No. 167....Richard A. Jolly, Master.•·--··-····-········- ·-·
Clark Redeker, junior Warden
Arthur T. Biddle, Past Master
·
Redwood City ······--No. 168.... lra A. Boynton, Senior Warden..·-··········Cecil F. Rouse, Junior Warden
Mission ·-----·-··--·No. 169....Melvin 0. Cooper, Master
Donald Q. Luce, Senior Warden
Arthur W. Demaree, Junior Warden
John C. Strickler, Past Master
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
Elk Grove - ·-·---·No. 173....Robert Samuel Mackey, Senior Warden......
Albert Henry Watson, Past Master
Thomas Lukens Conrad, Past Master
Drytown ·······-··--··.No. 174.... John D 'Agostini, Senior Warden.....·-········Antioch - -··--·-- ·-No. 175....Renold Victor, Master·-······--··-·-· --- ·
Phoenix __________No. 178.-Roy W. Kelly, Master...--··--·-··-·
Guy W. Whelchel, Senior Warden
Wm. J. Molnar, Past Master
Jesse W. Curtis, Past Master
Mendocino ------···--No.· 179....John D. Dearing, Junior Warden...........•......
Petaluma ---···-········_No. 180....George W. Lee, Master- -··-····---··- ··- ·
Charles W. Gorman. Senior Warden
Jay C. Milner, Junior Warden
Norman T. Van Bebber, Past Master
Park A. Van Bebber, Past Master
Russian River - ···-·-- -·No. 181....Mllton H. Flesher, Senior Warden.......•.·-···
Arbuckle _____ __No. 182.... Not Represented
Clear Lake ---····__No. 183._Clitford Windsor Smith, Master-·····-·- -·Clayton J. Wolf, Senior Warden
Sierra Valley ______ No. 184.... Not Represented.
Qaiborne _ ___._ _ No. 185.... Peter Nonella, Senior Warden......·--·····-·Evening Star - ·····-·-·No. 186.... Not Represented.
Keith ····- - - -·- ·-..No. 187...James Mercer, Junior Warden·-······· --·······
b. H. Chesbro, Past Master
Oakland ·······-·····-.;..•....-No. 188_John C. Taylor, Master
Will A. Allen, Senior Warden
James K. Wilson, Junior Warden
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Willard H. Nutting, Past Master
Northern Light ·······- - -·No. 190- Clayton J. Wolf, Senior Warden...·- ····-······
Thomas Copeland, Senior Grand Deacon....
Marin --··············- __No. 19L-Joseph Horvath, Master
Murray Baxter, Senior Warden
George T. Rowse, Junior Warden
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
Clinton T. Duffy, Past Master
J. Elmer Tourtellotte, Past Master
Warren H. Williams, Past Master
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Victor L. Cole, Past Master
True! F. Tourtellotte, Past Master
Santa Barbara -·············No. 192_..Eliot Haberlitz, Master---·-······-··-·····- -····Robert T. Austin, Junior Warden
Alfred W. Kincaid, Past Master
Ferndale - - ··········- No. 193....V. H. H. Willson, Master--···- - ········-·
Richard K. Hull, Senior Warden

2.50

2.00

8.74

8.86
4.12
52.26

21.38.
3.o-t

4.28
5.30
18.50
6.32

26.16
24.16

37.74
29.74

416
Name of Loclae

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodae

Representatiftl

Mileage Allowed

Mile88C Allowed

Mountain View ..............No. 19-t.... George F. W . Eade, Maater..........................
Frederick M. Chappell, Senior Warden
Edward F. Blalock, Past Master
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Buckeye •.........................No. 195.... W. Lloyd Adams, Senior Warden................
M. H. Sharp, Past Master
San Simeon .................... No. 196....Elmer Berri, Master......·-·····- ··························
James Franklin Fry, Junior Warden
Marcus L. Walz, Past Master
Wilmington ·······- ···········No. 198....Dwayne 0. Larson, Senior Warden............
Wm. H. Orwig, Junior Warden
Thomas F. Mason, Past Master ....................
Hartley ··-····- ················-No. 199....Edgar E. Hill. Senior Warden..- ..................
Guido de Ghetaldi, P. M. and Inspector........
Truckee ···-·······················No. 200....Elmer J. Stokes, Master..•...............................
Don H. Bowman, Junior Warden
Sllveyville ··- ·-··············No. 201....Herbert Pearson, Master_·····- ······················
Ralph H. Moss, Senior Warden
Denton Barker, Junior Warden
Rowland Moss, Past Master
Pentalpha ........................No. 202....Harold E. Sargent. Master.·- ··························
James C. Ayres, Senior Warden
Al L. Zehrung, Junior Warden
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
Wm. R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master..................
Howard H. Arnold, Past Master
John M. Gordon, Past Master
Conftdence ··········-··········No. 203....Eugene Dong, Junior Warden........................
Salinas - -······- ···········--No.

417

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

204....th:~t~-J~~~~ts~X:~~ewarden..................

3.50

6.32
28.08
47.56
47.56
6.40
6.40
24.96

5.52

47.56

47.56
8.74

9.26
Glenn W. Wilson, Junior Warden
Olivet - ··--············-----No. 205....John P. Glick, Master..·--··-··-····················· 22.56
Charles F. Rochford, Senior Warden
Otto B. Llersch, Past Master
Stanislaus ··-······-··········-No· 206.... (:lyde D. Prickett, Senior Warden................ 8.32
Anaheim ·····················- ···No. 207.... Warren 0 . Hodges, Master.-..................... 48.66
George W. Alden, Senior Warden
Harvey E. Kirk, Junior Warden
A. B. Cross, Past Master
Rio Vista __•...................No. 208....Ernest S. Hlerlihy, Junior Warden................ 7.24
·
Earl Stewart, P. M. and Inspector................ 7.24
King David's - ·- ············No. 209.... David William Gleason, Senior Warden...... 28.08
Kline James Williams, Junior Warden
Casper James Weir, Jr., Past Master
Friendship ............•.........No. 210....William P. Truran, Master_ ......................... 3.92
Robert C. Bodwell, Senior Warden
Arthur W. Simpson, Junior Warden
Lawrence A. Campbell, Past Master
Darrell John Sedgwick, Past Master
San Benito -········-·······No. 21 L ..Carl K. Sperber, Senior Warden.................. 6.10
Albert W. Hinz, Past Master
Herman A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Francisco ....No. 212.... Roger Fernandez, Master
Homer M. Rothery, Senior Warden
Leslie A. Stewart, Junior Warden
George A. Lastein. Past Master
Henry A. Kruger, Past Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Past Master

San Buenaventura ........No. 214.... ~:l~~rBJi~:rt~ll~=~;·w;;d;;;·····-···
Ernest Wren Argabrite, Past Master
Homer Wheeler, Past Master
Lyman Earle Hallowell, Past Master
Ced! M. McKnight, Past Master
Lemuel Lee Coy, Past Master
Glenn DeLloyd Corey, Past Master
Oak Grove ···-·······-··- ····No. 215_ W. J. Bartels, Master
Ed. A. Johnson, Senior Warden
Don L. Gelsert, Junior Warden
William Nankervis, Jr., P. M. & Inspector
H. B. Riley, Past Master
Homer A. Bock, Past Master
Doric ····--···--············-·No. 216_Ira W . Coburn, Past Master
Monterey --··- ·- ·-·-····No. 217_Donald Samuel Jaques, Senior Warden........
C. Haskell Warren, Past Master
Mosaic ················--__No. 218._.Samuel Bothwell, Sr.. Representative............
Speranza Itallana ······-··No. 219....James Camesecca, Senior Warden
John M. Icardo, P. M. and Inspector
John lcardi, Past Master
Antonio Cogliandro, Past Master
John Isola, Past Master
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
Downey ........................-No. 220_..Raymond H. Hammerton, Master..................
Joseph C. Johnson, Senior Warden
Inyo ··--·- ···············---No. 221....Russell A. Bell, Senior Warden....................
Roseville ···········-·······-·No. 222....Wllliam Clinton Langley, Master..................
Lucas Schaffer, P. M. and Inspector............
Bakersfteld ··-······..-···- ···No. 224....Fred E. Baldes, Master---··················
Richard H . Stanier, Senior Warden
William M. McKenney, Junior Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master............
Orville L. Coburn, P. M. and Inspector........
Albert E . Burton, Past Master
Mike S. Oldershaw, Past Master
John L. Van Zant, Past Master
Brooklyn ·- ················-···No. 225.... Ian A. Bremmer, Master
George E. Horne, Senior Warden
Searl T. Mathiesen, Junior Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, P. M. and Inspector
Roy F. Anderson, Past Master
Bernard D. Bungarz, Past Master
San Mateo -·--·- ·········-No. 226....Westley Pigmond Jones, Master
·
Clarence Charles Smith, Senior Warden
Athens ·-···········-··-···- No. 228.... August Rutishauser, Senior Warden............
Gus A. Haussler, Past Master
Solano -- -·-·-·-·······NQ. 229.... Gene A. Heinzman, Master..- ........................
Edgar T . Buhn, Senior Warden
Edwin B. Pierce. Junior Warden
Edwin N . Sanders, Past Master
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
L. Paul Dunn. Past Master
Leo L. Noel, Past Master
,
North Butte ··-···--········No. 230....Robert E. Haller, Senior W ardeli..·- ·············
Clare B. Campbell,
Assistant Grand Lecturer ............................
Covelo ...........---············No• 231 ....Not Represented.
Janesville ··-·················-·No· 232....Robert E. Blslaux, Maater...·- ·····-·················

39.98

9.94
3.92

47.56
55.16
8.74
8.74
32.48
32.48
32.48

S.10
2.70

11.50
11.50
33.54

418

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

419

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Calistoga ··-·---···-No. 233._Thomas B. Engleman, Representative--····- 6.04
Hope -···--·---·--No. 234....Arthur G. Brandt. P. M. & Representative_ 29.96
Surprise Valley ·-···--No. 235.... Not Represented.
Hills Ferry ······-····-·-No. 236.... A. H. Williams, Senior Warden...............- ... 8.86
William S. Thompson, P. M. and Inspector 8.86
Guadalupe ......................No. 237....l~~~. ~~a~:e~';xti~~d;;;······················· 30.56
bouglas H. Martin, Junior Warden
John Jenkins, Past Master
Henry Gewe, Past Master
Colusa ···················-····-No. 240....Darwln W. Spurgeon. Master..........-·--·······
H. M. Kingwell, Past Master
Santa Ana ···---·····-·No. 241.... Howard Law, Maata.·-·--·-························Frank L. Bowman, Senior Warden
Augustus H. Allen,
Assistant Grand Lecturer ........................... .
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Magnolia ············-·········-No. 242....Ralph B. McNall, Master----·--········- ······----·
Charles B. Weaver, Senior Warden
Joseph B. Sudduth, Junior Warden
Ralph C. Hine, Past Master
Carl H. Henrickson, Past Master
Eucalyptus ...................... No. 243 .... George I. Orth, Master
Leo 0. Thayer, Senior Warden
Max C. Paine, Junior Warden
Elmer Gaylord Quinn, P. M. and Inspector
Walter Flierl. Past Master
Joseph B. Prowse, Past Master
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
Fred H. Horwood, Past Master
Howard L. Burr, Past Master
Alcatraz ·········---·-No. 244._Emest Bartolomie, Master
Beverley Clement Sutliff, Senior Warden
Alfred Olsen, Junior Warden
Lowell K. Baine, Past Master
John Gustaf Sjoberg, Past Master
Avis Alberta Campbell, Past Master
Laurel ···-··········-····-····-.No. 245.... Daniel K. Jackson, Senior Warden................
Howard R. Allard, Past Master
Pomona ····-···········--·No. 246....William S. Southworth, Master..·-············-·
Gilbert E. Christianson, Senior Warden
Cecil A. Amerson, Junior Warden
Gordon R. Steiner, Past Muter- ·-·····- ····-·
Fresno ______ __No. 247.._Richard D. Heppner, Master..·----···-·-·--······
Roy R. Crawford, Senior Warden
Paul H. Lacy, Junior Warden
Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master......
Harry F. White, Past Master
Dan B. Hurlbut, Past Master
Alturas ·····-···-···---~· 248.._Robert McGarva, P. M. and Inspector..........
Adin ···-·········-····-······-·No. 250.... Not Represented.
Landmark ---·············-···No. 253.... Lawrence E. Brownell, Senior Warden........
Reading ··-···-·········-···-No. 254....George B. Burke, Master·-····························
William C. Knauer, Senior Warden
William H. Schooler, Junior Warden
Gilbert C. DeForest, Past Grand Master... _.
Albert F. Ross, Past Mast.er-······-···-·-··-Albert A. Bryceson, Past Master

10.88
49.82
49.82
37.74

20.28
50.38
50.38
23.76
23.76
40.32

7.76
26.98
26.98
26.98

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Welcome -------.--No. 255....Rolland Marvin Wol_fgram, Senior Warden
J. Ralph Dawdy, P. M. and lnspector...-···Sydney Jackson, Past Master
Lodi -·-···--·-·······-_No. 256.... Arthur Earl Blewett, Master....·--·····-······Rlchard Del McClure, Junior Warden
Penrhyn ·······-·-··---No. 258....Francis C. Lindsay, Master...·-·---·····-··-·
Evergreen ········-··-·--···No• 259.... Sherman G. Babcock, Senior Warden..........
Herbert J. Hackett, Junior Warden
Willard G. Babcock, P. M. and Inspector....
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master....................
Richard A. Steves, Past Master
James H. Jordan, Past Master
King Solomon's ····----No. 260.... Gerald Eugene Cook, Master
Russell H. Colliander, Senior Warden
Chester E. Lonkey, Junior Warden
John W. Davey, Past Master
Albert 0. Rier, Past Master
John E. Werry, Past Master
Tuscan ·····--··---··-No. 261....Charles F. Keith, Representative.......-······-···
Lompoc --·················--·.No. 262....Ellwyn J. Godden, Master--··-··············-·
Robert W. Chilson, Senior Warden
0. B. Chamberlain, Past Master
Hesperian ·······-··········-..No. 264.... ~~o~ll~=~~r~;-W;:d;~···---·····William Douglas Wisener, Junior Warden
Floyd H. Watson, P. M. and lnspector......Orland __________ No. 265 .... Harry Iversen, Senior Warden.·-·-·----·-·Northeast _______ No. 266 __ Not Represented.
Galt ·-·--··-·---·---No. 267_H, A. Caster, Junior Warden_ ____ ,___ _
Durant ·-·---·--···No. 268.... Carroll L. Porter, Master
Leonard H. Ford, Jr .. Senior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P. M. and Inspector
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
Kruger W. Wilkie, Past Master
Carlton E. DeWitt, Past Master
Olive Branch ·····--···--····No. 269.... Harvey T. Lauritzen, Master.·-······-····-.
Eugene M. Askin, Senior Warden
Snow Mountain ·········-···No. 27L.. Willard Paine, Junior Warden... ·--·-~----·
Pasadena -·········--···-····No. 272.... C. Francis Holman, Master..•...·-·-··--··--·
Louis A. Rogers, Senior Warden
Anchor ________ __No. 273....Ed. C. Irvin, M a s t e r - - - - - - - F. E. Vincent, Senior Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, P. M. and lnapec:tor._.
Charles F. Burke, Past Master
B. J. Little, Past Master
Theo. Newtson, Past Master
Arroyo ·······-······---···-··No. 214.... ~n:ddl·s?~:la~~ns~~w•··-·············
Harry E. Davis, Past Master
Oakdale -··--····-···_No. 275.... Raymond G. Hawkins, Master---·····-·········
Samuel S. Stewart, Senior Warden
Selma ··-···-········-·-····-·No. 277....Clifford L. Feaver, Senior Warden..........._.
Southern California ......No. 278....Dale Magor, Master..·-··--····-···-···-··········Paul N. Miller, Senior Warden
Adolphe R. E. Roome, Junior Warden
John M. Askin, Past Master
Harold V. Spender, Past Master
Charles T . Medler, Past Master

27.26
27.26
7.24
9.54
52.24
52.24
52.24

10.18
33.02
30.56
30.56
21.46
7.24

27.38
10.34
48.60
47.56
47.56

28.88
9.38

25.10
47.56

420
Name of Loclse

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

421

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No. of Lodae

Representatives

Milease Allowed

Hanford ····•·"······............No. 279....Kenneth E. Reinhart, Senior Warden.......... 26.58
Madera -···-···-··----No. 280....William Hare Wilcox, Master...........·-·····- 22.30
Harry Carsten Thede, Senior Warden
Mt. Shasta ·-···-······---No. 281....John Pelnar, Master·-··--·-··········-···-·-- 26.04
Callayomi ........................No. 282....Fred F. Berry, Master.................................... 5.00
South \Vest .................... No. 283.... Herbert J. McDade, Senior Warden ............ 50.84
Hermann H. Miller, Junior Warden
Charles R. Costello, Past Master
San Miguel ....................No. 285....Charles Forbes, P. M. and Representative.. 24.44
Orin Compton, P. M. and Inspector............ 28.08
Paso Robles ....................NQ. 286....E. A. Hudson, Senior Warden...................... 25.24
Winnedumah .................. No. 287....Stanford F. Lloyd, Senior Warden.............. 55.16
Maxwell ..........................No. 288....Bird G. Cross, Senior Warden..........•.........•. 10.88
Leland E. Wallace, P. M. and Inspector...... 10.88
Elsinore .......................:..No. 289....Lloyd W. Hales, Senior Warden.................. 53.04
Howard G. Habenicht, Past Master
East Gate ·······-··········-·No. 290.... Daniel Myron Hollar, Master-····-········-····· 47.56
Maxwell john Cameron, Senior Warden
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master...............• 4756
Emlyn William Reese, Past Master
Santa Paula ....................No. 291....Merwin H. Lee, Senior Warden.................. 41.34
Paul A. Wilson, Junior Warden
Gustaf A. B. Quick, P. M. and Inspector... . 41.34
Los Gatos ........................No. 292....Paul Lawrence Crider, Master...................... 4.82
Raymond V.laymot, Senior Warden
Loren Alton loyd, P. M. and Inspector...... 4.82
William Jones. Past Master
Frank E. Jameson, Past Master.................... 4.82
Orange Grove ................ No. 293....Charles S. McCandless, Master.................... 49.82
Kenneth A. King, Senior Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master.......... 6.86

29LJ.i~~o~· ~~~. PM'i!s~:.~~~

........................
Traver __ .......................No.
Mt. Jackson ....................No. 295....Harry Schaffner, Senior Warden..................
Silver Gate ..........;......... No. 296....Willard A. Brauch, Master..........................
Obe F. Rickerson, Senior Warden
Karl P. Bauman. Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, P. M. and Inspector..............
Dunsmuir ........................ No. 297_EarJ A. Whitson, Senior Warden............... .
Liberty ............................ No. 299 .... Byron Allen Moore, Master..........................
Archie Lee Moffett, Past Master
Redlands ..........................No. 300....Kenneth R. Dowell, Senior Warden............
Heartley E. Sandel, Junior Warden
Ontario ....- .....................No. 301...Albert F. Holmer, 'faster...........•..................
Cesar J. Cattaneo, Senior Warden
Reynold C. MacDonald, Junior Warden
Santa Lucia .................-No. 302.... Not Represented.
Porterville ......................No. 303....Hayden W. Ben!Do, Master..........................
Reedley ............................No. 304..•.Wayne W. Hulton, Master............................
Azusa .........................•..••No. 305....C. Dan Morgan, Master................. .................
Raymond W. Kelley, Senior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, P. M. and Inspector..
Ashlar .................- ..........No. 306....Frank LeVezu, Maater....................................
James Guy Davis, Senior Warden
Robert W. Nicol, P. M. and Inspector........
Santa Monica ..........- ... No. 307....Harold R. Acteson, Master............................
Parley J. Davis. Senior Warden
Joe A. Tay!or. Past Master
liarry H. Williams, Past Master

25.50

5.00
50.84
50.84
31.54

3.64

52.92
50.78

29.24
25.60
49.58
49.58
52.24
49.58
47.56

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage .Allowed

Monrovia ........................No. 308....h.Fvr~~r~J;~k.~a~;;·--···................... 47.56
Delano ........................._No, 309...Laurence E. Abbey, Master..- .....................
William J. Hurley, Senior Warden
Ward Robertson, Past Master
Sisson ..............................No. 310....Mervin 0. Adams, Senior Warden..............
Los Banos ........................ No. 312....Slclney Philip Roe, Master............................
Tehachapi ........................ No. 313....Eugene A. Ledyard, Master..........................
George W. Bennett, Senior Warden
Earl E. Whitney, Junior Warden
Harry J. Beauford, Past Master
L. T. Jenkins, Past Master
Temescal .......•................No. 314....Thomas C. Borden, Master............................
A. Harris Kieser, Senior Warden
Norwalk ..........................No. 315....l\r~1I,j~~d b1:fb~~j~;\\;;;J~~···--·--·

29.94
32.68
7.48
36.38

52.42
47.56

Sanger ............................ No. 316....Herman M. Ritter, Senior Warden................ 24.96
Fallbrook ........................No. 317....Earl Phillip Bauer, Senior Warden.............. 55.20
Emmanuel ......................No. 318....Arent Lee Olsen, Senior Warden................ . 12.66
Hollenbeck ...................... No. 319....Conrad E. Follendore, Master...................... 47.56
Thomas Piner, Senior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, P. M. and Inspector................ 47.56
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
John Swanfeldt, Past Master
South Gate ......................No. 320....Harold E. bill, Muter......·-··-······················· 47.56
Elwyn W. Stevens, Senior Warden
Clark F. Andrews, Past Master
David H. Terry, Past Master
Jay W. Wheeler, Past Master
Alisa! ..............................No. 321.. ..Forrest A. Adams, Master............................. . 3.36
Willard C. Bartsch, Senior Warden
Herbert T. Wilde, Junior Warden
Alhambra ........................ No. 322....Clare B. Whitney, Master............................. . 47.56
Henry L. Kedwell, Senior Warden
James L. Marriott, Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn. Past Master
Whittier .......................... No. 323....Roy S. McCartney, Master............................ 48.78
Frank C. Hadley, Senior Warden
Laurence L. Rag9lo, Junior Warden
John E. Chapin, P. M. and Inspector...........• 48.78
Corona ............................ No. 324.... C. R. Strafford, Master................................... . 48.60
Walter S. Grayson, Jr.. Senior Warden
George A. Ludlow, Junior Warden
Edward H. Rowins, Grand Orator................ 48.60
Irwin Beadle, Past Master
Walton Talley, Past Master
Consuelo ..........................No. 32S.... James W. M. Keith, Senior Warden. ........... 52.04
John Ulrich, Past Master
Needles ............•.•...........No. 326.... Merle Charles Hammond. Master.................. 52.38
Ralph Wentworth Austin, Senior Warden
Carl C. Mikesell, P. M. and Inspector.......... 52.38
Earl Black Gilbert, Past Master
Thomas C. Wood, Past Master
Long Beach .................... No. 327.... \Valter L. Greassner, Master.......................... 47.56
Wenzel Fabera, Senior Warden
John H. Ferguson, Grand Sword Bee1rer...... 47.56
Clark H. Shaw, P. M. and Inspector ............ 47.56
George J. PolhUI, Past Master
Herbert G. Polhfll, Past Master

422

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name of .Loclce

Redondo ·-·--··No. 328.....Louis A. Tallman. Master.·-······--····--- 47.56
George S. Fairbrother, Senior Warden
Vallee de France ·····--·-No• 329_Yves C. Po~n. Master--·--·-·-··· 47.56
Paul Ponce!, unior Warden
omasset, P. M. and Inspector 4756
Charles A.
Edgar H. Jacot, Past Master
C. E. Miller, Past Master
Kilauea ------·No· 33(L.Charles Richard Cartwright,
Senior Warden ··-··-······-··-······--·-·········· 362.40
Guy F. Murray, Past Master
Pacific Grove ·-···-__No· 331....Carl O. Patnude, Master.---·-··········-·· 10.08
Charles E. French, Senior Warden
Arch Balchin, P. M. and Inspector..............- 10.08
Edwin Arthur Cope, Past Master
Thomas Henderson, Past Master
San Pedro -···-·---No. 332._Edgar 0. Hansen, Master......·-·-················ 47.56
William H. Hall, Seulor Warden
John Ramsey, P. M. and Inspector......._....... 47.56
No. 333....C. T. Kispert, Master..·---·-...-.....- ...- ..... 44.10
Alta -·-·····--··..
William L. Davis, P. M. and Inspector........ 55.16
Covina -·-··-······-·-·-···No. 334.._James C. Hutchison, Senior Warden............ 49.58
Gail M. Jobe, Junior Warden
West Gate ···--·---No. 335....Leopold K. Levoy, Master.............................. 47.56
Kl.rt B. Crockett, Senior Warden
John M. Hayden, Past Master
Fruitvale ·--·-···--····- ··No. 336....'rheodore Scofield Bean, Master
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.• P. M. & Inspector
Carquinez ·-----No. 337....Charles R. Morton, Senior Warden........-.. 2.42
Glen N. Whitson, Junior Warden
Harvey R. Browning, P. M. and Inspector_ 2.42
William S. Brunning, Past Master
Thomas H. Cotten. Past Master
Richard P. Jones, Past Master
San Jacinto --····-·-·-···-No. 338....Edd 0. Cooper, P. M. and Representative.. 56.94
Fullerton --·········-··-···-No. 339....C. E. Miller, Master--··---····················· 48.54
Albert S. Murray, Senior Warden
William R. Rodger, P. M. and Inspector.... 49.46
Oxnard ______ No. 34 !....Francis Martin Harrington, Master.·-···-·- 40.78
Carl E. Mumper, Junior Warden
San Fernando _ ...........No. 343....William H. Harris, Master--·-···-··············· 43.84
J. Kenneth Savage, Senior Warden
·
Starr King ·-···-··-...No. 344....Ben A. Katz, Master
Homer E. Stewart, Junior Warden
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Halman L. Wayne, P. M. and Inspector
A. H. Barkoffi, Past Master
Alfred E. Breslauer, Past Master
Charles 0. Clausen, Past Master
Michael V. lgnotz, Past Master
Samuel Llpp_man. Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Muter
Brentwood ·· · -- -·_No. 345....Karl S. Abbott, Master..·--······-··················· 5.06
Russell A. Partridge, Senior Warden
Fred R. Abbott, Junior Warden
Palo Alto ----··-·-No. 346....John J. Williams, Senior Warden.................. 3.28
li. Perry_Smith, Junior Warden
Robert N. Walker, P. M. and Inspector...... 3.28
L. Harold Anderson. Past Master
Leonard R. Avilla, Past Master
Newton W . Glaeser, Past Master

i23

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Name of Lod&e

No. of Lodge

Represeuc:atives

Mileqc Allowed

McKinley -···········---~No. 347....Kenneth H. McCutcheon, Master
Fred R. DeBarrows, Senior Warden
C. Clare Thomas, Junior Warden
Rolla L. Eubanks, P. M. and Inspector
seph S. Alameda, Past Master
hn R. Garside, Past Master
alter T. Helms, Past Master ·
Isaac McGuffin, Past Master
John D. Williams, Past Master
San Bernardino ..............No. 348....William T. Hunter, Master.....................·-··Al G. Vaughan, Senior Warden
Walter L. Culver, Jr.. Past Master
Sequoia ···-······-···-·--··No. 349....Ernest A. Allen, Master
Owen R. Andker, Senior Warden
Lawrence E. Muntz, Junior Warden
Earl Warren, Past Grand Master..............-..
Henry S. Savage, Jr., P. M. and Inspector
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Raymond D. Laughrey, Past Master
Cyril W. McC!ean, Past Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
Palestine ..........................No. 351....Delbert A. Buck, Master................................
Henry E. Lestmann, Past Master
Sunset ..............................No. 352....Stanley F. Mcinnes, Master.......-.................
Kenyon C. Burch, Senior Warden
Rollie W. Miller, Past Grand Master..........
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master....................
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
C. Otto Miller, Past Master
Pinole .......................- ....No. 353....g~aA~~~~~~t~~n1'!8W~~·-········ ..······-·

W

Hugh Young, Junior Warden
George Pfieffer, Past Master
•
Presidio ..........................No. 354....Alexander L. Croce, Master
William D. Verbarg, Senior Warden
Grant Whitaker, Junior Warden
Joseph Myron Ruggiero, P M. & Inspector
Hollywood ......................No. 355....Earl W. Bolter, Master...._............................
Ralph L. Logan, Senior Warden
Harold A Mayer, Junior Warden
Leo Anderson, P. M. and Inspector..............
John T. Bond, Past Master
Walter F. Burbank, Past Master
S. A. MacDonald, Past Master
Edward P. Kysar, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Samuel Steelman, Past Master
Mill Valley ....................No. 356-Damon C. Burris, Senior Warden
Albert W. Miller, Junior Warden
Frederick A. Penn, P. M. and Inspector
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Frank C. Herrick, Past Master
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park ····-·····-·······No. 357....Harold Duff, Muter---····-·-··-···-·-........
Hallie Bizzle, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems, P. M. and Inspector..............
Golden State ...............-No. 358....Charles Marsh Good, Master-...................
George Daniel Kite, Senior Warden

52.24

7.24

47.56
47.56
47.56

47.56
2.00

47.56
47.56

48.32
48.66
47.56

424

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodge

Name of Lodge

425

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodac

B.epreseotatives

No. of Lodge

B.epreseotatives

Mileage Allowed

Mileage Allowed

Winfield R. Cram, Past Master
Arthur B. Dittman, Past Master
Maurice G. Henn. Past Master
Loyalton ···-·"·········-··....No. 359....Ellis S. Bass, P. M. and Inspector................
Joe Goss, Past Master
San Francisco ................No. 360.... Melvin A. Earley, Master
Charles C. Brewer, Senior Warden
Everett E. Burnworth, Junior Warden
Henry D. Ofulhant
Assistant Grand Secretary
Henry L. Alves. Past Master
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
Walter A. Parker, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Ross K. Roper, Past Master
Joseph A. Sangulnettl, Past Master
Fort Bragg .........._..........No. 361....William J. Welch, Senior Warden................
Harry Burrows, P .M. and Inspector............
Charity ............................No. 362....K. K. Dunton, Master.......•..............................
E. A. Merrill. Senior Warden
James H. DeVaughn, Jr., Junior Warden
Audrey Chambers Currie, Past Master
Berkeley ....•.................•..•No. 363....Willis Elmer Le Quatte, Master
William L. Duff, Senior Warden
Edward S. Ross. Junior Warden
R. P. Arnold, Past Master
Howard C. Butler, Past Master
Oliver L. McLean, Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Willits ............................No. 365....Bruce B. Steadman, Representative..............
Las Palmas ....................No. 366•...Norman S. Foley, Master..............................
Price Robinson, Senior Warden
R. D. Hargrave, Junior Warden
J. A. Hopper, Past Master
Rhine G. Meyering, Past Master
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
South Pasadena ............•. No. 367....Elton C. Bailey, Master ................................. .
Guy R. Kendall, Senior Warden
John W. Shenk, Past Master
P. J. Thompsett, Past Master
Unity ..............................No. 368....Phillip B. Stone, Master................................
Arthur A. Coughlin, Senior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Assistant Grand Lecturer......
Ocean Park ···-·-·······....No. 369....Warner T. Betts, Master................................
Harvey Lee Sawyer, Senior Warden
Dwight C. Freeman, P. M. and Inspector ....
Harold H. Kinney, Past Master
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
Frank C. Wolff, Past Master
Amity ..............................No. 370•...Norman C. Blecher, Master
Paul A. PHueger,
Assistant Grand Treasurer
Maurice E. Coffey, P. M. and Inspector
Henry 0 . Hammerlch, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master

31.04

18.50
18.50
4.42

12.60
23.76

48.60

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56

le Progres de l'Oceanie.. No. 371.... Archie C. Camp, Senior Warden.................. 331.20
Earl J. Saxon, Grand Standard Bearer.......... 331.20
Alexander Douglas Potts,
P. M. & Inspector.• _ ................................... 331.20
Gardena _ .......................No. 372....0. C. Rapier, Mastu...............- ................... 47.56
John G. Snider, Senior Warden
Philip F. Lucas, Junior Warden
Richard W. Ahlberg, Past Master
George Cunningham, Past Master
West Los Angeles ........ No. 373.... Richard T. Hamel, Master.............................. 47.56
Fred H. Blanchard, Senior Warden
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master
Ernest A. Wells, Past Master
Jewel ................................No. 374.... Solon Carlos Leonhaeuser, Master
Willard Carl Schaaf, Senior Warden
Philip M. Bovero, Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson, Grand Organist
Herbert H. Schultz, P. M. and Inspector
John Hooper Adams, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Otto ~ Freyermuth, Past Master
Louis P. Mayer, Past Master
Emile Meyer, Past Master
Thomas Perry, Past Master
Richmond ....- .................No. 375 ....Ellsworth R. Eidenmuller, Master
Lauritz J. Schell, Senior Warden
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
John B. Bieg, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
James Leo Halley, Past Master
William C. Johnson, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
Francis Drake ................No. 376....John James Porrazzo, Master
George E. Hall, Senior Warden
William H. Dawson, Junior Warden
Artesia ___.......... - ......No. 377-James H. Piercy, Maater................................ 47.56
George A. Wright, Senior Warden
Mizpah .......- ..................No. 378....Joseph E. Treharne, Master............................ 47.56
Gordon W. Guinn, Senior Warden
Harry P. Heidenreich, Junior Warden
Charles W. Lunsford, P. M. & Inspector.... 47.56
Fillmore .....................,....No. 379....L. G. Fansler, Jr .. Master................................ 42.14
E. E. Perkins, Senior Warden
L. C. Harmonson, Past Master
Lester Price, Past Master
Huntington Beach ........ No. 380....Marshall A. Tinsley, Senior Warden.......... 47.56
A. F. Lockett, Past Master
A. E. Prink, Past Master
Oceanside ........................No. 381....Wade H. Hyde, Jr., Senior Warden............ 54.40
Geor~e A. Otis, P. M. & Inspector................ 54.40
Highland Park ................No. 382....Roy R. Merchant, Muter.............................. 47.56
Robert R. Latimer, Senior Warden
Albert R. Bennison, Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Orosi --···················........No. 383...James G. Byers, Senior Warden.................... 26.74
Leroy Hillman McBee, Junior Warden

426
Name of LodlC

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodae

R.cpresen1ativcs

427

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileaae Allowed

El Centro ·······-··-···-No. 384....Davis B. Chambers, Master..·-······-··-·-Donald L. Young, Senior Warden
Charles H. Knights, P. M. & Inspector........
Lodah P. Alexander, Past Master
Dinuba ·-····- ·············- --No. 385._.Robert I. Heisner, Master.......·--···-··-········Wesley W. Sowers, Senior Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, P. M. & Inspector........
Coalinga ···················-·-·.No• 387....Steele A. Gates, Senior Warden......·-········-·
Charles E. Venard, Junior Warden
Wilfrid H. Boyce, Past Master
Parnassus -··········-·-···- No. 388....Homer D. Robertson, Master
George W. Gaffke, Senior Warden
Karl F. Koenig, Junior Warden
Joseph C. Durham, Past Master
Andrew L. Johnston, Past Master
Palos Verdes ······-·····- ··No. 389....G. Ra_y Weatherford, Master........................
Neal K. McCutcheon, Senior Warden
Imperial - -···-·- · --No. 390....Howard K. Rohen, Senior Warden..............
East Belt ·-··-··-···········No. 391....Ernest H. Hodge, Representative..................
West Lake --·············No. 392....John W. Chaney, Master- -·······- ···················
R. Bruce Murichson, Senior Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Stanley Cowin, Past Master
Clyde E. Hoykins, Past Master
Charles W . Jackson, Past Master
Charles E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Lee T . Mullen, Past Master
Robert C. Peyton, Past Master......................
Balder ···-···········-······-·.No• 393....0swald Christensen, Master
Walter E. Anderson, Past Master
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master
Nels S. Stohl, Past Master
University ···--····-·····-No. 394....William C. Buster, Maater_............................
Herbert C. Rudolph, Senior Warden
William E. Patterson, Junior Warden
Robert W. Emmert, Past Master
Wm. T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master
Myron Smith, Past Master
Turlock ·············-·-···-·····No. 395....Wayne G. Stowers, Master............................
Lester M. Talkington, Senior Warden
Eugene A. Sweet, Past Master
Apollo --········- ·····:._No. 396....Fred E. Champion, Master
W. Maxwell Boring, Senior Warden
Clarence L. White, Junior Warden
Laurel Keith Barnard, Past Master
Wilbert S. Condon, Past Master
John L. Darms, Past Master
Oi!Jord H. Noyes, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
Rising Light ················- -No. 397....Davis S. Ritchey, Master....·- -····················
Harry L. Maxwell, Senior Warden
Leslie V . Hughes, Past Master
Fraternity ·····-···-·-···-···No. 399....George W. Gillespie, Master.·-·····················
Edward W. Lenz, Senior Warden
Ray W. Mcintyre, P. M. & Inspector..........
Burlingame ···········-···---No• ..00....Kenneth R. Ford, Master
Milford B. Armstrong, Senior Warden
Paul T . Hotchkiss, Junior Warden
S. Leslie Hawken, P. M. & Inspector

67.94
67.94
26.14
26.14
28.20

47.56

70.72
11.88
47.56

Name of Lodae

No. oi Lodae

R.cpresen1atiTC1

Mileage Allowed

Lewis A. Cavalier, Past Master
Bay View -·--···---..No. 401._.Joseph P. Rom, Master
George P. Hoveh, Senior Warden
Arthur H. Triggs, Grand Marshall
Edwin M. Wetmore, Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley ···········-····-·····-No. i02....James B. Whlthead, Senior Warden............ 64.32
Earl C. Heatwold, Junior Warden
Y erba Buena - ················No. 403....Lester S. McElwain, Master
Glendora ···--··-······No. 404....George E. Abbott, Master·-··--··-··· - 49.82
Oarence F. Butz, Senior Warden
Fred T. Moore, P. M. f:J lnapectar.___ 49.82
Moneta - - ·······-·-·········-No. 405....~~mL.HBet~':o~.:=d~-;;-·-·-···---·· 47.56
Louis L. Cunningham, P .M. and Inspector.. 4756
Reeves W. Baughn, Past Master
J. Stanley Watkins, Past Master
47.56
Burbank ··----···-··- ···No. 406....0rrin D. Ellis, Senior Wardai...-·-··-·- La Mesa ··- ···-·····- -·-·No. 407....Earl K. Holmes, Senior Warden...·-···-···-· 50.84
Wilbur A. McBride, Junior Warden
Sierra Madre ····--·---No. 408....Ii:.vC. Mead, Master..·-··- ··-······················· 47.56

f ~h~J'e~e~:1~~~-~---·---

47.56

47.56

9.38

47.56

3.92
3.92

331.20
Honolulu -··-····-···-·-···No. 409....Bruce
Charter Rocle ..................No. 410.... Delmar G. Bailard, Master
Delbert Marriott, Senior Warden
Oare W. Wilson, Jr., Junior Warden
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Sanborn H. Smith, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Oare W. Wilson, Past Master
Perris -·-······-;-··----No. 411....~:i~h~. fi;i'i~:~y.~;;t;··········--··- 56.44
Calexico ·······- ·- ·--__No. 412....Tipton E. Pledger, P. M. & Representative.. 66.06
Arlington ··- - - · - ··.No. 414....Lyman A. Vinum, Master.·-······- ····- ···-- ·- 47.56
Walter E. Holt, Senfar Warden
Carl F. Peters, P. M. and Inspector.............. 47.56
Silver Trowel ..........:.._...No. 415....George W. Moore, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
Fred J. Martin, Put Master
Lindsay ··- -- - ·- ····No. 416-..Carl M. Danielson, Master............................ 28.44
R. L. Ward. Senior Warden
A. A Daniells, Junior Warden
Oovts - -·-··--·_No. 417....Emory E. Reyburn, Past Master
-- -No. 418...Lloyd A. Park, Master.................................... 47.56
Elysian ···George B. Danbacher, Senior W arden
Gordon C. Robinson, Junior Warden
Henry D. Coley, Past Master
Herbert N. Waugh, Past Master.................. 47.56
Upland ··- - ··· -·- ···No. 419....Charles E. Hogancamp~_Senlor Warden...... 50.90
Jack E. Shrum, Junior Warden
W. R. Fanner, Past Master
J. Harry Snowden, Past Master
Kerman ···············- -·_No. 420....Not Represented.
Inglewood ····-·····---·No• 421....Charley Ross Walter, Master...·-·················· 47.56
Roy 0. Franklin, Senior Warden
John A. Dull, Past Master
Eagle Rock ............-.No. 422....Richard H. Clarke, Senior Warden....·-······· 47.56
William E. Keogh, P. M. and Inspector.____ 47.56
__ ---No, 423....Rlchard R. Bartholome, Master- ········-······- 47.56
York
Harold W. Berg, Senior Warden

428
Name of Lodae

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Represeoaitives

429

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milcqe Allowed

Exeter - - ··-- ·-···---No. 424....C. Gordon Shepherd, Junior Warden............ 27.88
Holtville - ·-·············-·····No. 425....Ray B. Langley, Senior Warden.................. 65.38
Midway ......................•-.No. 426 ....Burton H. Miller, Master...·-·························· 33.68
Robert A. Smith, Senior Warden
Fred L. Isbell, Past Master
Rupert C. Sailor, Past Master
Chino Valley ···············-·No. 427....James H. Owen, Master................................ 50.38
J. W. Anderson, Past Master
San Dimas ......................No. 428... .Carl. R. Dean, Senior Warden...................... 49.96
Albert E. Carroll, P. M. and Inspector........ 49.96
John G. Soder, Past Master
Pittsburg ·--------·- ··--·--·--··No. 429.... Raymond L. Wildes, Master..·-·---················ 4.02
Vernon C. Christian, Senior Warden
N. P. Christensen, Junior Warden
W . Ralph Anderson, P. M. and Inspector.. 4.02
Fred A. Blackwell, Past Master
McCloud ...................- ...No. 430.... Doyle R. Briegel, P. M. & Representative.... 36.12
Charles S. Hogan, P. M. & Inspector............ 36.12
Phil N. Myers, Past Master.......................... 36.12
Alpha ..............................No. 431....Harry J. Stolfers, Master
Joseph B. Trimeloni, Senior Warden
Alfred L. Atwood, I unior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
William Fraser, Past Master
William P. Self, Past Master
Hammonton ------------···--No. 433....Wesley W. Barkley, Master.......-............... 8.30
Maricopa --------·--·-----No. 434....Harold D. Cawelti, Senior Warden.- ........... 33.68
Fairmount ...................... No. 435.... Robert C. Church, Master
George H. Carr, Senior Warden
Pieter A. de Vries, Past Master
Roy A. Pence, Past Master
William 0 . Purdy, Past Master
Claremont ....................- ..No. 436....0scar J. Ferguson, Senior Warden.............. 50.50
Lancaster ........................ No. 437....Edwln A. Rosecrans, Master.......................... 39.86
Carl C. Hedgecock, Senior Warden
Wallace Ward, Past Master
Acacia .............................. No. 438....Josefh Glltsch, Senior Warden...................... 47.56
Kar L. Ratzer, P. M. and Inspector.............. 47.56
Herman Kaestner, Past Master
Tyrlan ............................No. 439....Monte Honey, Junior Warden...................... 6.96
Delbert E. Luck, P. M. and Inspector.......... 6.96
Stanley Mortensen, Past Master
Standard .........- .......- ......No. 440....John R. Thompson, Master
Robert P. Nelson, Junior Warden
Coronado ......................-No. 441 ....Walter E. Shortt, Senior Warden................ 50.84
Charles W. Katt, Junior Warden
Harry S. Clark, P. M. and Inspector............ 50.84
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
Blackmer ........................No. 442.... William Henry Heritage, Master.......- ......... 50.84
George K. Palmer, Senior Warden
Oscar H. Nelson, Junior Warden
Oscar E. Hanson, Past Master
William R. Markle, Past Master
·
Omo E. Tyler, Past Master
Schofield ·------·--···-------···-No.· 443....H. F. Kollmeyer, Jr., Master.......................... 331.20
Robert C. Warren, Senior Warden
Carpinteria _______________ _No. 444....Charles S. Chunn, Senior Warden................ 38.66

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Milcqe Allowed

Wilshire ···-··-----·--··--No. 445....Wade H. Morman, Maater.......................- ..
Sylas S. Meyer, Senior Warden
Will H. Fischer, Past Grand Master............
Frederic E. Clark, P. M. and Inspector........
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master......................
La Puente .....................- .No. 446....Frank Lacina, Muter-------------·················--··-Torrance ..........................No. 447....John J. Gallareto, Senior Warden................
Mark A. Wright, Junior Warden
Mount Dlablo ................No. 448....George C. Johnson, Master....-......................
Granville A. Adams, Senior Warden
Sam R. Haley, Junior Warden
Thomas Broyles, Past Master
Park ------ - · -·- ·· -.No. 449.... Sidney L. Solomon, Senior Warden
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Grand Master
Reginald Duden, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Robert K. Huppert, Past Master
Van Nuys ...................._No. 450....Emmett T. Ophus, Master........................:.....
Harold S. Morrison, P. M. and Inspector....
Carl B. Sartwell, Past Master
Montebello ·--·········------No. 451....William H. McCauley, Master......................
J. William Werle, Senior Warden
Merville L. Lamb, Past Master
James W. O'Bryan, Past Master
Francis V. Vestal, Past Master
San Pasqual ..............•.._No. 452....Norman B. Hume, Master..............................
Ben H. Palmer, Senior Warden
Walter F . Kress, Past Master
Frank R. Walkup, Past Master
Bethlehem ····----·--·------No. 453....Victor L. Arenth, Master
Stanley W. Kerley, Senior Warden
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Charles A. Davis, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
John C. Painter, Past Master
Crocker .........................-No. 454....Ralph G. Riches, Master
Waker J. Gilnack, Junior Warden
Mattrup Jay Jensen, P. M. and Inspector
William Cairnie, Past Master
Anpus Campbell, Past Master
C. C. Chamberlain, Past Master
H. S. Johnson. Past Master
A. McN. McKeown, Past Master
J. Mitchell, Past Master
Walter C. Schenk, Past Master
Georg_e_ Watson, Past Master
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ..................No. 455.... Harold R. May, Master
Tames U. Gartin, Jr., Senior Warden
'I'homas W. Rollinson. Junior Warden
Earle B. Brehaut, Past Master
Ramona ...................- .....No. 457....Toseph C. Lortie, Senior Warden..................
Cecil C. Bechtel, Junior Warden
Jack E. Anderson, Past Master
Henry S. Orme .........-..No. 458.... Harvey E. Patten, Master.............:................
Hiram E . Reed, Senior Warden
Milton H. Lang, Past Master
William B. Mott, Past Master
Robert F. Shippee, Past Master
Riverbank ··---·····-·-·--·····No. 459.... Not Represented.

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
49.06
47.56
3.40

47.56
47.56
47.56

48.60

47.56
47.56

430
NameofLodp

No. of Lod&e

llepresentatiftS

431

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileqe Allowed

Mount Oso ·······-····-·--·No. 460....Philip Flelslg, Senior Warden.·-·······-·····-··- 5.78
Argonaut ·······-----···No. 461....William 0. Kuchlenz, Jr., Junior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, P. M. and Inspector
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Hoadley Johnson. Past Master
J. Denison McCue, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Arthur H. Schroeder, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Paul Revere ··-··-·····-··-No• 462.... Phillp Deovlet, Master
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, P. M. and Inspector
Nathan Danziger, Past Master
William A. Gerder, Past Master
Joel H. Springer, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Morgan Hill ···-··--···-···No. 463....Lee H. Buchheister, Master..·-··················-·- 5.52
Ral_ph M;. Moore, Senior Warden
Alta Vista ·····-·····-········-No. 464....S. Lawrence Clark, Master
Harry S. Melicker: Junior Warden
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
William E. Kidd, Past Master
Fred T. Williams, Past Master
Harry Wintersgill, Past Master
Center -·-·-··-···-·-··-·-No. 465....C. N. Johnson, Senior Warden.................-.. 23.76
Samuel E. Dollar, P. M. and lmpector........ 23.76
Libertas ..........................No...466....Harold R. DeTuncq, Master......·--········· 32.48
Morris R. Watson, Senior Warden
Walter W. Wasem, Junior Warden

Ra~:n?·J:~1orf.ecturer..............._......... 32.48

Hoyt Gregg, Past Master
Robert Myers, Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Master
Culver Oty ·····-·······-No. 467....Samuel A. Sinclair, Master............................ 47.56
Joseph J. Merrill, Senior Warden
Rockridgt --··..·-······--No. 468....Milton F. Henchell, Master
Baptiste Barthe, Senior Warden
Fred C. Dodge, Junior Warden
Ray Massingill, Past Master
Yorba Linda -·-··-··- ··-No. 469....Rex D. Hastings, Master................................ 47.56
Lincoln -·······---··-·No. 470....H. J. F. Willwerth, Master
Howard Y. Low, Junior Warden
Delta ---········..-····--·-No. 471....Frederick C. Broderick, Master...................... 6.86
Earle J. Francis, Senior Warden
Mervyn E. Hanshaw,
Assistant Grand Lecturer......·-···········-······ 6.86
Maui ·-··-·-·-··-··--No. 472....Henry M. Anderson, Senior Warden.·-······· 349.63
Eugene P. Jijine, P. M. and Inspector.-....... 349.63
Blythe --·····-·········-No• 473....Edgar L. Vertrees, Master..•...·- - ··- ··-·..-·-·· 60.60
David E. Eastin, Junior Warden
Victory -·········-··-·-- No. 474....Edwin C. Mathisen, Master
Theodore Robbins, Junior Warden
Max Alexander, Past Master
William C. Bird, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Muter
.
America ···-··············--_No. 475....C. Thomas Loudon, Master.........._.:·--········· 47.56
John T. Johnson, Senior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lod&e

Representatives

Mileqe Allowed

Coachella ·······-············-No. 476....William S. Wool, Senior Warden..............
Temblor ·············-........h.No. 477....Philip W. Witte, .Master·--··-····..·········-·····
Herschel W. Graves, Past Master
Thousand Oaks ···-·········No. 478.... Harold F. Hexner, Master
Gerd H. Meyer, Senior Warden
Richard W. Moulthrop, Junior Warden
Everett E. Esterly, Past Master
R. P. Wisecarver, Past Master
Golden Rule ··········-·-····--No. 479....Frank G. Freeman, Maater...·-···········-··········
Charles E. Bradley, Senior Warden
Oscar M. Swensen, Junior Warden
Fellowship .....- ..............No. 480....Howard C. Speulda, Master
Charles A. Davidian, Senior Warden
James A. Gallagher, Junior Warden
John F. A. Maguire, Past Master
Herman Zeller, Past Master
Mt. Davidson .............-.No. 481....Ward M. Nichols, Master
Daniel D. Rowlands, Senior Warden
Carl P. McCarthy, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Senior Grand Warden
Harold Meyer, Past Master
George A. Sohst, Past Master
Thomas F. Quinn, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith ..........No. 482....George A. McCarthy, Master_..................
Howard F. Hiltabidel, Senior Warden
Bell .............................- ...No. 483....George J. Wegerer, Master............................
Leroy F. Slocumb, Senior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Albert Pike ......................No. 484....George F. Corr, Master..................................
Robert L. Harman, Senior Warden
Ernest L. Putman, Junior Warden
James R. Gray, Past Master..._.....................
ChowchiIla ..........£ •••••- •.No. 485....William D. Galley, P. M. f:J Representative
Caledonia ........................No. 486....H. Guy Walford, Master................................
James L. Knudson, Senior Warden
Joseph B. Hart, Junior Warden
W. Waters Shugart, Past Master
Vallejo ............•...............No. 487....T. E. P. Woods, Jr .• Master..........................
T. P. Nikkel, Senior Warden
William T. Hilton, Junior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, P. M. and Inspector......
Alvin N. Hulse, Past Master
Frank A. Ward, Past Master
Patterson ................- ......No. 488....Walter Lee, RepresentaUve--.......................
East Bay ···············--···No. 489....Milton G. Horgan, Master
Allerton B. Ebert, Junior Warden
William S. Armstrong, Past Master
Corcoran ........................No. 490....John A. Wood, Senior Warden....................
Woodstock ....................No. 491 .... Prank E. Doherty, Master
Irving E. Ashton, Senior Warden
John E. O'Brien, Junior Warden
Alvin A. Horwege, Grand Tiler
Ralph W . Merrick, Past Master
Robert E. O'Brien, Past Master
Marion A. Powers, Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garvanza ...........:.._: .....-No. 492....Clyde W. McKinley, Master..........................
Leroy W. Burrell, Senior Warden

58.44
32.48

3.92

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
20.82
32.48

2.70
2.70
7.94

27.56

47.56

432
Name of Lodse

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

433

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Atascadero ...................._No. 493....Gaylord B. Thomas, Representative..............
W.W. B. Clayton, Past Master
Fred Hess, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
Oliver Tweeten, Past Master
Acorn ..............................No. 494....Theodore R. Arthur, Master
H. Stanley McDaniel, Senior Warden
C. Arthur Wilcox, Junior Warden
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Stewart B. Andrews, Past Master
E. Lloyd Hanson, Past Master
Rowland B. Reinlg, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswick, Past Master
Lebanon ..........................No. 495.... Herbert L. Schenk, Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Harold S. Stein, Past Master
Fremont ..........................No. 497....Clyde J. Kramer, Master
Thomas M. LivlnjJstone, Senior Warden
Melvin Oredsen, junior Warden
Stockton -·············-·········No. 498....Russell Grant Crowe, Master........................
Emmett Davis, Past Master
Capital City ....................No. 499.... John T. Bailhache, Master.·-··························
Frank D. Hicks, Senior Warden
Roosevelt ........................No. 500....Jerry J. Pastore, Master
Raymond H. Hakes, Senior Warden
Joseph Scannell. Past Master
Marvin Kavanaugh Cloyd, Past Master
Otto Carl Huth, Past Master
Westwood ·············-·······No. SOL.Wayne D. Gleason, Master..·-········-········-···
Gordon A. Parker, Senior Warden................
Harbor ·························-·No. 502.... Harry L. Muller, Master
H. Eugene Stevens, Senior Warden
Lloyd A. Vincent, Junior Warden
Emory M. Milner, Past Master
Point ·····················-····-···No. 503....Laveme L. L. Laux, Senior Warden
Colvin Winfred Hicks, Junior Warden
Seaside ················--·······No. 504....James W. Harris, Master................................
Reuhen-W. Cothern, Senior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P. M. and Inspector....
J. Everett Houser, Past Master
Edwin W. Wade, Past Master
Claude C. Landis, Past Master
William Richard Brown, Past Master
William T. Corbusler, Past Master
Silver Cord .................. _No. 505....Earl H. Merker, Senior Warden..........._.......
Olen F. Turner, P. M. and Inspector............
Mount Olive ·········--·····No• 506.... Ralph E. Heckler, Master..............................
Russell Northrup. P. M. and Inspector........
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
Alvin Wendt, Past Master
F.I Segundo ···········-·······No. 507....William M. Thiel, Senior Warden..............
Toppa ··························-··No. 508.... M. C. Franchini, Past Master
Benjamin Franklin ........No. 509....Leland E. Ballard. Senior Warden ........ ···-·
Warren L. Collins, Junior Warden
Walter B. Ror!ch, Past Master
Cupertino ·········-········-···No. 510....Louis John Paviso, Master..............................
Harry St. Claire Hawes, Senior V.T arden
Lloyd Marshall Minnich, Junior Warden
William Western Sharp, Past Master
Sunnyvale .....•................No. 51 L..Claude E. Walthrop, Representative............

26.18

6.86
7.24

32.28
32.28

47.56
47.56

49.82
49.R2
47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
3.64

3.50

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Palms ..............................No. 512....0rin P. Johnson, Muter-...................•..........
Charles 0. Harrier, Senior Warden
Cahuenga -·-·········--········No. 513.. _Charles R. Kelley, Masta'----·--·······-·-··Hal Anderson, Senior Warden
George K. Calvin, Junior Warden
Roy C. Bryan, Past Master............................
Charles L. Webber, Past Master
C. W. Murphy, Past Master
Roy Joyce, Past Master
Argonne ·······················-·No. 514....Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
David M. Taylor, Past Master
Vermont Square ............ No. 515....C. F. Gerould, Muter·--·····················-·····Laurence B. Ruppers, Senior Warden
Ford E. Jackson, Past Master
Taft ···-·····························No. 516....W. Dale Heath, Master..................................
Roland E. Burbeck, Senior Warden
Jennings E. Muir, P. M. and Inspector........
Walter H. Ireland, Past Master
Mount Vernon ................No. 517.... Raymond Guertin, Master
Edward J. Bird, Senior Warden
Paul H. Toroslan, Junior Warden
Harold W. Channel, Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
Walter L. Stobing, Past Master
La Jolla ················-···----·No. 518....Wayne Gordon Mullis, Junior Warden........
Euclid ·······-·····················No. 519....Claude R. Holt, Senior Warden....................
Roy G. Mead
Ionic ..........................._No. 520.... Leo Levine, Master.·-···············-·················-··
Claude Lenz, Past Master
Piedmont ···················-···No. 521.. .. Verle D. Vincent, Master
Porter Evans, Senior Warden
Auguste F. Peck, Junior Warden
Walter F. Schag, Past Master
Kenneth A. Rice, Past Master
Wilson E. Cline, Past Master
Sunrise ···-·······················No. 522 .... Hubert Leonard Hall, Master....................... .
John Harry Rutherford, Senior Warden
F. Worrell Rush, Junior Warden
Colin L. Wells. Past Master
BellBower ···················-···No. 523....Laurence Everett Querbach, Master............
.
Virgil L. Cole, Senior Warden
~all A. Pardee, Past Master
Catalina Island ..............No. 524....Harvey H. Cowell, Master---··-···················
La Vern M. Thomas, Senior Warden
Harold M. Warner, Past Master
George Washington ...... No. 525.... Chester M. Smith, Master
Carl Heier, Senior Warden
Lauryn H. Taylor, Junior Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City ·-·-·····-········--No. 526....Charles H. Israel, Master
Covenant ...•....................No. 527....Robert Hess Willison, Master........................
Orrin Charles Welch, Senior Warden
Beverly Hills ................•.No. 528....Lloyd W. Burris, Master................................
Stirman M. Meek, Senior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr.• Junior Grand Warden..
Joe Bookman, Past Master
Frederick A. Fox, Past Master
Joseph F. Hogan, Past Master

47.56
47.56
47.56

47.56
33.68
33.68

50.84
47.56
47.56

47.56

47.56
55.34

47.56
47.56
47.56

434
Name of 1odge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loclae

Representatives

435

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milaae Allowed

Loyalty -···--··········_No. 529....John J. Williams, Muter-·-·····-··············· ···
Arthur Linsk, Senior Warden
Lloyd Bass, Junior Warden
Edgar V. Steward, Jr., P. M. and Inspector
Joseph A Visger
Sun Garden .•_........__•.No. 530....Elbert Huntley Smith, Master........................
Erret Jesse Smith, Senior Warden
Herbert R. Hargrave, P. M. and Inspector..
Everett LaJoya Coyle, Past Master
Alexandria ·······-·-··-··-No. 531....Ralph C. McArthur, Master
Dorsey E. Mears, Senior Warden
Walter J. Chisholm, Junior Warden
Harry A Bolger, Past Mastl!r
Aaron A Arbogast, Past Master
Smyrna ......................._No. 532....H. W. Aspinall, Muter·-·-···-··-·-··-······- ·
Elton Barnes, Senior Warden
Guy Wharton, Junior Warden
Azure --··-·-···-·-No. 533....Eugene L. Piantoni, Junior Warden..._ ........
Forest Hill -·-·-···-·---No. 534....Dill H. Meese, Master
Rober H. Rolfe, Senior W arde1
James N. Rae, Past Master
Robert A. Mast, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ......No. 535_.Gordon N. McHenry, Master........................
George E. Seymour, Senior Warden
Kenneth Waite, Junior Warden
Edward J. Bllckfeldt, Past Master.....,..........
Seal Rock ··-··-··-··--·-No. 536....0tto Stewart, Master
Leonard J. Larison, Senior Warden
hn F. Yale, Junior Warden
ohn L. Webber, Past Master
arry H. Jacobson, Past Master
Frank Gedgate, Past Master
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Utopia ·-·····-··-·-··---·No· 537....Arthur Beard, Muter---···················
Walter J. Elder, Senior Warden
Verne V. Goode, Junior Warden
F. T. Nagle, Past Master
Frederick K. Ehrhardt, Past Master
George Lask, Past Master
Ascot ··········----···--No. 538.._Marvin Emanuel Loomis, Master............_
Jack Lloyd Allen, Senior Warden
Martin 0. Veland, P. M. and Inspector......
Belvedere ··-····-·-·__No. 539....Romulos A Anderson. Master..__..............
Melvin R. Maxey, Senior Warden
Edgar W. Randolph. Junior Warden
Queen Beach ..................No. 540....James W. Duncan, Muter......- ..................
Marshall W. Young, Senior Warden
Lawrence E. Stenger, Junior Warden
Fred S. J. Hancock, Past Master
Marvel Fairchild, Past Master
Henry Morse Stephens..No. 541....Paul R. Swanson, Master
Marvin D. Martin, Senior Warden
Lawrence E. Hawkins, Junior Warden
Robert H. Taylor, P. M. and Inspector
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Past Master
Russell H. Archerd, Past Master

47.56
47.56
23.76
23.76

8.68
49.46

4756

-

47.56

~

47.56

47.56
47.56
47.56

N1meoilodge

No. oi 1odge

Mileage Allowed

North Hollywood ..........No. 542....William C. Nevendorff. Master_................
Arthur W. Frishman. Senior Warden
Joseph R. Ferro, Past Master
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master
Signal ·---·----·-.No. 543....Joseph C. Cox, Maater.----·····-· ·-·Fred A. Adams, Senior Warden
Myron E. Roudebush, P. M. and Inspector..
Glendale --···--··---NO. 544....Walter L. Wood, Maater......·-···········-·····
Thomas B. Henry, Senior Warden
Jonathan ····---···~No. 545....James ScofBeld. Master
Roy C. Keyes, Senior Warden
Otto Waldorf. Junior Warden
Perry M. Spencer, P. M. and Inspector
san Gabriel ·-··-----·..No. 546....
ftc:i~:S~~;·w;;;d;~-···-···········-·
Charles A Arnold, Junior Warden
Arcadia ·-··-····__.No. 547....A. Melvin Foster, Muter.·--··········-······· -·
Harold Disney, Senior Warden
Triangle __,............__No. 548....Robert Vlcaro, Master..- ..............................
Stewart McArthur Burnett, Senior Warden
Harry Hamilton Kellogg, Junior Warden
Justice ··-·-·--············No. 549....William Reid Campbell, Master
Morgan Max Smith, Senior Warden
Rush Manbert, P. M. and Inspector
Andrew Burke, Past Master
William Willis Barry. Past Master
Earl Conner, Past Master
George David Hom, Past Master
Percy Vane Maury, Past Master
Emmett J\11es Pierce, Past Master
Seaport -·-·········-······-····No• 550....Walter dam Huber, Master
d
David Merle Boring, Senior War en
•
Warwick John Fellows, Junior Warden
Walter H. E. von Konsky. Grand Lecturer
John G. Wullschleg_er, Past Master
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
Lakeshore ··-·····---·-···No. 551....Donald S. Clark. Master
d
Wm. E. Yocum. Jr.. Senior War en
Ralph H. Moreland, Junior Warden
George 0 . Johnson. Past Master
Wm. E. Yocum, Past Master
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Howard S. Gerrish. Past Master
Lloyd W. Hanson, Past Master
Carl E. Joseph, Past Master

i:: !.

Semper Vireos ................No.
47.56

llepreseotativea

47.56

47.56

47.56
47.56

48.38
47.56
47.56

552....J<~
RH~~!~'.PJa~:!~~~~~---····················· 30.78
Benjamin Franklin Look, Senior Warden

Alexander Duncan, P. M. and Inspector...... 30.78
Educator ·-·······-·-··-·-No. 554....John K. MacKenzie, MaWsterrd
Fred R. Milam, Senior a en
Francis D. DeLong, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
White Pine ········-··-···-•No; 555....Leonard Collins Bigham, Senior Warden.... 35.82
Fairfax ····················-···-& 556....Lynn E. Barrnk,MaSster W d
·
C. Ray Buba s. enior ar en
Alfred C. Lee, Junior Warden
Lester C. Short. Past Master
Charles R. Banfield, Past Master

436
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Hermosa ·····h- ·········-···--No. 557....Arthur B. Oder, Senior Warden................-.. 47.56
Paul Thompson, P. M. and Inspector.......... 47.56
Point Firmin -·-··············No. 558.... Percy H. King, Master.................................... 47.56
Leo C. Finn, Senior Warden
Craftsmen ........................No ...559....0tto C. Bee, Master.-..................................... 47.56
J. Milton Shoquist, Senior Warden
A. E. Beach, Past Master
Plymouth ........................No. 560.- .George M. Bagley. Master
Eric F. Anderson, Senior Warden
John 0 . Reynolds, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master
Tames Gaston Disher, P. M. and Inspector
William G. Thumann, Past Master
Gerald E. Rhine, Past Master
Charles K Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego .............. No. 561....Robert F. Baker, Senior Warden.................. 50.84
.
Richard P. McClammy, Jr .. Junior Warden
Pyramid ..........................No. 562....Lawrence F. Buck, Senior Warden
Fred E . Wider, Junior Warden
South Park •.....................No. 563....Myron Taylor, Master.................................... · 47.56
William Green Foley, Senior Warden
Max Forrest Vail, Past Master
Foothill ............................No. 564....Elston N. Runyon, Master
Paul S. Davis, Junior Warden
Carl B. Munck, Past Master
Charles S. Doyle, Past Master
Ray A. Farley, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
Ben L. Miller, Past Master
West Adams .................. No. 565....Raymond Worsham, Senior Warden............ 47.56
David Johnson, Past Master
James A. Garfield ..........No. 566.... Gordon A. Boelter, Master.............................. 47.56
Milo C. Matticks, Senior Warden
Alfred 0. T. Opsahl. Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, Past Master.................... 47.56
Paul F. Mattoon, Past Master
Searchlight ......................No. 567 ....Kenneth L. Hemphill, Master..............·-······· 47.56
Harold L. Reynolds, Senior Warden
Otis L. Weaver, Junior Warden
Park Boulevard .............. No. 568.... Francis A. Roberts, Master
William F. \Villoughby, Senior Warden
Willis V. McBeth, Past Master
Chateau. Thierry ···-·······No. 569.... Neal W. Hayden, Master
John A. Marin, Senior Warden
Walter Beck, Junior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, P. M. and Inspector
David L. Babcock, Past Master
John E. Abbott, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570....Chester 0. Du11hi, Master
Chang Wah Lee, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
·Robert J, Martin, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck ...... No. 571.. .. George E. Smithbum, Master
Charles L. Briggs, Senior Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Asst. Grand Lecturer
Joseph A. Pivernetz, Past Master
George Jelten, Past Master
Herbert H. Hobson, Past Master
John Tilbury, Jr., Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

437
Mileaae Allowed

James Madison ..............No. 572.... Albert H. Farnes, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Jay D. Willard, Past Master
Hillcrest ··············-·····- ···No. 573.... Donald F. Parkin, Senior Warden
Brown Zarley, Junior Warden
Everett R. Ludden, Past Master
S. W. Hackett ............•...No. 574.... Chester E. Lees, Master.·-····························· 50.84
George E. Adams, Senior Warden
William M. Flenniken, Junior Warden
Fort Crook ·-··················-No. 575....Joseph Penick McGhee, Senior Warden...... 33.88
James .Clay Lowery, Junior Warden
Reginald Reynolds. P. M. and Inspector...... 33.88
Otto Stewart. Past Master
El Cajon Valley ............No. 576....James B. Carson, Master...................---········· 51.80
George M. Fleming, Senior Warden
Hugh D. Good. P. M. and Inspector............ 51.80
Sunnyside
No. 577 James M. West, Master.·-······························ 47.56
························
....Donald De ew, Senior Warden
Louis H. Mahler, P. M. and Inspector.......... 47.56
John A. Low, Past Master
Guy_ A. Tolle, Past Master
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master.................... 47.56
Progressive ...............- ..No. 578.... Maurice E. Calfee, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
William H. Durham, Past Master
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Perry R. Borden, Past Master
J. Howard Edwards, Past Master.................. 47.56
Warren G. Harding ......No. 579.... Harry J. Hltke, Master.................................... 7.24
·
J. Neil Wilson, Senior Warden
J. Louis Missall, Junior Warden
Carl W. Brainard, Past Master
Santa Maria ....................No. 580.... Not Represented.
•
No 581....Charles W. Grimm, Master............................ 3248
.
Security ·····-···-···············
•
Louis C. Fedrow, Senior Warden
Samuel R. Bauman, Past Master
·
Glen E. Thomas, Past Master
Rialto ....~.......................••No. 582....George W . Harrison, Senior Warden.......... 52.24
S. Moss, Senior Warden.................. 26.58
Wasco ······· ··········~ ·-· ····· N o • 583....Thomas
Roy S. DeVoe, Junior Warden
Fred Chas. Pritschke, P. M. and Inspector.. 26.58
Harding ..........................No. 584 ....William Robert Brown, Master......···--······· 47.56
Herbert Oswald Williams, Senior Warden
Anson McArthur, P. M. and Inspector........ 47.56
Louis Erwin Sage, Past Master
Manchester ....................No. 585 ....Gllbert J. Anderson, Master.................. .......... 47.56
Ed. Roberts. Junior Warden
Elmer R. Lotz, P. M. and Inspector.............. 47.56
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Master
Ralph C. Ferguson. Past Master
Garden Grove ......•.•.......No. 586....James C .Wallace, Master........d···················· 49.82
Valley Forge ·······-··-······No. 587....

~;~.~!J.iti;s
~~-~-~-~~--~· -·············· 47.56
Ben D. Barrett, Senior Warden

Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
Howard W . Harlan. Master.......................... 47.56
El Sereno ························No. 588....Richard
B. Ward, Senior Warden
Kauai
No 589....Theodore A. Blackstad, Senior Warden...... 349.63
.s······-······-··········-N
Lloyd E. Clark, Senior Warden.................... 50.38
Compas ·························· o.' 590....John
G. Weigle, Junior Warden

438
Name of Lodse

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodse

R.epusentadves

Escalon ···-·····················-No. 591....Robert M. Bookwalter, Master...·-·-···-········ 8.24
Bailey R. Townsend. Senior Warden
Merral Clark, Junior Warden
Arch T. Roberson, P. M. and Inspector........ 8.24
Tujunga -·········-·············No. 592....Dan C. Kaylor, Senior Warden.................... 47.56
All States ·······--············No. 593.... Charles Kimball, Master-·-·----··-··---·· 47.56
William 0. Neptune, Senior Warden
Service ···-···-····-·---No. 594....Charles J. Howe, Master_.-·..·---····..···-... 47.56
Morrison G. Foster; Senior Warden
Theodoric G. Linthicum, Junior Warden
Lewis M. Gibbs, Past Master
Ralph Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Grahm Bell..No. 595.... Elwood F. Herrin, Master.........--................. 47.56
Charles F. Casteel, Senior Warden
Fred Schunk. Junior Warden
Graham A. Backus, Past Master
Guardian ......................-No. 596.... Norman T. Bruber, Master.....- ........- ........ 47.56
Pearl Harbor .........- ....-No. 598....Lea Arnold, Master____........._ ..,_,__ 331.20
Carmelita ..........- ...........No. 599....C. Cecil Davis, Master___,.......- ............_ 48.60
Wesley C. Hertenstein, Senior Warden
Jay D. Rinehart. Past Master
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood .....................-.No. 600....Earl V. Yolton, Master....____ .................. __ 47.56
Edward Simhalenko, Senior Warden
Fred R. Cook, Junior Warden
Hillyard H. Bristo), Past Master
Edward M. Stitz, Paat Master
Grizzly ......................._No. 601....Grover F. Barnard. Master----··-..-........ 29.50
Melrose ......·-·-···-··-··-No. 602....Stewart G. Wall, Senior Warden...-........... 47.56
Talma~ G. Latham, Junior Warden
Dimond ...-.--...- ...........No. 603....Alfred E. Wheeler, Master
Frank Giles, Senior Warden
Jack M. Townsend, Junior Warden
George W. Shokal, Past Master
Irving S. Retels, Past Master
Jubilee --··-..--·-··-·No• 604....William C. Sackman, Master..·-··-..·-···-···· 49.82
Burdette L. Heinly, Senior Warden
John Kahler, Past Master
Harold G. Kragh, Past Master
Glassell Park -·-·--..No. 605....Robert D. Van Dusen. Master..·-·-·-...- .... 4756
Sojourner ..........- ..- ......No. 607....Grant Peterson, Senior Warden...........-....... 49.02
Paul A. Brown, Junior Warden
Granada ......·-··-..····-··No. 608....B. M. Rudd, Master........................................ 47.56
John J. Pierce, Senior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, P.M. 6 lnapector___ 48.60
Don S. Lemon, Past Master
Provident ..........- ...·-·-No• 609 ....Hassel Eugene Netherton, Master................ 7.24
Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master.............. 7.24
Elmhurst ._......___........No. 610.... Sid H. Brown, Master
Francis J. Caates, Senior Warden
William M. Sutherland, Junior Warden
Nathan Goldstone, Past Master
Canoga ........- ..............- ..No. 61L..Woodrow F. Wines, Master.......................... 47.56
Ralph H. Hansen, Senior Warden
George W. West, Past Master
Temple City ............... _.No. 612._0. C. Jordon, Senior Warden........................ 47.56
William N. Pedder, P. M. & Inspector........ 47.56
Three Pillars ............_ ...No. 613....Miles J. McClelland, P. M. and Inspector.... 7.24
John t. Bird, Past Master

439

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Larchmont ......................No. 614....W. Tom Almany, Jr., Master........................
Charles Morrill, Senior Warden
George P. Salm, P.M. & Inspector........... .
Newcomb Condee, Past Master
Roy Lineaweaver, Past Master
Hemet ......................_ ....No. 615....Bedford G. Cansler, Master._.._ ...................
Ray R. Bell, P.M. & Inspector......................
R. E. Dolley ....................No. 616....Fred B. Gray, Master..·-·-·······--········-.........
Ervin E. Glenn, Senior Warden
·
Big Bear ·•·············-···-·-No. 617.... A. Clair Pardee, Senior Warden..................
L. P. Boyle, Past Master
Southland ........................No. 618....0tis G. Prussel, Master...- .............................
William L. Maule, Senior Warden
John A. Crosbie, P. M. & Inspector..............
bonald H. Wilkins, Past Master
Neptune .......................-.No. 619....Donald E. Keith, Master.·-···-··-·····--···
Arnold M. Mueller, Senior Warden
Point Loma ..... _ ............N:o. 620.... William T. Toon, Senior Warden................
Charles T. Padgitt, Junior Warden
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
The Gardens ..................No. 621....Harry E. Cella, Master....................................
William B. McCulley, Senior Warden
Floyd Vandegrift, Past Master
Atwater ......................._No. 622....~MAr~:st~&:!fc:;;··w;;;:d;;;·····..···........

47.56
47.56
56.94
56.94
47.56
52.24
47.56
47.56
47.56
50.84
47.56
47.56

Menorah .................- ......No. 623....Clarence Wapner, Master·--··-·................ 47.56
Harry Warner, Senior Warden
Albert V. Youngs, P. M. & Inspector............ 47.56
George M. Warner, Past Master
Samuel J. Greenberg, Past Master
Fortitude ........................No. 624.... Alfred L. Costa, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................No. 625....Hugh S. Livie, Master......-·-·-·················· 47.56
LeRoy E. Ballard, Senior Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Johnl. Humble, Past Master
Chula Vista ·····-·-·-····...No. 626....Lud . Handley, Senior Warden.................. 50.84
Franklin H. Barnthouse, Junior Warden
Charles Edward Smith, Past Master
Lamanda Park ................No. 627....Chris B. Arntz, Master.................................... 48.60
Harry E. Pompey, Senior Warden
Truth ..........................._No. 628....Clarence Stidham Gallup, Senior Warden.. 47.56
William Robert McArthur, Junior Warden
Oskar Eugene Kopperud, Past Master
Fairview ....................._ ..No. 629....Harold C. Mudgett, Master............................ 47.56
Claude E. Andrews, Senior Warden
Ben L. Irwin. Past Master
John E. Comley, Past Master
Lester W. Burbank, Past Master
Ingleside ..........................No. 630.... Paul F. Schmeltzer, Master
Ray F. Price, Senior Warden
Edison K. Quick, Junior Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master
and Grand Secretary
Harry S. Walker, Past Master
John W. Powell, Past Master
Henry C. Clausen, Past Master
Adam H. Krage!, Past Master
Benevolence ....................No. 631....Harold W. Page, Master................................ 47.56
·
John R. Skeen, Senior Warden

440

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

441

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Name of l.od&e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed
Name of l.od&e

Arthur Shields, Past Master
Jerry F. Miller, Past Master
Normal Heights .............. No. 632....James Mavis Lollar, Senior Warden............ 50.84
Paul Edward Middlested, Junior Warden
Poinsettia ........................ No. 633....~h~~- ~r;!~r~~·s~~~~ew~~~............... 39.98
William D. Sparks, Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Deputy Grand Master.... 47.56
Guy S. Harts, Sr., P. M. & Inspector............ 39.98
Arthur T. Mead, Past Master
Conley L. LaForce, Past Master
Royace A. Maddox, Past Master
Victorville ......................No. 634....{;:e~t ~~~eE~:cl~oJ~!rct\r~~d~~-·············· 47.66
Riverside ....•................... No. 635....Roland Gautsche, Master................................
Charles H. Grace, Senior Warden
Henry W. Carl, Past Master
Harold F. Butterfield, Past Master
John Marshall ·-············No. 636....Glenn H. Harman, Master..·-·························
Charles D. Kidd, Senior Warden
Palisades ··················-····No. 637.... Demorest S. Wemple, Master........................
Byron H. Cox, Senior Warden
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock ....................No. 638.... Harold B. Ingold, Master
Harry M. Watchers, Senior Warden
David R. Lane, Past Master
Edward L. Kearney, Past Master
Composite ·······-···-········No. 639....Jack Lurie, Senior Warden............................
Philip H. Bloch, Past Master
Louis M. Bloch, Past Master
Verltas ............................No. 640.... Dale Jones, Master
Clarence Herbert Madison, Senior Warden
Reginald Austin Wiswell, Past Master
Oscar Wendel Norman, Past Master
Washington I. Kohnke, Past Master
tames A. Foshay ............ No. 641....Willlam Gillette, Jr., Senior Warden............
Cumbre ···-·-··············No. 642.... Leroy S. Pinkham, Master..............................
·
Laurence W. Pingree, Senior Warden
Bailey V. Winter, Junior Warden
Arthur Boone, P. M. & Inspector..................
William W. McKee, Past Master..................
Alta Loma ......................No. 643....William H. White, Master............................
Richard E. Middlekauff, Senior Warden
Lomita •.........•.................No. 644....Aubrey Matthews, Senior Warden............... .
A. F. E. Irwin ·-·············No. 645....Robert F. Hooper, Senior Warden................
Metropolitan ..................No. 646....

52.24

47.56
47.56

47.56

47.56
37.74
37.74
37.74
47.56
47.56
47.56

~~~~n~_ 1Ni~=· iu:!~:r.~~~~~---············ 47.56

Frank Everett, Past Master
Hawthorne ·-···················No. 647....Marcus A. Woodward, Senior Warden..... .
John A. Owen, P. M. & Inspector................ ..
Damascus •..•....................No. 648....Cectl H. Wilson, Master.....·-················..-·-···
Noel W. Roser, Senior Warden
John Bright, P. M. & Inspector......................
Florence .......................... No. 649....Fred W. Waitman, Master............................
Karl Green, Senior Warden
Willard N. Hughes, Past Master
La Brea ···-···················.. --No. 650.... R. Franklyn Burgan, Master..........................
·
Emil 0. Ostrom, Senior Warden
Russell Lee, Past Master

47.56
47.56
52.24
52.24
47.56
47.56

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileaae Allowed

John W. Swank, Past Master
Geo. W. Burch, Jr., Past Master
Jo. D. Hurd, Past Master
W. E. Robertson. Past Master
W. Jas. Mann, Past Master
Charles F. Laverty, Past Master
Menlo Park •..•................No. 651..•• Max R. Boyens, Master--··-······-··--······
David Wright, Past Master
Crescenta Valley ............ No. 652....William Lewis Jordan, Senior Warden........
Fontana ·····--········--·--No. 653.. _Emest Howell k.eheley._ Senior Warden......
Jordan --··················-------No. 654....Herman L. Feenstra, Master..........................
Leonard Gross, Past Master
Monte Vista .................... No. 655....John Edward Filbert, Master.......- .................
Lowell Dean Porter, Senior Warden
Citro) ................................No. "656....Vincent Edward Jaster, Senior Warden......
J. D. Spreckels ..............No. 657.... A. Allen Porteous, Senior Warden................
John T. Martin. Past Mastet
Livingston ......................No. 658....Gordon H. Winton, Representative..............
La Habra ........................No. 659 ....Roger J. Siebe, Senior Warden......................
Baldwin Park ................No. 660....Earl Burton Young, Senior Warden............
Malta ···-············· ..······-··No. 661....Arden R. Manning, Senior Warden ..............
Henry Knox ....................No. 662.... Nelson Richard Smith, Mastel'...................._
Samuel Roy Howell, Senior Warden
Alfred Fairhurst Baughn, Junior Warden
Paul Rainey Nichols, Past Master
Ojai ··---·······················-No. 663....B. Glen Wear, Master....................................
M. Arthur Waite, Junior Warden
Kaweah ............................No. 665....Dolpho H. Beam, Representative..................
Reseda ............................No. 666....Horace W. Leslie, Master..............................
Charles T. Forbes, Senior Warden
Lloyd E. Parker, Past Master
Comellius Davis, Past Master
William K. English, Past Master
Meridian .......................... No. 667....Clarence E. Glaze, Master..........................
Otto A. Raddatz, Senior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master..............
Frank W. Raddatz, P. M. & Inspector........
San Gorgonio .............. _No. 668....W. E. R. Crawford, Senior Warden..........
Ellis A. Nighswonger, Junior Warden
John P. Jarman ..............No. 669....Earl B. Woodruff, Master............................. .
Nels H. Johnson, P. M. & Inspector..............
Greenleaf ...................-.No. 670....Grover A. Ahman, Master.-...........................
Harry A. Swanqer, Senior Warden

~.1::!~e~~:~~--~~~~~~----·-----

San Clemente ................No. 671....t::;
.. ··
Laguna Beach ................No. 672....Kelvin A. Bailey, Master.-.......................
Francis Callahan, Senior Warden
Lewis L. Lemieux, Junior Warden
W. Ben Sorrells, P. M. & Inspector..............
Far West ....................-No. 673....George E. Crocker, Master
•
Caspar A. Bachtold. Senior Warden
N. W. Anderson, Past Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Earl B. Myers, Past Master
Walter Lubchenko, Past Master
Los Cerritos ....................No. 674....Morris Prell, Master........................................
Harold Wachman, Senior Warden
Arthur Sissons, Past Master
Modesto ..•................. __..No, 67S....Merle E. Frantz, Master ..............................
Jess B. C.Over, Senior Warden

3.28
47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
49.70
50.84
18.24
49.42
47.56
47.56
47.56

35.12
27.38
47.56

47.56
47.56
47.56
54.66
3.92
3.92
48.78
52.32
50.64
50.64

47.56
8.32

442
Name of Loclae

. PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loclae

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Willow Glen ········-·······No. 676.... Robert A. Folden, Muter-···-·····················
Frank N. Lon~ Senior Warden
Carl J. Deiss, unior Warden
Thornton D.
ebster, Past Master
Liberal Arts ··-··-····-·--No. 677....William P. Warmack, Muter·-···-·······-····
Robert W. Flesch, Senior Warden
Lawrence B. Rayl, Junior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master..........
Elvin C. Drake, P. M. & lnspector..·-··-·····Howard M. Wilson, Past Muter
Frank H. Renisch, Past Master
Altadena ···-·····-····-········No. 678....~:~~cl ~~W~~';~Yse~W;d;;;··· ..········
Verner A. Jacobson, Past Master
Canby Cross ··········-······No. 679.... V. G. Reinmiller, Master.....·-························
Burris Short, Senior Warden
Carmel ·······-···-····-········No. 680.... Harold R. Lewis, Master..............................
James R. Zuck, Past Master
Gordon C. Browne, Past Master
Dos Palos ..................__ No. 681....Rodney R. Roberts, Master.-.........................
Kenneth H. Easter, Senior Warden
Richard D. Crowe, Junior Warden
Glenn C. Holmes, Past Master................- ..
Barstow -----···-·····-No. 682....Waite Hartley Davis, Senior Warden...... _
Dorse K. Fissell, Past Master
Redwood Empire -········-No. 683....Evart C. Littlefield, Master...·-······················
Sterling R. Knapp, Senior Warden
Trona ---·-···-···-·..No. 684....Frank H. Wells, Master................................

3.92

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
43.22
10.08
11.54
25.26
45.20
22.76
43.62

~~fE. lfy~~::~~--~-~~~~---············ 48.60

San Marino ········-·-··-···No. 685....
Robert C. Betty, Senior Warden
Wm. J. Williams, Past Master..................- ..
George R. Friederick. Past Master
William B. McKesson, Past Master
Leo E. Sievert, Past Master
AJbany --··-·-················No. 686.... Cecil E. Boekenoogen, Master
Anthony D. Bertino, Senior Warden
Frank R. Zamaroni, Junior Warden
Ambrose R. Graham, Past Master
Frank S. Spires, Past Master
William R. Ross, Past Master
Vista ···-··············-··-··-·No. 687....Lewis H. Field, Senior Warden....................
Oildale ··----·-·-·--No. 688....Willlam Frederick Gamble, Master·-·····-·
Ralph Eikema, Senior Warden
Edmond Day_Pruett, Junior Warden
Pohona ·······-··-·······-·····No. 689....0ren Dari Abbott, Senior Warden..............
San Carlos ···-·············-No. 690.... L. S. Parker, Master
E. R. Crawford, Junior Warden
Indian Wells Valley ...... No. 691....Robert H. Dudley, Muter-···-·····················
0. D. Kirby. Senior Warden
Howard S. Clark, Junior Warden
Travelers ···············-·-···No• 692....Harry D. Brainard, Master............................
Thomas E. Gentry, Senior Warden
J. H. D. Bassett, Past Master
Palm Springs ··-·········-··No. 693....Herbert Samson, Master:...............................
Gerald K. Sanborn, Senior Warden
Fred A. Morrison, Junior Warden
William P. Leonesio, Past Master
Maurice H. Llbott, Past Master

48.60

54.40
32.48
30.84
40.62
7.24
50.46

Name of Loclae

No. of Loclae

11.epresentativa

443
Mileage Allowed

San Antonio ·-····----···No· 694....Robert Collier, Master -··-······-······ · -· 47.56
Fred S. Kennedy, Senior Warden
Dudley E. Goddard, Past Master
Richard F. McGurdy, Past Master
Meudell ·--··-··----·--No. 695....Dewey Albert Horton, Sr., Muter........... _. 32.48
Admiral Dewey Sprayberry, Senior Warden
Dewey A. Horton, Jr., Junior Warden
Crossroads ···········-·········No. 696.... Harry I. Meek, Senior Warden.................... 50.84
Robert L. Harper, Junior Warden
Earle F. Sheffield, Past Master
St. Elmo --··-·······--·-··.No. 697.... Edmund Oscar Btirger, Master
John Wright Haugh, Past Master
William D. Stephens .... No. 698.... Robert M. McCallum, Master..................-- 47.56
I. Earl Sage, Senior Warden
Wybren Hiemstra, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Loomis, Past Master...·-············- 47.56
Ralph G. Ritchie, Past Master
John X. Turk, Past Master
Bixby Knolls -······-···-·No. 699....Herbert Lee Chase, Muter..................·-·····- 47.56
Casimir Chrostowski, Senior Warden
Mason C. Jurgensen, Junior Warden
Perry H. Barrett, i:;>ast Master
Ponderosa ......................No. 700....Edgar Theodore Ford, Senior Warden........ 23.76
Paul Muller Porter, Junior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley ........No. 701.... Willard L. Eberhard, Representative............ 35.16
Rosemead ···-···-··-·····--No. 702....Bert W. Pickens, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Westchester ________No. 703....Louis Melvin Hall, Senior Warden............... 47.56
James Lowell Miles, Past Master
Orinda ·---···············-····No. 704....i':id:wGCa~h~;:ii: ~:,~.\v;;d~·············· 1.60
•
Wilbur D. Crosby, Past Master..........·-······· 1.60
EI Cerrito _____.......No. 70S....Joseph Earl Van Etten, Master
John Lowe Wixon, Senior Warden
Gene Cover, Otwell, Past Master
Hunters Point Naval ....No. 706....Cecil Franklin Gill, Master
Alvie Albert Larkin, Junior Warden
Lake Tahoe ··············--··No. 707.... H. Ralph Willard Bulkley, Master..........·-··· 25.56
Richard E. Thompson, Senior Warden
Louden Franktin Hillhouse, Junior Warden
Seafaring --·········--··-No. 708....Henry Kossuth Ueister, Master............·-····· 49.64
Loremo ____ __No. 709....William F. Dewey, Master
Charles H. Sedam, Senior Warden
Anacapa -······-·-··········No. 710.... Robert L. Wilcox, Sentor Warden................ 40.78
Lewis A. Pugh, Junior Warden
Rim of the World ······--No. 711....Thos. E. Schrey, Master................................ 52.24
James M. Soutar, Senior Warden
Harry Pay Smith, Junior Warden
Los Altos ...~·-····-··-·-···No. 712....William Edward Jones, Master.................... 3.28
E. C.H. Carson, Senior Warden
H. Sterling Bailey, Junior Warden
Castro Valley ···--·········No. 713....Carl F. LaVo, Master
John B. Barrone, Senior Warden
Wallace D. Hanell, Junior Warden
Blue Lakes ...............- ..._No. 714.... Hans E. Olsen, Master
rd
Carl V. Schwab, Senior Wa en
M. Frank Shumaker, Junior Warden
Magnolia Park ···········-··No. 715....Charles Wolfard Selig, Muter...................... 47.56

444

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Contin ued

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

Charter

With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5951
lod9e

No.

I California - - ···············- 1
2 Western Star •............... 2
3 Tehama ·-····················· 3
4 Benicia ··-·······-············· S'
S' Tuolumne -··············· S
6 Corinthian -················· 9
7 San Jose •.••.•.................. IO
S Yount·······-·················· · I2
9 Nevada ·-··-··················· I3
IO Temple -·-·-··············· i4
l I Eureka ·-····-·-············· i6
I 2 La Parfaite Union ......•. 17
I 3 Mountain Shade .......... IS
I4 San Joaquin ...•.............. I9
IS' Washington - ··············· 20
I6 Hawaiian -·············-··· 2I
I 7 Occidental -·················· 22
IS Madison ·······-··············· 23
I 9 Mariposa ·-··················· 24
20 Georgetown -·············- 2 S'
2 I El Dorado -·················· 26
22 Trinity -···-··············- 27
23 Golden Gate ................ 30
24 Gold Hill ··················-- 32
2S' Ophir ·-····--·········-····· 33
26 San Diego ·- ················· 3 S'
27 Howard •....................... 37
2S Santa Cruz .................... 3S
29 Sacramento ················- 40
30 Martinei ··········-······-··· 41
3 I Los .Angeles ··············-·· 42
32 Hiram ·······-················· 43
33 Mount Moriah .............. 44
34 Crescent ·················-···· 4S'
3S' Texas ·······················-··· 46
36 Porbestown .................. S'O
37 Illinoistown ·-········-·- n
3S Suisun ·······-··········-····· S'S'
39 Volcano ···················-··· S'6
40 Santa Rosa .................... S'7
41 Union .........................• S'S
42 Gravel Range ···········-··· S'9
43 Plumas ..................•••..... 60
44 Live Oak ·-··················· 6I
4S' Natoma ..................... _ 64
46 .Amador ..........•.........•... 6S'
47 Forest ···················-······· 66
4S Morning Star ...............• 6S
49 Enterprise ············-······ 70
m Bear Mountain ·········-··· 76
n Calaveras .............••......• 7S
n Humboldt .............•••..•. 79
S'3 lone ................•.•••.••••...• 80
H Yolo···········-·····-·-·- BI
S'S' Vesper ···········-····-····- 84
f6 Naval ···············-··········· 87

Chart•

Atnl.

lod9e

Mem.

luued

Fees

FHs

Dua

San Francisco ........ ism
Shasta .................... ism
Sacramento ............ iSS'O
Benicia .................. is S'O
Sonora ···········-······· is S'O
Marysville -············ ism
San Jo8e ................ iSS'O
Napa •..................... isS'i
Nevada City .......•.. isn
Sonoma ................•• isn
.Auburn ..............•... isn
San Francisco ........ iSS'2
Downieville ............ isn
Stockton ·······-······· isn
Sacramento ............ 1SS'2
Honolulu, T. H .•... isn
San Francisco ........ is S'2
Grass Valley .......•.. isn
Mariposa ................ isn
Georgetown .......... isn
Placerville .............. isn
Weaverville ............ isn
San Francisco ........ iSS'3
Lincoln ·············-··· isn
Mur~y'a ·········- ····· i8S'3
San iego .............. isS'3
Yreka .................... isH
Santa Cruz .............. iSS'4
Sacramento ............ iSS'4
Martinez ·-············· isH
Los .Angeles .......... isH
El Dorado .............. isH
San Francisco .......• iSH
Creicent City ....•... isH
San Juan ···-··········· lSH
Forbestown ··········- iSH
Colfax .................... isH
Suisun ..................•. iSS'S'
Volcano ..............•... isH
Santa Rosa ............ iSH
Sacramento ..........•. iSH
Camptonville .......... iSH
Quincy ···········-····· isH
Oakland ................ isH
Folsom ..................•. iSH
Jackson ................•. isH
.Alleghany ....•......... isH
Stockton ................ isH
Yuba City .........•..•. isH
.Angel'• Camp ........ isH
San .Andreas .......... isH
Eureka ···-··············· iSH
Ione ....•.........•........• i8S'6
Yolo ·- ··················· iSS'6
Red Bluff·····-········· iSS'6
Vallejo ·······-········· iSS'6

100
S'O

20.00
6.00
io.oo

I2 S'46
i1 I49
I2 76i
I2 2IS
I2 246
I2 4is
I2 S'33
I2 m3
I2 I69
I2 202
i1 330
lS' 119
49
I2
I2 770
I2 773
I2 47S'
IS 72S'
I2 3I7
I2 i9S
S'7
I2
I2 2S'7
I2 I27
I2 6S'O
I2 110
7S'
I2
I2 977
I2 24S'
i2 494
I2 73I
I2 38I
I2 7S'2
SS
I2
I2 4I6
I2 I77
S'2
I2
i2 I07
92
i1
12 213
62
I2
I2 S'99
I2 7I9
6S
I2
I2 204
I2 I040
12 214
Sl
12
29
12
12 630
12 313
73
12
12 116
lS 444
SS
12
S6
I2
12 229
12 11S4

Location

445

CRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

7S'
7S'
7S'
S'O
7S'
60
S'O
S'O
S'O
IOO
S'O
so

7S'
17S'
100
7S
S'O
S'O
7S'
12S'
60
S'O
S'O
so
S'O
so

7S'
7S'
70
7S'
100
S'O
S'O
S'O
S'O
7S'
S'O

7S'
7S'
S'O
I2S'

7S'

2.00
S'.00
2.00
lS'.00
10.00
10.00
2S'.OO
S' .00
S'.00
S'.00
10.00
1.00
4.00
1.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
6.00
1.00
S'.00
I0.00
S'.00
I0.00
2.S'O
2S'.OO
S'.00
S'.00

S'O
S'O
S'O
so
S'O
S'O
SS'
S'O
S'O
S'O
IOO

S' .00
3.00
10.00

7S'

I0.00

bera

No.

S'7 Rose's Bar ·····-············· S9
S'S North Star ..................•• 91
S'9 St. Helena ·············-····· 93
60 Henry Clay ·- ····-····-- 9S'
6I Hornitos •...................•. 9S
62 Yosemite ····-················ 99
63 Clay - ........•.:...•.- ....•••.. IOI
64 Oroville -···-····-·······-I03
6S' Lexington -·-·········- -I04
66 .Arcata --··········- ·····-·· l 06
67 Pajaro -······-·········-·110
6S Chico ---··-····-·---1I1
69 Summit -··---····--112
70 Eden -·--···--·····- ··-1I3
71 Concord ·-····-·-····-117
72 Fidelity ......................-120
73 .Alamo --···--······--122
74 Sotoyome ····-······---123
7S' Table Mountain ······--I24
76 La Payette ..- ................ 126
77 Hermann ·····-·····-···--127
7S Visalia --··-- ········-.:-\2S
79 Nicolaus ·······-········-l29
SO Woodbridge -·····--Ul
SI Sincerity -······-·-····-·-lU
S2 Vacaville ··················--134
S3 Valley ·······--······-·--·•13'
S4 Pacific ···-······-·-···-136
SS' Crockett ·········- ·······---139
S6 Curtis --······-·········-140
S7 Grafton ·······-·········•····141
SS Franklin ·-·····-·--·---14S
S9 Oriental -···-··=--·---144
90 Vitruviua ······-·······-14f
9I .Abell ·············-····-···~146
92 Eel River •....•.•....•••••--147
93 Lassen --·····-·-·······--149
94 Molino - ····-········--,..1 S'O
9S' Woodland ....- ..........-1S'6
96 Keystone -···-·······-··16I
97 Harmony ··················-·· 164
9S Excelsior ·············-·-166
99 .Alameda --·-··---167
100 Redwood City .............. 168
IOI Mission ·-······-··-····--169
I02 Elk Grove - ·----173
I03 Drytown ······-······-174
I04 .Antioch - ····- - - --l7S'
lOS' Phoenix ---··--178
106 Mendocino ···--··-···-179
107 Petaluma ·······-·······-180
IOS Russian River ..........••- ..181
109 .Arbuckle ·-·········---182
110 aear Lake ············--181
I 11 Sierra Valley •.•..••..._ .. 184
112 Claiborne ······-··········--l8S'
113 Evening Star ·-····---186
114 Keith · - - - - - - 1 1 7
I IS' Oakland ·······-- ····---188

Location

Issued

Smartville .............• ISS'6
Fort Jones •............. 1SS'6
St. Helena .............. IS%
Sutter Creek .......... 1SS'6
Homitos ................ ISS'6
Merced .•................ 1SS'6
Dutch Flat .............. 1SS'6
Oroville .................. 1SS'6
El Monte·-············· 1SS'6
.Arcata .................... 1SS'7
Watsonville ...........• ISS'7
Chico ·············-······· ISS'7
Knight's Perry ........ ISS'7
San Leandro .......... 1SS'7
1SS'7
Sacramento
ISS'S
San Francisco
Walnut Creek •....... ISS'S
Healdsburg ·-········· ISS'S
Paradise ·············-··· ISS'S
Sebastopol .............. IS S'S
San Francisco ........ lSS'S
Visalia .................._ 1SS'9
Wheatland ··········- 1SS'9
Woodbridge .........• ISS'9
Greenville •............. 1SS'9
Vacaville ....•........... ISS'9
Linden .................... 1S60
San Francisco ........ 1S60
1S60
San Francisco
Cloverdale .............. 1S60
Knighta Landing .... 1S60
Courtland ·-··········· 1S61
San Francisco ·····-· IS6I
Bloomfield .............. 1S61
Ukiah ·······-··········· IS61
P ortuna ··-·············· 1S61
Susanville .............. IS62
Tehama ·······- - ······· 1S62
Woodland .............. 1S63
Milton ·······-··········· 1S63
Sierra City ·····-······· 1S64
San Francisco -····· 1S64
Centerville -··-··· .. ·· 1S64
Redwood City •....... 1S64
San Francisco ······- 1864
Elk Grove ···-········· 1S6S'
Plymouth ·-··········· 1S6S'
.Antioch ·····-········ IS6S'
San Bernardino ...... 1S66
Mendocino ............ 1866
Petaluma ................ 1866
Windsor ................ 1866
.Arbuckle ···- ··········· IS67
Lower Lake ............ IS67
Sierraville .............. I S67
Point .Arena ........ _ IS67
Etna Mills ·········-·- IS67
Gilroy -····-··-····- IS6S
Oakland ................ 1S6S

AfRI.

Mern·

Fees

FHS

Dues

be rt

S'O

S'.00
S'.00
1.00

12
I2
1 S'
12
I2
12
I2
I2
I2
12
lS'

34
63
126
S2
101
4S'2
91
33S
HI
279
3SS'
463
4S'
406
353
S'S'9
397
ISS'
I 7S'
2IS
20S
H6
IOS
I74
92
213
92
61S'
S'97
70
110
I3S
3SI
I24
2SI
232
2I9
16S
279
29
21
H7
I70
S'61'
713
I40
43
33I
66I
12S'
337
116
Sl
74
40
62

S'O
S'O

60
50
S'O
S'O
S'O
J S'O

10.00
S'.00
1.00

S'O

7S'
7S'
S'O
7S'
7S'
100
7S'

7S'
SO
S'O
7S'
7S'
S'O
S'O
100
7S'

10.00
S' .00
I0.00
lS'.00
S'.00
1.00
I0.00
S'.00
S'.00

S'O

12.00

100
7S'
S'O
S'O
7S'
100
S'O

2S'.OO
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
2S'.OO
1.00

20.00

S'O
S'O

60
S'O

1.00

7S'

2. S'O
S' .00
20.00

S'O
S'O
S'O
S'O

S'.00
1.00

S'O
S'O

S'0.00
10.00
S' .00
5.00
S'.00
S' .00

100
IOO
S'O
7S'

S'O

SO

7S'
S'O

S'O
S'O
S'O

S' .00
1.00
I0.00
S'.00

S'O
S'O

7S'

2.00
1.00

12
12

I2
12
lS'
IS'
lS'
12
I2
I2
lS'
12

I2
12
12
I2
12
IS'
I2
I2
IS
IS'
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
12

12
I2
lS
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
12

I2
12
I2
12
I2

n

1S2
9S'9

446

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Loella•

No.

116 Northern Light ·-···--·190
117 Marin -··-·---····-···191
118 Santa Barbara -··-····-192
119 Ferndale ··-··-·-----193
120 Mountain View --194
121 Buckeye
19f
122 San Simeon ----196
123 Wilmington ----198
124 Hartley
-199
l 2S' Truckee -····-·-·----200
126 Silveyville --··-···-201
127 Pentalpha ---······-··202
128 Confidence --·····-··--203
129 Salinas
130 Olivet ----···---20f
131 Stanislaus ···---·---206
132 .Anaheim ------207
133 Rio Vista ·······-····---208
13-4 King David•s -·-·--209
lH Friendship -···--··210
136 San Benito
-211
137 So. San Francisco ---212
138 San Buenaventura _ ..21-4
139 Oak Grove _ _...;___2u
1-40 Doric ····-·--·----216
1-41 Monterey -·-·---217
1-42 Mosaic ·-··········-····-·····218
1-43 Speranza ltaliana --····-219
1-4-4 Downey ---···-220
1'4f Inyo - - - - · · - - 2 2 1
146 Roseville ---·---222
1-47 Bakersfield _
22-4
1-48 Brooklyn ·-·------22f
1-49 San Mateo ---··-226
l fO .Athens -··------228
1fl Solano -·-----229
lf2 North Butte ____•.230
1f3 Covelo ---------231
l f-4 Janesvi1le -··-·-·-··-232
l ff Calistoga ·····-···---2U
l f6 Hope - - - - - - - 2 3 4
1f7 Surprise Valley -----23'
lf8 Hill's Perry -----236
l f9 Guadalupe ______237
160 Colusa -···-----2'40
161 Santa .Ana -----241
162 Magnolia -·-·--242
163 Eucalyptus ·-----243
16-4 .Alcatraz - · - - · - 2....
16f Laurel -···--------24f
166 Pomona -····-···---·-··2'46
167 Fresno -------247
168 .Alturas -·-------248
169 .Adin ······--·---··2f0
170 Landmark----·-2fl
171 Reading -·
2f<f
172 Welcome -··----2ff
173 Lodi -··-·-1'6
l?-4 Penrhyn -···----··-2f8

-···--···-·-™

Location

Chart•
luued

Millville .................. 1868
San Rafael ······-·-··· 1868
Santa Barbara ·-····· 1868
Ferndale ....•........... 1869
Mountain View-·- 1869
Winters ·-····--·-··· 1869
Cambria-·-·-····-··· 1869
Wilmington·-···-···· 1869
Lakeport ·-·-·········· 1869
Truckee ·-····-········· 1869
Dixon ·············-····· 1869
Los .Angeles ····-··- 1869
Castroville ..........•..• 1869
Salinas ······-····--- 1869
Corning ·-·-·····-··· 1870
Modesto -············· 1870
.Anaheim -·-······-··· 1870
Rio Vista--··-···- 1870
San Luis Obiapo ··- 1870
San Jose -············· 1871
Hollister ·····-····-·- 1871
San Francisco --- 1871
Ventura ·-···---··· 1871
.Alameda ................ 1871
San Francisco .......• 1871
Monterey···-··-······· 1871
Livermore •............• 1872
San Francisco -····· 1872
Downey·-···-····-··· 1872
Independence -·-·· 1872
Roseville ·-·---- 1912
Bakersfield·-·· · - - 1873
East Oakland
1873 .
San Mateo --·-··--· 1873
Davis ···---·····-···- 1873
Vallejo .................. 1873
Gridley -····-·-····- 1873
Covelo -·--·-···- 1874
Janesville --··-··-·· 187-4
Calistoga -----···· 187-4
Beckwourth -···-·· 1874
Cedarville -··········· 187-4
Newman ····-·--····· 187-4
Santa Maria-- -·- 1874
Colusa -···-···-·····- 187'
Santa .Ana .............. 1876
Santa Barbara --- 1876
Hayward - ··········- 1876
West Oakland ........ 1877
Willows - --··········· 1877
Pomona -···-····-·- 1877
Fresno -·····-··········· 1878
.Alturas ···---··--·- 1878
.Adin ··-···-···-·-·-· 1878
Esparto --··- -·- 1879
Redding ·--··-·- 1879
Lemoore --·-·- 1879
Lodi - ·-·······-··· 1879
Penrhyn -··-·····-· 1880

i:..
fO

Aflll.

Mi:.. D- berl

f .00
10.00

12
89
100
l f HO
7f
lf 3-42
fO
12 101
7f
12 333
7f
f.00 12 137
fO
12 112
100
12 f62
fO
3.00 12 2-40
60
f .00 12 110
60
f .00 12 1fl
100 20.00 lf HO
7f
12
47
7/f
12 f2f
fO
12 110
7f
12 603
fO
1.00 12 -429
7f
12 lfO
80
1.00 12 -410
7f
f.00 12 716
fO
1.00 12 160
7f 10.00 12 261
7f
12 397
7f
1.00 12 637
100 10.00 l f f06
7f
l f 2f6
fO 10.00 12 182
100
12 320
100
12 Hl
.,.0
f.00 12 16f
fO
2.fO 12 Hf
100
lf 787
7f
l f 608
100
18 -477
fO
12 16-4
7f 10.00 12 f80
fO
12 197
67
fO
12
7f
1.00 12 1-46
fO
f.00 12 112
fO 10.00 12 126
73
fO
1.00 12
fO 10.00 12 lff
7f 10.00 12 lff
fO 10.00 18 lf7
7f
1.00 12 f80
7f
lf 398
fO
12 -439
7f 10.00 12 6-46
fO
f.00 12 230
fO
2.00 12 397
80
3.00 12 688
fO
1.00 12 178
fO
2.00 l f 100
fO
1.00 12 l lf
fO
f .00 12 212
7f
12 20-4
fO
12 37-4
fO
3.00 12 1ff

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
l.od9e

No.

17f Evergreen ···-·-············2f9
176 King Solomon'• -·········260
177 Tuscan · - -··--261
178 Lompoc ---·-·····-262
179 Hesperian --·-·-264
180 Orland --------26f
181 North East --·---266
182 Galt
-267
183 Durant - - - - - - 2 6 8
18-4 Olive Branch ---····-269
18f Snow Mountain ---271
186 Pasadena ---·-········-272
187 .Anchor ---·-···-·-273
188 .Arroyo --··-····-274
189 Oakdale ·--··--27f
190 Selma ·-···------277
191 Southern California ...-278
192 Hanford - - - - - 2 7 9
193 Madera ---·----280
19-4 Mount Shasta ·-·-·-····281
19f Callayomi ~-------282
196 South West ·-····-····--283
197 San Miguel - -··---28f
198 Paso Robles -··-··-286
199 Winnedumah -·-·--·-287
200 Maxwell ··················-···288
201 Elsinore -·-·-··-·········289
202 East Gate ··-·-····-··--290
203 Santa Paula ·-···-···--·291
20-4 Los Gatos -·-··-·--·292
20f Orange Grove ........- ..293
206 Traver - - ·· --294
207 Mt. Jackson ·-··-··--29f
208 Silver Gate -·······-296
209 Dunsmuir -·-----297
210 Liberty ·-···--·-······--299
211 Redlands ·-····-····-····-300
212 Ontario -····-···---··-301
213 Santa Lucia ·············---302
21-4 Porterville -··--··---303
2lf Reedley -·------304
216 .Azusa - - - · - - - 3 0 f
217 .Ashlar ·-·····-···········--306
218 Santa Monica -··--307
219 Monrovia --··-··-·308
220 Delano -·--····-__;..309
221 Sieeon
·---310
222 Loe Banos --··--312
223 Tehachapi ·--···--US
22-4 Temescal --·-----31-4
22f Norwalk ·---········-Sl f
226 Sanger ·----···--U6
227 Pallbrook - - - - 3 1 7
228 Emmanuel -···--·--··318
229 Hollenbeck -··-··--319
230 South Gate ·--·---320
231 .Alisal · - - - · -- -321
23 2 .Alhambra -·--·--322
233 Whittier ·-------323

Location

Chart.
luued

Riverside ..............•• 1880
San Francisco •....... 1880
Williams ................ 1880
Lompoc ......•........... 1881
Santa Maria -·····-··· 1882
Orland ·····-········- 1882
Port Bidwell - ····· 1882
Galt ........................ 1883
Berkdey ··-···-······· 1883
Tulare ·-····-··········· 1883
Stony Ford ..•......... 188-4
Pasadena ·--··-······· 188-4
Comptt>n .•.........•.... 188-4
.Arroyo Grande ...... 1884
Oakdale .................. 1884
Sdma -··-----······- 188f
Loe .Angeles .......... 188f
Hanford -···-······- 188f
Madera -·-············· 188 f
.Anderson ·-·········- 1886
Middletown ·-········· 1887
National City --···· 1887
San Miguel ··----~-- 1887
Paso Robles ...•........ 1887
Bishop ·-················· 1887
Maxwell -·············· 1888
Elsinore .................. 1888
Los .Angeles ·····-··· 1888
Santa Paula ......•..... 1888
Los Gatos ·-···-····· 1888
Orange ·-·······-······ 1889
Kingsburg ·--··-···- 1889
Guemeville
1889
San Diego ........•..... 1R89
Dunsmuir ·······-····· 1889
Santa Clara ...•........ 1890
Redlands ................ 1890
Ontario ·······-········· 1890
Kings' City ............ 1890
Porterville ·-····-··· 1890
Reedley ·-···-·····-··· 1891
.Azusa - ················ 1891
Colton ·········-········· 1891
Santa Monica ........ 1891
Monrovia ············- 1891
Delano -···-··········· 1892
Mount Shasta ······- 1892
Loe Banos -··········· 1892
Tehachapi .............. 1892
Corona ·-····-········· 1893
Norwalk ................ 1893
Sanger .................... 1893
Pallbrook ................ 1893
Biggs ·-·················- 1893
Loa .Angdes -······- 1894
Loe .Angeles .......... 1894
Pleasanton ······-······ 1894
.Alhambra ·-··········· 189-4
Whittier ·-············· 189J

i:.. .

AfRI.
MF.. Dues IMn

7f
,,.

lf.00

fO

fO
,,.
fO
fO
fO

1.00
2.00
f.00
f.00
f.00

80
7f
,,.
1.00
7f
12S'
fO
6.00
,,.
1.00
80 12.00
,,.
fO
fO
3.00
fO
fO
f.00
,,.
1.00
50 .10.00
,,.
3.00
,,.
7f
,,.
,,. 10.00
50
7f
,,.
1.00
fO
fO
80
fO
,,.
7f
fO

7f
fO
7f
7f
,.,.
80
7f
100
fO
7f
,,.
fO

10.00

2.00
1.00
2.00

7f
,,.
,.,.
f.00
fO
f.00
7f 10.00
100 2S'.OO
fO
7f
7f

12 638
18 -486
12
91
12 183
12 3f3
12 162
12
f3
12
80
12 f-41
lf 308
12
-41
12 ,. ....
12 f3f
12 1-49
12 181
lf 21 7
12 n7
12 219
12 2S'8
12
86
12
6-4
12 -416
12
S'S
12 2'4f
lf 19f
12
70
lf lf9
12 8-42
1f 3-4f
12 298
18 263
12 lf-4
12 133
12 1189
12 299
12 312
12 -433
12 367
lf lS'O
12 -463
12 lH
12 2H
12 279
12 383
lf 290
12 232
12 11 f
12 lf6
12 196
12 219
12 2-49
12 316
12 128
12
79
12 ion
12 659
12 13-4
12 6-42
12 68f

448

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGE~Continued
No.
l.odQ•
234 Corona --·--··-·······-324
23" Con1uelo -·-················327
236 Needle1 ·····--···············326
237 Long Beach -·········-····327
238 Redondo ····--·······-···328
239 Vallee de Prance .....•.... 329
240 Kilauea ·····--················330
241 Pacific Grove - ............. 331
242 San Pedro -··············-·332
243 Alta ---···················--333
244 Covina ·-·····-················334
247 West Gate -··-·······-··33'
246 Fruitvale ----············-·336
247 Carquinei ---···········337
248 San Jacinto -···········-··-338
249 Fullerton ······-·········---339
250 Oxnard ·-···-·····-·----341
2S'l San Fernando ........•..... 343
2S'2 Starr King ·-·················344
2S'3 Brentwood -··-··············347
254 Palo Alto -··--····-··-···346
2H McKinley ......................347
2S'6 San Bernardino ............ 348
2S'7 Sequoia -·····················349
258 Palestine -···············-··371
259 Sunset - - ··-··········-3S'2
.................. 373
260 Pinole 261 Presidio -··-·--·····-·-3 S' 4
262 Hollywood ·-··············-377
263 Mill Valley ·-···········--356
264 Buena Park .................. 377
26S' Golden State - ..........•.. 358
266 Loyalton -····--·············3 79
267 San Francisco ................360
268 Port Bragg .................... 361
269 Charity -······················362
270 Berkeley -··--··········-···363
271 Willits --·--···············367
272 Lu Palmaa ••..••..............366
273 South Pasadena ............ 367
274 Unity ---·--·····---368
275 Ocean Park ·--·······---369
276 Amity ----····-·---370
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie 371
278 Gardena ---···-· ··--372
279 West Loe Angeles ........373
280 Jewel ·······-··--········--3 7 4
281 Richmond ················--·37'
282 Francis Drake ...........-.376
283 Artesia --·-··············377
284 Mizpah -···-············--·3'78
285 Fillmore --··············-···379
286 Huntington Beach ........ 380
287 Oceanside ·-····-····-···-381
288 Highland Park ...•......._382
289 Orosi - ·····-·········-····-383
290 El Centm ...................-384
291 Dinuba ··-·····--··-···-387
292 Coalinga -····--·----317

Chert•
luued

F..

Pasadena ............................ 189S'
Escondido ..................... 189S'
Needles ........................... 1896
Long Beach ............ 1896
Redondo ........•....... 1897
1897
Loa Angeles
Hilo, T. H ............• 1897
1897
Pacific Grove
San Pedro .............. 1897
Bridgeport .............. 1897
Covina •••..•.............• 1898
Los Angeles .......... . 1899
Oakland --··········- 1899
Crockett ......................... 1899
San Jacinto ···-······· 1899
Fullerton -·-···--1900
Oxnard ............. ................ 1901
San Fernando •......•.. 1902
1902
San Francisco
Brentwood .............. 1902
Palo Alto ..................... 1902
Richmond -·······-··· 1902
San Bernardino ...... 1902
Oakland ·-···-··-····· 1902
Loa Angeles ···-···- 1903
Loa Angeles •...•..... 1903
Pinole -···--···-····· 1903
San Francisco ........ 1903
1903
Hollywood
Mill Valley -··---1903
Buena Park ............ 1903
Loa Angeles ............ 1904
Loyalton ·-············· 1904
1904
San Francisco
Port Bra3g .....•........ 1904
Camp be .•....••..•.••.• 1904
·······-···-·· 1904
Berkeley...... ____________
Willits
1905
Fresno ................................... 1905
South Pasadena ...... 1905
1905
Glendale
Ocean Park ·········- 1905
San Francisco
1905
Honolulu, T. H .••.. 190S'
Gardena ···--·--····· 1906
West Los Angeles..- 1906
San Francisco ••...... 1906
San Francisco •....... 1906
So. San Francisco .• 1906
Artesia •••...••............ 1906
1906
Los Angeles
Fillmore ...•.......•...... 1906
Huntington Beach.. 1906
Oceanside ................... 1906
1907
Los Angeles
Orosi .......•.............. 1907
El Centro ................... 1907
Dinuba ·······-·····-·· 1907
Coalinga ........................ 1907

100
50
7S'
100
100
100
125
75
80
53
50
125
100
50
50
50
7S'
7S'
100
50
100
75
75
100
100
7S'
7S'
100
12S'
80
30
75

Location

__

-

-----------

449

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Aflll.
Mem·
Fe.. Du• bera

1.00
25.00
12.00
25.00
S'.00
25.00

1.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
H .00
20.00
1S'.00

S'O

100
7S'
50
75
50
80
7S'
100
80
100
17S'
80

"

100
100
100
50
100
50
75
7S'
7S'
S'O
7S'
S'O
100

S'.00
5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
S'.00
3.00
10.00
2S'.OO
S'.00
2S'.OO
1.00
S'.00

12
12
12
12
12
1S'
12
12
H
12

474
2S'2
H7
S'88
497
129
233
2H
507
90
12 304
H 1039
16 894
12 199
12 101
12 388
1S' 389
12 509
1S' S'38
12 136
12 694
12 482
12 706
H 1079
12 599
lS' 389
12 176
12 529
12 1192
lS' 42S'
12 213
12 8S'l
99
12
12 318
12 131
12 HO
12 661
12 lH
12 964
12 580
12 6H
12 502
18 466
12 673
12 318
12 400
12 189
12 547
18 345
12 167
12 441
H 236
12 318
12 337
12 633
1S' 141
12 4U
12 286
12 379

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGE~ontinued
No.
293 Parnassus ·------388
294 Palos Verdes -·····-···-389
295' Imperial --·-····--··-·-390
296 East Belt ······--··-·---391
297 West Lake ·-····-·····---392
298 Balder ·············-·····-·--393
299 University ·-·-·---··-394
300 Turlock --··--·-..·-···-397
301 Apollo -··---·-·····-····396
302 Rising Light -··········-397
303 Fraternity ·-·-····-·-399
304 Burlingame _ •..:.. __ 400
305 Bay View·-···--·--·-·401
306 Brawley ·······--·----··402
-····-···-403
307 Yerba Buena
404
_________
308 Glendora
309 Moneta ·-···-·-----407
310 Burbank ......·-········-·--406
311 La Mesa ...·--·····-····..-407
312 Sierra Madre ·········---408
l13 Honolulu ··-··············-··409
314 Charter Rock ··-·····---410
3 H Perris _;·······-·-····-··· ..-411
316 Calexico ······--····---412
317 Arlington -··-····-··--414
318 Silver Trowel
..; _______416
_____-·-···-41S'
319 Lindsay
320 Clovis - - - - · - - 4 1 7
321 Elysian ·---·---418
322 Upland -·--·---419
323 Kerman ····--···-···-···420
324 Inglewood ··-·-·-··-421
32S' Eagle Rock •.!....- .•.•-422
326 York ·····-·--···-.--423
327 Exeter ·······-···········--424
328 Holtville ·---·-·······--427
329 Midway ·····················-·426
330 Chino Valley -········--··427
331 San Dimas ·-··········-···-428
3 32 Pittsburg -···--··--429
430
333 McCloud
334 Alpha ________431
l3 5 Hammonton ---··---433
336 Maricopa ·-···-··--434
______437
337 Fairmount
3 38 Claremont ···--·-----436
339 Lancaster -··--·····----437
340 Acacia ·-····-········-···-438
341 Tyrian .....~---·-···--439
342 Standard -·--·-···-440
343 Coronado ···········-···--44J
344 Blackmer ····-·-·······---442
34S' Schofield ·····--·········--443
l.odQ•

346 Carpinteria --··-···--444
347 Wihhire ······-····-···--447
_______ 446
348 La Puente
349 Torrance
44'7
\ S'O Mt. Diablo ----··---448

Chart•
laued

Location

San Francisco ····-·· 1907
Long Beach -·········· 1907
Imperial .......................... 1908
Tuolumne -·····-··· 1908
Los Angeles ·-······· 1908
San Francisco ......•• 1908
Los Angeles .......... 1908
Turlock ···········-····· 1908
Alameda ·····-··. ······ 1908
Huntington Park.. 1908
San Jose •............... 1908
Burlingame ·--·--· 1908
Oakland ··-········· 1909
Brawley -·-···-···-··· 1909
Oakland ·····-········· 1909
Glendora -·--·--·· . ····· 1909
Los Angeles ·······-· 1909
Burbank ...................... 1909
La Mesa·-··············· 1910
Sierra Madre ....•....• 1910
Honolulu, T. H ..•.. 1910
Berkeley .................... 1910
Perris ............................ 1910
Calexico ·-·········-··· 1910
Los Angeles ............ 1910
Los Angeles ·-········· 1910
Lindsay ......................... 1910
Clovis -·-·-········-- 1910
1910
Loa Angeles
Upland ................... .. 1911
Kerman ................. .... 1911
Inglewood .............. 1911
Eagle Rock ......•.•... 1911
Los Angeles .....•...... 1912
Exeter .............................. 1912
Holtville .......................... 1912
Taft ........................ 1912
Chino ·-··········-----· 1912
San Dimas .........•.... 1912
Pittaburg ······-·····-· 1912
1912
McCloud
1912
Richmond
Hammonton --······· 1913
Maricopa ··-·····-····· 1913
San Francisco --··· 1913
Claremont --········--· 1913
Lancaster ........•....... 1913
Los Angeles ................ 1913
Manteca ....................... . 1913
Oakland ···--····-··· 1914
Coronado ·-··········· 1914
San Diego ....•......... 1914
Schofield
Barracks, T . H ... 1914
Carpinteria ................ 1914
Los Angeles --······· 1914
Puente ·--····-·--···· 1914
1914
Torrance
1914
Concord

-----·
__
-

--·-··-·--

--···-·····

-

---·-··---·-·----·

Afffl.

F..

F..

100
125'
75'
50
100
100
100
80
7S'
100
100
100
75
7S'
80
50
lOS'
100
100

10.00
10.00
S'.00
50.00
20.00
10.00
1.00
5.00
5.00
2S'.OO
S'.00
3.00

75
17S'
7S'
S'O
S'O
7S'

10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00

75

5.00
S'O
75
7S' 2S'.OO
3.00
S'O
7S'
12S' 2S'.OO
100
7S' 2S'.OO
S'O
7S'
S'O
S'O
H
1.00
7S'
S'O
7J
S'O
S'O ·
100
70
60
6.00
75 10.00
S'O
7f
7S'
80
100
S'O
125
S'O
80

"

5.00
25.00
1.00

Mem·

Du•

ben

12 741
12 716
12 121
91
12
12 942
12 492
12 618
1S' 368
12 466
12 1030
12 4S'3
18 633
12 610
H 206
H 861
12 142
12 730
12 656
12 494
12 146
12 383
12 364
12 HO
12 162
12 358
12 391
18 222
12 420
12 463
12 201
12 107
12 690
,12 498
12 336
12 213
12 141
12 498
12 134
12 163
12 289
12 102
12 S'02
12
64
12 17S'
1S' 483
12 116
12 2S'7
60
12
12 168
1S' 348
12 369
12 1204
12
12
12
12
H
12

245
119
H7
H4
391
303

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

450

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Contin ued
r·.vw.;·~

lod!I•

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

San Francisco ........... 1914
3 S'l Park ·············-·--449
_______4S'O
Van Nuys .............. 1914
3S'2 Van Nuys _______4n
Montebello ··--···---· 1914
3S'3 Montebello
Pasadena ........................... 1914
H4 San Pasqual ---···-····4"2
San Francisco ............... 191S'
3S'S' Bethlehem ·--··----·-·-··-4U
3S'6 Crocker ·······-····----·-4"4 Daly City ......................... 191"
San Francisco ........ 191S'
---··----·--4ff
3S'7 Golden West
4f7
______________
Monterey Park ...... 191S'
H& Ramona
H9 Henry s. Oruie......•.- ..4S'8 Los Angeles .................. 191S'
360 Riverbank -----·-··----4f9 Riverbank ....................... 191 S'
361 Mount Oso ..................460 Tracy ...................... 1916
San Francisco ........ 1916
362 Argonaut ·-······-·····---461
San Francisco ........ 1916
363 Paul Revere ·-·-·-···--.462
Morgan Hill .......... 1916
364 Morgan Hill ··--··-···--463
36S' Alta Vista -----····------464 San Francisco ........ 1916
366 Center --··-····-···-···46f Fresno ............................. 1916
367 Libertas ······-----·-···-----466 Bakersfield .............. 1917
368 Culver City ------·····467 Culver City ............ 1917
369 Rockridge ··-------··---·.468 Oakland ..................____ 1917
370 Yorba Linda ................469 Yorba Linda .......... 1918
San Francisco ........ 1918
371 Lincoln -·-------·-·-···-···470
Stockton ·····--··-····· 1918
372 Delta --·--···------·--··----•71
Kahului, T. H ..---· 1918
373 Maui -··-·--···-···-··-472
Blythe -················· 1919
374 Blythe --·-·-·--··--473
San Francisco ........ 1919
37S' Victory ·--·····-···-····474
1920
Los Angeles
376 America ····-·······-·····-··47f
377 Coachella ··············-···-476 Coachella ·····-·······-- 1920
Fellows ......................... 1920
378 Temblor -·---····-···-··--477
379 Thousand Oaks ·····-····.478 Berkeley ·····---------· 1920
San Jose .................. 1920
380 Golden Rule -·····-·······479
381 Fellowship ····--····-·---480 Oakland ······--······· 1920
San Francisco ................ 1920
382 Mt. Davidson -·····----481
Los Angeles .......... 1920
383 Clarence F. Smith ···-···482
Bell ...................- ... 1920
384 Bell ·-······--·-·····-483
38S' Albert Pike -··-·····---484 Los Angeles .................. 1920
1920
386 Chowchilla ·----·---48f Chowchilla
387 Caledonia ·-····--·-··-486 Bakersfield .............. 1920
388 Vallejo ---········----487 Vallejo ................- ...-..... 1920
389 Patterson -··--·-···--···488 Patterson .......................... 1920
South Berkeley ...... 1920
390 East Bay ·-········-·--····489
391 Corcoran -------490 Corcoran ................_...... 1920
392 Woodstock _____491
--··---- 1920
________492 Alameda
Los Angeles -··-- 1920
393 Garvanza
Atascadero .................. 1920
394 Atascadero ·-···-···---493
Oakland --······------· 1920
39S' Acorn ·-·····--·------494
San Francisco ··-···· 1921
396 Lebanon _ _ _ _ _49f
397 Fremont ---·-·-497 Oakland ······-······· 1921
398 Stockton -·-··-·----498 Stockton ............................. 1921
399 Capital City ·--·----···-499 Sacramento ...................... 1921
San Francisco ........ 1921
400 Roosevelt ...................... S'OO
401 Westwood - -···----f01 Westwood ----·--·---- 1921
....f02 . Richmond ............_.......... 1921
402 Harbor
Richmond -------·---· 1921
403 Point --············-········-S'03
Long Beach ·-········· 1921
404 Seaside ··-·-- ···-·--·-· f04
Santa Ana ............ _ 1921
40S' Silver Cord ..................fOf
Los Angeles ............ 1921
406 Mount Olive ·-···-···-··"06
407 El Segundo _____ f07
El Segundo ·······-·- 1921
408 Joppa _ _ _ _ _ ,.08 San Joaquin ............... 1921
1921
Loa Angeles
409 Benjamin Franklin -··-f09

_
-·····

451

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Fe..

7S'
80
100
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
7S'
7S'

Affll.
t.lem.
Fees Dues bers

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

50

80
80
100
S'O
7S'
80
100
100
12S'
S'O
100
80
SS'
7S'
100
7f
75
S'O
7S'
7S'
7S'
100
7S'
100
7S'
100
100
7S'
S'O
7S'
7f
7S'
7S'
7S'
80
100
100
80
7S'
7S'
S'O
75
75
100
7S'
12S'
S'O
50
100

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00

10.00
10.00
S'.00
2S'.OO

S'.00
1.00
10.00

S'.00
10.00
2.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S'.00
10.00

1.00
25.00
f.00

12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
12
1 S'
12
1 S'
1 S'
12
12
1 S'
12

496
704
H2
482
300
400
S'73
479
679
143
301
437
S'94
149
279
S'l6
S'92
338
479
146
340
479
12 2S'l
12 133
18 299
12 S'03
12 187
15 148
1 S' 496
12 600
12 334
18 396
1 S' 370
12 60S'
12 256
12 149
12 485
12 392
12 112
12 401
12 120
12 402
12 302
12 110
15 S'93
1S' 387
16 S'll
12 192
12 470
12 202
12 269
12 S'61
12 260
12 S'02
12 467
12 1004
12 320
80
12
12 3"7

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Contin ued
Lod11e

No.

410 Cupertino ··············-··---S'lO
411 Sunnyvale
412 Palms ---···.------···--'12
413 Cahuenga ·······---··---····· H3
414 Argonne ·····--············--"14
415 Vermont Square ........_n S'
416 Taft ·-···-·-·--·------"16
417 Mount Vernon --·-----"17
418 La Jolla ··--··---------"18
419 Euclid .......- ................. S'l9
420 Ionic .............................. S'20
421 Piedmont --··--···-·-···-"21
422 Sunrise -···-····-··-----"22
423 Bellflower --···-······--f23
424 Catalina Island ............f24
425 George Washington .... S'2f
426 Bay City ·········-····-···--·"26
427 Covenant .................- ... S'27
428 Beverly Hills ---··--······ "28
429 Loyalty ··--··-····-···--··--·-- "29
430 Sun Garden .................. S'30
431 Alexandria .................... S'31
432 Smyrna
··-··--··-·········,. 32
433 Azure ·-·-·--·-·-··--·
n 3
434 Forest Hill ·······-·--·---"34
43" Alexander Hamilton ....Hf
436 Seal Rock ......................U 6
437 Utopia -----·······---f37
438 Ascot ······-··········-······-S'38
439 Belvedere ·-··········--·······S'39
440 Queen Beach ······-·······"40
441 Henry Morse Stephens Hl
442 North Hollywo'od ........ S'42
443 Signal ···--·-···-·-···--····H3
444 Glendale ·············---·-··"44
44S' Jonathan ·-···-········----f4f
446 San Gabriel ···-········---f46
447 Arcadia ·-····-··-·---f47
448 Triangle --··---······---H8
449 Justice ··--····--···---f49
450 Seaport ·-··-·-···-·--""O
4S'l Lakeshore ---······-·---fH
4S'2 Sefilper Virens --·---f"2
4S'3 Educator ...................-.S'S'4
4S'4 White Pine
4S'S' Fairfax ···--··--···-·······--"S'6
4S'6 Hermosa ·-··-·-·---ff7
4S'7 Point Firmin ·-···-··-·""8
4S'8 Craftsmen ················---"f9
4S'9 Plymouth ·······-·············"60
460 East San Diego _ ......... f61
461 Pyramid ........................ S'6 2
462 South Park .................. S'63
463 Foothill ........................ S'64
464 West Adams ................S'6f
46S' James A. Garfield ........ S'66
466 Searchlight -·····-----f67
467 Park Boulevard -·-·····-f68
468 Chateau Thierry ·-·--f69

Location

Charter
Issued

Cupertino ....................... 1921

Sunnyvale ·-·-····---·· 1921
·---··--'11 Palms·--------······----·
1921

--···-···-··"""

Los Angeles ............ 1921
San Francisco ........ 1922
Loa Angeles
1922
Taft ......- ................ 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
La Jolla .................. 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Piedmont ................ 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Bellflower ·-·····--···· 1922
Avalon ..... ..................... 1922
San Francisco ............. 1922
San Francisco .............. 1922
Los Angeles
1922
Beverly Hills .......... 1922
Los Angeles ................. 1922
Fresno ........................ ......... 1922
San Francisco
1922
Ceres ---···--·······-··· 1922
Fullerton ......................... 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Monterey Park ...... 1922
Long Beach ·---·····-- 1923
1923
1923
Long Beach ............ 1923
Glendale ·······-··----· 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
San Gabriel ............ 1923
Arcadia --···-·········· 1923
Venice .................... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Oakland ----·-···-···· 1923
Eureka .................... 1923
San Ft ancisco ........ 1923
Weed ................................. 1923
San Anselmo -········ 1923
Hermosa Beach ----· 1923
San Pedro .............. 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Oakland ···--····---··· 1923
East San Diego ...... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Los Angeles ·-·-····· 1923
Los Angeles
1923
Long Beach ·······-··· 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Oakland
1923

~e;~~ekoii;;;~:r::

······-········

Fees

7S'
7S'
12S'
100
100
7S'
S'O
80
80
7S'
175
80
100
75
100
100
100
100
12S'
12S'
80
7S'
70
S'O
80
7S'
100
100
100
7S'
80
7S'
12S'
100
100
100
7S'
75
7S'
100
100
100
S'O
80
S'S'
100
7S'
80
100
7S'
7S'
90
100
80
100
100
80
100
7f

Affll.
t.lemFees Dues bers

S'.00

12
12
12

S'.00

12
12
12
12
18
12
12
15
1S'
12
12
1S'
12
1 S'
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
1S'
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
1S'
1S'
18
18
12
1S'
12
12
12
12
12
1 S'
12
12
12
12

30.00

15

f .00

12
12

S'.00
S'.00
10.00
25.00
S'.00

10.00
10.00
S'.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

5.00
S'.00

S'.00

10.00
2S'.OO
S'.00
S'.00
2.00

S'.00
10.00

H
12

163
318
430
S'44
388
S'28
309
221
26S'
396
784
289
332
388
149
478
360
340
494
4"3
S'32
161
110
246
178
2S'6
199
701
346
220
191
33S'
714
488
665
198
418
37S'
249
366
236
269
263
371
99
3S'O
30S'
364
430
373
710
290
409
692
307
230
468
41 S'
346

452

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lodge

Ho.

469 Military Service ·-···---f70
470 Francis K. Shattuck __ f71
471 James Madison -·-·---f72
472 Hillcrest ----·------f73
473 S. W. Hackett -·--···-f74
474 Port Crook ·······-···········'J7'J
47S' El Cajon Valley ..........-'176
476 Sunnyside .................... S'77
477 Progressive ··-·-··--·'178
478 Warren G. Hardipg._.•.'179
479 Santa Maria ..................f80
480 Security ---·-···---f81
481 Rialto --···--····-·-··'182
482 Wasco ---··········-···--'183
483 Harding ·-············-······.584
484 Manchester -·--·····--f8'J
48S' Garden Grove -····-·f86
486 Valley Forge ·-··----'187
487 El Sereno ...................... S'88
488 Kauai ···········-··········--'189
489 Comp_ass ·····-·····-···--f90
490 Escalon ·······-········--···S'91
491 Tujunga ·······-········-··f92
492 All States ·····--··--·-"93
493 Service ·············-·-········ S'94
494 Alexander Graham Bell 'i9S'
49S' Guardian ...................... S'96
496 Pearl Harbor --···-·-f98
497 Carmelita .............--f99
498 Lynwood ············-···-·-600
499 Grizzly ·······-··············-601
S'OO Melrose -··-·-········---602
S'Ol Dimond .;.••....•...••--603
S'02 Jubilee ········-··-·--604
S'03 Glassel! Park ··········---60f
S'04 Sojourner ·····--····---.607
S'OS' Granada --·-···-·-··-608
S'06 Provident ......................609
S'07 Elmhurst •-·····-···--610
S'08 Canoga -··-··---··--611
S'09 Temple City ·-·----612
S'lO Three Pillars ·--·----613
S'll Larchmont ·--·----614
S'l 2 Hemet ---··----61S'
S'13 R. E. Dolley --···-···--616
514 Big Bear ······-··----617
fl 'J Southland ......................618_
f16 Neptune ·--·-····-·----619
fl 7 Point Loma -···-···-620
f18 The Gardens -··-·--621
S' 19 Atwater ····--···-·--622
S'20 Menorah ···········--··-623
S'21 Fortitude -····--······-·624
S'22 Angeles Mesa - ···--·62f
S'23 Chula Vista ·····-·······--626
f24 Lamanda Park ·-···-·-···627
'12 S' Truth -·--···--·····--628
f26 Fairview ·-·----629
S'27 Ingleside - 630

Location

Charter
luued

San Francisco .......• 1923
Berkeley ................ 1923
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1923
Berkeley ·····-········· 1923
San Diego .............. 1923
Pall River Mills...... 1923
El Cajon ...............• 1923
Los Angeles
1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
North Sacramento.. 1924
Ramona ·············-··· 1924
Bakersfield .............. 1924
Rialto ···-··············· 1924
Wasco ··········-········ 1924
Los Angeles .......•.. 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Garden Grove •....... 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Los Angeles
1924
Lihue, T. H ........... 1924
Pomona •................. 1924
Escalon .................• 1924
Tujunga ...............• 1924
Long Beach ·-········· 1924
Long Beach ·-········· 1924
Los Angeles -········ 1924
South Gate -··-····· 1924
Honolulu, T. H ...•• 1924
Pasadena ·······-······· 1924
Lynwood ................ 192S'
Pottola ................... 192'i
Los Angeles .......... 192 'i
Oakland ................ 192'i
Santa J\na ·--········· 192 S'
Los Angeles
192S'
Monrovia·········-····· 1925
Alhambra ············- 192S'
Sacramento ·-···-···· 192S'
Oakland ................ 192S'
Canoga Park .......... 192 S'
Temple City •.......•... 192S'
Sacramento ............ 192S'
Los Angeles
192S'
Hemet ·-···············- 192S'
Seal Beach
192S'
Big Bear Lake .......• 192'1
Los Angeles ·····-··· 192S'
Long Beach ............ 192S'
San Diego .............. 192S'
Los Angeles ·-······· 192S'
Los Angeles .......... 192S'
Loe Angeles .........• 192 S'
Oakland ····-·········· 192 S'
Los Angeles
182S'
Chula Vista .•.......... 192S'
Pasadena •............••• 192 S'
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1926
San Francisco •....... 1926

453

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

F-

Affll.

Fees

100 10.00
7S'
S'.00
7S'
7S'
80
S'.00
7S'
7S'
12S' 20.00
7S' lS'.00
7'J
80
100
S'.00
7S'
80
S'.00
7S'
12S' 20.00
7S' 2S'.OO
100 12.S'O
7S'
7S' 10.00
2.00
70
S'O
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
S'.00
100
lS'O lS'.00
7S'
12S'
S'O 10.00
7S' 10.00
S'.00
100
7S'
1.00
7S'
7S'
7S'
7S' 10.00
100 10.00
S'O
1.00
7S'
7S' 10.00
100
f.00
S'O
7S'
7S'
roo S'.00
90
7S'
'J.00
100
7'J
12S'
7S'
S'.00
100
7S'
1.00
7S'
76
1.00
80
3.00
7S'

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

Du..

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
1 S'
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
1S'
12
12
16
12
12
12
l'i
12
12
12
12
12
16
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
1 S'
12
18

Mern-

bert

347
268
3S'8
76
H9
161
251
464
49S'
496
113
389
148
289
24S'
363
204
369
413
129
2S'4
127
249
HO
71S'
267
79S'
S'70
320
371
144
234
28S'
333
40S'
203
719
412
231
230
3S'6
389
404
1S'2
194
148
30S'
270
498
422
370
779
199
628
379
24S'
248
269
182

Lodge

No.

f28 Benevolence ·--········----631
J29 Normal Heights ..........632
BO Poinsettia --·--·----•.633
'J 31 Victorville ·-····-··········634
S'3 2 Riverside ·······-·········-··63S'
S'33 John Marshall ......•..•....636
J34 Palisades -···-···-···-···637
f3S' Indian Rock -····-·········638
f36 Composite ---·····-······639
S' 37 Veritas ····-··-···········-···640
S'38 James A. Foshay ·------641
f39 La Cumbre ·-·--·-·----642
S'40 Alta Loma -··--······---643
S'41 Lomita -··-···-··----644
S'42 A. P. E. Irwin -····-·····64S'
'143 Metropolitan ·-···-····-·646
S'44 Hawthorne ·-·····-··--647
S'4'i Damascus -··-·-···-648
S'46 Florence -·-··-··--·649
S'47 La Brea ·-·····--·--··6f0
S'48 Menlo Park ·--······---6S'l
'149 Crescenta Valley .•........6S'2
HO Fontana ·-············-······:6f3
Hl Jordan ·-·········-·-··---.6S'4
S'S'2 Monte Vista -·-·--·-·--6H
H3 Citro! -······-·--·---6S'6
S'S'4 John D. Spreckels ........6'i7
S'S'S' Livingston --····--·--6S'8
H6 La Habra ···---·--··-···6f9
H7.. Baldwin Park -····-·······660
S'S'8 Malta ---·-·····-····-·---661
S' S'9 Henry Knox ·-······----662
S'60 Ojai ·-····-·_!_______663
S'61 Kaweah --··-·-·-······66S'
S'62 Reseda ··--·····-···-·····666
S'63 Meridian -··················-667
S'64 San Gorgonio ·-···········668
S'6'i John P. Jarman ·······----669
S'66 Greenleaf ········-·-·····-··670
S'67 San Clemente ····-····-··671
S'68 Laguna Beach ___......672
S' 69 Par West --·- · - -....673
S'70 Los Cerritos - - -.........674
S'71 Modesto ---··--·--67S'
S'72 Willow Glen ·--··-·--676
S'73 Liberal Arts --········-677
S'74 Altadena ·-·--··············678
S'7S' Canby Cross ..................679
S'76 Carmel ---·-·-·--···-680
S'77 Dos Palos -·-·-········-···681
S'78 Barstow -····-·········---682
S'79 Redwood Empire -·-···683
S'80 Trona -·--·-·--684
S'81 San Marino ·-········-·- ··68f
S'82 Albany -··-·-···········686
S'83 Vista ----·······---687
S'84 Oildale ---··········--·····688
S'8S' Pohona -···-······--·689
S'86 San Carlos ·--·····-······690

Location

Charter
Issued

Los Angeles
1926
San Diego .............. 1926
San Buenaventura .. 1926
Victorville .............• 1926
Riverside ·······-······· 1926
Beverly Hills .......... 1926
Santa Monica ........ 1926
Berkeley ................ 1926
Los Angeles
1926
San Francisco .•....•. 1926
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1926
Santa Barbara ........ 1926
Signal Hill ............ 1926
Torrance ···-····-····· 1926
San Pedro ···-········· 1926
Los Angeles .......... 1926
Hawthorne ·-········· 1926
San Bernardino ·-··· 1926
Los Angeles ·-·-··· 1927
Loa Angeles ·····-··· 1927
Palo Alto ................ 1927
Montrose •............... 1927
Fontana .................. 1927
Los Angeles
1927
Long Beach ·····-····· 1927
Brea ······-····-········· 1927
San Diego -·········· 1927
Livingston -··-···-··1927
La Habra ................ 1927
Baldwin Park •.•..... 1927
Los Angeles
1928
Los Angeles .......... 1928
Ojai ·······-··············· 1928
Woodlake •............. 1928
Reaeda -·················· 1928
Glendale ................ 1928
Banning ·············-··· 1928
San Jose ·····-········· 1928
Whittier -·············· 1928
San Clemente ........ 1928
Laguna Beach ........ 1929
San Francisco .:...... 1929
Long Beach·······-··· 1929
Modesto •............... 1929
Willow Glen .......... 1930
Loa Angeles .......... 1930
Altadena ···········-··· 1930
Tulelake ................ 19 3S'
Carmel .................... 1935
Dos Palos .............. 1939
Barstow ·····-··········· 1940
Garberville ............ 1940
Trona --··············· 1941
South Pasadena .... 1944
Albany ..•.•............. l 94S'
Vista ·-·····················194S'
Bakersfield
1946
Yosemite Valley .... 1946
San Carlos .............. 1946

Affll.
Fees

Fees

100
80
7'i
H

7S'
7S'
S'.00
80
7S'
S'.00
125 10.00
100 lS'.00
100
7S'
100
80
80
S'.00
7S'
100
S'.00
7S'
S'.00
12S' 2S'.OO
100 10.00
7S'
100
S'S' 10.00
7S'
7S'
S'O
1.00
80
S'O
S'O
S'O

7S'
12S'

2S'.OO

7S'
100
S'O

S'O

7S'
S'O
H
S'O
7S'
100
7f
S'O
100
S'O
100

&ers

IS'
12
12
12
1212
12

274
601
S'86
186
362
282
384
206
366
119
238
243
360
239
272
131
371
'i38
466
2 'i9
221
384
274
3S'4
H7
167
611
147
172
1S'4
217
418
104
110
272
479
219
246
474
74
182
323
306
434
286
292
433
130
166
109
2S'6
80
127
-301
181
220
1S'8
S'7
213

1S'

12
1S'
12
12
12
1S'

12
12
12
12
12

1S'
1S'
12
12

12
12

12
12
1S'
12

S'O
S'O

7S'
100
7S'
7S'
7S'
12S'
7S'
7S'
12S'
7S'

Mem·
Does

1.00
S'.00

12
12
12
1S'
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

1.00
10.00

12
1S'
lS'
12

S'.00
1.00
3.00
10.00
1.00
2S'.OO
10.00

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
lS'
12
12
1S'
12
18

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF CONSTITUENT. LODGES-Continued
Lod9•

No.

'87 Indian Wells Valley ....691
588 Travelers ······-·-·--·---692
'89 Palm Springs ····-··--·-693
590 San .Antonio -·-····-···694
591 Meudell .......•.•..............69f
592 Crossroads ·······-···········696
593 St. Elmo ·······-····-····-·-697
594 Wm. D. Stephens ........698
595 Bixby Knolls ................699
f96 Ponderosa ···········-·······700
597 Santa Yne.z Valley........701
598 Rosemead ......................702
599 Westchester ..................703
600 Orinda ················-·-·····704
601 El Cerrito ...•.•..............705
602 Hunters Point Naval.... 706
603 Lake Tahoe ..................707
604 Seafaring ...........•..........708
605 Lorenzo ···········-···········709
506 .Anacapa ·······-···············710
607 Rim of the World..........711
608 Los .Altos ·············-·······712
609 Castro Valley ................ 713
610 Blue Lakes .................... 714
611 Magnolia Park ............71 f

Location

Charter
l11ued

China Lake ............ 1946
Sacramento
1947
Palm Springs •....... 1947
Bell ........................ 1947
Bakersfield .............. 1948
San Diego .............. 1948
Oakland .................. 1948
Los .Angeles·-········· 1948
Long Beach ............ 1949
Fresno .................... 1949
Los Olivos ·····-······· 1949
Rosemead .............. 1949
Los .Angeles .......... 1950
Orinda .................. 1950
El Cerrito .............. 1950
San Francisco ........ 1950
Bijou ...................... 1950
Costa Mesa .......•.... 19 50
Hayward ···········-··· 1950
Oxnard .................. 1950
Lake .Arrowhead .... 1950
Palo Alto
1951
19 51
San Leandro
San Bruno .............. 1951
Burbank ................ 19 n

Fees

Fee1

Affil.

,,00
100
75 10.00
5.00
100
100
100
80
100 10.00
125
7f 10.00
80
1.00
75
75
79
75
75
100 10.00
7f 10.00
1.00
75
75
7'i 25.00
5.00
7f
100 25.00
75
5.00
100
100 10.00

455

EXTINCT LODGES

Due1

bera

M•m·

12
12
H
12
12

12
12
12
12
12
12
12

12
12
12
12
12
12
12

236
140
122
108
103
B7
68
58
153
127
52

70
118
71
65
82
30
114
82

15

53

12
12
12
18
12

57
41
50
43
38

Total membership, July 31, 1951.................... 202,500

4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
4 Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never

26
28
29
31
34
36
37
39
47
48
49
52

issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John'sbYreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.

1864.
.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 187:4.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never

issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

456

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gi:bsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidatro with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

457

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel. Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill. 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill. Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
J·an. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
issued.
175 Claiborne;Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct.16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bode~a, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889. ·
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 187'7.
226 Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.

458

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.

249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Ocl 11,
1911.
298 Mokelumne Hill, MokelUmne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. l, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Ocl 12, 1916.
372 Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P . I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kenneth, Kenneth, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
612 Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.
616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
.
664 Oasis, El Centi-or 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
1937.

1850

Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1856

Jonathan D. Steven1on..6. M.
California No. I
lom Jan. I, llOO
Died Feb. 14, 1894
John A. Tutt..............D. G . M.
Caleb Fenner.______ G. W.
Sashel Woods_____J, G. W.
Levi Stowell..____.....G. T.
John H. Gihon._______G, S.

s.

1851
John A. Tutt....____.•G. M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam ..........D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis................S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds..............J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas......G. T.
Levi Stowell.._ .................&. S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam........G. M.
Benicia No. 5
Bom March I, 1813
Died July 12, 1893
Chas. M. Radcliff...... D. G. M.
Addison Martin ..........._ ..G.T.
J. R. McConnell........J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ________G. T.
Levi Stowell......................G. S.

1853
Charles M. Radclfff.-.6. M.
Tuolumne No. I
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1889
T. A. Thomas..............D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall........S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott........J. G. W.
Addison Martln .._____G. T.
Levi Stowell_ _ _ _ _ &. S.

1854
William H. Howard ...... G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Born A119. 29, 1810
Died Sept. II, 1866
Nath. G. Curtis........ D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole..........S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Levi Stowell......................6. S.

1855
William H. Howard ......G. M.
T. A. Thomas..- ........D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond......S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ...- ...- ..6. T.
Levi Stowell
6. S.

459

1863

William H. Howard ......G. M. W illiam C. Belcher........G. M.
John A. Raymond.... D. G. M. G il. B. Claiborne._..D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon.._.___ G. W.
Louis Cohn..--..- ...S. G. W.
Peter W, Randle......J. G. W . Wm. A. Davie1..........
J. G . W.
Addison Martin..............G. T. James U.ldley............._6, T.
Alex G. Abell...________G, S.
Alex G. Abell_. _____&, S.

s.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtls......G. M.
1864
Washington No. 20
Bom Feb. 8 1825
W illiam C. Belcher........&. M.
Died July IZ 1997
Charles Marsh......._ .. D. G . M. G il. B. Claiborne...... D. 6. M.
Aaron D. ParL.........S. G . W. Wm. A. Davies..._ ...S. G. W.
John B. Pope...____ .J, G. W. Isaac S. Titu1.____J, G . W.
Addison Martin _ _ __6. T. James U.idley______G. T.
Alex G. Abell....._ _ _6. S.
Alex G. Abell -·--6. S.

1858
Nathanial G. Curtis......G. M.
P. W . Shepheard...... D. G. M.
W m. ••c
•L
SGW
mc orm1CL.....
• • .
Jas. W. Bicknell........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ----6· T.
Alex G. Abell _ _ _....G. S.

1865

G ilbert B. Claiborne......G. M.
SanJoaqulnNo.19
Born 1828 •
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wm. A. Davie&.......... D. G. M.
Isaac s. Titus.........- .S. G. W.
1859
Henry H. Hartley......J. G. W.
Nathaniel G. Curti&......G. M. James U.idley_ _._6. T.
P. W. Shepheard..-.D. G. M. Alex G. Abell_____&, S.
Ebenezer U.ne... _ .S, G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley...._.J. G. W.
1866
Addison Martin _____6, T.
Alex G. Abell ......_ ........G. S. G ilbert B. Claibome......G . M.
Henry H. Hertley___o. G. M.
1860
Wm. H. Peterson......S. G. W.
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M. Thomas BecL...........J. G. W.
P. W. Shepheard......D. G. M. James U.idley..............._ 6, T.
Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W. Alex G. Abell.._ ..........-6. S.
Alvinza Hayward ...•..J. G. W .
Addison Martin ..............&. T.
1867
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.
William A. Davles..._ ..6. M.
1861
Columbia No. 28
James L English............G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Sacramento No. 40
Died June 20, 1916
Bom June~ 1813
Henry H. Hartley.... D. G. M.
Died May • 1889
Thom111 BecL_____S, G . W.
Wm. C. Belcher........ D. 6 · M. Leonidas E. Pratt......J. G. W .
John W. Harville......S. G. W. J
A L ldl
G T
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
ames • a ey........__ • •
1 -'di
G
T
Alex
G.
AbelL
...........
-G.
S.
J ames ...,, ey.._....... • •
Alex G. Abell·-···----6. S.

1862

1868

William C. Belcher........6. M. Charles M1trsh................ G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Corinthian No. 69
Bom Dec. 6, 1825
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Aprll 28, 1876
Died Sept. I, 1895
Gil. B. C laiborne...... D. G . M. Leonidas E. Pratt...... D. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W. Theo. G. CockrilL...S. G. W.
John B. Hewson .._ ...J. G. W. Fredk. F. Baru......._J.G. W.
James U.idley______G, T. James U.ldley...____6. T.
Alex G. Abell_ _ _..6. S. Alex G. Abell..____&. S.

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1869

1876

Leonid111 E. Pratt..........G. M. John M. Browne............6. M.
Mountain Sltada No. II
Chas. L Wiggin ...... 0. G. M.
lorn Aug. 29, 1833
Wm. S. Wells............S. 6. W.
Died Od. ZS, 1886
Isaac S. Tltus.....--D· G. M. Solon W. Craigue.....J. G. W.
John S. Ward._____ .S, G. W. James Leidley..______ .6. T.
Richard ·Dele._........J. G. W. Alex G. Abell..................G. S.
.iames l.eidley...•.-.-·..-·6• T.
1877
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.
John M. Browne............G. M.
1870
Ches. L Wiggin ...... 0. G. M.
Leonrdas E. Prett._.._.....G. M. Wm. W. Treylor........S. G. W.
M.
G.
-.0.
....
Titus_
lseec S.
Wm. H. Crane..........J. G. W.
Ch111. L Wlggin. ___s. G. w. Moses Heller ______6. T.
Benj. H. Freemen ......J. G. W.
James Leidley.. _____ 6. T. Alex G. Abell...........- ...6. S.
Alex G. A"•''---- - - -·6• S.

1871

Leonides E. Pratt....._ ..G. M.
Ch111. L Wiggln ........O. G. M.
Ben. H. Freeman ......S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins..._...J. G. W.
James Leidley-.......-_.G. T.
Alex G. Abell-:-......-_..6, S.

1872
Leonides E. Pratt.......... G. M.
Benj. H. Freemen ...... O. G. M.
Geo. C. Perkins........S. G. W.
John M. Browne........J. G. W.
· _6. T.
James uidleY--··Alex G. Abell _ _ _...6. S.

1873
Isaac S. Titus....._.........G. M.
San Joaquin No. It
lorn Od. I~ 1127
Died Aprll u., 1892
Seo. C. Perkins........ O. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W.
Chu. E. Mitchell......J. G. W.
James Leidley...........- ....6. T.
Alex G. Abell... _ ........._.6. S.

1874
George C. Perkins........G. M.
Orovltle No. ID3
lorn Aug. 23, 1839
Died Feb. 26, rm
John M. Browne.... _.O, G. M.
Wm. B. Parker..........S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ..........J. G. W.
James l.eidley................ G. T.
Alex G. AbelL__.........G. S.

1875
John M. Browne............6. M.
Naval No. rT
Born May ID, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Ches. L Wiggin ...... O. G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ..........S. G. W.
Jacob H. NefL.......J. 6. W.
James l.eidley.____ 6, T.
Alex 6. AbelL......... _ ...6. S.

461

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1883
Jonathan O. Hines...-6. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 10, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin........O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller---·-&• T.
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.

1889

1895

Morris M. EstH..- .....6. M.
William Johnston _O, 6. M.
Chas. R. Gritman......S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme.._ ...J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding __ G, T.
Alex G. Abell.................. 6 . S•

Edward M. Preston........ 6. M.
Nevada No. 13
lorn Mey 4, 1841
Died Aprll 24, 1903
Wm. T. Lucu............ O. 6. M.
Thomes Rint.......- ....S. G. W.
F. M. Angellotti........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............ G. T.
George Johnson ...._......&. S.

1884

Alvah R. Conklin ............ G. M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
Died Od. 5, 1897
William Johnston ...... O. G. M.
Chas. R. Grltman ....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... 6. T.
George Johnson ___ 6, S.

Jonathan O. Hlnes........ 6. M.
Wiley J. Tinnln.____ o. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
· &. T.
Moses Heller
1878
John M. Browne..._ ......G. M. Alex G. Abell............- ..6. S.
Wm. W. Traylor..._.O, G. M.
Wm. H. Crane ..........S. G. W.
1885
Robt. C. Broder........J. 6. W.
Moses Heller ______6. T. Wiley J. Tinnin ... __ ....&. M.
Trinity No. 27
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.
BornOd.7 1829
Died Nov, l4, 1910
C. Atklnson ......O. G. M.
Edm.
1879
William W. Treylor........G. M. Hiram N. Rucker......S. G. W.
Henry H. Knepp......J. 6. W.
Callfornla No. I
Bom March 17, 1822
Nathan W Spaulding _6, T.
Died Jan. IB, 1883
Alex G. Abell....- ...........6. S.
Samuel C. Oenson....O. G. M.
Clay W. Teylor._.S. G. W.
1886
John Q. Adarm..._.J. G. W.
6. T. Edmund C. Atklnson.... G. M.
Moses Heller
Sacramento No. 40
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.
Born Nov. 17~)837
Died March zu, ltll
1880
Hiram N. Rucker...... O. G. M.
Samuel C. Denson........ G. M. Morris M. Estee..._ ..S. G. W.
Union No. 58
Alvah R. Conklin ......J. G. W.
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Nathan W Spaulding __&. T.
Died July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor........O. G. M. Alex G. Abell..................&. S.
John Q. Adams........S. G. W.
0. W. HollenbecL.J. G. W.
1887
.6. T. Hiram N. Rucker_ ...&. M.
Moses Heller
Alex G. Abell_.......- ...6. S.
La &range No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dae. 13, 190S
1881
Clay W. Taylor.............. G. M. Morris M. Estee... _o. G. M.
Western Star No. 2
Alvah R. Conklin_...S. 6. W
Born Sept. IDf 1844
Wm. Johnston ..........J. G. W.
Died May I, 897
John Q. Adams........ O. G. M. Nathan W Spaulding ....6. T.
Jonathan O. Hines....S. G. W. Alex G. Abell..................&. S.
Thos. J. Bowers...._ ...J. G. W.
Moses Heller ______6. T.
1888
Alex G. AbelL....._........6. S. Morris M. EstH.......- ..6. M.
Callfomla No. I
1882
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Clay W. Teylor.....- ...6. M.
Jonathan 0. Hines.... O. G. M. Alvah R. Conklln...... O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W. William Johnston ......S. G. W.
George Hinds______J 6. W. Marc. 0. Borucl.... _J, G. W.
Moses Heller _ _ _6. T. Nathan W Spaulding __ 6. T.
Alex G. Abell......._ _ .6. S. Al111 6. Abell..._ ..__...&. S.

1890

. 1891

1896

1902

William T. Luces.-........6. M.
Guadalupe No. m
Born March 18, 18li0
Died March 21, 1931
Thomes FlinL......__ o. 6. M.
F. M. Angellotti....._S. G. W.
Ches. L Petton ........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ___.....6. T.
George Johnson _____&, S.

Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
Morning Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting .... O. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter......S. G. W.
Motley H. Flint........J. 6. W.
Edwatd Coleman .....- ....6. T.
George Johnson ___&, S.
Wm. H. Edwards...._ ...&. L

1897

William Johnston ..- .....G. M. Thomes Flint ______&. M.
Franklln No. 143
Texas No. 46
Born June 2, 1825
Born May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Died Nov. 18, 1936
Chu R. Gritman ...... O. G. M. F. M. Angellotti........ O. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ··--·S. G. W. Ches L Petton ..........S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevens.-.......J. G. W. Jes. A. Foshey..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ___ &. T. Edward Colentan............6. T.
George Johnson ___ &. S. George Johnson _ _&, S.

1892

1901
William S. Wells..- ....... 6. M.
Martina No. 41
Born June 24, 11161
Died Jan. 23, 1919
0. S. Henderson......O. G. M.
Ches. W. Nutting _s. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter __ J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...... ___ G, T.
George Johnson ........._&. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............G. L

1898

1903
Charles W. Nutting......G. M.
Evening Ster No. 186
Born Oct. l, I852
Died Sept. 2D, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ......0. G. M.
Motely H. Flint........S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hert....- ...J. G. W.
Edward Colemen....____ 6, T.
George Johnson ____•.&. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............&. L

1904

Charles R. Gritman _ ..&. M. Frank M. Angellotti...... 6. M. George W. Hunter......&. M.
Yount No. 12
Marin No. 191
Humboldt No. 79
lom Sept. 4, 1861
Born 1854
Born Dec. ID, 113B
Died May 14, 18'4
Died May 23, 1932
Died Od. 14, 1925
Henry S. Orme........ O. 6. M. Ches. L. Patton ........ 0. G. M. Motley H. Flint........O. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens..........S. G. W. J111. A. Foshey..._.....S. G. W. Edw. H. Hert............S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ........J. G. W. Wm. S. Wells...- ......J. G. W. Geo. M. Perine ____J, 6. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....6. T. Edward Colemen............G. T. Edward Colemen ............G. T.
George Johnson -·-..- ... &. S. George Johnson ............&. S. George Johnson _____&. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............G. L.

1893
Henry S. Onne-............6. M.
So. Callfomla No. 271
Born March 25 IB37
Died Nov. 29, \912
Jes. B. Stevens.......... O. 6. M.
Edw. M. Preston ........S. G. W.
Wm. T. Luces.-.........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............ G. T.
6eorge Johnson ............&. S.

1894
James B. Stevens ..........&. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn March 21i 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1719
Edw. M. Preston ........ O. G. M.
Wm. T. Lucn...........S. G. W.
Thomes Rint.._____J, G. W.
Edward Coleman._.._ ..&. T.
George Johnson _ _&. S.

1899

1905

Charles. L Patton .......... G. M.
California No. I
Born 1865
Died April II, 1923
Jes. A. Foshay.......... O. G. M.
Wm. S. Wel"---····S. G. W.
0. S. Hendenon......J. 6. W.
Edward Colemen............ G. T.
Georg• Johnson _____ e. S.

Motley H. Flint..............&. M.
East &ate No. 2'0
Born Feb. It, 18'1
Died July 14, 1'30
Edward H. Hert........O. 6. M.
Geo. M. Perine.._....S. 6. W.
Reuben H. Lloyd ..__J, G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............&. L

1900

1906

James A. Foshay.........:..&. M. Edward H. Hart ..- ....... G. M.
So. Callfomla No. 278
Live Oak No. 61
lorn Nov. 23, 1856
lorn IUI
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Died Sept, 26, 1917
Wm. S. Wells............ O. G. M. Geo. M. Perlne... __ o. G. M.
0. S. Henderson ......S. G. W. Reuben H. Uoyd ......S. G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting ....J. G. W. Otcar lewler ...,__J, 6, W.
Edward Colemen.....- ... G. T. Edward Coleman............ 6. T.
George Johnson ___&, S. George Johnson _ _&. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............&. L Wm. H. Edwerds._ _6. L

462

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1907

1913

1919

George M. Perine........G. M. John D. Murphey..... _...G. M. Ch115. Albert Adams ..._.G, M.
&celalor No. 1&6
Alta No. 333
Pacific No. 13'
Born Nov. 25, 18&7
Born July 7, 18&3
Born 1852
Dlad Sapt. 15, 1945
Dlad Od. &, 1933
Geo. F. Rodden ........ D. G. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M. Sam. E. Burke.._........S. G. W.
Oscar uwler...---···S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett........S. G. W. Wm. A. Sherman ......J. G. W.
W. Fronk Pierce..•_...J. G. W. F. V. Keesling ...... _....J. G. W. Wm. Porker Filmer.....____ 6, T.
Edward Colemen........•...G. T. Wm. Porker Filmer.......... G. T. John Whicher••••...........•.•6. S.
George Johnson -···--G· S. John Whicher..................G. S. Thomes J. Beker....- ........G. L.
Thomes J. Beker·-··-·······G. L Thomes J. Beker....- ........ G. L

1908

1914

Oscar uwler
..
G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe ............ G. M.
East Gata No. 290
San Barnardlno No. 348
Bom Aprll 2, 1875
Born Fab. 8, 1874
Died Oct. 30, 1938
W. Fronk Pierce........ D. G. M.
Dene R. Weller __S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe.._ .......J. G. W. F. V. Keesling ... _ .....S. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T. W. Rh. Hervey..........J. G. W.
John Whicher____________ G. S. Wm. Porker Filmer..........G. T.
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L. John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomes J. Baker...·--·-···G· L.
1909
W. Fronk Pierce _________G. M.
1915
Oakland No. 188
Albert G. Burnett........-6. W.
Born Jan. I&, 1855
Santa Rosa No. 57
Diad Oct. 3, 1910
Born April 9i 185&
Died Aug. lb, 1923
Dene R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe ______ s, G. W. F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer _ _J, G. W. Wm. Rh. Hervey......S. G. W.
Edward Colemen.______G. T. Bradford Weluter....J. G. W.
John Whicher________G. S. Wm. Porker Filmer..........G. T.
Thomes J. Bek.er_________ G, L John Whicher________..G. S.
Thomes J. Beker...- ........G. L
1910
Dene R. Weller.......... _.G. M.
1916
So. Cellfomla No. 218
Francis V. Keesling ..- .... G. M.
Born March 24, 1174
Callfornla No. I
Dlad Jan. 9, 1947
Born Fab. 17, 1877
A. J. Monroe..... _..... D. G. M. Wm. Rh. Hervey...... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer.._._S. G. W. Bradford Webster....S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey __.I, G. W. Ches. A. Adems.....•..J. G. W.
Edward Colemen._______ 6. T. Wm. Porker Filmer......._.G. T.
John Whlcher.---·-·6• S. John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomes J. Beker...·-···-···G• L. Thomes J. Baker........- ..-G. L.

1911

1917

463

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1920

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dec.24, 18&7
Died March 8, 1934
Som. E. Burke............D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sherman ......S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crites........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher...•.............. G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L.

1921
Samuel E. Burke.....- .....G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Wm. A. Sherman...... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites.._....S. G. W.
David J. Reese..........J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer...- .....G. T.
John Whicher.....•....... _. __6. S.
Thomes J. Beker_________ &, L

1922
William A. Shermen ...... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Dlad Fab. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crites........ D. 6. M.
David J. Reese ..... ___ S. G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton.-....J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer.....- ...G. T.
John Whicher.•................G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L.

1923

Alonzo J. Monroe....- ..6. M. Wm. Rhodes Hervey....G. M. Arthur S. Crites ______6, M.
Humboldt No. 79
Bakersfield No. 224
Pentalpha No. 202
Bom Oct. 19 1858
Born Fab. 4, 1879
Bom March 26, 1870
Died June I~, 1922
David
Bradford
J. Reese ....- .. D. G. M.
Webster
....
D.
6.
M.
Wm. P. Fllmer.. _ ..D. 6. M.
J. D. Murphey_____ s. G. W. Ches. A. Adems........S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton........S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe.. _.J. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ........J. G. W. Geo. L Jones..---·-···J• G. W.
Edward Colemen__.....-6. T. Wm. Porker Filmer.....- ...6. T. Wm. Porker Filmer.. _...... G. T.
John Whlcher---··-·····6• S. John Whlcher____............ G. S. John Whicher-- --··········-6· S.
Thomes J. Beker........•_...G. L Thomes J. Beker..............G. L. Thomes J. Beker..............G. L.

1912

1918

1924

Wm. P. Filmer................ G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born March 2, 18&&
Dlad Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett __J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.....-_.G. T.
John Whlcher____G. S.
Thomes J. Baker_ _ _G, L

Bradford Webster ........G. M.
Live Oak No. 61
· Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941
Ches. A. Adems........ D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ........S. G. W.
Som. E. Burli:e _________ .J, G. W.
Wm. Porker Fllmer..........G. T.
John Whlcher________G. S.
Thomes J. Beker____ G. L

David J. Reese..............G. M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Born Au9. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. G. M.
Geo. L Jones............S. G. W.
Will H. Fischer..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher....---···--6. S.
Thomes J. Beker.·--···-··6• L

1925

Albart E. Boynton.____ G. M.
Orovllle No.103
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Dlad Fab. 22, 1941
Geo. L Jones..._______ D. 6. M.
Will H. Fischer.....- ...S. G. W.
Gus. A. Huteff_______J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer...•.••-G. T.
John Whicher....·-·-······G· S.
Thomes J. Beker.________ G. L

1926

George L JoneL_______ G, M.
Madison No. a
Born May II, 1873
Will H. Fischer_____ D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff._•...•.S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg.._J, G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer...- .....G. T.
John Whicher..·-··-··-·····G· S.
Thomas J. Baker.........-...G. L

1931

1937

1932

1938

Robt. B. Gaylord .....--G. M. James T. Fraser_ _ _&. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Oakland No. 188
Bom Nov. 24, 1876
Bom Au9. 28, 1868
Frank W. Mixter...... D. G. M. Leon 0. WhitselL•.. D. G. M.
James B. Gist_____s. G. W. William H. Weste....S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton...- .....J. G. W. William B. Ogden_..J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ...G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S. John Whicher.._ .............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L. Leslie E. Wood _________G. L
Frank W. Mixter........- ..G. M. Leon 0. WhitselL.......G. M.
Exeter No. 424
Orange Grove No. 293
Born Dec. 30, 1873
Born July 10, 187&
Dlad May 22, 1947
William
H. Weste.... D. 6. M.
James B. Gist.....- ... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton..___ s. G. W. William B. Ogden.._s. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ______J. 'G. W. Lloyd E. Wilson ___J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T. Wm. Porker Filmer....- ...6. T.
Whicher........·--·····G. S.
John Whicher..................G. S. John
Leslie E. Wood ......._______ G. L
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

1927

1933

1928

1934

1939

Will H. Flscher.....•____ G, M. Jomes B. Gist.•___________ G. M. William B. Ogden...- ...6. M.
Wilshire No. 445
Hollywood No. 355
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Sept. 11, 1875
Born Aug. 2&, 1876
Born Aug. B, 1868
Gus. A. HutefL..- ... D. G. M. R. V. Whiting.•.......... D. G. M. Lloyd E. Wilson........ D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg....S. G. W.
Frank M. Smith..- •..S. G. W.
J. S. Ross. _ _ _ _J, G. W. Earl Warren ..............S. G. W. Leslie E. Wood __J, G. W.
Wm. Porker Rlmer._____ G. T. Rollie W. Miller........J. G. W. Wm. Parker Fllmer.... _ ..G. T.
John Whicher____ _G. S. Wm. Parker Fllmer..........G. T. John Whicher__________ G. S.
Thomes J. Beker________ G, L John Whicher.....____ G. S. Walter Leonard ___ .6, L
Thomes J. Beker........- ...G. L
Gustav A. Huteff___ G, M.
Randolph V. Whiting.... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 'l97
King Solomon No. 260
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg.... D. G. M. Earl Warren .............. D. G. M.
J. S. Ross_______s. G. W. Rollie W. Miller........S. G. W.
Robt. B. Geylord_.J. G. W. James T. Fraser_______J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer. _____G. T.
Wm. Porker Filmer..........G. T. John
Whicher__________ G. S.
John Whlcher________.. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ...__________ G. L.
Thomes J. Beker·---····-···G. L

1929

1935

C. M. Wollenberg..____ G. M. Earl Werren.____________ G, M.
Sequoia No. 349
Starr King No. 344
Bom March 19, 1891
Born March 13, 1873
John S. Ross _______ D, G. M. Rollie W. Miller__ D. G. M.
Robt. B; Geylord._...S. G. W. James T. Fraser...- ...S. G. W.
Fronk W. Mixter._..J. G. W. Leon 0. Whitsell......J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Rlmer.. _.G. T. Wm. Parker Rlmer...- .....6. T.
John Whicher.____ G. S. John Whicher....•_____ 6. S.
Thomes J. Beker........- ... 6. L Leslie E. Wood.______ G, L

1930

John Stewert Ross ____ G. M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21, 1879
Robt. B. Gaylord ...... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter........ S. G. W.
Jomes B. Gist.__J, G. W.
Wm. Porker Rlmer____ G. T.
John Whicher_ _ _6. S.
Thomes J. Beker._ _ G. L.

1936
Rollie W. Miller...______ G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Bom Oct. 17, 1883
James T. Fraser........ D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whlhell......S. G. W.
William H. Waste ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer...-.G. T.
John Whicher_________.6. S.
Leslie E. Wood ____ G, L

1940

Uoyd E. Wilson.....___ G. M.
lngleslde No. 630
lorn Aug. 16, 1895
Frank M. Smith .......... D. 6. M.
Leslie E. Wood ...- ...S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......-.6· T.
John Whicher.•..._____G. S.
Walter Leonard .......____ 6, L

1941

Frank M. Smith ________ G, M.
East Gate No. 2'0
lam Aprll I, 1894
Died April 7, 1'51
Leslie E. Wood ..- .... D. 6. M.
Claude H. Morrison ..S. G. W.
G. C. DeForest.._.J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Fllmer...... _..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..._____6, S.
Chester H. Warlow..... _.G. L.

1942
Leslie E. Wood ..............G. M.
Provident No. 609
Born April 2, 1897
Claude H. Morrison .. D. 6. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.._.G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.___6, S.
Chester H. Warlow._.6, L

464

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1943

1946

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1949

Claude H. Morrison._.G, M. John R. Moore_________G. M. Ellsworth Meyer ··-·-···-6. M.
San Dlet,10 No. 35
Meridian No. 647
Llberal Arts No. 677
Born July 10, 1887
Born S.pt. 1893
Born Feb, 27, 1905
Gilbert C, Defomt.. D. G. M. Chester H. Warlow.. D. G. M. Arthur Paulsen.....- ..D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..$. G, W. Edward H. Siems..__$, G. W. Louis E. Drapeau......$. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W. Ellsworth Meyer__J, G. W. Arthur M. Warren....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling. __6. T. Francis V. Keesling ...•....G. T. Francis V. Keesling...- ..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson_____G, S. Lloyd E. Wilson._____.....G. S. Lloyd
E. Wilson.......___G, S.
Chester H. Warlow.______G, L Arthur M. Warren..........G. L.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L.

1944
Gilbert C. Deforest__G , M.
Readlnt,1 No. 254

1947

1950

Chester H. Warlow......G. M. Arthur Paulsen ___6, M.
Fresno No. 247
Trinity No. 27
Born S.pt, 18, 1889
Born June 30, 1889
Born May 4, 1890
Lawrence C. Kelley.. D. G. M.
Edward
H.
Siems
......
D.
G.
M.
Louis
C. Drapuu ____D, G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..$. G. W.
John R. Moore...._____J, G. W. Ellsworth Meyer.._....S. G. W. Arthur M, Warren....$. G. W,
Francis V, Keesling _____G, T. Arthur Paulsen...•....J. G. W. Frank Harwell, Jr_J, G. W.
Uoyd E. Wilson________G. S. Francis V. Keesling._.G, T. Francis V. Keesllng.__G, T.
Chester H. Warlow.._....G. L. Lloyd E. Wilson .......____G, S. Uoyd E. Wilson_ ______s, S.
Arthur M. Warren ......_G. L Walter H, E. von Konsky G.L.

1945

Lawrence C. Kelley......G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oc;t. 24, 1945
Arthur W. Brouillet......G. M.
Park No. 440
Born Jan. 21, 1114
John R. Moore_______$. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng. ___6. T.
Uoyd E. Wllson _____G. S.
Chester H. Warlow_6, L.

1948
Edward H. Siems..........6. M.
Plymoath No. 560
Born December 7, 1903
Ellsworth Meyer......_D, G. M.
Arthur Paulsen.. _____$, G. W.
Louis C. DrapHu____J, G. W.
Francis V. Keesling.-.G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............G. S.
Arthur M. Warren ..........6. L.

1951
Louis C. Drapeau...._....G. M.
Poinsettia No. 633
Born Aut,1. 30, 1885
Arthur M. Warren .. D. G, M.
Frank Harwell, Jr-...S. G. W.
Henry C. Clausen___J, G. W.
Francis V. Keesling........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson......_____6. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L.

465

LIST OF INSPECTORS
lnapector•

Date of Commission

District

Clark H. Shaw........................................................July, 1911............•.............. _...622
Karl L. Ratzer............................................January 1, 1921................................572
John M. Icardo_________ ..........................-.......January, 1921................................380
Ralph M. Foote..·-····-·--····-··-···-······September 5, 1922................................228
S. Leslie Hawken -·--······-··-··-·-···-··.January 27, 1925................................364
Clarence L. Fraser...- .............................December, 1927................................424
Wm. S. Thompson.....~................._ .................March, 1928...............- ...............412
Rudolph Mohr, Jr......---·--·····----·-. _ ...January, 1929................................334
Geo. P. Salm ............................._....~ .............June 14, 1930................................538
Niles 0. ·Millar.......................................- .............July, 1932................................346
Thomas B. Pollard........................................January, 1933................................316
H. R. Hargrave....................................September 15, 1934..·-·····················--····418
Chas. H. Knights..................................December 28, 1934................................646
Alexander D. Potts....................................January 1, 1935................................384
John Behrens .................................._ .._.January 2, 1935................................378
Chas. S. Hogan..........·-··-··---··· -----······-April, 1935................................106
Carl C. Mikesell...................-.........................October, 1935................................604
Samuel Dollar ...........................-·-······-····.December, 1935................................416
Willard G. Babcock................................January 10, 1936...........................- ...616
James W. Robinson............................- .......January, 1936................................206
Wm. L. Davis.---··- ·······-···-··-·-··-·------October, 1936................................502
William C. Gover............................. _ ..........October, 1936................................110
Carl F. Peters...............- ........................Novembe~ 1, 1936................................534
George S. Ward......................._........- .......January 1, 1937.·-··-··-····-·····----··lM
Lucas Shaffer...............- ...........................January 1, 1937.......................- ..- ....21:1
Gustaf A. B. Quick............................•..- .........June 5, 1937................................510
Fred Weed........•...................- .............:.....September, 1938................................642
George L. Stivers..............................:.......November, 1938.................................210
Guido de Ghetaldi........................................October, 1938................................306
Roy S. Lenthall .............................................January, 1939.................,..............354
J. Wesley Sibole..........................................December, 1939..............._...............224
Ralph K. Pierson................................................May 6, 1940................................566
J. Tyler Parker, Jr...................................September, 1940..............-··•······--···514
Harold S. Morrison......... _.....................December 1, 1940...........................- ...512
Henry Kaiser....................................................April _1, 1941...........................- ...408
Rolla L. Eubanks................................................Apnl, 1941..............·---······--···320
Nels H. J ohnson........................................J anuary 6, 1942................................372
Miles J. McClelland....................................March 10, 1942...................- ...........218
Orville L. Coburn..........................................March 3, 1943...............- ..............430
Elmer M. Hopper............................................May 10, 1943................................304
Hei:irr S. Savage, Jr..................- .....................July 4, 1943................................352
Melvm R. Berbower............................November 10, 1943................................624
Frederic E. Clark.........................- .........January 26, 1944................................530
Earl Stewart...----···········--··········-··-······.February 6, 1944..........._...................220
Ray W. Mclntyre.............-···-·--············-.March 8, 1944................................374
John Simpson.................................................March 8, 1944......................._ ......214
Leo E. Anderson......._..........- ........................May 17, 1944... _...........................528
John Ramsay......................................................July 5, 1944................................620
Dwight C. Freeman...............- ............_.......March 2, 1945.-.............................548
James B. Lawson..........................................March 6, 1945...- ..........................426
Arch Balchin. ...............................................March 27, 1945.................:..............414
Floyd H. Watson...................·-·-------··.March 30, 1945................... _ ..........504
Charles C. Hale............. _............................_..July 2, 1945...................- ...........404
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................September 27, 1945................................322

466

GRAND LOPGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

lrupector•

Date of Commission
Distrid
Alexander Duncan......................................October 9, 1945..·-······················-···102
Robert W. Nicol.......................................October 24, 1945................................612
W. Corell Smith....·-··-························.December 20, 1945................................222

Louis L. Cunningham...................- ...........August 2, 1946...........................- ...538
Ralph Anderson......................................November 4, 1946..·-··················-·······360
James G. Disher..... _...........................November 12, 1948................................350
Frank W. Johnson................................November 21, 1946................................544
John A. Crosbie....................................November 21, 1946................................532
Arch T. Roberson. ..................................-...January 1, 1947...........................- ...403
Ray R. Bell........·-····-··························-·· -··-··.April 7, 1947...........................- ...632
Stephen E. Skidmore..............................-·-··.April 7, 1947-·-···························608
Fred C. Pritschke............................................April 7, 1947.......................- .......428
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr...........................September 8, 1947................................540
Harry Burrows ....................................December 15, 1947................................302
Russell Northrop..................................December 20, 1947................................624
Rush Manbert........................................December 20, 1947.......................- .......330
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.........................December 29, 1947................................356
Howard S. Kaulbach............................December 29, 1947...........- ...................358
Haiman L. Wayne.........- .....................December 29, 1947................- ...............328
Stanley Hurst Wentz..................................March 16, 1948..·-··················-·······226
Roy T. Kiele....._.............................................April 22, 1948................................542
William T. Rodger................................._.......April 22, 1948................................628
Howard Laurent...................................- .........June 19, 1948...- ...........................518
Robert N. Walker............................·-········-···July 28, 1948...........................- ...368
Elmer Glen Van Tassell...................September 11, 1948..·-······-··················-112
Reginald Reynolds................................November 5, 1948........... _...................108
Donald G. CampbelL...............................January 1, 1949................................516
L. Everett Richardson........................~.....January 1, 1949................................308
Albert E. Carroll.......................................January 7, 1949...........................- ...610
Louis H. Mahler-·····························-·······January 31, 1949...- ...........................520
Orin Compton..·-··············-············-······.February 9, 1949................................420
John A. Owen....•...........·························-······.May 16, 1949....... - .......................550
Chas. A. Thomasset........................................June 28, 1949................................570
Eric Wm. Nelson............................................June 30, 1949................................202
William Nankervis, Jr......... ·-····-·······-·-·..June 30, 1949.......- .......................362
Eugene P. Jijine..................................September 16, 1949......- ........................382
Wilson Ernest Lathrop..............................October 1, 1949...............- ...............410
Robert H. Taylor....................................November 7, 1949................................348
Herbert H. Schultz..................................January 16, 1950................................340
Maurice E. Co:frey....................................January 16, 1950................................342
Perry M. Spencer....................................January 16, 1950................................336
Arthur J. Kahn......- ................................January 16, 1950................................344
Jack Mast..................................................January 16, 1950................................310
Harvey Browning....................................Januaiy 16, 1950.......- .......................318
Earl Caldwell......................_...................January 16, 1950...- ...........................324
Delbert E. Luck.........................................- ...April 14, 1950................................406
Elmer R. Lotz..._.............................................April 14, 1950................................522
Elvin C. Drake..........................................._...April 14, 1950...- ...........................526
John Brlght...........................................- ...........May 8, 1950................................602
Anson McArthur........................·-················-··.May 8, 1950................................552
Albert V. Youngs..·-································-··-··.May 8, 1950......·-··················- ···554
Chas. W. Lunsford..................._.......................May 8, 1950................................556
Martin 0 . Veland...............................- .............May 8, 1950................................558
Wm. E. Keogh..·--········-········-······-····--······.May 8, 1950......·-··········-······-···560
Paul Thompson.....- ...........................................May 8, 1950...........................- ...li82
Myron E. Roudebush........................................May 8, 1950..·-··-··············-·······626
W. Ben Sorrells..._.............................................May 8, 1950................................634
Hugh D. Good..·--····················-·····················.May 8, 1950.......- .......................638
Ted R. Siems....·-··-··················-··--·············..May 8, 1950................................614
William N. Pedder.................- .........................May 8, 1950........................... _...564

lrupectors

Date of Commission

Distrid

Leland E. Wallace..........................- .....September 7, 1950................................204
Walter Edward Sanner......................November 24, 1950................................326
Frank W. Raddatz................................November 24, 1950...........................- ...546
Olen F. Turner......................................November 24, 1950................................630
Joseph Myron Ruggiero....................December 21, 1950................................332
Arthur Boone................... _...................December 21, 1950................................506
Guy S. Harts, Sr....- .............................December 21, 1950................................508
f°red' T. Moore....·-································-··.January 6, 1951.......................- .......618
J. Ralph DawdY···--·································January 26, 1951...- ...........................422
Andre L. Armand..................... _.............January 26, 1951................................276
Robert McGarva.........................................March 11, 1951................................109
Ellis Shelton Bass......................................March 11, 1951................................120
Jack Walton Leishman..................................May 18, 1951................................337
El:ffier Gaylord ~QU:i.iin'.".=::.~..·..:.......'..~..:.::::...May• 18;· 1951.::............................367 ~
Loren Alton Lloyd,.........................................May 18, 1951................................370
Jennings E. Muir................................... _.......July 10, 1951................................432
Thomas B. Copeland..........................September 29, 1951...........................- ...114
Joseph H. White....._.................................October 18, 1951..........·-··-···············116
GeOrge H. Olmsted..................................October 18, 1951................................216·
Reginald Bunce........................................October 23, 195L...............................545
Charles Joseph Savage..........................November 6, 1951................................640
Kent 0. Seymour................................November 15, 1951...............- ...............314
Edward Guirado....................................December 12, 1951................................568
Carl F. La Vo......·-··············-··············.December 15, 1951...- ...........................366
Carroll C. Doane...................................-...January 1, 1952................................307
Ralph Geo. Riches...............................- ...January 10, 1952................................338

468

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Recogniz11tl anti ;,, Pf'illemal Relalions wi1h 1he
Gf'antl Lotlg11 of California

Bolivia:
Isaac Saravia Noriega, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564,
La Paz, Bolivia.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Raymundo Coqueiro Mendes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
Satyro Brandoa, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes N. 21, Bahia, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relatiom
Caixa Postal N. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Luiz Nepomucemo de Mattos, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Orlando Rego Luna, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
Francisco da Silva Costa, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Jacy Garnier de Bacellar, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFleury, Grand Secty., Rel Ext,
Caixa Postal 2611, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
J.M. Magalhaes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
Canada:
AlbertaGeorge Moore, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbiaW. R. Simpson, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
ManitobaDr. Peter T. Pilkey, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotiaReginald V. Harris. Grand Secty.•
Freemasons' Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia

Prince Edward IslandL. A. McDougall. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
QuebecW. W. Williamson, Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Dr. J. Eduardo Pastene, Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves Bolanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba. Isle of:
Dr. Jose F. Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
•czecho-Slovakia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeK. J. Nilsson, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Ecuador:
Augusto Jijon T., Grand Secty.,
Casilla No. 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S. A.
Egypi1

The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Sayed Kami! El Sharkawy,
Beite Postale No. 1714, Cairo, Egypt.
England:
Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Finland:
Eino Kyllonen, Grand Secty.,
Vyokatu 9 B-14, Helsinki, Finland.
*France:
Independent National Grand Lodge.
*Germany:
The Grand Lodge of Saxony.
Grand Lodge "Concord" at Darmstadt.
Grand Lodge "German Fraternal Chain" at Leipzig.
Grand National Mother Lodge of the Prussian States,
"The Three Globes" at Berlin.

469

470

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Grand Lodge of Hamburg.
The Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union at Frankfort.
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship at Berlin.
The National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons at Berlin
The Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" at Bayreuth.
·
Greece:
Dr. Antonios Rammos, Grand Secty.,
58 Ioulianou St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala:
Oscar Paz Pinto, Grand Secty..
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A.
Honduras:
Constantino S. Ramos, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.
Ireland:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dubli.D., Ireland.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
William Webber, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Alfonso Gomez Pereyra, Grand Sec.,
Apartado 42, Tujuana, Baja California.
Independent Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino1 Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
Esteban Leal Villareal, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 390, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Jose I. Casarrubias, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Angel Galindo Cruz, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Alejandro Garcia Bustos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherla.nds:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. A. A. Galestin, Grand Secty..
22 Fluweelen Burgwal, The Hague.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secretary,
Masonic Hall, Sidney, N.S.W.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

New Zealand:
H. A. Lamb, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 1193, Wellington, New Zeland.
Nicaragua:
Agustin Vanegas P., Grand Secty.
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
Odd Lie-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurerlogen, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
W. Julio Icaza, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Republic of Panama.
Peru:
Jorge Torres Ugarriza, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
520 San Marcelino, Manila. P. L
Puerto Rico:
Angel M. Torres, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
E. G. Radford, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.
Salvador (Cu1callan):
Carlos Alfonso Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
San Salvaclor, C. A.
Scotland:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty.•
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
Eric Hallin. Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland: ·
Grand Lodge Swisse Alpina,
Alfred Siza, Grand Secty.,
25, Bd. du Pont - d'Arve, 25, Geneva, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
H. A. Wilkinson, Grand Secty.,
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venezuela:
Napoleon Camacho B., Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.

i71

472

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Victoria:
United Grand Lodge.
W. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
*Vienna:
Western Australia:
F. W. M. Sanders, Grand Secty..
G. P. 0. Box D-177, Perth, Australia.
*Yugoslavia:
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.
•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to being rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

473

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alto Loma (643), Signal Hill.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224) 1 Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526),.San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
· Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), San Leandro.

Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.

474

PROCEEDINGS OP nm.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.

Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.

Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

475

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.

Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles •
Hartler (199), Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Huntin~ton Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntmgton Beach.

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (633), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), China Lake.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A. Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669) San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles .
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.

Keystone (161), Milton.
Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.

Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La Puenta (446), Puenta.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
p

Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
· Lassen (149), Susanville.
Lomita (644)t Torrance.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lompoc (2621, Lompoc.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Lorenzo (709), Hayward.
Honolulu, T. H.
Los Altos (812), Palo Alto.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles. Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Livingston (658), Liv,ingston.

M
Madera (280), Madera. ·
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara
Magnolia Park 715), Burbank.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Martinez (41), Martinez..
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Mountain View (194),
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain View.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Menlo Park (651), Palo Alto.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Military Service (570), San Francisco. Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.

North Butte (230). Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Penrhyn (358), Peruyn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

477

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R

Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s

Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Marino (685), South Pasadena.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino.Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
San Diego (35), San Die~o.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona
San Dimas (428), San Drmas.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando. Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula
San Francisco (360), San Francisco. Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Los Olivos
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks,
Sanger (316), Sanger.
T. H.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Seafaring (708), Costa Mesa.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Seaport (550), San Francisco,

478

479

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued

Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184)~Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long .l::Seach.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Sincerity (13~); Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.

South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
White Pine (555), Weed.
Warren G. Harding (579),
Whittier (323), Whittier.
North Sacramento.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Willits (365), Willits.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westchester (703), Los Angeles.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Woodridge (131), Woodridge.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles. Woodstock (491), Alameda.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

I

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California, 1951

8. Concerning the physical disqualiB.cations of candidates for the
honors of Freemasonry.
9. Concerning the education of youth, and charitable institutions .
Now one hundred years later our Committee is pleased to present
herewith the reviews of the proceedings of all the Grand Jurisdictions
that have come to us since the last Grand Communication of the Grand
Lodge of California. Has Masonry changed in 100 years? How many of
these problems of 100 years ago are still with us? Our Committee studied
and examined the Communications of 60 Foreign and Domestic Grand
Lodge Communications to find out.

.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
FOREWORD
It has been said, "Nothing is quite as dead as yesterday's news,"
yet I feel we may look back with some profit to the review of Masonic
thought of one hundred years ago and compare it with Masonic problems and happenings of today.
The first Committee on Foreign Correspondence in California was
composed of a group of four very distinguished Masons. Levi Stowell,
the chairman, was the first Grand Treasurer. Benjamin D. Hyam was the
first Senior Grand Deacon. J. D. Stevenson was the first Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons in California. The fourth member was the
renowned Past Grand Master of Maryland, Charles Gilman. who was
the presiding officer when three Lodges met on the morning of April 17,
1850, for the purpose of considering the propriety of establishing a
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons for the State of California.
This first Correspondence Committee presented their report one
hundred years ago on November 5, 1851, and stated that they had
reviewed the published proceedings of sixteen Grand Lodges, Maine,
Vermont, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, New York, Maryland, District of Columbia, Virginia, North Carolina, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Missouri, Mississippi, Arkansas, and Florida. Accident, they
said, had probably prevented the reception of others.
The Committee stated that among the various subjects of greater or
less importance which had engaged the attention of their Sister Grand
Lodges during the past two years might be mentioned the following:
.1. The difficulties in the Grand Lodge of New York.
2. The propriety of organizing a Supreme or General Grand Lodge
of the United States.
3. The encroachment upon the territorial jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of New York by the Grand Lodge of Hamburg.
i. The prerogatives of a Grand Master in and out of Grand Lodge.
5. Whether Master Masons, not members of Grand Lodge, should
.be permitted to be present during the transaction of certain business
therein.
6. Whether it is competent for a Master of a Lodge, or even for the
Lodge itself, to demand of a member his reasons for voting against an
applicant for degrees, or for membership.
7. Whether the ballot ·should be taken prior to the conferring of
each degree.

481

In order to clarify the issues and present them in their current application we have grouped these topics into fourteen s4bject headings.
The first seven deal with the issues just mentioned, the remainder relate
to recent problems which are a part of Masonic thought today.
Regarding the split in the New York Grand Lodge and the troubles
over territorial jurisdiction, these questions have been settled long ago.
They are just memories of the past.
On the question of balloting, I think today that we will all agree that
a Mason is responsible to no human power for the vote that he casts on
the petition of a candidate. To his own conscience alone is he to answer
for the motives that have led to the act itself. The whole object of the
secret ballot would otherwise be defeated.
On the question of whether or not a separate ballot should be taken
prior to the conferring of each degree, it seems to be the concensus of
opinion today that only one ballot is necessary and not three.
The question or propriety of organizing a Supreme Grand Lodge of
the United States had many adherents one hundred years ago. California
seemed to be strongly in favor of it. One difficulty seemed to be the lack
of agreement upon the provisions of a general constitution. Increased
interest in the next few years led to the calling of a convention of delegates from several of the Grand Lodges at Lexington, Kentucky, on
September 17, 1853, and later a general meeting of delegates of all
Grand Lodges at Washington, D. C., on January 3, 1855.
Yet today after reviewing sixty Domestic and Foreign Grand Lodge
Communications we find only one reference to a World Organization or
to a United or General Grand Lodge, and that was in the writings of
our Missouri correspondent who, as he says, has been preaching unification these many, many years.
Regarding Masoni~ thought of a century ago. the question of
Masonic Charity would probably be most predominant. We in California saw the influx of thousands of people in a mad stampede to the
gold fields. Hundreds of these newcomers were Masons. Soon came disillusionment. sickness, and destitution. It therefore happened in the fall
of 1849 and the following winter that large numbers of Masons as well

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as others left the mines for Sacrame nto for medtcal advice and nursing
care. Immediately a group of Masons came to the rescue and started a
hospital to take care of the influx. This was real Masonic Charity with
no thought of recompense. This group of Masons raised and paid out
over $32,000, and soon were in arrears about $14,000. That was v.r_hen
a Circular was sent to all Grand Lodges appealin g for help.

On the physical qualifications of candidat es for the honors of
Masonry the Correspo ndence Committee of 1851 expresse d surprise that
there should have been a difference of opinion on this subject. "Let a
Mason ask himself," they said, "Wheth er the candidat e who is blinnl.
or deaf, or who has lost a leg or an arm is capable of acquiring a knowledge of Masonry , so as to impart the same to another? Whethe r he is
capable of making himself known as a Mason, under all circumstances
in the dark as well as ~he light? His answer to these simple questions:
as answer them he can in but one way, will supersed e all argumen t upon
this subject."
Today there is a wide divergence .of opinion on this question. The
trend seems to be towards relaxatio n of strict physical requirements for
petitioners, especially since World War II.
New problems confronting Masonic Lodges at the present time such
as the Blood Bank, Public Schools Week, the Liquor Question , Youth
Organiza tions, and Communism will be taken up in detail in our report.
As Cor~espondence Chairma n, I offer my "Apolog ia." The topical
form of review seemed to me to present the possibility of greater unification and simpliflcation of the ideas of Masonry througho ut the world
today. This Correspo ndence Committee wanted their report to be of
sufficient interest to be read •b y thinking Masons in all parts of our
country. It was with this end in view that hours of reading, research,
editing, writing and re-writing were spent on this report.
It is the hope of this Committee that reports of Correspo ndence
Committees be read in the individual Lodges in order that all Masons
may know atid appreciate, and become better acquaint ed with the prob..
lems and achievements of Masonry in this world of ours today.

482

Today, I think, we would agree that our greatest Masonic charity
is the money that all of us contribu te to our Masonic homes. Millions of
dollars annually are given cheedull y by three and one-half million
Masons in the United States to support directly our Masonic homes and
hospitals, and indirectly through the granting of relief to help care for
our needy elderly brethren , their wives, and orphan children.
Naturall y costs are rising. Many Grand Lodges are raising the per
capita tax. Some Jurisdictions are substitut ing direct relief rather than
giving institutional care.
Do crises occur now as they did in Californ ia in 18507 Yes, brethren ,
they may occur any time and any place. Today's papers (July 15, 1951)
tell us of the devastat ing floods which are wrecking and destroyin g
Kansas City, Missouri.
Last year an appeal went out by the Most Worship ful Harry Coddington, Grand Master of Manitob a, asking for aid to help his stricken
Grand Lodge caused by tremendous floods in his province. Not long
before a heart rending appeal for aid came from the Grand Lodge of
Ecuador . You probably remember the disastrou s and terrifyin g earthquake which struck that country.
In 1851, the Grand Master said, "I would recommend that steps be
at once taken in regard to the educating of the children of Masons. I
notice other sister Grand Lodges, as well as Lodges in Europe are
engaged with much attention in this very importan t subject, and I trust
we will by judicious action be enabled to imitate them."
This question of educatin g the youth of our country seemed then
uppermost in the minds of many Grand Lodge officers. Many Europea n
jurisdictions taxed their respective members to aid in supporti ng their
schools. Here in the United States, Missouri, Kentucky, Texas, Alabama
and others had Masonic Colleges and Primary Schools.
Our Grand Masters in Californ ia at every Communication emphasized our duty to provide for the education of children of Masonic parents who needed help and for the educatio n of orphans of deceased
Masons.
Masonic Educatio n today has shifted towards the support and sponsoring of "Youth Organiza tions," the support and backi~g of the Pu~lic
School System, and more and more towards the instructing or educating
of the initiate and candidat e in the three degrees of Masonry .

JOSEPH A. PIVERNE TZ
JAMES K. FISK
NEWCOM B CONDEE
HERBERT G. POLHILL
OLSEN
OSCAR
CLYDE 0. HUGHES
MERLE E. FRANTZ

c.

483

484

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

485

PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED
United States
INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Page

Alabama
Arizona
Arkansas

1960
------·-----1960
1960

Balloting ................................................................................................ 487

Colorado - - - Connecticut ____...

A Supreme Grand Lodge ...................................................................... 488

Delaware - - · - - - - - - - - - - 1 9 1 1 0
District of Columbia__.
1960

Masonic Homes ·····························································-····················· 489
Masonic Charity .................................................................................... 497

Florida
Georgia
Idaho

·--19110
-1960
1960

Illinoia

·---1960

Masonic Education .............................................................................. 500
Physical Qualifkations ·················································-····················· 508
Powers of the Grand Master................................................................. 516
Blood Bank ............................................................................................ 51 7
Public Schools Week ............................................................................ 520
The Liquor Question ............................................................................ 522
Youth Organizations ............................................................................ 527

.. 1960
1960

Indiana ------··
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine - - Maryland --·
Maoaachusetto
Michigan
Minnesota
Ml..lsslppl

1960
19110
1961
1960
1910, 1961
·--1960
__...1960
1949
1960
960
1960, 1961

Missouri - · - - - - - - - · - - - 1 9 6 0
Montana
1160
Nebraska
·--------1960
Nevada
·----1960
New Hampshire ·-·
·---·----1960
New J'erae:v---·
·-----1960
New Mexico - - - - - - - - - 1 . 9 6 0 , 1961
North Carolina - - ·
1960
North Dakota - - - · ·
· 1960
Ohio
1960
Oregon - · - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 6 0
Rhode Island
··------1160
South Carolina
1960
South Dakota - - - - - - - - - - - . 1 . 9 6 0
Tennessee
1961
Vermont - - - - - - Virginia

960
-1910

Washington - - - - - - · - - - - - - 1 9 6 0
West Virginia
--------1160
Wloconsln - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 6 0
1910
Wyoming - - - · - - - - -

Masonry vs. Communism...................................................................... 533
Comments Regarding California Centennial ...................................... 538

Foreign Jurisdictions

''Gold Diggings'' .................................................................................. 540
Alberta - - - - - - - - -

1910

Canada - - - - - - - - - ·---1960
New Brunawlck - - - - - - - - - . 1 9 6 0
Nova Scotia - - ·---1960
Prince Edward X.lanL.--------1949
Sukatchewan
.1960
Victoria - - - - - - - - - - - . 1 1 4 9

New Zealand - - - - - - - - - - 1 9 4 9
New South Wales
960
South Australia - ·
1960
Western Australia - - - - - - - - - 1 9 6 0
Tasmania _
910
York Grand Lodge of Mexico. .._ _ _ _19110
England ·-

960

486

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

BALLOTING

STATISTICAL SUMMARY
American Grand Lodges
Number of
Total
Jwisdiction
For Year Ending
Lodges
Membership
Alabama.................................. July 14, 1950.......- .........
426
62,455
Arlzona .....................................Aprll 24, 1950.....·-······41
8.483
Arkansas.................................. Oct. 1, 1950.....·---···
385
51.913
Califomla....- .. ·········-·············.July 31, 1950______ _
196.800
605
150
Colorado.................................. .June 30, 1950..·-·············
40.505
130
Connecticut.............................. Jan. 1, 1950..·-··-···········
43.394
Delaware..................................June 24, 1950.........•........
6,859
22
District of Columbia ............... Sept. 30. 1950....•...........
24,876
48
Plorida......................................April 18, 1950.·--···-·····
243
46.351
Georgia.....................................Aug. 31, 1950.·- ····-······
468
80.572
ldaho.................................- ......June 30, 1950____ _ _
12.946
80
lllinols.......................................Oct. 10, 1950..·- · - -975
243.519
Indiana.....................................May 16, 1950•.. ·-----~-165,133
540
lowa..........................................June 13, 1950...·-·-······89.568
546
Kansas ......................................Dec. 31, 1950................
91,882
HO
Kentucky..................................July 31, 1950..................
470
81.936
Louislana...~ ............................. .Dec. 31, 1950.·-············
251
41.805
Maine.......................................Dec. 31, 1950............... .
45,032
207
Maryland. .................................Oct. 31. 1950..................
124
41.262
Massachusetts.........................Dec. 27, 1949---·-~····
114,260
329
Michigan ..................................April 30, 1950.....- .........
157,205
525
Mlnnesota................................March 22, 1950......·-·-60,709
292
Mlsslssippl... ............................Aug. 31, 1950--············
42.427
308
Mlssowi...................................Sept. 10, 1950......·-- ····
113,801
595
Montana...................................June 30, 1950...........---23,682
135
Nebraska..................................June 6, 1950_···· - ·-···
276
41.379
Nevada.....................................June 8, 1950·-··--·-·····
4,493
27
New Hampshlre......................May 17, 1950...•............
15.550
81
New Jersey.............................. April 18, 1950..........·- ···
282
92,375
New Mexlco............................ March 20, 1950............. .
57
10.554
NewYork................................ May 3, 1950..................
1,037
295.732
North Carolina.........................Jan. 1, 1950....................
48.473
324
North Dakota...........................June 19, 1950................. .
118
13.672
Ohio..........................................July 31, 1950..................
255,088
641
Oklahoma.................................Jan. 1, 1950....................
73,329
383
Oregon......................................June 14, 1950..................
38,191
180
Pennsylvania...........................March 1, 1950................
230,750
574
Rhode lsland...........- ...............May 15, 1950................
17,101
44
South Carolina........................March 8, 1950................
41,581
285
South Dakota...........................June 13, 1950- ···- ····-···
18,463
168
64,875
374
Tennessee. ......... ·-····-·············-Jan. 25, 1950.·--···---···
Texas........................................Dec. 31, 1949.~---········-···
191,918
908
Utah..........................................Jan. 23, 1950...........·- ···
5,807
27
Vermont................... _..............April 30, 1950................
18,492
103
Virglnia.........- ......................... Peb. 14, 1950................. .
. 58,784
330
Washington............................. Jan. 1, 1950....................
61,870
269
West Virglnia........................Aug. 31, 1950................
41,956
164
Wlsconsln................................June 13, 1950..................
61,453
304
~omlng ..- .............................Aug. 28, 1950................
l l,106
50
otaL .................................................................
15,341
3.600.367

487

Gain
2,153
344
2,310
6,257
1,233
803
155
302
3,071
3,682
405
5.552
4,182
2,095
2,403
3,739
l,820
851
1,261
2,788
3,938
l,838
1,264

1.477
422
758
200
374
2,898
493
5.322
2,378
297
6,093
2,943
J,476
6,531
420
2,323
506
3,623

9,646
112

140

2,025

4.311
1.S18
U66
339
110,537

NOTE: These statistics were taken mainly from the Grand Secretary's reportl.

The Ballot
A weapon that comes down as still
As snowflakes fall upon the sod,
But executes a freeman's will
As lightning does the will of God.
By John Pierpont
WYOMING, 1950, Committee on Jurisprudence

( 1 ) As to the proposed amendment to Sec. 537 of the Code relating
to balloting and petitions, your Committee feels that a revision of the
entire section would be preferable to the addition of a sub-section to the
present section and we therefore recommend as a substitute to the proposed amendment, the following, and recommend its adoption, to-wit:
"Sec;. 537. When more than one candidate is ready to be balloted
upon, the Master may in his discretion order the ballot to be spread upo:i
all such candidates collectively or upon each candidate separately in
such order as he may elect. If a collective ballot is ordered and it appears
clear then all of said candidates shall be deemed and declared elected to
membership. If one or more black cubes appear in such collective ballot
then such ballot shall be declared void, and a separate ballot ordered
upon each candidate in such order as the Master may elect. A clear
ballot elects each candidate to the three degrees or affiliation. Should
there appear one negative vote or black cube in the ballot box on any
individual ballot the Master SHALL order a second trial of the ballot,
but the result of the second trial shall in all cases be final and conclusive
and shall then and there ·be so declared by the ~faster and such declaration can not be set aside by the Master, the lodge, the Grand Master, or
the Grand Lodge." Adopted.
NEW YORK, 1949, Committee Report
Another proposal that was defeate~ after considerable discussion
was one that would permit each Lodge to provide in its by-laws that the
ballot on a candidate who has received an unanimous favorable report of
the Investigating Committee should require two black ballots to reject.
PENNSYLVANIA, 1950, Grand Master

Election
During recent years it has become customary to admit as guests to
the Communications of the Grand Lodge Master Masons who were not
members thereof. Inasmuch as Grand Lodge Hall at times will not conveniently accommodate all of the members of the Grand Lodge who

488

489

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

desire to attend and since in voting it is impossible to distinguish between
the members and these guests, but more especially as there is no provision in the Ahiman Rezon granting them this privilege, I have directed
that the Grand Tyler admit to subsequent Communications, only members of the Grand Lodge, i.e.• Past Masters by service and those Brethren
who at present are serving Lodges as Masters and Wardens.
I have further directed that after the Grand Lodge has been opened,
elections conducted and business, on which a vote be required, transacted, Master Masons, not members of the Grand Lodge, be admitted
as guests: provided a resolution to that effect is adopted by vote of a
majority of the members present at that Communication. However, such
guests may be required to retire if a vote becomes necessary after their
admission.

rivalry of certain competitive Masonic groups fearing that one or the
other might gain undue advantage. And so Symbolic Freemasonry
suffers.
Here in these United States we have some forty-nine Grand Lodges.
each with its Grand Master. We all must know that all Grand Masters
are not leaders: some are the products of a vicious cycle in which some
Grand Master appoints a personal friend to the foot of the line, and the
brethren, year after year, continue to advance the appointee until 6nally
he wears the purple of the fraternity. This good brother may have the
best intentions in the world: he may know all of the details of the lodges
of the l 37th District, or the working of the lodge in Podunkville, but he
lacks, not through his own fault, that necessary training which should
be required of each Grand Officer to make him realize that "Freemasonry
is an organization which unites men of every race, country and creed"
into a brotherhood of man.
The world today stands at the cross-roads of civilization. The next
decade will prove whether we are to have a peaceful world or a maelstrom of war. To our way of thinking, the section known as Western
Europe holds the key to the picture.
What are Freemasons doing about it?
Are we to follow the lead of a Grand Lodge which insists that Freemasonry must not have any spoken ideas as to what the future of this
world is to be? Are we, as an organization, to sit supinely by and permit
the Hitlers and the Mussolinis to continue their nefarious processes of
dividing the world? Adolf Hitler is dead: Benito Mussolini is dead. But
the world is ye,t full of potential Hitlers and Mussolinis eager to take up
where both laid down. That hideous ideology taught the children of
Europe is not dead. nor will it expire until that whole generation born
from 1922-40 shall have passed out of the international picture.

SOUTH DAKOTA, 1950, Grand Master
Experience is the greatest of all teachers. We recognize this fundamental fact and then fail to avail ourselves in our Grand Lodge deliberations of the greatest fund of experience, that which our Past Masters
have gathered through their Masonic careers.
We honor them, they come to Grand Lodge as Junior Warden,
Senior Warden, and 6nally as Master of their respective Lodge, and
participate in our Grand Lodge activities. And then when they should
be of greatest value to us, we relegate them to the sidelines. That ought
not to be so. Every Past Master should continue to be a member of the
Grand Lodge and have a vote and voice in its deliberations, and give us
the benefit of their experience and mature judgment.

Recommendation No. 5
I. therefore, recommend that a study be given to the feasibility of
amending our By-Laws so as to retain all Past Masters as members of
the Grand Lodge, without right to mileage, or other remuneration for
expense of attendance upon the Grand Lodge, with voting powers when
present in person, but to have no right to vote by proxy.

A SUPREME GRAND LODGE
MISSOURI, 1950, Correspondence Committee
We are growing weary of preaching-preaching-preaching the value
of an International Freemasonry. Not a World Organization under
some one power, but groups of organizations bound together by certain
mutual ties, endowed with similar ideals, and all working for a common
purpose-the Brotherhood of Man under a Fatherhood of God.
Certainly this is not too much to ask of the Masonic Fraternity, yet
when an attempt is being made to accomplish this desired purpose, we
find objections here and there, some of which may be well founded, and
others trumped up to prevent proper consideration. Again, we have the

MASONIC HOMES
In 1949 Grand Master Paul B. Habans of the state of Louisiana
appointed a committee of three who in conjunction with a similar committee from the Eastern Star were to discuss the advisability of founding
a joint Home or separate Homes for aged and infirm members of both
of the fraternal organizations. This committee recommended that a similar committee be appointed to make a thorough study of Masonic and
Eastern Star Homes, their cost, cost of operation, service and eligibility
of membership. They further recommended that questionnaires be sent
out to constituent Lodges and Eastern Star Chapters asking for such
information as the committee felt necessary before making any definite
recommendations. The recommendations of the committee were adopted.
Brother Gayle in his Correspondence Report of last year ( 1950)
under the title, "Benevolent Activities--Masonic Homes," (pages 126
to 143 of the 1950 Proceedings of Grand Lodge) with a view of inform-

490

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ing the Craft as to such matters, covered the operation, cost and maintenance of Masonic Homes and Benevolent activities of Grand Lodges in
twenty-four states, as follows: Arizona, Connecticut, Florida, Indiana,
Kentucky, Kansas, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi,
Iowa, Georgia, Nebraska, Oregon, South Carolina, New York, New
Mexico, New Jersey, New Hampshire, Vermont, Virginia, Washington,
Wisconsin and Wyoming. All brethren interested in the establishment
of a Home or Hospital for Aged or in Old Age Relief, should read this
report before coming to a definite conclusion.
During the current year, 1951, the co,mmittee made further study
of Homes and Benevolent activities in other Jurisdictions and reports
of committees of other states engaged in similar investigations. The following states are covered in the 1951 Correspondence Report: Missouri,
Arkansas, Montana, North Dakota, Colorado, District of Columbia,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Illinois and Oklahoma. In this
two-year study of Masonic Homes and Benevolent Activities the committee's report covered thirty-six states.
After studying the report very carefully the committee came to the
conclusion that the erection of "A Home for Aged" is undesirable and
recommends no action be taken at this time with reference to building or
operation of "A Home for Aged."
The committee recommended instead that Grand Lodge should set
up agencies in both Grand Lodge and in the constituent Lodges of the
State, for the administration of relief to aged or indigent Masons and
·the widows of Masons in need of assistance. A resolution was introduced covering their recommendations, and was adopted as amended
by the Joint Committees of Masonic Law and Jurisprudence and Audit
and Accounts.
·
We may conclude from this careful two-year survey that the present
time is not propitious for building "Homes for the Aged." Social welfare by the Federal Government, State aid, government restrictions on
new building, rising costs, refusal of some Grand Lodges to raise the
per capita tax for home care and building are some of the reasons given
for the trend towards direct relief rather than institutional care. It is
also said that the cost per patient in a home is exorbitant, and that more
can be done at less cost under the Field Aid System.
Arkansas found it expedient to close the Masonic Home (for children) at Batesville, tran sferring the property to Arkansas College for a
cash consideration plus 40 scholarships which the Grand Lodge will
award to deserving boys and girls. Thus the work of caring for boys
and girls needing the Grand Lodge help is taken care of without the
burden of running a Masonic Home.
In 1949 funds were raised in Indiana to build a new wing to the
Administration Building of the Masonic Home. In spite of this expansion there are serious problems as to the future maintenance of the Hom'e
and a committee was appointed to study these -problems under the fol-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

491

lowing recommendation:
"The maintenance and up-keep of the properties at the Indiana
Masonic Home at Franklin during the past year have presented to the
Board of Directors some very serious problems as to future maintenance
and what effect they might have on possible expansion plans, for with
a continuous waiting list of those whose applications for entrance have
been approved, it is apparent that this too presents another perplexing
problem.
"To aid our Board of Directors in arriving at a solution of these
problems and to assist this Grand Lodge in making decisions of future
policy, it is my recommendation that the incoming Grand Master appoint
a Study Committee of at least five members to study this problem,
determine possible trends in this phase of social work, and report their
findings to guide this Grand Lodge and its Home Board of Directors on
what should be our future policy in this great phase of Masonic benevolence. It is further recommended that the Board of Directors of the Home
shall appropriate sufficient funds to effectuate the work of this Study
Commission."
There are 364 guests at the Home, of which 77 are children. One
hundred sixty-seven applications were considered during the year. A
proposal for a special assessment of $1.00 per capita per year for five
years to take care of repairs and replacements was defeated.

IOWA, 1949 (Grand Master)
•
Received a report from the Grand Master relative to a circular letter
sent to many of the Lodges suggesting the establishment of a Masonic
Home. "I may as well state in the beginning that I am against such a
project," the Grand Master declared. "During the last twelve months
it has been my privilege to visit several other jurisdictions at the time of
Grand Lodge sessions. In each of these, where they have a Masonic
Home, there has been discussion and trouble. The cost per patient in a
Home is exorbitant. We are doing more for our less fortunate members
by our Field Work than that which is being done in those jurisdictions
that have Homes."

MISSISSIPPI, 1950
The Masonic Homes cared for twenty-one boys, nineteen girls during the year. Consideration has been given to establishing a Home for
aged adults, but the conclusion was reached that the cost would be
prohibitive and that the present method of direct relief is more desirable
than institutional care.

492

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

493

MISSOURI, 1950

VERMONT, 1949

The committee recommended that, without discontinuing the
Masonic Home of Missouri, it be the policy to take care of future
applicants as far as practical in their own homes or in such homes as
they are living at the time of application. It was found that the cost
of such relief is less, and the morale of the recipients is much better
under the plan of outside relief. Lodges are to be required to pay a portion of such outside relief. to ease the load on the Grand Lodge and at
the same time bring home to the lodges their responsibility to their
indigent brethren.

The Grand Lodge spent for charity and relief the sum of $9,000.
There is no Masonic Home. Under the Vermont rules, after a Lodge
spends for charity in a year a sum equal to $1.00 per capita it looks to
the Grand Lodge for assistance. In many instances the Grand Lodge
gave Lodges permission to exceed the $1.00 limit and gave additional
aid from the Lodge funds. The Grand Master believes that:
"The individual. personal application of relief locally rather than
collective application in a Masonic Home is the best system."

TENNESSEE, 1950
Tennessee has no Masonic Home. In 1926, after operating a Home
for 26 years, they gave it to the State and since then have .given relief
through a fund which grants outside relief, permitting applicants to live
among their friends and relatives or, when necessary, assuming their
care in a hospital or convalescent home. $70,000.00 was appropriated
for the purpose.
For a complete and thorough discussion of the Tennessee Plan see
pages 143-145 of the Proceedings of the 1951 Grand Lodge of the State
of Louisiana. The committee stated that this plan is worthy of emulation,
since it appears to be most efficient and satisfactory to both the recipient
of the relief and to the Grand Lodge.
One interesting paragraph taken from the report is as follows :
"When a widow made application for assistance, or for admission to
the Home for herself and children, she was given the choice of coming
into the Home, or receiving assistance in her own home and community,
and, with two exceptions in six years, every applicant elected to stay
in her own home, except two, and the two families that came into the
Home remained only two months. The system worked so well with the
widows and children, that they tried it with the old people. In every
instance it was found that they, too, preferred to remain in their own
communities. In each case a budget was worked out and a definite grant
made. The old people were, of course, in some kind of a home when
they made application. After an investigation, if the home were found
to be all right, even though humble, and the people worthy, their home
was maintained for them, and a budget worked out for them that would
suit their condition and surroundings. It was found that these old people
were a definite part of the community. where they had friends and relatives, and it was hard to move them into new surroundings and among
total strangers. The budget worked out was always liberal and flexible,
and one that would raise their standard of living."

Other jurisdictions which do not maintain Homes are Idaho, Arizona, New Mexico, Wyoming, South Carolina, Maine, North and South
Dakota and Colorado.
The Grand Lodge of Idaho expended $9,648.51 during 1949 for the
relief of indigent Masons, their widows and orphans.
In Arizona, Grand Lodge has two funds to draw on-the Masonic
Home General Fund and a Masonic Home Endowment Fund. Annual
income from these funds amount to $12,855. Relief is handled through
the Lodges, and in 1948, amounted to $2,151.25.
The Grand Lodge of New Mexico distributes its aid direct to the
beneficiaries. During 1949 New Mexico spent $2,480.00 .in relief. Tqe
monthly relief was on a 8fty-8fty basis. Two Lodges were unable to
contribute the amount, so the Committee approved of granting the balance necessary to complete the total needed.
The Grand Lodge of Wyoming has established a Masonic Home
Foundation which in 1949 amounted to $149.804.77. The sum of
$5,305.00 was expended in direct relief during the year.
In South Carolina relief is administered by a Board of Trustees.
The 1949 report shows contributions to the support of one orphan in
orphanage. $120.00; three orphans at home, $560.00: 62 Master Masons,
$7,295.00, and 123 widows, $14.934.00. Grand Lodge has contributed
$47,948.62 to the Shrine Hospital for Crippled Children.
Maine dispenses aid from a Charity Fund of $296,045.67. Last year
the Committee expended $23,418.11 to beneficiaries and $22,150.00 for
special fire relief. There were 198 applicants for aid. In all 262 persons
were assisted.
Colorado dispenses charity through the "Trustees of Benevolent
Funds." Aid was extended to 24 beneficiaries. The total assets of this
fund amount to $1,096,468. 72. Expended for aid, $11,802.08.

495

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

South Dakota has a permanent Charity Fund of $377,109.17 and
last year expended for direct relief $8,487.85.
·
In 1950 North Dakota's Grand Lodge Relief Fund amounted to
$76,957.12. Annual receipts in 1950 were $4,906.25. Disbursements for
relief amounted to $2,739.26.

lt is interesting to note also that nearly $10,000 was contributed by the
Eastern Star, in addition to a per capita charge amounting to $5,000.
There was an average of 176 residents in the Home during the year.
The per capita cost was $775.

GRAND LODGE JURISDICTIONS MAINTAINING
HOMES

The Masonic and Eastern Star Home cared for 88 members, 40
requiring bedside care. During a recess of the Grand Lodge, a committee· from the Grand Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star, presented a
check for $2,690.77 as a donation to the Home Maintenance fund. making a total contribution of $6.190. 77 for the year.

494

KANSAS, 1950 (Grand Master)
A sixteen-page brochure entitled "Your Kansas Masonic Home,"
liberally illustrated with pictures of the buildings and scenes of the
interior of the Home, was prepared and has been presented to the membership. This action, apparently, has met with favor as many complimentary remarks have been heard, and, in most cases, surprise expressed
as to the scope of the endeavor and the successful results attained.
We have a changing picture at our Home, which presents problems
that must be met and must be solved. We no longer have an appreciable
number of children as members of our Home family. In 1936, we provided a home and care for seventy-six boys and girls. In 1939, this number had been reduced to thirty-five youngsters, while in 1950 we have
nine on our rolls, with but five children actually residents of the Home.
From the time our Home was opened on September 10, 1896, until
1943, the number of Masons living at the Home exceeded the number
of ladies who had gained admission either as wives or widows of Master
Masons or members of the Eastern Star. In that year, for the first time,
the ladies outnumbered the men 138 to 113. Today we have 92 Masons
living at the Home, while the number of lady residents is listed at 166.
Approximately one-half of this number has been admitted through
Eastern Star affiliation.

NEW JERSEY, 1950
The Masonic Home and Charity Foundation of New Jersey is well
characterized as "the great heart in the body of New Jersey Masonry"
and its work is most impressive. The Home operation cost $215,870.27,
a per capita of $1.073.98 per guest, and there are 199 additional direct
and indirect beneficiaries of checks totalling another $49,252.74. The
Foundation has total assets of $6, 192,303.12.

MINNESOTA, 1950
The report of the Home places the assets at 2.VJ millions. Expenses
were $140,000 and income $130,000. These figures indicate that here,
as almost everywhere else, there is need for study of the Home finances.

OREGON, 1950

MASSACHUSETTS, 1949
The cost .of maintaining the Home for the year ending August 31,
1948, was $147,218.02, and for the year ending August 31, 1949, the
cost was $163,472.59. The cost at the Hospital for the same period of
time, as of August 31. 1948, was $78,748.91, as compared with $89,029.01 as of August 31, 1949. In addition to the above cost for maintenance at the Home and Hospital. the sum of $5,155.92 was used out of
the fund contributed by the Lodges for replacements and new equipment.
They have 69 men and 62 women guests in their Home and 13 men
and 19 women in their Masonic Hospital. General Charities called for
an additional expenditure of $83,378.88. Their Hospital is almost always
filled to capacity.

ILLINOIS, 1950
There were 233 members on September 30, 1950, of which 141 were
men and 92 women. There were, at that time, 91 members in the hospital
of which 56 were men and 35 women. During the year there were 56
admitted and 42 deaths.
Our hospital has been full to capacity at all times and you, as a
member of the Grand Lodge of Illinois, are facing a problem which must
be solved. We must have more hospital rooms. In some of the applications for admission, which we receive, we find that we must reject the
applicant because he or she is a hospital case. In our present capacity
our hospital facilities only take care of the guests in the Home. To accept
an applicant who is financially unable to care for himself and reject one
who is physically and financially down and out is not in any way discharging our obligations to those who need our help. We have been
able, during the year, to admit four hospital cases but we have accepted
several more and have been forced to notify the Lodge that we could not
take care of the applicant until we have more room in our hospital.
Twelve new guests have gone permanently to the hospital within a few

496

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

days of their arrival. Brethren, this is our problem a11d one to which you
must find the answer for us.

CONNECTICUT, 1950
The work of The Masonic Charity Foundation of Connecticut is
carried on at the Masonic Home located in Wallingford, and elsewhere
about the state as occasion requires. In Wallingford, the Foundation
owns a large tract of land on which the buildings of the Home have been
erected. The buildings now include a substantial administration building,
a large fireproof dormitory erected in 1919, and a modem fireproof one
hundred bed hospital completed in 1926. These buildings with their
splendid equipment, were made possible by funds raised among the
Masons of Connecticut, ably assisted by members of the Eastern Star,
The Order of the Amaranth and The White Shrine, and represent an
investment of over Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars. The Foundation
is now caring for 340 members, of whom 226 are women and girls, and
114 men and boys. The expenses of maintenance amounted to $390,254 .68 in 1949 and were raised in part by per capita tax laid by the
Grand Lodge on the members of the Subordinate Lodges throughout the
state. By vote of the Grand Lodge, passed at its annual communication
on April 7, 1949, the per capita tax was set at 75 cents per year. The
individual Lodges are thus required to support the Grand Lodge to the
extent of 75 cents per member only. A special assessment of $20 (effective since January 1, 1931 ) was laid on all initiates and affiliates from
sister Grand Jurisdictions for the Endowment Fund. A special assessment of $6 per year (or $2 if the Mason was raised prior to January 1,
1900) was made in 1948 on all members of the Craft, effective in 1949,
to aid in carrying on the work of the Foundation.

FLORIDA, 1950
Florida's Masonic Home cared for 72 persons during the year. A
Committee on Emergency Relief disbursed $1,815.02 for needy persons.
The Grand Lodge is striving to raise a $2,000,000 addition to its
Masonic Home Endowment Fund and the Eastern Star ladies are setting
them a merry pace to follow, having already reached 41 % of their goal.
To date $129,497.88 has been collected from both efforts, though
$273,985.36 has been subscribed.

NORTH CAROLINA, 1949
At the Masonic Home sixty-three guests were cared for at a cost of
$55,895.73, including seventeen other persons receiving "Home Aid"
payments.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

497

omo, 1950
The Ohio Masonic Home is one of the best in all American Masonry.
The operating Budget amounts to more than $600,000.00 a year. The
yearly per capita cost is $1,100.00. The Home is supported by all the
York Rite Bodies. The Endowment is approximately 2 million dollars.
During the past year the Home has served 223 men, 241 women, 23 boys
and 14 girls-a total of 501.

WISCONSIN, 1950
The vision and generosity of Brother Willard A. Van Brunt, who
presented the 319 acre farm and buildings, and an endowment fund of
$200,000.00 to provide a haven for the indigent, inaugurated this great
charitable undertaking. The present Home building was erected in 1923
at a cost of $375,000.00. The hospital was built by the Order of the
Eastern Star in 1924, at a cost exceeding $78,000.00. I have had the
privilege of attending nine meetings of the Board at the Home during
the past year. I have been impressed by the spirit of contentment that
prevails. The Home is beautiful and comfortable. The food 'is plentiful
and wholesome. The care is painstaking and sympathetic. It is Masonry
in action. The Home Board is conscientiously striving to make the Home
a real haven for the needy aged.
The population during the year has averaged about 120 and there
have been only a few occasions when we had much of a waiting list.
At present there are 42 men and 77 women. There were 19 deaths during
the year and 28 admissions. The hospital has been crowded all year
and the need for larger capacity is very evident.

CHARITY
SOUTH DAKOTA, 1950
(Should Benevolent be substituted for Charity?)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of South Dakota:
BE IT RESOLVED THAT sections 139, 140, 146, 147, 148 and
149 of the By-Laws of the Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of South Dakota
be amended to substitute the word BENEVOLENT for the word
CHARITY wherever the said word CHARITY occurs. Moved by
Brother Nichol that the above amendment be referred to the next Communication. Vote taken and motion lost.
It was then moved that it be referred to the action of this Grand
Lodge. Discussion-Several Brothers spoke relative to this amendment.
M.W. Brother Albro C. Ayres, P.G.M., addressed the Brethren recall. ing the original date of the founding of the. Grand Charity Fund and

498

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

what it meant to the Brethren at that time and what it still stood for.
He asked the question-"what is Masonry if it does not stand for
Charity?" Vote taken and the amendment was lost.

MISSISSIPPI, 1950
Relief Fund
This fund was created to aid our Lodges in caring for those whose
burdens have become greater than they can carry. The Board of Managers has granted all just appeals for relief received from our Lodges.
I have often wondered if all worthy cases of distress have come to the
attention of our Lodges and, through them, to the Grand Lodge. RELIEF is one of our principal Tenets and merita; our best thought in order
to dispense it in a practical manner. What a wonderful thing it is to
grant assistance to the needy so that he or she may continue to live
among friends and relatives and not be taken te strange surroundings
to suffer, and perhaps die, of homesickness. By our present system,
many a widow has ·been enabled to maintain a home and many an aged
and infirm brother has ended his days in comfort amid familiar scenes,
and surrounded by friends and loved ones. I feel that, "We builded
better than we knew." Our budget in this regard has not been exceeded
during the past year.

VERMONT, 1950 (Special Committee Report)
Masonic Charity and Relief (Current)
The charity income at the present time . comes from_two sources.
( 1 ) Income of the Permanent Charity Fund, approximately $3,000 per
year and ( 2) 25c per capita assessment, approximately $4.500 per year
making our total income for current charity or relief about $7,500 per
year. This has proved ample to cover expenses up until the year 1948.
For the past two years, however, we have shown a deficit of approximately $7.000 with a further deficit anticipated this year. If the current
trend continues one of two things must be done: The individual Lodges
must pay a greater proportion of their own charity expense or else our
Grand Lodge income for current charity must be increased.
The Grand Lodge has been paying for the last five years a pension
of $960.00 to a most worthy employee who had served this Grand Lodge
faithfully for forty years. We will no longer have this expense.
Your Committee is concerned with the increase in recent years of the
amount of refunds to suberdinate Lodges for charity and relief. While
your Committee does not in any way wish to give the impression that
these payments are not entirely deserving, we are struck, however, with
the fact that the trend on the part of many people today is to shun, not
only their public, but also their personal responsibilities.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

499

Canadian Brethren Appeal for Aid
The following telegram was read to the Craft:
Washington, D. C., June 13; 1950
Don Carpenter
Memorial Hall
Burlington, Iowa
Most Worshipful Harry Coddington, Grand Master, Manitoba,
appeals for aid to all United States Grand Lodges through this Association to help his stricken Grand Lodge relieve the great suffering caused
by tremendous floods in his province. Not setting any quota. Suggest
that if in your wisdom your Grand Lodge could contribute one cent per
capita, sufficient funds would be raised for material assistance. We will
collect, transmit, audit, and account for all sums sent us for Manitoba,
paying all expenses so that every penny of contribution will go to relieve
the thousands of homeless and destitute Masons of Manitoba. Regards.
CARL H. CLAUDY
Masonic Service Association
Washington, D. C.
Telegrams such as the one above were sent to the members of the
M.S.A. appealing for help. Floods that ravaged the Red River Valley
caused much property damage and many Masonic families were made
destitute.
Grand Lodges in Canada and the United States immediately responded to the appeal of the Grand Master Harry Coddington. The
Grand Lodge of Arkansas sent $1,000. British Columbia sent $5,000.
The Grand Lodge of Canada contributed $5,000 immediately, and at the
Grand Lodge session voted another $10,000. Idaho gave $127 through
the M.S.A. Iowa sent $900, Louisiana gave $400, and Nova Scotia
contributed $1,000. The Grand Lodge of Scotland was ready to contribute £1,000, but was notified that it was not needed.
A Special Committee acknowledged donations of more than $61,000.
Some $18,000 was contributed through the Masonic Service Association.
When the heart-rending appeal was sent qut to the World by
Grand Master Jorge Ripalda of Ecuador after the earthquake calamity
which struck that country, Grand Lodges in the United States gave
immediate assistance. The Grand Lodge of Arizona sent $200, Connecticut contributed $1,200, Kansas . sent $500, Massachusetts gave
$1,000, New Jersey gave $1,800, New Mexico $346, Oregon $250,
Rhode Island $1,242, and West Virginia gave $250. These are only a
few of the Grand Lodges that gave immediate financial assistance. This
Brethren, is Masonic Charity in action.

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASSACHUSETTS, 1949
Many of the Brethren are aware of the earthquake calamity which
recently struck the country of Ecuador a few weeks ago. I have. in conformity with the practice and custom of previous Grand Masters. sent a
check for a Thousand Dollars to the Grand Lodge there to assist in the
relief of sufferers. on behalf of this Grand Lodge. and have received
from Grand Master Jorge Ripalda a very grateful letter of acknowledgment.

CALIFORNIA MASONIC HOMES
California Masons are very proud of their two Masonic Homes. one
for the Aged located at Decato and one for children located at Covina,
California. The Home at Decato, in 1950, took care of 176 women and
118 men. The Covina Home took care of 57 children, including 37 boys
and 20 girls. The cost per person averaged $1,124.
The Endowment Fund according to the latest report now has reached
$4.000,000. The income from the Endowment Fund for the year ending
July 31, 1950 was $95,722.56.

MASONIC EDUCATION
This subject seemed to be an important one, Many Grand Masters
spoke at length emphasizing what should be done. Committee reports
were lengthy and most of them optimistic. Some Educational Committees were made permanent, and a few new research lodges were formed.
The important question facing all Masonic Lodges. according to one
Committeeman is "How can we best teach Masonry. not only to our
initiates. but to those who are already members. and maintain the keen
interest which motivated each of them to become members?"
When and if this question can be answered satisfactorily then and
then only will we get more than the ten per cent average membership
into our Lodge Rooms. Our Grand Master Arthur Paulsen of California
said, "The mere recitation of ritual is not enough. Masonry goes further
than just ritual. What every Mason does after taking the degrees of
Masonry is to interpret the meaning for himself. What is lacking is a
system of Masonic education to further the rit_u al and symbolic work."

01-llO, 1950 (Correspondence Committee)
Educational Programs
We believe it is encouraging to note the emphasis being placed on
Masonic education. There is no universal system used. Perhaps none
could be devised to fit the needs of all Lodges. The mere fact that constructive thought is being given to this matter is what counts. The application of any plan of education is largely a local matter. Grand Lodges

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

501

can and in many instances are serving as material supply sources. A well
planned educational program will do much to prevent membership trends
going in the wrong direction.

NEW HAMPSl-llRE, 1950 (Committee Report)
The Committee on Masonic Education. after careful consideration
of the subject, is of the opinion that steps should be taken by the Grand
Lodge to provide our candidates with educational and explanatory
material to supplement the work of the several degrees.
We recommend that the Grand Lodge authorize the Committee on
Masonic Education to prepare and have published four booklets to be
entitled "On The Threshold," " Entered Apprentice," "Fellow Craft"
and " Master Mason" for distribution to the subordinate Lodges free of
cost to said Lodges, and that the Secretaries of the several Lodges be
instructed to forward a copy of the booklet "On The Threshold" to
each candidate when he is notified to appear for the conferring of the
Entered Apprentice Degree and to present to each candidate a copy of
the booklets entitled "Entered Apprentice," "Fellow Craft" and "Master
Mason" at the conclusion of the conferring of the respective degrees.

OREGON, 1950 (Grand Master)
Brethren, real strides have ·been made this year in the promotional
work of the Educational Program, and we can justly be proud of its
progress. As you know, this Educational Program is your mandate and
its fulfillment '\\las trustfuly placed by resolution in the hands of Research
Lodge No. 198. High praise and commendation is due to the Worshipful
Master. the committee, and all others who took part and had a share in
preparing and executing the programs of area meetings. The courtesy
of the Scottish Rite in extending the facilities of their building for the
five educational meetings in January, and the night given over by Al
Kader Temple, are not only expressions of cooperation, but also true
manifestations of genuine Masonic spirit. It is this degree of unselfishness and display of real fraternalism that will make for the success of
our educational program.
Such a program can be as broad as one desires, there are no bounds.
but it takes work individually as well as collectively and therefore it ·
behooves every Master Mason to energetically support this great under·
taking.

NEW MEXICO, 1950 (Committee Report)
Masonic Institutes held in fourteen Districts stimulated considerable
interest in education, administration, philosophy, sym·bolism and history.
The "Freemason" is also being well received.

502

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FLORIDA, 1950 (Committee Report)
Your Committee on Education submits the following report:
One lecture on Masonic Etiquette has been prepared during the year
and submitted to the Grand Master. Two lectures on Masonic History
and two lectures on Masonic Law are in course of preparation and
should be completed within a short time for delivery to the incoming
Grand Master.
It is difficult to find Brethren who are qualified and who can 'give the
time to preparation of lectures on suitable subjects, but the Committee
recommends that the work be continued; that qualified Brethren who can
devote time to the matter be requested to prepare lectures and when a
sufficient number have been completed that a course of instruction be
prepared for delivery in the Particular Lodges.

NEW JERSEY, 1950 {Committee on Masonic Education)
The Committee on Masonic Education felt that there was not enough
time being devoted to Masonic Education in the Lodges and that the
Worshipful Master should plan such instruction deliberately and not
permit it to be merely incidental to the Lodge work. The Committee had
prepared each month an article on a Masonic subject, which was pu~
lished in the "Tracing Board.. magazine. These articles are reprinted
in the Proceedings. Typical subjects are "The Antiquity of Freemasonry," "The 1948 Grand Lodge Proceedings," "Tubal Cain," "A
Quiz on the History of Freemasonry," "The Ornaments of the Lodge,"
and "Freemasonry-The Champion of Liberty."

SOUTH DAKOTA, 1950 (Grand Master)
I, therefore, recommend that the Board of General Activities give
thought to the development of a definite program of Masonic Education,
and through a Bulletin, or other similar means, pass their ideas and
suggestions on to the Constituent Lodges; and that study be given and
appropriation made to enable the Board to carry out such a program.

VIRGINIA, 1950 (Grand Master)
The subject of Masonic Education has been given emphasis during
the year. I have constantly urged that our Educational Booklets be
used in all Lodges. Where reports were made by District Deputy Grand
Masters that Lodges were not using these booklets I have urged my personal representatives to again visit the Lodge and insist that these excellent books be used.
It is felt that through the Virginia Lodge of Research the cause of
Masonic education will be still furthered.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

503

Also I feel that if this Grand Lodge will become a member of the
Masonic Service Association that we would further the cause of Masonic
Education a great deal.

KENTUCKY, 1949 (Special Committee)
A special committee on moving pictures rendered a report showing
the purchase of a number of films for the library and circulation; the total
number of people seeing the Sims being almost 18,000.

VERMONT, 1950 (Committee on Masonic Education)
In accordance with your vote at our last Annual Communication,
your committee proceeded with the publication of the booklet entitled
"Freemasonry, What Is It," the text of which was submitted to and
approved by the Grand Lodge at that time. This booklet has been distributed to all the local Lodges, and is being used by them to inform and
to instruct men who are already Masons as well as actual and potential
candidates. It is an excellent statement of the aims and objects of
Masonry and merits the study of anyone interested in the subject. While
it has not been used as fully by all Lodges as we would wish, we are
sure that it has been a full step forward in the cause of Masonic education.
More and more Grand Jurisdictions are turning their attention to
this subject and are meeting its needs in the way that seems to fulfill their
particular requirements. Many of them send us copies of their current
publications and we have sent copies of our booklet to · several of the
Committees like our own in those states.
Our next move should be in the field of education for our present
Master Masons, the supplying of information about many phases of
Masonry that does not ordinarily come to the attention of our members.
Historical, philosophical, and inspirational aspects of Masonry might
well be the subject of future work and publication by this committee.
This needs to be done carefully and thoughtfully however, and your
committee thinks it wise to make haste slowly. Our booklet has marked a
real .advance this year, and we expect that the coming years will bring
equal and we hope greater advances.

LOUISIANA, 1949 (Grand Master)
"After much study concerning our Masonic needs, I recommend that
we publish a Grand Lodge magazine and send it free of charge to members whereby we might give to them the activities of Masonry and some
of the principles. I make this recommendation because I am thoroughly
convinced that we need to do something that might be of interest to the
majority of our members and an EDUCATION to ALL of us."

504

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

WYOMING, 1950 (Grand Master)
We feel that in the continuation of the advancement of Masonry in
Wyoming in spirit, quality and numbers we may feel justly proud. We
have the highest number of Masons in the State that we have ever
reached, over eleven thousand, and the quality and spirit of these men
cannot be excelled. I believe in quality rather than quantity but when
we have both in our membership we may feel elated. The new, or rather
new, Educational program is one of the great assets in extending the
knowledge and appreciation of Masonry to our members: vacancies on
this Council caused considerable delay in getting this Educational
Council moving but under the leadership of our new Director we feel
that rapid strides have been made toward the accomplishment of our
plans. Knowledge is power: Ignorance is as always Darkness.
MAINE, 1951 (Grand Master)
From a personal survey this year, and from talking with the Brethren
in various parts of the state, I am certain that there is a desire on the
part of the Brethren for more Masonic instruction. There is a need to
impart "more light in Masonry" not only to all the Brethren, but more
particularly to new candidates. If we can instill into these Brethren the
true meaning of the lessons they have received, and make them Masons
in fact, rather than in name only, then we shall have accomplished the
goal which we are seeking.
At the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge, it was voted
that the educational work for this Grand Lodge be carried on by the
Committee on Library and Museum.
RESEAJlCH LODGES
IOWA, 1950 (Special Committee on Lodges of Research)
A committee was appointed by the incoming Grand Master to make
a careful study and submit recommendations to the Grand Lodge at the
present session, giving in detail the necessary corrections of the law to
carry out such a project.
Your committee has made such a study and find and recommend
that the law should be amended to permit the formation of such Lodges
of Research in Iowa, and, especially because Iowa has always been a seat
of Masonic learning and with its many activities in that particular, that
this jurisdiction is especially fitted to aid and assist any such Lodge of
Research or the members thereof.
We have contacted all of the Grand Lodges of the United States
- with reference to their attitude about Masonic Research Lodges and
find that several have permitted the organization of such Lodges in their
jurisdictions. Probably the original Research Lodge was in New York,

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

505

and since then the Grand Lodges that have had such Research Lodges
for several years include North Carolina, Oregon, Missouri, as well as
·New York, and we learn that ten Grand Lodges of the United States
now have authorized such research organizations.
Iowa Grand Lodge Rules and Regulations for Lodges of Research
(a) "Fifteen or more Master Masons, members in good standing
of any Iowa lodge or lodges, may petition the Grand Master for, and
he may in his discretion issue, without fees and without compliance
with the usual requirements, prescribed for the issuance of a Dispensation under the present requirement of Chapter 17, of the 1949 Code, a
Dispensation to such members to form a Lodge of Research. And a
Charter may be issued, without a fee, to such a Lodge of Research upon
approval by the Grand Lodge at an annual communication: also, without
compliance with the usual requirements prescribed for the issuance of a
Charter. '
The territorial jurisdiction of such Lodge of Research when formed
shall be co-extensive with the territorial jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge.
The membership shall consist of the Charter Members thereof and
those members of Iowa lodges who are later admitted by affiliation,
which affiliation may be had without a dimit from a subordinate or regular lodge or a certificate of payment of dues.
Lodges of Research shall be designated and numbered separately
and consecutively with "Research Lodge No. 1."
A lodge formed hereunder may elect to honorary, contributing, or
subscribing membership Master Masons or lodges of Master Masons
in good stand\flg in this or any other Grand Jurisdiction in Masonic
affiliation with this Grand Lodge under such conditions as by its by-laws
may be prescribed, which by-laws shall limit the power to vote to members belonging to Iowa lodges only.
( b) A Lodge of Research shall be a lodge of research only and have
the right, power, and authority only:
( 1) To promote within its own membership Masonic study and
historical research.
( 2) The present findings and conclusions to be the lodge for discussion and interchange of judgment:
( 3) To publish at convenient intervals proceedings or transactions
containing such portions of the addresses and discussions in lodges as
may be desirable to print:
( 4) To publish new Masonic books of outstanding merit:
( 5) To reproduce or print Masonic documents of historical importance:
( 6) To reprint scarce Masonic books and pamphlets;
( 7) To open and close its lodge on the Third Degree:
( 8) To have such rights and authority as may be necessary to
carry out such work.

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Any publications shall be without expense to the Grand Lodge.
For the purpose of carrying out such rights, powers and authority
it may make by-laws providing for the election of its officers: for the
establishment, control. and limitations of its membership for the time and
place and nature of its meetings: for the payment of dues and to effectuate the purposes of its organization.
Neither its designation as a lodge or its organization as such, nor the
issuance of a Dispensation or a Charter shall constitute. or be construed
as giving to it, or any of its officers or members, any of the Masonic
honors, rights, powers, privileges, or authority possessed by a Masonic
lodge or by any of its officers or members, except such as are herein
specifically granted by the Grand Lodge. Nor shall it or any of its members be subject to any additional duties or obligations of a Masonic
lodge or a member thereof because it is a Masonic lodge, except under
specific regulations or orders of the Grand Lodge or its own by-laws
passed within the scope of the rights, powers, and authority granted to
it by the Grand Lodge.
( c) No person shall continue to be an active member of a Lodge of
Research unless he is a regular member in good standing in a subordinate
lodge of Masons. And such a lodge shall at all times have at least ten
members in good standing in Iowa in their subordinate lodges, or its
Charter must be revoked by the Grand Master.
ARKANSAS, 1950
Arkansas Research Lodge No. 739 continues with its historical productions printed annually in the proceedings of the Grand Lodge. The
contents for 1949 include the story of St. John's College in Arkansas, a
Masonic institution, an article on Albert Pike as a lawyer, and the story
of a Tennessee lodge whose membership was made up of some distinguished Arkansas brethren.
COLORADO, 1950 (Special Committee on Lodge of Research)
Your special committee to which was referred the matter of the establishment of a Lodge of Research, submits the following report:
. This idea undoubtedly possesses considerable merit, and deserves
every consideration, however we feel it is too large and comprehensive
to 'be decided without careful and detailed study, which is impossible
on such short notice, particularly as it appears necessary that the Constitution be amended to permit formation of Lodges of this type. In
accordance with instructions, a conference was held with the Committees on Jurisprudence and Finance, and they are in agreement with our
conclusions.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

507

We therefore recommend to the incoming Grand Master the appointment of a special Committee to thoroughly investigate all phases of this
matter, consulting with such Committees and Officers of the Grand
Lodge as may be necessary, and submit a full report at the next Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge, in January, 1952.
MISSOURI, 1950
Chartered only 9 years ago the Missouri Lodge of Research is now
the largest institution of its kind in this country. The heartening growth
in membership is evidence of the increasing interest of the Craft in
Missouri in Masonic history and particularly in Missouri Masonic
history.
And few states have as interesting Masonic history as does Missouri,
for in no other state has Freemasonry been so woven into the fabric of
the civil, political and religious life of the state.
Within the past several years the Lodge of Research has placed in
the hands of its members numerous books and pamphlets of interest to
members of the fraternity, including the biographies of prominent Missouri Masons. Membership will mean eventually an invaluable Masonic
library.
The Grand Master said:
While there has been a fine increase in our membership in the past
year, we feel that a membership of 603 is infinitesimal when we consider
that this Grand Lodge represents almost 115,000 Master Masons. What
a man gets out of Masonry depends to a very great extent on what that
man has to put into Masonry. It is my firm conviction that membership
in the Missouri Lodge of Research and availaing ones-self of all of its
benefits will direct one, Masonically, on the surest path to the Way, the
Truth and the Light.
NEW YORK, 1950
A report of the American Lodge of Research. of the Grand Lodge of
New York, reveals that 42.8 per cent of the membership were from outside the jurisdiction and located in thirty-five other jurisdictions. The
conclusion was that the percentage contrasts vividly with other research
lodges where the membership and interest are almost wholly within the
jurisdiction in which the lodge is located.
OREGON, 1950
A report on Masonic Education, by M.W. Bro. Harry D. Proudfoot.
Worshipful Master of Research Lodge of Oregon No. 198, indicated
considerable activity. Ninety-two speakers were furnished lodges, programs have been devised, and ten area meetings were well attended.

508

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

TEXAS, 1950
In Texas, it was recommended that the Grand Lodge take necessa
steps to set up lodges of research, believing that wherever establish~
they had made definite contributions to the work of the Craft.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

509

from time immemorial, we cannot know who made them or when they
were made. We can only know that they were accepted by the Craft
for centuries before the first Grand Lodges were established, and that
they have been recognized by all regular Grand Lodges since that time.

Grand Lodges Favoring a More Liberal Interpretation

VIRGINIA, 1950
Dispensation was is~~ed for holding of a Lodge of Research at Richmond and ~ther places as may be necessary to investigate, collect and
correlate historical data pertaining to Ancient Craft Masonry in th
e
Commonwealth of Virginia."

NOVA SCOTIA, 1949
Lodge of Research
Possibly the greatest advance in Masonic historical work made during the past ~ear, has be~n the revival of the Nova Scotia Lodge of
Research, which at one time ( 1915-22). was chiefly instrumental in
arousing very considerable interest in the past history of this historic
jurisdiction, promoting research among a very keen group of students of
our past and reiulting in the publication of about twenty historical
papers.

TASMANIA, 1949
The Grand Master suggested each lodge join with the Lodge of
Research at Hobart and aid in the dissemination of Masonic knowledge
by means of lectures, discussions and papers.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIO NS
Th~s subject was discussed pro and con by many Grand Masters,
Committeemen, and others. The trend in many Grand Lodges seems to
be a more liberal interpretation of this Ancient Landmark. M any Grand
Masters however, are asking that the individual Lodges assume most of
the responsibility in making the final decisions. Emphasis seems to be
on the internal rather than the external qualifications of a candidate.
Are we slowly but surely tearing down what we always have considered
one of our Ancient Landmarks? One might ask,
"What is a Landmark?" and "Who made Landmarks?" The first
question is readily answered. The Landmarks are those fundamental
principles of Freemasonry which have subsisted from time immemorial
which are not subject to repeal or change, and without which Free~
masonry would lose its distinctive character as such. This definition automatically answers the second question. If the Landmarks have existed

DELAWARE, 1950 (Foreign Correspondent)
Physical qualifications: This is one subject where there is a wide
difference of opinion as to what course to pursue. W hile quite a number
of Jurisdictions have adopted varying types of regulations as to physical
fitness in candidates, others have refused to consider any changes whatever. Some Grand Lodges leave the matter entirely up to the Grand
Masters for decision. In most cases of this kind, Grand Masters do not
relish the duty, and only under the most extreme conditions will they
grant dispensations setting aside the doctrine of "the perfect youth."
Many Grand Masters report that they refer the matter back to the Lodge
for its decision as to what constitutes ability to receive and transmit the
mysteries of Masonry. Typical of this attitude is the solution used by
Grand Master Jackson of Texas who reported:
"During the war I received numerous requests for waiver of physical
disability, which were referred back to the Lodge for their own decisions.
In my opinion, such weaknesses as asthma, nervousness, heart trouble,
stomach ulcers, hernia, arthritis, varicose veins, could not be classified
as physical disabilities under Article 430. In each instance, the Lodge
was cautioned to consider the possibility of such petitioner becoming
a charge on the Lodge. I received nine requests for my ruling on physical
disabilities who had not yet petitioned a Lodge, but had expressed a
desire to do so. In each case, I replied that this was not a question for
me to rule upon, since he had not yet petitioned the Lodge."
This question is one that this reviewer feels should be settled by
action of GRAND LODGES, not Grand Masters. All too often, as
Grand Masters come and go, rulings are changed to conform to the
ideas of the individual holding the office, and in such cases, Masters and
Lodges never know where they stand about accepting petitions from
handicapped candidates. In this connection, we found a Jurisdiction,
which shall be nameless here, where a Grand Master granted dispensations permitting reception of petitions from .m en with almost every type
of disability except total blindness and total deafness. At the other
extreme, we find several Grand Masters refusing to waive in any case
any types of disability. It would seem necessary to this writer that
Grand Lodges adopt regulations in unmistakable terms as to what is
and what is not a disqualifying disability. Delaware's law that a man
must be " sufficiently sound" in his natural or artificial mempers to conform to our ceremonies seems to be worlcing very well for us here. Very

510

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

few border line cases have been put up to our Grand Master for sett] _
ment since its adoption.
e
OREGON, 1950 (Grand Master)

Dispensations Waiving Physical Qualifications
There are eleven lodges that made such requests for special dispensations and in each instance my policy was to request three letters
from brothers of the lodge who knew the petitioner, these letters to substantiate the spiritual and moral character and sobriety of the individual
in question and his non likelihood of becoming a charge upon the lodge.
In all cases where it was possible a personal interview was held and
in several instances I conferred the M.M. degree.
Though there may be many divergencies of opinion, I assure you
that it was my sense of responsibility and the exercise of weighed judgment that actuated me in these decisions. We are taught that it is the
internal and not the external quali.6cations that recommend a man for
Masonry and therefore I feel that our fraternity is greatly enriched hy
the character of those whom we have thus admitted.
These special dispensations are listed below:
August 10, 1949-Jennings Lodge No. 9, to receive and act upon the
petition of Edward Smith Hamilton, for the reason that due to wounds
received during World War II, he lost the sight of one eye and wears
a plate across the front of his head. He is a retired army officer.
September 25, 1949-Midday Lodge No. 188, to receive and act
upon the petition of Horace Albert Scoggins, for the reason that due to
an accident several years ago, his right leg was amputated below the
knee.
November 1, 1949-Burns Lodge No. 97, to receive and act upon
the petition of Norman Wayne Oliver, for the reason that due to an
accident he is crippled in both feet which will prevent him from receiving
the degrees in an ordinary manner.
November 1, 1949-Lents Lodge No. 156, to receive and act upon
the petition of Hervey Alden Dobson, for the reason that he suffers a
disability which makes it difficult for him to kneel.
January 17, 1950-0akridge Lodge No. 205, to receive and act upon
the petition of Harry Christensen, for the reason that due to a bus accident several years ago, he suffered the amputation of his right leg above
the knee.
.
NEVADA, 1949 (Grand Master)
Following the relaxation of its traditional physical requirements for
candidates in 1948, the Grand Master, for his guidance, formulated the
following standard and the Grand Lodge voted approval: "Physical
Qualifications for Petitioners-Must possess the physical ability to conform substantially to, and receive and give instructions in, the arts and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

511

mysteries of Freemasonry: provided, the Grand Master may in his discretion issue a dispensation to a Lodge, without charge, to receive and
consider in the usual Masonic manner the petition of a person physically
deflcient but otherwise qualified: and further provided, the Master of a
Lodge must advise all members present of the physical disability prior to
balloting on a petition received under such dispensation."
MISSOURI, 1950 (Grand Lodge)
The Jurisprudence Committee recommended and the Grand Lodge
adopted the following:
"No Lodge shall confer a degree of Ancient Craft Masonry on any
person whose physical defects are such as to prevent his receiving and
imparting the ceremonies of the several degrees: provided, that nothing
herein contained shall be so construed to as render anyone ineligible to
the privileges of Freemasonry who can by the aid of artificial appliances,
possessed and used by him, conform to the necessary ceremonies. If from
any cause, the Lodge finds the candidate totally disqualified, the fee
shall be returned and no further action shall be taken."
RHODE ISLAND, 1950 (Jurisprudence Committee)
On the recommendation of the Committee on Jurisprudence, Rhode
Island took this stand:
"This question is one we feel should be given a broad interpretation,
and left to the discretion of the Lodge to which application is made, considering first of all, would the applicant make a desirable member of that
Lodge, even though he cannot fulfill all the requirements as may be the
case in some of the fine young men who are veterans of the recent war."
SOUTH CAROLINA, 1950 (Case No. 6 Grand Lodge)
Jackson Lodge No. 53 has a petition from a man who was born without a right hand. His arm is normal to about half way between the elbow
and wrist. It is understood that he does not have an artificial hand now
but anticipates getting one.
Question:
Can the Lodge vote on his petition before he gets an artificial ha~d?
Answer:
·~
No. He could not legally file a petition because he has to state therein
that he is not deformed in person. While the law permits that deformity
to be cured by an artificial limb he is not cured until he actually has the
artificial hand. When the applicant has been fitted with an artificial
hand he may apply, and under the law it will be up to the Master to
decide whether this enables him to sufficiently comply with the regulations. (See section 100 of the Code, Article III of the Constitution. )

•
512

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Case No. 2

doubt increase and has caused your Grand Master much worry as to its
advisability and continuation, unless more exacting requirements are
made. This should be handled by a special committee qualified to give
it exhaustive study."
It occurs to your corresponde nt that if the ancient rule is not a landmark, as is so vehemently contended by those who favor letting down
the bars, then why worry about the number of cases of crippled men
seeking admission. They doubtless fulfill the mental requirements. We
are so frequently reminded that it is better to have wooden legs than
wooden heads. We say: "Why have either?"

Facts:
A candidate is fully qualified for Masonry with the exception of a
missing thumb and forefinger on his right hand.
Question:
ls this candidate qualified to receive degrees?
Answer:
No. Not unless artificial fingers can replace those missing.
There is no desire on my part to be technical about qualifications
but the Grand Lodge writes the law and I do not see that the Grand
Master has the power to change any provisions by a ruling.

WEST VIRGINIA , 1950 {Grand Master)
I gave my permission on March 30, 1950 to St. Johns Lodge No. 24,
to receive petition of applicant using a hearing aid.

WYOMIN G, 1950 {Grand Master)
3. Gate City Lodge No. 32 requested perm1ss1on to receive the
petition of a candidate who had lost an arm. Decision. It is for the final
decision of the Worshipful Master of the Lodge as to whether he may
be received. My advice to the Worshipful Master is that if I were the
Worshipful Master in this particular case knowing the facts as I do, I
would accept his petition. (Approved -with comments.)

513

INDIANA , 1950 {Correspondence Committee}Along in the Grand Master's address we find a reference to the fact
that when any one who is maimed wants to petition he has to appear
before the Jurispruden ce Committee to show the extent of his maim.
It seems the committee had 33 cases to decide. Means a lot of additional
work for this already overworked Committee. They do it more easily
in some states, where it is "come one, come all," and no questions raised.
Much less trouble and to heck with the landmark.

NORTH CAROLIN A, 1950 (Acting Grand Master)
I granted permission to Mooresville No. 496 to ballot on a profane
whose disability was adequately remedied by artificial means.

OKLAHO MA, 1949 {Grand Master)
COLORA DO, 1950 {Foreign Correspondent)
Colorado was among the states, following the rece~t war, that let
down the bars and thereby nullified to a considerable extent the ancient
rule, (called a landmark by many) regarding physical fitness of
applicants for the degrees in Masonry. Now, it appears from his annual
address, that Grand Master Krebs is "worried" and thinks perhaps
something ought to be done to clarify and make more strict the regulation regarding physical requirements. Dispensatio ns were issued in 21
cases, some of which, the Grand Master said, were rather serious. He
said an earnest effort had been made to alert investigating committees
and to impress upon the lodges that it was their responsibility and not
the responsibility of Grand Lodge. We quote:
"The Grand Master has attempted to convey the idea that in cases
where physically impaired members are admitted it will always be that
individual lodge's responsibility and not the Grand Lodge's.
"The increased number of requests of this type is no doubt caused
by the fact the Craft is just now realizing that the constitution has been
changed to permit such membership. The number of requests will no

The Grand Master says: "It is always a matter of real regret when
a Lodge is compelled to refuse the petition of a fine man who would
make a splendid Mason. because he is physically disqualified." He
reports that three dispensations in the premises were requested and all
denied, adding: "Though it would have given your Grand Master
much pleasure to grant them." Why adhere to an antiquated idea in
the interpretatio n of a so-called Landmark when it causes so much
regret? That thing which Mackey called Landmark XVIII has long
enough been the hoodoo of Freemasonry. Come down to earth and consider, as our ritual says, the inner qualities rather than the outer.

BRITISH COLUMB IA, 1949 {Grand Master)
On the subject of physical disability, the Grand Master felt that
a different attitude must be assumed-th at Freemasonr y in the juri~­
diction had robbed itself of much good material and that the emphasis
should be on the development of brain and spirit and not on limbs and
physique. observing that "the ability properly to provide for himself and
family, the character and mentality to appreciate our teachings should

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

far outweigh the many minor physical disabilities that at present preclude some men from becoming Freemasons."

Some Grand Lodges who are adhering to the Ancient Landmark

IDAHO, 1950 (Grand Lodge)
Idaho, 1919
Voted down two resolutions relative to physical qualifications: ( 1)
That Lodges, by unanimous vote, might waive the regulation on physical
qualifications in cases where a physical defect was incurred during
service in the armed forces of the United States, and ( 2) That the
individual Lodges should be the judge of the physical fitness of petitioners.

NEBRASKA, 1950 (Grand Lodge)
Nebraska has finally come out boldly and bravely in adherence to
the doctrine that a landmark cannot be changed. As one of the wise
Past Grand Masters of Nebraska has said: "A landmark cannot be
repealed, but it can be violated."
In a fine report in which full recognition is given to the understandable sentiment for lowering the bars for wounded veterans, and with
complete acquiescence in the principle that it is the internal, not the
external, qualifications of a man that we regard in Masonry, it has
reached the following conclusions:
"To the extent that candidates are admitted who cannot, or are not
required to perform our ancient rites (which in themselves are Landmarks) to that extent we are violating these Landmarks. To the extent
that any Landmark is violated or abandoned, our Order loses the peculiar characteristics that make it Masonry.
"No man is admitted to Masonry as a matter of right. It is a privilege ~hich we grant. If we demand of candidates that they not only
meet our intellectual, moral and spiritual standards but certain physical
standards, we are not violating any obligation that we owe them, nor
are we violating any humanitarian or Christian principles. We are only
recognizing a principle laid down by the founders of our Grand Lodge
in the preamble of the Constitution they adopted at their first communication on September 23, 1857. ' That the ancient landmarks of the Order
be held Inviolate.' "

WISCONSIN, 1950 (Grand Master)
Question: (BF Lodge )-An applicant for the degrees was elected.
This applicant had his right thumb severed at second joint when a
child. Attention was drawn to this physical defect previous to conferring
of Entered Apprentice degree. May we confer degrees upon him?

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5 15

Decision: The Grand Lodge has, at previous annual communications,
legislated that petition may not be received from one who has had similar
misfortune. It will, therefore, be necessary for the Lodge to return the fee
on account of Lodge lacking jurisdiction due to physical disqualification.
Question: A petition has been received from a man of the best character who is totally deaf. He lost his hearing in the service of his country.
May we receive his petition?
Decision: One who is totally deaf does not meet the requirements
specified in Section 1, A, Article XVI. page 124 of the Masonic· Code of
yv7isconsin. In regard to war service, a year ago the Grand Lodge ruled
the Lodge does not have jurisdiction to receive the petition from one
who has been mutilated even though such mutilation is the result of
war service." The petition cannot therefore be received.
·
Question: (Lodge M)- We are in receipt of a petition for the
degrees of an applicant who uses a hearing aid. May we accept this
petition?
Decision: You may receive the application of this petitioner if his
hearing is not defective to the extent that a hearing aid is required
during initiation.
(A resolution providing for modification as recommended by the
. Grand Master was rejected by Grand Lodge.)

Now that five years have passed since the end of the war, it appears
that the agitation in favor of further relaxation of traditional Masonic
physical standards is beginning to subside. Idaho voted down two resolutions which would have relaxed its requirements. Manitoba amended its
law for purposes of clarification only, with no change in its traditional
position. Nebraska reaffirmed its law, then, after two resolutions had
been introduced, referred the question again to a special committee for
study. Minnesota has a special committee studying the question, but the
committee recommended no action and further study was directed.
In 1948 the Grand Lodge of Nevada decided to relax its standards
by providing that "physical qualiftcation under Landmark XI be interpreted to mean one who can substantially conform to the ceremonies
of initiation." This, however only served to introduce other problems.
It made necessary a "standard" by which the Grand Master might, at
his discretion, issue dispensations to receive petitions from those who
have physical ·handicaps. Following is the standard for guidance of the
Grand Master: "Must possess the physical ability to conform substantially to, and receive and give instructions in, the arts and mysteries

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of Freemasonry; provided, the Grand Master may in his discretion issue
a dispensation to a Lodge, without charge, to receive and consider in the
usual Masonic manner the petition of a person physically deficient but
otherwise qualified; and further provided, the Master of a Lodge must
advise all members present of the physical deficiency prior to balloting
on a petition received under such dispensation.''

In California, our prese.nt law seems to be working satisfactorily.
Under Section 208, entitled "Moral and Physical Qualifications,"
we read: An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must be a man; no
woman nor eunuch; free born, being neither a slave nor the son of a
bond woman: a believer in God and a future existence; of moral conduct; capable of reading and writing; having no maim or defect in his
body that may render him incapable of learning the art, and physically
able to conform substantially to what the several degrees respectively
require of him.
Sec. 209. The question as to the physical sufficiency of the applicant
shall be left to the sound discretion of the Lodge. When the applicant
is unable to comply literally with the physical requirements the Master
shall state the nature and extent of his disabilities to the Lodge before
ballot is taken.

POWERS OF THE GRAND MASTER
One hundred years ago it seemed almost universally true that Grand
Masters enjoyed the high prerogative of Making Masons at sight, without any preliminaries, and at any suitable time and place, they alone
being the judges of the propriety, the time and the place. For so doing,
no earthly power could call them to account.
This question of implied powers caused some dissension in the
Grand Lodge of California during its second year so that immediately
the Powers of the Grand Master were questioned, and to clarify them,
Grand Lodge passed and adopted the following resolutions:
1. Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that the
Grand Master is but the creature of the Grand Lodge, with no implied
powers, inherent or divine.
2. Resolved, That this Grand Lodge does not acknowledge the
doctrine that a Grand Master may make Masons at sight or at will
except in a regular Lodge, by the unanimous consent of the members
there present, and that, in its opinion, Grand Masters possess no powers
except those contained in the Constitutions of Masonry and those
clearly and expressly delegated to them by their brethren.
Today many Grand Lodges have definite restrictions regarding the
powers of the Grand Master, however, a number of Jurisdictions still
allow the Grand Master the privilege and right to make a Mason at sight.

517

SOUTH CAROLINA, 1950 (GrandMaster)
Occasional Lodge
On July 28th I convened an Occasional Lodge for the purpose of
making Major General George H. Decker, Commanding General at
Fort Jackson, a Mason at Sight. General Decker by his enthusiastic and
consistent support was largely instrumental in the establishment of the
Masonic Lodge at Fort Jackson. He provided every facility that he
possibly could for the convenience and comfort of this Masonic body.
Not only that but General Decker is an outstanding officer and soldier
who has spent most of his life in the service of his country. He is an
efficient leader, and my action in making him a Mason, brought joy to
those Masons serving under his command. General Decker often
expressed his desire to become a Mason and I felt after due inquiry, that
he was worthy of this honor.

SOUTH CAROLINA, 1950 (Grand Master)
Every Grand Master has to make rulings on various Masonic questions which are clearly answered in the law. I requested that all such
matters be first referred to the District Deputies and if they could not
give the answer they were to come to me. This action is strictly in
accordance with Masonic law which is often ignored. This year it has
worked wonderfully well The District Deputies have been efficient and
diligent and as a result most problems have been solved in the district
where they arose.
I venture the assertion that no Grand Master has been called on to
make fewer rulings during a Masonic year.

PENNSYLVANIA, 1950 {Correspondence Committee)
The Grand Master reported that he had made five "Masons at
Sight," two of them at the same time in one of the Lodges. While he had
a perfect right to do this, it has always seemed a bit out of place since
"Masonry regards no man for his worldly wealth or honors.'' Also we
have always rather liked the phrase: "As all brothers and fellows have
done before.'' When we read of cases like this we feel just as we do
while being herded before the gate at the railroad station and see some
few extra special folks slip through by a side gate to enable them to get
good seats on the train before us hoi polloi are permitted to pass.

MASONIC BLOOD BANK
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, 1950 (Grand Master)
It is with much pleasure that I report on this important activity of
Masonry. The General Chairman of the Grand Lodge Blood Donor

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Committee has a complete report at this Communication, and I will not
repeat the information he has given you. I must, however, express my
sincere appreciation for the manner in which the Masons of the jurisdiction have responded to the appeal for blood.
Through the Masonic Blood Bank, we are able to provide blood for
all the Masons in the jurisdiction and their families. A substantial part
of our contribution has been made available to our Armed Forces in
Korea. This is truly Masonry in action, and our record this year is one
of which we can be proud.
W. Brother L. Malcolm Graham, General Chairman of the Blood
Donors Committee, made a report expressing gratification at the
splendid showing made by the Lodges and stressing the urgent need
for continued interest in this project.
He said: "Notwithstanding the fact that your Committee did not
officially begin to function until the middle of February, the final results
for the period ending December 15, 1950, reveal that the Lodges of t~is
jurisdiction have exceeded the original quota of 1,233 pints. The final
tabulation of donations made during the year discloses that a total of
1,610 pints were donated by members of the constituent Lodges and
their families, or 377 pints over the quota for a percentage of 130.58.
Our activities this year have become a subject of conversation in
every Red Cross Regional Center. The fact that we are one of the largest
organizations in the program and the manner in which we have
responded, has caused the Red Cross to publicize our efforts throughout
the country. Several requests have been received from other cities regarding our successful operation and detailed information has been furnished
by your Chairman to assist these groups in their organization.
Your Chairman feels that the Masonic Blood Bank has become firmly
established during _this second year of operation. It is one of the finest
forms of protection for our membership anyone could desire and with.
the number of donors available, should become one of the largest and
strongest programs organized. This year every Lodge in the jurisdiction
participated in and contributed to the Blood Bank, some more than
others, but sufficiently to indicate complete cooperation and accord. As
a matter of record it should be noted that twenty-four Lodges exceeded
their quotas this year as compared to ten in 1949."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

519

MARYLAND, 1950 (Committee Report}
Blood donations during the six months ending October 31, 1950
have again reached an all-time high. The Temple donor file was called
upon to furnish 410 pints of blood as compared with 352 pints of blood
for comparable period in 1949, and 304 pints in 1948.
It is imperative that ways and means be found to increase the number
of prospective donors in the very near future in order to meet the ever
increasing demand for donations. In order to accomplish this, we recommend that the Committee be reorganized and enlarged, and through this
committee an extensive campaign be made for prospective donors in the
various Lodges.
MICHIGAN, 1950 (Resolution Adopted)
Resolved, That the Board of General Purposes be directed to study
the feasibility of establishing, under the authority of this Grand Lodge,
a "Michigan Masonic Blood Bank" at the University Hospital in Ann
Arbor, Michigan, and to report its findings with recommendations at the
next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.

ARKANSAS, 1950 (Grand Master)

LOUISIANA, 1951 (Grand Master)
Greater New Orleans Masonic Blood Bank-Approved
In April, 1950 I was approached with the request that I consider
sanctioning the organization of a Greater New Orleans Masonic Blood
Bank.
Brother Tom Willson, Past Master, Square and Compass Lodge
No. 417, was enthusiastic over the possibilities of such a Bank, and had
already sounded out the authorities at the Baptist Hospital, had been
promised the services of a doctor and nurse regularly, and had secured
a standard contract and copies of application blanks in use in other
Blood Banks. Under the proposed arrangement Grand Lodge would be
required to furnish without charge one of the refreshment rooms between
the hours of 5: 30 and 7: 30 two evenings a month, set up the beds and
equipment and have them ready for use before each drawing period,
dismantle them and store them after each drawing period, and leave the
social rooms clean and in usable condition. I was assured that if Grand
Lodge would provide the facilities a Blood Bank group would do the
work, and, more important, would undertake to procure the necessary
donors.

Many of you will recall the establishment of the Blood Bank at the
University Hospital here in Little Rock, as well as smaller Blood Banks
in various counties in the state, that has resulted in saving many lives
by having blood or plasma available when needed. Your Grand Lodge
financed the collection and distribution of this plasma until the State of
Arkansas made that service a part of the regular routine at the hospital.

NEW YORK, 1949 (Grand Master)
In the Grand Master's address he gave much credit to the cooperation of the Deputy Grand Masters in the promotion of his program, one
part of which included the Red Cross Blood Bank effort in which 2,100
pints of blood were donated.
·

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In California, the Masonic Blood Bank is not sanctioned by Grand
Lodge. Local districts, however, have had Blood Banks for the past several years and more and more districts are becoming interested in this
worthy project.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
ARIZONA, 1950 {Committee Report)
In 1949, a resolution was adopted to establish a Public Schools Week
celebration and requiring all Lodges to participate.
The week of January 16, 1950, was designated by the committee in
charge, as Public School Week, at which time the Masons of Arizona
were urged to encourage Community interest in the welfare of the Public Schools.
We have learned from the first Observance that the matter of the
proper time to hold it is important. Some have suggested that we hold
it in November and at the same time as the Arizona Education Association holds its annual meeting, but that would, in our opinion, mean that
our Fraternity and its primary object would be submerged. California
has found from long experience that a week in April is the best time to
hold it, and we are inclined to that view now. However, we will be glad
to abide by the wishes and decisions of the Grand Lodge.
We are certain that the need for the Observance is urgent. We know
as citizens and as Masons that there is a constant and continuous effort
being made to undermine the value and influence of the free public
school. It is our duty as Masons, charged by tradition and history, to
protect and defend and strengthen the free public school. To that end we
recommend that the Observance be continued each year at a time to be
fixed by the Grand Lodge, or the Committee appointed for that purpose,
and that ample funds be budgeted so that such expenses as may be
necessary may be provided for.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

521

Schools Week, and appreciate the enthusiastic response and support
given to the following proclamation concerning our public school
program:
WHEREAS, the Masonic Fraternity has ever been in the forefront
in ·defending the cause of liberty and of sustaining the fundamental
principles of separation of Church and State, and was largely instrumental in the establishment of the public school system in the United
States, and
WHEREAS, Masonry has, through the years been a constant supporter of the free public schools as a component part of the American
way of life and has defended it against all assaults, and
WHEREAS, it is deemed to be important to keep before the public
the influence of Masonry in the formation of our government and of
our public school system and to emphasize the large part such schools
play in sustaining our liberties;
_
.
NOW THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Georgia, Free and Accepted
Masons,· I do hereby proclaim the third week of September in the year
five thousand nine hundred and fifty, A.L., one thousand nine hundred
and fifty, A .D., to be Public Schools Week in the State of Georgia, and
call upon all Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
Georgia to observe by appropriate ceremonies.
MONTANA, 1950 {Grand Lodge)
On Octobar 19th notices were sent to all Lodges that Public Schools
Week be observed the week of November 7th to 12th as those were the
dates set for observing National Public Schools Week.
A Paper was sent to each Lodge to be read along with such program
a~ they decided to have.
Our public schools are a bulwark against all those " isms" that tend
to flourish, and which are using all their efforts to smother and destroy
its influence. We as Masons must at all times be ready to work for and
defend that institution that gives equal rites and opportunities to all
students.

GEORGIA, 1950 {Grand Master)

Proclamation
Public School Week sponsored by the Educational and Historical
Committee with Most Worshipful Brother E. Russell Moulton, P.G.M.,
as Chairman will prove to be an outstanding achievement of this administration. Masonry has always opposed the forces of darkness, ignorance and superstition and has sought light and more light, knowledge,
happiness and wisdom for the people.
We are pleased with the attitude of the brethren toward Public

NEVADA, 1950 {Grand Master)

Public School Week Observance
The response to the request to the Masters of our Constituent
Lodges to have a qualified speaker on the subject of " Public Schools"
on the program for one of their meetings was very gratifying. No report
was received from ten of the Lodges. However, the others were mostly
enthusiastic and encouraging and they considered the subject a timely
one.

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NORTH CAROLINA, 1950 (Grand Master)
A Mason should stand out in his community. Masons should take
an interest, not necessarily as a body, but as individuals in the community. I think the Lodge itself might well take an interest. I'd like ·to
see our Lodge members at any rate, take an interest in the public
schools: Masonry and education have always been carefully allied. We
might make a day when members of the Lodge would go and visit the
schools, find out what is going on there, find out what is needed there,
see what can be done there, see what is being done for the recreation
of children, Masonic and non-Masonic. See what is being done to correct evil conditions of life, which bring crime and disease to your community. Engage in public life.

California observed its 31st Public Schools Week last April with
comments almost unanimous that it was the most successful in our
history.
~.n his proclamation the Grand Master M. W. Ellsworth Meyer said:
Today the educational systems of many states face the greatest
challenge in their history. If the challenge is not as great in this state
and if the schools of California are in somewhat better condition than
those elsewhere, no small portion of the credit is due to the Annual
Observance and to all who have participated. There must be no lessening of interest or support."
_
Public Schools Week in California was conceived by Past Grand
Master Charles Albert Adams, who has played a very important part
for the past 30 years to make the observance the wonderful success it
is today.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

523

un-Masonic conduct, and shall, upon due trial and conviction of said
offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership in any Lodge."
Irving E. Clark, Masonic Correspondent for Wyoming has written
a very interesting and complete report on this question. He presents both
sides, and gives many examples of how the different jurisdictions feel
about it.
Before writing his report he sent a questionnaire to every Grand
Lodge in the United States, and received replies from all but two Grand
Lodges. He asked two questions:
1. "Do the laws of your Grand Lodge permit the constituent Lodges
to accept a petition for the degrees from one who is engaged in the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquor?"
2. "Do the laws of your Grand Lodge permit a member to engage
in the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquor and retain membership
in the Lodge?"
Answers to the first question showed 23 no and 24 yes. Answers
to the second question showed 19 no and 28 yes.
There seems to be the same lack of agreement among the different
Grand Lodges on this question as there is on the question of the
Physical Qualifications of a candidate. The trend again seems to be
towards liberalization. Here, however, more opposition seems to be
appearing. Those jurisdictions that are holding fast or deferring action
until next year are the following: Arkansas, Arizona, Georgia, Kansas,
Kentucky, Colorado, Montana, Nebraska, Oregon, Ohio, South Dakota,
Tennessee, Washington, and Wisconsin. Those who favor liberalization
and who have repealed the above sections are Connecticut, Idaho, Minnesota, and Wyoming.
It is said that 18 Grand Jurisdictions have never had this restrictive
legislation and that a poll of these Jurisdictions by the Grand Master
from Minnesota disclosed that not one of them had experienced any
difficulties because of their leaving the matter to the discretion of their
Lodges.

THE LIQUOR QUESTION
California's law pertaining to this controversial question reads as
follows:
"No Lodge shall receive an application for the degrees of Masonry
or for affiliation, from any one who is engaged either as principal. agent
or employee, in the saloon business (except in connection with and as
part of the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant). or who is a
barkeeper: and any Mason who may hereafter enter upon and engage
in the saloon business, either as owner, agent or employee, except in
connection with and as part of the operation of a bona fide hotel or
restaurant, or who shall become a barkeeper, shall be deemed guilty of

Grand Lodges Favoring a More Liberal Attitude

CONNECTICUT, 1950 (Special Committee)
The Proceedings include a comprehensive report by The Special
Committee on Intoxicating Liquors. The Committee, after a detailed
report, recommends that the Grand Lodge Constitution be amended,
which in effect removes the restrictions governing the management of the
business of selling or manufacturing intoxicating liquors. This resolution
was approved by the necessary two-thirds vote and final action will be
taken at the 1950 Communication.

524

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IDAHO, 1950 (Correspondence Committee)
In Idaho they seem to have simplified the question of eligibility of
petitioners in the liquor business, judging from several decisions by
Grand Master A. Edward Prince. Asked if the petition of a man working as bartender in a licensed saloon was eligible, he replied: "Yes.
If a man is engaged in a lawful undertaking it does not constitute a legal
barrier to the acceptance of his petition."

MINNESOTA, 1950 (Special Committee)
A "Special Committee on Intoxicating Liquors" recommended
amendment of the constitution to eliminate the old barrier against petitioning by anyone connected with the liquor business. The Grand Lodge
approved and individual Lodges will pass upon the character and worth
of an applicant.

WYOMING, 1950 (CorrespondenceCommittee)
The only law we have regarding liquor is found in Sections 341 and
684 of the Code. Section 341 reads: "A Lodge shall not on any pretense, introduce intoxicating liquors, or permit the use of same as a beverage in any of its premises." Section 684 pertains to the use of intoxi..
eating liquor, and reads thus: "It shall be and is hereby made the impera..
tive duty of every Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction to restrain, as far
as possible, the intemperate use of intoxicating liquors or beverages of
every kind and character by any of its members, and each Lodge shall
be held accountable to the Grand Lodge for the faithful performance of
this duty."

Grand Lodges Holding Fast or Deferring Action

ARIZONA, 1949 (Grand Master)
The Grand Master took a fling at Masons engaging in the liquor
business and recommended legislation to correct the evil, observing:
"The manufacture, sale and distribution of intoxicating liquors is
being so abused as to become a great evil in the social life of our State
and Nation. The members of the Fraternity are becoming engaged in
such manufacture, sale and distribution in increasing numbers. The
prosecution of such business by a Master Mason being inconsistent with
his profession and his membership in the Masonic Fraternity. and being
calculated to bring the Fraternity into public disrepute, I believe that
this Grand Lodge should disapprove the conduct of such business and
condemn the engagement therein by a Master Mason as a Masonic
offense."

525

The Committee on General Policy heartily approved the recommendtion, but the jurisprudence committee couldn't agree on the matter and
action was postponed.

ARKANSAS, 1950 (Grand Master)
Anent the Masonic Liquor laws, the Grand Master remarked:
"The greatest inconsistency, in the opinion of your Grand Master,
comes in the very rigid laws we have on the sale of intoxicating liquors
and the very lax laws we have on the use of it. We, in our law, specifically say that it is not a Masonic crime to drink intoxicating liquor
and further that a Lodge should not exercise its discretion to punish for
intemperance beyond that admonition, unless the offense is habitual and
further, that if the Brother gets drunk, repents, confesses and asks forgiveness the Lodge shall not punish him.
"If our Masonic Law could prevent the sale of a single bottle of liquor
it would be different, bu.t as long as it is legally sold, a Mason, if he
wants to buy liquor will do so regardless of any Masonic Law. After all,
it is not the sale of liquor that brings the Masonic Fraternity into disrepute, but it is the purchase and use of liquor by members of the
Fraternity, and their acts in the presence of others, who know them to
be Masons, that is harmful to the reputation of the Craft as a whole."
Arkansas voted down a proposal to repeal the present Liquor Law
and another resolution to modify the present law.

.

GEORGIA, 1950 (CorrespondenceCommittee)
This state seems to be having more than ordinary trouble with the
liquor problem judging from the resolutions that came before the Grand
Lodge at its last communication. One resolution would make it a
Masonic offense to drink any spirituous malt, vinous, intoxicating liquor,
or to belong to a club, fraternity or society which possesses and serves
such potables, and the punishment would be summary expulsion by t~e
Grand Master, presumably without a trial or hearing. Of course this
resolution was promptly rejected and one suspects it was introduced to
becloud the whole matter. Of course, when we look the matter squarely
in the face, it is a henious crime, Masonically, to make or sell or have
anything to do with the liquor traffic, there is a certain element of culpability in the practice of drinking, imbibing, and consuming the vile stuff
either privately cir in public. Rejected all proposals.

KANSAS, 1950 (Grand Master)
Prohibition in Kansas having been repealed in the November, 1948,
election, the following by-law was enacted by the Grand Lodge at the
1949 communication: "The manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquor by

526

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

any Mason shall be deemed an offense against the Body of Masonry."
A number of inquiries were received by the Grand Master for interpre·
tation of the new law, and he was prompted to comment as follows:
"In the judgment of your Grand Master, this by-law does not represent any new policy in Kansas Masonry, but does amount to a declaration that the attitude of the Grand Lodge toward the liquor traffic
remains unchanged, notwithstanding changes in the State laws. For
more than 68 years, the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquor,
except for medical, scientific and mechanical purposes were prohibited
by the laws of Kansas. Any Mason who violated these laws was guilty
of a Masonic offense. Under the new law, any manufacture or sale that
would have been a Masonic offense under prohibition, will still be a
Masonic offense. Any act that was sanctioned by the Masonic Institution under prohibition will continue to be sanctioned.
"A number of Kansas Masons are engaged in selling cereal malt
beverages, under state laws which define intoxicating liquors as containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight. If they conduct orderly,
decent places of business, and the commodity they sell is not intoxicating,
the new law does not affect them."

KENTUCKY, 1950 (Grand Master's Decision)
Opinion No. 14
Bro. James L. McNeely, secretary of Monticello Lodge No. 431
desired an opinion on the following:
Question: Give me an opinion on the eligibility of a man who has
petitioned our Lodge whose occupation is a bottler in a brewery. We
believe according to Regulation 240 of the Book of Constitution that this
party comes under the classification of la1borer.
Answer: I notice you refer to Regulation 240. I shall refer you to
Section 108 reading as follows:
Section 108. Manufacture or sale of liquors. No Lodge shall receive
the petition of anyone who is engaged in the manufacture or sale of
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors as a beverage. Any Lodge guilty of
violating this provision shall be dealt with.
It is my opinion this man referred to above would come under this
section, as being engaged in the manufacture and not entitled to a
petition.

MONTANA, 1949 (Special Committee)
The Committee on Masons in Liquor Business made an extended
report and proposed that laws be amended to make it unmasonic for any
Mason to enter the saloon or liquor business. The amendment was
approved by the Jurisprudence Committee and adopted, effective January l, 1950.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

527

SOUTH DAKOTA, 1949 (Grand Master)
He recommended that their liquor laws be studied to devise a method
of enforcement, or discard it from the by-laws and judge the applicant
solely upon his character as a man.-Amendment offered but action
deferred until next Annual.

NORTH DAKOTA, 1950 (Grand Master)
One official decision was rendered, during the year, and this was in
regard to the liquor traffic. Several communities in North Dakota, are
organizing non-profit corporations, for the purpose of handling all liquor
sold in the community, and they work in co-operation with the municipal
authorities in the community. All earnings are used for civic improvements and no stockholder, or director receives pay for his services.
The question has arisen as to whether a Master Mason could act as
a stockholder, or director of such non-profit corporation, and, in order to
clear up the record and to encourage the orderly handling of the liquor
traffic in these communities, I have rendered the following decision:
"It is iny opinion that the serving of a Master Mason as a stockholder, or director of a non-profit corporation, engaged in the purchase
and sale of intoxicating liquor, does not constitute a Masonic offense,
provided no Master Mason actually engages in the dispensing of intoxicating liquor and derives no profit or other emolument therefrom."

WISCONSIN, 1950 (Grand Master)
Question: .(Lodge S )-May we accept petition of the production
manager of a brewery? This man's work is entirely in connection with
production and the brewery has a sales manager in charge of sales.
Decision: Petition cannot be received. While this man does not personally and directly promote the sales, indirectly he does. The success
of his job depends on his production of quality goods that will sell, and
the success of the sales manager and the entire establishment is depend·
ent on his production services. Not approved.

WASHINGTON, 1950 (Grand Master)
A man working in a brewery as a welder wanted to petition, but the
Grand Master ruled he couldn't if his principal business was in the ·
brewery.

YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS
ARIZONA, 1950 (Committee Report)
Your Committee has noted with great pleasure the renewed interest
in DeMolay work in this Jurisdiction during the past year. Three new

528

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Chap ters have
Chapters have been started, as well as a number of old
been reactivated.
discussion.
In a number of our cities, the forming of Chap ters is under it is our
as
e
subsid
to
ed
allow
be
not
will
st
intere
We trust that this
factor in the
belief that the work of the DeMo lay is a great contributing
of our
Youth
the
in
building of good citizenship and proper leadership
land who come under its influence.
Chap ters.
In 1949, Gran d ·Lodge approved sponsoring DeMol~y
the end
to
rship
leade
youth
and
ation
inspir
r,
"supplying the man powe
that no
but
that DeM olay Chap ters may better serve the members,"
financial assistance be given by the Lodges.
known ~s a
The Gran d Mast er appointed a new committee to be
Lodge ' has
Grand
that
felt
and
"DeM olay Scholarship Committee,"
ct to the
respe
with
ty
activi
while
worth
finally embarked upon a real
olay
DeM
of the
DeMolay. Grand Lodge recommended that all members
the
of
y
facult
Scholarship Committee be chosen from members of the
and
aff
~lagst
at
University of Arizona and the educational institutions
s, one each
Tempe. $2.000 was appropriated for four $500 scholarship attend the
may
who
man
Fresh
for a Senior, Junior, Sophomore and
taff.
University of Arizona or either college at Temp e or Flags
said: "T~
In his addre ss last year M.W . Grand Maste r Pinkerton
our busifrom
time
many of us are living a 'pell..mell' life, never taking
and that
son
eaded
tow-h
ness and social entanglements to give that
ion and
affect
d
neede
much
so
innocent..faced daugh ter of ours that
training.
are leading
"As Masons we must suppo rt those organizations which
~tood,
under
in the training of youth in America. Hitle r and Mussolini l attitudes
menta
the
as does Stalin today, the value of molding and fixing
of youth.
rs of the
"Let us today pay tribute and pledge our support to the leade
. the
hters:
Daug
Job's
Girls,
for
ow
Rainb
of
r
Orde r of DeMolay, Orde
work.
le
Boy Scouts, and other s who are doing such a commendab
CON NEC TICU T, 1950 (Gran d Mast er)
Con?ecticut
Unity among all branches of Maso nry has e~isted in
is 1:11-u.ch
there
nally,
for many years and that condition still exists. Natio
ammity
magn
the
gh
Throu
term.
more unity than at the beginning of this
g~out
throu
exist
ns
relatio
nal
frater
ant
of some Gran d Jurisdictions pleas
aided
.
and
raged
encou
been
have
ments
this country. Youth move
R~nbow
the
and
Boys
for
lay
DeMo
of
r
Orde
The
throughout the state.
they will confor Girls have made some substantial gains and we hope
tinue in their good work for years to come.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

529

DIST RICT OF COL UMB IA, 1949 (Gra nd Lodg e)
lay, "recogniz..
. Grand Lodge took cognizance of the Orde r of DeMo s to inculcate
effort
its
in
ies
occup
n
izatio
organ
mg the place that such an
cter," and ex..
the principles of good citizenship and high moral chara
Lodge rooms
using
of
tended to local DeMo lay Chap ters the privileges
for their meetings.
FLO RIDA , 1950 (Com mitte e Repo rt)
there is a
Your Committee on the Orde r of DeM olay reports that
number
and
ers
memb
in
oth
b
•
r
Orde
this
in
se
stead y and healthy increa
WorMost
the
of .Chapters. We are deeply grateful for the recognition
now
which
n
izatio
shipful Gran d Lodge has given the splendid organ
of
State
the
in
ct
Distri
totals over a million and a half members. One
We
.
failed
have
ter
Chap
a
ish
establ
Florida reports that all efforts to
redouble their
urge that this Committee be continued and its members
District, and
this
in
olay
DeM
in
sted
intere
ers
efforts to ~ssist th~ Broth
member
every
the committee which will be appointed can depend upon
times.
all
at
ance
of the prese nt Committee for assist
INDI ANA , 1950 (Corr espon dence Comm ittee)
a, but the
They are quite strong for youth organizations in Indian
ng to
wanti
rules are r~ther .s~ict and any organization of young folks of regul a..
set
use Masonic buddings must comply with a considerable
tions, which i's as it should be.
ILLI NOIS , 1950 (Gran d Mast er)
sponsorship
He speaks stron gly in favor of Masonic interest in and Scouts.
Boy
and
ers
Build
lay,
DeMo
oning
menti
,
ments
of youth move
MON TAN A, 1950 (Gra ndM aster )
DeMolay. It
I urge all Maso ns to take an interest in the Orde r of
men who
young
the
of
ns
citize
teaches those things which make •better
ers.
memb
e
becom
to
tunity
have an oppor
s glad to
The officers and members of DeMo lay Chap ters are alway
tance
impor
the
to
adds
it
feel
They
ngs.
meeti
have Maso ns attend their
.
of their Order
day" of the
An interesting incident of the "evening of the first
r-stone of
corne
the
of
laying
Annual Communication in 1940 was the
is the
This
Boys.
for
olay
DeM
of
r
the DeMo lay Memorial of the Orde
the
for
d
erecte
here,
anyw
first
the
ps
perha
first building in Mont ana,
lay.
exclusive occupancy and use of the Orde r of DeMo

530

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

531

OHIO, 1949 (Committee Report)

NEVAD A, 1950 (Grand Master)

A committee studying the question of DeMolay bodies being permitted to meet in Masonic Temples asked for more time. The principal
question is apparentl y whether favorable action in this ~nstan~e would
open the way for similar requests by other non-Masonic bodies.

The. training of youth has been recognized as a most important
factor in any long-rang e movement, whether religious or political,
whether for a good purpose or for evil. It is well said "Our Youth Is Our
Life." We, as Masons in Nevada, have an obligation to support the
leaders of the Order of the DeMolay and the Order of Rainbow for
Girls, otherwise our Fraternity will remain static or deteriorate.

OKLAH OMA, 1950 (Grand Master)
In commenting on the Order of the Rainbow for Girls, and the Order
of DeMolay for Boys, the Grand Master states that the best and wisest
investment we can make today is in our American youth. Especially. he
tells us, that we should be interested in supporting and encouraging
such splendid organizations as those which are sponsored by the Eastern
Star and Masonry.

MISSOU RI, 1950 (Grand Master)
One of the finest of all youth organizations is the DeMolay. Organized some 30 years ago the growth of the Order has been little short of
phenomenal. Today the membership is over one million and is international in scope.
In over a thousand Chapters Masonic teachings are inculcated
through the medium of an impressive ritual. From the DeMolay Chapters
come the citizens and in many instances the Freemasons of tomorrow.
At a time when Masonry and Masonic influence are so essential to
the welfare of our nation it is my opinion that this organization of trained
young men deserves some recognition from Masonry. I do not recommend or even suggest sponsorship of DeMolay Chapters by Masonic
Lodges but I do believe that moral support at least is in order. .
Certainly Masons as individuals should welcome the opportunity to
encourage the boys of the DeMolay to attain a true understanding of the
·basic principles of our fraternity, thus preparing them for future
Masonic membership.

OREGO N, 1950 (Grand Master)
The Grand Master urged "moral support" of work of Youth Organizations, i.e.. DeMolay, Rainbow for Girls, Job's Daughters , which he
deemed constructive.

NEW YORK, 1949 (Grand Master)
He had a splendid report on progress of the DeMolay. The 1948
Masters of the Second Manhatta n District raised $1,200.00 to pay for
uniforms, rent, etc. Twelve Districts were working with Boy Scout
troops. All youth movements such as these should be encouraged for .
they offer the hope for the future, he said.

RHODE ISLAND , 1950 (Grand Master)
My sincere thanks to the many brethren throughout this Grand
Jurisdiction who are serving as "Dads" and in other ways contributing
to the welfare of our boys in DeMolay. One of the finest services we
~an rende.r to Freemaso nry and our Great Nation in the days to come
is by helping our boys and girls to hold fast to the ideals that have made
our. Fraternity and our Nation great in an age when they are surrounde d
by influences that are hard to combat. It is gratifying to see the increased
activity in both DeMolay and Rainbow for Girls, and I hope that many
more Chapters of each will be established in this Grand Jurisdiction.

MICHIG AN, 1950 (Board of Control Report)
During the current year, the Order of DeMolay in Michigan has
shown a very healthy growth, the direct result of the splendid work done
by the State and District Deputies. Few members of the Masonic Fraternity realize how many hours these brothers devote to this important
matter dealing directly with the young men of the State in the fourteen
to twenty-one year bracket.
The. current Grand. Council of DeMolay Annual report lists fiftytwo active Chapters, with 3, 109 members. In addition to this, there are
at present ten additional new Chapters operating under Letters Temporary, or re-established, in Wayne. Tawas, Fenton, Dimondale, Mt.
Pleasant, Muskegon, Port Huron, Northville, Commerce, and Architect
(Detroit). These have additional memberships of approximately three
hundred.

NORTH DAKOT A, 1950 (Grand Master)
First-Ou r Obligation to Youth. There is a great responsiihility,
which lies squarely upon the shoulders of every Master Mason, and
that is the obligation we have toward the Youth of this generation, and
of those to come. Other organizations are meeting this obligation in a
realistic manner, while we have been content to interest ourselves in
DeMolay, Rainbow, Boy and Girl Scouts, and let it go at that. If we are
to combat, successfully, the infiltration of Communism, Race Prejudice,
Religious Intolerance and Bigotry, into our American way of life, we
must work out a definite program of education of our Youth and put it

533

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

into operation, at once. We must include ALL of our Youth, the rich
and the poor, the privileged and the under privileged, the good citizen
and the delinquent; all make up our juvenile citizenry of today, and if
they are to be the useful citizens of tomorrow, it is our obligation to help
make them such. Only by education and example, and by impressing
upon young minds the true value of this heritage that is ours, ca~ the~e
"isms" be eradicated and our influence. as Masons, be recognized in
America and the world. Make this your program for the year, not for
one month, but for twelve, and whatever else you may do, will be of
secondary importance. .

sponsorship of Chapters of DeMolay by individual Lodges in this
Grand Jurisdiction.

532

SASKATCHEW AN, 1949
Asked if a Lodge could sponsor a Chapter of DeMolay, the Grand
Master referred the matter to the Jurisprudence Committee. They reported they could find no con.stitutional provision that would be violated in so doing.

VERMONT, 1950 {Grand Master)
The Grand Master's address reveals his deep understanding and
fine Masonic character. He speaks earnestly of Masonry's obligation to
the youth of our land, and urges the brethren and Lodges of Vermont
to give their wholehearted support to the Order of DeMolay for boys
and the Order of Rainbow for girls.
.

WYOMING, 1950 {Jurisprudence Committee)
A proposal to contribute funds toward DeMolay and Job's Daughters
was disapproved by the Jurisprudence Committee because such contributions would violate code provisions.

WASIIlNGTON , 1950 {Grand Master)
On Youth Organizations he remarked: "To encourage and assi!lt
the youth of our nation is a prime opportunity for those of us who want
to preserve and protect our heritage."

YORK GRAND LODGE OF MEXICO, 1949
The Grand Lodge went on record as authorizing and approving the

It is quite apparent from the number of Grand Lodge comments that
the responsibility of the fraternity to the youth of our country is becoming more and more evident. Youth movements such as DeMolay, Job's
Daughters, Rainbow Girls. and also Boy Scouts in several jurisdictions
receive the backing of many Grand Lodges.
Some Grand Lodges such as Oklahoma, Missouri, Oregon, Nevada,
North Dakota, Washington and others, ask their Lodges for moral support. Indiana, and the District of Columbia are willing under certain
conditions to have some of these Youth Organizations use their Lodge
rooms. Other Grand Lodges-Arizona, lllinois, Michigan, York Grand
Lodge of Mexico, and New York go a step further and actually participate in sponsoring some of these Organizations. Arizona also has a
"DeMolay Scholarship Committee," which appropriates $2,000 every
year for four $500 scholarships.
In California, the following resolution was passed in 1922:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
the jurisdiction of California do hereby approve the ideals, aims and
purposes of ihe Order of DeMolay; and he it further
Resolved, That the members of the Fraternity are requested to lend
their moral and personal support to any Chapter of the Order of DeMolay now organized in their city or community, or that may hereafter be organized, as a method of carrying out the ideals embodied
in the teachings of the Order.

MASONRY vs. COMMUNISM
The only true solution of our political and social problems lies in
cultivating everywhere the spirit of brotherhood, of fellow feeling and
understanding between man and man, and the willingness to treat a
man as a man.-Theodore Roosevelt.
No solution has been offered regarding this problem. Many Grand
Lodges have adopted resolutions condemning it in the strongest language
possible. Many Grand Masters. Grand Orators and other Grand Lodge
Officers have condemned Communism as abhorrent to Masons and
repugnant to the concepts of Freemasonry. Some jurisdictions have gone
so far as to ban Communists from becoming members of the Fraternity.

53i

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

An exception to this trend is found in the Grand Lodge of England.
.The Grand Lodge of England has gone on record as refusing to
permit its Lodges to join in expressions of condemnation of Communism. This Grand Lodge is trying to be consistent and believes that
Masonic aloofness from all governmental philosophies, including those
that are inimical to human freedom, is the only attitude for organized
Masonry to take. This seems like a wise decision to the Dominie.
Masonry and Communism have nothing in common, neither does
Masonry and certain religious philosophies have anything in common,
but we know better than to denounce any religious sect in a Masonic
gathering or anywhere else lest it be assumed to be the official position
of Masonry. Some Masonic orators denounce Communism because they
lack a soundly positive Masonic message. If we practice our Masonry
we will find ample opportunity to resist Communism without involving
our Lodges. The process of condemnation is a progressive one and there
will be no l?nd to the things some Masons will want Masonry to condemn, after we have made a start on Communism.

ing members of the Fraternity. While we are in hearty accord with all
the sentiments expressed, yet we do not understand why the issue, if
it may so be called, of Communism should be injected into Freemasonry.
We demand of our candidates a belief in a Supreme Being and a promise
to be loyal and obedient to the laws of the country in which they live.
To this Communists cannot subscribe. If candidates or members were to
so affirm they would be guilty of perjury, which would be unmasonic
conduct. Why denounce Communism, detestable and repugnant as it
is, alone? If Modern Masonry intends to engage in public affairs let it
also take cognizance of the insidious and subversive propaganda of
other organizations which do not have the welfare of our Country at
heart. We realize the danger of Communism and all subversive movements but in our humble opinion if we continue the course we appear to
have embarked upon we will sooner or later enter a field far removed
from the fundamental concepts of the Institution.

TENNESSEE, 1950 (Correspondence Committee)

535

INDIANA, 1950 (Committee on Jurisprudence)
The Committee on Jurisprudence, having considered the Grand
Master's General Recommendation No. 1, recommends that this Grand
Lodge reaffirm its unswerving opposition to Communism and to all communistic and subversive activities.

By far the subject claiming most attention and causing greatest concern is the advance of Communism and the possibility even of its infiltration into our own ranks. Indeed proof is at hand that in some instances
this has ·b een true already. To prevent the further spread of this insidious
evil, many Grand Lodges are changing their form of petitions to include
questions which will require definite statements of loyalty and declaration of principles, and some are requiring the submission of a birth certificate to accompany every petition for the Degrees or affiliation. Nearly
every Grand Lodge has adopted some form of condemnation of Communism, and many are including various other "isms" prevalent in our
own country, in their denunciations. Our own state, through the courageous leadership of Grand Master E. Carl Coleman, has taken a leading
part in this fight. M.W. Bro. Coleman has brought a very forceful message at each of the thirty District meetings held throughout our state,
which were attended by thousands of Tennessee Masons. In each of
these messages he has outlined the methods of these subversive elements
and urged the Brethren to combat them with their vote, their influence
and their unceasing vigilance. His addresses have been quoted widely by
the press throughout the state, thus making Masonry's influence felt outside its own circles.

The brethren are keenly aware of the problems facing the Fraternity and are awake to their responsibility in seeing that no person
enters our portals who is a member of an organization that has for its
purpose the destruction of our Democratic form of government, our
Fraternity and other American institutions. They were practically
unanimous in their opinion that Freemasonry should take a more active
and a more aggressive stand against any such organization, whether it
be called "Communism" or any other "ism."

VIRGINIA, 1949 (Foreign Correspondent)

omo, 1950 (Grand Lodge)

Grand Masters and Grand Jurisdictions condemned Communism as
abhorrent to Masons and repugnant to the concepts of Freemasonry. In
some Jurisdictions laws were passed banning Communists from becom-

The following recommendation was concurred in, and unanimous
consent having been granted the proposal, as amended, was adopted
and reads as follows:
·

LOUISIANA, 1949 (Grand Lodge)
Legislati9n was adopted banning the admission of Communists to
Masonry and ordering trial and expulsion of any Communists now
members.

NEVADA, 1950 (Grand Master)

536

PROCEEDINGS OP TH!:

Communism
"Any Mason, who is a member of, or holds allegiance to, or espouses
the cause of a Communist or other organizations advocating the o:verthrow of the Government of the United States by force or other illegal
means, shall upon Masonic trial and conviction thereof, be expelled.
"Such membership allegiance, or espousal shall be a disqualification
for initiation in or affiliation with a Lodge of Master Masons."
The action taken on each section of the foregoing report is set out
thereunder, then following its completion the entire report was, on
motion, adopted as a whole.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

537

medicine we are taking is slightly bitter and somewhat habit-forming,
hut we are taking it in such small doses it isn't too unpleasant. After all,
it has a stimulating effect: sort of like a spring tonic. It gives us a sense
of strength, security and well-being. We hardly notice the loss of our
normal sense of independence if the doses are taken with sufficient
frequency.
"It's a remarkable system. Money is collected from the many· and
paid to the few. It works beautifully until the few become many and the
ratio becomes fifty-fifty, then the many receive and each helps everyone
but himself. Then it is that socialism blossoms out in full force and
effect."

MONTANA, 1950 (Grand Chaplain)
FLORIDA, 1950 (Grand Lodge)

Somewhere in America there are men who can even break down
Joe Stalin and his Politburo. Certainly we cannot see any results from
getting tough with Russia. Since the policy of getting tough with Russia
was announced there has been an increasing acceleration of the deterioration in the relations between the two countries. You don't get people
to do something for you by getting tough. In the training of the child
it has some place but adults do not react to such a policy in a favorable
manner. The opposite is true. Ask yourselves what you would do, what
your attitude would be, if someone announced he was going to get tough
with you. The developments since that policy was announced have been
disastrous. Where can we find the man who can win Joe Stalin? He is in
America now. Is he among the 3,000,000 Masons? Is he among the
Masons of Montana? Could be! Let's find him.

Resolved, By the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the Grand Jurisdiction of Florida, that Florida
Masonry denounces and condemns Communism in all its forms as
atheistic and un-American ideology, and that no true Mason or American citizen, loyal to his country, will give comfort, encouragement, help
or support thereto in even the slightest degree, or any tolerance therefor
by conduct or association; that any American and Mason so doing
would be guilty of most traitorous disloyalty to his country and to every
principle of Free Masonry; and that all Free Masons, both as Masons
and as American citizens, are hereby called upon to be unceasing in their
resolute and determined opposition to this enemy of all that we hold
precious to o~r very existence. Resolution adopted.

VERMONT, 1950 (Grand Master)

MISSISSIPPI, 1951 (Grand Lecturer)

On the subject of Socialism and the Welfare State, he speaks as
follows:
"We are funny people, aren't we? Socialism! How we dislike that
word. The spirit of 1776 still lingers. Welfare State! If someone should
tell us that this country is becoming a welfare state we would protest
in horror. The term reeks of Communism. But on the other hand, we
are not too hesitant about accepting the benefits to he obtained from a
liberal government. We will accept welfare if it is sugar coated. There
is an internal conflict, of course, but in the end we will take it. Why
not? we say. If we don't someone else will. So it goes. Social security,
socialized medicine, unemployment compensation, old age pensions, they
are all acceptable. Even now many of our cities and towns are figuring
on how to get a school from the new Federal education program. It's a
match money proposition. The citizens of the town pay for only half a
school. The other half comes from everyone else in the country. It's the
old highway program in a new costume. Oh! We detest socialism, but,
believe it or not, we are willingly becoming socialistic! The liberalistic

A laxity in balloting has allowed Communism to become a menace
in America: to infiltrate through and through our schools, government,
churches, and even ·our homes. This hydra-headed monster could not
have existed in the early days of America. It exists today because the
voters have put into the chambers of Congress through the years men
who have failed by their votes to keep the power of government in the
hands of the law-making body and curb centralized government.
Too many men, including Masons, vociferously condemn Communism, totalitarianism, dictatorship, and regimentation in foreign lands
and then, complacently, accept regimentation and socialism at home,
especially if it brings pecuniary benefits to himself or his community.
If these ideologies are obnoxious and hurtful to people abroad so much
that we are willing for our boys to die to crush them, surely, it is not
asking too much to ask that we crush all these ideologies and unAmericanisms with our ballots. Let us, henceforward, live in accord with
our denudation of every form of regimentation and infringement of the
individual's right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Talking

539

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

about it does very little, if any, good, unless words are followed by
deeds. And those deeds in the form of the ballot for true Americans for
local, state, and national offices are the deeds that can avail.

cordial invitation to attend and to bring his ledy. Ted took not <>nly his
lady but also his daughter, and they had a most enjoyable trip.
We learn from history that in the "Gold Rush" of 1849 it was only
natural that many of the newcomers to California were Masons. Fifteen
Grand Lodges, from Connecticut to Florida, issued charters or dispensations for the formation of new Lodges under their jurisdiction in California. It is of interest to our Tennessee brethren to know that two of
our "missing" Lodge numbers were assigned to California. In 1849 we
issued a dispensation to a group of our brethren to form San Juan Lodge
No. 171 at Caledonia, California, and in 1850 a dispensation was issued
to a similar group at Havilah, California, to form Havilah Mining Lodge
No. 196. We have no further record of either Lodge, nor has the Grand
Lodge of California. We have no way of knowing what Tennessee
members had a part in the organization of the new Grand Lodge. We
do know, however, that Townsend A'. Thomas of Clarksville was elected
Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of California in 1851, and also
served as Deputy Grand Master in 1853 and 1855. He was Grand Secretary of the Grand Royal Arch Chapter of California in 1858, returned
to Tennessee and served as Grand High Priest of our Grand Royal Arch
Chapter in 1867. Undoubtedly many other Tennesseans have had a
prominent part in California Masonry, but we have the record of only
one other, John B. Moore, who made an outstanding record as Grand
Master in 1946. He is a native of Hustburg, in Humphreys County,
and resided in that county until young manhood. We are proud of his
record in California.

538

SOUTH CAROLINA, 1950 (Grand Master)
If liberty is to survive in the world, American men must begin to
think. They must recognize Socialistic tendencies in all forms. They
must be willing to admit that, while conditions in capitalistic America
are not ideal, there are underprivileged people, there is racial prejudice,
and there are slums that exist in many cities. They must remember also
that the humblest descendant of those, from whose hands the shackles of
siavery have recently been broken, has more dignity attached to his
personality and ·enjoys e better standard of living than any class of
people in those countries which have embraced Socialism or Communism.
To say that, because ideal conditions do not exist in America, free
enterprise should be destroyed, is just as sensible as to say that, because
we still have ignorant people and atheists, we should burn our schoolhouses and churches.

COMMENTS REGARDING CALIFORNIA GRAND
LODGE CENTENNIAL
TENNESSEE, 1951 (Grand Master)
One of the greatest gatherings of Masons in America took place
in San Francisco on October 9-13, 1950, when the Grand Lodge of
California met to celebrate its lOOth anniversary. It was estimated that
10,000 Master Masons were in attendance at Civic Auditorium when
the Grand Lodge opened at 10:00 A.M. on October 9. Included in this
group were 36 Grand Masters, 23 Grand Secretaries, 3 Deputy Grand
Masters, one Grand Treasurer and 7 Past Grand Masters. Eight of the
Grand Secretaries (including Tennessee) also represented their Grand
Masters. Those in attendance were from Canadian jurisdictions from
New Brunswick to British Columbia, Costa Rica, Mexico, El Salvador,
Philippine Islands, China, and the United States from Maine to South
Carolina on the East Coast (including all of the New England States),
Central. West and Western States, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Virginia, Maryland, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Tennessee and
Texas.
One of the great disappointments of my year was not being able to
attend the California celebration. However, we were glad that our
Grand Secretary, M.W. Brother "Ted," could attend and represent us.
We shall always be grateful to the California brethren for their wonderful hospitality and the many courtesies extended to Ted and Mrs.
Doss and their lovely daughter, Jane, on the occasion of their visit to
California. Every Grand Master and Grand Secretary was given a most

NEW MEXICO, 1951 (Grand Master)
Early in my Masonic year, I received a most gracious invitation
from the Grand Lodge of California to be present and assist them in
celebrating the centenary celebration of the founding of their Grand
Lodge. I hastened to accept and, accompanied by my wife, was graciously received and entertained during the week, October 7 to 14, in
San Francisco. I marvel at their accomplishments and the manner in
which they organized and handled such an outpouring of Masons as
were present. The Grand Lodge and its officers were graciousness and
hospitality personified and the whole occasion was one of such brilliance
and achievement that it will be long remembered wherever Masons congregate. Ellsworth Meyer was every inch a Grand Master.

MAINE, 1951 (Grand Master)
Grand Lodge of California-Centennial Celebration
In accordance with the vote of Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication fn 1950, I attended the Centennial Anniversary of the Grand
Lodge of California which was held in San Francisco, October 9-13,

541

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1950. Among the guests were thirty-three Grand Masters, four Deputy
Grand Masters, one Grand Treasurer, twenty-two Grand Secretaries,
two appointive Grand Lodge Officers ap.d eleven Past Grand Masters.
These represented thirty-six Grand Lodges in the United States, five
Provinces from Canada and three foreign countries.
It is impossible in a limited space of time to go into detail as to the
meetings of the Grand Lodge. The business meetings were held in the
Civic Auditorium each day throughout the week before a capacity crowd
of the brethren of California. There were reported as present, 2,638
officers and representatives from 586 Lodges and nine Lodges under
dispensation, together with 2,286 Master Masons. Each guest was
individually received by the Grand Master and accorded the Grand
Honors.
During our stay in San Francisco, every courtesy was extended to
us by the officers and members of the Grand Lodge of California, and
their wonderful hospitality will long remain with all the guests who
were present.
Several of the visiting Grand Masters were called upon to address
the Grand Lodge, to the pleasure of all present. The Grand Lodge of
Maine was honored by having its Grand Master requested to present a
Testimonial, in behalf of all the visiting guests, in appreciation for the
unbounded hospitality and sincere friendship evinced by the Grand
Lodge of California, its officers and members.
I wish to express by sincere appreciation to the brethren of the
Grand Lodge of Maine for making it possible for me to attend this
Celebration. It is difficult to measure the good derived from such
contacts.

Your committee offers the following gold nuggets dug from the rich
mine of Masonic activities as reported in the many foreign and domestic
communications which they reviewed.

540

THE OLDEST MASONIC LODGE
We are often asked what is the oldest Masonic Lodge in the world?
It is the Lodge of Edinburgh No. 1, sometimes known as Mary's
Chapel, and in July last year, it observed the 350th anniversary of its
establishment, at which time Masonic dignitaries from far and near
journeyed to Edinburgh, Scotland, where the Lodge continues to
carry on.
And it has records to prove its long time existence for its first five
pages of minutes incorporate the Schaw Statutes which are dated
December 28, 1598: six months later, July 31, 1599, are to be found the
minutes which confirm the Lodge's claim to the oldest existing Masonic
minutes.
ANNIVERSARIES IN RHODE ISLAND
Two interesting events of the year were celebrations of anniversaries: St. John's Lodge No. 1 at Newport, being two hundred years
old: Friendship No. 7, one hundred and fifty years old.
ANY OLDER MASON?
The oldest Mason in Illinois, Brother W. B. Decker of Fairbury,
was present and accorded honors his due. Brother Decker was at that
time ninety-four years old and had been a Mason for seventy-three
years.
JOHN HANCOCK IN THE NEWS
John Hancock, illustrious signer (in large type) of the Declaration
of Independence, although an American citizen, was made a Freemason
in a Quebec, Ontario, Lodge, Merchant's Lodge No. 1, in 1760. Later on
he affiliated with St. Andrew's Lodge in Boston.

The scarcity of comments is due to the fact that we have only received three of the 1951 Communications. Further comments will probably appear in next year's report.

MASONIC "TEA" PARTY
29 of the 56 signers of the Declaration of Independence were
Masons, the Boston Tea Party was a called off Master Mason's Lodge.
Every one of the officers of the Revolution from the rank of Major to
the Commander-in-chief was a Mason, except Benedict Arnold.

GOLD DIGGINGS

PAST GRAND MASTER TRUMAN
Missouri witnessed the installation of Grand Lodge officers for
·1949-50 by a Past Grand Master who also is President of the United
States, Harry S. Truman. The President flew 1,000 miles to induct into
the office of Grand Master the brother who he had appointed in line
ten years before.

The fact that this report was written in Grass Valley. the heart of
the Mother Lode Country, where gold quartz was discovered in 1851,
and where Madison Lodge No. 23 will celebrate its one hundredth
anniversary in May, 1952, suggested this subject heading, "Gold
Diggings."

543

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

NEW ORGANIZATION IN NEW YORK
Something new. The Masonic War Veterans of New York have
been incorporated. A Master Mason who is a veteran of the Spanish
American War or World Wars I and II are eligible for membership.
M.': W.' .Brother Charles W. Froessel, P.G.M., is the first president.

An interesting paragraph of the report reads:
"The Library's unique gift of the year was an oil painting received
fro~ Carl H. Claudy, who in turn, and in a round,about way, had
r~c~1ved it from the artist, a Mason in Czechoslovakia. It represents in a
V1V1d style the three degrees as practiced in the artist's own country.''
By legislation at this meeting of the Grand Lodge there will soon be
erected a new home for the Library in a $400,000 building designed for
use as a Masonic Library, Museum, Memorial Hall and Administrative
Offices which is shown by an architect's sketch in the current volume
of proceedings.

542

CALIFORNIA CENTENNIAL
M.'.W.'.Brother Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Master of California, led
off with a masterful address on "Freemasonry's Obligation to Maintain
True Americanism.'' He placed stress on holding fast to those funda~
mental principles and ideals which have made America the Land of
the Free.
GOVERNOR OF MICHIGAN
Gov. G. Mennen Williams of Michigan was made a Master Mason
recently in Lotus Lodge No. 549, in the presence of 1,600 brethren.

SON TO FATHER
Presentation of 50 Year Button
The Grand Master, M.'.W.'.Lynn B. Brodrick of Kansas, directed
M.'.W.'.Samuel G. Wiles to present his father, Brother Harry Max,
well Brodrick, at the Altar.

A CRIPPLED CHILDREN'S CLINIC
At Tucson the Grand Master participated in ceremonies of ground
breaking for a "Square and Compass Crippled Children's Clinic" to be
erected at a cost of $70,000, contributed by Masonic bodies, churches,
civic organizations, including $35,000 by the Labor Unions. Although
not exclusively a Masoinc enterprise, its Board of Directors is com~
prised of 24 Masons and some pre on a mixed Advisory Board.

WHERE ARE THE YOUNGER MASONS?
The Grand Secretary of Colorado gave a very interesting analysis
of the ages of Colorado Masons. The average age is above 50 and the
average at death is above 67. Only 21 % are under 40. He then rightly
asks: "Where are the younger men?"

REALLY DESTITUTE
Under Alabama we note their rule that their Masonic Home cannot
admit "a blind brother or sister" nor a "diseased or disabled person" nor
one with "means to pay for their keep," "neither can one with sufficient
income to pay part of their keep be entered."

several Lodges in this Jurisdiction as the Masonic birthday of George
Washington, and that the M.'.W.'.Grand Master shall, each year, at
a reasonable time prior to that date, issue and circulate a proclamation
directing the said celebration with appropriate exercises to be carried
out by the several Lodges, whereupon. it shall be the duty of the proper
officers of each Lodge in the Jurisdiction to arrange for and comply with
the proclamation, and thereafter make due report to the Grand Master
of the proceedings of the Lodge in that respect; Provided, that if such
date should fall upon Sunday or some other date deemed inconvenient
by the Grand Master, then in that event, he may, if considered advisable,
fix another date in his proclamation for such celebration.
Adopted August 22, 1923-Wyoming.

"HIGHEST" DEGREES
The Grand Master also made a number of visits to other jurisdic~
tions, one of interest bei~g to Corinthian Lodge No. 42 in Kokomo,
Colorado, which claims that it confers the "highest" degrees of any
Masonic body in the United States. It is located at an elevation of 11,000 ·
feet above sea level.
/OWA MASONIC LIBRARY
The Iowa Masonic Library is truly:
"A golden storehouse in which the art, intelligence and wisdom of
the Craft are preserved.''
The report of the Grand Secretary and Librarian shows that the
great work of this 106~year~old institution continues with increasing
value. Its use is worJd,wide and worJd,appretjated.

DO YOU CELEBRATE NOVEMBER 4th?
Resolved, That November 4th in each year be celebrated by the

THE GOLDEN URN
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts calls down from Labor to
Refreshment.
The menu card hore a cut of the Golden Urn made by Paul Revere
Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts from 1795~1797, which con~
tains a lock of George Washington's hair, and is one of the most prized
possessions of the Grand Lodge.

544

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Paul Blanshard's "AMERICAN FREEDOM AND
CATHOLIC POWER"

WHAT WILL RESEARCH WORKERS FIND?

Mention should be made of an outstanding book of the year which
has been added to the Grand Lodge Library, and which should appeal
to all free-thinking Masons, although it does not deal with any Masonic
subject. It is Paul Blanshard's "American Freedom and Catholic
Power," a scholarly, thought-provoking work in which the author contends that our fundamental ideals of democracy are being threatened
by the Catholic hierarchy. In the book he reminds the American people
of the great importance of religious freedom, which is an heritage belonging to American Catholics and American Protestants alike.

WILL THIS EVER HAPPEN AGAIN?
A request received by the Grand Master of Maine to confer the
Master Mason degree on six candidates on November 14, 1950, at a
special communication of said Lodge. the six candidates being own
brothers.
A search of the records indicates that this is the first time that this
situation has ever arisen in this jurisdiction, and, in all probability. it
never will happen again, when six blood brothers will apply to a Lodge
at the same time for the degrees of Masonry.
After serious consideration of this matter, feeling it to be for the best
interests of Masonry in that District, and believing that no precedent
would be established. I issued a dispensation to Marsh River Lodge for
the purpose requested.

ARE WE BETTER THAN AVERAGE?
We. as Freemasons, are supposed to be better than average in our
respective communities. As individuals we should watch the trend of
affairs and of our government - Local. State and National - and we
should think when we vote. We should support the church of our faith.
our school systems and our youth organizations. We should stand foursquare behind those projects which make for a better community. Never
should we leave our Light under a bushel-there to remain dormant and
inactive.
By John W. Hall, Gr. M. of New Mexico.

HOW TRUE - Gr. M. Lander of Maine Says:
We should guard against assembly line methods and adhere to the
principle which I have so often advocated during the past year, that our
primary object should be to put more Masonry into men, rather than
more men into Masonry.

545

President Truman is now the Senior Warden of the Missouri Lodge
of Research and, at the coming election, undoubtedly will be chosen
Worshipful Master.
·
In conversation with the President in Washington February last he
assured the Missouri delegation that if elected he would accept. He
further announced his intention to open the Library of Congress for the
photostating of records dealing with Masonry and by so doing would
render what he considered his outstanding service to the Craft.
Thus the Missouri Lodge of Research would have recourse to a rich
field of Masonic material not available elsewhere or at any other time.

POSTSCRIPT TO GOLD-Nova Scotia, 1950
"The crest and crowning of all good,
Life's final star, is Brotherhood;
And it will bring again to earth
Her long lost Poesy and Mirth;
Will send new light on every face,
A Kingly power upon the race.
An' till it comes. we, men. are slaves,
And travel downward to the dust of graves.
"Come then, clear the way, clear the way;
Blind creeds and Kings have had their day;
Break the dead branches from the path;
Our hopes are in the aftermathOur hopes are in heroic men,
Star-led to build the world again.
To this event the ages ran,
Make way for Brotherhood-Make way for Man."
-

EDWIN MARKHAM

INDEX

FOR

1951

A
Page
Addresses by Distinguished Guests
Fred W. Moore, Grand Master of Arizona·-------·----------------------···-·-·······-··············· 130
Harold N. Nelson, Grand Master of \Vashington ................................................ 216
Ralph S. Nisbitt, Grand Master of Oregon................ ------------------------------------........ 216
Harry D. Proudfoot, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Oregon ________ 217
Advance Notice of Proposed Legislation
Adoption of Part of ProposaL................................................................................. 259
Proposal .................................... __ ............................................................................ ____ 44
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes .......................................... 257
Affiliation, Effective Date 0£.. ................................................................................... --------- 279
Affiliation, Method of ..............................................................................................48, 58, 279
Amendments to By-Laws
List of .............................................................................................................. _............ 62
Approval of ........................................................................................................ _......... 219
Annual Returns
Audit ............................................................................................................................ 303
Details by Lodges ........................................................................................................ 390
Assets Listed
Endowment Fund ........................................................................................................ 321
Grand Lodge ................................................................................................................ 306
Masonic Homes .............................................................................................. __ .......... 331
Appendix
General ........................................................................................................................ 401
Special .......................................................................................................................... 301
Application Form
Decision of Grand Master.......................................................................................... _ 24
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .................................................................. 276
Appointment of Grand Lodge Officers ...................... ______________ ·-------·------·-------·-------- .... 298
Appointment of Trial Master............................................. ----------------------------------------------- 275
Appointments by Grand Master........................................................................................ 19
Appropriations
Employment Bureaus .......................................................................................... 103, 294
Listing of .............................. __ ................................................................... ___________________ 294
Automatic Expulsion ...................................................................... _.................... 45, 253, 275
Auditors Reports
Annual Returns .......................................................................................................... 303
Grand Lodge ·-------------------------·-------------·----------------------------------------------------------------------- 304
Endowment Fund ........................................................................................... ___________ 319
Masonic Homes .............................................................................................. __________ 328

B
Balloting - Group
Proposal on -------------------------·------------------------·----- -----------------------------------------·------------- 45
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes .......................................... 253
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.................................................................. 280
Barkeepers
Proposed Amendment Section 332Yz .................................................................. 42, 271
Proposed Repeal of Section 210 ...................................................................... 44, 271
Special Committee to Study Law.................................................. ---------------------------- 272
Benicia Temple, Use of... ................................................................................... 40, 253, 284
Beverly Management Fund ................................................................................................ 389
Blue Lakes Lodge No. 714
Charter Granted .......................................................................................................... 250
Dispensation Issued .... _...................................................................... _---------------------- 61
Board of Control Report... .................................................. -------------------------------------------------101
Brazee, Albert J., Jr., Past Grand Master of Philippine Islands, Received................ 51
Budget Adopted .................................................................................................................. 293

548

INDEX

Page
Budget for 1951-52 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------302
Building Fund
Audit ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 336
List of Contributions---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------By-Laws, Amendments t0----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------62, 389
220
Report of Committee on---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 219

c
Canteen Inventory, Decoto.... -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Carleson, Richard V ., Received _________________ ----------------------------------·----------------------------------· 365
51
Carlson, Enoch B., Received---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------51
Castro Valley Lodge No. 713
Charter Granted -----------------------------·----------------•----------------------·-----------------------------------· 250
Dispensati on Granted -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------60
Centennial Book ---------------------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------------· 58
Ceremonies
Constitutin g Lodges -------- ----------------------·-------------·----------------------------------------------------- 157
Committee Continued --------------------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------- 271
Dedication of a Masonic HalL .. ----------------------------------------------------------·------------------- 160
Instituting New Lodges.--------------------------------------------------------------------------·-·---------------- 150
Laying of Cornerston
es__ ____________________________________________________________________________________________ 146
Presentatio n of a Fifty Year Button .... ------------------------------------------------------------------- 165
Report of Committee on.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--Certilkatio n of Proceedings.-------------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------- 139
3
Certificate of Standing
Form of ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 278
Proposed --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 58
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence _______________________------------------------------------------------------------- 277
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes
________________________________________ 252
Charters, Report of Committee on-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------250
Club Houses
Grand Masters Report on·-------------------------------·--------------------------·------------------------------ 21
List of Directors---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 409
Report of Berkeley Trustees.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 122
Report of Los Angeles Trustees-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 128
Columbia Temple Restoratio n _________________ ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 201
Columbia Temple Vault-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------58,
289
Committees of Grand Lodge
Constitutio nal Boards -------·------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------·------ 408
Special Committees ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 405
Standing Committees -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 402
Committee Reports
See "Reports of Committees"
Congratula tion, Messages of ________ -------------------------------------------------------------------------·--------33
Constituen t Lodges
Alphabetical List -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 473
Numerical List ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-- 444
Constitutin g Lodges, Ceremony for ... ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 157
Constitution Month Observance-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------212
Contributi ons to Endowme nt Fund
Honor Roll ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-- 97
Testament ary Gifts ----------------------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------97
Through Lodges ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------97, 345
Controver sial Subjects, Considera tion of
Proposed Legislation ----------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------------------- 37
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ________________________________________ 270
Cornerstones, Ceremony for Laying ... ----------------------------------------------------------------------------Correspondence, Report of Committee on... -----------------------------------------------------------·--------- 146
Correspondence, Report of Committee on... ---------------------·----------------------------------------------- 222
480

549

INDEX

Page
Covina Special Fund
Audit ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------335
List of Contributions-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 389
Credentials, Report of Committee on.. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 222
Criminal Conviction ------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------197

D
Deci~~~~r~ fcYc~~!;ft~!~e~n Jurisprudence ___________________________________________________ .275, 276, 281

Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes---------------------------------------- 265
Reported by Grand Master.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 24

Dect~~~:~'.~~::
~:~;ti~-~~::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Dedication of Masonic

Hall, Ceremony for·------------------------------------------------------------------- 1
Degrees, Felon May Not Apply for
Grand Masters Recommendation-------------------------------------------------------------------------·---- 26
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes------------------------------------------ 265
De Mola y, Committee Report .... ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 217
Deposit of Lodge Funds
Decision of Grand Master.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 24

~~~~g~~}~;~~;,~~ 7'":7:d'.~'.'- :
1

~ -_

-~ ~:i

Dimits of Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts

~~~~r~~rct~~~t~~--~~--F>~ii~:y--~~<l--c;~~~~~rF>~~p~;~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .. ------------------------------------------------------------------ 278
Dimiting, Method of ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------48, 58, 2~~

g;~~:~~:~;~~~ Ps~~~dd _:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::6i 62

Dispensations Approved --------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------276
Distinguished Guests
!30 216 217

Don~~!If~~~ctr~~~;~::f~:~;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~1
Donations to Masonic Homes

· : -; :: ;·

g~:lif~~%i.~:;;~~.~i~:; ~-

7
3 0

-= :

~':: il

Dual Membership for Past Masters----------------------------------------------------------------------------46, 255

E
Edu ca ti on, Masonic- Report of Committee.. ------------------------------------------------------------------ 167
Elected Grand Lodge Officers Since Organizati on ________________________________________________________ 459
Election of Grand Lodge Officers.. -----------------------------·----------------------------------·---------------- 297
Elegibility of Felon for Degrees
Grand Masters Recommendation·----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26
Report of Committee on Poticy and General Purposes------------------------·--------------- 265
Elysian Lodge No. 418 Payment Refunded .. -------------------------·---------------------------------------57
Employment Taxes ----------------------------------·--------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- 228
Endowme nt Fund
See Masonic Homes Endowme nt Fund

550

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Entered Apprentice, Dimit of ---------·-·····----··-·········----··-········-·--···--·---·----··· ..................... 278
Eulogy for Past Grand Master Frank M. Smith ........................................................... 237
Expenditure of Lodge Funds
Grand Masters Decision............................................................................................ 25
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.................................................................... 275

F

~==~ ~~~Ie~~:d bXke~di~~-~--Y~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

in

Felon, Receiving Application of
Grand Masters Recommendation.............................................................................. 26
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........................................ 265
Fellow Craft, Dimit of ...................................................................................................... 278
Fifty Year Buttons
Ceremony for Presentation........................................................................................ 165
List of Recipients ........................................................................................................ 65
Finance, Report of Committee on...................................................................................... 285
Financial Reports

~:s~~i;o~~~~~-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~i

Endowment Fund ...................................................................................................... 319
Financing of Lodges .......................................... :................................................................. 204

~~~r!?t~r~':rnie~~-~~~-~_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::47;··254; i~~

Funds of Lodge, Expenditure of
Decision of Grand Master..................................................... .................................... 25
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .................................................................... 275
Funeral Service, Special
Resolution Presented .................................................................................................. 33
Not Adopted ................................................................................................................ 260

G
General Appendix ............................................................................................................. 401
George Washington Masonic National Memorial... ...................................................... 284
Grand Lecturer, Report of.................................................................................................. 71
Grand Lodge Installation Ceremony, Committee to Revise .......................................... 167
Grand Lodge of Italy .................................................................................................. .58, 254
Grand Lodge Officers, Elected Since Organization...................................................... 459
Grand Lodges, Foreign ...................................................................................................... 468

g~=~~ ~r8:t~e;~ ~e~~~-~~-:-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:-_-_-_-_-_:-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:-__-_-_-_-_:-_:-_-_-_-_-_::::::::::::::-.:::::::::-.:-.-.:::::::::::::: i~

Grand Secretary, Report of................................................................................................ 57
Grand Treasurer, Report of .............................................................................................. 51
Grave of Past Grand Master Hyam
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........................................ 252
Report of Finance Committee ................................................................................... 288
Resolution Presented .................................................................................................. 39
Grievances, Report of Committee on .............................................................................. 183

g~~~fs ~~~~i~~~ ::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:--=~~: ~~
2

H
Halls, Ceremony for Dedication 0£.. ................................................................................ 160
Hankerson, Asa H., Past Grand Master of Washington, Received............................ 51
Harvey, George R., Past Grand Master of Philippine Islands, Received.................. 51
History, Masonic, Publication .......................................................................................... 224
Honorable Mention, Endowment Fund............................................................................ 98
Hyam, Benjamin B.. Past Grand Master, Grave of... .................................... .39, 252, 288

551
Page

I
Information, Masonic, Committee Report.. ...................................................................... 213

~~~~:~~~~~ ~fs~!~~~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~~

Installation of Grand Officers
Committee Appointed to Revise Ceremony ............................................................ 167
Instituting New Lodges, Ceremony for.. .......................................................................... 149
Insurance (Liability)
Report of Special Committee.................................................................................... 179
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ........................................ 260
Introducing Legislation, Method of Proposal
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........................................ 44
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.................................................................... 257
Investment of Lodge Funds
Decision of Grand Master.......................................................................................... 24
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .................................................................... 276

lnve~~~~t ~r~:ra~~ms~~~~e-~T:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Investments for Constituent Lodges.......................................................................... 176, 282
Italy, Grand Lodge of........................................................... _...................................... .58, 254
Italy, Recognition of Grand Lodge
Unfinished Business .................................................................................. ................. 58
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........................................ 254

J
Jurisprudence, Report of Committee on.......................................................................... 273

L
Lassen Burial Ground, Aqulsition of.. ........................................................................ 48, 252
Laying of Cornerstones, Ceremony for ............................................................................ 144
Legislation, Method of Proposing

frr~':;!~I ~-~--~~~-~--~-~--~~-~-~~~-~-1.::::::::::-.-.-.-.-.-.:::·.-_-_-_-.-.-.:::::::::::::::::·.-.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........................................ 257
Legislation Proposed
Addition of Section 152.1 .......................................................................................... 282
Addition of Sections 178.1 and 178.2...................................................................... 278
Acquisition of Lassen Burial Ground
Proposed .............................................................................................................. 48
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes................................ 252
Report of Committee on Finance...................................................................... 288
Addition of Section 127.l

~~fA<l~pt~·<l·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Addition of Section 332Yz

42

Addition of Section 9.1

37

~~fA<l~pt·~x::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-- 271

~~fA8J~pt~·c:c::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ....... 270

Advance Notice of Proposed Legislation
Proposed .............................................................................................................. 44
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes................................ 257
Adoption of Part of Proposal............................................................................ 259
Amendment of Sections 15, 16 17 and 18
6

~ifA8J~pi;<l·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~3

552

INDEX

INDEX

Legislation Proposed-Continued
Amendment of Sections 26 and 27

Page

~~f'A<l~pt-~<l-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Amendment of Section 34

~ir.A<l~pt;;r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 21~

Amendments of Section 68 and 70

{'v~~dr~~;;-··_·_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_·:::_·_-_-_·_-_-_·:_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_·:_·_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::::·_::~:-_·_-_-_:::·.::·_::::::·_::·_-_::::·.::::::::::::::::: 2~i

Amendment of Section 86
kroposed --------------------------------····-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 56
eport of Committee on Jurisprudence·----------------------------------------------------------- 282
Amendment of Section 101

k.:%~~e~f ·c;;·;;;~i-tt~~--~-;;-·Fi;;i;~-y--~~<l-c~~~~-~"i-P~~;;;~-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence·----------------------------------------------------------- 277
Amendment of Section 121

k.:%~~e~(c;;·~~-iti~~--;;;·"j~~i~·;;~<l-~~-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 21~

Amendment of Section 133

k.:%~~e~f ·c;;-~-~iti~~--;~--Fi;;i;~-y--~~<l--c~~~~~"i":P~~-p;~-~~-------------------------------- 2t~

Report of Committee on Jurisprudence____________________________ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 276
Amendment of Section 152
kroposed f ·c;··-·----:···---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 49
eport o omm1ttee on Jurisprudence... -------------------------------------------------280, 282
Amendment of Section 163

~~f.A<l~pt~«~r::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2t~

Amendment of Section 176

k:%~~e~f c;;~-~-iti~~-;;-;;·-Fi;;ii~y----~~<l--c~~~~-~"i":P~~P--;~-~~-------------------------------- 25528

R

f C

--------------------------------

Amend~~~tt ~f S~:;:~~tt22oon Jurisprudence·----------------------------------------------------------- 277

AmeR~Ei~t~~~~i~~::~~:j:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 215
Proposed -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 45
Report of Committee on Policy and Geenral Purposes-------------------------------- 253
Rdeport off CSom;nitt e~ on Jurisprudence.. ·--------------------------------------------------------- 280
A men ment o ectlon ,

25

AmeR~Ei~ti~~~;~~~::~:~:6::;~~::~:~:i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

48 • 258
k.:%~~e~ff c;;~~i-tt;;·;;~:;·:p;;ji~y·---~~<l--c~~~~~T:P~~P--;~-~~--------------------------52
C

R

·

-----------·-----------------·-·

Amend~~~t ~f S~:;:~~tJoi°n Jurisprudence................... ---------------------------------279, 280

k.:%~~e~f -c:;~~iii~~--;;;·-P;;i"i·~-;;-~-~<l-c·~~~~;i""il~~P";;~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
2

Ame~d!:i~~\ ~ff ~~~~~t33 on Jurisprudence.·---------------·-------------------------------·---------- 275
Proposed --------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- _
43
Report of Comm~ttee on Policy and Geenral Purposes ____________ :_:::::::::::::::::: 253
Ame~d!:i~~\ ~~ ~~:;:i~~~eJ4g~J~tj5Q"udence ____________________________________________________________ 275

~ii.AJ~pi~«T:::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::·--------------------------------------------------------- 37
----------------------------------------·-·-----··--------- 259

553

Page
Legislation Proposed-Continued
Certificate of Standing
Form of Proposal._______________________________________________________________________________________________ 58
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.------------------------------- 252
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence·--------------------------·-------------------------------- 277
Dimits of Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts
Form of Proposal._______________________________________________________________________________________________ 58
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes------------------------------·· 252
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .... ----------------·--·---------------------·-------------- 278
Grave of Past Grand Master Hyam
Resolution Presented ---------------------------------------------------·--·-·---------·----------------------- 39
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes-------------------------------- 252
Report of Committee on Finance.... -------------------------··-------------------·------------------- 288
Investments for Constituent Lodges
Report of Special Committee.......... --------------------------··-----------------···----·--------·---- 176
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence·-----------------·----·-·---·------·--·------------·--·---- 282
Liability Insurance
Report of Special Committee.......... ----------------------------------- -----··--···--·------------- 176..
Report of Committee on Policy and General PurposE!s________________________________ 260
Life Membership for Veteran Members
Proposed ----------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------·---------------------- 42
Not Adopted --------------------------------------------------------·--------------------------------·-------------· 256
Life Membership Funds, Investment of
Legislation Proposed -----------------------·------------------·-----··-----·-···-----------------------------· 176
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.·-------------------·-----------------------------·-------- 283
Lodge Funds, Investment of
Legislation Proposed -----------------------------------------------·--------·-··--------------------------·--· 176
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence·-----------··---··----·-------------------------··---·---- 282
Lodge Memorial Service
Proposed -------------·-----··--------·-·----------------------------··-------···---·------------·---------·----·----·· 41
Not Adopted ----------------------------------------------------·---···----------------------·----···----------·---- 256
Meetings at Benicia Temple
Resolution Presented -------------------------------------------------·-----------·-----------------------·---- 40
Report of Committee on Policy and Gene-ral Purposes ________________________________ 253
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .. --------------------··--------···-·--·-·-----------------· 284
Prayers in Grand Lodge Ceremonies
Proposed ------------------------------------------------·-----··------------------------------------·----·-----------· 50
Referred for Report, 1952·-----·---·--···--------------------------····--··----------··---·---------------- 50
Publications
Proposed and Adopted....... ·----·--··------------------------------------·-··------------------·-·--····---- 138
Repeal of Section 210
Proposed --------··------------------------------·---------·---------·---·-------·-·--------------------------------·-- 44
Not Adopted-----------·-----------------------------------------------·-·--------··------------------·-·----------- 271
Research Lodges
Grand Masters Recommendation...... ----··----·-------------------·······-··--··----------------------- 28
Report of Special Committee.......... -------·-------------------------------·----------·--------------· 167
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes................................ 264
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .. ·-···--··---------------------··-------·--·--------------- 274
Spanish Language Lodges
Proposed ---------------------------------------------------------------------·-·····--··-------------·---------------- 50
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.... ---------·-····------------- 270
Policy Adopted ----------------------------------···----···------------------·--·--------·-----·--------------··- 270
Special Funeral Service
Proposed ------·------------------------------·-----------------·-----------------------------------------·----·------- 33
Not Adopted ---------------------------·-----------·----------------------------------------·-----------------·------ 260
Liability Jnsurance
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ________________________________________ 260
Report of Special Committee.·-------------------------------··----·------·-----------------------------···----- 179

554

555

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Life Membership for Veteran Members
Proposed ····················--·-··········--··················································································· 42
Not Adopted ······························································································-···-·········--·· 256
Life Membership Resolutions
Approval of ................................................................................................................ 276
Listing of ...................................................................................................................... 61
List of Inspectors................................................................................................................ 465
Lodge Financing ·············································-···-····························-································· 204
Lodge Memorial Service
Proposed ················--···································-································································ 41
Not Adopted -················································································-······························ 256
Lodge Funds, Deposit of
Decision of Grand Master.......................................................................................... 24
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.................................................................... 276"
Lodge Funds, Expenditure of
Decision of Grand Master.......................................................................................... 25
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .................................................................... 275
Lodge Funds, Investment of
Decision of Grand Master.......................................................................................... 24
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence ..............................................................276, 282
Report of Special Committee..................................................................................... 176
Lodges Chartered ················--·········································································--··················· 250
Lodges Constituted ·····-----·······························································-·································· 15
Lodges Instituted .......................................................................................................... 17, 60
Lodges Listed

Page
Masonic Homes of California
Auditors Report on Accounts...................................................................... __ ............ 328
Contributions to Entertainment Fund................................................................ 367, 379

~~::~e:'.~~'.l:.....:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Numerically ·······························································-··················--················--·········· 444
Lodges of Research
See Research Lodges
Los Altos Lodge No. 712
Charter Granted ·······································-················--················································ 250
Dispensation Issued .................................................................................................... 60

M
Magnolia Park Lodge No. 715
Charter Granted ··-·······················-·············-················-······························ ................. 251
Dispensation Issued ······-···················-··········································-························-····· 61
Per Capita Tax Waived ····-···············--·········································-·····················.57, 286
Marks of a Master Man (Grand Oration) .......................................................... _........ 75
Masonic Club
Berkeley - Report ...................................................................................................... 122
List of Directors.......................................................................................................... 409
Los Angeles - Report.. .............................................................................................. 128
Masonic Education, Committee Report... ......................................................................... 167
Masonic Hall, Ceremony for Dedication........................................................................ 160
Masonic History Publica~ion ............................................................................................ 224
Masonic Information Committee Report .......................................................................... 213
Masonic Homes Endowment Board Report.................................................................... 95
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
Auditors Report ··········--····························-································································· 319

~~~~~~t~~~ti~t~d··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::97; 3~~

Honor Roll ..................................................................................................................
Memorials Listed ································--································--············-·······················
Report of Endowment Board .....................................................................................
Testamentary Gifts ....................................................................................................

98
98
97
97

l{f~i!~uii~ !i i!: :: : i !li:::: i~i ;1

Masonic Publications
Legislation on ·--·····································································································--···· 138
0
1

Mas~~~o.pe~p~ A~~~~:ti~~. -R~p~~;-·;;£··::::·::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!
Master to Preside at Trial

~~ii~~~t~fnJ:~~~~:e~ ·;;~-"j~~i~-p~~d~~-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::: 2i~

Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........................................ 262
Meetings at Benicia Temple .............................................................................................. 284
Membership
7

Mem~~]:1;~:E~~~~~

--:~ ~ : :

Ji

Memorial Building
Report of Committee on Finance.............................................................................. 291
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ........................................ 272

Mem~~klr~~r~?!ee~'.~~-~~-~-~-i_:~~~:::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Memorial Service for Lodges

2 l~
Mem~~~Fd~~~~od::;~i::~~:~J::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Messages of Congratulation...... -····························--·············································-·--·----··

33

-_- ~ :- ~ij
~~~f~~~!I~~;:: ::~:~ :~~~:~~ ~ ~ ;: ~Hl

M"i~i~~f;~:·:~Zi''':

Investigations ·-------····························-······································-········--··········--·----······· 22

Research Lodges ··-····-···· ........................................................................................... 28
Special Ceremonies .................................................................................................... 21
Visitations .......... -··········----·························································································· 18
Method of Introducing Legislation
2

~!o;;!~<l r,~;~l~ti~~ ~~~~~~~'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........................................ 257

~:f:~;!m~~~:!n~e~~~-~-s-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: .. ::::~~'. ~~6

Moore, Fred W., Grand Master of Arizona
Received .................................................................................................. ................... 51
Addressed Grand Lodge................. -·············-··························--····-----····················· 130
Motion Picture of Homes

~!~~~m~:d:~~~nR;£°Hc>~~~dT~~~t~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

556

INDEX

N

Page

Necrology, Report of Committee on·------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 229
Nelson, Harold N., Grand Master of Washington
Received --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------------------------·-·· 51
Addressed Grand Lodge·--------------------·---------------------------------------------------------------------- 216
Nelson, Henry C., Grand Master of Nevada---------------------------------------------------------------- 51
New Lodge, Petition for·------------------------------------··-------------------·-·-·---------·-----··--·----------------- 277
New Lodges
Chartered -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 250
Constituted ------------------------------·-·-------------------------------·--·------------------------··-------------------- 15
Instituted --------------------------------------------------------------------------··----------------·--·--·-------------17, 60
Nesbitt, Ralph S., Grand Master of Oregon
Received -··-----------------·-----------·----------·--------------------·-----------------------------------------·---------·· 51

Noti~d~~ec~~v~;eaJ'L;~t~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::45;··253; ~~~
Notice of Proposed Legislation

Adoption of Part of Proposal__ __________________________________________________________________________________ 259
Proposal ------------------------------------··-------------------·-·---·---------------------------·····--·-·····----------··-·· 44
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ... ·------······---------------·-·····-- 257
Number of Residents at Homes-------·-···-------------------------------·-····------------······-------········--·--- 388

0
Observance of Constitution Month·------------------·----------------------·--------------------------------------- 212
Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of --------------------------------·------·------- ---------------------------------------------·-------·------- 298
Elected Since Organization·-------------·---------·-----·-------------·----------------------·------------------·- 459
Election of -----------------------------------·-------------·----------------------------·----------------------------------- 297
In Attendance -···-------------------------·-------·--··--------------------·---------------------------··----------------·
7
Installation of ----------------·--------------------·-------------·--·--·------------··---·---------------------------------- 299
Reports of ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------15, 51, 57, 71
Omnibus Report-Policy and General Purposes _____ ------------------------------------------------------ 252
Omnibus Report-Trials -----------------·---------------·-------------------·----------·------------------------·-------- 183
Oration by Grand Orator ________ ·--------·-·--------------··--------------·------------------·------·----------------------- 75

p
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 289--------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------· 288
Palm Springs Lodge No. 693 ________________ -------------------------··----------··---------·-----------------·-------- 285
Past Grand Masters
Greetings from --------------------·----------·---------------·-----------------------···--------------------·-·--·----·--- 33
Greetings to Absentees-----------·----------------------------·--------------·-·----------··------··--------·------·-- 50
In Attendance -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·
8
Past Masters, Deceased·------------------------·------------------·------------------·-------------------------------------- 240
Past Masters, Dual Membership for----------··-·--------···-------------------·-------------------------------46, 255
Pay 0f Members
Report of Committee ________ ··-------------------------------------------------------·---------------------·---------- 225
Tabulation of Payments-------------------------------------------------·--·--------------------------------------- 410
Payment for Mileage·-------------------------·----------------------------------------·-------------·------------------------ 410
Paulsen, Arthur, Grand Master

~:~~~:~h~

557

INDEX

Page

Presr!~?s1~t~~erp~~P~~~J --------------------------------------------·------------------·-··-

--------·-·--------·-· 46
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence·------------------------------------------------------------------- 275
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ________________________________________ 262
Proclamations Issued
Masonic Homes Endowment Month ________________________________________ - ------------------------------ 31

Procfa~!it~o~~~£ 8r~d~~~-t~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::ii; ~~
0

Proudfoot, Harry D., Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Oregon

Prud;~~0:1d~~rf~~}~i~~i~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!i

Public Schools Week, Report of Observance _________________ ----------·--------------------------------·-- 105
Publication of Masonic History·--------------------------------------··--------·---··----·-----·---------------------- 224
Publications
Committee Continued --··----------------·--------·---------· ----··--·--- ----·----··------------------------------- 138

~~i~~~t~t s~~~;;:;m~~~~-iii~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~~
R

il~!~~~~!ifg~ifo~~~f ~

: J!

Religious Matters,_ Coi:isideration of
Proposed Leg1slat10n -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 37
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ------------·------------------------- 270
Report of Correspondence Committee ----------------------··---------------------------------------------------- 480
Report of Committees
101

l~E;;~~.~i~i1~~~> :

l~!

i

Correspondence ·---------------------------------------·-----·-------------------- -------------------------------------- 222

~~I~'.;~~~,~~~~,: \ :~

=

\

=::

m

Insurance (Liability) for Lodges ------------------------------------·------ -------------------------------- 179

- _-:_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_:·_-_-_: -_:·_-_-_-_:-_: ·_- _:::::·_:::::~~~~~-~~:iecl

Message of -------------------------- ----------------------------·-----··----·-·--------------------------------------------· 15
Per Capita Cost, Decoto and Covina.·------··-·--------·-·---------·-··-------··--------------------------------- 388
Per Capita Tax Adopted·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- 295
Pettus Bible, Grand Masters Report on __________________ -------------------------··----------------------------- 21
Pettus, William B., Received·--------------------------------------------------·---------------------------------------- 51
Petition to Form Lodge·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 277
Physical Qualification ---------- __ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 281
Policy and General Purposes, Report of Committee on ________________________________________________ 252
Political Matters, Consideration of
Proposed Legislation ---------------------·------------------------------------------·----------------- ________ ____ 37
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes________________________________________ 270

Soecial Committee on Written Ceremonies --------------------------------------------- ------------ 139

~~~:t~~~ oTi3~;f~i-~:y-·c:i~b};;~~-~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: _ :::::::::::.:::::::: I~~

558

559

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Trustees of Los Angeles Clubhouse ......................................................................... 128
Trustees of Masonic Homes ........................................................................
82
Reports of Officers

Page
Report of ...................................................................................................................... 2~~
Smith, Frank M., P. G. M., Eulogy for ........................................................................
228

g~=~~ kf~~~;:r_ :::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::·--···--·--·--··-·

71
Grand Secretary ................................................................................ ... ::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Grand Treasurer ............................................................................................. ..
51
Representatives Mileage Payments ....................................................................... ::::.. ::::: 410
Research Lodges
Edict Adopted ............................................................................................................ 274
~=c~~~f~~~~it~!e~i:n~r~~~d~~~....................................................................... 28
R P
f
J P
e .................................................................... 274
Report o Committee on Policy and General Purposes.......................................... 264
Reser:tf5~:J f!e~~ld~i~~;:ji~~e j~~~~-~--t ..................................................................... 167
Residents of Masonic Homes
p
n s .................................................................. 336

Reso~~~~= f~ :~ ;~:~:~: ~·f:~ ~:i ~ : ~l:~:~ : _:_:_:_: _:_:_:_:_: _:_:_: : .: : : : _: _:_: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : j~j

Resolutions Presented
~cquisition of Lassen Burial Ground .................................................................... 48
Advance Notice of Proposed Legislation ............................................................ H
Addition of Section 127.1 . ...................................................................................... 37
A~~~~~e~~ ~f~i~c~i~:;~. i.6 ...i]"[;"j.................................................................... 42
• •
8 ................................................. ... .
36

J: ~--27 ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :. .: : .: : : ~~
~:=~~::~: ~i ~~~~ii~~s fl1 ~--~~:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
~:=~~::~: ~i ~~~~ii~~s

A:=~~:=~~ ~i ~=~!:~~ i~~ ::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::........... 46~~

AAmendment of Section 163 .................................... .................................................
mendment of Section 220 ..........................................................................

~!Ji~§i fIl~f~~i :i;f ; :

!

::

L favM o Past Grand Master Hyam ......................... ................ ...........................
i e embership for Veteran Members ................................................................
Lodge Memorial Service ..........................................................................................

49

li
39
42
41

E~~\is~:f~;{:~~~±+f: ; E~ : :;: - J

Spanish Language Lodges ..................................................................... :::::::::::::::::

~i

Rest~!'a~~~I o~C~l~~~i~r1!~~ ............................................................................................ 2M

~=!~~~~. t;~~tg~£· ta:~i~!:-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
s

San Simeon Lodge No. 196
Charter Reissued .............. .........................................................................................
Scholarship Fund

~{~~~~¥~~;\~·~::=:::-::=:::~:::~: ~~=:=:=:~~:~~~=:~::~ ::=::'.;di!

Study of Investm~nt Prowam ···································----································--···4·--··2s'.3' 57
Summary Explus1on, Notice for ...................................................................... 3,
, 2
89
Superintendents Reports
Covina .......................................................................................................................... 86
Decoto ......................................................................................................................... .

T
Taxation, Report of Committee on .................................................................................. 22~
Taxes, Employment and Social Security ........................................................................ 22

fTransfer
::~l=~ ~=ili~~i~i·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g
of Membership ................................................................................................. .
Tria~~~~~~~::i~~t of Presiding Officer .............................................................46, 262, ~~~

Amendment of Section 301 ......................................................................... .46, 2~j·
Amendment of Section 332 .................................................................................. • 253
Special Committee to Study ........................................................................................ 272
Trial Records
64
Listed ......................................................................................................................... .
Action on ...................................................................................................................... 1~:

f~~:~~l:rL~degeo~~-f 543··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::57; 286

Trustees of Masonic Homes
Report of ......................................................................................................................

~~

I~~~~n~~~~eor:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 298

Twelve Months Waiting Period
Decision of Grand Master ......................................................................................
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence ................................................................... .

2

~~

u
Unfinished Business
Grand Lodge Installation Ceremony ...................................................................... .. 167
Operation of Investment Program ......................................................................... . 283
Recognition of Grand Lodge of Italy ............................................................. .58, 254

v
Vault at Columbia Temple ........................................................................................58, 289
Veterans Buttons
Ceremony for Presentation ....................................................................................... . 165
List of Recipients ....................................................................................................... . 65
Voting in Annual Communication
Proposed Legislation ................................................................................................ .. 36
Report of C~mmittee on Policy & General Purposes............................................. . 263

w
335

Waiting Period for Prerequisite Bodies
Decision of Grand Master ........................................................................................ 24
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .................................................................. 276
Waiver of Jurisdiction
49

Appointed .................................................................................................................... 32

..::::::-.-.:::-.::::::::::·.".".".::::::::::-.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Wood, Kenneth 0., P. G. M. of Colorado, Received................................................ 5

57

t~:;ib-;;ti~~--·::::··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
389
Segregation,
Committee on

~eo~is~~~~t~J°'...~-~~~

28~

