The programme of the ex&,rcises of dedication and of
Grand Lodge, printed on "roughed'' paper and fastened
with blue ribbon, and the invitation of the Grand Master
to all the Grand Jurisdictions with which the Grand Lodge
of California holds fraternal relations; to the officers and

THE ~l!O§T '\~'OlRSHIP.FUJL GRAND MAS~.!l'EJR

committees of the Grand Lodge; and to a number of
distinguished brethren, reduced to page form and size, are

OF TlllIE
GRAND LODGE OF FR.EE AND ACCEPTED lUASONS OF TJEIE
JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

reproduced herewith.
FRATERNALLY REQ1.7ESTS THE HONOR OF YOUR P'RESJE"'CE
AT THE DEDICATION OJF THE MASONIC TEl'OIPLE OF

'

CALIFORNIA, VAN NESS AVENUE AND MAH.KET
l'JTREET0

SAN

FRANCISCO, ::'>IONDAYo

OCTOBER TlEillRTEEN, NINETEEN
HUNDRED AND THIRTEEN,
AT EIGHT O'CLOCK P. M.

WII,LIAM P. FILMER
Clranb 111ila11t.er

~ixtiz-foudq

,An1 utal @ommunitation
of tqe

®ranh 1fioh,ge

Jlfree anh J\..c.c:epteh cflRasons
of tqe ~urishld:ion of
CIJ:nlifornilt

~dlirntion of

cfil[asnufr

'<llrmpk

®doher 13, 14, 15, 16, 17
;Nindern ~unbreb nnb 'l!r~irteen
~an ~rnncisco

~orcbatf, @doher 13, 8 p. rn.

®rgau Jr.elulle
W.°.SAMUEL D. MAYER, Grand Organist.

JreBentatiou of ~uillliug
WILLIAM H. CROCKER, President Board of Directors

~ccepiance of ~uillling
W .".DAVID S. HIRSHBERG

c!9ellicatintt
M.". w : . WILLIAM P. FILMER AND OFFICERS OF GRAND LoDGE
(Escort to Grand Master, E . C. William C. Hassler and the Drill Corps of
California Commandery No. 1, K . T .)

cffel{uBic
"Awake Up My Glory"

Iliffe

Choir of California Lodge No.
CARL EDWIN ANDERSON, first tenor
RoBERT E. SAXE, second tenor
Cr,ARENCE H. OLIVER, first bass
CHARLES F. RoBJNSoN, second bass

®ration
SAMUEL M. SHORTRIDGE

cffei{uBic
"Rejoice All .Ye People"

N oella

CHOIR

~en eMdintt
EDwrn: A. SHERMAN, Grand Chaplain

GRAND ORGANIST
Ceremonies open to members of Grand Lodge and Invited guests only.
During the dedicatory exercises, Past Grand Master Dana R . Weller
will present to Grand Lodge the silver trowel used by him at the laying of
the cornerstone of the Temple. Also. Fidelity Lodge No. 120 wlll present
to the Temple Association a thirty-six foot American Flag, Brother Jacob
Nieto acting as spokesman.

Jlrogramme of tqe ~istoric
~asonic Jlla~

"~n ~igqteentq ~enturt! Ifio~ge".
'©uesba~,

®dober 14tq

10 o'cLOCK A. M.-Opening ceremonies of Grand Lodge.
by ticket to members of Grand Lodge only).
8 o'cLOCK P. M.-"An Eighteenth Century Lodge."
fornia Lodge No. 1. Cast on next page.)

<lialifornia ~ob.se ~n. 1, ~· & ~- c:fRll.

(Admission

'Clruesha:I;! efrenin,g, @doher 14, 1913

(Presented by CaliCAST OF CHARACTERS

-0--

~ebnesba!;?,

®dober 15tq

10 o'C.LOCK A. M.-Regular business.
2 o'cLOCK P. M.-Memorial services in, honor of the late brethren, Past
Grand Master Henry Sayre Orme, Grand Bible Bearer William
Schuyler Moses, and Grand Treasurer Edward Coleman. Addresses by Past Grand Masters James A. Foshay, Chas. L. Patton
and Oscar Lawler.
8 o'cwcK P. M.-General informal reception to all Masons and the adult
members of their families. The entire building will be thrown
open for inspection until 11 o'clock p. m. Music by Islam Temple
Band.
--Cl-

'©qursba~,

®dober 1.6tq

10 o'cLOCK A. M.-Regular business.
2 o'cLOCK P. M.-Annual Oration, Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Grand Orator.
8 o'cLOCK P. M.-Third degree will be exemplified by the Grand Master
and Officers of the Grand Lodge, under the auspices of Doric
Lodge No. 216.
--0--

~ribajz,

®dober 17tq

In the order of their appearance
Sir Roger Stutter (the youngest entered apprentice) ....Edgar M. Cameron
Thomas Keepguest (a Stuart partisan at heart) ............ Walter P. Johnson
Nathaniel Chepeman (Boxmaster and lover of good ale) ..Edward E. Conn
Andrew Oldmixon (Master of the Lodge) ........................Jesse M. Whited
Accepted Quickly (a Credulous Mortal) ..........................- ........Cecil C. Cline
Hugh Winelove
(
~ Samuel B. Stevenson
R?bert Sweetmouth , (Members of the Lodge)
Carl E. Anderson.
Simon Oxenherde \
William M. Furbush
Diccon Cocks head (Landlord of the "Blue Lion") .._........H enrv A. Cline
William Thickpennie (The Candidate) ........................ Geqrge M. Van Burm
Tapster of the "Thatched House Tavern" ...............................John Hoffman
Richard Tapiser (Secretary of the Lodge) ....................... Harry L. Dewey
Ralph Ryecroft (The Junior Warden) ..................................Hugh McBirney
Philip Bre11dmonger
Harvey A. Marvin
John Pettyclerk
(.if embers of the Lodge)··--- Albert A. Cummings
Roger Dobbins
Robert G. Green
Anthony Applegarth (Tyler of the Lodge) ........................ George P. Adams
Brian Bracegirdle (A Visiting Brother) .................... ·-···---~·-·······Carl Neuer
John Theophilus Desaguliers (Deputy Grand Master) ....!ohn W uersching
Members of the Lodge, Watchmen~ Tapsters, etc.

l

t

SYNOPSIS

Act I

The Brothers Assembling in the Old Tavern Room.

ACT II The Ledge at Work.
ACT III The Lodge at Refreshment.
SCENE.: Room in the "Thatched House Tavern."
TIME : London, England, .1723, A. D.

10 o'cLOCK A. M.-Regular business, including , election and installation
of officers.

--0--

.8 o'cLOCK P. M.-La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17 will exemplify the
first degree.

Pr<?duced under· the direction of
EDGAR M. CAMERON and JESSE M. WHITED

®fficers

2fillasouic Wemple J\ssociatiou
of <1Ialifornia

of <lialifornia

WILLIAM H . CROCKER, President
WILLIAM P . FILMER, Vice- President

WILLIAM P. FILMER

Grand Master

JoHN D . MURPHEY

Deputy Grand Master

BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE

Senior Grand Warden

ALBERT G. BURNETT

J unior Grand Warden

EDWARD PEABODY, Secretary

FRED W. VAN SrcKLEN

GEORGE M . PERINE

G r and Treasur er

J oHN WHrCHER

CHAS. ScHLESSINGER

JOHN WHJCHER

Grand Secretary

Lours M uLLER

CHAS. A. ADAMS

THOMAS J. BAKER

Grand Lecturer

CHAS. L. p ATTON

J osEPH D. ABRAM~

EDWIN A . SHERMAN

Grand Chaplain

GruESEPPE C. SALA

J OHN P. FRASER

W. RHODES HERVJ\Y

Grand Orator

RODERIC G. GUYETT

HENRY AscROFT

HARRY S . Jomiso:-

Assistant Grand

SAM UEL G. KENT

ROBERT E. ALLAN

WrLLIAM KETTNER

Grand Marshal

JOSHUA D. TUCKER

FRED. W . G. MoEBus

JOHN ToNNINGSEN

G r and Standard Bear er

LEo V . YouNGWORTH

Grand Sword Bearer

O LIN L. BERRY .

LEO v. YOUNGWORTH

SAMUEL E. BURKE

Grand Bible Bearer

JOHN D. MURPHEY

RODOLPH

JOHN

c. COLEMAN

Secretary

LEVI

Senior Grand Deacon

FRED B. Woon

Junior Grand Deacon

ROLAND E. HARTLEY

Senior Grand Steward

BENJAMIN B. TUTTLE

Junior Grand Steward

BEN

w. M:EEK

--0-

<liommittee of l\rrangements
THEODORE

J. MILLIKEN

SAMUEL D. MAYER
GEORGE P . ADAMS

for ~eMcation

G r and Pursuivant
Grand Organist
G r a nd Tyle r

CHARLES L. p ATTON

GEORGE M . PERINE
J o HN WHICHER

~.er.epiion Qlommitt.e.e
for Oieneral ~ereption, ~ebne5bal,l ~flening
©ctnher l5t~, at 8 n'dnck

EDWIN C. YouNG, California No. 1
PIERRE POMMIER, La Parfaite Union No. 17
ARTHUR H. HALLORAN, Occidental No. 22
PAUL R. BJICK, Golden Gate No. 30
DANIEL B. RICHARDS, Mount Moriah No. 44
ABRAHAM ]AcoBs, Fidelity No. 120
]ACOB WEILER, Hermann No. 127
HERMAN WERTSCH, Pacific No. 136
HuGH McBIRNEY, Crockett No. 139
WILLIAM S. HAMILTON1 Oriental No. 144
PHINEAS F . FERGUSON, Excelsior No. 166
]oHN HAZLETT, Mission No. 169
HERMAN E. RAHLMAN, South San Francisco No. 212
ALBERT A. Ros ENS HINE, Doric No. 216
EMIL V. LoNIGO, Speranza Italiana No. 219
HERMANN \V. NoE'fHIG, King Solomon's No. 260
]oHN W . GALE, Starr King N o. 344
CLAREN·CE M. CHENEY, Presidio No. 354
ARTHUR S. YouNG, San Francisco No. 360
HENRY C. KLEVESAHL, Amity No. 370
JosEPH E. LEVIN, Jewel No. 374
LuTHER SANBORN, Richmond No. 375
ANDREW L. JOHNSTON, Parnassus No. 388
PER E. PEARSON, Balder No. 393
]AMES D. RALPH, Fairmount U . I?·
RICHARD S. ALLEN, Inspector
DouGLASS B. CRANE, Insi}edfo?;
WILLIAM A. S~:J(RMAN, Inspector
RODERICK G. GuYETT, Inspector
OREL M. GoLDARACENA, Inspector (French):
Louis MuLLEK,.:·iinspector (German)
GIOVANNI ScALMANINI, Inspector (Italian)

\VILLIAM H. CROCKER
Jrtsibtnt .nf tilt !Uasnnir llltmplt Assnriattnn

GRAND LODGE
OF

1J1rrr nu~ l\rrrptr~ ilasnus
OF 'l'H.;

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

SPECI AL COMM UN ICATION
OCTOBER 13, A. D .. 1913

31 ntroburtton-l;t.etoriral

·,

The first pretentious edifice erected in the City of San
Francisco for the special uses of Masonry was begun in
the year 1860, at the corner of Post and Montgomery
streets, the corner stone being laid on Monday, the 25th
day of June-the day following the Anniversary of St.
John Baptist. That building was first occupied by Grand
Lodge at its fourteenth annual communication, commencing Tuesday, the 12th day of May, 1863. It was finished
in 1870, and was imposing to a degree beyond its time.
In his address to Grand Lodge. on the occasion of first
occupying it, Grand Master William C. Belcher said:
"This is the finest and most perfect building upon the
Pacific Coast, and when finished it will be the most
beautiful, if not the most expensive Masonic Temple in
America." It was built during the most trying years
of the civil war, and cost in the neighborhood of $250,000.
The membership in the State in 1863 was six thousand.
The ground space occupied was seventy-five feet on
Montgomery street and one hundred and sixty feet on
(15)

16

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

Post street. To top of balustrade it measured seventy
nine feet, and to top of tower, one hundred and eightynine feet. This splendid building was the Home of
Masons and Masonry continuously until the eighteenth
day of April, 1906, when it was abandoned by order of the
military authorities, and on the .nineteenth of April it
was destroyed by fire.
After some forty years of occupancy, the great
growth of the city and state and the fraternity demanded
that larger and better quarters should be secured, and
on the 12th of October, 1904, Past Grap.cl Maste~ Orrin
S. Henderson introduced a resolution relative to the
disposition ·by the Grand Lodge of its stock in the corpo-:ration owning the Masoni\: Temple, which resolution was
referred to the Finance Committee. On the 14th of October of that year, Past Gdnd Master Oscar Lawler, for
the Finance Committee, reported that the "demand for
the acquisition of quarters sufficiently commod\ous to meet
the requirements is imperative," and further reporting
that a committee of three be appointed to confer and act
with other ·bodies and committees, with the view of
acquiring a site for th,e erection of a new Masonic Temple
in San Francisco. It was also resolved, "that the Grand
Master be empowered to sell all stock of the Masonic Hall
Association owned by Grand Lodge."
At the annual communication of 1905, Brother Reuben
H. Lloyd, chairman of the special committee appointed
to confer with other bodies holding stock in the Temple,
reported, recommending that the old building be razed
and a new and larger structure be erected on the same
site. The matter was rereferred to the same special committee, to report in 1906. Meantime the great fire of
April, 1906, destroyed the building, and Grand Master
Motley H. Flint reported that he had called into consultation as many of the Past Grand Masters and elective
officers as could be secured to talk over the situation,
." and after thorough and exhaustive discussion, it was
decided by more than a majority present that it was for

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

17

the best interests of the G
d
at Post and Mont omer
ran Lodge that the property
than $750 000" ;,h Gy streets be sold at a price not Jess
'
·
e
rand Lodge at th t'
5881 shares of the stock out of a total of 25e~m~ owned
o th 1
,
s ares.
n
e 0th of October 1906 p t G
Charles L. Patton in heh If' f h'
as . rand Master
ciation, reported that "aft a o . t. e Masonic Hall Assoer receiving the conse t f
. n o more
t h an two-thirds of the stockhold
tract with Rudolph s·
k l
e~s, entered into a. conthe northwest corner p:;cp~:~ ~~~mir to him the lot on
for the sum of $750000" H f
ontgomery streets,
recei t of h
: ·
e urther reported that on
. .p
t e money it was the intention of the Hall A
ci~t10n to obtain an order of court
. .
s~otn bution of all th f d
permitting the disdisincorporate
i:e :~s s amongt dthe Stockholders, and to
.
o repor e that it wa th
pressed desire of the Masonic bodies h Id'
s
e exa new hall association, and requested ~ha~ng stock ~o form
appointed with power to act in all
tt
a committee be
the consumma · ·
f h
ma ers connected with
erection of a n:i:n T:mtpl: ~~I~ of ~he T:~1ple site and. the
of nine was that day appointea; rancisco. A tomrtuttee
P At the motnihg session of Ftiday, October 12 1906
~t. stt Grand Master Henderson, from the special' com-'
mi ee on new Temple
t d .
•
th
.. .
' repor e mter aha that "we th· k
e new orgamzatton should be under th
m.
Grand Body
d h
e control of this
Grand L d , an d t e stock be owned exclusively by the
fornia." o ge an other Masonic organizations of CaliOctober 9, 1907, Brother Reuben H Lt
that the special committee h d t
d
.
oyd. reported
the name of "M
.
a orm~ a corporat10n under
accompanying h~somc Tem~Ie Association of California"
.
is report with a copy 0 f th
. I
'
incorporation th
·
.
e artJ.c es of
f
.. ,
e. cap.ita1 stock bemg fixed at $1 500
o par value oi $10 each G · d L
'
' 000
ih this, and the sum of 225
odg~ fully toncutred
for the purchase of stock. '
was or ered to be used

$ J;:;

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE
DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

18

In his address to Grand Lodge October 13, 1908,
Grand Master George M. Perine said: "The committee
appointed to select and purchase a site for a new Masonic
Temple in the City of San Francisco, after carefully considering the many pieces of property offered to them ,
unanimously centered upon the property situated on the
west side of Van Ness avenue, between Oak street and
Hickory avenue, having a frontage of 120 feet on Van
Ness · avenue by a uniform depth of 109 feet 9 inches."
Subsequently, in 1909, an additional lot was purchased,
immediately adjoining the original pur.chase, and having
a frontage of 47 feet 9 inches on Oak street by a depth
of 120 feet to Hickory avenue, with an adrlitional frontage
of tl feet on Hickory avenue by a depth of 40 feet. Grand
Lodge approved the report and the purcha,e.
In October, 1908, Brother Benjamin F. Bledsoe introduced the following: "Resolved, that this Grand Lodge
hereby pledges its unstinted aid and influence, and such
financial assistance as its available reso~rces will permit,
to the end that there may be erected on the site selected
a permahent abiding place for the Grand Bodies of this
jurisdiction, adequate to the needs of the craft in our
State and worthy of the name and standing of Masonry in
California." This was referred to the Committee on
Finance, which committee cordially indorsed the sentiments, and Grand Lodge adopted the resolution.
Thus was the preliminary work of the Temple done.
The corner stone was laid October 11 , 1911, and it was
dedicated in ancient form Monday evening, October 13,
1913, the full ceremony thereof following:

JSiblital
And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding
much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea
shore.
And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children
of the east country, and all the wisdom of Egypt.

19

F or he was wiser than all men. h
Heman, and Chalcol and D .·d
h ' t an Ethan the Ezrahite, and
·
'
ai a, t e sons of M h l
·
was m all nations round about.
a o : and his fame
And Hiram king of Tyre sent h"is servants unto Soloin
f
on . or
he had h ear d that they had anointed him k "
father: for Hiram was ever a l
f D '.ng in the room of his
over o
avid
And Solomon sent t o Hiram, saymg,
.
·
Thou knowest how that D "d
house unto the name of the L adv1h. mGy father could not build an
b
h"
or
is od for the
h"
a out 1m on every side
fl th
wars w 1ch were
of his feet.
' un 1
e Lord put them under the soles
But now the Lord my God h th .
so that there is neither ad
a
g1_ven me rest on every side,
versary nor evil occurrent '
And, behold, I propose to build
.
.
Lord my God as the L d
k an house unto the name of the
T
'
or spa e unto D "d
hy son, whom I will set upon th th
a~i my father, saying,
build an house unto my name.
Y rone m thy room, he shall
Now therefore command thou that th
of Lebanon ; and my servants shall b
~y hew me cedar trees out
thee will I give hire for th ser e with th~ servants: and unto
shalt appoint : for. thou k y
vants accordmg to all that thou
nowest that there ·
that can skill to hew timb
lik
IS not among us any
And .
er
e unto the Sidonians.
. it came to pass, when Hiram heard h
that he rejoiced greatly and
"d Bl
t e words of Solomon
which hath given unto n'a "d sa1.'
essed be t he Lord this day'
v1 a wise son over th"ts great people
'
And H"
.
tram sent to Solomon, sa in
I h
.
.
thmgs which thou sentest t
f
y g,
ave considered the
.
o me or . and I will d
11
concermng timber of cedar
d
·.
.
o a thy desire
M
' an concernmg timber of fir
f
·
Y servants shall bring them d
sea: and I will convey th
b
. own rom Lebanon unto the
shall appoint me and wt.ellm y seahm fl.oats unto the place that thou
cause t em to b d" h
'
1 ou shalt receive them . and th
h
e tsc arged there, and
h• •
"
OU S a 11 ace
!" h
omp ts my desire, in
g1vmg food for my household.
:a

11

~o desire.
Hi:am gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees. according to
his

And Solomon gave Hiram t
for food to hi• househ ld
d wenty thousand measures of wheat
o ' an twenty measures of pure ·1
,
·gave S o Iomon to Hiram year bY year.
01 : thus
And the Lord gave Solomon wisdom
there was peace between H"
d
' as he promised him: and
tram an Solomon ·
d h
:a eague together.
' an t ey two made
l

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

And kil\g Solomon raised a 1evy out of all Israel ; and the levy
was thirty tbousand men.
And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month by courses ;
a month they were in Lebanon, and two months at home: and
Adoniram was over the levy.
And Solomon had threescore and ten thousand that bare burdens, and fourscore thousand hewers in the mountains.
Beside the chief of Solomon's officers which were over the
work, three thousand and three hundred, which ruled over the
people that wrought in the work.
And the king commanded, and they brought great stones, costly
stones, and hewed stones, to lay the foundation of the house.
And Solomon's builders- and Hiram's builders did hew them,
and the stonesquarers; so they prepared timber and stones to build
the house.

. When .h~aven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have
smned against thee; if they pray toward this place and confess thy
name, and tum from their sin, when thou afflictest 'them:
Then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants
and of thy people Israel, that thou teach them the good way wherei~
they should walk, and give rain upon thy land, which thou hast given
to thy people for an inheritance.

And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth year after
the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the
fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month Zif, which
is the second month, that he began to build the house of the Lord:
And the word of the Lord came to Solomon, saying,
Concerning this house which thou art in building, if thou wilt
walk in my statutes, and execute my judgments, and keep all my
commandments to walk in them ; then will I pe:rfonn my word with
thee, which I spake unto David, thy father:
And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel.
So Solomon built the house, and finished it.
And King Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre.
He was a widow's son of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father
was a man of Tyre, a worker in brass; and he was filled with
wisdom, and understanding, and cunning to work all works in brass.
And he came to King Solomon, and wrought all his work.
Then spake Solomon, The Lord said that he .would dwell in the
thick darkness.
And Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence
of all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward
heaven:
But will God indeed dwell on the easth? behold, the heaven
and heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less this
house that I have builded?

21

. If there be in. the land famine, if there be pestilence, blasting,

~mldew, locust, or 1f there be caterpillar; if their enemy besiege them
m the land of their cities; whatsoever plague, whatsoever sickness
there be:

T~en hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and do,
and give to every man according to his ways, whose heart thou
kn.ow est; (for thou·, even thou only, knowest the hearts of all the
children of men;)
~nd it was so, that when Solomon had made an end of praying
all this prayer and supplication unto the Lord, he arose from before
the altar of the Lord, from kneeling on his knees with his hands
spread up to heaven.
And it came to pass, when Solomon had finished the building of
the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all Solomon's desire
which he was pleased to do.
That the Lord appeared to goJomon the second time as he had
appeared unto him at Gibeon.
'
".-nd. the Lord said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy
supphcatJ~n, that thou hast made before me : I have hallowed this
house, which_ thou hast built, to put my name there for ever; and mine
eyes and mme heart shall be t here perpetually.

111rhirattnn nf tqr Wtmplt
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the •] urisdiction of California was
specially convened in the "White Room" of the new
Temple, in t he Ci°ty of San Francisco, on Monday, October 13th, A. L. 5913, A. D. 1913, at eight o'clock p. m.
There were present the following:
GRAND OFFICERS.
M.'. W.' . WILLIAM P. FILMER..........................Grand Master
R.'. W.'. ]OHN D. MuRPHEY...... ~.....................Deputy Grand Master
R.' . W.'. BENJAMIN F. BLEDSO!i...................... Senior Grand Warden
R.'. w:.·ALBERT G. BURNETT..........................Junior Gr and Warden

V. ·. W. •. ]OHN WaicHn...................................Grand Secretary
V.'. W.'. THOMAS

J. BAKER............................Grand Lecturer

V. ·. R. ·. EDWIN A. SHERMAN...........................Grand Chaplain
W. ·. W. RHODES HERVEY............................Grand Orator
W.'. HARRY S. ]OHNSON........................... Assistant Gr and Secretary
W.'. WILLIAM Klo:TTNtR..............................Grand Marshal
W.' . JosHUA D. TucKER............'................Grand Standard Bearer
W.'. LEo V. YoUNGWORTH ........................Grand Sword Bearer
w.·. SAMUEL E. BURKE............................Grand Bible Bearer
w. ·. BEN LEVI................................................Senior Grand Deacon
w. ·.FRED B. Woon......................................Junior Grand Deacon
W. ·. ROLAND E. HARTLEY..........................Senior Grand Steward
W.'. BENJAMIN B. TuTTu:........................]unior Grand Steward
W.'. THEODORE]. Mn.LIKEN......................Grand Pursuivant
W.'. SAMUEL D: MAYJ:;R.........................._Grand Organist
W . •. GEORGE P. ADAMS ................................Grand Tyler
(23)

MAIN ENTRANCE TO THE TEMPLE

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

2-1

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

PAST GRAND OFFICERS.
M.". w:. SAMUEL C. DENSoN.:::.... ·-~·············.Pa~t Grand Master

w:. WILLIAM T. LtrCAS•........................._Past Grand Master
M.". w:. THOMAS FLIN'l'.................................!._Past Grand Master
M.".

M.'. w:. FRANK M. ANGELI,OT'ft._______. ______ Pa~i Grand Master

M:. W:. CHARLES L. P A'l'TON-----····-···..P3$t Grand Master
M.". w:. ]AMES A. FosHAY..............................Past Grand Master
M.". w:. ORRIN S. HENDERSON........................Past Grand Master
M.'. w:. CHARLES W . NuTT1N1; ...... ----~·-····-Past Grand Master
M.". w:. EDWARD H. HAR'l'................................Past Grand Master
M. ·. W. ·. GEORGE M. Pi;:iuNIC------------··----Yast Grand Master
M.". w:. DANA R. Wl'tU.U---························-·..Past Grand Master
M.". w:. ALONZO J. MONROE......:\...._. ............Past Grand Master
R.". w:. FR!'.DERICK F. B.uss..................--.~-P•Ht Junior Grand Warden
R.". w:.CRAllLES E. Ml'l'CHJ!LL.................__Past Junior Gnnr.' \Vardc·t

v:. w:. W1LLIAM H. EDWARDS....................-Past Grand Lecturer
The Grand Master filled the vacant place by the appointment of

w.·. RALPH ~-----------············-·-Grand Treasurer
There was also present M.". W:. William M. David, Grand Master
of Nevada.

And the Grand Lodge was opened m due form, with
prayer by the Grand Chapfain.
The Grand Master announced that the Grand Lodge
had been convened for the purpose of dedicating the
Masonic Temple, erected by the Masonic Temple Association of California, pursuant to an invitation of that Association, and ordered that the Grand Lodge be called off
for that purpose. Thereupon, under the direction of the
Grand Marshal, a procession was formed as follows:

E~O!lT.

Her~ld, Brother Cecil C. Cline.
The Grand Marshal
George M. Pe,rine
E bl
m em
Alonzo J. Monroe,
P ast G rand Master ·
·
Past Grand Master,·
representing
F rank M. Angellotti'
Lodge
w·1r
T
Past Grand Master. '
_ p 1 Iam · Lucas,
J
A F
'
ast Grand Master
a:;;:_s . o~hay, Past Grand Master, bearing a light .
omas Flmt, Past Grand Master, bearing a light. .
Charles L. Patton, Past Grand Master, bearing a light.
Grand Sword .Bearer.
Grand Master, with gavel.
De~uty Grand Master, bearing vessel with corn.
Sen10_r Grand Warden, bearing vessel with wine.
Jumor Grand Warden, bearing vessel with oil
Grand Treasurer.
·
Grand Secretary.
Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master
The Architect of the Temple, bearing worki~g tools
Brother Samuel M. Shartridge.
·
Past Master Jacob Nieto.
Brother J oseph D. Redding.
Past Master David S. Hirshberg.
Grand Lecturer.
Grand Chaplain.
Grand Orator.
Assistant Grand Secretary.
Grand Standard Bearer.
Gra~d Bible Bearer, bearing Tuscan column.
Se~ror Grand Deacon, bearing Doric column.
I ~mor Grand Deacon, bearing Ionic column.
Sen~r Grand Steward, bearing Co rinthian column.
Jumor Grand Steward, bearing Composite colunm
Grand Purs.uivant.
Grand Tyler.
. Th~ escort was composed of E Sir w·zr
CaltfornJa Commandery NQ. 1 1:: T. and th '{mu C.. Hassler, Commander of
corps:
· '
· ''
e o owing members of the drill
Samuel A. Eva Gener !'• .
H
.
Clarke, D. E. F E~ston J a "".HO ;t h arrw Maundrell, Captain General. s A
Sanford, Wm. McArthur: M. B. Dolla~r, E .CRH Roussel, H. L. Dew~y,'
L.'
Wagner, E. C. W:enle, Jno. G. Wetmo~e .R .L ueter, J. H . W . Hus~g, E. l..
if:Jeorn, G. A. Zimmerman, H. A. Marvin E HACdffson,LL.
D.
Weinand,
E.
e, L. A. Kern, R W Neal A W y' ·N · 0 ee, · Nonnenman R L
The Bible used on ti,
• : . an ess,. Ge?. Boxton, B. c. Flocton.
of Gr~nd Lodge, was picked e u;c~'::i~he ~~.!~te . dedication,. and at the opening
~he STrrhas, and later presented to Connectic~~ f!eJadaNn 1849, brought over
now e ama No. 3) and was plac d
h
l o ge
o. 7 5 at . Sacramento
~and hLodge in J 850.' P~st Master R~be~f°Osc~: tar at tfheT organization of the
re t e book to San FrancisC<> f,
thi
. ravens o
ehama Lodge No 3
and has been a Mason for more th;:;;- sixt; ~~~=~on. He is now 86 years o.ld,

B

w:

C

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

27

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

26

The procession being thus formed,. it marched to the
Grand Lodge room, which was occupied ~y ~ome eleven
hundred members of the Grand Lodge and mvit~d Masons.
The escort halted at the steps of the platform m the east,
faced inward, and crossed swords while the Grand Master
and officers were passing.
The Herald on arriving at the door of the Hall, played
a fanfare and 'the Grand Marshal announced "The Mos~
Worshipful Grand Master and officers of the Gran
Lodge."
.
· smg
· 1e fil e in the order above
The procession
entere d m
noted and upon arriving at the center space where the
Embl~m was to be placed, halted, and the Emblem was
placed in proper position. 'the three lights were placed
in a triangular form at the south of the Emblem,. and the
vessels of corn, wine and oil were placed u?on it. The
f
the five orders of architecture were
columns represen mg
.
bl
d
laced on a table immediately west of the E~ ei;:i an
~ast of the altar. The Grand Master and officers then
took seats on the stage.
All during the mar.ch into the hall and until the Grand
Master was seated, the Grand Organist played a march.
p t Master Jacob Nieto, in behalf of Fidelity Lodge
as
h M
· Temple AssoNo. 120, then presented to t e
as?mc
.
ciatiori a beautiful thirty-six foot American flag, m the fol

lowing words:
•
M · ·

w . GRAND MAS'l'1'R AND BR£'l'HREN:

· ·
k
t the
An honorable duty has been assigned me as the first s?ea er a h
.
.
m le one to which I address myself with somew at
openmg of this Te p '.d .
the sacredness of the service I am about
of embarrassment, cons1 ermg
'
to render.
nd every people has evolved for itself some great
.
Every nat ion a
f ·
· t
thus
.
. . h
d d as the object and goal o its ex1s ence,

~~~=~l~~:~~ ':or ai~s:~f:r c:rtain standard of n.ational exist:~c~h:n!oc:i~~

~:~s:::n:~s;!~r:f:r~:i~i~:Y :~o:e~~ :~~ea~~~:e t:;:~ll fittingly sym-

bolize their ideal, and use it as a banner or a standard or a coat of
arms, which directs them in all their movements, adorns their public
buiidings, is alluded to by their teachers and orators as a treasure to
be cherished; is loved, admired and respected, nay, even revered, by the
members of its own communities and the citizens and subjects of all
other nations whithersoever dispersed around the globe.
The Israelites unfurled their standard to the world, and their
ideal was "Righteousness," represented, according to tradition, by a
white hand on a blue field, indicating that this, the greatest of ideals"Righteousness"-was within the power of mankind to attain. They
sought no empire, embarked on no wars of conquest, did not design
g.feat commercial ventures, but were insistent and persistent in forcing
upon the world through peaceful means the ideal of "Righteousness."
Rome, whatever other sentiments may be ascribed to her as contributory to the master thought, "Power" seems to have been her ideal, for
law, order, organization and all the other factors were but contributory
to the attainment and wielding of the power of master. To accomplish
this, she necessarily had to prey upon other peoples, fittingly representing this ideal with the eagle, but she, when satiated, died of corruption.
All nations of modern times have their ideals which they emblazon
upon their coat of arms, unfurl to the world and demand respect for it,
just as Israel demanded respect and reverence for her ideal, and Rome
compelled it for herself.
And so we, in common with the rest of the world, have our banner, which is a symbol of our American ideal, a belief that all our citizens here and everywhere enjoy liberty and peace under the protecting
. folds of that banner. They cherish it as the noblest and highest thought
of modern man, and enjoy a sense of security and safety while protected by it. All the world greets our banner with reverence and respect. Under this banner, too, we in the character of Masons may meet
freely and uninterruptedly to conduct all our affairs, and the followers
of a church, or any church, or no church, may bind themselves together
under its folds, for we play no tricky game, we design no treasonable
plots. The game we play is the game of "Equality," and the stakt:s we
play for, "Honor."
We labor for our country, our God and our fellow man, and endeavor to have all our ways directed by righteousness. These are most
fittingly represented by the equal and parallel bars or 5tripes on our
flag, which I now present in the name of Fidelity Lodge No. 120, Free
and Accepted Masons, to the Masonic Temple Association, with the request that it float over this building on all public occasions, and during
all important Masonic gatherings.
'

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

28

At the rondusion of Brother Nieto's remarks, Past
Master Joseph D. Abrams of Fidelity Lodge, cut the cord
which had held the flag from view in the flies of the stage,
and as it gracefully unfolded, the brethren beheld it with
the utmost enthusiasm, and with one accord rose to their
feet and joined with the choir in singing the "Star
Spangled Banner."
Past Grand Master George M. Perine, for the Temple
Association, accepted the banner in the following eloquent
remarks:
M.'. W.'. GRAND MAsTtR, AND BROTHER Nn:ro:

While I am looking at that beautiful flag, Fidelity's gift to the
Masonic Temple Association, I will ask my brethren to do the same.
A more fitting gift could not be selected. Our American Flag to
every American Mason is synonymous of our Masonic Fraternityour flag that the sun never sets on; our fraternal order that the sun
never sets on.
The tournament of the Nations has been swift; that flag first
waved over thirteen states in the wilderness; the American Republic
today has swept from ocean to ocean, it has pushed the light of liberty
to the far ice bounds of Alaska, with a leap it has carried the dawn of
a new day to the Hawaiian Islands and the Philippines; it has exttended
its arms to struggling Cuba and Porto Rico as the champion of Freedom, until today our country. holds the commercial supremacy of the
world, with wealth estimated at more than one trillion dollars, increasing at the rate of over twelve millions a day. That flag floats
over the richest nation of the earth, in men and gold.
I repeat, a more fitting gift could not be given to this Masonic
Fraternity. In the dim past, when our continent was yet untrod by
civilized man, our beloved Institution of Free Masonry lived and
thrived. May we not then draw an inference of the spiritual and
immortal essence of our beloved Masonry from the stability of this
duration-our Institution, of su'ch exceeding antiquity, naturally has seen
many great nations and empires of this earth rise to their zenith and
then fall into oblivion. The great stoics and warriors 0£ that age,
their very names, have been lost to history ; the marble that was
carved with such care to immortalize them has melted away as if they
had been statues of ice.
Despite all this, Masonry has come down to us laden with the
fragrance of its beautiful truths, which unceasingly tell of its undiminished strength and perpetuity-its wisdom, power and might, a

29

::~~~a~~nb:thitsh lo!ty and ennobling principles which cements the
er oo -our creed of Universal Brotherh d
.
down to us all unimpaired. This fraternit d .
oo commg
to it the strongest and best of men in th y, _ur;ng all ages,. has drawn
times its followers have been advanced a~de~;s~~g commumty. At all
as prophecies of the next
ig eous men. Men walk
·
age. Step by step we have scaled this
rnOystenous ladder;. our steps are actions-our results truth and p
urf greatf Masomc Body is t ru1Y conservative-no
ower.
.
• set party policy
or orm o government-what we d d
d .
.
and
religious liberty. Masonry, like 01~ ~l::n k1s stable governme~t
1

r~ht n::t t~~ :i~~~ ~~:0~~

hel~mate

t_o all who seek the truth, the
anmversanes recall no memories of war or bl d
.
.
tears! are mingled with its festivities; their
;isno
gent e pathway of peace L t
M
a ong
e
his high privilege, in the~e e:rn:::~ays a~~nb rea!ize his r~sponsibility,
in our working out the reat d .
'
eanng some umble part
the uplifting of mankind g I th"es1gns th~t look to the purification,
IS connection I may be pardoned in
quoting a few lines :
.
n

o~p~r~~1~e

lorphat~s'

"Let pridish priests do battle with creeds
The Church is mine that does most Godlike deeds."
In the early days of our Puritan fathers, Masonic altars
erected. It were a needless task to tell how with th h' t . were
as starting p · t
·
'
e is one spots
.
om s, a contment was reclaimed and peo I d F

~~~a~~ict::a!~~;:r:h1~~:;:a0~st~: ~~:~~aet~~n ~~7te~ ih: irea;ov~ll!~:

to
00
theh Institution
of
Free
Masonry
ha
·
d
to say with
that
I h
s prove a potentmuc
co-worker
:~it~~e th ouse and,dchurch in the wonderful achievements that cone warp an woof of our Nation?
This glorio~s Flag and Masonic teachings must be inspirations and
be, . with the ro1ling years ' better men . The sum o f h'uman
hwe must
.
. resp Ien d ent with
.
Th will be · increased. Truly' the futur e is
h appmess
o~e.
at beautiful flag, the gift of Fidelity Lodge No. 120 a mor
fittmg Lodge could not have been the donor I speak kn · 'I
h e
I
F' d r L d
·
·
owmg y w en
a :ty 1 e ity ~ ge is and has always been charitable and just to all
n a 1ways stan s for the right, and justice is a dominant spirit with
~hem. I~ all my a~sociation with the brethren of Fidelity Lod e I
.with me pleasure, inhaling while with them the
asomc spmt which they exhaled.

~ve c~rne~ ~way

~rue

than~n t~ee ~ame of the ~aso!1ic Temple Association of California, I
GI
d embers of F1dehty Lodge for this beautiful gift Old
f th
h
'
ory, an assure each and every on
this beautiful American flag will be a ~:g remememtb ere
at dthel
possession of
p easure.

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

31

30

.
d
d by the Grand
h D Redding was then intro uce
osep d he addressed the brethren as follows :
..
M aster, an

J

.
f the Masonic Temple Assoc1abon,
The illustrious President 0
h" d p disappointment at
·
ed
me
to express ts ee
William H. Crock er, d estr .
.
H . at the present moment
.
.·
b
·th us this even mg.
e ts
.
f
his mab1hty to e wt .
.
k n the Atlantic side o our
.
t ph1lanthrop1c wor 0
h" h ·
engaged m a grea
.
d his address to you, w ic is
country, and he has designated me to rea
as follows :

.
.
· Temple Association of Cali(orma:
"To the Stockholders of the Mason1~ .
d d
t" to the Creator
evo ton '
I of faith m an
The building of a T emp e
. ' .
f ankind All history
h
been the aspiration o m
·
of the Universe, as ever
.
f these inspiring edifices. As the
is chiefly traced by what remains o f
armth and life, so the soul
flower lifts its head toward :he sunh ~~ :Ommunion with the invisible
of man reaches upward, seeking to ~ . ht
and yet all-pervading ~pirit of the ~:1l~ft~· minarets that reflect the
From the foundat10n stone to 11 that masonry architecture and
f th eye of Heaven;i a
' .
f G d
glance o
.e .
a humble tribute to the maiesty o
o .
building achieve is to pay
d
f years un. t d for several thousan s o
'
When an order has ex1s. e
t b because its foundation stones
changed in faith and ritual, it. mu~ll e erec.ted true to the plummet.
.
th line and its pt ars
d b th
are laid true to
e
d
thed by time untouche
Y e
The great order of Masons stan ~ ~nscaBrotherhood' founded on Love.
es because 1t is a
.
f th
devastation o
e ag '
f
f~ith in a few words
If I should venture to declare thehteMnets no "1osuar trus;ee for the hapb r
that eac
aso
I would say: We e iev~
Therein lies the strength of our
piness of every ?ther
asondistant and formal duty, but a warm,
Brotherhood. It is. no c~ld,
. I the globe itself and causes our
personal filial a.ffect1~n which enc1rc es
hearts to beat m umson..
.
and until the Supreme Intelligence
So long as human hfe e:c1st~.t t into the Place of Eternal R\!st,
has gathered the last earthly mha 1 a~
d i g good one to the other,
·n
fraternity survive, o n
·
just so long wt our
f
d to unborn generations
and teaching the immortal truths o our cree
of Masons to come.
.
.
famil nature could prevent
Nothing but the pressing dut~~s of ~orabl/ occasion. I had fully
my being personally present on t ts ;e
t . the dedication of our
expected to be with you and to ta e par m
beautiful and completed home.
h d t
ther under the great
Vividly I see my brothers gat o~: fait~g:nd illumined with the
dome, canopied with the symbols o~ the wonderful inspiration of such
glory of the Cross of Calvary. Oh.
a scene!

Good fortune and the natural riches of the most fruitful of
God's domain have permitted us to erect here in our home city a
place of worship, which for beauty, purity, simplicity ~nd dignity may
well take its place among the great landmarks of masonry; those
splendid achievements in architecture which have blazed the way from
King Solomon's Temple in the far East to the uttermost confines of
the Wes tern Hemisphere.
As President of the Masonic Temple Association I hereby request
our distinguished Vice-President to deliver into your hands and
possession forever this beautiful building. May we always approach
its portals with a contrite heart and a lowly spirit. Within its walls
may we hold fast to the tenets of our faith; nay more, may ·we
imbibe the great truths of Masonry with a firm determination to
practice them one with the other at home and abroad in every walk
of life.
Finally, when our brothers from distant parts, duly accredited,
knock at our doors, open them gladly; give welcome and see to it
that the fires upon our altar glow with warmth and good cheer, so
that for all time to come, good Masons may find within this Temple a
Hearth and a Home.

The Grand Master: I will now request Past Master
David S. Hirshberg to respond on behalf of the stockholders.
MosT WoRSHTPFUL GRAND MASTER AND BRETHRiN oF THE CRAFT:

I join in applauding the eloquent sentiments communicated to us
through Brother Redding, by Brother Crocker, the President of
the Hall Association. On behalf of the stockholders of the Hall
Association I have the great honor to receive this building-this
splendid monument to California genius and Masonic industryand to request the :Most Worshipful Grand Master that it be dedicated by him to the uses and purposes of Masonry.
As we are gathered here tonight in this magnificent temple,
reare'd by the great Masonic fraternity as a memorial to its noble
work, a feeling of sincere regret comes over me, that one who
participated so prominently in the movement for a new Masonic
Temple, is no longer with us. It will be remembered that immediately after the great disaster of 1906, steps were taken under
the leadership of our well beloved Brother Reuben II. Lloyd, for
the consummation of that much-cherished desire on the part of our
great brotherhood. It will be unnecessary to go into details concerning Brother Lloyd's activity, it is suffic:ient to suggest here
to-night, that it was he who selected this ideal location for the
erection of our new Masonic Home. Assodated with Brother Lloyd,

D~ICATlO~ CfF

32

THE TEMPLE
DEDlCA TION OF TiiE' 'l'EMPLE

.
by ·the tfren
Most Worshipful
at the time of h1.s first appmrttment,
v11·11·
p F1'lmer
Brother ·v 1 tam ·
H Fl'
Grand Master M?Hey
.
m~a~:;e of to-day; Edward Coleman,•
onr Most Worsh1pf~l Grandi
d rrd who is held in grateful
h0 h
gone to his eterna rewar a
M
w
a: .
b rshi . Charles Schlessinger, Ch:ar1es
·
recotlectran by our .mem ~ pp ' G nd Master Orrin S . Hender-

s~~v!~ff::1~e a~o ;:~rs

mor~,

Phutt, Wm.
r:r
when Brother Lloyd
. . .
f the associatian and was succeeded
son. They
withdrew from the acbvrt1es o
.
n'ed a~ Chairman
by Past Grand Mast~r George M. Pen~d
ifro~her Williani H.
n 1911 when he m turn was suceee
Y
•
un
I.
,
• so wen known as to requtre no commenCrocker,
whnse
W01' k :1s
dation ; it speaks for itself.
.
h 'I
.
·
f
!906 up to the present time, w 1 e
During all these years, rom b .
k d out frequent conthe details of the building were emg wo: e
:
h d and
b .
h Id consultations with architects a ' .
ferences were emg e '
.
f the building being cons1dns for the construction o
.
d
f no small amount of vexat1onways an mea
ered-whicl1 latter were the ca~si o
h
William P. Filmer,
our Most Worshipful Grand Niaster, . Brot er
.
atters in
foregomg m
was a mem ber Of the committees havmg the
.

w:o-

charge.
h
t kh ?den! and
That the Hall Association has given t?· t e s oc o
. hthe fraternity an edifice of whieh all can b~ JUShtly proud, gr:n w;ho
. b .
sible to mention t e names o
out
. It
great success achieved and to celeoontn
tn s a-re gathef"ed here to-night, but duty compels me
brate winch we
.
.
dd't'
to tho~e already named:
to mention the followmg, !rt a ' wn
F d W
I E Kent William E. Lutz, John Fraser, John Sala, re dy.
S
amue
·
,
Ch:a 1 s A Adams Edward Peabo ,
Van Sicklen, Rod. Y. Guyett,
re t. at hand' I would mention
d
r'h' s others whose names are no
·
.
an pe ap
f
'b f
to the suecess of tha great
all who had th~ honor o contr1 :~r: ave so freely of their time
enterprise, for m after. yeadrs, ~II . i!nefactors In this connecand zeal will be c:onsrdere
asomc
.
ood word
'oded th4lt it is aloo my duty to say a g
ti0t1, I am rem1 h
Th
s Muirhead the Superintendent of Con. heh If of Brot er
orna
'
· hf 1 t
m
a who was ever waichful of our interests and fa1t u 0
struction,
his trust.
.Reverting again to the activity o f B roth er F I'lmer .in his con•
.
'th this splendid monument to Masonry, and ?1s unceasmg
nect1on w1
h
I must emphasize the magand untirin~ labors in r~spec~rttt d~~et~~ll attention to . the fact that
nitude of his· efforts an p_o1 e
·m He seemed to give to
the fraternity is deeply obligated to hh1. .
private affairs To
k
ter fidelity than to is own
·
the tasthateven
grea.
' is
. not at all difficult to understand. It
those
know
hun, t h is

s.~in~
ut~

:~~ :a;rr:~osthe

can he swnmed up in one word, full of meanin11, fuH Qf sigmifiis a MaSQll,

<:ance~he

Perhaps no Mason in the jurisdiction of California has ha·d the
·wondedul and successful Masonic experience that Brother Filmer
has had. He has been active in the erection of three stately Masonic
edifices. During the year that he was Worshipful Master of King
Solomon's Lodge No. 260, the magnificent hall and building owned
by that Lodge and its membecs was erected; he participated actively
-very a.ctively-in tbe erection and dedication of the heautiful Scottish Rite Temple, loc.ated at the corner o f Van Ness avenue and
Sutter street, which is a credit to San F rancis.co and a glory to
Masonry; and as before stated, he has peen interested in and connec;ted with this building-the most magnificent of a!I buildings in
this Queen City by the Western sea.
Brother Filmer has been a Mason fifteen years and in that

~paratively short space of time, be has risen to the dignified

position of Grand Master of the large and growing jurisdiction of
California, and in the meantime progressing step by step in closely
relate<l bodies of the craft. He is inspector General of the Scottish
Rite for the Northern Jurisdiction of California; he is f ast Master
of his Lodge ; Past High Priest of his R oyal Arch Chapter; Treasurer of both I.odge and Chapter, and Treasurer of the Western
Addition Masonic Hall Association. I know of no man in the
fraternity whose activities have been so la.rge as his. In view of
all this and his close connection with this building from the very
outset up to this moment, it would seem peculiarly appropriate that
he should be called upon to dedicate th.is hall, the other halls and
rooms herein, and this triumph of architecture, to Masanic uses.
Most Worshipful Grand Master: On behalf of the stockholders,
the brethren of· California, the L odges of California, the Grand Lodge
of California; on behalf of Masonry of California, who, being animated with a desire to .promote the honor and the interest of the
craft, have erected and furnished this building for t heir convenience
and accommodation, I ask you to dedicate the same to Masonic
uses and purposes, agreeably to the ancient forms. and ceremonies
of the Craft.

The Grand Master replied as follows:
BROTHER H111SJ{B£RG; AND Bu:TJutliN : I acc;ept with pleasure the
important and interesting duty which you request of me. In doing
so permit me to express to the brethren of the State of California,
our hearty appreciation of the enterprising spirit which actuated them
in the erection of this magnificent structure, which is a great credit to
the fraternity and a beautiful ornament to this city. In accordance

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE
DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

34

with the teachings of our Institution, it is our du~y, before ~~ter~ng
and important undertaking, to first mvoke the eo;smg
upon any great
.
.
G
d Ch 1 · in prayer.
of God. We will, therefore, unite with our ran
ap am

The Grand Master called up the bret~ren and the
venerable Grand Chaplain offered the following
PRAYER.

0 Thou Supreme Architect of the Universe! the Creator of the
earth and the unlimited starry heavens above ~S, ou~ Father. a~d o~~
d I We come to Thee with hearts overflowmg with gratttu e ~f 1
G0 •
d
Our holy and beautt u
b
d
pleasure that Thou hast answere our prayers. .
h
'here our fathers and brethren praised Thee was . urne up
w~~~e fi:, and all our pleasant things were laid waste; s~~ll we ;e~~
fast our trust in Thee, unshaken by earthquake, and ~,n ismaye wa~
.
flames. for as the prophet of old declared, yet God
d evourmg
•
.
h fi " H
we are
not in the earthquake and God was not m t e re. . ere .
Th
ith thanl&giving and to dedicate this new
.
ee w
'
·h
h
d
come to praise
.d Solomon King of lsrae1' w en e praye '
Temp1e to Th ee, as dl
'
1 I
·1 b t
"Moreover, concerning a stranger that is not o~ Thy peophe s~ae 'sh:il
cometh out of a far country, for Thy name s sake, . w en e .
ioward this house hear Thou in heaven Thy dwellmg
d
c~me an d p~~y according to all that the stranger calleth to Thee for,
p ace, an
.
k
Th name to fear Thee, as do
that all people of the earth may now . y
. h
h" h I
1
d th t the may know that this ouse w IC
1
~::e t:~f~:d ~;a:aile~nby T~y na~e." So we, 0 Thou Grea~ Jehovah!
in like spirit implore Thy blessing upon all our brethren w~~ther:~:v::
i ersed and upon all those who shall come here t? um e WI
"
~m spour labors o f h umam·ty, in the "household of the· faithful and true. d
And now, 0 Lord we ask Thy blessing upon our beloved Gran
' nd members of this Grand Lodge, a.nd true
Master, the officers a
d 1 f
May this Temple prove to be the c1ta e o
h
Masons everyw ere.
f ·
·t
d truth of
patriotism of moral and physical courage, o mtegn Y an f h '
ood con;cience as impregnable as the walls and ramparts o eaven
:here Thou and Thy angels and our brethren and loved ones wh~
ne before do now abide. Preserve, 0 God, our country an
~:;eli~~rties fore~er; and the praise of Thy great name eternally shall
be Thine.

Amen.

The Grand Master seated the brethren, when Brother
Faville, the arch~tect of the Temple, advanced to
:~ ~~nt in the east, and addressed the Grand Master as
follows:

35

MosT WORSHIPFUL GRAND MAsTJ\R: Having been intrusted with
the duty of supervising and directing the workmen employed in the
construction of this edifice, and having to the best of my ability
accomplished the task assigned to me, I now return my thanks for the
appointment, and beg to return to you the implements committed to
my care when the cornerstone of this structure \tas laid (presenting
the square, level and plumb), humbly hoping that the result of our
labors will be crowned with your approbation, and that of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge.

To which the Grand Master responded:
Brother Faville, the skill and ability displayed in the execution of
the trust reposed in you at the commencement of this undertaking
have received the entire approbation of the Grand Lodge. The
brethren of the Masonic fraternity of California are proud of youproud that you are a Mason, proud to know you have given us this
'l'emple, and in behalf of the brethren and the fraternity of California,
I thank you for the design and completion of this beautiful home.
'l'he brethren sincerely pray that this edifice may continue a lasting
monument of the taste, spirit and liberality of its founders.

Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller then presented
the beautiful solid silver trowel with which he had laid
the cornerstone of the Temple, in the following words:
MosT W ORSHIP~'UL GRAND MASTER : Two years ago we laid the
-cornerstone upon which rests the structure which we are dedicating
tonight to the purposes of Masonry. Since then the forest, the fac_tory, the foundry and the quarry have given their share of contribution to the materials which compose this building. They have
been assembled by the cunning of the artisans into the beautiful,
perfect and complete whole. It has pleased the Almighty to grant
our prayer that the workmen employed upon this building might
be protected from every accident, and that it might be completed
in peace, love and harmony, and the spirit of which the trowel is
·emblematical has been permitted to prevail among the workmen.
It was my proud privilege to officiate at the .ceremony of the laying
of the cornerstone of this building. I now desire to present to
the Grand Lodge of California, the trowel which was used at that
time as a token of sincere and devoted love for this institution, with
the hope that it may remain in the archives of this Grand Lodge
as a constant reminder of the fraternal bonds by which we are
-:bound together.

DEDlCA TION OF THE TEMPLE
DEDICATION OF 'l'Hlil TEMPLE

To which the Grand Master responded:
BRoTH:ER W£I.U:R: On behali of the Gr.and Lodge of California,
and on behalf of the Masonic Temple Association of California,
I express their thanks and .gratitude for the return of this token.
We realize that .during your splendid administratior, yuu participated in many public functions, and that you received many tokens
from that participation, .and we also realize that _perhaps-and we
are not presumptuous in that assumption-that this is the oRe which
you prize above all others. This will be laid away in the archives
ot tne Grand Lodge, 300 in the yeaTs that are to c~e, this Grand
Lodge will be proud to remember that it was presented to us by
Most Worshipful Past Grand Master Weller.

The Deputy GTand Master then said:
MosT WORSHIPFUL GRAND MAST:ER: The hall in which we are now
assen:r\)ted, and the plan upon which it is con!>tructed having met
with your approw1l, it is the desire of the brethren that it should now
be dedicated according to ancient form and usage.

The Grand Master replied:
RIG-HT WORSHIPFUL DEPUTY G11AND MASTER : Agreeably to the
t'equeSt of the "bTet1tren, we wilt now prooee-0 with tbe CC1"emoriies.
Brothec Grat'ld Marshal, you will form the Grand Officers in procession.

The Grand ·Marsha1 formed the procession, during the
forming of which the following dedication hymn was sung
by the choir :

Air-"Pkyel's Hymn."

Supreme Grand Master! most sublime!
High thrcm'd in Glory's radiant clime;
Behold Thy sons on bended knee,
Canven'd, 0 God, to worship Thee!
And as 'tis Thtne with open ear,
The sup{}licating voice to hear,
Grant T·hou, 0 Lord, this one request,
Let Masons be, in blessing, blest.
0 ! give the Craft, from pole to pole,
· The feeling heart, the pitying scrul,
The generous breast, the lib'ral hand,
Compassion's balm, and mercy's brand.

With cliac.ity that poun; ar-0U11d,
The wine and oil on mis'-ry'i wowid.
And heals tbe widow's, orph.an's bea,rt,
Deep pierced by sorrow's venom'd dart.
Then to Thy throne the Craft shall raise
One deathless song of gra-tef.ul pmise;
And Masons, men in eh&us jom,
To hy1tm the power of love di.vine.

The Grand Officers then marched around the symbol
of the Lodge once, at the same time the following stanza
was sung:
Air-"Old Httfidred"Genius of Masonry I descend
And with thee bri.ng thy s;ot1ess train;
Constant our sacred rites attend
While we adore thy peaceful 'reign.

When the Gr~nd Master ani.ved at the East of the
Einble_m, the music c-eased and . the pr-0ees15ion halted and
faced i~ward; tee Grand Off.icer-s l.meeled, and the Grood
Chaplain offered the following
PRAYER.
Almighty and Eternal God! Maker and Ruler of 11 I D .
f
Thy
celestial
etgn
rom
a
bl I W temple to bless us in all th e purposesa o.f our
present
s~em y .
e h~mbly implore Thee to give us Wisdom in all our
?omgs, Strength 1n_ all ou-r difficuhies, and the Beattty of barmon
m all. our
Permit us, 0 Thou Great :Jehovah,
of. Light and Life, Source of Love and Happine5s to consecra1e
this temple and dedicate it to 'Thy honor and Thy 'serytce.
.
A men.

uw:ler~akmgs.

Autho~

The Grand Officers responded:
Glory to God on high ; on earth peace, good will to men.

The Grand Officers then rose and moved around the
symbol of the Lodg.e, as befor,e, du-ring which the second
stanza of the ode was sung·:
"Bring with thee VM-tue, brightest maid ·
B:ing ~ove, bring Truth, bring Friends.hip her~
While kmd Relief shall lend her aid,
To smooth the wrinkled brow of Care."

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE
DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

38

When the Grand Master reached the East, the procession halted, faced inward, and the Junior Grand
Warden advanced and presented the Vessel of Corn, saying:
MosT WoRSHJPFUL GRAND MASTER: In the dedication of Masonic
halls it has been the immemorial custom to pour Corn upon the
Lod~e as an emblem of nourishment. I, therefore, present to you
this Vessel of Corn, to be employed by you according to ancient
usage.

The Grand Marshal slowly uncovered the emblem of
the Lodge, and the Grand Master called up the brethren
by striking the emblem thrice with his gavel, and poured
the Corn upon the. emblem, saying:
J.n the name of the Great Jehovah, to whom be all honor and
glory, I do solemnly dedicate this Temple to Freemasonry.

The Grand Honors were then given once. The Grand
Master seated the brethren, and the procession moved
around the emblem, during which the third stanza was
sung:
"Bring Charity with goodness crowned;
Encircled in thy heavenly robe;
Diffuse thy blessings all around,
To every corner of the globe."

When the Grand Master reached the East, the Senior
Grand Warden advanced and presented the Vessel of
Wine, saying:
MosT WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER: Wine, the emblem of refreshment having been used by our ancient brethren in the ceremonies of dedication and consecration, I present to you this Vessel
of Wine, to be used by you on the present occasion according to
ancient Masonic form.

The Grand Master then struck the emblem three times,
and sprinkled the Wine upon the emblem, saying:
In the name of the Holy Saints John, I do solemnly dedicate
this Temple to Virtue.

39

The Grand Honors were then given twice; the brethren
were seated, and the procession moved around the emblem, during which the fourth stanza was sung:
"To heaven's High Architect all praise,
All praise, all gratitude be given,
Who deigned the human soul to raise,
By mystic secrets sprung from heaven."

When the Grand Master arrived at the East, the
Deputy Grand Master advanced and presented the Vessel
of Oil, saying:
Mosr 'YORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER : I present to you, to be
used ~ccord1~g to ancient custom, this Vessel of Oil, an emblert of
that Joy which should animate every bosom on the completion of
any important undertaking.

The Grand Master struck the emblem three times and
sprinkled the oil upon the emblem, saying:
·
'
In the name of the whole Frater~ity, I do solemnly dedicate this
Temple to Universal Benevolence.

The Grand Honors were then given thrice, after which
the Grand Officers resumed their seats on the stage, and
the Grand Marshal recovered the emblem.
The choir rendered "Awake Up My Glory," and
Brother Samuel M. Shortridge was introduced, and delivered the following eloquent address on Masonry:
MASONRY.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, and you, my Brethren:
Behold! it is finished: the house is built. The architect the
a~ist, ~he artisan, rests from his labor, happy each in knowing' that
his bram and hand have helped to rear a glorious temple which shall
perpetuate his name and honor his memory.
Behold! it is finished: the house is built. A splendid ideal
design has become a more splendid physical creation-hope has been
transmuted into a fact-a sublime purpose has been achieved. On
the corner-stone which we laid and upon which· we poured the corn
o_f no~rishment, the- wine of refreshment and the oil of joy, has
risen m splendor ~nd stands in majestic beauty this glorious Temple,
erected and this night and forever dedicated to Masonry and to God.

. 40

DEDJCA'NON OF THE TEMPLE

DEDICA TJON OF THE TEMPLE.
~ecuTe.

Yes, my brethren, we dedicate this Temple' to Masonry and to
the Almighty Architect who created all things in heaven and ear~h
arid ern'lued the universe wirti harmony and iaw, who ¢anted m
the soul of man a . yean1ing after immortality and promised him
eternal life.
Even as they who went in gladness ·to dedicate the Temple
erected on Mount Moriah, so we come to consecrate to sacred and
divine uses -this Temple of our faith. Gratefo.ll;r we dedicate it to
Masonry, the daughter of heaven; humbly we dedicate. it. to G?d,
w.hose c.o.ntirmi:ng approv.at we invoke and whose ev.erlastmg blessmg
we ~mp:lore.
vVe come rejoicing, with hearts overflowing with gratitude, with
lips that fain would tell the world . our faith, our purpose, and our
hope.
We come iLl spirit exalted by a consciousness of the holy and
glorious deeds our brethren have wrought, recalling with humble
hearts but lofty pride, if we may not recount, the record of our
blessed Order which 'is ~nob'led by countless acts of charity, by
untold works of love.
We come singing anthems for the dead who through danger
and calumny carried oUT celestial banner until danger turned into
security and calumny into praise-the dead brothers of ancient and
mediaeval times who misunderswod, distrusted, a.nd denounced, were
faithful to the Word and kept alive on her many altars the Light
of M<i.sonry-a J.,1ght which iHumines the gate of death and leads
us safely through the valley and Shadow of doubt even into that
mansion "not made with. hands, eternal in fhe heavens."
We come proclaiming aloud, that all men may hear, our Faiththat high abov.e all .e arthly principalities and power-s, above all kings
and thrones, s4ts the Aintighty A,-chitect whose plans are infinitely
divine, whose works are sublimely perfect, whose promise is immortality.
Thus coming, with hearts rejOicing, with spirits exalted, singing anthems of .Praise, .and proclaiming our faith, we thank all w~o
have aided greatly or little toward the building of this Temple.
Tei the ar.cliit.ect in whose brain this gl01"io11s c.reatio.n took
on its symmetry and .b.e.41.ucy; to the artist whose genius embellished and adorned it; to the artisan whose ski11ed hand reared
these lofty columns-to .all whose brain and hand designed and
wrought this noble and magnificent T!!mple I am bidden to express our admiration .and our gratitude.
Let .us rej.oice, imy brethren, let ius rejoice aloud; for 'tbe
ho.use .is b.uilt ; the altar is in ,pla.ce, 1:he ark of 1:he covenant' is

41

He!'e are the +mplements of our cr<1.ft. suggestive of
moral truths. Here are the cup of mercy, the rod of
<liscipline, the swerd of justice. Here .a.re the symbols of our
faith-the gauge by whkh we divide the day into .periods of labor,
of rest and of serv.ice to God and distressed brothers; the gavel
by which our heai"tS are purified and our minds ennobled; the
J>lttmb by which we are taught to stand and walk erect, leaning not,
lest we fall; ·the square which reminds us of the duty of discharging
every maral and legal obligation imposed or assumed; the level
which enforces the truth that we are all .equal in rights and responsibilities, that rich and poor, distinguished and obscure, stand
on a common footing, that as Masons we are comrades of like
rank and station; the compass by which our duties and rights are
measured and adjusted; the trowel which cements us together in
union.
~recious

..

Here are the Globes suggestive of the earth and moon and
sun-of all the heavenly bodies that, started on their eternal journey,
swee~ onward through un~easurable space in harmony and glory,
obedient to law and reflectmg the omriipcxtence of their Creator.
Here are the Ornaments, the Lights, and the Jewels of our
fraternity, the deep significance of which are this night vivid in
our minds and radiant in our hearts.
And 11ere is the revealed word of God the Book of Books,
the Holy Bible, containing his Commandment~ whom we . praise and
serve. and that other Commandment of Him who spake as never
man spake-Love y e 011e another.
With all these symbols and tokens as continuing inducements
to noble though ts and generous deeds; with all these proud memories as excitement to our zeal in acts of chaTity; with all these
precious truths leading us in the path of honor and admonishing us to justify our faith by worthy acts; with God's word before
us, lighting us through the darkness into the perfect day, let us
renew our devotion, let us re-affinn our allegiance, 1ct u s reconsecrate our minds and hearts to 1:he eternal and just priaciples
and the righteous anil godlike purposes 0f our Order.
And what, my brethren, are those principles and purposes
which make of our Fraternity an Institution de~nving, we think,
the pra ise of men and worthy, we humbly trust, of the approval
of heaven? Suffer me to remind you of some of 'them:
Masonry teaches temperance in aU tbings, fortitude under all
circumstances, prudence in all walks of life, and justice to all men.
Masonry te&:hes Faith in God and believes that his "j11dgments
are t-rue and righteo.us a.ltogeth.er."
\

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLl<J

42

:e-

Masonry consoles the sorrowing, inspires the despondent,
vives the drooping spirit of the forlorn and fallen, and, smoothmg
his
th
et it may be with his tears and blood, encourages man
withp~~p; to do and die for Country, for God and truth. . .
t h
and would have her disciples exemplify m
Masonry eac es
d d ·
h
blime word
their daily lives those virtues comprehe~ e m t e s~ .
which

~~ar~;ul th::ck~~:ri~s ~;~seanv;r~r:~:elst isofl_o;:e-t~~~it~ aF~vitt~esd

Li~ten once more to her '.lngel voice as it issued from t e msp1re

1ips of God's ambassador:
"Though I speak with the tongues of _men and of angels, and
b s or a tinkling
have not charity, I am become as soun d mg ras
cymbal."
.
And though I have the gift of prophecy and un~erstand all
.
d ll knowledge. and though I have all faith, so that
mysteries an a
'
.
·
I
thing
am no
.
1 could remove mountains, and have not charity,
And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor: an~
though I give my body to be ~urned, and have not charity, :rt
-profiteth me nothing.
.
.
.
Charity suffereth lo_ng, and is kind ; chanty env1eth no~; ~~arity
vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up ; doth not behave ~tse unketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thmketh no
i
::~~ y;ej~~~eth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; be~reth
ll ;hings believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all thmgs.
~nd now' abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest
-0f these is charity."
Masonry believes in the immortality of the soul.-t~at t~e body
. h s but the soul ascendeth unto God; that this little Journ~y
-pens e
11 f r£
that created m
,
.
f
the cradle to the grave is not a o ' e;
~~;image, with capacity for love, with a yearning for _truthh with
:a desire for eternal existence, the soul of man shall tnump over
.
-death and, emancipated from mortality, exist forever.
Masonry recognizes and teaches that throughout the umver~e.
-from the drop of dew sparkling on the bosom of mo~n to t e
shinin star on the dark forehead of night-all nature, amm.ate an_d
· gate is subservient and obedient to law. And observmg this
mamm ,
in harbeneficent reign of divine law, whereby a11 nature moves
rder Masonry inculcates obedience to human laws, enmony an d o
•
·
·
ect for
- oins loyalty ~o wisely established governments, mspires resp
-~he rights of men and nations, be they strong or ~~ak, and s~eks
-ever and everywhere to remove the causes and mitigate the or-rors of unrighteous war and bring in that blessed day when Peace
:Shall gather her children about her in one great fraternal brotherhood.

43

Yes, my brethren, Masonry is, the champion of orderly, regulated government, the defender of freedom, and teaches that no
state, no nation can be great, or its people prosperous and happy
without just and. equal laws, equally and justly administered.
Masonry is the patron of the sciences and the arts-of the
sciences which have reared the beneficent structure of civilizationof the arts which have 1beautified it. She recognizes that this
beautiful structure of civilization, from turret to foundation-stone,
is the result of labor of hand and brain, and labor she exalts.
Labor in the quarry, procuring the Rough Ashlar, and in the workshop preparing the Perfect Ashlar; labor in the studio of Phidias
fashioning into classic beauty lifeless marble and breathing into it
the soul of a goddess; labor of the poet singing to us of Paradise,
of the historian garnering the lessons of ages dead and gone ;
labor at the easel of Rubens moving the heart to unutterable emotion by the "Descent from the Cross" or of a Turner transferring
to canvas the dappled morning, the tranquil beauty of the purple
hills, the fading glory of retreating day; labor of the composer,
making the air to vibrate with celestial harmony and ravishing
our hearts with sublime and heavenly symphonies; lahor in the
pulpit expounding the Holy Bible and "justifying the ways of God
to man" ; labor of the scientist, wresting from nature her most
hidden secrets and conquering the malignant enemies that prey on
life; labor on Mount Hamilton, measuring, weighing the stars as
they speed onward, and tracing the mysterious path of the comet
as it pursues its flight, "lone, wandering, but not lost" ; labor of
the lawgiver, laying broad and deep the foundation of wise and
stable government and formulating laws for the safe-guarding of
life and liberty; labor on the bench, patient and merciful, administering God's justice on earth; labor in the deep, dark mine that
mankind may be lighted and warmed and industry rewards the
countless hands of toil ; labor on the earth ploughing, planting,
reaping the prairies, tunneling the mountains, felling . the forests,
erecting habitations, guiding the lightning, conquering the air ; labor
on the sea-carrying the products of industry from land to land
and bringing into harmonious relation once alien and hostile peoples
-manly, godlike labor, thou hast nobly performed thy appointed
task and behold the work of thy hands. Law, order, government;
literature, science, art; the earth made habitable, human life prolonged, and mankind, risen from ignorance to knowledge, from
bondage to freedom, approaching nearer and nearer, day by day,
to that long dreamed-of hour when Justice shall be <;_rowned and
from her throne of beauty rule the world !

44

DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE
DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE

And it is beeat1·se Masonry exafts labor that we treas\lre the
memory of the Operative Masons te> whom we are indebted for
whatever makes our Order symmetrical and enduring, wQrthy and
beneficent. They builded better than they knew. We see them toiling through the centuries; we see them exemplifying the beauties of
harmony, the blessing of union, the virtue of obedience, and the
necessity for law; we see the useful and reverent work of their
master hands-the palace, the temple, the cathedral rising in majestic
beauty and exciting the wonder and admiration of alt time; we
see them laying the foundation of a spiritual temple-the temple
of Free and Accepted Masonry, which shall exist as long as love
stands by a human grave, as long as man has faith in God, practices Charity, worships Justice and yearns for immortality.
Yes, my brethren, we may well pay grateful tribute to the
Operative Masons. "If they were unacquainted with the works. of
phtlosophers and poets, they were deeply read in the oracles. of God.
If their names were not found in the registers of heralds, they
were recorded in the Book of 'Life." Rest, rest in thy unmarked
grave, 0 humble Mason. The temple we are dedicating tonight
is the fruit of thy labor, a monument to thy memory. As. long as
gratitude abides in Masonic hea·rts thy name, thy glory shall not die.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, two years ago we laid the corner-stone of this temple. Our faith has been justified, our hope
realized. I would renew and prolong the prayer I then was privileged to utter.
May this temple be a- home of nourishment for the poor, the
weary and heavy-laden. May it be a place of joy for eyes dimmed
by tears, for hearts bowed down by grief, for the distressed in body
and in mind. May the gladsome light of morning play upon its
walls; may the lingering rays of the evening reflect its' glory. May
it stand for generations yet to be, immune from fire and shock,
welcoming to its fraternal hospitality the Masons of California and
of all lands.
But, oh, if it should fall, like that other beloved temple, if it
should be consumed by fire or overwhelmed by disaster, the principles and truths for which it stands will not perish in its ruins.
Those principles are immutable, those truths are immortal, and being
of celestial origin they cannot die, they will survive the wreck of matter and the crash of worlds.. Oh, may this temple stand, watched over
and guarded by the approving stars of heaven, and when it falls, if
fall it must, may our brothers yet unborn erect another and even
more glorio~ and worthy temple to Masonry and to God.

The re.ading of the above

d
.
a dress is good,. but the tleongue of this g
t
,
·
sweetest music and
1·
rea orator was as
f
'
was istened to
.th
..
o ten accorded to the most f
wi
a delight not
avored of brethren.
The choir then sun "R . .
which, by .order of the ~ran;J~ce AU Ye People," after
made the f 0 11 .
aster, the Grand Marshal
owmg proclamation:
.

1iv~ry from the silvery t

By order of the Most W
h'
prodaim that the Tem I .
o~s ipfol Grand Master I -~o h b
·
P e m whrch
•
"
ere y
ed1cated to the purposes of F
we are now assem&Ied bas been
~11 persons interested will tak reet~asonry in due and ancient form
e no rce and
· · .·.
·
I
B
Ing y.
rother Herald you
·11
govern themselves accordwill sound to the West ('
d w1 sou~d to the East (sounds)
.
soun s) you wi1!
d
, you
you will sound to the North (s~unds) . soun to the South (sounds),
d

The Grand Chaplain delivered

the following

BENEDICTION
As Solomon ended hi·s
.
.
11
prayer of d d' ·
a the people with a loud
.
. e icatron he stood and blessed
u
H
voice, saymg Th L d
1
'
e or our God be with
s as
e was with our fath
us. Th t H
ers: et Him not 1
.
a
e may indine our hearts .
. eave us nor forsake .
wa!s and keep His commandments and · ~~,to Hirn, to walk in al! His
;h1ch he commanded our fathers ' That ;~ :~atutes and His judgments,
now that the Lord is God and h
a
e_ people of the earth may
heart therefore be perfect ~ith tht aLt there is none else. Let your
statutes, and keep H'
.
e ord o ur God, to walk . H'
As he decla
ts commandments, as at this day."
in
is
red then, so we repeat. Amen.

The brethren then all . . d
I d"
Jome in the so
"Old
c re . after which the Grand
ng
Hunbrethren to remain standi
. Master requested the
tired.
ng ttnti1 the Grand Officers reThe Officers of the Grand L
"White Room " h
G
odge then repaired to the
' w ere rand Lodge .was closed.

WILLIAM P. FILMER
JOHN WHICHER

'

Grand Secretary.

Grand M~ster.

WILLIAM B. FAVILLE
Arcltit.ed

Grand Lodge of California
I. JoHN WBICHl!R, Grand Secretary of the M.". w:. Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixty-fourth
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the fourteenth day of October, A. L. 5913, and terminated
on Friday, the seventeenth day of said month.

3ht <Urstimnun Dl~trrnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have
affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this sixth day
of November, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirteen.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THB

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

Free and Accepted Masons
OF THE

Jurisdiction of California,
AT ITS

SIXTY-FOURTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION,
HKLD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO,
COMMll:NCING ON

Tuesday, October 14th, A. D. 1913, A. L 5913,
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 17th, A. D. 1913, A; L. 5913;

SAN FRANCISCO:
Shan:nc;>n.~ Conm:v Printin1 Co., 509 Sansom.a Street

1913
j'

GRAND LODGE
OF

ltrtt anh Arrtptth ila.ann.a
OF THE

GRAND OFFICERS

..

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA .

OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L 59 I 3

M.·. w.·. ]OHN D. MURPHtY•......-~-·-'·-··-·-------------------····-·-··-·-Grand Master
R.". w:. BENJAMIN F. BLtDsoit.........- ................•...Deputy G1·and Master
R.·. w.·. ALBERT G. BURNlTT...................;................Sntior Grand Warden
R.". w.·. FRANCIS v. IU!sLING...........•.............-........Junior Grand Warde"
v:. w:. WILLIAM P. FILlUtR............................................Grand Treasurer

v.·. w. ·. ]oHN · WBICBltR..---···············- ········-························-Grand Secretary

v. ·. w. ·.THOMAS ]. BAXJta...........:___.............................- .....Grand Lecturer
v:. R.". LJtMUEL L. TJtST--··············--·····-········--··········-····(;,o"d Chaplain

w.·. WILLIAM H. WASTl.•........~........................................Grand Orator
w:. HARRY S. ]oBNSON••..•....•...•....•.............As.sUtant Grand Secretary
w:. WILLIAM KrrTNJtR....................... ······-··--·········-Grand Marshal
w.·. JOSHUA D. Tuoaa;...................:...............Grand Sta1Sdard Bearer
w.·. Ll!O v. YOUNGWOl:'rH...._ .............................Grand Sword B earer
w:. EDWIN A. SHERMAN............~---·---··-···----··-···-·Grand Bible Bearer
w.·. BEN LtvI - - - ----·-······-------·-·······--Sntior Grand Deacon
w:. FRED B. WOOD-·-······'·····---········--·--····-·-······Junior Grand Deacon
w:. RoBn: E. DILL..-..................---·------····-...Senior Grand Steward
w:. BENJ. B. TUTTLlt.---·--····------------·--·-····-.Jtmior Grand Steward
w:. THEODORE J. MILLIKEN..........;.............._ _ _Grand PIU'S11ivant
w:. SAMUl'l. D. MA'111a...- -····-··.:_····- ········
Grand Organist
w. ·. GtoRGE P . .A.n.uls-···-·'.·~·-···--·Grand Tyler
(60)

SIXTY-FOURTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Sixty-fourth Annual Communication in the newly-dedicated Masonic Temple in the City of San Francisco, on
Tuesday, October 14, A. L. 5913, at 10 o'clock a. m.
The Committee on Credentials reported the presence
of all the Grand Officers, except the Grand Treasurer, as
follows:
GRAND OFFICERS
M.". w.·.WILLIAM P . Fu.xa...........-.:················--······-·········Grand Ma.ster
R. ·. W. ·. JoaN D. MuRPBEY........................................Deputy Grand Master
BENJAMIN F. Bunsoi................................Senior Grand Warden
ALBERT G. BUR?QTT.......•...............................Junior Grand Warden
v.·. w.·. ]ORN WBICBllL--·····-···---·····-·····---····-·······-Grnd Secretary
THOMAS J . BAJCD.·-···········-··-·····;··················--······Grand Lecturer
V. ·. R.". EDWIN A. SBl!RMAN....--·-·····························-··-······Grand Chaplain
w.·. WILLIAM RHODES HERvtY_:.........- ········-···'·--······--Grand Orator
lfARRy S. ]oBNSON.•....•.•...••....••••••••.•- ..As.tistant GraKd S ecretary
WILLIAM KuTNmt...-......·-··························-·:...........Grand Marshal
JOSHUA D. Tuc:ttn.........................•..._.Grand Standard Bearer
Lto V. YouMGWORTB ....................................Grand Sword Bearer
SAMUEL E. BURIQ...............-·-················-- ·····-GrCU1d Bible Bearer
BEN Llvt-·- ·- ···················-··············-···-······.Seraior Grand Deacon
FRED B. Worm. ......,.......................................Junior Grand Deacon
ROLAND E. HARTLEY.._............•..........•........Senior Grand Steward
BENJAMIN B. Tu't'(U:..............................Junior Grand Steward
THEODORE J . MILLIXJ!N ...••••••••...••.••....•••••......•••.•.Grand Pursuivant
SAMUEL D. MA,\'J!ll.......................- •.....................:....Grand Organist
GtoRGE P . ADAKS............................................................GraJJd Tyler
(51)

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS.
M.".
M.".
M.".
M.".
M.".
M.".
M.".
M.".

w:. Gl!ORGE c. PERKINS
w:. JAMES B. STEVENS
w:. THOMAS FLINT
w:. CHARLES L . . PATTON
w:. WILLIAM S. WELLS
w:. CHARLES w. NU'l'TING
w:. GEORGE M. PERINE
w:. ALONZO J. MONROE

w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.

being all the living Past Grand Masters except four.
R.".

The American sailor, in peace or war, has ever exhibited the
inherent valor and manhood of the true patriot.

c.

M.". w:. SAMUJ!L
DENSON
M.". w:. Wu.LIAM T. LucAs
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI
M.".
M.".
JAMES A. FosHAY
ORRIN s. HENDERSON
M.".
M.".
EDWARD H. HART
M.".
DANA R. Wtr.LER

w:. CHARLES E. MITCHJiLL-...................Pasl Junior Grand Warden

v:. w:. WILLIAM H. EDWARDS................_.............,Pasl Grand Lecturer
and the Officers and Representatives of more than a Constitutional number of Lodges to constitute a quorum. The
Committee on Credentials requested further time in which
to make a final report, and it was granted.
Prior to opening Grand Lodge, Past Grand Master
William T. Lucas asked permission to speak, which was
granted, and he said:
MosT WORSHIPFUL GRAND MAs'l'JtR: Since. the great fire of 1906
this Grand Lodge has been without the furniture necessary for the
proper conduct of a Lodge, and at its Annual Communications has
depended upon the generosity of the Lodges of San Francisco for
gavels, columns and altar furniture, with the single exception .of
one gavel presented by Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler, which
gavel was fashioned from wood taken out of the old battleship Constitution-Old Ironsides. It is now my pleasure, in behalf of our
Grand Secretary, to present to you, for the use of the Grand Wardens, two silver-mounted gavels made from wood out of the oldest
battleship in the American navy-the Independence.
The history of Freemasonry appeals to those who believe in the
aphorism "That free hands with fettered - thought · is the basest · of
all· slavery."
The men who organized our independence and perfected our
Charter of American freedom were members of our Grand Order.
Those who have been true to the highest ideals of American citizenship have been members of our Craft.

53

The glorious history enacted by our navy is emblazoned on
every page of our country's greatness. ·

,

Old Ironsides and the Independence are synonyms of endurance
and American bravery.
The Independence was built in 1812-under the special supervision of Commodore Bainbridge-the War Dog of the American
Navy. In 1815 she joined the Mediterranean squadron of Stephen
Decatur, the greatest naval officer that ever trod the deck of a
man-of-war's man, and was a component part of the first great fleet
that our country ever sent to foreign waters. Her seventy-four
guns had much to do with blockading the Algerian ports and the
subjugation of the Barbary States.
'
The Independence first appeared on the Pacific Coast in 1848
as the flagship of Commodore Shubrick, and in her thre~ years of
service on the Hesperian shores of our great Republic participated
in the capture of Guaymas and Mazatlan. .In 1851 she returned to
the Atlantic coast and a little later served as flagship in the Mediterranean.
When Mare Island Navy Yard was established in 1854, the
Independence was sent to New York, refitted, , and sailed to San
Francisco to become a guardship, being anchored ·off Third Street.
In 1856 the last chapter in the history of this the oldest man-of-war's
man in the American Navy was begun, when she was transferred
to Mare Island to be used for testing the sectional floating drydocks.
In 1858 she was made a receiving ship, and now rides in the mud
near where she was anchored fifty-five years ago.
.
She is a. memory-but her wood is harder than anything save
iron. Her history reflects credit on her officers and men : American valor and patriotism. Her naval activity and brainy commanders
~id ~uch to conserve the ~eace of the world ; albeit ready to fight
m a JUSt cause when required.
·
Her history spells faith, fullness and devotion to duty, and
should be an inspiration to every Mason. As this old vessel
touched closely the life of our Nation, so does Masonry touch our
national life, but only for peace-Universal Peace.
These gavels I now present to the Grand Wardens, knowing
~ull well that they will always be cherished, and used only in the
interest of the best manhood and the best citizenship.

Brother Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Grand Senior Warden,
responded most eloquently a~d. accepted the gift for the
Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Master appointed W. ·. Ralph Lowe as
Grand Treasurer pro tern., and the Grand Lodge was
opened in Ample Fornr, with music by the choir, and
the following prayer by the Grand Chaplain:

untiring labors of forty and fifty and sixty years ago made it possible for us to enjoy this splendid heritage. They laid the foundation
of our Order in this great State, deep and broad; they erected the
superstructure in such strength and beauty that its usefulness to man
will endure through the ages; their indomitable spirit and their inflexible fidelity to principle have been inspiring examples for future
generations to follow.

54

PRAYER.
Supreme Grand Architect of the Universe! Grateful to Thee
for all the countless blessings and mercies we have received at Thy
hands, we assemble for the sixty-fourth Annual Communication of
this Grand Lodge to worship Thee, and transact the business to
come before it, to Thy honor and the benefit of our brethren of the
mystic tie. And 0 our Father, bless Thou the work of our hands,
lead us in love by Thy good counsel here, and when our labors
on earth are finished, receive us into Thine own house "not made
with hands, eternal in the heavens." Amen.

Most Worshipful William M. David, Grand Master
of Masons in Nevada, was ~ntroduced and conducted to
a seat in the East by the Grand Marshal, the Committee
of introduction being Past Grand Masters Jame~ A. Foshay
and Alonzo J. Monroe.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address, as follows:
ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge,
F. & A . M. of Califo,.ia:
With reverence and gratitude to the Great Architect of the Universe we meet here today in this magnificent Temple, only last night
dedic~ted to the Grand and beneficent purposes of Masonry, symbolic
of the enduring strength and beauty of our Order, and I am pleased
to welcome to the sixty-fourth Annual Communication of our Grand
Lodge the representatives of over fifty thousand Masons whose names
are borne upon the roster of three hundred and fifty-five Lodges.
Well may we congratulate ourselves that after seven years we
are again happily domiciled amid such splendid surroundings; environments which, in their beautiful appointments and embellishments,
breathe the very spirit of our great Institution.
While this grand and stately Temple has, in great measure, been
erected by brethren comparatively young in Masonic work, it is
fitting that we should remember with grateful hearts those whose

55

NECROLOGY.

While we are •complacently enjoying the present moment, let
us pause, in loving remembrance, to pay homage to those who have
fallen in our midst during the past year, for three beloved members
of this Grand Lodge have passed to the great beyond.
On the evening of Friday, November 29th, 1912, our Brother
Henry Sayre Orme, Past Grand Master, was called to the eternal
temple of rest, and no more among men will be seen his genial and
pleasant smile; no more will the influence of his beautiful character
be felt except as the wafting perfume of a fragrant flower. Born
in Georgia in 1837, he came to California in his early manhood and
grew with the great State of his adoption. His zeal, energy and
splendid talents brought to him the highest honors in Masonry.
Brother Orme served the Grand Lodge as Grand Master in 1894
and most ably discharged the duties of his high ~ffice. He exempli~
fied to an unusual degree the lessons of charity, and permitted not
even the practice of his chosen profession, that of medicine, to interfere with what he considered his Masonic duty. His funeral
services were conducted under the auspices of the Grand Lodge of
California by M.". w:. Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master.
The next to pass to the great beyond was Brother William Schuyler Moses, our Grand Bible Bearer, who quietly and painlessly departed this life on the ninth day of December, 1912. Having been
made a Mason in the State of New York in 1849, he reached the
land where he was destined to spend the years of his manhood in
time to be present at the organization of our Grand Lodge, April
19, 1850, in the City of Sacramento. With his demise, so far as we
know, passes the last of those who had actual and personal knowledge of the events of those very early days of our Fraternity in
California. Tall, majestic, dignified, and patriarchal, Brother Moses
was a striking figure in our assemb~ies. The sweetness of his personality, his animated conversations, full of anecdote and reminiscence, will long be remembered by the fraternity of our great State.
On Saturday, the twelfth day of April, 1913, while visiting San
Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, at Ventura, l was inexpressibly shocked
upon the receipt of a telegram from Brother Whicher, our Grand
Secretary, advising me of the sudden death of our beloved Grand

li6

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Treasurer, Brother Edward Coleman. .His long, useful and eminently successful life was brought to a close at his home in San
Francisco on that morning. Brother Coleman was a native of Walton, England, but came to America while quite a young man. He
crossed the plains to California with his brother, John C. Coleman,
in 1853, and engaged in mining in Grass Valley, where both brothers
received the light of Masonry in Madison Lodge No. 23. Brother
Coleman often remarked that his early manhood was beneficently
influenced by the beautiful teachings of our Order, and he was
wont frequently to attribute his splendid succe~ to his early absorption of the precepts and principles of Masonry. His great business acumen, his accurate judgment, supplemented by an integrity
as firm as adamant, enabled him to amass the fortune which he
later devoted to high philanthropic purposes. His able handling of
the funds of our Grand Lodge, his great assistance as a director
of the Masonic Temple' Association; his unerring judgment in our
councils of deliberation, caused him to be invaluable to our Grand
Lodge. The beautiful hospital which he erected, equipped a~d presented to the Masonic Home at Decoto; his generous bequest in his
will to our Masonic Homes, are substantial testimonials of his love
and reverence for our great Institution.
Upon the death of Brother Moses, I appointed w.·. Brother
Samuel E. Burke as Grand Bible· Bearer, 'and w:. Brother John
C. Coleman, brother of our late Grand Trea~urer, to succeed Edward
Coleman in that important Office.
THE bEAD 01' OTHER JURISDic'l'IONS.

Many of our Sister Junsdictions in the States and Canada have
invoked our sympathy· in their sorrow for their dead, as follows:
Alberta-James J. Dunlop, Past Grand Secretary and Past Grand
Master; borne FeJ>ruary 14, 1855; died June 12, 1913. Was the first
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Alb.e rta, in 1905.
Arizona-Jierbert Brown, Past Grand Master; born March 6,
1848; died May ii, 1913..
Arkansas-Sam H. Davisdon, Grand Junior Warden; born January 29, l846; died September 10; 1912.
Arkansas-James Warren Sorrels, Past Gra~d Master; born December 6, 1842; ·died January J4, 1913. . Brother Sorrels was made
a Mason 1while a soldier in the Col).federate Army.
.
. Arkan sas-Styles T. Rowe, Past .Grand Master; born May 28,
1861; d.ied June 2, 1913.
Arkansas--'John "M. Oathout, Grand' Senior Deacon and Past
Grand Ld:niret; born November 8, 1856 ; died · June 20, 1913.
·
Colo'radC>-'-"'Andrew Sagendorf, Past·· Grand Master; born August
26, · 1828 '~ 'died August 2, ·1912. · •

57

Col~rado-John Bernard Haffy, Past Grand Master; born May
6, 1845; died December 9, 1912.
Colorado-William Pettigrew Benedict, Senior Grand Deacon;
born May 25, 1858; died June 17, 1913.
Connecticut-Benjamin F. Turner, Past Grand Master; died April
17, 1913.
Florida-Syd L. Carter, Past Deputy Grand Master; born October 28, 1849; died February 25, 1913.
Mexico-George W. Deits, Grand Junior Warden of the York
Grand Lodge; born 1859; died April 9, 1913.
Illinois-Charles F. Hitchcock, Past Grand Master; born January 11, 1836; died October 26, 1912.
Iowa-Joseph Chapman, Past Grand Master; born June 14, 1831;
died August 27, 1912.
Iowa-Aylett Rains Cotton, Past Grand Master; born November
29, 1826; died October 30, 1912. Brother Cotton had been for many
years a resident of San Francisco, where he died, and was a leading
member of the bar of this State, keeping in active practice until
his 86th year.
Kentucky-Henry Bannister Grant, Grand Secretary; born March
12, 1837; died August 26, 1912. He was one of America's most
distinguished Masons, .and served the Grand Lodge of Kentucky as
Grand Secretary from 1887 to the time of his death.
Kentucky-Harry Bailey, Past Grand Master; born October 14,
1868 ; cruelly assassinated January 27, 1913, while in the performance of his duty as a revenue officer.
Maryland-Edward T. Schultz, Historian of Freemasonry; born
August 23, 1827; died March 11, 1913. He published the reports
on Correspondence of the Grand Lodge of Maryland for 26 years.
Michigan-Charles Elliott Sweet, Past Grand Master; born
March 11, 1860; died July 11, 1913.
Minnesota,-Henry Rogers Wells, Past Grand Master; born
June 23, 1834; died at his home in Venice, California, October 13,
1912.
Montana-Leander Warren Frary, second Grand Master of the
Jurisdiction; born July 28, 1825 ; died at Pasadena October 24, 1911.
He was the first Master of our Corona Lodge No. 324, at Pasadena.
Montana-George Washington Monroe, Past Grand Master; born
September 7, 1837; died December 22, 1912.
Missouri-Ethelbert Forester Allen, Past Grand Master and President of Masonic Home Board; born December 31, 1855; died August
26, 1913.
Missouri-Leroy Branch Valliant, Past Grand Master; born June
14, 1838; died March 3, 1913.

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Nebraska-Daniel Hotchkiss Wheeler, Past Grand Master; born
November 26, 1834; died November 27, 1912. The Grand Lodge of
Nebraska was organized September 27, 1857, and Brother Wheeler
was at that date a representative of Portsmouth Lodge No. 6. He
had the distinction of being reported present at every communication
of the Grand Lodge since its organization excepting only the years
1882 and 1883.
New York-This great jurisdiction reports the loss 'o f only one
member of its Grand Lodge officers, being the senior Past Grand
Master, Christopher G. Fox, who died September 5, 1912. He was
initiated February 13, 1854. For forty-five years he held the office
of Secretary of the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons of the
State of New York.
Ohio-Leander Burdick, Past Grand Master; born March 14, 1835;
died January 1, 1913.
Oregon-William Allen Cleland, Grand Treasurer; born June 22,
i855; died February 27, 1913.
South Dakota-Oscar Sherman Gifford, Past Grand Master; born
October 20, 1842; died January 16,· 1913.
Tennessee-Americus V. Warr, Past Grand Master; born April
9, 1835 ; died October 2, 1912. He was made a Mason in 1862, and
attended Grand Lodge sessions regularly for forty-six years. In
1877 he had the distinction of being elected Grand Master from the
floor without service as Warden, an unusual honor.
Texas-Thomas M. Matthews, Sr., Past Grand Master; born
March 6, 1830; died June 14, 1912.
Texas-R. M. Lusk, Past Grand Master; born 1851; died at his
home in Los Angeles February 21, 1913. ·
Virginia-George William Carrington, Grand Secretary; born
1838; died February 4, 1913. Brother Carrington had been Grand
Secretary of Virginia for twenty years, and was well known in California. It was he who picked up our late Past Grand Master Orme
on the field of battle, where Orme was found desperately wounded,
and nursed him back to life, sent him to California, and notwithstanding that a bullet had penetrated the lungs of Brother ·Orme,
through the ministrations of Dr. Carrington and the invigorating air
of our glorious State, our Past Grand Master Orme lived for more
than forty years.
West Virginia-Joseph Hall, Past Grand Master; born May 18,
1842; died January 25, 1913.
Utah-Christopher Diehl, Grand Secretary 1872 to the date of his
death. which occurred September 17, 1912.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

59

VISITATIONS AND PUBLIC CJ!RJ!MONIALS.

Being firmly impressed with the general good which results to
the craft from the official visits of the Grand Master and believing
also that a knowledge of conditions of the several Lodges can only
be properly obtained from personal observation, I endeavored to
make these visits as extensive and as far reaching as my time would
permit.
Our great State covers an immense area and because of the
large number of Lodges and the geographical immensity of the jurisdiction, it is a physical impossibility to visit all, and therefore I aimed
to include as many as possible by holding district meetings; several
Lodges from different localities often being represented on the same
evening. By this plan some sixty-one Masonic districts, representing
over three hundred Lodges, were visited, and I believe much good
resulted from the increased interest manifested by such occasions.
I was frequently accompanied on these trips by our Grand Lecturer, Brother Thomas ]. Baker, who rendered invaluable assistance,
not only by outlining itineraries for visitations, but also through his
intimate knowledge of the individual conditions surrounding the
Lodges and districts. It is impossible to realize the great value of
this most competent and indefatigable officer of our Grand Lodge,
unless one is close at hand when he is visiting the Lodges and imparting instruction to the brethren. I take this opportunity to express my personal gratitude to him for his numerous acts of courtesy and unselfish kindness.
During these visitations I was privileged to have the honor of
raising thirty brethren to the sublime degree of Master Mason ; of
constituting ten new Lodges ; of installing the officers of twentythree subordinate Lodges ; of laying the cornerstone of three Masonic
Temples and four public buildings, and of dedicating · three Masonic
Temples to the purposes of Masonry.
My first official visit was made October 24th, 1912, to that old •
historic Lodge, California No. 1, where, at the invitation of the Worshipful Master, Harvey A. Marvin, I conferred the third degree of
Masonry upon William B. Faville, the Architect of the new Masonic
Temple at San Francisco.
On October 30th, I was privileged to visit Starr King Lodge No.
344 and conferred the third degree in that Lodge.
The next visit was made to Sequoia Lodge No. 349, on November
2, the occasion being the celebration of its tenth anniversary. The
ladies were present, as also was M.'. w:. William S. Wells, Past
Grand Master, who was Grand Master when the dispensation to
labor was granted to this Lodge.

60

GRA~p LQ,DGE OF .CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

On November 19, 1912, I visited Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, and
at the request of the Worshipful Master again conferred the third
degree. A most enjoyable evening followed.
November 21, 1912, I convened Grand Lodge at El Centro, in
Imperial County, and in the afternoon laid the cornerstone of the
Masonic Temple of El Centro Lodge No. 348; and in the evening
of the same day, convening in. the Lodge room of El Centro Lodge,
constituted Holtville Lodge No. 425. The following evening, in the
town of Brawley, it was my pleasure to enjoy the unusual honor of
conferring the sublime degree of Master Mason upon twin brothers.
The brethren of Imperial County are especially worthy of commendation in their splendid Masonic work, as it is but little more than
nine years since the first house was erected in this wonderfully fertile section of our great State. The brethren have builded well.
Earnest Masonic enthusiasm prevails, and the Lodges at El Centro,
Imperial, Calexico, Brawley and Holtville are playing a deserving
part in the moral upbuilding of this new and progressive community.
On the evening of November 30th, I visited the Lodge of the
twenty-seventh Masonic District, the meeting being held in the Masonic Temple at Stockton. The Inspectors of the Bay Counties and
the Grand Lecturer accompanied me, and the third degree was conferred by the Grand Master, assisted by the Inspectors. On this
occasion the lecture was delivered to three brothers, two of whom
were invested with the degree in the afternoon of the same day.
This meeting was largely attended.
A reception was tendered the Grand Master by his own Lodge,
King Solomon's No. 260, at San Francisco, on the evening of December 2, 1912.
The loyalty and generous spirit of the brethren of the several
Lodges at San Francisco was beautifully expressed by an exceedingly
large and enthusiastic reception to the Grand Master on the evening
of December 7th in the Scottish Rite Hall. Several thousand Masons
• and their families were present on this delightful occasion, and the
Grand Master was deeply touched by the warm fraternal greeting
of his brethren of his own home City and their evident pleasure at
his elevation to the highest honor in the gift of the brethren of the
State.
An official visit was made to Eden Lodge No. 113, December
14, at San Leandro, and a profitable and enjoyable evening experienced. The Grand Master on this occasion presented the candidate
with an apron which had been presented to the initiate's father some
forty years before by the same Lodge.
On the evening of December 16th 1 was accorded the honor,
by the gracious courtesy of the Worshipful Master, Brother Herman

. .. .

:..

; . . ; ;: : :·~:!'; :· . ·: · _. ; ·::

yv. ~oethij', of.. jnst;illi~g the . of.fice~~ o(~y o~ll ..iods:c, ,King $olomo~ s Lo~~ .No. .260, .;i,n 4 a,fter peifornun~ ·t~~.! . c;ere!#oi)r.J~s'~e!l

~-..R. .~1r '\ -~her~~n a,~ ,9rand_ Chaplain. arid ~W·.·· ·Rtilimei E.
Hartley as Senior Grand Steward. ·
.. · · .·.·.. ' ' ·" '" '" ' : .. ".
•.. On December 21, .19~2~ J convened Grand Lodge )n the :d~; of
N~eda, and at the mv1tat10n of. the Governmerif 'Constructor 1 'd

the, cornerstone of t~!!.: new Post ()ffi1=e . buildiri8'. iir'tii~t Cify;' ' •: ai
On January - 4th . a visit was made ·to Speranza'' ' 1i~lia~~: iod
No. 21~. Gre_a t credit and commendation is. due ou·r· Italian. bre.thr!~
for their zi;al and enthusiasm, which was .evidenced . by the. speeches
of the evenmg.
· · ··
..,.. ·
410,
.
February . Bth, at the invitation of Charter .Rocle ·~~
it was my pleasu.re to be ~resent at the celebratio11 of its. thifd year
as . a __Lodge.. This Lodge 1s doing splendid Masonic ~ork, ·&rtJ· after
a . brief period of three years now' records .a·. membership : of. .
two hundred and fifty.
· .·
. . . :over

No.

?n Febru~ry . 13,_ 1913, I

conv~ned Grand Lodge in th~ City of

Lo~1, an~ by mv1tatton of . the 1'.rustees. laid the cornerstone of the
Union High School, the occasion being made especially irripr~ssive
by the presence of the school children, and also by a large and impo l ·
parade of our brother 'Masons, the Grand Lodge being horioreds ~~
Stockton Commandery No. 8, acting as escort.
:
. One of the pleasantest and most profitable visits was that o·f the
afternoon of the 20th of February to Jewel Lodge No 374 h
"Da_YI'1ght L od ge," wh ere,. at the invitation of the Lodge, ·the Grand
• t e
Off1c~rs conferred the third degree up(>n one of its candidates.·. The
occasion was honored by the presence 'of R:. w:. John D. Murphey
Deputy Gr~nd ~aster, R:. w:. Albert G. Burnett, Junior Grand
Wa~den, V. · W. · Edward C~lema!1, Gra~d Treasurer,
w:. John
"'.'htcher,. Grand Sec~etary,. V . . R .. Edwm A. Sherman, Grand Chaplain~ W. • Ben Levi, Senior Grand Deacon, w:. Fred B Wood
Junior Grand Deacon, w:. Roland E. Hartley, Senior Grand· Steward'.
convened Grand Lodge March 13 1913 at th C"t
f· s
· I Ob"
•
•
e 1y o
an
L ms
1spo, and laid the cornerstone of the new Mason1'c T
I
f Ki
D "d'
emp e
o
ng av1 s Lodge No. 200, which will also serve as the future
home ~f the Chapter of Royal Arch, the Commandery of Knights
Templar, and the Chapter of Eastern Star.
··

v:.

Ofhficdi~l ~isitations were also made to the brethren of the fortysevent. . 1strict at Lemoore on March 24th ·, the forty-s·IXth d"!Strict
·
at V 1saha on the 25th; to the forty-fifth ·district at Dinuba on the
26th; ~o ~he forty-fourth district at ~resno on the 27th; to the fortyfirst district at Merced on the 28th, and to· the forty-second 'district
at Turlock on the 29th. Large and enthusiastic meetings were held
f

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IS

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

at all of these places, notably at Fresno, Visalia and Dinuba. The
third degree was conferred by the Grand Master at Dinuba and Turlock. The Grand Lecturer, Brother Baker, was present at all of these
meetings.
On. the evening of the 3d of April, a very large gathering of the
brethren assembled at Hollister, where the Grand Master conferred
the third degree upon a candidate of San Benito Lodge No. 211,
of that City. Some three hundred of our San Jose brethren were
in attendance on this most pleasant occasion, they making the trip
from San Jose and return by special train.
The following evening, April 4th, the Grand Master conferred
the third degree at Salinas before a large gathering.
District visitations were also made at Paso Robles on April 10th ;
at Guadaloupe on April 11th and at Ventura on April 12th. At the
latter plac~ ·the brethren of the Lodges at Santa Barbara, Oxnard,
Santa Paula and Fillmore were largely in attenda:nce.
On the evening of the 14th April the Grand Master conferred
the sublime degree of Master Mason in his own Lodge,. King Sofo-

m?n's No, 260.
~
A. series of visitations was made the latter part of April and beginning ' of May to our brethren of the southern part of the State,
as follows: To the fifty-seventh Masonic district at Alhambra, April
2ls~; to' the fifty-ninth district at Covina on the 22d; to Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 415, at Los Angeles, on the afternoon of the 23d; to the
sixtieth district at Downey on the evening of the 23d; to the sixtyfi~st district at Watts on the 25th ; to the sixty-second district at Fullerton' o~ the 26th; to Corona Lodge No. 324, at Corona, on the 28th;
to the sixty-third district, at Colton, on the 29th ; to the fifty-eighth
district at Ontario on the 30th. The third degree was conferrCd" by
the Grand Master at Covina, Downey and Watts.
.
.. S~veral of these occasions. w~re made more pleasurable by the
pre~ence of M: . w·:. James A. Foshay, M:. W .' . Oscar Lawler,
M:: W:. Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Masters, and the Inspectors
of the several Masonic districts.
.
..: .
.. I. ,c9nvened
. Grand Lodge on ~fay 1st, 1913, .at El Centro, Imperial county, and dedicated the Masonic Temple of El Centro Lodge
No. 384, conferring the third degree in the evening; and by the
kind ..c;ou.~tesy of w:. Brother John B. Osborn and Brother E . C.
Bangs . of San Diego, was conveyed to San Diego by automobile
the
and over the mountains-a trip which must be
exP,~rjf,ri~~d to be thoroughly appreciated.
.
...On..the even.i~i:t of ).fay 2d. at San Diego, some three hundred
brethren of the sixty-fifth Masonic district received. the' Grand Master in the Masonic Temple of that City. The meeting was ' enthusi-

tht~ugh

des~rt

astic and the spirit of our -great Ord
attendance and the inspiring s
her wfas made ~anifest by the large
pcec es o the evemng
of May 3d 1
·
side'0SnantheD'afternoon
iego County, and laid' theconvened
. Grand L odge at 0 ceanSchool of Oceanside and Carlsbad. cornerstone of the Union High
On May 17th I again convened G d
sonville, and dedicated th
M ran. Lodge at the City of WatN 110
e new
asomc Tempi 0 f P .
o.
, and conferred the thi r d degree m
. the evening
e
aJaro Lodge
evening of May 19th
. . . .
•
0 n thevisit
an official
from M . W • F our JUrtsdictton was honored by
··
••
rankN
MC
di
o the Jurisdiction of
h"
· c an ess, Grand Master
as mgton and a P
1 f .
f
years. The occasion wa
1b
ersona r1end of many
e rateNd by the conferring of the third
degree in King Solomon~s cLode
ge o. 260.
Our brethren of Naval Lod
N
87, ~n the evening of Saturday, May 24th, celebrated the 1~
the Grand Master conferring the r :bird a~ruversary of their Lodge,
Solano Lodge No 229
.
egree. Many brethren of
1
d .
·
were m attendance Th
pro ucttve of great benefit to th
f
.
ese ce ebrations are
as much a's possible.
e era t and should be encouraged

w

f:h

A visit to Burlingame Lod
N
May and an enjoyable eveningge o. 400 ~as made on the 27th of
. .
was experienced
D1st.r1ct meetings were h Id
.
at Petaluma on the 5th . at Se at Lakeport on the 4th of June.
th 12 h
'
onora on the 11th. t S
A
'
e
t ; at Mokelumne Hill on th 1
' a
an ndreas on
G e 3th. The presence of w:.
Brother Chas. A. Adams p
G
•
•
' ast rand Orator a d
Brother Tho J B k
' n our rand Lectu rer, V ..
and success of these visitati~~s." a er, added much to the enjoyment

w..

I convened Grand Lodge on the aft
and laid the 'c ornerstone . of the Hi h Sernoon of the ' 14th of June
Sutter Creek.
·
g
chool of Amador county at
. J u.~e 20th I convened Grand Lod e
.
laid the cornerstone of th
M g • at the. City of Anaheim and
,
e new
asomc Temple of Anaheim Lodge
No. 207.
. The generous a.n d enthusiastic s .•
City of Los Angeles was e "d
d pint of our brethren of the
v1 ence by '
· 1 d"d
G
a sp en I reception to the
rand Master and his wife on th
celebration of St. John's d
S e evening of the 21st of June in
families were in attendancaey.
ome five thousand Masons and their
•
• among · whom wer
f ·
emtnent brethren of the south
e many o our most
ern . part of the State. The Grand
Master was presented on th"
·h
is occasion by u ·
·
,
wit the gavel used at the sixty-third'. Arln . ~1vCers1ty L?dg~ No. 394,
Grand Lodge and in the ceremomes
,
. . . of hts
~a mstallat1"0
• ommumcat1on
, of the
n thereat.

GRAND LODGE OF CAuFORNIA

Grand Lodge was conveneq :by me at Santa Barbara and the
~~~nerstone of the Government postoffice building w;is laid June
27th. ·A reception to the Grand Master was tendered in ·the evening
by· i:?anta Barbara Lodge No. 192 and Magnolia Lodge No. 242.
Fairmount Lodge U. D., at San Francisco, was visited June
24th, the Grand Master conferring the third degree. This Lodge,
working but a few months under dispensation, manifests a splendid
spirit arid is doing true Masonic work. .
'
Imbued with the . thought that our generous brethren . of the
Hawaiian Islands deserved every consideration possible for our Grand
Lodge to extend to them, I left San Francisco with our Grand Lecturer, Brother Baker, and Brother H. G. Ilderton of Oak Grove
Lodge No. 115, on July 2d, arriving at Honolulu July 8th. The
warm and balmy climate of our beautiful Island possessions seems
to be transmitted to the fervent fraternal hearts of our Masonic
brethren in this delightful part of our jurisdiction. We visited
Kilauea Lodge No. 330 at Hilo, on the Island of Hawaii, on the
evening of July 10th, and found abundant evidence of Masonic
zeal and enthusiasm. The brethren there have erected one of the
finest Masonic Temples of the entire jurisdiction. On Monday evening
of July 14th, at the Masonic Temple of Honolulu, a reception was
tendered the Grand Master and the brethren above mentioned, by
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, Oceanic No. 371 and Honolulu No. 400,
and the following evening a sumptuous dinner was enjoyed at the
Country Club with the Past Masters and Officers of those three
Lodges.
Durant Lodge No. 268 was visited on the evening of A1,1gust
7th, the Grand Master conferring the. degree of Master Mason.
From August 18th to the 30th some of the beauties and grandeur
of the great timber and agricultural portions of our State were enjoyed in company with Brother. Baker and M.". w:. George M.
Perine, Past Grand Master.
Visitations were made to the Lodges at Fort Bragg, Willits,
Eureka, Crescent City, Yreka, Dunsmuir, Redding, Willows and Arbuckle. District meetings were held at all of these towns.
On the evening of September 1st the Grand Master was accorded
the pleasure of conferring the third degree upon a candidate in the
new Masonic Temple at San Francisco. This was the first Masonic
degree conferred in the Temple, and the Grand Master was accorded
this privilege through the generous courtesy of Hermann Lodge
No. 127.
Visits were also made to California Lodge No. 1 on September
4th, and to Mission Lodge No. 169 on September 6th.

A visit was ma?e Monday evening, September 22d, to Plumas·
Lodge No. 60 at Qumcy, and on the 23d to Oroville Lodge No. 103
at Oroville. Large and .enthusiastic . meetings were held at each of
these places, and entertainment was kindly arranged for the G d
·· · ·
ran
Master and Grand Lecturer. .

•

Our generous and warm hearted brethren of La Parfaite Union
No. 17 receiv~d the. Grand Master on the evening of Saturday, Sept~mber 27th, III t~e1r Lodge room in the new Temple in San Fran-'
Cisco, and exempl~fied the first degree in their own inimitable manner.
. The Grand ~a.~ter had the distinguished honor of conferring the
third de~ree of ~sonry in Union Lodge No. 58, at Sacramento, on
the evening of September 27th, and I was advised that this honor·
had not befc;ire fallen to the lot of any Grand Master The In
t :
f h B· ·
.
·
spec ors
o t e ay counties ablr filled the stations. The m_eeting was largely
attended and the . o·ccas1on was graced by the presence of R.". W:.
Albert G. Burnett, Jtinior Grand Warden, and v:. w:. Thomas
·
]. Baker, Grand·' Lecturer.
·The last event· t? r~u~d '!P..the w_ork of' the year''\yas a rec tion
and banquet t~nde,t~d . ~.9e'."br~rid '.·Master' li,r 'king &ipmon's :;:,d ·.:
No. _260, at the Scottisfi . Rite Temple at Sali°'Francisco; on Saturd:;
e~ptmg, October 4th. Two hundred and fifty of the l:irethren were·
P~esent and the most substantia1 testimony of the loyalty and devotion
of the members w:~s ..-e~pre.ssed to the. Grand Master of the Grand
•
. 1
Lodge of California.
•
1

I desire to acknowledge obligations to Brothers Ge0rg· · M ··p ··' • 1 .;
Albe t G B
d J
e . erme,
r
· urnett an
oseplf R Place fof ·convening Grand ·Lodge
as follows:
On .March 2?• 1913, M;'': ''!":~ Geor~e M~ Perine convened Grand
Lodge m t?e. C1~y of. \1\7a~O':!\'ille and_' laid the c::ornerstorte of the
new Masonic Temple of Pa)flro Lodge :N'o. 110.

R:. w:·. . ~b~.tf ·B~niett, Junio.r Crind Warden: on .April
12, 1913, convened Grand Lodge· at the. ,to;wn of Galt, Sacramento
county, and laid the ~omerst?~~· of the. Vnion High S~hool.
On December 28, 1912, W.\ ]05eph E . . Place conv.ened Grand
Lodge at Los Banos and laid the cornerstone of the n~~ Masonic
Temple of Los Banos Lodge No. 312.

G.

1
I ! 1

I

CO'M:MiNDATION's '.'

I.,.~~sir~ _tq

,..

c,o!!'m~~~ ~he . ~P~k o! . the , Ins~ctor$ of th.c Bay

COUntie~ who have •qUft~ ; freq}Jerjtly, d~ring the past year Qr two,
~xc;mph~e~,~~1e . se!eral: ·~egr~~$, of, ~,asoriry for the benefi~ qf Lodges
I

m other d1str1cts. It was my pleasure and privilege to be with them

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

on several occasions, and their spl~ndid work has been of inestimable
benefit and duly appreciated by the Craft.
It is the duty of the Inspe~or to report the condition of the
Lo~s of his district on the !st day of September of each year. I
suggest that such date be changed to July . 1st for the reason that
the Grand Master is more busily engaged during the . months of
September and October than at any other time of ii1~· year, and
can not give proper attention to the many suggestions contained in
the Inspectors' reports.
I also desire at this time to extend my sincere thanks to all
the brethren of our jurisdiction with whom I have come in contact during my term of office, individually and collectively. Wherever I have traveled throughout our great jurisdiction, from its
northern to its southern boundary, from its mountain sides to the
Pacific Ocean and the islands of the sea, I was received with such
eviden~ of kindness as rendered every duty a pleasure.
Especially, however, do I acknowledge a debt of gratitude to our
most efficient Grand Secretary, Brother Whicher, whose invaluable
advice and assistance have been freely and generously given. And
to Brother Harry Johnson for many courtesies, and also to Brothers
Angellotti, and Patton, whose able assistance has also been unselfishly
extended to me.

June 7, 1913, Lancaster Lodge, at Lancaster, Los Angeles county ;
June 19, 1913, Germania Lodge, at Los Angeles;
July 26, 1913, Tyrian Lodge, at Manteca, San Joaquin county.
Also, under date of October 3, 1913, to Standard Lodge, . at
Oakland, the dispensation to continue until September 30, 1914.

66

LODGES . CONSTITUTtD.

Within sixty days after charters were granted to them at the
last annual communication, I duly and in ancient fofm constituted the
following Lodges:
York No. 423, at Watts, Los Angeles -county;
Exeter No. 424, at Exeter, Tulare county;
Holtville No. 425, at Holtville, Imperial count)'.;
' ..
Midway No. 426, at Taft, .Kern county;
Chino Valley No. 427, at .Chino, San Bernardino county;
San Dimas No. 428, at San Dimas, Los Angeles county;
' Pittsburg No. 429, at Pittsburg, Contra Costa county;
·"'?'
McCloud No. 430, at McCloud, Siskiyou county;
Alpha No. 431, at Richmond, Contra Costa county;
Roseville No. 432, at Roseville, J:>laccr county.
NEW uinGi:S.

Dispensations to form ~~w Lodges have by my order been issued
as follows:
February 6, 1913, Maricopa Lodge, at Maricopa, Kern county;
March 4, 1913,· Fairmount Lodge, at San Francisco;
May 6, 1913, Claremont Lodge, at Claremont, Los·. Angeles county;

..

67

SPECI-'\L DISPENSATIONS.

The list will be found in the report of the Grand Secretary.
MASONIC HOMJ!S.

I am pleased to report that, through the indefatigable efforts
of the Trustees, the Home at Decoto is now in better condition than ever
before. Last year the Trustees reported: "We have suffered with
others from the dry season, and practically from the first of June
we have been without water in our reservoirs. All toilets, bathtubs, wash basins, faucets, except in the kitchen have been shut off
and it has been necessary to haul wate~ for all'household puri)oses:•;
Another dry year accentuated this deplorable condition, and. this
Home faced a most serious state of affairs, that of a water famine.
• The expected development of the springs had failed; the test l>Orinrs
on the fiat near the barns produced no results, and it was."again
necessary to resort to hauling water a considerable distance. · The
buildings were again without protection from fire and the · i~ates
were necessarily required to use water in scant quantity, and "'t he
flowers, shrubbery and garden suffered accordingly. But· 'without
losing faith, the Trustees actively continued the search for ~at~r
and in February their efforts were splendidly rewarded with an abun~
dant supply, secured by boring on the lower fiat near the county
road. A pumping test was made and one hnndred and ninety gallons of water per minute was pumped without any diminntion .in
quantity. This most · satisfactory result encouraged the Board .. to
install a pumping plant affording adequate faciljtics,, not only · for
present, but for future need$. All this necessitated aJJ expense .of
some $3000.00 more than the appropriation of $5CXX>.OO. yoted by tJic
Grand Lodge at its last Annual Communication, . an"d" this expense
I approved in conformity with the resolution passed at that · session.
There is now an abundance of that most necessary element of our
daily needs which, flowing so copiously after two or three ·dry · seasons, insures e'vcn· increased supply ·in -the years to come-.
Owing to the present crowded condi.tion of the quarters of · the
inmates and the necessity of providing additional rooms for the
constantly increasing number of applicants, the Grand Lodge, at ·its
last Annual Communication, levied an additional tax on the subordinate
Lodges for the purpose of erecting permanent buildi11gs, and ' not-

69

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~ROC:llIEDiNGS OF THE

68

withsfindin~: die fact that' inuch of thee first year's levy was us.ed to
pay for the buildings . {or the new laundry and heating plants, I 'u rged
the T-rustees to proceed · as rapidly as. p0ssibie · with the plans" and
new dormitory. I am pleased to report that this
construction: ot
work ·is
urider. way. .
. .
.
. .
• ;· .

a

well

On the afternoon of May 24th I was privileged to confer, in
the Simonoff Temple, under -the kind auspices of Brooklyn Lodge
No. 225, the ' third. degree of ·Masonry for the· benefit of · our· older
brethren of the Home. In this I was assisted by . our Grand Lecw:. Thomas J. Baker, an~ the Inspectors of the Bay
turer,
counties.
· t~
-lit. }..pri.l ..I visited. th~ Horne ' at S.an Gabriel .and found most
"sa~is{~~toiY conditi.ons at th~s Home. lt is always a sight to gladden
the heart fo see the bright, . intelligent · faces of the girls and boys
'o f ttiat i~$titutiqn, sul,"rounded by their beautiful environment, under
tlie dir.ect in(luence of tho~e splepdidly fitted by_ nature . arid education •iO care· fo.r am\ train the plasti.c minds of the young . people. over
·
·
whom.we
.
. have
. assumed control. .· ..
. T&e craft in gene.rat is to be highly congratulated that it ha!i,
at .the: present ti1,1le,. a .Bqard .o f Trustees so thoroughly fitted ··for.
the im.pottan.t .work intrusted to them. I have ·p,een present at several meetings . of'tbe Board and have been impressed with the earnestness, the zeal and the high competency of. the members, and .. in. my
opirilon, too much credit · and commendation can . not be .extended to
these. brethren who .are so unselfishly. giving . th~ir best thought and
effort and v.e ry much of ·their time to this . no~le work.

v:.

..

..

.

GRAND LODGE OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS,.

,.

On the 21st day of ·necember, 1912, I received a · cablegram from
W. ·• Brother Eugene H. Stafford, Past Master of Manila Lodge
No: 342;'to the ·effect · that the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands
had ·been organized: This information was further substantiattd' by
the following letter from its Grand Secretary :

Mr. iohri . Wh.ich~;, .Sa~ Francisco, Cal. :
Dear Sir and. Brother :
,,.,,., 1•
You·- are probably. aware before this that w~ have organized and
opened ·a Grand l,odge for- the Philippine Islands-, as- a ·cablegram was
sent to your -M' ·. W. •. Grand Master on• December 20, 1912, advising
him of the s.ame. We had ..\:loped to receive our Proceedings..from
the printer long before.th.is, but as we do not have the .faciHties x;,1'ich
you _have !~ti the .~tates, . we ltl!.veJ~ad to wa~t with· pa.1Jence.. lt~i$
that .the d>rint~d Pi:qcee4ings -will be . ready within the next, week.. or
so, aud as !\OQll. . as r.eceived we .!;ball forward . ~.. cqpy to you with a
•

'

.. , , .

M

•

(Signed).

AMOS G..BELLIS,
GraD,d Secretary.

.Subseq.1:1ently we ~ere .honored ~Y a visit from Brother Stafford in
April, 3;11d .by .~rothe~, Bel~is in May, These brethren informed me
tof certa1p.· copd1t1ons
h ·
· that had· developed
· .. wh
. . ich made it h. ighl.Y necessary
0 or~i;iiz.e t e1r own (;rand, Lodge, in ,9rder,.,to maintain in the Islands
the. high stanclard Masonry should hold. ·
·
' ·
'
. Several jurisd.ictipns in the United Stilies have already recognized
this Gr~nd Lodge; many others, not only in the Up.ited States, but in
Australia and elsewhere, have withheld recognition until such action is
taken by the Grand Lodge qf California.
For the. ~~asoO: a.~~:ve ;st~ted and f~r the further ' r.e~son th:t th~
Islands a~e so far removed from us . as to render proper administration
of Lodge matters extren'iely ·difficult, r recommend the · recognition of
the Grand Lodge of the · Philippine Islands by this Grand Lodge~ ·

th~· 25th

R:ELIJlF , TO OHIO FLOOD SUFF!lRill!.S.

On
day of March; while visiting the Lodges of the ;ower
San !oaqum Valley, the daily newspapers reported the w'idcspread '. dev~tatron.- and dea~h caused by the ·floods of the Oliio and Mississippi
rivers,· and I: .received a telegram from Brother Whicher asking whether
he should offer assista~ce . to the Masons ·of Ohio. I . wired the Grand
S~cretary to. ten4er as~1stance. • The following day, reports of the situ•
at1on .b~commg more. mtense and i~ediate relief seeming necessary,
~~ ~1v1~ly r.emembermg our own terrible calamity in San Francisco and
vtcimty m 1906, I again. wired the Grand Secretary to telegraph ~5000 00
to.the Grand ~Master .of Ohio and also requested Bro. Whicher to c~ll
~~n. the vanous .. Lodges of . our jurisdiction for assistance through
mdtv1dual and other subscriptions.
.
. .. . .
·
actiori
also · suggested and urged by
W:. Motle;
H. Flint, Past. Grand Master, who evidently had 1n mind · his own
, .
splendid relief work when Grand Master in 1906.
'fne Lodge~· ~ndr'f~dividual brethren responded quickly and ~en­
~rously ·~nd ·' w1tfnn thirty days remitted to Brother Whicher sums
aggregating · $9500.70.
' · r

T~is

~ was

M."~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

70

71

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Accepte~

A few weeks later, in response to a circular letter from the
Grand Secretary of Illinois, calling for assistance, $1000.00 was dispatched to the Grand Master of that jurisdiction for the sufferers
in that State.
Assistance was also tendered to our brethren in the flood districts of Indiana, but the Grand Master of that jurisdiction responded
that happily they were able to care for all their distresses without
outside aid.
Our brethren of Ohio and · Illinois gave ample and abundant
evidence of their gratitude by fervent and thankful letters from
their Grand Masters.
It is proper to state here that the most generous subscriptions
for this relief were made by our zealous and warm hearted brethren
of the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 cabled $1000.00;
Honolulu Lodge No. 409, $250.00, and Oceanic Lodge No. 371, $200.00;
all of these contributions being received by the Grand Master before
his letters, calling upon our brethren for assistance, reached the
Lodges of the Islands.
R!;QUEST Of GRAND LODGE OF OREGON TO BOLD CENTRAL REPRESENTATIVE
MASONIC BODY IN CITY OF SAN :t'RANCISCO IN

1915.

The following circular letter has been received from M:. w:.
George H. Burnett, Grand Master of the State of Oregon:
"Portland, Oregon, June 23, 1913.
"The following Resolution was introduced at the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge A F. and A. M. of Oregon on June
13, 1913, and adopted~
"Be It Resolved, by the Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Oregon, ·in its sixty~third Annual
Communication assembled, that some central representative Masonic
body should be formed, to be composed of three delegates from each
of at least a majority of all the Masonic Grand Lodges in the United
States and British North America, with authority to enact laws and
take measures binding upon the various Grand Jurisdictions par"
ticipating and· not · inconsistent with the Ancient Charges and Land~
marks of· Freemasonry, for the purpose of promoting friendship,
morality and brotherly love, together with uniformity of laws and
ritualistic work among English-speaking Masons on this continent.
"And Be It Further Resolved, that the first 'Monday in September, A. D. 1915, A. L. 5915, at the City of San Francisco, in the State
of California, be and is hereby suggested as the time and place of
meeting of such delegates to consider and act upon the subject matter
of these resolutions, and that the Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and

Masons of California be and is hereby specially requested
place of meeting for such assembly and to give its aderence to the general purpose hereinafter expressed
. "And Be It Further Resolved, that the Grand M~ster be and he
ts hereby requested to use all honorable means at his
d
effect s ch
· ·
comman to
u an orgamzat1on, and to that end he and the Grand Secretary b~ and they are hereby instructed to forward a copy of these
reso.1ut1ons to every Grand Lodge within the scope of the ro sal
with the invitation of this Grand Lodge
poar
ttctpate m the co~templated work and to send delegates for that Pur~
pose to the appointed meeting.
P
"Fraternally,
~o provide a

'

~e~em ~xpressed,

~o

(SE~L)

"GEO. H . BURNETT
"Grand M~ster.
"Attest: JAS. F. ROBINSON, Grand Secretary."
Several ~eetings. of this character have been held in recent years
notably that m Baltimore in 1909, which was attended b M . W .'
Oscar
and the late M:. w:. W. Frank Pier:C.
~uc~ i:neett~g was held in May of this year in Indianapolis, called
Y · • w. · El~er F. Gay, Grand Master of Indiana. My own work
for the year havmg been previously laid out, time would not permit
~Y. attendance at this meeting, to which as Grand M t
mv1ted.
•
as er, I was

La~ler,

A~oth~;

~ have not learned, what, if anything, was accomplished at these
meetings. ~ut it would seem that much good might obtaln toward
the promot1~n of fr~endship and better understanding between the
several Enghsh-spcakmg jurisdictions, . especially in the United States
a~d Canada; ·~nd .al~o toward the establishing of greater uniformity
q aws and ntuahst1c .work . and in the matter of general reco 'f
of other jurisdictions.
gm ton

1

. The .Grand. Lodge °.f Or:ell'on, has honored the City of San Francisco
ti t as ·its choice for this proposed
. meeting• and I heart1'lY recommend
ta h arrange~ents be made to ·provide a suitable meeting place for
sue convention ; that this Grand Lodge give its adherence to th
e':pressed in the circular letter, and that the
general
todge of Cahfornta be represented at that convention by ·its Grand
aster or some brother or brethren chosen by the Grand Master.

purpo~e

GEORGE

WASHINGTON

Gran~

MASONIC

MEMORIAL

ASSOCIATION.

An invitation was extended to me to be present at th third
of the George Washington Masonic
Annual.
Memorial Assoc1at1on, held in the City of Washington in the mont'1

Conven~io~

~ational

GRA~D .LOI;>GID .OF· -CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

72

·of February of this year, but on account of pressing work at home
I was unable to 'attend. The minutes of this meeting, however, have
been received and they indicate much progress and . considerable enthusiasm. The purpose is a most laudable one and we wish the
brethren engaged in this 'u ndertaking the splendid success they deserve.

73

to the completion of the construction of a Masonic Temple in that City.
I replied that under our own law, our Lodges were . prohibited from .
~oliciting pecuniary assistance, by circular or otherwise, from Lodges
or Masons of this or 0th.er jurisdictions, and that they should . not
vote moneys from their funds upon the application of Lodges of for.
eign jurisdictions unless specially sanctioned by our Grand Lodge.

MASONJC . Rl!Lil!F ASSOCIATION OJ.' UNITl!D STATl!S AND CANADA.

This Association is doing a work · wide in its character . and scope,
which should ' receiv.e universal col11!,lleq~at~on and support. Many
of those ·vexed questions, especially of relief, which haye caused some
of our Eastern jurisdictions to endeavor · to hold conventions of Gtand
Masters and reprcse~tatives o~ ?rand Lodges, ~re being cons~dc~cd
by the Ma.sonic Relief Assoc1atton, and splendid results are· · bemg
accomplished.··
,
).

Rl!PRODUCTION OF PORTRAITS OF PAST GRAND MASTl!RS Dl!STROYl!D
IN FIR£ QF 1906,: . . .
I( -J '

Each' rcd1itit~g ·Annual Com~~leatlqn 'Of o?Jr G~lin<f'·~odge ~,.
calls with sorrow the destrtitt~~n ·6.f ~~~~i!?rlta~fof 'o~.~ hOrtored Past:
Grand Masters in the fire or ·. l~. · ~\V«: 'were ,'\vdnt to look u~n
their faces many of them ·Ionjf since departed, with tender and fovmg
remcntbrattce; arid as we· looked, the ·scenes of the ·days t.ha~ arc
past came ag~in ' fo us in happy reView.
·
..
Many of our brethren have expressed the desire that those o'Id
paintings be 'teproduced; and I recommend tfl~t. some a~t.i,~n b~ taken
at thiS Communication toward that end. If this· recom~en~atlon ~
favored by die Grand LOdg'c, the reproduction .of ~hc~e fa.~ntmgs may,
perhaps, cover a period of several year.s, dunng which time! several
portraits may be made each year; coi»mencing, preferably, . "'.'1th. those
Past Grand Masters whom we are so fortuttAte as to have with us
stitl.
..

.
!

.

COMMUNICATIONS.
·, .

' ~ t.

, A circular. of general <:irculation, but ;relating to this .Gr.aP.4· Lod~e,
has been receiv.ed from the .Grand .Lodge. of Massachusett• 1,relative
to a .matter o.f jurisdiction .of an .affiliate. , I suggc5t, that thi~~mmuni-.
cation be referr.e cLto the Committee on Jurisprudc~.
· •
I
Commtinications- -have ·been···rtteived 'from · the • Grand Lodgt·•-Of
Porto Rico and the Grand Lodge of Italy, requesting fraternal recognition .b y ,,t his, Grand ~£. These requests .have been.· referred
to . ~~e ,Gpn,t~iftce on ~pr~~s~~d~?c~: .

.,

..

. .

r.

Se:o.:~ral C9P'Jl1Pn\catiqlllt,,~~e r.e~!ved fr~m our subor4JJ?~te ~~
relati.ve ,to, '°"ci~l;lll.ar, '.. lett~r: .re~ved, ~\~Y ;; them from ..Lpdge No~, 7~;:1>.f

p~~ce~ Porto Rico, requesting donations for the purpose of applying

·. GntMANIA LODGI!.

A Petition has been received from a number of brethren in the
City of Los Angeles to organize a Lodge in that city to be called
Germania Lodge. . The petition requested that the dispensation be
granted to work in the German language. Construing the intent of
our Constitution in regard to the organization of new Lodges to
refer to Lodges working in the English language only, I refused to
grant a dispensation to work in the German language, but I issued
a dispensation to work in English, and their petition for a charter
will be presented at this communication. I see no objection to this
Grand Lodge granting a dispensation or charter to work in the
German language if it is deemed expedient to do so.
An application has been received from Burlingame Lodge No.
400, in accordance and in compliance with section 92a of the Constitution, requesting the Grand Lodge to pass a resolution enlarging
its jurisdiction to include a part of the corporate limits of the town
of San Mateo. At the present time each of these Lodges has exclusive jurisdiction over the corporate limits of their respectivie
towns, and the Grand Master deems it inadvisable to make any
change which would cause one Lodge to encroach upon and include
part of the _c orporate limits of another town, and refuses to recommepd the passage of such a re~olution by this Grand Lodge.
CLANDl!STINt .AND FAKt MASONRY.

While irregular and clandestine bodies of so called Masons still
continue to organize and make fitful endeavors to keep alive, such
bodies do no harm to our Craft in general except that, in order to
maintain their existence, dissolute characters are admitted to their
ranks who parade the square and compass, much to the disgust of
regular Masons. Such persons often fleece the unwary, either by
inducing them to pay a fee for their fake goods, or by a talc of
distress accompanied with a request for relief.
In October of last year an organizer for the "American Federation of Masons" named Kay was arrested in Oakland and charged
with obtaining money under false .pretenses. One Wm. C. Cavitt,
styled "Grand Master of the American Federation of Masons for
the District Grand Lodge of California," defended Kay in the Police

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

74

Court and stayed proceedings until February, 1913, when it was
tried by a jury which disagreed. The case was retried again in
April by a jury, which found the defendant guilty, and the Court
sentenced him to jail for six months. Cavitt appealed the case, and
we are informed that the Superior Court affirmed the sentence of
the lower court.
In July, 1913, a young man pretending to be deaf and dumb was
arrested by police officers in San Francisco, charged with begging
on the streets by handing out to passers-by slips of paper stating
thereon that he was a Mason and a member of Livingston Lodge
No. 32, Montana. Officers took the culprit to the office of Grand
Secretary, where he soon began to talk. A complaint was lodged
against . him for illegally wearing the insignia of a Mason (he wore
a pin having square and compasses in the buttonhole of his coat),
and on conviction in Police Court was given six months in the county
jail. Name of imposter was given as Frank Marion. It was shown
that he had served three terms in the penitentiary.
One of the most notorious and persistent Masonic frauds who
ever operated in America is George E. Holt, who has renounced his
clandestine work and publicly confessed his sins. The following from
the ''Trestle Board," a Masonic publication of San Francisco of date
March, 1913, fully explains the history of his operations here and
the punishment meted out to him :
The Trestle Board, in its February number, reported the conviction of George E. Holt, degree peddler, who has been operating in
San Francisco for the past five years (with. the exception · of one
year, which he served in a Massachusetts jail) of obtaining money
under false pretenses. The prosecuting witness in the case was
Howard E. Murray, upon whom Holt had, for a consideration of $20,
conferred the title of "Right Worshipful," and to whom he represented that the "degrees" which he conferred entitled the recipient to
the privilege of visiting in "any" Lodge of A. F. & A. M. outside , the
State of California." The prisoner pleaded guilty and offered a prayer
for prpbation, confessing his fraudulent practices, acknowledging that
he is not a member of any regularly constituted Lodge of Masons,
and that he is not authorized to confer Masonic degrees, and prom- '
ising if given a chance to support his wife and children, to never '
engage in any business pertaining to Masonry. He furthermore delivered all his printed matter and paraphernalia to the Court for destruction.
The remarks of •the Court, the Hon. John J .. Sullivan, addressed to
They make ,
gooii reading : ,
d~fendant in response to the • prayer, 1 are given below.
..

•

•I

'!

75

"This is one of the most. vicious forms of obtaining money by
false pretenses. It is bad enough to v1ctim1ze a man out of his money ·
b~t. when in addition to tnat you hold him up to the contempt and
r1d1cule of the whole community, it is a thousand times worse.
Think of a man who really believing himself to be a bona fide member of the Masonic Order gomg around wearmg the insignia of
that Order, he then becomes the laughing stock of Masons and the
general public, who know that he is only a spurious Mason-when
he is in fact not a member of it. This complainant actually ·believed
the representations made by you to him, that not only was he invested with the proper degrees of Masonry, but that you had authority to make him an agent to ·go out in the byways and confer degrees in your name-and you took his money not only for these
spur~ous ~egrees, but, not satisfied with that, you took more money for
makmg him an agent. A man that parts with his money believing the
story you tell is imbued with the idea that the organization he
seeks to join is well worth joining, and desiring to identify himself
with it and acting upon the representations you make to him believes in good faith he has become a legitimate member of the
Masonic fraternity. And what does he really get? Nothing but ridicule and contempt of the members of that Order and all good citizens.
It i~ one. of the most pernicious forms of crime brought to my attention smce I have been on the police bench, and I will do my utmost to stop it, not only with the Masons, but the Elks, Eagles or
any other legitimate organization.
'
"If it were not for the fact that you have a wife and three small
children, and also that special counsel for the people, Mr. Henry M.
Owens, who I understand is a member of the Masonic Order, and
who requests that you be put on probation with the understanding that
you shall not engag~ in that line of business, and further . that you .
turn ?ver to Mr. Nicholl, the probation officer, all the paraphernalia
now m your possession, I would have no qualms of conscience in
sending you to jail. A man that has had the experience you had
of ten months in jail in Massachusetts, where you are said to have
engaged in illegitimate Masonry, and resorts to this kind of business
k ,entitled to no clemency whatever.
'
"Counsel for the people has said here in Court that the Masons
of this city do not desire to see your family suff~r, but I . am not
sure that your family would not be better off without you. I will
continue this case for one week, and meantime you may be released
from custody and in charge of the probation officer. If by that time
you show . an honest disposition to regenerate and go to work as
an honest man, I w.ill further consider your case."
·
The recommendation of . probation made by Special Counsel Henry
M. Owens was believed to represent the attitude of the Masonic Fra-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

76
..

ternity of San Francisco. Ten of Holt's victims, however, took a
the situation not quite so charitable,, a~d addresse!f a !.'.etiview ti6n to the Court, objectfog to the admission of the t>risone!._ t~ probatio~; and. the Court; in view of the fact that each of the ..ten objectors would be entitled to prosecute;. a ~imilar case a,gamst the
prisoner with a certainty of conviction, de_cided to gra~t the prayer,
and pronounced sentence of six months' confinement m ~he Co~.nty
j~L
.
Holt's Lodge, "'Mizpah· No. 81," has seen . a great light. in the
exposure and .c.onviction of its organizer _a nd has given up the ghost,
its memb~rs having voted to surrender its alleged charter to the alleged Grand LOdge, A. F. & A. M., of Ohio, _and adjourned sine die.

of

DtCISIONS.

During the past year the correspondence of the Grand Master ·
has been voluminous and many hours each day have been consumed
by a stenographer and typist, notwithstanding the fact that much
of the work has been handled by the Grand Secretary's office.
Questions of policy and of interpretation . of Masonic law a~e
of almost daily occurrence and it is to the credit of our Masomc
brethren that very few inquiries have been of a frivolous nature;
indeed in nearly all instances the questions asked indicate an earnest
desire' on the part of the brethren to conform to the Constitution in
every particular.
Although many rulings have been made during the year, there
are but seven that I deem of sufficient importance to report. They
are as follows:
t. The question was asked whether it is . a violation of ?ur
. Masonic law to print the names of candidates on postal card notices
sent to Lodge members informing them of the time of special meeting for the conferring of the degree.
Under section 77L of the Constitution it is unlawful to pu?lis~
the names of applicants for degrees in a printed folder, and if tt
is a violation of our law to publish names of candidates for the
degrees in a printed folder, it is also wrong to print them ?n postal
cards, and I ruled against the printing of names of candidates or
applicants on postal card notices, folders or cards.
2. The fee of an applicant does not become a part of the reve~ue
of the Lodge until the applicant is elected by the Lodge to rece1v.e
the degrees. From the time the fee is received by the Lodge until
such time as the applicant is elected or rejected the Lodge holds
such fee in trust and in case of rejection must stand ready to return
the fee to the applicant, and that in computing the ten per cent "for

77

purposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse"
the fees of rejected applicants should be deducted.
3. A Lodge has the right to collect additional dues from a
brother who paid his dues in advance for a year and received a
receipt for dues to December 31st, the Lodge on May 1st having
increased the dues from six dollars to nine dollars per annum.
"The brother, although in possession of a receipt for dues for
a full year, should pay the increase from the time such increase of
dues took effect in the Lodge. The increase affected all the brethren
and although the Lodge, in good faith, issued a receipt for dues
for a year for the amount then in force, and the Lodge, during
that year, increased the dues of its members, the brother should pay
the increase just the same as other brethren who did not pay in
advance.
4. "The son of a Master Mason, after he has passed the age
of majority, or the sister or mother of a Master Mason is not entitled
as a matter of right, to Masonic charity, but certain conditions may
prevail where such son, sister or mother, being helpless and incompetent to sustain themselves, and dependent upon the brother for
support, and the brother being unable to extend relief to them, the
Lodge may, by extending relief to the son, sister or mother, relieve
the brother himself.
5. Question-An Entered Apprentice Mason from a foreign Lodge
presents a dimit and asks to be elected and advanced.
What procedure is to be followed and is any consent from the
Foreign Lodge necessary?
"If the paper possessed by the E. A emanates from a Lodge
under the jurisdiction of any Grand Body recognized as legitimate
by this Grand Lodge, and is in the form of a dimit, it may be
accepted as the official consent of such Lodge to the advancement
of the E. A. by any other Lodge ( sec. 113 Const.) and the waiver
of jurisdiction of such Lodge referred to in the last paragraph of
sec. 155, Const. and no other official consent from the Foreign Lodge
is necessary to enable your Lodge to receive his application for the
remaining degrees.
"The procedure to be followed in such a case is declared by the
last paragraph of section 155, Const. and of course includes payment
of fees, reference of application to a committee, report of committee
and election by the Lodge.
"Before receiving the application, the Master should of course
satisfy himself that the applicant is the person referred to in the
so-called dimit, and that he has in fact received the degree indicated
therein."
5

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

78

.
ld not be advanced until
"If the applicant is elected he shouS
112 Const. 1911 ; and
as to his proficiency undelr t" ei:- hav'e the applicant inexamination
. ht after e ec ion,
d"
to that end the Master mig '
. f h had received the prece mg
. ,,
d . th same manner as 1 e
structe m
e
. h Lod e in this jurisdiction.
degree or degrees m t e
g
M
. Lodg. e is in the nature
. .
sented by a asomc
h .
6. A Masomc pm pre . .
hibits Lodges from using t eir
of a present and our Constttu~ion pr~ring officers or distinguished
funds to purchase presents o\/e t do so for new members.
brethren, and therefor they sho~ noth ten per cent of its income,
7 Can a Lodge withdraw rom te~tainment purposes, a sum of
as aliowed by the Grand Lo~ge for hen
chase of a jewel or other
. h is to be apphed to t e pur
money wh ic
ff . to a retiring Master?
o ermg
. . .
. 1 .
of Section 88a.
No, because it is m vio ation
d to purchase presents for re"That the funds can_ n.ot ~e use brethren or to purchase their
-tirmg
. .
offi"cers or for distinguished
portraits."
R£COMMEND£D A

:!lENDMtNTS TO CONSTITUTION.

•

.

·

·

.
. n 78 of the Constitution it is
By a strict construction of sedctio ting of a Lodge on the day
"bl
h ld the state mee
made imposs1 e to .0
is a legal holiday.
fixed in the by-laws if such day.
. ht falls on a legal holiday the
day without any notice.
By that section if the meeting nbig .
.
. o be held on the next usmess
meeting is t
.
.
d es where the hall is occupied by
d I ould recommend that
This works a hardship on. Lo g
th next business day an
w .
d
another body on ~ d b triking out the following wor s :
y s "d
the next business day at the
section 78 be amen e
"Or if that be a legal hob ay, on . "
. h t ny further notice.
of the Constitution
hour so fixed wit ou a
.
n amendment to section 137
I also sugges t a
d
" f
h
rfications of War ens.
relating to t e qua 1 .
.
I
ld append the following:
I
At the end of this section
wouh certificate within sixty days
any Warden-elect fail to p~ocure sue be upon a satisfactory showof election or such further tim~ as ma~is ~lection shall be invalidated
ing, be granted by the <?ran~ aste~ hold an election for the place
and a special dispensation issued t th t the Warden elected under
. · 1y e1ect ed
of such War d en, prov ided' however, ha had been previous
such dispensation shall not ~e t~e one w o
and who had failed to qualify.
coNDITJON OF 'l'Ht CRAFT.

mbership in California was 12,597; in
In the year 1881 the me
d ow but ten years later, its
mark was passed, an n '
1903 t h e 25 •000

membership has reached the grand total of over 50,000 Master Masons,
the Order having gained, in the last ten years, as many members as
it recorded after the first fifty-three years of its existence. This
rapid increase, however, I believe has been consistent and in harmony with the splendid growth of our State and does not in any
manner indicate that our Lodges are not exercising proper care
in the consideration of applicants for membership therein.
Occasionally, of course, we unfortunately find men in our midst,
as evidenced by the trials now and then conducted by our subordinate
Lodges, who flagrantly violate and persist in violating their Masonic
obligations. Such men should be disciplined, and neither the favor
of friends nor the charity of the Lodge should operate to prevent
a proper punishment for their delinquencies.
I touch upon this matter because too frequently in Lodge trials
the friends of accused members, honestly believing that leniency and
charity should be extended to the erring brother, lend their aid to
defeat the e~ds of justice. As Masons, we espouse the highest moral
principles and it is incumbent upon us to manifest to the outside world .
our absolute disapproval ·of the criminal and immoral who may exist
among our membership. There is no condonation of crime in Masonry.
From personal observation and knowledge I am highly pleased to
report an excellent condition of our Order throughout the State.
In the larger centers great interest is manifested and enlivened, not
only by the ever increasing degree work, but by many of the Lodges
providing profitable and instructive entertainment for their own members and the visiting brethren. Interchange of visitations among the
Lodges; lectures on Masonic and kindred subjects by those competent to deliver them; travelogues assisted by stereoscope and moving pictures; occasional banquets with their attendant instructive
speeches, largely assist in maintaining the interest of the brethren
in our Order. The members of California Lodge No. 1 have presented with splendid histrionic ability an interesting play of an
"Eighteenth Century Lodge," Masonic in its nature and highly entertaining and instructive. Such diversion from the ordinary ritualistic
work is productive of inestimable good, and Masters of Lodges and
Inspectors of Districts should, whenever possible, provide and encourage such form of instructive diversion.
But while the Craft is generally prosperous and the Lodges making a healthy growth, there are a few not so fortunate: Some of our
older mining towns, once large in population and teeming with wealth
and affluence, are now mere shadows of what they formerly were.
The young men have sought the larger centers, leaving few behind
except the ag.ed, and the Lodges in such · towns are hardly maintaining an existence.

80

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Reports from the Inspectors of sixty-six districts are replete
with suggestion and advice, and indicate the splendid work of these
officers. From their reports we learn of the condition of Lodges
comprising the several districts; we learn of those Lodges which conform faithfully to the laws and regulations, and of those that are
lax and slipshod in their work. The latter, however, we are pleased
to report, are exceedingly few.
The Secretaries and Treasurers of some of our Lodges do not
present semi-annual reports, and many of the Lodges have not adopted
the card index system for visitors recommended by M.". w:. Brother.
Monroe at the last Communication of the Grand Lodge. These are
important matters that the Masters of our Lodges may well see to
in their respective Lodges.
Some of our Inspectors suggest an increased amount for the
minimum dues, claiming that six dollars annually are insufficient
to defray the expenses of many of the Lodges whose dues are but
six dollars a year. I am inclined to agree in this suggestion, and
believe that our. Lodges would be in better financial condition were
the minimum dues nine dollar! per annum . .
CONCLUSION.

The present year of Masonry is very near its close and well may
we felicitate ourselves that it has been one of general prosperity
to our beloved Order; that no great calamity, local or otherwise,
has disturbed or retarded the happiness of the people of our great
State.
The wheels of industry have been rapidly turning; agricultural
development has been unequaled; from the bowels of the earth have
come forth its mineral wealth in lavish abundance ; from its giant
trees have been taken a mighty harvest of timber; science has harnessed its mountain streams to pour forth its liquid power and light
to· every City and hamlet; peace, prosperity and apparent contentment
have been the lot of all. In a clime so gentle and a State so lavish
in its natural gifts, the growth of intellectual and moral development
is keeping pace with its material growth. Earnest, honest men and
women everywhere are zealously striving for higher things. Societies
and organizations are laboring for the suppression of vice in all its
hideous forms. Men of intellect and high moral worth are wrestling
with the social problems of the time; legislatures and police courts
are enacting laws whose objects are to enforce public morality. But
the well informed recognize the fact that reform must come from
within and if we would rise to nobler levels the high ideals of Masonry
must be put into full activity in the ordinary and common affairs of
life.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

81

The influence of one man whose life is guided by the hallowed
light of Masonry, is far beyond estimation.
One may build a mansion; may expend uncounted sums in rearing its walls of marble, and in storing it with every element of beauty
within; and yet, passing from this mortal realm, may have accomplished but little; while another, perhaps, never built anything save
the beautiful mansion of character. The invisible precious stones
t~at are laid in the walls of the new Temple, he laid around about
his own character. He left little save influence, but that influence,
e:certed day by day, falls into sensitive souls, and shapes, moulds and
directs the course of life, and reveals the truth to countless others.
Thus, my brethren, must the beneficent work of Masonry go
f~rward, patient in its strength for ideal humanity, adding link upon
lmk to the chain which joins the man of the past, through the man
of the present, to the better man of the future.
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
Grand Master.

The Deputy Grand Master appointed the following
Committee on Grand Master's Address: John M. Eshelman, Edward C. Young, and Jam es G. Scarborough.
The Grand Master then announced the appointment
of the following Committees :
On Charters : J . Claude Perry, Albert A. Rosenshine, George
W. LeMoin, John S. Ross, Ernest V. Harmon.
On By-Laws : Henry Ascroft, Jimmie N . Hall, George T . Tootiy,
Roy Block, Francis J. McCoy.

The unusu~lly excellent Report of the Committee on
Correspondence was presented, and printed copies being
in the hands of the representatives, the reading of it was
omitted.
The Grand Treasurer pro tern. presented the annual
report of that office, and it was referred to the Finance
Committee.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT.

To the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The undersigned herewith submits his account of the receipts
and expenditures of the Grand Lodge for the past year.

83

GRAND J.ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Treasurer in account with the Grand Lodge for the Fiscal
Year Ending July 31, 1913.
R!lctIPTS.

Balance on hand as per last annual report, July 1912-·--·--·-·-----.$30,920.07
Received from Grand Secretary during fiscal year-.$56,222.90
Received interest on deposit with A. Borel & Co___ 1,041.71
Received interest on deposit with Union Trust Co.
436.83
Received interest on seven Blue Lake Water Co.
6o/o bonds ······-·-··-·····-··-····--··-----·---·--·-------------420.00
Received interest on six Southern Pacific 4% re240.00
funding bonds ---··---·-------·-·--·-------·--------·
Received interest on six Stockton Gas & Electric
360.00
Corporation 6% bonds ··-----·-----·-··----------------·---Received interest on seven California Gas & Elec350.00
tric 5% bonds ·-··········--···-····-······-···-----·-····-··········-Received interest on six Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5%
300.00
bonds ····--·-··········-------·--·······---~--------------····-····--------Total receipts during fiscal year ending July 31, 1913....---·-----·---- $59,371.44
Total receipts including balance on hand from last
annual report -----------·---------------·-----···--:--····------·--·-..$90,291.51
!IXP!INDITUR!IS.

Paid Warrants Nos. 1 to 223 inclusive.....------·--·········--··------------ $73,782.26
Balance on hand carried to next fiscal year.........·-·······-··· $16,509.25
The assets of the Grand Lodge consist of:
Deposits in Bank of A. Borel & Co......·-·--·-···········---.$11,6.38.06
Deposits in Union Trust Co. of San Francisco........ 4,871.19 $16,500.25
Seven Blue Lake Water 6% bonds @ $110.......·----.$ 7,700.00
Six Southern Pacific refunding 4% bonds @ $93.... 5,580.00
Six Stockton Gas & Electric 6% bonds @ $103...... 6,180.00
Seven California Gas & Electric 5% bonds @ $95.... 6,650.00
Six Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5% bonds @ $100.................... 6,000.00
26,500 shares of Masonic Temple Ass'n @ $10......265,000.00 297,110.00
Total assets ----·-····-------------··----~-.,...$313,619.25

The Grand Treasurer reports that since closing his books for
the past fiscal year he has received from the Grand Secretary :
For General Fund·······-----------------$ 57,072.45
For interest on seven Blue Lake Bonds·--·------·-·-·····-----······----·
210.00

$ 57,282.45
The Grand Treasurer also reports that since the commencement of the present fiscal year he has received from
the Grand Secretary the per capita tax of the Grand Lodge
for the Masonic Homes for the year 1913, amounting to the
sum of $75,385.50, segregated as follows :
Home Maintenance Fund -------·---··--····-···-----·--------·------- 50,257.00
Home Building Fund --·-············--·----·---------------,-·-··--- 25,128.50
Total -----------······------·---.:............._________________________
. ---$ 75,385.50
JOHN

C. CoUMAN,
Grand Treasurer.

MASONIC HOME GENERAL FUND TO SEPTEMBER 4, 1913.
R!IC!IIPTS.

Cash balance on hand as per last report, Septem$24,835.~ -.
ber 9, 1912 ----------------------- -- - - - Received per caplta tax to Nov~mber 1st, fr.om
Grand Lodge for year 1912---·············--·------·------.$48,315.00
Interest on same -·--·-····---·-····----·······-··---------230.00
Received October 23, Special appropriation by
-------·-------------- 5,000.00
Gi;and Lodge._
297.14
Received interest deposits Antone Borel & Co---·-Received interest deposits Bank of ItalY--·--·---------- 865.97
Received from Secretary Masonic Home during
the year ---··--··------····--·-·········-······----~--- 6,860.88 61,568.99
~ •• .J. :

Total receipts including balance of September 9,
1912 ----·-·-····--·-·-··-··-···-,······---·--------·--·-·

$86,404.05

DISBURS!IMJINTS.

Paid Warrants 26 to 37...........------·-·-···--·----···-------$72,000.00
Cash on hand September 4th, 1913...----·-··-··········-- 14,404.05 $86,404.05
Deposited with Antone Borel & Co...·-·-····-··-····-·····--.$10,891.29
Deposited with Bank of Italy --··-·····-··--------·--·-·-····-· 3,512.96

14,404.05

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOME ENDOWMENT FUND TO SEPTEMBER 4,
1913.
IU:CJlIPTS.

Cash in Bank of Italy September 9, 1912, as per
report to Grand Lodge......................-·······-··--·--Received interest froin Bonds :
25 Santa Barbara Municipal ··--··---·----$
11 Santa Barbara W<rter Works -····-··--···········2 San Diego Water Worla......- ............................_
5 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph........................1 San Francisco City Hall ......................................
1 San Diego Highway, 6 mos-····-··-············-······
Received interest Bank of Italy on deposits..·-···Received 1 San Diego Highway Redeemed, October 8, 1912 ..................................................................
Received 2 Santa Barbara Municipal Redeemed,
July 9, 1913 -······-·············-··········..,,·························

$
604.70
495.00
87.71
250.00
50.00
22.50
26.15

185.06

1,536.06

1,000.00

85

ASSl':TS.

23 Santa Barbara Municipal Bonds ............•.............$12,362.50
11 Santa Barbara Water Works Bonds.................... 11,000.00
2 San Diego Water Works Bonds...............·-··-······ 1,950.00
5 Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Bonds.............. 5,000.00
1 City & County San Francisco City Hall Bond 1,000.00
Premium on above last report........................$301.98
Premium paid 1 bond purchased.................... 86.00
$387.98
Less premium amortized ··························--·· 50.00

337.98

Amount on deposit Bank of Italy September 4, 1913 -········-····-················-·············-

2,690.91

1,075.00

Assets as above ················-·-·-··-·-············-..$34,341.39
Add accrued interest Sept. 1, 1913........................
397.83

$ 3,796.12

$34,739.22

34,341.39

Respectfully submitted,

DISBURSl':MJlNTS.

Purchased 1 San Francisco City Hall Bond, 1939.....$ 1,000.00
Premium and Commission paid on above...-............
86.00
Paid accrued interest at purchase Nov. 14th..........
18.61
Paid Charge & Collection 1 San Diego Highway
.60
redeemed ......................................................................
Balance Cash in Bank of Italy, Sept 4th.•......-...... 2,690.91 $ 3,796.12

JouN C. Cor.tKAN,
Grand Treasurer.

The Grand Secretary presented his annual report,
and it was referred to the same Committee as that upon
Address of Grand Master :
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT.

MASONIC HOME ENDOWMENT FUND SEPTEMBER 4, 1913.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.
LIABILITIF;S.

Amount in Fund September 9th, as per report to
$32,874.54
Grand Lodge ..............................................................
Interest received ................................................
$ 1,536.06
Less due at purchase of bonds....................$ 18.61
Less written off Premium account............ 50.00
Less co~t collecting redeemed bond............
.60
69.21
1,466.85

$34.341.39

To the M.". w:. Grand Lrxlge of California:
I present herewith my annual report, which has been prepe.red dur·
ing a time of unusual labor: for what with preparing for the dedication of the new Temple, the closing of the work of indexing the names
of members of the jurisdiction, the removal of the office from the
old quarters, and the ordinary work of collecting the annual returns
of Lodges and the new tax for a building fund for the Masonic Homes, ·
the summer and fall days have been strenuous ones.
By order of the Grand Master, the office of the Grand Secretary
was on the 27th day of September removed to the Masonic Temple.
The offices comprise rooms for the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary,

•
86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Grand Lecturer, a general reading room for Masons (which room
is fitted up with cases holding some fifteen hundred books, at this time
principally reports of other jurisdictions), a "stack room" for books,
and a store room. Twenty-four large boxes of books containing the
Pierce Library, have been opened and the contents placed upon
shelves. The matter of cataloging will necessarily take some umc.
and will not be undertaken until after Grand Lodge. Meantime, however, the rooms are furnished for the comfort and convenience of the
brethren, and it is hoped many will avail themselves of the hospitalitj
thereof.

The unfinished business for consideration at this communication is
the resolution of Brother Henry M. Owens, as follows :

The matter of indexing the name and Masonic history of each
member in the jurisdiction has progressed in a fairly satisfactory way.
I have entered and filed in alphabetical order every name and history
as returned by the several Secretaries. Generally, those officers were
prompt and careful in making returns for the index, but one hundred
and six Lodges, the names of whose members, as shown by the last
Roster, had been mailed to Secretaries in August and September, 1912,
had not reported up to the 4th of April, 1913, at which date they were
again requested to respond; again on the 22d of May they were written to, and before the 1st of August. all had sent in corrected name~
and histories except twenty-one Lodges. I therefore caused to be
made up in this office, from the records of 1906 and the years following to 1912, an index of the names and Masonic histories of the members of those missing Lodges-not a satisfactory list, but the best I
could do. The work of indexing and correcting the spelling of names
on the roll, as reported by Secretaries, resulted in the changing of the
spelling of many names, the elimination of some names from the roll,
and the addition of fifty-two members who had not been previously
reported. Therefore, it is apparent that the printed Roster of 1912
has many errors-some possibly the fault of the Grand Secretary's office, some of the printer, and some of the local Secretaries-and I
respectfully suggest that it would be useful to the craft of the Jurisdiction to publish one more Roster, with the names corrected to the
last reports.
I call your particular attention to the new aprons worn by the
brethren. · They were made by the girls at the San Gabriel Masonic
Home and compare well with the best product of Masonic supply
houses. Their efforts are commended to the Craft, and it is hoped
that Lodges of the Jurisdiction generally will remember them when in
need of linen aprons.
"'

At the risk of becoming tiresome, I renew my former suggestion
that life members be required to procure certificates of membership
annually.

87

"Resolved, that Section 129A of the Constitution be amended to
read as follows :
"Section 129A. No Lodge shall receive an application for the degrees of Masonry, or for affiliation, from any one who is engaged
either as principal, agent or employe in the saloon business ; and any
Mason who may hereafter enter upon and engage in the saloon business, either as owner, agent or employe, shall be deemed guilty of
unmasonic conduct, and shall upon due trial and conviction of said
offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership in any Lodge, except when acting under order of any Court."
Since the last Annual Communication, six new Lodges have been
formed, the names and locations of which appear in the Address of the
Grand Master. The petitions for the dispensations for those Lodges,
together with that of Hammonton Lodge (dispensation for which was
continued last year), with the certificates of withdrawal of the several
petitioners from the Lodges whereof they had last been members, and
the certificates that the Masters and Wardens named, were duly qualified as required by the Constitution, were all correctly prepared, and
they are herewith submitted, together with the returned dispensations
and books of record and the petitions of the new Lodges to be perpetuated by charter.
Grafton Lodge No. 141, by error in its annual returns for the
year ending July 31, 1912, overpaid the Grand Lodge the sum of
$1.90, claim for which is herewith presented from said Lodge.
At the close of the last Annual Communication there were 351
chartered Lodges on the roll of the Grand Lodge, and one Lodge,
Hammonton, continued under dispensation. Three Lodges have with•
drawn from the jurisdiction, viz. ~ Manila No. 342, Cavite No. 350,
and Corregidor · No. 386, the said ·Lodges having joined in the formation · of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands. Six new Lodges
have been formed, at Maricopa, Claremont, San Francisco (Fairmount),
Los Angeles (Germania), Tyrian (Manteca), and Lancaster, makin~
the total number now on the roll, 355. The membership last year was
48,315. We lost by the withdrawal of Lodges in the Philippine Islands, ,
443 members. The membership. is now, as reported July 31, 1913,
50,257, a net gain of 1,942. There were initiated 3,198, passed 3,137,
raised 3,132, affiliated 977, restored 113, withdrawn 689, suspended for
non-payment of dues 491, suspended ~r expelled for unmasonic conduct
15, died 751.

88

89

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The history of the relief extended to outside jurisdictions will be
found in the Address of the Grand Master. The condition of the
Special Emergency Relief Fund in my custody is as follows :

paid dues for fifteen years. The approval of the Grand Master has
been filed in this office in forty cases: One from Clovis Lodge No.
417, abolishing affiliation fee; one from Perris Lodge No. 411, fixing
affiliation fee; two, from San Diego No. 35 and Brawley No. 402,
increasing fee for affiliation: one, from Los Angeles Lodge No. 42,
reducing amount for dues; nine, from Occidental No. 22, Charter Rock
No. 410, Nevada No. 13, Mount Moriah No. 44, Alcatraz No. 244, Santa
Rosa No. 57, Visalia No. 128, King David's No. 209, Orland
No. 265, increasing dues; eleven, from Illinoistown No. 51,
Meridian No. 182, Mountain View No. 194, King David's No. 209, San
Buenaventura No. 214, North Butte No. 230, Eucalyptus No. 243, Alturas
No. 248, Orange Grove No. 293, Ontario No. 301, Jewel No.
374, Chino Valley No. 427, increasing fee for degrees; sixteen, from
Pajaro No. 110, Vacaville No. 134, Antioch No. 175, Ferndale No. 193,
Anaheim No. '207, Doric No. 216, Downey No. 2'20, Adin No. 250, Maxwell No. 288, Orange Grove No. 293, Ontario No. 301, Sanger No..
316, San Francisco No. 360, Orosi No. 383, East Belt No. 391, Moneta
No. 405, Inglewood No. 421, changing time of stated meetings. All
which proposed amendments will be placed in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee on By-Laws of Lodges and submitted to the
Grand Lodge for final action. The books of by-laws of lodges under
dispensation will also be placed with the same Committee.

On hand at last report, 1912.-····--··-··-·····-····-····--..:-.---$ 1,480.02
December 31, 1912, interest ····-········-···············-···········-·---······29.60
Deposited in bank March 29 to May 24, 1913..-········--·:·-·--· 9,500.70
June 30, 1913, interest ···--···-·-:··-··-······-····-···············-·-·····-··
47.25
Total ····--·-··-·----···-···-············-·······-··············-·--··-..$11,057.57
Less: Remitted to Grand Master of Ohio--·······-····--··---·-..$ 5,000.00
Remitted to Grand Master Illinois.....................--·····--· 1,000.00
Total expended - - - - - -

_ _ _, 6,000.0Q

Balance in fund ·-·····--···----·-············-····--·-·-.$ 5,057.57
The above moneys are in savings bank, subject to call, and drawing four per cent interest.
The Grand Master has approved the Compact of the San Diego
Board of Relief. He has also app~oved resolutions providing for life
membership in the following Lodges: Solano No. 229, Reading No.
254, Tehachapi No. 313, and San Fernando No. 343.
By order of the Grand Master, special dispensations for various
purposes have been issued from this office, as follows .:
To reballot: La Parfaite Union No. 17 (2); San Diego No. 35,
Santa Cruz No. 38, Natoma No. 64 (2); La Grange No. 99, Alameda
No. 167, Crockett No. 139, Doric No. 216 (3), Fallbrook No. 317, McKinley No. 347, Unity No. 368.
To hold election for officers at a time other than that fixed by
law: Bear Mountain No. 76, Rose's Bar No. 89, St. Helena No. 93,
Surprise Valley No. 235, Pomona No. 246, Lodi No. 256, Emmanuel No.
318, Alhambra No. 322, Redondo No. 328, Waucoba No. 413.
The Grand Master also granted an extension of time in which
the Master-elect of Waucoba Lodge No. 413 might secure certificate
of qualification.
Petitions for the consolidation of La Grange Lodge No. 99 with
Yosemite Lodge No. 133, to bear the name and number of Yosemite
Lodge No. 99, subject to the present by-laws of La Grange Lodge No.
99, have been received, and are herewith presented.
. Of the proposed amendments to the by-laws of Lodges which have
been received, the Grand Master withheld his approval from two cases :
One, Fullerton Lodge No. 339, proposed to fix the salary of the Secretary by by-law instead of by resolution; one, Ferndale Lodge No.
193, proposed to exempt from the payment of dues members who had
0

Transcripts of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of appeal,
have been received from the following Lodges:
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408, retrial of record 121.
Reading Lodge No. 254, case 124, expelled.
Vesper Lodge No. 84, case 125, member of Reading Lodge No.
254, expelled.
Tehama Lodge No. 3, case 126, member of Corinthian Lodge No.
9, expelled.
Coalinga Lodge No. 387, case 127, suspended.
Janesville Lodge No. 232, case 128, suspended.
McKinley Lodge No. 347, case 129 (a Fellow Craft), expelled.
Mizpah Lodge No. 378, case 130, expelled.
Starr King Lodge No. 344, case 131, expelled.
Richmond Lodge No. 375, case 132, member of Occidental Lodge
No. 22, expelled.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, case 133, expelled.
Curtis Lodge No. 140, case 134, expelled.
Fidelity Lodge No. 1'20, case 135, expelled.
Sunset Lodge No. 352, case 137, expelled.
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286, case 138, expelled.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237, case 139, expelled.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410, case 140, suspended.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

90

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.

Warrant
No.

Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, case 141, expelled.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363, case 142, suspended.
Naval Lodge No. 87, case 143, expelled.
Corona Lodge No. 324, case 144, expelled.

During the year ended July 31, 1913, I have drawn against the
Grand Treasurer as follows :
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

John Whicher, salary, August, 1912..-··-··-···-···-·----$
T. J. Baker, salary, August, 1912..·-··--·-···-·····-···-H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1912...-·--··-···--··--E. J. Tobin & Co., rent, September, 1912..·-···--·····-···William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor..·-············-····
Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman...........-C. B. Seaman, salary, August, 1912·-·······-·····---····--··
Star Towel Supply Co., rent, May 1st to August 1st, 1912
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, August, 1912.-·-······-·-···-···Irvine & Jachens, Premium numbering machine................
L. M. Alexander & Co., 1 typewriter, $50.00; 1 ribbon, 7Sc.-----····-··-···-··-··---······-···--·-···--12. John Whicher, expressage, $3.00; telegrams, $1.60; postage stamps, $8.00; acc. Endowment Committee, $2.00....
13. T. J. Baker, expenses July 28 to August 28, 1912..·-···-14. Neal Publishing Co., 1500 Circulars (notices to delegates
Grand Lodge), $19.50; 500 envelopes, $4.00........·-···-····
15. John Whicher, salary, September, 1912...--···········-··--···16. T. J. Baker, salary, September, 1912..-···--··--·--17. H. S. Johnson, salary, September, 1912--····-····--···-18. C. B. Seaman, salary, September, 1912.--··-·-----··19. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor..·-·················-····
20. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman............-..
21. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent, October, 1912....--····-········-·····
22. A. J. Monroe, envelopes and stamps.--·····---·-····-23. McNutt, Kahn & Co., 800 gold seals, $3.25; Collins Ink
eradicator,
24. E. C. Hughes Co., 1000 letter heads (Grand Secretary) ..
25. Rabjohn & Morcum, frame to group..,'-···..-···-·······-·-···-·
26. John Whicher, telegrams, $1.40; padlock; $1.25; repairing chaji:s, $1.00; expressagC\ ,2Jc.,:.....~,.."".'"···-..,-=-·-

2Sc.-·-----··---·----·--·-----·

2.36
28. Shannon Conmy Co., 2 books of receipts, $15.00; 500
small 2c en~elopes, $12.50; 500 large 2c envelopes,
54.25
$12.75; 400 circulars (notice of rejections, etc.), $14.00
8.30
29. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, September, 1912....- ..······-············
6.00
30. H. S. Crocker, City Directory -····················-······-······-·······
31. F. C. Hensley, services rendered acc. Endowment Com60.00
mittee ·-·····-··-····-····--·-···-······················-········-·····32. The Call, July 1st to October 1st, 1912......-·········-···-······- . 2.25
33. Burroughs Adding Mach. Co., attention to machine........
4.00
34. T. J. Baker, expenses, September 1st to 27th, 1912............
107.65
35. Motley H. Flint, for a Past Grand Master
200.00
36. M. H. Flint, acc. Pay Roll, 1912...-....-~......:=::::::::::::::=::=: 9,000.00
37. Edward Coleman, acct. Pay Roll, 1912...-············-·········-- 2,303.55
38. Masonic Board of Relief. of San Francisco..................... _. 5,000.00
39. Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles......·--····-············· 4,000.00
600.00
40. Masonic Board of Relief of San Diego..............................41. Masonic Board of Relief of Sacramento..............................
500.00
42. S. D. Mayer, salary as Grand Organist..............................:..
60.00
125.00
43. George P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler_·············-·······44. William P. Filmer, contingent expenses as Grand Master 1,200.00
45. Wm. S. Wells. for the Masonic Homes................................ 5,000.00 ·
46. John Whicher, contingent expenses annual Communica250.00
tion ·····································································-····-········-····
20.00
47. John D. Walker, for quartette opening, Grand Lodge....
48. W. D. Engle, 1 year's sub. to Masonic Relief Ass'n. of
U. S. & Canada..·-···-···-··········-···-·-····---···-····-····-· 241.57
49. Pacific Coast Casualty Co., premium bonds of Gr. Secty.
62.50
and Gr. Treasurer ····································--·····-·········-·····
50. C. H. Callahan, for Alexandria-Washington Lodge Me200.00
morial Committee ·-············-·······················-························
300.00
51. John Whicher, salary, October, 1912..........-···--·--········200.00
52. T. J. Baker, salary, October, 1912..........·-··········-··········-·
150.00
53. H. S. Johnson, salary, October, 1912..........-···-··················75.00
54. C. B. Seaman, salary, October, 1912........·-···-..·····················
55. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman ................
25.00
25.00
56. Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor........·-········--······118.00
57. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent, November, 1912.·-········-·············8.45
58. Pacific T. & T . Co., rent, October, 1912.......--······-·············
59. McNutt, Kahn & Co., sundries for Annual Communica9.20
tion ································-·········-················-······-··-·-·-·············
60. Shreve & Co., silver service: for P. G. M. Monroe............
300.00
• 61. A. L. Ai1radou, engrossing 11 Charters......................•....•....
11.00

27. H. S. Crocker Co., supplies for addressograph-·····-····-

Petitions for restoration have been received from Case 51, expelled by Califo~nia Lodge No. 1, October 3, 1907; Case 56%, expelled
by Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361, July 7, 1908.
The papers in all the above-mentioned cases have been placed
in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee on Grievances.

Warrant
No.

91

300.00
200.00
150.00
118.00
35.00
25.00
75.00
2.25
8.15
5.00
50.75
14.69
167.25
23.50
300.-00
200.00
150.00
75.00
35.00
25.00
118.00
6.50
3.50
9.00
2.00
3.88

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

92

93

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Warrant
No.

Warrant
~

62. Neal Publishing Co., 500 pamphlets, ceremonials Grand
00.00
Lodge ····--·····--···············-···································-···············63. Wentworth & Boyce, cards and guides, acct. Card Sys141.55
tem --···--····--·······----······-····--··-·····-···-···-·7.50
64. L. M. Alexander & Co., 12 ribbons.·-····-····-···························
2.25
65. Star To~el Supply Co., rent, August to November, 1912
20.00
66. T. J. Baker, expenses, Sept. 28 to Oct. 26, 1912.................•
67. John Whicher, telegrams, $2.15; expressage, $17.07; post59.22
age stamps, $40.00 ···-·················-·········-··········-·····-····-····
68. Geo. R. Armstrong, 2 Midget signature stamps, !~0.00 ;
66.15
1 gallon paste, $2.50 ; 14,500 receipts for dues, .p.13.6 ..
300.00
fl}. John Whicher, salary, November, 1912..-·--·····---···-·-····200.00
70. T. J . Baker, salary, November, 1912---·····-··-·-·····-·..···········
150.00
71; H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1912-·--························75.00
72. C. B. Seaman, salary, November, 1912---·-··········--·······-···25.00
73. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman................
25.00
74. Wm. P . Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor................................
118.00
75. 'I'. J. Tobin & Co., rent, Dececnber, 1912.......·-········-·-········
;
76. E. C. Hughes Co., 2400 Inspector's Certificates2, 5$015.00
. 500 bill heads, $6.00; 1000 letter heads, $1 .. ; 100
.
keys to examination questions, $2.75; 500 exammatton
56.75
sheets, $8.00 ; 500 2c envelopes, $12.50----·····-·········2.40
77. H. S. Crocker Co., 6 transfer cases ····---···········-····-·········
17.00
78. Wm. R. Phillips Co., cash book for Grand Treasurer........
2.50
79. Standard Typewriter Insp. Co., 1 platen...........·-·············
80. Shannon Conmy Co., 500 clasp envelopes,1 $6.00$;12120075
copies Grand Oration, $32.50 ; 500 2c env~ op~s,
· ;
500 small 2c envelopes, $12.50; 400 copies list of re77.75
jections, etc., $14.00.....--··-·-·--·· -·--···--··-···-8.20
81. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, November, 1912....- ...
82. John Whicher, expressage, $4.32; drayage, $3. ; taxes,
34.76
14c; laundrying aprons, $26.~L·-····-·····-··-·-·---··129.20
83. T. J. Baker, expenses, October 27 to November 28, 1912
95.00
84. Geo. R. Armstrong, 500 receipt holders................................
200.00
85. E. H. Hart, Chairman Com. on Correspondence·-·········-·
300.00
86. John Whicher, .salary, December, 1912.-·-·········-···········-····
200.00
87. T. J. Baker, salary, December, 1912---·············-················150.00
88. H . S. Johnson, salary, December, 1912...........·-····················75.00
89. C. B. Seaman, salary, December, 1912......................·-····-·
25.00
90. Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor..............................
25.00
91. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman................
92. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent January, 1913..............._................... 118.00
93. Shannon Conmy Co., 1200 copies proceedings, 1912........ 1,293.20

5

.....---···
50

94. Geo. R. Armstrong, 14,500 receipts, $53.55; 100 Life
Membership receipts, $3.50...--····-···-···-···..···-···--····
95. T. J. Baker, expenses, November 30 to December 21,
1912 ····----·····························-····-······-·····················-···-········
96. Schmidt Lithograph Co., 500 small diplomas, $65.00; 100
charters, $260.00 ·········-·····-···-·····-····-················-····-··········
97. McN utt, Kahn & Co,. 1 scrapbook $1.75, 1 cone twine 75c
98. J. Fredericks & Co., repairing leather chair and couch..
99. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, December, 1912..,.........................
100. The Call, sub. October 1 to January 1, 1913.............,........
101. John Whicher, telegrams, $2.00; expressage, $4.35............
102. J ohn Whicher, salary, January, 1913..........................-.,........
103. T. ]. Baker, salary, January, 1913..·-- ···············-···- ···········
104. H. S. Johnson, salary, January, 1913...-.................................
105. C. B. Seaman, salary, January, 1913----···-··-·-········..··-..······
106. Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor............:...................
107. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman................
100. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent, February, 1913................................
109. T. J. Baker, expenses December 28 to January 24, 1913....
110. Shannon Conmy Co., 1000 Monitors, $120.00; 2000 address labels, $4.00; 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75;
500 small 2c envelopes, $12.50----···----~---···-···-····-····-········
111. Potesta & Baldocchi, floral piece (Moses) ............................
112. Bank of Italy, rent safe deposit hox to November, 1913
113. Wilson Bros. Co., storage ( Pierce . Library) ......................
114. E. C. H ughes Co., 2000 blanks (card system) ......................
115. D. R. Weller, floral piece ( Orme) ........................................
116. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, January, 1913................................
117. Hirschfelder & Meaney, 1 regalia case.·--·--·..··-..·--·-······-····
118. John Whicher, expressage, $159.11; Postage stamps,
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.

$30.00 -·----···········--- ·-··-----·-·········-····-·········--·-·····-······
Neal Publishing Co., 1500 amendments to Constitution....
John Whicher, salary, February, 1913............... _ ......:.........
T. J. Baker, salary, February, 1913-··-·-·-········-··········-········
H. S. Johnson, salary, February, 1913.----··········-·----··
C. B. Seaman, salary, February, 1913..·-···························-·
Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor....................·-·······Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman................
E. J. Tobin & Co., rent, March, 1913.............-··-······-······
Miss A. Rueben, salary 1-5 month (acct. card system) ..
Star Towel Supply Co., rent, November to March, 1913
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 300 diplomas...................... _..........
McNutt, Kahn & Co., 1 rm. typewriting paper................
6

57.05
71.40
325.00
2.50
10.95
8.20
2.25
6.35
300.00
200.00
150.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
118.00
43.15

149.25
20.00
4.00
16.00
12.50
20.00
8.65
4.25
189.11
32.50
300.00
200.00
150.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
118.00
10.00
3.00
261.00
1.20

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

95

PROCEhDINGS OF THE

94

Warrant
No.

Warrant

8.30
13f.o. Pacific T. & T. Co., re~~· February, 1913-.... ::::::::::~:::::~:-.::
1.50
132. Irvine & Jachens, repamng seal...........-··:········ E Holt
133. John Whicher, express, $3.03; prosecution G. .
....~
34.58
$28. telegrams, $3.55 ········•·······································-···-13
105.20
T. J. Baker, expenses, January 25 to February 21, 19 ..
300.00
134. John Whicher, salary, March, 1913..........-········-······-··········
200.00
135. T . J. Baker, salary, March, 1913_............................................
150.00
l~. H. S. Johnson, salary, March, 1913..............·······-··-·-··-······
75.00
13 . C. B. Seaman, salary, March, 1913.........-·······-···················
25.00
l~. Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor···:··-·······················
25.00
1 · Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman...............-118.00
140· E J Tobin & Co., rent, April, 1913--··-····-···-···--·-····-50.00
141. M·1·s~ A. Rueben, salary, March (acct. card system)-·-····
131.55
142.
F b
21 to March 28 1913......
expenses, e ruary
'
8.20
143 · T. J.. Baker,
T & T c
rent March 1913.............-·-·-----··
144. Pacific .
· o.,
'
'
75 L"
f R gu
Pantagraph Printing & Stationery Co., 3
ists o e 144.69
145.
1 Lodges and cost of shipping..·-·····························-:····
275.00
Ne:; Publishlng C<A, 500 Constitutions and ~eremon1es
27.50
46
1 .
k p b C History of San Francisco..............
4.00
147. S J Clar e u · o., ·
·
hine
B. .
hs Adding Machine Co., attention to mac
....
148.
urroug C
C 750 Rosters $1976.00; 400 lists of
149. Shan~o~. n~n~{z 500_., 500 lists of inspectors, $36.00; 1000
reiec JO '
.1 ' $25 50· 500 small 2c envelopes,
large 2c enve opes,
· •
2,074.50
$12.50; 400 lists of rejections, $12.S<L---·························
6.49
John Whicher' expressage, $2.64; telegrams, $3.85 ............
125.00
1;0. D. G. Blakiston, portrait A. J. Monroe...... ·-·-·····-··············
2.25
1 1. The Call January 1 to April 1, 1913----···-··--···-··-·--·4.50
152.
'
C 1000 circulars (G. E. Holt) ....................
153 W. N. Brunt o.,
C
·
.
K h C 12 Gripp files $3; 1 rm. . copies,
154. McNutt, a n o.,
'
3.50
50c -·-····-·-···········-··-····----·········-··-··········-····-···-·-12.50
E. C. Hughes Co., 500 2c envelopes ···············-·····················
86.95
155. Geo. R Armstrong, 23,500 receipts---···:--···:-············-··-····
10.00
156. Geo. p ~Adams, delivering 75 Rosters m City..·-·······-····
300.00
157. John Whicher, salary, April, 1913.........·-······-;··············--··
200.00
1~. T J Baker salary, April, 1913----·········-···········-····-·--···· 150.00
John;on, salary, ·April, 1913.......................·•··--····-····
1 .
75.00
160. C. B. Seaman, salary, April, 1913----··-···-·········-----·118.00
l~~- E J Tobin & Co., rent, May, 191L----·-··:--·-·····-·---·25.00
l . R~diands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman ..-·····-······
25.00
163. Wm p Filmer for Mrs. C. W. Taylor ..............·-···:······-·····
1.75
64
· · Kah 'co 1 Gr pens $1.00: 1 cone twme, 75c
1 .
4.00
165 McNutt,
n
·•
·
'
.
1· f)
.
H h C 500 circulars (Ohio Re ie ················
166. E. C. ug es o.,

H. S.

167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.

Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, April, 1913..·-·····················-Rabjohn & Morcum, frame for portrait of Monroe..........
Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit (Gr. Treas.)---··
H. S. Crocker Co., 360 guides.......·-···-····-···------T. J. Baker, expenses March 28 to April 20, 1913..·-···-·
John Whicher, expressage, $111.65 ; taxes, $2.83; telegrams, $4.40 ·········-·--·--········------·--··--·-····-···--·····
Miss A. Rueben; salary, April (acct. ca~d system) ...- ....
John Whicher, salary, May, 1913..·-··········-····--·--·-·····
T. J. Baker, salary, May, 1913..-······-·······-··--················
H. S. Johnson, salary, May, 1913..·-·····-···-···-····-···-·········
C. B. Seaman, salary, May, 1913:.·-···········-··-··········-······:....
E. J. Tobin & Co., rent, June, 1913...·-···-··--··-···-··········
Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman..·-·············
Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor.....................-.........
Miss A. Rueben, salary May (acct. card system) ............
T. J. Baker, expenses April 29 to May 29, 1913...·-·····--···
John Whicher, telegrams, 95c; expressage, $4.63; rubber
stamps, 75c ·······-···-·-··········-····················-·····--·-----H. S. Crocker Co., 3 transfer cases-······-·--·--·--··--·--Star Towel Supply Co., rent, March to June, 1913.........- ..
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, May, 1913..·--··-··-·-··-··-·-·-McNutt Kahn Co., 1 quart ink...·-···-···-·----··-···-----Chas. M. Plum, carpets, linoleum, etc. (for offices in
new Temple) ···-···-··-··-························---·-···--·John Whicher, salary, June, 1913........................-..................
T . J. Baker, salary, June, 1913---·-·····················-·····-··-···
H. S. Johnson, salary, June, lYl,3....- ......................................
C. B. Seaman, salary, June, 1913-......................................... .
E. J. Tobin Co., rent, July, 1913...--.......................................
Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman ....................
Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor-·-·····························
The Call, April 1 to July 1, 1913..·--·--··-··········-··········-··
E. C. Hughes Co., 1000 letter heads, $9.00; 500 2c envelopes, $12.50 ··-·--·--·····-------···-:··-···············
W. R. Phillips, 75 Bound Volumes, 1912....- ......................
Pacific T . & T. Co., rent, June, 1913.·--··-·························
R. G. Guyett & Co., premium Ins. on furniture ................
Remington Typewriter Co., 2 machines.·-····-···················
John Whicher, postage stamps, $30.00; expressage, $2.36;
freight, $5.60 -·-···-··········-··.,.·-··-··-··-·······························
Geo. R. Armstrong, 14,000 receipts.................·-····-··-···-·-·

8.20
36.00
7.50
25.90
73.20
118.88
50.00
300.00
200.00
150.00
75.00
118.00
25.00
25.00
50.00
75.45
6.33
1.65
2.25
9.30
.75
146.85
300.00
200.00
150.00
75.00
118.00
25.00
25.00
2.25
21.50
132.50
8.26

14.20
140.00
37.96
51.80

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Warrant
No. T. J. Baker, expenses, May 29 to June 27, 1913................
204.

116.85
205 & 206. E. Peabody, 2500 shares Masonic Temple stock.... 25,000.00
207. John Whicher, salary, July, 1913..-•···-····,·-·····•·······-···-·····
300.00
208. T. J. Baker, salary, July, 1913.......·-·······················-··············
200.00
209. H. S. Johnson, salary, July, 1913..·-··--·-····--·······-····-······
150.00
210. C. B. Seaman, salary, July, 1913.....•..---··-··········-·······-·······
75.00
211. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge............
25.00
212. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman................
25.00
213. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent, August, 1913•...................·-···········118.00
214. W. & J. Sloane, cleaning rugs.........-•········-···························
3.25
215. Shannon Conmy Co., 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75 ; 400
copies list of rejections, $15.00; 500 small 2c envelopes,
$12.50; 1000 Monitors, $120.00; 1000 envelopes for an168.75
nual returns, $8.50 -····---···-····---·······-··-···-·-·····
4.00
216. E. C. Hughes, 500 circulars to Inspectors ················-··········
8.26
217. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, July, 1913..............-······················
3.00
218. Wentworth & Boyce, 500 guides (card system) .........:......
6.00·
219. H. S. Crocker Co., ctty directory .•.·-········-················-········
176.75
220. T. J. Baker, expenses, June 27 to July 25, 1913....................
200.00
221. John C. Coleman, salary for year ending July 31, 1913.... . 17.50
222. Rucker Fuller Desk Co., typewriter table...·-···-····-·····-····
223. John Whicher, postage stamps, $28.00; expressage,
34.92
$6.37 ; telegrams, 55c ··-·······•······-·-···-·····························-·
Total ---··----······-······-······--·····--···--·•·-··-·--···-··--······$3,7Pi2.26
The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of Cali:
fornia for the fiscal year ending ]ply 31, 1913:
General Fund
Dues from Subordinate Lodges.....- ............:.••.....·-············-·········· $52,851.10
500.00
Fees for Charters (10) -··..-·-----·-····-··························.····--··
450.00
Dispensations to form new Lodges (6) · ·--··························-···280.00
Special Dispensations for various purposes·-···················-············
E. Newberg (Covelo Lodge No. 231; overpayment account of
8.50
.pay roll)--···-··-·-····-······---··-•·---···-··-·······-··-·-·..······
34.00
Manila Lodge No. 342, fees to December 19, 1912........................
18.00
Corregidor Lodge No. 386, fees to December 19, 1912................
20.00
Cavite Lodge No. 350, fees to December 19, 1912........................
91.45
Account of pay roll, balance not paid to Representatives ..........
2.15
'California Ins. Co., rebate on policy 54,451...............•....................

91

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sales for yearDiplomas
(large) ··········································································
Diplomas (small)
Const'.tut'.on (pape~--b~~~d·)·························································
Constltut1ons (interleaved)
·········································
Proceedings and rosters
···········H······-····-------------·H····-.. ·--------

~g:~i~~f~~~~~f-tI=~~:~:~~~~~~;;

Constitution and Ceremonie
·················································
Monitors
s ····················································
OOOO•O•O••OO•OOOOOOOOO•OOOOOHOOHOOOO••OOH•HOooOOOooOOOOOOOOoHOooOooooOooooooooooooooo

Home Fund

243.00
56.ZS
7.00
7.50
20.00
343.75
80.20
1.50

7.50
684.00
517.00

$56,222.90
·························································································· 48,315.00

Amounting
in aggregate
paid--~~--~h~··············································.$104,537.90
All which
has been to
on file in this office and a h ld b Grahnd Treas~rer, as per receipts
F
h
'
s s ou
e s own by his report
or t e current fiscal year, August 1 to 0
. .
I have collected and paid to the Grand T
ctober 10, 1913, inclusive,
segregated as follows:
reasurer the sum of $132,457.95
Home
Home Maintenance
Building FundFund ·································································· $50,257.00

~:;;::~!:~~e ··F~~·<l····:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: !~:~~:!~
--············-·····-·····- ···--------·---········-·----·--·-------···-·····

9,900.00

Total ........................................................:.............:.......·-····-·········-'132,4$7.95
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock
:his afternoon.

31~ "ranh ilnhgr.
Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 14, 1913.
"'" The Gra_n~ Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock the Grand
_vJ.aster pres1dmg.
·
'

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Lecturer read his annual report, which
was referred to a special committee consisting of George
F. Rodden, Charles F. Chapman, Rudolph Schaeffer, Walter S. Pierce, and William H. Nichols.
GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
I herewith submit to you the report of my stewardship as Grand
Lecturer for the year just closed.
Masonry has kept well abreast of the times, carrying high its
torch of enlightenment, ever anxious and willing to impart light and
information to all those who desire to see the dawn of a new day.
The Brethren of this jurisdiction have much to be proud of, for
Masonry has never been in a more prosperous condition or the
Lodges more flourishing, numerically or financially.
All with very few exceptions have had more than the average
gain in membership. Six new Lodges have received dispensations
this year, and one held over from last year, making at present 355
Lodges. The net gain in membership being over two thousand and
the total membership being now over fifty thousand, what a vast
army when united for a principle and what a great influence when
exerted for the betterment of mankind!
The coming year promises to be one of unusual Masonic activity, largely because of the great number of people coming into
our State, and the wonderful improvement going on therein.
Masonry in California was never better organized than it is
today, and with a steady adherence to the fundamental principles
of the Fraternity and the splendid support of the many good and
true men who are giving their time and best efforts toward Masonic
uplift, satisfactory results will be attained.
In this forward movement each of us has a part. Let us then
all do our full duty as men and Masons, thereby making the coming
year one that will be resplendent with true fraternity and higher
manhood.
I have visited every district in the jurisdiction and held schools
of instruction, day and night sessions.
All have been well attended by officers and members with few
exceptions.
It is unfortunate that some of the Lodges located in the mining
districts, which in years gone by were flourishing Lodges when the

'1RAN:-> LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

mines were prosperous, now find it difficult to hold meetings on
account of not being able to get a quorum, the members being scattered all over the world.
I wish to thank the Inspectors for their assistance and courtesies
to me during the year. They have aided very materially in bringing the Lodges up to the present state of proficiency. I have received reports from all the Inspectors and they report the Lodges
in their respective districts to be doing good work and mcist of
them in fine financial condition.
Several of the Lodges have completed and dedicated new Temples
within the year and several are now working on plans and making
preparations to build in the near future.
Several degrees have been conferred by the Inspectors of this
City and the Bay Counties, in San Francisco and neighboring Cities,
and quite a number of degrees have been conferred by our Most
Worshipful Grand Master, who filled the East, and the Inspectors the
other places.
It has been my pleasure to accompany our Most Worshipful
Grand Master on many of his visits throughout the State, and on
several occasions the Third Degree was conferred by him letter perfect, which was not only instructive for the Brethren from a ritualistic
standpoint, but greatly appreciated by them.
It was also my pleasure to accompany the Most Worshipful
Grand Master on his visit to the Islands of Hawaii.
Schools of instruction were held by me both at Hilo and Honolulu, where I found the Lodges in excellent condition, and a more
hospitable, enthusiastic and earnest lot of Masons would be hard to
find. The splendid manner in which they have the work is remarkable in view of the fact that they had never before had· a· visit
or instruction from the Grand Lecturer.
This speaks well for our good Brother Inspector Tucker, who
attends the Grand Lodge regularly and carries home the ritualistic
work to those loyal Brethren of the Islands.
It certainly is a great source of gratification to be now installed
in our new home, our beautiful new Masonic Temple, which we have
all looked forward to with pleasant anticipation. The completion and
dedication of this imposing structure can not help but make us all
feel proud that we are Masons and members of this grand institution
whose motto is the Brotherhood of Man and the Fatherhood of God.
I desire to thank the V.". W.". Grand Secretary and his Assistant
for the many courtesies extended to me during the year.

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

_Lod$'es of instruction have been held at the following places 'and
times:
1912
Davis, December 3.
Los Angeles, October 13.
McCloud, October Zl.
Chico, December 5.
Dunsmuir, October 2.8.
Marysville, December 6.
Sant~ Rosa, December 8.
Willows, October 29.
Guerneville, December 9.
Benicia, October 31.
Cloverdale, December 10.
Oakland, November 3.
Healdsburg, December 11.
Fortuna, November 6.
San Leandro, December 14.
Ferndale, November 7.
Palo Alto, December 15.
Eureka, November 8.
Los Banos, December 16.
Bakersfield, November 17.
Newman, December 17.
Los Angeles, November 23-24.
Turlock, December 18.
Pasadena, November 25.
Modesto, December 19.
Azusa, November 26.
Sacramento, December 22-23.
Long Beach, November Zl.
Stockton, December 1.
Roseville, December 28.
Woodland, December 2.
Auburn, December 29.
Livermore, January 4-5.
San Francisco, January 10.
Berkeley, January 12.
Vacaville, January 14.
Dixon, January 15.
Benicia, January 16.
Pittsburg, January 17.
Richmond, January 18.
?l.Jartinez, January 19.
Colusa, January 22.
Orland, January 23.
Corning, january 24.
Tehama, January 25.
Red Bluff, January 26.
Winters, January 29.
Fresno, February 2.
Kingsburg, February 3.
Dinuba, February 4.
Exeter, February 5.
Lindsay, February 6.
Porterville, February 7.
·Lemoore, February 8.
Coalinga, February 9.
Hanford, February 10.

1913
Tehachapi, February 11.
Taft, February 12.
Delano, February 13.
San Diego, February 14-15-16.
La Mesa, February 17.
Anaheiip, February 18.
Huntington Beach, February 19.
Orange, February 20.
Colton, February 21.
Needles, February 22-23.
Redlands, February 24.
San Jacinto, February 25.
Riverside, February 26.
Chino, February 27.
Ontario, February 2.8.
Calexico, March 1.
Imperial, March 2.
Holtville, March 3.
Whittier, March 4.
Downey, March 5.
El Monte, March 6.
Monrovia, March 7.
Wilmington, March 8.
Los Angeles, March 9.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Long Beach, March 10.
South Pasadena, March 11.
Pasadena, March 12.
Hollywood, March 13.
Eagle Rock, March 14.
Ocean Park, Mardi 15.
Visalia, March 25.
Dinuba, March 26.
Merced, March 28.
San Francisco, April 1.
Arbuckle, April 4.
Stony Ford, April 5-6.
Salinas, April 9.
Guadalupe, April 11.
Ventura, April 12-13.
Benicia, April 16.
Madison, April 19.
San Francisco, April 21.
Willits, April 29.
Ukiah, April 30.
Hollister, May 2.
Los Gatos, May 3.
San Jose, May 4.
Gridley, May 5.
Marysville, May 6.
Hammonton, May 7.
Wheatland, May 8.
Lincoln, May 9.
Pinole, May 10.
Brentwood, May 11.
St. Helena, May 13.
Calistoga, May 14.
Napa, May 15.
Stockton, May 19.
Millville, May 30.
Igo, May 31.
Redding, June I.
San Francisco, June 2.
Lakeport, June 4.
Merced, June 6.
liornitos, June 7.
i\.{ariposa, June 8.
Modesto, June 9.
Sonora, June 11.

San Andreas, June 12.
Mokelumne Hill, June 13.
Sutter Creek, June 14.
Lompoc, June 16.
Santa Barbara, June 17.
Fillmore, June 18.
Santa Paula, June 19.
Santa Maria, June 23.
San Luis Obispo, June 24.
San Miguel, June 25.
King City, June 26.
Watsonville, June Zl.
Monterey, June 2.8.
Santa Cruz, June 29.'
Honolulu, July 8-13-14-15.
Hilo, July 10.
Fort Bragg, July 25.
Mendocino, July 26.
Point Arena, July 27-2.8.
Petaluma, July 29.
San Rafael, July 30.
Dutch Flat, August 4.
Alturas, August 6-9-10.
Fort Bidwell, August 7.
Cedarville, August 8.
Susanville, August 11.
San Francisco, August 15.
Berkeley, August 17.
Fort Bragg, August 18.
Willits, August 19.
Eureka, August 2~21.
Crescent City, August 22-23.
Yreka, August 25.
Dunsmuir, August 26-Z'i.
Redding, August 28.
Willows, August 29.
Arbuckle, August 30.
Alameda, August 31.
Bodie, September 3-4.
Bishop, September 5-6.
Big Pine, September 7.
Independence, September 8.
Colfax, September 11.
Grass Valley, September 12.

101

101!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Nevada City, September 13.
Camptonville, September 14.
Alleghany, September 15.
Downieville, September 16.
Sierraville, September 17.
Loyalton, September 18.
Beckwith, September 19.
Greenville, September 20.

Quincy, September 21.
La Porte, September 22.
Oroville, September 23. .
Oakland, September 25.
Sacramento, September 27.
Placerville, September 28.
El Dorado, September 29.
San Francisco, October 12-13.

I desire to exp.ress my gratitude and appreciation to the Grand
Lodge and the Brethren for the honor conferred upon me and trust
that I have been worthy of your confidence.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS

J. BAKER,
Grand Lecturer.

The Grand Master announced that as special order for
Wednesday, at 2 o'clock, memorial services would be held
in honor of the late Past Grand Master Henry Sayre Orme,
Grand Bible Bearer William Schuyler Moses and Grand
Treasurer Ed ward Coleman.
The Grand Master also fixed Thursday at 2 o'clock
as special order for the oration of William Rhodes Hervey, Grand Orator.
The report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes was
then presented, and printed copies being in the hands of
the representatives, consideration thereof was deferred.
The report is as follows:
REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith submits, for your consideration and approval, its annual report for
the year ending September 30, 1913.
The M:. w:. Grand Master reappointed M:.- w:. Motley H.
Flint a Trustee, vice self, term expired, and the Board held its annual
meeting at the office of the · Grand Secretary, on October 26, 1912,
re-elected William S. Wells president, Motley H. Flint vice-president
and Elmer E. Stone secretary, and has, during the year, held regular
and special meetings, at both Decoto and San Gabriel.

lOll

The reports of the Secretary, Superintendent and Accountants are
herewith presented, made a part of this report and referred to for a
more particular statement of the financial and general condition of both
Homes.
At the request of the Grand Secretary and in o~der to conform to
his books, we have closed our financial stat~ment this year on July 31st,
and hereafter our financial year will correspond with that of the Grand
Secretary, and will run from August 1st to July 31st. Our general
report, however, will continue to be for the year ending September 30th.
We are pleased to report that, in our opinion, the water question
at Decoto has been solved and we have an ample supply. We continued our prospecting in which we were engaged and, as reported to the
Grand Lodge in our last report, by going down 250 feet in the fiat by
the barn without finding any large gravel strata, only two small beds
about one foot in thickness, which produced some little water, but not
sufficient. We then went to the fiat in the southeast~rly corner, near
the front line of our property on the County Road, and put down a
well, the log of which is as follows : Black adobe, 6 feet; clay and
rock, 12 feet ; yellow clay, 57 feet; water gravel, 1 foot;
yellow c.lay, 19 feet ; water gravel, 17 feet; yellow clay, 5
feet, makmg a total depth of 117 feet, which, upon test, developed 180
gallons a minute for seventy-two hours' run ; the water level, at the
commencement of the test, standing at 64 feet 6 inches from the surface and at the end 68 feet from the surface, which in a dry year, with
present conditions existing in the locality, would seem to assure us an
abundance. This well is twelve inches in diameter and has a double
casing with cement between for· the first forty feet, and we have been
pumping into the reservoirs since June 20th and all of them are full,
and kept full without any trouble, which means a total of 673,141 gallons OO' hand at all times, the capacity of the reservoirs being as follows:
Larize reservoir on the hill.............:._..........~- ............446,000 gallons
Small reservoir on the hill .......-·······-.:.·---........,..177,141 gallons
New concre~e tank or reservoir ................................ 50,000 gallons
Immediately upon being assured of ample water, we prepared plans
for a pipe line, pumping plant, boiler house, laundry and ice plant and
let contracts for same, and now have everything completed and ready
to operate.
We have built a concrete tank of 50,000 gallons' capacity, located
on the hill just below and easterly . of the main building, and we pump
from the well into this tank with electric power, using the water from
this for the entire fiat and all points below and the barns and chicken
yards. .We pt•mp from this reservoir · to the tWo reservoirs on the hill
with a steam pump, located in the heating plant.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

lOE

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The contract price fo~ all this work was:
Pumps, pipe line, boilers, power and beating ~ant............$20,595
Buildings and tank -·---·····-··-·-··············-····-··············-········ 9,800
Refrigerating machinery -····-··························-··············-········ 1,400
Laundry machinery ·········-·············-··················--···-·- ·-·-····-· 1,980
Making a total of.·--····--'··················-···············-·-···········-······-$33.77$
The improvements are all permanent and first class in all respects,
and will, we feel, meet the approval of the fraternity.
The stone steps in front and on the sides of the main building
have been settling and cracking and, upon investigatic"on, we discovered
that they had no foundation, resting upon the adobe and not. going
down to bedrock. They have had to be torn out and rebuilt at quite
an expense.
Plans have been adopted and work on the new dormitory building
will soon be commenced, so that, by next year, we feel that we will
have accommodations for al! applicants.
The action of the Grand Lodge of last year, in providing for the
additional fifty cents per capita for building purposes, has enabled the
Board to provide and plan permanent improvements of a substantial
character that will be an ornament and a credit, and not temporary or
a makeshift, as in the past, and we feel that in a couple of years all
money necessary to put the institutions in first class condition will be
obtained and the tax can then be removed. A continuance, however, of
the same for a time will be the only way we can obtain sufficient funds
to continue our improvements and obtain the results contemplated.
The manner of handling our fuel oil at the railroad has been very
unsatisfactory, as we have no plant of our own and have to depend on
others, and, while it is quite an inconvenience at times, Mr. Salz has
taken care of it for us at his private plant as best ·he could. We
propose to remove the present oil tank to Decoto and put up a complete plant of our own to take care of our fuel oil, which will give
us a storage capacity of 15,000 gallons at the depot, in addition to our
storage at the Home. This will necessitate a pump and an electric
motor and a building of some kind to house it.
Immediately upon finding water, we bad same analyzed and found
it to be a first class water for drinking purposes. Upon the completion
of the well, we had another analysis made, with the same result. After
filling the reservoirs and pumping out of the well for some three
months, and finding the water somewhat troublesome in the boilers and
hot-water backs in the range, we had another analysis made, which was
practically the same and is as follows :

.,

Grains per
U. S. Gallon.s
Total Mineral Ingredients ·················-·································-····--····"-··38.431
Composed ofSilicon Dioxide .................................................................... 0.179
Iron and Aluminum Oxides ............................................ 0.595
Calcium Carbonate ..............................................................18.964
Magnesium Carbonate ........................................................ 8.015
Calcium Sulphate ................................................................ Z.115
Magnesium Sulphate ······························-······················-·· 0.742
Sodium Chloride ····························································-···· 7.758
Undetermined·······-······················-················-·········--·~·-···· 0.063
38.431

Free Ammonia, 0.030 part per million parts of the water.
Albuminoid Ammonia, 0.066 part per million parts of the water.
Nitrites, none.
Nitrates traces.
The following quotation from the report of the analytical chemists
will explain the conditions better :
"From the point of view of a potable water, this sample leaves but
little to be desired. The total salinity would generally be considered
high, but in this case the nature of the mineral ingredients-nearly 27
grains per gallon of carbonates-is such as to make the water more
palatable than otherwise, while contributing nothing of an unpleasant
or undesirable character.
"From the most important point of view-its freedom from deleterious organic matter-the water leaves nothing to be desired, and is
unhesitatingly recommended for drinking purposes.
"The chlorine content, interpreted as sodium chloride (common
salt), is generally, when as large as in this sample, associated either
with pollution from animal organic matter (in which event the 'free
ammonia' is invariably high), or occurs in waters found in close proximity to the sea. It is very probable that in the Masonic Home water
the chlorine is present, principally, as chlorides of calcium and magnesium, a fact which is, however, of no particular moment in the present
connection, and which there is not now time to determine, so that in
my report I have made the interpretation usual with chemists.
"Turning, now, to the use of the water where a sufficient temperature is applied, and we have quite another story, as your recent experience has shown, and as we saw when at the Home on Monday last.

107

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"The calcium and magnesium contained in the water (the carbonates of which make up 70 per cent of the total weight of mineral
ingredients remaining on evaporation) exist originally as the bicarbonates of these elements, and on heating the excess of cax bon dioxide is
driven off and the normal carbonates, which are insoluble in water, are
precipitated.

ized to sell this property and purchase a similar property, unimproved,
which would possess all the requirements of our institution..
The management at San Gabriel is good. All employees take a
deep interest in the institution and the children seem to inspire all connected with the Horne with a thorough spirit of working to their general
welfare. Much fruit and berries were put up this season and the gardens are in the best condition for years.
More interest in the Hornes is being manifested yearly and a larger
number of members of the fraternity are visiting and inspecting the
Hornes, many offering valuable suggestions and advice, an~ to these we
tender our sincere thanks, as well as to all who have contributed to our
Christmas fund and donated gifts.
The Superintendent and matrons have performed their duties with
zeal and fidelity and have materially aided us in the work.
we recommend that the usual per capita tax of one dollar be levied
tor the maintenance of the Hornes.

106

"It is thus seen that in forming the deposit which has caused so
much annoyance the water simply follows natural laws which we cannot alter. But we can, by chemical means, cause the precipitation to
occur in a more convenient place and at a more convenient time, and
by sending a heated water ·of low carbonate content through the pipes
avoid the possibility of what would otherwise be a serious and· expensive
inconvenience.
"The means to which I refer is by the addition of lime to the water,
the operation being what is called a softening process, and effects the
removal of the so-called 'temporary hardness'-as that caused by calcium and magnesium carbonates is known, as distinguished from the
'permanent hardness' which results from the presence of sulphates."
From this it will be seen ,that some kind of a plant will have to be
provided for softening this water before it can be used in the boiler
and hot water system without danger of filling up the pipes and ca us-·
ing damage and expense.
The property at San Gabriel is in as good order as the age of the
improvements permits. The expense for repairs has been light, and no
new improvements have been found necessary or advisable. The resolution of the Grand Lodge of last year to erect fireproof buildings for
the children in the near future would make any extended improvement
ill-advised until definite plans of the.new improvement were determined,
that all improvements might be in harmony.
A local condition has arisen which gives the Board some little concern in regard to our schooling facilities and the expense of taxes on
the property. The town of San Gabriel recently incorporated and thelines of the city were so run as to take our institution within their city
limits. There are many unsatisfactory features in this arrangement.
Our building is a large one and it is the opinion of the Board that better
value can be realized by selling the building than by wrecking it when
the new buildings are contemplated. Our grounds are attractive and
we believe a sale could be made of our improved property for sufficient amount to purchase similar property near the present site and
supply half the fund for the new buildings. Besides the financial advantages, we would be relieved of the possible annoyance of unnecessary
regulation by ordinances of an incorporated city. We recommend,
therefore, if deemed expedient by your Trustees-, that they be author-

Fraternally submitted,
WILLIAM ~- WELLS,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
ELMER E. STONE,
Enw ARD B. SPENCER,
THOS. FLINT.

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

109

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA,
SECRETARY'S REPORT.

DECOTO AND SAN GABRIEL, CALIFORNIA.

San Francisco, California, September 29, 1913.
To the Board of Trustees, Mas~ic Homes of California:
Gentlemen: Herewith I submit my annual report as your Secretary for the eleven months ended July 31, 1913, making the report of
the Accountants my financial report.
Fraternally yours,

General Balance Sheet, July 31, 1913.

ELMER E. STONJ!,

Secretary.
San Francisco, California, September 29, 1913.
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of Caeifomia:
Gentlemen 0 We have audited the accounts of the Masonic Homes
of California for the eleven' months ·ended July 31, 1913, and following upon our last similar audit, and have presented our complete report thereof, embracing statements exhibiting in full detail
the financial position and financjal operations of the Homes to the
date of July 31, 1913.
We now present herewith abstract; from the said complete report, embracing Balance Sheet as at July 31, 1913, Statement Showing the Increases in the Funds During the Eleven Months as Appears by the said Balance Sheet and including the General Income
and Expenditure Account, and also Statement of the Total Cash
Receipts and Disbursements for the eleven months, which we certify
to be prepared properly from the accounts as shown by the books.
We have verified the Income from reports submitted by the
Superintendent; the Expenditure by examination of properly approved
vouchers, accompanied by supporting invoices or other documents,
and the funds on deposit in banks by examination of Bank Statements. We have not verified the securities or cash of the Permanent
Endowment Fund, the Decoto and San Gabriel Revolving Funds
or the Cash Account of F. B. Hartman, Trustee.
We are, Gentlemen,
Faithfully yours,
LEsTJtR, HERRICK & H!RRICK,

Certified Public Accountants.

ASSETS.

Cash : Sundry Funds ····-························..................$ 22,561.76
Funeral Expense Account : Due from Sundry
Lodges ..........................................................................
139.50
Permanent Endowment Fund : Securities, accrued interest and cash-.......................................... 34,746.23
Supply and Sundry Equipment Inventories........ 9,641.50
Decoto Real Estate, Improvements and Equipment .............................................................................. 270,283.96
San Gabriel Real Estate, Improvements and
Equipment .................................................................. 70,800.00
Real Estate Investments ............................................ 1,900.00
Advanced Expense:
San Gabriel Insurance
960.00
. Unexpired ..................................................................

$411,032.95
LIABILlTn:s.

Vouchers Payable ... ·-····--····--~................................$ 5,522.79
Residents' Personal Deposits .................................... 1,073.80
Special Rule No. 16 Fund.......................................... 4,267.40
Head Stone Fund ..........................................................
800.00
ltntertainment Fund .................................................... 1,469.49
Capital .............................................................................. 397,899.47
'Permanent Endowment Fund............
$ 34,746.23
Aug. 31, 1912......................................$ 33,297.86
Increase in 11 Mos............................ 1,448.37
General Fund ........................................
Aug. 31, 1912......................................$332,690.94
Increase in 11 Mos............................ 19,433.52

352, 124.46

Operating ................................................
Aug. 31, 1912......................................$ 18,350.41
Decrease in 11 Mos............................ 7,321.63

11,028.78

.,

$411,032.95

in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

110

DECOTO AND SAN GABRIEL, CALIFORNIA.
ANALYSIS OF CAPITAL INCREASES IN
INCLUDING

INCOME

AND

11 MONTHS ENDED JULY 31, 1913,

$ 1,448.37
$ 1,498.97
50.60
$50.00
.60

General Fund Capital......:...........................................
Contribution from Operating Fund, constituting
increase investment ...........:\-······-----------·-···-$ 19,433.52

$ 19,433.52

General Fund Operating...........................................Contribution from Grand Lodge..............................$ 5,000.00
Per Capita Tax ............................................................ 48,545.00 ·
Donations and Contributions.................................... 4,339.95
1,035.49
Interest ····-·····---------------------·--···--····---·--------··--644.76
Farm Produce -••••••••a.••••••••••••••••U••••••...o••••·---·•-•••-

$ 59,565.20
Less ..........................................................---········--··Decoto Home Operation................... .$ 28,001.24
San Gabriel Home Operation............ 15,155.93
2,784.49
General Expense --------·········-···········--·
San Gabriel Special Repairs .............. 1,511.65

STATEMENT OF 'l'OTAL RECEIPTS

AND

DISBUll.SEMl!NTS.

September 1, 1912, to July 31, 1913.

EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT

AS PER BALANCE SHEET.

Permanent Endowment · Fund......... .
Interest on Bonds and Deposits........
Less .......................................................Amortization of Bond Premium ...... ..
Miscellaneous ........................................

GENERAL

47,453.31

$ 12,111.89 .
Less Contribution to General Fund Capital........ 19,433.52

Balance on hand, September 1, 1912........................
$ 23,862.39
General Fund ................ -···-·-···--·····--·--·•······--····-.$ 16,799.91
Special Rule No.' 16 Fund....·-··--········--·················· 3,981.40
Entertainment Fund ..........................:......................... 1,890.58
Residents' Deposit Fund..............................................
630.50
Head Stone Fund.....................- ...... .:...........................
560.00
Receipts ............................................................................
General Fund ···························-················-·--·--····..$ 67,904.75
Special Rule No. 16 Fund..........................................
381.40
Residents' Deposits Fund........---······-------· ...... 1,051.70
Head Stone Fund............,.....................·-·-··-·-····-240.00

69,5n.85

7,321.63
Disbursements ..............................................................
General Fund --·-·--·--·-·--------·----············.$ 75,276.38
Special Rule No. 16 Fund.·-····----·--··--·---·----·--··
95.40
Entertainment Fund ....................................................
421.09
Residents' Deposit Fund............................................
608.40
Balance on hand July 31, 1913..................................
General Fund ······-··············-·--·-··---·--·····-,.............$
Special Rule No. 16 Fund..----------······--··················
· Entertainment Fund ................................................... .
Residents' Deposit Fund..............................................
Head Stone Fund...................- ..................................

$ 17,038.97
9,428.28
4,267.40
1,469.49
1,073.80
800.00

Disposition ......................................................................
Balance with Grand Treasurer ...............................$ 14,025.43
Crocker National Bank........-................................. 5,712.53
Revolving Funds .......................................................... 1,750.00
F. B. Hartman, Trustee...................'.................:......... 1,073.80

$ 22,561.76
Less Checks Outstanding (Vouchers Payable)....

$ 93,440.24
76,401.27

5,522.79

17,038.97

112

PROCEEJ?INGS OF THE

SUPERINTENDENT'S REPORT.
Decoto, Alameda County, Cal., October 1, 1913
To the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California:

Gentlemen : The undersigned presents the fifteenth annual re
port as Superintendent of the Masonic Homes of California.
The past year at the Decoto . and San Gabriel H?mes has been
a most prosperous one. The new permanent buildings, improvements and repairs made will enable the Homes to give a higher
standard of service in the care of the older and younger wards of
the fraternity. A good family spirit prevails and every effort is
being made by the management to realize by conscientious and patient
work, the cherished ideals of our fraternal Homes.
To the older ~embers, wqo, enfeebled by advancing years, are
unable to leave their Home for social recreation, entertainments and
diversions of various kinds are provided, to brighten the daily routine
of their lives.
To the younger members, both in their home and school life,
every influence possible is brought to bear, to prepare them for
future careers of usefulness. All the members of our large family
are encouraged to render some service in keeping with their strength,
for the upbuilding of the Homes and in their leisure hours, to interest themselves in healthful and wholesome enjoyments, in and
out-of-doors, for their physical, mental and moral well-being.
DECOTO.
Since last report 24 persons have been admitted to the Decoto
Home; 19 have passed away and there have been 2 departures.
There are now present at the Home 75 men and 39 women. Every
room is occupied and as admissions can only be made as vacancies
occur, the need for additional room is most urgent to meet the
demands of the Lodges throughout the jurisdiction.
The health of the Home has been good, with the exception of
those who by reason of age, are becoming infirm and helpless.
The openi~g of the Coleman Hospital, thoroughly equipped with
all the advanced medical and sanitary devices, enables our physician
and trained nurses to give to those who are ill, the very ·best medical
attention. There are now twelve members of the family being cared
for at the hospital.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

113

The new refrigerating plant enables the Home to properly care
for a large supply of meat, milk, butter, eggs and vegetables, and
manufacture at the same time all the ice for our needs.
The new steam plant supplies all the steam heat and hot water
for present demands and is large ...nough to care for the requirements of the future. It also· furnishes power for the pumping of
water to the large reservoirs and for the operation of the new
laundry.
The new laundry is equipped with the latest improved Troy
laundry machinery and can handle all . the needs of the Home for
many years to come. The laundry work has been done by contract
and has not been satisfactory. The operation of our own plant will
turn out better work at a far less cost.
The recent development of water on the flat, an inexhaustible
supply, has solved for all time the water problem. The newly built
reservoir situated south of the main building, furnishes water for
irrigation, and the water in the old reservoirs can be piped to any
part of the home property, making possible the planting of trees,
lawns, flower and vegetable gardens, alfalfa fields, and affords plenty
of water for fire protection. Owing to the dry season and the continued shortage of water from the springs, the returns from the farm
have not been good this year, and the walks, roads, lawns and gardens have received but little attention.
The greater portion of the hill part of the ranch has been leased,
either on shares or cash rental The hay crop was somewhat short
and the quantity raised was not equal to last year's crop. A brooder
house and several chicken houses have been added to ' the chicken
ranch. An incubator has been purchased and a large number of
chickens, ducks and turkeys have been hatched and raised. The
chicken and hog ranch and dairy have also been improved and given
good returns. The vegetable gardens have been enlarged and sup~
plies a variety of fresh vegetables for the table and plenty of greens
for the farmyard.
·
The orchards produced a fair crop of fruit, all over and above
the needs of the Home was sold in the San Francisco market. The
berry garden has furnished a good supply of berries for table use
and preserves. A large quantity of fruit has been preserved for
winter use by the ladies of the Home, and much of the mending
and making of household linen has · also been done by them. A.
number of the brethren have contributed to the welfare of the ·
Home by their labors in the carpenter, tailor, shoe· and barber
shops, and in light work in a general way.
·
All the mattresses and pillows throughout the Home have been
made over and encased in new ticking.

lH

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A fully equipped barber shop has been presented to the Home
by the Lodges of the 39th District. At their expense, a room in
the Annex building has been plastered, tinted and the wainscoting
has been white enameled, electric fixtures installed the floor covered
with linoleum. The shop has been fitted out wlth a wa~h stand,
hot and cold water faucets, hydraulic barber chair, buffet stand, cup
and brush case, two large mirrors, chairs, shaving and hair cutting
tools, towels, etc. It has supplied a great need at the Home, for which
the brethren are very grateful.
The library has been enlarged and 300 books, wnich have been
donated, have been placed on the shelves". The reading rooms have
been well supplied with magazines and daily papers.
Each Saturday afternoon throughout the year, a moving picture and musical entertainment has been given at the Temple. The
usual services on Sunday have also been held. A Home reading
club has been organized, regular meetings are held in the Assembly
hall. This gathering is specially for the benefit of those, who by
reason of failing sight, are unable to read. The subjects for reading are carefully selected. All of these meetings are well attended.
Many entertainments have been given for the pleasure and benefit
of the family by Lodges, members of Lodges and their ladies. All ·
holidays have been observed in the usual way. The following is a
list of those who have contributed to our enjoyment: Members of
Sequoia Lodge No. 349, with their ladies; the Country Club of Washington Township;. Nobles of Islam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S., with
their ladies; concert by the Islam Shrine Band; Oakland Lodge No.
188, with their ladies; Hon. J. R. Knowland, Panama lecture illustrated with stereopticon views ; Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 ; Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243; Sequoia Lodge No. 349, each conferred a
third degree at the Temple. A musical concert by the Pasmore Sisters. Most Worshipful Grand Master, William Parker Filmer as:.
sisted by Grand Lecturer, Thomas J. Baker, and the Inspecto~s of
the San Francisco Districts and .Bay Counties, exemplified the work
in the third degree at the Temple for the benefit of the brethren
of the Home. Also a number of small socials have been held among
the residents of the Home from time to time.

the splendid moral atmosphere created by. our most capable Matron,
and her able corps of assistants at the Home.
To the average visitor, the term "uneventful," as used above,
might seem a serious misnomer. The daily scene of from fifty to
sixty healthy, hearty, happy children, romping through their be>iu·
tiful grounds, singing at their work, ambitious and energetic in their
accomplishments taught them at the Home, striving for the perfect
in their music, their drills, and their school work, presents a continuous moving picture of the real joy of child life. The infrequency of disobedience of any kind, or even little quarrels among
themselves, or the display of selfishness in a child in sharing. his
playthings or provisions, is a condition rarely to be found in the
best governed families.
This year has experienced many changes in the personnel of
the children. The interest manifested by many of our well-to-do
Masons in providing places for our boys who become fourteen years
of age, is growing so that we have not boys enough to meet the
demand. The Board have determined their choices in placing the
boys, not by merit of the Mason making the request, but by selecting a position possessing conditions and environments, which in
their judgment were best suited to the temperament of the boy.
In this manner our boys are thrown in the hands of good men,
who are deeply interested in their present welfare and future success.
All of our boys who have left the Home in the care of Masons
are continuing their schooling, and advancing in their business
training, with one exception, and this boy, the Board feels, has had
his lesson and will not repeat his indiscretion. All the boys are
in touch at all times with some member of the Board and we are
in that manner able to keep in touch with their successes and ready
to assist in case any reverse or misfortune should be encountered.
While no general rule can be adopted for the care of our older
girls, and no general provision applicable to all can be made, it has
fortunately occurred with each girl as she approached the age that
she should · leave tlie home, that an opportune condition arose which
provided for her in the most suitable manner. There are now 35
boys and 24 gi~ls at the Home, making a total of 59 children.
·
The Camping Trip for the children at Balboa Beach in Orapge
County, was positively the event of the year. We can not even except
Christmas. The children own their own tents and camp equipment,
which was purchased by using a portion of the fund so kindly .. ~nd·
generously donated by the various Lodges and Masonic Bodies at
Christmas time. A portion of this is used each year to cover the
expenses of the Camp for the children, but all provisions, clothing,
etc., are naturally charged to the maintenance fund, the same as if

SAN GABRIEL.
Our home for the children at San Gabriel has experienced an
active, pleasant and most successful ye3r, and yet we may say, almost uneventful as far as concerns anything unusual in their home
life. The prevailing good discipline, and the thoroughness of our
11ystem, of which we are particularly proud, gives little opportunity
for either accidents or the advent of outside influences to destroy

-

1H5

117

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

they were used at the Home. Ordinarily, there would be great
responsibility attached to moving such a number of children, either
to the beach or to the mountains, where they are exposed to so
many chances of accident and danger, but our children are so dependable we feel no concern at all in the undertaking.
The general improvement in the accomplishments of the children
is most encouraging. The boys are clever and accurate in their
work, quick in perception and intelligent in execution. Their cadet
drill rivals m ny Shrine Patrol companies and in all mechanical work
they display much skill. They are not lazy or procrastinating, and
cultivate a courteous and kindly behavior at all times.
The girls have advanced in music, sewing and art work, as well
as being proficient in all the essential duties of caring for a home.
The parlors, . reading rooms and other parts of the building give
constant evidence of their usefulness. Beautiful pieces of embroidery,
crochet work, pillow covers, tapestry, and attractive drawings display the industry of fifty or more busy little hands.
The Board desires to commend most heartily the work of our
piano instructor, Mrs. Lela Buckh<!,m, who practically donates her
services, and devotes so much time to the work. The children love
her and reward her with good results on the piano. We will lose
Miss Olcott this year, as she has accepted a position in a school
in Cleveland. She leaves the Mandolin Club, however, in splendid
position to continue their work themselves for awhile.
Visitations at the Home by members of the Grand Lodge and
of the various lodges of California are fruitful of good results. The
children are taught that they are indebted to the Masons of California for their care, and they are pleased when those taking an
interest in them caU at their Home. Most Worshipful William P.
Filmer, our Grand Master, has called almost every time he came
to Los Angeles. The children feel they know him and his .cordial
handshake and cheerful manner will never be forgotten. Brother
Baker, our Grand Lecturer, enjoys a big place in their hearts, and
his visits are anticipated with much pleasure. Past Grand Master
Brother WeUer, and Brother Whicher, have also won strong favor
with them by their continued interest and visits with them.
A notable visit each year is. that of the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles. The first Sunday of May the Board holds its
meeting in the parlors of the Home, and after Sunday School the
children provide a program for the Board whicl} invariably inspires
interest with the Lodges constituting this Boar<l. This also gives the
officers of the Lodges of Los Angeles an opportunity to see the
children at home, visit all portions of the building and grounds, and

become more intimately acquainted with this feature of the work of
our great Order.
Other entertainments of the year, aside from the general observance of Patriotic and other holidays and anniversaries, which
were celebrated with programs or exercises appropriate to the occasion, were about as foUows, including visi~ations of the different
Bodies:
Sept. 15, 1912. Visit of Sout hern California Lodge No. 278,
P. G. M. James A. Foshay, in behalf of the Lodge presented a case
for phonograph records. T he children responded with a good program.
Oct. 7, 1912. Members of the Grand Lodge of California visited
the Home. A Barbecue was arranged by the local Lodges, which
was followed by a patrol drill by the boys, and hoop drill by the
girls, and other features of the program provided by the children.
Grand Lodge members visited the building and grounds.
Oct. 27, 1912. ·Visit of Sunset Lodge No. 352. Program furnished by both the Lodge and children. Refreshments were provided by
the Lodge.
Nov. 5, 1912. Alhambra 0 . E. S. entertained the children at six
o'clock dinner and a good program. The boys gave their cadet drill.
Feb. 22, 1913. Southland Chapter 0. E. S. visited the Home.
Gave the children auto rides and supplied refreshments for lawn ·.
party in the afternoo~. The children gave them a good program.
Ma~ch 1, 1913. Alhambra Lodge No. 322 furnished autos and
took the childrer. to a picture show.
March 22, 1913. P atrol Boys of Al Malaikah Sirrine took the
children to Shrine Circus. Boys gave drill in Patrol uniform.
May 21, 1913. Children's Day celebration at Alhambra. Well
entertained and fed.
June 21, 1913. The children attended the reception given to .
Most Worshipful William P arker Filmer, Grand Master of Masons
of California, at Shrine Auditorium. The boys gave their cadet drill
in uniform and the girls' Mandolin Club were weU received with
their portion of the program.
June 26, 1913. Southland Chapter 0 . E. S. took children in autos
to motion pictures in Pasadena.
July 5, 1913. South Gate Lodge No. 320 called in autos and
took the children on a ride through a number of the suburban places
and lunched in Griffith Park, where the afternoon was spent in
picnicking.
July 19, 1913. Southern California Lodge No. 278 took the children in autos to the beach at Venice and Santa Monica. They were

116

-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

entertained at the .beach home of Brother H. R. Kells, and given
souvenirs of the occasion. Through the kindness of the members
of Santa Monica and Ocean Park Lodges, all the concessions on
the beach were thro~n open to the full enjoyment of the children.
August 15, 1913. Camp at Balboa, by kindness of donors of the
Christmas fund and others mentioned under donations.
Sept. 2, 1913. Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 of Santa Ana, California, sent a special car to Balboa for the children. They were
taken to a sugar factory, where the children were taken through the
entire plant while in operation. Members of the Lodge then took
the children in autos through this wonderfully productive valley,
arriving at the Masonic Temple in the evening, where the ladies of
Hermosa Chapter No. 105, 0. E. S., had prepared a most delectable
array of eatables for them. After supper a program was supplied,
in which our Santa Ana friends and the children .alternated, and at
9 :15 P. M. took the special car again for the Camp. Santa Ana
occupies a big place in the geography with our children.
The donations to the children this year were liberal, and particularly appropriate to the occasion or season when given. Many,
many minor donations and timely' treats or kindnesses were shown,
that space would not permit recording here, but they gladdened many
little hearts at the time, and the donors were liberally compensated
by the evident gratitude of the children.
Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master of Hollenbeck Lodge, Secretary of the Board of Relief, and active in all lines of work, still
cares for our children in case of illness, and is our constant adviser
in all matters of prevention and cure. He is devoted to the children
and refuses compensation for his work. The Board desires the Grand
Lodge to know how greatly we are indebted to him for his most
necessary and most valuable services.
Closely associated with Dr. Dunsmoor is Mrs. Ola Taylor, who
always attends him in case of an operation for adenoids or enlarged
tonsils or similar troubles; and whose sweet influence and bright
presence mean much to our big family.
Alhambra Lodge, Brother J. N. Hall, its Master, and the ladies
of the Eas"tern Star in Alhambra, are always contributing to the
welfare and comfort of the children.
Brother Alex Culver of Southern California Lodge No. 278
has contributed kindnesses too numerous to mention.
Al Malaikah Shrine are always thoughtful of the children, and
after each banquet the children are given a liberal supply of provisi;ns, and when the character of their entertainment permits, the
children are invited to enjoy it or participate in it.

Most Worshipful Grand Master William Parker Filmer and
members of the ·Grand Lodge have made a number of visits to the
Homes, also many of the brethren and friends interested in our
welfare have spent pleasant hours with us.
I wish to extend to the Matrons my appreciation of the loyal
assistance rendered and the conscientious and painstaking efforts
given to the work in their respective departments.
The Homes are entering a new era of development. The growth
during the past year has enlarged its field of usefulness. To care
for · and bring peace into the lives of those who have passed the
days of Autumn, to guide and train our little ones in the Springtime of their lives, requires a continuation of kind, practical methods
to meet the problems of the coming year, and calls for a renewed
consecration of spirit, crowned with deeds of service.
Respectfully submitted,

118

119

FRANK B. HARTMAN,
Superintendent.
DONATIONS TO DECOTO HOME.

..

Lodges 39th District, barber shop, complete outfit, furniture, tools,
etc.; California Lodge No. 1, hospital wheel chair; Balder Lodge
No. 393, ·1 brass hat and umbrella stand; Sequoia Lodge No. 349, 1
dictionary stand and cigars; Ladies' Club, Santa Cruz Knights Templar, 7 piano player records; Jewel Chapter No. 283, 0. E. S., 1 framed
picture; Ladies Auxiliary, Berkeley Commandery, K. T., 40 ladies'
aprons; Live Oak Lodge No. 61, 3 piano player records; F. L. Hill,
flower garden seeds; H. C. Stovall and G. Comstock, 2 sacks geesr
and ducks; the Seamless Rubber Company, large package rubber
goods ; Hydrox Chemical Company, 1 package drugs; Fred. Hansen,
5 boxes apples, 2 boxes pears; William Cluff Company, candy and
cigars; Paul Rieger, 1 package perfumes, etc. ; Dodge, Sweeney &
Company, 150 packages Crackerjack; R. J. Boyer, 100 cigars; Amapola
Chapter No. 119, 0. E. S., 2 boxes oranges; Mrs. · Mary A. Nevil,
reriodicals; Alexander Rauch, 1 Vol. Fiction; Mr~. Azro ~:. Lew;s,
28 vols. miscellaneous books; E. M. Bransford, magazines and periodicals; W. H. Owen, 31 gramaphone records; C. L. Merrill, 4 vols.
History of Free Masonry; Mrs. A. Bistorius, clothing, hats and
shoes; California Nursery Co., Christmas tree and flowers; Henry
S. Manheim, 100 cigars; M. R. Chamblin, 205 vols. miscellaneous
books; Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Werner, 1 large mirror, clothing;
Edward A. Grau, clothing; P. T. Brown, 1 marble clock and urn;
Geo. T. Lemon, clothing; S. P. Elias, large box of clothing, shirt!'
and underwear; G. W. Richardson, magazines.

120

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Azu~a Chapter 0. E. S. gave each child a half-pound bc;>x of
rhoice candy.
Oroville Chapter, 0. E. S., gave a stocking containing $31.28
which was collected one night at their Chapter meeting.
Mrs. Phillips of Pomona, one sack of· English walnuts. Scottish
Rite Bodies of Pasadena, $25.00 worth of books; McStay Supply Co.,
many favors ; Troy Laundry, one box of apples ; Mitchel & Knox,
Christmas cards and books; T. J. Worthington of Southern California
Lodge, box of raisins; A. E. Snyder, twenty dolls; Cooper, Coate &
Casey, large boxes of samples of dress goods for dolls and twenty
yards of black .sateen; Al Malaikah Shrine, turkeys and baskets of
provisions; University Lodge No. 394, phonograph records, Rover
Boy Series, and Motor Girls series.

DONATIONS TO SAN GABRIEL HOME.
G. A. R. Committee, Pasadena, an express· load of substantial
provisions; Brother A. W. Turpin of Pacific Lodge No. 136, $5.00
for the girls ; Brother John B. Grillo of Volcano Lodge, several
packages of candy; cakes, pastry, etc., sent from committee on Grand
l\fasters' Reception; Brother G. G. Vanderlip, San Rafael Lodge,
$5.00 cash ; Hollywood Chapter 0 . E. S., one dozen comforters ; Cunningham, Curtis & WP\ch Co., Brother H. S. Jones, manager, 24
dozen boxes of pencils ; Harris and Hillebrand, sack of rice, and sack
of beans; Alhambra Lodge, ice cream, punch, cake, etc., from Washington party; John S. McGroarty, tickets for all to Mission Play
at San Gabriel; Creciat Bros., fifty pounds of fish; Brother B. N.
Powers of Hollenbeck Lodge, game warden of Los Angeles County,
gave the children a young deer killed out of season by some person
arrested in his district; Dr. John P. Gilmer of Arlington Lodge,
nine pairs of bedroom slippers; Huntington Park Chapter, 0. E. S.,
twenty-seven bibs, two vases and candy; Mrs. Phoebe Cramer of
Alhambra Chapter, 0. E. S., guitar for girls; Southland Chapter,
0. E. S. of Pasadena, $5.00 for phcinograph records.
Camp Collins-The camp was provided from Christmas funds,
but many friends assisted materially in its success.
W . S. Collins gave the use of Balboa Island for the camp and
supplied water.
Mr. Johnson of Balboa Island Co. took all riding in motor boat.
Brother J. P. Greely gave so many boat rides, treated the children to so much ice cream and candy, and did so n:iany favors, the
children voluntarily called him "Santa Claus" Greely.
Mr. A. L. Reinhart gave the children free access to the Moving
Picture Theater at Balboa.
Brother Thos. J. Baker gave several beach umbrellas for the
camp.
Two ladies gave $1.00 each for refreshments for the children.
Brother W . J . Lawless of Sierra Madre Lodge gave $20.00 cash
for the camp.
The Pacific Electric Railway Co., through Mr. D. W. Pontius,
furnished a special car to take the children to the Beach, and sent
another when they were ready to come home. This k;ndness aclrlf'd
mt·ch to making the trip possible, particularly as the camp was over
fifty miles from the Home.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0 . E. S., of Hanford, Califcrnia, sends
a box each year containin'? a present for each child. The box this
year was particularly welf chosen fn its contents.

121

...

CHRISTMAS DONATIONS, 1912.
Lcidge.
No. Amt.
Lodge.
No. Amt.
Abell ............................ 146........$10.00 Carquinez ....................337........ 5.00
Alamo .......................... 122........ 5.00 Charity ........................362........ 4.00
Alameda ...................... 167........ 5.00 Charter Rock ..............410........ 10.00
Alcatraz ........................244........ 10.00 Chico ....................:....... 111........ 10.00
Alpha ······-··········-·······431........ 5.00 Coalinga ......................387........ 5.00
Alta ..............................333........ 5.00 Concord ...................... 117........ 10.00
Alturas ··-····················248........ 5.00 Confidence ..................203........ 5.00
Amity ..........................370........ 15.00 Colusa ..........................240.. ..... 5.00
Amador ........................ 65 ........ 10.00 Corinthian .................. 9........ 10.00
Anaheim ......................207........ 5.00 Corona ······-················324•.._ 10.00
Antioch ........................175........ 10.00 Crescent ...................... 45........ 5.00
Apollo ..........................396........ 5.00 Crockett ......................139..-~ 25.00
Arcata ...........•.............. 106........ 20.00 Curtis .......................... 140_.._. 5.00
Arlington ....................414........ 40.00 Dinuba ··-····················385 ........ 10.00
Artesia ....._;,..................377........ 10.00 Doric ········-··················216._..... 25.00
Ashlar ..........................306........ 5.00 Dunsmuir ....................297........ 5.00
Bakersfield ..................224........ 25.00 Durant ........................268.....:... 10.00
Bay View ....................401........ 10.00 East Belt ·-·················391........ 5.00
Bear Mountain .......... 76........ 5.00 East Gate ..............:.... 290...._.. 10.00
Benicia .......................... 5........ 10.00 Eden ·······-·-···········-···113........ 5.00
Berkeley ......:...............363........ 10.00 El Centro ....................384........ 5.00
Brooklyn ....................225........ 10.00 Enterprise .................... 70........ 5.00
Buckeye ...................... 19$........ 10.00 Eucalyptus .................243.....•.. 25.00
Buena Park ..............357........ 5.00 Eureka ........:................. 16........ 5.00
Burlingame ................400........ 10.00 Excelsior •...................166.... _.. 25.00
Calexico ......................412..:..... 10.00 Fidelity ......,................. 120........ 25.00
California .................. 1........ 29.50 Forest .......................... 66........ 5.00
Calaveras .................... 78........ 10.00 Franklin ......................143........ 10.00

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No. Amt.
Fresno ..........................247........ 10.00
Friendship ..................210........ 10.00
Fruitvale ··············-····336........ 10.00
Galt ··········-···-··········.267........ 5.00
Golden Gate .............. .. 30........ 20.00
Gold Hill .................... 32........ 10.00
Granite ........................222........ 20.00
Gravel Range ............ 59........ 5.00
Hammerton ................ U.D ..... 10.00
Hanford .....................2:79.·-···· 10.00
Hawaiian .................... 21........ 75.00
Henry Clay ................ 95........ 5.00
Hermann .................... 127........ 15.00
Hesperian ..................264........ 5.00
Highland Park............382........ 10.00
Hill's Ferry ..............236........ 7.50
Hollenbeck ········-········319........ 25.00
Hollywood ..................355 ........ 10.00
Howard ············-········ 96........ 5.00
Humboldt .................... 79........ 10.00
Illinoistown .............. 51........ 10.00
Ione .............................. 80........ 5.00
Jefferson ...................... 97........ 5.00
Jewel ······-····················374........ 5.00
King David's .............209........ 10.00
King Solomon's ........260........ 25.00
La Grange .................. 99........ 10.00
Las Palmas ................366........ 5.00
Liberty ..•....................299........ 10.00
Live Oak .................... 61........ 20.00
Lodi ·····--··········-·······.256........ 10.00
Los Angeles ········-······ 42........ 10.00
Los Gatos -·················.292........ 10.00
Madera ....................280........ 10.00
Madison ...................... 23........ 5.00
Magnolia ....................242.,...... 10.00
Manila ······-··················342........ 50.00
Marin ........................•. 191........ 15.00
McKinley ······-············347........ 5.00
Mendocino .................. 179........ 5.00
Mill Valley ................356........ 25.00
Mission ........................ 1$........ 25.00
Mizpah ........:.................378........ 10.00

Lodge.
No. Amt.
Mokelumne Hill ........298........ 10.00
Molino •..:·-·····-·········-150..•.. _. 5.00
Moneta ··················-···.405........ 5.00
Monrovia _ ··--·········-·108........ 10.00
Monterey ..•....•............217........ 5.00
Mosaic ··-·-·····-·•·--·····.218........ 10.00
Mount Jackson ..........295........ 5.00
Mount Moriah .......... 44........ 50.00
Mountain View ........ 194........ 2.50
Natoma ........................ 64........ 5.00
Naval ............................ 87........ 5.00
Nevada ........................ 13........ 5.00
Nicolaus ......................129........ 5.00
North East ...............266........ 5.00
Norwalk ···················--315........ 5.00
Oak Grove ..........•.......215 ...,.... 5.00
Oakland ........................188........ 10.00
Occidental .................. 22........ 25.00
'Olive Branch ............269........ 10.00
Ontario ..................:.....301........ 5.00
Ophir ............................ 33 ........ 10.00
Oxnard ........................341........ 25.00
Pacific ····················'·····136........ 20.00
Pacific Grove ............331........ 5.00
Pajaro .......................... 110........ 10.00
Palestine ......................351...-... 5.00
Palos Verdes ............389........ 10.00
Parnassus •...................388........ 10.00
Pasadena •.................... 272........ 31.50
Penryn ..,..•..........:-·····258·-······ 5.00
Pentalpha -················202........ 10.00
Phoenix ......................178........ 10.00
Pinole ·-···-··=-·········-··353........ 10.00
Pittsburg ..................-429....- .. 10.50
Plumas ........................ 60........ 5.00
Presidio ......................354......_ 10:00
Redwood City .........:168........ 20.00
Reedley ........................304........ 5.00
Richmond ....................375........ 10.00
Rio Vista -·················.208........ 5.00
Roseville .•.....................432........ 5.00
Sacramento ................ 40........ 10.00
Salinas ....,.....................204........ 2.50

0

GR AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No. Amt.
San Benito ................211........ 5.00
San Diego .................. 35........ 10.00
Sanger ........................316........ 10.00
San Bernardino ........348........ 20.00
San Francisco ..........360........ 10.00
San Jacinto ................338........ 5.00
San Jose .................... 10........ 10.00
San Miguel ................285........ 10.00
San Pedro ..................332........ 5.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 10.00
Santa Monica ............307........ 5.00
San Simeon ..............196........ 5.00
Selma ...........................277........ 10.00
Sequoia ··················-····349........ 10.00
Silveyville ....................201......- 10.00
Silver Gate ··-···········296........ 10.00
Sisson ..........................310........ 5.00
Snow Mountain .......271........ 5.00
Southern California..278 ........ 25.00
So. Pasadena ............367........ 5.00
So. San Francisco ... .212........ 10.00

123

Lodge.
No. Amt.
Speranza Italiana ....219........ 15.00
Stanislaus ..................206........ 10.00
Starr King ................344........ 10.00
Suisun ........•................. 55........ 2.50
Surprise Valley ........235........ 5.11()
Tehachapi •...................313........ 10.00
Tehama ...................... 3........ 25.00
Texas ............,............. 46........ 5.00
Trinity ........................ 27........ 10.00
Truckee ........................200........ 5.00
Tuscan ············-············261......•. 10.00
Union .......................... 58........ 25.00
Unity ............................368.-.:... 5.00
Vacaville ...................•134........ 5.00
Visalia ···········-······-·····128........ 10.00
Washington ................ 20........ 10.00
Willits ..........................365 ........ 10.00
Woodbridge ................131........ 5.00
Woodland ....................156........ 5.00
Islam Temple, A. A.
0. N. M. S............ ........ 50.00

CHAPTER, R. A. M.
Chapter.
No. Amt.
Acacia .......................... 64........$10.00
Alameda ...................... 70........ 5.00
Antioch ........................ 65........ 10.00
Berkeley ·················'···· .92........ 10.00
California .................... 5........ 25.00
Corinthian .................. 51........ 15.00
Dixon .......................... 48........ 10.00
Doric ............................ 66........ 5.00
Fresno .......................... 69........ 10.00
Grass Valley .............. 18........ 5.00
Howard ........................ 14........ 10.00
Hollister ...................... 68........ 5.00
Kern Valley .............:.. 75........ 5.00
La Purissima ............104........ 10.00
Mendocino .................. 88........ 5.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Palo Alto .................... 93:....... 5.00

Chapter.
No. Amt.
Petaluma .................... 22........ 5.00
San Francisco ............ 1........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 3........100.00
Salinas ........................ 59........ 2.50
San Luis ...................... 62........ 5.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 5.00
Shasta .......................... 9 ........ 10.00
Siloam .......................... 37........ 10.00
Signet .......................... 57........ 10.00
Sonora .......................... 2........ 5.00
Stockton ...................... 28........ 10.00
Sutter .......................... 11........ 5.00
Trinity ·········'················ 19........ 10.00
Vacaville .................... 81..._... 5.00
Visalia .......................... 44........ 10.00
Woodland .................... 46........ 5.00
Washington ................ 13........ 10.00

124

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

COMMANDERY, K. T.
Chapter.
No. Amt.
Chapter.
No. Amt.
Berkeley ...................... 42........$10.00 San Luis Obispo ........ 27........ 5.00
California .................... L...... 25.00 San Jose ...................... 10........ 5.00
Eureka ........................ 35 ........ 20.00 ·Santa Cruz ................ 44........ 5.00
Golden Gate .............. 16........ 25.00 St. Omer .................... 30........ 10.00 ·
Golden West .............. 43........ 25.00 Vacaville .................... 38........ 10.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00 Visalia .......................... 215........ 10.00
Palo Alto .................... 47........ 5.00 Woodland .................. 21........ 5.00
Pacific .......................... 3........ 10.00 Watsonville ................ 22........ 10.00
Pasadena .................... 31........ 10.00 Hanford ...................... 46........ 10.00
Red Bluff .................... 17........ 10.00 Mount Olivet .............. 20........ 5.00
Redding ...................... 50........ 13.00 Marysville .................. 7........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 2........ 25.00
COUNCIL, R. & S. M.
Gateway ...................... 13........$ 2.50 Sacramento ................ L...... 10.00
Los Angeles .............. 11........ 10.00
LODGE OF PERFECTION,
A. & A. S. R.
California .................... 10........$25.00 Santa Rosa ................ 57 ........ 11.80
Isaac Davis ................ 4........ 10.00 Stockton ...................... 12........ 10.00
San Francisco ............ 1........ 25.00
CHAPTER, 0. E. S.
Arcata -······················.207........$15.00 Wheatland .................. 48........ 5.00
Naomi .......................... 36•.•..... 25.00
INDIVIDUALS.
E. McCurdy ............................ .50
L. Martin ................................ .50
W. Moorehead ........................ .50
·F. J. Martin.............................. .50
Saul Morris .............................. 1.00
F. B. Patler.............................. .50
G. Rose...................................... .SO
John Which er ........................ 5.00
A. C. Wilson............................ .50
Emil Kirchner ........................ 5.00
E. 0 . Chapman........................ 1.00
W. E. Oliver............................ 2.50
H. L. Dodge .............................. 10.00

Albert G. Burnett................. .$ 2.00
Thos. J. Baker ........................ 10.00
H. Beyer .................................. .50
Edward Coleman .................... 20.00
E. L. Case.................................. .25
F. W. Clough............................ .50
Howard L. Dodge..---············'" 10.00
F. Davey
.............................. .50
C. F. Horner ............................ 50.00
P. Huber .................................. .50
F. B. Hartman ........................ 10.00
Wm. 0. Horobin---·····-········· 2.50
J. L. Agonnarino.................... .50
J. D. Murphy ............... ·-·········· 10.00

125

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME.
The following is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto
Home, the dates of their admission, their respective ages, the names
and the numbers of the Lodges nominating them and the location of
such Lodges:
MEN 75.
NAME.

ADMITl'ED.

Ashburn, Hans A .•.-Vlar.
Aiiderson, C. A ....--Feb.
Andrews, R. .............. Oct.
•ranthaver, D. ........ Jan.
Bradley, John H ........Oct.
Barrett, John M ........ May
Billings, S. M_.........._Sept.
Benson, W. H ............ 3ept.
lartholemew, J. s...... June
Bullier, Leon ............ July
Booth, James G........_ \ug.
Beck, John .................. Aug.
S?astellaw, T. A ........_May
Chamblin, M. R......._ 3ept.
IZbapman, J. M ...........•Oct.
lfiamberlain, Jos. ___ June
Cramer, George F ...... 'v.lay
Dolt, Alexander ........ \fay
Dennis, William ........ E"eb.
Dunning, William __Nov.
Durant, Francis A ...._ May
Frasier, John ············- fune
l;irrington, Elvin ...... Feb.
French, John A ....... _June
Fink, Conrad .............. \ug.
Forbes, Hector ____ fan.
Griffiths, B. J--- \ug.
Hagerdon, C. L---··-fi'eb.
Hallock, R. P--·······-Jan.
Hendrick, Robt. C... _ \ug.
Jensen, Niels p ______ July
Jeffers, S. _ . -·-·····-Jan.
Johns, Josiah ........... _April
Johnson, David ........_Aug.
King, G. D....................Dec.

•

8, '08
9, '09
25, '02
18, '04
12, '07
11, '08
4, '10
13, '10
15, '13
2, '12
30, '13
29, '12
2, '10
28, '10
6, '11
18, '12
11, '13
18, '99
28, '11
24, '11
5, '13
12, '00
9, '08
8, '07
23, '12
15, '13
30, '13
22, '02
7, '10
11, '10
22, '07
5, '10
15, '12
29, '13
7, '11

LODGE

NO.

Nevada ·····-············· 13
Mt. Moriah ............ 44
Stanislaus ..............206
Durant ....................268
Keith ........................ 187
Mt. Shade .............. 18
Tuolumne .............. 8
Salinas ....................204
Mt. Jackson ............ 295
Texas ...................... 46
Oakdale ..................275
Summit ··············----112
Clear Lake ............ 183
Hattley ········-······-·-199
Concord .................. 117
Molino .................... 150
Liberty ....................299
Rising Star ............ 83
Sierra Valley ........ 184
Nevada .................... 13
Fruitvale ................336
Benicia .................... 5
Live Oak .............. 61
Wes tern Star ........ 2
Hermann --··········---127
Jefferson ··-············ 97
Clay ·······-···············101
San Jose ................ 10
lllinoistown .......... 51
Enterprise .............. 70
Golden Gate .......... 30
Eden ........................ 13
East Belt .............. 391
Santa Monica ......307
Porterville ............303

LOCATION

AGE

Nevada City....92
San Francisco.65
Modesto ..........91
Berkeley ..........83
Gilroy -············83
Downieville ....85
Sonora ............89
Salinas ............86
Guerneville ....65
San Juan ........84
Oakdale -·-··-·76
Kt's Ferry...._..81
Lower Lake....75
Lakeport ........85
Sacramento ....63
Tehama ···-·····81
Sal\ta Clara....58
Forest Hill....68
Sierraville ......81
Nevada City....78
Fruitvale ····-··75
Benicia ............86
Oakland ..........79
Shasta ..............79
San Francisco.75
La Porte ..........69
Dutch Flat ......82
San Jose..........75
Colfax ..............78
Yuba City........78
San Francisco.61
San Leandro..75
Tuolumne ......60
Santa Monica..81
Porterville ......83

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

126
NAME.

ADMI'l'TED.

I <.err Earl - .........___Sept.
' James .....-.-Sept.
Keene
'
H. A........-Jan.
Lippoldt
Lavier, 'Frank ---·----·-F eb·
L indsey Orville A....Aug.
Mayer 'Joseph .......:..-Jan.
Magee' David B........April
Myers ' Oliver H ........Aug.
Meyer' Wm. D............Aug.
MacL~llan John G....Aug.
McEwen 'John H ......Aug.
' F ................ Apri·1
Ogden, B.
Paton, George ............Mar.
·u
. Potting, Henry F ...._.uay
Preston, J. N..............May
Palmer George ··---·Oct·
Robert~, S. A ...-........_Feb.
Redican, B. .......•..._Mar. '
Rumbo!, R. F .............Jan.
Redmond, Samuel __Aug.
Rauch, Alexander ....Oct.
Rossi, Albert ..............May
Rewcastle, J. G..__Oct.
Reed, B. H ..............._April
Spencer, T . C...:....... _Aug.
Smith Eli M................J.~ov.
-Shakespear,
'
• b·
David ...Jie
Schneider, Ed. S ...._Sept.
Scull, Charles ............Sept.
Stanton, Andrew P ....Aug.
Tupper, John H ......._Feb.
Trampleasure, T. E..;\ug.
Tack, Nicolas .........-Oct.
Wooley, E . B.............J)ec.
Welch, Wm. W .........June
Whipple, Wm. M ..._Mar.
Warren R. -B.:......Jeb.
Werntz,' Gabriel ...__.~ov.
Whitelaw, John ...._Dec.
Zimmermann, W. T._Feb.

tODG!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NO.

LOCA'l'ION

AG!

11 ' '09 Pacific ··--..··---······136 San Francisco.76
4' '10 Mendocino ............179 Mendocino ......76
20' '07 Northern Light ....190 Millville ..........S3
12' '13
Solano ··-················229 Vallejo ........._71
,
30, 13 Rio Vista ..............~ • Rio Vista..........75
10' '10 Mokelumne Hi!L..298 Mokelumn~ H.84
19' '11 Doric .....................216 San Franc~sco.72
29' '12 Starr King :...........344 San Franc1sco.68
31 ' '12 Mountain View ....194 Mounta~n V'w.SJ
30, '13 Corm
· th'1an .............. 9 Marysville ......86
21 • '13 Pajaro ....................110 Watsonvill~ ....68
19' ,'OS Mission ..................169 San Francisco.74
21• 02 Doric ·····-···:···--··-216 San Franc~sco.80
2, '11 So. San Francisco..212 San Francisco.65
22, '12 South Gate ............320 Los Angel~s ...-81
20, '12 Amity ......................370 San Francisco.66
26, 01 Bear Mountain ...... 76 Ane-els Camo..85
1, 'OS Los Angeles .......... 42' Los Angele~ ....89
30, 'ffi Redwood City ......168 Redwood City.SJ
21• 'lO T r~ck ee .................200 Truckee
...........HJ
N Bloomfield
82
25, '10 Quitman .................. 88 ·
75
23, '11 Alhambra ...:............322 Alhambra ........
8, '11 M en docrno
·
··--··-··--179 Mendocino
. ......80
12, '12 Trinity .................... 27 Weaverville ....:
25, '12 Chico ······-···-··-····111 Chico ................
2S, "JO Concord _......- ........117 Sacramento ....83
9, '08 St Helena .............. 93 St. Helena:····...74
13, '08 O;iental ··-·····-·······144 San Franc~sco.696
11, 'QI) Excelsior
. ................166 San Franc1sco.7
.6, '11 Pacific ····-····-··--·····.136 San Franc1scoy
76
14, '09 Petaluma ................180 Petaluma :...... 3
30, '13 Occidental .............. 22 San Franc1~co.;5
29, ·w Crescent .................. 4S Crescent City..
29, '03 Alcatraz _................244 Oakland .........:
14, '08 Calaveras ................ 78 San Andreas....
6, '09 Brentwood ............245 · Brentwood ......80
3, '10 Wilmington ........:...198 Wilmin~o~ ....~19
23, '12 Palmyra __.............. 26 Placerv1lle ...,..
117 Sacramento
....:/3
79
.
7, '12 Concord- ..................
.
2, '10 Abell ··-···--·--····..:.....146 Ukiah .............

9

127

WOMEN 39.
NAME.

ADMI'l"l'ED.

LODGE

NO.

tOCA'l'ION
AGt
Ames, Minnie P ...... _Oct.
21, '13
Baxter, M. F .....____April 16, '02 Oak Grove - ........215 Alameda ··---56
Briggs, Mary J ___.'\.pril 24, '07 Santa Rosa ............ 57 Santa Rosa......76
Long Beach - ..........327 Long Beach......77
Collins, Delia ·...........:.. Feb.' 2, '11
Tehama .................. 3 Tehama ..........82
Childs, Susan A ..- .....Aug. 30, '13
Oakland ··-·········---188 Oakland -----66
Dyer, Sarah ·-----July 17, '00
Oriental
··-···--···---144 San Francisco.75
Dunlap, R. E ........__Sept. 23, 'QI)
Keith ··--··--···-----187 Gilroy -··-----76
Elder, M. J ............__Jan.
8, '08 Pacific ---............ _136
San -Francisco.St
Elliott, A. M ................May
1, '04 Occidental --.......... ~
San
Francisco.72
.Fountain, H. E ........_.Sept.
7, '06 Evergreen ·--.........259
Riverside
........81
Fuller, C. T ..........._Feb.
9, 'ffi
Fields, Bessie M___May 25, '13 Michigan City ........ 47 Michigan City.69 ·
Hesperian - ...........264
Grimes, E. H ....-~......Dec.
8, '03 Naval ...................... 87 Santa Maria....80
Grant, Permelia E....F eb.
2, '11 Antioch - - -.......... 175 Vallejo ............87
Antioch .........:/3
House, A. ..........._Sept. 13, '08
Georgetown .......... 2S
Heith, Catherine _Oct.
16, '10 Fresno ....................247 Georgetown ....75
Julian, B. M............Jan.
7, ·oo Madison .................. 23 Fresno -...- ......67
Johnson, M. ..........- ....Mar.
6, '03 Summit ..................112 Grass Valley....40
~cKinnon, M. A.._Dec.
31, '01 Morning Star ........ 68 Kt's Ferry....._6,1
Moore, Emily N .._May
7, ·12 Madison .................. 23 Stockton ..........65
Grass Valley....81
Mast, Frances C...._Aug. 31, '12
"ackenzie, Agnes _Aug. 30, ·13 Yosemite ····-··-······133 Coulterville ....69
Nash, M. A .......___June 11, '01 San Jose ...........-..... 10 San Jose........_75
Peacock, L. ........._ __April 2, '00 Palmyra .................. 26 Placerville •.._75
Alameda ····-·--......167
Preston, Marie ......._Feb.
6, '09 California .............. 1 Centerville ......86
Potting, Nellie E ........May
2, ·u So. San Francisco..212 San Francisco.59
San Francisco.69
Jl.obinson, I. ................Dec. 19, '03
Eureka .................... 16
··-·--.•.83
Auburn
Redican, M. A ............Mar.
1, '05 Los Angeles .......... 42
~eaves, Mary McD....June
8, '13 Bear Mountain ...... 76 Los Angeles....82
Angels Camp_77
Seeley, Nancy C-....._Sept.
3, '10
$tanton, Mary O ........Dec. 12, '10 Manzanita -·-·······102 N. San Juan....77
Smith, Eliza J ..........._Jnne 11, '13 .Pacific ··········-········-136 San Francisco.78
Pinole ..........- .....-353 Pinole ..........._.8()
Sawyer, Ella B............Aug. 30, '13
Natoma .................... 64 Folsom ............6.1
Smith, Elizabeth ..._Aug. 28, '13
Friendship .............210 San J ose........,.70
1l'homas, F. W ...........Jan.
4, '04 Abell ........................146
Ukiah ..........-85
Valliant, S. ~..........._Oct.
13, '11 Washington ............ 20
Sacramento ....76
Pentworth, L . ........_Feb.
6, '00 Hawaiian ................ 21
Honolulu ........68
Wooley, Jane ......._Dec. 29, '03
Alcatraz ----........244 Oakland ..........89
Wells, Mary ........:.._Oct.
27, '12 Golden Gate · .......... 30
San Francisco.75

.128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DI:ED DURING THt YtAR-19.

SAN GABRIEL HOME.

NAME.

DATt.

BURl:ED AT

8, '12 Decoto
Barclay, Catherine -·:~ov.
9, '12 San Francisco
Brooks, Rosina A._ ... _Nov.
Brown, Phillip T ....- .. April 17, '13 Decoto
Baggi, Casimir .......-.Aug. 31, '13 Decoto
3, '13 Decoto
Chambers, George ......June
28,
'13 · Vacaville
Eversole, James ...:......Mar.
7, '13 Decoto
Ehmann, Madeline .... Sept.
6, '13 San Lorenzo
Fuller, Amos L .........•Sept.
20,
'12 Deco to
Groome, Julia ····-·····.Sept.
s.
'13 Deco to
Hayward, Alvin E ......M ay
20,
'13 Decoto
Haskell, Sarah W ...... Aug.
31,
'13 Deco to
Longley, George .....-.Jan.
Decoto
13,
'12
McMahon, R~oda A .... Oct.
6,
'13
Decoto
Morton, William B....Feb.
1,
'12
San Francisco
Rodecker, Elias .......... NQv.
2,
'13
Decoto
Reppey, James W ........June
Decoto
6,
'13
Starkweather, C. H ....April
Decoto
16,
'12
Tucker, Irene L ......- ....Nov.
Redding
23,
'13
Williams, William H ..Feb.

VOLUNTARY D"EPARTUR:Es-2.

Parker, Harvey D ...- Mar.
Slavich, George .......... May

16, '13
6, '13

129

The following is a complete list of the children of the San Gabriel
Home, the date of their admission, their respective ages, the names
and numbers of the Lodges nominating them and the location of
such Lodges :
BOYS 34, ADULTS 1.
NAM:E.

ADMITT:ED.

Brown, Newell ·-····-Jan.
Buletti, Antone ....._Nov.
Bundy, Emery Edwin_Feb.
Bundy, John HaroldFeb.
Clairville, Henry ........April
trench, Ferdinand...... April
Gill, George H ........- ..Dec.
Hyner, Lewis ............June
lfioward, Lester W ....Oct.
.aoward, Homer E ....Feb.
Lakey, Dale ...............J.far.
Lakey, Myron ............Mar.
:lfcKenzie, Orville S ....May
Murray, Arthur F ...Jfay
~attison , Francis H ....J une
t'attison, Kenneth ..July
Quinton, Albert ..........Dec.
:lµmsey, Frederick ...April
Riley, Jahiel Theo ...._April
Robert, Clovis John ..Aug.
Robert, Albert Lucas.June
~ftery, Earl A .......... May
Schultz, Charles L .....June
Snow, Alfred .........'...:June
f5tevens, Harvey ......Feb.
,Stevens, Rollin ..........Feb.
Ffilston, Cecyl C.......... Sep.t.
Til~ton, Arthur N ...-5ept.
Wi~gate, Do"nald M ..Feb.
JNingate, James B......Fcb.
'1Varren, Ulmer E ......Nov.
p.vaistell, Robert Jas .. Mar.
Waistell, Thomas Jas.\far.
Westfall, Jno. Burton.Aug.
Bettes, A. M ................:\ug.

LODG:E

NO.

LOCATION

AGt

25, ' 10 Wilmington ............ 198 Wilmington ....13
10, '07 Speranza ltaliana..219 San Francisco.13
5, '11 Santa Ana .............241 Santa Ana........ 9
5, '11 Santa Ana ..............241 Santa Ana........ 11
29, '07 Oakland ................. .188 Oakland ..........14
7, '06 Ashlar ....................306 Colton ..............10
14, '12 Highland Park......382 Los Angeles .... 8
14, '08 Volcano .................. 56 Volcano .......... 9
1, '12 Oriental ..................144 San Francisco.12
17, '13 Oriental .................. 144 San Francisco. 5
l, '10 Gardena ................. .372 Gardena ..........13.
1, '10 Gardena ..................372 Gardena ..........14
2, '12 Golden State ..........3!i8 Los Angeles .... 7
15, '13 Agreement Bd. Trust.
5.
7, '12 Crockett ..................139 San Francisco. 8 , ·
12, '11 Crockett .................. 139 San Francisco.13
18, ·09 Mission ....................169 San Francisco. 8.
19, '10
11
11, '11 Martinez ................ 41 Martinez ..........12
27, '10 Volcano .................. 56 Volcano ..........12
27, '10 Volcano ..:............... 56 Volcano ..........10
5, '13 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angelesc... 7
14, '10 Needles ..................326 N ee<tles ··- ---11
9, '12 Mt. Washington ..•.295 Guerneville ....14
25, '10 Agreement Bd. Trust.
11
25, '10 Agreement Bd. Trust.
14
23, '13. Los Banos ..............312 Los Banos........ 12
23, '13 Los Banos ·······-·····312 Los Banos........ 15
20, '11 Mission ····-······-··--169 San Francisco. 8
20, '11 Mission ....................10.F San Francisco.13
20, '12 Sacramento ............ 40 Sacramento ....1$
30, '13 San Jose ................ 10 $aq}ose.•...•....•: ?
30, '13 San· Jose ................ 10 S,ap J~se,·-·:-r:•·¥ , ~ /
18, '13 Bakersfield :...........224 Bakersfield ...... 8
17, '00 Pasadena ................272 Pasadena ........69

130

• PROCEEDINGS OF THE '

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GIRLS 23, ADULTS 1.

Brother Henry Ascroft, Chairman of the Committee on
A('.counts, reported as follows:

LOCATION AGE
NAME.
ADMITnD.
LODGE
NO.
Brown, Margaret ...-Jan. · 30, "'10 Wilmington ..........198 Wilmington ....10
Buletti, Margherita..-N ov. 10, '07 Speranza Italiana.219 San F rancisco.13
Clairville, J osephine....April 29, '07 Oakland ····-···········188 Oakland ·:i......•.20
Clairville, Juanita ...-April 29, '07 Oakland ··············-·188 Oakland -··-····18
Donovan, Ethel ......-Dec. 15, '09 Doric ...•....,...........- ..216 San Francisco.15
Colton ..............13
French, Ismena .......-Dec. 30, '03 Ashlar ..:................
Haensel, Elizabeth :.-April 10, '02 Eureka ....... ............ 79 Eureka ....,....-19
Hae~sel, Gertrude E..:\pril 10, '02 Eureka .................... 79 E~reka ..........-15
Hyner, Edith G..--J1ine 14, '08 Volcano .................. 56 Volcano ..........13
Howard, Helena E-Feb. 17, '13 Oriental •.................144 Oriental .......... 8
7
Murray, Alice E.....:-\fay 15, '13 Agreement Bd. Trust.
9
Ramsey, May ..........:-May 14, '10
I
Riley, Effie Anna........A.pril 11, '11 Martinez .................. 41 Martinez ........ 9
Riley, Rebecca ··-····--\pril 11, '11 Martinez .................. 41 Martinez ........ 6
Riley, Margaret Rose..April 6 '12 Geo. Washington.. 62 Chinese Camp. 5
Robert, Emily E.......-o\ug. Z;' '10 Volcano .................. 56 Volcano ......•...13
Raftery, Bernice _____May
5, '13 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles.... 5
Stevens, Irene ______ _Feb. 25, '10 Agreement Bd. Trust.
14
15, '10 Alameda ..................167 Centerville ...... 14
Willis, Mildred -····-Oct.
15, '10 Alameda ···········-·--167 Centerville ......14
Willis, Millicent .....-Oct.
Warren, Corrine .....-Sept. 20, '12 Sacramento ............ 40 Sacramento ~ .. 15
Westfall, Grayce E._A ug. 18, '13 Bakersfield ·····-····-224 Bakersfield ...... 5
Westfall, Louise E .._Aug. 18, '13 Bakersfield ..............224 Bakersfield ...... 5
82
Trumbull, Mary ........

»

.

DEPARTURES-12.
Brown, Warren -···-Sept.
Clairville, Victor __ Sept.
Crego, Dorothy E-.-Jnly ·
Crego, William H_July'
Herbert, Jesse G___ 'l.fov.
Herbert, Jennie ··--\I" ov.
Hanson, Howard __ "Sept.
Ryner, Clinton
Sept.
Lightfoot, Carl V _Nov.
Lightfoot, Clyde L--Nov.
Trueblood, Frederick..
Warfield, Roderick F_Aug.

c__

8, '12
13, '12
31, '13
31, '13
18, '12
18, '12
30, ....
30. ....
4, '12
4, '12

Live with family Long Beach
Apprenticed with Electric Co.
Live with mother
Live with mother
Live with mother
Live with mother
Employment with L. A. Business Firm
Employment with L. A. Business Firm

Dismissed
19, . '12 Dismissed

131

~EPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS.
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts, since the las·t Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, has regularly repaired to the office of
the Grand Secretary, on the last Saturday of every month · examined
and audited all bills presented; none having been paid ~ithout the
indo~sement of the Committee, t_he members of which having at
all times been cheerfully assisted by our worthy Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,

HtNRY ASCROFT,
H. ]. OwEN,
D. E. F. EASTON,
EDwARD E. CoNN,
F . W . WoLTl!Rs,
Committee.

The report was adopted.
Brother Ascroft also reported for the Committee on
By-Laws, as follows:
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS.
To the M.' · w: · Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has examined the Records of the
several Lodges under Dispensation, and respectfully report as follows:
Hammonton, Germania, Claremont, Fairmount, Lancaster, Tyrian
and Maricopa have all complied with the Uniform Code of By-Laws
as adopted by this Grand Lodge ; and your Committee take pleasure
in recommending them to the favorable consideration of this Grand
Lodge.
Your Committee also recommends that the approval of the
M. · · w. ·· Grand Master to the amendments of By-Laws submitted
by the following named Lodges be concurred in :
Changing time of meetings: Pajaro, No. 110; Vacaville, No. 134;
Ferndale, No. 193; Antioch, No. 175; East Belt, No. 391; Downey,
No. 220; Adifl, No. 250; Orange Grov.e, No. 293; Anaheim, No. .:IJ7;
San Francisco, No. 360; Orosi, No. 383; Sanger, No. 316; Ontario,
No. 301; Moneta, No. 405; Maxwell, No. 288; Inglewood, No. 421;
and Doric, No. 216.

133

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Increasing fees: San Buenaventura, No. 214; Orange Grove,
No. 293; Alturas, No. 248; Alcatraz, No. 244; Ontario, No. 301;
Illinois Town, No. 51; Jewel, No. 374; Orino Vatley, No. 427;
Meridian, No. 182; Mountain View, No. 194; North Butte, No. 230 ;
Eucalyptus, No. 243; Brawley, No. 402; and San Diego, No. 35.
Increasing dues: Occidental, No. 22 ; Nevada, N~. 13; Charter
Rock, No. 410; Santa Rosa, No. 57; Mount Moriah, No. 44; Visalia,
No. 128; and Orland, No. 265.
Reducing dues: Los Angeles; No. 42.
The amendment to By-Laws submitted by Ferndale Lodge No.
193, exempting certain members from payment of dues, is not approved.
Respectfutly submitted,

We are more than pleased at the immediate success this Employment Bureau has been, and although only in existence about four
months the fotlowing report by Brother Wm. H. Mitchell, its Secretary,
speaks for itself:

132

HENRY AsCRoFT,
JIMMU: N . HALL,
GEORG£ T. TooBY,
FRANCIS J. McCoY.

The report was adopted as read.
The Grand Secretary presented the following reports
of the several Boards of Relief of California:
BOARD OF RELIEF OF SAN FRANCISCO.
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of Relief of the city of San Francisco begs
leave to present the fotlowing report for the year beginning August 27,
1912, and ending August 25, 1913, both dates inclusive:
Since our last report San Mateo Lodge No. 226 has withdrawn
from our compact, the Board now consisting of twenty-five Lodges,
who have been represented during the year by the Masters or Representatives.

EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.
Since the beginning of May a Masonic Employment Bureau has
been established under the auspices of this Board with the assistance
of the fotlowing Masonic bodies, who contribute to its support and:
ma.nage its affair~:
Islam Temple, Mystic Shrine; San Francisco bodies, Scottish Rite ; :
CaHfornia bodies, Scottish Rite; California Commandery ·No. 1, K. T .;
Missipn Com.mandery No. 41, K. T.; San Francisco Chapter No. l ;
R. A. M.; California Chapter No. 5, R. A. M:; Mission Chapter· No.
79, R. A. M. ; A. E. 0 . Sciots; Masonic Board of Relief.
.·.

REPORT OF MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.
May 6, 1913, to September 8, 1913, both dates inclusive :
No. of
Positions
Not
Applicants.
Filled.
Reporting.
May 6-June 6 .......................... 75...·--···················.31....-·······-··········-14
June 7-July 5 .......................... 58..:..........- ............45............._.........•..JI)
July 6-Aug. 9 .......................... 95............................56............................19
Aug. 10-Sept. 8 ····················-····101............................73........................•...17
Total ·······························-····329..........................205............................70
Applicants by jurisdictions are as fotlows :
San Francisco, 25 per cent.
California, outside of San Francisco, 21 per cent.
Other jurisdictions, 54 per cent.
Expenses for running the Bureau from May 6th to September 8th:
Salary ·············-······················-···-·················································-··-·---·.$400.00
Stationery ·············-····················- ·············--·················--································· 29.25
Postage ···-······-·····-···················-··-······-··································--···--·············· 16.93
Printing .........................................:........................................................·-····· 23.00
Incidental ...........................................................·-·····-··································· 17.25
Total ··········-··-·············-····-·········---·························-·····--··--···-····.$481S.43
As will be seen by above, the number of applicants is constantly
increasing and we desire to warn Masons who contemplate coming here
that the unemployed are very numerous and consequently a very large .
drain on the charity of our Lodges, as positions are not secured very
readily.
BOARD OF RELIEF.
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS.
United States.
DisburseReceived From
Jurisdiction.
Individuals.
Lodges.
ments.
Total.
Arizona ............................ $ ..........
$ 55.00
$ 55.00
$· 55.00
16.00
21.00
17.00
Colorado .....:.................... ·- 5.00
Connecticut ......................
..........
15.00
15.00
6.30
77.00
Dist. of Columbia..:.........
17.00
50.00
67.00
Delaware ...................:......
27.50
Georgia ..............................
57.00
25.90 ·
82.90
83.65

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

13~

Jurisdiction.

Received From
Individuals.
Lodges.

Illinois --··-·····-············-:
Iowa ..................................
Indiana··········-··················
Idaho ..................................
Kentucky ..........................
Kansas ···-···············--·····
Louisiana ..........................
Maryland ..........................
Massachusetts ..................
Maine ························-······
Montana·········-·················
Michigan ····-···-··············
Minnesota ····-··················
Missouri ............................
Mississippi ........................

112.25
16.20
4.00

30.00
5.00

30.00
5.00
10.00

Nebraska ···-···············-··New Hampshire ··········Nevada ······-············---····
New York ........................
North Carolina ..............
Ohio ···-···········--········-····
Oregon ···········-··-·····-······
Pennsylvania ..................
Philippine Islands ·······-·
Tennessee ........................
Texas ······························Utah ·············-···················
Virginia ···-·······················
Washington ......................

53.00
31.60
12.00
2.50
73.25

51.20

Wyoming ···········--···········

392.60

10.00
30.00
141.75
314.50
5.00
40.00
12.00

5.00
10.00
30.00
141.75
365.70
5.00
40.00
12.00
$5,516.29
2,193.95

$7,254.98
3,402.08

$7,710.24

$10,657.06

781.80
238.00
20.00
35.00
5.00
325.00
55.00
119.50
152.00
2.00
134.00
218.50
215.00
13.00
25.00
168.25
10.00
278.50
760.15
45.00
287.85

California ·····"·...····-··········

469.13

$4,996.29
1,724.82

Total U. S. .............

$989.13

$6,721.11

Total .......................... $520.00

Disbursemen ts.
878.55
329.60
24.00
35.00
5.40
526.35
5.00
25.00
626.10
422.00
164.00
216.00
260.00
38.00
49.75
153.90
140.50
370.15
970.58
32.00
247.50
292.85
505.85
5.00
11.00

Tote.I.
894.05
254.20
24.00
35.00
5.00
355.00
55.00
124.50
152.00
2.00
164.00
223.50
215.00
23.00
25.00
168.25
10.00
331.50
791.74
12.00
47.50
287.85
465.85

5.00

West Virginia ·············-Wisconsin ........................

GRAND LODGE .OF CALIFORNIA

135

FOREIGN.

Jurisdictions.

Received From
Individuals.
Lodges.

England ............................ $ ..........

$

Total.

Disbursements.

$ ···-·····
157.90

Scotland ............................
Ireland ..............................
Mexico ..............................

157.90

British Columbia ............
Ontario ..............................
Western Australia ..........

53.00

138.05
90.00

5.00
191.05
90.00

Total .......................... $210.90

$233.05

$443.95

5.00

$355.50
339.15
12.00
191.05
142.48
5.00
80.00

New Brunswick ..............

$1,125.18

DISBURSEMENTS TO DIMITTED MASONS.

California ··-···------·---·----·-····--·------··

..$ 835.41

Michigan ···········-- ···- ·············-············-·'···-··············--·····--··-···-····-· 125.35
Iowa -····························--·················--····-····-·········-····--··-····----·· 25.00
Missouri ············································-·······-··········-··················-·············- 300.00
Nova Scotia ········································-··················································-···· 249.50

30.00
141.75
400.70
5.00

England ············-···································-······················································

5.00

Scotland --······-··-········--·········--····-···············-·····-··-·-·-·-·············-·-··-

5.00

65.00
12.00

Lodge unknown ······················································-·-············-···············- $362.50

Total ·······-································,-·-··•··-·······-·········-··················-···.$1,545.26

136

GRAND LODGE '. OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

137

Rl(C£IPTS.

Amounts Received From Assessments Upon City Lodges.
California ··············-··················--··No. 1..............................................$ 563.68
La Parfaite Union..........................No. 17.............................................. 164.65

From Assessments upon city Lodges............................$ 8,353.89
Refund from California.................................................... 2,193.95

537.04

From other Jurisdictions in the United States.......... 5,516.29

Golden Gate ···-·····························No. 30..............................................

476.01

From foreign Jurisdictions..·-···················-······:.............

Mount Moriah ···--,·-·····················No. 44.,.........,....................·-···········
Fidelity ............................:...............No. 120..............................................

314.40

From the Grand Lodge............·-········-··--···'·-·······--··- 5,000.00
Income from Johnson Bequest Fund and Interest
from banks, including balance of $70.34 balance
of Johnson Bequest Fund not invested in bonds.. 1,411.40

Occidental -·········-·-·············-·······-No. 22.......................................-.....

489.12

Hermann ·····--···························-··No. 127..............................................

192.75

Pacific ··········-·········-·-···················No. 136...............................,..............

594.50

Crockett ···- ·······-·········-··············-·No. 139...·.·························-···············
Oriental ·············-·····························No. 144..............................................

363.40
347.35

443.95

Total Receipts ·····················:·····································-$22,919.48
Balance on hand last report............................................ 4,224.92

Excelsior ...................................,..- ..No. 166......................................-...... 384.85

$27,144.40

Mission ·····················-·····················No. l(f)_..........- ..·················-···········
South San Francisco....................No. 212..............................................

844.99
173.34

Doric ···········-·-··- ·············-······-·····No. 216.................................·-··········
Esperanza Italiana ....................,...No. 219..............................................

444.40
181.68

To Relief on account of California..................:...........$ 3,402.08

San Mateo ··············-Y- •-···,....·--No. 226---·····-·······~·.-···-··;················
King Solomon's ·······-···········-······No. 260..-..........................................

88.80

To Relief for other Jurisdictions of U. $ .................. 7,254.98

DISBURS£M£NTS.

499.71 ·

To Relief foreign Jurisdictions .................................... 1,125.18

Starr King ······-····························-No. 344...·-········································

231.68

To Relief dimitted Masons ............................................

I,545.26

Presidio ··-·•···-·············-··········-··No. 354.......................·-··-···-····-··-·

239.60
195.20

To Relief Lodge unknown ............................................

362.50

San Francisco ··············-················No. 360._...........................................
Amity ······-·················-·········-·······No. 370.·-·-·······································
Jewel -·····-······································No. 374..............................................

.

Richmond ··-·······-·························No. 375..............................................

266.40
80.80
246.64

Total ..............................................................................$13,690.00
Rent, salary and incidentals........................$2,206.65
Telephone and telegraph..............................

120.66

Donations to Employment Bureau............

300.00

Parnassus. ..'..-..................................No. 388.............................................. · 186 80
Balder ·-·····-·················-···········-······No. 393...-.........................................

152.26

Total ..........................................................

Burlingame ·······················-···········No. 400..............................................

93.84

Total Disbursements ............................................

$8.353.89

2,627.31
16,317.20

Balance on hand............·-·······························-············-··········-·····.$10,827.20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

During the year the following Brethren have been buried with
Masonic Honors or their remains shipped according to the wishes
of the families:

Apr. 6 Julius Herman....--Flagstaff No. 7.·-·-·······-Flagstaff, Ariz.
16 R.H. PlanL.•._ ..... Baraboo No. 34----··--··--Baraboo, Wis.
18 H. T. Clay·-··---Union ···--·····-···-··-··-Dorchester, Mass.
23 Wm. H. Dickey....•Lancaster No. 54..............Lincoln, Nebr.
May 8 Wm. H. Eeks.......... Brooklyn No. 225 .............. 0akland, Cal.
9 H. D. Hawxhurst.. Eastern Scotia No. 923..Hongkong, China
June 3 C.. M. Hagenbaugh Havre No~ 55·-·-···-···--Havre, Mont.
6 J. H. Landon.......... Newton No. 142............-Newton, Kas.
15 J. T. Johnson ........ Thos.]. Turner No. 409..Chicago, Ill.
26 L. H. Dee................ Oceanic No. 371.......-.....-Honolulu, H. I.
July 13 D. J. McKay.......... Spokane No. 34--··--·······-Spokane, Wash.
17 A. M. Thomas...-... Ruby No. 36--···········-··-···-Drummond, Mont.
Aug. 3 A. A. Tregidgo....-Nevada No. 13.................. Nevada City, Cal.
Total 43.
Respectfully submitted,
LEO. BRUCK,
Secretary.
Approved:
OLIN L. BERRY,
Chairman.

188

1912
Sept. 19 Henry Hirschman Adelphi No. 23.................. New York, N. Y.
24 Elias Moss............_Franklin No. 447.----·······-New York, N. Y.
30 R. W . Ryland........-Reno No. 13..·-·····-··-·--·Reno, Nev.
Oct. 5
11
15
22
27

C. P. Jensen..........~Bandon No. 130..·-···········Bandon, Ore.
Jas. A. Dungan...._Dillon No. 23...................-Dillon, Mont.
H.P. Hansen.......... Oak Grove No. 215 ..........0akland, Cal.
Eli A. Myers........-Shekinah No. 246·-·-·····---Philadelphia, Pa.
R. X. Basford......... Geo. Washington No. 143Chambersburg, Pa.

Nov. 1 John St. Pierre... _.Alcatraz No. 244................0akla.nd, Cal.
3 G. L. BartholomewArcana No. 717 .......- ...-Chicago, Ill.
15 Garritt P. Judd ...... Golden Rule No. 159........ Ann Arbor, Mich.
Dec. 6 Fred. G. Haas....,....."Trinity No. 27.................... Weaverville, Cal.
10 H. R. Scullin........ Palestine No. 351..............Los Angeles, Cal.
13 F. M. Harris.......... Montezuma No. 30............Goldfield, Nev.
15 John Gillespie........ Perfect Ashier No. (i()4.•.. New York, N. Y.
16 Jos. Zinnamon ........ West Gate No. 335 .... _.... Los Angeles, Cal.
27 Louis E. Fay.......... Lakeside No. 739.............. Chicago, Ill.
1913
Jan. 5 F. E. Dickinson ...... St. Bernard No. 222......-Dodge City, Kas.
10 ]. W. C. World.... Pacific No. 233...- ............ New York, N. Y.
14 Jas. R. Summer .... Atlanta No. 59...-·-··········-Atlanta, Ga.
17 W. ]. McGregor .... Caledonian No. 254..........Dundee, Scotl.
19 Henry Mahler........ Acacia No. 92........- ........ _Colma, Cal.
26 Wm. J. Coleman... Benicia No. 5.....................-Benicia, Cal.
Feb. 2 W. J . Tonkin.......... Eureka No. 16-...............-Eureka, Cal.
Samuel Haas.......... Escurial No. 7..._............ _ Virginia City, Nev.
9 A. H. Bordeaux .... Amity No. 4....•.................-Silver City, Nev.
Mch. 4 C. L. Ecklon ............ N atoma No. 64~ .................Folsom, Cal.
21 Robert Dick ............ Franklin No. s_.................Pt. Gamble, Wash.
0. H. MeyerhofferAlisal No. 321..................-Pleasanton, Cal.
27 J. Silberstein.......... Sotoyome No. 123............ Healdsburg, Cal.

139

BOARD OF RELIEF OF LOS ANGELES.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
o-f the State of California, and Subordinate Lodges of the City
of Los Angeles, California.
Dl!AR SIRS AND BRO'l'Hl!RS :
The Masonic Board of Relief, of the °City of Los Angeles, herewith presents the following report of its labors from September 1,
1912, to August 31, 1913.
The Masonic Board of Relief is composed of the Masters (ex
officio) of the 22 Blue Lodges of this City and two members appointed by ·him, together with the Past Grand Masters residing
within the City of Los Angeles, the Inspectors of the several Masonic
Districts of Los Angeles City, the Manager of the Masonic Employment Bureau, and one Past Worthy Matron of the Order of
the Eastern Star.
OFFICERS.
President ·······································-··--··-····---·.Brother JOHN HILL Bl!AN
IR.ice-President................ :.............................:.......B,.other DANA Rl!m Wl!LLER
Treasurer ................:.:.....................................Brotllw MO'l'Ll!Y Hl!wl!s FuNT
~cretary.......................................... Brother DR. JOHN MARCUS DUNSMOOR

140

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Stated Meetings are held on the first Sunday of each month.
The Officers form an Executive Board and are on duty daily.
The year 1912-13 has been one of great prosperity in Masonic
Circles, as well as in other walks of life. Yet with all this prosperity there has been the proportional amount of suffering and distress.
California, and particularly Southern California, is known to
have the most genial climate extant, and Los Angeles being the
most prosperous and rapidly growing city on the Pacific Coast, has
brought hordes of mechanics, laborers and professional men and
women to our midst.
Yet as prosperous as we are, there is such a thing as having
too many people for the positions which we have to offer. Our
Masonic brethren must compete with the profane in the battle of
life, and unless they have sufficient means to maintain themselves
and their families, until they can secure positions they must be
aided. 'l'his has been the experience of far too many applicants
for relief.
Again, too many in~alids are sent to Southern California, in
the vain hope that they can secure employment, while our balmy
atmosphere and invigorating sunshine restore them to health. And
while in some instances their hopes are realized, yet in a majority
of cases they have put off their coming till it is too late. These
people must be provided for here or returned to their homes to
pass quietly away among their friends.
Brethren, the glorious climate of California is not the fountain
of perpetual youth, neither is it the cure-all for every infirmity.
We try to do our duty as Masons to those who have a right
to our consideration, as we see it, but please bear in mind that
"To err is human; and to forgive is Divine."

MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.

Masonic
B ureau, operated m
. conjunction with
this The
Board
of RerEmployment
f ·
the several Royal t~rct~ ~::orted by a ~onthly contribution from
Rite Bodies Shrine and th. ptBers, dCounctl, Commanderies, Scottish
' .
ts oar of Relief is unde th d"
management of Brother Fred T p d
•.
. r
e trect
to this work H
· ~r y, who gives his entire time
.
e reports that durmg the year endin A
1913, there have been applications filed with him :
g
ugust 31,
Men
W om;~······-····-··-··-·-~:······--····-···-·----··-·····-········-····-····---··-···---··········•..-- 930
··-····-··-····----·-.···--···-··'···--·-·---·····- ·-·-·---······-·······-·"·:·······-·-··- ···-"· 255
1185
That he has secured positions for:
Men
om;~···-··-·--·--··-·--····---·--·-····---·-····-··--·-····-·······-···········-······················-················ 547
W
·····-·····-·······-- ··-····-····-··········-·····;·····:-····-········-····-··---·······-····-················ 140

687
This does not take into consideration d ozens of short jobs
secured for one day to two weeks N "th
does it include funeral
substitutes.
·
et er
DEATHS.

During the year ending August 31 1913
.
or members of their families ha
'd
' the following Masons
d
d
h .
.
ve passe to their final
t eir r:mams have been given burial with Masonic
rewar ' an
according to the wishes of the fa m 1·1·1es, viz.:
•
honors, or shipped
RECORD OF

VISIT TO THE MASONIC HOME.

On May 4, 1913, the Board of Relief accepted the invitation
of Brother E. B. Spencer, the Trustee having especial charge of
the Masonic Orphans' Home at San Gabriel, and held its session
in the spacious parlOr of that institution.
·This was followed by a delightful entertainment by the children of the Home consisting of drills, marches, recitations, vocal
and instrumental music, after which the building and premises ~ere
carefully inspected, and finally returning to the city by special car.
To several members, this visit was a revelation. Brethren, visit
your Masonic Home. Learn what Masonry is doing, and will do
for you should necessity require.

HI

LODGE AND NO.

NAME.

Occidental 760
John F. Mayer
United 5
Clinton M. Hitchens
Kirksville 105
Francis M. Brown
Fred T. Hutchins
Salt Spring 520
Shelby 28
James C. Bennett
Magnolia 242
Wilson L. Clark
Oriental 224
John McCarthy
Dr. Jacob A. Hasemeir Plattsmouth 6
Emil lieydrick
Denver 5
9

D~ATH:-0:.

LOCATION.

DATF, OF DEATH

Buffalo, N. Y.
Sept. 30, 1912
Springfield, Mo.
Oct. 5, "
Kirksville, Mo.
9, "
Syracuse, N. Y.
13, "
Shelbyville, Ind.
16, "
Santa Barbara, Cal.
li, "
17, ..
Utica, N. Y.
Plattsmouth, Neb.
20, "
26, ..
Denver, Colo.

H2

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGJ!l OF CALIFORNIA.

NAMJ;:.

LODG!t AND NO.

LOCATION.

DAT!tOF DltATH

Roy Germain Morgan Khurum 112
Minneapolis, Minn. Nov. 6, 1912
Charles M. Simmons
De Kalb 144
DeKalb, Ill.
"
6, "
Axel F. Anderson
San Francisco 360 San Francisco, Cal.
"
9, "
"
3, "
Albert Rundblad
King Oscar 855 Chicago, Ill.
Joseph Thomas Hall
Kilwinning 311
Chicago, Ill.
" 18; "
Frederick W. Nance
Union 7
Denver, Colo.
" 22, "
Silas M. McCall
Aberdeen 38
A'berdeen, S. Dak.
" 26, "
Isaac Robinson
Wrights Grove 779Chicago, Ill.
Dec. 17, "
Orrin Elmer
Eaton Rapids 63 Eaton Rapids, Mich. " 22, "
Dr. Alexander ProudfootSt. Pauls 374
Montreal, Canada Jan. 18, 1913
Dr. Julius Silberstein
Chamberlain 56 Chamberlain, S. Dak. " 16, "
Mary Brandt (Dtr.)
Constellation 892 Chicago, Ill.
25, "
Adoneram Woodbury Union 7
Denver, Colo.
27, "
Wilhelm C. AngermondeSequoia 349
Oakland, Cal.
" 30, "
Roderick McK. Sample Union 9
New Westmnstr., B.C. " 23, "
Dr. George B. Smith FielQ.on 592
Fieldon, Ill.
Feb. 6, "
Anthony 455
Springfield, Ohio
" 21, "
Walter M. Ormsbee
Rev. William Hunt
Ancient 588
Donegal, Ireland
21, "
Walter A. Waggoner El Centro 384
El Centro, Cal.
" 18, "
Jay D. Maben
Ontario 301
Ontario, Cal.
" 25, "
Dennis Gahan
Alley 14
Up. Mills, N. B., Can. " 28, "
Thomas R. Roberts
Arcana 87
Seattle, Wash.
Mch. 3, "
Ryan, Okla.
"
2, "
Mrs. Charles A. Stroud Ryan 67
Charles A. Carper
Fides 842
West Pullman, Ill.
"
3, "
David Markley
Cottage Grove 51 Cottage Grove, Ore. "
7, "
Herbert E. Richards
WrightsGrove779 Chicago, Ill.
"
8, "
William H. Richardson Crescent 66
Chicago, Ill.
"
8, "
Levi M. Bavis
Union 7
Denver, Colo.
" 25, "
Guthrie Center, Ia.
Webster Clay Hopkins Orange 123
" 29, "
George H. Clarke
Somerset 34
Skowhegan, Me.
A~il · 7, "
Edward Shannon
Bodley 1
Quincy, Ill.
" 9, "
Harrison M. Ketchin
Topeka 17
Topeka, Kan.
" 10, "
Vernon A. Ranck
Magnolia 20
Columbus, Ohio
" 16, "
Robert T. Macklin
Pioneer 271
Letterkenny, Ireland " 17, "
S. Horace Roberts
Three Rivers 57 Three Rivers, Mich.• " 20, "
William Johnson
Corinthian 18
Morenci, Ariz.
" 20, "
Mrs. Emma B. LindquistWash'n Cent. 14 Washington, D. C.
" 26, "
Cyrus A. Campbell
Hennepin 4
Minneapolis, Minn. May 6, "
Thomas J . McDonald Hastings 50
Hastings, Neb.
" 11, "
George S. Conover
Olive Branch 16 Freehold, N. J.
" 2, "

148

NAM!.
LODGJ! AND NO.

LOCATION.

Forbus H. Holloway
DAT! OF Dl!:ATH
Tyrian 508
Sioux City, Ia.
Alexander ]. Ashen
May 13, 1913
Hoisington 331
H
oisington, Kan.
George W. Daines
" 18.. ••
Olive Branch 38 Danville, Ill.
Horace W. Cochrane Preston 218
"
p
20 "
rairie City, Ia.
Thomas C. Radbone
21,' ..
Horeb 673
Elmwood, Ill.
Richard James Norton Hiberrian 365
D
23' "
urban, South Africa "
Clyde Chapman
25,
"
"
South Gate 547 Kansas City
Hugh Dodd
27,
"
Xenias 50
Hopkins, Mo.
Oscar A. Nelson
" 27, "
Englewood 690 Chicago, Ill.
Richard L. Britt
June 12, "
Heroine 104
K
ansas City, Mo.
Milton Estes
17, "
Denver, Colo.
Oriental 87
John Radigan
21, ..
Philanx 31
Charlotte, N. C.
John Quincy Burgess Nevada 99
23, "
Nevada, Ia.
Franklin Martin
"
24,
"
Albert Pike 303 Wichita Ka
Edwin French Green E 1
" 28 ..
ng ewood 690
Chicago' Ill n.
John H. Burnham
July 1,' "
Perfect Ashlar 12 Bisbee ,A :
Ole A. Nelson
ri.i:.
"
4 "
Del 1
'
ta 95
Escanaba, Mich
"
6,' ,.
Herman Loeb
J efferson 191
N
O 1
·
Edward H. Raymour St Tb
ew r eans, La.
"
7, "
.
omas 44
St. Thomas 0
C
Charles M. Newton
Lathrop 21
C
' nt., an, " 12, "
rockett, Tex.
"
Bessie M. Garrish
La Fayette
Roxbury M
18, "
Sidney B. Wilson
Teb h ·
'
ass.
" 29, "
ac
ap1
313
Tehachapi
Cal
"
Thomas H. Brown
New 0 1'
.
24, "
St. Johns 153
reansLa
A
.
Joseph Daniel Ford
E xcels1or 166
San F
. '
·
ug. 4' "
Fred Dougherty
ranc1sco, Cal.
" 19 .,
Ml.nnehaha 5
Sioux Falls S
,
Willis J. Stinson
0
.
' · Dak. " 26, "
Hebron 374
elwin, Ia.
"
28, "

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DETAILED STAT't:MlNT OF RECl!:IPTS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AND DISBURSEMENTS.

CLASSIFIU> BY JURISDJC'l'IONS.

Paid. Received.
Alabama ·················-··-·-······-··········-·········"'················:..:..$ 177.00
Alaska ..............":...-,..•....................................:..................."...
25.00
Alberta .....:..........- ...:....,.............. ~.:-...................:.,..:......- ..
85.00 $ 10.00
143.65
Arizona :................................·-·····-·-························-·····-··· 368.85
5.00
Arkansas ······················-·········-····-········---·-······--··--·
80.00
7.00
Australia ····················••+··········---........,.,•.,...•.•..~........_.~.
99.35

Austria ······--.... -·······-······-------·······-·-··-··-~-·
British C~lumbia ......................:.................._._______

790.10
117.35
4!6.50
70.00

Idaho -~'........... :.~ ....•..............:....-.....:.--···-··--···"···.:.·-·····-··
55.00
Illinois '.......,..'..................................................·-···-·-···-······· 1,726.25

10.00
1,106.80

721.20
183.50
143.88
554.50
72.50
113.50
182.50
25.00
25.00
65.00
713.39
154.90
603.00
228.50

415~30

Iowa -··············-···············-·······················--················-····-··
Ireland ·········--····-···························-············-······--··········Kansas ··'·--···················--·····--- ···-············-···----·-··
Kentucky -·-·--···········-·--···-·················-··-··..'...-··-····-·
Louisiana ··--·······-·······-·--·-····-···············-··-..--···-Maine ·-·--·····-··············-··-····-····---············---·--····
Manila -·-·-·-··-···-·-··--·····-·····-.;...................;.~..._............
Manitoba --······················-·-- ····--···'········-············-·····--·
Maryland ...:..............·-······--············-·········-·-······-·········:._
Massachusetts -·-········-····-·-··-···················-··-·····-···-·-·
Mexico ·-····--·······-······~··-···········-··-·······-······--················
Michigan .................................·-···············-···-···-···--·-······
Minnesota -·······-········-··--·-···-······················-··········---

~:: :::;~i~~

. . . . . .: .·:.-:.· -:.-·.-:.- .·: :.·: .- .-:.-.. . . . . . . . . . . .:
h

10.00
22.00

California ···-·····-···.:.-··---~··········~··-··--··-·-·-- 1,215.65
Canada ............................. _............:..........•......~····-~-·-····
229.00
Colorado ............................................................'..............:_...
431.87
Connecticut
. ..................................................:......................... . lffi.50
80.00
China ..,..........:...........,..........."!........-··················-··-,·····:··-·-·
42.50
Delaware .:.........·-··········-···-·-····--·········---·-··········..:.......
62.50
.England -···--········-·····················:.,.··-·--·····--'r·---··-··
129.50
Florida •·-···············--···--·----·-·····:.........,_.. _ _,...._.
176.70
Georgia ··············.- -...:..··········---:-·--············_,.,....:.......•.....
110.00
Germany ---·······---····..--·--·········-- ·-----····
20.00
Honolulu ·······--·····-··-:..............----·······-·-·-•··- ·

Indiana ........................·-····································-···:_··-········

·· · ··· · ··· · ····· · · · · · ····· · · · · · ···· · · · · · · ·

Paid. Received.
59.50
Montana ················································································
379.80
252.45
Nebraska ·············································································-·
45.00
Nevada ················································································
154.45
106.75
.........................................
27.50
30.00
27.50
New Jersey .......................-.-::::::····················································
New Mexico
............................ -. ...
400.00
344.00
New York
··········································
20.00
New Zealan~·-·::::::::::::::::::······················································ l,4(i().60 1,400.55
...................................
25.00
North Carolina
·······················
5.00
Nor.th Dakota .......
···················-···············································
40.5()
_______ _______ _
36.00
Nova Scotia ·················-·· ················································
---········-·--····-······-·····-·25.00
Ohio
.................... ··············---752.90
C:>Jclahoma .............
--·-·············-·-············--·
338.70
................
Oregon
··································
427.05
120.00
Pennsyl;:~~:····::~:::::::::::::::::::················································· 101.50
50.00
Rhode Island ...
·················································
365.02
155.00
55.00
10.00
10'2.50
27.00
47.00
............. _______ _
Sweden
·························
132.10
84.00
---.............. .
20.00
64.50
Utah
····································
477.50
237.00
Vermo:~····::::.-:.-.-::.~:::.-:.-.·:.-.-::.-:·······-·····-··-····-·············-·•···········
40.00
Virginia --·--········
.............................................
JO'iOO
4500
....................
wa1es .....................................
··-········-·········------···
50.00
.
Washington D C
················································
25.oo·
'
......................................
347.50.
Washington (State) ........... . ·····································
30L50
1oioo
West Virginia ...........
..............
························
15.00
42:5'0
13d.OO
50.00
117.00
• 55.00
Total
.........................................:..•.................................. .$15,299.96
$8,525.41

::::::!~pi

........... ..... . ...

'"'"'"'""••oa••••••••

10.00
70.00
25.00

75.00
90.00
342.00
"\

47.00
100.00

607.59
5.00
351.27
140.90

§fE;::~;;=~~:;~-;~;~~; :-~;=~~
. .:.-:.- : : ..- .~: .·: :.: : : : : :: : : : : : : : : ~: : : : : : : : : : : :.-:

:::::s~~.~

.

;:~~~:n :~: : : : : .-: : : : : : : :: : .: : : : ~: : :_: : :::: : : : : : · · · · : :·:·
•••O • H • o•o••••OO • •oOo•··-·····

.

PROCEEDINGS .OF THE

146

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CASH Rl!CtIVU> FROM THE LOS ANGELES, CAL., CITY LODG!eS.

Los Angeles Lodge No. 42._.
····-···-··---·····-·······.$ 397.20
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202......·-·······-·····-···---····-·-··-····-··-············ 497.44
Southern California Lodge No. 278_..................:................................ 675.76
East Gate Lodge No. 290.......·-···--··-·········-·············-·····-···-···········
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-·----··-··--··-········-·-····-······--'.South Gate Lodge No. 320---··-·-···--········--·-··-·······-····-··
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329.......·-········-····································W est Gate Lodge No. 335....................................................................
Palestine Lodge No. 351--······-·--·········-····················-··················Sunset Lodge No. 352...............·-··················-······················-'··············
Golden State Lodge No. 358......--················································--·
Mizpah Lodge No. 378...........·-·--··-·-······-··················-··-···-·····-····
Highland Park Lodge No. 382............................................................
West Lake Lodge No. 392.;..................................................................
.

1

.

University Lodge No. 394.·-······---·········-··-·-···.-·········-········-········
Moneta Lodge No. '405.·-···-·······-··-········-.:.·--:······--·-··-·-·-·-··
San Pedro Lodge No. 332-············-·-····-····-···-········--··--··--,··--·Wilmington Lodge No. 198.............·-············-···········-·······-··········Hollywood Lodge No. 355...........·-··············-··--··-···························
Arlington Lodge No. 414..·-·············-·············-····················-·······-Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415::.......................·-························-···Elysian Lodge No. 418.-···-····-········-········-··-·-···-··············-·-·.- ·-···

531.12
605.11

645.28
89.92
372.05
258.34
300.00

DlSBURSJ!MieNTS.
Paid Expense Account ·················-·····-··-··············-········-.$3,231,30
Paid Masonic Employment Bureau .............;···········-···- 300.00
Paid Classified by Jurisdictions ........................................15,299.96
Total ........................................,..·-································-··

$18,831.26

Balance September 1, 1913...:.~----·················-···-··-················-$
All which is respectfully submitted.

523.80

]. H. Bl!AN, President.

Attest:
]. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.

308.72
337.84
253.60
389.84
119.92

186.64
124.80
48.16

220.88
76.64
95.84
113.98

---

Total --·················-··-·····-·······-~·-·-·················-··-··········-·······---.$6,573.fl

RECAPITULATION
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand September 1, 1912........·-·-····-·-·v··-.$ 104.45
Received from Grand Lodge of California.................. 4,000.00
Received from Los Angeles City Lodges......·-············· 6,573.~
Received from Sister Jurisdictions -·-···-·---········· 8,525.41
Received from Interest, Rents, etc_········-··---········ 152.12
Total -··;..····--····-·····-·····-·-----··-·········---·-·····-

147

$19,355.06

OAKLAND BOARD OF RELIEF.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith respectfully
presents its annual report, from September 5, 1912, to September 3,
1913, inclusive.
The present officers have been elected to serve until the first
Wednesday in January, 1914, and they are: Thomas Robert Tilley
Chairman; C. E. Powell, Treasurer; J. ]. Warner, Secretary.
'
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from September 5,
1912, to September 3, 1913, inclusive, are as follows :
•

U:CJ!IPTS.

Live Oak Lodge, No. 61.............................._......._..____···--.$455.55
Oakland Lodge, No. 188--- ·······························-················· 377.30
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225·-·--········································-······ 211.95
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244--··-····································"'······· 240.55
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349-··---·-···:·····-···························· 274.15
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336..........·-··-·································- 203.85
Bay View Lodge, No. "401---·--·-·-···················'···:......... 127.20
Yerba Buena Lodge, .No. 403-·-·····-··-·-····'··'···············-· 72.35 $1,962.90
Interest on money deposited in bank.................·-···················'·-··-· 189.44
Refunded by Lodges in California..- ..·-········'····················,-•··········· 1,563.30
Refunded by Lodges in other Jurisdictions.................................... 1,245.90 .
Refunded by individuals -·········-·······-············· ... .... ........................... 177.00
Dividend
5.50
-

.............0

. . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .

•••

..

••

•

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .u

. . . . . . . . ..

$5,144.04

REPORT O~ CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

bearing date June 3, 1863. The history of Masonry in South Dakota,
and the history of the State itself, are practically contemporaneous, and
the observation is made that St. John_'s Lodge has not only given inany
distinguished Masons to the jurisdiction but also eminent statesmen to
the commonwealth.
'
·
Under Necrology, he refers to the death within the year of that
well-beloved friend and c~mpanion, Most Worshipfui Oscar S~ Gifford,
Past Grand Master, one who was closely identifie.d with the progress
of Dakota for over forty years, and who was held in hfgh. esteem by
thousands of friends eve~ywhere. He was a ~ell-kno~n figure for
many years in the Grand Lodge of South Dakota, and his genial presence and kindly coun~el, we are assured, will be ·greatly missed.
Seven Lodges which recei.ved charters at the preceding Annual
Communication were duly constituted, and t.he account of the 300-mile
auto trip of Grand Master McMakin, through Indian reservation and
scenic lands to 'constitute certain of these Lodges, is v.ividly set forth
by the Grand Master, with accompanying pictorial illustration, in his
strong address.

From the report of the Grand Secretary, information is obtained
that the members in good standing at this time exceed a total of
10,000, a gain of 522 being recorded for the year.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the newly formed Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
In the evening of the first day of the Communication, the members
of the Grand Lodge joined in the celebration of the SOth anniversary
of St. John's Lodge No. l, which received its dispensation Decemoer
18, 1862.
A splendid program of music and addresses was rendered, and
the occasion was voted, at its close, as being one of the most auspicious
ever held in the jurisdiction.

146

Dispensations were granted b)( the Grand Master for the formation
of five new Lodges. Not more than three so-called <:lecisiovs were
rendered by the Grand Master, one of which was as follows:
"A brother having been raised to the Sublime degre~ of M. M.
is entitled to all the rights and benefits of Masonry notwithstanding he has not signed the constitution and by-laws or passed an
examination in the lectures of the M. M. degree."
Sure!
The Grand Master refers to his inability to follow in the footsteps of his illustrious predecessors in the matter of visitations to
subordinate Lodges, and finding, as he says, that it was impossible
to have his work in this respect compare favorably with his predecessors, he contented himself with visiting those Lodges in the hills,
which he was able to do without making any extended tours.
A number of comer-stones were laid under Masonic auspices
during ·the year. At some of the ceremonies, the Grand' Master was
able to preside in person, and where not able to thus preside, the
ceremonies were conduded by his duly constituted proxies.
The Grand Master, at the close of his year of service, experiences,
so he states, in laying down the gavel of authority, a feeling of pleasant
memory, blended with an appreciation of the responsibility he carried
during the year, and a sense of gratitude that he is able to turn the
gavel of authority over to his successor with the general condition of
peace and prosperity prevailing throughout the jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction has a Charity Fund amounting to something over
$8,000, and its obligations· of relief are, we believe, faithfully discharged.

•

147

That Masonry is sometimes by some people regarded as a religious
institution may be inferred from the following paragraph taken from
the address of Brother G. W. Kingsbury, one of the founders of St.
John's Lodge. He says:
"Masonry is a religious institution, because it is built on the
everlasting foundation of a belief in one God, Supreme, the Architect of the entire Universe, in whom everything has its life being
and motion ; and it takes its principles and precepts from th~ Holy
Bible. Freemasonry is not denominational in any sense, but every
Mason is bound to observe the cardinal principles which his belief
and the rules and guide of his faith a nd practice, imply."
'
The regular Grand Orator, Worshipful Brother M. F. Montgomery
being absent, the Grand Master invited Brother Brockway to address
the Grand Lodge, which he did to the pleasure and delight of the Grand
Lod!!"e.
The report on Fraternal Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Samuel S. Brown.
His review is a good one in which California, 1912, is briefly and
courteously considered.
Owl!N H. WILLIAMS, elected Grand Master, Springfield.
Gl!o. A. Pi!TTJGRl!W, re-elected Grand Secretary, Sioux Falls.
TENNESSEE.

1913.

In compliance with the provision of the constitution, the NinetyGrand Lodge of the
ninth Annual Communication of the M:.
State of Tennessee, beginning on Wednesday, January 29, 1913, at
10 a. m., was opened by Grand Master J. Lynn Bachman.
The Grand Master, in opening his address, refers to the irreparable
loss suffered by !he Grand Lodge in the year preceding in the death
of the "peerless whole-souled" A. V. Warr, Past Grand Master.

w:.

REPORT ON CORRijlSPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Master states that Brother Warr was elected Grand
Master from the floor of the Grand Lodge in 1877, without service as
Warden, an honor conferred upon only two other Master Masons in
Tennessee. Andrew Jackson and Edward Dillahunty.
Brother Warr. served longer on the Committee on Jurisprudence
than any other Mason in the State, and undoubtedly was one of the
great characters in this jurisdiction.
The Grand Master's report is the record of a year of Masonic
activity, covering ceremonies in connecti'on with the laying of cornerstones at six different places within the jurisdiction in the year preceding, the constitution of Lodges, etc.
Interpretations in the way of so-called rulings of local law were
made during the year, but nothing, we believe, having general in~erest.

The closing ceremony of the .Annual Communication was the
presentation of the "signet ring," symbol of authority: which obtains
in this jurisdiction, ·the pn:sentation being made by Brother J. Lynn
Bachman, the retiring Grand Master, with response in fitting and
well-chosen words hy the new Grand Master, the Most Worshipful
Charles Comstock.
An examination of the Grand Secretary's statistical report shows
a total membership of 26,242, a net gain of 653 over the preceding
year.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, by Past Grand
Master Henry A. Chambers. An . intelligent and concise review of
most of the jurisdictions holding fraternal relations with Tennessee
are considered, California, 1912, being reviewed, with liberal quotations from the Grand Master's Address.
Complimentary reference is made to Brofoer Forshay's oration,
"Temple and Character Building," with two paragraphs selected therefrom.
CHARLES CoMsTOCK, Grand Master, Crossville.
JoHN B. GARRETT, Grand Secretary, Nashville.

148

Of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, the Grand Master
has this to say:
"I am glad to report that the Home is in a p~osperous condition.
It is faithfully and efficiently managed. God m great mercy has
kept His good hand over all the little ones, and all eyes have been
kept from tears, and all feet frtVn falling and all souls. from
death.
'
"I asked the brethren of the subordinate Lodges to make a
donation of twenty-five (25) cents per capita this year for the upkeep of the Home. My circul:ir letter was sent to all the Lo~ges
and its contents known, and m response the Home has received
$1.944.26, and for which goodly sum in the name of the Home I
offer most appreciative thanks.
"I am sure that the day of. hard toil and enduring sacrifice is
over and that this spJendid exhi)lition of Masonic love, relief and
confidence will march on under the benediction of God _and the
earnest c~-operation of all the brethren of this jurisdiction to
izreater usefulness and more glorious results, until the ~aso~ic
Widows' and Orphans' Home of Tennessee shall open wide its
doors to every· widow and orphan who shall ask our care and protection."
That peace and harmony prevail within the jurisdiction of Tennessee may be judged from the following paragraph taken from the "Conclusion" of the Grand Master's Address:
.
"So far as I know not a single event has transpired during the
year to disturb that good feeling which should always exist among
Masons. There has been great zeal and steady increase of interest
among the workmen in all parts of the temple. I have not been
required to appoint a commission or hear an appeal."
A eulogy expressive of the exalted character of Past Grand
Master Americus V. Warr was, in the second day of the session, read by
Past Grand Master Henry A. Chambers.

T

149

TEXAS.

1912.

In compliance with the prov1s1ons of the Constitution of the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Texas, Ancient Free and Accepted
Masons, the Seventy-seventh Grand Annual Communication was held
at the Masonic Temple, in the city of Waco, commencing on Tuesday,
the 3rd day of December, A. D. 1912, A. L. 5912, at 10 :00 o'clock a. m.,
Sam P . Cochran, Grand Master, in the Chair.
The first subject to which the mind of t he Grand Master reverts,
after the Grand Lodge is assembled, is the loss w11ich the Grand Lodge
has suffered in the year in the passing onward to his place in the
Supreme Grand Lodge above of the Most Worshipful Dr. Thomas M.
Matthews, the Senior Past Grand Master of Masons of Texas, who
was called to his reward on June 14, 1912, he having attained t he
ripe age of eighty-two.
Notwithstanding Dr._ Matthews' advanced age, his intellect remained
strong and virile to the very last. For many years he conducted the
Department of Foreign Correspondence in the jurisdiction of Texas,
and he was known throughout the Masonic World as a valued contributor for many years to Masonic literature. His various reports as
Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence give him front
rank among Masonic writers. His command of English was, it has
been stated, wonderful, his diction was pure and bis understanding of
Masonic lore and literature was so complete that his expositions of

..
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

law were illuminating and forceful: The vast fund of information
contained in the numberless pages written by· him during the years
of his long life will prove of priceless value to his brethren. "The
Brethren of Texas," says the Grand Master in his eulogy, "are proud
of the ·career of this good man and Mason and will ever hold in
grateful remembrance his noble and distinguished service in behalf
of Ancient Craft Masonry, cherishing the hope that the lofty sentiments, high ideals and courtesy as seen in his life and labor, will •be
a help and inspiration to men and Masons everywhere."
To give an idea of the vast extent of the jurisdiction of Texas, it
may be stated that twenty-three Lodges that received charters at the
preceding Annual Communication were constituted during the year,
either by the Grand Master personally, or by his duly authorized
deputies, and eight dispensations were issued to form new Lodges,
and as further evidence of the extent of the operations of this Grand
Lodge, it may be mentioned that corner··Stones to twenty-nine public
buildings, school houses, Masonic buildings, churches, etc., were laid
during the year under Masonic auspices.
.
Permission was refused by the Grand Master in at least one case
to a Lodge to attend in a body Divlne Service. We think the Grand
Master's judgment in refusing permission in this case is sound. We
believe it is not· in accordance with our understanding of Masonry
that Blue Lodges should attend seNices of denominational churches.
Individual Masons should, by all means, perform the duty of ;i.ttending
upon frequent occasion divine services. in such churches as suit their
individual views and predilections, but it is, in our judgment, distinctly inappropriate for a Masonic Lodge in regalia to attend ·some
denominational church. Ancient Craft Masonry is founded upon the
belief in the Fatherhood of God and Brotherhood of Man, and is
supposed to be sufficiently broad and comprehensive to gather within
its encircling arms those who can unite upon these two grand propositions, but when it comes to singling out some particular denominational
church to ·assemble in in Masonic regalia, we think it is distinctly
inappropriate, notwithstanding the fact that a number of jurisdictions
on this contine.nt, particularly the Canadian Jurisdictions, favor the
idea, and frequent permissions are given by Grand Masters to attend
divine service in regalia.
A number of decisions were rendered by the Grand Master constructive of the local law and constitution of Texas, none of the decisio'ns, in our opinion, being of sufficient general importance to quote.
A number of rulings upon "physical disqualification" were made by
the Grand Master, and Texas is one of the jurisdictions that still holds
to the theory that a man must not only be possessed of inward qualifications, but of outward perfection as well before he can be made a
Mason.

While the benefits of Masonry in its operative days were quite
properly limited to those possessing physical strength, there is now in
speculative Masonry, which is the. only Masonry with which we deal,
or of which we have any knowledge, no reason for demanding such
absolute physical soundness such as is required by certain of our
American Jurisdictions, and which would exclude an applicant such as
was done a few years ago in this jurisdiction, because he was shy a
lobe of his left ear, or because, as in another case, a toe nail was
missing.
"It is the inner and not the outer qualifications," as we are taught
in the first degree, "that recommend· a man to be made a Mason,"
and, in our opinion, we should look more for soundness of character
r.ather .than absolute perfection of limb, in selecting our material for
Masonry'; and, furthermore, in our judgment, the position of the
Grand Lodge of England upon this subject contains a very large
degree of soundness in that it remands the decision in these cases to
the subordinate Lodges.
Consideration is given quite extensively by the Grand Master to
the s1,1bject of clandestine Masonry. This subject has caused this
Grand Jurisdiction, as it has caused other Grand Jurisdictions in recent
years, no little trouble; but a recent decision by the Supreme .Court
of Louisiana where suit was brought against the Grand Lodge by a
certain individual who claimed the right to establish so-called Cerne.a u
Scottish Rite Masonry iri Louisiana, on the ground that the Grand
Lodge, through its Grand Master, or some other official, had branded
this particular form of alleged Masonry as clandestine; and asking
damages therefor, decided that the established and universally recognized Grand Lodge of Masons was the recognized and supreme
authority on the subject within the jurisdiction, and had the right to
brand as clandestine and put upon it the brand of outlawry any interloping bodies calling themselves Masonic, and that the recognized
Grand Lodge bad absolute authority and could drive these pretenders
out of the State.
·
Under that decision there ought to be no trouble in regular Grand
Lodges ridding the various jurisdictions of these grafting fakers,
whose only purpose in sailing under the name "Masonic" is to rope
in the unwary and get their money by pretending .to sell them Masonic
degrees. They are frauds in all cases, and it is right and proper that
the courts of law should protect' the people against impostors of this
character.
In conclusion the Grand Master assures his brethren that the
remembrance of the year of service which he has given to the cause of
Freemasonry in Texas as Grand Master, will be one of the fondest
recollections of his life, and furthermore that the welfare and wellbeing of the grand organization will ever be his fondest hope.

150

,

•

151

152

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The report of the Grand Secretary discloses the fact that there
are now in Texas more than 56,<XX> Masons, and that a gain of nearly
2,200 over the preceding year was made.
Texas certainly is one of the finest Masonic jurisdictions in the
world, and that is in particular one feature of Texas Masonry that
lifts it to a very high plane, reference being made to the Masonic
Orphans' Home.
There are now at the Home under the guiding and directing care
of matron and superintendent and teachers, who are vitally interested
in their welfare, 206 orphan children. A school is maintained at the
Home (the children are not sent to the public schools) where a full
corps of competent, thoroughly equipped teachers impart instruction
and conduct a school much superior to the average public sc)10ol of the
State. A kindergarten is provided for the little ones, and for the more
advanced, literature, domestic science, stenography, bookkeeping, typewriting, mechanical and electrical training, military tactics, drill, etc.,
and at the same time their moral and religious training is not neglected.
Some American Jurisdictions where the Ma.sonic Home idea has
been decried, and where so-called Educational Funds have been laud~d
as supplying the same service as that'performed by the Masonic Home,
have reported, as can be easily pointed out from their reports, that
during a year few, if any, applications have been made to those having
these Funds in charge for disbursement for the benefit of orphans.
It is not possible to conclude from the fact that no applications have
been made that no cases exist demanding this relief. The trouble is
they do not reach the cases and a complete answer is made to arguments of this character (where systems of this kind are put forth as
a proper substitute for the Masonic Home) by pointing to such jurisdictions as Texas where they have over 200 orphan children in their
Home, training them to become useful men and women, thereby supplying a leaven to raise the standard of citizenship of the entire commonwealth.
The Home in Texas has only been in existence something like
thirteen years, and we find that it is now not only the object of the
greatest pride to the jurisdiction but is regarded by the people at
large as one of the valued institutions of the State.
The report of the President and Trustees of the Masonic Home
contains a statement of general interest, which we quote as follows :
"The Masonic Fraternity throughout our common country is
doing a wonderful amount of good in maintaining Homes for
Masons, their widows and orphans. There are twenty-nirie such
Homes in successful operation in the United States, and eight
other Grand Jurisdictions are accumulating a fund for the same
purpose. These Homes provide accommodation for over 3,000
beneficiaries, and during their existence have sheltered and cared

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

,

"Ill

,

153

for more than 6,<XX>, the total value of the property exceeding
$6,<XX>,<XX>. Most of these Homes are owned by the Grand Lodge
though some are c~ntrolled by 3: Board of Directors elected by th~
several Grand Bodies; there bemg two notable exceptions one in
. Iowa owned and maintained by the Order of the Easte;n Star,
and our Home for Aged Masons in Texas owned by the Grand
Royal Arc;h Chap~er .. While some have a iarge endowment fund,
all are c;h1efly mamtamed by a per capita tax, and in most States
that tax 1s larg·er than for our own Home in Texas. In practically all
of these Homes the children attend the public free schools and
the averag~ per capita c~st of "?aintenance of all, including' aged
Masons, widows and children, 1s one hundred and ninety-eight
dol~ars? more than it has ever cost the Grand Lodge of Texas to
mamtam our. Home, where we employ our own teachers and have
our school directly under our own control and management.
"Th~se ~ason_ic Homes are a great blessing, even to the Mason
who aids m their support; such aid develops the grace of charity
and ma~e~ men better. Who. that assists in caring for, educating
an? !rammg the orpha~ children of his deceased brother and
brmgmg them to the highest type of excellence is not profited
thereby, and all this at so small a personal sacrifice."
The report on Foreign Correspondence was written by the late
Dr. Thomas M. Matthews, Senior Grand Master of Texas, Chairman.
He was serving his twenty-fifth term as Chairman of the Committee
on Foreign Correspondence when he departed his life on June 14,
1912. He fell, it is stated, in the full possession of his faculties and
the active discharge of his duties. He had pursued his work with
such diligence that his completed manuscript, reviews of forty-four
of the Grand Lodges, lay upon his table when he expired; and the
new chairman of the committee, Past Grand Master George W. Tyler,
who was appointed by the Grand Master to succeed Dr. Matthews, felt
that no profane hand should touch the final report of the revered Past
Grand Master and that, although not absolutely complete so far as a
review of all the jurisdictions was concerned, it nevertheless should go
into the volume of the proceedings untouched by any hand other than
that of Dr. Matthews, and we therefore have a report of forty-four
Grand Jurisdictions as the final report of Dr. Matthews.
The death angel touched his hand as he was working upon the
report on Wyoming, and there his la,bor ceased.
California, 1911, is considered. It is an excellent review of the
proceedings at which Grand Master Weller presided. Brother Burnett's oration is referred to as a fine address, and the charitable
manifesta,tions of the Grand Lodge, as disclosed in the reports of the
Masonic Home Committees, are commented upon and commended.
]. ]. MANSFII!LD, elected Grand Master, Columbus.
JoHN WATSON, re-elected Grand Secretary, Waco.

164

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

.UTAH.

were received with th!! Grand Honors, and the Grand Master extended
to them fraternal welcome, and expounded in an eloquent manner some
of the broad principles of the institution and their universal acceptance
and application.

1913.

The M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
Utah convened in its Forty-second Annual Communication in the
Masonic Temple, Salt Lake City, Tuesday, the 21st of January, ~- D.
1913, at 10 o'clock a. m., Deputy Grand Master George Henry Dern
presiding.
·
·
The Grand Master was, through force ·of circumstances, unable
tci be present at the Annual Communication, and his Annual Address,
which was the record of a busy year, was read by the Grand Secretary._
The opening of the address is as follows :
"Brethren: It · is with keen regret. that I welcome you to this
Forty-second Annual Communication through the lips of another.
But Masonry teaches loyalty to duty, and a duty which has a
primary claim upon my time demands that I shall be elsewhere.
That I would have avoided this ,sacrifice of personal preference
and feelings, had i~ be,en in my 12ower to do so, I hardly ne.e d to
tell you. Ii:i fact,' the thought of' being d'e nied the great privilege
of meeting with· you in this Arinual Communication and of presiding over, arid sharing in your deliberations was, 1 mnst confes'f
almost too· much for my appreciation of values, and my loyalty
to .the greater duty. ,
".But, the personal .a side, it is .a joy·. to me to report to you t!'ia~
~he Craft is in a most sati.slactory condition throughout the jtirisdiction. Everywhere I have' found enthusiasm, and· unity and
harmony, as well as a common purpose to interpret · to the world
the spirit of Masonry as a regnant force in individual and community life."
.
T!i,e. Grand Master reported that during the year he visited all
of the Lodges of the jurisdiction at least once, and several of them
oftener, which is an evidence of the faithfulness with which he performed the duties of his office.
He reported that two Lodges were constituted by him in the year
and is able to state at the close of the year that the Lodges, through
earnest and successful labor, have fully justified their creation.
The Grand Secretary reported that, with the exception 'of one
Lodge, all of the subordinate Lodges show a substantial increase in
members, and a wholesome Masonic spirit. The net gain. in membership for the year is shown to exceed a hundred.
A pleasing ceremony which took place in the afternoon of the first
day of the session was the reception of Grand Representatives.
The Grand Master invited the Grand Representatives of sister
jurisdictions in attendance to the Grand East, and after calling the
members of the Grand Lodge to their feet, the Grand Representatives

155

The following resolution, as a slight evidence of the affection in
which the late Right Worshipful Grand Secretary, Christopher Diehl,
was held, was, upon recommendation of the Committee on Finance,
unanimously adopted :

"Resolved, That a sum not to exceed $500 be appropriated to
purchase a suitable tablet to be placed in the Masonic Temple at
Salt Lake City, Utah, to the memory of our late R.". w: . Grand
Secretary, Christopher Diehl, and that the Grand Master be
authorized to appoint a committee of three to purchase the same.
"H!!NRY HUGHl!S."

•

The installation of the newly elected Grand Officers took place in
the evening of the second day, and the newly elected Grand Master,
Most Worshipful George Henry Dem, was duly seated in the Grand
East. In connection with his investiture, the "signet ring," token of
authority, which in this jurisdiction is passed from one Grand Master
down to another, was, in fitting words, presented by Most Worshipful
Brother Charles Wesley Moore, and accepted with suitable and graceful.
response by the Grand Master.
After the conclusion of the Annual Communication, the members
of the Grand Lodge were entertained at a delightful banquet, · given
to the members of the Grand Lodge by the four Lodges of Salt Lake
City. Worshipful Brother Job Henry Winwood extended the invitation
in behalf of the several Lodges.
The report on Correspondence is by the new Grand Secretary,
Brother Charles B. Jack, Brother Christopher Diehl, who for so many
years wrote the reports on correspondence having within the previous
year been called by the Supreme Grand Master to his reward.
Brother Jack, at the outset of his report, expresses the r~luctance
he feels in presuming to follow in Brother Diehl's footsteps, that
brother having performed the work of Correspondent for thirty-six
vears, and having during that time filled the position with distinction
an~ ability.
.
:~rather Jack's initial effort discloses conscientious and careful
attention; and he will be cordially welcomed to the circle of Masonic
reviewers.
California, 1911, is courteously considered.
Bro. Gl!oRGI! H!!NRY D!!RN, Grand Master, Salt Lake City.
Bro. CHARLES B. ]ACK, Grand Secretary, Salt Lake City.

156

REPORT ON CORRE1SPONDENCE.

VERMONT.

1913.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of Vermont convened in its rooms in the Masonic Temple,
city of Burlington, on Wednesday, the 11th day of June, A. L., 5913,
at the hour of 10 o'clock in the forenoon, Eugene S. Weston, Grand
Master, presiding.
In opening his Annual Address, the Grand Master makes clear
his belief in the Masonic teaching that one should never enter upon
any great and important undertaking without first invoking the blessing of the Deity, and in this connection indicates his conviction that it
is only because Freemasonry has ever acknowledged divine guidance
that it has• survived the vicissitudes of the ages.
In welcoming the Grand Lodge, and in looking over the assemblage,
representative of a membership of nearly 14,000, his mind goes back
in retrospect to the assembly of those who gathered 120 years before
to form the Grand Lodge of Vermont.
The original meeting comprised fourteen brave and valiant .soul.s,
'strong in their belief in Freemasonry, strong in patriotic impulses ahd
love of country, men who had endured hardships and privations as
pioneers in a new country; three of them, so the Grand Master s~ates, •
were with Ethan Allen when he marched upon the fortress of Ticonderoga, and others of the fourteen served their country in the War
for Independence.
The Grand Master gives expression to the thought that the
Masons in Vermont may well be proud that they can trace their
Masonic ancestry to men cast in such heroic molds as these.
In speaking of Fraternal Dead, the Grand Master especially refers
to Herbert L. Townsend, Grand Tyler, who passed away early in the
current year; also Brother Henry L. Stillson, for many years a member of the Committee on Credentials in the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master paid personal visits within the year to all but
two of the districts and from these personal visitations, and otherwise,
he is able 'to report that the Craft is in a healthy condition in all
respects.
·
The Grand Lodge was convened in August, 1912, to dedicate to
Freemasonry, Virtue and Universal Benevolence, the hall of Mt. St.
Anthony Lodge No. 13; and on October 23rd a Special Communication
of the Grand Lodge was held for the purpose of laying the cornerstone of the New Haven High School Building.
A little friction between the Grand Lodge of Vermont and the
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts over a matter of dual membership,
involving the right of a member of the Vermont Lodge to hold, without

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

15j.

demitting therefrom and while still a member of the Vermont Lodge,
membership in a Massachusetts Lodge. Correspondence between the
two Grand Jurisdictions was characterized by the utmost courtesy,
and the matter which threatened misunderstanding was finally adjusted
to the complete satisfaction of the Grand Master of Vermont, the
Grand Master of Massachusetts disclaiming any purpose to offend the
Jurisdiction of Vermont, although under the law of Massachusetts dual
membership is permitted, something very rare in American Grand
J arisdictions, although usually recognized as permi~sible by the Grand
Lodge of England.
The Grand Master refers to his visit to Alexandria, Virginia, upon
the occasion of the meeting of the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association on February 21st and 22nd. Very little appears to
have been accomplished at this meeting beyond the mere exchange of
social and fraternal courtesies.
The Grand Master speaks of the subscriptions made up to thfs
time, amounting to about $2,000, $500 of the amount )laving been used
for expenses, leaving a balance of about $1,500 still in the hands of the
local committee. The Grand Master states in his report of this meeting that he supposed that the subscription of Vermont for membership
in the association was to go to the building fund, but he finds that it
was used to promote the enterprise.
The Grand Master expresses a little doubt as to the practical value
10 the outside jurisdictions of a Memorial Hall at Alexandria, Va.,
and makes a statement, in which a great many will concur, that, viewed
from the standpoint of sentiment, he fails to see wherein outside jurisdictions are called upon to assist the local Lodge at Alexandria, Va.,
over which Washington once presided, in erecting such a building as
is projected, and about the only value he can see to the participating
Grand Lodges is that this building will make a yearly meeting place
for the representative Masons from the several jurisdictions, and will
give a chance for the interchange of ideas that may possibly benefit
those who participate.
We fail to agree that it has value for this purpose, and we believe
that a so-called "clearing house" for Grand Lodges in settling matters
of dispute is not a proper or necessary adjt1 nct of ancient Craft
Masonry in America.
A small number of so-called decisions are quoted by the Grand
Master, none, however, of general interest. The Grand Master is constrained to the belief . that possibly the Grand Lodge of Vermont is
11ot manifesting to any marked degree its function• of Masonic
diarity.
The question of Masonic charity has, so he states, been up for the
attention of the Grand Lodge many· years. The Grand Master states

158

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

that he himself, wherever occasion has offered, for twenty years pa~t
advocated some action on the part of the Vermont Grand Lodge,
looking to the establishment of something permanent in the nature of
a Masonic charity.
He calls attention to the large number of jurisdictions in the United
States supporting Masonic Homes, and in su,ch jurisdictions as have
no Homes a large number are accumulating funds, the incomes of
which are' intended for the relief of the aged and infirm. or the
orphans. He calls attention to the State of Delaware, with only
twenty-two Lodges and a membership of a little more than 3,000,
having within the year dedicated the Masonic Home.
He calls attention to Maine, with a membership about as large as
Vermont, with a fund of $60,000 for charitable purposes; to New
Hampshire with a similar membership and a fewer number of Lodges
maintaining a Masonic Home; to Idaho with only thirty-one Lodges
and a membership of 3,568, with a Fund known as the Orphans' Fund;
and he contrasts these jurisdictions with Vermont, with neither a Home
nor a Fund.
.
The Grand Master urges that something definite in the direction
indicated be done, and that future yetts be not spent, as seems to. have
been the case heretofore, in discussing "glittering generalities."
In concluding his admirable address, the Grand Master observes
that "Freemasonry performs its best results in the quiet of the lodge
room and in tactful watchfulness over those who have a claim upon
us for kindly encouragement and loving sympathy. Our labors may
not have shown any appreciable results, but future years may bring
forth fruit and those who follow us may see the fruit of our labor.
No good deed or kindly act ever failed to produce results."
From the report of the Grand Secretary, we learn that the total
membership at this time is 13,610 and that a net gain of 167 was made
over the preceding year.
A distinguished visitor in the person of Most Worshipful E. C.
Benton, Grand Master of Massachusetts, who was received with
Masonic honors at this Communication, favored the Grand Lodge with
an appropriate and happy address, and the election of officers for the
next ensuing year having taken place, the Grand Master elect (Eugene
S. Weston, re-elected) enjoyed the honor of b_e ing installed in a most
impressive manner by the Grand Master of Massachusetts.
In pursuance of the recommendation of the Grand Master, a
definite start was made in the creation of a Charity Fund, and in accordance with the report of the Special Charity Committee, $1,000 was
set aside from the General Fun_d to form the nucleus of a Charity
Fund to be added to and increased as rapidly as possible from year to
year, and a Special Charity Fund Committee was created, consisting of
six members, to be appointed by the Grand Master, to act in conjunc-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

159

tion with the following ex-officio members: the Grand Master, the
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Senior Warden, Grand Junior Warden,
and Grand Secretary.
The report on Fraternal Correspondence is, as usual, by Past Grand
Master Marsh 0. Perkins.
His report .constitutes a·n excellent review of the various Grand
Jurisdictions in which California, 1912, the meeting at Los Angeles,
where no "slum or redlight district can be found within the ·corporate
limits," is considered.
·
Quotations are made from Grand Master Munroe's Address.
Complimentary reference is made to the work of the Boards of Relief
in California, and quotation is taken from the "eloquent oration pronounced by w:. M.". James A. Foshay, P. G. M.
EUGENE S. WESTON, re-elected Grand Master, New Haven.
HENRY H . Ross, re-elected Grand Secretary, Buriin_g ton.
VIRGINIA.

1913.

The One Hundred and Thirty-fifth Grand Annual Communication
of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted
Masons of the S'tate of Virginia, was held in the 'Masonic Temple, in
the city of Richmond, on Tuesday, the 1 lth day of February, A. L.
5913, A. D. 1913, with Grand Master William L. Andrews in the Chair.
T he Grand Master, in the Introduction of his Address to the
Grand Lodge, extends . felicitations to the brethren upon the marked
prosperity which the jurisdiction is enjoying, and gives expression to
the sentiment t~at_ as the members of the Grand Lodge gather in
Annual Communication from year to year, they should pledge themselves to a renewal each year of service to their brethren, in exemplifying in their lives the fundamental doctrines of the Fraternity-the
Brotherhood of Man resting upon the Fatherhood of God.
Joy, he states, quickly turns to sorro'IY in the ·realization brought
home to them that the death angel may at any moment touch some
loved one, and this thought is deeply impressed at this moment upon
the Grand Master, for he states that his ·report was written, and the
dosing words had been added, when the news was flashed over the
wires bringing sorrow to thousands of Masonic hearts in the announcement that the Grand Secretary, Right Worshipful George W. Carrington, had, almost without warning, been called to "come up higher."
Brother Carrington was one 'of the best known Masons of the
jurisdiction and his unexpected demise came as a shock to his brethren.
Another beloved brother of this jurisdiction was called to his
rewa rd within the year, Brother John Moncure, affectionately known
as the "Bishop of the Poor."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
160

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Sympathetic reference is made by the Grand Master to the Fraternal Dead of other jurisdictions. In speaking of the condition of
the Craft, the Grand Master states that, in his opinion, Lodges having
a membership of less than 100, do more for the cause of Masonry, and
show more enthusiasm than when they number hundreds, and we
believe that it is generally accepted as a fact that Lodges with a membership of Jess than, say 200, are more efficient in promoting genuine
brotherhood and fraternal feeling than in larger Lodges, because a
greater opportunity is afforded f~r _the contact of one in?ivid~al
brother with another, thereby establishing closer personal relationships
than is possible where a Lodge numbers 500 or 1,000 members.
Speaking of decisions, the Grand Master states that the br~thren
are either becoming too well posted on the law to need construction ~f
it at the hands of the Grand Master, or they have feared to tax his
limited capacity in that direction, or except, as he states, the District
Deputies have been equal to the occasion in answering perplexing q~es­
tions on Masonic Law.
In any event, the Grand Master made only four decisions withi~
the year.
.
One of the questions propoundetl, and the answer given, was as
follows:
The by-laws of a certain Lodge provided that the stated meeting
shall be at 8 :00 o'clock. The Master, through error, opened at 7 :30'
o'clock, the ballot was spread, and petitioners elected and subsequently
received all the degrees.
Does the error of the Master impair the regularity of the election
of the candidates, no objection being made until they had received
all degrees?
The Grand Master's answer is as follows:
"The Master erred in opening his Lodge contrary to the by-laws.
but his error does not affect the Masonic status of those who were thell'.
elected and subsequently received the degrees."
The decision is unquestionably sound, although some, devoted to
technicalities; would maintain that if the Worshipful Master could
open the Lodge thirty minutes in advance of the time provided for in
the by-laws, and the meeting be considered legal, he could, on the
same principle, open the Lodge an hour, or twenty-four hours, b~fore.
the time stipulated in the by-laws and the meeting and the business
transacted therein would, for like reasons, be legal.
The fact, however, that the slight variation in the hour of the
meeting described in the query was not for the p_urpose of ~'snap.
judgment" or other ulterior purpose, but that an innocent mistake·
had been made, and furthermore that there was no objection ta~en at
the time and that the degrees were subsequently conferred without
objection, certainly justified the Grand Master in declaring that . the

,

161

Masonic status of those who received the degrees was not adversely
affected through error.
The Grand Master granted dispensations to form four new Lodges.
Corner-stone ceremonies were conducted, either by himself or by
proxies acting for him, to the number of not less than seventeen, which
would indicate that the Grand Master was correct in his observation
that while his predecessors in the Grand East congratulated themselves
that they had laid all the comer-stones in the State, he yet was able
to find a few "lying around loose" which he either personally laid, or
delegated the pleasant task to others.
Of visitations, the Grand Master states that on being inducted
into office, he warned the brethren that he would spend their money
in visiting them. He surely made good his warning to a large extent,
for it was his rare privilege to visit seventy-five Lodges singly or in
joint convention during his term of office.
He paints in deep, rich coloring, the journeys which he made to
different sections of the jurisdiction and the magnificent receptions
that were tendered to him on all occasions, and the spirit of good will
and friendship that he found everywhere and which filled his heart
with a glow of warmth and love for the splendid Masons of the jurisdiction.
There are many historical associations in the old jurisdiction of
Virginia. At two of the large meetings participated in by the several
Lodges, the Bible used in conferring the degrees was the one upon
which the illustrious Father of his Country, General George Washington, was obligated on as a Master Mason in 1775, the Bible being
the property of Fredericksburg Lodge No. 4, and when used away from
that Lodge, as it was at least on one of these occasions, was sent under
a Guard of Honor from the Lodge to which it belonged.
The Masonic Home is referred to by the Grand Master in his
report as the one thing of vital concern to the Masons of Virginia,
and it appears from reading the reports of the Trustees of the Home
that it is carrying forward in a satisfactory manner the high functions
of its organization, and may well be viewed with pride by the Masons
of the Old Dominion.
That the Worshipful Grand Master is filled with the milk of human
kindness ls evident from the statement in the concluding paragraph
of his address, wherein he states that he has sought to apply the laws
not in an arbitrary or inflexible manner but with kindness, admonishing
where unwitting transgression has taken place, not with harshness but
in a manner to save wounding the feelings of others. He states that
he expected to make some mistakes and is very grateful that he has
escaped without inflicting injury, and that he has never failed purposely
to accord the most considerate treatment to every brother. He feels,
8

162

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

therefore, in laying down the gavel that he may consider every Mason
in the jurisdiction as his friend.
From the statement of the Committee on Finance, it appears that
the net assets of the Grand Lodge at this time are $147,527.62.
Exhaustive reports are made by the various District Deputy Grand
Masters, from which it appears that the jurisdiction is in a ·most
healthful and prosperous condition.
Among the resolutions adopted, we find the following, and we
are sure that future generations will regard the jewel referred to in
the resolution as possessing great historical value. This is the resolution :
!'WHI!Rl!AS, The Grand Master's Jew~! is the same as that worn
by our first Grand Master at the orga.n ization of the Grand Lodge
in 1777; therefore,
"Resolved, That the above facts be suitably engraved upon said
Jewel, so as to place them on permanent historical record."
The total membership at this time is 23,317, a gain of 619 over the
preceding year, the chartered Lodges aggregating 321.
There is a splendid report on j'raternal Correspondence by Past
Grand Master Joseph W. Eggleston, one of the best loved Masons
in the jurisdiction. His report, .as usual, teems with interesting comment. His review of the Masonic world is comprehensive and his
selections for quotation most discriminating.
California, 1912, the Los Angeles meeting, is courteously reviewed,
with quotations from the Address of the Grand Master, and the report
of· the Jurisprudence Committee touching Grand Master's decisions,
everything meeting with Brother Eggleston's approval.
WILLIAM L. ANDRI!ws, elected Grand Master, Roanoke.
CHARLI!S A. NI!SBITT, re-elected Grand Secretary, Richmond.
WASHINGTON.

1912.

The Fifty-fifth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Washington convened
in the city of Seattle on Tuesday, the 11th day of June, A. D. 1912,
A. L. 5912, and was called to order by the M:. W: . Grand Master at
the hour of 10 o'clock a. m., Grand Master David S. Prescott presiding.
The Grand Lodge was welcomed to Seattle by Brother George F.
Cotterill of Seattle Lodge No. 164, and Mayor of the city of Seattle.
·T he Grand Lodge was further welcomed by W. ·. Brother Edgar
J. Wright, Chairman of the Masters and Wardens' Club of Seattle.

,

163

These addresses breathe the ambitious, dauntless spirit of the
West, and, while conveying to the Grand Lodge sincere welcome disc~ose, at .the same time, the vast pride felt by the speakers in 'their
city and its wonderful possibilities.
The response to the addresses of welcome was made by R. ·. w. ·.
Brother William J. Sutton, Jr., Grand Warden.
The .G~and Master, in opening his address, refers feelingly to the
de~t~ w1thm the year of the venerable Grand Chaplain, Reverend
Wilham Pelan, affectionately known as "Father" Pelan.
He had been identified with Masonry for more than half a century and served the Grand Lodge for a number of years as Grand
Chaplain.
The Grand Master also refers to the death of Brother William
Stephens, Grand Bible Bearer.
Among the Grand Master's decisions we find the following:
"The head waiter in a restaurant or cafe where liquor is sold
as a beverage cannot receive the degrees."
If ~e . were t? make any comment on this decision, we would say
that this, m our Judgment, is carrying class legislation to an extreme
and that it might be just as well to occasionally trust. the ballot to tak~
care of cases of this character.
The Grand Master sets forth public ceremonies in connection with
the dedication of three Masonic Temples, and the laying of four cornerstones of public buildings.
Eight Lo~ges. which received their charters at the preceding Annual Communication were duly constituted.
The Grand Master recounts his visit to the Masonic Home now
.
'
in process of creation at Puyallup.
He states that, in his judgment, the maintenance and building up
of the Masonic Home is of vital importance to the Craft and should
receive the careful consideration of the Grand Lodge.
"Clandestine Masonry" is causing some trouble to the brethren of
Washington, the same as it has done in California and elsewhere and
is a subject that in its trea tment calls for a degree of firmnes; and
vigor on the part of our Grand Lodges.
"Seattle," so the Grand Master states, "will soon boast of the
finest and best appointed Temple on the Pacific Coast." We trust no
offense will be taken if we qualify this statement by the addition of
the words "except the new million dollar Masonic Temple in San
Francisco, which will be dedicated at the Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of California in October of this year."
The officers and members of the Grand Lodge, also a large number of Masons and ladies of the Order of the Eastern Star took a
special excursion train on oni: of the days of the Annual Co~munica-

164

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

tion and went to Puyallup, the site of the new Masonic Home, and
the Grand Lodge there conducted the ceremony of setting aside and
dedicating the property for Masonic Home uses.
By virtue of recommendations embodied in a report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended
to the Grand Lodge of Porto Rico; it was denied to the Grand Orient
of Belgium, and it was held in abeyance concerning the York Grand
Lodge of Mexico.
A resolution was introduced to the effect that the Custodians of
the Work be instructed to prepare a suitable key to all the unwritten
work, and further that a copy of such key be placed with the officers
of each Lodge within the jurisdiction.
It is somewhat surprising to record that this resolution was very
extensively discussed, a motion to indefinitely postpone was lost, as
was also a motion to refer the resolution to the Committee on Jurisprudence; but finally, apparently from sheer exhaustion, a motion was
carried to postpone action indefinitely.
The matter of "perpetual jurisdiction" was under consideration,
and the following resolution from the Committee on Jurisprudence was
adopted:
"From the earliest history of this Grand Lodge it has claimed
the right to jud~e of the fitness of material residmg in this Grand
Jurisdiction. While recognizing the right of another Grand Jurisdiction to exercise perpetual jurisdiction over rejected material
while residence continues in that jurisdiction, we still affirm our
right as a Sovereign Grand Lodge to accept material, otherwise
qualified, regardless of previous rejection in another Grand Jurisdiction."
This unquestionably is the sensible doctrine, and coincides with
California's position on this question.
From an examination of the statistical table, we learn that there
are 187 Lodges in this jurisdiction, 9 under dispensation; that there
are 17,119 Masons, and a gain in membership of 1,443 over the preceding year is disclosed.
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master Ralph
C. Allester.
California, 1911, is reviewed.
Quotations are made from the addresses of the Grand Master and
Grand Orator, and he refers to the laying of the corner-stone of the
new Masonic Temple in San Francisco as the crowning event of the
session.
In his "conclusion" he, it seems to us truthfully, refers to the
growing assumptian by Grand Lodges of many of the functions which
belong to the subordinate Lodges.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

165

"The Proceedings of some Grand Lodges," so he states, "read like
the mandates of despotic power, not like the consultation and legislation of a representative body. Listen, brethren, to Brother Gorrell of
Saskatchewan when he says, 'Get back, get back, to the simplicity of
our fathers, when Lodges had some rights and were not smothered in
the injudicious attempts of Grand Bodies to legislate for every evil of
the Craft.'"
FRANK N. McCANDLESS, Grand Master, Tacoma.
HoRACI! W. TYLl!R, Grand Secretary, Tacoma.
WEST VIRGINIA.

1912.

The Forty-eighth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
West Virginia was held in the Masonic Temple at the city of Charleston, commencing on Wednesday, the 13th day of November, A. D. 1912,
A. L. 5912, at 7 :30 o'clock p. m., Grand Master John M. McConihay
presiding.
As is usual in this jurisdiction, a large number of Special Communications are held, particularly for the purpose of laying cornerstones, there being no other jurisdiction of which we have any knowledge that holds as many Special Communications for corner-stone laying purposes; at least thirteen such Special Communications were held
within the preceding year.
The Grand Master in his annual address gives expression to the
very great satisfaction experienced by him at the healthy condition of
the Craft in West Virginia. A net gain in membership of 881 is recorded, carrying the total membership to 15,768. The Grand Master
refers with feeling to the death within the year of Past Grand Master
Hiram R. Howard, who at the time of his death and for some years
previously had served the Grand Jurisdiction in a most acceptable
manner as Grand Secretary, and also as writer of the yearly report
on correspondence. He is referred to by the Grand Master in his address as a progressive, honorable and highly esteemed citizen, a
learned, zealous and enthusiastic Mason, and, above it all, as a Christian gentleman.
Two Lodges were constituted and two dispensations for new
Lodges were issued within the year.
Under the heading of "decisions" he records the fact that a number of questions were put to him for ruling, and that he was able to
answer practically all of these questions "by reference to the wellestablished law and usage."
He refers in his report to certain irregularities in connection with
the ballot, but his rulings and decisions were of a purely local character.

166

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

167

to said business; and, second, we deci~e that any Mas<?n en~aged
in the liquor business, and whose b.u~me~s has been d1scont.mue_d
or abolished by the laws of the m?mc1pahty or county wherein his
business is carried on, for the period of one or m?re years, cani;iot
be entitled to the protection granted by the proviso or exempt10n
contained in said Edict."

The Grand Treasurer reports total income of the Grand Lodge
from all sources as $9,639.98. In a jurisdiction of 16,000 members, this
would indicate that the Grand Lodge must be exceedingly modest in its
requirements.
This Grand Lodge. pays its Grand Treasurer 5 per cent of the total
income. His stipend for handling this limited income of the Grand
Lodge was about $400, nearly twice the amount received by the Grand
Treasurer of California, who handles an income of more than $100,000.
If the same rule of compensation of Grand Treasurer applied in California as obtains in West Virginia, the position of Grand Treasurer
would be, from a financial standpoint, a desirable office to hold. What
West Virginia pays its Grand Treasurer, however, is no particular concern of any one else, and the matter is mentioned simply as 'something. a
little out of the ordinary.
Full reports were rendered by the Grand Lecturer and his deputies, from which it appears that the ritualistic work of the jurisdiction
is conducted upon a high standard of excellence generally, and that the
jurisdiction is in a thrifty and prosperous condition.
An appeal was received from the Johnson's Island Confedera'te
Masonic Cemetery Commission for a little in the way of financial assistance to enable this Commission to carry on its laudable work of properly caring for this last resting pla<;e of certain Masons that fell in a
patriotic defense of their ideals. The Grand Lodge, in response to this
appeal, felt constrained to state that it was inexpedient to make the
asked for donation, and a negative reply was therefore returned to
the appeal.

In this jurisdiction there is maintained, in lieu of an Orphans'
Home what is known as an EDUCATIONAL FUND, and that West
Virgi~ia must be indeed a favored land we justly conclude from the
report of the distinguished committee having in charge this EDUCATIONAL FUND, which report is as follows:
"To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of West Virginia:
"Your Committee on Grand Lodge Educational Fund report
that during the past Masonic year n.o application has been ma~e
for any assistance at the hands of this Grand Lodge, through this
committee."
'The Report on Foreign Correspondence is from the practised hand
of Past Grand Master George W. Atkinson, the Grand Master in 1876
and 1877, Grand Secretary from 1896 to 1906, and the writer of
twenty-one Reports on Foreign Correspondence.
Brother Atkinson, in his introduction, pays a tribute to the memory
of Brother Hiram R. Howard, late Grand Secretary and Chairman of
the Committee on Foreign Correspondence.
Brother Atkinson expresses diffidence at again assuming a place
at the so-called "round table," but his ripe experience as a reviewer is
disclosed in his report, and the courtesy which he manifests in suc.h
comment and criticism as he feels called upon to make is token of his
eminent fitness, and his' return to the ranks of the reviewers will be
cordially welcomed.
In the report before us, California, 1911, is considered. He speaks
in warmest praise of the charitable work done by California, referring
particularly to our two Masonic Homes, and the different Boards of
Relief, and adds that, in his opinion, no Grand Lodge spends so much
money for the aid of distressed and needy brethren. as do~s the .G_r~nd
Lodge of California ; and as a defense to any d1sparagmg crit.1c1sm
which might be made of his Grand Lodge in its amount of charitable
disbursements he says that, as a rule, each of the subordinate Lodg~s
in his jurisdiction. provides for its own needy members, and that this
explains why the Charity Fund of the Grand Lodge appears so small.
We have no doubt the Brother is right, and that it is quite true that the
Masons of his jurisdiction are not in any way shirking their responsibility in this important Masonic duty.
CHAS. W. LYNCH, elected Gran_d Master, Clarksburg.
JoHN M. CoLLINS, re-elected Grand Secretary, Charleston.

West Virginia has adopted a constitutional prov1S1on similar to.
that adopted in California a year ago, concerning the penalty of forfeiture of membership incurred by those members who engage in the
liquor business, and as a precedent upon which our Lodges may be presumed to proceed in ~ases of this kind in the future the following,
from the report of the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, may be
of interest :
"The Constitution provides that"Any member of any Lodge in this jurisdiction who shall hereafter engage in the sale of intoxicating liquors, except for medicinal or mechanical purposes, shall be considered guilty of unmasonic
conduct, and it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of such
Lodge to prefer charges against any such member, and upon trial
and conviction thereof, the Lodge shall expel such member; but
it is understood that this resolution shall not be retroactive."
"We decide, therefore, first, that all Masons who were engaged
in the sale of intoxicating liquors as a regular business at the time
of the adoption of Edict No. 17 by this Grand Lodge and have
since continued uninterruptedly therein, may continue undisturbed

.

168

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

WISCONSIN.

1913.

The Sixty-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Wisconsin was opened in
Ample Form in the Masonic Building, corner of Jefferson and Oneida
streets, in the city of Milwaukee, at the hour of 2 o'clock p. m.,· on
Tuesday, June 10, 1913, A. L. 5913, Grand Master David B. Greene
in the chair.
,
The Grand Master, in his annual address, refers to the representative character of the gathering which he is addressing, being composed of men manifesting an unusual order of intelligence, influence
and ability.
·
He calls their attention to the fact that they are assembled on no
pleasure excursion nor idle junket, ' but to do the great work of
Masonry in its efforts to upbuild and bring to a degree of perfection
human society, of which the Grand Body of Masonry forms a part.
He comments upon the wonderful age in which we live, an age
of progress and science ; an age in 'Xhich the mere credentials of popularity and antiquity are not sufficient to secure standing and recognition, but an age that demands to know what is going forward now;
an age that scrutinizes politics, social customs, even religious ideas,
and because of these facts the Grand Master points out that the
Masonry of today, if it is to receive approval, must justify its existence
by pointing to current deeds and achievements.
He makes it clear that, in his judgment, no institution is better or
stronger than are the members who compose it, and hence, if Masonry
is to do good and be an instrument of usefulness in the world the
members that compose it must exemplify Masonic precepts.
'
It has often been affirmed, says he, that Masonry is entitled to a
position among the human institutions, simply because of its charity,
and if it were not for its system of benevolence the institution would
be as hollow as "sounding brass."
The Grand Master concedes the vital character of charity in connection with Masonry, but contends that Masonry has stood in all
times past, and stands today, for other principles of priceless ~alue to
humanity than those related to charity.
.
Masonry stands, he affirms, for the absolute equality of men, and
1t stands today for the intrinsic rights of the individual against the
encroachments of wealth or position; that it stands for the freedom of
thought, for the purity of the home, for the brotherhood of the
man, etc.
It is true that theoretically Masonry does stand for the absolute
equality of men. In other words, that all men in Masonry "meet upon

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the level," and that individual merit and worth are the true titles to
distinction, and that, in accordance with this doctrine, Masonic preferment and honor are open to all alike.
So far as American Mason.ry is concerned, we believe this is true,
and that neither wealth nor influence of any kind has material weight
in the question of honor or preferment in Masonry. This, however,
can scarcely be statetl of Masonry in other lands; and the Mother
Grand Lodge of England, which by many is considered the only true
source of legitimate Masonry, accords its highest positions of honor
and distinction to the members of the nobility only.
The position of Grand Master of Masons of England is always
filled by a Prince of the Royal Blood, and, regardless of what the theory
may be, any but princes are absolutely excluded . from the position of
Grand Master. This is true in England, and it is almost universally
true in all of the Grand Lodges in the political dependencies of Great
Britain. It is "Lord Carmichael,'' or "Lord Chalmsford," or "Lord
Plunkett," or "Lord Bishop of Perth," etc., who have, one may almost
say, always been Grand Masters of the Grand Lodges located in the
political dependencies of Great Britain, and these Lords are re-elect ed
year after year as Grand· Masters of their jurisdictions, and almost invariably they are political efficers of the Crown, usually the GovernorsGeneral of the provinces or countries to which they are sent from
England; and it would indeed be a manifestation of monumental assurance for any ordinary member of any of these Grand Lodges tu aspire
to the exalted position of Ruler of the Craft; hence when we say that
merit is the only recommendation to preferment, and that all Masons
stand upon the level, we should make at least some mental reservations.
The Grand Master adverts to a fact which, we believe, is generally true, that the bulk of the correspondence passing between Grand
Jurisdictions is in reference to matters touching the conferring of degrees, out of courtesy or by request.
If it were the custom to grant <limits to Entered Apprentices or
Fellowcrafts, as is the custom in most foreign jurisdictions, this mass
of correspondence between subordinate Lodges of different jurisdictfons in America, through their respective Grand Masters, would be
avoided.
The Grand Master refers to the invitation received by him from
the Grand Master of Indiana, asking him to attend a conference of
Grand Masters, to be held in the city of Indianapolis in March, 1913;
but because the purpose of the conference was not definitely stated, the
whole affair being nebulous and uncertain, so far as its purposes were
concerned, the Grand Master declined, very sensibly, in our OP.inion,
to accept the invitation.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Wisconsin is among the Grand Jurisdictions that apply the rule of
strict construction in the matter of physical qualifications, and among
the limited number of so-called decisions made by the Grand Master
was one to the effect that a candidate with a small part of the little
finger of the left hand gone was not eligible to th~ degrees.
Wisconsin is not so rigid in the matter of physical qualifications as
South Carolina, or Pennsylvania, or Texas, but Wisconsi~ s~rely is
rigid enough.
Four dispensations to form and open new Lodges w.ere granted
by the Grand Master within the year.
He reports the expenditure of $565 for charity purposes during
the year. He states that nothing has given him so many pleasurable
experiences as the disbursement of this munificent sum-he evidently
!relieves in the homeopathic doctrine of small doses.
We believe the Charity Committee disbursed something like $2,000
in addition to the amount distributed by the Grand Master, but in any
event the charitable demands did not produce sufficient strain on the
Grand Craft as to cause it to spring a leak.
The present membership of this Grand Jurisdiction exceeds 28,000,
and a substantial gain over the prkeding year was recorded.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the
newly formed Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
For many years past Grand Master Aldro Jenks has prepared the
Report on Foreign Correspondence and this important report this year
is as usual presented by him.
Nothing startling, he states in his introduction, has occurred in
the Masonic world in the preceding year, and he is impressed with the
conviction that the mission of Masonry is gradually becoming better
understood and that its influence is increasing year by year.
In the review before us, California, 1912, is fully and courteously
reviewed.
He refers to Brother Monroe's address as business like and voices
his approval of certain of the Grand Master's recommendations.
GEORGE B. WHEEU:R, elected Grand Master, Eau Claire.
WILLIAM W. P:ERRY, re-elected Grand Secretary, Milwaukee.

The Grand Master reports that the Masonic Order in Wyoming is
makini a strong and healthy growth. Four dispensations were issued
by him for the formation of new Lodges "in towns," as he states,
"whose present condition and future prospects insure permanency,
etc."
He reports the financial condition of the jurisdiction as "distinctly good."

170

WYOMING.

1912.
The Thirty-eighth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Wyoming, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, was held in Cheyenne,
Wyoqiing, September 4th and 5th 1 Grand Master Harold Banner presiding.

171

Concerning the Masonic Home project, which is under consideration in this jurisdiction, and for the creation of which a fund has been
in process of accumulation for several years past, the Grand Master
says:
"I am convinced that the time is coming, and will soon be here,
when many of our brethren in Wyoming will need our care and
attention for the brief span of life that lies before them, and to the
honor of Freemasonry and of common humanity I am thankful
to know that we are year by year increasing the fund that will
enable us to build and maintain a home wherein these deserving
old men may pass their declining years in self-respect and peace."
Among the decisions rendered by the Grand Master, we find the
following:
"Question-Can a man who is blind in one eye petition a Masonic
Lodge for membership?
"Answer-Yes. If his sight is good he is not physically disqualified."
We commend this decision to the consideration of Pennsylvania
and South Carolina and Texas, and a few other jurisdictions, where
the loss of even an eyelash would almost disqualify.
Four Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held for the
purpose of laying corner-stones of public buildings, dedicating Masonic
Temples, etc.
The Grand Master gives a list of "official visitations," which is
evidence of his activity in promoting the welfare of the Craft during
the year.
For the first time in his many years of service as Grand Secretary,
the Very Worshipful W. L. Kuykendall calls attention to the "tabulated
statement of the membership," as evidence of the very healthful and
satisfactory growth of the fraternity.
He particularly directs attention to the fact that one of the Lodges
in the city of Cheyenne has a membership exceeding 300, and that the
city itself has 543 active members. The total increase in membership
during the preceding year was 206, "being about, if not the greatest, in
the history of the Grand Lodge."

172

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The following "liquor resolution" was adopted :
"Resolved, That no Lodge within the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of the State of Wyoming, A. F. and A. M., and holding its
charter therefrom, shall receive a petition for any degree from or
confer any degree upon any person engaged in the business of
selling intoxicating liquors as a beverage, and that her:eafter no
member of any Lodge aforesaid shall engage in said business under
the penalty of expulsion from said Lodge."
·.
This is in line with similar legislation in twenty-five or thirty of
our American jurisdictions.
The Report on Correspondence is, as usual, by the Grand Secretary,
Brother W. L. Kuykendall.
California, 1911, is briefly and courteously reviewed.
Brother Kuykendall in his "Conclusion" sets forth his views in a
convincing manner of the necessity of holding to sound and correct
standards in the "recognition" of Grand Lodges, and insisting, if the
current of Craft Masonry is to be preserved in its purity and saved
from hopeless pollution, recognition should be refused to Grand
Lodges spuriously tracing their Qrigin to certain irregular so-called
Scottish Rite Supreme Councils, and otherwise.
He takes a strong and logical position against the right, which has
apparently been conceded by two or three American Grand Jurisdictions, of "individual recognition." That is, the right of a Mason belonging to one jurisdiction to recognize and treat as a Mason one
belonging to another jurisdiction, which latter jurisdiction has not
been recognized as regular, and entitled to recognition, by the Grand
Lodge of the jurisdiction to which the first Mason belongs, thereby
?i:-tually conceding to the individual Mason the right to exercise a
~ r lCtion belonging, legitimately and properly, to the Grand Lodge only.
Wu.LIAM PUGH, Grand Master, Evanston.
W. L. KuYXJ!NDALL, Grand Secretary, Saratoga.
Respectfully submitted,
:itpt. 8, 1913.

EDWARD H. HART,
Chairman of the Committee.

INDEX.
A
Accounts, Report of Committee on .... .. .. .. . . . .. ..... .. .... . .. .. 131
Address of David S. Hirshberg Accepting Temple .. · . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Of J ames A. Foshay at Memorial Services ...... .. . . .... .. .. . .. 172
Of George M. Perine Accepting Flag . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Of Charles L. Patton at Memorial Services .. ... ........ . ..... . 177
Of Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 54
Of Alonzo J. Monroe at Memorial Services .... . . . . . . ... .. . . . . . 181
Of Jacob Nieto Presenting Flag . . . .. . .. ...... . . . ... .. ..... . . . . 26
Of Samuel M. Shortridge at Dedication of Temple .. ........ . .. 39
Of William H. Crocker at Dedication of Temple . . ............ 30
Of William T . .Lucas Presenting Gavels ... . .... . .. . .... . .... . 52
Of William B. Faville Returning Working Tools .... . .. . .. . . . . 35
Of Dana R. W eller Returning Trowel. .... ..... . ... . . ...... ... 35
Advancement of an Invalid ... ... . . . ..... . . . .. .. . ... .. ... ... ... .. . 258
Alpha Lodge No. 431, Constituted . .. . . .... .... . .. .. ............. . 66
Alphabetical List of Lodges .......... . ...... . . . .............. .. .. 313
Alphabetical Location of Lodges . ....... . ......... . ........ . .. . . . . 322
Alverson, Mrs. Blake-Old Diploma Presented by . . . . .. . . . .. . .. .. . 155
Amador Lodge No. 65-Presentation of Picture of Old Temple by .. 158
Amendments to By-Laws Reported ...... ... . .. . .. ..... . ... . ...... 88
Amendments to Constitution ... .. . . . .".. ..... ......... . 78, 152, 160, 291
Anderson's Manual-Relative to Republication .. . . . . . ..... 186, 257, 267
Annual Report of Grand Lecturer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Of Grand Secretary . .. . ... . . . .... . . . . . . ... ...... . . .. .. · . . . . . 85
Of Grand Treasurer .. . .. . . ... . .. . . . . ... . . . . . . ... . .. · . · · . . ·. · 81
Of Trustees Masonic Homes ....... .. .. ... .. . . . . .. . .. . . ....... 102
Anti-saloon Amendment to Constitution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Appropriations by Finance Committee . . . ... . . .. ..... ..... .. .. . . . • .195
Aprons Made by Children at San Gabriel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Atkinson, Edmund M.-Presentation of Books by . . . . .. . .. ...... . .. 265

B
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for . . . . ... .. .... .. ...... .. · · . .. . · 195
Burials by . . . . .. .. . ... . . .. ... . ....... .. . .... . . .. 138, 141, 150, 154
Compacts of San Diego and San Jose . . . .. ... .. . . . . . . .... . . 88, 259

ii

INDEX.

Boards of Relief-Continued.
Reports of-Los Angeles ..................................... 139
Oakland ................................................. 147
Sacramento .............................................. 152
San Diego ....................................... : ...... 153
San Francisco . . ....... . ......... . ................. . . ,. .... 132 •
San Jose ................................................ 150
Burlingame Lodge No. 400-Extension of Jurisdiction .......... 73, 160
By-Laws-Report of Committee on ................................ 131

c
California Lodge No. 1-Petition of Ex-member for Restoration.90, 252
Complimentary Remarks of Grand Master Concerning. . . . . . . . . . 79
Candidate-Advancement of Invalid ................. . ............. 258
Presents to From Lodge Funds not Lawful. ................ 78, 162
Printing of Names of on Bulletins ......................... 76, 162
Card System for Visitors-Form of Card Proposed ................ 192
Report of Committee on ..... . ................ . ......... . ..... 191
Cavite Lodge No. 350-Withdrawal :ltrom Jurisdiction ............. 87
Charters Granted ................................................ 265
Report of Committee on .............. '. ....................... 208
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427, Constituted ........................... 66
Clandestine Masons-Arrest and Conviction of Degree Peddlers. . . . 73
Holding Communication with ................................. 166
Relative to Prosecutions of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Claremont Lodge .................................. . .. 66, 87, 208, 265
Credentials-Report of Committee on . ............................. 209
Crocker, William H.-Address at Dedication of Temple ....... . ..... 30
Report of for Temple Association .................. . .......... 158
Coleman, Edward-Memorial Services in Honor of ............ 102, 171 .
Committees-On Address of Grand Master. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
On By-Laws ... . ............................................... 81
On Charters .............................................. 81, 208
On Report of Grand Lecturer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
On Report of Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
On Report of Grand Treasurer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Standing-List of .. .. .. . ... . . . ....... . .. . ... . .. . .... .. ..... . . 270
Constitution, Amendments to .......... . ......... .. ... 78, 152, 160, 291
Consolidation of Lodges ......... . .. . .......................... 88, 258
Corona Lodge No. 324-Trial Commission Reversed ..... . ......... 255
Corregidor Lodge No. 386-Withdrawal from Jurisdiction .......... 87
Correspondence, Report of Committee on . ............. . ........... 81
Appendix-Report as to Recognition of Certain Grand Lodges .. 162

INDEX.

iii

D
Decisions of Grand Master ..... . ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 76
Dedication of the Temple ... . ... . .... . ... · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 23
Address of Dana R. Weller ........ . ... · .. . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 35
Of David S. Hirshberg ............ · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. .. 31
Of George M. Perine ........ . ..... · ... ····.·············· 28
Of Jacob Nieto . . . ................ · . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 26
Of Samuel M. Shortridge ....................... · ·. ···· .. 39
Of William B. Faville . ......... . ........ ···.········· · ···· 35
Of William H. Crocker ................. · · · .. · · .. · · · · · · · · · 30
Biblical History . ......................... · · · .. · · · · · · .. · · · .. .. 18
History of Temple ......... : ......... ··.···· · ················· 15
Invitation ... . · ·: · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
4~

3:7

~:~::sm:e E:;1~. ~-. -~~~~~~~:::::: :: : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : :~'. .. '. 7

Publication of Ceremonies Ordered ......... .. ·.············· . 198
Dim its Over Five Years Old, Relative to ... · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 193, ·~~
Dispensations Issued by Grand Master . .. . ···················· .88,
D es Minimum-Suggestion to Increase ...... · ······ · ··· ·· ·· .80, 156
u '
77 M2
Right to Collect Additional. ............. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ,

E
Election of Grand Lodge Officers ........ · ... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 268
Elective Officers-List of Since 1850 ...... ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .3~
Employment Bureau-Los Angeles ... . ... · .. . · · ······ · ·· · ···· · ... 141
San Diego ................ · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .153
San Francisco ...... . . . ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .132
Entered Apprentice-How May Petition for Remaining Degrees.··. 77
Endowment Fund Masonic Homes-Condition of· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ~
Exeter Lodge No. 424, Constituted ... · .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

F
Fairmount Lodge . . ..... . . .. .. · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .66, 87, 208, 265
Fees When Become Part of Lodge Revenues ............. · ... · .76, 162
Fideiity Lodge No. 120--Presentation of Fla~ by ...... · . · · · · · · · · · · · 26
Finance Committee (See Reports of Committees).
Financial Statements of Grand Secretary· . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 90, 272
Flag Presentation .. . .. .. .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 26
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361-Petition of Expelled Member for
2
Restoration . .. ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .90, 53
-Address
at
Memorial
Services
..............
.
·
·
.172
F oshay, J ames A ·
193
Song by ... · · ·· · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · ··· · · · ·· · · ··· · ·· · · · · ·· ·

iv

INDEX

G
Gavels Presented to Grand Lodge ... . . ..... . .. . ............. .'..... 52
Germania Lodge . .. .. ... . . . . . ... . . .. . .. . . . 67, 70, 73, 87, 208, 209, 26S
Grand Lecturer-Annual Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Committee on Report of . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Lodges Visited .......... . ..... . . . ...... . ...... ..... ..... .' ... 100
Report of Committee on ... .. .. . .. . ........... . . . ....... . ... ·.. 262
Salary of ....... .. ........ . . . . .. .. . ......... . .... . ...... 186, 195
Grand Lodge-Central Representative Body, Relative to .. . ... .. 70, 161
List of Representatives Present. ...... .. .. . . . .............. . .. 209
Officers, List of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SO
Officers Elected and Appointed . . ... .. ..... . ... ... .. .. . .. .. . . ~ 268
Officers Present at Opening .... . . . ... ..... . .. .. . .... .. .... . .. . 51
Grand Lodges-Italy . ... .. . . . .. .... ... .. . . . . ........ .. . . .. . . . 72, 164
N orth America-List of . ... .. ..... . .. . ... . .. .. ... .... ... ... .. 312
Philippine Islands ... .. . ............ . .......... . . .. ..... . . 69, 163
Porto Rico .......... . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . ..................... 72, 163
Recognition-Conditions Precedent to ......... . . .. . ... ... .... . 162
Grand Master-Address of . . ... . ... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Burling~me Lodge No. 400---Enlargement of Jurisdiction ... 73, 160
Circular From Massachusetts, Relative to ......... .. . . .. . . . 72, 161
Clandestine Masonry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Committee on Address of ......... .. . ... . .. . .... . .. ...... . . ... 81
Condition of the Craft. .. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Constitutional Amendments Recommended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Decisions . .' ...... . ..... . ... . . . .. . .. . ........ .. . . . .. ... .. . 76, 162
Dispensations Issued .. ... .. .. .......... .. . . . ... .... . . ... .. 88, 266
Donations From Lodges for Benefit of Other Lodges . . .. . . . . . . 73
Dues, Right to Collect Additional. .. . ............. ..... . . .. 77, 162
Suggestion to Raise Minimum ............ . ........ . . . . 80, 156
Entered Apprentice, How May Petition for Remaining Degrees. 77
Fees, When Become Part of Lodge Revenues ......... . ... . .. . . 76
Germania Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Grand · Lodge of Philippine Islands ........... . . .. .. . .. ... . 69, 163
Italy, Grand . Orient of .... . . ................ . . . ....... . . . . 72, 164
Lodges Constituted by. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Masonic Homes, Relative to. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Necrology .... .. .. .. . .... .. · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SS
New Lodges .. ... ........ ; ....... . ........ . ... .. ... ... ..... .. 66
Ordered Printed in Pamphlet Form .. .. . . ............... . ... . . 251
Porto Rico, Grand Lodge of. ............. . ........... . .. . 72, 163
Portraits of Past Grand Masters ................... . .... . .. 72, 196
Presents to Candidates From Lodge Funds ..... .. ... . ...... 78, 162

INDEX.

v

Grand Master-Continued.
Printing Nam es of Candidates m Bulletins . ......... . .. . .. . . . . 76
Public Ceremonials ...................... . . · .. . . · . · · · · · · · · · · · S9
Purchase of.Jewels From Social Fund not Lawful. .. : ....... 78, 162
Relief for Flood Sufferers .... . .. . .. . .... . ......... · · · · · · · · · · · · 69
Relief to Son, Sister or Mother of Mason .. . ............... 77, 162
Report of Committee on Address ............................. 156
Semi-Annual Reports of Secretaries, Relative to .. ... ... ... ... · 80
Trials, Conduct of. ·. .. ........ .. ... .... . . .... ..... . ..... . .. · · · 79
Visitations .... . . .. . . . : . ... . .. . .. ... ... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 59
Wardens, Time Within Which to Qualify .... ... ... .... . .. . . 78, 160
Washington Memorial Association . . . . ... .. .. .. . . .. . ...... . .... 71
Grand Officers-List of Since 1850 . . . . .. .. . . .. . . .... .. ... . ........ 308
Grand Secretary-Annual Report of .... ..... ... .. ... . .. . . . ..... · · · 85
Amendments to By-Laws Reported .. .. ... . .. . ..... . . . · · ... · ··· 88
Anti-Saloon Amendment .......... . ................ · · · .. · · · · · 87
Aprons, Made by Children at San Gabriel ....... .. ....... . . . . · · 86
Card Index of Members ........ . ....... .. ................. ·· · 86
Disbursements for the Year . . .. .. .. ..... . .......... ···· . ·· · · · · 90
Dispensations Issued .. . . . .... .... ..... . ..•. . .. .. . . . · · · · . · · · · · · 88
Financial Statements . .............. . . .. ............. . ..... 90, 272
La Grange Lodge No. 99, Consolidation with Yosemite No. 133 .. 88
Life Membership Cards . ....... .. . . .. . ....... . . .. .. .. · ... .. 86, 88
Lodges Formed During the Year . . .. . . .. ... . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. .. ·· 87
Lodges Now on the Roll ..... . .. . . .. .. .. ..... .... .... · · . · · .. .. 87
Lodges Withdrawn From Jurisdiction .. . .. .. . . . . .... . . .. .. ··· · 87
Membership in the Jurisdiction .. .. .......... .. ..... . ....... .. . 87
New Lodges Formed .. ......... . . . .. .. · ... · ·· · · · ·· · ·········· · 87
Order to Print Oration of Grand Orator and Address of Grand
Master ........ . ....... .. . . ...... .. ... . ................. · .251
Petitions for Restoration . . .... .. ..... . ... .. .. ........ · . . . · · · · · 90
Receipts for the Year . . . ... ...... .. .... .. . . .. ... .. .. . .. 96, 97, 272
Relief Fund, Condition of .. . . .. . ... . ..... . ... .. . ... · · · .. · · · ·, · 88
Removal of Office to New Temple ... .. .. . .. . . .. .. . ... . ....... 85
Report of Committee on Report. ... . .. . . .. . . . ... . . .. .. . .. . · · · · 156
To Furnish Cards Relative to Visitors . . . . . . . .. . .. ... ... ... .... 232
Trial Records Reported . .. .... . ... .. .. . .... . .. . .. · .·· · ·· · · · · · · 89
Warrants Drawn ........... . .. · . .. . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 90
Grand Treasurer-App_ointment of Ralph Lowe pro tern . ...... '. .. .. 54
Annual Report of. . ...... . ...... .. ....... . ... · ... · · · ····· ~ · ·· 81
Assets of Grand Lodge . . . . . .. .. . . .. . ..... .... · . . .. · · · · . · · · · · · · 82

vi

INDEX.
INDEX.

vii

H
M

Hammonton Lodge No. 433 ................................... 208, 265
H~rvey, Wm. ~hodes, Oration by ........... .. . .. .. .. . . . ... .. 102, 233
Hirshberg, David S.-Address Accepting Temple ........ .. .... .. .. 31
Holidays, Meetings May Be Held On ................ .. ..... .. .. 78, · 159
Holt, George E., Prosecution of. .... .............. . . . ............ . 74
Holtville Lodge No. 425, Constituted ................. . .. ....... ... 66

McCloud Lodge No. 430, Constituted .............................. 66
Manila Lodge No. 342, Withdrawal From Jurisdiction ..... ........ .. 87
Maricopa Lodge .. ........ . .... . .... . ................. 66, 87, 208, 265
Manual, Anderson's-Relative to Repub.l ication .. . ......... 186, 257, 267
Masonic Homes-Admissions at Decato During Year .......... .... 112
Annual Report of Trustees . . .. .. . . .. ... .. . ........ .. ....... . . 102
Appropriation for ......... ..... ....... ... ................... 196
Aprons Made by Children . .............. ............. ........ 86
Barber Shop at Decato ...... .... . .............. ............. . 114
Camping Trip for the Children ... ... ... .. .. .. ...... . .... ..... 115
Children Leaving, Providing Places for ....................... 115
Christmas Donations ............ ...... .. ... ........ . ........ 121
Conditions at San Gabriel. ................................... 114
Deaths During Year at Decato . .. . ....................... 112, 128
Departures .................... . ......... . ......... .. . . . 128, 130
Donations to Deco to . .. ... ................. ..... ............ . 119
To San Gabriel. .......... ...... ... ....• ...... .. . . . . ; 118, 120
Entertainments at Decato . . . .......... ... . .. .... . ....... .... . 114
At San Gabriel. .................... . .................... 116
Farm Production at Decoto .................................. 113
Financial Reports ......... . .................... 83, 109, 110, 111
Fuel Oil, Handling of . ....... .. . ... .......................... 104
Fund for Building Purposes . .·.. ................... ... .. ...... 104
Grand Master's Remarks Relative to ..... . ..... . . ... .. . ... .... 67
Laundry at Decato . . ... ....... .. ...... . . ... ..... ........... . . 113
Library at Decato . . . ....... ......... . . ... . .... . ... . ..... ..... 114
New Domitory at Decato .. ...... . .. ... . . . ................... . 104
Receipts for the Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Refrigerating Plant at Decoto .... .. .... . . .. . ... ....... ....... 113
Residents at Decoto . . . ... . .. ..... . . . . ............ . .. .. . . 112, 125
At San Gabriel. ... . .. .. .......... . .. . ...... . .. ... .... . . . 129
Report of Finance Committee on .............. .. ... . .. . .. 195, 196
Report of Grand Treasurer . ... .. . .... ... . . . .. ..... . . . . .... . . . 83
Of Secretary ........ ............. ................. .. .... 108
Of Superintendent .. ........... ................. .. . ... ... 112
Sale of San Gabriel Property, ~.elative to .. ... . ... ...... . Hl6, 165
Schooling Facilities at San Gabriel. .......................... 106
Steam Plant at Decato .......... .. ....... . .................. . 113
Visitations by Masons to San Gabriel. ... . ............. . . . ... 117
Water, Analysis of .. . . .. ..... .. . ... .. . ... . .... . ......... 103, 105
Development of at Decato . . ................. ... .. .... . ... 113
Masonic Relief Association of U. S. and Canada . .................. 72

I
Investigating Committees-Proposed Amendment Relative to ... 158, 256
Italy, Grand Orient of-Relative to Recognition of. ............. 72, 164

J
Janesville Lodge No. 232-Trial Reversed ..... ..... .......... . .... 170
Jurisprudence Committee (See Reports of Committees).

L
Lancaster Lodge ......................................... 67, 208, 265
L~ Grange Lodge No. 99-Consolidation with Yosemite No. 133 .. 88, 258
L'.brary Committee-Report of. .... ... ......... ......... ........... 265
L~fe Memberships-Lodges Providing for ....... .. .... .. ........... ss·
Liquor Law-Proposed Amendment to .......... .. 87, 158, 159, 193 256
Lodges, Alphabetical List" of. . ... ................................ : . 313
Annual Returns of . .... ........ . .................. ...... ...... 199
Chartered at This Communication .............................. 208
Constituted Last Year ......................................... 66
Formed During Year ......................................... 66
Germania Permitted to Work in German Language ....... . . . 209
Location of ... ..... ....... . .. ............. . .. ........ ......... 322
List of .. .. ..... . ..... .... ................ ......... ........... 292
List of Extinct ..... . .. .............. ..... . .. ... .. .. . ... . . .... 304
List of Representatives Present at Grand Lodge ..... . . ......... 209
Membership in 1913 .................... , .. .. .... .. ..... . ...... 87
Number of on the Roll .. .... .. ................ . ............... 87
Receipts From ... . . .. ... ..... , ........... . : ....... . ... 96, 97, 207
Returns of-Report of Committee .. .. ......... .. . . ... . . ... ..... 198
Withdrawn From the Jurisdiction ... ........ . ...... ." . ... .... .. 87
Lowe, Ralph, Appointed Grand Treasurer pro tern. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Lucas, William T.-Presentation of Gavels by .. . . .. .. . . . .... ....... 52

-

ix

INDEX.

INDEX.

Masonic Temple Association-Annual Report. .................... 158
Address of William H. Crocker. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Delivery of Temple to Stockholders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Purchase of Stock .................................. 186, 197, 252
Report of Finance Committee on ..................... 197; 252
Resolution to Purchase ................................... 186
Statement of Affairs to be Presented to Grand Lodge .......... 252
Massachusetts, Grand Lodge of-Relative to Circular of. ...... 72, 161
Membership in the Jurisdiction ................................ 87, 292
Memorial Pages ................................................ 281
Memorial Services .......................................... 102, 171
Midway Lodge No. 426, Constituted .............................. 66
Mizpah Lodge No. 81, Clandestine, and Its Demise ................. 75
Monroe, Alonzo }.-Address at Memorial Services ................. 181
Moses, William Schuyler-Memorial Services in Honor of. ... 102, 171

Refreshment Fund, What Fees Are Not Part of. .............. 76, 162
Relief Association of U. S. and Canada. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Relief for Flood Sufferers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Relief Fund, Condition of. ....................................... 88
Relief May Be Extended to Son of Mason .................... 77, 162
Relief-Request of Reading Lodge for Reimbursement. ....... 170, 197
Reports of Committees-Accounts ................................ 131
By-Laws .................................................... 131
Card System for Visitors .................................... 191
Credentials .................... , ......................... 51, 209
Finance-Appropriations for Boards of Relief ................. 195
For Grand Master's Trip to Honolulu ................ 197
For Portraits Past Grand Masters .................... 196
For Salaries ........................................ 195
Finances of Masonic Homes .............................. 195
Grand Treasurer's Report ................................ 81
Portrait of Grand Master Filmer ........... . ............. 197
Portraits of Past Grand Masters .......................... 196
Purchase of Masonic Temple Stock ................... 197, 252
On Grand Lecturer's Report ................................ 262
On Grand Master's Address ................................. 156
On Grand Secretary's Report ................................ 156
Grievances-General Omnibus Report. ........................ 165
Petition for Restoration From Ex-M~mber California
Lodge No. 1-Denied ................................ 252
Petition for Restoration From Ex-Member Fort Bragg
Lodge No. 361-Denied .............................. 253
Relative to Publication of Opinions ................... 187, 256
Trials-In Berkeley Lodge No. 363-Reversed ............. 189
In Charter Rock Lodge No. 410-Reversed ........... 187
In Coalinga Lodge No. 387 ........................... 166
In Corona Lodge No. 324-Reversed .................. 255
In Curtis Lodge No. 140 ............................. 166
In· Fidelity Lodge No. 120 ........................... 166
In Guadalupe Lodge No. 237 ......................... 166
In Janesville Lodge No. 232-Remanded .............. lt9
In McKinley Lodge No. 347 .......................... 166
In Mizpah Lodge No. 378 ............................. 166
In Na val Lodge No: 87 ........................... · · .166
In Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 .......................... 166
In Paso Robles Lodge No. 286 ....................... 166
In Reading Lodge No. 254 ............................ 165
In Richmond Lodge No. 375 ......................... 166

viii

N
Nieto, Jacob-Address of. ....................................... 26

0
Officers of Grand Lodge, List of. ............................. SO, 268
Oration by Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Grand Orator ............... 102, 233
Ordered Printed in Pamphlet Form .......................... 251
Oregon, Grand Lodge of-Relative to National Conference ..... 70, 161
Orme, Henry Sayre-Memorial Services in Honor of. ........102, 171

p
Past Grand Masters-Portraits of. ............................ 72, 196
Patton, Charles L.-Address at Memorial Services ................. 177
Pay of Members-Report of Committee on ........................ 259
Perine, George M.-Acceptance of Flag. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Philippine Islands-Grand Lodge of ........................... 69, 163
Lodges Coip.posing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Recognition of .............................................. 163
Pittsburg Lodge No. 429, Constituted. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Porto Rico, Grand Lodge of. .................................. 72, 163
Portraits of Past Grand Masters .............................. 72, 196
Printing Names of Candidates on Circulars .................... 76, 162

R
Reading Lodge No. 254-Request for Reimbursement. ......... 170, 197
Receipts of Grand Lodge ......................................... 272
Recognition of Grand Lodges-Conditions Precedent to ............ 162

-

INDEX.

x

xi

INDEX.

Grievances-Trials-Continued.
In Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 ... .. .. .... .. . . ... . ... . . 166
In Starr King Lodge No. 344 ......... ... . . .. ... ... .. i66
In Sunset Lodge No. 352 ... . ... . ... .................. 166
In Tehama Lodge No. 3 ............... ... ........... 165
In Vesper Lodge No. 84 ... . .. ·. .'... . .... . ...... . . . . . . 165
Jurisprudence-Advancement of An Invalid .. . ............ . ... 258
Anderson's Manual ... ... ....... .... ... ...... . . 186, 257, 267
Burlingame Lodge No. 400-Extension of Jurisdiction . . ... 160
Consolidation of LaGrange Lodge and Yosemite Lodge . . .. 258
Decisions of Grand Master . ... . ... .. ...... .. ........ .. ... 162
Dimits Over Five Years Old .... . .................... . ... 257
Dispensations Issued by Grand Master .. .. . .............. 266
Holidays, Meetings on . ... . . ... . . .. ........ . ..... .. . ..... 159
Investigating Committees, Relative to . . . . ...... . ... .. . 158, 256
Liquor Resolution ... .. .. ... .... . ...... . ............ 193, 256
Oregon, Grand Lodge of-Relative to Gen'!. Conference.70, 161
Proposed Amendment to Liquor Law . . .... ... .... . . .. .. . 193
Publishing Opinions of Grievance Committee . ........ ... .. 256
Relative to Circular of Makachusetts Grand Lodge . ... . .. 161
Wardens, Time Within Which to Qualify .... .. . . ... . .. 78, 160
Library .. .. ........ . ....... . ... ..... . . ..... . . .... ....... .. .. 265
Pay of Members .......................................... . . 259
Returns of Lodges, Report of. .. ..... . . . .. .. .. . .............. 198
Reports of Secretaries-Semi-annual, Omission to Render . . . . ... .. 80
Resolutions-Anderson's Manual .......... . .. .. .... ... .. 186, 257, 267
Di mits Over Five Years Old, Relative to ... . . .. ... . .•..... 193, 267
Liquor Law ...... . .... . . . . .. . ...... . .. .. . . .. .... ....... 193, 256
Purchase of Masonic Temple · Stock .. .. ... . . ...... . .. 186, 197, 252
Reimbursement of Reading Lodge No. 254 ........ .. ...... 170, 197
Publication of Opinions of Grievance Committee ... . .... . 187, 256
Salary of Grand .Lecturer ................. . ...... . ..... . 186, 195
Visitors, Notice of Visitation to Lodges ......... . ....... . .... 232
Restoration From Ex-Member CaEfornia Lodge No. I-Denied ... 252
From Ex-Member Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361-Denied . . .... . . 253
Returns of Lodges . ... . . ........ .. ..... .. ....... ... ... ... ... . .. . . 199
Roseville Lodge No. 432, Constituted .............................. 66

s
Salary of Grand Lecturer . ..... . .......... ... ... . .... . . . ... . . 186, 195
Salaries of Grand Officers ....... ... ..... ... ........ . . ..... ... ... 195
San Dimas Lodge No. 428, Constituted .... . . .............. . .. . ... 66
Sherman, Edwin A.-Prayers at Dedication of Temple ...... 34, 37, 45

Shortridge, Samuel M.-Address at Dedication of Temple . . . .. . ... 39
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296--Trial Record Affirmed ....... . ...... . 168
Standard Lodge, Dispensation for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Standing Committees, List of and Members . ..... . . .. .... . .. ...... 270
Sullivan, Judge John }.-Remarks on Sentencing a Degree Peddler . 75

T
Temple, Dedication of (See Dedication of Temple) .
Picture of Old Presented .. . .... .. . ... . . . .. . . .. . . . ... . ... . .... 158
Trials-Remarks of Grand Master Concerning Conduct of .... . ... . 79
Trial Records (See also Reports of Grievance Committee) . . . . . . . . . 89
Trowel-Presentation of by Dana R. Weller ...... . ..... .. . .. ... . . 35
Tyrian Lodge ... .. .. .... . .. .. . ...... .. .. .. . . .. . .. ... . 67, 87, 208, 265

v
Visitors-Card System for-Report of Committee on ..... . .. .. .... 191
Notice of to Lodges ... . ..... . .... .. . .. .. . . ... . .... ... . . . . .... 232

w
Wardens-Must Qualify Within Sixty Days After Election .. .. 78, 160
Warrants Drawn Against Grand Treasurer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Washington Memorial Association . . . ...... . ..... .. . ... ... ... . .... 71
Waste, William H.-Presentation of Old Diploma by . ... ... .. .. .... 155
Weller, Dana R.-Presentation of Trowel by ......... ... .... . . . . . 35

y
York Lodge N o. 423, Constituted . ..... ..... .... . . . . . , . . .. ..... . . . 66
Yosemite Lodge No. 133-Consolidation W ith La Grange Lodge
No. 99 .. ... . . .... ... . .. .. . . . . .. .. ... ...... . . .... .... .... 88, 258

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California ·
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 591 3

M. •• W. •. JoHN

D. MuRPHEY................-......................................Grand Master

w:. BENJAMIN F. BL!DSOE...........- ...................Deputy Grand Master
R.". w:. ALBERT G. Bt111NETT....................................Senior Grand Warden
R.". w:. FRANCIS V. KE!sLING...................................Junior Grand Warden
v:. w:. WILLIAM P . FIL:Ml!R............................................Grand Treasurer
R.".

v. ·. W. •• JouN WHICBl!Jl........................................................Grand Secretary
v. ·. W. ·.THOMAS J. BAxtR....................................................Grand Lecturer

v. ·. R. •• L:£MUEL L. TtsT....................................,...................Grand Chaplain
w.·. WILLIAM H. WASTE.............._......................................Grand Orator
w. ·.HARRY S . ]oBNSON ................................Assistant Grand Secretary
w.·. WILLIAM K!TTNU....................................................Grand Marshal
w.·. JOSHUA D. Tucxi;:a....................................Grand Standard Bearer

w:.LEO V. YouNGWORTB ....................................Grand Sword Bearer

w.·. EDWIN A. SHERMAN....................................~..Grand Bible Bearer
w:. BEN Li;:v1 ........................................................Senior Grand Deacon
w:. FR:£D B. WooD...............................................Juni<W Grand Deacon
w.·. ROBIE E . DILL..............................................Senior Grand Steward
w:. BENJ. B. Tunu:.......................................Junior Grand Steward '
w.·. TB:£01JOR:£ J. MILLIK:£N......o................................. Grand Pursuiva11t
w.·. SA1\W:£L D. MAYJ!R..................................................Grand Organist
w:. Gi;:oRG:£ P. ADAMS............................................................Gra11d Tyler
.

1

ROSTER
OF THE

SUBORDINATE LODGES
UNDER THB JURISDICTION OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JULY 31, A. L 5913
WITH OFFICERS FOR 5914

CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 1.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Thursday in each month.
• Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

William Hasting Harrelson, Ma'Ster, Raimon Francis Conlisk, S. 'Deacon,
1408 Chronicle Bldg.
Harris DeHaven Connick, !. Deacon,
Harry Lincoln Dewey, S. Warden, Thomas Rolph, Mar'Shal,
Jesse Meigs Whited, Jun. Warden, Duncan Angus McLeod, Steward,
August Hermann Muller, Trea'S.,
Donald McLaren, Steward,
Edward Peabody, Secretary,
Samuel David Mayer, Organist,
Masonic Temple.
George Perrin Adams, Tyler.

Abbott, William Martin
Adair, Charles James
Adams, Charles Hitchcock
Adams, Edward Stonehill
Adams, George Perrin
Adams, Henry Willis
Adams, Wm. Rooney
Ahman, Amandue
Alderson, Harry Everett
Alexander, Archibald Moore
Alexander, William Stanley
Allen, Harry Beckwith

MEMBERS:
Allison, Edward Ralston
Ames, George Elias
Archer, Albert Sayres
Archer, James, Jr.
Ascroft, Henry, P . M.
AtwoGd, Joseph Conrad
Avery, William Henry
Babcock, John Pease
Backman, Gotthard Sigismund
Baker, Charles Henry
Baldwin, Frederick Albert
Bannister, Alfred

4

ROSTER

Barbier, Howard Frederic
Baumeister, Bernhardt Hermann
Beanston, George Alexander
Beanston, Wa1laee Hall
Beeker, Julius Henry
Becsey, Roland
Bengtson, John
Bennett, George Edward
Bennet, William Henry
Biddle, Julian Hiester
Binning, Charles
Birdsall, Ernest Stratton
Birmingham, :Mark
Black, Howard
Black, Orlow
Blake, Alfred Edward
Blakiston, Duncan George
Bliss, Walter Danforth
Blossom, Henry Eckford
Boearde, George Uriah
Boggs, Angus Gordon
Bonner, Andrew
Boobar, James Guptill
Boole, Fred Warren
Bradbury, Alfred William
Bragg, Robert
Breuer, Henry Joseph
Brink, Charles Henry
Brittingham, Elisha Franklin
Brown, Albert Webster
Brown, Andrew Washington
Brown, Charles Underwood
Brown, Herbert Flint
Brown, Joseph Anthony
Brown, Roland Gair
Brown, William Anderson
Buckbee, Samuel Griggs
Burden, Wilson
Burnet, Henry :Melnott
Burns, Robert, Jr.
Burnside, Frank
Busse, Frank Adolf
Cameron, Edgar Malcolm
Campbell, George French
Campbell, Leonard Littleton

Cannell,_ Samuel Bartley
Carles," Honvre Romolo
Carson, George Ryckman
Caswell, :Marion F.
Caverly, LeRoy Eugene
Chadwick, George Charles
Chamberlin, William Daniel
Chapman, Albert Jules
Chaquette, Camille Adams
Chazel, Frank August
Christenson, Edwin Axel
Clark, Edward Joseph
Clifton, Horace Bradford
Cline, Cecil Cephas
Cline, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Clough, Theodore Neilson
Cobb, William Lewis
Cochell, John Thomas
Coffee, Ernest Haquette
Cogswell, James Lafayette, P. M.
Cole, Perey John
Coles, Charles Petley
Colter, Arthur Newton
Combs, Jerome Bert
Comstock, John Felt Osgood
Conlisk, Charles William
Conlisk, R.aimon Francis
-Connick, Harris DeHaven
Cooke, Charles Alden
Coppage, John Clark
Corbus, Adam William
Corbus, John Parker
Cowell, John Leslie
Cox, Frank Van Ness
Coxhead, Almerie W. SylvestP.r
Craig, Homer Theodore
Crim, William Henry
Crocker, William, P. M.
Crocker, William Henry
Crothers, George Edward
Crothers, Thomas Graham
Cummings, Arthur Burgess
Cummings, Walter Bailey
Cunningham, Arthur George
Cunningham, John Francis

ROSTER
Curti, Felipe Pena
Edwards, '.I!Jlomas Miller
Effinger, John Heney __
Cushing, Frank Worthy, P. M.
Daggett, John Randolph
Eisenmann, Philip Joseph
Dahler, HJ'rry Guthorn
Eitel, Edward :Ev.e rett.
Dalton, Franklin
Elliott, Albert Gl11dstone
lJalton, Thomas Benton
Elwert, Charles- Philip .
Dam, Francis Herbert
Engemann, Hermann Louis
Davis, Charles Frederick
Erlin, George Edwin
Davis, Harold Edgeworth
Erlin, Frank William
Davis, U:a.rey Francis
Etting, William August
DeConinek, Frank Camille
Everett, Oliver
Deering, Thomas Patrick
Everett, Wallace Washburn
Degen, Walter
Ewart, David Fraser
Detrick, Henry Lyster
Farnsworth, Millard Allen
Dewey, Harry Lincoln
Farley, Walter Hawthorne
Dewey, William Pierce
Farquharson, David
Dietterle, Benj. Garratt
Faulkner, Charles Alfred
Dietterle, George, P. M.
Faville, William Baker
Dietterle, Howard Lee
Ferguson, Tilghman Howard
Dietterle, Raymond Lloyd
Feusier, Clarence Louis
Dingwall, George Isabel
Fiege, Arthur Conrad
Dixon, John Finck, Julius
Doble, William Ashton
Firth, Joseph .Kirk.
Dobler, Charles
Fish, Edward Nye
Dohrmann, William Charles
Fisher, W. Charles Henry
Dorey, Gilbert
Flagg, William Henry
Dom, Diademus Socrates
Fletcher, Thomas
Flood, Arthur :Morris
Dougherty, Charles :Medley, P. M.
Dow, Wallace Hanscom
Forbes, William Henry
Downing, Paul Milton, P. M.
Foster, Fred 'k. Townsend
Drake, Frank Babbitt
Foy, Charles William
Drake, Robert Morris
Frank, John
Duffie, Christopher Wilson
Franklin, Geo. Chas. Henry
Duncanson, Dugald Henry
Fraser, Hugh
Duncanson, William
Fredericks, George
Dunker, John Adolph
Furbush, William Morey
Dunn, James
Gale, Frank Walter
Earl, Sumner Fremont
Gantner, John Oscar
Easton, Daniel Elisha Foote, P. M. Gardner, Samuel James
Garibaldi, Stephen Joseph
Easton, Thomas Chalmers, Jr.
Eastwood, Joseph
Gawne, Walter Whitfield
Gehret, Frederick
Eckart, William Roberts
Geilfuss, Carl
Eddy, Richard A.
Edwards, Frederick Jay
. Gere, George Grant, P. M.
Edwards, Gordon William
Gibson, James Spaulding

5

6

ROSTER

Gilbert, John Baptiste, Jr.
Gilbert, Louis Julius
Gillson, Joh:n.
Givens, Jamee David
Glass, Louie, P. M.
Gleason, George Ruggles
Glenn, Wilfred Garfield
Golcher, Henry Coughlin
Gould, Lewie Allen
Graff, Ulrich
Graham, Gerald Oakeley
Grau, Louie Henry
Green, Charles Ernest
Green, Robert Gustave
Greenhood, Hugo Oscar
Grier, Arthur Jay
Griffith, John Wesley
Grimes, Everett Mason
Grimes, Everett Tubbs
Haake, Henry Anton
Hagmaier, Daniel Peter
Haight, Robert Fletcher
· Hall, Norman Freeman
Hall, Robert
Halliday, George Webster
Halsey, Theodore Vail
Hamilton, Hiram Milton
Hammer, William Hollingsworth
Hand, William Mulford
Hanke, Charles H enry, Jr.
Hannigan, Percy Talbot
Hanesen, Olaf J orgen
Harrelson, William Hasting
Harrison, Alvin Benjamin
Harrison, Samuel Ingleby
Hart, Edward Henry, Jr.
Hartranft, William Grant
H aseltine, Charles Woodward
Hassler, William Charles, P. M.
Haven, Charles Dwight
Heald, Clarence Edward
Heald, Edward Payson
Hedstrom, Bernard
H elen, Richard
H elm, William James

Helman, Gilbert Wayne
HenderBOD, Thomas Louden
Henion, Asa
Henry, George Jackson, Jr.
Herrington, Charles Howell
Heuer, George Frederick
Heyer, William Christopher
Heywood, William Brewer
Hickei, Oscar Herbert
Hille, Ernest Herbert, P. M.
Hilton, Joseph Henry
Hinton, Arthur William
Hoffman, Henry Nathaniel
Hoffman, John
Hogan, Howard Whittelsey
Hoitt, Ralph Howland
Holt, Cyril Edward
Hood, George
Hopkins, Math<>w Leander
iEiosmer, Harrie Bordley
Houghton, Robert Otis
Howard, Horace Pember
Howard, Horace Zerah
Howard, Joseph Louie
Howe, Louis Philippe
Hufechmidt, George Frederick
Hunt, John Hosford
Hunt, William Black
Hunter, Robert Aitchison
Itsell, Andrew Jackson
Itsell, William Folkee
Jacoby, Julius Herman
J a cquelin, Harry Laroche
James, Frank
Jenkins, Horace Greeley
Jenner, Charles Kirkham
Jessup, John DeLamater
Johnson, E r nest Lincoln L.
Johnson, Mathias
Johnson, Roosevelt
Johnson, Walter Perry
Johnston, Charles Robert
Jones, Edward Kirkland
Jones, Fred Richard
Kahles, Fra nk

BOSTER

MacRorie, Daniel
Keech, Theodore David
Madden, Wilkes CDyler
Keech, Willis Howard
Keesling, Francis Valentine, P. M. Magee, Joseph Francie
Malmgren, Niles Peter
Keil, George Frederic
Marshutz, Leon Charles
Kelso, John
Martell, Harry Gaylord
Kemp, John Henry
Martin, James Christopher
Kerrell, Albert George Daw
Martin, Robert Samuel
Kimble, LiBton
MaTVin, Frank William
King, Joseph Libbey
Marvin, HaTVey Arrington, P. M.
King, William Garfield
M.aTVin, Harvey LeFevre
Kingsbury, George William
Marye, George Thomae
Kinne, Charles Mason
Matheson, Duncan
Kinse,<, Cha:rles Caswell
Mathew•, George Sumner
· ·' '
Kirk, Robert
Matthews, Arthur Wellington
Kirkpatrick, Thomae
Mayer, Samuel David
Kittredge, Ralph Bell
Maynard, James, Jr.
Klein, John Edward
Maynard, Ralph Samuel
Kline, James J oeeph
Mayo, Henry Browne
Knight, Edward Dexter
Mccollister, William Moree
Knight , George Alexander
Mccurdy, Daniel
Knighton, Robert
McFarlane, Peter Dunn ·
Koenig, Frank
McKay, James Finlay
Koenig, Gustav William
McLaren, Donald
Kreeger, Charles Strouse
McLean, Neil A.
Kuehn, George Washington
McLeod, Duncan Angus
Kuehn, Victor August
McMillan, Robert, P. M.Lacey, Edgar Robinson
McNaught, John
L aGrange, Millard Fillmore
McWilliams, John Adam
La mson, Joseph Sterry
Meigs, Anson Woodman·
Landers, John
Mersing, George Julius Martin
Landgrebe, Robert George
Merton, Lewis Burrell
Latham, Wm. Kenley
Mills, Frederick Clinton
Lathrop, Charles Leonard
Mills, William Lucas Bisset
Lauffer, Charles
Mitchell, John Samuel
Lee, John, Jr.
Morin, Her cule Cutler
Leinhardt, John
Moore, Andrew
Libby, Warren Thompson
Moore, Charles Cadwell
Likens, James William
Moore, Charles Parker
. Long, Seely Frederick
Moore, Harry Staats
Low, Joseph Coolidge
Moore, Robert S.
Low, Thomas Griffin
Moore, Willia m Lewis
Lowe, L eon Percival
Moormann, J ulius Christesen
Lutz, Charles Edward
Morehouse, George Wilbur
Lyons, James Henry
Morey, Ellwood Perry
Mackay, Walter Shirlaw

7

'8

'ROSTER

Morrison, William Hamilton
Morton, Julius Wetzlar ·
Moulin, Gabriel
Muller, Augwlt Herrmann
Munch, Robert
Murdock, George Leonard
Murgatroyd, Ben
Murschel, Albert
Myers, John Edward
Nii.gel, Louis Mortimer
Neal, Charles Sanders
Nelson, Elmer Ellsworth
Nelson, James Brown
Netherland, Benjamin Franklin
Newell, William Harold, Jr.
Newlands, John Cassell
Newman, George Howard
Newton, Geo'rge Francis
Nickerson, Frank William
Niggle, John George
Noble, Edward Bonneau
Norstrom, Lewis Charles
Olsen, William
Ormond, John Allyn
Ouer, Frederick Frank
Owens, Henry Morgan, P. M
Palmer, Brooks
Parker, Harvey Drury
Parr, Fred Depler
Parr, John Dallas
Patton, Charles Lewi11, P. G. M.
Payne, George Lingard
Peabody, Edward, P. M.
Peabody, Edward William, P. M.
Pendergast, James Albert
Perkins, Thomas Allen
Perrin, Howard Elmer
Peters, James Frank
Pfaeffie, Robert William
Phelps, Charles David
Phillips, William Rippard
Plevin, James Ralph
Plincz, John Karol
Plum, Charles Mortimer, P. M.
Plummer, Alvin

Porter, Abel Willard
Powers, Frank H. ·
Prien, Henry Fred John
,. · ·
Putnam, Victor Eugene
Queisser, Alexander
Ralph, Burlington K.
Ramsdell, Harry Vinton
Ramsdell, Leland Stanfor'l
Rasmussen, Peter
Rasor, David 'Walter
Redding, Frederick Grant
Reid, James William
Reid, Merritt Jonathan
Reinegar, Earl Bradfield
Renner, George •
Richardson, Ernest James
Richardson, George Horatio
Rickon, Frederic J. Henry, P. M.
Ridley, Arthur Ernest Brooke
Riess, John William
Robb, Frank
Robison, Ansel Cobb
Robison, Merritt David
Roes, John• Edward Albert
Roller, Charles August
Rolls, John Percy
Rolph, Clarence Athol
Rolph, James, Jr.
Rolph, Joseph William
Rolph, Thomas
Ross, Donald
Rountree, Richard Henry
Rulofson, Alfred Currie
Runyon, Albert James
Russell, Alexander
Ryan, Michael
Schaldach, Henry Bruno
Scheide, William Cornell
Schiegner, Frederick Nelson
Schlott, Ernest Frederick
Schmidt; Louis
Schmitz, John William
Schreiber, Harry William
Scott, Harry Sweet
Scott, Walter Amos, P. M.

ROSTER
Scovel, George Scofield
Scovel, James. Dwight
Searle, James John
Searles, De~nis
Searles, Hiram Rex
Sewall, Edward Cecil
Shannon, Guy Stuart
Sharp, Arthur Maxwell
Sim, Walter Berry
Simmons, Haydn Mozart
Sims, James Coker
.Sinn, John George
Slack, Charles William
Slater, John Charles
Slocum, Clinton Dodge
Smith, Charles Henry
Smith, Frank
Smith, Harry Gartliner
.Smith, James D.
Smith, Lester Baylies
Smith, Selden Cornelius
Smith, William Hervey
Smith, William Jacob
Spiller, George Weldon
Stadtfeld, William Benedict
Stallman, Charles Christian
Stange, Walter John ·
Starbird, Albion Wilson
Steers, Edward Everett
Stenerson, Hamilton Goodman
Stevens, William Emer~on
Stock, Edward .R ichard
Stoutenburgh, Edgar Charles
Stocker, Leslie Wrightson
Swantz, Joseph Florance
Swasey, Edgar Marshall
Swears, William Bernard
Swinerton, William Arthur
Sykes, James Bell
Taylor, Albert Miles
Taylor, Thomas Hardin
Thomas, Edward J.
Thomas, Ellis Shepherd
Thompson, Frederick William
Tisdale, Robert Francis

Titchworth, Casper
Tolmie, Robert Currie
Tompkins, M.inthorne Mortimer
Towne, Arthur Gowing
Townsend, George Elliot
Traphagen, William Arthur
Trowbridge, Chas. Christopher
Tucker, Albert Nion
Turner, Alfred Joseph
Umbsen, Henry Philip, P. M.
Unger, Milton Edwin
Upham, Benjamin Prince
Upham, Isaac Oliver
Van Bergen, Henry
Vanderlip, Harry Franklin
Van Houten, Harry Wilfred
Van Luven, Hermon
Varian, Henry
Vaughan, Hiram G.
Vogel, Edward John
Von Staden, George
Von Tillow, Ward Wright
Von Voorhies, Ruel Williard
Wadsworth, Charles Curtiss
Walbey, Bertie Robert Cecil
Walker, Isaac Cushman
Walker, James Greig
Walker. Shirley Cyrus
Walsh, Vincent Sanders
Wapple, Albert Michael
Watters, James Arthur
Weeks, John Allard, Jr.
Weil, John Perez
Wells, George Prescott
Wentz, John Joseph
Wentz, Walter Bixter
Wernse, Harry Walter
West, Robert Bachman
West, Thomas Christopher
Westerfeld, Otto Ferdinand
Wheelan, l!'airfax Henry
White, Ralston Lovell
Whited, Jesse Meigs
Whitely, Henry Mallard
Whitney, John Blackett

9

10

ROSTER

Whittle, Henry
Wiborn, J. Auburn
Wilk~, Andrew
Wilkie, Francis Alexander
Wilkins, James Malcolm
Willcox, Raymond Hawkins, P. J/I.
Williams, Harry Alston
Williams, William Robert
Williams, Winfield Scott
Willman, Alexander, P. M.
Wirtner, John Jacob
Wisewell, Charles Arthur

Hunt, Richard Hosford

Witham, Heber William
Walters, Henry Joseph
Wright, Alvin Henri
Wright, Charles William
Wright, Cyrus Smith
Yates, William Frederick
Young, Edwin Curtis, P. M.
Young, Frank Cogswell
Young, George Herbert
Young, Shirley Trever
Youngberg, Charles John
Zech, William Frank

ROSTi;R
MEMBERS:

'
-588

WITHDRAWN:
Muller, Adolphe
Wilson, William Archibald

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Jeffers, Milo Si'dney
DIED:

Crocker, Henry Joseph
Dewey, Daniel L .
Dowling, Thoma~ Henry
Franklin, Max John
Fulcher, Charles Nelson
Hagmaier, Charles
Huested, Orson Justus·
Hubbard, Henry Calvin

Kohler, Henry
Merrill, John Francis
Milling, William
Notewate, Edward Washington
Smith, Francis
Unger, Adolph
Will, Frederick Adolph
Winants, Newell

WESTERN STAR LODGE, No. 2.
Shasta., Shasta. County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceili.D~ Full Mono
OFFICERS:
· Richard Bruce Ross, Master,
Abraham Lincoln Parsons, Chaplain,
Shasta, Cal.
Grant Alfred Schroter, Sen. Deacon,
Ralph Ingram, Senior Warden,
Clarence George Green, ! . Deacon,
Guy Elmer Hansen, Junior Warden, Alexander Patterson, Marsha.I,
Lloyd Lee· Carter, Treasurer,
Geo rge William Sevenman, Steward,
Briceland Cooper Blair, Secretary,
Orrin Carson, Steward,
Shasta, Cal.
William Alexander Boswell, Tyler.

..

Anger, Robert Nelson
Balch, John Adrian
Blair, Briceland Cooper, P. M.
Boswell, William Alex.
Burns, Charles James
Buscombe, William Henry
Bush, Franklin William
Bystle, Adolph, P. M.
Carson, Orrin
Carter, Lloyd Lee
Cole, Willard Leonard
Cummins, Harle Orin
Cushing, Horatio Weska
Davidson, Harry
Davis, George Miller
Denton, Frank
Eaton, Elvis Newton
Failing, Otto Claude
Flynn, Francis
Forbes, William Burton
French, John Alexander
Gibson, Charles Francis
Graham, Albert
Grant, Edgar McLean
Grimshaw, Frederick Clarence
Hart, Frederick Ernest
Hightower, John Charles
Hoyle, John Elkanah
Hoyle, Reuben
Hudson, Harry Charles
Hunt, Thatcher Rodney
Ingram, Ralph, P. M.
Jahde, William
Johnson, Andrew
Josee, Charles Frederick
Kl.'rr, Francis Emmett
Lamus, Nelson Edward, P. M.
Largan, William
Leatch, Allen Mebius
Limbaugh, Nathanial
Martin, William Stanley
Marx, Frederick L.
Manning, Lemuel Sargent

Minderman, John Herman
Moulter, Frank Erastus
Moore, Foreat
McDonald, Bernru:d
McLennan, Donald Fraser
Mills, Edward Jamee
Murrish, Harry T.
Newman, Michael Rous&
Nichols, Thomas William
Norton, Charles
Nightwine, Martin Elver
Northcutt, Finley
Obradovich, Samuel Milo
Patterson, Alexander, P. M.
Parsons, Abraham Lincoln
Rathbun, Ross Burton
Reagan, James
Recardo, John D.
Richardson, James Lee, P. M.
Riley, Robert Edwin
Reel, Louis
Reinhaus, Gustave
Rosenberg, Samuel
Rosevear, Joseph James
Ross, Richard Bruce
Ross, Alfred Marshall
Rountree, Henry Searle
Satterlee, Frank Peck, P. M.
Schielke, James W.
Shuffelton, Hugh Hall
Seineke, Frank George
Schroter, Grant Alfred, P. M.
Sevenman, George William
Skendle, Charles Joseph
Strode, George Crone
Strode, John Sale
Swanson, John August
Speak, William AbrahRm, P. M .
Shaw, Joseph James
Terry, John Jesse
Traver11, James Arthur
Tillman, August
Tucker, James Edward

1J

12

ROSTER

Weigel, Clifford R.
Weil, Joseph, P. M.
Wood, Beverly Walter
White, John Wesley

ROSTER

Weinstrom, John Oscar
Y elland, Edward
Young, Edward L.
-!15

WITHDRAWN:
Hodgkin, William Moore ·

Bossyns, John

Tease, Chester James
DIED:
Sweeny, Edward

TEHAMA LODGE, No. 3.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry Harrison McClain, Master, Charles Ernest ·Farrar, Chaplain,
Albert Greilich, Senior Deacon,
Sacramento, Cal.
Edwin Delos Carpenter, Jun. Dcaco11,
Donald 'McClain, Senior Warden,
Tolbert Thomas Bray, Jun. Warden, Louis Reignhardt Plate, Marshal,
John Alexander Brown, Jr., Stew.,
William Ohmer Girardey, Treas ...
Theodore Jones Milliken, Secretary, Thaddeus Charles Tucker, Steward,
Robert Oscar Cravens, Tyler.
Sacramento, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Bolze, Edward Henry
Applegate, Thomas Jefferson
Bond, John
Arenz, Martin Philip
Bowen, John Murray
Arnold, John Henry
Bradley, Allan Cormack
Banvard, Louis Howell
Bray, Tolbert Thomas
Barrett, Isaac Thomas
Briggs, Wallace Alvin
Bart'on, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Brown, Charles Manning
Barton, James Nichols, Jr.
Bass, Edward Franklin
Brown, Egbert Alfred, P. M.
Brown, John Alexander, Jr.
Bath, William
Baughman, Wm. Elias John, P. M. Brown, Simeon
Burns, Charles Vietor
Beede, Jeremiah King
Campini, Faust Gotardo
Bell, Robert Orren
Carlson, Charles Alfred
Bergna, PetP.r
Bidwell, Claude Hubert StephensonCanniehael, Daniel Webster
Carpenter, Edwin Delos
Birt, William Randolph
Carpenter, Richard Julius, P. M.
Bittancourt, Thomas Maria, P. M.
Caselli, Ansono
Black, John Alexander
Chapman, George Warren
Blue, Myron Hooker

Church, William ·Smithers
Clarke, Joseph Marshall
Clemons, William Strong
Copelin, Thomas Edward
Cravens, Robert Oscar, P. M.
Cuthbert, William Williams
Davies, Chester Edward
Davies, Winfield Scott ·
Davis, William Buckley, P. M.
Davis, William Hewson, P. M.
DeCoe, Culver Adam
De Coe, Harold Dean~
Derman, George Lewis
Derman, William Frederick
Diggs, Marshall
Dodge, John Harry
Donald, William A.
Drescher, Valentine
Drew, Warren Francis
Driver, Grant Simpson
Driver, Philip Sample, P. 'M.
Duncan, Lewis Marshall
Ehret, Louis David, P. M.
Emigh, Clay Webster
Engstron, Carl Oscar
Ernst, Cuno August
Farrar, Charles Ernest
Fetterly, George Isaiah
Fisch, Willard Fred
Fisher, Henry, Jr.
Foster, Chester William
Foye, William Robinson Smith
Frommelt, Hugo
Futhey, James Allen
Geeslin, John William, P. M
Geiger, John Henry
Geiger, Louis, P. M.
Gett, William Andrew
Girardey, William Ohmer, P. M.
Givens, Charles Stuart
Goss, Charles Richard
Greilieh, Albert
Griggs, George Babel
Halley, Walter Fern
Harper, Horatio Thomas

13

Harvie, Harold Barr
·Harvie, Robert : Alfre~
Haub, John
.
Hawk, Elbridge LaFayette, P. M;
Hawk, Owen Dowd
Hayden, John Burt .
Hayden, John Henry
.Haynes, Edward
Heck, John
.Heilbron, Irving Lauis
Heintzelman, Taylor Washington
Reisen, Harry
Herold, Rudolph Adam
Hiatt, Hiatt Tisdale
Hill, William
Hintze, Emil Fred,erick
'Hite, Clifton Stimmel
Hooper, Harry Greenough
Hopkins, Stephen Irving
Hotchkiss, Frederick Spencer
Hughes, Eugene J •.
Hunt, Clarence Miller
Hyman, Daniel
Jackman, Samuel Hason
Jackson, William Franklin
James, George Somerset
James, ·Joseph William
Jamieson, John Alex.
Johnson, August Galmer
Jones, William Asa
· Kellum, Earl Junius
Kimbrough;, Richard Oscar
King, George Thomas
Knox, William Frederick
Leighton, Guy Porter
Lindgreen, Henrj August W., P. M.
Littlefield, Lewis Bunch
Look, Halleck Hart, P. M.
Love, Andrew Campbell
Lowry, Rolfe Leigh
Mallett, Reginald John
Martin, James Thurston, P. M.
Marzen, Joseph, P. M.
Massey, Horace Andrew, Jr.
MeAnear, Samuel Francis

ROSTER
McClain, Donald
McClain, Hem7 Harriaon
McCumsey, William Harrison
Mcindeor, Joli.n, P. M.
Mc:Master, James Curtin
McNair, Robert Blackwood
Mellor, Clarence Elmer
Merrell, Isaac Lambert
Miller, Frank Case
Miller, Frank Fargo
Milliken, Theodore Jones, P. M.
Morgan, Albert Henry, Jr.
Morris, Isidor Frederick
Nathan, Myron Sol
Nathan, Solomon Gottlieb
Oakley, Paul
0 'Kelly, Thomas J eft'erson
Olson, Peter Louis
Overmyer, Frank Elmer
Papa, John
Pearson, John Lewis
Philip, Robert
Phillips, Albert
Plate, Henry William
Plate, Louis Reignhardt, P. M.
Pomeroy, Qampbell
Poorman, Samuel
Prentiss, Charles Frederic
Prittie, Frank Halford
Ralph, Charles Southard
Renwick, George Arthur
Richert, Michael John
Richmond, Thomas Hugh
Riley, David Boland
Robertson, James
Robinson, Thomas
Roblin, Frederick Albert, P. M.
Schadt, Frederick William
Scheunert, Carl Emil
Schwartz, Charles August
Schwartz, Clemens William
Schwartz, Edward Jacob
Schweitzer, Edward
Scott, Thomas James

Shaw, Alfred
Sheridan, Hiram Wilson
Silsbee, Norwood
Spurlock, Erne1t
Steffensen, Peter
Steinman, Irving Leland
Stephens, Archel Rutherford
Stillman, Wilhelmus Mynderse
Stober, Frederick Conrad, P. M.
Stoll, Benjamin Franklin
Strobel, Carl August
Strader, Harvey Winton
Sturmer, Simon Charles
Sulsberg1 William Frederick
'faylor, Arthur Bloom
Teeter, John Kenney
Thirkield, Frank Lytle, P. M.
Thompson, James Ellsworth, P. M.'
Troxel, Clarence Marion
-.rfubbs, Henry Osmond
Tucker, Thaddeus Charles
Ulp, Alfred
Vaira, Charles
Vermilya, Abram John, P. M.
Vermilya, Abram John, Jr.
Waller, William John
Walther, William Rudolph
Warner, Norman Charles
Warren, John Wesley, P. M.
Washburn, Waldo Abisha
Watts, Henry Adelbert
Weckerly, Martin
Weinreich, Charles Edward
Warmuth, Preston Elmer
Wertheimer, Bert L.
White, Stephen Arthur Douglas
Wilson, Thomas
Witbeck, Horace Marcus
Wood, Thomas
Woodward, George Allen
Wratten, James Edward
Wright, John Melvin
Wright, William James
-213

ROSTER

15

WITHDRAWN:
Littlefield, Lewis Bateman
Wright, Henry Eugene

!kin, Arthur John

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Davisson, Downing Baugh
Reuter, Carl Henry

Eilers, Theodore George
Lewis, Leonidas Lee

DIED:
Skelton, John
Sonne, Andrew Christian
Wight, Albert Harrison

BENICIA LODGE, No. 5.
Benicia, Solano County.
Stated :Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Luther Blake Cooper, Master,
Charles P. Jurgensen, Sen. Deacon,
Benicia, Cal.
Lloyd Harry Liebman, /. Deacon,
James Scott Stevens, Sen. Warden, Richard Albrecht Schnetker, Marshal,
Harry Bodine Carr, Junior Warden, Frederick Zensen, Steward,
Sidney Frame, Treasurer,
William McNaighton, Steward,
John R. B. Chisholm, Secretary,
Phillip ] acob Troutwine, Tyler.
Benicia, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Allen, John
Clancy, Ray Lawrence
Anderson, Edmund Rudolph
Clayworth, Joseph Charles, P. M.
Austin, Burr Dale
Coleman, Warden Victor
Bahler, August
Cooper, Lawrence William
Bahler, Godfrey A.
Cooper, Luther Blake
Crooks, William Lowell
Booth, Edwin Lorema
Dalton, Alfred, Jr.
Brista, Manuel Lawrence
Brown, Elmore William
De Forest, John, P. M.
Cambia, Emanuel
Diggs, Benjamin Evans
Emmons, Frank Fletcher
Carr, Harry Bodine
Cereda, Dominico
Estey, Edwin, P. M.
Chaddock, Orva Andrew
Estey, Harold
Chambers, Edwin Thomas
Fairbank, William Smith
Chisholm, Angus A.
Fitzgerald, Frederic Gerald, P. M.
Chisholm, John R. Brown, P. M.
Fox, William
Christensen, Thomas
Fraga, Manuel

16

Frame, Sidney
Fraser, John Robert, P. M.
Frasier, John, P. M.
Freeman, Otis Kimball, P. M.
Geny, Lloyd Ivan
Giubbini, Joseph Severino
Gnauck, Gustav
Gunnard, Frank
Hart, David Marion
Hartman, John Adams
Huhs, John Julius
J e1ford, Frank Herbert
Johnston, Simon
Johnston, Simon Andrew
Jones, Ralph
Junker, Herman 0.
Jurgensen, Charles P.
Kenney, Frederick Channing
Keonig, Wm. Joseph
Kerr, Rasmus Hansen, P. M.
Krenke!, Albert George
Kropp, Jacob Henry, P. M.
Kullman, Jacob
Lea, Willis Marshall
Macdonald, James Edward
MacGregor, Rob Roy
Marmion, William
Martin, James Israel
Martinsen, Neils
McKay, Alexander
McKay, George Arthur
McKay, Thomas, P. M.
McKay, Thomas Sumner
McKay, William Daniel
McKenna, John Paul
McKenzie, James Buchanan
Merrick, John Newton
Miles, Francis Henry, Jr.,
Myhre, Clarence Emanuel
Nathan, Paul Gaston
Neilsen, Harry Russell
Noble, William E.

ROSTER

ROSTER !
Olsen, Oscar H.
O'Neill, Martin William
Petersen, Otto Charles
Ra1fetto, Luigi
Roberts, William
Robinson, Phillip Archibald
Rogers, Edward Francis
Royster, Joseph Allen
Rueger, Godfrey
Rummelsburg, Adolph
Salz, Ansley Kullman, P. M.
Salz, Moses Kullman
Sanborn, Joseph Lewis
Schmidt, Max Emil Paul
Schmidt, William John
Schneider, George
Schnetker, Richard Albrecht
Shattuck, Frank Bachelder
Sherburne, John Shepard
Singler, Otto Herman
Smith, James Ambrose
Smith, Paul Martin
South, George Whitside
Stevens, James Scott
Stewart, Charles
Trautz, Otto George, P. M.
Troutwine, Phillip Jacob
Wagner, John Ellis
Walker, Revello Monroe
Ward, Henry Percy
Watson, Daniel Mitchell, P. M.
Weymouth, Herbert Newtol!
White, Henry Kirk
White, Herbert Cornelius
Wilkie, John Blues
Will, Andrew Jackson
Wilson, Carrol Leslie
Wilson, Donald Wesley
Wilson, Wesley Thomas
Wimble, Charles Wilson
Witte, Henry
Zensen, Frederick
-116

Evans, Mark
Friedman, Abraham L .

WITHDRAWN:
Friedman, Nathaniel W.
King, William
Walker, William Frederick

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Esperance, Blaise
Seaman, Alexande! Welby
Reid, James
Simmon~, Ralph Walden
DIED:
Coleman, William Joel

TUOLUMNE LODGE, No. 8.
Sonora, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Eric "John Segerstrom, Master,
Charles H. Burden, Chaplain,
Sonoma, Cal.
Rowan Hardin, S enior Deacon,
James Henricksen, S enior Warden, Frank E. Wetherbee, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas Lincoln Richards, J. Ward., Richard Inch, Marshal,
William Edwin Burden, Treasurer, Louis Bach, Steward,
William F. King, Secretary,
George A. Griffin, Steward,
Sonora, Cal.
George 0. Parker, Tyler.

Allgewahr, George
Allgewahr, Louis, Jr.
Bach, Lewis Hiury
Baker, Harry Walcott
Ball, Cary
Ball, Farlon Ford
Barlow, Abraham
Barton, Eugene Hamilton
Belli, Caesar Arthur
Benas, Solomon, P. M.
Billings, Samuel Moses
Bishop, Joseph Henry
Black, George T., P. M.
Black, William John
Blocklinger, Emil Arthur
Boesch, Louis
2

MEMBERS:
Bogio, Frederick
Booker, William Elijah
Bouchard, E. J.
Bowers, Frederick Urban
Brunson, Horace Wilber
Burden, Charles .Henry
13urden, William Edwin
Callihan, William
Carmichael, Niel
Case, Le Roy
Chatfield, Walter
Chute, Richard·
Clayton, Charles Hiraru
Clayton, George Louis
COffill, Harry James
Gollier, Mentor Carl

11

ROSTER
181

19

ROSTER

Cramer, Herman, Jr.
Dalles, J. R.
Dambacher, Joseph C.
Davenport, Frank Early
Dewitt, Wilmar
Dixon, John Nathll-n
Donald, Ralph Sellek
Eastman, William White
Elliott, Joseph E.
Elliott, Lewis Horatio
Eslick, Charles
Fisk, Fred A.
Fletcher, Albert C
Fulcher, Raymond E.
Gallut, Victor
Godfrey, Charles Homens
Goodwin, Frank Halsey
Gould, Eiisb.a Tolman, P. M.
Greenlaw, Lester Alonzo
Guerena, Louis Alexander
Hale, George Webb
Hampton; Crittenden, P. M
Hardin; Rowan
Hender, Samuel John
Hender, Thomas Arthur Stiles
Hendriksen; Jaµies
Hicken, Ernest Edward
Hood, William Lyman, P. M.
Hornung, John Henry
Hoskins, Joseph
Inch, Richard, P. M.
Inch, William
Johnson, Gustaf
Johnson, John Frank
Jones, Charles Vance
Jones, Bay Everett
King, William Fielding
Krause, William
Knowles, June H
Knudsen, Nils Ladefoged, P. M.
Lampson, Orlanda
Lampson, Robert E. L.
J,angton, George Henry
Lawson, Jesse Nils
Leon, Samuel

Lewellyn, William
Littlefield, John Franklin
Long, William Giles, P. M.
Macpherson, John
Mansfield, Josiah Weller
McKenzie, Alex. Stewart
Morgan, George Phillip
Morrice, George
Morrow, George Washington
Mouron, Otto Julius, P. M.
Mitchell, Frederick William
Nash, John ·Frank
Newell, William Hamilton
Nicol, George Woodburn, P. M.
Ogden, Byron Augustus
Parker, George O.
Patterson, George John Hurd
Paulsen, Hans Christian
Pownall, Joseph Benjamin
Preston, Boward Alvin
Preston, Charles W.
Richards, Thomas Lincoln
Rosaco, Leo Francis
Rundell, Robert Edward, P. M.
Robinson, Frank Abbott
Robison, William Lynn
Sartoris, Abraham
Sayre, DeZeng Laurence
Scanlan, James Louis
Scott, Archibald
Segerstrom, Chas. Homer, P. M.
Segerstrom, Eric John
Shafer, Charles Edward, P. M.
Shaw, George Herces
Shine, John Henry
Smullen, Joseph Milton
Soulsby, Benjamin
Stanley, Horace Martin
Steimetz, David Henry
Sullivan, George Thomas
Street, Frank Wilson, P. M.
Thisse, Frank George
Thow, George
Tonkin, John Lee
Trittenbach, Albert

Toms, R~_~hard
Traves, Harry EarlVial, John
Walsh, Harry William
Weimei, William
Wellington, Henry
Wells, Thomas Washington

West, John Henry
Wetherbee, Frank Erv:iJle
Wise, John Friedman
Witney, John Lorin
Wonderly, John Martin,
West, Thomas Otho

,,.
I

1

., .

t 1•

,-135

WITHDRAWN:
Callow, Charles Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYM~NT OF DUES:.
Anthony, David Ritchard ·
Armstrong, Elmer Holl1!-Jld 1 ,
Anthony, Edward Reese
Jess, Willard Noble
. •i
Martin, William Kennith

•1

DIED:
Sharrock, Everard

CORINTHIAN LODGE, No. 9. ·
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Wilford Poql, Master,
Marysville, Cal.
Arthur Walter Gluckman, S. Ward.,
Frank Waldo Plaskett, J. Warden,
George Roberts Eckart, Treasurer,
Lewis Boyd Wilcoxon, Secretary,
Marysville, Cal.

Will Stuart Wilson, Chaplain,
John Robert Young, Sen. Deacon,
Frank Hosking, Junior Deacon,
Oscar Leonidas Meek, Marshal,
Alfred Herman Alderman,. Steward,
Gustave Schneider, Steward,
Elbridge Porter Andross,. Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Aaron, Charles Francis, P. M.
Bolton, George F.
Alderman, Alfred Herbert
Bossen, Emile Fred
Androes, Albert Knight
Bowen, Chester LeRoy
Androes, Elbridge Porter
Brooks, Charles Samuel, Jr.
Armstrong, Claude Herbert
Bruce, Eugene Harrison
Barnes, Cyrus Anson
Brul, Bernard John
Beam, Ward Fred
Burroughs, William Curt
Belcher, Edward Augustus
Buttelman, Frederick William, P. M.
Berry, James McConnell
Chase, Arthur Willis
Bingham, Atkins Clark, P. M.
Chase, Charles Frederic, P. M.

ROSTER
.ROSTER
Chase, Thomas
• Learmont, William Clarence
Cohn, Isaa&lGeballe
Lewek, Albert Jacob ·
Collier, George
Lewek, Solomon, P. M.
Conley, Robert Milton
Locklin, Curtis Byron
Cooley, Allen
MacLellan, John George, P. M.
Cooley, Edward Sedgwiek
Maseman, Charles Louis
<lrane, Francis Benjamin
Mayer, Christopher
Maynard, James Monroe
Crook, Leslie Blaine
Crook, Fred_ Austin
Mccready, Edward John, P. M.
Meek, Oscar Leonidas
Day, Frederick Henry
Day, Richard
Meek, William Mayo
Davenport, Francis William
Metteer, Cliarles Franklin, P. M.
Davenport; William Battles, P. M. Mitchell, Henry Keller
Deitz, George Washington
Myer, Herbert John
Dougall, Thomas
Nelson, Jefferson Davis·
Newmyer, Willis Goss
Dyer, Charles W.
Eckart, George Roberts
Nyrop, David Frank
Eckart, Marcus Alger
Parker, Theodore Roosevelt
Edeler, James Otto
Parks, Louis Herbert, P. M.
Edeler, Otto James
Peacock, William Flint, P. M.
Elder, George Washington
Peake, Harry Garfield
Evans, Isaac Curtis
PIJiskett, Frank Waldo
Fetrow, Dl.Lvid Ernest
Poole, Frank Wilford
Flentge, Max
Pozzi, Romeo
Forbes, Edwin Alexander
Roberts, Frederic
Ford, Sylvester Joseph
Roche, George Eilward
Fordham, Free Delbert
Rous, Edwin Frederick
Gluckman, Arthur Walter
Schneider, Abraham Nathan
Goodpastor,· Edwin Jatnes, P. M.
Schneider, David Nathan
Hampton, Charles Cecil
Schneider, Gustave
Schneider, Seymour Nathan
Hedges; Chester Arthur, P. M.
Heilmann, Edward
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Heilmann, Paul, Jr.
Seawell, Floyd Selden
Higgins, John Henry
Sharp, Daniel Lawrence
·Sieber, Henry Frederick, P. M.
Himes, Charles Ed-vvard
Hodgkins, Will Mayo
Simons, Robert Ray
Hosking, Frank
Smith, Chester Albert
Stall, Frank William
· Howell, John Hamilton
Stall, George Edward
Hunter, William
Stanwood, Ed.ward Babson
Irwin, Alexahder Cameron, F. M.
Stanwood, Richard Goss
Kelly, William Frederick
Strain, William J,
Kelser, C!J.ristian Christopher
Strock, Aibei-"t Benj.
Kosby, Augustus :E<mil
Swift, Claren"ce Eugene
Krause, Frederick Francis
Tapley, .tci'seph Franklin
Lane; Frank

Toland, John
Trow, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Waste, Jesse Jackson
Weinlander, Edward
Weis, Samuel Julius
Wells, Roff Hague

2T

Wenzell, Harry William
Wilcoxon, Lewis Boyd, P. M.
Wilson, Will Stuart, P. M.
Wright, .Elnathan Searles
Wuth, Charles Christian
" l
Young, John Robert
.....:;122

.WITHDRAWN:
Martin, Allen Birch
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Baker, Robert James
Hoffert, Henry Harrison
,
Coombs, Joseph Elden
Stephenson, Charles Edward
Ganion, Joseph B.
White, Espie- Alexander
Heilmann, Paul
White, John C.
Weber, Henry Victor
! .

EXPELLED:
Pine, George Washington
DIED:
Ellis, William ;riu;ner

.

• i:J[

(

~

l'•

...

r-i!"

.•: r
. I.

t

Lott, Henry Charl~ H J,- f{'[ • .I
Price, Charles J.
T ,.:
,,df

SAN JOSE LODGE, No. to.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.
"'stated Me~tings, first Monday in each month.
• :.1·.
,_
OFFICERS:
Cornell Harry Wheeler, Master,
San Jose, Cal.
Fred Doerr, Senior Warden, . •
Allan Osi:;,ar Mait.he~;·i. ryafden,
John Henry McGehee,,. Treasurer,
Milton Amos Boulware, Secretary,
P. 0. Box 776, San Jose, Cal.
J',. .

-

~i.~

Ackley, Gilbert Tpomas
Addicott, James Edwin
Adelson, Julius
Alexander, Wijlia~ Gay
Anderson, Jolin Zµinguilus
<r

~

I•

'T

: I

Francis Edwin Smith, Chaplain.,. ;r
Albert Edan ~andbo, Sen-, Deacon,
George Barron St~vens, J,., .Deaco~, . r
Frederick f:uge11;e JohnstQpe, Mar.,: ff
William Christy Berry, St.i,~rd, . ·,, r
Milton Maggini, Steward,· · ·
Marvin H. Conklin, Tyler.

. MEMBERS:

Anderson, Martin Gustave ;
And11rson, Philip . . . i
Appleton, Morris ,
Asay, Jacob l,.a~bert, P •. M. ·
Ayer, Fr!!!1k · ~lltoU: • , T' •

22.

Ayer, Samuel Elden
Bachrodt1 Walter Lewis
Bacon, Albert Sylvester
Bacon, Sanford Lord, P. M.
Bailey, Charles Everett
Bailey, Elton Ream, P. M.
Bailey, Willard Chapin
Baker, Lewis Elwin
Baker, Morgan Dillon
Ball, Marion Francis
Ballou,· John Quincy Adams
Bane, John L.
Barber, Lawrence Evans
Barker, Ambrose Branch
Barker, George Leon
Barker, Harry Clark
Barnes, Edward Melvin
Barnes, James
Barnum, John Starr
Barstow, Wm. Addison
Barthel, Franklin Keifer
Bath, EdwHd Robert
Bay, Lewis Irwin
Bean, George Albert
Bean, Le Roy
Beasley, William Arthur
Beattie, Andrew
Beatty, James
Benson, Frank Henry
Bennett, Elmo Harrison
Bernhardt, William Jacob
Berrar, Henry
Beny, William Christy
Bevens, Edgar Alphonso
Biggs, Marshall Alexander
Blair, James Clark
Blois, James Byron
Bobbitt, Harry
Boes, Frederick Franz
Boes, Jacob
Borodori, Martin James
Bothwell, Charles Allen
Boulware, Milton Amos
Brabetz, William Frank
Brackett, Jethro Nat. Bruce

ROS'fEB

ROSTER
Braden, William Durand
Bray, George
· Bray, Lester Franklin
Bristol, Harlan Page
Bromley, Robert Van Vliet
Brosius, August Fred
Buffo, Anthony
Cann, Arthur
Cash, Albert B.
Casper, Alfred Bertrand
Castle, Arthur Francis
Castle, Neville Hart
Castle, Roy Nelson
Chaffee, Allan Earl
Chapman, Frank Raymonu
Chappell, William
Chartier, Daniel Arthur
Chase, Elmer Ellsworth
Chase, James Albert
Chrisman, William Henry
· Chrysler, Chas. Boynton
Claflin, Morris Fairfax
Clark, Charles James
Clayton, Willis Sherman
Clifton, Henry
Clover, John Henwood
Cocking, John
Conant, Ernest Woodbury, P. M.
Conklin, Marvin H.
Costa, Charles John
Costa, Charles Roy
Costello, Edward Eastas
Coutant, Charles Gale
Costain, Thomas
Crider, Jacob Wright, P. M.
Crist, Squire Belden
.Croney, Philemon D.
Crossman, Walter Everett
Crothers, Charles Fair
Crow, Richard
Davis, Thomas Haines
Davy, John William
De Hart, Clarence
Dement, Clarence Hugh
Dennis, John Soulsby

"

De Sparr, Eugene Chas. S.
Devine, Everett Bee
Dewey, Frank William
Dill, Leslie Hudson
Dixon, Frank Alexander
Doerr, Frederick
Donahoo, Frank Leslie
Donlan, William
Donovan, William Gould
Down, Robert Hodge
Dunham, George
Dynes, William Henry
Ebentrant, Irven Stephen
Eddy, Alonzo Hencilly
Ellis, John
Essery, Maurice Robert William
Evans, Reece Thompson
Everett, Ernest Royal
Fairchild, John Alarie
Farrington, Melvin J.
Farrington, Sidney Delbert
Faser, John Ross
Fassett, Thomas A. K.
Ficklin, John Thoinas
Field, Zibeon Orison
Field, Chapin Hall
Fikes, Henry J .•
Fillmore, Frederick Burnet t
Fillmore, Frederick Donald
Fisler, llenry Beach
Foss, Edward Elmer
Franzen, Andrew
Fraser, Paul
Fraser, William Flemming
French, William H.enry
F r etwell, Silas Ashley
Fry, Hawley Ray
Fuller, William Belden
Gardner, Robert Coleman
Garnot, H eilaire Lou.i s
Gassett, John Eames
Geach, John Sowden
Gerichs, John Christean
Gladewitz, Christean David
Goldsmith, Berthold

i ~3

Gondring, John Matthew
· • •Iii · ' ·
Gordon, Lee Burr
•I . "" •
(Jraebe, Charles Edward· 1 • ' • • • • •
Grant, Alex. Drummond
Grant, John Hamilton
Gratz, John William .
. •11 ·•
Graves, Joseph Hiram •" r
.:1. •
Gray, Simon Johnstone '
"''
Gray, Verne
Greer, John Lawrence ·' .I · •· ,,.,,
Griffin, Frederick
.· II!• . 11 •· •:1•.P !
Grunwell, Horace
· ·· .'
Gummer, E verett Edward' ...
Hablutzel; Charles Ed-VVard, P: M'. ! ,
Hagerdon, Charles Luthet . f ·'""
Haig, Robert Leslie
· ,:, ·
Hambly, Walter Herold '' •'·
Hamlin, Edwin Claire · d ' ' '.1
Hapgood, Alfred Adam · · · " · ·' ·
Harbeck, Theo. Marlin ·William •,• ·
1
Hardy, Thomas West
f · ' ·" ··' ;
Harker, Charles Sumner . •, i \ . .; ·• · :
Harlan, Orren Arthur ·· ·· ,. • . ••\:
Harms, Henry August
,. : ! . ., lk. :
Hasen, .John 8.
•· :
·' •
Haskins, Alb ert Fay
·· '• · .·.' ·
Haskins, Wm. How&Td
.. " ' ·
Hazard, Emil J .
.··r;;
· Heid, Louis Gotleib
·'' '' 1.
Henry, James H8.rrison
•!.' 1 : ·
Hensill, John Samuei
;, .·:.... •
Henwood, Joseph Richard . · ; • · ·
Herrold, Ebenezer Wilson
•~
Hess, Alex. Wesley
; •····
Hepburn, Charles Thomas' · • . ;.• ·
.. ·· • ... ·
Heple, Theo. Felix
Herrmann, Frank Adol'[ih · · · = • • •
Berringer, F ranklin Pel.er · • .,.. .. ·
Hestwood, James Osman
,,., ·
Hewett, James
..,,,..
Hill, Henrie Granville·
• ,., .
': · ·' · ·
Hixson, Morris-Claton
Boeken, Robert William ·
· · '··
Holston, Wm. Amasa
/.'! • ·
Howell, Henry John
• '' "" ·

,

ROSTER
Lisle, Howard
Hubback, Charles Edward
Huff, William Jackson
LeWis, Lawrence
Hunt, Harold Gelbert
Liebert, Julius Michael
Hunt, John West ·
Lipsett, Archie
H1land, Michael Henry
Livingston, William
Jackson, George Washington
Lombardo, Angela
.Jaokson, Ruben Cox
Long, David Leroy
.James, Charles Hodge
Lowe, Ralph, P. M.
James, William Henry
Lowe, Sam Butterworth
.January, William Alexander, P. M. Lowe, Sherburne Whitema:n
· Jarman, Albert Hutchinson, P. M. Lundin, Theodore Charles
Macomber, John Harrison
.Tarman, John Plaskett, P. M.
Maggini, Milton
Jenkines, William Keaster
.Tohllson, Clarenee Franklin
Mann, Charles William
Martinsen, Martinez Bert
Johll&ton, Walter Samuel
Marvin, Frank Freeman
Johflstone, Frederick Eugene
Martin, Oscar Tolley
Jones, Cyrus
Masson, Paul
.Jones, William
Mathew, Allan Oscar
Kalfus, Joseph Leland
Mathews, Charles T.
Kapp, Michael William
May, George Baldazar
Kautlehner, Christian George .P.
Maynard, Charles Cyrus
Keesling, James Clarence
McCloskey, Thomas
Kelly, Claude
McDonald, Archibald
Kelly, Henry Clay
McDonald, Georg411 Ue:o.ry
Kennedy, George Augustus
McFaul, Charles Li:o.coln
Key, John Powel
McGehee, John Henry, P. M.
King, Ernest Samuel
MeGlau1lin, George Vails
King, Frank Giorza, P. M.
McKenzie, George Wilson
Klein, Emile
McKier.nan, Frank.Charles Henry
·•Koch, Adolph Jacob
McReynolds, William Isaac
Koch, George Adolph
.McQuarrie, Gordon
Kooser, Roley Sherman
Metcalf, Charles Otis
Krause, William Henry
Meyer, Fr.e derick Henry
Langkamp, Charles Albert
Miller, Samuel Borlund
Lanyon, Byron
.. Moan, Allen James
Lathwesen, Louis John
Moltzen, Hermann
I..atta, Guy Milton
Montgomery, Edwin C.
Lawrence, Eugene ·Bertram
Moore, Benjamin Sidney
LeBreck, Frank
Moore, Samuel Gra:o.t
Leach, William
Muirson, George Albert
Lean, William Carvasso
MuM, Cologero
Ledyard, Benjamin Cory
Nelson, John
Ledyard, Henry Horatio
Neren, David Nehemiah
Leigh, Hugh Alexanrler
Neren, Paul Theophilus
Lemmon, John Le Grantl

ROSTER
Newman, Isador
Nickerson, Franklin Lewis
Ogden, Lewis Ira
Olinder, Albert Manfred
Olson, Percy Emil
Orvis, William Shakespear
Ownby, Thomas Powell
Page, George William
Palmer, Jacob Ellsworth
Parks, ~amuel Daniel
Parton, Floyd Arthur
Pascoe, John Charles
Patton, John Quincy
Pauw, Cornelius Jacobus
Pawley, Albert LesltePearse, Warren Mi.Ito~
Pellier, Entrope Joseph L.
Pelton, Stephen Garfield .
Pennoyer, Chester HJc~s
Percy, Calvin Wheeler ·
.Perkins, Chri1,1topher Freder
Pfau, Louis john
Phillips, William Francis
Pierce, Wilbert Elmer
Plummer, Jabez Chester
Polk, Emery Smith
Poore, Jame~ Bob~·
Post, Alfred Breed .
Powell, George Ernesi.
Pozzo, Francisco
Proctor, BenJ: Parris
Proctor, Calderon Weld
Radford, Joseph D.
Rainey, Jose.p h Weriley
Reade, Charles Dwight
Rhoads, Lewis William
Rice, Charles Warren
Rich, Samual Herman
Richards, Albert
Richards, Benjamin Franklin
Richardson, Channing Alonzo
Richmond, Edmund Nutting
Richmond, Geo:rge
Richmond, George Andrew
Riggs, Wm. Edward

Rinaldo, David
Roberts, Albert Forrest
Roberts, Joseph Lewis
Rodgers, George
Bowley, Albanus Bellger
Royal, Edwin John
Rubell, Wm. Henry
Ruble, Robert Simon
Rucker, Samuel Newton
Russ, Arthur Charles
Russell, William, P. M.
Sage, Lewis Alvin
Sandbo, Albert Edan
Sanderson, Edward Wavell
Saph, Louis.Victor, P. M.
Schemmel, Frank Pfister
Schloegel, Frederick Edw'd Aug.
Schramm, Bennett Lawrence
Schultz, Charles Hieronymus
Schuman, Henry
Sears, Ilernard Giesea
Sexton, William
Shearer, Paul Morphy
Shoup, Edward Glendening
Simpson, William
Singletary, Emory Grigsby
Singletary, George Curtis
Skinner, Edwin Hume
Smith, Francis Edwin
Smith, Harrison Pryor
Spencer, Hume Alexander
Spencer, Hume Francis
Stj,uire, Paul Edwin
Stellin,g, William Christian
Sterne, Harry Raymond
Stevens, George Barron
Stevens, Thomas J edsin
Stock, Edwin Alfred
Styche, Arthur John
Summers, Robert Onell
Sutton, Alfred Martin
Sweigert, George Adam
- Swickard, James Blaine
Tayler, William Grey
Tayler, William Stewart

25

ROSTER

26

Thompson, Roy Burton
Thompson, Samuel
Thompson, William Wallace
Thorne, Charles Davenport
Thornton, Henry Dixon
Tomlinson, Alfred
Topham, Edward
Topham, Frank Henry
Topham, William
Townsend, Arthur Chisholm
Tripp, Clifton Jay
Tripp, Herbert Russell
Trone, Isaac
Tuthill, Joseph Brown T.
Tuttle, Hiram Daniel
Valp~y, Calvin
Van Tyne, James Albert
Wagener, Samuel Hopkins
Wait, Orlin
Wasson, William McLeod
Watson, Thomas Grey, P. M.

Burnight, Thomas Starr

Weber, Frank Ferguson
Welles, George Ed. Benton ,.
Wheeler, Cornell Harry
Whipple, Frank Edwin
Whisler, Carl Wm.
Wight, David
Wilcox, Wilbur Justus, P. M.
Willi, John
Williams, Amos Ottis
Williams, Paul Sibley, P. M.
Wilson, Chester Sparks
Wilson, Harry Alfred
Winans, Claude 0.
Winkless, Lamartine William
Winninger, Joseph Urban
Wise, Fr.nklin Ball
W olden,''.Rueeell Lewis
Wooster, Clarence Marshall
Wretman, Niles Emil
Wright, Eli
---4,12
Wright, Frank Talbot

WITHDRAWN:
Ickes, Daniel W.
Wood!, Robert Clay

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kelly, Frank Bennett
Cheveriel, l!'rederick
Ramage, Andrew
Granger, Frank Sylvester
Sheaff, Charles Raymond
Harms, Maynard Heim
Edwin Henry
DIED:
Alexander, Howard Augustus
Hawley, William George
Fee, George Washington
Jones, Albert Lincoln
Th9mpson, Samuel Hallee~

ROSTER

YOUNT LODGE, No.

27

12.

Napa, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Howard Morgan, Master,
William Duval McManus, S. Deacon,
Napa, Cal.
Walter Hayes, Junior Deacon,
James Gillies, Senior Warden,
William Thompson Smith, Chaplain,
James Craig, Junior Warden,
Robert Crees, Marshal,
Edward Derrel Beard', Treasurer,
George L. Hunter, Steward,
Earl Hilsinger Raymond, Secretar~, Edward Somers, Steward,
Napa, Cal.
Robert Spinks Bell, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Amstutz, Henry Louis
Corlett, Robert
Anderson, James Martin
Craig, James
Bachman, Llewellyn Thomas
Crees, Robert, P. M.
Bailey, William Augustin
Crow, Max J., P. M.
Barker, Arthur Burleigh
Davis, Morrow Henry
Barnes, Jay Ritchie
Davis, William Edward
Bauer, Christian Herman
DeBonis, Guiseppi
Beard, Edward Derrel
Derry, Thomas
Beard, James Edgar
Dunlap, David Anderson, P. M.
Beard, Derrel Leonard
Dunnage, George Henry William
Bell, Harry Llewellyn
Edlund, Gustaf Alfred
Bell, Robert Spinks
Errington, Samuel Henry
Bendel, William Carl
Evans, John Parry
Bick.ford, Elmer Leonard, P. M.
Evans, Luther John
Blunk, Arthur Scott
Finnell, Williamson
Bruno, Adam
Flagler, Albert Daniel
Bunjes, Frederick Hermann
Fossum, Otto Bergerson
Bush, Franklin William
Frisbie, Charles Albert
Butler, Ira Mortimer
Furber, William Giddings
Butler, Ralph Morris
Gardner, James Buchannon
Butters, Angus
Gatje, ,Tacob Charles
Cain, J ohri Alexander
Germain, William Eugene
Chalmers, John Howard
Gillies, James
Chapman, William Levi
Gilson, Gilson Albert
Chisholm, Alfretl Arthur
Graham, William
Clarke, Alexander Douglass
Graff, Louis
Conklin, Charles Post
Gregory, Charles McCloon
Coombs, Nathan Foster
Grigsby Alphonse De Lafayette
Corlett, William Henry
Grossman, Adolphus Herman

ROSTER

28
Haas, David Leopold
Harden, Joseph C.
Hays, Walter
Hearn, George Albert
Henry, '"'.Villiam Putnam
Herron, George Merrick
Herron, Isaac George
Hill, George Wesley
Hoernle, Henry John
Hoft'man, Oliver
Holden, Robert Smyth, P. M.
Horstmeyer, Henry Conrad
Hottel, Eli Washington
Howell, Joseph
Hull, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Hunter, George Ludlow
Hunter, William
Husmann, Fred 'k Ludwig
Israelsky, George
Jaekle, Carl John
Jepson, Frederik'
Johnston, Finis Ewing, P. M.
Johnston, Harry Lewis, P. llll.
Jordan, Fred Murray
King, Percival Simpson, P. M.
Klose, Walter William
Knief, Henry George
Knudsen, Andrew
Kyser, Daniel Sterling, P. M.
Lindow, William James
Liver, Richard
Mccuaig, Ale~. Malcolm, P. M.
Marois, Theodore Miximillian
Mason, Charles Edmund
Mason, James, P. M.
Mathews, Edwin Davis
Maxwell, Charles Ale:x;ander
McManus, William Du:va,l
Michelson, Oliver
Morgan, James Howard
Moss, John
Moss, Levi
Moulton, Eddy Stillman
Murray, Henry Wilson
McClelland, Joseph Alexander

29

ROSTER
McCollum, William John
McCue, James Edward
McKenzie, Wm. David
McManus, Samuel
McWade, David Dale
Newman, James Bartholome1'·
Oliver, Thomas
Overdeck, Milton Henry
Parker, John .Watson
Parker, Arthur Campbell
Pederson, John Adolph, P. M.
Pinkham, George Grafton
Pond, Frank Alfred
Powers, Philo Fitch
Prouty, Arthur Garfield
Ramsey, Robert Randolph
Rasmussen, Andrew
Rathke, Otto Paul
Raymon4, Earl Hilsinger, P. M.
Raymond, Reuben
Raymond, ~illiam Perkins
Riggins, Clarence Nye
Robertson, ~ohn
Robertson, Willi!'om Ball
Rohrer, John Charles
Ross, Cecil Parl::es
Rutherford, Wallace Taylor
Schulze, Otto Theo.
Shepard, Edward Ralph
Shepard, Samuel Philo
Shwarz, David
Shwarz, William
Smith, Walthall Ridgway
Smith, William Thompson, P. M..
Somers, Edward
Stark, John Henderson
Stephens, George William
Stevens, James Baunty, P. G. M.
Stice, Tyre Harrison
Stice, William Wirt
Strohl, George Washington
Swift, John Jackson
Taylor, Robert Francis
Trower, Charles Edward, P. M.
Trubody, William Alexander

Vincent, John Richard A.u gustus
Voigt, William
Westendorf, Howard Wallie
Whitton, Herbert Blakeslee
Wichells, Johann Diedrich

Davies, John Henry

Wilkins, Benjamin Sidney
Williams, Fred Waldo, P. M.
Young, Guy Wallace
Young, William Harvey

-157

WITHDRAWN:
Harker, Charles Sumner
Klose, Berthold Edwill

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Clark, R9:y Dennison
hatch, Frederick Winslow
DIED:
Auerbach, Charles
Bradford, William
Alumbaugh, William Edward
Gardner, Alden Monroe
Lord, George Washington

NEV ADA LODGE, No. 13_.
Nevada City, Nevada County.
\
Stated Meo?tings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Benja,min Hall, Master,
Nevada City, Cal.
James Snell, Senior Warden,
Ray Hays, Junior Warden,
John Thomas Morgan, Treasurer,
William Edward Meservey, Sec.,
Nevada City, Cal.

Thomas Henry Waters, Chaplain,
George William Ogden, Sen. Deacon,
Lloyd Worthington Jennings, J. D.,
Frederick Luther Arbogast, Marshal,
Mark L. Roberts, Steward,
Henry Rablin Hoskins, Steward,
William Floyd, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Allen, William Grant
Bovey, Albert John
Arbogast, Frederick Luther, P. llll. Brackett, Arthur Grover
Armstrong, Leroy Ellwood
Brand, Herman William
Ashburn, Hans Arent
Brown, George William
Barruzza, Emile
Cirman, William Kelly
Beach, Egbert William
Catelett, George C.
Bean, Oliver Wesley
Chapman, Chester Warren, P. M.
Becker, John N.
Chisholm, James
Bennetts, Richard John
Coan, Thomas Nicholas
Bonney, James Henry
Colley, James Francis, P. M.

30
Conley, Charles Henry
Cohn, Casper
· Cohn, Ephraim
Cook, George Harry
Cooper, Herbert Marcellas
Craig-, Michael Francis
Cross, Charles Wesley
Cull, Henry
Cunard, James Henry
Curnow, Horace Austin
Curnow, John ..;\rthur, P. M.
Curnow, Robert
Curnow, Phillip
Dailey, Daniel Albert, P. M.
Delbridge, Abel Nicholas
Dunning William
Eddie, Hamilton
Eddy, Charles Henry
Eddy, Grove Charles
Eden, John Herman
Edwards, Edward Samuel
Englebright, William F.
Erskine,. Fred Alexander
Evans, John
.Faull, George Henry
Fleming, Joseph Davenport
Floyd, William
Fogg, William Willis
Folene, Antone
Gans, Charles Cordelia
Gaylord, Ralph Wright
Glasson, Josiah
Gilbert, Josiah Stephen
German, Henry
Godfrey, James
Gray, George Alfred
Grissel, Charles Augustus
Hahn, Jean Mallotte
Hall, Benjamin
llarvey, Geo. Goodsell
Hays, Ray
Helwig, Henry Lester
Hill, Charles Wilson
Hiscox, Irving Menner
Hitchings, John Mathew

..

ROSTER
Holland, Jacob Lafayette
Holmes, William· ·
Hoskins, Henry Rablin ·
Hughes, Thomas 'T.
Ivey, John Reid
Jacqumar, Robe~t
Jennings, Lloyd W.
Jepson, Christian Hans
Jorgenson, Christian, P. M.
Jones, John Richard
.K,en.t , CliArles Erastus
KiUs, Herbert Stewart
Landsburg, Jasper G.
Lean, James Henry
Lear, Samuel Best
Legg, George Arthur
Lord, Atherton Simeon, P. M.
Mallen, Christopher Henry
Marl\h, Daniel
Marsh, Sherman Ward
,Martin, Alfred
Martin, William Henry
Maynard, Albert Charles
McCullough, Robert ,fames
McDonald, Wallace
Meservey, Eugene Bond, P. M.
Meservey, William Edmund, P. M.
Mobley, Leon Walter
·Moore, Edward Anslem
Morgan, Eddy John
Morgan, David Eddy, P. M.
Morgan, David Naffiziger
Morgan, John Thoma.a, P. M.
Morrison, Angus Ray
Muir, David Dalrymple
Muller, Carl Louis, P. M.
Nielson, Niels Johan
Nivens, Archibald
Ogden, George William
Osborn, Thomas Israel
Parini, Daniel
Parsons, Walter Emons
Pellamounter, Thomas
Peterson, Gustaf
Philbrick, Fred Everet

ROSTER

31

Piolitti, John Baptiste
Skidmore, Grant
Plummer, Richard
Snell, Albert Knapp
Porter, Eugene Gerald
Snell, James
Power, Erastus Barnum
Snell, Nicholas
Pratt, Merrit.t Berry
Smith, Hal. Othro
Quinn, Michael
Stenger, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Rauch, Alex., P. M.
Stenger, Joseph Floyd, P. M.
Randolph, William Cooper, P. M.
Swank, William J.
Redington, James, P. M .
Towle, Carrol Wallace
Reynolds, William John
Treadwell, James Buchanan
Richards, David
Tregidgo, Al!mzo Adolphus
Richards, Glyns James
Tremaine, Richard John
Richards, John Henry
Tremaine, Robert Bennett
Richards, William Gilbert, P. M.
Trood, John, P. M.
Richardson, Robert
Turner, Robert Haviland
Roberts, Mark L.
Tyler,· George Alton
Roberts, Stephen Henry
Veal, William Henry
Robinson, George Edward
Vizzard, Joseph H.
Rolfe, William Jasper
. Waters, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Rossen, Rasmus Peterson, P. M.
Weiss, Frederick Erhardt
Rosewall, James Henry
White, Francis
Rowe, William
White, James C.
Scarfe, George
Wilborn, Miles Richard
Scarfe, George Orin
Williams, Richard
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Winnis, Charles Henry
Searls, Fred
Wood, Frank Merton
Siddles, Milan Buchard
-163
Bell, Francis Ray
Gray, Thomas Benton

WITHDRAWN:
Martin, John James
Shaw, George Crawford
W eisenburgh, Christian C.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gray, Harry Brooks
Sanders, Charles Lawrence

Ashton, David
Bank, Frederick William
Eagye, Elzeva
Ennis, Franklin
Griffin, William

DIED:
Goodwin, Jeremiah Samuel
Kistle, William Henry
Lamb, Francis Arthur
Langman, John
'! 'rood, William
Westerfield, William J.

32

ROSTER

ROS'l'ER

TEMPLE LODGE, No. 14Sonoma, Sonoma. County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Edward S. Michelssen, Master,
Jesse Franklin Pres, Chaplain, .
24 California St., San Francisco. Ralph E. Murphy, Senior DeacQtl,
Harry Barett Shaw, Senior Warden, Benjamin Bordsow, Junior Deacon,
Frederick Detrick Bose, J. WMden, Samuel Birdslee Lewis, Marshal,
Gustave Henry Hotz, Treasurer,
Adam Winkle Adler, Steward,
Hartley W. Gottenberg, Secretary, Henry Fredrick Bates, Steward,
Sonoma, Cal.
Charles Arad Whitmore, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adler, Adam Winkle
Keechler, Joseph
Akers, Montgomery Paxton
Keller, Schuyler Colfax
Appleton, William Greenleaf
Landgrabe, William Edward
Armstrong, John McKay
Landis, William Alexander
Baer, Bernard
Lewis, Samuel Birdslee, P. M.
Bates, Henry Frederick
Lowell, Frederick Arthur
Benjamin, Orson Clark
MeGimsey, Thomas Jefferson
Bigelow, James Guy Kelly
Miehelsson, Edward B.
Bordson, Benjamin
Montgomery, DeWitt
Bose, Frederick Deteriek
Moore, Oliver Cromwell
Murphy, Ralph Everett
Burris, Jesse, P. M.
Nolan, Walter Charles
Clements, William John
Clewe, William Frederick, P. M.
Pasch, Hyman Lippman
Cordill, Louis Clark
Perkins, Ralph Everett
Dobbel, Frederick William
Peterson, Louis
Duhring, Frederick Thomas
Pinder, Benjamin Franklin
Poppe, Charles Julius
Fochetti, Julius William
Gaige, Albert Ebenezer
Poppe, Robert Albion, P. M.
Gaige, Howard Albert
Potter, Charles Reid
Goethe, William Edward
Quien, Albert Brebner
Gottenberj?. H. Williams, P. M.
Rohrer, John Celestine
Sehocken, Solomon
Harris, Granville Swift
Hart, Ezra Blair
Shaw, Harry Barrett
Hartin, Henry
Simmons, Lloyd Scott
Hill, Robert Potter, P. M.
Stonier, John Henry, Jr.
Hotz, Gustave Henry
Suttenfield, William Thomas
Ingersoll, Charles Swift
Tate, James Franklin, P. M.
Johannsen, Edward Henry
Thompson, Peter Henry
Johnson, Claude Eugene
Thomson, Allen Milo

33

Werner, William Augn11t
Whitlack, Charles Robert
Whitmore, Charles Arad, P . M.
Wood, Otis W.
Wilde, Reinhardt Frederick
-68

Van Amringe, David Ralph
Wagner, Otto Rudolph
Weaver, Albert William, P. M.
Weaver, Frank
Weltz, John

WITHDRAWN:
*Gurnett, William George
DIED:
Rieb, George David
•Degrees conferred during the year.

EUREKA LODGE, No. 16.
Auburn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Arthur Stanley Clegg, Master,
Michael Da\'id Lininger, Chaplain,
Auburn, Cal.
James Simpson Johns, Sen. Deacon,
Albert Joseph Locher, Sm. Warden, Guy Woodhams Brundage, J. Deacon,
Lincoln Buchanan, lut1ior Wardm, J onathan Fulton, Marshal,
Frederick Solon Stevens, Treasurer, Kelly Dunlap Robinson, Steward,
Oscar George Hanchin, Steward,
Christian Frederick Richter, Sec.,
Auburn, Cal.
Arthur Spencer Fleming, Tyler.

Adams, John Benton
Aiken, William Nathaniel
Allen, George E.
Anderson, Albert Wallace
Anderson, Carl Frederick
Anderson, William Craig
Barter, William
Baxter, Joseph Quincey
Bell, George Vincent
Bilkey, Charles Albert
.Bisbee, John Gould, P. M.
Bourne, Ernest Edward
Brundage, Guy Woodhams
Brye, Frederick Emil
Booker, Ernest Oliver

s

MEMBERS:
Borud, Peter
Buchanan, Lincoln
Chamberlain, David Jerome
Clegg, Arthur Stanley
Cohen, Nathan Joseph
Collins, George Pendleton
Curtis, Henry Crittenden, P . M.
Cuthbert, John Alex.
Davis, Guy Wakeman
Disque, Henry, P. M.
Deetkin, Frederick Charles
Eckberg, Peter George
Ereigh, Samuel W illiam
Fay1 George Howarcl
Fitch, Frederick Robert

34

-ROS1'ER

Fleming, Arl1uir Speiic4ir; P: M. • McCann, William John ·
Francis, Everett Allen' ··' • · ' - .r • Mehlman, Herman Werner
Parker~ Ivan Henry
Francis, Joseph ' Breton·· · ... ·1 - ·
-- Prewett, James E.
Francis, Joseph Marie·· ·
Prewett, William James, P. M.
Fo'Jter, Evans · Robie ·
:E>u!Jen, .John Francis
Foster, Jonathan Douglass
'Quire, Joseph Spencer
Fulton, Jonathan, P. M.
·Ray, George Dalton
Fulweiler, John Mathias; P~ M.
Richter, Christian Frederick, P. M.
Geraldson, Gerald
·
:
Robinson,
Alexander Kelley
Grannell, Charles Aldon
Robiniion, Kelley Dunlap
Green, Arthur Reginald ·· ··
Robinson, . Stephan Boutwell
Gum, Elmer Henry
Rooney, Robert Fleming, P. M.
Hallbom, Arthur Olaf
- 'Safford, John Coleman
Hamilton, Charles Oscar, P. M.
Snowden, Edwin Christopher
Hinton, William Ed'\Yar~
Smith, John Lawrenson
Hohfeld, Edward ·
'
Smith, Pearl Thadius
Houchen, Oscar George .\
· Smith, Preston Washington, P. M.
Howe, Alfred· -Thomas' · ' · ·
Shepard, Will Abel
Johns, James Simpson
Stevens, Frederick Solon
Kerr, Walter Lowrie
Stevens, Henry Cushing
Klumpp, "Louis 'Frederick, :P. M.
Stone, Clarence Draper
Larll1ier; Wiiliam Branson ...
Tabor, Ashley Raymond
Lameii.c~, Charles Henry
Taylor, Junius Clifton
Lininger, Michael David,~· M.
Tittle, Horatio Seymore
Locher, Albert Joseph
'l'reverton, James
Locher, Oa·rroll· Degon
Tripp, Frank Leslie
Locher, Edward· William
.
T
uttle, Charles Albion
Lukens, Judson Earl
White, John Miles
Lukens, Lert Lamont
Williams, Albert Moresby
Lukens, Sylvester Guy
Williams, Carlos
·
Marsh, Frederick Tayfor
Williams,
James
Herman
Martin, Peter · rianiel
-96
Williams, Jame!'! ~farshall
May, William Isaac

Glover, Alfred'Kingsley

WITHDRAWN:
Seim, John Hanson
Shane, Ch11-rles Nelson

BOST EB

85

LA PARFAITE UNION LODGE, No. 17.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

Rene Bine, Chaplain,
Brewster Frost Ames, Master,
251 Kearny Street.
Joseph Henry Plante, S en. Deacon,
Marcus White Fredrick, S. Warden, Albert Jules Fobre, Junior Deacon,
Simon Levy, Marshal,
Alfred Gehret, Junior Warden,
Camille Henri Artru, Steward,
Adolph Huguenin, Treasurer,
J oseph Jean Goetz, Steward,
Paul de St. Jullien, Secretary,
108 Sutter Street.
Anatole Lobe, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bollack, Alphonse
Allemand, Jeremie
Bousquet, Alphonse
Allibert, Gustave
Bosquet, Edouard
Ames, Brewster Frost
Bouteiller, Louis Auguste
A.ndichou, Maximin
Bozio, Orlando
Are~s, Jean
Cames, Louis
Artigues, Joseph Emile, P. M.
Campiche, Paul
Artru, Camille Henri
Candevan, Elie
Artru, Henri
Aubin, Auguste Henri
Candevan, Pierre
Auradou, Antoine Leon, P. M.
Chaigneau, Alfred
Champion, Joseph
Auradou, Jules
Baalmann, John Peter
Charpentier, Edouard Leon
Chollet, Henry E.
Babin, Demas Colin
Chovin, Marcel Theophile
Baget, Joseph
Christin, Chas. Alfred
Baggi, Emile
Basenasch, Louis
Clavere, Jean Pierre
Battistessa, Guisseppe
Clerfayt, Jules
Bauchon, Joseph
Compagnon, Archilla
Beleney, George
Coney, Alexander Kaufman, P. M.
Bellegarde, Pascal
Coppa, Guisseppi
Bellocq, Pierre
Cuenin, Emile F.
Bergez, Jean
Dazet, Jean Baptiste
Bertin, Leones Charles
Decourtieux, Amand Xavier
Berton, George Abel
Dehay, Emile
Bine, Rene
Delagnes, Benjamin
Blanquie, Edward
Descombes, Edouard Eli
Blum, Leon
Diebold, Michel E., P. M.
Boisson, Francis
Drayeur, Auguste Constant

36

ROSTER

ROSTEK

Duchein, Eugene
Dupas, Jean Marie, P. M.
Dupuich, Leon Raphael
Eisenberg, Adolphe
Encoyand, Francois
Escude, Gabriel
Escude, Theodore
Esmiol, Adrien
Fabre, Albert Jules
Figeac, Louis
Franck, Isidoree
Fredrick, Marcus White
Gabard, Robert
Garrigues, Andre
Gehret, Alfred
Godchaux, Edmond
Godeau, Jules S.
Goetz, Joseph Jean
Goldaraeena, Orel Martin, P. M.
Goustiaux, Auguste, P . M.
Grandjean, Charles
Greenebaum, Emil
Grothwell, Vietor
Gron, Pierre
Ha:ffemayer, Joseph
Hill, Reuben Charles
Hirsch, Ernest
Hirtzler, Vietor
Hour, Jean Baptis.te
Huguenin, Adolph, P. M.
Huguenin, Henri
Labrueherie, Vincent
Lacaze, Louis
Lacombe, Camille
Lahanier, Camille
Lame, Louis
Lanszweert, Xavier
Laroulandie, Emile
Larque, Albert
Laurens, Auguste
Lenormand, Leon
Lephakis, John
Letroadee, Julien
Levy, Nathan
Levy, Simon

Lille, Charles
Lobe, Anatole
Lobe, Louis
Long, Claude
Mailhebuau, Evariste C.
Marquis, Canac Fernand
Masson, Francois Pierre, P. M.
Metter, Louis
Meuel, Paul E.
Milhan, Gustave
Monaco, Jean Baptiste
Mooser, Charles E.
Mottet, Henri, P. M.
Neuburger, Gustave
Nevraumont, Ernest
Newmark, Mauri<'e
Ortion, AugustP. Joseph Vit'toT
Pagnuelo, Ernest
Palaein, Joseph
Pasquet, Auguste
Penez, Charles E.
Pensa, Joseph
Perrin, Henri Jules
Pestelaeci, Tobia
Peters, Frank
Pfund, Gebhard
Pierron, Emile Joseph
Pinout, Francois
Plante, Joseph Henry
Pommier, Pierre, P. M.
Pontaeq, Joseph
Pottet, Alphonse
Raas, Emmanuel, P. M.
Raggi, James
Ramond, Jules
Redinger, MiehPI
ReiBB, Bernard
Reiss, Emile
Revert, Alphmse
Rimassa, Charles
Robert, Cyprien Pierre
Roncovieri, Louis Alfred
Roumiguiere, Alphonse
Rousseau, Charles M.
Roustan, Jean

Rude, Alexander
Rufener, Louis E.
Sarraille, Pierre
Sehabiague, Arnaud
Sehabiague, Thomas, P. M
Sehinazi, Elias
Seibel, Frederique
Serveau, Emile
Sevilla, Albert
St. Jullien, Paul de
Terramorse, Francois
Terramorse, Francois, Jr.
Thirion, Louis August
Thierry, Auguste

Treyer, Theophile
Van Ander, Beck Charles
Vautier, Fernand
Vergnes, Frederick
V ermeil, Jean Louis
Vialatte, Etienne
Villegia, Leopold
Vinez, Georges
Wagner, Edward Lafayette
Weill, Raphael
Weill, Sylvain
Willard, Joseph Maurice
Willard, Jules
Willard, Leon

37

-174

WITHDRAWN:
Blum, Jacques

Bergerat, Louis

DIED:
l'ievraumont, Joseph

MOUNTAIN SHADE LODGE, No. 18.
Downieville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Eliphalet Lewis Case, Master,
Robert Ballard Davy, Senior Deacon,
Downieville, Cal.
Jason Samuel Frye, Junior Deacon,
William Wickham Casserly, S. W ., John Woessner, Marshal,
Adam Kieffer, Junior Warden,
William Irvin Redding, Steward,
Henry Herman Meyer, Treasurer, George Barrows Morse, Steward,
Henry Edwin Quigley, Secretary,
Thomas Eli Winrod, Tyler.
Downieville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Barrett, John Miles
Forbes, Robert, P. M.
Bettinger, Carl Francis
Frye, Jason Samuel
Case, Eliphalet Lewis, P. M.
Grant, Allan H.
Corbett, David
Hartling, Valentine
Costa, John
Hartling, Valentine, Jr.
Casserly, William Wickham, P. M. Hunnicut, Ezra
Davy, Robert Ballard
Helmet, Vietor Gustaf
Ford, Tirey Lafayette
Kieffer, Adam

!II

ROSTER

Meyer, Henry Herman, P. M.
Morse, Horace Armsby
Morse, George Barrows
Phelps, Fred Irving
Quigley; Henry Edwin
Redding, William Irvin, P. M.
Shafer, John Booth
Shafer, Sheldon Woodruff

Alexander, James Ramsey

Shafer, William Henry, P. M.
Smith, Stanley Andrew, P. M.
Taylor, George Francis
Wagner, Lawrence Neilsen
Wehe, Francis Rumrill, P. M.
Wilson, Charles Martin
Winrod, Thomas Eli, P. M.
-32"
Woessner, John

DIED:
Pauly, Benjamin
Thomas, Henry

SAN JOAQUIN LODGE, No. 19.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Freeman Fraser Black, Master,
Henry John Colberg, S . Deacon,
Stockton, Cal.
Claude Melnotte Gill, Junior Deacon,
Charles Bertram Pearson, S. Ward., James Fitchie Campbell, Marshal,
Daniel Webster Beatie, Jun. Warden, John Antone Kasper, Steward,
Frank Shackelford Boggs, Treas.,
Ernest Albert Simard, Steward,
Isaac Henry Robinson, Secretary,
John Rodney Gleeson, Tyler.
P . 0. Box 388, Stockton, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Ambrose, William Henry ·clay, P. M. Beringer, Benjamin Franklin
Bernardi, Frank
Ames, Ruel Fremont
·
Anton, John Charles
Black, Freeman Fraser
Arndt, Michael S. · ·
Black, George Henri
Boggs, Frank Shackelford
Arnold, Francis Clarence
Bottomley, Charles M·onroe
Austin, John William Williams
Backes, Henry
Bradford, Clark Campbell
Baggett, Winfield Scott, Jr.
Briscoe, Henry Ferguson
Bagley, Daniel, Sr.
Brogan, Thomas William
Brown, George Albert, Jr.
Balta, George
Bargmann, Hermann Conrad, P. M. Burgess, Wilford Harmon
Barnett, Henry Addi~on
Burton, Austin Marshal
Barnickol, William Frederick
Caldwell, Francis Marion
.Barth, William Adam
Campbell, James Fitchie
Beach, Myron Nelson
Campbell, Joy Douglas, P. M.
Beatie, Daniel Webster
Carnduff, Frank Ford

'BOSTER

39

.Elgan, Oliver Dayton .. • ·er.
,.. ••~ .
Carrick, William Edward
...Emerson, Douglas Lee
;' ,.,.,,.::
Carroll, William He11ry
.Ewing, John Worthington ,Dors.ef•'• :;
Cavis, Joseph William, P. M .
Farabee, Thomas Jackson •:•·· . : "~··;;
Chalmers, Alexander, P. M.
Farnsworth, Clovis Alonzo ._,r.:. '"·"'";
Chalmers, Peter John
Finnell, Michael, P. M.
.;· .l .. 111';1·:
Chandler, Walter Leroy
Fithian, Robert Woods
- '.i ... . , .,~ i.
Chapman, Fred Willis
Frankenheimer, Louis Heney
Chase, Aquilla Daniel
Fredericks, Frank Henry
Chase, George Walker
• .,.:... 1:: •
.Frerichs,. Simeon. J~
Chesnutwood, William Hartzell
.;.
•• H .•.: •
. Friedberger, William
Chichester, James Harvey
Fuller, Harry Reuben
.-HI". ..•:.• .. .- ..
Chosson, Justin Noel
Fussell, George
Christie, Frederic Charles
. Gaines, Francis Alber,t.
Clark, Fred Pope
Garrison, Noel Hunt,, P. M. ·• · ~"'· ' ·
Clark, Henry Isaac
Garwood, John
,;
'··.·
Coates, James York
.· .
Gerdes, Herman Edward.
Cobb, Frank Dyckman
Gerdes, Robert Anton
" : .. .
Cobb, John Patton
... . .,.,_,
Gibbens, Edwar.d Lewis
Colberg, Henry John
Gill, Claude Meln9.tte
. . ",
Coleman, Elmer Davidson
Gilman, Charles Wolcot
::.i.: . · 1
Cole, Hilliard Roblin
·Gleeson, John Rodn~y
.,, "· .:
Congdon, Edward Philip
Glick, Henry
..... ·'
Craig, James Burr
Goode, Benjamin Franklin, ,P. M~ .. !-',
Cramer, Edward Ernest
Goodell, George
.. .... .
Culver, Gilbert Caleb
.. ,. " ·" ~
Goodrum,. Eugene F.
Danner, Lewellyn Alexander
Goodrum, Frank Wilson 1 P. M • .. ., .. ,.j
Darby, Frank Erwin, P. M.
··' >.!~ ~
Davidson, Adelbert Williams, P. M. Grider, John Carson
..
., ;1
Davies, William Abraham, P. G. M. Griffin, Leo Paul
Grose,
Edward
Emil
.
~
.
..::
, ••
Davis, Edward Carl
Groves, Frederick William .C.
'""· '· "
Davis, Gilbert Garrie, P. M.
Groves, Robert Henry
:1 -.· '· , ,,
Deardorff, Edward Samuel
Hale, Elvin Myne.tt .:
. ·•-''.<
DeGuire, George Washington
Hammond, Howard
"" ~
DeVriee, William Garland
Hammond, Robert Ray
,.. ,., •
Dickinson, Clarence Leroy
Harrington, Arnold Arnie ·.
! . ..- 1
Dickinson, Everett Clarence
.Harrill, Edward ]'ranklin
._ , _,.·., ;, ~
Donald, Alfred Francis
Harter, Glen Georg.e
,<•.:..:.
Donati, Henry
Hatch,
Charles
Edward
-~ .. ~ ~
Doran, Richard Emmett
Ha yen, Henry _
i
, : , ' !.
Dozier, Wm. Gillard
Henderson, Rob!)i:t William.
,., . 1 !
Draper, Albert Nelson
· . ·. J.
Dunbar, Sylvanus Gilman S., P. M. .Henery, George Porter
Highland, Jamee Robert •
·, . .-.. i.
Earle, Richard Thomae, P. M.
Hillman, John Smail
.- •. !.
Eichelberger, Archibald B.
. .Hogan, Walter Byron '/ _,.,,,;.,.,: ~.- ~
E icke, Dana Perkins

..

~:

40
Howser, William Willard
Hubbard, Ferdinand Bradley
Hudson, Charles Edward
Hughes, Edward Le Roy
Huntington,. Edward T.
Hurlbut, Daniel Bradley
Hynes, Charles Parnell
Inglis, Robert
Inglis, William Eiehelberger
Jackson, Charles Moses, P. M.
Jacobs, Alfred
Jenkins, John Harvey
Johnson,. Edwin Samuel
Johnson. William Russell
Jones, Charles Judithan
Kasper, J ·o hn Anton
Keonedy, Franklin Hayes
Kincaid, Fred Llewellyn
Kinnear, James Williard
Kirby, William Don
Klench, Daniel Lewis
Kroeckel, George
Kroyer, John Minor
Laggas, John
Lang, Roscoe Alfred
Langdon, Samuel Walter Ross
Levinsky, Albert Leonard
Lewis, Edwin
Lewis, John Thomas
Lorenz, William Henry
Lund, Andrew John
Lynch, Willis
Lynn, James William
Mallett, Albert
Mann, Rot:>ert Ernest
Mantele, Con
Maschek, Charles Hermann
Matteson, John Joshua
Maxey, John D.
McCown, William Evans
McGill, William Henry
McKain, Fred J., P. M.
McLaren, John Cameron
McLeod, John H.
McNaught, William

ROSTER
Meyerink, George Albrecht
Miller, Charles Warren, P. M.
Miller, Frank B., P. M.
Moore, George Franklin
Moore, John Williams
Moore, Royal T.
Morris, William Elda
Morrison, Edwin Crane
Newell, James Henry
Oldham, Walter Thomas
Oliver, John Edward
Ors1\hler, Henry Mathias
Owen, Charles Edward
Owen, Henry Dorrance
Owings, George Spencer
Parkinson, Oscar Bronson
Payne, David Rolland
Pearce, George H.
Pearson, Charles .Bertram
Perry, John Mario4
Petzinger, ·Casper Rudolf
Petzinger, William Christopher
Phelps, Joseph Larose
Philo, Arthur De Witt
Pinkerton, James Wortley
Pollard, Fred Albert, P. M.
Porter, Stephen Jerome
Pullen, Edward John
Putnam, George Clinton
Quail, Frank Eugene
Quisenberry, Robert Lee
Rea, Frank Elmore
Rhoads, Samuel Finley
Rhoads, William Jacob
Richards, William Henry
Riddell, John Everett
Riseden, William
Robinson, Isaac Henry, P. M.
Roche, Peter John
Rogers, Charley Oscar
Root, Vernon Thomas
Rothenbush, Car! Herman
Ruggles, John Everett
Sander, Louis Frank
Sather, Andrew Theo.

ROSTER
Schlichtman, Claus, Jr.
Scofield, Francis Herbert
Scullen, John Fish
Shelford, Charles Vincent
Shirley, Walter Joseph
Simard, Ernest Albert
Simpson, William McPayne
Sink, Reuben Henry, P. M.
Smallfield, Albert Augustus
Smith, Arthur David
Smith, Frank Hartford, P. M.
Smith, Richard Russell
Smith, Walter Alex
Snell, George Hinman
Southwell, John Henry Sleeth
Spare, Edwin Garber
Sperry, George Barker
Spurrier, Sherman Merriam
Stephenson, John Franklin
Stewart, Carlyle Ernest
Stewart, James Alpheus
Stocker, Walter Wrightman
Stone, Edward Roger
Stone, Ralph Todd
Stone, William Henry
Strong, Percy Morton
Stroup, Randolph Clinton
Sutherland, George Wesley
Swain, John Anderson
Tandrow, James Andrew
Tarr, Florence William
Tatterson, George Watson
Tatterson, Arthur Potter
Taylor, Charles Albert
Taylor, Herbert Vaughn

Thomas, Henry James
Thomas, William Bacon
Tillinghast, Joseph Henry
Tucker, Charles Francis
Twitr.hings, James Edgar, Jr.
Tyner, Charles Gordon
Vance, Charles Albert
Viebrock, Francis John
Vilhauer, Herbert Jacob
Wakefield, Clark Gardner
Walker, Cleveland King
Wall, Wilber C.
Wallace, Benjamin Carpenter
Weaver, Leroy Albert
Westbay, William Wesley
White, Kellogg Albert
Wilcox, Ralph Eugene, P. M.
Willard, George Allen, Jr.
Williams, John P.
Williams, Robert Timothy
Williams, Edwin Henry
Williams, Walter Scott
Willis, Herbert Quillen
Wood, William Walter
Woodhull, Willie B.
Woods, Alfred Blakeley
Woods, Claude Emery
Woods, Ezekiel William S.
Wyman, Bernice A.
Yost, Frederick John
Young, Daniel McLeod
Youngblood, Homer Roy
Zeimer, Irving Scott
Zitlan, August J:imes

WITHDRAWN:
Eley, George Samuel Barnard
Stites, Joseph Augustus
Henery, Sa muel

41

DIED:
Thresher, Minord Sprague
Weston, Charles Royce

-281

42

ROSTER

ROSTER

WASHINGTON LODGE, No.

20.

Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Henry Lindemeyer, Master,
John Jeremiah Evans, Chaplain,
1131 T St., Sacramento, Cal.
Frank Lawson Milne, Sen. Deacon,
Frank Jacob Bock, Senior Warden, Milton James Ferguson, Jun. Deacon,
Mahlon E. Waldren, Junior Warden, Clyde Horace Brown, llforshal,
Benjamin Huntington Gallup, Treas., Eugene Bernard Dobbas, Steward,
John Scott, Secretary,
Walter L. Carl Dosch, Steward,
Masonic Hall, Sacramento, Cal.
George B. Herr, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Clark, Charles
Anderson, Alden
Cohn, Aloysius Sylvester
Ankener, Fred 'k Augustus
Conran, Ira Milton
Arbogast, Jacob Lewie
Davis, Herman J.
Arnold, Henry Waldeck
Dobbas, Eugene Bernard
Ashworth, Edward Fletcher
Dolan, John Henry, P. M.
Avery, Ira
Dosch, Walter Rudolph Carl
Bates, Albert
Dunbar, Marcus William
Betz, Fred 'k Hurbert
Duden, Ellsworth Frederick, P. M.
Block, Maurice
Ebert, George Ernest, P. M.
Bock, Frank Jacob
Edinger, Frank Austin
Bock, George, P. M.
Elkus, Albert
Booth, Albert Porch
Ellie, David Gregory
Boyd, Joseph Charles
Estes, Robert Lee
Bonell, Roy Garfield
Evans, John Jeremiah
Brauer, Herman Obet
Ferguson, Milton James
Brenner, Louis Frederick
Folger, Albert Gilbert
Breuner, John
Gallup, Benjamin Huntington
Brown, Alfred James
Gay, Remus Upton, P. M.
Brown, Orla Francie
Gardner, Charles Francis
Brown, Clyde Horace, P. M.
Gerber, Edwin Henry
Burrows, William Grant
Gerber, William Emil, P. M.
Busch, John
Gillie, Dugald Hall
BurgeBB, George Washington
Ginsberg, Jacob
Campbell, Alden Wilson
Girdner, Henry Tutt
Campbell, Wa_lter William
Gostick, George Abram
Campbell, William Richard
Gostick, Jess David
Chapman, Lawrence Heilman
Grau, Herman William H.
Chittenden, Charles Joseph
· Christiansen, Thomas Henry, P. M. Grider, Frederick Wilhelm, P. M.

Gruhler, Jacob
Heide, Robert
Heilbron, Adolph
Hemmings, Edward Charles
Hendricks, William Chalmers
Hickman, Frank
Hurley, John
Heisen, Charles, Jr., P. M.
Herr, George Benjamin
Jackle, William Mathew
Jacobs, Julius Samuel
Johnson, Frank
Johnson, Hiram Warren
Johnson, Presley Beauregard, P. M.
Johnson, Phillip, P. M.
Kieseel, Frederick William, P. M.
Kestler, Frederick Henry
Kleinsorge, Charles Edward
KluneJ John Bernard
Kolliker, Frederick
King, Charles Sumner
Kieseeg, Harry Richard
Keene, Albert Edward
Labadie, Johµ Gibson, P. M.
Lancaster, Frank W.
Lau, Henry August Frank
Lindenmeyer, John Henry
Littlefield, Nathan Forrest
Luce, John Coar.hman
Lund, J ohII. Peter
Lykens, Preston Lodwick, l'. M.
Maslin, Prentiss
Maughmer, Carl
McAdam, John Wardell
McArthur, James Corrigan
McDonald, Roy Lee
McDonnell, Clarence H.
McKee, Charles Bradford
McKee, Edwin Henry
McKillip, Charles William
McKinnon, John Jenkins, P. M.
McKissick, Robertson Topp
Menken, Peter Heinrich
Merkeley, Robert Anderson

43

Merrell, George Walter
Miller, John Henry
Milne, Frank Lawson
Monnday, Harry
Morrow, Arthur Leland
Mullin, Norman Anthony
Nash, Earl Lyon
Nathan, Henry Michael
Needham, Irving McAdam
Newman, Peter Blaine
Ochsner, John
Peart, Edmund Franchville
Peltier, George Wilfred .
Pfund, Edward Franklin
Philbrick, Harold
Phillipe, Charles A very
Pipher, Joseph Elmer
Popert, James Carl
Potter, William Alfred, P. M.
Putnam, George Prescott
Potter, Robert Grant
Prideau, Edwin
Putnam, George Alfred
Robertson, Angus John
Robertson, Charles C.
Rosebrough, Thomae Bert
Royster, William Alexander
Sayre, William Abner, P. M.
Schoenbackler, Charles
Schwilk, Charles Frederick
Stanton, John Edward
Stillwell, Arthur Marriott
Straub, John
Silvius, Herman Theodore, P. M.
Scott, John
Steinman, Emil
Tibbetts, Thomas Rush
Trueblood, Albert Allen
Wachhorst, Eugene Stewart
Waldren, Mahlon E.
Wenzell, George Elwood
West, Frederick Winiam
Wheat, Jamee Montford
Wickler, Jay Clarence

ROSTER

ROSTER

44
Willey, William Henry Harrison
Wilson, Jesse Franklin
Wood, Henry Clay

Cochrane, William
Jones, Clarence Desmond

Wright, Charles Edward
Yardley, Herbert Edward
Young, John Nelles, P. M.

-152

DIED:
Madden, Jerome
Greer, Erskine

HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 21.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James Russell M. MacI,ean, Master, William Ault, Chaplain,
Honolulu, T. H.
Irwin Spaulding, Senior Deacon,
Harry Christian Bruns, S. Warden, James Louzada Friel, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Caverhill Shields,/. Warden, Harry Hiileialii Holt, Marshal,
Love Moller Vetlesen, Treasurer,
Bernard Frank Beardmore, Steward,
Kenneth R. G. Wallace, Secretary, Edmund Francis Hugh Mcfanphy, S.,
Thomas Henry Hughes, Tyler.
Box 408, Honolulu, T. H.

Abadie, Jean
Abrams, Loµis
Ahrens, August
Alexander, William Douglas
Allerton, Charles Henry
Alvarez, Louis Fernandez
Anderson, David William
Arleigh, Augustus Bickel
Armstrong, Frank Hopkins
Arnold, Lewis Edwin
Ashley, William George
Ault, William
Austin, Herbert Clark
Barnes, Albert
Bartlett, Charles Garfield
Bartlett, Paul Robinson
Batchelor, Frank Augustus
Batchelor, Job
Beal, Charles Ladd
Beardmore, Bernard Frank
Berry, James Francis

MEMBERS:
Bodge, Edward Ellis
Boyd, James Harbottle
Boyd, Joseph Thompson
Boyd, William Wright
Boyer, Frank Orville
Bretteville, Anton Christopher E.
Brink, Harry Steck
Bromley, Walter Hall
Brown, Edward Cook
Brown, George Watson
Bruhn, Bernhard
Bruns, Harry Christian
Buchly, Rudolf Johannes
Budde, Theodor August C.
Burniston, Harry James
Burns, John Edward
Campbell, Charies Jerome
Campbell, Herbert Moody
Campbell, John Thomas
Campbell, Marston
Campbell, William Henry

Cartwright, Bruce, Jr.
Catton, Robert
Chalmers, George, Jr.
Child, John Francis
Clarke, John Kirkwood
Cleghorn, Percy T. P.
Coke, James Leslie
Conant, Elmer Ellsworth
Cook, Frank Beach
Cooley, Alfred Ernest
Cottrell, Charles Boutelle
Cooper, Charles Bryant
Counter, Moses Ruby
Coyne, Arthur
Crabbe, Clarence Linden
Craig, John Henry
Crane, Charles Spencer
Crozier, Charles
Cummings, James Henry, Jr.
Cunha, Emanuel Silveria
Curtis, George Beaston
Damon, Frederick Beckwith
Davidson, James Douglas
Deering, Augustus
Dekum, Edward
Derby, Albert Jones, P. M.
Dickey, Charles William
Dougherty, James Donohue
Douglas, David
Dow, Herbert Manchester
Dunshee, Herbert
Douthitt, Edward Alex.
Dyson, James
Eames, Alfred Warner, Jr.
Ewart, George Robert
Ewart, George Robert, Jr.
Falk, Charles Jacob
Falls, Moor Nelson
Farnsworth, George Howe
Farnsworth, John
Faye, Hans Peter
Fernandez, Abraham
Fiddes, James Hall
Foster, Henry Whitman
Foster, William Edward

Francis, John Wilson
Frazee, William Lincoln
French, John Scott
French, Joseph, Jr.
Friel, James Louzada
Game, Clyffard
Gedge, Norman Edward, P. M.
Giffard, Harold Brickwood
Giffard, Walter Montais
Gorman, James Aylward
Goudie, Frederick
Graham, William Montrose, P. M.
liray, Harry Scott, P. M.
Gregory, James
Greig, George Bicknell
Greig, Norman
Grindell, Herbert Joseph
Grossman, Mose Edmund, P. M.
Gurrey, Alfred Richard
Hair, Robert, l:'. M.
Hall, Charles Sumner, P. M.
Halliday, Percy William
Halstead, Edgar
Halstead, Frank
Hamilton, James Edgerton
Hapai, Henry Chase
Harding, Lewis Lomax
Harrison, Arthur
Harrison, Vincent Marmaduke
Hedemann, Johannes Christian
Heilbron, William
Heinemann, George
Henderson, Lew George
Herrick, Charles Frederick
Heye, Karl Werner
High, Clifford Bell
Hjorth, Johan L. V.
Hocking, Alfred
Hofgaard, Christopher Blom
Hoffmann, Theodore
Holloway, Carl Sheldon
Holmes, Andrew
Holt, Bertram Griggs, Jr.
Holt, John Dominis
Holtz, Albert Louie

45

46

ROSTER

Horswill, Charles Arthur
Mackintosh, Cecil Arthur
Howatt, James College P., P. M. MacLean, James Russell Mac. R.
Hughes, Edwin
Mac Rae, David
Hughes, Henry Thomas
Marcallino, Antonio Quilho
Marcallino, John
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Hyman, Joseph
Marquez, Charles Nicholas
Irwin, Chester .
Marques, Joseph Dores
Isenberg, Daniel Paul Rice .
Melanphy, Edmund Francis H.
James, Frank Leicester
Melanphy, John
Johnson, Henry Stuart
Monsarrat, James M., P. M.
Jones, John Griffiths
Morton, Henry Chesney
Jones, John Walter
Myhre, Arthur Halfdan
Jones, Raymond William
Myhre, Halvor
Jorgensen, Jorgen
Myers, Jackson Randolph
Jungelaus, Alfred Henry
McClellan, James
Kaiser, Carl
McKeague, Robert Alexander
Kershner, James Wales
McKee, William Barron
Kent, Donald Calvin
McKinnon, Joseph Malcolm
King, Louis Churchill
McLean, Chas. Raymond
King, Thomas James
. McNally, Charles Henry
Kruger, Frank Julius
McNamarra, David Arthur
Kruss, Emil Louis
McVeigh, John DeVive
Lando, Jacob
Muller, John Julius
Langeheim, Ernest
Nase, Barnabus Tilton
Lansing Theodore F.
Naylor, James Alfred Anderson
Lamach, Alexander D.
Neill, John, P. M.
Laws, Henry
Newman, Bradford Norton
Levingston, Isador
Nicolai, Gustav
Lewers, Robert
Noble, Arthur C.
Lewis, Abraham, Jr., P. M.
Nugent, Fred Rockwell
Lewis, Freilerick Mar.t in
Oldenborg, Martin
Lewis, Edgar Louis
Olsson, Otto William
Lishman, Thomas Walker
Omsted, Olaf
Little, Joseph Musgrave, P. M.
Oram, Alfred John
Logan, Arthur Conning
Orbell, Frank
Lord, Edmund Joseph
Ouderkirk, John
Lowrie, William James
Parker, Samuel
Lucas, John
Paxson, Sumner Swisher
Lundh, Hans Jacob
Pedgrift, James Henry
Lydecker, Robert Colfax
Penhallow, Henry Balch
Lyons, Moses Timothy
Petersen, William Niclai
Macconel, James Murray
Petrie, Lester
Macintyre, Donald
Phillips, Mannie
Mackinnon, John Marr
Podmore, Robert Wooil.
Mackintosh, Alexander, P. M.
Polmere, Nicholas John

ROSTER
Pope, Willis Thomas
Porter, Kirk Bancroft
Porter, Thomas Sherman
Pratt, Alexander·
Pratt, James William
Purdy, Hiram
Ramsay, Samuel Robert
Rankin, Guy Fawkes
Rawlins, William Thomas, P. M.
Raymond, James Harvey
Read, Decker Jewett
Reedy, Ray B.
Renton, Henry Herbert
Rice, William Henry
Richardson, Frank Edward
Richter, Arthur
Rieks, Franz Heinrich Ludwig
Riley; William Russel
Robinson, Mark Prever
Rodiek, Georg Friedrich
Rolph, George Morrison
Rothwell, John George, P. M.
Rowat, Allan Ritchie
Sachs, Nathaniel Sanders
Schaefer, Frederick August
Schieber, Anton
Schoening, Chas. Julius
Scheening, Compus Mentis
Schroeder, Walter Henry
Scott, Oliver Chamberlain
Shaw, Walter Edward
Schlemmer, Maximilian
Schmidt, Franz Theodor
Schroeder, Heinrich August
Searle, John Bursnell
Searle, John Cooper
Shields, Walter Caverhill
Siebecker, William Henry
Simpson, Edmund Trew
Simpson, Hester Stephen
Sinclair, Archibald Neil
Singlehurst, William Gibson
Smiddy, Jerome Joseph
Smith, Cornelius Wells

4'1

Smith, Frederic Carlos
Smith, Thomas
Soper, John Harris; P. M.
Southworth, Edward :A.
Spalding, Edward Irwin, P. M.
Spalding, Irwin
St. John-Gilbert, Oswald
Stokes, John Francis Gray
Stolz, Frederico Leupold
Sutherland, James
Swan, Edmund
Taylor, Henry Albert, P. M.
Thayer, Wade Warren ·
Thompson, Frank Edward, P. M.
Tracy, Clifton Howard
Tripp, Alfred Newton
Tucker, Joshua Daniel, P. M.
Venhuizen, John
Vetlesen, Love Moller, P. M.
Von Damm, Bertram
Waggoner, Bernard
Wagner, George Julius
Walker, Hugh Hobron
Walker, Samuel Allen
Waldron, John William
Wall, Alford Clarence
Wall, Arthur Frederick
Wall, Thomas Edward
Wallace, Kenneth Robert G.
Ward, George Edward
Waterman, Emil Joseph
Watkins, Norman
Wells, William Ira
Whitehouse, Louis Mein
Whitney, Frederick, P. M.
Wilder, Gerrit Parmile
Wilder, Arthur Ashford
Wilder, James Austin
Willgeroth, Heinrich
Williams, Charles
Wood, Clifford Brown
Wootten, Henry George
Young, N orval Beam

-309

48

ROSTER
ROSTER

Bidgood, St. Clair
Davidson, Robert Norton

WITHpRAWN:
*Henningsen, Max Carl Hana
Willard, John David
Wolf, Lee H.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Buckley, Peter
Campbell, Chandler
Coxhead, Albert Edward
Mackall, Bruce McVean
Pfluger, Henry Christian

Bindt, Frederick Nartyn
Dart, Elbert Ripley

DIED:
Hewitt, George Clinton
Mcintyre, Hugh Edward

•Degrees conferred during the year.

OCCIDENTAL LODGE, No. 22.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each munth.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

Herman Fowler Wilson, Master,
George. Edward Kammerer, S. D.,
Monadnock Bldg.
Frederick William Nish, J. Deacon,
Charles Patterson Fonda, S . Warden, William Charles Ast, Marshal,
Martin Anton Schmidlin, J. W ard., David Porter Vail, Steward,
Charles Lyman Haskell, Treasurer, Lew Walter Spriggs, SteW<Jrd,
Walter Godfrey Anderson, S ecretary, George Theodore Fischer, Tyler.
3665 Clay Street.
MEMBERS:
Ayers, Willis Henry
Ahlborn, Charles Joseph Henry
Babb, Harry Ruben
"Allen, John Stevenson
Babbler, Norman Ancell
Anderson, Antone Carl
Backus, Samuel Woolsey, P. M.
Anderson, John Theo. Francis
Bailey, Lewie Hamilton
Anderson, Walter Godfrey
Baker, Frank Elmer
Anderson, Winslow
Baldwin, Murray
Anthony, LeRoy Warfield
Baldwin, Orville Charles, P. M.
Arnold, Henry Augustus
Barber, George Brinton
Ashworth, Frank Parker
Barlage, William Andrew
Ast, Jacob Frederick
Barnes, James John
Ast, William Charles
Barnett, John Felix
Atwood, William Amoe

49

Barrows, Ray Kipp
Bush, William John
Bauer, Christopher John
Buttle, William Frederick
Beadle, Alfred William
.Byrne, Charles Francis
Beard, Joseph Charles
Cameron, John
Bebb, Joseph Criepia
Campbell, Robert Willis
Beckett, John
Campe, Henry Magnee
Beesey, Edmond
Cappelmann, John Christian
Beede, Alexander Creighton
Carson, Robert Neddermark
Belden, Dan Falls
Center, George Lillie
Bell, Henry James Clark
Chapman, Edward Kirk
Bender, Paul August
Chapman, Frank
Bennett, John
Chapman, Fre<ierick York
Berry, William Robert
Chesebrough, Andronicue
Beatty, Henry Nixon
Chesebrough, Heney. Clay
Bishop, Roy N elso_
Cherry, Edward Martin .
Black, Robert C.
Chipman, William Farragut
.. ;
Blakeslee, Frederick AlphoJl.80
Christensen, John Peter
Blanton, John S.
Clark, Edwin Charles
BliBB, Charles
Classen, John William
Boeckman, Frederick Charles
(,'laweon, Harry Russell
Bogen, Harry Walter
Clawson, Sani.uel-Henry, P. M.
Boody, William Ezekiel
Olayes, Wellington Irwin
Bouton, William Egbert
Clemons, Christian Jensen·
Bradford, Wallace
Clow, John Austin
Brinkman, August Frederick
Cochran, Hugh McCauley
Brittan, William Giles
Cole, John Richard
Broderson, George Chri11tian
Collins, Frederick RicharJ
Bronson, Frithjoy
Collins, George William
Brown, Andrew Alexander
Collins, Richard Merithew
Brown, Amazon Henry
Comely, Charles John
Brown, Harry Daniel
Cooper, Frederick Flanders
Browne, Christopher Robert, P. M. Cookson,· William Bonsall
.Brownell, James Samuel
Countryman, Robert Harmer, P. M.
Bruer, Ernest Adrian
Crane, Henry Adolphus
Brunner, Henry
CreBBey, Frank Albert
Bryan, William Vose, P. M.
Crookshank, Arthur Henry
Buckbee, Spencer Cone
Crossley, L eonard Valentine
Buckmann, H enry Diedrick
Crow, Lloyd Benjamin
Bullock, John Henry
· Curtis, Charles Mosses
Bullock, Rues Ransom
Cutting, Henry Colman
Bullock, Thomas Seamon
Daggett, Almore Keith
Bultman, John Henry
Daggett, William Albertis
Burner, Henry, P. M.
Damon, Marshall Nye
Burridge, Walter Joseph
Davidson, Joseph Robertson
4

50

ROSTER

Da.vis, Richard D.
Davis, William Winters
Deahl, John Linden
Dean, Walter Edwin
Decker, Peter
DeLano, Frank M.
Delger, Edward Frederick, P. M.
De Long, Maurice Gordon
Denniston, Edward Gere
Derby, Albert Tirrell
DeBilva, Manuel Maria
Devlin, Thomas Daren
Deyl, William Carl
Dillmann, George Paul
Dittman, Richard William
Dole, Walter Wooderson
Dow, George Alva
Downes, C. S.
Drendell, Albert Ernest
Drew, George Warren, P. M.
Drown, William Benjamin
Dryden, Henry Francis
Dryselius, Erland
Duebel, Charles
Dugan, Herbert Frank
Dunn, Ritchie Livingston
Durbrow, Harry
Dusinbury, John Benjamin
Eadon, William Henry, Jr.
Eastman, Thomas Freeman
Edwards, Dwight
Edwards, Eugene Hammond
Edwards, William
Elvin, Arthur
Eva, William John
Ewen, John Sangster
Ewing, Samuel McGregor
]'agan, Harold James
Faymonville, Bernard
Feldmann, Walter Henry
Ferguson, Oscar Henry
1',iehl, Alfred Bishop
Field, Frederick Howard
Fischer, George Theodore
Fitzsimmons, James Calvin

ROSTER

Fletcher, Walter Kimball, p·. M.
Flockton, Berkeley Chas.
Fonda, Charles Patterson
Fpnda, Henry Stuart
Fonda, Walter Gibbs
Forrest, Fran'c Hamilton
Foulkes, Edward William
Fraser, William Edward
Freyer, Edward
Frost, Robert Henry
Frye, John Winslow
Gabbs, Milton Francis
Gable, Herbert Aaron
Gage, William Stebbins
Galla.gher, John Pa.trick
Gamble, Edward Lee
Gedge, Harry Edward
Gina.ca, Henry Gabriel
Gleavt>s, James Malcolm, P. M.
Glidden, William Boardman
Goldstein, Ludwig
Gompertz, Charles William
Gonzalez, Felix Francisco
Gordon, Charles Ely
Gordon, Phil Kearney
Graham, William Sutphen
Grannis, Frederick Roscoe .
Graupner, Adolphus Ehrhardt
Gray, William Brown
Green, Jonathan
Groat, Charles Frazier
Growall, Willard Lawrence
Grundy, Edmond
Gunn, Benjamin McKay
Gunn, John Wm.
Hageman, Robert
Hall, Milton Rider
Hall, Otto Norris
Halloran, Joseph Francis
Halloran, Arthur Hobart, P. M.
Halverson, Christian
Hambleton, William Lawrence
Hammersmith, John Anthony
Hand, Edgar Dickson
Hannan, David

.

Hansen, C. Theodore
Howard, Albert Louis
Hanson, Peter Hjalmar
Howell, Edgar Henry
Hanson, William Henry
Humphreys, William Penn
Harding, Ralph Judd
Hunter, Charles Harris
Hardy, Sumner
Huse, Charles Gammon
Harker, Oliver Albert
Hutchinson, Charles Francis
Harmes, John Theodore
Hutton, Andrew Houston
Harpham, Lee Wheeler
!sham, John Henry
Harris, Jerome Omberson
Iversen, Chester Arthur
Hart, Marcus
Ives, George Isaacs
Harville, Benjamin Franklin
Jackson, Stanley
Haseman, Henry
Jacobson, John Falls
Haskell, Charles Lyman, P. M.
Jagger, Henry Corbett, Jr.
Haste, Julius Alexander
Jaynes, Frank
Hastings, Philip
Jenks, George Henry, P. M.
Hatfield, Arthur George
Jensen, Harry Christian
Haver, Philip John
Jensen, John William Ditlef
Haviside, John Joseph
.Johnson, Petter Henry
Havner, James Randall
Joly, Oscar Joseph
Hawkins, Edward Kendrick
Jones, William Stewart
Henderson, John Wesley
Kaehler, George Alfred Ernest
Hendy, John Harris
Kahl, Charles Wesley
Hentrich, Lewis Valentine Bernard Kains, Archibald
Heidt, Wesley
Kammerer, George Edward
Hewitt, Edward Thomas
Kay, Oliver Wesley
Hewitt, William Alexander
Kellogg, Frank Harvey
Hewson, Herbert Lester
Kellogg, Paul Frank
Heyer, Charles William
Kerr, James Watt
Hickman, Newton Heylin
Keyes, Frank Hancock
Higgins, James
King, Charles Andrew
Higgins, Rufus Milton
King, Louis Daniel
Hillyer, Curtis
Kinney, Marshall Johnson
Hindes, Edward Brooks
Kirk, Albert Wellington
Hink, Frederick Benjamin
Kirsch, George Hans
Hobart, Ralph Willis
Kittredge, Spencer Bigelow
Hodghead, David Alexander
Klarmann; George
Holbrook, Charles Henry, Jr.
Klein, Louis J.
Holmes, Howard Carlton
Klimm, Frank Joseph
Holton, Luther Janna
Klitgaard, Chris Fred I'f.
Rolson, John Edward
Klumpp, Otto Henry
Hopps, George Arthur
Kuechler, Henry Norbury
Horne, Charles Henry
Kuippenberg, Frank Rudolph
Hornschuch, Lawrence Charles
Kuippenberg, George Ernest
Houseworth, Frederick Arthur, P. M. Korts, Benjamin Frederick
Houseworth, Harrison
Lackmann, Ernest Angust

51

52
Laekmann, John Chris D'h
Ladewig, Arthur Edward
Lamp, Charles Joachin
Large, Charles Franklin
Landis, Edward Caspar, P. M.
Lanfare, Clair Ford
Larsen, Anton Ludvig
Larsen, Bengt. John
Laurence, Arthur Cornwall
Lauritzen, Hans Peter
Leavitt, Albion Eastman
Leavitt, William Cowles
Lee, Albert Edward
Lee, Francis Valentine T.
Lee, Roy Abraham
Lee, William Grant
Leeman, Edgar Wilson
Leggat, William Alexander
Lehmers, Frederick Emil
Lewald, Harry Archie
Lewis, Frank Rodman
Lilienthal, Ernest Ruben
Little, Matthew Alex.
Loeksteadt, Louis
Long, Herbert Clifton
Loose, Charles John
Low, George Beanston
Low, Josiah Orme
Lundy, Aaron Linton
Macarthur, Newbern Turner
Macbeth, Frank David
Macdonald, William, P. M .
Mace, Lewis Sayrie
Mackall, Benjamin Franklin
MaeManus, Walter F.
Mallott, Watson Howard
Mauch, Herbert Andrew
Marsh, Louis Eugene
Marshall, George Gordon Earl
Martens, Hermann
Mathis, Theophilus Smith
Martin, Alexander
Mathey, Robert Henry
McArthur, Willie D.
MeCahon, George

ROSTER

ROSTER
Mccurdy, Marcy
McCullough, John Summons
McDowell, Archibald Eugene
McEwen, John Jardine
McGahey, Robert James, Jr.
McGowan, Frank
McGowan, George Arden
MeKinlay, James
McMahon, Cal. Clarke
MeMurtry, Ralph Bertram
MeNutt, William Fletcher .
MeNutt, William Fletcher, Jr.
MeRoskey, Edward Lawrence
MeRoskey, Leonard Henry
Merrill, Elijah Bedding
Merrill, Hqraee Eugene
Mierdierks, William Augustus
Miles, David Edwin, P. M.
Miller, Charles Nicholas
Miller, Joseph Aloia
Miller, Richard Elgin
Miller, Thurlow Sprague
Miller, William Henry
Miller, William S.
Mills, John Swinburne
Mitchell, Edward Henry
Mitchell, William Edwin
Moebus, Fred. William Gue., P. M.
Moffatt, Walter Lindsay
Mohrig, Edwin Chas., Jr.
Moore, Avard Joseph
Morrison, Charles John
Morse, Albert Garrish
Morgenstern, Alfred Louis
Muller, Otto Bernhard
Murphy, Charles Henry, P. M.
Myers, Robert Carling
Mylehreest, Howard Quayle
Nagle, Alfred John
Newell, Eben Pool
Newman, Robert Edwin
Newman, William
Nish, Fred 'k Wm.
Norrie, John Roosevelt
Oakley, Edward David

Olsen, Alfred
Olsen, Frederick Henry
Orcutt, William Henry
Osborn, Russell Wight
Osbor11e, James Stuart
Osmunn, William Finley H.
Outsen, Arthur Charles
Outsen, James Bunt
Ozias, Chas. Walter
.Packham, Thomas George
Page, Frank William
Parker, Byron Cameron
Pattison, Charles Frederick
Penn, Charles Samuel
Penniman, Charles Wood
Pernau, Henry Frank
Peters, John Frederick Fran Ir
Peters, William
Peterson, Frank Baltzer
Petersen, N es Peter
Pfeiffer, William Frederick
Phelps, Frederick Tracy
Philbrick, Everett David
Philbrick, Walter Jacob
Phillips, Robert Bonsall
Plummer, Walter Allen
Poss, Frederick Henry
Pratt, Othello Curtis
Pratt, Zenas Campbell
Prellberg, Charles William
Prior, Clark Churchill
Purdy, John Elbridge. P. 11!1
Purlenky, George Carl
Quimby, Leon Shirley
Radovich, Bozo
Raisch, Fred
Rees, William John
Richards, Melvin Francis
Richards, Stephen Henry
Richardson, Walter Scott
Read, Emerson Worrell
Robertson, John Harvey
Robinson, Arthur
Robson, Chas. Edgar
Rogers, John Baxter

Rogers, William Augustus
Rohlffs, Walter Vogt
Rohrhand, Charles William
Romaine, William
Root, George Washington
Rosenau, Frank Leopold
Rosengarn, John Herman
Rumpf, Frank Joseph
Russ, Henry Stanford
Sage, Orlando Gustavus
Saleh, George Charles
Samuels, Wm. Trimmer
Sanborn, William David
Savage, Michael Joseph, P. M.
Seheffauer, Walter Aloysius
Sehieek, Charles Henry
Sehieek, John Charles
Sehinneller, John Harold
Schmidlin, Martin Antone
Schmidt, Herman August Theodore
Schnoor, Charles Otto ·
Schreiber, William Au. Martin
Schwerin, Henry William
Scott, Clarence Sydney
Scott, George Mearns
Scott, Shailer MacKintosh
Seiferd, James Frederick
Severs, Ernest Davies ·
Shanabrook, William Stark
Sharp, James Cohen
Sharpe, Edwin Clinton
Sherman, Frank Potter
Sherman, Roger
Shields, Frank Duncan
Sidwell, Dallas Jacob
Simpson, Henry Robert
Skinner, John Charles
Sleeper, Charles
Sloan, Albert Bevard
Smith, Francie William
Smith, Grant Ward
Smith, James Jerome
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, William
Snedaker, William Harvey

53

54

ROSTER

ROSTER

Snook, James Athearn, P. M.
Sonne, George Peter
Sorenson, Charles Mads
Southard, Carroll 0 'Brien
Spotswood, William James
Spriggs, Leon Walter
Squires, George DeForrest
Squires, Robert DeForrest
Stauffacher, Charle., William
Steiger, Louis A.
Stewart, Brandon
Stewart, Charles Alex. ·
Taylor, Howard Prentice, Jr.
T 'Beck, William
Terwilliger, Newton Clark
Thaler, Conrad Henry
'fhomas, Edward Jennings, P. M.
Thompson, Joseph
Thompson, Peter
Thornton, Bruce Patrick
Tibbey, Frederick Milton
Tilton, Robert Fletcher
Tourney, George
'l'rampleasure, Thomas Edward
Travis, Edward Charles
Trevor, Henry
Tucker, Edwin Stanley
Turner, Allison Howard
Turner, George Webster
Tyrrell, John Rowland
Tyson, Mitchell
Tyson, Robert James
Uglow, Arthur Whitburn
Ulrich, John Alvin
Vail, Robert Raymond, P. M.
Van Court, DeWitt Carroll
Vail, David Porter
Vandercook, Albert Emerson
Van Winkle, Pierre S., Jr.
Venable, Joseph Gibbon
Volkhardt, Frederick August
Vradenburg, Preston Hickok
Walker, Walter Gilbert

Wallace, John H.
Waller, Charles Waite
Ward, John Emmett, Jr.
Warren, William True
Watkins, William Hartley
Webster, Henry John
Webster, John Henry
Weeden, Henry Frank
Wefring, John Gust
Weller, Charles Hoskins
Wells, Robert Huntington
West, Frank A.
Westerman, Bernard
Wetjen, Cord
White, Jerome Baker
White, Roy Samuel
Wilcox, William Darius
Willett, Walter 'Marinus
Williams, Charles Henry
Williams, Charles Frederick
Williams, Oscar
Williams, William Alfred
Wilson, Boyd Lee
Wilson, Charles Woodworth
Wilson, Herman Fowler
Wilson, Horace Alvadoor
Wilson, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Wilson, Perley Harry La Vall
Wimmer, George Washington
Winter, Rudolph Magnus
Winterburn, Joseph
Wise, Robert Alma
Wise, Thomas Clark
Wiswell, Edward Smith
Wood, Floyd Humphrey
Wright, George Judson
Wrinkle, Ellery
Wrinkle, George Scott
Wrinkle, Noah
Woodlock, John, P. M.
Young, Harry Somen
Youngren, John Oscar

-557

55

WITHDRAWN:
DeGrear, Warren .Jackson
Clift, Charles Warren
Evans, Albert 8.
Day, Charles Thurber
Johnstone, Ernest Lionel K.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.:
Lovejoy, Joh~ Hinton
Upton, Thomas Bennett

Hopps, Harry Ryle

EXPELLED:
Poland, Wallace Jerome

Derby, John
J:<'rench, Wheeler Nichols
Geary, William
Gibbs, Nathan Henry
Harding, David Webster
Kelly, Richard Edwards
King, George Rufus

DIED:
Merrill, James William
Miller, William Penn
Prior, John Lewis
Quinn, William Henry
Russell, Lawrence Greenleaf
Scott, Walter Day
8uter, Daniel

MADISON LODGE, No. 23.
Grass Valley, Nevada County.

··-' l

.. -,-

Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Edwards, Chaplain.
John Davey, Master,
Samuel Joseph Whiting, S. Deacon,
Grass Valley, Cal.
William John Peters, Sen. Warden, James Jenkin Rowe, Junior Deacon,
Harry Libby Body, Junior Warden, Bennet Opie, Marshal,
Thomas Milton Harris, Stc~uard,
Thomas Ingram, Treasurer,
Walter Marshall Matteson, St.eward,
William David Harris, Secretary,
Richard Caddy, Ty.fer.
Grass Valley, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Armstrong, William Isiah
Aver, Frank, P. M.
Bartell, J oserh
Bennallack, Joseph
Berrimau, William Samuel
Body, Harry J,ibby

Andrews, James
Angove, Arthur Melbourne
Angove, Jeremiah
Argall, Matthew Henry
Argall, Matthew Whilkin, P .• M.
Argall, William John

56

Body, William Christopher Dart
Brockington, Charles Aaron
Caddy, Richard
Campbell, George
Care, Thomas John
Chambers, David Stanley
()happell, George Edward
Clinch, Charles Edward
Coll.in, Oscar Lewis
Coleman, John Crisp, P. M.
Coombe, William, P. M.
Cooper, Arthur
Cory, John Sanborn
Cowling, William
Daniels, Henry
Davey, John, P. M.
Davies, David
Dorsey, Samuel Packwood
Drake, Raymond L.
Ducotey, Frank
Dunstan, William
Edwards, William, P. 1111.
Evans, Thomas
Frank, Robert John
Fuchp, Carl Henry
Fuchs, George Henry
George, Richard Henry
"1-'!<1!'1'e, Albert Grant
Gill, Arthur Lyonel
Glasson, John, P. M.
Glasson, Lester Gordon
Granger, Samuel
Grenfell, Clarence Bertes
Grenfell, William John
Green, Henry
Griffin, George
Haas, Isidor
Hattam, Joseph
Hawthorne, Loyet Ashley
Henwood, Joseph
Hicks, John
Harris, Elmer Mills
Harris, William David
Harris, Thomas Milton
Hooper, James

ROSTER

ROSTER
Hosking, Albert James
Hutchins, Robert Jewett
Ingram, Thomas, P. M.
Jenkins, Wm. T.
Johns, George Wallis ·
Johnston, Peter
Jenkins, Alfred
Jenkins, Jabez Arthur
Johns, James Andrew
Jones, George Louis, P. M.
Jon'es, John Taylor
Jones, Robert
Kemp, John Charles
Kemp, Lorin William
Kinsman, Alfred
Kohler, Theodore A.
Leatham, John Tonkin
Larue, Lloyd Palmer
Maddrill, Charles Edward
Maddrill, James Henry
Magor, Ellsworth
Martin, William Philip
Matteson, David Edwin
Matteson, Edwin Stanley
Matteson, Walter Marshall
Michell, Clifton Wesley
Michell, Paul Wesley, P. M.
Michell, Thomas John, P. M.
Miller, Fred Manning
Northway, John
Nettle, Charles Henry
Nicholas, Isaac
Opie, Bennett, P. M.
Othet, Bert Wesley
Othet, Charles Frnnklin
Pascoe, John Henry
Peterson, Andrew Gustaf
Prisk, William Frederick
Prisk, Charles Henry
Prisk, Henry
Peters, William John
Richards, Edward Ingram
Roberti:, John Edward
Rodgers, Chas. Earl
Rogers, William James

Root, Orville Hurd,
Rowe, ·James Jenkin
Sears, Paul Stickney
Skewes, Henry Burton
Sleep, William Albert
Smith, Charles B.
Southcott, William Henry
Stein, Isinor
Stoddard, George Hill
Thomas, Frederick J amea
Thomu, John
Thomas, John, Jr.
Thomas, John Richards
'J.'homas, William
Tremoureux, Roy Eugene

57

Trewren, George Charles
Trotter, George Thomas
Tyrrell, James C.
Utley, Charles Alva
Vincent, George
Walker, Henry Rollo
Walter, Henry Penrow
Werry, John
Whiting, Samuel Joseph
Williams, Joseph Edward
Williams, William Charles
Winn, William
Zaph, Carl H.
Zipf, John Philip
-131

WITHDRAWN:
Dawson, Isaac
. SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Condy, Herbert Richards
Lord, William Goyne

Curnow, William
Coleman, Edwards

DIED:
Peers, Joseph
Williams, William Henry

MARIPOSA LODGE, No. 2+
Mariposa, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding F1ill Moon.
OFFICERS:

Frank H. B. Catherwood, Master, Samuel H . Ferguson, Senior Deacon,
J erseydale, Cal.
Thomas Ferguson, Junior Deacon,
James P. McElligott, S en. Warden, Fred W. Schlageter, Marshal,
Charles L. Boothe, Junior W arden, Walter S. Farnsworth, Steward,
F red T. Schlageter, Steward,
James Barnett, Treasurer,
Thomas Farnsworth, Tyler.
Frank A. Bondshu, Secretary,
Mariposa, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Boothe, Charles Lemon
Austin, Henry Clay
Bragdon, Asa Barnum
Barnett, James
Brice, William Manuel
Bennett, Frederick Lee, P. M.
Carleton, H enry Ma thew
Bondshu, Frank Albert

ROSTER

58

Catherwood, Frank H. B.
Clark, Joseph
Cronin, Timothy Joseph
Craighan, James Duffy, P. M.
Champion, Stephen James
Clow, Nelson Lawrenee
Dullenty, Edward
Dunn, James Neil
Edwards, William Charles
Estes, Thomas Henry
Farnsworth, Thomas MeCready
Farnsworth, Walter Seott
Ferguson, Samuel Hiles
Ferguson, Thomas James
Foley, Daniel Joseph
Gibbs, Carl Seott
Gilbert, James Arthur
Herbeek, Frank Leslie
Johns, Samuel Joseph, P. M.
Johns, Trevenen James
Jenkins, Riehard May

Calvin, William H.

Kinehen, Peter
Kenny, George Martin Franeis
Kylberg, Larentiue Adam C.H., P. M.
Lind, Carl Gustaf, Jr.
Ludwig, John Daniel
MeEIIigott, James Patriek, P. M.
MeLean, John Leonard
MeLeod, John
Minor, Harry Everett
Niee, George Ernest
Sehlageter, Frederiek Temple
Sehlageter, Frederiek William, P. llrL
Sehilling, Frederiek
Sharp, Lewis Walter
Towers, James Howard
Trabueco, Frank .Thomas
Trethew·a y, John Thomas
Trewin, Peter
Wallingford, Frank L.
'Wason, Edward Putnam, P. M .
Westfall, Charles K.
-50

WITHDRAWN:
Hawkins, W. D.

GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25.

ROST Eh
Curry, Clifford Demoin
Dains, Benjamin J.
Diehl, Sandford David, P. M.
Dotti, Lodovico
Gordon, John Cummings
Grover, Harry Morris, P. M.
·Grover, Orrin Scripture
Grover, Walter Nevada
Grant, George Lincoln
Glasson, Josiah
Hickman, William Simpson, P. M.
Hamilton, John Sidney
Hayden, Asia Thurston
Jauch, Walter Christian
Jerrett, Charles Edward, P. M.
Jerrett, Herman Daniel, P. M.
Johns, John
Johnson, Christopher G.
Langley, Charles Hilton
Lawyer, Frank Wilber
Lazansky, Bernhard
DobbllS', Herbert B.

Lovejoy, Thatcher Townsend
Martin, Herbert Sargent, P. M.
Presby, Alvin° Moore, P. M.
Priestley, Wilford Ernest
Peters, Benjamin Leon
Rau, George Charles
Rodetti, Franeiseo
Rupley, Charles J.
Schulse, Chas.
Shepherd, Benjamin Franklin
Sturman, Sidney Grant
Stevenson, Thomas
Swift, Isaac Grinnell, P. M.
Walk, James Francis
Wade, John, P. M.
Ware, John Adrian
White, Albert Clarence
White, Louis, P. M.
Wickander, Victor Hugo
Wood, William James
--51

WITHDRAWN:
Goodall, Daniel F.
DIED:
Heuser, George Henry

Georgetown, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Walter Nevada Grover, Master,
William Henry Bryson, Sen. Deacon,
Georgetown, Cal.
Charles Joseph Rupley, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Edward Jerrett, S. Warden, Louis White, Marshal,
Robert Henry Allen, Junior Warden, Samuel Wesley Collins, Steward,
William Simpson Hickman, Treas., Frank Wilber Lawyer, Steward,
Isaac Grinnell Swift, Secretary,
J ames Francis Walk, Tyler.
Georgetown, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Breck; Charles Remerick
Allen, Robert Henry
Bryson, William Henry
Beattie, Christopher
•Beattie, William G.
Buckman, William Alvin, P. M.
Benjamin, Clinton Elisha
Collins, Samuel Wesley
Cozard, Oscar Al.
Barbee, Charles Platt

I

1

59

PALMYRA LODGE, No. 26.
Placerville, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Otto Elymis Newcomb, Master,
Louis Adam Reeg, Chaplain,
Placerville, Cal.
Joseph Fulton McKee, Sen. Deacon,
Oscar Plank Fitch, Senillr Warden, Charles Rayburn, Junior Deacon,
William Fred~ric Bray, J. Warden, Don H. Goodrich, Marshal,
Shelley Inch, Treasurer,
.
Al!>ert Simon, Steward,
Charles Henry W eatherwax, Sec., Thomas Fielding Lewis, Steward,
Placerville, Cal.
John Pascoe, Tyler.

60

ROSTER
MEMBERS:

Alderson, Richard
Cleese, John Peter
Alderson, Stephen Thomas
Cole, George Thomas
Cole, Henry Angus
Allen, Henry Francis
Allen, John Page
Collins, Walter Eugene, P. M.
Allen, William Lutter
Combellack, William Hill
Arnot, Nathaniel Dubois
Combellack, William Herbert
Ashcroft, Henry
Cooper, William
Atwood, Theodore Charles, P. M. Cote, Phileas
Baele, Martin
Creighton, James Samuel
Ball, Albert
Creighton, James William
Banning, Andrew Course
Culbertson, Frank Andrew
Barkley, James
Curran, Valentine
Baer, Max
DeCordy, John
Bares, Frederick Ferdinand, P. M. Daniels, Lee
Beach, Seth Gibbs, P. M.
Duff, Charles Joseph
Beal, Ray Carroll
Duncan, Albert Henry
Bechtel, Warren A,
Dunton, Charles Henry
Blair, James Blackwood
Dart, George Charles
Blair, John McFarland
Davis, Edward .Albert
Blair, Robert
Day, John Martin
Blair, Robert William
Day, Robert Newton
Blair, Roy Whitefield
Dennison, Harry Talbot
Blakeley, Auburn James
Duden, William Calvin
Blakeley, George Lincoln
Ewert, Emil
Bland, William
Fisher, Frederick William
Board, James
Fitch, Oscar Plank
Bosquet, Dallas Archibald
Fox, Albert Sherman
Bray, William Frederic
Franklin, Jphn Henry
Brooks, Adam
Frick, Walter Paul
Brown, William Marcellus
Gasper, Thomas James
Burger, Charles Murray
Gee, Frederick William, P. M
Burnham, George Huntington, P. M;Geiger, William Louis
Butts, Lowery Taylor
Greeley, Albert Henry
Campini, James Girlocomo
Gruben, Bernard
Campini, James WillU~m
Goodrich, Don H., P. M.
Campini, Joseph Albert
Hand, Charles Edward
Cain, Lemuel Barnett
Hardie, Thomas Oswald
Carpenter, Albert Bert
Heisser, Joseph
Carr, Daniel George
Henderson, Alexander Duncan
Celio, Carlo Gueseppe
Hiuffman, George Benjamin
Claibourne, Robert King, P. M.
Hofmeister, George
Clark, George Murray
Hogan, John Keeler
Clark, Thomas
Hogan, Philip Barringer

ROSTER
Hughes, Marshall
Hungerford, Frank Mason
Inch, Shelley, Br., P. M.
Inch, Shelley 0., Jr.
Jones, Adial Sabin
Jones, John Charles
Juckes, Thomas Patrick
Kincaid, George Henry
Kirk, William Sherman
Koletzke, Arthur James, P. M.
Kohn, Nathan Leopold
La Rue, John Samuel
Lewis, Thomas Feilding, P. M.
Limpinsel, John Frederick
Mack, George Franklin, P. M.
MacKenzie, William Ernest
MacLeod, Wm. Alex.
Macomber, David Wheeler. P. M.
Mann, Oscar Arthur
Martin, Frederick Co11-rier
Martin, Fred Michael
Mauk, George Washington
McAfee, Alexander Lewis
McCarty, Thomas Emmett
McCommas, Francis Marion
McCoy, William Augustus
McKay, James Alfred
McKee, Joseph Fulton
McLaughlin, James Michael, P. M.
McMillan, John Prat
Meehan, Marcellus Quintin
Mienon, Max, P. M.
Miller, John Wesley
Miller, Walter Elmer, P. M.
Morey, Edward Lea, P. M.
Morey, Frank Henry
Morey, Henry Sylvester
Morton, Oliver Leonard
Mund, Frank
Murray, Thomas Aloyious
Neighbor, Jacob Lyman
Newcomb, Otto Elymis
Olms1.ead, Sheldon Patterson
Owen, Joseph Frederick
Ortman, Fred

Pascoe, John
Patterson, Robert Pagan, P. M.
Pearson, John, P. M.
Pearson, William Rose, P. M.
Peters, Clarence Edward
Pierroze, Ferdinand
Pinneo, Oscar Elgin
Plummer, Howard Clark
Price, William Eugene
Raffetto, Frank
Ra:ffetto, John Augustus
Rantz, Stephen Hester, P. M.
Rantz, William Addison
Rayburn, Charles
Richards, Charles Thomas
Richards, James
Richards, William James
Reeg, Louis Adam, P. M.
Rolleri, George Charles
Roblee, Oscar
Routledge, William Henry
Rupley, John Bernard
Rupley, Theodore
Rushmer, Clifi'ora Barnes
Sands, Jesse ,
Schieber, Louis John
Schroeder, Carl Herman
Scott, Elmer Livenstone
Sheldon, Henry Bradley
Simon, Albert, P. M.
Simon, David Samuel
Simon, Frank Edwin
Smith, Edward Lamar
Smith, John Adam '
Stark, Garrett William
Stinson, William Harrison
Streeter, George Washington
Btrachauer, Edward Harrel
Sumner, William Henry
Swisler, Charles Albert
Tacchino, Vincenzo
Tracy, Henry Hardie
Tracy, Perry Spencer
Ure, George Murray
Volkman, Alfred Arthur

61

BOSTER

ROST El:

62

Weyman, William
Whitney, James Palache
Whittier, William Jeremiah
Wiley, John James
Wilkin, Fred L.
Wilson, Stephen Britton
Wires, Albert Melville
Witmer, Elam Washington
Young, Perly Andrew

Van Voorhies, Ralph Josiah
Varozza, Giaeomo
Varozza, Marco
Waters, John Nicholls
Wa~t, Peter
Weatherwax:, Charles Henry
Webb, Jean Francis, Jr.
Werntz, Gabriel
Weymouth, Stephen James

Cook, Earl Lewis

-194

WITHDRAWN:
Perryman, Frederick William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Jones, William Albion
Boyd, Thomae Parker
Littlepage, Julius Brown
Harris, Richard Corey

Coffin, Oliver

DIED:
Kyser, James Peter
Maye} , Michael

Edwards, William Rose
Fetzer, Albert John
Fields, David Blackstone
Flagg, Jacob Redding
Gehm, George Frederick
Given, Horace Robert
Goetze, Henry William
Goetze, William Adolph
Goodyear, Charles Eugene
Haas, David Washington
Haas, Otto Bismark
Haifley, Frederick Huston
Hall, Henry Maurice
Hansen, Detlef, P. M.
Hays, Hiram Bennett
Hupp, James Wiley
Hupp, William Irving, P. M.
Hollingsworth, Frank Orville
Leyrer, George Edward
Lowden, Henry Larkin, P. M.
Leonard, Henry William
Mason, John Clifton, P. M.
McDonald, Robert Emmet

TRINITY LODGE, No. 27.
Weaverville, Trinity County.
Stated Meetings, last Saturday of each month.

63

McGilleoray, Joseph
Meckel, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Meckel, John Weinheimer
Mortimer, Washington
Mox:on, Clarence Hector
Paulsen, Albert Lincoln
Paulsen, Arthur Edwin
Paulsen, Charles
Paulsen, Henry William
Paulsen, Peter Minert
Reed, Benjamin Hayden
Shuford, John William
Smith, Jeremiah
Testy, Wm. Bernard
Tourtellotte, Jesse Francis
Van Matre, George
Van Matre, John Chandler
Vollmers, William
Wilson, Chas. Samuel
Wilson, James
Young, William Ware
Zarli1 Frederick

-59
DIED:

Dimock, Frank L eslie

H aas, Frederick, Gotlieb

OFFICERS:
Charles E ugene Goodyear, Master, Charles A rthur Paulsen, Chaplain,
W eaverville, Cal.
Henry Larkin Lowden, S en. Deacon,
William Bernard Testy, S en. War., William Ware Young, Jun. Deacon,
George Frederick Gehm, Jun. War., Robert Lee Carter, Marshal,
J esse Francis Troutellotte, Treas., ·J ohn William Shufo rd, Steward,
Betlef Hansen, S ecretary,
Otto Bismark H ass, Steward,
W eaverville, Cal.
John Henry Bremer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackerman, John Quincy, P. M.
Barnickel, Bernard
Box, Reuben ;preston
Brady, Morrie Augustus
Bremer, John Henry
Bremer, August Frederick
Brown, B owyer Brockenbrough

Burr, Huber
Carr, George James
Carter, Robert Lee, P. M.
Chamberlain, Clarence Adelbert
Cummings, Robert Fulton
Dannenbrink, William Frederick
Davis, Griffith T.

GOLDEN GATE LODGE, No. 30.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month,
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
Richard James Harvey F orbes,
William W allace Thompson, Chap.,
1052 Monadnock Bldg.
Robert Wentworth Dewar, S . Vea.,
Lester Adam Blair, S en. W arden, David H ugh Burson, Junior Deacon, ·
William Peter Caubu, J. Warden,
Oscar R obert Waldemar Krenz, M.,
Charles Augustus W egener, Treas., Edward Courtenay C. Wellesley, S~,
E dwin Lewis Meyer, S ecretary,
George Herman Dannemark, Stew.,
53 Webster Street.
H orace F rederick T ower, Tyler.

M.;

64

ROSTER

ROSTER
MEMBERS:

Ackerman, Charles Herman
Birdsall, Ward
Adams, Fred Thomas
Bjick, Paul Robert, P. M.
Adcock, Charles Edmund
Blair, Lester Adam
Agard, William Antoine Todd, P. M.Bla~eway, John Henry
Ahlquist, Frans Wik tar
Bleie, John Arneson
Aigeltinger Edward Hugo
Blyth, Henry, Jr.
Airey, Rob~rt Joseph, P. M.
Blyth, William John
Aitken James
Bolger, James
Albert~, Carl
Bolio, Atilio Peter
Allen Joseph William Everett
Born, Ernest Otto
Allis;n, Thomas Sydney
Born, Julius Adolph Theodore
Ambler, Ben, Jr.
Bl'ackett, George Francis
Andersen, Charles
Bradic, Frank
Anderson Andrew
Brady, Edward Robert
Anderson: Carl
Breckenridge, William Jamieaon
Anderson, J!'rederick
Bronaugh, Frank Marshall
Anderson Harvey Derious
Brown, Horace Bernard
An:derson' Herman
Brown, Sidney Thomas
Anderson' Kenneth Pendleton
Browne, William James
Anderson' Roy Robert
Brumfield, William Cleney
Andrews,' Lewis Titcomb
Brunig, Robert
Armes, George Arthur
Brust, Joseph Peter
Arnold, Fred Thomas
Bullock, Fred Duncan
Aspe John William
Bundesen, Boy
Atki~son, John Robert
Burnham, Francis Mortimer
Baar, James Lausen
Burson, David Hugh
Cairns, John Thorburn
B kus Charles
ac
'
.
G'l
Bain, Robel't Thurston
Canney, Frederick i. mor~
Baird, Frederick Guernsey
Cantin, Alexander Aimwc
Baker, John Saunders
Cantley, James
Barnes, Joshua Daniel
Carlsen, Axel Theodore
Beardsley, Edwin Willis
Carlson! Otto Wilhelm
Beaulieu Ezra
Carnegie, John
Beck John Elof
Carr, Jesse Willis
.Beck~tt Hugh Reid
Case, Edwin Loekwood
Benedict, Guy Montgomery
Caubu, William Peter
Bennett, James Henry
Chapman, Walter Scott
Bensen', Sigurd
Christia'!!, Caesar
Berg, Gustave
Clark, George Dickson
Bergman, Adolph
Clarke, Samuel Andrews, P . M.
Berkowitz, Alexander
Clayton, Charles Eli
Bernhard, John
Cobby, John Wilmott
Birchall, Joseph Mara
Collins, William Webb

1

Compagnon, Fred Peter, Jr.
Eastwick, Philip Garrett, Jr.
Cook, Aaron
Eberhard, David Franklin •
Cook, Benjamin Franklin
Eggerstedt, William
Cook, Philip Henry
Elliott, Hamilton Scholes
Cooke, Mac Duff
Everding, John
Copeland, William
l<'ake, George John
Cosgrave, John Paul
.Falconer, Eugene Gardinel'
Coulter, George Bartley
Fisher, Albert George
Craig, David John
Fisher, Owen Frank
Craig, Theodore Leonidas
Flagler, Amasa Plummer, P. M.
Craig, William Henry
Flanery, Thomas Franklin
Cramer, Martin Luther
Fogalsang, Thomas Edwin
Cumming, Joseph Moore
Fogerty, Joseph
Cunningham, Harry Louis
Foord, James
Dabe!, Richard
Forbes, Richard James Harvey
Daggett, John
Foster, William Sinclair
Dahl, Charles William
Fredericksen, Hans Rasmus
Dahl, John Martin
Freese, Harry Francis
Dahlquist, John
Freese, Herman
Dahlstedt, Adrian Frithiof
Freese, Joseph Christian
Damkroeger, Daniel August
Fritschi, Alfred Rudolph
Danielson, Eric
.
Fullerton, Darwin Phelps
Dannemark, George Herman
Furman, Lawrence Magnus
Davidson, Henry Wood Johnston
Gale, Maurice Armand
Davies, John Henry
Galvin, James Francis
Davis, John Fletcher
Gardiner, William George
Deans, William
Garratt, Benjamin Franklin
Deardoff, Wilham Edgar
Garrick, Walter James
DeCew, Thomas Leslie
Genereaux, Victor Henri
Deckert, Max Ernest
Gilberd, Frederick Murray
Deegan, John Joseph
Gilmour, John Alan
DeLamare, August Jacques
Glass, John Wesley
DeLisle, Raymond ].'rank
Glidden, Arthur Lee
Dewar, Robert Wentworth
Glunz, John Benjamin
Dickieson, James Edward
Goddard, George Henry
Dickson, William
Good, Richard
Dormer, John Monteith
Goodall, Harry Walter
Dorward, David, Jr.
Gorham, Henry Franklin
Doughty, Charles John
Graham, John Neil
Dreyer, Walter William
Gray, Madison Lee
Duebel, Charles August
Green, John Frederick
Duncan, William Cluff
Greene, Watson Hatch
Dnnne, Francis Henry
Grubb, Joseph Richards
Earle, Slade Anthony, P. M.
Guderley, Paul
5

65

ROSTER
Guptill, Charles 13axter
Guthrie, James ·
Hague, Charles John
Haley, Franklin Raymond, P. M.
Haley, Harry
Hamilton, Charles John
Hammond, Frank
Hammond, Hugh William
Hanell, William
Hansen, George J orgen
Hansen, Henry Ansker
Hansen, Ole Mehrten
Haviside, John Joseph, Jr.
Hawes, Talton
Ilayes, ·William Thornton
Hedley, John
Hein, Theodore Hansen
Helbig, John
Henderson, Harry Milne
Henderson, Thomas Ray
Henrix, Edward
Herdal, George Johannasen
Hermansson, Charles Adolf
Hernan, Michael Howard
Herrington, Howard
Hetty, Julius Finck
Heuer, August Ferdinand, P. M.
Hildebranrl, Henry Bernhard
Hilsenberg, Kurt Hans
Hilton, James
Hodgkinson, Albert Thomas
Hoffman, _Robert Ogden
Hoffmann, William Henry
Hofinghoff, Walter Alexander
Holm, Louis Robert
Holman, William Lewis
Holmes, Paul Henry
Holt, Harry Raymond
Horgan, Cornelius John
Howell, Edward Henry
Hubbard, Charles
Hubbell, Leroy Samuel
Hulings, Burton Fisher
Humphreys, James Holroyd, P. M.
Hunsicker, Jeremiah Emanuel

Hunter, Thomae
Hutchins, Day Selden
Hyvarinen, John W alfrid
Jackson, Andrew Fletcher
Jackson, John Farren
Jacobsen, Niels
J eneen, Neile Peter
Johnsen, Laurita
Johnson, Abraham Wallace
Johnson, Edward Theodor
Jones, Cliff Lowell
Jones, Thomas
Jordan, Frank Dana
Jorgensen, Carl Johan Emil
Jorgensen, Jorgen Michael
Julius, John Michael
Karstensen, John
Kelso, John Odin Christian
Kent, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Kindt, Albert Fred 'k
King, Arthur Clyde
Kingston, James Jervis
Kitchen, John, Jr.
Kitchen, William Mortimer
Klein, Frederick
Knief, George Ernest
Koch, Wehner August
Koffold, Peter Mathias
Korner, George Henry
Krenz, Oscar Robert Waldemar
Kyle, Abraham
Lagomarsino, Louis Andrew
Laing, Robert
Lange, William
Langstaff, William John
Lann, Oscar
Larsen, John Ludwig
Larson, Claus August
LeGal, Clarence Lindsay
Leonard, Francis Joseph
Leonard, John Buck
Leslie, Andrew Thomas
Levach, Alexander
Lindberg, Knut Willhelm
Linsley, William Edward

ROSTER
Little, George Edward
Little, James Edgar
Littlefield, Frank Peters
Long, Joseph Rice
Louw, Henry Andrew
Luebbert, Fred 'k Johan
Luhrs, Carl Augu·st
Luhrs, Elmo Kro~e
Ludwig, Anton John
Lund, Soren Sorensen
Lutticken, Louis John
Lutz, Charles August
Macdon11:ld, Theodore Hall, P. M.
Mackintosh, William Crawford
Macondray, Robert Arthur
MacFarlane, Neil
MacMillen, Robert Samuel
Marisch, Frank Paul
Martin, Robert Elmer Ellsworth
Mason, Will Dodge
Matthai, Frederick William
Mccaw, Anthony
Mccaw, Thomas Scandrett
McClelland, John
McClemente, John
Mcclung, Albert Ernest
McConnell, Gibson
McCulloch, John Edward
McDonald, Patrick Alexander
McElroy, Joseph Francis
McGarrity, Donald Dennie
McGrath, Edward
Mcintosh, Lachlan
McKay, David McPherson
McKinnon, Norman
McKinnon, William Wilson
McLeod, Angus
McMillan, · California Charles
McNally, Frank Lawrence
MeNally, James Joseph
McPherson, John Murdoch
Mearns, Frank William
Mearns, Jamee
Mendler, Charles
Mengel, Albert Louie

Menke, Harry John Louis
Merrill, Albert Henry
Meyer, Edwin Lewis, P. M.
Michaelis, Julius
Mikkelsen, Christen Peter
Miller, George Raymond
Miller, John Henry
Moller, Erdmann Leopold
Montecchini, Mario
Montell, Edgar Henderson
Montell, Henry Hamilton
Morgan, Alva Harcourt
Morgan, Elisha
Morgan, Hamilton
Moross, Thomas Victor
Morris, Edward Thomas
Mueh, Walter George
Muirhead, John Scott
Munro, Alexander Duncan
Munson, Nicholas Frederick
Murrell, John James Guy
Naghel, Louis Henry
Neubarth, John Julius
Nicol, Thomas Matthew
NicQ}l, Alexander
Nielsen, Christian Wilhelm
Noonan, John Hayes
Nopander, Louis Nicolas
Norton, Charles Franklin
Nygran, Anton William
Odgers, Joseph Ernest
Olson, John Petter
Otzen, George
Owens, Robert Clogher
Palmer, George Franklin
Parks, Charles LaSalle, P. M.
Parks, John
Parks, Rollie River
Parks, Yuba River
Patterson, James, P. M.
Patterson, John Fargo
Paulson, John Nicholas
Pa.yne, Redmond Wellington
Pearson, Albert
Pedersen, Theodor Alexander

G7

68

ROSTER
ROSTER

Pelton, Hazlitt Lee
Schiitter, George Alexander
Pennington, Thomas
Schmidt, Christian Peter
Perry, Harry Guy
Schmidt, Edw8l'd
Peters, Joseph Vincent
Schmidt, Karl Christian
Petersen, Gustav Hermann Christian Schulken, Albert Edward
Petersen, Jacob
Schulken, Walter Herbert
Peterson, Carl Harvey
Schuur, John Henry
Peterson, Fritz
Schwab, Edwin
Phelps, Asa Hosmer, P . .M.
Scoby, John Carl
Phelps, Frank Augustus
Seagrave, John Carpe!lter
Phillips, Robert Pleace
Semple, Hewson Cox
Pinkerton, James l:l.enry
Shade, Widenbam Daniel Cuthbert
Pratt, Augustus David
Shaw, Stephen Browne
Prince, Fred Munro
Sherman, Frank Bentz
Puckett, George Robel't
Siem, Cornelius
Putnam, Kingman Buford
Siesbuttel, Alexander
Putz, Armand
Silvia, William Collons
Quinby, Alfred
Simmie, Albert Tait
Raabe, Leonhardt Stangle
Simmo11s, Benjamin Cromwell
Ravn, Niels Peter
Simmons, Samuel Darrow
Reed, Henry
Skoonberg, Arthur Edwin
Reese, Evan Leander
Smith, Charles William
Reinbold, Bruno Richard
Smith, Heary
Renwick, Charles Almon
Smith, John Henry
Rice, Peter Christian
Smith, Robert Neil
Ripperdan, Oswell Tboma11
Smith, Walter Henry
Roberts, Adelbert Even
Smith, William John
Robertson, George
Smith, William Magnus ·
Robertson, William Milue
Smith, William Wands
Robinson, Charles
Bobst, Adolph Martin
Robinson, Richard Gregory
Sorensen, Albert Henry
Robinson," Victor Hugh
Sorensen, Emil
Roeder, August Edwart
Sorensen, James Andersen
Rogers, Randall
Sorensen, Soren Marius
Rose, Charles Hugh
Southard, Frank David
Rousseau, Oliver Marion
Stark, David
Ruling, Charles
Strandberg, Charles
Rulfs, Theodore Eberhard
Streather, James George
Rushton, Alfred Job.a
Stroecker, George Leopold
Rushton, Frederick Arthur
Struve, Henry Knighton
Salvesen, Reier
Stryker, Charles Walter
Sampson, William Ashford
Stuart, Frank Hayden
Sanches, Gardner Gilman
Stuhr, Wallace Edgar
Sanders, William Rickard
Sullivan, Abraham Sinclair, P. M.
Saxe, Robert Edward
Sutherland, John William Mitchell

69

Tanner, Carl Eugene
Washburn, George Benj. McClelland
'faylor, Pa11fhal Blackwell
Watson, Harry
Teall, Edwarl Oliver
Weed, Mark Dye
Thomas, William
Weeden, George Arnold
Thompson, Frank Webster
Wegener, Charles Augustua, P. M.
Thompson, William Wallace, P. M. Weikert, Clarence Edgar
Thomsen, Halfdan Crone
Wellesley, Edward Courtenay Carrow
Thomson, Arthur Gale
West, James
Thornberg, Antone Frederick
Whitelaw, Thomas Potaro Herrichas
Tbun, Henry Bernhard
Wickersham, John Worth
Toft, Arthur Christensen
Wilkie, Malcolm Darroch
Toft, Chris Peter
Williams, Richard Griffiths Cadwalder
Toft, Neal Christensen
Willis, William Bayard
Torrey, Stanley
Wilson, Arthur Latto
Tower, Horace Frederick
Wilson, Harley Payton
Trebell, Thomas
Withers, William Jerome
Trumbull, Lyman Frank
Witmer, Gottlieb
Tu~ner, Ellerson Mallery
Wohler, John Frederick Hermann
'£way, Ephraim Foster
Woodworth, Marshall Borel
Usher, John Raymond
Word, William Wallace, Jr.
Vance, George Prescott, P. M.
Worden, Walter Le Roy
VanCleve, John Thompson
Workman, Robert Jones
Vega, Frank Abraham
Wright, George William, Jr.
Venker, Henry Hermann
Wright, William George, P. M.
Vogel, Solomon John
Wright, William Quinby
Von Husen, John Henry
Young, Allen Edward
Von Husen, William
Young, Robert Nicholles
Wagner, Charles August William
Young, Walter Henry
Wale, George
Zeh, George Henry
Wallace, Thomas
Zimmermann, Geo. Adam
Walsh, Geol'ge Charles
-505
WITHDRAWN:
Ard, Edward James
Kuckert, Louis Henry
Brierley, James
8cheel, Conrad
Delano, Louis Everett
Schumacher, August
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Barnes, Charles Thomas
Squires, William Dunning
DIED:
Bluhm, William George
Moses, William Schuyler
Bowen, Charles
8kelly, Jam es Henry
Jorgensen, Waldemar Sophos Emil Thomson, Harvey King
Wenzell, William Theodore

70

ROSTER

ROSTER

GOLD HILL LODGE, No. 3:6,

OPHIR LODGE, No. 33.

Lincoln, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pPeceding Ful1 J\foon.

Murphys, Calaveras County.

7.1

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month

OFFICERS:

Hans Paulsen Jansen, Master,
James Edward Wyatt, Sen. Dcaco11,
Lincoln, Cal.
Edward Snell, Junior Deacon,
Albert Charles Fleming, S. Warden, Frank Messner, Marshal,
Clarence Richard Fuller, J. Warden Marcus Thomsen, Steward,
Albert James Gladding, Treasurer, ' Charles Fritz Beerman, Steward,
John Goy, Secretary,
Walter Jansen, Tyler.
Lincoln, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Lorenzo Dow
Huffaker, James Robert
Ahart, Henry Whitley
Hughes, William
Beermann, Charles Fritz
Jansen, Walter, P. M.
Bickford, John Herbert
Jansen, Hans Paulsen, P. lll[.
Blackie, Anthony McClellen
Landis, John Bartle
Bulson, Charles Hermon, P . M.
Lehe, Eugene David Noah
Crosby, Fred Chase
Livingstone, John Alexander
Christiensen, John Peter N.
Michael, Martin
Croly, James .
Misener, Frank
Davis, Frederick Calvin, P. M.
Olsen, Charles Sorensen
Fleming, Albert Charles
Pemberton, George Francis, -..:>. M.
Frederick, Henry David
Pemberton, John Wilmer
Frederick, Morris Huse
Peterson, Niles Fred
Fuller, Clarence Richard
Roberts, William Ewing
Fuller, Richard Nelson
Sparks, Edmond Jones, P. M .
Gladding, Albert James, P. M.
Sparks, William Marti!l
Gladding, Charles
Sparks, William Martin, Jr., P. M.
Gerber, John, P. M.
l:landers, Frank Long
Goy, Charles
Thomsen, Marcus
Goy, John
Van .Dyke, Francis Marrian
Haenny, John, ·P . M.
Wroten, Joseph
Hartwick, Robert Charles
Wyatt, James
Handling, Thomas
Wyatt, James Edward, P. M.
Hislop, James White
-47 •
DIED:
Galusha, Grey

OFFICERS:

John Thomas Morley, Master,
Murphys, Cal.
Emory Jenkins, Senior Warden,
David Eltringham, Junior Warden,
Matthew H . Manuel, Trcaswrer,
Frank W . Fisk, Secretary,
Murphys, Cal.

John J. Fisher, Chaplain,
Edward L. True, Senior Deaco11,
Glover J. Fisher, Junior Dea.con,
Fred Schwoerer, .Marshal,
William Jenkins, Steward,
Edward Prothero, Steward,
James E . Shannon, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Manuel, Mathew Henry
Avery, Morton Peter.
•-.
Manuel, Raymond T.
Batten, Frederick
Morley, John T.
Batten, Henry
McQuig, Alexander May .
Bunney, John
Malaspina, Antone
" ' ·
Carley, Joseph C.
Mitchler, Frank Alexander, P. M.
Cline, Andrew
Poe, Adam W.
Copella, David
Prothero, Edward, P. M.
Castruccia, Augustine
··\i
Ross, Elias Elam
Driver, David Barkie, P. M.
Darr, Ferdinand
Roberts, Owen
Stephens, Benjamin
Eltringham, Dave
Stephens, James Moses
Fahl, Lewis Winslow
Fisk, Frank Willis, P. M.
Schachten, Joseph
Fischef, Glover
Sloan, Orceneth Fisher
Solari, Bastiano
Fischer, John
Garland, Warren Nathaniel, P. M. Steinberg, Edward A.
Gilmore, John Henry
Shannon, James Edward, P. M.'
Schwoerer, Fred
.
Harrington, Oscar Daniel
Smith, Wm. Wright
Heard, John Henry, P. M.
Holland, John E.
Thomas, William, Jr.
Howard, George A., P. M.
True, Edward Lewis
True, George Lewis, P. M. ·
Jenkins, Emory W.
Jenkins, William Henry
Wells, Leo. B.
Williams, Hugh Price
Lesagga, John
Wilson, George Bertram
Manuel, John, P. M.
.:...::

ROSTER

72

SUSPENDED
Langford, James T.
Moran, Thomas J .
McKown, Charles L.
Nuner, Charles G.

FOR

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Poe, James T.
Raggio, Ernest
.SChworrer, Emil
Thomas, George L .
Zugar, Archibald

SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35,
San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
r

OFFICERS:

William Hampton Nichols, Chaplain,
Edgar Bernard Levi, Master,
DeRoy Saum, Senior Deacon,
P. 0. Box 249, San Diego.
David Albert Loebenstein, S. Ward ., John Franklin West, Junior Deacon,
Rainsford Wetmore Belding, J. W., Egbert Carroll ·Bangs, Marshal,
Fred Arnold Schneider, Treasur~, Frederick William Reif, Steward,
Alexander Gaillard Halliday, Stew.,
Edwin Adelbert .Wooda rd, Sec.,
Arthur Burton Haxton, Tyler.
Masonic Temple.

Abt, Josepn Nicholas John
Akerman, John Sutherland
Allen, William Wallace
Anderson, Bert Alfred
Anderson, William Oliver
Arey, Lewis Melbourne
Armstrong, John Emanuel
Arnold, Charles Elmo
Arnold, Gilbert Conger, P. M.
Arnold, Leroy Henry
Arnold, Mott Hunter •
Arnold, Raymond Lacey
Averbeck, George
Bach, Geo. Jacques
Bailey, Theodore 0 .
Bakeman, Thomas
Baker, Wilbur Sampson
Baldwin, Hugh John
Balentine, Arthur Trumbo
Ballou, George Hcn1y
fiangs, Egbert Carroll, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Barkley, James T.
Beall, Edward Morse
Beamer, Peter Walter, P. M
Belcher, Frank J ., Jr.
Belding, Rainsford Wetmore
Belding, Sanford Whitefield
Beermaker, George Wilson
Bennett, Ira Edgar
Benson, Axel Herman
Benton, Henry Clay
Benton, Ralph Stalnaker
Bergath, Richard Otto Rudulph
Betz, Jacob
Biewener, August Henry
Bihler, John Adam
Blackmer, John Keep, P. M .
Blackmore, Harold James
Bledsoe, Henry Rufus
Blochman, Abraham
Blochman, Lucien A.
Boaz, John Irving

ROSTER
Boone, James Loo
Bortzmeyer, John Frederick
Boulden, Edwin Welsey
Bowers, Clarence W.
Bowers, William Wallace, P. M .
Boyd, James Alexander
Bradt, Horace
Braxton, George M.
Breese, Robert
Bruce, John Alexander
Brust, Samuel
Bryan, Solon
Buchan, James Dexter
Budlong, David Harry
Bullong, John George
Burden, Frederick Daniel
Burks, Paul Dore
Burnell, Barker
Burnham, Henry Clifford
Burnham, John, P. M.
Burwell, William John
Buss, Robert Thomas
Cabler, Albert Nelson
Cage, Alva Douglas
Campbell, Edward Lewis
Canfield, Edwin J.
Capps, Eugene Ellsworth
Casey, Patricius Harvey
Cash, James Garrett
Cavalier, John Charles
Chalmers, William Franklin
Chambers, Claude Llewellyn
Chapman, Henry Joseph
Cheesewright, Fred 'k Charles
Choate, Rufus
Christensen, Christian Andreas
Clark, Harry
Clarkson, Henry Whitfield
Clements, Gustavus C.
Colburn, Walter Maurice
Collier, David Charles, Jr.
Collins, Fred
Comly, Harry Seykora
Comly, Harry Retzer

Comly, Jamee Retzer
Colton, George Wood
Conrad, Grant
Cosgrove, Arthur
Crabtree, Edwin Hodge
Craw-for~, Samuel McLain
Croghan, Herbert Anson, P. M.
Dannals, George Mifflin, P. M.
Dauer, Charles Rudolph
Davidson, Frank Pierce
Davidson, Isaac Tobiash
Davies, Edgar George
Day, Joshua Davis
Day, Percey Litchfield
DeBurn, Eugene
Derbyshire, Albert L.
Dill, Burt Freeman
Dillon, Harry Edwin
Doig, Robert Leeper
Doolittle, Herbert Elliott
Donovan, Michael James
Douden, Alvin Norman
Earle, Edward Kendall
Elgasser, Charles Frank
Ellis, Russell James
Emeis, Har:ry Prescott
Evans, Louis Joseph
Feekings, Hubert Gordon
Fleming, Melville Hynson, P. M.
Forward, Charles Hamilton
Forward, John . Tarn
Foe, Willard Newell
Foster, John
Fowler, Morton Barzillai
Fox, Samuel Isaac
Frank, Amos Reed
Frantz, Henry
Fredericks, John· Claus
Frevert, William Lewis
Fry, George Ulysses
Fussell, John Hall
Gandy, Newton St. Clair
Gates, James Henry
Gibbs, Albert Nelson

73

74

ROSTER

Gilbert, Alfred Hyde, P. M
Gillrup, Walter
Glasson, William Jennings
Goad, John Ensley
Goldbaum, Simon
Goldtree, Morris Nathan
Goldtree, Sydney A.
Good, Chas. Long
Goodwin, Percy Henry
Gould, Elwyn Blaine, Jr.
lioulding, Frederick William
Graham, Melancthon Adam, P. M.
Grainger, Earle Hayden
Grandjean, Arthur
Guibord, Thomas
Guild, Herbert Charles
Guyett, Wm. Walter
Habel, Theo. Ellsworth
Hackett, Samuel Warren
Hagaman, Albert Dennis
Hage, Frederir.k Scofield
Hage, Williard B.
Hadley, Ephraim Wilson
Halstead, William Alexander
Hansson, Jonas
Harland, Wilfred Charles
Harper, James Stevenson
Harrell, Thomas A.
Harris, William Wallace
Hawley, Joseph Noah
Hearne, Joseph Carter
Hedstrom, Gustave Edward
Heilbron, Carl Henry, P. M.
Heilbron, Fred 'k Adolph
Hensel, Eugene Arthur, P. M.
Herz, Albert
Hetzel, John Julius
Hickman, Ernest C:
Higginson, Ormond Francis
Hill, George Vernon
Hinkle, Edward Cunningham
Hinton, John Brundridge
Hizar, Julier Clyde
Hogoboom, Winfield Ulark
Holbrook, Elliott

Holbrook, Howard Edward
Holliday, Alex. Gaillard
Holzner, Frank Xavier
Hugo, Leopold
Hull, Charles Calvin
Huff, Herbert L., P. M.
Huisveld, Wugbold
Huitt, Charles E.
Humphrey, Thomas Henry
Hunt, Allan Franklin
Hunt, Nathan
Hylund, Charles John
Ibanez, Jose Marquez
Irwin, William
Jackson, Frederick William
Jackson, Harvey Nelson
Jacobs, Abe
Jameson, William
Jarvis, William Hollis
Jefferis, Frank Dodgson
Jenks, Ernest
Jennison, John Egbert
Jepsen, Hans Peter
Jessop, Alonzo De
Johnson, Fenton Molyneut
Johnson, Perle Marion
Johnston, John McArthur
Joncas, Frank Xavier
Jones, Florin Leslie, P. M.
Jones, Henry Harrison
Josselyn, Charles Lewis
Jnlian, Archibald Huston
Kaplan, Lou~s
Keil, Louis Ernest
Kindler, Albert
Kendall, Oscar Josiah
Kent, Lewis Edgar
Kettner, William, P. M.
Kirby, Lewis Reginald WiJHam
Kressmann, Charles Frederirk
Laing, Oscar
Lamb, Frank Karl
Lam}), Markolet Richards
Lambert, John Willis
Landis, Harry Melancthon

ROSTER
Lapp" John Frederick
Lawrence, John D., P. M.
Lea, Frederick Deputy
Leisenring, Peter S.
Levi, Edgar Bernard
Lew, Marion
Lezynsky, Isaac Lesser
Levi, Adolph
Levi, Bernard
Levi, Simon, P. M.
Lewis, Theron Leslie
Lewis, Thowas James
Lewis, William Wesley
Lischner, Hyman
Liston, James Riley
Little, William Everett
Lobingier, Frank Wells
Loebenstein, Daniel Albert
Longfellow, Byron Melnot
Loomis, Charles Clark
Louis, Emanuel J., P. M.
Lowe, William Olin
Luce, Moses Augustine
Ludington, William French
MacFarlane, William Mitchell
MacKinnon, Duncan
Macnider, George Francis
MacNutt, Homer
Madden, Geo. Simmons
Madden, William Russell
Mahoney, Denis Vincent, P. M.
Manice, John
Mardock, James T.
Marquardt; Hans
Marsh, Otto George
Masten, Louis Cuthbert
Markwith; Ira Hicks
McArthur, Duncan
McClure, Stewart
McFadden, Joseph Ernest
Meintosh, Raymond Pierce
McKie, Hugh Nathaniel
McKie, James Henry
McLure, Louis Steenrod, P. M.
McMurtie, Leighton

McWilliams, Joseph Green
Mead, Francis Henry
Mende, Adolph Jacob
Mendenhall, Americus Luther
Merritt, Wilbur Cassius
Mertzman, Bernhard Frederick
Meyer, Albert Carl
Mills, Edgar Ryder
Mitchell, Clarence Glenn
Mitchell, Samuel Wilson
Molsdale, Arthur Wm.
Moore, Charles Gardiner
Morgan, Addison, P. M.
Morgan, William Griffith
Morris, Arthur Adolphus
Mossholder, Marks Prentice
Mossholder, William John, P. M.
Muehleisen,. Adolph
Murray, Lewis Simon
Naumann, Feador
Nerney, Thomas Alexis
Newton, George William
Nichols, William Hampton, P. M.
0 'Kelley, Frank Charles
0 'Neall, Charles Ford
O'Neill, Bernard J.
Ort, John Cowan
Osborn, John Burchard, P. M.
Owen, Ernest Levan
Parker, George Stevens
Partridge, Charles William
Patterson, Henry Tatterson
Paton, Alex Michael
Payne, John Wesley
Payson, Samuel Clifford
Peake, George Arthur
Pease; Alfred Rodney
Pennoyer, Charles Harold
Perrin, Minrod Jonathon, P. M.
Perrin, WJ.Jliam Cooper
Persons, Joseph Perkins, P. M.
Peterhaus, William Gregory
Peterson, Edward Whitefield
Pfefferkorn, :Mourney Caesar
Piepenbrink, Carl Ernest

75

ROSTER
76

ROSTER

Piepenbrink, Peter John, P. M.
Pierce, Francis Marshal
Porter, Robert Small
Potter, Edward S.
Powers, Robert Morris
Price, Jacob
Price, Peter M.
Price, Walter Willis
Priest, Edward Norman
Pritchard, Charles Peyton
Purdy, William Fred 'k
Puyear, Silas Montague, P. M.
Raithel, John Anderson
Raven, Fred Joseph
Redding, Robert Clark
Re<liern, Alfred Francis
Reed, David Curtis
Reinhardt, Albert Mathew
Remondino, Peter Charles
Reynolds, Alexander
Rhoades, Horace Emmerson
Rice, Louis Jerome
Rice, William .John
Richards, Herbert Samuel
Rief, Frederick William
Rivers, George Hartford
Roberts, Edward M.
Ross, Albert Lee
Ross, ,Tohn
Ross, Morgan Rinehart
Sandford, Fred 'k Swift
Sargent, Frank Larklin
Saum, De Roy
bchiller, Leon M.
Schimpf, August Rudolph
Schartzel, Arthur Jacob
Schneider, Fred Arnold, P. M.
Schneider, Louis
Scheutze, William l<''rederick P. M.
Schindler, Robert
Schnepp, Emil William
Schoonover, Albert
Scripps, James Geo.
Seifert, John Richard
Seifert, Richard Francis

0

Sensabaugh, Leonidas Fraoldip
Shaffer, Daniel Eugene
Shannon, James Webster
Shaw, John Gifford, P. M.
Shepherd, Richardson
Shera, James
Shook, Stafford Leon
Simpson, Albert Lemµel
Smith, Delos DeWitt
Smith, Frederick J.
Smith, Joseph Berton
Smith, Sam Ferry, P. M.
Spears, Henry Gordon
Spreckels, Claus
Springstead, Fred A.
Stabel, Alfred
Stahel, Walter
Stanton, Leon Irenee
Sterne, Charles Embrey
Strickler, John Weaver
Stromberg, Jean Emmanuel
Sturgo, Salvador M.
Swab, Alexander
Swallow, Charles Howell
Swift, John
Swivel, Andrew
Taylnr, Charles Chapman
Taylor, David Gray
Taylor, James Woodbury
'l'aylor, Harry Scott
Telson, John Warren
Thill, Adolph
Thomas, Richard Baker
Thomas, William Emerson
Thompson, Frederick M.
Thompson, .JameR Silas
Thompson, John Waldo, P. M.
Thompson, Karl John
Thompson, Edwin Ruthvin
Thurman, John
Tibbals, William Luther
Titus, Aime Baxter
Titus, Horton LeC.
Titus, Nat Robert, P. M.
Titus, Harry Lewis

Tomkins, William John
Topping, William Crane
Topuzes, George
Touchette, Alfred Octave
Treahey, Alfred Moran
Trompas, Gregory Dematri
Turnbull, Frank
Turner, Ephraim De Mare
Van Dieken, Hermann Henry
Varley, Lazarus
Venters, William Alex.
Verdon, Joseph Percy
\Ternon, Fabius M.
Voeltzel, Daniel
Wadham, James Edward
Wagele, William
Walker, Clark Ambrose
Wangenheim, Julius
Wankowski, Victor
Ward, Marks J.
Waters, Henry Robert
Watson, George
Weakland, Francis Lee
Weldon, James Thomas

Wells, George Washington
Wortheimer, Monroe Albert
Wescott, John Wesley
West, John Franklin
West, William Henry
White, Edwin Virgil
Whitney, Edward Ellsworth
Whitson, William Wesley
Wilhelm, Frederic George
Williams, Horace Delbert
Williams, Charles Lewis
Wilson, James Aldcroft
Wines, Sydney Jeremiah
Wheeler, James Lee
Wilken, Charles Frederick
Willard, Cyrus Field
Winn, Robert Hatch
Wood, Lorin Francie
Woodard, Edwin Adelbert, 'P. M.
Wray, Daniel D.
Wright, Ralph Leone
Wright, Allen Henry
Wyatt, Frank K.
Yates, Enoch
-448 •

WITHDRAWN:
Collins, Huber Asa
Morton, Richard Charles
Downing, John Hyatt
Nichols, James Nelson
}'itch, Herbert R.
Schorr, William Adolphus
Furnald, Frederick Henry Clay
Seymour, Abraham Clarence
Holmes, George
Shaw, Victor Emmanuel
.Tollymore, Mark
*Taylor, Harold Augustus
.Mathewson, Arthur Adelbert
Urrang, Halvor Halvorson
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Griffes, James Hartness
Nystrom, Isador Axel.
McKee, William Naff
Oakley, Nelson Clewell
Millard, Fordyce Rust
Powell, J . Edward
Nichols, Nathan Dean
Schockley, Edgar Bennett
Young, John Alford
Fay, William Andrew
Kreuger, Frederick
Middleton, George

DIED:
Murphy, George Samuel
Polhamus, Albert Alexander
Simpson, John Henfrey
Wolf, Joseph Robert

•Degrees conferred during the year.

77

78

HOSTER

ST. JOHN'S LODGE, No. 37.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Hadley Carlson, Master,
John J. Cowan, Chaplain,
Yreka, Cal.
Stan~y Eastlick Butler, S. Deacon,
George Alford DeWitt, S. Warden, Harry Clement Patterson, J. Deacon,
Herbert Milton Edmonds, J. Ward., Solon Heywood Williams, Marshal,
Frederick Elijah Wadsworth, Treas., Frank Buffum Ackerman, Steward,
William Ernest Comb rink, Secretary, Jeremiah Henry Dempsey, Steward,
Yreka, Cal.
James Marcellus Powers, Tyler.
:MEMBERS:
Fowler, Emerson Joseph
Freshour, Joseph Frank
Freshour, Robert Delbert
Freshour, Walter
Griffin, Franklin Robert
Hansen, Christian
Hess, Lewis Winfield
Hoar, William Pancoast
Hobson, Luther Morris
Holbrook, George Frederick
Horn, David Marshall
Iffland, Karl Stein
Jacobs, Gordon Morse
Jillson, Isaac Oliver
Johnson, George H.
Jones Thomas
Jones, Willard Frederick
Kegg, Fred Emery
Kendall, Edward Jolin
Kennedy, Daniel
Koontz, Henry Newmon
;Lassen, Harry
Lawson, Oscar Henry
Lund, Charley
Luttrell, Charles James, P. M.
Long, James Franklin
Lovegrove, Geo. Elliott
Mani, Peter
Martin, Brice McClendon

Abshire, Alfred C., P. M.
Ackerman, Frank Buffum
Ackerman, Frank Smith
Atkinson, Archibald A.
Belden, Miles Beebe
Bradley, John Taylor
Butler, Bennet Lafayette, P. M.
Butler, Clifford Ederick, P. M.
' Butler, Stanley Eastlick
Carlson, Charles Hadley
Cash, Harry
Chambers, George Henry
Chandler, Eimer Rollo
Chapell, Peter Janette, P. M.
Churchill, Jerome Percy, P. M.
Churchill, Jesse Warren
Cole, Herbert Bailey
Cole, Hugh Franklin
Uombrink, Wm. Ernest, P. M.
Cooley, John Edward
Davis, Alphonse Geo. Wash.
Davis, Henry Levi
Davis, JeBBe Francis
DeWitt, George Alford
Dexter, George Franklin
Diggles, Henry Emit
Eckwall, Alexander
Edmonds, Herbert Milto:u
Foster, Ellis Jacob

ROSTER
Mattern, Adelbert Franklin
Mattern, Herman
Mattern, John Hanlon
McLeod, Hugh
Millbourn, Ernest George
Mitchell, Charles Augustus
Mullin, Henry Nelson
Mullin, Wm. Henry
Newton, Allen, P. M.
Newton, Lester Smith
0 'Neill, John McCormick, P. M.
0 'Shaughnessy, John Francil!
Pashburg, J"ohn Edward
Patterson, Harry Clement
Patterson, Harry Havelock
Pollock, Walter Benson
Powers, James Marcellus
Powers, William Watson
Proebstel, Chester Lloyd
Rankin, Robert, P. M.
Rankin, Robert Ream
Raynes, Alonzo Emery
Raynes, Herbert Rosborough
Ream, Geo. Daniel
Ream, Henry Belden
Richardson, James Albert

Johnson, James Marian

79

Richardson, James Buchanan
Richardson, Newton Eno
Richardson, Sidney
Rohrer, James Baptiste
Scheid, Louis Philip, P. M.
Schroeder, John Henry Christopher
Shearer, William Buckner, P. M.
Shoan, Orian Chase
Soule, John
Southworth, Thomas Benton
Stevens, Charles Edwin
Stine, John William
Tebbe, Frederick Henry
Tebbe, George Albert, P . M.
Tebbe, William Edward
Truitt, George Irwin
Wadsworth, Frederick Elijah, P. M.
Walton, George James
Ward, Kenneth Lester
Webster, Clarence Albert
Wheeler, James Edward, P. M.
Whitten, Charles Wesley
Wilcox, William Edward Benton
Williams, Solon Heywood
Wilson, Jeremiah Judson, P. M.
Wright, John Elbert
-110

DIED:
Mills, Robert McDonald
Shattuck, Silas

SANTA. CRUZ LODGE, No. 38.
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Gerald Francis Severio, Master,
119 Lincoln St., Santa Cruz.
Samuel Arthur Evans, Sen. Ward.,
Henry Rhein, Junior Warden,
Harry Clay Cooper, Treasurer,
Henry Joseph Godfrey, Secretary,
163 Pacific Ave., Santa Cruz.

George Greenwell, Chaplain,
Edward Miles Wilson, Sen. /)eacon,
Henry Kaiser, Junior Deacon,
Henry Dresher Hall, Marshal,
William Henry AchterbeTg, Steward,
Lester Heyden Wessendorf, Steward,
Peter Sophus Olsen, Tyler.

80

ROSTER
ROSTER

Achterberg, Wm. Henry
Adams, Arthur Georire
Ahlers, Diedrich Charles
Aldrich, Edwin Caleb
Angell, Fenner Almerion
Atkinson, Fred 'k Wm.
Awalt, Chester Frank
Aydelotte, Charles Leon
Baker, Charles George Aldis
Barnet, Emanuel
Baldwin, Amos Merritt
Baxter, Robert Jamee
Bell, William Lisle
Bias, Harry James
Bias, William Henry
Bilodeau, John Henry
Blaisdell, Edgar Forrest
Blanchard, Thomas E.
Bowman, Edward
Bowman, Lloyd, P. M.
Bremner, George St. John
Briggs, Herbert Fisk
Brow:a, James Henry
Brown, William
Budgett, Francis
Burdick, Charles Huntington
Bush, Benjamin Howard
Byrne, Walter Charles
Campbell, John Milton
Cardiff, George Henry
Carmean, Lester L.
Carter, Harry Lewis
Castle, Walter Price
Chamberlin, Marcus Philander
Clements, Robert Richardson
Clouette, William Isiaia
Coblentz, Felix
Cohen, Aron
Coleman, Simeon Waldo
Cooper, Harry Clay
Congdon, Willis Rollin
Conklin, Weeden G.
Covell, William Elwell

Hotchkiss, Marshall Edgar
Houghton, Austin Dinsmore
Huff, Frederick Dugan
Insel, Henry- Gustave
Izant, Bertram Howard, P. M.
· Izant, Caleb
Izant, Percy Arthur, P. M.
Izant, William Caleb, P. M.
Jenne, Robert Homer
Johnson, Robert Franklin
Johnson, Walter Lloyd, P. M.
Jonas, Joseph Lewin
Jones, Charles Arthur
Jorgensen, Jorgen
Kaiser, Henry
Kaiser, John
Keck, William Hugus
Kelsey, Edward Albert
Kimball, Charles Augustus
Krebs, Julius Caesar
Kron, Henry Frederick
Kroeger, Charles Herman
La·Port, Delbert Arland
Lawrence, Jay Sherman
Lay, Phineas Smith
Layman, Andrew Johnson
Lester, John Park
Lincoln, Orlando Jay
Linscott, Harry Arlyn
Linscott, John William P. M.
Lloyd, Benjamin
'
Lorenzen, Coby
Lorenzen, Hiram Abiff
Lore~zen, Lawrence
Lozier, Allen Sheldon
Lucas, Frederick William, P. M.
Lucas, Harry Clifford
Lucas, William Vincent, P. M.
Luttrell, Alexander
MacKinnon, James B.
Markle, Robert Bruce
Martin, Benjamin Risdon
Martin, Charles Christopher
Martin, Robert Henry

MEMBERS:
Curtis, Philip Sheridan, P. M.
Dake, Lawrence John
Daniels, Clarence W. F.
Davelay, Alexander Lewis
Daves, Arthur Lawrence
Demarest, .David Parsons
Dixon, Thomas Edward
Dotson, Ira McClellan
Drennan, Ryland
Drullard, Thompson Wilson, P. M.
Ely, Frank William
Emminger, Daniel David
Esty, Jarvis Duncain
Evans, Samuel Arthur
Field, Clarence William
Fischer, Antone
Folsom, Cathers Drummond, P. ]I(,
J<'Oss, Alexander
'Freshour, Josepll Terre
Gayton, John Avard _
Gebhart, Charles Albert
Uodfrey, Henry Joesph, P. M.
Green, Edwin
Greenwell, Geo.
Grover, Myron Hubert
Gulliver, George William
Hall, Everett Cameron
Hall, Henry Drescher
Harran, Edward J., P. M.
Harris, Waymouth
Hart, Frank Russell
Harvey, James Alexander
Hazelton, Harry Raleigh
Heathcote, G. Prince Monpessen
Hearn, Christopher
Hendricksen, Emanuel
Hertz, Henry
Hinkle, Charles Devault, P. M.
Hobart, Edgar
Hobson, Iven Benbow
Hoffman, Frank Joseph
Holland, William
Horton, Roy Dolan

6

,

Mattison, Frank, P. M.
Mattison, Ralph John, P. M.
McCollister, Earl Hamilton
McCreary, Edward Davis
McCreary, Josiah Winans
McCreary, Thomas Guy, P. M.
McNair, James
McPhetres, Daniel Morten
Meadows, Charles Richmond
Melcher, Eugene Dewey
Menefee, Frank George
Middleton, Henry Louis
Middour, William Louis
Mikel, Joseph Andrew
Moore, David Charles
Moore, William St. Clair Demitte
:Montell, George Alfred
Morgan, Francis Edward, Jr.
Mosher, Nelson
Napier, Robert Graham
Nicholson, William H.
Neimes, Nicholas Wilber
Noble, Walter Alexander
Oliver, William
Olsen, Peter Sophus
Ostrom, Aaron Carroll
Perry, Peter Pierce, P. M.
Peterson, Henry Caesar
Philbrook, Edgar Brayton
Phillips, Percy Todd
Phillips, Wm. Alfred
Picknell, Stanley Gates
Pioda, Louis Emelio W.
Piper, Harry Elwin
Powell, Rolla
Pratchner, George Charles
Pratchner, William Wells
Prouty, Frederick Raymond
Putnam, · Marvin Edgerton
Ray, E llis Elijah
Read, William Miles
Reynolds, John Lewis
Rhein, Henry
Rhein, Sidney

-81

ROSTER
"ROSTER

82

Roberts, Frank Kittridge, .Jr.
Rostron,.George Henry, P. JI,
Roy, .James Maurie
Severio, Gerald Francis
Severio, .John, P. M.
Smiley, .John Albert
Shippy, William Delos
Simmers, Walter Edward
Smith, Clyde William
Smith, Lucas Flattery
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Snyder, Bertram Bernard
Snyder, Henry Francis
Springer, Paul Eugene
Springer, Ralph Chesebro
Stall.bes, Charles
Stearns, Frank Wilcox
Stevens, Chas. Morrill
Still, Arthur
Still, Herbert Charles, P. M
Stone, George Whitefield, P. M.
Strite, .John Henry
Sutton, John Burton
Tabler, Charles Melvin

Taylor, .John Alexander, P. M.
Tainton, Edgar :~meted
Thayer, Truman Ransom
Thorburn, Charles Reid ·
'£ooze, William Clarence
Towne, Charles E.
Trezona, Charles Ernest
Tuttle, Burt Hamelton
Twist, .John Parker
Wanzer, Harry Snyder
Webster, Mark
Wessendorf, Lester Heyden
West, Edward Swift, P. M .
Wells, George Washington
Whittle, Louis Arthur
Wilder, Melvin Dwight
Willey, Henry
Willis, Ellery
Wilson, Burton J.
Wilson, Edgar Miles
Wilson, Thomas Clay
Woodard, Lester
Wood, George William
-222
York, .James Maddison

YUBA LODGE, No. 39.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month:
OFFICERS:

Charles E. Turner, Master,
Charles Valentine Doll, Sen. Deac.,
Marysville, Cal.
Thom;i.s Francis Bresnan, Jim. Deac.,
William Clarence Bossen, Sen-. Ward., Arthur Walter Lewis, Marshal,
Bjorn Rudolph Storsand, Jun. Ward., Frank Eugene Hoard, Steward,
Peter Engel, Treasurer,
William Cramer, Swezy, Steward,
Gordon N. Tapley, Secretary,
Elbridge Porter Andross, Tyle~.
Marysville, Cal.

WITHDRAWN:
Allen, Herbert Dunning
Attaway, Taylor
Benner, Winfield Alexander
I

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Aydelotte, William Mack
Plancich, Nicholas Antonia
Reece, Frederick Hood

Martens, ,John Peter

DIED:
Soper, .John
Tenney, Henry Duggan

,

MEMBERS:
Gribner, George Thomas
Aubrey, Arthur George
Barnes, Jesse Walter
Grow, William Bert
Barr, .James Holmes
Hall, George William, I>. M.
Haney, Milton Pavey
Belcher, Richard
Bevan, Richard Edwin
Henn, William Theophilus, l". M.
Bissell, Nelson Clifton
Hoard, Frank Eugene
Bossen, William Clarence
Hutchins, .John Sullivan, P. M.
Boulton, Emison Alton
Hutchins, Gavin Walker
Brostrom, Frederick
.Jenken, William Emerson
Brotherhood, Alan S., P. M.
King, Henry Dietrich, P. M.
Brown, Howard Leroy
Knaugh, .Joshua
Bryan, Elden Elbert
Kuebler, Walter Albert
Lerwick, Martin Jerome
Carpenter, William Edward
Corey, William Franklin
Lewis, Abram Walter, P. M.
Cunningham, Edward Augustus
Lewis, Arthur Garfield
Lipp, Albert Powell
Cunningham, Francis William
Doll, Charles Valentine, P. M.
Loehne, Frederick William, P. M.
Logan, Anderson Dabney
Donnalley, Edward .J.
Eastman,· .James Fred
Malloch, Henry
Engel, Peter
Menz, Albert .John Schrieber
Millar, Robert
Engel, Walter William
Moon, Benjamin
Ewell, Samuel
Moors, Frank Bennett
Fenwick, William Arthur
Newbert, Lee Hamilton
Featherly, Matthew Thomas
Fisher, Amos
Norbon, Paul
Peffer, .John
Foster,, .John Rupert, P. M.
Potter, Frank W., P. M.
Frey, .F rank Edward
Powell, David, P. M.
Fuller, Jesse Beech, P. M.
Redmond, William
Gianella, Vincenzo

ROSTER

84

ROSTER
Roberts, George William
Rogers, John Belcher
Rubel, Charles Christopher
Sheldon, Frederick William
Single, Joseph Henry
Skinner, Randolph Whitney
Stokes, Guy Heancastle, P. :M..
Stone, Charles Caldwell
Stone, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Storsand, Bjorn
St. John, Enos Frost
Sutliff, Bruce Hare
Sutliff, George Warren

Black, Roy Harry

Swezy, Wm. Cramer, P. M.
Swift, Sidney Bourne
Taber, Edgar
Tapley, Frederick Boyd
Tapley, Gordon Nelson
Tatum, Randolph
Turner, Charles Edward
Vanderpool, John Edward
Wallis, Ivory Edgar
Walters, Joseph
Weaver, Alton Roy
Wheelock, John Dexter

Barmby, John Trever
Basler, Charles Miutin
Basler, Martin Albert
Bidwell, Frank J., P. M.
·B eard, George Foster
Beard, Marshall Rowles
Blair, John Newell, P. M.
Bowden, Lewis Walter Roy
Boyd, John Walter, P. M.
Bragg, Charles Lourin
Brand, George Sumner
Brendel, Frank Philip
Briggs, William Ellery
Brown, John Pemper
Brusch, Charles Henry
Bugby, Benj amin Norton, P. M;
Burdick, Joseph
Burr, Allyn Lord
Burr, Richard Palmer, P. M.
Camp, James Glasby
Capen, George Ashley
Carroll, Harry Montfort
Charter, Earl Davis
Christie, Isaac
Clark, Clarence Todd
Clark George Harvey
Colburn, James A.
Coleman, Russell Lowell
Cook, George Nesbit, P. M.
Crabb, Homer Elmer
Curtis, William Albert
Darling, Henry Job
Dolan, Patrick Charles
Dunn, George
Elliott, Spencer Percival
Elliott, William Irving
Ellis, Charles Joshua
Fairbanks, Herbert August
Farr, David
l<'innie, Robert Dryden
Fish, Alfred Lafayette
Fowler, Ezra Schoales
Fraser, John David
Frazier, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Giffen, James Buchanan, P. M.

-83

WITHDRAWN:
Palm, Carl Frederick

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brittan, Mart Thomas

Eastman, William Hazen

DIED:
Davis, Edwin Amenzo
McClintock, William

SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Joseph Hardin Stephens, Master,
Clarence Todd Clark, Chaplain,
Fort Sutter Bank, Sacramento.
Claudius Car'roll Richards, Sen .. Dea. ,
Julian Fontaine Johnson, S en. Ward., Ralph Leslie Skinner, Jun. Deacon,
Allyn Lord Burr, Jun. W arden,
Cornelius Philander Bandy, Marshal,
William Monroe P etrie, Treasurer, Earl Davis Charter, Steward,
Richa rd Cutrer Irvine, Secreta<ry,
Charles Wilbur Griffith, Steward,
1900 H St., Sacramento.
George Dunn, T3•ler.

Acock, Thomas LaFayette
Andrew, Adam
Anderson, Joseph Maurice
Atkinson, Edmund Mansfield
Atkinson, Foster Lincoln

MEMBERS:
Atkinson, Frank Freeman
Appleton, William Edward, P. M.
Bandy, Cornelius Philander, P. M.
Bassett, George Combs, P. M.
Bassett, William Walter

..

Gillis, Dougald
Gilmore, William Wylie
Grant, Duncan
Green, John Albert
Green, John Harry
Griffith, Charles Wilbur
Guth, Joseph
Hale, Evert Wilburn
Hale, Marshall
Hale, Prentiss Cobb
Hale, Reuben Brooks
Harkness, Frank
Harmon, Rufus Burnham, P . M.
Hatch, Wilber Mark
Heath, Josiah Rich
Hendren, H arry Alex.
Hills, Charles Thomas
Hoen, Ernest Martin
Holbrook, Charles
Holmes, George Albert
Hopkins, Edwin Carmi
Hornlein, Hugo August
Hornlein, Ma x Edward
Howard, Douglas Carlton
Hughes, Joseph Wilcoxson, P. M.
Hullin, Nicholas Joseph, P. M.
Humphrey, Anthony Byrd
Ilgner, Charles William, P. M.
Ilgner, Eugene Lowell
Irvine, Richard Cutrer, P. M.
Johnson, Joseph William
Johnson, Julian Fontaine
Johnson, Julian Workman
.Tohnston, J<>hn Wesley
Johnstone, William Weston
.Tones, Perry Evert
.Tordan, Louie Ernest Clark
Judd, Joseph Walter
Kleinsorge, Albert Frederick
Kleinsorge, Henry Emil
Kleinsorge, William Edward, P. M.
Knights, William Durrant, P. M.
Knights, William Rudd
Kyle, Alexander
Lane, George William

85

86

ROSTER

ROSTER

Lark.in, William Henry
Lucas, James Franklin
Madison, William John
Maehn, William Julius
Mathews, Charles James
Mayo, Joseph Ely
McDonald, Walter Lowell
McKim, Samuel Warder
McLean, Duncan
Miller, Arthur Eugene
Miller, Dwight Henry
Miller, Frederick Walton Winston
Miller, John G.
Molter, Jacob Philip
Morgan, Earl Ralph
Morris, Edward
Morton, Charles Wardle
Mott, William Wallace, Sr., P. M.
Mott, William Wallace, Jr.
Mull, Archibald M.
Nash, Hiram DeWitt
Newbert, William Edmond
Nicholas, James Stuart
Nichols, Arthur Lambard
Olsen, Oscar Francis
O'Neill, James. P. M.
Parker, Franklin Wilcox
Payen, Louis
Perkins, Charles Calley
Petersen, Henry Walter
Petrie, William Monroe, P. M.
Phillips, George
·
Phipps, Charles Edward
Porter, Clive William
Prideaux, Richard Blight, P. M.
Quirin, Frank Jacob
Raynsford, Cyrus Harry
Raynsford, Mark Horace
Read, Herber~ Alfred James

Read, John Addison
Reeves, John Wesley
Reith, John
Rhoden, William Augustus
Richards, Claudius Carroll
Rideout, Benjamin Norman
Ross, ThomaR
Ruedy, John
Russell, John Leslie
Saunders, Joseph William
Schaw, William
Schwoerer, Louis Martin
Shonefelt, William Domer
Seymour, Arthur McArthur, P. M.
Skinner, Ralph Leslie
Smith, Harry Anthony
Swain, William Powell
Stephens, Joseph Hardin
Stephenson, Harley Howard, P. M.
Stephenson, William Albert
Stevens, Eugene Noyes
Stevenson, Robert Bruce
Stryker, Daniel Dilts
Stubbs, Charles Russell
Tade, Frank, P. M.
Thorp, Harry
Vaughan, Richard
Vaughan, Wm. Edward
Waggoner, Ruel Holloway, P. M.
Watkins, Delos Sumner, P. M.
Weil, Edward Adolph
Weinstock, Harris
Wendt, Gustav Adolph
Williams, Austin Daniel
Willis, William Ladd
Willis, Evander Berry, P. M.
Wilson, William
Wood, William
Woodruff, David N.
-178

WITHDRAWN:
Craig; James
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Everett, Walter Wjncoop

Bates, Hugh Rowland
Boyd, Thomas

DIED:
Clay, Ammon
Curtis, Melancthon John·
.,.: l

'

MARTINEZ LODGE, No. 41.
Martinez, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
.' 11 ··" '

OFFICERS:
'

· ! : ~I 1l

.: I .: 1 , ,

Frederick John Stewart, Master,
Glenn Avery Wilcox, Ch~f'!~"7· " ;; ..
Martinez, Cal.
Harry Peacock Mudd, Sen, :.D.ea,fqfs1
William Richard Sharkey, S. Ward., Conrad Oscar Nelson; Jun: .Oea&on,
Thomas Brewster Swift, Jun. Ward., Ernest Harvey Shibley, Ma~sh~C · ,..
William Alanson Hale, Treasurer, Abraham Lincoln Danzigei:, Steward,
Orville Eugene Hayward, Secretary, Norton James Morgan, St~ari( '
P. 0. Box 315, Martinez.
George Henry Lyford, Tyler.
·

Alverado, Henry Victor, P. M.
Babel, William
Baer, Alfred Leon
Baldwin, Barry
Baumann, George Edward
Beaudett, Joseph
Bibber, Charles Edward
Blum, Albert Edward
Blum, Gabriel
Blum, Max
Blum, Simon
Borland, Robert Burns
Braden, Grover Jackson
tiray, Absalom Francis
Brooks, Frederick Sheridan
Canfield, Wm. Lee
Coleman, Arthur Burr
Coleman, Harry Leander
Collins, John Samuel
Cummer, George Washington
Danziger, Abraham Lincoln
Davies, Albert
Davis, Ira

MEMBERS:
Dillon, Malachi F.
.,
Duffy, William Joseph
Dye, Thomas Henry
Eddy. Geo. Lyman
, .,.
Edwards, Hugh Pugh,.P. M.. 1
Fassett, William
'l
Field, William A.
Fogg, Donald Eastman
..: ...
1'rater, Nelson ..J ames
' . .t : \
Griffith, Roy C.
Gordon, Ernest
Hale, William Alanson, P. M.
Hale, Ruben Lyon
Hayward, Orville Eugene
Hough, William Jerome
Hammott, William Cushing
Huff, Frank Louis
tl urd, Egbert Lewis
: .; " _.Ipswith, George
' ' .. · · . :
Ingraham, Richard H.
.Jacobs, Samuel Beer
.Tanuary, Gerard T.
Jaquith, Corey C.
l

•

•

88

ROST EH

Jaquith, William Clark
Jamieson, William
Jenkins, Clarence W.
Jones, John Davies
Jones, Madison Ralph
Joost, Martin William
Kelly, Samuel Colter
Latimer, Randal Hubert
Lee. Richard Bee
Lefker, Clyde Renwick
Levinson, David Samuel
Lucas, John Gencoloes
Lyford, George Henry
Lyon, Melvin E.
McClellan, James William
McLeod, Edward, P. M.
Martin, Everett L.
Mathewson, Alex., Jr.
Matheson, Robert Browning
Matheson, William
Matheson, Zachariah Benson
McCabe, Robert Emmit
Moore, Brook L., P. M.
Morgan, Norton James
Mowdy, Charles Elmer, P. M.
Mudd, Harry Peacock
Neustaedter, Michaelis
Neff, Felix Francis
Nelson, Conrad Oscar
Overfield, Henry Dunicake

ROSTER

Owens, Edmund
Pasch, Elias
Pavolini, Anthony
Petersen, John Emil
Powell, Thomas
Rankin, Samuel
Rhine, Charles
Rhine, Jacoh
Rogers, Bloomfield Balton
Rosenstroh, Jake
Schall, Feredrick Charles
Sharkey, William Richard
Shepman, William Joseph
Shibley, Ernest Harvey, P. M.
Simon, John G.
Springer, Thomas Grant
Stemkellner, Thomas Joseph
Stile, Will Rothwell
Slater, Earl Alfred
Smith, Otto Kasper, P. M.
Stewart, Fred John
Swift, Thomas Brewster
Tinning, William S.
Thissen, Charles Willis
Ulsh, Ruben Leonard, P. M.
Wilson, Alvin Brice, P. M.
Weiss, Richard Andrew
Wells, William Sewell, P. G. M.
Wilcox, Glenn A.
Wittenmyer, .Tohn Lewis
-106

LOS ANGELES LODGE, No. 42.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ernest Zachariah Croxall, Master,
George Walter Yarrow, Chaplai11,
167 N. Beaudry Ave.
James Houston Sellers, Sen. Deacon,
Frank Jehial De Mott, Sen. Warden, William Cleveland Mcintyre,/. Deac.,
Robert Leffler Van Zandt, /. Ward., David Darwin Hughes, Marshal,
August P. F. Hartnack, Treasurer, Gilbert Lee Rogers, Steward,
Charles Edward Mitchell, Secretary, Sidney Kramer Lehman, Steward,
Masonic Temple, 706 W, Pico St. Edward Hall Miller, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Daniel Witcher
Blancheri, Leon
Aberbuck, Samuel
Blumenberg, Samuel Purdy
Abramson, Max Jacob
Blum, Jules
Adloff, Jacob
Borba, Manuel
Amols, Charles
Boyarsky, Joseph
· Annable, Fred Lester
Braun, Henry
Ashby, Carl Harry
Brauer, Frederick
Asher, Ralph
Brain, Wyndham Bennett
Baida, Nicolas Gabriel
Bravender, Franklin Matthew
Baldy, A"J.exander Jordan
Bright, William ,Tohn
Barnes, Legene Sago
Brown, Samuel Joseph
Barnett, William Theodore
Brown, Walter William
Barnett, Leo Wise, P. M.
Browning, Arthur Winston
Bates, Astle
Buchanan, Edward Alna
Behrendt, Caspar
Bundy, William Hershal
Behrstock, Isadore
Burkhardt, Adolph
Bell, John
Burckell, Leon Albert
Benedict, Stephen Gano
Burg, Oscar Jeorgen William, P. M.
Berk, Meyer Simon
Buisseret, Alfred Paul
Beckwith, John Mitchell
Burns, James Franklin, P. M.
Bernhard, Gustav Adolph George
Bushnell, John Brown
Berry, Andrew Jackson
Bussert, Jacques
Bible, Thomas Ludlow
Cahen, Caesar George
Biescar, Joseph
Cahen, Simon, P. M.
Biescar, George
Cahn, Henry Samuel
Bille, Marcello
Campbell, Robert
Birnbaum, Isador William
Campbell, Robert Mackenzie
Birnbaum, Joseph Herman
Campbell, William Sylvester
Bixby, Bert Boardman
Carbone, Louis

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burgin, Clarence Otto
SUSPENDED FOR U.l'llMASONIC CONDUCT:
Muir, John Crunna

Arnold, Joseph Charles
Buttner, Louis Napoleon

S9

DIF.D:
Fulton, Homer Harvey
Overfield, George Smith

.

90

ROSTER

Eichholz, Philip
Carlson, Gustap Emil
Elsner, Emanuel
Carter, John West
Enter, Frank Ambrose
Cassidy, Thomas Henry
Ernst, Henry Picket
Chandler, CharleR Harvey
Evans, David P.
Chapman, James Casky
Fanshowe, George Richardson
Cherry, Guy Alonzo
Fast, Max
Chiapella, Edward Emile
Fausey, Lewis Clarence
Choate, James Jefferson
Feder, Nathan
Clark, Alfred
Finkenstein, Isadore Simon
Clark, Henry Walter
Finley, Charles Howard
Clausen, Frederick Carl
Finnila, August
Clayton, George Louie
Fisher, John
Cline, John Casper
Florio, Michel~
Clos, Peter
Fluckinger, George Edward
Cohen, Maurice Mair
Foster, Douglas E.
.Cohn, Elias
Fricke, Carl Henry·
Cohn, Kaspare
Fricke, William Charles
Cohn, Max
Fricke, William Charles, Jr.
Colburn, Edgar Leonard
Friegel, Fred G.
Columbus, Joseph
Fraser, AlexanJer
Cooksey, Job Emit
Fuller, Oliver Ransome
Conzelman, Charles Emanuel
Gaffey, John Tracy
Cook, James Franklin
Gantner, Samuel
Uooper, Abraham
Germain, Edward
Cooper, Alfred
Gersen, Francis George
Cooper, George John
Getchell, John Townsend
Croxall, Ernest Zachariah
Giese, Albert
Curry, William Edward
Gillam, Charles Bruce
Davies, Floyd Ernest
Gillett, Edgar W.
Dawson, Jay Bosworth
CTillrRpie, Frank
De Mott, Frank Jehial
Ginsour g, Nathan
Dietze, Curt Paul ' ·
Glass, John Malcolm
Dilly, Alfred Lockman
Glascock, William Asa
Dorr, Louis Henry
(fold, Heiman Benjamin
Downing, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
Golnschmidt, Hugo
·
Duffy, Charles Arthur
Goldschmidt, Marcus
Dujmovich, Matteo Cosmo
Goldschmidt, Herman Hirsch
Duncan, Louis Freeling
Goldsten, Joseph Cohen
Duncan, William Jones
Goldsten, Morris Harry, P. M.
Durphy, Alfred Hartwell
Goldsworthy, Frank William
Dyer, Charles Rosser
Ecclestone, Charles Volhim, P. M. Golob, Max
Golter, Edward
Edelman, Abram Moses, P. M.
Gotthelf, Aaron Solem
Edelman, David William
Graf, Siegfried ·
Edgar, Clarence Willia'm

ROSTER
Graham, Angus, Jr.
Graham, Angus
Gravit, Martin John
Green, Leo
·
Griffiths, Thomas
Gross, George Washington
Guggenheim, Lazare
Guterman, Abe
Guterman, Morris
Haber, Peter R.
Hallner, William
Ham, Elmer Nelson
Ham, Walter Asahel
Hamilton, Edwin Smyth
Hanbury, Edgar John
Hardstein, Joseph
Hargrave, Pascal King
Hartman, David
Hartnack, August Peter Frod 'k
Hartnack 1 John Charles
Hauch, Isaac
Haugh, Paul Edward
Hayes, Henry Cone
Hein, Jacob
Hellman, James Wolf
Hellman, Isaias William
Hendrickson, John Skidmore
Herskowitz, Benjamin
Hess, Arthur Cameron
Hiner, Elmer, P. M.
Hirsh, Dave
Hirsh, Harry
Hobbs, Francis James
Hoffman, William Michael
Hogan, Eugene Belton, Jr.
Hoeleher, John Henry
Holbrook, Frederick William
Hollowell, Isaac Lloyd
Home, George Kimball
Huff, Wesley John
Hughes, David Darwin
Hyman, 'I.loiiis Henry
Iaeger, Louis John Frederick
Illich, John
Jackson, Ralph B.

Jameson, Walter
Jauch, Joseph Wilhelm
Jenkins, John Clayton
Johnson, Frank A.
Johnson, James McClure
Johnson, Luther Herman
Johnson, Palmer Alfred
Johnston, Albert Humboldt
John11ton, William Mitchell
Judd, Albert Ellis
Julian, Edward Gustave
Kalisher, Simmie
Kaplan, Benjamin
Kennedy, John Doby
l{ing, Edwin Clifton
King, John, P. M .
Kingsbaker, Benjamin
Kircher, Hermann Otto
Klein, Morris, P. M.
Klein, Adolph
Knight, .Walter Arthur
Kolmanson, Kolman
Krempel, Christian
Krempel, John Paul
Krug, Charles Laurence
Kurpiers, Franz Stanislaus
La Lande, Roy Joseph
Lamport, William Lewis
Lane, Frank Joesph
Last, John Ludwig Adolph
Last, Carl Frederick August, P. M.
Langbein, Ernest Leslie
Laxton, Ernest
Lehman, SidnP,y Kramer
Leo, John
Leonie, Jean Baptiste
Levy, Elie Julius
Levy, Felix
Levy, Ralph Amite
Lindenbaum, Lollis
Lindstedt, Alfred Robert
Lipsky, Jacob
Llewellyn, William
Longuevan, Joseph Beauregard
Lutes, Harry George

91

ROSTER

92

ROSTER

Magnus, Belmar
Maier, Richard Edward
Maier, Simon
Mapel, Charles Elliot
Martin, Carl William
Martin, Colin Tolmie
Masac, Howard Anthony
Masac, Theophilus
Max, William
May, George W.
Mayor, Frank William
McArthur, Clifford Whitmore
McCreary, Charles
McCreary, Thomas Martin
McDowell, James
Mcinnis, August G.
Mcintyre, William Cleveland
McLaren, Malcolm
McLeod, John Edward
McStay, Walter Milton
Melczer, Joseph
Meuschke, Edward Herman
Meyer, James Benjamin
Meyer, Solomon
Michelsen, George
Miller, Edward Hall
Miller, Harry Crow
Miller, Carl Gregg, P. M.
Miller, Isaac Joseph
Miller, Joseph
Mitchell, Charles Edward, P. M.
Mitchell, George Ernest
Mittendorf, Louis Ernest
MC1ir, Frank
Moore, Frank Bernard
Moore, Henry Clay, Jr.
Moore, James Lloyd
Moore, Walter Scott
Moulton, Harry Jackson
Mummert, Arthur James
Muswick, Max Fred
Myrick, Orlando Harlow
Nance, Charles Holland
Nance, Roswell S.

Neale, William Joseph
Nelson, John William
Newhard, William Penn
Newman, Harry Wilcoxson
Newmark, Harris
Newmark, Max Nathan
Noel, James
Northmore, Emanuel Richar<l
Norton, Isaac
Norton, Isaac Henry
O<ll'nthal, Hubert
Paget, Howard
Pamucina, Mitchei
Paulson, Paul
Peck, Thomas Charles
Percival, John Cary
Pertson, Louis Abraham
Pierce, Henry Alfonzo
Pitner, Franklin Ruble
Platt, Francis Edward
Pollock, Simon Lazarof
Prager, Leo
Preston, William Herman Frank B.
Pyle, John Clifford
Pyle, <?larence Gearheart
Rademacher, Frank, P. M.
Radom, Sidney
Ramsey, Frank Cecil
Raphael, Robert Herman
Redican, Bernard
Reed, Guy Burt
Reeder, Joseph Clark
Richards, Raymond George
Richards, Sidney Albert
Roberts, John Henry
Robinson, William Joseph
Rodowitz, Henry Louis
Rogers, Gilbert Lee
Rosin, Benjamin
Roth, Max
Rouse, Lester
Rudolph, Ernest Louis William
Rudolph, William
Russakov, Max

Russell, Arthur Lewis
Bussell, Thomas Blaine
Ryan, Michael Edwin
Salinger, Victor Randolph
Samuels, Max
Samuels, Morris
Scheerer, Conrad
Schlesinger, Jacob
Schone, John
Schons, Otto Herbert
Schroeder, Richard Albert
Schulman, Simon
S chwartz, Heyman
Schwartz, Leo
Scott, Walter Hayes
Sedgwfo~ Thomas Diincan
Seebold, A)exander Humboldt
Sellers, James Houston
Shannon, Michael Francis
Shaw, Thomas William
Shockley, James Bert
Shoemaker, Frederick Willcox
Singer, Joseph
Singh, Sardar Hira
Skinner, James
Slavin, Alexander Gerson
Sloan, Bennie Ernest
Smith, Benjamin Franklin Porter
Smith, Carl Parmenis, P. M.
Smith, James
Smith, Arthur Garfield
Smith, Willard Eliphalet
Snively, Clarenr.e Eugene
Snyder, Bernard SylveRter
Spear, Joseph
Spengler, Philip
Spies, Arthur John
Spindler, Moses
Spitzer, Harry
Stanton, Edwin
Stark, Julius
Stein, Philip
Steineman, Hermon Jacob
Steinen, Fred

Sternback, Nathan
Stewart, Archie Earnest
Stewart , Charles Page
Stewart , James Watson
Stivers, ltlen Harry
Stoecklin, Arnold Joseph
Story, Fred Hust ed
Sullans, Charles Clinton
Talbot, Madison Worthington
Theobald, Victor Hugo
Terry, Bennett
Tileston, William Lount
Todd, Robert Asa
Townsend, Albert Lamar
Vansyckle, George Wame
\Tan Zandt, Robert Lef f ler
Vest, Joseph L.
Vogel, Herman Oscar
Wagner, William James
Wallace, Harry Hall
Walls, William Le Roy
Watts, William Lord
Wearne, Julian Howard
Weidner, Peter
W einsveig, Mikel
Weisberger, Sam
Wells, Ashton Albert, P. M.
Weyse, Rudolf, Guenther
Wharton, Mesheeh
White, Francis E dgar
Whiting, Perry
Wilcox, Cornelius Hiram
Wilcox, Frank E ll
Wilcox, Lyman E lmore
Williams, George A.
Williams, William John
Wise, Walter Dorsett, P. M.
Witkind, Simon
Wolff, Bernhard
Wolff, Isaac
Wol1l', Louis Gottlieb
Wood, Guy Chambers
Woodb ury, Edward
Worden, Herbert Bairsto

ROSTER
Wygal, Jacob Thomas
Yarrow, George Walter, P. M.
Yarrow, Lloyd Ray

Bayha, George Gottlob
Bayha, Maximillian
Biescar, Henry
Fischer, Alois
Guenther, John Adolph

Young, Harry Orlie
Zemansky, Solomon
Zenz, John

ROSTER
Fisher, John .Adolphus, P. M.
Frazier, John Edwin
Uriffin, Earl Van Dorn
Harvey, George Washington
Heald, John Campbell
Hill, Grant
Hirst, Oliver Nelson
Hopkins, Wm. Charles
Hubbard, Lucious Samuel
McDonald, Charles Darwin
McKenzie, William Burgess

-420

WITHDRAWN:
Horen, Edwin
Ruoff, Albert
8taben, Emil Ernst
Slotterback, Harry Walter
Thurner, Gottlob Adolf
Wirtz, Rudolph

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Joham, James Joseph
Boyle, Calvin Aleimas
Joyce, Thomas Francis
Boyle, William Matchneer
Klein, Julius S.
Daniels, Albert Julius
Maeder, Alfred Gottlob
Dodson, William Long
Nelson, Alexander Philip
Hancock, William Frederick
8chrein, Joseph Martin
Higson, James Henry
Summerland, Theodore

Griggs, William Francis
Maeder, Henry Julius

McNeil, Homer Hubert
Moore, William Jefferson, P. M.
Salmon, George Washington
Skinner, William Henry
Smith, Chauncey Justus
Smith, Elbert W.
Smith, Urvin Waldo
Staples, Alpheus Dow
Swingle, Orry James
Yeadon, William
-29

MOUNT MORIAH LODGE, No. 44.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, :first Wednesday in each month.
Masonic Temple.

OFFICERS:

Sterling Kindall Campbell, Master, Daniel Bradford Richards, Chaplain,
20 Geary Street.
Roy Allen Pratt, Senior Deacon,
John Jacob Stahl, Senior Warden, Karl Frederick Holzmuller, J. Deac.,
Henry Nathaniel Clift, Jun. Ward .• George Washington Kennedy, Mar.,
John Frederick Schroth, Treasurer, Christian Hansen Hjul, Steward,
Theodore Frolich, Secretary,
Thomas Nixon, Steward,
846 Phelan Bldg·.
Hans Gustav Frederickson, Tyler.

DIED:
Stidham, Taylor
Taylor, Clarence John

HIRAM LODGE, No_. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Adam, Herman
Allen, William George
Altenburg, August
Ames, Frank Holmes
Ames, Frank Mortimer
Amey, George Henry
Anderson, Alfred Henry
Anderson, Carl Alfred
Anderson, Charles James
Anderson, Marquitt
Anderson, Otto Evart
Anderson, Sterling
Andrews, Thomas Patrick
Anthony, Herbert Mills
Applegate, George Brenton
Apperson, Charles Leonard

OFFICERS:

William Jefferson Moore, Master, Benjamin Caesar Celio, Sen. Deacon,
El Dorado, Cal.
William Spencer Biggs, Jun. Deacon,
Grant Hill, Senior Warden,
John Adolphus Fisher, Marshal,
Homer Herbert McNeil, Jun. War., Oliver Nelson Hirst, Steward,
John Campbell Heald, Treasurer,
William Burgess McKenzie, Stew.,
William Yeadon, Secretary,
Gerhard Heinrich Diithmann, Tyler.
El Dorado, Cal.
Berry, Reuben Kelley
Biggs, Wm. Spencer
Black, Charles Franklin
Cantrell, Coswell Clay

95

MEMBERS:
Carsey, Malon Snyder
Celio, Benjamin Caesar
Celio, Frank
Diithmann, Gerhard Heinrich, P. M.

•

MEMBERS:
Baker, Charles Arnold
Barker, Leslie Enoch
Barnett, Harry
Barry, Edgar Stephen
Basker, Solomon
Batchelder, Nathan Prescott
Beck, Sigmund
Bell, Joseph Vincent
Benson, Nils Peter
Bergen, Alexander
Bergerot, Pierre Alexander
Bernhard, Peter Daniel
Bernstein, Max
Bernstein, Philip
Bestandig, Max
Bowman, George Washington

96

..

ROSTER

Boyer, William Edward, P. M.
Brandt, Fred Nicholas
Bredhoff, Charles Martin
Brunkhorst, Henry Charles
Bryant, Frederick James
Burke, Edmund William
Burke, William Gordon
Bury, Valentine Ryder
Calden, Guy Chester
Calvin, William Henry
Cambre, Harry
Campbell, Benjamin Getty
Campbell, Sterling Kin<lall
Caswell, George William
Cevasco, Giovanni Battista
Chamberlain, Aaron Lewis, P . M.
Chase, Nathaniel Linton
Chaseagne, Leon
Clift, Henry Nathaniel
Cohl, Morris
Cohn, Max
Coffee, Lawrence Wm.
Conmy, Thomas Cherry, P. M .
Conner, John Caswell
Copeland, Benjamin Wellington
Corinson, Jacob
Cranmer, Fred
Crawley, John Edwin
Crittenden, Joseph Lambert, P. M.
Cunningham, Thomas Stanley
Davies, Ezekiel William
Davis, David
Davis, John Warner
Dean, Edwin Hamilton
Dellegar, Fred 'k Clarence
Demartini, Frank Jerome
Diers, Peter Matthias
Dixon, John Meneely
Dixon, Randall McDonald
Dixon, William John Pittman
Dolling, William Henry, P. M.
Dondero, Charles
Dowell, Marvin Eugene
Doxey, John Aubrey
Eaton, Frederick Ward

Eberhart, Adolph, P. M.
Ellery, Epes
Ellison, Thomas
Engdahl, Ernest Olof ·
~off, Jesse Rodolph
Erikson, Clarence, P . M.
Erken, Charles Henry
Ertola, J oeeph Frederick
Etienne, Emile
Etienne, Joseph Martin
Etienne, Vietor, Jr.
Everett, Daniel Henry, P. M.
Fischer, Oscar
Fish, George Lewis
Fisk, William James
Flynn, Thomas Emmett
Foeha, William Francis
Ford, Campbell
Fredrickson, Hans Gustav
Freiermuth, George Henry
Frolich, Theodore, P. M.
Gaasch, Otto
Geist, William
Greub, Gustav Adolph
Gilbert, George Shoebridge
Gill, Edward Clifford
Gilman, Samuel Walter
Gloss, Anton Adolf
Goldberg, Jacob
Gordan, Jacob
Grace, Frank Henry
Green, Aaron Samuel
Green, August
Green, Louis David
Gruver, Charles Silvamoiue
Gunderson, Severin Tobias
Gunn, William John
Gutfeld, Jacob
Hacke, William Conrad, P. M.
Halsted, Eminel Potter
Harper, Fred Fogg Gale
Harris, Thomas Voel
Harshall, Gustav
Hart, Oscar Herman
Harvey, William Alonzo

ROSTER
Harvey, William Edward
Hatteroth, William Henry Carl
Haughy, James Clarkson
Haussler, Frederick Otto
Haviside, Harry Thomae
Healey, William Wilford
Hennings, John Henry Marius
Henry, Carl Albert
Herbst, Herschel Herman
Heron, Wm. Morton
Hewson, George Edward
Herrguth, Frank Peter
Hertlein, Henry
Heyneman, Herman
Hiett, Julius Sylvester
Hill, Edwin Potter
Hilmer, Frank Ernest
Hilmer, Fred Louis
Hjul, Christian Hansen
Hoadley, Hermann Muller
Hofmeister, JuliuR S.
Holladay, Samuel Wirt
Holmes, James Gilmour
Holzmiiller, Karl Frederick, Jr.
Horstmann, William John
Hyde, Alexander
Israel, Arthur Clarence
Jacobs, Albert
Jacobs, Albert Poeorny
Jacobs, Arthur Felton
JaMbs. Henry
Jenkel, John Rudolph August
Jens, John Charles, P. M.
.Jensen, Hans Peter
Johansen, Christian
Johnson, Otto John Henry
Johnson, William Ewin
Joly, John George
Jones, George Edward
Jorgensen, Lawrence
Junkins, John Spencer
Kato, Frans Ludwig
Kelly. John
Kennedy, George Washington
7

97

Kerr, John
Kinsman, Chester Cushing ·
Kinsman, Raymon Flanders
Kimball, John Albion
Kimball, John Carpenter, P . M.
Klein, Frederick Wilhelm
Knox, Frederick Woodson ·
Koepke, Hane Joachim H .
Krone, Frederick Wilhelm
Krone, Frederick William, Jr.
Kukaviza, Milan
Kupfer, Edouard Herman
Lander, Charles John
Lasey, Frank Howard
Lebenbaum, Louie
LeCam, Ferdinand Julian
Lemmermann, John Hermann Henry
Lenoir, Emile .
Levy, Herman
Lillie, Augustus Seabury
Lindsay, Charles McKerral, P. M.
Lindsay, Thomas
Linne, John Conrad
Lippman, George W.
Louderback, Davis, P. M.
Maass, Andrew Henry
MacFarland, John
Maden, Emile
Maguire, Eugene Burns
Mason, Edward William
Masters, Charles Benfield
Mathewson, Clifford Earl
McCallan, John
Mccaw, William Nassau .
McDaniel, Will.ard
McElroy, William _Joseph
McGuire, Jamee
McKay,. William
MeKellar, John
McLean, George, P. M.
McLean, Norman Howard
McNab, Jamee
Menzel, William
Merry, Thomae

98

ROSTER

ROSTER

Schlesinger, Bert
Meyer, Marcus Cauffman
Schloss, Benjamin
Miller, James Andrew
Schloss, Mendel Jacob
Mires, Edward
Schmalzlen, William
Morehead, Charles
Schmidt, Valentine
Morrison, James Renshaw
Schmitt, Adam Albert
Mosk, Naftaly
Schreiber, Herman Richard
Nagel, Carl Siegfried Gunther
Schroth, Charles Albert
Nash, Jay Thomas
Schroth, John Frederick, P. M.
Nelson, Alexander
Schubert, Hugo Grorge
Nelson, James Henry
Schuhl, Ferno
Newell, Joseph
Schulz, Adolf Henry
Newhouse, William Gerhart
Seibel, Frederick Lacey
Newman, Charles Bleistein
Seibel, Philipp
Nicol, James
Seike, Richard Brooker
Nicolson, Harry Mclvor
Seiler, Adolph Paul
Nielsen, Nicholas
Seiler, Paul G. Adolphns, P" M.
Nixon, Thomas
Sellman, Johan Alfred
Normand, Emile Henri
Sexton, Oliver Plunket
Olsson, John Olof
Shekell, Arthur Glenn
Oman, Eric Wm.
Sinclair, Henderson
Ott, Michael George
Smith, Herbert Le Baron
Packer, James, Jr.
Smith, Thomas Robbert
Parker, George Frederick
Smits, Henry Aldegondns Joseph
Pasquale, Henry Camille
Sonneborn, Chester Arthur
Pels, Louis Edward
Sorensen, Charles
Phillips, William Edward
Soulier, Joseph
Plato, George Morris
Spencer, Frank Aaron
Post, Edward Mortimor
Stahl, John Jacob
Pratt, John James
Stamey, Nelson Virgil
Pratt, Roy Allen
Stark, William Henderson
Price, Benjamin Tydfil
Steinman, Bernard
Price, Louis Hartwell
Stelling, Martin
Raabe, Frederick Otto
Stewart, Thomas Henry, Jr.
Radston, Julius
Stimmel, Martin Mendel
Ratterree, Allen Hopper
Straus, Auguste Lazar
Rawe, John Henry
Strom, John
Reeb, Ferdinand
Sullivan, Michael John
Richards, Daniel Bradford, P. M.
Sweeney, John Joseph
Richards, Harry Griffin
Tauszky, Edmund, P. M.
Richards, John David
Thomas, George Joseph
Robbins, Etliel Alvin
Thompson, Nathaniel
Rolls, John Sellers
Thorpe, William James
Rosenfeld, Leo
Tillman, Leopold
Sahlein, Jules M.
Trobock, Bartholomew Nicholas
Sangberg, Rudolf Ingomar

Trudgett, Robert Davis
Turner, George Angell
Usher, William Henry
Van Sicklen, Frederick Wetherbee
Velander, Gust.af Emil
Vensano, Harry Chittenden
Vogler, Albert John Henry
Voyce, Alfred, Jr.
Wagstaff, Thomas Hamlet
Walker, David Edward
Walley, Emil Engelberth
Wallman, Bodo Andrew
Walters, John Franklin
Ward, Herbert Foster, P. M.
Warriner, Frank Terry

99

Webster, Charles John .
Wentworth, Benning
Whearty, Peter Francis
Whitcomb, Frank Randolph, P. M.
Wikander, John
Williams, John Henry
Wilson, David
Wilson, John Oliver
Wilson, Robert John
Wolff, William
Woodside, Alexander, P. M
Woodward, George Homes
Woolley, Lell Hawley
Wulzen, Frederick George
Zion, Edwin Ray
-330

WITHDRAWN:
Roberts, Joseph Lazarus

Barnard, Frank
Davis, Morris White
Merrill, Isaac McGaw
Montealegre, Carlos Francisco
McLean, John
Nicholson, William Drake

DIED:
Osborn, Corra Mahlon
Parmelee, Elmer Ellsworth
Price, Thomas
Raabe, Charles Edward
Seidner, Philip
Smith, John Henry

CRESCENT LODGE, No. 45.
Crescent City, Del Norte County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Joseph Mitchell Hamilton, Master, Edwin Adams Moore, Chaplain,
Crescent City, Cal.
John Charles Suennen, Sen. Deac.,
Raleigh Scott Winton, Sm. Ward., Fred E_dward Nevers, Jun. Deacon.
.
John Henry Taylor, Jun. Warden, Drury White Rice, Marshal,
George Curtis Walton, Treasurer, Earl James Payton; Steward,
Greenleaf Curtis, Secretary,
West Duly, Steward,
Crescent City, Cal.
James Benson, Tyler.

ioo

RO::iTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Miles, James Darrell
Anderson, ·Frank Levi
Moore, Edwin Adams
Anderson, Harry
Barneburg, Abraham Aaron, P. M. Mo:r;ris, Samuel
McLarren, Willie Washington
Beam, John Daniel
McLaurin, Douglas Cameron
Benson, James
McVay, Samuel Hutson
Berg, Albert Julius
Nelson, Charles
l:sountz, Martin Milton
Nevers, Fred Howard
Bowman, James Pierre
Nichols, William Lucius
Brooking, James
Pala, Charles
Chapman, Charles Ernest, P. M.
Payton, Earl James
Childs, John Leon
.t'eveler, John Randolph
Childs, Leon John
Peveler, Daniel Cassidy
Crook, Theron Webster
Pratt, Lee Sheldon
Crook, Asa Hamilton
Pric·e , Herbert Victor
Curtis, Greenleaf, P. M.
Rice, Drury White, P. M.
Cutler, Fletcher Arnold
Rice, Charles Edgar
Cutting, Chester Edwin, P. M.
Richards, Fred William
Dudley, Orrin, P. M.
Rea, Daniel
Duly, West
Sands, John Austin
Dumbach, David
Searmark, Stephen Henry
Edwards, David Powell
Snavely, John Wesley
Edwards, Hugh Jones
Stephens, Emmett Robert
Eherman, John Wendell
Elwell, Phylander Leighton, P. M. Stevens, Philip
Stone, Bertram, P. M.
Fine, Ernest Maxwell
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Frame, Franklin Perry
Suennen, John Charles
Gibson, John Clayton
Tack, Nicholas
Gutsch, Herman August
Tryon, George Edwin
Hamilton, Joseph Mitchell
Tyler, John Alexander
Hamilton, William Hart
Tyler, John Henry
Hegler, Edwin Clarence
Thomas, Herbert Joseph
Jones, Walter James
Vincent, Frank V.
Klinke, William August
Whitlow, William Allen
Larson, John Grover
Winton, Raleigh Scott
Lind, Frank
Windle, Joseph
Marhoft'er, Jacob
Wall, Joseph Aaron
Marhoft'er, Frank Mason
Walton, George Curtis
Marshall, William Jr.
Yarborough, Louis
Martin, Joseph George
Manley, George Winfield

101

TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
San Juan, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month
OFFICERS:

Irvin Webster Moore, Master,
Benjamin Flint, Senior Deacon,
San Juan, Cal.
Curtiss Grubb Warner, Jun. Deac.,
Walter Oscar Laederick, Sen. Ward., Clarence Elbert Burnett, Marshal,
Frederick William Kemp, J. Ward., Richard Hall Flint, Steward,
Mark Joseph Regan, Treasurer,
Joseph Sylvester 'Willcox, Steward,
Arthur Smith Moore, Secretary,
Roscoe Greene Norton, Tyler.
San Juan, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Ashley, James Henderson, P. M.
Laederich, Walter Oscar
Ball, Jau Don
Morton, Frank
Bullier, Leon
Miles, James
Bumpus, James Walter
Moore, Arthur Smith, P. M.
Burnett, Clarence Elbert
Moore, George Holmes, P. M.
Burnett, William Fletcher
Moore, Irvin Webster, P. M.
Canfield, William Walton, P. M.
Norton, Roscoe Greene, P. M .
Regan, Mark Joseph
Canfield, Samuel Russell
Flint, Benjamin
Regan, Mark Joseph, Jr.
Flint, Thomas, P. G. M.
Regan, William George, P. M.
Flint, Richard Hall
Blaysman, Charles Reese
Flint, William Read, P. M.
Stewart, Archibald
Flint, Robert Winchester
Warner, Curtiss Grub
Forrester, Arthur Bruce
Welch, Harry
Kemp, Frederick William
Wilcox, Joseph Sylvester
-30

FORBESTOWN LODGE, No. 50.
I

Forbestown, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William John Schultz, Master,
Clipper Mills, Cal.
Fred Oski:r Alm, S enior Warden,
Frank B. Wagner, Junior Warden,
Garret Clarence Daley, Treasurer,
Charles Fri.\ncis Adams, S ecretary,
Clipper Mills, Cal.

-79

•

John David Herrin, Senior Deacon,
Hiram Edward Parker, lun. Deacon,
Maxwell Gaddis H iil, Marshal,
Henry Albert Beik, Steward,
Homer Melbourne Le Gate, Steward.,
George Washington Hill, Tyle'r.

..

IOZ

ROSTER

ROSTER
Gibson, Allen Wade
Urant, Joseph Clement
Hallock, Robert F. Lattimer
Henry, Alexander Culberson
Hayford, William Barrows, P. M.
Hayford, James Barrows
Holmshaw, Harry Fred
Honn, George Edward
Jones, Frank Ellis
Lobner, Morris, P. M.
Lobner, Henry
Luck, Frederick Charles
McCleary, John Blain
MeGrow, Denis Joseph
Miner, Edgar Delaney
Miner, Frank Earl
Maginn, Pa trick Henry
Morrison, Robert Gordon
Mott, Edgar Charles
Neideffer, John Fleming
Nicholls, Robert Alfred
Norton, Darius Valmore, P. M.
Peers, Robert Alway, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Charles Francis
Gildmaeher, Melchior
Allen, John Emmet
Herrin, John David
Alm, Fred Osker
Hill, Maxwell Gaddis, P. M .
Beeve, Louis Joseph
Hill, George Washington
Beik, Henry Albert
LeGate, Homer Melbourne
Belfranei, Thomas Julius
Lilja, Andrew
Bouvier, Charles Frederick
Lord, Frederick King
Burroughs, Frank Cecil
Miller, John Barrie
Burroughs, Julian
Nivens, William Lincoln
Cannon, Albert C.
Price, Gabriel William
Parker, Hiram Edward
Chappell, Wallace Homer, P. M.
Cox, William David
Schultz, William John, P. M
Crandall, Abraham Lincoln
Smullin, Samuel Nesbit Dallas
Curtis, Benjamin Franklin
Stocker, Edmund
Daley, Garret Clarence
Wagner, Frank B.
Finch, John Milton
Wickman, Fred William
-32
,DIED:
Conwell, Henry Ashbury

ILLINOISTOWN LODGE, No. 51.

Pottol, Robert
Raymond, Perey Miles
Reeder, George Avery
Rondoni, Aguilera
Rose, I. Elmer
Russell, Daniel A.
Russell, Melvin
Schultze, Frederick Heney
Scott, Enoch Everett
Sewell, Thomas John
Smith, Albert Halliday
Stevens, Amos, P. M.
Theiss, Henry Daniel ·
Venkemulder, Dick
Vore, Edmund
Wanzer, Horace Benjami'n
West, George Edward, P. M.
West, James Edward
Wiesler, William Henry
Williams, John Herman
Williamson, James Raycroft
Wisker, Aubrey Lee, P. M.
Yoder, John Franklin

WITHDRAWN:
*Law, Percy Augustus

Colfax, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•Degrees conferred dur!ng the year.

OFFICERS:

Frank Earl Miner, Master,
Horace Benja,min Wanzer, S. Deac.,
Colfax, Cal.
Edgar Charles Mott. Ju11. Deacon,
Darius Valmore Norton, Sen. Ward., ........................................, Marshal,
Thomas Steel, Jun. Warden,
Percy McLeod Beaser, Steward,
George Edward West, Treasurer,
Edgar Delancey Miner, Steward,
Morris Lobner, Secretary,
John Hermon Williams, Tyler.
Colfax, Cal.

Ackerman, Francis Marion
Beaser, Perey McLeod
Dent, Elmer Sherlock
Bissett, William Nelson
Booth, Newton Elmer
Cahjew, Beland
Edwards, Richard

lOll

.,.

SUISUN LODGE, No. 55.
Suisun, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS :

MEMBERS:
Ewers, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Falconer, Dvncan, P. M.
Gersendorfer, Charles Andrew
Gersendorfer, John
Gersendorfer, George
Gersendorfer, William Paul
Ghent, Byron James

Samuel Grant Bransford, Master,
Kenneth Inskip Jones, Chaplain, · · ...
Suisun, Cal.
Eugene Langdon Dearborn, S. Deac.',
Emile Bowdoin Potter Kemp, S. W., Thomas Oliver Dowdell, l. Deac;;
Joseph R. Chadbourne, Jr., J. W., Gilbert Russell" Jones, Marshal,.
Edgar Ernest Long, Treasurer,
William Charles Vogel, Steward,·
Daniel H. White, Secretary,
Arthur Reinholdt Duehreil, Sten'flrd-,
Fairfield, Cal.
John Richard Nicholson, Tyler.

..

104

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Alen, William Edward
Long, Edgar Ernest
Aylesworth, Walter Eugene, P. M. Lucks, Gustav Heinrich
Barnett, Samuel Robert, P. M.
Mabry, Albert Thomas
Batchelder, Harlan Willard
Macrandrias, Elias
Berner, August
Malchi, John
Bills, William Clarence
Martin, Lucius D.
Bransford, Samuel Gant
Mason, Daniel Newton
Brown, John Stewart
Mayfield, Charles Edgar
Brown, William Bernard
McCormack, Duncan W.
Miller, Albert William
Cerkel, Wolf
Chadbourne, Joseph Robert Jr.
Miller, Allen Charles, P. M.
Cornish, George Oney
Miller, George Carlyle
Danielson, Joseph Barbour
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Danuser, Peter
. Morrill, Frederick Lewis
Davisson, William Gustavus, P. M. Murray, John Houston, P. M.
Davisson, William Sherman
Nicholson, John Richard
Dearborn, Eugene Langdon
Oberti, Joseph
Dinkelspiel, Meyer, P. M.
Paulson, Edwin Lauritz
Passmore, Irvin
Downing, William Everts
Downing, William Green
Pierce, William
Duehren, Arthur Reinholdt
Polland, James Samuel
Pope, Frank
Elliot, Harvey R.
Fallman, Charles Emery
Prather, James Hiram, P. M .
Freeman, William Joseph
Reed, Albert Levi, P. M.
Getz, Horace Eshelman
Richardson, Jerome Bonaparte, P.M.
Goosen, Henry
Robbins, John Lloyd McC.
Gregory, Thomas T. C.
Robbins, Ruel Drinkwater, Jr., P. M.
Guill, Etna Ewing
Rummelsburg, Alexander
Rush, Benjamin Franklin
Haile, John William
Rush, Frederick Winn
Haines, Wesley Jedediah
Hale, William Crosby
Salisbury, Reuben B.
Scarlett, Samuel
Harbor, John Franklin
Sheldon, Winifred Corydon
11arfleet, Alfred Ernent
Hays, Ira Condit Kennedy
Sheldon, Ralph Merriman, P. M.
Shorey, Sumner A.
Hilborn, Edward Payson
Spence, James Underhill, P. M.
Hildebrand, William Shermau
Sprague, Stanley
Hoyt, William Kimball
Stellar, Louis Palmer
Hunter, Ely James
Stephens, William Bell
.Tones, Gilbert Russell, P. M.
Jones, Kenneth Inskip
Stewart, Brenton Rupel, P. M.
Stewart, Edgar L.
Keene, Kendall Clifton
Kemp, Emile B. P.
Stewart, Frank Edgar
St. ,John, Royal Upson
J,oeser, Carl Frederick

ROSTER
Taber, Charles Lincoln
Tomasini, Guiliano
Van De Mark, Lester Winsor
Vogel, William Charles
V otypka, John
Watkins, Wilbur Kemble
Weidner, Ernest
Weinberger, Marcus
Wetmore, Chester
Crone, George Thomas

105

Wells, Roy Johnson
White, Daniel H.
Wills, Carl Theodore
Willson, Robert Martin
Wilson, John Andrew
Wood, Frederick Diemer
Woods, Robert Henry
Woods, Warren Anthony

-103

WITHDRAWN:
Hart, Frank Russell

VOLCANO LODGE, No. 56.
Volcano, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Adams, Alexander
Boydston, Elmer David, P. M.
Bradshaw, Clarence, P. M.
Cook, Henry W.
Cook, Lewis Horton
Denend, Griffith
Fessel, William EdwarJ
Fisher, David, Jr.
Giannini, Domenico
Giannini, James
Glenn, William Jay
Grillo, John Batista
Hamilton, James
Hughes, Samuel

Lehn, Albert
Mason, Warren Quincy, P. M .
McLane, Wm. Chester
McLaughlin, A. W.
Miller, Louis F.
Nichols, Clarence G.
Payton, Lee F.
Real, Antone Lewis
Rinehart, Ottis Wash
Ryan, William
Santirfo, Edward R., P. M.
Ubbena, Herman Michael, P. M.
Wallenburg, Charles
Webster, Otis Lincoln
-28

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Berry, Albert
DIED:
Delucchi, Tony

106

T:OSTER

ROSTER

SANTA ROSA LODGE, No. 57.
Santa. Rosa., Sonoma. County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frederick Oran Reeder, Master,
Alexander Campbell McMeans, Chap.,
Santa Rosa, Cal.
Ross Clarence Moodey, Sen. Deac:,
Hubert Wallace Beardin, Sen. Ward., Harry Paul Fish, Junior Deacon,
John Moses Boyes, Junior Warden, Charles Eugene Lee, Marshal,
Charles Dwight Barnett, Treasurer, Augustus Leander Lee, Steward,
William Henry Pool, Secretary,
Russell James Birch, Steward,
819 2nd St., Santa Rosa.
Charles Bernard Kobes, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ahrens, William Martin
Bowers, Herbert Andrews
Andrews, George Ewing
Boyes, John Moses
Arnold, Amasa W.
Bradley, James Edward
Ayers, George Lemuel
Braughler, Martin
Broadwell, Chas. Stanley
Bailey, Jesee William
Baker, Geo. Thomas
Brooks, Milton Jay
Ballard, Benjamin Franklin, P. M. Bronson, Eugene Grant
Bane, Charles Hamilton
Brown, Bennie
Bane, Frank Preston
Brown, William Elias
Barnett, Charles Dwight, P. M.
Bruning, Christopher Henry Wm.
Bryant, Allen
Beardin, Hubert Wallace
Bumbaugh, Charles Martin, P. M.
Belden, Benjamin Clinton
Burgess, James Floyd
Belden, Charles Clinton
Burnett, Albert G., P. M.
Belden, Ralph Austin
Burris, Frank Marion
Belden, Roy Eugene
Benjamin; William Edward
Burris, Luther William
Burris, Shirley David
Bennett, James Augustus
Benson, William
Cable, Isaac Newton
Berka, Frank
Campbell, John Tyler, P. M.
Bernstein, Isaac William
Carpenter, Cecil Moore
Bertolani, Peter America
Carter, Daniel Putnam
Birch, Russell James
Castlen, Edward Bowdra
Bockelmann, Fernando Gerhard C. Cellar, Geo. Ray
Cline, Henry Christian, P. M.
Body, Fred N.
Colgan, George Washington
Body, Mark, P. M.
. Cooper, Earl Ray
Boehmer, John
Cox, Exum Morris, P. M.
i3ogle, Samuel Saffell
Crane, Alexander Thomas
Bonar, Robert M.
Craw, Albert Benjamin
Bonney, Alfred Truscott

\

Crawford, Edwin Henry
Crawford, Richard Fruit
Curtis, George Alexander
Davis, Walter Scott
Davis, William David
Dessau, Henry Ferdin.?-nd
Dillard, Daniel Warren
Doda, Battista Giovanni
Dohn, George Arthur
Dohn, George Ernest
Dondero, John B.
Doran, William James
Dougherty, Samuel Kimmel
Downes, Ernest
Downey, Abner David
Duncan, James Parker
Einhorn, Joseph Herman
Egbert, Warren
Erwin, Albert Orland
Finley, Harrison
Fish, Harry Paul
Fitts, John Perry
Flint, Willard Bert
Flouraud, Matthieu
Forsyth, Henry Mizer
Foye, George Frederick
Frank, Nels Christensen
Franklin, Job Henry Richard
French, Charles Franklin
Frey, Peter
Fryer, Roy
Fulwider, Lucien · Edgar
Gage, Geo. Riceborou·g h
Gilliam, Samuel Jackson
Glynn, Francis J. Boneparte
Goodman, Leopold Solomon
Goodman, William Howard
Gray, Woodard Martin
Green, Lincoln D.
Greene, Willis Elihu
Uroh.e, Fred
Guerne, George Emil
Hardie, Albert Milton
Harden, Ephraim
Hatch, Irvin Clifton

Herrick, Albert Benjamin, P. M.
Hicks, James Oliver
Hockin, William
Hosmer, Stanley
Hosmer, Winslow Simon
Houts, Orrie L.
Hoyt, J ease Douglas
Hurlstone, Richard Brain
Hunt, Clyde Everett
Hutchinson, Thomas Johnson
Hutchison, Lawrence
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Charles
Jacobs, Himmie W.
Jesse, James William
Johnson, Andrew
Jones, William
Jordan, Leslie Agostine
Juell, Nils Roth Heyerdahl
Kelley, Thomas Lamb
Kennedy, Charles Alexander
Kobes, Charles Bernard, P. M.
Kohler, Louis Wm.
Korbel, Anton Francie
Korbel, Leo Victor
Kurlander, Irving Sol
Le.franchi, Massimino
Lane, Carlton Alpheus, P. M.
Lark, Newton Allen
Laughlin, Alex. Douglas, P. M.
Laughlin, John McGill, P. M
Lawson, Lewis B.
Le Baron, Hollis Wright
Lee, Augustus Leander
Lee, Charles Eugene, P . M.
Lee, William Henry
Leete, Orton
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, P. M
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, Jr.
Lemmon, Fred Gage
Leslie, John, P. M.
Lewis, Edmund Phelps
Lewis, George Washington
Loomis, Frank Clemens
LorE>nzen, Peter

107

108

ROSTER

Loynahan, Thomas Earle
Pool, William Henry
Luce, Arthur Sprague
Porep, Walter Putnam
Luce, George Liddle
Potter, Eber Ward
MacGregor, Allan P.
Pryor, Fredd Orlando
Mailer, Jamee Clark, P. M.
Randall, Chester Earl
Mailer, Jamee Thompson, P. M.
Reading, George Joseph
Mailer, John Robb
Reeder, Frederick Oran
Mallory, George Washington, P. M. Reeve, Orson Henry
Martin, David Elliott
Reuterehan, Max
McCabe, George Henry Walter
Rhoades, Samuel
McConnell, William Ellitt
Robinson Benjamin Meritt
McDannell, Benjamin Franklin
Rogers, Carroll Bishop
Rosenberg, Fred Sig.
McDonald, Mark Lindsey, Jr.
McKinlay, Duncan E.
Rosenberg, Max
McLeod, Jamee Harvey
RoBB, Henry J., P. M.
McMeans, Alexander Campbell, P.M:.Ross, John
McNab, Arthur Victor, P. M.
Ross, Thomas Daniel
McNab, John Liddell
Rowan, James Hamilton
McNee, Royal John Hunter
Salisbury, George Washington
Meisner, Chae. Henry
:;lavage, George Walter
·
Meneray, Prince Albert
Sawyer, Elbert Ransom, P. M.
Mercier, John Louie
Scott, Alfred William
Merritt, Edson Charles
Seawell, Emmet
Miller, Thomas Boone
Seegelken, Johan Wilhelm
Shaffer, Reuben H.
Mobley, John Elmer
Moke, Henry Herbert
Shaffer, Wilber Emmet
Moodey, Ross Clarence
Shaw, William
Morgan, William Cochrane
Shearer, William Piper, P. M
Mortenson, Hans
Shriver, Nathan
Nagle, Frederick Gough
Simpson, Willie Burton, P. M.
Near, Christopher David
Sinclair, Henry George
Nimmo, John Hanson
Slater, George Herbert Waite
Oates, James Wyatt
Smith, John Calhoun
Overton, John Patton
Smith, John Kinder
Paddock, Doctor John
Smith, Wilson Clate
Page, Davrd Cooper, P. M.
Souther, Charles Hamilton
Palmer, George Washington
Speegle, Madison Monroe
Patton, Dexter
Spencer, Byron M.
Paxton, Blitz Wright
Staley, Wayne Snoden
Percy, James
Steele, John Ernest
Peterson, Raford Wesley
Steiner, Frederick Charles
Peterson, William Wilson
Stewart, Charles William
Phillipe, Edward James
Summers, William Henry
Phillips, Thomas Lester
Sweet, James Sylvester
Piggott, Jamee Kenneth
Taffinder, Robert Alfred

ROSTER
Warboys, John Walter
Ward, Charles S.
Ward, William Burchard
Wasserman, Milton Lesem
Waters, Albert Reuben
Waters, Herbert Joseph
West, Wilbur Samuel
Wetche, Chrestian Fredrik
Whipple, Edwin Allen
Whitaker, Walter Lee, P. M.
Wilson, Frank Raymond
Wolfe, George
Woolley, William Fredrick
Wyland, Samuel Israel
Yarnell, William I.
Yoho, Samuel R.

Taylor, Charles DeWitt
Taylor, John Shackleford
Temple, Jackson
Thomas, George Perry
Thompson, James Monroe
Thorson, Jesse Fremont
Tripp, Hiram Lewie, P. M.
Trowbridge, Harold A.9.gustus
Tupper, George Anderson
Underhill, William Henry
Underwoo~, Charles Howard
Upp, Arthur Frank
Van Wormer, Clement Harry
Vaughan, Marvin Thomas, P. M.
\Tint, Thomas
Wagner, Theodore F. C.
Ware, Allison Burr, P. M.

-271

WITHDRAWN:
Fountain, Orlando
Acton, William
"Knott, Zeb
Bowers, Nathan Abbott
Malott, Howard Oliver
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Johnston, Fred L.
Mackenzie, Allen Ramsey
Vanderhoof, Martin Van Buren
Wines, William Freeman

Brown, Arthur DeWitt
Cooper, Eugene Marcus
Haven, Clarence

Rahman, Henry Gustav

109

DIED:
Stewart, John Hudson

•Degrees conferred during the year.

110

ROSTER

ltOSTEll

Fourness, Eli
.l!'ox, David Franklin
Fried, Michael
Gallaway, Alfred Russell
Gardiner, Alexander John, P. M.
Gerson, Samuel
Uleie, Adolph Ferdinand
Gleie, Harry Ernest
Glenn, Malcolm Cadien
Gordon, William Henry
Gray, Frank Livingston
Green, Alexander Scott
Grimes, Allen Lawrence
Grinton, John Kennedy
Haas, Nelson Willoughby
Handlin, William Joseph
Harbinson, James George
Hart, Aden Cavins
Harvey, Edwin Henry, P. M.
Hecker, Sidney
Heitman, John Henry
Henrich, Karl
Hill, Charles Edward, P. M.
Hicks, William Arthur
Hicks, John Benton
Hirsch, Philip
Hoffman, Daniel Webster, P. M.
Hopkins, Owen Griffith
Hughes, Evan .Tones
Huntington, Thomas Waterman
Husted, William Joseph
Ingham, Harry
Israel, Sol
Jenkins, Morris Arthur
Johnson, Howard Kennedy, P. M.
Jones, Charles Breckenfield
Jones, Oscar G., P. M.
Jones, Samuel Hart
Joy, Robert
Judson, Frederick Walter
Kay, Edgar John
Kellam, William Henry Browning
Kendrick, Colin
K err, H oward Dixon
Keyes, Homer Frost

UNION LODGE, No. 58.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each m,•nth.
OFFICERS:
George Leslie, Master,
Michael Fried, Chaplain,
Sacramento, Cal.
John Walter Tyler, Senior Deacon,
Mallory Exavia Enos, Sen. Ward., Charles Francis Nehrbass, Jun. Deac.,
Jesse Percival Bascon, Jun. Ward., Franklin Benj. Kleinsorge, Marshal,
Charles Albert Root, Treasurer,
Drury DeWolf Butler, Stetvard,
Edward Frederick Willi, Secretary, Joel Osgood Wilder, Jr., Steward,
P. 0 . Box 25, Sacramento.
Joel Osgood Wilder, Sr., Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, John Francis
Clark, William Edward
Alexander, Robert, P. M.
Clause, John
Arnold, Frederick William
Clement, Louie Metzler
Arnold, Horace Douglas
Coats, William Demmond, Jr.
Baker, Thomas John, P. M.
Colclough, Dudley K.
Baldwin, William Hedges, P. M.
Colclough, Ralph Miller
Barnard, Morse
Cooledge, Isaac Baldwin, P. M.
Barr, ·chester Elmer
Coyne, William
Bauer, John Jacob Rock
Dale, John Franklin
Bauman, Benjamin Stephen
Darrow, Albert Lincoln
Bascom, Jesse Percival
Davies, John Gault
Baxter, George Leslie
Denson, Samuel Crawford, P. G. M.
Beere, Gilbert Pennington
Douglas, William Wallace, P. M.
Bennett, Alfred Ernest
Dreyer, Rasmus Peter Neilson
Berriesford, Ralph
Eckhardt, William Henry
Bening, William Frederick
Egeberg, Julius Columbus
Blauth, Theobald
Eichrodt, Max
Bloomer, Fred 'k Rutherford Miller Ellis, Henry Emilus Augustus
Boltz, Peter Sauser
Ellsworth, William Munn
Brooke, Morris
Ellsworth Charles Henry
Bruederly, William Sherman
Enos, Mallory Exavia
Buckmann, Frederick William
Enwright, Thomas Lincoln
Feldhusen, John Henry
Buell, Daniel Siddle
Burnside, Thomas Seth
Ferguson, James Henry, P. M.
Butler, Drury DeWolf
Fical, Charles Augustus
Butler, John Winchel Spencer
Fifield, Lewie La Marena
Carlaw, Andrew
Fitch, William Cyrus
Carnes, Edward Kentner
Forney, Henry Hinkle
Casselman, Anson Adam
Ford, Quincy Albertis

..

111

King, George Edward
Kleinsorge, Frank Benjamin, P. M .
Kloppenburg, Daniel William
Koch, Carl
Krebs, Harry Garfield
Lambert , Richard Hobart
Lamphrey, Charles Westley
Lawson, Walter Brokaw
Lightner, Bonus
Lindsley, Albert
Little, Christopher
Longton, Alfred Thomas
Longton, Thoma11 Henry
Loorya, David Solomon
Lowe, Eugene Clem
Marshall, Joseph Owen
McCormick, Frank
McCulloch, James
McFall, Henry Lee
McGregor, John .
McKay, Daniel
Meister, George Albert, P. M .
Meister, Albert Rheinhardt
Merrill, George Enoch
Meyer, Hermm
.Meyer, Johann Gerhard
Mitau, Henry
Mitchell, P. Albert
Moore, James Hoskins, P. M
Moore, Frederick William
Morgan, John Franklin, P. M.
Morrill, Frank Orio
Morrison, James Matthew
Morrissey, Rodney James
Morehead, William
Morehead, Philip
Moulton, Dwight Augustus
Nathan, Aaron
Nathan, Isador Carroll
~ehrbase, Charles Franklin
Newman, Peter
Newman, George
Nicolaus, Henry J oseph, Jr.
Noack, Charles John
Noack, Carl William Gustave

112

ROSTER

Norris, John Gwinn
Nourse, Sterling Boyden
Oltman, Charles
Oughton, William George
Phipps, William Thomas, P. M.
!'ope, Edwin Alexander
Potter, Loyal Abner
Prince, Joseph William
Pugh, Charles Lorenza
Randle, George Nelson
Redington, Alfred Augustus, P. M.
Reed, George B.
Rego, Edward Sutherland
Richards, William Freeman
Rickett, Walter L.
Robbins, James Aldrich
Root, Charles Albert, P. M.
Ross, Charles Francis
Ross, George Rex
Ruhstaller, Frank Joseph
Rydberg, Herman Gustof
Schmid, Emil
Schroeder,Richard Franklin
Schwab, William
Scott, William
Shaw, Ira Clark
Sheldon, William Chauncey
Shepstone, George Ebenezer
Shinkle, James William
Simmons, Samuel, P. M.
Simon, Max
Smith, Clarence Henry
Smith, John Edward
Smith, Samuel Augustus
Stich, Harry Leo, P. M.
Stevens, Fred Andrew
Stevenson, Henry Llewellyn
Swain, Frank Russell
Swift, Charles Judson
Teichert, Adolph
Teichert, Adolph, Jr.
Theile, Ernest Arden
Thompson, Irvin

Toleman, Frank Augustus
•rozer, Charles Walter
Truman, George Clarence
Turner, Eldridge Curts
Twitchell, Edward Woodland
Tyer, John Walter
Uhl, George Adam
Uren, Stephen
Uren, John Martin
Van Epen, Morrius Cornelius
Van Fleet, William Carey
Vaughn, Edward
Wahl, Edward
Wahlander, Charles George
Walker, William Craig
Wallace, Edward Lee Roy
Wallace, Joseph Fillmore
Welch, Frank Cummings
Welch, George Henry
Westlake, William Henry
Weston, Arthur. Melville
White, Charles Corbet
White, George Amos, P. M.
White, John Lysander
White, William George
Willi, William George
Willi, Edward Frederick, P. M.
Williams, George Elford
·
Williams, Richard G.
Wilson, Benno, P. M.
Wilson, James John
Wilson, Jesse Warren
Wilder, Joel Osgood, Sr.
Wilder, Joel ·Osgood, Jr.
Wilder, Edwin Milton
Wolf, Edward
Wolfe, Charles Henry
Wood, Harry Maxfield
Wood, Richard R.
Wright, Ralph
Young, Leo Herbert
Younger, Andrew
-233

ROSTER

Bliss, Sydney

Byers, Robert Hopkins
Harbinson, James
Pardee, Cordon Lewis
Reid, Thomas Benton

113

WITHDRAWN:
Jones, Charles Edward
Peacocke, William
DIF.D:
Smith, William Penn
Witham1 Gilbert Tapley
Welch, Benjamin
Y oerk, Charles A ugastus
:.! '

GRAVEL RANGE LODGE, No. 59.
Camptonville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harold Nelson, Master,
David Lewis, Chaplain,
Camptonville, Cal.
Walter Winsmore Chapman, Sen. D.,.
Fredrick Joseph Joubert, Sen. Ward., Franklin Millard Gwves Jun. Deac.
Frank John Massa, Jun. Warden, Joseph Paul Pendola; St;w,ard.,_ ... '
Benjamin Leroy Hames, Treasurer, Thomas Jackson Byrd, Stewartj,
Rollin Carlisle Groves, Secretary,
William Bull Meek, .\1arshal,
Camptonville, Cal.
Peter Mondada, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Alfred
Kendall, Edward C.
Blanchard, Milton A.
Lake, George Wesley
Bristow, John William
Lewis, David
Byrd, Thomas Jefferson
Lawrence, Richard K.
Cleveland, Earl Leroy, P. M.
Meek, Wm. Bull, P. M.
Dutra, Antone Edward
Merriam, James Chester
Eich, Harvey Dixon
Mondada, Peter
Feiss, John William
Moss, Clarence Eugene
Groves, Franklin Millard·, P. M.
Nelson, Harold, P. M.
Groves, Rollin Carlisle
Pendola, Joseph Paul
Hames, Benjamin LeRoy, P. M.
Phillips, John William
Johnson, Samuel Boardman
Reese, Thomae Devonald
Joubert, Fredrick Joseph
Scott, Jamee Warren
Kennady, Charles Hampton
Simmons, William
Kennady, John Henry, P. M.
Watts, Jeremiah, P. M.

---,30
.,.

8

- '·

114.

ROSTER

PLUMAS LODGE, No. 60.
Quincy, Plumas County.
St11ted Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
(No ' Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Leopold, Asa Freudenthal
Arnold, Harry William
Lionel, Frederick Bartlett
Barber, Beverly Fielden
Little, Joseph Moss
Barrett Louis Archa
Macdonald James Neil
Beckley, Harry
Mae Nair, Wm. Dennie
Berg, Arthur Clarence
Malcolm, William
Bolton, Manzanita Benjamin
McBeth, Horace Park, P. M.
Byers, Wm. Thomas
McComas, William Pratt
Cato, Henry Loring
Mcintosh, :Melville
Cate, LaFayette
McLennan, Kenneth
Chambers, Robert
Moncur, James Oglevie, P. M.
Clinch, William John
Myers, Charles Snider
Clough, Leon Lowell, P. M.
Omand, James
Dorsch, Henry George
Palmer, Gilbert
Dunham, Allen Murry
Robertson, Archibald John
Eisner, David
Robertson, Arthur William
Ford, Walter Jackson
Robertson, Donald James
Felleman, John Irving
Robertson, Frank Duncan
Garner, Edward
Robinson, James Frederick
Gifford, John
Rogers, Harvey Pue
Goodwin, Samuel Daniel
Sommers, John Benjamin
Gray, Asa White, P. M.
Speague, Paul Royden
Hail, Felix Grundy
Spooner, John Franklin, P. M.
Hail, Herbert Felix
Stephan, Jake Neseman
Harling, Fred
Stephen, George Henry
Hoffman, Henry J'ean, P. M.
Stewart, Robert
Hollister, Albert Guy
Strite, George A.
Jones, Wm. Robert
Sylvester, Frank Edwin
Keddie, Arthur Walter, P. M.
Thayer, Andrew Hemm
Kerr, Michaei Charles
Thomas-, Arthur Howe
Kling, Louis Albert Henry, P. M.
Thompson, Charles Russell
Koonter, Robert Fred
\Vagner, Lewis Herman
Kyle; Kruser Kane
Walsh, Frank Denton
Leek, Joseph Lewis
Waterhouse, Harold Holmes
Lasswell, Bert James

ROSTER
Webb, Ulysses Siegel
Wells, George Clifford
Wilson, George, P. M.

lllJ

Wilson, John Evrette
Wolter, John William

-73

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hanvey, Charles B. N.
Johnson, Frank E.

LIVE OAK LODGE, No. 61.
Oakland, Alameda. County.
Stated Meetings, :first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Joseph Garibaldi Master James Thomas Golton, Chaplain,
2323 Taylor Terrace, Oakland. ' Charles Harris Victor Sen Deacon
Ezra William Decoto, Sen. Warden, Charles Wade Pangbu~n ' J•:n Dea c.,,
L ee S wamey Greswold, Jun. Warden,Charles Alfred Anderson Marshal
Charles Henry Wood, Treasurer,
Edward Belmont Brigba~ Stewa:d
John Allison Beckwith, Secretary, Herbert Beckwith Steward
'
Masonic Temple, Oakland.
Charles· Marsh K~lly, Tyle;.
ft

•

MEMBERS:
Abbott, Cyrus Wm.
Abernethy, William John
Adams, Henry Hamilton:
Adams, John Elmer
Aiken, Benjamin Rosell
Akerly, James Clark Smith
Akins, Edward Charles
Allen, Alex. McMillan
Allyn, Burton Charles
Amaden, Ralph J.
Andersen, Magnus Alfred
Anderson, Charles Alfred
Anderson, Charles John
Anderson, Harry Severin
Andrews, Charles William
Angwin, Henry Raymond
Angwin, James Alfred
Angwin, William Stanley
Arper, George Washington
Arrowsmith, William H.
Atkinson, Thomas Albion
Austin, Harry

Avery, Mark Herbert
A very, Frank Herbert
Bachelder, Carl Ames
Badgley, William Oscar
Baggot, Ed Protzman
Bahls, Richard
Baker, Abel Warren Jr.
Baker, David Franklin
Baker, Eugene Hall
Baldwin, Robert Oliver
Ball, Clinton Cory
Ball, Charles Henry
Bandy, George Lewis
Barnes, William Chauncey
Barnes, William Holland
Bartram, Robert Washington
Bauer, Jacob
Baumgartner, August Christoph
Beach, Ranson Elias
Beauregard, Lorenzo
Beckwith, Herbert
Beckwith, John Allison, P. M.

ROSTER
Belden, William Allen
Bennett, Robert Howard
,Bennetts, Charles Daniel
:Beretta, Italo Andrew
Bergsten, Oscar- Paulus
Betts, .Jamee Ernest
Bibber, Thomae Benjamin
Bice, John
Bird, Charles Gladstone
Bistorious, George Albert
Blair, George Washington
Blanchard, Eugene •
Blanchard, John Henry
Blasdel, Francis Gaines
Blaedel, Harry Vance, P. M.
Blood, William Frank
Boardman, Joseph
Boldt, William Lewis
Boland, Archie Frederick
Bolza, William
Borgeson, Charles John
Borland, William James
Borton, Chester Cooper
Borton, Earl Clifford
Bostwick, Henry
Botsford, Edwin Russell
Bowers, Charles Levi
Bowersmith, John Everett
Bradley, Arthur James
Bradway, Frank Fernando
Brady, Edward Jamee
Braun, Nathaniel Henry
Brazelton, Warren Buck
Brigham, Edward Belm~nt
Broadwater, Edward Sproul
Broadwater, William Elgin
Brooks, Fr~nk Howard, P. M.
Brown, No~a James
Brown, .W;.ll.µtm Mainland, Jr.
Buckley; Frank Elijah, P. M.
Bullo!Jk, Richard Steele
Bunker, Walter Douglas
Burch, George Emerson
Burt, Frederick Leslie
Burtchael, Sa.muel Waters

Bush, Harry Charles1 P. M.
Buteau, Samuel :e;awkins
Byers, Louie Thctmae
Campbell, Jamee
· 'Oai:npben 1· John .
Capwell, Harris Cebert
Carlton, Harry Putnam
--Castell; Clarence Whitney
Chamberlin, Edward Aaron
Chamberlin, William Richmond
chambers, ·Wilfred Ernest
Chandler, Frank Melvin
Chapman, George Hawke
Chappel, Robert Newell
Chesnut, John Augustus
Church, Lincoln Sheridan
Clark, David Allan ·
Clark, Marion
Clayton, William Burt
Cloud, Archibald Jeter
Cockerton, Daniel Henry
Cockerton, George Albert
Co11inr Herbert
Coffin, Oliver Cromwell ,
Colegrove, Jqhn Albert ·
Collier, John Henry
Colquhoun, Joseph Alexanuer
Cooley, Milton Van Horn
Conduee, WJlliam Konstantine
Conradi, Philip
Cook, John Peter
Cook, Peter
Cook, William Coleman
Cooley, Rueeell Henry
Corder, Walter Edgar
Cornell, Daniel Jefferson
Cotter, Fred Martin
Cotter, Ralph Evans
Cowan, Frank Ernest
, Craft, Richard Corson
Cramer, Adolph Edward Henry
Cramer, Guido Detlef
Crane, George Richard
Crane, William Whitfield
Crellin, Thomas Arthur

ROSTER
Crocker, Horace Alvin
Cron, William Jr.
Crcok, Oliver
Crose, Ralph Herbert
Crowell, Clarence Elwin
Culver, William Lee
Curdte, Carl Edward
Curtis, Earl W.
Curtis; Frederick Charles
Dalton, Frank Norris, P. M.
Dalton, Henry Norris
Davies, Charles Percival
Davis, James Edward
Davis, Joseph Lloyd
Davis, Judson Milton
Dean, Beach Humphrey
Dean, William Edward
Decoto, Ezra William
Decoto, Louis Albert
Deering, Chester
DeGolia, Edwin Baldwin
Depoy, Jamee Alstott, Jr.
Derrick, George Henry
Dieckmann, John Henry
Dietz, Henry Loui11
Dinesen, Jacob Nissen
Dingle, Alfred
Di.ion, George
Dodge, Clarence Wythe
Dodge, Guy Edward
Dodge, Henry Arthur
Doell, Carl Theodore
Doig, Rolla Wallace
Dorman, Charles Goodyear
Domin, George William, P. M.
Drew, Edwin Pierce
DuBois, Percy Hamilton
Dunn, Leslie Budd
Earhart, Earl
Eby, John Douglas
Edotr, James P.
Edson, Judson Henry
Edwards, Edward
Elfen, Harry Edward
Emerson, Mark Lewis

Emigh,. Thomas Powell
English, Wallace Grundy
Enge, Otis Webb
Engvick, Clarence Edgar
Evans, Robert Griffith
Evans, Roland Joy
Ewer, Edward Norton
·F aller, Charles Henry
Falvey, John Richard
Farish, Robert Roy
Farrington, Elvin Dunn
Farwell, Oney. Melvin
Fassett, James Sherman
Fernhof, Frederick James
Fletcher, Francis Alden
Flint, George Mooar
Flora, Charles Aaron
Ford, Charles Wallace
Forrest, Sterling Price, Jr.
~·orsyth, Geo::ge Thomas
Fortin, Octavius Victor
Fortin, Victor Lazare
Foseing, John Charles
Foster, Granville Franklin
Foster, Henry Emerson
Foster, Newel Kelley
Fox, Fred Kinsman
France, Henry Wallace
Francis, Leon Chapman
Fraser, Loud Scott
Fredrickson, Jobn Gottfried
Frederick, Clarence John
Frederick, Walter Flemmini
French, Robert Ellsworth
Fritsch, Emil
Frost, William Thomas
Furniss, Herbert Olmsted
Garibaldi, William Joseph
Oauge. William Arthur
Gee, Edgar Frederick
Gelder, David
Gelder, John
George, Elias Overman
Gibbs, Alfred Kane
Gilbert, Ethan Allen

117

118
Glascock, John Ragland, P, M.
Glenn, Alexander Glenn
Glenn, John Quinn
Golton, James Thomas
Good, Carl Edward
Goodwin, Robert Henry
Gorrill, Chester Lawrence
Gowing, Frederick Augustus
Grant, George
Grauss, Benjamin Franklin
Gray, George Adam
Gray, Harry Paul
Gray, Martin Luther
Green, Harry Elmer Elsworth
Green, Jacob Samuel
Greene, Samuel Hartley
Greenebaum, William Bernard
Greenwell, William Matthew
Griffin, Edmund Wait
Griffin, Henry Thomas
Griswold, Lee Swaney
Gross, Clauae
Gross, William G. C.
Gulick, Charles Francis, P. M.
Gustafsen, Crest
Hack, George Dalliba
Hack, John Joseph
Haelke, Helwig Leopold
Haine~", Emile Charles
Haggard, Joseph Louis
Hahn, James Dyer
Haight, Horace Howard
Hall, Anson Parsons
Hall, Charles Frederick
Hall, Edward Masser, Jr.
Hall, Ellis Gray
Hall, Hiram Tubbs
Hall, Leon Eugene
Hall, Norman Walter
Hall, Percy Weller
Hall, Samuel Pike
Hammond, Bennett Woodroft
Hammond, Frederick William
Hanmore, George Albright
Hansen, John

ROSTER

ROSTER
Hanson, Claude Melnotte
Hanson, Samuel Gray
Hardenbergh, Percy Brush
Hardwick, Edward Newcomb
Hardy, William Henry
Harlan, Robert Judkin
Harlow, William Sturtevant
Harrie, Joseph Charles
Hart, Edward I:renry, P. G. M.
Harvey, Norval Playfair
Haselbacher, Louis Carl
Hatfield, William Richy, P. M.
Haven, Charles Edward, P. M.
Hawbaker, Clayton Henry
Hawley, Stuart Samuel
Hayes, Daniel David
Heam, Frank
Heermance, Joseph Garfield
Heeseman, Charles John
:tJelfer, Howard Tayler
Hemler, Charles Cadmus
Henry, James Thomas
Herrick, LeRoy Francis
Hersey, Elisha Atkins
Hersey, Frederick Howe
Hess, Philip Henry, Jr.
Hesse, Walter John
Heuer, Gustav Adolph R.
Hewitt, Robert Ethelbert
Hickmott, Robert
Hicks, George Henry
Hilbourn, Theodore Osgood
Hildebrand, George DeFor<ist
Hill, Magnus Peter
Hillman, Arthur Constantine
Hitchcock, Erastus Kirk
Hodges, Alfred Coggin
Hoffman, Martin Meno, P. M.
Holladay, Sherman Edgar
Holland, Arthur Percy
Holmes, Thomas Blakeney
Hooe, Headley Smith
Hoppen, Alfred
Horner, Andrew Long
Horton, John Rodboe

Hosmer, Abel
Hoster, George W.
Hough, Frank B.
Howell, Theodore Morris
Hubbard, William Grover
Hudson, Leland Frank
Hufschmidt, Walter Gustav D.
Hughes, Arthur Chester
Hume, William Robert
Hunt, Edwin Goddard
Hunt, Andrew Tanner
Hunt, Joseph Hancock
Hunt, Walter Winslow
Hurd, Frank Morgan
Hutchinson, Arthur
Hutchinson, Dwight
Hyde, Clarence
Hyde, Marcus Darius, P. M.
Ingham, George Howard
Inskeep, Lorenzo Dow Steward
Irgens, Louis Steaven
·
James, Charles Albert
James, David William
James, Edmond H.a rrison
.Tellett, Morgan Woodward
Jenkins, John Arthur
John, Jenkin Bevan
Johnson, Benjamin Herbert
Johnson, Benjamin Oliver
Johnson, Charles Henry
Johnson, Edward Clarence
Johnson, James Arthur
Johnson, Murrey Levering
Johnson, Warren Leslie
Johnson, William
Johnston, John Frederick, Jr.
Jordan, Frank Chester
Jordan, John Benjamin
,Judd, George Lucian
Kelly, Charles Marsh
Kendall, Frank Irving
Kerr, Louis Cormick
Kimball, Edwin Boyce
Kirkpatrick, Clyde
Kjelsberg, Karl Magnus

119

Klumpp, Emil Carl
Knapp, Charles Richard
Knight, Frederick Wales
Knowles, J ease Baker .
Koford, Henning
Kohler, Henry Herman
Kupser, Herbert Milton
Kurtz, William
Kyte, George Joseph Douglas ··
Lackie, George Steele
Laing, Orlando Judson
Lancaster, Joseph
Lang, William
Lanyon, James
LarRieu, ~dmond Augustus
Laughland, John
Leach, Abraham Powell, P. M.
Leach, Francis Aleamon, Jr.
Leber, Albert Lewis
Leber, Henry
Lefevre, Louis Anton
Leonard, Harvey Hart
Lisle, John Quincey
Liljenberg, Frank Otto
Logan, Walter Edward
Lpher, George Thom.as
, · . ·, .' ·
Lund, Hans Nicolai Petersen.. • · .
Lund, Jobn
,1
MacDougall, :Peter
Macintire, William Nelson
Maddox, Perry Ellsworth
I •
Madsen, Albert
Madsen, Henry Larsen
..
Makins, James Nicholas, Jr . ... .. ·
Makins, Jose~ Henry
., · .. "
Manasse, August
11
:• ' •
Manuel, Walter Grisw.old, P. Jl[, .,j , , ·
Maricich, Louis Nicholas.· · • · ·'·
Martin, Ernest
" . ;, .
Martin, Charles Marmaduke ·
.•
Mast, Alta E .
Masters, Sawyer Hayward . "
Mathisen, Mathew Ha1old
Matthews, Francis Ima
Mauvais,. Roy

...

,•

.

120

ROSTER

McAllister, Allister
Mc:Cargar, Jesse B.
McCnrron, David
McClelland, Bruce Kelly
McClurg, James Allen
McClymonds, John William, P. M.
McCord, Thomas.
McCready, Frederick Lee
McCullagh, Edwin James
McGowan, Warren Emerson
McKen.zie, William
McKinnon, John Robert
McKissick, H1Jrry Hanna
McPherson, Alexander Lewis
McPike, Henry Clay
Megraw, John
Meei, Rodolph Wallace, P. M.
Meese, Constant ·
Merwin, Charles Wallace
Merwin, Edward Green
Metcalf, Victor Howard
Miller, Michael
Miller, Montgomery Kinzie
Miller, Washington J.
Mills, Willard Cooke, Jr.
Milner, Charles Harold
Mitchell, Claudius Hamilton
Mitchell, John
Moffitt, Albert Hubbard
Moore, Arthur Wilder
Moore, Charles William
Morton, Harry
Mott, Frank Kanning, P. M.
Murman, Peter
Naismith, George Semple
Neal, William Franklin
Neale, Charles Arthur
Neher, Dtmsmuir S-ager
Nelson, Floyd Ormand
Nelson, James Wesley
~ettle,on, Corliss Eugene
Newman, William Arthur
Newsom, Joseph Cather
Nor, August Christian
Nordhausen, Carl Christia-n

Nicholson, Walter Ephraim
Nielsen, Knud
Nissen, August Fred
Noack, Harry Richard
Northey, Vernal Sidney
"Nottage, Frank Melville
Ogden, Frank Burroughs, P. M.
Olds, Frank
Osgood, Frederick Smith
Overend, Edmund John
Owen, William Henry Searles
Page, Alva Francis
Paine, Herman
Palmer, .Tohn Irving
Palmer, Oscar Burnett
Pangburn, Charles Wade
Park, John Allan, P. M.
Parratt, Alfred Pennington
Parrish, Charles Champion
Parrish, Norman Adolph
Parrish, W'ilfred Edward
Patrick, Andrew Robertson
Patterson, Albert Lewis Crandall
Paulson, Walfred Louis
Pease, Joseph Loran
Pedrini, Joseph Massimino
Pendleton, Erastus Otis
Perigo, Oliver Elbridge
Perkins, Clement George
Perkins, Frederick King
Peters, Martin Orrin
Peterson, John Laurence
Peterson, Rasmus
Phillips, John
Pierce, George Seneca
Pierce, John Hiram
Piercy, Arthur Thomas
Pierson, Thomas Washington
Pilling, James William
Pirie, Jesse Franklin
Pollitt, James
Pitman, Benjamin
Posey, Addison Cornelius
Potts, James Alexander
Povelsen, Niels

ROSTER
Russell, Edward Knight
Pratt, William Herbert, P. M.
Rust, Clement Parker
Price, Wallace Covert
Rutherford, David
Pri.c hard, Thomas
Rutley, Byron
Proctor, David Archibald
. Sack, Herbert Henry
Purves, John
Sack, Herman Frederick
Rabe, John
Sagehorn, George Theodore
Railton, Edward Charles JameG
Samuels, Isaac Julius
Rainey, James Henry
Saulpaugh, William Eugene
Randol, Allanson Merwin
Schafer, John Herman
Randolph, George Emerson
Schaffer, I.ouis
Rasmusen, William August
Scharz, Richard Emil
Reed, Elisha James
Scott, Austin Cairrington
Reed, Frank Markwood
Seemann, Theodore Henry
Reed, Walter Dickson
Seese, John Siegfried
Reinhardt, Joseph
Sellmer, Charles John
Reinhart, Eugene John
Seulberger, John Frederick
Heinle, George Gottlieb
Shakespeare, James
Revalk, Richmond Emil
Shane, Charles Nelson
Reynolds, Albert Barnard
Shannon, James Madison
Reynolds, Charles Adams
Shaug, Marcus Luther
Reynolds, Fred Eugene
Shaw, Lucien Woolfolk
Reynolds, Guy Duncan, P. M.
Shepherd, Robert Lee
Reynolds, Josiah Spalding
Shindler, David Doddridge
Reynolds, Walter Dilatush
Shulte, Albert Franklin, P. M.
Rhodes, Alexander Gordon
Sibbett, William Ryan
Roach, Henry Patrick
Sibley, Benjamin Clarence
Robbins, Henry Russell .
Slemin, Charles
Robertson, Arthur James
Robins, Frederick Charles Hamilton Smith, Benjamin John
Robinson, Edward Constant, P. M. Smith, Edward Charles
Smith, Frank Tallant
Robinson, Jones McGregor
Smith, Hugh Lynn
Robinson, William Simpson
Smith, Reginald George
Rodda, William James
Smith, Wager Swayne, P. M.
Roe, Alpheus Elatus
Sneathen, William Bond
Roeth, George
Snyder, Andrew Jackson
Roff, Harry Loren
Sohst, Carl .Tohn
Rogers, Josiah Barnes
Somps, Jules
Ross, Horace Potter
Southard, William Freeman
Roth, Gustav John
Spaulding, Milton Elias
Rowell, Clarence Fellows
Spence, Brainard Lee
Rowland, Frank Henry
Standeford, William Bert
Rowland, Snowden Hill
Stark, George John William
Rowlands, Clement Phillip
Starr, Robert Emmet
Ruediger, Julius, Jr.
Starrett, Frederick Lester
"Rumfelt, Clarenee Prentiss

121

122
Stevens, John William
Stewart, John Lealand
Stolp, Fred Augustua
Stromgren, Charles Delbert
Stuart, Percy Rankin
Summers, Rollin Allen
Sutherland, ~dwin
Swain, Clinton Terry
Swauger, Arthur Bruce
Swauger, Delmar Denio
Swauger, Harry Lesel
Symmons, Samuel James
Taft, Archibald George
Tainter, Garro} Anson
Tallman, James Rosco
Tayler, James Howard
Taylor, Felton
Taylor, Fred Butterworth
Taylor, John Joseph
Thompson, Thomas
Thompson, William Woodward
Thurston, Eugene True, Jr.
Tillson, Fred Minot
Timerman, Edwin Campbell
Todd, Alonzo Lewis
Todd, Francis Joseph
Tower, Charle1 Knibloe
Townes, John Franklin
Tozer, Charles Francis
Trathen, Albert Harris
Trathen, Frederick William
Treadwell, Charles Graner
Trenschel, August l<'rederick
Trotter, John
Trow, Charles Lloyd
Troy, John Henry
Tucker, Francis Marion
Turner, Aaron
Turner, Egbert Judson
Turner, Walter
T·urrell, Herbert Newton
Uhl, George, Jr.
TTmphrP.'1. Frank Morrie
Umphred, Joseph Wilson
Vance, James, P. M.

ROSTER
Veaco1 James Frederick
Veitch, William Thomas
Victor, Charles Harris
von Adelung, Edward
Walker, George Cook
Walker, Harry Lindley
Walker, Percy .John
Walker, William Abner
Wallace, Frederick James
Warner, Elon Lafayette
Warner, Glenn Boyer
Warner, Junia Josiah, P. M.
Waycott, William Bowden
Webber, Joseph Francie Ruggles
Webster, Albert Bradford, P. M,
Weed, Mortimer Handley
Weil, Leopold Reginald
Wentworth, Franklin Judson
West, William Denison ·
Westover, Clinton
Wheeler, Roscoe
White, Carlos Greenleaf
White, John Gurney
White, Robert Macmillan
White, Warren Sears
White, William Jasper
White, William Thornton
White, Willard Woodard
Whitney, Frederick Lowe .
Whyte, Malcolm Calvin
Wie<lereheim, Chae. Fred Herman
Wight, Frederick Gordon, P. M.
Wiggin, Charles Maynard
Wilkins, Fred Ellis
Wilkinson, Edward Melville
Willeford, David Samuel
Williams, Ernest Deane
Williams, Harry Greeley
Williams, Nicholas
Willis, Arthur D.
Wilson, James Henry
Wishart, William Albert
Witherspoon, Robert Hamilton
Wixson, Robert Stanton
Wolbold, John Henry

123

ROSTER
Wollitz, Ernest Alfred
Wood, Charles Henry, P. M.
Wood, Herbert Anthony
Woodward, Francis John
W oolner, Benjamin Franklin
Wulzen, Edgar Franklin

GAttrell, Frank Jerome

Wylie, John Wallace
Wythe, Stephen
Wythe, Willson Joseph
Yule, .John
Zabel, Carl Julius

-685
WITHDRAWN:
Parker, Oscar Obediah W.

DIED:
Bistorious, Albert
Irwin, John Clark
Flather, Arthur Bruee
McMullen, John Cornelius
Griffith, William Edwin
Phipps, William Henry
Hall, Joseph Lee
Stuart, Arthur Leslie
Thompson, Fra nk Robert
0

GEORGE WASHINGTON LODGE, No. 62.
Chinese Camp, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon,
OFFICERS:

Walter Scott Brown, Master,
Roscoe Follansbee, Chaplain,
Chinese Camp, Cal.
Henry Goudge, Senio-r Deacon,
Frederick William Geiner, Sm. W., William James Settree, Junior Deac.,
Henry Martin Menke, Jun. Warden, James Hooper, Marshal,
George Nelson Porter, Treasurer,
Edwin Kemp, Steward,
Saul Morris, Secretary,
Thomas James Williams, Steward,
Chinese Camp, Cal.
.Simon U. Goudge, Tyler.
MEM.HERS:
George, James
Adams, Charles Delbert, P. M.
Goudge, Henry, P. M.
Anthony, Richard David
Goudge, Simon Uren
Bluett, Samuel Thomas
Gregory, Henry
Bolton, Edwin Robert
Greiner, Frederick William
Brown, Walter Scott
Hooper, James
Bryson, James Lafayette
Ingalls, Elmer Olander
Carrah, Alfred Marshall
Covert, William Percy
Ingalls, George H.
Jacobs, Adolph A.
Crandall, Elbert M.
Joy, Walter Frank
Elliott, Charles Arthur Nelson
Keith, Charles Peter, P. M.
Evans, Isaac Henry, P. M.
Keith, Benjamin Franklin, P, M,
Follansbee, Roscoe, P. M.

124

ROSTEN

ROSTER

Kelly, Michael D.
Kemp, Edwin
Leahy, Richard John
Lewis, William Terrill
Menke, Henry Martin
Morris, Saul, P. M.
Orcutt, Alpheus Sherman
Palmer, Edgar Thomas
Penrose, Richard C.
Porter, George Nelson, P. M.
Russell, Thomas John

Settree, William James, P. M.
Smith, Isaac Ward, P. M.
Smith, John Alexander, P. M.
Smith, William Henry
Snowden, Paul Ward
Stratton, Daniel Edgar
Tyte, Charles Thomas
Vail, Herbert Eugene, P. M.
White, Jeffries
Williams, Thomas .James

-45

WITHDRAWN:
Giles, Alfred Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Campbell, Charles Rufus

NATOMA LODGE, No. 64.
Folsom, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Samuel Dowdin, Master,
W. J. Waites, Senior Deacon,
Folsom, Cal.
W. H. Comstock, Junior Deacon,
Solomon Wahrhaftig, Sen. Warden, George K. Edwards, Steward,
William Cruickshank, Ju11. Warden, R. B. Wall, Steward,
E. R. Levy, Treasurer,
F. P. Burnham, Marslial,
N. C. J. R. Clemensen, Secretary, George Imhof, Tyler.
Folsom, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Anthony, Harry
Baker, (,'}inton Mandeville
Barton, Hiram Emmett
Bauer, Gustav Adolph
Bean, William Robert
Belcher, Lacey Frank
Bell, Charels Andrew
Blanchard, John Ernest, P. M.
Brobst, James Lorenzo
Broder, Jacob
Broder, Walter

Burnham, Frederick Parker, P. M.
Burnham, James Henry, P. M.
Cater, George Peter
Clemensen, Hans Christian J. R,.
P.M.

Cohn, Philip Charles
Cruickshank, William
Daggett, Martin Van Buren
Darling, Charles
Dowdin, Samuel, P. M.
Drollinger, James William

Duchow, Marteen Casper
Dunkley, Louis Palmer
Ecklon, Charles Henry, P. M
Ecklon, Christian Frederick
Ecklon, Lorenz Gottfried
Edwards, Hugh Roberts
Ferguson Frederick Franklin
Fiel, Isaac
Forney, John Westley
Gabriel, John Henry
Gillespie, Arend ,Harry
Grubbs, Grover Cleveland
Hagadorn, Samuel Asa
Hall, Harry William, P. M.
Hesser, George Turner, P. M.
Hollingsworth, Lewis Washington
Hough, Horace Carle
Imhoff, George
Joerger, Joseph
Keefe, Robert
King, John Henry
Levy, Edward Rogers
McFarland, Ray Dudley
McKenzie, Philip
Miller, Emil
Miller, Osca!' Jacob
Morse, Henry Eastman

Nourse, Beverly Stephen
Palmer, Eugene Grant
Parker, Theodore Clifford
Parks, Leonard Nelson
Phoenix, Edward Chauncey
Pegg, Milan Arthur
Plumb, William Boardman
Powell, John Henry
Prigmore, Joseph Riley
Riddle, Jerry Boggs
Simmons, William Anthony, P. M.
Smith, Nels Peter
Stamper, Simon, P. M.
Staunton, Frederick William
Stinson, Leon Ferguson
"Trentman, Henry John
Vance, Charles Cameron
Wahrhaftig, Joseph
Wahrhafiig, Peter Samuel
Wahrhaftig, Solomon
\
Waites, William John
Wall, Edwin Taylor
Warnholz, Frederick Wm:
Wiley, David Elbridge
Wubbena, Nicholas ·G 'errett
Yoerk, Frederick Albert

WITHDRAWN:
Calder, William

Ecklon, Christiliil : Ludwig

125

DIED:
Pierce, John Alva

.

126

ROSTER

ROSTER

Williams, John S. B.
Williams, Matthew
Williams, Nathan Pierson
Wilson, Jay Fremont, P. M.
Witte, Albert William
Wood, Fred V.
Zumbiel, Edwin V.

Strohm, Jacob
Strohm, John
Taylor, Frank Augustus
Taylor, Jamee Ernest
Taylor, Walter Howard
Tibbits, Jamee Hallar
Tretheway, John
Trevaekie, Edwin Jamee

AMADOR LODGE, No. 65.
Jackson, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Thomas Brewer, Master,
Fred V. Wood, Chaplain,
Jackson, Cal.
William Gilman Snyder, Sen. Deac.,
Myron Berriman Matson, Sen. War., Charles Joseph Head, Jun. Deacon.,
John S. B. Williams, Jun. Warden, Myron Shaw Matson Marshal
John Henry Langhorst, Treasurer, Nathan Pierson Willi~ms StC-:,ard
Robert Ira Kerr, Secretary,
William K. McFarland, S;eward, '
Jackson, Cal.
Jacob Strohm, Tyler.

Geirmann, Charles

Mattly, David

MEMBERS:
Barrett, Arthur Clifford, P. M.
Kelly, Thomae
Bianchetti, Bartolomeo
Kent, Walter Edwin, P. M.
Bole, Robert Chambers, P. M.
Kerr, Robert Ira, P. M.
Brewer, William Thomas
Langhorst, John Henry
Brown, George Washington
Laughton, James Augustine, P. M.
Caminetti, Anthony
Lindley, Curtis Holbrook
Detert, William Ferdinand
Lucot, George Washington, P. M.
Marcucci, Paolo
DiVecchio, Liberatp
Doman, George Franklin
Matson, Myron Berriman
Dragolovich, William
Matson, Myron Shaw, P. M.
Duden, Frank Harmon
McFarland, William K.
Dye, Jamee Edward, P. M.
McKenzie, Cory Amberson
Eskew, Walter Elliott
McLaughlin, Jesse Allen
Eudey, Alexander
Myers, Eugene Clifton
Farnsworth, Eldridge Calvin
Newman, Leopold
Fry, Donald Hume
Osborne, Henry
Gall, Alexander Marshall, P. M.
Ould, John, P. M.
Giusto, John
Parke, Jamee Franklin
Goldsworthy, Richard Alfred
Penry, William Milton
Hanell, William Frederick
Peter, William DeWitt
Harrington, Emerson Hull
Peters, Wm. James
Harrie, Jamee, P. M.
Radovich, Nicholas
Rugne, Raphael
Harvey, William
Head, Charles Joseph
Ruheer, Frederick William
Heiser, Charles Guido
Schacht, Carl William, P. M.
Hensley, Frank Arthur
Spagnoli, Diovol Benedetto, P. M.
Hipkins, William Asbury
Spagnoli, Sylvester G., P. M.
1ewell, Sidney Edward
Spagnoli, Urbano G. D.
Samuels, J oeeph
Keagle, Lorentee Nevin

127

-73
WITHDRAWN:
Parker, Clarence Frederick
DIED:
Parker, Fred~rick Wardner

FOREST LODGE, No. 66.
Alleghany, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Thomas P. Fleming, Master,
Alleghany, Cal.
Lewis Barnes, Senior JVarden,
John Franklin Lotspiech, J. Ward.,
Elmer Samuel Brindel, Treasurer,
Charles W .. Smith, Secretary,
Alleghany, Cal.

Hugh Roderick McDougal, Chaplain,
John Henry Coleman, Sen. Deacon,
Henry William L. Kinkel, Juti. Deac.,
Ezra Leroy Crafts, Marshal,
Charles B. Scheffer, Steward,
William Davies, Steward,
Daniel McKenzie, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Fitzgerald, John James
&rnes, Louis
Fleming, Thomas Peter
Brown, Chester Warren
Goodwin, James Willis
Brown, Horace H.
Howard, Victor L. V.
Brown, Walter Calvin
Hunt, Jamee F.
Binning, Charles
Irvine, Leonard, P. M.
Brindle, Edward S., P. M.
J enkine, Thomas Henry
Coleman, John Henry, P. M.
Johnson, Henderson L., P. M.
Crafts, Ezra Leroy
Kinkle, Henry William Lewie
Davies, Frank
Locey, Frederick Augustus
Davies, William
Lotspiech, John Franklin
Ellis, Thomae
Malone, Roland C.
Fessler, George Samuel
Marcotte, Frederick Louie
Fitzgerald, Andrew
McCullough, Joseph Johnson
Fitzgerald, Walter

...

128

ROSTER

Rowlands, Trevor T •
.McGregor, James
.McDougall, Hugh Roderick, P. M. Scheffer, Charles Basil
Smith, Charles Wesley
McKenzie, Daniel
Spear, Harry
.Murray, Thomas J., P. M.
Owens, John Foulk
Wheeler, William R . .Morrison
Patteson, Thomae Adkins
Wyllie, Michael Galloway, P. M.
-41
Reilly, Jamee D.

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68.
Stockton, San Joaqu1n County.
Stated .Meetings, Second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Mitchell Hardenbrook, Mas., Jesse Ward Wheatley, Sen. Deacon,
416 E. Jefferson St.
Arthur Laurine Tredway, J. Deac.,
Elmer Hoover McGown, Sen. Ward., Hubert Hamilton Briggs, Marshal,
John Randolph Humphreys, J. Ward., Arthur Gilbert Ross, Steward,
Edward Clement Stewart, Trea.Nl1"e1\_ Reuben Charles Pardoe, Steward;
George Howe Buttrick, Secretary, Hiram Francis F. Merrill, Tyler.
Box 494, Stockton.
Acker, George Racine
Adame, John Roy
Allen, Herbert Dunning
Anderson, Ray Leonard
Atwood, John Perry
Atwood, Leroy Smith
Aubry, Alvin Emaneua
Bacheller, Ralph Milford
Backus, William •James
Bagley, Daniel, Jr. •
Bagley, Nicholas
Ball, Charles, P. M.
Barber, Frank Wilton
Bainbridge, .Tames Abealom
Baker, Clarence Clark
Barkie, Henry Bruce
Barnhart, Earl Winghert
Bauer, Herman
Bearce, Byron Antecelle
Beasley, Charles
Behan, James, Jr.

MEMBERS:
Bennett, Louis Albert
Bessac, Henry Wm., Jr., P. M.
Beseac, Hamilton Bremner
Blake, George Shepherd
Blewett, William Catlett
Bolin, Floyd Crawford
Bonney, John Allen
Boyer, Thomae Alexander
Brandt, Charles Henry William
Briggs, Hubert Hamilton, P. M.
Buckley, William Duncan
Butters, Edgar Warren, P. M.
Buttrick, George Howe, P. M.
Cail, Edward Isman
Campbell, Joseph Claybaugh
Carson, Edgar Consider
Castle, Durrett Oliver, P. M.
Catts, George Elbert
Clark, George James
Cole, Robert Watson
Cole, William Henry

ROSTER
Colline, Elmer Willard
Craig, Judson Law
Cureton, Edward
Curtis, Harry Sidney
Dameron, John Dyaarte
Davidson, Robert
Derr, John Obediah
Ditz, George
Dodge, Horace Fraucis, P. M.
Duffy, Francis Willard
Dunbar, Joshua Cottrell
Duncan, Carey Roes
Eddy, John Henry
Early, Clarence Erwin
Edwards, William Moody
Ellis, Frank Everts
Ferguson, Alexander Franklin
Ferguson, Kenneth Tyler
Ferguson, william Edward
Ferguson, William Percival
Fitzgerald, William Wesley
Fiola, Frank Joseph
Fletcher, Williard Franklin
Fothergill, Milner Reginald
Fowler, Weldon .Mason
Freitas, Joseph B., P. M.
Frisbie, William Burton
Fyfe, Joseph Sr.
Gaines, Frank Stewart
Garden, William D.
Gardiner, Fred Orin
Gazzolo, Victor
Geary, ThomaR Jay, Jr.
Gerow, Albert Percival
Gibson, Edward
Gibson, Wallace John
Grant, Charles Binoue
Grattan, John
Grose, William Walter
Grupe, George Washington, P. M.
Gummer, Frank Alford
Haight, Lewis Montrose
Hale, Leigh Ernest
Happell, John
9

129

Hardenbrook, George Mitcllell
Hart, Charles B.
Harry, Charles Reese
Hawthorne, John Bradford
Hedges, Edward Richard, P. M.
Henderson, Orrin Staples, P. G. M.
Herbert, Benjamin Edward
Hersom, Walter Scott
Hodgkins, Sidney Newell
Holt, Pliny Eastman
Homage, G.eorge
Hornung, Fred William
Howe, Harry Newton
Howland, Oliver Melville
Hudson, George Francis,P. M ,
Hull, Octavius Haymond
Humphreys, John Randolph
Hunter, George Glass
Israel, Frank Sherman, P . M.
Jenkins, Edward Earl
Jones, Paul
Keagle, Adelbert Grant
Kenyon, Percy
Keyes, Henry Calcutt, P. M.
Kidd, James Edward
Knight, Henry Leland
Knight, Robert Brittain, P. M.
Krog, Peter Christian
Langridge, George Washington
Latta, William Harrold
Leffler, William Henry Ebenezer
Leistner, George Washington
Leonard, Arthur Edward
Love, Harry Belford
Lnngo, Frank
Ludlow, William Berridge
Lyon, Lemuel Elisha
Lyon, William Herbert
Madden, Cassius Dougln.s
Madsen, Peder Junget
Martin, Irving
.Matthews, David Sterrett
.Matteson, William Haskell
Mayes, Thomas Berry

HOSTEH
ROSTER
MccaJ, Frilncis Asbury
Roesch, George Frederick
McGaughey, James DeLaskey
Rogers, William Francis
Rol!1l, Arthur Gilbert
McGowan, Arthur Wayne
McGowan; Elmer Hoover
Rosenberger, Arthur C.
McKenzie, 'George Alexander, P. M. Ross, Findel :A.Ian
McLeod, Donald
Rnss, Neil Irvon :
McShea, ''George Earl
Ruff, Snmuel Francis
Merrill, Hiram Francis F., P. M.
Russell, Richard William
Merrill, Lewis Elmer
Ryland, Samuel Vinton
Meyer, Herman Carson
Senter, Willis Riley
Michaele, Benjamin Keefe
Shepherd, James Shield
Miller, Cltnrles Allen
Six, Clarence Logan .
Miller, John Henry, P. M.
Skinner, Eugene Napoleon
Mittick, Walter Leslie
Smith, Albert Lorenzo
Moore, John William
Smith, Lee Russell
Muenter, August Edward
Smith, William Franklin
Myrick, John Edwin
Smythe, James Hudson
Nelson, 'l'homas Alvin
Southrey, John Nicholas
Neumifler, Charles Louis
Southworth, Henry Edgar
Nilson, Charles August
Spooner, John Pitcher Jr.
Noble, Arthur Morgan
Stamper, Louie Oscar
Noble, Edward Banks
Stark, Lyman Oliver
Nye, William Douglas
Stanley, Harry Clyde
Oranges, Geremia
Starkweather, Ruben Edward
Pardoe, Rueben Charles
Stewart, Edward Clement, P. M.
Parks, Robert Walter
Stitt, Philemon Herbert
Patchen, Warren
Sutherland, Charles
Swain, Joseph Henry
Peart, Luke, W., P. M.
Petersen, Henry Christian
Taggart, Henry Wallace
Peterson, Charles John Renholdt
Tredway, Arthur Lourine
Tripp, William Osial
Petzinger, Anthony William
Tschierschky, E. M. Louis
Phillipe, Arthur Leslie
Tully, Elmer Leslie
Philo, William Elisha
Turner, George Clinton
Pope, Oscar Clinton
Powell, Barton Jerome
Turner, Franklin Chester
Powell, Harrold Clarke
Vale, Baldwin
Van Sandt, Walter Scott
Raggio, Peter
Ray, Daniel Francis
Visher, PJitman
Reid, Robert Asa
Waddle, George Albert
Rhodes, Allen Lee
Waiker, Benjamin Franklin
Richardson, William Ernest
Walker, Lon Morrison
Richey, Elmer Raines
Warren, Frank Grandberry
Ritchie, Robert
Waters, William Hall
Robinson, Isaac Newton
Weber, August Frederick William
Roe, John Franklin
Westlake, Frank Harloe

Wheatley, Jesse Ward
White, Harry Smart
Wilhoit, Roley Earley
Williams, Arthur Reese
Williams, Ansel Smith

J31

Williams, John Robert
Wilson, Robert Finlay
Woolner, Frederick William
Wright, Edward Lorenzo
Yardley, John, P. M.
WITHDRAWN:

Borders, Isaac Dougherty

Cross, 8amuel Nelson
Wagner, Solomon

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gersbacher, Joshua Barr
Lane, Frank Ellis
DIED:
Brown, Philip Thomas
Bennett, Paul Watherly
Campbell, Henry Riley

Howe, Charles Edward
Lang, Lewis Hawkins
Shan k, J ames
Verdon, Frank January

ENTERPRISE LODGE, No. 70.
Yuba City, Sutter County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full M

oon.

OFFICERS:
Carl Gearhardt Ott, Master,
Fred Buzzell N
. .
Yuba City Cal
Ed
oyes, Chaplain,
'
·
·
ward
Eugene
Proper
s D
E dward Talman Hughes S. Ward William Sh
J . , en. eac.,
F
·
·•
earer,
un1or
Deacon
.
'
.
L esIie arr1ee Spilman Jun Ward Will1"am H
Ch'
,
T
'
·
.,
enry
ism Marshal
G
eorge homas Boyd, Treasurer,
Pleasant William R , S
,
Dallas Damon Green, Secretary
S owe, teward,
y b c·
' Bennett SCh'JJ'
I 1g,
leward
u a ity, Cal.
Ogilvie Moncu' r , T y Ier. '
MEMBERS:
Albert, Daniel Wesley ·
Albertson, James Crump
Ashley, Lloyd C.
Ashley, Jay W., P. M.
Ashley, Luther
Bailey, Arthur
Barrett, Eugene T.
Barrett, Walter Lee
Bayne, Richard, P. M.
Benchley, William Wallace

Berry, Frank Oris
Best, Henry
Bird, Will Francis p ' M
Boyd, Eugene Ma:vi~ ·
Boyd, George Thomas
Bremer, Frank Gus
Brockman, John Henry
Bunce, Leon Mark
Burgess, Chester Crowell
Burgett, Oliver Perry, P. M.

ROSTER

132

133

ROSTER

Carpenter, Robert Anderson
Carpenter, William Rennie, P. M.
Chadwick, Latkin Hopkins
Chism, Phillips Grover
Chism, William Henry
Clark, Henry Wilmoth
Clark, Howard Clifton, P. M.
Clements, Joseph Banks
Clements, William Andrew
Clyma, Thomas Sanford
Coats, Mack Colvin
Davis, Robert
DeWitt, Clintqn Jacob
DeWitt, Frank William
DeWitt, Marcus Golder
De Witt, Richard Clarence
DeWitt, William Golder
Dick, Charles Gillette
Duncan," John Atkinson
Duncan, John Lewis
Ensign, Frank Milo
Fields, Charles Beccom
Fraser, Samuel
Girdner, Mark Anderson
Gottwals, William
Graffis, Alonzo, P. M.
Grant, James Douglas
Grant, Seaforth
Graves, Frank Henry
Gray, Albert Donald, P. M.
Gray, James Care
Gray, Samuel
Gray, William Jackson
Green, Dallas Damon, P . M.
Gregg, Martin Van Buren
Griffith, Irwin
Haussinger, Juline
Hauss, Ferdinand
Heiken, John Bantas
Heiken, Hobart William
Hewitt, Arthur Hathaway, P. M.
Hughes, Edward Talman
Hull, Royal Chandler
Hunter, Alexander Lashbrook
Harter, Clyde Banta, P. M.

Hansen, John Henry
Hendrick, Robert Calvin
Hetherington, Frank William
Hughes, John Tomilson
Humphreys, William Clayton
Jacks, John
Kees, John Oliver
Kells, Robert Cornelius
Kells, Robert Norman
Kimball, Allen Holmes
Kimba1I, George Herbert
Kimball, John Franklin
Kofod, Edward Alfred
Kline, Charles Greer
Kline, Claude Cecil
Kirk, William Archibald
Lamme, John Hamilton
Lathrop, George Washington
Littlejohn, Howard Grant
Littlejohn, James Abraham
Lyman, George Byron
Magruder, George Henry
Mahon, Kirby Smith
Manford, William Berkeley
Matteson, Charles
McLaughlin, Alexander Campbell
McLean, Duncan James
McQuaid, Charles Edward, P. M.
McRae, Alexander Arthur
McRoberts, William George
McVey, Thomas Fletcher
Moncur, Hugh Dixon, P. M.
Moncur, Ogilvie
Montna, Peri Bird
Moon, Richard Albert
Noyes, Fred Buzzell, P. M.
Onstott, Fred Arthur
Onstott, John Paxton, Jr., P. M.
Onstott, John Paxton, Sr.
Onstott, Jacob Glen
Orr, James Emanuel
Ott, Carl Gerheardt
Pease, Charles Harris
Pease, George Harris
Peace, Wyman Currier

Peck, William Francis
Tharp, George
Pool, Anthony Wayne
Von Geldern, Edward
Proper, Edward Eugene
Walton, Benjamin Franklin
Ripley, Charles Jackson
Walton, Frank Starr, P. M.
Walton, Fred Day
Rodefer, Jesse Elmer
Rowe, Pleasant William
Walton, Hiram Aaron, Jr.
Walton, Leonard Arthur, P. M.
Sanborn, Miles Edward, P. M.
Walton, Leslie Willard, P. M.
Sanborn, Ralph Edward
Schellenger, Adelbert Edmond
Walton, Oscar Milton
Schillig, Bennett
Walton, Richard
Schillig, Lawrence, P. M.
White, Emery Judson
Schmidt, Erich
Wilcoxon, Baxter Allen
Schuler, Conrad
Wilcoxon, Philip Keyser
Schuler, Melvin A.
Wilkie, James B.
Shearer, William
Wilkie, James Hunter
Sheldon, Charles Munson
Wilkie, Karl Purvis
Soderlund, Noack
Wilbur, Lloyd Hamilton
Spilman, Leslie Fairlee
Williams, Clayton Elsworth, P. M.
Starr, Edward Butler
Williams, Lawrence Davis
Starr, Roy Deboise
Williston, Elijah William
Stephens, William Louis
Wood, Job Kettles
Straub, George Frank
Woodworth, Arthur Gustave, P. M.
Summy, Leonidas
Woodworth, Louis H., P. M.
Tarke, Louis
-157
WITHDRAWN:
Bremer, August Gustav
Freeman, Laverne Lewis
Humphrey, William Emory
Kersey, Thomas Saveree

DIED:
Smith, William Parkhurst
Walton, George

BEAR MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 76.
Angel's Camp, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas H . R. Jones, Master,
Frederick Warren Clough, Chaplain,
Angels Camp, Cal.
Ernest Leo Poupart, Senior J)eacolf,
William Russell Moorehead, Sen. W., William Minard, Junior Deacon,
Hugo Walter Beyer, Junior Warden, James Lagomarsino, Marshal,
George Rose, Treasurer,
Bert Gazzola,. Stewarrd,
John Cooley, Secl'etary,
Columbo Gazzola, Steward,
Angels Camp, Cal.
Robert Hall Ross, Tyler,

134

ROSTER .
MEMBERS:

Adair, Charles Francis, P. M.
Huberty, George
Allen, Theophilus
Jensen, Rasmus Christian
Arendt, Michael
Johnson, Charles Albert
Barden, Harry Roswell
Jones, Thomas Henry Ryon
Beedle, Frederick Charles
Jordan, Shuball Howard
Beer, Chules Frederick
Kavanaugh, John
Belloni, Mark John Baptist
Lagomarsino, James
Bennett, Claud
Lagomarsino, John Peter
Beyer, Hugo Walter
Lillie, Charles Andrew
Blackhart, Fred Gray
Lockman, Francis William
Boarman, Charles
Loring, William Joseph
Bothwell, David Milton
Martin, Fred Julius
Bracco, John Angelo
Martin, James Frank
Brevin, William Henry
Martin, Leonard Lander, P. M.
Brin, Richard Morris
McBride, Charles J ophes
Brower, William Henry
McCurdy, Elliott Steele
Carley, John Hensley
McLaughlin, James Henry
Carlson, Charles Henry
McTarnahan, Carroll
Christensen, Christen Peter
Messenger, Hiram Henry
Cicconello, Louis Angelo
Miller, Valentine William
Clark, Baylies Coleman
Minard, William
Clough, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Monte, Verda Lawrence
Cooley, John
Moore, James Henry
Davey;, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Moorehead, William Russell
Dolling, Otto
Mosgrove, William A.
Drew, Edwin
Orr, John Alfred
Engstrom, Charles Otto
Pache, Edmund Benoit
Fentress, Leslee Hoke
Pattee, Frank Benjamin
Garavagni, John
Patterson, George Wesley
- ·Paup-art, Ernest Leo
Gardner, Robert
Garland, George Drew
Perine, Joseph Fulgenzio
Garrard, Woodson, P. M.
Porter, John Thomas, P. M.
Gazzolo, Bertolomer
Posey, George Addison
Gazzolo, Columbo James
Prothero, Albert
Gonner, John Baptist
Quinn, Thomas Francis
Goodloe, Peyton Verbannus
Reaves, John Edward
Graebe, Alfred Eugene
Richards, Cyrus Wesley
Hall, Algewar Everett
Riedel, Belthaser
Hancock, John
Roberts, Samuel Augustus
Herzberg, August
Rose, George, P. M.
Hogate, Samuel Carter
Rose, Warren
Howell, Morton Temple
Ross, George Ichabod
Huber, Philip

ROSTER
Ross, Robert Hall
Schmal, William Henry
Scofield, . Reginald
Spindel, Stephen
Surrwhittard, Ernest Alfred
Tucker, Richard

135

Wall, James Tillman
Waterman, William Louis
Weirich, Elmer Williams
Williams, Louis Alonzo
Wilson, Albert Crair, P.1 M.

-96.

SUSPENDED , FOR NON-PAYMENT OF .DUES:
I>avis, Jefferson J .
Ratcliffe, Henry
Kuhnen, Andrew
Smith, Thomas N.

Demarest, David Durie

DIED:
Morgans, Philip Morgan

·~

. : •·'f
" '

. :. !

CALAVERAS LODGE, No. 78.

:t

San Andreas, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full ,Moon.

. ·l

OFFICERS:

John Alexander Smith, Master,
John Joseph Halley. Se11ior Deaco1!.•
San Andreas, Cal.
George C. Graves, Jimior Deacon, ..
Fanen Winkler, Senior Warden,
James Keith, Marshal,
John William Dietz, Junior Warden, John Waters, Steward,
Gilbert Pfortner, Treasurer,
Henry Wesson, Steward,
Enos Franklin Floyd, Secretary,
Charles F. Walter, Tyler.
San Andreas, Cal.
Agostini, Jules Joseph
Bacigaluppi, John Augustine
Baird, Frauk
Beal, Frederick Nathaniel
Cademartori, Louis, P. M.
Casey, Edward
Casey, William, P. M.
Cassinelli, David ·
Cavagnaro, David Amile
Cavagnaro, Nicola Joseph
Dasso, Dante Adolphus
Del Re, Henry
Dietz, John William, P. M.
Dominghini, C.
Emery, Earle Caldwell

MEMBERS:
Evans, Job Montgomery
Floyd, Enos Franklin
.• • t .. , •....
..
Ford, William Mitchell . , . , .,:, .- Gargadennec, Co.ronto Geo. ipsep'l;i. :
Gourley, Asa Antho_n y .
,;_.'
Graves, George Christian, P, M.
Halley, John Joseph, :P. M.
Hendrick, George Hugh · ·
Higginbotham, Enos Marion
Holland, Judson AJ'thur, l,". JI«, -...
Jack, James Sylvanus
. , .. ,_ ,,. .
Jenkins, H~zckiah ·
.., ! :,
Keir, Alexander H.
.,.:
Keith, James, P. M.
Krentz, Ernest ·

,.

ROSTER

136
LaRiviere, Wilbrun Eugene
Lewis, Samuel Joseph
Loeffier, Ernest Walter
March, Irwin Beede
March, Roy Vernon
March, William Bright
Messenger, Nelson Cyrus
Mitchell, William Henry
Nulaud, James Andrew
Nuner, William Marble Jr.
Pattee, John Kellog Jr.
Petray, Adolph Gottleib
Pfortner, Gilbert
Ponzetta, Nicola
Preston, Charles, P. M.
Raggio, John
Redm'Jnd, Samuel Edwin
Roberts, David E., P. M.
Salcido,. Ernest

Beal, Charles Robert

Schrack, Henry Clay
Smith, .James Alex., P. M.
Snyder, Charles Peter
Snyder, Jacob Philip, P. M.
Solinsky, Frank Joseph, P. M
Stewart, George Allen
Tiscornia, Chester Joseph
Tiscornia, Frank Elmer
Treat, William Thomas
Vogelgesang, Frederick Ronm·sk
Vogelgesang, Gustave Daniel
Walter, Charles Francis
Waters, George Christopher
Waters, John, P. M.
Wells, Frank Clinton, P. M.
Wesson, Henry
Welch, William W.
Winkler, Fanen
Wyllie, Alfred Loring
-68
DIED:
Saleido, Javier

HUMBOLDT LODGE, No. 79.
Eureka, Humboldt. County.
each month.

~tated Meetings, first Thursday in

OFFICERS:

\Valter Scott Gemmill, Master,
Robert Dale Clark, Cllaplain,
330 Second St., Eureka.
John Abraham Harnett, Sen. Deaco11,
Fr~nk Whitney Belcher, Sen. Ward.., Robert James Sanders, Jun. Deac.,
Herbert Rowell Inskip, Jun. Ward., Edmund Bond, Marshal,
Trustom Ring Dinsmore, Treasurer, John Redmond, Steward,
James Berry Brown, Secretary,
Edward Gustavt•s Johnson, Steward,
625 K Street, Eureka.
Alexander Ranki11, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abrahamsen, Abraham Rudolph
Axe, Frederick
Adams, Frank Richard
Baekenstose, Edward
Barnard, James Edwin
Albee, George Brintoii, P. M.
Andresen, Anden: Olsen
Barnett, Fred Earnest
Barnum, Frank Gorham
Anderson, Charles J o.hn
Anderson, Oscar
Baumgartner, Helore

ROSTER
Beckwith, Frank Walter
Belcher, Frank Whitney
Belcher, Georite Amherst
Belcher, Peter
Bell, Aaron Hayden
Benson, Edwin G.
Benson, Theodore Martin
Berry, Frank Davis
Bjornsen, Karl Selliken
Bond, Edmund, P. M.
Bond, James
Bonetell, Edgar Boynton
Borg, Edward Nelson
Boyd, David Adair
Boyd, William James
Bridges, Floyd Bchetter
Bridges, Henry James
Brown, James Berry, P. M.
Brown, William
Bullock, Bertram Nathaniel
Hullock, Nathaniel
Burch, Elmer Lee
Burnell, Lewis Melvin
Burns, Paul Milton
Campbell, Elmore Pierce
Canham, Frederick Foster
Carson, Charle• Sumner
Carson, George
Carson, John Milton
Cave, Henry Alfred
Chain, John N.
Chapman, Emery Jonathan
Chapman, Stewart James
Christie, George Maxwell
Clark, Robert Dale
Clyborne, W. Prank, P. M.
Cochrane, George Alfred, P. M.
Cockburn, Ernest Augu1tu1, P. M.
Coggeshall, Walter
Conant, Edward
Connick, Clifton Horace
Cooper, Edgar Clarenee
Cooper, Warren Gosselin
Copland, Robert
Correll, Eugene Philipp

Cotter, Thomas
Cottrell, Emile Lester
Cottrell, John Austin
Cousins, George Washington
Cousins, Ithiel Howard
Coyne, Franklin Boyer
Craig, John Alexander
Crockett, John William
Cummings, Cleveland
Cutler, Thomas Barnes, P. M.
Cutten, Charles Pryde
Dinsmore, John Stinson
Dinsmore, Trustom Ring, P. M.
Dorais, Louis Pierre
Douglas, George Carlton
Drew, Charle• Augustus
Drew, Roy Henry
Dungan, Garland Albert
Eddy, John Mathewson
Edwards, Syl..anus David
Elleson, Laurence
Ellis, Charles Starr
Elsner, Charles Henry
Engebretsen, Frederick
Falor, Charles Henry, P. M.
Fanning, John Angus
Fardelius, August William
Fay, Nahum
Felt, Rae, P. M.
Ferguson, Frank Ellsworth
Ferguson, George M.
Fischer, William Howard
Forsey, Joseph Robert
Foster, Seth Burnham
Fowler, Alexander
Fraser, James Thomas
l!'rost, Elmer James
Fulmore, Fenwick Williams
Gale, James Cloyd
Gallop, John Thomas
Gault, James Hunter
Geer, Knyphausen, P. M.
Gemmill, Walter Scott .
Georgeson, Frederick Willia~
Glatt, August Edward

137

138

ROSTER

ROSTER

Graham, W eeley Charles
Gregersen, Gustav Martinius
Griffiths, Griffith, P. M.
Gross, Reuben
Gustin, George Adinoram
Hall, Charles Wellington
Halle, W eeley Darwin
Hamilton, Herbert Weed
Hamilton, John
Hanna, William Patterson
Hansen, Harald Waldemar
Hanson, George Emil
Hardy, Frederick Eugene
Harnett, John Abraham
Haughey, Robert Lincoln
Hauptman, Sidney Morse
Hellberg, Emil Louis
Henderson, George Youla
llendrikeen, Bendix
Henningsen, Carl Frederick August
Heney, William Lawrence
Henry, Robert
Hilfiker, John
Hill, Edward John
Hiller, Benjamin Franklin
Hine, Thomae Walton
Hitchings, Charles Williard
Hollander, Siegfried
Holmes, Robert
Horner, Oscar Alonzo
Horvereid, Peter
Hunter, Geo. Washington, P. G. M.
Hutchins, Robert Walker
Hutchinson, Charles
Imme, William Julius
Inekip, Herbert Rowland
Jensen, Christian Nicolaj
J eneen, George Charles
Johnson, Edward Gustavus
Johnson, John Adolph
Jones, Prentiss Mellen
Kane, Daniel
Kaebohm, Fred John
Kehoe, William
Keller, Charles Frederick

Kincade, Joseph Conrad
King, George Frederick
Kingsbury, Lewie Buoncore
Klein, Sigmund
Knochenhauer, Herman
Lambert, William Lee
Langford, George
Larson, Charles Alfred
Leach, Edward Alva
Lee, Lewie Alfred
LeVaseeur, William Henry
Lever, Thompson R.
Littlefield, Warren Austin
Locke, George
Loewenthal, Jacob, P. M.
Loofbourrow, Thaddeus L.
Madsen, Henry
Malcolm, Eldridge Bowdoin
Manning, Jamee Bennington
?(arlin, Frank
Matheson, Daniel
Maurer, John Lester, P. M.
Maxwell, Sidney Alister
McCann, Charles Frederick
McConnell, Arthur Wellesley
McCord, James Clifford
Mccutcheon, Jamee Gilbert
McCutcheon, Robert
McDonald, John
McGeorge, John Frederick, P M.
McGPorge, Verne Adrian
MeGillivray, William
McKay, Richard
McKay, William
McKee, Ernest Maxwell
McKeehan, Curtin Grant
McKellar, Donald
McKenzie, Peter Mcintyre
McKeown, John
McLaren, Louie F.
McLean, Andrew Paterson
McMillan, Jamee
McMillan, William A.
McMillan, William John
McNamara, William Alex.

McVicar, Jamee
Medill, Walter Pennock
Melendy, John Marvin, P. M.
Melendy, Robert Dale
Metcalf, Curtis Enoch
Metcalf, William Milton
Mitchell, John
Mitchell, John Herbert
Monroe, Alonzo Judson, P. G. M.
Monroe, J oeeph Warren
Morrison, Sanford Benton
Murray, Hugh
Murray, John Sutherland, P. M.
Murray, William Patrick
Nazro, Friink
N elliet, Frank Fletcher
N eleon, Hans Christian
Nelson, Lare August
Nessler, Alex. Magnus
Nessler, Carl Magnus
Nielsen, Niels Peter
Noble, Hugh Jamee
Noe, Albert Conor
Noe, IDyeeee Jesse
Ohman, Adolph
Ohman, Hubert Ferdinand
Ohman, Ignatius Joseph
Ohman, Rudolph
Olsen, Hakon Erick
Oleson, Andere
Orpin, Charles
Palmtag, Christie Henry
Parker, Silas Wiley
Parker, Thomae
Persons, Louie, P. M.
Peterson, Edwin
Pettingill, Edward Foster, P. M.
Petty, Josiah
Pickette, Charles Wyley
Pine, Joe W ell8
Pine, Safford Fay
Pinkerton, Harry Owen
Pinkerton, John M.
Pratt, Walter Henry
Press, Whiting George

•

Price, Jamee Howard
Rankin, Alex.
Ray, Winslow
Redmond, Jamee
Redmond, John
Reinhart, Robert
Rice, Louis
Richmond, Thomas William
Riggs, William Augustus
Roberts, Albert D.
Roberts, Clement
Roberts, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Robinson, Edward James
Robinson, Fred, P. M.
Roethe, George Frederick
Root, Peter
Sanders, Robert James
Schorr, John
Schwartz, Henry Augustus
Sedgley, Alfred Moffitt
Shurtleff, John Thomas
Silence, Frank Arthur
Sinclair, John Archibald
Sinclair, Oliver Willard
Smart, Frederick Milton
Smith, Aaron Bell
Smith, Arthur M., P. M.
Smith, Robert Lee
Soule, Charles Parsons
Speegle, William Nelson
Steele, Samuel James
Stein, Augustus Frederik .
Stern, Lewis Edgar
Stern, Walter Eugene
Stewart, Hugh Byron, P. M.
Stewart, Warren May
Strong, Wallace Bixby
Strong, Wallace Kaloea
Sundquist, Axel
Sundquist, Fred
Swanson; Albert
Tabor, William Henry
Taylor, Charles Guilford
Thomae, Clarence George
Thompson, Chesney Boyd

139

ROSTER

140

Thompson, Hiram Freeman, P . M.
Thompson, Samuel Boyd
Thurston, Eugene Lyndon
Tibbetts, Joseph Kimball
Tooby, George Thomas, P . M.
Trott, George Washington
VanHovenberg, James Jacob
Van Ma.tre, Nel11on Bliean
Viles, Bruce Philander
Waldner, Elmer Fern
Wanzer, Herbert Moses
Ward, Walter Remus
Waters, Leo Clark
Wa.y, Arthur William

ROSTER

Weatherby, Albert Skiffington
Weaver, John H. G.
Weiss, Joseph Jacob, P. M.
Wilson, Emmet Wnkema.n
Wilson, John Elmer
Wilson, Thomas W.
Wing, William
Wise, Solomon
Woorlcock, Hubert Hiram
Woodcock, Samuel Alex.
Wrii;?ley. George Edwa.rrl
Za.dda.rt, Frank Bernhard
Ziegler, Frank
-309

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Albee, Roswell Hitchcock
Broadbent, Sherman
Barnum, Frederick Benjamin
Graham, Henry Albert
.Bartlett, 8amuel Pyam
Hurlbutt, Frank L.
Bitterlin, Walter
Ingalls, George Lemuel
Bland, Cyril Ernest
Petch, Thomas Daniel

Aarbu, Ole Sevald
Anderson, Sigwald
Doe, Herman S.

DIED:
Gregor, Otto Clayton
McCormack, James Madison
McKay, William D.

141

MEMBERS:
Martin, John Frsncis, P. M.
McCloekey, William Wilson
Miner, Armistead Early
Newman, Jacob
Nixon, Lyman
Okell, Edward Joseph
Perk~ne, Elbert West
Perkins, John Dabney, P. M.
Pease, Frank Marion
Ranlett, Arthur Grover
Roes, Benjamin George
Ruman, Charles Augu1t
Sharpe, Otis Allen Ozro
Spencer, Sheldon
Stews.rt, John Carlile
Surface, Jacob, P. M.
Surface, Jamee Phillip, P. M .
Surface, John Whitten, P. M.
Swift, Charles Steadman
Tregaekis, Martin Bowden
Willia.ms, James Henry, P. M.
Woolsey, Eugene George, P. M.
Woolsey, George
Wood, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Yager, George Henry
-52
Yager, George John

Adams, Abner La.Fayette, P. M.
Bagley, Loren Amick
Bennetts, William Arthur, P. M.
Cashbaugh, Wm. Augustus
Crabtree, Isaac Jackson
Cunningham, Arthur S.
Deibolt, Joseph Celestine
Endicott, Edwin Eugene
Farnaworth, Junius, P. M.
Fairchilds, John Hurbert
Frost, Robert Howard
Greenough, Ernest Freeman
Hammer, Bernhard
Hammer, Michaelis
Harrie, Henry
Heath, John Wealey, P. M.
·Holman, Ira Newfield
Jones, Morris
Jordan, James
Johnson, Carleton H.
Johnson, Harry
Josee, John William, P. M.
Mace, Fayette
Ma.cLean, John
Maestretti, Antonio
Marchant, John, P. M.

WITHDRAWN:
Flegal, Frank Pnrte,.

IONE LODGE, No. 80.
Ione, Amador County.

YOLO LODGE, No. 81.

Stated Meeting•, Saturday of or next preceding Fttll Moon.

Yolo, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

George John Yeager, Mastrr,
John William Jones, Chaplain,
Ione, Cal.
John Henry Yager, Senior Deacon,
Arthur S. Cunningham, Sen, Ward., Fayette Mace, Junior Deacon,
Albert West Perkins, Jun. Warden, James Henry Williams, Marshal,
John March~nt, Treasurer,
Bernhard Henry Hammer, Stco.vard,
John Francis Martin, Secretary,
Robert Howard Fl'ost, Steward,
Ione, Cal.
James Philip Surface, T,•ler.

OFFICERS:
Asa Floyd Pettit, Master,
Homer Byrns Hayden, Sen. Deacon,
Yolo, Cal.
Perley Gordon Friday, JuK. Deac.,
Charles Rossetter Hoppin, S. Ward., Albert Michael Bemmerly, Marshal,
Karl Earl Giguiere, Junior Warden, Joseph T. Cooper, Steward,
John William Cannell, Treasurer,
Obediah Lester Didion, Steward,
Bernard Barach", S ecretary,
Edward Augustus Myers, Tyler.
Yolo, Cal.

:ROSTER

ROSTER

142

MEMBERS:
Bemmerly, Albert Michael, P. M.
Hayden, Homer Byrns
Bente!, Lewis David
Hoppin, Charles Rossiter
Borach, Bernard
Hoppin, George Henry, P. M.
Bower, John Outhier, P. M.
Houx, Daniel Francie, P. M.
Brown, John Scott
Kergel, August Joseph
Bullock, Fred Willson
Levy, Armand Abraham
Cannell, John William, P. M.
Lundey, John Alfred
Caeeilie, William Watson
Morrow, Arthur Gorman
ClauBBen, Ernest Augustine
Myers, Edward Augustus, P. M.
Cooper, Joseph T.
Pettit, ARa Floyd ·
Cramer, Lewie
Plantz, William Henry
Curtis, Harry E.
Price, William Enos, P. M.
Didion, Obe Lester
Riley, Ely Davie
Friday, Perley Gordon
Rohr, Alfred Andrew
Giguiere, Karl
Root, John Marion
Hadley, William Charles
Scarlett, Jamee Edward, P. M.
Harmon, Arthur Walter
Tacker, Christen Martensen
Harmon, Jamee Edward
Taylor, John Z.
Harper, Russell
Wall, William Samuel
Hatcher, Columbus Washington
Woodard, John Daniel
Hayden, Clyde Flournoy, P. M.
Zimmerman, George David
--42

Hathaway, Laurence Bradford
Holt, Michael Oscar
Jones, Henry
Korechen, Israel Martin
Langstaff, Matthew Chalder
LaRue, William Addison
Lockwood, Lot Dean
Lowe, George Alex.
Ma'nbert, Cal Rushton
McAuley, George
McAuley, Gordon Malcolm
McAulay, Henry William
McAninch, John, P. M.
McKinley, Clarence Dennis
Meikle, Peter R., P. M.

Davies, Wingfield Scott
Garrison, George Howard

Morehead, Andrew
Nesbit, Napoleon Bonapart
Power, Harold Morgan
Power, Harold Thomae,
Purinton, Frank Robert
Ray, Gilbert Florence
Reese, John William
Rennet, Charles
Roumage, Frederick Schmidt
Smith, Frank Leslie
Smith, George Henry
Smith, Leroy Ernest
Smith, William
Thomas, Jean Louis
Welker, Jacob Lock

143

---50

WITHDRAWN·
Foster, Steward Ornsby
Schwalenberg, Henry
DIED:
Anderson, August

VESPER LODGE, No. 84.
RISING STAR LODGE, No. 83.

Red Blu1f, Tehama County.

Forest Hill, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Satnrday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

William Felix O'Connor, Master,
Edward L. Cullen, Chaplain,
Red Bluff, Cal.
Thomas Bidwell Greene, Sen. Deac.,
Granville Woolman, Senior Warden, Raymond Earle Whitney, Jun. Deac.,
Arthur Hill Fickert, Jun. Warden, Perry Odell Thomas, Marshal,
William Bower Cahoone, Treasurer, Irving Bradley Paston, Steward,
\Villiam Preston Johnson, Secretary, Otto Charfos Combs, SteWMd,
Red Bluff, Cal.
Samuel Le\\ is, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Allen, Francie Erskine
Barton, Orrin Leroy
Bisbee, George Hemans
Bristow, John W.
Britt, Edward
Burry, Charles Robert
Calenberg, Francie Henry
Chappellet, Felix, Jr.
Chisholm, Kenneth, P. M.
Clemente, Styles Kennedy

Colburn, Frank Ellsworth, P. M.
Cowan, Gordon Robinson
Cowden, Ambrose Franklin
Davidson, Frederick Chester
Develey, Frederick Keyeeur
Dodds, Thomae Joseph
Dolt, Alex., P. M.
Dyson, George Nutall
Ferguson, John Alex., P. M.
Fick, Frank Anthony

OFFICERS:

Andrews, Henry Parker
Apple, Joseph Henry
Archer, Charles Monroe
Arney, John David
Bailey, James Daniel
Ballard, Curtis Durkee

MEMBERS:
Ballard, Merrill Ora
Barham, Jamee Louie, P. M.
Bates, Edgar John
Beck, J oeeph
Belcher, Willi.a m Joseph
Berkley, Robert Ed. Lee

144

Bonnard, Paul Noel
Boole, Frank Arthur
Boone, Nathaniel Isaiah
Boyd, Judson William
Bratlley1 James Henry
Bransford, Walter Lee, P. M.
Brookes, Langley
Brown, Aneil Lycurgus
Brown, Lyle Melrose
Burtt, George Lucius
Cahoone, William Brower
Campbell, Charles B.
Campbell, Remembrance Hughes
Carskadon, William Prior
Casale, Joe Isadore
Charles, Albert B.
Cheatham, Marion Judson
Clover, Philip R.
Coffman, Pelham Howard
Cohn, Alex.
Combs, Claude Artist
Combs, Otto Charles
Conner, Allen Howe.rd
Conrad, Arthur Lee
Cooper, John Lambert
Cornell, Joseph Russell
Cox, William Harvey, P. M.
Crumrine, Burritt
Crumrine, Romeyn Ezra
Cullen, Edward L.
Cunningham, Noble Millard
Darrough, Charles Henry, P. M.
De. vis, Percy Eugene
Day, Jerome Wallace, P. M.
DePierris, Wesley Smith
Doane, Frank Lewis, P. M.
Doane, George Washington
Doane, Scott
Downer, George Curtis, P. M.
Dozier, John Newton
Duncan, Maurice W., P. M.
Eichelberger, Robert Dudley
Ellison, John Francis, P. M.
Felleman, Irving John
Fickert, Arthur Hill

ROSTER

ROSTER
Fickert, William Charles
Fish, Charles Erskine
Fish, William Andrew, P. M.
Foster, John Henry
Fouke, Frank Joseph
Frese, Charles Remke.
Gans, Erle Lawrence, P. M.
Gans, Herbert South
Gernon, Nicholas Andrew
Godbolt, Roy Smith, P. M.
Gosney, Luther Orastaus
Greene, Thomas Bidwell ·
Gronenmeyer, Ferdinand Henry
Hamilton, James Lester, r. M.
Heaton, Nathaniel T.
Hendricks, Frank, P. M.
Hensel, Charles Frank
Hesse, Charles
Hillhouse, .Tohn Clayton
1'!oft'man, Charles
Hultquist, Peter Ernest
Jelly, Frank Lee
Johnson, Carl Edwin
Johnson, William Preston. P . M.
Jones, George Thomas
Kibby, Ira Wesley
Knauss, Edward. P. M.
Kuhn, Herman Gustave
Le.gee, William
Lewis, Samuel
Linebaugh, David Cameron
Ljungstrom, Bernard Otto
Lucas, James Paris
Manning, Thomas Bernard
Marquis, James Harvey
Martin, Henry Arthur
McAmis, George Ross
McCoy, Alex. McKean
McCoy, Leo Adrian
McCoy, Leo Lewis
McCullagh, David Herbert
McLaren, James
Miller, William Barton
Moors, Oliver Edgerton
Murphy, Sylvanus Everett

Nice, Herbert Wesley
Nollman, George, P. M.
North, Edwin Byron
Norvell, Robert Marcus
Nutting, Georgl! R-enry
0 'Connor, William Felix
Olson, Adolph
Owen, Joseph Allen
Paxton, Irving Bradley
Ransom, Frank: Henry
Rogers, Alfred Newton
Ro88land, Ole Osear
Schoenfeld, Solomon David
Scofield, Georgti Lewis
Shade, Reuben Alor
Sharpe, J e.mes Henry
Shortridge, James Edward
Smith, Charles Wilson
Stanley, Norman Stephen
Stice, Ge.rlen Gates
Stice, Henry Peter, P. M.
Stief, Jacob
Stivers, George Lincoln
Stivers, Henry Fox:, P. M.
Strain, William
Stoddard, William Seward
Sutherland, Henry Isaac
Swain, Cassius Perkins

Curtes, Charles C.

Swain, Henry Clinton, P. M.
Taylor, Ulyeses Grant
Thomas, Perry Odell, P. M.
•rhomson, Philip Henry
Trede, John ·
Uno.sh, Edward Walter
Vestal, Harold
Vestal, Francis Asberry
Vestal, George W ems
Vestal, Rolla
Walbridge, Edgerton Byron
Weeks, Charles Blanchard
West, John M.
White, George Allen
Whitney, Raymond Earle
Wiedemann, Louis Carl F.
Wiendieck, Herman llenry ·
Wietfoldt, Henry Charles
Wilcox, Grant But.l er
Wilkins, George Arthur
Wilkins, Norman Fraser
Willard, Harry Kittridge
Wilson, Arthur David
Winter, Louis
Woolf, Ambrose Warren
Woolman, Granville
Worley, William Henry
Zimmerman, H arris Haskell

WITHDRAWN:
Stark, Thomas Alexander

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Thompson, William Spinney
DIED:
Brooks, Hyatt C.

10

Butler, Benjamin Aaron
Chase, Gay Horatio

145

-158
.,

ROSTER

ROSTER

H8,
1:/:

NAVAL LODGE, No. 87.
V&llejo, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Walte_r. Causbrook, Master, George W. Edgecowbe, Chaplain,
930 Eldorado St., Vallejo.
'l'homas Brown, Senior Deacon,·
James Ramsey, Senior W1;1rden,
Fred Graff, Junior Deacon,
Harry Holinger Holmes, Jun. Ward., Frank Lawson Wiles, Marshal,
Albert Adams Knott, Treasurer,
Bert Cory Whiteley, Steward,
William Brownlie, Secr~tary,
Charles Cameron Bowman, Steward,
523 York St., Vallejo.
Alvin Newton Robinson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bowman, Charles Cameron
Adams, Raleigh John
Bond, Frederick Taylor
Aden, Henry ·Joseph
Boydler, Einar Thomassen
Aden, Martin Remmer
Braghetta, Albert
Aden, Remmer Johan Remmers
Braunagel, Henry
Aden, William Melchert
Broadwell, Barley Gordon
Aitken, James Pemberton
Brown, Nelson Wallis
Allen, Ernest Paul
Brown, Thomas
Anderson, Amandus
Brown, Walter Scott
Anderson, Theodore, Jr.
Brownlie, James
Armstrong, John James, P. M.
Brownlie, James William
Ashwell, Charles
Brownlie, William, P. M.
Ayling, Walter
Bushnell, Charles Richard
Bangle, George Edgar
Carlton:, Ellsworth Lewis
Basney, Oscar
Canham, John Burnett
Baumgartner, John Edward
Carman,
Ambrose Sherman
Begbie, Richard
Carter1 George Valentine, P. M.
Bell, John
Cassady, Henry Lawrence
Belling, Henry
Cassady, Ralph Leslie
Belling, Walter
Cn.usbrook, Charles Walter
Bennett, Thomas Henry
Chandler, Henry Walker
Bergwall, Gustaf Adolph, P. M.
Chappell, James Fenton
Berry, Arthur Edmond
Chase, John Hawley
Beveridge, David 'Forney
Christiansen, Charles Jacob
Bissland, Duncan Colville
Church, Robert B.
Rib:er, Raymond Martin
Cilley, Miner Henry
Bless, Elmer Delbert
Clary,
Edward Alvin
Bluett, Edward
Cleghorn, George Arthur
Boll, Charles John
Cleghorn, Robert Bryclen
Boner, Thomas .Jeremiah

Clifford, Samuel Tb,qm~I\ .
Cochran, l\lbert Fremont
Cogswell, Frede~ick Ludovica
Conroy, David
Copper, Samuel Arthur
Cottrell, Roy Melvin
Crist, Manuel Paul
Cuthbertson, Walter Jones
Dale, Joshua Benton
Daley, Arthur
Dallyn, Charles Edward
Dannenbaum, Eugene Q.
Dannenbaum, Isaac
Dannenbaum, Sam
Dannenbaum, Solomon
Davis, Charles Henry
Davis, David Llewellyn
Deane, Clarence Henry
Debolt, Charles
Deininger, Jacob Frederick
Depew, William H.
Dic~ey, Glen Deane, P. M.
Dobie, Ernest William
Doughty, .Jackson Hannibal
Douglas, Laurel Albert
Dreher, Harry William
Droast, J o~n Martin
Dumbrell, James William
Edgecumbe, Egbert Edwin
Edgecumbe, George Wentworth
Ehlers, Peter Ferdinand
Emerson, James William
Emms, Charles
Esborn, Homer
Faber, Charles Frederick
Fabiansen, Alex.
Falconer, Guy Bryan
Farmer, Robert Wilson
Fischer, August Ernest
Fitzpatrick, Joseph
Foley, Patrick Henry
Freudenberg, Herman Lee
Frey, .Henry George
Fugler, Ernest Charles
Funk, William Walton

Gedge, William Kelly
Gilbert, William Thomas
Graft', Frederick
Greathead, Robert Granville
Greenwood, Earl Norman
Greenwood, Harlow Verne
Greenwood, James Alfred
Greig, Alex., P. M.
Grindler, Richard Edward
Grove, Jeane Angelo .
Guffy, Newton Booth
Gustavson, Ernest Alexis
Hale, Henry Hugh
Hacker, Homer Haynes
Hall, George Henry
Hall, Frederick Winslow, P. :M.
Halliday, Henry Lincoln
Hamlen, John Elbert
Hammar, Alrik
Hancock, John Henry
Hansen, Charles Fred
Hanson, Arthur Ferdinand
Hanson, David Mark '
Harding, John Henry
Harrier, Daniel Webster
Harris, Henry Louis
Hartman, Alvin Andreas
Hathaway, Charles Odbert
Hatton, William John
Haupt, Oscar
Hawkins, Ernest Alfred
Healey, John
Healey, William
Heath, Charles Richard
Heckman, Edwin
Heegler, Fred Henry
Herbert, George Arthur
Hess, Alexandel' Wiseley
Hind, William McKenzie, P. :M.
Hogg, William Calvin
Hodgen, Louis· Kimberlin
Holly, Jackson Robert
Holmes, Harry Bolinger
Hood, Robert, P. M.
Hopp, Emil Gustav

1~7

"

148

ROSTER

ROSTER

Huckins, Albertine, P. M.
Hunt, George Jackson
Hurt, James Arthur
Hueston, Elwood Branham
Illhardt, August
Irven, Walter Lynch
Jacobs, Clarence Preston
Jamison, Frank Reed
Johnsen, Albert Anderson
Johnson, Lester Archibald
Johnson, Olav
Johnson, Otto
Johnson, Otto Juline
Johnston, Charles Martin
Jolley, Samuel Patterson
Jones, Tvor Edward
Jones, Morgan
Jones, William Alex., P. M.
Jones, Janard E.
Jones, William Thomas
Joyce, Charles Sheridan
Kaarsberg, Lawrence C. H., P. M.
Kahler, William Louis
Keller, Philip Lawrence
Kempe, Paul Frederick
Kenneson, Moody Dodge
Kenyon, William Hazard
KeBBler, Eugene Francis
Killam, Frank Nelson
King, William Roscoe
Kinsey, Frank Joseph, P. M.
Kirkpatrick, John Marcus
Klotz, Bernard Johann
Klotz, Gusta V"l Oscar
Knott, Albert Adams
Knott, Albert Thomas
Kovetke, George William
Kozlow, Stephen
Koppen, George John
Kropp, John Richard
Kuhn, Arthur Henry
Kull, Howard Milton
Leach, Frank Alsaman
LA1witt, Lorenzo Bailey
Le,1nard, George Darwin

Levee, Sarjah lL
Lindauer, Arthur, P. 1llL
Lindstrom, William
Litle, Harvey Bruce
Lord, Nelville Merchant
Low, William John
Lucas, Arthur Wilson
Luchsinger, Joh.u Jac<>b, P. JIS._
Lutgens, Adolph Charles Frederick
MacDonell, Archie Melville
Magoon, Walter Calvin
Major, John James
Malcolm, John George
Mann, Orville lfrant
Marshall, David Filson
Marshall, Elmer Ellsworth
Martjn, James Lewis
Martin, John Henry
Mathesen, Manuel
Matthies, Hugo Werner
Mattson, Charles Oscar
McCarthy, Timothy Worthington
McCloskey, Alexander Gilliam
McCord, Charles Graham
McCray, Marvin
McDaid, Alex., P. M.
McKenney, Charles Daniel
McKnight, Samuel James
McLaughlin, Boy Parmelee
McPher~on, James Girvin
McPike, Andrew Jackson, P M.
McTyer, William Archer
McVittie, Willi.am
Merriman, Edward
Merritt, Josiah
Millon, John Pt>ter
Milman, Arthur
Minard, Ray Neil
Mini, Damiani
Mini, John Baptist
Mitchell, Henry John
Mitchell, William E~rl
Mitchell, William Henry, P. M.
Morton, George C.
~Iuirhead, Thomas

•

Muirhead, Thomas, Jr.
Mullan, Daniel
Muller, Herman Henry
Munro, Donald, P. M.
Nelson, Charles Wesley
Nelson, Erie
Nelson, Martin
Newman, Oliver Charles
Neill, John W.
Nichols, Clarenr.e Asa
Nicol, James Rolph
Nielson, Carl Henry
Nightingale, William Arthur
Norbey, Peter Oliver
Oakley, Gilbert Hewlett
0 'Brien, Maurice John
O'Hara, George Kane
Olander, Herman Knut
Olfrer, Thomas
Oraker, Ole Peterson
Ovlen, Uno Theodore
Paige, William Francis
Palmer, Mortan Moderet
Paterson, James
Patterson, George Anderson
Patterson, James Hunter
Peck, Fred Dongles
Penn, Warren
Pennycook, William Dick
Peoples, Bert Raymond
Persson, Ernest John
Peters, Charles Richard
Peterson, James Carl
Piercy, James
Plummer, Henry Giron
Plymire, James Adams
Pohlmann, William Henry
Pope, Frederick Joseph
Powell, James Henry
Pracht, Charles August
Pratt, Daniel Araetus
Radelllfe, Peter Edward
Ramsey, James
Rehn, Emil Emanuel
Richardson, Henry Douglass

Richmond, William Elliott
Robinson, Alvin Newton
Roperto, Gaietano
Rose, August Fred. Christopher
Rosebedt, John Emil
Rossow, Ernest Frederick
Rule, George Alex.
Rule, Richard Young
· Rn~sell, Alex.
Rutherford, David Ritchie
Rutherford, John Alex.
Rutledge, Frank Bellamy
Samuels, Andrew
Saunders, Walter Gillettf'
Savage, Thomu
Saxton, William Eugene
Schmidt, John
Schwass, John Franklyn
Shade, Simon Luther
Shepherd, Charles Francis
Sherman, Frederick Carl
Sherwood, John
Small, .Frederick Augustu1
Smith, John
Snyder, Joseph Barnaby
Sorensen, Samuel Peter
Spencer, Alfred Oscar
Springborg, Peter Conrad
BteYens, Calvin Elkins
Stewart, Frank George
Stewart, Herbert Callaway
St. John, Robert L.
Stout, Hanson Leonard
Stromberg, Wilhelm Nilcolom
Sullivan, Thomas Sylvester
Swanson, William Edward
Symington, John Grant, P. M.
Taylor, William Henry
Thirion, Julius Joseph
Thompson, Walter Simeon
Thornton, George
Thornton, Jack Robert
Throp, George Spafford
Toles, Walter We!Hngton
Tomke, Edward

149

ROSTER

160
Toth, John
Tree, Albert Duhring
Tregidgo, Don Alfonso
Tripp, Don Everett
Tuttle, Paul Vernon
Vassie, David Barclay
Vice, Thomas, Jr.
Vine, Edward Ernest
Walker, James Marion Church
Walker, Robert Woodhull
Wall, Anselm Alexander
Wall, Charles John
Warford, Charle~ Henry
Warford, George Hichborn
Warford, Lewis Sylvester
Warren, Charles, P. M.
Warren. Edward Harkf!r
Wellbrock, Henry James
Welter, Dominique
Weniger, George

ROSTER

Westrem, John
Weir, John Campbell
Wheeler, Charles Garry
White, Burchard Cole
Whit.e, Henry Eclward
Whiteley, Bert Cory
Widenmann, Charles
Widenmann, Henry Jacob
Widenmann, William Adolph
Wiles, Frank Lawson
Wilkinson, Edwin
Williamson, William
Willis, Jack Ma<'y W.
Wilson, George Wilkins
Wilson, Joseph Everett, P. M.
Wiseman, Herbert John
Wittum, George Francis
Wood, John Fr!lncis
Wood, Robert

SUSPENDED · FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Jacobs, Benjamin Richard
Miller, Theodore Leon
Stolzenberg, Charles Frederick

Clark, William Henry
Schild, George Ferdinand

DIED:
Rounds, George
Tolley, George Francis

MEMBERS:
Magonigal, William Boyd
Austin, John Hiram
Manasco, Carlton Willburn,. P. M.
Bach, John Ed., P. M.
. Matson, Forest Bruner
·'•· · ~ · = .:.
Bartle, H. O. A.
McDaniel, George Glenn .. ' · • .. '
Beatty, John, Jr., P. M.
McLain, Oliver Henry
"''" ·
Beatty, Richard Ray
N ovay, Charles Newton • · .:.: ·' : - ·
Beatty, Robert, P. M.
Palmstrom, William Barne" p; -M.
Cocking, William Joseph
Peckham, Thomas William '
Collins, Lawrence Leroy
Perkins, Joseph Allen · :. . •
Davey, Sampson
Prestegard, Ole M.
.fo1 r
Dickerman, Samuel Nelson
Rolles, Owen
Dobbins, Julian Wilcoxon
Robson, William Garfield, : :P. ;l(,'. ..:
Duggins, Alexander
Schwartz, Earnest Elmer ·~. .·
Durfee, Joseph, P. M.
Schwartz, Theodore
· · .. ·
Dutra, Frank Meranda
Sears, Calvin Kirk
Earp, William Hilton
Sperbeck, John Bertie
Flint, John North
Stewart, Wallis Jones
Hansen, Chris
.... ...
..
Hapgood, Eugene DeLorimer, P. M. Taylor, Joseph W.
Thomas, Law:i'en·ce Elery
Hopfield; Lewis Desolis
Toland, William Joseph; p; M• ·'·'· ::
Horton, Dwight
Vineyard, George Eugene . ; ' : · · :
Johnson, William Benjamin
Wheaton, Allan -Givens, ·p,.. M. • ·
Jones, David Nevins
Widner, Joseph
, .. :....,;.
Jorgensen, George Christian
.... .
Words, William Warren
Kirkpatrick, Herbert Alexander
-Williams, Henry Gray
· · ·· ·
Kumle, Hubert Garfield
Woehler, Otto Arwed
· ·'
..•: ·
Lehman, William Henry
Lewis, Harry Byron
-53

...

-367

WITHDRAWN:
Hood, John
Noyes, Elmer Ellsworth

Guill, Willis Adie
Green, Robbie Gladyis

151.

~

,

-· .. ::.
NORTH STAR · LODGE, No. 91.
Fort Jones, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

ROSE'S BAR LODGE, No. 89·

OFFICERS:

Smartsville, Yuba County.

Felix Jacob Kunz, Senior Deacon,
Horace Vincent Ley, Master,
Leonidas Bailey. Junior Deacon,
Fort Jones, Cal.
Michael Henry Holmer, Sen. Ward., Craig Thomas Harbaugh, Marshal,
James Alexander Walker, J. Ward., Isaac Roberts, Steward,
John Emerson Crawford, Steward,
Felix Kunz, Treasurer,
Samuel Jackson Luttrell, Tyler.
Martin Custer Beem, Secretary,
Fort Jones, Cal.

j

Stated Meetings, Saturday of ·or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFJCERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

ROSTER

152

MEMBERS:
Kunz, Felix Jacob
Addison, George William
Ley, Horace Vincent, P. M.
Arn.old, Jesse
Loots, Joseph Dephinet
Bailey, Elton Thompson, P. M.
Luttrell, Sall).uei Jackson
Bailey, Leonidas
Malais, Joseph
Beem, Andrew Addison
Maplesden, Richard Daniel
Beem, Martin Custer, P. M.
Martin, Joseph Washington
Billa, Albert Aar<'n
McCaw, Alex.
Cowan, Willi.am Virgil
McCarthy, Francis Patrick
Crawford, John Emers0n
Milliken, Albert A.lexancler
Dale, Frank Emit .
Milne, George Anthony
Dangel, Joseph
Morgan, Wesley E\lgene
Eastlick. :Edeiiek Pre11ton
Parrott, Charles Bootl!
Gault, Albert Morto11
Roberts, Isaac
Glendenning, Walter Elliott
Roe, Allan George
Hamilto:n, John
Ryan, Charles Milton
Hai:ba.ugh,. Craig Thomas, P. M.
Sandiego, Shadra
.Harris, Charles Elias
Hayes, William Howard
Sb.eartr, Hir•m Dual
Henderson, Fred Sylvester, P. M.
Simon, Arthur, Ji'. M.
Simon, Charles Herm•n, :P. M.
Holmea, · ¥ichael Henry
Hottendorf, John Henry
Thelen, Bruno
Walker, James Alexander
JacobJS, Elilha, P. 11(.
Johnston, John Benjamin
Walker, :RobePt Miwktill, P. 11(.
Kells, Chas. Edward
Younir, John Weeley
Kleaver, Fredei:irk Adolpbus
Zoellin, Ernest August, P. l\II.
Kunz,. Felix
SUSPE~DED

FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Raker, Rolin George
~II,

Garretson, ,Job
Adam B.

ROSTER

153

ACACIA LODGE, No. 92.
Coloma, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFlCERS:

Alexander B. Leonardi, Master,
William Orelli, Senior Deacon,
Lotus, Cal.
Fred L. Thomas, Junior Deaeon,
Charles F. Leonardi, Senior Warden, Albert Shafsky, Marshal,
John McKay, Junior WarcUn,
Albert Colwell, Steward,
Charles A. Rasmusson, Treasurer, Leonard TholllaS, Steward,
William N. Stearns, Secretary,
Giosue Bassi, Tyler.
Coloma, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Bassi, Giosue
Leonardi, Alexander Basil, P. M.
Bell, Francis Marion
Leonardi, Charles Felix
Blake, Christian George
Mahler, Arthur John
Castle, Walter Augustus
McKay, John, P. M.
Colwell, Albert Morris
0 'Connell, Charles Augastus
Colwell, Ralph Lewis, P. M.
Orelli, William
Goldsmith, Walter Sidney
RBAmusson, Charles Augustus
Harris, Jacob Alex.
Shafsky, Albert
Johnson, Albert
Steams, William Nathan
Largerson, Fredeiiek
Thomas, Fred Leon
Leach, George Clark
Thomas, Leonard, P. M.
-22

Teuscher, Daniel
Norris, Albert William

DIED:
Norris, Joseph S.
Mahler, Henry
Merrill, Charles E.

ST. HELENA LODGE, No. 93
St. Helena, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Steuart Noble, Master,
Anker Miller, Senior Deac11n,
Hommer De Wolfe Hewins, Sen: W., H. George Rammers, Junior Deac<>n,
Frederick A. Wright, Juu. Warden, William Wirt Bradbury, MarshtJI,
John Henry Steves, Treasurer,
Joseph Galewsky, Stetliard,
John Hiram Allison, Secretary,
William F . Bornhorst, Steward,
James Mitchell, Chaplain,
Franz Ludwig Beck, Tyler.

154

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Hewins, Homer De Wolf
Adamson, Christian Pugh
Hussman, George C.
Allison, James Andrew
Inman, Marcus Fayette, P. M.
Allison, John Hiram, P. M.
James, Arthur Vernon
Anderson, Henry Peter
Jelinsky, Henry Charles
Barnes, Roland Curtis
Johnson, Charles Henry
Beck, Franz Ludwig
Johnston, Leslie Ewing
Beck, Lawrence Lausen
Laersson, Berger
Bell, Alphonso Nelson
Lyman, Wm. Whittingham, P. M.
Bell, Theodore Arlington
Mackinder, Frank Bennett
Bell, William Bradford
McAllister, William Francis
Bingham, William Alex.
McMahan, ,"!"oel
,Boalt, Thomas Warren, P. M.
Meacham, Henry Martin
Booth, Frank Simmons
Merk, Jacob Frederick
Booth, Jedidiah
Metzler, John Adams, P. M.
Bonhote, Edward Louis
Metzner, Walter
Bornhorst, William Frederick
Miller, Anker, P. M.
Bradbury, William Wirt
1.litP.hell, Frank Walton, P. M.
Bruck, Bismarck, P. M.
Mitchell, James
Burge, Adison E.
Moburg, Charles J.
Caughey, James
Newcomer, Stewart
Clark, James Harrison
Noble, John Stewart, P. M.
Clark, Louis Grant, P. M.
Noland, James A.
Clark, Samuel Gilman
Outwater, Nelson T.
Chinn, Harry Jessup
Overacker, Howard, Jr.
Conradi, Carl Herbert
Pellet, Frank
Craig, James
Phillips, Joseph Wilson
Davis, Cornelius Elting
Rammers, Henry George
Dawson, William James Greenlee
Rampendahl, August Charles
Disher, George William
Rrynol<ls, George Daniel
Eisau, Albert Franklin
Riee, Charles Frederick
Eisau, Frank Brayton
Richie, Geo. Tolman
England, John Fred
Richie, David R., P. M.
Enos, Joseph Arthur
Rockstroh, Frederick Franz
Fried, David
Saunder, Lonie
Foss, Raymond
Shakespear, David
Galensky, Joseph
Skoog, August
Grant, Philo Seelye
Stearn, Leslie Aylmar, P. M.
Gra:uss, Felix Lawren
StevE!s, John Henry, P. M.
Greenfield, Charles Hayilen
Steves, Warren Carlton
Hansen, Hans
Squires, ·Frederick Russell
Hansen, William
Swartfiguer, Thomas Q.
Hardin, James Robert Lee
Spires, William
Harris, Henry Harrison

Treydte, Karl Otto Paul
Turner, William Abbott
Vann, Charles Ross
Varner, Frederick Garfield
Wagner, John A.

155

.Wallace, Charles Holmes
Ward, Bruce Stanley, P. M.
Webb, Ole
Weston, Frank

-95
WITHDRAWN:

Bockstatt, August
Husman, Frederick Ludwig

Haskell, Greenlief Adelbert
*Yarrington, James Theus

•Degrees conferrA1 during the year.

HENRY CLAY LODGE, No. 95.
Sutter Creek, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Gustave Schrader, Master,
Nelson William Hyler, Sen. Deacon,
Sutter Creek, Cal.
William 'l'homas Case, Jun. Deacon,
John Louis Redpath, Senior Warden, John Anthony Phipps, Jr., Marshal,
Lawrence :Poundstone, Jun. Warden, John Angelo Delucchi, Steward,
Charles Edwin Richards, Treasurer, Daniel Victor Ramazzotti, Steward,
John Lithgow, Secretary,
Thomas William Trudgen, Tyler.
Sutter Creek, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Allen, ~eorge Edward
J:l,e aley, William Edward
Austin, Bert Currington
Hornberger, Henry Nicholas
Bell, William
Hornberger, Nicholas
Beskeen, J oh:il. Edward
Huntington, Pliny Corbin
Bowman, Frank Austin
.Tonei, ·Edward
Brinn, Morris, P. M.
Jones, Edward Cornelius
Chandler, Joseph Fountain, P. M. J'ones, Thomas Washington
Christiansen, Robert J .
Katz, Louis, P. M.
Conroy, Chester Ferrell
Lewis, Arthur Parker
Colbert, CharleR Leonard
Lewis, Lemuel Thomas
Delucchi, John Angelo
Lithgow, John, P. M.
Downs, Walter Ephraim, P. M.
Lithgow, Theodore
Fleming, Joseph
'Montgomery, Frederick Alex.
Frozer, Martin Luther
Niiron, Malachi Doyle, P. M.
Greenhalgh. William B enry
Norton; Cliarles Howard, P. M.
Groves, Isaac Newton
Norton, Virgil Winfield, P. M.
Gunsolus, William Henry, P. M.
Norton, William Henry
Hattersly, John
Noce, Andrew Lewis

156

ROSTER

Phipps, John Anthony
Phipps, John Anthony, Jr., P. M.
Poundstone, Lawrence
Post, Elbridge James, P. M.
Poundstone, Lawrence Rider
Raby, Herbert Matthew
Redpath, John Lewis
Richards, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Sander<J, William Atwood
Schrader, Gustave
Show, Herbert Je88e
Smith, Webster, P. M.

Styles, George Washington
Tregloan, John Roger
Trudgen, Thomas William
Vicini, Charles Peter
Voorheis, Edward Converse, P. M.
Walsh, Albert Marion
Walter, Henry Franklin
Weil, Aaron
Werner, Frederick, P. M.
White, Lawrence Antone
Williams, Benj. Cleveland
Williamson, George Frederick -60

HOWARD LODGE, No. g6.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, second :Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ernest Vance Harmon, Master,
Mabro Helm Madden, Sen. Deaco11,
Yreka, Cal.
Oliver H . Poor, J1mior Deaco11,
William Brown Rider, Sen. Wardeb, David Ream, Marshal,
Howard O 'Connor, Junior Warden, Richard Davis Henshaw, Steward,
William Lorenzo Hobbs, Treasurer, Jordon Jolly, Steward,
Elisha De Witt, Secretary,
James Marcellus Powers, T)•ler.
Yreka, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Coyle, James Lawrence
Ager, Judson Arthur
Davidson, Jamee McDermit
Autenrieth, Edward Herman
Autenrieth, Frederick Alex., P. M. Davis, Fred J.
DeWitt, Elisha
Barton, John Henry
DeWitt, Henry C9111l'(>y, P. M.
Beard, James Gehrig
DeWitt, Robert Hewitt, P. M.
Betts, John George
Dudley, Evan Cltarlock
Bird, John William, P. M.
Earhart, Davis Carlysle
Brooks, George William, P. M.
Eddy, Irving Levi
Burrill, Alfred Stevens
Burton, Ray Oscar
Eddy, Newton Hvny
Buscomb, William Thomas
Fabricius, Andrew Jaekeon
Coggins, Clilford
Fielder, John Larimer
Frock, Lawrence Roy
Collar, Adoniram Judeon, P. M.
Collar, Floyd Judaon
Foster, Joseph Wallace
Coburn, Lewis Farren, P. M.
Gillis, Claude Erle
Cornelius, Rowland Pryor
Gillis, Kenneth Claire

nosn:1i

..

Gisbrecht, Adolph
Gordan, Morris Lane
Gregory, Calvin Levi, P. M.
Guild, Len W.
Hadley, Charles Edwin
Harmon, Ernest Vance, P. M.
Harmon, John Enoch, P. M .
Hart, Edwin Charles
Hassler, William Richard
Henshaw, Richard Davis
Hobbs, William Lorenzo
Hovey, Frank
Hudson, Hamilton Harris
Jensen, Joseph Edward
Jolly, Jerden
Jones, Arthur
Jonljs, Lewelyn
Jones, Medcalf Thomas
Kuck, Jerome Deidrick
Leland, William Lester
Lennox, William
Linville, Robert
Madden, Mabra Helm
Martin, Frederick
Martin, Henry Alvin
Martin, Milton Terney

157

Miano, John Norton
Morrison, Charles Hector, P. M.
0 'Connor, Arthur
0 'Connor, Howard
Orr, Oliver
Owens, Richard
Papst, John Leiand
Pollard, Frank Church, P. M.
Poor, Oliver Hoyt
Ream, David, P. M.
Richardson, James Frederick
Rider, William Brown
Roberts, Willis Henry
Sarter, Harvey Johnson, P. M.
Sarter, Lee Andrew
Sheldon, Luther Augustus
Smith, Abner Clarence
Smith, Clarence Stewart. P. M.
Storey, James Hamlin
Tapscott, James Robert, P. M.
Truax, Andrew Yates
Tubbs, Ellsworth, P. M.
Turner, Walter
Turner, William Wallace
Wadsworth, Henry
Walbank, Edward Montague, P. M.
-84
DIED:

Smith, Benjamin Franklin

Tamborine, Andrew

JEFFERSON LODGE, No. g7,
La Porte, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Richard Henry Kingdon, Master,
Gilbert May, S cniar Deacon,
La Porte, Cal.
John Craig, Junior Deacon,
Cleveland H. O'Rourke, Sen. Ward., Aaron Harris, Marshal,
Henry Hartley, Junior Warden,
George Archibald Patterson, Slew.,
Arthur Truman Gould, Treasurer,
Samuel Francis Grandbois, Steward,
Charles William Hendel, Secretary, Onezime Liberty, Tyler.
La Porte, Cal.

ROSTER

158

159

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Kingdon, Richard Henry, P. M.
Bieler, Nicholas
Liberty,
'onezime
Brassel, Jacob
May, Gilbert, P. M .
Brunet, Leon
M<>.Farland, Abel, P. M.
Brewster, Herbert
McKenzie, Daniel
Caya, Olivei; Francis
McNair, George Morrison
Corbett, David W., P. M.
Mickle, William
Craig, John
Mott, Joseph
Erwin, Joseph
Mussey, John Milton, P. M.
Erwin, William Luther
O 'Rourke, Cleveland Hendrick
Fox, James
Patterson, George Archibald
Francis, Richard Alley
Proseus, John Milton
Foster, Robert
Quigley, Willie Clarence, P. M.
Forbes, Hector
Reed, Henry Gibson
Gould, Arthur Truman, P. M.
Richier, Dominique
Grandbois, Samuel Francis
Sample, James
Grant, William Oscar
Sherman, William
Greely, Archie Josiah
Schofield, William Alfred
Harris, Aaron
Squier, Eugene, P. M.
Hartley, Henry Thomas
Thomas, David Philip
Hendel, Charles William
Waterworth, James, P. M.
Humphreys, Thomas, P. M.
Wendler, Frederick Herman
Johnson. Andrew
Wiegand, John, P. M.
Jones, James
-48
Wingate, Gharles Birkmeyer
Kingdon, Henry

Adams, William, P. M.
Avis, William Burkett
Bauer, Charles Edward
Dauer, Joseph Julian
Black, Murice Newman
Bradley, Oliver Uriel
Branson, Joseph
Brown, Sawuel Lester
Bunker, Charles Edward
Collins, John William
Cornett, John Robert
Gornert, John
Guest; Samuel John
Henricks, Albert, P. M.
Henricks, Samuel
King, William Booth

MEMBERS:
Miller, Clarence Lamont
Mora, John Frank :
McGregor, William Newton
Ong, Jackson Washington
Paterson, David Orr
Prouse, Samuel James
Rowland, Archibald Gann
Spahr, Huber Small, P. M.
Solari, Frank Nicholas, P. M.
Souza, John Maria
Sullivan, Daniel Guy
Thorn, Joseph Franklin
Thorn, George McKendra
Trabucco, John Babtista
Washington. Patrick
Webb'er, G_eorge Edward

-32

WITHDRAWN:
Branson, William Procter

Grade, William Adolph

DIED:
Reeb, George
Spagnoli, Joseph

YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 99.

WITHDRAWN:
Schofield, Miles Edmond

Merced, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Archibald Lewis Silman, Master, Scott Hughe&, Senior Deacon,
Merced, Cal. ·
Isaac M. kochman, Junior Deacon,
Charles Benton Harrell, Sen. Ward., William Edward Landram, Marshal,
Julius Hymen Ellis, Junior Warden; John Wm. Lewi~ Landram, Steward,
Carter Landram, Treasurer,
Jesse Andrew Hoy, Steward,
Charles Herbert Wright, Secretary, William McKinney Guild, Tyler.
Merced, Cal.

HORNITOS LODGE, No. 98.
Hornitos, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Frank Nicolas Solari, Master,
Huber Small Spahr, Senior Deacon,
Hornitos, Cal.
David Orr Paterson, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Julian Bauer, Senior Ward., William Newton McGregor, Ma.rshal,
John William Collins, Junior Wa1'd., Henry Newman Black, Steward,
John Robert Co.rnett, Treasurer,
Archibald G. Rowland, Steward,
William Adams, Secretary,
Charles Edward Bauer, Tyler.
Hornitos, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Bailard, John Rensaleer
Baker, John William
Barfield, George Hardwick
Baker, Oscar AlexanJer, P M.
Bird, Isaac
Baxter, James Robert

•

160

ROSTER
ROSTER

Bloss, George S~one
Jenkins, Roy Horace
Bradley, Fred
Jones, George :Jhilton
Brantley, Samuel King
Jones, Joseph Simpson
Burchell, Milton Cook
Kinney, George Oscar, P. M.
Carpenter, Ransome Ambers
Kochman, Isaac :M.
Corwin, Andrew Chaudler
Landers, James Thomas
Crane, Bert
Landram, Carter, P. M.
Landram, John Wm. Louis
Croop, William Bigler
Cunningham, Emmett Turner, P. M. Landram, William Ed\Vard, P. M.
Cunningham, James Charles
Leonard, James, P. :M.
Lilley, Walter Eastman
Czerny, Clyde Benton
Maddux, George,
Czerny, John, P. M.
Massengale, Rir,hard Eugene
Deaner, John Allen
Means, William Leland, :t>. M.
Ellis, Julius Hymen
Farr, George Daniel
Meany, Anthony Warfield
Meehan, Richard Andrew
Fruit, Jefferson
Moree, Joseph Leach
Gerard, Virgil Hamilton, P. M.
Moutrey, Asa Edward
Gervasio, Jacintho Rodrigues
McPherson, Hiram Archibald
Givens, Eleazer Virgil
;Nelson, Hugo F. L.
Givens, Thomas Thift
Nickerson, Grant Haines
Goldman, Morris
O'Brien, Edward Stephen, P. :M.
Gracey, Robert, P. M.
Oliver, Oscar Marion, P. :M.
Graham, John Richard
Gray, John Alexander
Painter, Eugene Deshong
Parkinson, Robert John
Gregory, William Valentine
Peck, Norman Sumner
Guild, William McKinsey
Pedreira, Antonio Freitas, P. M.
Gurr, Alfred Richard
Robinson, John Abel
Hall, Thomas Albert
Roes, Henry Christopher
Hardwick, William Jefferson
Sanderson, Fred Grant
Harrell, Charles Benton
Scofield, A. Hamon
Harris, Charles
Shaffer, Charles R.
Harris, Morris Louie
Harris, Ruben
Shaffer, Harold Stanley
Silman, Archibald Lewis
Heitman, Frederick William
Simon, Charles, P. M.
Heitman, Hubert, P. M.
Simon, James
Higgins, Frank Lincoln
Smith, Arthur Montell
Howard, Amos Edwin
Terrill, Overton Harrison
Howell, Mark
Turner, Ora Austin
Hughes, James Boaz
Hughes, Scott
Vincent, Marion M.
Weaver, Christian Stoner
Huls, Herbert Kimball
Widenmann, Wm. K.
Hunt, William Hortor
Wilbur, Albert Harper
James, Franeis Eugene

Wilson, Nathaniel Hoag
Winton, Gordon Harvey
Wright, Charles Herbert, P. M.

161

Yoakum, George Washington
Young, Bertram King
Zirker, Adolph Jacob

-98

WITHDRAWN:
Cook, William Roy

Goldberg, William Louis
DIED:

Blumenthal, Bernard

Hayward, Alvin Eugene
Ordway, Francis Moody

CLAY LODGE, No.

IOI.

Dutch Flat, Placer Couney.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George R. Faller, Master,
Robert E. Linder, Senior Deacor.
Dutch Flat, Cal.
Frank Collins, Junior Deacon,
Solon M. Curtin, Senior Warden,
William E. Bellows, Marshal,
Charles Kempsted, Junior Warden, Alex. E. Erskine, Steward,
John Beamer, Treasurer,
John Shaffer, Steward,
James W. Jameson, Secretary,
John Henry La Kamp, Tyler.
Dutch Flat, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Barber, Chas. Edward
Barker, Charles Oscar
Beame•, John
.Honhaf, John Peter
Brice, Joseph Albert
Buckman, Benjamin Sims
Chase, Alonzo Bert
Clendening, John
Collins, Charles Franklin
Cook, William
Curtis, Solon McKiian, P. :M.
Drynan, Alexander
Duncan, David
Erskine, Alexandqr Edwin
Erskine, Eugene Trafton
Faller, George Rudolph, P. M.
Frank, Arthur Adluft'
11

Griffiths, Benjamin James
Halsey, Henry Hyer
Hanique, Jules Edmond
Hepner, John Frederick
Hill, David
Holmes, William John
Jacobs, Lorenzo
Jameson, James William
J oesink, Bernard Henry
Kempster, Charles
Ketchum, .Frank
Knapp, James Beebe, P. M ,
LaKamp, Frank
LaKamp, John Henry, P. M.
Lamphrey, Frank
Lane, William Willis
Lear, Willio.m Henry

...
'•

162

ROSTER

Linder, Robert Edward
Lohman, Peter
Mackay, John Gordan
McCormack, Malcolm
McKenzie, Benjamin Bliss, P. M.
Nelson, Charles Robert, P. M
Nicholls, John
Nicholls, Sydney Walton
Noyes, Henry Leonard
Noyes, Mark Fish
Peck, William E.
Powers, Edgar Bowe, P. M.
Price, William W.

ROSTER

Rickenback, John Wilson
Robie, Ira Allen
Robinson, Walton
Ross, Howe
Rupert, Delos Moore
Schmidt, George Wilhelm
Shaffer, John Wesley
Stewart, James David
Sherriff, Henry
Thomas, John
Towle, Arthur Warren
Towle, George Gould
· Walker, Hugh Smith

Boynton, Albert Eugene, P. M.
Breslauer, Theo, Louis
Bullington, Perry Franklin
Burnight, Geo. C.
Christie, Robert Miner
Clemence, Reginald
Cleveland, Judson A.
Cleveland, Newton
Clifford, Reginald George
Cline, Charles Stephenson
Cline, Clarence Charles
Cobb, Sherman Tecumseh
Coverston, Mellor Herbert
Crossen, Elmer lliarcellus
Crossley, William Lybrand
Crowe, Claude Grant, P. M.
Dalzell, Richard
de Franco, Frank
de Zoucha, Hubert F.
Diehl, William Oscar
Dreher, Charles John
Dungan, Jesse Holland
Durbrow, William
Dyer, George Washington
Dyer, George Sterling
Ellis, Charles Le Roy
Fairchild, Ernest Day
Fairchild, Howard
Felton, George
Fletcher, Harry
Gardner, Charles Walter
George, Frank Elwin
Gilbert, George Henry
Gingles, William Wilson
Gordon, John
Grace, James Wilmer, P. M
Grace, Robert Patrick
Graham, Harry Todd
Graham, Herbert James, P, M.
Gray, Carleton, P. M.
Green, Louis Lincoln
Green, Robnrt Moore
Gregory, Hiram Doyle
Griggs, Charles Brown
Haddock, William Herbert

-60

WIT}lDRA WN:
Berry, John Murray

Maker, George Lemuel

DIED:
Schow, Henry Johnson
H uysink, :nernard Henry

OROVILLE LODGE, No.

103.

Oroville, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, last Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Walter White Reece, Master,
Charles Stephenson Cline, Chaplain,
Oroville, Cal.
Richard Ernest F. Uren, Sen. Deac.,
Richard Pierson Blood, Sen. ivard., George Woolf, Junior Deacon,
Douglas Reis Jacobs, Jun . Warden, Roger Sylvester Kitrick, Marshal,
Herbert James Graham, Treasurer, Charles Benjamin Griggs, Steward,
Floyd Lawrence Humphrey, Sec'ty., Raymond Anthony Leonard, Steward,
Oroville, Cal.
Daniel Hilton, Tyler.

Aaronson, Geo. Cahoon
Ackerman, George Lorenz
Anthony, Arthur Wilton
Atchison, Thomas Andrew
Atkin, James Henry
Atkins, Frank
Bailey, William
Bennett, George Wilbur

MEMBERS:
Blockley, Edward
Blood, Charles Ai
Blood, Delos Moody
Blood, Richard Pierson
Boalt, Eben
Boalt, Gilbert Denison
}loring, David McClure
' Boring John Harrison

l

Halderman, William
Hale, John Wesley
Hamlyn, John Joseph, P. M.
Harmon, Benjamin Franklin
Hecker, Frederick William
Helms, Houstan
Henderson, . Howard
Herrin, William James
Hill, William
Hills, Darwin Oscar
Hilton, Daniel, P. M.
Hogan, James Harvey, Jr.
Hover, Charles Giles
Howard, Winfield Lee
Howell, John Russell
Huffart, Charles Andrew
Humphrey, Floyd
Huntington, Chas. Frederick
Jacobs, Douglas Reis
Jacobs, Leslie Louis
Jacoby, Harry, P. M.
James, Francis Evan
James, Thomas Ward, P. M.
Johnson, August
Johnson, John Charles
Jones, Albert Foster
Jones, Edward Brant
Kalsch, Frank
Keifer, William Hammon
Kelley, Thomas Joseph
· Keyes, George David •
Kitrick, Roger Sylvester, P. M.
Lantz, John Delbert
Lawton, Scott
Lee, Thomas Corydon
I .. eonard, Redmond A.
Lindsay, Ernest Edison
Lloyd, Frederick Osborn
Long, Jacob Michael
Maack, Frederick William
Macfarlane, Donald, P. M.
MacKusick, Edward Mansfield
Mann, ;\rthur Riley
Mann, Joseph Aaron
Mansfield, George Campbell

163

164

ROSTEK

Mnnsfield, Isaac LeRoy
Marks, Harold Joe
Marks, Leon Heilbron
Martin, Frederick William
Matthews, George Henry
McCall, William McLellan
McConnoughy, Charles William
McGuffin, James Abraham
McKenzie, Colin Randolph
McKnight, George William
McNulty, Bert Duncan
Meek, Bert Brokham
Mangler, Henry Andreas
Merrill, Austin Page
Merrill, Gilman Berlin
Myer, John Frederick E .
Myers, John Franklin
Meyers, Mark C.
Mitchell, Edward James
Moncure, Ashby
Morse, Anthony Wayne
Moulin, Ferdinand Victor
Mullen, James Joseph
Murphy, Albert Leslie
Newbold, Edwin Henry
Park, James Milne, P. M.
Patterson, Willis Howard
Prince, Luther Adelbert
Reardan, Thomas Birkhead
Reece, Walter White
Riehl, Albert Sigel
Rippey, George Washington
Roderick, Harry Leslie Lyle
Roscoe, Thomas Howell
Sangster, Joseph Edwin
Schoof, August Claus
Sennett, Joseph Benton

Short, Howard Porter
Simmons, Edward
Simon, Samuel 9Ji1.muel, P. M.
Smullen, Harry Leslie
Soares, John Stanislanr
B11rague, Frederick Adams
Stapleton, Robert George
Stedman, Francis Marion
Steele, Harry Oskar
Stickney, David
Sullivan, John
Telford, George
·Toms, Homer Smith, P. M.
Totman, James Alexander
Travers, Walter Oats
Tucker, Ira Lester
Turner1 Fred Moreland
Turner, Wallace Ralph
Ulm, Daniel N,
Uren, Richard E. F.
Vail, Henry Eugene
Van Deinse, Francis Christia:.:>
Voorhees, Walter Pearl
Wakeham, Ed.
Wakeham, Luther
Waterhouse, John Frnncis
Wattis, Edmond Orson
Wehner, Adolph Joseph
White, James Abanatha
Whiting, Eugene Carlisle
Whiting, Frank Moore
Williams, James Madison
Wilson, John West
Winters, Charles Brown
Woodman, Charles David
Woolf, George
Wyckoff, James Louis
-180

WITHDRAWN:
Servin, Thomas Wilson
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Higgins, Martin Floyd
Ricketts, John William
Saville, Richard
Brooks, Frank

DIED:
Gray, John Carleton

ROSTER

LEXINGTON LODGE, No.

165

104-

El Monte, Los Angeles County,
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. Bee Appendix.)

'

MEMBERS:
Ashton, Ordie Delos
Irwin, Carl Ellis
Baker, Isaac Funk, P. M.
Irwin James
Barton, John Waterman
Irwin, John
Beck, Charles Edward
Irwin, Robert John
Bell, Thomas
Irwin, William B.
Boyer, Samuel Calvin
Kallmeyer, Cornelius
Broaded, George Delbert
Kallmyer, Theophilos
Cash, Edward
Kauffman, Milton
Cleminson, Hugh D.
Kauffman, Isaac F.
Cleminson, James D.
Killian, Jonas Edwin
Cleveland, Grover
Killian, Jonas 8.
Coffin, George He~ P. M.
Killian, Josiah B.
Cogswell, Prescott Franklin
Killian, Lawson B.
Collins, Leonidas Edwin
Lambert, Thomas F.
Cowan, George W.
Langstadter, Isaac
Uross, George Ells
Lawton, Homer
Davis, Matthew J.
Mannon, Orin Adrian
Davis, William C.
Mantay, William
DeGarmo, Rollie Frank
McCaige, George Dier
Dewhurst, Charles
McCoy, John
Dietzel, John William
McLagan, Charles David
Dietzel, Julius
McLeod, John David, P. M.
Dodson, Elbert Jones
McMichael, Thomas Reese
Drake, Alfred C., P. M.
Morris, Edwin
Elliott, Alexander
Parrish, Elkanah C.
Elliott , William
Pearson, William Robert, P. M.
Ellington, Harry A.
Pollard, Thoma11
Farmer, Louis
Potthoff, Robert
Gardner, Robert
Prillman, Joseph
Gordon, Charles Eager
Raab, Carl FJtederick
Harper, William
•
Rankin, Robert
Houston, John
Renfro, George B.
Houston, Thomas
Richards, Muscrado R.
Hudson, .Josiah Whitcomb, P. M.
Robinson, Houston Milton
Hudson, William Rowland, P. M.
Rowland, Davis

166

ROSTER

ROSTER

Sappington, Frank P.
Saylin, Isaac
Severe, Willis
ShirpRher, Ephraim J.
Soward, Charles
Stang, Fred
Stanton, Alva Uriah
Stanton, Frank Harden
Stanton, Harry Nt>land
Taylor, Rolland D.

Thurman, Joseph Coy, P. M.
Walker, William Thomas
Watson, Arlow Alvin
Wernett, Joseph William
Wiesh, Moses·
Wilbur, George Lincoln
Whitaker, ~arry E.
Wiggins, Thomas J.
Wood, Robert Lee
Woods, Harry .Johnston, P. M . -90
WITHDRAWN:
Sawyer, W. S.
DIED:
Kallmeyer, Paul

ARCATA LODGE, No.

106.

Arcata, Hutnboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each I!lonth.
OFFICERS:

George Horatio Burchard, Master, James McDonald Moore, Chaplain,
Arcata, Cal.
David Wood, S enior Deacon,
......................................, Senior Warden , H enry Stanly Seely, Junior Deacon,
John Franklin Burton, Jun. Ward., Charles Isaiah H arpst, Marshal,
N oah H . F alk, Treasurer,
Charles Clayborne Crawford, Stew.,
Jeremiah Ralph Brown, S ecretary, Norman A lbert Graham, Steward,
Arcata, Cal.
Philip Mathews, T yler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, James Peter
Carter, lfatthew Collins
Averell, George William
Cave, Richard Walter
Baldwin, Hubert Alexander
Chamberlain, Willis Elmer
Barber, Herbert Anson
Christie, Alexander
Barnes, Alfred
Cooper, Arthur Fenimore
Bell, Philetus
Crawford, Luther James
tienton, John Franklin
Cropp, Daniel Tappenden
Bohmansson, Robert Hugo
Culiberg, Isaac, Jr.
Brfaard, Etienne Dupuy
Davies, Jasper Newton, P . M.
Brown, Jeremiah Ralph
Deming, Byron Briggs
Bull, Ralph Waldo
Devlin, Elmer Leslie
Burchard, George Horatio, P. M.
Drewry, Charles Henry

Duprey, Alfred Isadore
Emerson, Thomas Henry
Emerson, Thomas Ruthven
Ericson, August William
Everding, Louis Charles
Falk, Charles Eugene
Falk, Noah H.
Falor, Frank Eugene
Fountain, Ma thew Francis
Garrett, William Xenophon
Gillis, Cecil Edgar
Gillis, Walter Henry
Graeter, Luther Drury
Graham, N orrnan A.
Greenwald, Moses, P. M.
Gross, Martin
Hansen, Charles Emile
Hansen, Peter Andreas
Harpst, Charles Isaiah, P. M.
Harpst, George Wilson
Hawton, Robert
Heckman, Willia m H enry Harrison
Henry, Frank Wellington
Henry, James Wellington
Horel, Francis R.
Houda, Antone Joseph
Houda, Bohemia! Antonin
Houda, J ohn Paul
Hunter, Wm. Fletcher
Jack.son, Harry Woodville
Johnson, Joseph
Jones, Robert Lewis
Kallstrom, Charles August
Kane, John Ewings
Keller, William
Kirby, William Henry
Korbel, Joseph Frank, Jr.
Krohn, Julius John, P. M.
Larsen, Abraham
Mandahl, Carl nuetav
Marken, Oetje Herman G., P. M.
Marvin, George D.
Mathews, Philip
McGowan, Daniel Walter
McMillan, Roland

167

Menefee, Joseph Senevy
Menefee, Peter Mason
Monkman, J ohn Francis
Moore, Frederick John
Moore, Henry
Moore, James McDonald
Morrell, Frank Edward, P. M.
¥yers, Sylvester
.
Nelson, James Krag
N csman, Andrew
Nixon, Charies Henry
Nixon, William
Noe, J esse Lafayette
Ogilvey, William Henry
Parr, Ralph Richardson
Parton, John
Patenaude, Amos Octave
Patenaude, Emanuel
Perigot, Gustave
Petch, Thomas Robert
Preuss, Theodore Reinhold
Roberts, Melvin Parker, P. M.
Roes, James
Scott, George Murdock
Seaver, Allen
Simpson, Henry
Smith, Frank Adams
Smith, Thaddeus Albert
Spring, Obadiah Hill
Stearns, George Addison
Stern, Bernard Frank
Stern, Charles F rank
Stone, Wesley Whipple, P. M.
Teal, George Franklin
Theerman, H enry Harm
Tooby, Frank Hart
Wallace, Da vid Douglas
Wiley, Rease Martin
Wilson, James
Wood, David
Wood, William Meade
Wright, Frederick Abourn
Zaruba, Vaclar
Zehender, George
-113

ROSTER

ROSTER

168

Porter, Warren Reynolds
Harvey, Edward Everett
Pritchett, Roscoe Dale
Hollingsberry, Frank George
Rich, Ellsworth Lincoln
Hudson, Frederick Ross
Rodgers, Frank
Hudson, Robert Henry
Rodgers, Henry Browder
Hudson, Thomas Swan
Rodgers, Spencer Clay
Hunsacker, Oscar William
Schaubacher, Julius Albert
Hushbeck, Andrew
Schwab, Manfred
Ish, Harry Edmund
Shaver, Eugene C.
Jarrett, Joseph Samuel
Shaw, Fra nk J oseph
Janett, Stephen Samuel, P. M.
Shearin, Daniel Thomas
Jimmison, Alvin Harry
Sill, George Wellington, P . M
Judd, Hugh William
Silliman, Charles Oscar
Keopke, Frederick Herman
Silliman, George Francis
Kilburn, Carl Mearl
Silliman, Walt er Trafton
Kilburn, Frederick Augustus
Storm, Peter
Kitchen, Henry Burton
Sterling, Alexander
King, James Isaac
Swearengen, Frank Corday
Lennard, Frederick John
MacQuiddy, Thomas Smith, P. M. Thackery, Charles Laumaster
Tolman, George Perkins
Maher, David Francis
Townsend, Palmer Gardner
Mann, Robert Wilson
Traft on, George Arthur
Mauk, E dwin Henry
·Trafton, John Edmund
Mauk, Franklin Edwin, P. M.
Trafton, Thomas Eugene
:Marsh, Lynn L .
Trafton, William Arthur
Martin, George Pardee
Trafton, Howard Valentine
McEwen, Archie Donald
Uren, Joseph R., P. M.
McEwen, John Herbert
Waters, William Lee
McGowan, Charles Wilfred
Watkinson, Alfred
McGowan, William John
Watters, Peter Kemp
Mcintosh, Geo. Dave
Weeks, William Henry
McLean, Donald Lewellan
Weisenberger, Hel\ry Conrad, P. M.
Mellander, John Raymond
West, Henry E.
Mollerskov, Knud Bendeyen
White, Charles John·
Morey, John Jaeob
Wilkinson, Walter John
Morgan, George Duiguid
Willett, Frederick William, P. M.
Nichelson, Murdock
Wilson, Frederich 8herman
Nobrden, Frederic Herman
Wood, Robert Edward
Nobrden, Edward Henry.
Wright, Thomas Marion
Orum, Louis George
Wyckoff, Herbert Cope
Palmtag, Charles A.
Zimmerman, Edward Henry
Palmtag, Elmer Rowe
-121
Porter,_ Edwin Everett
DIED:
Vaughan, George
Brassell, Hans Peter
Tuttle, Iowa H arley
Cox, John Francis

WITHDRAWN:
Falk, Elijah

Stewart, Adam Hugh

DIED:
Harpster, Irvine Levi

PAJARO LODGE, No. no.
Watsonville, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Henry Nohrden, Master,
Charles Laumaster Thackery, Chap.,
150 W. Lake Ave., Watsonville. Thomas Martin Wright, S en. Deac.,
Robert Henry Hudson, S en. Warden, Lynn L. Marsh, Junior Deacon,
Ernest Hanson Haack, Ju<n. Warden, Thomas Smith MacQuiddy, Marshal,·
Charles Alvin Palmtag, Treasurer, William Lee Waters, Steward,
Henry Conrad Weisenburger, S ec'ty., Frank Joseph Shaw, Steward,
444 Main St., Watsonville.
Palmer Gardner Townsend, Tyler.

Akers, Roy Oliver D.
Alexander, Jewel
Alexander, Louis Sol
Anderson, Carl
Andrews, Perry Morton
Arnold, Carl A.
Austin, Frederick Sans
Bailey, Roy Van
Baker, Cary Hanna
Barton, Timothy Guy
Beck, Andrew Peter
Beebe, Charles Emmell
Bellamy, Benson Clark, P. l!i!:.
Benteen, William Henry
Bixby, William Aaron
Brewington, George Francis
Brewillgton, George Hamilton
Brewington, Harry B.
Briggs, Charles Oscar
Bro~, Walter Stephen
Burland, Edward Grant
Burland, William Henry

169

MEMBERS:
Campbell, Robert Edgar ·
Chapman, Frank Joel
Cheesebrough, Charles Edwin
Clark, Edgar Lewis
Cleveland, George Clifton
Coffman, Stephen William
Cooper, William Burton
Cox, Arnold William
Cutler, James Willoughby
Delmere, Alexander
Dresser, Arthur Thomas, P. M.
Easterday, George Speltine
Eckert, William Lloyd
Ferguson, William
Foltz, John B.
. Foltz, Wm. Sheridan
Gardner, Jonathan Edward, P. M.
Haack, Ernest H.
Ha=el, William Henry
Hanson, Eugene Waldron
Harford, Lyman
Harris, John Franklin

..

170

ROSTER

CHICO LODGE, No.

ROSTER

III.

Chico, Batte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Chester Happy Roake, Master,
Charles Henry Camper, Chaplain,
942 6th St., Chico, Cal.
Roy Gordon Estes, Senior Deacon,
Fred Hunt Groat, Senior Warden, Lloyd Costar, Junior Deacon,
Harry Davis March, Junior Warden, Jefferson Davis March, Marshal,
Samuel Kansas Troxel, Treasurer, Hale Hartford Lothrop, Steward,
August Leonard Neubarth, Sec'ty., John Harvey McQuiston, Steward,
P. 0. Box 157, Chico.
Harmon McCargar, Tyler.

•

MEMBERS:
Adams, Isaac Benjamin
Canfield, Eugene Erastus
Alexander, George Randall
Carney, George Washington
Allen, George Claude
Carpenter, Cnester Roy
Chalmers, Solomon Henry
Anderson, Fred John
Anderson, Frederick Martin
Chambers, James
Andrews, Charles Abram
Clark, Liston
Applegate, William James
Cleek, Andrew William
Axtell, Samuel Thomas
Clifford, Charles A.
Baker, Walter Jay
Clough, Francis Albert
Baney, George Wayne
Collins, William Alexander
Barnard, Timothy Henry, P. M.
Costar, William James, P. M
Barr, Zacoriah T.
Cooke, John George
Batham, Lloyd Arthur
Cooney, George Elmo
Becker, Carl Herman
Cooper, Daniel Wirt
Bennett, Jesse W.
Costar, Garrison
Bennett, Wesley Valentine
Costar, Lloyd
Crabb, James Nelson
Bernhard, Harry Herman
Crail, Luke Dillard
Bohlander, Thomas L.
Bonham, William Harland
Crew, William Henry
Boucher, Josiah, Jr.
Crouch, Ben Elisha
Bowman, William James
Crowder,. Clifford Lee
Boyles, Samuel Nelson
Cuddeback, Edson N.
Bradley, William Leroy
Cunningham, Charles Arnold
Brandstatt, John Nelson
Cunningham, Wilburn Wagenseller
CusMick, Barney
Broyles, Adam Courtney
Cussick, John
Bryan, Elden Ebert
Burroughs, Lew Lyon
Cummings, Charles Edward
Daly, John Carqiff, P. M.
Campbell, Joseph Hanes
Camper, Charles Henry, P. M.
Dean, William Benjamin

...

Deci-Ous, Joseph Vernon
Decious, Joseph Warren
Degnan, George William
Dillon, Thomas Franklin
Dooley, Jay Wilbur
Downing, Harry Rufus
Downing, Homer John
Dugger, James Madison, P. M.
Durham, Robert Wellington
Enloe, Newton Thomas
Entler, Joseph Franklin
Erickson, Philip Roswell
Estes, Roy Gordon
Evans, Joseph Mabery
Faulkner, Louis Glass, P. M
Fell, Edward Robert
Florence, Edwaril Walter
Garner, Leon Mason
Garnier, Thomas Ralph
Groat, Fred Hunt
Goodwin, Frederic Carlton
Guill, Lee Bryan
Guynn, Creed Ashley
Guynn, Pleasant Marion
Guynn, William Rose
Harden, Jesse R.
Harris, Charles
Haughton, Joseph Richardson
Harvey, John Wesley, P. M.
Raster, Richard
Hendricks, Thomas Perry
Henshaw, Park
Heron, Patrick L. W.
Hilliard, Marion
Holmes, Frederick N.
Hughes, Charles S.
Isham, Edwin
James, Evan Albert
Johnson, TheodJre
Jones, George Washington
Jones, Ralph Taylor
Jones, Samuel
Kellom, Arthur Sylvester
Kern, Ralph
Kerr, Archibald Thompson, P. M.

171

Kennedy, John Wm. Mackay, P. M.
Kennedy, William Freeman
Lane, Frederick Walter
Lausen, Henry Datlef
Lebourvran, Arthur James
Lebourveau, Clarence Wilt
Lightfoot, Homer Franklin
Lingo, Arthur
Lothrop, Hale Hartford
Lovett, William Bottimore
Lowell, George A.
Lung, Alfred William .I!'.
Macdonald, Angus Campbell
Maltby, William Frederick
March, Charles Alexander
March, Harry Davis
March, James Franklin
March, Jefferson Davis, P. M
Martien, Joseph Gilbnt
Martin, James
McAnarlin, William
Mccargar, Harmon, P. M.
McGrath, Harry Hill
McGuffin, Virgil Newton
McKenzie, Earl L.
Means, Samuel Boyd
Messinger, John Gardner
Messinger, Reuben Henry
Meybem, Emil, P. M.
Miller, George Ogden
Miller, William Henry, P. M
Mitchell, Js.mes Ewing
Moir, Harry Saunders
Montgomery, James W. Bra<lfrnl
Moody, Stephen Prescott
Morgue, August William
Morton, Austin Earl
Morse, George Payson
Nelson, Henry
Neubarth, August Leonard
Newton, Oran
Nichols, Harry Evan
Nottelmann, Frederick Jacob, P. M..
Nunn, Samuel Johnson
Nunn, William Harper, P. M

172

ROSTER

Nugent, Harry George
Oberweis, Joseph
Peake, William Humphrey
Perry, William Sabie
Phillips, Leon William, P. M.
Phillips, Richard, P. M.
Picton, Thomas George
Polk, Thomas H. Benton
Polle, William Downs
Power, Robert Wright
Rawlins, William Franklin
Reynolds, Ed. •.rmotson, P. M.
Reynolds, Sherman Allyn
Richardson, Clarence Colin
Richardson, Harry Eugene
Roake, Chester Happy
Robbie, William, P. M.
Robinson, John Rose
Rogers, Joseph Henry
Roper, John Wesley
Roper, Louis Westacott
Roohr, Francis Louis
Roth, Harry Augustus
Satrord, Edwy Knight
Sanborn, Alphonso Henry
Sauber, Edwin Stanton
Sawyers, Frank Edward
Schilling, John Stephen
Schmidt, George
Schooler, William Henry
Sears, Hal K.
Sewell, Leo Alverton
Shaw, B!lker Ewing
Gluckman, Arthur Walter

Shaw, George Thomas
Shirley, Lemuel Crittenden
Spangler, Levi !rad
Spencer, Thomas Cass
Stansbury, Oscar
Stoker, Frank Lewis
Stubbs, Richard Nelson
Sutcliffe, Emmott Walton
Taylor, Gilbert Hart
Terstegge, Frank Wm.
Thatcher, Frank Marion
Thomas, Jesse G.
Thrower, John Oscar
Thrower, Jop,eph Bennett
Tormey, Bernard Eugene
•.rripp, Charles Ammi
Troxel, Kansas Buchanan
Troxel, Samuel Kan~as, P. M.
Turner, William Albert
'!:adney, Edward Comilla
Vadney, George Edward
Washburn, Francis M.
Waterland, John Sanford
Weaver, Herman Bowman
White, Harry Darius
Wilde, Will Chaler
Will, William Emerson
Winchester, William C. S.
Winders, Archie
Wooley, Vernor Stearns
Young, Dillard Marion
Young, James
Young, Joseph Rankin, P. M. -2U

WITHDRAWN:
Keppel, Garret
Lacey, Frank Belcher

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cecil, George Francis
Schultz, William Henry
Linn, William Burney
DIED:
Hegan, James

ROSTER

178

SUMMIT LODGE, No. n2.
Knight's Ferry, Stanialaua County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Walter Bismark Willms, Master,
Charles Thomas Kennedy, S. Deac.,
Knight's Ferry, Cal.
Philip Gabel, Junior Deacon,
Fred Willard Marston, Sen. Ward., William Godfrey Bach, Marshal,
Alfred Edward Gatzman, Jun. Ward., William Alfred Tucker, Steward,
Alfred Gatzman, ·Treasurer,
William Gable, Steward;
Thomas H. Prowse, Secretary,
Nills J. G. Jorgensen, Tyler.
Knight's Ferry, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Griffin, Francis Leonidas, P . M.
Hocker, Joseph Lee, P. M.
Jorgensen, Nills Jorgen Wm.
Kennedy, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Logan, William David, P. M.
Lowe, Eugene Heber
Marston, Frederick Willard
Morgan, Frank Albert
Ostrom, Gilbert Abram
Prowse, Thomas Harvey, P. M.
Stephenson, Kenneth Martin
Tucker, William Alfred
Tulloch, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Tulloch, David Whitelaw
Tulloch, John Franklin
Tulloch, Praben Neilson
Willms, Walter Bismarck, P. M. -34

Bach, William Francis
Bach, William Godfrey, P M.
Beck, John
Bentley, Jet?erson Daniel
Boone, Tobias Belt
Campbell, William Edward, P M.
Carmichael, Daniel Whitfield
Cole, Eady Edward
Colley, George Stanley
Collins, He!'bert
Collins, Nelson Ernest
Edwards, David Franklin, P. M.
Gabel, Philip
Gable, William
Gatzman, Alfred, P. M.
Gatzman, Alfred Edward
Gookin, Albert Millard

WITHDRAWN:
Lowe, Nilus Orfila

ROSTER

ROSTER

17'

EDEN LODGE, No. u3.
San Leandro, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Joseph Burtrin Mills, Master,
John Driver, Chaplain,
San Leandro, Cal.
John Baron Peppin, Senior Deacon,
Monroe Drew, Senior Warden,
Harris Palmer Jones, Junior Deacon,
Wilton Woods Shuhaw, Jun. Ward., George Harvey Ohea, Marshal,
Oscar Jackson Lynch, Treasurer,
Joseph Chrysostomo, Jr., Steward,
Charles Wildy MCLaughlin, Sec'ty., Clarence Nathan Cooper, Steward,
San Leandro, Cal.
Herman Fred'k. Wm. Helms, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Dyer, Edmund Marce:.Ius
Eagar, Thomas C.
Fassett, Charle& Edgar
1i'enn, Edward Thomas Ernest
Fisher, Ferdinanu 0.
Femming, John V .
Force, Sydney Briggs, P. M.
Frank, John Nepsomick
Gall, William
Gates, Dawson Dave
Geisenhofer, Rudolph F. W.
Gray, Newton
Grebe, Herman Frederick
Greene, Daniel Edward
Hamlin, Benejah Ralph
Hansen, Albert Laurita, P. M.
Hansen, Jens Christian
Hansen, Robert
Hansen, Sophus A. E.
Helms, Charles Edmund
Helms, George Joseph, P. M.
Helms, Herman Fred. W., P. M.
Henricksen, Henry
Henricksen, Neils
Henricksen, Neils (2)
Hill, Otis
Hite, William Edward
Hoffman, Eugene
Holmgren, John Alexander

Abernathy, Henry
Ballard, Eugene Cogswell
Barbeiro, Joseph Enos
Barton, Henry Clay
Best, Clarence Leo
Birchinall, Edwin John
Black, Horace Greeley
Boberg, Joseph Andrew
Brown, Alfred Persons
Cary, Amzi B., P. M.
Cary, Harry Ellis
Cary, Talcott Petekin
Christiansen, Chris Frederick
Chrysostomo, Joaquin
Chrysostomo, J!l11eph Jr.
Clark, William Amie, P. M.
Coleman, Charles La Grange
Coleman, George La Grange
Cowie, George Henry
Crabb, Antonio Enos
Crabb, Allie Louis
Crabtree, Fred
Crane, Clarence Burnham
Cosby, George Fairfax
Cunningham, William F ., P. M.
Dawborn, Charles
Deweese, Leonard Harrison
Drew, Monroe
Driver, John

Hopper, John F. Ernest, P. M
Hurlbut, Charles Benjamin
Jackson, David
Jeffers, Samuel
Jess, William
Jones, Harris Palmer
Jorgensen, Nicholas Wm.
Jorgensen, Otto Christian
Kern, Jacob Fred
Kirman, Herman Warren
Knox, George Randall
Landis, Herbert Lee, P. M.
Leland, Frank Milton
Lenox, David Hudson
Logan, George William
Lynch, Oscar Jar.kson
Lynch, Walter Norman
MacKeown, George Arthur
Marlin, Henry Bowers
Martin, Henry Whitney
Martin, Robert Anthony
Matson, Martin Bauder
Matson, William
McLaughlin. Charles Wildy
Medhurst, Charles Sturgeon
Mendell, E<lmund Dall
Mendell, .Tohn Martin
Meyers, Fred Olin
Miller, Charles Howard
Mills, Joseph Bertrin
Montgomery, William Stewart
Morin, Hercules Andre, P. M.
Mortensen, George Emil
Odgers, Frederick Thomas
Offersen, Niels
Ohea, George Harvey, P. M.
Oliver, Durett

175

Olsen, Henry Christian
Page, Robert Stapleton
Pagel, Frerl
Park, Vitalis Henry
Pelton, Allen Eli, P. M.
Peppin, James Baron
Petersen, John
Peterson, Peter John
Pimentel, Francisco
Plummer, Walter Bruce
Preston, Valentine Gilston
Reid, Alexander Baer
Reid, -Lohn G.
Rollins, Edwin Oregon
Ross, Henry Raymond
Rowles, William John
Sawyer, Thomas Edward
Schleuter, Edwin Charles
Shuhaw, William Woods
Singleton, John
Smith, James Dale
Smith, Kirby Barnitz, P. M.
Smith, Louis Napoleon Bonaparte
Smith, Will H.
Stenzel, Fritz
Sturtevant, Noah Thomas, P. M.
Tofl'elmier, Doui,rlas lrlyssis
Treadwell, James
·
Watkins, Edmund Anderson, P. M.
Weaver, Albert S.
Wemmer, William Leonard
Wilkie, Thomas B.
Will, John August Thomas
Young, Robert Douglas
Youi:1g, James Harry
Young, William Henry, P. M.
Zerweck, Walter Ernest
-133

176

ROST:h:R

CONCORD LODGE, No. n7.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first. Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Franklin Edwin Earl Stahl, Master, Isaac Dawson, Chaplain,
724 Montclair Ave.
Fred'k. Chesbrow Hunt, Sen. Deac.,
Henry Andrew Senf, Senior Warden, Ryall Clyde Eyerly, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Fred'k. Frieseke, Jun. Ward., John Henry Gilpin, Marshal,
George H. Wm. Lichthardt, Treas., Charles Ewald Vorlander, Steward,
William Henry Hevener, Secretary, Richard Henry Laeremans, Steward,
Masonic Temple.
Albert Elgin Robinson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Appleton, William Henry
Gilmore, Robert McCallen
Gilpin, John Henry, P. M.
Beaton, Carl William, P. M.
Beech, William Don, P. M.
Godwin, Thomas
Bicknell, Hilliard Cottingham
Green, Charles Fredrick
Bicknell, Raymond Bolcher
Gregory, Eugene Julius, P. M.
Bishop, Arthur Tucker
Guthrie, John William
Book, Franklin Weaver
Harrell, Albert Marshal
Bonetti, Celio
Harris, George J., P. M.
Harris, William Wesley
Bowes, William Edward
Bowsher, Amos Luther
Harvey, Gregory Lucas
Boyd James Maddison
Heilbron, Henry August, P. M.
Braddock, Alfred Mcintire, P. M.
Heilbron, Henry Adolph, Jr.
Bradley, James Anderson
Hery, Robert Leopold
Brendel, John Philip
Hesson, Thomas Joseph, P. M.
Carroll, Edgar Barclay, P. M.
Hevener, William Charles
Hevener, William Henry, P. M.
Carroll, John Francis
Holzinger, Herman
Caswell, William Averill
Chapman, John Maurice, P. M.
Hunt, Fredrick Chesbrow
Intine, WiUiam John
Clhatfield, Thomas F.
James, James Merrill
Doggett, Calhoun Jules
Jones, William
Dawson, Isaac
Jordan, Luther Campbell
Druge, Otto Daniel
Kehlenbeck, Nicholas George
Dunbar, Alexander
Korn, Seymour
Duncan, Cornelius
Laeremans, Richard Henry
Eyerly, Ryan Clyde
Lang, Joseph
Farris, Horace Orland
Fox, Thomas, P. M.
Lichthardt, George Henry P.
Lichthardt, George W. Henry
Frieseke, William Fredrick
Lindsay, William Kinkade
Gillinwaters, Grant Franklin

ROSTER
Lyon, James Francis, P. M.
Martin, George Washington
Matthias, Louis Wm., P. M.
Mattson, Irving Byron
Mattson, Melbert Adolph
McFarlane, Arthur Alpine
Menke, John
Moll, Philip Harry
Morris, Chester Culwell
Morten, John L.
Nuttall, Levi, P. M.
0 'Brien, Alfred W oodburry
Oldfield, Alfred Budd
Oldfield, Wm. Baggaley, P. M.
Olson, Anders Herman
Pearl, Frederick Albert, P. M.
Perschke, Otto Julius
Platt, Philemon Eli
Pope, Samuel, Jr.
Poska, Samuel
Props, Joel Lee
Reinig, Rowland Benard
Reynold!!, George Henry
Richards, William
Robinson, Albert Elgin, P. M.
Saemann, Carl

Sanborn, Alfred Willie
Sanderson, Marion
Shepherd, George Frederick, P. M.
Schindler, Louis Cyrus, P. M.
Schocke, Oaarles August, P. M.
Schroth, J obn George
Schumacher, George Max
Schumacher, Oscar Henry
Senf, Henry Andrew
Simmonds, William Shape!
Simonsen, Carl
Smith, Alexander Miller
Smith, Charles Freeman
Smith, Eli Mitehel
Stahl, Franklin Edwin Earl
Tovelle, Roy Geeting
Vicary, George Salser
Vorlander, Chas Ewald
Wahrhaftig. Moses Solomon
Walsh, William
Watkins, Richard, P. M.
W11tkins, Riehard Malcolm
Whitelaw, John, P. M.
Wylie, John Wellington, P. M.
Yocum, William Kendall
Young, William Henry
-110

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
McAllister, Welf~d Clarence
DIED:
Fischer, Henry

12

177

Gerrish, Samuel Howard
Menke, Anton

178

ROSTER

ROSTER

CLINTON LODGE, No. ng.

179

FIDELITY LODGE, No. 120.

1go, Shasta County.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masonic Temple.

State1l Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Francis Marion A. Wilder, Master, Thomas ]. Simpson, Sen. Deacon,
Igo, Cal.
Edward Dennis Jones, Ju11. Deacon,
Wm. Jeremiah Hammons, S. Ward., Carl George Voss, Marshal,
T. Alonzo Jones, Junior Wa.rden,
Robert Jones, Steward,
William Bert Hammons, Treasurer, James W. George, Steward,
Charles Nelson Kingsbury, Sec'ty., Lewis Albert Davison, Tyler.
Igo, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Kingsbury, John Parker
Anderson, Frank Anthony
Lagerson, Frederick William
Barlou, Lewis Forest
Leiter, Alexander, Jr., P. M.
Berg, Robert
Leiter, Alexandn, Sr., P. M.
Boyd, Charles
Davison, Lewis Albert, P. M.
~wis, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Libe, Bert Ray
Drynan, Angus Jamee
Montgomery, James Logan
Eldridge, Millard Filmore
Moon, James Looman
Forechler, Bert William
Moore, Joseph
George, Charles Grant
Nealy, Clarence
George, Charles Whittington
Peterson, Nelson James
George, James Whittington, P. M.
*Porter, Henry Isaac Smith
Gilbert, Thomas Martin
Reid, John Stephen
Gill, James William
Richter, Charles Herman
Hammons, William Bert
Simpson, Thomas .Tefferson
Hammons, William Joshua
Slater, Elmer Prank
Hanson, Victor Leslie
Higgins, Henry Everett
Smith, George William
Higgins, James Blanchard
Simmons, John Francis
Jones, Edward Dennis, P. M.
Thompson, Edward George
VoRs, Carl George
Jones, Robert, P. M.
Jones, ThaddiuR Alonzo, Jr.
Wilder, Francis Marion A.
Kingsbury, Albert Nelson, P . M.
Williams, Harry Eliotte
Kingsbury, Charles Barnes
Woodfill, Charles Dillon
Kingsbury, Charles Nelson, P. M.
-47

OFFICERS:

Joshua Harry Bloom, Master,
Victor Aaron, Senior Deacon,
708 Ashbury St.
Herman Moses Wallenstein J Deac
Benjamin .Kraus, Senior . Warden,
Henry Hersch Hart, Marshal,·
.,
Sholom S1l~erstone, Jumor Warden, Herbert Spencer Bibbero, Steward,
Joseph David Abrams, Treasurer,
Alfred Elias Hofmann Steward
Frederick Barry, Secretary,
Mitchell Joseph Myers, 'Tyler.
'
112 Market St.
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Leopold
Barry, Arthur Edward
~aron, Victor
Barry, Frederick
Abraham, Max
Baruch, Frederick
Abrahams, Newton Abe
Bauer, Moses
Abrahm, Samuel
Bauer, Samuel
Abrahm, Benjamin
Beck, John Alex.
Abrahm, Henry
. Behm, Emanuel
. ~brams, Augustus David
Bender, Noah Wilhelm
Abrams, Henry Moses
Berg, Sigmund Fred
Abrams, Joseph David, P. M.
Bernhard, Samuel Taylor
Adler, Albert Stanley
Bernstein, Samuel
Albro, John Philo, P. M.
Bernstein, Sylvan Lonie
Alexander, Michael Sanford
Bettman, Jerome Samuel Joseph
Allan, ClarPnce Elton
Bibbero, Herbert Spencer
Allenberg, Charles
Bienenfeld, Bernard
Anino, Juan
Bier, CharleR Sigmund
Anixter, Benjamin
Bier, Hypolite
Armer, Antl.rew Milton, P. M.
Bier, Joseph Edward
Armer, Benjamin, P. M.
Bloch, Abraham Isaac
Armer, Joseph Louis, P. M.
Bloch, Henry Maier
Armuth, Alfred Samuel
Bloch; Herbert Isaac
Aronson, Solomon
Bloch, Louii.
Arzner, Louis Adolph
Block, Ha)·ry
Baehman, Arthur
Block, Leo
Bachman, Lawrence
Block, Roy, P. M.
Baker, Samuel
Bloom, David Casper
Ballin, Maurice
Bloom, Joshua Harry
Barnett, Abraham Thomae, P. M.
Bluhm, George Irving

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kester, Herbert Harlow
Merritt, Harry Walter
*Name changed from Smith, Henry Isaac, by order of court.

l

ROSTER

180
Blumenthal, Leo
Bornstein, Morris Bello
Bouquet, Joseph Anton
Bowes, William Emette
Brandt, Maurice
Brenner, Gustave, P. lllI.
Breyer, Joseph Leopold
Brock, Irving
Brod, Amiel Henry
Brown, Abraham Lincoln
Brown, Bernard Charles
Brown, Gaston Willard
Brown, Isidor Irwing
Brown, Morris
Brown, Nathan
Brownstein, Julius
Bugbee, Maxwell Greene
Cahen, Adolf
Cahn, Harold Maier
Cahn, Julius I.
Cahn, Nathan A.
Ceeil, John
Classen, Adolph F. A.
Clingman, George Evans, P. M.
Coblentz, Jules
Coburn, MaTtin Van Buren
Cohn, Adolph
Cohn, Gabriel
Cohn, Gerson
Cohn, Leo Elias
Cohn, Newman
Cohn, Ralph Lee
Cohn, Robert David
Cohn, Samuel Francis
Cohn, Theodore, P. M.
Colt.on, Louis Arthur
Cooper, Leopold
Daglow, Leopold
Dahm, Richard Oscar
Dannenbaum, Arthur Joseph
Dannenbaum, Samuel
Dannenbaum, Sidney Ray
Davidson, Isidor Pete:;
Davis, AleL Harold
Davis, Moseo

ROSTER
Frankel, Bernard Emil
Frankel, Herman
Freed, Aleas
Friedberg, Jeffrey
Freidenrich, David
Friedlander, Louis
Friedman, Abraham Lincoln
Friedman, Max
Friedman, Nathaniel William
}'tjedmann, Lazar
Friedmann, Samuel
Frohman, Henry
Fulda, Edward
Gabriel, Julius
Galland, Barney Beau
Galland, Edward Ralph
Gambitz, Lee Robert
Gerson, Eric
Gerson, Isaac
Getleson, Harry B.
Getz, Jules Jacob
Getz, Louis
Ginsberg, Frank Isadore
Goldberg, Adolph
Goldberg, Harry Montefiore
Goldenberg, Joseph
Goldinger, Harry
Goldman, Isaac Wolf
Goldsmith, Edmund Mark
Goldsmith, Mark
Goldsmith, Samuel Edgar
Goodheart, Clarence Isaac
Goodfriend, Isidore
Goodman, Edward Abraham
Goodman, Iaadore
Goodman, Leo Lester
Gosliner, Herbert Julius
Gottleib, Paul
Gradwohl, David
G:raf, Victor Loewy
Greenebaum, Joseph Leon
Gruhn, Joseph Messing
Guggenhime, David Joseph
Hardman, Morris
Harris, Morris Markham

Davis, Sylvan Dubie
Day, Robert, P. M.
De Wolfe, Chapman
Dietrich, Benj. Johann
Dinkelspiel, Joseph Samuel
Dinkelspiel, Samuel, P. lllI.
Ehrman, Alexis Leon
Eisenbach, Julian
Eisenberg, Eugene
Eisenberg, Ignacz N.
Eisenstein, Charles
Eisner, Milton Sidney, P. lllI.
Elberg, Abraham
Rlberg, Isadore
Elberg, Solomon
Elkus, Albert Israel
Ellis, George Wentworth
Ellis, Milton Hyman
Emanuel, Joseph Lewis
Emmerling, John
Englander, Henry Max
Eppinger, Josua
Epstein, Arthur Philip
Fabian, Frank William
Falk, Camil Samson
Falkenstein, Monroe Henry
Fankhauser, Albert Julius
Feldenheimer, Alex..
Fenster, Isidore
Fetherstonhaugh, Frank C.
Fisher, Oscar
Flamm, Gustave
Flat.ow, Philip
Fleischman, Herman Franc
Fleischman, Mathias Reuben
Fletcher, David Maass
Florintine, Eugene Selig
Florintine, George Julius
Fogel, Emanuel
Fogel, George
Foley, Frederick William
Frank, Herbert Louis
Frank, Ludwig
Frank, Manuel S. Houston
Frank, Morris Emanuel

.

Harris, Neal
Hart, Henry Hersch
Hart, Mortin Edward
Hartzberg, John Maurice
Haub, Charles Conrad
Hausman, Louis
Heineman, Irving Scott
Heller, Emanuel Siegfried
Herrschcr, Joseph
Hertzman, Leo
Hertzman, Sigmund
Hexter, Daniel
Heyman, Gustave
Heyman, Julius
Heyman, Osear
Hirsch, Barnard Joseph
Hochheimer, Monroe
Hoffman, Lawrence Harold
Hoffman, Melville Gustave
Hoffman, William Joseph
Hofman, Alfred Elias
Hofmann, Leonard Isaac
Honigsberger, Leon
Hufschmidt, Louis
Hummel, Mathew George
Hyman, Abe
Hyman, Charles Shepard
Isaacs, Abraham
Ickelheimer, Samuel
Isaacs, David
Isaacs, Joshua Davis
Jacobi, Joseph Maier
Jacobovics, Philipp, P. M.
Jacobs, Aaron
Jacobs, Abraham, P. M.
Jacobs, Alfred B.
Jacobe, Alfred Henry
Jacobs, Charles Sodark
Jacobs, Hyme
Jacobs, Isidor
Jacobs, Louis Clive
Jacobs, Monroe Bernard
Jacobs, Samuel Nicholas
Jacobs, Th!'odore Henry
Jaeger, Frederick Charles

181

182
Jellinek, Emil Otto
Joseph, Isaac Charles
Joseph, Joseph
Juda, Leon
Juda, Morris
Juda, Simon Felix
Kahn, Aaron
Kahn, Frederick
Kahn, Sol
Kammerer, George
Kanter, John
Kapstein, Simon
Katten, Simon
Katz, Bert
Keiner, Herman
Kierski, Samuel
Klinger, William Mark
Koehncke, Christian Henry
Kohlberg, Albert Monroe
Kohlberg, Alfred
Kohlberg, Eugene Lincoln
Kohlberg, Manfred Selig
Kohn, Marion Heller
Korn, Albert
Korn, EugAne
Kraus, Benjamin
Krobitsch, Rudolph William
Kugber, Elbert Jay
Kutner, Abraham Lincoln
Kutz, JeBBe Warde
Lachman, Albert
Lachman, Hemy
Lafee, Marcus
Lansburgh, Simon Lazarus
Lapidaire, Harry
Latz, Benjamin
Lederer, Gustave
Lederer, Hnman
Lehouse, Louis Gustave
Leibold, Jacob George, P. M.
Leszynsky, Leon
Levin, Isidor
Levison, Charles Gabriel
Levy, Charles
Levy, Eugflr;.e Walter

ROSTER
Levy, Henry, P. M.
LeTy, Henrv
Levy, Herbert
Levy, Isaac Kaufman
Levy, Isidore Nathan, P. M.
Levy, Jack Morris
Levy, J ease Herman
Levy, JeBBe Joseph
Levy, Lambert
Levy, Louis
Levy, Meyer Solomon
Levy, Moses Louis
Levy, Morris Harris
Levy, Nyman
Levy, Philip
Levy, Sidney
Lewald, Eugene Charles
Lewin, Arthur
Lewie, Emanuel
Lewis. William
l:.ezinsky, Ferdinand Lesser
Lichtenstein, .Toy
Lichtig, Jacob Samuel
Liederman, Benjamin
Links, Adolph
Lipman, George Morris
Lipman, Louis
L.oeb, Charlfls Gerson
Loewenstein, Maurice Frank
I.oewy, Edmund
LouiBSOn, Euw81'd Baum
Lowenstein, Benard
Lowenstein, Samuel
Mack, Simon
Macy, William Hardin
Manheim, Henry Simon, P. M.
Manheim, Paul Bernard
Marks, Mannheim
Marks, Samuel Morris
Marks, William
Marx, Melville
Marx, Monroe Lloyd
Mauser, Henry
Mayer, Henry
Mayer, Max

BOSTER
Mayer, Morris
Mayer, Nate
Mayer, Oscar Joseph
Mayer, Solomon Ju.liua
McCray, Charles Carroll
McDevitt, Daniel
Mendelsohn, Morris P.
Merzbach, Felix Her:nan
Metzner, John
Meyer, Harry
Meyer, Percy Jasper
Meyer, Samuel 0.
Mierson, James Augustus
Miller, David Alexander
Miller, Isaac
Moise, Philip Henry
Morgenstern, Louis Adolph
Morris, Roy Henry
Munter, Leo
Musso, John
Myers, George Henry
Myers, Isador Bernard
Myers, Leland Stanford
Myers, Louis
Myers, Mitchel Joseph
Myers, Robert
Nathan, Bernard Israel
Nathan, llerman
Nathan, Milton Aronson
Neustadter, Louis William
Neustadter, Newton Henry
Newbauer, George Stephen
Newhouse, Hugo David
Newhouse, William Daniel
Newman, Edwin S. •
Newman, George
Newman, Julian S.
Newman, Marion
Nieto, Jacob, P. M.
Oppenheimer, Leopold
Ottenheimer, Henry Joseph
OttenheimeT Martin Carrie
Ottenheimer, Sigmund William
Pauson, Charles Arthur
Pauson, Jacob William

Pearlstein, Charles Sol.
Peyser, Hugo
Piexotto, Edgar Davie
Plaut, Charles
Polk, Samuel Jacob
Price, Abraham Robert
Price, Harry Isador
Priester, Joseph
Raas, Andre
Radius, Walter Albrecht, P. M.
Rapheld, Maurice Lehman
Redlick, Abraham Lincoln
Reinheimer, Isidor
Reyman, Harold Cleveland
Rhine, Albert Aaron
Rhine, Elias
Rich, Alfred Joseph
Richards, Theodore
Rittigstein, Jacob Meyer
Roberts, Andrew Wellington
Robitscher, Earl Moses
Rosenbaum, Albert Sidney
Rosenbaum, Samuel Moses
Rosenberg, Melville
Rosenberg, Melville Benjamin
Rosenblum, Samuel
Rosener, Charles Samuel
Rosenthal, Joseph
Rooenthal, Marcus
Ross, Bernard
Roth, Maximilian
Rothbach, Benjamin
Rothchild, Herbert Lionel
Rothchild, Samuel
Rothschild, Charles
Rothschild, John
Rudee, Henry Elkan
Ruff, Daniel
Sahlein, Moses
Salfield, David
Samter, Marks
Samter, Samuel Marks
Sapiro, Aaron Leland
Sapiro, Philip Herman
Savannah, Michael

183

184

ROSTER

Scharlach, Edmund Abraham
Schirmer, Frederick August F.
Schlessinger, Charles, P. M.
Schmidt, Maurice
Sehmulian, Alfred
Schnaittacher, Sylvain
Schneider, Morris Nathan
Schoenfeld, David Michel
Schoenfeld, Jacob
Schoenfeld, Leo
Schussler, Henry
Schutz, Jacob Julius
Schwabacher, Louis Abraham
Schwarz, Charles
Schwarzschild, Julius
Schweitzer, Maurice
Seeligsohn, Selig Max
Selig, Philip
Sichel, Henry
Sideman, Morris
Sideman, Morris Jacob
Siebenhauer, Lester
Siegel, .Julius
Silverberg, Joseph S.
Silverman, .roseph
Silverman, Moritz
Silverman, Oscar
Silverstone, Emanuel
Silverstone, Milton Solomon
Silverstone, Sholom
Simon, Charles ,Jacob
Simon, Martin Ephraim
Simon, Siegfried
Soboslay, Julius
Solomon, Abraham
Solomon, Herbert Adolph
Solomons, Lucius Lawrence, P. M.
Sommer, Max
Speier, Godel
Spiegl, Louis Martin
Spitz, Jacob
Stark, Edward Jo11eph
Steams, Henry Otis
Steinman, Adolph John
Stange, Harry

ROSTER

Stern, Henry
Stettheimer, Walter Walter
Stirewalt, Henry Walter
Stone, Benjitmin Lester, P. M
Stone, Leon Daniel
Stone, Marcus L.
Strassburger, Isaac, P. M.
Straus, Louis
Straus, Sylvan
Strauss, Max Nessel
Streeten, James Morgan
Su~11kind, Sylvan H .
Susman, Henry
Susman, Leo Henry
Swift, Dean Richmond
Tadieh, .Tohn Vincent
Thorner, Theodore
Trachman, Henry Jacques
Triest, Frank
Triest, Martin
'Ulman, Victor Richmond
Unna, Harry
Vooreanger, Abraham Wolf
Vooreanger, Leon Morris
Voorsanger, Solomon
Vooreanger, William Casper
Wallenstein, Herman Moses
Waller, Julian Lloyd
Walsh, Richard
Walter, Sanford Fredric
Wascerwitz, Morris Herman, P. M.
Wasserman, Edwin Adams, P. M.
Waterman, Louis Philip
Wedel, John Michael
Weil, Leo
W einshenk, Charles
Weinstein, Morris
Weissbein, Jacob
Weissbein, Joseph
Welisch, Walter T.
Wertheimer, Aubrey Robert
Weyl, Bernardo
Wheeler, Charles Stntson
Willard, Maurice
Winter, John Frederick

Wise, Julius
Wise, Otto Irving
Wise, Wallace AleL, P. M.
Wolf, Jacob William
Wolf, Julius Levy
Wolfe, Ira Jay

185

:Wolff, William
ZeHerbaeh, Jacob Charle!
1
Zemansky, Gideon Byron
Zemansky, Joshua Henry
Zentner, Julius
Zuckerman, Adolph
-~18

WITHDRAWN:
L achman, Adolph Joseph
EXPELLED:
Castillo, Joseph Luis

Baumann, Sigmund
Ellis, James Michael
Frankenberg, Joseph
Jacobs, Lester Henry

DIED:
Marcus, Louis Ferdinand
Pollitz, Edward
Van N oorden, Theodore
Wolf, Morris Peter

ALAMO LODGE, No.

122.

Walnut Creek, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
J oseph Edward Lawrence, Master, Cecil J. Booth, Chaplain,
W alnut Creek, Cal.
Theodore H. Hook, S en. Deacon,
E gbert Blanchard Read, Sen. W ard., Louis Irvin Stark s, Jun. Deacon,
Oscar Frederick Olson, Jun. Ward., Louis Lazard Lehmann, Marshal,
Claude Reynor Leech, Treasurer,
Winfield Scott Burpee, Steward,
John Henry Demartini, Secretary, William Arthur, Steward,
Walnut Creek, Cal.
Herbert Daley, Tyer.

Abrott, John
Anderson, Eugene Blythe
Anderson, Robert Lawrence
Andreason, Rasmussen
Baldwin, Nathan Ira
Bartola, D. John
Biggs, Walter Hicks, P. M.
Booth, Cecil James, P. l!I.
Booth, Robert Frederick

•

MEMBERS:
Brooks, Frederick Elmont
Burpee, Winfield Scott
Chaboya, Benjamin
Clark, Albert Eldon, P. M.
Close, Clarence William
Compton, Peter Wood
Cutting, Theo. Obijah
Daley, Charles E.
Daley, Herbert Hiram

ROSTER

ROSTER

188
Daley, James E.
Daley, James Marion, P. M.
Daley, Merle Leroy
Daley, Oral Isaac
Demartini, John Harry
Dewing, James Andrew
Ford, Thomas Jamea
Foster, Rollin Nelson
Gamble, Samuel
Glazier, William Elwood
Goold, Charles Gardner
Hall, Ward
Harison, Ralph
Hipple, George Washington
Hook, Chester
Hook, Cyril Randolph
Hook, James S.
Hook, Theo. Harrold, P. M.
Hook, Vincent
Hough, William Henry, P. M.
Lawrence, Frederick
Lawrence, Joseph Edward
Leech, Claud Reynor
Lehmann, Louis Lazard
McCullough, Daniel
McPherson, Robert E.
Meese, George Oliver
Meese, William Gladstone

Olson, Frederick Oscar
Ormsby, Alfred Symour
Oswell, George McCamby
Palmer, Eliphalet Charles
Palmer, Louis R.
Read, Egbert B.
Reis, William Betts, P. M.
Scholtz, Ernest
Sharp, Cordon, P. M.
Sherburne, John O.
Sherburne, L'()uis Flanders, P. M.
Silveira, Joseph L.
Simas, John
Simpson, Michael Lewis
Smith, Duncan Lewellen
Smith, Georges Jay
,Spencer, Harry Fremont, P. M.
Spencer, Raymond
Stark8, Lewis Irwin
Stow, James Monroe
Thompson, Frank
Watt, Frederick William
Westcott, George M.
Williams, Arthur
Williams, John
Witten, Charles Lincoln
Wrester, Alfred Mercer
Wrester, Edward Calvin

-74
DIED:
Harlan, Joel Alexander

SOTOYOME LODGE, No.

123.

Haaldsburg, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Joseph Hyman, Master,
George William Miller, Chaplain,
Headsburg, Cal.
William Ernest Rathke, Sen. Deac.,
Edwin Davis Thompson, Sen. Ward., Orrin Willis Engelke, Jun. Deacon,
Frank Lyman Robinson, Jun. Ward ... John Henry Gunn, Marshal,
Matthias Raabe, Treasurer,
Oscar August Frellson, Steward,
William Washington Ferguson, Sec., Adolph Blaine Engelke, Steward,
149 Hayden St., Healdsburg.
Zemira Doane Wickerson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Asa C.
Frampton, Earl Jharles
Ainsworth, William
Fredson, Charles Henry
Frellson, Oscar August
Alexander, George Cyrus
Frost, Harvey Chester, P. M.
Allenden, Arthur
Frost, Martin. Van B.
Allenden, William He~ry
Gaddini, Ernest Constantini
Andrews, George Benjamin
Gobbi, Raymond Allen
Baer, Reuben Edward
Baker, Guy Earlcourt
Goddard, Daniel Nevada
Barnes, Benj. Harrison
Goldstein, Joseph A.
Barnes, William Henry, P. M
Grabner, Ferdinand
Beeson, Edward Ives
Grant, Henry Delano
Bidwell, John
Gray, Edward Swinton, P. M
Black, Harry Edward
Gunn, Geo. Lucius
Blackburn, George
Gunn, John Henry, P. M.
Bourne, Charles Wilfred
Hall, Clarence Conway
Briggs, Hiram
Hall, Conway Allen
Brigham, George Henry, Jr.
Hall, Lieuallen J., Jr.
Broughton, William Frederick
Hall, Maitland Grant
Hall, Richard Bishop
Brown, James Alonzo
Burr, Frank
Hansen, George Theodore
Burroughs, Robert Edward
Hardy, Jonathan
Bush, Eli, P. M.
Henning, John Abraham
Butterfield, George Henry, P. M.
Hewett, Clyde Amos
Cake, Ewart Pierce
Hicks, Walter Eugene
Coffman, James Trisler
Holmes, William Frank
Coffman, Nelson Bradley
Hooten, Martin Van B., P. M.
Cooke, Frank Willis
Horton, Samuel
Huffman, Joseph Elmore
Coolidge, Homer Hurlbutt
Hyman, Edward Joseph
Cox, Clifford Laurens
Jacks, Albert Rosco
Cox, Joseph David
Cox, Nathan Henry; P. M.
Johnson, George Washington
Crocker, Harry BoRworth
Jones, Cethil
Cummings, Fred Merritt
Joy, William Henry
Dale, Harvey, P. M.
Kennedy, George Henry, P. M.
Eby, Edwin Dayton, P. M.
Koberg, Louis Carl
Edge, Elton R.
Lampson, Augustus
Etter, Wade Hampton
Lorenzini, Dominico
Evans, Clarence Dewane
Learn, Abraham Lincoln
Ferguson, Paris Jasper
Legh, Robert Perey
_Ferguson, William Wash., P. M.
Lencioni, Henry
Fitzgerald, Matthias
Lewis, Calvin MeMillin
Foote, Charles Hardy
Litchfield, Oscar J., P. :u:.
Foreman, Lorin
Long, George Washinj?ton

187

188
Luther, Arthur Wallace
Mack, Frank Fremont
Matthews, Charles Wesley, Jr.
Matthews, John Wesley
Mayo, Joseph, P. M.
Mccutchan, George Francis
Mccutchan, James B.
Ml.'Cutchan, William Hugh
McDonnell, Henry
McMinn, Joseph Andrews
Meyer, Harry Herbert
Meyer, J,ouis
Meyer, Samuel
Mikkelsen, Otto Emil
Miller, Charles Perry
Miller, George William, P. M
Miller, Joseph Hotchkiss
Moreland, William Walter
Mothorn, Fernand Clement
Mothorn, Perry Douglass
Murdock, Glen Elbert
Nay, Heber Lewis
Nickerson, Zemira Doane
Norton, Edward Molloy
Osborn, Edward Welch
Parks, Harry Burnard
P:issalacqua, Andrew D.
Patrick, James
Patterson, Clyde Ray
Patterson, J. J.
Papera, Natale
Petersen, Peter Christian
Phillips, Samuel Edward
Pitts, Frank
Provines, Lewis Bissell
Priest, William Henry
Raabe, Matthias, P. M.
Rathke, William Ernest

ROS'fER
Raymond, Charles Francis
Renitl', LeWIS Arnold
Rickman, James Louis
Robinson, Frank Lyman
Roemer, Ernest Edward
Rosenberg, Ha~ld Bush
Rosenberg, Ira Hays
Rosenberg, Melville Milton
Seawell, James Walter
Seawell, James William
Sheriffs, George
Sherrard, Henry Clayton
Silberstein, Mervyn David
Skinner, William Henry, P. M.
Soeniksen, Henry Nisson
Spillers, Luther Douglas
Stanley, Charles Lewis
Staton, A very Blythe
Stevens, A. Forrest
Stoffal, Phillip
Stone, Mack Voorhees
Swisher, James Riley
Temple, William
Thompson, Edwin Davis
Tru.itt, John Richmond
Walters, Solomon
Wallace, Glen .Allen
Warfield, George H., P. M.
Warren, Thomas Henry
Weaver, Charles Warren
Whitney, William Benjamin
Wickham, Charles
Wiltermood, William Robert
Wilson, John
Wilson, John Hodgsen, P. M.
Young, John Shaw
Zi=erman, Augusta David

-161

WITHDRAWN:
Brewster, George Washington
Minetti, Antonio Perelli

Gobbi, Barney

ROSTER

DIED:
.Silberstein, Jacob

189

TABLE MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 12+
Cherokee, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Richard Henry Jones, Sen. Deacon,
Henry Franklin Bader, Master,
John Newton Hufford, Jun. Deacon,
Oroville, Cal.
Edgar Calvin Wilson, Sen. Warden, William Sanford Hendrix, Steward,
Charles Miles Hendrix, Steward,
Elias H. Jones, Junior Warden,
Daniel Claude Morgan, Treasurer, Francis Marion Cory, Tyler.
Joseph Hurst Davis, Secretary,
R. F. D. No. 4, Oroville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
King, William H.
Bader, Charles William
Kline, Boyd Gervias
Bader, Henry Franklin, P. M.
Lee, Levi Woodbury
Banks, William Henry
Lott, Charles Fayette, P. M.
Blake, William Walter
Mack, William Edward
Blomme, John
Mellon, Wiliiam James
Bollinger, James Sim
Monroe, Ami Leroy
Caldwell, Robert Craddock
Morgan, Daniel Claude
Campbell, James Alex.
Nisbet, Andrew
Cohn, Levi
Collins, David Harris
Patterson, Jacob
•
Powers, Robert Sutherland
Cornell, Lloyd Power, P. M.
Puddy, Henry Corney
Cory, Francis Marion
Rook, Aaron Columbus
Cox, .'\.lbert Brooks
Rowe, James
Davis, Joseph Hun•+
Ryan, Andrew
Eachus, Walter Jerome
Shoope, Jacob Earle
Edmunds, John
Smith, David Walter
Fuqua, George Hale
Smith, Walter Boyston
Gillespie, William M.
Smith, Willie Emmet
Goodday, Isaac Figle
Spangler, Christie Marshall
Grant, Lincoln Ulysses
~ate, Frank Raymond
Hendrix, Charles Miles
Tegrunde, Herman
Hendrix, William Sanforrl
Vandegrift, Demas M.
Hobsmeier, Charles
Vandegrift, Samuel A.
Holub, Frank
Wells, John Elisha
Hufford, John Newton
Wells, Michael Waldyer
James, Edwin Thomas, P. M.
Whitela.w, John Frederick
Janson, Jonas
Williams, David Herbert
.Jones, Elias Harris. P. M.
Williams, William 8.
Jones, Richard Henry, P. M.
Wilson, Edgar Calvin
Jones, William Peter
Young, Ralph Chester
Johnson, Charles Henry
Jurgensen, Peter Alex.

-63

ROSTER

ROSTER

190

LA FAYETTE LODGE, No.

126.

Sebastopol. Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Bradshaw Coats, Master, James Ephriam Williamson, Chap.,
Sebastopol, Cal.
Richard Ostler Schofield, S. Deac.,
Chester Ariel Northway, Sen. Ward., William Harold Baker, Jun. Deac.,
Fred Forest Ames, Junior Warden, Frank Milton Martin, Marshal,
Thomas Garratt Wilton, Treasurer, Charles Henry King, Steward,
George Henry Corbin, Secretary,
Richard Carlysle Strider, Steward,
Sebastopol, Cal.
Charles Edgar Penny, Tyler.

Ames, Fred Forest
Anderson, John William
Armstrong, George James
Atzeroth, Henry Brugge
Baitey, William Henry
Baker, William Harold
Bameburg, Homer Lee
Barneburg, Lo•is Kingman
Barthold, Bernhardt Henry
Baxter, Samuel Emanuel
Benepe, Wesley Leander
Blanchard, David Henry
Burneson, Andrew Jackson
Burroughs, Charles, P. M.
Burroughs, David
Burroughs, John
Bradley, Roy Elmer
Chehoweth, James Merrett
Cline, John Wesley
Coats, William Bradshaw
Cody, Mathrw
Compton, Thomas Jefferson·
Corbin, George Henry
Crabtree, Albert Henry
Crawford, Jesse B.
Davis, Henry Clay
Debnam, Henry Hunt
Dodge, Fred Augustus
Dorward, Paul Andrew

MEMBERS:
Dufrane, Isidore
Dufrane, Vital
Espey, George Moultrie
f]spey, Sydney, P. M.
Fitzsimmons, Miron Ray
Fleming, George Lewis
Forsyth, George William
Finnell, Albertus Evermont, P. M.
Fyfe, Edwin Stanton
Garloff, Frederick Theodore
Goldberg, William Louis
Hall, Albert Judson
Hall, Harry Homner
Hill, Charles Nelson
Hoehn, John Henry
Howell, L. V. Hardenburg, P. M.
Hunt, Franklin Monroe
Hurlbut, Edwin T. Monroe, P M.
Jacobs, William
Kerr, William James
Kimes, David Mandia
Laton, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Laton, Edward Lee
Lehn, William
Libby, George Henry
Libby, George Wilfred, P. M.
Loser, John Benjamin
Lyding, Peter Rasmussen
Maddocks, Lewis Allen

Mallary, Charles Wesley
Markham, Henry Clay
Martin, Frank Milton, P. M.
Massie, Andrew, Sr.,
Mathers, Louis Henry
McClain, Frank Walter
McCormick, Hugh, P. M.
McGrew, Francis Harrison
McGuire, William Pleasant
McFarlane, George
Minetti, A. G. Perelli
:Monroe, Walter Wavard
Moran, Joseph Clinton, P. M.
Morris, Harry Bullen, P. M.
Morrison, Hal, P. M.
Mugge, Christian
Newcomb, Harvey Smith
Newcomb, Walter Irving
Nfohols, Henry James
Northway, Chester Ariel
Oliver, Charles Chester
Osborn, Alex.
Pa1mer, Francis Warren
Park, William Ellsworth, P. M.
Penny, Charles Edgar
Perrier, Charles Reginald
Peterson, August
Phillips, Arthur Stephen
Pierce, Joseph Greenbury
Piezzi, Victor
Proctor, David Clinton
Proctor, David Dickie
Proctor, Walter Lewis

191

Ragle, Alex.
Riekard, William Goodman, P . 111.
Robinson, Thomas W.
Rosie, James Reid
RoBB, Robert
Sanborn, George Newell
Sawyer, Joseph Franklin
Scheidecker, Albert Frederick
Shelly, John Calhoun
Sibly, Edward .Franklin
Sinclair, David Drnke, P. M.
Snow, Wilbur Worth
Spangler, Cvrus Asbury
Stillings, William
Story, James Augustus
Story, Jerome Augustus
Strider, Richar(l Carlysle
Strout, George Allen, P. M.
Sullivan, Asa Isaac
Surrhyne, Robert Henry
Swarts, Ralph Evens, P. M.
Tennant, Troxel Leroy
Tucker, Henrjr Arthur
Walker, Joseph Erskine
Watson, Frederick John
Watson, Valentine
Watson, Walter James
Webber, Henry C.
Weeks, Horace Muns:.on
Wilton, Thomas Garratt. P. M.
Williams, Clarence Henry
Williams, John Amos
Williamson, James Ephriam -124

WITHDRAWN:
Fairman, Willia m Judson
SUSPENDED
Bernard, Leroy Carl

Hall, Albert Leroy
FOR

NON-PAYME NT

OF

DUES:

Darby, Martin Ernest
Williams, William Walter
DIED:
Hambleton, Ira Gra nt

192

ROSTER

HERMANN LODGE, No.

ROSTER

127.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OF:;:'ICERS:

Jacob Weiler, Master,
Ludwig Muegele, Senior Deacon,
120 11th St.
George von Staden, Junio.r Deacon,
Hermann F. H. Schmidt, S . Ward., Richard Ludwig Lenz, Marshal,
Emil A. Neumaerkel, Jun. Ward., John Beuttler, Steward,
Robert Zenker, Treasurer,
Jacob John Koltz, Steward,
Richard Sternitzky, See1·etary,
Hermann Schoene, Tyler.
201 Charter Oak Ave.
Affolter, Joseph
Ahlers, Henry
Albert Carl
Alkalay, Leopold J.
Alpers, George
Baader, John
Bachmann, Adolph
Bahrs, George H.
Barth, William H.
Baumgartner, John
Beckh, Gust.av Carl, l'. M.
Bechtold, Friedrich Chris
Beer, Adolf
Berger, David
Beuttler, John
Blaich, Adolph
Blucher, George Henry
Blunck, Carl Ernst
Boge, Jesper A.
Boge, Phillip
Borgfeldt, William H.
Bornholdt, Henry
Breuss, Michael° A.
Brune, August E.
Bruns, Charles H.
Buescher, Wilhelm
Burgin, Gustav
Busse, Ludwig

MEMBERS:
Camp, William
Carillon, Charles A.
Clairmont, Ralph de, l'. M.
Creon, Cesar Charles A.
Creon, George A.
Denu, Frank
Dickman, Charles A.
Dierks, Theoclor
Dohemann, Hermann
Eggeling, H.?nry
Eicher, William, l'. M.
Emmrich, Ernst
Enderlein, Bruno
Etzold, Fritz
Fink, Conrad
Fisc~er, John, l'. M.
Fritsch, Emil
Gail, Andreas
Gall, Balthes G.
Gebhardt, Charles A. A.
Geilfuss, Henry, l'. M.
Geist, Max
Gercke, William H., l'. M.
Gier, Henry
Gier, TheotJor
Goecken, Louis H.
Greutert, Henry
Grosse, Alfred B.

Gunther, Gustave C.
Hackfeld, Hermann
Hage, Henry W.
Hage, Theodore Henry
Hagemann, Charles
Hagemann, Fritz, l'. M.
Hagemann, Henry F.
Hahn, Charles
Hans, Robert Gustav
Hansen, Volquart Nichola11
Hatteroth, William
Hechinger, Louis C.
Heinstadt, Peter
Heinz, Christopher
Hellberg, Henry
Hennings, Adolf
Hermann, John
Herold, Rudolph, Jr.
Herwig, Emil
Hess, Joseph
Hildebrandt, Charles Henry
Hink, Louis
Hinrichsen, Henry
Hocks, Oscar
Huslage, Hermann Arnold
Ickier, Henry
Jacobs, John
.Jonassen, Alfred
Joos, George
Kaiser, Fritz
Keil, G11stav
Kiefer, Philipp
Klaassen, Henry
Kleiber, Paul
Koch, Frank
Kohn, Carl F.
Kohs, John
Koldenstrodt, F. W.
Koster, August
Krabbenhoft, William A. H.
Kress, SebaRtian B.
Krieg, Anton
Krieg, Henry Sebastian
Krome, August
13

Krumholz, Jacob
Kutsch, George
Lang, Adolph Conrad
Leiss, Carl M.
Lemcke, Otto, P. M.
Lenz, Richard Ludwig
Lenzen, Theodor William
Leutholdt, Max
Levy, Louis
Liebe, William Adolph
Luchsinger, George H.
Mainzer, Julius M.
Marquard, Henry
.Maurer, Leo
Menke, Frederick
Mensing. John H.
Meyer, August F.
Meyer, Henry
Meyer, Martin
Moller, Martin
Muegge, Henry
Mugele, Ludwig
Muller, Louis, l'. M.
Munster, John Henry
Neuhaus, Christian H.
Neumarkel, Emil Albin
Nordholz, Frederick J.
Oppel, John V.
Osswald, Ben
Panckow, William V.
Pohl, Friedrich J.
Pompeati, Wilhelm
Pope, John
Quadt, John
Rahtjen, Philipp
Raith, Johannes C.
Reichwald, Paul
Reidt, Johannes
Remensperger, Ulrich
Rohrbach, Joseph Philipp
Rolfs, Ernst
Rust, Ferdinand
Schaefer, August
Schaefer, Fritz

193

ROSTER

194

Schernstein, Karl
Schier, Gustave
Schilling, William F.
Schlichting, Claus H.
Schlichtmann, John
Schmidt, Henry
Schmidt, Hermann F. H.
Schoene, Herman
Schou, Frank M.
Schubert; A. Richard
Schulte, Wilhelm H. G.
Schurmann, Frederick William
Schussler, Hermann D. A.
Schutt, Carl
Schwarz, Karl August
Schwesinger, Hermann Geo., P. M.
Simmen, Jolm
Sonne, Hermann Theodor
Speckter, Richard
Speidel, Adolph Friedrich
Steinbach, William
Sternitzky, Richard, P. M.
Sternitzky, Robert Reinhold
Struven, John
Struwing, Johann Hermann
Theisen, S. Joseph, P. M.
Trautner, Charles
Tretten, Emil L.

tum Suden, Otto
Uhte, Diedrich Bernardt
Vocke, Henry K.
Volkman, Carl Moritz
von der Mehden, J. Louis, Jr.
von Staden, George
Waldenmeier, August
Wannenmacher, Robe?"t
Warnke, William N. W.
Wassmann, Hermann
Weiler, Jakob, P. M.
Westphal, Peter
Wieking, Henry
Wiese, John
Wiese, John G. H.
Winter, Moritz
Woebcke, John H. C.
Woehrle, Gottlieb
Wohltmann, William
Wolf, Victor
Wolters, Frederick William, :P. M.
Wolters, George
Wucherer, William
Wurzbach, William
Zeiss, Louis
Zenker, Robert
Zerweck, Ernst
-199

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Atzeroth, Edlef
Ruediger, Julius

Weis, Arthur H.
Zinkand, William Charles
DIED:

Alber, Emil
Busse, August
Gercke, Fritz
Jordan, Ernst C. H.

Klevesahl, Ernst C. H.
Mueller, Philip
Rehn, Charles
Saling, Theodore
Schumacher, Ludwig

ROSTER

VISALIA LODGE, No.

195

128.

Visalia, Tulare County.
Stated .Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Franklin Frederick Barton, Master, Jonas Adelmas Allen, ChaplairJ,
Visalia, Cal.
Norman C. Wolff, Senior Deacon,
Fred Goode Hamilton, Senior Ward., Augustus Dodge Bequette, J. Deac.~
James Griffin, Junior Warden,
Harry Beaumont McClure, Marshal,
Lemuel Clayson Hyde, Treasurer,
Grover L. Weathers, Steward,
Frederick Samuel Gilbert, Secrotary, Frederick William Macobs, Steward,
Visalia, Cal.
Simon W caver Duckwall, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Jonas Adelmas, P. M.
Dresser, ·walter Henry
Anderson, David Oscar
Duckwall, Simon Weaver
Baker, Edgar E.
Edwards, Duncan M.
Barton, Franklin Frederick, :P. M. Ellis, William Josiah
Beal, John Gould
Elzenhauser, John
Beales, George Francis
Etzenhouser, Arthur Earl
Becker, Arthur M.
Evans, Homer Richard
Belz, Frank Arthur
l!'rankenau, Max
Belz, George Andrew
Gibson, George Edwin
Berry, Hugh Rier
Gibson, John Frank, Jr.
Branch, Kenneth Melrose
Gilbert, Frederick Samuel, :P. M.
Brooks, Albert Ellis, P. M.
Gilmer, Harvey Van Epps
Carroll, Hubert Cowley
Goldstein, Leon
Chambers, Ludlow
Graham, Edward McDonal<l
Chatten, Richard Jasper
Gray, Wheaton Andrew, :P. M
Chatten, Thomas Alex.
Green, Wilber W.
Chrisman, Ira
Griffin, James
Cochran, Orin L. V.
Grove, Millard Fillmore
Cohn, Eugene Alfred
Guggenheim, Leon
Combs, James Ennis
Gumpel, Arnold
Cook, Leslie
Hamilton, Fred G.
Cox, Edward Theo
Rausch, Charles Henry Joseph
Cranston, Floyd Cole
Hawkins, Rufus Morgan
Cross, Oscar Reeves
Hayes, Harry T_
Crowley, Arthur
Hayes, Timothy
Cutler, John
Howard, John William
Cut!er, Leonard
Humphrey, Wyatt Marion
Davis, Harry H.
Hyde, Lemnuel Clason, :P. M.
Deming, Raymond H.
Iseman, Myer E.

196

ROSTER

ROSTER

J eruealem, Henry
Johnson, John Sublitt
Jordan, Arthur Neill
Jordan, John Francie
Jordan, Ray Francie
Judd, Orion Mathias
Kathe, Carl Theodore
Kellenberg, Frank Guitlo
Kelsey, Harlem Waite
Kinkier, Charles Henry
Lamberson, Fra:pk, P. M.
Larkins, Edward Oliver
Lawless, John Byrd
Levie, Leon
Levinson, Harry
Levy, Nathan
Levy, Simon, P. M.
Lockwood, Alfred Tennyson
Lucier, Loui3
Maddox, Ben Moyers, P. M.
May, Franklin Hicks
May, Jamee Johnson
May, Loyal Alney
McClure, Harry Beaumont, P M.
McFadzean, Daniel, P. M.
Mcswain, Thomite Omar
McVeagh, Edward Erastus
Miller, Ernest Hendricks
Miller Everette LeRoy
Mitchell, Jay E.
Murray, Abram Hunter, Jr., T . M
Newman, Henry, P. M.
Oliver, David Cromwell
Orr, Alfred Randolph
Osborn, Daniel
Osborn, Jamee Orland
Overall, Daniel Griffith
Overall, Orval
Parish, Howard Goin
Parker, George Alvia, P. M.
Parker, James Pennie
Parsons, Howard. Marshfield
. Patterson, Thomas Jefferson

Pease, Edwin R.
Pendola, Beneditto
Perkins, Darius Enoch, P. M.
Poole, Charles Turner
Porter, Charles Brol\"n
Powell, Leonard B.
Prothero, Jerome
Quinn, Harry
Ralston, Elza Clark
Robertson, Archibald J.
Robertson, Jamee Logan
Rowell, Maurice H.
Rowland, David Hobart
Sawtel, Fred
Seligman, Louie
Shiffert, Irwin A.
Smith, Ernest Le Roy
Smith, George David
Smith, George Depler
Smith, :Milton Wix
Smith, Seth
Spear, .Jacob Benjamin
Steel, Frederick Daniel
Sullivan, Milton A.
Sweet, Adolph David
Thomas, Walter Franklin
Tuohy, John, P. M.
Uhl, Fred
Waddell, E<lwin Hamilton
Walker, Charles Jesse
Wallace, William B., P. M.
Ward, Frederick William
Ward, Joseph Clarence, P. M.
Waugh, Jasper Dodridge
Weathers, Grover Lee
Wells, Morgan JameR
Wells, William Reed
Weishar, Augustus
White, Carlos M.
Whitmore, Charles Abbott
Williams, Jamee Frederick
Wolff, Norman Charles

Braverman, Max

NICOLAUS LODGE, No.

-143

197

WITHDRAWN:
Adame, Charles Lincoln
DIED: .
Gannan, James Edwin
Bausch, Christian
129.

Wheatland, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, Friday :-f or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Amasa George Aakley, Master,
Stephen Douglas Hicks, Chaplain,
Wheatland, Cal.
Joseph B. Doelbey, Senior Deacon,
Henry Carrington Jasper, Sen. Ward., Alfred Gerard Griffith, Jun. Deacon,
Ottis Keys Roddan, Jun. Warden, James Polk Kesner, Marshal,
Augustus Rieckers, Treasurer,
L. Lincoln Kimerer, Steward,
John Frederick Baun, Secretary,
Plummer Enochs, Steward,
Wheatland, Cal.
Benjamin William Thomas, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Griffith, Albert Gerard
Absalom, Thomas Harris
Anderson, George Leander
Hadley, Albert Alex.
Atkisson, Albert Alphens
Haile, Henry
Hartley, Joseph Robert
Atkisson, WUliam Brice
Austin, Edward
Hedger, Joseph Mason
Hicks, Stephen Dougli.s
Baun, John Frederick, P. M.
Huffaker, Anthony
Baxter, Willard Morris
Beck, Herman Hansen
Huffaker, Harry Hays
Bennett, Lemuel Jones
Hutchinson, Frederick LaF.
Hutchinson, Perkins LaF.
Bergman, Nester W.
Bel'·an, Thomas Edward
Jasper, Henry Carrington
Blackford, Price
Jasper, William George
Kesner, James Polk, P. M.
Briggs, Alfred Ezra
Kimerer, L. Lincoln
Brewer, Lewis LeRoy
Landis, James Frederick
Brewer, Thomas Highfield
Lund, Charles Walter
Carpenter, Charles William
Manwell, Edward Tecnmse
Click, Daniel
McCullough, William Hudson
Crepe, Bertien L.
McCurry, Lewie Waters
Crepe, Roscoe
Mccurry, Samuel Sevier
Crilley, William M.
Miller, William Ernest
Dalbey, Joseph B.
Moran, John William
Durst, Jonathan Haynes
Enochs, Elisha Franklin
Morrison, Hugh J.
Enochs, Plummer
Muck, Francie Henry
Foshay, Arthur W.
Oakley, Amasa George, P. M.
Frasier, Daniel
Oakley, Charles Wilder
Glazier, Frederick
Oyster, William M.

ROSTER

ROSTER

198
Pinlus, Emil
Purcell, John
Rhinehart, William Rufus
Riechers, Augustus, P. M.
Robson, Andrew Armstead
Roddan, Ottis Reyes
Sowell, Benjamin Frauklin
Sowell, Ernest Elmer

Hicks, James Martin

Stoddard, Cyrus
Stratton, George William
Stull, William Albert, P. M.
Thomas, Benjamin W.
Thomas, Lewis Evans .
Uhler, David William
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson

-69
DIED:
Roddan, David Ferris

WOODBRIDGE LODGE, No.

131.

Woodbridge, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Oliver Simon Newman, M aster,
Frank Perrott Chaplain, Chaplain,
. W oodbridge, Cal.
Claudius C. Woodworth, S en. Deac.,
Everts Freeman Mills, Sen. Ward., Guy Adams, Junior Deacon,
Robert G. Williams, Jun. Warden, Charles Lewis Newton, Marshal,
Amos Amson McClelland, Treasurer, Henry Wilcox Sharp, Steward,
Blakely Robert Woods, Secretary, Deidrich Berhardt Doepske, Steward,
Woodbridge, Cal.
George Dunn McClelland, T yler.
MEMBERS:
Costello, John Franklin
Aberle, Frank Henry
Adams, Guy
Covell, Allen Palmer
Covell Elbert Allen, P. M.
Anderson, George William, P. M.
Arthur, Samuel Richard, P. M.
Covell, George Francis
Covell, Wright Thompson
Ashley, Frank Henry, P. M.
Beckman, Theodore Henry, P. M.
Crump, John Edward
Beckwith, Charles Marion
Culp, James Elmer
Blakely, James
Denehy, Robert Emmett
DeVries, Marion
Boyce, Amos
Brack, Jacob
Doepske, Deidrich Bernhardt
Burkett, Thomas Robeson, P. M.
Freel, Oliver Patterson
Caldwell, Jam~s Thomas
·
Geermann, Charles
Carr, Walter LeGrand
Groves, Hamilton Shotwell
Hall, Charlie Louis
• Cary, Frank Monroe
Hart, Edward Baker
Chase, Leonard Jefferson
Corell, William
Hemphill, Edward iiendr,
Cory, John Btaly, P. M.
Hemphill, George Waire1

Henderson, James Mitchell
Henderson, William Woods, P. M.
Hilliard, Samuel Emlin
Holmes, James William
Housken, Gt>orge
Housken, George Edward
Hull, James Porterfield, P. M.
Huron, William Wilson, P. M .
Jahant, Walter Victor
Jefferson, Jacob Price
Johnson, William Horton
Keen, Camden Warren, P. M.
Langford, George William, P. M.
Latta, S11.muel Eikenbarry, P. M.
McClelland, Amos Amson, P. M.
McClelland, George Dunn
McClelland, Harry Charles
Mcintosh, Thomas Baldwin
McNoble, George Francis, P . M.
Mills, Claude Ernest
Mills, E verts Freeman
Mills, Freeman Benjamin. P. M.
Myers, Benjamin Sylvest'ilr Neil
Newman, Oliver Simon
Newton, Charles Lewis, P. M.
Newton, Cyrus Brownlee
Newton, Frank Crawford
Ogden, Henry Thomas

199

PaI'ker, John Straughn
Pattee, Walter J.
Perrott, Frank, P. M.
Perrott, Fred Grieves, ·P. M.
Ralls, Frank De La
Reed, Jonathan Pierce
Rutledge, Charles Robert, P. M.
Rutledge, George
Sharp, Henry Wilcox
Shinn, John Elmer
Smith, Charles Robertson
Sovereign, Seth
Steen, Moses Duncan Alex.
Terry, David Martin
Thompson, John Henry
Towne, Burton Augustus
'.J
Tredway, Orvis Wesley Ring
Van Gelder, Morris
Vickerson, John Irving
Wakefield, Edward Harlan, P. M.
Welch, Charles
White, Willis Washington
Wilke113on, Thomas Edgar
Williams, Robert Georgia
Williams, William Henry
Woods, Albert James
Woods, Blakely Robert, P. M.
Woodwork, Claudeus Curtis
-90

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Parkenson, George David
DIED:
Roush, Chester

ROSTER

ROSTER

SINCERITY LODGE, No. 132.

YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 133·

Greenville, Plumas County.

Coulterville, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
(Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known as Yosemite No. 9!l,
October 16, 1913.)

200

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Ament, Ed. Newton
Boyden, William Price, P. M .
Bunnell, Lucius Abraham
Braden, Louis Archibald
Bressler, Charles
Chamberlain, Hugh Corson
Davie, William
Draney, William Herbert, P. M.
Droege, Roy William
Drury, Arlie Jesse
Elam, Arthur William
Gibson, Charles Lorren
Goebel, Frederick August
Gr11nt, ,A ngus Duncan
Hargrave, John Arthur
Harland, Henry Linsley
Hepler, Charles Y.
Janney, Edwin Howard
Kruger, Frank, P. M.
Langrehr, Henry Christian
Latham, Melanthon Seymour
Laufman, Robert Lee

Boyden,• Robert Augustus

McKenzie, Donald William
McLeod, Kenneth
McMillan, Alexander Dougald
McMillan, Douglas Alexander
McRorie, Thomas
Mead, Frank Leroy
Murray, John R., P. M.
Ranker, Edward Arthur
RobElrtini, Peter Anthony
Standl\rt, Frank James, P. M.
Stevenson, William Graham
Stover, Charles Franklin
Strong, Charles Lewis
Taylor, James Terrill
Treleaven, William Thomas, P. M.
Trezise, Thomas Henry, P. M
Trubody, Charles Malcolm
Urban, Frederick George L.
Wardlow, Harry Dell
Wardlow, John T.
Wolters, Gustaf Herman
Young, Robert William, P. M. -44

DIED:
Morton, William Bennett

Blum, Rudolph Antone
Conwell, Frederick H.
Floto, William Charles
Ford, Charles Christopher
Hobron, Samuel Douglas, P. M
Kennah, John P.

201

Koenig, Theo. Theron
McCarthy, Thomas Bernard
Mutton, Thomas Henry, 'P. M.
Schell, Edwin Herbert
Wagner, Charles
-11

WITHDRAWN:
*Parkington, Frederick Herbert

Tyacke, Frederick

DIED:
Wagner, Daniel

•Degrees conferred during the year.

VACAVILLE LODGE, No. 134·
Vacaville, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Herbert Franklin Fowler, Master, . Eugene Warren Stoddard, Chaplain,
Vacaville, Cal.
George McDowell Stroud, Sen. Deac.,
Frank Eugene Dickie, Sen . Warden, Laurens Harris Killingsworth, I D.,
Morris Okesly Buck, Jun. Warden, ' Rudolph Schaefer, Marshal,
John Thomas Montgomery, Treas., Millard Sharpe, Steward,
Walter H. Edwards, Secretary,
John McKnight Brazelton, Steward,
Box 144, Vacaville, Cal.
Isaac W. Reese, Tyler.

Akerly, George Parry
Allison, Josiah Everett
Allison, Orestes Herman
Andrews, Edward Cleveland
Apperson, Victor Virgil
Arnold, John Monroe, P. M.
Arnold, Geor1e Allen, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Attkisson, Oscar Brice
Bassett, Alvin Guy
Bassford, Joseph Edward
Blum, Jacob, P. M.
Brazelton, John McKnight
Brown, Homer Grant
Buck, Frank Henry

20!

ROSTER

Buck, Frank Herbert
Buck, Fred McClellan
Buck, William Henry
Buck, Morris Akerly
Buckingham, Thomas Hugh
Bugbee, Harry Taylor
Buhn, Frederick William
Chandler, Frederick Brewster
Chandler, Harry Danforth, P. M.
Chandler, Walter William
Chase, Ernst Samuel
Clark, Frank Herbert, P. M.
Crystal, Carlton Clark
Deakin, Eslie Burt
Derby, Charles Mason
Derby, Daniel Blanchard
Dickie, Frank Eugene
Dobbins, Sterling P., P. M.
Dresser, Reuben Everett
Drew, Francis Bernard
Dunn, Henry Clay
Ellison, Samuel Franklin
Engstrom, Adolph L.
Ennor, Harvey Wilford
Edwards, Walter Hatch
Fisher, Edward
Fitzgerald, James Thomas
Fotheringham, Charles Allen
Fowler, Herbert Franklin
Frahm, William Claudius
Frame, Oeorge
Gates, Robert Campbell
Gates, Thomas T_,ee
Gamble, Frank Alex.
Gamble, Stephen Everett
Goodwin, Woodbury McC., P. M.
Gray, William Smith
Hagerty, John James
Hartley, Clement Madison
Hartley, Victor Worthington, P. M
Hathaway, Harry Rivers
Haworth, Morris Wells
Henrikson, Otto
Hewitt, Trent Loge
Jenney, Warren C'.

ROSTER

Jones, Harry Nathanit:l
Jones, Robert Hugh
Killingsworth, Laurens Harris
Killingsworth, Wiley Smith, P. M.
Killingsworth, Wiley Smith, Jr.
Kowanda, Thomas
Kynoch, Edwin Lee
Lancaster, Ralph Edward
Lawrence, William Edwarcl
Lewis, John A.
Lindquist, Carl Ludwig
Losee, Albert William
Losee, Charles Henry
Losee, Elmer Lyonidas
Losee, Fred Asa
Long, George Woodson
Maas, William Mitthias
Maclay, Samuel Ralph, P. M.
Manuei, Eli William
¥11.rshall, James
Marshall, Lewis Carson
McBride, William Zeph
McCoy, Oscar Melvin
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, P M.
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, Jr.
McMillan, Edwr.rd Houston
McMillan, Robert Boone
Miller, Mel'edith Raines
Moffit, Rolla Maxwell
Montgomery, John Thomas, P. M.
Morton, John Charles
Niel, Charles
Noel, William Henry
Pardi, Caesar
Parker, William Boyd
Peabody, Ernest Augustus
Peterson, Louis Henry
Pa!mer, Humphrey Parin
Powers, George Adelbert
Price, Albert Ralpli
Richardson, Hiram Eugene
Riechers, Charles
Robinson, Chester Gates
Rust, Charles Baldwin
Samuels, George Washington

Schroeder, William Louis
Schaefer, Rudolph, P. M.
Schaefer, Walter
Sharpe, Millard
Sherman, Roger Bates
Smith, Fred Martin
Spear, John Watson
Stadtfeld, Joseph Rose
Stevenson, Andrew Vincent, l" M.
Stevenson, George Maupin
Stevenson, Charles Albert
Stitt, James Warren
Stanford, David

Stoddard, Eugene Warren
Stottlemyer, Emerol Hanford
Strong, William Lafayette
Sullivan, James William
Tate, Horace Phillip
Thurber, Edwin Robinson
Triebel, Frank Henry
Traughton, Francis Thomas
Watson, Henry Melville
Weed, Ulysses Edgar
Weldon, Clyde Allen
Wilson, Thomas Stanley
Wooden, .John Henry
-130

WITHDRAWN:
*Coudon, Harry Leslie

Plimpton, Harlow Mortimer
DIED:

Eversol, James

Wooderson, George Frederick

•Restored during the year.

VALLEY LODGE, NG. 135.
Linden, San Joaquin CoU&lty.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next pre..:eding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Alling, Mark Norman
Anderson, John, P. M.
Board, David
Bonham, Andie Lester, P. M.
Bonham, William Harvey
Brooke, Thomas J e:lferson
Buckley, William Langdon, P. M.
Case, Carlton Coolidge, P. M.
Corson, Joseph Morrison, P. M.
Creary, Frank Agnious
Crill, Howard
Davis, Edward Freeman, P. M.
Davis, Edgar Lee, P. M.

'

203

Davis, Albert Newton
Day, Thompson Blount
Day, Gordon Martin
Drace, James Albert
Dyke, Ozra David
Freeman, Walter
Frost, Haller Conventry, P. M.
Glasgow, Wood Irwin
Harrison, Charles Norval
Hopkins, George Marvin
Johnson, Adolph
Lewis, Horace Churchill
Loker, Victor Manuel

ROS'fER

204
Mahl, Godfrey
McCausland, James Audley
Meyer, Charles Herman
Owen, Henry Taylor
Pearson, Seth Allen
Peck, John Loveman, P. M.
Peters, John Henry
Petzinger, Henry Edward

ROSTER
Bernstein, Milton Melville
Bianchini, Louis
Bien, J oeeph
Biller, John
Binge, Theodore C. Daniel
Binner, Theodore
Birnhack, Benjamin
Bishop, Frank Ellert
Blaffer, Louis Albert
Bloom, Solomon
Blum, George William
Bolander, Louie Philip
Boley, Daniel
Bond, Charles Benjamin.
Booth, Frank Edmund
Borchardt, Paul
Borkheim, William Irwin
Bornstein, Robert
Bornstein, Solly
Bosch, Henry, Jr.
Bossert, Howard Clayton
Bragg, Robert, Jr.
Branderstein, Charles
Brewer, Hendrix Cleveland
Brignoli, Nicholas Peter
Brisco, Hylton Aubrey
Brown, Andrew
Bunzl, Julius
Burger, Fillmore
Burns, Harry Denver
Bush, Eugene Harold
Caley, James Henry Corteen
Cameron, John William
Camp, Mervyn Louie
Caples, John Wallace
Caro, Alex. Hyman
Caro, Jacob
Carrick, James Ross, P. M.
Casner, Mark
Casanova, William
Casselmann, Julius Molter
Castle, Frederick Lawrence
Cavanaugh, James Bernaril
Cerf, Arthur
Chamberlin, Gordon Stewart

Pope, Sidney Parnell
Rich, Arthur Henry
Ryburn, John Clarke
Sheets, William Henry
Smith, Arthur
Smith, Frank Joseph
Thomae, Charles Wayne, P. M.
-41

DIED:
Perryman, Charles

PACIFIC LODGE. No. J36.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFIC;ElRS:
Charles Albert Rahing, Chaplain,
Ernest Leonard West, Master,
Frank Muller, Senior Deacon,
101 Post St.
Charles Benjamin Bond, Jun. Deac.,
Hugo Hertz, Senior ·warden,
Thomas Anderson, !1'nior Warden, Herbert G. W. Meyerfeld, Marshal,
Frederick Ludwig Hansen, Treas., Wilhelm Waldeyer, Steward,
George Louis Darling, Secretary,
Paul Nathan, Steward,
226 Sutter St.
James Whitten, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Asman, George Edwin
Adams, Manson Reid
Austin, George Henry
Adelstein, Samuel
Babbitt, John Henry
Amenda, John Emil
Andersen, Niels
Baccus, Louis Richard
Anderson, James Wright, P. M.
Baird, Herbert Clay
Ballard, Francis Marion
Anderson, John
Anderson, Thomas
Baloun, Joseph Pavlik
Bankey, Charles
Anderson, Wellington Joshua
Banner, Marcus
Andresen, Niels Julius
Andre1"1 Edwin Harold
Baskerville, Edwin
Andrews, Harry Alta
Baugh, Colonel Adams
Beck, Frederick Charles
Arnke, Henry Konrad
Arnold, Louis Edgar.
Beek, William Arthur
Beckley, Lawrence Victor .
Arnold, Thomas Cook
Berg, Alfred
Aechheim, Israel Julius, P. M.
Asher, Maurice
Berliner, Charles Adolph

•

Church, David Orion
Cinnamond, Lennox
Clark, George Waverley
Clark, Howard Ellsworth
Clark, James William
Cliff, John Clifton
Clifford, James Benjamin
Cline, Jobe
Coffin, Lincoln Alverton
Cohen, Melville
Cohen, Philip
Cohen, Simon
Cohen, Joshua David
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Louis Meyer
Compton, Louie Francis
Congdon, Joseph Hopkins, Jr.
Cook, Stonewall Jackson
Cooksey, Albert
Cope, James Henry
Cormack, William
Cornehl, Henry
Craig, David Calder
Craig, Frank
Craig, Lee Darneal
Crandall, Charles Ellis
Crocker, Arthur JamEu•
Crocker, Nathan, P. M.
Crouse, John Miles
Crowe, J oeeph
Crozier, Herbert William
Crum, George Washington
Currell, John William
Currie, Robert
Daly, Charles Elmer
Damner, Samuel
D'Ancona, Alexander Dawson
Dann, Frank Rudolph
Darling, Charles Sherman
Darling, George Louis, P. M.
Davidson, Alexander Hunter
Davidson, George
Davie, Arthur Eugene
Dean, Wilber Huntington
Delfs, Marcus Alexander

205

206

ROSTER

Delpier, Leonard
Dettner, Ernest Henry
Dettner, George William
Dettner, Walter Theodore
Dickinson, Robert Francis
Dillon, William A.
Dixon, Frank Albert
Doble, Robert McFarland, P. M.
· Dobrin, Samuel Leo
Dodge, Zenas Upham
Donald, William
Dougherty, Hugh
Dove, Louis
Dragomanovich, Spiro S. G.
Dundas, Moubray Robert, P. M.
Dunn, Berry Elder
Dutton, Winslow Dodge
Eaton, William Roberts
Edlin, Juda
Edwards, Henry
Edwards, Meyer Aaron
Edwards, William Harvey, P. M.
Ehrlich, Harry Garfield
Elkus. Eu11:ene Samuel, P. M.
Ellis. Jl'raft\{. Tait
Eltingham, Robert Lynnwood
Epsteen, Henry
Epstein, Julius Max
Ericsson, William Leonard
Eslick, William
Everding, James Campbell
Everson, Matthias Andrew
Fairfield, Orlando Weston
Falk, Emile Samt>on
Fallon, Alfred
Fanta, William
Fee, William Marcu11
Ferguson, John
Ficke, Charles Henry
Findlay, Alexander
Fischman, Philip
Fleisig, George Lawrence
Fleisig, Harry
Fleisig, Frank
Fleming, John William

Forrest, William
Fraiberger, Max
Frankel, George
Franklin, Milton
Fraser, Daniel Gray
Fraser, Edwin Joseph
Frazier, Frank Edward
Freudenberg, Gustav Adolph
Fross, Isaac
Furman, Henry Matthew
Galer, John Martin
Garcia, Frank Francisco
Garrett, James Hyland
Garrigan, John
Gauld, James Green
Getz, Solomon, P. M.
Gewirtz, Morris
Gilbert, John Henry
Gilmour, James
Glaser, Isador
Glass, Samuel
Glucksman, Max E.
Goetze, Frederick William
Gold, Louis Mark
Goldbaum, David
Goldberg, Louis Raphael
Goldsmith, Joseph Leconte
Goldstein, Simon
Good, Robert Williamson, P. M.
Goodman, Abraham
Gordon, Benjamin Edwin
Gordon, George
Gordon, Philip
Gough, William George
Grady, James
Graham, Frank Gordon
Grant, William
Graves, Jefferson James
Graves, Walker Coleman, Jr.
Graves, Walker Coleman, P. M.
Gray, Henry
Gray, Walter Scott, P. M.
Green, George Sedwick
Green, Simon
Greenberg, Frank Lui

ROSTER
Gruhn, Victor Jacob
Grunig, Louis Herman
Gunzburger, Benjamin Mitchell
Gunzburger, Emil
Gutman, David Soloman
Hagedon, Henry Howar<l
Hakes, Clinton Devillo
Hale, James William
Ham, Charles Herbert
Hamilton, James Thomas, P. M.
Hamilton, Walter William
Hancock, Robert John
Hansen, Albert Louis
Hansen, Frederick Ludwig, P. M.
Hansen, Frederick Theodore
Hansen, George Otto
Hansen, Herman Peter
Hanson, John
Harms, Herbert William
Harris, Albert Edward
Harris, Benjamin
Harris, Charles Sigmund
Harris, Clarence Edgar
Harris, Isaiah
Harris, Louis Lehman
Harris, Simon
Hartmanshenn, Edward John
Harvey, Sidney Wilberforce
Hathaway, Harrv Lee
Hauck, Harry Ernest
Hawton, Frank Lait
Healey, Lauren Everett
Hechheimer, Leopold
Heins, Herman
Heller, Louis Cbarle11
Hemphill, David Abercombie
Hendry, Andrew Murray
Hertz, Hugo
Hess, Cyril
Hillebrandt, Fabian Henry
Hills, Reuben Walmarth
Hilp, Henry, P. M.
Hinz, August Julius Henry
Hirsch, Henry Samuel
Hobson, Clark

207

Hobson, John Bogard
Hoegemann, Edwaru Henry
Hoff, Joseph
Hoffman, Abraham
Holdsworth, Charles Henry Ottway
Hollub, Samuel Simon
Hollzer, Harry Aaron
Hollzer, William
Howard, Frank Harvey
Hoxie, Harvey Hamlin
Rueter, Ernest Claus
Humphrey, George
Hunter, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Hurd, John Byron
Hyman, Henry
Irvine, Alexander
Irvine, Nathaniel
Is~cs, Edward Samuel, P. M.
Isaacs, Frank
Isaacs, Michael Henry
Jackson, Charles Edward, P. M.
Jacobs, Oscar
Jacobs, Samuel Sydney
Jacobson, Charles
Johnson, Alfred
Johnson, Francis Fenelrin
Johnson, George Henry
Johnson, Henry
Johnstone, Robert Murray
Jones, Alfred
Jones, Frank Able
.Tones, John Thomas
Jones, Martin, P. M.
.Toost, Fabian Sebastian
Juhl, Jesse Peter
Kahman, Richard August
Katz, Manda}
Kaplan, Bernard Michael
Keller, Michael Seligman
Kelley, Michael John
Kellogg, Harold Adelbert
Kelly, Robert Edward
Kennedy, Albert Warren
Kennedy, Thomas
Kent, Thaddeus Benning

208

ROSTER
ROSTER

Kephart, Horace Wiesel
Kern, Henry
Kerr, Earl
Kincaid, Isaac Philamson, P. M.
Kissel, Isidor
Klein, Charles
Kleinhaupt, Moses
Kluver, Henry
Knighton, David William
Knudsen, Knud Johan
Knudsen, Philip Julius
Knudson, Ingelbright
Kock, Claude Roy
Kock, William Lincoln
Kramer, Maurice S.
Kriedel, Abraham
Kutner, Leon Alfred
Lace, Thomas Joshua
Lachman, Edward
Lachman, Gustave
Lange, Edmund William Richard
Larsen, Lars Christian
Lasky, Michael Charles
Lemaitre, Jules
Lenchner, Henry
Lengfeld, Abraham Lewis
Leonard, Edward Francis, P. M.
Lerond, Theodore
Leudauer, Gustave Henry
Levin, Louis
Levin, Melville Arnold
rJevy, Barnard
Levy, Louis
TJevy, Lucien
Levy, Samuel Wolf
Levy, William Herman
Lewis, Edward Hart
Lez~nsky, George
Lincoln, Elijah Whiting
Lincoln, Robert Lawrence
Lipman, Abraham
Lipman, Joseph Carroll
Lippitt, Philip
Lippman, George
Livingston, Andrew William

Lochbaum, August Hermann
Lockwood, Thomas
Loehner, Edward
Loeffler, Charles
Lofgren, Charles
Looman, John
Loring, George Arthur
Ludwig, John
Luhn, Morton John
Lynch, Chester Thompson
Lynden, James Henry
Lynden, John Ross
Macartney, Henry Cuthbert
MacKinnon, Thomas Alexander
Macowsky, Isaac
Macowsky, Jacob
Madden, Robert Willis, P. M.
Madison, James
Madsen, Mads Jorgen
Maguire, Thomas Frank
Malfanti, Joseph, Jr,
Mann, Seth
Manner, Charles Vogt
Marcum, Robert Francis
Maris, William
Marliave, Edward Cornelle
Marshall, Eugene Lee
Martin, James Coleman
Mason, Arthur
Mattson, George Oscar
Mayle, George Dennis
McClure, William
McCray, Franklin Philanner
McDougall, Charles Campbell
McGregor, Archibald· Henderson
McKay, John Henry
McKillican, Donald Robert
McLaren, John
McLea, Arthur
McLean, Alexander Davin
McLean, Malcolm
McLeod, Daniel
McLeo<l, John Alexander
McNealy, Mark
Mehrken, Peter John

Melin, Charles Gustoif
Nathan, Paul
Mellui11h, Herbert Stanisland
Nelsen, Jacob Loining
Melrose, Kenneth
Nelson, Chester Lawrence
Mendelson, Leon Aaron
Nevin, John Henry
Mendelson, Morris Aaron
Newbauer, Herman Wolf
Mentz, John Henry
Newman, Ignatius
Mertens, Max
Newman, Lester
Meyer, Alfred
Nicol, Alexander
Meyer, Martin Solomon·
Nield, John Detlifson
Meyer, Milton
Nodder, William John
Meyerfeld, Herbert George Wash. Obermeyer, Tons Frederick A.
Michaels, Solomon
Odgers, William Henry
Milcovich, Martin Louis
Olinsky, Nathan
Miller, Charles August
Ormsby, George Oliver
Miller, Jesse
Pague, Frank Culver
Miller, John Fred
Palmer, Harry
Miller, John Rudolph
Palmer, John Alexander
Miller,· Samuel
Parle, Michael Charles
Miller, Walter
Parsons, Charles Bird
Mohr, Henry
Peiser, Solomon (1)
Monasch, David
Peiser, Solomon (2)
Monroe, Charles Adams
Penhallow DeBlois Pearce
Moore, Thomas
Penlington, Thomas, P. M.
Morehouse, Chris Columbus
Perine, George Mairs, P. G. M.
Morgan, Edwin Henderson
Petersen, Niels Andrew
Morgan, William
Peterson, Charles Edward
Morris, Edward Hart
Peterson, John Cigord
Morris, Herman
Peterson, Julius Caesar
MorritJ, James
Phillips, Louis Albert
Morrow, Almond Raleigh·, P. M.
Pidwell, Cyril Trevoseo
Moss, Adolphus Frank
Plato, George Jacob
M'o wbray, Robert Henry
Plato, Louis
Mueller, Albert Rudolph
Pomin, George Joachin
:Mueller, Frank
Porter, Robert Daniel
Muench, Albert
Posner, Alva Max
Muirhead, Thomas
Posner, Max
Mulford, Edwin Stanton
Pratt, Bertram Morgan
Mullen, Edwin Thomas
Price, Ephraim William
Miiller, Otto
Prince, Albert Edward
Mundt, Francis Augustus
Qualman, Frederick Henry
Munroe, Thomas William
Quinlin, William Giles
Murray, Robert Henderson
Rabjohn, Thomas Henry
Nansen, Peter Nielsen
Rabling, Charles Albert
Nash, William Joseph
Rae, William
14

209

210

ROSTER
ROSTER

Raymond, George Henry
· Rea, Louis Edward
Reeves, Sydney Richard
Reichardt, Otto Henry
Reid, John
Reis, Harry William
Reiss, Lucien
Reiss, Max Bernhard
Rhine, Samuel
Rhodes, Charles Durell
Rich, Arthur Milton
Richards, Charles West
Rickey, George Willis
Robbins, Frederick Averill
Roberts, Augustus Henry
Roberts, Thomas
Romain, Solomon
Rosenblatt, Arthur Stern
Rosenblatt, Irving Stern
Rosenthal, Maurice
Ross, Andrew
Ross, David Adam
Roth, Arthur
Roth, Herman
Russell, Frederick Clarendon
Rylander, George William
Sachs, Edgar David
Salomon, Max
Salomon, Melville Newman
Samuels, Jacob
Sargent, William
Scally, John Henry
Schafer, Herman
Schauzer, Philip Joseph
Scheeline, Edwin
Schlesinger, Charles
Schmit, Henry
Schneider, Joseph
Schnier, Benjamin
Schoenfeld, Alexander
Schofield, Miles Edward
Schutte, John Henry
Schwartz, Adolph
Schwartz, Morris
Schwartze, Karl Gustav

Schwerin, Edward
Schwormstede, Diedrick Wilhelm
Searey, John Joseph
Selig, Arthur Edwin
Seller, Sunford Elkan
Sernborg, Nils Hilding
Shaw, Henry
Shaw, Lionel Solomon
Siegfried, Alfred Henry
Simon, Bert
Simon, Jacob
Simpson, Frederick Ernest R.
Slack, Edgar Simpson
Smith, Louis John
Smith, William Isaac
Solley, Albert Adam
Solomon, Sigmund
l:lpeier, Bernard
Speier, Henry
Spencer, James Marshall
Speyer, Walter Morris
Spier, Edward Ellis
Spiro, Michael
Spiro, Michael Elliott
Springer, Elias
Springer, Joseph
Sproston, Frank
Stalder, John Rudolph
Stackpole, Frank Harvey
Stanton, Andrew Palmer
Steinfield, Max
Stevttnson, Thomas George
Stich, Benjamin Mitchell
Stidger, Oliver Perry
Stivers, Arthur Gus
Strauss, Michael
Sundelius, Severus
Sykes, Thomas Rutledge
Taussig, Rudolph Julius
Terry, Joseph Tripp
Thayer, Charles Clayborn
Thomas, Thomas Henry
Thompson, Clarence Evan P
Thompson, Edward Mealing
Thompson, George Forbes

Thompson, Henry
Tonn, Adolph
Toplitz, Robert Louis
'l'rask, Jesse Wall
Trivett, Theodore
Troppmann, Charles Martin .
'l'uckey, Bertram
Tuckey, Harry William
Turnbull, Frank Samuel
Turner, Waldro Egerton
Turpin, Andrew Walker, P. M.
•rurpin, Frederick Light
Ulfelder, William Henry
Urquhart, John Ferguson
Vagts, John David
Van Aredale, John Rutherford
Van Dy ke, Samuel Russell
Vogt, Alfred Herman
Von Werthron, Joseph
Waldeyer, Wilhelm
Wallace, John William
Walkington, John Henry
Wankowski, William
Warnock, William Henry
Wasserman, David E.
Waugenheim, Henry
Waugh, Samuel James

211

Wechter, Abraham
Weil, Alexander William
Weil, Moise
Weisel, Charles
Weisel, George Gustav Henry
Weisel, Oliver Richard
Weiss, Philip
W eisskopf, Samuel
Wendt, Oscar William
Wertsch, Herman, P. M.
West, Ernest Leonard
Weyl, Bertin Alfred
Whitten, James
Wilhelmy, Max
Williams, Hugh Perry
Williams, John W.
Williams, William Stich
Wilson, Frederick Green
Wo~rner, .Frederick Willi&111
Wolf, Emanuel Myron
Wolft', Harry Keller
Wood, Benjamin Russell
Wood, George
Wood, Louis
7.emansky, Samuel, P. M. ·
Zeuner, Edward Henry

-623

WITHDRAWN:
Elzas, Emanuel

Speier, Leon

SUSPENDED FOR
Cousins, H erbert William
Gardiner, Robert McKay
Hall, George Welden

NON-PAYMENT

OF

DUES:

Johnson, George Oliver
Leighton, E velon Ernscliffe
Sharp, William John
Stern, Moses Milo
DIED:

Bell, Dickson Gabriel
Crowley, Timothy Jay
Curry, John
Davis, George Eugene
E arle, Henry Halford

•Eichenkolf, Robert
Finnegan, Matthew
Hall, James J oseph
Holmes, Alfred Edward
Lutz, William E dward

ROSl'ER
21z

ROSTER

Rippey, James Washington
Makins, James Nicholas
Schoenberg, Henry
"Mayer, Charles
Sheideman, Bahr
••Markham, Monroe
Luttle, John
Pippe, Robert Norman
Watterson, George Thompson
•Degrees conferred during the year.
••Atnllated during the year.

CROCKETT LODGE, No. 139.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Wednesday in each Month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

Hugh John Lloyd, Master,
James Wiseman Davies, Sen. Deacon,
727 Baker St.
Arthur Henry Canaris, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur Brand, Senior Warden, '
Percival Guy Jo?ns, Marshal,
1
Walter Edward Sammis, ! . Ward., Joseph H . Peniungton, Steward,
William Marcus Glindemann, Treas., George William Quinn, Steward,
Richard Hassard McPhetson, Sec'ty., Thomas Rowlands, Ty~er.
134 16th Ave.
MEMBERS:
Bechtel, George William
Abernethy, William Eliot
Becker, Adolph Cornelius
Adamsen, David
Beer, Thomas Walter
Adolphson, Gustav Adolph
Behrmann, Joseph
Alderson, John Atkinson
Benelect, Emil
Alpers, Claus
Berendes, Carl Joseph
Alpers, John
Berg, Adolph
Alsina, Arthur
Bertelson, Peder Beier
Andersen, Martin
Bivins, Walter Thomas
Anderson, Charles Oscar
Blackledge, Charles Duffey
Atthowe, William Charles
Blaine, Robert James
An:findsen, Bernhart
. Bloden, Paul Ralph
Baetje, John Peter
Blumenthal, Albert
Bailey, Lewis Charles
Boesen, Hans Christian Broderson
Bannick, Albert John
Borek, Leopold Julius
Bartlett, Edward Phelp!\
Brady, Thomas Washington
Barton, Robert George
Brand,
Arthur
Bates, Howard' Russell
Brandemann, Carsten Otto
Beach, Harry
Brasch, Samuel Lewis
Beaston, Jeremiah Brannan

Dippel, Henry
Hrasting, Constantine Waldemar
Downey, Thomas Harold
Braun, George
Dudley, Clark DeWitt
Broman, Albert
Dudley, Harry Edward
Bruce, William
Brugge, Edward Gustav
Dunn, James Henry
Brunswig, Jae. Oscar Ludwig, P. M. Edelmann, Leonhardt Charles
Ethier, Louis Napoleon
Bruse, Bernhard Frederick
Evans, David John
Bruse, Frederick
Faber, Johan Frederick
Bruse, Harry Gerhard
Burkhardt, Edward George Albinos Fee, Harry Ring
Feldermann, John Diedrich
Burnett, Richard James
Felker, Luther
Burnham, George Ellsworth
Fick, Nicholas
Butt, Peter William
Fisher, Charles Morris
Butterworth, Albert Aloyius
Fischer, Jacob
Buttner, Frederick Harrold
Flathmann, Claus
Cameron, Howard McDougall
Flathmann, John Henry Martin
Canaris, Arthur Henry
Flathmann, William Claus
Cantlon, Philip Edward
:E luegel, Emil Frederick Christia•
Carroll, Charles Carrollton
Frahm, George Edwin
Castagna, Frank
Francis, Alfred Ernest
Castle, James Blair
funk, Arthur Henry
Cattermole, Charles Henry
Frankenberg, Gilbert Michael
Cattermole, John Luder Wilhelm
Frankenberg, Milton Julius·
Cavill, Sydney St. Lawrence
Friedrichs, Claus Detlef Hinrich
Cellatiull, Charles, P. M.
Frisken, James
Cellarius, Frederick August
Furey, Walls McClure
Christ, William John
Geauque, George Wash., P. M.
Christiansen, Jacob
Gerdau, Walter Julius
Ciprico, Edmund Samuel, P. M.
Gibson, William Roland
Clemenl!I, George
Glahn, Bother
Clute, Alva Baker
Glindemann, William Markus
Clymer, William 'l'homas
Goddard, Joseph
Connelly, James Anthony
Goldsmith. Albert Simon
Conroy, Geo;ge Stephen
Grant, John
Corkill, Joseph Albert
Gray, John
Court, John Pearce, P. M.
Grieb, Henry Tobias
Cox, RichaTd
Gries, Frederick August
Crawford, George Dod.tidge
Grupe, Henry Gilmore
Cre88e, Frank Hazen
Gurr, David
Daepfner, Richard Frederick
Davies, James Wiseman
Gutte, Henry William
Davis, Frank Valentini!
Haber, Charles Atlthon)
Hagerup, Charle!! S. C. A.
Debus, Ernest
Dennis, Robert Walter
Hanni, Ernest
Dietz, Frank Ed'Win
Hanselman, Andrew

213

214

ROSTEB

Hansen, Claus Christian
Hansen, Felix Amandus Dunker
Hansmann, Frederick
Hanson, Per Alfred
Harder, Peter
Harder, Walter Gustave
Harrison, Frank Cassius
Hart, George Edward
Hasshagen, Carl Theo.
Haub, Louis
Hayes, Henry Lawrence
Heins. Adolph Friederich
Heise, John Diedrich
Hinner, Paul
Hoadley, Milo
Hoeppner, Henry Richard
Ho:fl.ich, Max
Hofmann, Isaac L.
Hohmann, August Henry
Holloway, Charles Marion
Holmes, Joseph Earl
Holton, Charles Roscoe
Horstmeyer, Frederick
Huber, Adolph
Huber, Herman
Hughes, David
Hughes, John Hugh
Hughes, Richard John
Humbert, William Edwarcl
Hunt, Charles William
Hunt, Richard Hosford
Ingram, Robert
Jackson, Charles
Jacobsen, Halvor Julius Thorvald
Jessen, Niels
Johns, Henry William
Johns, Percival Guy
Johnson, Axel Fridolf
Johnson, FYederick
Johnston, John Cairns
Jones, Edward N.
Jungblut, Otto August
Kahn, William, P. M.
Keck, Freclerick Charles
Kirkwood, Alexander Macfarlane

Kleinhaus, Louis
Knerr, Claire Frank
Knox, Arthur Wallace
Knust, Henry
Koeberer, Theophilus Carl
Koenemann, John
.Kummerlander, Fred 'k August
Laughton, James
Leary, Thomas Cox
Lehrke, Albert Wendell
Lehrke, Gustav Frederick
Leighton, Frederick William
Lester, Henry Charles
Lewis, John Walter
Lippert, Leonard B.
Lippold, Edward
Lizee, Napoleon
Lloyd, Hugh Joh~
Lowe, John Hall
Lowe, William George
Lutz, William Henry
Maass, Henry William, P. M.
MacKillop, Archibald
Mann, Gustav
McArron, Chas. William Drummond
McBirney, Hugh, P. M.
Mccorkell, James Alexander
McCluskey, John
Mccreadie, Abraham Peter
McFarlan, Frederick Knight Perry
McLaren, William Merville
McNeill, William Webster
McPherson, Richard Hassard
Mehrtens, Richard
Meinhard, Theo. Henry Jacob Louis
Meisel, Herman Joseph
Mengel, Otto Henry
Mergen, Mathew Bernard
Metzler, Hermann
Meyer, Julius
Meyers, Robert Charles, P. M.
Miller, Frederick Hermann Carl
Mohr, Ernest August
Moore, George Alexander
Moulton, George Henry, P. M.

BOSTER
Mugleston, Albert
Muller, Heinrich
Muller, Peter Henry
Mullins, Fred James
Murray, Duncan Stuart
Nachbar, Frederick William
Newell, James Thomas
Newhotf, Harry, P. M.
Nichols, Thomas Henry
Norby, John Anskarins
Nordman, Harry
Nordman, BGrthold
North, John Gunder
0 'Brien, William Thomas
Offerman, Claus Henry
Olsen, Lars Emil
Olsen, Olaf
Palmer, Albert
Palmer, Edward
Pankow, Hermann
Park, Earl Gentry
Parker, Thomas Beede
Patridge, Clifton Clark
Patterson, John Charles
Paulsen, Oscar Francis
Paulsen, Reinhold Johan
Peach, Charles Frederick
Peach, Theodore Frederick Charles
Pein, John Henry
Pennington, Joseph H.
Perle, Charles William Frederick
Perle, Johan Friedrich
Petersen, Christian Herman Fred 'k
Petersen, Hans Peter
Petersen, Jens Peter
Peterson, Charles
Peterson, Edward Peter
Peterson, Gustave
Peterson, Henry Clarence
Peyser, Harry Michael
Plagemann, Frederick Peter
Pockwitz, Leopold
Pramme, Henry, Jr.
Preddey, Sydney Lawson
Price, Evan John

215

Prior, Gustave Thomas
Preston, Walton
Quinn, George William
Rathjens, Peter Ferdinand
Raymond, Earl Frederick
Read, George
Rehmann, Charles William
Reid, James Bissic
Renner, Jean
Richardson, Nicholas Joseph
Riechers, John Henry
Riemer, Herbert Rudolf
Riemer, }ludolph Wilhelm Herman
Righetti, Henry A.
Rithmoeller, Henry
Roberts, Joshua Benjamin, P. M.
Robinson, Henry Goland
'i
Robinson, Oscar Maynard
''
.. ii
Roeder, William Frederick
Roesch, Louis
Ross, Harry Bellsland
Ross, Roy George
Rowlands, Thomas, P. M.
Rueben, John Bernard
Rush, William Henry
RuBBell, Samuel Gray
Sachau, August Henry Theodore
Salter, Frederick Whitcomb
Sammis, Harold De Witt
Sammis, Walter Edward
Schlesinger, Charles
Schloen, William John
Schmid, John
Schmidt, Hermann Christian
Schmidt, John Hinrich
Schmidt, Louie
Schneider, Alfred Bernhard
Schneider, William
Schomer, George
Schomer, George Henry
Schomer, B'enry
Schottler, Hermann
Schroder, Herbert Detfuf
Schulz, George Edward Theodore
Schwab, Henry Frederick

216

ROSTER

Schwarz, Gustav
Seebach, Henry Jacob
Segesser, John Uhrich
Seiller, Laurent Michel
Shaw, William Hermann
Sheffer, Clarence Edmund
Shepherd, Ray Clifton
Simon, Philip
Soomann, Johan Joachim Theodore
Spencer, Gardner Alex. Brody
Spengemann, Charles Henry
Speyer, Henry Manfred
Stafford, Albert Francis
Stager, William Ernest
Stange, John Ernest William
Stanle, Frederick Henry
Stanton, Lewis Edgar
Stanley, Charles
Stevens, Bernard Archibald
Stein, William Frederick
Stephens, Luther Cox
Sterling, Sidney
Stirnus, . Herman Otto
Strycker, Charles
Strauch, Paul
StuBBy, Henry David
Summer, Sydney Riser
Sundman, Otto Imanuel
Suttman, Frederick Parker
Swanson, John Paulin
Taaffe, Christian Frederick B.
Teigeler, Conrad, P. M.
Ten Winkel, Frank William
Thierbach, Charles Frederick
Thomae, Bertrand McNulty
Thomae, Robert Humphrey•
Thompson, Robert John
Thornley, William Henry
Tilley, Charles Jacob

ROSTER

Tilsner, Heinrich Engelbert
Tripp, Charles Melvin
Trombley, Lloyd Agassiz
Twomey, James
Ungermann, Gustav John C.
Vock, Simon
Vogel, Philip August Fred'k
Volkmann,. Alexander William
Vollheim, Herman
Vollstadt, Frederick
Von·der, Lieth Harold Otto
Voss, Harry David
Waldron, Jerome Bonaparte
Walsh, Harry Francis
Wambach, George
Ward, James William
Watts, Herbert Charles
Weatherford, George
Webber, Charles
Weber, Richard Franklin
W eiBB, Frank John
WeiBB, Robert Nathaniel
White, Edward Harris
Wieneke, Robert
Wilcox, Alfred Ernest
Wilkerson, Erastus Nelson
Williams, John Prychard
Williams, William Hammond
Wolf, Reuben Augustus
Wolters, John Bernard
Wood, Albert Charles
Woodrow, Oscar Finley
Wre!len, Henry
Young, Royal Burr
Zaun, Henry, Jr.
Zeiss, Otto John
Zimmermann, Herman
Zimmermann, Louis Michael
Zoerb, Anton

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUJ<JS:
Blacklock, Douglas Robert
Morris, George Washington
Beaman, George Walter

Anderson, Aren
Barthold, Albert Theodore
Bechtel, George William
Chambers, George William
Dallamore, George Charles

DIED:
McLaughlin, Armour
Murken, Albert Henry
Pein, George H einrich
Pockwitz, Adolph Augustus
Rackerby, John James

CURTIS LODGE, No.

140.

Cloverdale, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, First Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Loring Sedgley, Master,
Robert William Weston, S en. Deacon,
Cloverdale, Cal.
John Scott Boyd, Junior Deacon,
William Beatty Caldwell, S. Ward., Charles Emile H umbert, Marshal,
Frank Bond, Junior Warden,
Gotlob Hagmeyer, Steward,
Simon Pinschower, Treasurtr,
Frederick Pope Conner, Steward,
Ernest Briceno Thompson, Sec'ty., John Wilcox Caldwell, Tyler.
Cloverdale, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Goetzelman, John, P. M.
Allman, Joseph Peter
Green, Robert F.
Baer, George Baker, P. M.
Guldager, George Madison
Bond, Frank
Hagmayer, Gotloli
Brown, George M.
Harria, Charles William
Brush, Fred Walker
Hensley, Joseph Clinton
Caldwell, John Wilcox
Hollopeter, Elmer E.
Caldwell, William Beatty
Hood, George
Campbell, Alexander William
Hurlbert, Robert H.
Cauch, FrankRobert
Humbert, Charles Emile, P. M.
Coffey, Clayton T.
Kleiser, George W.
Cooley, Edward Audrew, P. M.
Kleiser, Joseph Albert
Coe, George William
Conner, Frederick Pope, P. M.
Kleiser, James Henry
Kucich, George
Dixon, Eugene Flutcher
Doty, William Edward
Martens, Carl Hermann A.
Field, John
Marinkovich, Antone
Moore, Harley LaVerne
Gale, Albert Orlando

-385

WITHDRAWN:
Gardiner, Arthur McKenzie

211

Jones, Humphrey Llewelyn

•

ROSTER

ROSTER

218
Moore, Lawrence F.
Newland, Harry David
Perazzo, Joseph
Perazzo, Victor
Pinschower, Simon
Reed, Jeremiah, P. M.
Robb, James
Sedgley, Charles Loring, P. M.
Shelford, Peter L .

'l'hompson, Ernest B., P. M.
Topjian, Levon Stephen
Trim, Charles F.
Ward, James Abram
Warren, George F.
Weston, George, P. M.
Williams, Oliver Crayton
Wilson, Thomas Beggs
Y ordi, Frank Arthur

Kimmer, Carl
Leathers, John Abner
Leathers, Robert Scott H., P. M.
McCann, Frederick Albert
McClintock, James H.
McClintock, William Wirt
McGarth, Carroll S.
-52

219

McGrath, U. Webster, P. M.
McLane, William ·
Peart, Barkley Gilbert, P. M.
Snowball, Henry Havelock
Tabler, Lloyd Nelson
Wraith, William Harry

-27

WITHDRAWN:
Peart, Horner Lester

WITHDRAWN:
Stratton, Vernon Julian

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Fitch, Edward Lowell

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hall, John Henry
EXPELLED:
Carlile, Frank Ford

FRANKLIN LODGE, No. 143·
Courtland, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday o! or next preceding Full Moon.

DIED:
Levicy, Sterling Clark

OFFICERS:

GRAFTON LODGE, No. 141.

Louis Helmer Fallmann, Master,
Charles L. P. Gardiner, Senior Deac.,
Courtland, Cal.
Neil Campbell McQueen, Jun. Deac.,
Beckman Boyd Green, Sen. Warden, Armestead Runyon, Marshal,
Abner Coombs Phillips, Jun. Ward., Frank Leland Baxter, Steward,
Henry Franklin Isham, Treasurer, Joseph Henry Hyde, Steward,
Howard Douglas Kercheval, Sec.,
William Henry Dean, Tyler.
Courtland, Cal.

Grafton, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Frederick Albert McCann, Master, Frank E lmo Ely, Senior Deacon,
Grafton, Cal.
Leonard Fritz, Junior Deacon,
Rodney Munsell Ely, Senior Ward., Albert Kimmerer, Marshal,
Alexander Lawrence Kennedy, J. W., Charles Vinning Hooper, Steward,
Lloyd Nelson Tabler, Treasurer,
William Harry Wraith, Steward,
Robert S. H. Leathers, Secretary,
J ohn Boardman Huber, Tyler.
Grafton, Cal.
Cope, Clarence
Crane, Donald
Eakle, Quintus Vernile
Ely, Frank Elmo, P. M.
Ely, Isaac Jefferson, P. M.
Ely, Rodney Munsell
Fritz, Leonard, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Goettsch, Peter, P. M.
Hooper, Charles Venning
Huber, John Boardman
Jackson, Pomeroy West
Kennedy, Alexander Lawrence
Kier, Henry McBride
Kimmer, Albertis, P. M.

MEMBERS :
Arrasmith, Vernon
Bauer, Charles Emile
Bell, William Thomas
Billups, Lewis Cass
Bunnell, Charles Ernest, P. M.
Coggshall, Russell Julian
Dean, William Henry
Dean, Miles Robert, P. M.
Dean, Thomas Webster, P. M.
DeBack, Gilbert.
DeBack, John August
Ellis, Henry Herbert M.
Fallmann, Louis Helmer
Gardiner, Charles Lester Poole
Green, Beckman Boyd

Greene, Arthur Edison
Greene, George Albert
Hechtman, Albert John
Herrington, Edward Lee
Hinsdale, Lester J ease
Hinsdale, Seymour Sidney
Hollister, Charles E<lwin, P. M.
Huth, Peter Jacob, P. M.
Hutton, William Mathew
Hyde, Joseph Henry, P. M.
Isham, Henry Franklin
Isham, Murray Leo
Jacobs, Francis Henry
Kercheval, Howard Douglas, P. M .
Kercheval, Elbert Merwin, P. M.

ROSTER

220

ROSTER
Kesner, Wilfred Clark
King, Azariah Judson
Laborde, John Sylvester
Martin, Abel Heald
Martin, Joseph
McCullough, George
McQueen, Niel Campbell
Nelson, Jacob
Nichols, Will Harrison
Niestrath, Edward Gustav
Osborn, David Horace
Peck, Leroy Campbell
Phillips, Abner Coombs
Reynolds Alfred Tho. James, P. M.
Roberts, Edward

Green, Peter B.

Runyon, Armstead, P. M.
Rutherford, Walter Thomas
Ryder, Thomas Urmsen
Scribner, George Washington
Smith, Joseph, T. C.,
Smith, William James, P. M.
Stephenson, Oscar
Thisby, George
Thisby, Leonard Charles
Thisby, Robert Francis
Thisby, William John
Van Lobensels, Mauritz C. C.
Warren, Harvey Stephen
Wehr, William Henry
Yost, Clifford

-60

DIED:
Ivey, Harrison S.
Runyon, Harry Armstead

ORIENTAL LODGE, No. I44·
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
Masonic Temple.

OFFICERS:

George Bradbury Lake, Master,
Richard Cornelius Jewell, Chaplai11,
1337 7th Ave.
John Foster Clute, Senior Deacon,
John Henry Wm. Husing, S. Ward., Thomas Harris, Junior Deacon,
Charles William Whitney, J. Ward., Alfred James SllO'W, Mar.thal,
James Lawrence Hawks, Treasurer, Owen Lockhart Gibson, Steward,
Clarence Walker Dobie, Secretary, Isaac Henry Cory, Steward,
706 Market St.
Elrrier Duncan Roach, Tyler.

Alberti, George Frederick
Alden, Bertram Francis
Allen, Milton Silas
Anderson, Alfred Eric
Angus, James Stewart
Ashley, Julian Woods
Balcom, Wells Es™

MEMBERS:
Baldwin, Alfred Walton
Baldwin, George Porter
Bauer, Hamilton A•ef'y
Beede, David Harris
Belfrage, William Ferdinand
Berndt, Richard Martin Herman
Bertrand, August Alpho1t8o

Berry, Olin Lamaf, P. M.
Boardari, William Joseph
Boldemann, Adolph Charle•
Boldemann, Charles Adolph
Boldemann, Oscar
Bone, Charles, P. M.
Bourke, James Edward
Bonefield, Frederick Henry
Bowes, Edward Chipman
Boyd, David Wilson
Boye, Otto Henry
Boyes, James
Boyes, Robert
Bradley, Edward Hanna
Brickell, John Clinton
Briggs, Armand Eugene, P. M.
Brisco, William M<?unsey
Brooks, George William, P. M.
Brown, Carl Grover
Brown, Grafton Tyler
Bruman, Arthur Karr
Buckley, John Paul
Buhlinger, William Frederick
Burgren, Albert William
Buhrmeister, Henry Franklin
Burnett, George Watson
Burr, Percy Lott
Campbell, Walter Chauneey
Campbell, Wm. Robert Lee, p; M.
Chapman, William Henry
Chatfield, George Frederick
Chipperfield, Alfred Edward
Clark, Kent Wadsworth
Clarkson, Charles
Cleveland, William Wordsworth
Clute, John Foster
Conner, William Edward
Crooks, George Bates
Cory, Isaac Henry
Craig, William Berry
Crowell, Frederick William
Crowell, Walter Harding
Crowley, Timothy Joseph, P. M.
Cutten, Edward Logan
D~nford, Friend Senter

Daniel, John
Danly, Marion Price
Davis, Norris King
David.son, Arthur Edwin
deBretteville, Pierre Alex. LeN.
Deichmiller, Conrad
Dettmann, Fritz Ludwig
Diggs, Henry William
Dobie, Clarence Walker, P. M.
Dolliver, John Walter
Dornin, Nelson Edgar
Douglas, Ernest Campbell
Drew, Charles Fauver
Driffield, Vero Carus
Du Bois, Henry Voorman
Duke, Robert Douglas
Durbrow, Ross Lewis
Dutton, Robert McMillan
Dyer, Walter John
Eddy, Earl Dorr
Eichorn, Hilmar august
Elfendahl, Victor Hugo
Ellinghouse, Oscar
Elliot, Samuel Roy
Erlin, John Theodore
Fickett, James Everett
Fishbeck, Louis
Fitzhugh, Wllliam McPherson
Floyd, Edward Thomas
Foster, Arthur William
Foster, Lyman Dickerman
Fowler, George Andrew
Fowler, Thaddeus William
France, Robert Lee
Frank, Henry William
Fredericks, Arthur Remy
Fuller, William Henry
Gale, Herbert Alonzo
Garcia, Matias Joseph
Gebhardt, Charles George
Gerhardt, Peter Clarence
Gibbons, Lewis Alberto
Gibson, Owen Lockhart
Gibson, Walter D. Kirkaldy
Gilchrist, William, P. M.

221

222

ROSTER

Gillespie, Albert Edward
Goedje, Harry August
Goewey, Herbert Spencer
Gott, Willis Lemuel
Goodwin, Jamee Albert
Graham, Harry Irvine
Grant, Thomae Chamberlin
<kauerholz, Henry John
Gray, John Hatfield, P. M.
Green, Adam Treadwell
Green, Emil
Gregg, Harry Blackburn
Gregory, Edward
Groves, Harry Leland
Habenicht, George Nichole
Habenicht, Rudolph
Hamilton, William Silas, P. M.
Hammond, John Haye
Hanna, George Baum
Hardie, Frank Die!lrich
Harris, Harvey Edgar, Jr.
Harrie, Thomae
Hawkins, Jamee Shook
Hawke, Jamee Lawrence, P. M.
Hedger, Leslie Arthur
Hendry, George William
Henshall, Richard Perc1
Reuer, William Henry
Hicks, Oscar Penn, P. M.
Hilbert, Christian Henry
Hodge, Robert, P. M.
. Holcombe, Royal Arthur
Hooper, George Warren
Hopkins, Timothy
Hosken, Joseph Frederick
Hotaling, Richard M.
Houghton, Edward Payson
Hovey, Richard Hoffman
Holmes, Fred Elijah
Howard, Oliver Marshall
Howell, John Short
Hughes, Frederi('.k Summerfield
Huie, Edward Mercer
Huie, Wm. Henry Thompson
Hume, Herbert

Hume, John Scotc1iler
Hume, Joseph Wadhams
Hunkin, Samuel Johns
Hunter, John Valpey
Hueing, John Henry William
Hutchinson, Ely Israel, P. M.
Ile, John George
Imhof, Henry Francis
Jackson, Alden W.
Jacobsen, Henry
Jaegeling, Julius Philip
Jeffreys, Herbert Morgan, P. M.
Jennings, Edward B.
Jewell, Richard Cornelius, P. M.
Johnson, Roger
Johnston, Samuel Perry
Josselyn, Charles
Jost, George Willis
Jost, J oeeph
Jost, William Rheinhard, P. M.
Keith, Herbert Bayly
Kewell, Fred William
Kern, Herbert Frederick
Kip, James
Klein, Joseph
Kleinhans Albert
Knight, Charles Edwin
Koenig, Edward George
Labatt, Charles Bagot
Ladd, Frank Bacon, P. M.
Lake, George Bradbury
Lang, Albert George
Lawton, George Ernest
Lee, Samuel Jamee
Leffler, Herman Vance
Lennon, Roger
Levensaler, James Adams
Lillard, Markwell
Lindsay, Matthew John
Lloyd, Fred Brochwel
Lotz, Augustus
Mackenzie, Charles Alex.
MacMullen, James
Macpherson, Fitzhugh
Mann, Clarence Martin

ROSTER
Marcus, Morris
Martin, Frank Chapman, P. M.
Mason, Alfred Edwin
Mathews, Henry Edward
Matheson, Kenneth
Mauzy, Byron
McCarty, Alfred Matthew
Mccutchen, Edward Johnson
McDonald, John Marshal
McGinnes, Robert Tooms
McKenzie, Elmer Ellsworth
McLaughlin, William Francis
Metzner, Charles Francis
Meuesdorfl'er, John Charles
Milestone, William Hebden
Miller, George Washington
Milligan, Robert
Mitchell, Albert Jerome
Moeller, Albert John
Montague, Wilfred Weed
Moody, Robert Roddy, P. M.
Morfl'ew, Thomas
Morgan, Frederick Charles
Morgan, William RuRsell
Morris, Daniel Edward
Morris, Harrie Chester
Morrow, Robert Head
Morrow, William W.
Morton, Raymond Albert
Morton, William Earl
Muhlner, Frederick Parker
Mullan, Nathaniel Somerville
Muller, Henry Gustave
Murphy, Samuel Greene
Nauman, Clarence Charles
Nauman, Howard Arthur
Nelson, Arthur Selby
Newhall, Edwin White, P. M.
Newhall, William Mayo
Nichols. Thomas Henry
Oden, Edgar George
Onyon, Richard Toppin
Orear, Horace William
Parker, Kingsbury Eastman
Parrish, Ellis Howard

223

Partridge, Edward Briggs
Partridge, Edward Briggs, Jr.
Partridge, John
Patrick, Walter Hartman
Patterson, Daniel James
Peel, Jonathan Morffew
Pennell, Henry Edward, P. M.
Pennell, Thomas Mead
Perry, John Melvin
·Pierson, Fred Howard
Pike, Charles William
Pinkstone, Arthur John
Poheim, Joseph Francis
Polk, James Knox
Pool, William Worth
Prentice, Edwin Whitman
Primet, Edward Louis
Pryor, Alfred Edmund
Puckhaber, Charles Richard
Quigley, Leigh Richmond
Radke, August Hermann
Radke, Richard Lawrence
Ralston, William Chapman
Randall, Clement
Randall, William Morse
Redington, Alfred Poett
Redner, Fred Peter
Reindollar, Charles Frost
Remensperger, William Alex.
Riley, Earll Thomas
Ringresey, Albert Preston
Roach, Elmer Duncan
Robinson, Cornelius Preston, P. M.
Robinson. Leighton Charles Powell
Roebke, Fred Carl, Jr.
Rosie, Walter
Ross, Thomas Paterson
Rowell, Leonard Gifford
Schmid, Christian
Schmidt, Frederick
8chmitt, Joseph William
Schneider, Edward William
Schoning, Otto Alvin
Schohay, Albert John
Schott, Louis

224

ROSTER

ROSTER

Scott, Ebenezer
Seelig, George
Serviss, Thomas Wilson
Sessions, Volney Paul
Seyler, Charles, Jr.
Siebe, George Henry
Simister, Herbert
Simpson, Waldie James
Smith, Harry Burt, Jr.
Smith, Henry Sydney
Smith, Isaac Lincoln
Smith, James Coleman
Smith, Lewis Warren
Smith, Walter Bashford
Snow, Alfred James
Somers, Howard
Spader, Charles Thoms
Sperry, Horace Benjamin
Sprague, Peter Tiburco
Spreckels, John Diedrich
Stewart, Murty Douglas
Stoddart, Augustus Wynne
Stokes, Frederick Robert
Stoll, Albert George
Stroh, George Noyes
Swain, Clarkson
Swan, Benjamin Ralph
Swanson, Alex.
Sullivan, Alan Elwood
Suydam, Charles Henry
Templeman, Henry
Therkof, Gustave Henry
Thomas, Henry Ignatious
Thompson, George Howard, P. M.
Thomp!11>n, Thomas Larkin
Thomson, Stuart Coventry
Thurston, Samuel Royal
Todd, Frank Gregory

Carpenter, Thomas Earl

Tonningsen, John, P. M.
Traung, Charles Frederick
Troutt, James Morris, P. M.
Turkington, Robert Richardson
'furner, David
Turner, William John
Van Ness, Arthur W.
Van Norden, Rudolph Warner
Von Rhein, Frank Lincoln
Voorman, Henry Augustus
Wallace, James Hargraves
Ward, John Thomas
Ward, William Douglas
Warner, Charles Hutchinson
Watkins, Alonzo Augustus
Weaver, (]bester Neal
Wells, Albert Ackley
WP.Ila, Norton Chamberlin
Westdahl, Ferdinand, P. M.
Westdahl, Ferdinand Wishy
Westdahl, Lawrence Hawley
Wetherby, Wallace Tappan
Whelan. William Augustus
White, William James
Whitehead, Ernest
Whitney, Charles William
Wieland, Emil John
Wienand, Leopold David
Willits, Charles Davis
Williams, Arthur Volmar
Williams, Charles
Williams, Robert Barker
Wilson, John Charles
Windeler, Henry Frederick
Woods, Fred Nickerson, Jr.
Woolsey, Chester Howard
Younger, William John

-359

WITHDRAWN:
Plattner, Eugene Lester

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Boyd, Samuel Alexander
Dunckel, Ira Titus Chapin

McPherson, Edward :flutler
Selfridge, James Russell

DIED:
Davies, Llewellyn
Ellis, Henry Cromwell
Hobro, William Dovey
Hubbard, Adolphus Skinner

Randall, Samuel Bunker
Reid, James Steel
Rising, Alfred Hunt
Wood, Abraham

VITRUVIUS LODGE, No. 145.
Bloomfield, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding l!'ull Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Antognini, Joseph
Hinshaw, John David, P. M.
Arenander, Earnest Joseph
Hopkins, Albon David
Bianchini, Augestino
Irvin, James Thomas
Bonaiti, Achelle
Jacobsen, Uarl Sophia
Capella, Thomas Jam es
Jameson, James Marshall
Caughey, James Francis
Jensen, Ninls Christian
Coporgno, Virgil
Jones, Patrick Carroll
Collister, Oscar, P. M.
Jones, Walter
Collister, William Stanley
King, James
Cockrill, Bruce Travis
Kowalsky, Henry Isaac
Cockrill, William Aaron, P. M.
Larsen, Rasmus Gergen
Cornett, William Henry
Laufenburg, Michael Ney
Cunningham, Isaac
Le Baron, Claude Leslie
Cunninghame, Alex. Lawrence
Le Baron, Chauncey Arthur, P. M.
Cunninghame, William Na8,,au
Levens, Harry Stocking
de Klark, Henry·
Linebaugh, William Abraham
Dickinson, Leon
Mache, Amerigo
Duncan, Thomas Jefferson
Morganti Epi
Freeman, Warren Whitcomb
_Oliver, John Salton, P. M.
Galehouse, Frank Clark
.
Pellascio, Miglio John
Guldager, Hans
Petersen, Peter
Hall, William Parker
Reinoehl, Charles Henry
Harvey, Ira Berry, P. M.
Roe, George Robert
Hansen, Alexander
Sartori, Ignazio
Herbert, William Henry
Smith, Commodore Perry
Iiundley, Elmer M.
Smith, Russell L.
15

225

226

ROSTER
ROSTER

Steele, David
Steele, Thomas John
Stump, John Conrad
Sturgeon, Wade

Thomas, David
Williams, Charles Celey
Wilson, Andrew

-5U
DIED:
LeBaron, Harrison Melvin

ABELL LODGE, No. 146.
Ukiah, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Frank Thomas Barker, Master,
Neil Marion Anker, Senior Deacon,
Ukiah, Cal.
Hubert James Wellman, Jun. Deac.,
Hale McCowen, Jr., Senior Warden, George Pressley Anderson, Marshal,
Percy West Handy, Junior Wari(en, Frederick Murdock McKenzie, Stew.,
James Robert Matthews, Treasurer, Samuel John Wellman, Steward,
Edward V ernon Henley, Secretary, Joseph Gannett, Tyler.
Ukiah, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Buekstein, Myer
Burnight, Thomas Starr
Carothers, Thomas Langley, P. M.
Carothers, .Tames Holliday
Case, Edwin Gains, P. M.
Charlton, Thomas
Chessall, William Henry, P. M.
Cleland, Thomas Montana, P. M~
Cleland, Bertram Leon, P . M.
Cleland, Herschel Orville
Clubb, Herbert Joseph Rees
Crawford, Charley Lewis
Cunningham, Charles, P. M.
Diddle, John. Franklin
Dickinson, Almer Edwin
Donohoe, Robert Emmett
Douglas, Roy Horton
Eversole, John Walter, P. M.
Fairbanks, Manda! Whipple
Finne, William

Abraham, Louis
Allen, Frederick Emerson
Anderson, George Pressley, P. M.
Anker, Florine Erie, P. M.
Anker, Louis Peter, P. M.
Anker, Niel, P. M.
Anker, Neil Marion
Babcock, Lyman Wilbert, P. M.
Baily, Washington Irving, P. M.
Baily, Washington Irving, Jr.
Banks, Robert William
Barker, Frank Thomas
Barker, John Henry
Berryhill, Joseph Tanner
Bohm, George Hermansen
Bond, Thomas Benjamin, P. M.
Bradley, George Felix
Branscomb, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Bromley, William, P. M.
Brower, John Daniel

Finne, Fred
Flaherty, George Jay
Frehe, Alfred Lewis
Gannett, Joseph
Ganter, Clarence Franklin
Ganter, Clinton Everett
Gowell, Charles Alfred
Grant, Horace Gustavus
Grover, Isaac Wilson
Handy, Fred Clark, P. M.
Handy, Percy West
Harrington, Harry
Hatch, Sylvester Benjamin
Held, William Daniel Louis
Hendrix, Jay Ward
Henley, Edward Vernon
Hilliard, Jesse Frederick
Hirsch, Maurice, P. M.
Hoag, Leslie
Holliday, Stonewall Jackson
Hopkins, Charles Blodget
Howard, William Harper
Hutchison, Robert Lee, P. M.
Johnson, Louis
Kellen, Orville Warren
Kenyon, Oades John
Kilbo:1rn, William Vincent
King, Edward Warren, P. M.
Kohler, George Frederick
Langren, August
Layton, Frank Burton
Lenox. James
Mad<lrill, James Davis
Mannon, James Milton, Sr., P. M.
Mannon, James Milton, Jr.
Mannon, Charles McFerson, P. M.
Mathews, James Robert
McClure, Arthur Bedford
McC'ormick, Joseph
McC'owen, George, P. M.
Mccowen, Hale, P. M.
Mccowen, Hale, Jr.
McCracken, Joseph Leslie
McKenzie, Frederick Murdock
Montague, Lemuel Davis
Morris, Harry

227

Mulcahy, David
Olsen, Oscar Lewis
Orr, James Henry
Peirce, Charles Edward
P11rcy, Edwin Hudson
Poage, William Gustavus
Randall, Henry Joshua
Rhodes, George Harold
Rich, Charles Edwin
Rice, William Thomas
Roeder, Frederick Murdock
Rudee, Max
Sandelin, Frank
Schaefer, Max Alfred
Schefer, John Henry
Scholtz, Antone
Sharon, Frank Eugene
Shinn, George Edgar
Sierck, Frank Harry
Sierck, William
Smith, Charles Henry
Smith, Douglas Clair
Smith, Howard B., P. M.
Snow, John
Stout, George Washington, P. M.
Taylor, John
Thomas, James Roberd
Thomas, William Pendleton
Thomson, Harry Adelbert
Tindall, Clarence E.
Van Dyke, Benjamin Franklin
VanDyke, William S., P. M.
Van Nader, Bert Dalton
Viles, Carlton Hoodlett
Walton, Benson
Waugh, Fred Hittell
Wellman, David Eli
Wellman, Hubert James
Wellman, James De Forrest
Wellman, Samuel John
Wheeler, Samuel
White, Valmour Cleland
Wills, John Perry
Wilson, Francis Marion
Yell, Archibald, P. M.
Zimmerman, William Tell
-132

ROSTER

ROSTER

228

SUSPENDED !<'OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Conry, Clarence Albert
Hirsch, Benoit Samuel
Markle, Robert Bruce
Orr, James Henderson, Jr.

Proudfoot, "'.illiam
Sandman, John Jacob
Stewart, George Duncan Bennett
Thatcher, Arthur James

EEL RIVER LODGE, No. 147.
Fortuna., Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Dinsmore, George Evan
Alexander, Maxwell Parke
Anderson, Martin
Dixon, John William, P. M.
Eastman, Charles Austin, P. M.
Baker, Henry Grant
Ellis, Clarence Eugene
Barkdull, Alva Raymond
Evers, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Barkdull, Joseph Carley
Feigenbaum, Joseph
Barnes, Aaron Selby
Fisher, Walter Thomas, P. M.
Beacom, Charles Wakefield
Forsythe, John Robinson
Bellatti, John Baptista
Frost, Charles Baker
Bennett, Henry Paxson
Frost, James Lumbert
Bird, James Bishop,
Faulkner, Eaton
Bothe, Charles William
Fuller, Willis Meares
Bowman, Reginald Hamilton
Gillogly, Mathew Lee
Bryant, Cyrus Edwin
Gray, William Daniel
Burton, Richard Morton
Greig, Thomas Alexander
Callihan, Robert
Guthrie, Samuel Porter
Chidester, Marion, P . M.
Hansell, Harry Guthrie
Connick, Alex. Grant
Hansell, Harry Kingston F ., P. M.
Connick, John Melvin, P. M.
Hansell, Amos, Jr.
Crabtree, Frank
Hancock, William Luther
Dale, Jeremiah
Davis, Henry Delasaux
Hansen, Daniel Webster
Harris, Robert Lee, P. M.
Davis, Henry Nelson
Hauck, Nathan ·
Davis, George Oxley
Delamare, Henl'V Sincl11.ir. P. M.
Hayden, Charles Wilbur
Helmke, Frederick Martin
Dinsmore, Harold Adam
Dinsmore, Fred Andrea
Henry, Melvin Claude

Hiller, George
Hiller, Phillip Alex.
Hornbrook, Ralph Leslie
Hull, Joseph
Hubbard, James Calvert
Hunnacut, James Jeffries
Hunter, Edgar St. John
Innes, Walter Edson
James, Samuel Oliver
Kay, Fred Moses
Kinman, Carlin
Kramer, Herbert
Kohnenburg, Henry John
Lamb, Alex. Abel
Lane, John Alex.
Lawson, James
Legg, Gordon Rolley
Long, George William
Loveren, George Stillman
Luther, Frank William
Leach, Frederick Arthur
Marshall, James Edward
Masson, Alexander
Maxwell, James Washington
McNeil, Brice Hoagland, P. M.
Medcalf, John Edward H.
Morgan, Bertram F .
Neill, Louis Allison
Newman, John George
North, Davis Beauregard
Norwood, William John, P. M.
Oliver, Frank Wright, P. JI!·
Orcutt, Thaddeus Adam
Perker, Leon Anderson
Beckwith, Frank Walter

Perrott, Walter Louis
Palmer, Edwin Alex.
Parkman, Clarence Eugene
Plymale, Dionicius
Robertson, Edgar Simpson
Rowley, Charles A. E.
Runnels, Leslie
Runnels, William Leonard
Runner, John William
Ryan, John Walter, P. M.
Schueler, Henry William
Skinner, Frank
Slingsby, James
Smith, Frederick David
Starr, Chester Thompson
Sears, Guy Travis
Shields, Earl David
Slater, Hugh Henry
Stewart, George Edwin
Stewart, Wellington Homer, P. M.
Stone, George Wells
Swanger, Samuel Frederick
Thompson, Charles Robert
Travis, John Armstrong
Tuttle, Frederick Ackerman
Twohey, Arthur E. B.
Underwood, George
Van Sickle, Thomas
Weber, Michaels Nicholas
Whitney, Charles Harris
Wood, John William
Webster, Edward Warren
Wooten, Claude Samuel
-118

WITHDRAWN:
Webster, Edwin Warren

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dunnigan, William Good

Lamb, Winfred Scott

229

DIED:
Weber, Martin

ROSTER

230

LASSEN LODGE, No. 149.

Susanville, Lassen County.
Stated Meetings, :first Saturday in eacn month.
OFl:'ICERS:
Ross Eber Bangham, Master,
Leon Roy Cady, Senior Deacon,
Susanville, Cal.
Charles Everet Lawson, Jun. Deac.,
Charles Willis Hallowell, Sen Ward ., James Augustus Pardee, Marshal,
Samuel Lyman Damon, Junior Wd .. Lorenzo Eugene De Forest, Steward,
Philip Jacob Goumaz, Treasurer,
Cleveland Hill, Steward,
William Stone Harrison, Secretary, Charles Francisco Caughell, Tyler.
Susanville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Emerson, Charles Thomas
Alexander, Jules
Emerson, Charles Ed., P. M.
Arnold, Alex. Thrall
Enhorning, Herman .Olaf
Arnold, Medford Roop
Feher, Emil Justh
Asher, Morris
Folsom, Lewis Melville
Bangham, Frank Henry
Bangham, Sandusky Fred
Folsom, Melville Orman
Fraser, William Walter
Bangham, Ross Eber
Goumaz, Philip Jacob
BaRsett, George Estell
Gregory, A. Martin
Bennett, Herbert Warren, P. M.
Boggs, Chester Arthur
Hall. Charles E .
Borrette, John Skedge, P. M.
Hall, William Henry, P. M.
Brockman, William, P. M.
Hall, Louis Davis
Brockman, Willis Collins
Hallowell, Charles Willis
Bunnell, Abel
Harrison, William Stone
Hart, William Ralph, P. M.
Burroughs, Harry De Forest
Cady, Leon Roy
Hendricks, Howard Edmonde
Cain, Fred A.
Hulsman, John Fritz
Campbell, John Elmer
Hulsman, William Grant .
Caswell, Preston
Hunsinger, Augustus Cassius
Caughill, Charles Fra.ncisco
Hunter, Joseph H.
Carter, Wm. Jonathan
Hurlbut, R~bert Ward
Hyer, David Campbell
Cleve~nd, Hill
Johnson, William John
Coffin, Erle B.
Collins, Raymond Humphrey
Kingsbury, Edward Orrin
Cramer, Charles
Knoch, Isaac
Cramer, Daniel Frederick
Knudson, Lewis
Damon, Samuel Lyman
Lawson, Charles Everett
Davis, Willis H.
Leavitt, Benjamin Harrison
Leonard, Jared G.
DeForest, Alvin Eugene, P. M.
DeForest, Charles Vaden
Martin, Edward Alonzo
DeForest, Gilbert Edward, P. M.
Masten, John Thomas
De Forest, Lorenzo Eugene
Mcclaskey, Frank Tahoe
Dodge, Edmund R.
McDow, George Nelson
Earl, William Howarrl
M~Kay, Henry Thad.
0

ROSTER
McKinsey, Noble Samuel
Minckler, William David
Mosely, Albert William
Nathan, Solomon
Odett, Charles Albert
Otto, Fred A.
Pardee, James Augustus, P. M.
Pardee, Julien Eugene, P. M.
Philbrook, Alonzo Kelley
Ramsey, John Francis
Ramsey, Thomas Abner
Roseberry, Thomas Alex., P. M.
Shanks, Frederick Hastings
Sharp, William Walker
Sifford, Alex.
Smith, Louis Sprigg
Snyder, Henry

231

Spalding, John Bridger
Spalding, Wilbur Fisk
Talbott, Basie Homer
Thibault, Lewis
Tremain, Ivan Robert
Tremain, Joseph Mellow
Van Loan, Elmer
Van Norden, Thomas Albert
Vogt, John Henry, Jr.
Vincent, William Elmer
Ward, David Franklin
Ward, Franklin Millard
Wilson, Ernest Everett
Winchester, George Edward
Worley, Jesse Crim
Zimmerman, John William

-101

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Streshley, Frank A.
DIED:
Branham, James
Cahlan, John

Black, James Curran

MOLINO LODGE, No.

150.

Tehama, Te.llama County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Thomas Youles, Master,
William J. Sellick, Chaplain,
Tehama, Cal.
Daniel Murray Lee, Senior Deacon,
William Ephraim Underhill, Sen. W., Chester Stanley Vogelsang, J. Deac.,
John Edward Hall, Junior Warden, Charles Clark, Marshal,
John Simpson, Treasurer,
William Edward W anee, Steward,
William Dawson McCune, Secretary, John Edward Risse, Steward,
Tehama, Cal.
.
William P . Boyer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aitken, Andrew Boyd
Aitken, Robert Balentine
Anderson, Fred Fleming

Asman, Otto Edward, P. M.
Blatchey, Joseph
Bogard, Andrew Jackson

232

ROSTER

ROSTER

Boyer, William Paul
Britt, George Leroy
Chamberlain, Joseph
Champlin, George Beecher, P. M.
Clark, Alfred Roy
Clark, Aurelius Ray
Clark, Charles Henry
Clark, Ernest Pier
Clark, Henry
Clegg, Robert
Conrad, Samuel Edgar
Davis, Grover Cleveland
Finnell, Simpson
Golden, John Henry
Golden, Nicholas Francis
Gyle, Louis Abraham
Gyle, Sylvan Herman, P. M.
Gyle, Joseph Charles
Hall, John Edward
Houseman, John Samuel
Houseman, Robert Porterfield
Lee, Daniel Murray
Lee, William
Mason, Orville Lucius
McBride, William G.
McCune, Wm. Dawson
McGuinness, Thomas, P. M.
Miller, William Wallace
Means, Thomas Herbert
Montgomery, William Thomas
Morrisey, Thomas Francis

Muller, John Baptist
Osborn, Jesse Mason
Peden, Albert Oliver
Pitts, Eugene Hiram
Risse, John
Rikert, Benjamin Frederic
Ryan, John Joseph
Schroer, Frederick
Sellick, William Joseph, P. M.
Simpson, John, P. M.
Simpson, George Charles, P. M.
Smith, Matthew Allen
Smith, Raymond Manlove
Stanley, Edward Charles
Stock, Joseph Ferdinand
Stockstill, Elisha Nelson
Tuman, George Elmer
Tuman, Edward Whited
Tyler, Ulysses Butte
Underhill, William Ephriam
Vogelsang, George
Vogelsang, Stanley
Wanee, William Edward
Weitemeyer, George James
Williamson, William
Wood, Charles
Worthington, John James
Youles, Arthur John
Youles, John Thomas
Zintz, Conrad Thomas

MEMBERS:

-61

WOODLAND LODGE, No. 156.
Woodland, Yolo County.
.
Stated Meetings, third Friday in each month.
OFFICEES:
William Dykes, Master,
Eugene Thomas Lampton, Chaplain,
Woodland, Cal.
Tracey Bot!rstler, Senior Deacon,
Warren Allston Brown, S. Warden, Frank Walter Weaver, Jun. Deacon,
Harry Sinclair Summers, J. Warden, John Fingland, Marshal,
Hezekiah Monroe Miller, Treasurer, Charles Oscar Dingle, Steward,
William Henry Curson, Secretary, Herbert Alton Waterman, Steward,
650 First St., Woodland, Cal.
William Bradley Young, Tyler.

Arens, Thomas Otto, P. M.
Armstrong, Bert
Bailey, Archie Glover
Baird, Edward Llewellyn
Baird, Edward John
Baker, Clayton Sinclair
Ball, Byron, P. M.
Ball, Chester Alex.
Ball, Gerald Lamont
Bandy, James Edward
Bandy, Claude Marion
Barker, Samuel Wm.
Barnes, Cosby Henry
Barnes, Henry Thomas
Beamer, Richard Henderi1on
Bernard, Walter Allen
Black, William Small
Blanchard, Frank Williams
Blevins, William Joseph
Boerstler, Tracey
Brown, Richard Marion
Brown, Warren Allston
Browning, Robert Welch
Burns, Daniel Monroe, P. M.
Bush, Henry Jonathan
Cain, William Henry
Coil, Herbert Elmer
Coil, LeRoy
Craig, Wilton Porter
Craig, John Stephens
Cranston, Lester Henry
Criteser, William Thomas
Crutcher, Elliott Wallar
Cummins, Thomas Day
Curson, Nicholas Wyckoff
Curson, William Henry, P. M ..
Deaner, Samuel Christian
Dickey, Edward Willise
Dickinson, Clarence Fitzhugh
Dingle, Charles Edward, P. M.
Dingle, Charles Oscar
Decker, Jasper Newton
Dykes, William

Duncalf, Walter, P. M.
Eakle, Henry Poffenberger, Jr.
Elliott, Henry Baker, P. M.
Ellison, John Harrison
Everett, Louis Phillip
Ewert, Friedrich Charles
Fairchild, Fred Ross
Farnham, Erastus Sy1vester
Ferguson, Franklin Benjamin
Fingland, John
Fish, Charles Orlando, P. M.
Fitz, George Hilton
Gaddis, Edward Everett
Garoutte, Jere Monahan
Gable, Hayes Harvey, P. M.
Gibson, Thomas &llard
Gibson, Robert James
Gill, Henry Davis
Gostick, Charles Edward
Grant, John T.
Gregory, William Henry, P. M.
Griggs, Sylvester Minor
Harling, John DGuglas
Harrold, Arthur Benjamin
Hartsock, Herman Adam
Hartsock, Luzerne Harrison
Hawkins, Bellwood Chase
Hawkins, Nicholas Andrew
Hayward, Edward Babbitt
Hecke, Gustav Henry
Henshall, John Alfred
Hilliker, Loren Warren
Hollingsworth, George Warren
Holt, Isaac Henry
Huston, Arthur Craig, P. M.
Huston, Edward Panamore
Huston, Harry Lyle
Hughes, Byron Clayton
Hughes, Delwyn Edward
Hughes, Norris Edwin
Hughes, Thomas Green, P. M.
Hyman, William Morris, P. M.
Jacobs, Daniel Elmer

233

234

ROSTER

Kauffman, Forrest Augustus
Kean, William Otho
Kern, George Tilden
Kincheloe, Zachariah Benson
Kitto, Thomae Humphrey
Lampton, Eugene Thomae, P. M.
Lasky, Israel
Langenour, William Roy, P. M.
Langenour, Charles T.
Langenour, Philip Thomae, P. M.
Lawhead, Hiram Davie
Lawson, Fred Hamlin
Lee, Adelbert Robert
Leithold, John Vincent
Leslie, Wesley Le Roy
Linderman, James Edward
Mast, Edward John Fred 'k
Mattei, Fred Louie
Mattei, Frank Peter
McConnell, James Isom, P. M.
McCullough, Fred 'k Frank
McCullough, Fred 'k Gapen
McFarland, John Carr
McQuaid, John William, P. M.
Miller, David
Miller, Henry Earl
Miller, Hezekiah Monroe
Miller, Noah Lee
Miller, Norman Boone
Michael, Morris
Mixon, William Franklin, P. M.
Morris, Amie!
Montgomery, Samuel Morris
Murray, Joseph Alfred
Musgrove, Jacob DeKalb
N aeon, Fred Lowell
North, Arthur Walbridge
Osborne, Clyde Albert
Owens, Ivor David
Parker, Oscar Erwin
PerJcins, Calvin
Persons, Geo. Washington, P. M.
Petersen, Wilhelm Johan
Pond, Wallace Rognetta
Porter, Harry Deloss

Praet, Edward William
Rablin, William Henry
Rasmussen, Hans Jacob W.
Rasor, Ulatre
Read, Aytchmonde Clarence
Reese, Thomas Brown
Richmond, Charles Lambartl
Roberts, Hampton Evans
Rosenberg, Isidor
Russell, Willie F.
Ryan, Henry Philander
Saunders, Harry Russell
Schuder, William Campbell, P. M.
Sieber, Christian Henry
Sieber, Louis Chris
Smith, Eddie Ryan
Smith, Wm. Franklin
Snavely, Ervie Cecil
Spaulding, Thaddeus Stephens
Stephens, Benjamin Hickman
Stephens, Frank Warren
Suggett, Buford Cadwell
Suggett, Homer Marion
Summers, Harry Sinclair
Thompson, George Gilbert
Thomas, Charles Wilbur, Jr.
Turner, James Edmund
Van Meter, Conrad Lucius
Von J ochumson, Frederick
Wallace, Richard Percival
Ward, Moses Wylie
Weaver, Frank Walter
West, Herman Bradford
West, William Henry, P. M.
Whitney, George Elledge
Wilcoxon, Caleb Russell, P . M.
Wilson, Preston Gillen
Wirth, Christian Frederick
Williams, Samuel Thomas
Windsor, John William
Winne, William Henry
Witham, Alvin Milton
Wright, John Henry
Young, William B., P . M.
-176

ROSTER

235

WITHDRAWN:
Dungan, Jesse Holland

Murray, Sidney Lafayette
DIED:

Mumma, Thomas Jefferson

Nelson, William Wirt

KEYSTONE LODGE, No. 16r.
Milton, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, S~turday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Allen, Horace Bell, P. M.
Baker, John Manuel, P. M.
Botcher, Conrad Franklin
Burnham, Frederick Cloyd
Dennis, William Samuel
Denton, Walter Lines
Hansen, Carl Christian
Hartsock, Addison Leroy
Helms, Johann Frederick
Hildebrand, Steven Decatur, P. M.
Honey, Milton
Horne, Frank Edmond
Hunt, Marion Lee

Huntington, Chandler, P. M.
Johnston, Benjamin
Klemp, Jacob
Klinger, Floyd Auery
Lillie, James Joshua
Nevens, Thomas
Rhodes, William Henry Harrison
Rhodes, Charles Wise, P. M.
Schroebel, Richason Rhodes
Shipley, William Chapma11, P. M.
Smith, Donald Craig
Snow, William
Stewart, John Daniels
-26

WITHDRAWN:
J organs on, Nills J orgen Wm,

Shepherd, James Shields

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Fontana, Charles Dominio

ROSTER

236

HARMONY LODGE, NCI 164.
Sierra City, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.

OF:.t'ICERS:
William Andrew Lavery, Master,
Arthur Richard Pride, Senior Deac.,
Sierra City, Cal.
Oscar Emil Anderson, Junior Deac.,
Thomas Colfax Botting, Sen. Ward., ........................................ ,Marshal,
John A vignoni, Junior Warden,
Levi Garfield, Steward,
Emil Albert Loeifler, Treasurer,
Richard James, Steward,
William Cox, Secretary,
Richard Felix Avignoni, ryter.
Sierra City, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Oscar Emil
Avignoni, John
Avignoni, Richard Felix
Botting, Thomas Colfax
Cox, William, P. M.
Castagnetti, Jerome
Culbertson, Claude Milnott

Folsom, Jay Clarance
Garfield, Levi
James, William Matthew
James, Richard
Lavery, William Andrew, P. M.
Leoffler, E~il Albert
Pride, Arthur Richard
-14

EXCELSIOR LODGE, No. 166.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, tirst Wednesday in each month.
Masonic Temple

OFFICERS:
James Arthur Kuykendall, Master, Thomas David Colesrock, S. Deacon,
995 Market Street.
Henry Berthold Nibbe, /. Deacon,
James Hardy Lewis, Sen. Warden, Arthur Worchester Pike, Marshal,
Benjamin Milfred Wood, J. Warden, Delbert Mathews Bory, Steward,
Sam Houston Daniels, Treasure1·,
Carl Victor Klinker, Steward,
Hugh James Owen, Secretary,
George Washington Perkins, Tyler.
1888 O'Farrell Street.

Adams, Adolph
Adams, Charles Albert, P. M.
Alexander, George Lewis
Allen, Arthur Fuller

MEMBERS:
Allen, Isaac Patten
Allen, John
Anderson, Reinhold Laracenius
Arding, William Arthur

ROSTER
Buffington, William Horace
Argust, Thomas John
Bull, Franklin Pettingel, P. M.
Armstrong, George Robert, P. M.
Bundy, George
Atkins, Frank Ernest
Atkinson, Thomas Thompson, P. M. Busby, Frederick Henry
Cameron, John William, P. M.
Auger, Harry Leon
Campbell, Henry Homer
Averell, Herbert Ellsworth
Ayers, Edward Newton
Campa, John George
Carlson, Gustave Edwin
Bailey, Mitchell Phillips
Carter, Stewart
Baker, Francis Joseph
Chandler, Lewis Edward
Baker, James Whitley
Chloupek, Erwin Ladislat
Ballard, Jedediah Stow
Christesen, Martin August C.
Balls, John
Clark, True Sanford
Barre, Christopher Columbus
Claussenius, Maximilian
Barnhisel, Epenetus Rodgers
Barr, William George
Cloak, Henry Burdell
Clover, John Alex.
Barrere, Louis
Bauer, Charles Franklin
Coffin, Joseph Wilbur, Jr.
Bauer, George William
Cole, Nathaniel Parker
Beatty, John
Colestock, Thomas David
Bender, Carl Godfrey
Colford, Lewis Oscar
Benjamin, Frank Edward
Collins, Charles Henry
Bisbee, George Washington
Collins, Henry Charles, P. M.
Black, James Alex.
· Collins, William Henry
Blake, Sumner Iverson
Compagno, Emanuel
Blanchard, Walter Hutchings
Conlan, Edwara Joseph
Blanckenburg, Emil Louis William Conrad, John George, P. M.
Bodler, Frank Frederic
Cook, Carroll, P. M.
Corbett, William Colver
Boerner, Charles August
Covert, George Howarcl
·Boettcher, Paul
Croal, George James
Bohls, Henry
Borland, James Howatt
Crosby, James Winfield
Culver, George De Witt
Boutelle, William Clarence
Cumback, William Elbert
Bramsted, John Henry
Brann, Walter Scott
Cuthbert, John William
Cutter, Edward Bowie
Breidenbach, Emile Henry
Daniels, Sam Houston, P. M.
Brown, Albert Nelson
Brown, Henry Eastman
Davidson, John Clay
Davis, Burt Lincoln
Brown, James Albert
Brown, Moses Pettingell
Davis, Charles Lott
Brown, Willis Merritt
Davis, Marks
Davis, Warren Franklin
Broy, Delbert Mathews
Brunings, John Henry
Davis, Wintield Scott
Brunt, Walter Neat, P. M.
Deering, Frank Prentiss
Bryant, Edgar Reeve
DeGuire, Robert Paul
Buchse, Ernest Augustus
Delamater, Rolla Cornelius

237

238

ROSTER

Delzelle1 William Robert
Dial, Edwin Lee
Dick, William Henry, P. M.
Dillon, Gerald Luke
Doherty, John Charles
Dorr, Levi Lewis
Dorr, William Raymond
Duft', Thomas Carson
Dunkle, Edwin M.
Dunne, Joseph John
Dye, Milo Ernest
Easton, Wendell, P. M.
Eaton, Louis Page
Edwards, James Washington
Edwards, Raymond Arden
Edwards, William
Eidenmuller, William Cooper
Emerick, Walter Archibald
Esser, Alex. Julius
Evers, Edward Napoleon
Faulkner, Charles Pittman, P. M.
Faull, Ashley Richard
Faull, William Clark
Fenkhausen. Rudolph Henry
Fennimore, Walter Dana
Ferguson, George Bonnell
Ferguson, Howard William
Ferguson, Phineas Fanning, P. M.
Ferguson, William Cook
Feudner, Martin Otto
Fischer, Edward George
Fitch, Luther Edward
Forbes, John Franklin
Ford, Joseph Daniels
Forry, Charles Edward
Forster, Edwin Lycurgus, P. M.
Foy, Frank John
Frazer, Thomas Jackson
Frisbee, George Gordon
Frisbee, Jacob Lynn
Fry, Robert Baker
Gallet, Henry Wells
Gardner, John Endicott
Garratt, Milton Donohue
Gauthier, Eugene, Jr.

Gearing, Frederick
Geisaler, Carl George Lewie
Gerdes, Frederick Carsten
Gerdts, John
Gilmore, William Shepard
Gingg, Emil
Gingg, Herman Charles, P. M.
Gingg, Rudolf Cleveland
Gould, Charles Walter
Gould, Harry Folsom
Graham, Thomas Dunnett
Greene, Charles Henry
Gregory, Edward Herbert L.
Gruenhagen, Theodore Godlowe
Guest, Thomas Frederick
Gunton, Howard Mathew
Guyett, Roderick George, P. M.
Hagbom, Emil Wilhelm
Hagglund, John Gustave
Hall, Frank Delmer
Halsted, William Augustus
Hammond, Manton E.
Hannigan, Michael Percival
Hart, Harrold D.
Heitmuller, Henry Diedrich
Hellwig, Herbert Frederick
Hensley, Freiierick Conway, P. M.
Hensley, George Augustus
Hensley, William John
Hess, William Edward
Hill, John Ellis
Hill, Joseph Andrew •
Hoffman, Ramon King
Hogan, Howard Henry
Hollister, Frank E.
Howard, Charles Stewart
Hughes, Jesse Pierce
Hulme, Charles Allen
Hulme, Edwin Page
Hulme, James Garfield
Hummel, Herman Henry
Humphrey, Charles Franklin
Hui;iter, Frank Lee
Hunter, Lewis Clarence, P. M.
Iredale, Charles Winslow

ROSTER
Irvine, Leigh Hadley
Iverson, Charles Wm.
Johnson, Frank
Johnson, James Halvor
Johnson, John Charles
Johnston, Daniel Lawrence
Jones, Albert Thomas
Jones, Arthur Owen
Jones, Arthur Sidney
Jones, William Ernest
Kampe, Solomon
Keene, Reginald Edwin
Kelton, Edward Ames
Kempston, Arthur
Kenyon, Curtis George, P. M,
Kerr, Thomas Blair
Klein, John Adolph
Klinker, Carl Victor
Kohn, Isaack
Koster, John Andrews
Krieger, Charles Mathew
Kuenzi, Albert Rudolph M.
Kuykendall, Joseph Arthur
Lacey, Albert Ernest
Lacey, Joseph Carlisle
La Forest, Emile
Lank, Samuel James
Large, William Henry
Laughlin, Clyde Briggs
Lawrie, John Urquhart
Leary, Daniel Florence
Leavitt, John WheelE.r
Lee, Frank James
Lewis, James Hardy
Lewis, Leland Stanford
Lindner, August Richard
Lindner, Ernest Gottlieb
Lindsey, Edward Kimball
Lloyd, William Vaughn
London, Henry
Long, George Searley
Love, James Alex.
Lowe, Edmund Ashbrook
Lucas, Walter Edward
Lumley, John

Mackie, William
Mangrum, Arthur Sherman
Marcussen, Marcus
Marks, Jesse Emanuel
Martens, Frederick Theo.
Marwedel, Charles Walter
Masterson, Joseph Alfred
Matteson, Erastus Potter
Maxwell, Franklin
Mayer, Louie Carl
McCiaughry, Hull
McCoy, Henry Dohrman
McGahie, Robert John
McGregor, Samuel
McKenna, Joseph Dimond
McKeller, Norman
McLean, Walter Josepil
McMullin, Samuel
McNair, William Wilson, P. M.
Mehrtens, John Henry
Menzies, James Scott
Merrill, Jay Harrold
. Mettmann, Frank Xavier
Miall, Cuthbert Erskine, .M.
Miles, Earl Claybourne
Miles, William Emmert
Miller, Alex. Charles
Minaker, Andrew Jones
Minor, Theo. Henry
1J:inson, Robert Kemp
Mitchell, George Marion
Mix, Lee Williams.on
Morgan, Charles Lewis
Morrison, John Chambers
Moseley, Andrew Simpson
Murdock, George Hamilton
Nagel, Charles Hoffman
Nibbe, Henry Berthold
Nichols, James Francis
Nicoll, Wallace Clifton
Noble, Howard Delos, P. M.
Nutter, Eugene Colley
Osborn, Lamartine
Overgaard, Soren KnudRen
Overto~ Charles Parshall, P. M.

239

240
Owen, Edgar Hugh
Owen, Hugh Jamee, P. M.
Owen, Melville Griffith
Parish, Mark
Patterson, Robert Hamilton
Pease, Charles Julius
Pedlar, William James
Percy, Earl Newman
Perkins, George Washington
Perkins, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Perry, Frederic Jewell
Pike, Arthur Worcester
Pippy, George Henry
Plughoft', Albert David
Pohlmann, Theo. Herman Wm.
Porcher, John
Powers, Aaron Hubbard
Purdie, John Stewart
Purrington, Clarence Woodfor<l
Quevedo, Francisco
Quigley, George Frederick
Ralston, Henry James
Ramacciotti, Hugo Francie
Raubinger, William John
Rednall, William Walter
Reichling, Albert Henry
Rice, Richard Jam es
Richards, Jamee Symmes
Rietzke, Gustave Charles
Rouse, Austin Dwight
Sanford, Wimburn Laurie
Scheerer, Joseph
Schetzel, Adolph Georg
Schmidt, Edwin Valentine
Schmidt, Henry Claus
Schroepfer, Alb.er.t
Scott, George
Scott, Hora ce Van Aredale
S.cull, Charles
Shainwald, Herman
Sharp, William Enfield
Shartzer, Thomas Farrington
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan
Skinkle, Almeron
Smith, Charles Robert

ROSTER
Smith, Baldor
Smith, Robert Masson
Southard, · Albert Burley
Sparrowe, Thomas William
Specht, Charles
Spencer, Franklin Morse .
Spengler, Edward Philip
Staley, Robert 'l'ilghman
Steele, Walter Bert
Stephens, James Alex.
Sties, George Reid
Stockfleth, John
Stofen, John Jacob, P. Id.
Strachan, John Ernest
Stratford, Harry James
Stromberg, Bernard Fritho1f
Stromberg, Edwin Allen
Stroud, John Rodgers
Sturken, Fabian Henry
Sumner, Frank William
Suydam, James Hobart
Taber, Charles Wesley
Taylor, George McClellan
Taylor, Henry
Terry, Wallace Irving
Tiffany, William Zobel
Tolman, Rufus Jenkins .
Tomlinson, Richard Frank
Trittenbach, Emil
Turner, Howard
Umbsen, Gustave Henry
Van Schaick, Frank Chester
Veeder, Herman Greig
Veeder, Howard Potter
Von Bonin, Carl
Von Hartwig, Carl
Walbey, Reginald Walter
Walker, Thomas Dawson
Walkup, H erbert Lealand
Walkup, Ward Gale
Wallace, James Sanderson
Walters, Edward Charles
Wanstall, Wm. Binney
Ward, Charles Herbert
Wear, Norman Henry

ROSTER
Weber, John
Wieeenhaven, Henry Herman
Webster, Walter Byron
Williams, Harry de Nell
Welch, Willard Choate
Williams, Joseph Rickard
Wenzelburger, Chas. Wm. Augustus Wilson, Charles Harold
Wenzelburger, Emil
Wilson, Joseph Lewis
Werner, Carl
Wilson, Thomas Chamberlain
Westphal, Christian Henry
Wolfe, Clarence Navarre
Westphal, Edward William
Wood, Benjamin Milfred
Westphal, Henry William
Wood, Charles Michael
Westphal, Otto Frank, P. M.
Woode, Henry Frank
Wetmore, John Griffeth
Wright, Francie Finelon H.
Whirlow, Herman Francis
Wynn, John Edward
White, Majer John
Young, Clarence Ea ton
White, Thomas Raymond
Zett, George John
Whitelaw, Henry William
Zipf, Albert Ferdinand
Wiegel, Louis Henry

241

-399

WITHDRAWN:
Belcher, William Johnson
Berry, De Los Tracy
Fisher, William

Ralph, James Dav ison
Tibbitts, Francis Albert
Van Schaick, Roynane Huntsman

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gruenhagen, Charles Henry
Tait, William Cove '
DIED:
Ammerup, Gottlieb Adolph
Bryan, Cha rles Henry

Cluff, William
Hemenway, Sylvester Washington
Irving, Alexander

ALAMEDA L0DGE, No. x67.
Centerville, Alamed& County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.OFFICERS:
Arthur W ebster Haley, Master,
Philip Austin Ellis, Chaplain,
Newark, Cal.
James Bayard Chamberlain, S . Dea.,
Elmo Miller Grimmer, S. Warden, Elon Arwin Ormsby, Jun. Deacon,
Frank Benjamin Hartman, l. Ward., Abbott Sattherwaite, Marshal,
Peter Christian Hansen, Treasurer, Walter Lucien Richards, Steward,
Arthur Theodore Biddle, Secretary, Henry Centenial Searles, Steward
Newark, Cal.
Louis M. Juhl, Tyler.
'
16

242

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Grimmer, Elmo Miller
Ames, Alden Thayer
Hansen, Peter Christian
Anderson, Longworth S.
Haley, Arthur Webster
Babb, Eugene Nathaniel, P . M .
Haley, William Wallace
Basler, Henry .Ernest
Hamilton, Leslie Mab
Beebe, George A.
Hare, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Biddle, Arthur Theo.
Hartman, Frank Benjamin
Blacow, John Robert
Hellwig, George Peter
Blacow, Richard Deering
Horner, Charles Frederick
Blacow, Robert Adolpheus
Huxley, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Blair, Thomae Henry
·
Ismert,
Edwin Julius
Brewer, Jamee Morrie
Irvine, Robert
Brisacker, Leo
Jackson, Harry William
Brown, Barton Alva
Jacobus, Julian Edgar
Brown, Samuel Franklin
Juhl, Louis Martin
Chamberlin, James Bayard
Kirk, Willard Bruff
Clegg, John
Lang, Ernest George
Cockefair, Charles Parson
Lebrecht; Adolph
Cushman, Douglass
Lowrie, John Charles Frederick
Colby, Herbert Eugene
Martenstein, Clarence Edward
Coney, Jacob Alexander
May, Henry
Crosby, Henry
McLeod, Jamee M.
Dilliard, Caleb Irwin
MeKeown, James
Dixon, Mathew William
Mickle, Benjamin Christin
Durham, Judge Haley
Mills, J arnee H.
Eaton, Due Bois
Morrison, Perry
Ehrman, Solomon
Mortimer, Frank
Ehrman, Alfred
Mowry, Joseph ChPney
Ellis, Phillip Austin
Moyer, Reuben Oliver
Eggers, Louis Herman
Norris, Albert, P. M.
Emerson, Henry Wyle, P. M.
Ormsby, Elon Arwin
Evans, Charles, P. M.
Overacker, Charles Bernard
Farley, Newton Seymour
Patterson,
Henry Hawley
Finn, Alexander
Peterson, William Beadford
Ford, William Henry
Plourde, Prosper
Ford, Henry Darneal
Ralph, Ivan Bernett
Fischer, George Cresent
Richards, Walter Lucian
Granger, Farley Benjamin, P. M.
Richmond, Ralph Vanderpeer
Grau, Edward Arnold, P. M.
Robbins, Jesse Jerome
Graham, Clarence Ray
Robie, Walt.er Starr
Graham, George Edward
Runckel, Christian,
Graham, Wensel Cushin
Salz, Clarenc.e Ferdinand
Green, Harry Beck
Salz, Sigmund
Gregory, George L.

Satterthwait, Abbott, P. M.
Searles, Harry Centenial
Silva, Manuel Francisco
Snyder, William Harrison
Southwick, Oliver Lyman, P. M.
Spencer, James Albert
Stanley, James
Stinhilver, George Elmer
Stormer, Fred Arly
Sullivan, George Frazier

243

Symon, James Charles
Vollmer, Rudolph, P. M.
Walton, George Edward Parsons
Werner, Edward Peter
Whipple, Edwin, P. M.
Whipple, Jamee Ray
Whitfield, Albert Arthur
Wills, Clarence A.
Wright, George Whitfield, P. M.
-105

WITHDRAWN:
McKenna, Fergus

Burt, James Frederick

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kientz, Edward Blaine

Walton, John Franklin

DIED:
Williams, George Henry

REDWOOD CITY LODGE. No. 168.
Redwood City, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fmi. Moon.
OFFICERS:

Edward H. V. Hoenck, Master,
David Montgomery Crabtree, Chap.,
Redwood City, Cal.
Otis Mills Carrington, S en. Deacon,
George William McNulty, S . Ward., Ben Charles Zimmerman, Jun. Deac.,
William Henry Kelso, Junior Ward., James Jay Rogers, Marshal,
Ludwig Phillip Behrens, Treasurer, George Henry Leary Steward
John Edward Harris, Secretary,
Charles Jacobus, St~ard,
'
Redwood City, Cal.
John Watkin Glennan, Tyler.

Andreen, Nile Andy
Baird, Earl Demorest
Baldwin, George Page
Barrett, Richard Watte
Bartlett, Frank Tabor
Bassetti, Antonio
Beeger, Carl Christian
Behrens, Ludwig Philip
Blomquist, Alfred George

MEMBERS:
Boicelli, Daniel
Boicelli, Victor
Breeze, James Pattison
Brown, Robert
Crabtree, David Montgomery
Carrington, Otis Mills
Chamberlain, P. Peregreen, P. M.
Chilcott, Richard Frederic, P. M.
Cloud, Roy Walter, P. M.

244

ROSTER

Marcus, Henry
Conover, John Simpson
Mathiesen, Boh
Cook, Alonzo
Mautz, Robert William
Cowgill, John Emory
McCrea, Samuel Pressley
Crowell, William Albert
· McKenzie, Donald
Dearborn, Harry Emmons
McNair, John
Dearborn, Henry
McNulty, George William
Dobbel, Charles Henry Louis
McPherson, John Andrew
Eckhart, Charles Herman
Muller, Carl
Einstein, Gabriel
Moberry, Leonard Albert
ElVi.n, Ferdinand
Mosher, Albert Hiram
Emmett, Walter Alfred
Mullen, Lester Edward
Ensor, James Ellis, P. M.
Murray, Kenneth Sinclair
Fox, Edwin Benton
Nathhorst, Charles Enfried
Fox, Philip Benton
Neal, George Albert
Fulton, Albert Leonidas
Neal, Malcolm Allen
Gillespie, James
Nelson, John Arvid
Glennan, Frederick Watkins
Neuman, James Vincent
Glennan, John Watkin
Nicholson, Ludvig
Goodspeed, Isaac Roscoe
Nielson, Knud Kristian
Harris, John Edward
Orton, Wellington Eugene
Haseler, Henry
Otzen, Lorenz
Hayward, Clarence Decatur
Peers, Alex.
Headley, William
Pipkin, James Marion
Heiner, Harold Otto
Pipkin, William Henry
Heiner, Lawrence Andrew
Poole, John
Hexner, Louis
Poole, John Wesley, P. M.
Hextrom, Charles August
Ralston, John Thurston
Heydenfeldt, Thomas O., P. M.
Ramey, William Henry
Hoenck, Edward H. V.
Ramsay, Thomas Henry
Hoffman, Carl Paul M.
Rice, Thomas Clark
HoldAn, Gl!orire Wa1cott
Rich, Charles Robert
Holmquist, Rudolph Carl
Robertson, Charles David
Honn, Edward Everett
Rogers, James Jay
Jac.obus, Charles
Rohr, Barthold Charles
Joyce, William Holland
Ross, George Carlos
Kelso, William Henry
Ross, Joseph Louis
Kempster, James William H.
Ross, Lee Thornton
Kreiss, George Augustus
Landscheit, Charles George, P. M. Rumbol, Richard Foyster
Ryan, Alexander
Leary, George Henry
Ryan, Mark E.
Lipp, William Henry
Saun lers, Benjamin Rankin
Look, William ClarencA
Sears, Horace Holmes
Lowe, Julius William, P. M.
Seba.stiana, Salvatore
Mansfield, Joel Henry
Steinberger, Henry
MacBain, John

ROSTER
Stevenson, Howard Griffith
Stewart, William Baker
Swanson, Carl
Swart, Franklin
Towne, Frank Kendall, P. M.

Bacon, Willard Wilson

245

Werder, Ernest Henry, P. M.
Williams, Donald Warren
Yount, George Henry
Zimmerman, Ben Charles
-117

WITHDRAWN:
•Locklin, Curtis Brockway

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hillebrand, Henry
. DIED:
Crowe, James
•Restored during the year.

MISSION LODGE, No. 169.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Wednesday in each montll
2668 Mission Street.
OFFICERS:
Otto Louis Sues, Master,
Lew Edward Wallace, Sen. Deacon,
Room 204, P. 0 . Bldg.
William Henry Worden, J. Deacon,
Eugene Bartlet Hallett, S . Warden, Henry James Trowbridge, Marshal,
Thomas Ingles James, J. Warden, Frank Herman Mattern, Steward,
George William Lunt, Treasurer,
William Conrad Strickler, Steward,
Frank Wesley Smith, Secretary,
James Edward Parmelee, Tyler.
2668 Mission Street.
Aikins, Thomas George
Aitchison, William John
Allan, Robert Edward, P. M.
Allan, Thomas John
Allen, Arthur Dencel
Allen, Richard Spicer, P. M.
Allen, Waldo Frederick
Allen, William James
Amy, Winfield Scott
Anderson, Charles Rudolph
Anderson, Edward Walter

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Elmer Warner
Anderson, Isaac
Anderson, Jonathan
Andrews, John
Andrews, Marine Axel
Antonsen, Hans
Arata, Mario Frank
Arnberger, Richard Claus
Arnold, Harry Brown
Arthur, James Lemuel
Astrup, Hagen Frederick

ROSTER
Atkinson, George Frederick
Ayres, William Wallace
Badgley, Gilbert Benjamin
Badgley, Gilbert Lawson
Ballinger, Fred Sessions
Barker, Joseph
Barlow, William George
Barnes, William Wallace
Barz, Frederick Carl
Basney, Virgil Fyler
Bates, William Edwin
Bean, Herbert David
Beatty, Edwin Robert
Becht, George Joseph
Beck, Adam
Becker, George Ernest
Beede, Stephen McDonald
Beicke, Louis John Emil
Bell, Landon Attfield
Bemiss, Lincoln Edward
Benedict, Amos William
Benedict, Charles Edward
Benedict, James Seymour
Benner, Emerson Ozias
Bennett, John Joseph
Berg, George Charles
Berg, Isaac
Berger, William Joseph
Berry, George Marion
Bettancourt, John Franklin
Beverly, Edward Howard
Bigelow, Edwin Wells
Billings, David Wm.
Bishop, Frank Bryant
Bishop, Sherman Augustus, P. M.
Bitley, Frank William
Black, Edwin Crane
Black, William
Blackburn, William Henry
Blackshaw, Joseph Benjamin
Bloomer, Samuel Merritt
Bodie, Harry William
Boelen, William Charles
Bolander, Louis Phillip, Jr.
Boradt, William

Boyles, Edgar Amos
Brace, Nathan
Bragg, Frank
Brandon, Frederick Duke
Brandtjen, John Charles
Brann, Harry Harding
liray, Chester Arthur
Bray, Nelson Hudison
Breitenstein, Edmund Ed. Wm.
Brewer, Frederick Adolph
Brewer, Frederick Irving
Brier!ey, William Henry
Brizard, Maxime John
Broad, Edward James
Brockmann, George Robert
Brodek, Robert Tuch
Brookover, Joseph Cochran
Brooks, Alpheus Baxter
Brooks, Orion
.Brown, Clive Augustus
Brown, Daniel Davis
Brown, Herbert Wills
Browne, Robert Daniel
Bruns, Henry Frederick
Bunker, Charles Dimmock
Bunker, Henry Chase, P. M.
Burg, Carl Henry
BurgeBB, Cornelius Simmonds
BurgeBB, Joseph Edward
Burgren, Arthur William
Burness, John Elder
BumeBB, Robert Duke
Burroughs, Charles Rickertson
Butler, Alfred John
Butler, John Alfred
Butte, Paul Charles
Butterfield, William Abram
Button, Asa Phineas
· Cadwallader, Rawlins
Caldwell, George Herbert
Caldwell, George Phillips
Cameron, Dudley Alfred
Campbell, Donald R.
Campbell, John Malcolm
Cardinell, John Douglass

ROSTER
Carnall, Henry:
Carren, John Thomas
Carson, Edwin Beatty
Center, Hugh
Chamberlain, Samuel Lewis
Chapin, George Edward
Chapman, Robert Henry
Chat)lam, William
Chorley, Ross Robertson
Christenson, Andrew, P. M.
Christian, James Allen
Christiansen, Ernst Wm. Charle1
Christiansen, Jens
Clare, Robert Moffitt, P. M.
Clark, Alfred
Clark, Frank Emerson
Clark, Joseph Edmund
Clark, Milton Sutton
Claussen, Gustave Frederick
Clay, Wade Hampton
Clough, Charles Andres
Cobb, William Henry, P. M.
Coburn, Charles Edward
Coffin, Dewey
Coiner, Oscar Christian
Colea, Harrison Palmer
Collins, Thomas Cahall
Condon, Michael Daniel
Cook, Donald
Cooke, Archibald
Cooper, Arthur William
Cooper, Herbert Henry
Cordes, William Frederick
Corrie, Ruby Ray
Coulter, Robert Ashford
Couper, Edgar Ward
Courtright, William Leander
Cousina, Richard Joseph
Cox, John Hadden
Cox, Palmer, P. M.
Crane, William Henry
Creigh, Edward Norton
Crichton, John Lithgow
Crim, William Henry, Jr.
Cropley, Mnrshall Freeman

Crosett, Edward Franklin, P. M.
Cruden, John
Curnow, George Livingston
Currie, John Stewart
Currie, Robert, Jr.
Curtis, John Morrison
Cuthbertson, George Waahington
Daggett, Harry Mayhew
Daly, John Donald
Daly, Samuel Joseph
Damuth, Wilbur Civill
Danielson, Gustaf
Davenport, Reginald Arthur
Davies, David Caradoc
Davies, Thomas Abraham
Davis, Carlton Newman
Davison, William Henry
Day, Charles Austin, P. M.
Day, Donald William
Day, Henry Lucas
Dean, Corbet George
Dean, Francis
Deemer, John Franklin, P. M.
De Guerre, Wade Hampton
De Langton, George Handy
DeLano, Willie Winfry
Dentz, Eugene Nicholas
Dethlefsen, Nicolai Friedrich
Dettmers, George
de Winton, Wm. Wilkens, P . M.
Diederich, August
Diserens, Frederick
Dodd, Milton Franklin
Dodd, Robert William
Doen, George
Dominguez, Richard Arthur
Donaldson, Robert
Dorsey, Gilbert Maxwell
Dorward, George Dunn
Douglass, William
Dowle, William Godfrey
Doyle, Charles Davia
Draffin, William Henry
Driefer, Conrad Ludolf
Dunbar, Hubbard Foster

247

248
Duncan, James Hepburn
Duncan, Robert L.
Dunn, Edward Thomas
Duperu, William Alphonse
Dyer, Emerson Crocker
Dyer, Richard William
Eastman, Edward Ferry
Eastman, George Mason
Eastwood, Charles Archibald
Eaton, John William, P. M.
Ede, William
Edmondson, George Lewi~
Edwards, John Henry
Edwards, William
Efford, Robert James
Elam, Grover Cleveland
Elam, Thomas
Elder, Robert
Ellinger, Charles Georg Gustaf
Ellis, Arthur Clarence
Emmons, Joseph Engle
English, George Edward
English, John Francia
Ettler, John Adolph
Evans, Chester Hepburn
Evans, Chester Willard
Evans, George Herbert
Ewen, Andrew
Fahrenholz, Frederick William
Fairchild, Willard Wilson
Fairfield, Herbert Marshall
Fairfield, Marshall
Fairfield, Marshall Joseph
Falconer, John
Falkenstein, Christian Jacob
Farless, Ashley Rhines
Farrell, William
Fell, Thomas
Ferrier, George Washingtou
Fetter, Frank Culin
Fisher, Charles Emmons
Flack, James Maurice
Flack, William Malen
Fletcher, William Thomas
Fluth, John Henry

ROSTER
Forbes, Theodore Henry
Ford, William
Forrest, .l!:dwin
Forrest, Thomas Wint Weir
Forrest, William Irwin
Forsyth, Thomas Walter
Fortune, James Alexander
Fossey, Harry Edwil).
Foster, George Lewis
Frahm, Claus
Frahm, Henry Thomas
Frantz, Clarence Sherman
Fredericks, William Godfrey
French, Edward James
Freyermuth, Otto George
Fricke, John William
Gage, Archie Leslie
Gage, Charles Leslie
Gaines, Rufus Henry
Gallagher, Robert Ferra!
Gardiner, Alexander Smith
Gardner, Fredric Archie
Gatley, John
Gatley, Richard Henry
Gee, William Stokes
Gelston, Hollister
Genesy, Walter Alexander
Gentle, William Frederick
Aeorge, Anson Northrup
George, Clarence Farmer
George, William Henry
Gercke, William John
Gesford, Henry Clay
Gibson, Ernest Jewett
Gibson, William Walker
Gilbert, Ernest Joseph
Gilbert, Frank L.
Gilley, Curtiss Noble
Gilson, John Edward
Ginty, Eugene Mabury
, Gitsham, Charles
Gladwin, Geo. Archer
Goode, Walter Thomas
Goodfellow, Summerfield Isaiah
Goodwin, Wm. Lincoln·

ROSTER
Gordon, Robert
Gosliner, Harry Benjamin
Graf, Fredric Oscar
Granieher, Walter August Herman
Grantland, John
Gray, James Alfred
Green, Morris
Greenwood, Joseph Theo.
Gregg, William Stopher
Griffith, William
Grotefend, Charles William
Gummow, Leon LeRoy
Gunderson, Thomas
Gunn, Alfred Scott
Gunnison, Albert Warren
Gunnison, Frank Sawyer
Haines, Samuel Newell
Hale, Charles Everett
Hale, Charles Rector
Hale, Frank Orrin
Halket, William Duncan
Hall, Henry, P. M.
Hall, James Robert
Hallett, Eugene Bartlet
Hallgren, Fred
Hallquist, Philip
Halsted, John Bernard
Haman, Henry
Hambly, Harry Bishop
Hammer, Lars John
Handman, Theodore
Hansell, Calvin Emerick
Hansen, Christian Winehler
Hansen, George
Hansen, Theodore Peter
Harper, Deliph Russell
Harries, .Tames
Haslehurst, William W allal'e
Hatch, Francis Oliver
Hatch, Herbert Locy
Haughton, John William
Haussler, Gustavus Adolphu1
Hawksley, Alexander
Hayselden, Percy James
Hazlett, James

Hazlett, John, P. M.
Headrick, Andrew Johnson
Heatlie, William Charles
Hedges, Joseph Wharton
Hellwig, Karl Frederick H. 0.
Hemminga, Harvey John
Henn, Theodore Edwin
Henry, Robert Allan
Hepburn, John
Herring, Richard, P. :M.
Hesse, Edwin Ellsworth
Hetzer, Henry August
Hickie, Peter William
Hicfield, Alfred Thomas
Higgins, Robert
Hildebrand, William Charles
Bilder, Louis
Hill, William
Hillman, John Edward
Hillman, John Reuben, P. :M.
Hilton, Franklin Charles
Hineelot, Stanley Ferdinand
Hind, George Urwin
Hoag, Jonathan Kittridge
Hoek, Henry
Hock, Henry Tobias
Hoertkorn, Charles Albert
Hohfeld, Clarence Henry
Holladay, Terry Bruness
Holland, Frank Stuart
Holloway, Albert Eugene
Holton, Albert Marion
Hooper, John Milton
Hopkins, John Louis
Horton, Charles Coates
Hougaard, William Frederick
Howe, William Dikeman
Howell, Josiah Rowland
Hoyle, Albert
Hulse, David Andrew
Hummel, George William
Hursh, Loren Leigh
Hursh, Ray Leslie
Hurst, Jo"'rederiek Joseph
Husar, Christian

249

250
Hussey, Wallace Maxwell
Hutt, Harry John
Ingersoll, John Francis
Inman, Thomas George
Ireland, Elvie Levan
Ireland, Thomas Wilson
Irwin, Charles Milton
Jacks, Henry
Jackson, Charles Hooper
Jackson, John Quincy
Jager, George
Jager, Will Phillip
Jagger, Henry Corbett
Jamieson, Andrew
Janes, Thomas Inglis
Janes, William Henry
Jenkins, William McDonald
Johnson, August
Johnson, Charles Thorwald
Johnson, Edward Charles
Johnson, Olaf
Johnston, George
Johnston, George Alexander
Johnston, John Harvey
Jones, Edward Thomas
Jones, Frederick Charles
Jones, Hu
Jones, John Bates
Jones, John Edmund
Jones, John Richard
Jones, Osgood Keener
Jones, Samuel A.
Jones, Thomas
Jones, William Franklin
Jones, William Gustus
Jordan, William Henry
Jose, Ricardo Juan
Juel, Adolph Oliver
Kage, Henry Robert
Kanzee, Arthur
Kanzee, Austin
Kellie, Charles
Kenne, Frank George
Kern, Louis Adolph
Kern, Raymond Lewis

ROSTER
Kerr, Charles
Kessen, James Morton
Keyser, Paul
Keyston, James Woods
Keyston, James Woods, Jr.
Keyston, Samuel Albert
Keyston, William Donald
Kight, David Mooreland
Killgore, Edwin Read
Killgore, Robert Read
King, Dennis Wyckoff
King, John Watt
King, William Riddick
Kingsland, George Robert
Kinnear, Charles Albert
Kirby, Maxwell
Klein, John Mathias
Klose, Emil Adolph
Kneass, Edward Daniel
Konrad, Joseph Leopold
Kornbeck, Christian Hansen
Koshnitzki, John Frederick Charis
Kranz, Hermann
Kreisel, Edward
Kress, Augustus Herman
Krug, Peter John
Kruse, Louis Frank
Kuhl, Max John
Kuhl, William Frederick
Kyle, Edwin Louis
Lamont, William
Land, George Burton
Lane, Mark Graham
Lang, Austin W enzlick
Lange, Ernest Adolph
J,anglois, Francis Bernard
Larimer, Elmer Forrest
Larsen, Christian Thorwald
Larsen, Theodor
Lawrence, Otto Maurice
Leider, Albert Christian Fled 'k
Leland, Harry Everrett, P. M.
Levensaler, Joseph Gillchrest
Lewis, Charles Francisca
Lewis, Sidney Knowles

ROSTER
Libby, Charles Frederic, 'P. M.
Lieb, Henry Melville
Liebenow, Herman Carl
Linderman, Samuel Williard
Lindley, William Purdy
Lindsey, Douglas
Lindstrom, John Francis
Little, Archibald Dunlap
Lord, Frank
Lothrop, Arthur Baxter
Love, Charles Allen
Lowrie, John Morrison
Lowry, Herbert Gay
J,uce, John Francis
Luce, Samuel Andrew
Lundin, Anders
Lunt, George William, P. M.
Lunt, William Moore
Lutley, Edward
Lyon, Walter Seth
MacDonald, Lincoln Duncan
Mackenzie, Allister
Madden, Edward Ernest
Madsen, Jens Antoni
Malcomson, Thomas
Mangelsdorf, Willy
Mann, Patrick James
Mansfield, Charles
Mannel, George Frederick
Marchant, Herbert Ewart
Markey, Harry Shaffer
Marsh, John Alfred
Marshall, Charles
Marston, Frank Wheeler
Martin, Clifford Camm
Martin, George Wilbur
Martin, James Lytle
Martin, Samuel
Marx, Otto Frederick
Mason, Frank
Mathews, George Monroe
Mathis, Jacob Lenhardt
Mattern, Frank Herman
Mattern, Henry John
Matthews, Willie S.

Mau, Charles Albert
Maundrell, Harry
Maundrell, Harold Hugh
Maundrell, Malcolm Daniel
Maurer, William Center
May, Fulton Hugh
McAllister, Richard Victor
McCall, William
McCarty, James
McCook, James
McCormick, William Whipple
McCoy, Frank Edwin
McCracken, John Wesley
McDaniel, William Henry
McDonald, John Glen
McDonald, Wallace Sinclair
McGilvray, John Duff, Jr.
McGregor, William
Mcintosh, John Frazer
McKee, Charles Dunlap
McKenzie, Albert William
McKenzie, Colin Mortimer
McKenzie, Wesley
McKillop, William John
McKnew, Henry Lee
McLachl•n, Thomas Mitchell
McLagan, Charles
McLaren, Archibald Rowan
McNair, Andrew
McNoble, Emery Lewis
Meaney, Lewis Philip ·
Mecredy, Frederick Albert
Mecredy, John
Meinhardt, Will
Melendy, Harry Whaites
Mennie, Alexander
Mervy, Edward Thomas
Miller, John Alexander
Miller, John E;dward Adolphus
Miller, John Thompson
Miller, John Wallace
Miller, Oscar Ewell
Miller, Robert Notman
Miller, William (1)
Miller, William (2)

251

252

Mirk, Thomas
Mitchell, William Henry
Mobbs, Robert Byron G.
Mocine, John Calvin
Moenning, Milton Gunther
Mohr, Henry Anton
Moore, John Cutler
Moore, William Hiland
Moore, William Wallace, P. M.
Moran, Allan Garfield
Morgan, Dayton Henry
Mori, Emille Daniel
Morton, Charles Caylor
Mothander, John Johnson
Morton, Henry Elrington
Moulthrop, Howland King
Moulthrop, Willy Howard
Muller, George Edward
Munck, Charles Emil
Munro, Henry
.Munroe, Theodore Francie
Murray, Oliver Perry
Murray, Percy Victor
Murray, Robert
Murray, Walter Charles
Murray, Warren Edwards
Musgrave, Henry John
Nahhas, Fred
Neal, William
Nelson, Henry Severen
Nelson, John Archibald
Nelson, Louis
Nelson, Nels Lawrence
Newman, Jerome
Nicol, Walter Dair
Nicolai, Charles John
Nielsen, Niels Andersen
Nilson, Brown Oscar
Norris, Joseph Kenny
Nuhrenberg, Martin Jurgen
Nutter, Joseph Lyman
Oehne, Frederick
Oeverndiek, Frederick Charle•
Ogden, Benjamin Franklin
Ogden, Charles Roy

ROSTER

ROSTER
Ogden, George Henry
0 'Keefe, Jeremiah
Ollrich, John Frederick
Olsen, John Jacobsen
Olsen, .John Jacobsen, Jr.
Olsen, William Christensen
Olson, John
Onslow, Frank
Ordway, William Chase, P. M.
Osborn, Wilfred John
Osgood, Henry Benjamin
Owen, William Lunt
Padgett, William Thomas
Page, J. Murray
Palmer, John Henry
Park, AleL Dewar
Park, William Henry
Parmelee, Chauncey Albertus
Parmelee, Jamee Edward
Paterson, William
Patten, Henry
Peabody, Edward
Peabody, Robert Austin
Peck, Carl Wilhelm
Peck, Walter Lawrence
Peltret, Peter Glode
Pennington, Thomas Edwin
Percival, Elijah
Periam, Charles James
Perkins, George Russell
Perkins, Raymond Pearson
Perry, John
Perry, John Wilson
Petersen, Hans
Petersen, Hans Lausten
Petersen, Niels Mason
Peterson, Andrew
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Pettersen, Axel Hagbarth
Pfaeffle, Henry Gottlieb
Pfingst, Ferdinand Louie
Phelps, George Wesley
Philip, Adrian Sickles, P. M.
Phillips, George Joseph
Phillips, William

Pierson, Bernhard
Pinkerton, Samuel
Piper, Stephen Livingston
Plath, Hans
Poar, Charles Burnett
Poch, Charles Emil
Pope, Jamee Bond
Porter, George Keith
Potter, Edwin Segsworth
Powell, Frank Vinton
Prahl, Gustave Joseph
Pratt, Charles Henry Sinclair
Price, Ross 0 'Brien
Prince, Henry Gilman
Prior, John Stanley
Quellmalz, Fred
Quinlan, Jamee Henry
Read, Richard Arthur
Read, William James
Reed, Walter Norman
Reich, Frederick William
Reid, Archibald
Reid, John Miller
Reid, William Henry
Reigle, Henry Herfert
Reinecke, Alfred Walter
Renwick, Myron Hatch, P. M.
Richardson, Clifton Page
Rickard, Richard Penrose
Robert, Chesley John
Roberts, Oliver
Robinson, George
Robinson, Seymour Heman
Rogers, William Clement
Rogers, Charles Sumner
Rolph, Ronald Taylor
Rosich, Nicholas Charles
Roeland, Oscar Paulsen
Ross, Walter Gordon
Rowe, Purcell
Ruckstell, John Rudolph
Rudy, Benjamin Mylin
Saffold, Ray Phillips
Sanborn, Irving Howard
Saul, Eugene Carroll

Saunders, Frederick
Sawdon, Thomas Thompson
Sayles, Harry Albert
Schmitt, Henry Clay
Schott, Carl Conrad
Schrader, Edwin William
Schrader, Otto
&hramm, Carl Christopher F.
Schnlz, Paul
Schwarzmann, Ed. Gustave
s,iott, Edwin George
Scott, George Booth
Sears, Harry Dickson
Seaver, Fred Dan
Seel, Ernest
Severance, Isaac Hillman
Sewell, Daniel Robert
Shafer, Frank Ellsworth
Shaver, Hamilton Elijah
Shephard, Bertram Charles
Shephard, Bertram Holmes Dcug.
Shephard, Vernon Charles D.
Siemers, John Diedrich
Sigler, John D.
Silovich, John
Silvia, Michael
Smith, David Charles
Smith, Frank Wesley
Smith, I saac Henry
Smith, James (1)
Smith, James (2)
Smith, William Alvord
Smith, William Irving
Smith, William Thomas
Snell, Frank Scott
Somers, Frank Alton
Spadoni, J oeeph
Spear, Lewis Eugene
Spence, Alex.
Starbird, Ralph
Stark, Charles
Statham, William Mathe'"
Steedman, John Arkley
Steere, Jesse Edmund
Steinmann, Frederick Adolph

253

254
Stephenson, William
Stevenson, John
Stewart, Charles Enoch
Stewart, James Emsley
Stewart, Otho
Stewart, William Harley
Stidston, Archibald Wakeham
Stile, Henry David
Stone, John Thomas
Stone, Wilbert H.
Strickler, John Conrad
Strickler, William Conrad
Sturgess, Charles William
Sues, Otto Louis
Sullivan, William Charles
Summerhayes, William Uuggle11
Swenson, John Augustus
Sykes, Frank Centennius
Tabrett, Henry Charles
Tatham, Richmond
Taylor, Charles Herbert
Taylor, Fred William
Taylor, George Howes
Terbush, George Finchly
Theller, George Platt
Thomas, Arthur Frederick
Thomas, ·Edward Henry
Thomas, Frederick G.
Thomas, Henry Jerome
Thompson, Bernard
Thompson, Charles J efkins
Thompson, Cranch
Thompson, George
Thompson, Hans
Thompson, John, P. M.
Thompson, Thornton
Thompson, Vernon Clifford
Thompson, William Archie
Thompson, Wm. Henry
Thomsen, Einar Tonnessen
Thomsen, Oscar Ludwig
Thomson, Alfred George
Thomson, James Milo
Thomson, Samuel Mehaffy
Thorp, Clement Barton

ROSTER
'l'horp, Henry Walker
'l'hrall, Frank Hurshall, P. M.
Tietje, Ernest Henry
Tietjen, John Edward
Timbrel, John Benjamin
Titchworth, Charles Canfield
Todd, Oliver Julian
'l'olley, William Edward
Treadwell, Edward Franci!I
Trowbridge, Henry James
Troyer, Roderic Arthur
Truman, Irwin Joseph, Jr.
Tucker, Edwin War ..•m, P. M.
Tucker, Edwin WarrPn, Jr.
Turbitt, William Alexander
Turnbull, Albert Carlyle
Tyler, Thomas
Vanatta, ·Frank Tuller
Van Buren, George Martin
Van Orden, Charles Howard
Van Orden, George N ewins
Varney, Frank Hastings
Varney, John Warner, Jr.
Varney, Kit Roberts
Vecki, Marion
Voight, George Fritz
Vorrath, Henry Albert
Von W erthern, Henry
Voorhies, Cyrus Firman
Voorhies, Harry
Voy, Winfield Scott
Wagner, Edward Ludwig
Wahl, Robert Gottfried
Waldau, Christian
Wallace, Albert William
Wallace, Lew Edward
Wallace, Robert
Wallace, William
Walter, Henry
Warren, Frederick Melville
Watson, John Gibson
Watson, Sage
Watson, William Walter
Weaver, Hammond Shipley
Webster, George Albert

ROSTER
Welch, Herbert Warren
Weld, Charles Wallace
Wellington, ueorge Henry
Welton, John William
West, George Washington
West, John
West, John Charles
West, Joseph Daniel
Westaway, William Charles
Weston, John Arthur
Westwater, Andrew
Wetmore, William Brown
W eule, Ernest Louis
Whitaker, George Everard
White, Arthur Erwin
White, Arthur Harry
White, Charles Harry
White, William Harrison
Whittaker, Alfred James
Whorf, Frederick Ellsworth
Whyte, Malcolm Crawford
Wiedenbeck, George
Wildenradt, Herbert Louis

Wilhelm, John Henry
Williamson, Edwin L.
Wilson, G. Hazelton
Wilson, George Hazelton
Wilson, Henry Adams
Wilson, James Andrew, P. M.
Wilson, John
Wilson, Raymond Edgar
Winkel, George
Winter, Morris Jacob, Jr.
Winzler, Alfred Charles
Wobber, Herman
Wood, John
Woodman, Ernest Deadrick
Woods, Robert
Worden, William Henry
Yearing, John Thomas
Young, John James
Young, Lyman Foster
Zeisel, Louis John
Ziegler, Charles Louis
Zillmer, Adolph Louis William
Zollner, William Adolph
-878

WITHDRAWN:
Brockmann, Henry Frederick Wm. McClinton, Myron Giles
Bolfing, Arthur John
Smith, Frank Joseph
Haight, Louis Montrose
Wagstaff, Denman Sully
Lawrence, James
Weigel, Joel
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Daywalt, George Washington
O'Brien, William Lawrence
Greenfield, Charles Edward
Roberts, Marshall Calloway
Hansen, Edward Paul
Siskron, Charles Alfred
Hargraves, Herbert Ellery
Thoma3, Philip Matson
Watson, Sidney
Ball, Thaddeus
Boysen, Edward Constantine
Conway, George
Hanson, George Franklin
Hitzeroth, Loreng Davenport
Holmes, Clarence Rawson
Johnson, Lucian Field
Keller, James Edwin

255

DIED:
Meaney, Lewis Joseph
Patterson, George William Hill
Payne, Noah
Rodecker, Elias
Taylor, Martin Van Buren
Trevivi<ik, William George
Wagner, Ada~
Wolfe, Edward

256

ROSTER

ELK GROVE LODGE, No. 173.
Elk Grove, Sacramento Co1mty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

ROSTER
Trueblood, Edward Ellsworth
Ulman, Frederick George
Walther, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Watson, Albert Henry, P. M.
Watson, George Franklin

OFFICERS:

Hugh Beattie, Senior Deacon,
Andrew Elliott, Master,
Elk Grove, Cal.
Thomas Lukin Conrad, Jun. Deacon,
Stanley Robinson Gage, S. Warden, Aubrey Maurice Leavitt, Marshal,
Clarence Lee Martin, Steward,
Claud Duval Tribble, J. Warden,
William Thomas Stephenson, Treas., Charles Homer Cooper, Steward,
George Shaw Williamson, Secretary, Edward Laidley Gerrish, Tyler.
Elk Grove, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Jordan, Daniel Obediah
Alltucker, George Henry
Kelley, James Monroe
Alltucker, John Ray
Korn, Joseph, P. M.
Barry, Edmund Edward
Lewis, Edmund William
Beattie, Hugh
Leimback, John Herbert
Boothe, Newton
Leavitt, Aubrey Maurice, P. M.
Bradford, George Bruce, P. M.
Leavitt, Albert Fletcher
Brad.ford, Hugh Barr, P. M.
Mahone, Robert Henry
Brad.ford, Pearley Kilbourn, P. M.
Martin, Clarence L.
Bradford, Charles Bruce, P. M.
McConBell, Thaddeus Curtis
Coffing, Claud Courtney
McKee, James Anderson
Conrad, Thomas L.
Morse, Elbert Oscar
Cooper, Charles Homer
Owens, Wm. Eben
Dillard, Paul Alonzo
Powell, James C.
Ehrhardt, Frederick William
Reid, Argus Mcintyre
Ehrhardt, Henry Lester
Reith, Jesse Lee, P. M.
Elliott, Andrew
Richards, John Lincoln
Elliott, Christopher Adam, P. lll.
Rowley, Eugene
Elliott, John
Russell, Joseph
Foster, William E.
Smith, Gideon Henry
Freeman, Isaa~ Lake, P. llll.
SpringsteaQ,Ernest Willard, P. M.
Gage, Arthur Delos, P. M.
Stephenson, lgal Kennedy
Gage, Stanle Robinson
Stephenson, John Mitchell
Glann, Peter
Stephenson, John Nichols
Gray, Arthur Irwin
Stephenson, William Thomas, P. M.
Hasman, Joseph Lewis
Stephenson, John Francis, P. M.
Haviland, Phillip
Stephenson, George Edward, P. M.
Hogaboom, Benjamin Baldwin
Taverner, George Moore, P. M.
Hoover, Benjamin Van Zandt
Tribble, Claud Duval
Johanson, Carl Johan

257

Wells, Cary Thomas
W e11terberg, Nels Peter
Williamson, George Shaw
Yenger, William Henry
~7

WITHDRAWN:
Runyon, William Smith
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Messenger, Richard
DIED:
Bradford, William Barton

Mealer, Thomas Jefferson

DRYTOWN LODGE, No. 174
Drytown, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
"OFFICERS:

Moise Roos, M aste1·,
Plymouth, Cal.
Trevor Weston, Senior vVarden,
Dominic Boe, Junior Warden,
Charles Heqry Shields, Treasurer,
Allen Lee McWayne, Secretary,
Drytown, Cal.

John Milton Hickson, Chaplain,
George Leslie Lynch, Sen. Deacon,
Thomas Silva, Junior Deacon,
Charles Harrison Marchand, Mar.,
Thomas Honeychurch, Steward,
Frank Catto, Steward,
Guisseppi Bo, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bawden, Thomas P.
Bo, Guisseppi
Boe, Domminie
Buskin, William J.
Catto, Frank
Dach, Arthur
Eudey, John
Evans, Robert
Hinkson, John Milton, P. M.
Honeychurch, Thomas
Jennings, George Choat
Lawenthal, Julius
LeMoin, Fred Butler, £>. M.
17

Lynch, George Leslie, P. M.
Marchand, Charles Harrison, P. M.
McWayne, Allen Lee
Ralph, Joseph Henry
Roos, Moise, P. M.
Shields, Charles Henry
Silva, Thomas
Smith, John G.
Tiffany, Edward Vestor
Weston, Trevor, P. M.
Weymouth, Wilbur Shadrach
Wilson, Claude, P. M.
. -25

258

ROSTER

ANTIOCH LODGE, No. 175.
Antioch, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Third Friday in each montp.
OFFICERS:

Harry McNulty Beede, Master,
Henry Fuller Beede, Chaplain,
Antioch, Cal.
Duane Arthur Wirt, Senior Deacon,
Robert Elmer Crawford, Sen. Ward., Francis Mott Crawford, Junior Deac.,
George Oliver Kennerly, Jun. Ward., Otto Emil Klengel, Marshal,
Robert Harkinson, Treasurer,
Charles Bonney, Steward,
R. V. Davis, Secretary,
George Vivian, Steward,
Antioch, Cal.
James Riley Glass, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Altizer, William T.
Anderson, Oscar
Baker, Josiah Rio, P. M.
Beede, Charles Frank Tyler
Beede, Harry McNulty
Beede, Henry Fuller, P. M.
Beede, Leroy Wemple
Beede, Ralph Merrill, P. M.
Belshaw, William Walter
Bermingham, Samuel
Bonney, Charles H.
Bonslett, Jacob A.
Brewster, Lennan Benton, P. M.
Brown, Bruce Forrester
BTown, Murray Grant
Bruce, William Elmer
Bullock, Charles J.
Carter, James, P. M.
Clark, Charles L.ester
Clark, George Hudger
Clarke, Edwin Gilding
Cleaves, Steven Chase
Collis, William Arthur
Connell, James Johnson
Cox, John Thomas, P. M.
Crawford, Francis M.
Crawford, Robert Elmer
Cull, John Augustine
Cunningham, Charles S.

Davis, Roy Veatch
DeWitt, John Wallace
Durham, Lee Bartlett Holt
Ellis, James Wardrobe
Flood, Fred Howard
Foden, Cyrel
Franks, Frederick Clarence
Fraser, Samuel George
Glass, James Riley
Ha.mlin, Marshall Cnlvin
Harkinson, John Lincoln
Harkinson, Robert, P. M.
Hartley, Anderson Corbin, P. M.
Hay, William Edgar
Hazlett, James
Hooper, Frank Joseph
Horr, Charles Perry
Hutchison, John David
.Jacobs, Morris Harris
J ongeneel, Martin
Jones, Benjamin Roy
Joslin, Royal Tregea
.Tost, Frederick
Keeney, Collins Woodruff
Keuer, John
Kennerly, George Oliver
Klengel, Otto Emil, P. M.
Kuys, Andreas Theo.
Lavell, James

'ROSTER
Livingston, Frank William
Lomax, William Benoni
Marshall, George B.
Maupin, Lan
McCoy, Winfield C.
McPherson, Roland Thomas
Mead, Louis Durant
Moore, Leroy Wilburn, P. M.
Moore, Walter Shelby, P. M.
Murphy, William Green
Nasan, James Edward
Newman, Adolph
Nicholls, Joseph Robert Vincent
Nifforous, Dimitrios
Offerma11;n, William Henry
Patterson, D. H., Jr.
Peters, Frederick William, Jr.
Peterson, Oscar Amil
Rapp, Edward Percy
Rattan, Frank

Rother, Frederick Garlip
Smith, George Wallace
South, William Richard
Steele, Sumner
Story, Walter
Stubbs, William Glascott
Trythall, John Henry, P. M.
Uren, William
Veale, Richard Reine11
Wear, James Renwick
West, Jacob Hial
Wiechring, Gerhard John
Wightman, Joel David
Wilkening, Frederick
Williams, Thomas Morgan
Wood, William R.
Woolcott, Frederick Cameron
Worrell, Edwin Carter
Wright, George Creighton, P. M.

-07

WITHDRAWN:
Joslin, Arba

Kent, Harry Wallace
Williams, James Herman

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Montgomery, Curtis F.
DIED:
Abbott, Joshua Plummer

269

McKellips, Steplien Hora'·~
Rodgers, Orlando N.

260

ROSTER

ROSTER

PHOENIX LODGE, No. 178.
San Bemardino, San Bemardino County.
Stated meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Walter Byron Howes, Master,
Mark Bailey Shaw, Chaplain,
631 Catick St.
Harold Lewis Shaw, Senior Deacon,
William James Kinley, Sen. Wartl., William Thomas Hamblen, Jun. D.,
Ben Loan Holmes, Junior Warden, George Jury Reese, Marshal,
Edward David Roberts, Treasurer, Edward Bahler, Steward,
Josiah Wheeler Morgan, Secretary, Warren James Groninger, Steward,
P. 0. Box 32J.
Sydney Mee, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aldridge, David Lehigh
Allen, Jonas
Anderson, John Lee, P. M.
Aron, Max
Bahler, Edward
Bailey, William Allen
Baird, William James
Baldwin, Melville Jay
Barker, Donald McGregor
Barnum, John Harold
Barrows, Charles Edgar
Barrows, Elmer Arthur
Barrows, George Louis
Bechtell, Daniel Snyder
Beck, Charles August
Deck, Webster
Beimer, Anthony
Bellamy, Herman Greer
Biggs, John C.
Blackburn, James Jackson
· Blair, William Jackson
Bodkin, William George
Breene, Walter Simmons
Brooks, Charles K.
Brouse, Ernest Francis
Brown, John William
Burkhart, John B.
Carpenter, Daniel Jerome
Carpenter, Harry Griffin

Carr, John Louis
Castro, Raymond 0.
Chambers, George Robert
Chase, Herbert Harrison
Chase, Phillip James
Champion, Douglas
Clapp, Thomas John Sercome
Clark, Hiram
Clark, John Davis
Cleghorn, John
Cleghorn, Lorenzo Dow
Cole, Charles Davis
Colliver, Simeon Robinson
Coombs, Robert Hippsley
Coomes, Willard Edward
Culbertson, John
Curtis, Jesse William, P. M.
Curtis, William Jesse
Daggett, Leslie Marvin
Dauphine, Arthur Everett
Davis, Andrew
Desmond, Louis Alex.
Doran, Arthur L.
Eldridge, John Doane
Everett, Palmer Levi
Fairall, Howard Lee
Foltz, George
Foster, Alfred Brian
Ganser, Charles

Garver, Chas. Le Roy
Gates, Henry
Gawne, Irving Young
Gaylord, George
Gibson, James Alex., P. M.
Good, Israel Jonas
Griest, John Harley
Groninger, Jacob Alton
Groninger, Warren James
Grossman, David
Ham, Harrison Howard
Hamblen, William Thomas
Harold, Andrew Douglas
Harris, Elam Cephas
Hearsh, David
Hecht, Louie Milton
Hecht, Milton Ephraim
Holcomb, Francis Leroy, P. M.
Holmes, Ben Loan
Hook, John
Howes, Walter Byron, P. M.
Howland, Frederick Edson
Huffman, Ira B.
Hulsizer, John
Hvarn, Thowald
Imhoff, Ralph Eagan
Inman, Charles Iva
Jarvis, Peter William
Johnson, Albert
Johnson, Edward Powell
Johnson, James Hunter
Johnston, James Edwin
Jones, Griffith Isaac
Kendall, Geor11:e Theo.
Kennedy, Robert James
Killian, James Michelson
King, Robert Calvin
Kinley, William James
Knapp, Calvin Reason
Krebs, Orin Alfred
Krummel, Thomas Rinehart
Lampson, Charles Wm.
Lane, Burl
Lansing, Richard St. Clair
Lapelle, Elisha Elias

261

Lauraine, Adolph
Leffler, Frederick
Leighton, Hal Seward
Leisenring, Frederick Gideon
LeRoy, Charles Edwin
Livingston, Joseph Fell
Lloyd, George Washington
Lothrop, Luther Ramsdale
Lunceford, Robert Bruce
Magoffin, Frank Hooker, P. M.
Margetson, Frederick George James
Marks, Joseph
Marshall, John Albert
Martin, Horner Harry
Mccarter, John
Mcconnico, Clifford Varden
McFarland, Gail Haines
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Sr.
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Jr.
McGowan, Charles Thompson
Mee, Sydney, P. M.
Metzger, Edward DeLos
Meyers, ~orge Robert
Miller, Albert Charles
Miller, Cyrus Alfred
Miller, George
Mills, Henry William
Mills, Theo. Hardin
Morgan, Josiah Wheeler
Morris, Daniel Voorhees Orsman
Morse, Harvey Wells
Mortenson, Christian Nelson
Mudgett, Elvin Leroy
Mudgett, William
Mullen, Walter G.
Nelson, Arthur Pinkney
Newburg, Mervyn Jacobs, P. M.
Onion, Frank Christian
Orme, Thomas Whitefield, P. M.
Oster, Frank Frederick
Ousterhout, Fred Griffith
Oldaker, George'Gad
Owens, Walter Rufus
Page, George Webster
Palmer, Arthur

262
Parker, John Wesley
Parker, Lemuel
Parker, Robert Bryant
Perkins, Charles Ernest
Perkins, Harry
Perkins, Nathaniel
Perry, Morgan
Phillips, Charles Siddall
Phillips, Joseph Wilbur
Pierce, George Strunk
Pitcher, Edward Louis
Platt, Nowe Fayette
Poole, Charles Augustus
Poppett, Robert
Porter, Lewis Edwin
Potter, Rollin
Pritchard, Howard Monroe
Pullian, James Harry
Reese, George Jury, P. M.
Reese, Sanford Marian
Reilly, John Armstrong
Rettie, George Leith
Roberts, Edward David
Roberts, Horace Jewell
Robertson, William Jay
Runkle, Milton Stephan
Russell, James
Sayre, Edwin Weaver
Schuster, John
Schuster, William Clement
Searle, Charles
Seay, Chester
Seeman, John J.
Shaw, David Albert
Shaw, Harold D.
Shaw, Mack Bailey, P. M.
Skinner, Guy Elmer
Skinner, William Wright
Smitheram, William
Smith, Harry Elroy
Smith, Newell Noble
Smith, Sanford Stephen
Snow, Marcus Leonard

ROSTER
Sprott, Thomas William
Stephens, George Milan
Stone, David P.
Sullivan, Wm. Daniel
Symons, William Fred
Talmadge, Burt Wesley
Talmadge, Francis LeBaron
Talmadge, John W.
'falmadge, William Seymour
Taylor, Lewis Nathan
Taylor, T. Herbert
'ferrass, Milford Byron, P. M.
Terry, John Yale
Theobalds, Newton Lyle
Thomas, Alfred Bennett
Thompson, Wesley
Turner, Robert Lee
Tyler, John Hugh
Umbs, Jesse
Upson, Orin Alva
Van Buskirk, Melville Allen
Van Meter, Charles Edward
Vaughn, Rolla Vinton
Wachtell, John Kirby
Wagnori, Henry Francis
Walker, Walter Waldemar
Wall, Harry Joseph
Wallace, Albert Ernest
Waters, Byron Brewster
Wayte, Edwin
Wiggins, William R.
Wells, James Thomas
Wheeler, Harley Garfield
White, Eugene Lee
Whiteman, Joh~ Stephen
Wilson, Charles Henry
Wilson, Newton
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson
Wilson, Thomas Jonathan, P. M.
Wilson, William Henry
Wolff, Lewin
Worn, Eugene A.
-233

ROSTER

Costello, Patrick James

'

263

WITHDRAWN:
Hoxsie, Orton
•Peterson, George Forger

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Collier, John Adams
Mack, Royal Hegmer
French, John Bourne
Miller, ·.James Blaine
Porter, Robert William
DIED:
Covalt, George Wallace
Barton, John William
Blanchard, John Frederick
Mack, John Alexander
Rhinehart, John Taylor
Conway, Michael
White, Michael Louis
•Degrees conferred during the year.

MENDOCINO LODGE, No. 179.
Mendocino, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Hadley Chambers, Master,
James Melville Fisher, Chaplain,
Mendocino, Cal.
Gustaf Henning Swanson, S . Deacon,
George Edward Bassett, S. Warden, Charles Henningsen, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Archelus Atwood, J. Warden, William True Wallace, Sr., Marshal,
Henry Herbert Jarvis, Treasurer,
William Wagner, Steiilard,
John Arthur Chambers, Secretary, Benjamin John Bowden, Steward,
Mendocino, Cal.
Fred Halling, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ahlin, Nils Emil
Berry, John Charles, P. M.
Allen, · George
Bertrand, John S.
Anderson, George Levi
Bither, Lawrence Hartson
Atwood, Henry Archelus
Bodell, Robert
Bonta, Elvitius William
Ayer, Oliver Daniel
Bowden, Benjamin J.
Ayer, Samuel Lucine
Bowden, Charles Foster
Banker, Charles, P. M.
Burwash, H enry Jefferson
Barker, William Henry
Byrnes, Ralph Ranley
Barnes, Allen Petcival ·
Carpenter, John Jacob
Bassett, George Edward
Bennett, William Henry Harrison Chambers, John Arthur, P. M.

•

264

Chambers, John Hadley
Coombs, William Boyd
Cockes, Joseph Baird
Cravens, Clarence Buchanan
Dalin, Erick D.
·
Daniels., Percy Lenwood
Dart, Frederick William, P. M.
Dart, Joseph Howe
Dodge, James Arthur
Dodge, J eft'erson Lee
Dodge, William J. H.
Doig, James Muir
Durst, Fred M.
Fisher, James Melville
Flemming, William
Flood, Leslie Henry
Flood, William Henry
Foresyth, Ross W.
Foster, Edwin Star
Fraser, James William, P. M.
Furlong, Arthur Thomas
Gilkison, Melville Allen
Gorrell, Robert
Gorrell, William Sanford
Gould, Byron
Gray, Charles Thomas
Gray, Harold Cyrus
Gregory, Lester Claud
Grindle, Joshua
Guthardt, Philip
Hall, Frank
Halling, Frederick, P. M.
Henningson, Charles August
Hanson, Hans Peter
Hoak, Newman Ervine
Huft', Charles Edward
Jarvis, Henry Herbert
Johnson, Nels
Johnston, Andrew Earl
Johnston, Alfred Rhyerson
Keen, James Edward
Keller, Willis Alfonso
Kent, Nathaniel Warren
Kopp, Frederick C.
Lamb, Hugh Alexander

ROSTER

ROSTER

Speer, Samuel, P. M.
Swanson, Gustaf Henning, P. M.
Tannlund, Olaf
Todd, James ' Wilson, P. M.
Turner, William Price
Valentine, Don Alonzo
Valentine, Raymond Clay ·
Van Ahnen, Paul Frederick
Wahlstrom, Carl Gustaf

Leishman, John
MacDonald, John
MacDonald, John Jr.
Madsen, Mads Jargen
Maxwell, Perley
McClelland, George Blaine
McCleiland, James Garfield
McColgan, Dennis
McElroy, John Henry
McDonald, John Kenneth
McGimsey, Archie Alderson
McKay, Andrew
Moeller, Edward
Moore, Roy, P. M.
Nelson, Joseph Alvin, P. M.
Newman, Andrew
Newman, Oscar
Norbery, Charles Antone
Oppenlander, William Henry
Packard, Charles Oscar
Penther, Carl Frederick
Perkins, Fred Hillman
Peterson, Thomas Henry
Philbrick, John C.
Pitner, Oron Barry
Preston, Russell W.
Pullen, William
Reinertsen, Johannes Andrias
Rewcastle, James Goodie
Rice, James Charles
Ross, John Simpson, P. M.
Rush, Barnard
Rushing, John W.
Russell, Ro"derick Dhu
Salsig, Edgar Budd
Salsig, William Winter
Scott, Alonzo D.
Scott, Edward Slaughter
Severance, Frank Billings
Stanley, Perry Alfred
Stone, Walter Morison, P. M.
Stout, Clarence Leroy
Stuckey, Simon Fillmore
Steudeman, Henry Clay
Stickney, Fred Walter

Corrigan, James S.

Wallace, William True, P. M.
Wallace, William True, Jr., P. M.
Weiss, Frederick, P. M.
White, Clarence IDme.r, P. M.
Williams, Egbert Carson
Wood, Casimer Jackson, P. M.
Zavitz, Bert Robert
Zavitz, Garfield Nelson, P. ·M.

-129

DIED:
Perry, John Edward
Smith, Martin Thomas

PETALUMA LODGE, No. 180.
Petaluma., Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Talbot McGuire, Master, John Partridge, Chaplain,
105 Main Sl, Petaluma, Cal.
Sandy McFadden, Senior Deacon,
Sophus Carl Plow, Senior Warden, Adolph Henry Young, Junior Deac.,
Malcolm Lyman Byce, Junior Ward., Harry Charles Pieper, Marshal,
John Lawler, Jr., Treasurer,
Robert Wheeler Junkines, Steward,
George Nelson Smith, Secretary,
George David.Hinshaw, Steward,
504 Oak St.
John Olsen, Tyler.

Adams, John Quincy
Adams, William Samuel
Allen, James Edgar
Anderson, Alexander
Anderson, John Alfred
Ayers, William David
Arthur, James C.
Athanassin, George H.
Bauer, Ernest William
Bauer, John William
Baur, John
Bell, W ellie Samuel
Bellis, William Benson
Berri, Lindo Florindo
Berri, Vittore

I

MEMBERS:
Bidwell, Herman
Blackburn, Charles Walter
Blim, Peter Joseph, P. M.
Bowen, Alfred Daniel
Bowers, Alphonzo Benjamin
Bowles, Scott
Bowles, Bourbon
Brainerd, Henry Paine, P. M.
Brainerd, Herbert K.
Branch, George Byron
Brown, Robert Henry
Brown, Robert Spear
Brunner, Robert
Burdell, James Black
Button, Isaac V.

266

ROSTER

ROS'rER

Byce, Lyman C., P. M.
Byce, Malcolm Lyman
Camm, Edward Irving
Camm, John Lincoln, P. M.
Campigli, Charles
Cantel, Eugene
Champlin, Charles Chaffee
Coate, Henry R.
Collins, Frank Miller
uorlis, Albert
Crane, Tarleton Lee
Cromwell, Frank Arlington, P. M.
Crossley, Nathaniel Mason
Dean, Chauncey Theo., P. M.
Dean, James Burroughs
Denman, Frank Hardinberg
DeTurk, William Sherman, P. M.
Denny, Thomas Carmen
Denton, Samuel Wesley
Dillon, Charles Hardy, P. M.
Dinwiddie, James Lockridge
Drees, Ernest Emil
Dreyfuss, Edward
Dunton, Oscar
Edwards, William Philips
Eddy, William Samuel
Evans, Edward Wm. M., P. M.
Fairbanks, Hiram Tolbert
Ferguson, Randolph H.
Fraser, Charies Gladstone
Gale, Wallace Samuel
Geary, Warren F.
Giacomini, Natale
Gill, George Willard, P. M.
Goatley, Geo. Armsted
Gossage, Harry Sherman
Graham, Jonathan Harvey
Grandi, Reno Louis
Grandi, Salvatore
Graves, Sewel Fogg
Gray, Henry Charles
Gray, Edwards L.
Gray, Fred Lafayette
Green, Lyman, P. M.
Greenough, A. M.

Guldner, Walter Adelbert
Hamilton, George Washington
Hardin, Andrew Evan
Haskell, William Barnabee
Hanscom, Robert Hampden
Higbee, Hiram Bedell
Hinshaw, George David
Hitchcock, Frank Newton, P. M.
Hill, Alex. Blaky
Hoag, James W.
Hopkins, Samuel Judd
Horwege, Augustus William, P. M.
Huntington, Horace Hutchings
Huntley, vincent Goodfellow
Husler, Edward Aloia
Jenkins, Robert Wheeler
Johnson, John Eber
Kahn, Achille
Kearns, Joseph
Kyle, Arthur Leonard
'Lackey, Alex.
Lawler, John
Lawler, John, Jr.
Leehan, Albert Edward
Levin, Mannie
Lewis, James Hall
Lippitt, Frank Kavanaugh, P. M.
Lovejoy, George Palmer
Maclay, Thomas
Mardis, John D.
McDonald, Gilbert
McFadden, James, P. M.
McFadden, John Thomas
McFadden, Reuben
McFadden, Sandy
McGuire, Thomas Talbot ·
McGuire, William Campbell
McKillop, Dugald
McMullin, Smith
McMurtry, Mathew
McNear, George Plummer
Merritt, John
Middleton, John Henry
Millee, Charles Timothy
Miller, Theo.

Mills, George K.
Mills, William Andrew
Murphy, George Bennett
Nauert, Frederick Anton, P. M.
Nauert, Frederick Anton, Jr.
Nelson, Francis Victor
Netherton, Wm. Bunyon
Neuburger, Morris
Olleig, Howard Holmes
Olsen, John
Olmsted, John Alexander, P. M.
Ormsby, Ernest Walter
Ott, George Herbert
Ottolini, Ferdinando
Parker, George Washington
Parker, James Augustus
Parrish, David Franklin
Partridge, John
Pedro, Fernando Philip
Penry, John Edward
Phillips, Abraham Lincoln
Phillips, Frank Harry
Pieper, Harry Charles
Plow, Sophus Carl
Poehlmann, Conrad
Potter, Emanuel Andrew
Purvine, Thomas Byron
Purvine, William Burton
Ramsay, Samuel
Rankin, Lowry Elmer
Reed, Clarence Ellsworth
Reynolds, Edward Henry
Riblet, Henry Nelson
Roberts, Fletcher J.
Roberts, Henry John
Rogers, Milton K. T.
Rohrer, Chas. Frederick
Robinson, William, P. M.
Rundall, Napoleon B . ..
Samuels, Ernest RCl'hert
Sartori, Victor
Schlicker, Frederick
Schlueter, Frederick Charles
Scott, John Columbus

267

Seibel, Charles
Seibel, Harry
Sharpe, Chauncey Oscar
Simidian, Mihram M.
Skinner, Arthur Tapin
Smith, George Neilson, P. M.
Smith, Harry Francis
Soule, Charles Freeman
Spridgen, William Thomas, P. M.
Stayner, Charles Allen
Stewart, Samuel James
Stradling, William Charles
Strauss, David
Stull, John
Sweed, Philip
Sweetmann, George Richard
Taft, Chester Kimball
Taft, Hiram Fayette, P. M.
Taft, Louis Russell
Thomas, William David
Tibbetts, Arthur Livingston, P. M.
Towne, Walter
Tupper, John Henry
Van Bebber, Park Andrew
Vander Naillen, Edmund Lewis
Van Marter, William Henry
V ogensen, Hans Peter
VE!ale, WilJiam Roe, P. M.
Vestal, Walter Clarkson
Wakefield, Orrin Lewis
Wallace, Robert G., P. M.
Weber, Herman, P. M.
Weil, Adolph Leopold
West, Frederick Charles
Weston, Harry Mccurdy
Weston, Henry Little
Wilder, William
Willard, Thomas
Winsor, John Henry
Woods, Robert
Young, Adolph Henry
Zartman, William Henry
Zook, Frank Kortz

-207

ROSTER

268

Brown, Frank H.

WITHDRAWN:
De Martini, Eligio

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bowen, William E.
Rodd, George B.
Chambers, Alfred E.
St. John, Silas C.
Thomas, Charles E.
Fuller, Harve
Webb, Edward H.

Haubrick, Leonard

DIED:
Yan Bibber, Peter

RUSSIAN RIVER LODGE, No. 18r
Windsor, Sonoma County. ·
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next eucce.e ding Fnll Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Harold Calhoun, Master,
George Kabrick Porter, Senior Deac.,
Windsor, Cal.
Milton Lincoln Meredith, Jun. Deac.,
Robert Ballantine, Senior Warden, James Buchanan Sheppard, Marshal,
Chester Van Grafen, Junior Warden, Elmer Granville Archer, Steward,
William Henry Young, Treasurer,
Christian Julius Martin, Steward,
Thomas Miller Yates, Secretary,
Frank A. S. Opfer, Tyler.
Windsor, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Balbi, Joseph
Emery, Fred Artemus
Ballantine, Robert
Gaines, William Crockett
Barnes, Edwin Harrison, P. M.
Green, John James
Bell, Howard
Hembree, Andrew Jackson
Bell, Warren
Hembree, Atlae Thompson
Berns, Jacob William
Higby, Earl David
Bertoni, Joseph
Hoffer, Charles Augustus
Bosch, John David
Hunter, Henry ' Almon, P. M.
Calabella, Benedetto
Jacobson, John Henry
Calabella, Charles
Jones, Cellie .
Kruse, John Anton
Calhoun, William Harold, P. M.
Carter, Andrew Jackson
Laughlin, Grant Alex., P. M.
Lavelle, John
Cooper, John David
·
Crosbie, James
Lavelle, William Thomas
Davis, John Martin
Lee, Stacy
Eckle, Tobias Louis
Leech, Albert Earnest

ROSTER
Lehn, Louis
Lindsay, Walter Clark
Litton, Thomas Buckman
MacKinson, Herbert Arthur
Macy, William Clinton
Maddux, James Everet
Maddux, Lee
Maddux, William
Martin, Christian Julius, P. M.
McCracken, William Jasper
M.cCutchan, William Charles
McGuire, Jacob
Misener, Albert Fillmore
Mitchell, William James
Mitchell, John Wesley
Nowlin, Andrew Brail
Opfer, Frank Augustus S.
Overton, Theo. Talbot
Peterson, Peter Hanson
Pohley Joseph Charles, P. M.
Pool, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Pool, Frank Johnson

Pool, Harry Edward
Roat, Charles Wesley
Sh<1ppard, James Buchanan, P. M.
Slusser, Chester ;Martin
Slusser, Eugene
Small, William Henry, P. M.
Snook, Edward Birdsey
Stark, Claude
Tartter, Frederick
Temple, Richard
Trowbridge, George 'fyler, P. M.
Tuttle, Jamee
Walk, Jasper Jerome
Wilson, Herbert Roy
Wilson, William Franklin
Wilson, Ned Stewart
Wilson, Lawrence Henderson, P. M.
Wilson, Julius
Wilds, George Edward
Yates, Thomas Miller, P. M.
Young, William Henry

-75

WITHDRAWN:
Hall, Richard Bishop

Estingbausen, William Adam

269

DIED:
Graham, James William

MERIDIAN LODGE No. 182.
Arbuckle, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

Thomas Gilman Barrett, lvfaster,
Charles S. Stinson, Chaplain,
Arbuckle, Cal.
Neil Smith, Senior Deacon,
Ch~rles Cleveland McMullen, S. W., H. E. Lieurance, Junior Deacon,
Russell Cleveland West, Junior W., George C. Meckfessel, J'.farshal,
Douglass Cramer, Treasurer,
George G. Meckfessel, Steward,
Samuel Alvah Pendleton, Secretary, Robert J. Lindsay, Steward,
Arbuckle, Cal.
John C. Ward, Tyler.

270

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Atran, Alexander Julius
Owen, Arthur Sheldon
Barrett, Thomas Gillman, P. M.
Patton, Raymond Kelsey
Patton, Walter Gordon
Briscoe, David Frisbie
Callender, Ernest Glenn
Pendleton, Samuel Alvah, P. M.
Peake, Edwin Henry
Cramer, Douglas, P. M.
Peart, John Marshall
Christian, George Herman
Peart, Joseph Wilbur
Foster, Joseph Warren
Rahm, Roscoe, P. M.
Gabby, Robert Smiley
Sherer, James Hamilton, P. M.
Grevie, Peter, Jr.
Sherer, John Dillon
Grove, Walter
Smith, Neil
Howell, William Franklin
Stanton, Claude Devon
Hyde, Harry Edward
Stebbins, Cyril Adelbert
Kisslin~, Rudolph Conrad
8tewart, <Jharles William
Knox, Ellis :C,.angdon
Stinson, Chas. Green
Lieurance, Harly Edward
Struckmeyer, Milton Freeman
Lindsay, Robert .J. Milton
Traynham, Henry Vaughn
Locke, Charles Henry
Trueblood, William Erwin
Martin, Julius, P. M.
Ward, Edgar Kirby, P. M.
McMullen, Chas. Cleveland
Ward, John Cannady
Meckfessel, George Conrad, P. M.
West, Russel Cleveland
Meckfessel, George G.
Wilkins, Robert Watson
Mitchell, James Edgar
Zumwalt, Marion
Myers, John Henry
-47
.Myers, Lorenzo Dow
Jamison, William Thomas

WI'l'HDRAWN:
Moore, George W.

DIED:
Woodland, James Ward

CLEAR LAKE LODGE, No. 183.
Lower Lake, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pnceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:
Albert Hiram Kennedy, Master,
Rolla Randolph Rannalls, Sen. Deac.,
Arabella, Cal.
Ernest Enderline, Junior Deacon,
Charles S. Sheridan, Senior Warden, ........................................, Marshal,
Louis Jago, Junior Warden,
William H. Smith, Steward,
Frank Akins, Treasurer,
Francis M. Herndon, Steward,
Luke Evans, Secretary,
William J. Clayton, Tyler.
Lower Lake, Cal.

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Akins, Frank P.
Kennedy, Albert Hiram, P. M.
Arbuthnot, Phillip Stewart M.
Kirtley, John Elliott
Brenard, James Dunbar, P. M.
Levy, Herbert, P. M.
Castellaw, Thomas Lorenzo
Morrell, Albert Fairfield
Clayton, William Jariline, P. M.
Pardee, Bill Jennings, P. M.
Cohn, Abraham
Pardee, George Washington
Dinsmo·re, George Major
Palstine, Samuel Thomas
Enderline, Ernest
Rannalls, Rolla Randolph
Evans, Luke, P. M.
Rawson, William Bus:field
Frank, Leon Harrison, P. M.
Sheridan, Charles Spencer
Herndon, Francis Marion
Snow, George Horace
Jago, Louis
Smith, William Henry
Kennedy, Hiram

271

-25

DIED:
Jones, Daniel

Wilson, Henry Harrison

SIERRA VALLEY LODGE, No. 184.
S1erraville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James N. Turner, Master,
George W. Maxwell, Senior Deac.,
Sattley, Cal.
John M. Wood, Junior Deacon,
William L. Nichols, Senior Warden, Fretz H. E. Ohland, Marshal,
William E. Miller, Junior Warden, Daniel]. Webber, Steward,
Linus Dolley, Treasurer,
Herbert 0. Nichols, Steward,
William J. Copren, Secretary,
Ray E. Yarrington, Tyler.
Sierraville, Cal.
Barton, Walter B.
Coates, Gaines Lane, P. M.
Copren, William J., P. M.
Dennis, William
Dolley, Linus
Dolley, Walter John
Howk, John Simeon
Humphrey, Jacob Butte
Johnson, Julius
Jones, Edward Everett

MEMBERS:
Kynoch, Walter Anson
Langrebe, John
Maxwell, George W.
Mercer, Earl H.
Miller, William Egbert
Morgan, James
Nagle, George
Nichols, Albert S.
, Nichols, William Llewellyn
Nichols, Herbert Oma

ROSTER

273

ROSTER

272

Ohland, Herman F. E.
Patterson, David B.
Perrazzo, Joseph
Place, John Norton
Rowland, Francis Marion, P. M.
Slipner, Henry

Strang, Jared
Turner, Harry Augustus
Turner, James M., P. M.
Webber, Daniel Jasper
Webber, Owen Nathan, P. M.
-32
wood, John Mowrey

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chandler, William Henry
Fiess, Earl

Hockett, Robert V.
Wood, George

Lane, Wm. Ralph
Litchfield, Frank
Lobree, Phillip
Mahlman, William Theo.
Marsan, David Allen
Miller, August
Neto, Joseph Rafael
Newfield, Aaron
O'Brien, Chester Francis, P. M.
Paulson, Amandus John R.
Queen, Christopher

DIED:
Pritchard, Maurice

Rassmussen, Martin
Redemeyer, Luther, P. M.
Reynolds, Frank Walton
Sanford, John B.
Stornetta, Antone
Taylor, James Richard, P. M.
Whelpton, Charles
Watrous, Robert Winthrope
Williams, Richard Holbrooke, P. M.
Williams, William Lewis
Worthington, Peter Duncan
-50

WITHD~AWN:

Sharp, Isaac Shipman
DIED:
Chalfant, Aaron

CLAIBORNE LODGE No. 185.
Point Arena, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of' or next preceding Full Moon.

EVENING STAR LODGE, No. 186.

OFFICERS:

Henry Howe, Master,
James R. Taylor, Senior Deacon,
Point Arena, Cal.
Augustin Miller, Junior Deacon,
Frank W. Reynolds, Senior Warden, Joseph C. Halliday, Steward,
B. H. Baker, ]tmior Warden,
Chester F. O'Brien, Steward,
John Clark, Treasurer,
Jcseph H . Halliday, Tyler.
Frank L. Emery, Secretary,
Point Arena, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Griffith, Forestes Lawson
Bishop, Elijah
Halliday, Joseph Crockett, P. M.
Borden, Joseph Hea
Halliday, Joseph Henry
Callnan, Eugene William, P. M.
Hargrave, Edwin Williard
Carter, Albert Edward
Chalfant, Harold Philbrick, P. M. Haskell, William Bascombe, P. M.
Hathaway, Robert S. Baker
Christie, Fred Abasolem
Higgins, Walter H.
Clark, John
Howe, Henry
Coast, Ochen W esle;v
Hunter, Samuel C., P. M.
Cuthbertson, James Ernest
Hussey, Richard
Dunn, James
Iversen; Soren, P. M.
Emery, Frank Lyman
Kingren, Jacob William
Getchell, Harvey Osgood
Lane, John Crosby, Sr., P. M.
Gillmore, Emmitt ·Potter, P. M.
Lane, John Crosby, Jr.
Gillmore, Everett Emerson

Etna Mills, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Isaacs, Walter
Adams, John Howe, P. M.
Kist, Charles William, P. M.
Baird, Charles
Luce, Irving Jacob
Barandun, Simon
Marx, Martin, P. M.
Bathurst, Edwin William, P. M.
McBride, John Wallace, P. M.
Benson, John
MeBSner, John Frederick
Benson, Oscar Leonard
Mitchell, George Henry, P. M.
Colton, Albert Sanborn
Nutting, Charles Wilber, P. G. M.
Dannenbrink, Henry
Nutting, James Alexander
Foster, Lee Wilbert
Parker, Alex., Jr., P. M.
Geney, Henry Ferdinand, P. M.
Parker, John
Green, Orson Valentine, P. M.
Parrott, Albert Francis
Haines, William Homer
Rostetter, George
Hall, Edward Monroe
18

ROSTER .
Smith, Fred George, P. M.
Spooner, George Cummings, P. M.
Strickland, Chester George
Swain, William Cartwright
Taylor, Alexander Stuart

Hughes, James Robert

Taylor, Robert Pey
Traverse, John
Wallis, Albert
Wilson, Lucius Staff'orrl
Wilson, Lucius Stafford, Jr.

ROSTER

-34

DIED:
Jenner, Charles
Messner, John Martin

KEITH LODGE, No. 187.
Gilroy, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Frederick Blake, Master, William A. MacClean, Chaplain,
James Clair Patison, S en. Deacon,
Gilroy, Cal.
Andrew George Rasmussen, Sen. W., August Gubser, Junior Deacon,
Edward Raymond Green, Junior W.,.Frederick Henry Sebire, Marshal,
Christian Peter. Andresen, Steward,
Henry Hecker, Treasurer,
Meyer Lawrence Friedman, Steward,
David Thornton, S ecretary,
Henry Lynn McDuffee, Tyler.
Gilroy, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Crawford, Edward Darrell
Andresen, Christian Peter
Davis,
John Mathews
Baird, Thomas Waldie
Dowell, John Clifford
Barshinger, Benjamin
Doerr, Otto
Bennett, Edwin Joseph, P. M.
Dunlap, George Thomas
Berkson, Mark Joseph
Earl, George Wheeler
Bigley, William Henry, P. M.
Einfalt, John Michael. P. M.
Blair, William Grant
Emlen, Clement Henry
Blake, William Frederick
Farmer, Edward Henry
Bradley, John Harrison
Franklin, Bernard Hodges
Brem, Richard
Frederickson, Charles Elmer
Britton, William
Green, Edward Raymond
Burr, Daniel, Jr.
Guhsor, August
Campbell, Archibald
Haydock, William Henry, P. M.
Chappell, George Alfred
Hayes, William Clarence
Clark, Jonas
Hecker, Henry, P. M.
Colby, Earl A.
Hellstrom, Carl Alex.
Cordes, Paul Henry

27()

Henderson, Peter
Rice, Frank
Holman, Charles Albert
Richter, Albert St. Clair
Holsclaw, William Barter
Riley, Daniel John
Keaton, George
Robertson, Robert Neilson
Keith, John Mathew, P. M.
Rohnert, Waldo
Ketchum, Otto Lucean
Sargent, James Alex.
Kilpatrick, Samuel William
Sebire, Frederick Henry, P. M.
Lamb, Frederick
Skeels, Henry Asbury
Lewis, George Martin
Skillicorn, George Edward, p. M.
Lewis, James William
Slocum, George Washington
Lennon, Mark
Smith, Arthur Dee
Linnell, Allen Sylyester
Smith, James
MacClean, William A.
Smith, Sidney Henry
Martin, Albion Alonzo
Springett, Roland
Martin, Jasper Franklin
Staniford, Frank Chester
Martin, John Henry
Sutcliff', John
Mason, George Thomas
Swope, Edwin
McCoy, Arthur Howard
Thomas, Rowley Montague
McDnff'ee, Henry Lynn
Thornton, David
Meyers, James Henry
Tice, George Edward Charles
Miner, Joseph Marion
Tracey, Harry Woodbridge
Moore, Oscar Thomas
Tryon, Ambrose Bruen
Moore, Samuel Thomae, P. M.
Vernon, Howard K urtz
Moore, Walter Soott, P; M.
Wagner, Harry
Onyon, Fred Gage
Watson, Alexander
Parmelee, Phinias Ward
Weaver, Clarence Roy, P. M.
Patison, James Clair, P. M.
Wentz, George Adam
Peterson, Frederick ·
Whlte, George Charles
Percy, William J.
Wicker, Harry
Phelps, William
Wild, Harry Lee
Porter, Walter Sherman
Wild, William Bradford
Pratt, Charles Francis
Willey, Howard
Pyle, Darius Mack
Willson, Carlon Russell
Pyle, William Robert
Wolfrom, Adam
Rasmussen, Andrew Sofus Geo.rge Wright, George William
Rea, George Elmer
Wright, Jamee Henry
Rea, Samuel
Zuck, James Balph, P. M.
Rice, Marshall
-109
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Higgins, John Thomas

276

ROSTER

OAKLAND, LODGE, No. 188.
Oakland. Ala.meda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Richard Sutton, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Thornton Moore, Master,
Daniel Webster Pratt, Sen, Warden, Don Frederick Harris, Jun. Deacon,
Howard Nelson Mosher, J. Warden, Francis Ami Braun, Marshal,
Edwin Nelson Walter, Treasurer, Arno Gustave Folte, Steward,
Charles Nelson Walter, Secretary, William Geo. Carl Luckhardt, Stew.,
Thaddeus Robinson Joy, Tyler.
First National Bank, Oakland.
William Samuel MacMurtry, Chap.,
MEMBERS:
Bennett, Henry Thomas
Abbott, Frank Howard, Jr.,
Berkefeld, John Wolfrom
Abel, James Neil
Birr, Herman Theodore
Abel, John Jacob
Bixby, Wiifred Everett
Adair, William Holleley
Black, Joseph
Aber, Louis
Blair, William Wallace
Alexander, George
Bliss1 Percy Laughland
Alexander, George Washington
Boell, Edward Albert
Allen, E:rnest
Boell, Frederick William
Altman, David Joseph
Bones, Samuel West
Anderson, Henry Cornelius
Borchert, Carl Wyland
Andere~n, Otto Fred
Borland, Archibald
Anderson, William Wilson
Bowbeer, Benjamin Franklin
Arrowsmith, George Edward
Bowen, Pardon Mason
Badger, Thomas Norman
Brabban, Dixon
Baker, Alfred Septimus
Bradshaw, Benjamin
Baker, Ernest Emery
Bradshaw, Thomas
Ballinger, Wallace Atkinson
Braun, Clarence Thomae
Barker, Charles William
Brau~, Francis Ami
Barnard, Charles Sumner
Bray, George Garfield
Basham, John Alden
Brayton, Edward Lacey
Bassford, John William
Breed, Arthur Hastings
Batchelder, William Frank
Breed, Herbe~t Lincoln
Bauerle, Adolph Henry
Brinckerhoff, Elmer Ellsworth
Baxter, Ormie Reed
Brigman, Martin
Beatty, Joseph Crawford
Britton, John Alex., P. M.
Beck, Alders Clark
Britton, Van Leer Eastland
Bell, Harmon
Broadwell, Melvin Luther
Benjamin, Edward Hewlett
Bronson, Edward Dverdin
Benner, Harry, P. M.

BOSTER
Brown, Benjamin Theo.
Browne, Henry Robinson
Brownell, Frank Allen
Bruce, Samuel James
Brum!, Oscar Charles
Bruns, John Christian Conrad
Burbank, Louis
Burgess, George Waldo
Burpee, Joseph Solomon
Burpee, Lester Glenn
Burns, John William
Burrell, Alfred Ray
Burtchaell, George Thomas
Butler, Benjamin E.
Button, Fred Lawrence, P. M.
Cantin, Augustus Samuel
Carl, Charles Frederick
Carpenter, Tom
Carter, James
Cary, Benjamin Gates
Casad, Samuel Grant
Chaloner, Henry
Chamberlain, Nelson H.
Chamblin, Clyde Luther
Channell, William Leon
Child, Edward
Christianson, Lawrence Theodore
Clark, Charles Edward
Clark, William C.
Clay, Isham Harrison
Clemmer, Ora Howard
Clift, Frederick Charles
Colbourn, Frank
Cole, Walter Hill
Cole, William David
Coleman, Silas Ellsworth
Colline, David Edward
Concanon, Wilfred Walter
Coneanon, William Norton
Congdon, Ernest Niles
Connor, William Alfred Hopkins
Cook, Norman Dunn
Corder, Arthur Elmer
Corrigan, John Sinclair
Crafts, Henry Gray

Craig, Albert William
Craig, Hugh
Crawford, Albert Eugene
Creed, Wigginton Ellis
Crist, Frederick George
Curtis, Bert Leonard
Cushman, Edwin Burke
Dale, Alex Holman
Dalziel, Robert
Daniels, Gilbert Barber, P. M.
Davie, John Leslie
Davies, Robert Ellis
Davis, William Rude
Deal, William Griffith
Degen, Ludolph Phillip
DeGolia, George Ellis
De la Montanya, Harry O.
De la Montanya, Mathew
Dewar, Frank Milne
Dilling, Alfred Ernest
Dingee, William Jackson
Dixon, Robert Vickers
Donegan, Constantine Paul
Drapeau, Louis Claude
.D unne, John Carlos
Dusinbury, Myron Thompson
Du Val, William Moyland
Eberhard, Henry
Eadie, John
Eadon, William Henry
Earle, Guy Chaffee
Eber, George
Eber, John William
Edwards, Ambrose Frederick
Engelhardt, Herman Louis
Enslin, Alfred Gottob
Erdman, Ludwig
Evans, Richard Henry
Evans, Talisien
Evans, Thomas Daniel
Everson, Wallace
Fairchild, Judd Hobart
Ferris, Frank Elwood
Fieberling, John Peter
Finkeldey, Edward John

277

278
Finkeldey, William Henry
Firby, Thomas Wm. Nelson
Fischer, Charles Frederit"'J:
Fischer, George Irvine
Fitzpatrick, Frank Emmett
Folger, Edwin Gilbert
Foite, Arno Gustav
Folte, Gustave Julius Oswald
Fortin, Damiens Edmont
Foss, Wm. Sherman
Fowler, Douglass Thomas
Franck, Henry W.
Franke, Rudolph Charles
Fraser, Alex. Grant
Fraser, Hugh
Freidlander, Marcus
French, Asa Telford
Friend, William Hovey
Fuller, Dee Bryant
Gabriel, Walter Newton
·Gage, George Guilford
Gage, Stephen Thornton
Gallagher, James Joseph
Gardiner, Claud Melnotte
Gause, Charles William
Gaylord, Robert Brainerd, P. M.
Giamboni, Louis Alonzo
Gifford, Arthur Swift
Gifford, Charles Terry
Gifford, William M.
Gilcrest, Charles Fletcher
llilman, Joseph
IHas, Maxmillian
ctoodhue, George Brook!!
Goodwin, Wardwell Clark
Hraham, Charles Kinaird
Gray, Roscoe Spaulding
Greenwood, Frank Munroe
Grismore, John Thomas
Grover, William Sherwood
Hackett, Samuel Allston
Hammer, George
Handy, Lucius Harvey
Hansen, Charles John
Hansen, Gudman

ROSTER
Hansen, John Mikkelsen
Harden, Frank Walter
Harris, Albert Lawrence
Harris, Don Frederick
Barron, George Durward
Hayes, John Ferdinand
Heaver, Walter
Henderson, John Henry
Henderson, Peter Alexander
Henshaw, Tyler
Herby, Nels Jensen
Hermle, William Adam
Heron, Ernest Alvah
Hewes, Charles Leslie
High, William Henderson, Jr.
Hill, Benjamin Chickering
Hill, John Augustus
Hill, Hobert Lewis, Jr.
Hildebrand, Raymond Cecil
Hirsch, Edward Rudolph
Hobbs, Clarence Leavitt
Holt, Charles Henry
Howard, Charles Prescott
Howard, Henry Sherwin
Howard, John L.
Howard, John Lawrence, Jr.
Hubbard, Bert Sheridan
Hughes, Wilfrid Kellog
Hughes, William
Hundley, Eugene Russell
Hunt, Symmes Harrison
Hunt, Thomae Edward
Hyde, Wallace Edward
Ingram, William Henry
Irish, Spencer Kline
Irving, Charles Edward
Ismon, George Henry
Jacks.o n, Francis Frederick
Jasper, Oscar Wood
Jepson, Louis
Jillson, Charles Brooks
Johnson, Charles Emil
Johnson, Emil Theodore
Johnson, Gunst
Johnson, Stephen Howard

ROSTER
Johnson, Wm. Elliott
Johnston, Jacob Burchfield
Johnstone, Peter Mitchell
Jonas, Abraham
Jonas, Irving
Jonas, Milton L.
Jones, Richard
Jones, William Henry
Joy, Thadeus Robinson
Judie, Benjamin Z.
Kastens, Harry Edward
Kantch, Magnus Gustav
Kinsman, Richard
Keyes, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Keyes, Charles Edwin, Jr.
Keyes, William Reed
King, Robert
Kitto, George
Klein, Sigmund
Knowles, Edwin Irving
Knudsen, John Martin
Koser, Newton Alexander
Kuehn, Max Frank William
Kuhlmeyer, Henry John
. Laidlaw, Frank
Lamar, Henry Everett
Land,. Walter
Lange, John Frederick
Lawrence, John
Laymance, Millard Joserhu1
Lea, Frederick John
Leckie, Robert Stevenson
Lesser, Jacob Harry
Lewis, John
Lindsay, Thomas
Lineker, Charles Wm.
Littlefield, Roscoe Wentworth
Lockwood, Elmer Langton
Logan, William Wells
Long, Richard Frederick
Lovett, Alvah Eugene
Luckhardt, Wilhelm Carl Geo.
Lutkey, Charles Henry
Lynas, Robert Irving
Macdonald, John Archibald C.

279

Macdonald, William Isadore, P. M.
Macdonald, William
MacGregor, Charles Manning
Mack, Oscar Eugene
MacLafferty, James Henry, Sr., P. M.
Maclise, James
Madden, Frank Ellsworth
Madison, George Edmund
Mariner, Gideon Stanwood
Martens, D. Richard
Martin, Neils M.
Matthews, Nicholas Algie
Mayo, Bertram Chapman
Mayon, James Lenox
Meade, George Frederick
McLure, James Thomas
McCloskey, Albert Charles
McCully, Judson
McGowan, Charles Mastersen
McGrew, Henry Grant
McKinnie, Charles Earle
McLeod, John Ci°i.mpbell
McMurtry, William Samuel, P. M.
Meeker, Frank Leslie
Melquiond, Lester Lawrence
Mengel, Charles Peter
Merritt, Albert Humphrey
Merritt, James Bestor, P. M.
Meyerstein, 'Charles
Miller, Charles William Joachim
Miller, Frank Thomas
Miller, Homer Theophilus
Miller, Lewis Albert
Miller, Robert Willis
Miller, William Henry
Miller, Thomas Irving, P. M.
Mincher, Burton Lewis
Mock, Theodore Lewis
Moore, Harry Thornton
Moore, William John
Mohr, Henry
Mohr, Henry Cornelius
Morgan, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Morse, Fred Wellington
Mosher, Howard Nelson

280

ROSTER

Mock, Theo. Freylinghuyeen, P. M. Perry, Andrew John
Perry, Henry Lee
Morrison, William John
Perry, Joseph Joshua
Moes, David
Petersen, Fred Albert
Moulton, Alfred Rose
Petrocelli, George Joseph
Mueller, Charles Daniel
Phelps, Nelson Dwight
Muller, Jacob
Phillipe, Frederick
Muller, John Peter
Pierce, William
Munsell, Jamee Roy
Plummer, Arthur Thomas
Munson, Arthur King
Pocock, Henry Edwin
Murdock, Homer Blaine
Poole, Charles Oscar
Myers, Harry Ernest
Potter, Robert Wilson
Myers, Wilbert Jacob
Powell, Alvin
Myrick, Chester Stanley
Powell, Howell Aubrey, P. M.
Naismitli, James Semple
Pratt, Albert Harlow
Neff, Myron Dilbert
Pratt, Daniel Webster
Nelle, Hans William
Proctor, Richard Ernest
Nelle, Harry Willard
Pulcifer, Henry Willie
Nelle, William
Ransome, Ernest Leslie
Nelson, Edmund
Redding, Albert Putnam
Nelson, Nels Peter
Reed, Jamee Gilbert
Neighbor, Robert Webster
Roach, Jamee Vincent
Neilsen, Christian Severin
Robins, John Harvey
Nethercott, Charles James
Roberts, Jesse Sanford
Nichols, Frederick
Robertson, Gilbert
North, Hart Hyatt
RodolDh, Francie Bequette
North, Samuel D.
Roeth, Charle11
Northrop, Earl Vernon Ceasar
Roethlieberger, Hane
Nourse, Stephen Henry
Rogers, Cecil D.
Ogden, Fred Roderick
Roes, Frank Joseph
Ogden, John Clark
Roes, John Mimmo
Orrick, Oliver Summerfield, Jr.
Roesier, Charles Augustus
Otis, Albert Henry
Roetron, Ralph
Ott, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Rowe, Albert
Pardee, George Cooper, P. M.
Russell, Earl Hunter
Parker, Chester Stilman
Sagehorn, Henry Albert
Parker, Samn,.l
Sagehorn, William Deidri<'h
Parry, Thomas Hendry
Sadler, Herman Julius
Parry, William John
Samuels, Herbert Joshua
Paterson, George Wannon
Sause, Clifton Archibald
Patterson, Alexander John
Scharman, Herman
Pearce, Edward Hugernin
Schlueter, Theodore Albert
Pearce, Webb Nicholsen
Perkins. 'leorge Clement, P. G. M. Schaackey, John Daniel
Schaackey, Louie John
Perkins, George Edward, P. M.
Schachtebeck, Christian Lewi1
Perkins, LewiS" Clarence

ROSTER
Scott, Andrew Lowndes
Scott, Jesse Arthur
Searight, Beath Paul
Searles, Mailler
Seely, Harry Hooper
Shafron, Arthur
Shankland, Thomae Clinton
Sherman, Edwin Allen
Shortill, Walter
Shuey, John Adam
Simpson, Joseph H.
Skimmings, Robert Hoskings
Slater, Urotee Mayer
Smilie, .Tamee Alexander
Smith, Albert Lippitt
Smith, Andrew Derby
Smith, Edwin Lowell
Smith, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, Guy Cummings
Smith, Horace Edwin
Smith, John
Smith, John Frederick
Smith, Le Roy
Smith, Sumner Stewart
Smith, William Clay
Smith, William Bailey
Smith, William Delaware
Snow, Harry Kervan
Soderberg, Carl Fred
Soule, Henry Douglas Bacon
Souter, John Henry
Southwell, Frank Lyman
Spangler, Lawrence Alfred
Spaulding, Nathan Walter
Spence, Aaron Tindle
Stafford, Walter Alfred
Stewart, Robert William
Stone, Louis Stanwood
St. Pierre, George
Stratton, Wallace Clinton
Street, Horace Marvin
Street, William Schwerdt
Stromberg, John Warren
Sturges, Frank Fanning
Sturges, Frank Foster

281

Suckerman, Jacob
Sunkler, Wilson Hillier
Sutton, John Richard
Swanberg, Eric
Swanson, Charles
Swenson, John Arthur
Swenson, Swen August
Taft, Henry Clay
Tardy, Henry Gabriel
Tate, Samuel Patton
Taehiera, Lewie
Tayler, Samuel Johnson, P. M.
Taylor, Samuel Johnson, Jr.
Thomae, Hayward Glazier
Thompson, Ernest Lester
Thome, Christopher August Fred.
Thornbury, Herbert John
Thurber, Judson
Todd, James Hamilton
Towle, John Francis
Trea<lwell, John Bartlett
Trower, Albert Ebenezer
Trower, Frank Whitaker
Turnbull, George Wylan
Turner, John
Upton, Lewie Mylon
Upton, Mylon William
Van Court, Eugene Salter
Van Inwagen, Leonard Francis
Van Schaick, D 'Ehnry Sylvan
Verrill, Samuel Lenard
Veyhle, Albert
Vidy, Jamee Gabriel Powers
Vogt, Frederick Percival
Von der Ropp, Alfred
Von Hirsch, Sementi Julius
Voorhees, Fred Duane
Vore, Wm. Aea
Wachs, Harold
Wachs, Martin
Waldron, Patrick Sarchfield
Waldron, Vernon
Walker, Wilber, Sr.
Walker, Wilber, Jr.
Walker, William

ROSTER

282
Walter, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Walter, Edwin Nelson
Walton, JeBBe, P. M..
Ward, Alfred Ernest
Ward, Eobert
Warren, John Chester
Waterhouse, Charles John
Waters, Geo. Willard
Watlington, ~braham Lincoln
Waltz, Charles
Webb, Arthur James
Weilbye, William Hansen
Weill, Armand
Weill, Eugene
Westlake, Benjamin Franklin
Wharton, Henry Edward
Wharton, Harry Edward, Jr.
Wheeler, Roscoe Samuel
Whidden, George Robert
White, George Stevens
White, James Steve11s
Whitney, Frederick Eugene
Wilberg, Ernest Nicholas
Wilcox, Burton Bernard
Wilcox, Walter Cary

Adams, Frank Samuel
Corey, John Sanborn
Harris, William Baker

Williams, Alfred John
Williams, .John
Williums, John Edward
Williams, Robert Neal
Williamson, Hazard Snowden
Williamson, W. Forsythe, P. M.
Wilson, Adelbert
Wilson, Charles Jasper
Wilson, James Stuart
Wilson, Lee A.
Wilson, Norris Remington
Wilson, William
.Vinkelma.n, Louis Cornelius
Wise, Charles Ferdinand
Wise, Herbert Daniel
Wise, Melvin
Wise, Raphael
Wishaar, John Herman
Withers, Perey Stanley
Woesner, Frank Henry
Wood, Hart
York, Charles Bannon
Young, Julius Alexander
Young, Wm. Fenwick
Zeigler, Andrew M. Theodore -558

WITHDRAWN:
Haver, George R.
Pedder, Stanley
Wilson, Joseph, Jr.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Belcher, Gilbert Luke
Porter, Phil

Clark, Alvah Kittredge
Eadon, Moses
Frost, William Edmund
Hoffman, Charles Frederick
Howie, Thomas

DIED:
Jenkin, Joseph Henry
Lathrop, Solomon
Lowden, William Heron
Miller, William Noble
Pierce, Edward

ROSTER

2f3

NORTHERN LIGHT LODGE, No. 190.
Millville, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFl:""IOERS:

Herman Henry Butzbach, Master,
Frederick Dersh, Chaplain,
Millville, Cal.
John Wesley Thatcher, Sen. Dearon,
George Frederick Taylor, S. Ward., Hugh Alexander Addington, /. D.,
George Washington Thatcher,/. W., William Gusham Wagoner, Marshal,
Louis Clarence Smith, Treasurer,
Benjamin Franklyn Davis, Steward,
Walter Leforest Gay, Secretary,
Emory Dean Null, Steward,
Palo Cedro, Cal.
]aeon Daniel Overmyer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Klotz, William Frederick
Adams, John Quincy
Addington, Hugh Alexander
Lippoldt, Herman August
Asher, Fredrick
Lewis, Charles Henry
Atkins, Benjamin Wilberforce
MeBroom, Alva
Baker, Lewis Edward
Metsker, Alonzo Bryon
Bass, Herbert
Middleton, George Thomas
Bateman, Charles Edgar
Middleton, Joshua Joe
Binkley, Tholow
Middleton, Thomas Huff
Brown, Wp.lter Wm.
Morgan, Richard William
Butzbaek, Henry Herman, P. M.
Morris, William Israel
Butzbaek, Raymond Henry
Null, Emory Dean .
Clark, Ross Parker
Ogburn, Jefferson Davis
1'.rutter, Henry Hill
Ogburn, John William
Davis, Benjamin Franklin
Overmyer, Jacob Daniel
Dirseh, Frederick, P. M.
Phillips, John Williard
Dunham, Almond Nathaniel
Rathbun, Merritt Dempsey
Dunham, Joseph Albee, P. M.
Rathbun, William H. Harrison
Eick, Howard D.
Rawlings, Erastus Edward, P. M.
~dwards , Marshall Elliott
Rawlings, Levi Petit
Rock, Samuel Oliver
Eldred, Stephen Jamee
Flowers, Marshall Edward
Ross, Albert Frederick, P. M.
Forslund, Charles Frederick
Sanger, Frederick
Sehrarer, Otto Frederick
Gay, Walter Leeforest
Hackler, Francis Marion
Scott, Thomas Joel
Sheridan, Adelbert Oscar
Hackler, Lorenzo Spencer
Silver, Levathy
Hardy, Royal Lorne
Harris, Amiel Monroe
Smith, James Edward
Hathaway, John Ray
Smith, Louis Clarence
Hurst, Ferdinand
Smith, Wallace Adelbert

284

ROSTER

ROSTER

Smith, William Atkin, P. M.
Sorenson, Samuel
Taylor, Clarence Charles
Taylor, Edward Milton
Taylor, George Frederick, P. M.
Taylor, John Zacharia
Thatcher, Alexander
Thatcher, Bert William
Thatcher, Earl Sylvester

Thatelier, George Wash., P. M.
Thatcher, John Thomas
Thatcher, John Wesley
Thatcher, Mark Carr
Turner, Joseph
Wagoner, William Gusham, P. M.
Walsh, William Francis
Witherow, Samuel Newton
Wright, Ernest Wallace
-77

DIED:
Crawford, James

MARIN LODGE, No.

191.

San Rafael, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Mackenzie Sims, Master,
Dudley C. Bates, Chaplain,
San Rafael, Cal.
John Clute, Senior Deacon,
Albero Nicholas Boyen, S. Ward., Albert B. Dewing, Junior Deacon,
Arthur Leslie Adams, Jun. Warden, Ferry F. Draper, Marshal,
William Paul Murray, Treasurer,
Abraham L. Borkgeim, Steward,
George Gore Vepderlip, Secretary, Edgar T. Zook, Steward,
San Rafael, Cal.
Samuel ]. Davidson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, William Henderson
Beeker, Vietor Frederick
Adams, Arthur Leslie
Belden, Josiah Humphreys
Adams, Walter Miller
Bent, Wilson Dexter
Allen, Glenn Loring, P. M.
Berry, Fred Leslie
Angellotti, Frank Marion, P.G.M. Bettancurt, John Enos
Atterbury, Charles Bakewell, P. M. Birlem, Frederick William
Augustine, Samuel Miller
Bogle, Eugene Edwin
Ault, John Milton
Bonneau, Thomas Siah, P. M.
Barber, Albert Hale
Boole, William Augustus
Barnes, Edward Thomas
Borkheim, Abraham Lincoln
Barr, Robert Joseph
Boyen, Albert Nicholas
Brehm, Adam
Barr, Thomas Ira Cook
Barr, William
Brixen, Christian
Bates, Dudley Conent
Brown, Will Walker
Beauregard, Harry Julius
Buchanan, George

Buck, John Aldridge
Buck, Walter Ehlers
Bullock, Edwin Mortimer
Burleson, Harley Le Verne
Burnham, Burton Nicholas
Byrne, James Douglass
Caldwell, Angus Byrne
Carlile, Charles Edgar
Cediey, Francie
Chamberlain, William Lewis
Cheda, George Alfred
Christensen, Charles
Christoft'ersen, Hans Christian
Clark, John
Claussen, Peter Heinrich C.
Clute, John
Codoni, Guiseppe Abbondio
Collins, Samuel Wilson
Corbaley, William Gladden
Cordell, Harold Maberry
Crisp, Frederick John
Cutting, Griffen Marshall
Davidson, Jamee B.
Davidson, Samuel J.
Davis, .Robert James
Dewing, Albert Becher
Dickson, Frederick William
Dickson, Robert Edwin
Dollar, Alexander Melville
Dollar, Robert
Dollar, Robert Stanley
Donohoe, Denis
Doody, John Andrew
Doody, Michael Chic
Dougall, William Wallace
DuBois, Charles Hall
Duncan, David, P. M.
Elliott, Thomae
Elliott, William, P. M.
Ellison, Charles Eugene
Fahrion, Wallace Glenn
Farrell, Chas. Henry
Fish, Charles Hull
Fish, Dudley Fargo
Fisher, William Fred

285

Foster, Arthur William, Jr.
Foster, Wallace Henderson
Frank, L eonard. David
Fuller, Harvey Holland
Furlong, Robert , P. M.
Gilliland, James Hobert
Gilmore, Clyde Phillip
Graham, Mark MacDonald
Grnndjean, Walter
Green, Thomas Blaine
Greer, Henry Elijah, P. M.
Gustafsan, Charles
Hansen, Carson Christopher, P. M.
Hansen, George Carson
Hansen, Henry Marius, P. M.
Hardy, Douglass Harry
Harris, Philamon Alphonso
Hartman, Paul
Healy, Frank Jewell
Heilfron, Bernhard
Hoover, Frank Curtis
Inman, Pratt Cook
Innes, George Alexander
Jack, John Turnball
Jacobs, Francis John
Jensen, Chades 0.
Jepson, Henry
Joiner, William Daniel
Jones, Herbert E llie
Jones, Richard Clarence, P. M.
Jones, W. Farrington, P. M.
Kaneen, John Stephen
Keffer, Guy Vickrey
Kendrick, George Freeman
Kierulft', George Dudley
King, William Joseph
Kirk, Andrew
Klammer, Eugene
Knight, William Augustus
Knittel, Henry
Kuser, John Henry
Lauck, Jose:ph Benjamin
Lau1f, Oscar Bengua
Laulhere, Bernard Marceline
Lewis, Harry Thomas

286

ROSTER

ROSTER

Sawyer, Fred Earl ·
Lichtenberg, Rudolph George
Schaer, Fred William, Jr,
Lichtenstein, Milton
Schernstein, Frank Charles
Lietz, Adolph
Schlosser, Henry
Lietz, Adolph, Jr.
Schluter, Henry Arnold
Ludera, Rudo.lph Otto
Schmidt, Ben Henry
Magnes, Robert
Schmidt, Carl Richard, P. M.
Mahood, George
Schmidt, Max August
Mansie, William
Sharp, William Fuller
Murchison, Neil
Shaver, Charles Bird
Marshall, William
Shaver, Raymond Isaac, P. M.
Mason, George
Sherer, Rex William
McConochie, John Cecil
Short, Frank Everett
McLean, James 'l'homas
Silveira, Felix Augusto
Meyer, Henry Bernhard
Sime, Frank Jed
Michelsen, Mathias
Simpton, Frank George
Millen, George Barnes
Sims, John MacKenzie
Miller, Albert Martin
Skinner, Wilber DeEsting
Murphy, Felix
Smith, Lionel Hugh
Murray, George, P. M.
Smith, Walter Jaspur
Murray, William Paul, P. M.
Sparrow, Arthur James
Muscio, Dante Rogers
Sparrow, Howard Cooper
Nelson, Edgar Burton
Spencer, Harry
Nelson, John
Stipp, Lo~n
Nelson, Walter Shippee
Strong, Edward Beebe
Olmsted, Stephen Horatio, P. M.
Sturtevant, Wilbur Daniel
Paine, Charles Sanford
Sweetser, Fred Wiley
Parkin, John
Taylor, James Irving
Parks, Ira Hamland
Taylor, Will Penfield
Pearson, Otto
'fhayer, Raymond Haven
Petersen, Peter Henry
Thompson, Charles Westley
Pfaff', Bernhart George
Trumbull, Robert Hamilton
Pfaff, Louis
Upton, Archie Hoagland
Pitcher, Jay Clifford
Vanuerlip, George Gore
Polssan, Adolf
Von Hacht, August
Porcella, Stephen
Von Husen, Henry Johannes
Powrie, Charles
Warden, Leslie Edwin
Rea, Henry Augustus
Warden, Robert Audley
Reinhold, Antone Peter
Warden, Russell Harvey, P. M.
Reinhold, Peter William
Warren, Roy Everet
Rice, William Akerman
Robertson, William Edward, P. M. Waterman, George Burton
Wessell, William C.
Robson, Neil Stuart
Whaley, Thomas .Tossph
Rudolff, Herman Hart Fred
Wheeler, Robert Scott
Rydberg, August Julius
White, Lynn Townsend
Saunders, John Algeo

Wiles, Orlo Daniel
Williams, Nathaniel
Williams, Peter
Wilkins, James Hepburn

287

Woodward, Archimedes Bucknor
Woodward, Arthur Clinton
Wreden, Carl von
Zook, Edgar Thomson
-218
WITHDRAWN:
Glascock, William L.
Howard, Frederick P .

Cooper, Alfred B.
Elliott, Frederick N.

SUSPENDED FOJt NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Fonnesbeck, John
Taylor, Samuel Penfield
DIED :
Robertson, William E. ·

SANTA BARBARA LODGE, No.

192.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Preston Smartt, Master,
William Cro~s Merrill, Chaplain,
322 W. Figueroa St.
Samuel J ohn Kehl, Senior Deacon,
John Pitcher Smith, Senior Warden, Oscar William Smith, Junior Deacon,
Richard· Lafayette Hammer, Jun. W., David Howard Schauer, Marshal,
Winfield Bradbury Metcalf, Treas., Richard Hamilton Oliphant, Steward,
Robert Fulton, Secretary,
Alfred James Hone, Steward,
715 State St.
Samuel Manchester, Tyler.

Alves, John Joseph
Archer, Vern Buell
Baker, Nelson Willis
Baker, Clarence Albert
Baker, Stephen
Barker, James Lawrence
Baylies, Frederick Henry
Beatty, Harry Wilson, P. M.
Birss, James
Bither, Frank Denn"'
Bocock, Robert Leon'!-rd
Boeseke, Albert
Brassfield, William Leonard

MEMBERS:
Brown, Joseph H.
Bussey, Bert Myres
Caldwell, Harry Eugene
Caldwell, Joseph Trafton
Carpenter, James Walker
Cavalletto, James Domenic
Citzler, Bernard
Clifford, John Quincey
Clow, Burton Roderick
Cornwall, James Tod
Cornwall, Thomas
Crawford, William Samuel
Curran, Joseph Pierce

288
Day, Benj. Robert
Dearborn, True H.
De Rieux, Lee Omer
Dodge, Edward Gardner, P. M.
Dillin, George William
Doyle, Herbert
Dozier, Anthony White, P. M.
Eaton, Joseph Osborn
Edmondson, Alfred Robert
Edwards, Hubert Lionel
Ellis, Linnaeus T.
Emigh, Frank Edward
Farnum, Eugene Oscar, P. M.
Forrester, William Lucien
Frabe, Harry George
Fulton, Robert
Garland, Thomas
Garretson, Charles Oscar, P. M.
George, Edgar Sherman
Gerow, William Sperry
Gibbs, Albert Wyman
Grant, Alexander Charles
Grant, William Ric~ard
Granzin, John Andrew
Hammer, Richard Lafayette
Hardy, Albert Perham, P. M.
Hayman, Fred
Heyl, Samuel John
Hiller, John N., P. M.
Hiller, John Roy
Hodgins, George Albert
Hone, Alfred James
Ireland, William Moore
Johnson, Charles Parker
Jones, Rufus Thomas
Kilgore, Moat Molden
Knight, Clarence Crosby, F. M.
Long, William Lewis
Lory, Eugene Aime
Loveday, Claude
MacLeod, John Alexander
Maiers, Geo. Frederick
Manchester, Samuel, P. M.
Martin, Ai Dennis
McAvoy, James Milton

ROSTER
McDavid, Irwin Alexander
McDonald, Duncan
Merrill, William Cross
Metcalf, Winfield Bradbury, P. M.
Meyer, William Alfred
. Moore, Ellis Passmore
Moore, Peter Louis
Moraga, Jose Gabriel
Moraga, Juventino
Morgan, William Emery
Morse, William Henry
Morton, Lee Weed
Moyer, Daniel
Neyhart, Perry Herbert
Oliver, John Ross
Oliphant, Richard Hamilton
O'Neill, Owen Hugh
Ostin, Oscar Lawrence
Ott, Adam
Ott, Charles Adam
Ousdal, Osborne Petersen
Paddock, Edgar Luzern
Park, Roy East
Pinkham, Samuel Curtis
Porter, Roy Samuel
Potter, Ernie Clark
Pyster, John Neal, P. M.
Ramsey, Henry Arvil
Rasey, Charles William
Rickman, Charles
Roach, William Xavier
Ross, James
Rowell, William Arthur
Rowley, Charles Harvey, P. M.
Schauer, David Howard, P. M.
Schnebly, William Francis
Schuster, Augustus Carl, P. M.
Seagers, John
Sexton, Joseph Foster
Shoemaker, John Samuel
Silvester, John
Skinner, Charles
Slosson, Willis .Merton
Smart, Joseph Frederick
Sm&Ttt, l<'rank Preston ·

ROSTER

289

Smith, Frank Burton
Trace, Robert Bradley
Smith, Frederick John
Trace, Victor Eugene
Smith, John Pilcher
Waibel, William Clyde
Smith, Oscar William
Warnekros, William Louis
Squier, Eugene Wesley, P. M.
Waters, William Gardner
Squier, Oliver Perry, P. M.
Webster, Chauncey Elemuel
Stoddard, Thomas Albion
Welle, Peter Caffin
Taylor, Arthur Wilson
Whitehead, Jesse
Taylor, John Brutus
Williams, Alfred Bascom
Taylor, John Lewis
Williams, David C.
Teegen, John Henry
Williams, Jamee Garfield
Woolman, Arthur Erwin
Thompson, William Hundley
Tomlinson, George Wellington
Wynne, Grover Claude
. -142'
WITHDRAWN:
Dawe, George
Hickey, Glen Harison
Deaderick, James G.
Higgins, Phinias Clark
Fergus, Oscar Warren
Ogan, John Higginson
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burson, Arthur Edward
Burson, J oseph H.
Wyman, William P.
DIED:
Breslauer, Theodore Mathew
Findley, James
Eddleman, Jacob Joshua
Wilson, Albert Calhoun Joseph

FERNDALE LODGE, No. 193.
Ferndale, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS :
Frank ]. Cummings, Master,
Theodore Ferdinand Hiller, Sen. D.,
Ferndale, Cal..
William Nelson Damon, Jun. Deac.,
Edward Elonzo Cornell, S en. Ward., John Ericsson Gries, Marshal,
Herbert Norton Briggs, Jun. Ward., Ira A. King, Steward,
Frank Nisson Rasmussen, Treasurer, James D. Rogers, Steward
Elbridge Chamberlain Damon, Sec., Edwin Varley, Tyler.
'
Ferndale, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Alford, Clyde Charles
Blackburn, Arthur William, P. M.
Alford, William Brazzilia
Briggs, Herbert N.
Barnes, Isaac Bloomfield
Bruner, Francis Marlon
Barney, William Edward
Bu~k, Frank Eugene
Bartlett, James Frederick
Burris, Preston Ray, P. M.
Beck, Peter
Caltoft, Harry
Benson, HanR Madsen
Christiansen, Hans Christian
19

290

ROSTER
ROSTER

Church, Walter Morton
Comisto, Silva
Cornell, Edgar Alonzo
Damon, Elbridge Cham., P. M.
Damon, William Nelson, P. M.
Devinney, James Mark
Dinsmore, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Dinsmore, George Charles
Dinsmore, Samuel Potter
Doe, Charles Albion
Edwards, Ray Henry, p, M.
Ericksen Jens Christian
'Ericksen'. Leven Christian, P. M.
Evans, Ernest Theo.
Feenaty, Rollin Stanton
Flowers, Frank B. ·
Foster, John Edmon P. M.
Francis, Decimo App
Fulmor, Smith
Garrett, Charles Austin
Gries, John Ericsson, P. M.
Hall, Thomas Jefferson
Hansen, Henry August
Hicks Leonard Salmon
Hiller'. Theodore Ferdinand
Hindley, George
Hurlbutt, Harry Ellsworth
Inskip, Philip Seward, P. M.
Kemp, John Wellington
Keohan, Alfred
King, Ira Adolph, P. M.
King, John Russell
Krieg, ·Frederic Theodore
Lytle, Edward B.
Michael, Luther
Miller, Austin Vincent
Miner, Cyrus Wilhan;i
Miner Leander Haskins
Mpor:, Charles Willia1:'1
Morrison, George Wilham

.

Morrison, Lafayette
Morrison, Silas V.
Mueller, John Gotlief
Nelson, Martin
O'Neal, Smith Demint
Olsen. Lewis Herman
Patrick, Zelotus Bingham
Perry, Wm. Oliver, Jr.
Pierson, Edward Augustus, P. M.
Pollard, John Thompson
Price, George Alexander
Rackliff, Charles Cla~k
Rasmussen, Frank Nissen, P. M.
Rasmussen, Jacob
Rasmussen, Morris
Ring, Hogan J.
Robertson, Jonathan F.
Rogers, James Davis
Russ Ira Alonzo, P. M.
Russ: William Nehemiah
Samuels, Henry Charle~
Samuels, William Martm
Schreiner, Charles Theodore
Scott, Ira Lewis
Siples Louis Justin
Shaw,' Joseph Armitage, P. M.
Smith, George Peabody, P. M.
Smith, James
Smith, Lucus Miles
Smith, Robert Hunter, P. M.
Snowden, Isaac Wayne
Stone, Louis John
Sweet, George William
Tooby, Ernest Norton
Trost, John Henry, P. M.
Varley, Edwin
Waddington, Martin Thomas
Williams, Frank George, P. M.
Wing, George
-93

DIED:

Branstetter, Walter Grant

Roberts, Ellis R.

291

MOUNTAIN VIEW LODGE, No. 194.
Mountain View, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Frank Seneca Daniels, Master,
Howard Harvey Ainsworth, Sen. D.,
Mountain View, Cal.
Thomas Elbert Watts, Jun. Deaco11,
Robert Rankin, Senior Warden,
Alvin Pride Rogers, Marshal,
Donald William Forbes, Jun. Ward., Charles Woog, Steward,
Edward Thompson Johnson, Treas., Gilbert Given Chance, Steward,
Cyrus Phillrick Berry, Secretary,
Henry Brunhofer, Tyler. ·
Mountain View, Cal.
MEMBERS·
Ackley, William A.
Frink, Louis Hitchcock
Ainsworth, Howard Harvey
Free, Arthur Monroe
Ayer, Willard Wilbourne
Fuller, Charles Rexford
Bacon, Frank Wilfred
Gibbs, Chester Wilton
Baggi, Cassimir Scossa
Gordon, George Clarence
Berry, Cyrull Phillrick, P. M.
William Everett
Greenlaw,
Bessey, Arthur Ernest
Harkins, Charles John
Brown, Earl Cullen
Hasler, Isaac Edward
Camp, Wilber Lee
Herndon, Edward M.
Carothers, Ed. Dawson
Hill, Elmer Leslie
Chapman, Eber Owen
Hushbeok, Harry
Charleston, John B.
Johnson, Edward Thompson
Christensen, Harry Nicoli
Jones, Leo Donald
Clark, Walter Armstrong
Kleckner, Madison Monroe
Covel, Llewellyn Allen
LaPiere, George Warren
Crittenden, Levi Albert, P. M.
Mansfield, John Ray
Crossman, Walter Allan, P. M.
McBain, John
Cutter, John Jay·
Meinieke, Edward· George
Daniels, Frank Seneca, P. M.
Meyer, William Daniel
Devert, Charles Camp
'
Mockbee, Charles Henry
Devert, Frederick Elvin
Mockbee, Jacob S.
Drake, Louis Driver
Morgan,
Oscar Crellin, P. M.
Ehrhorn, Charles Horatio
Mudge, Robert Simpson
Ehrhorn, Edward McFarland, P. M.
Munder, Rudolph
Emerson, Edwin Lester
Osborne, Clyde Hull
Emerson, Frank Lincoln
Owen, Herbert
Fishman, Ely Louis
Parcell, Charles Erskine
Forbes, Donald Wm.
Peterson, Frederick Lawrence
Foss, William F. Farrington, P. M.
Prideau, Frank William

ROSTER

292

Rankin, Robert
Rathburn, Franklin LaRue
Rengstorff, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Rogers, Alvin Pride, P. M.
Rogers, Arthur Blake, P. M.
Roger, Wilfred
Saunders, Frederick Kincaid
Sciarini. Charles Louis
Sinz, John Arthur
Spaulding, Charles C.
Starbird, George Arlo
Stevens, Marcus Harloe

Stocker, Mark Samuel
Strong, Henry B.
Swall, George
Swall, Lester George
Thomason, Andrew Elmer
Trulsen, Houkan, P. M.
Vishoot, Leo Harry
Walker, John William
Weilheimer, Henry
Weilheimer, Julius
Whiteside, George Nelson
Zschokke, Arthur Jacob, P. M.

RPSTER

-82

WITHDRAWN:
Anderson, William Austin
Merrill, John Albert
Parkinson, Charles Rosbery
DIED:
Humaston, Charles

Hansen, Nelson

BUCKEYE LODGE, No. 195.
Winters, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Elias Ireland, Chaplain,
James Henry Haile, Master,
Edwin Hicks Edwards, Sen. Deacon,
Winters, Cal.
Dillard Ralph Guthrie, S. Warden, J. Elwood Sackett, Jr., Jun. Deacon,
Frank Wilson Anderson, !. W Md en, William Albert Brinck, Marshal,
Daniel Huston Waughtel, Treasurer, Alpha Cook Sullivan, Steward,
Joseph R., Larndin, Steward,
John Elwood Sackett, Secretary,
Theodore Elbert McFall, Tyler.
Winters, Cal.

Allen, Oliver Herbert
Anderson, Frank Wilso:Q.
Baker, Edward Entrican
Baker, Irwin William
Baker, William Samuel
Bassett, William Harris
Boyce, Hamilton Gay

MEMBERS:
Bray, Lee Roy
Briggs, James Richard
Brinck, August
Brinck, Henry
Brinck, Henry Roy
Brinck, William
Brmck, William Albert, P. M.

Brock, Llewelyn T., P. M.
Button, Henry Leslie
Coleman, John LOgan
Crane, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Edwards, Edwin Hicks
Erlwards, George Nathaniel
Ely, Benjamin
Englehart, Cleve Edmund
Fairchild, Chester Hyman
Germeshausen, William Emil
QQodyear, John Murray
Griffin, Geo. Martin
Griffin, James Benjamin
Griffin, John Frank
Griffin, Joseph Raines, P. M.
Griffin, Joseph
Guthrie, Dillard Ralph
Guthrie, Oscar Edwin
Ilaas, Henry
Haile, James Henry
Harlan, Joseph Ludwell, P. M.
Heilig, Irwin Winfield
Harling, Micajah Oglesby
Hemenway, Fred Clyde, P. M.
Hesselberg, Isadore
Hoy, Samuel M. H.
Hutchins, George Washington
Ireland, Elias
Ish, Arthur Baldridge, P. M.
Jeans, Robert Harrison
Maxwell, James Oliver
McFall, Theodore E.
Moler, Clarence Raymond
Moler, John Frank
Morrison, Robert

293

Nash, Warren G.
Nehring, Lee F.
Ormsby, Martin Powell
Renfro, Lewis Clark
Ritchie, Alexander
Robinson, Alfred A.
Robinson, James
Robinson, William Henry
Rogers, James Henry
Rucker, Edward
Rummelsburg, Joseph
Sackett, John Elwood, P. M.
Sackett, John Elwood, Jr.
Sackett, Louis Arthur, P. M.
Seeley, Mack Jay
Seifert, Otto Emil
Settle, Henry Clay
Shearer, Levi
Shepherd, Alexander Huston
Sims, George
Sims, Wilbur
Smith, Charles Egbert
Stinson, Alonzo D.
Sullivan, Alpha Cook
Thompson, George
Wainwright, Jacob Whiting
Warder, Shadwick Morris
Waughtel, Daniel Huston
Wilson, Frederick Walter, P. M.
Wolfskill, Edward, ·P. M.
Wolfskill, Frank
Wyatt, Marcus Oscar
Young, Herb Arthur
Young, Walter B.
-83

ROSTER

ROSTER

SAN SIMEON LODGE, No. 196.

WILMINGTON LODGE, No. 198.

Cambria, Sa.n Luis Obiapo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Wilmington, Los Angeles County.

OFFICERS:
John Henry Bradhoff, Master,
Cambria, Cal.
Edward Reghetti, Senior Warden,
Louis John Renshaw, Junior Warden,
John Henry Eubanks, Treasurer,
George Alfred Steiner, Secretary,
Cambria, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Muma, Irving Johnston
Muscio, Abram
Music, Ethelbert David
Paterson, Alexander, P. M.
Pedrotta, Guiseppe Antonio
Pryse, William Stratton
Renshaw, Lewis Johnson
Righetti, Edward
Righetti, Francisco August
Righetti, Pompeo
Sanders, Dick
Steiner, George A.
Stewart, James Fackler, P. M .
Taylor, Harry Maclin
Tognazzini, Peter, P. M.
Tonascia, Charles
Tognini, A. B.
Van Gordon, Gilbert
Watson, James William
- 38

Asebez, Edward
Barlogio, James
Bernasevin, Ferdinand Pericles
Bradhoff, John Henry
Cass, Henry Kingdon
Cook, Alexander Stirling
Dickie, George Scott
Dodson, Bitner, P. M.
Eastman, Charles \
Eubank&, John Henry
Frankl, Adolph, P. M.
Gamboni, Fredrico
Guerra, James Anton
Guesa, Jasper P.
Hardie, Angus McFenon, P. M.
Kaetzel, Philip
Kaneen, Charles Stephen
Maggetti, Peter Lorenzo
Molinari, Lino

Rootledge, Percival L.

WITHDRAWN:
Vanoni, Mark Anthony

Stated Meetings, first

296

Tuesday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Don Cameron Fohl, Master,
Wilmington, Cal.
Edwin Oliver Bailey, Sen. W arden,
Anthony N. Winchester, J. Warden,
Clarence H. Eubanks, Treasurer,
William Henry Barker, Secretary,
Wilmington, Cal.

Walcott Hufford Evans, Chaplain,
Charles Francis Harrold, S. Deacon,
Ralph Earl Cornwall, Junior Deacon,
Washington Irvin T ravis, Marshal,
Henry Lembke, Steward,
Robert Henry N ewman, Steward,
Isaac Robbins, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bailey, Edwin Oliver
Mero, Frank Arthur
Millen, William
Barker, William Henry
Moore,· Wellington S.
Brilliant, Benjamin, P. M.
Multhrop, Willey Howard
Carey, George Joseph
Carter, Henry Edwin
Myer, Charles Clarence
Cheney, Henderson Cottlett
Opp, Erhard,
Cornwall, Ralph Earl
Ratliff, Roland M.
Robins, Isaac
Edelman, Benjamin W.
Sandison, Edwin Wallace
Eubanks, Clarence H .
Evans, Wolcott Bufford
Schweiser, Frederick
Seileman, Albert
Fohl, Won Cameron
Sherman, William Henry Alfred
Gannaway, Harry Easton, P. M.
Slabaugh, Warren H.
Harris, Allyn Frederick, P. M.
Smith, Albert Victor
Harrold, Charles Francis
Smith, George Reid
Hattenbach, Aaron
Stewart, Robert J ., P. M.
Hayes, Thomas Benjamin, P. M.
Sylva, Joseph Perry, Jr.
Hayes, Victor William, P. M.
Tate, Charles Clayton
Jargstortf, Arthur Clark
Talman, Edward W.
Johnson, J. Bichard
Thomas, John 8.
Jordan, John Norman
Travis, Washington Irving
Kennedy, Silas Eli, P. M.
Lembke, Benjamin Charles
Vignes, John Lewis
Warren, Robert Boyle
Lembke, Henry F .
Winchester, Anthony N.
Marbut, Edgar Hume, P. M.
Wright, Charles Alex.
McCoy, Benton
Young, Andrew, P. M.
McCoy, Oscar
Merithew, Percy I nman
-53

ROSTER

ROSTER
WITHDRAWN:
Whea.tley, Wilkins Winston
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF
Sjoberg, Charles James William

DUES:

~ED:
Jacoby, Herman

HARTLEY LODGE, No. 199.
Lakeport, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Harold Neal, Master,
Joseph M. Church, Chaplain,
Lakeport, Cal.
David F. Mcintire, Senior Deacon,
James Wesley Beck, Senior Warden, Clyde E. Lawson, Junior Dea~on,
Fred Annette Greene, Junior Ward., Jonathan D. Monroe, Marshal,
Jabez Banks, Treasurer,
David E. White, Steward,
Patrick R. Jourdain, Secretary,
A. V. Joslin, Steward,
Lakeport, Cal.
Peter Neilsen, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Church, Joseph Martin, P. M.
Ackley, Charles Fremont
Churchill, Heber Byron
Andrews, Chas. Truman
Cockrell, Harry Bradley
Bacon, Charles William
Collier, William Bell, Sr.
·Banks, Jabez
Craig, Joseph
Barnert, Charles
Craig, M.A.
Barry, Robert Emmett
Crawford, Woods, P. M.
Beck, James Wesley
Crump, John Gillion
Boardman, Oscar Terry
Daily, George Leonard
Boggs, Lilburn Henry
Davis, William Ferrill
Brown, Henry Nathan
Deputy, ·Addison Hester
Brown, James Humphrey
Deputy, Horace Edward
Brown, William Harrison
Drake, Oscar B.
Brundige, Joseph Allen
Edmundson, James David
Butler, Doron Kay
Ells, Theodore
Byrnes, John Warren
Fearn, Walter Henry
Caldwell, Horace Newton
Fitzgerald, George Richmond
Carpenter, Herbert
Foree, George Haynes
Chamblin, Marcus Richardson

297

Miner, Mark Leonard
Fraser, Lovett K.
Monroe, Curtis Jefferson, P. M.
Fraser, Lyon
Monroe, Jonathan Daniel, P. M.
Gopcevic Bozo Mitrov
Morrison, John William
Green, Arthur Wellie
Greene, Dudley Welch, P. M.
Murd()ck, George Gawn
Myers, George Welton, P. M.
Greene, Fred Annett
Neal, George Harold E.
Greene, William Wood
Gunn, James Alexander
Neilson, Peter
Nicoll, David Cox
Hay, James Arthur Bruce
Henderson, Lewis
Polk, Robert Choteau
Porter, Fred
Howard, Elmo Faber
Howard, Euvelle, P. M.
· Price, Benjamin Allen
Howe, Frank
Rantz, William Dodridge
Hunter, William C.
Renfro, William Hampton
Hyman, Joseph
Reynolds, Albert Milton, P. M.
Jourdain, Pa trick R. S.
Robinson, Don Alonzo
Keathley, William Thomas
Robinson, Lesiie D.
Keeling, Herbert Venn, P. M.
Sanborn, Charles A.
Kellogg, Clarence William, P. M.
Sayre; Burt Geung
Kelsay, John S.
Sayre, Morton Smith, P. M.
Lane, William Ralph, P. M.
Schweers, Harvey Tillmon
Lang, George August
Sleeper, Ed
Lawson, Clyde Eldred
Smith, William Thomas
League, James Neal
Sylar, Daniel Patton
Levy, Aaron
Sylar, John L.
Levy, Joseph
Sylar, George William
Levy, Samuel
Utter, Joseph Perry
Lundborg, Konrad Magnus
Voss, George Hei11.rich
Marley, Leonard Harrison
Webb, William Henry
Mathews, Shafter, P. M.
West, Wirt Mercer
McClure, John Frank, P. M.
White, David Edward
McCoy, General Hugh
Whitman, Adora Abial
Mcintire, David Floyd
Williams, David
Meddaugh, Oscar Edson
York, Charles Roy
-104
WITHDRAWN:
McCoy, Alvin Monroe

Rideout, Winslow L.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Clemensen, Peder
Atherton, David Hooper
Biggi, Angelo A.

DIED:
Gallino, George W.
McLean, Daniel

ROSTER

298

TRUCKEE LODGE, No. 200.
Truckee, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday of each month.
OFFICERS:

George Carson, Master,
Francis James Muldoon, Chaplain,
Truckee, Cal.
Claud Wm. Pickering, Senior Deac.,
Samuel R. Cupples, Senior Warden, Alaric Deseve, Junior Deacon,
George Frank Kelley, Junior Ward., William Stelzer, Marshal,
John Fay, Treasurer,
Grant Watkins, Steward,
Charles Adam Ocker, Secretary,
Joseph Harry Sanders, Steward,
Truckee, Cal.
Irving Francis Harvey, Tyler.

Adolph, Jacob Frederick
Agnew, David
Barton, Charles Henry, P. M.
. Blinn, William Oscar
Bliss, Charles Tobey
Bliss, George Russell
Bodkin, Frederick John
Bofinger, George Herbert
Braunwarth, William
Bryant, George Waldo
Cameron, Ashley Duncan
Canning, James Smith
Carpenter, Harry Hancock
Cecil, James Edwin
Champion, Francis
Champion, Josiah
Carson, George, P. M.
Coyan, George Ellsworth
Crabtree, John Quincy
Crawford, Thomas
Cullen, Thomas
Cupples, Robert John
Cupples, Samuel R., P. M.
Davie~, Llewellyn
Delaney, John
Deseve, Alarie
Dolan, J ease CasJl'er
Doyle, Paul Maurice
Eveland, George Hamilton

MEMBERS;
Fay, John
Fleming, Charles Edgar
Flickinger, William Amberly
J<'ollett, Samuel Alger
Franzini, Morris
Frazier, Charles Edward
Freeman, Edgar Daniel
Giffen, George Washington
Giffen, Thomas Jefferson
Gifford, Gunee F.
GlaBB, James
Gordon, Peter Henry
Gowling, Joseph ·
Gracey, Robert Christian
Guise, Sidney Franklin
Hartwell, Oliver Albert
Harvey, Irving Francis, P. M.
Herzog, Fred
Hilton, George William
Hirschler, Gustav David
Hunt, Eugene William
Johnson, Martin G.
Kelley, George Frank
Koepke, Robert Charles
Kruger, Eugene
Lapoint, Leence Francois
Lawson, Edwin Stewart
Leach, Daniel Walter
Lewison, J aeo b Louis

ROSTER
Lichtenberger, Henry Charles
Longfellow, Sherman
MaeWilliams, Thomas Charles
Madison, Albert William
Mann, Arthur Royal
Marzen, Joseph, Jr., P. M.
Maxsom, Jesse Bellamy, Jr.
MeClaskey, George Herbert
McCullough, Franklin Jenkins
MeGlashan, Chas. Fayette, P. M.
McKay, Robert Gibson
MeLellan, Chai:les Roderick, P. M.
McNary, William Campbell
MePhetres, Daniel, P. M.
Mieander, John
Montgomery, Charters
Moody, Harris Lee
Moody, William
Muldoon, Francis James
Nahl, Constante A.
Niepage, John Gottholdt
Ocker, Charles Adam, P. M.
Oliver, George Davidson, P. M.
Owen, Thomas Jefferson
Owens, Edward Lewellyn
Paris, Ellis Howard
Parker, Samuel, P. M.
Painter, Charles Franklin
Peterson, Andrew J aekson
Patterson, Seward Edgar
Pickering, Claude William

299

Poole, Stephen Buchanan
Poppe, Charles Bernard
Rabe, Augustus Louis
Rath, Frederick Robert
Redmond, Samuel
Remmey, Ralph Waldo Emerson
Richardson, Warren Vincent
Rowe, Herbert
Rutherford, Frank Mitchell, P. M.
Sanders, Joseph Harry
Schneider, A.dam
Schneider, Peter Gottleib
Sharp, James L.
Sherritt, John, P. M.
Shute, John William
Siegel, Charles, P. M.
Smith, Frank Vietor
Spangler, Clyde
Spalding, William Rufus
Steen, Nathaniel
Stelzner, William
Thomas, Charles
Thompson, William
'l'iekner, Alfred George
Watkins, Grant
White, Charles Browne
Whitney, Thomas Byron
Wilkie, William Ferdinand
Young, John Russell
Wilmoth, Howard Wellington, P. M.
-119

DIED:
Shoemaker, David

~OQ

ROSTER

~OSTER

SILVEYVILLE LODGE, No. 201.
Dixon, Solano Comity.
Stated Meetings,' first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Aubrey Austin Collier, Chaplain,
John Ludwig Nagel, Master,
Dixon, Cal.
Francis Freeman Marshall, S. Dea.,
Angus Combs Madden, S. Warden, Alexander Johnson, Junior Deacon,
Harry McFadyen, Marshal,
Stuart Grady, Junior Warden,
John Henry Rice, Treasurer,
Ellis Walton Fountain, Steward,
Isaac Freeman Beckley, Steward,
John Devana Grady, Secretary,
137 B Street.
Charles M~rti~ Kirby, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Almeda, Antone Souza
Johnson, Alexander
Baker, William
Johnson, John Dwinell
Beckley, Isaac Freeman
Kelly, Benjamin Franklin
Kidwell, Claud Bradley
Bessac, Henry William, Sr.
.lienck, Carl Johannes
Kirby, Charles Martin, P. M.
Bissell, Harry
Little, George Arthur
Madden, Angus Combs
Carpenter, Milton Plummer
Madden, Winfield Rightmire
Clark, John Jackson
Clark, Crawford Calvin
Marshall, Francis Freeman, P . M.
Uollier, Aubrey Austin, P. M.
Martin, Jamee Philip
Martin, John Brinckerhoff
Coover, John Edgar
McBain, James Alvah
Currey, Robert John, P. M.
McElwaine, Ro:t>ert
Currey, Robert Spencer
Downs, George McClellan
McFadyen, Harry, P. M.
Dudley, Earl Delmar
Morse, George Wyman
Moss, Rowland, P. M.
Eppinger, Herman, P. M.
Nagel, John Ludwig
Ettlinger, Bernhard
Nudd, Elmer Ellsworth
Fischer, Carleton Edwin
Pedrick, William Stonem11n
Fountain, Ellis Walton
Garnett, William Henry, P. M.
Peters, Henry
Grady, John Devana, P. M.
Petersen, Jorden Henry
Plummer, Charles Edward
Grady, Park Edwin
Grady, Stuart
Randall, Frank Henry
Grove, Henry Clay
Riee, Carroll McFadyen
Grove, John Calvin
Rice, John Henry, P. M.
Hall, Lester Parker, P. M.
Robbins, Edward Everett
Hill, Joseph Silver
Rockwell, Myron Salsbury
Holly, Jesse Blaine
Rogers, Thomae Gilbert
Hutton, Fred Albert
Roe11, Albert Thomas

Schmeiser, Carl Edward
Schulze, Gustave D.
Schulze, Herbert Alexander
Smith, Leonard B.
Spangler, Nevin Ray
Steans, Henry Gerald
Steinmiller, George
Stephens, Carroll Harden
Stephens, Robert Edmund Lee

301

'l'imm, Charles Richard
Timm, Henry R.
Timm, Henry William
Thomas, Wade Frank
Thomsen, Jens Peter
Ulsteen, George
Ulsteen, John G.
Uren, Thomas Henry

-75

DIED:
Gates, Thomas Milton

PENTALPHA LODGE, No. 202.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Isadore Frenkel Whomes, Master, James Dezell, Chaplain,
Security National Bank
John Tomlinson Griffith, Sen. Deac.,
Francis Marino Parker, Sen. Ward., Charles Rubins Miller, Junior Deac.;
Melville Austin Sheldon, Jun. Ward., Wm. Henry Clay Ness, Marshal,
William Rhodes Hervey, Treasurer, Edgar Harris Cline, Steward,
William P. Musaus, Secretary,
James Deacon Taggart, Steward,
605 Fay Bldg.
John Osborne Wiggin, T)•ler.

Adams, Earnest Bennett
Adams, George Price
Adame, William
Addison, Rufus Choate
Allen, Herbert Smith
Allen, William Sayre
Anderson, John Thomas
Anderson, William Felix
Armstrong, Charles Wesley
Armstrong, William Delano
Arnold, George Leonard
Atchison, James Roberts
Atwell, Thomas
Averill, George Edward
Avery, Rob~rt Henry

MEMBERS:
Ayres, Henry Washington
Bacon, Frank William
Baerthlein, Albert William
Bailie, Charles Girvin
Bailey, Ralph Waldo
Bair, Darius H.
Baker, Rouie Brown
Balch, Allen Christopher
Balsiger, Henry Walter
Barber, William Marshall
Barclay, David Eric
Barlow, Allison
Barto, Fred Oliver
Barton, Herbert Parks
Baumgardt, Bernhard R.

302

ROSTER

Beach, Oscar Clarence
Beamish, William Maitland
Beattie, Robert Fountain
Beckett, Wesley Wilbur
Behrens, Herman Albert
Behymer, Glenarvon
Belcher, Harry
Benbrook, Charles Mallaru
Bennett, Albert Alfred
Benz, Carl Dold
Berner, Gustav Emanuel
Beschor, Gustavus William
Best, John
Bingham, Hubert Abel
Birth, Otto Fred
Blackwood, John Howard
Blake, Charles Wesley
Blake, Clarence Howard
Blakeley, Harry Bowen
Blossom, Edmund Wheadon
Blumve, John Augustus
Booth, Harry
Bonynge, Walter Alfred, Jr.
&rtells, Frank Lily
Borthistle, John Jacob Hamilton
Bosbyshell, Edward Christian
Boswell, Frank Moore
Bower, Euzema Clarence
Bower, Leland Sanborn
Bowers, Alex. Forrester Neill
Bradrick, George Marion
Brain, Webster Cook
Brewer, John Aukeney, P. M.
Brian, David
Brill, William
Brossmer, Sigmund
Brown, Charles Henry, P. M.
Brown, Clement A., P. M.
Brown, Frederick Arthur
Brown, John Alexander
Brown, Paul Clifford
Brown, Robert Rufus
Bryant, Albert James
Bull, Ingail William
Bulla, Robert Nelson

Burke, William Edward
Burns, Thomas Walter
Butler, Willard Wall
Calder, James Squair, P. M.
Calkins, John Summerfield, P. M.
Cason, Edward Woodburn
Caswell, William Mitchell
Cavanaugh, Charles Michell
Chambers, Richard Henry
Chase, Charles Wheeler
Chipron, Arthur Paul
Church, Stephen Hayes
Churchill, David Lawrence
Clark, Herbert Hamilton, P. M.
Clemens, Nicholas
Clement, William Arthur
Cline, Edgar Harris
Cline, Ross Carroll
Cobb, Edward Sigourney
Cochran, Harry Lacy
Cochran, William George
Cocke, John Vinton
Coddington, Fred Elmore
Coldwells, Joseph Arthur
Joie, Jerrett Water
Cole, Thomas Andrew
Collins, Burton Vincent
Collom, Charles Dwight
Connett, Harry
Coon, Willard Judson
Cooper, Henry Hill
Copes, Jacob Marion
Copps, Alfred Sumner
Cottle, Rainsford Esnor
Cridland, Edwin Louis
Crouch, Harry Bryon, Jr.
Currier, Ezra Newton
Curry, Elvin James
Cuzner, James
Davies, John Roland
Davis, Edwin Ransome
Day, George William
DeCamp, Clarence Eastman
De Harok, Francis
Devins, Charles Alonzo

ROSTER
Deyoe, Fred Theodore
Dezell, James
Diamond, Charles Boardman
Dilly, Louis
Dougall, John Park
Drullard, Howard Raymond
Duncan, Hugh Welch
Duncan, Rex Dowler
Dunsmoor, Cylos Taylor
Eagon, Henry Charles
Eakins, Herbert Pingle
Earl, Edwin Tobias
Eberle, Franz Xaver
Eckardt, Hugo
Eckley, Frank Knight
Eckley, William· Henry
Eckman, Arthur Wilson
Edwards, David Kitzmiller
Eldridge, Septimus Tustin
Ellis, Albert Max
Ellis, Morris
Engle, William Henry
Enyeart, Clarence DeRuyter
Erwin, Thaddeus McFarland
Estes, Donald Keith
Fargo, Dwight
Fellows, Alfred
Ferguson, William
Fisk, Charles Edward
Fleishman, Adolf Gabriel
Fleming, Richard L~e
Ford, George Oscar
Ford, Joseph Drouillard
Foster, James
Foulkes, Thomas
Francie, Ira Johnson
Francisco, John Bond
Fry, Abraham
Fulkerson, Tunison
Furrey, William Cobbett
Gardner, Gilbert Emery
Genrich, Henry Francis
Gibson, Edward David
Gibson, Hugh Simons
Gilbert, Charles Silliman

Gill, William Henry
Ginaca, Camille Armand Joseph
Gist, Charles Wooster
Gist, James Black, P. M.
Glasgow, Alfred Stevens
Goodhue, James William
Graham, Archibald Douglas
Granger, Louis Symonds
Griffith, John Tomlinson
Guthrie, Arthur Stanley
Guthrie, Edward Marshall
Haab, Benjamin Albert
Hagerty, Harry Guy
Hale, Francis Seraph
Hall, Charles
Hall, George
Hamilton, Albert Newell
Hamlin, Ralph Cunningham
Harding, Charles Wesley
Hart, Frank John
Hartmann, Frederick Charles
Hartup, Edmund
Hatch, Homer Lee
Hawgood, Harry
Hayes, Louis Augustus
l!effel:fi.I\ger, Raymond Wiley
Hellman, Irving Herman
Henderson, David Cockran
Henderson, John Armstrong
Hepp, Adolf
Hervey, William Rhodes, P. M.
Herr, George Frederick
Hetherington, Isaac
Hewitt, Leslie Randall
Hewitt, Randall Henry
Hiller, Sidney Warner
Hilliard, Samuel William
Hinman, Clifford Irving, 'f·, M.
Hitchcock, Harry Symington
Hobock, William Cates
Hofer, Albert Ray
Holmes, William Taylor
Holton, George Mortimer
Hoppins, Henry Isaac
Horwitz, Samuel

303

304

ROST EB

ROSTER

Latterner, Frederick Henry
Houeelibe, William John
Law, Horace
Howard, Perry Alonzo
Lawrence, John
Hudson, Frank Dale
Leake, Edward
Huebsch, Charles Frederick
Lester, William George
Hughes, Henry West
Levy, Leander, P. M.
Hunnewell, William Bowne, P. M.
Lewis, William
Hunter, William Alexander
Lichtenberger, Louis
Hussey, William Clark
Lieber, Louis Otto
Imendorf, Gustav Adolf
Little, William James
Ingels, Thomae Jefferson
Livermore, Philarmon Patten
Innes, Daniel
Long, Edward Haynes
Irwin, Guy Kilmer
Low, Alvin Harrington
Jarrett, Benjamin Samu.!I
Low,
Earl Francis
Jesberg, Paul August
Low, Triumph Crawf_ord
Johnson, Benjamin
Lucas, Charles Fred
Johnson, Martin Edwin
Luebbers, William Bernard
Jones, Cummins Butter1lelJ, P. M.
Lupton, Edwin, P. M.
Jones, Harry Ernest
Maag, Leroy Rudolph
Jones, William Wood
Macleod, Malcolm
Jordan, Elmore Chidister
Madden, Michael Henry
Judson, Richard Paul
Marble, Byron Monroe
Judson, Walter Horace
Martin, Julius Herbert, P. M.
Judy, James Howard
Martin, Russell Clinton
Keeley, Edward Ellsworth
Mason, John Cheney
Keifer, John Henry
Matheson, John Luther, P. M.
Kennedy, William, P. M.
Mathews, William Burgess, Jr.
Killian, Joseph Adolf
Maull, William Knapp
Kincaid, Eugenio Hough
Mayberry, Harry Hauschild, P. M.
Kingsley, John Amos, P. 1'4.
Mayne, William Hawthorne
Kinsel, Ernest Frederick
Maxson, Edmund William
Kirkpatrick, John Lawrence
Mead, Charles Abiel
Kirkwood, George Vandeveer
Merrill, Charles Calvin
Knecht, George Gustave
McCallum, Cyrus Alexancler
Knickerbocker, Niles
McCan,
David Chambers
Knotts, Harry Hope
McClure, John Clarendon
Koepfil, Joseph Otto
McComas, Charles
Kohler, Charles Frederick
Kroeger, GuRtave Christian Theo. McComas, Jesse
McCray, Morrie Lynn
Kuhrts, Jacob
N.cCully, Charles Scott
Kurtz, Eugene, William
McFeely, William Kenyon
Ladner, Albert Edwin
McKeeby, Lemuel Clarke, P. 1'4.
Lamb, Thomas Robert
McKenzie, Charles Bell
Lang, Gustav John
McKirahan, Merlin Evart
Lankershim, James Boon
McMahon, Peter Augustus
Laraia, Joseph Nicholas

MeMaster, Walter Huntington
McNeely, Malachi Toland
McPherrin, Paul Harris
McReynolds, Orval Omar
Melligan, Albert Wood
Meserve, Shirley Edwin
Miles, George Clark
Millard, Marshall Albert
Miller, Charles Rubins
Miller, Frank Henry
Mills, '.Fredrick Shannon
Mills, Theodore
Mohn, George Frederick
Montgomery, James Andrew
Moore, Alfred
Morton, William Ona
Moser, Gregory Frederick
.Mulford, Shobal Patton
Munsey, Fred Edwin
Murray, John Emmett
Musaus, William Purinton, P. M.
Mushet, William Cresswell
Myers, Burdette Richard
Myers, Thomas Chalmers.
Neilson, Thomas
Nelson, William Matthew
Ness, Wm. Henry Clay
Neves, Alsey James
Newell, Guy Amos
Nichols, Thomas Edwin
Nicolay, Ferdinand Fran<.11s Louis
Noble, William
Norton, Lowell Prinston
Noyes, Charles Frederick
Ohse, Albert Edward
Osborne, Henry Zenas, Jr.
Osborne, Sherrill Blasdel
Oxnam, Thomas Henry
Page, Roger Sherman
Page, Samuel Lester
Paonessa, George Clayton
Park, Lee Wesson
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Frank Tudor
20

Parks, Lyman Bertram ·
Parkyns, George Arthur
Pearson, Atlee Rhodes
Pease, Edward William
Pease, Niles
Peipers, Paul Clarence
Pendleton, C. Welles, P. 1'4.
Perkinson, Al Vernon ·
Perry, Irvin David
Peters, Robert
Peters, Samuel John
Pettigrew, Eugene T.
Pfunder, Albert
Phelps, William Rees
Phillips, Edmund Luther
Pickit, Daniel
Pickrell, Esau Addison
Pierce, Clarence Warner
Pierce, John Nelson
Pillsbury, George Eber
Platt, Henry Plummer
Pomeroy, Abram Ehle
Ponedel, Leopold David
Potter, Lewis Arlington
Powell, Thomas
Powers, Luther Milton
Price, Jobn A.
Prince, James
Prine, William Ellsberry
Probasco, Robert Purdy
Purdin, George Chester
Rebert, Charles Louis Eugene
Redding, Elza Leander
Reese, William Buchanan
Reese, William Kirke, Jr.
Register, Henry C.
Reid, Frank Edwin
Reinhart, John Graves
Retzer, George Washington
Reynolds, Elbert Wilson
Rice, Harry Earl
Righetti, Robert
Ritch, Joseph Royal
Robertson, Andrew

305

306

ROSTER

Robertson, Edwin Chase
Robinson, David Elmer
Robinson, William Whipple, P. M.
Rouse, Wylie John
Rowan, Valentine James
Russell, John Newton, Jr.
Ryan, Jame!' Tillman
Salisbury, Samuel Scott, P. M.
Seeley, Calvin Mason
Selover, Sidney, P. M.
Senseney, Anthony Emory
Sheldon, Melville Austin
Shelton, Harry Ashton
Shepard, Abraham Dummer
Sherer, William Walter
Shibley, John Kenneth West
Silverwood, Francis Beatty
Simon, Ernest George
Slaughter, John Louis
Small, Richard Ellsworth
Smart, Carlos Levi
Smith, Everett Russell
Smith, Ira Bacon
Smith, Irving Raynor
Soults, James Kennedy
Southwick, Thomas Smythe
Spencer, Edmond Henry
Stanley, Henry Young
Stanley, Henry Wells
Stavnow, Charles Ashworth
Stephenson, Fred AleL, P. M.
Stewart, William ·
Stimson, Marshall
Stivers, Charles Gaskill
Stoll, Arthur Lincoln
Stoll, George Henry
Stone, Orville Devere, P. M.
Storrow, Samuel
St. Pierre, William Charles
Strathearn, Robert
Sumner, William Alvin
Sutherland, Ed. Paine
Taggart, James Deacon
Taylor, Edward Lloyd
Taylor, William Cylouas

Thatcher, Frank Lawrencl'
Thielen, Ralph Alexis
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin
'l'homas, David Charles
Thomas, Everett Beecher
Thomas, Herbert Ivor, P. M.
Titus, Elmer Maurice
Tompkins, Edward Payson
Topel, Robert Frederick
'l'rain, Robert Farquhar, P . M .
Tresslar, Elkanah P.
Tucker, Edwin Franklin
Turley, Lester Joseph
Tuttle, Victor Hugo
Tyler, Ormond Eugene
Varcoe, George, P. M.
Variel, Robert Henry F.
von Ache, Abram Garriso11
von Ache, Wilson Canard
Wade, Robert David
Wadleigh, George Hutchinson
Wall, William Dillard
Wallace, Thomae William, P. M.
Ward, Harry Clay
Warren, Pickett Latimer
Watkins, William
Way, Archibald Chisholm
Webb, Benjamin Oliver, P. M.
Webster, Julius Elmer Harold
Welch, ·William Henry Seward
Wesler, George
Westra, Andrew
Wheaton, Alonzo
Whedon, Willard Loring
Wheelan, Frank M.
White, Arthur William
Whittier, Henry Frederick
Whomes, Isidore Frankel
Widner, William Burton
Wiggin, John Osborne
Williams, Daniel A.
Williams, George Miller
Williams, Seth Stanley
Williams, William James
Wilmans, Henry Stickney

ROSTER
Wilson, Christopher North
Wilson, James
Winkler, William Carl
Wood, Charles Modini
Woodruff, George Hobart
Woods, William Thomas
Woodworth, John Joesph
Woves, Charles Roth

Wragg, Carl Clifford
Wright, Charles William
Wright, Chauncey Arthur
Wright, John Gibson
Young, Milton Kelly
Young, Thomas Watson
Young, Warren Smith
Younger, Philip

307

-494

WITHDRAWN:
Benckley, Frank Keuth
Dietsch, Curt Oscar
Gehrkens, Christian Magnus

Harms, Herman
Hough, William Arthur
M cConnachie, John

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gray, Benjamin
Stanberry, Donald Warren
Green, Samuel Miles
Stevens, William James
DIED:
White, Harrie Leslie
Herington, Monroe Davis, Jr.
Bodman, Richard Stuart
Hudson, Josiah Whitcomb
Boothe, Charles Beach
Lea, Homer
Burns, John
Sanborn; Eugene Franklin
Cunningham, Robert Gilmore
Stein, Frederick William
Eddy, Frank Cowan
Stewart, George Hadley
Edwards, Alfred Hannibal
Winthrode, Frank Cunningham
Gilham, William Thomas
LeMasters, James Calvin
Stearns, Ernest Roger

CONFIDENCE LODGE, No. 203."
Castroville, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Vv'alter Charles Buttle, Master,
] oseph Northrop, Chaplain,
P acific Grove, Cal.
Christopher Dudley, Senior Deacon,
Harry John Hall, S enior Ward1m, Andreas Andersen, Junior Deq,con,
Manuel M. Silva, J u11ior Warden, Ludwig Hansen Schmidt, Marshal,
Thomas Phineas Clark, Treasurer, Albert J . F oster, Steward,
Robert Henry Martin, Secretary,
W ard A. Crofeet, Steward,
Castroville, Cal.
Thomas P. Labree, Tyler.

308

ROST EB

ROSTER

MEMBERR:
Hall, Harry John
Andersen, Andreas
Johnson, Hans Nelson
Black, Victor Delmas
Labree, Thomas Prince
Butler, Albert Newton
Lang, Frank Herbert
Buttle, Walter Charles, P. M.
Martin, Robert Henry
Brown, Clinton Edward
Miller, John Edward, P. M.
Chappel, Thomas
Northrop, Joseph, P. M.
Clark, Charles Thomas
Schmidt, Louis Hansen
Clark, Thomas Phineas
Sherfeck, John Moffat
Collins, Raymond Leslie
Silva, Manuel M.
Collins, Walter Ross
Skaarup, Nels Peterson
Dudley, Christopher, P. M.
Uttley, George
Estabrook, Clarence Robert
Whitcher, Charles Rose
Foster, Albert J.
Wilson, Lew H.
Hall, Ambrose Henry

-28

SALINAS LODGE, No. 204SaUnas, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings third Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Rossi, Senior Deacon,
F . Eugene Dayton, Master,
John A. Anderson, Junior Deacon,
Salinas, Cal.
Louis Schneider, Marshal,
Robert Warnock, Senior Warden,
Robert D . Logan, /utiior Warden, David W. Dower, Steward,
Ray P. Macquoid, Steward,
Charles J. Whisman, Treasurer,
Joseph A. G. Adcock, Tyler.
Francis A. Abbott, Secretary,
Salinas, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Austin, Walter Pike
Abbott, Arthur Johnson, P. M.
Ball, Henry Seymour
Abbott, Carlisle Stewart, P. M.
Bardin, James Alfred
Abbott, Edwin Kirk, P. M.
Beek, John A.
Abbott, Francie Alvin, P. M.
Bell, Harry G.
Abbott, Harvey Eldon
Bell, Thomas E.
Alexander, Elmer Pendleton
Benson, William Henry
Alexander, John King, P. M.
Bernt, Daniel Martin
Adcock, Joseph Anthony George
BE>rtlesen, Werner
Anderson, Cecil Melville
Black, William Madison
Anderson, John Alexander
Blanchard, Charles N.
Anselmi, Charles Pasqual

Bromley, George Alfred
Brassel, Edmond Horace
Burke, Charles Ephram
Cahoon, Jamee
Chandler, Benj. Bradley, P. M.
Clark, Mark Carr
Collins, John F .
Cook, Thomas W.
Coons, George M.
Cornett, Ingolf B.
Day, Frank Beardsley
Dayton, F. Eugene, P. M.
Dethelfsen, Mark
Dom, Carl Deloe
Dower, David W.
Duncan, William Thomas
Dumer, Fred W.
Edwards, Thomas Clay, P. M.
Faulkner, Geo. Francis, P. M.
Faw, Thomas Phelix
Feliz, Frederick P.
Fenton, Edward
Fenton, Louis Edward
Forster, Charles Alfred
'Foster, John Handle
Fulle, Charles J.
lr1over, Glen Archibald
Gordon, Samuel Buffington
Grau, Jeppa A.
Greenlaw, Alfred George
Grimes, John William
Hamilton, William John, P. M.
Hansen, Albert C.
Hare, Llewellyn George
Harris, Jamee
Harvey, John H.
Hayward, Harrison Nelson
Hebbron, Edward Lincoln
Hebbron, John James
Rill, Charles Caleb
Hill, Wellington W.
Hill, William Jay, P. M.
Rills, Edwin Miles, P. M.
Hoey, John Craie Frank
Hoffman, Henry

Hollingsworth, Everett Thomas
Hopps, Frank Jacob
Horigan, Jack Matthews
Hughes, Ralph L.
Hunn, George
Hudson, Harry M.
Joy, Charles
Joy, John Green
Joy, Thomas Phair
Kalar, David Gilmore
Keef, Melvin R.
Kelley, John Budd
Kelley, Odell Franklin
Kellogg, Frank Frisbee
Keogh, James
Keoneeke, Adolph
Krauss, Albert Gray
Lacey, Claud Fountaine
Lacey, George Edwin
Lawson, Peter Christian
Lemon, George B. Jr.
Lingsehied, Robert F .
Logan, Robert D.
Maequoid, Ray P.
Madeira, Donald Arthur
Majors, Ergo A.
Malloy, Jamee B.
Malloy, Jamee C.
Martin, William Jefferson
McClary, Samuel Hayes
MeLaine, William Laughlin
Melander, Charles R.
Meyers, Fred
Michell, Fr_ederiek
Murphy, Henry C.
Murphy, James H.
Nelson, John
Nissen, Christian
Norrie, Walter E.
Olsen, John Peterson
Outhier, Clyde B.
Palmer, Jamee
Peaslee, Geoff J.
Petersen, John Frederick
Petty, John Moore

309

ROSTER

310

Phillips, Thomas E.
Peirce, Samuel Cassel
Pioda, Albert Woodbridge
Pioda, Charles Lawrence, P. M.
Porter, D 'Arey Allan
Porter, John Brewer
Porter, Robert Lindsay
Powell, Simeon
Rankin, John E.
Renison, Thomas
Riley, James Ross
Robertson, Alexander, P. M.
Robinson, Ashmun
Robson, Thomas
Romie, Paul T.
Rosendale, Charles B.
Rossi, Edward F.
Salacci, Batisti
Salacci, Mateo

Salkeld, John
Schmechel, Frederick W., P. M.
Schneider, Louis, P. M.
Scott, John B.
Snyder, Jacob
Steinbeck, John Ernest, P. M.
'l'aylor, Lewis Eugene
Thomsen, Arnold
Thompson, Cagie Grand
Thompson, Oscar
Vanilerhurst, Willi.am Michael
Vetter, Philip
Warnoek, Robert
Webster, James Ashley, P. M.
Welt, William G.
Whisman, Charles Joel
Winham, Frederick W.
Winham, Harry
Wood, Homer W.
-150 ·

Masengill, .Tames T.

WITHDRAWN:
Tortenson, Nels Otto

Bennett, John Baron
Duncan, James

DIED:
Tynan, Michael
Vanderhurst, William

ROSTER

311

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Carl
Logan, Allison Robert
Burrows, Ira Ancil
Luce, Isaac Daniel
Burrows, Orlando Arthur
Markham, William Henry
Burrows, Rufus Gustavus, P. M.
Marquis, Francis Marion
Conklin, Marena Lafayette
McKinley, John
Corrington, Steven Munson
Mitchell, David Edgar
Dyer, Zimri Parker
Mitchell, David John
Flournoy, Thomas Francis
Morris, James Nelson
Flournoy, William Edwin
O'Brien, James William
Foreman, Benjamin Franklin
Price, John Robert
Friday, Michael
Price, Stephen Howard
Hartford, John William
Rupert, William Franklin, P. M.
Houghton, Ansel Miller
Scribner, John Alex. T.
Houghton, Francis, P. M.
Smith, Albert Nutting
Houghton, Oscar William, P. M.
Snelling, Gilbert M. L.
Houghton, Ray Francis, P. M.
Stapp, Walter Hall
Hulen. John Thomas
Stockton, Gabriel Sutherland
Hull, Daniel Mosier, P. M.
Will, Ariel George
Johnson, John William
Winters, Sterling · Price
Knight, Henry D.
-39
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Holderer, John
Markham, Edward Roscoe
Scribner, Henry Alvin
Green, Hiram Renny
DIED:
Osborn, Sullivan

NEWVILLE LODGE, No. 205
Paskenta, Tehama County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.

STANISLAUS LODGE, No.

206.

Modesto, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

Ray Francis Houghton, Master,
William F. Rupert, Chapl<Jin,
Corning, Cal. ·
Daniel Mosier Hull, Settior Deacon,
Carl Anderson, Senior Warden,
Thomas F . Flournoy, Junior Deacon,
Albert Nutting Smith, Jun. Warden, Oscar William Houghton, Marshal,
Ziniri Parker Dyer, Treas•rer,
Isaac Daniel Luce, Sttwat-d,
Anson Marion Houghton, Secretary, Lafayette M. Conklin, Steward,
Corning, Cal.
Allison Robert Logan, Tyler.

OFFICERS:

Andrew Nisson Frost, Master,
William Howard Kirk, Senior Deac.,
Modesto, Cal.
Louis Walter Stevens, Junior Deac.,
Sylvain Simon Latz, Senior Ward., Sanford Warren Cartwright, Marshal;
James Eldred Hostnet, Junior Wat-d.,Thomas Blake Scott, Steward,
George Russell Stoddard, Treasurer, Alvin Monroe McCoy, Steward,
Newton Edward Leek, Secretary;
Charles Henry Griffith, Tyler.
Modesto, Cal.

312

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Richard
Kewin, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Baker, John Robbin
Kewin, William Edward
Beard, Thomas Kennan
Kirk, William Howard, P. M.
Benson, Robert Crewdson
Latz, Sylvain Simon
Bledsoe, Alfred Leroy
Leek, Newton Edward
Bledsoe, Willis
Long, Joseph Johnson
Brown, William Jackson
Macumber, George Dexter
Cartwright, Sanford Warren
McCarthy, George Albert
Cavanaugh, Emi Oscar
McCoy, Alvin Monroe
Clark, Henry Harrison
McQueen, Hugh Albert
Courtright, Charles Milo
Meyer, Alex.
Courtright, Charles Milton
Minniear, Charles Wilson
Craig, Robert,.P. M.
Mourot, Julian
Crowe, Harry Spencer
Muirhead, George A.
Davis, James Alfred
Needham, James Carson
De Lappe, Fred Russell, P. M.
Owens, Alvarado Benson
DeYoe, Nathan Emery
Park, Howard
Downey, Hugh Joseph
Perley, George
Elder, Robert
Phillipe, Robert
Elias, Solomon Philip
Plato, Gabriel David
Elliott, Charles Tappan
Player, Lionel Pagett
Feight, Albert Volney
Rea, Thomas Levi
Foley, Robert Emmett
Scott, Thomas Blake
Francis, Everett Allen
· Severin, Johannes Henry
French, Wm. Oscar
Seversen, Theodore
Frost, Andrew Nisson
Shafer, Claude Stephen
Fulkerth, Loring William, P. M.
Shoemake, Albert B.
Goeft'ert, George Stepp
Sloan, Charles Edmund
Goeffert, Victor Virgil
Smith, Burton
Green, George Ernest
Spenker, Joseph Christian Theo.
Griffith, Charles Henry
Sperry, Charles Alvaro
Gwin, Wm. Kanada
Stafford, John Ivy
Harp, James David
Stevens, Louis Waiter
Hartman, Lewis Clinton
Stevens, Thomas Newton
Hatch, Herbert M.
Stevens, Walter Albert
Hatton, William Henry, P. M.
Stoddard, George Russell, P. M.
Hawkins, Jared Waldo
Surrhyne, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Hennemuth, John Louis
Swan, Charles Donald, P. M.
Holeman, John Westley
Swegles, William
Hosmer, James Eldred
Thompson, David B.
Johnston, Herbert Francis
Tregea, William Leonard
Jones, Claud Lee
Turner, John Daniel
Jones, Edward Rowe
Vogleman, Henry

ROSTER
Warner, Myron
Weil, Jacob George
Weyer, Frederick Karl
Weyer, Gustavus Adolphus

Whitmore, Vaughn Daniel
Williams, Owen Henry
Wood, Harry Jacob
Yates, John David

313

-94

WITHDRAWN:
Meinecke, Edward
DIED:
Bailey, Robert Covert

Cameron, George Washington
Zander, Frederick Henry

ANAHEIM LODGE, No. · 207.
Anaheim, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, third Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:

,

Abbey, Earl Russell
Adams, Henry Martin
Adams, Walker Willis
Asher, Isadore
Barr, Erwin
Beebe, Bir.d Valentine
Bigham, John Sterling
Boege, Charles Arthur
Bradford, Albert Hartwell
Bradford, Albert Sumner, P. M.
Cailor, Otto Tad
Chambers, William Henry
Chamberlain, Clarence Edwin
Champion, Frank Walter
Coleman, Wm. Dallas
Crowther, Walter Henry
Crowther, William, P. M.
Davis, Albert
Davis, Rufus Alanzo
Draper, Robert E. Lee
Elbinger, John Christian
Enearl, James Henry

Eygobroad, Charles Henry
Falkenstein, William, P. M.
Fergus, Oscar Warren
Gardiner, Alex.
Gibbs, Frank Nelson
Gifford, Gustavus Adolphus
Goodrich, Elmer Lovel
Grimshaw, Thomas Spencer, P. M.
}fartfield, Bernard
Hatzfeld, Julius Philip
Helmsen, Joseph
Heydekampf, Arthur von
Hill, Oliver
Hoag, Thomas Lee
Holcomb, Chester E., P. M.
Hollingshead, Chas. Mortimore
Holman, Sidney
Houck, Frederick Horn
Hutt, James Hagar
Jackson, George
Johnson, Alexander
Johnston, James Robert Holmes

ROSTER

ROSTER

314

Knapp, James Allan, P. M.
Krebs, Richard
Krick, Philip Hermann, P. M .
Lagman, Octave Antonie
Lagorgue, Frank Reed
Lee, Fred Wesley
Martenet, Morris Wampler
McLauchlin, William
McNelley, Wallace Hiram
Miller, Louis Everett
Mullinix, Oris Albert
Nagel, August
Olmstead, Edward Lamont
Paschall, Samuel Jefferson
P11arson, Harry Barkman
Pickering, James McKenzie
Porter, Arthur Lee, P. M.
Quarton, Wesle,v Pocklington
Resh, John
Rockwell, Wm. Henry
Rogers, Barnett G.
Root, Jasen B.
Sandilands, Gerald Warrenden

Schade, Gustav
Schwenckert, William Otto F.
Shank, Clyde Earl
Sloop, George W aehingfon
Spielman, Harry Garfield
Spoerl, Richard Carl
Teel, Samuel David
Tiederman, Henry
Tipton, Will Silae
Van Derveer, Jacob L.
Waldorf, Creighton 0.
Walker, Jc;ihn Franklin, P. M.
Wallop, William Thomas
Webb, Clyde Vernon
Webb, William Philip
W eieel, Peter Joseph
Wickett, William Herald
Wiese, Fred
Wilson, Clarence John Ramsey
Wilson, Robert
Wittmer, Jacob
Youngbluth, Frederick August

-89

WITHDRAWN:
Riniker, Henry

RIO VISTA LODGE, No.

208.

Rio Vista, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Church, Mark Israel
Church, Smith Calvin
Davis, Charles Kirkpatrick
Donald, Roberi
Dirr, Henry John
Dozier, Edward Charles, P. M.
Dozier, Mortimer Roberts, P. M.
Emigh, James Livingstone
Emigh, Milton
Emigh, William Jarvie
Fleischer, Benedict
Gloff, August, P . M.
Hamilton, Ivan Knox
Hamilton, James William, l'. M.
Hamilton, Neil Russell
liansen, Henry Wilson
Hollenback, Albert Harry
Hoyt, Julian Buel
Herzog, Emil
Jordan, George Albert
Kelley, Albert Gallatin
Lewis, Thomae George
Lindsay, Orville Andrew
Makemson, Winfield Scott
Markawitz, Abram Jack
:McCormack, John
McCormack, Thomas

Mortensen, Jens Peter
Nicholl, John Robinson
Perry, Horace Grant, P. M.
Pollard, Louis Elmer
Pressley, William Burrow!I, P. M
Proctor, George Lawrence
Rainwater, Leo Jasper
Rice, Cyrus
Robinson, John
Rush, John Nelson
Smith, Frank Barton
Smith, George Harrison
Smith, George Richard ,
Stanton, Jed Clarke
Stewart, Daniel C.
Stewart, David Alexander
Stewart, Harry; Kerrison
Stewart, Matthew, P. M.
Stewart, William Alex.
Talbert, John
Talbert, John Milton, l'. M.
Timm, William Delbert
Titherington, Frank
Totman, William Nuell
Turley, .Joseph Ingersol
Weckwerth, Herman
Westgate, Edward William
-60

DIED:
Hamilton, James

OFFICERS:

Ivan Knox Hamilton, Master,
Rio Vista, Cal.
Neil Russell Hamilton, S . Warden,
Frank Barton Smith, J. Warden,
John McCormack, Treasurer,
Matthew Stewart, Secretary,
Rio Yista, Cal.

Thomas George Lewis, Chaplain,
William Alexander Stewart, S. Dea.,
Silvera J esus DeSoto, Jun. Deacon,
James William Hamilton, .Marshal,
Harry Kerrison Stewart, Steward,
Julien Buel Hoyt, Steward,
August Gloff, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Christensen, Martin
Brown, James Thomas
Christensen, Christian Frederick
Church, Emery Ephraim
Church, Louis 'Henry, P. M.
Christensen, John, P. M.

316

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Allen, Milton Davis
Adriance, Walter Doughty, l'. M.
Anderson, Leroy
Albertoni, Nicola
Arano, Edward Angel
Akers, Noel Prentice

316
Arbuckle, James Smith
Bailey, John Sherman
Barr, Wm. Jefferson
Bayley, William Stowe
Berry, Edward Harvey
Black, Edward William
Bradford, Walter Wiley
Brooks, Benjamin, P. M.
Brooks, Samuel Wright
Brown, Forrest Elam
.uush, Robert Alfred
Capps, William
Carpenter, ~alter Clyde
Cartwright, Roden Maxwell
Cass, James
Cherry, Frank Wright
Cherry, William Wesley
Clark, Walter Noyes
Colen, Arthur Max
Cook, Neil
Cormack, James
Cottmire, William Lewis
Cox, H. Milo
Crocker, Adolph
Crocker, Jacob
Dart, Leroy Harris
Dawson, Byron Francis
Defosset, Lucien Julius
Donnelly, William Lester
Dorn, Fred Adolphus, P. M.
Duncan, Benj. Coleman
Eastman, Gustave Mawich
Eggleston, Byron Clarence
Elberg, Henry Matthew
Evans, Harry B.
Ewers, Lee Biddle
Fifield, Willard George
Filipponi, Dionigi
Fournier, Ulric Henry
Francis, James Dorsey
Fry, Herman C.
Fry, Pleates
Fuller, William Earl
Fye, Clement Raymond
Gardiner, Ralph

ROSTER
Garrison, Daniel Marcus, P. M.
Gates, Charles Joe
George, John .Thomas
Genter, Irwin Stokes
Gilbert Mathias
Green, Aaron
Green, Abram
Green, Morris
Greenstreet, Harry Ferdinand
Gregg, Paul Mills
Hankenson, Roscoe Ralston
Hansen, William
liarper, Benjamin Young
Hawkins, George Marshall
Heckman, George Clarence
Herzog, Carl
Hickey, James Washington
Hickey, John Haney
Hoff, Marcus Jacob
Holbrook, James
Hollister, John Hubbard
Hollister, John Hubbard, Jr.
Hoppe, Charles Edwin
Humphreys, Charles James
Jack, Fred Bartlett
Jack, Robert. Edgar, P. M.
Jacks, Doniphan Richard
Jackson, Fred Charles
Jackson, Paul Kingsley
James, John Clifton
Johnston, Jewett Miner
Johnson, Chris Louis
Jordan, Edward Morris
Kahl, Arthur Spangenburg
Kalfus, Joseph Leland
Kelshaw, John
Kenner, Wm. John
King, Harlan Clarence
King, Joseph Milton
Kirby, George Edward
Koshland, Max. Isadore
Lake, Herman Wingate
Laloli, James
Lamb, Charles William
Lang, Clarence Cuthburt

·ROSTER
Latimer, Benjamin Griffith
Leaf, Robert Emil.
Lewis, Elmer Merril
Lewis, Jesse Elisha
Lima, Manuel Frank
Lind, Royal Aubrey
Long, Ruben Row
Luchessa, Antonio
Lusardi, John Ferdinand
Lyon, Lloyd Oscar
Marshall, William Thomas
Mason, Arthur Steele
McDowell, James Lee
McLain, Ross Philip
McManus, Lewis Merton
McNeil, Arthur James
Miossi, Bernardo
Meck, Arthur G.
Meck, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Metz, William Henry Harrison
Merrill, Arthur Merton
Merritt, George, P. M.
Miller, Charles Arthur
Moignard, Philip Richard
Morgan, James Aaron
Muenter, Edward
Mulch, Joseph Rudolph
Murphy, Pliny Hayward, P. M.
Murray, Wm. Jackson
Negrich, Thomas Geo.
Nelson, Albert, P. M.
Noah, Louis Meyer
Noble, Joseph Weyman
Osborne, Louis John
Palmer, Charles Wesley
Paul, Arthur
Payne, Il~ward Morgan
Phillips, James Henry
Pittman, William Houston
Post, Albert Merrill
Pozzo, Frank, Jr.
Proper, William George
Raque, Charles Albert
Ready, Phillip Francis, P. M.
Reed, Irvin

Rees, Richard
Righetti, Robertino
Righetti, Robert Marcus
·R ockwell, James Justice
UoRs, George Lincoln
Sanborn, Clarence Kendall
Sandercock, William
Sandercock, William Fred
Schmidt, William
Schoenfeld, David Chester
Schulze, Henry Frederick
Seaton, Joseph Henry, Jr.
Sethma_nn, Charles Joseph
Shaw, Herbert William
Silsby, Bernard Delford
Simpson, Frank Berry
Sinsheimer, Otto Oscar
Sinsheimer, Louis Felix, P. M.
Smith, Charles Ezra
Smith, Frank C.
Smith, Lyman Elbert
Smith, Walter Otto
Sn.ith, Wm. Herbert
Smith, William John
Snyder, George A.
Snyder, Delos Daniel
Spencer, William Harrison, P. M.
Spencer, William Richard
Squire, James
Squire, Robert D.
Stewart, Chas. Wm.
Story, George
Steele, Edgar Willis
Stover, Wm. Miller
Sutliff, Ralph Parker, P. M.
Throop, Francis Horatio
Thyle, Irwin Seymore
Tobriner, Isaac
Trewick, Roger
Tucker, Ira Ward
Turri, Richard E.
Unangst, Edwin Peter
Van Sickle, George Arnold
Ver Veer, Joseph
Vollmer, Edward

317

ROSTER

ROSTER

318

Wiley, Jamee William
Williams, John
Wilson, James Eugene
·Woods, Robert Clay
Woods, Vietor Hugo

Wade, George Willis
Walraven, Francis Wells
Weeks, Lewie Drew
Weir, John Porter
Whicher, John, P. M.

Austin, James Remy

Knight, William

-l!l6

WITHDRAWN:
Staniford, William Buckley
DIED:
McClelland, George Howard

FRIENDSHIP LODGE, No.

210.

San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Washington Worthen, Chap.,
Guy Archibald Vaughan, S. Deacon,
Walter King, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Pash, Marshal;
Jose Edgar Witherspoon, Steward,
Ernest Andrew Abbott, Steward,
William Henry Lamrock, Tyler.

Louis Eugene Wilson, Master,
Cupertino, Cal.
·
John Jacob Schmidt, Sen. Warden,
William Walter Paull, J. Warden,
George Butterfield McKee, Treas.,
Theodore McKay Wright, Sec.,
45 W . Santa Clara Street.

Abbott, Ernest Andrew
Adams, James Franklin
Adame, William Hawkins
Allen, Napoleon Bonaparte
Anderson, Marten Theodor
Anticevich, Anton G.
Arthur, Jamee Gordon
Austin, William E.
Bacon, George Graham
Bailey, Lamartine Edward
Bangs, Fred Herbert
Barker, Charles Alphonse
Barker, Frank Page
Barlow, George Q.
Barry, John
Bauer, Hermann Wilhelm

MEMBERS:
Berr, Augustus William Rudolph
Beckert, Alex. Felise
Bein, Louie Phillip
Bell, Harry Edson
Berdrow, Asa
Bernard, Edwin Price
Bodley, Thomas
Boomer, Preston Hamilton
Borchers, Bernard William
Bostwick, Isaac Davis
Bozelle, Nate Overman
Bragg, George Henry
Brewster, Geo. Washington, Jr.
Briggs, John Gregg
Briscoe, I van Bowen
Broedel, Michael

Brown, Francie Marion
Brownell, Elmer E.
Brownton, Leighton Copeland
Bruch, Louis
Bullard, Arthur Rebard
Burbank, Gideon Webster
Burlingame, Leo D.
Cadwell, Richard Grant
Cambers, Joseph Benjamin
Campbell, Roy Stuart
Carling, Edward
Cauch, Frederick Leslie, P. M.
Centola, Joseph
Chambers, Arthur L.
Chipman, William Fitch
Clegg, Milton Manford
Cook, Joseph Wheeler
Conrad, Earl Va!isea
Coulter, William A.
Cox, William Thorburn
Cozzens, George Washington
Cross, Walter C.
Cureton, Horace
Davie, George Arthur
Denker, William Henry
De Wolf, Ray Le Vern
Dorn, Arthur Lemuel
Drake, George
Draper, Wilbur Harry
Drexler, Henry Otto
Easterday, John Davis
Edmans, Frank Ten E., P. M.
Edmane, Walter John
Edwards, Henry William
Edwards, Wilbur Jame11
Engwicht, Harry
Entriken, Benjamin Frank
Entriken, Roy Lare
Evans, Thomas DeLacy
Ewing, Harry Jason
Falconer, Sherman Deforest
Feldman, Carl Fred
Finley, Samuel Henry
Fisher, Charles Julien
Fisher, Hamilton Henry

Fisher, John Edward
Fitzgerald, George Lee
.Fleming, George Alex.
Folsom, Henry Cathers
Fox, Abraham D.
Fox, Edward
Gable, Harvey Edward
Garnes, John Franklin
Gee, William
Geer, Albert Warren
Gillespie, Walter Weir
Gimme!, Adolf
Gish, Ralph Mason
Gorr, Lewis Lawrence
Gosbey, Perley Francie, P. M.
Graham, John Martin
Grant, Henry Victor
Gray, Albert Maywood
Gripenstraw, Louis Arthur F.
.Haberdier, Oliver Ambrose
Hamilton, Joseph C.
Hansen, John Owen
Harris, Jamee Thomae
Hatman, Frederick Daviu
Hayden, Zachariah Taylor
Hayes, Albert Cummins
Heckenroth, Louie
Hemsworth, William Henry
Heriot, Robert Alex.
Hill, John Tanner
Hines, George Clayton
Hines, William Meredith
Hogg. Charles Henry
Rowe, William B.
Howes, George Averil
Howorth, Frank Herbert
Hunkins, Charles Frederick
Isham, Earl Byron
Jackson, Lewis
Jacobs, Charles Louis
Jenkinson, Wm. Ellie
Jones, Harry Ellsworth
Jones, Percy F.
Jordan, Peter A.
Kent, Herbert Lynd

319

ROSTER

320

321

ROSTER

King, Samuel Walter
Kingdon, George Augustus
Kluge, Theodore Otto
Knight, Isaac Allison
Kocher, Edwin Howard
Kocher, Jacob John, P. M.
Kocher, John Randolph
Ladd, Oscar '1'.
Lamrock, William Henry
Lee, Robert Alex., P. M.
Lemon, George Thomas, P. M.
Lewis, .Tames John
Liddle, James Ward
Lighthall, George Elisha
Lloyd, Wiiliam Thomas
Long, Peter, P. M.
Lotz, Joseph Albert, P. M.
Lunsford, Lewis Monroe
MacBride, Colvin Garland H.
MacNair, Donald Wallace
Magee, Edgar Emmett
Main, Delbert Harold
Main, Earl Paine
Manhire, Alfred William
Mantz, Warner Henry, P. M.
Marckres, Clair Cutting
Marckres, Harvey Austin
Mathews, Henry Davenport, P. M.
May, Frederick
McCornick, Samuel
McCoy, Luther Addison
McDougall, Giles Eggleson
McGinnis, James Sumner
McKee, George Butter.field
McKee, James Franklin
MeLaurin, John James
McNeil, Albert Beebe
Merigot, Albert F rancis, Jr.
Metcalf, Ambrose Burtton
Metcalf, Rhiley Henry
Montgomery, Seymour Thomas
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Moore, George Henry
Moore, John Mitchel
Murgotten, Alex. Phillip

Murgotten, Francis Clark
Maas, William Frederick
Naf, John
Napoli, Joseph
Neame, Edgar Austin
Newcomb, Charles Thomas
Nikirk, Frank Austin
Nikirk, John Hill
Noble, William Worden
Norrish, Joshua
Northern, William Lean<ln
Nott, Edwin
0 'Doherty, Henry Palmer B. ·
Orcutt, Leslie Squire, P. M .
Osgood, Marion Hudson
Pallesen, Christian
Parker, Edwin Byron
Pash, Joseph, P. M.
Patrick, Robert· Wadsworth
Paull, William Walter
Pawley, Casper
Payne, William Arthur
Pearce, Samuel, Jr.
Petersen, John Hans
Porter, Daniel A very
Purington, Byron
Quilty, Frank Edward
R amstad, Albert George
Rasmussen, Christian
Ratz, Frederick Remy
Raven, Walter Leroy
Redmond, Edward
Reese, William T.
Riebsam, Frederick Wallace
Ripperdan, Herold Davis
Rogers, Morgan Protheus
Rogers, William James (1)
Rogers, William James (2)
Ross, Fred Cary
Rothermel, George Lewis
Rouse, Ernest G.
Rucker, William Walter
Ryan, John James
Sarzin, Joseph
Schaaf, Daniel Louis

Schmidt, John Jacob
Schroder, .Albert
Schumacher, Frederick
Schumacher, Frederick W.
Seller, Albert John
Shew, Nathaniel Lawrence
Showalter, Carl Leroy
Shrader, Rufus Woodruf
Shumate, Albert E.
Singletary, Charles Fisk
Skiff, Herman Albert
Small, Charles Kendall
Smith, Bradley
Smith, Francis Adolphus
Smith, Francis Jacob
Smythe, Delos William, P. M.
Soderstrom, Ernest Theo. ·
Sonniksen, Louis
Spitzer, Frank Es.sterday
Stackhouse, Jolin Wm.
Stern, Frederick Marcus
Stevens, Orvis
St. John, Marshall B.
Stone, William Boulogne
Sweitzer, Erwin Francis
Talbot, Grover Cleveland
Thimann, Bernhard Conrad
Thomas, Renel Kent

Gray, Robert B.

Trace, Merrit t Pascoe, P . M.
Trengove, James
Van Dalsem, William Stoddard
Vaughan, Guy Archibald
Von Boden, Bernard H.
Von Dorsten, Henry August
Voshelle, Francis S.
Wnrren, Raymond Edward
Warring, Bert rand, Franklin, P. M.
Weisbach, Lewis Charles
Wells, George Summers
Wetmore, Clyde Timothy
Whift'en, Roscoe Albert
Whipple, Herbert A velyn
Whitehurst, George Arthur
Whitehurst, Joel Shipp
Williams, Charles R.
Williams, William Henry
Willkomm, Adolph
Wilson, Archibald
Wilson, George C.
Wilson, Louis Eugene
Witherspoon, Jose E dgar
Worthen, George Wash., P. M.
Wright, Theo. M cK ay, P.- M.
Young, Clarence G.
'.l:ard, Frank C.
'Guver, Oren L.
-268

WITHDRAWN :
Morrison, Lisle
Trew, Wilfred Carlisle

SU SPEND1£D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Kenyon, George Phineas
Wayland, Elbert F rancis

Jackson, Charles Ellis
Lenzen, Theodore

21

DIED:
Potts, John Samuel
Riebsam, William E.
Smith, Peter Baer

322

ROS'fER

SAN BENITO LODGE, No. 211.
Hollister, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings second Friday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
Clarence Melvin McKee, Master,
Fred Lewis Barnhisel, ChapJai11,
Hollister, Cal.
William Andrew Johnson, Sen. Deac.,
James Alton Cushman, Seniot' Ward., Ralph Richey, Ju1tior Deacon,
Richard William O'Bannon, Jr. Wd., Carl Leonard Ladd, Marshal,
Archie D. McKinnon, Treasurer,
William Bradford Jameson, Steward,
Roderick Shaw, Sect'etary,
Otto John Keating, Stewat'd,
Hollister, Cal.
Freed Antipas Earle, Tyl.er.
MEMBERS:
Gray, Robert Brew
Agnew, Gilmore
Aichele, Robert
Green, Alfonso
Barnhisel, Fred Lewis, P. M.
Greenep, Ernest William
Grubb, Joseph Roy
Bingaman, Joseph Wheeler
Hamilton, Fred .Judson .
Black, William Walter
Hamilton, Judson Gerould, P. M.
Blank, William Henry
Hardin, Richard Owen
Bolton, Eugene Elsworth, P. M.
Hardin, Robert Marshall
Boucher, Joseph
Hinz, Albert Wm.
Briggs, Nash Corwith, Jr., P. M.
Briggs, Nash Corwith, P. M.
Hodges, Clarence Augustus
Hollingbery, William Voss
Brown, Collins Monroe
Hubbard, William
Bruder, Emil Augnst
Hubler, Manuel Pena
Chaney, Willinm, P. M.
llull, Leonard Charles, P. M.
Cole, George Kendall
Hntz, Leonard
Cole, George Washington
.Jamiesen, Wm. Bradford
Cox, George Norris
Jean, Georga William, P. M.
Croxon, Jeremiah John
Jenkins, Elmer Ray ·
Cushman, James Alton
Dalzell, William Francis
Johnson, William A11.drew
Keating, Otto John
Daniels, Charles Mellen
Laad, Carl Leonard, P. M .
Davis, James Philip, P. M.
Davis, John Oscar
Ladd, Leonard Murch
Dean, Bernard
Lauritzen, Christian Otto, P. M.
Lanzenberg, Julius
Dowdy, Elmer
Leonard, Jacob Morton
Dunlap, William Anderson, P. M.
Earle, Fred Antipas, P. M.
·
Lowe, John Thomas
Estes, Gustavus Kendall
Marcum, Leo
French, Theodore Hugh
McConnell, George Montgomery
McCray, Alfred Marion
Fullerton, James

ROSTER
McDonald, Daniel
McDonald, Daniel Alfonso
McKay, Alex. J.
McKee, Clarence Melvin
McKinnon, Archie D., P. M.
Naah, Francis Orlando
Newton, Henry Bascom
Noble, William Francia
0 'Bannon, Richal'd Willi!im
Orr, Albert
Ottolini, Ludovico
Phipps, Franlr Wesley
Richardson, George Horris
Richey, Ralph
Rockwell, Edward D.
Rucklidge, Robinson, P. M.
Seither, Frederick William
Shaw1 George Eden
Shaw, Roderick
Shore, Richard Elijah
Pruett, WilJiam Clifford

Skow, Hans Christian
Skow, Peter Christian Lauridsen
Slatore, James Augu11tua
Steinbeelt, John Adolf, P. M.
Steinbeck, Wilhelm Peter, P. M.
Stephenson, Robert Praxedes
Tebbetts, James Henry, P. M.
Thomas, Leonard Lyo11
Thomasson, Wm. Edgar
Tiffany, Edward William
'.l'itus, Francis Joseph
'!'ran, William Robert
Turner, Albro Griffith
Wagner, Charles Henry
Wapple, George, P. M.
Welch, John Lee
·
Whitten, N ewe]] Ephriam
Williams, Richard B.
Williamson, Herbert Maaroe
Wills, Grant
-98

WITHDRAWN:
Wright, J ohn Am<>s

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Slsore, Frank E.
Harris, Heylin Beaumont

323

DIED:
Wagner, Hiram
Walberg, Lars Erick

SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. 212.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

Masonic Hall, Railroad Avenue.
OFFICERS:
August Frederick Mayer, Master,
Herman Erdwig Rahlman, Chap/aiH,
1623 Palou Avenue.
Charles Clement Thomas, s. Deaco•,
Henry Edward Nolan, Se11. Warden, John Keller, JNnior Deacon
William George Green, Jun. Warde11, Alfred Bothe, Marshal
'
A~o~ph Frederick Fitschen, Treas., Carl Ludwi&" Boehrin;er, Steward,
Wilham J. B. Warner, Secrttary,
William John Schultz, Steward,
l.637 Oakdale Avenue.
James Smart Bailey, Tyler.

324

ROSTER
ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Fairclough, Freeman
Aaquist, Thorwald
Fairgrieve, John
Ashford, John Parker, P. M.
Fetz, Joseph
Aver, Jamee Henry
Fitsehen, Adolph Frederick, P. M.
Bahrs, John Jacob
Flood, Charles
Bailey, James Smart
Fulton, Charles Everett
Bailey, Phillip John
Gillet, John Baptiste
Baraille, John William
Green, Wm. George
Bareilles, Eugene Louis Emile
Haas, Leonard
Beck, Carl Marinus
}:iamilton, James William
Berendsen, Julius
Hamm, Sigmund
Berry, Wm. Anthony
Hansen, Carl
Blank, William
Hansen, Samuel, P. M.
Boehringer, Carl Ludwig
Harde11, Henry John
Bothe, Alfred
Hare, Elias C., P. M.
Bothe, Reinhold
Hare, John S.
Brown, Kenneth March
Harlow, Albert Sylvester
Caubu, Peter
Harlow, George Winfield
Cerf, Emile
Harlow, George Winfield, P. M.
Christeen, Jamee
Harrison,
Ellis
Coehins, Ludwig
Harry, Arshak
Copus, Jay Nelson
Hartwieh, Sophus Ferdinand
Crawehay, Edmund M. A.
Hasse, Arnold
Crystal, William
Hayman, Clifton Renold
Cron, Eugene Charles
Holland, John Paul
Crosby, Horton Jones
Hope, Harvey Robert
Daudibon, Alexis
Hom, Bernard Jeremiah
De Gear, J elferson
Horn, Frederick
De Wall, Oscar Julius
Ingold, Charles August
Desrosier, Charle~ Hercules
Iverson, l'riatlsel'.l Jensen, P. M.
Dieterich, Christian
Jackson, George Edward
Dieterich, William
Johanson, Elis Ragnar
Dippel, John
·
Johnson, Arthur Herbert
Dirks, John Alex. Ceaser
Johnson, Peter Frederick
Dodds, James
Johnson, Wm. Henry
Doran, William Richard
Katz, Frank Philip
Duncan, Franklin Thomas
Kay, David Scott
Dunshee, Cornelius E., P. M.
Kehlenbeek, Henry
Dunshee, Willis Adrian
Keller, John
Dunwebber, Charles Christian S.
Kirsch, Louis Charles
Eggert, August
Kiepert, Charles Frank, P. M.
Elkington, James Edward, P. M.
Klein,
Maurice
Elkington, William Edward
Kollmer, Jacob
Faber, Matthew Peter

l

Koppe, Albert
Krah!, Stephen
Kramer, Louis George, P. M.
Lampley, William Jerome
Levridge, Henry Wm.
Lima, Milford Tolentino de Fiquero
Litchfield, Charles Amica!
Locke, James Brown
Long, Piercy Vincent
Luttringer, Charles
Mahlstadt, Henry
Mangels, Hans Mae. C.
Mayer, August Frederick
Mayer, Frederick Christian, P. M.
McDonald, James Alex. John, P. M.
McDonald, Simon McGregor, P. M.
MP.Donald,. William, P. M.
McDowell, Thomas
McPherson, Charles Edward
Mead, Ray
Meley, Frank
Merritt, Edwin Ashley
Merwin, Clarence Wm. Frederick
Michael, David David
Miller, John Edward
Miller, Samuel
Milly, Charles
Milly, Charles Amond
Milly, Joseph
Mitchell, John James
Moulton, Levi Everett
Morris, Leon Ephraim
Morris, Simon
Muir, William
Muller, C. Alvin, P. M.
Muller, Johan Die Frederick
Mund, Leo
Myers, Jacob
Neilan, Richard, P. M.
Nelson, Charles
Nolan, Henry Edward
Nonnenman, Charle11
Nonnenman, Louis
• Partridge, John Slater
Petersen, Peter

Peterson, James Peter
Pfeiffer, George Peter
Piver, Edward
Potting, Henry Frederick
Quayle, Erhelred Edward
Quinn, James Henry
Rahlman, Harry Frederick, P. M.
Rahlman, Herman E., P. M.
Rapp, Charles Frederick
Rasmussen, Harate
Rasmussen, Walter Gunderman
Riecomi, Frederick Joseph
Rieeomi, George Leo.
Roundey, George H .
Sambuek, Prosper S.
Schenkel, Peter .Joseph
Schultze, Albert Walter
Schultze, August Henry
Schultze, William Frederick
Simpson, Josiah Adam
Skelly, Thomas
Smale, William James
Smith, George Bebington
Smith, Henry
Smith, Jame!' Rasmussen
Soares, Joseph Dias
Stamps, James Murray
Strahle, Paul Charles
Strieker, Henry
Stumpf, John
Stumpf, Peter Benjamin
Suhr, Geo. Louis
Symon, Samuel Collins
Symon, William MeSagan
Tanner, William
Terrill, John Gladding
Thomas, Charles Clement
Thompson, Charles
Todd, David Byron, P. M.
Uhlenberg, Chester H.
Ulenberg, Peter Hansen
Valente, Joseph L.
Wamer, William John B., P. M.
Wedemeyer, Bernard Henry
Welch, James Millar

325

ROSTER

ROB'l'ER

326

Willment, Chas. Henry
Wells, James Rodrick
Wilson, John Archibald

Wolter, Herman Matthew
W orsdale, Henry
Zimmerman, Philip

-182

WITHDRAWN:
Felt, John William

Kuhlman, Dieterich
Moffatt, Henry
Pedersen, .John Peder

DIED:
Reiser, Edwin Olher
Reusch, Jacob
Taylor, James King

SAN BUENAV_ENTURA LODGE, No. 214.
Ventura, Ventura County.
Stated Meetinp, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFlCERS:
Milton William Philip$, Master,
James Blackwood Stone, Chaplain,
Scott Milton Wilson, S . Deacon,
Ventura, Cal.
Delbert Arthur Reese, S . Wardell, Ernest Harry Frost, Junior Deacon,
Warren Milton Stockwell, J. Ward., David John Reese, Marshal,
George Cook, Treasurer,
Rodney Jay Putnam, Steward,
Jacob Lewis Argabrite, Secretary,
Frank Edward Jones, Steward,
Ventura, Cal.
Fred Mercer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andrews, Lewis Whiting
Cannon, Christopher Wren, P. M.
Argabrite, Jacob Lewis
Cannon, Marion, P. M.
Argabrite, Jo1epb Mayo, P. M.
Cavnah, Howard Edward
Arkley, William Wallace
Cavnah, Karl Van Horn
Baker, Frederick Neill
Chaffee, John Hyde
Baker, Frederick William, P. M.
Chrisman, Gilpin Wallace
Barker, James Edward
Clay, Henry
Barnes, George Lynwood
Cook, George, P. M.
Barnard, Frank Everett
Cunnane, Thomas Edward, P. M.
Barnard, Morris Hall
Day, James Allen
Bateman, Walter Watts
DeArman, David Hamilton
Dennis, Frank Jasper
Beckley, Leroy Salsbury, P. M.
Bogart, Mark E. Vander, P. M.
Dennis, George Palmer
Bowker, Donald Glenn
Dennison, David Bodes, P . M.
Dewing, Alonzo Wilson
Bynum, John C.
Calio, Gardner Ranlett
Doty, Frank C!Il"lton, P. M.
Canet, Edward C.
Dunning, Edward E.

Duval, Horace Elmer
Farwell, George E.
Featherstone, James William
:F'o11ter, Eugene Preston, P. M.
Fox, Logan Oscar
Francis, Willard Hugo
Frost, Charles L.
Fraser, Allan Polic
Frost, Ernest Harry
Fulkerson, James Frederick
Gerry, Edmond Waite
Gibson, Wallace Robinson
Giddings, Herbert Alvaro, P. 11/[,
"Giddings, James Horace
Gosnell, Ira
Gosnell, Truman Barrick
Grant, Kenneth Peter, P. 11/[,
Hall, Edwin Seth
Hammons, Harry Valentine
Hallowell, Lyman Earl
Haydon, Richard Nelson
Healy, Charles Edward
Herold, Stanley C.
Hill, Ernest Rice
Hirschfelder, Julius Eli
Hornung, l'aul
Hubler, Rolla Alonzo
Hunt, Richard Orville
Johnson, George Wing
Johnson, Walter Edson
Jones, Frank Edward
Jones, Paul Howell
Kilson, George Elmer·
Lamb, Robert Bertram
Lemmon, Charles Fisher
Lincoln, Leslie Eul
Lincoln, Willis Phillip, P. M.
Marple, James Albert
Masterson, William Wesley
1dcCandless, Benjamin Wright
McFarlane, John
McGuire, William
McKay, John Daniel
McKay, John William
Menzel, William

327

Mercer, Fred, P. M.
Moss, Earl Edwa.d
Neel, Henry Har:rison
Neel, Thomas Wm.
Newbauer, Joseph Sigimond
Newby, Thomas Sheridan
Nideffer, Rowe Ricker
Olsen, Carl Peter
Overmire, Milton Strader
Peck, Henry EMingto'll.
Philippe, Milton W.
Poplin, Adley Greenfield
Power, George Coffin
Pringle, Lewis Av~
Putnam, Rodney Jay
Randall, George M.
Rasmussen, James Peter
·
Ready, Charley E dwin
Ready, Lester Seward
Ready, William Edward, P. M.
Ree11e, David John, P. M.
Reese, Delbert Arthur
Reynolds, James Edward, P. M.
Rit·henbaker, Harry. Charles
Robinson, Richard Owen
Rogers, Merle John, P. M.
Roth, Joseph
· Sackett, George Lincoln
Selby, Edward Milton
Sexton, James Findley
Sexton, Walter Ralph
Sheldon, Charles Henry
Slosson, Leonard Butler
Spier, Thomas Wm.
Stockwell, Warren M.
Stone, James Blackwood
Sudden, Robert Cowperwait
Taylor, Scott Freeman
Thurmond, Gwyn D.
Todd, Theo.
Toland, Thomae Orlando
Turner, William Henry
Van Delinder, Harry Ray
Vincent, Arthur L.
Wadleigh, Fred H.

J

ROSTER

ROSTER

328

Wilde, Wellington Goodwin, P. M.
Willett, Muktar
·
Wilson, Scott Milton '
-131

Wadleigh, Orville Austin
Walker, James Alfred
Walker, James Russell
Wilcox, Wm. Calvin

WITHDRAWN:
Barnes, Earl Elsworth

Barnes, George Silverman

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Cannon, William Htirschel
Reese, George Llewellyn
Vincent, William Cluett

Crandall, George Brady

DIED:
Daly, Thomas Heury

OAK GROVE LODGE, No.

215.

· Ala.meda, Alameda. County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OF.HCEliS:
Charles Alexander Allardyce, Master, Benjamin Salsbury McFarland, C.,
2251 Buena Vista Ave., Alameda. Otto Henry Fischer, Sen. Deacon,
Henry Ferguson Strachan, S. W.,
Henry George Ilderton, Jun. Deacon;
Henry Christian Lassen,/. Ward., William H. Worden, Marshal,
Henry Miller Hammond, Treasurer, Frank Billington, Steward,
Oswald Lubbock, Secretary,
Spencer William Brown, Steward,
Box 12, Alameda, Cal.
George Sturtevant, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Chas. Tvenstruz
Abrahamson, Frank Berna.rd
Ackroyd, Eli Peddie
Addison, James
Adison, Samuel
Aitchinson, Gavin
Albertson, Albert Geo.
Allardyce, Charles Alex.
Angelo, Wallace Purmort
Anthony, Edward Requa
Bacon, Lewis Goodwin
Bailey, Edward LaForge
Bailiff:, Conlin

Bancroft, Harlow Palmer
Barber, Jamee Burton, P. M.
Barstow, Frank Edward
Barstow, Joseph Nathaniel
Bartell, Harry
Barton, Phineas Wesley
Bates, Joseph Clement, Jr.
Baurhyte, Wm. H. Moore, P. M.
Baxter, Robert William
Beach, Arthur
Beegle, Charles Warren
Benedikton, John
Benseman, George Adolph

Collier, Richard Henry
Benson, Benjamin Harlow
Collins, James Alfred, P. M.
Benzing, Qhristian
Combs, Burton Elliott, P. M.
Biddle, Edward Samuel, Jr.
Bigelow, Charles Edwin
Conrad, George Edgar
Billington, Frank
Conrad, Joh:i
Coole·y , Walter Wood
Binder, Frederick
Bird, Robert Barnabas
Copeland, William Forest
Birkholm, Soren Gudme
Cormeny, Eugene, P. M.
Blanding, Herbert Bowen
Cornelius, Albert Wardner
Cortelyou, Lockeman Shafter
Bliss, John George
· Counties, Robert Haye
Bolton, George
Courtney, George Henry
Boodt, Jacob
Cramer, Charles Wesley
Bordwell, Frank Victor, P. M.
Culver, Charles Marshall
Borle, Charles Arnold
Daniels, Fred Hall
Born, Aug. Julius Wilhelm
Davis, Samuel Haines
Boyden, James Marion
Davie, William Henry
Bradley, Theo.
Bramman, Henry S. .
Deas, Harry Wigfall
De Berna, Carlos Francis
Branch, Royal Daniel
Decker, Henry Peters
Brevoort, John F.
Decker, Orlando Thomas
Brower, Charles William
Decker, Robert Birtin
Brown, Brainard Creswell
Delius, Auto Ferdinand Vlilhelm
Brown, Cyrus Austin
Dibert, Wayne Clay
Brown, Herbert Hamilton
Dickson, Albert John Hobbs
Brown, Horace Percival
Dill, John William
Brown, Nanowa Theo.
Doane, Thomas Henshelwood
Brown, Samuel H.
Doe, Charles Paden
Brown, Spencer William
Dow, Henry Alvah
Brush, Frank Spencer
Droecher, Frank
Burge, William Woodbridge
Duncan, Thomas Wm.
Buttrick, John Farrar
Dungan, Eugene Leon
Carlson, Harry Christian
Ebbets, Arthur Stevenson
Cameron, James Angus
Eisfeldt, Theo. Adrian
Carpenter, Hugh Slicer
Eiefeldt, William Theo.
Cattermole, Henry John
Eldred, Havila Pembroke
Chapman, Isaac Newton
Ellsworth, John
Chipchase, Chester Garfield
Emmons, George Wellington
Christensen, Peter
Es.c hen, James Carl
Christensen, William Peter
Eschen, James· Niels, P. M.
Christy, James Robert
Eschen. Sidney Lawrence
Chucovich, Stephen Daniel
Espensen, Eapen Niels
Clark, John Russell
Claussen, Henry
Eyre, Manuel Gelwick
Clifford, J oeeph
Finke, Frederick Henry
Fischer, Charles Frederick
Collier, Richard Bartlett Howard

329

330

Fischer, Otto Henry
Fisher, Bertrand Lee
Fleming, Frank Mosely
Foderer, George Stevens
Foderer, Joseph Frank
Fogel, Victor Perley
Fortner, Clinton Alfred
Fowler, James
Frisius, Fred 'k Albert Aug.
Frodden, Volkert Meinert
Furbush, George Ernest, P . M.
Gale, Edwin Gardner
Gentle, Ira Manary
Gibbs, Albert Wm. John, P. M.
Gibson, William Maurice
Gilfillan, James Caimu
Gillogly, William Jay Syms
Glissmann, Henry
Godfrey, Henry Squire
Goodwin, Selden Jewell
Grahn, Walter A.
Greene, Lucius Ellwood
Griffiths, George Chandler
Gucldal, Louis
Guion, Earl King
Hacke, Frederick Henry
Hacke, Henry Christian
Hall, Gilbert Cowles
Hally, :F:rank
Hammersmith, Frank Arthur
Hammersmith, George
Hammond, Anselm Charlel!I, Jr.
Hammond, Charlel!I John
Hammond, Charlel!I John, Jr.
Hammond, Henry Miller, P. M.
Hansen; Hanl!I Thomsen
Harris, Robert Eugene
Haskell, Walter Williaml!I
Haynes, William Ellsworth
Heaney, Frank Noble
Hebrank, Charlel!I Lewis
Hegeland, Harry Rasmus
Heidt, Charles Louie
Helm, Lucien Everett
Helmstein, Carl Leonard

ROSTER
Henderlong, William Randolph
Henderson, John Norman
Henrici, Harry Hermann
Herman, Charles Louil!I
Hesemeyer, Frederick William
Hess, Henry
Hesse, Walter Alex.
Higby, William, P. M.
Hildreth, George Francie
Hiller, Henry Frederick
Hintz, Henry Louis
Hirschfeld, Emil
Hodge•, William B.
Hodgkiss, William Henry
Hoeber, Eugene Green Lee
Hoeber, Harold Hubbell
Holbrook Raymond
liolt, Edward James
Howlett, Frank
Howlett, John Charlel!I
Hughes, Walter Renwick
Hunter, Robert Draper
Hurlbut, Frederick Haynee
Ilderton, Henry George
Inues, Arthur Gray
Innes, Walter Babson
Jackson, Frank Kennedy
Jackson, Joseph Wilson
Jacobs, Alex.
·
Jacobs, Saul Roberts
James, Edward Pond
James, George Lionel
Jamieson, John Cameron, Jr.
Jenkins, Frederick Eugene
Johnson, Chril!ltian Ole
Johnson, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Jones, Emmet Renwick
Jones, George Danna
Jones, Lee Savage
Jones, Ralph Arthur
Jordan, Wm. Henry
Kato, Frans Waldemar
Kaufmann, Emil Hermann
Kebby, Harry Maurice
Kemp, Edward Henry

BOSTER

•

Kenney, Arthur Edward
Kenny, Franklin Augu11tu11
Keyes, Charles Edward
Keys, Ernest Mulford
Keys, Harold Harte
Kiefer, William Colfax
Kilham, Geo. Thomas
Klein, George Henry
Klein, Peter
Kline, Lucien William
Knowland, Joseph Russell, P. M.
Knowles, William Brook
Knudsen, Christian Aug.
Koerber, August
Kollmyer, William Blythe
Konigshofer, Leon Andrew
Kouff, David
Kouff, Maurice David
Kramer, Ralph
Lancaster, Cheater Jackson
Lancaster, Joseph
. Langley, Charles Lester
Langren, Louie L.
Larkin, Amos Stephen
Larsen, Niels Christian
Lassen, Hane Christian
Lassen, Henry Christian
Lehners, Carl Frederick Ang.
Lessig, Charles Herbert
Leu, Adolph Cha!les
Lewis, George Leonard
Leydecker, Arthur Herman
Lipman, Harrison Randolph
Littleton, Walter Dunaway
Lohse, Nicholas
Loop, Frank Sumner ·
Lovejoy, Edward Bell, P. M.
Lubben, Frederick
Lubbock, Oswald
Luderman, Henry William
Lum, William Tappan
Lutgen, John
Mackie, Alex.
Magagnol!I, Charles Plumne:r D.
Magill, Robert Henry

331

Margrave, Charles Edmond
Marshall, Sidney Smith
Martin, David Chel!lter
Mutin, David Wilkins
Martin, Wilsie Manning
Mason, Fred 'k. Eldredge
Mccomber, Frank Kerrick
McFarland, Benj. 51'-liebury, P. M.
McFarland, Franei11 Wattl!I
McFarland, Warren H. Sa.Isby
Mciver, Gilbert Leslie
McNutt, James Henry, P. M.
Meinecke, Henry George
Melrose, Charles Francie
Merriman, George Marl!lball
Merriam, Harnden W allaee
Merriam, Horace Robert
Mesick, Samuel Peter
Meyers, Henry Haight
Minor, Robert
Mitchell, Henry Thomas
Mitchell, Sidney George
Mitchell, Sidney Valentine
Mock, Arthur, P. M.
i•foller, Jacob August
Moore, Fred Thompson
Moulthrop, Horace Lankton
Mundwyler, John Lewis
Munthe, Daniel Peter
Nelson, Hane
Nelson, Marius
Nield, Jol:n Lingard
Nobmann, John Henry, Jr.
Normand, Frederick Will
Norton, Edward Akiba
Noy, William Henry
Nylander, Gustaf Adolf
Oeding, Franz Johannes
Oehlmann, Ludwig
Olinder, William Rudolph
Ormand, William
Owen, George Marshel
Paff, Charles
Pagels, Edward
Parker, Dudley Allerton

ROSTER

332

ROSTER

Paulsmeier, Albert Carl
Penfield, William Henry
Perry, Kirkham Lockhart
Petersen, Andrew Hansen
Peterson, Robert
Peters, Thomas Lynn
Philpot, Charles Henry
Piekthall, Myles
Pierce, George Henry
Plummer, George Elliott ·
Porter, Abel Willard, Jr.
Potts, James
Powell, John Milton
Powell, John Wesley
Priestley, Frank Henry
Pyne, Thomas Ireland
Quast, August F.
Rasmussen, Peter
Rathbun, George Arthur
Ravens, Arthur
Reeves, Herbert Villiers
Reeves, Thomas Villiers
Reimers, Gustav August
Reynold, George Potter
Reynolds, Ralph Gordon
Rhodes, James D.
Rick, Charles Beauregard
Ricldle, Douglas
Riggle, Frank Hagen
Robinson, Jesse
Robinson, Chester Larned, P. M.
Roeder, William Edward
Rogers, Jesse Isaac
Rosenberg, Gay Allender
Rosenberg, Robert Colman
Ross, James
Rounds, John Albert
Rowe, James Roy
Rowe, Walter Philip
Rudbach, John Christian
Rue, Edmond Davidson, P. M.
Rue, Frank Alvan
Russell, James Rainey
Rust. William Jefferson
Sanford, Joseph Warren

Sansom, John Andrew
Sansom, Louis Nelson
Schmalz, Claus
Schmidt, Gustav Ludwig
Sehoenan, Henry
Schneider, Henry
Scott, Arthur Walter
Scovel, Horace Hezekiah
Seymour, Edward Howard
Shear, William Mortimer
Shearman, James Spotiswood
Sheeran, James Andrew
Siegfried, John Christian
Simon, Lucien
Sloan, James Ralph
Smith, Clarence M.
Smith, Weston Orlin
Sonnenberg, Albert
S~rk, John Home
Speddy, Thomae Howard
Spreekels, Richard
Stack, James Henry
Stafford, Auren Alfred
Stallman, Frank Oscar
Starkweather, Haynes Kingsley
.S tephenson, Stanley
Stillwaggon, Frederick Berry
Stocker, Frederick Henry
Stokes, Charles Edward, P. M.
Stracham, Harry FerguBBon
Stratford, Harry Cornish
Strong, Milton Grosvenor
Strunz, Albert
Sturtevant, George
Sullivan, Dennie Joseph, P. M.
Swayne, Robert Henry
Swett, Daniel Storria
Swithenbank, Charles
Taylor, Charles Nielson
Taylor, Edward Kimberlin
Taylor, Henry Reed
Taylor, Morgan Stuart
Taylor, Raymond Eugene
Teller, Harvey Earl
Teller, John de Peyster

Teller, Philip Shepheard, P. N:.
Thau, Albert Harry
'l'homae, Edwin James
Thompson, Clyde L.
Thompson, George Stuart
Thompson, William
'l"ilden, Charles Lee
Tisdale, Charles Lewis
Townsend, Henry Clay
•1·oy, Howey Marshall
'l'uft, Walter Edward
Turner, Myron C.
Van Brunt, William Rc•gor
Van Cott, Alfred Hoagland
Van Orden, Leander
Van Oterendorp, Klass
Verdugo, Camilo
Volberg, Charles Christian
Volberg, Frederick Ludwig
Vollmar, Frederick William
Wall, Carlton Hobbs
Wall, Richard Theopolie
Walton, Frank Newton
Walton, 'l'hompeon Gregg
Ward, George Harold
Ward, Henry
Warren, Fitz Henry

Weaver, William Henry
Weeks, George Franklin
Wenham, William
Wever, Charles Herbert, P. M.
Werner, Richard Luckow
Westerdahl, Chester Alvin
Wilhelm, John
Williams, Thomas Henry
Willie, Isadore
Wilson, Edward Rudolph
Wilson, Fred 'k Gilbert Jr.
Wilson, Joseph Milton
Wilson, Silvtster Frank
Winn, George Herbert
Wolfrom, George Edward
Wood, Wm. Christopher
Woodin, Clarence Freeman
Woodin, Eugene
Worden, William Henry
Wright, George Thomas
Wuerz, Carl Christian
Wulzen, Richard John
Yablonsky, Jonn, P. M.
Young, Charles Frederick
Young, Lars Gustaf
Youngberg, Frank Easterby
Youngberg, John E., P. M.
-440

WITHDRAWN:
Peek, Ferdinand John
MeCallum, George S. Killie

Copeland, Isaac
Davis, Percy
Hansen, Hans Peter
Harris, Edward Frisbie

333

DIED:
Knowland, Joseph
Leydecker, Theodore William
Messer, Joseph Oneeeme
Woodside, William John

ROSTER

ROSTER

334

DORIC LODGE, No. 216.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in ea~h month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICE:&S:
William Burton Cameron, Chaplait1,
Frederick William Stapff, Master,
Acton Haven, Senior Deacon,
817 Butler Bldg.
William Pari;ons Read, S. Warden, Leonard Thomas Peckman, J. Dea.,
Martin Leopold Haines, Marshal,
Manuel Lafee, Junior Warden,
Harry Abraham Miller, Steward,
Joseph Aaron Bush, Treasurer,
Julius Raphael Goldsmith, Secretary, William Caesar Blank, Steward,
Edward Wilson Currier, Tyler.
3547 Sacramento Street.

Abraham, Charles Jacob
Abraham, Samuel
Abrams, Abram Louis
Abrams, Nathan
Abrams, Sylvain Selic
Adler, John Schaam
Adler, Nathan Max
Aikens, Alexander
Alexander, Willia!J!
Allen, Charles
Allingham, William
.t\_ncker, Abraham
Andersen, Hjalmar
Anderson, Henry
Anderson, John Olof
Anderson, Peter Christian
Andrews, Abraham
Arendt, Alfred Lionel
Arnheim, Herman Samuel
Amheim, William Samuel
Asher, Hugo Kiewe
Aurich, Leon Stanley
Avan, John
Backstein, Ferclinancl
Bacon, Charles Augustus
Baclt, Alexander Leipschuetz
Baker, Frederick Thomas
Banks, William Oscar

MEMBERS:
Bareilles, John Parrott
Bartlett, Frank August
Bauer, Adolph Charles, P. M.
Beck, Charles Louis
Beermann, Adolf.
Beermann, William
Beger, August
Behm, Alfried Herman
Behrend, David
Belvel, George Elijah
Bennett, George Washington
Berwin, Charles
Bickley, John
Blank, Wm. Caesar
Blum, Isidor Leon
Blume, Daniel
Blumenthal, Bello Julius
Bock, Frank Joseph
Bohle, Albert Frederick
Bosch, Peter
Boskowitz, George Henry
Brandon, Julian Rodrigues
Breeding, William Henry
Breyer, Jerome McNeill
Brown, Herbert Morris
Brown, James Victor
Brown, Louis Calvin
Buckley, Edward Murray

Bullion, Alfred Hanna
Bunger, Fred 'k. Christian
Bush, Arthur Cleveland
Bush, Joseph Aaron
Button, Isaac Elbert V.
Cabaniss, George Henry
Caccia, Joseph
Cahen, David Solomon
Cameron, William Burton, P. M.
Carroll, Richard
Cerf, Alvin Edgar
Chaban, Joseph
Chapman, Fred Lawrence
Charmak, Edward
Chase, Fred Jay
Cherney, Irving Isidore
Chonette, Otto William, P. M.
Christ, Ferdinand Franz
Christensen, John
Church, Joseph· William
Clawson, Leonard Edwin
Coburn, Ira Winn
Cohen, Aerie Henry
Cohen, Charles Chester
Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Leon
Coblentz, Lambert
Collins, Samuel Henry
Conway, John Francis
Cook, Morton Leon
Cooper, Charles Gilbert
Cooper, Samuel Marum
Copeland, William Glenn, P. M.
Corvin, 'Harry
Crank, Paul
Creagh, John William
Crozier, Samuel
Cunningham, James
Curtlett1 William, P. M.
Currier, Eclward Wilson
Cushing, Allan Floyd
Cushing, George Washington
Danziger, Simon
Davis, David

Davis, Maurice William
Davis, Siegfried
Deal, William Griftith
Denker, Nicolas Carl
DeWitt, Frank Clinton
Donaldson, Allan Johnstone
Dorn, Gus Emil
Dunand, Louis Frank, P. M.
Dyer, George Henry
.i<;ber, Joseph
Eber, Karl
Edwards, Alfred Soule
Eichbaum, Chas. Williamson
Eickhoff, Henry
Eisenbach, Julius
Eshelman, .John Franklin
Euphrat, Martin
Faircloth, Frank Thomas, P. M.
Falk, Harry HenpY
Falk, Morris
Faller, Ike
Feige, Ralph Cerf
Ferris, Crawford
Fershtand, Theodore
Finkler, Henry Charles
Fishel, David
Fisher, Moses
Fitzgerald, Robert Harrison
Floud, ,John William Randall
Folsom, Eugene Hampton
:i;'n,,t.Ana, Frank Andl'PFox, Morris
Franklin, William
Fraser, John P., P. M.
Freudenthal, Felix
Friedlander, David
Frieclman, Abe
Friedman, Henry Albert
Friedman, Israel
Friedman, Samuel
Gabriel, Julins Lester
Gassner, Louis
Geddes, William
Gee, Charles Ezra
Gee, William Herbert

335

336

ROSTER

Hodes, Samuel
Geitner, Robert
Gelatte, Fred Gordon
Hoefler, Ludwig Mathias, P. M.
Hoffman, Charles S.
Geppert, Cletus Francis
Hollidge, Harry Hamlin
Getz, Moses Milton, P, M.
Holmes, Harold Charles
Gille, William Henry
Holmes, Henry Edmund
Gillespie, William John
Holzberg, David
Goetze, Edward Henry
Isaac, Adolph
Goicovich, George John
Isaacs, Louis Raymond
Goldberg, Garrett Milton
Iten, August
Goldberg, Max
Ivanovich, Martin
Goldsmith, Julius Raphael
Jacobs, Abraham
Goodday, Jacob Louis
J acobs, Alexander
Gorter, Herman Henry
Grant, Isaac
Jacobs, Harold Wihl
Jacobs, Henry Albert
Gray, Frank Sidney
Jacobs, Murry
Green, Isaac Michael
Groh, Anton Frederick
Jaco be, Myer
Gross, Louis
Jacobs, Sol
Janes, Graziano
Gutman, Alexander
Jewett, Albert Cavallo
Haines, Allie
Haines, Martin Leopo1d
Joel, Arthur
Hall, Frank Henry
Johnson, Frederick Joseph
Jones, Samuel
Hannah, Jesse Daniel, P. M.
Judell, Emil
Hannah, John Sidney
Hansen, August Wilhelm Hermann Judie, Alphonse
Kalmuk, Louis
Harris, Chester Sigmund
Katz, Charles
Hart, Richard
Kaufmann, Eduard
Hartje, John Herman Frederick
Kauffman, Leon
Hassell, William Prese<>•.o,
Keilus, Henry Mo•H!R
Haven, Acton
R"..llo1r. Al>~
Healing, George
Kellogg, Albert Crawford
Heiman, Abraham
Heineberg, Jacob A.
Kelly, William Wesley
Heineberg, Joseph
Kendall, Alfred Thomas
Kendall, Robert
Heinicke, William Frederick
Kerrigan, Frank Henry
Heller, Joseph
Henderson, Alexander
KoRhhlDd, Ailolf
Herzog, George Kramer
Lafee, Manuel
Herzog, Joseph
Lake, Lynwood Dustin
Herzog, Maximillian
Lande, Edward
Herzog, Sidney Garneld ·
Landgreen, William
Herzog, Sigfried Kramer
Larkin, Harry
Heskins, Herman
Larsen, Hans Henrik
Hicks, Herbert Reuben
Larsen, Niels
Hill, Thomas Locker, P. M .
Lazarns, Samuel L evin

ROSTER
. Lee, Lonnie Heyward
Leichter, Mark Melville
Leiser, Abra.nam Harrison
Lenoir, Gustave Abraham
Leon, Samuel Ralph
Lervik, Karl Avid Mattson
Lesser, Sol Leonard
Leszynsky, Isidor
Leudan, Joseph
Levenson, Samuel Millard
Levey, Benjamin Coleman
Levi, Ben, P. M.
Levi, Samuel
Levin, Aaron Simon
Levin, Abraham
Levingston, Harry
Levison, Alex.
Levit, Adolph Elkan
Levy, Adolf
Levy, Armand David
Levy, Elias
Levy, Emanuel Alex.
L evy, Eyrle Robert
Levy, George Adler
Levy, Harold Walter
Levy, Jacob
Levy, Leopold Harry
Levy, Mark Washington
Levy, Maurice
Levy, Morris Franlr
Levy, Reuben
Lewin, Helmut
Lewis, Jacob Emanuel
Liebman, Lloyd Har!'y
Lipman, Leopold
Lissner, Abraham Leslie
Loewinsky, Bruno Jacob
Lnstig, Daniel David
Lyons, Charles Gerald
Lyons, Edward, Jr.
Macdonald, Charles
Macvean, Duncan Malcolm
Magee, David Bartholomew
Mann, Leo
22

Manzer, Frank Eugene
Marchue, David Edward
Marks, Marcus
Markwitz, Louis
Martinoni, Emil
Matthiesen, John Andreas Phillip
McCroskey, Cyrus Burr, P. M.
McCullough, Thomas
McMurchy, William
Mendelsohn, Louis M.
Mendelson, Juiius
Meyer, Arthur
Meyer, Samuel
Meyers, John Jacob
Miguel, Paul Shirley
Mikkleson, Robert
Miller, Harry Abraham
Miller, James William
Miller, Louis Cecilius
Mish, Geralcl
Mohr, Harry Rudolph
Mohr, Selby
Monro, William James
Mooser, William
Morris, Henry
Morris, Saul Nathan
Morrisson, Albert Charles
Muller, William
Mulville, Daniel Frank
Munter, Bernard
Myers, Arthur Less
Myrson, Abraham Franklin
Myrson, Simon, P. M.
Nannestad, Henrik Elias
Nassau, Samuel Nathan
Nathan, Aaron Riggs
Neal, Robert Waterman
Nelson, Charles Fritbof
Nelson, William Arthur
Neuer, Carl
·
Nevegold, William Francis
.Nevin, Cecil Thomas
Norberg, John
Nye, Joseph Merrill, Jr.

337

338

O'Connor, Joseph
Oldie, Frank Evel?'n.
Olesen, Knud Christian
Olsen, Andrew
Olsen Peter Andrew
Oppe~heimer, Albert Henry
Ormsby, Edgar Lionel
Ottinger, Adolph
Packscher, Charles
Paton, George
Peiser, Solomon
.Peshon, Peter Alfred
Peterson, Charles Gue. Ferd.
Pettersan, Gottfried Teodor
Phillips Joseph Jamee
Pierotti'. Henry Collingwood C.
Plant, Sydney Lomax
Pockman, Leonard Thomas
Pobli Emil
Pohl:iann, Heinrich Adolf
Pollak, Arnold
Pollak, Rudolf Robert
Poppic, Arnold
Preddey George Henry
Prince, Albert David
Prince, David Solomon
Ragland, Rufus Ely .
Rainey, William Austin
Ramsay, William James
Read, William :arsons
Reid, Rafe Robinson
Reiner, Charles Edward
Reinhart, Manfred
Reinhart, Simon
Reinstein, Arthur Henry
Reissberg, Jacob
Reles, Peter
Richardson, Willard Ashton
Riley John Francis
Robe;tson, John Milne
Rosen, Carl Albin Amand1111
Rosenberg, Joseph
Rosencrantz, Samuel
Rosenheim, Samuel
Roseneh.rn e, Albert Adolph, P. M.

ROS·fER
Rosenthal, Isidore
Rothenbuseh, Carl Adolph
Rothschild, Abraham
Rothschild, Joseph
Rothschild, Lew
Rusconi, John Batista
SalomC\n, Leon Gilbert
Salsman, Isaac
Salz, Edward
Samuels, Albert Samuel
Sattler, Herman H.
Scharff Tsaac Clare
Scheppier, Louis William
Scheuch, Leopold
Schmalz, William
Schmidt, Carl H.
Sehraubstadter, Ernst
Schroder Edward Henry
Schroede~, Fridrick William
Schuh!, Leon
Sehwabaeher, Franklin
Schwartz, Aaron
Schwarz, Jacob
.
Schwartz, William Milton
Scott, Arthur George
Scott, William Lane, P. M,
Scoville, Calvin Ernest
Seeley, Joseph
Selig, Sylvan
Semmel, Eduard
bessler, Hugo Herman
Hhoor, Nathan
Short, John <.feorge
Short Joseph Edward
Silver,' Robert Napier
Silverstein, Bernard
Simon, Gerald Harrison
Simon, Irwin Blaine
Simon, Selmar
Sinclair, John Stewart
Skaller, George
Sollman, Nalentine
Sommerfield, Morris T.
Sperling, Frank
Spreen, Carl Fred August

.

ROSTER
Stapft', Frederick Wm.
Stangenberger, George Bernard
Steers, Frank Morgan
Steinbach, Henry
Steiner, Theodore
Steinmann, Cari Wilhelm Ferd.
Sternberg, Chas. Solomon
Stokes, Henry Arthur
Strom, Christian
Stroutre, Mark
Surges, John
Swanberg, Charles Olif
. Swanberg, Frederick Augustus
Taylor, William Henry
Terrill, William Albert
Thomas, David John
Tilton, James Alex.
Trebell, William, P • .M.
Triest, Joseph
Tryon, Ephraim Howard
V ereevieh, Adam La:i:ar
Walter, Nathan Leon
Warshauer, Harry
Warshauer, Jacob
Watkins, Henry Ward
Watson, Horace naniel

339

Weinshenk, Sydney
Weiss, Harry Meyers
Weiss, 'Milton
Westhofer, H"enry
Wheeler, Edward .Alvin
White, Thomas Benton, P . .M.
White, William Mercer
Wight, Frederick Lawrence, P . .M.
Williama, Alex. Francis
Williamson, James Richarrl
Wilson, Charles Edward
Wilson, Jamee
Wilson, James Efoazar, P . .M.
Wolbach, Karl
Wolf, Walter
Wolff, Simon
· Wolters, Theo. Ludwig
Wright, James William
Yarneberg, Charles
Young, Arthur Lawrie
Young, Ernest Brazington
Young, Hermann Hartmann
Young, Hermann Hartmann, Jr.
Young, John Stuart
Zimit, Harry Isidore
-465

WITHDRAWN:

Craig, Archibald Francis McDonald
Gray, Lee

Wobber, William Peter
SUSPENDED .FOR
Learner, Max
Long, Edward Melvin

Bressi, Enrico Guiseppe
Kahn, Lester
Ruggles, Alhert Burleigh

NON-PAYMENT

Gut, Karl
Riblet, Henry Nel~ou
O]•

DUES:

Lowe, Clarence Willie
Wood, John
DIED:

Schaertzer, Henry Conrad
Silverstein, Abraham
Wolf, Simon

340

ROSTER
ROSTER

MONTEREY LODGE, No.

217.

Monterey, Monterey County.
.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Henry Faringly, Master,
Tom Lee, Chaplain,
521 Pine St., Monterey, Cal.
Sidney Ruthven, Senior Deacon,
Robert James McCabe, S . Warden, Charles Woodhull Salterbach;J. D.,
Frank Oberlin Massie, J. Warden,
Leroy D. Lacey, Marshal,
Henry Alexander Olmsted, Treas., James Henry Di Paolo, Steward,
William Kay, Secretary,
George Commins, Steward,
Monterey, Cal.
Peter Sella, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anway, Clayton Loren
Hart Steven Charles
Aram, Henry Stephen
Hilb~, Francis Martin
Hille Martin Henry
B~gby, Jacob Warren
Barker, Eldridge Kendall
Him~elsbach, William
Hove, Charles Gerard Van
Bassett, Abner
Beardsley, James Harvey
Jacka, Will, P. M.
Berry, Frank Swan
Johnson, John Aleck
Bennett Charles Newton, P. M.
Kay, William, P. M.
Boyce, Arthur Elliott
Kench, William Russell
Kent, Henry Edmund
Bronson, Andrew
Brown, Thomas Watson
Kibbler William Thomas
Brown, Wallace Clarence
Kilpatrick, Harry Merritt
Charmak, Sol
Lacey, Leroy D., P. M.
Lee, Alfred William
Cook, Theo. W ebater .
Currier, William Parrish
Lee, Tom, P. M.
Di Paolo, James Henry
Leppert, Joseph
Edwards, William Sawyer
Liddle, Edwin Elliott
Elliott, Edwin Warren
Lillie, Wm. Adam
Emmons, Robert Forest
Little, David Spence
Faringhy, Williitm Henry
Longley, Adna Hecox
Flaws, James Robert
Lynch, James Andrew
Garrick, Adolph
Maddock, Robert Henry
Geisler, John George
Maple, Delmer
Martin, Carmel
Grimes, Edward
Goldstlne, Samuel
Mason Arthur James, P. M.
Gould, Fred Colwell
·
Massi:, Frank Oberlin
Gould, George Sylvanus, P. M.
McCabe, Robert James
Harmon, Sherlock
McKillop, David
Har~ington, John Joseph
McKim, Charles Millard

McMillen, Hiram
McMurphy, George Bailey
Messe, George William
Mitchell, Robert Grant
Moseley, Alex.
Oliver, Joseph Kurtz
Olmstead, Charles Shellman, P. M.
Olmsted, Henry Alex., P. M.
Olmsted, Henry Martin
Otis, Ney
Parker, Will Emory
Pierce, Frank
Pyburn, William Henry
Richesin, Jesse Oliver
Ridland, William
Riecks, Henry Alfred
Riley, James Alexander
Roberts, Edward
Bowe, Herbert
Ruthven, Sidney

Salterbach, Charles W.
Sandholt, William
Scholze, Ernest August, P. M.
Schwartzenbeck, Frank Xavier
Sala, Benjamin Vincent
Sella, Harry Peter
Sella, Peter
Senestrari, Jacob Theo.
Severance, Howard Daniel, P. M.
Sloane, Norman Hinsdale
Snaider, Josef
Stewart, John James
Stockdale, James Thomas
Swetnam, Isaac Newton
Tustin, Thomas Reeves
Vandewynckel, Aime
Warren, Henry Lyman
Webb, James Miles
Winston, Arthur Grosvenor
Wroble, John Goodell
-98

WITHDRAWN:
Bowler, William Emmons

341

· Davidson, James C.
Gibbs, Joseph

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gunzendorfer, Adolph
Kennedy, Leo Eugene
DIED:
Tiddball, Thomas Theodore

MOSAIC LODGE, No. 218.
Livermore, ,Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Alexander Therkof, Master,
William James Clifford, Chaplain,
Livermore, Cal.
Leslie
Earl Wright, Senior Deacon,
Henry Gordon McGill, S. Warden,
Harry Herbert Madison, J. Deacon,
John Hodson Wilson, J. Warden,
Charles Frederick Mess, Treasurer, Charles Addison McClain, Marshal,
Thomas Francis Brady, Secretary, Arthur Lindsay Henry, Steward,
Fred William Fretzel, Steward,
Livermore, Cal.
Julius Henry Johnson, Tyler.

ROSTER

ROSTER

342

343

MEMBE~:

Anderson, James
Anspacher, Simon
Archer, William
Bailey, Hiram
Baker, John Blair
Bardellini, Joseph
Barnes, George Robertson
Barzelotti, Louis Francis
Bayley, William Barrow
Bernal, Denis Filbert
Black, Frank Simpson
Brady, Thomas Francis
Brown, James Henry
Brumbough, James R.
Bruns, Geo. Andrew
Bruns, Herman Luther
Clarke, James William
Clifford, Wm. James
Decker, Henry Harrison
Demartini, Antonia
Dieckhoff, Diedrick
Fassett, Francis Ronello, P. M.
Fish, Albert Lester
Foster, Arthur Owen
Gerst, Edgar Anspacher
Granor, Adolph Thomas
Hagemann, August, P. M.
Hayes, John Cary, P . M.
Henry, Arthur Lindsay
Herbert, William
Hortenstine, John Baker
Hunter, John Ramsey
Hunter, Ruben
Hutchinson, James
Johnson, Julius Henry
Johnson, Lawrence Westerfield
Johnson, William Frederiek
Jones, Lewis Glynn
Kennedy, George Edwin, Jr.
Lefever, Charles Prine
Lefever, Robert Waite
Lucas, Charles Godfrey
Madison, Harry Herbert
McClain, Charles Addison
McDonald, David

McDonald, William
McGill, Henry Gordon
McKown, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
McVicar, Philip Hugh
Mess, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Miller, Edward Hershel
Munch, Charles Gottlieb
' Peterson; Charles Lorize
'.liasmusen, Thowald Emile
Reimers, John Claus
Rivers, Edwin Winford
Rowlands, Edmund
Savage,, Frank Lee, P. M.
Savage, Silas Lee
Schluter, William
Schrader, Frederick August
Schwennesen, Alvin Theo.
Scott, Thomas
Shidaker, Robert Frederick
Shierloh, Henry
Smith, Lewis Henry
Stanley, George Reed
Stanley, Leland Clarence
Taylor, Anderson Charles
Taylor, William Harvey
Taylor, William. Stewart
Therkof, George Alex.,. P. M.
Teeter, Daniel Marion
Teeter, Frank Ransome
Tretzel, Frederick William
Venn, Thomas
Victor, Charles Solomo~
Vietor, Morris
W11.goner, William John
Warner, James Kyle
Wente, Carl Heinreich
Wente, Carl Frederick
Wente, Ernest August
Wetmore, Clarence Jesse
Wilder, Charles C.
· Wilson, John Hodgson
Wood, Carl Frank
Wright, Jesse Royal
Wright, Leslie Earl

WITHDRAWN:
Connell, William John

..

Goodale, Robert H.
Lefever, Howard

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Duncan, Arthur C.
Norton, James T.
Pray, Clarence Syme
DIED:
Treadwell, Edward C.

SPERANZA ITALIANA LODGE, No. 219.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in eaetJ month.
Masonic Temple.

OFFICERS:
Clemente C. Peini, Master,
Giovanni Fiscalini, Senior Deacon;
23 Hill Street.
Benedetto F . Rossi, Junior Deacon,
Antonio Cogiandro, Senior W ardm Paul Capurro, Marshal
Sisto Rasori, Junior Wardm
' Henry Domenic Bruse~, Steward
Giuseppe Carlo Sala, Treasu~er,
Luigi Agostino Biagi, Steward '
Giovanni Scalmanini, Secretary,
Giacomo Lagomarsino, Tyler. '
327 Lick Bldg.

-89

Aragona, Tony
Bacigalupi, Davide Eugenio
Bacigalupi, Gaetano
Bacigalupi, Giovanni
Bacigalupi, Luigi Domenico
Bacigalupi, Paolo
Bacigalupi, Tadini Joseph
Balzarini, Carlo, P. M.
Bazzini, Giovanni
Becenti, Giuseppe, P. M.
Belli, Silvio
Berta, Pietro
Bertolucci, Pilade
Bianucci, Pietro
Bini, Giuseppe, P. M.
Blanco, Antonio Bua

MEMBERS:
Boccvar<!o, Giovanni Umberto
Bonfigli, Emilio
Bosia, Guglielmo
Bozzetti, Ippolito
Bozzo, Michele
Brusco, Henry Domenico
Bulotti, Giovanni
Caligara, Cesare
Calpestri, Italo
Canepa, Giuseppe
Canepa, Lorenzo
Capurro, Paolo
Carfagni, Pietro
Cariani, Luigi
Cassaretto, Giovanni
Cavagi:iaro, Carlo Mario

\

344

ROSTER

Cecchini, Sabatino
Cereghino, Luigi
Cevolani, Onesirno
Chiappari, Giovanni
Chicca, Luigi
Cogliandro, Antonio
Cominoli, Giuseppe
Compagno, .Joseph
Compagno, Matteo
Condari, Teodoro
Cordano, Giovanni Battista, P. M.
Corgiat, John
Costamagna, Pietro
Croce, Giuseppe
Cuneo, Giovanni
Cuneo, Giuseppe
Cuneo, Tomaso
D 'Acquisto, Angelo
Damonte, Antonio
Davini, Andrea, P. M.
DeBono, Giovanni
Dedomenico, Domenico
De Farrari, Fred
De Julio, Cristoforo
Del Carlo, Giuseppe
Dell 'Osso, Carlo
Delmonte, Angelo
Delosa, Francesco
Delsol, Giovanni Francesco
Delvecchio, Giov~nni Emilio
Del Pero, Joe
Demartini, Filippo, P. M.
Demartini, Luigi
. Demartini, Paolo
Dentici, Salvatore
Devoto, James Augnst, P. M.
Di Beo, Claudio
Digrazia, Lorenzo, P. M.
Domenici, Basilio
Dondero, Aurelio George, P. M.
Fabbri, Silvio
Fiacca<1.ori, Ettore
Filippini, Felice
Fiorio, Silvio
Fiscalini, Giovanni

Fodera, Antonio
Fontana, Giusto
Fontana, Marco G.
Gaibado, Giacomo
Galeoto, Severino
Garibaldi, Giacomo
Garibaldi, Giovanni
Uiancoli, Pietro
Giovanetti, Pietro
Gotelli, Lorenzo
Greco, Francesco
Griffo, Joseph
Grondona, Carlo Francesco
Guanziroli, Luigi
Iaccheri, Garibaldo
Iaccheri, Leonida
Icardo, Giovanni, P. M.
Isola, John
Kristinich, Jacob
Lagomarsino, Giacomo
Lepori, Giovanni, P. M.
Levaggi, Giovanni Battisti&
Lonigo, Victor Emilio, P. M.
Maggio Fortunato
Maino, Tomaso
Mancini, Au,ll1lsto
Maranetto, Giovanni
Marcacci, Antonio
Marchi, Giovanni
Mariani, Walter Antone
Marini, Luigi
Marioni, Ginotto, P. M.
Marioni, Luigi
Marm, Frederick
Marsili, Giuseppe
Martina, Pietro
Masoero, Cesare
Massoni, Paolo
Mender, Giuseppe
Messina, Luigi Candido
Micheletti, Alfredo Angelo
Micheletti, Italo
Milisich, Christoforo
Minghetti, Demetrio
Minelli, Zanabi

ROSTER

..

Mino, Augusto
Mino, Giovanni
Monotti, Alfredo
Nave, Cesare .
Nave, Pietro Nave
Negro, Giuseppe
Nicholas, Nahum
Onesti, Giuseppe, p, M.
Paganucci, Adolfo
Paladini, Achille
Passalacqua, Benedetto
Peini, Clemente
Perata, Pietro
Perazzo, Joseph
Perrone, Dario
Pesenti, Carlo
Petri, Angelo
Podesta, Luciano Roberto
Poli, Ciro
Puccinelli, Archimede
Puccinelli, Giulio
Puccinelli, Vincenzo
Quadrelli, Frank
Rasori, Sisto
Righetti, Perseo, P. M.
Rittori, Edoardo
RoBBi, Anselmo
RoBBi, Benedetto F.
RoBBi, Giovanni Frank
Rovere, Vittorio
Rusconi, Gottardo
Russi, Bartolo Pietro
RuBBi, Frank Bertolli

345

Russi, Frederick Bertolli
Bala, Giuseppe Carlo, P. M.
Sanguinetti, Giuseppe
Banguinetti, Luigi
Sbarboro, Andrea
Bcalmanini, Antonio Beniamino,
P. M.
Bcalmanini, Carlo, P. M.
Bcalmanini, Giovanni, P. M.
Simoni, Pio
Blavich, George
Stafford, Giovanni
Btuparich, Nicola
Btuparich, Stefano
Tassi, Antonio
Tomasini, Filiberto
Tonini, Michele Gaudenzio
Torello, Emilio
Torre, Giovanni
'rorre, Luigi
Torre, Ottavio
'i'osy, Antonio
Toso, Marcellino
Trapani, Antonio
Valsangiacomo, Luigi, P. M.
Valsangiacomo, William
Valvo, Giuseppe
Varacchi, Davide
Verga, Giuseppe
Vitaloni, Alfredo
Vranjos, Frank
Zanolini, Italo
Zunini, Domenico
-187
WITHDRAWN:
Guglielmoni, Cyril Alexander
Tomasini, Guiseppe Rolindo

Bianchi, Carlo
Eluro, Antonio
Forni, Carlo

DIED:
Gadina, Pietro
Lagomarsino, Carlo
Zabald:ino, Alessandro

346

ROSTER

ROSTER

DOWNEY LODGE, No. 220.
Downey, Los Angeles Co'DD.ty.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS.
Adams, John James
Ardis, John Dawson, P. M.
Ardis, Julius Harris, P. M.
Arrowsmith, Charles Curtis
Balzer, Charles Henry
Bartlett, John
Baruch, Berthold
Bruster, Charles Thurman
Churtih, Raymond Frank
Cohen, Joseph Ward
Condit, William Robert
Crooker, Henry Appleton
Crooker, Leon James
D~rby, Arthur Llewellyn
Davenport, Elmer J.
Dorman, Dudley M.
Dunagan, Oliver R.
Dutton, Arthur Jay
East, George Earl
Elliott, George Richard
Fanning, Burton Everett
Garrison, James Addison
Gibson, Toy Berry, P. M.
Grant, Aaron George
Gray, Algernon Sidney
Groot, Cornelius I.
Hall, Alonzo
Harper, Robert Bills
Harris, Ranae Bird, P. M.
Haygood, Atticus Greene, P. M.
Haygood, Paul
Hooper, James Lafayette, p, M.

Houghton, Lake William
Hull, Denton Elias
,Joplin, William Patton
Kock, Julius
Kuehny, Menno Simon
Lally, James Mathias
Loew, Jacob
Main, Walter Johnston
Manning, Chas. Caplain
Mayes, Robert Berry
McDonald, Albert Fulton
McKellar, James Wallace, P. M.
Millen, John McKaskell
Mitton, Henry Robt. H.
Moberly, Walter Ray
Monahan, Patrick
Nagle, Clyde Albert
Nagle, Voyle Jacob
Nance, William Henderson,
Orr, Wil~iam W.
Parks, Leantier Norwood
Parsons, Alfred Edward
Paxton, Leonard Rupert
Pearce, Leigh Baldwin
Pendleton, Matthew Rainey, P. M.
Pentz, Ernest Burrel
Perkins, John Franklin
Reeves, John Morton
Renfro, Thomas Faulkner, P. M.
Rickman, Thomas Merritt
Roberts, Benjamin Lee
Rudd, John Wesley, P. M.

..

Ryan, Andrew William
Bcott, Robert Lee
Sbae1f, Norman Butler
Shank, Clyde Earl
Shanker, Barney William
Skidmore, Edward Upshaw
l:lkidmore, Stephen Schuyler
Skidmore, Grey Maxwell
Spaulding, James Sanford
Spencer, Walter Derwin
Standlee, Claude Edward
Standlee, Elmer Fair
Steinart, Jacob
Stevens, Joseph Thomas
Stewart, Albert Julius

34i

Stewart, Alex.
Stokesberry, Wm. Wesley
'l'aylor, Ethelbert David
Taylor, George Washington
Towne, O. P.
Truitt, Francis Earl
'! 'weedy, James Knox
'fweedy, Maurice E.
Wade, Andrew Fuller
Wagner, Andrew Fremont
Wathen, John Bush
Whalc!y, Charles Mallory
Wilson, George Thomas
Woodward, Thoe. Earl

WITHDRAWN:
Dwire, Dumont
Henry, Albert Perry

Manning, Le Roy
Young, George Arthur

DIED:
Brunson, Edward Atherton
Nagle, Jacob J.
Venable, Joseph William

INYO LODGE, No.

22r.

Independence, Inyo County,
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Cecil I. MacFarlane, Master,
Julian E. Eibeshutz, Chaplain,
Independence, Cal.
George D. Calver.t, Marshal
William A. Calvert, Sc11. Warden
Jame~ W. Wheeler, Sen. D~acon,
William L. Hunter, Jun. Warden '
Jame:. E . Jones, Junior Deacon
Walter A. Lamar, Treasurer, . ' George S. Wood, Steward
'
William D. Dehy, Secretary,
John C. Morris, Steward '
Independence, Cal.
John C. Baxter, Tyler. '
MEMBERS:
Anton, John Charles
Balzar, Bert RuBBell
Balzar, l!'red Bennett
Baxter, John Clifford
Bell, Andrew Neel

Brown, Warren E.
Burke, John
Butler, William V.
Calvert, George Dallas, P . M.
Calvert, William A.Irick

-92

ROST EH

348
Dehy, William Daniel, P. M.
Doan, Benjamin Ray
Eibeshutz, Aaron Washington
Eibeshutz, Julian E., P. M.
Forbes, Peter Wallace, P. M.
Fowle, James Elcho Zare
Gorman, John Sarsfield, P. M.
Gorman, Valentine Francis
Harvey, Frederick Guy
Hession, Jesse W.
Hunter, William Lyle
Jones, James Everett
Lamar, Walter Anderson
Lewis, George Hubert
Libbey, Jason Mariner
MacFarlane, Cecil I.
Mairs, Norman J.
Martin, Guy
Maciver, John Tyle
McLean, Neal
Meroney, William Oscar

Miller, William Sherman
Merkle, George Frederick
Morris, John Cecil
·Rhine, Bertrand
Richards, William McE!lisk
Shepherd, James Edward, P. M.
Shepherd, John Arthur
Skinner, Joseph Villey
Skinner, Lloyd de V.
Slcinner, Max McCune, P. M.
Skinner, William Lyle, P. M.
Spear, Frederick R.
Thurston, Samul D.
Towler, Charles Benj.
Walker, August
Walker, Webster Hilton
Wheeler, James Wright
Williamson, Mark Angle
Wood, George Sultan
Wright, James William
Zaun, Sebastian
-52

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Meroney, John Edgar
Brady, James
Conklin, Norman E.
Pidge, William Clark
Mairs, William Paul
Short, Daniel W .
Steel, Charles Henry
McLean, John <hegor
DIED:
Yandell, Benjamin Hart

ROSTER

..

MEMBERS:
Astill, James
Levison, Isidor
Ayer, Leland Stanford
Maker, Rufus
Barber, Lyman Hempsted, P. M.
McKellips, Daniel Ozman
Boston, Harry .l!Jlswortll
Mears, Edward Thomas
Bowersox, Charles Allen
Mullinix, Henry David
Brown, Joshua Benj.
Newton, Thomas
Burchard, George Henry
Nicol, William, P. M.
Butler, Frank Albert
Odom, Samuel Oscar
Christian, David Orr
Pannabaker, Edward Elsworth
Connor, John Michael
.Peart, Homer Leslie
Crafts, Forrest Bowers
· P}\ilippi, Carl John, P. M.
Craig, Roy Hugh
Pierce, Leroy Burt
Delano, Ira Lemuel, P. M.
Pritchard, John
Delano, Luis Everett
Ricksecker, Ovid Hall, P. M.
Duncan, Charles Douglass
Roberts, William John
Dwelly, Nelson Shields
Schwab, Henry Samuel
Dyer, Jay Ralston
Schone, August Luther
Dyer, John Ralston
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Egger, John Samuel
Sprague, Zina
Ellis, Joseph Parr
Stalford, Ralph Lewis, P. M.
Ford, James Cooper
Sterling, Edward Eugene
Filson, Lee
Thyle, Alvin Clarence
Gillilan, Delbert Irwin
Trippett, Homer Charles
Graves, Edgar
Vivaldo, Paul
Grindell, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Walther, Paul
Hanisch, Alvin August
Wanek, Christy James
Harris, Charles Samuel
Whallon, Samuel Norton
1:f islop, Colin
Wheeler, Ralph Stephens
Hulf, William
. Wood, Samuel Heber, Jr.
Layton, Edward Leonard

GRANITE LODGE, No. 222.
B.ockliD, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICEBS:

Ovid Hall Ricksecker; Master,
Ralph Stevens Wheeler, Chaplain,
Rocklin, Cal.
Albert Ripley Delano, Senior Deac.,
Ira Lemuel Delano, Senior Warden, Charles Alfred Dyer, Junior Deacon,
Homer Leslie Peart, Junior Ward.,Joshua Benjamin Brown, Marshal,
Colin Bruce Hislop, Treasurer,
Paul Walther, Steward,
Albert Maurice Grindell, Secretary, Henry David Mullnix, Steward,
Rocklin, Cal.
David Orr Christian, Tyler.

DIED:
Biscoe, Walter Fred

349

-59

850

ROSTER

ROSTER

BAKERSFIELD LODGE, No. 224.
Bakersfield, Kern County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jabez Right Gist, Chaplain,
Henry Eissler, Senior Deacon,
Henry W . B. Rintoul, Jutt. Deacott,
Arthur Saxe Crites, Marshal,
Edgar Lee Burton, Steward,
Robert Pranty Redman, Ste~vard,
Abel Henry Grenell, Tyler.

Judson Evert Dyer, Muster,
1620 Nineteenth Street.
Earl Black Gilbert, Sen. Warden,
Charles Richard Dennen, J.' W~rd.,
Alonzo Deeble Whittemore, Treas.,
Clement D. Oldershaw, Secretary,.
2W7 Chester Lane.

MEMBERS:
Boggs, William Spencer
Alexander, Charles Lee
Borton,
Fred Ellsworth
Alexander, Isaac Washington
Bovie, Randall Ray
Alexander, William' Henry
Bowman, Charles
Allewen, Newton John
Bradford, Charles Edwin
Anderson, Calvin Vanee
Bradley, Chas. Wilder
Anderson, R9bert :Merrywether
Brame, Milburne M.
Applegarth, Clark Norman
Brandt, Henry Jensen
Apsley, Richard
Breuch, William
Arnold, Clarence Edmond
Brett, James Joseph
Arp, James Harris
Briggs, Joseph William
Baer, Charles Eugene
Brockman, John W.
Baer, Edward Arthur
Brower,
Celsus
Ball, Herbert George
Brown, Carl Hoyt
Baker, James Edwin
Brown, Chas. DeForest
Bare, Reuben Henry
Brown, Eugene McCabe
Beal, Eldon Marius
Brown, Frank,L_ee
Beamer, Samuel James
.Hrown, Newbern NMkolls
Beaizley, William Beard
Bryant, Oscar Marion
Beckett, Ralph Ellsworth
Buck, Howard Burdett
Beer, Lucian
Buhn, George Lewis
Bell, James W.
Burke, Thomas Francis
Bickerdike, Charles
Bu:rton, Edgar Lee
Bickerdike, Charles Edgar 0.
Bush, Jonathan Mercer
Black, Harry L.
Caldwell, Alonzo
Blake, Arthur
Camp, Frank Bartlett
Blake, Freeman Stuart
Carlisle, Robert John
Blodget, Claude Raymond
Carpenter, Archibald George
Blodget, Hugh Allen, P. M.
Carr, John Henry
Blodget, Percy Langdon

Clark, James Allen
Clark, Levi Clement
Clarke, Orville Lee
Clay, William Oliver
Clickard, John
Cohn, Arthur
Cohn, !wing
Colm, William Wallace
Comer, Edward ·H.
Condict, Henry Ford
Congdon, Charles Henry
Cooley, William Hal
Correa, George Augustus
Coulter, Howard Alonzo ·
Crease, Fred John
Crites, Angus Jewett
Crites, Arthur Saxe, P. M.
Crites, George Solomon
Cruthers, Frank Dravo
Darms, Harry
Davis, Robt. Meneesh
Dennen, Chas. Richard
Dickinson, .Tames Edward
Dift'crding, Charles
Dobbs, Frank Nelson
Duncan, Eugene Bennett
Duncan, Millard Augustus
Dyer, Judson Everet, P. M.
Edgar, Walter Pinkney
Eissler, Henry
Fain, Charles
Farbstein, Jacob
Ferguson, Granville Lewis
Fisher, Harold Stuart
Fitzpatrick, M.
Fox, Charles Douglass
Fox, Jesse Price
Freeman, Albert Willinm
Gaddy, William Enoch
Gardner, John Edgar
Garfield, Clyde Sherman
German, Otis Henry
Gibbons, Walter Walden
Gibson, William Clarence
Gilbert, Earl Black

Gillespie, Robert Martin
Gist, Jabez Hight, P. M.
Glenn, Ira Huston, P. M.
Glover, Thomas William
Gore, Arthur Henry Baldwin
Grant, Robert Elmore
Hageman, Bev.jamin Stryker
Hall, Fred Henry
Hamlin, Francis Allen
Handy, Thomas Benjamin
Hanna, Thomas
Hardman, Edmond John
Hauis, Wm. McMahon
Harvey, John H.
Hawk, Walter Lee
Hayden, Edward Blaine, P. M.
Heard, John Wilkerson
Henshaw, Holmes
Hiemforth, Peter
Hill, William Harlow
Hively, Charles Asbury
Holfman, Arcblti
HoUzer, Marc
Hope, Thomas
Hull, William Allen
Hunt, James Benjamin, P. M.
Huney, Ralph Harman
Hutchings, George Grant, P. M.
Jackaon, James Reynolds
James, Walter
Jamison, John Mack
Jastro, Henry Alex., P. M.
.Tenkins, Joseph Ed.
Jerrue, Daniel Bernard
Johnson, DeWitt Wallace
Joh~ston, Augustue M.
Johnston, Charles Newton
Jones, Frederick Truman
Kaye, William Wallace, P. M.
K eith, Ed Allen
Keller, Charles
Keller, Frank, Jr.
Kimball, Will S.
King, Layton Judd
Leech, William Hiland

351

352

ROSTER

Lightner. D•vld James
Long, Calvin Samuel
Longacre, John Jackson
Lufkin, Harry Roscoe
Lupton, George William
Mack, Julius Jacob
Mahon, Jackson W.
Maio, Charles Francis
Mallett, Holland Kenneth
Malott, Howard Oliver
Marsh, Neil Haynes
Mason, Harvey
Masteller, Kenneth Clyde
McCully, James D.
McGowan, Daniel
McKee, George Sidney
McKelvey, Lewis
McQuire, Robert Rolland
Meek, Davis Buchanan
Medina, John Blancarte
Metcalf, Charles Thomas
Michael, Rex Z.
Miller, Harry Vincent
Miller, Isaac Leffier
Miller, Jesse Andrew
Millington, Georire Warren
Moody, Dwight L.
Moran, Joseph James
Morley, Joseph "\'ivian
Morris, Charles Alfred
Morrison, Charles Vana
Morrow, Robert Ewing
Morton, Albert Sumner
Mullins, Stephen D.
Munsey, Elbert Porter, P. M.
Munzer, Francis George
Murphy, Caissus Leon
Murray, Peter Allen
Naylor, Chas. Brown
Neill, John
Neill, Robert
Newberry, Charles Francis Moore
Noble, Eugene Baker
Oldershaw, Clement Daubeney
Osborn, Jonathan Walter

Payne, James Campbell
Peacock, Harrison Ross
Pope, William Washington
Rawlings, Walter Franklin
Rea, Calvin Clifford
Redman, Robert Pantry
Reed, Frank Deward
Reynolds, George Augustine
Richardson, George Erastus
Rintoul, DeWitt Talmage
Roberts, John Ellsworth
Robertson, Emply Arthur
Robertson, Virgil Young
Robinson, Frank Wilkins, P. M.
Rogers, Guy
Rogers, Herbert Thomas
Rogers, Homer
Rogers, James Vaughn
Rogers, Lewis Styles, P. M.
Ross, Lyman Casky
Rowell, Walter Charles
Rowland, Mark Acton
Rowland, Wm. Blackburn
Sallee, George Hunter
Sawyer, Frank Newcomb
Schamblin, Gustav
Schwain, Chas. Henry
Segur, Clyde Harry
Shackelford, Grover Murry
Shields, Charles Henry
Sloan, Geo. Charles
Smith, Jesse Murray
Smith, Byron Ellis
Smith, Samuel Franklin
Snell, Frank Sebastian
Snudden, Benjamin Dudley
Snyder, Frederick William
Sorenson, Chris
Stern, Marcell
Stewart, Johnson
Stinchfield, Herbert Colfax
Stockmar, Edwin Linwood
Stockton, Dennis G.
Stockton, Christopher Columbus
Stoll, Charles Michael, P .. M.

ROSTER
Stone, James Edgar
Stroble, Godfrey F.
Stroud, Benj. Kendrfok
Stuart, Harry Grant
Swain, Arthur Hussey, P. M.
Taylor, Arthur Washington
Taylor, Floy Joshua
Thomas, Benjamin Brugler, P. M.
Thompson, John Walter
Thompson, Louis Thomas
Thornber, James Henry
Tibbetts, Willie Edmond
Tilton, George Albert
Tomlinson, Richard Hiram
Topham, William Robert
Tupman, Homer Irving, P. M.
Tyler, William
Underwood, Wm. Edwin
Wagy, Earl W.
Walters, Raymond Isaac
Ward, Archil! Levi
Wayne, Ormar Franklin
Webber, William John

Weir, Dillard Spencer
Weller, Amos
Weill, Alphonse, P. M.
Westfall, Marshall Elmer
Whitaker, Edward Howard
Whitaker, beorge Allen
Whitaker, Perry
Whittemore, Alonzo Deeble
Whittekin, Homer T.
Whittikin, Ralph Oscar
Whorft', Franklin Teed
Wiard, George Edward
Wible, Samuel Peter
Wilbur, Parker Swift
Wilkes, Carl Perry
Williams, Hibbard Smith
Williams, Percy Alton
Williamson, Albert St. John
Woocls, Dnniel Rosson
Woodson, Daniel Blake
Zinnamon, David
iuner, Roy Roscoe

WITHDRAWN:
Ballagh, Herbert Allen
Beatty, Charles Wesley
Caldwell, Donald
Coons, William Henry
Hughes, Scott
Johnston, Wjllian:

June, Newell Austin
Jones, John Dunlap
Mills, Frank D.
McLane, Robert Bruce
*Seals, ,John Leroy
*Taylor, Harry Neafie

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brundage, Benjamin Leonard
MacKnight, Smith P.
Davis, Frank
MacMurdo, Wirt Robinson
Jones, Augustus Guy
Shanks, James Watt
Low, John Alexander
Snook, John
Milne, James
Stroud, James A;
McRae, Alexander William
Van Vlack, John Dorsey
Walker, Charles Thomas
DIED:

Frieselle, Ralph

Rousseau, Elijah
•Degrees conferred during the year.
23

363

-283

354

ROSTER

ROSTER

BROOKLYN LODGE, No.

225.

Oakland, Alameda. County.
Corner 8th Ave. and Ea.st 14th St.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Henry' Davies, Chaplain,
Charles Edward Stowe, Master,
Louis Sutter, Senior Deacon,
1342 East 27th St., Oakland.
Allan Martin Wickland, J. Deacon,
Edwin J. Wold, Se11ior Warden,
Calvin Milton Covell, Marshal,
Chester V. Newell, Junior Warden, William Hugh McCutcheon, Steward,
George Henry True, Treasurer,
Fred Haigh Sargent, Steward,
John · Charles Foster, Secretary,
Alexander Copeland, Tyler.
1228 Magnolia Street, Oakland.
MEMBERS:
Brown, Henry Aug\J.stus
Adamson, Daniel Patterson
Brown, Richard Alexander
Agnew, Albert Conant
J:Srown, Thorvald
Allen, Harrison Anderville
Browne, Harry Rosekrans
Anderson, Alex. Watson
Buswell, Gilbert Sission
Anderson, Andrew Sovereign
Buswell, John Gill
Anderson, Archibald Borland
Campbell, John Alex., P. M
Anderson, Franklin Pierce
Campbell, Robert Vernon
Anderson, Herbert Julius
Capell, Howell Pratt, P. M.
Anderson, Thomas, Jr.
Carlson, Joseph Adrian
Armer, Vietor Ellis
Castellanos, Salvador
Avan, George Wash.
Chapman, Arthur Bertram
Ayer, Richard Bartlett
Chase, George Moses
Back, Martin Andersen
Chase, Raymond Sumner
Baker, John William
Christiansen, Nis
Bangle, Edward
Clarke, Thomas Brownell
Barnhise.I, Charles Franklin
Coates, Samuel John Marsh
Bartels, Albert Leslie
Cobbledick, Levans New3om
Bassett, Virgil Everett
Cohick, Walter Hildebrand, l'. llr!.
Berg, Aaron
Cohen, Isadore
Berg, William Meyer
Cohn, Abraham S.
Bergson, Robert Oscar
Coney, Milton Alexander
Black, Samuel Thorburn
Cook, Frank Bigelow
Blunck, John Fredrick
Copeland, Alex.
Bond, William Thomas
Corbett, Joseph Bailey
Bray, Anthony
Couper, Thomas
Briggs, Cyrus Franklin
Covell, Calvin Milton
Briggs, Herbert Pasha, P. M.
Cowell, Richard
Brooks, James Hiram

Crandell, Harry Arnold
Crandell, Thomas B. Ripley, P. M.
C,rosby, Magnus Charles
Cross, Charles Warren
Cumming, George Gordon
Cummings, Morton Augustus
Curran, Robert Alford
Davies, Charles Henry P. M.
Davies, John Albert '
Davis, Reeves
DeMooy, Harry Bernard
Dennis, George A.
Dickinson, William Edwin
Dodds, Thomas
Dodge, Edward Carlos
Dow, William Alonzo
Downey, John Charles, P. M.
Dowse, Arthur Tennyson
Drew, James Timothy
Duby, Alfred Lionel
Dufton, John Storey
Dunn, Bruce T.
Dunn, Daniel C.
Dunn, William Hiram
Eckert, Edwin Travis Mitchell
Edwards, David Nathaniel
Edwards, John
Edwards, Walter Ferguson
Efkamp, Henry William
Eliassen, Edward Russell
English, Norris
Evans, John Harry
Evans, John Walter, p, M.
Evans, William Robert, p .......
..,
E verett, Frank Inches
Ewan, Israel Chew
Fake, Albert Edward
Farris, William Charles
Faulkner, Joseph
Faunt, William John
F~lley, Philomen Henry
Fish, Lauriston Chester
Flil)ler, Henry Richard
Foster, John Charles, P. Jll.
Fraser, Havelock Newton

365

Frazer, Hugh Lord
Frederickson, v emor
Frye, Albert Kennedy
Fuller, Amos Leighton
Furgason, Charles Horace
Gardiner, Thomas Moir
Garrett, Benj. Franklin Wilson
G~rrett, Joseph Atkinson
Gibson, Charles Moran
Giesen, Henry George
Gillam, J elferson
Golf, Henry Franklin p U
Goldberg, Leon Barn;tt . . •
Goody, John Enoch
Goold, James Hamilton
Graham, Frank Elmer
Graham, William Herbert
Grandjean, Eugene Henry
Hall, William Haynes
Ham~leton, Charles George
Hamilton, Milton Scott
Hansen, Theodor Stone
Harb.inson, George Washington
Harnngton, John Alex.
Hartman, George Bressler
Harvey, Lewis Perry, Sr.
Hassard, Henry Houston Jr
Hatch, John Davis
'
·
Hatch, Theo. Henry p M
Hawkins, John Tim~th; .
Hayden, Kenneth McKenzie
Hayden, Kenneth McKenzie 11
Hazen, Edson
' • •
Heath, George Brown
Hemphill, Charles Lorin
Henderson, Herbert Beal
Henderson, John Ezra
Henry, Matthew
H~nshaw, William Griffith
Hiles, Elton Wm
Hiles, Gail Allis~n
Hiles, Park Beekman
Hill, Frederick
Hill, Robert
Hill, Robert Benjamin

356
Hodge, Charles
Holmberg, Ernst
Holmes, Gustaf Ivar Robert
Hosking, Martin Luther
Howes, George Thompson
Hunter, John
Jackson, Arthur Leslie
Jackson, Douglas Milton
Jackson, Edwin Rushmore
Jacob, Elmer
James, Arthur Jesse
Jensen, Jens Peter
Jensen, . Thomas Kristian
Johnson, Emil Edward
Jones, James Philip
Jorgensen, Christian
Keay, William
Keller, David Conrad
Kelley, John Joseph
Kelly, Frank Lewis
Kelly, George Earle, P. M.
Kempkey, Augustus, Jr.
Kempkey, Edwin Karl
Kennedy, Frank Trivilla
King, William
Kirkhotl', Clay
Koppikus, Dudley William
Kramm, Frederick William
Lamb, Willis
Leach, Edward Everate
Leach, Harvey William
Lewis, Irving Cowham
Logan, William Gould'
Loken, Gilbert
Lorenzen, Niels Christian
Lowe, William Earl
Ma ddern, Marmaduke Henry
Madsen, Martin
Magill, Arthur Edward, Jr.
Magnes, Irving
M arks, Martin Elkan
Mason, George Henry
Mathieu, Harry James
Mazor, Milton
Mazor, Morris

ROSTER
McCracken.• William James
McCutcheon, William Hugh
1'1cDowell, James Elbert
McEwing, John
McGill, Andrew
McLaughlin, David Henry
McLean, James
Mead, Lewis Risdon, P. M.
Melvin, Henry Alex.
Merrill, William Frank
Michener, David Biddison
Mille!', Charles
Miller, Chester Herbert
Miller, Edwn.r<l Arthur
Miller, Frank William
Miller, Grant David
Miller, James
Miller, John William
Miles, Harold Manley
Mitchell, Allister Stewart
Mitchell, Melville Charles
Money, William Thomas Caleb
Monnet, Frederick Louis
Moseley, John Edward, Jr.
Muir, Andrew Robertson
Myers, Peter Johnathan
My hre,. Hilmar Martin
Neils, Frank
Nelson, Gustave Edward
Newell, Chester V.
Norris, Thomas Wayne
Olsen, Thomas Anton
Orra, Cam.i lle Frank
Pearce, Joseph Deeble
Pedersen, Bernhard Stork
Perkins, Fred Wilbur
P erkins, Herbert Beas
P etersen, Cedric Walter
Petersen, Jens Kjar
Petersen, IDric Kutsulls
Petersen, Walter Joseph, P. M.
Petty, John
Petty, John Arthur, P. M.
Petty, Joseph
Petty, Rowland

ROSTER
Phelps, John Glover
Phillips, John Waterman, ;I'. M.
Pierce, Howard Haynes
Plunkett, James Arthur
Pond, James Haven
Rafter, Charles Christopher
Randle, Franklin Gilder
Rankin, Simon George
Read, Alfred Christopher P.
Reece, Angelo
Reece, Oliver
Rees, Howard Horace
Rennie, Francis John, P. M.
Richards, Ulysses Grant
Rinehart, Wm. Barbour
Roberts, George Robert Wesley
Rogers, Henry Joseph
Rµppert, Charles Henry
Rutledge, William
Sabin, John Murray, Jr.
Samuels, George
Samuels, Marcus Lorne
Samuels, Samuel
Sargent, Edwin Lyman, Jr.
Schmidt, Theo. August
Schoener, Albert Cristian
Schoener, Louis Otto
Schroder, Peter Frederick F.
Schroeder, Herbert Edwin
Schulze, Henry Atherton
Scott, .John Walter
Scott, Joseph Alexander
Seal, Alfred Blake
Seither, Frank William
Shapter, William
Simmen, Samuel
Simpson, John Shepherd
Smith, Charles Horn, P. M.
Smith, Clayton Kerper
Smith, Frank Milton
Smith, Guy Window
Snook, George William James
Spanggord, Severin Ben. Larsen
Spradlin, Charle11 Blanchard

357

Starkey, Robert Pierpont
Steei, Wm. Shurvell
Stewart, Frank Holman
Stewart, Maurice Solomon
Stewart, Michael Young
Stirling, Charles
St. Johnson, William Howard Russell
Stockholm, Charles
Stockslager, Henry George
Stowe, Charles Edward
Stuart, Harry Clay
Sutter,. Louis
Swalley, Harry Martell
Swift, Charles Ingham
Symons, Matthew
'1\1.te, George
T)\iele, Edmund Henery
Thomae, Henry Sherman
Thomas, John Hiram
Todd, William Platt
Tomlinson, George
Tonks, Wm. Henry
True, George Henry
Tunley, Adam Tinley
Under;wood, George Godfry
Vandereock, Edward Pickett
Vane, Walter Feary, P. M.
Varey, Gilbert Clarence
Vestal, Jaye De Jarnette
Vockel, Herman Theo.
Waddell, George Brewer
W ady, Godfrey Edward
Warren, Granville Dexter, P. M.
Webster, James Alvan, P. M.
Welch, Bert Henry
West, Ross Raymond
W ethem, George Hiram
Whitmore, Willis Whitney
Wickland, Allan Martin
Wilcox, Wilbnr Jairus
Williams, Carl Franklin
Williams, Eugene Francia
Williams, George Roscoe
Williams, Justin Leroy

ROSTER

ROSTER

368

Woodworth, Leslie Emerson
Woodworth, James Lemuel

Williamson, Edgar Stanley
Woli!, Edwin J.
Woods, William Fowler

Andrews, Samuel Rufus

-329

WITHDRAWN:
Jackson, Clyde
Lincoln, Charles

DIED:
Hermansen, Herman Christian
Campbell, Murdock
Kelly, Lyman Ernest
Donaldson, William Augustus
Lindsley, Albert ·wheeler
Eeks, William Henry
Webster, Jonathan Vinson

SAN MATEO LODGE, No.

226.

San Mateo, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, 11.rst Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Howard Mathew Tayler, Master,
Elm Street, San Mateo.
Frederick Ernest Beer, S. Warden,
Francis Joseph Cochran, J . Ward.,
Fernand Levy, Treasurer,
Edward C. Aldwell, Secretary,
250 Elm Street, San Mateo.

Aldwell, Edward C.
Allen, Fred Walter
Alton, Thomas William
Baker, Wood C.
Barron, Andrew Scully
Bean, John Allen
Beer, Frederick Ernest
Benoit, Arthur Ernest
Blackburn, Daniel Edward
Bonner, Robert
Boring, Frank Henry
Breckenridge, Fred John
Brown, Arthur Stanley
Brown, Creed H.

Walter Lee Johnstone, Chaplain,
Jacob Wiley Divelbiss, Sen. Deacon,
George Langlands Christie, J. Dea.,
Frank Marshall Cavanaugh, Marshal,
Joseph Byron Gordon, Steward,
Lloyd Woodward Cole, Steward,
Frederick Parkin, T~,'ler.

MEMBERS:
Browne, Augustus Frank, P . M.
Buchman, Edward
Butte. Chris Frederick
Callesen, Fredric Peter
Cavanagh, Frank M.
Chidester, . Walter Clifford
Christie, Geo. Langland
Cochran, Francis Joseph
Cole, Lloyd Woodward
Cone, Wm. Henry
Cook, Finlay
Cough, George Walter
Crawford, Ralph Kallact
Divelbiss, Jacob Wesley

Dunton, Charles
Duthie, Charles
Earhart, George Hammond
Edwards, Milton
Elftman, Maximilian A.
Ensign, Leon Emmett
Eskilson, Chris
Farrar, Mercer Hoyle
Fendler, Theodore
Ferrin, Joseph Alicius
Fisher, Carl Wallace
Fisher, Edgar Pearly
Glascock, William Leon
Glidden, Willard Wesley
Gordon, Joseph Byron
Gracier, Seth Bertram
Grant, Andrew William
Green, Allan Lee
Green, Charles Arthur
Green, Eldridge
Gree:&, Kenneth Milton, P. M.
Green, Milton James, P. M.
Hansen, Albert Marquid Otto
Haskell, Greenleaf Adelbert
Hatch, Alvin Schuyler
Henwood, Arthur William
Hermance, Harry P.
Herrick, ClaTence G.
Higgins, Adolphus R. E.
Howard, Victor St. Clair
Hoyle, Archbow Livingstone
Hunter, Joseph Slayton
Ignace, Ernest
Izzard, John
Janssen, Henry Godfried
Johnston, James Gilbert
Johnstone, Walter Lee, P. M.
Kelley, John Joseph
Kennedy, James Joseph
Kennedy, Joseph
Kettlewell, William
Lawrence, Gr~ve, P. M.
Lawrence, William Babcot>k, P. 1111.
Laurenco, Jacinto
Levy, Andri

Levy, Edmond L.
Levy, Fernand
Levy, Fernand A.
Levy, Henry Naph
Levy, Joseph, P. M.
Luft', Herbert, P. M.
MacArthur, Ralph Crane
McCurdy, J. Erwin
McGilvray, Harry S.
Mead, Benjamin L.
Milliken, Albert
Morrison, Norman Donald
Munro, William
Nelson, Harry Lewis
Nelson, Horace
Nelson, William
Nichols, Chevier Ezekiel
Nickerson, Geo. Raymond
Notley, George Andrew
Painton, Harry Renowdcn
Parkin, Frederick
Parr, Harry Hannibal
Peckham, Harry Augustus
Peckham, John Bryant
Penton, Jesse, P. M.
Phillips, Charles Orval
Plummer, Sanford
Rawles, Robert Allen
Raymond, William Harrison
Royden, Herbert Nathan
Rue, Joseph
Russell, John
Schwab, John A.
Schneider, William Rudolph
Shand, John Edward
Smith, Andrew
Smith, Joseph
t:!mith, Lewis Anson
Smith, Willard M.
Sneath, George Richard
Sneider, Geo. William
Soule, Jo-bn Alden, P. M.
Sprout, Sidney Smith
Taylor, Henry Wm.
Taylor, Boward Matthew

' 359

•

j

s61

ROST EB

360

Thompson, Hiram Walter
Walling, Horace Herbert
'l'hompson, William Edward
Warren, Harry C. 1
Tilton, Howard Quincy
\'l'l!liams, ·Edward---L.
Tourtelotte, William Ellsworth
Wisnom, John
Turnbull, William Fisher
,
Wisnom, Robert James
Vandenbos., Chades. August, P. M. Wisnom, Wm. Donnan
Vankammen, Nicholas
Wood, Thomas
Wainwright, Charles Arthur, P. M. Worsley, Harold Rollin
-135

WITHDRAWN:
Ogborn, Joseph Benton
Edwards, Burt Ernest
Ryan, Mark Edward
Moulton, Eddy Stillman
Sanderson, Fred Grant
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brill, Arthur Thaddeus
Golden, George Charles
Waggoner, Fieldon Woolman

White, Charles
Wilson, Arthur Hague
Allen, Charles
'DIED:
Lafranchi, Antonio
Levy, Armand A.

Bonzani, Antonio
Hatch, James

ATHENS LODGE, No. 228.
Davis, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles Edward Schoff, Master,
Benjamin B. Tuttle, Chaplain,
Davis, Cal.
Henry Hamil, Senior Deacon,
Frederick W. Wilson, Senior Ward., F. Flossfeder, Junior Deacon,'
Carrol M. Ray, Junior Warden,
Theo. Oeste, Marshal,
John B. Anderson, Treasurer,
Samuel S. Sanders, Steward,
Henry W . Filbert, Secretary,
Otto Eggert, Steward,
Davis, Cal.
Hiram H. Smith, Tyler.

Anderson, Andrew Gordon
Anderson, John B.
Bates, Walter Emest, P. M.
Bowcock, Thomas John
Brady, Albert, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Brady, James Henry
Brady, Patrick H ., P. M.
Brady, Thomas, P. M.
Brunson, Ruben B., P. M.
Carey, George Ransome

Chamberlin, Vincent J.
Majors, Ernest William
Uovell, Arthur Calvin
Merrick, Orlando Briggs
Dicky, Thomas John
Miller, Albert James
Dietrich, Charles John
Miner, Guy L.
Dyer, Edwin Lee
Oeste, Carl Theo. P. M.
Eggert, Edmund William
Purinton, James Parker
Filbert, Harry Wesley
Ray, Carrol Martin
Flossfeder, Carl Hermann Frederick Read, Samuel Milford
Fowler, Ralph Melville
Reid, Samuel McNeir
Gallion, Thomas William
Reith, John, Jr.
Greene, Charles Edmond, P . M.
Roberts, Rogers M.
Gu<le, Richard
Robson, Hugh A., P. M.
Gude, Richard Emile
Rowe, Jesse Gray, Jr.
Gallagher, Joseph James, P. M.
Russel, Frank Edwin
Hamil, George Frederick, P. M.
Russel, William Ogburn, P. M.
Hamil, Henry Jacob
Sanders, Geo. Warren
Hamil, William Charles
Sanders, Samuel S.
Hand, William Henry
Schoff, Charles Edward, P. M.
Hanson, Claude M.
Sharp, Myron Phillander
Haussler, George John
Smith, Frederick Philo
Haussler, William Jacob Fred 'k ·
Smith, Hiram Henry
Henle, John Frederick, P. M.
Snider, Eli
Henle, Joseph
Taylor, John
Hillman, Arthur Constantine
Tuft, Andrew Jackson
Hite, Bert
Tuttle, Benjamin B., P. M.
Hoffman Le Roy
Weber, Frank
Hustis, Arthur Franklin
Wilson, Frederick Wamer
Hyde, Clarence Craig
Wire, Franklin 1Jenjamin, P. M.
Klays, Addison
Wire, James Elzy, P. M.
Lehrman, August Fred
Woods, William Louis, P. M.
Libby, Alvin Bates
Wyatt, Walter
Light, Chas. Morton
Zane, George Solon
Lillard, Thomas Wilber
-75
WITHDRAWN:
Butterfield, Elmer Pixley
DIED:
Stamp, George

ROSTER

362

SOLANO LODGE, No. 229.
Vallejo, Solano County.
Stated Meeings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Herbert Frank Gordon, Master,
Adam Armstrong McAlister, Chap.,
303 Alameda St., Vallejo, Cal.
Samuel Lyttle, Senior DeacQn,
John Miller Inglis, Sen. Warden,
Harry August Frahm, Jun. Deacon,
Osgood Harold Hilton, Jun. Warden, Andrew Jackson Whitney, Marshal,
Andrew White, Treasurer,
Walter Sidney Brittin, Steward,
Alonzo Sherman Halliday, Secretary, Merritt Frisbie Winchell, Steward,
P. O. Box 393, Vallejo, Cal.
Zachariah Antonio Jamison, Tyler.

Alden, Henry Charles
Anderson, Augustus
Anderson, Carl
Anderson, William Oliver
Annette, Jamee Lovell
Arner, Milton Elijah
Atkine, George
Auerbach, Paul Harold
Axlund, Andrew Emanuel
Ayling, Albert Walter
Babcock, Harry Bird
Barnewitz, Fred William
Bartley, Herman Harry
Bassford, Fordham Clay
Baumeister, Edward Emery
Beronio, David Austin
Bettieworth, Allen Gari
Binion, Mark ·John
Black, Frank Jerry
Booth, Charles Maclay
Boquet, Arthur
Brittin, Walter Sidney
Brownridge, George Thomas
Bunker, Frank Summer
Burrall, Charles Frederick
Byran, Thomae Pierson
Byrne, George Clinton
Byrns, Ray Wadley
Cahill, Chae. Fred 'k.

MEMBERS:
Casper, Albert Russell
Clark, Tremore Austin
Claxton, Jamee Bedford
Clyne, John Rose
Colline, Howard Ephriam
Cooper, Johnston Hilliard, P. M.
Crandall, William Green
Cropp, Jamee Carlyle
Damstedt, Neil Carl
Dantzig, Phineas
Davidson, Edward W.
Deboldt, Frederick Rufus, P'. M.
Demmon, Arthur Grant
Demmon, George Washington
Demmon, Robert Hatfield
Dempsey, Fred 'k. Marion
Dempsey, Harrison Edward
Dempsey, Robert Boune
Dick, Thomas Brown, P. M.
Dinsmore, George Hollister
Donnel, Albert Franklin
Doolittle, Robert Curtis
Douglass, Charles Wallace
Dowdell, Frederick William
Drapeau, Frank Michael
Dufour, Dempsey Franklyn
Edmonston, Brook
Evans, Earl Darrell
Evans, Joel Clemente

ROSTER
Farnham, John, P. M.
Jamison, Zacharian Antonio
Fisch, Fred·
Johnson, James Walter
Fitzgerald, Clarence Aehbury
Johnson, Jesse Claude
Fitzgerald, Jenkins Augustus
1ohnson, Seward Thomas
Flatland, Martin
Johnston, John Robinson
Fowler, Lewis Harvey
Jolla.in, Joseph
Frahm, Henry August
·Jones, Thomas David
Fritehaw, Chester
Jone:i, Thomas William
Friedman, Bernard
Kaul, Herman Richard
Funk, Jacob Louie
Keys, Charles Bernard
Gant, Walter Scott
Kidd, Ronald Stanwix
Garland, Fred Hildreth
Kitteringham, John James, Jr.
Gee, Harry Auburn
Kregelo, John Grant
Gee, James, Jr., P. M.
Kress, Charles Brook
Gee, William, Jr., P. M.
Kroeger, Henry John
Giant, Mathew Kevork
Kroner, Leonard Frederick
Goldman, George Rowland
Larmour, Harry
Goltz,~ Carl Garfield
Laughlin, Bernard
Gordon, Herbert Frank
Laviere, Frank
Graham, Arthur Garfield
Lauler, Charles Edward
Griffin, Benj. Franklin
Lazelle, Henry Daniel, P. M.
Halliday, Alonzo Sherman, P. M.
Leachman, Ream Sesastris
Halliday, George Grant, P. M.
Lewis, Mount Claire
Handlery, Harry
Lockwood, Robert George
Harrisd'n, Louis Garibaldi, P. M.
Loeftler, John Melchoir
Harris, George
·
Longfellow, George Wash.
Harris, George Gregory
Lovell, Adrian Philip
Harrison, William P.
Lundgren, Charles
Hatch, Charles Napier
Lyon, Andrew Franklin
Hatton, James Franklin
Lyttle, Samuel
Hecker, George
Madsen, Chas.
Hendele, Bernard
Marshall, James
Hepburn, Alexander Jamee
MacLean, David
Higgins, Jamee Robert
MacLean, James Henry
Hill, Carl Albin
McAlieter, Adam Armstrong
Hill, James E llison
Mccarte, George
Hilton, Osgood Harold
·McDonald, Charles Wood
Hinrichs, Max Arthur
McNally, Michael Joseph
Hoey, Hugh Dennis
Melvin, Nathaniel
Hosung, Charles Henry
Mende, Paul Otto .
Ingels, Bert Dee
Menefee, Frank
Inglia, John Miller
Michael, Harry Lockwood
Irvine, John
Miller, Frederick Heinrich Theo.
Itrich, Franz Antone
. Miller, Herman Karl
Jacobson, Charles Simon
Miskin, Albert Stanton

363

364

ROS'l'ER

ROSTER

Murphy, Frank Arthur
Murphy, James Gordon
Morris, Frank Napoleon, P. M.
Murray, Samuel
Nee, John Rolland
Nelson, Jens
Nord, Johan Erikson
Olson, Erland
Olsen, Ole
Olsen, Oluf Magnus
Orr, James
Palmer, Wm. Barker
Peabody, Frank Joseph
Peabody, George Hewitt, P. M.
Pierce, Walter Stanley, P . M.
Pingston, Lovick Pierce
Pixley, Howard Romeyne
Prastka, Anthony
Pressey, William Brown
Raahange, Robert
Ramsay, John, P. Jiii.
Randolph, Clifford Eli
Ratto, Charles
Raymond, Joseph
...1chardson, Mitchell
Ripsom, Frank Herbert
Robert, Frank Hamilton
Rohertson, Robert Lavery, P. M.
Roney, James, P. M.
Roney, George Allen
Roney, Wm. Shillingsburg
Rose, John M.
Rottier, Christian Ludwig
Ruch, Charles Henry
Ruppe, Louis Earl
Russell, Eugene Berry
Sanderson, James Edward, P. M.
Saunders, Ernest Layton
Scott, Harry Eugene
Scott, Wayne Halstead
Shillingsburg, Elias
Smith, Adam
Smith, Arthur

Smith, Curtis Quthbert .
Smith, Henry Judson
Smith, William Owen
Smith, Wm. Whittoch
Snyder, Wm. Kenneth
Sparber, George William
Stephenson, George ·
' 8treet, Augustus Marion
Sorensen, Peter Karl Kristian
Squire, Harry Edwin
Stanford, Wm. Townsend
Stephenson, William B .• P. M.
Stewart, Carl Vere
Stiles, William Enos
Street, August Marlsberger
Street, William Thomas
Swain, Hewett Leslie
Sweet, Fred Samuel
Talbot, Stanwood Edward
Terry, Clinton Hays
Thompson, George, P. M.
Thompson, Herbert Leslie
Thompson, John
Thompson, Rowland Maynard
Towle, Herbert Augustus
Trevey, Archie C.
'l'ufreson, August Fredericksen
Twiggs, Paul Eve
Valleno, Harry Henry
Van Prooyen, Fortune
Wagoner, Missouri Arnold
Walter, John Fred, P. M.
Ward, William Frank
Way, Lewis Phelps
Westfall, Paul Walter
White, Andrew
Whitney, Andrew Jackson, P. M
Willey, Alden Bridgman
Williams, Obed Everett
Wilks, Julius
Wilson, Joseph Ross
Winchell, Merritt Frisbie
Winton, John Wilton, P. U.

Wood, Charles Lyman
Wortman, John Samuel
Wyman, Irwin Berle

365

Yutzy, Edgar Lee
Zechman, Charles Munroe

-239
WITHDRAWN:

Anderson, Theodore

Gunn, .R obert Glasgow

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT Ol!' IJUES:
Barnhart, Leo Frank
Pedersen, James Peter
Dunkerly, William Henry
Treese, Elhaunan Johnson
Jones, Humphrey B.
Weirman, Samuel Arthur
DIED:
Judd, Edward Clarence

NORTH BUTTE LODGE, No. 236.
Gridley, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Arnold, Theodore Henry
Baldwin, William Thomas
Baltimore, Charles Ashbury
Barker, Roy William
Beebee, Robert Martin
Bigelow, Marcus James, P. M.
Biggs, Edward Earnest, P. Jiii.
Bissett, George Wallace
Bissett, Thomas McCoy
l:llair, George Wesley, P. M.
Block, Charles Henry
Bonslett, Arnold
l:lonslett, William Arnolil
Brown, Charles Henry
Brown, Charles Henry
Burleson, William Davis

Campbell, Richard, P. M.
Campbell, Riley
Cbannon, Thomas Bending
Chase, Charles Warren
Crusick, Fred
Cutts, Walter Bryant
Daniels, George Seymoui
Evans, David Humphrey, P. M.
Fagan, Edward
Fagan, Edward Peter
Fagan, James Porter, P. M.
Galbreath, James Thomas, P. M.
Girdner, Leroy Eugene
Granier, Charles
Hampton, James Madison
Harkey, William Pinckney

ROSTER

ROSTER

366

Hansen, Albert Franklin
Hill, Robert Arthur
Hauck, Charles Wesley
Henninger, James
Hirschfield, Louis Monroe
Holdridge, Henry Earl
Humble, William James
Hutchins, John Sullivan
Hutchins, Thomas Boyd
Jones, John Harvey
King, Clarence Elmer
J,avy, Wm. Sebastian
Long, Thomas Jackson, P. M.
Marshall, James, P. M.
Mayer, Chris Henry
McAuslin, Wm. Adam
McCurry, Samuel Baxter
Mitchell, Frank Chester
Moore, Charles Alonzo, P. M.
Mouid, William
Munter, Bernhard, P. M.
Myers, James
Myers, John Calvin
Norman, Richard Augustus, P. M.
Ownby, James

Marders, Robert Ambrose
Marks, Henry
McClure, William Francis, P. M.
Meyer, Victor
Newberg, Emmanuel
Ornbaun, Wm. Francis
Peterson, Peter Hanson
Perry, Alex. Collier
Potter, Chester Arthur
Purdy, Edward
Randrup, William
Rea, Joseph Nelson
Rhoads, William Denham
Spurlock, Thomas Franklin
Squires, George Elmer
Stuck, Andrew Jackson
Thomson, Francis Marion
Travis, John Henry
Tuttle, Lorenzo Brady
\'an Dyke, William S., Jr., P. M.-46
DIED:

Bennett, Josiah
Burton, Andrew Hayden

Eldred, Horace Alexander
Foster, Jesse Gilbert

-81

WITHDRAWN:
Barker, Washington Dunn
DIED:
Crumb, Jones

COVELO LODGE, No. 231.
Covelo, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

Davis, Wm. Henry
Dennis, Amos
Dennis, William Ritchie
Dowd, John Edward
Finley, George Wear
Fiske, James Saxon
Gibson, Edwin
Gravier, Edward Alex.
Grist, John Wesley
Hall, ~enry Miller
Ham, Whitcomb
Handy, Philo
Hansen, Christian
Hargrave, Walter
Hurt, ChP-rles Henry, P. M.
Jamison, David Allison, P. M.
Lampley, Charles
Lampley, J·ames Monroe
Liftchild, Judson, P. M.
Lovell, Henry Solon, P. M.

Rathbun, DaviJ L.
Schoen, Granville A very
Shannon, George Washington
Shaeffer, John Franklin ·
Shelley, Luther Madison
Simpson, William Edward
Smith, Almon
Sperry, Willard Felton
Stafford, Thomas Henry
Stafford, William Henry
Stanton, Edgar Wm., Jr.
Swai n, Wm. Allin
Sweeney, Oroville Clarence
Todd, Nelson Franklin
Turner, David J.
Turner, Harry Bennett
Turner, John Roe
Waistell, Raymond Charles
Wickman, Henry Ernest
Wilson, William Christopher
Wolf!', Louis Joseph
Wolff, William Charles
Woodworth, Homer Allen, P. M.
Young, Sewell John, P. M.

367

JANESVILLE LODGE, No.

232.

Janesville, Lassen County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Stanley Edison Tyler, Master,
Granville Pullen, Chaplain,
Janesville, Cal.
Loren Asa Fisher, Senior Deacon
Charles Harry Fisher, S . Warden, Orio Edmund Wemple, Jun. Deac~n,
Ira Eugene Bailey, Junior Warden, Samuel Harold Crow, Marshal,
James Irvin Christie, Treasurer,
William Henry Clark, Steward,
Arad Way, Secretarj',
Charles Edgar Wilbur, Steward,
Janesville, Cal.
John ]. Johnson, Tyler.

See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:

Anger, Wm. Frederick
Biggar, George Milton
Bowers, Henry Owen

MEMBERS:
Brown, Albert Martin
Brown, Charles Ira
Cummins, David Brown

Agee, William Emmet
Bailey, George Benton
Bailey, Ira Eugene, P. M.
Bass, Stephen Shore

Bond, Jeremiah, P. M.
Broadwell, Jacob William
Bronson, William Marshal
Christie, James Irving, P. M.

ROSTER

368

Christie, John Burton, P. M •.
Clark, Charles Bates
CJark, Otis
Clark, William Henry
Crow, Samuel Harold, P. M.
DeWitt, Walter Beauregard
Doyle, Leo Walter
Doyle, Oscar Hill
Doyle, Otis Marks, P. M.
Dill, William Andrew
Elledge, Robert Wade
Fisher, Chas. Harry
Fisher, Homer Clifton
Fisher, Loren Asa
Fortner, Samuel John Thomas
Grass, Leonard
Greeno, George William
Hall, Albert J.
Hammond, Harry James
Hemler, John Oscar
Jellison, Gordon Grover
Jellison, John Edwin
Johnson, Guy Pleasant, P. M.
Johnson, John

Johnston, Fred Robert
Laufman, Edwin Douglas
Laufman, Jonas Welsh
Leavitt, George Benjamin
Leavitt, James Byers
Marlor, Thomas Smith
Miller, Thomas W.
Pattan, Adelbert Earl
Price, David Crocket
Pullen, Granville, P. M
Rowland, Clark Church
Smith, Isaiah Wright
Stiles, Lyman Goumaz
Theodore, John Thomas
Tucker, William Henry
Tyler, Stanley Edison, P. M.
Way, Arad, P. M.
Wemple, Jay C.
Wemple, N. V.
Wemple, Orio Edmund
Wilbur, Charles Edgar
Wilbur, Francis Leander
Wilbur, Thomas Ford
Wood, James Alexander, P . M. -56

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Greichten, George Pierce Von

Meylert, Gordon W.

DIED:
Rowland, Edgar F.

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.

ROSTER
Billings, Elmore Myron, P. M.
Boland, Michael Sixon, P. M.
Butler, John Samuel
Butler, Samuel Reed
Callahan, Wm. Daniel
Carroll, Charles Afton, P. M.
Clement, Henry James, P. M .
Golburn, William Abbott
Collins, Nelson Walton
Conner, Newton
Cordes, Tobias John
Crouch, Charley Wiley, P. M.
Crouch, Francis Asahel
Crouch, Frank Sherman, P. M.
Cutler, Frederick Markham.
Cutler, George Starr
Davis, Charles Greer
Decker, Porter Alfred
Easley, Roderick Hugh
Evey, David Douglass
Farmer, George Lester
Finch, James George
Foss, Charles Clark
Frank, Ferdinand, P. M.
Gehrman, Frank
Gerber, John Francis
Gibbs, Horace Lockwood
Gravel, Francis Xavier
Gray, Robert Wallace
Hicklin, George Thomas
Higgins, Andrew Jackson
Hoover, Abram
Hoover, Charles Marion
Hopkins, Peter, Jr.

Calistoga, Napa County.

Hunter, Giles Emory
Johnston, Richard Purchase
Kahn, Adolph James
Kimball, Ruel Mather
Kirkpatrick, William Alan
Le1ner, Paul
.
Light, Edward Ephriam, P, M.
Light, Ephriam
:Maclean, Marcus Alexander
Martin, John Jeffrey
Martin, Oscar
Mason, Alex. Francis
Mathewson, Carleton
McArthur, Archibald Henry
Miller, Harry Baughman, P. M.
Monroe, William Alex.
Parish, Henry Lincoln
Patten, Harry Edgar L.
Pickett, Charles Nathan, P. M.
Pickett, Roy Dustin
Rassmussen, Rolla
Robinson, James Perey
Rutherford, John Ritchie
Safley, James Hunter
Shook, Arthur Lowell
Siemsen, John William, P. M.
Tamagni, Charles
Teale, Flyod Lester
Ward, A. P.
Willis, David Conner
Wilson, John Clarence, P. M.
W olleson, Martin
Wright, Joseph William
Wright, Joseph Carson, P. M. -74

WITHDRAWN:

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
i>eakin, Eslie Burt

Wright, Fred 'k A.

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

DIED:

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Ashton, Franklin, P. M.
Abrons, Harry
BaSBett, Ezra Amador
Adams, Ira Winchell
Benvie, George P.
Armstrong, Elbert Lawrence

Arms, William

369

Brown, Harry Harding

ROSTER

371

ROSTER

370

HOPE LODGE, No. 234.
Beck:With, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICE.RS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Laffranchini, Louis Antone
Arms, William Street
La Flam, Walter Henry
Bergeret, Joseph Aubin
Lawier, Robert Emmett
Bergeret, Lucien Aubin
Lawrence, Jackson Hathaway
Campbell, Francis Henry
Lawson, John Jacob
Clark, Eugene Edwin
Lesser, Julius
Davis, Atha .Earl
Martin, Richard
Dyer, Charles
Mathews, John Lewis
Ede, Albert Arthur
Mathews, Roger David, P. M.
Ede, Charles Walter
Maxwell, George Albion
Ede, Leonard Greely, P. M.
Merry, Joseph Francis
Ede, Stephen Robert, P. M.
Middleton, John William
Evans, William
Neseman, Fred John
Guidiei, Maurecillio
Reynolds, Wm. Clarence
Hamlin, Ray Arms
Ramelli, David
Heriot, David
Ripley, John Calvin
Holman, George Prescott
Robertson, Alexander
Hughes, Llewellyn Bayes, P. M.
Ross, James Lincoln
Humphrey, James Lockhart
Scolari, Peter
Hunter, George Calvin
Shaughnessy, Hughie
Johnson, Robert Lee
Smith, William Mitchell
Joy, Charles Riley
Thomas, Sylvester Augustus
Joy, Frank S.
Totten, John Graham
Laffranchini, Acquilio Peter
Webster, James Wellman
Laffranchini, Antone
Yarrington, Lester Booth, P. M.
Laffranchini, Charles
Young, Plumas Arthur
Laffranchini, Chas. David
-53
Dedmon, John Washington

WITHDRAWN:
Nutter, Frank Leslie

SURPRISE VALLEY LODGE, No. 235.
Cedarville, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each Month.
OFFICE:<l.S:

Winston .Decatur Coates, Master,
George Marion Warrens, Chap/ai11,
Cedarville, Cal.
· Thomas Brompton Sizer, Sen. Deac.,
Chris Hans Hansen, Senior Warden, William Harvey McCormick, Jun. D.,
Raymond Jacob Turner, Jun. Ward., William Leroy Turner, Marshal
William T . Cressler, Treasurer,
George Clark Turner, Steward:
Ransom Heenan Stanley, Secretary, James Wylie, Steward,
Cedarville, Cal.
Joseph A. Bridgman, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Baker, Raymond Roy
Mullins, William, P. M.
Berry, Doctor Champlin
Murdock, William Stewart
Bridgeman, Joseph A.
Page, Absalom Lafayette
Parman, William Joseph
Brown, Chas. Francis
Pyle, Charles Hunter
Burgun, Wm.
Ratcliff, Osmond
Bnrns, Frank
Richardson, Elijah Allen
Coates, Winston Decatur, P. M.
Rose, Anthony
Cook, Harry Drake
Cressler, William T.
Scott, Gabriel Jackson
Shartel, William Warren
Cummins, Charles Edwin
Shirk, Lawson Herbert
Ehrhardt, George Edward
Sizer, Thomas Brompton
Gray, Elijah Davidson
Sly, John Elison
Grove, David Henry
Snelling, Roy L.
Hansen, Chris Hans
Hansen, John Henry
Stanley, Ransom Heenan, P. M.
Hansen, Louis
Stevens, Ward Spooner, P. M.
Trimble, James Henry
flill, William Edmond
Turner, George Clark
Jones, Joseph Lewis
Turner, William Leroy
(,amb, Maurice Daniel
Lindemenn, John Burnam
Van Doren, William Edgar
Warrens, Geo. Marion
Lyon, Fred Irving
Warrens, J. Edward
McClintock, Frank
McCormick, William Harvey, P. M. Wylie, James, P. M.
Minto, Robert Wield
Winder, Norman, P. M.
MoTgau, John Calvin
-4!1
DIED:
.fol nstonc, Thomas Henry

372

ROSTER

HILL'S FERRY LODGE, No. 236.
Newman, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

ROSTER
WITHDRAWN:
Worthington, Andrew Jackson
SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Woodworth, Alvin Orton

OFFICERS:

Leland Harris Parker, Master,
George Henry Bartmann, Sen. Dmc.,
Newman, Cal.
Arthur Henry Fink, Junior Deacori,
Guy Bradley Stoyell, Senior Warden, Glenn Darius Newton, Marshal,
William James Burris, Junior Ward., J ames Aubrey Riddle, Steward,
Thomas Grayson Yancey, Treasurer, William S. Bell, Steward,
Howell Venable Armistead, Sec.,
Elmer Kuhns, Tyler.
Newman, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Armistead, Howell Venable, P. M. Mills, Henry Hammer
Bartch, Frederick ·
Morris, Julius
Bartmann, George Henry
Jllewton, Glenn Darius
Bell, Wm. Stansel
Ostrom, Gilbert Paul
Berry, Charles Frederick
Parker, Leland Harris, P. M.
Bunk,er, Frederick Edgecomb
Paulsen, Carl Peter, P. M.
Bunker, William Edwin
P.fitzer, Frank
Burris, William James
Riddle, James Aubrey
Cain, Jules George Sincere, P. M.
Robison, Elisha Henry
Crow, Edward Wayman
Russell, John
Crow, George Henry, P. M.
Schank, Charles William
Shepherd, Rufus E.
·
Dalby, Samuel Price
Dixon, Edward Rucker
Smith, Hartley Roy
Dobrzensky, Adolph
Snyder, John Frank
Draper, Wilber Fisk
Sowers, William Bablan
Dunning, William Albion
Stoyell, Guy Bradley
Edgecomb, Frederick
Stratton, John Augustus, P. M.
Elfers, Charles Deidrick
Stuhr, Jasper Nicolaisen
Fink, Arthur Henry
Thompson, Nilse Andrew
Hunt, Martin Luther
Trefts, Charles Edgar
Jensen, Hans
Tucker, Homer Celcis
Kaufman, Norman Wilson
Wanlhaus, Julius
Kuhns, Elmer
Wirt, Duane Arth~r
Lockwood, Nathan Kilburn
Witcher, Wm. Vincent, Jr.
Yancey, John Hardin, P. M.
Macdonald, Geo. Childs
Yancey, Thomas Grayson
McLaughlin, Robert Emmett
McMurtry, Louis Campbell
Yates, Albert Davis
Merwin, Guy Willis
Yates, Albert Lansing, P. M. -56

DIED:
Fortune, James Pulaski

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 237.
Guadalupe, Santa Barbara County.
etated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

• (No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Abernethy, Fred Clive
Albert, Walter
Anderson, Harry L.
Aquistapace, Felice
Birra, Giuseppe
Bledsoe, John Thomas
Burola, Isarel M.
Campodonico, Frank Edward
Campodonieo, Stephen, P. M.
Charvoz, Alfonso M., P. M.
Clausen, Samuel
Conner, Gregory Carl
Decota, John Robert
Deising, Walter Hugh
Dickie, Daniel
Dundas, John Maurice
Esterbrook, G. G.
Ferini, Peter ·
Fixter, Alfred
Fuller, Ernest Pearl
Gerve, Henry Robert
Giacomazzi, John, P. M.
Giacomini, Paul
Green, Edwin Burrow

Guzzi, Clemente
Hall, Elmer McKinzie
Hawkins, Floyd Huston
Johnston, Sidney Alonzo
Lanotti, Virgil, P. M.
Lafranchi, Angelo
Laughlin, Henry James
Lewty, David
Lucas, Lee Foreman
Lucas, William Thomas, P. G. M.
Mccandles, Grover Cleveland
McCoy, Francis Joaeph, P. M.
McCoIJough, Eugene
McDoweH, John Bersford
McFarland, Thurston
Moore, Geo. W.
Morganti, Avellino
Newton, William T.
Olson, Charles Augusto11
Pala, Carlo
Palmer, Alfred, P. M.
Pezzoni, Ernest .Tuliu11
Pezzoni, Vittore
Pius, Charles

373

ROSTER

ROSTER

374
Powell, John Reese
Pratt, Frank James
Rains, . Arthur Bascom
Purkiss, Myrton Marcus
Rathbun, Fay Fillmore
Ray, Geo. Michael
Righetti, Frank
Rosenblum, William
Scott, David Silas
Smith, .Martin Luther
Smith, Thomas Russell
Souza, Antonio Jose

Stokes, Walter William, P. M.
Thompson, James Albert
Tognazzini, Tilden Constance
Tognazzini, Ullise
Tomasini, Joseph Rolindo
Trefy, Allen William H.
Wade, Henry
Waller, Leone D.
Woolley, Albert Vale
Wright, Harvey Lee
Zanetti, Severino
-71

EXPELLED:
Sampson, William Foster
DIED:
Pezzoni, Battista

COLUSA LODGE, No.

240.

Colusa, Colusa County.
Stated .Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Harry Freeman Osgood, Master,
Henry Milton Bruce, Chaplain,
'Colusa, Cal.
William Lloyd Merrill, Sen. Deacon,
Ferdinand J. Mendensa, Sen. Ward., Joseph Baum, Junior Deacon,
Herman Jacobsen, Junior Warden, Frank Zea Pirkey, Marshal,
Lora Lean Hicok, Treasurer,
Cressey Johnston Wescott, Steward,
\Villiam Thomas Beville, Secretary, Thomas Elmer Cook, Steward,
Colusa, Cal.
William N eichouls Herd, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Butler, Albert Burto·n
Ahlf, Adolphus, P. M.
1,_;ook, Thomas Elmer
Ahlf, George Peter, P. M.
Ahlf, Herman
Cosner, Robert, P. M.
Ahlf, John Claus
DeJarnatt, John Burris
Denhardt, Thornton Templeton
Anderson, Archibald .Barron
Daly, Arthur Burton
Arnold, Phil Brent
Baum, Joseph
Denton, Harry E.
Beville, William Thomas
Etter, Henry Haverlock
Blean, William Clive
Farnsworth, George Noble
Blevins, Robert Edward
Ford, Samuel Ben
Goad, James Wilkins
Boulware, Alex. Stockton
Brown, Uriah Waverly
Greenfell, LeRoy W.
Buster, William }larrison
Grover, Johnson

Hall, Henry Luster
Harden, George Beatty
Harrington, Tennent
Harrington, William .Merrill
Hart, James
Hicok, Lora Lean, P. M.
Herd, Wiiliam Nichols
Holloway, Edward Shortridge
Hubbard, William Henry
Hurlbert, Randolph
Jacobson, Emil
Jacobson, Hermann
Jackson, John Lowry
Jamison, Wm. Thomas
Kass, John
Kilgore, Frank
Kilgore, Orrin J.
McLean, Francis George
McNary, James David, P. M.
McVay, Irwin Nelson
McVay, Willis Nelson
Mendonsa, Fernando Janquin
Merrill, Wm. Lloyd
.Mitchell, Burr Hudson
Mogk, John Charles
Moore, George W., P. M.
Osgood, Harry Freeman
Pinney, William Moree
Poundstone, J eese

Pirkey, Frank Zea
Poage, Charles Allen
Rathbun, William Timothy
Retterath, George
Robinson, Oscar, P. M.
Rummeleburg, Selig
Rutledge, Thomas, P. M.
St. .Maurice, Charles Albert de
St. .Maurice, Claude Edward de
St. .Maurice, George Ed. de
Scarlett, Arthur Everett
Scott, George Franchville
Showler, George Edward
Smith, George
Stanton, Joseph Byron, P. M.
Swinford, Edwin
Thayer, Albert Austin
Thompson, Milton James
Totten, .Marco Bozzarie
Turman, Louis Frank
Vann, Eugene Bird
Vann, William A.
Vickers, Elmer Albert
Wescott, Currey J ohneon
West, Joseph Simon
Wilson, Worth Wilbur
Young, Charles Walter
Zumwalt, Ivy George

375

j
1 •.

.t.J

-83
DIED:

O'Hair, .Michael

ROSTER

ROSTER

376

SANTA ANA LODGE, No.

241.

Santa Ana, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, J<'irst Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Hubert Howard Reeves, Chapfoin,
Prince Louis Tople, Maste r,
Frederick Clayton Rowland, S. Dea.,
320 S. Main Street, Santa Ana.
Leonard Frank Harvey, S. Wa,.den, Howard Allen Wassum, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Verne Whitson, J. Warden, Charles Ferdinand Crose, Marshal,
Jay Howard Turner, Steward,
Max Reinhaus, Tn:asurer,
Fred W . Winslow, Steward,
Ralph Waite Mead, S ec,.etary,
Washington Dunn Barker, Tyler.
117 E . Fourth St., Santa Ana.

Allen, Carrol V.
Anderson, John Nelton
Andre, H. Roy, P. M.
Albee, Charles Stolf
Atwood, Elmer Dennis
Au11tin, Frank Lincoln
Baker, Bayard 'J:aylor
Balderston, George, P. M.
Ball, Charles Dextek'
Barker, Washington Dunn
Barnes, Henry E. W.
Harnett, George Richard
Baxter, Charles Bruce
Beals, Albert
Beckwith, Fred Walter
Beisel, N eonal
Benedict, George Marshall
Bird, Addison Elliott
Blake, Edwin Meador
Blodgett, Volney Ebenezer
Bowers, Addison Crockett
Brakeman, Charles Warren
Brock, Neal Ulm
Brown, Ives L.
Brown, Nathaniel Nelson
Bundy, Milton John, P. M.
Bunker, Henry Warren
Butz, Adolph

MEMBERS:
Cavenagh, Robert
Chapman, Charles Herbert
Cheeney, Tilford Denton
Clapp, Benj. Lewis
Clark, John Ingra~
Clevenger, Wm. Warren
Cloyes, Frank Herbert
Cloyes, Mark Stillman
Cobau, David
Connell, Hiram Davia
Corbett, Robert Vance
Cox, John B.
Crookshank, Miles Mcinnes
Crose, Chas. Ferdinand
Crose, William H .
Cushman, Ruggles Allerton
Dale, Delbert Amos
Dabbs, Robert Andrew
Daneri, John B. M.
Davis, Samuel McClellan
Davis, John Colvin
Decker, George William
Decker, Willet 8.
De Long, James William
Diers, Henry
Dobson, George Henry
Dryer, John Lewis, P. M.
Dungan, Samuel Morrison

Duggan, William Lee
Dunstan, John
Eckley, Levi
Eden, Walter
Edgar, George Alex.
Edinger, Christopher Columbus
Emerson, Lewis Bleeper
Ey, Frank
Faust, George Andrew W.
Faust, Willis, Jr.
Ferguson, Joseph
Ferguson, Walter Perry
Forgy, Oly Koskuski
Fox, Charles William
French, Charles Edwin
Gardner, Arthur Bonnicastle
Gerwing, Robert
Gilmaker, Joseph
Glenn, Earl George, P. M.
Gordon, Howard Samuel
Greeley, John Philip, P. M.
Griffiths, George Whitefield, Jr.
Griffiths, William Light
Grubb, Wm. Lloyd
Halladay, Wm. David
Halsell, Oliver Linden
Hannah, Charles William
Harding, Foster William
Harris, Herman
Harvey, Leonard Frank
Hately, William
Haywood, John Saxton
Head, Horace Caldwell
Heaston, James Henry
Hermes, Albert
Hervey, Albert Rhodes
Hill, George Pliney
Hill, Louis Hamilton
Hill, Thomas Mone
Hilton, Everett
Hoffman, Frank Thomae
Holmes, Edwin D.
Holt, Clyde Torrey
Holt, John
Horton, Roy Seaton

Howenstein, Claude M.
Hull, Harold Guy
Innest William Law
Johnson, William Ira
Joslyn, Emmett William
Keech, Engene Elwin
Keeler, Marshal Lucius
Kelley, Charles Spurwell
Kellogg, Hiram Clay
Kelly, David Nicol
Kimball, John Wesley 'l'rue
King, John Richard
Kinley, James Frank
Koepsel, Arthur E.
Lamb, John Charles
Lamson, William Bradford
Langley, Edwin Theo., P. M.
Lane, Martin Luther
Lawrence, George Parker
Leihy, Harold Arthur
Leiser, William J .
Lentz, George
Lewis, Otto S.
Lewis, Thomas Jefferson
Livesey, James Edward
Levy, Louis
Lipking, Frederick William
Lovett, Charles Edward
Lutz, William Frederick
Luxton, Emanuel Henry
Majors, Emil Ritt
Makosky, Herman Frank
Mateer, Everett Thornton
Martin, John Henry
Mathews, Henry Thomas
Mathews, Mitchell
Mansur, Ca!los Fredrick, P. M.
Mansur, Fredrick Warren, P. M.
Mason, William Bertie
McCord, William Harris
McCormac, John Wealey
McDonald, George Henry
McDowell, John Colvin
McElree, Frank H.
McMath, Edgar Harrold

377

380

ROSTER

MAGNOLIA LODGE, No.

ROSTER

242.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated :Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Geo. Washington McComber, Master, Benj. Franklin Thomas, Chaplain,
Santa Barbara, Cal.
William Preston Butcher, Sen. Deac.,
Emmett Field Rodenbeck, S. Ward., Horace Arthur Sexton, /rm. Deac.,
Andrew Hochstata Smith, J. Ward., John Thompson Johnston, Marshal,
Jacob I. Eisenberg, Treasurer,
Allen Eugene Rogers, Stt'll!ard,
Philip 'Crother, Secretary,
George Albert Miller, Sttward,
Santa Barbara, Cal.
Samuel Manchester, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Hassinger, James Charles
Axtell, Joseph Daniel
Hawley, Walter Augustu1
Bainbridge, James Carden
Hayman, Albert
Baker, George Russell
Heck, John Welley, P. M.
Beatty, Clay Hathaway
Hoque, James Valentine
Bentz, Nathan
Bodine, Stacy
Hollings, Richard B.
Hollister, Harold Albert
Bond, Charles Scott
Butcher, William Preston, P. M.
Hunter, John Stockton
Butcher, Wm. Preston, Jr.
Hurst, Julius Harold
Carrel, George Russell
J ohnst-On, Fred Lyle
Johnston, John Thompson, P. M.
Clough, George Ben
Conant, Frank Adelbert, P. M.
Keiser, Milton Daniel
Kincaid, Joseph Albert
Crimminger, Charles Mance
Korthals, Wm. Herman
Crother, Philip
Cunnane, William Bernard
Kuster, Adolf I.
Lebo, Clarence Alva
Dane, George Burt
Linquist, August Ludvick
Day, William Clarence
Lowsley, James Dennis
Diehl, John Frederick
MacBratney, William Charles
Duffey, Homer Nelson
Madison, Arthur Edward
Eaves, Albert Thomas
Matthews, John
Eisenberg, Jacob I.
McComber, George Washington
Ewing, Frank John C. L.
:\lcPeak, Claude Erman
Farnsworth, Hugh T.
Miller, George Albert
Flick, Byard George
More, Warren D.
Frost, Samuel
Morton, James St. Clair
Gagner, Louis Edward
Nielson, Wiley Cleveland
Granger, Joseph Riley, P. M.
Phoenix, Charles Elwood
Hanlon, John
Reynolds, Ambrose
Hartell, John Edward

381

Smith, James Wilson, P. M.
Smith, Rufus Dana
Thomas, Benjamin Franltlin, P. M.
Thwaites, Lewis
Walker, George F.
West, John Edward
W estwick, George
Whipple, Joseph
Whitman, Roy Benum
Whittingham, Martin
Williams, Charles Henry
Williams, George Martin
Wilson, Jerome Calvip.
Winchester, Robert Fulton
Wood, Olio Leonard
-88

Reynolds, Charles Phillip, P. M.
Richardson, Lance, P. M.
Rickett.a, Sumw.er:fiel<l T., P. M.
Rodenbeck, Emmett Field
Rogers, Allen ~ugene
Ross, William
Rounsevel, Ashton William
Rounsevel, Lyman
Rounsevel, Walter Howland
Rust, William Lepage
Scales, Horace H.
Sexton, Horace Arthur
Sexton, Harry Eugene
Sloan, James Esler
Smith, Andrew Hochstata

WITHDRAWN:
tHickey, W. C.
tOnley, A. D.
Senteney, G. A.
Tubbs, J. T.
Humphrey, DeWitt C.

*Anderson, C. 0.
Christensen, Mads
Fish, H.B.
Fish, T. N.
Freemersdorf, W. F.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Monteith, A. E.

Lillard, J. B.

Clark, Wilson Lincoln

DIED:
Miller, W. I.

*Afftllated during the year.
tDegrees conferred during the year.

EUCALYPTUS LODGE, No. 243.
Haywa.rds, Alameda. County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month..
OFFICERS:
0

Martin J. Madison, Master,
Hayward, Cal.
Charles Frederick Suss, S. Warden,
William Wallace Haley, J. Warden,
Alonzo Bradford, Treasurer,
John Elmer Welsh, Secretary,
Hayward, Cal.

Edwin Frank Musson, Chaplain,
George Woodland Madeley, S. Dea.,
Harrison White Holmes, J. Deacon,
Soren Madsen, Marshal,
LeRoy Pratt, Steward,
Leonard Roscoe Rosenberg, Steward,
Carl Oscar Dahle, Tyler.

382

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Lassen, Hans
Alexander, Archie Addison
Long, Charles Stuart, P. M.
Alexander, George Edward
Lovejoy, William Robert
Armstrong, Joseph David
Macintosh, James Thomas
Backus, Matthew Watson
Madeley,
George Woodland
Banks, John Albert
Madison, Martin J., P. M.
Bockman, Frederick Herman
Madsen, Soren
Boc1<man, John Wi11,en
Maggioli, Silvio
Borree, James Johnson
Mansfield, George
Bradford, Alonzo
Martin, Paul
Bradford, Harry Alonzo
Mathiesen, Hans
Brier, Kenneth Wilford
Mathiesen, Peter
Brown, Ralph Stuart
May, Adam
Brunner, Henry Ernst
May, Christian Adolph
(;ha fin, John Benz
McConaghy, John, P. M.
Christiasen, Jens Lauritzen
McConaghy, Neal Alexander
Christensen, William Tyroll
Meek, William Ellsworth
Clawiter, Edward Henry
Meek,
William Harold
Crosby, Peter James
Moore, John Wesley
Curley, John Edward
Musson, Edwin Frank, P. M.
Cutler, Frederick Storer
Neudeck, Carl Nicholas
Dahle, Carl Oscar
Neudeck, Geo. Wm.
Dennis, Frank
Newman, George Henry
Edgar, George Avery
Nielson, Theodore
Edwards, Samuel C.
Oliver, Adolph August
Eggert, Herman Arthur
Oliver, Henry Andrew
Fenton-Smith, William Harvey
Parsons, Isaac Brown
Fiseher, Albert Ehrhardt
Petray, Henry Calvin
Frick, George William, P. M.
Pickeni<. William Wash.
Gray, George
Pratt, Le Roy Elijah
Gorrie, Thomas Cullen
Prosser, John Raymond
Grindell, George Edward
Prowse, Charles
Haley, William Wallace
Prowse, Joseph Brndshaw
Harder, Jacob
Ramage, William Arthur
Harrison, George E.
Reid, Rinaldo
Hinckley, Horace Cameron
Rosenberg, Leonard Roscoe
Holmes, Harrison White
Rowlands, William Edward, P. 114.
Howland, Eli
Russell, Thomas Bartlett, P. M.
Johnson, Matthis
Schafer, Henry August, P. M.
Johnson, Peter
Sequeria, John Joseph
Jones, Edward William
Sorensen, Hans
Kavanagh, Geo. Walter
Sorensen, Lawrence T.
Kolze, Robert Aug. Frank, P. M.
Spandan, Robert Denby
Krap, Jes Mathaus Hansen

Stanton, Thomas Joseph
Strobridge, Bert A.
Strobridge, James Harvey
Stuart, Charles
Suss, Charles F.
Thomsen, Hans

Thorup, Harold
Turri, Matteo
Wahl, Herbert Ni<>holas
Welsh, John Elmer, P. M.
WilliamR, Arthur Walker
Worrell, Leo Pr_eston

383

-98

WITHDRAWN:
Montgomery, Bert Beamer
DIED:
Reynolds, George Edmund

ALCATRAZ LODGE, No. 2440akland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
· OFFICERS:

Jacques Leonard Vanderbos, Master, John Crossman, Chaplain,
5659 Genoa St., Oakland, Cal.
Richard George Moore, Sen. Deacon,
Arthur Howard Peterson, S. 1¥ard., Elbert Washington Garrity,!. Dea.,
Carl Christian Eien, Jun. Warden, James Garland Kane, Marshal,
Warren Guice Mobley, Treasurer, George Greyson Hansen, Stewcrrd,
Herbert Atherton Glines, Secretary, George Earl Chapman, Steward,
1450 Seventh Street, Oakland.
Homer W. Smay, Tyler.
Adams, Charles Henry
Adams, Claude Nichols
Adamson, Franklin Chris.
Adamson, Geo. Wm.
Albertson, Frederick
Aldrich, Hugh Shafter,
Alison, Archie
Allgewahr, August Eugene
Andresen, Harold Sophus
Anderson, Edward Jame11
!\.nderson, Frank William
Anderson, Wm.
Ansel, Jacob Carl
Aspen, Edward Johnson
A nstin, George William
Avan, William John

MEMBERS:
Baehrach, Henri Isaac
Baker, Alvin Walter
Baker, Henry Ma thews
Baker, James Bartlett
Barnes, Harry Clinton
Barnes, James Louis
Beaton, Frederick Charles
Blackwell, Robert John
Blackwell, Stanley .John
Blaese, Ernest Michael
Blaese, Fred 'k Jacob
Blanchard, Cyrus Edgar
Bock, George
Borchert, Henry Augustus
Bowles, Arthur Gordon
Boyee, Edwin Herbert

384

ROSTER

Boyle, Michael John
Bramstedt, William Christian
Braswell, Lewis Frank
Braun, Charles Julius
Braun, Philip Strohm
Bronstrup, Gustave Adolph
Bruce, John Howie R.
Bruhning, Emil Geo. H.
Bruml, Arthur Benedict
Buchanan, Alex.
Buckingham, George Albert
Bucknum, James Harvey
Burgess, Samuel William
Burlison, Thomas Nile
Buzzo, Benjamin Heywood
Buzzo, Joseph Thomas
Carden, James Heraud
Cardwell. James Martin
Cardwell, John Henry
Cardwell, Joseph William
Carlson, Oscar Rinhold
Carman, Charles Way
Carman, Frank Vanoy
Carpenter, George
Chapman, George Earl
Chase, Quincy Acastus
Christensen, Christ
Christensen, Robert
Classen, Albert
Climo, Samuel
Coates, William Henry
Cockburn, Wm. Alfred
Cogswell, John Benjamin
Cole, Murray Stanley
Coley, Vernon Jackson
Comstock, Herbert Mark
Cook, Milton Marcus
Cope, Harry Beisly
Col"Win, Lewis Thornton, P. M.
Cotton, George Douglas
Cozzens, Arthur Eugene
Crabb, Porter Voorhees
Crandley, William John
Crawford, Frank Reed
Crossman, Archie Kearn

Crossman, Edwin John
Crossman, John, P. M.
Crossman, Roy Everett
Crossman, William Thomas
Cummings, Lawrenc Wash.
Dailey, William Curtis
Dallerup, Benjamin
Davidson, James C.
Davidson, William
Davis, Charles Franklin
Davison, William Gardiner, P. M.
Deaner, Hiram Franklin
Demers, Lester Aime
Demooy, Frank
Dickerson, James Henry
Dickson, George
Deardorff, William Perry
Deckard, Stephen Anderson
Dieves, Charles Isaac
Dieves, Joseph August
Dodds, 'l'homas Garfield
Douglass, Frank Johnson
Dunsmore, William Gelchrist
Edmonds, Thomas
Edwards, Henry John
Edwards, Walter John
Eiben, Frederick Gerhard
Eien, Carl C.
Fairchild, Claude. Wilkins
Farrell, Sidney Herbert
Fay, Max Henry
Finely, Charles John Jasper
Fink, Samuel Herman
Fish, Frederick V.
Fogelstrom, Walter John H.
Foster, Sydney Hill
Fraser, John Eugene
Fraser, Neil
Gardner, David Thomas
Gardner, Hiram Smith
Garrity, Elbert Washington
Gemmell, Stewart Farwell
Gentis, William Ira
Gibson, Charles Luke
Gibson, Edward Franklin

ROSTER
Glines, Herbert Atherton, P. M.
Godbeer, William
Gonsalves, Louis
Gorham, William John
Graham, Robert Grant, P. M.
Graham, Edward Joseph
Gray, Frank Virgil
Gray, James
Green, Stanley
Greenlee, James William
Hadcock, Eugene Berrel
Hale, Louis Wm.
Hall, James
Hancock, John Henry
Hansen, Geo. Greyeon
Harrigan, John William
Harris, Theo. Howard
Havard, Richard Daniel
Heckell, William Frederic
Hewitt, Allan James
Hewitt, Lowen Gilford
Higuera, Ferdinand
Hudson, Wm. Henry
Hufschmidt, Alfred Frederick
Huggins, Henri Tyler, P. M.
Hughes, Arthur Dean
Hunter, William Alex., P. M.
Ingersoll, Clarence George
Isaacs, Alfred Solomon
Jackson, Oliver Mann
Jamieson, John Carlyle
Jansson, Fritz Paul
Jeffress, John Kennedy
Johnson, Frank, Jr.
Johnson, Wilhelm Magnus
Johnstone, Andrew Edward
Johnstone, John Crawford
Jones, Fred Thomas
Jones, Mathew Hines
Jordan, Earl ~ero;r.
Jorgensen, Johannes Christian
Kane, J as. Garland
Kattenberg, Albert Otto
Kelly, Edwin Forriest
25

Keyser, John Harold
Kieley, John Francis
Kirschbaum, Jene Peter L.
Kitto, William John
Kydd, Isaac Ferguson
Lagerson, Walter Henry
Lambourne, Arthur }'rederick
Lane, William
Lane, William Thomas
Lang, Frederick William
Langford, Thomas
Larson, Axel Emil
Lawry, William John, P. M.
Leslie, John Dawson
Lind, William Grareie
Long, Albert Vance
Long, William
Lowell, Frank
Lumsden, William Stephen
Lundin, August
Lutgen, George Vest
Lutgen, John Peter
Macdonald, Charles John
MacGregor, Henry Mortimer
Madison, Maurice Austin Henry
Magerstaedt, Gus Charles
Magerstadt, Paul Erwin
Mahan, James Claud
Mahony, William Henry
Mai<len, Frederick Bruce
Mangan, John Martin
Marcus, Geo. Peter
McComb, Edward
McDonald, Frank Jesse
McDonald, George Bruce
McGuffick, George Nelson
Mcintire, Austin Garfield
McKay, William
McKeen, Herman Scott
McKellar, Alexander
McKenzie, Joseph Henry
McLean, Edward John
McLeod, Angus Mar~in
McMillan, Wallace

385

386

ROSTER

ROSTER

McRae, John Herbert
Meade, Linley Merwin
Medros, Joseph J aeon
Meese, Henry Adolph, P. M.
Megraw, George Emery
Melvin, Jamee Garland
Meves, Bernhard, Sr.
Meves, Bernhard A., Jr.
Meyers, John Hart
Miller, Martin Mahlen
Mobley, Warren Guice, P. M.
Moffitt, Frank
Moon, Holly Francis
Moore, John Briggs
Moore, Richard Geo.
Moore, Robert H.
Mosbacher, George
Mueller, Ernest
Murehison, James Daniel
Murphy, Eugene Joseph
Murphy, James Joseph
Myers, William Everett
Myrick, John Brown
Neal, William Waterman, P. M.
Nedderman, Benjamin
Neilsen, Francis Joseph
Neilsen, Hans Frederick
Nicol, William Scott
Nissen, Julius Linnit
N1>r, Andrew Jorgensen
O'Brien, Thomas Edward
Oesch, Edward Dee
O'Neil, Peter J.
Owens, Eric Hjalmar
Parker, David Elmer
Partridge, Abram Peter
Pasquale, Edward Valentine
Paulsen, Ludwig Otto
Peacock, Alfred, P. M.
Pegg, Ernest Francis
Perkins, Eugene 8., P. M.
Peterson, Arthur Howard
Peterson, Peter Hansen
Peterson, Wm. Antone
Pett, David

Pollard, Homer
Pontious, Joseph Edwin
Porter, George Washington
Powell, George Garfield
Preslar, Henry Allan
Prince, Julius Theban
Pringle, James
Putzar, Edward Louis
Raphael, William Kinney
Redington, Charlee Henry, Jr.
Redington, Charles Henry, P. M.
Redington, Jo Peter
Reed, James Lon
Reed, Thomas
Reilinger, Edward Nathan
Renshaw, John George
Replogle, John Stout
Rerat, Albert Loui1
Rhein, William H.
Rieger, Albert Fred
Rittigatein, Frank Adolph
Rittigatein, Herman
Rivers, Paul Stuart
Robertson, Albert Atwater
Robertson, Robert
Rogers, Edward Almond
Ruley, Guy Fairfax
Runyon, Paul
Russell, William Hicks
Sanborn, William Kelly, P. M.
Sandelin, Charles Frederick
Sangster, Weston Darrell
Sartori, Augu1tino Paulo
Scheithe, Carl F.
Schiveley, Arthur Marion
l:'!chmidt, John
Schneider, HPnry Joseph
Schrock, William A.
Schumacher, August Peter
Schwarz, Henry, P. M.
Searles, Niles, Jr.; P. M.
Seller, John
Sheldon, William Wallace
l:'!iddorn, Edward
Siefer, Francis Michael

Simmons, Leland Stanford
Sjoberg, John Gustaf, P. M.
Skilling, Henry Hugh
Slaughter, Charles Matthew
Slaven, John Thompson
Smay, Homer W.
Smith, Andrew Perry
Smith, George Frederick
Smith, James OaHius, P. M.
Smith, Orville, Alex.
Snook, Charles Edward, P. M.
Soderstrand, Arthur Frank
Solomon, Isadore Edward
So=er, Charles Henry, P. M.
~....naen. Hans Frederick
Sorensen, Jesse Reinhold
:5tephens, Ira Oscar
Stephens, Samuel
Stephens, Thomas
Stenart, Carl Bruce
Stokes, Levi
Stromgren, George Albert
Stromgren, Gustave Adolph
Streuber, Arthur Carl
Suber, Timothy Brooks
l:'!venson, Fred John
Swanson, Albert
Swenson, Charles
Tait, Allen James
Tambe, Emil
Tambe, Hartnig Carsten
Tarr, Alvin Eugene
'fhackaberry, J,oftue Henry
Thomas, Charles Goodwin
Thomas, William John
Torrence, Henry George
Trigg, William Thomas
Undhjen, Ole

387

Van Buskirk, Longwill
Vandenbos, Jacques Leonard
Y erg, Mark Earl
Vetter, Nicholas
Walker, Thomas Rose
Walker, William Henry
Walters, Valentine
Ware, Francis Edgar
Warner, Chas. Sherman
Warness, Axel Christoffer
Warnesa, Paul Andrew
Weigt, William Albert
West, George Elmer
Weston, William Pomroy
White, Albert Frederick
White, Cornellius
White, Herman Shea
White, Jot1eph
Whitehead, Thomas
Williama, David W.
Wiley, Jasper Grant
Wilkes, Farrington
Wilkes, William Ernest
Willard, Charles Martin
Williams, Erneat Clement
Williama, Frank Delmore
Williams, John Jonee
Williams, Robert Richard
Wills, John Tyzzer
Wilson, Andrew John
Winthar, Thomas Ludwig
Wolf, Joseph
Wooley, Eliphat Burt, P. M.
Wrede, August Adolph
Wyllie, Robert Pedan
York, Albert Thomas
Young, Theodore Henry
Zeimer, Henry Kahn
-376

WITHDRAWN:
Westdahl, James Robert

388

ROSTER

SUSPENDED FOR NO.N-PA YMENT OF DUES:
McGrath, Augustus P.
Asher, Walter Gre~ham
MeKeen, Albert Atwater
Beek, John Henry
Nussbaum, August Otto
Hale, Harry Hubbard
Trombley, Henry
Harjes, William Edward
DIED:
Linster, Peter Edward
Barnett, Rufus Putnam
MeKellar, Harry Duncan
Douglass, James A.
St. Pierre, John
Johnstone, Robert
Watson, Warren Mortimer

LAUREL LODGE, No. 245.
Willows, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, third Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Byron Ottis Cobb, Chaplain,
R A. McNally, Senior Deacon,
William Watson, Junior Deacon,
C. L. Helena, Marshal,
E . C. Barnell, Steward,
H . 0 . Schnurbuscq, Jr., Steward,
John tlenry Zum~alt, Tyler.

Eustace Howard Rhodes, Master,
Willows, Cal.
Harry C. Bell, Senior Warden,
Malcolm A. Knock, Jun. Warden,
James M. Silvey, Treasurer,
Harvey E . Sparrow, Secretary,
Willows, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Cimpher, Edmund Drake
A' ery, Edward Emmet
Cobb, Byron Otis, P. M.
Bailey, John Amity
Oollins, Edwin De Roy
Barber, Henry Dwight
Cowart, Zachariah Taylor
Barham, Edwin
Crawford, Russell Tracy
Barrell, Edward Clifford
Dahlin, Frank Edward
Bartlett, Arthur Wayland
Danner, Jefferson Davis, P. :~r.
Belieu, William Thomas
Davis, Char1es Wilson
Bell, Harry C.
Davis, Joseph Addison
.oenoit, Lucien Maurice, P. :M.
Drew, Leland Stanford
Boyd, James
Drew, Napolian Bonepart
.Boyd, James, Jr.
Duncan, Addison Eugene
Bornsehein, Geo. Daniel_
Essex,
Gerald Knight
Brock, Malcom
Etter, Omer Rasor
Bungard, George
Eubank, Joseph C.
Oathard, Harry Floyd
Famham, Daniel Cromwell
Chaney, Samuel Marshall, P. :M.

ROSTER

389

Finch, William Morton, P. M.
Moody, Frank, P. M.
Flockhart, John
·
Moore, Harry
~·ox, Homer Hastings
Newman, Charle11
Freeman, Frank
Nordyke, Marion Augustus
Freeman, George Richard
Orr, George Wesley, P. M.
Freeman, William Valentine
l'age, Elmer Harvey
~'rench, Ourry Milton
Pirkey, Marion
Gardner, Jerome Teuksbury
Purkitt, Olaude Fouts
Garnett, Hugh McCune
Raper, Orville Lawrence
Garrison, Edwin Moore, P. :M.
Raulins, Frank
Graves. Fremont Ashurst
Rhodes, Howard Eustace
Graves, John Hiram, P. M. ·
Robison, Enos Cordell
Gutman, Gustave Arthur
Rossi, Nicholas Louis
Hatcher, George Jackson
Rudolph, William
Helena, Oecil Louis
Schofield, Frank Crane
Hirsch, Otto Nathan
Scott, William Winfield, P. M.
Hoehheimer, Ira
Silvey, James Madison
Jensen, Peter
Smith, William Augustus
Klemmer, Lenus Jacob
Snowden, James William
Kline, Ben George
Snowden, Raymond Leslie
Knock, Bayard
Sparrow, Harvey Edward C.
Knock, Malcolm A.
Speier, Leon
Knock, Thomas
Squier, Elisa Gibbs
Knock, Thomas L.
Squier, Hemen Gray, P. M.
Lathrop, Charles John, P. M.
Stewart, Francis Davis
Levy, Ellis J.
Stiles, Clarence L.
Linderoot, August John
Stiles, Luther Clarence
Lindstrom, Albert Stewart
Talcott, Frederick William
'l'erry, John Rollen
Markewitz, Milton
Marty, Amos Roy
Tucker, David Clark
Watson, William
Mccutcheon, Flouris Ervin
West, Hiram Leroy
McDaniel, Joseph Elijah
Williams, Frank Wesley
McRae, Alex.
Wylie, Hartsen Delmer
Merrill, William Reed
Miller, Carroll Charles
Wylie, .John Elsworth
Zumwalt, .John Henry
Mitchell, .Tames Henry
. Zumwait, William Raymond
Montgomery, Elmer Frank
-106
WITHDRAWN:
Cardiff, George Henry
Tyler, Elias Mortimer
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Harvell, James Ephram
Wickes, Lew Ernest
Randolph, James Andrew
Winkler, James Jackson
DIED:
Black, Robert Lee
Crawford, Frederick Gustavus
Miller, Isaac

390

ROSTER

POMONA LODGE, No. 246.
Pomona, Loa Angeles County.
Stated Meeti.Dgs, first Tuesday in each m~nth.
OFFICERS:

Frederick Rice Lewis, Master,
Pomona, Cal.
Albert J. Close, Set1ior Wartlen,
James Wolstencroft, /Mti,, Ward.,
Charles Micah Stone, Treamrer,
Charles Palmer Rowe, Secretary,
134 S. Thomas St., Pomona, Cal.

Andrew AleMnder Walker, Ch.aplain,
Louis Elmer Sheets, SeKwr DttJCOIC,
Stacey Wendell Clapp, ltm. Deacon,
Earl Ferdenda11. MarsltaJ
Benjamin Chaffey Shepherd, Steward, ·
Anson Case Thomas, Steward,
Feridron Baker, Tyler,

MEMBERS:
Carothers, Wm. Wallace
Acres, Arthur Warrea
Caves, Chiever Clark
Anderson, Henry Clay
Anaerson, Jam.es Blane
Charles, Fred Henly
Avis, Americus Benizetti
Chauncey, William James
Ashton, Palmer
Clark, Charles
Clark, Charles Ralph
Avery, Albert Sinclair, P. lllI.
Babcock, William Washington
Clark, Lloyd, Richard
Baker, Charles David
Clapp, Stacey Wendell
Baker, Foedoon D.
Close, Albert J •.
Close, Joseph Androus
Baldwin, Frank Henry
Barnes, Sardis B.
Cobb, George Woodworth
Cohn, Nathan
Barnum, Herbert Warren
Baynham, Frank Leslie
Cowdery, George Willie
Cowles, Lyman Warner
Beck, Clarence
Craig, Gavin
Bell, James Edison
Cramore, William Theo.
Bouquet, Edwin Clarence
Bowen, Charles Oscar '
Crookshank, David Crane
Crawford, Thomas Travis
Bowen, John F.
Bowman, Jonathan Veach, P. M.
Davi11, Raymond Milton
Boyd, Leonard H.
Delawie, Fred Ely
Boyd, Sydney Easley
Dennis, Arthur Edward
Boyd, Sydney Robert
Dickie, William
Boyes, George
Diller, Herman
Dole, Arthur Macdonald
Brown, Frederick Alfred
Brown, William Elliott
Dorsey, Kewen Hilliard
Bryant, Leslie George
Doughty, Charles Homer
Burke, Allen Willard
Douglass, Ernest
Caldwell, Andrew Beeton
Dowling, Thom.a s Jackson
Campbell, Melvin
Dreher, Peter John

ROSTER
Dye, John Hiram
Edwards, George
Eells, George Nelson
Elder, Noble Smith
Esteph, Will C.
Feathers, .Benjamin F.
Fich, Bertram
Fitch, Joseph Ahira
Fite, Earl Engene
Ford, Elmer R.
Ford, Frank Warner
Ford, Seldom Irving
Fox, Charles Jamee
Fox, Charles Kirby
Frankel, Samuel
Frederick, Wilson David
Friedman, Herman
Fritsch, Otto Loren
Gallup, John Adam, P. lllI.
Garcelon, Frank, P, M.
Gates, Clyde A.
Gilbert, Samuel L.
Graham, Fred Eugene
Graf, Robert Edward
Grant, Ramond A.
Gray, William Allen
Ground, George Arda
Guerin, Clarence Walter
Gumprecht, C. Ma!!!:
Hall, George A.
Haneler, Frank Ernest
H aneen, Hane Broderson
Harkins, Walter Vietor
Harris, Charles McPherson
Harrie, John Gilbert
Harrison, Frank E.
Haskin, Lorenzo Hix
Hayes, Calvin Campbell W.
Hefti, Rudolph
Henderson, Edward
Hennessy,. William John
Hibbard, Clinton Whitney
Hibbard, Ethan Allen
Hicklin, Edward
Hill, Ramond Chalmers

Hillen, Josepll Henry
Hinman, Elliott
Hoft'master, Edgar Joseph Lemp
Hoover, William Scott
Houdyshel, Cecil Ernest
Howell, William Harvy
Huft', Charles Clar~
Hunter, Arthur Daniel
Hyatt, Frank Henry
Jackson, Arthur Buxton
Jess, Stoddard
Johnson, Frank Walter
Joos, John William
Jones, Floyd M.
Kelly, Elmer Ellsworth
Kennedy, William A.
Kerckho11', Hermann Henry
Kessler, William
Kinney, Harry Hartman
Kitchen, Edwin Bruce
Knox, Reginaid Ligenbager
Kreitner, Fred Adam
Lane, Walter Loren
Lattin, Wllliam Martin
Leake, Norman Augustus
Lenk, Theodore Edwin
Leslie, William
Lewis, Frederick Rice
Lewis, Walter Atwood, P. M.
Loney, James
Ludden, Colline Adelbert
Ludden, Hugh Courtney
Ludden, Jerome A., P. M.
Ludden, Maurice Eugene
Lund, Asa Solyman
Lyon, Will Bartley
Martin, Frederic
Martin, Frederick Herbert
Martin, Wil1iam Thomas, P. M.
Mathews, Lee Rex
MeCollum, John Timon
McCormick, W1lliam Arthur
McGowan, James Edwin
Mecham, Edwin Warren
Merriam, Amos Johnson

391

39Jl

ROSTER

Merrill, George Whitney
Metz, Michael Kar
Midgley, Wilmot Wentworth
Millikin, Thomas Draper
Minier, Dee Waite
Mishler, Ralph Thomas
Moles, Samuel David
.Monahan, John William
Moon, Thomas James
Morris, Noah
Morrison, Edward Hugh
Mosher, George Erastus
Mouser, Melvin Alex
Mumford, Ira Edgar Leroy
.Murkett, Herbert Edgar
Myers, Milton Armsted
Nichols, Allen Penfield, P. M.
Nichols, Hervey James
Niedermeyer, Frederick William
Noble, Bert
Noble, Robert James
Olcott, Shepard Pond
Orr, Robert Hall
Palmer, Frederick Belcher
Paul, Charles Wesley
Peck, George Washington
Persons, Richard Sandford
Pirdy, Adelbert James
Perry, Mulford
Phelps, Charles Austin
Phillips, George Stephen
Phillips, William Riley, P. M.
Pierce, Charles Sumner
Pinnola, Louis
Pleckner, Arthur Daniel
Porter, David · Camilon Webster
Poston, William Herbert
Potter, Mark Hugunin
Powers, Sehon Wadsworth
Priestley, Charles Ward
Rampton, Charles Henry
Reed, Alfred Cummings
Reed, Alfred Riley
Reynolds, Henry Presley
Rice, Bruce Arthur

Rice, Charles Earl
Rice, George Heber
Rice, Newton James
Rickerich, William Henry
Rickett, Ario Edward
Robinson, Edmund Clark
Robinson, ]'rank Clark
Robinson, George Prentiss
Roberds, Charles Harrison
Rose, Willard Roscoe
Roupetz, Perry Edward
Rowe, Chas. P.
Russell, Harry. Edison
Saltonstall, William Matthew
Sanks, Henry Miller
Sanders, Thomas Gregory
Schutze, Leonard Paul
Seaver, Carlton, P. M.
Seaver, Frank Roger
Sheets, Henry Lee
Sheets, Louis Elmer
Shepherd, Benjamin Chaffey
Short, Cecil Hackney
Siddell, William Allen
Silvey, George
Sleeper, Edward Howard
Sleeper, William Henry
Smith, William Daniel
Snow, Albert Flavpl, P. M.
Spears, Claude C.
Spicer, Charles
Stabler, Ira M.
Staig, Arthur Davis
Steadman, Charles Arthur
Ste:lfa, George Addison
Stephenson, Bert E.
StevenBOn, Ira
. Stiles, .Maurice
Stiles, William Henry
Stone, Charles Micah
Stormer, William Ernest
Swiler, Elroy Russel
Swindt, Joseph Keener
Tanner, Walter
Taylor, Robert Nesbit

ROSTER
Teague, Walter
Thatcher, Hugh Arlington
Thomas, Anson Case
Tismerat, Zacharie
Todd, Walter Brewster
Toland, Clarence Gains
Truitt, William Henry, Jr.
Turner, George Madison
Twomey, Samuel Parks
Tyson, Marion
Vandegrift, William Alfred, P. M.
Walker, Charles Edwin
Wallace, John Meredith
Ward, Wendell William
Ware, Edward Septimus
Waterman, George Augustus
Walcott, Herbert Edwin
Weigle, August Matthew
Weigle, Charles Fred
Welch, Everett Haskell, P. M.
Wentworth, Clyde Samuel
Bacon, Fred A.
Brown, Rae
Dreher, Edwin Ludwig
Fosdick, Clarence Watson
Geer, Francis Herman
Goodchap, Louis Pierce
Jencks, George
Johnson, James Dixon

Werner, Clarence Oliver
White, Edwin Plimpton
White, Jay John
Whitehouse, Frank Edward
Widdes; Robert 'James
Wildman, William
Wilkinson, Henry Patterson
Wilkinson, James Henry, P. M.
Williams, Neiles Herman
Wilson, Charles Patton
Wilton, Edwin, P. M.
Witman, Alex. Hamilton
Witman, AleL Hamilton, Jr.
W olstencroft, James
Wood, Uriah Smith
Woolery, Joseph Milton
Woy, Charles W.
Wright, Charles Digby
Wright, John Kennelly
Young, Victor Russell
-279

WITHDRAWN:
Park, Herman Earl
Richards, Addison Whitaker
Shoemaker, Jesse Ralph
Staples, Robert Martin
Shutts, Fred Ordway
*Thatcher, Horace Charles
Thomas, Frank Webster
Wheeler, Frank
Williams, Noah

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hunter, Arthur Daniel

Douglass, Joseph
Hutchings, Charles Richard

DIED:
Molyneaux, Francis Asbury
Sanborn, Arthur Newton
Whyte, John

•Degrees conferred during the year.

393

394

ROSTER

FRESNO LODGE, No. 247.
FreeDO, !'resno County.
. Stated Meetings, Friday of or next precediag Full Koon.
OFFICERS:
William John Harris, Master,
Thomas Jeffe.-son Hammond, Cha;.,
Sequoia Hotel.
William Ellsworth Toms, Sen. Deac.,
George Washington Turner, S. W ., Andres Bang, Junior Deaco",
Carl Augustus Lisenby, Jun. Ward., Ben Randall Walker, Marshal,
Leopold Gundelfinger, r,.eas•rer,
George Peter Salm, Steward,
Joseph Lyman Beall, Secretary,
Harry Sheville Foster, Stn.wrd,
2108 Tuolumne St.
Walter Whitney, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aarestrup, Theo.
Boles, George Karion
Adams, Charles Lin,oln.
Bowdish, Pereivai
Alexander, Walter Edwin
Bowie, Albert
Allen, Axel
Bramblett, James Mitchell
Allum, LeRoy Martin
Brooks, Albert Preston
Anderson, Frank William
Brooks, William Washington
Anderson, Gus Walter
Bullock, Edward
Anderson, James
Burk, John T.
Anderson, Joseph Green.
Burke, Fred Miller
Appley, Judson
Burks, Floyd Launcelot Rowell
Ashman, Stonewall Jackson
Burks, William Tillman
Bachant, David Lewis
Burleigh, Charles Morrell
Baldwin, John West
Burnham, Floyd
Bang, Anders
Burness, Hector
Barham, Courtney L.
Bussey, Wade Hampton
Barhydt, Clarence A.
Butler, Alban Bernard
Barker, Charles Willis
Byrd, Charles H.
Barnwell, David Monroe
Cardwell, Bert
Barrett, Charles William, P. M.
Cate, James Wilbur
Bates, Dudley Urias ·
Cathcart, Benjamin Franklin
Beall, Joseph Layman, P. M.
Chalup, Charles Martin
Beals, Charles Clinton
Chamberlain, Franklin Homer
Belfils, Ernest Kreiehbaum
Chambers, Jam es Aynsley
Benas, Isaac
Christopher, Gus
Benas, Morris
Church, George Emory, P. M.
Berry, Tom Jones
Coddington, Oliver Clinton
Beveridge, George Paxton
Coffman, John W.
Bibbero, Sam
Collins, James Darwin
Bodwell, Samuel Procter
Colson, Benjamin Young

ROSTER
Connelly, Frank Heney
Cooley, Menzo Wesley
Cornforth, Charlea Heney
Cosgrave, George, P. K.
Cronkite, Bert E.
Crissman, Joseph E.
Cunningham, Joe Williams
Cutten, Charles Robert
Davison, William
Deal, John Harmer Smith
Dellman, Eriis1t
Dennett, William Bibb
Dressen, John Christopher
Detoy, Charle1 L.
Doyle, Ollein Burton
Dunn, Tom Montana
Dunn, William Francia
Eberhart, Clyde George
Eckland, Charles Maurice
Edgecomb, Clarence Albert
Edwards, Clarence William, P. M.
Edwards, Edward Darnell, P. M.
Egan, James Henry
Einstein, Berton
Elliott, George
Emmons, Irving W.
Enloe, Henry Enoch
Errett, Henry Fred
Evans, Harry Elmer
Ewing, David Shelby
Foster, Harry Sbeville
Fry, Edwin Claude
Gardner, William Clifton
Gilbert, Julius Lanrdo11.
Goddard, Henry Albert
Goggin, Richard DeLaey
Goldstein, Alex.
Goodman, Solomon Bearline
Graff, Hans, P. M.
·
Gray, Lee Lincoln
Grunig, Charles
Gundelfinger, Emil
Gundelfinger, Leopold
Hague, Benjamin Murrell
Hague, Berry Madison, Jr., P. M.

395

Hall, Roy
Hammond, Tll11mas .Jelfel'l!on, P. M.
Hanner, John William
Hansell, .Maurice Bartlett
Hanson, William George
Harris, Milus King
Harris, Rollin Bom11ey
Harris, Walter
Harris, William John
Harrold, Thomas Richard
Hart, Alvin Cllnan
Hart, Leon
Hatfield, George Audersoo
Hays, Oliver Thomas
Heiskell, William K.
Henry, John Sunuet
Henton, David Cole
Herrington, Herbert Marion
Higgins, Frank
Hinch, William Sproule
Hinds, Herman Jacob
Hinsberger, Jaeob
Hogue, Lassen Elwin
Hogue, Samuel Lassen
Holland, William BiBmark
Hollenbeck, James H.
Homan, Frank Andrew
Hopkim, Ethan Littler
Hughes, Thomas. Edwin
Hutchinson, Charles Caswell
Ingram, Charles Henry
Inns, Ernest Frank
Jansen, Alexander Sejfllrd
Johnson, Goorge L.
.Johnson, Ramus Bartholomew
Johnson, Samuel Walter
Johnson, William Mallory
Johnston, Harry Mumford
.Tones, Edward
Jones, George Wallace
Jorgenson, Niel
Kafton, Alexander Raymond
Kerney, Aden G.
Kieldsen, James Nelsou
Kirkman, William T homas

396
Kittrell, Erroll Clyde
Kittrell, William Joseph
Klindera, George Wm.
Lang, James Albert
Lamkin, J. S.
Leplat, Gustave
Levy, Herbert, P. M.
Levy, Herman, P. M.
Levy, Leon
Levy, Sigmund
Lisenby, Carl Augustus
Longacre, John Richard
Lowe, Camille Denton
Lurie, Harry
Lyman, Frank
Lynch, Thomas Halpin
Lynch, William
Machen, William Wallace
Manheim, Emil Edward
Manheim, Gustave Adolph
Madsen, Theo.
Manuel, Louis
Marks, Christopher D.
Marks, George
Marshall, Hampton Othello
Marshall, William Carey
Martin, Samuel
Mattingly, John Andrew, P. M.
Maupin, James Lawrence
May, Francis John
May, Richard Elwin
McDonald, James Bruce
McHugh, Matthias P.
McKinnon, Elbert Dwight
McKittrick, Arthur William
Meindoo, Ivan Carter
MeLane, Charles Lowry, P. M.
Mead, Jesse Rector
Mellen, Thomas Eugene
Metzler, Brenton Jarvis
Miller, Charle11 Herman
Mitchll)l, Dean Clark
Mitchell, Fred
Mitchell, Jnmes Btephe!IJI
Monroe, George Hays, P. M.

ROSTER
Moorhead, Edmond Second
"Morris, Henry
Muldary, Richard Morgan
Mulholland, Robert Smith
Murray, John William
Musselman, Albert E.
Myer, Isaac
·
Neal, John
Neal, John Wesley
Neeley, Herbert Wm.
Nobles, Charles Newton
North, John Wilson
Obbath, Izso
Olney, Albert Downing
Olney, Albert Clyde
Olufs, Oluf Bernard
0 'Neal, Charles'
Packwood, Leland Raymond
Palen, Byon Carlysle
Palmer, Arthur Henry Gordon
Pasch, Robert
Patch, George
Payne, Le Roy
Peachman, Ferdinand
Peterson, Christian
Peterson, Nathaniel Houston
Peterson, William Harrison
Pollard, Oliver Lee
Porter, William T.
Potter, Craig H~nry
Poulsen, Thomas Hansen
Powell, Arthur L.
Pugh, John M., P. M.
Puleston, William Henry
Radin, Henry
Radley, Thomas Henry
Ralston, Rupert Robert
Redden, Silas ;Henry
Reborn, Frank
Reno, Frederick Rensselaer
Reynolds, Harry W.
Rhodes, Johnson Guy
Riege, Charles Henry
Bobbe, David Harry
Robinson, Amos

ROSTER

397

Robinson, William Harrison Jackson Swartz, Alexander Culberson
Sweeney, Albert Hamlet
Rogers, Harry Louis
RoeBBler, Frederic Martin
Taylor, George Colvin
Ross, John Henry
Taylor, James
Rudy, Henry Vernon
'l'aylor, Leroy
Sahm, Henry
Taylor, Paul Chester
Salm, George Peter
Tegeler, Frederick William
Bamelson, Samuel Joseph
Teilman, Ingvart Hohn
Samuel, Lawrence .
Thomas, Montgomery
Schmidt, Carl Wilhelm
Thompson, Oliver McGrady
Seadler, James
Thorwaldson, Horace
Selling, Christian Hansen
Tombs, Samuel Bell, P. M.
Sewell, Walter John
· Toms, William Elsworth
Shannon, Albert Sidney J.
Trowbridge, Dwight Howe
Shapero, Joseph
Tunzi, Norberto
Sherman, Walter Nathan
Turner, George Washington
Shields, Adolphus James
Vanderlip, Frederic Douglas
Shoemaker, Walter
Van Meter, Edgar Snowden
Shoobert, Charles Warren B.
Wade, Lincoln
Short, Frank Hamilton
Walker, Ben Randall, P. M.
Walker, John Robert
Simpson, Timothy William
Sloan, William Burtis
Warner, Albert Owen
Smith, Anson Burlingame, P. M.
Warrington, Thomas Henry
Smith, Ardie Lee, P. M.
Watkins, Joseph Spinney
Smith, Christine Hansen
Webster, Edwin Erwin
Sm~th, Eugene Robinette
Webster, James Alfred
Sm~th, Gary Reuben
Wells, George John
Sm~th, George Spencer
Whepley, William Lang
Sm~th, Geo~ge W.ashington
Whitlow, Vietor Le Roy
Sm~th, Leshe Smiley
Whitney, Walter
Smith, Vietor Raymond
Whitney, William Joel
Snow, Alva Edson
Wilkinson, Herbert Edwin
Snyder, Edwin Reagan
Willis, Glenn Trowbridge
Solomon, Louis
Winne, Douglas Thomas
Sprouse, Jasper Newton
Wilson Charles William
Stallings, Rosco
Wilson: James William
Stephens, Lewis Oliver, P. M.
Wolcott, Edwin T.
Stuart, Richard I., P. M.
Woodward, Oscar J.
Stone, Benjamin Franklin
Wrightson, John Mowell
Story, Walter Fulmer
Zibbell, James W.
Sutter, William Henry
Zener, Stephen Olin

-319

R08TER

ROSTER

398

Collins, Alfred Scott
Kohler, George Mathias

Wl'fHDRAWN:
Lane, William Samuel
*Leavy, Archibald William
MeClurg, James A.

SUSPENDED lt'OR NON-PAYMEN'I' OF DUES:
Hanson, Harvey Stickney

Dunn, Thomas
Hixson, Joseph Foster
Hoffman, Allen F.

DIED:
Jones, Osgood Knox
Lynn, Theodore Ayres
Stone, Marcus Aiken Vietor

•Degrees conferred during the year.

Huffman, Fred Harmon
Hunter, Thomas Percival
Ingraham, Arthur Lovell
Jackson, Clilford Norris
Keene, William Lott
King, Albert A vis
Knowlton, Benjamin Franklin
Laird, James Ralph
Laird, Reuel Alfred, P. M.
Lauer, Benjamin
Lauer, Isaac
Lauer, Marx
Lauer, Arthur
McDowell, Luther Grant, P. M.
Methvin, Dorr
Morgan, Charles Poe
Ogle, Elvin Fulton
Oliver, Charles Martin
.Owens, John Franklin

ALTURAS I,ODGE, No. :.;i48.

WITHDRAWN:

Altuns, Modoc CountJ'.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Pepperdine, Silas Wuhillfltoll
Pineo, Austin Webster
Raehford, Christopher Edwin
Rachford, Joha Charles, P. l!rl.
Raker, John Edward
Reid, David
Russill, Richard Madison
Salisbury, William A., F. M.
l:'!mith, Alex. Elsie
Smith, Artogrel Cisero
Spargur, Charles Good"lu
Spicer, Albert Fulmer
Stewart, Joseph Benty
Stile, John
Tamblinc, Robert Allan
Warner, Charles Sloan
Watkins, Charles Thomas
Williams,' William Claude
Yates, Luke Robinson

Rice, David Lorenzo

McDonald, Harry A.

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

0

MEMBERS:
Ahl, William Wilson
Boudreau, Adolphus Conrad
Brasher, Robert Williama
Althof, Lansing W.
Armstrong, William Evans, P. 1111. Brown, Charles Lee, P. M.
Bush, Elmer Ellsworth
Baldwin, Charles Sherman, P. M.
Caddel, Elijah Daniel
Ballard, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Caldwell, J<]verett Emmett
Ballard, James Thornhill
Caldwell, John Vincent
Ballard, John Randal
Ha.Hard, Loran
Collier, James J.
Cannon, John Peytgn
Ballard, Simeon Theo., P. M.
Coppedge, Walter Edwin
Ballard, Thorn Hill
Ballard, William Glen
Cozzens, William Lloyd
Denson, Thomas L., P. M.
Barker, Harry Earl
Duke, Geo. A.
Baty, Samuel E.
Fleming, Henry Albert
Bayley, Alden Spooner
Gaustad, Rasmus Oliver
Bonner, Ernest Chappell, P. M.
Harrow, Jefferson Fey
Bonner, John Todd, P. M.

ADIN LODGE, No.

250.

Adin, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, Second Saturday in eat'h month.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Philip Thomas
Childa, Benjamin Neeley
Ball, Edward Porteus
Clark, J ame11 Albert
Braden, Lincoln
Clark, Richard Biddle, P. 1111.
Blaske, Morri1
Conley, Robert Henry
Brown, Charles Monroe
Craven, Walter Sidney
Brown, Claude Raymond, P. M.
Folsom, Ernest Gilman
Brown, ClJ'de Earl
Ford, Emery Walter
Brown, Homer LeBoy
Fruits, John Sebastian, P. l!rl.
Chase, Buffington Albert
Fulcher, Clinton Joaeph

-70

400

ROSTER

Geisendorfer, Henry Albert
Graham, John Dexter
Groves, Elsley Wiman
Harrell, James Porter Grove
Henderson, Paul Douglas, P. M.
Holl, James Hartwell
Kesselring, Francis M.
Knight, George Horace, P. M.
Kresge, George Amador
Leventon, Hiram Lavern
Leventon, Robert Edward
Lorenzen, Peter
McArthur, Rodrick
McArthur, Scott
Packwood, Warren Dale, P. M.

Parrish, Frank Pierce
Philliber, Byron Waldon
Pickard, Edwin Stanton, P. M.
Preston, Edmund Benjamin Geo. T.
Rice, Ralph Raymond
Rice, Thomas Jefferson
Roberts, Fred H.
Sheppard, Summerfield Dean
Squires, Andrew Jackson, Jr.
Tinsman, Charles Mathias
Tocher, William
Traugh, Arthur Mathias, P. M.
Walker, George Roseberry, P. M.
Wilson, Ezra Morton, P. M.
Wilson, 'l'homas Walter
· --48

ROSTER
Reading, Alfred Gould, P. M.
Reading, George McLellan
Reading, William Francis
Schweiger, Francis Paul
Sturgeon, Andrew Graham

401

Sturgeon, John Henry
Thompson, William Henry, P. M,
Turley, William
Weitfle, Joseph King
--42

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT
McAlpin, John

OF

DUES:

DIED:
Hawks, Jam.es A.

LANDMARK LODGE, No. 253.
Madison, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

BODIE LODGE, No. 252.
Bodie, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Kieffer, Jacob
Bawden, John Curtiss
Kiekel, Frederick Charles
Boone, Harvey Hayden, P. M.
Boyd, Nathaniel W., P. M.
:J:.anders, William Herbert
Burkham, Cecil Bertrand
Langrell, Joseph Mitchell
McCaghran, Hugh, P. M.
Cain, James Stewart
Chatfield, William Nathan
McKenzie, John Johnson
Montrose, Clarence Lovell
Corde, Francis Joseph
Crawford, William Jordan, P. M.
Morandi, Gregory
Parr, Edward William
Davidson, Hugh Robinson
Davis, Thomas Lewellyn
Parr, John Forest
.
Fitzpatrick, George Kenny, P. M.
Pierce, Richard Thomas
l>o'or. Jobn
Graham, Archie
Ouinville. Ji'Tank Eamund, P. M.
Heath, Warwick Ptomy
Quinville, John Edmund, P. M.
Jackson, Frederick Elof
Quinville, William James
.Teffery, John
Kelly, John Nelson
Randolph, Franklin M.

Georg~ Rogers Hurlbut, Master,
J ames Christopher Gose, Chaplain,
Madison, C~I.
William Woods Adams, Se11. Dcac.,
George Washington Gray, S . Ward., Sidney Layfette Murray, Ju 11• Dcac.,
George Thomas Crone, Jun. Ward., Ernest Christian Bauer Marshal
Fra~cis Mario~. Strickland, Treas., Arthur Scott, Steward, '
,
LoUis ~fannst1enl, S ecretary,
George Bourland, Steward,
Madison, Cal.
William Joseph Gray, T)•ler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, David Quincy
J<'reese, Clifford Bickford
Adams, George Dixon
Galvin, Harry Albert
Adams, Wm. Woods
Galvin, Henry
Archer, Edward Hatton
Grim, William Everett
Barker, Isaac Simpson
Gose, James Christopher
Bauer, Ernest Christian, P. M.
Gray, George Washington
Brock, Thomas Hall
Grey, WilliRm Joseph
Bourland, George
Haines, Henry
Craig, John Milton
Hall, Thomas, P. M.
Craig, Thornton
Hurlbut, George Rogers, P. M.
Cole, Francis
Johnson, Henry Boneparte
Crone, George Thomas
Kennedy, John, P. M.
Davisson, Benj. Franklin, Jr.
Levy, Ellis Louis
Eckhardt, Carl Alex.
Levy, Wolf
Fletcher, Edward Reubin
Murray, 8idney Layfette
Fredericks, Harry Lawrence
Nieman, Robert Lee
Fredericks, John George, P. M.
Pfannstiehl, Louis
26

ROSTER

ROSTER

402

Schoeller, Edward John
Schoeller, Wm. Frederick
Scoggins, Clarence Noah
Scott, Arthur
Silberstein, Charles A. A.

Stephens, John Lucas
Stephens, Wm. Fulton
Strickland, Francis Marion, P. M.
Tandy, George Washington
DIED:
Tandy, George

READING LODGE, No. 254.
Redding, Shasta. County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFl'IOERS:

Benjamin Franklin Saylor, Master, Orr M. Chenoweth, Senior Dcacun,
c1
Elson Wright Harvey, !1111. Deacon,
.
d
Re dd mg, a.
Harry Edgar Thompson, Sell. Ward., Louis Breslauer, Ste-war ,
Cephus Lewis Gregg, Ju11. u'hrd., Harry Donnelly, Steward,
Arthur Mason Dean, Treas11rer,
Francis X. LaBonte, Tyler.
Charles Eugene Brown, Secertary,
Redding, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Cockeroft, Frank Nuttal
Ash, Vaughan William
Collins, Richard Emmet
Ashcraft, Aldis Isaac, P. M.
Comstock, James Warren
Baer, Munroe
Corbiere, Charles Colfax, P. M.
Bainbridge, Eugene Blackburn
Crews, Philip Paton
Bishop, Herbert Hall
Dean, Arthur Mason, P. M.
Blodgett, William Ora, P. M.
Dean, George Edward
Brackins, Samuel Elbert
DeLashmutt, George Wiley
Braun, Charles Alex.
Depue, Carl Harmon
Breslauer, Louis
Dittmar, Carl Frederick
Bretherton, Wallace Bruno
Dobrowsky, Frank Rercl
Brincard, James Elroy
Donley, Charles Edwin
.tSrown, Andrew Eugene
Donley, William Albert
Brown, Charles Eugene, P. M.
Downing, Isaac Hayden
Brown, Frank Leroy
Dozier, Earnest
Brown, Henry Warren
Dustin, Fred Fay
Brown. Robert Anthony
Eaton, Byron Gilbert
Bush, .George William, P. M.
Eaton, James Parley
Bush, Harry Edward
Rgilbert, William Alfred D.
CRreon, George Campbell
Fisher, Fabian
Chenoweth, Orr M.

Fitzgerald, McCoy
Fr9Zer, Hiram Hardy
Gavey, Walter
Glaszer, James Joseph
Glaszer, Peter
Glover, Harry Ward
Gregg, Cephus Lewis
Grodin, Irvin Morris
Hamilton, James Brodie, P. M.
Hampton, Delano Wash.
Hampton, Floyd Young
Hansen, James Dudley
Harvey, Elson Wright
Hays, James Calvin
Hill, Henry Gladstone, P. M.
Hill, William Glover
Hoffmaster, Charles Augustus
Holt, James Chesley
Houston, Thomas James
Hunter, Joseph Hammond
Herron, Mathew Wilkes
Hudson, William Atherton
Iverson, William Christopher
Jacobson, Charles
Jeffrey, William
Jewett, George Parish
Johnson, Israel Joseph, P. M.
Kaveney, John
La Bonte, Francis Xavier
Lambson, Giles Hammon
Lawry, Olin Joseph
Ledgerwood, LeRoy
Lefebvre, Joseph Jalma
Lorenzen, Lewis Norman
Lowdon, George Brownlee
Lowdon, John Richard, P. M.
Marshall, Amos Hiram
Maxwell, Fred Brooks
McCarty, John LaFayette
McCool, Elmer Francis
McDonald, Luke
McNabb, William
McVay, Anson Bidwell
Merrill, Abbott
Milburn, Warren Palmer

403

Moody, He;bert Lyle
Murray1 George James
Nichols, John Frank
Nie<lecker, Charles Edward
Nordyke, Byron Abram, P. M.
Nordyke, Felix Lysander
Nourse, Charles Freeman
Orr, John Brown
Parker, Ben Banes
Pehrson, Alfred Ferdinand
Petch, Llewellyn George
Plymire, Fred A.
Ponder, Wilson Churchill, P. M.
Potts, William Lambert
Rathbun, Donald W. .
Rathbun, Louis Brooks
Reading, Robert Lee
Reid, Daniel Gerrard
Reynolds, John Edward
Rhom, J. Thornton
Ross, John
Rutherford, John, Jr.
Saeltzer, Dudley Vietor
Saeltzer, Rudolph Andrew, P. M.
Saeltzer, Rudolph Moritz
Sallee, Harvey James
Sanders, Edward
Sandholdt, John Peter
Sandry, Samuel
Saylor, Benjamin Franklin
Schoonover, James William
Sechrist, George Howard, P. M.
Shuffleton, Hugh Hall, Jr.
Smith, Clyde Wade
Smith, Richard Sidney
Smith, Samuel Gaston, P. M.
Smith, Thomas Burton, P. M .
Smithson, James Stanton
Soderstron, Francis Herald
Southern, Elzy Thomas
Souza, Antonio Furtado, Jr., P. M.
Stable, Ferdinand
Stillson, Leonard Legrand
Stokes, Robert Thomas
Sutliff, Horace Aram

ROSTER

404
Stone, Sidney Marvin
Swasey, Frank Marshall, P. M.
Swedberg, Eric
Tucker, Arthur Henry
Tillotson, Willard Denton
Thomas, Morgan David
Thompson, Charles Francis
Todd, Elmer E.
Van Valer, Claude Oscar
Walker, Albert Edward
Wallace, Philip Bowers
Weber, Philip Henry

ROSTER

Wells, Harry
Wheeler, William Walter
White, Sherman Tecumshe
Wilder, Charles Thornton
Wilson, Alva A.
Witherow, John
Witherow, William Hellery
Woll, Joseph
Wood, William Augustus
Wright, James Dow
Zwiebel, Charles, P. M.

MEMBERS:

-153

WITHDRAWN:
Rankin, William Pierce

*Martin, John Jeffery

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hoyle, James Hansen
Kite, Walter Allen
Rote, .James Albert

Bedford, Homer Peter
Campbell, William Mott

EXPELLED:
Thompson, Harry Herman

Primm, FHnklin P ierce

DIED:
Seed, Alfred

Dennis, Leslie Mosley

405

•Restored during the year.

WELCOME LODGE, No. 255.
Lemoore, Kings County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

• Marcus C. Carter, Master,
Albert Luther McKay, Sen. Deac.,
Lemoore, Cal.
Lynn Lee Fox, Jun. Deacon,
Edward Herbert E. Byron, S. Ward., J ohn Henry Siegfried, Marshal,
Walter Clarence Payne, Jun. Ward., Willard Merril Wilson, Steward,
Richard Edward Shaw, Treasurer, Jacob Patterson Schwartz, Steward,
Julius H enderson Fox, Secretary, John Benton, Tyler.
Lemoore, Cal.

Barker, Albert Milton
Benton, John
Berry, George
Berry, )lapoleon
Blakely, Charles Roy
Brown, Albert Armenia
Brown, Guy Elmer
Brown, Seymore Floyd
Buchanan, William Fletcher
Buckner, Andrew Brown
Buckner, William Rollo
Byron, Edward Herbert
Byron, William Pete
Bryans, Wm. Jennings
Carter, Marcus C., P. M.
Chinn, Green Bedford
Cross, Roy Marion
Dallas, Roderick William
Denzer, Philip
Dickie, William Tupper
Dingley, Willard Ernest, P. M.
Drummond, James, Alexander W.
Eccles, Robert Kerr
Evans, Harry Ward
Ellsworth, Elmer Ellsworth
Ewing, Claude Lee
Fox, Julius Henderson, P. M.
Fox, Lynn Lee ·
Gaunt, Elmer Boon
Gilroy, Launcelott
Gorden, George
Hancock, Benjamin Harrison
Hays, William Price
Heidorn, John Henry E. W.
Hewitt, Newton Benedict
Jennings, Frederick
Ke1ler, Charles William
Knapp, Adolphus Eugene
Kreyenhagen, Emil
Lane, Oliver Perry
Latham, Charles
MacDonald, Alex. Roderick

Marriott, Joseph
Martin, Charles Frank
McCormack, James A.
McCrady, William· Winter, P. M.
McGlashan, Alexander
McGiaahan, John Henry, P. M.
McKay, Albert Luther
McLaughlin, Stiles Ambrose
Merrill, Walter
Momson, Henry
Montgomery, Bert Beamer
Murphy, Richard Augustine
Nidiffer, David Perkins
Nielsen, Andres Jorgen
Odale, John Jefferson, P. M.
Paulding, William Barnett
Payne, Walter Clarence
Reves, Clarence Luther
Richmond, James Morgan
Ritchie, William Rufus
Sanborn, Leavitt Riley
Sanborn, William Horace, P. M.
Schwartz, Gottlob
Schwartz, Jacob Patterson, P. M.
Shore, Richard Edward, P. M.
Siegfried, John Henry, P. M.
Sweetland, Byron Kear
Tafte, Sanders E.
Taylor, Lon Jonas
Taylor, Noah Daniel
'l'hompson, David Walter
Tilton, Geo. Luther
Tobin, John Coffman
Vanderdoes, Alexis Stephen
Vincent, Ferdinand M.
Weems, Harry Leroy
Williams, John W.
Wilson, Willard Merrill
Winans, Charles Spencer
Woodgates, Harry Vacher, P. M.
Young, Samuel
-83

ROSTER

406

WITHDRAWN:
Fenner, Charles Jason

Curtis, Arthur Bi~bings

DIED:
Kurtz, John Leopold
Shore, Gilbert Edward ·

LODI LODGE No. 256.
Lodi, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFrICERS:

Joseph K. Newfield, M asf('r,
Wm. Jacob Thomayer, Chaplain,
Lodi, Cal.
Demas Allen Pope, Senior Deacon,
Corwin Douglass White, Sen. Ward., William Andrew Moore, Jun. Deac.,
John Perratt, Junior Wardell,
Edward Henry Pope, Marshal,
John Millard Blodgett, Treasurer: Thomas Leslie Bawden, Steward,
George W . LeMoin, Secretary,
Perry Orman Clark, Steward,
121 S. School St., Lodi, Cal.
Calvin Allen Bright, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Wilbur Sabin
Brown, William Clifford
Alexander, Fred Colville
Burchard, Edward Adelbert, P. M.
Anderson, Augustus Samuel
Buchenau, George William
Angier, Melbourne Edward
Buck, Charles Henry
Austin, Eugene
Cary, Edward ColfQ.x
Ayers, Melber Forest
Cary, Fred Grant
Barbour, Nathan Roswell, P. M.
Chrisman, Frank
Barnes, Ebenezer Starr
Churchman, Benjamin Conway
Barbour, R.oswell Powell
Clark, Harvey Smith
Bawden, Thomas Leslie
Clark, Perry Orman
Bauer, Adolph, P. M.
Clark, William Sibley
Beckman, Henry Christopher
Clements, John Henry
Bewley, John Clinton
Clifford, Claude Linley
Black, Charles A.
Cogswell, Nathaniel Merrill
Blaisdell, Charles Edward
Colman, Frederick William
Blakely, John Frederick, P. M.
Cooper, Joe E.
Blodgett, John Millard, P. M.
Corson, Charles Hartwell, P. M.
Blodgett, Walter Scott
Craig, Howard Miller, P . M.
Bowen, James A.
Creason, William M.
Bright, Calvin Allen
Custer, Rolla Johns

ROSTER
Davies, John Henry
Davis, Emory Lewis
De Force, Byron Andrew
DelValle, Joseph
Dickey, Hugh Leavitt
Doering, Gottlieb
Dustin, Charles Roscoe
Eaton, Edgar Jay
Elder, Isaac Arthur
Eddleman, Ambus Ozro, P. M.
Ellis, Henry Faulkner
Ferdun, Charles Marshman, P. M.
Ferdun, Ernest Eugene
Ferguson, John Charlesworth
Follendorf, Max
Foster, George Albert
Friedberger, Alex. Valentine, P. M.
Friedberger, Joseph
Friedberger, Leo
Proehnert, Max John
Galloway, John H.
Garretson, George R.
Gerlach, Gustave Adolph
Gillette, Ralph Waldo
Gillingham, Samuel A.
Griswold, Charles A.
Orosshauser, Frank
Uum, Adelbert Keller
Hale, Frank Orlando
Hamilton, Arthur Garfield
Hamilton, George Hayes
Harris, Samuel Milton
Hause, Leslie Irvine
Hawkins, Daniel Zachariah, P. M.
Henning, Frank Albert, P. M.
High, James Hamlin
Hill, George Washington
Hines, Lloyd B.
Hogan, Eugene Sue
Hogan, George
Hopkins, James Everett ·
Hughes, William T.
Irey, Frank F.
.Tackson, Bernard
Keagle, George Andrew, l'. M.

Kreeger, Virgil E.
Leffler, William Henry
LeMoin, George Worley, l'. M.
Lillie, Charles Franklin
Lillie, John Harry
Lucas, Albert Curtin
Maginnis, John Spure
Martin, Robert William, P. M.
Mason, Louis T.
McLellan, William Cyril
McClure, Richard Benton
McKenzie, Hugh Alexander
Micheelsen, Fritz
Montgomery, John Silas, P. M.
Moore, William Andrew
Morris, James Magregor
Morse, Edward Elliott
Nelson, James Everett
Nelson, Svend Christian
Newfield, Joseph K.
Newfield, Marcus
Newfield, Melville Warren
Norton, Charles Willis, P. M.
Pearson, Benjamin Franklin
Perrott, John, Jr.
Pope, De~as Allen
Pope, Edward Henry, P . M.
Poppe, Frank
Raines, Thomas John
Rector, Charles H.
Richards, Robert Alfred
Rothwell, John Henry
Schu, Robert Alexander
Scott, John Wesley
Scott, Thomas Arthur
Segsworth, Frederick
Seigel, William Frederick
l::!hattuck, John Webster
Shidy, Milton Winfield
Smith, Horace Manning
Smith, Dempsey Dilworth
Spooner, William Alden, P. M.
Springer, William Alexander
Stannard, Henry Bert
Steacy, Edwin George

407

ROSTER

408

Steele, George Martin
Stein, John Albert
Swain, O:eorge
Thomayer, William Jacob, P. M.
Thompson, Wilson Henry
Tindell, Pleasant Hay, P. M.
Valentine, Richard Percy
Villinger, Charles Lucian
Wauchope, Thomas Frank
W eiblen, Frank
Weinert, Albert John
Welch, Chester Bascom
Welch, Edwin Forrest

Magee, Stillman Lock

Welch, Hilliard Elihu, P. M.
Westfall, Eugene M.
Westlake, William Nelson
White, Corwin Douglas
Whittaker, David Newton
Whittaker, Marion Wm.
Willard, Oscar Cunnyngham
Williams, William Thomas
Willms, John Henry
Wooten, Joseph Bivens
Wright, Edgar B.
Wright, Harry Everett
Zimmerman, Sam Herman
-156

DIED:
Bruml, H<'nry Jesse
Mowry, Sherman Wesley

PENRHYN LODGE, No.. 258.
Penryn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full 'Moon.
OFFICERS:

Clark Verian Freed, Master,
Robert Kayo, Chaplain,
Newcastle, Cal.
Albert David Lininger, Sen. Deacon,_
Porter Lee Taylor, Senior Warden, Ralph Edward Naramore, Jun. Deac.,
Frederic Isedore Adge, Jun. Ward., Elmer Gordon Crofts, Marshal,
William Ervin Lininger, Treasurer, Herbert B. Dobbas, Steward,
James Joseph Callison, Secretary, Marien Rufus Struble, Steward,
Loomis, Cal.
Owen Rowland Owens, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adge, Frederick Isadore
Butler, Harry Everett
Adge, Isidore W.
Callison, .James Joseph
Archibald, Edward
Carlson, Charles
Archibald, William
Crofts, Elmer Gordon, P. M.
Barrett, Marquis de Lafayette
Cullen, Charles Wesley
Day, Samuel Chester
Bickford, Joseph Arthur
Dillree, Ray Evans
Bickford, Warren Scott
Dobas, Herbert B.
Boller, George Carl, P. M.
Dunn, Thomas Patrick
Boller, Warren Bigforth
Brainard, Charles Greyson
Eckhardt, Albert Dostal
Eckhardt, Earnest Frank
Brooke, William Ansyl

ROSTER
Elliott, James Dennis
Fereva, Antone, P. M.
Fereva, Leon Carl
Files, John Williaro
Ford, Robert Wharton
Freed, Clark Vivian
Gibson, Frederick James
Hazleton, Roland J.
Howell, Harry Burton
Hughes, David Griffith
l{atzenstein, Edmund
Kayo, Frederick Eugene
Kayo, Robert, P. M.
Kayo, William
Ketchum, Henry Clark
Laird, Samuel Clark
Lavera, Clifton Gillman
Law, Albert
Leak, Herbert Nelson
Lininger, Wm. Ervin, P. M.
Logan, Robert Adelbert
Martin, Charles, P. M.
Mason, Frederick Julian
Misley, Thomas Brazil
Miles, Frederick Charles, P. M.
Naramore, Ralph Edward
Owen, David Robert
Owens, Harry Rowland
Owens, Owen Rowland

409

Packwood, James Albert
Pendleton, George H.
Phillips, James P. Medland, P. M.
Plank, Willard J.
Rackliffe, Pitt Bartlett
Rippey, :E;umund Lee
Roberts, David Allan
Robertson, Edgar Simpson
Schnabel, Carl Kenneth
Scroggs, Chester Alexander
Shepherd, Benjamin Walker
Skinner, Orville Jay
Small, Frank Ehv.in, P. M.
Smith, Arthur E dward Hughes
Smith, Mortimer Leggett
Spratt, Newton Glascoe
Struble, Marion Rufus
Taylor, Harry Leonard
Taylor, Howard Buford
Taylor, Porter Lee
Torrence, Charles
'l'udsbury, Howard West
Tudsbury, William Holden
Tupper, Frank
Turner, Frederick William
Wallace, John
Worth, Elmer Jason
Worth, Fred 'k Carpenter
Wilder, Abbott Pierson
-80

EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259.
Riverside, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Leonard Albert Cowles, Master,
William Crook Clatworthy, Chaplain,
318 Penn Block.
Charles Oroville Reid, Sen. Deacon,
Orville Powell Sanders, Sen. Ward., Charles Henry Daum, Jun. Deacon,
Adam Heber Winder, Jun. Ward., John T. Jarvis, Marslial,
Charles Bowdoin Bayler, Treasurer, William Frederick Thomas, Steward,
Robert Preston Cundiff, Secretary, Verne Marion Freeman, Steward,
342 Lime St.
Robt Josiah Townsend White, Tyler.

410

ROST EB

ROST EU

MEMBERS:
Castleman, John Saxton
Alguire, Myron
Castleman, Pember Stearns
Alguire, Urban
Allcock, Henry Edwin
Castleman, Stanley Joseph, P. M.
Allen, Benjamin Franklin
Cell, Charles Werty
Amstutz, John William
Cerveau, Alexander
Anderson, James Arnold
Chamblin, Wilber Newton, P. M.
Avey, William Albert
Chapman, Charles William
Babcock, John W.
Chase, J. Warren
Backstrand, John Ferdinand
Christern, Abraham Chapman
Banks, Walter Charlton
Christianson, Neales Peter
. Barker, Charles Omer
Clancy, William Bernard, P. M.
Barker, Thomas Jefferso.n
Clark, Arthur B.
Barton, Clarence Walter
Clark, John Edward
Bates, Michael Washington
Clark, Walter David
Clatworthy, William Crook
Bauman, John Henry
Cobb, Ralph Monroe
Bayley, Charles Bowdoin, P. M.
.Cooper, James Fenncmore·
Bayley, John G., P. M.
Corcoran, William H.
Beamer, Jacob Eden
Bedford, Aaron
Cornwell, Jos. Wm.
Cover, Thomas Mortimer
Benshoof, Chester William
Bishop, John Lewis
Covey, Frank Richard
Covey, Jules Harlan
Bittinger, George E.
Cowles, Leonard Albert
Boalich, Edwin A.
Cox, John Henry Dutcher
Bowman, Menno S., P. M.
Crider, Amos James
Boyd, J. Calvin
Crimmins, John T.
Briggs, Frederick Alden
Cundiff, Robert Preston
Brouse, Charles Emery H.
Brownscomb, Thomas Fairchild
Cunningham, Geo. Dimock, P. M.
Brown, Alva Thurlow
Cuttle, Francis
Brown, Arthur Leon
Dalrymple, John R.
Brown, Lyman VanWinkle
Daniels, Milton J.
Brundidge, Loui11 A.
Darling, Lorenzo Franklin, P. M.
Buehler, Richard M.
Daum, Charles Henry
Buckley, Henry Demetrius
Davi<lson, William Creighton
Burden, Harry Lee
Davis, Frank Clark
Burgess, Clayson Sylvester
Davis, George Robert
Button, Ernest Gilman
Davis, Paul McDonald
!'aldwell, Albert Augustine
Delano, Francis Junius
Campbell, Albert Park
Dewey, Philip Henry
Campbell, Donald Wm.
Dicken, Fred Thomas
CnTpenter, James Collier
Dickson, Charles Sanford
Carr, William Wallace
Dowler, William Ross
Carrier, Frederick L.
Drayton, James Earl, P. M.

Dunlap, Horace G.
Durfrey, James Gerald
Elder, Daniel S.
Elliott, l rvine
Elliott, James Rutherford
Ellis, A. Ellsworth
Ellis, John Harvey, P. M.
Enderley, Frederick W.
Estudlllo, Miguel
Evans, Charles Orrick
Evans, :::lamuel Carey
Fairchild, Thomas
Farr, William
Fish, Charles Dearborn
Fish, John Wallace
Fox, John Porter
Fraser, Hugh Mills
Frazee, :::lamuel R.
Freeman, Isaac Newton
French, Henry Dearborn, P. M.
Fulmor, Alex. Chope
Gage, Daniel D.
Gage, William Judson
Gamble, Austin Abraham
Gates, DeRoy Harkness
Gilbert, James
Gill, Lafayette
Gilliland, Hosea Franklin
Gillispie, Clarence Alexander
Gilchriest, James Burrns
Gillick, William Martin
Glenn, Ludwill Gaines
Gray, Charles R.
Gready, George Murray
Greaves, James McClellan
Griffith, Thomas R.
Grizzle, Charles Guy
Gunderson, Halvor
Gunsolus, Philip Andrew
Hamilton, Charles De C.
Hamilton, Ernest G.
Hamilton, Ralph Alexander
Hammond, Harry ·Augustus
Hammond, Harry Walter, P. M.
H a ncock, Claude Perceval

Harger, K. D.
Hathaway, Walter Scott
Hawes, Norman Sunderland
Hayt, William Augustus
Heath, Charles E.
Heath, Frederick Miller
Hebert, Charles Prescott
Hector, Richard William
Hedger, Leonard Weyman
Helmer, William Zeaman
Hennesy, Thomas Milton
Herbert, Jesse Ernest
Hibbard, Hiram Colby
Hibble, William Edward
Hi-ckley, Samuel Bond, P. M.
Holden, George Philip
Holland, Joseph Howard
Hooker1 Amos Henry
Horton, Abraham Anderson
Horton, Joseph Robert
Hotchkiss, Stephen Stearns
Howard, Perley Winser
Hudson, Josephus
Huse, Curtis Ferdinand
Irving, David
Jahn, John Royal
Jarvis, John T., P. M.
Jarvis, Joseph
Jefferson, Eugene H a ll
Jenkins, Robert Theo.
Johnson, Eugene Christian
Johnson, Jay Joel
Johnson, Wm. Arthur
Josylyn, Frank King
Keith, Walter Elmer, P. M.
Kelsey, George Hyde, P. M.
Kightlinger, Elmer Ellsworth
Kimball, John Stewart
Kirknndall, James L.
Kjellburg, Gunner
Knight, Lewis A.
Lamar, Richard David
Lewis, Arlington Cyrus
Lightner, Felix
Lippincott, Rosco Delmar

411

412
Lock, William John
Martin, Achilles
Martin, Hugh Ralph
Maxwell, William
Maynard, Horton Dunbar
McBain, DanielMcCarty, George Albert
McClure, Daniel Riehler
McClure, Ralph Redman
McDougall, Jamee
McFarland, Chauncey L.
Mcintyre, Hillary A.
McJohnson, Robert E.
McKay, John D.
MeKenney, Joseph Wilson
McLaren, Harry Calvin
McLeod, John William
McLeod, Lemuel James
McMahill, William
Melrose, George C.
Merrill, Charles Henry
Myers, Leonard Francis·
Miller, Wm. Burritt
Mills, James William
Mills, Henry Nathaniel
Mitchell, David G.
Mitchell, Frederick Bernard
Morrison, Francie Templeton
Moulton, Ernest Smith
Moorman, Orange L.
Morgan, William Augustus
Moss, Robert Elgin
Murray, Hugh McKenzie
Newman, Gustavius Olivio
Newman, Lewis Henry
Nichols, Arthur Doty
Noyes, Frank Albert
Ocheltree, Arthur Robinson
Ormiston, Oscar Bishop
Paddock, Job Albert
Paddock, John James
Palmer, Oscar Jacob
Papineau, Ottley
Parker, Ashley Stephens, P. M.
Parkhurst, John

ROSTER

ROST EB
Parsons, Frank Watson
Patton, Vaughn Quain
Payton, William Bruce
Pearson, George Mitchner
Pennington, Charles E.
Pennington, Percy George
Perrine, Charles Oscar
Peter, Frederick
Phelps, William Wykes
Piddington, Alfred Alexander
Pilgrim, William Mawer
Polkinghorn, William Henry
Pontius, David Willard
Poore, George Clinton
Prescott, Mervin Ferris
Priestly, Herbert Ingram
Purington, William Ansel
Putnam, Nathan T.
Rayner, Edward
Reed, Benjamin B.
Reid, Charles Orville
Reynolds, Charles Low
Reynolds, Thomas Mills
Rice, Almer L.
Rice, Charles Thomae
Richards, Charles Edgar
Rieckho:ff, Chas. Fred 'k
Rimell, Philip Geo.
Robbins, Orio George
Robeson, Jas. Percy, P. M.
Robertson, Robert P.
Robinson, William Henry
Roblee, Wm. Wallace
Rockhold, John Ellsworth
Roes, George fl,
Rouse, Gaylor
RueRell, Robert William
Russell, William Prior
Russell, Wilson Byron, P. M.
Russell, Zadoc
Samuelson, William
Sanborn, Kingsbury, P. M.
Sanders, Orville Powell
Sanker, Sylvester
Sarles, Lewis Winser

Schaf, Leonard
Schwab, Peter
Sculp, John Peter
Seburn, Thaddeus K.
Severding, John Henry
Shedd, Herbert Alex.
Shields, Joseph Edward
Shiels, Charles Montgomery
Simms, John Allen
Small, Henry Kimball
Spoonamore, Morrie D.
Stone, Philip Casper
Stower, Alex. Campbell
Sweet, Arthur Newton
Taylor, Frederick Franklin
Thomas, William Frederick
'l'hompson, Herbert L ..
Tracy, Thomae
True, William Herbert
Tucker, Edwin Waite
Tuma, Albert Burns
Twogood, Milo Judson
Van Fleet, Mayne L.
Van Pelt, Warren Wiley
Waddingham, Edward Francia
Wade, Ira D. Sankey

Bray, William Frederick
.BeJJton, Herbert Elm on
Em~t, La:wrence Lewis
Herl>t>lrath, Frank
K<"lsey, James Henry
Lowr.11, George Edward

Wagner, Joseph Swaim
Waite, Charles Edgar
Waite, Claude Weld
Walker, Charles Arthur
Walter, Benjamin Adam
Walther, Arthur S.
Ward, Chae. Henry
Ward, George Franklin
Warren, Geo. Randall
Warren, John Henry Waldo
Watkins, Chester Arthur
Way, Ellsworth Henry
Webb, Edward D. Holton, P. M.
Wheator, George William
White, Hobt. Josiah Town 'nd
White, Samuel Adams
Whitney, Jno. Samuel L.
Williams, Elmer Ellsworth
Williams, Willard Franklin
Wilson, Frank Pierce
Wilson, Prentice Farrer
Winder, A. Heber
Worthley, Frederick Almon
Yerbury, Orville Grant
Young, Cornelius
Younkin, Albert
-318

WITHDRAWN:
:Mitchell, Eben Lester
}fumby, William Edward
"Pacey, Ira Emile
•Riley, William Henry
Shamel, Arehibald Dixon
Stephenson, Albert Elmer
Ta~·Ior, Zachary Abner

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Allum, Ralph Loyd
Hewt1tt, Theodore Dwight
Daughters, John Jamee
Peach, Charles Arthur

Angell, Andrew H.
Boggs, Augustus Washington
I•unbar, Frederick Martin
•Atnllated during the year.

413

DIED:
Holmes, Elmer Wallace
Klinefelter, Peter K .
'fhayer, George Richard

414

ROSTER

ROSTER

KING SOLOMON'S LODGE, No.

260.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:

Frank Allston Swain, Master,
Arthur Macdonald Blade, Chaplain,
57 Post St.
James Lafayette Halstead, Sen. Deac,
Frank Wickes Hosmer, Sen. Warden, Henry Lloyd Green, Jun. Deacon,
] ohn Fletcher Campbell, Jim . Ward., Fred Burrage Wood, Marshal,
William Parker Filmer, Treasurer, George E. Weaver, Steward,
Harry Baehr, Secretary,
Frederick Fullerton Wright, Stew.,
1745 Fillmore St.
Hiram French Wright, Tyler,
(Of Starr K ing No. 344).
MEMBERS:
Ahlborn, Henry
Ahlers, Henry C.
Alexander, Archibald Mcintosh,
Alexander, Harry
Alexander, William Frederick
Altvater, Edward Louis
Ambrose, Frank Murray
Anderson, Julius
Armbrust, Adolph Charles
Armstrong, James William
Ascher, Henry Dietrich
Asher, Maurice Louis
Auld, Ernest Christian
Aust, Frank William
Austin, Arthur Thomas Craxford
Ayers, Clarence Warwick
Ayers, Herman Charles
Ayers, John Clarkson
Bacon, Gaston Ernest, P. M.
Bader, Henry
Baehr, Harry
Baehr, Walter Harry
Balogh, Martin
Banks, William Edward
Barclay, Alex. James
Batkin, Alfred Augustus
Baum, Simon

Beall, Samuel .Josiah
Beanston, Peter
Beck, Adolph
Beck, Henry Martin
Bell, Arthur Reginald
Bell, Charles Henry
Belli, WiJliam Ciprian
Belser, Julius Henry
Benzoin, William
Beretta, Caesar Louis
Berson, Maurice Adolph
Bertrand, Frederic Joseph
Birdsall, Walter Buell
Blade, Arthur Macdonald, P. M.
Blakely, Joseph Henry
Block, Archibald Ira
Bobbs, Arthur Lee
Bolte, Carl Noble
Bone, John Christopher
Bonney, Charles Sumner
Bothe, Luer
Bottomley, Liberty Halstead
Bourne, John Philip
Bowers, Charles Silvey
Boyan, Charles Max
.
Boyd, La wre.n ce Herbert
Brandt, Louis B.

Branilt, ·waiter Bernard
Broau, Alfred Jt'ry
Brobeck, William Irvin
Brown, John Fred
Brown, Richard
Browne, Allan Henry
Browne, Thomae Henry
Bucher, Charles Columban
Buell, William Eugene
Buescher, Arthur Gustave
Buescher, Walter William
Buetow, Frederick Wm. Carl
Bunnell, Edwin
Burich, George
Burnley, Alfred
Bush, Charles George
Bush, George Mickle
Cahill, Charles Frederick
Cailleaud, Henry Alex.
Caldw!'ll. Forest Reamer
Campbell, John Fletcher
Cannon, William Martin
Carpenter, John Lewis
Chalmers, George Martin
Chapin, Frank Eugene
Childs, Bolton Gardner
Christman, George
Clements, Percy Robert
Cleve, Clarence Taylor, P. M.
Clodi, Louis Charles Julius
Cobb, Charles William
Cohn, Max Meyer
Cole, William Lake
Colton, Alric Oewy
Conn, Edward Elmer, P . M.
Cook, Abijah Catlin
Cook, Jesse Brown
Cordell, Edward Charles
Cords, David Andrew
Cords, William G.
Corliss, Edward Mitchel
Cranston, John
Creswell, Harry Thornton
Crist, Wiley Frank
' Cronin, Ernest Matthew

Crough, John Arthur
Curry, Charles Forrest
Daverkoeen, Frank Edward
Davidson, Louis Naphthaly, P. M.
Davies, William Henry
Davis, Emanuel
Davis, George Mabery, P. M.
Davis, Griffith
Davis, Henry H.
Dawes, Alfred George
Dean, Robert Armstrong
Dean, Stephen John
Deckelman, Hiram Abiff
DeLuca, Gesualdo
Denhard, Otto Ernest
Detjen, Henry Louis
cleWit, Henry Albert
DeYoung, Michel Henry
Dibble, Oliver
Dickhoff, Bernard Seligman
Dixon, Samuel Wash.
Dobbin, Hamilton Henry
Dobey, Austin England
Dodge, Henry Wash.
Dolman, Percival
Doose, John Christian
Dore, Emile
Dreher, Frederick Louis
Drinkhouse, Frederick -aosenbaum
Duke, Thomas Samuel
Dunn, Albert Wheelock
Dunne, James Patrick
Durfee, Edward Melville
Edwards, Edward
Egan, Edward Matthew
Eggers, Antone Carl
Eichorn, Julius Anthony
Eisert, Henry William
Elliot, Charles Melville
Elliott, Charles Cornelius
Ellis, John Craw
Emanuel, Samuel
England, William Albert
Ernst, Thomas
Eva, James Martyn

415

416

ROS'fER

Eva, Samuel James
Falk, Adrian Joseph
Fannin, James Henry, Jr.
Faulkner, Richard Douglas
Federspiel, Sophns
Felter, William Rensalaer
Fetter, Ferdinand
Filmer, George
Filmer, William Parker, P. G. M.
Finberg, Martin Isaae
Fitz Gerald, John Joseph
Fletcher, George Robert
Fletcher, Joseph Marshall
Frankhouser, Enos Bennias
Fritch, John Homer
Gamble, Frederick Nixon
Gard, John Ceeil
Garden, Frank Macdonald
Garms, Walter Irving
Garnie, Fred Henry
Garrett, William Taylor
Gaston, Henry Carson
Gates, Harry Everett
Gauld, George Green
Gay, Robert Henry
Gedge, Donald McCulloeh
Gellert, Isaac
George, Louis Elstner
Gerdes, Henry George
Gibson, Atherton Bruce
Gillman, Thomas
Gilson, Alfred Goodrich
Ginley, Edward
Goldman, Joseph Hamilton
Goldstone, Joseph
Goldstone, Leo William
Goodman, Jacob Leon
Gorman, Edward Mitchell
Gorman, James Bartholomew
Gould, Frank Horaee, P. M.
Graham, George Davis
Graham, Gilbert Fuller
Green, Frederick Pell
Green, H enry Lloy•l
Griffith, Robert Hamilton

Grundel, Otto Ferdinand
Gunzendorfer, Gustave, P. M.
Haag, Charles Paul
Hagedorn, August George
Halsted, James Lafayette
Hansen, Lawrence Henry
Hansen, Lorenz Henry
Hare, George Arthur
Harlow, George Totten
Harris, Cyrus Burnett
Harris, Henry
Harris, .James Dudley
Harris, James William
Harris, Levi
Harris, Marshall C.
Hart, Frank Loring
Hart, Henry Hersch
Hartley, Roland English, P. M.
Hatch, James Henry
Hatcher, James B\!rry
Hatfield, Arthur Solomon
Hathaway, William Russell
Hawkes, Robert Hamilton
Hawthorne, Charles Ralph
Heacock, Frank Thomas
Healy. Edwin Clifford
Heinecke. p,.,,1 William
Heinemann. ()J,,f .Tnban
Henderson, John
Hertz, Louis
Higgins, Charles Clunn
Hinkel, George Washington
Hirsch, David
Hobbs, Ira Sedley, P. M.
Hockwald, Abraham
Hoffman, Albert
Holje, Martin
Holling, Frederick Charles
Hollister, Geo. Watkins
Hooper, John Raymond
Hoover, George Spencer
Horne, Albert Clarke
Hosmer, Frank Wicks
Hoxie, Vivian Walter
Huber, Martin Henry

ROSTER
Leete, Walter Howard
Huber, Otto Frederick
Huff, Wm. Henry Routin·
Levingston, Lafayette
Hulling, James Alexauder
Levison, Benjamin
Hult, Clarenee Albin
Levison, Harry
Hunsaker, Hiram Walker
Levy, Melville Samuel
Hutchings, Hiram Samuel
Levy, Sylvain Samuel
Hyer, John Jacob
· Lewis, Emanuel
Inch, Leonard Perkins
Lieb, Warren Frederick
Ingerson, Harry Ford
Linde, Theodore
Irvine, John Christopher
Lindsay, Fred Johnston
Jackson, Archibald
Little, William Thomas
Janssen, Edward Anton
. Livingston, Harvey L.
Jellison, Benjamin Franklin, P. M. Logan, Roscoe L ee
Lowenberg, Albert Joseph
Johnson, Augu~t
Johnson, Clark Gunnard
· Lurmann, Karl Frederick
Jones, Bert Russell
Lurmann, Frederick William
Jones, Ottiwell Wood
Lynch, Henry Hudson
Jones, Richard Huber Sayers
Maack, Walter Henry
Kant, Max David
Maddan, Ronald Harwood
Kayton, Abraham Harold
Maginnis, Charles
Kernell, Andrew Jackson
Manning, George. Patrick
Kidd, Arthur
Manning; H orat io Seymour
Kiefer, Edgar Baum
Marais, Charles Louis Peter, P. M.
Kimble, Charles William
Marble, William Manton
Kinread, William Henry
Marcus, Siegfried
Klein, Adolph
Marlin, William Abel
Knapp, Wilbur Frederick
Marshall, Joseph Lawrenee
Kochman, Michael J.
Martin, Oliver Brooks
Koch, John
Mathison, John Alfred
Koop, Otto Lewie
May, Angelo Mayer
Knopfmaeher, Maurice Henry
Mayers.Edgar, Joh n
Krafft, Julius Ernest
McCullough, Edwin Clifford
Kress, Charles Henry Victor
Mcilvaine, Winfield Kennedy
Kroenke, August Ernst ·
McKee, William Joseph
Kroenke, Edward Henry Ferd.
MeMullen, Burton Fletcher
Kucich, Spiro
Mee, John Sydney
Labhard, Theodore James
Meinen, Fred August
Lange, Charles Edward
Merralls, William Augustus
Lang, Giles Benjamin
Metson, William Henry
Lattimore, Andrew Johnston
Meyer, Adolph
Lau, Albert Henry
Meyer, Albert Adolph
Law, Hartland
Meyer, Albert Martin
Layng, John Beatty
Miller, Adam
Layng, William Gib~on
Miller, J esse H arrison
27

417

418

ROSTER

Millman, Louis Phllip
Minedew, Oliver Francis
Mitchell, John Renton
Mocker, Andrew
Moelk, Henry Peter
Mollenhauer, John Louis
Monckton, Frank Du.niel
Moon, Frederick
Moore, Robert Bruce
Moore, William Irwin
Moores, Charles William
Morel, Charles Frank
Morgu.n, Percy Tredegar
Morgenstern, Alfred William
Morris, Milton EdwarJ
Morton, Thomas John
Mote, Elmer Ellsworth
Mues, John Frederick
Mundell, William Anderson
Murch, John Harold, Jr., P. M.
Murch, John Haven
Murphy, Cornelius Emit
Nauert, August Bertram
Neal, George Folger
Nelson, John Edwin
Nelson, Peter Nicoll
Nichols, Hiram Delbert
Nielson, Thomas
Niemann, Carl Henry
Nienburg, William John
Noethig, Hermann William, P. M.
Nocthig, Wm. Frederick
Ochsner, Richard Leon
Ohm,' Rudolph Ferderick
0 'Keefi'e, Daniel Joseph Augustin
Olcovich, Julian Herrman
Packer, Charles Henry
Patterson, Lloyd Horace
Peek, Allen Harris
Peek, George Foster
Pennycook, William Gemmel
Peters, Henry
Peterson, George
Peterson, Ivan Leopold
Peterson, Julius Ole

Petrie, Frank Branson
Pickard, Ch11rlea
Pickett, Jesse Cameron
Pinkham, Chas. Bradley
Place, George Coxon
Pratt, Frank
Price, William
Proll, William Reginald
Puck, Richard Frederick S. ·
Putnam, Leo. James
Rainsbury, John
Raisch, Albert John
Raisch, William Christopher
Ralston, Franklin Freeman
Ran.f t, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Recarte, Domingo Henry
Redfield, Francis Edwin
Redmond, Ezekiel
Reynolds, Johnson, P. M.
Rice, William Edgar
Rice, William Henry
Richards, James Henry
Richards, John Francis
Riehl, Richard
Rier, August Fredrich
Rixon, Albert William
Roberts, Joseph W.
Roethe, Edward John
Roemer, Oscar Max
Rogers, Henry George
Rogers, Samuel Lucius
Rohde, Peter Frederick
R.>se, Carl Walter
Rosendorn, ·Solomon
Ross, William Moulton
Rossick, Frank
Rothkopf, Albert Peter
Rupp, George Paul
Rushton, Charles Austin
Ryan, Frank Bradberry
Ryfkogel, William Jamee Yuill
Sainges, Prosper Albert
Salsbury, Charle•
Sanders, James Montague
Saxton, James George

ROSTER
Saylor, William Henry
Schalitz, Carl Louis
Scheel, Conrad Ernest
Schiff, Edwin Raymond
Schiller, Nathan
Schilling, ,John Charles
Schleicher, August Frederick
Schloss, Aaron, P. M.
Schnee, Gustave
Schober, Henry Julius
S~hraemli, Emile
Schussler, Toby
Scott, George Benjamin
Sessions, Samuel E . G.
Sherman, Edward Everett
Shimer, Harry Woodworth
Sievers, J<'ranciR Otto
Silver, Mark Butler
Simmen, Frank Paul, P. M.
Skellinger, Harry Dow
Smiley, Sa:muel Patton
Smith, Andrew Francis
Smith, Charles Alfred
Smith, Frank Landers Markham
Smith, John Thompson
Smith, Louis Edwin
Smyth, Ow~n Henry
Snow, Samuel
Sobel, Max Marcus
Solmonson, Julian Kaskel
Spencer, Willii.m Freeman
Spanton, James
Spowart, James Beverage
Spreckels, John D., Jr.
Sproule, William
Staneart, John Warren
Steiner, Joseph Samuel
Steinmann, Otto
Stevens, James William
Stevenson, Samuel Boyd, P. M.
Stewart, Charles Richard
Stone, Waid James
Stott, Joseph Hood
Suhr, Herrman Fred, ·Jr.
Swain, Frank Allston

41!1

Taber, Orrin, Jr.
Tade, John Edwin
Teller, George
Thomas, Francois Charles
Thomson, Harry Stoddard
Tittel, Robert Carl
Toni, Edward George
Toothill, Albert
Tracy, Theo, Foster
Trail, John Critchley F.
Tryon, William Merrill
Tunstead, Thomas Dun com be
Turner, Ernest
Van Emon, Burton Charles
Vecki, Victor G.
Veit, Mathias
Vogelsang, Alex. Theo.
Waas, Louis Henry Hermann
Wagener, Francis Emil
Wagner, Henry Fred
Walker, Robert Andrew
Warwick, David
Warwick, James Blain
Watklns, Joseph
Weaver, George E.
Webster, Frank Woodward
Weihe, Otto Albert
Welch, James Francis
Welisch, Armand L .
Wenzel, Henry
Wertheimer, Bertram Ed.
Wertheimer, Kaufman
Wetherbee, Charles
Wetherbee, George
Wethered, William Lowry
Whiting, Randolph Virginius, P. M.
White, ·watter Hastings
Whitley, Gerald Storer
Whibon, John Granville
Wieboldt, Peter Wm. Nicholas
Williams, Thomas Carlisle
Wims, Christopher Cooke
Wise, Wallace Christian
Witham, William Leonard
Wittman, George Walter, P. M.

,ROSTER

ROSTER

420

Best, Louis Homer
Boardman, Wilbur Fisk
Chevalier, Edward Victor

Bosworth, Henry Clark
Noble, William. WallaCB>
Brim, John Willy
Northey, George ;vind"!Jh
Carney, Joseph Francis
Northey, Percivat~ilton, P. M.
Clark, Herman Foster
·Olsen, Peter
d
Peters, Benjamin Fran\}iD
Clark, Reuben, P. M.
Comstock, Geo. Courtland, P. M.
Peters, BenjaminEHenry.
Course, John Mitchell
Pryor, Benjamin Poldard
Rathbun, Horace HHbert, P •. M.
Crutcher, James Wilson
Eakle, Stephen Smith, P. M.
Rathbun, Joseph Edwin,' P. M.
Entrican, Austin Arthur, P. M.
Schaad, Charles Lemuel'
Fouch, Bert Leland
Schaad, Clarence AugustSchaad, Leroy
Fouch, Ira Albert, P. M.
Fouch, John Franklin, P. M.
Schuckman, Charles Walter ·
Franke, Gustaif· Ernest, P. M.
Schuckman, Frank James
Graham, Patrick Heney
Simmons, George Henry, P. M;
Harris, Joseph Warren'
Spencer, John Adams ·
Hemenway, George
Stites, William Henry, P. M.
Kimball, Adolphus Wellington, P. M. Stovall, Hiram Curl, P. M.
Kidd, Floyd Edwin
Stovall, James McFarran
Kneutzen, Edgar Hound
Sutton, Adam Fisher
Leek, Ernest August
Tully, William Curtis
Levy, Aaron B.
Ware, George Abner, P. M.
Levy, Louis Leven
West, Charles Edward, P. M.
Manor, Lewis G.
White, John Cobb
Mendenhall, John ·Lindsey, P. M. Worsley, Everett John
Mitchell, David Grover
-57

Young, Henry Fred
Young, James
Zeiss, Walter Peter
Zellerbach, Isadore
Ziliani, Faustino
Ziliani, Joseph Charles

Wolpmann, Diedrich
Wood, Fred Burrage, P. M.
Woods, Roy Vayne
Woodworth, Norval D.
Worthington, HaYry Lee
Wrenn, John Winchester
Wright, Fred 'k Fullerton

-515

WITHDRAWN:
Drucker, George Ihmer
*Hoger, Herman Christian
Miller, Joseph B.
Rowe, Purcell

SUSPENDED FOR

NO~-PAYMENT

OF DUES:
Gay, Frank Henry
Hourihan, Eugene Patrick
Thaten, Peter Hansen
Wood, Thomas

Bartlett, Walter Jason Robert
Campbell, John
Cluness, William Ross, Jr.
Donlon, Thomas Arthur

DIED:
Hughes, Edward Calvin
Cox, Alexander Middleton
Schnee, Marcus
Farnsworth, Edward P.
Zahler, Emil Frederick
•Restored during the year.

TUSCAN LODGE, No.

261.

LOMPOC LODGE, No.

Williams, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

MEMBERS:
Barker, George William
Boardman, Francis Marion
Bond, David Milton

Abel, George Lambert
Abel, John Frederick, Jr., P. M.
Antho11y, George Jonathan

262.

Lompoc, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

Benjamin Franklin Peters, Master, Aaron B. Levy, Senior Deacon,
Williams, Cal.
Leroy Schaad, Junior Deacon,
Bert Leland Fouch, Senior Warden, Austin Arthur Entrican, Marshal,
Ira Albert Fouch, Junior Warden, Everett James Worsley, Steward,
James McFarren Stovall, Treasurer, Charles Lemuel Schaad, Steward,
Percival Hamilton Northey, Sec.,
George Vine Northey, Tyler.
Williams, Cal.

421

I

'

OFFICERS:
Frederick Allen Brown, Master,
George F. Rucker, Chaplain,
Lompoc, Cal.
Dalbert R. Daniels, Senior Deacon,
Carl D. McCabe, Seiiior Warden,
Milton E. Moore, Junior Deacon,
Charles K. Hardenbrook, J. Ward., William Helmer Bye, Marshal,
Amos Carter Whittemore, Treasurer, Wright C. Eissinger, Steward,
Harry Harrison Lambert, Secretary, Robert E. Sudden, Steward,
.Lompoc, Cal.
William J. Withrow, Tyler.

Adam, Donald McDonald
Anderson, Ernest
Andrews, Owen Merriwether

MEMBERS:
Bailey, William Henry
Batkin, Royal Phillip
Bayley, Benjamin Franklin

422
Beatty, Sanford Wilson
Bissinger, Wright Conrad
Boie, Francis Hugo
Boyd, Allan March
Branch, George
Brown, Frederick Allen
Brown, Frederick Dorwin
Buchanan, Porter
Buckman, Howard Spencer
Burke, Albert Dana
Burne, Alfred Isaac
Bye, William Helmer, P. M.
Callis, Frank Irwin
Case, George Lester
Condaffer, Ferdinand C.
Corbett, Frederick William
Daniels, Dalbert ·R.
Dauneberg, Robert, P. M.
Davis, Charles Augustus
Dillon, Martin Van Buren
Dimock, Harry Clinton, P. M.
Dimock, Joseph
Dreyfus, Gaston
Dyer, Albert Hull
Earl, James Fennel
Elkins, Iris Benson
Febrensen, Fred 'k J.
Field, Ezra Grant
Graham, James William
Griffin, Richard S.
Hallow~y, James . Weaver
Hardenbrook, Charles Kelley
Harris, Sampson .B.
Holloway, Albert Johnston
Holst, Gerhard Tonberg
Howerton, Mat W.
Huyck, Clarence L.
Huyck, Waite?" Scott
Jackson, Walter King
Kahn, Louis
Kaiser, William
Kelliher, Mayville Sumpter
Kidd, Robert Boben
King, Charles Harvey
Kirkpatrick, John Morse

ROSTER
Klein, Julius, P. II.
Lambert, Henry Harrison
Lazier, Richard Albert
Lehmann, Armond, P. M.
Lehmann, Charle& Etnile
Lewie, Frank Stanton
Lewis, James F.
Lewis, Walter A.
Lind, John Christian
Luton, George :Roscoe
Marshall, Benton Fred 'k
McCabe, Carl D.
McCabe, Hatty O,
McCabe, Henry Edwin
McGee, James Henry
McGr:gor, Robert Roy
McPhail, Albert Franklin
Meade, Alonzo
Moore, Milton E.
Perry, Thomae Longworth
Plumm, tieorge Washington
Poland, Heneon, P. M.
Poulsen, Jensen Peter
Rend, Charles E.
Reynolds, Geo. Edgar
Ripley, William Judson
RobeTtson; J·ames Edward
Rosendale, Henry Johannes
Rucker, Geo. Ferguson, P. M.
Rudolph, Arthur, P. M.
Rudolph, Harvey Sampson
Rudolph, John Franklin
Saunders, Ray Boon
Shanklin, Lowell F .
Sheridan, Elmer McCaekey
8Joan, Harry
Sloan, James
Smith, Jamee Henry
Smith, Walter Robert, P. M.
Spanne, Nis Lauritzen
Spicer, Charles A.
Starr, Edward Bean
Stewart, John Horace
Stewart, Walter Arthur
Sudden, Robert E.

ROSTER
'falbot, (..;nester Hartt
Talbot, William Lyman
'l'albot, John Lloyd
Talliday, Jerome W.
Thompson, John Henry
Tucker, Cyrus Milburn, P. M .
Wallin, William Henry

Weill, Armond Charles
Weill, Maier W.
Wilkins, Edwin Chester, P. M.
Whittemore, Amoe C., P. M.
Wigen, Wilson B.
Wright, Irwin
Wright, Walter Scott
-110

WITHDRAWN:
Pittman, William H.
DIED:
Truitt, Daniel Tingle

HESPERIAN LODGE, No. 264.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Mark Holgate Whitney, Master,
Lorenzo Waugh Blosser, Chaplain,
Santa Maria, Cal.
Raymond Frederick Holser, S. Deac.,
Albert Muro Parker, Se11. Warden, Garth Henry Harington, / . Deacon,
Walter DeWitt Cannon, J. Warden, Manuel Francisco Pires, Marshal,
Leopold Pio Scaroni, Treasurer,
George David Ringo, Steward,
Osmond P . Paulding, Secretary
Ethan Allen Grisham, Steward,
Santa Maria, Cal.
Mortimer Lafayette McGuire, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abels, Henry John, P. M.
Bradley, Charles
Allen, Oliver 0.
Bradley, James Fred 'k.
Alverado, William Pablo
Brown, Arthur Lee
Armstrong, Charles U.
Brown, Chae. Benj.
Bagby, Henry Clay, P. M.
Brown, George Gilbert
Baker, Frederick Arthur
Brown, Robert Walker, P. M.
Baker, Major P.
Button, Burnell De Witt
Bell, Joseph Ross
Bussell, Mark Rainey
Black, Ernest Cecil
Cannon, Walter Dewitt
Bloeser, Elbert Eldridge, P. M.
Chadsey, Robert Morrison
Blosser, Garrett Lorenzo
Chandler, Lafayette F.
Blosser, Lorenzo Waugh
Chester, George Henry
Bonetti, John Baptista
Coblentz, Lambert B, P. M.
Boyd, John
Coiner, Samuel Taney
Boyd, Thomas
Coker, Francis Marion

424

:ROSTER

Coleman, Earl Roy
Colvin, Lewis Llewelleon
Cope, James Ernest
Cost, August
Craighill, Ernest James
Crow, Samuel Eugene
Cuff, Charles Armstrong
Culp, William Woods
Davis, Bernard
Davis, Dallas Denver
Davis, William Frank
Doane, George Mason
Dobson, Ed Green
Dudley, Albert Allen, P. M.
Dutcher, Charles B.
Eames, Abraham Lincoln
Earl, Fred Emmett
Earl, Robert Wesley, P. M.
Easton, Robert Eastman
Elliott, George
Elliott, James William
Evans, Oscar Elmo
Ebel, Julius
Fesler, Stephen Arnold
Fesler, Sterling Oliver
Fillius, Ralph Rolland
Finley, Theo. Randolph, P. M.
Fleisher, Marks, P. M.
Fleisher, Samuel, P. M.
Fox, Llewellyn Lawrence
Freiley, William Ellmore
Froom, Acel Harvey
Gardner, Charles Virgil
Garrett, Joseph Martin
Gates, Franklin Henry
Gingrich, James ·
Glines, Robert Cassius
Goodchild, James W. Jr.
Goodwin, James Franklin, P. M.
Graham, Charles Emory
Granger, George Samuel
Grant, John W.
Grant, Robert Bruce
Gray, Robert James
Greve, Milton Francis

Grissham, Ethan Allen
Guthrie, Charles Marion
Hamilton, Frederick Robert
Hanline, Clarence Vincent
Harington, Garth Henry
Harpster, David Pyle
Hart, George Lawson
Hart, John
Hartly, ·James Benton
Haydon, John Harrison, P. M.
Heath, John Holloway
Hebbard, Francis Edward
Heller, Herman Alwin
Helvey, Alfred Allen
Hemingway, George
Herron, James Williamson, P. M.
Herring, Edward Lewis
Hickey, Abraham Lincoln
Hickman, Charles Dixon
Highers, Alwin Overton
Hobson, Clarence Jay
Holser, Raymond Frederick ·
Holt, Leon Cleveland
Hopkins, Wilber Louis
Hopper, Joel Leigh
Houk, John
Humphrey, Earl H.
Hurst, Willis Edward
James, Charles Edward
Jansen, Robert Christensen
Johnson, Charles Lent
Johnson, George Kay
Jones, Albert Rennaylds, P. M.
Jones, Henry Martin
.Tones, Warden S.
Kaiser, Joseph
Kelley, Hugh Sylvester
Kelley, William F.
Kimball, Henry W.
Kobloth, Julius
Kl'ohn, Henry Harrison
Lang, John
Lang, Mark
Lengfeld, Karl G. 0.
Lansing, Alonzo Paige

RO$T;ER

~

Lemley, Laf,ayette
Lemmon, Lester Lee
Libeu, John Babtiste
Lind, James Melche
Lindeman, Fred
Livingston, Charles Simon
Lockwood, Charles Henry
Lockwood, Joseph Gardner
Logan, J9hn Samuel
Logan, William Pleasant
Lo11-g, John Samuel
Lopez, Joseph Virgil
Lyons, 8amuel Harrison
Macdonald, William Grant
Mahoney, John Henry
Manchester, Floyd Richard
Martin, Charles LeRoy
Martin, John Howard
Mattei, Charles Rudolph
Mattei, Clarence Clayton
Mattei, Felix
Mccann, John Earl
McElbany, Cloyd Milton
McGuire, Mortimer Lafayette
McJunkin, Roy Lenard
McKee, Norman Ross
Miller, Isaac, Jr.
Miller, Wayne Anthony
Mitchell, Edgar Lillian
Moore, Harvey A.
Morgan, William Shelby
Murdock, Charles Wallace G.
Morris, Lewis Joseph, P. M.
Musico, Guiseppe
Nickson, Hubert William
Niverth, Stephen
Norris, John McNeil
Parker, Albert Mun,.o
Parrish, Ernest J.
Parraud, Antonio
Patterson, Addison Austin
Paulding, Ormond Pinkerton
Peterman, Joseph Lyonel
Pettit, J'esse William
• Petty, James R.

Pierce, Frank Ogdon
Pierce, William Anthony:
Ringo, George David
Pires, Manuel Francisco, P. M.
Pratt, Venerotia Taylor
Prell, John Gottlob
Priesker, Thomas Clayton
Reghetti, Elvizio
Heid, Albert James
Rice, John Tandy
Robertson, Hugh FTanklin, P. M.
Robeson, James Leland
Ross, Charles. Ferree
Saunders, John William
Sawyers, Wade Hampton, P. M.
Scaroni, Lepold Pio
Seeley, James Watt
Sepulveda, Frank Rosario
Sinsheimer, Samuel Charles
Smith, Frank Barton
Smith, James
Spalding, David Carter
Stephens, Howard Shannon
Stewart, Joseph Ross
Stowe, Dudley Dunning
Stowell, Henry Edgar
Strahan, William Calvin
Thompson, James Roderick
'fhornburg, Frank Leslie
'fhornburg, Madison, P. M.
Ti£:tzen, Paul Otto
Titley, Charles Birsh
Todd, Willard
Tre1tt, James Madison
Trott, Emmett Dee
Trumbull, William Washington
'l'unnell, Fred 'J!·.
Tunnell, George Robert
Tunnell, Henry Clay
Tunnell, William Hulbert, P. M.
Twitchell, Fremont C., P. M.
Van Lone, Walter Allan
Von Breyman, Geo. Edward
Walker, James
Walker, William Frederick

425

ROSTER

426

Whitney, Mark Holgate
Whitney, William Bruce
Whitcher, Maynard Daniel
Williams, Thomas Jeffreys
Wolfe, John Richard
Wright, Edward Anthony

Watterson, William
Webb, John William
W eilheimer, Alfred
Whitciher, Chas. Leslie
White, John Alton
Whitener, Raymond Charles

ROSTER
Hannah, I>avi1l
Harriger, George Washington
Hightower, Roy DeWitt
Holmes, Raleigh
Tglick, Samuel, P. M.
Kesselring, Emanuel Bentz
Kirkpatrick, Garfield Stanley
Koons, Stanley David
Lawton, Howard Mille
McCandlaes, Alfred Lewis
McClintock, John Porter
Mecum, Earl Horton
Mecum, Ira Edgar
Miller, Charles Douglas
Milner, Thomas
Monroe, Alfred Harold
Moore, Allen Earl
Moore, Allen Twinson, P. M.
Morrissey, Jamee Byron, P. M.
Morrissey, William Henry, P. M.
Murdock, Gawn Worth
Murdock, Robert Burns
Murdock, Stanley Worth, P. M.
Neilson, James
0 'Hair, Henry

-222

WITHDRAWN:
McMurray, Theodore Zelini
Mitchell, Watson Edward
Van Matre, Nelson B.

Brown, Marcellus
Hatfield, Guy D.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brannon, John K.
DIED:
Nanee, Thomas Clayton
Kennedy, Harry
Kennedy, Albert Peterson

ORLAND LODGE. No. 265.
Orland, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Bailey, Mark
Bancroft, George Mason
Bane, Paul Davis
Brown, David
Brown, De Arnold
Brown, Thomas, P. M.
Busey, Fred 'k. Lewis
Clark, Willard, P. M.
Clawson; Charles Wilson
Cleek, Jeb Stuart

- 70

DIED:
Kirkpatrick, Thomas J .

Roy O'Hair, Master,
Orland, Cal.
George Edgar Rawlins, S. W arde11,
Albert Edward Royce, Jun. Warden,
Frank Seymore Reager, Treasurer,
Samuel llick, Secretary,
Orland, Cal. ·
MEMBERH:
Conley, Joseph
Davis, . Charles J .
Drake, Thomas Benton
Ehorn, Eugene Michael
Ehorn, Joseph Evert
Ehorn, Samuel Fraley
Goldman, Samuel
Green, Etlward Elmer
Greenwood, Willis Adell,ert
Hamilton, John Cummins

O'Hair, Roy, P. M.
Papst, Albert
Papst, Ralph Rudolph
Rawlins, George Edgii.r
Reager, George Absolom
Reager, Frank Seymour
Reager, Louis Martin, P. M.
Roberts, Bruce Sheldon
Royce, Albert Edward
Skillman, James Michael
Spence, William Edward
Spencer, James W.
Steuben, Walter Robert
8utherland, John Emory
Thomae, John
Thomas, William Wesley
Utz, Adolph Albert
Utz, Gustave
Utz, Julius Marsh
Utz, Magnus Carl
Utz, William Henry
Waite, George Edward
Watkins, William Wallace
Winkler, Joseph S.
Wright, George Ephraim, P. M.

427

NORTH EAST LODGE, No. 266.

'

Fort Bidwell, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Fred Meyers, Master,
Edward Charles McConnaughy, S. D.
Fort Bidwell, Cal.
Phillip H . Truedt, Junior Deacon,
William James Verling, Sm. Ward., Francis Kastner Smith, Marshal,
Nathan Wade Snyder, Juii. Ward., Albert Longley Baty, Steward,
Henry Kober, Treasurer,
Edwin Randolph Tyeryar, Steward,
Charles Daniel Kafader, Secretary, George Christie Smith, Tyler.
Fort Bidwell, Cal.

428

ROST EB

MEMBERS:
Ayres, George Hamilton, P. M.
Kober, Henry, P. M.
Bailey, Oliver Eugene
Leithead, Charles E :, P. M.
Baty, Albert Longley
Lowell, Albert Carroll, P. M.
Baty, David Worn
McCombs, .Byron Francis
Brown, John
McConnaughy, Edward C., P. M.
Browne, Daniel Parish
McConnaughy, Robert Franklin
Bucher, Douglas
Messner, Fred .George
Burch, William Franklin
Meyers, Fred
Dodson, John
Moffitt, John
Ellis, James
Poor, Franklin Benj.
Fee, Charles Haven, P. M.
Raymond, Irving Clark
Flemming, ~heo. Mirten
Smith, Eber l)exter
Fordyce, George
Smith, Francis Kastner
Fulcher, Max.
Smith, George Christie
Snyder, Nathan Wade
Herrington, Jerry
Hickey, James Bartlett
Tonningsen, Asmus Frederick
Hunter, Hugh Alex.
Verling, William J.
Jacobs, Oliver Weller
Ward, Albert Smith
Kafader, Charles Daniel; P. M.
Williams, James
Kober, George. Martin,_ P. M.
.-39

ROSTER

j

429

Prouty, William Harrison
Rae, John Goodwilla
Sawyer, James C.
Sawyer, Tom John
Sawyer, Wallace Born
Shepard, Amor D.
Short, James Madison, P. M.
:::!mith, .Hunn Benford, P. M.
Smith, Charles Samuel
Stafford, Uhar lc8 Emil
Sullivan, Thomas Ernest
Whitaker, James
Wriston, Charles Ransom

Hartman, John
Henley, Elihu Shields, P. M.
Kennedy, K,enneth Clyde
King, William Isaac
Latourrette, Pandes H., P. M.
Lease, Charles Edward
Lewis, Samuel Amanzo
Lovett, Homer Schi11er
Madison, Benjamin
Marlin, Walter Henry
McC1aughry, Samuel C., P. M.
Merrell, Timothy S.
Morrison, Lebbius B.
Orvis, Joseph Lloyd

-39

DURANT LODGE, No. 268.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Isaac Don Bluxome, Master,
George Leonard; Chaplain,
Monadnock Bldg., S. F .
Elmer Ellsworth Myers, Sen. Deac.,
George Henry Richardson, S. Ward., Edward Lee Soule, Junior Deacon,
Walter Augustus Sloan, Jun. Ward., George William O'Brien, Marshal,
Francis Henry E . O'Donnell, Treas., Walter Wadsworth Bradley, Steward,
William Henry H. Gentry, Secretary, William Elbert Ashland, Steward,
P . 0. Box 175, Berkeley, Cal.
Barzillai P . Bull, Tyler.

GALT LODGE, No. 267.
Galt, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Bunn Bedford Smith, Master,
James Tilden Christian, Sen. Deacon,
Galt, Cal.
Charles Edward Leese, Junior Deac ..
Frank Albert Warren, Sen. Ward., Tiruoth.y S. Merrill, Marshal,
Walter Henry Marlin, Jun. Warden, Louis G. Baldwin, Steward,
Wallace B. Sawyer, Treasurer, .
William Julius Altnow, Steward,
Joseph Lloyd Orvis, Secretary,
Thomas M. Barnhardt, Tyler.
Galt, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Charles Campbell
Conley, James
Eichenberger, Frederick
Altnow, William Julius
~'razier, James Oscar, P. ?4.
Baldwin, Lewis Gardner, P. M.
Barnhart, Thomas M.
Gann, James Franklin
Gower, Ray Louis
Bolton, Curtis Arthur
Hagel, John
Conklin, William A.

I

1

MEMBERS:
Ashland, Wi11iam Elbert
Atthowe, Reginald
Atthowe, Wm. John
Backus, Watson Goodban
Baker, Barney P .
Barnes, Henry Humfrey
Barnes, John W. H.
Bartlett, George Clinton
Barton, John Edward
Beattie, John Wm. Cox
Becker, Johannes Paul
Berry, Rufus Albert
Berryman, Frederick Miles, P. M.

Acheson, William John
Adelseck, Edward
Adler, John Olaf
Albee, Marshall Pickney W., P. M.
Alberti, Frank Jackson
Allen, Charles Edward
Allyn, George Spencer
Andersen, .t\.ndrew
Anderson, Alfred
Anderson, William Walker, P. M.
Angell, Robert Algernon
Appleton, Wi11iam
Arlett, Arthur

{30

ROSTER

Berryman, John
Betts, Percy George
Biedenbach, Charles Louis, P. M.
Biehl, Philip Fred 'k Christian
Blanchard, Milton Eugene
Blank, Charles Alexanuer
Bliven, Ralph Wagener
Blohm, Charles Henry, P. M.
Bluxome, Isaac Don
Boag, Matthew Pettigrew
Bolles, Edward Grosvenor
Bolton, Adelbert Elwin
Booker, John Coakley L.
Bourke, Louis
Bowers, Jonas Irwin
Bowman, Benjamin Franklin
Bowring, Franklin
Bradley, John Samuel
Bradley, Walter Wadsworth
Branthaver, Daniel
Brecheen, Thomas Levin
Bretherton, Sidney Elliott
Bricker, Lorin H.
Bridgman, Edward Chnrles, P. M.
Bridgman, Harry William
Brown, George Chester
Browne, Alexis Leonidas
Bull, Barzillia P., P. M.
Burg, Edward John
Burg, Gustaf Frederick
Burnham, Carl Bridges
Burr, Richard Olcott
Bush, Robert Edward
Bush, Will Pratt
Caldecott, .John William
Caldecott, Thomas Eclwin
Cameron, William HaTry
Carter, Charles William
Chadbourne, Thomas Edgar
Chamberlain, Roland Lee
Chapman, Paul Edwin
Chase, John FTanklin
Chase, Thomas Henry
Chick, Guy Hyde
Chilcote, Gaylord Hammond

Church, Sidney Leroy
Christoph, Gustav
Clark, Ernest Brooks
Clark, Lemuel Seth
Clark, Thomas James
Clemensen, Edward
Cloudman, Harold Caldwell
Cloudman, Octavius King, P. M.
Coggins, Clifford Edmund
Coleman, William Seward, P. M.
Colmore, George Arthur
Connor, :rred Frank
Cooley, Arthur Stuart
Cooley, Frederick Allen
Cooper, William John
Cornish, Harry Louis
Creagmile, Thomas
Crow, Clarence Cross
Dakin, Clarence Casebolt
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd, Jr.
Daseking, Herman
Davie, David George
Deming, James Hervey
Donald, Frank Robert
Donaugh, Andrew Ormsby
Doolittle, Nelson Roseville
Dore, Cornelius William
Dowling, Daniel Edward
Dozier, Charles Thomasson
Drum, Will Pierpont
Dungan, Herbert Leo
Dunscomb, Charles Ell,worth
Durant, James Alvah
Durgin, Frank Ward
Durrell, George Gilman
Dyke, Louis Henry
Dykes, ;Benj. Currier
Dykes, Hugh Thomae
Edgar, Arthur
Edgar, Robert, P. M.
Edgar, Samuel
Edgar, William James
Elms, Charles Montgomery
Elwell, Frank_ David

ROBT EB
Emanuele, Geo. Frederick
Hampton, Joseph Charles
.h:sterly, Ward Be11jamin
Hanscom, Meldon Leroy
Etzel, Louis William
Haring, Clarence Melvin
Etzel, Theo. Christopher
Harms, Edward Theo.
Fabiansen, George Emil
Harroun, Philip Embury
Farrar, Joseph Teel
Hartley, Edwin
Farrar, Joseph Teel, Jr.
Hartley, Joseph Harlan
Farrar, Wendell Dale
Haseltine, Richard Snell
Fenander, Kaarlo
Hays, Thomas Abram
Ferrier, Franci1
Heans, Robert Gage
Finley, Dozier, P. M.
Heydorn, Harry Gerome
Finton, William Howard
Heywood, Charles Dingley
Foss, Martin
Higgins, Charles Hen:ry
Fouch, Albert, P. M.
Hill, William Lair
Fox, Michael Peter
Hiney, William
Frank, Frederick Sophus
Hiney, William Dodson
Franks, Henry Ernest
Holland, Frank Leonard
Fraser, Daniel McLeod
Holt, George Washington
}'razier, Silas Hen:ry, P. M.
Hopkins, William Hewes
Frey, Arthur Ferdinand
Huberich, Victor Hugo
Galloup, Henry Clay
Hueter, Ferdinand Edward
Gent:ry, Wm. Henry Harrison, P. M. Hughes, Alva Fish
George, Harry Eugene
Hunt, Clarence Melville
Geirrine, Charles Andre.w
Hunt, Philip M.
Gibb, Charles Leo
Hyde, Wm. Her11chel, Jr.
Gill, John
Ison, William, P. M.
Girard, Francis John
Jacobsen, Neill August
Godbold, John Henry
James, Chas. Herbert
Gompertz, Charles Felix
Jenness, Herbert Henri
Gompertz, Walter Alex., P. M.
.Jensep., Jens Peter
Goodburn, William Robert
Jensen, John Charle•, P. M.
Johnston, Charles·Edwnrd
Goss, Homer
Graber, Thomas Frederick
Jones, Herbert
Grigg, Thomas Monroe
Kelly, William Harris
Uregg, Uilbert
Kelsey, Clarence Early
Gregg, Wellington, Jr.
Kelsey, Frank Bayles
Greig, Robert, P. M.
Kelsey, Harrison Carlos
Greig, William Robert
Kelsey, John Edson
Griesche, Arthur James
Kerr, John Norman
Griesche, Gustave
Kiernlff, Thomas Cundell
Kilburn, Cleon
Griesche, Gustave Adolph, P. M.
Griesche, William Fred
Kirk, Miles Woolery
Griffith, David Joseph
Kittridge, Maurice' Cogswell
Haines, William Barre
Kline, George Washington
Hamlin, Terrel Lambert
Knowles, Wm. A. Lindley, P. M.

431

4::2

ROSTER

Metcalf, George Dickson, P. M.
Laird, Herbert Frank
Michaelis, Rudolph Frank
Lamb, Robert Boardman
Mikkelsen, Christian
Lansing, Henry Day
Mille, Philo
Lasell, Fred Norman
Mohr, Geor~e Lewis
Leale, Richard Andrew
Monges, Henry Babad, Jr.
Leonard, George, P. M.
Moran, William Chadwick
Lester, Jamee Rober~
Morrie, Moses
Lewin, Robert Allen
.Morris, Ozias Manly
Lindsay, Lionel
Morrison, Hugh Robert
Little, James Edwin
Moree, Clinton Ralza
Lockett, Albert
Mortimer, Frank Cogswell
Longnecker, Harry Ellsworth
Myers, Elmer Ellsworth
Lord, Carlos Reuben, P. M.
Mosher, James Walton
Lorenz, William Frederick
Naylor, Charles Murgatroyd
Love, Joseph Charles
Needham, William Gloss
MacCracken, Wm. Benjamin
Neiman, William Franklin
MacLennan, Mnlcolm C.
Neiman, Wm. Henry
Macomber, Benjamin
Nelson, Niles Harrington
Maddrill, John William
Newcomb, Ralph P . 0.
Maldondo, Fernando B.
Nichols, John Carroll
Marsellis, Ford
Niehaus, Edward Ernest
Marshall, Christopher Archibald
Nixon, Joseph Robert
Martin, John, P. M.
O'Brien, George William
Mason, Wm. MacPhereon
O 'Donnell, Francis Henry E., P. M.
Masters, Stuart Galbraith
Oxley, Arthur Verney
Mattern, George Alfred
Oxley, George Edmund, P. M.
Maydwell, Charles Allen
Parry, David Henry
McClain, Charles Joseph
Pattersen, Henry Robert
McClea ve, Thomas Crooke
Peake, Frederick Richard Graham
McQullough, ,John 8ummons1 Jr.
Pearce, Jackson Andrew
McDonald, Duncan F.
McGrew, Gifford Horace G., P. M. Perry, Wm. Stanton
.Petersen, Theo. Carl Wilhelm
McGrew, Jn.mes Bracken, P M.
Phillips, Rodney Forseth, Jr.
McEntyre, Dan Hugh
Phillips, W-;lton Josiah
McLean, Charles Henry
Pierce, Archie Burton
McMillan, William Danford
Popert, William Hoff
McNulty, Charles Raymond
Pntzker, Albin
McNulty, Harry James
Ralston, Robert Gordcm
McNulty, Jamee Monroe
Ramoni, Frederick Lewis
Meredith, Jamee Wash.
Randall, Henry Irwin
Merrall, Willard Henry
Rasmussen, Peter Nieb
Merrill, Clarence Sidney
Reece, Frederick Bennett
Merrill, Ralph Howard
Reed, Frell Elroy
Mesick, William Rundle
Reef, Henry Jacob
Mesow, Frank Herman

ROSTER
Reinhardt, George Frederick
Remond, Prudent
Rhodes, James Woodmanse
Richards, John William
Richardson, Friend William
Richardson, George Henry
Richter, Frederick Charles
Rice, Philip
Riegar, William
Roach, William Henry
Roberts, Don Mitchell
Robinson, Harrison Sidney
Rose, Burton Jamee, P. M.
Rowell, Hubert Nathan
Rowell, Joseph Arthur
Ruble, George Frank
Rudolph, John Charles
Runde, Christopher Henry George
Rutherford, Robert Ruecastle
Sanchez, Joseph Gordon
Saph, Augustus Valentine
Sawyer, Able Allen
Schmitz, Hugo
Schneider, George Louis
Schott, Walter Edgar
Schofield, Lynn Mason
Schroeder, Harry Charles
Schuldt, Emil George
Scotchler, Joseph Lincoln
Scott, George Arthur
Seaborn, Fred
Servis,- William· Ratcliff
Sharwood, William John
Sherman, Andrew Fairchild
Shirk, David Lawson
Shoecraft, Byron Nye
Shreve, Earl Owen
Shuman, John Franklin
Sill, Stephen Joseph
Simpson, Frank Wm.
Sittig, Edward John
Slack, Walter Keyes
Sloan, Walter Augustus
Smith, Arthur Maxson
28

Smith, Howard Murr3y
Smith, James Lumbert
Smith, Lovett Reynolds
Smith, Sterling Wallace
Solineky, Frank Joseph, Jr.
Soule, Edward Lee
Springer, Fred Foster
Springer, George Ernest
Squires, Harry James
Stamper, Alva Walker
Stephens, Alex. Hamilton
Stevenson, Thomas
Stewart, Robert
Stocking, Reuben Hurd
Stone, Jack Livings.ton
Stone, Marion Pierce, P. M.
Stover, Noble McMurry
Strother, Horace Feaguis
Stubenrauch, Arnold Valentine
t;uch, William Thomas
Swain, George
Swayne, Richard Barnard
Sykes, Joseph Smith
Taylor, Henry Willard
Thomas, Edmund Davies, P. M.
Thomae, Edmund John
Thomas, Joseph David
Thompson, Robert Crawford
Thomson, Robert
Thornton, Albert Warren
Thrall, Herbert Parsons
Threlkeld, Melville Calvert.
Tibbetts, .l<Tederiek Horace
Titus, Louis
Tobin, David Joseph
Todd, Frank Morton
Traub, Harry Louis
Van der Haas, Pieter .Adrianus H.
Van Wynen, Edward Alfred
Wadsworth, William Henry
Wagner, Ernest Albert
Wagner, Peter A.
Wall. George Samuel
Wallace, Fred William

433

ROSTER

435

ROSTER

434
Walsh, Edward Marion
Waste, Harry Lotis
Waste, William Harrison, P. M.
Waterman, Sylvanus Dexter
Watson, Henry Hugh
Webb, Christopher Clark
Webb, George Standish
Weeks, George Rufus
Weir, Robert John
Weir, William Kirkwood
Welden, David Ralph
Wentworth, Daniel Rodger
Westenberg, Charles Albert
Whalley, Thomas Williams
Wharff, William Hatch
Wheeler, William Henry
Whitham, John Hastings
Wiggin, Charles Edward

Wilcox, George L.
Wilkinson, Crayton Winsor
Williams, James Henry
Wilson, Gustaf Herman
Winham, Harry Granville
Winter, De
Wood, Alpheus Joel
Wood, Jacob Hanlin
Woolsey, Philip Sheridan
Woolsey, Wm. Edgar
Worden, Elisha Case
Wright, Harry .Manville
Wright, William Abourn
Wyman, J. Henry, P. M.
Young, Roy Jackson
Young, William Albert
Zehner, Harry Scott
-il!l

WITHDRAWN:
Johnson, Joseph Archibald McClrnHy
Bancroft, Charles Edwin
Mantz, Robert William
Gilbert, Charles Phelps
Newhall, Charles Abbott
DIED:

Dobbins, Hugh Hills
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Gottshall, Louis

Knowles, William Edward
Wanger, Gustav Adolph
Wise, James Hugh

OLIVE BRANCH LODGE, No. 269.
Tulare, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings third Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jam es Joseph Mitchell, Master,
Homer Harrison Hawkins, Chaplain,
Tulare, Cal.
Harry Howe Beckwith, Sen. Deacon,
DeWitt T'almage Frymire, S . Ward., Charles Stephen Eaton, fun . Deacon,
Oliver Clayton Rush, Jun . Warden, Joseph Glazebrook Nelson, Marshal,
Charles Ford Smithson, 'T reasurer, Ulysses Grant Cottle, Steward,
Frank Adelbert Ellsworth, Scc'ty., Harris Oberlin Chute, St<r&ard,
Tulare, Cal.
Albert Augustus Hall, T3•lrr.

MEMBERS:
Allen, Arthur Bailey
Fatting, Albert Walter
Allen, Joseph
Fothergill, William Alfred
Anderson, Frank Elliott
Fowler, Alonzo Tully
Anderson, James Morrow
Fraser, Alex.
Anderson, Harvey George
Fry, Angus Eugene
Anderson, Samuel Bard
Frymire, De Witt Talmage
Abercrombie, Louis Le Bon
Geiselhart, Karl Stephen
Bacigalupi, Theo.
Giannini, Frank
Beaver, Romanus Hess
Green, Francis Harrison
Beck, John Edwin
Hall, Albert Augustus
Beckwith, Harry Howo
Hall, Rozell Edwin
Hamilton, Alfred William
Bering, Robert Eugene
Harris, Gurdon Charles
Birkhead, John Nixon
.oiankenship, Paul
Hartley, Benjamin. Franklin
Blodgett, Thomas DeHaven
Hatch, Charles Melzer
Blythe, Samuel Allison
Hayes, Frank Penn
Boone, Thomas Lee
Haney, Lewis Joseph
Brock, Cecil Calvert, P. M.
Hawkins, Homer Harrison
Buehrer, Wm. Henry
Henry, Charles Alex.
Burnett, Clarence Martin
Higgins, William Alvey
Burnett, George Carter
Holford, Lyman David
Busby, Francis Marion
Hunsaker, Irvin Burton
Cartmill, Wooster Beach, P. M.
Hutchinson, Matthew Lee
Chenoweth, Benjamin William
Jarrard, Thomas Newton
Childs, Harmon Lake
Jones, Thomas Woodward
Chute, Harris Oberlin, P. M.
Kingsley, Lewis Edwin
Clarke, Robert Carrick
Lawler, James Thomas
Clifford, John Vincent
Lembke, August Joseph
Cottle, Melvin Green
Lewis, George Sheparu
Cottle, Ulysses Grant, P. M.
Lindsay, Alfred
Cross, Thomas
Martin, John
Davis, David Ernest
McMillan, Robert Thompson
Davis, James Winnard, P. M.
Meador, John
Dresser, Roland Henry
Mesler, Orlando Alexander
Dresser, Wm. Christopher
Miller, Christian
Dunlap, Wm. Evered
Mitchell, James .Joseph
Eaton, Chas. Stephen
Moore, James Samuel
Ellis, Frank Freeman
Moore, Stephen Bal<ly
Elwood, John Henderson
Neff, Andrew Daniel
Eldridge, Frank Marion
Nelson, Joseph Glazebrook, P. M.
Ellsworth, Frank A., P. M.
Newton, Elmer Wray
Evey, Charles Lee
Noyes, John Elmer
Ferguson, Granville Lewis
Nutting, David Wheeler

ROSTER

436

ROSTER

Slauson, Charles Taylor
Smith, Alvin William
Smith, Charles Leipt
Smithson, Charles Ford
Steininger, Edward Andrew
Thompson, Frank Adelbert
Thompson, Thomas Henkley
Thomson, Willis Merriman
Turner, Jesse Thomas
Warner, Joseph Henry
Wayne, Halcyon Cutting
Westfall, John Christopher
Whaley, Alexander
Whaley, Henry, P. M.
Whaley, Robert
Wheeler, Alex. Woodfall
Whitmore, George Francis
Williams, William Payne
Wilson, John Lewis
Woody, John' Harrison
Young, Robert James
Zartman, Geo. Washington, P. M.
-130
WITHDRAWN:
Bigham, Walter Lafayette
Hall, Anson Parson
Sprague, Charles Henry

Oakford, Edward
Odell, Robert Adelbert
Outhier, Ward Clifford
Pace, Henry Lee
Polley, Egbert Marion
Pratt, Clarence Francie
Premo, Walter Emile
Priest, Richard Turner
Ratliff, William Pierce, P. M.
Ray, Randolph
Richardson, Samuel
Rosenthal, Solomon H.
Roth, George Henry
Rumley, Albert Morton
Rush, Oliver Clayton
Russell, Calvin Louis, P. M.
Ryan, Elgie Jerome
Schoenemann, Charles Samuel
Schoenemann, Louis Emil
Sheppard, Thomas Armstrong
Shreve, Harry Marston
Shultz, Joseph Franklin

Alford, Benjamin Michael

DIED:
Fox, Joseph George

SNOW MOUNTAIN LODGE, No.

271.

Stony Ford, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Roy Lester Walkup, Master,
Rufus Gideon Stites, Chaplain,
Stony Ford, Cal.
George Thomas McGahan, S. Dcac.,
George Lemuel Mason, Sen. Ward., William Joshua Lovelady, J. Deac.,
Robert Henry Yearnshaw, J. Ward., David Porter Ray, Marshal,
Daniel Joseph Westapher, Treas., John Manor Morris, Steward,
Arthur Thomas Welton, Secretary, Frank Wadsworth Hickok, Steward,
Stony Ford, Cal.
Thomas Wesley Morris, Ty/et·.

437

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Charles
Moon, Alfred Sax
Barnes, George Pettis
Morrie, John Manor, P. M.
Barrett, Wade
Morris, Thomas Wesley
Burgett, Richard Sisk
Newton, George Calvin, P. M.
Burrows, Leo Leroy
Ray, David Porter
Sauber, Hulbert Herbert
Davis, Edward
Feuder, Johnson
Sites, John
Harlan, Christian Madison
Sites, William Franklin
Hickok, Frank Wadsworth
Stites, .John Fernando
Howar!l, Charles Benjamin
Stites, Rufus Gideon, P. M.
Howard, James Wesley
Stites, Samuel Edwin, P. M.
Lovelady, William Jo.ihua, P. M.
Walkup, Roy Lester
Mason, Geo. Lemuel
Welton, Arthur Thomas
Maupin, Jarrett
Westapher, Daniel Joseph
McGahan, George Thomas, P. M.
Yearnshaw, Robert Henry
McKaig, Wilbur Addison
-31

PASADENA LODGE, No.

272.

Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

Harold Grant Simpson, Master,
John Patton Hills, Chaplain,
Chamber of Commerce Building. ·Guy Emerson Halderman, S. Deac.,
William Frank Creller, Sen. Ward., Benjamin Harrison Swartz, J. Deac.,
Lucius Allen Parmele, Junior Ward., Charles Clifford Fuller, Marshal,
Sherman Washburn, Treamrer,
Leon Carly Brockway, Steward,
Henry Ramel, Secretary,
Kenneth Gardner Helsey, Steward,
Post Office.
George Rasmus Weaver, Tyler.

Ahlborn, Charles Harrey
Allen, Charles Emory
Allin, Charles Arthur
Allin, Thomas David
Almond, Andrew
Babbitt, Clarence Mason
Bailey, Victor William
Ballard, William Harrison
Balthasar, Curt Julius

MEMBERS:
Barnewolt, Henry Fred 'k Justus
Barnhart, Warren Earle
Bartlett, Louie Azel
Beregsasy, Julius
Bettes, Adoniram Monroe, P. M.
Binderheim, John Wm. Fred'k
Black, James Robert
Bland, Reginald
Bliss, Ashley

ROSTER

438

ROSTER

Bliss, Henry Frank
Blodgett, William Preston
Blow, Richard Tunstall
Boden, George Adam
Bogardus, John Crary, Jr.
Bonner, Lewis Henry
Boutelle, George Henry
Bowman, Robert Barkley
Hoynton, Willard Arnett
Bradway, Judson Hutchinson
Braman, Francis Loomis
.Brazelton, Noel
Breiner, John
Brenner, Frank Edward
Brewster, William Clarence
Bridges, Gilbert Lee
Briggs, Solon
Bristol, Albert Oliver
Bristol, Sidney Albert
Brockway, Leon Caryl
Brown, Charles Cowan
Brown, Luther Grinnell, P. M.
Brown, Patrick
Buchanan, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Buchanan, Frank Wilmer
Buchanan, .Terome Robinson
Bunnell, Clarence Udell
Bunnell, George Havila
Burnham, Frank Dwight
Hurt, James Frederick
Cadman, Arthur Bruce
Caffrey, William Witters
Case, Edmund W.
Charbonneau, .Tames :t:otique
Chynoweth, Henry William
Clark, Laureston Livingston
Clarke, James
Clifford, Arthur Miller
Coates, John
Coffman, Joshua St~vens
Cole, Galusha M.
Coleman, Theo.
Collis, George Watson
C'ongdon, Roscoe Paul, P. M.
Conger, Everett Lorentus

Conger, Howard Willis
Cook, Arthur Newell
Cook, Jhank William
Cook, William D.
Cooney, Thomas
Corbin, Fred
Corbin, James M.
Coryell, George R.
Coulston, John Bishop
Crane, Frank Le Roy
Creller, William Frank
Cruickshank, Falconer George
Cronkite, Henry Murray, P. M.
Crowell, Charles Frederick
Crowell, Weymouth
Crump, Edward Sisson
Cundy, William Albert
Davies, Edward William
Dawson, James Porter
Day, Charles Ambrose
Day, Clarence Parkman
DeHuff, Thomas Jefferson
Dickey, John Hugh
Dickson, Henry Leslie
Dodge, Albert
Dodge, John B.
Doolittle, Samuel Hosmer
Dorn, Joseph H.
Dorr, Charles Colby
Doud, William Manning
Dowle, Richard George
Drawbaugh, William
Dunn, William Henry
Dunsmoor, Albert Vandorus
Dwyer, William George
Edmondson, James, P. M.
Edwards, Albert Ernest_
Edwards, Simon Josiah
F.dwards, William Bryant
Eisenauer, Michel
Erickson, John
Ericksson, Olof Frederfok
Erusberger, Frank Armstrong
Fabian, Lionel John
Fansher, Samuel W eslcy

Farrington, Winfield Oscar
l!'erran<l, Philip Emile
Fielder, Charles William
Fiske, Harold Albert
Flavie, Christian Jacob
Fletcher, Frank Sylvester B.
Follett, Wallace
Folts, Herman Christian
Foye, Frank Alonzo
Frankel, Ben
Freeman, Oscar Otto, P. M.
Freeman, Lingard Clay
Frost, George Henry
Fuller, Charles Clifford
Funke, Edwin
Gammon, Ansel Elder
Gard, William Brant
Gardner, Charles Andrew, P. M.
Garwood, Harvey Honestus
George, Herbert Edmund
Germond, Edward Maurice
Gibbings, Percy Nicholas
Gibbings, Walter Richard, P. M.
Gibson, Lester Henry
Giddings, Lawson Henry
Giguette, Frank Albert
Graham, George Le Compte
Gray, Frank Benjamin
Greely, George Augustus
Greer, Lloyd Lowther
Gregory, Charles Pickett
Grimes, Charles
Hahn, Ed. Franklin
Halderman, Guy Emerson
Hall, John Herbert, P. M.
Hall, Mark Clay Smith
Hall, Peter
Halsted, John Franklin
Halsted, Richard Carlton
Hansen, Christian Martin
Hanson, Fred
Hanson, John
Harris, Frank Parks
Harris, Isaac
Harris, Leon Milton

Hart, Merton
Hartshorn, Jonathan Thomae
Hartwell, Calvin, P. M.
Hartwell, John Lovekiu
Hauser, William Thomas
Hayes, Harvey James
Hayes, Orren Henry, P. M.
Heffner, Fred M.
Henderson, Norman W.
Herrmann, Louis
Hess, Bruce Stanley
Hickmore, John William
Hill, Alfred Julius
Hillis, John Patton
Hlavin, Louis
Hoag, Thomas Leggett
Rodding, Fred 'k Eustace
Hollander, Earle Munroe
Hollister, John I., Jr.
Holloway, Andrew
Holloway, George
Hoover, Geo. Elliott
Hoover, William F.
Hopper, Joseph Edward
Hopping, Wm. Osborn
Horrell, John Alexander
Hotaling, Henry C.
Hough, William Hall
Houseman, John Teris
Hovey, Frederick V.
Hughes, Charles
Hughes, James Barr
Hundrup, John Peter
Hupfer, George Philip, P. M.
Ingalls, George Robie
Israel, Joseph
Ives, Hubert Frank
Jarvis, Lucius Emerson
Johnson, Albert Ezekiel
Johnson, Jim Ned
Johnson, William Arthur
Jones, Frank Ralph
Jones, George Danforth
Jones, Horace Bushnell
Jones, Lucien Corydon

439

440

ROSTER

ROSTER

Jones, William Asbury
Jung, John Frederick
Katzung, Francis Marion
Kelsey, Kenneth Gardner
Kennan, Robert Case
Kieft, William
Kiehl, Roy C.
Kihm, Joseph Phillip
King, Charles Lee
Kittre!Je, I.Ioyd Humphrey
Kitzman, Roy Frederick
Kfock, Aaron Robert
Knapp, Howard Lee
Kuder, George Franklin
Kuhn, Henry Gustave
Kyte, John M.
Lancaster, Edgar Freemont
Lancaster, Thomas Morgan
Lane, David Courtney
Laspada, Joseph
Layne, William Robert
Leach, George A.
Lee, James Longbotham
·•
Leech, Charles Holt
Leith, Leslie Wilkinson
Lewis, Burnard Allen
Livingston, Benjamin
Lowman, Zachariah Henry
Lusby, John Randolph
Manning, Charles Dewey
Manning, Frank Robert
March, James Nelson
Margeson, William Fred
Marlowe, Thomas Clarence
Marsh, Norman Foote
McClelland, William
Mccreadie, Charles William
McCune, Floyd Gienn
McDonald, John
McDowell, James Nelson
McDowell, Robert Snyder
McGregory, William Whitney
McKay, John
McKesson, Lewis Robertson
McPherson, James Cullen

Meacham, Albert
Mercer, Albert, P. M.
Metcalf, Richard Lee, P. M.
Meyer, Henry William
Michener, Edwin
Middleton, Harry Lewis
Milholland, Herbert Clinton
Miller, Harold Lester
Miller, Rollin Hurlburt
Miller, William Everett
Mills, Cyrus Lincoln
Moody, Charles. Bates
Moody, Elmer Isaac, P. M.
Morrison, Charles James
Morrow, "Walter
Moulton, Alfre<l White
Muller, Wm. Clarence
Munroe, John Wm.
Murrell, William James
Myers, Charles K.
Myers,· Harry Eugene
Nay, Earl Warren, P. M.
Nay, Edward Oscar, P. M.
Newell, Harley Foster
Newman, George Weller
Nickerson, Herman Mansfield
Nosworthy, William Samuel
Nuss, William Henry
Nutt, Harry Bales
Ogan, Frank Clarence
Ogier, Walter William
Packard, Elmer Charles
Packard, Harry Tillson
Paine, George Albert
Paine, Robert Edward
Pardee, Floyd Glenn
Park, Herman Earl
Parker, David Niles
Parker, Jamee Edward
Parmele, Lucius Allen
Pashgian, John ~arkis
Payne, George Orlando
Paynter, Harkless
Pearson, Charles James
Pearson, George William

,'

Peaslee, John
Peek, Harry Graham
Peters, David Akard
Peters, Robert Edmond Lee
Pinkham, Robie Leamon
Plant, John Henry
Perter, }'rancis H.
Proctor, Thomas Hatch
Proffer, George
Proudfoot, Robert
Pursell, Marion Weimer
Quast, Herman Theo.
Raftery, Michael Loftus
Ramel, Henry, P. M.
Rapp, Elmer Michael
Raynesford, Frank Lester
Ream, Frank Pattison
Reeves, William Henry, Jr.
Reynolds, Isaac Julian
Rice, Peter P., P. M.
Richardson, Warren Josiah
Rickard, Henry Beeman
Ritter, .fohn Mathias
Roberts, Arthur Graham
Robinson, Andrew Steen
Robinson, Frank Cornelius
Robinson, William John
Robmson, '\Villiam Tates
Roche, Albert Wilson
Rogers, Wilmer Winthrop
Rood, John Thompson
Roop, Clayborn Terry
Royce, Edward Horace
Rust, John Charles
Rutan, Harry D.
Sandham, Frederick, P. M.
Scherer, George
Schiller, ()has. Henry Oswald
Schneider, William Charles
Schoeller, Henry Lewis
Scott, Calvin Luther
Seabury, John E ..
Seaman, William W.
Sewall, Spencer Kirby
Sharp, Frank

Shaw, Albert
Shelhamer, Clarence Albert
Short, James Curtis
Shoupe, Charles Wilbert
Simpson, Harold Grant
Simpson, Harry Emerson
Sisson, John Francis
Smith, Willis Hayes
Smiley, Sumner Francis
Sm1loy, Walter Carl
Snoddy, Jesse Edwin
Snudden, William Henry
Spencer, Alvah Jacob
Stanham, Allan George
Stanley, Charles Newton
Starrett, Robert Henry
Steil, Peter
Steinman, Earl True
Stevens, Arthur Bush
Stevens, Charles Warren
Steven·s, Grant Harrison
Stevenson, John Speer
Stickney, William Malcolm
Stiver, Arthur Edward
Stokes, Frank
Stone, Leonard Allison
Stooksberry, Dakota Chas.
Strang, John Ryal
Street, Alvin Clyde
Sutliff, Virgil Renaldo
Sutton, Edwar d Riley
Swartz, Benj. Harrison
Swartzbaugh, John Cleveland
Taylor, Lewis Richard, P. M.
Taylor, William D.
Taynor, David Silas
'l'homas, Cyrus Backus
Thomas, Joseph Andrew, Jr.
Thompson, James Hamilton
Thomson, Henry Martin
·Thoms, Alfred
Thurston, Albert Greene
Ticknor, Harry Montford
Tom, George Marion
Treptow, Paul Theodore

441

442

ROSTER

Tracy, James Dawson, P. M.
Turbett, Albert Steel
Turk, John
'furner, William D.
Tuttle, Henry Elihu
Tyler, Eckford Dodds
Underwood, Francis Marion
Vail, David
Y edder, William Henry
Yes per, Arthur Eugene
Vlier, Benjamin
Wadhams, Joseph Francis
Wadsworth, Hiram Warren
Wagner, John George
·
Wakeley, William Henry
Walton, Frank
\Vard, Charles
Washburn, Sherman
Weaver, George Rasmas
Webster, Charles Townsend
Welsh, Joseph
West, Frank Squires

Davis, Paul McDonald

White, Edwin Matelan.l
White, James Strothard
Wilcox, Heziekiah
Wilson, John Irwin
Windham, William Spencer
Withall, Sidney
Wood, Almon
Wood, Bertram Glendive
Wood, Isaac Newton
Wood, Ralph George
Wood, William Henry
Woodard, Charles Churchill
Woodruff, Char les Hunt
Woodworth, Wendell Albert
Woolen, William Amos
Wright, Austin Charles
Wright, Russell Clifford
Wright, Walter Savage
Yearian, Carl Hayes
Yohn, Charles Clayton
Young, Frank Nathan

DIED:
Menning, Charles Edward
Taylor, Richard

443

ANCHOR LODGE, No. 273.
Compton, Los ADgeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Wilfred Musselman, Master, Harry Gillingham, Chaplain,
Compton, Cal.
Frank Boal Hyatt, Senior Deacoti,
Edward Marcdlus James, Sr. Ward., Ralph Eugene Kincaid, Ju11. Deacot1,
James William Stone, Junior U'ard., George Hebern Palmer, Marshal,
Elmer Elsworth Elliott, Treasurer, Allan Thompson, Steward,
Clarence Anson Dickison, Secretar·y, Fred Sloman, Ste-&ard,
Compton, Cal.
Henry E. Mangold, T~»ler.

-42_1

WITHDRAWN:
Bliss, Guy Stanley
McAdam, Robert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Ellsworth, Herbert Lee
McLachlan, James
Jt'orbes, George Lewis
luetcalf, Carl Ostrom
1''rary, Frank Luman
Osborne, Edward Sylvester
.Tames, Edmund Storrer
Rush, George Phillip
Kienly, George Edward
Tracy, Coyle John
Killgore, Albert Russell
Week, Charles Erastus
Masters, Moses Marion
Woodbury, Elmer Franklin

J<'raser, Jefferson Carvaso

ROST EB

•.

MEMBERS:
Amlin, John L.
J a:cobs, John Franklin
Atchison, Joseph Andrew
James, Edward Marcellus
Kincaid, Ralph Eugene
Bird, Abraham Calvin
Briggs, Robert Redman
Larew, James Alex.
Leak, Francis A.
Brownsteim, William
Burris, John Oliver, P. M.
Lewis, Harry
Lord, Alex. Napoleon
Camp, Arthur James
Martin, Peter P.
Catey, George Washington
Mayo, Harmon Jefferson, P. M.
Conklin, John Raymon.I
Mayo, James Monroe
Copeland, John Charles
Cox, Robert Lee
Mayo, Thomas Clay
Mayo, William Riley
Crum, Dwight Mark, P. M.
Mealey, King
Daetweiler, Lewis
Davis, William Seymour
Mercer, Preston Reese, P. M.
Miller, Alvin Washington
Decker, John
Miller, Erwin
Dickison, Clarence Anson, P. M.
Mitchell, Leroy Frye
Dimmler, ·Joseph Henry, P. M .
Morton, John Jay, P. M.
•
Duke, James M.
Musselman, Charles Wilfred
Edwards, Wright Watson
Neel, Roscoe Clark
Elliott, Elmer Ellsworth, P . M .
North, Robert Adolph
Gillingham, Harry
Norton, John Bryant, P. M.
Gray, Carl Wm.
Oates, James Albert
Gunby, Edward Smith
Palmer, George Hebern
Haskin, Ralph Courtland
Preston, Lyman
Haynes, Emmett Sylvester
Proctor, James Buchanan
Holcombe, Arthur Lowell
Rennolds, Isaac Johnson, P. M.
Hyatt, Frank Boal
Rickman, Elvin
Iftiger, H ugo Julius
Schildwachter, Frederick D.
Imbler, Walter Webster

444

ROSTER

Schildwachter, George Henry
8hamrak, William
Stahl, William
Stone, James William
Towne, Zera Asher

1+'rew, Will L.

Vance, James Joseph
Williams, Herbert Uhester
Williams, Howard Newton
Williams, Justus Herbert

ROSTER

-68

WITHDRAWN:
Rickman, Thomas Merritt

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burritt, Charles L.
Zadach, Gustave A.
DIED:
Trodd, Frederick

ARROYO LOPGE, No. 274.
Arroyo Grande, San Luis Obispo County.

Morris, William Austin
Munger, Clarence Hayes
Nicholson, John R.
Noble, Clare Shipman, P. M.
Parrish, John Edgar
Phillips, Adolph
Phillips, Samuel Sampson
Phoenix, Fred James
Plympton, Robert Monrce
Poole, James

Poole, William Clar:Quaresma, Antonio Silva
Reinike, John Ralph
Righetti, Henry F.
Scharer, Edward A.
Schwab, John C.
Short, Benjamin English
Silva, William
Squires, Clement C.
Taylor, Albion McLean

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kinney, John Seth

OAKDALE LODGE, No. 275.
Oakdale, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

8tated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceuing Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Siegfried
Ball, Jessie Combs
Bakl!man, George Augustus
Banks, Elwin James
Beckett, John Archer
Beckett, Lemuel James
Bickell, Allan Leslie, P. M.
Brieger, Adolph
Brown, Adam, P. M.
Clark, Charles Sammis
Cook, Robert Mahlon
Conrad, Francis Howard
Conrad, William Arthur
Denham, Clarence Freemont, P. M.
Denham, Maurice
Dower, William Henry

(No Certificate.

Gale, DeWitt Clinton
Gilliam, John William
Goodin, Robert Lee, P. M.
Grieb, Ge.orge
Grimes, Robert A.
Hawkins, Arthur Leroy
Hawkins, Arthur Wheelock
Heinrich, Johannes Richard, P. M.
Ide, Bela Clinton, P. M.
Ide, George Pitt, P. M.
Jones, Elmore Delwin
Jones, Merle Mc Crary
Keown, Thomas H.
Linn, Howard M.
Miller, John Nicholas, P. M.
Morgan, James Depp

Barden, Charles H.
Bardo, Levi
Barnett, Derby Hutchington
Benson, Robert Gray
Bentley, George Jefferson
Bentley, Ison Hilliard
Blankenship, Irwin Gladstone
Boddy, Wright Shovleton
Booth, James Godfrey
Broughton, James Richard
Bratten, Thomas Wilson
Carson, Thomas Masilina
Clark, F.lmer Ray
Clark, John Henry
Coley, John Ambrose
Collins, George William
Crabtree, Ebenezer Foster

MEMBERS:
Davidson Richard Breckinridge
Dorsey, Eppa Sydnor
Endicott, Elmer M.
Ferguson, John William
Gilbert, Amos Lawrence
Gilbert, Irving Clarence
Gilbert, Lindley Dodge
Hall, William Solon
Hamilton, William Ellsworth
Haslacher, Alfred B.
Heiskell, Jefferson Davis
Hess, George Washington
Huston, Norman C.
Johns, Thomas Williams
Jones, Andrew Jackson
Jorgensen, Peter
Kahn, Joseph H.

445

-52

ROSTER

446
Laughlin, Francis William
Leclert, Sebastine Theo.
Lee, Darcey Edgar, P. M.
Leitch, Arthur Lee
Mann, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Martin. Frederick James
McKinlay, William
Myers, Frederick Henry
Myers, Sidney George
Mulroy, John Henry
Pfarr,· George Nicholas
Prouty, Joel Leople
Prouty, Lee Earl
Bickart, David, P. M.
Schmidt, Paul Frank

Stearns, Geo. Francis
Tandrow, Joseph
Thompson, James Goodwin
Travelli, Joseph
Tulloch, Earl Patterson
Wann, Silas M.
Weaver, Henry Edward
.
Westerman, Pleasant Bailey, P. M.
White, Howard C.
Wigley, George Washington
Wigley, Jefferson
Wood, Alonzo Thomas
Wood, Charles Calvin, F. I'd.
Woods, William Henry
Young, J. Aunley
-64

WITHDRAWN:
Hennemuth, John Lewis
DI~D:

Bentley, Richard Harrison

SELMA LODGE, No. 277.
Selma, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Robert Stammers, Master, John Wesley Taylor, Chaplai11,
John Jay Vanderburgh, Sen. Deacon,
Selma, Cal.
Senior Warden Ernest Claude Laughlin, Jun. Deac.,
W~j;~·~··:s~;d Gj~~~. Junior Warden: Parris Allen, Marshal,
Herman Joseph Lohman, Treasurer, James Harvey Eddy, Steward,
Mark Alvin Sawrie, Secretary,
Joel Thomas Gray, Steward,
Selma, Cal.
George William Russell, Tylel".

..

MEMBERS:
Albrecht, Albert
Allen, Amos Judah
Allen, George William
Allen, Parris, P. M.
Armstrong, James
Bachtold, Christian

Barnwell, Robert Wm.
Berry, Clarence Jesse
Bixler, Adam
Blackman, Charles Monroe
Borchers, Herman Henry
Bronson, Oscar Edward

ROSTER
Brown, Joshua W.
Byrne, Joseph B.
Cain, Jess~ Rennie
Carroll, Lewis Crawford
Cooper, Christian C.
Connacher, Clayton Le Roy
Cutler, Herbert Nelson
Cohn, Samuel
Cook, Henry Taylor
Cooke, William Rutledge
Cox, Jesse Sergent
Damron, George A.
Davies, John Foster
Dill, E. S.
Dorman, Herbert Orval
Drew, Fred, P. M.
Drew, George Freeman
Dusy, Chester, P. M.
Eddy, James H.
Edgar, Gilliam Taylor
Elliott, Charles Thomas
Emlet, Charles Wesley
Foulke, Edward Forrest
Gibbs, Roy Crittenden, P. M.
Glenn, Walter Boyd
Gray, Joel T.
Hinkson, Richard Summers, P. M.
Holcomb, Glyde Lafayette
Hoover, Preston P.
Horn, Thomas Ewell
Hough, Sylvanus Withrow
Howell, Lawson Joel
Hudson, Julian Wiley
Kilburn, Charles Menzo
Kraemer, Herman
Lambert, Charles Leslie
Lambert, Edward Frank
Laughlin, Ernest Claude
Levis, Edward Adolph
Lohman, Herman Joseph, P. M,
:Matlock, William
McConnell, Samuel J.
McDonald, Andrew Greenbery
Mitchell, ,Tames William, P. M.
Mitchell, John Lair, P. M.

Mitchell, Thomas Clark
Montgomery, James M.
Morris, Charles
Murray, Charles F.
Noble, Shelby Hampton
Pallidini, Benjamin Ronaldo
Peters, Henry Frank
Peterson, Elmer Christian
Phillips, George Benjamin
Poulsen, Edward
Pugh, Edward M.
Pugh, James Vercoe
Pugh, John S.
Robinson, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Rose, James ·Edwin
Rosenberger, Guy Walker
Russell, George William
Sawrie, Mark Alvin, P. M.
Schuwendt, Charles
Scott, George William
Shafer, William Herbdrt
Sherwood, Charles Henry
Skaggs, James A.
Smith, Albert Anderson
Sobaje, Garabed
Stammers, William Robert
Stammers, William Robert, Jr.
Stearns, Orville W.
Steinwand, Albert Rudolph
Steinwand, Oscar William
'faylor, John Wesley
Townsend, Eli Sheridan
Townsend, Isaac Mad
Turner, Theodore E.
Vanderburgh, John Jay, P. M.
Vincent, George Paul
Vincent, Manuel, P. M.
Wagner, James Daniel, P. M.
Wagner, James Holliday, P. M.
·wells, Hiram J.
Westover, Martin H., P. M.
Wild, Mount Clowd
Wiley, John L.
Williams, Fred H.
'Vithers, Lewis Breton

447

ROSTER

ROSTER

448

Wood, Charles Robert, P. M.
Wootan, John Thomas
Wright, Flavius Jacob

Bicknell, Frederick Thompson
Biehl, Nicholas
Bierlein, Frederick George
Bilicke, Albert Clay
Billington, Theophilus
Blaisdell, Mylon John
Blakeley, James Oscar
Bleecker, Henry Lloyd
Bloeser, John Condit
Blohm, John
Bon:filio, Nicholas
Boone, Andrew Jackson
Boone, Blair Ford
Booth, Franklin
Booth, Willis Holyoake
Boothe, Stephen Sterling
Bordner, Isaac
Boshyshell, Edward Parris
Bosler, Thompson, P. M.
Bostwick, Rubert Fay
Boucher, Joseph
Bowen, John Wesley
Bowker, Walter King
Boynton, Fred Wesley
Bradbeer, James Hudson
Braly, Harold Hyde
Braly, John Hyde
Brauer, Adolph Karl
Brent, Edward Jamee
Brink, John Edward
Bristol, Frank Osborn
Brock, George Alexander
Brode, Alex. Charles
Brode, Walter Charles
Bronson, Roy DeWitt
Brookman, Arthur, P. M.
Brown, Fred Winfield
Brown, Henry Lee
Brown, Walter Elbridge
Bryant, Norman Lorenzo
Bryon, David Parker
Bryson, Charles William
Bryson, Frank
Buchanan, Charles Foster

Wright, Jacob Henry
Yost, William Antone

-107

DIED:
Burton, Camilus N.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 278.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Caleb Amos Yarnell, Mast rr,
Charles Cartlic'.1 Wyatt, Chaplain,
Hall of Records, Los Angeles.
Herbert Ross Kells, S e11. Deacon,
William Henry Harrison, S. Ward., Cyr~s William Grant, !u11. Deacon,
Robert Harold Bacon, Jun . Ward., Harry Meikle Jack, Marshal,
Robert Wankowski, Treasurer,
Ewald Edward Selph, Steward,
W arren Edward Rowley, Secretary, Allan Horton Spencer, Steward,
Masonic Temple, Les Angeles.
Adolph J. Maas (of Mizpah No. 378),
Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Adelbert Starr, P. M.
Abbott, Frederick William
Adams, Hugh White, Jr.
Ainsworth, Frank Kenley
Allen, Dane Lorenzo
Alles, Fred Lind
Amend, William Ambrose
Anderson, Charles Sherman, P. M.
Anderson, William John
Andrews, Chas. Gordon
Archer, Allan Thurman
Armstrong, George
Arnold, Jesse Houston
Arnold, William Ralph
Ashton, Charles
Aufclemkamp, Henry
Austin, John Comeby Wilson
Bacon, Robert Harold
Bagley, Arthur Eugene
Bailie, Samuel Girvin

Baird, William Smillie
Baker, Charles Minton
Baker, Fred Linnel
Baldwin, Cornelius Vanoy
Baldwin, George Everett
Balsbaugh, Hiram Whewell
Barlow, Walter Jarvis
Barnard, Frank Steele
Barnes, Cleveland Henry
Barnes, Frn:ik A mos
Barnes, Harvey Stevens
Barnwell, Walter Galt
Barton, Thomas William
Belcher, Henry Arthur
Benz, William
Berg, Christian Gottlieb
Bergen, John Grenville
Berger, Andrew S.
Bernhardt, Albert Martin
Bessing, Theo.

29

..

Bullard, Frank Dearborn
Bullis, William Shufelt
Bumiller, Arthur William
Bunnell, Charles Eugene Dewey
Burgwald, Hugo Mathias
Burnett, Frank Wilbur
Burns, John W.
Butler, Sidney Aleut
Butler, Sidney Tortelue
Uake, George Myers
Callahan, Walter
Callender, Harry Rea
Campbell, Charles
Campbell, Edward Franklin
Campbell, John Mis
Cannon, John Stevens
Carlson, Henry
Carr, Joseph Elmer
Cass, Alonzo Beecher
Case, Charles Hempstead
Catey, Stacey Francis
Chaffey, Andrew McCord
Chandler, Harry
Chappelear, Henry Stewart
Chase, Lucius Kurtz
Christopher, John Francis
Church, Benjamin Franklin
Clark, Harold Francis
Clark, Oliver Perry
Clarke, Frank Brainerd, Jr.
Clason, Carl Axel
Cleaver, John Mordecai
Cleaver, William
Coberly, Joseph Edward
Cochran, Robert Thomas
Cole, Elmer Ellsworth
Cole, Henry Edmond
Coleman, Albert Loring
Coleman, Robert William
Colton, George Fredric
Conant, George Frederick
Conklin, Will Hall
Conner, Edward Hurlbu~
Conner, Luther Lucien

449

450

ROSTER

ROSTER

Conrey, Nathaniel Parrish
Coomber, Henry William
Cooper, Alfred Sunley
Cooper, Frank J., P. M.
Copp, Andrew James, Jr.
Copp, Joseph Pettee
Copp, William Whipple
Cornish, Herbert Lemuel, P. M.
Corwin, Carl .Toseph
Corwin, Wm. Bassett
Coulter, Thomas Jefferson
Cox, Emit J.
Crabill, Simeon Wolford
Crandall, Shannon
Crist, Royal Herbert
Crozier, James Alexander
Culver, Alex. Stephens
Cummings, Bartholomew Peter
Cunningham, John Calvin
Curran, John Franklin
Currier, Edward Warren
Dahl, Christian James
Dake, George Daniel
Darling, Charles Edward
Daum, William Howard
Davids, Mark Abraham
Davidson, Paul Beck
Davis, Harvey
Davis, Webster
Day, James Anderson
Day, Robert Verne
Decker, Charles William
Da Garmo, Ellwood
De Nubila, Frank Mario
De Nubila. Rocco Carmen
Dennis, Albert Lee
Detmers, Frederick Wm. Adolph
Dickson, Clarence Bishop
Dillin, John
Dixon, Charles Clark
Doan, Joseph Beal
Dodge, Shailor Calver
Donnell, John Tilden
Dorris, Charles Wesley
Dow, Herbert Gruby

Dryer, George William
Duffie, John Jefferson
Duftill, Harry
Durkee, Lafayette
Dye.r , Trusten Polk, P. M.
Earle, Lucien
Eckstrom, Albert Axel
Edmonds, Glenn Denique
Edwards, John William
Edwards, Leoland Cloise
·Eichelberger, Harry Martin
Eikenbary, Sidney Joseph
Eisenmayer; Walter Graeser
Ellis, Henry Bertrand
Elsom, Robert Wesley
• Ely, Tayler Lewis
Emerson, Fred Lee
Emery, Robert Dudley
Ennis, Charles Wesley
Esdor, William Henry
Everett, Newton Baldwin
Fairehild, .Tohn Anthony
Falvella, John
Farnsworth, Willis Clcvelancl
Fenner, Fred Cooper
Ferbert, John C.
Fernalcl, Benjamin Walter
Ferris, Harvey Olmsted
Feuerborn, Edward Randolph
Field, Benjamin Franklin
Fiscus, Joseph
Fiscus, Marshall Elsworth
Fisher, Donnell George
Fitch, George Atkins, P. M.
Ford, Lewis Eugene
Forrester, Edmuncl Arnold
Forrester, Frank Linnaeus
Forrester, Fred Warren
Foshay, James A., P. G. M.
Fox, Harry Davis
Fox, Joseph Cliffe
Franklin, Edward Joseph
Fredericks, John Donovan
Freeby, Mordecai Paul
French, John Rollin

,

Friedgen, Harry Raymond
Froloff, Basil
Fryman, Harmon Christian
Fuller, William Harrison
Fulton, Frank
Fulton, Ira Marion Dudley
Gadden, Edward Tad
Getz, Henry Augu11tus
Geissler, Edward August
Gibson, Leo LaForeet
Gibson, Thomas
Gifford, Charles Levi
Gill, Carl Bruce
Gillespie, Mathew McGill
Goehring, John George
Golding, Frederick Earnest
Goodwin, Vernon
Gordon, Christopher McMath
Gordon, Frank Henry
Grag.g, Robert Fennally
Graham, Edward Hewitt
Granicher, Oswald
Grant, Cyrus William
Gray, Marion Robert
Green, Luther Herbert
Greene, Charles Gill
Greppin, Ernest Henry, P. M.
Grundy, Frederick
Gude, Albert Lawrence
Guy, Ivester Clark
Hagan, Ralph
Hagen, William
Hall, Cornelius Alfred
Halls, Gilbert Powrie
Hamlin, Fred Hanniable
Hammell, Delbert Cool
Hammond, Watts
Hammond, Wm. Tecumseh Sher.
Hanna, Harry Rogers
Hansbue, Harris Mathewson
Harlan, George, P. M.
Harris, Murray McCbeyne
Harrison, George Wright
Harrison, Henry Oziah
Harrison, William Henry

45i

Harshman, Alva Earl
Harvey, John
Haskell, Eugene Craddock
Hathaway, Uharles Frederick
Haupt, Paul
Havemann, William
Hayward, Henderson
Hazard, Geo. Emmott
Hazzard, Ira G.
Heber, Jamee Earle
Heffner, Robert Armstrong
Heinemann, Bernard Henry
Heller, Charles Clinton
Hench, William Allison
Henderson, Horace Hovey
Henderson, John Blanchard
Henderson, John William
Hensley, Sylvester Peter
Herron, Fred Irwin
Herron, Rufus Hills
Hess, Orlando Boyd
Hewes, Albert Stratton Leeds
Hicks, Walter Thomas
Hill, Randolph Willialll
Hillyard, Cassius Edward
Hinchcliffe, Chas. Warren
Hines, Fred Amoe, P. M.
Hirtz, Nathaniel Frederick
Hoagland, Wm. Wyckoff
Houge, Charles William
Hoffman, Marcus Irven
Holabird, Harry Gillette
Holliday, Wm. Harrison
Hollingsworth, Clarence Binford
Hollingsworth, William Irving
Holman, Claude Stonum
Hooper, Charles Edmon
Hornbeck, Charles, P. M.
Housh, William Harvey
Hovis, Harry Henderson
Hubbard, William Lewis, P. M.
Hum, James Winnard
Humphreys, Charles Harkness
Hunsaker, Lycurgus
Hunt, William Montague, Jr.

452
Hutchinson, }~dwin Herbert
Hyatt, Henry Lamb
Ingalese, Richard
Ives, Frederick Franklin
Jack, Harry Meikle
J ackins, Harry
Jacobsen, Christian Frederick
Jacobson, Frithiof Gustavous
Janeway, George Harold
Jeffries, Wm. J?arrish, P. M.
Jenkins, John Joseph
Johannsen, Fr3nklin George
Johnson, Edward Purnell
Johnston, Nobl" Ellis
Jones, Alanson Halden
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Frank Massie
Jones, Henry Spencer
Jones, John Taylor
Jones, Mark Gordon
Jones, Mattison Boyd
Jones, Richard Girard
Jones, Robert Freeman
Jordon, William Francis
Kardell, Benjamin Franklin
Keller, Will Edward
Kelly, Richard Wash.
Kells, Herbert Ross
Kelsey, Arthur Louis
Kenny, Robert Wolfenden
Kimberly, Charles Wallace
King, James Seaman
Kinney, Arthur Wilson
Kirkland, Derwentwater
Kitchen, George Washington
Kitchin, Philip
Kohlmeier, Benjamin
Koster, Eugene Will
Koyer, Arthur Sheppard
Kramer, Henry Jacob
Krueger, Charles George
Kubach, Christian John
Kunow, Charles August·
Kyte, George IrWin, P. M.
Laack, Arthur Hermann

ROSTER
Lamb, Porter Emerson
Lammert, Fred William
Langdon, Frederick Sylvester
Laughlin, Herbert Sisson
Laughlin, Homer, Jr.
Laux, Carl
Laws, William Henry
Ledbetter, William McKee
Lee, Bradner Wells
Lehman, Charles Joseph
Leonard, James Floyd
Lewis, Stanley Robert
Lindley, Hervey, P. M.
Lindley, Samuel Kingston
Lindley, Walter
Logan, George Burket
Long, James William, P. M.
Longyear, Willis Douglas
Lovett, William Watson, P. M.
Lowaley, Oswald Swinney
Luntly, Edwin Arthur
Lynch, Ira Owen
Lyon, Philip Henry
Macdonald, Donald
MacDonald, Jesse Juan
MacDouga1d, Alexander
Mackay, George Grant
MacKellar, William Malcolm
MacMaster, James
Macnab, Arthur Campbell
Macready, Benjamin
Maeder, William Richard
Major, George Jefferson
Malke, Edward James
Mallman, Leonard Herman
Malone, John
Manuel, Franklin F.
Marsh, Robert
Mart, James Jackson
Martin, Austin Oliver
Mason, Oliver Arland
Mathews, Bryant
Mathews, Frank Berry
Mathuss, Zack Duncan
Matson, Wilfred Hosford, Jr.

ROSTER

'

McAllister, William Thomas
McArthur, William Taylor
McBride, Oliver Edgar
McClurkin, William John
McCollough, Vernon Clare
Mccomas, Frederick Bernard
McDermott, Michael Jefferson
McFie, Maynard
Mcintosh, William P.
McKee, Milton
McLean, Daniel Alexander
McMillan, Basil James
McMinn, Robert Bruce
McMinn, William Wallace
McNeely, James Tho~as
Mead, Willis Howard
Medlar, James Abraham
Merrill, Joseph Lane
Merwin, Andrew Homer
Me11smore, Frank Hiram
Middlecoff, Walter Whitefield
Middleton, Ralph Dodsworth
Miles, Charles Sweeting
Miles, Nelson Appleton
Millar, David Servis
Millard, Jay Bird
Miller, Charles Francis
Miller, Frank Lee
Mitchell, George
Mitchell, John Shepard
Mitchell, Robert
Moiso, James Roy
Morgan, Charles Ford
Morgan, Franklin Llewellyn
Monlux, John B.
Monnette, Orra Eugene
Mott, Albert Clarke
Moultrie, Lloyd Walker
Mueller, Earl Walter, P. M.
Mueller, Oscar .Charles
Murphy, William Warren, P. M.
Murray, Alexander Wilson
Mushet, Edward Robert
Myrick, Nathaniel Willis
Nagel, George Edward

Nance, Benj. Franklin
Nauerth, Jacob
Neel, Wherry Elden
Nelles, Frederick Charles
Nelson, Arthur Julius
Nelson, Franz Otto
Neubauer, Frank
Newell, Henry Temple
Niven, William
Noble, George Oscar
Nourse, Charles Oren
Nutt, Edmund Beach
0 'Donnell, Thomas Arthur
Off, John William Arnold
0 'Reilly, Thomas William
Osborn, John
Osborne, Henry Zenas, P. M.
Ottis, George Marencius. .
Owen, Frank Dale
Owens, Madison Townsend, P. M.
Pahl,, Peter Christian Heinrich
Parker, Calvin Ebenezer
Parker, George Edmund
Parson, Loxley Rhees
Parsons, Arthur Cline
Parsons, Arthur Mervil
Pascoe, Thomas
Paulding, James Francis
Pauly, Edward Stanley
Pauly, Frederick Nye, P. M.
Peairs, Howard Allen
Pease, Sherman
Peck, Daniel Gager
Peckham, Charles Vassar
Percy, Harry Lord
Petty, James Millard
Pfaffinger, Frank Xavier
Pheiffer, Wm. John
Phillips, Lee Andrew
Phillips, William
Pierce, Darwin Willson
Pither, Ernest Edward
Plummer, Amos Weston
Potter, Charles Guy
Preston, William Holyoke

453

454

ROSTER

ROSTER

Prince, George Henry
Schoder, Howard Joseph
Probert, Frank Holman
Scott, Henry
Putnam, Charles Edward
Seager, Howard White
Rapp, William
Seaman, William WashingtOn, P. M.
Rayburn, Frederick Wallingford
Seeley, James Wesley
Raze, Arthur Eldridge
Selby, Lemuel Julian
Read, Harry Merton
Selph, Ewald Edward
Read, William Charles
Shaffer, George Bruce
Ready, Russell Wilbert
Shannon, William Alexander
Rebard, Eugene Mays
Sharpe, John
Rector, Robert Lee
Shaw, Lucien
Reed, Willie Johnson
Sherer, Edward T.
Renwick, George
Sherer, Henry Emanuel
Reppy, Roy Valentine
Sherman, Moses Hazeltine
Reynolds, Charles Frederick
Sherwood, William Franklin
Rice, Justus William
Shettler, Leon Thorp
Rice, Robert Lincoln
Shives, Alexander
Richardson, William Weise
Sinsabaugh, Simpson McC.
Richert, Arno Begin
Small, Frank Hartley, P. M.
Ridgway, 'l.'homas Caldwell
Smith, Charles A.
Rindge, ::lamuel Knight
Slnith, Conrad
Robbins, Albert Charles
Smith, Cornelius Emery
Robersnn, John Calhoun
Smith, Horace Osbun
Robertson, Ernest
Smith, Norman Eugene
Robinson, Ray D.
Smith, William Ferdinand
Rogers, Albert Clark
Smurr, John Randolph
Rommel, Edward David
Snead, James Emery
Roome, Adolphe Edward
Snyder,.Meredith Pinxton
Rounsavelle, Lafayette Small
Somnrindyck, George
Rowley, Edwin Silas
Spaulding, Frank Leverett
Rowley, Quintin John '
Spence, William Glenn
Rowley, Warren Edward, P. M.
Spencer, Allan Horton
Royse, Jeremy
Spencer, Edward Byron, P. M.
Rozell, David Rightmire
Spinks, Andrew Moseley
Ruddy, George Drake
Spinks, Moseley Enoch
Russell, Howard Marvin
Spinks, Wallace Humphrey
Ryus, Harmon David
Sproule, Isaac Henry
Sage, Orrin Grant
Spruance, Lewis J. Clauson
Sargent, Edwin William
Squire, Arthur Moseley
Scarborough, James Gustave, P. M. Stanley, Edwin Kimble
Scarborough, William Byron, P. M. Stanton, Joseph Leighton
Schaefer, Henry
Stanton, Le Roy Hamilton
Schleicher, Adolf Burgess
Starr, Joseph Lee
Schmidt, Edward
Starr, Stanley S.
Schneider, George Henry
Stephens, William

Stephens, William Dennison
Stern, David Samuel
Sternberg, Harold .Jay
Stetson, Albert L.
Stuart, Ralph
Stevens, Roy
Stewart, Victor Baldwin
Stilwell, Charles William
Stone, Kenneth Arnold
Strasburg, Edward
Summers, Jamee Alex.
Swaine, Edgar Lacy
Tate, Cyrus Francis Steele
Taylor, Arthur
Taylor, Horace Nople
Taylor, Nelson
Teed, Freeman Golding, P . M.
Tehen, John Theo.
Thomas, Roger Ray
Thomson, Robert Moseman
Thomllson, Chester Weaver
Thompson, Harry Oliver
Thompson, Omer Cones
Thorpe, Lewie Sanborn
Thorpe, Willard Gardner
Treen, Rupert de George
Trobeck, John August
Trueworthy, John Wesley
Truitt, William Lowry
Tungate, Mark Twain
Upright, Oscar
Urmston, John Keck
Vail, Nathan Russell
Vail, Walter Lennox
Valentine, William Lueas
Van Culin, 'frabue
Van Brunt, William
Van Doren, John Suydam
VanNorman, Edgar Vernon
Vaughn, John William
Veasey, Frank Burr
Vieira, George Joseph
Von Homeyer, Albert

•

455

Wade, Reuben Alex. Slavin
Wadhams, William .Jesse
Walker, Julius Randolph
Walker, Samuel Millard '
Walker, Vincent Leo.
Walrath, George Byron
Walton, Charles Strong
Wankoweki, Robert
Warden, Charles Dusten
Watson, George Samuel
Weaver, Vvilliam Kennedy
Webber, Charles Sumner
Weid, Otto Johannes Munk
Weller, Dana Reid, P. G. M.
Wetterauer, Andrew Peter J.
Whaley, Fra.ncis John
Wheeler, Edgar '!'rue
Wheeler, Horace Marcellus
White, Charles Henry
White, Jamee William
White, John Edward
Whittier, Mericos Hector
Wier, Charles
Wigmore, George Herbert
Wilkie, Ferdinand Starr
Willard, Charles Dwight
Williams, Albert Scudamore
Williams, Joseph Franklin
Wilson, Erasmus
Wilton, George Robert
Wood, Francis Gideon
Woodside, Calvin Elbridge
Woodward, William John
Worthington, 'l 'homas ,Jefferson
Wright, Gilbert Sol
Wuerker, Otto Leon
Yaeger, Carl Felix
Yarnell, Burton Fleming
Yarnell, Caleb Amos
Young, Jacob Clark
Young, John William
Zaiser, Lewis G.
:laiser, Oscar Henry
-664

ROSTER

ROSTER

456

•Anderson, Horace Philip
Johnston, John Milton
Lucke!, Louis
Markham, Monroe

WITHDRAWN:
8chaffer, Jacob
Shaw, Hartley
Tarr, Nathan Winship
Waddington, William

Alexander, Harrison Babcock
Bradish, A very .Tackson
Bundrem, Howard Graham
Cogswell, William ~ardncr
Haiser, Henry
Hawkinson, Oke William
Mercereau, John D.
Miller, Nicholas N.
Orme, Henry Sayre

DIED:
Patterson, Wilson Campbell
Pendell, Charles EliRha
Sale, Howard Malcolm
Schoder, Joseph
Smart, George Joseph
Snowden, Joshua Hazelrigg
Stanton, Erastus James
Starkweather, Charles Henry
Tomeney, Peter Patrick

•Rt.stored during the year.

HANFQRD LODGE, No. 279.
Hanford, Kings County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Samuel Vincent Hawley, Master,
Lewis C. Dunham, Chaplain,
Hanford, Cal.
D. Bunn Rea, Senior Deacon,
Loyd Harvey Brown, Sen. Ward., Archibald Dils Driver, Jun. Deac.,
Arthur Judson Young, Ju11. i-Varden, Samuel Whitson Hall, Marshal,
J ohn Welby Payton, Treasurer,
Elmer Frank Clute, Steward,
Walter James Moore, Secretary,
Rex Whitfield Ish, Steward,
Hanford, Cal.
Henry Edward Tyler, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Boudreau, Young Hubert
Ayers, Amos Melzar, P. M.
Bowden, James Richard
Bales, Payton Hamlin
Bowden, John Benjamin
Barney, Fred Milton
Brenton, Harry Vallejo
Barton, Herman Dany
Brown, Harry Pfister
Bernstein, William Francis
.Berthelsen, Berthe!
Brown, Lloyd Harvey
Brown, William Herbert
Bingham, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Blanchard, Nelson Covert
Bryans, William

Bullock, James Lyndon
Butler, Chester Orville
Butler, Rudolph Rey
Budinger, Philip Leidy
Chittenden, Lyman Sylvester
Chrisman, Archibald Yell
Clock, Loui!I David
Clow, Ora T.
(',ooper, Silas Halsey
Oosper, Elias Truman
Crawshaw, John Allen
Cross, Charles Marion
Crowell, Abner Buell
Crowell, Chester Charles
Crowell, Leo Calvin
Cunningham, Francis, P. M.
Davis, Isaac
Dillon, Thomas Fuller
Downing, Robert Jesse
Driver, Archibald Dils
Duffield, Benn
Dunham, Lewis C.
Edwards, Sherman
Ensign, James Curtis, P. M.
Farmer, Lyman Dwight
Foster, Ernest Charles
- Footer, Willett Budds
Fowler, George Oliver
Furby, Charles Edwin
Furby, Charles Edwin, Jr.
Furby, John Charles
Gilmore, Haymond Lee
Goodrich, George Edwin
Goldemith, Rutledge Loyd
Gregory, Roscoe Clay
~uiberson, James Warner
Guniee, Bruster Smith
Haist, Charles Augustus
Hall, John Ewell, P. M.
Hall, Samuel Whitson, P. M.
Hammond, Arthur F.
Hawley, Samuel Vincent
Heathcote, Rennie James
Henderson, Frederick Miner
Hendricks, Henry Thomas

4fi7

Herrod, John
Hickman, James Oscar
Hight, Frank Robert, P. M.
Hobler, Charles James
Hobson, Rufus Ashbery
Hochstrasser, Rudolf
Hord, Robert Thomas
Howard, William Harrison
Howland, Clarence Sears
Hoyt, Homer James
Hughes, James Lemuel
Hummell, Ernest ,John, P. M.
Isaac, Frederick Neville
Ish, Hex
James, Reuben Sterrett
Johns, Herbert Montrose
Johns, Zachariah David
Johnston, Robert Henry
Kelly, George ·Washington
K ing, Arthur Dale
King, Edgar B.
Kuney, Harry Albert
Lacey, Orra Mell
Lane, Alpheus Wilbour
Latimer, Delmar Hood, P. M.
Lee, William Thomas
Lens, Lodewyk Clement
Lewis, Benjamin Francis
Logan, Harry Britton Sandy
Ludwigs, Augnst Joahim
Manor, Lawrence Charles
Martin, Ernest Eastburn
McCord, James W.
McCord, William P.
McCreary, John Edward
McCreary, Robert Hunter
McQuiddy, Thos. Jefferson, P. M.
Moore, Walter James
Morgan, George Alfred
Mullen, Samuel Surltie
Murray, George Harvey
Murray, George W:iRhington
Nelson, Harold Mann
Newport, Fred Tate
Nielson, Alvin Elmo

ROSTER

458
Noel, Henry Hamlyn
Payton, John Welby, P. M.
Peery, John Thomas
Pickerill, Ernest Fred
Powell, James Henry
Pratt, Leonard Hope
Price, Albert Ruskin
Price, Alberto Bell, P. M.
Prins, Jan Cornelus
Raney, Arthur Leon
Raney, Sheldon Johnstone
Raney, Sumner
Rea, D. Bunn
Rea, John
Rehoefer, Samuel
Reuck, Henry Edward
Richards, Lewis Edmon
Rice, John Clarence
Ritchie, Isaac Andrew
Rogers, George Henry
Ross, Fred Darwin
Ross, John Patchen
Rosenberger, Schuyler Mont.
Sanborn, Walter Andrew
Saunders, Walter H.
Schueler, Harry John

Sensabaugh, John Samuel
Sharp, Benjamin V.
Sherzer, Simeon Newman
Smith, Judd
Steele, Francis John, P. M,
Stflwart, John Campbell
Sullivan, John Longwell, P. M.
Taylor, Julius Calisto
Thompson, Samuel Alexander
Tiffany, Charles Henry
Trewhitt, Loyd Crary, P. M.
Trewhitt, Wayne Douglass
Triplett, Calvin Chester
Wallace, Irwin Earle
Walp, James Lincoln Duff
Warnock, Horace Hampton
Webber, Richard Pemberty
Webster, Cassius Monroe
Weems, George Melvin, P. M.
Welch, Edwar<l Everett
White, Royal George
Wilkinson, Jesse Price
Wilson, Frank J.
Young, Arthur Judson
Young, John Weffley
-158

WITHDRAWN:
Farmer, Milton Thomas

Paul, Arthur
DIED:

Booker, Sanford

Charles, William Bryant
Hicks, Stephen Bright

ROSTER

459

MADERA LODGE, No. 280.
Madera, Madera County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William A. Brown, Master,
William Smith Conner, Sell. Deacon,
Madera, Cal.
Albert Craig Cunningham, J. Deac.,
Joseph Emory Newman, S. Warden, George Brown, Marshal,
Dow Harvey Ransom, Ju11. Warden, John Bryan High, Steward,
Return Roberts, Treasurer,
Percy Munroe Stafford, Steward,
William Henry Klingenberg, Sec.,
William Stahl, Tyler.
Madera, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Henry Clay
Hely, Levi St. John
Arondell, Ellsworth
High, John Bryan, P. M.
Barnett, John Robert
Hughes, Kenneth Leach
Bartman, George Henry
Hughes, William Marshall
Bernhard, George William, P. M. Hunter, Willie Wilkin Wood
Brown, George, P. M.
Hurry, Thomas Lyall
Brown, William A., P. M.
Johnston, Harold Gustave
Bundy, Pearl Mason
Jones, George Washington
Byars, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Jones, John Marion
Christiana, Albert Eustace
Klingenberg, Wm. Henry
Clark, George Adelbert, P. M.
Ladd, Monroe Jefferson
Cochrum, Spirling Young
Lehrfield, Moses David
Conner, William Smith
Leidig, Donald s.·
Cox, Elmer Henry
Leffel, James Garfield
Curran, James
Luttrell, George McClure
Daulton, John Francis
Manasse, Arthur Julius
Davis, James Lawrence, P. M.
Maze, William Camel
Dawson, Edgar Blasdel
Mccardle, Edwin Mace
Downey, William G.
McDonald, Archibald
Dwyer, John
McKee, John
Eastin, Pulaski Clark
McKenzie, Donald Cameron
Miller, Frederic Conrad
Eldridge,. George Ford
Munter, Harry
Francis, Jo.hn William
Frizelle, Seymour Reed
Newman, Joseph Emory
Fuller, John Wade
Owens, Samuel Gasiway
Galbreath, John William
Petty, Charles M.
Hargrove, Robert Lee, P. M.
Ramsey, Will Whitten
Haring, John Charles
Ransom, Don Harvey St. J.
Heavenrich, Arthur Willard
Richardson, John Royal

460

ROSTER

Riggin, Lewis George
Roberts, Frank P.
Roberts, John Griffith
Roberts, Return
Robison, Charles Byron
Rogers, William Gerald
Rosenthal, Nathan
Rummelsburg, Charles
Secara, Joseph A., P. M.
Skaggs, Samuel Lee
Sledge, Levin Lane
Sledge, Strudwick.
Speegle, Andrew Lee
Spitzer, Joseph James

Stafford, Percy Munroe
Stahl, William
Thurman, William Bloodworth
Tooker, Clinton Edward
Tully, Charles Fred
Walde, Henry
White, William Edmund
Williams, Elmer Boyce
Williams, William L.
Wolters, Edward David
Woodson, Guilford Leo
Woodson, Larue Jamison
Wooten, Elias Nelson
Wooten, George Drake
-86

WITHDRAWN:
Armstrong, Charles Dinner
SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Roeder, Ctiarles Henry

MOUNT SHASTA LODGE, No. 281.
Anderson, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Bainbridge, Clarence Edwin
Cassell, Ernest Vivian
Bedford, James Franklin, P. M.
Dales, George Benson
Bedford, William Wesley
Douglass, Torrence Samuel
Beecher, James Harvey
Downing, Erle Madison, P. M
Bell, Charles Arthur
Dozier, Alvin, P. M.
Bishop, Harvey Lincoln, P. M.
Dozier, John Dudley, P. M.
Blichfeldt, Fred Ernst
F:eld, Fred Seymour
Buckley, Jerry
Goodman, Charles Hiller
Burbank, Arthur Charles, P. M.
Goodman, Herbert Edward
Carter, Edward Guy
Goodman, Timothy D.

461

ROSTER
Hainline, Charles Grant
Hutchinson, John
Johnson, Harvey Petit
Johnson, George Metchem
Kallstead, Andrew Charles
Kempton, John Lincoln, P. M.
Kesler, Calvin Edmond
Kesler, John Calvin, P. M.
Landon, Francis Marion
Lindsey, Charles Beauford
Love, William
McNeill, William
Munter, Carl, P. M.
Noble, Owen Price

Peacock, Godrich Thomas
Peacock, Peter Alexander V.
Peterson, Charles David
Pleisch, Theodore
Reid, William
Shanahan, Thadeus W. H., P. M.
Shepherd, George Frederick, P. M.
Smith, Albert Ferdinand, P. M.
Spann, Charles Henry, P. M.
Story, Edwin Lee, P . M.
Strange, Morris
Tabler, Guy Clairmont
Tabler, Levi Jeptha
Weaver, William
-48

CALLAYOMI LODGE, No.

282.

Middletown, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Elmer Ellsworth Noyes, S en. Deacon,
Ralph P. Newcomb, }Jaster,
Paul Nelson, Junior Deaco1i,
Middletown, Cal.
Thomas Albert Read, Se11. Warden,
Lon McKelley, Junior Warden,
Joseph Lilburn Read, Treasurer,
John Bynum Preble, Secretary,
Middletown, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Nielson, John Ingerman
Bailey, Wellman Jenness, P. M.
Noyes, Elmer misworth
Bates, Warren Walter
Preble, John Bynum
Brookins, Robert Minor
Read, Joseph Lilburn
Cheney, Alonzo H.
RP.ad, Thomas Albert, P. M.
DeMartin John
Reed, Pliney Wilfred, P. M.
Fruits, George Arthur
Ryder, Irwing Lamphrey
Hawkins, George Giles
Reese, William Henry Clay
Henry, Charles Edwin
Robison, Perry Quint
Holt, Ole Kristian
Rocca, Andrew, P. M.
Kelly, John Melvin
Schwartz, Earnest William, P. M.
Koopman, John Charles, P. M.
Stoddard, Edward B.
Longley, Frank Beatty
Tully, Charles Henry
McKelley, Lon, P . M.
Vandewater, H. Clay, P. M.
McKinley, George Arthur, P. M.
-29
Nelson, Paul, P . M.

ROSTER

462

'WITHDRAWN:
Aby, Charles Wflliam
DIED:
Parrish, JameR

SOUTH WEST LODGE, No. 283.
National City, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Cicero Parsons Evans, Afaster,
Dale Smith, Chaplain,
National City, Cal.
August Henry Rosburg, Sen Deac.,
Warner Edmonds, Senior Warden, Joseph Kauz, Junior Deacon,
Frank Mitchell Chase, Jun. Warden, Charles Christopher Van D~r!pe, M .,
Warren Briggs Vaughn, Treasurer, Jerry O'Connell, Steward,
Edward Davis Dibble, Secretary,
Frederick ;Harry Wilde, Steward,
P. 0. Box 106, National City.
Phillip Hooper Evans, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Davis,, Emery W.
Dibble, Edward Davis
Doty, Fred English
Edmonds, Warner
Edmonds, Bishop Jacob
Eggleston, William
Evans, Cicero Parsons, P. M.
Evans, Phillip Hooper
Evans, Thomas J.
Farr, Loring Halliday Blake
Fly, Edward Munroe
Garrick, Samuel H.
Gatiss, Richard Edward
Gowan, Benjamin Spencer
Hale, Richard L.
Hampton, Henry Blaine
Harris, Charles R.
Henderson, David
Henderson, Walter James, P. M.
Hodges, Esau
Hodges, Jacob Greeneville

Addis, Ernest William
Adkisson, Baxter Kyle, P. M.
Arndt, Arthur Rudolph
Angelo, William Robert
Arnold, Arthur Mitcheltree
Ash, George L. H.
Atkins, Wellington B.
Bailey, James H.
Barnes, Lucius Bentley, P. M.
Beadle, Earl Wm.
Belcher, George
Bougher, Harry Ellsworth
Bragg, Arthur Virgil
Brown, Claude Walter
Burch, Arthur Griffin
Burnham, George
Burnham, James
Bushert, Acel Martin
Carter, Mark Orley
Chase, Frank Mitchell
Colburn, C. Ross

ROSTER .
Holderness, Ed. Page Granville
Ivers, John
Johnson, Leo. Garfield
Kimball, Augustus Brooks, P. M.
Kimball, Frank Augustus, P. M.
Kellogg, Frederick Roderick
Kendall, Joseph Masten
Kauz, Joseph
Kropf, Walter B.
Ladroot, Walter H.
Leibrick, George
Matthiessen, Albert Henry
Mizony, Paul Theophile
McDonald, Claud Victor
McNeill, Joseph Bowers
Miles, Frederick W.
Mullen, Orlando Alfred
Mygatt, Albert S.
Nat, Mansfield
Noyes, Oliver Clarence
O'Connell, Jerry
0Rborne, Elbrige F.
Owen, Carl Shuey
Palmer, Theodore Romayne
Pnttel"lon, Henry James
Phelre, Hulcy
RiRdon, Herbert Thomas

463

Pitman, Charles
Reed, ~'rank Pierce
Riggs, William Mallory
Robinson, William G.
Rouland, Neils Peter
Sawyer, Charles Henry
Seymour, John
Simpson, Claudine M.
Smith, Dale, P. M.
Smith, Geo. E.
Smith, Leonard E. C.
Snook, J. Curtis
Standish, Harry Asa
Strahl, David E.
Stran, Richard W.
Stuart, Charles Harry, P. M.
Tattersall, Frank M.
Thompson, David A.
Tingley, Charles Herbert
VanDeripe, Chas. Chris., P. M.
Vaughan, Warren Briggs, P. M.
Ward, Martin Luther, P. M.
Wigginton, James W.
Wilde, Samuel Morrison
Williamson, Samuel King, P. M.
Wright, James Howe

WITHDRAWN:
Felton, Wilson Kitterel
Priest, Charles H.
Porter, Robert Small
Wiley, Robert Charles
Yenawine, George Lafayette
DIED:
Ziegler, William

-95

ROSTER

464

ROSTER

SAN MIGUEL LODGE, No. 285.
San Miguel, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Forbes, Master,
Edward A. McGowan, Chaplain,
San Miguel, Cal.
Jaachin G. Weidemann, S. Deacon,
Herbert Hern Durham, S. ivarde11, John Work, Junior Deaco11,
Jalmar Haabesland, Ju11ior Warden, Frank Sitton, Marshal,
Lorenzo Dowell Murphey, Treas., Will Thompson, Steward,
Henry Twisselmann, Secretary,
Edward Joseph Wickstrom, Steward,
San Miguel, Cal.
John Thompson, Tyler.
Alverado, Manuel Francis
Andrews, George L., P. M.
Benton, Albert F.
Bergemann, Elmer G.
Betts, Charles H.
Bidwell, James S.
Blair, Charles Henry
Blechin, George
Boys, Henry Stanford
Bradbery, King
Braren, Olof
Brooks, Otto
Clark, Edgar Marvin
Cole, Oliver Port
Coyne, Martin
Day, John Adams
Decker, Perry S.
Densmore, Jason Fletcher
Douglas, Gerald Noel, P. M.
Douglas, Lewis D.
Durham, Herb~rt H.
Dunlap, Arthur Milton
Easton, Robert
Edrington, Edgar Wallaco
Forbes, Charles, P. M.
Forbes, James
Freeman, Rega Dent
Ganoung, Edwin
Green, Philip

MEMBERS:
Hennage, William Homer
Hunter, Byron Powell
Huston, John R.
Knights, Frederick
Landreth, Wilbur Ottis
Larson, Ludwig
Lightner, Edward Mills
Linderholm, Henry
Loose, August
Lynch, Henry Walter
McCandless, Lawrence, P. M.
McConnell, Gibson
McFaddin, Higgins
McGarvin, Marion Franklin
McGowan, Edward Allen
McQuoan, Henry Monroe
Mezter, Fred H.
Mohr, Henry
Murphy, Lorenzo Dowell, P. M.
Noggle, Dwight Keefer
Penfield, Guy Paul
Pinkerton, William
Pollard, J. T.
Rauschert, Henry George
Remington, Henry Charles
Rice, Geo. Washington
Richardson, John
Rougeot, Thomas Henry
Seaman, John Detlilf, P. M.

..

Spaulding, Alexander J.
Stanley, William Winfield
Taylor, Edwin
Thompson, John
Thompson, John William
Thralls, Arthur
Twissehpann, Henry
Ulrich, Burton Wesley
Victors, Henry

465

Wayland, Leo. L.
Webster, John Calvin
Weidemann, Jaachin G., P. M.
Weir, Casper J.
Weir, George
Williams, William Alfred
Williams, Thomas John
·work, John

DIED:
Horswill, Frederick A.

-75

PASO ROBLES LODGE, No. 286.
Paso Robles, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meeting3, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jo~e~h White Eddy, Master,
William Samuel Eddy, Sen. Deaco11,
Wilham Garfield Gates, S. Warden, Van Reid Elliott, J1mior Deacon,
Sanford Maxon Barber, J. Warden, Warren Clifford Bennett, ~Marshal,
F rank George Wetzel, Treas11rer,
Andrew Nelson, Steward,
Arthur James Beatty, Secretary,
Christen Anderson Iverson, Steward,
Paso Robles, Cal.
George Hill Bennett, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abernethy, Edward
Cassin, Richard Joseph
Anderson, Simon Peter
Coburn, Grant Hood
Ashe, Bowman Foster
Cohn, Lewis
Barber, Richard
Corcoran, Hugh J.
Beaty, Arthur Jamee
Cox, Ewell
Beggs, William Crow
Eddy, Joseph White, P. M.
Bennett, Edwin Montgomery
Eddy, William Samuel, P. M.
Bennett, George Hill
Elliott, Vandiver Reid
Bennett, Warren Clilford, P. M.
Eppinger, Herman, Jr.
Bickell, Cliff Ormond, P. M.
Frost, Edward Parker
Booth, Eugene Latimer
Fulwider, James Madison
Booth, Frank Johnson
Gates, William Garfield, P. M.
Booth, Fred George
Gerst, Michael
Brewer, Lyman
Grant, Adam Lucas
Brooks, Myron Holly, P. M.
Griswold, Eugene Carlton
Burk, John Mitchell
Grubbs, Earl D.
30

ROSTE!t

466

Hamilton, Geo. Washington, P. M.
Howard, Walter Hugh
Hedgpeth, William Rufus
Iversen, Andrew Hansen
Iversen, Christian Anderson
Jack, Albert LeForrest
J eseu p, Edgar Briggs
Monroe, John Reed
:Muckinetrom, Joseph Isidore
Neal, James W.
Nelson, Andrew
0 'Leary, Michael
Patriquin, Alex. George

ROSTER

Pierce, Benj. Bowlin
Poulsen, Jacobi
Seideman, Conrad
Shackelford, Rich11-rd Mathew
Sherman, Thaddeus, P. M.
Shupp, George A.
Steinbeck, Charles Minor
Tidrow, Joseph
Trussler, Charles James, P. M.
Van Wormer, Maurice Richards
Webster, Alexander
Wetzel, Frank George

•

-5i

EXPELLED:
MacDonald, Robert Carlton

'!'rue, Hanson William

DIED:
Weyer, Robert C.

WINNEDUMAH LODGE, No. 287.
Bishop, Inyo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Lucien Wells, Master,
Charles. George Lekham, Chaplain,
Bishop, Cal.
Walter Thomas Clark, Sen. Deacon,
George Alfred Bigelow, Seti. Ward., David Wendell Yandell, Jun. Deacon,
Clarence Hays Rhudy, Jun. Warden, George Alexander Clarke, Marshal,
Lazare Weill, Treasurer,
Henry 'f'artan Bush, Steward,
Will Arthur Chalfant, Secretary,
Horace Vernon Wotton, Steward,
Bishop, Cal.
Harvey Adams, Tyler.

Adams, Harvey
Albright, George Langton
Andrews, Frank Kellogg
Austin, Staft'ord Wallace
Bigelow, George Alfred
Bigelow, William
Boone, Clarence Elroy
Butler, Frank

MEMBERS:
Bruce, Douglas Robert
Bryson, George Lee
Bush, Henry Tartan
Cape, Henry Mitchell
Chalfant, Will Arthur
Clark, Ira Otis, P. M.
Clark, Ulysses Grant
Clark, Walter 'l'homas

467

Clarke, George Alexander, P. M.
McQueen, John Simpson
Clarke, John
Nelligan, Henry Parnell
Collett, James Bradford
Owen, Robert Dale
Collins, Albert Oscar, P. M.
Quayl~, Walter Osborne
Collins, Charles Albert
Rhudy, Clarence Hayes
Collins, Charles Raymond
Richel, Charles Arthur
Collins, George Kenneth
Robinson, Douglas
Colline, George
Romann, John Henry
Collins, John Leonidas
Rome, George
Corey, Manuel Igancio
Rose, Charles Norman
Doyle, Guy P., P. M.
Schiveley, Albert Duncan
Dunn, William Jamee
Shaw, Harry
Eldred, Winfield Scott
Shipley, William Frank
Evans, Thomas William
Shirley, Arthur Ashton
Farrington, Archibald
Smith, Eugene Ewart
Foorman, Carl Theodore
Smith; Frederick Robert
Furrer, Albert
Smith, Ulysses Grant
Grnnquist, John
Smith, William Lea
Groft', William Edwin
Strong, Archibald McClure
Gunter, Hannibal Newton
Summers, Lloyd
Hall, Leieester Campbell, P. M.
Summers, Thomas
Harp, Frank Raymond Ransom
Tinder, Glenn Erran
Himrod, William Brown
Towner, Hick Marcus
Hess, Frederick Mortimer
Trickey, William Anthony
Hodge, Jacob Cluse
Vermilyea, Samuel E.
Hollis, Thomas
Washington, Richard Henry
Howard, Frank Evans
Watterson, Mark Quayle, P. M.
Hughes, George Venning
Watterson, Thomas Gracey
Jones, John Edward
Watterson, Wilfred Wm., P. M.
.Toughin, William Daniel
Weill, Lazare
Kilpatrick, Alexander Franklin
Wells, Albert Lloyd, P. M.
Larson, Owen W.
Wells, George Lucien
Leicham, Charles George
Wells, Jees·e Warren
Love, Robert
Wildasinn, <Jharles Fell
Matlick, Charles Wilson
Wotton, Horace Vernon
MacDonald, George Arthur
Yandell, David Wendell
McDonald, William
Yaney, William Parker
-92
McMurtric, Angus Robert
WITHDRAWN:
Campbell, Edward Artemas
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Todd, John Wagner
Wright, Joseph Henry

468

ROSTER

Bigelow, Charles Spencer
Dunlap, John Elijah
Hammett, William Atwood

DIED:
Longley, George
Mitchell, William Hart
Watterson, William

ROSTER

ELSINORE LODGE, No. 289.
Elsinore, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•
MAXWELL LODGE, No. 288.
Maxwell, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George M. Gardner, Chap/ail!,
George R. Houx, Master,
Charles E. Brenner, Senior Dcac.,
Maxwell, Cal.
Samuel E. Crutcher, Senior Ward., ........................................, Junior Deacon,
Martin Mathieson, Junior Warden, J ames W. Danley, Marshal,
Frank H. Abel, Steward,
George W . Desrosier, Treasurer,
George B. Pence, Steward,
Arthur J. Fouch, Secretary,
George H ineline, Tyler.
Maxwell, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Felts, Christopher Columbus
Abel, Franklin Henry
Fouch, Arthur John, P. M.
Abel, George Henry
Gardiner, C. E.
Abel, Henry Herman
Hannis,
Russell Sage
Baker, Francis Marion
Hastings, George Washington
Braddy, Joseph Albert
Hineline, George
Brenner, Charles
Roux, George R.
Brown, Lycurgus Jerome, P. M.
Marshall, James Wells
Chapman, Karl Raymond
Marshall, Wm. Porter
Cook, Henry Jason
Mushett, Leo Lee
Cook, Hiram S.
Pearce, John Alex.
Crutcher, Samuel E.
Pence, Geo. B. McClellin
Cuthbertson, Alex. Macbeth
Rumelsburg, Herman
Danley, James Warren, P. M.
Scriver, Frederick
Desrosier, George Wash., P. M.
Snyder, August Charles
Duncan, Chas. Prentice, P. M.
Taylor, John Delos Sharp, P. M .-32
Fisher, Horace Winter
WITHDRAWN:
Fox, Homer Hastings

469

OFFICERS:

Adrian Benjamin Barnett, Master, Nelson Jonas Burton, Chaplain,
T'emecula, Cal.
Delbert Roy Crane, Senior Deacon,
Marcel Nicholas Herbelin, S. W ard., James Augustus Brown, J. Deacon,
Jessie Stanley Cobb, Junior W arden, Herman Henry Niemann, Ma1·shal,
Charles H udson, Treasurer,
Lewis D. Clark, Steward,
William Francis Porteus, S ecretary, William Penn Haworth, S teward,
P . 0. Box 84, Elsinore, Cal.
John Timmis, Tyler.
Barnett, Adrian Benjamin
Barnett, Eli Elsa
Barnett, John Zachariah
Bolting, Charles Stewart
Burnhsm, Alfred Sanfred
Burton, Nelson Jonas
Clark, Lewis Delancy
Cobb, Jesse Stanley
Crandall, Orsamus Delos
Crane, Delbert Roy
Crane, James Addison
Dimeling, Elmer Arlington
Dodd, Harold Volby
Dodd, Miles William
Fernald, Frank Loring
Fox, Clarence Earl
Green, William Henry
Haworth, William Penn
Herbelin, Marcel Nicholas
Hoag, Julius Adelbert
Hudson, Charles, P. M.
James, Arthur Watkins
Meredith, Charles Thiers

MEMBERS:
Keeler, George Dennison
Manatt, Scott E.
McClintock, Cecil V.
McClintock, Earl Mathew
Merrifield. '1harles Sumner, P. M.
Nelson, Richard Clark
Niemann, Herman Henry
Page, Thomas Percival
Parkhurst, Jacob Lotspeich
Porteus, William Francis
Roripaugh, John Elmore
Sloan, William Eskine, P. M.
Small, Albert Kimball
Stewart, James, P. M.
Tibbett, John Franklin
Timmis, John
Tipton, John C.
Wall, Peter
Williams, Fred Le Roy
Woodford, Asa W.
Woodford, John Howe

-43
WITHDRAWN:
•Parkhurst, Millard

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brown, Willis Edwin
Coombs, George Arlington
Tuell, Bernea J.
•Atf!Uated during the year.

ROSTER

ROSTER

470

EAST GATE LODGE, No.

290.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert Vint, Master,
Henry William Sherlock, Chaplain,
1408 W. 12th St., Los Angeles.
Burrows Clark Arnold, Sen. Deac.,
Charles Alfred Holland, Sen. Ward., Luther L. Yates, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas Benton Becanon, Jun. Ward., Frederick Williams Tyler, Marshal,
Charles Martin Burr, Treasurer,
Gordon Robert Martin, Steward,
Edward Lee Stephens, Secretary, Luke. Hubbard, Steward,
3115 N. Broadway, Los Angeles. James Madison Tibbitts, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Baker, Charles Edwin
Baker, Henry Edgar
Baldwin, Evan Jenkins, Jr.
Bard, Hampeus Victor, P. M.
'Barker, Eugene Henry
Barnett, Marcus Esla
Barrett, Clyde Alexander
Bascom, Edgar Floyd
Bates, Norman Francis
Baum, Jacob
Beamon, Alexander Mortimer
Becanon, Thomas Brenton
Beggs, Samuel Joseph
B njamin, Isaac Bernhard
Berenio, Gaetano Marion
Berman, Harry
Berry, John Price
Berry, Otis Bowyer
Beyrle, Andrew
Bigler, Robert Caleb
Birch, James Thomas
Black, Clarence Earl
Black, Robert
Blackstone, Henry Winthrop
Blair, Cassius Davis
Blessington, Frank Erlward
Bogart, Charles Henry
Boteter, Conway
Bouchard, Philips

Adams, James Gilmour
Adams, Robert Perry
Adams, \Villiam Alexander
Adcock, Robert James
Affeltranger, Ferdinand
Ahrens, August
Aird, Alexander Fisher
Allen, Carroll Hess
Allen, Robert Mitchell
Allison, John P.
Alexander, Charles Ambrose
Alexander, Oran Laffayette
Alexander, Stephen W. Dorman
Ambrose, Frank Fielder
Ambrose, Wiley Vance
Ames, Charles Ellison
Andorson, Doris
Anderson, John Francis
Andrews, Roger Mercein
Archer, Arthur Jasen
Arnold, Burrows Clark
Arnoldt, Herman
Ashley, William Buckley
Aydelotte, George Howard
Aylsworth, George Webb
Bacheldor, Isaac Otis
Baetz, John Henry
Bailey, John Mark
Bailey, John T.

T'

.

4

Bourne, John Franklin
Bovee, William James
Bowen, Philip Edwin
Boyd, Charles Elmore
Boyle, Peter Murray, P. M.
Brain, Robert Thomas
Brightfield, John Henry
Bristow, Bruce Trimble
Brosha, Roy
·
Brown, Clinton Orlin
Brown, Edgar Kapp
Brown, Joseph Edgar
Buehler, Charles
Bulkey, Olcott Smith
Bullard, Wm. Bradford
Burness, William Jr.
Burr, Charles Martin
Burr, Edwin Rice
Burr, William Henry
Burris, John Taylor
Burton, Harry Irons
Bush, Arthur Valentine
Cabe, Robert Lee
Calef, Frank John
Campbell, Henry Chapney
Carrick, Harvey Hall
Carroll, Frank
Carson..Tohn Kingsley
Case, Edwin Alanson
Cavett, William Russell
Charbonnal, Marie Joseph Z.
Chatfield, Glenn Elsworth
Christian, Harfield Timberlake
Chapman, John
Chambers, Andrew Jackson
Childs, Wiley Waldron
Chester, Charles Monod
Clark, Edgar Willard
Clapp, Victor
Coedry, Thomas Wallace
Cole, Nathan, Jr.
Coleman, Thomas Newton
C!ollette, Louis Prime
Collins, Anthony
Ccllins, Holdridge Ozro

Collins, Silas Martin
Collins, Wallace
Conklin, Leon Robbin
Connell, George Brinton
Cooper, John Edward
Cooper, Milton Gilbert
Cottrell, Leonard Gerald
Craig, Hiram Anson
Crane, Floyd Walter
Crawford, John Henry
Cray, Oliver
Cross, Alfred
Crowley, James Thomas
Cruickshank, Lewis
Cutter, Everett Parsons
Dalton, Hugh Alex.
Daniel, William Thomas
Daun, Adam Henry
Davidson, William Henry, P. M.
Davison, Allen
De La Monte, Jacques Henry.
Dellenbaugh, Robert Chas.·
De Sellem, Chase
Dibble, James Robert
Dickson, James
Dockstrader, Ernest Clayton
Dockstader, Martin
Donato, Henry Delmond
Donivan, Chas. Edwin
Donivan, John William
Draper, De Los Taft
Dromgold, Reuben Wisor
Dundas, Robert Chester
Durfee, DeLois Atkins
DeNick, John Adam
Denison, Francis Edgar
Doverspike, Derol Larkin
Eagan, Daniel Auguatus
Earle, Charles Nelson
Eggert, Gustave
Eisenmayer, George Franklin
Eisenmayer, Philip Henry
Elsensohn, Fred J.
Emery, Lee Roy
Eno, Bert William

471

n2
Etchepare, Gaston Joseph
Eubank, Stephen James
Evans, Evan Arthur
Ewing, William Samuel
Fairclough, Harry
Fee, John Chester
Feldmiller, John Fred
Felt, Charles Benjamin
Felt, Tom Benjamin
Fehrensen, Edward William
Fernald, Joseph Harry
Fiddamont, Wm. Alfred
Field, Robert Nelson
Finley, Wm. Custer
Finnall, John Eager
Fisher, Walter Willard
Fletcher, John William
Fitch, Thomas
Flint, Frank Putman, P. M.
Flint, Motley Hughes, P. G. M.
Flynn, Alex. Kie
Flynn, Rudolph
Forschner, Donald Robert
Fossett, Howard Jefferson
Foster, Jessie Gwin
Frankhouser, Francis Wm.
Frembling, Albert Fred
French, Otis Leland
.Fulton, William Henderson
Gale, William Knight
Garlock, Geo. Sylvester
Gates, Harry Henry
Geis, Albert Joseph
Gillingham, Caleb
Giltenan, Robert Emmet
Goble, :William Franklin
Goodfriend, Arnoldt
Goodman, Leon Jacob
Gordan, Benhard
Gould, Robert Delos Baldwin
Graefner, Leopold
Grant, Arthur Cameron
Gray, Eugene Fancher, P. M.
Gray, Melville M.
Gray, Thomas Henry

ROSTER
Green, Jonathan M.
Greer, Perry H.
Gregory, Arthur William
Griest, Hadley
Gronow, Tracy Deering
Gruber, George
Gundlack, Augustus
Gundlack, Robert Seely
Gwynn, Alfred EdwarJ
Hafford, Ferris Samuel
Haines, Newell Langley
Hall, Charles Spencer
Hall, Harry Barton
Hall, Paul Rutledge
Haller, Jacob Ferdinand, P. M.
Hallett, William Hovey
Hamm, Wm. Geo.
Hand, Alfred Harold
Harper, James Edwin
Harris, Harry Lester
Hi\rt, Richard D.
Harting, John Henry
Harvey, Frank Kramer
Hathaway, LeViene Josiah
Hawley, Mark Leo
Hayes, Fred
Hayward, Frank Edward
Healy, Bernard
Heaney, Robert
Helfin, Francis Asbury
Hellman, Marco Herman
Hemphill, Robert Simms
Henderson, William Alexander
Henry, Louin Harry
Henshaw, William Ambrose
Herman, Henry Elmer, P. M.
Higgins, Solon Lee
Hill, Henry Tristram
Higginson, James
Hilleary, Warren
Hoag, Charles Wayland
Hobble, Benjamin
Hogancamp, Robert Thomas
Hoffman, William Boyd
Holden, Harry Howard

ROSTER

T

J
.

Holderman, Clarence Smith
Holdridge, Charles Henry .
Hollis, George Henry
Holland, Chas. Alfred
Holloway, ifoseph Brevitte
Holmes, Alfred Henry
Horner, John
Houser, Frederick Wilhelm, P. M.
Howard, Vern.
Hubbard, Luke
Hudson, Geo. Whitfield
Huestis, Ed. McCook
Hurd, Fred Barrows
Hutchins, Ray
Jacobs, Isaac Orlando
Jacobson, Leo
James, Frank
Jay, Clarence Lee
Jay, Frank Augustus
Jeffries, John Henry .
Jenkins, James Curtis
Jenkins, James Thomas
Jinnette, Joseph Monroe
Johnson, Charles William
Johnson, James Thomas
Johnson, Pierce Floyd
Johnston, John Griffith
Jones, Roy Temple
Joslyn, Charlton E.
Judd, Wm. James
Judon, George
Keese, Roy Boardman
Kellogg, Frederick Ranney
Kerr, Milton George
Keyes, Asa, P. M.
Keyes, Charles George
Kinch, Arthur Lamborn
King, Francis Everton
Kletting, Oscar
Knorr, Charles Albert
Koretz, Emil
Knouff, John Brough
Kolster, Charles Gallway
Lampton, Leon Eugene, P. M.
Landsberg, Marcus

Lanphar, William Vaughn
Latham, George
Laurence, William Flint
Lawler, Oscar, P. G. M.
Lawler, Norman
Lawrence, John
Leavers, George Reynolds
Leeds, William Harmon
Leftler, John Robert
Lerrigo, Francis Richard
Levy, Oscar
Lewellin, Bert C.
Lewis, John Clement
Lewis, Orlin Lugren
Ley," George John
Lindsey, Cecil Wm. B.
Lockhart, Thomas Reed
Long, Daniel Murray
Lorenz, Charles Henry
Loucks, Ernest Leroy
Lovejoy, William Robertson
Luckenbach, John
Lyle, Charles Francis
Lynch, Edward C.
Maly, Charles Wesley
Mann, Henry
Mann, Henry James
Mann, Wm. Austin
Markwith, Wm. Leonard
Martin, David, P. M.
Martin, Gordon
Martin, Gordon Robert
Martin, James Rufus
Martin, Wm. Reid
Mastin, Thomas Chester
McAlpine, Bertram
McClure, John
McCray, Roy Hewitt
McCrea, George
Mccully, Richard Overall
McDonald, Charles Alexander
Mcintyre, Charles Ira, P. M.
McKay, William Scott
McKeag, William Heisler, Jr.
McKillip, Denis Edward

473

474
McLean, Herbert Douglas
McMillan, Erwin Adelbert
McNab, Frank Brown
MrNaughton, Peter C.
McNeely, Albert Boyd
McNelly, William 'folman
McNaoh, John
McWhorter, Thomas Lakin
Mendelsohn, Myer
Menthie, Gustav Frank
Meredith, William Gaylore
Merithew, Charles Frederic
Messacar, Frank William
Metzler, Milton
Michelson, Homer Manuel
Miller, Cochise William
Miller, William
Milligan, Noevell Webb
Mills, Frank D.
Minick, Manford
Monkrnan, Rollin Wilfred
Montgomery, Chester Arthur
Morgan, James Glenn
Morgan, Elmer Ellsworth
Morgan, William Chester
Morrill, Mattson, Annis
Morris, Jacob
Morrison, Edwin M.
Moore, Robert Beach
Moss, Clemence Felton
Moss, George Franklin
Moss, Phillips, Jr.
Mottash.ed, .John Alexander
Mount, Wm. Druce
Mulkey, Frank Cannon, P. M.
Muschler, John Frederick
Myott, Herbert Holyrod
Nairn, James Meatlancl M.
Nash, Thomas Allen
Neir, Harry Wesley
Nevins, Leon Wesley
Nickerson, John William
Nikrent, Joseph August
Nutt, Robert Franklin
Ogan, Sidney Albert

ROSTER
Oliver, William Edwin
Orr, Oscar Owen
Osgood, Ernest Edward
Osgood, James Earl
Ottarson, Earl Ferdinand Joaquin
Ovenshire, Elijah Adams
Pallman, Axell
Palomaras, Frank Joseph
Park, Clarence Eugene
Parker, Claude Irving
Parr, Frank Avory
Passow, Henry William Frederick
Patterson, Charles Edgar
Patterson, Peter F.
Paul, John Rink
Pearson, Carroll Addison
Pearson, Otio W ellin
Penn, Charles Franklin
Perillard, Joseph Daniel
Pettit, Zachary Taylor Jr.
'Pfahler, Paul George
Pierce, Geo. Clayton
Pierce, William Harry
Poll, Matt
Porter, Charles Alfred
Potts, Alexander Robert
Prince, Geo. Loren
Putman, Frederick Singleton
Ragland, Frank
Randle, William Alonzo
Ream, Claude Carl
Reau, Albert Eugene
Reber, John Edward
Rei:s, William David
Reiffin, Michel
Reynolds, Charles Coffin
Reynolds, Clay Moses
Richardson, William
Riley, Mercelein Edgar
Richardson, Louis Michel
Rinaldi, Arthur
Riniker, Henry
Ritchie, Alfred George
Ritchie, James
Roberts, John S.

ROSTER

-

Robinson, Henry James
Rogers, Joseph Redford
Rogers, Wm. Madison
Roess, George
Romans, Lorenzo
Romans, Theo. Denny
Royere, Paul Peter
Rush, Juuson Randolph
Rushton, George Wilson
Russell, Almen Butler
Russell. Geo. Washington
Rutter, Albertus J.
Ryan, John Edgar
Sadler, Carl K:
Sanborn, Frank Herbert
Sanborn, Wheelock Kimball
Save, Paul
Sayre, William Ernest
Schader, Herbert George
Schakow, Charles John
Schmidt, Herman Carl
Schultz, Henry Cleveland
Schoenoeg, Nat
S1~hroeter, Robert George
Schubert, George John
Schultheiss, William Fredorick
Schultz, Emil Albert
Schwed, Felix Ralph
Seablom, And1ew
Searl, Albert
Seavers, Frank Loran
Shanafelt, Thomas Edwin
Shang, Hubert Story
Shaw, Carl Guard
Shaw, Ross D.
Shaw, William Henry
Shea, Willard Wright
Shullen, Helmer Augustus
Sherlock, Henry William
Shilling, Warren Randolph
Shorb, Orrie Ashley Andrew
Showen, James C.
Shultis, Jordan
Sincerbox, John William
Skillings, Merrill Eben

Smith, Benjamin Nathaniel, Jr.
Smith, James Sterling
Smith, Leonard Emery
Smith, Melvin David
Smithen, Walter
Snively, Austin Calvin
Snodgrass, Earl Fall
Snodgras, Furman Earl
Snow, Harry L.
Snyder, Rea
Sorensen, Edward
Sorenson, John
Souther, William M.
Sovereign, Geo. Roscoe
Spalding, William Andrew, P. M.
Spear, Joseph Morgan
Spear, Sam11el Dunn
Spence, John Daniel
Squire, Guy Oliver
Spring, Frederick James
Stebles, John
Staffer, William
Stern, Adam
Steitz, Jacob Raymond
Stephens, Albert Miller
Stephens, Clarence Edward
Stephens, Clarence Eugene
Stephens, Edward Lee, P. M.
Stephens, Harry Shryock
Stockwell, George Washington
Stoddard, Frederick H.
Stoker, Chas. Fred 'k
Stone, Harry Eli
Stover, Abram C.
St. John, Walter Lee
Street, Wm. Henry
Streshly, Richard Channing
Stroud, Harrison Edward
Stuart, Joseph Leroy
Stumpf, Elmo John
Suell, Elijah
Sutton, Geo. Elmer
Syminton, Gilbert John
Taylor, George Edwin
Taylor, Russell McDowell

476

..
476

ROSTER

Terrell, Herbert Truman
Teskey, Samuel
Thayer, Forrest Jerome
Thom, Cameron DeHart
Thom, c ·a tesby Charles, P. M.
Thompson, Walter Rhoades
Thomson, James
Thorne, Francis Arthur
Tibbitts, Hora ce Rexford
'fibbitts, James Madison
Tomlinson, William Glenard
Truitt, Jadie
Trantman, Paul Stephen
Treadway, Clinton William
Thresher, Arthur Ward
Turner, Lester Wilfred
Tyler, Ben Champion
Tyler, Frederick Williams
V alck, Renney
· Vandegrift, Malcolm Robb
Van Dingstee, Cornelius
Van Dingstee, Hiram M.
Van Slyke, Lewis Julius
VanWhy, August Marion
Vassar, Calvin Edwin
Vaughn, Alton Rogers
Vint, Robert
Vodra, Victor Valentine
Von Poser, Otto Daniel
Vlodek, Alexander
Walbridge, Otis Collins
Walkinshaw, Charles Henry
Wallis, Hubert John
Walsh, Daniel Potter

J<'eidler, Max
Harton, L eo White

Ward, David Montzuma
Ward, George Washington
Ward, Raymond Ransome
Wasem, George Washington
Washburn, William Jobncon
Weaver, Lucian Leroy
Weintraub, Harry
Weller, William Woods
Wescott, Herbert Edward
West, Henry H ebard
Whalin, Elmer R .
Wheeler, Frank Harry
White, Charles Alfred
White, Walter Garfield
White, William
Wharton, Charles B.
Wicker, Clarence Baldwin
Wilde, George Albert
Wilkes, Alfred Galpin
WiJkes, Thomas
wmiams, H erbert George
Willis, Frank Rominar, P. M.
Wells, James Craig
Willis, Wm. Hammond
Wilmuth, Charles Byron
Winans, Alonzo Culley
Wolfe, Winfield Scott
Wood, Sherman
Woodsmall, John Walter
Wright, Charles Emory
Yager, Sherman Alvin
Yates, Luther L.
Younkman; William Earl
Zeitz, William David
-576

WITHDRAWN:
Morris, Bernard
, Patton, Vaughn Quain
Schuebly, William Francis·

Furrer, ,John
Nutter, Lyman Eugene
Nickell, Francis Marion
Stead, Benson, Jr.

DIED:
Stearns, Elmer Paine
Stevenson, Charles Oscar
West, George Miller
Winters, Charles Oscar

ROSTER

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291.
Santa Paula, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Drown, Alton Lucius
Dull, John
Fagan, Michael
Farrand, George E.
Flisher, George Washington
}'oster, Cecil Pelham
Foster, Frank Cheney
Foster, Fred Albert
Frey, William Lester
Gailey, Dan Gregg, P. M,
Gilger, Frank B.
Good, Frank Elwin
Guiberson, Lorraine Parr
Hales, William
Hardison, Allen Crosby
Hardison, Guy Lyman
Hardison, Louis Arthur
Hardison, Lowell Mason
Hardison, Oliver James
Harrington, James HRRtings
Harvey, Frank Fletcher
Hawley, Oscar Franklin
Hedrick, Bsnj. Clinton
H;enderson, Herbert Curtis
Henegar, Eugene Long
Hutchins,' James Varcoe
Hutchi~on, Robert Newton
Jenkins, Samuel Rogers
Joy, Olin Comfort
.Toy, Ray Comfort, P. M .
King, Warren LeRoy
Kitchen, Earl Windsor
Lewis, Harry Leroy
Mack, James, P. M.

Allen, Ai. W.
Allen, William Henry
Armstrong, Clarence Sylvester
Bassett, Henry Nelson
Bixby, Chester Folsome
Blanchard, Arthur Hall
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, P. M.
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, Jr.
Bond, Rufus Gallatin
Bond, Thomas Hindman
Boor, Walter Raymond
Bowker, Louis Britton
Browne, Isaac Proctor, P. M.
Burson, Albert Louis, P. M.
Call, Arthur Milliman
Campbell, Earl, P. M.
Canavan, Edward J.
Carver, Harry Bernice
Cauch, John Robert
Churchill, Ralph Loren
Claberg, Norris Leander
Clarke, Robert Montgomery
Clayton, Alfred Dorn
Cleveland, Charles Jerry
Corb(;ltt, Leonard White
Crane, John Briggs
Davis; Dudley Lewis
Davis, Frank Elwell, P. :M.
Decker, Eugene Herbert
DeNure, Delos DeWolf, P. M.
Derbyshire, Fred Levi
Divenf Quay Stowell
Doan, Stanton Grant
Draper, Arthur Edgar

477

ROSTER

ROSTER

47S

Mahon, John
Martin, Ira Benjamin
Martin, Rollin Leo
Mcintosh, George Robert
Mills, Lauren Elmer
Mott, David Wallace, P. M.
Naugle, Wm. Burket
Neville, Duncan Alvin
Neville, Lorne Sincoe
Orcutt, John Hall, P. M.
Owen, Paul Guy
Pickering, James Alex.
Plaugher, Frank
Pollock, Earl B.
Poplin, Robert Lee
Pruitt, Henry Daniel
Proctor, Henry, Jr.
Puckett, Charles Newton
Ransdell, Alex. Moore
Ramsaur, Lucien Clare
Reed, Frank
Reese, Wm. Mathews
Rice, James Clarence
Richardson, George Larence
Richardson, Frank Robert
Richardson, John William
Richmond, Sydney Bell
Robinson, William Holton
Say, Norman Oliver, P. M.
Scott, William Benjamin
Shedenhelm, Mark M.
Shipley, Frank Arthur
Shive, James Henry

Skinner, Ernest Guy
Skinner, George Horace
Sloan, James Harvey, P. M.
Slocum, Thomas ArnolU
Smith, Robert Percy
Snyder, Henry Nicholas
Sperry, James Clarence
Stein, Willie McCain, P. M.
Stephens, Wm. Madison
Stetson, Richard N.
Stewart, J amea Foster
Stewart, Nlie Hopkins
Strong, Jacob Corrington
Teague, Charles Collins
Teague, Dana Lyndon
Teague, Richard Henry
Thomas, Simeon John
Titus, Frank Keith, P. M.
Todd, Marquis DeLafayette
Tubbs, Howard Chester
Vance, Thom~s Logan
Virden, Edwin, P. M.
Wannell, William Colston
Webster, David Augustus
Wedekind, Edward
Williams, Howard E.
Whitmer, George
Whitney, George F.
Wilson, Charles Berry
Wiser, Frank Alfred
Wright, Walter Henry, P. M.
Youngken, Benjamin Noble
-134
Youngling, Paul Fisk

WITHDRAWN:
Best, Willis Austin
DIED:
Grinnell, Bryce Bradshaw
Haugh, Joseph Reck
Shain, Halver Alonzo

LOS GATOS LODGE, No.

. 479

292.

Los Gatos, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Ri:ssell Henry Sund, Master,
Los Gatos, Cal.
Paul Edward Curtis, Sen. Warden,
Elton Marion Hogg, Jun. Warden,
Arthur Berryman, Treasurer,
John Edward Ellis, Secretary,
Los Gatos, Cal.

Paul Andrew Lundblad, Sen. Deacon,
Fred Berryman, Junior Deacon,
Harry St. Clare Finley, Marshal,
Henry Owen Smith, Steward,
Raymcnd Clay Hogg, Steward,
Flynt William Mills, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Balch, Stevens Delos
Barnett, Joseph
Beckwith, Henry Seamon
Bell, Richard Rundell
Berryman, Arthur, P. M.
Blank, Moses Franklin, P. M.
Bogart, Andrew Templeman·
Briggs, Charles Hunter, P. M.
Bryant, James Rea
Bullard, Sewell Francis
Burrell, William Arthur
Butler, Edward Samuel Stone
Castle, Carroll Clay
Chandler, Robert Bowman
Charles, Charles
Chubbuck, Samuel Willis
Cilker, Archie Lipsett
Cilker, John Marion
Cilker, Robert Abner
Ci1ker, William Hamilton
Clark, Ernest Le Roy
Cole, Lawrens A.
Conover, Virgil Melville
Cooke, Bates Millard
Curtis, Charles
Curtis, Paul Edward
Curtiss, Merritt C.
Decker, Charles Magnus
De Long, Charles Warren

Derrickson, Francis Marion, P. M.
Ellis, John Edwartl
Ellis, William Robert
Emerson, George Randolph
Erickson, Andrew Lawrence
Finley, Harry St. Clare, P. M.
Fretwell, Joseph Joel
Gober, Robert Pearis, P. M.
Green, George Anthony, P. M.
Harmon, Charles Dana
Hook, Jonathan Wesley
Hogg, Elton Marion
Hogg, Raymond Clay
Hunter, Charles Mandeville
Husted, Ralph Allen
Hutchins, William Octave
Johns, Thomas Edwin, P. M.
Johnson, Albert
.Tones, William, P. M.
King, John Jay
Knowles, Frank Wesley, P. M.
Laddick, John Henry
La Montagne, Edward Oscar
Latham, Allen Roscoe
Lint, Peter Franklin, P. M.
Lowell, Frank Sumner
Lundblad, Paul Andrew
Lupton, Henry W.
Lyndon, William Weldon

480

ROSTER

Mabie, Irving Dorr
Matheson, David
MeMurtry, George Sherman
Mead, Thaddeus Honn
Melone, Earl Edgar
Mills, Flynt William
Morrell, Jesse Burrell
Osmer, George
Pearce, Bartholomew William
Pearce, Franklin Walt.ir
Pearce, James Henry
Pearce, James Henry, Jr.
Penny, Albert
Pierce, Charles Henry
Ramsay, Hugh Augustine R.
Rice, John Austin
Riggs, Zedd Smith, P. M.
Roberts, Carl Jackson
Roberts, Douglas J.
Roberts, Hugh Ross, P. M.
Roberts, Sumner Van Ness, P. M.
Robertson, Richard Felix, P. M.
Rogers, Noah Garcelon
Ruddell, William Harry
Sams, Abram Lash
Sams, Homer Lash
Scammon, Charles Franklin
S!'hofield, John Albert

ROSTER

Sheffield, Leslie Ellsworth
Shirley, Horace Gordon
Shore, Julius Dalton
Short, Wilbur Clinton
Siman, John Bohumil
Simpson, Samuel
Smith, Erle Temple
Smith, Henry Owen
Smith, John William
Smith, Robert Ernest
Sporleder, William
Stamer, August
Stamper, Elbert Cevere
Stanfield, James John
Sund, Russell Henry
Taylor, Benjamin Grant
Templeman, Arthur Wellington
Topping, Charles Samuel
Van Eaton, Charles Calwell
Van Eaton, George Ingram
Warren, Linton Allen
Watson, Robert Matthew
Weaver, ·Nelson Holland
Wells, Eagon C.
Wilder, Notia Irwin
Yelland, Sherman Albert
Y oeeo, George Henry

DIED:
Simon, Paul

481

ORANGE GROVE LODGE, No. 293.
Orange, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Allan Riley, Master,
Joseph Frank Rawley, Chaplain,
123 N. Cypress St.
William Albert Knuth, Sen. Deacon,
Asher Frank Langford, S. Warden, Willard Smith, Junior Deacon,
Charles Otis Field, Junior Warden, George Wilbur Elliott, Marshal,
Clifton John Overshiner, Treasurer, Clyde Frank Newton, Steward,
Walter Scott Gregg, Secretary,
Edwin Bolden Peers, Steward,
·Box 204, Orange, Cal.
John Sidney Braisher, Tyler.

-113

MEMBERS:
Donovan, Napoleon
Adams, Harrison Zachariah
Drake, David Clarence
Adams, John
Durfee, Louis Adelbert
Arnim, William Laidley
Durnbaugh, Edgar
Baker, Charles
Eckhardt, William Bates
Barton, Hiram Arthur
Edwards, Nelson Thomas, P. M.
Bennett, Francis Marion
Bishop, Clyde Livingston, P. M.
Eells, Arthur Lewis
Elliott, George Wilbur
Bollinger, Robert
Faerber, William
Boring, Johnty Purcell
Bowen, David
Ferguson, Chaney Christopher
Field, Charles Otis
Braisher, John Sidney
Brown, Edwin J.
Folger, Rosfl Lloyd
Fullerton, James, P. M.
Brown, William Martin
Gardner, Dian Rathburn
Cahill, John Valinzo
Gardner, Henri Regniald
Carey, Wm. Franklin
uates, George W.
Chapline, Frank Leroy
Gilman, Edwin Lee
Clark, Milo Munroe
Granger, Wm. Delos
Claypool, Myron Newton
Gregg, Walter Scott, P. M.
Cole, John Leonard
Hayton, John Burr
Coates, Ranaldin Lycurgus
Helwig, Benjamin Reason
Collins, Isaac Lea, P. M.
Helwig, Walter Lee
Crawford, Daniel Peers
Higgins, Alfred
Crawford, Earl Monroe
Hitchcock, Alton Lincoln, P. M.
Cummings, Ernost John
Dalrymple, Harry Franklin, P. M. Holt, William Arthur
Honey, Edwin Alonzo, P. M.
Dalton, Robert C.
Hutchinson, Earl G.
Deyoe, Leroy Warren
Ingalls, Ernest l';l!annon
Domann, Arthur Henry
31

482

ROSTER

Jackson, George Logan, P. M.
Jernigan, Samuel
King, John Allen
Knesel, Jacob Lureston
Knuth, William Albert
Lankford, Asher Frank
Lee, Eugene Tewkesberry
Lee, William Cushman, P. M.
Lounsberry, John Brown
Lush, Clarence Edgar
Mallory, Charles Perrin
McDonald, William Henry
:M.cTaggart, Neil Godfrey
Meadows, Charles Waldo
Meehan, John Edward
Mellor, Franklin Horace
Miller, Herman A.
Morgan, John William
Morin, Thomas
Myers, Jesse David
Newell, Arthur Childs, P. M.
:Newton, Clyde Frank
Osmun, George Everett
Overshiner, Clifton John
Park, Wm. Brewster
Peers, Edwin Bolden
Perkins, Wyllys Warren
Peters, Herman Christopher

:::lwinney, Vincent Boliver

Pixley, DeWitt Clinton
Poussette, William Courthope
Porter, John Robert
Post, Ernest Miller
Potter, Noah Ulysses
Rowley, Joseph Frank
Richards, Guy G.
Riley, George Allan
Robertson, Francis Elolin
Royer, Daniel Franklin, P. M.
Schmidt, John
Smith, Ernest Hartford
Smith, Willarcl
Stocking, Merle
Tiffany, Abraham Beecher
Upham, Harry George
Vaughan, James Edwin
Wade, Llewellyn
Waldorf, Bert .T.
Watson, Kellar Ebenezer
Weatherly, George Homer
Weber, Francis S.
Williams, Howard Orlan, P. M.
Williams, Warner Bryant, P. M.
Weymouth, Albert B.
Wyland, Pete W.
Zuckerman, John Samuel

WITHDRAWN:
*Smith, John Zellar

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Si;roule, Gilbert
Gregg, William Merrill
Holt, Benj. Albert
Paine, John Robert
.Tessup, Sellers
Bates, Charles Myron

*Degrees conferred during the year.

ROSTEB

-111

483

TRAVER LODGE, No. 294Xingsburg, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Clayton F. Draper, Master,
Robert A. Catlin, Senior Deacon,
Kingsburg, Cal.
Charles Reynold Andrews, Jun. Deac.,
Walter E. Simms, Senior Warde11
Charles J. Clark, Marshal,
He~ry Ernest Verble, Junior Wa:d., Martin Sandy Stirwalt, Steward,
Levi Garrett, Treasurer,
John Forrist Forney, Steward,
Levi Garrett Hanby, Secretary,
George W. Boyle, Tyler.
Kingsburg, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Andrews, Charles Reynold
Andrews, Godfrey Emanuel
Barry, William Scott
Bishop, George Washington
Bishop, Hugh L., P. M.
Bowhay, Newton J.
Boyle, George W.
Brown, Daniel E.
Buchanan, Alex. Marion
Buchanan, Jesse Alxis
Catlin, Robert Allen
Clark, Earl R.
Clarke, Charles Jackson
Collins, Manuel E.
Curle, Garland Ward, P. M.
Dill, Charles Henry, P. M.
Draper, Clayton Francis
Duval, Ernest H.
Ellison, Barton
Estabrook, Joseph S.
Fowler, Oswald Percy
Forney, John Forrest
Fray, Ruben Henry
Garrett, Levi
Hanby, Levi Garrett
Hanby, James· A. B.
Hanson, Nels
Harkleroad, George Jarvis

Heimrath, Charles ·
Hurley, Lloyd Elaxander
Hurst, Walter
Johnson, Andrew Edwarcl
Johnson, Axel
Kimberlin, Ernest Marion, P. M.
King, Nathan Alfred, P. M.
Loomis, Asa Bird, P. M.
Maxwell, Ralph Earl
McGovern, George Washington
Mcintyre, James W.
Mugler, Albert Miller
Ogden, Henry Samuel
Olson, John Adolph
Palladina, Antonio C.
Palladine, Chester T.
Pennebaker, William Findlev
Peterson, William M.
·
Petterson, Ivar Adolph
Pinkley, Eugene Willar<l
Rea, Francis Leo
Redenbaugh, Milton
Rosendahl, Frank D.
Ross, Samuel A.
Simms, Walter Erwin
Smith, Thomas Dick
Stirewalt, Forrest Roy, P. M.
Stirewalt, Martin Sandy

484

ROSTER

ROSTER

Thomas, Henry Colby
Verble, Henry Ernest
Walsh, Martin Frankliu

Bordson, Ben
Ogle, Emmett

Warren, Albert B.
Wolff, Sigmund
Woods, Andrew Jackson

-62

WITHDRAWN:
Pillsbury, Joseph Davis
Wolf, Alonzo D.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Nelson, William Dennis
VanBuren, William Henry

MOUNT JACKSON LODGE, No. 295.
Guerneville, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

McDowell, John Charles
McGuffin, Isaac, P. M.
McPeak, Anthony
McPeak, Jerry Martin
McPeak, Mathew Lawrence
Miller, J:ames Zering
Morelli, Joseph Barnaba
Morelli, Lee Gaulenzio
Mosely, Albert Pettis
Nuttall, William Henry
Oberfell, William
Olsen, Jess August
Patton, John
Peugh, David Benjamin, P. M.
Peugh, Edward Allen
Plath, Fritz
Prestwood, Jesse Franklin, P. M.
Prosek, Charles Martin, P. M.

485

Reed, Arthur Lanfear
Ridenhour, Lewie Edward
Riese, Samuel Helmute
Roberts, John Henry
Rodgers, Chester Thompson
Roussan, Frederick Eli
Schmelz, Charles Joseph
Shera, Albert Edward
Smith, William Somervail
Story, Walter Francis
Tate, Junius Clarence
Teaderman, Edward
Trosper, Francis Drake
Tunstall, Robert Noel
Turner, William Arthur, P. M.
Van De Mark, George Franklin
Watson, James Reade, P. M.
Westcott, Oliver
-70

OFFICERS:

Charles Joseph Schmelz, Master, · · William Lester Cole, Sen. Deacon,
Rionido, Cal.
Omar Ouo Cobb, Jun . Deacon,
Willard Chester Cole, Sen. Warden, David Hetzel, Marshal,
Francis Drake Prosper, Jun. Ward., Newton ]. Grider, Steward,
Oliver Wescott, Treasurer,
Thomas F. Duncan, Steward,
David Benjamin Peugh, Secretary,
Marshall Florence, T3•ler.
Guerneville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abbey, Alfred Bailhache
Florence, Marshall
Austin, David Lee
Gilliam, James Mitchell
Austin, John Overton
Grider, Lorenzo Theodore
Ayers, William Henry Martin
Grider, Newton Jackson
Bagley, Herbert Lincoln, P. M.
Hasek, Frank Joseph
Bartholomew, James Sherman
Reason, George Walker
Beattie, John, P. M.
Hetzel, David
Bell, Bradford
Ingram, Park Raymond
Bohn, Frederick
Irwin, Joseph Wesley
Brown, Chester Brock
Keaton, John Jefferson
Campbell, James Madison
King, William
Carr, Charles Fremont
Klein, Charles Frederick
Chapman, George Grayson
Kormel, Charles Edward
Cobb, Omer Otto
Many, Edward
Cole, Williard Chester
Martin, Lauren Maucine ,
Cole, William Lester
McCray, Warren
Duncan, Thomas Fludcn
McDonald, Malcom

Banks, James Asa

DIED:
Ungewitter, Henry West

SILVER GATE LODGE, No. 296.
San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Francis Covert, Master,
Asa Roderick Jones, Chaplain,
4049 Eagle St., San Diego.
Marius Hansen Quitsow, Sen. Deac.,
William G. Barth, Senior Warden, John Jay Manny, Jun. Deacon,
John Philip Brogle, Jun. Warden, Charles Herbert Banks, Marshal,
Frank Augustus Frye, Treasurer,
John Quillar Symons, Steward,
Joseph Henden;on Francis, Secretary, Eugene Hoffman, St~ward,
220 W. Beach St., San Diego.
Arthur Burton Haxton, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Acheson, Nathan Bailey
Allan, Roy Carson
Alexander, Wm. Eugene
Almgren, Louis, Jr.
Anderson, Gottfred
Andrews, Stanley Phillips

Anthony, Herbert Elam
Appleton, Charles Reuben
Ator, Charles Franklin
A~wood, Arthur Dwight
Bachman, Joseph Sylvester
Bailey, James Harvey

486
Baldwin, Henry
Banks, Alfred Edward
Banks, Charles Herbert
Bates, Oscar Winfield
Barber, George Ethelbert
Barrows, Clarence Harmon
Barrow, Lucius Rea
Barth, William G.
.lJeach, Henry Ward
Beach, John Chauncey
Beeson, Harry Craig
Benoit, Victor
Bent, Roland Theo.
Benton, Charles Herbert
Benton, William C.
Billing, John
Binder, George Fred 'k Wm.
Blair, Thomas Phinnan
Bloom, Joe
Bode, George Elton
Boyd, Robert
Boyle, Daniel
Bradley, Andrew Joseph
Brassington, Edwin George
Brelin, Gustaf, P. M.
Brilliant, Jesse Josephus
Brisco, Thomas
Brisco, William Rigg
Brogle, John Philip
Brooks, George Waddell
Brown, Edward Leslie
Brown, Stephen
Bruschi, Virgilio Geacomo
Bryant, Benjamin Wellington
Bub, Henry Randolph
Bub, Karl Fredric
Burbeck, Edward Mitchell
Butler, Charles Ernest
Butler, Edwin Isaac
Butler, George
.l:lye, Charles Richard
Campbell, John
Campbell, John C.
Carey, George Washington
Carr, Geo. Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER
Cassidy, Jamee Henry, P. M.
Cathcart, John Lee
Cesmat, Leon
Chaney, Harry Samuel
Chilton, Ulysses Grant
Chilton, William Brown
Christopher, William Henry
Clark, James Smith
•
Clarke, Virdal Cushing
Cochran, Joseph Sterling
Cochran, Milton Adair
Coffman, Warren Archie
Cohen, Jacob
Collins, James Kemp
Combs, Oscar Thomas
Comstock, Merton M.
Conlin, Claude Alexander
Cornell, Anson Fiske, P. M.
Covell, George Leonard Porter
Covert, John Francis
Cowles, John Timothy
Crandall, Wesley Clarence
Creelman, Lawrence Aug., P. M.
Crolic, Edward
Cronan, Philip. George
Cross, Leroy Carson
Cross, Nathan Park
Cummings, Alton Buel
Cunningham, Hiram Howard
Daley, Henry
Daly, Kieran
Daney, Eugene, P. M.
Darst, Thomas Babbitt
Dauchy, Arthur Homer
Deacon, Daniel Arthur
DeFerrari, Joseph Charles
Dickenson, Edgar William
Doddridge, Frank
Doddridge, William Henry
Doores, James Edgar
Dort, Ernest Wells
Downs, Benjamin Fuller
Doyle, .Tarvis Lathrope, P. M.
Duggan, John Michael
Dyas, Francis Raymond

Etlwards, Alfred Geo.
Ehrman, Henry Stephens
Elliott, Albert Jeremiah
Elliott, Fred 'k William
Elliott, Clyde Ellis
Endsley, Jesse Parker
Ernsting, Christian William
Escher, John Frecteric
Essig, William Henry
Fallai, Guy
Fano, Edward Aaron
Farnsworth, Frank Marshall
Ferris, Carlisle Iverson
Fletcher, Edward
Flint, Winfield Scott
Fisher, Jesse David
Fortune, Dorell La
Foster, Walter Leonard
Fradkin, Joseph
Francis, Joseph Henderson
Frey, Sigmund
Frisbie, Herbert Bert
Frye, Frank Augustus, P. M.
Furguson, Willinm Joseph
Garner, George Huet, P. M.
Garrett, Arthur Owen
Gaston, William Wallace, Jr.
Gantt, Arthur Durham
Gearhart, Wilber Fiske
Gibson, Henry Lawrence
Gill, Paul Carl
Gillet, Lyman Elsworth
Gittings, Ason R.
Golay, Huburt Louis
Grandier, Frank
Gray, Charles Peter
Green, Jay Homer
Greene, Wilber Eugene
Grier, Samuel Wood
Gunn, Chester Douglas
Hailey, Robert Coleman
Hakes, Charles Clifford
Hakes, J,edyard Burdette
Halbretter, William
Hall, Wilbert Nathan

Halley, Robert Taylor
Hansen, George
Hardy, Charles Saunders
Harper, Russell Wallace
Harris, Felix
Harrison, George Richard
Haxton, Arthur Burton
Haley, George Allen
Hays, Robert
Hays, William Wallace
Henning, Thomas James
Hertzbrun, Jacob Seymore
Hess, George
Hinman, Arthur Louis
Hinman, Benjamin Lewis
Hitchcock, Tim Henry
Hoag, Irwin Warren
Hoar, Thomas Charles
Hoberecht, Albert
Hoffman, Eugene Max
Holbrook, William Jerome
Holmquist, Charles William
Holmquist, Claus
Holmquist, Carl Alfred
Holt_, Lloyd
Hopkins, Ralph Allen
Hornbeck, Edson A.
Horstman, Arthur William
Hower, Robert Milton
Hulburd, Ebenezer Wallace
Hyers, Fred Cornelius, P. M.
Ingram, Wm. Baker
Irones, Rutherford Buchard
Jackson, Fred 'k Otho
'
Jennings, 1''rank Newby
.Johnston, John D.
Johnstone, Albert Edward, P. M.
Johnstone, Harry Smith
Johnstone, James Simpson
Jones, Alfred
Jones, As·a Roderick, P. M.
Jones, William Del
Julian, Charles Hueston
Kaford, Theo. Lawrence
Kaidel, John Theo.

4.Si

I I

488

Katz, Philip Carl
Kearney, John Edgar
Keil, Charles George
Keith, Weldon Albert
Kelly, John Lincoln
King, Enoch Leander
Kinser, Enoch Calvin·
Klein, David
Klein, Joseph
Kneale, Thomas
Kneale, William
Kurtz, John Bloxham
Kuter, Carl Edward
Landis, William
Layman, Eugene Milton
Lawson, James
Lees, William Franklin
Linda!, Jacob
Lowell, George Willard
MacKenzie, Alfred Gordon
Malmberg, Nils
Mannix, Daniel Edmund
Manny, John Gay
Marks, Charles Leonard, P. M.
Marshall, Oscar Darlington
Marshall, Otta
Martin, David Senter
Martinson, George Morenton
Macfarlane, Paul William
McAllister, Albert
McBride, Arthur Charles
McClure, Valorus Fremont
McCreesh, Wm. Charles
McDnell, Charles Edward
McGar, Percy Herbert
McKenzie, Bernard Wright
Mcinnis, Magness
Merrill, John Gale
Mertzman, Frank
Meza, Gustave
Mingle, Charles T. P.
Moore, Arthur Eugene
Moran, Alford
Morgan, Cadivor
Naylor, Francis Bryon

ROSTER
N ea!, Moses R.
Neely, William Thomas
Newcomb, Richard Lawrence
0 'Farrell, Fred
0 'Neil, James Clifford
Olson, Robert Emil
Osborn, Charles Edward
Overshiner, Chas. Lloyd
Pandel, Michael
Parker, George Archibalc
Parker, Peter James
Parkhurst, Walter
Parks, George Milton
Parks, George Washington
Payne, Thomas
Peak, James Hoadley
Peirce, Eldred Edward
Peterson, William Jall!eB
Phillips, Edwin Theophilus
Phillips, George Anilrew
I?hillips, George Washington
Phillips, Herbert D.
Pohonoe, Albert Abift'
Pierce, Julian Clayton
Pollock, Harold Kent
Provin, H. Clyde
Quayle, Charles
Quitsow, Marius Hansen
Rafert, William Henry.
Randall, Francis Marion
Rehn, George William
Reinfrank, George Frank
Reinoehl, Claude Abraham
Robinson, Fred Hanson
Rockhill, Clement
Rogan, Nat
Sampson, Frank Norman
Santee, Addison J.
Schenck, Wesley William
Schlesinger, Louis
Schrader, Adolph
Schrader, Charles Adolph
Schultheiss, Herman Martin
Schultz, Julius August
Scrivener, William Douglas

ROSTER

48\l

Trepte, Moritz
Shannon, Frank Curtis
Updegraff, William Henry
Shaw, Francis Albert Thomson
Van Blarcom, William Dixon, Jr.
Shepard, William Milton
Vergon, James
Siebert, John Selman
Wade, William Edwar<l.
Sill, Peter
Walker, Frank Lawrence
Sillman, Guy Cummings
Walker, James Henry Morgan
Slater, Charles Denison
Walke, William
Smith, Everet Owens
Wandry, Bf?no John
Smith, Ernest Howard
Watkins, Archie E.
Smith, Henry Francis
Watkins, Edwin Phillip
Smith, Walter Clinton
Weiland, Edward Lewis
Smith, William Henry
W elisch, Herman
Smith, William Mifflin
Wellington, Charles Irwin
Snyder, Nelson Spencer
Wellington, Roy Connor
Solter, Edwin Morris
Wendel, Frederick
Spriggs, Frederick Henry
Westcott, John Clark
Stafford, John
Wheeler, James Samuel
Stalnaker, Russell Howard
White, Martin Grove
Stanley, Thomas D_onald
Wilson, William
Stead, Grove DeForest
Willard, Harry M.
Steade, James Milton
Winter, Max
Steinbach, Louis, Jr.
Wittemore, Arthur Dewitt
Sweet, Adelbert Hiram, P. M.
Wolf, Edward Wm. Julius Lewis
Symon~, John Quiller
Wolfson, Dagobert
Taber, Homer Galen
Woolman, Claude
Tarr, Clarence Lincoln
Wood, John Andrew
Taylor, Robert William
Wright, Charles Robert
Telson, Frank Callson
Wright, Orlando 8.
Thompson, Ellis Howard
Wroughton, Edwin Roy
Thompson, Harrold Alvin
Ziegler, George Leslie
Thorp, Milton Rollin
Ziegler, Piter Baugh
Toms, George Ernest
Zuckweiler, Gustave Charles
Tounsend, Lester Folkes
-349
Trachsel, William Riard
wrrHDRAWN:
Howe, Henry
•Brittain, William Henry
Robinson, Thomas
tCiements, Austin Henry
Rude, Clark Burgess
Davis, Frank Eugene
*Toews, Ma:x John
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Robinson, Malcom Cameron
Cavanaugh, James Paul
EXPELLED:
Cavoli, Ettori

490

ROSTER

Airhart, William Henry
Buck, Adam
Cantrell, David Gooding
Gelston, Thomas Norton

DIED:
Ireland, Joseph
McKenzie, George M.
Morey, Charles Eugene
Paine, Castanus
Taylor, Archibald

•Degrees conferred during the year.
Affiliated during the year.

DUNSMUIR LODGE. No. 297.
Dunsmuir, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Francis Cuming Nourse, Master,
Jeffery William Hawkins, Chaplain,
Dunsmuir, Cal.
llyron Franklin Dunn, Sen. D~acon,
William Robert Lee, Senior Warden, William Henry McCoy, Jim. Deacon,
Howard Ellsworth Huls, J. Warden, James Carson Gardner, Marshal,
Gustav Albert Hutaff, Treasurer,
Frank Lincoln Weamer, Steward,
Delbert Westley Kilborn; Secretary, Daniel Levy, Steward,
Dunsmuir, Cal.
Ferdinand Henry Dorsaz, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Fred
,~ tkins, John Hugh
Banfield, Harry Wentworth
Bates, Sidney Lloyd
Beecher, Gus Clements
Benson, Harry Valentine
Botts, James Monroe
Bowen, Elisha J.
Brazelton, Marion William
Brown, Herbert Ernest
Bryan, Percy Abbott
Campbell, John Milton
Carnahan, Charles Abraham
Clark, George Burt
Clark, Shelton
Cornish, Joseph Edwin
Culver, Alex. Eugene
Culver, James Dallas

Cuvellier, Rene William
Dolensky, Rudolph
Dorsey, Fernand Henry
Dougherty, Charles Fremont
Duggan, Charles Martin
Du Bose, John Evans
Dunn, Byron Franklin, P. M.
Elfendahl, Ernest William
Ellis, William Ned
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, P. M.
Engwicht, George
Eubanks, Calvin
Fitz Gerald, John Willard
Flynn, Robert Purcell
Gardner, James Carson, P. M.
Gotthold, Julius Charles
Hallisey, James
Harrison, Charles

ROSTER
Harter; Albert Ely
Hawkins, Jeffrey William, P. M.
Herron, Henry S.
Hill, Samuel Henry
Hobart, Frederick Edward
Hollis, Fred John
Hughes, John Stowell
Huls, Howard Ellsworth
Hunter, Robert
Hutaff, Gustav Albert, P. M.
Jenkins, Walter Storey
Judy, Fred Vardan
Kilborn, Delbert Westley
Kilborn, Harry Alden
Lambert, Luther Jackson
Land, Henry Augustus
Lee, William Robert, P. M.
Leight, William Alexander
Levy, Alex., P. M.
Levy, Daniel
Levy, Joseph
Malone, George Edward
Marriner, Wilbert Plimington
Maxey, Walter Lewis
McCoy, George Watson, P. M.
McCoy, William Henry
Millnru, George Ellis
Miller, Henry Valentine
Neeley, David Arthur
Nourse, Francis Cumming, P. M.
Nunamaker, Walter D.
Petch, Philip Henry
Reagan, Edwin D.
Roberts, William Bailey, P. M.

Robertshaw, James
Russell, James Edward
Salzman, George S.
Sanford, William Elmer
Saunders, James Lee
Schemmerling, Frederick Gustav
Schandel, Matthias Charles
Schultze, William Austin
Shearer, George E<lwar<l
Silva, Louis
Small, William Thomas
Smith, Ernest William
Stuckey, Harrison F.
Tarter, Horace Van
Thompson, Charles Elliott
Trudgeon, William George
Van Vactor, Wm. Emmett
Victory, W. H.
Walters, John William
Walthers, Harry Lincoln, P. M.
Ward, Charles Rawson
Weamer, Frank Lincoln
Wendell, Charlie Claude
Wentz, Henry
Wheeler, George Maurice
Wickes, Charles Elsworth.
Wilcox, Robert Burns
Wilkins, Alva Roswell
Williams, Albert Spen.:er
Williams, Walter Lee
Wilson, Harry W.
Winne, Charles W.
Woodin, Albert Henry

-103

WITHDRAWN:
Ibach, Charles W.

491

Grant, Joseph Clement

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Beard, John Augustus

ROSTER

492

ROSTER
WITHDRAWN:
Congdon, Edward P.

MOKELUMNE HILL LODGE, No. 298.
Mokelumne Hill, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John B. Sauve, Cliaplain,
Claude Allison Berry, Master,
Arthur Maasberg, Senior Deacon,
Glencoe, Cal.
··························-········• Senior Warden, Richard Maasberg, Junior Deacon,
...................................., Junior Warden, ...................................., Marshal,
Samuel Lewis Davidson, Treasurer, ···························-········ Steward,
Eugene E . Bruce, Secretary,
·································-·• Steward,
John B. Day, Tyler.
Mokelumne Hill, Cal.

Bernardi, Frank

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.
Courtmarch, Frank 0.
Peek, Frank W.
Dondaro, Ben
Robinson, W. T.

LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings the first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

MEMBERS:
Barazini, Joseph
Bell, George
Berry, Clarence Allison, P. M.
Blake, Charles Henry
Burce, Eugene Edgar, P. M.
Chaffee, Frank
Champion, .Tohn
Congdon, George Julius
Cox, James Mason
Day, Charles Eugtme, P. M.
Day, Francis Henry, P. M.
Day. John Benjamin
Davidson, Samuel Louis
Davoust, William Loujs
Dell 'Orto, Joseph
EmeTBon, George
Flanders, Addison
Flanders, Henry Scribner
Gnecco, John
Guth, Charles
Harmon, Theodore
Hexter, Louis
Holbrook, Eugene Harvey
Houston, Harry Lee
Jones, Evan Llewellyn
Luke, Simon
l:,unt, Charles Richard

Maher, Edward
Massberg, Arthur 0.
Massberg, Richard C.
Mayer, Joseph
Miller, Ralph Anderson
Murry, Henry Gordon
Pattie, Joseph Henry
Peters, Thomas Conetantine, P. M.
Rathbun, Sylnan Ford
Read, Walter
Rodonovich, Joseph
Sauve, John Baptiste
Sch.Tag, Henry
Shute, John William
Smith, Claude T.
Smith, Sidney A.
Sterling, John Henry
Suessdorf. Frederick WHliam
Swithenbank, Albert A., P. M.
Taylor, Thomas William
Thompson, James Thomas
Thompson, Lewis Quinton
Towle, Franklin Zeba
Walker, John D.
Wilson, Bert
Wilson, Thomas Alex.
Yeager, Weldey Smith
-54

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

Adams, Frank Yale
Alden, Edward Henry
Angus, John Archie
Ayres, Clarence Mortimer
Baldwin, Sheldon Smith
Bearce, Hubert
Beattie, David A.
Beattie, John Irving
Beattie, :Murray
Benjamin, Otho Howard
Berry, John William
Birge, Fred Allen
Bishop, Ezra Francis
Bowdish, Melville l:::lherwood
Britton, Lewis Henry
Burckard, Loren Edward
Chase, Edward
Chickovich, George John
Chilson, William Charles
Clark, Earl Danforth
Conner, Alfred Woodham
Cox, Jacob Milon, P. M.
Cramer, George Franklin
Crittenden, Bradford S.

MEMBERS:
Curtis, William Hohnan
Darling, Paul Lindsley
Davidson, James Nelson
Dillon, Robert
Dixon, Mathew Alexander
Downing, George Lucas, P. M.
Durling, Perry Douglas
Eberhard, Henry Philip
Eberhard, John Jacob
Eberhard, Oscar Michael
Elkins, Frank Edgar
Falconer, James
Farley, Nye Lincoln
Fletcher, Alex. B.
Fredericksen, Adolph Peter
Gairaud, Louis
Gallup, Howard Augustus
Glendenning, James Edward
Goodrich, Edward Elizer
Gordon, Harry Virgil
Gruwell, Charles Lee
Gruwell, Lawrence Chriss
Hall, Wallace Johnson
Haman, Carl Wesley, P . M.

493

494

Hamilton, George Edward
Hamilton, Henry John
Hanscom, James Duane, P. M.
Hargreaves, Robert Henry
Harris, Albert
Hart, Richard Franklin, P. M .
Hayward, Wm. Frank
Hersey, Edward Johnson
Hillis, John Ralph
Hobson, Jesse Iris
Horst, William, Jr.
Hutchinson, James
Irwin, Samuel Joseph
Isham, Wallace Place
Jackson, Newton Senter
Johnson, Qarl Frederick
Johnson, Hans Christian
Johnson, William Henry
Karr, John Martin
Kent, Clianncy Davis
Kenyon, Eugene Crouse
Killam, Amos Franklin
Kimberlin, Louis Melvin, P. M.
Kohner, Ignatz
Kohner, Max, P. M.
Lamb, Earl
Landrum, Thomas Moore
Leonard, John
Lillick, Harry Andrew
Linderoth, Carl Arthur
Linderoth, Nels August
Long, Barney King
I,ong, Lafayette
MacDonald,' Clarence Lloyd
MacSwain, Alex. Reginald
Maddox, Daniel Irwih
Martin, Dougald Emmet
Mcintyre, Cyrus Albert
McWilliams, Glen
Menzel, George Teaford
Menzel, Henry August
Menzel, Robert Frank
Menzel, Robert, P. M.
Miller, Calvin Wilson
Miller, John James

Moore, John Thomas
Morling, Octavius Josiah
Morrison, John Cameron, P. M.
Morrison, Kenneth
Morrison, Lewis John
Muller, Otto
Myers, Horace Asbury, P. M.
Nelson, Virgil Elliott
Offield, Lorenzo Adolphus, P. M.
Packscher, Maurice Goodtime
Parker, Joseph McConnell, P. M.
Parker, Wilber Fiske
Percival, Freeman Foster .
Peterson, Antone
Phelps, Frank Dale
Pfister, Henry Adolph
Putnam, Tarrant
Quivey, Willard Henry
Raymond, William Creque, P. M.
Rayner, Thomas Elkanah
Regnart, Carl Wetherell
Regnart, Percy Stuart, P. M.
Relph, Ovid Samuel
Rhodes, Jay Cloyd Barras
Roberts, Franklin Henry
Roberts, William Edward
Roberts, William Henry
Roll, August Edward
Roll, John
Roop, George Benjamin
Rowe, Geo. David
Rucker, Robert Russel
Rusconi, Vincent
Russell, Alex. Allen McVicar
Russell, Hamilton McVicar
Russell, Lawrence
Sherma, Fred A.
Schiermeyer, Christopher J.
Shields, James Ralph
ShieMs, .Tames Robert, P. M.
Smith, Frank Nichols
Smith, George Warren
Smith, Spencer Monroe
Smith, Thomas Henry
Smith, William Henry

495

ROSTER

ROSTER

Snively, Daniel
Stelling, Henry Gottlieb
Stocking, Leonard Emiah
Taylor, John Moss, P. M.
Teubner, Gustave Louis
Thompson, Thomas S.
Trevarrow, Anthony
Trogden, Wiley Hudelston, P. M.
Tully, George Franklin
Tully, Sylvanus Giles
Underwood, Alex. Richard
Van Dine, Melvin Everett
Viets, Edgar John
Waelty, Edward Henrv

Wallace, David Norman
Waste, John Morton
Webster, Thornton Delos
Wern.e r, Willialll Henry
Weston, Samuel Hopkins
Wilkinson, Samuel Wallworth
Williams, Harry Lee
Withrow, Ralph Vargrave
Wood, Willard Abraham
Woodstock, William Douglas
Worrall, George H.
Worthington, Joseph Sharp
Wren, John Arthur
Zumwalt, Don John
-166

WITHDRAWN:
Coyne, Robert .Tohn

*Mabie, Irving Dorr
DIED:

Berry, Henry Sanfcrd
Emig, Frank Benjamin

Landrum, Andrew .Jefferson
Maehefert, Fred Leon Emile

•Degrees conferred during the year.

REDLANDS LODGE, No.

300.

Redlands, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

J

Homer P . D. Kingsbury, Master,
Ralph P . Smith, Chaplain,
Redlands, Cal.
· William Allen Hartman, Sen. Deur:.,
Charles Herbert Covell, Sen. Ward., Reese Davies, !u11. Deacon,
George S. Hinckley, Jun. Warden, James Albert Stone, Marshal,
Robert Morris Hamilton, Treasurer, Arthur Gilman Jackson, Steward,
Otto George Suess, Secretary,
Clarence Rall, Steward,
Redlands, Cal.
Samuel S. Waldo, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbey, Charles Coy
Alex, John Francis
Allen, Halsey Warren, P. M.
Ansley, James Gilbert
Ash, John Marshall

Austin, Milton Frye
Barker, George Henry
Barton, William Thomas
Ball, Archibald E.
Baughman, Ch.a rles H.

ROSTER

496

ROSTER

Bay, Alva Clinton
Beer, James Clark
Beeson, Samuel A.
Benjestorf, Alexander
Benson, Ralph William
Biggen, George Stanley
Bill, Wm. Thomas
Birch, James
Bishop, Peter Stephen
Blecha, Frank
Blomquist, Charles Albert
Boden, William Elmer
Borden, Robert Winslow
Bosserman, Ancel Thorne
Bosserman, Frank
Bowley, John
Branckman, Cornelius
Brock, Archibald Ellison
Brown, Charies Corey
Brown, Charles Milton, P. M.
Brunn, Christian P.
Bryan, Edwin Horace
Burk, Carl Gustave
Cameron, Andrew Charles
Campbell, Walter McNutt, P. M.
Cannon, Burton Eugene
Carlson, Carl Otto
Case, Alonzo
Case, Edward Earl
Cave, Bennett White
Champion, Fred
Chapman, Samuel J.
Churchill, Lucius F.
Clark, Fred Adam
Clark, Lemuel Watson
Clement, Henry George
Clock, Charles Livingston
Clock, Charles H.
Clock, Fred H., P. M.
Collins, A. Harvey
Cook, Alexander Bradshaw
Cook, Roy
Cook, William Omar
Cope, Edward Mitchell
Cortner, George Paul ,

Counts, Harry Eyer
Covell, Charles Herbert
Crafts, George Herbert
Davies, Rees
Davis, Alva Sylvester
Davis, Charles E.
Deck, Lewis
Deming, Harvey Clayton
Dewey, Willet Everett
Donnell, Otto Willis
Dostal, John Frank
Drake, James Frederick, P. M.
Drake, Robert Zale
Ehrenelou, Alfred H.
Estle, Charles Bernard
Fellows, Lewis Merritte
Ferguson, William Tecumseh
Field, Jasper Newton
:irine, William Isaac
Fitzsimmons, Michael H.
Ford, Harry Henderson
Fuller, Charles Edward
Gaines, Harvey Sylvester
Gaylord, Clinton Gilbert
Gore, John Wesley
Grow, Arthur Earl
Guthrie, Edmond Pierce
Hagan, John Reese
Hale, Charles Augustus
Hall, Cassius M.
Hamilton, John W.
Hamilton, Robert Morris, P. M.
Harris, Frederick Thomas
Hartman, William Allen
Hatch, Albert Wilson
Hayward, Theron
Heitman, John Barston
Henderson, James
Hendrickson, Andrew J·ackson
Herrmann, Frederick
Hewitt, Albert Murray
Hill, Howard Gilman
Hinckley, George S.
Hird, John Preston
Hobart, Charles H., P. M.

t

Hope, Herbert J.
Hough, Ira Millard
liorne, Harry, P. M.
Hoyt, Charles Harmon
Hubbard, Anthony Gerhard
Hunt, Paul Henry
Jackson, William Everett
Johnson, Benton Oscar
Johnson, Nathan Augustus
Johnson, William M.
Keating, Alexander
Kelsey, Carl J.
Kennard, George Gilbert
Kennedy, Duncan
Kerr, John Angus Heber
King, Anderson Whitne7
King, Lymon Maurice, P. M.
Kingsbury, Homer P. Donaldson
Kline, William N.
Koehler, George William
Larue, William T.
Laird, Alex.
Lashlee, Claude Harmon
Latham, Charles Elliott, P. M.
Leland, George H.
Levering, Noah Lee, P. M.
Link, Sylvester
Long, Frank Law
MacDonald, David Grey
Mason, Richard A.
Mccaslin, James Alex.
McCoy, Henry Angus
McNairn, William Daniel
McWhorter, Cyrus S.
Medland, Thomas James
Medland, William
Meserve, Frank Pierce, P. M.
Metcalf, Waltllr Gastick
Milligan, Joseph C.
Montgomery, George Washington
Montigel, Ferdinand
Montigel, .James Ralph
Montigel, William Hildreth
Moore, Andrew A.
32

I

""

497

Moore, Elliott Augustus
Moore, Paul Walter
Moore, William Herbert
Morris, George H.
Morrison, Frank Pierce
Mosbough, Edwin Harvey
Myers, Christian David
Neuls, Geo. W.
Neuls, Joseph Dale
Nowell, Gilbert Monroe
Nutter, Frank Wilbur
Ogden, Thomas Albert
0 'Kelley, Robert Charles
Osbu~, Albert
Peel, Thomas Leopold
Peifer, Phillip·
Phinney, Mellen Davis
Phinney, Mellen Mosher
Perry, Joseph Edward
·P ierce, Martin Frank, P. M.
Plano, Wm. Frank
t'ondstone, Jacob
Pool, George Anthony
Porter, Orin
Prendergast, Jeffrey Joseph, P. M.
Pugh, Owen Fowlkes
Putnam, Willis E.
Pyle, William Lamborn, P. M.
Reed, David Craig, P. M.
Reesor, Arthur E.
Reid, Clarence Samuel
Richardson, John Franklin
Risher, Charles Bayha
Rivera, Joseph Apollo
Rowe, George Wallingford
Rucher, Rolle John
Runge, Frederick Wm.
Sanborn, Christopher Allen
Sanborn, Clifton E.
Sanford, Frank Eugene
Seager, Herbert W.
Sellers, Cormi P.
Setchfield, Richard
Show, David Augustus

ROSTER

498
Shuford, Thomas Robert
Skuce, Charles Elbin
Smith, Sydney Trowbridge
Sparks, Earl Leland
Springberg, Alfred Emile
Steams, Augustus George
Steele, Louis Seymour
Stefan, Freclerick Joseph
Stewart, William Hugh
Stone, James Albert, P. M.
Sucher, Gordon Edgar
Suess, Jacob John, P. M.
Suess, Otto George
Tayler, George Frank
Taylor, Albert Edwin, P. M.
Thaxter, George C. ·
Thornquist, John Theodore
Thornton, Thomas
True, Alfred Adam
Truesdell, Charles E.
Tuck, Edward Payson
Bowen, Willard Adam
Browning, Charles Clifton

499

ROSTER

Turrill, Gardner Stilson
Tyler, Hoell
Vahey, Charles E.
Van Leuven, William Henry
Walcha, Albert George
Waldo, Samuel S.
Watson, Wm. V.
Wells, Karl Colby
White, William Lewis
Wilkins, Charles Henry
Williams, Edgar
Williams, Silas
Willinms, William Griffiths
Wilmot, Paul Walter
Wilshire, Bert Loarn
Wollfin, George Hugh
Worley, Henry Elmer
Wright, Carey Thomas
Yost, Charles
Zimmerman, Milton

ONTARIO LODGE, No.

301.

Ontario, San Bemardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.

•

OFFICERS:
Kenneth Dunbar Blaikie, Master,
Wilbur Walstein Smith, Chaplain,
Ontario, Cal.
John Ralph Steele, Senior Deacon,
William John Campbell, S. Warden, William Earl Ellis, Junior Deacon,
William Horace Gorbett, J. Ward., Benjamin Franklin Warmer, Mar.,
John George Beesley, Treasurer,
William Walter Wildman, Steward,
Robert Orwig Brackenridge, Sec'y, Earle Townsend Casler, Steward,
Ontario, Cal.
Isaac Whitaker Whitaker, Tyler,

-229
WITHDRAWN:
Craig, Albert West
Hartig, Charles ~.
*Patton, Herbert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUl~S:
Jloberick, John Jo11eph
Rockwell, Sidney Eason
Wallaee, John Easton

Sparks, David Ernest
Woodside, William

•Restored during the year.

••

MEMBERS:
Abrams, Elijah Danforth
De Arman, Frank Trundell
Andrews, Josias J.
Deverts, Charles Oliver
Donnelly, Thomas
Armstrong, Abel
Armstrong, John Samuel
Durfee, Uly55es Grant
Beesley, George Edward
Dysart, Francis J.
Beesley, John George
Elliott, George Bethel
Bennink, Cornelius G. Henry
Ellis, William Earl
Berg, Howard
Ensley, Oliver Perry
Fairall, William Tilman
Berger, John Henry
Berger, Sheridan G.
Fallis, George Frederick
Berning, Augustus
Foote, William Burr.
Blaikie, Kenneth Dunbar
Ford, Charles Benjamin, P . M.
Blaikie, William Francis, P. M.
·Frankish, Charles
Blain, Charles Edward, P. M.
Fredendall, John Frank
Brackenridge, Robert Orwig
Freemire, Wellington A.
Brunner, Edward
Frost, John
Burleson, Esta Bernard
Frost, Wilham Henry
Bybee, Eugene S.
Fuller, Everett Hampton
Bybee, Geo. McClellan
Gaither, Oscar La Rude
Garbutt, Ross Petch
Campbell, William John
Caldwell, Edward Vollom
Glass, Silas Franklin
Catto, William
Glenn, Byron Price
Chee!, Stanley George
Gorbett, William Horace
Chipps, William Clay
Gottwald, Otto
Clarke, John A.
Hatcher, James Henderson, P. M.
Cohn, John Edward
Hawkinson, Nels Wm.
Cook, Joseph Brady
Henry, Everett Wilfred
Henry, William Penn
Gramley, Frank Hilgurt
Cutler, Lewis Tasheira
Hickox, Clark Albert

500

ROSTER

Hill, Eugene Leroy
Payne, Jesse Howard
Hodgkins, William Wirt
Payne, William Edward
Phillips, John Henry
Holbrook, George Robert
Poole, Thomas
Holbrook, Jay
Price, Jesse Alves
Howard, George F.
Reed, James Perry
Hubbell, Harold C.
Riggs, Benjamin H.
Huehn, John Norman
Ripple, John Raymond
Ingalls, John Stewart
Ripple, Lewis
Jesson, Jacob
Jesson, Robert Harold
Robertson, John Polk
Johnston, George Francis
Rosenberger, William Dayton
Ross, Frank Augustus
Jones, Isaac, P. M.
Russell, Solon Young
Jones, James C.
Schwuchow, Walter Bernard
Kuhlmann, Henry Hermann
Scott, John
Kustel, Cassimir Berringer
Shattuck, Howard Montrose
Lee, Dorr B.
Shay, Henry James
Lee, L~ne R.
Shepherd, Benjamin Chaffey, P. M.
Leeson, Richard H.
Sheppard, Christopher
Lewis, John Hamilton
Short, Richard Childs
Linder, Lee
Smart, Elliott Plummer
Lord, George Johnston
Smith, Benj. Alexis
Magill, Robert David
Smith, James St. Clair
Malone,' William Lewis
Smith, Lovias Oliver Perry H.
Mann, Bathurst Billers
Smith, Wilbur Walstein, P. M.
Martin, Ora Fenner
Spencer, John
McCann, Lewis Erastus
Spencer, Ripley F.
McCrea, George Arthur
Spies, Henry Alvin
McCurdy, Glen~ Walter
Steele, John Ralph
McMinn, James L.
McQuigg, Martin Van Buren, P. M. Steele, William Perry
Sweeten, Clyde Lamont
Merrill, Lewis E.
Thompson, Albert Henry
Merrill, William Kern
Traphagen, Charles S.
Minter, Frank
Unholz, Frederick Edward
Moore, Cassius Fremont
Vandegrift, Samuel G.
Moore, William Albert
Van Wie, Clarence Deuel
Morris, John Todd
Warmer, Benjamin Franklin
Morrison, Angus M.
Watson, George Gaylord
Murphy, William Roe
Whitaker, Isaac Whitaker
Newton, Roy Dewitt
Whitford, Samuel
Nigh, Leon Everett
Wildman, William Walter
Orr, Charles Stockdale
Williams, Bertram Elilred
Ostran, Petrus E.
Wright, Jake Cullen
Parkford, Edwin Alston
Zenze, Anton
-146
Payne, Ernest Ellsworth

ROSTER

,.

Bates, William Wheatley
Greene, William Stevenson

WITHDRAWN:
Hand, Clifford Nott
Stang, Louis George

Gillett, Mortimer Spencer

DIED:
Mayben, Jay D.

r;o J

SANTA LUCIA LODGE, No. 302.
King City, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Baptiste Campbell, Master,
George Philip Henry, Chaplain,
King City, Cal.
Walter Johnston Lumley, Sen. Deac.,
Jorgen Christian Falkenberg, S. Wd., Raymond Christian Falkenberg,/. D.,
William Clayton Hamilton, Jr. Ward., Robert Ralston Allen, Marshal,
John Wasson, Treasurer,
Harry Boggis, Steward,
Johaq Alfred Carlson, Secretary,
Glen Raymond Short, Steward,
King City, Cal.
Henry Arthur.Kent, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aaroe, Anton
Copley, Andrew Jackson
Allen, Robert Ralston, P. M.
Cowan, Walter Thomas
Allen, William Robert
Falkenberg, Jorgen Christ,ian, P. M.
Annear, William
Falkenberg, Raymond Christian
Basham, Robert Matteson
Gates, Frederick Wm.
Beane, John . Worlock
George, Joseph Wm.
Beebe, Frank Merritt, P. M.
Giaeomazzi, Silviero Frank
Besse, John Nelson, P. M.
Goldstine, Aaron, Jr.
Bingaman, Elmer Wiley
Hall, Herbert
Boggis, Harry
Hamilton, William Clayton. P. M.
Branstetter, William M., P. M.
Harbolt, John Fielding
Brown, James M.
Harris, Robert Uriah
Buckhart, Charles Murray
Head, William Richard K.
Bunte, Herman Dietrich
Henry, George Philip, P. M.
Bunte, Samuel Nahman
Juhl, Gregorious Frederick
Burrows, Hubert Augustus
Kent, Henry Arthur
Caldwell, George
Lang, Hans Jasperson
Campbell, John Baptiste
Leese, David
Carlson, Johan Alfred
Lumley, Wnlter Johnaton, P. M.
Conrad, George William
Mann, Wm. Joseph

002

ROEl'iER '

Mardon, John B.
McReynolde, Arthur Benoni
Miller, Edward William
Palmer, Frank Lowell
Patterson, Alex., P. M.
Prewitt, John Calhoun
Rist, Albert A.
Rice, John Henry
Sainz, Robert
Schroeder, Frederick William
Schumann, Hugo Joseph
Smith, Percy Hatton

HOST EH

Steiner, Chas. Leopold
Stevenson, William Grant, P. M.
Talbot, David Paul
Tomaso, Franecioni
Tompkins, Herman N.
Van Derhoof, Delbut Rea
Wallis, Daniel Whitfield
Wasson, John
Wetzel, Harry Edward
Woode, Albion Oalis
Woods, Walter Trew

-63

WITHDRAWN:
Westlake, Frank Harloe

'l'horpe, George C.

, SUSPENDED .FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Domianovich, Charles Frank
Montgomery, Herbert Chester
Hanning, Charles Albert
Sawyer, Charles Waite
Witham, James Edward
DIED:
Hamilton, Thomas Scott

PORTERVILLE LODGE, No. 303.
Porterville, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John August Leslie, Master,
Jacob Franklin Boller. Chaplain,
Porterville, Cal.
Charles Thompson Holston, S. Dcac.,
Charles Clark Farnsworth, S. Ward., Edward Grant Shore, Ju11. Deacon,
Herman Sumner Templeton, !. W., Allan Rutherford Laidlaw, Marshal,
Wilko Mentz, Treasurer,
Albert Terwilliger, Steward,
George C. Murphy, S ccretar·y,
Roy G. Labaschotte, Steward,
Porterville, Cal.
Gustave August Ekman, Tyler.

Abbey, Laurence Ernest
Aitken, Thomas Gardner
Allen, Benjamin
Badoux, Louis Emile

MEMBERS:
Baker, Nils
Baker, Swan
Baier, Phillip Murray
Barbero, Charles Gardner

'

503

Guthrie, Chas. Lester
Barbero, Harry Lee
Bearss, Frederick Ellewor~h, P. M. Hale, George Hoyle
Hall, John Dallas
Bearse, Jolin Theodore
Hathaway, Harry May
Bigham, Charles Erastus
Hayes, George
Bird, Arthur Reginald
Hayes, Jamee Crayton
Black, Franklin Ellsworth
Henderson, Thomas Edward
Bolfing, Charles Thomas
Henry, Rufus Francis
Boller, Frank Villette
Hewey, John William Erne!ft
Boller, Jacob Franklin, P. M.
Higgins, Charles Raymond
Brey, Iliram F., P. M.
Higgins, Orient C.
Brooke, William Herbert
Higgins, Robert Musgrave
Bryant, Albert George
Hodges, Charles Parker
Burford, Marvin Alvah
Holston, Chae. Thompson
Bushey, Rollin Lee
Hoobler, Samuel
Buswell, · Charles William
Hoover, Joseph Laird
Carpenter, Byron Leonard
Horbach, Robert, P. M.
Carr, Harry Cumming
Hornback, Hugh Horland
Carr, John Lawrence
Hornbeak, Montgomery Adams
Carr, Obed William, P. M.
Hough, Seymour Strong
Carter, Henry Barton
Howell, Jamee
Castle, Wm. Hastings
Howell, John Andrew
Clark, Frank
Hughes, Hugh John
Claubes, Leslie Vineyard
James, John Henry
Claubee, Harry Erving
Kennedy, Frank L.
Clanbee, Todd Cornelius, P. M.
Kessler, Joseph Pyle
Colyer, Jamee Thomas
Kiler, Wm. Henry
Conger, Chae. Thompson
King, Guilford Dudley
Cramer, Moses Lockhart
Kunuth, Walter Anthony
Cruickshank, William
Laidlaw, Allan Rutherford, P. M.
Da videon, Frank Marion
Lambdin, Harry Willis
DeWitt, Marcus Elmo
Laney, Archie Franklin
Ekman, Gustaf Adolf
Langford, Geo. Sherman
Etter, Albert
Laumeieter, Leslie William
Farnsworth, Charles Clark, Jr.
Lawrence, George Edward
Feemster, Robert Frank
Leslie, Andrew
Flaugher, John Daulton
Leslie, Andrew Allan
Foster, Lincoln G.
Leslie, Frederick Arthur
Frame, Harvey Andrew
Leslie, John Autuet
Frame, Jesse Elmer
Leslie, William Walter
Frankum, George Taylor
Lewie, James Sylvanus
George, Calvin Harold
Gilbert, Samuel Jonathan R., P. M. Lockyer, George
Lockyer, John Burns
Grant, Walter Adams
Lucy, Cornelius Joshua
Grant, William Henry
Lumley, Aubrey Montague
Greenough, Carl Rutherford

..
504

Lumley, Gerald Robert
Shore, Edward Grant
McAulifl', Leslie
Southwick, Frank Herbert
McCourt, Chester Elwood
Stone, Frederick
McDonald, Robert Henry
Sturm, Daniel
Mcintyre, Thomas
Sutherland, Bert John
McKeany, Edward Montgomery
'l'aylor, Elmore Rice
Mentz, Wilko
Templeton, Herman Sumner
Mitchell, Joseph
Templeton, Hugh
Mitchell, Michael
Templeton, John Lee
MoolJ)aw, John Wesley
Templeton, Sardis W~lcox
Mooney, William J.
Terwilliger, Albert
Murphy, George Christopher, P. M. Traeger, Charles Albert
Murray, Allan
Traeger, Henry Godfrey
Murry, George Gordon
Ulmer, Joseph Ames
Nesbitt, Charles Wesley
Velie, Fred Ward, P. M.
Newbury, Andrew Jacks·on
Wade, Joseph Goleman
Owen, Levi Milton
Ward, Jackson Orin
Parsons, Adam Riggs
Weed, Clarence Hampton
Parsons, Elmus Fisher
Wessman, John August
Phillips, William Bamber
1Vhite, Ernest Nathaniel
Pohlman, Leo Louis
Williams, Robert George, P. M.
Price, Thomas Lawrence
Williams, Robert Geo., Jr.
Putnam, Willie Porter
Williamson, George Alfred
Willis, George Watson
Reinhardt, Harry Joseph
Reynolds, Amos H.
Winteni, Lewis Williams
Wolfe, Alonzo D.
R1>berts, Joseph Lazarus
Wolff, Morris
Sayre, Alfred Miller
Woodley, Frank Erwin
Schulz, Adolph Gustave, P. M.
Wright, Hiram Roy
Schulz, Harry August, ·P . M.
Wright, Joseph Franklin, P. M.
Schulz, Lou Ernest
Wright, William Whitfield
Scott, Eugene Louis
Young, William Moore
-172
Settle, James Pendleton
Shippey, Walter Sylvester, P. M.
WITHDRAWN:
Corydon, Bee Root

Parsons, Charles Jenkens
DIED:

Masner, Joseph Wilfert
Myrick, Francis Byran

ROSTER

ROSTEK

Ward, Jackson Smith
White, James Smith

aCfi

REEDLEY LODGE, No. 304.
Reedley, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.

'I

,,

OFFICERS:
Frederick William Davis, Master,
Steen Hagen, Senior Deacon,
Reedley, Cal.
Thomas Cresar, Junior Deacon
James Roy Cox, Set1ior Warden,
Albert Taylor Simpson, MC1rshal,
David Bedow Harris, Jun. Warden, William Thomas Bloyd, Steward,
Marion Deneen, Treasurer,
Alfred Schloenvogt, Tyler.
John Arthur Ewy, Secretary,
Reedley, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Howell, Charles Franklin
Hunter, William
Jones, Chester Clarke Rex
Larsen, Nels
Lombardi, Julius Caesar
Mathews, Carey Woods
McBriar, John
McClanahan, Allen Ensley
McCubbin, John Cameron
Moomaw, Joseph Burson
Neil, William Rice
Osterhout, Frank Edwud
Pugh, John W.
Rankine; Alex
Rankine, John
Reed, Daniel Lyle
Shaffer, Harry Michael
Shipe, James Walker
Simpson, Albert T1,1ylor
Simpson, David Calvin
Steele, Chas. Arthur
Steigh, John
Studley, Frank E .
Tice, Eldon Webb
Wasgatt, Frederick :Marcon
Wilson, Leon A.
Winnes, Harry Frank

Acker, Arthur Van
Barnes, Charley Leveritte
Bartos, Paul V.
Beadle, Max W., P. M.
Bishop, John
Bollinger, Albert Thomas
Bollinger, John Franklin
Caesar, Thomas
Chisholm, Joseph Robert
Clark, William Henry
Coffin, Christian August
Crosby, Albert Canning, P. M.
Crosby, Everett Wilner
Crossfield, Otto Johannis
Davies, Walter Young
Davis, E. W.
Deneen, Marion
Ewy, John Arthur
Gebhart, Erastus Manford
Greene, Frederick L.
Hagan, Steen
Hale, Clarence Alvin
Hansen, Frank W.
Harkleroad, Geo. A., P. M.
Harris, David Bedow
H awkins, George Augustus, P. M.
Hawkins, William Lard
Hill, Roland Varian

--55

ROSTER

ROSTER

506

Green, William Wisley

WITHDRAWN:
Hicks, ;John Collins
DIED:
Hathway, Roswell Beebe

AZUSA LODGE, No. 305.
Azusa, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Ramsaur, Robert Shuford
Ream, Charles Oscar, P. M.
Richardson, Charles Frederick
Richter, Ernest George
Roach, Irving David
Robertson, Benjamin Columbus
Robinson, George Leroy
Rury, William Isaac
Savage, Chester Alfred
Sheldon, William Adams, P. M.
Singleton, Wm. D.
Sitton, ;Jerry
Smith, Conrad Leslie, P. M.

Akard, ;John Hopkins
Anderson, ;Julius Hickok
Atkinson, Wm. Auburn
Barker, William Thomas
Beardslee, David Arthur
Beardslee, ;Joseph Newton
Bernard, Kenneth Lee
Berner, Orlando ;James
Bierbower, Hugh Reed
Briggs, Henry Dwight
Brumley, ;Joseph Eastman
Burt, Oscar Marshall
Callins, ;John Stevenson
Calvert, ;John William, P. M.
Carpenter, Frank A.
Casey, Charles Clark
Coffin, Mathew ;James
Coffman, Charles Henry
Cole, Winfield Scott
Crickmore, ;Joseph Clinton
Daly, ;John E.
Davis, William Allan
Dingman, Frank Lincoln
Dougherty, William Emmet
Ellis, Samuel Augusta, P. M.
Glover, George Edwin

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Goff, Leonto ;J.
Gordon, W alace
Rall, Hiram Thomas
Heimbaugh, ;James Wilson
Helsby, Edgar Ellis
Heth, Thomas F., P. M.
Heth, Walter Isaac
Heth, William W., P. M.
;Jerome, ;Jesse ;Julius
;Juden, George Washington
Kaufman, Frank Enos
Kt1tehum, Isaac Williams
King, Dana Charles
Lee, Charles Henry, P. M.
Macllonald, Etlwartl Andrew
Mace, Chas. Ernest
Mace, Edwin, P. M.
Martens, George, P. M.
Mattatall, Levi Peter
Meier, August Louis
Millis, Samuel B.
Mullholland, Chas. Bradley
Owen, Albert Galatin
Petree, Oran Adrian
Poage, Leland Stark
Ramsaur, Ben Walker

-78

WITHDRAWN:
Stuart, Samuel ;James

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

Smith, Delta Cornelius
Smith, Henry ;James
Soloman, Edward
Stark, Riney
Streshly, William Orlando
Thompson, Theodore Tilden
Turner, ;Joshua Sherwood
Wade, Willard ;J., P. M.
Ward, Herbert Ellsworth
Weeks, George Warren, P. M.
Wetherby, ;John Francis
Wilson, Hiram L.
Woodward, ;John Geoffrey

507

ASHLAR LODGE, No. 306.
Colton, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Lyle Wilson Rucker, Master,
Earl Jayson Strock, Chaplain,
144 West A St.
Robert Maurice McHargue, S. Dea.,
Charles Edward Mead, Sen. Ward., Charles Oliver Wood, Jun. Deacon,
William Edley Vaughn, lut1. Ward., Oscar Delafield Guire, Marshal,
Chester W. Curtis, Treasurer,
Benjamin Franklin Tanner, Steward,
George David Nichols, Secretary,
Ralph Leonard Maple, Steward,
Colton, Cal.
William Fred'k Wilbur, Tyler.

Atlkins, Thomas Stanton
Ahman, Natbias ;John
Allen, Robert Finley
Andrews, Frank Elmer
Andrews, ;John ;Jay
Andrews, Samuel Edward
Archibald, Geo. Melville ·
Bailey, Ralph David
Bailiff, ;John Ellison
Beach, Wesley Heman
Boalich, George

MEMBERS:
Bright, Frederick Riehard
Brink, Irwin William, P. M.
.Browning, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Brooks, Silas Fletcher
Bruce, Charles Albert
Bruce, David Frederick
Batton, Fred Arthur
Carr, Elijah Goodrich
Carr, Harry Millard
Caster, George Brlnton, P. M.
Champion, ;Josepn Austin

508

ROSTER

Clark, Alfred Monroe
Lantz, Fred'k Otto
Coe, George Lyman
Lash, Frank Gilbert
Colvin, Elton Samuel
Lee, James Wm.
Colyer, Fred Wilber
Lightfoot, Silas Swallow
Cosgrove, Eugene William, P. M. Macdougall, James, P. M.
fJra wford, Oscar Gerard
Madison, Forest Lamont
Culross, William Burdick
Maple, George Marley
Curtis, Chester W.
Maple, Ralph Leonard
Davidson, Robert Alex.
Martin, Robert Johnston
Deakins, Robert Lee
Marvin, Fred Wilson
Devlin, Andrew Jackson
McGregor, John
Domecq, Peter John
McHargue, Robert Maurice
Eddy, Harris Durham
McLean, William Bernard
Emery, Ormiston L.
McKinney, Ed. Cameron
Emery, Robert Hardie
McKinney, John Alex.
Fancher, WHliam Hoyt
Mead, Chas. Edward
Fisher, Geo. Amasa
M'lore, Wm. Miritte
Fox, Abram Stoner
Minnick, Albert
Frazer, Fred
Monnet, James Larrison
Gleason, Charles Elliot
fiauert, Charles
Gorall, Paul Chas.
N'ewcomer, Lyle Caleb
Gordon, William Clark
Nichols, Geo. David
Green, George Matthew, P. M.
Otto, William Robert
Guire, Oscar Delfield, P. M.
Owen, Frank Henri
Hamerly, John Wash.
Perrin, William Artemas
Hanna, John Bennett, P. M.
Peterson, Alfred Herman
Hanna, Wilson Creal
Pumphrey, William Byron
Hariff, Bert
Ratliff, Milton Sexton
.
Hart, Joe Thomas
Readman, William Harman
Hebberd, Walter Channing
Riley, Ray LeGrande
Henrlee, Thomas Frederick
Robinson, Devillo
Henderson, John St. Clair
Rogers, Edwin Garfield
Higgs, Albert James
Rucker, Lyle W.
Hoag. Chance Montel
Rutherford, John Dew
IIohnke, Louis Christopher
Sharpe, John Jack
Holmes, Bert Raymond
Shepley, Bertie Halsey Wm. L.
Johnson, William Curtis
Shotsett, Walter Eric
•Johnston, Charles Edward
• Smith, Howard B11rto11, P. M.
Johnston, Raymond
Smith, Thomas James
,Jones, Henry
Spring, Adolphus Duane
Jones, William J.
Starkey, Chas. Herbert
Kelly, Theo. B:nnswell
Stone, Byron Andrew
Knopsnyder, Irwin M.
Stone, William Eli
Lancaster, James Wash.
Strock, Earl Ja.y11on, P. M.
Lanier, Thomas C.
Swartz, Daniel Crist

ROSTER
Swepston, Mayo Bundy
Tanner, Benj. Franklin
Thornton, Arthur Gilbert
Vaughn, Wm. Edley
Walsh, Henry Arthur
Warner, Josephus Darby
Warner, Wm. Taylor
Griswold, Alfred Hatch

Clark, Ward Eastman

509

Wilber, William Frederick
Wilcox, Wilson Wallace
Wilkerson, Eugene Baker
Wondries, Charles Henry
Woods, Charles Oliver
Wright, Albert

-125
WITHDRAWN:
Strong, Donald W'atkins
DIED:
Hayes, Wilson

SANTA MONICA LODGE, No. 307.
Santa Monica, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Wirt P . Griffitts, Master,
William Edwin Oliver, Chaplain,
Santa Monica, Cal.
Herbert David Lore, Sen. Deac.,
Albert David Hawes, Smior Warden, Thomas Robinson, Jun. Deacon,
Louis Henry Doescher, Jun. Warden; Joseph Thomas Stevens, Marshal,
Elmer Joseph Hall, Treasurer,
Robert Waddell Sherman, Steward,
Oliver Grant Tullis, Secretary,
Clarence Elmer Smith, Steward,
1426 3rd St., Santa Monica.
Charles Henry Thomas, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Arkush, Solomon
Carpenter, Stephen Fisk
Aurand, Charles B.
Case, Lynn Hess
Balsley, Benjamin Lewis
Case, Samuel Hess
Balsley, Ben Randale
Coffman, Harry Lee
Balsley, John Allen, P. M.
Colton, Albert Newton
Balsley, Martin Edgar
Cota, Frank Walter
Barrow, William Newton, P. M.
Crain, Theodore E .
Bloye, Herbert Arthur
Dales, Charles Scott
Dales, Edward Verner, P. M.
Bontty, Edward Frank
Dexter, George Byrd, P. M.
Boughner, John D.
Doescher, Louis Henry
Boston, Andrew Jackson
Boxall, William Louis
Dow, Roscoe H.
Brown, Joseph Gabel
Dudley, Thomas Horace
Browne, John Davidson Il.
Dunham, James Elias, P. M.

510
Emerick, Joel J.
.b~ngelbrecht, Henry John
Failor, Benjamin Franklin
Field, Henry Demetrius
Finch, Fred Jesse
Folsom, Niles Rathbone, P. M.
Gardner, Jacob Roy
Garey, Stephen Thomas
Gick, Edward Roy
Gidley, Frank Perry
Gillie, Robert Carson
Goehring, Herman Franz
Griffitts, Wirt P.
Hall, Elmer Joseph
Hamilton, Newell Hiram
Harrington. Roy E.
Hasse, Carl Edward
Hawes, Albert David
Heath, Stacey Ross
Herlinger, Sefried
Hostetter, William Morgan
Howard, Ray Franklin
Hunt, Albert F.
Hunt, John Standish
Hunter, John Stewart
Hutton, George Howard
Jackson, Arthur Edmund
Jackson, James Henry
JRmison, Allen Muir
Jellison, Bryon Hugh
Jenkins, Robert Chesley
Johnson, David
Keller, Henry Workman, P. M.
Kennedy, James Wash.
Kennedy, John
LeBerge, Joseph Rosario
Lehman, August Herman
Lore, Herbert David
Maurer, John Henry
McHenry, William A.
McPherson, A. William
McComas, John Taylor
Miller, Hurbert M.
Miller, Robert Meek
Minger, Irwin Walter

ROSTER

ROSTER
Mooser, Leon Nutin
Mooser, Joseph Nathan
Newman, John Barry
Nichols, John William
Norton, Willis Allen
Oliver, Wm. Edwin, P. M.
Paul, Marvin Lafayette
Peak, Emmet Steauman
Peterson, Lauritz Angkjar
Phelps, Bernard Sherk
Phelps, Joseph Solomon
Polkinghorn, Wm. Arthur
Powell, Perry P.
Powers, Clark Homer
Proctor, John Burton
Pulham, John Alvin
Randall, Ellis E.
Reed, George Elbert
Robinson, Thomas
~gers, Claudius Walton, P. M.
Ruskamp, Chas. D.
Rutledge, Charles Ernest
Schader, Carl Francis
Sherman, Robert Waddell
Shipman, Charles George
Simons, Chas. August
Smith, John Gould
Smith, Nathan Franklin, P. M.
Starbuck, Edward Isaac, P. M.
Steele, John Corbett
Steen, Harold
Stein, Max
Stewart, Joseph Brown
Sues, Bernard
Sweet, Alonzo Frederick
Sweetzer, Edward Healy
Taft, Harris Welch
Tanner, Richard Robert
Taylor, James Wesley E.
Thomas, Charles Henry
Todd, J. Walter
Tullis, Oliver Grant, P. M.
Vogel, Frank William
Volkman, Martin Francis
Wagner, Frank Jesse

Webb, Henry Horace
Webb, Perry Horace
Wheeler, Ira Danford
Wheeler, Samuel A.
Wheeler, Samuel Earl
Emerson, Edward

Wiebers, William Frederick
Wilson, Earl Alonzo
Young, Eugene Louis
Zander, William Edward

lill

-128

DIED:
*Rockwell, Lorenzo Anson

•Restored during the year

MONROVIA LODGE, No. 308.
Monrovia, Los Angeles County.
Staten Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Howard Duane Buttolph, Master,
William Clark Gayor, Chaplain,
Duarte, Cal.
William Joyner Comes, Sen. Drac ..
Harris Stewart Reynolds, Sen. Ward., Eldridge Newhall Chickering, l. D.,
Frank Octavius Eager, Jun. Ward., John Stephen Allison, Marshal,
George Howard Anderson, Treas., Harry Guy Winslow, Steward,
George Laforce Baker, Secretary, Freeland Riston Hunter, Steward,
Monrovia, Cal.
William Leghrin Hanna, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bowerman, Clarence Clark
Allison, John Stephen
Buttolph, Frank Ralston McAllister
Anderson, Geo. Howard
Buttolph, Howard Duane
Anderson, Charles
Armstrong, Edward Spence, P. M. Chickering, Elbridge Newhall
Cooper; Victor Roscoe
Avery, Robert Clark
Cornes, Frank J., P. M.
Bacon, Williamson Ware
Cowan, Richard Bates, P. M.
Baker, Geo. LaForce
Barber, Sanford Maxon
Cornes, William Joyner
Bardill, J~hn Warren
Crandall, Horace E.
Crandell, John Abner
Barnes, Leonidas
Barnes, Samuel William
Cronenwett, Albert Emanuel
Bartle, John Henry
Dash, Charles .Tncob
Davies, Bertram Charles
Barth, Otto Frank
Baume, Frank Smith
Day, Loring Lerte
Denslow, Adelbert Todd
Beecher, Charles Edward
Doull, George Mark
Blair, Jame'!! Elmer
Dunn, John
Black, Geo. Wilson
Blake. Geo. Matthew
Eager, Frank Octavius

512

ROSTER

Evans, Herbert Johnston
1<1.rgens, Otto Max
Fosdyck, Thomas Henry
:!!'owler, Hardiman
Fowler, Joseph, P. M.
Fraulob, Joseph Albert
Fulton, Frederick Gans
Glenny, Thomas
Graver, John Lewis
Griffith, Ira Jackson
Handley, Damon Carl
Hanna, William Loghrin, P. M.
Hargrave, Edwin Lee
Harris, Hardin Chauncey
Harris, Jonathan Bentley
Hawes, Frederick Norman
Hinters; Adolph Christian
Holloway, James Bledsoe
Hotchkiss, Leonard Edward
Howell, Franklin Davenport
Hunt, Hugh Wilfred
Ingersoll, Charles Kelly
Ingram, Ebenezer, P. M.
Ingram, Samuel S.
,Johnson, Albert Hurlbut
Jones, Lester M.
Kettle, Alfred Wm.
Knapp, Edward Walter
Knepper, Edmund E., P. M.
Kramer, Gottlob William
Lapham, Percy L.
Lemberger, Arleigh Francesse
Long, Ernest Benjamin
Marsh, Clark Herbert
Mccament, Andrew Lee
McOullongh, Howard Tremble
Mccurley, Orel J.
Miller, Morton
Mollenkoff, Worthy
Morse, Chas. Ilora•·P
Neely, Robert Hugh
Newman, Miles Robert

. ROSTER

Nichols, Walter Hammond
Northup, Eugene Daniel
Pinney, Albert
Pomeroy, John Larabee
Prindle, Edward Manville
Rader, Howard Elton
Rawson, Engene Pulaski
Reed, John Wallace
Reese, Arthur William, P. :M.
Renaker, Charles Taylor
Remington, Lewis D.
Reynolds, Stewart Harris
Riddell; Alex. Hardy
Robison, Joseph Burt
Ryder, Andrew
Salisbury, Samuel Emerson
Sarwine, Christian Henry
Sawyer, Reuben Anderson
.Scarborough, Robert R.
,Scott, Archibald
Slemmons, Hal Maxwell
Slick, Fred Abraham
Spence, Edward Follis, P. M.
Spence, William Parker, P. M.
Strine, ;fohn Hitrvey, P. M.
Thomas, Herbert John
Tuggl1l, William Erwin
Vanderlas, Richard Augustus
'Varel, Francis Neville
Wardall, Ralph Hugh
Wardall, Ray Clifford
Wardall, Thomas
Wheeler, Lawrence Newton, P. M.
Whitam, John
White, Genius
White, Wm. Anson
Williams, Juliuu Joel
Williams, Manly Russell
Wilson, Foster E.
Win8low, Harry Guy
Woolley, Pardon Sebastian

-119

Casner, Charles Wesley
Fancher, Marshall Jay
Farman, Willis Edward

513

WITHDRAWN:
Harvey, James William
Johnson, Ansel E.
Pottol, Robert

SUSPENDEµ FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dickie, Edward Hale
Monroe, Campbell Otto·
MacFarland, Walter
Udell, Herbert George
DIED:
Scott, Harold Rylatt
Wl\ittaker, William Wallace
J,

Bean, Charles William

DELANO LODGE, No. 309.
Delano, 'x:em County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Roonell Marvin Wilbur, Master,
Ei:n~st Hastings Ramsay, S. Deac.,
Delano, Cal.
Frank Rollin Crooks, Jun. Deacon,
Otto August Clasen, Se11 ..Warden, Archibald Sheppard, Marshal,
Gayard Charles Carlisle, Jun. Ward., Edgar Ellsworth Sherwood, Steward,
Benjamin Thomas, Treasurer,
Benjamin Franklin Compton, Stew.,
John Jacob Schlitz, Secretary,
Auguste Perrier, Tyler.
Delano, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Crangle, John
Alderson, G. Edwin
Crooks, Frank Rcllin
Allen, Marcus D.
Dorsey, Richard Valentine
Ammons, Ralph Waldo
Downing, Edward Charles
Armstrong, Evelyn B.
Duggins, James Madison
Bonnabel, Jean
Eustache, Jean Etienne
Bower, Homer Andrew, P. M.
Faure, Peter
Bulock, Arthur Brown
Fowler, Harry Harwood
Burton, Ebenezer Scott
Green, John Townsend
Cecil, Dan Leander
Hawley, Harvey
Carlisle, Gilyard Charles
Hays, Emmett Lowell
Clasen, Otto August
Howard, Frank Byron
Cline, Christian William, P. M.
Jackson, Franklin Pierce.
Compton, Benj~i11 F;ran~lin
Jordan, Alfred Bernard
Cornwell, Daniel Denni'S; P. M.
Cornwell, Hiram Luther ' '
Kern, Ralph
33

ROSTER

514

Kitchen, Charles Edwin
Kramer, Alex. Sames, P. M.
Lary, Clyde Clifton
Lathrop, John Ely
Le Clair, Eugene Moses
Lockridge, Albert Newton
Macomber, John Kingsly
McCombs, Albert James
Neville, Jesse Montgomery
Perrier, Auguste
Porter, James Allison
Quinn, John Robertson
Ramsay, Ernest Hastings
Robertson, Orie Oliver
Robertson, Thomas Abner
Schlitz, John Jacob, P. M.
Schultz, Norman Place

ROSTER

Sheppard, Archibald, P. M.
Sherwood, Edgar Elsworth
Smith, William Lannon
Speer, John Henry B.
Stockton, James Walter
Thomas, Anthony Harrington
Thomas, Benjamin, P. hi.
· Thomas, Clay Benjamin
Turner, Lyman
Van Valer, Clarence Alpha
Waits, Fred
Whitten, Alfred
Wilbur, Roswell Marvin, P . M.
Wiseman, Addison Louis
Withrow, John Russell
Wright, Frank Emmett
Zimmerman, Henry D., P. M. -6!

WITHDRAWN:
Curtis, Nahem Linas
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Buchanan, Frank August
Faure, Joseph
Zitr.merman, Henry Nathaniel

SISSON LODGE, No.

310.

Sisson, Siskiyou County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Henry Mcllmoil, Master, Charles Frederick Galbreath, S. D£'a.,
Sisson, Cal.
James Nathaniel Durney, _/ . Deaco11,
Walter Claude Alling ham, S. Ward., .....................,.............., Marshal,
Edward Kotok, Junior Warde11,
Michael Culligan, Steward,
John Martin Schuler, Treasurer,
Charles Wright, Steward,
Edward H . Kaupp, Secretary,
John William Sullaway, Tyler.
Sisson, Cal.
Adams, John Crittenden
Alexander, Samuel
Allingham, Walter C.

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Hugh Blythe
Antone, Lee Leon
Hall, Frank

,

Barnes, Willard Francis
Metcalf, Samuel W.
Bartlett, Wallace Coggins
Mugler, Albert
Bassler, Romer Irwin
Mugler, Nicholas
Bonney, Charles Lester
Murphy, Charles William
Burk, George Washington
Murphy, Morton Jeremiah
Burton, Roy Oscar
Neidigh, David M.
Camaron, Niel Stewart
Niece, Merle Lawrence
Cass, Frederick Layton
Orr, Francis Price
Craig, Henry Alonzo
Painter, Joseph Lincoln
Culligan, Michael
Porter, Chester Orland
Durney, James Nathaniel
Rinckel, David Wesley
Edson, Archie Galen
Rinckel, John Wesley
Fidler, Alfred Augustine
Ritter, Gustav Anthony
Galbreath, Charles Frederick, P. M. Ross, Henry l!'.
Gates, Roy
Saul, Theodore Julius
Glidden, Arthur Edward
Sawyer, Joseph Clark
Glidden, Charles Edward, P. M.
Schuler, John Martin
Gouguet, Louis Jean Ernest
Shebley, Frank Albert
Gridley, Wm. Augustus
Sheldon, Darwin Alonzo
Hopkins, William Richard
Amiley, Albert Parah
Hoey, Henry Patrick
Smith, Charles Caswell
Holmes, John William
Sollner, John B., P. M.
Hubble, Chas. W.
Stevens, James, P. M.
Hunt, William Broderick
Sullaway, John William
Jensen, William
Swango, Claude Buckner
Johnson, John Charles
Swango, Noah Bruce
Kaupp, Edward Hepperlen, P. M.
Towne, George E.
Kirkpatrick, Wm. Augustus
Tetzlaff, Arthur John
Knight, Alton James
Thompson, Fenton Graham ·
Kohn, Matt
Weed, Abner
Leach, Martin Andrew
Wheeler, Thomas Rattery
Libero th, Niles West
Wood, Oscar Hiram, P. M.
Locey, Charles Arthur
Wright, Charles
McGuinness, Henry
Wright, Edgar James
Mcllmoil, Wm. H.

-75
J<~still, .Jesse McMahon
Hunt, Eugene William

WITHDRAWN:
Harvey, James Maurice
Kuck, Ferdinand Henry
Wright, Thomas Benton

ROSTER

ROSTER

516

TEHACHAPI LODGE. No. 313.

LOS BANOS LODGE, No. 312.

Tehachapi, Kem County.
Stated Meetings, last Thursday in each month.

Los Banos, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Bert Alvin Wilson, Master,
John Frederick Muth, Chaplain,
Los Banos, Cal.
William Jasper Stockton, Jr., S. D.,
Frank Holman Thomas, Sen. Ward., John Henry Schmidt, Ju11. Deacon, .
John Prosper Idiart, Jun. Warden, William Jasper Stockton, Sr., Mar.,
Archibald C. Smith, Treasurer,
Louis F. Bambauer, Steward,
Edward David Heron, Secretary,
John Kuill Kinsman, Steward,
Los Banos, Cal.
James Patrick Hagerty, Tyler.

Akard, Joseph Green
Arbios, Henry Bernard
Arbios, Jean Peter
Bachle, Fred
Bambauer, Louis F.
Berryman, John Allen
Bibby, Nicholas, Sr.
Bryant, Virgil Clay
Cheatham, William Thomas
Clare, Frank
Davis, Walter Mortimer
Drummond, John Quincy
Grunig, Emil
Hagerty, James Patrick
Harris, Alfred
Harrison, Percy, P. M.
Hawks, Clarence W.
Heron, Edward David
Idiart. John Prosper
Jameson, Chas. Mortimer
Kinsman, John Kuill
Kruger, Edward Martin
Lacy, Joseph
Leonard, Dennis Allen
Lower, Harry Edward
Maddox, John Edword

MEMBERS:
Magginnis, Frank Duncan
Mason, Lewis Tracy
McClelland, James Long
Mead, George Walter, P. M.
Mitchell, James
Muth, John Frederick, P. M.
• Peterson, Fred Johannes J.
Pfeiffer, Henry James
Place, Josepn Elmer, P. M.
Roberts, William Mason
Ryley, Samuel Paul
Salau, Adolphus Henry, P. M.
Schmidt, John Henry
Schumacher, William "Edward
Smith, Archibald C.
Stockton, William Jasper, P. M.
Stockton, Wm. Jasper, Jr.
Thomas, F. H.
Tully, Ernest Ray
Wade, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Wiley, William Merritt, P. M.
Wilson, Bert Alvin
Wood, Chester W.
Wright, Walter Fox
Wright, William Walter
-51

Jon as Galinger, .'-!aster,
Tehachapi, Cal.
Newell ]. Brown, Jr., Sen. Worden,
Harry J. Beauford, Jun. Warden,
Lon M. Denison, Treasurer,
Leonard T. Jenkins, Secretory,
Tehachapi, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Asher, Arthur
Emery, William Oscar
Aye, Geo. Julian
Fagberg, Charles John
Andrus, Glenn Mason
Files, Walter Oglesby
Baird, James
Fleming, George Edward
Beauford, Harry John
Freeman, John Ban
Blume, Issarel
Freeman, Robert Buchanan
Boden, Louis Frederick
Galinger, J ona9
Boxall, Fred 'k Geo.
Gillespie, Earl Richmond
Brewster, Charles Lindsey
Gillespie, Gordon Grant
Brown, Newell Jonathan, Jr.
Glenn, James
Burges, George
Goldberg, Aaron
Cavano, William Michael
Grether, Earnest Fred 'k, Jr.
Centerno, Jules Bruneau
Grubb, James Coulter
Chalman, Gustaf
Hall, Edwin Hines
Champion, Thomas Evelette
Hamilton, Hiram Culbreth
Charlton, Oliver Adair
Harloe, George Edwin
Chormicle, Franklin Crawford, P.M. Harris, Bernard
Christopherson, Martin Osr.ar
Harris, James Erwin
Hastings, George
Clark, Samuel Remington
Heath, Charles
Coffey, George Alva
Cooper, Frank Geo.
Hickey, John
Crum, Ed. Frederick
Hicks, Anzie Olea
Cuddeback, William Nicholas
Hicks, Jesse Elmer, P. M.
Cunningham, Lincoln
Hill, Rolland George
Dartt, James David
Hendrickson, John James
Denison, Burton Martin
Hogan, Ray Elmer
Denison, Lon M.
. Holden, Wilfred
Dennman, George Alfred
Hoxie, Frederick Stickney
Dickerson, Evard
Jenkins, Lenard Truman, P. M.

518

ROSTER

Kelly, John William
Seymour, Edward Humphrey
Kessing, Louis Bernard
Shackelford, Dick, P. M.
Krystall, Samuel
Shackelford, Jesse Bell
Laskey, Walter George
Shackelford, Marcus Sterling
Lee, Curtis 0.
Shackelford, Rouzee Foster
Lorentzen, Paul Hedgepeth
Sheridan, John Henry, P. M.
Lovejoy, Geo. Walter
Shobert, Fred
Lovejoy, Walter
Smith, Charles Henry
Macdonald, Reginald Edwin
Sparks, Carl Prince
Maclin, Grover Cleveland
Speakman, William Walter
Mallachowitz, Clyde Earl
Spencer, Patrick William Henry
Manning, Arch Pay
Stanford, Charles Greenleaf
Marx, Arthur
Stoughton, Chas. Henry
Marx, Harry A.
Steadman, LeRoy Leahy
Strouse, Edward Eugene
Marx, Philip, P. M.
Sutton, William Henry
Mathio,s, Paul G. H.
Switzer, Henry Wm.
McFarlane, Peter James, P. M.
Sylva, Martin Lawrence
McKay, Alexander Duncan
McMurtrie, Eugene Curtis
'faylor, Charles Sumner
Meagher, James Buchanan
Thayer, Joseph Herriot
Thorne, Walter Francis
Monroe, Duncan Frank
Turner, George Wyman
Monroe, .Tames A.
Tyler, Matthew Hale
Moore, Julius Durkee
Tyler, Seth Jackson
Newell, Daniel Boone
Van Voorhees, Geo. Theron, P. M.
O'Hagen, John Walter
Osburn, Henry Emmet
Van Way, Walter
Waage, John
Pippitt, George Henry, P. M.
Pullman, Adolph Arthur
Waterman, Alfred Soloman
Purcell, William Franklin
Waterman, Walter Benjamin
Rees, Isaac David
Weldon, Arthur
Richter, William Mortiz
Weston, Paul Eugene
Whistler, William Henry, P. M.
Riley, Roger Andy
Ripley, John
White, Geo. Washington
Willard, Samuel Fred
Reed, Everet Vest
Wilson, William Cabaniss
Reuss, Chas. Nicolas
Wolfshon, Fred
Robison, John Sherman
Rogers, William Graves
Young, Austin
Young, George Washington
Sedwell, George William
-135
Sexton, Chester Stephen
WITHDRAWN:
Coleman, Earl Victor
Nicjolson, Edward James Holbrook
W est, Frank Squires
,Jacobs, H erma n Manne!

DIED:
Wilson, Sidney Benjamin

ROSTER

519

TEMESCAL LODGE, No. 31+
Corona, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each

month.

OFFICERS:
William D. Somerville, Chaplain,
?\larshal Emery Clayson, Master,
1002 Belle Ave., Corona, Cal.
Frank Herkelrath, S et1ior D.f,.acon,
Harry Lynn Lyman, S en. Warden, Fred Elwyn Snidecor, Junior Deacon,
Luther Patton, Junior Warden,
Charles Mittean Scoville, Marshal,
George Brown, Treasurer,
Edward J oseph Genereux, S teward,
Arthur Hamilton Larrabee, S ec'y,
Wayne Carleton Rotsell, Steward,
Box 8, Corona, Cal.
August Herman Schoneman, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alden, Fred Shelton
Freeman, George Robert
Andrews, Linus Lackner
Generoux, Edward Joseph
Austin, George Morgan
Gleason, Clifford Velorous
Baer, George Nickey
Glenn, David Wilson
Baird, Fred Milton
Gooch, John Barton
Barth, William Christian, P. M.
Grinnell, James William
Bates, Albert William
Hammer, John Thomas
Billings, Rufus Sumner
Harding, Cyrus Merritt
Bird, Stephen
Harter, Elam
Bissell, Hugh Rolland
Herkelrath, Frank
Bonfoey, Edward
Holmes, Henry Harrison
Brown, Alex. B.
Kelley, Albert Polk
Brown, George, P. M.
Key, John Patterson
Blair, Geo. Myron ·
Kidder, Ethan Pier
Bush, George Lynne
Larkins, John Martin
Byler, Silas Russell
Larrabee, Arthur Hamilton, P. M.
Cathey, Harry Willis
Lockett, St erling Wiley
Chaney, Joseph Wesley, P. M.
Lord, Daniel
Clayson, Marshal Emery
Lyman, Harry Lynn
Cochran, Willard Wesley
Lyman, Wellman David
Cooper, Fleming Perry
Main, Charles William
Cross, Alvin Harvey
-M asters, Frank
Darst, Wilbur Grafton
Mayer, Michael Joseph
Davis, Allen Jones
McCorkle, Gentry Purviance
Davis, James Lemuel, P. M.
McGillivary, George Brown
Dean, Gustavus Franklin, P. M.
McNiel, David Carey
Drinkwater, Thomas Paine
McVicar, William Gray
Fairly, Guy Ernest
Morgan, Everett Bryant
Ferguson, George L.
Mueller, Fred Jacob

520

ROSTER

Patton, Luther
Perkins, Frank Arthur, P. M.
Randall, Cecil Bryon, P. M.
Reeves, Norman Orlando
Riddell, William
Rotsell, Wayne Carlton
Ruddeck, Otto Julius
Schoenman, August Herman
Scoville, Charles Median, P. M.
Scoville, Frank, P. M.
Slaten, Alfred Theodore
Snidecor, Fred Elwyn
Snidecor, George Elihu

Bloom, Samuel Lincoln

Somerville, William D., P. M.
Spining, Joseph Montfort
Sullivan; Thomas David
Tilson, Nathaniel Walter
Terpening, Mason, P. M.
Tuthill, Arthur Brewster
Valentine, William Edmond
Vankirk, George Wesley
Walker, John
Willard, Stephen Sylvester
Willets, Robert Leander
Wurth, Carl Albert
-83

WITHDRAWN:
Claypool, Myron Newton
Watson, James

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chapman, William Henry
Veach, Andrew
Huxsaw, Orville A.
Walton, Arthur Lavington'
'l'riolo, John Patrick
Wilkin, Frederick Lacy
Wood, Albert Clark

Lypps, Charles Christopher

DIED:
Prizer, Henry Anson

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Baker, John Samuel
Jones, John S.
Bradbeer, Andrew B,
Ludy, Dan Wade
Buehn, George Christ P. M.
Lumbard, Albert L'or
Buehn, Louis Fred .
. McCarric, Franklin
Burrows, Herbert Gates
Mason, Charles Cole
Custer, Harrison K.
Neubauer, Simon, P. M.
DeWitt, Almond Dor
Orr, Charles Augustus
Dillman, Thomas Milton
Orr, James Robert
Dressen, Alphons Edward, P. M.
Orr, John Joseph, P. M.
Duncan, Charles Wilson, P. M.
Paddison, Edward George
Duncan, Garnett
Price,' Thomas James
Eliot, James 8mith, P. M.
Reeve, John Bell
Emery, Charle11
Shaw, Robert James
Fraser, Alexiinder Isaac
Bollinger, John Henry
Glazier, Clarence M.
Sproul, Frank Preston, P. M.
Gordon, John
Sproul, William Charlee
Groover, John Franklin
Strong, Stephen
Hay, James, P. M.
Swigart, Jacob
•
Higbee, Chas. E.
Swigart, Jacob DeWitt
Holsapple, Albert Ferdinand
Thornton, Calvin A.
Horst, Dan Welty
Thornton, Virgil Orville
Hughes, Harley
Waterman • .:Jlarence 0.
Hughes, Nicholas Henry
:Waymire, Frank D.
Hutchinson, Arlie Frank
Waymire, Stephen Augustus
Irwin, Claude C.
We11t, Edward Garrison
Johnston, Darius David
White, William Erastus C.
SUSPENDED
Pallange, Percy Peter

FOR

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Ray, -Thomas Allen

NORWALK LODGE, No. 315.
Norwalk, Los Angeles County.
Stated meetings, Tuesday of or next precedtng Full Moon.

SANGER LODGE, No. 316.

OFFICERS:

Sanger, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Almond Dor DeWitt, Master,
Louis Fred Buehn, Senior Deacon,
Norwalk, Cal.
Edward George Paddison, J. Deacon,
Dan Welty Horst, Senior Warden, Nicholas Henry Hughes, Marshal,
John Bell Beeve, Junior Warden, John Henry Sollinger, Steward,
James Hay, Treasurer,
Dan Wade Ludy, Steward,
Alphons Edward Dressell, Secretary, Thomas .Milton Dillman, Tyler.
La Mirada, Cal.

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Allen, Carl C.
Allen, Don Alonzo
Anderson, John Adolf

Andrus, William Frank
Bacon, Milo Woodworth
Bacon, Oscar Franklin

521

-52

"'

ROSTER

522
Bacon, William Milton
Baird, Alfred Maurice
Baird, Benjamin Morgan
Baird, Edwin Ellsworth, P. M.
Ballard, Berton Joseph
Bennett, Frederick Geor.g e
Bosserman, Robert Lee
Brown, Percy Whitcomb
Burnett, James Edward, P. M.
Burnett, Robert B.
Burns, Miles Francis
Bradshaw, John
Brehler, Oscar A.
Carlton, William David
Carter, Flavius Josephus
Clay, William Robert
Coblentz, George Samuel
Curran, Choate Howe
Decker, Thurlow W.
Dennis, Ne1'on, P. M.
Depew, William Brenning
Dewey, Edward Porter
Dirvin, Henry
Dockery, George Thomas
Douglass, Theo. Crockett
Dudley, Edward C.
Ellwood, Leonard Francis
Elmore, Benjamin Thomas
Evinger, Daniel R.
Faller, Peter, P. M.
Field, AnderR Thorwaldsen
Fleming, Luther Parker
Garrison, Frederick Merril
Hamilton, Andrew
Harlem, Louis
Hayward, Orie, P. M.
Heidorn, Wm. John
Hobler, Sigmund Frankenau

Hoopor, James Edward
li11ds1;n, Ora James
Ingram, Charles Ray
Jones, Iven Henry
Jones, William Frederick
Kutner, Alfred ·
Lange, Carl Adam
Lisle, John Newton, P. M.
Madden, Thomas Frederick
Manley, George Penfield, P. M.
Maxson, Charles Newton
McLaughlin, Harry Blaine
McLaughlin, Lee, P. M.
McGee, James Henry
Meves, Chas. Henry
Mitchell, Harry Chandler
Nelson, James Peter
Norman, Lewis Vernon
Paden, Robert J.
Parker, Albert Monroe
Patterson, Wm. Rigger
Pressley, John Brockinton, P. M.
Radley, William
Rosenberger, John Ashley
Sayre, Frank King, P . M.
Swank, William Ellwood
Tackaberry, Benjamin Franklin
Tipton, Alfred Ludley
Turner, Labon John
Walton, Charles Perry
Walton, William Albert
Weldon, Abraham James
West, Philander Nathan
Weston, Charles
Wheeler, Barton James
Wilson, Henry Scott
Zinn, Joseph Porter
-81

ROSTER

523

FALLBROOK LODGE, No. 317.
Fallbroot, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Lee Colby Ellis. Master,
A. J. Clark, Chaplain,
Fallbrook, Cal.
Frank Richard Dav, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Charles Reader, S . Ward., Jacob Arthur Martin, J11n. Deac.,
0":1i~us Adelbert Anderson, J. Ward., ..........................................._., Marshal,
Wilham M. Smelser, Treasurer,
Burt Woodbury, Steward,
Albert W. E. Fox, Secretary,
Horatio Smelser. Steward,
Fallbrook, Cal.
Ellis Berdine Walton, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Ominus Adelbert
Bell, Alonzo Mandeville
Belt, Henry Morrow
Camp, Chas.
Clark, Almond James, P. M.
Colstock, H. L.
Cook, James Madison
Day, Frank Richard, P. M.
Ellis, Lee Colby
Fickas, Je88e Tingle
Fox, Albert Wm. Edward
Goodenow, Franeis G.
Graffin, Samuel H.
Gregg, Fred B.
Gregg, Justice C.
.Tnbnson, Percy Alex., P. M.
Martin, Jacob Arthur

Martin, Joseph George
Moulton, Montj?omery McD., P. M.
Pilgrim, CJias. M.
Myers, Edward
Reader, Edward Charles
Regan, Wm. H.
Salmons, Frank E .
Smelser, Horatio
Smelser, William M.
Waite, Marion Edward
Walton, Ellis Berdine
'VliaJtnn. ErneRt Allen
WeRtfall, Georj!'P Franklin
White, Erls;?ar Cornclins
Williams, James
Wnodbury, Bert
-33

"
I

EMMANUEL LODGE, No. 318.

WITHDRAWN:
Daveney, Charles Edward Vernon

Biggs, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

DIED:
Patterson, John Alexander

OFFICERS:

(Ko Certificate. See Appendix.)

..

524

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
La Point, Moses, P. M.
Albers, John
Lawrence, Pnilip Edward
Albers, Paul
.<\.rchambault, Frank Edward, P. M. Leeper, John Franklin ·
McKee, Matthew
Bayles, Robert A.
Morse, 1'Jclmond
Bell, John Alex.
Neff, Millard Fillmore
Berveillier, Jean Nicholas O.
Nelson, Chas. Henry
Brink, Henry Seine
Nelson, Joel Moore
Burchett, William
Nelson, William Oscar, P. M.
Caldwell, Buchanan
011senbriggen, Matthias
Camp, Albert Edward
Riddle, Wm. Robert
Chatfield, Charles Edward
Rutland, James Bell
Cohn, Harry, P. M.
Shippee, Wanton Allen
Cooper, Theo. Reynolds
Smith, Gilman Kendall
Demes, Barney Harry
Smith, Walter Marcus
Doty-Lyman, Warren
Stoudt, Aaron F.
Doty, William Mark
Stoudt, Grover Cleveland
Fox, Henry
Hammon, Wendell Philucius, P. M. Spencer, Franklin Edward
Walker, William Edwin, P. M.
Hansen, Charles
WaRhburn, Oliver Arnold
Hawkins, Orwin Cullen, P. M.
Haselbusch, Henry William, P. M. Washburn, Calvin Uriah
Watson, Franklin Haskell, P. M.
Hicks, John Leander
White, Walter Herbert
Huffaker, Ebenezer
White, Emmons
Jackson, Charles Herbert
White, Edwin Earl
Jones, James Richard
Whitney, !val
Kemper, Francis Charles
Woodruff, Andrew Moore
Kennedy, Harry Garfield
-55
La Point, Leroy Anson

HOLLENBECK LODGE, No. 319.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month .
1956 East First Street.
OFFICERS:
Huron Young Gibson, Master,
Jacob Blick Ginther, Chaplai~i,
3841 Adair St., Los Angeles.
John Swanfeldt, Senior Deacon,
Henry Wilson Reynolds, Sen. Ward., Clifford Edward Schroer, J. Deac.,
Charles Frederick Clark, J. Ward., Harry Harrison Taylor, Marshal,
Peter Johnson, Treasurer,
Frank Elliott Burger, Steward,
John William Dick, Secretary,
Ellis Marion Harris, Steward,
1196 W. 36th St., Los Angeles.
,George Reed Ellis, Tyler.

WITHDRAWN:
Craig, Thomas Franklin
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Boyd, James Sankie

525

..

MEMBERS:
Absalom, David Reese
Barton, Charles Oliver
Adams, Harland George
Barton, Hugh
Adams, Horace Bishop, P. M.
Batcheller, Charles Lucian, P. M.
Beall, Albert Samuel
Adams, Oliver Perry
Becher, Max Albert
Ahlgren, Earnest Ludwig
Beede, John Wallace
Alexander, Daniel Potter
Alkire, Charles Osborn
Behrendt, Leon
Behrendt, Sam
Allin, Ernest
Behymer, Luden Ellsworth
Alli11on, Samuel Browles
Bell, Robson Orde
Ammon, Ralph Bell
Bemis, Ernest Hudson
Anderson, Charles Edward
Benjamin, Robert
Anderson, John
Bennett, George
Anderson, :Marshall S.
Berres, Bert
Angstad, Chas. Edmund
Best, Abel Wardlaw
Arey, Ralph Jesse
Bethune, Jam·~s Neils
Atwell, John Haye
Binford, Henry Mettaur
Augustus, Edward Hikes, P. M.
Blaemire, Mark Packard
Bacon, George
Blaemire, Samuel Fairburn
Bailie, Hubert Charles
Blanchard, E verett Loring
Bancroft, George Hess
Bliesner, William John
Bannister, George Lucas
Bollsehweiler, Charles Frederick
Barber, David Cassett
Bolton, Edgar. Monroe
Baruslee, Arthur
Boron, Harry H.
Barker, Edward Lawton
Borun, Hyman Jacob
Barnhart, Wm.
Borun, Robert
Barnes, Charles Adams
Bostwick, Edward Everett
Barnes, Thomas Finley
Botsford, Frank Leroy
Barth, Theodore Adam

526

ROSTER

ROSTER

Boyer, Richard Peter
Bradbeer, Geo. Elliott
Bradley, Frank Ezekiel
Bradley, Frank L.
Bresee, Melvin Arthur
Bresee, Phineas Wright
Brindley, Archibald Cleveland
Brotzman, Franklin Wilson
Brooks, Frank Handy, P. M.
Brooks, Isaac Eugene
Brown, Harry Van Brick
Brown, Carey Wm.
Brown, James
Brown, Jesse Franklin
Brown, Robert Lowrey
Browning, Daniel Rawlins, P. M.
Bucher, James Samuel
Bulpin, Thomas W.
Burger, Frank Elliott
Burger, Walter Brown
Buckley, John
Burrier, Clifford Ristine
Bunker, Walter James
Burgess, Frank Charles
Busch, Freq 'k Wilhelm
Busch, Samuel
Bush, Harris Haven
Butt, Jam<is Franklin
Butterworth, E<lward Summers
Cady, Freeman Risley
Campbell, George W.
Cammert, Edward Rudolph
Carmichael, Thomas Adams
Carr, Jesse Aubrey
Carr, Noble Spencer
Carroll, Joseph Francis
Cartee, Geo. Ira
Carter, John Asher
Cary, Geo. Wash.
Casey, Charles Booth
Chandler, Burdette
Chapman, Ward
Charlton, Herbert Everett
Charlton, Chas. Augustus, P. M.
Charlton, Roy Currier

Chrisman, Charles Franklin
Chrisman, Jesse Floyd
Christy, Adieon Barton
Ulampett, Don L.
Clampett, Edward Anth:rny
Clark, Charles Frederick
Clawson, Cornelius Delta
Clemons, Frank S.
Cleveland, Leroy Marion L
Cochrane, Malcomb
Cohn, Abraham B.
Cohn. James B.
Cohn, Maurice
Coker, Frank Mathews
Collins, Arthur Jack
Colwell, Charles Henty
Conart, George Waehingtnr
Cone, William Smith
Conley, Thomas Augustus
SJook, Geo. Percy
Cooke, Charles Prentico
Copley, Chester Carl
Cowan, John
Cox, William Leonard
Coyne, Robert John
Craig, John Redue
CJrane, Henry Root
Crail, James
Crawford, Harry R11lph
Crose, Fred 'k Milton
Daniels, Albert Leroy
Davis, Leland Homer
Davis, Morgan Lewis
Davisson, Charles Elmore
Decius, John Harmon
De Haven, Jay Dale
Derby, Charles F<:rdinand
Derby, George Morris
Dessery, Alfred Bonney
Dessery, Hypolite Louie
Dessery, Victor
Dibble, Horace B.
Dick, Clyde Orris
Dick, John William
Dickson, James Lemuel

..

Dift'enbaugh, Charles
Diggs, Lowell Clyde
Dillingham, Frank Stinson
Dingle, Ervin
Doak, Hugh Taylor
Doane, Douglas Freret
Dodd, Samuel Harvey
Dodge, William
Dodson, John Henry
Dorr, George· William
Douglas, Hallis Ross
Douglass, Irving Cruft
Dreyfus, Louis Ernest
Du Casee, Eugene Leon
Dunn, John Edward
Dunsmour, John Marcus, P. M.
Dunsmour, Robert Morrie
Eccleston, Albert Sydney
Eddy, Nelson Butler
Edwards, Herbert Llewellyn
Egan, Andrew Campbell
Egan, George
Egar, Charles Lucius
Eift'er, Louis Edward
Eley, Archibald James
Ellis, George Reed
Elliott, Milo D.
Etzel, Edward Henry
Evans, Charles W.
Fallie, Garland Prentire
Farley, Frank
Farren, Chas. Wm.
Faulkner, Charles
Faux, John Walter
Fechyew, Benjamin Reader
Fehreneon, Louis Henry
Fellows, Frederick Wm.
Fereday, Ernest M.
Ferris, Horace Bayles
Filz, Frank Jacob
Finlay, John
Fitzgerald, Archibold Thomas
Fitzgerald, Wallace Andrew
Flanders, Geo. A.
Flawer, Sinclair

Fleming, John Leslie
Fleming, Orestes Phile
Follmer, Raymond Irving
Force, Floyd Centenial
Ford, George Jackson Parker
Forgey, Ralph Harold
Forsyth, Robert Allan
Forrester, Arthur Waltt>r
Fowles, Wm. Cleveland
Francie, Wm. Joseph
French, Charles E<lwarJ
Friend, Thomas
Friedenberg, David
Frost, Harry Willis
Galbreath, Roes Morgan
Garrett, Louie Russer
Ga.rritt, Edward Hewett
Garvin, Charles Louie
Gernert, Peter Christian
Gibbs, William Francie
Gibson, Frank
Gibson, Hudson Young
Gibson, William S.
Gill, Robson Osborn
Gilmer, Charles M.
Gilmer, Robert De Witt
Gilmore, Arthur Freeman
Ginther, Jacob Blick
Girton, Thomae Colline
Givernaud, Charles Louis
Glass, John Alex.
Goldthwaite, John Shawhan
Goshorn, Archie Trebnrtis
Graham, William H.
Gray, Herbert
Gray, John Walter
Greene, George Sterling
Gregory, Brinton Blake, P. M.
Gregory, Edmund Robert
Grohs, Henry Joseph
Grohs, John Philipp
Groshell, Wm. Reynolds
Grubb, Stephen Leander
Guest, Henry Francie
Hagadorn, William Morley

!i27

528
Haines, Frank Knickerbocker
Hall, Orin A1:1stin
HamIJlond, Rollin C.
Hampton, Thomas Welch
Harrington, Fred Augustus
Harrington, Geo. Wash.
Harris, Ellis Marion
Harrison, John
Harrison, Wm. Benjamin
Hart, "Winslow Caruthers
Hauser, Franklin Michael
Hauser, Julius
Hauser, Lewis August, P. M.
Hauser, Wesley Charles
Hay, Emil Otto
Hays, Charles Ernest
Heartt, Burton Elmer
Heasley, Hugh Adair
Rending, Felix Roland
Hendrick, James Wesley, P. M.
Henkle, Byron
Henneberry, Edwin Joseph
Herrell, John North
Hess, Oliver Richard
Hesselberger, Milton
Hicks, Ira Newton
Hillebrand, Frank Joseph
Hoffman, Frederick Otto
Holcomb, John Everett
Holgate, Charles Ernest
Holland, Francis Engene
Hollenbeck, Edward Henry
Holmes, Charles Richmond
Holmes, Ray Meyers
Holt, James Erle
Hood, Frederick Donald
Hornbeck, Eugene
Hopkins, Harry Lincoln
Hopkins, Olla Lamont
Hopper, Wm. Garrett
R ouck, Perry Homer
Hoxsie, Orton
Huggins, Flernoy Walker
Humm, Harry Lewis
Hu'tchin1;1, Alvin George

ROSTER
Irvin, Edward Samuel
Ingersoll, Ralph 'William
Jameson, Alvah Lee
Jenney, Ferdolin
Johnson, Adolph Bernard
Johnson, Albert
.Johnson, Allen Henry
Johnson, Arthur De Cart
Johnson, Chas. Gar
Johnson, Harry G., P. M.
Johnson, Fred 'k Augustus
Johnson, Oscar
.Johnson, Peter
Johnston, Charles Horaee
Jones, Arthur
Jones, Charles S.
Jones, Chas. Tboml\B B.
,Tones, Robert Curtis
Jordon, Robert Collins
Kaler, Alfred Miller
Keefe, Thomas Francis
Kelley, William Landon
· Kemper, Chas. Edwin
Kendrick, Albert
Kennedy, Leneau& Ray
Kennedy, Louis Henry
Kerr, William McLachlan
Kingsbury, William Stephens
Kirshner, Emile
Klein, Henry
Knii?hten, Warren Ashbnry
Knighten, James Osrnon<l
Knighten, William Ammon
Knighten, William White
Kohr, Arthur Garfield
Kramer, Walter Joe
Krowl, Wm. Vreeland
Kuhrts, Edward Wm.
La Berge, Frank William
La Berge, Robert Charles
Lambourn, Fredei:ick
Lancaster, Thomas
Landon, Burt Newton
Lane, Georj?e
Larronde, John Martin

ROSTER
Larson, Andy John
La Touche, Arthur Clyde
Laughton, Fred
Lawton, Joseph
Layng, John Rose
Leckner, Charles Henry
Lee, Charles Franklin
Leix, Frederick, P. M.
Leland, Harry Juen
Lenz, Edmund Henry Carl
Levy, Wm. Chas.
Lewis, George Arthur
Lewis, John James
Lewis, Thomas Henry
Light, Harry Breson
Lillie, Harry Curtis·
Locke, James Neil
Logan, Charles Lincoln
Logan, Wm. George
Long, Frank Benajah
Loomis, Lester Grant
Lose, Jolin Strohm
Loveday, George
Lovett, Gus Ansel
Luckenback, Chas. Augustus
Lusby, Albert Clifford
Lyster, Walter A.
Mabee, James Aaron
Mackay, Roderick
MacKenzie, Andrew Nichols
Madden, Charles William
Madison, Motin Coats
Madoery, Carl Wilhelm Arnold
Magee, Robert
Mabone, Charles B.
Mant, Joseph Bingham
Marshall, Andrew B.
Marshall, Frank Thomas
Martin, Alex.
Martin, Harry Lee
Martin, Karl
Masters, Frank Adelbert
Masters, John Henry
Masters, Oscar P.
34

Maynard, Rea Ec.l~arc.l
M:cCann, Gilbert Donald
McCartney, Herbert Swift G.
McCarty, Walter George
McCarty, William Herbert
McClung, Charles Addison
McColl, John
McCollouh, Frank Overall
McCully, Earl Justin
McCullough, Ray
McCullough, John Alexander
McDonald, David
McDrath, George Wesley
Mcintire, John Roy
McKay, John Patton
McKenney, Chas. Simeon
McJ,achlan, Ar~hibold Alex.
MeLacblan, Willis Linsey
McLarity, Leonard Lawrence
McLeod, Alton De Witt
McMeans, Henry Joseph
McNeil, James Elliott
Medway, Marcus
Mendelschon, Samuel Ellis
Meserve, Edwin Alvin
Miller, Clarence Webster
Miller, Herbert Lee
Miller, Jacob A.
Miller, James Clyde
Miller, George Lee
Miller, George Mikel
Miller, Phil Sheridan
Millette, Charles Joseph
Mitchell, Joseph M. B.
Moore, Albert William ·
Moore, Jerry Carter
Morin, Noles James
Morgan, Charles Mathew
Morgan, Octavious
Morrison, Norman Holt
Morro, Angust Edward
Morton, Silas Frank
Muncy, Curtis
Murphey, Clare Warren

529

ROSTER

530
Nelson, John
Nesbit, Hayes William
Nesterdahl, Gustav Julius
Nethery, William John
Neuner, Sidney Martin, P. M.
Neuner, Thomas William
Newkirk, Adamson Bertley
Newman, Toby
Noble, William Clarence Hayes
Nolton, Chester Dearborn
Norris, James Franklin
Norton, David Reidman
Norton, Isiack F.
Norton, Louis
Nye, Charles Isaac
Obst, Oscar Harmon
Ohlsen, Oscar Ed.
Olive, Harry Lambert
Olney, Elford Lake
Olson, George
Orendorff, Jesse Walworth T.
Owen, Ira Lloyd
Palmer, Truman Henry
Park, Frank Leon
·
Parker, Chrisman Harrison
Parker, George Hampshire
Patterson, George Frank
Patton, William Jesse
Paul, Charles C.
Peck, Earl Wellrose
Perham, Charles Edward
Perigo, Charles Herbert
Perrin, Lewis Edward
Petrie, James Buchan
Pettingill, William Elliott
Pfuhl, Hugo Christopher
Philips, John Isreal
· Philp, Harvey B.
Phipps, Lester Ernest
Pierce. Harry Lewis
Plank, Charles David
Plath, Emil Ludwig
Pontious, Marion Francis
Porter, Lloyd Avey
Post, John Cambel

ROSTEl!
Potts, Amos Harry
Powell, Don St. Clair
Powell, John Benjamin
Powell, Thomas Watkins
Powers, Benjamin Nelson, P. M.
Powers, Cliford Hudson
Powers, Levi Osgood
Preston, Frederick Brewster
Price, Watt Wynn
Priddy, Courtland
Priwer, Aaron
Quackenbush, Richard Orris
Quint, Sumner Joseph
Ravenscroft, Alvia E.
Raymond, Harry James
. Reavis, William Everett
Reed, Parker Clarke
Rees, Samuel
Rees, Walter Bert
Reynolds, Henry Wilson
Rhoads, Ernest
Rice, John Garland
Richmond, Hedley Vicars
Risdon, Alfred J.
Rising, Franklin Edward
Robbins, Herbert Warren
Roberts, Edgar Lee
Robinson, Henry F.
Robinson, Oliver Raymond Wade
Roddam, John
Rodgers, James Frederick
Rogers, Frank Burroughs
Rogers, Read Wyman
Rogers, William
Rogers, William (2)
Romer, Clarence Ernest
Rosenfelt, Benjamin Franklin
Roth, Lewis Frederick
Rowan, Benjamin George
Rowland, Charles Wm.
Royal, George Ambrose
Ruckman, Charles Leroy
Runkle, Frederick William
Ruvane, William Henry
Sadler, Rupert John

Samworth, Arthur Thomas
Sanborn, Charles Henry
Sanborn, Winfred Joseph, P. M.
Sandford, Frederick
Sanduskey, Farran
SchlOi!ser, William Perry
Schmidt, Oscar Emile
Bchwaebe, Lewis H.
Schreiber, William George
Schroeder, Leo Adelmo
Schroer, Clifford Edward
Schultz, Charles Frederick
Sentous, Frank Peter
Sexton, Charles Loyal
Shaffer, Robert Kennedy
Shakeley, Martin Fred 'k
Shanks, Colin
Sharpe, Arthur Eugene
Sharpe, Frederick Henry
Shearer, William Dixon
Sherwin, Edward Underwood
Shields, Samuel Albert
Shiffler, Levi
Shorten, Albert
Shrader, William Wallace, Jr.
Shulthies, Henry
Simmons, Charles Leonard
Simmons, Ernest Nicholson
Simmons, Samuel Finch
Simmons, Joseph
Sisler, Samuel
Bittle, Albert Casper
Slatter, Joseph McGue
Smith, Charles Fulton
Smith, Frederick Augustus
Smith, Gilbert Francis
Smith, James Albert
Smith, John Christopher
Smith, Joseph Augustus, P. M.
Smith, Kirk Emmett
Smith, Wm. Albert
Smith, William S.
Smith, Zena Bruce
Snyder1 William
Solem, Andre"!"

Spiers, Ira Joseph
Spreng, Charles Gottfried
Spreng, Frederick Charles
Stamm, Julius George
Starbuck, Geo. Henry
Stearns, James Bert
Stearns, William Henry
Steddom, Francis White
Steffen, John Martin
Stevenson, Andrew William
Straus, Adolph
Strause, Edward Anderson
Stebzriede, John A. Willard
Stigman, John Josiah
Strong, Lee Abram
Sturgeon, Phineas Boyd
Sunde, Peter Harold
Supler, Chas. Harrison
Supler, Robert Wallace
Swanfelt, John
Sweeney, Clarence Jonathan
Sweet, Ernest James
Tague, Marion Samuel
Talbot, Edward Alonzo, P. M.
Tanner, Robert Wilfred
Taylor, Edward Cary
.Taylor, Floyd Hale
Taylor, Harry Harmon
Taylor, Raymond G. ·
'faylor, Samuel
Teale, Frederick Joseph
Teetzel, Fred William
Temby, Harry Arthur
Thomas, Frederick Smethurst
Thomas, Winfield Corwin
Thompson, Edward H.
Thompson, Paul
Thompson, Ricl1ard
Thormiley, Edward Martin
Thornton, William Crane
Trainor, Charles August
Treleaven, Arthur
Trickle, Ralph Emmerson
Trimble, John Swinburn
True, Herbert Fred

531

ROSTER

532
Turner, Edward
Turner, Geo. Howard
Uber, William Robert
Vandegrift, Charles Rhode
Varey, Harry Louis
Variel, William James
Veenhuysen, John
Vesper, Charles Richard
Vestal, John Everett
Vetter, Louis Fisher
Wade, Amasa Gilmore
Wakelee, Carlton Kellogg
Walker, James
Walton, William Ransom
VY ambold, Edward Howard
'Vandling, George Benjamin
Ward, Thomas James
Ward, William Henry
Warden, Charles Prentis
Watson, George Clark
Watson, Wm.
Weaver, Harry Everett
Webster, Lou B.
Welch, George Stoner
Wells, Dale Owen
Wells, Ulysses George
Welsh, Patrick Joseph
West, Arthur Jerome
West, Ernest L.
W estren, Harry Frederick
Wetzel, Edwin Charles
Berres, Benjamin
Carter, Henry Edwin
Condley, Darrell
Dyas, Bernal Hubert

Wheeler, Clayton Jay
White, Harry Edgar
White, Myers Taylor
Whitmore, Henry
Wickoff, Harry Alphonzo
Wilkey, Arthur Septimus
Williams, George W.
Williams, Wm. David
Wilson, James
Wilson, Licuel George
Wilson, Sila11 A.
Winlack, James Trepland
Wirsching, Carl Bernardino
Wirshing, Robert Ernest
Wohefarth, August
Womack, Barney Lee
Wood, Thompson
W oodill, Hiram Blanchard
Woodis, Warren Albe·rt
Wood, Stanley
Woods, Albert Alex.
Woolsey, John Grant
Workman, Boyle
Workman, William Henry
Wray, :Marshall Wiley
Wright, Arthur Lowe
Wylie, John Perry
Young, Charles ·Franklin, P. M.
Youngworth, Leo Valtus, P. M.
Zimmerman, Roy Elden
Zobler, :Michael M.
-656

WITHDRAWN:
Levering, Martin Murray
Sickel, Frederick Henry
Shuman, John William
Williams, Julius J.
Warren, Hugh Mead

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Sessions, Nathan Paine

Chrissman, Arthur Asia

LaBerge, Frank Edward
Lofthouse, Charles Pendleton
Manning, Clarence Wescott
MacLennan, Alexander Frazer

DIED:
MacGillevray, George Barnett
Ruddy, William
Straus, Robert M. (F. C.)
Willard, Cyrus

533

ROSTER

SOUTH GATE LODGE, No.

320.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
Corner Thirty-third and Main Streets.
OFFICERS:

Ralph Waldo E. Cole, Master,
319 W. 38th St.
Guy Hyde Casler, Senior Warden,
Ai Forrest Locke, Junior Warden,
Elbert Taylor Parke, Treasurer,
Frank Harrison White, Secretary,
330 E. Jefferson St.
Adams, David Lewie
Addis, John La Clair
Alexakis, Louis James
Alex1mder, George
Alford, Chauncey Higley
Allen, Albert A., P. M.
Anderson, Charles John
Archer, Tobias Robert
Armstrong, Arnold
Arnold, Emmer Bowman
Arnold, Frank Norman
Asbury, Frank Hubert
Atkins, George Mall
Atkinson, Cecil Ross
Austin, Foster Calhoun, P. M.
Austin, Walter Erskine
Baker, Peterson Smith, P. M.
Ball, Charles Edwin
Ball, Robert Bruce
Barber, George Francis
Barber, Jay Bm:dett
Barlotti, James Anthony
Barnaby, Asa
Barrett, Frederick
Bartlett, Cornelius
Bartlett, Oswald
Bean, George, Jr.
Beattey, Jamee Leo

Martin Luther Griffith, Cha{llain,
Willis Foster Oliver, Sen. Deacon,
George Edwin Cota, Junior Deacon,
Frank Clifford Knox, Marshal,
Alfred Sautter, SteWtl.rd,
Willis David Wetmore, Steward,
Arthur Milton Bird, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bell, Edgar Newton
Bell, Frederick Chas.
Bellinger, Warren A.
Bellringer, Edward Aubrey
Beutel, Frederick Carl
Bercander1 Per Gustav Na.thaniel
Berry, Hartley Maxwell
Best, James McCabe
Bettinger, Marcus Clark
Bevan, Eugene Alexander
Beyrle, Robert
Biles, Elmer Ellsworth
Binz, Edward Gabriel
Bird, Arthur Milton
Blake, Benjamin Howard
Blank, George .Toseph
Blank, Harry Gordon .
Bluff, Charles George
Bobeldy, K. Peter
Boggs, Chas. Alvin
Bonynge, William Alfred
Boone, Richard G.
Bopst, Robert David
Borgum, Edwin Arnold
Bowden, Henry Clintoll
Boyd, Geo. Musson
Boyd, Walter Leigh
Bradley, Knowlton R.

534
Bradley, Leigh Porter
:Bradley, William
Brady, Joseph John
Brasher, William Summerville
Brawner, Charles Robert
Briggs, John William
Brinkerhoff, Orlando Bertrum
Brisco, John
Brittain, John Randolph
Broeker, Howard Linsley
Brown, August John
Brown, James Dougal
Brown, James Henri
Brown, Tom James
Bruce, George Orange
Buchles, John Wesley Marion
Buckingham, William James
Buhles, Frederick Charles
Bulfinch, Stephen Amos
Burgess, Henry Arthur
Burroughs, Granville George
Butler, Frank Bertrand
Butterfield, John Wesley
Butterworth, Albert Stanton
Caldwell, John Alex.
Caleb, Clarence Jones
Cameron, Allen Wilbur
Campbell, Edward William
Campbell, Emerson Bristol
Campbell, John Bartholomew
Carleton, Ben Harris
Carlson, Milton
Carpenter, John Maline
Carpenter, Leigh Richard
Car~er, Harry Von
Carter, Norman Brace
Cartman, Simon Joseph
Case, George Boyd
Casler, Guy Hyde
Cass, Bruce Alonzo
Cayne, James Lloyd
Chalmers, Geo. Buckingham
r.bn.mbers, William
Chesley, Benjamin Millard
Chick, .Joseph Earl

ROSTER
Chotzinoff, Samuel
Clark, Ray Webster
Clark, Thomas Maxwell
Clemente, Charles C. A.
Coenen, Gustav Adolph
Cole, Ralph W. E .
Collier, Frank Chester
Collins, Charles W.
Colman, James Edward
Colvin, Robert
Condon, William James
Conklin, Lewis Henry
Conklin, Wright
Cook, Clarence W.
Cook, Benjamin Augustus
Coon, Chas. Arthur
Copeland, Atwood Reynolds
Costerisan, George Felix
Cota, George Edwin
Cotter, Frank Edward
Cousins, Oliver Ross
Cox, John Randolph
Cramer, William Henry
Cribb, James Coburn
Criswell, Ralph Luther
Crook, Delbert Henry
Cross, William S.
Cuccia, Peter Luke
Cummings, James Bostwick
Cunningham, Elbert Clinton
Curl, Samuel Alexander
Dalton, Nathan
Danenhower, William James
Davey, William Edward
Davis, Frank Edward
Davis, Hugh Clinton
DeBerry, Angus Jasper
Deeds, Douglas Daniel
Deffebach, Elbert
De Haven, James Lapsley
Deibler, Emanuel Wesley
Dekker, Benjamin
Delamare, Alfred Corbin
Deman, Max
Detlor, John Freeman

ROSTER
Diethl'lm, Conrad Eugene
Devendorf, Fred Clark
Dill, Robie Everett, P. M.
Dillingham, Louis Earl
Domke, Henry Isadore
Donohugh, William Lincoln
Drake, Frank Norton
Drummond, Edwin Charles
Duncan, John
Dunn, Arvine Spencer
Dunn, Frederick William, P M.
Dunn, Geo. Hamilton
Durard, George Felix
Dusoe, Robert Moses
Dutwiler, Michael Eby
Eader, Lewis William
Earing, Edwin Wood
Earll, James Cornelius
Eastman, DeBarrett
Eby, Emmett Lenard
Eby, John Leonard
Eccleston, Joseph William
Eichhorn, Herman . John
Elrlridge, Thomas Bolling
Ellis, Edward Stephen
Ellis, Josephus Elijah
Espe, Frederick
Evans, Frank Robert
Evans, Thomas Jerome
Faithfull, Reginald Percy
Falkenstein, Harry L.
Farino, Joseph
Faris, William Adam
Farmer, Jasper
Faust, Frank Ab"ner
Fawver, Willis Floyd
Felsenthal, Louis ·
Flanagan, George Lewis
Fleming, Thomas Jefferson
Fletcher, John Joseph
Follows, John
Ford, Benjamin Franklin
Foster, Edward Clarence
Francisco, Andrew Wiggin11
Franklin, James Breckenridge

Frost, Arba Wright
Fulton, Preston Demreth
Gardiner, John ·Nesmyth
Gardner, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Gates, Arthur Frank
Gaubatz, Louis
Gay, Cassius Mason
Gaynor, William Henry, P. M.
Gehricke, Lee
Gerson, Edward
Giambastiani, Alfredo
Giambastiani, Egisto
Giambastiani, Francisco
Gibbs, Charles Alfred
Gifford, Arthur Lee
Gifford, Clarence May
Gifford, Robert Lee
Gilham, Ardis
Gillett, Fr!ld James
Girdlestone, Charles Henry
Gleasner, Peter Alex.
Goddard, William Henry
Goldman, Clarence Orlando
Goldman, Gordon Bruce
Gollong, Henry Leroy
Goode, James Lynn
Gooding, Henry Clay
Graham, Wm. Newman
Graheck, Geo. Andrew
Gray, Frank Richard
Gregg, William Seaton
Griffith, Martin Luther, P. M.
Groff, Charlie Addison
Gruber, Thomas John
Hackley, George Trowbridge
Hahn, Philip, P. M.
Halder, Joseph ·
Hall, John Allen
Halliwell, Chas. Sleazer
Halliwell, Wm. Henry, Jr.
Hamilton, George Reed
Hampe, George Solomon
Hancock, Walter Perry
·Harazthy, Chas. Ernest
Harper, Charles Harvie

535

536

Harris, All'red
Harrie, Edwin Benton
Harris, Samuel
Harshbarger, Chas. Arthur
Hart, Dwight Howard
Hart, George Alandeon, P. M.
Hart, Harry Elmer
Haetreiter, Rolland Frederick
Hathaway, Worth Murray
Havlin, William Sidwell
Hays, Ewing
Hays, John
Hazen, Robert Lee
Heasley, Harry Walter
Heaton, Charles Page
Heffernan, William Thomas
Heins, Charles Wesley
Iiellyer, Willmer Sherman
Henderson, Frank Gilbert
Hendsch, Lawrence McGraw
Henrickson, Louie Christian
Henry, Leslie A.
Henry, William Albert
Heyl, Trippon D.
Hicks, Charles Forest
Hill, Horton Overton
Hillman, Archie Melvin
Hillman, Richard George
Hitchcock, William Wesley
Hodge, Edward Tappon
Hoeffer, Albert Herbert
Hoffman, Winnie Eugene
Holliday, Arthur
Holmes, Lawrence
Holton, Harry Wood
Homann, Emil
Howe, James Edward
Hooker, Charles L. F.
Hopperstead, Eric Warren
Horlock, Harry Buckhurst
Hornbuckle, Forrest Wm.
Horton, Rufus Landon
Hossack, Lawrence N.
Housman, Wilbur B.
Howe, George Edward

ROSTER
Howry, Robert Root
Hutf, Charles Clayton
Huff, Stephen Elmer
Hughes, Eugene Montague
Hunt, Carl William
Hunter, Geo. Seward
Husted, Thomas Seymour
Imus, David Lorren
Irwin, Robert
Jackson, Wm. Goldthwait
Janett, John
Jepson, Carl George
Johannsen, Johan Frederick
Johnson, Adolphus Gustavus
Johnson, Chas. Ross
Johnson, Franklin
Johnson, Fred'k Christian
Johnson, Victor Andrew
Jonas, Clinton Newton
Jonas, Orville Owen
Jones, Edward Douglas
Jones, George Wiley
Jones, John Jaccb
Jones, John Sandlin
Jones, Julius Cyrns
Jones, Richard Pray
Joseph, Leonard
Joyce, James Alphonso
Julius, Peter Michael
Kamellos, Peter
Keeran, Chas. Wm.
Kelker, Lester Collins
Kelsey, Frank Meeker
Kemp, John William, P. M.
Kent, Leo Edward
Kerr, Thomas William
Key, Alvin Edgar
Kilner, William Henry B.
King, Foster Robert
King, George Irving
King, John Millen
King, William Levi
Kinne, Oscar Franklyn
Kinney, Burt Ornon
Kistler, Samuel Lindsley

ROS'rER
Kneip, Emil Adolph
Knox, Frank Crawford
Koll, August Juergen
Koll, Walter August
Kolp, William
Kruell, Frederick Clement, P. M.
Lamb, Stacey Caldwell
Lamb, Theo. Pusey
La Moree, Claude De Witt
Lang, Frederick Selwyn
Lanterman, Frank Dexter
Larkin, Albert Henry
Latham, Leroy
Lauder, Benj. Stewart
Lawrence, Geo. Alfred
La wrenee, John Gordon
Leary, Frederick James
Leek, William Frederick
Lenox, Andrew Jackson
Lesoine, John Adam
Lewie, Eugene Arnold
Lickley, Ernest Jame9on
Lintner, William
Lloyd, Charles
Lloyd; Edward
Lloyd, Francis Harold
Lloyd, Lewis Marshall
Locke, Ai Forrest
Lockwood, Edward Bruce
Loomis, Alvah Everett
Losekamp, Gustave Willard
Love, Charles Evans
Lowe, James Henry Eldon
Lubin, Benjamin
Lucore, Clarence Ellsworth
MacDonald, Wm. Henry
MaePhereon, Walter Alex.
Maehtig, E.ugene
Mainich, John Andrew
Maitre, Charles Joseph
Malloy, James
Mann, John Jacob
Marr, Hinton Nicholas
Marsh, Charles Page
Martindale, Walter W.

537

Mason, Frank George
Matheson, Robert
Mathie, Elbert Nelson
Mathis, John Antheny
Matthay, Ferdinand Louil!I
Matthews, Clyde Herbert
Mayer, Joseph Bernard
Maye, Terry
McAllister, Frank Allister
McAllister, James Pinkerton, P. M.
MeAlpine, David Johnson
McBride, Harper E1Ieworth
McClure, Alfred
MeCollister, Charles
MeCollum, Alvin Sanborn
MeCollum, Frank Elwin
McConnell, Lee Aline
McCreery, Samuel Robert
McCulley, William Bissell
McDavitt, Daniel, Jr.
McDonald, Chae. Wm.
McDonald, Frank
McDonald, Norman
McGilliard, Gideon Delosa, P. M.
McGinty, William Gipson
McGraw, James Henry
McGuire, Guy
McKay, William
McKeon, C. Roy
McKeon, Harry
McKibbon, Rupert Edward
McKinley, James Welford
McKnight, Louis Columbus
MeMillan, Daniel Alex.
McNeely, Thomas Berry
Meagher, Charlcl!I Francis
Meek, William
Mehlo, John Henry
Meiklejohn, Matthew Caldwell
Meltzer, Arthur
Mendell, Asa Yoemans
Michelson, Fred Maurice
Milburn, Thomal!I Smedley
Miller, Qharles
Miller, George Francis

538

ROSTER

Miller, Henry
Miller, Jesse Everett
Miller, Merton James
Miller, Robert Warren
Minton, John Erwin
Mirgon, Frank Ambrose ·
Moorhead, George Bonynge
Montgomery, Melville Luther
Montgomery, Wayne Warren
Morgan, Edward Wm.
Morganstern, Alfred J.
Morin, Samuel Williamson
Morrison, Robert Vincent
Mosley, Frederick Clifford
Moss, Jacob Daniel
Moss, Leon Fremont
Moyer, Charles
Muller, Frederick Frank
Murch, Edward Weston
Musselman, John William, P. M.
Myers, Cecil Bauer
Myers, Chas. Lincoln
Nance, Roy
Nadeau, Hubert
Nelger, Richard Albert
Neiswender, · Chester Bernard
Newell, John J.
Nicolaus, William
Niederer, Walter John
Noble, Ivory Bean
Noice, Blaine
Norton, Chalmers Scott
Nunsbaum, Israel
Oakes, Edward Taylor
Odemar, Fritz
Oliver, Willis Foster
Olsen, Julius
Olshausen, Olfwald Leo.
Ourfalian, Paul Larken
Park, Albert David
Parke, Elbert Taylor, P. M.
Parke, Oliver Hazard P., P. M
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Ira
Parker, Joseph · Paul

Parker, Robert
Parsons, Alfred Harry
Pauly, Julius
Pawley, Joshua Medlin
Payne, Rottham Kenner
Pearne, Jamie Dillaye
Pearson, Ralph Richmond
Penfield, Benj. Lester
Pepping, John
Perrelli, Roxey
Peters, Charles Rufus, Jr.
Peters, David Busham
Peterson, Frederick Erskine
Pepe, Fernando
Perry, Arthur St. Clair
Pessell, George Douglas
Pfaff, William Henry
Philp, Harry Grafton Rowe ·
Phister, Richard Louis, P. M.
Rierce, Franklin Gibson
Pierce, Fred 'k Edgar Roger
Pike, Charles
.Porter, William Sterling
Posch, John
Potter, Bernard
Potts, Henry Samuel
Preston, Jasper Newton
Pretz, Jacob Christian
Pritchard, Stephen Lacy, P. M.
Prosser, Albert John
Quaglino, Louis
Quitzow, Charles
Ralston, Danton Ellms
Ramsden, Craven
Randall, Ottho Lee
Rank, Isaac Elliott
·Rankin, William John, P. M.
Rebman, John
' Reed, Charles Joseph
·Redd, Harry Leroy
Reel, Peter Alex.
-i?etger, George Wash., ,Tr.
Ricciardi, Nicholas A.
Rice, George Basserman
Rice, James Edward

ROSTER
Riedeman, John Henry
Roberti, Edward Lincoln
Roberts, Guy Malcom
Robinet, Joseph Z.
Robinson, Clarence Curtemius
Rockwell, Allen Baer
Roeder, Frederick
Roeder, Karl, Jr.
Rohde, Charles Julius
Romig, James Postfield
Rose, Daniel T.
Rose, Louis Carl
Rossiter, Holland Benson
Roth, August
Roth, Otto Morris
Rowe, Wm. Henry, Jr.
Rudolph, Wm. Fred
Russell, Robert Nimmo
Ryse, Richard
Sanders, George Leon
Saunders, William Seymour
Sartwell, John Royal
Sautter, Alfred
Schield, Daniel
Schmalzried, Edward
Schmenger, Louis Frederick
Schmitz, John
Schultz, Carl Edgar
Schwartz, Adolph
Scott, Arthur Morseman
Senegram, Philip
Shafer, Timothy Elsworth
Shearer, Geo. Wm.
Sheets, Sylvester Newton
Short, Carroll Wilson
Shott, William Philip
Sibley, Wm. Morgan
Seibert, LewiB' Frederick
Siefert, John W.
Simonson, Albert
Singleton, James William, P. M.
Skelton, Horace White
Skinner, Eckert
Slater, James Andrew
Slater, William R.

Slicton, George Henry
Smith, Fred Geo.
Smith, George William
Smith, Herbert Lee
Smith, Isaac Horatio
Smith, Jacob August
Smith, James
Smith, Llewellyn James
Smith, Robert Jefferson
Smith, Robert Pendleton
Smith, Samuel Barnes
Smith, Stanley Bishop
Snowden, Earl Foster
Snowden, John Whitney
Snowden, William Nelson
Sohm, Alfred
Sprague, James Wesley
Stader, Jacob Edward
Stansberry, Charles Vivian
Startzrnan, Charles Frederic
Steckel, George
Steinbock, Carl
Stewart, John Taylor
Stine, Isaac D.
Stockwell, Chas. Martin
Stone, William Harry
Stopp, John Franklin
Strayer, Arthur James
Sugarman, Jacob Jay
Sullivan, Frank Marion
Summers, Alexis Charles
Sutton, Gilbert Campbell
Suydam, James Stothoff
Sweet, Alvin Harold
Sweet, Charles Alvin, P. M.
Sweet, Lewis Stephen
Tanner, David Wolf
Tanner, Wallace Lional
Taylor, Edson Baldwin.
Thompson, Frank Westland
Thompson, Joseph Shepherd
Thompson, Rip Victor
·Thompson, Samuel Hueston
Tierman, Samuel
Tipton, Charles Melville

539

540
Tipton, Melville Rowe
Todd, Ulysses Samuel G., P. M.
Trainor, John
Trainor, John William
Traster,. William Harrison
Trisler, Edgar Wright
Tritt, William Winters, P. M.
Truesdell, Clifford Ambrose
Tubman, William
Tulloch, Thomas Mcintosh
Unwin, Edward George Oxford
Valiant, Charles Weldon
Valiant, Frank Doble
Valiant, Harry Alfred
Van Alstyne, George Warren
Van Horn, Chas. Edward
Van Norman, Harvey Arthur
Van Norman, James Linn
Van Sickle, Raymond E.
Van Steenis, Genit Martin
Van Tobie, Karl William
Viero, John Paul
Vigne, George Eugene F.
Wagner, Daniel Art.bur
Walker, Blaine
Walker, John Ansley
Walker, Perry Jay
Wallace, Edward Harris
Walsh, Frank Edward
Ward, John Oliver
Warren, William Jackson
Webb, Charles Marion
Weber, John
Weichmann, Henry Philip
Weinspach, Erwin Roland
Weisbart, Lewis
Weiser, Abraham Grant
Welch, William Ormond
Wellborn, Charles
Wells, Charles Jedidiah
W erdin, Ernest Rudolph
West, Frank
W estrem, John Lawrence

ROSTER

ROSTER
Wetmore, Willis David
Wheat, Hiram Rogers
Wheeler, John Bernard
Wheeler, Royall Walter
Wheeler, Wm. Ashley
Wherle, George Maurice
White, Arthur Burton
White, Frank Harrison
Whitfield, Robert
Whitehead, Alex.
Whitehead, Hugh
Whitman, Eugene Martin
Whitney, Grant Ulysses
Whomes, Clarence Sinclair
Wickersham, Daniel Ross
Wickstrom, Eric Gustave
Wilcox, Kearney Lee, P. M.
Wilcut, John Alfred
Wiles, Solomon Franklyn
Wilkinson, Thomas Bertrand
Williams, Charles Allen, P. M.
Williams, Harry Frank
Willis, Charles Golden
Wilson, Andrew Porter
Wilson, Edward Maro
Wilson, Frank Stewart
Wilson, Nathaniel Elmer
Wolf, Frank Charles, P. M.
Wolf, Frank Edward
Wood, Emerson Lee
Wood, George Henry
Wood, Jack Arthur
Workman, Robert Ferguson
Wright, George Veach
Wuestho:ff, Maumilian W.
Wyman, Elliott Bailey
Wyman, Frank Ir~ng, Jr.
Yard, Edmond De Witt
Young, Walton
Young, William, P. M.
Zarrs, Hobart Ralph
Zarubica, Sako
Ziegler, John Louis
-,-682

Bull, Robert Wilson
Crippen, Ellery Hicks
Molle, Baptiste Antoine

541

WITHDRAWN:
Shaw, William Herbert
Stauffer, Roy Alton
Walters, William Thomas

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Adams, Chester Lowell
Moore, Charles Elijah
Curry, John Michael
Murphey, Charles Simon
Fennessy, Thomas Downey
Pawley, James John
Jacobus, Delbert Wayne
Riggle, Elmer Willis •
Linder, Claudius Wade
Salyer, Alfred Mark
Lovelace, Archibald Manu'el
Salyer, Charles Alfred
Shafer, Charles Franklin

Glover, Percy Carson
Hale, Robert, Jr.
Palmer, Amos Lorenzo

DIED:
Pratt; Prank Fay
Richter, Joseph Edward
Savage, William Edward
Summers, Samuel Lee

ALISAL LODGE, No.

321.

Pleasanton, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, First Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Albrecht, Herman William
Crellin, Earle Adair
Apperson, Elbert Clark
Crellin, Ernest Willard
Bannister, Joseph Arnold
Cruikshank, James Robert
Benedict, Edward Lewis
Dall, Christian Hansen
Bonde, Hans Peter
Darden, William Henry
Bryan, Daniel
Day, Arthur Chester
Cale, .John Thomas
Day, Walter
Chadbourne, Henry Pierce, P. M.
Dakin, Wilbur Jameson, P. M.
Colestock, Logan Alfred
Ebright, Aaron Wallace
Cope, John Hal
Ellis, Robert
Corbett, Henry Havelock
Feusier, Henry Edward C.
Crellin; Charles Louis
um, James s.

ROSTER

ROSTER

542

Graham, Wm. Horace
Haley, John Tall
Hall, Ernest Edwin, P. M.
Hall, Fred James
Harms, Martin Frederick E.
Harris, Neal
Harris, Thomas William, P. M.
Helms, John Robert
Hitchcock, Jess
Hopper, Wm. Wesley
Jury, Riley
Kupfer, John Adams
Letham, Crawford
Madsen, Peter Cleveland
:Mayo1 Clarence Earl
:Mohr, Henry Paul, P. M.
Paulsen, James

Peach, Rathsay Castle
Peterson, Antone Iversen
Richards, Ueorge Henry
Rock, Peter, P. M.
Saunders, Joseph W.
Schad, George Edward
Schween, Walter James
Schween, William Frederick
Silver, Thomas Homer, P. M.
Sinclair, Hugh Arnold
Smallwood, Claude
Stannard, .John Carl .
Therkelsen, Hans Christian
Trimingham, George
Walter, Louis Christian, P. M.
Wells. SaIQuel Jenkins, P. M.

-57

WITHDRAWN:
Throup, P~ter Christian
DIED:
:Meyerhoffer, Oke Harold

ALHAMBRA LODGE, No.

322.

Alhambra, Los Angeles County.
Stated :Meetings, second :Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Charles Woods, Master,
George Thomas Hanley, Chaplain,
411 No. Electric Ave.
Harry Walter Slotterbe~k, Sen. Deac.
Ernest Elwood Ford, Sen. Warden, John Niles Gillies, Junior Deacon,
Clifford Hallock Everdon, J. Ward., Addison Locke Roache, Marshal,
Charles Wesley Allen, Treasurer,
Frank W. Brecken:idge, Steward,
Lafayette Daucy White, Secretary, Roy Thornton Smith, Steward,
. 409 So. 4th St.
Theodore Knight, Tyler.

Abbot, Joseph Rodney
Adams, Scott :Mygatt
Algie, :Matthew
Allen, Charles Wesley

:MEMBERS:
Anderson, Charles Axel
Andres, Frank Edward
Bailey, Charles Alden
Bailey, Elmer Ellsworth

Balmer, Herbert Bertram
Damon, William H.
Davis, Ervin Charles
Barnum, Oliver Shepard
Dee, Harold Douglas
Baron, Joseph Vincent
Diebenkorn, Clarence E.
Baynton, Geo. Henry
Dolge, Henry
Behlow, Irwin Wesley :Merritt
Drake, Samuel Ambrose
Beier, Edgar Lindsay
Dyer, Ralph Hanson
Bennett, Geo. Garrett
Biddle, George Arthur
Easley, Charles Henry
Easley, Oscar Franklin
Bishop, Charles Alden
Edwards, David Wm., Jr.
Bishop, Herbert Fiske
Elbert, Geo. J.
Bolz, Emil
Everdon, Clifford Halleck
Borden, Gail
:Parrell, Walter Getman
Brady, Charles Evey
Farmer, Edward Lewis
Brady, Ernest Lasota
Fairly, Rolland Blaine
Brase, Joseph
Brase, Robert Adolph
Flaisig, Nathan William
Breckenridge,.Frank William
Fleming, Earl Jules
Brittle, David
Fohman, Eugene
Brittle, Norman David
Foote, Robert Ordway
Bronaugh, Charles Augustus
Ford, Ernest Elwood
Bronaugh, Daniel Dodge
Fosdick, Clarence Watson
Brown, Burton Leroy
F'oss, Josiah D.
Brown, Edgar D.
Garard, Walter Raymond
Brown, Fred
Gardner, Samuel L.
Bullis, Sherman Allen, P. M.
Gaskell, Herbert Evarts
Butterbaugh, Melvin Ulysses, P. M. Gates, Austin Bryant
Cameron, George W.
Gates, George David
Cartwright, Benj. Brooks, P. M.
Gillies, John Niles
Cartwright, James Lawson
Graham, Clarenco Van
Caulk, Harry Parsons
Grainger, Ernest Cornelius
Chandler, Charles Woods
Gray, Francie Edward
Charles, :Merrill Stull
Greene, Earle Wells
Hall, Arthur Frederick
Chapman, Frank Alvin
Clapp, Arheibald Willard
Hall, Jimmie Napier, P. M.
Clapp, Ralph Bissell, P. M.
Hanley, George Thomae
Clapp, Randall Corning
Hanscome, Henry Irving, P. M.
Clarke, Ernest Lester
Hanscome, Lewie P.
Cohen, Benjamin
Haub, Frank
Coon, Thaddeus Stevens
Heslop, Stephen J.
Corey, Francis Edwin
Hawkins, Arthur George
Cornell, Ernest Bone
Hazelhurst, .Tames L.
Cosby, Spain Stuckey
Hazelton, Will Edwin
Creamer, James :Montgomery, P. M. Henke, Bernard Antone
Crow, Samuel Dickinson
Herold, James Ernest
Curtis, Ralph Gilson
Hickman, Emery Ulysses

54::

544
Holt, Thomas Elijah E.
Hover, David Edward
Ingraham, Freeman Edwin
James, Samuel Polk
Jarecki, Raymond Willis
Johnson, Albert John
Johnson, August
Johnson, Frank Leon
Johnson, Henry Alfred
Johnston, Rufus
Jones, Cary Wilson
Jones, Jefferson Davis
Jones, Jefferson Thomas
Kaufman, Charles F.
Keating, Henry C.
Kerr, Matthew
Kimball, Andrew Hervey
Kropf, Louis Leonard
Lansford, .James M.
Lansford, Russell Roscoe
· Larson, Earnest A.
Lattin, Frank Byron
Lattin, Kelley Walter
Lee, Stewart
Leonard, Elwood W.
Lingenfelder, Edward
Lloyd, William FraziPr
Lord, Thomas Newton
Lundy, Walter James
Madsen, Mads Christian
Malcom, William
March, Daniel Webster
Marshall, Fred Whitney
Marshall, Frank Valentine
Martin, Robert S.
McClellan, James Edward
McDonald, Henry Dalton
McDonough, James
Messenger, Albert C.
Messenger, Bernard Ellis
Messenger, John
Mindleton, William Philip
Miles, Harry Store
Miller, Jacob
Moeller, Adolph

ROSTER
Molique, Philip R.
Montgomery, Arthur A.
Montgomery, James Marion
Morgan, Guy Stephen
Mulock, Daniel Connolly
Mundy, Stephen Edwin
Munsell, William Alex. Oliver
Murray, James Cargill
Myers, John Albert
Myren, Olof G., P. M.
Nenendorfer, Charles
Nice, Harry Warren
Northrup, William Moulton, P. M.
Norris, John Philip
Olson, Frank Thomas
Olson, Hans
Olson, Henry John, P. M.
Parker, Benjamin Franklin
Passino, Franklin Gilbel't
Patten, Frenerick William
Pease, Frank D.
Pederson, Christen
Pederson, Theodore
Perkins, Frank Albert
Pitzer, Sloan, P. M.
Ploenes, Wm. Henry
Prince, Purley Ogden
Proctor, Don Pascal
Radcliff,. Francis Henry
Reighard, Earl Marion
Reighard, Wave
Reynolds, Duncan L.
Rice, Raymond Leonard
Richardson, Gustav us A.
Rief, Hans
Roache, Addison Locke
Robins, Leigh Hoskyns
Robinson, Thomas Wilfred
Rodgers, Lester Denison
R.ose, Bertram Donald
Rose, Le Roy Clifton
· Rossi, Albert
Russell, Harold Clark
Scott, Edgar James
Seay, John Philip

ROSTER
Sexton, Joseph Brownell
Shafer, Edgar Esterley
Sipprell, William A.
Slotterbeck, Harry Walter
Smith, Roy Thornton
Smither, John W.
Snow, Newton Jasper
Sorenson, Neal, P. M.
Stanton, Edmund Wood
Stevens, William Oliver
Stewart, Hugh Ford
Stone, Fred George
Strifler, Chester Eldrige
Stuart, Edward Brookbank, P. M.
Sutton, Earl Vernon
Swan, Harry E.
Taylor, Walter T.
Teagarden, Jacob Brown
Thompson, Newton Warren, F. M.
Thunack, Julius Hermann
Utter, Frank Ames
Utter, Samuel Leon
Van Hagen, Fren
Wade, Harry Michael
'Vade, Thomas Joseph
Wallace, Robert Bruce
Wallace, Robert M.

646

Walters,. Simon
Wardman, Geo. Benjamin
Ware, Henry Peace
Watkins; Frank K.
Webb, Elwood Thomas
Webb, Ezra Bailey, Jr.
Weymire, George Eugene
Whaley, Albert Allen
Wheat, Charles Albert
White, Douglas
White, L. D.
Wickerd, Homer Merritt
Wilbur, Andrew E .
Wilks, Frank
Willard, Frank Stansbury
Willis, William Elmer
Winter, Chas. W.
Wirth, George
Witherbee, Orville O., P. M.
Wood, Wm. D.
·w oodbury, Valentine
Woods, James Chas.
W oolpert, Royal Myren
Wuest, Samuel Franklin
Yerian, Wm. Henry
Yelland, George L.
Yerian, Clyde
-241

WITHDRAWN:
MacUlean, William A.

Cartright, Alexander B.

Behlow, Robert Roscoe
Ferguson, Edwin Paul
Hatch, Theophilus

DIED:
Hudson, Charles William
*Moeller, Adolph
Smith, Charles V.
Wade, Clarence Francis

•Affiliated during the year.

35

..
546

R~TER

ROSTER
French, Eugene Kinkade
Fletcher, Marcus Elwood
Gilman, Charles Sidney
Glasgow, Samuel Everett
Gwin, Aneil
Gwin,.John Henry
Graves, Myron Oscar
Graves, Charles Newton
Gray, Fred Willis
Gregg, Augustua Hugh
Guthrie, Finis William, P. M.
Haskell, Edward Prince
Hatch, Richard Melvin
Hazzard, Carroll Camper
Hazzard, Frederick A.
_ ...r
Hazzard, George Lee
Hazzard, Marshall Lyman
Hayes, Samuel Buchanan
Heath, Ralph Everett
Hendrickson, John F.
Henry, Samuel Lawrence
Hiatt, John C.
Hiatt, William Macy, P. M.
Hill, George Goldsmith
Holbrook, Morrill
Hole, Willett J.
Holton, Charles Rufus
Hunt, Milo
Hutchinson, Manuel B.
Inners, Aaron
.Tacobs, Alfred
Johnson, Lewis
Jones, Leo
Jones, Stephen Luther
Keene, Ed. Ballard
Kendrick, Henry W.
Lawhead, George C.
Lloyd, Thomas Ervin
Locke, James S.
Maddox, Jeff Thomas
Manson, Frank Rodney
Martin, William Herndon
Maulsby, Larkin W.
Maulsby, Orlando Wood
McDonald, Hugh

WHITTIER LODGE, No. 323.
Whittier, Los Angeles Count7.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next precedi1111' Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ralph McNees, Master,
Benjamin Franklin Brya11, Chaplain,
Whittier, Cal.
Lonnia Clarence Montgomery, S, D11.,
Edward Prince Haskell, Sen. Ward., John Clayton Squires, Junior Deaco11 ,
Ralph Everett Heath, Jun. Ward ., Daniel Reid, Marshal,
John Henry Gwin, Treasurer,
Samuel Everett Glas~ow, Steward,
John Anton Christiansen, Secretary, Fred Hayes Wise, Steward,
Box 235, Whittier, Cal.
John Wesley Whitson, Tyl1r.
MEMBERS:
Adams, William George
Clabaugh, Adam Grant
Albertson, Emery
Cornett, Jamea Henry
Albertson, Olnlly Christopher
Crane, Donald Leroy, P. M.
Allen, Milo
€ulver, Bert Lewis
Arfwedson, Carl Edward
Cunningham, Ed. Clark
Dahlitz, Paul
Ault, Henry
Bauer, Lewis Jacob
Davidson, Lewis Halberton
Davis, James William
Bell, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Bellamy, Ira Henry
De Ment, Earl Bilton
Billingsley, Jonathan
Denninger, Paul John, P. M.
Binford, David Samuel
Denney, Lewis Hoyt
Blasdel, Elijah Sparks
Dressor, William L.
Blinn, Irving Lewis
Dunham, Ozro Kenneth
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Sr.
Bold, Francis James
E<!eburn, Edward B.
Borden, Lindon A.
Ellis, Nathan D., P. M.
Bostaph, Charles A.
Buffington, Charles Clifton
Emory, Arthur Theo.
Butman, John S.
Evans, Christmas Stephen
Butterfield, Edward Clarence, P. M. Evans, John W.
Easley, Edgar L.
Burke, Edwin Alonzo
Fairchild, John Jasper
Caldwell, Chas. Joseph
Farnsworth, John C.
Coverley, John Henry
Flanders, George Hiram
Campbell, Allan Bruce
Flanders, Ray Johnston
Campbell, Frank Chester
Fletcher, Frank Augustus
Carroll, Geo. Harrison
Foster, Fred Monroe
Carter, Eber Earnest
Frampton, Thomas Madge, P. M.
Christensen, John Anton
Frantz, Frank Edward
Christiansen, Peter Ivan
Frantz, Raymond Fleetwood
Cobb, Edward Sigourney

.

McMillen, David Matlison
McNees, Ralph
Miller, Frank De
Milliken, Charles
Moorhead, Talbert Buchanan
Morehous, Benjamin Franklin
Monroe, George Walter
Montgomery, Lonnie Clarence
Mook, Charles Stanley
Myers, Lemuel Allen
Nickson, John
Otis, Herbert Barr
Owens, Frank Centennial, P. M.
Payne, Edwin Hiscutt
Pease, James Gibson
Powers, Jerome Frank, P. M.
Rainbolt, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Raymer, Floyd Parkis
Reed, Arthur Lucius
Reed, Cass Arthur
Reed, Ralph John
Rees, Cassius Alfred
Rees, Winfield Seott
Reichling, William George, P. M.
Reid, Daniel
Reider, Eddy Willis
Rendleman, Andrew Jackson
Risom, Chris
Robbins, Fred
Roberts, John Clllford
Roiers, Ora Earl
Rosenbaum, Max
Rutherford, John Ashley
Sanderson, Chas. Sumner
Sargent, Frederick Oscar
Sargent, George Herbert
Sawin, Lee Clinton, P. M.
Schenck, Daniel Brininger
Seamans, Carl Horace
See, Marshall Marion
Seeley, James Brown
Shepherd, Earl Russell
Smiley, Wm. Harrison
Smith, Alexander
Smith, Benjamin Harrison

fif7

ROSTER
ROSTER

548

Vernon, Walter A.
Waer, Robert
Wardman, Wm. John Aubrey
Way, Robert B., P. M.
Whitson, ,John Wesley
Wheatland, Earl Manford
Wiles, Joseph Mansfield
Wilson, Horace P.
Wise, Fred Hayes
W oglum, Russell Sage
Woodward, Ray Ralph
Wray, Cephas Huston
Wright, John E.
Wyatt, John Philip, P. M.

Smith, Warren
Smith, William Alfonzc
Souden, Oscar May
Squires, John Clayton
Stacker, John Martine
Starkey, William Forester
Stewart, James Hope, P. M.
Stone, Frederick George
Swain, Arthur William
Swaine, Charles Seymour
Todd, Joseph S.
Tomlinson, William Neeld
Triggs, George Elmer
Trueblood, Cyrus Elmer
Tyler, Guy

-177

WITHDRAWN:
Steinert, Bernard William
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Jr.
Kinsler, Charles Clement
\tussell, William Henry
Buck, John Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Barnes, Wilbert Edwin
Seaver, Fred Solon
Martin, Oscar David

CORONA LODGE, No. 324.
Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first '.I'hursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Visscher Eliot, Master,
1333 Wentworth Ave.
Dorr Gilbert Chapman, Sen. Ward.,
Edward Ludington Eliot, J. Ward.,
George Alvin Daniels, Treasurer,
Norval Gibson Felker, Secretary,
692 S. El Molino Ave.
Aberle, John
Allan, Bryson Graham
Allen, Andrew Smith
Allen, Robert Stuart

Bryson Graham Allan, Chaplain,
Leonard Oscar Bigham, S. Deac.,
Bert Stoddard, Junior Dracon,
William Leeper Blair, Marshal,
Humbert Louis Blair, Steward,
Archie Dean Orme, Steward,
George Rasmus Weaver, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Allin, John
Aylor, Thomas George
Backus, George Allen
Bagby, Warren Winslow

Batchelder, Benj, Franklin, P. M.
Batchelder, Ernest Allen
Baxter, Chas. Irwin
Baxter, Samuel Castner
Beach, Fitz E.
Beal, Michael L.
Behai, Shua Uliah
Bell, Charles Webster
Bell, Nelson William
Bergen, Guy Fisher
Bigham, Leonard 0.
Bigham, Walter Lafayette
Blankenhorn, Louis
Blair, Wm. Leeper
Bia tz, Herman
Bleecker, John James
Blick, John Charles
Blick, Joseph James
Bogart, Albert Lafayette
Bogert, William Melancthon
Boucher, William Abbott
Bowie, Hanson Rutter
Braddock, Oscar Louis
Brag.don, John Ransom
Brigham, George Franklin
Brown, Frederick Leonard
Brown, George Elmer
Brown, Howard Blackman
Brown, Ira W.
Brownson, Howard Eugene
Burnham, Frederick Russell
Butler, Maynard Balch
Byram, .Joseph Hull
Byrne, Jamel'! Edward
Cambell, James Hanford
Carr, Frank Leslie
Carrothers, Walter Roland
Carter, William Mathews
Cartzdafner, Frank LeRoy
Cary, George Peter
Case, Gideon Seward, P. M.
Catalano, Joseph Canzone
Chamberlain, Arthur Henry
Chapman, Dorr Gilbert
Chase, Helll'y Ashley

Chatfield, Harry Ives .
Cheever, Roy Russell
Clark, Edwin
Clark, George Albert
Clifton, Harry Trumbull, P. M.
Coolidge, Douglas William
Cornelius, James, P. M.
Crowell, William Chamberlain
Dagger, Tillford
Daniels, George Alvin
Davies, William Tremper
Dans, George Russell
Davis, Jesse Miller
Davis, Joseph Edward
Davis, Mayhew Whitesall
Deacon, George
Dickinson, Gardiner Williama
Dodge, Harry Kinsman
Doty, Henry Aaron
Douglas, Robert Haney
Dunham, Samuel Gaston
Durrell, Carleton Edgar
Durrell, Geo. Augustus
Dussault, Rudolph Ralph
Dyer, Heman
Eason, Robert, P. M.
Eliot, Edward Ludington
Eliot, John Visscher
Ellingwood, Elliott Lee
Elliot, Norman Hugh
Ewing, James Andrew
Farmer, Chas. Clifford
Farrand, Thomas Manchester
Farris, Edwin Lucius
Felker, Norval Gibson, P. M.
Fish, Clinton Thomas
Flintoft, Geo. Smith
Fogg, William Kelty
Folsom, Benj.
Foltz, Hudson
Frost, Charles Henry
Frost, Stephen Charles
Fuller, Raymond Fell
Furness, Joseph Clarenco
Gaylord, Albert Pat~erson

5·19

550
Gayiord, Robert Horace
Geohegan, Harry
Gianetti, Humbert Louis
Gibbs, George Albion
Gilmore, William Duncan
Gillmor, David Todd
Gillmor, Grant
Goins, Edwin John
Gordon, Theodore Granger
Grace, Frederick Albert
Green, Manly P.
Greene, Henry Mather
Griffin, Percy Geo.
Griffin, Richard Frank
Guion, Arthur
Hadley, James Luther
Hall, Fayette Joseph
Halsted, Samuel Hazard
Hamilton, Arthur Lincoln
Hamilton, Nathaniel W.
Hansen, Lorenz Peter
Hansen, Waldemar Grant
Harmon, Hiram Woodman
Harris,· Edwin Bailey
Harris, Fred Reid
Hawkins, Arthur Lon
Hawkins, John William
He:flinger, Edward Andrew
Henderson, Leroy Munson
Henricks, Chas. W.
Herlihy, David Walter
Hertel, Herman Rudolph
Hester, George Knight
Heyn, Robert Nicolas
Hill, Charles D.
Hinds, Joseph Edwin
Hobbs; Sidney Freeman
Hodge, Nathaniel
Hoge, Smith B.
Holland, Wm. H., P. M.
Holt, Herbert Charles
Honberger, Paul Sprenger
Hooper, Le Roy
Horton, George Clifford
Hubbard; Wm. Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER
Huddleston, Clayton· F.
Huff, Melvin :Byron
Huggins, Fred Trot'l'l'ood
Jackson, Alfred Conningsby
Jackson, Charles William
Jacobs, Julius Richal'.d
Johnston, Franklin Herbert
JoneR, Frer]erick Clifford
Jones, Paul Vernon
Jones, William Lloyd
Kay, Norman E.
Kelty, Elisha F. B.
Kemp, Albert Henry
Kerr, Joseph Young
Keyes, Charles Henry
Khazoyan, Haigeg Hagop
Knight, William Franklin
Knox, Roscoe C.
Kohler, Eugene Ferdinand
Lacey, Courtney
Ldwrence, William Johnston
Laws, John Elmer
Learned, Leslie Elias
Leishman, Wm. Lathrop
Leithead, William 'Wilson
Lingard, Samuel Ward
Lisk, Byron
Lockwood, Charles Dana
Long, Frank Herbert
Maccormack, William
MacCoy, Wm. Edward
MacLaughlin, Leo Garnett
Macomber, Abraham Kingsley
Makepeace, Thomas Ransome
Malaby, Zachary Taylor
:Marquardt, Jeese Claude
· Marston, Sylvanus Broadman
Mattison, Fitch Champlin E.
May, Ernest Heath, P. M.
May, Frank
.
Mccament, John Oliver
McDonald, Robert Walker
McLarn, Robert Harper
McNally, Patrick .James
McPherson, Willi:im Penton

-

'

"

Meadows, Layton Everett
Merriam, Arthur
Merriam, John Howard
Merritt, Cecil Adelbert
Merwin, Duncan Salisbury'
Metcalf, Hiram Franklin
Miller, Edward L.
Minassian, John Horhanner
Montgomery, Hugh Eglinton
Moody, Wm. Herbert
Morgan, Melvin Eugene
Morris, John Sylvanus
Mueth, Adolph Albert
Mulligan, Edward Howell
Munroe, Charles Dora
Munson, Byron
Munson, Spencer M:, P. M.
Neff, Edwin Dorland
Nelmes, Thomas Hussey
Nettleton, Ashbel Griswold
Nevin, William Harbaugh
Nevins, Joseph Nelson
Newby, Henry
N ewman, Wm. John
Nicholls, John Sprague
Nichols, Walter Edmund
Odell, Samuel Wm.
Off, Edward T.
Orban, Peter, P. M.
Orme, Archie Dean
Owen, Joseph
Paine, Romeyn Melvin
Palmer, Arthur Hopkins, P. M.
Parker, Harold A.
Parnay, Serope Y edicar 'n
Patee, Lester Gilbert
Patten, H enry Sheridan
Patton, J. Howard
Pearce, James Henry
Pearman, John Henry
Perkins, Henry Alfred
Perm:ar, David Wilson
Petrie, Connor Moyle
Pierce, William Henry
Pierce, William Jacob

551

Pitcher, Henry Burnap
Porter, Lafayette Seward
Powers, Fremont
Preston, Leslie Hansbury
Priaulx, Percival James, P. M.
Proudfoot, Frederick M.
Proudfoot, John
Pyle, Edward Jehu
Quillin, Asbury
t.
Raftery, Leon Francis
Ranney, Henry Collings
Ranney, Wm. St. John
Ransom, Wm. Foy
Rawles, Joseph Arthur
Rawls, Rufus Bi:nnett
Reed, James Ross
Reynolds, Charles Calvin
Rhodes, Chas. Edgar
Rhodes, Jeremiah Milton
Roberts, Richard Stockton
Roberts, William Humes, P. M.
Rossiter, John Gourmley
Rowland, A. Lincoln
Rowray, James Byron
Sadler, Alden Howard
Sanborn, William Elmer
Sargent, Chester Davis
Schroeder, Diedrich
Schwa cofer, E dward Blake
Schwedler, Otto
Sheldon, Lionel Allen
Sherman, Henry Bushwell
Sherry, Henry, P. M.
Sherwood, George
Shook, Otho Mortimer
Short, Albert N.
Short, Benj. Atonza
Shumway, Charles Dwight
Simpson, John Hifford
Skillen, Charles Moses
Skillen, Ralph George
Slavin, Matthew
Slavin, Matthew, Jr.
Smith, Edward Clarence
Smith, E lbert Whitney ·

552
Smith, Frederick George
Smith, William Charles
Smith, William Henry
Smith, Willis Hubbard
Snowball, MacDougall
Soale, Wilson Hamer
Spake, John Clarence
Spake, Wm. Henry
Staats, William Richardson
Stafford, John D.
Stanton, Edwin Moore
Stanton, William
Stearns, Charles Henry
Stephenson, Harris Perry
Stocks, Thomas J.
Stoddard, Bert
Storey, Joseph
Stuart, Holloway Ithamer
Sullivan, Daniel Cornelius
Swan, Frederick Howard
Taylor, Wm. Allen
Test, Lemuel Langstaff, P. M.
Thomas, Frank Newton
Thompson, Charles Santford
Thompson, Timothy
Turner, Bruce
Turner, John Fulton
Turner, Lewis Horace
Tuthill, Ralph Ford
Twombly, Fred Eugene
Twombly, Ralph Fred
Upton, Samuel Warren
Vanderhoff, Melancthon H.
VanNuys, William Nelson
Van Sickle, Garret Foster
Viney, Alvin Wallace, P. M.
Wald, August Martin

Wallace, James Temple
Wallace, Silas Ives
Walters, Joseph Joshua
Ward, Victor Leigh
Warren, Kenyon
Warren, William
Watson, Fred Earl
Weaver, Fred Joseph
Webster, Elmer Ellsworth
Webster, Joseph Carl
Weed, Oscar F., P. M.
Welsh, James Augustus, Jr.,
Wesson, George Alfred
West, W. Solon
Wheeland, Charles Grier
Wheeler, Edward James
White, Arthur Tisdale
White, George Henry
Wiles, John H.
Wilde, Frederick Hareld
Wilkie, Luther Erwin
Willett, Charles Joseph, P. M.
Williams, Thomas Arthur
Wilson, Wynn Edwin
Winters, Roy Leighton
Wood, J.'Perry
Wood, John Windell
Wood, Melvin Edgar
Wooster, Charles, P. M.
Wopschall, Carl Gus
Worley, Norman Emett
Wotkyns, Walter Livingston, P. M.
Wotkyns, Webster
Wright, Thompson Barrett
Young, William Peter
Zangraft, Henry
Zuell, William Leander
-353

WITHDRAWN:
Andrews, Harry Eugene
Armstrong, Robert
Bailey, Frank Woods

ROSTER

ROSTER

Boner, Frank Sherman
Chamberlain, Clarence Edwin
Groenendyke, Edward
Pierce, Sterling Newton

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
· Crandall, Charles Joseph

J
I

DIED:
Baxter, John Fleeger
Dodworth, Allan Roy
Cook, William Vanulstein
J<'rary, Leander Warren
Schwartz, David Barnette

CONSUELO LODGE, No. 325.
Escondido, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Joh!) A. Whetstone, Master,
L. A. Husong, Chaplain,
Escondido, Cal.
Meredith Conway, Senior Deaco11,
Erasmus M. Tarvin, Senior Warden, Edward Bevan, l11nior Deacon,
Howard B. Turrentine, Jun. Ward., William W. Carpenter, Jr., Marshal,
John C. Dickson, Treasurer,
Edgar E. Turrentine, Steward,
John N. Turrentine, Secretary;
Roy Holcomb, Steward,
Escondido, Cal.
George R. Jenkins, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Estes, Payton Wade
liarrett, Benjamin G.
Graft', Wm. E.
Hall, Frederick David
Hayes, Hiram C.
Heath, James H.
Howell, M. L.
Huffman, Robert L.
Jenkins, George R.
Judson, John N.
Kies, Byron W .
Lehner, George
Marshall, Henry
Matzen, Niels
McNeil, Lewis W.
Merriam, Gustavus F
Moon, Alonzo R.
Morris, John Knox
Nordahl, Andrew W.

Bailey, Charles Wesley
Baldridge, William Henry
Baldridge, Chas. W.
Best, . Willis Austin
Bigelow, Lebbins Isaac
Blount, C. EBurdett, Frank F.
Butler, William Nelson
Carpenter, Wm. W., Jr., P. M.
Churchill, Edward Marion, P. M.
Clark, Wm. L.
Connor, Mayrant
Conway, Meredith, P. M.
Covell, William A.
Crise, Bruce L.
Crise, David
Dickson, John Charles
Dickson, Samuel Clark, P. M.
Ealey, Walter E.

ROSTER

ROSTElt

554
Nordahl, Oscar Carl
Oaks, David T.
Oaks, Oliver
Palmeter, Chas. Sumner
Phillips, Andrew
Plowman, A. R.
Pray, Alfred Wm.
Ramey, William Luther, P. M.
Reed, Sewall A.
Risden, Elmer G.
Risden, N. S.
Sherwood, John W.
Steiner, Sigmund
Stevenson, Frank H.

Stevenson, Lloyd A.
Tarvin, Erasmus M.
Teed, Hamilton J.
Turrentine, Edgar E., P. M.
Turrentine, Howard B.
Turrentine, John Neil, P. M.
Vanasen, William H.
Whetstone, John A.
Wisdom, Pierce J.
Witt, Charles G.
Wohlford,-Alvin W.
Worth, Jehoida J.

-63

WITHDRAWN:
Van Deveer, Jacob J_,.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Crise, Harry Null
DIED:

Jereslaw, William

Hinman, Byron

NEEDLES LODGE, No. 326.
Needles, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetingg, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank Bruce Krallman, Master,
William M. Claypool, Chaplain,
Needles, Cal.
Fred W. Quirmbach, Senior Deacon,
Henry Harry NyGten, Sen. Ward., W . H. Stochley, Junior Deacon,
Lester Adrian Todd, Junior, Ward., Wilford Cubbage, Marshal,
Joseph Henry Butler, Treasurer,
C. M. Mason, Steward,
Arthur Woodward Silvers, Sec'y,
Larry Warren, Steward,
Needles, Cal. ·
Enoch M. Brown, Tyler,

Ackerly, William Keating
Ar1derson, Henry Temple
Armantage, John
Armington, J. R
Baker, Elmer N., P. M.

MEMBERS:
Baldwin, Harry Coffee
Ballenger, Dan Robert
Beath, Clarence Gilbert
Bedell, Stephen Allen
Ber.ding, Gerhard Herman

Bigler, Christian Andre-w
Bispham, William
Briggs, George Smith
Brown, Enoch Mason
Burger, Emil Rudolph
Butler, George Eugene, P. M.
Chapman, Westley Edward
Cheney, Ray:rno».d Stewart
Clark, Ray R.
Claypool, William Morgan
Cooey, Malachai Harry
Crayne, Daniel Edward
Crew, Abner Lafayette
Crothers, John Richard
Cubbage, Wilford
Currie, Thoe. Austin, Jr.
Curtin, Fred 'k A.
Cutts, Arthur Percy
Demerest, Harry J.
Dillehunt, . Wilber H.
Ellsworth, Ames D.
Ji'erguson, Neil Edward
Fluhr, Charles George
Fowler, Robert A.
Freeman, Herman
Freeman, William Francia
Fish, Eli Willis
Forbes, Albert David
Foster, Wm. Lewis
Fuller, Fred
Godshall, Lincoln D.
Hedrick, R. A.
Helbush, Abner W.
Hope, Harry F.
Huber, Herman Louis
Hull, Wm. Harold
Ichl, Benj. Irving
Jones, Harry Albert
Jurgens, Wm.
Kelley, Fred M., P. M.
Kendall, Charles Forrest
Kirk, Lon Ernest
Krallman, Frank Bryce
Mason, Spero Christy
Mathewson, Walter Earl

Mathison, Paul Otto E.
McCauley, N. T.
McElmell, Jamee A.
Miller, Charles William, Jr.
Miller, William Lewib
Mills, William Henry
Monaghan, Charles Burns
Monaghan, Francis, P. M.
Moore, Charles Edward
Morden, Thomas
Morgan, James Clark
Murphy, Daniel
Newhall, Henry Martin
Nolton, Lester Leonard
Norton, E. H.
Null, Edward Jacob
Ny Gren, Henry Harry
Patten, Wallace J.
Paulson, Jonathan O.
Pellat, Bobert Wesley
PerkitJ.s, Geo. Irvine
Phillips, Charles Walter
Pine, Bertram Reuben
Poole, Silver Arthur
Riley, Albert Bentley
Root, Leroy Vincent, P. M.
Runyon, Fred
Sanders, Chas. Higby
Santhu, George
Saunders, George W.
Schale, Samuel Clarence
Schiller, Frank Christ
Schluter, Otis William
Shelton, Wm. A.
Shepard, Charles Angel, P. M.
Siele, Carl
Silvers, Arthur Woodard
Smearingen, Augustus Thomas
Smith, James Harvey
Smith, Oliver E .
Smith, William Alpheus
Springer, James Munsen
Stearns, Albert Henry, P. M.
Steffey, Orange De Wolf
Steneman, Walter Tellman

655

ROSTER

656
Stone, Cecil
Sydnor, Alfred Wyatt
Thompson, Horace N.
Todd, Lester Adrian
Topp, William Wallace
Turk, Fred Montimer
Tuttle, Edward Marshall
Vechaw, Chris
Vick, William Robert
Wadleigh, Ro~ert P.

ROSTER

Warren, James ·L.
Warren, Larry
Weiss, W. A.
West, James Monroe
White, Charles B.
White, James Thornwell
Wild, Arthur Grant
Winton, Grover Cleveland
Yeager, Chas. J.
-ll!l

WITHDRAWN:
Caldwell, Burr Lafler
DIED:
Ahrens, Henry

LONG BEACH LODGE, No. 327.
Long Beach, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Coombs Farnham, Master,
Harold Savoy McNeil\, Sen. Deacon,
William Ray Sh~w, Senior Warden, Francis Randolph McCrea, J. Deac.,
Louis Hazelwood Smith, J. Ward., Hervey Ebenezer Shaw, Marshal,
Richard Loynes, Treasurer,
Harry Burke Riley, Steward,
Harry Beverley Maedonald, Sec'y, Reginald Boulter Skinner, Steward,
George Fredrick Hirsch, Chaplain;
Rufus Merrill Davis, Tyler.
Abbott, Arthur Marion
Adams, Lloyd Garfield
Anderson, James William
Austin, Albert Bennett
Austin, Chas. Robert
Austin, William Horace
Bailey, Edward Percy
Bailey, Henry Clay
Bailey, Samuel Monroe
Baird, Carroll
Baldwin, Walter George
Barndollar, Harry, P. M.
Barrett, Leonard Dodd
Barton, William Thomas
Bassett, Henry Willard

MEMBERS:
Beard, George
Becanon, Herchel Francis
Benson, Claud Miller
Benson, George Samuel ·
Benson, John Paul
Berry, Percy Scott
Birkle, William
Bisby, Robert Lee
Bissell, Shel ton
Bonar, Charles Abel
Boone, Harvey Elsworth
Bowers, James Ervin
Bowers, Wesley Clay
Bowman, Ivory Lowe
Brandenburg, Frank

Branson, Arthur H.
Brayton, William Lorentua
Brewer, Alvin Lee
Brown, Edwin Severance
Brown, Harry Gardner
Buckwalter, Charles E.
Butler, Stephen
Callahan, Henry Seymour
Campbell, Francis
Campbell, Marcus Herbert
Campbell, William Leslie
Carlo, Albert
Carpenter, Louis Kossuth
Carse, Elmer George
Carson, Lillard Hanson
Carver, Horace Stuart
Cherovsky, Anton
Chivers, John Stanley
Claggett, Strabo Francis
Clayton, Albert Benjamin
Clem, David
Cleveland, Edgar H.
Clewett, Chester C.
Cole, Orra Wilson
Cole, Wilson N.
Coleman, Joseph
Connett, Albert Bradwell
Cook, William Jay
Cooper, Dale Goodwin
Cornwell, John J.
Counts, John Ellis
Craig, Frank Sigel
Creeth, Ernest Ray
Cullen, John Thomas, P. M.
Culver, Harrison Wilder
Damron, Frank Bonham
Davenport, Alfred La Rue
De Meulle, Jo~eph
Dewey, Edwin Preston, P. M.
Dodsworth, Robert Metcalf
Donnell, Theophilus Crosby
Dougan, Andrew
Douglas, Bruce Edwin
Douglas, Cyrus Edwin
Dower, William

· Driskill, Jesse
Dudley, Edward Reynolds
Du Ree, Squire Franklin
Earl, David Gardner
Edmunds, Robert W.
Eno, Rufus A.
Ewen, Andrew James
Ewing, Louis Franklin
Fager, William Clarence
Farnham, John Coombs
Farrington, Geo. Ward
Fears, John Henry
Fellows, Ernest Frank
Fetterman, Isaac Leonard
Finlayson, John
Fisher, Eugene I.
Fisher, Francis Trumble
Flint, George Clifford, P. M.
Fritz, Frederick B.
Galbraith, Geo. Herbert
Galer, William
Gastnch, Joseph William
Gilbert, Christopher C.
Glassford, John William
Gollum, Frederick Walker
Goodhue, Arthur Martin
Goodwin, Byron Frank
Graham, James Duncan, P. M.
Greaves, Chester Bishop
Green, Frank Abraham
Green, Horace William
Grube, Aaron Christian
Gutzler, Alfred John
Hair, John Walter
Hammer, Samuel fll'awf'ord
Haney, Napoleon Bonaparte
Hargis, Charles Jones, P. M.
Harris, Adam Singleton
Harrison, Henry
Harthorn, Dell Henry
Harvey, Edwin Ruthven
Hateh, Ira Selden
Hatch, Philander Ellsworth
Henry, Joseph Baxter
Hess, Logan

557

558

:r.OSTER

ROSTER

Higgins, Lee
McQuigg, Frank Robertson
Hill, James Andrew Paton
Mears, Charles Franklin
Hincks, Harvey Wellman
Meldrim, John Harold
liirsch, George Fred
Michener, J ease Edward
Holden, David Newton
Miller, ,Jamc11 Alden
Holladay, Alvin Cosmo
Mohr1mstecher, George AJolf
Horn, Harvey
Moore, Eugene B.
Horne, Walter James
Moore, Harry Dawson
Morlock, Hugo
Horsch, Elias Henry
'
Huft', William F.
Munholland, John Guthrie
Jackson, Edward Hendryx
Munholland, John Henry
Jaques, Frank Hartzell
Murphy, Michael Bennett
Johnson, Leonidas Frederick, F. M. Neece, Geor1e Washington
Jones, George Gray
Neel, Melvin
Jones, Edward Palmer
Nelson, Albert
Julian, William Bailey
Nelson, Swanti Louis
Kain, George Henry
Nestle, Wm. Pollehm
Keightley, Mark Wm.
Newkirk, Francis Marion
Kimball, Rollin Freeman
,Norton, Elbert Elsworth
Kring, Ulysses Grant
Oakford, Richard Scholes
Pardee, Frank Marian
Kryzer, Arthur Durrell
Pardee, Lawrence Ray
Laird, William Franklin
Parks, Aubrey
Langnickel, Joseph Magnus
Parks, George Albert
Leaming, George Ambrose
Paschall, Henry Poynor
Long, George Washington
Pascoe, William Frederick
Long, Stephen Gano
Peacock, Rolland Robert
Looft, Arthur
Pearc11, Robert Whaley
Lopp, William Rader
Pease, Charles
Losee, Judson B.
Perce, Lewis Ansen
Loynes, Richard, F. M.
Perley, Henry Parker
Lyster, William Grafton
Pierson, George H.
Macdonald, Harry Beverly
Porteous, Arthur Leopold
MacKinnon, John William
Porterfield, Walter Lowrie
Marshall, Harry Bateham
Powell, David Morris
Martin, George
Powers, James Dickson
Martin, William Simon
Probst, John L.
Masters, Robert Emmet
Puett, Cole Cleeman
May, Joseph Jaeob
Pushee, Frederic Almon
Mayhugh, Spencer Arthur
Ratlift', Samuel GulJ•
McCain, Thomas Jefferson
Rattray, Peter
McClung, Septimus Cabiness
Rattray, Robert Allen
McCrea, Francis Randolph
Richards, Ernest F.
Mccutchan, Henry Chester
Ross, Arthur
McCutchan, Hugh Henry
Russell, Albert Chapman
McNeill, Harold Savoy

Saunders, Franklin
Schiedknecht, George
Schlesmayer, Conrad William
Scott, Henry Adison
Scott, Henry Clay
Shackleton, James
Shaw, Clark Harvey, F. M.
Shaw, Frank Edwin .
Shaw, Hervey Ebenezer, F. M.
Shaw, William Ray
Sherwood, Thomas Adie!
Shull, David Paul
Silverthorn, John Russell
Smith, Edwin W.
Smith, Harley Earl
Smith, Louis Hazelwood
Smith, Walter Clift'ord, F. M.
Snow, Albert B.
Sprague, Chas. Henry
Springer, James Bowie
Stafford, Wm. Perry Lueien
Stannard, S. Grant
Steen, George Eddy
Stephens, Timothy Alva
Stevens, William Samuel
Story, Archie Edward
Stovell, Thomas
· Strickland, Stedman Leeds
Stuart, Harry Carlos
Stubenbord, Jacob .John
Stults, William Leon
Symonds, Henry
Taylor, Charles John Edward

Allen, Charles Alfred
Harley, Robert Pollock

Heartwell, James B.
Molique, Frank Joseph

Terry, Morris
Thomas, Francis Clare
Tucker, William A.
Twombly, James C.
Twombly, James Richard
Underwood, Stephen Homer
Vanderburg, Robert Benton
Varney, William Madi.lion
Vickers, Joseph Henry
Wade, Charles' Howell
Waite, Earl Sherman
Waldron, Thoma11 Henry
Walker, Allen Cyrille
Walker, Andrew Alex.
Walters, Guy Oakley
Wark, Wm. Strong
Watson, Matt Paul
Weinberg, Iaaac
Weise, Charle1 Arthur
Whealton, Loui11 N.
White, Walter C.
Whitehead, Earle MeL.
Whitaker, Forrest Marion
Whitney, Lincoln
Wilkins, Winston Wheatley
Wilson, George Hay
Wil11on, Harry Milton
Wilson, William Harrison
Wiseman, William Edwin
Wieae, Guss
Wolford, John Adolf
Wright, Robert Allen
Ziegler, Harry B.

WITHDRAWN:
Knight, Frederick A.
Williams, Hugh H.
DIED:
Morris, John Miles
Welsh, William

-278

560

ROSTER

REDONDO LODGE, No. 328.
Redondo, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
. OFFICERS:

Louis Browlow Heath, Master,
Denton John Pitts, Chaplain,
Redondo Beach, Cal.
Ferdinand Fred'k M. Hoffmann, S. D.
Samuel Goodwin Lindsley, S. Ward.,Roy W. Culver, Junior Deacon,
John Abraham Seargeant, J. Ward., George Love, Steward,
Peter Brown, Treasurer,
Walter B. Burt, Steward,
Augustus M. Harter, Secretary,
Mart.in Van Buren Fisher, Tyler.
Redondo Beach, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abell, James Nelson
Forbes, James E.
Anderson, George Holmes, P. M.
Fritz, John Herman
Funk, George Spalatin
Anderson, William Austin, P. M.
Barbee, Wm. Mathew
Fnrlong, Barre Augustus, P. M.
Galentine, Charles Corrington
Barnes, Frederick Albert
Gillespie, Joseph C., P. M.
Bates, Harry Wood
Goodlin, Arthur James
Bluett, James
Grasse!, Charles William, P. M.
Brown, Peter
Griffin, Cecil Leland
Burt, Walter B.
Hansen, Alff Scharff
Callaway, Fred
Harter, Augustus Medores, P . M.
Carre, Oharles Kehoe
Hatton, Frank
Cate, George
Heath, Ernest Clark, P . M.
Chrisman, James M.
Cleghorn, William Jackson, P. M. Heath, Louis Hartman
Heath, Roy Watson
Coleman, Calvin Sawyer
Hinman, Orrin Clark
Coleman, Walter Joel
Hoffmann, Ferranan Fred :M.
Coleman, Howard Cleveland
Hontz, Levi Burton
Cox, Henry Ernest
Howard, Emory Lamilton
Craig, George M.
Hull, Frederick Homer
Culp, Clare
Keppel, John
Culver, Roy W.
Klein, Alfred Henry
Dry, Wilson Joseph
Kuentz, Isadore Charles
Dyer, Leslie La Monde
Leatherman, Geo.
Eagle, John Emil
Leftwich, Jerry Tiffin
Eneix, David Sylvester
Leuzinger, Adolph
Feder, Henry Charles
Lichty, Bert Christian
Fisher, Martin Van Buren
Lindsay, Gaun Jackson
Flint, Ariel Stanley
Lindsley, Samuel Goodwin
Flint, John William, P. M.

BOSTER
Longacre, Joseph Ransom
Maddex, William Thomas
Mang!lld, Charles Clarence
Marth, Joseph Harvey
McMillan, Edwin Harbaugh
McNally, Henry Jacob
Meacham, Harry Douglas
More, Melvin John
Moyon, Alphonse
Paine, John William
Paine, William Lee
Parker, David Jonathan
Parker, Perl Scott
Perry, Frank Lorin
Pitts, Denton John, P. M.
Potter, Joseph Benjamin
Prigmore, Daniel c.
Protsch, Alex. Frederick
Ptomey, Wm. Henry Isaac
Raby, Henry George
Rice, Calvin
Rice, Charles Albert
Schaur, Herbert Martin
Schlegel, John
Seargeant, John Abraham
Seargeant, John Edward, P. M.

Shaw, Edwin
Shultz, James
Smith, George Vinson
Smith, Richard Dallum, P. M.
Smith, William
Spaulding, Elbert Augustus
Sprinkle, Wm. Foote, P. M.
Stark, James Guy, P. M.
Stark, John Wright
Steel, Arthur Bridge, P. M.
Stoehr, William Samuel
Taylor, Hurley Merrill
Twain, Joseph
Upton, William Henry
Venable, Charles Earle
Venable, Pierce Samuel, P. M.
Venable, Thomas Eldriche
Weaver, John Lenard
Weaver, Wallace Herman
Wells, Lucian Fayette
Whiteside, Earl Bingley
Whiteside, Thomas Bingley
Whiteside, Ross Saxman
Whomee, Arthur
Woolley, William Willard

-109

WITHDRAWN:
Brooks, Alton Matthew
Davis, Albert G.

Leatherman, Eugene
Russell, John Tecumseh
Venable, James William, Jr.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Means, Charles Vernon
Scott, Raymond ChP.ster
DIED:
George, James Harvey

36

561

Yon Rockabandt, Louis

662

ROSTER

ROSTER
Laeay, Germain Paul
Lacour, Frederic
Lacour, George Solier
Longo, Igniaeio
Louazon, Joseph
Loustalot, Pierre
Loustan, Jean Berdlin
Maehris, Alfred Paul
Maehris, George Louis
Malais, Clovis
Martinoni, James F.
Matheron, Ernest
Mirassou-Castig, Jean F.
Mazet, Casimir
Mazet, Jean
Molle, Antoine Baptist
N esa, Bernard
Pagliano, Guisseppe
Pala, Andrea Dominico
Pedy, Louis
Pioda, Andrea
Piuma, Guisseppe
Prescott, Frank C., P. M.

VALLEE de FRANCE LODGE, No. 329.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Wednesday in eaeh month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

James F. Martinoni, MQstcr,
827 S. Figueroa Street.
Emile Christopher, Senior Warden,
Leon Eyraud, Junior Warden,
Louis Sentous, Treasurer,
Frederic Charbonnier, Secretary,
423 E. Sth Street.

Adoue, Jean
Alliot, Hector, P. M.
Antognelli, Darius
Appfel, Alex. Louie
Barthe, Jean Bertrand, P. M.
Bernard, Etienne
Beyeye, Pierre
Boggio, Giovani
Boggie, Dominico
Boisserane, Mareelin
Bouelle, Frank Auguste, P. M.
Bresson, Francois
Caldaree, Frank
Caldares, Joseph
Campanella, Vietor
Casenave, Jean Baptist
Castera, Jean
Cazeaux, Arnaud, P. M.
Charbonnier, Frederic
Chevalley, Alfred
Chiarodit, George
Christophe, Emile
Christopher, Louis Joseph
Colon, Jean Marie
Conradi, Simon
Curtet, Leon, P. M.
Davin, Emile

Marcelin Eyraud, Chaplain,
Francois Theodor Selkinghaus, S. D.,
Martin Salthu, Junior Deacon,
Frank C. Prescott, Marshal,
Charles Walder, Steward,
Frank C. Zucca, Steward,
Eugene Van Calbergh, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Demateis, Carlo
Deutsch, Charles, P. M.
Doree, Jean
Dupuy, Joseph Piere M.
Eseallier, Leon
Eyraud, Albert
Eyraud, Alphonse
Eyraud, Joseph
Eyraud, Leon
Eyraud, Marcelin, P. M.
Eyraud, Marin Antoine
Fava, Arthur
Fazzi, Oreste
Fleur, Ernest
Gabard, Louis
Garau, Aurelio
Gai, Giovani
Gianetti, Guisseppc
Godissart, Joseph
Gravet, Adolph Louis
Grob, Walter ·
Hauret, Thomas Louis
Hiriart, Pascal
Humbert, Etienne Edward
Issoglio, Louis Paul
Iteaina, Graeian
Labourdette, Pierre

5G3

Presehaeq, Prosper
Puiseegur, Francois Raymond
Rieeardo, Constantine
Salthu, Dominique
Salthu, Jean
Salthu, Martin
Save, Antony
Selkinghaus, Francois Theo.
Sentous, Camille
Sentous, Louis, Jr., P . M.
Sormano, Guiseeppe
Sormano, Minotti
Tawzi, JOse Maria
Tisnerat, Edouard
Torre, Stefano
Turon, Leon
Van Calbergh, Eugene
Vial, Seipion
Vincent, Clement
Viole, Jules, P . M.
Walder, Charles
Zueea, Frank C.

-99
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dortignae, Jean
Laporte, Henry
'DIED:
Jaureguy, Pierre

KILAUEA LODGE, No. 330.

•

'

Hilo, Hawaiian i'erritory.
Stated Meetings, Saturday nearest the Full Moon,
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Ainslie, Archibald
Alden, Chas. Wilber
Anderson, Frank Moir

•

Anderson, Henry Christian
Arnswaldt, Anton Walter von
Aungst, Luther Stine

564

ROSTER
ROSTER

Austin, Ernest Harper
Fraser, John
Baker, John Thomas
Gere, Giles Henry
Balding, Ralph Evans
Gibb, Arthur Charles
Balding, William Thomas, P. M.
Goodale, William Whitmore
Beckley, Henry Pitman
Goodhue, Edward Solen
Bell, William John
Gosling, Robert
Grace, John Johnston
Black, Alexander
Blake, George
Green, Charles David
Guard, Thomae
Bole, John Hodge
Bowman, Donald Scott
Haeniech, Fredrich August
Brien, William
Hagens, Heinrich
Breyman, Fred
Hapai, George Washington A.
Hayeelden, Walter H.
Brown, Samuel Ritty
Bryant, Howard Rattenbury
Heintze, Carl Feodor
Burnett, William Mowatt
Henderson, Alfred Rannie
Henderson, Jamee
Butchart, David Greig
Holmes, Everett Nathan
Cameron, James Murray
Campbell, Wm. Henry Colen, P. M. Horner, Albert
Howland, John Hastings
Campsie, James
Carwithen, Rodger
Humburg, Johann August
Hutchison, Robert Allan
Castendyk, Christian H.
Irwin, Archer
Cole, Wm. Fawcett
Jamieson, George
Conradt, Frederick Richard
J ohneon, Peter
Conradt, Julius Wilhelm
Kauhane, Samuel
Cosgrove, James
Kelsey, Evelyn Henry
Craelius, John Frederick
Kennedy, Charles Reid
Craik, John
Kennedy, John Adam Clark
Cullen, William
Kennedy, John Downie
Curtis, Albert Guild
Kennedy, Ronald Clark
Curts, John Paul
Keolanui, William Manaole
Dawson, George
King, Charles Edward
Deyo, Eugene Nelson
Linder, Axel Ferdinand
Dickson, Charles
Lindsay, Adam
Duvel, August Ludwig W.
Lindsay, Andrew Bonnar
Elliot, Harold Beatty
Lindsay, Robert Mealmaker
Engalls, Hane
Lougher, Robert
Fairer, Charles Henry, P. M.
Fincke, Heinrich Wilhelm
Ludloff, Hermann William, P. M.
Lycurgus, Demosthenes N.
Fitzgerald, John
Fitzsimmons, Vincent Matthew R. Lyman, Levi Chamberlain
M:aage, Frederick William
Forbes, David McHattie
Maby, John Henry
Forbes, Robert
Mackenzie, Daibhidh
Forrest, Robert Thomas
Mackenzie, . Geo.
Fraser, Alexander
Macpherson, John
Fraser, Francie Robert Hill

...

Maguire, John A very
Mahone, Douglas Francis
Maxfield, Daniel Edwin
McDougall, William Paul
McKay, William, P. M.
McLean, Walter Scott
McNicoll, James
McQuaid, William Matthew
Medcalf, Frank Arthur, P. M.
Meinecke, Joseph
Moir, Jehn Troup, P. M.
Morehead, Harry Hamilton
Moses, Edward Harold
Moses Ernest
Moses, Robert Todd
Muir, James Marriner
Napier, John
Napier, John, Jr.
Nichols, Ezra Francie
Overend, Henry Sheridan
Paetow, Frank Christian
Page, Atwood Giffen
Patten, Harold Vaughan
Pomeroy, Merret Curtis
Pritchard, J oeej>h
Rickard, John Smith
Robertson, Arthur
Rolph, Samuel Smith
Ross, John Munro
Ruddle, Albert
Sadler, Robert Charles

Schoen, Irving Baruch
Schaafsma, Jan
Schoening, Walter Henry
Sexton, Leo Lloyd
Souza, Florentin
Spencer, Samuel Mahuka
Stobie, Charles Alexander
Stow, Charles Lethbridge
Todd, Ed ward
Valentine, Alex.
Vannatta, William
Vannatta, Wm. Cole
Vicars, George Henry, P. M.
Wagener, Frederich Wilhelm
Wall, Allen Serounry
Walberg, John Daniel
Weatherbee, Charles
Webster, James
Weight, Edward Joseph
Weight, William
White, John K err
White, Thomas Corbert
Willfong, Nathan Crosby
Williams, George Herbert , P. M.
Wilson, George
Wise, William Seaburn
Woods, James Frank
Woods, Palmer Parker
Woode, Samuel Parker
Wright , Charles Edward
Yeaman, James Ferguson
-158

WITHDRAWN:
Ridgway, Thomas Caldwell
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Andrews, Wentworth Kinney
Baldwin, Erdman Dwight

Gerlach, Henry August

l

565

DIED:
Le Blond, Charles McGinley

566

ROSTER

PACIFIC GROVE LODGE, No. 331.
Pacific Grove, Monterey County.

ROSTER

5~7

SAN PEDRO LODGE, No. 332.
San Pedro, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thur~day in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Bontadelli, William
Lawrey, Francis Edward
Brink, William Otho
Leary, Daniel Joseph, P. M.
Lee, Abraham
Brown, Charles Fredrick
Brua, Elmer George
Lewis, Edward Branham
Melin, Kristian
Buck, Frank La Vern
Buffum, Eldridge Clayton
Moore, William Thomas
Burwell, Leslie Mouthrop
Newlon, William Wirt
Patrick, Harry Lee
Campbell, Samuel H.
Paul, John Knox
Chivers, Harry
Pfafflin, Wm. Henry
Chivers, Richard, P. M.
Peterson, John August
Colvin, Robert
Proctor, John, P. M.
Cook, William Charles, P. M.
Reynolds, Fred Irvine
Dangerfield, Charles Lucius
Riehardson, Fred Orland
Eardley, Bedson Alma
Robley, Frank Gerrard
Ehmann, George Herbert
Ellis, Frank Wilson
Roberts, Charles Egbert
Rockwood, Alfred Loveday
Fifield, Daniel Black, P. M.
Fitzsimmons, Abram Miller
Scarlett, Samuel Van
Stalter, John
Fitzsimmons, George Lyman
Fitzsimmons, Robert Miller, P. M. Steiner, Adam Jackson
Freeman, Daniel
Sutton, William, P. M.
Swanson, Oscar
Gardner, Joseph Marshall
Harper, Hind, Jr.
Tenney, Charles Whitney
Hart, Charles Edwin
Tombs, Chester Belton
Hine, Frank Harrison
Trimmer, Oliver Smith, P. M.
Howard, Fred Dudley
Tuck, Charles Edward
Ingham, George Francis
Tuttle, Charles Kirkham, P. M.
Ingram, George Alexander
Tuttle, Floyd Lorrell
James, Richard L.
Van Horn, Charles Wesley
Wright, John Amos
Johnston, Charles Kingsley, P. M.
Wyeth, Frank Joe
Johnston, Edwin Simpson
Jorgenson, Henry Garfield
Yates, James Jackson
Kohler, Geo. Mathias
-65

OFFICERS:
Edmund Percival Ingmire, Master, George Thereon Voorhies, Chaplain,
. Robert Irwin, Senior Deacon,
San Pedro, Cal.
Charles Earl Outcalt, Sen. Ward., Ernest Francis Brouse, Jim. Deac.,
Harry George Weaver, Jun. Ward., Harold Adelbert McDonald, Marshal,
William Munton, Steward,
Edwin Butler Moores, Treasurer,
Francis McLean, Steward,
William Davis, Secretary,
Joseph Milton Weddle, Tyler.
San Pedro, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Croxall, Frederick Joseph
Dakin, William Stevens
Davenport, Walter Lewis
Davis, David P.
Davis, William
Doolittle, Edward Whitney
Drynan, Alexander
Duncan, William Archibald
Duncan, William Burnett, P. M.
Eggleston, Fred Eugene
Eliason, John August
Fawcett, Thomas H.
Foldat, John
Frazer, Henry Jefferson
Gerry, William Arthur
Gillespie, Joe White
Graves, Stephen Douglas
Gray, John, P. M.
Greely, William Charles
Gridley, Frederick Harland
Griffiti, John
Griffith, John
Greenfield, Wm. Edwin
Goldsworthy, John James, P. M.
Goodwin, Andrew Peter
Gwaltney, John Sandford
Gwaltney, Sylvester
Raisch, John Jacob
Hamilton, Joseph Smithe

Aarup, Emil
Abbott, Edwin Stewart
Abel, William H.
Ahlin, Karl Albert
Allan, Howard Clinton
Allison, Frederick William
Anderson, Johan Alfred
Asmussen, Marcus Frederick
Augustine, Leo Stanley
Back, Mathias Christenson
Baker, Charles Joseph
Baly, Henry
Bell, Gilbert Clyde
Bellman, Frank Clyde
Benjamin, Thomas Clay
Benjamin, William Brooks
Blausey, Franklin Edward, P. M.
Bleiseth, Max
Bloecher, Wm. Fred 'k
Brand, Robert Lee
Brose, John Ambrose Octovius
Brunn, Christian
Buckley, John Wilkinson
Chillson, Lorri11zo Dow
Christensen, Wm. Wester
Chillcott, John
Clair, John Edward
Clough, George Fletcher
Connelly, Michael James

568

ROSTER

Hamilton, Kenneth Chapin
Hansen, Carl A. S. R.
Hansen, Henry Benjamin
Hanson, Christian
Hart, Etlwin George
Heckman, Fred C.
Hill, William Cornelius, P. M.
Hogue, Joseph Morse
Horn, Marion Van
Hyatt, William Harvey
Ibach, Uhas. W.i lmer
Ingmire, Edmund Percival
Irwin, Robert
Johnson, Charles W.
Johnson, Gust Ferdinand
Johnson, Johan Edward
Johnson, John Henry
Kallenburg, Ernest Walfred
Kane, Alexander
Karr, Frank
Kilf, Frank Oscar
Kittleson, Jacob
Kling, George Stephen, P. M.
Klose, Chas. Geo.
Knight, Charles Chester
Krohn, Peter George
Lane, Henry Stanton, P. M.
Langkilde, Sage Andreas
Larsen, Peter Adolph
Lawyer, Ila Calvin, P. M.
Learned, Samuel Maurice
Lemon, Ole James
Levy, Louis
Levy, Philip
Lippman, Bernard Bear
Lippman, Lazard Harold
Logan, John Edward
Long, Harper Mervin
Lurman, George Henry Frederick
Martin, John Isaac
Mather, Rolf Harold A.
McLean, Francis
Miller, Charles Laird
Miller, Ernest Albert, P. M.
Miller, Joseph Charles

Mills, William Gortlan
Mitchell, Ray
Moores, Edwin Butler
Mountain, John Robert
Munton, William
Myel'I!, Bernard
Nelson, Vietor
Nielsen, Ole
Nielsen, Paul
Oreutt, Harley Andrew
Orsland, Oscar Christensen
Outcalt, Charles Earl
Oster, Gilbert H.
Oster, Levi Harvey
Owens, John Carleton
Pearce, Ira
Pearce, Peter
Peterson, Carl
Peter.s on, Lawrence
Pliillips, John Andrew
Pitman, John Spence
Quinn, Richard
Robinson, Charles Guy
Rund, Mauritz Olsen
Sargent, Charles Albert
Schell, Lafayette Cornelius
Schroeder, Frederick William
Schwartz, Moritz
Scott, Raymond Addie
Seileman, Charles Thedor
Sjogren, Albin
Smitherman, John Thomas
Spencer, William
Stangeland, Svend
Stetson, Newell Bailey
Stewart, George
Stremmel, Harry
Strom, Fred Nestor
Supelveda, Albert George
Svenson, August Wilhelm
Svenson, Charles John
Thompson, Archie
Thornton, Daniel Cornelius, P. M.
Tornstrom, Chas. Arthur
Tueoo, Bernard

ROSTER
Tutt, Edward Stanley
Van Voorliies, George
Walton, Joseph Wilson
Waugh, Albert Ray
Weaver, Harry George
Weddle, Herbert Timms
Weddle, Joseph Milton
Wehrman, John
Fobes, Royal A.

569

Weir, James
Weir, William Alonzo
Westerdale, Gus
Wickersham, William Howard
Wilson, Robert
Young, Edward Everet.t, P. M.
Zaddart, David Ernest J.
-163
WITHDRAWN:
Pratt, LeRoy Elijah

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Birkholm, Frederick Sophus
Riggs, Murray Hez
Spadeholtz, Lester Bates
DIED:
Scholler, Edwin T.

ALTA LODGE, No. 333.
Bridgeport, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Joshua West Towle, Master,
Elmer Augustus Kinney, Sen. Deac.,
Bridgeport, Cal.
John Merrick Sawyer, Jun. Deacon.
Hiram Barnes Patterson, Sen. Ward., William James Cargill, Tyler.

..............................................,Jun. Ward.,
George Delury, Treasurer,
Alexander F. Scott, Secretary,
Bridgeport, Cal.
Barnes, Baxter Denis
Batjer, Frank Wilhelm Robe~
Bernard, Herbert James
Brandon, Edward Leroy, P. M.
Cargill, William James
Cook, Harry Sawyers
Creaser, John Alexandel'.
Day, Charles Eugene
Delury, George

MEMBERS:
Elliott, Leslie Edwin, P. M.
Hunewill, Stanley Hyde
Kinney, Elmer Augustas
Kinney, George Leonard
Kirkwood, Charles Melvill
Kirkwood, Emery Edgar, P. M.
Kirkwood, George Augustus
Laws, Arthur Herbert
Murphey, John Douglass, P. M.

ROSTER

570

Montrose, IIarold Albert
McEwen, Duncan
Patterson, Hiram Bames, P. M.
Patterson, Rezin Grant
Rickey, Charles William
Sawyer, John Merrick
Sawyer, Robert William
Schreck, Herman Leonard, P. M.
Scott, Alexander Franklin

ROSTER

Simmons, Benjamin Lewis
Smith, William Henry
Stroud, James
Taylor, Charles Henry
Towle, Joshua West, P. M.
Travis, Abner Andrew
Waltze, Alton Denwood
Wedertz, Charles Edward

Dudderar, George Washington, P. M. LeE:brick, Karl C.
Eason, Reeves
Leonhardt, Max
Elliott, Chester Merton
Linberg, Charles
Elliott, James Rufus
Lougheed, Herbert Edgar
English, Van Ormun
Matthews, James Lewis, P. M .
Evans, John Sidney
McCarthy, Malcolm John
Feist, Andrew Wm.
Menefee, Charles
Fields, Joseph Durand
Menefee, Clarence Wheeler
Fletcher, Alfred
Merwin, Ray Stanton
Frazier, Frank Orlando
Merwin, Wells Clayton
Gerhart, George W.
Morgan, Jesse Josiah
Given, ·B ryce Morrow
Murphy, Lemuel A.
Goodell, Joseph Charles
Nash, Chas. M.
Nash, Percy Louis, P. M.
Graham, George
Graham, Levi D.
Nash, William Wallace
Greenlaw, Ernest Ellwood
Nigg, Alois, P. M .
Greenlaw, Isaac
Nilson, Gustave
Griffiths, Chas. David
Norton, Hugh Russell
Griffiths, Charles Edwin
Ohaver, John Franklin
Olmstead, Zenas Perry
Griswold, Eugene I.
Griswold, Thomas Francis, P. M.
Peters, Joseph Arnold
Plant, Francis Benjamin
Griswold, William Merton
Pollard, Richard Caswell
Haley, Jacob Louis
Harris, Howard Lewis
Poole, Alfred Allerton
Reed, Wallace Allison
Harris, John
R~ed, James Denny, P. M.
Hart, Geo. K.
Hassheider, Chas. Fred
Reed, Thomas Black
Hazzard, George Alfred
Reynolds, George Jerome
Henry, Wm. Edgar
Rice, Elmer Vehslage
Richer, Charles Anthony
Henry, Wilmot Clark
Hoogendyk, William
Roberts, Harry Melville
Robinson, David Hermione
Hopper, Raymond
Hotchkiss, Andrew
Rooks, Andrew J ., Sr.
Huff, David Eyman
Rush, Bert
Hulee, Clarence Lester
Sanborn, John Abraham
Hurst, Albert E.
Sawyer, Wm. S.
Hurst, Chas. J.
Schumacher, K~rl
Jackson, Paul
Scofield, George B., P. M.
Johnson, Charles F.
Shorey, Harry George
Johnson, Frank Charles
Shouse, Geo. Owen
Kerckhoff, Anton Phillip
Simpson, Ralph Oliver
King, Charles Bascom
Sprotte, Ernest August
Kingery, Robert Lee
Stanton, John Minter
Kline, John William
Stokes, Frank, Jr.
Lavayea, William H enry
Sutherland, Russell Forbes

-35
DIED:

Murphey, Edward Alanson

COVINA LODGE, No. 334.
Covina, Los Angeles County,
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Wells Clayton Merwin, Master,
Alfred Fletcher, Chaplain,
Covina, Cal.
Charles David Griffiths, Sen. Deac.,
Seymour Locke Watts, Sen. Ward., Frederick Priestly Wilson, !. Deac.,
Malcolm John McCarthy, Jun. Ward., Solomtm Harris White, Marshal,
Thomas Francis Griswold, Treas.,
Albert Reuben Bryan, Steward,
Bryce Morrow Given, Secretary,
Charles Fred Hassheider, Steward,
Covina, Cal.
John Harris, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Chapman, Frank M .
Chew, Randall Thornton, Jr.
Clark, Henry Decker
Clark, William
Collins, Westwood Hugh
Colt, Arel Elias
Coltrin, Amador Francis, P. M.
Coltrin, Charles Clinton
Coltrin, Marion Chester
Coltrin, Raymond Earl
Coman, Wm. Marion
Coolman, John Henry
Cooper, Ellsworth Arthur
Dudderar, Franklin Edgar, P. M.
Dudderar, George Otis, P. M.

Alexander, James Simpson
Anderson, Alex. Wilson
Atwood, George Nichols, P. M.
Baughman, Obadiah Meeker
Bennison, John Thomas
Blanchard, Charles Edward
Bowman, Robert Marion
Bristow, Charles E.
Brow, Joseph Fletcher, P. M.
Brow, William Charles Henry
Brunjes, Jacob, P. M.
Brunjes, John Charles H.
Bryan, Albert Reuben
Buller, Charles Osborne
Cass, Hugh

•

571

572

ROSTER

ROSTER

Thorpe, Benjamin French
Tredway, Charles Edwin
Tripp, Henry Spencer
Turner, Edward Deodatus
Turner, Joseph E.
Van Auken; Erastus W.
Vincent, Bert
Walker, · Robert S., Jr.
Wanty, Charles Camille
Warren, William Mark
Watson, Henry

Fairly, Guy Ernest

Watts, Seymour L.
Webb, Benjamin S.
Wedgwood, Charles Herbert
Welch, Robert Allen
Wellington, Arthur Lee
Wells, Hugh Neal
White, Solomon Harris·
Wilson, Fred 'k Priestly"
Wilson, John Newton
Wright, Frank Harvey
Wyeth, Wm. E verett

Bair, Herbert Stanley
Baker, Robert Samuel
Barham, Albert Dudley
Barham, Frank Forrest
Barman, Frederick Ferdinand
Barrett, Simeon ~lphonso
Bartels, Bernard William
Bartholomew, Charles August
Baruch, Milton
Baruh, Joseph
Bastheim, Edmund
Bayless, Herman Gordon
Beekler, John G.
Behrend, Salm
Benjamin, Herman
Berge, Carl Theo. Emil
Berman, Wm.
Bernheim, Abraham
Bern11tein, Arthur
Besselman, Charlie Fred
Besselman, Fred L.
Black, Allan W.
Black, George Nathan, P. M.
Black, Julius Richard
Blakely, William Thornton
Bland, Gus Stanley
Blumenthal, Harold Aaron
Blumenthal, Stanley Myers
Bock, Charles
Boswell, Albert Baldv
Britt, Eugene Waddell
Brocksieper, Clarence Edward
Brown, Henry Stephen, P. M.
Brown, Max
Brown, Roy Lafayette
Brownstein, Aleck
Brownstein, Daniel Jacob, P. M.
Buell, Samuel Washington
Burton, Sylvester E.
Carl, Irving L.
Cave, Daniel, P. M.
Chamberlain, Wm. Edwin, P. M.
Chandler, Logan Bertram
Chase, William Elmer
Cheshire, Charles Albert

-142

WITHDRAWN:
Moffett, James Douglass
DIED:
Pelton, :!!"'rank Edward

WEST GATE LODGE, No. 335.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

Alfred Theodore Kingsbaker, Master, Louis Ferdinan•i Wanka, Chaplain,
1275 E. Sixth Street.
Milton Joseph Lesser, Senior Deacon."
Dell Arthur Schweitzer, Sen. Ward., Arthur Edward Mansbach, J. Deac.,
Albert Henry La Casse, J. Ward., Harry Alexander Davis, Marshal,
Emil Firth, Treasurer,
William Daniel Stewart, Steward,
August Wackerbarth, Secretary,
Irwin Dana Nokes, Steward,
956 Court Circle.
Edward H . Miller (of Los Angt>les
No. 42), T yler.
Abrahamson, Nils Severinus
Adams, Alfred Eben, P. M.
Adler, Melville Charles
Altman, Harry William
Alven, Richard William
Ancker, Albert
Archibald, Herbert Owen

MEMBERS:
Arons, Morris, P. M.
Atkinson, Harry Ross
Backer, Henry Frank
Baer, Henry Simon
Baer, Oscar Isaac
Bagby, Edwin Hanson
Bailie, William Nassau

..

573

Church, Samuel Barber
Cline, William
Cohen, Louis
Cohen, Susman
Cohn, Albert
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Isidor
Cohn, Isidor N.
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Morris
Cole, Louis Maurice
Qraig, William Talton
Cronshaw, John Henry
Darby, William T.
Davis, Harry Alexander
Dobbins, Irvin Waterman
Doull, Albert Prince
Drake, Albert Garfield
Dunkel, Otto
Edwards, Frank Elmer
Ehrlich, Morris
Eisner, Isidor
Evans, Charles Edward
Evans, David Meridith
Everhardy, Matthew William
Fallas, Fred La Pere
Feintuch, Abram
Fernboltz, Fred 'k William
Firth, Emil
Fishburn, John Eugene
Finkenstein, Maurie Josephus
Florentin, Florentine
Francis, John Haywood
Frank, Herman Washington
Frankel, Adolph
Frankel, Cecil
Frankenstein, Abraham Frankens
Gainsley, George Christian
Gerecht, Emmanuel F.
Getz, John
Gibson, Robert Cary
Glafke, Charles
Glass, Herman Theobald
Godfrey, Arthur Molbone
Gold, Louis

fi74

Goldberg, Harry Samuel
Goldsmith, George
Goldsmith, Gerson
Goldsmith, Joseph
Goldwater, Abraham J.
Goldwater, Lemuel
Gottschalk, William M.
Grant, John Edward
Green, Robert
Greenewald, Aaron Ben
Gumpert, Paul
Haines, Charles Johnson
Hamburger, David Asher
Hamburger, Moses Asher
Hammer, Abe
Harding, George Winans
Hardman, James Manford
Harper, Arthur Cyprian
Harris, Howard Jacob
Harris, Morris
Hartnack, Albert Charles
Harwood, Benjamin
Hasenburg, Fredreick E.
Hauser, Edward Charles
Hauser, Herman Julius
Haynes, John Randolph
Hecht, Sigmund, P. M.
Heiman, Jacob
Hellman, Maurice Samuel
Henry, Edward George
Herrington, Ira
Heymann, Sam
Hilf, Samuel
Higginbotham, Samuel H.
Hill, Thomas Lincoln
Hirsh, Milton Adolph
Hoft'man, Harry Michael
Hookstratten, Edward Gregory
Hudson, Charles Henry
Hunsaker, William Jefferson
Hutchison, William McGuffie
Hyman, Morice
Jackson, Harold Frederick D.
Jacobs, Jay Berthold, P. M.
Jacobs, Paul

ROSTER
Jacoby, Abraham
Jacoby, Juliu~
J annard, Oscar
Jones, William Westbrook
Joyce, William Henry
Kahn, Frank G.
Kahn, John
Kalchheim, Elei&.s
Kauffman, Jules
Kaufman, Philip
Kazinsky, Joseph Sim
Keene, David Herman
Kellogg, Charles Giles
Kern, Charles
Kingsbaker, Alfred Theo.
Kingsbaker, Leonard Theodore
Kirkpatrick, Campbell Berry
Kirschner, Samuel
Kitchen, John Franklin
K!atscher, Joseph
Klatscher, Wm.
Klein, Arthur Menyhart
Klein, Philip
Klein, Sam
Klingenstein, Isaac
Korn, Jake
Krafft, Justus, P. M.
Krassow, Carl Axel von
Kujawsky, Jacob
Kurtz, Carl
La Casse, Albert Henry
Lacroix, William F. C. L.
Laietsky, Benjamin
Lamb, Hamilton Gordon
Lang, Augustus
La Niece, Edwin
La Strong, Frank
Laventhal, Isidor Edward
Lazard, Edmund Myer
Leavitt, Frederick Clinton
Lerner, Samuel Alex.
Lesser, Milton Joseph
Levi, Herman
Levin, Joseph
Levin, Zernach

ROSTER
Levy, Alfred
Levy, Barnett Louis
Levy, Charles
Levy, Isaac Oury
Levy, Leo Lewis
Levy, Louis
Levy, Samuel Garland
Levy, Samuel Marion
Lichtenberger, Herman Carl
Lissner, Meyer
Llewellyn, David Edgar
Llewellyn, John
Llewellyn, Reese
Loeb, Joseph Philip, P. M.
Loewenthal, Henry
Louis, Henry Washington, P. M.
Lubin, William
Lustig, Jacob Stern
Lyon, Henry Herbert
Lyons, Harry
Maier, Bernhard
Maier, Leopold
Malinow, Nathan
Mallory, Llewellyn Alvord
Maimed, Abraham T.
Mansbach, Arthur Edward
Mansbach, Edward
Marks, Joshua Harry
Marks, Monroe Pierce
Markwalder, Louis
Marshutz, Siegfried G.
Marx, David
Maxson, Herbert Elmer
Mayer, Leo.
McArthur, Peter Robb
McCord, Arthur William
McCourt, Robert Lee
McCoy, George Washington
McKay, Walter Warni:ir
McKee, Harry Leo
McMillan, Robert Wilson
Mendelsohn, Edward
Mepham, Charles Henry
Merigold, Harry Patterson
Merigold, Robert Lee

Mertes, George Adams
Meyberg, Manfred
Meyberg, Moritz
Meyer, Edgar Ulmnn
Meyerstein, Jacob
Miller, David
Miller, Frank
Miller, Herbert Reilley
Miller, Isaac Max
Miller, Max Abraham
Mitchell, Arthur J.
Mitchell, Frederick William
Mitchell, Robert
Mole, Harry Porter
Morgan, Cosmo William Edward
Morris, Julius Samuel
Morrison, William Edward D.
Murphey, Joseph Lanes
Myers, John Henry Wilbert
Naab, Jay Thomas
Neisser, Otto
Newbauer, Sanford Robert
Newman, Harry Charles
Newmark, Marco Ross
Newmark, Mau~ice Harris
Newmark, Philip A.
Newmark, Samuel Mark
Nokes, Irwin Dana
Nordlinger, Louis B., P. M.
Norton, Aaron Friedman
Norton, Richard Henry
Oaks, Louis David
O'Neil, Owen Hugh
Parker, Joseph Herndon
Partridge, Harry
Paulsen, Paul Olmer
Pedrlie, Andrew
Peftey, Arthur
Pettebone. Henry Well<'!!
Phillips, Erwin
Pierce, Harry Montgomery
Plummer, Charles Hicks
Polaski, Arthur
Potter, Daniel Myers
Powell, William Harris

576

ROSTER

Pozzo, Emile Anselmo
Pozzo, Louis Joseph
Prenzlauer, Albert
Purcupile, Charles Archibald
Purser, Sal Calhoun
Purwin, Leo Max
Raiss, Carl
Ramish, Adolph
Rangan, Joseph Alfred
Raphael, Meyer
Rappaport, Harry Henry
Reichenbach, Frank Benjamin
Reynolds, John Jacob
Rieder, Miehael
Richards, Ellsworth Francis, P. M.
Ritchie, Matthew R. Steele
Robertson, Orville Leroy
Robinson, Ed. Burnham
Rogers, Jacob Leopold
Rosenstein, Fritz
Roth, Eugene Henry
Ruben, Chas.
Ruben, Edward Marcus
Rumage, Otto
Sain, Alfred Rants
Balkey, Henry
Balkey, Jacob Samuel
Salmonson, Julius
Salzman, Maurice
Salzman, Max
Schub, Edward
Schiff, Ludwig, P. M.
Schiff, Solomon
Schneider, Martin
Schoenfeld, Benj.
Schulman, Bernard
Schutte, Joha:m Gottfrie•l
Schwartz, Charles Edwanl
Schweitzer, Arthur Dell
Scolary, Philip Anton
Seabrook, Jesse Rolando
Segale, Joseph Marion
Sheuerman, Bernhardt
Siegel, Frederick
Siegel, Myer

Siegel, Ralph
Sieroty, Adolph
Silver, Herman, P. M.
Silverstein, Frank
Simms, Vinton Delos
Simon, Eli Harry
Skeel, William Spencer
Slack, Harry Simpson
Slotterbeck, Harry
Smith, Francis William
Smith, Joseph Lafayette
Smith, Thomas Sherman
Snodgrass, Henry Milton
Snyder, Abraham
Solomon, Jacob Carl
Stanton, Philip Ackley
Stapp, Clyde Wesley
Stein, Samuel H.
Steinbeck, Ernest Frederick
St!Jinlein, Karl
Stephens, Frank Arch
Stern, Alfred
Rtern, Gustave
Sternberg, Max Joseph
Stevens, Loren Earl
Stevens, Will Phoen<l~r
Stewart, William Daniel
Strayer, Charles Walton
Streicher, Michael
Stump, Charles Ayen
Summerfield, Gus Lewin
Summerfield, Isidor
Sweet, Otto
Swirt, John Ferguson
Switzer, Albert Offutt
Taskey, Paul
Taylor, Waller
Thompson, Arthur Marsh
Thompson, Benj. Willey
Triest, Karl
Triolo, James Slorach
Trippet, Oscar A.
Tunison, Albert Lafayette
Turnbull, Mark
Turner, Chas. Flavel

ROSTER
Tyroler, Adolph
Vignolo, Albert
Vignolo, Lorenzo
Wacherbarth, August
Wacholder, Joel
Walter, Albert
W anka, Louis Ferdinand
Watson, James Henry
Webb, Roy Edward
Weinberger, Isidor
Weismeyer, Clifford T.

Weismeyer, Glen Morton
Weyl, Emil Marx
White, William Addison
White, William James
Widomen, Alonzo M.
Willard, Eugene
Wittenberg, Ernest J.
Woolner, Henry Sigmund
Zeehandelaar, Felix Josephus
Zeisler, Adolph
Zuckerman, Maurice

577

-396

WITHDRAWN:
Newman, Julian Stanford
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Heinzeman, Edward Anthony
McDivitt, Frank Paul
Hupp, George Schoter
Pollock, Frank Joseph
Sargeant, Theodore Anthony
DIED:
Zinnamon, Joseph

Youngerman, Moses

FRUITVALE LODGE, -No. 336.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Everett Parish, Master,
George Cornell White, Chaplain,
2818 Atwell Ave., Oakland.
Roddy Compton Black, Sen. Deac.,
Harry Bercovich, Senior Warden, Samuel LeRoy Bishop, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Carl Schwinn, Junior Warden,Harry Thornally, Marshal,
William Henry Hackett, Treasurer, William Irvin Day, Steward,
Frederick Calvin Clark, Secretary, Harold Dray Perry, Steward,
3012 Central Ave., Alameda, Cal. Charles Bendell, Tyler.

Albers, William Richard
Alexander, Dean Wm.
Anderson, Frederick
Anderson, Ola
Barber, Alfred Arthur, P. M.
37

MEMBERS:
Bartlett, William Herbert
Beach, Melville Clinton
Beaven, Alfred S. A.
Beckwith, Ward Maklelow
Beeman, Reuben W.

578

lWSTBR
ROSTER

Benard, Augustus, Jr.
Bendell, Charles
Bender, John Valentine
Bennett, Alfred Edward
Bercovich, David
Bercovich, Harry
Bercovich, William
Bishop, Samuel Le Roy
Black, Roddy Compton
Blake, Llewellyn Week.
Bolesworth, Britten
Boscus, John Marie
Bowlsbey, Edward ~.
Boyle, Harry Louis Jamea
Bridge, William Bayley
Bridgman, William Calib
Briggs, Charles Linford
Burman, John
Cameron, Kenneth
Carew, Cornelius, P. M.
Church, George Franklin
Churchman, William R.
Clark, Alba Ezadore
ClRrk, Frederick Calvin
Claudius, Peter
Clough, George M.
Cole, Albert Samuel
Colquhoun, James Crawford
Coolidge, George Harry
Covell, Marcus Victor
Crawford, Thomas Olin
Crosby, Daniel
Crowe, John Johnston
Cumbers, Charles Wm.
Cutting, Edwin M.
Dahnke, Frederick H.
Davis, Edward William
Davis, James Mathew
Day, William Irvin .
Decker, Martin Arthur
Degelman, Nelson Rashel
DePuy, Anson Augustina
De Puy, Ji:dward Spence
Dicken, Charles Edward Lee
Dickson, Richard

Duckworth, Henry Almond
Durant, Francis AleL
Eden, Albert Garfield
Edwards, John Chandler
Ellard, Frederick Stuart, P. M.
Ellis, Alfred Trembath
Fake, George
Fehnemann, Benjamin
Field, Albert Edward
Figge, Henry Carl
Finkenstedt, George
Fletcher, Herbert Priest
Fording, Howard William
Foster William Warren
Frase:. Walter Henry, P. M.
Frazier, John Evangelist
Frederickson, Niel Andrew
Giles, Albert Henry
Gillies, John
Gillig, Leo.
Gracier, Leon Elijah
Grangye, William Lessley
Granman, Frank Wilhelm
Graf, Walter Henry
Greenman, Charles Hydron, P. M.
Hackett, William Henry
Hambleton, Thomas Clair
Hammel, Julina C., P. M.
Hankey, Lewis Edger
Hansen, Arthur Walter
Hansen, Peter Erland
Harper, William John
Hartman, Henry Lustenberger
Hauser, Martin Semon
Helmstein, John Henry, P. M.
Heald, Bert U1ma
Hill, Albert Palmer
Hiller, Herman franklin, Jr.
Hodgkins, Armin Clarence
Holst, Peter Mathisen
Howatt, Scott Bell
Hubbel, John Harvey
Hughes, Alfred Bertrum
Hughes, Charles
Humpert, Frank Edward

'

Humpert, William Fritz
Hunt, Ernest Edward
Ingle, Elbert Quincey
Jacobsen, Andrew
Johannsen, John Olaf
Johnson, John
Jones, David Melvin
Kauhamen, Alexander
Kelley, Dixon William
Kendrick, William
Kennedy, Edwin Amon
Kenyon, Walter Edwin
Kletz, Joseph Jacob
Korte, John Rudolph
Larsen, Ludvig Emil
Latimer, William George
Lavergne, Paul
Lepori, Constantine
Leve, Marcus Solomanson
Levy, Edward
Litton, Roy Burton
Lombard, John Aren
Long, Edward
Look, Arthur Elbert
Lubbock, Oswald John
Lund, George Emil
Manning, Wilder Munson
Marke, Louie
Martin, George Willett
Martin, Thomas Calicoat
Maus, Charles Frederick
McArthur, John
McEwen, John Cameron, P, M.
McKay, Oliver Bland
McTear, William George, P. M.
Miller, Lucius Sawtell
Nason, Hubert Cecil
Nelson, David
Nielson, John Alfred
Noonan, Frank
Nordman, Peter
Owen, David John Robert
Owen, Llywelyn
Parish, James Everett
Perry, Harold Dray

57!!

Peters, William
Petersen, James Bande
Peterson, William James
Pladwell, Franklin Townsend
Port, Philip Joseph
Rasmussen, Hans Frederick
Reppy, Loyal McClaflin
Rice, William Frederick
Roane, Robert Heron
Roberson, Henry Alfred
Rollings, Martin Hughlings
Rounsevell, Philip Nelson
Rossetor, Frank Stuart
Salmela, John
Schenck, Stephen AleL Douglas
Schullerts, Frank 0.1 P. M.
Schwarzchild, Bert
Schwinn, Henry Carl
Scott, Clifford William
Shoberg, Nels Wilhelm
Sinclair, Rodney Fred 'k
Sittman, George August
Skow, Niels Anderson
!1
Slavan, James P., P. M.
.u
Smart, David, Jr.
Smith, Joseph Byrd
Snow, Arthur Pliny
Stengel, Edmond Bernard
Storch, Hugo William
Stow, Frank Lee
Stockwell, Geo. Stanford
Swenson, Carl John
Taber, Donald Jacob
Taylor, Harvey Kirk
Thompson, Simpson
Thornally, Harry
Thornally, Samuel
Thornally, William G., Jr., P. M.
Thorsted, Peter Jansen, Jr.
Tomlinson, J oeiah
Tyack, Henry
Truitt, Harry Ellsworth, P. M.
Vandergrift, Lyle Bird
Wade, Francis North
Waitman, Joh~

580

ROSTER

Walker, Herman Otto
Walker, Jasper W.
Walton, Jacob Philip
Weber, Arthur
Welch, George Deake, Jr.
Whitaker, Lucian Myron
White, Alfred
White, George Cornell
Wieben, Alex. Christian
Wightman, Minor

Wilderson, William Franklin
Willard, Archie Edwin
Williams, David Greenleaf
Williams, George Francis
Williams, John Edward
Williams, Robert Henry
Williams, William R.
Wilson, David Lincoln
Wooldridge, Perry
Zeis, Oscar Louis
-210

WITHDRAWN:
Hildebrand, Newton Franklin
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Everett1 Thomas Burton
Amlin, Thomas Emory
Hawkins, Alfred
DIED:
Thornally, William G.1 Sr.

CARQUINEZ LODGE, No. 337.
Crockett, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, :first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Herbert Whiteman, Chaplain,
Jacob Erratt Hughes, Master,
Peter Miller, Jr., Senior Deacon,
Crockett, Cal.
William Charles Madden, S. Ward., FranCis Pascal Doughty, Ju11. Deac.,
Chandler Holton Smith, Jun. Ward., Alvin A. Paul, Marshal,
George Jones, Treasurer,
Leo Charles Kleinkopf, Steward,
Herbert George Powers, Secretary, William Henry Neff, Steward,
Griffith Lloyd, Tyler.
Crockett, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, John McLay
Booth, Charles ~enry
Andersen, John Christian
Booth, Newton Senator
Astleford, Robert Jones
Booth, William Francis
Bahney, Luther William
Bowman, Melville Bryant
Baltrusch, Richard Carl
Broder, Joseph
Beam, Arthur Wellesley, P. M.
Clark, John J.
Beda, Paul
Collings, Charles James
Bolton, Thomas Merrill, P. M.
Davis, John James

ROSTER
Delacruz, Manuel
Dorman, John Henry, P. M.
Doughty, Francis Paschal
Dow, David Winter
Dunning, William Sheldon
Edwards, Thomas
Fenwick, John Frederick
Freund, Edmund, P. M.
Fulton, John Weir
Gabbs, John Lincoln, P. M.
Garwood, William Simpson, P. M.
Gates, Isaac Newman
George, Frederick Robert
Glick, John Alva
Gordon, Luther de Wayne
Hanford, Wm. Henry
Harris, Eugene R.
Harris, Thomas Allen
Helmer, George Alfred
Hodgkins, George Melvin
Howard, Ewin Loammi
Hughes, Jacob Erratt, P. M.
Huntington, Ralph Stanley
Hushbeck, Clarence
Hyde, George
Jeffery, Edward John
J ochem, Fred
Jones, Charles Humphrey
Jones, George, P. M.
Jones, Harry Lorenzo
Jones, Humphrey Rees
King, James
Kleinkopf, Leo Charles
Knudsen, Louie
Laidlaw, William Murray, P. M.
Le Bonrvean, John Franklin
Lloyd, Griffith

581

Long, John Albert
Madden, William Charles
McNaughton, William Francis
Mehrens, John Gerhard
Miller, Peter, Jr.
Moignard, Phillip Richard
Moiles, Theo. Despard
Narbett, James Thomas Syrian
Neff, William Henry
Owen, Richard Ellie
Paul, Alvin A., P. M.
Pedrotta, Charles Felix
Petersen, Emil Henry
Phillipe, John Barber
Polson, Paul
Powers, Herbert George, P. M.
Quinn, James William
Reid, Edmund Robert
Rodney, Hiram Ault
Rowlands, Matthew Arthur
Skinner, Walter de Esteng
Schaecker, George Oliver
Schumacher, Oscar T.
Sherman, Francie Harvey
Smith, Chandler Holton
Sullenger, Albert Noah
Sweetser, George William
Taylor, George Stetson
Thomae, Charles Philip, P. M.
Thomae, Frederick Reuben Grant
Turner, Manley Mansfield
Upton, George Lane
Warren, Chester Howard
Whiteman, George Herbert
Woodside, Jamee Elliott
Yatchmenoff, Ans Harry
Yates, Henry Newton
-90

WITHDRAWN:
Howser, William Willard

DIED.
Nichols, Harvey Bartlett

582

ROSTER

SAN JACINTO LODGE, No. 338.
San Jacinto, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Farmer, Master,
San Jacinto, Cal.
Carsten Truelsen, Senior Warden,
George Grover, Junior Warden,
Jackson Hopkins, Treasurer,
James H. Oswald, Secretary,
San Jacinto, Cal.

Daniel W. Nightingale, Chaplain,
Ellis T. Tanner, Senior Deacon,
Winslow M. Ryan, Junior Deacon,
Walter Stephan, Marshal,
Frank A. Druding, Steward,
Charles D. Pool, Steward,
John B. Garbani, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Aleksa, Girolamo
Anderson, Everett Johnson
Baisley, Maynard Lowe
Ballou, William Addis
Bell, Robert Lemuel
Belzer, Henry
Bergman, Henry Frederick
Bingham, Samuel John
Birge, Warren Percy
Black, Samuel
Blackburn, Fred Abner
Blackshaw, JoS'eph Edward
Blair, Alexander
Bryant, William Henry
Cook, Frank Heald
Crofton, Robert Augustus
Curl, Charles Albert
Cutler, Samuel Summers
Davidson, Callou James
Druding, Frank Anthony
Dynes, Charles Edgar
Elliott, Charles William
Farmer, Frank
Fast, William Alger
Fulton, William Macarthur
Garbani, Jacinto
Garbani, John Bartolomo
Goff, Hugh Roy
Gray, William Henry

Graf, Conrad Robert
Grover, George, P. M.
Hart, William James
Haverman, Cornelius D.
Hopkins, Jackson
Hunt, George Franklin, P. M.
Huntoon, Joseph Horton
Jacobs, William Donaldson
Keil, William Frederick
Kimmel, Welland E.
Kinne, Elmer Frederick •·
Knapp, Edward Burke
Knight, Herbert Cecil D.
Ladd, Zaccaheus Ezra
La Rue, James Zeller
La Rue, Jeremiah
Lawson, Andrew Nils
Martin, Frederick Clinton
Matthews, Gustave, P. M.
Maxwell, James Baker
Molyneux, Robert Sefton
Nightingale, Daniel Webster
Oliver, William Thomas
Oswald, James Henry
Pieree, Clark Clyde
Plato, John
Pool, Chas. Dickens
Roulston, Robert John, P. M.
Ryan, Winslow Morrell

ROSTER
Sager, Edgar Pendleton
Sallee, John P.
Sallee, Joseph Walter
Scales, John Henry
Schawcofer, Leonard Tryon
Sears, Wiliiam J.
Sharp, John Christopher
Schoebridge, Henry Philip
Simpson, Joseph
Smith, Homer Albert
Smith, John Zellar
Smith, Robert L. I.
Smith, Robert Raymond, P. M.
Smith, Selvester Kincade
Snow, Rose Rutledge

Feldmiller, John Fred

583

Snyder, Ferdinand, Jr.
Stephan, Walter ·
Strasser, Frederick Karl
·Tanner, Ellis Theo., P. :M..
Ticknor, Joseph Charles
Thompson, Frank
Truelsen, Carsten
Van Dusen, Harry Hartman
Vosburg, William Gatee, P. M.
Walker, Hayes Alonzo
Waller, Henry George
Waterman, Julius Max
Wilson, William
Wright, Lucius Alonzo
Wright, Wm. Charles
-8S

WITHDRAWN:
Milliken, Peter
Walker, Fred

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chapman, Samuel Hall
Swezea, Jay

FULLERTON LODGE, No. 339.
Fullerton, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Amos Everett Griffin, Master,
Russell B. Whiteside, Chaplain,
Fullerton, Cal.
Judson McClintock Hillman, Sen. D.,
Charles Stanley Chapman, Sr. Ward., Lucien Clarence Edwards, Jun. Deac.,
George E . Lillie, Junior Warden,
Squire J. Lillie, Marshal,
Clyde Wellington Crandall, Treas., William Howard Johnston, Steward,
Archie Alexander McCormick, Sec., Wilton Henry Bogardus, Tyler.
Fullerton, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Clifton Royal
Almes, Charles Wesley
Ameri.ge, Edward Russell
Bailey, William Hervey, Jr.
Balcom, Baylis Greenwood

Barnes, Wm. Asa
Benchley, Edward Kelhgg
Benchley, Frank Kieth
Benchley, William Leonidas
Berkenstock, William

584

Berry, William Ernest
Bogardus, Wilton Henry
Boege, Edward· Otto
Bonderson, Peter N.
Bradfield, Elias Harvey
Bradford, Percy L.
Braly, John Claude
Brown, William Thomas
B1:1rgese, William Eugene
Canavan, Franklin Austin
Carhart, James Ralph
Chapman, Charles Clark
Chapman, Charles Stanley
Chilton, Jesse
Christie, Samuel Longhead
Clark, George Cook, P. M.
Connoly, William Arthur
Copp, Charles Emerson
Copp, Frank Elmer
Coulter, William Fair
Coulter, William Fair, Jr.
Craig, Edgar
Craig, Guy
Crandall, Clyde W.
Culmer, Edward Cruse
Curtis, Charles Irving
Dahlman, Ludwig
Daley, Frederick H .
Daniel, Charles
Daniels, Henry W.
Davis, Maynard Robert
Davis, Russell Carlton
Dean, Elmer Williams
Dietzel, John William
Dreyer, William H.
Drips, Thomas George
Dunham, Fay M.
Edwards, Lucien Claren.ce
Flory, Samuel
Ford, James Ezekiel
Ford, William Martin
Fowler, Franklin Lee
Frankenberger, Joseph Idell
Fuller, Samuel N ..
Gardiner, John Reeder, P. M.

ROSTER
· Gardiner, Lilburn Majer
Garrison, Thomas Lantlon
Gobar, Frank J. ' ·
Good, Mathew Lincoln·
·Good, Matthew Melancthon, P. M.
Goodwin, William Arthur
Greenough, John A.
Gregory, Richard Spencer
Grewcock, David
Griffin, Amos Ernest, P. M.
Gustafson, Roy William
Hale, Willie Lee ·
Hamlin, William Lee
Hamm, Lewis
Harkey, Levi John
Har<ling, James
Hatfield, Guy D.
Henderson, Alexander
Hillman, Judson McClintock
~ltscher, August
Hoffman, Joseph Page
Holcomb, Francis Reuben
Holloway, Ralph Evans, P. M.
Johnston, Wm. Howard
Kammerer, George
Kammerer, William
Kinsler, Charles Clement
Kerin, Michael John
Kreighbaum, Oscar Adelbert
Lang, John Henry
Leslie, William Lincoln
Lester, Calvin Devore
Lillie, George E.
Lillie, Orrin Wilson
Lillie, Squire J .
Longley, Floyd G.
Lotz, Charles Edwin
Lotz, John Henry
'Marks, Emerson Joseph
:Mursh, Arthur Orlo
Marshall, John Lundy
McBride, Francis
McBride, Walter
McCart, Thomas James
. McCormick, Archie Alex

ROSTER
McDermont, Arthur
McFadden, Clarence Earl, P. M.
McFadden, Ralph John
McGhee, William
McKinley, Benj. Hurd
McKinley, Jerome
McPherson, Donald
Menges, Mark Millard
Metzgar, Jacob Elmer
Miller, Augustus George
Mills, Charles Newton
Morse, Nathan Frank
Newell, James W.
Pendergrast, Austin Albert
Pendleton, Alexis Lloyd
Pendleton, Alexis Theodore
Phillips, John Alex.
Piatt, Cla_rence M.
Pickett, James H.
Pomeroy; Albert Walker
Porter, Charles George, P. M.
Redelberger, Fred
Rho'ft.es, Henry Louis

Cunningham, James Lloyd
Vincent , Arthur L.

- 585

Ruddock, Chas. Edward, P. M.
Ruddock, George Albert
Robb, Charles James
Robinson, Loren Swift
Ross, David Marion
Saine, David Thomas
Schulte, Henry John
Scott, James Royal
Beedle, Jefferson Leroy ,
Skillman, Wa lt er ltenry
Sloan, Ambra Alfred
Small, Clif t on Mordan
Smith, Clinton Howard
Snyder, Fred
Staley, Arthur, P. M.
Stephens, Lewis Ely
Stephens, Rosco William
Welton, George Chauncy
Whiteside, Russell B.
Wickers, Henry Max
Winters, William Jacob
Woodruff, Walter Jonathan
Wyman, Henry Joshua
- 146

WITHDRAWN:
Wittmer, J acob
*Elliott , Irvine

•Degrees conferred during the year.

OXNARD LODGE, No. 341.

..

•

Oxnard, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Haskell W eaver, Master,
Frank Petit, Chaplain,
Oxnard, Cal.
Roy B. Hoffman, S enior Deacon,
Albert Guedemann, S enior Warden, Frank Wasserman, Junior Deacon,
J onathan F loyd Fulkerson, Jun. W ., Charles J ohn Elliott, Marshal,
Archille Levy, Treasurer,
Richard F ulkerson, Steward,
George Rolen Bellah, Secretary,
Claud C. Rupper t, Steward,
Oxnard, Cal.
F rank Brockman Pettis, T yler.

586

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Argabrite, John Riley
Emtman, Theo.
Armstrong, Clarence Leroy
Engstrum, Frans Otto
Armstrong, John C.
Engstrum, Frederick E<lgar
Arnold, Charles Rupert
Erkes, Herman Rudoph
Avery, John Howard
Fulkerson, Jonathan ]'Joid
Avery, Ralph Walburn
Fulkerson, Richard Johnson
Bagnall, Samuel Bremner
Gabbert, John Raymond
Bard, Thomas Robert
Gabbert, Thomas G.
Baum, George
Gill, Charles Alex.
Bagley, Charles Homer
Gill, Edmund Roy
Barrett, Ray Willits
Gill, Ernest David
Beardsley, Robert Lee
' Glascock, Raymond K.
Beasley, Henry Charles
Uoodyear, William Ernest
Beck, Rudolph, P. M.
Gourlay, Arthur
·
Bellah, George Rolen
Green, Chari~ Norris
Blackburn, Thomas B.
Griffith, James Keating
Blackstock, Charles Fidelia
Grigsby, Harry Pierpont
Boschke, Guy
Grove, Marvin Hurd
Hovee, Henry Hopkins
Gudemann, Albert
Brewster, Elbert Pineo
Hall, Robert
Broughton, George Anthony
Hartman, Elmer . Wilhie
Bruckman, Christopher
Hatch, Roger Knox
Burkley, August
Harkins, Alonzo
Haydock, Richard Barrett, P. M.
Carr, Earle, P. M.
Carr, Martin Van Buren
Heckman, John
Carr, Philetus Sprague, P. M.
Herlick, Jesseniue
Cast er, Edward Charles
Henry, Hugh
Coen, Othello Jerome
Hentrich, Lewis Valentine Bernard
Coultas, Alex. Evert
Hetrick, Jasper
Coultas, Thomas Arthur
Hitch, James Wilson
Hoffman, Roy B.
Coultas, William Walter
Crowley, William Henry
Roswell, Jeremiah Trone
Dickerson, William Warren
Howland, Jamee L.
Dinning, William Ha rry
Hughes, Harry Otto
Doremus, Frank William
Jenkins, Henry
Dorn, Chades I.
Johnson, James L eborn
Dreher, Gustav Peter
Keller, C. John
Driffill, Jamee Alex., P. M.
Knox, Chester Baker
Drury, Eugene Vernon
Lamb, Harry Ralph
. Eastwood, Herbert H.
Lambert, Herbert Smith
Edmondson, Robert Buchanan, P. M. Lang, Jamee Elton
F.lliott, Charles John
Langdell, Walter Irving
Ely, Martin Juda
Lathrop, Walter Hubert

ROSTER

587

Le Blanc, Thomae Sydne1
Schaible, Albert Kasper
Lee, Herbert
Sebast ia n, Alfred Tennyson
Lehmann, Edmond
Sebastian, John Louie
Lehmann, Leon, P. M.
Sebastian, Robert Milton
Lehmann, Mathew•
Small, John Adame
Lehmann, Paul
Shillingston, James Wes!ey
Levy, Achille
Sickles, Charles M.
Levy, Henry
Smith, Charles Thomas Elmer
Livingston, Wm. Reinhardt, P. M. Smith, Raymond Earl
Lodwig, Augustus Carl
Smith, Winfield Scott
Lothridge, Louie Stanley
Speer, Harry P.
Mack, Soloman Lawrence, P. M.
Snively, Ray Dean, P. M.
Mcinnes, William Joseph
t:lnow, Hiram King, Jr.
McMillan, William James
Snyder, Frederick Autes
Meyers, Benjamin Franklin
Spence, Jay
Milligan, John Leslie
Steinmiller, John
Moddrell, Jesse Hugh
Stewart, Isaac William
Montj;?omery, John
Thatcher, Fred Hartzell
Morrie, Bernard
Thompson, E rnest Milan
Murray, Joseph Henry
Tuebner, Chas.
Myers, John Hyland
Turbett, Alvarado D:iremus
Nelson, Robert Andrew
Turbett, John Smith
Penland, Louis Lyle
Venni nk, Henry Leonard
Petit, Albert Clayton
Vickers, Ashby Christian
Petit, Frank
Viles, Earl
Pettie, Frank Brockman
Virden, Benjamin S.
Pierce, Russell Ely
Wadleigh, Frank Orvil]
Poggi, Isaac Martin, P. M.
Walker, Thomas Eaton
Powell, Heber Chase
Wasserman, Frank
Reno, George
Waterman, E mil Max
Rice, Albert E.
Waterman, Willia111 Mnx
Rice, Ernest Everet
Weaver, Charles Haskell, P. M.
Rice, Paul Alvin
Weill, Sam
Ric&, Thomae Alex.
Wellington, Lorenzo Dow
Rodaway, Alfred Biggs
Wineman, H enry Leonard
R ose, Charles Oliver
Witman, H enry William, P. M.
Rummelsburg, Siµion
Witman, Roy Bradfield
Rupport, Claude C.
Wolff, Moise L a zarre
Saviers, Winfield Scott
Wood, E dwin H.
-164
WITHDRAWN:
Parish, John Wesley

ROSTEK

588

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Thurston, Albert L.
Eastwood, George E.
Turney, Douglas

Dunn, Oliver B.

DIED:
Holst, Bendix
Wineman, Sam

SAN FERNANDO LODGE, No. 343.
San Fernando, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James H. Jenifer, Master,
John Timothy Giffard, Chaplain,
San Fernando, Cal.
Harry Edgar Waite, Senior Deacon,
Patrick Joseph O'Donnell, S. Ward., Robert Love Fraisher, Jim. Deacon,
George Wilbur Bates, Jun. Warden, Jacob Harps, Marshal,
Frank Fairfield, Treasurer,
Thomas Peter Martin, Steward,
Fred E. Strader, Secretary,
Joseph William Barrett, Steward,
San Fernando, Cal.
William Lewis Bush, Tyler.

.Abels, Alex.
Aiken, John Martin
Allen, Henry Connell, P. M.
Bailey, George Herbert
Barclay, John Hugh
Barnier, Ed. Grafton
Barrett, Joseph William
Baruff, Frederick Lincoln
Bates, George Wilber
Benson, Samuel Berger
Burr, John, P. M.
Burr, William Thomas, P. M.
Collins, James Farren
DeAr:QJand, Roy
Downes, Rolla Edward
Erwin, William Francis S.
Evans, Roderick Dhu
Fairfield, Frank
Folger, Wilber Barton

MEMBERS:
Fraisher, Robert Love, P. M .
Fraser, Simon K.
Gifford, John Thomas
Gross, Frederick William
Gray, Oscar Clarence
Gribben, David James
Grossmeyer, James
Harps, Jacob
Harris, William Charles
Hewett, William Charles
Hitchcock, Francis Wille
Hogan, Charles Sturdivant
Hubbard, Henry Cutler
Jenifer, James H., P. M.
Jones, Joseph B.
Judy, Clifton Wilson
Kidder, Frank Allen
Lewman, Edgar Burdick
Lovejoy, Arthur Edward

ROSTER
Mackey, John Galbrath, P. M.
Marple, Thomas George
Martin, Thomas Peter
Matthews, William Henry, P. M.
McFadden, Arthur
McMillan, Lawrence
McCandless, Charles William
Myrick, Charles Nelson
O'Donnell, Patrick Joseph
Olin, Dwight B.
Peterson, Carl Alex.
Phillips, Harry Raymond
Pilcher, John Samuel
Powell, John Francis
Robeson, Carter Lenty
Rolls, John Randolphus
Rickels, Thomas
Rinaldi, Otto Franklin
*Arwine, James Tevis
*Fuller, George H.
Glasscock, Raymand Kerns

589

Rood, William Gaylord
Schneider, Chas. Edward
Schwinger, Edwin Henry
Shaug, Charles J., P. M.
Stoner, James Eleswarth
Strader, Fred E.
Symons, Charles
Thompson, Hiram Smith
Troxel, Frank Larue
Waite, Lyman Cobb
Waite, Harry Edgar
Walker, Fred
Walker, Thomas James
Wagner, John Adam
Weldon, Arthur
~heat, James Edgar
Wright, Francis Marion

-73

WITHDUAWN:
*Petrie, Hugh
*Searing, Jesse Albert
Sedwell, George William
*Oliver, William

•Affiliated during the year.

STARR KING LODGE, No. 344·
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Smith, Master,
Harry Walace Patrick, Organist,
27 Elgin Park.
Gustave Millington Carroll, S. D.,
Charles Oscar Munson, Sen. Warden, Carl Cohn, Junior Deacon,
Charles Baer, .Tunior Warden,
Charles Oliver Clausen, Marshal,
Bernard Katschinski, Treasurer,
Bernard Julius Joseph, Steward,
Hiram French \\fright, Secretary,
Herbert Ernest Chick, Steward,
Masonic Temple.
John Henry Sampson, Tyler.

590

ROSTER

ROST:I<:R

MEMBERS:
Cohen, Baruch
Abraham, Nathan
Cohn, Carl
Abrahams, Abe
Cohn, Joseph
Abrahams, Myer
Cohn, Max
Alper, Aaron Albert
Cohn, Newton Garfield
Alstrom, Alfred
Cohn, Samuel
Ames, Joseph Howard
Constine, Louis Sanders
Appel, Charles Louis, Jr.
Cooper, Abraham
Haer, Charles
Couehman, Clarence Arthur
Baer, Frederick
Crow, Samuel Marmaduke
Baer, Louis
Curtaz, Benj.
Baer, Max
Curtaz, Oscar Hugo
Baker, William John
Daniels, George Eaton
Batt, Saul Charles
Daniels, Roy Alonson
Bell, John Hamilton
David, Charles
Benham, George Bates
David, Isaac Lazarus
Berg, John
Davis, Burris Kineaid
Berlie, Frank
Davis, Philip
Berry, Gustie Shield
Dethlefson, Frederick
Binning, Alfred Henry
Deutseh, Ferdinand
Binns, Joseph Harry
Blackman, Ellis Aaron
Deutseh, Solomon, P. M.
Dinkelspeil, Henry George W.
Blackman, Morris Jacob
Dobszensky, Joseph
Blaekman, Osear Lemuel
Dodel, Hans
Blume, Samuel
Dodel, Xavier
Blume, Mier
Dowling, John Charles
Blume, Harry
Dudley, Tyler
Boek, Jaeob
Bock, James Samuel
Dugdale, George Edward
Duwer, August Paul
Bormann, Reinhold Herman
Brandenstein, Henry U.
Erickson, Akrel Waldemar
Bright, Joseph Aaron, I'. M.
Erickson, Charles Emil
Brownstone, Louis H.
Esehen, Lee
Bush, Ira C.
Farley, Frank Eugene
Cale, Francis Moses
Fleet, Albert Edward
Calmann, Julius
Fleteher, Claude Mathew
Cannon, Riehard
Ford, John Franklin
Canteowith, Arthur
Forsyth, Frederiek J aeo b
Carlson, Mathew A.
Fox, Henry
Frank, Milton Oscar
Caro, Edward Harry
Carroll, Gustave Millington
Franklin, Harry Paul
Chick, Herbert E.
Friedlander, Melville Lewis
Chollet, Henry Edward
Friedman, Emanuel
Clausen, Charles Oliver
Friedman, Henry

Friedman, Joseph Arthur
Gale, John William, P. M.
Gale, Milton
Garren, David
Gates, Alex. Warren
Gensler, Julius
Gilbert, Leo
Glaser, Arnold, P. M.
Glaser, Michaelis
Glass, Arthur
Goldman, Isaac
Goldstein, Eugene Harry
Goodman, Isaae
Goodman, Joseph, P. M.
Grange, Louis August
Green, Isador S.
Gunst, Joseph Henry
Gunzberger, Berthold
. Hackmeier, Adolph Jefferson
Haekmeier, Charles M., P. M.
Hackmeier, Wm. Clay
Hall, Fred 'k M.
Harris, Daniel David
Harris, Louis Lazarus
Hayward, Warren Bradford
Heath, Benjamin, Jr.
Heiss, Harold Louis
Henf!lhaw, Warren Wash. James
Herbst, Jaeob
H~rbst, Maurice Henry
Herzog, William Melville
Higgins, Solomon Franklin
Hirsch, Samuel
Hirshberg, David S11muel, P. M.
Hirshfeld, Isidor Morris
Hirshfeld, Peter
··
Honig, Samuel
Horowitz, Sebastian
H~we, Harvie Bosworth
Thereon, Robert T.
Isaaes, Milton Wm.
Jacobs, David
.raeobson, Samuel
Johnson, Delius Osear
Joost, Henry M.

Joseph, Bernard Julius
Kapperman, Edward Peter
Katsehinski, Alfred
Katehinski, Bernard
Katz, Arthur B.
Kearney, William Bernard
Kohn, Lester.
Kroll, Frederiek William
Lang, Leonard Williams
Lazarus, Leon Oehile
Leaf, Albert Henry
Leland, Thomas Byers Woo;l
Leopold, Samuel
·
Lester, Albert Mona
Levison, Robert John
Levy, Albert
Levy, Eugene Montifore
Levy, Henry Mareus
Levy, Mauriee Thomas
Liebling, Samuel
Lightner, Fre<leriek E.
Lloyd, Charles
Lobree, Aaron Allan
London, Mortimer Andrew
Lundin, Folk Frederick
Lunger, Harry Elmer
Lyneh, James Franeis
Manners, Herbert Edmond
Marks, Clarence David
Marston, Walter Harmon
Martin, William George
Matthews, Thomas Robert
May, Louis
Mayer, Emanuel Belaseu
McNab, Gavin
Meinhardt, John DaviJ
Mertens, Julius
Mish, Solomon Gerson
Munson, Charles Osear
Myers, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Nathan, Herman
Nathan, Louis David
Nelson, Nels Amalius
Neumann, Edward Rudolph
Neumann, William Frederiek

591

ROSTER

592
Newhouse, Milton Hardwig
Nicholas, Mathias Dora
Nielson, Wilhelm
Northrup, Edward Everett
Odland, John O.
Oppenheim, Samuel Philip
Osman, Chas. Clay
Patrick, Harry Wallace
Peake, William
Race, Colman
Rafael, John
Rechsteiner, Emil August
Renhens, Joseph
Roberts, Adam
Robinson, John Lee
Rombach, William
Rosenthal, Henry
Rosenthal, Max
Rosenthal, Sigmund
Salomon, Sam
Sampson, Frank Robert
Sampson, John Henry
Samuels, Jacob
Sanders, David
Schlesselmann, Adolph J. A.
Schlesselmann, Herman Henry
Schoenwald, Emil
Schwartz, Solomon
Schmidt, Theo.
Scott, Joseph Harry
Sanderman, Bernard Jacob
Shapiro, George Henry
Simenauer, Emil
Simon, Harry Lewis, P. M.
Simon, Samuel
Smith, Asa
Smith, Archie Ferguson

8crivener, Martin Deiware

Smith, Harry Louis
Smith, Thomas
Speck, John Henry
Spencer, Carlington Theo.
Stevens, Myron Munson
Stranahan, Harry Ozro
Strine, George Wesley
Stulsa.ft, Jacob Leland
Stulsaft, Morris
Thomas, Isaac
Toft, Noels Bennetsen
Tonkin, James Varco
Truman, Charles Henry Jacob
Unger, Isidor
Walt, Benjamin
Waring, Henry Monroe
Wegener, George Nicholas
Wehser, Will Emil
Weidenthal, Samuel H.
Weir, James
Wendling, George Xavier
Wessel, Harry Arthur
Williams, William Robert
Winterberg, Gustave Conrad
Withington, Charles Warren
Wittman, William Geor¥e
Wolfenden, George Carlile, P. M.
Wolfe, Edward I.
Wolff', William
Wollenberg, Charles Maurice, P. M.
Wollenberg, Isidor
Worster, Arthur Bourne
Wright, Hiram French
Yeatman, John Andrew
Yonge, John Duko
Young, Golson
Zelinsky, David
-250

WITHDRAWN:
Damon, George
Trout, Ferdinand

ROSTER

593

BRENTWOOD LODGE, No. 345.
Brentwood, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

j
OFFICERS:.
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

Agnews, Jesse B.
Armstrong, Joseph Johnston
Barkley, George Taylor
Bettens, Albert
Bonnickson, Archie Everett
Boyd, John, P. M.
Boydston, Erwin John~on
Boydston, Ulysses Ambler
Bridges, Aaron Nelson
Brown, Frank Thomas
Bruns, John Frederick
Bucholtz, Paul
Buness, Alexander
Bunn, Edwin
Bunn, Willi.am Edwin
Carmichael, David
Collis, Austin Watson, P. l'«{.
Cook, Francis Steven
Cowan, Charles
Dean, Al1len Ora
Estes, William Jefferson
Gibson, Albert Charles
Harley, Sherman Ellsworth
Harrower, Robert, Jr.
Heidorn, Frederick Henry
Heidorn, Henry William
Hinebaugh, Walter Broox
Hobbs, Wm.
Howard, William Guy
Hutchins, George N.
Kelly, Fernando Gue

MEMBERS:
King, Emanuel Anthony
Koppernd, Anders Harold
Lemoin, Rueben E.
Lucksinger, Frederick M.
Ludinghouse, George Henry
McCabe, Roy Lester, P. M.
McNutt, Simon F.
Morgans, Watson Philip
Morgans, William Watkins
Nason, James Edward
Nelson, Henry Archie
Petersen, Alfred
Prewett, Joseph Granville
Prewett, Orlando Columbus, P. M.
Richards, Lewis
Russell, _George Cliffortl
Shafer, Earle Bainbridge
Shafer, George Henry
Sheddrick, Enock Waldo
Shellenberger, Charles Thomas
, Stone, Harry
, Taylor, Volney
Veale, William Worth
Vivian, Wm. Albert
Wallace, Raymond Lester
Wallace, Robert Harold.
Wallace, Robert, Jr., P. M.
Weihe, Frederick William
Whipple, William M.
Williamson, William Colbert
-61

WITHDRAWN:
Altizer, William Taswell
38

ROSTER

594

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Gardner, Robert
Grigsby, Byron Lindsey

Lewis, T. Archibald
Nunn, George
Pettit, William Wallace

PALO ALTO LODGE, No. 346.
Palo Alto, Santa Clara. County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Clair Thoits, Master,
Alfred Seale, Chaplain,
632 Palo Alto.
Hoi.rry Norman Vandervoort, S. Deac.,
,
D
P .0. Box
Clement Elisha Jordan, Sen. Ward., Otto Albert Wideman, Jun . eac.,
Ralph Warner Follmer, Jim . Ward., George Washington Harms, Marshal,
John Fletcher Byxbee, Treasurer, James Bertrand W~lls, Steward,
William Clowes Werry, Secretary, Egerton Drew Lakin, Steward,
632 High St., Palo Alto.
Richard Werry, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Buck, Sylvester John
Ackley, Edward
Burbank, Daniel Wellman
Allen, Benjamin Graves
Burke, William Edmund
Allen, Franklin S.
By.x:bee, John Fletcher
Allen, William Benjamin, P. M.
Campbell, Henry Aver
Anderson, Robert Edwin
Carah, John Henry
Bailey, Leslie Eugene
Childs, Clarence E.
Barker, Lewie Harmon, P. M.
Clack, George Sydney
Barnhisel, Winfield Scott
Clack, Sydney
Barrett, Frank
Clute, Elbert Schuyler
Beall, Carl Hugh
Cochran, Thomas Craig
Beall, Raiph Raymond
Coman, Daniel Earl
Beal, William Harvey
Cone, James Stowe
Bell, Benjamin Franklin
Cook, Gordon Irving
Bell, John Henry
Crawford, Perry Orson
Bille, George Christian
Crooks, John Chisholm
Billwiller, Ernest Oswald
Cuthbertson, Harry Fender
Blackman, Harold Stabler
Dean, William
Blake, Thomae Barnard
Decker, Charles William, P. M.
Blee, Harry Harmon
DeForest, Albert Tracy
Braunschweiger, Edward
Derby, William Flagg
Brinton, Walter Franklin
Downing, Claude Stan11ish
Brockmann, Henry Fred 'k Wm.

ROSTER
Lockey, Richard, Jr.
Dudfield, John
Duryea, Edward, Jr.
Logan, James Blaine
Engle, Alfred Jones
Luis, Franklin Alfred
Ferguson, Aleck Sanford
Martin, Ernest Whitney
Fisher, Marshall Weston
Martin, Geo. Everett
Fitzgerald, Fred Finley
McComish1 Ralph Clinton
Follmer, Ralph Warner
McDowell, John Ezra
Foss, George Lawrence
McKinney, William Thomas
Foss, James Calvin
Metz, William
Gallagher, Gustave Charles
Miller, Clark Flickner
Miller, Frank Joseph
George, Emery Edwin
Gilman, Charles Edward
Mills, Frank Richard
Gilman, Philip Kingsnorth
Monzingo, John Johnson
Goodman, Theodore Henry
Morris, Joseph Jonathan
Griffin, James Owen
Mosher, George Wilbert
Hackley, Robert Edward
Moyer, Jonas Jacob
Raehl, Harry Lewis
Munger, Arthur Lee, Jr.
Hall, George Elbert
Myer, Arthur Henry
Harms, George Washington, P. M. Noble, Chester Francis
Henry, Clarence Eugene
Nunn, George
Herdman, Robert Ernest
Ogier, Andrew Reid
Hodges, Charles Edward
Olsen, Peter
Holman, Sidney Smith
Orr, Horatio William
Horabin, William 0.
Palmateer, Theron Josiah
Huffman, Warren
Parsons, James Edward
Hughes, Watt
Patriek, William
Hutchinson, Francis George
Patterson, Henry Samuel
Pennock, John
Ingelow, Geo. Carpenter
Johnson, John Olaf
Perry, Henry Fates
Jones, James Walter
Porter, Arthur Miller
Jordan, Clement Elisha
Prewitt, Jesse Augustus
Junge, George Edward
Read, Bill
Kaiser, Joseph Jacob
Reinhart, Jacob Henry
Reynolds, Harry Clendenin
Kingham, Edward Jolin
Rodgers, Walter
Kirk, Josiah Nerman
Lake, Hsrrison Morton
Roller, Arthur
Roller, Josiah Wickerd, P. M.
Lakin, Egerton Drew
Roller, Milton Benjamin, P. M.
LaPeire, Edwin Arnaud
Ryan, Shirley Bell
Laumeister, Gustave
Sabin, Henry Wells
Lausten, Brousen Peter
Salbach, Lloyd Fillmore
Leaf, Erle Mervin
Saunders, Arthur Bertram
Lenox, Lionel Tracy
Saunders, Howllrd Elwood
Levy, Paul Mark
Seale, Alfred, P. M.
I;ewis, Arthur Edward
l:ichenck, Robert Noble
Liggett, James Bennett

59f.

ROSTER

'597

ROSTER

596
Schomberg, Robert Noble.
Schwarzkopff, Rudolph Herman
Simkins, Henry Walter
Smallpage, Lafayette John
Smiley, Frank Jason
Smith, Charles Lewis
Snow, Frank Jotham
Sonnickson, Andrew Outzen
Spamer, Herbert August
Spencer, Allan Thomas
Starnes, Xaver Brand
Taff, Joseph Alex.
Taylor, Charles Marvin
Taylor, Edwin Lothrope
Taylor, Henry Thomas
Taylor, Leroy Edwin
Taylor, Rodman M.
Thoits, Edward Clair
Thoits, Willis Clifford
Thomas, Benjamin
Thompson, Philip Johnson
Thorpe, Roy Pearl
Tyler, Willard Tburston
Umphreys, Albert N., P. M.
Upham, Henry Laurens

Vandervoort, Harry Norman
Walker, Charles Conwell
Walker, Lou Cain
W allaee, Van Alstine
Walters, William Fred'k
Waring, Gerald Ashley
Week, Edward
Weisshaar, Emil Florentz, P. M.
Wells, James Bertrand
Wells, James Webster, P. M.
Werry, Richard
Werry, W~lliam Clowes
White, Walter Noy
Wideman, John Baptiste
Wideman, Otto Albert
Wiley, Joseph Woods
Willard, John David
Wilson, Carl Groves
Wiltse, Benton R.
•Winsor, Anon A.
Wood, Fred 'k Bertram
Woodward, Robert Clarence
Worsley, Ralph Harlow
Young, Clarence R.
Zschokke, Theo. Christian
-184

WITHDRAWN:
Roberts, Hugh Roland
Boyd, John Duncan
.
Robinson, Charles Aubrey
Carrithers, Albert Sidney Willis
Shelton, James Erritt
Mccowen, Hale, Jr.
Wallace,
Rog~r Wayne
Patton, John Quincy
SUSPENDED FOR · NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Seargeant, James Everett
Woods, Ira McMicken

Meares, John London

EXPELLED:
Black, Marshall
. DIED:
Newland, Lloyd

McKINLEY LODGE, No. 347. ' l
Richmond, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

..

OFFICERS:

"

'

Charles Johan Peterson, Master,
Harry Leander Ells, Chaplain,
8 Mintzner Ave., Richmond.
Clarence Herbert Foote, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Lincoln Jones, Sen. Ward., Michael Henry Carey, Jun. Deacon,
Hiram Elnathan Jacobs, Jun. Wara., John Lindahl, Marshal,
Winfield Scott McRacken, Treas.,
Roy Clifford Fernald, Steward,
Walter Theodore Helms, Secretary, David William Baker, Steward,
235 6th St., Richmond.
John Roth, .Tyler,
MEMBERS:
Adams, Robert Lee
Cruickshank, James
Adams, Tobias Whit
Dailey, Benjamin Clinton
Dalton, Charles Irving
Allen, Edwin Otto
Abbott, Ursa S.
Dargitz, Edwin Dewaine
Baker, David Wm.
Davis, Daniel David
Barney, Hawley Nathan, P. M.
Differding, Henry
Barnhouse, Remus Howard
Dolan, Edward
Beckman, Louis
Down, Fred Robert
Beer, John Charles
Doyle, Vaechel Valentine
Bennison, Walter Scott
Duke, Ernest Clifton
Bergold, Wilbur Weygant
Ells, Harry Leander, P. M.
Erwin, David Lyttle
Blake, Charles Robert
Bolt, John Aidolph
Fenwick, William Brownlee
Boorman, Benjamin
Fernald, Roy Clifford
Fink, Joseph
Booth, William Chamberlain
Brown, John Elbert
Fitzpatrick, Patrick B.
Bunting, George
Follett, Geary Alton, P. M.
Cady, Ira Oscar
Foote, Clarence Herbert
Calfee, David Walker
Fordtran, Robert Lea
Campbell, Archibald Hamilto11., P. M Forrest, James
Campbell, Palmerston Cornick
Forster, Carl Emil
Carey, Michael Henry
Fox, William Alex.
Church, Palen, P. :M:.
Fuller, Ira Ford
Clark, Charles Allen
Fuller, William Rue
Codeglia, Antonio Nicodemo
Gillespie, Adam
Cowan, Charles Henry
Gillispie, Robert
Coward, John Robert
Goldstein, Maurice James
Critchett, Frank
Gregory, John Augustus
Hammill, Eddie Luman
Cronin, James Arthur

598
Helms, Walter Theodore
Hopkins, David
Hulin, Henry Titus
Hulse, John Sidney
Huntsinger, David E.
Jacobs, Hiram Elnathan
Jacobs, Thomas Parker
Jahnke, Albert August
Jarrard, Edward James
Johnson, Nels
Johnson, Robert John
Johnston, Henry Albert, P. M.
.Johnston, Milford Ray
Johnston, William Granville
Johnston, William Henry, P. M.
Jones, Edward Lincoln
Kirkwood, Edward
Kinney, Herman Bishop
Kiwisar, Martin August
Kennedy, Charles Clark
Kerner, Michael James
Krah, Joseph Leo
Lane, Wm. Samuel, P. M.
Larkin, Elwood
Larrabee, William Leroy
Larsen, Johan Christian
Leavell, Lewis Edward
Leber, Joseph Charles
Leyhe, Otto
Linsley. Carlos Shelton
Little, Samuel Glines
Lubeck, John Reinhold
Lucas, William Austin
Lindahl, John
Martin, Joseph Santana
Mason, William Daniel
McCombs, Frank
McRacken, Winfield Scott
McVicker, Archibald
McVittie, James Arba
Metzger, Elias Burgess
Meyers, Wm. Frederick
Michaels, Max
Mitchell, David Leroy
Morrison, Alexander John

ROSTER

ROSTER
Morrison, John Mcintyre, P. M.
Neville, Frederick Morgan
Nixon, Walter Wood
Nystrom, John Richard
0 'Brien, Pat AlV'&
Odell, Alpheus
Odell, Clarence Archer
Oertell, David
Palmer, Frank McVicker, P. M.
Park, George
Parker, ;Robert Lea
Parry, Charles Edward
Peterson, Charles Johan
Penry, Henry Lincoln
Pfeil, John Edward
Phillips, Virgil
Picton, William
Pollard, Frank
Poulsen, Otto Alex.
Rasmussen, Hans Peter
Ribley, Clyde
Richards, Howard W.
Richmond, William Brook, P. M.
Riegert, Charles Frederick
Rihn, Charles Joseph
Risdon, Herbert Thomas
Rose, William Edward, P. M.
Roth, John
Roth, Walter Edward
Rumrill, John Herbert, P. M .
Runyon, William Smith
Schaefer, Chas. Bismarck
Schorer, Lucas Frederick
Schwartz, Charles Adolph
Severio, Frank
Sheppai;d, Ottowell Everette
Sickal, Marcus Theo.
Smallwood, Ed. B.1tltimore
Smith, Beverly Bailes
Smith, Herbert Williamson
Smith, John Samuel
Spagnoli, Ben Wesley
Sutherlen, William Nelson
Swearingen, Barney
Swearingen, Harry Charles

...

Thomas, Benj. Franklin
Thompson, William Lewie
Topping, George Washington
Turkovich, Charles
Turkovich, Santo Mathew
Vidal, Frederic Emeric
Vizelich, Stanley Earle
Walker, William Andrew
Ward, Lloyd
Webster, Thomas Renshaw
Weirick, John Calvin

Keeney, Thomas Jefferson
McHugh, Evall Huber

699

Westerfeld, Charles Antone
Whitcomb, Charles David
White, Howard Bennett
Wierda, Lambert
Willets, Edward Braokett
Williams, William Henry
Wolf, Adolph Arnold Theo.
Wood, Frank Goodacre
Wood, Robert N ell'comb
Wyli!l, Oliver

-169

WITHDRAWN:
Schoen, Frederick
Summers, Thomas Holden
Trull, Walter Butler

EXPELLED:
Peicotto, Joseph Silva (F. C.)

Belding, Willi.am Forsythe

l

DIED:
Murray, John

SAN BERNARDINO LODGE, No. 348.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Roscoe Adams Goodsell, Master,
Jacob Sa muel Jonas, Chaplain,
363 17th St., San Bernardino.
Karl Fairfield Tuttle, Senior Deac.,
J oseph Hurd Wilson, S enior Ward.,Adam Ora Miller, Junior DeacoJJ,
Albert Glatz, Jimior W ardell,
James Hardin Ownbey, Marshal,
William Swayze Hooper, T reasurer, Ernest F rederick Ahnert, Steward,
J ohn F lagg, S ecretory,
F rank Wayne Webster, S teward,
P. 0. Box 477, S an Bernardino. Sydney Mee ( of Phoenix Lodge No.
178) ·················-·..·······················-·Tyler
MEMBERS:
Allen, William David Franltllil
Adams, George Norris
Allison, Charles Loran
Albert, James Edward
Aldridge, Marion Lafayette, P. M. Allison, Claude H.
Allison, Monte Demo1111
Allen, Byron William

,

600
Andreson, John
Anker, Rudolph
Arbios, Joseph Jacob
Armantage, William Lilley
Ball, William Amos
Batchelor, Sherman G.
Benjamin, Isaac
Benson, Nels R.
Blair, Edwin Scott
B!edMe, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Bledsoe, Howard
Bledsoe, James Blair
Bleqsoe, Robert Emmett
Boehm, Hiram Jesse
Boger, Roger Frank
Boggs, William Stewart
Bright, J. Shirley
Bright, Joseph Shannon, P. M.
Brill, Henry Edward
Brison, Wm. Willey, Jr., P. M.
Brown, William Lear, P. M.
Brush, Frederick Morton
Burgoyne, George
Caldwell, Oliver Morton
Carey, Charles Francis
Carpenter, Lucius Jerome
Carter, Tom Osland
Casey, Ben Shane
Churchill, Charles David
Clcvelan<l, Frank A.
Coates, James Arthur
Cobbs, Albert Richard
Cohn, Caesar
Cole, Frank Horace
Coultrap, Clyde
Cunnison, Jamee
Curtis, Isiah Hamilton
Daley, Charles Jefferson
Daley, Frank Barber
Daley, Michael Breen
Dean, John William
Deuchrass, Robert Bowie
Douthat, Warren H .
Downer, Abner John
Draper, Joshue. Clinton

ROSTER
Draper, Stoddard Stavene
Dresser, Nathaniel A; ·
Drew, All:thur Linford
Drew, Fred Charles
Drew, Roy Fordham
Dubbell, Peter John
Eddy, Joseph Haswell
Ellis, Arthur Nelson
Farner, William Samuel
Feetham, ·Geo. Francis. Andrews
Fisk, Oliver James ·
Fitting, Hans H.
Fitting, Harold Hansen
'Flagg, John, P. M.
Fox, Otto Max
Frith, Joseph Breathwhite, P. M
Frye, Gailen K.
Frye, Thomas Wilmott
Fussell, Elbert Ross
Gansner, Henry Florian
Geiger, Frank
Glasgow, Nathaniel B.
Glass, David Rose
Glatz, Albert
Glessner, Leroy Scott
Goodcell, Roscoe Adams
Graham, Henry Noel
Greer, Henry Munns
Grow, Charles Melville, P. M.
Hadden, Thomas
Ham, Alex. McMillian
Hanf, Charles Morrill ·
Harbison, Robert Clelland
Harris, Burton Lee
Harrison, John
Harrison, John Parker
Heath, Horace I.
Henderson, John Alexander
Henderson, Lubin Jameson
Herkelrath, Charles Philip
Herliek, Peter
Hibbard, Oscar Henry
Hight, John Platte
Himes, Benjamin Franklin
Hitchcock, William England

ROSTER

i

Hooper, William Swayze
Hoover, William Davis
Houghton,. Lagona ·Deriae
Housley, John Pellmas
Howland, Harry Charles
Hunt, William Charles
Ingersoll, Joseph
Irving, Carl
Irving, William Edward
Johnson, Ammi Keyes
Johnson, John Franklin, P. M.
John!!on, Volney Thomas
Jonas, Jacob Samuel
Kelley, Stephen Francis
Kendall, Albert Glenn
Kerm, William
Keyser, Howard
Lamb, Henry
Lamb, Wm. Walter
Laurance, Edwin Palmer
Lauterborne, Geo. Easton
Lawrence, Albert Edward
Lebovitz, David
Leeney, John Henry
Levy, Henry Raphael
Levy, Morse Samuel
Liverman, James Rufus
Longmire, Rufus Elbert
Loring, George Washington
Lothrop, Clinton Augustus
Lyman, Eugene Harding
MacGillivary; Russell W.
Mackenzie, Donald William
Maddox, William Clarence
Mallery, Arthur George
Manson, William Alex.
Mark, Max
Martin, John Franklin
McCarthy, Edward
McCrea, Roscoe Lorenzo
McDonald, Thomas Clifford
McElvaine, Jelferson
McElvaine, William Augustus
McGregor, Henry S.
McNabb, Samuel Brown Wylie

McQuiston, Flourons J.
Mettler, Alfred Samuel
Miller, Adam Ora
Miller, William Henry
Monahan, Charles Henry
Mort, Clyde Everett
Neild, Marcus Davidson
Newcomb, Leroy E.
Newton, DeWitt Perkins
Nish, James Easton
Nye, William Edward
Olcott, Le Roy
Owen, Gilbert Roy
Ownbey, James Hardin
Ownbey, Laramie Robert
Paddock, Aland Bertram
Parker, Wilbur Melton
Patterson, Clyde Roscoe
Peck, Elbert Charles
Pert, Thomas James
Pfp,iffer, Louis Alexander
Phillips, John B., P. M.
Phy, John M.
Poppett, Edward
.Poppett, John Robert
Post, Charles, P. M.
· Prescott, George Wash.
Preston, Godfrey
Preston, Thomas Cleveland
Ralphs, John Charles, Jr.
Rawicz, Louis Morris
Rawicz, Samuel R.
Reynolds, Dutton James
Rich, Joseph Eugene
Roberts, Clark Victor
Roberts, John Walter
Rogers, Daniel Ambrose
Rogers, William Horton
Rourke, William
Rouse, Charles Augustne
Ryan, Edmond D.
Sandefur, Ira Lee
Savage, Phillip Monroe
Schlott, Dwight Coleman
Shatto, Samuel M.

r.01

ROSTER

ROSTER

602
Shay, Walter Alexa111Jer,
Shedden, Jamee, P. M.
Sibley, Hiram Dell
Slamal, John
Sloat, Orrin Peck
Smith, James William
Smith, Vietor C.
Starke, Frank Ganahl
Starke, William
Stevenson, Orren Menzie
Stiles, William Heman
Stone, Moses Phillipa
Strong, David Charles
Burr, John Howard
Swarthout, Albert Riley
Switzer, Bert Washington
Thomas, John Winchester
Thompson, Robert Scott
'fhoms, Clifford Carlson
Tucker, Edward W.
Tully, Thomas Henry
Tuttle, Karl Fairfield

Barcume, George Rollins
Bradley, Robert Emmett

Voelkel, Theo. Robert
Wade, Charles A.
Wagner, Walter Douglu, P. M.
Waide, James Wilkerson
Waite, Everett Randall
Watt~, Robert Floyd
Webster, Frank Wagner
Weston, Joseph
W·eston, William Henry
Whitcomb, Horace Vernon
Whitcomb, Rupert Webster
Whitham, James Henry
Wight, Durant Clark
Wilkinson, Ralph Elmor
Wilson, Joseph Hurd
Wierwillie, Henry Adolph, P. M.
Woodling, Frank Leighton
Wright, Harry Cleveland
Yarnell, John L.
Yerkes, James Houston
Young, Walter
Zombro, Sumpter F .
-232
WITHDRAWN:
Higginson, Osmond Francis
Stockwell, Charles Martin

603

SEQUOIA LODGE, No. 349.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Orvill.e Benton Caldwell, Master,
John Ryle MacGregor, Chaplain,
3228 Adeline St., S. Berkeley.
Charles Clinton Young, Sen. Deacon,
Edwin Mason Fant, Seti. Ward.,
John B. A. Stewart, Junior Deacon, .
James Burris Wood, Junior Warden, Edward Floyd Hughes, Marshal,
Gilman William Bacon, Treasurer, Bruno Albert Fosterer, Steward,
John William Gwilt, Secretary,
Charles Edward Poulter Steward
611 Security Bk. Bldg., Oakland. James Rothschild Sloan,' Tyler. '

i

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Talbott, William Park

Carner, Ernest John

DIED;
Carner, John Henry

•

Adams, Wilbur Roy
Aikens, Ebbie Campbell
Allison, Claude Willis
Allsworth, John Boyd
Andrews, Herbert Charles
Andrews, Samuel Rufus
Anthony, Thomas Maurice
Appling, Jackson Beauregard
Arns, Richard Anthony
Atherton, Almon Dwight
Bacon, Gilman William, P. M.
Baker, Arthur Tullock
Baker, Harry Hamilton
Ballard, Harlie Rociter
Bamlll:ann, Fred 'k Richard
Barker, William Lyrenus
Bartelme, Ferdinand John
Bausch, Chas. Julius
Bayley, Frank Leslie
Bell, Glen Robert
Bell, William Picken
Bendle, Robert
Bendel, Roland
Bennett, Peter
Bevin, John
Ble~sing, Chas. Bernhardt
Bouterious, Amiel Oliver
Bowes, John Edward
Breedlove, Ira Newton

MEMBERS:
Bright, Herbert Nelson
Brill, Oscar Charles
Brodien, Edward Benjamin
Brown, Charles James
Brown, Clifford Edwin
Brown, Harry Winchester
Brown, Samuel, P. M.
Browne, Roy James
Brune, Alfred Ernest
Brusstar, William Smith, Jr.
Bullock, Orin Miles
Burr, Geo. Washington
Cahill, Patrick
Caldwell, Orville Benton
Chandler, Charles Monroe
Chapman, William H.
Christopher, Charles Andrew
Chubb, Charles, P. M.
Chubb, William Henry
Church, Elmer Sprague
Church, Harley Robert
Clark, Ernest Millens
Clarke, Austin Fisher
Cobb, Lewi11 Harrison
Cobb, Rufus Warren
Codington, Charles Frederick
Coffman, Alfred Bonham
Cole, Archie Duane
Cole, James Cairns, P. M.

604

ROSTER

Collins, Richard James
Collins, Willis Harold
Combs, Jerome Bert
Cook, Harry Burton
Cooley, Frank Lucius
Connell, Robert
Cox, William Warren
Cowell, Chas. Herbert
Currlin, Varlin Albert .
Currlin, Waldemar Edmund
Curzon, Frank
Darrow, John Walworth
Daughtrey, Edwin
Davey, Thomas Penrose
Davis, Leroy Lallance
Davis, Warren Marcus
Day, Edward James
Dean, Orie Snyder
Demers, Iszdor Peter
De Rome, Louis Mighel
Dexter, Henry Cushing
Dick, Fredi:rick Stewart
Dimpfel, George Peabody
Divelbiss, Charles Elsworth
Dixon, James Isaac
Dixon, Joseph Henry
Dolbier, Francis Delmar, P. M.
Donahoo, Edward Denniston
Doph, Robert Burns
Douglas, John Jasper
Dukes, Charles Alfred
Duncan, Robert, Jr.
Dunn, Carleton Howard
Dunn, Frank Marion
Dutton, David Cecil
Eager, Albert Osborn
Earl, Wallace Leroy
Eckert, Fred'k Wm.
Edwards, Francis Walter
Edwards, Thomas Edward
l!;dwards, William Henry
Eley, Geo. Samuel Barnard
Elftman, Oscar Alexander
Elkinton, Jacob Henry
Elliott, Harold Fred 'k

Elliott, John Scholes
Elliott, Ray Stevens
Elliott, Roy Herbert
Ellis, George Walter
Ellis, Louis Albert
Ellison, James
Emery, Charles Delmar
Fant, Edwin Mason
Faunt Le Roy, Joseph
Filgate, James Robert
Fletter, Oliver Watson
Footman, Henry Edward, Jr.
Forbes, Ernest
Forsterer, Bruno Albert
French, Fred Manning
Frost, Clarence Raymond
Fuetterer, Otto
Fuller, George Carlyle
Galbraith, Alexander
9-ibbs, Samuel Henry
Gilbert, Thomas
Gilbertson, James Coolidge
Gillet, Wallace Levi
Gisbert, John Jacob
Glando, Frank
Goldsmith, Bernard Seaman
Goodwin, Edward Leonard
Gray, Leon Ernest
Gray, Thomas
Greer, Jerome Bonaparte
U-rismore, George Calvin
Guild, William
Gurr, William
Gwilt, John William, P. :M.
Hadler, John Henry
Hadley, Marquis De Lafayette
Hagan, Hugh Lawrence
Hallowell, Edward Lewis
Hambleton, Fred 'k Wm.
Hamilton, William .BrittoJl
Hammack, George Fred 'k
Hanna, James Clendenin
Hansen, Andrew 'Martin
Hansen, Hans Petter
Hare, Horace Edward

ROSTER
Harford, Albert Kellogg
Journal, Philip Samuel
Harlow, Wilbur Burton
Jordan, Herbert Gray
Harper, Nelson Merrifield
Jung, Gottlieb
Hartley, David Clough
Jurgens, Chas. Henry
Hatch, Frederick Wm.
Kaehler, William Fred 'k
Hawley, Frederick William
Kehoe, William Evans
Hawley, Robert Tipton
Keifer, Harry Edward
Heathorne, William Elisha
Kelley, John Phillips
Hedberg, Karl Adolph
Kelly, Alexander Simpson
Hedemark, John Christian
Kergan, Wesley William
Hendrickson, Alonzo Bell
Kergan, William Wesley
Henning, John Arthur
King, Zeno Alexis
Herbert, William
Kirkland, John Nicholson
Hilton, Douglas Alton
Kivett, Walter Lee
Hobron, Samuel Harris
Klinkner, Frederick S.
Klinkner, Herman Parke
Holt, Arthur Edward
Knapp, Sherman Irwin
Holt, Robert Lyman
Kulchar, Stephen
Hopkins, Dan Leslie
Kuster, Mathias
Hopkins, Frank Reuben
Lackey, Howard Julian
Hopkins, Oliver Garratt
J,ake, Rufus Nathan
Horton, William Rogers
Larmer, Frank Benton
Hough, Edward Stanford Samuel
Larter, Harry de Witt
Hubbard, Ludlow
Laufer, Frederick William
Hudspeth, · Charles Ernest
· Ledig, Henry Arthur
Huebbe, Edwin Henry
Leiter, Charles William
Hughes, Edward Floyd, P. M.
Hughes, Geo. Franklin
Leiter, George Laren
Letts, Henry John
Hughes, Richard
Lewis, Hiram James
Huntley, John Stanley
Hurlbut, Reuben Preston
Lewis, Walter James
Husband, Charles, P. M.
Lilley, John Francis
Lind, Edward Martin
°Hutchinson, Gilbert Henry
Lindeblad, Peter
Innes, John
Irish, Clifford Lucius
Lockwood, Julian Lyman
Jackson, Ward Sutliff
MacDonald, Arthur Thomas
Jeffery, Charles Alex.
Macfarlane, William Johnston
Macfee, Neil
Jeffery, Richard Edgar
Jenkins, Richard Henry
MacGregor, John Ryle, P. M.
Jenkins, William Norman
MacMillan,' Alexander
Manning, Henry Lebusquet
Johnson, Albert George
Johnson, Albin Rµdolph
Mansfield, John Howard
Marquardt, Reynolds Gottlieb
Johnson, Charles; Jr.
Johnson, ' Edwin Henry
Martin, George Washington
Johnson, Horatio Almearn
Martin, James Lemuel
Johnson, Richard Bruner
Martin, Thomas Clark

605

606

ROSTER

Massey, Cyrel Vernou
Matthews, Harry Joseph
Maxwell, Claude
McClunie, William Johnstone
McCoy, William Johnson
McEwen, John Alex.
McGregor, Archibald McL.
McKinnon, Chester Gordon
McKinnon, Russell Norman
McMath, John Frederick
Mead, Rollin Orlando
Mende, Herman Louis
Meredith, George Sargent
Metcalf, Solon Thayer
Mielenz, Francis William Pinnick
Millar, John Rutherford
Miller, Mathias
Miller, Wesley Washington
Mitchell, Arthur Ralph
Moe, Charles Oliver
Morris, Charles Benjamin C.
Morris, Ray Hunt
Mote, Jesse Frampton
Mulford, Frank Stratton
Muller, Robert Eugene
Myhre, Samuel Alfred
Neal, John Wesley
Neberker, Frank Orlando
Nicholas, James Stewart, Jr.
Nickerson, George White:fleld
Norman, Robert Edward
Northcut, John Raymond
Norton, Dixon Beldon
Olsen, Hans
Olsen, Oscar
Olsen, Sidney Gilbert
Parke, James Henry
Parsons, Chae. JetfreYll
Paulsen, Christian Nicolai
Pellymounter, Otis Ashley
Pennycook, James Raymond
Poterson, Cl\rl Theodor
Platt, Samuel J.
Porter, Frank Flint, P. M:
Porterfield, Arthur Colmery

Poulter, Alfred Mayer
Poulter, Charles Edward
Poulter, Charles Thomae
Powers, Charles Augustus
Price, Wallace Covert, Jr.
Quinn, Paul John
Ragland, William Beverly
Randall, Earl Roecoe
· Read, Roy Risley
Reagh, Edward Mitchell
Reed, Clarence :Monroe
Recd, George William
Reed, Willillm
Rees, Claude
Riegels, Max Jacob A.
Risley, Thomas Eugene
Robinson, James Irwin
Robinson, Thomas M.
Robinson, Thomas Shanks
R dgers, Lionel Stuart
Rogers, Edward Kenneth
Rogers, Eugene Charles
Roland, Eugene Wellington
Ruble, Milton Alfonso
Rugg, Ray Ruggles
Rudolph, Louis Andrew
Sackville, George Lucian
Sayers, John Walter
Schubart, Richard Charles
Schwaner, William Frederick
Scott, Francia Henry
Scott, Geor~ Amos
Scott, John Christiansen
Scrivens, Charles John
Seavey, Benjamin Eastman
Seavey, Ralph Eastman
Seiler, Herbert F:rederick
Senram, Frank C.
Seyden, Alfred
Sharp, Craigie
Sharp, Harry William
Sharp, Joseph William
Shedd, Horace Everett
Shepperd, Elmer Earl
Shibley, Clyde Clarence

ROSTER
Silsby, Edward Howard
Sloan, James Rothschild
Small, Mahlon Emanuel
Smith, Dudley Almonte
Smith, Ray Sidney
Smith, Robert Tangier
Smith; Rufus Garfield
Smith, Theodore Hyde
Spencer, Wirt D.
Staples, Frank Elden, Jr.
Stearns, Elum Earl
Stein, Philip Harry
Stewart, .John B. A.
Stieper, Julius Theodor
Stoli, George Fredrick
St ollard, Thomas Alfred
Stratford, Chester Grant
Stratford, Frank Cornish
Stricklen, Edward Griffith
Struckman, Paul Fred
Stuart, Victor Daniel
Swift, Jesse Herbert
Swift, Philip Stanley
Taylor, Albert Enri
Taylor, Charles Harold
Taylor, Clement Edwin
Taylor, Guy
Thompson, Edward Anderson
Thompson, Thomas Jeffries
Thomson, James Madder
Tonkin, James Herbert
Tonjes, Henry Christian L.

60i

Torley, Harry George
Tregoning, Herbert Henry
Tregoning, Wm. ·Parsons
Trousdale, Otto J.
Tutt, Richard William
Valentine, Lincoln Garfield
Wall, Charles Julius
Ward, Herbert Merritt
Weeks, Anson Button
Welch, Wm. Carroll
Wells, Darius Wm.
Wells, Frederick Coffing
Wentworth, Samuel Augustus
Whitehead, Rupert
Whiting, Frederick James
Whitmore, Campbell Dunlap
Whitney, Hamlin Avery
Williams, Franklin H.
Williams, Herbert Lerenzo
Williams, I vor George
Williams, John Ellis P.
Williams, Phillip
Williston, Thomas Allan
Wilson, Oliver Thomas
Winchell, Calvin Smith
Wollaston, Thomas Allan
Wood, James Burris
Wood, John William
Wylie, David Bruce
Young, Charles Clinton
Younglove, Harry
-391

DIED:
Wells, Herbert Arthur

Wyndham, Arthur Cherrington
Anguermuende, William Christian

~OSTER

608

ROSTER

PALESTINE LODGE, No. 351.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Joseph Stevens, Master,
Samuel Wakeling, Chaplain,
70S Security Bldg.
Paul Hyney, Senior Dea~on, .
Frank Albert Hamilton, Sen. Ward ;, Johnson Atkinson, Junior Deacon,
Harry Melville Cain, Junior Warden, Thomas Cook Jones, Marshal,
Albert Charles Winter, Treasurer,
Arthur Bert Copeland, Stnuard
Elmer Ellsworth Bradley, Secretary, Frederick Thomas Hughes, Steward,
1434 E. Adams St.
Jacob Edward Goetz, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Burnell, Chas. Smith
Ackland, James Leonard
Burress, Frank Floyd
Akey, James Vernon
Cain, Andrew Henry
Alger, Duncan
'Uain, . Harry Melville
Allen, Ethan Ray
Carter, Ray Alden
Alm, Arvid Gothard
Casey, Walter P.
Ashby, James Charles
Chambers, Joseph Fleischman, P. M.
Atkinson, Johnson
Chase, Bert Conwell
Bagnall, Albert Edwaru
·Church, Reuben Sylvester
Baish, Henry Luther
Clark, Ashford .Woodward
Ballard, Arthur Wm.
Clark, Thomas Tedforu
Bandy, John Charley
Clay, Ernest Byron
Bartlett, Morris Oliver G.
Clifford, Chas. Edward
Baskerville, Charles Albert
Cohen, Abraham Louis
Bawtenheimer, Chas. Lanson
Cole, William E.
Beck, W 11rren Penn
Cologne, Knox Mason
Beckwith, Fred Elmer
Colwell, Louis Trowbridge
Best, Jas. T.
Cook, Charles Henry
Black, Frederick Rufus
Cooper, Frank Scarles
Blott, William Leander
Cooper, William Wallace
Blum, Solomon
Conrad, Hartwig
Bockwny, George Henry
Copeland, Arthur Bert
Boesen, Peter Thorwald
Corum, William Thompson
Bolton, Albert Edward
Corwin, Harley George
Bosserman, David Wernick, P . M.
Couser, Richard
Bradley, Elmer Ellsworth
Curtis, George Elmer
Brazil, Manuel Fred 'k
Danielson, Anton
Brock, George
Davies, Chas. Edward
Brown, Frederick Henry
Davis, Jas. Sullivan
Bryant, William Franklin

Denton, Willard Ernest
Dickey, Artnur .M.eou
Downie, Emerson J arnes
Dunham, James Almond
Eastin, Ernest Eugene
Eddy, George Sigel
Eddy, Joseph Roderick
Elwell, William Henry
Emerson, William Albee
Evans, Charles William
Fair, John Adrian
Faust, Mahlon Ellsworth
Feller, George Willard
Flammer, Paul Ernest
Flynn, Wm. Charles
Fondersmith, Addes Henry
Foster, Edward Ware
Fox, Willard Henry
Fretz, Edwin Henry
Fullerton, George Herbert
Gage, Ernest Dow
Goetz, Jacob Edwa;rd
Goodrich, Edwin G.
Gordan, Isaac Carl
Gowen, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Grant, James Cameron ·
Gray, Albert
Green, George Simons
Greenwood, Albert
Haas, Walter Francis, P. M.
Hamerlund, John Peter Nelson
Hamilton, Frank Albert
Haughton, Albert Scott
Hart, Howard Edward
Harwood, Robert John
Havens, Edward Morto11
Havil, Fred H.
Heard, Isaac Stephen
Henck, Ellery Longshore
Henderson, Andrew
Heywood, Clay Henry
Hodges, Thorn.as Victor
Holm, Geo. Hanson
Holstrom, John Anton ·
39

Horne, William Anthony
Houstoll, Edwin Lee
Huber, Julius Edmund, p, M.
Hughes, Charles Ed.
Hughes, Fred 'k Thomas
Hunt, John E.
Hunter, Harry Tracy
Hunter, Howar<l Moore
Hutton, Chas. Preston
Hyney, Paul
lnman, William Charles
Irish, Edwin Aubre
,Jaffe, Harry Edward
Jensen, Alfred Theo.
Jepson, Arthur Lucius
Jepson, John Augustus
Johnson, Alfred B.
Johnson, Charles
Johnson, Frank L.
Johnson, Emil Esaias
Johnson, Swan Peter
Jones, Thos. Cook
Jordan, J as. Henry
Jordan, Zachariah Thomas
Judkins, Louis Crane
Johnston, John Story
Kelly, Charles Leonard
Kemp, Robert Walter
Kleinkauf, Samuel Ernest
Knoll, Theodore
Korblum, Morris Samuel
Kreider, Samuel Leander
Kuhfus, Wm. Aloysius
Lacher, Lee James
Leibrock, John
Leighton, William Henry
Lloyd, Henry John
Lowe, Perry Benton
Maas, Otto Martin Adolf
Manhard, Roy Stanley
Marks, Jasper Glenn
Marshall, Clifford David
Martin, ,Jesse R.
Mason, Edwin Horatio

609

610

ROSTER

ROSTER

Maxcy, William George
McCabe, Henry Debasco, P. M.
McConnell, Otis Levy
McCue, Jas. Benton
McDonald, Daniel Joseph
McDonald, Frank Virgil
McDonalcl, Thomas Joseph, P. :M.
McDonaugh, Sidney Roy
McKinnie, Frederick Campbell
Mears, Benjamin Franklin
Meudell, George Herkimer
Metzger, Otto Charles
Miller, Arthur Edward
Miller, Edmund Alexander
Miller, Frank Eugene
Miller, Thomas N.
Millsap, Edmund Moise
Millsap, Sylvester
Morrison, William Ross
Morton, Charles Edward
Nathan, Morris
Neel, John Henry
Negley, Adelbert Miles
Nicholson, Thomas Jessup
Nickol, Geo. Samson
Nielson, Christian
Overell, Walter Edward
Owens, Charles W.
Parsons, Arthur Clair
Partridge, Harvey
Patterson, George Robert
Pedgrift, George
Pennington, Norman Augustut
Pepping, Charles William
Perine, Stephen Henry
Peterson, Anton
Peterson, Louis Nathaniel
Piepgrass, James Peter
Pind, Nels
'Porter, Ralph Briggs
Power, Charles Ora
Raymaker, William Arnold
Reed, Burt Warren
Reinen, Otto Frank, P. M.
Rich, Levi D.

Richards, Charles Albert
Richardson, Fred Thomas
Roberts, Richard Gorony
Robertson, Carl
Robertson, He~luf Richard
Robertson, Victor Roiger
Robey, Floyd Franklin
Rollins, Fred Aaron
Rodriguez, Oberlin
Roy, John Grant
Rubine, Benj. Jacob
Russill, Henry Davis
Ruston, Ernest Samuel
Sams, Peter W.
Samuel, Frederick David
Scherer, Oliver Franklin
Seeliger, Moritz
Sharp, George W.
Sherer, Robert
Shoemaker, Walter Phinny
Sledd, Warner Alfred, P. :M.
Smith, Edward Henry
Smith, William Henry
Sonderegger, Arthur L.
Sporleder, Robert
Sparks, Charles Orvill
Starr, Elmer Moses
Stevens, Harry Wilbur
Stead, James Robert
Stevens, Joseph
Stevens, Mark
Stewart, John A. C.
Stoddard, Frank Wilcox
Strouse, Louis Alva
Sumption, Frederick. Albert
Suter, John
Tate, Albert Kyle
Taylor, John Lees
Thacker, Frank L.
Thom, Sewell Watson
Thomas, Ernest G.
Thompson, Frank Slusher
Thwaites, Mark
Tinklepaugh, Ray Deverno
Tinsley, James Daniel

Townsend, Geo. Albert
· Trapani, Vincent S.
Trumble, Milan James
Tubbs, Perley Clifton
Tucker, Arthur Percey
Tucker, Edwin Burke
Tuttle, Jesse
Tuttle, Robert Payson, P. M.
Tyler, Martin Rich
Van Osten, James Wight
Van Vranken, David Able
Wakeling, Samuel
Watkins, Albert Berline
Way, Macy Thomas
Welsh, Clifford Durham

Ehlers, Peter William
Hancock, Walter Edward
Hoagland, Robert Stout
Jurdon, Albert Leonard

. 611

Wheeler, Arthur James, P. M.
Wherry, Daniel Van Atta
Wilson, Lawrence Grover
Wilson, R. Walter
Wilson, Thumns Leonidas
Winter, Albert Charles
Wolf, Christian
Wolfe, Frank Eddy
W omersley, George Frederick
Woodworth, Theo. Whitingham
Worline, Oliver Cline
Wride, Frank Geerge
Wright, Thomas H .
Yount, Charles Edwin
Zimmerman, Joseph E .
-266
WITHDRAWN:
Judd, Marvin DeLos
Owen, Theodore Powell
Reitz, Frank Aaron Walter
Waggoner, Charles Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kessler, George Henry
Barkeville, Bruno
Califan, Ferdinand
Smith, John Clayton

Carter, Marion Davis

DIED:
Scullin, Harry Robbins

SUNSET LODGE, No. 352.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles Comity.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Hugh Gill Shaug, Master,
William Martin Martin, Chaplain,
Care Edison Elec. Co., L. A.
Mark Kirkby, Senior Deacon,
Christian Nelson Bank, Sen. Ward., Charles Andrew Blair, Jun. Deacon,
Lewis Ludlow Haight, Jim. Warden, Charles William Gunnison, Marshal,
Rollie Webster Miller, Treasurer,
Gideon Wells (;ranger, Steward,
Dale Owen Peet, S ecretary,
Hobart. Marshall Thatcher, Steward,
1428 Milford St., Glendale.
Eugene Leonard Titus, Tyler.

J

612 .

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Burrows, Robert Hughston
Ackworth, William
Burson, Albert Lewis
Adair, John S.
Cagle, Arthur Cordell
Aisenpries, John Fred
Capeto, James Orin
Aitken, Paul Benj.
Carter, Frank Edward
Armstrong, Ambrose Harvey
Carter, John Maurice
Ashmore, Charles Grant
Carter, Paul Courtney
Baker, Milo Arnet
Chamberlain, John Joseph
Ballard, Earl Blakeley
Chapman, James
Ballard, Francis Albert
Chase, Elwood Norton
Bank, Charles
Chase, Ralph Arthur, P. M.
Bank, Christian Nelson
Chase, Taylor
Bank, Ludwig Nelson
Chesworth, Joseph Reginald
.Barclay, Henry Augustus
Clark, John Beaver, P. M.
Battelle, Ernest Leslie
Clark, Lawrence Garrison
Beauchamp, Hiram Frederick
Beresford, Charles Tristrain
Clarke, Walter Thomas
Clemens, James Henry
Biggs, Elmer Le Roy
Clemens, Nicholas Ernest
Blair, Charles Andrew
Colby, William Wallace
Blair, Edward Stephen
Conlee, Monroe Harold
Blair, Luther Reed
Conkling, James L.
Blocker, Wm. Edgar
Connell, John Francis
Bonenberger, Wilbur Earl
Cooper, Daniel W.
Bones, Fred Wells
Copeland, Glen Hall
Booth, Francis
Courser, Charles Henry
Bovard, Joseph Henderson
Craig, Gavin William
Bower, Niles Frank
Crandall, Edward A.
Bowler, John Dunlap
Crego, Claude Miles
Brand, Louis
Crouch, George Andrew
Brasher, Horace Clyde
Crow, John Chai:ming
Bridges, Charles Henry, P. M.
Cunningham, Wm. Price
Bridges, Charles William
Danbury, Albert M.
Bridges, George Horton
Davies, James Lloyd
Bright, Miller Artemus
Davis, Herman Todd
Brin, Alfred Nelson
Deeble, William Davie
Brock, Edward Ivory
De La Matyr, Nathan Henry
Brome, Harrison Crosby
Delavan, George Edward, Jr., P. M.
Brouse, Allen McDonald
Dellamore, William
Brufl.at, Martin
Denison, Roy Oliv~r
Brumbacker, Julius Ernest
Dillon, Tom Augustus
Buchanan, John
Dodd, Nathan Thomas
Burgess, Frederick William
Donze, Leon Jacque
Burke, Samuel Edgerton, P. M.
Dorland, Harley Bee
Burkhart, Henry W.

Dossell, John
Dow, George Rufus Shetler
Downes, Alfred Jonothan
Duncan, George Nolan
Dunn, George LaFayette
Durfee, Rafael Burke
Eccles, Cloudy Morning
Eitelgoerge, William Frederick
Elder, Earl Bayard
Eley, Allison
Ericson, Knute Napoleon
Faithfull, Claud Augustus
Faulkner, Alfred Granville
Fechtig, John Freanor
Finlay, James
Fiorini, Francis
Fishburn, Warren Perry
Ford, Harry Derwood
Foultz, Joseph Long
Fox, William Poland
Franken, Robert
Frick, Moses Light
Fritsche, Chester Henry
Frost, Howard
Fuicks, David
Fulmis, Marin Derwood
Gaddie, Henry Alvin
Garland, Fred Aug~stine
Garver, William Merrell
Gonnerman, Arthur Wm.
Goodrich, Henry Fred 'k
Gilbert, John Robert
Gillespie, John Wagner
Graham, Owen Elie
Granger. Gedeon Wells
Graul, Harry Silas
Gray, Samuel
Gregory, George W.
Gripp, Edwin Adelbert
Gripp, Uris Robert
Gunnison, Charles William
Guthrie, Robert Allen
Haight, Lewis Ludlow
Hanson, Charles Frederick
Hanson, Gotfred

Hardage, James Madison
Harding, John Brent
Hardy, Fred
Hamish, William
Hassad, Ira Francis
Hastings, Oliver Allen
Hatch, William Kinersley
Haynes, Elmer Eugene
Hearn, John Walter
Heinecke, William Barker
Helms, Wm. Thomas
Henderson, William
Hicks, Virgil Escho
Higham, Arthur Clarence
Hillman, Delmar Orrin
Hillman, Edward William
Hodges, Jonathan
Holzman, Alexander Abraham
Hooks, Daniel C.
Hopkins, Charles Henry
Rubner, William Fred
Huggins, Walter Leslie
Hunt, John Edwin
Hutchinson, Geo. Miller
Iggulden, Walter
Iles, Harry
Ivens, Frederick Ballard
James·, Wm. L.
James, William Perry
Jenkins, Richard Willett
Jensen, Henry Christian
Jens en, Walter Fred 'k
Jensen, William Louis
Johnson, John
Johnson, John Dedrick
Jones, David E.
Jones, Richard Gordon
Jordon, Leander Richard
Kelley, William Pliney
Kelsey, Dean Stanley
Kelsey, James Henry
Kelsey, Ralph Henry
Kelso, Charles Hugh.
Kelso, Thaddesis Philander
Kimball, Duane Appleton

613

614

Kirkby, Mark
Klitten, Karl Andrais
Knox, Albert Jerome
Koeniger, Edward John
Lackland, Norman
Lacroix, John Francis
Lagro, Knute
Latham, Charles Albert
Lerrigo, Francis Richard
Lerrigo, George
Lenke, Francis Marion, Jr.
Lepoids, Paul Emile
Lewis, Edward James
Logan, Walter Herbert
Lo7iier,, Howard Albert
Lutts, James Everett
Macdonald, James Enon
Manchester, Frank Leon
Marsh, Reese Bradford
Martin, Le Roy
Martin, William W.
Matthews, Harry Edwin
Matthews, Wickli~e
McCune, Leroy Verne
McDonald, George Washington
McGuire, Martin Samuel
McKelvey, James Arthur
McLain, Emmett Raleigh
McLaughlin, William F.
McLeod, John Munro
McVicar, James Wm.
Mercer, Edgar
Mensel, Charles Henry
Miller, Charles Henry
Miller, Chas. Otto
Miller, Guy James
Miller, Orroce Vernon
Miller, Rollie Webster
Miller, Wm. Avery
Miles, Geo. Francis
Minton, Edward Dunne
Mister, Lloyd Holland
Moeller, Albert .Herbert
Moore, Charles Allen
Moore, Fred Badger

ROSTER
Morris, Fred 'k Wm.
Morrisey, Leon Frank
Morgan, Charles Thomas
Morgan, Don De Witt
Morris, Charles Hensley S.
Mort, Albert Cliffton
Moses, Raymond Ivan
Murdock, Louis, P. M.
Murphy, Frank E.
Murray, Alex. Leslie
Musser, Roy Robert
Myers, Algernon David
Nelson, Alfred
Neustadt, Jacob
Newberry, Frank John
Nikievich, Radosau Nikola
Nutt, Cris
Nye, Berthold Max
Ordway, Frederick Marques
Orlijan, Samuel
Ormston, Harry John
Osborne, Fred Wm.
Osmun, Sidgewick Ziba, P. M.
Osmun, Silas Cook, P. M.
Ostrom, Harry Mapes
Otto, Fred Wellington
Patrio, Charles Nelson
Peachy, Fredarick Stoddard
Peet, Dale Owen, P. M.
Peters, Clifton
Pierce, Frederick Eugene
Pollard, Earl Royal
Prior, Arthur Havelock
Quist, Claus August
Ramsey, George James
Rand, Clinton, DeWitt
Rawling, Wm. James
Reagan, John Joseph
Redfern, Edmund Austin
Reed, Austin McPherson
Reed, Morton Crew
Rhodes, John Albert
Rice, Broce Viers
Riggs, Eugene Albert
Riley, Daniel Pike

ROSTER
Sutton, Roy Ira
Roberts, John Ernest
Swayer, Edmund Ogden, Jr.
Rodgers, Harry Day
Templeman, William
Rogers, Lawrence Lavern
Thatcher, Hobart Marshall
Rommel, John Calvin
Thomas, Orsen Theo.
Ross, Percy Wallace
Thompson, Ashley Spencer
Rutledge, George Edward
Tilden, William Frederick
Sargent, Edgar Harvey
Timmons, Henry
Sawyer, Edmuncl Ogden
Titus, Eugene Leona.rd
Schaefle, John Martin
Toland, Geo. Bernard
Schilling, Frank Charles
Townsend, Elisha Waters
Scott, Alfred James, Jr.
Trail, John William
Sealas, Corbley L.
Troughber, Wm. Francis
See, John Warren
Truitt, Burton Hezlip
Seivert, Geo. Washington
Upp, George B.
Sharanac, Michel Jerry
Van Fleet, Joseph Charles
Shaug, Hugh Gill
Vaughan, Chas. Talom
Sheppard, Arthur Leon
Von Elm, John Henry
Shirey, Francis Marion
Von Weber, George
Siemer, Henry
Wachtel, Wm. Henry
Simons, Nathan
Wall, Wm. Henry
Singer, John
Ward, George Melvin
Singtelon, D. Arnold
White, Harry Bradish
Smailes, Joseph H.
White, Laertes Tayler
Smiley, Arnold Bennett
White, Raymond A,
Smith, Cyrus Donald
Whitice, Robert Doll
Smit!r, George Loomis
. Willard, Arthur Ga.y
Snyder, Aaron
Willy, Marion Francis
Sook, Justus Frederick
Williams, Edwin Morrill, P. M.
Spangler, David Etherington
Wilson, Frank
Stafford, James
Wilson, Oliver Samuel
Stafford, James Gardner
Wiseman, Abraham
Stinchfield, Herbert Colfax
Young, James Holden
Stobo, Isaac Albert
Ziegler, Rayder James
St. Pierre, Zenas W.
Sutherland, David Munroe, P. M. Zimmerman, George W.

615

' '~

-335

Brasher, John Russell

WITHDRAWN:
·•cox, William Ledgerwood
Farmer, Edward Lewis

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Stokes, Robert
Thompson, Ashley Spencer

Brasher, William Floyd
l'latworthy, William Eveleigh

616

ROSTER
EXPELLED:
Kirkpatrick, John Reid

Cole, Edwin Augustus
•McEndree, William

DIED:
Rogers, Elliott Stacey
Rommel, Samuel Edwarrl
*Snow, Seward Ramsey

Hunt, Horice Edward
Hunt, Rolland Charles
Jackson, Walter Hunt, P. M.
Johnston, Stephen
Lehman, Max
Lehmkuhl, Chas. F. Christian
Mann, Joseph
Mann, Robert
Marx, Joseph Sidney
Marx, Sidney Straus
McCullough, Henry
McDonald, Frederick
McDonald, Ralph Ernest
McKenzie, William Berry, P. M.
McKinley, Samuel Stuart
Mendelsohn, Philip N.
Page, Ernest H.
Patterson, Charles Adam
Pfeiffer, William Jennings
.Pfeiffer, George, P. M.

..

•Affiliated during the year.

PINOLE LODGE, No. 353.
Pinole, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Stephen ] ohnston, Master,
William Berry McKenzie, Chaplain,
Pinole. Cal.
William Louis Hansen, Sen. Deacon,
Henry McCullough, Senior Warden, Frederick Addison Sill, Jun. Deacon,
Edward Christian Ebsen, Ju11. Ward., William Campbell Gerrish, Marsflal,
Edward Wade Robinson, Treasurer, Thomas Bernardo Fernandez, Stew.,
John Warren Townes, Secretary,
Theodore W. Woy, Steward,
Pinole, Cal.
Emil Bleuler, Tyler.

Bacon, William Thomas
Barrett, John Peter
Barrett, William Henry
Bermingham, John, Jr.
Bleuler, Emil
Brandt, Frederick John
Carr, Edward Moon
Catlett, Theo. Scott, P. M.
Chaquette, Ephram Charles
Cooper, Clinton Clifford
Davies, Thomas
Downer, Edward M.
·Downing, Fred Parsons
Ebson, Edward Christian
Ellerhorst, Christopher
Ellerhorst, Henry Herman
Engelbret, Niles Swenson

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Enloe, Joseph Valley, P. M.
Evans, Levi
Ewing, George
Fernandez, Thomas Benito
Fraser, George Whittier
Fraser, John Alexandor
Gerrish, William Campbell
Grant, Jame9 Jackson
Greenfield, Abraham, P. M.
Hall, John Charles Fremont, P. M.
Hamilton, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Hansen, Wm. Louis
Hanson, James Wm.
Hanson, William
Hitch, Abraham
Holiday, Charles Hiram
Horne, George

Daniels, Fred Hugo
Emery, Elliott G.

Piquet, Joseph Waters
Poinsett, Howard B.
Race, Albert A.
Rice, DeWitt Talmage
Robison, Edward Wade, P. M.
Rufi', Carl Frederick
Sharp, Sank Vance
Shaw, John Stuart
Sill, Frederick Addison
Stephenson, Frank Capers
Stevens, Brainard Wyman
Swenson, Andrew John
Thode, Rudolph Nicolas
Townes, John Warren
Van Prooyn, Cornelius
Van Prooyen, Harlert
Viano, Bernarto
Walker, George Cleveland
Woy, Theodore W.

WITHDRAWN:
Hayes, Phineas Durkee
McDee, James T.
Prentice, William Judson

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Downer, James Byron
Harris, William W.
Engel, Otto Herman
Murphy, Raymond Cornelius

Kemline, Ludwig

G17

DIED:
Mann, William H.

-73

618

ROSTER

PRESIDIO LODGE, No. 354.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masomc Temple.
OFFICERS:

William Joseph Weitzenberg, Master, Herman Locks, Chaplain,
3579 18th St., S. F.
John Henry Wellmann, Sen. Deac.,
John Berthold Wuersching, S. War., Johnson S. B. Smith, Jun. Deacon,
John Edward Butterfield, Jun. Ward., Robert Alexander Ritchie, Marshal,
Andrew Jackson Vining, Treasurer, Calvin Salvatore Grande, Steward,
Benjamin Loring Hesseltine, Sec'ty., Arthur C. Winslow, Steward,
640 Eddy Street.
Frank George Watson, Tyler.

Ackerman, Harry William
Adams, Percy Townend
Allen, George William
Altvater, Wm. Frederick
Andornetti, Paul
Ashton, John Gerffey
Baker, Thomas Leonard
Baldwin, Marshall Shires
Barber, Harry Amos
Barker, Henry
Barker, Robert Wm.
Batcher, John Henry
Bawden, Charles Edgar
Becker, John George
Bessett, Carlton Henry
Bemmerer, Henry August
Bertram, Geo. A.
Blanchard, Cortland J.
Blauer, Walter Maynard
Boivin, Louis Edmond, P. M.
Borges, J o8eph Fearney
Bouick, William Hood
Bowes, Alfred
Bowley, Argel Levere
Boxton, Charles Wynell
Boxton, George Wynell
Boyd, William James

MEMBERS:
Bridgeford, Frederick Garrett
Brodersen, Wm. Edwin
Brown, August Walter
Burt, .Bimjamin Walter
Burt, William Henry
Butterfield, John Ed.
Butterworth, John Barlow
Caldwell, Samuel
Caler, Frederick Edward
C'..ampana, Pietro Sebaatiu
Campbell, Archibald
Carson, George Washington
Carswell, William Ross
Charleton, Reginald Earl
Cheney, Clarence Maxwell, P . M.
Clarke, Wm.
Cobb, George Douglas
Coggins, Herman Appleton
Coggins, Raymon!1 Boynton
Cole, Fak William, Jr.
Cooke, George Warren
Cooley, Aaron Riley
Cowden, James Bowes
Crowley, David, Jr.
Culver, Walter Henry
Damon, Henry Jacob
Daniels, Richard Earl

ROSTER
Davenport, Frank Benjamin
Davis, Roy Hartwell
Denke, Edmund Herman
Dillon, Charles Monroe
Dittman, Frank
Drysdale, Alfred Lewis
Dye, Marcus Brutus
Emerson, Charles Mason
Emerson, George Waldo
Engle, Howard Sterling
Engle, Walter J.
·
Epperson, Sidney Roswell
Ericsson, Joseph Edwara
Ernst, Carl Frederick
Estes, William Edward
Feundeling, Louis W.
Fisher, Charles Douglas
Fleischer, Ernest Custer
Franzen, Frederick
Fuson, Amandus Ulysses
Gallaghe;r, Hugh Patrick
Gallagher, Joseph
Garzoli, Frank Albert
Gaskill, Varney William, P. M.
Gawthorne, Fred 'k. Arthur
Gibbs, Harry Throckmorton
Glarner, Arnold Henry
Glennie, John Burke, P. M.
Gomersal, Fergus
Goman, John Geo.
Graham, John Waldron
Grant, John Corson
Grandi, Calvin Salvator
Green, Richard Myrick
Greenwell, James Oliver
Grier, Robert Arthur, P. M.
Grunig, George
Gwinn, William Madison
Hall, Merton Moody
Hardy, Frederick Alden
Hartter, Alfred Max
Hartwick, Fred ' k M.
Harwood, Albert Oliver
Haslehurst, Oscar Alvinza
Hatter, Joseph Alex.

Helgesen, Nelson Rodvelt
lielms, George Leo
Hemmer, Henry
Herbst, A.
Hesseltine, Benjamin Loring
Hilbert, Frederick Henry
Hobro, Alfred Watson
Hobro, Frederick Sylvain
Hobro, James Louis
Hobro, Lester Frank
Hobro, William Dovey, Jr.
Holt, Clarence Pitman
Homburg, Martin Julius
Hu1T, William Conrad
Huggins, Walter Samuel
Ingermann, Albert Lewis
Jackson, .Frank Mason, P. M.
Jackson, Frank Ringo
Jacobsen, Christian Theo. lTed.
Jansson, George August
Jensen, Royal Theodor
Jensen, Theo cl ore Rasmus
.Johnson, Arthur William
Johnson, Coford
Johnson, Eric Ragnor
Johnson, Otto Bernhard
Johnson, Thomas Arthur
Kelly, George Francis
Kelly, Francis Patrick
Kelly, John Harold
Kinsman, John Raymond
Klute, Henry Louis
Knight, Carlton R.
Knowles, Ned Lewis
Koch, Walter Valentine
Kreft, Henry
Kroger, Frederick Claus
Krngar, Charles Frederick
Kunder, John
Kyle, Joseph
Lackeman, Charles Emil
Langpaap, Otto Bismark
Lauterback, Edmund
Lear, Freilerick, Jr.
Lear, Herbert Sharmon

619

620

Le Crosse, Felix Bergamont
Leonard, John Vaughan
Leu, Matthias Adolph J.
Locke, Frank Stanwood
·Locks, Carl Henry
Locks, George Herman
Locks, Herman, P. M.
Lomas, James
Long, Charles Henry
MacPherson, John
Manchester, Paul Henry
Marshall, Warren Gove
Martin, Jesse Chester
Mason, Arthur Calvin
Mason, Frank
Mason, Paul WillialJl
Mathewson, Thos. Henry
McCormick, Robert
McGowan, Robert
McMillan, Alfred Ernest
Miller, George Herman
Mohr, Rudolph
Molin, Victor Rinhold
Moore, George Ransome
Moore, John
Morcom, Fred Nicholas
Morrice, Thomas Brown
Morse, George William, Jr.
Moyle, James William
McKevitt, Frank
McKevitt, Hugh King, P. M.
McKevitt, Thomas Eugene
Nelson, Charles A.
Obradovich, Metar
Obradovich, Nicholas
Orchard, Seldon
Paeffle, Eugene Emil Paul
Payne, Clyde Bylvenus
Pinney, Lewis Owen
Plowman, Walter
Prechtel, George Philipp
Radcliff, Goorge
Rader, George Oliver
Reed, Warren Stedman
Reimers, Louis

ROSTER

ROSTER
Remensperger, Herman Walter
Rice, Albert Everett
Ritchie, Robert Alex.
Roberts, Leonard Vance
Rolls, Edwin Lacey
Roussel, William Herbert
Sandy, George Howard
Scfiramm, Walter Charles
Schroder, Henry Andrew
Schuhmann, Anton Emil, P. M.
Schuhmann, August Max
Schuster, Karl Fred 'k
Sedgley, Harry Timothy
Sherman, William Albert, P. M.
Signor, Raphael E.
Smith, Francis Gilbert
Smith, Frank Edward
Smith, Johnson Scholl B.
Smith, Walter Egerton
Speers, William Alex.
Sresovich, John Nicholas
Stark, Thomas Alexander
Starling, Andrew John
Starr, Edward Charles
Steed, David Mark
Stein, George Walter
Stewart, John Gilman
Strand, William Francis
Strohmeier, Otto
Strome, Edward Bernard
Stuart, Charles Cameron
Teal, Eugene Bercher
Tellefsen, John Cornelion
Tennis, Henry Chris
Thomas, Alvin J.
Thomas, Coryedon Clark.
Thomas, Verlin C.
Thomason, Frank
Tidell, Andrew Gustaf, Jr.
Tippett, Thomas
Toye, William Osbourne
Trailer, Lewis Clinton, P. M.
Trezise, John Samuel
Trull, Charles Bert
Ubbe, Ludwig

Valdespino, Henry Carlos
Vane, Le Roy H.
Van Orden, Howard Lovell
Vaughan, William Weaver
Vining, Andrew Jackson
Walker, Charles William
Walker, George Henry, Jr.
Walker, Joseph Hamilton
Ward, Charles Henry
Watson, Frank George, P. M.
Watson, Kenneth
Wedekind, Frank F.
Weeks, John Francis

621

Weitzenberg, Joseph Francis
Weitzenberg, Wm. Fred. Jf>seph
Winslow, Arthur C.
Wellmann, Henry John
Wetzel, Theodore, Jr.
Wetzel, Theodore, Sr.
White, Henry James
Wilkinson, Eli J.
Williams, Ralph E.
Woodward, Horace
Wooley, George Alfred
Wuersching, John Barthold
-259

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Milton, Louis Bernhard
*Denke, August Reinhold
Smith, Fred Lawrence
Keator, Robert Stone
DeYoung, Irving A.
Lewis, Chester Owen
DIED:
Partridge, Newton Edgar
•Restored during the year.

HOLLYWOOD LODGE, No. 355.
Hollywood, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Edward Toberman, Master, Meredith Talmage Spencer, Chaplain,
6724 Hollywood Bldg.
Robert Roy Rankin, Senior Deacon,
Wilson Edward Woodward, S. W ., Edward William Fox, Junior Deacon,
William Wallace Aqderson, J. W., William Adam Meusch, Marshal,
George Gibson Greenwood, Treas., Dudley Frank Black, Steward,
Almor Reno Gates, Secretary,
Benjamin Franklin Sanford, Steward,
6756 Hollywood Bldg.
George Jarvis Graham, Tyler.

Adler, David
Alber, Herman
Allen, Russell Joseph
Aldritt, John Allen

j

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Charles
Anderson, William W.
Andrews, Clarence Carleton
Andrews, Howard

622
Armstrong, Ernest Kenneth
Baake, Herman Louis, P, M.
Hakman, Charlie Henry
Bardwell, Horatio John
Barnes, George Henry
Banes, James Killinger
Bartels, Arnold
Barter, Henry James
Beaman, Alex. Gaylord
Beesmyer, Gilbert H.
Beggs, Hugh Hardin
Berry, Bennett Burnett
Berry, Fieldon Marion
Bidwell, George Franklin
Black, Dudley Frank
Blette, Edward Henry
Blood, Chas. H.
Boag, Charles Edward, P. M.
Boehncke, George
Bradley, Samuel Haselett
Brower, Clarence Prime
Bynon, Frederick Silas, P. M.
Cammett, Ira Allen
Carlander,.Ernest Fred
Carroll, David McKenzie
Chamberlain, James B.
Chase, Chas. Reddington
Clark, Herbert F.
Clarke, Watts
Claussenius, Carl Henry
Clinch, Colin Noyes
Cole, George Watson
Coleman, John Winfred
Cook, James Tod
Cooks, Walter Cyrus
Crane, Ralph Cassius
Crissey, Charles A.
Culver, Marshall Stewart
Cushman, Herbert Wright
Daniels, Rollo Wilson
navirlson, Amstruther
Davies, Arthur Evan
Davis, Sylvester Byron
Day, John Pinkney, P. M.
Dennis, Oli'l'.er Perry

ROSTER

ROSTER
Desmond, Frank Conklin
Dick, John
Doty, Lambert Leroy
Douglass, Frank M.
Douglass, Frank Malcolm
Douglass, Joseph Montgomery
Dunlop, G.e orge Howard
Dunscomb, Jay Luther
Eastman, George Lockwood
Edwards, Benjamin Clarence
Ehlers, Paul Henry
Elliott, Edwin Windsor
Emery, Nathaniel Royal
Erwin, Alex. Rogers
Evans, John William
Exley, Fred George
Faber, Louis E.
Ferry, Francis Charles, P. M.
Ferry, Louis
Fife, Roderick Chalmers
Fiscus, Marshall D.
Fisher, Edison
Fobes, Royal Andrew
Fox, Edward William
Frese, Arthur
Frieburg, Carl A.
Tye, Homer L.
Frost, Lowell Chester
Gardner, Allan
Gates, Almon Reno
Gehrkins, William H.
Glass, Clement Studebaker
Glass, Edwin Marshall
Goodwin, Donald Phinney
Goodwin, Henry Pooley
Graham, George Jarvis
Grass, Joseph Fernand
Green, Jesse Benjamin
Greenwood, Geo. Gibson
Gregg, Lloyd William
Griffith, Percival Howard
Grove, Iredell Allen
Gulley, James M.
Haas, Charles E.
Hamilton, William

Hampton, Ellis Clark
Hance, Frank Webster
Hanna, George
Hanson, Harry Webster
Harowitz, Alexander
Harper, Benjamin William
Harratt, Edwin
Hazeltine, Paul Richard
Heigold, George Henry, Jr.
Heinig, Theo., P. M.
Hinckley, Guy Barton
Hoover, Frank Sheridan
Hopper, Wm. Henry
Howell, Clarence Walter
Howland, Frederic Charles
Hubbard, Joseph R.
Hunter, James Milo
Jackman, Florin B.
Jackson, Joseph Addison
Jackson, Walter Arnold
Jacobs, Benjamin Franklin
Jepson, Jacob
Johnson, Bernard Carl
Johnson, Guy G.
Jorgenson, J~hn Christian
Kennedy, Benjamin Edward
Kenner, Clayton W.
Kenyon, John Sickles
Kincaid, James Leslie
King, ErneRt Verne
Kirby, William Fishback
Kirkpatrick, Geo. Bertram
Kleinkauf, William Henry
Koehler, Charles Frederick
Knox, John
Kuhlman, Frederick August
Law, John Eugene
Leask, James
Letts, Arthur
Lingo, George, P. M.
Mackenzie, Marvin Lincoln
Mallette, Charles Ernest
Marsh, Howard E.
Martin, Robert Mead
Maxwell, John

May, Frederick William
McCabe, Herbert Louis
McConnel, William D.
McCoy, Lewis R.
McCray, Louis A.
McKee, Wm. Edgar
McNeely, Albert Dickson
Mead, William
Melcher, Howard Wash.
Mellinkoff, Henry
Mensch, Wm. Adam
Merrill, Albert Eugene
Merrill, Monroe E.
Miles, George B ishop
Miller, Edward William
Miller, Louis D.
Miller, William
Milner, Robert Virgin
Mish, Robert Coleman
Monson, Olaf
Moore, Ola
I
Morck, Thorvald
Morgan, Gordon Thomas
Morris, Frederic I.
Morton, Erle D.
Naff, Clarence Raymond
· Pates, Clarence
Palmer, Edwin Obacliab
Patterson, Gilbert Currie
Pearson, Raymond Yondale
Pedgrift, Samuel Ernest
Pierce, Charles Merritt
Postell, Phillip Smith
Priest, Charles Henry
Purdy, Ernest Ralph
Pursell, William Fox
Rankin, Robert Roy
Redden, Loring Alton
Redwine, Hiram Green
Reynolds, Wilfred T.
Rich, Sanford
Rodenhouse, Harry Edward
Rupp, John
Ryland, Edwin P.
Sanford, Benj. Franklin

ROSTER

624

Schaeffer, Arthur Bigelow
Schloesser, Alex. Rudolph
Schloesser, Alfred Guido R.
Schofield, Herbert
Shaw, William Herbert
Shoenhair, George John
Smith, Calvin W.
Smith, William Edward
Snodgrass, Walter F.
Soiland, Albert
Somers, William H.
Spalding, William Brockhurst
Spear, Charles Nathan
Spencer, Meredith Talmage, P. M.
Stadie, Rudolph R.
Stafford, James A.
Stamp, Edward Franklin
Steadman, John Judson
Stephens, Albert Lee
Stevenson, Gilbert Field, P. M.
Stith, Frederick Walker
Strong, Andrew M.
Strother, Wm. McCauley
Tanguy, George Frederic
Thayer, Oramel Franklin
Thompson, Frank Edgar
Techintin, Henry W.
Tibbot, John Wesley

Tindall, Wm. Francis
Toberman, Charles Ed.
Valdez, Alexander Aveline
Vickroy, Hugh Kennedy
Wabnitz, Louis
Walton, Frank M.
Warnecke, Carl Marie
Washburn, Harry Booth
Waterbury, James Edwin
Waugh, Lionel Morgan
Weaver, Frank Ray
Weddington, Fred Rutledge
Whipple, Henry White
White, William Calhoun
Whitley, Hobart Johnston
Wilcox, Julius Egbert
Willson, Frank Lamb
Wilson, Griffin W.
Wilson, Isaac Newton
Winnett, Percy Glenn
Winterer, Edward, P. M.
Withenbury, Chas. W.
Wolski, Chas. Nicholas
Wood, Charles Edward
Woodward, Nelson Ed.
Yoong, Moses
Young, Robert, P. M.

WITHDRAWN:
Harrison, Claude Eugene
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Knowles, Charles Michel
Thompson, Percy W.
Neary, Charles Edward
Wilkerson, Harry Douglas

Fife, Norman Thompson
•Affiliated during the year.

DIED:
*Strout, Daniel J.

625

ROSTER

MILL VALLEY LODGE, No. 356.
Mill Valley, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Henderson Cooke, Master, Frank Clinton Herrick, Chaplain,
Mill Valley, Cal.
Thomas Sidney Watters, S. Deacon,
Horace Coffin, Senior Warden,
Edwin Strong Merriman, l. Deacon,
Ludwig Clarence Koster, Jun. Ward. James George Saxon, Jr., Marshal,
Charles Harvey Huntoon, Treas.
Frederick Alex. Burden, Steward,
Leon Paul Van Atta, Sec.,
Charles Jacob Brockhoff, Steward,
Mill Valley, Cal.
Ezeri R. Nichols, Tyler.

-243

Ambrose, Oliver Stephens
Arnold, Wilhelm Fred 'k
Asmann, Adolph John
Baker, Warren Garfield
Barr, Robert Wm.
Becker, Christopher Henry
Becker, Philip Sheridan
Beirao, Manuel Peireira, Jr,
Benjamin, Harry Ream
Bostwick, Frank Fiske
Bremer, Bernard Christian
Brockhoff, Charles Jacob
Bronotte, Carl Frederick
Brown, Charles Leslie
Bunker, Edward Abel
Bunker, Herbert Harding
Burden, Frederick Alex
Burt, John
Burt, Samuel Murdoch, P, M.
Cappelmann, Oscar Cornelius
Carothers, Harrie William
Chase, James V1>rnon
Clark, Alfred Bernard
Cofer, Lorenzo Rich
Coffin, Alonzo, P. M.
Coffin, Horace
Cook, George Henderson
Cowper-Thwaite, Edwarrl
40

MEMBERS:
Cox, Joseph George
Cox, Walter
Creighton, Ralph Leith
De Lasaux, Percival James
Demmer, Mathew
De Sella, Leo
Donihue, Leon Mickle
Dorsey, Horace
Downs, Leonidas Windfield Scott
Draper, Terry Franklin
Eddy, Ralph Adair
Eisen, Edward George
Ensor, Henry Taylor
Evans, Ernest Albert
Findley, Frank Beatty
Finn, Charles Chamberlain
Finn, Robert Berkeley
Fleming, Willard Stephe11
Folger, Clinton, P. M.
Garcia, Manuel Rodgerb
Gardner, Casper J.
Gardner, Leslie Jacob
Gold, Edward Eugene
Gray, James Elihu
Gray, William Benson
Greaves, Thomas Travis, P. M.
Grindley, William Cecil
Guth, Henry

,

626

ROSTER

Haake, Henry Charles
Harlan, George Hillary, P. M.
harries, Julian Digby
Hartsough, David
Hoyden, Allen David
Helmore, Paul Algernon
Herrick, Frank Clinton
Heydenfeldt, Frederick Ochtreigh
Higgins, Frederick Ernest
Holmgren, Carl
Howard, George
Hunt, George Elliott
Huntoon, Charles Harvey
Rustad, Paul Ludwig
Jackson, Ernest Wedgwood
Janes, George Jenkins
Janes, Louis Lyman, P. M.
Johnson, Harold Sydney
Johnson, Harry Lee
Klyce, Harvey Asbury, P. M.
Koster, Ludwig Clarence
Lange, Mathias
LeBaron, Monte Ray
Lilyard, Frederick William
Linsley, Frederick Douglas
Locke, Allan
Lockwood, Frank E<lgar
Losh, Francis Adams
Mackenzie, Charles Fyfe
Mackey, Henry Julius
Manzer, Lonson Martin
Maxwell, George
Mazza, John Joseph
Melvin, Robert Luther
McConnell, Geo. Jae.
McLerran, Stanford Paul
Merriman, Edwin Strong
Mills, John
Morrow, William Grant
Newlands, James, Jr., P. M.
Nichols, Ezeri R.
Nicolaisen, Nicolai Rasmus
Norris, John Floyd
Nye, Douglas Arthur
Noyes, Ira Ernest

Orr, Merle Sumner
Parcell, Charles Henry
Peters, Charles Henry Fred.
Petersen, John
Pritchard, Alfred Henry
Pryor, Joseph Henry
Pryor, Perey Church
Pulliam, Elery Claude
Ramsey, Edward Clarence
Regan, Henry
Ritchie, William Lloyd
Robertson, William Andrew
Roh:, Raymond James
Runyon, Charles Francis
Runyon, Frederick Francis
Saxton, James Geo., Jr.
Sehaubel, Elmer Henry
Sehlingman, John Fred
Belwood, Fred'k Wm. Gordon, P. M.
Seymour, Kent Jarvis Chase, P. M.
Shapley, Arthur Samuel
Shaw, Albert Victor
Shaw, Clarence Reginald
Shaw, Frederic Grant
Soderman, John Edwin F..
Sommer, Francis Joseph
Staples, Melvin
Stevens, Harry Osborn
Stocker, Charles Ellis
Stone, Wm. Samuel
St. John, Chauncey Milton
Struby, Carl Jacob
Stubergh, Otto H1rnry
Thomas, William Edward
Thomas, William James
Thomsen, Daniel Webster
Treat, Archibald Jennings
Urquhart, George Archibald
Urquhart, George Archibald, Jr.
Van Atta, Leon Paul
Verdellet, Vietor Leon
Wachs, Lionel
Ward, Roy Culver
Wall, Charles Joseph
Watters, Thomas Sydney

ROSTER
W esteott, Harry Blake
Wetherell, Charles Elton
Whitcomb, Bonner
Wilson, Robert Archie

Bush, Alfred William

627

Wootten, John Edward
Wray, Alban Ernest
Wright, Joseph
Yost, Nicholas Peter

-154

WITHDRAWN:
Williams, Robert Barker
DIED:
Crumpton, Hezekiah John

BUENA PARK LODGE, No. 357.
Buena Park, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

,

OFFICERS:

Charles Lincoln McComber, Master, David William Hasson, Chaplain,
Buena Pllrk, Cal.
Samuel Durbin Winters, Sen. Dcac.,
Clifton Leroy Miller, Senior Ward., William Edgar Tice, Junior Deac.,
Albert Sidney Feagan, Junior Ward., Eugene Caldwell Cady, Marshal,
Arthur Leslie Bennett, Treasurer,
Howard' Hugh Haggarty, Steward,
Isaac DeLoit Jaynes, Secretary,
James Watson, Steward,
Buena Park, Cal.
Samuel William Little, Tyler.

Angell, Edgar Edward, P. M.
Bennett, Arthur Leslie
Bennis, Karl V.
Bishop, James William
Busby, Burrel
Cady, Eugene Caldwell, P. M.
Cawthon, Chas. Richard
Cawthon, John Clayborn
Cawthon, Merton Chesley, P. M.
Damron, Charles Lee
Domecq, Louis
Durgan, George Albert
Ellison, Elbert Ralph
Feagan, Albert Sidney
Haggarty, Howard Hugh
Hall, Jesse Clark

MEMBERS :
Hasson, David William, P. M.
Hasson, Edwin Galen
Hansen, Henry
Huft', Samuel
Jaynes, I saac DeLoit, P. M.
Kellenberger, John, Jr.
Kidder, Clarence Arthur
Landell, Gilbert Stuart
Lawrence, Howard Chesi.er
Lewis, Roger Gregory
J.,ittle, Samuel William
Mann, Charles Homer
Mann, Robert Carlos
MeAllep, Warren Harold
McAllep, William Reed
McComber, Charles Lincoln

628

ROSTER

ROSTER

McGuire, Thomas
Miller, Clifton Leroy
Miller, George Barter
Milliken, James Emanuel
Newcomb, Dudley Cameron
Osborn, Maurice Nelson
Perry, John Sargent, P. M.
Perry, Oliver Hazzard
Smith, Sidney Charles
Street, Jonas Philander

Taylor, William Saunders
Thomas, George Isaac
Tice, William Edgar
Walker, Simeon Oglesby, P. M.
Warren, Henry Elias
Watson, James
Whitaker, George Andrew
Whitaker, James Henry, P. M.
Winters, Samuel Durbin, P. M.
-51

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Morgan, Ralph Herbert

GOLDEN STATE LODGE, No. 358.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first l'hursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harry Eugene Betz, Master,
Theodore Strangman, Chaplain,
124 N. Kenwood Ave., Glendale. Clarence Leslie Robinson, S. D.,
Charles Edmund Gockley, S. W.,
Frank Sutherland Hutton, J. D .,
Russell B. La Fontaine, J. W.,
Jay Walter Hanby, Marshal,
Joseph Grove Moodie, Treasurer,
Clarence George Weisbrod, Steward,
Charles Lawrence Wilde, Secretary, Frank Alfred Hartley, Steward,
232 S. Broadway.
James Frederick Greenough, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adler, Frank Marks
Benford, George Arthur
Bennett, Nelson D.
Alberti, Robert Arminio
Beebe, George Brewster
Anderson, Charles George
Arnold, Ernest Willard
Berres, Benjamin
Ashley, Chester Carlisle
Behrens, Christian
Berry, Nathan
Ayers, Harry Clarence
Badham, Willard Edmund
Betz, Ha:rry Eugene
· Baker, Paul Samuel
Bishop, Herbert Martin
Balderston, Heber Hamilton, P. M. Blight, Reynold Ed. P.
Bannister, Alfred William
Boaz, Clarence Dooley
Bathey, Herbert Theodore
Bohrman, Henry William, P. M.
Beal, Selah Rollin
Bowen, William Miller
Bean, Clarence Wright
Bozorth, Charles Walter
Bean, John Hill, P. M.
Bowers, Harry Conger

Duvall, Edgar Augustus
Brewer, Henry John Gustave
Edwards, Ellsworth Joseph
Brill, Frederic Waltz
Faulds, Wm. Robert
Briceno, Carlos Jose
Fish, Charles Edward
Brockett, Clarence William
Fish, Charles Winthrop
Broadhead, Thomas Harvey
Forder, Cecil Alfred
Brown, Archie T.
Franklin, James Edward
Brown, John Colville
Franklin, Reuben Henry
Brown, Leroy Gregg
Frost, Fred Rufus
Brown, Robert Edward Lee
Fuller, Frank Pleasant
Buckius, Ed. Morris
Fulle~, George William
Burns, Robert James
Gardner, Raymond Albion
Butcher, Robert
Garn, Peter W., P. M.
Callender, Clarence William
Gertz, Peter William
Campbell, Walter Basil
Gilbert, William Henry
Carter, George Washington
Gillons, George Henry
Cartwright, Alexander Benj.
Gloege, Edward Frederick
Cherington, William Stacher
Gockley, Charles Edmund
Christian, Emile John
Goller, John Fred
Clarke, Wm. Thomas
Good, Clarence Milton
Clemens, John Charles
Gray, Jacob L.
Coleman, George Warren
Gratz, Louis Wilfred
Cook, Noel Daniel
Griffin, Oliver George
Copenhaver, Robert Carter
Greenough, James Frederic
Creswell, Frank W.
Greenwald, Ludwig Charley
Crop, William Mathew
Grundy, Joseph
Crowell, Edward Warren
Haigler, Albert Chester
Crump, Ernest Clarence
Halle1·,
Wm. Gustave
Culver, Edward Low
Hamer, Joseph W.
Cummins, Francis Marion
Hamill, Edgar Samuel
Cunningham, George
Hammond, Frank Leslie
Daniels, Wallace Graham
Hanby, Jay Walter
Daniels, Wm. Henry
Hand, Frank Emerson
Dart, Edward Henry
Hartley, Frank Alfred
Dequine, Burt Elkins
Harvey, Chas. Edward
Dimmick, Frank Moore
Harvey, James Maurice
Dinsmore, Joseph Henry
Haupt, Robert Samuel
Dixon, Willis Milnor
Haverstick, John Holman
Dobbs, Ralph Edwin
Hayes, Allen Ernest
Dolton, Louis Algernon
Heath, Robert Lee
Dow, Fred W.
Henderson, Harvey Milton
Du1fet, Geo. Emil F.
Herskowitz, David
Dukeman, Frank Clayton
Heyen, Albert
Dumont, Joseph Ralph
Duncan, Jonathan Columbus, P. M. Hildebrandt, Henry George
Hinton, Thomas
Dunkerley, Samuel George

629

'·

630

ROSTER

ROSTER

Hixon, James Hauke
Hosr, Benjamin Parker
Hoft'man, John Vernon
Hogue, Fred 'k Phillip
Holmes, Joseph Benjamin
Howell, Robert Paine
Hunter, Charles Stanley
Hutchinson, William Edward
l:Iutton, Frank Sutherland
Rydell, John Baptist
Iberson, Gregory Thaddeus
Irving, James
Isaacs, William Henry
Ivey, Herbert Dill
Jackson, John William
Jacobs, John Percy
Janssen, Julius
Jennings, Robert
Jensen, John Cornelius
Johnson, Luther Herman
Jones, Fred Hooker
Jones, John Leh1.nd, P. M.
Jorder, Frederick
Kanouse, Theodore Dwight, P. M.
Keeling, Charles Herbert
Kelch, Jacob
Kierulft', Benj. Franklin, Jr., P. M.
King, Eugene
King, Samuel Ulysses
Kinsella, Wm. Martin
Knapp, John Frederick
Knerr, Henry Edgar
Kortlander, Henry William
Krause, Charles
Krause, Julius Webster
Kreider, Joseph Chas.
La Dow, Arthur
La Dow, Charles
La Fontaine, Russell B.
Lambert, Mathew
Lang, John Eastman
Ledgerwood, Newton Green
Leflar, Albert Arthur
L egerton, Curtis Clement
Levy, Solomon

Lichtenstein, Thomas Victor
Logan, Martin Willard
Long, John Thomas
Low, Fred Ephriam
Lybye, Hans Christian
Lynch, Walter C.
Lyon, Frederick Saxton
MacLellan, Daniel Aldo
MacMillan, Andrew James
Madden, Maurice Bernard
Mandie, Alfred W.
Marsh, Willis Charles, P. M.
Martin, Geo. Handel·
Martin, James Edward
Martin, Richard William
Mason, Chas. Richard
Mathis, George Warren
McBirney, Alexander
McClelland, James Frank
McCulloch, Samuel Thomas
McDougall, James Tait
McKay, William
McKeown, James Washington
Mead, Charles Leland
Mead, Clarence Elmer
Mead, Roy Gibbons
Mellus, Frank Hancock
Mellus, Grover Blair J.
Mellus, Louis Randolph
Mendell, Chas. M., Jr.
Michael, Wm. Riley
Milburn, Charles Nathaniel
Miller, Frank Launtz
Miller, George William
Moodie, James Russell
Moodie, Joseph Grove
Moodie, Raymond Levi
Moore, Newton
Morgan, Chas. Francis
Morgan, James Gale
Morgan, Lawrence William
Morgan, Tho.mas Elisha
Morley, John George, P. M.
Monis"n, George Denton
Mote, Ira Ebenezer

Murphy, Alphonso
Myer, Charles Swan
Nauth, Oliver Lewis
Needham, Paul Arnold
Nice, Downing D.
Northleaf, Henning
Norton, Chas. Philip
Norton, Frank Lathey
Oldershaw, Frank Henry D.
Oliver, Ernest Warner
Opperman, Edwin Christian
Orchard, Wm. Fred 'k
Otto, Frank Wesley
Paden, Foster Spurgeon
Palmer, Arthur Malcolm
Palmer, Benjamin Gardner
Panzer, John Charles
Parker, Herbert Raymond
Parker, Lucius Clark
Payne, Wm. Ernest
Peckham, William Mason
Pedgrift; Edward David
Perry, William Franklin
Petter, Reginald Sinclair
Phipps, Charles
Plischke, Frederick William
Porreca, Camillo
Potts, Fred 'k Ernest
Presser, Carl
Price, Samuel 8., Jr.
Purdy, John Henry
Raney, Joseph Francis
Raymond, Ed. Shelton
Rawson, Guy Allison P.
Reavis, Winfield E lmo
Reed. George Albert
Reed, George Houston
Requa, Clarence James
.Requa, Herbert Davis
Rhind, John Edward
Rhoads, Charles Edward
Richards, Fred
Risk, Joseph
Riveroll, Elfigo
Roberds, Frederick Ottie

Robinson, <..;larence Leslie
Roeder, Henry
Rogers, Clarence Wm.
Rogers, Lawrence Hymer
Rook, Ross Henry
Rosemann, William
Rosenberg, Samuel
Rosenkranz, Jacob
Ross, Robert Marion
Rothgeb, James Frank
Russell, Henry Sears
Ryder, Morgan Lewis
Sanborn, Benjamin Fr.tnklin
Sandstrom, Charles
Saunders, Robert Howard
Sayre, John Scott
Schneider, George Henry
Schneider, William Theodore
Schultz, Henry Dentliff
Schweitzer, Arthur Geo.
Schweitzer, Charles George
Schweitzer, Ernest John
Scott, William
Sears, Stanley
Selander, Robert Bond
Seidel, Edward Y.
Shanahan, Maurice
Sharp, Frank Wallace
Sheffield, Charles Thomas
Shelley, Sim on S.
Shellhorn, Arthur Lemon
Sheppard, William Edward
Sherer, Albert James
Skinner, George Leonard
Smalley , Clifford Allison
Smith, Richard Robertson
Sobieski, John
Spears, Barton Walter
Spreen, Charles Carter
Stevens, Frank Alfred
Stice, Chauncey Albert
Strangman, Theodore
Strickler, John Henry
Sutch, Wendall Hamilton
Swanson, Carl Edward

Gill

632

ROSTER

Taft, Elmer Carlton
Tedford, George Walter, P. M.
Temple, George Francie
Temple, Herbert Flake
Tenbrook, George Henry
Test, Edward Allen
Thies, Charles Louie
Thomas, David, Jr.
Tieck, August Ben
Tierman, Albert
Tolley, Charles Stanley
Truby, Edgar Allen
Varian, Alfred Spencer
Tollstam, Louis Gustave
Upton, Emory S.
Vosburgh, George Herman
Wagner, Charles Claud
Wagner, Robert Garfield
Walker, Walter
Wallace, Chae. Albert
Walles, John Fred 'k
Walther, John Jacob
Watson, Alex. Jamee
Weaver, Sylvester Lafin
Weisbrod, Clarence Geo.
Weisbrod, Henry George

Wells, Don Wm.
Wheelock, Raymond Patterson
White, Arthur Burr
White, Charles C.
White, Clifford C.
White, George Otto
White, Sylvester William
Whyte, William Jamee
Wilcox, Ephriam Palmer
Wilcox, Philip Allen
Wilde, Charles Lawrence
Williams, William Henry
Wilson, Chas. Allen
Wing, William Alle'l
Winn, Albert
Winter, Albert HeJtry
Wood. Arthur Pearce
Wright, Benj. Green
Wright, Chester CurtiR
:Wright, Herbert Carlos
Wright, Parley
Wright, Albert Edgar, P. M.
Young, Alan Walton
Young, Charles David
Z'emaneky, Ellie Le"Vie
Zimmerman, Albert Frank
- 350

WITHDRAWN:
Conoway, Othello Parker
DIED:
WilRon, Arthur Fairburn

ROSTER

633

MEMBERS:
Arnold, George Ezra
Becker, Michael Thomae
Bent, William R.
Conklin, Louis William
Darby, Frank Howaru
Davies, Arthur
Duncnn, Walter Henry
Enscoe, Joseph Robert
Goble, Edmond Jamee
Goodwin, Harry Nettles
Gustafson, John Alfred
Hampson, George Harvey, P. M.
Henderson, Robert Leon
Huyck, Richard Asa, P. M.
Hoover, Benjamin Franklin
Lewie, Richard Hiram
Medearis, Albert I.
Miller, Monroe Yost
Pearson, Isaac
Curts, John Gooden

Peck, Frank Ferdinand
Peck, William Ottway
Penney, Jesse Hunter
Peterson, John Henry
Sanders, William Francis
Sawin, Alpheue George
Schleef, Charles, P. M.
Schroeder, Marion
Smith, John X.
Sparks, Frank Beeson, P. M.
Sparks, Joseph Beeson
Thompson, Peter Julian
Thorne, Robert William
Weston, Isaac
Wheeler, Brent MarshRll
Worn, George Roes
Wren, John Samuel
Young, Frank Leander

-37

WITHDRAWN:
Epperson, John Clifton

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Counter, Charles Reuben
Miller, James John O.
Patterson, John Luther

SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. 360.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday i.n each month.
Masonic Temple

LOY ALTON LODGE, No. 359.
Loyalton, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each montb.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

OFFICERS:
Albert Henry Cady, Master,
Arthur Sydney Young, Chaplain,
2733 Greenwich St.,
Alfred Charles Skaife, S en. Deacon,
George Rutledge Bell, Se11. Warden, Charles Hugh Rodden, Jun. Deaco11,
Victor Elmo Perry, Junior Warden, Cale Clark McQuaid, Marshal,
Stephen Isaac Simmons, Trcas'Mrer, William Floyd Yearian, Steward,
Lewis Emmett Sawyer, Secretary, Ernest Robertson Byers, Steward,
1859 Geary St.
Charles Richard Peters, Tyler.

ROSTER

HOSTER
MEMBERS:
Aitken, Frank Wm.
Dazey, Kendall Iverson
Aitken, John R., P. M.
De Lasaux, Harry Edward
Alderson, William Howard
Dement, Richard Henry
Auld, John Davidson
De Meyer, Gabriel Henry
Dillon, Isaac
Axman, Frederick Rudolph
Dillon, James Root
Axman, Melvin George
Dillon, John Francis
Axman, Rudolph
Dodge, Frank Lewis
Baker, Arthur Woodly, P. M.
Doig, James
Baker, George Washington
Dunn, Edgar H.
Barruth, Wm. Peter
Dutcher, Forrest LeGrand
Bass, Thomas
Edwards, Alfred
Batkin, Norton Thomas
Enemark, Leon Henry
Bell, George Rutledge
Epler, Samuel Edgar
Bell, Joseph D.
Folger, Roy Sinnott
Bell, Thomas Lefeaver
Benham, Joseph Marshall
Foreman, Andrew Macpherson
Benjamin, Elmer Hopkins
French, Jay Ed'ward
Bennett, Henry Charles
Futler, Harry
Bergen, Peter Cornelius J.
Glissman, Pearlie Randolph
Blank, William Augustus
Grim, Lucullus K.
Bliss, Porter Lincoln
Racket, Thomas Ophir
Bliss, Wm. Arnold
Hague, William Edwar·i
Brace, Herbert Edward
Haller, Emile Lucas
Brackeit, Earle
Hammersmith, Louis
Bray, Walter Garfield
Hanna, William Albert
Burns, Joseph Augustus
Hansen, Oscar Herman
Bryant, Blinn Seymour
Hart, John Andrew
Button, Ralph James
Hilim, Herman Marcus
Byers, Ernest Robertson
Hendry, Charles Stewart
Hendry, William
Cady, Alfred Henry
Chamberlain. Newell Day
Herndon, Walter Brotherton
Herrington, William Merced
Chambers, Thomas A.
Highfield, Frank Knight
Cook, Joseph Sturniolo
Cowan, Norman
Hinton, Russell
Crandall, Burr Harrington
Hofmann, Jacob Gustav
Cross, William Wood
Hoin, Theodore Stone
Hons, F~ed Chris
Crozier, Alfred Bernard
Crozier, Harry Perryman
Hubbard, Theo. Worthington
Cushing, Stephen Russell
Huttman, Edwin Towne
Daniels, Frederick Hugo
HuglieR, John Calvin
Dall, Cornelius Gnorge
Hutchison, James Crawford, P. M.
Dangers, Chester Arthur
,Jarvis, Thompson Pearson
Day, Charles Thurber
Johnson, Harry Sumner, P. M.

Johnson, William Cleas
Jordan, James Joshua
Kimball, William Ernest
King, Clarence Otto
King, Joseph Elvin
Kjeldset, Halfdan
Klabe, Erwin Morris B.
Krook, Lenus Gustave Theo.
Kron, Oscar Jacob
Laist, Otto, Jr.
La Motte, Alfred Daniel, P. M.
Laumeister, Anton
LeeCamp, Edward
Lehmann, Charles Henry
T.ewis, Joseph Cresswell
Lindsay, Francis
Lindsay, lnyses Grant
Linz, Fred John
Lipowitz, Maximilian, P. M.
Litvinolf, Michael
Louderback, Harrold
Loveland, Harvey Davis, P. 1111:.
Lundblad, Wm. Arthur
Magill, William Windren
Marrack, Reginald B.
Martin, Wm. Alston Macon
Mauerha.n, Arthur Carlyle
McClymont, Julius Seizer
McDonald, Frank William
Mcintyre, Eugene Blake
McKeand, George Ross
McKerrow, Henry
McQuaid, Cale Clark
Mencke, Rudolph Wm.
Mery, Jacob Lawrence
Miller, Otis Locke
Moll, Francis Oliver
Moore, Robert Isaac
Morgenstern, Arthur William
Morton, Lawrence Bunker
Munroe, Louis Francis
Nelson, Adolph Leonard
Nelson, William Christian
Newell, Ralph Gerard
Newroth, Louis Hell{Y

Nilsan, Olaus
Norton, John Francis
Oakes, Charles Wesley
Odell, Roy Farley
Otto, Robert William
Owens, Alvrado Benson
Pabst, Rudolph Ambrose
Parkhurst, Truman Leander
Paulson, Thorleif Bjerke •
Peiser, Edmond Adair
Pelletier, John Francis
Pence, Orlando Edward
Perry, ,Jesse Claude, P. M.
Perry, Victor Elmo
Peters, Charles Richard
Pritchard, Frank Wm.
Prost, Herbert Greiveldinger
Quade, Henry Otto
Ralph, Phillip Henry
Ramsay, John Domingos
Rasmussen, Edwin O~t.o
Rasmussen, Maurice Johan
Rasmussen, Rasmus Vister
Rassette, Samuel .Joseph
Rebard, John Emil, Jr.
Reichenbach, Henry Ewald
Reynolds, }~rancis Edward
Richard!, John
Richardson, William Joseph
Roddan, Chas. Hugh
Rosie, John Donald
Rowling, William Henry
Russell, Samuel Wilson
Rutishauser, James
Sanborn, Harvey Hackett
Sanford, Frank Warren
Sanguineti, Silvio Joseph
Sawyer, Lewis Emmett
Bcharowsky, Hans Albert
Scheilein, John Paul
Schenck, Alexf!.nder Turner
Segur, Howard Bradberry
Shields, Hugh Francis
Shutts, Fred Ordway
Sickles, George Lewis

635

636

ROSTER

Sieverts, Christian
Sivertsen, Johan Martin
Simmons, Stephens Isaac, P. M.
Simpson, Arthur Pierce
Skaife, Alfred Chas.
Slye, Joseph
Smith, Leon Hills
Smith, Wm. C~oper
Snir, Andrtlw
Souesens, John Peter
Spencer, Albert Winslow
Spohn, John Henry
Stephenson, Roy
Stern, Henry Stuart
Taylor, Philip Bates
Taylor, Wilfred Allen
Terrill, George Clark
Trimble, James Felix
Tucker, ;Uber John
Holloway, Howard Stanley
Jordan, Robert Stephen

Tuttle, Frank Ethelbe;t
Van Nest, Gamaliel C.
Vincent, Francis Osman
Walkinshaw, Wilfried Henry
Warwick, Henry Clyde
Waters, Barclay
Watters, George Franklin
Webb, Frank Robinson
Whan, William Weir
Williamson, Herbert Edward
Williamson, John Colonel William
Willis, William Walter
Wilson, Franklyn Marshal
Woodfield, Lincoln Merchant
Wood, John Charles
Woon, John Hastings
Yearian, Wm. Floyd
Young, Arthur Sidney, P. M.
-213

WITHDRAWN:
Kirkpatrick, George Edward
Palmer, Robert Charles

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Keatinge, Edgar Frankleton
DIED:
Anderson, Axel Ferdinand
Krueger, Henry Jacobus
Veale, Almer Fletcher

FORT BRAGG LODGE, No. 36r.
Fort Bragg, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John Elwyn Weller, Master,
Henry J. Dellett, Chaplain,
Fort Bra~g, Cal.
· .
William Arthur Chapman, S. Deac.,
Alfred Austm Lord, Senior Warden, William Henry Dixon, Jun. Deacori,
Wm. Fred'k Horace Fuller, J. War., Edward James O'Connor Marshal
Charles Russell Weller, Treasurer, John Todd, Steward,
'
'
George Golden, Secretary,
Andrew Dallas Duffey Steward
Fort Bragg, Cal.
Charles Buchard Plum~er, Tyle:.

TI OSTER

..

637

MEMBERS:
Albert, David Loweil
Lindrum, Berny Alex., P. M.
Barnett, Edwin Lester
Lord, Alfred Austin
liaum, Herman Robert
Lowell, Andrew J ac.atson
Lowell, John Walter
Beckman, Oswald Heribert, P. M.
Bell, Arthur William
Lowry, William Scott
Lyman, Arthur Stephon
Bouton, Edward Fillmore
Brown, Edward Evans, P. M.
Mathews, Charles William
Mccallum, John Alex.
Cavanagh, Charles Joseph
McOornack, Edwin Roy
Chapman, Wm. Arthur
McCornack, William Andrew, P. M.
Cullen, John Winchell
Mero, Charles William
Curtis, Carlton Allsopp
Delett, Henry J.
Milliken, Horace Fremont
Dixon, Edward William
Nelson, John P.
Dixon, William Henry
0 'Connor, Edward James, P . M.
Doidge, Henry Augustus
Olson, Goodmund
Derwin, Frank Romeo Canfield
Peirsol, James Kastar, P. M.
Duffey, Albert Edward
Plummer, Chas. B.
Duffey, Andrew Dallas
Purlenky, George Phillip
Duffey, Fred
Rasmussen, Alfred
Eglin, Mark Archibald
Rothgarn, Huben Andrew
Fee, George IT')nry
Schmitz, Charles
Foye, Henry Eugene
Schow, Henry Curtis
Foye, Henry Malcolm
Seaholm, Otto Henning, P. M.
Fuller, William Fred 'k Horace
Shafsky, Abraham Henry, P. M.
Gardner, Robert Curtis
Shafsky, Samuel
Golden, George
Sorenson, John Bronson
Stillings, George Hutchinson
Gray, Howard Walter
Gray, Mark Dana
Todd, John
Grimm, Charles Andrew Frederick Tregoning, Henry Stewart
Tullis, Edward
Higgin11, Walter Francis
Holmes, Harry
Weller, Charles Russell
Huggins, Eri
Weller, Guy Vary
Weller, Horace Aaron, Jr.
Hunter, Frederick Charles
Jones, Perley Centenial
Weller, Horace Alan11on, Sr.
•Tones, William Gaston
Weller, John Elwyn, P. M •
White, Fred Cyrus
King, Joseph Belway
Leiser, Leo.
Zerbe, Samuel John
-74
WITHDRAWN: .
Macrum, John Wilson

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Pringle, Douglas Lindsay
Woodruff, Chester
Switzer, Albert James
Wright, Charles Edgur
DIED:
Albert, Frank Hiram

. CHARITY LODGE, No. 362.
Campbell, Santa Clara. County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Chauncey Hira Whitman, Master,
Stilman Augustus Moulton, Chaplain,
Campbell, Cal.
Charles Ellis DeSelle, Sen. Deacon,
Irving Walter Snow, Sen. Warden, Roy Gatchel Archibald, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Irving Merrill, Jun . Warden, John Fellows Duncan; Marshal,
John Colpitts Ainsley, Treasurer, ,Ralph Henry Hyde, Steward,
James Fablinger, Secretary,
Erle Russell Kennedy, Steward,
Campbell, Cal.
Charles Townsend, Tyler.
Ainsley, John Colpitts
Archibald, Roy Gatchel
Atkinson, George Ernest
Bartholomew, Fleury K., P. M.
Beattie, William
Beattie, William Alfred
Bell, Thomas Floyd
Berry, Charles
Black, Edwin H.
Blanchard, Thomas S. J.
Bohnett, Lewis Dan, P. M.
Bohnett, Wm. Calvin
Brewster, Isaac J.
Brown, Earl Daniel
Bryant, Otis Warren
'1A.rter, John Easton
Cornell, Jesse James, P. M.
De Selle, Chas. Ellis
Duncan, John Fellows, P. M.
Fablinger, James
Farrington, Perry Francis

MEMBERS:
Fore, Harry Adolph
Galbraith, Nathan Buchanan
Greene, Joseph Adelbert
Griffith, William Butler
Hall, Arthur Andrew
Hanson, George Warren
Hartman, Pope Catlin, P. M.
Helliesen, Charles Frederick A
Hyde, George Edwin
Johnson, Andrew Lytgow
Keesling, Homer Grant
Kennedy, Erle Russell
Lewis Edward W.
Main, William Haines
Marra, Tom Elliott
McLaughlin, George Thomas
Merrill, Alex Pomroy, P. M.
Merrill, Walter Irving
Millard, Fred
Miracle, Curtis Brown
Mitchell, Frank Espin

63!>

ROSTER

ROSTER

638

Moulton, Stillman Augu&tus
Oliver, John Welch
Parker, Charles L., P. M.
Parker, Elisha Bert
Parso, George Lewis
Peterson, John Edvart
Powers, Edward Augustus
Putnam, Frank Olivia
Righter, Francis Marion, P. M.
Righter, Geo. Lutes
Robson, George Stokild, P. M.
Schmitt, Jean Emanuel

Scott, Wm. M.
Shaw, Sidney Burton
Smith, Stanley Bassett
Snow, Irving Walter
Stewart, William W.
'l'ownsend, Amos Brown
Townsend, Charles
Wade, Sylvanus Raynor, P. M.
Waite, Demmon Weston
Whitman, Chauncey Hira
Whitney, George, P. M.

-65

WITHDRAWN:
Curtis, William Holman

,

UIED:
Tuttle, Thomas Jefferson

BERKELEY LODGE, No. 363.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in <'ach month.
OFFICERS:

•

Frederick ]. R. Dawson, Ma.rler,
Redmond Cyril Staats, Chaplain,
5742 Claremont Ave., Oakland,
Edgar Roy Nash, Sen ior Deacon,
Hans Peter Nelson, Se11. Warden,
Edward Clyde Forbes, Ju11. Deacoll
Robert Paramore Arnold, J. War., George Linus Everett, Marshal,
Henry Byron Phillips, Treasurer,
George Philip Ey, Sll!Ward,
Charles An:J'Clo McKelvcy, Secretary, Albert Henry Nettleton, Steward,
3208 King St., Berkeley.
'Yilliam Riley Stamper, Tyler.

Abernethy, Harry
Adams, Leonard Oliver
Adams, Orville Davenport
Agar, Frank Edward
Ahlberg, Carl Fred 'k.
Alexander, Thomas Newton
Allen, Irving Cowan
Anderson, Leslie Herman
Andrews, William Samuel
Armitage, Ralph Vicent

MEMBERS:
Arnold, Edwin Charles, Jr.
Arnold, Robert Paramore
Arntzen, Valdeman
Asman, Ulrich Henry
Attfield, Harry Alex
Bailey, Charles Grant
Bailey, Lewis Newton
Baird, Robert Bowne
Banker, Harris James
Barnes, Henry S.

640
Bartley, Alfred Percal
Bartley, Samuel Pepper
Battelle, Barry Thomas
Barber, Oscar Thomas
Baxter, George Perkins
Bayley, David Barry
Beedle, Elbert Ellsworth
Behm, Augustus Clair
Belknap, John
Benton, Charles Henry, P. M.
Benton, Julian Juriah, P. M.
Bernstein, Alfred Emanuel
Bernstein, Jacob Alfred
Birdsall, James Bussey
Bigelow, John Edwin
Bishop, Frank Cornelius
Bouve, Claud Sylvanus
Bowman, Guy Tennyson
Bradholf, Clarence Otto
Bradholf, Peter Francis
Brothers, Walter Edgar
Brown, Walter Shirlaw
Burchett, George Letchford
Burgess, Frank Doyl
Butler, ltobert
Butterfield, Fred Louis
Card, Walter Beecher
Church, Allen
Church, Charles Edward
Cochran, Harrington Wilson
Coe, Herbert Milton
Cohn, Jacob Isaac
Cole, Charles Mattin
Colen, Lewis Herman
Congdon, Merton Joseph
Coppel, Leonard Henry
Coughlan, Walter Sherman
Cowley, Herbert Parkhurst
Cowley, William Ashlino
Cox, George Eckert
Cuthill, Thomas Andrews
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel
Craig, Davi<l
Craig, Harry Sherwood
Davies, Arthur Parker

ROSTER

HOSTEH
Davis, James Randal, P. M.
Daw~on, Fred;irick Joseph R.
Demerritt, Hayden Lewis
Denniston, James
Dickie, George Edward
Dickinson, Philip Storrs
Dopkins, William Erle
Driver, John Rush
Dreyer, Niels Peter Fred 'k
Dudley, William Christopher
Eberhard, George Hammil
Edwards, Benj. Franklin
Egleston, John Valentine
Elliott, George Alexander M.
Ellis, Charles Zenas
Ellis, Eben Bethuel
Emerson, Ralph Waldo
English, Walter Atheling
Erickson, Antaria
Ji:slick, Jo~eph Harold
Evans, Morgan Robert
Everett, Charles Crandall
Everett, George Linus
Ey, George Phillip
Falk, Henry Carl Hermann
Fento11, William Joseph
Field, Henry Norman
Fichte!, Bernard Louis
Forbes, Edward Clyde
Forbes, William John
Foulk, Henry Douglas
French, William Henry
, Furlong, Herbert William F.
Gage, Benjamin Franklin
Geater, George Clark
Gibbs, John Walter
Gill, Charles Delos
Gillihan, Allen Francis
Glessner, Harry Harbaugh
Godwin, James Madison
Grey, Frank Sidney
Griffith, Hanfotd Berry
Grigg, Harry Herbert
Gross, Frederick
Gross, Joseph Watson

Hager, Adolph John
Hall, Charles Ambrose
Hamilton, Aymer Jay
Hanford, John Raymond
Heath, George Ralph
Herms, William Brodbeck
Herrmann, Andrew
Hewett, Barlow
Heywood, Walter Minturn
Hilderbrand, Frederick Jacob
Hill, James Faulkner, P. M.
Hill, John
Hodge, James
Hodge, James Hamilton
Hodge, John William
Hoedel, Robert Oscar
Holt, William Henry
Horkey, Frederick Joseph
Horton, Alvin
Howson, George William, Jr.
Hughes, Samuel
Hugill, Elbert Abram
Humphrey, Ravand Hovey
Hutton, John Adams Douglas
Irwin, Horace Dunn
Jackson, Arthur Vincent
James, Charles Lewis
Jenkins, Joel Harry
Jenkins, William John
Johnson, Edward
Johnson, Frederick Woodward
Johnson, Gustav Adolph
Johnston, Clarence Loran
Jones, David Fowler
Jones, Harry Oliver
Jones, John R.
Juster, Cyril Cecil
Kellogg, Francis Comings
Kelsey, Harry Dayton, P. M.
Klaus, Fred James
Klein, Julius
Koford, James Missin
La Baree, William H.
Langlais, Chas. Alfred
41

641

Lasell, Ernest Randolph
Laws, Henry Hudson
Lawton, Frank Houteling
Lear, Peace Elwyn
. Lee; James Richard
Leonard, Joseph William
Likins, Ralph Sylv&ter
Linsley, Howard McMinn
Little, George Wesley Willis
Loring, Ernest Linwood
Luhr, William Frederick August
Lyons, George Washington
Macaulay, Henry Clayton
Macdonald, Hershel Holt
Martin, William Augustus
Maro, Charles
Mason, Ralph Waldo
Matignon, Edmond Chas.
. Maxim, Harry I van
McAdams, William Grover
McClintic, John
McConnell, Alex. Grosby
McCoy, Charles Henry
McDonald, George Roy
McKelvey, Charles Angelo, P. M.
McKenley, Edward
McKeown, Arthur
McLaren, Jay Lucullus
McLean, Jay
McNair, Frederick Henry
Meder, Walter John
Merrilees, John M., P. M.
Miller, James Arthur
Miller, Robert Luther
Miller, Royal
Morgan, James Alfred
Morris, Fred Ludwig
Morrison, John Tower, P. M.
Morse, George David
Morse, Newell Obadiah
Mortensen, Clarence N.
Mortimer, Walter John
Mosher, Ernest Hiram
Mueller, Fred Albert

642
Munz, Ernest Julius
Nash, Edgar Roy
Needham, Harry Burr
Nelson, Hans Peter
Nelson, William Orr
Nettleton, Alfred Henry
Newsom, Joseph Raymond
Nichole, William, Jr.
Nielsen, Neils Jensen
Nielsen, Nicholai Lauritz, Jr.
Ochiltree, Gilbert Brydon, P. llrf.
Oliphant, Joseph
Otis, George Fredron
Ott, August Louie
Owens, William Evan
Ozouf, Henri Eugene
Parmenter, Charles N.
Parsons, Albert Samuel, P. llrf.
Patty, Lee Hardin
Peck, John Thomae
Peck, John William
Peck, Louis Stanley
Phillips, Henry Byron, P. M.
Pidwell, Willard Trevosso
Poston, Theron Gregory
Pratt, Edward Payson
Preston, James Theo.
Price, Raymond David
Ramsden, Charles Harold
Randall, Edwin Griffin
Randolph, Robert Lee
Rankin, Ivan Sloan
R_e ed, Calvin Morse
Reed, George Erlwar•I
Reed, Richard Cecil
Reynolds, John Henry
Richards, Ernest A.
Richards, Harry Baker
Richter, Roland
Roadhouse, Chester Linwood
Roberts, Freclerick Charles
Robison, James Leman, P. llrf.
Ross, John Sutherland
Rostein, Louis Albert
Ruby, Robert Leland

ROSTER
Russell, MerriJI Leo
Sanger, Walter Max
Schaefl'er,.James Garfieltl
Schmidt, Carl Louill Augi1Ht
Schmidt, George
Schuessler, Louis Edward
Schuster, Gustav Adolph
Sheldon, Frank Henry
Sheldon, Albert Nelson
Shepherd, Joseph M.
Sherman, Cornelius Augustu1
Siddall, Clarence H.
Sieghold, Henry Carl
Simonds, Charle• G.
Simpson, John
Sims, Richard Maury
Slater, Frederick Ernest, Jr.
Slater, George Rhodes
Smith, Charles Medred
Smith, Dwight Timothy
Smith, Geo. Ormond
Smith, Harry Camden
Smith, Lycurgus Dee
Snyder, Lewis N.
Sorensen, Hans Rudolph Nicolai
Sorensen, Otto Valdemar
Spear, Chules Henry
Spear, Charles Morton
Spinks, Charles HendeJ'llOn
Staats, Redmond Cyril, P. M.
Stacy, Leroy Willis
Stamper, William Riley
Starke, Eric Alex.
Steele, John Alex.
Stev11ns, Carl Emile
Stevenson, Herbert Barrows
13tevenson, Thomae Edward
Stewart, Guy Robertson
Stockwell, Harry Allen
Stokes, Charles Lawrence
Swick, Edwin Clyde
Sykes, Charles Julius
Thies, John
Thomas, Wade Hampton
Tobin, James Anthony

ROSTER.
Tobin, Thomas John
'frueblood, George Linebarger
Turner, Edward Quale
Turner, John McBurney
Turner, Wm. Edward
Underwood, Byron Edward
Verrue, Harry Randal
Vickers, Auatin Lot
Voteller, Frederick
Wagner, George Ralph
Walker, Albert Jay
Wallburg, Charles
Waller, Arthur Johnson
Ward, John Edmund
Wnrd, Stanley Palmer

G!3

Weymouth, Edgar Albert
Wharton, Raymond Dias
White, George W.
Whiteing, Homer
Whiteman, Fred Amer
Williams, Albert McQueen
Wilson, Leonidas Edward
Witte, Gustav Adolph
Wittich, Julius Henry
Woodward, Fred 'k. Albert
Wooldridge, Jesse Walton
Woolsey, Frank Reeve
Wright, William Charles
Young, John William

-317

WITHDRAWN:
0 'Reilly, Garret
DIED:
Annis, Jerome Walter

I

...
OLIVET LODGE, No. 364.
Corning, Tehama County.
l:>tated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Harry Almond Hunt, Master,
Thomas John Barkee, Chaplain,
Corning, Cal.
Otto Bismark Liersch, Senior Deac.,
Bertram Lloyd Reynolds, Sen. W., Bert ]. Hoffman, Junior Deacon,
Parker Howard Thompson, lu11. W., Homer Dodds Crooks Marshal
Warren Nichols Woodson, Treasurer, Lewis Kelsey Rochfo~d Stewdrd
Edwar~ Frederick Conway, Sec., Frank William Koehler: Steward:
Corntng, Cal.
William John Crooks, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allerton, Wm. C.
Barker, Thomas J.
Beresford, Fred Grant
Birch, Alfred Lee
Blanck, Humboldt A.
Blatchey, Alfred F.

Busey, Allen A.
Case, Edgar Elroy
tJ11se, Elias Payne,-P. M.
Gaee, Mason Nutting, P. M.
Cockcroft, John
Converse, Lynn Crosby

ROSTER

644

ROSTER
Conway, Edward l!'rederick, P. M.
Crooks, William John
Dale, William
Darden, William Henry
De Motte, Marshall
Finger, Clyde Pinckney
Flegal, Frank Porter
Flournoy, Chester E.
Foster, Hartley C.
Foster, Robert Albert, P . M.
Fripp, Richard Bacot, P. M.
Harper, Hiram Augustus
Harpst, W. H.
Hoag, George Alex., P. M.
Hoffman, Bert J.
Hunt, Harry Almond
Jacobs, Henry Frederick
Kenney, Marcus Endorus
Kent, Nelson Gilman
Koehler, Frank William
Liersch, Otto Bismarck
Lukens, Ernest Paul

Notz, Theodore F.

Maynard, John Baptist
Mcilroy, John James
Moffitt, Isaac Frank, P . M.
Morgan, George G., P. M.
Newton, Perry John
Newton, Robert Perry
Remick, Henry Clay
. Reynolds, Bertram Lloyd
Rice, Napoleon D.
Rickman, Edgar Co~rad
Rochford, Lewis K.
Samson, William Herbert, P. M.
Smith, Alex.
Snowden, William C.
Thairlwall, John Richard
Thompson, Parker Howard
Walker, William
Wheeler, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Wilson, Elias McCarty
Wilson, George Benton
Woodson, Warren Bettis
Woodson, Warren Nicholas
--56

WITHDRAWN:
Wilbourn, Thomas J.
DIED:
Thompson, Lewis Hartwell

WILLITS LODGE, No. 365.
Willits, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Youde, Master,
Wi!Ham Carey Whitaker, Chaplain,
Willits, Cal.
Hugh von Emmel, Senior Deacon,
James Edward Daniels, Sen. Ward., Raymond Chas. ]. Ritschel, !. Deac.,
George Calvin Lewis, Jun. Warden, George Thomas Heyward, Marshal,
William Thomas Saxon, Treasurer, Ray Baker, Steward,
Fred N. Loring, Secretary,
Walter Moore, Steward,
Willits, Cal.
Herbert Walker, Tyler.

fHii

MEMBERS:
Martin, John Wesley
Alden, Edward R.
McClelland, George
Babcock, Frank Norton
McPeak, Eugene
Baker, Martin Van
Mcwethy, LeRoy
Baker, Raymond Carl
Melville, Wm. Shreve
Bilodeau, Lewis
Bittenbender, Duane
Mohn, Harry C.
Muir, Henry Baker
Bittenbender, Lloyd
Palmer, Charles Edgar, P. M.
Blackman, Edward
Perry, Frank Fielding
Blodgett, Walter LeRoy, P. M.
Brandt, Daniel James
Philpott, Bert Roy
Branscomb, James Henry
Plato, Freeman Frederick
Brashear, James Leonard
Power, Luke
Campbell, Alexander James
Provines, William, P. M.
Clark, Bernard Fred
Reed, Theron Delmar
Clare, George C.
Richardson, Geo. Washington, P. M.
Conner, Beecher Barnum
Riffe, Abraham Thomas
Daniels, James Edward
Ritschel, Raymond John
DnvidS<>n, Allen, P. M.
Roach, George Marvin
Davidso~, Benjamin Franklin
Roach, Lew Jackson
DaviB', James Edgar
Roach, Robert Emmet
Dryden, Robert James
Rowe, Cassius Mitchell
Edwards, William Richard Jones
Sawyers, David Leander
Eggerts, Herbert George
Saxon, William Thomas
Ellis, Carl William
Selfridge, Edward August
Ells, Henry George
Smart, David, P. M.
Fairbanks, Augustus John
Smart, George Arthur
Smith, Abinadi Jefferson
Foster, William Anderson Scott
Steele, Fred William, P. M.
Goldberg, Conrad H.
Greenlaw, Charles Rutherford
Thompson, Arthur Harlow
Hart, Henry Herbert
Underhill, Wm. Raymond
Heyward, George Thomas
Von Emm~l, Hugh
Hotskin. Charles William
Walker, Herbert Edward
Irvine, Charles Alonzo
Whitaker, Wm. Carey
James, Albert Jeremiah
White, Gaston David
Joye~, James ·Alfred, P. M.
Whitney, Frank
Le Bars, Joseph
Woelffel; George August
Lewis, Georglt Calvin
Y oude, George
Loring, Fred Newhall
-75
Petrie, Alexander Hays·
Dunlap, Oren

WITHDRAWN:
Raffee, Llewelyn Jay
DIED:
_R ice, William Isaac

648
Miles, William Oscar
Miller, Frederick Marvin
Minard, Frank F.
Miner, Jesse Wayland
Mower, Eugene Albert
Murphy, Leavis Andrew
Murray, George Grover
Myers, Ernest Marvin
Niblock, Samuel William
Noble, Jay Preston
Norton, Paul Bruce
0 'Brien, Charles Lee
Paden, James Ronald
Parsons, Wickliff' Walker
Pickford, George
Pickford, Rollin Alphonso
Pierce, Charles Sheldon
Platt, Sidney Lawrence
Plaugher, John Paul
Porter, Robert Milroy
Pottle, Fred Warren
Pottle, James Cyrus, P. M.
Price, William R.
Primrose, Bert Anderson
Proffitt, John William
Pugh, Walter Glenn
Reeder, Jacob Lee
Robinson, George Vacil
Rohrer, William Newton
Rowe, William
Ryan, Omer Wester
Sample, Thomas Nelson
Scholz, Oswald Sylvester
Smith, Frank Messer
Smith, James Granville
Smith, James Hamilton
Smith, James Wiley, P. M.
Snyder, Ra)ph Lennard
South, Francis Palmer
Sprague, Hobart Almerin
Stebbius, Jam es Albert
Stewart, John Albert

ROSTER

IlOSTER

Stover, Cleme Earl
Streeter, Jarvis, Jr.
Sunderland, Alpheus Eugene
Sunderland, Le Roy Edwin
Sutherland, William Angus, P. M.
Swartz, Frederick Ll<iyd
Swift, Harvey Whalen
Swift, John Meivin
Taylor, Robert Lincoln
Thiele, Carl Louis
Thomson, Thomas Rogers
Torrance, Charles
Telfer, Ralph Morris
True, Edward Henry
Vincent, Joseph John
Vogel, Herbert Eugene
Wakefield, Chester Kenneth
Walden, Charles Edward
Wallace, Duncan
Walrond, Ernest Adolphus
Walter, Charles Lewis
Warner, F:rnnk Edmund
Warner, Willis
Waterman, Edward Bentley
Walthall, Edward Berfoot
Wheelock, Arthur Charles
White, James Riggs
Whitney, Frank Jarvis
Wickstrom, Reuben N.
Wilber, Harry Clinton
Wilkinse>n, John Howard
Williams, Clarence Nelson
Williams, William Rufus
Wilson, George F.
Wishon, Albert Graves
Wolfe, Frank DeKalb
Wright, John Elmer
Wright, William Calvin
Wyatt, Walter Frank
Wylie, John
Young, Edmund Ellsworth

-231

Ambr!>se, Wiley Dismukes
*Hogsett, Charles Henry
McCain, Thomas Jefferson

li1!J

WITHDRAWN:
Munger, Alber. Luke
Smith, Ernest Nathaniel
Smith, Thomas Henry

DIED:
Anderson, Thomas Hart Benton
tPugh, Charles David
Stokes, Vietor J,ee
*Affiliated during the year.
tDegrees conferred during the year.

SOUTH PASADENA LODGE, No. 367.
South Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harry Will Masac, .Master,
Walter 5mith Coffin, Chaplain,
Hall of Records, Los Angeles,
Harold Ernest Allen, Sen. Deacrm,
Floyde Rigg James, Sen. Warden, Charles Delbert McCluer, J. Deacn11.
Harry Maxwell Agnew,!. Warden, John Thomas Peed, Marshal,
William Church Brainerd,• Treas.,
F~anklin Padan, Steward,
Benjamin Vernon Garwood, Sec.,
Samuel Paul True, Steward,
711 Mission St., S. Pasadena.
Charles Mack Hord, Tyler.
Agnew, Harry Maxwell
Allen, Harold Ernest
Allyn, Calvin Ethan
Armstrong, Allan Andrew
Arnold, Edwin Martin
Austin, Charles
Axtman, William Francis
Bakewell, Wm. Chas. Piedmont
BardE'n, Edward Everett, P. M.
Barnes, Earl Ellsworth
Barnes, George Silverman
Barton, Loren Chandler
Becker, Henry
Beers, Edwin Llewellyn
Bennett, Charles Lafayette

MEMBERS:
Binder, George Lewis
Bishop, George Wells
Bradshaw, wn{. Andrew
Brainerd, William Church
Brickels, John Limer
Brigham, Wm. Curtis
Bristol, Frank Osborn
Browning, Charles Clifton
Bush, George Clarene11
Carlin, Dee Elias
Carlin, William McCullum
Carson, John Elmer
Case, Munson Timothy
Cattern, Frank Addison
Chapman, Richard Beek

650

HO:::iTER

Clark, Harold Haines
Clement, Charles Walter
Cochrane, Wm. Alfred
Coffin, Walter Smith
Compton, Louis Dozier
Cooley, Elias Arthur
Conltas, George William
Coulter, Herbert McKay
Cramer, Charles
Crippen, Ellery Hix
Curtis, Marcus Lewis
Davis, Alfred Wilson
Dodge, Jonathan Sherman
Douglas, Charles Kimball
Doyle, John Hurst
Dublin, John Ed.
Dupuy, Ben Francis
Eckert, Wm. Thomas
Elliott, Archie H.
Ewing, Charles
Fishburn, Chalmers Good
Fishburn, Claud Willard
Fisher, Joseph Eugene
Foster, Wm. Orange Barber
Freeman, William Prescott
Garwood, Benjamin Vernon, P. M.
Gates, Charles Clark
Gates, Egbert James
Gates, Don Salmon
Godfrey, Edmund L. B.
Greene, Richard 'fobias
Grier, George Edgar .
Hanson, Harry Clarence
Hawkins, Robert Edward
Hazlett, William
Herman, Wm. Frederick
Higgins, Frank Barnum
Higgins, Roy Walter
Hinman, Charley
Hirschler, David Rudolph
Hoagland, Robert Stout
Hord, Charles Mack
Runt, John Newell
Jacobs, Wm. Leonard
Jacobson, William Forsberg

James, Floyd Rigg
Johnson, \Valter J.
Johnston, Edward James
Jones, Harry Arthnr
Jones, Walker F. D.
Keetch, Arthur
Kiesling, Henry
Kurtz, Peter
Ledgewood, Nathaniel
Lewis, Boon
Littrell, John Calvil:1
Longley, Anzelotto Leonell, P. M.
Longley, Charles F ranklin
Lowry, William Henry
Mackin, Frederick Blair
Manchester, Otis Byers
Marotz, Gustav
Masac·, Harry Will
McCluer, Chas. Delbert
McCluer, James Henry
McCutcheon, Robert J.
McKee, Thomas Heron
McKinney, Samuel Morehead
MeLeish, John Munn
McNabb, :James Britton
Mcstay, Carl Elmo
Mender11on, Henry
Miller, Abraham
Moffitt, Thomas
Moore, John W.
Myers, Fred
Nelson, Charles Alfred
Newerf, William De Forest
Newton, Daniel Roque
Packer, Hartley Crawford, P. M.
Padan, Franklin
Parsons, Walter Hawkins
Pearson, Harry Ernest
Peed, John Thomas
Penfield, George Wallace
Phillips, Frank Henry
Pierson, Alvin E.
Postle, Herman Richard
Postle, Kenneth Fountain
Pridham, James Chaplin, P. M.

ROSTER
Pridham, Richard W oodsworth
Price, Benjamin
Reid, La Verne Sanden
Rhone, Charles Edward
Robertson, William James
Robinson, William M .
Rockwell, William Chester
Rose, Riclulrd Thornton
Rust, Edward HnmP.hrey
Salisbury, John Caleb
Sampson, John Homer
Shult, Adolph Frederic
Seasy, Randolph
Seay, Robert Horsley
Shank, Edmund Simpson
Shenk, John Wesley, Jr., P. M.
Shuttleworth, Frederick William
Smith, David Franklin
Spears, Peter Benham
Speers, Froman
Staininger, George Earl
Stillwell, John Edward .
Stonebrook, Hal Bell
Stringfellow, William Boothby

651

Sutton, Ernest Venable
Sweetser, John Virgil
Taylor, Charles Newton
Thomas, Geo. Harper
Treen, Frederick William
True, Samuel Paul
Updike, Peter Holmes
Vatcher, Ernest Geo.
Vatcher, Herbert James, Sr.
Vatcher, Herbert James, Jr.
Veir, Henry Christopher
Veir, Martin Peter
Wadsworth, Perry Cyril
Warner, Frank Morrison
Walton, Walter Watts
Weaver, Bertram Moses
Weber, Harry Lud
White, Louis Napoleon
Wilde, Eben
Wilder, Jarvis Raymond, P. M.
Wilson, Charles William, P. M.
Wood, Wm. Bell
Wray, Cecil Samuel
Wride, Andrew J .
-168

WITIIDRAWN:
Cox, William Lester
Gifford, Thomas Ingersol

DIED:
Soper, Joseph Bebe

UNITY LODGE, No. 368.

'

Glenda.le, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS: '

R ichard Clark Sternberg, Master; Alfonso Lafayette Chandler, C.,
417 Brand Blvd.
Donald Stewart Erskine, S. DeacoA,
Ernest John Morgan, Sen. Waraen, Willi3l11 Francis Nash, Jr., I . D.,
Albert Mason Chase, Ju11ior Warden, H arvey W ilson Hoff, Marshal,
Asa Vincent Fauset, Treasurer,
W illiam R alph Phelon, Sleward,
Alphonso Welker Tower, Secretary, Jordan Stewart Neel, Stci(Jartl,
835 Damasco Court.
Charles H. Rovenscroft, Ty/tr.

ROSTER

652

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Doneeken, Fr~nk Archer
Ackley, Leroy C.
Albright, Frank Ellsworth, P. M.
Doyle, John Robert
Dupuy, Frank Sampson
Andrews, .Joshua Earnest
Eble, Richard Alvin
Ash, Harry Wilber
Echols, William Alonzo
Ayers, Edgar Stewart
Ellias, Edward Bertine
Ayres, Edward
Emery, Edw11rd Ulysses
Bailey, William
Erskine, Donald Stuart
Baker, Frederick
Evans, Charles Lee
Ball, Lewis W.
Evans, Wm. Elmer
Barnes, George Nuttman
Fanset, Asa Vincent
Bartow, Chas·. Wesley
Fish, Elira Jerome
Bierbower, Samuel Corey
Fisher, Frank Philias
Black, William Goff
FiskA1 Dana
Borthiek, Samuel Littleton
Fraley, Walter Conrad
Borthick, William Esley
Frank, Eugene Charles
Brooks, Alton Matthew
Graf, John John
Brown, John Mackenzie
Hall, Racine D.
Brown, Valentine Price
Herron, Frank Crail
Bryant, Allen Lincoln
Hibbert, W~. Joseph
Budd, Harry Johnston
Hobbs, John, P. M.
Bulkeley, Henry Loomis
Hoff, Harvey Wilson
Bullis, Wesley H.
Horasta, Joseph Wm.
Burch, Nelson C.
Hough, Wm. Arthur
Burke, Joseph James
Howe, Harry Lee
Campbell, Arthur, P. M.
Hopkins, Edward Beach
Campbell, Daniel, P. M.
Hopkins, James Edward
Camp bell, Frank
Campbell, Matthew
Hunehberger, John Grabell
Carmack, Clyde Robert
Hosford, Horace Greeley
Imler, Ruben Zinn, P. M.
Carr, Vernon Albert
Chandler, Alphonso Lafayette
Kelty, Daniel, Jr.
Chandler, Cornelius Lincoln
Keyes, John Lawrence
Chase, Albert Mason
King, Herbert Charles
Chase, Raymond Everett
Larkey, George Emory
Le Grande, Henry Louis
Coker, Harry Perey
Coleman, Earl Victor
Lewis, Fred Richard
Collins, Albert William
Logan, John Arthur
Colloran, John Edgar
Logan, Oliver Cunningham
Cornwell, Albert Glenn
Lough, John Ashwell
Curtis, Charles Courtney
Lynch, Edward Melville
Delegal, Thomas Percy
Lynch, Harry Baker
Marek, George Albert
Deal, Fred
Masters, Roy William
Deerr, William

1

Reynolds, Marion Allen
McConnell, Ernest
Richmann, Emile Frederick
MeElroy, Wm. Weldon
McFadden, Charles Wilber, P. M. Ried, Sylvanus John
Robertson, Wm. Cambell
Mcintyre, James Freeman
Russell, Charles Edward
MePeak, John
Schick, Morris
MeNntt, Porter S.
Shaw, Hartley
MeWhorter, Wilber Walter
Smart, George Arthur
Miller, George Thomas
Smith, Wm. Alexander
Mills, William S.
Miner, Hamilton Arthur
Soper, Eldon Erskine
Mitchell, Alexander
Sternberg, Richard Clark
Moore, Francis Edward
Stine, Jesse Sylvania
Story, Warren
Moore, Stephen Walker
Monroe, Lewis Allen
Thatcher, Amos Davis
Morgan, Ernest John
Tholen, Emile Francis
Morgan, Frank Sproule
Thornton, Tom Caruthers
Moyse, George IDysses, P. M.
Timothy, Harry Wm.
Nash, Wm. Francis
Tower, Alphonso Welker
Neel, Harry L.
Tower, Ora Isaiah
Neel, Jordan Stewart
Tuttle, Paul Vincent
Oberdick, Earnest Farrell
Valentine, John Sherwood
Ogden, Hiram
Venable, Joseph Wm., Jr.
Vesper, Frank H.
Ogg, Thomas Daniel
Vold, Christopher Oliver
Orff, Christian John
Pack, Edger Wilson
Walton, Clarence Munroe
Palmer, Samuel James S.
Walton, Munroe Lawrence
Palmer, Thomas Costian
.Webster, Joseph Henry
Parker, Charles Frederick
Wendell, Ch88'. Joseph
Parker, Ezra Fish
White, Charles
Paschal, Henry T.
White, Richardson Douglas
Penn, William Thomas Prosser
Whomes, Joseph
Phelan, Wm. Ralph
. Williams, Charles Nelson
Pulliam, Claude Overton
Williams, Ralph Sargent
Pumphrey, Chas. Hammond
Wood, Thomas, Jr.
Rees, Roger George
Wintersgill, Arthur Thomas
Remsburgh, Melvin Zlora
Witt, Edwin M.
Reynolds, Elbert Deville
Woodberry, George Barker
WIT.HD RAWN:
Hartsaugh, Christopher William
DIED:
Imler, David H;nry....

653

-160

654

ROSTER

ROSTER

OCEAN PARK LODGE, No. 369.
Ocean Park, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Thomas H . Hanna, Master,
William Gree_n, Cha,lain,
Venice, Cal.
John V. Dunsmore, SeHior Deacon,
Eugene W . Dement, Senior Warden, Thomas Wild, Junior Deacon,
Luke W. Lederman, !tmior Warden, Clyde W . Hover, Marshal,
William A. Watson, TreasMrer,
James T. Peasgood, Steward,
Charles S. Thatcher, Secretary,
James H. Blanchard, Steward,
Venice, Cal.
William Daniels, Tyler.

Alexander, James Victor
Allen, Harry Warfield
Arnet, Albert Charles
Anderson, William Henry
Ashley, John William
Baker, Daniel Webster, P. M.
Barthel, Julius C.
Berger, Morris
Birbeck, Joseph Nelson
Berne, Martin Alonzo
Blanchurd, .Tohn Howard
Bliss, John Dallett
Bodillo, Pedro Modesto
Brooks, Clarence Shepherd
Brooks, Louis Robinson
Brown, Claude L.
Brown, Geo. Edwin
Brown, George W.
Brown, Henry West
Brown, James Templeton
Bryan, Stephen Douglass
Bungay, Robert Henry
Burks, Dana
Burns, Charles Young
Carter, Jamee Thomae
Carter, George
Cheney, Royce Lattimore
Coil, Ernest B.
Conklin, Willard M.

MEMBERS:
Cool, Geo. Washington
Courtellier, Joseph Emellion
Crandall, Ira Leonard
Cunningham, James Calvin
Dalee, John Bertram, P. M.
Damerel, Charles William
Dando, Albert Bruce C.
Daniels, William
Dement, Eugene Willis
Denne, Fred Vincent
Dodge, Charles P.
Donahue, Daniel
Douglas, Alexander
Dunsmore, John Victor
Dutton, Harry Adams
Eads, John Walter
Eager, Abraham Wesley
Eakins, Herbert Brown
Eames, Frederick T.
Edinger, Ralph Gar1ield
Ehrenhart, Clifton Charles
Eiehbaum, Herman William
Elliott, Walter Sherman
Erkes, Walter Emil
Eville, Thomas Benjamin
Fanjoy, Charles Allen
Fanning, Samuel F.
Featherston, Chas. Henry
Ferris, James Andrew

1

Fish, Leon Henry
Fraser, Alexander Rosboro, P. M.
Fraser, Earl AlexanJ.er
Fredrickson, Charley C.
Freeman, John Alex.
Gage, Herbert Richmond
Garvey, James
Gillman, William Earl
Gillon, Charles Edwin
Good, Henry Maynard
Good, Henry Milton
Grant, Perey Morria
Greieh, Stephen B.
Green, Charles N.
Green, William
Grubb, Oscar Edwin
Halbrook, Carl Eugene
Haaeh, Peter
Haney, Robert Jamee, P. M.
Hanna, Byron Calvin
Hanna, Thomae Hollis
Haskell, Wesley
Hassinger, Thomas Hamilton
Heimann, Richard
Hover, Clyde Vernon
Huft', William T.
Johnson, Carl John
Johnson, Gus
Jones, George M.
Kennedy, Everett E.
Kirklie, Ole A.
Kiger, William H.
Kingery, S. Henry
Koontz, Wilford Charles
Lawton, Frank
Lederman, Luke David
Leland, Alvah Hoyt
Levengood, H. Wilson
Loud, Adolph Sternfeld
Lorenz, Howard Sutton
Mail, William R.
Makin, John
Mallet, Richard Edward
Marcoux, Harold W.
McCord, Oscar Thomas

McKinney, Ollie Henry
McKinney, Presto11
MeManus, George
Meldrum, Thomas Miller
Mellen, Charles Henry
Meskimen, Charles E.
Metoalf, James Rolland
Meyers, Henry Malke
Michel, Herman
Millar, F. Vietor
Miller, Harry
Miller, Kenton A.
Montgomery, Boyd Imbrie
Morphy, Evan Percival
Moore, Herbert Benjamin
Morrison, Edward Donaldson
Nuttall, John Price
0 'Connell, Chas. P.
Oldham, John Y.
Osborn, Robert Albert
Owens, James E.
Packard, Gordon Steve
Palmer, Byron
Peasgood, James Thomas
Pendelton, Charles Henry
Petersen, Henty C.
Phillips, Robert Alex '
Porter, Guy McBride
Powell, Charles Beecher
Rathbone, Charles Clary
Rea, Frank Wheeler
Reed, Charles G.
Rennx, Walter William
Rice, Mahlon Charles
Ritchie, Charles Hamilton, P . M.
Rogers, Harry Ermon
Royston, Fred E.
Sanders, Orlando A.
Schooley, Charles
Seipt, Louis Clayton
Sibley, John Whitney
Silver, Burnim
Simon, Telix Joseph
Smith, A. D.
Smith, Ralph Elmer

r,55

656

ROSTER

Smith, Thomas Galen
Sohn, James Harve ·
Spencer, Thomas Jarvis
Stamps, George Furman
Staples, Frank ·A.
Steinart, Bernard Wm.
Stephens, Thomas John
Stevens, Benjamin Francis
Stewart, Frank
Stiles, James Milton
Stinson, James Alfred
Stockwell, William
Thatcher,. Charles Seeley, P. M.
Thomas, George Washington
Thomson, Fredrick G.
Thornbury, Wm. Y.
Titus, Clarence Hugh
Toenjes, Adolph Ulrich
Tomblin, Eugene S.
Turner, David C.
Van Orman, John T.
Vawter, Edwin James, Jr., P. M.
Vawter, Edwin James, Sr.
Wagar, Milo HarrJ'

Walker, Henry
Walter, Charles John
Warner, Louis Leroy
Watson, Wm. Arthur
Webster, Alfred Francis
Webster, Leon Sanford
Wells, Frank Oliver
Wenzloff, Grant Solomon
Wheeler, Seymour D.
White, Robert
Wilde, Thomas
Williams, Evan Thomas
Wilkinson, Joseph Atkinson
Williams, Buel Hurbert
Williams, Darius H.
Williams, Leonard Wilson
Wilson, Lawrence Henry
Withers, Joseph Harold
Wolff, Francis Carver, P. M.
"foodward, John Waru
Yale, Charles A.
Young, Lee Harry
Zerboni, Mark

WITHDRAWN:
Oliver, William E.
SUSPENDED
King, Marvin R.
Morrison, Earl Benton

FOJ:G

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Stearns, Frank L .
Simons, John Edison

DIED:
Steele, Murray M.

ROSTER

657

AMITY LODGE, No. 370.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
2668 Mission Street.
OFFlCERS:
William Henry Hermitage, Chap.,
William Everett Wo9d, Master,
150 P ost Street,
William Bovey Curtis, Sen. Deacon,
Walter Gay Campbell, Jun. Deacon,
Rudolph Frederick Lange, S. W.,
Russell Irvin Wisler, Marshal,
Richard Hugh Thompson, -'1,.W.,
Paul Frederick Schaffner, Trea.s,, -John William Hatch, Steward,
Thomas Walter Walker, Secretary, frederick Henry Wood, Steward,
1508 Taylor Street.
Richard Cain, Tyler.

-Hl6

MEMBERS:
Bowen, George Thomas
Alberti, Lawrence Boyer
Boyd, James
Alexander, Frank Forsythe
Boyle, Albert Edward
Ann ear, John Asket
Bradford, Frank Giles
Armbruster, Rudolph Herman
Briggs, Walter David
Armstrong, Elbridge Robertson
Bruckermann, Frederick William
Ashwin, John Thomas
Buegge, Harry
Augsburger, William Erlward
Bullock, James
Babcock, Frank Leslie
Bultmann, Harry Edward
Baldwin, Walter Isaac
Burgess, Chandler WilHam
Banzhaf, H11-rry Augustus
Burgh, Gustav Joseph
Barker, Thom.as E.
Burton, Henry
Barreto, Robert Charles
Butler, Seth Lake
Bass, James Clifford
Buttle, Clement Francis
Bauer, George ·Christian
Buwaldo, Klaat Charles
Bauer, John .
Caddy, Richard Ernest Albert
Bell, Charles Edward
Cain, Richard, P. M.
Belser, Paul Arthur
Campbell, Walter Gay
Berdahl, Frank Edward
Chalmers, Frank Calder
Bernhard, Paul Peter
Chamberlin, Howard Hector
Beugger, Julius Frederick
Cheney, Lemuel Wilson
Benner, Harold Phineas
Coldwell, Turman Otto
Billings, Lucius H.
Binning, John Henry
Conklin, Elmer Hedges
Black, James John
Conyers, Horace
Cooper, Benjamin Francis
Blanc, Stewart Alexander
Corbin, Oliver Lee
Boeken, Marcus William
Cordes, Herman John
Bohr, Rudolph Henry Oscar
42

''

658

ROSTER

Crew, Charles Edward
Crowhurst, Fred 'k Samuel
Cullen, James
Curtis, Clarence Edgar
Curtis, William Bovey
Cuthbert, Albert Henry
Daggett, Leander Bradley
Dawes, Winfield August
Dawson, George
Dearing, Jasper Newton
Disston, Arthur Dixon
Doherty, Harry John
Douglas, James
Douglas, Walter Renick
Dunbar, George August
Easson, William Lawson
Eaton, Clarence Edward
Edwards, George
Edwards, Walter Francis Milner
Eichner, Johannes
Ellenberger, Frederick August
England, Harry Hillard
Engle, Frank Thomas
Engleh'.l.rdt, Alexander
Essell, Charles Julius
Ewing, George Ross
Field, Joseph Clifford
Fleck, William Alexander
Poster, Harold Turner
Freudenthal, Albert Charles
Furze, William Richard
Gardner, George Milville
Gardner, Raymond Charles
Gibson, Otis
Girdwood, David
Girtner, Alfred
Glasson, Wm. Charles Worthington
Gruttner, Albert Theodor"
Gunn, John William, Jr.
Hamilton, Charles A.
Hammerson, Percy Luke
Hanna, Wm. James
Harper, Andrew
Hasselbach, Henry Christopher
Hatch, John William

Hatfield, Samuel
Hause, Edward Washington, Jr.
Hayes, Phineas Durkes
Head, Fredrick
Henchens, Rudolf Heinrich
Henry, Raymond Manning
Hermitage, William Henry
E'.iller, Fredriclr Michael
Hine1, Charles Lamb
Hoffer, John B.
Hoffman, Ernest August
Hoffmeyer, Cordulus Henry
Hoffman, Glen Thomas
Hogberg, Henry
Holcomb, Frank Herbert
Holst, Arthur Edward
Howard, Virgil
Hunt, Oscar Fred
Hunter, Henry Clay
Hutchinson, George Richard
Jacq'Q.es, Wm. Anthony
Jennings, Enos Charles
Jennings, James Washington
Jensen, Olaf Martinez
Johnson, John Marencius
Johnston, Thomas James
Johnston, William George
Kennedy, Robert Vance
Kidd, Elmore Allen
Kiefer, William Jacob
Klevesahl, Henry Charles, P. M.
Klippel, William George
Kraus, Edward John
Lancaster, Robert Jonas
Lange, Ruclolph Frederick
Lange, William Frederick
Languetin, Emile Eugene
Leaman, William Tell
Lee, James Douglas
Lichty, Elza Lawrence
Lombardo, Joseph
Loughery, Robert Johnston, P. M.
Lynn, Theodore Ayers
Mackenzie, Frank Joseph
MacKenzie, John Campbell Bruce

ROST:tm
Mackin!f, Ernelft Sidney
Pierce, Eugene Irving
Mahan, Albert Henry
Putnam, James Wainwtig&t
Maison, Lewis A1th111
Rau, Benjamin P'ranklin
Marckley, Claudie Ardis
Reed, Alfred Alvin
Maritz, Paul
Reeves, Charles Dowdell
Markel, Howard Hill
Rehn, Gee:rge
McAdoo, John WalteTs, Jr.
Rentschler, }'red John
McCallum, Ha:told Howard
Rey, Le&n Martin
Ml!Callum, John H.
Rivers, Edwin Wesley
Mccready, Stepllen l\!oody
Rock, Lee LoTetidgir
McDonald, Byron DeWitt, P. M.
Rose, James
McDonald, Robert Frttnklin
Rowland, Albert
McDonald, SilvestC'? John
Roxby, Goo:rge Stanley
McDowell, William Aadrew
Runkle, Milton Bell
McHenry, Thomas
Russell, Norman
McKenzie, William Haylfard
Salter, John Westley
McKinne, Andrew Barna
Salter, Richard :Matb.ew
McLennan, David Middleton TuckerSanford, Frank Willis
McNally, Arthur James
Savage, William Da:niel
McPherson, John F.
Saw, Frederick William
Mead, William Fredeirick
Scamell, Art'&.ur Ernel!t
Melchoir, Henry
Schaffner, Paul Frederick, P. M.
Melvin, Alfred David
Scharrenberg, Pant
Meyer, Frederick William
Scheppler, Ernest .Tolm
Miller, John Harper
Schmidt, Paul Fred 'k
MoHer, Louis Henry
Schott, William Joirn
Moller, William Daniel
Schubert, Charles Edward William
Morgan, John William
Scllultz, Ferdinand Conrad
Murphy, Henry James
Schultz, Frederick William
Neil, Walter Scott
Seott, Royal Clyde
Nelson, Andrew
S"'lgrave-, Joseph
Nelson, William Wilks
Seibert, John Clute
Norman, Edward Peter
Shea, Charles Perine
Orth, Herbert Bender
Shepston, George Grant
Osthoff, Henry William
Sies1t, Richard
Palmer, George J.
Silliman, Geo. Edward
Parker, Lewis Lansing
Sivertsen, Charles Olof
Parkinson, Richard
Skoog, Sidney Paul
Parisien, Emile Otto
S:aek, Enoch
Paulson, Paul Marnus
Smith, Bert James
P elle, Fred 'k Harrison
Smith, John Sorensen
Perry, Charles
Smith, Rose Richard
Petersen, Victor John
Smith, Rudolph Adam
Peterson, Edwin Theodore
Smith, Thomas Boarman
Pfaff, Christian
Spilker, Adolph Gustav

659

660
Springett, George
Stahle, Charles August
Stahle, Harold John
Stanton, William Palmer, P. M.
Stark, Edward Seraphine
Stephenson, Edwaru, P. M.
Stockmon, Ralph
Strawbridge, Chester Wright
Strawbridge, Wilber Styles
Struven, Frederick Christian
Swofford, Tyson Keener
Symons, Charles
Taylor, Edward Tomlinson
Thomas, Geo. Washington
Taylor, Frank Percival
Taylor, Frank Tomlinson
Thompson, Clyde Arthur
Thompson, Richard Hugh
Thurston, Charles Martin
Tomkins, Joseph George
Tormey, James Sylvester
Towne, Wm. Robert
Trautvetter, Alexander Otto
Trotman, Wesley BrynjoHf
Upham, Walter Fuller
Upham, Walter Sumner

ROSTER
Wachtman, Frederick James
Waite, Alfred Napier
Wales, James Henry
Walker, Thomas Walter
Warn, George Andrew
Warren, George Irving
Webster, David Frank
Weisker, Emil Richard
Whiteside, William
Wigney, Benjamin Arthur
Wilkes, Alfred
Williams, Enoch R.
Williams, William Jerome
Wilson, Joseph Alexander
Wisler, Russell Irvin
Wisnom, John
Woll, Charles
Wood, Frederick Henry
Wood, William Daniel
Wood, William Everett
Wythe, Frederick Stephen
Yardley, George Warner
Young, Howard Birney
. Young, John Edwin
Zett, August Lewis,?. M.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Loveland, William Jay
Millar, Robert Forrester
Rassmussen, John Charles
DIED:
Lemon, James Arthur

661

OCEANIC LODGE, No. 37~·
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated meetings, last Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Gustav Carl Bechert, Master,
Ed Towse, Chaplain,
Honolulu, H. T.
John Smyth, Senior Deacon,
George Samuel Curry, Sen. Warden, William Albert Ham, Junior Deacon,
Lawrence Alfred Kerr, Jun. Warden, John Christian \Vagner, Marshal,
Carel Justus DeRoo, Treasurer,
Richard Summers Kelly, Steward,
John Aurelius Palmer, Secretary,
Benjamin Crouchley Stearns, S.,
Box 291, Honolulu, H. T.
William Jones, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

-285

WITHDRAWN:
Ashworth, Fred Drew
Lillie, Clarence Belcher
Gilmore, William Shepard
Richards, Russell Dodge
Sammann, Paul Ester

Ehbinghausen, Alvin Henry

ROSTER

Anderman, Henry Fred Wm. Geo., Jr.Coulter, George Thomas
Andrade, Joseph •
Craw, Roy Alexander
Armitage, Harry
Crowley, David William
Ashbahr, Louis Frank
Curry, George Samuel
Atwood, Ozro Millard
Davis, George Anthony
Baluwin, Herman James
Dayton, David Kalakaua
Bechert, Gustav Carl
Denison, Harry Norwood
DeRoo, Carel Justus
Bellina, Charles Henry
Bemrose, Ross Hamilton, P. M.
Detor, John Demetrios
Benjamin, Lewis Stanley
Dillingham, Benjamin Franklin
Blanchard, Edward Bates
Dingle, William
Blom, John Albion
Dolliver, Henry Calvin
Durant, Albert Allen
Blum, Robert
Edlund, Frank G.
Bockus, Charles Gerald, P. M.
Boisse, Gaston John
Fairweather, Alfred Doane
Fairweather, Norman Stanley, P. M.
Bosson, Charles Lewis
Farrington, Wallace Ryder, P. M.
Bowler, John Francis
•eckons, Robert Warren
Fisher, William Lunkin
Brown, Edgar Marion
Gartley, Alonzo Floyd
Brown, Geo. Joseph
Gehring, Henry
Buckley, John
Geracemos, George Nicholas
Bub·cher, Harry
Goetz, William Henry, P. M.
Capilos, Anargyros
Ham, William Albert
Capilos, Demosthenes
Hansen, Cornelius
Chillingworth, Charles F.
Harrison, Frederick
Clark, Albion Fisher
Hatch, Frank Lewis
Haughs, David Michell
Clark, Arthur William
Hayselden, Harold Thomas
Collins, John Robert
Coney, John Hawkes
Henry, William
·

662

Pratt, Joseph George
Hottel, Charles Oliver
Raphael, Hyman.
Hundley, Samuel N.ap(>leon
Reinecke, Jienry Herman Martin
Hurtt, Allen Milton
Jarvis, Edward Fred 'k
Plummer, Geo. Tennent
Rosenberg, Isadore
J eaae~t, William
Johnson, Edmund
Schutte, John
Johnson, .Merle McNaughton, P. M. Schwartz, Joseph
Schwarzberg, Elmer Louie
J ohna9n, Samuel
Johnson, William Paul
Shingle, James Frederick
.Jones, William
Shodahl, August Oscar
Kelly, Richard Tummers
Simel'llOn, Aaron Cook
Kelly, Thomas
Simpson, Harry H.
Kenake, William Chaffe
Smith, George Louie
Kerr, Lawrence Alfred
Smith, Joeeph Alexander
Ketcheson, John Henry
Smith, William Henry
Lee, Charles White
Smyth, John
Levenson, James David
Spitzer, Arthur Joe!'ph
Lobweiss, Joseph
Spitzer, Sidney
Mackenzie, James Harri11
Stearns, Benjamin Crauehley
McCoy, William Craig
Strohlin, Charles Hanford
McDonald, Angu11 Panl
Stump, Frank Arthur
Menefoglio, Alfred
Thurston, Charles Henry
Merrill, Charles Franeie
Tinker, Alfred Edward
Mills, Harry Thoma11
Towse, Ed., P. M.
Moore, William Love
Treuer, Henry
Morgan, Ernest James, P. M.
Wagner, John Christian
Morris, Reade Horras L.
Waldron, Frederick
Neely, Arthur Webber
Watson, John B.
Neimann, Ernest Rudolph
Watt, Henry Chorley
Norton, Benjamin Hale, P. M.
Webber, Alva S.
Palmer, Edward
West, Frederick B.
White, William George
Palmer, John Aurelius, P. M.
Perry, John M.
Williams, James John
Winant, Elmer Terry
Pfeiffer, Charles Henry, P. M.
Pilt?:, George Henry
Wri~ht, Clyde Elroy
Pollister, Raymond Storey
Wright, George Scott
-130
WITHDRAWN:
Whitehead, Orlando John

Hon, Charles

ROSTER

ROSTER

DIED:
Dee, Lawrence Henry
Treadway, Henry Gorham

G:i3

GARDENA LODGE, No. 372.
Gardena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, First Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank Elias Conkling, Chaplain,
Andrew Edward Diebold, Sen. Deac., ·
John William Wearne, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Hector Nelson, Steward,
Gerald Aubery Porter, Steward,
Augustus Heckethier, Tyler.

Thomas Price, Master,
Sawtelle, Cal.
Perry Leroy Follis, Senior Warden,
Charles D. Ballard, Junior Warden,
Ira Pierce, Treasurer,
Cyrus Lloyd Edinger, Secretary,
Sawtelle, Cal.
Allen, John }"'red
Bathrick, John H.
Bathrick, William J.
Beem, Abner Lyman
Biggart, Thomas
Badger, John Charles
Badger, Tom Marke
Badger, Walter
Bowen, John Harre
Burgin, William J.
Clark, Francis Marion
Cowles, Newton E.
Crear, James Robert
Christian, Henry Louis
Day, John Warren
Dodge, Francis Eugene
Dodge, Roy James
Dunn, John Murphy
Dwire, Francis B.
Eaton, Harry Russell
Elsey, Francis Ray
Foster, Louis F.
Gardner, Arthur Jackson
Gibson, Addison Howard
Green, John D.
Green, William Henry
Hann, Alonzo Francie, P. M.
Hawkins, Leland Barnes, Jr.
Hewett, Chester Frederick

MEMBERS:
Jackman, Alfred W.
Jacobs, Charles Elmer
Jacobs, Mark Reginald
Klasgye, John W.
Longacre, Addison 0.
Longacre, Jamee E.
McCarrell, Walter E., P. M.
McDaniels, John L.
McNeieh, Robert Homer
Michael, George M.
Miller, Charles Frederick
Mohr, Adam Bard
Mohr, Edward Bard
Olsen, Andrew Christian
Peterson, Thomas Henry
Pitman, Thomas C.
Pitman, Wm. Walton, P. M.
Pitman, William
Richwine, Henry Oliver
Robbins, Arthur Lafayette
Roberts, William
Rodgers, Robert James
Russell, John Lawrence
Sawyer, Joseph A.
Simpson, Walter
Spencer, John Foster, P. M.
Steele, Frank Landram
Stevenson, Christopher Ward
Struthers, Andrew Jackson

664

ROSTER

Tilt, George A.
Towne, Dannel N., P. M.
Tuck, Frank ·Milton
Tucker, Jay Thompson

Epperly, J. W.
~'anning, Beri

Weed, Edward Odell
West, Lowry Earl
Wood, Harry James
Wood, William Herbert

ROSTER

-(ill

\VITHDRAWN:
Michaels, Adolph W.
Outcalt, Charles Earl

VETERAN LODGE, No. 373.
Sawtelle, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, 1irst Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Price, Master,
Frank Elias Conkling, Chaplai11,
Sawtelle, Cal.
Andrew Edward Diebold, S. Dc11co11,
Perry Leroy Fallis, Senior Warden, Charles Hector Nelson, Marshal,
Charles Dwaine Ballard, ]1111 . Ward., George Campbell Wilson, Steward,
Ira Pierce, Treasurer,
Gerald Aubrey Porter, Steward,
Cyrus Lloyd Edinger, Secretary,
Augustus Hickethier, Tyler.
Sawtelle, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Attrell, Fletcher I.
Curtin, Thomas
Axtell, Charles Henry
Dewes, Elisha
Badger, Norman Nash
Denton, Samuel S.
Depler, Charles
Baker, Luther J.
Depler, Hugh Scott
Ball, Charles Edward
Ballard, Chas. Dwain
Diebold, Andrew E., P. M.
Bales, Alfred W.
Dickley, Frederick
Dills, George Abdicl
Bly, Carl Don
Bowerman, Nelson
Dobbings, John Henry, P. M.
Boyer, Eugene Franklin
Drew, George
Boyer, Leonard Bell
Driggs, Morgan
Bundy, Chas: M.
Eagler, Charles E.
Butler, Irvin Cornelius
Edinger, Cyrus Lloyd, P. M.
Carnegie, Archibald
Elliott, Matthew
Clark, David
Fallis, Perry Leroy
Conkling, Frank E.
Flanery, David
Courtney, Geo. Landon
Ford, Harry Gar1ield
Cowan, Earnest Asa
Ford, Harry Wm.

I

Ford, Ira Beebe
Frame, James Merrill
Freeman, Henry E.
Gepfert, Cornelus Morgan
Gerrard, Arthur Moine
om, George Ellcl'l!On
Gilmore, Hiram
Graham, John B.
Guffin, Allen R.
Guidinger, August Matthew
Haas, William
Ha.JI, William B.
.tiickethier, Augustus
Haskell, William
Hasse, Herman E.
Heagy, Harvey Washington
Heckler, Henry Adams
Hill, Fred Axtell
Horsnell, Fred
Horton, Schuyler Daniel
Householder, Samuel D.
Hromadka, August B., P. M.
Hudson, Arthur
Hurlbut, Henry Alonzo
Huston, l!'rank H.
Huston, Jesse Eli
.Tenkins, Robert
Jones, Guy Clifford
King, Abraham Lincoln
I:aing, Robert Douglass
Lambert, James Riley
Lear, Peter R.
Leavers, John Estee
Lamoreaux, Chas.
Lindsey, Arthur Young
L'Etoile, John
Logsdon, James Albert
Low, Thomas J.
Lufkins, Frank H.
Martin, Fred Jacob
May, William Wallace
Mecum, Edwin W.
Morgan, Richard William
Mortensen, Wm. Soren

Mudge, Edwin· Elmore
Murphy, Thomas ·
Myrick, Mack Henry
Nelson, Chas. Hector
Noeth, Geo. Vincent
Nirk, Sydney
Ormston, David Benj.
Osborn, Joel Edgar, P. M.
Parsons, Norton Jason
Patton, Scott Howard
Peck, George William
Pierce, Ira
Piety, Stephen Thos. •
Porter, Gerald Aubrey
Price, Thomas
Prichard, Martin Howard
Pritchard, Sydney Herbert
Putnam, Roy Griswold, P. M.
Reeves, William Pitt
Reid, Herbert B.
Rhoda, August J.
Rice, Burney Allen
Richards, Charles Carson
Roseburgh, Allen
Rudisell, Geo. Edwin
Schaap, Wm. Howard
Scott, Wm. Alexander
Seager, Frederick Waller
Seward, Ollie A.
Shade, Marvin Robert
Shull, Geo. Cookman
Sigman, Marcus H.
Skilling, Edward Hamilton
Smith, John Lewis
Sonnesyn, Peter Herman
Stilson, Seth
Stilson, William Merle
Ten Eyck, James Campbell
Thompson, John Alexander
Tull, Gilbert
Tyler, Charles Edmond
.Vriesma.n, J oa.nnes Adria.an
Wait, Dudley Monroe
Walsh, George Carl

665

ROSTER

666
Waltmeyer, Thomas H.
Wearne, John Wm.
Wheeler, William Daniel
Whitson, Levi H.

Wilson, Charles August
Wilson, George U.
Wilson, Frank M.
Worcester, Edward Payson

ROSTER

-132

WITHDRAWN:
Pilgrim, Charles M.
Edwards, Edward Frederick
Price, Edward Westwood
Gill, Edmond Roy
Whitson, Lincoln Lee
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Muller, Albert Rudolph
N el!is, Clarence J.
Richardson, William
Sager, Thomas Willi.am
Wakefield, John C.
Warren, James Riley
Waggoner, Lewis S.
White, Calvin Norman

Gregory, William Elmore
Bottomfield, Sheridan
Calhoun, Ezra
Gilford, Andrew J.
LeFevre, Joseph Palmer
Lonsberry, Willi.am
Murch, John Wesley

DIED:
Kelly, Arthur
Loar, James A.

Elser, Frederick

JEWEL LODGE, No. 374.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
Curtis Benton, S c11ior Deacon,
Burnside Cromwell, }..faster,
Theophile S. B.oehm, Ju11ior Deaco1t,
2036 Steiner St.,
John A. Snell, Marshal,
Leo Bruck, Senior Warden,
Clarence J. Shipaugh, Steward,
Thomas Frederick Heam, /. W.,
John Jacob Mundwyler, Treasurer, Moses M. I. Myers, Steward,
Hiram F. Wright (of Starr King No ..
Charles S. True, Secretary,
344), Tyler.
2456 Bush St.
Anderson, ·Per Axel
Bellmnnn, Heinrich Ernest
Benton, Curtis

MEMBERS:
Blodgett, Samuel Oiµega, P. M.
Boehm, Theophile Sigismund
Bone, Raymond Hawker

Braendlin, John Conrad
Bruck, Leo, P. M.
Burger, Chas. Henry
Butler, Alfred Joline
Casassa, Charles Henry
Cohn, Max
Cromwell, Burnside, P. M.
Davidson, Arthur Douglas, P. M.
De Boer, Albert
Evans, Frank Arden
Finley, William Hugh
Fiterre, Henry Spence
Galloway, Wiley Kimball
Gassaway, Crosby Mitchell
Geballe, Isidore Henry
Gee, Arthur Telford
Greenbaum, Albert Abraham
Gruenberg, Carl
Haug, Julius August
Hearn, Thomas Frederick
Heller, Herman
Hughes, Walter Robert
Hunt, Fred A.
,Jacobsen, Axcel Cefred
Jaulus, Bernat
Jonas, Isidore
Kehn, Leon Lippman
Kenney, Gerald
Lachman; Herbert Fred 'k
Lachman, Jacob
Lachman, Louis
Lada, Edward B.
Langenberger, Charles H. F.
Lerond, George We~ton
Levin, Emanuel Monroe
Levin, Joseph Edward, P. M.
Levin, Maurice Everett
Levy, Louis
· Levy, Mark Eugene, P. M.
Lindley, Paul Jay
Lynngreen, Alfred Lawrence

<lC7

MacCleverty, Charles Coleman
Mahood, Cs.dueeu11 J. W.
Mancini, Francesco
Monssen, Per
Morey, Arthur Snow
Mundwyler, .John Jacob
Nevin, Washington
Newbauer, Julian Herman
Newbauer, Louis
Nolting, Edward A.
N orero1111, Frank Gilman
Nowall, Howard Wallace
Pferdnor, Louie Paul
Piccirillo, Francisco Dominico
Pinkson, Leon Jacob
Platt, Elisha Allworth
Previati, Louis Joseph
Rau, Fred 'k Robert J aeob
Reinhart, Edgar
Rice, William Henry, Jr.
Roth, Paul
Rusk, William Gee
Schuh!, Sylvain
Severi, Gino
Siebenhauer, Salomon
Simpson, Joseph Dodd
Snell, John Arthur, P. M.
Solomon, Baruch
True, Charles Shaw
Wallace, Herbert
Walling, Richard William
Walten, Maximilan Ferdinand
Walters, Benjamin
Wayman, Mark
Weissbaum, Gustav
Wiley, Herbert
William11, Ernest George
Winkley, Walter William
Wippern, Ches. Theophile
Wright, Dexter M.
-88
Zeh, Frederic Christoph

668

ROSTER

ROSTER

Hornick, Fred 'k. Bruner
Diebold, August Lucien
. Inglis, Paris Leach
Diebold, Charles Clovis
Ingram, Robert He.nry
Dodd, Robert Wm. J·as.
Isbell, George F.
Dodson, Edward Milton
Isbell, Henry LaSell
Donnelly, Audley Francis
Jackson, Albert Ernest
Duncan, Earle James
Jackson, George Benjamin
Douglass, Louis Bradley
Jamieson, Walter Scott
Dunsing, Louis
Jeffrey, Andrew
Eldridge, Edward Le Roy
Jenkins, Edward Charles
Erb, Louis Francis
J eBBen, Christian Frederick
Fairweather, John Henry
Jewett, Frank George
Faubel, John
Johnson, J a m es Everett
Fawcett, Pleasant E.
Johnson, John Alfred
Fee, Grant
.Johnson, John Hobart
Finlayson, James ,Alex_.
. Johnson, Shirley Wayman
Fischer, Ernest Louis, P. M.
John11on, Walter S.
Fisher, Steuart Leonard
Jones, Frederic Charles
Flood, Austin Grant
Junker, Frederick, Jr.
Fossey, George Francis
Justus, Carl Alonzo
Foster, Jesse Clark T.
Keil 1 Edward, August
Foster, Robert
Kennedy, Daniel Webster
Fourness, Havelock
Kenny, William Rowland
Freirmuth, :C:enry Hervey
Kerr, John
Gillespie, George Graham, P. M.
Klint, Anton Henry
Giese, Jules Paul
Goetting, Charles Lawrence, P. M. Knox, Leslie Henry
Kutsch, John
Gosling, Ernest Pierce
Lance, Goodman Harvey
Grimm, Harry, Jr.
Landers, Milton Hagaman
Grimm, Lewis Robert
Lan1,rpaap, Hugo
Gunn, Leander Chalmer
Larkins, Jarues Alex.
Halek, Geo. Lyle
Larsen, Louis Albert, P. M.
Hamerton, Alfred Chas.
Lawrence, Stephen
Hamilton, John Williams
Lawson, John Finlay
Hansen, Albert Christian
Leigh, James Henry
Hanton, Alfred George
Levy, Sol Jacob
Harcom, Joshua John
Lewis, Harry Turner
Harrison, James E. D.
Liechti, Arnold W.
Heinz, Arthur
Logan, John Wm.
Henderson, John :Malcolm
Longwill, John
Hendricks, Edward Marshall
Lowrey, Robert Denton
Hildebrandt, Carlos Neuer
Lyon, Walter Thomas
Hobart, Oliver 8.
Mackillop, Andrew P.
lJollingshead, Frank
Mackillop, Angus
hicks, Herbert Harrie
Mackillop, Angus W.
Hinds, Hiram Conlee

RICHMOND LODGE, No. 375.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Mon<lay in each month.
Clement and First Avenue.
OFFICERS:
William Albert Burdick, Master,
William Henry Standart, Chaplain,
515 Anza Street.
Charles Frederick Werner, S. D.,
Angus MacKillop, Sriiior Warden, Grant Fee, Junior Deacon,
Joshua John Harcom. Jun. Warden, John Albert Johnson, Marshal,
John Faubel, Treasurer,
William George Brown, Steward,
Havelock, Fourness, Secretary,
Charles Benjamin Sessions, Steward.
460 Eighth Ave.
George A. Baum, Tyler.
Arey, Minord Thresher
Armstrong, Wm. Francis
Barrett, Webb Wallace
Barth, August Herman
Baum, George S.
Becker, Walter Frank
Bennett, Arthur William
Bernard, James Cumming
Betz, Uhas. Fred 'k
Bidwell, Walter Edmund, P. M.
Bielawski, Hugo Theodor
Billingsley, Urban Clark
Binkley, Earle Waldo
Bleily, Alban Centenial
Bovyer; Percy Tyler
Bovard, Portens Spence
Boyd, George Lossing
Bradley, Albert Allan
Bradley, Charles Clarence
Bradner, Geo. Douglass Horner
Brand, Frederick John
Bransford, Edgar McDowell
Bright, Solomon Louis
Brown, Abner Wolcott
Brown, Calvin Daniel
Brown, Erle Millwater
Brown, William George
Brownlee, John P.

MEMBERS:
Burbeck, Julius Lee
Burdick, William Albert
Burtchaell, J:ohn William
Caine, Albert Howland
Calhan, Alvin Lane
Chamberlain, Chas. Preston
Chester, Theo. Watkin
Chrfatianson, .John Marius
Clark, Henry Augustus
Clark, Henry Graham
Clark, James Wm.
Clark, William Arnett
Collins, Asa Weston
Collis, William John
Comegys, Lloyd C.
Conner, J!lomes Henry
Corkery, Wm. Steven
Crane, Douglass Barnitz, P. M.
Crothers, Ralph
Crothers, Wm. Henry
Cunningham, James Stewart
Cushman, George Earl
Cushman, Harry Eldridge
Danhauer, Louis Hurd
Davenport, Wm. Belfield
Davies, George Andrew
Dayton, William Andrew
Dellwig, Ed. James

..

669

670
Mackillop, Archibald D.
Maddux, Parker Simmorrs
Mann, James Mn11roe
Mardis, Benjamin Ailen
Maryt, TheodortlS 1'~ed~ilrne
McCarthy, Charles Francie
McClaine, Millard Am.drew
McCubbin, James
McDonald, Frank Poole
McGowan, Henry Clay
McKeown, Andrew
McMullen, Irving H.
McPhail, Roy Kenneth
Mehrtens, Loull!I
Menke, William
Miller, George Antone
Miller, Geo. Wm.
Moore, Harry Christen
Morris, Alfred Thomal!I
Morris, Robert
Mortimer, Charles Smith
Morton, Robert Lineoln
Muller, Caspar
Munday, Chalmer, P. M.
Nelson, Fernando
Nelson, Frank Fernando
Nelson, William A.
Newburgh, Henry
Niemeyer, Harry Albert
Noe, John Edward
Norgrove, Richaru Leeter
Nystrom, Charles Alfred
O'Connell, Patrick James
Orme, Bernard Will~am
Osborne, Gordon Chas.
Osborne, Reginald J. T.
Peters, Ronald Albert
Pomeroy, George Spencer
Pratt, John Haraden
Pressey, Earl Drucil
Pue, Douglass Forrest
Purdy, Frederfa
Rainey, Edwin Sam11el
Rainey, Frank
Reaside, Henry Robert

ROSTER

ROSTER
Riley, Allen Jame&
Riley, Martin Painter
Reinhold, Edgar Louis
Robinson, Charlc11 Franeis
Rogers, John Wa:ehhrgton
Roop, Frank Pomeroy
Rothermel, :i'rederiek Charles
Ruge, Henry August
Ruppel, Frank Centennial
Ryan, Russell Colqnllonn
Sanborn, Luther, P. lid.
Scheer, George
Schofield, William Frede1iek
Scott, William Stoddard
Seaton, Edward Momtue
Seccombe, Arthur Henry'
Seebeck, He1man Jurgen Martin
Seibel, Herbert Ca!']
Sessions, Charlel'J Benjamin
Shannon, Carleto11 Wm.
Shorb, Orren E(lward
Signor, Arthur Montgomery
Simmonds, UJy!Mfls Seott
Simpion, :Mu:
Skau, .T orgen Nisse•
Skillicorn, A.rlb.nr Edward
Slocumb, Hall
Smith, Benjamin Joel
Smith, John WlUiam
Standart, Witliaa Remy
Stolzenwald, Rudolf Ji'.
Steffens, Gen:119 Winfield
Stevenson, Ed1fin 1ohn
Stewart, Joel L@D!Jey
Stoltz, Chas. Malcolm
Stone, Leonard
Strange, Ralph Rae
Sturtevant, George Abram
Swanson, Vietor
Taylor, Pra•k James
Temple, JIUIIell Howard
Theisen, Adolph Ra.Iph
Thompson, Clarenee P.
Thompson, J oh11 E.
Thornagle, Alex. James

'fichnor, Austin K.
Trefz, Adolph Gustav
Vincent, Laurence
Vinson, Joseph Carroll
Walker, Joshua
W alldorf, Harry
Walters, William .Tobn
Walther, Adolph Robert
Wardell, Justus S.
Watson, Oscar Joseph
Webber, Leslie Albert
Werner, Charles Frederick
Werner, Philip
W essitsch, Alexander
Whelden, Alexander Whelden

671

Whiteside, Roscoe Rex
Wholey, William N.
Wihr, Max George
Willey, George Henry
Wilson, Joseph Arthur
Wratten, Albert Drummond
Wratten, Frank Lawrence
Wright, Dudley Daniel
Yager, Philip
Yager, William Wasb.ington
Young, Edward Livinpton
Zietich, Antone
Zobel, Alfred Jacob
Zobel, .Taeob
Zobel, Newton Robert
-21i'i

· WITHDRAWN:
Luey, Roscoe Warren
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Phelps, Orlo

Borland, Robe1t

DIED:
Burbeck, William
Fredericksen, Peter

I

FRANCIS DRAKE LODGE, No. 376.
South San Francisco, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ephraim Nixon Brown, Master,
Charles Young, Chaplain,
South San Francisco, Cal.
George A. D. Kneese, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Winthrope McDonald, S. W., John Arnold Riordan, Jun. Deacon,
Joseph Gardner Walker, J. W.,
Edward P. Kauffmann Marshal
Fred Alonzo Cunningham, Treas.,
Harry Lear Holston, Steward, '
Henry Fletcher Mingledorff, Sec.,
Andrew Reinhardt Steward
South San Francisco, Cal.
Chester Hall Pratt'. Tyler. '

672

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
McDonald, George Franklin, P. M.
Allen, H. Thomas
McDonald, John Jani.es, P. M.
Bresnan, Timothy
McDonald, Wm. Winthrope
Britton, George Ed.
Mengledorff, Henry Fletcher
Broner, Peter David
Money, Walter Sydney
Brown, Ephraim Nixon
Nesbitt, William John
Cavassa, Harry Alexander
Newberry, George Andrew
Coffenberry, Wm. Henry
Nunes, Frank C.
Coombes, Samuel Arthur
0 'Toole, Francis Patrick
Cosper, Volney Bernard
Patchell, Robert Kelso
Cunningham, Fred Alonzo, P. M.
Patten, David Robt.
Davis, Charles William
Perham, George Lawrence
Dennison, Leonidas Richardson
Plymire, Davicl Brandley
Dessin, Harry W.
Plymire, harry Garritson
Edwards, Frank Porter, P. M.
R einhardt, Andrew
Eschelbach, Albert Joseph
Riordan, John Arnold
Guerra, John
Sch:neider, William Charles
Hamsher, Clarence F.
Scott,
Abbe Percival
Holston, George William, P. M.
"Silbreed, Peter ·
Holston, Harry Lear
Smith, Du Ray
Hoon, Malcom James
Snyder, Jesse Oglevee, P. M.
Hynding, Andrew
Stone, Arthur Allen
Jenevein, August Jacob
Styles, Harry Eckford
Jenson, Mattrup
Swinkoski, Fred Vincent
Jensen, Peter Fred 'k
Taylor,
James
Kauffmann, Alfred E.
Utt, James Garfield
Kauffmann, Charles Louis
Vanomen, Arnold
Kauffmann, Edward Philip, P. M.
Wagenkneckt, Louis F reel 'k.
Keith, Ivan Whitfield
Waibel, "John Ellard
Kneese, Geo. August D.
Walker, Joseph Gardner
Lawson, Edwin Richard
Wilson,
Eugene Coffee
Ludermann, Adolph Fred
Wilson, Robert Alex.
Martin, David Greenleaf
Young, Charles
Martin, William James
-GS
Zulk, Carl J .
McLean, Wm. Valentine

673

ARTESIA LODGE, No. 377.
Artesia, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Walter Donnelly, Master,
Artesia, Cal.
William Leander Scheifele, S. W.,
Horace Hinman Rockwell; J. W.,
William Harvey Smith, Treasurer,
Albert Tedd Frampton, Secretary,
Artesia, Cal.

Albrecht, Charles
Anderson, Andy H.
Ashleigh, Frank Dunette
Bnll, Walter Alfred
Bingham, Robert William
Borden, Walter Allen
. Byng, Benjamin Francis
Caldwell, Franklin Day
Carse, Levi
Corum, Ralph Halbrook
Costner, Albert Morris
Courtney, Joseph Edwin
Courtney, Zenith Maywood
Cox, Robert Matthew
Craig, Clarence Elliot
Dempsey, Thomas Ewing
Desmond, Fred
Dodd, James Henry
Dodd, William Frederick
Dohn, Phillip Carl
Dolley, Rolland Evert
Donnelly, Walter
Dougherty, Charles
Dougherty, James Lewis
Elliott, Paul Shadrach
Foote, Ralph Chester
Foster, John Thomas
Frampton, Albert Todd
43

William Leave~s Jencks, Chap/a£~,
Ernest Eugene Noon, Sen. De~~~1i.
Joseph Irving Keith, Junior Deaco1;,
Henry Milton Stanfield, Marshal
Andy H. Anderson, Steward, . '
Albert Ndson, Steward,
James Robert Gaines, Tyler.

MBMBERS:
Frampton, Ar.thur Edwin
Frampton, Douglas Lighten
Frampton, Franklin
Frampton, George Ree<l, P. :M.
Frampton, Walter Nelson
Felts, George Wesley
Gaines, James Robert
Gamble, Grant Elmer
tiamble, Guy Bennett, p, M.
Gillespie, Edwin Grant
G"ordon, Huntly Lennox
Hall, Walter Townsend
Hancock, Fielden
Hurley, William Walter
Jencks, Wm. Leavehs
Keith, Joseph Irving
Marchbank, Robert Bruce
Mathews, Lynn Ward
McKinney, Myron Robert
Mills, John Benjamin
Morgan, James Madison
Morse, Fred Theo. .
Nelson, Albert
Newcomb, Gewin
Niemes, John Herman
Noon, Ernest Eugene
Norton, Frank Logan
Phillips, Wm. Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER

674
Purdy, Fred Hiram, P. M.
RadforJ, Elmer Garfield
Randall, Jay Elisha
Riave, Louis Ruben, P. M.
Rockwell, Horace Hinmann
Sackett, Willil!-m Alford, Jr.
Sackett, Joseph David
Sanderson, Andrew Jessie
Sargent, Adelbert S.
Scheifele, William Leander
Smith, Clyde Loomis

Smith, Jay Guy •
Smith, William Harvey
Stanfield, Henry Milton
Thowsoll, Elias
Ward, John Edward
Ward, Pirl Thomae
Watts, George Newton
Whipple, Carl Howard, P. M.
Williams, James Monroe
Woodward, Samuel Gideon

-77

MIZPAH LODGE, No. 378.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
M11sonic Temple.
OFFICEBS:

George Roland Harrison, Master, Albert Bascom Waddingham, Chap.,
152 W. 68th Street.
Benson Frank Tollman, Sen. Deacon,
Holcomb Rhees MacLafferty, S. W ., Lyman Brumbaugh Stookey, l . D.,
Forney Edwin Burt, Jun ior Warden, Walter Harrison Ulm, Marshal,
Carl Allen Stustman, Treasurer,
Gale Bonney, Steward,
Clyde Otis Lynn, Secretary,
William Clifford Wells, Steward,
650 E. 23d Street.
Adolph Jules Maas, Tyler.

Altom, Arthur Abner
Anc.lerson, August Theodore
Anderson, Edward Wirte
Andrews, Samuel Canon
Avery, Edwin Henry Butte
Babcock, William Wesley
Bacheller, Horace Charles
Baker, Fred
Baker, Samuel Luther
Barnard, Albert William
Barnett, William Brant
Barraclough, Geo. Alfred
Battram, Henry Samuel
Beall, Jesse Thoe.
Benge, Ellis Elton

MEMBERS:
Bennett, Herbert Lafayette
Blal'kburn, Irwin William
Blackburn, Samuel Garfield
Blaylock, Galvin Harvey
Bonney, Carl
Bonney, Gale
Booth, George, Jr.
Booth, George, Sr.
Boyd, Ambro11e
Boyd, Charles Arthur
Bo1·kheim, Milton
Bowe, Martin Ralph
Bowen, Albert John
Bowers, Alexander Oscar
Bowman, Arthur Eugene

-

Brigham, Frank Hartwell
Brisco, Wilfred
Brock, Allison Arthur
Brogan, Joseph Andrew
Brown, Albert Allen
Brown, Francis N. ·
Brown, James Leonidas
Brown, Oroville Eli
Brown, Theodore Stanley
Browning, Finley
Browning, J. Edward
Bruce, Albert Williatte
Bruce, :rrank Leander
Buck, Karl Phillip
Bullmer, Charles
Burt, Don Cameron
Burt,' Forney Edwin
Bush, William Jay
Ualder, Hugh Forrest
Calder, James William, P. M.
Campbell, Otis Augustus
Carroll, Frank Daniel
Cass, Ernest Dee
Castle, Augustus Brent
Castleman, Casey Martin
Chollar, James Ralph
Christiansen, Carl
Colton, George Felt
Colyear, Curtis Calhoun
Comport, Herbert Chas.
Cotton, Lendel Merritt
Couchman, Harry Hanver
Cranston, Charles S.
Creciat, Charles Henry
Creciat, George Lee
Creeiat, William Lewis
Cremer, Christian Peter
Creamer, Carimon Judson
Crocker, Rowland Harris
Cromer, George Frederick
Crumb, Wm. Franklin
Davies, Edward Wm.
DeBlois, Fred 'k Henry
Dickerson, Edgar ARhbury
Dille, Clinton Francisco ·

Ditty, Thomas Ross
Dode.I, George Melville
Donaghy, Frederick
Donaghy, George
Downe, Alexanc.ler Byers
Dwyre, Percy Golding
Edwards, De Witt
Edwards, John
Ehlers, William Henry
Ellsworth, James Augustus
England, Walton Sherman
Ernsberger, Raymond J.
Felt, Arthur Bullard
Fisher, Charles Dewees
Fisher, John Meander
Fisher, William Frank
. Fitch, Harry Jay Maynard
Fletcher, Joel Conklin, P. M.
Fragner, Donald
Frampton, James Alex., Jr.
Frankston, Robert
Freedman, Gustave
Fry, Arthur B.
Fulsom, Harry Alonzo, P. M.
Gabriel, Basil Simon
Gaill, Oliver J.
Gardner, Arthur Clayton
Gates, Louis Douglas
Gattone, Domenico
Gifford, Alrien Wilson
Gillespie, Richard Johnson
Goge, Max
Golding, George Washington
Gonzalez, Alvin Ralph
Goodan, Roger
Goodman, Hugo James
Goodreau, Thomas Jones
Gordon, George Barr
Gough, Fred Hedreck
Groff, Lloyd Packer
Graham, Albert Edward
Graham, Alfred Henry
Graves, Wesley Rich~rd
Green, Albert Price
Greene, Chas. Harold

<i76

ROSTER

ROSTER

Gregory, Answyl Owen
Gregory, George Washington H.
Gresswell, Herbert Kemp
Griswold, Bertie Arthur
Guedemann, Reinhard Fred 'k, Jr,
Haddix, George John
'
Hagenbaugh, William Louis
Hammond, Claire Wesley
Harmon, Lloyd William, P. M.
Harris, Henry Howard
Harris, Nicholas Boilvin
Harrison, George Rowland
Hart, Frank Layton
Hartson, J:ohn Louis
Hathaway, Dexter Chamberlain
Hermanns, Frank Joseph
Herr, Roy Mayer
Hickock, Harry Carlos
Hickock, William Roy
Holland, Ulysses Grant
Hood, Charlie Garfield
Hood, Glenn Caywood
House, Austin Reed
House, Beverly White
House, John
Howard, Austin Fay
Hubbell, William Henry
Hughes, Joseph Robert
Hugo, Maurice L.
Hummell, William August
Hunter, Calvin Fillmore
Hurt, Alfred Deavor
Hussey, George Alex.
Irwin, Theodore John
Ivy, James Lancnear, P. M.
Jackson, Charles Franklin
Jackson, Charles W.
Jacobs, Louis Bernard
Jarrett, Carl Monroe
Johnson, Peter Engelbert
Johnson, Wm. Gordon
Jones, Joseph
Jones, Thomas Lewis
Jowett, Oliver Atkinson
Keller, Leopold

Kelley, Harry Aurtiss
Kennedy, James Henry
Kent, Fred W.
Kersey, Richard Wakefield
Kerwin, John Mc Hale
Kidd, John E.
Kidwell, Oswald Gregory
Kincaid, Charles
King, Alma Lester
King, Harry Wm.
Kittredge, Charles Heber Francis
Koehler, Philip Henry
Koontz, Raymond Roscoe
Korngut, Samuel
Kremer, John
Kroesen, Samuel Ward
Kmg, Walter
Lankheet, Herman
Laventhal, Leo Edward
Lembcke, Albert Emile
Lewis, Georiie Myrick
Libby, Arthur Albion
Lindsay, Joseph Brown
Linn, Clyde Otis
Liston, John Grant
Lovell, Henry George Aldersey
Lovie," Edward Burns
Luedke, Otto Reed
Mass, Adolph Jules
Mabry, Urb
MacLa:fferty, Halcomb R.
Maguire, James Harvey
Mansfield, Fred Alma
Marchese, Bartholomew, P. M.
Marcus, Oscar Rudolph
Marsh, Elmer Francis
Marston, Edward
Martin, John Henry
Matheny, Ira Harry
Mathew, Lea
Mattern, George Stewart
May, Ora H.
Mayer, Chauncey Harrison M.
McClintock, Arthur Polk
McClure, John

-

McCuen, Thomas B.
McGee, James Lyon
McGruder, James
:McKee, W erno Ennis
McLeod, Harry William
McMillian, Wm. Claude
Mendelsohn, Manny Solomon
Merrill, John Bellj.
Meyfarth, Fred Christopher
Middleton, Albert Thomas
Miller, Daniel
Miller, 'l'homas Sylvester
Miller, Ulysses Grant
Miner, David Barlow
Mohr, Hermann
Mondon, Edward Paul
Moore, Frank Grandville
Moore, Grover Cleveland
Moore, Roy Enos
Moses, Thomas William
Munger, Delavan Arnold
Newell, John Thoma11
Newkirk, Morris Irwin
Nichols, Bert Bates
Nolan, Arthur William
North, John Edward
Odell,. James B.
Orr, Frank Lewis
Owen, John
Page, Eziba Stanford
Pardo, David Jacob
Parsons, Geo. Custer
Penne, Geo. Faustin
Pentland, Richard Conney
Perrins, John Edward, P. M.
Peterson, Arvid He,.bert
Philip, William Stewart
Phillips, Hiram Worth
Phillips, Richard
Pickering, Jame1 MelTin
Pister, Charles Christian
Powell, Herman H.
Powell, James Rice
Porteous, Robert Herbert
Potter, George D.

Prugh, Julian J usco
Quaglino, John
Raftery, Michael Roy, P. M.
Raftery, Thoma.s Albert
Redmond, Clement James
Reimers, Henry Peter
Richards, William Towner
Richards, William Wuhington
Richardson, Bertrand K.
Riley, Frank Leslie
Robb, Charles Myron
Roberts, William Nathaniel
Robinson, Paul Dunne
Rolfes, William Charles
Rosenmayer, Jacob J.
Ross, Jacob
Roth, Henry
Rothfuss, Chrietian Frederick
Royer, Benj. Franklin Simeon
Rutter, Amos Henry
Rutter, William Tayler
Sanders, Erast111 Neal
Schmidt, Jack William
Schneider, Julius Charle11
Schofield, Herbert A.
Schwerdtfeger, Julius
Scott, Adolph Elmer
Sebastian, Charlee Edward1 p,' M.
Selkirk, Thomae Landalls
Shepherd, Harry Walter
Sherrard, Edward Everett
Sills, Joseph Luther
Skinner, Alfred Eugene
Sleeth, Edgar Langdon
Small, Fred Fulton
Smidt, Julius
Smith, Glenn Harvey
Smith, Oscar
Snyder, Charles Frank
Sorrells, Earl
Stadler, Wm. Joseph
Stern, Harry
Stevens, Carwin Worth
Stitt, Frank Henry
Stone, Will Ernest

677

U78

ROSTER

Stookey, Byron Polk
Stookey, Lyman B.
Story, Byron Thomas
Stutsman, Carl Allen
Sugarman, Marcus Mothel
Sullivan, Chester Adison
Sullivan, Frank Lowell
Sweger, Fra.nklin Dyson
Tallman, Benson Frank
Taylor, Edward Alfred
Taylor, John Roberts
Taylor, Ora
Tenner, Geo.
Thorpe, Joseph Raymond
Toon, Rufus
Torosian, George Gregory
Tucker, Erving Palmer
Turner, Robert Morton
Tyrrell, Frank Gill
Ulm, Walter Harrison
Upham, Arthur Herbert
Utterback, John Louis
Valentine, AlbMt Randolpn
Van Hoose, Clyde
Van Horne, Martin Francis
Vervoort, Caesar
Viclar, John L.
Villalabos, Emil Romo
Virgo, George Edward
Volk, George Anton
Waddingham, Albert Bascom

'

Wagner, Will
Wanamaker, Geo. Hiram
Ward, Ben Ridgeway
Ward, Harry Wilfred
Ware, Ralph Franklin
Watkins, William Charles
Webb, Demascus Devorous
Weissert, Leopold Adolph
Welch, Charles Henry
Wells, Harry Herman
Wells, Wm. Clifford
Wenham, Thomas
Whisler, Norman Kerry
White, Oliver Orrin
White, William Ephriam
Wiese, Alva Premo Carlo
Wikholm, Eser
Williams, Alfreil Stanley
Williams, Charles Wesley
Williams, J. Frank
Wilson, Irwin Alex.
Winchester, Francis Orion
Wolfl', Frederick Au'gustus
Wood, Edward Robert
Wood, Geo. Palmer
Woolman, James Henry
Wright, Clifl'ord Andrew
Yeager, Matthias S.
Zeigler, Thomas Harry
Zimmer, Nathan Warren

WITHDRAWN:
Alderson, Francis Earl
Bardwell, Horatio John
*Barnum, Oliver 8hepard

Donehue, William Henry
Herron, Frank Crail
Jones, Guy
Kriege, Herman R. W.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUF.:S:
Allen, Harry C., Sr.
Butland, John Charles

Butland, Luke
Imus, Charles A.

ROSTER

679

EXPELLED:
Andrews, Fred L.
DIED:
Cooper, William Frank, Jr.
•Restored during the year.

. FILLMORE LODGE, No. 379.
Fillmore, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full :Moon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Edgar Robertson, Master, Thomas Wileman, Chaplain,
Fillmore, Cal.
Joseph William Gostrich, S. Deacon,
Thomas Felty Wileman, S . Ward., Walter Warren Newcomer, !. Deac.,
Carl Caswell Elkins, Jr., !. Ward., Henry B. Kays, Marshal,
John Boak McNab, Treasurer,
Ralph Elliott Burson, Steward,
Ira Loomis Hinckley, Secretary,
Charles Frederick Reeder, Steward,
Fillmore, Cal.
Stephen Beard Gilchrist, Tyler.

Alcock, Lorenzo Wm.
Allee, James Francis
Anderson, William Newton
Atkinson, ThomA11 Watson
Halcom, Henry Peter
Balcom, Miles
Baldeschweiler, Chas. L.
Baldeschweiler, John Gottleib
Barnes, Louis Lee
Beller, Charles Frederick
Bunilren, Ed.
Burson, Clarence Fowler ·
Burson, Edward Wright
Burson, George Washington
Burson, Ralph Elliott
Burson, Willis, P. M.
Cairns, Robert Knight
Coan, Walter Erling

MEMBERS:
Dorman, Eugene Earl
Elkins, Caswell Carl, Jr.
Fairbanks, Fergus Linn
Fleet, Walter Hugh
Froehlich, William
Gilchrist, Stephen Beard
Groff, William Henry
Guibersoil, Nathaniel Green
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Haines, Charles Herman
Hardison, Clifford Haines
Harthorn, Chas. Whitney
Hastings, Frank Gardner
Hemmelman, Criss Anton
Hinckley, Ira Loomis, P. M.
Hinckley, John Powell, P. M.
Hulsey, William Roofus
Hurlbut't, Levi Gould

680

ROSTER

Kays, Henry B.
Keefe, Geo. Anton
Kenney, Benjamin Franklin
Lawton, John
Maw, Norman Francis
McNab, John Boak
McPherson, Eley Earl
Merritt, Bowman
Newcomer, Walter Warren
Phillips, George
Pyle, Everett Anderson
Resley, George
Resley, George Wa.shington
Robertson, Thom.as Edgar
Robinson, William Arthur
Sallee, Robert Franklin
Schumacher, Harry Benjamin

Vogel, Herman Gottleid

ROSTER

Shiells, William
Stephens, Richard, P. M.
Sutton, Edward Essington
Stoll, Adolf
Stowe, Osmer James
Trotter, John Poynty
Udall, Henry Douglass
Walker, James Harmon, P. M.
Walker, Jonathan Herbert
Warring, Alfred Adney
Webb, Gilbert Elisha, P. M .
Welch, Oscar Henry
Whaites, Joseph Lee
Wileman, Thomas
Wileman, Thomas Felty
Wileman, Wm. Harold
-6!1

WITHDRAWN:
*Meredith, Charles 'fDIED:
Walker, James

Darling, Edward Hiram, P. M.
Davis, Silas E.
Day, l-'rederick Herbert
Drew, Richard .
Fisher, Eugene Irving
Flawii, John Andrew
Fountain, Jesse ·cooley
Fowler, William
Fo::c, Ernest M.
French, Eugene Edwin
Gerhart, William Edward
Gillespie, Julius Milton
Graves, Ralph Emery, P. M.
Griffith, Andrew Wylie, P. M.
Hare, Euphrates Alden
Hare, Orel Clyde
Harman, Nathaniel Oscar
Harrison, Frederick Earl
Howard, Charles Henry
Huber, Orlando Henry, P. M.

681

Ingersoll, Cyrus Tweedy
Keseman, William
Kutzner, Clarence Edward
Lake, James Arthur
Lavering, Cecil Edgar
Little, Henry Boston
McDonald, John
Miller, George M.
Moore, Andrew Hamilton
Moore, George W.
Morehouse, Arthur W.
Nutt, Charles Robert
Promenchenkel, Charles
Pyle, Joshua Oscar
Shank, George Awitin, P. M.
Sundbye, Halfdan T.
Thompson, William Smith
Van Orman, Chester D.
Wardwell, George Warren

-45

WITHDRAWN:
*Pollard, Herbert James

•Atnllated during the year.
•Affiliated during the year.

HUNTINGTON BEACH LODGE, No. 38o.
H1Ultington Beach, Orange County.
Stated Meetings first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Joshua Oscar Pyle, Master,
George A. Shank, Chaplain,
Huntington Beach, Cal.
Richard Drew, Senior Deacon,
Halfden T. Sundbye., Senior Warden, Eugene Edwin French, Junior Deac.,
William Edward Gerhart,Jvn. Ward., Spencer L. Blodget, Marshal,
Henry Boston Little, Treasvrer,
George A. Corbett, Steward,
Cecil Edgar Lavering, Secretary,
Arthur W . Morehouse, Steward,
Huntington Beach, ·Cal.
Charles Promenchenkel, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Chapin, Roy H.
Blodget, Rush Maxwell
Blodget, Spencer Langdon, P. M.
Conaway, Oscar Bigelow
Corbett, George Albert
Bradbury, Edward Ray

OCEANSIDE LODGE, No. 381.
Oceanside, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Foll Moon.
OFFICERS:

Edwin Bruce Johansen, .Alaster,
William V. D. Nichols, Chaplain,
Oceanside, Cal.
Chester A. Craig, Senior Deacon,
Theodore Gustave Schultz, Sen. W., Thomas Henry Draper, J.vn. Deacon,
Eugene Clark Batchelder, Jun. W., ......_,, _____..__............,_..___.,.._, Marshal,
i<rederick William Ricke, Trcas11rer, Eugene Chaureaux, Steward,
George Addison Lane, Secretary,
George Alexander· Byron, Steward,
Oceanside, Cal.
Henry Leighton Newham, Tykr.

682

ROSTER

Ambrose, Wiley Dismukes
Helt, Arthur Hugh
Bl:'rry, Charles Lee
Byron, George Alexander
Casterline, Myron Nelson
Chaureaux, Eugene
Craig, Chester A.
Clrour.h. .To~enh Lloyd
Davis, Ira Woodard
Draper, Thomas
Griffes, Eugene Viele
Hansen, Niels Frederick
Harrington, Herbert E.
Hindle, Norman William
Johansen, Edwin Bruce
,Johnston, John
Jolley, Park Bolman

MEMBERS:
Lane, George Addison
Manning, John, P. M •.
Martin, Isaac
Martin, John Franklin, P. M.
Mntthewfl, Augustus Marion
Morrison, James Thompson, P. M.
Newham, Herbert L.
Nichols, Wm. Van Derveer, P. M.
Rieke, Frederick William
Rorick, David
Schultz, Theodore Gustave
Sharp, Joseph Loyd
Sloan, Ernest A.
Smith, George Grover
Sprmcer, Matthew W.
Stark, William Shepherd
Tulip, .John Albert, P. M.
-34

HIGHLAND PARK LODGE, No. 382.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meeting, secondMonday in each month.
Pasadena Avenue and Avenue Fifty-seven.
OFFICERS:

William Russell Morehouse, Chap.,
Arthur Dalton Bond, llfaster,
Gavin Witherspoon, Senior Deacon,
332 St. Andrews St.
Rollin Henry Morse, Sen. Warden, Alexander Nicolson; J u11. Deacon,
Ernest Edward Piere<:, Jun. Ward., Claude William Stowe, Marshal,
Ed Wells Hopkins, Steward,
Andrew J ackson Renner, Treas.,
Thomas Bruce Hamilton, Steward,
Edward Difani, Secrdary,
Robert Stewart, Tyler.
311 West Ave., 50.

Adams, Frank S.
Alfonso, Herbert Denis
Allyne, Ernest Osborn
Anderson, Arthur Torrence
Archibald, Richard Christie
Armstrong, John Z.

MEMBERS:
Atkinson, John Brown
Avery, Charles Daniel
Axelson, Gustavus Adolphus
Backus, John James
Bailey, Arthur Henry
Baker, Clyde Norris

ROSTER
Basse, Fred Douglas
Batty, Geo. Leonard
Beadle, Walter Edward
Beatty, James David
Beddow, John Nashville
Benson, ,L yndon Stuart
Bernard, Samuel
Birsh, Frank Charles
Blackstock, Nehemiah
Blair, Paul Loughridge
Blood, Willis Norton
Bodinus, Adolphus Newton
Bond, Arthur Dalton
Bowles, Arthur Cleveland
Bradford, Charles Raymond
Breese, Charles Frederick
Bricker, Clarence Douglas
Brier, William Wallace
Brock, Leo
Bronson, Edmond Butler
Brown, Charles Samuel
Brown, George Henderson
Brown, William Augustus
Buckwalter, George H.
Burns, Robert
Carter, Daniel Fouche
Carlson, Karl · David
Carter, Claud Cassius
Carver, Charles Elliott, P. M.
Cates, Charles Barker
Chambers, Charles John
Clmmbers, William Kirtley
Church, Clyde Melville
Clapp, Warren Lockwood
Clark, George
Clark, William Alton
Clarke, Norman Selby
Cliff, Charles Lee
Cline, George Thomas
Coffman, Burdett Nelson
Colby, Philip Dearbon
Coles, Thomas Richard
Condron, Griffith
Corbin, Walter Augustus
Cowd.en, Chauncey Gilbert

683

Crease, Arthur
Crisler, Lewis Allen, Sr.
Culliton, John William
Dahl, Olaf Madsen
De Masters, ~ndrew T.
Detwiler, Oscor Edward
De Yenney, Harry Rollin
Dietcher, Henry Louis
Difani, Edward
Dillman, Ira Frank
Dixon, Archibald John
Donnell, William Wendell
Douthit, John William
Duduit, James Edward
Dudley, Thaddeus L.
Dunlap, Frank Everett
Dunscomb, Guy Sheldon
Duntley, George Marshall, P. M.
Eaton, Frederick Mason
Eccleston, Howard, P. M.
Eddie, Guy Walton
Edwards, William Arthur
Ehlers, Adolph Washington
Ehlers, Otto John G;ustav
Elwell, James Frank
Fellows, Thomas
Ferguson, George, P . M.
Fergu11011., William
Fink, Hydalias Cyprian
Foster, Seth
Frederick, James Shaw
Fritz, James Aldis
Gaud, Richard Hamilton
Gettins, E<l. Hillery
Gitt, Charles Baker
Glahn, Robert Rodney C.
Good, Siclney Vincent
Good, Wilfrid Bernard
Graf, Albert Frederick
Grant, John McPherson
Graves, John Colburn
Gray, John Wellington
Gray, Robert Henry, P. M.
Haas, Harry Homer
Halsey, John George

684
Hamilton, Thomas Bruce
Handcock, Phillip
Hardy, Frank Raymond
Harrison, Donn Piatt
Hawley, James Overton
Hays, Robert Richard
Heath, Charles Rhode11
Henderson, John Willis
Henderson, Justin
Herendeen, Wesley Eugene
Hight, Genr~ Harry
Hill, Benjamin Franklin
Hill, Nathaniel Mill
Hilleary, Orville
Holt, Shirley Luther
Holton, Robert Goodyear
Hopkins, Ed. Wells
Hopkins, Marion David
Horwitz, Abraham Henry
Howard, Thomae Duncan
Howell, Ernest Frederick
Howell, Walter Henry George
Hubbard, Hubert Sylvester
Hubbard, John Frost
Hutchison, James Menter
Isbell, Elton Spencer
Jeffery, Elmore Robinson
Jenks, Edward Dyer
Johnson, Edgar Louis
Jones, Herbert Clinton
Judson, William Lees
Kennedy, William Homer
Ketchum, Marshall Bidwell
Kirby, Benj.
Kissinger, Chas. Vernon
Kissinger, Jacob Byron
Knapp, Joseph Roscoe
Knox, Harry Clifton, P. M.
Koerner, Paul Albert
Koster, Edward Louis
Larsen, Nels Marthinus
Lasher, Henry
Lathrop, Frank
Lawler, Luis Grover
Laws, Ovid, Jr.

ROSTER
Ledyard, Francis King
Leffler, Charles Blackburn
Lewis, Charles Douglas
Lock, George Ernest
Lovejoy, George Hazelton
MacKenzie, James Kenneth
Massie, Edward Darneby
Matthews, Stanley
Merkley, Harry Samuel
McCabe, James William
McCall, Chas. Edward
McCallister, Albert Bruce
McCrea, Thomas Pleasants
McDonald, James
McEwen, James Gilford
McFee, William Hamilton
McKenzie, Charles
McKinniss, Allen Dennis
Mentel, Edward Herman
J\1errill, Grayson
Meyers, Edward Frederick
Miles, Robert William
Mitchill, Franklin Rising
Montgomery, Charles William
Monzingo, John Johnson
Morehouse, William Russell, P. M.
Moore, Alton Howard ·
Moore, William Henry, Jr.
Morri.eon, Andrew Jacbo:c.
Morse, Rollin Henry
Murphy, Dennis
Murphy, Dennis Frank
Musgrove, John Joseph
Myers, William Parle
Myers, William Raymo•d, P. M.
Naegele, Geo. Herman
Neely, Wm. Winsett
Newton, Ellsworth G.
Nickell, Harry Bruce
Nicolson, Alexander
Norton, John
Owen, Elmo Nelson
Parker, Ivon Drouth
Parker, Stanford Devenport
Partridge, Wm. Edward Bridge

ROSTER
Perry, Wightman Chappell
Petty, Faunce Fern
Phillips, Edwin Roscoe
Phillips, Raymond Millard
Phipps, Edward
Pierce, Ernest Edward
Pierce, Rees Carr
Piper, Noah Twidney
Porter, Robert Edson
Powell, John Wesley
Prettyman, Raymond Thomas
Prettyman, William S.
Price, William
Prichard, Geo. Asbury
Ransom, Harry Eugene
Remington, Geo. Byron
Renfrew, Ont ario John
Renner, Andrew Jnckson, P. M.
Richards, Royal Francis
Riordan, Daniel
Rivers, Arthur Joseph
Robinson, Chas. Everett
Roby, Edwin Everett
Root, Frank Andrew
Roseberg, Samuel Robert
Rule, Orville Rey
'
Saakes, Otto Charles
Schaefer, Frank Robert
Scherer, Otto Max
Schulze, George William
Shane, Max R.
Shea, Richard Peter
Shepard, James Milton
Shoaff, Walter Randall
Simmonds, Frank
Smith, Charles H. D.
Smith, George Montgomery
Smith, Josiah Lathrop
Speake, Harold Edward
Sprncer, Roy Lucius
Spring, Arthur Logan
Stanley Byron De Roy
Stagg, Edward Houts

685

Steinberg, Harry
Stewart, Robert
Stowe, Claude William
Sullivan, Frank La Zelle
Teter, Francis Max
Thornton, James Edwin
Titus, Benjamin Greene
Trask, Frank E llsworth
Train, John Henry
Trew, Niel Charles
Truesdel, Ira
Trunick, John Stanford
Van Buskirk, Morris Henry
Van Cleave, Ralph Truman
Van Trees, P1rnl Jones
Vernon, Ellery Peace
Vincent, Fred Ezekiel, P. M.
Waddell, George Moore
Wall, Arthur Augustus
Wallace, Hugh Sinclair
Walker, Frederick Ernest
Walter, Henry Earnest
Walton, John Frederick
Watson, Harry Turner
Webster, Charles Adelbert
Weller, Harold Fraser, P. M.
West, Leslie Melvin
Westbrook, Leon Curry
Westergard, Pet er
W estphal, Hugo F red 'k.
White, Charles Edward
White, Hiram James
Whitmore, Walter Emery
Wigdal, Ole ~ohnson
Williams, James Perry
Willis, William
Willson, Leon
Witherspoon, Gavin
Wood, John Charles
Woolard, John William Lee
Yates, Sherman
Young, John Arthur
-277

686

ROSTER

ROSTER

Cushman, Herbert Wright
Hayden, Bert Leroy
Thorne, Henry John

WITHDRAWN:
Van Ornum, Allen Fish
Walter, Fred., Jr.
Waddington, Will Heigh

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Anderson, James Law
DIED:
Donnell, John Alexander

Ledbetter, Addison Goulder
Ledbetter, James Roy
Lowrey, Lee
Martin, Raymond Daniel
McCuaig, John Findlay
McPherson, JAromo "·.,Jr.
Oxford, Walter
Phillippe, Edward Strachey
Pigg, William Renard
Praudy, Chas. Herbert

Price, Thomas G.
Pugh, John James
Reed, John Rayson, P. M.
Rutherford, James Madison
Schulp, Peter
Smallin, Edgar Columbus
Trammel, George Foster
Trueblood, Wm. Erwin
Waggener, Robert Garrett
Wheeler, Austin Ellis

WITHDRAWN:
Bingham, Charles Erastus

OROS! LODGE, No. 383.
Orosi, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each montli

EL CENTRO LODGE, No. 384.

OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

El Centro,. Imperial County.
William M. Beinhorn, }Jaster,
Orosi, Cal.
.
Walter Oxford, Senior Warden,
Robert Garrett Waggener,/. W .,
Wallace V. Andrews, Treasurer,
Fred Wright Conkey, Secretary,
Orosi, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Campbell, Charles, P. M.
Angel, Linzey Coleman
Conkey, Eugene Albert
Andrews, Harry L.
Conkey, Fred Wright
Andrews, Wallace V.
Cowan, Harrison
Beinhorn, Charles Spurgeon
Davis, Frank
Beinhorn, Herman
Eifert, Ernest
Beinhorn, William M., P. M.
Flack, James Henry
Bernard, John Prentice
Garcia, Miguel Vilira
Blackledge, Lude Brennan·
Goodin, Orville Caughey
Blair, Franklin Leroy
Hamilton, James Starr
Blair, William Moffett
Harrison, Theodore E.
Bump, Addison JoJeph
Kiggens, Elmer E.
Bump, Charles Addfaou
Klika, John L.
Bump, Frank Norvell, P. M.
Knott, Bruce Forrest
Biswell, George Washingtui...
Knox, George Whitfield, P. M.
Blackledge, Lindley Ninde
Kremer, Henry John
Cahn, Gustave

OFFICERS:

Major Samuel Ccok, Master,
El Centro, Cal.
Philip David Swing, Se11. Warden,
Mont J. Reid, Junior Warden,
Franklin James Cole, Treasurer,
John Sn:dow Larew, Secretary.
El Centro, Cal.

Allen, William Chas.
Applestill, Charles M.
Baird, Parker Earl, P. M.
Baker, John Billingsley
Baker, Leonard Fairfield
Baker, William Vinton
Barker, Harry Learned
Beach, Thomas
Bliss, Anson L.
Brooks, William Henry
Buckle, Charles William
Buttram, John F.
Carl, Wm. Hewitt
Chaplin, Davitl Hognr, P. M.

Parker Earl Baird, -Chaplain,
Harry Learned Barker, S . D._.
Charles Napier Perry, Ju11. Dracou,
Charles L. Childers, Marshal,
Duane H . Timmons, Steward,
Harry Walter Krotz, Steward,
Robert L. Pakes, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Carter, Geo. A.
Cole, Franklin James
Collins, Chas. Walter
Cook, Major Samuel
Cooley, Lewis Ellward
Cram, Victor E.
Davis, Hugh Fentcn
Delozier, James Garland
Dunaway, Samuel William
Edgar, Ray
Elliott, George Wesley
Eshelman, John Morton, P. M.
Ferguson, Allan R.
Fisher, Charles Edward

ROSTER

688
Force, Thomas Franklin
Forrester, Edward E.
1''romme, Ernest A. William
Gage, Clarence Eddy
Griswold, Herbert C.
Hamilton, James Gray
Hamilton, Walter Owen, P. M.
Hamilton, William Pitt
Hedrick, Perry Lee
Hersee, Charles Harry
Holt, William Franklin
Hoskin,;, Raymond John
Johnson, M. Durward
.Jones, Guy
Jones, James Sylvester
Jones, William Clinton
Julian, John Montgomery
Kennedy, Geo. Ernest
Krotz, Harry Walter
Larew, John Snedow, P. M.
Leonard, Dan A.
MacCormac, Glee Emile
MacBratney, Kyle
Martin, Harry Garrett
McComb11, Virgil
McCoy, Wallace Isaac
McGuire, Jesse Lee
Meadows, Mobley A.
Miller, Ora Rufus, P. M.
Moore, Raymond Bayard
M<'rehouse, Howard W.
Nance, Ward Smith
Noland, Daniel Vorhees
Norton, John
Orr, Robert G.

Paine, Frederick William
Pearson, Harry Brownley, Jr.
Peters, Harry Arthur
Perry, Charles Napier
Peterson, Frederick William
Peterson, Herman Holger, P. M.',
Phillips, Peter Charles
Pier, Winthrop
Posten, Ernest
Prendergast, John Patrick
Putnam, Fred Barnes
Reading, Franklin
Reed, George H.
Reid, Nont J.
Rogers, Francis Augustus
Ross, John Stewart, P. M.
Salomon, Benjamin
Satterwhite, Raymond H.
Scott, Josiah Garfielu
§!eibert, Lee Charles
Sparks, Ira C.
Sprague, Walter H.
Stone, Walter Isbel
Swing, Phil D.
Thompson, Vaughn W.
Tichenor, Paul Baker
Timmons, Duane Harry
Vencill, Truman A.
Wachtel, John Valentine, Jr.
Wachtel, Leonard Rose
Waite, Fred Warren
Wing, Fernando Swith
Witt, Simon Nicholas
Zimmer, Samuel Blair
-lf1

DIED:
Waggoner, Walter A.

ROSTER

689

DINUBA LODGE, No. 385.
Dinuba, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Harry H. Moore, Master,
Joseph Fountain Cauby, Chaplain,
Dinuba, Cal.
John Collins Hicks, Senior Deacon,
Ambrose Nevin Sharer, Sen. Ward., Roy Tilford Demaree, Jun. Deacon,
Samuel Earnest Burum, Ju11. Ward., James Stanley Fullard, Marshal,
William Bates Nichols, Treasurer, Irwin Vose, Steward,
Henry Wilson Ensign, Secretary,
Isaac Vanmeter Ayers, Steward,
Dinuba, Cal.
Henry Huston Burum, Tyler .
MEMBERS:
Akers, Walter Byron
E'.lournoy, William Venable
Arthur, Tom
Fraser, Abner, P. M.
Ayer, Isaac Vanmeter
Fuller, Erwin F.
Barr, William Nelson
Fullard, James Stanley "
Giffen, Gordon Culbertson
Barris, Emery
Greene, Joe Elmer
Bennett, Horace II.
Grimsley, Virgil H.
Botts, Tilden Hendricks
Harbert, Rex Perry
Burum, Henry Horley
Hauser, Walter Cisero
Burum, Samuel Ernest
Hedgpeth, George Foster P., P. M.
Burum, William Malcolm
Hicks, John Collins
Callison, Robert Henry
Johnson, Daniel Francis
Carrigan, Charles
Kash, David Harrison
Cash, John Simpson
Kirk, Robert Johnstone
tauby, Joseph Fountain
Lushbaugh, James J.
Cairns, William Joseph
Lynch, William Albert
Clotfelter, J. Rene, P. M.
Mackersie, Wm. Moore Young
Collins, John Walter
McCracken, James Henry
Conrad, Eli Perkins
Mccorkle, Eugene Henry
Cress, Jacob Daniel
Moore, Earl Morton
Day, William Fredrick
MC1ore, Fred Wilford
Demaree, Roy Tilford
Moore, Harry H.
Dechman, William James
Morton, Richard Ephraim
Dewhirst, Roy Daniel
Mugg, Benjamin F.
Dihel, John Wesley
Nichols, William Bates
Dopkins, George Madison, P. M.
Osterhout, George William
Doyle, Geo. Washington
Page, Edward Joseph
Dunn, George Ambrose, P. M.
Pillsbury, Joseph Davis
Ensign, Henry Wilson, P. M.
44

ROSTER

690

Prestidge, George Roy
Reynolds, Junius Adrian
Rhodes, John Livingston, P. M.
Scruggs, Eldridge Cade W.
Sibley, Elmer
Scoggins, Andrew Jackson
Sharer, Ambrose N.
Snyder, Charles G.
Staton, John Sylvester

Threlkeld, Clarence Clifford
Tillotson, Clarence A.
Vose, Irwin
Wasgatt, Archie Barton
White, Frank Low
Whittington, Chas. Roy
Whittington, William
Woods, William
Wyman, William Christie, P. M.-74

WITHDRAWN:
Scrivner, Chester

COALINGA LODGE, No. 387.
Coalinga, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursdi-..y in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harry Merle Miller, Master,
William James Cox, Sen. Deacon,
Box 355, Coalinga, Cal.
John Andrew Fleutsch, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Albert Brown, Sen. Warden, Eldred Vischer Knight, Marshal,
Joseph Bertram Wright, Jun. War., William Henry Halford, Steward,
Henry Clinton Kerr, Treasurer,
Howard Carlton Ensign, Steward,
Henry L. Seavers, Secretary,
Samuel A. Davis, Tjrler.
Box 57, Coalinga, Cal.
Abbott, Frank Elwin
Andre, Robert Clement
Anthony, Herbert William
Barber, George Wilson
Barnett, James
Bair, Winfield Scott, Jr.
Beckley, Ruben Elmer
Berney, Edward Plummer
Byles, James Henry
Boles, Merle Lee
Booth, Elmer Lewis
Boyce, Wilfred Harry, P. M.
Brown, Charles Albert
Brown, Edwin Thomas
Brown, George Elmer
Buchanan, Lewis Rogers

MEMBERS:
Camp bell, Richard
Charlesworth, Benjamin William
Christie, Frederick James
Clinton, Harry Bailey
Colldeweih, Dederick Frederick
Collins, William Nelson
Colon, Walter Elnor
Coovert, Robert Tilman
Cox, William James
Creagor, William Douglass
Crozier, Hubert R.
Daniel, Lester Aaron
Davis, Charles Ernest
Davis, Harry Sprague
DeBolt, Leslie Lamond
Duncan, Lee Allen

ROSTER
DeLoug, Daviu Magee
Du Brutz, Lucias Allen
Eastwood, Charlie Allen
Echols, Albmous Ben
Eshenbaugh, Wm. Dexon
Everitt, Herbert John
Eversmeyer, Louis Edward
Edland, Charles Frederick
Eibe, Harry Leslie
Ensign, Howard Carlton
Fitzgerald, Charles William
Fearon, William Edward
Finch, James McGronther
Fleutsch, John Andrew
Fuqua, Isham W.
Garretson, Ralph Gardiner
Garrigan, William Henry
Gormley, Ulysses Sheridan
Gormley, Curtis Vaneman
Greer, William Allison
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Guiberson, William Richard
Hager, Dorsey
Halford, Wm. Henry
Hamilton, Lemon Ward
Hamilton, Frank Dana
Heinzen, Frank Xavier
Hendrickson, John McElhaney
Hinkle, George Washington, P. M.
Houghton, Fred 'Clayton
Howell, Watson Isaac
Hughes, George Mark
Hummel, James Clarence
Hutchinson, Charles Wesley
Hutchinson, L. M.
Johnson, Albert Garrard
Johnstone, John Irving
Jordan, Elmer Crawford
Keeler, Ernest Clifton
Kerr, Henry Clinton
King, Roberson Jefferson
Kinney, Charles Lewis, P. M.
Kitely, Robert James
Knight, Eldred Vischer
Knowles, George

Kocher, Paul
Kyle, Walter Scott
Law, Charles
Lawson, Orris Glory
Lefever, Howard
Livermore, John W.
Lovell, Everett Richard
MacDonald, Eugene C.
Marten, James Harvey
Mccutcheon, William Grant
McKnight, Wm. Copeland
McLemore, Calvin Arthur
McPhearson, Edward Evert
McWreath, Frank
Meau, Joseph Benjamin
Miller, Harry Merle
Miller, Luther Herbert
Mills, Samuel Ernest
Mitchell, Arthur Prentiss
Mulholland, Eugene
Murray, Hawley Scott
Mong, Elmer Willis
Montgomery, Bartlett Edward
Morris, Harry Nelson
Nay, Orvis Winfred
Parsons, Charles Jenkins
Pauson, Edward Hyam
Peck, Frank Elroy
Pedder, Stanley
Peters, William Kern
Phillips, William Franklin
Pierce, J. Harry
Pierce, James· Henry
Pirie, Robert Edward
Porter, Sylvester Douglas
Richmond, Henry Stuart
Robinson, Harding Ellison, P. M.
Rosette, Eugene Joseph .
Sanderson, Charles Nelson
Schattenberg, Theo. Andrew
Seavers, Henry L., P. M.
Service, Ashley Ewing
Shafrath, Max
Sloan, Don Carlos
Smith, Alford Washington

li9t

ROSTER

692
Smith, James Herbert
Smith, Thomas Pomroy
Stranahan, John Henry
Stites, Joseph Augustus
Stranahan, William
Thore, Felix Albin
Thorpe, George Channing
Torrey, Charles Levi
Trumbull, Louis Thomas
Vernard, William Freeman
Waite, Arthur Thomas
Walthall, Octavius Alex.

Bolser, Ray Frederick

ROSTER

Ward, Jesse Edmond
Webb, Arthur Ernest
Webb, John Hickley
Welden, William Perey
Wells, Jack Eugene
White, Samuel Addison
Whitsell, John Jackson
Williams, Oscar J.
Woodruff, Isaac Ogden
Woodburn, William A.
Wright, Joseph B.

-145
WITHDRAWN:
Hirshfeld, Monroe Louis
Kidd, Archie M.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT • OF DUES:
Shaffer, Howard McKinley
D:!ED:
Lackey, John Harvey
Dobson, Howard Richard
' Murphy, Charles Ashley
Geddes, Byron Levern
Rogtirs, David Thompson

PARNASSUS LODGE, No. 388.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
Twelfth Avenue and Irving Street .
OFFICERS:

Edward Frank Louideck, Master,
John Samuel Gray; Chaplain,
1341 12th Ave.
Thomas Allen Cavanagh, S. Deacon,
Thomas Jackson. Green, S. Warden, Clifford Thomas Dorman, J. Deacon,
Henry Lewis Todd, Junior Warden, Horace Reuben Spaulding, Marshal;
Frederick William Koenig, Treas., Charles Mortimer Kellogg, Steward,
William Albert Hoyt, Secretary,
John Cornelius Doest, Steward,
1526 10th Ave.
Edward Barnes, Tyler:

MEMBERS:
Adams, Frank Bertram
Edinger, Ignatius
Adams, Nelson Julius, Jr.
Engel, .Fred George
Allen, William Wallace Jr., P. M. Engel, Walter Gerhard
Anderson, Karl Gustav
Farrow, C~s. Wm.
Axford, Wm. Alexander
Feasey, Alfred Henry
Ferguson, Daniel B.
Barlow, William
Fisk, George Marshal
Barnes, Edward
Fletcher, Edgar Roy
Beaver, John Crawford
Flynn, James Latham
Beha, Charles Frederick
Foree, Harold Wade
Bennett, Wm. Forest
Fox, August William
Bensen, Harry Jeffs
Frederick, Ray John
Bergner, Gustav Paul F.
Bohannan, Willis George
Furness, Edgar Larue
Garrett, Thomas Spillsbury
Brekke, Lawrence
Getz, Theodore
Breyer, Samuel Thompson
Goicovich, John George .
Broaddus, Oscar James
Brown, George Abram
Gofl', Charles
Brown, Robert Morrison
Gray, John Samuel
Brundage, Charles Edward
Gray, Ralph Wendell
Brundage, Charles Stratton
Green, Joseph . ·
Bryon, Benjamin
Green, Sinon
Green, Thomas J aekilon
Butt, Peter Deiijrieh
Button, Earl William
Gregory, James Robert
Callow, Charles. Henry .
Gregory, John Meredith
Carleton, Edwin Herbert
Griebnow, Frederick Guillermo
Cavanagh, Leslie Alonzo
Haste, Lawrence Bever17
Cavanagh, Thomas Allen
Heck, Roy
Chaquette, Albert Bernard
Heilmann, Ludwig
Christiansen, Jens Peter
Hendricks, William Henry
Hess, Hiram Adrian
Collister, Matthew Fearn
Hoffman, Albert Frederick
Conner, Samuel Amanual
Holding, Robert Samuel
Cox, Edward ·
Hopkins, Louis
Cox, Levitt Howard
Howland., George Henry
Crabtree, George Leland
Hoyt, James Merton, P. M.
Cree, Willi.am Arthur, P. M.
Hoyt, William · Albert
Doest, J11hn . Cornelius
Hughes, William Charles
Dolter, Albert Louis
Dorman, Clifford Thomas
Hunn, Percival Sidney
Hunt, Reuben Heywood
Draeger, George Vietor
Drake, Harry Ellsworth
Irvine, R icll'ard
Irvine, Thomas
Dresser, Fra'.!lk Benjamin
Irwin, Thomas ·
Dykeman, John Joseph

G93

ROSTER

694
·Iverson, Gerhard Warner
James, John Clarence
Jane, Wm. Treganowan
JeBBon, Walter Henry
Job, M. Harry
Johansen, Soren Frederick
Johnson, Henry Charles
Johnston, Andrew Lewis, P. M.
Johnston, Archibald Hope
Johnstone, Maurice
Jones, Robert William
Jordan, Frederick William
Jordan, Lewis Sidney
Kaighin, John Ceasar
'Kaufner, Bruno
Kellogg, Chas. Mortimer
Kenney, William
Kerr, George Pringle
King, William H11-rry
Kingsland, George Raymond
Kleespies, Louis George
Koenig, Wm. Diedrick
Lafferty, James Thomas
Lee, Bunyan Wright
Levis, Thomas
Lewis, Martin John
Little, John
Little, William
Limbaugh, William Albert
Logie, Thomas
Long, James Francies
Longworth, Thomas
Louideck, Edward Frank
Love, Frank Norris
Loveland, Harvey Arthur
Macdonald, James Stuart A.
MacKay, Ralph Stuart
Makinson, John William
Marden, Albert Hammond
Marsh, George Warren
Martin, Andrew
Mathieson, Chester Smith
Martin, John Henry
Maxson, Wesley Searles

695

ROS'fJo~it

McCallum, Geo. Stirling
Mc}'arlane, Arthur Henry
McKay, Richard Samuel
McKee, Wilbur John
McLennan, James Alexander
McNulty, Albert Henry
McWhirter, Willis J. B.
Mengel, John, Jr.
Miller, William Rob
Millner, William Prosper
Mitchell, William Henry
Mitchell, William Wilson
Moehrle, Chas. Edward
Morris, David Reese
Myers, Henry William
Nash, Bert
Nelson, Norman
Newton, Harry Earl
~unemacher, Arthur H.
Parker, Albert William
Parker, William Chesley
Paterson, Nelson James
Pederson, Peder
Peery, Chester Smith
Pitcher, Elmer Cyrus
Quirey, Chas. Thomas
Ragland, Jay Gould
Randall, Earl Cree
Redpath, James William
Reese, Clement Tyree
Reimer, Otto
Remmel. Alva Jacob
Rickon, Harold John
Riffee, Clarence Walter
Rock, Peter
Rodin, John
Rutherford, James Andrew
Saville, Harry Darius, P. M.
Schellpeper, Conrad August
Schirmer, Otto Henry
Schoonmaker, Marius
Scott, Harvey Roy
Segelken, Harry Herman
Shannon, Robert Veazey

Shaw, Charlie
Shelby, Thomas Evan
Sherwood, Stanley Edward
Smith, Byrd Oliver
Smith, Wesley Dixon
Snibley, Harvey Blanchard
Snyder, Geo. Samuel
Somers, Harry Hayden
Spaulding, Horace Reuben
Sperry, Jared Boardman
Stannard, Albert Clinton
Stauffer, Roy Alton
Stille, Otto Ferdinand
Stolz, Henry Fred
Sunder, Frank Christel, P. M.
Theriot, Joseph Edward
Thompson, Walter Alexander
Thumler, Henry William
Tobin, Austin Weston

Callender, Monroe Nathan

Todd, Henry Lewis
Tooker, Simeon Edmund
Totten, Clair Harry
Trezise, Albert George
Turnbull, William Harvey
Valentine, Daniel Fred
Walker, Fred 'k Clinton
Ward, Ivan Lewis
Waterhouse, Lincoln Orin
Wessling, Wm. Henry
Wetz, Leonhard John
Wiley, Ralph Wilson
Williams, John Butler
Williams, Oscar Floyd
Wishard, Gt>orge Litel
Woods, Wynne Gray
Yates, Walter Henry
Youman, Burt Cain
-209

WITHDRAWN:
Ennor, Pellow Langford

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Quinby, Manfred De Hart

PALOS VERDES LODGE, No. 389.
Long Beach, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Wednesday in eaeh month.
OFFICERS:

Frank C. Blair, Master,
]. Lynn Avery, Chaplain,
534 E. 4th St., Long Beach.
James Joseph Harvey, Sen. Deacon,
Fred W . McCullah, Senior Warden, Ernest Andrew Stevens, lttn. Deac.,
Thomas James Calloway, Jun. Ward., Joseph Daniel Trussell, Marshal,
George Eli Harris, Treasurer,
William Frederick Mencke, Steward,
Edward Stephen Acres, Secretary, George Ronald Wil~on, Steward,
1517 East 2nd St.
Rufus Merrill Davis, Tyler.

696

ROSTER

ROSTER

697

MEMBERS:
Acres, Edward Stephen
Archer, Ernest Everard, P. M.
Avery, J. Lynn
Babb, Wm. Edgar
Barcume, Geo. Rollins
Bell, James
Blair, Frank C.
BonJ, Benjamin Franklin
Brakeman, James Henry
Bulfum, Charles Abel
Cadwallader, Jacob Edward
Caldwell, Burr Lafler
Calloway, Thomas James
Carroll, John
Cate, Dallas Mason
Chittenden, Horace W.
Cleveland, Charles Herbert
Cook, Earl Lewis
Cook, William David
Covert, William H.
Crowe, Frank Austin
Crutts, D. Karr
Davis, Harvey R.
Denio, Elon Carlton
Detwiler, Wm. Howard
Dixon, Abraham
Dodge, Howard Lewis
Dotson, Edward Franklin
Dunbar, James Ebert, P. M.
Dunn, John S.
Dunn, Orton Carrie
Ellsworth, Chester
Forsyth, John Middleton
Galer, William Arthur
Gaskill, Denton L.
Green, Andrew Jackson
Harris, George Eli
Harvey, James Joseph
Hea;rtwell, Charles Leonard
Hewitt, John, P. M.
Hoodenpyle, George L.
Huntington, Charles Elmer

Isaacs, J. Webber
Jenkins, Herbert A.
Leebrick, Robert John
Malcom, Charles
Malone, Augustine Charles, P. M.
Mccullah, Fred W.
Mencke, Wm. Fred 'k.
McDonald, Wm. Bynum
Middough, William
Miller, Arthur John
Morris, Harry Howell
Mosher, Evan
Motte!l, Joseph Jasson
Parkinson, Henry Fitzgerald
Parmley, Arthur Lynn
Pillsbury, Henry L.
Porterfield, Austin Roy
Shaul, Marion J.
Smith, Courtney N.
Smith, Lewis Ruffner, Sr.
Smith, Lewis R., Jr.
Sparks, John W.
Sparks, Jefferson Cameron
Speer, Albert Howard
Starmont, Carl C.
Starr, Edward J.
Stevens, Ernest Andrew
Stevens, William F., P. M.
Terry, Roy Albert
Thorndike, Geo. Edward
Towne, Amos Aquiller, P. M.
Trussell, Joseph Daniel
Tucker, Benj. F.
Vance, Alpheus J.
Vance, Calbert Lee
Varney, Frank L.
Wallace, William Haveloch
Wilson, Geo. Ronald
Will!on, R. Lee
Windham, Charle!! Henderson
Yoder, Georg!) Newton
Young, William Howard
-84

Baker, Frederick
Morgan, Jesse Josiah

WITHDRAWN:
Parker, John Robert
8immons, Charles Leonard
•8mith, Maurice Le Roy

•Degrees conferred during the year.

IMPERIAL LODGE, No. 390.
Imperial, Imperial Connty.
Stated Meetings, 2nd Monday in each month.

OFFICERS:
George Ernest Heber, Master,
William Rankin Stevenson, Chaplain,
Imperial, Cal.
John Turner Rice, Senior Deaco11,
Charles W . Waite, Senior Warden, Olaf William Larson, Ju11ior Deacon,
Ervin Drayton Stuart, Jun. Warden, Harry Northrup Dyke, Marshal,
Eugene Kellogg Carrier, Treasurer, John Howard Morgan, Steward,
Byron H. Cook, Secretary,
Ira Barnes Funk, Steward,
Imperial, Cal.
Earl Blaine Ingle, Tyler.
:MEMBERS:
Allen, William Henry
Edgar, William Archibald
Bear, Guy Clinton
Farnsworth, Louis Frederick
Beck, John H.
Farr, Finis Calvert
Bixby, Samuel Munson
Funk, Ira Barnes
Breetllove, Roy Elmer
Galway, Ney Cajus
Gentieu, Geo. Wm.
Brewer, Herbert William
Gross, Warren Frank
Bumgarner, George Marion, P. M.
Carrier, Eugene Kellogg
Hartshorn, William Henry
Conser, William Daniel
Heber, Geo. Ernest
Cook, Byron H., P. M.
Hickok, Harry
Hinderks, Wm. Oliver
Copenhaver, .Davis Denton, P. M.
Hockenberry, Myron B.
Cuthbertson, Harry John
Daniels, Elmer Lee
Holland, Joseph Henry
Daniels, Walter Hibbard
Holt, Leroy
Dutcher, Gordon Leroy
Huston, James Drummond
Dutcher, Merton Victor
Ingle, Earl Blaine
Dyke, Harry Northrup
Jackson, Arthur Gilman
Edgar, Arthur
Keys, William Seott
Edgar, John Herbert
Knupp, Chas. Aaron

ROSTER

ROSTER

698

Larson, Olof William
Lawrence, George Cecil
McBride, James Arthur
McPherrin, Roy Davidson, P. M.
Miller, Henry A. F.
Morgan, John Howard
Morgan, Thomas Edward
Oak, Ralph Lane, P. M.
Reid, George Hunter
Rice, John Turner
Salisbury, Frank Melvin
Salisbury, William Benson
Scott, Strother N.
Shafer, Chas. Albert
Sherman, Arthur Frank
Sherman, Edward Willard

Shibley, Arleigh Pierce
Shipsman, Charles
Smith, Wm. Andrew Jackson
Stevenson, Donald Rankin
Stevenson, James Rankin
Stevenson, John Ferguson
Stevenson, Telford William
Stevenson, William Rankin, P. M.
Stuart, Ervin Drayton
Thing, George Washington
Thompson, Schuyler Colfax
Toprahanian, Almenagie G.
Varney, George
Waite, Charles W.
Weinert, James L.

699

Ramsay, Archibald David
Griffin, George Albert
Reid, Eugene Hamer, P. M.
Goodwin, Casper Keller
Ristan, Julius David
Holland, William Irwin
Holman, Frank Christopher, P. M. Ruwich, Alexander
Schray, Edward William
Ingersoll, William Leon
Scott, William Richard
Johns, Josiah
Shaw, Wm. Sherman
Johnson, George Washington
Swanson, August
Ketcham, Minor Ellis
Symons, William John
Kruse, Claude Reid
Tappendoft', Mark Luke
Mann, Wm. Jacob
Wheeler, William Hardin
McKenry, Charles Grant
Whitney, Harry Erwin
Morris, Paul
Wright, George Washington, P. M.
Pierce, Charles Lawrence
-39
Prince, John Rogers

-69

WITHDRAWN:
Bonter, John Sylvanus
Kelly, William
Deaville, George William
'Hazzard, Earl Chester
Patten, Eugene Elmer

WEST LAKE LODGE, No. 392.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
Masonic Temple.

EAST BELT LODGE, No. 391.

OFFICERS: .

Tuolumne, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.

William Theodore Osterholt, Master,Harlan Wylie Clatworthy, Chap.,
1618 Oxford Ave.
Lewis Ernst Forsblom, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Woodford Yerxa, S. Ward., Samuel Silverman, Junior Deacon,
James F. Dixon, Junior Warden,
Charles Lawrence Wild, Marshal,
John Wilson Phelps, Treasurer,
Thomas Jefferson D~uglass, Jr., S.,
James William Webste'r, Secretary, Harry Gordon Manville, Steward,
care J. W. Robinson Co.
Ralph Morton Seely, Tyler.

OFFICERS:

Robert Bartholomeu Burke, Chap.,
Mark L. Tappendorff, Master,
Tuolumne, Cal.
George Archer, Senior Deacon,
William Jacob Mann, Sen. Warden, Harry Erwin Whitney, Jun. Deacon,
William Soper Beeman, J. W arden, Archibald David Ramsey, Marshal,
James Hansen Christiansen, Stew.,
John Rogers Prince, Treasurer,
Casper Keller Goodwin, Secretary, William John Lyman, Steward,
Tuolumne, Cal.
William Sherman Shaw, Tyler.
Archer, George, P. M.
Beeman, William Soper, P. M.
Bergquist, Gustav Anthony
Breens, Walter Henry
BurgeSB, James Morris
Burke, Robert B.

MEMBERS:
Christiansen, James Hansen
Fender, Joshua
Floyd, Richard Stinson
Gall, John Hamilton
Gillice, James Oscar
Green, Paul Franklin

MEMBERS:
Ballard, Russell Henry
Adams, Walter Franklin
Bamford, Thomas Danes
Anderson, Gustave E. F.
Barker, John Edwin
Anderson, Lawrence McClellan
Barschig, Charles Edward, Jr.
Arbogast, Glenn Elven
Bartlett, Sydney Palmer
Avery, Russ
Baum, Jacob
Backus, Earle Knowles
Bates, Robert Gibson
Bailey, John Emil
Beardsley, Edward Robert
Bailey, Richard Kenneth
Bedell, Louis Rush
Bailey, Walter J.
Beers, Charles Joseph, P. M.
Baker, William Parnell

ROSTER

700
Bell, John Henry
Benedict, Henry Stanley
Benjamin, Charles Wilmot
Berdie, Oscar Charly
Biscailuz, Eugene Warren
Black, Chas. Willard
Blakesle.e, Lyman Curtis
Blau, Siegmund
Boothby, Wilbur Hanson
Bordeaux, Ernest James
Bowland, Leon Arthur
Brandenburg, Wm. John Augu3t
Bresee, Paul
Brock, William Ernest
Brockway, H. Nelson
Brown, Andrew McCormack
Brown, Arthur Cortez
Brown, Samuel Barton
Brown, Will Randall
Brunner, Albert Henry
Brunner, John Michael
Brunner, Leon Vincent
Bryan, Fred Wellington
. Buratti, Albert Lorenz
Buratti, Carl Louis
Burgoyne, George Francis
Burgoyne, William
Burt, William Jefferson
Butler, John Lynch
Campbell, Byron
Campbell, Charles Nicholas
Carpenter, Will Milton Vamey
Chandler, Charles Lovell
Chandler, William Herman
Chapman, Franci~ Benjamin
Chapman, Geo. Arthur
Childs, Albert Willis
Choate, James Roy
Choate, Jo~eph Lynn·
Choate, Wm. Lynn
Clatworthy, Harlan Wylie
Clotfelter, Urill Thurston
Clover, Arthur Samuel
Collins, Walter Hartley
Conner, . Henry Tanner

701

ROSTER
Cook, Clarence Weing
Cook, Edward Jessup
Cord, Harry Arthur
Cornwell, John Bates
Cowan, Earl
Crampton, Walter Albert
Crandall, Elbert Earl
Creed, Eugene Elmer
Cronkite, Clarence Edgar
Cross, Brent Josiah
Crow, Benjamin Herbert
Cuddeback, John Emery
Cunningham, Arva Warren
Curtain, Milton Finley, P. l'4
Curtain, Napoleon
Cutts, Winthrop Raymond
Davi4ison, Berthold T.
Day, Walter Chas.
Dearing, Harry Lummis
Defty, Emanuel
Dempster, Don Acker
Dennis, George Charles
Dennis, Willard W allaee
Diehl, George Conrad
Dilberger, Frederick Charles
Dishman, Edwp.rd Francis
Dixon, James F.
Dopkins, Joseph Henry
Dopler, Chas. Franklin
Douglas, Thomas Jefferson, Jr.
Douglas, Thomas Jefferson, Sr.
Dowell, Bert Lewis
Dunbar, Lorin Franklin
Duncan, Dudley Dion
Duncan, George Russell
Durgin, Walter Clement
Dyas, Bernal Hubert
Earle,· Walter Herbert
Eaton, W. Frank
Eddy, Clarence Oscar
Edwards, Le Roy Mallory
Eisen, Perey Augustus
Fabling, W"lter James
Farish, Oscar Eugene
Farmiloe, Cyrenn.is Tyghe

Fayram, Charles Herbert
Feagans, George ·Elmer
Fearnley, Joshua
Fechter, Louis Giesbauer
Ferguson, Clarence
Ferguson, David Walter
Finley, Theo. Gawn
Finney, Howard Ezra
Flatau, Herman
Fleek, Jamee Milton
Fleming, Edward John
Fogel, Louis
Foose, Charles Alexander
Forsblom, Lewis Ernst
Forsyth, George
l!'raekelton, William Burnside
French, Malcolm Harry
Frier, James Harvey
Fuller, Raymond Stiles
Gabel, Thomas Ring
Galbraith, Samuel Valentine
Gallagher, Ril!hard William
Gallup, Luke Lundquist
Gamble, John Davis
Gardner, Cecil James
Gereke, Rudolph William
Gibbs, Amelius Marion
Gibson, James Alex., Jr.
Gibson, Merrill Eeeington
Giffen, Guy James
Gifford, Harry Van Vleck
Gilkey, Bert
Gillette, William Winter
Gilmore, Earl Bell
Goodwin, Charles Oren
Goudge, Herbert James
Gough, Frank Asher
Gough, Roy Walker
Green, Lucius Peyton
Greenland, Sidney Albert P.
Grelek, William Rudolph
Griffin, Joseph Clifford
Groves, Cleveland Hunt
Guinn, Howard James
Gunther, Charles Winslow

Guthrie, Charles Bentley
Hackett, William A.
Hackler, Charles Wesley
Hadley, Charles Ross
Hahne, Simon Carl
Hall, Samuel Cortana
Hambright, Geo. Fred 'k.
Hammel, William Augustus, P. M.
Hammer, Jack
Hancock, Paul Clifford
Hanson, William Gibbs
Harbert, Frank B.
Hardacre, Ralph Beldam
Hardin, Ferguson Smith
Harnsberger, Robert Miller
Harris, Frederick Ernest
Harrie, Walter
Harrison, Henry William
Hartford, John
Hartung, Edgar John
Haydock, Clarence
Heaton, Walter St. Clair
Heavens, Jamee Wm.
Henry, John Jamee
Herald, George Hyatt
Hewson, William Thomas
Hildebrand, Charles George
Hildebrand, Jacob K.
Hillis, Marshal Ezra
Hinshaw, Floyd Milburn
Hodson, Chester Arthur
Holcomb, Walter Edwarcl
Holcombe, Tyler Thomas
Holler, Philip Wilbur
Homann, Ralph E.
Hoover, Clinton Dorsey
Hopkins, Benjamin Franklin
Horton, Geo. Ray
Boswell, Wm. Burgess
Howard, Everard Ray
Howard, William Fruneis
Humphreys, William Morgan, P. M.
Hunsaker, Daniel McFarland
Hunter, George, Jr.
Huppert, Edgar Francis

702
Hurd, Charles Calvin
Hurd, Henry Mix, P. M.
Hurst, Ernest Le Roy
Ibere, Max Charles
Inverarity, Frank
Jacobs, Bertie A.
Jameson, Harry Moore
Jamison, William H.
Jenkins, James Frederick Theo.
Jenkins, John Evans
Jennings, Charles W.
Jergins, A. T.
Johnson, Robert Herigee
Johnstone, William Albert
Jones, Beecher :Morgan
Jones, Byron McCray
Jones, George Henry
J oeephs, Louie
Kase, Thomas Kenton
Keefer, George Lenfest)'
Keifer, George Wilbert
Kehler, Henry Arthur
Keim, George Adams
Kelch, George Henry
Kelly, Francis Asbury, P. M.
Kelly, Walter Poundstone
Kemper, Fran.k Conley
Kemper, William Bowler, Jr.
Kiggens, Jacob Thomas
King, Richard Douglas
King, Whitmer Franklin
Kinney, William Milton
Kirkland, Wm. Wildman
Kister, Hannie Julius
Kitzele, Henry Joseph
Klinefelter, Frank Osborne
Krause, Frank August
Knoll, Dan Wilhelm
La Fetra, W. W.
Lashbrooke, Joseph Richard
Lapp, Clemens Elmer
Lauterbach, Samuel
Lawrence, George Edward
Le Noir, Frank Howard
Lerner, Samuel

ROSTER
Levin, Benjamin Samuel
Lighthipe, James Alfred
Linn, Roy Augustus
Lips, Walter
Lloyd, Richard Bunbry
Lloyd, Robert Henry
Logg, John
Lohman, Walter Prentis
Long, Harry Eugene
Longoria, Alfred
Louis, Irvin Charles
Low, John Judson
Love, John Heyl Vincent
Luke, Edwin C:
Luter, John Wesley
Lynch, Charles Albert
Lyn11, Thomas Mason
Maag, Claude Carl
:MacGinnis, Edwin
:MacGinnis, Geo. H.
MacRae, Herbert Dewey
Mann, Elbridge
:Manville, Harry Gordon
Marine, :Madison
:Marlatt, Louis Brighton
Marshall, Ira Allison
McArthur, Frank Crum
McCann, Bernard Carrigan
McClure, Frank D.
:McCuietion, William Jasper
:McDonald, Alex. B.
:McDowell, Edward Emerson
:McDowell, Elmer Root
:McGahan, Edwin Ortero :M.
Mathews, John Robert
Maxson, Herbert Gardner
:Melsing, Gustave Adolph
:Mendelsohn, David
Mennen, Edwin R.
:Metzler, Irving Schlesinger
Miller, James Wealey
Miner, Wilbur Thomas
Mines, Harry Garnet
:Mines, William Wales
Monk, Edward Brewater

ROSTER
Moore, Henry Phillip
Moore, William
Morris, Clair Dan
:Mortenson, Albert
Mueller, Oscar Henry
Mullen, George Emmett
Muncy, Wm. Livingstone
Murphy, Uel Wesley
Nagel, Henry William
Neilsen, Oswald Sofus Crisjan
Nelson, Hugh Wellington
Noll, William H.
Norell, Oscar Aufelt
Norman, Ernest Edgar
Olcovich, Albert
Olcovich, Emil
Ormsby, Edwin Samuel
Osterholt, William Theo.
Overton, Paul, P. M.
Pallette, Edward :M.
Palmer, Edgar
Parks, Thomas Billington
Parlee, Henry
Petterson, John Peter
Paulsen, Robert Crist
Payne, James Thomas
Pearson, Benj. Franklin
Peck, Clair Leverett
Peck, Russell Alvin
Pehr, :Michael Henry
Pellett, William Johnston
Perrigo. Frank Allen
Pfaffenberger, Walter Gladstone
Pfannkuchen, Adolph George
Phelps, John Wilson
Phillipe, James Samuel
Pierce, Edward Clarence
Polsey, Jacob Everett
Pope, Elwyn Herbert, P. M.
Porter, H. :Montague
Potter, Elmer Claudius
Pratt, Orlando Vincent
Quimby, Edward Hiram
Reed, Burt Guy
Reitz, Harry C.

Rice, Wm. Francis
Riggins, Harley Edmund
Riggins, Jamee Richard
Rittigstein, Joseph
Rueb, Guy :Mansfield
Ryon, William Albert
Ruess, William Rudolph
Russell, Grover Taylor
Schmidt, Arthur A.
Seely, Ralph Morton
Seibert, Edward Phillipa
Selover, Samuel Adeline
Shaw, Bertram
Shelton, James Errett
Shinn, Clement Lawrence
Shostrom, Emil
Siegel, Nathan
Silverman, Bennett
Silverman, Samuel
da Silva, John Cordeiro
Simmons, Sebastian
Skinner, Alden Webster
Skirball, William Norman
Slattery, Harry E.
Sloan, Edmund Glenn
Sloat, Harry William
Smith, Clarence Fairchild
Smith, Frederick Morse
Smitzdorf, Rudolph Fred 'k
Smyser, Henry Oliver
Sniffen, Samuel Tabele
Solomon, John B.
Sparks, Robert Stuart
Stacy, Jay Homer
Stanley, Harry Emil
Starkey, Francis P.
Steely, John Sherman
Stocking, (,1yde Henry
Stone, Clarence Eugene
Sunderland, Egbert
Swalley, Harley Edwin
Sweet, Arthur Northrup
Swift, William
Talbott, John Chester, P. M.
Talbot, James Arnold

703

704

ROSTER

Taylor, Edgar Cleyrein
Taylor, Samuel Eugene
Testera, Frank Stewart
Thomas, John Wm.
Thompson, Clifford Jamee
Transue, Jacob Peter
Trott, Daniel Melvin
Truex, Amasa Randall T.
Underwood, :.\!aru. Franklin
Vaillancoure, Leon
Valentine, Louis Hewlett
Vance, Champ Shepherd
Vance, Ira Lincoln
Vanderbilt, Edward Christopher
Van Norman, William Vernon
Vestal, Eugene Gale
Vincent, Richard William
Wakefield, Orin Hoskins
Walker, Joseph Atwood
Walker, Raymond Curiis
Walper, Alfred Ernest
Ward, Charles Webster
Ward, Fred 'k Lee
Ward, John Edward
Washburn, Frank Leighton
Waters, Arthur Jay
Watson, Ralph Mott
Webb, Frederick

Webster, Frank Brainerd
Webster, Frederick Wiley
Webster, James William
Wehmer, Louis Frederick
Welbourn, Oclasco Carlos
Wesson, Walter Perrine
Whitman, Charles Henry
Wild, Chas. Lawrence
Will, August
Williams, George Henry
Williams, Ernest Lindsay
Williams, Frank Andrew
Willets, Ray Douglas
Wilson, Arthur Roscoe
Wilson, Christopher, Jr.
Wilson, Horace Sandes
Winter, David Logan
W ollaber, Arthur Beriice
Woodard, Roy Douglas
Woods, Henry James
Woods, William Wallace
Woods, Wilson Thompson
Wyckofl', Louie Elkin
Yankle, James Minor
Yates, James Pagden
Yerxa, Charles Woodford
York, John Marvin
Young, George Arthur

ltOSTER

.. '
BALDER LODGE, No. 393.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated :Meetings, first Friday in each Month.
2174; Market Street.
OFFICERS:
Emil Hogberg, Master,
Per Edwin Pearson, Chaplain,
· 249 Edgewood 4,ve.
Nils Steven Stohl, Senior Deacon,
Axel Alfred Lundquis~, S. W arden, Carl H. Mortimer, Junior Deacon,
Frans Otto Sjogren, Jun. Warden, Alfred Berglof, Marshal,
Andrew Hampus Bergstrom, Treas., Frank Magnus Hultman, Ster..vard,
Karl Frederick Strauqberg, Sec.,
Charles Alfred Larson, Steward,
2216 Geary St.
.Frank Oscar Holmquist, Tyler.

-436

WITHDRAWN:
Ball, Oscar G.
Blyth, John Arthur
Coe, Edmund Wallace
Danziger, Jake M.

Drackett, William Dutholemew
' Goulding, Frederick William
Richwine; Henry Oliver
*Smith, Walter W.

Gibbs, Walter Dickson
Reid, James Artlwr

DIED:
Sale, Henry Thomas
Schmidt, Fred 'k Wilhelm Theodore

•Affiliated during the year.

705

Allen, Charles J.
Anderson, Albert William
Anderson, Charles A.
Anderson, Fridolf
Anderson, Gustave
Anderson, Hans Oscar
Anderson, Olof
Anderson, Petter
Axell, Allan
Barney, Rolland Eugene
Berglof, Alfred .
Bergstrom, Andrew H.
Bergstrom, Go.ttfrid
Borg, Charles
Bruck, Fritz
Carlson, John
Carlson, Alfred
Carlson, Carl Anton
Carlson, Elmer
Chytraue, Swan
Dahl, Thomas Peter Theodor
Dahlgren, Arthur Harvey
Davis, Axel
Edmonds, James Walter
Englund, Louis
Brickson, Charles
Erickson, Peter Erick
45

:MEMBERS;
Eriksen, Edvard
Eriksen, Thomas·
Farman, Charles Edward
Ferguson, Robert
Fischer, Torsten Rudolf
Forsberg, Oscar
Forsberg, Samuel
Franklin, Carl P .
Fredrickson, Knut
Georges, Carl Leonard
Gisslow, Klaus Lambert
Gradin, Anders August
Groene, Louis George
Gruggel, Oscar L. Christian
Hamberg, Olof Julius
Hanson, Karl Eric
Heinrich, Emil Bruno
Hogberg, Emil
Holland, Charles Johan
Holm, John August
Holmquist, Frank Oscar
Ht!-lting, Frederick Benjamin
Hultman, Frank Magnus
Jacobson, Carl August
Jacobson, Jacob Lorentz
Jensen, James
Johanson, Johan Hilmer

706

ROSTER

Johnson, August
Johnson, Charles Gustave, P. M.
Johnson, Frans Gustaf, P. M.
Johnson, Joel
Johnson, John Walter
Johnson, Nels
Johnson, Manfred
Johnson, Mikel
Johnson, Oscar
Johnson, Oscar Walfred
Johnson, Johannes Gustaf
Johnson, Richard
Johnson, William Karl
Jones, John Noble
Karlson, Carl
Larson, Andrew Peder
Larson, George Peter
Larson, Harry
Larson, Oscar Fred 'k
Lee, Joseph Edgar
Lindblom, Eric Olof
Lindblom, Olof
· Lindegren, Gustaf
Lindgren, Claus O. P:
Lindstrom, Axel Oscar
Lundahl, Victor
Lundholm, Carl Oscar
Lundquist, Axel Alfred
Lundstrom, Knut A.
Malmqvist, Carl Ygge
Mentzer, Harry
Monson, Charles
Monson, Olof
Moren, George Gottfred
Mortimer, Carl H.
Nelson, Johan Frederick
Nielsen, Hans Jakob
Nordin, August
Norman, Herbert Almer
Nygren, Carl
Nystrom, Charles G.
Ohlson, Alfred
Oliver, Hugo Leopold
Olson, Alexander
Olson, Andrew

Olson, Otto Arthur
Palmer, August
Palmer, Gustave Frederick
Paulson, Nils Peter
Paulson, Peter M.
Pearson, Olof
Person, Ole
Pearson, Per Edwin, P. M.
Person, Sven
Peterson, Carl August
Peterson, Charles
Peterson, George
Peterson, Gustave
Peterson, Irving
Peterson, John Arvid
Peterson, John Peter
Petterson, Magnus
Pihlstrom, Axel Magnus
Price, George Nelson
Ramberg, Charles John
Randall, Charles Henry
Rehn, Carl John
Renstrom, Frank Oscar, P. M.
Renstrom, Gustave Lambert
Rehnstrom, John
Riley, Robert James
Ringholm, Knut Herman
Rudebeck, George Maurice, P. M.
Rutzback, Charles August
Sabel, Frej. Leopold
Sanden, Lars Frederick
Scally, John Edward
Silverek, Gustaf
Sjogren, Frans Otto
Sjogren, August
Sjolander, Carl Theodor
Smith, Joseph M.
Stanquist, John Victor
Stanquist, Oscar Edward
Stempel, Henry John
Stohl, Nels Steven
Stohl Gustaf Walfred
Stra~dberg, Karl Fred 'k
Sutherland, Albi:n
Svedeen, August

ROSTER
Swanson, Aaron
Swanson, Charles John
Swanson, John
Swenson, Jonne Sigfried
Swenson, Oscar Fred 'k
Sword, Carl
Taylor, Henry William B.
Taylor, William McGregor
Tornberg, Carl August
Trubeck, Nils Anders

Tunnicliffe, John
Wahlin, Fritz
Wallen, August Martin
Wallin, Gustav
Wallgren, Wilhelm Edward
Watts, Arthur Roscoe
Westfeldt, Gerhard Ewald
Widerstrom, John
Wigholm, Carl August
Yngvc, Karl

707

-164

WITHDRAWN:
Ahlberg, Carl Fredrick

Lindholm, Albert Lars

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gardelius, Conrad Richard

UNIVERSITY LODGE, No. 394.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
4707¥.i So. Vermont Ave.
OFFICERS:
J ohn Christian Netz, Master,
Columbus Joshua Lipe, Chaplain,
J4Qg W. Jefferson St.
Ralph Lee Garnier, Sen. Deacon,
Frederic Benjamin Comfort, S. W.,
John Alden West, Junior Warden, Alfred Edward White, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Howlett, Marshal,
Frank Arthur Greth, Treasurer,
Edward Albert Brown, Steward,
Ca rl Cronemiller, S ccrctary,
William Joseph Dorr, Steward,
1574 W . 3Sth Street.
Elisha Lyman Andrews, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, George Washington
Bnird, Algeron Lewis
Allen, Charles Wellington
Baldy, Thomas Edgar
Allen, Winfield Scott
Ball, Jesse Wineco:tree
Andrews, Elisha Lyman
Barnum, Arthur Nathaniel
Andrews, Leo Bernard
Bates, Warren Carver
Andrews, Norman Ira
Battey, Walter Raymond
Ausbach, Guy Maurice
Beatty, Seydel Floyd
Austin, Burton Elijah
Blasdell, Louis Cecil

708
Bowers, Chester Herbert
Boyer, Lewis Morley
Bridges, Thomas Mitchell
Brode, Francis Alfrey
Brown, Chas. Woodward
Brown, Edward Albert
Burgess, Stanley, Kenneth
Buss, Anthony William Frank
Campbell, Alner Garrett
Campbell, Verner Allen
Carlsen, Eli Oliver
Carpenter, Allen Ray
Clark, Elmer Joseph
Clarke, Daniel
Clements, Stiles Oliver
Cocke, Hugh .
Collins, James Lawrence
Comfort, Frederic Benjamin
Conoway, Otthello Parker
Crane, Charles Spencer
Criley, Clarence Holmes
Cronemiller, Carl
Cronemiller, Guy
Davidson, Thomas Farley
Dawson, Bonewitz Xerxes
Dawson, Edward
Dicker, David N.
Dolson, Albert Orlan
Duncan, Francis Marion
Donnelly, Patrick Joseph
Dorr, Wm. Joseph
Downing, Charles Edwin
Edwards, Frank Oscar
Ellis, Arthur McDonald, P. M.
• Erskine, Geo. Durward
Ervin, Charles Hickle, P. M.
Flood, William Henry
Florcken, Emil Fred 'k
Fulford, Richard Seamond
Funk, Foss Simpson
Garnier, Ralph Lee
Gonzawa, Jacob
Gower, Henry Croswell
Haswell, Wm. Clarke

ROSTER
Henderson, Joseph Reid
Heron, Frank
Heese, Charles
Hollingsworth, Karl E.
Howlett, H~nry
Hudgens, Archie
Hymer, James Alpheus
Johnston, Seward Wesley
Johnston, William Roy
Jones, Howard Fidelia
Jochimsen, Edgar Phillip
Joos, Jacob Joseph
Keen, Cassius Harland
Kennard, John William
Kinney, Edwin Lawrence
Layne, Joseph Gregg
Linnea, William Henerich
Linsdell, Walter Albany
Lipe, Columbus Joshua
Litterer, Louis Adolph
Lee, Irving Macy
Lewis, Albert Henry
Loridan, Florimond A.
McElwain, Wesley Edward
McKinney, David Forest
McKinney, Samuel Pease
Miller, Emanuel Abraham
Miller, Port Conrad
Miller, Thomae Kilpatrick
Mitchell, Irving Jefferson, P. M.
Netz, John Christian
Netz, Joseph
Pettypeice, Milton Henry Brownlee
Phillips, Walter Dyer
Pierce, Sterling Newton
Prince, John Reid
Rawlings, Charles Espey
Reimers, George Amos
Rock, Edgar Paterick
Servis, Leland Brookins
Shadinger, Roy Orville
Shepherd, Fredric Monroe
Sheppard, Harwood Allan
Shollenberger, Eugene D.

ROSTER
Skeen, Clifford Leslie
Skinner, John Kenneth
Smith, Robert James
Somerville, Jamee William
Stafford, Owen Rogers, P. M.
Strait, Geo. Sexton
l::!weet, Charles Hesson
Thaxter, Earl
Teale, Albert Earnest
Thomson, Archibal~ Percival
Tilden, Byron Timothy
Todd. John Gilford
Townsend, Francis Milo

Van Atta, Ivan Byron
Van Culin, William Townsend
Walker, John Douglas, P. M.
Walsworth, Chester Byron
Watson, George Cookman
W eifenbach, George Conrad
West, John Alden
White, Alfred Edward
Whittington, John William
Willard, Brady Eugene
Williams, George
Wyckoff, Edward Blanchard
Yarrington, James Theirs
-130

WITHDRAWN:
Hazeltine, Paul Richard
Martin, Robert Mead, Jr.
Mosher, Marino Benjamin
Rich, Frank Elmer
Tartar, Christopher Columbus
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Watson, John Franklin
DIED:
Otten, John William

TURLOCK LODGE, No. 395.
Turlock, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Arthur James Eddy, Master,
Alva Dee Jackman, Sen. Deacon,
Turlock, Cal.
Louis Sanford Chittim, J . Deacon,
William Roy Cook, Senior WardP.. Nels Olson Hultberg, Marshal,
Albert William Johnson, J. I-Var., Ralph Perley Giddings, Steward,
Wellington Brown Treasurer
William Milton Bevans, Steward,
Winfred Martin McKibbin, Se~.,
Isaac Adams, Tyler.
P . 0. Box 684, Turlock, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Wm. Willis, P. M.
Abbott, Geo. Wm.
Adams, Isaac
Anderson, Peter Erick

709

Anthony, James Buchanan
Austin, Thomas Clarke
Bennett, Raymond Whiteaway
Bevans, William Melton

..
710

ROSTER

Bronaugh, Clarence Humphrey
Johnson, Clarence
Brown, James
Long, Mace El)iott
Brown, Wellington
Mains, Eldon Perry
Carlson, Carl Cornelius
Mccullagh, Samuel Boyd
McKenzie, Donald, P. M .
Chase, Willis Smith
Child, Benjamin Wainwright, P. M,McKibbin, Winfred Martin
Nuckolls, Holland MeTueire
Clipper, Allen James
Perkins, Morton Elroy
Clough, Ernest Linwood
Persson, Clarence Edwin
Cofl'inberry, Corwin Camden
Peterson, Care Fred 'k
Cook, William Roy
Quigley, .James Ray
Cooper, Jay Oliver
Ramsey, Francis Allen
Cuendet, Charles G.
Ramsey, Wm. Phillip
Downing, Joseph Irving
Rarrick, William Wallace
Eddy, Arthur James
Raymond, Daniel
Edely, Henry Pierre
Fordney, Wm. Henry
Rickenbacher, Walt. Hartman
Gamwell, Louis John
Roberts, James Samuel
Garnsey, Louis James
Roberts, Samuel E.
Geer, Charles Henry
Roselle, George Henry
Geer, Fred Asabel
Samuels, Alexander
Giddings, Ralph Perley
Simon, George
Hansen, Soren Anton
Shadle, Herbert Martin
Haskins, Beverley Powell
Sperry, Louis Nelson
Hodges, George Andrew
Taber, Geo. Henry
Holton, Franklin Alexander
Topp, Thomas Martin
Homer, John Semour
Taylor, Bayard
Hudiburg, Alfred
Villinger, Harry Leon
Hultberg, Nels Olsen
Webber, Samuel Thompson
Jackman, Alva Dee·
Williams, Seth
Johnson, Albert Wm.
WITHDRAWN:
Clarke, Benjamin Franklin

'

ROST EB

'

711

APOLLO LODGE, No. 396.
Alameda, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.

t

-67

OFFICERS:

Percy Clarence Windham, Master, Charles Horace Bradley, Chaplain,
1427 Grand St., Alameda, Cal.
Wilbert Shankland Condon, Sen. D.,
Charles Buxton Greeley, Sen. Ward., George Hyatt Hagy, Marshal, ·
William Edwin Bunker, Jun. Ward., Elmer Pixley Butterfield, Steward,
William Franklin G;een, Tuasurer, James Francis Craig, Steward,
William George Chaplin, Secretary, George Sturtevant, Tyler.
1323 Versailles Ave., Alameda, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Dexter, Browning Dewey
Dietz, Wm. Fred
Dodge, Edward Hall
Edsen, Carl Hinrick
Emmal, Joseph Burt
Field, Russell Bunce
Foard, Carl John
Foote, David Howard
Gaines, Mark Edward, P . M.
Garland, Alexander Murray
Grant, Ulysses Robert
Greeley, Charles Burton
Green, William Franklin, P. M.
Gutte, Isador Julius
Hagy, Geo. Hyatt
Hamilton, James Kiah
Hamilton, William Duff
Hand, Roy Josiah
Harvey, Charles Fairfax
Hieronymus, Arthur
Hinton, William George
Holbrook, King Beach
Hopps, Robert Edwin
,Jacobsen, Henry Peter
.Jennings, Chas. Welburn
Koerber, August Henry William
Keiver, Chas. Woodman
Kermode, Ralph Edward
Lashelle, Frank Edward

Bacon, William Robert
Bailey, Lewis Smith
Bateman, George Earl
Bateman, Isaac Christman
Bentley, Warren Nathan
Benton, Alfred Carroll
Bernsten, Bernt Daniel
Bickford, ·Edward Charles
Blair, Ralph Kirkham
Bradley, Charles Horace
Browne, Ralph Stuart
Browning, Frank Elisha
Browning, Geo. Norman
Bryant, Charles Burton
Bunker, William Edwin
Butterfield, Elmer Pixley
Carman, Clyde Davenport
Chaplin, William George, P . M.
Clark, David .James
Clark, Herbert Deans
Clintsman, Elbert Neill, P. M.
Cochrane, Archer Beebe
Cohn, Gabe Moses
Condon, Wilbert Shankland
Cook, Frank Matthias
Cookson, Frank Spencer
Craig, .James Francis
Darch, John Frederick
Dexter, Albert George

712

"ROSTER

Latham, Alfred
Laughlin, John Owen
Lee, Frederick Adolphus
Lehnhardt, .Harry Aloyisus
Lehrkind, Oscar Frederick
Levi, Percy Malcolm
Limbaugh, Frank Ashley, P. M.
Lorber, Hugo Milton
Lovey, Louis William
Lubben, John Gates
McWilliams, Robert Alex.
Meads, Norman Lansing
Mears, Charles L.
Mills, Joseph Stapleton
Miner, Clark Davis
Morton, Geo. Washington
Parkman, Harry Leland
Perryman, Fred 'k. Wm.
Pierce, David Henry
Porter, Ernest David
Pye, Alfred Wm.
Rasmussen, Harry Robert
Rattray, James Thompson
Ray, Fred William
Ricklefson, Harry Herman
Riehl, Otto
Roby, Frank Augustus
Sanford, John Stanley

Schmidt, Peter Nielsen
. Badgley," J·oseph Irving
Shepard, Sidney Ralph
Smith, Charles He~ry
Smith, Elmer Germain
Smith, Frank Doyle
Smith, Leslie Lee
Spann, Wm. Emery
Spaulding, James Garfield
Stanley, William Henry
Staricco, Damon Nilio
Staude, Frederick
Swain, Leonidas Clinton
Thorning, Edwin Bray
Thaxter, Harry Clinton
Townsend, Walter Boyd
Tracey, Robert Eugene
von Tagen, Chas. Wm.
von Tager, Henry Peter Frederick
W~rd, Edgar Harry
Weinmann, Louis, P. M.
Weinmann, Louis Randolph
Weinmann, William Laidley
Whitney, George Hanna
Williams, George Sprague, P. M.
Williamson, Francis Arthur
Windham, Percy Clarence
-113

WITHDRAWN:
Gage, George Ricebor.o ugh
DIED:
Donaldson, Mason Willoughby

ROSTER

713

RISING LIGHT LODGE, No. 397.
Huntington Park, Los Angeles County.
Stateu Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Henry Bevan, Master,
James Francis Kittle, Chaplain,
Huntington Park, Cal.
Allien Maynard Whitsett, Se11. Dcac.,
James Chester Barr, Se11ior Warden, John Richards, Junior Deacon,
Lester Lemuel Easterly, Ju11. W ard., Ferdinand Henry Vignes, Marshal,
Frank William Screder, Treasurer, Carson Bernard Hubbard, Steward,"
William Henry Bartz, Secretary,
Mortimer Pearson, Steward,
Huntington Park, Cal.
Oliver Hudson Clark, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Kittle, Walter Francis, P. M.
Leukfeld, Henry Frederick
Lindsey, William
Lowman, Charles Oscar
Marshall, John George
Martin, Edward D.
Moss, William Carter
Okell, Harold
Partridge, Benjamin
Patterson, Theophilus Clarence
Patton, Clarence Albert
Pearson, Mortimer
Pinkham, John Henry
Preston, Walter Arthur
Pryor, David E .
Richards, John
Rogers, Charles
Rooke, Arthur Alfonso
Schroeer, Edward Oscar
Shaw, William Henry
Shea, John G.
Shrader, Frank Wm.
Sproul, Horace Milton
Steves, Marion Albert
Stewart, Robert Anderson
Stocks, John H.
Sweet, Walter Stanley
Thompson, Frank Theo., P. M •
Thomas, Richard Henry

Abbott, Samuel Wilson
Allen, Edgar Rueben
Baddley, Frank
Barber, Emmett
Barr, James Chester
Bartz, William Henry
Beeson, Frank Hoyt
Bevans, Charles Henry
Bowen, Edward Rose
Carpenter, Jacob Benj.
Clark, Oliver Hudson
Clark, Stewart W.
Clark, Walter Henry
Colman, Fred
Condley, Darrel
Cowdin, Arthur Wm.
Dunn, David
Easterly, Lester Lemuel
Ford, Wm. E.
Gookins, Ernest James
Harrah, James
Hartley, Clifford C., P. M.
Heacock, James Hugh
Higgins, John Crawford
Hodgson, Edward Clark
Hubbard, Carson Bernard
Hubbard, Clinton DeWitt, P. M.
•Johnson, Thomas
Kittle, James Francis

ROSTER

714

Vignes, Ferdinand Henry
Walters, Alfred Eugene
West, Carleton Egbert, P. M.

ROSTER

'jlfi

Wheat, George Gay
Whitsett, Allien Maynard.

-6"'

FRATERNITY LODGE, No. 399.
San Jose, Santa Clara. County.

WITHDRAWN:
Laemmel, Edward G.

Hailey, Joseph Alexander

FOWLER LODGE, No. 398.
Fowler, Fresno County.
Statecl Meetings Tuesday of or next preeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Bott, William Simmons
Brown, Wilbur L.
Daugherty, Hiram
Dilley, Joseph Rodney
Gower, Sewall
Harlan, William Lafayette
Harriman, Leslie J.
Hays, James
Hull, William Johnson
Hunter, Irving Parker
James, John Norman

Kaprielian, Gabriel Minas
Leon, George Allen
Lusk, Walter Freneh
Mason, Allen Ebert
Matthews, James L.
Patton, Chester Andrew, P. M.
Pugh, John W., P. M.
Riehetts, Walter Seott
Rigby, Charles Cubbison
Smith, Alfred John, P. M.
-22
Weseman, George, P. M.
WITHDRAWN:

All~n, Glenn Loring

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT 01<' DUES:
.Palmer, Roy Harold

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in eaeh month.
OFFICERS:

Floyd Alfred Stull, Master,
426 N. First Street.
Arthur Burr Langford, S. Warden,
Louis Theron Smith, !1111 . Warden,
Paul Furst, Treasurer,
Hugo Washington Otter, Secretary,
137 N. Sixth Street.

John Wesley Cook, Chaplain,
Louis Jacob Pfau, Senior Deacon,
John William Nixon, Junior Deacon,
Paul Rudolph, Marshal,
Chester Roy Gaston, Stl!'ward,
William John Close, Jr., Steward,
Marvin H. Conklin, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Stephen Thomas
Davis, Roy Veateh
Allogi, Arehille Ulrieo
Davis, William King
Baker, LeRoy Franklyn
Davbon, Charles William
Bateman, David Taylor, P. M.
Di Fiore, Dominieo
Bean, Karl Albert
Di Fiore, Salvatore
Benepe, John Levin
Dinsmore, Dudley Fitz John
Bennett, John Donovan
Doee·r , Louis
Bennett, Joseph Hubert
Du Brutz, Arthur Gabriel
Bereovieh, Harry
Durgin, Henry James
Blauer, William Edward
Eastey, Frank Henry
Bothwell, Earl Lewis
Estes, Frederiek Raymond
Brohaska, Fred 'k Chas.
Fiteh, Harry Howard
Brohaska, Theodore
Furst, Paul
Brooks, Joseph Terrill
Gaston, Chester Roy
Brown, Frederiek Benjamin
Gilmour, Harry Wilkes
Browning, Pleasant Harvey
Green, William Wesley
Burkett, GeoxgA Parks
Gribner, Frank Phillipp
Butler, Robert John
Gussefeld, William
Carter, Walter Edmund
Haley, John Virgil
Chaee, John Rufus
Hamilton, Charles Washington
Chase, Stephen Harold
Hammersburg, James Collin
Colen, John Thomas
Haneoek, Joseph Edward
Cook, John Wesley
Hanks, Samuel Jessie
Cox, Herbert Every
Hare, Chas. Benjamin
Craig, Hugh William
Harkness, Guy Herbert
Criehton, Stanley Edgar
Hayes, Everis Anson
Curry, Guthrie Wilson
Hayes, Jay Orley
Curry, William Frank
Holland, Everett Austin
Dailey, Morris Elmer
Hopkins, Mark Forrest

716

Hornstein, Simon
Husted, Frederick Rollings
Jamison, Frank Elmer
Johnson, Samuel Edgar
Karsten, Henry C.
Kennedy, Joseph George
Koch, Valentine
Langford, Arthur Burr
Lester, Frederick Everett
Lester, William Waiter
Lewis, Carl Kyle
Liddle, Chas. Fred 'k
Lillick, Walter Frederick
Lyon, William Penn
Malloy, Joseph Drumm
Marshall, Guy Ellworth
McClay, James William
McDonald, George Kirtland
McMillan, John Gilmore
Mitchell, Thaddeus Pierce
Moellering, Edward Adam
Monroe, Francis Merriam
Moreland, Samuel Edgar
Nash, Charles Henry
Ne.sh, Dorr Edward
Nixon, John Wesley
Osborn, Antrim Edgar
Osterdock, Peter
Otter, Hugo Washington
Pfau, Louis Jacob
Pieper, Wesley Lincoln
Plummer, William Norris
Porter, William Franklin
Prussia, Willard Leland
Reid, John Terrance
Robb, Richard Henry

·.KUSTER

ROSTER

Ross, Frank Harris, P. M.
Rucker, Geo. Armon
Rudolph, Allen
Rudolph, Paul, P. M.
Schluter, Claus Johannes
Sheriffs, Alexander
Simonsen, Louis Martin
Smetzer, Albert Henry
Smith, Louis Theron
Snyder, Charles Lafayette, P. M.
Southeimer, Walter Matthew
Spencer, Charles Meriam
Stubbs, John Leslie
Stull, Floyd Alfred
Stull, Karl Madsen
Swank, Wm. Jefferson
Sykes, George Frederick
Terllier, Adolf Ferdinand Louis
Thompson, Leslie Crowner
'\'hrift, Roy
Thrift, Alva Absalom
Tompkins, Samuel George, P. M.
Theden, Joseph
Tower, Arthur Richmond
Trembly, Stephen Bane
Waldorf, George Washington
Watkins, Harry Binninger
Welch, George Wilbur
Wideman, Conrad Joseph
Wight, David, Jr.
Wilcox, Edward Augustus
Wilkins, Andrew Gordon
Williams, George Edmond
Wilson, Lewis Benjamin
Yount, Edwin Walter
-12~

WITHDRAWN:
Biddle, Julian Heister
Caldwell, Arthui: Andrew
Marrack, Reginald Christian B.

717

BURLINGAME LODGE, No. 400.
Burlingame, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in ea ch month.
OFFICERS:

Fred Talbot Colby, Master,
Edwin Bell Lytle, Chaplain,
Burlingame, Cal.
Luther Eli Penniman, S e11. Deacon,
William Frederick Stapff, Jr., S. W.,Arthur Joseph Belton, J. Deacon,
Lewis Arthur Cavalier, Jun. War., Andrew Stirling Lamond, Marshal,
William Eldred, Treasurer,
Roynane Huntsman Van Schaick, S.,
William Wilkin, Stnpard,
William John Kidd, Secretary,
Box 61, Burlingame, Cal.
Allan Raymond Hanscom, Tyler.

Alger, Oliver Effingham
Anderson, Arthur Alexander
Anderson, George Noble
Andrews, George Thomas
Anton, Edwin Richard
Batchelder, Edgar Barnard
Bazata, Benjamin Vaclav
Beebe, George Alson, P. M.
Belton, Arthur Joseph
Belton, Fred Blaine
Bennett, Edward Olin
Berg, Augt.ist
Best, Louis Homer
Bettelheim, Hugo Joseph
Biilings, Homer A.
Bovee, Clarence Frank
Bradbury, Thomas
Brewer, William A.
Carlson, Carl Alfred
Cavalier, Lewis Arthur
Chevalier, Edward Victor
Chrisman, John Morris
Christman, Henry S. J.
Cleese, John Peter
Colby, Fred Talbot
Crossett, Frank
Daudistel, Arthur Steven
Danielson, Hans Tobias
DeGear, Warren Jackson

MEMBERS:
Dessin, Wilkie Janssen
Diggles, Robert Newton
Dow, Alfred William
Dunlevy, Wm. Sherman
Easton, Ansel Mills
Edwards, John Arthur
Elder, James Edward
Eldred, William Henry
Epting, Edward
Farrell, George
Foster; Charles Tilden
Frost, Horatio Terrell
Geary, Edward Hamilton
Gilberts, Edward Henry
Giles, William Sherman
Gore, Will Earl
GoBB, P. Bantacon
Gray, Thomas Henry
Grimes, Joseph
Gugliebmoni, Cyril Alex.
Hansen, August Raymond
Hanscom, Allan Raymond
Held, Ernest
Heuer, Frank
Jellinek, Charles, P. M.
Jones, Arthur Caradoc
Jones, Edward
Jones, Humphrey Llewellyn
Kidd, William John, P. M.

718

ROSTER

Klose, Berthold Ewald
Krug, Albert
Lalanne, Lawrence Marvin
Lange, Eric
Lawrence, James
Lawrence, Lorenzo Berton
Lamond, Andrew Stirling
Lindgren, Chas. John
Little, Walter John
Logan, Ross Clay
Lorton, Frederick Douglas, P. M.
Lyon, George Frederick
Lytle, Edwin Bell
Maier, Henry
Marshall, Frank
McClinton, Myron Giles
McKenna, Fergus
lf:eek, Thomas Herbert
Momberg, Gustave Adolph
Moores, Eldridg~, Morton
Murch, Louis Augustine, P. llrf.
Murray, Edward Francis
Nelson, James Arthur
Noyes, Charles Sedgwick
Offield, Archibald Leonard
Oliphant, Edward
Penniman, Luther Eli
Regan, Harry William

ROSTER

Rebe, John
Robb, Jesse Calvin
Rowald, William Frederick
Sammon, Paul Ester
Schultz, John Joseph
Sawin, Wm. Grant
Scott, John Thomas
Scott, Walter Lagrange, P. M.
Selander, Fred
Skellenger, Frank Herbert
Smalridge, Chas. Evens
Stapff, William Frederick, Jr.
Stead, Alonson Weller
Strang, John
Sweeney, Everett William
Tiddy, Archie Dewar
Trist, Frederick James
Van Scbaick, Raynane H.
Watts, Frank William
Weagant, Geo. E.
White, John Miller
Wilkin, William
Wilkinson, Frank Snell
Williams, Clarence
Wisker, Frank Gavin
Wold, Erie
Woolley, William Henry

WITHDRAWN:
Gray, Thomas
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hammond, Edward Conrad

7l9

BAY VIEW LODGE, No. 401.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Albert Francis Lovsie, Mc:stcr,
619 63rd St., Oakland.
Fred William Wetmore, Sen. War.,
Harry Edward Jarman, J. Warden,
Harry Edward Brittingham, Treas.,
Leroy W. Potter, Secretary,
948 Apgar St., Oakland.

Frank Harland Jewell, Chaplain,
Percival David L. Rankin, S. D.,
Harry Elmer Long, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Kimble, Marshal,
Robert Bengo Girdwood, Steward,
William Edward Clarke, Steward,
Renick Win Hull, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

-113

Alexander, Thomas
Andersen, Ludwig C. N. P.
Appleton, Charles Bradford
Badt, Joseph Abraham
Baird, Percival
Baker, Gwyn Harvey, P. llrf.
Baker, James Bedford
Baker, Ned Duncan
Bird, Robert John
Blake, William Henry
Bower, Abram
Boyer, Jam es Hoffman
Brandt, Fred 'k Henry
Bray, Eustace Vivian
Briggs, Frederick
Brittingham, Harry Edward
Brisley, George Daniel
Broaddus, Wm. Walter
Brobeck, Hartford Thurman
Brown, Jesse Ray
Burrow, George William
Buswell, James Morgan
Cain, Leslie Merrill
Callaghan, Harvey Mead
Callahan, Richard Edward
Catford, Dudley Alleyn
Champlin, Ira Orlando
Chauvaldjy, Nicholas
Churton, Robert Allan

Clark, Byron Walton
Clarke, George Russell
Clarke, Wm. Edward
Clifford, Frederick James
Collins, William David
Colman, Ellis
Curtis, Elmer Eaton
Curtis, Thomas Bennett
Da Costa, Fernando Augusto
De Braal, William
Decker, Nias Myron
De Voe, Robert McCord
Dow, Hezekiah
Downing, Frank Milton
Edwards, Henry Frederick
Eggers, George Frederick
Elliott, George
Ellison, Robert Ferguson
Faulkner, Howard Joshua
Fisk, Arthur William
Fredrickson, Oscar Frederick
Fritz, Frederick Howard
Gadsden, Charles, Jr.
Gardiner, William
George, Edwin Lewis
Girdwood, Robert Bengo
Ooldspring, Harry James
Goold, Geo. Rollin
Gould, Harry

720

ROSTER

ROSTER

Grabill, Frank Benjamin
Granholt, Charles
Griesemer, Abraham R.
Hansen, Peter Lundtang
Haroldson, Andrew
Harrell, William Owen
Harrington, Harris Francis
Hathaway, George Wirt
Henery, William Donaldson
Hindrelet, Frank
Hodgdon, Clarence Walter
Hollstein, George
Hull, Renick Winn
Hunt, George Walter
Janson, Carl
Jarman, Harry Edwin
Jewell, Frank Harland
Kimble, Charles, P. M.
Knowles, Samuel Henry
Lang, Augustus Chas.
Lemons, John Crockett
Leonhardt, John Richard
Levy, Louis U.
Lilienthal, Julius
Livingston, Abraham
Lloyd, Charles Edward
Long, Harry Elmer
Lovsie, Albert Francis
Ludlow, Charles Edward
Lyon, Charles Edward
Mackenzie, James ~ichard Donald
Maganini, Joseph Francis
Mallatratt, Geo. Henry
Marble, Carroll Mason
Marshall, Harry Woodward
Marshall, William
Matheson, Joseph James
Maurace, Louis Green
McCloskey, Edward La V.
McGuire, Huburtus
Miller, Edward Wesley
Minist.'lr, Joseph Barber
Morrill, George Albert
Mott, Perey Robert

Muir, James Black
Murray, Andrew
Myers, Blake David
Nall, George Cookman
Nelson, John Frank
Parrot, William
Parsons, Fred 'k Dwight
Paulson, Frank Ryland
Po.ulson, Paul Antone
Piltz, Adolf Christian
Piltz, Stanley Adolf
Potter, James Pearson
Potter, Leroy W., P. M.
Raahange, Jacob Feldtman
Ramsay, Paul Judkin
Rankin, Percival Lockhart D.
Rawson, John Sidney G.
Reud, Wm. Robert
Rittler, John Baptist
Rix, George Vallentin
Robinson, Edward Oscar
Rodman, George Edward
Schoenfeld, Emanuel Joseph
Segal, Sollie Charles
Shaw, James Samuel
Seybold, Harry Bond
Short, George Henry
Silveria, Joaquin Antonio
Smith, Erastus Floyd
Smith, Mortimer
Somersett, John Christop~er
Spies, Philip Carl
Spott, Louis Harry
Spott, Paul August
Steiger, William Joseph
Stevens, Earl Douglas
Stibbins, Frank Hamilton
Suiter, Henry Arthur
Terrill, John Byron
Thomas, Ellis Irvine
Tilley, Thomas Robert, P. M.
Trnelsen, Bertel Knudsen
Tupper, Thad Morey
Van Wye, Leslie

Van Wye, Scott
Wo.lker, Thomas Gordon
Wallace, Hugh Christie
Wehman, Henry Frank Herman

721

Wetmore, Fred Wm.
Whitehurst, Wm. Lee
Whitten, Carroll H., P. M.
Wilson, Sidney Homer, P. M. -154

WITHDRAWN:
Shattuck, John Webster
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Monk, John William James
Sturgeon, William Alberta
Y arovenko, Paul P.

BRAWLEY LODGE, No. 402.
Brawley, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Evert Nice, Master,
Philo Jones, Senior Deaco 11,
~r.awley, Cal.
.
Chester Jacon Henry Breon, J. Deac.,
W~ll~am T. Dunn, Senior Warden, Edward B. Stilgeboner, Marshal,
Wilham Trafton Randall, J. Ward., Ira Eugene Harmon Steward
John Nelsorr Nevills, Treasurer,
Myron David Witte; Steward
Thomas Harvey Wilkinson, Sec'y, Char;les Eckert, Tyle~.
'
Brawley, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Akin, Jerome
Gibson, Ulysses Grant
Baker, James Perry
Godwin, James Albert
Baum, Harry
Gonder, Roy Eugene
Bennett, John David
Harmon, Ira Eugene
Burger, Samuel Etherton
Harmon, Isaac Eustace
Hendrickson, Max
Breon, Chester Jacob H .
Irwin, Ben Dyer
Cox, Joseph Wilson
Johnson, Adolph Leonard
DeBois, Edward Arthur
Jones, Philo
Dunn, William Tricky
Eaton, William Clarence
Keener, William AleL
Klasgye, John William
Eckert, Adolph Folker, P. M.
Lefner, Dock Randall
Eckert, Carl Frederick
Lindsey, Laurence Lease!
Fuller, Evlyn Millard
Long, Frank Wilson
Fulton, Herbert Lionel, P. M.
·Manahan, Wm. Laurence
Garber, Arthur Elmer
46

ROSTER

ROSTER

722

Mann Wm. Walker
' Ed:win Leslie
.
Mitchell,
Moore, Alvin Ray
Morgan, Soloman Rether
Morrison, David Lacy
Nevills, John Nelson
Nice, Charles Evert
Osborne, Clarence Roy
Park, Clarence John, l'. M.
Pound, Earl Clifford
Randall, William Trafton
Rishell, George Howard

Shaw, John W.
Shaw, Linden Franklin
Squier, Lewis Lapham
Stafford, Percy Munroe
Stahl, Herbert Oscar
Stilgebouer, Edward B., l'. M.
Wade, George Royal
Willcome, George Theodore
Wilkinson, Thomas Harvey
Withrow, Frank
Witter, Myron David

-53

WITHDRAWN:
Anderson, Paul Pierre

YERBA BUENA LODGE, No. 403.
Oakland, Alameda County.
in each month.
Stated Meetings, first Thursd ay
OFFICERS:
Master, John Martin Hencken, S . D.,
Earle Vincent Steven~nkl d
Russell Louis Countryman, J. D .,
215 Orange Stre:t, a an . arden Charles Ezra Powell, Marshal,
Augustin .Andre Gifford, S. W
, Earl Hampton Daggett, Steward,
Robert Gibson Arlett, J Warden,
Albert Barclay Cassad, Steward,
Frederick W . Yokum, reSasurer,
Charles Edward Ostrander, Tyler.
Horace Everett Johnston, ecretary,
.
312 Bank of Savings Bldg.

T

:MEMBERS:
Carter, Horace Valentine
Ainsworth, Russell Turner
Chrissman, Franks Peter
Arlett, Robert Gibso.n
Christensen, Charles
Anderson, Carl Edwin
Clow, (foorge B. Newell
B ailey, Bert H.
Cole, Phillip Sheriden
Bauer, Adolph Gustave
Collister, Lloyd French·
Belden, Leo Vallejo
Comstock, Harry Oswald
Bilger, Frank William
Conradi, Philip Louis, Jr.
Blote, Frank William
Cook, Edward Pell
Bowers, Jacob Lawson
Cornish, Fred Earl
Breman, John Abram
cosad Albert Barclay
Bridgman, Edward Chas., Jr.
Count~man, Russell Louis
Campbell, Charles Hardie

Crabtree, Converse Warren
Leet, Lewis Cass
Cropsey, E: Dexter
Lemen, Oscar Scott
Cropsey, Giles Barrett
Lent, Wm. John
Daggett, Earl Hampton
MacPherson, Harry Farnsworth.
Dingley, Charles Llewellen
Mandler, Walter Paul
Dowdle, Everett Stanley
Marriotte, Paul Alonzo, l'. M.
Drake, Fred Hugh
Marston·, Fred Coburn
Dunn, Robert
Martin, Richard Lee
Edwards, Corman Orval
McClymonds, Vance
Endriss, Robert Charles .
McConaughey, Harry Edward
Enke, Albert Adolphus
McDonald, Nathaniel Edward
Evans, Elmer Ellsworth
McFarlane, Archibald
Everson, Charles
McPherson, Arthur Randall
Fara.day, George Arthur
Merrill,. Arthur William
Featherly, Rice Alvin
Merrill, Ira
Fisher, Gustav August
Meyer, Albert Christian
Foote, Henry Gale
Moyer, Frank Dunning
Foulkes, Edward Thomas
Oliver, Clarence Henry
Fricke, Hubert Theodore
Olson, Alfred
Gibson, Wm. Bias
Olson, Lawrence Elias
Gifford, Augustin Andre
Ostrander, Charles Edward
Gimmell, Charles Louis
Ostrander, Jasper Ellery
Golden, George Charles
Overly, Charles Hendrix
Goodman, Arthur Ralph
Perdue, Frank Ramsey
Gould, Guy Torrence
Parker, Robert Clarence
Gray, Albert Warren
Patterson, Hubert Clyde
Gray, Harry Edwin
Pearson, Joseph Cassius
Penfield, Charles Augustus
Green, Harry Ellsworth
Hammell, Alfred Lawson
Peterson, Ray Edmond
Hencken, John Martin
Place, Niles Wesley
Hencken, Martin Chas.
Powell, Charles Ezra, l'. M.
Henderson, Johnston Alfred
Pruett, Wm. Clifford
Henderson, Joseph James
Ransome, Joseph Spang
Hersey, Merrick Cheney
Rickey, Wm. Bope
Hillyer, Frederick Eugene
Rieser, Charles Albert
Holland, Cecil Claude
Robinson, Chas. Fred 'k
Hoover, Frederick Wheaton
Robinson, Frank
Johnston, Horace Everett
Ronald, Thomas Doane
Jarvis, Charles Fitz Howard
Rule, John M.
Kaas, Charles Albert
Shannon, Lewis Cummings
Kelley, George Arthur
Smith, James Ernest
Kent, Robert Willis
Smith, Werdie Poe
King, Fred 'k Augustus
Stalder, Edward Cutten
Le Ballister, Frederick William, P.M.Stalder, Joseph Melpert
Leedy, Charles Stewart
Stalder, Walter

724

ROSTER

Starbuck, Henry Fletcher, P. M.
Steinbach, Henry Charles
Stevenson, Earle Vincent
Steyenson, Richard Howard
Thompson, William Milton
Vane, James Playford
Van Hovenberg, James Jacob
Vinson, Robert Brownfield
Vis, Adrian
Von Schuckman, Norman
W agenot, Harry Louis
Wainwright, Wm. Donahue
Wellmann, Austin Norris

Wallman, Johann Gordan
Wanzer, James Olin
Watson, Ernest Howard
White, Guy Chalmers
Whitehead, James Edwin
Westdahl, James Robert
Wilde, William Thorwald E. Alex.
Williams, Fred Smith
Williams, Robert Vincent
Yokum, Fred'k' Wm.
Zeigler, Emil Paul
Ziegler, Arthur Herman
-139

WITHDRAWN:
Madeley, George Woodland

ROSTER
Mathias, Jasper Chester, P. M.
Matney, Charles Detroit
McNair, James Birtley
Mullholland, Irving Harvey, P . M.
Nuesbickle, Fred 'k. Benry
Odell, Frank Eugene
Odell, Glenn Eugene
Ragan, Charles
Reed, Steward
Rogers, .Andrew Berry
Roll, Fland
Smiley, John
Smith, Frank Richard

Suydam, Keith McDonald
Taylor, B. Frank
Ulrey, Ezra
·wallace, Thomas Elbert
Warren, Charles Maveo
Warren, Herbert Clifton
Warren, Leslie Alex.; P. M.
West, Wyatt Orion
West, Oliver Roy
White, William Horace
Wood, Willard Selwyn
Worrel, Clana Vernon
Worrel, Edward Wesley

725

-48

WITHDRAWN:
Bandholt, Juan F.

Howard, Wallace Lawton
DIED:
Quick, John

Kingsley, Hugh Edward

GLENDORA LODGE, No. 404.
Glendora, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Elbert Wallace, Muster,
Leslie Alexander Warren, Chap/ain,
Glendora, Cal.
Oliver Roy Long, Senior Deacon,
Hugh Taylor Gordon, Senior Ward., ..................................·-·-· Junior Deacon,
Herbert Clifton Warren, Junior W., Stewart Reed, Marshal,
Frank Eugene Adell, Treasurer,
Frederick Henry Nuesbickle, Stew'd,
Aubrey Watha McCraw, Secretary, Ernest Stockdale Langford, Steward,
Glendora, Cal.
Robert Dewar Kneeshaw, Tyler.
Ashby, Nathan James, P. M.
Bain, William Guy
Bell, Otis Freeman
Bidwell, Rolfe Bishop, P. M.
Blackenship, Roland Foreman
Cook, William Henry ·
Deshields, John Walter
Eckles, Alden
Fry, Dock Willard
Gordon, Charles Franklin
Gordon, George Basil, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Gordon, Hugh Taylor
Gordon, Hugh Taylor, Sr.
Gschwind, Otto Fred 'k
Jones, John Atlas
Jones, John Atlas, Jr.
Kamphefner, Geo. David
Kneeshaw, Robert Dewar
J..onit, Oliver Roy
Loose, Harold Homer
MacCraw, Aubrey W.
Manderville, ~ra .Judson

MONE~A

LODGE, No. 405.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Franklin Haizlip, Master,
Otto Alexander Stoltz, Chaplain,
320 W .• 49th Street.
Wallace Archie Ward, Sen. Deacon,
Claude Horner Campbell, S. W.,
Mark Watson White, Junior Deacon,
!oloyd Burke Emmons, J. Warden, Harry Erdman Carmichael, Mar.,
Elijah Alexander Emmons, Treas., Raymond Austin Zimmer, S .,
Guy L. Davis, Secretary,
William Thomas Toolan, S.,
924 W. 54th St.
Shannon Taylor Burke, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Asbury, James Thomae
Asmus, Edwin
Atkin, Harry
Bekerman, Barnett
Barker, Edred Thomas D.
Barker, Malvern Clark
Beebe, Curtis Meserve

Biggs, Andrew Sansom G.
Bitner, Andrew Clark
Bluedel, Ludwig Joseph
Booher, Howard Alex.
Bradley, Thomas Henry
Broudy, Samuel
Brooks, Ira Eugene

726

Brown, Walter Clayton
Buckhardt, Frank
Buckman, Roy F.
Burke, James King
Burke, Le Roy Lester
Burke, Shannon Taylor
Cain, William Howard
Campbell, Claude Hornor
Carlson, Chas. August
Carmichael, Harry Eadman
Carpenter, Jeremiah Murry
Casler, John Henry
Cates, James Thomas
Cavner, Clarence Mathew
Cavner, Mathew H.
Clair, Willis Morton
Clark, Charles Augustus
Collins, Calvin Douglas
Collins, Hazen Emery, P. M.
Coulter, George William
Craig, J. C.
Cuculitza, George
Cunningham, Geo. Leslie
Curl, William Thomas Wallace
Dane, Wm. Addison
Daniels, Albert Jacob
Davies, Hugh Edward
Davis, Guy Llewellyn
Davis, Howard Woster
Davis, James Edgar
de Penne, Jean Emanuel
Devereaux, George Frank
Dickey, Talmage Yohn
Donaldson, John Robert
Dresser, Walter Prescott
Duncan, Ralph Albert
Dunlap, Robert Lincoln
Emmons, Elijah Alexander
Emmons, Floyd Burke
Evans, Geo. Wm.
Fairchild, Fred Denfee
Fay, John Elliott
Field, George Franklin
Fielden, James Edmund
.l!'inch, Wm. Clinton

ROSTER
Pit:I! Walter, John Edley
Ford, Frederick Halm
Ford, Leslie Blaine
Forsythe, Edward Richard
Fowle, Willard
Francy, John
Frank, John Christopher
Frank, John Joseph
Frank, Morris Adolf
Fuller, Alfred Perry
Glick, Charles
Goetz, Michael
Goggin, John
Gotsch, Oscar
Graf, William George
Greenberg, Harry
Gregory, Robert Jathan
Gross, Henry
Haas, Oscar
Haizlip, John Franklin
Hamilton, Frank Irving
Hamilton, Wilbur Cline
Harris. Wilbert Frank
Hatch, Wheelock Martin
Head, Thomas Fraser
Heintzelman, Roy E.
Herzberg, Nat
Hines, Frank Benjamin
Hokom, John
Holmes, Chas. Herman
Holzmann, Marcus
Huber, Fred 'k Charles
Hughes, George Isaiah
Hurley, George Marcus
Esenstein, Charles
Jelinek, August Ferdinand
Johnson, Thomas
Johnson, Wm. Edgman
Johnston, Lawrence Thomas
Kaufman, Hyman
Kemkel, William
Kenneston, William Thomas
Kleibrink, Willie Augustn'J
Kunzler, Norman Orlando
Lampert, Jacob Matthew

ROSTER
Leppo, Clyde Leroy
Lewis, Charles Eugene
Lewis, Harry Bartlett
Lipman, Oscar
Lobenstein, Walter Henry
Lomax, Robert Elsworth
Marleau, Charles Moses
Mason, Harry Shattuck
Mason, Richard Lowell
May, Claud Earl
McClellan, Robert Wallie
McKeon, Michel Thomas
McQuitty, David Cain
Merchant, David Nelson
Mertes, Anton
Miles, Harry Able
Mitchell, Chester Arthur
Moore, Eugene Beauregard
Moyer, Otto Ruete
Mulford, William Lester
Myers, George William W.
Nelson, Carl K.
Norwood, William Hyatt
Oakley, Louis Leverich
0 'Connell, William Henry
Ogroskc, Charles William
Omara, Phil Sheridan
Osenburg, Fredric Lee, P. M.
Ostrup, Ernest Whitfield
Parrish, George Cornelius
Peffley, William Francis
Peissig, Rudolph
Perkins, Guy Carlton
Pfeiffer, William Robert
Piquette, Louis Seebode
Poor, Oren Leland
Porter, Ernest Dayton
Potter, Bernard Adelbert
Ponedel1 Charles David
Preluzsky, Joseph
Pruitt, Drew
Purcell, Horace
Purdy, Frederick Theodore, P. M.
Rajkovich, Vaso
Randall, Thomas Jefferson

Rappaport, Morris
Raynor, Clarence Rathborn
Redpath, Sidney Herbert
Reisner, Winfred Scott
Richter, Marmaduke Arthur
:Riggs, Clarence Gains
Rikkelman, Garritt
Ring, Merritt Mellen
Rohwedder, Walter Nichols
Roth, Herman Max
Ruddy, Thomas Jefferson
Rudnick, Bennie
Runston, Walfred Enock
Russell, James Alton
Samuels, Charles George
Secor, Frank Michel
. Sennett, Fred 'k Alanson
Sharlip, Benjamin Murdoch
Sheahan, George Eugene
Short, William G.
Simpson, Leon
Slaughter, Edgar Monroe
Smit~, Chester Francis
Spinner, Andrew Cleveland
Spitzer, Maurice
Steele, Guy
Steinhardt, Isidor
Stephens, Herbert Llewellyn
Stern, Charles
Ste·vens, Cicero
Stewart, Heber Adolph
Stifflin, John Werley, P. M.
Stockwell, James Edward
Stoltz, Henry Carl
Stoltz, Otto Alexander
Stone, Max
Suhr, Louis Wm.
Taylor, Geo.
Taylor, Harvey Jacob
Theuerkaufl', Albert
Thomas, Wm. James
Tillis, Hamilton Marion
Toolan, Wm. Thomas
Valley, John Hugo
Van Norman, Faires Marshall

727

728

ROSTER

von Stein, Heinrich Curt
Waddington, Alfred
Waggoner, George William
Ward, Leslie Craig
Ward, Wallace Archie
Watson, Fred'k Wm.
Webb, Wm. James
Weber, Chas.
Wells, Burleigh Ernest
Wells, James Bridgeman
Wells, Nicholas Simpson
West, Edwin William
Wethern, Eugene Corydon
Weymouth, Albert Edward

White, Ambrose M.
White, Mark Watson
Wilcox, Charles Edwin
Willert, Joseph Max
Williamson, Everet Claud, P. M.
Williamson, George Edward
Wilson, Robert James
Winslow, Virgil Franklin
Wood, John Henry
Woodward, Charles Rohert
Wright, Homer Vernon
YateR, .John Austin
Zimmer, Raymond Austin
Zumstein, John Anton
-222

WITHDRAWN:
McCollum, William Franklin
Mullan, Nathaniel Somerville
•Bell, Walter James

Kolle, Charles Henry

DIED:
Redpath, Frederick Hope

•Degrees conferred during the year.

ROS'l'ER

•
)

Church, Ralph Owen
Colton, Harry Leslie
Conway, John C.
Craig, Alexander Black
Craig, William Frederick
Davison, Clarence Edgar
Deignan, Osborn Warren
Dunning, Harry Cole
Fainot, Fred H.
Fairburn, Simon
Fischer, Charles Burno, P. M.
Fischer, Edward Albert
Forbes, Charles John
Forbes, Warren Jesse
Fowler, Edgar Blanchard
Fulton, Almond Samuel David
Goodenow, Sylvester
Greenwood, Barzella Victor
Hale, .Tames Deaken
Hall, Francis Herbert
Huse, George Elmer
Jennings, Edward Paul
Kline, Charles Henry, P. M.
Lawrence, Henry Eugene
Ludwig, Uriah S.
McConnell, William Alexander

Murphy, Franklin Edward
Nesselroad, Charles Peyton
Ogier, Clayton
Ogier, Thomas Franklin
Olin, George Monroe, P. M.
Olson, Louis
Parrish, John Wesley
Peyton, John Sherman
Pupka, Martin
Roby, John Tolbert
Rouscup, Henry Wilson
Salsbury, Charles Edward
Bence, Addison
Bence, Ray Robinson
Shelton, Judge Thomas
Storey, Henry Amos
Storey, Nathaniel
Story, Thomas
Swall, Jacob Arthur
Taylor, Mahlon George
Tewsley, John D.
Thompson, Elmer Harmon
Thorne, Wm. Buckingham
Townsend, Wilbur
Wood, George Herbert

-59

BURBANK LODGE, No. 406.
Burbank, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first 'fhursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Judge Thomas Shelton, Master,
William F. Craig, Chaplain,
Burbank, Cal.
Henry A. Story, Senior Deacon,
Edward Albert Fischer, Senior W., Jacob A. Swal1, Junior Deacon,
Ray Robison Sence, Junior Warden, Edward Paul Jennings, Marshal,
Ralph 0. Church, Treasurer,
John H. Anderson, Steward,
George M. Olin, Secretary,
Edward B. Fowler, Steward,
Burbank, Cal.
James D. Hale, Tyler.

Anderson, John Hector
Bashford, Oscar Louis
Blanehud, Wm. Arthur
Bridge, Ernest Hayden

MEMBERS:
Bridge, James Ross
Butterfield, Sampson Harrison
Catlin, Charles William
Church, Henry Arthur

729

WITHDRAWN:
Gill, George .Washington
DIED:
Lovering, Walter Alvero

730

ROSTER

ROSTER

LA MESA LODGE, No. 407.

Ta~·lor, Homer Schuyler
Thoustrup, Julius A. E.
Waterman, William Ashel

La Mesa, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

Brcwn, James Augustus

731

Welch, Lester Darwin
Wentz, Christopher

-51
WITHDRAWN:
Jervis, Richard Bebb

OFFICERS:

Harry Clarence Park, Master,
La Mesa, Cal.
Harry Leslie Robertson, S. W .,
Thomas Arthur Bougher, /. W .,
Alexander Gibson, Treasurer,
John Harry Mallery, Secretary,
La Mesa, Cal.

William Ernest Lyon, Chaplain,
Donald Frank Park, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Haskell Hill, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Walter Leckenby, Marshal,
Howard Ashton Stigers, Steward,
Hugh McRoberts, Steward,
Charles Francis Wilken, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Alford, George L.
Angell, John S.
Atkins, Ben
Birkhead, John Wesley
Bissell, Daniel Lawrence
Baugher, Thomas Arthur
Campbell, John
Canon, Byron Quincy Richard
Canon, Solomon Royce
Croy, Clyde Emerson
Darling, Wm. Rhodes
Davidson, John Burbridge
Davis, John Bates
Gibson, Alexander, P. M.
Grable, Sherman Clayton
Gusweiler, Richard Fred 'k, P. M.
Haines, Robert Knight
II all, Henry Arthur
Hammonds, John Daniel, P. M.
Hancock, Thomas Mitchell
Hill, Chas. Wm.
·nm, Harry Haskell
Hyatt, Simon Daniel
ITe:'"'s, Junius Taylor
Jaynes, Manning
Leckenby, Charles W., P. M.

Light, Edward Benton
I.yon; William Ernest, P. M.
Lyster, Ben Edward
MacRae, John Ann, P. M.
M:i.llery, John Harry
Marker, David C.
Marker, William Maxwell
Matthews, Elbert Cloy
McKee, Thomas Jackson
McKinney, Henry Albert
McNeil, Geo. Allard
McNeil, Milo W.
' McRoberts, Hugh
Park, Charles Clarence, P. M.
Park, Donald Frank
Park, Harry Clarence
Reynolds, Eli A. D.
Robertson, Harry Leslie
Robinson, Ira C.
Rohinson, Jaml'.s Martin
Russell, Henry Lee
Sigler, Juhn Atkinson
Skinner, Asa. Linus
~perhcek, Lorenzo
Stewart, Norman A.
Stigers, Howard Ashton

SIERRA MADRE LODGE, No. 408.
Sierra. Madre, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Harry Edward C. Webb, Master,
Albert Spaulding Mead, Chaplain,
Sierra Madre, Cal.
John Denniston Mackerras, S. D.,
Robert Hamilton Mai:kerras, S. W., Carlton John Pegler, lu11. Deacon,
F·ranklin Biederman, Jun. Warden, Earl S. Mollenkopf, Marshal,
Charles Schiller Kersting, Treas.,
Francis Donald Ross Moote, S .,
George Edward Coapman, Sec.,
Willard Arthur Evans, Steward,
Sierra Madre, Cal.
John Henry Mangold, Tyler.

Adkins, Spencer Dayton
Baker, Chas. Harris
Betts, Charles Henry
Biederman, Franklin
Bridges, Herbert Frank
Bridle, Martin Herbert, P. M.
Bryson, John Alex.
Bush, Wm. Tandy
Carhart, Edwin Cook
Clark, Charles Merton
Clark, Walter Henry
Childs, James Henderson
Coapman, Geo. Edgar
Copps, Marcus Walter
Crow, George
Dennison, Wm. Perry
Deutsch, Emile
Deutsch, William Emile
Depencier, Silas Theo.
Evans, Willard Arthur

MEMBERS:•
Farman, Willis Edward
Flint, Herbert Gordon
Gray, Charles Fred 'k
Hall, William Creighton
Hartman, Franklin Henry
Huston, Chester Thomas
Jones, Charles Worthington
Kersting, Charles Shiller
Lawless, William Joseph, P. M.
Laws, Rowland Dudley
Letteau, George Henry
MacKerras, John Deniston
MacKerra11, Robert Hamilton
Mead, Arthur Spalding
Mitchell, Clyde Withers
Mollenkopf, Earl S.
Moote, Francis Donald Ross
Morgridge, Geo. Burton
Nightingale, John' Henry
Osgood, Josiah Alonzo

ROSTER

732

Pasco, Stanley Clinton
Patterson, Jay Albert, P. M.
Pegl.er, Carlton John
Peterson, Niles Godfred
Pierce, Edward Timothy
Sebree, Chas. Howard
Spafford, Samuel Herbert
Staples, Paul Chester
Steinberger, Harvey Hogan
Steinberger, James Milton
Stevens, Melville
Stubbins, Wm. Henry

Tarr, Nathan Winship
Torrance, Lewis Curtiss
Twycross, Convers Lilly
Veon, Tracey Devere
Vosburg, James Philo
Webb, Harry Edward C.
Walker, William Edward
Welsher, Mark- D.
Yerxa; Cabot Abram
Yerxa, Ernest Lee
Yerxa, Harry Chester
Yerxa, 'fhomas Edward

·ROSTER

-64

WITHDRAWN:
Bechtelheimer, Wayne Edward
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Grant, Ralph Rollo
DIED:
Yerxa, Frederick Robinson

HONOLULU LODGE, No. 409.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Christian Foster Jenkins, Master,
Henry Herbert Williams, Chaplain,
Box 767, Honolulu, H. T.
James Cook McGill, Sen. Deacon,
William Bell, Senior Warden,
Ferdinand John H. Schnack, J. D.,
John Webster Wadman, J. Warden, William Pirmar Thomas, Marshal,
Thomas Herbert Petrie, Treas.,
· Malcolm Macintyre, Steward,
Hugh G. Davis, Secretary,
George Frederick Wright, Steward,
Box 107, Honolulu, H . T.
. George Risdon Howe, Tyler.

Ables, Lemuel Clark
Anderson, Frank Harold
Angus, George Hibbard
Bailey, James Stennet.
Bailey, Vern Le Roy
Baldwin, Charles Wicklifi'ee

MEMBERS:
Barnard, Edward Webb
Barwick, Frank
Beardmore, Stanley
Belser, John Juliu.s, P. M.
Bell, William,
Benner, Edwin

Berg, George Arthur
Hoogs,. William Henry
Bergstrom, John Raymond
"Howard, Walter Lincoln
Bierbach, Otto Arno
Howe, George Risdon
Black, Thomas
Huddy, George Hermann
Blake, Frank Elwood
Hutchins, Clinton James, P. M.
Bowers, Winfield Lane
Hyde, Harry Angier
Broderick, Cyril Aubrey
Iaukea, Curtls Piehu
Brown, Arthur Morgan
Jenkins, Christian Foster
Brown, Charles Augustus
Johnsan, Horace
Buchanan, Wentworth Moehonua· Keech, Alvin Welty
Burden, Henry Waghorne
Kelly, Edward Winfield
Burningham, Thomas Alexander
Kidwell, John, P. M.
Burrows, Henry
Kinney, William Adelbert
Bush, John
Kluegel, George Taylor
Canfield, Ira Day Parsons
Krafft, Alfred
Carr, Sidney Taylor
La-Pierre, Louis Lafayette
Cassidy, John
· Lange, Robert Frederic
Chadwick, Harold
Lerch, Alfred Lexington
Chapin, Elam Porter
Levy, Jules Milton
C:halmers, Joseph
·Lind, John
Clay, James Frederic
~. Lougher, Thomas Henry
Cockburn, Alexander
Lov.ekin:; Arthur Charles
Coleman, Gano W.
Ludwigsen, Charles John
Cullen, John
Lyle, James Alex.
Davis, Hugh Geo.
Lyle, James·
Dow, Willard Elmer
Macintyre, Malcolm
Drew, ,John Henry, P. M.
Maconachie, David Brown
Durfee, Charles Hudson
Martin, George Albert
Evans, John Creigh
Marx, Benjamin Lodge
Fenwick, James Fenton, P. M.
May, Harry
Fisher, Henry Shepard
McCandless, James Sutton
Fraser, William Sutherland
McDonald, Jonathan Titus
Frazier, Chas. Russell, P. M.
McGill, James Cook
Gallagher, Hugh James
McStocker, Frank Blakesley
Gibbs, Edward
Meyer, August William
Gibson, James Bray
Murray, Chas. Fran<lis, P. M.
Oibson, Thomas Herbert
Neal, Charles Micajah
Giles, Henry Augustus
Nicoll, Wm. Watson
Graham, Chalmers Alfonse
0 'Brien, Frederick K eighran
Guild, Archibald Smith
Olding, Edwin Ernest
Hall, John
Palmer, Frank Clark
Harris, Thomas Paine
- --- ·-Varis, Edwin Hall
Harvey, James William
Patten, Jarvis Roy
Hind, Robert
Patten, William Nunn
Hind, John
Pecht, George Henning

733

ROSTER

735

ROSTER

734

Storey, Wm. Franklin
Tait, John
Tenney, Edward Davies
Thomas, Wm. Pirmar
Thompson, William
Thrum Frederick William
Todd, ~lbert Edward William
Trent, Richard Henderson
Tulloch, George Prestly
Van Dine, Delos Lewis
Wadman, John Webster
w aldron, Frederick Lincoln
Walker, John
Walker, Oliver Henry
Wayson, James Thomas
Webb, Marshall Hickman
Welbourn, William Alfred
White, Edwin Oscar
Wight, J. Atkins
Williams, Frederick Thomas
Williams, Henry Herbert, P. M.
Winston, Emmet Claibo:·ne
w orrel 1 Rochfort Harry
Smith, Henry
wood Edgar
Smith, Jared Gage
'
b t
F d'k Lucas P. M. Wood, Hu er
Stanley, Wm. re
'
Wright George Frederick
Steiner, James
Young' Alexander Smart
Stewart, Lewis Hen~':
y
' John Alexander
Nm1an
oung,
·ir
Stewart, W 1 illm
William Edward
-160
Stodart, Arthur Gray
Young,

Perkins, Roscoe Wiley, P. M.
Peters, Emil Cornelius
Petrie, Thomas Herbert
Phillips, Peter Tait
Pond, Percy Martyn
Potter, George Clinton
Purcell, Herbert Gurley
Renton George Fullerton
Rowald, Charles Frederick Geo.
Rozier, William
Rugg, George Ellis
Rycroft, Robert Henry
Sack, Jacob William
Sanborn, Walter Foss
Sanford, Arthur Nott
Schnack Ferdinand John Henry
Sedgwick, Thomas Farrington
Severance, Raymond Campbell
Shaw, Henry Leonard
Shingle, Robert Witt
Smith, Clement George
Smith, George Waterman, P. M.

Downing, Joseph Irving

WITHDRAWN:
Yeaman, James Ferguson
DIED:
Hartwell, Alfred Stedman

CHARTER ROCK LODGE, No. 410.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday of e~ch month.
OFFICERS:

Albert Martin Poulsen, Master,
2314 Grant St., l3erkeley.
Philipp Nicklas, Senior Warden,
Ralph Winter Myers, Jun. Warden,
William Brady, Jr., Treasurer,
Frank Russell Warnick, Secretary,
2315 Parker St., Berkeley.

John Absalom B. Fry, Chaplain,
William Amos Louis, Sen. Deacon,
Henry Robert Braden, Jun. Deacon,
Frederic Morgan Lee, Marshal,
Charles Harper Walworth, Steward,
George Ledwidge Sargent, Steward,
Leroy Johnstone Cope, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Blomstad, Martin
Adams, Peter Moir
Bly, William Irwin
Agnew, David Ralston
Bonham, Louis Aron
Aitken, Thomas Smith
Akers, Charles Duval, P. M.
Braden, Henry Robert
Alderson, Frederick Lee
Bradford, George Hosack
Brady, William, Jr.
Allen, Albert Henry
Allen, James Alphonzo
Brandt, Albert Upp.
Almind, Anders Emmett
Breckenridge, William Mitchell
Anewalt, Henry Peter, P. M.
Bruns, George Louis
Angwin, Edwin Lawrence
Buhring, Harry Hermann
Armstrong, George Oliver
Burgess, Ezra Ottley
Atkins, John William
Burpee, Walter Joseph
Atkinson, Christopher
Camm, Charles William
Auze, Alfred
Canham, James Victor
Ayer, Wash. Eugene
Cardwell, Edward
Baker, John Donald
Carlton, Henry Harris
Ball, Wm. Fred 'k., Jr.
Carroll, Thomas Henry
Barthold, Robert Mathias
Chamberlin, West
Bass, William Guthrie
Chappell, Marvin Lee
Battee, Albert Jackson
Clay, Allen Morgan
Bayley, Simeon Stovall
Coates, Alfred Hoag
Beckett, Franklin Samuel, P. M.
Cobbledick, Frank Merion
Bennett, Fred Chaunc7
Collignon, Dewey Philip
Bennett, Herman
Comstock, Levi James
Bell, William Jordan
Cope, Harry Laverne
Biggerstaft', Eugene Knight
Cope, Leroy Johnstone
Blake, Sherman Tecumseh
Cosby, Hogan Douglai
Blanchard, Dudley Ravaud
Coxhead, Franklin George
Bliss, Charles Emerson
Creagmile, James Albert

736

ROSTER

HOSTER

Hibbard, Duane Albert
Creagmile, John Ccwan
Hicks, Arthur Fred 'k T.
Crew, Joshua Stafford
Higgin, Frederick George
Crystal, Edward Courtney
Himler, Morris Charles
Cunha, Joseph Oliver
Holling, Henry Wm.
Dallerup, Charles
Hollister, John Wilson
Dalton, Russell Cole
Hooe, Raleigh Pearce
Dawson, Charles Parsons
Hotchkiss, James Miller
Davis, Charles Austin
Hulett, Stuart McKeuster
Davis, Rollo Josiah
Humann, Henry
Day, Russell Traver
Hurt, Frederick Octavius
De Witt, Ernest McC.
Ingram, Wm. Foote
Dinsmore, Harold Marshall
Jacco, Edward
Dryer, Roy Elbridge
Jackman, Francis McCabe
Dunlap, Luther Albert
Jaggard, Belmont Perry
Dowdell, Thomas
Jameson, Charles Henry
Edwards, Guy Dunsmore
Jefferson, Louis Weston
Ehlert, Chas. Henry
Jeffrey, Arthur
Elder, David Paul
Jewett, Harold Woodward
Eldridge, Arno Fisher
' Johnson, Willard Callen
Erwin, Wm. Everett
Jones, Howard
Farrell, Charles De Lattre ·
Jones, Charles Thomas
Finny, William Norman
Jory, Arthur Veryan
Francis, John Trigidga
Jory, John
Freeman, Charles Henry
Jory, Stafford Lele an
Frenzel, Erdman August
Keith, Charles Butler
Fry, John Absalom B.
Kendrick, Levi Jackson
Fox, Christopher Bernhardt
Kettenbach, Oscar Leland
Garrard, Edward James
Kieffer, Stephen Ephra.im
Geiger, Jacob Luther
. King, Geo. Fenton
George, Athol Henry
·Klitgaard, Carl Edler
Gillchrest, Lawrence Raymond
Koerber, Fred 'k Chas.
Goin, Guy Lawson
Kruse, Fred Herman
Goodman, Harvey Pulaski .
Lance, Lucien Charles
Gould, Charles Walter
Lee, Frederic Morgan
Grigsby, Warren Miller
Linscott, Ernest Garfield
Haas, Benjamin Hermann
LipppJd, Herman Joseph
Hall, Edward Lee
Lorigiib'a ugli, Rudolph Ignatius
Hall, Sherrill Woodworth
Louis, Williaifi Amos
Harms, Frederick William, l'. M.
'Lucy, Roscoe Warren
Harper, Samuel Leighty
'Lyon, Harry David
Haug, Thaddeus Leon E.
' Madeira, William Ives
Hayward, Harrison Nelson
, Malde, Harry
Hector, Robert
' Marsh, George Irwin
Henderson, Blythe Hendricks
Marshall, John Albert
Henderson, Edward Franklin

0

·

McCracken, John Porter
McGinnis, Richard Brodhead
McHale, Philip Edward
McKean, William Giles
Mead, Harry Ransome
Mensing, Harrison Rudolph
M~nsing, Herman Rudolph
Miller, Frank Leslie
Miller, Julius William
Mills, Frank
Misenhelder, Charles
Moffat, James
Moffett, Edward Davis
Moore, Clinton P.
Moore, Joseph George
Moore, Thomas Edward
Moore, William Glover
Morris, Ira Allen, P. M.
Morris, John Westley
Morrish, William Francis
Moulthrop, John Robert
Mouser, Webster Brain
Myers, Ralph Winter
Nash, John Henry
Needham, Harry Burr
Nichols, Richard Griffoz
Nicklas, Philipp
Norman, Jacques Phineas
Nuttall, William
0 'Brien, Patrick Edwin
0 'Grady, Thomas Frederick
Ollson, Lester Edmonds
Olney, Clyde Charles
Olsen, Jacob
Osborn, Harold Higgins
Page, Ernest Stoddard
Pape, George Louis
Park, Joseph Marion
Parkinson, George Martin
Patten, Joseph Albert
Pearson, Frank Ralph
Peter, Jesse, Jr.
Petty, John James
Phair, John
fl

Philliber, Charles Louis
Plumb, Max Alaric, P. M.
Poston, Newton
Poulsen, Albert Martin
Pratt, George Albert
Pratt, George Herbert
Rankin, Joseph James
Raphael, James Grierson
Re~d, Robert Lincoln, p, M.
Re1smann, Herman John
Renas, Joseph Thomas
Reynolds, David Lawrence
Reynolds, Henry Clarence
Richardson, George Worth
Riggs, Dalton Wallace
Roberts, David Samuel
Robertson, Ralph Denny
Robson, Frederick Thurston
Roe, Joseph William
Rohlfs, John Charles
Rose, William Edward ' p . M.
R ussell, Earle
Rutherford, Peter
Salbach, Leopold Frederick
Sargent, Geo. Ledwidge
Scheer, Gustavus Adolphus
Schulze, Desere Henry
Scott, James Robert
Seaton, Horace Scott
Siegelhorst, Louis
Sebastian, Carl Wm.
Sellers, Oscar
S~attuck, William Joseph
Sliaw, Addison Eugene
Sheldon, Hiram Franklin
Sherman, Robert Lawrence
Shields, Fred Rex
Shingle, Louis Conger
Shuey, Robert Alton
Simmons Oliver M
Slater, jonathan Lambert
Slater, Lambert Norman
Smith, Harold
·
Smith, Samuel Wilson, l'. M.

737

738

ROSTER

ROSTER

Smith, Willard Payson
Snell, Henry Farnam
Somersett, Robert Clinton
Souza, Emanuel Carl
Squier, Jay James
Stenger, William Henry
Stevens, Jerome Eugene
Stillman, Charles
Starkweather, George Albert
Stout, George Homer
Strawson, William Pearson
Stutt, Edgar Banks
Stutt, John
Stutt, Robert Wash. Christopher
Sweeney, Henry Logom
Taylor, James Benj.
Terkelson, Albert Crist
'l'ienken, Emil Henry
Thompson, Arthur Evelyn
Thompson, Chadwick
Tucker, Arthur John·
Valentine, Edward Sharp, P. M.
Van Gorder, Arthur Grant

Van Kirk, Charles Aaron
Van Kirk, Linford Reeder
Van Tassell, Fred Hugh
Wal~orth, ChRrles Harper
Walworth, Stephen Leonard
Wann, William Asbury
Warnick, Frank Russell, P. M.
Warnick, James William
Watt, John Nelson
Weber, Adolph Gottig
Weber, Adolph Hans·
Webster, Thomas Eugene
Weslar, Willard Howard
Wilson, Clarence Cicero
Winkler, Theophilus
Wolcott, Benjamin Randolph
Wolcott, Lee Wheeler
Wolcott, John Allan
Woodward, Walter LeRoy
"Worster, William Dennett
Wright, Benjamin F.
Wright, Ernest William

WITHDRAWN:
McKie, Ernest Lester
Howard, Arthur
Schumann, Otto Alfred
Jane, William Treganowan
SUSPENDED FOR U NMASONIC CONDUCT
Stevenson, Edward Alexander
DIED:
J effress • Ernest Gunn
Fayman James William
'
McKain, 'Edward James

739

PERRIS LODGE, No. 411.
Perris, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Alonzo Guthridge, Master, Cornelius Vermason, Chaplain,
Albert Houston Dunlap, Jr., S. D.,
Ethanac, Cal.
Rufus Merritt Hook, Jun. Deacon,
Peter Willikin, Senior W ard11n,
Edward Rodolph Stalder, J. War., Frederick James Bonner, Marshal,
Harry Prentiss Maxfield, Steward,
Wilbert W. Stewart, Treasurer,
Gifford Brown Gifford, Secretary, Robert R. W . Michler, Steward,
George Brum, Tyler.
Perris, Cal.

-2Sl

MEMBERS:
Adams, James Edwin
Henrich, Louis, Andrew
Anderson, Nils
Hogue, .Charles Leavitt
Bernasconi, Joseph James
Hook, Joseph Frederic, P. M.
Black, Frederick William
Hook, Rufus Merritt
Bonner, Fred 'k James·
Kimbell, Albert Thomas
Brum, George
Kirkpatrick, Thomas Dewitt
Lanier, Thomas Luther
Cowles, Charles Henry
Crandall, Dell Garner
Long, Joseph Burnett
Cummins, George Wash., P. M.
Lowery, Joseph Samuel
Dunlap, Ross Richmond
Maxfield, Harry Prentiss
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Jr.
Michler, Robert Raymond Wm.
Ellis, William Henry
Milliken, Peter
Frederick, Abner Rollin
Muir, Wm. Gardner
Gifford, Gifford Brown
Noonan, John Edwin
Guthridge, William Alonzo
Reese, John Wesley
Reece, Walter Lyle
Gyger, Charles Elmer
Sheldon, Daniel W.
Gyger, James Henry
Handley, Pliny Andrews
Short, Wm. Chester
Handley, Otho Nelson
Stalder, Edward Rodolph
Hanzlik, Otto J.
Steuart, Wilbert W.
Hately, John George
Vassilopulos, Antonio
Haun, William Mars
V ermason, Cornelius
Harford, Henry Morey, P. M.
Walker, John Em.o ry
Hawkinson, Harry Walfred
Young, Charles Melvin
-48
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hamblin, Alfred Stanford Brown
DIED:
Hungate, William Thomas

•

740

ROSTER

ROSTER

741

WITHDRAWN:
Jones, Percy Francis
'l'heobald, Harry Couch
McCollum, Emmett Sylvester
W otford, Preston Hicks

CALEXICO LODGE, No. 412.
CaleXico, Imperial County.

DIED:

Stated Meetings, fourth Wednesday in each month.

McCollum, George Washington

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

WAUCOBA LODGE, No. 413.

MEMBERS:
Aitchison, Robert Megrath
Aitken, Walter Theodore, P. M.
Allison, Joseph Chester
Anderson, George William
Anderson, Paul Pierre
Becker, Adolph Earnest
Boyce, David Aron
Boyce, John Ely
Brooks, Due Phillips
Brown, Carlton Barstow, P. M.
Burdick, Edward Grant
Calvert, Benjamin Samuel
Chadwick, Fred Charles
Christopher, Thomas
Cline, Frederick
Crocker, George Stephen
Darrough, Andrew Magnus
Dool, Edward
Edmunds, James Marshall
Giles, John Franklin
Goff, Arthur Grey
Goree, Robert Gould
Griswold, Harry Holland
Hardesty, G. W.
Henry, Charles Burton
Hoffman, James Boorse, P . M.
Hughes, Tho~as Henry
Hyde, Oliver Perry
Jacobson, Leve Simon
.Jarvis, Hollis Austin

•

Big Pine, Inyo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.

Knapke, William Frederick
Little, Leroy
Muppin, Hugh Joyner
Martin, Chas. Edwin
Mason, Fred
McHarg, Sidney
Miller, Thomas Thornton
Morrison, John Allan
Pace, John Cowden
Pangborn, Edmund J. W.
Packard, David Stewart
Phelps, Abbie John
Potter, Lawrence Addison
Pruett, Govie Paris
Reynolds, Samuel
Rice, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Rice, Jesse Marion
Rich, Henry Johnson
Rockwood, Leroy Newton
Rouse, Herbert Milton
Shenk, Adolphus Mallalin
Stahman, Bennett Herman
Stewart, Chas. Duff
Vandiver, James H.
Van Wagenen, Roy
Webber, Lewis Henry
Wood, Allan Claire
Young, Thomas Earl
Young, Wheeler Burton

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Baker, Napoleon Leon
Briggs, Walter Earnest
Davis, Wm. Lewis
Dowd, James Henry
Hall, George Wallace
Hale, John
Harlin, George Albert
Jones, James
Joseph, Louis
Logan, Frank
Logan, Robert Howard
McAfee, George Addison
McDonald, Allan Ray

I .

Custer, Rolla John

McMurray, John Wesley
McMurray, Jonathan Wesley, P. M.
McMurray, Samuel Goforth
McMurray, Samuel Bennett
Mendenhall, Harry W.
Mendenhall, William Wesley
Oberholeter, George Washington
Price, John Frank
Reinhackel, Edward
Schalten, Wm. Frederic
Smith, Walter L.
Turner, Charles Edward, P. M.
Woodhams, Henry Crane
-26
WITHDRAWN:
Reed, Steward
DIED:
Wilkerson, Grover

-59

742

ROSTER

ROSTER

ARLINGTON LODGE, No. 414.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third :rhursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Angus Leonard Cavanagh, Master, Horace Eaton Brown, Chaplain,
1415 .Fourth Ave.
Lisle D. Smith, Senior Deacon,
Arthur Taggart Jackson, S. Warden,-Frank Lambert Stiff, Jun. Deacon,
Sidney Mairn Reeve, J, Warden,
Stephen Ogden, Marshal,
Isaac Freemont Hughes, Treasurer, Justin Theodore Brocksieper, S.,
James Clinton Lewfa, Secretary,
Orville Cooley Montgomery, S.,
1606 Van Ness Ave.
Eugene L~onard Titus, Tyler.

Adair, George Mitchell
Adams, Robert Henry
Austin, Merritt Eugene
A van, Chas. Edward
Bailey, Charles Frederick
Barrow, Thomas Martin
Bieber, Jacob, P. M.
Bolton, Thomas Lance
Blomquist, Wallace Hess
Broeksieper, Justus Theo.
Briggs, Harry J.
Brow'n, Hora·ce Eaton
Byington, Frank Smith
Bush, Edward Everett
Cavanaugh, Angus Leonard
Crawford, Hugh Joseph
Dehm, Wm. Harry
Dickinson, William Richard
Dietrich, Edward .
Easton, George Blakeley
Ensign, Frank C.
Erven, Jesse Earl
Foster, Abram Hoagland
Frizelle, Uri Ellsworth
Garrett, Samuel Hartley
Gilmer, John Parks, P. M.
Golden, John William
Gray, Lucien
Green, James Shelley

MEMBERS:
Hall, Almon Asa
Hall, Glenn Corilla
Hawk, Charles Whetzel
Hawkinson, Elmer Vietor
Henderson, Wm. Franklin
Henry, Alexander Ross
Henshey, Harry Campbell
Holland, Earl Rively
Howdershell, Bedford James
Huffman, Frederick Burnett
Hughes, Herbert Franklyn, P. M.
Hughes, Isaac Fremont
Jackson, Arthur Taggart
·Jahns, Wm. Herman
· Kennedy, Karl K.
Krohn, Henry George
Leeds, Walter Ransome
Lewis, James Clinton, P. M.
Locke, Edmund
Lowe, Fred Milne
Lyndall, Charles Penny, P. M.
Maeurda, Arthur A.
Max, William Emil
MeKeeby, George Lemuel
Meidroth, Arthur Joseph
Middleton, Charles Odell
Montgomery, Orville Cooley
Morrison, Frederick William
_ .N.:orton, James Lee

743

Sturgeon, Berry Albert
Swan, John Roy
Swift, Chester Arthur
Teeter, Ray Olney
Trask, Dummer Kiah
Van Pelt, Charles Norman
Ward, William Allen
Watt, Frank David
Wern, Otis Emanuel
Widney, Erwin Wilson
Willcox, John Wealton
Williams, Warren Lamont
Wilson, Herbert Bruce

Norton, Slocum Barker
Ogden, Stephen
Petitfils, Evart Lain
Price, Ernest Edward
Rall, William Cary
Reeve, Sidney Nairn
Roberts, George Watson
Rose, Henry Howard
Ryan, Frank James
Slater, John Henry
Smith, Lesia D.
Snook, Homer Wendell
Specht, Joseph Christian
Stiff, Frank Lambert

-85
WITHDRAWN:
Walker, Thomas Eaton

SILVER TROWEL LODGE, No. 415.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jacob Solomon Fogel, Master,
1806 New Hampshire Street.
Charles Leland Bagley, S. W.,
Louis Delimore Hammon, J. W.,
Everett Moffitt, Treasurer,
Allan Cowles Keith, S ecretary,
124 1-2 E. Sth Street.

Abdullah, Ahmed
Altland, Edwin Neiman
Arbuckle, George Brown
Arend, William Frank
Bacon, Richard Sherman
Bagley, Chas. Leland
Baker, Rolland E.
Bates, William E.
Baumann, Fred William
Bean, Walter Franklin

Sinery William Campbell, Chaplain,
Frank Ellsworth Judy, S. Deacon,
John Douglas Tobias, l. Deacon,
William Henry Donehue, Marshal,
Ralph Garnett Waterlue, Steward,
Rolin Rudolph Tobias, Steward,
Adolph J . Maas, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bennett, Samuel Bennett
Bishop, Artemus Henry
Blanchard, Clarence William
Borden, Admiral Farragut
Bryson, Jesse Downing
Burns, Robert Wallace, P. M.
Campbell, Sinery Wm.
Childres!!', Fred Burton
Clapp, Elbert James
Clayton, Frank Rae, P. M.

744

ROST EH

Clayton, George Marshal McClean
Colhouer, Chas. Smith
Covert, Angelo Theo.
Danziger, Morris
Davidson, Ben Leo
Dombrowsky, Gottleib
Donehue, Wm. Henry
Dowell, Herbert Daniel
Elser, Fred 'k Uris
Evans, Charles Alfred
Filson, Alfred Wm.
Fisher, Joseph Peter
Fleming, Moses Alex.
Fogel, Jacob Solomon
Fritz, Otto
Geoffrion, Victor Oscar
Goldsmith, Joseph Hayden
Green, Frank Erwin
Green, Thornton John
Gutterson, Fred 'k Stickney
Hahn, Benj. Winfield
Halberg, Bernard Theodore
Hamilton, Harley Erastus
Hammon, Louis Delinmore
Hansen, Adolph Bernhardt
Herbst, Gustav Adolph
Hicks, Commodore Perry
Howe, William Jay
Judy, Frank Ellsworth
Kamipermeyer, Edward Chas.
Keith, Allan Cowles
Kirshenbaum, Samuel
Krauss, Chas. Edward
Laraia, Artemio Wm.
Lee, John Ronald
Levy, Alfred Morris
Lewis, Lew Englander
Lewison, Andrew
Lockart, Albert Jacques
Lyke, Charles William
Maygrove, R. Walter
Mccaughey, Wm. Dwight
Meday, Henry Hawes, P. M.
Meyer, Louis Median
Middleton, Frank Elmer

Millard, Edward Fred 'k Wm.
Miller, Rudolph Richard
Moffitt, Everett
Musso, Rotto Vincent
Natsky, Charles· Gustav
Neeland, John Milton
Nelson, George Eliot
Neuman, Maurice
Newby, George William
Nichols, Samuel Arthur
Paul, Samuel John
Pendleton, Frank Dean
Petersen, Johan Carl
Phelps, William Wallace
Pontecorvo, Pascal
Porter, Charles Hastings
Rassomme, Joseph Giles
'Saxman, Wm. Henry
Schlund, Carl
Schneider, William
Shultz, Charles Edgar
Smeby, Adolph Henry
Smith, Leslie Earl
Stick, John Chester
Stone, Lewis Shepard
Taylor, . Carleton Maybin
Taylor, Humphrey
Tobias, John Douglas
Tobias, Robin Rudolph
Tweeddale, John
Vieille, Albert Constant
Wallace, John Kipper
Walter, Leland Dewane
Waterlue, Ralph Garnett
Watson, Charles Frank
Watt, James Albert
W ellenbrink, Herman Henry
Williams, Clinton Herbert
Wilson, Wm. Benton
Wright, Arthur, P. M.
Yerance, Wm.
York, Ellis Glenn
Young, Gavin
Young, James Francis
Zemansky, David
-110

ROSTER

745

LINDSAY LODGE, No. 416.
Lindsay, Tulare County.
Stated Meet~ngs, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Rason Jabez Reed, Master,
Zina Edwin Page, Chaplain,
Lindsay, Cal.
George William Trauger, S . Deacon,
Pleasant Moore Northern, S . War. , Albert Conrad Tienken, J. Deacon,
William John Gardner, J. Wa rden, William Row Livingston, Marshal,
George Victor Rt:ed, Treasurer,
Harvey Andrew Harr, Steward,
Robert Morgan Carr, S ecretary,
Edwin Dana Wicks, Steward,
Lindsay, Cal.
N elson Clark Strain, T)•ler.
MEMBERS:
Barr, Harvey Andrew
Bishop, Dexter 0.
Cammeron, Wm. M.
Carle, Charles J.
Carr, Robert Morgan
Coon, William J .
Dowell, Chester
Gardner, William J.
Gearhart, George A.
Gorton, Wm. E.
Gordon, Wm. R.
Grimsley, Wann A.
Harth, Arthur P.
Henderson, Marion K., P. M.
Hill, Theodore R.
Irwin, James W.
Jackson, Claude C.
Jackson, Charles Benton
Johnson, Wm. M.
Jones, Wiley F.
Livingston, William R.
McLees, Edmund, P. M.
McLees, John H.
McLees, Martin C., P. M.
Mallory, Charles Perrin

Martin, George
Miller, Sam T.
Morley, Wm. A.
Morrison, Herbert C., P. M.
Northern, Pleasant Moore
Ostrander, Philip T.
Page, Zina E., P. M.
Peterson, Harry Danziel
Porter, Wm. E.
Reed, George V., P. M.
Reed, Rayson Jabey
Redmond, Henry E.
Rookledge , Percival L .
Stegemeier, Charles F.
Sutherland, Albert William
Theis, Joseph P.
Trauger, George William
Trenken, Albert Conrad
Turner, John H .
Van Deusen, Ezra B.
Waddell, George Harold
Warson, Starr A.
Wicka, Dana Edward
Wymer, D. W.

WITHDRAWN:
Hunter, Irom Parker

--49

746

ROSTER

ROSTER

CLOVIS LODGE, No. 417.

ELYSIAN LODGE, No. 418.

Clovis, Fresno County.
Stated meetings Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

747

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Guy Fawkes Matheny, Master,
Frank Elmer Buckman, S. Deacon,
Fresno, Cal.
Charles Jason Fenner, /. Deacon,
Vinton Julius Clifford, S . Warden, Lewis Wills Gibson, Marshal,
Charles Taylor Reyburn, l . Warden, Frederick Walter Smith, Steward,
James Gordon Ferguson, Treasurer, Fred Brunn ell Blakely, Steward,
Albert Sylvester Kirkpatrick, Sec., Robert E. Lee Coker, Tyler.
Clovis, Cal.

OFFICERS:
Charles Austin Jones, Master,
Henry Busse, Chaplain,
833 Waterloo Street.
Rae Gird Van Cleve, Senior Deacon,
William Thayer McNeely, S. War., John Taberrah Longhan, J. Deacon,
Reginald Wirt Clapp, ltm. Warden, Charles Roy Fagan, Marshal,
Robert Daniels, Treasurer,
Walter Vaughn Scott, Steward,
Louis Buhlert, Secretary,
Arthur Beardsley, Steward,
318 W. 17th Street.
Elisha Robert Dobson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Howison, Thomae, Sr.
Anderson, Frank Arthur
Johnson, Herbert Guary
Armstrong, Harry Elsworth
Kirkpatrick, Albert Sylvester
Birge, Morton Ault
Matheney, Guy Fawkes
Broadman, Nicholaue Ernest
McCormick, Leonard D.
Buckman, Frank Elmer
Morgan, Harry Clarence
Clay, Louie Edward
Palmer, Ralph B.
Clifford, J'ulius Vinton
Parker, Wilbur Bird
Coker, · Robert Edward
Reed, Chas. Zedikiah
Fenner, Chas. Jason
Reyburn, Charles Taylor
Ferguson, James Gordon
Sargent, Winthrop Wm.
Gibson, Clyde Lewie
Shackelford, Glenn Newton
Gibson, Lewie Wills, P. M.
Smith, Frederick Walter, P. M.
Good, John Ellis
Taylor, Leroy, P. M.
Hawkins, Henry Edward
Touzy, William J.
Harbert, Fred 'k Mortimer
Weldon, Luther Edward, P. M.
Harvey, Lewie William
Williams, Henry C.
Hays, Nathan Henry
-35
Hendricks, Alfred

MEMBERS:
Andrews, J. Harry
Dale, Harry Meredith
Ansley, Barzallai Sanders
Daniels, Robert
Armstrong, Andrew Franklin
Denison, Wm.
Aull, Ralph Wiehgar
Dennis, Al£red Earle
Becker, John Clemenci
Dickman, John Theo.
Dobson, Elisha ·Robert, P. M.
Bailey, Julius Francie
Baker, Thomas Geoghegan
Doran, William C.
Dunahoo, George Richard
Bayley, Walter A.
Beardsley, Arthur
Edwards, Robt. Vernon
Beaumont, Frank Carroll
Fagan, Cha11. Roy
Finlayson, Frank Graham, P. M.
Bell, Tyree Alexander
Bevier, Ben Burwell
Ford, Harry Reinheart
Bidgood, St. Clair
Foxley, Elvey A.
Blayney, Horace E.
Frampton, William Rex
Bont, Geo. Franz
Fuller, Etson Martin
Braseey, Rene Alexander
Gaines, William Albert
Brown, Charles Arthur
Garrett, Banning Charles
Brown, Claude Charles
Gehr, Arthur Ray
Buhlert, Louis
Gilchrist, John Fred
Burgess, P hilip Henry
Gregory, Miles Serena
Burke, Robert John, P .. M.
Gray, Benj. F.
Christes, Henry August
Grow, Wm. Jeffries
Clapp, Reginald Wirt
Harp, Charles B.
Clemmons, William
Hay t, Arthur Pugsley
Cohn, Leonard Buschke
Heerdt, George Henry
Coleman, Joseph Eeving
Hitz, Adolph
Cooke, Thomas Cadwallader
Hoffman, Arthur M.
Cowen, Bert
Hollenbeck, Err:eet Morton
Craw, Ralph Victor
Hood, Robert J.

WITHDRAWN:
Oraves, Myron 0 .

748

ROSTER
ROSTER

Hornsby, Isaac Hersebel
Howard, Frank Samuel
Hudson, Frank Mooler
Ingram, William Marcus
lsenstein, Jacob
Jack, Alvin Wyckoff
Jones, Charles Austin
Kaplan, Nathan
Kennedy, Wm. John
Kerr, Max Harold
Kidd, James Gordon
King, Frederick Richard
Kitts, Robert John
Lawhorn, Wm. B.
Laws, Rex William
Livingstone, George Benjamin
Loughan, John Taberrah
Marshal, Clarence
Mayfield, William Owen
McNeely, William Thayer
Miller, Howard Alex.
Morley, Frank George
Morrison, Charles Shannon
Morrison, Henry Summerland
Moyse, John Ira
Nichols, Michael
Norton, Frank Elder
Palmer, George Wellsley
Pende, Anthony Emanuel
Percival, Winston G.

Philips, James
Pike, Jerry
Rappaport, Max
Reed, John Chalfant
Rhodin, Oscar August
Robinson, Wm. John
Rose, Leo A.
Schmidt, John
Scott, Walter Vaughn
Shand, John Lamond
Silberbauer, Ferdinand Karl
Seligman, Guy A.
Shoults, Tracy Elbridge
Smith, Amos Allen
Speakman, Harry
Stair, Edward
Stephens, George
Struth, Carl Frederick Henry
Summerfield, Johnson W.
Ta!um, Herman Doyle
Trescott, William Herbert
Troxel, Ei°ioch Aaron, P. M.
Tully, Jay "'Valter
Twining, Daniel
Van Cleve, Rae Gird
Weidemoyer, Thomas
Wetzel, Thomas Austin
Winn, Jesse Aubrey
Wolff, Lorenz Christian
Wood, Warren Powell
-118

\\"ITHDRAWN:
Kenyon, James Monroe

UPLAND

LODGE,

749

No.

419.

Upland, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frederic Charles Froehde, Master, Jacob Leander Motsinger, Chaplain,
Upland, Cal.
James Linwood Grahame, S. Deac.,
Ernest Christian Mehl, Sen. Ward. , William Alexander Lucas, J. Deac.,
Dorcy Gould Howell, Jun. Warden, William Gambriel Mumper, Marshal,
Howard Orin Ward, Treasurer,
Lyman Magee Clark, Steward,
George Petitt Smith, Secretory,
Edward Farnham Damon, Steward,
Upland, Cal.
Charles Oliver Deverts (of Ontario
Lodge), Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andrews, Walter Henry
Long, Perry Oliver
Betz, Charles Henry
Lucas, Wm. Alex.
Bradley, LeRoy
Mathews, Elmer Lester
Barnett, Cephas Logan
Miskell, Oli'ler Louis
Mehl, Ernest Christian
Campbell, William
Mooneyham, William Pleasant
Chaffee, William Riley
Clark, Hudson Daley
Monroe, James Frankland
·c1ark, Lyman Magee
Motsinger, Jacob Leander
Crane, George Rice
Mumper, William Gamalial
Damon, Edward Farnham
Nichols, Thomas Milan
Dundas, George Milton
Palmer, Millard Filmore
Fuller, Charles Pierce
Rarick, John
Fuller, Elijah Pierce
Rosenberger, Elsen Casper
Froehde, Fred 'k Charles
Rupp, Wm. Hack
Graham, James Lynwood
Seayes, Clarence Eugene
Granger, Edmond Hatcher
Simpson, William D.
Hadden, Abram Olney
Smith, George Pettit, P. M.
Smith, Linley Herold
Hall, Albert Jay, P. M.
Stocker, Jacob
Hobbs, Orrie S.
Holmes, Fred 'k. Augustus
Thayer, Ernest Wentworth
Holtz, Frederick William
Tucker, Lawrence Edward
Tyler, Labin Jehiel Elmer
Horst, Wm. Henry
Van Wormer, Edwin Bertram
Howell, Dorsey Gould
Wagner, Robert Adams
Huntington, Arthur Elon
Worthington, Andrew Jackson
Hursey, George Wesley, P. M.
Wheeler, Henry L,
Jackson, Harrison Webster
Wimpress, Charles Henry
Johnson, Arthur Hewitt
Kenedy, Harry Clayton
Ward, Howard Orin
Laizure, Oliver Clemmens
-57

750

.ROSTER

ROSTER
WITHDRAWN:

Manderville, Henry Louis

INGLEWOOD

'fucker, Simeon Franklin

LODGE,

751

No.

421.

Inglewood, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

DIED:
OFFICERS:

Davidson, Alonzo Stedman

KERMAN

LODGE, No.

William Sullivan Hudson, Master,
Inglewood, Cal.
John Aerick, Senior Warden,
Frank Sherman Friend, Junior W.,
Wilmot George Brown, Treasurer,
James Herbert Kew, Secretary,
Inglewood, Cal.

420.

Kerman, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Friday on or preceding Full Moon.

MEMBERS:

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMB,ERS:
Arnold, David Elmer, P. M.
Barnard, Arthur Lee
Bell, Russell Carlile
Brunskill, Corwin. James
Carlsgaard, Peter Hansen
Carnine, Newton Edgar
Churchill, Vernon Russell.
Cormack, Robert Stewart
Cowan, Alexander
Fassett, Azen Samuel
Gardner, Richard
Hechtman, Henry Albert
Henderson, Edward Bernhart
Jackson, Gordon
Johnson, John Alfred
Kaufman, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.

Kaufmann, Benjamin
Kerr, Charles Seymour
Sandell, Amil Daniel
Sandell, Leslie George, P. M.
Sandell, Lyle Frank
Smith, Fred Anson
Snyder, Frank Asa
Snyder, Frank Hamilton
Snyder, George Edwin
Spafford, Edward N.
Spafford, M. R.
Storgaard, Lawrence Holm
Strain, John Elsworth
Van Horn, Herbert Emery
Whitehead, Frank Alsworth
Whiteside, Jules Alden

WITHDRAWN:
Metz, Carl Peter
DIED:
Larson, Walter

Clairborne Walton Puckett, Chap.,,
Horace Hannington, Senior Deacon,
Zelma Gordon Hackett, Junior Deac.,
Robert Dyar Aylesworth, Marshal,
Carlos R. Engle, Steward,
James Peter Hansen, Steward,
August F. Oestrich, Tyler.

-32

Aerick, John
Aylsworth, Robert Dyre
Barr, William Andrew
Baum, John George
Bieber, Henry Adam
Bloodgood, Freeman Henry
Bowen, Earl
Brown, Wilmot George
Calkins, Edward ¥ason
Calkins, Lyman Oral
Campbell, Harold Harrison
Campbell, Americus
Campbell, Oscar Edgar
Cory, Arthur Warren
Davies, Albert Georg!)
Eager, Charles Henry, P. M.
Engle, Carlos R.
Folkins, Robert Louis
Freeman, James Albert
Friend, Frank Sherman
Galbraith, Henry Clover
Gaston, Martin Braswell '
Hackett, Zelma Gordon
Hackett, William Andrew
Hannington, Horace
Hansen, James Peter
Hardin, Louis Brownlow
Henkle, George Wash.

Hudson, William Sullivan
Hall, Harry Louis
Joice, Peter Austin
Kew, James Herbert, P. M.
Kressly, Paul Elmer
Leatherman, Eugene
McEwen, Edward Wilson
Meyers, J osep~ Alter
Monroe, Albert Folsom
Moseley, Harvey Dewaine
Mosher, Marino Benj.
Myers, Ellsworth Elmer
Oestrich, August F.
Parent, Frank Dyal
Puckett, Clairborne W.
Robbins, Archie Harrison
Shipper, William Albert
Shonard, Roscoe Edwin
Seran, Joseph Leroy
Spaulding, Edgar· Warren
Thompson, Flavius Josephus
Weaver, Cyrus Edquist
Weltin, John Edward
Westgate, George Luther
Wight, Alber~ Obardo, P. M.
Wright, George Elmer, P. M.
Yeager, Franz
·
Zillgitt, Henry Herbert

-56

752

ROSTER

Curtis, Charles Courtney

ROSTER

WITHDRAWN:
Hunt, Hugh Wilfred

753

YORK LODGE, No. 423.
Watts, Los Angeles County.

DIED:
Ludington, Henry Clay

Stated Meeting11, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

EAGLE

ROCK

LODGE,

No.

Joseph Lewis, .'4,lastrr,
George Sylvester Madden, Chaplain,
Downey, Cal.
Burgoyne Ellsworth Wolfe, S . Deac.,
Lester John Vanderbeck, S. Ward., George Cleveland Micheal, J. Deac.,
J ames Edwin Rose, lu11. Ward.,
Edgar Smith Kent, Marshal,
Charles Robert Church, Treasurer, Charles Braswell, Steward,
Elon Nelson Lee, Jr., S ecretary,
Frank Gill, Steward,·
Willowbrook, Cal.
John Sabastian Lange, Tyler.

422.

Eagle Rock, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meeting11, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Wilbur :Miller, Master,
Frederick Jacob Moll, Sr., Chaplain,
208 Garland Bldg., Los Angeles. Aaron Edward Kilpatrick, Sen. Dcac.,
John Hartley Taylor, S en. Ward., Joseph Elwood Stanton, Jun. D cac.,
Homer Bailey, Junior Warden,
Edmund M. Perkins, Marshal,
William Henry Chambc;rs, Treasur(r, John William Broxholm, Steward,
George Walter Lyons, S ecretary,
Harry Sumner Bourne, Steward,
516 California Bldg., Los Angeles. Alonzo Daffin Hitc'.:cock, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Reginald Pearce
Bailey, Homer
Biles, Fred Eugene
Bourne, Harry Sumner
Broxholme, John Wm.
Bruce, Wallace Erwin
Chambers, William Henry
Chambers, Willie Lee
Cowan, William Keen
Diddoek, George
Ducker, Peter Henry
Edwards, Godfrey, P. M.
Ferdon, James Monroe
Goss, John Herman
Haskin, William Living11tone
Hatch, Leander 0 .
Hitchcock, Alonzo Daffin
Hogue, Alfred Wright

Johnson, Frank Wm.
Kilpatrick, Aaron Edward
Law, Robert Perry
Lyons, George Walter
Martsolf, Benj. Beshoare
McConnell, Henry Elmer, P. M
McDermott, Allan Ma clean
Miller, Wilbur
Moll, Frederick Jacob, Sr.
Rettig, Louis Eborhardt
Salzgeber, Louis
Schneider, Frederick William, P. M.
Stanton, Joseph Elwood
Taylor, John Hartley
Weir, William Warren
Williams, Frederick Warren
Winters, Harry Lewis

MEMBERS:
Ables, Albert Austin
Lange, John Sebastian
Belieu, Virgin Ray
Lee, Elon Nelson, Jr.
Backman, Leonard Leon
Lewis, Edward
Braswell, Charles
Lewis, Joseph
Bryson, George Washington, P. M. Madden, Geo. Sylvester
Cameron, Charles Campbell
McDeall, Jay
Church, Charles Robert, P. M.
MeWilliams, Alexander
Coates, William Woodard
Morrison, George
Dodd, Charles Henry
Neal, Thomas Jefferson
Duncan, Robert Crawford
Otto,'John
Gill, Frank
Robinson, Lauren Dwight
Gilbert, Charles Dial
Rose, James Edwin
Hallett, George
Sebave, Joseph
Henry, Albert Perry, P. M.
Smades, Hiram Norton
Horowitz, Harry
Smith, Joseph Cotton
Kaestner, Robert Charles
Vanderbeek, Lester John
Kellogg, William Moses
Wood, Clement Franklin
Kerslake, Harry
Wolfe, Burgoyne E llswor t h
Kent, E agon Smith

-35

48

-37

ROSTER

754

ROSTER

EXETER LODGE, No. 424.

HOLTVILLE LODGE, No. 425.

Exeter, Tulare County.

Holtville, Imperial County.

Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

OFFICERS:

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Askin, Elbert Leroy
Ballard, Walter Philip
Barley, Elwood Erastus
Bowman, Thomas Hitt
Brown, Marcellus
Brown, Rennie Colmer
Buckman, Clem T., Jr.
Burnett, Charles Louis
Campbell, Arthur Alan
Card, Samuel William
Close, Nathaniel Mills Perry
Crane, Austin Lincoln
Crane, Charles Kinball
Crosett, James Haven
Daniels, Harry Donaghe
Davidson, Warren I.
English, Marion Columbus
French, William Edmond
Gash, Charles Franklin
Hayes, Len Eugene
Hills, Arthur Augustus
Hopcroft, Charles
Ickes, Daniel W.
Jones, John Edward

755

Killian, Ernest Waldo
Kirkman, Grant
Knight, Uly Grant
Little, Wesley Cameron
Miles, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Mixter, Francis Wilber, P. M.
Moore, Jonathan Larkin Forwood
Moss, Marvin Wharton
Neil, Albert Augustus
Niel, Harry Nash
Newman, Thomas Clinton
Ostrander, Thara Cecil
Owen, Richard Hugh
Patten, Clarence Otto
Preston, Clarence William
Quinn, Andrew William
Rowley, William Orion
Sellars, Alva Boyd
Smith, Sidney John
Vincent, Frank Dewitt
Waddell, George Edwin
Waterman, William Fred
Woolsey, Herbert Alfred

Philip W . Brooks, Master,
Charles Dwight Goff, Sen. D~acon,
Holtville, Cal.
Wm. Ambrose Thompson J. Deacon
1
James W. Griffin, Senior i-Varden, Francis Marrian Vogt, Marshal
Leo Roy Manning, Junior Warden, Vahan H . Azdeherian, Stewa:d,
Roger Glenn Webster, Treasurer,
Max DeWitt Rookledge Steward
Warren Currier, Secretary,
Purdy Hart, · Tyler.
'
'
Holtville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Azhderian, Vahan H.
Baker, John B.
Blanchard, Marvin C.
Boyd, Edwin E.
Brooks, Phillip W.
Burton, Clarence Walter
Ervin, Otwin R.
Furness, William H.
Goff, Charles D.
Griffin, James W.
Hart, Purdy
Hartshorn, Charles D., P. M.
Hawk, Walter L.
Hobson, Roy M.
Ingram, Alexander G.
Jones, Howard T., P. M.
Kavanaugh, John

-47

Leonard, Arthur J.
Manning, Leo Roy
McDonald, Arch R.
Mccary, Jasper D.
Osbun, Albert E.
Richards, W. B.
Rookledge, Max D.
Thompson, Theodore J.
Votaw, Joseph W.
Vogt, Frank M.
Waldrip, James L.
Webster, Roger G.
Wells, George F.
White, Joseph C.
Williams, David H.
Wimp, John Roy
Wulff, Leo F .

WITHDRAWN:
Tillotson, Clarence A.

Wing, F. S.

-34

ROSTER

ROSTER

MIDWAY LODGE, No. 426.

CHINO VALLEY LODGE, No. 427.

756

757

Taft, Kem County.

Ohino, .San B~mardino County.

Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month. ·

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Elmo Charles Daniels, Master,
Chino, Cal.
Hiram G. Shafer, Sen. Ward.,
Edgar F. Church, Jun. Warden,
Fred Walters, Treasurer,
Jonathan Barber Stark, Secretary,
Chino, Cal.

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

Barneburg, Homer Lee
Bender, Herbert Jacob
Blakley, Fred Burnell
Brookover, William
Bryson, John Lawson
Calhoun, James Alvine
Carlton, Allen James
Chauvin, Alphonse
Clark, Sid Balows
Cole, Edwin Satter
Crippen, Stephen Gilbert
Davis, Arthur H., P. M.
Dooley, Joseph Peter
Dudney, Geo. Edward
Farrel, Edward Davis
Grant, James Columbus
Guiberson, Lorrane Parr
Guthause, Chris John
Hamilton, James Henry·
Hanning, George Samuel
Howard, Will Livingston
Iman, Harry
Joys, Carl Christian
Kevan, Henry Dawson
Key, John Walter
Kidd, Archie M.
Lucas, Arthur Vivian
Graves, James E.

MEMBERS:
Maddern, Herrold Hunt
Msrks, Henry Arthur
Mays, James Par
Miller, Lee Cue
Mims, Sidney Ward
Painter, Fred Lawrence
Persons, Joel Ellis
Pinkerton, Samuel
Ramey, Thomas Clifford
Ranous, Roy Edward
Ratliff, Wm. Lagrone
Riley, Paul Wiram
Roeder, Charles Fred
Seybolt, Fred Louis
Seybolt, George Ernest
Sherwood, Fred Clark
Snow, Albert Jay
Stephens, Louis Ely
Tucker, ·Manford Franklin
Waldren, Thomas Aloyous
Whaley, John Henry, P. M.
White, Samuel Addison
Williams, Edward Arnold
Williamson, Lloyd
Wilson, James Hilton
Zellers, Howard

William B. McQueen, Chaplain,
Gus Becton Caldwell, Sen. Deac.,
Harry Barber Stark, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Alson White, Marshal,
William Sutherland Ross, Steward,
Lysle Clark Howard, Steward,
James William Nash, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Acord, John Thomas
Brokaw, J~mes J.
Brown, Richard Patterson
Caldwell, Gus Becton
Church, Edgar F.
Culver, Harry Lee
Coyle, William Arthur
Daniels, Elmo Charles .
Dunn, John V.
Easley, Johnson Byrd
Franks, Geo. William
Hartig, Charleg Simon
Henderson, William
Howard, Lysle Clark
Mayer, Gerhard
McCelleher, Howard Scott
Minckwitz; Ernest Ulrich

Nash, James William
Newman, Orlando Jay
Price, Edgar Heaton
Pugh, John '
Reed, Elgar
Reutgen, John Conrad
Rhodes, Edwin, P. M.
Ross, William Sutherland
Shafer, Hiram G.
Stark, Harry Barber
Stark, Jonathan Barber
Vaughan, Raymond Legrand
Vreedenburg, Levi
Walters, Fred
White, Frederick Alson
Woods, Hen1y David
Wygant, Eugene Durfee

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
-53

Luther, Clarenee Howard

WITHDRAWN:
*Smith, James Hamilton

•D£grees conferred during the year.

·,

·1

-34

758

ROSTER

ROSTER

SAN DIMAS LODGE, No. 428.
San Dimas, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Adolph Hansen, Master,
William Elsworth Spicer, Chaplain,
· San Dimas, Cal.
Walter Barton Taugeman, S. Deac.,
George Radford Weller, Sen. Ward., Alfred Ernest Montgomery, J. Deac.,
Samuel John McDonald, Jun. Ward., David Clinton Teague, Marshal,
William Arthur Johnstone, Treas., John Gustav Goder, Steward,
George Cyril Platt, Secretary,
Clinton Corwin, Steward,
San Dimas, Cal.
Lamar Burgess, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, Michael
Koch, Louis August
Ames, Wiltcie
Laudon, William Emerson
Amos, William McDougal
McDonald, Samuel John
Billemier, John Samuel
McKinnon, Isaac August
Bonter, Norman
Montgomery, Alfred Ernest
Bowden, Jeremiah Cravens
Neipp, Emil Edward
Brown, Archibald Robert
Platt, George Cyril
Burgess, Lamar
Richeson, John Matthew
Compton, Clarence Lawrence
Roach, Sterling Price
Corwin, Clinton
Roberts, John . Peter
Enfield, Oscar Davenport
Schemerhorn, Arthur
Fairbanks, Charles Devens, P. M.
Smith, Clinton Carlisle
Foreman, Harry Loyd
Soder, John Gustaf
Geiser, Raymond Arthur
Spicer, William Ellsworth
Gilman, Herbert Spencer
Steele, William
Godfrey, George
Sutton, Walter Langley
Goodwin, Charles Boone
Taugeman, Walter Barton
Hansen, John Adolph
Teague, David Clinton
Harris, John Robert
Teague, Russell Wm.
Hart, Elmer Woodman
Tillman, Oliver Scott
Harwood, Frank Haswell
Weller, George Radford
Hope, Orrie Wilson
Wheeler, Edward Myron
Houston, Orville Burdette
White, Minor Hudson
Howard, Horace Emory
Wilson, James William
Humphrey, Fred Weed
Wright, Wm. Norman
Johnstone, Donald Weldon
Wyman, Francis George, P . M.
Johnstone, William Arthur

*Campbell, Edward Logan

759

WITHDRAWN:
Norton, Pierce Harvey

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Rouser, John Clyde
•Degrees conferred during the year.

PITTSBURG LODGE No. 429.
Pittsburg, Contra Costa. County.

Stated Meetings last Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Starr Gregory, Master,
Clarence Calvin Peppin, Chaplain,
Pittsburg, Cal.
Otto Anthony Kresse, Senior Deac.,
John Lowes, Senior Warden,
Weaver McPherson Bailey, J. Deac.,
Harry W. Reinhart, Junior Warden, Clarence Cleveland Christian, Mar.,
Bernard Peter Lanteri, Treasurer, John Enoch Bankson, Steward,
Archie Valentine McFaul, Secretary, Albert Hendrick Jongeneel, Steward,
Pittsburg, Cal.
John Edward Rough, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Lanteri, Bernard Peter
Lowes, John
Loveridge, Otis Oliver
Minaker, George Alexander
Minaker, Fred A.
McFaul, Archie Valentine, P. M.
Oliver, George Thomas
Peppin, Clarence Calvin
Rough, John Edward
Reinhart, Harry W.
Rouner, Floyd Harold
Stuart, Alexander
Schmith, Rudolph Bay
Ward, Ernest Herman, P. M.
Weigel, Joel
-31

Bailey, Thomas Jefferson
Bailey, Weaver McPherson
Buchanan, William James
Bankson, John Enoch
Croxon, Warren George Hubbard
Dunnigan, Marcus Wesley
Gregory, Frank Starr
Hornsby, James Shirley
Hansen, Rasmus E.
Israel, David
Johnson, John Adolph
J ongeneel, Albert Hendricks
Jongeneel, William
Kent, Nelson Gilman
Kresse, Otto Anthony
Keithley, Leslie Cornelius

760

ROSTER

ROSTER

McCLOUD LODGE, No. 430.

ALPHA LODGE, No. 431.

Mccloud, Siskiyou County.

Richmond, contra Costa County

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Frederick Byron Nichols, Master,
Robert ·T homas Legge, Chaplain,
McC!oud, Cal.
John Kennedy, Senior Deacon,
Benjamin Elbert Purcell, Sm. Ward., Elliott Maynard Smith, Jun. Deac.,
Horace Robert Williams, Jun. Ward., Ch~rles George Gage, Marshal,
Charles Edwin Hancock, Treasurer, George Elliott Parsons, Steward,
John Anderton Thomas, Secretary, Archie bean Chenowith, Steward,
McC!oud, Cal.
Alexander Holmes, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
, Chenowith, Archie Dean
Clark, Frank Winchester
Curless, Joseph Hamilton
Daveney, Colton Barton
Daveney, Chas. Ed. Yllrnon
Estell, Jesse McMahon
Gage, Charles George
Hall, Elll1er Ernest
Hancock, Charles Edwin
Holmes, Alex.
Johnson, David Alexander
Kaiser, Anselem Charles
Kennedy, John
Kuck, ]"erdinand Henry
Legge, Robert Thomas
Morrow, John James
Nichols, Frederick Byron

Osmer, Reuben
Parsons, George Elliott
~urcell, Benjamin Albert
Purchase, George Pople
Pollman, Henry William
Pool, Zera Beebe
Runckel, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, Elliott Maynard
Spencer, Frederick Furman
Sutherland, David Lawrence
Thomas, John Anderton
Yon Gunten, Samuel Alfred
Wellge, Henry Max Paul
Wright, Thomas Benton
Wilder, James Chase, P. M.
Williams, Horace Albert

-33

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS·
Knott, Zeb.
Little, Leonard
Long, James Nichlas
Maier, Walter Alexander
Marston, Ivory Randolph
Mayfield, George William
Mayfield, Frank Adren
Maxfield, James E dw.
Marshall, Ianthus Emlin
McCallum, Peter
McDee, James Thomas
McGrew, Durmond Grant
McHugh, Evall Huber
Michaels, Max
Mills, Samuel
Mino, Emil
Mitchell, David Leroy
Moore, Thomas H .
Myatt, Robert
Oelschlaeger, Michael, Jr.
Ogborn, Joseph Benton
Parker, Clarence Frederick
Parker, Robert Lee
Pascoe, Edwin
Petillon, Harry Edward
Petillon, Ralph Hitchcock
Petillon, William Frederick
Poage, Albert Hamilton
Prentice, William Judson
Popp, Martin Conrad
Rathbun, Ernest Adelbert
Rockwood, Herbert ~·
Rowland, Ira Clayton
Schumacher, August

Bailey, Robert Samuel
Ballenger, William Lester
Booth, William Chamberlain
Breese, John Elmer
Brothers, Joseph Matthew
Burley, Charles Bernerd
Bunch, Wiley Hill
Byron, Robert Washington
Calfee, Ross Lewis
Carter, Cyrus Joseph
Cavin, William Hayes
. Chandley, John S.
Clark, James Garfield
Craig, Fred Thompson
Demond, John Avery
Fabler, William Frederick
Gardner, Franklin Joseph
Gerlach, John George
Gibson, Charles Sherman
Glavinovich, Luke Joseph
Gregory, John Hamilton
Griffina, Benjamin Hall
Hadley, Walter Hugh
Hall, Albert Le Roy
Harlow, Edward Howe, P . M. ·
Homer, Clare Duaine
Hopping, Clyde Everett
Howard, Arthur
Iversen, Josias
Jennings, Elijah
Jessen, Jacob Henry
Johnston, Benjamin George
Kinney, Daniel Bates
Kurtz, Samuel B.

71U

ROSTER

762
Shepherd, Charles J.
Slattery, Richard Edmons
Smith, Ernest Nathaniel
Stiver, Hershey Annin, P. M.
Stults, Frank Peter
Surles, Charles Edward
Stokes, Stanley
Swanson, Albert Theodore

Thayer, Thomas, P. M.
Tucker, Bert X.
Trull, Walter Butler
Vestal, Hall
Weiner, Rueben Louis
Winkler, August Charley
Whittle, John Franklin
Younce, Larkin Jacob

ROSTER

-84

ROSEVILLE LODGE, No. 432.

Priest, Marion Warren
Ross, George Benton
Schmitt, John Jacob
Scott, James, P. M.
Shearer, Jesse Herbert
Stine, Jeremiah Edward
Stone, Henry Howard
Strong, John
Van Maren, Philip

763

Vaughn, Jesse Howell
Watson, Robert Franklin
Waters, Edward
Wells, Richard Herbert
Wolf, Albert George
Wolf, Fred
Wood, Harry
Woodbridge, Bradford

-55
DIED:
York, Herbert Addison

Roseville, Placer County.
Stated Meetings first Monday of each month.
OFFICERS:

Clarence Edwin Peck, Master,
Jeremiah Edward Stine, Sen. Deac.,
Roseville, Cal.
Fr:mk Richard Chilton, Jun. Deacon,
Kenneth Gordon Fister, Sen. Ward., George Ellsworth Coyan, Marshal,
Albert Perry Clark, Junior Warden,"Robe.rt Franklin Watson, Steward,
Walter Gates Osborn, Treasurer,
Jesse Howell Vaughn, Steward,
Thomas H. Boswell, Secretary,
William Fredericks, Tyler.
Roseville, Cal.
MEMBERS.·
Alexander, Edwin Leander
Barrett, Lewis
Booth, Mylo Albert
Broyer, Alexander Henry
Chilton, Frank Richard
Clark, Albert Perry
Connelly, Chester Irwin
Conway, Winn Patrick
Cox, David Lloyd
Cox, Charles Warner
Dewey, Horace Parker
Dekay, Guy Patten
Fox, Carl Owen
Fredericks, William
Gessner, Henry William
Gregory, Charles Nathan
Hammill, John Henry
Hammill, Philip Edward
Hawkins, Archie

Hill, John Albert
Johnson, Daniel Woodman
Keene, William
Ketcham, Lucius Samuel
Lindsay, William
Lister, Kenneth Gordon
Loranger, Montague Joseph
Lyons, Clarence Frothingham
Macfarlane, Ian Angus
Macpherson, George Armstrong
Madison, Frank
Marr, Arthur
Masters, William Henry
McNary, William Harold
Mugford, John Clifton
Murray, William Herman
Oden, Thomas Knox
Osborne, Walter Gates
Peck, Clarence Edwin

HAMMONTON LODGE, No. 433.
HAMMONTON, YUBA COUNTY.
Stated Meetings, fourth Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James Helm McGill, Master,
Harry Alfred Beeves, Chaplain,
Hammonton, Cal.
John Elmore Jorgensen, Sen. Deac.,
David Chalmers McDonald, Sen. W., Augustus L . Welden, Jun. Deacon,
Alfred Rowell Dole, Junior Warden, Beverly Augustus Bess, Marshal,
Louis Morris Smeder, Treasurer,
Archie W. Hopfield, Steward,
Francis Leslie Sherran, Secretary, Henry Courtland Grover, Steward,
Hammonton, Cal.
Louis Lane Myers, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Beau, Frederic Eastman
Blake, Ernest Stanley
Bruce, Hobert Edwin
Dole, Alfred Rowell
Downing, Walter George
Goss, William Henry
Gross, Lee Worthington
Grover, Henry Courtland
Hoffman, Jacob Ziba
Hopfield, Archie William
Jorgensen, John Elmore
McCann, George Alfred
McGill, James Helm, P. M.

McDonald, David Chalmers
Myers, Louis Lane
Nicolas, John Henry
Norton, Samuel Mcllvaine
Reeves·, Charles Henry Edmund
Richard, Hiram Harrison
Robinson, George Alexander
Shirran, Francis Leslie
Smeder, Louis Morris
Squires, Jay Easton
Vaucleaf, William Henry
Walk, Harding Lincoln
Welden, Augustus Lawback
-26

ROSTER

ROSTER

MARICOPA LODGE, No. 434.

FAIRMOUNT LODGE, No. 435.

764

765

San Francisco, San Francisco County.

Maricopa, Kern County.

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.

OFFICERS:
OFFICERS:

Herbert Allan Ballah, Master,
Frank Edward Woods, Chaplain,
Maricopa, Cal.
John Edmond Colbert, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Zook Irvine, Senior Warden, William John Schultz, Jun. Deacon,
William Henry Coons, Jun. Warden, William Theodore Taylor, Marshal,
Perryman Frederick Page, Treas., Elmer Alexander Walker, Steward,
Harry Wallace Kent, Secretary,
John Alfred Dyson, Steward,
Maricopa, Cal.
Robert Clifton Woodside, Tyler.

James Davison Ralph, Master,
George E. Rolph, Chaplain,
1836 Ellis Street.
Francis A. Tibbitts, Senior Deacon,
John Albert Merrill, Sen. Ward.,
Burt E. Edwards Junior Deacon
Denman Sully 'Wagstaff, Jun. Wara., Charles K. Harp~r, Marshal, - '
Robert D. Macfarland, Treasurer, Edwin C. Little, Strward,
Harry Alexander Macdonald, Sec'ty., William 0. Purdy, Steward,
358 Holbrook Bldg.
Frank G. Watson (of Presidio No.
354), Tyler.
MEMBERS:

MEMBERS:
Ballah, Herbert Allan
Beatty, Charles Wesley
Bode, Henry George
Bovie, Randall Ray
Colbert, John Edmond
Conner, Harvey Earl
Coons, William Henry
Dyson, John Alfred
Freeman, Alanson Walter
Godfrey, William
Irvine, Charles Zook
Kent, Harry Wallace
Littleton, Henry
Luton, Mahlon Franklin

Markham, Samuel Stephen
Page, Perryman Frederick .
'Price, Stephen Howard
Peters, John Ricgard
Roberts, William Herbert
Sharp, Isaac Shipman
Taylor, Harry Nathan
Taylor, William Theodore
Thomas, Robert Walter
Wallace, James
Woodside, Robert Clifton
Wilson, David
Walker, Elmer Alexander
Woods, Frank Edward

-29

Ackland, Charles Augustus
Alt, Alfred
Armitage, Joseph Dorn
Ashworth, Fred Drew
Beidleman, Walter Ellsworth
Biggs, James Alfred
Born, Stephen Andrew
Bowen, Archie
Broaddus, J. A.
Braunagel, August Henry
Carson, Franklin Mathias
Cartwright, Harry Dudley
Clausen, Francis J. F.
Clausen, John Lawrence
Cleveland, Earl Townsend
Cramer, Frank Elbert
Cornahrens, Henry
Crauz, Louis T.
Dannemark, Richard John
Davis, William Lee
Eckels, Guy Clan
Edwards, Burt E.
Evans, Albert S.
Felt, John William
Frederickson, Theodore H.
Gillette, W elsey Alfred
Graham, Frank
Hackmeier, Philip F.

Hackmeier, William Clay
Haigh, Simon C.
Harper, Charles K.
Herold, Sidney Hillis
Harwood, Henry Fellows
Jenkina, John Henry
Jones, John Henry
Jones, Roy G.
Knox, Robert James
Knauft, George
Krull, Francis
Lindholm, Alfred Lars
Little, Edwin C.
Logan, Charles Lloyd
Macdonald, Harry Alexander
Mancke, William S.
McCourt, George Thurman
McFarland, Robert D.
Merrill, John Albert
Murby, Ernest Albert
Neal, James Henry
Nichols, Simon Dexter
Oliphant, Henry H.
Ostrander, Frank M:
Penhorwood, Wilfred W.
Peck, John Ferdinand
Pensotti, Peter
Purdy, William Orville

ROSTER

766

Stutzman, Henry Shaffer
Switzer, s ·a muel Clark
Tallentire, Thomas N.
Tibbitfar, Francis A.
Thomas, Richar d John
Thompson, John W.
Travers, Richard Henry
Waas, Edwin J.
Wagstaff, Dennum Sully
Wobber, William P.
Woods, John Peter
Zapffe, Elmon Bernhardt

Ralph, George E .
Ralph, James Davison, P. M.
Redwood, Edgar Lee ·
Richa;rds, Russell Dodge
Richardson, David A.
Rhoads, George W.
Roseberry, Edgar Lee
Roseberry, Edwin Bruce
Schwab, Charles Joseph
Slack, Charles Allen
Smith, John Valentine
Snibley, Walter Ernest
Stang, Louis George

ROSTER

767

LANCASTER LODGE, No. 437.
L ancast er, L os Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS :

-82

William Oliver, Jr., Master,
Ira Garfield Gorham, Senior D eacon,
Lancaster, Cal.
George Henry Fuller, Junior Deacon,
Curtis Evello Henderson, S. Ward., Harry Preston Libby, Marshal,
James Tevis Arwine, Jun. W arden, Robert Buchanan Cameron, Steward,
Irving Dodge,. Treasurer,
Roscoe Eugene Bugbee, Steward,
Hugh Petrie, Secretary,
Otto Bernhard Von Arx, Tyler.
Lancaster, Cal.
MEMBERS :
Arwine, James Tevis
Bulkley, Olcott Smith
Cameron, Robert Buchanan
Dodge, Irving Edwin
Epperson, John Clifton
Fuller, George Henry
Gorham, Samuel Robinson
Gorham, Ira Garfield

CLAREMONT LODGE, No. 436.
Claremont, Los Angeles .c ounty.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each mon th.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

Bacon, Fred Albert
Bauthren, John Millard
Bell, William Dixon Tucker
Cree, Ira John
Campbell, Edward Logan
Dreher, Edward Logan, P. M.
Geer, Francis .Herman
Goodelap, Louis Pierre
Greswold, George Carter
Harwood, Harrison Bruce
Hawley, E-dward Peffers
Houghton, Paul
Ingham, Clarence Ward
Johnson, James Dixon
Jencks, George
Lyman, James Alexander
Lemon, Elisha Henry

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
McLean, Collin A.
Norton, Pierce Harvey
Patton, Herbert
Peek, Hiram Frederick
Richards, Addison Whitaker
Robinson, James Flag
Shoemaker, J ease Ralph
Smith, Alfred
Smith, Lewis Nathanial
Smith, William Lewis
Staples, Robert Martin
Taylor, Bennett L.
Thatcher, Horace Charles
Thomas, Frank Webster
Tomlinson, John Lewis
Wheeler, Frank
Williams, Noah

Germon, Fayette
Henderson, Curt is E vello
Hoskins, Jesse Milton
Libby, Harry Preston
Oliver, William, Jr.
Petrie, Hugh
Searing, Jesse Albert
Von Arx, Otto Bernhard

-16

GERMANIA LODGE, No. 438.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, sueonu Monday in each month.
OFFICERS :
Franz W allenstein, Master,
Albert Ruoff, Chaplain,
1014 West 9th St.
John Adolph Guenther, S en. Deacon,
Fred Walter, Jr., S enior ·warden,
Hermann R. W. Kriege, Jun. D eacon,
Ferdinand Henry Sickel, J. Ward., Rudolph Wirtz, M arshal,
Emil Ernst Staben, Treasurer,
Henry F . Gutsch, Steward,
Gottlob Adolph Thurner, Sec'ty.,
Peter Wilhelm Ehlers, Steward,
1111 San Pedro St.
Hermann Harms, · Tyler.

MEMBERS:

-34

Bayha, George Gottlob
Bay ha, Maximillian
Biescar, Henry

Daniels, Albert Jacob
Ehlers, Feter Wilhelm
Gehrkens, Christian Magnus

768

ROSTER

ROSTER

Grupe, Henry Charles
Guenther, John Adolph
Gutsch, Henry F.
Barmes, Hermann
Kaestner, Hermann Charles
Karstens, George Edward
Kiesling, Rudolph Gustave
Kriege, Hermann Rudolf Wilhelm
Kroggel, William J.
Lesser, Emil
Luckol, Louis

Prager, Lissor L.
Riechmann, Ernest Wilhelm
Ruoff, Albert
Sickel, Ferdinand Henry
Staben, Emil Ernst
Steinemann, Jacob
Struve, Heinrich Wilhelm
Thurner, Gottlob Adolph
Wallenstein, Franz
Walter, Fred, Jr.
Wirtz, Rudolph

769

STANDARD LODGE, U. D . .
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings :first Monday in each month.
Dispensation issued October 3, 1913.
OFFICERS:

-28

George Henry Wellington, Master, George Nollman, Chaplain,
938 Buena Vista Ave., Alameda. Edwin Lee Heitman, S enior Deacon,
Leon LeRoy Gummow, Sen. Ward., Robert Heide, Junior Deacon,
Edward Morgan Jones, Jun. Ward., Lewis Phelps Way, Steward,
August H. Rose, Treasurer,
William Flack Wood Steward
Howard Sterling Engle, Secretary, C. M. Kelley, Tyler.'
'
1724 Prince St., Berkeley.
MEMBERS:

TYRIAN LODGE, No. 439.
· Manteca, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS :
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS·
Au!tin, James Henry, P. M.
Boberg, John Alfred
Branson, William Proctor, P. M.
Cross, Samuel Nelson
Craig, Thomas Franklin
Dryden, Guy Frank
Grant, George Henry, P. M.

Goodale, Robert Hilliard
Keppel, Garrett
Lowe, Nilus Orfila
McMurray, Theodore Zelim
McCandless, Anderson LeMoyne
Palm, Carl Frederick
-13

Ambuhl, Andrew
Brandtjen, Henry
Brandtjen, John Charles
Culby, Charles H;.
Day, Everett H.
Euler, John
Emigh, Milton
Emigh, William Jarvis
Engle, Howard Sterling
Erics'on, Joab Edward
Esterbrook, Garry Gordon
Forrest, William Irwin
Foster, Clyde La Monte
Gilman, Charles Edward
Gummow, Leon LeRoy
Hanell, William Fred
Heide, Robert
Heitman, Edwin Lee
Ingram, Robert
Jones, Edward Morgan
Judell, Oscar

Kelley, C. M.
Kosht, James Philip
Littlefield, Burge Pluu:mer
Lodge, Roy William
Mahrmann, Henry Bertram
Miller, John W.
Maplesden, Riehard Daniel
N ollroan, George
Pedgrift, Jam es Henry
Reboli, Joseph Barthalamew ·
Riley, Martin Painter
Rose, August H.
Schultheis, Charles Frederick
Sandles, M. C.
Staubes, Cha.rles
Stiles, Clarence Luther
Wallman, B. A.
Way, Lewis Phelps
Wellington, George Henry
Wood, William Flack
Zerbe, Samuel J.

-42

770

ROSTER

ROSTER

CORONADO LODGE, U. D.

BLACKMER LODGE, U. D.

Coronado, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings first Friday in each month.
Dispensation issued October 22, 1913.

San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings second Monday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
Dispensation issued October 27, 1913.

771

OFFICERS:
OFFICERS:

Huber A. Collins, Master,
Max ]. Toews, Senior Deacon,
Coronado, Cal.
Clark B. Rude, Junior Deacon,
Arthur A. Mathewson, S . Warden, William S. Mullen, Steward,
Alfred W. Bush, Junior Warden, William D. Rogers, Steward,
Christopher W. Hartsough, Treas., Philip W . Dill, Tyler.
Robert S. Robbins, Sec:retary,
Coronado, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Imhoff, William C.
Best, William C.
Jewell, Clarence C.
Brittian, William H.
'Johnston, Gordon W.
Brose, Paul A.
Jollymore, Mark
Brown, Neil E.
Keeney, Thomas J~
Bush, Alfred W .
Law;son, Andrew N.
Campbell, Andrew A.
LeRoy, John L.
Chadwick, William L.
Mathewson, Arthur A.
Clements, Austin H.
Millen, William S.
Collins, Huber A.
Nichols, James N. ·
Davidson, David G.
Rice,
Walter J.
Davidson, Robert
Robbins, Robert S.
Darroch, William N.
Rodgers, William D.
Davis, Frank E.
Rude, Clark B.
Deach, Ivan
Schreiber, Benjamin
Dill, Philip W.
Seymour, Abraham C.
Fitch, Herbert R.
Sherwood, Robert
Flint, Harry
Taylor, Harold A.
Foultz, Ward L.
Tippett, Samuel D.
Furnald, Frederick H. C.
Toews, Max J.
Hakes, Herbert B.
Yates, John C.
Hale, Perley B.
Yenawine, George L.
Hartsough, Christopher W.
Holmes, George

Alfred Kingsley Glover, Chaplain,
Charles Gallupe Briggs, Master,
Ernest Lester McKie, Sen. Deacon,
434 Spreckels Bldg.
Frank Jay Cody, Senior Warden, Harlow Matthews Higl!!y, J. Deac.,
Herbert Hudson Heath, J. Warden, Ernest Linwood Seavey, Mars/Jal,
Sam Hiram Mitchell, Treasurer,
Warren Edgar Libby, Sen. Steward,
Frederick Wm. Muller, Jun. Steward,
Randall A. Kinney, Secretary,
Arthur B. Haxton, Tyler.
826 Third St.
(Silver Gate No. 296.)

--45

Barnes, Henry Davis
Blodgett, Clark Asaph
Briggs, Charles Gallupe
Burgan, Fred Leslie
Case, Erastus Wolph
Casey, William Robert
Cody, Frank Jay
Conant, Albert Francis
Dewitz, Theodore Henry
Driver, Edwin Starn
Felton, Wilson Kittrell
Geisler, Louis August
Glover, Alfred Kingsley
Hall, Matthew
Harris, Ray Mitchell
Heath, Herbert Hudson
Heimerdinger, Edward John
Higley, Harlow Matthews
Jones, Leva Goslee
Kaltschmidt, George Max
Kerr, John Nicewaunger
Kinney, Randall A.

MEMBERS:
Libby, Warren Edgar
Lomax, George Chester
Macdonald, J obn Findley
Marsh, Curtis C.
Marx, Sidney Strauss
McFerrin, Ross Clifton
McKie, Ernest Lester
Melrose, Charles Francis
Mitchell, San H iram
Muller, Frederick William
Pleger, John J.
Sanford, Frank Laroo
Seavey, Ernest Linwood
Simpson, John
Snow, Frederick Hibbard
Snow, Louis Frederick
Sylvester, Louis Murray
Torstenson, Nels Otto
Westland, John Albert
Widener, Zachary Taylor
White, Edgar Austin
Zink, James Wilson

-44

ROSTER

772

ROS'IER

773

SCHOFIELD LODGE, U. D.
Schofield Barracks, Lellihua, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated Meetings third Saturday in each month.

APPENDIX.

Dispensation issued December 8th, 1913.
OFFICERS:

Melvin L. Crisp, Senior Deacon,
William C. Gr.indley, Master,
John E. McBrian, Senior Warden, Rufus E. Chappell, Junior Det1co11,
Edward A. Fisher, Junior Warden, Charles R. Bales, Marshal,
John 0. Roth, Steward,
Michael A. Quinto, Treasurer,
St. Clair H. Lonsdale, Steward,
Charlie A. Mares, Secretary,
David L. Shock, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Amidon, Carl F.
Bales, Charles R.
Booker, William C.
Burgess, Loyd S.
Chappell, Rufus E.
Crisp, Melvin L.
Epps, Edward W.
Fisher, Edward A.
Grindley, William C.

Lonsdale, St. Clair H.
Mares, Charlie A.
McBrian, John E.
Quinto, Michael A.
Roth, John 0.
Shock, David L.
Shugert, Ja.y C.
Wade, Chauncey
Walter, Elm~r J.

VOLCANO LODGE, No. 56.
Albert Lehn, Master,
Edmond R. Santirfo, Chaplain,
Volcano, Cal.
James Gianinni, Senior Deacon,
Arthur W. McLaughlin, Sen. Ward., Charles Wallenburg, Junior Deacon,
Clarence Bradshaw, Junior Warden, Louis Horton Cook, Marshal,
O<tis L. Webster, Treasurer,
Griffith Denend, Steward,
John B. Grillo, Secretary,
William H. Cook, Steward,
Volcano, Cal.
Domenico Gianini, Tyler.

RISING STAR LODGE, No. 83.
-18

Matthew Chalder Langstaff, Master, Andrew Morehead, Chaplaiti,
Forest Hill, Cal.
Israel Martin Korschen, Sen. Deac.,
Kenneth Chisholm, Senior Warden, Laurence Bradford Hathway, Jr. D.,
Charles Robert Burry, Junior Ward., Clarence Dennis McKinley, Marshal,
Henry Janes, Treasurer,
Jacob Lock Welker, Steward,
Jean Louis Thomas, Secretary,
Gilbert Florence Ray, Steward,
Forest Hill, Cal.
William Smith, Tyler.

ROSE'S BAR LODGE,

NO. 89.

Joseph Widner, Master,
Clayton Wilburn Manasco, Chaplain,
Richard Ray Beatty, Sen. Wa,.den, William Garfield Robson, S. Deaco11,
Thecdore Schwartz, Junior Warden, Charles Newton Novay, J. Deacon,
Robert Beatty, Treasurer,
William Bjone Palmstrom, Marshal,
Allan Givens Wheaton, Secretary, William Joseph Toland, Steward,
Srnartsville, Cal.
William Warren W·oods, Steward,
John Edward Bach, Tyler.

774

ROSTER

LEXINGTON LODGE, No. 104.
Robert Rankin, Master,
Isaac F. Baker, Chaplain,
El Monte, Cal.
Alfred C. Drake, Senior Deacon,
Orin Adrian Mannon, Sen. Warden, John Irwin, Junior Deacon,
Charles David McLogan, Jun. Ward., George Henry Coffin, Marshal,
James Dwine Cleminson, Treasurer, Thomas Pollard, Steward,
Grover Cleveland, Secretary,
Roy Wilkerson, Steward,
El Monte, Cal.
Robert Irwin, Tyler.

EEL RIVER LODGE, No. 147.
Guy Travis Sears, Master,
William John Norwood, Chaplain,
·Fortuna, Cal.
Ber,t Fred Morgan, Senior Deacon,
George William Lang, Sen. Warden, Charles Fred Evers, Junior Deacon,
Melvin Claude Henry, Jun. Warden,John Melvin Connick, Marshal,
Riginald Hamilton Bowman, Treas., Wellington Homer Stewart, Steward,
Charles A. Eastman, Secretary,
William Daniel Gray, Steward
Fortuna, Cal.
Harry Fox Hansell, Tyler.

ROSTER

775

CLAIBORNE LODGE, NO. 185.
James R. Taylor, Senior Deacon,
Henry Howe, Master,
August Miller, Junior Deacon,
Point Arena, Cal.
Frank W. Reynolds, Sen. Warden, Samuel C. Hunter, Marshal,
Joseph H. Halliday, Steward,
Bonham H. Baker, Jun. Warden,
Chester F. O'Brien, Steward,
John Clark, Treasurer,
Antone Stornetta, Tyler.
Frank L. Emery, Secretary,
Point Arena, Cal.

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
John Sherman Bailey, Master,
Benjamin Duncan Duncan, S. Deac.,
San Luis Obispo, Cal.
Robert Weir Ryder, Junior Deacon,
John Clifton James, Senior Warden, William Richard Spence, Marshal,
Walter Doughty Adriance, J. Ward., Ross Philip McLain, Steward,
George Merritt, Treasurer,
James Smith Arbuckle, Steward,
Francis H. Throop, Secretary,
James Squire, Tyler.
San Luis Obispo, Cal.

DOWNEY LODGE, No. 220.
KEYSTONE LODGE, No. 161.
Chandler Huntington, Master,
Richason Rhodes Schroebel, S. Deac.,
Milton, Cal.
Carl Christian Hansen, Jun. Deacon,
William Samuel Dennis, S. Warden, ....................._.....- ........., Marshal,
James Joshua Lillie, Junior Warden, Walter Lines Denton, Steward,
Marion Lee Hunt, Treasurer,
Floyd A. Klinger, Steward,
Charles Wise Rhodes, Secretary,
Wm. Henry Harrison Rhodes, Tyler.
Milton, Cal.

John Martin Reeves, Master,
Charles Malery Whaley, Chaplain,
Downey, Cal.
Charley Thurman Bruster, S. Deac.,
Clyde Albert Nagle, Senior Warden, Hugh Webster McKelvey, J. Deacon,
Walter Ray Moberly, Jun. Warden, Albert Fulton McDonald, Marshal,
John Wesley Rudd, Treasurer,
John Bartlett, Steward,
Toy Berry Gibson, Secretary,
William Wesley Stokes berry, Stew.,
Downey, Cal.
Algernon Sidney Gray, Tyler.

ROSTER

ROSTER

NORTH BUTTE LODGE, No. 230.

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 237.

George Wesley Blair, Master,·
Thomas Jackson Long, Chaplain,
Gridley, Cal.
David Humphrey Evans, S. Dearo11,
Edward Peter Fagan, Sen. Warden, Albert Franklin Hansen, J. Deacot1,
Granville Avery Schoen, J. Warden, Chris Henry Mayer, Marshal,
Edward Earnest Briggs, Treasurer, Robert Arthur Hill, Steward,
Homer Allen Woodworth, Secretary, Orville Clarence Sweeney, Steward,
Gridley, Cal.
Monroe Louis Hirschfield, Tyler.

Harry Leslie Anderson, Master,
Leon
Waller, Chaplait1,
Israel Martin Burola, Sen. Warden, George W. Moore, Senior Dcawn,
Henry Robert Gewe, lrtn. Warden, Frank James Pratt, Junior Deaeon,
Stephen Campodonico, Treasurer,
Fred Clair Abernethy, Marshal,
William Rosenblum, Secretary,
R. W. Bennett, Steward,
Guadalupe, Cal.
A. B. Ruins, Steward,
James Thompson, Tyler.

776

7i7

o:

COVELO LODGE, No. 231.

ALTURAS LODGE, No. 248.

George Milton Biggar, Master,
Harry Solon Lovell, Senior Deacon,
Covelo, Cai.
William Rhodes, Junior Deacon,
Charles Henry Hurt, Sen. U1 arden, Frank Thomson, Marshal,
Brady Lorenzo Tuttle, Jut1. Ward., William Francis Ornbaun Steward,
Edward Gravier, Treasurer,
Albert Brown, Steward, '
Walter Hargrave, Secr.etary,
Amos Dennis, Tyler.
Covelo, Cal.

William Loti: Keene, Master,
Luther Grant McDowell, Chaplain,
Alturas, Cal.
John Randal Ballard, Senior Deacon,
Luke Robinson Yates, S. Warden, Albert Fulmer Spicer, Junior Deacon,
James Ralph Laird, Jun. Warden, William Evans Armstrong, Marshal,
Ernest Chappell Bonner, TreasNrer, James T . Ballard, Steward,
Isaac Lauer, Secretary,
Arthur Henry Cook, Steward,
Alturas, Cal.
Jefferson Fay Harrow, Tyler.

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.

ADIN LODGE, No. 250.

Henry James Clement, Master,
Edward E. Light, Senior Deacon,
Calistoga, Cal.
Gustave Sante Noren, Jun. Deacon,
James William Siemsen, Sen. Ward., Franklin Ashton, Marshal,
David Douglas. Every, Jun. Warden, James Hunter Safley, Steward,
Ephriam Light, Treasurer,
Michael Sixon Boland, Steward,
Charles W. Crouch, Secretary,
William Abbott Colburn, Tyler.
Calistoga, Cal.

Charles Mathias Linsman, Mastel', James Albert Clark, Senior Deacon,
Adin, Cal.
John Dexter Graham, Junior Deacon,
Homer LeRoy Brown, Sen. Ward., Richard Biddel Clark, Marshal,
Clinton Joseph Fulcher, Ju,.. Ward., George Roseberry Walker, Steward,
George Horace Knight, Treasurer, Claud Raymond Brown, Steward,
Edwin S. Pickard, Secretary,
Eisley Wiman Grooves, Tyler.
Adin, Cal.

778

ROSTER

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BODIE LODGE, No. 252.
John Edward Quinville, Mas/er,
Frank E. Quinville, Chaplain,
Borlie, Cal.
William Henry Thompson, S. Deac.,
Andrew Graham Sturgeon, S. War., William Nathan Chatfield, J. Deac.,
John Henry Sturgeon, Jun. Warden, Cecil Bertrand Burkham, Marshal,
James Stuart Cain, Treasurer,
Harvey Hayden Boone, Steward,
William Jordan Crawford, Sec'y,
John J. McKenzie, Steward,
Bodie, Cal.
Frank M. Randolph, Tyler.

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291.
· William McCain Stein, Master;
William Colston Wannell, Chaplain,
Santa Paula, Cal.
Alfred Dorn Clayton, Senior Deacon,
Edward J. Canavan, Senior Warden, John William Richardson, Jun. Deac.,
Eugene Herbert Decker, Jun. Ward., Earl Campbell, Marshal,
Frank Elwell Davis, Treasurer,
Frank Fletcher Harvey, Steward,
Earl Windsor Kitchen, Secretary, Dudley Lewis Davies, Steward,
Santa Paula, Cal.
Stanton Grant Doan, Tyler.

ALPHA LODGE, No. 431.
Thomas Thayer, Master,
Edward Howe Harlow, Chaplain,
349 23rd St., Richmond, Cal.
Ernest Nathaniel Smith, S. Deacon,
Luke Joseph Glavinovich, S. Ward., Franklin Joseph Gardner, J. Deacon,
Richard Edmond Seattery, J. Ward., John Smith Chandler, Marshal,
Wm. Lewis Ballenger, Treaswrer, James Nichols Long, Steward,
Albert Hamilton Poage, Secretary, Henry Johns Hill, Steward,
143 15th St., Richmond, Cal.
Benjamin George Johnston, Tyler.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No. Post Office. • .
County.
Abell •..•.......•.. 146 Ukiah ••••..•.••••••. Mendocino.
Acacia ......•.••... 92 Coloma ....••••••••.. El Dorado.
Adin ...••••.••.... 250 Adin ..••.•.••.•••••• Modoc.
Alamo •.•.•..•••... 122 Walnut Creek ••..••• Contra Costa.
Alameda .. : . ••••••• 167 Centerville ••.••.•••. Alameda.
Alcatraz •.•...•.... 244 Oakland ••.•...•••••• Alameda.
Alhambra •......... 322 Alhambra ...•.••..•• Los Angele11.
Alisa! •... : .•..••••. 321 Pleasanton •....••.•.. Alameda.
Alpha .•..•. ........ 431 Richmond ........•.. Contra Costa.
Alta •.•.•.•..••.••. 333 Bridgeport ••••••••• ~Mono.
Alturas ......•••..• 248 Alturas ......•.••.•.•Modoc.
Amity •••••.•..•... 370 San Francisco ..••••.. San Francisco.
Amador ••••..••.... 65 Jackson ....••...••.. Amador.
Anaheim •.......... 207 Anaheim •..•...••..• Orange.
Anchor •.••........ 273 Compton ....•••..•...Los Angele11.
Antioch ••••......•. 175 Antioch ..••••••..... Contra Cost&.
Apollo .. . .. ·•.•••... 396 Alameda •.•....••••••Alameda.
Arcata ...•..•.....• 106 Arcata •.....•••••••• Humboldt.
Arroyo ••••......•• 274 Arroyo Grande •••• ..•San Luis Obispo.
Arlington . ...•.... .414 Los Angeles ..•.....•. Los Angeles.
Artesia • ; •••••••••• 377 Artesia •...••••••• , •. Lo11 Angeles.
Ashlar •..••.•••.•.. 306 Colton •....•...•.•.•.• Ban Bernardino.
Athens •••••.•••••. 228 Davisville ••••...•••• Yolo.
Azusa •......••• '. .. 305 Azusa •• • ...• •••••.••• Los Angeles.
Bakersfield •. ·•••.... 224 Bakersfield •...••••••.Kern.
Balder •.•••.•• •••.• 393 San Francisco .••••••. San Francisco.
Bay View •.•..••. .401 Oakland •••.• . ..••••• Alameda.
Bear Mountain •••.• 76 Angels Camp ••.••••. Calaveras.
Benicia • . • • • • • . • . . • 5 Benicia ••••.•••.•••..Solano.
Berkeley ..•.•••.... 363 Berkeley •..••••••••. Alameda.
Blackmer .....•... U. D. San Diego .....•..... San Diego.
Bodie •..•••••••.•. 252 Bodie •..••.•..•••••• Mono.
Brawley ..•.••••••• 402 Brawley •..•••••••••. Imperial.
Brentwood ••••••••.• 345 Brentwood •...•.•••• ~.Contra Costa.
Brooklyn •..•••.... 225 East Oakland ••••..•• Alameda.
Buckeye •........ • . 195 Winters ••.•,••..•••.• Yolo.

779

780

ALPHA,Bl~TICAL

LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Olftce.
County.
Buena Park ••••.••. 357 Buena Park •••.••..•. Orange. ·
Burbank •....•••.. .406 Burbank .......•.••• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ••••.•.. 400 Burlingame •••.••.••. San Mateo.
Calexico .........•. 412 Calexjco ......•••..•• Iµiperial.
California • . . . . . • . . 1 San Francisco •••••••. San Francisco.
Cahveras •.••..•.. 78 San Andrea& •..•..••. Calaveras.
Callayomi .•.....•. 282 Middletown .••• , ...•. Lake.
Calistoga ...•.•.••. 233 Calistoga ••.•••••••• ,Napa.
Carpinteria ...... U. D. Carpinteria ........•• Santa Barbara
Carquinez ••..•••... 337 Crockett ••.•.•••••••. Contra Costa.
Charity •••......•. 362 Campbell ••.•.•••.••. Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ....••• 410 Berkeley .•..•••.•.... Alameda.
Chico •.•..•••••.••• 111 Chico •..••••..•••.•. Butte.
Chino Valley •..... 427 Chino •... , .•..•...•. San Bernardino.
Claiborne ••••...• , .185 Point Arena ••.•.•. , .Mendocino.
Claremont ......... 436 Claremont ..••....... Los Angeles.
Clay •.•.•••.••.••• 101 Dutch Flat •••••••.••. Placer.
Clear Lake •.•••... 183 Lower Lake •.•....•. Lake.
Clinton •.•..••..... 119 Igo •• , •.•..•..••..•• Shasta.
Clovis ........•.... 417 Clovis .....•..•...•.. Fresno.
Coalinga •.••.•.•••. 387 Coalinga ••.•••.•..•.. Tulare.
Concord .••• , •..... 117 Sacramento •••.•..••. Sacramento.
Confidence . , ...•••• 203 Castroville ••..•••••• Monterey.
Consuelo .•.•..••.. 325 Escondido ••••..•.•.. San Dirgo.
Colusa ••.•.•..•••. 240 Colusa •.••.•..••••.•• Colusa.
Corinthian • . . • . . • . . 9 Marysville . , .• , ••• , .• Yuba.
Corona •...•.•.•.•. 324 Pasadena •••....•••.. Los Angeles.·
Coronado ......... U. D. Coronado ............ San Diego.
Covelo •..•.•••.•.. 231 Covelo •..•••.•••••••• Mendocino.
Covina .•.......•.. 334 Covina • , ...•.•••..•. Los Angeles.
Crescent ••.••.••.•• •5 Crescent City •.•••••. Del Norte.
Crockett ......•••.• 139 San Francisco •••••.. San Franeieeo.
Curtis •.•....•..•• , 140 Cloverdale .•.•.••.••. Sonoma.
Delano .....••..••. 309 Delano •...•.••••.•.. Kern.
Dinuba .•.•..•..•.. 385 Dinuba .••••.•••••••. Tulare.
Dorie •.•.••••.••.. 216 San Francisco ••••.•.. San Francisco.
Downey ••••••.••.. 220 Downey •..••...•.••. Los Angeles.
Drytown .•.......• 174 Drytown •.•..••••••. Amador.
Dunsmuir ..••..... 297 Dunsmuir ...•.• , .•••. Siskiyou.
Durant •.••••••..•. 268 Berkeley •••••••.••.. Alameda.
Eagle Rock ••....•.• 422 Eagle Rock •...••••.• Los Angeles.
East Belt ..••..••.. 391 Tuolumne •••.••..••• Tuolumne.
East Gate ••••..•.. 290 Los Ana;eles •.••.•••• .Los Angeles.
Eden ••.•....••.•.• 113 San Leanclru ...•.•... Alameda.

GRAND LODGE OF CALl1'"0R ..J!A

Lodge.
No. Post Olftce.
County.
Eel River •..•••...• 147 Fortuna .....•.••.••. Ilumbol<lt.
El Centro ..••..•••.. 384 El Centro ..•..•• , •.•• San Diego.
Elk Grove ..••.••.. 173 Elk Grove ••••••••••• S.aeramento.
Elsinore .••.•••.•.. 289 Elsinore ••.•••••••••• Riverside.
Elysian •..•.•...... 418 Los Angeles .....•..•• Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ..•...••. 318 Biggs ..••..•.•••• , •• Butte.
Enterprise .•.•.•••.• 70 Yuba City ••.••••••.. Sutter.
Eu<.'alyptus ••••••.• 243 Haywards ••••••••••• Alameda.
Eureka . • . . . • • . • . • • 16 Auburn ••.•..•••.••• Placer.
Evening Star •..•.• 186 Etna Mills ••••••.•••• Siskiyou.
Evergreen •••.•.•.• 259 Riverside •.....•...•. Riverside.
Excelsior ...•.•.•.. 166 San Francisco .••••• , .San Francisco.
Exeter ........... .424 Exeter •..••.•••••••• Tulare.
Fairmount ...•.... .435 San Francisco .....•. San Francisco.
Fall brook •..•••... 317 Fallbrook .••••••.••. San Diego.
Ferndale •..••..•.• 193 Ferndale ••.••••••••• Humboldt.
Fidelity •.•..•..•.• 120 San Francisco ••••.... San Francisco.
Fillmore •.....•..•. 379 Fillmore ••..•..•••••• Ventura.
Forbestown ..•••••• 50 Forbestown ..•••••••. Bntte.
Forest • . . . . . • • . . . • . 66 Allegheny ••••••••••• Sierra.
Fort Bragg ...••... 361 Fort Bragg •..•••..... Mendocino.
Fowler ..•.••.••••. 398 Fowler ..••.••••...•. Fresno.
Franklin .••••••••• 143 Courtland •.••.•••••. .Sacramento.
Francis Drake •.••. 376 South San Francisco .•.San Mateo.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose •.• , •••.•.•. Santa Clara.
Fresno .........•.. 247 Fresno •.•••.•••••.••.• Fresno.
Friendship ••••.•••. 210 San Jose ...•..••.••• Santa Clara.
Fruitvale ••.•••.•.. 336 Oakland ...•.....•.• Alameda.
Fullerton •..•..••••• 339 Fullerton •.••••••• , , • Orange.
GaU • • ·• • .•• • •••..• 267 Galt •..•.•.•..••..•• Sacramento.
Gardena ...••••••. 372 Gardena .••••..•....• Los Angeles.
Georgetown • • • • . • • • 25 Georgetown .•.••••••. El Dorado.
George Washington • 62 Chinese Camp .•.•. , •. Tuolumne.
Germania •...•.•. .438 Los Angeles ...•.•.. Los Angeles.
Glendora •.•..•..•. 404 Glendora •.•...•.••.• Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ....••• 30 San Francisco ••••.••. Ban Francisco.
Golden State •.••.. 356 Los Angeles •.•••.. , •. Los Angeles.
Gold Hill ••.•.••••• 32 Lincoln ••••...•••.••• Placer.
Grafton •..•..••••• 141 Grafton , • , •• , .••.••• Yolo.
Granite ••.••.•.••. 222 Rocklin •••••••. , • , •. Placer.
Gravel Range ..•••• 59 Camp~onville •••.•••• Yuba.
Guadalupe •.••.•.•. 237 Gnadalupe •••• , ••.••. Santa Barbara.
Hammonton •..••... 433 Hammonton , •. , ..•.. Yuba.
Hanford •.• , •••••. 279 Hanford ••••••••••••• Kings.

781

782

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST 'OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.
Hartley ••.•••.••.• 199 Lakeport •••••.•.. , , .J.,ake.
Hawaiian • • • • . • • . • • 21 Honolulu ••••.• , •.••• Hawaiian Island•.
Henry Clay .....••• 95 Sutter Creek ••••••••• Amador.
Hermann ••...•.••. 127 San Francisco ••••••.• San Francisco.
Heeperian ••••.•••. 264 Santa Maria ••••••••• Santa Barbara,
Highland Park ...••. :l82 Los Angeles ..•..••••• Los Angeles.
Hill 'e Ferry ..••... 236 Newman .••••...• ; •. ~Stanislaus.
Hiram • • • • . • • . • • . • • 43 El Dorado •••••••.•.• El Dorado.
Hollenbeck •....... 319 Los Angeles ..........Loe Angeles.
Hollywood .••..... 355 Hollywood ••••..••••• Los Angeles.
Holtville ..•.•..... .425 Holtville ••••.••••••• Imperial.
Honolulu •......... 409 Honolulu • ; •......... Hawaii.
Hope ••.•••••.••.•. 234 Beckwith •••••..•.••. Plumas.
Hornitos ••.•......• 98 Hornitos ••.•••.•.•.•• Mariposa.
Howard •.••...•••• 96 Yreka .•••••••••••••. Siskiyou.
Humboldt • . . . . • • • • 79 Eureka .•••••••••••• Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ..• 380 Huntington Beaeh ••.•Orange.
Illinoistown •••.•..• 51 Colfax ...'\ ..•....••• Placer.
Imperial ••••...•••• 390 Imperial •.•••••••• , ••Imperial.
Inglewood .......... 421 Inglewood ••••....•.. Loe Angeles.
Inyo •.•••.....••.. 221 Independence ......•• Inyo.
Ione •...•••••••.•• 80 Ione •..••••••.•••••• Amador.
Jefferson •••••...•• 97 Laporte ••••••••••••. Plumas.
Janesville .......... 232 J aiiesville ••...••.• , . Lassen.
Jewel ...•••••••••. 374 San Francisco .•...... San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy .• .'............ Santa Clara.
Kerman ............ 420 Kerman ......••..... Fresno.
Keystone •.•. , .••.• 161 Milton ...•.....•.•.. Calaveras.
Kilauea •.••••••••• 330 Hilo ................ Hawaiian Islan1l1.
King David 'e •..•.. 209 San Luis Obispo ••••• San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon 'e •... 260 San Francisco ..•••••. San Francisco.
La Fayette •....... 126 Sebastopol ••••....••. Sonoma.
La Mesa ..•....... .407 La Mesa ...•......•.. San Diego.
Lancaster .••...•... 437 Lancaster ........... Los Angeles.
Landmark , ........ 253 Madison ............. Yolo.
Las Palmas •••••••• 366 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Lassen •••••...•.•• 149 Susanville ..•..•..•. Lassen.
Laurel ..•.••••..•. 245 Willows •..•..•.•.••••Glenn.
Lexington ••...•..• 104 El Monte ..•...•.••.. Los Angeles.
Liberty •..•••...••. 299 Santa Clara •••••••••. Santa Clara.
Lindsay •.......... 416 Lindsay ............. Tulare.
Live Oak • • • • • • • .. til Oakland • • .. • • . • • • • • Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi ..........•••.•. San Joaquin.

•

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Lompoc ....•••••.. 262 Lompoc ..............Santa Barbara•.
Long Beach ••••.••. 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angele•.
Los Angele• • • • • . . . • 42 Los Angeles •.......• Los Angele•.
Los Banos ••• , ..•.• 312 Los Banos •••.••.••••• Merced.
Los Gatos •..•..•.. 292 Los Gatos .•..•..•.•. Santa Clara.
Loyalton ...•.•.... 359 Loyalton •....•••..•. Sierra.
Madera ............ 280 Madera ..............Madera.
Madison •.••••••••• 23 Grass Valley ••••...•. Nevada.
Magnolia ...•...... 242 Santa Barbara •.•.••. Santa Barbara.
Maricopa ......... .434 Maricopa ........... Kern.
Marin ......••••••• 191 San Rafael ••.•.•..•. Marin.
Mariposa •..••.••.• 24 Mariposa ....••.•.... Mariposa.
Martinez ..•• ;; ••... 41 Martinez ••.•..••..•. Contra Costa.
Maxwell . : ......•.. 288 Maxwell •.....•••.••. Colusa.
McCloud ..•........ 430 McCloud •....•....... Siskiyou.
.McKinley ....•..••• 347 Richmond ..•..•....• Contra Costa.
Mendocino .••••••.• 179 Mendocino •.••....•• Mendocino.
Meridian .... , •.... 182 Arbuckle ..•. , ..••... Colusa.
Midway ............ 426 Ta£t ......•••.••.•.. Kern.
Mill Valley •.....•. 356 Mill Valley •....•.••• Marin.
Mission •...••..••.• 169 San Francisco ••••.... San Francisco.
Mizpah •....••.•.•. 378 Los Angeles ..••..... Los Ange1es.
Mokelumne Hill •... 298 Mokelumne Hill •...•. Calav!'ras.
Molino •.•••••.•..• 150 Tehama ...••..•..••• Tehama.
Moneta ••........•. 405 Los Angeles ...••.••. Los Angeles.
Monrovia •........ 308 Monrovia •..•..•••••. Los Angeles.
Monterey .....••••• 217 Monterey •..••••••.•. Monterey.
Morning Star .; •••.• 68 Stockton ..••.•••.... San Joaquin.
Mosaic ...•..•...•. 218 Livermore .•••.••.••. Alameda.
Mount Jackson •.•.. 2915 Guerneville • , ••••...• Sonoma.
Mount Moriah •••.. 44 San Francisco ••••.•.. San Francisco.
Mountain Shade . . • 18 Downieville .••••..••. Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View •••• 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Natoma ...•.•..... 64 Folsom •..••...••••.. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Needles .••••••••••. 326 Needles ••••••••••••• San Bernardino.
Nevada ...•••..••• 13 Nevada City •••••..•. Nevada.
Newville ...•..•... 205 Paskenta ............Tehama.
Nicolaus ...••••..• 129 Wheatland .•••..•.••. Yuba.
North Butte •.•••.. 230 Gridley •.•.•••••.•.• Butte.
North East •.••.•.• 266 Fort Bidwell . , ••••.• ,Modoc.
Northern Light •••. 190 Millville •.••.•••••••. Shasta.

783

784

ALPHABETICAL LJST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Otnce.
County.
North Star ••...••• 91 Fort Jones ••••..••••. Siskiyou.
Norwalk .....•...• 315 Norwalk ...•...•.••. J..011 Angele•.
Oakdale •...•...••. 2i5 Oakdale ••.•..•••••.. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ..••..••. 215 Alameda ••••••••••..• Alameda.
Oaklnn<l .•••.....•. 188 Oakland ..••.••.....• Alameda.
Occidental ......••• 22 San Francisco ••••.•.. San Francisco.
Oeean Park •...••. 369 Oceanpark ...........• Los Angeles.
Ocunic ..••• : ..•.. 37l Honolulu ............ Oahu.
Oct>ansi1le .........• 381 Oceanside ........•.• San Diego.
Olive Branch ...••. 269 Tulare ••.•..••••.•.. Tulare.
Olivet •..........•. 304 Corning .•.•..•..•..• Tehama.
Ontario ..••...••.. 301 Ont""., ......••••.•.. San Bernardino.
Ophir ••...•......• 33 Murphy's •...••••.••• Calaveras.
Orange Grove ....•. 293 Orange ...•••••••••.• Orange. ·
Oriental •.••...•••• 144 San Francisco •••••••. San Francisco.
Orland •..•..••.... 265 Orland •••••.•.....•. Glenn.
0rosi ......••..•••• 3S3 Orosi ..••••..••...••. Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville •••••.••••.•• Butte.
Oxnard ...........• 341 Oxnard . •••••••••.••• Ventura.
Pacific •..••.••..•• 136 San Francisco •.•..•.. San Francisco.
Pacific Grove •...••. 331 Pacific Grove .........Mont«?rey.
Pajaro •..•.•...•.• 110 Watsonville ..........Santa Cruz.
Palestine ...••.•••• 351 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Palmyra . . . . . . • . . . 26 Placerville •••..••...• El Dorado.
Palo Alto ..•.••.••• 346 Palo Alto •...•.•.•••. Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes ••...•. 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union • • • • 17 San Francisco ••••.••. San Francisco.
Parnassus •..•..•••• :188 Snn Francisco •.•..... Sam Francisco.
Pasadena ...••..••• 2i2 Pasadena ••...••.. , •• Los Angeles.
Paso Robles •••.•••. 286 Paso Robles ..........Snn Luis Obiapo.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ........... • • ..Placer.
Pentalpha •.••..••• 202 Los Angelea ••.•...•• Los Angeles.
Perris .......•...•. .Ul Perris ............... Riverside.
Petaluma ••.....••• 180 Petaluma ......••.... Sonoma.
Phoenix •••..•.••.• 1i8 San Bernardino • . . . . San Bernardino.
Pinole •......•••••. 353 · Pinole •••••.•••.•..•. Contra Costa.
Pittsburg ..••••.•• .420 Pittsburg ••.•.••..••• Contra Costa.
Plumas •..•••••.••• 60 Quincy ••.• , ••••..•.. Plumas.
Pomona •..•..••••. 246 Pomona ....•.•.••... Los Angeles.
Porterville ..•.••••• 303 Porterville • . • • • • • . • • Tulare.
Presidio ...•.•• , ••. 354 San Francisco •••••••. San Francisco.
Reading ........... 254 Redding ... : ......... Sha1ta.
Redlands •..•• , •••. 300 Redlands •••••••••••••San Bernardino.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOnNlA

•

785

T.odge.
No. Post Otnce.
County.
Rellondo .....•..... 328 Redondo ..........••. Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Rt>dwood City .••..••. San Mateo.
Reedley ...•....... 304 Reedley ............ . Fresno.
Richmond •.• "· .... 375 San Franciaco ••..•.. San Franciseo.
Rio Vista •••••••••. 208 Rio Vista .....••.•.•• Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star •••..•.. 83 Forest Hill ••.••..••• Placer.
Rose's Bar •••....•. 89 Smartsville •.. ••••••••.Yuba.
Roseville ....••••. ._.433 Roseville ..............Placer.
Russian River •..... 181 Win1)1or ......•....•. Sonoma.
Sacramento •••••••. 40 Sacramento ••..••.••. Sacramento.
· 1J
Saint Helena •...... 93 St. Helena ••..•••.••• Napa.
Saint John's ....... 3i Yreka .......•.•..•••Siskiyou.
Salinas ....... : •... 204 Salinas .............. Monterey.
~an Benito ......... 211 Hollister ..•..••••••.. San Benito.
San Buenaventura ..• 214 Ventura .•....••••.•• Ventura.
San Diego ••.•....• 35 S:in Diego •....•...•• Ban Diego.
San Dimas ......•.. 428 San Dimas ...••...... Los Angeles.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger .............. Fresnn.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino ...... San Bernar<lino.
San Fernando •.•.•• 343 Fl'rnando •........••• Los Angeles.
San Francisco •.... 360 San Francisco ..••.... San Fran~iseoo
San Jacinto .....•.. 33S San .Jacinto •.••••... Riverslile.
San Joaquin . . . . • • • lf Stockton ..•...•.•... .San .Joaquin
Ban Jose ........... 10 San .Tose ............ Banta Clara.
Ban Mateo ..•.....• 226 San Mateo •..•....••. San Mater
Ban Miguel •••..•• 285 San Miguel •......••. San Lnis Obispo.
Bau Pedro ......... 332 San Pedro ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana ....••... 241 Santa An'\ •.......•.• Orange.
Santa Barbara •.... 1!12 Santa Barbara ...•... Santa Rarbara.
Santa Cruz •...•..• 38 Santa Cruz •..••••.. Snnta Cruz.
Santa Lucia •..•.•. 302 Kings City ••.•.•.•• Monterl'T.
Banta Monica .•..•. 307 Santa Monica ..•.•.•. Los An~eles.
Santa Paula ••..••. 291 Santa Paula .......... Ventura.
Santa Rosa .......• 57 Santa Rosa .•.•.••••. Bonomi\.
San Simeon ......• 196 Camhria •..••..•••••. San Luis Obispo.
Schofield · · .. · · ... U. D. Schofield Barracks ... Leilibua, Hawaiian Ter.
Selma ...••••....•. 2i7 81'1ma •.•..•••.•••.•. Fresno.
Sequoia •........... 349 Oakland •.••.••.••••• Alame1la.
S~erra Madre ....... 408 Sierra Madre . . ....•.. Los Angeles.
Sierra Vallf'y ••.••. 184 Sierraville •...•••.• , .Sierra.
Bilveyville ......... 201 Dixon ............... Solano.
Silver Gate ••••••.. 296 San Diego ...•.•..... San Dieio.
Silver Trowel. ...... 415 Los Angeles .....•.••• Los Angeles.

60

786

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.1
Sincerity ••••.••••. 132 Greenville •..••••••• Plumas.
Si88on •..•.....•••. 310 Sisson ....•.••••••... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain •.•. 271 Stony Ford •••••••.•• Colusa.
Solano •••.••.•••• 229 Vallejo .•.•••••••••.. Solano.
Sotoyome ..•••••.•• 123 Healdsburg • • . • . • • • • Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles •••.••••• .Los Angeles.
South Gate •..••••. 320 Los Angeles ....•••.••Loa Angeles.
South Pasadena •.•. 367 South Pasadena ••.••. Loa Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ••••.••• San Francisco.
South West •....••. 283 National City •••••••. San Diego.
Speranza Italiana •.. 219 San Francisco ••••••. . San Francisco.
Standard ........• U. D. Oakland ............ Alameda.
Stanislaus •.•• ; •••. 206 Modesto ••.•.•••••••. Stanislaus.
Starr King •••.•••• 344 San Francisco ••••.••. San Francisco.
Suisun . . . • • • . • . • • • 55 Suisun ...•.•••••..•• Solano.
Summit ••••••..•.. 112 Knights Ferry •••.••. Stanislau1.
Sunset .••••• ; ...••. 352 Los Angeles ••••...•• Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley •••. 235 Cedarville •..•••••••. Modoc.
Table Mountain •••• 124 Cherokee .....••.••..Butte.
Tehachapi •••....•. 313 Tehachapi .•.•••.•••. Kern.
Tehama . . • • • • • . • • • • 3 Sacramento ..•••••••. Sacramento.
Temescal ••••.••••• 314 Corona ••.••••••••••. Riverside.
Temple ••••• ; ·- ••.•• 14 Sonoma •••••.••••••• Sonoma.
Texas •• ; . • • • . • • • • • 46 San Juan • • . • . . • . • • . San Benito.
Traver •••.••••.•.. 294 Kingsburg ••••••••••• Fresno.
Trinity •••••••••••• 27 Weaverville ••••••••••Trinity.
Truckee ••...••••• • 200 Truckee ••••.••••••• . Nevada.
Tuolumne • . • • • . . • • • 8 Sonora ••••.•••.•••.• Tuolumne.
Turlock •.•.•••••••. 395 Turlock .•••••••••••• Stanislaus.
Tuscan •••••••••••. 261 Williams •••••••••••• Colusa.
Tyrian •.•..•....•. 439 Manteca ......•• -• •.• San Joaquin.
Union •.•.••••.•.•• 58 Sacramento ••••.••... Sacramento.
Unity ••••••••.•••. 368 Glendale •••••.•.•••• .Loa Angeles.
University ··~· .•.•. 394 Loa Angeles ••••••••. Loa Angeles.
Upland ..•..••.•.••• 419 Upland •••.•••.••.••• San Bernardino.
Vacaville •.•••••••• 134 Vacaville •·•..•••••••. Solano.
Vallee de France •••• 329 Loa Angeles ••••••••.•Los Angeles.
Valley ••••••••••••• 135 Linden •.••.•••.•••.. San Joaquin.
Vesper •.•.•••••••• 84 Red Bluff •..•.•.••..• Tehama.
Veteran ••••••••••• 373 Sawtelle ••••••••••••• Loa Angeles.
Visalia •••••••••••• 128 Visalia · .............. Tulare.
Vitruviua •••••••••• 145 Bloomfield ••••••••••• Sonoma.
Volcano ••••••••••• 56 Volcano ••••••••••••• Amador.

GRAND l.ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodre.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Washington •••••••• 20 Sacramento ••.•.••••. Sacramento.
Waucoba .......... 413 Big Pine,. .......... .-Inyo.
Welcome •••••.•••. 255 Lemoore ...••••...•. Kings.
Western Star • • • • • • 2 Shasta .............. Shasta.
West Gate ......... 335 Loa Angeles ......... Loa Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Loa Angeles •••.•••.• Loa Angeles.
Whittier ••••••••••. 323 Whittiei' ............. Loa Angeles.
Willits ••••••••••••• 365 Willits ••.•••••.•••.. Mendocino.
Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington .......... Loa Angeles.
Winnedumah ....... 287 Bishop •••.••..••••.• Inyo.
Woodbridge •••.•••• 131 Woodbridge •••.•••• . San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ........... Yolo.
Yerba Buena ....... 403 Oakland ••..•••••.••• Alameda.
Yolo ...... : ........ 81 Yolo • .-.............. Yolo.
York ............. .423 Watts ............... Los Angeles.
Yosemite •... . ..... 99 Merced ............. Merced.
Yount •••.••••.•••• 12 Napa •.••••••••••...• Napa.
Yuba •..••••••.•••• 39 Marysville •. , , ...••.• Yuba.

787

788

LOCATION OF LODGES

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Adin •.•••.•.•••.•••••••• Adin •.••.••••••••.•••••.•.. 250
Alhambra ..••••••••••••• Alhambra •••••••...••...••. 322
Alameda ................ Oak Grove .................. 215
''
.............. . Apolio ...................... 396
Alleghany •••••••••••.••. Forest . • . • . • • • • • • . • • . . . • . • • 66
Alturas ................. Alturas .................... 248
Anaheim •..•.••••••••••• Anaheim .•.•..•••••.••..... 207
Anderson ••.••••••••••••• Mount Shasta •••••.••••••.•. 281
Angels Camp •••••••••••• Bear Mountain ••••.•••....• 76
Antioch ••••••••••••••••• Antioch ••••••••••..•.•..... 175
Arroyo Grande ••••••••.•• Anoyo .•.•....••...•.•....• 274
Auburn .................. Eureka ..................... 16
Arbuckle •••..•.••.•••••• Meridian •.....•••••••••...• 182
Arcata ••.••••••••••••••• Arcata ..••.•..•••••••••...• 106
Artesia ...•..•••••••••••• Artesia .•••••.••••.•..••..•. 377
Azusa ...•.•••••.•••••••• Azusa •...••••••••.•.••.•... 305
Bakersfield •••••••••••••• .Bakersfield ••••••••••.•••••. 224
Beckwith •..•.••.•••••••• Hope ..•••••••••.•..•....•..234
Benicia ..................Benicia • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • 5
Berkeley •.•••••••••••••• Durant ...••••••••.•..•....• 268
Berkeley •••••••••••••••• Berkeley .................... 363
Berkeley ....•.•.••.•..•• Charter Rock ..•............ 410
Big Pine ........•......• Waucoba ................... 413
Biggs ................... Emmanuel .................. 318
Bishop •..•..•••••••••••• Winnedumah ..••..•••••.... 287
Bloomfield ............... Vitruvius .................. 145
Bodie .••.••••••••••••••• .Bodie ..••••••••.••......... 252
Brawley ..•••••••••••••••Brawley .......••••••••..•• .402
Brentwood ••••••••••••••• Brentwood •••.••••.••...••. 345
Bridgeport .............. .Alta ....................... 333
Buena Park •••••••••••••• Buena Park •••••••••••.•••. 357
Burbank •....•••••• '. ••••• Burbank ....•...•.......•••. 406
Burlingame ••••.•..••.•.• Burlingame ••.•..•.•.•••••.• 400
Calexico ..••..•....•..... Calexico .........••......... 412
Calistoga •••••••••••••••• Calistoga ••••.•••••••••••••• 233
liambria ••.•••••••••••••• San Simeon ••• , •••••.••••••• 196
Campbell •..••••••••••••• Charity •••••••••••••••..•.. 362

GRA?"D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Campton ville ...•.••.• , •. Gravel Range ••..••••..••••• 59
Carpinteria .. .. ........•.Carpinteria .... . .......... U. D.
Castroville ••••.••••••.••. Confidence •.•••..••••.••••.. 203
Cedarville ............... Surprise Valley ............. 235
Centerville •....••••••••• .AlamPda •. ~ ••••••••.. , .•••• 167
Cherokee .•..•••••••••••• Table Mountain .•••..•...•. 124
Chinese Camp ••••••.••••• George Washington ••.••••.. 62
Chico •.•••••••••••••••••.Chico ...•.•••.••••••.•.•... 111
Chino ....................Chino Valley ....•••.•.....• .427
Claremont .....•.•....... .Claremont ..... . .........•. .436
Cloverdale ............... Curtis ...................... 140
Clovis ................... Clovis ..................... .417
Coalinga .••••••..••.••••• Coalinga ••..••••••••••••.•• 387'
Colfax •..••••••••••••••..Illinoistown • • . . . . • • • • • • • • . . 51
Corona .................. Temescal ................... 314
Courtland ••••.•••••.•••• .Franklin ••••••••••••••••••. 143
Covelo ••••••••••••••.•••• Covelo .••••••••••••••••••••.231
Colusa ................... Colusa ......................240
Colton .................. .Ashlar ......................306
Covina •.••••••.•.•••• , ...Covina •.••..•••..•..•..•..• 334
Compton •••••.•.•••••••• .Anchor .••••••••••••....•...273
Coloma ................... <\.cacia • . . • .. • • • • • • • .. • . . . . . . 92
Corning ••••••••••••••••. Olivet .•••.••..•..••.••••... 364
Coronado ................ Coronado ................. U. D.
Crescent City ............ Crescent ................... 45
Crockett ••••••••••••••••.Carquinez ••••••••••....•••..337
Davisville •••.••••••••••. Athens .•....••.•..••....... 228
Delano ..•••••.•••••••••• Delano •....••.•.••..... . ... 309
Dinuba •.••••••••••.••••. Dinuba •....•..•..••..•..... 385
Dixon ••..•••••••••••••••Silveyville •.••••.••••.•••... 201
Downey .•••••••••••••••• Downey .•..........•..•.... 220
Downieville .............. Mountain Shade ............ 18
Drytown •••••..•••••••••.Drytown ••••••••••••.•..... 174
Dutch Flat ••••••••••.••. Clay ........................101
Dunsmuir ••••.••.•..•••••Dunsmuir ............ . ...... 297
Eagle Rock ... . ...........Eagle Rock ••.•••.•••..•.•.. 422
East Oakland •••••••••••• Brooklyn •.••••...•••..•••.. 225
Elk Grove ••..•.••••••• , ·.Elk Grove .•••.•.••.•....... l 73
Elsinore ••••••••••••••• , .Elsinore ••••••••••••••.•••.. 289
EI Centro ••.••••••••••••. El Centro ••.• , •.•••••...•••. 384
El Dorado ••••.•••••••••. Hiram • . • • • • . • • . • • • • • . • • • • . 43
El Monte •••••••••••••• , .Lexington •••••••.•••••..••• 104
Eacondide •••••••••• , .....Consuelo ••••••••••••••••••. 325
Etna Mill ................ Evening Star ............. .• 186

789

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

790

LOCATION OF LODGES

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Eureka •..••••.•.•••••••• Humboldt • • • • . . . • • . . . . • . . . • 79
Exeter ....•......•••••••• Exeter .
424
Fallbrook •••••••.••••••• .Fallbrook
:317
Fernando .•.••••••••••••• San Fernando ....•..•••...•. 343
Ferndale ..••..••• : • ••••• .Ferndale ••••.••.•••••.....•• 193
Fillmore •..•••.•••••••••• Fillmore ..•••..•.••••••..•••379
Forbestown ••.••.••••••.• Forbestown •.••.••••••••.... 50
Folsom ••...•••..•••••••• Natoma ...•..••.•.•.•••.•.. 64
Fort Bidwell •••.••••••••• North East .•••...•••••..•.. 268
Fort Bragg ••...••.•••••• Fort Bragg .•...••...•...••. 361
Fort Jones •••..•••••••••• North Star •..•••.••••....•• 91
Forest Hill •.•••..••••.•• Rising Star . • . • . • • • • • . . . • . • . 83
Fortuna ....•......•••••• Eel River •...•....•..••..•• 147
Fowler ....•..•..•• ~· •..• Fowler .....•.•...•..•...... 398
Fresno •.•••.•••••••••••• .Fresno ...•.•••••.••••••.... 247
"
....•....•••..•••• Las Palmas ••••...••••.•.•.. 366
Fullerton ....•••.•••••••• Fullerton ••.••.••••••••••.•. 339
Galt ........••••••••••••,Galt •...•••..•••••••.....•..267
Gardena ... ••..•••••••••• Gard41na .••...••.•.•••••.... 372
Georgetown •..•••••••••••Georgetown • • . . . . • • . . . . . . • . • 25
Gilroy ..•••..•••.•••••••• Keith ••..•••••.••........•.• 187
Glendale ................. Unity •.•.•.•••..••••••...•. 368
Glendora •....•.••••••••• Glendora .••...•.•....••.••. 404
Grafton ••...•••.•••••••• Grafton ...........•.......• 141
Grass Valley ..••.••.••••• Madison ..••...•••...•••...• 23
Greenville ..••.•••..•••• ,Sincerity •...•••.••..••..... 132
Griuley .................. North Butte ................ 230
Guadalupe •....•..••••••• Guadalupe ...•..••.••...•.•• 237
Guerneville ..•••.•••••••. Mount Jackson .••..•.•••••. 295
Hammonton ...•......•.. Hammonton ................ 433
Hanford ...•.••.•••••••••Hanford ..••••...•....••.•.. 279
Haywards ..••••••••••••• Eucalyptus .•.•••.••••..•... 243
Healdsburg •.•••••.•••••• Botoyome •.•••......•••..•••123
Hilo, H. I. • .•••••.••••••• Kilauea •..•.••..•••.•••••.•.330
Homitos •....••.••••••••• Hornitos ..••••.•••••....... 98
Hollister .................San Benito ................. 211
Hollywood ••.••••••••••••Hollywood · ..•••...•••••••... 355
HoltTille ••....•••.•••••.. Holtville .•......•.•........ 425
Honolulu, H. I .••••••••••• Hawaiian •..•.•........••.. 21
Honolulu, H. I ••••••••••••Oceanic .••••.•..•...•••..•. 371
Honolulu ..•... .. ..•••••• Honolulu .... .... . .......... 409
Huntington Beach : ••••••• Huntington Beach •....••.... 380
Huntington Park ..•.••.••. Rising Light .....•.... .. ..•. 397
0

::::::::::::::::::

791

Post omce.
Lodge.
No.
Igo •••••••••••••••••••••• Clinton ••••••••••••••••••••• 119
Imperial ..••.•••••••••••• Imperial •••.•..••••.••••• • •• 390
Independence ••••••••••••lllyo .••••••••••••••••••.•••.221
Inglewood •••.••.•••••••.. Inglewood ••......•..•.••••. 421
Ione ..•••...••••••••••.••Ione • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • . • . • • 80
Jackson •...••.•••••••••• Amador •••••...••...••.•.•• 65
Janesville ••••.••••••••••• Janesville •.•••.•.•••••.•••. 232
Kerman ..•......••••••••• Fresno •••.•..•••.•••.••••. A20
Kingsburg ............... Traver ••.•...•.•..• . •....•. 294
Kings City ............... Santa Lucia .•.•..••..•••... 302
Knights Ferry ...........Summit ..•.•...•..•••.••....112
Lakeport .••..•••••••••••Hartley •.•.•..•....••...•.• 199
La Mesa ..........•....• La Mesa ..•...........•..•.. 407
Lancaster .. . ...........• .Lancaster ...•...........•. .437
Laporte ......•..•••••••• Jefferson •.••...•..••...•..• 97
Lemoore •.....•..•••••••• Welcome •.••..•••••..••..•. 255
Lincoln •.•.••....••••••• ,Gold Hill •...•••.••••.•••.•• 32
Linden .....•.•••••.•••••Valley ..•.•• . ••.•••.••...... 135
Lindsay ............•.•.. Lindsay •...........•...•... 416
Livermore ..••.•••.•••••• Mo11aic • • . • • . . .•..••..•••.. 218
Lodi ...•..•..•..•••••••••Lodi • . • • • • . • • ..••...•...•. 256
Lompoc ....•...•..••••.••Lompoc .....................262
Lower Lake ............. Clear Lake ....•.••....•...•.183
Long Beach ...••••••••••• Long Beach •..••..••••...... 327
''
............. ,Palos Verdes ............... . 389
Los Angeles •••••••••••••• Los Angeles .••...•.•.••.•.• 42
''
............. .Wilmington ................ . 198
''
........... ... Pentalpha ......... ... .... ... 202
''
.............. , .Southern California •........ 278
''
.............. . East Gate .................. . 290
•••...•••••••• Hollenbeck •.•••.•••...•..•. 319
"
...••••••••••. South Gate •.•.••••.•....•.. 320
"
•.•••••••••••. Vallee de France •••••••••.•.329
•..••••••••••• West Gate ••••••...•....•.•. 335
•..•••••••.••• Palestine •••..••..• . •••...•. 351
"
•....••••••••. Sunset .••..•.....•.•...••.. 352
•..••••••••••. Golden State .•.••••...•.•.•• 358
"
•......•.•.••. Mizpah •..••....•.•...•••...378
"
• • ••••....•.• Highland Park •••...••...•.• 382
"
•..•.••••••.•• West Lake •. • ..•..••..••••.. 392
•...•••.•••••• University ...•.•.••..••.•.•. 394
"
•..••..•••••.. Moneta ..•••••.•••...••.•.•. 405
•.....••.•..•. Arlington •....••..•.. .'..... 414
. ......••.••.• Silver Trowel. .• •..•..•••.•. 415

.....
..
..
....
..

LOCATION OF LODOES

GRAND LODGE 01'" CALIFORNIA

Poet omce.
Lodge.
No.
Los Angeles ....•.•.......El)'llian ....•....•.....•••. .. 4111

Poet Office.
Lodge.
No.
Oceanside ................Oceanside •••••••••••••••••. 381
Ontario ...•••••••••••••• ,Ontario ••••••..••••••••••.. 301
Orange •.•••.•••••.•..••• Orange Grove •..•••••.••.••. 293
Orland ••••.••••••••••••. Orland ••••••.••••••••.••.•. 265
Orosi ••••••••••••••••••••Oroai •..•• : ••••.•••.•••••••• 383
Oroville ..••..••••••••••• Oroville • , .................. 103
Oxnard ..•••••••••••••••• Oxnard •••• , ••••••••••••••• 341
Pacific Grove •••••••.•••• Pacific Grove •••••.••..••... 331
Palo Al to •••.•••••••••••• Palo Al to •••••••••••••.•••. 346
Paskenta .•.....••...•.••• Newville •••••.•••••••..•••• 20:.>
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ................ 286
Pasadena •••.•••••••••••• Pasadena •••••••••••••••••. 272
Pasadena •••••••••••••••• Corona .•••.••••••••.•••••..324
Paskenta .......•...••••.•Newville •••••.•.••••••.••. • 20E
Penryn ••.••••••••••••••• Penrbyn ••••••••••••••••••••258
Perris ....................Perris ....••••••••......•••. 411
Petaluma •••••••••••••••• Petaluma •••••••••••••••.•• 180
Pinole ..••.••••••••••••• ,Pinole ••••••••••••••••••••• 353
Pittsburg . •. •• ••••.•••••• Pittsburg ••••••.••••••.••.•. 429
Pleasanton ............... Alisa! •.•••••••••••••••.•••• 321
Placerville ••••••••••••••• Palmyra •• • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . . . • 26
Point Arena •.••••••••••• Claiborne •••••••••.•••••••• 185
Pomona .•••••••••••••• , •.Pomona ••••.••...•••.••••• . 246
Porterville ••••.•••••••••• Porterville ••••••.••.••.•••. 303
Quincy .................. Plumas .................... 60
Redondo •.••••••••••••••• Redondo ••••••..••••..•••. . 328
Rerlding ..•••••••••••••••Reading •••••••••••••.•.•••. 25~
Redlands ••••••••••••• , •• Redlands •••••••••••.•.••.•. 300
Reedley ••••••••••••••••• Reedley ••.•••••..•••.••••.. 304
Redwood City •••••••.•••• Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluff •••••••••••••••• Vesper •••••••••.•.•••.•...• 84
Richmond ................Alpha •....•...•••.••.•.•••. 431
Richmond ............... McKisiley .................. 341
Rio Vista •••.••••••.••.•• Rio Vi11ta •••••.••••.••..•• • 208 •
Riverside •.••••• • ••• ; •••• ETergreen .................. 259
Rocklin ................. Granite ....... , •••••••••••..222
Roseville ..•.•••......•.• Roseville •...........•...... 432
Sacramento •.••..•••••••• Tehama • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • 3

792

''

.............. Germania .................. 438

Los Danos ............... Los Banos .................. 312
·Los Gatos .•.•..•.••••.••. Los Gatos •.•.•••• , •• , •••.•. 292
Loyalton , •••• , •••••••••• .Loyalton ••.•..•..•..•..•••. 35P
Manteca .........••..... Tyrian ........•..•..•...... 439
Maricopa •..•.......•... Maricopa ........•..•...... 434
Marys,·ille ••.•..••.•..••. Corinthian • • . • . • • . •• • . . • • • . • 9
''

..........•... Yuba ...•....•..•......•.... 39

Madison •.•.•••••.••••••. Landmark .••.•...•......••. 253
Maxwell ••.•••••.•••••••.Maxwell ...••..•••••.••••••. 288
Madera •.•••• , ••••••••••• Madera ...•.•.. ..•. • . •...... 280
Mariposa •••••••••••••••• :Mariposa •.••••••••..•••.•.• 24
Martinez •••.•.•••••••••• .Martinez ••••••.•••.••••••••• 41
M eCloud •..•.•..•..••••. Mc Cloud •.......•••••...•. .430
Merced •.•••••••••••••••• Yosemite ........•.•...•.... 99
Mendocino ............... d:endocino ••••.••.•••.•..••• 179
Middletown ••..••..••••••Callayomi •••...•..••.•...•. 282
Milton •••••••••••••••••• .Keystone •..•..•••••••••..•• 161
Mill Valley .............. Mm Valley ..••.••.••..•..•. 356
Millville •••.••••••••••••• Northern Light •.••••.....•• 190
Mokelumne Hill •••••••••• Mokelumne Ilill •.•••...•.•• 298
Monrovia •.•••••••••••••• Monrovia .•..•.•.••. •• .• ••.. 308
Monterey •.••••••••••••••Monterey •••••. • •• • ..••.•• •• 217
Mountain View •••••••••.•• Mountain View •••••. .• .•... 194
Modesto ••••••••••••••••• Stanislaus •. • ..•••••••••••.. 206
Murphy's •••••••••••••••• Ophir .•••.•••..•••...•••.•• 33
National City . ........... South West ................. 283
Napa ....................Yount ...................... 12
Newman •••••••••••••••••Hill's Ferry .•.•••••• . ...•• . 236
Needles ••••.•.••••••••••• Needles •••••..••••••.•..•.. 326
Nevada City ... . ......... Nevada ..•••... .. ..•..•.• . . 13
Norwalk ••.•••••••••••.•• Norwalk ••.•.••.••.•.•.••.. 315
Oakland ••••••••••••••••• Live Oak .••••.••••.•.•• , . . 61

..
.."
''

............•... . Oakland .................. . 188
• •••••••••••••••• Brooklyn •.•••••••••.•...•.•• 225
...•....... . ..... Fruitvale ...... . ........... 336
• •••••••••••••••• Sequoia •••••••.••.•.••.•••. 349
''
...... , ......... . Alcatraz ..... ,, .......... , ... 244
''
............... .-.Bay View ................. . 401
''
............... ·.. Yerba B~ena ............... . 403
''
.................. Standard .. . . .. .... ....... U.D.
Oakdale ................. Oakdale .................... 275
Oceanpark ......•.....••.. Ocean Park • . ............•. 369

i93

''
''

.... . ........ . Washington ........... ; .... 20
............. . Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 40

''

........... . . . Union ..................... . 58

''

... ..•.. • ..•.. Concord ......•............ . 117

Saint Helena •••••• : .••• ,Saint Helena ............... 93
San Andreas ••••••••••••• Calaveras ••••••••••.••.•••• 78

LOCATION OF LODGES

794
Post OIHce.

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

San Bernardino •••••••••• Phoenix .•••••.•••••.••...•• 178
''
.......•. . San Bernardino ............ . 348
Ban Diego •.••••••••••••• San Diego •.•••••.• • ••••..•• 35
''
.............. . Silver Gate ................ . 296
''
. .......... ·..... Blackmer .................. U. D.
San Dimas ..•.•.••.. .- ••. :::lan Dimas •......•••....•.•. 428
San Francisco .•••••••••.• California • . • • • • • . • • • • • . • . . • 1
''
............ . Parfaite Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
''
............ Occidental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
''
........... . Golden Gate ........ ; ....... 30
''
........... . Mount Moriah .............. 44
''
........... . Fidelity ................... . 120
''
........... . Hermann .................. . 127
''
...•..•••.. • Pacific ..................... . 136
''
............ Crockett ................... . 139
''
...•....•.. . Oriental ................... . 144
''
........... . Excelsior .................. . 166
''
........... . Mission ................... . 169
"
........... . South ean Francisco ....... . 212
1
1
• • • • • • • • • • • • Doric
..................... . 216
"
........... . Speranza ltaliana ........... . 219
''
.... ........ King Solomon's ............. 260
''
........ .... Starr King ................ . 344
''
........... . Presidio ................... . 354
''
........... . San Francisco ............. . 360
''
........... . Amity .................... . 370
''
........... ,Jewel . , , .................. . 374
''
........... . Richmond ................. . 375
1
• • • • • • • • • • • • Parnassus .................. . 388
•
''
........... .Balder .................... . 393
''
........... . Fairmount ................ . 435
San Jacinto •••••••••••••• San Jacinto• ••.•••••••.••... 338
San Jose •••• , .••••••••••• San Jose •••••••••••••.••••• 10
''
................ . l 1riendship ................. 210
''
............. .... Fraternity ................. . M9
San Juan •••.•••••••••••• Texas •.••.••.••..••••.•.••• 46
San Leandro ·••••••••••••• Eden •.••••..•••••...•.••••• 113
San Luis Obispo •••••••••• King David's ••••.•.••....•. 209
San Mateo ••.•••••••••••• San Mateo .•••••.•••••..... 226
San :Miguel •• ; ••••••••••• .San :Miguel •••.•••••••...... 285
San Pedro ••••••••••••••••San Pedro •••••.••••.•..••.. 332
San Rafael ••••••••••.•••• Marin ••••• : ••.••••..•.•.••• 191
Santa Ana •••••.••••••••• Santa Ana •••••••.•••••..... 241

Post OIHce.

Lodge.

795
No.

Santa Barbara ••••••••••• Santa Barbara .••.......•... 192
''
••••••••••• :Magnolia ••••••.••.•••..•... 242
Santa Cruz ••...•••....... Santa Cruz ......••. •. · ..•• · 38
Santa Clara •.•• , •••.• , ••• Liberty •••••..••......•.... 299
Santa :Maria ...••••.•••.• Hesperian .••..•...•.....••• 264
Santa Monica •.•.......•. Santa :Monica ••.••••..••.•••307
Santa Paula •.•••.•..••••• Santa Paula •••.••.•.••••••• 291
Santa Rosa .••••••••••••. Santa Rosa •••••.••••.••..•. 57
Salinas •....•••••••.••••. Salinas •.••••••.••. • .••••••. 204
Sanger ••••••••••••••••••.Sanger •••••••••...••...•••.. 310
Sawtelle •..•••.•••••••••• Veteran .•.•••••••.••.•.••.. 373
Schofield Barracks ...... Schofield ••........ , ...... U. D.
Leilihua, H. T.
Sebastopol ••.•..••••••••. La Fayette ••••.•••••.••.••. 126
Selma •..••••••..•••.•..• Selma .............•..•..•.. 277
Shasta ••.••••••••.••••••• Western Star . . . . . . • • • . . . . .• 2
Sierra City ••••.••••.••••. Harmony •..•.•.•.•••.•..••• 164
Sierra :Madre ...•......... Sierra Madre .....•......... 408
Sierraville •••••••.••••••• Sierra Valley •..•••..••.•••• 184
Sisson .••.•••••••••••.•••.Sisson •.••••.•.•..••..•.•.•. 310
Smartsville •. ; •••.•••..•. l?ose 's Bar • • • . • • . • . • . . • • • • . • 89
South Pasadena •••••...•.. South Pasadena ..•.••....•.. 367
South San Francisco ..•••.. Francis Drake •....••.•..... 376
Sonoma ...•.•••••••.••••• Temple . • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • . • 14
Sonora ••••.•••••••••••••• Tuolumne ••••••••••••••••• · 8
Stockton ••••••••••••••••• San Joaquin ............... 19
''
................ . Morning Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Stony Ford •••.••••••.••. Snow :Mountain ••••...•.•..• 271
Susanville •.•..•••••••••. Lassen ..................... 149
Sutter Creek ••••.••.••••• Henry Clay •••••••....••.•.• 95
Suisun ••.•.••.••.•••••••.Suisun • . • • • • . • . . • . • • . • • . . . . 55
Taft .•...•....••.•••••.•• Midway ••.•••.•... • ......•. 426
Tehama ...•••.••.••••••• .Molino .••.••.••.•.••...••.• 150
Tehachapi •••...••••••••. Tehachapi .••.••...••.•••••• 313
Truckee •••..•....••••••. Truckee ••.•••..•..••..•.•.• 200
Tulare .•.•••..•••••••..•. Olive Branch •••••.••....•.. 269
Tuolumne •.•.....•.....•• East Belt •........••...•... 391
Turlock .....•..•.••...•.. Turlock ...•.......•........ 395
Ukiah •••••••••••••.••••• Aliell •.••.••.•••..•..•••••• 146
Upland •........•....•.•• Upland .••..•............. U. D.
Vallejo •••••••.•••••••••• Naval ••••••••••••••.••••••• 87
''
.................. Solano ..................... 229
VacaviJJ,.. •...•••.•••••••• Vacaville •••••...••..•...... 134
Ventura ....•••••••••.••. San Buenaventura •••••.•.••• 214
Visalia ••••.••••••••••••• Visalia •.•••••••••••..•••• .' .128

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

796

LIST OF INSPECTORS
P~st Oft!~e.

Lodge.

No.

Volcano •.•...•.••....••• Volcano •••••.•••••••.•••••• 56
\Valnnt Creek •••.••.••••. .Alamo .•.•••••••• •.. .•... , •• 122
Watsonville .............. Pajaro •.•••••..•••...•• , , •• 110
Watts .................... York •.. •• .••.•...•••.•.. . . .42!\
Weaverville ...•.•••..••• Trinity •••.••..••••••••.•.•. 27
Wheatland ..••••.•••••••• Nicolaus .• .••••..•••...•••• 129
Whittier ••.•••••.••••••.• Whittier ••.• .'............... 323
Winters .•••••••..••••••• Buckeye .................... 195
Willits ••....•••.•••••.•• Willits •.••••••••....••..••. 365
Willows ..................Laurel ••••••••••.•.•.•..••. 245
Windsor •.••••••••..••••• Russian River ••.•.•••••..••. 181
Williams •..••••••••••••••Tuscan .•.•••.••.•••••..• • •. 261
Wilmington ••••••••••••••Wilmington •••••••. •• • ••.• , .198
Woodbridge ............. Woodbridge ................ 131
Woodland ••••••••••••••• Woodland •••••••••••••••••• 156
Yolo .•....••..••••••••••.Yolo ....................... 81
Yreka ....•..••••••.••••• St. John's •••..••.•••••.•.•• 37
''
.................. . Howard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City ............... Enterprise • • • • • • • . • • . • • .. . . • 'i'O

LIST OF INSPECTORS.
NAME
District
Town
Trustom R. Dinsmore...................lst........................Eureka
William Bromley..............................2nd.....................•Ukiah
Charles W. Nutting.......................,.•3rd.....................-Etna Mills
Gustave A. Hutatf............................4th.......................Dunsmuir
Henry G. HilL..................................5th.......................Bedding
Ernest C. Bonner..............................6th.......................Alturas
Willard Clark ....................................7th.......................Orland
Samuel H. Crow................................8th.......................Janesville
James 0. Yoncu:r.............................9th.......................Quincy
Eliphalet L. Case..............:........_•...• lOth...................~ownieville
Harvey H. Boone.............................• llth.....................Bodie
Frederick L. Arbogast...........- ..-12th.................- ..Nevada City
M. David Liniuger.....................- ...13th.....................Auburn
Herbert J. Graham.....................- •..14th.....................Oroville
Lewis B. Wilcoxon..........................15th.................... Marysville
George H. Simmons........................16th...................- Williams
Morton L. Sayre.....................- ..... . ..l 7th.....................Lakeport
Eli Bush.........................................- ...18th........:............Healdsburg
Robert L. Bobertson ..................._._l9th.....................Vallejo
J. Frank Yorgan_.......................--20th.....................8acramento
Hayes H. Qable................................21st....................•Woodland
Louis A. Btieg.................................._22nd....................Placerville
James E. Dye...............................-k.23rd.....................Jackson
Frederick W. Clough..................•.•...24th....................•A.ngel 's Camp
William J. Thome.yer...........- .........25th..................... Lodi
Brooke L. M:oore............................-26th.....................Martinez
Sterling P. Dobbins................._.J7th ...................-Vacaville
Edmund D. Thomas........................28th.....................Oakland
Bradford Weblter............................29th.....................Bel'keley
Granville D. Warten......................•80th.....................Oakland
Richard S. A.llen....................- .......3lst..................•...Ban Francisco

797

LIST OF rnSPECTORS

798
NAME

District

Town

Douglass B. Crane ............................32nd...................-San Francis(~O
William A. Sherinan........................33rd........ ~ .............'3an Francisco
Roderick G. Guyett..........................34th.......'. .............San Francisco
George F. Rodden ........................... 35th....................• San Rafael
Charles G. Landscheit......................36th....................• Redwood City
John P. Jarman ................................ S7th....................•San Jose
Charles K. Tuttle ..............................S8th.................... ~Paci:fic Grove
L. A. C. H. Kylberg ........................39th ....................•Merced
Joseph E. Place...:...........................•40th ....................•Los Banos
Leicester C. Hall... ...........................41st....................-Bishop
Ardie L. Smith..................................42nd................... ~Fresno
John L. Mitchell .............................. 43rd................... _Selma
Frank A. Ellsworth........................44th .................... Tulare
Richard E. Shore..............................45th ..................... Lemoore
Arthur S. Crites .............................. 46th .....................Bakersfl.eld
Manuel F. Pires................................47th:': ..................• Santa Maria
David J. Reese ...............................•_48th .................... Ventura
John H. Bean....................................49th...............•.....Los Angeles
Samuel E. Burke..............................50th..................... Los Angeles
Winfred J. Sanborn........................5lst....................-Los Angeles
Edward B. Spencer..........................52nd..................-Los Angeles
Robie E. Dill....................................53rd..................._Los Angeles
Lemuel L. Test................................. 54th ....................• Pasadena
Wm. A. Vandegrift .......................... 55th ..................... Pomona
Percy L. Nash ....................................56th ...................•Covina
Albert P. Henry................................57th..................... Downey
Clark H. Shaw.................................•58th.....................Long Beach
Eli B. Trago......................•....- .........59th...............•....• Santa Ana
Thomas C. Browning.....................,60th....................• Colton
Henry D. French.~ ............................61st......................Riverside
Egbert C. Bangs.......................•.....•62nd................... San Diego
J. Stewart Ross....,........................_.63rd.....................El Centro
Joshua D. Tucker...•..•..•.•...•..•...••..••64th................... -Honolulu, H. T,
Orel M. Goldaracena...........- ..•..•.•..•Special.. ..............'3an Francisco
Louis Muller ························--······-BpeciaL.............. San Francisco
Giovanni Scalmanini....................... Special.............•.. 'San Francisco
Daniel Cave ........................................Special................ Los Angeles

