\ ra11

1

lln1tgt nf Q1a if rnia

\

ii

fo

nia,
true and
hf I
it
nt) -llr

5920,

)(

ir
tin

1.l

JI

t (

r J

1 IUl11 C

t

I th
ti

/

·.w: c and

the

if the juri c

n

0

n 1tc

on

th.

1

n mr1 ttmony .I I1r of,
>P<
I at

he IC I

ia,

I

the

( an<

l

r r

in ti

( ity
IC

J;

(

,·
Hut .It

CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS
Grand Master
1920

'

n

"ran(l iljn(lgr nf Qlalifnrnia
I, JoHN WHICHl\R, Grand Secretary of the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Seventy-first
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the twelfth day of October, A. L. 5920, and terminated on
Friday, the fifteenth day of said month.

3fn uresttmong ·~ereof.
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have af-·
fixed the Seal · of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this thirtieth
day of October, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred and Twenty.

'

R
I..

as

PROOE~EDIN~GS
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

1J1rrr unh Arrrptrh iWtasnns
OF THE

Jurisdiction of California,
AT ITS

SEVENTY-FIRST ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO,
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 12th, A. D. 1920, A. L 5920
AND TllRMJNATINC ON

Friday, October 15th, A. D. 1920, A. L 5920.

SAN FRANCISCO:
Shannon-Conmy Printing Co,, 509 Sansome Street
1920

GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGEFTOF CALIFORNIA
For the Year Commencing October, A . L. 5920

GRAND LODGE
OF

)

Grand Master....................................:......................... ~eorge . F . Rodden ( 191
177 Post Street, San Francisco.
.
Deputy Grand Master.............•.:............ -_.~ ..._. ..............Samuel E. Burke (352)
Trust and Savings Bu1ldmg, Los Angeles.
(
)
·
.
William A.. Sherman 3.54
Senior Grand Warden..........................................
Lombard and Battery Streets, San Francisco. .
.
Junior Grand Warden ....,............................................
.Arthur S. Crites (224)
·
Bakersfield.
Grand Treasurer........................................................ William
.
P. Filmer (260)
.
.
330 J ackson Street, San Francisco.
Grand Secretary................................................~···········:·····John Whicher ( 209)
Masonic Temple, San Fram:1sco.
Grand Lecturer ...............................................................:Thomas J. Baker (58)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
.
Grand Chaplain...........".......................................................Lynn 1. White ( 191)
San Anselmo.
Grand Orator.......~ .........................•........................Ha:vey D. Loveland ( 360)
Flood Building, San Francisco.
Assistant Grand Secretary...........:.-·-··-'v··················f_larry S. Johnson (~60)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Marsha!............................................................... :Sidney B. Force ( 113)
101 Post Street, San Francisco.
Grand Standard Bearer.................................. Chas. Stanley Chapman (339)
•
Fullerton.
Grand Sword Bearer ...............................:............................Rudolf Beck (341)
Oxnard.
Grand Biblr Bearer..........................................................}ohn P. Jarman ( 10)
San J ose.
Senior Grand Deacon........................................................
. Otto J. Mouron. (8)
Sonora.
Junior Grand Deaccm....................................Herman
. M. Wallenstein (120)
300 Front Street, San Francisco.
Senior Grand Steward .....................:·······:············Alvin P. Rogers ( 194)
Mountain View.
Junior Grand Steward ............................................ Malcol_m Macintyre ( 409)
Box 492 Honolulu, T . H.
Grand Pursu1vant
.........................................................
.Theodore Milliken (3)
·
'
Courthouse, Sacramento.
Grand Organist..·-····--..·-·'···•·'"·v'·····--······················:·Samuel D. ~ayer (1)
l272 Clay Street, San F rancisco.
·
· ·
Frank
G. Watson (354)
.
Grand Tiler....................................................................
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco.

OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
SEVENTY FIRST ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge -of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its seventy-first Annual Communication in Masonic Temple,
in the City of San Francisco, on Tuesday, . October 12,
1920, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following
GRAND OFFICERS :
M.· . w.·.CHARLEs ALBERT A DAMs .....•........•................•.•...••.....•.G,.and Master
R . ·. W. ".GEORGE F. RoDDEN .................................,.........Depu-ty Grand Master

R. ". W. ".SAMUEL E. BURKE.....................•...........•........ Senior Grand Warden
R . ·. W. · -WILLIAM A. SHERMAN ..•.••...•...•••..•...•...•••.•.•.Junior Grand W arden
v. ·. W .'.WILLIAM P. FrLMER•...•....•..•..........•..................-....•Grond Treasurer
V. ·. W . ' ·JOHN WHICHi!R..................•.................•.•................... Grand Secretary
v.·. w.·.THOMAS J. · BAKER..••.....••.........•..•....•.•••.~,:..••••..••••....••• Grand L ecturer
V.'. R.'. EDGAR F. GEE ........... _...................................................Grand Chaplain
W . ·-ALBERT E. BOYNTON•...•.•....•.••.•......•.•....•.••••....••••••..•.•.•••. Grand Orator
W.' .HARRY S. Joai.soN ...........- .....................Assistant Grand Secretary
W.' . CHARLES S . CHAPMAN .••••••...•...••.......•.•...... Grand Standard Bearer
W. '·BENJAMI N B. TuTTLt ......................................Grand Sword B earer
W.'.JoHN P . JARMAN ......••.....•.....••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••• Grand Bible Bearer
W.'.WALTER T. H!LMS ..... _ ...... ,•..•.•.."..•.....••. _ ..•..•... Senior Grand Deacon
W.'.PAUL NATHAN •••.•••.•.•.•.•..••...•.•...•••••.••..•.•••••..•.Jun4or Grand Deacon
W . ·.WARREN E. LrnBY..........•..................•........ ~...S enior Grand Steward
W . ·- CHARLES A. V ANDENBOS ..•.........................•...Jun4or Grand Steward
w • .• THEODORE J. MILLIKEN ..•.••...•..•.•..•.•.•.••.•••••....• : •..•••. Grand Pursuivant
W.'.SAMUEL D. MAYliR •.............•.•.•.••..•.....••.•...•..••..•.•••••.•.Grand Organist
W. · . GJioRGJi W. P!iRKINs................. _.........•.......•...................•...Grand Tiler
[ 01

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF'ORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS:
M.'.W.'.WrLLIAM T. LucAs
M.'.W.'.FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI
M.'.W.'.0RRIN S. HENDERSON
M.'.W.'.CHARLES. L. PATTON
M.' .W.' .ALONZO J . MONROE
M.'. w: .DANA R. WELLER
M.'.W.'.JoHN D. MURPHEY
M.'.W.'.WrLLIAM P. FrLMER
M.'.W.'.ALBERT G. BURNETT
M.'.W.'.BENJAM!N F. BLEDSOE
M.'.W.'.WJLLIAM RHODES HERVEY
M.'.W.'.FRANCIS V. KEESLING
M.'.W.' .BRADFORD WEBSTER

of trust and authority, and in this may we be guided by the highest
motives of patriotism and unselfishness. Help us to select faithful and
conscientious men who regard love of country more than partisanship,
honesty more than greed, duty than ambition, and the good of others
than personal advancement. So shall we be ruled in righteousness
and peace shall prevail, and Thy name be honored and glorified. Amen.

6

and the Representatives of 365 chartered Lodges and Delegates from 20 Lodges under dispensation.
The Grand Master filled the vacant place by appointing
W. ·.Andrew L. Johnston as Grand ·Marshal, and Grand
Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with vocal solo by
W. Louis A. Larsen and prayer by the Grand Chaplain:
PRAYER
0 Almighty God! Supreme Architect and Ruler of the Universe!
We invoke Thy blessing upon this Grand Lodge now assembled in Thy
name and presence. Grant us divint wisdom in· our deliberations.
May the spirit of harmony prevai!. Ever may we be mindful of the
sublime principles upon which our Institution is founded, exemplifying them in our words and acts. We praise Thy holy name for the
wonderful heritage that is ours, and we acknowledge our responsibility.
May we ever maintain the. ancient landmarks, and so transmit to those
who shall follow us those truths and principles unimpaired, but the
rather strengthened and newly-il'.uminated by our loyalty, devotion and
enthusiasm. Accept our grateful thanksgiving for the many blessings
of the past year : the prosperity, the. growth and the peace that has
prevailed within our jurisdiction. Especially would we ask Thy blessing upon the Grand Master and his officers who direct· the affairs of
this grand domain, as well as upon the Masters and members of the
subordinate Lodges. Let Thy loving kindness and mercy rest upon
our dependent ones: the little children and the aged in our Homes.
Grant that the brethren everywhere may be moved to give of their
abundance to supp'y their needs and to bring comfort and cheer to
their lonely hearts. Look graciously, we pray Thee, upon our Nation.
Grant to all the people the spirit of obedience to Thy commandments,
that under· Thy protection we may dwell in righteousness and peace.
Defend our liberties; save us from law'.essness and dishonesty and
vio'.ence. Endue with Thy heavenly grace the President of these United
States and his cabinet, the Governor of this State and all others in
authority, that they, knowing whose ministers they are, may above all
things seek Thine honor and glory. Do Thou at this critical time
enable the people to make wise choice of those who are to fill positions

7

The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
following:
. Committee on Charters: Edward C. Wellesley (30), George A.
Miller (242), George A. Griffin (8), Antonio F. Souza J r. (254) '
Maurice F. Dyer (209).
~ommittee on By-Laws: Ralph Harris (324), Elias Ellison (393),
David M. Sutherland (352), Almon T. Richardson (246), James w.
Crosby (166).
Finance Committee : G. A. Hutaff.

MESSAGE OF GRAND MASTER
The Grand Master then delivered his Message, as
follows:
"Masonry is the activity of closely united men
who, employing symbolical forms borrowed principally
from the mason's trade and from architecture work
for the welfare of mankind." . . •
'
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
Under our Constitution it is the duty of the Grand Master "to
present at each Annual Communication a wri'tten message therein
setting forth all his official acts during the year, exhibi~ing the
general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and recommending such legislation as he may deem necessary or expedient
for the welfare of the Craft."
It is in accordance with that requirement, and not with the.
intent or purpose that it should take the form of an address 1 that
I present this Message to Grand Lodge-including herein some
suggestions, without recommending any legislation thereon.
In this connection I may say that such recommendations as
I make with reference to legislation are due to the fact that it
is the policy of our jurisdiction to reduce our entire jurisprudence
to hard and fast rules incorporated in the Constitution or in
Regulations possessing the same force and authority. We now
have 232 Constitutional Provisions and 492 Regulations.
My experience as Grand Master has confirmed the opinion
I have long entertained, that we have entirely. too much legislation.
Instead of confining our Constitution to the basic Jaw we have
included therein not only rules, regulations and stat11t~s, but in

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

some instances even approved decisions of Grand Masters
construing the law.
I can not but believe that this has been unwise-particularly
_with reference to the decisions made by Grand Masters. It is of
course entirely meet a nd proper that decisions of Grand Masters
which have been approved by Grand Lodge sho uld be collated and
printed ; I believe, however, that these should be deemed precedents by which a Grand Master would be guided, rather than
decrees by which he will be bound; because every decision, even
in our Courts, is made with reference to only the particular case
in which it is rendered. Not only is a Court not bound by the
decisions of another Court of co-ordinate jurisdiction, but it not
infrequently happens that a .Court of Last Resort will modify or
even overrule one of its own decisions.
Now the Grand Master is invested with all the functions of
Grand Lodge when that body is not in session. It does not,
therefore, seem to be proper that in the discharge of his duties
he should be bound by a decision of a predecessor, even where it
has been approved by Grand Lodge, except as to matters which
properly constitute the basic law of the Institution.
As it is, he is bo und by a decision perhaps inadvertently made
a nd which was approved by Grand Lodge only because it was
included in an "omnibus" recommendation of the Committee on
Jurisprudence whose attention was not called to the effect thereof;
and there results the peculiar anomaly that I have this year as
Grand Master made a decision which is not only justified but
required by our law, but which I neve rtheless believe to be
absolutely wrong.
.
.
It was in connection with the withholding of my approval of.
an amendment to its By-Laws adopted by Jewel Lodge. It appeared that at the stated meeting held on February 5th there was
an amendment presented changing the time of meeting from 1 :30
p. m. to 10:30 a. m.; that that amendment was presented in writing
and duly noted in the minutes of the Lodge and a ll requirements
in connection therewith were strictly obse rved ; that at the next
stated meeting, held on March 4th, 1920, the amendment proposed
was amended by changing the time from 10:30 a. m. to 12:00
o'clock noon; and after being so amended it was adopted by
unanimous 'vote of the members present.
I was compelled t o withhold my approval of this amendment
because one of my predecessors had made a decision, which had
been approved by Grand 'Lodge, to the effect that written notice
of the amendment actually adopted must have been given at the
preceding stated meeting and that it was not competent for the
Lodge to amend the proposed amendment.

Now the purpose of requiring notice to be given is of course
to inform the L odge that it is proposed to cha nge the existing
law; and that the proposed amendm ent will be considered at a
certain time. Whe n that time arrives the purpose of the n otice
has been fulfilled and the proposed amendment may then be
considered and acted upon exactly as any other amendment of
which no notice is required. In other words, it is subject to an
amendment which is germane to the o riginal amendment.
That this is a reasonable view must be apparent; and while
this Grand Lodge is of course not b ound by parliamentary law,
it is the rule announced in Roberts' Rules of Order, where (in
considering the question of Amendments to the Constitution
req uiring previous notice) it is said:
"The object of this notice is to inform the Society
that the subject matter of the amendment will be up for
consideration and action at a certain time. It is not to be
inferred that notice is required to amend this amendment;
if this were the case it would be almost impossible to
properly amend by-laws, etc., but this last amendment
must be germane to the original amendment; no o ther
amendmen t is in order or can delay action on the original
amendment."

8

9

Notwithstanding all this, however, I was compelled to withhold my approval of· the amendment adopted. T his made it
necessary for J ewe I Lodge to go through the entire proceeding
a new. Although the members of the Lodge were unanimously in
favor of meeting at noon, this could not be done until a new
amendment was submitted, which could not be acted upon until ·
th e following stated meeting. If, at that meeting, two-t hirds of
the members present had been in favo r of meeting at 12 :30 instead
of at 12·:00 it would have been necessary to defeat the am endment
presented and propose another amendment whic h would go over
for another mo nth. Incidentally it may be said that it would be
impossible to determine whether or not two-thirds of t hose present
preferred to meet at 12 :30 rather than at 12 :00, because under our
law no such amendment could be made to the amendment proposed ; and therefore of course no vote thereon be taken.
A decision which would so result must have been inadvertently
made. Nevertheless that is the law as announced by t his Grand
Lodge. Of course, if Grand Lodge sustains the views I entertain,
it may reverse its previous action by disapproving t he decision
I made. I was, however, bound by a decision of one of my
predecessors which had been approved by Grand Lodge; and m y
decision should therefore be apJlroved. Had I n ot been bound by
that decision I would have approved the amendment; and if m y

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

action had been sustained by Grand Lodge that wou ld establish
the law until changed by some later decision which Grand Lodge
would approve. As it is, if Grand Lodge believes I am correct
in the views I entertain, it will be necessary to change the law
by specific legislation.
Entertaining the views I do, I am therefore compelled to
recommend that A'.rticle XII( of the By-Laws be amended by inserting after the words "provided that written notice of such amendment" the words "or of an amendment to which such amendment
was made."
In addition to the foregoing, and for reasons in each case
stated I make the followingRecommendations for New Legislation
Minutes-It has come to my knowledge that in several Lodges
the minutes are not transcribed into .t he Record Book and presented
to the Master for his approval until long after they have been
approved by the Lodge.
I can see no good reason for keeping a Minute ,Book and a
Record Book. A rough draft of the minutes could be made by
the Secretary in any convenient form. These minutes could then
be transcribed into the Record Book and presented at the next
stated meeting for approval. Any objection or correction could be
noted on the minutes which, when approved by the Lodge, could
be signed by the Master at the close of the meeting at which
they were approved. As it is no w there is nothing to show that
the minutes signed by the Master are the ones which were really
approved by the Lodge.
I therefore recommend that the first and second subdivisions
of Section 1 SO of A rticle V of the Constitution be so amended as
to require the Secretary to record all proceedings at each meeting
and to transcribe the same into the Record Book, and at the next
stated meeting to present the minutes so transcribed to the Lodge
for approval or correction; and after being so approved and
corrected to the Master for his signature.
Remission of Dues-Under the provisions of the 3rd subdivision of Section 41 of the Constitution, unless remission of dues of
a member is made at the stated meeting in July for the preceding
twelve months, a Lodge is not exempt from Grand Lodge dues on
account of such member.
I have had my attention called to the fact that some Lodges,
on account of local conditions, and principally on account of the
weather, never have a quorum at the stated meeting in July, and
therefore no stated meeting is held. Not heing able to remi• the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

dues in July, they are compelled to include in their contributions
to Grand Lodge the per capita tax on members whose dues have
been remitted by the Lodge because of their inability to pay the
same.
T his is certainly inequitable; and no good reason appearing
why the dues should be remitted in the month of July rather than
at a stated meeting held in any other month, I recommend that
the 3rd subdivision of Section 41 of the Constitution be so amended
as to relieve the subordinate Lodge from paying the per capita
tax on any Mason whose dues may have been remitted at any
stated meeting during the year.
Bi-monthly Report-Th e Grand Secretary is now required by
the 10th subdivision of Section SO of the Constitution to not only
keep in his office a full and complete list ~nd record of all expul&ions, suspensions and restorations of which he shall be notified
by the several Lodges, but to transmit that list to every Lodge,
and to include therein, which is of course proper, a list of
rejections. The custom has been to issue this list bi-monthly.
From the investigation I have had made, I am satisfied that
this entails a useless expenditure of time and mo ney. I n most
Lodges the Secretary simply announces the receipt of the notice.
In some, the names of those within that particular jurisdiction are
r.ead; while in others not even the fact of the receipt of the list is
announced. This situation could be of course cured by requiring
the list to be read. In my opinion, however, no good purpose
would be thereby. served.
A petitioner for the degrees is required to state in his petition
that he has not been rejected within . a year. Visitors are either
vouched for, or if examined are required to present documentary
evidence of. their standing. If anyone desires to know whether
any particular individual has been suspended, expelled or rejected,
that information can always be obtained by communicatng with
th e Grand Secretary.
I therefore recommend that Section SO of the Constitution
be so amended as to relieve the Grand Secretary of the necessity
of transmitting the list to the Lodges, but to re quire him to include
in the list kept by him a record of all rejectio ns.
Veterans-On several occasions while visiting Lodges, particularly in the mountain districts, I have hear d the desire expressed
that some provision be made in our law to authorize Lodges by
resolution to provide that a member who has held membership over
a long period of years, or who has reached an advanced age, may
be relieved from the payment of dues.

12

13

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l"HE

ORANP LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In another instance the _suggestion was made·that Grand Lodge
should provide some form of certificate to be issued to a Mason
who had been a member of the fraternity for fifty years.
I make no recommendation for legislation as to any of these
matters, but suggest they receive the consideration of Grand LodRe.

considered the personal privilege of those who were most
vociferous in their condemnation of the practice.
Having primarily in mind, however, the. inhibition against the
Lodges communicating with each other concerning legislation, I
recommend that the entire provision I have quoted be repealed.

Communication Between Lodges-In Section 127 of the Constitution it is provided among other things: "Nor shall any Lodge
send out any circular or other communication to Lodges or Masons
concerning legislation to be brought before the Grand Lodge or
the election of officers therein."
It will be noted that the inhibition goes only to Lodges and
not to individuals. I can. conceive of no good reason why a Lodge
should not be permitted to communicate with another Lodge with
reference to legislation to be brought before Grand Lodge.
Theoretical)y at least the Lodges through their representatives
enact the legislation in Grand Lodge. Why should they be
precluded from· communicating with each other concerning any
proposed measure?
Insofar as the question concerns the election of officers, it
takes on a different aspect; although here again it i-s to be noted
that it is only the Lodge against which the inhibition lies. Furthermore, there is really nothing ethically wrong in seeking office either
for oneself or for another. It is purely a question of propriety;
and one concerning which men may properly differ. Of course
the office should seek the man and not the man the office; but
he goes far who contents himself with a willingness to accept the
office his friends seek for him.

Balloting in Groups-It has become obtrusively apparent that
the condition existing today necessitates a change in the methods
\"~ich prevailed fifty years ago. When the Lodges were small
and the petitioners few, · no reasonable objection could be urged
to the law which requires that a separate ballot be taken on every
petition, and that every member present shall vote. Under the
co nditions which have existed during the past two years, this has
been rendered impracticable, if not indeed impossible. For instance, in one case which has been called to my attention, at a
meeting of a Lodge there were present ninety members. Eighteen
petitions were to be acted upon. Disregarding entirely the requirement of our law that the reports of the investigating committee
shall be read to the Lodge (a law, by the way, which I have found
is "more honored in the breach than in the observance") it would
require at least twelve minutes to ballot upon each of the candidates, and the balloting alone would therefore consume three and
one-half hours.
Now there is of course good reason for requ'iring that every
member present shall vote, and that no one shall be excused;
otherwise it might happen that by a preconceived arrangement
the number actually voting would be so small as would make it
possible to determine who, if anyone, deposited. a blackball; and
the secrecy of the ballot would be thereby impaired. I can, however, see no good reason. why a ballot should not be taken on all
the petitions at one time. If no cube appeared there would be
no necessity for another ballot; and all the candidates would be
declared elected. If there was an unfavorable ballot it would indicate that there was objection to at least one of the candidates.
The petitions could then be divided into two groups and a ballot
taken upon each of these groups just as in the first instance it was
taken on all . . If a cube appeared in either of these ballots, that
group could be again divided or a separate ballot could be taken
on each of the petitions included in that group, depending upon
the number of petitions and the number of brethren present. It
need not be made obligatory, but it could be left optional with
the Lodge at the discretion of the Master.
I therefore recommend that the Constitution be so amended
as will permit Lodges in their discretion to ballot upon more than
one candidate at the same time.

If there has ever been an officer elected in the Grand Lodge
of California without having had some letter "or other communication" sent out in his behalf, it must have been before my advent
in Grand Lodge. It happens that because of my personal views
concerning such matters, I have never even indirectly, or. by
insinuation or suggestion, asked any man to vote for me for any
Masonic o'ffice; but if what the Lodges are precluded by this
section from doing had not been done in my behalf by those who·
desired to see me elected Junior Grand Warden, I wouf<l not now
be addressing this message to Grand Lodge.

Of course the practice may have ceased with niy election.
I have reason to believe, however, that it did not have its inception
at that time, because I distinctly recall hearing the question di.•·
cussed during the first year I attended Grand Lodge; and my
impression at that time was that the real complaint was that
someone else had . done, or was doing, that which seemed to be

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Return of Fees-There appears to be some confusion concerning the disposition to be made of fees paid by petitioners who are.
elected but who do not receive any of, or all, the degrees. I have
made a decision (VI) covering the question presented in the
event of the death of the candidate; but in view of the fact that
we have specific legislation covering certain contingencies, I am
of the opinion that it would be advisable to include therein the
entire question; and that all the legislation with reference to the
matter should be either in the Constitution or in the Uniform Code
of By-Laws; but not in both, as is now the case.
I therefore so recommend.
Withdrawal-In connection with the matter last referred to
I here call the attention of Grand Lodge to a case which arose
during the administration of my predecessor and which can not
be disposed of to the satisfaction of either the Lodge or the
brother concerned without some legislation by Grand Lodge.
One of our Lodges initiated a candidate who subsequently
wrote the Lodge that because of an unfavorable opinion of the
fraternity he had conceived he did not desire to advance any
further.
The Lodge prefers not to carry him upon the records as an
Entered Apprentice; and the only alternative under our present
law is to prefer. charges against him. This would be perhaps
law is to prefer charges against him. This would be perhaps
warranted by a decision rendered by Past Grand Master Foshay
to the effect that no brother will be permitted to resign from
Masonry or renounce . the Order; and that an attempt to renounce
Masonry is an offense and should be punished. This action, however, the Lodge does not desire to take. They believe that it
would be an injustice to place upon this brother the stigma of
having been expelled from a Masonic Lodge. They take the
position that having come into the Lodge of his own free will
and accord, he should now be permitted of his own free will and
accord to quietly retire therefrom. I feel constrained to say that
I am inclined to the views entertained by the Lodge.
If he were a Master Mason he could take his demit without
question. His motive might be the same as that which impels
the action of this Entered Apprentice; but no question would be
raised. I am of course not unmindful of the purpose with which
a d.emit was originally issued. In this jurisdiction, however, we
recognize the right of a member of a Lodge in good standing and
whose dues are paid to withdraw at any time by giving notice of
his intention; and his membership in the fraternity thereby ceases.
In other words we do not seek to compel a Master Mason to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

15

retain his membership. Wherein is the difference in principle in
the case of an Entered Apprentice?
Here is a man who has been guilty of no infraction of the
moral law and whose only offense against the fraternity, if that
indeed be an offense, is that because of something that has occurred, . he has changed the favorable opinion he had formed of
it when he presented his petition. He makes no charge. against
the fraternity, or against the Lodge, or against any of its members. For reasons best known to himself he simply desires to
sever all connection with the fraternity. The Lodge under the
circumstances does not desire to carry him as an Entered Apprentice. On the other hand, those who know him best, the members
of his Lodge, his neighbors and associates, are unwilling to cast
upon him the stigma of having been expelled from a Masonic
Lodge. They Believe that it would be an injustice; and I may
frankly say that I share that belief.
I am not prepared to make any recommendation as to just
what legislation should be enacted to permit the Lodge to do that
which it desires in this case. I can not, however, forbear saying
that it does seem to me that some method should be provided
whereby any Mason who so desires may be permitted to voluntarily sever his connection with the fraternity; but to be subject of
course, as is a demitted Master Mason, to its discipline.
Fee for Homes-The phraseology of Section 41 of the Constitution providing for the payment of $20.00 for the use and benefit
of the Masonic Homes of California has given rise to some mijlunderstanding. I have ruled that the petitioner and not the Lodge
is to pay the tax and that it must accompany all petitions received
at or subsequent to the stated meeting held in January, 1920.
Those rulings are not reported as Decisions for the reasons hereinafter stated; and as those questions are now settled and the
rulings generally understood no additional legislation would be
required if it were not likely that there will continue to arise such
questions as I have answered in Decision VIL To relieve the law
of all uncertainty I deem it advisable that thti entire section be
rewritten; and I therefore so recommend.
Review of Action of Master of a Lodge.....:..With the exception
of Section 144 no provision is made in our law for the review by
the Grand Master of the action of a Master of a Subordinate Lodge
in refusing to entertain charges.
Section 144 evidently contemplates a case where the conditions
are such as warrant the discipline of the Master of a Lodge and
where something more is involved than a mere error of judgment.

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Master would have authorit), of course, under the general power conferred upon him to intervene in such form as he
might deem advisable. There is, howevei:, to be considered . the
question of whether or not it was intended by the Constitution to
vest the Master of a Subordinate Lodge with discretion in the
matter of entertaining charges and whether or not his action was
to be reviewed only in the case of an evident abuse of the discretion vested in him.

Lodge, as well as to the Committee on Jurisprudence, the personal
views he entertains on the questions discussed, but with another
purpose in mind.
In my examination of the law applicable to questions pro. pounded to me for a ruling, I frequently found references to
decisions which had been made by Grand Masters and approved
by Grand Lodge, but which did not serve my purpose until I had
obtained information for which I was compelled to search through
reports of the Co~mitt e e on Jurisprudence; and not infrequently
a decision had been approved in an "omnibus" report without any
discussion thereof. Of course this was where there was no question of the correctness of the decision; but if the reasons for the
decision had been given a question might have been raised. At
least there would have been something more than the mere ipse
dixit of the Grand Master.
It is also to be remembered that it cannot be expected that the
Committee on Jurisprudence, in the multiplicity of the demands
made upon its time during the communication of Grand Lodge,
will be able to devote to a decision reported by the Grand Master
the time which he ought before rendering• it. It is therefore not
unreasonable to suppose (and a false modesty should not preclude
the suggestion being here made) that its labors would be lightened
if with the decision there were reported the grounds upon which
it was made.
In this connection I may say that I have not hesitated to
confer from time to time with the Chairman of the Committee,
P. G. M. Angellotti, and with P. G. M. Keesling (the membeff
most accessible), to both of whom I am indebted for counsel and
advice. In justice to them (no less than to myself) it is, however,
proper to say-in order that Grand Lodge may understand that
their disapproval of my action is not foreclosed-that the decisions
here reported were made not only without their advice, but without their knowledge.

Two cases have arisen this year where an appeal was taken
from a decision of a Master in refusing to entertain charges. I
refused to interfere in either case . I believe, however, that the
matter should receive the attention of Grand Lodge and such legislation be enacted as will relieve the question of all uncertainty.
Decisions
With our growth in membership, and I am inclined to believe
to some extent as a result of the tendency of Grand Lodge to
apparently leave nothing to the discretion of the Master of a
subordinate Lodge, there is a constantly increasing demand upon
the time of the Grand Master for advice as to the course to be
pursued under certain conditions which have arisen.
I have not been inclined to discourage these inquiries, because
they indicate a desire to comply with the requirements of our
law; and I have been at especial pains to make prompt, and when
I believed the · occasio.n required it comprehensive, replies to all
questions propounded .
In the great majority of instances, however, my answers
have been nothing but a restatement of previously announced rulings. In others, while the questions have been new ones, the
answers would be applicable only to the conditions of that particular case, and required nothing more than the application of well
established principles to the particular facts presented. To include
these matters among the decisions I report would serve no good
purpose, but would add to the confusion attendant upon the
promulgation of a multiplicity of rulings.
I therefore report as "decisions" only such of those . I have
rendered as are either answers to questions not heretofore considered and which may again arise in the future, or construe
provisions of our law concerning which there may be some .
uncertainty.
I have not confined myself to the mere statement of the rulings
I have made, but have given the reasons therefor. I have done
this not merely because I believe it is proper that the Grand
Master should be thus afforded an opportunity to express to Grand

17

I.
Jurisdiction-The following .questions were propounded by one
of our Inspectors for a ruling thereon:
(a) Must the applican~ for a waiver of jurisdiction specify in
his request the Lodge to which he wishes to present his petition?
(b) If a particular Lodge is specified in his request and a waiver
is granted, can a Lodge other than the one specified by the applicant act on his petition?
Or in other words, when a Lodge waives jurisdiction, does it
waive only in favor of some particular Lodge, or does it waive its
jurisdiction over the applicant generally?

18

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In replying thereto I traced the history of the provision, se:ting forth the conditions. which gave rise to it, and gave in detail
the reasons upon which I based my opinion. A copy of m y lett7r
has been furnished the Committee on Jurisprudence; and I herein
set forth only so much thereof as I deem necessary for the purpose.
I am of the opinion that the applican~ mus~ .specify in his
request the Lodge to which he presents his pet1t10n. I wo':1ld
so construe the languaf.:(e :· "Authorize another lodge t? receive
and act upon his application." ·Furthermore, the history of
the amendment making such provision in ou~ law woul4 app~ar
to indicate that such was its purpose and intent. This being
assumed it would naturally follow that no Lodge other than
the one 'specified is authorized to receive the geti~ion.
. ..
We speak of the matter as a request for a waiver of iunsdiction." Strictly speaking, however, it is not a request fo~ a
waiver of jurisdiction, but a request that the . Lodge having
jurisdiction shall authorize .a_nother. Lodge which. has .n ot to
receive and act upon the petition. 1 he only s~nsi: m. w~1~h t~e
.Lodge to which the petition is presented obtains JUnsd1ct10n 1s
in that which precludes any other Lodge for twi:lve mont~s
from receiving the petition of one who has been rejected by 1t.
This, by the way, applies to the Lodge whi~h ma?e the _request
as well as to every other Lodge. I mention this partlc~larly
because of a decision made in 1897 to the effect that 1f the
candidate is rejected by the Lodge authorized to receive the
petition the rejected petitioner remains the material of the
Lodge from which ~he authority was received.
My decision was in accordance with · the opinion here expressed.

II.
Mr. S. had been a r esident of Berkeley and had r emoved to
Oakland. After r esiding in the latter city thre e weeks he r equested
Charter Rock Lodge in Berkeley to authorize Live Oak Lodge to
receive his petition. The question was as to the right of Charter
Rock Lodge to authorize Live Oak Lodge to receive the petition
of Mr. S.
My decision on the question here presented was based on
the opinion expressed in Decision No. 1. The request must
be made to a Lodge which has jurisdiction over the petitioner
to authorize another which has not to receive his petition. Mr.
S. being at the time the r equest was made a. re.sid.en~ of the
city of Oakland, Charter Rock Lodge .had n.o iunsd1chon over
him. It could not, ·therefore, authorize Lwe Oak Lodge to
receive and act upon his petition.
Live Oak Lodge, on the other hand, not being authorized
to do so by any Lodge which had jurisdiction, could not receive
the petition, because it would not acquire jurisdiction over Mr.
S. until he had resided in Oakland for "six months next preceding the date of his app'.ication"; and I so decided.

19

III.
Quorum-The question propounded was whether unde1 Section
78 of the Constitution seve n members of the Lodge are rquired
to do business, or if seven Maste r Masons being present one o r
more may be visitors.
At first blush it seems strange that such a question could
ever arise. It would be naturally supposed that all seven must·
be members of the Lodge. The doubt, I learned, however, has
arisen because of the peculiar phraseology of our law-the provision of which with reference to this particular question is
as follows:
"No Lodge shall transact any business with a less number
than seven present except th e conferring of degrees."
It is, of course, not necessary that the number requisite to
confer degrees shall be members of the Lodge; and it is, therefore, perhaps not so strange that the question has been raised.
It will be noted that the number necessary for the conferring of degrees is not stated. In deciding the specific question
I, therefore, deem it not improper to cove r the entire matter,
and here report in full the opinion upon which I based my
decision.
The old Constitution and Regulations are silent as to the
number of brethren necessary to make a quorum for the transaction of business. Indeed, there appears to be considerable
confusion with reference to the entire matter-independent of
the question of whether or not the number necessary to constitute a quorum should be members of the Lodge.
· At one time the opinion was very generally entertained that
five Masons were sufficient to open a Lodge and carry on business other than initiation ; but that fo r the latter purpose seven
were necessary. The question apparent'.y was not as to the
membership of those present, but as to the number of brethren
r equisite to constitute a legal lodge with competent powers to
perform the rite of initiation and transact business. Mackey
was of the opinion that in the absence of all written laws on
the subject· we were compelled to refer to the ritual for authority; and that, according to the ritualistic rule, seven constituted a quorum for work or business in an Entered Apprentice's
Lodge, fiv e in a Fellow Craft's and three in a Master Mason's.
It will be noted that he made no distinction between a
Lodge "at work" and "transacting business" ; at least with
reference to the question of the number necessary to constitute
a quorum. He· did, however, in fact recognize that a distinction
exists, because he states that the Pa r:iam entary law which provides that a deliberative body shall not proceed to business until
a quorum of its members is present is applicable to Masonry,
" e.x cept that in con'stituting a quorum for opening and working
a . L odge it is not necessary that the requisite number shall be
actual members of the Codge ; for the proper officers of the
Lodge being present, the quorum may be completed with any
brethren of the craft."
That a distinction is to be observed between "work" and
"business" in determining the n.umber r equired to be present

20

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODG!a OF CALIFORNIA

is recognized by our Grand Lodge in the provision of Section
78 of our Constitution; and the uncertainty with reference to
the number required for the transaction of business is there
disposed of; but there is nothing in that section to indicate
whether or not the number necessary to transact business shall
be members of the Lodge; nor have I been able to find any
other provision of our Constitution which throws any light on
the matter. The question must, therefore, be answered by a
consideration of the principle involved.
The evident purpose of the ru!e requiring a quorum is
· that no business shall be transacted in the absence of a sufficient number interested in what is done. Visitors have no
interest in the business that concerns only the particular
Lodge; and they have no right to vote upon any question
"which may properly come before it." There would, therefore, be no reason why they should be counted to make up
the "quorum" required to transact business.
Furthermore, if all seven need not be members of the
Lodge, no one of the seven (except, of course, the Master)
need be ; and there might then be presented the extraordinary
spectacle of a meeting with fifty Masons present, no one of
whom (with the exception of the Master) would be entitled
to vote upon a question cominl! before the Lodge.
I am, therefore, of the ooinion that it was clearly intended
by Section 78 of the Constitution to provide that no business
shall be transacted by any Lodge unless there are present at
the time at least seven members of that Lodge. And I so
hold and decide.

right of the Board of Relief to levy an assessment and the
power of the Lodge to pay it.
The purposes for which the funds of a Lodge may be
used are specifically set forth in Section 88; and "the Lodge
can not by amendment to its by-laws or otherwise use or permit the use of its funds or property or any part' of them for
any other thing whatsoever."
I, of course, need not remmd you that personally I am
inclined to doubt the wisdom, to say nothing of the justice,
of our law upon this subject. I, of course, realize that the
enactment of the law was apparently made necessary by the
conditions which gave rise to it. Nevertheless, my own idea
has always been that so !ong as any individual Lodge was
able to pay the contributions levied by Grand Lodge and
to promptly and generously respond to calls for relief made
upon it, the disposition and disbursement of its funds was its
concern and not that of Grand Lodge. That, however, is
only my own individual opinion; and while my personal views
would, of course, influence any opinion I might be called upon
to render in construing the law, they do not justify me in
ignoring or controverting its plain provisions. However worthy
may be its purpose and however commendable the motives of
the brethren, the proposed assessment is not "'for the payment
of necessary expenses of the Lodge and for the special calls
for charity for ':"hich it was instituted"; and it is, therefore,
clearly unauthorized and consequently illegal.

IV.
Lodge Funds-The Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles
had levied an assessment of one cent per member on the local
Lodges for the purpose of creating a fund to be used for social _
service work in the slums of the "city of Los Angeles. Some of the
brethren present expressed the opinion that the action was illegal;
and Right Worshipful Samuel E. Burke, Senior Grand Warden,
c~;iferred with me with reference to the matter while I was in Los
Angeles, and later asked that I write him a letter setting forth my
views.
In response to his request I wrote him as follows:
I do not see that I can add anything to what I have
already said to you with reference to raising a fund "to be
used for social service work in the slums" by assessment on
your local Lodges. It is difficult to understand how there
can be any doubt in the mind of anyone with reference to
the illegality of such an assessment. · As you yourself state,
"Section 88 of our Constitution makes this point very clear"at least insofar as the Lodge is concerned.
I, of course, assume that it was not your idea that I should
render a "hair sp'.itting" opinion differentiating between the

21

V.
The following resolution was presented to me with a request
for my opinion as to the legality thereof:
"Resolved, That at the annual m~eting in December of each
and every year hereafter, and commencin11; with the annual
meeting in December of the year 1919, this Lodge shall present
to the retiring Worshipful Master a Past Master's Jewe', the
cost thereof not to exceed $200.00, the money to be taken from
the General Fund; and also a life membership in this Lodge,
which membership shall grant to recipient all of the privileges
and rights of other life members, the cost thereof to be taken
from the Social Fund and placed in the life membership fund
of this Lodge."
Accompanying the resolution was a statement shpwing that
the income of the Lodge in question for several years past, not
including the years subsequent to 1917 (in which, of co1.1rse, the
income was increased) was almost $12,000.00; and wherein it was
said:
"Under the new law passed during the last session of tht
Grand Lodge we will now have a Social Fund of about
$2300.00. If the resolution herewith is adopted the sum of

•

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$150.00 will be deducted in payment of life membership,
leaving a balance of $2150.00."
I replied as _follow.s:
From the figures furnished by you it is evident that the
expenditure o_f $200.00 for a Past Master's jewel would not
be an extravagance. Indeed, your Lodge can far better afford
to expend the sum of $200.00 for a jewel than could some of
the Lodges expend $50.00 for that purpose. There can be,
therefore, no good reason· why you should not fix the amount
to be expended for a Past Master's jewel at a cost not to
exceed $200.00.
The second part of the reso!ution, providing for a life
membership, presents a different condition. This involves a
question not of the amount of money, but of the purpose for
which it is to be expended. Your resolution is based on the
assumed existence of a "social fund." It is true that that term
is frequently used with reference to the money authorized to
be expended for social purposes No such fund, however, is
authorized by our law.
"The Lodge may expend in each Masonic year twenty per
cent of its total revenue for the preceding year for purpose
of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse."
The amount which may be expended during any one year
is not, however, increased by reason of the fact that during
the preceding year less than twenty per cent of the revenue
was expended. In other words, the difference between the
amount actually expended and the amount which might have
been expended is not carried over to the succe.:ding year and
made available during that year; and no fund is created.
You will, of course, note that the authorized expenditure
is for purposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal
intercourse; i. e., for the benefit of the members of the . Lodge.
It is not contemp'.ated that . the money, or any part of it, shall
be expended for the benefit of any individual, either in the
purchase of a Past Master's jewel or for a life membership.
* * * From what I have written you will, of course
understand that the provision for the purchase of a life mem~
bership should be eliminated from your resolution.

VI.
Return of Fees-Two questions were propounded:
1. If the petitioner dies afte r his election and before receiv ing
the first degree, should the fee be returned; and
2. If the death occurred after the first degree and before the
second, or after the second and before the third, should the fee for
the degree which had not been conferred be returned; and in each
instance the further question was asked if the fee, or a ny part, is
returned, should the $20.00 collected for the Homes be also returned.
If after .ele~ti.on and before initiation the applicant is
found to be mehg1blc because of physical disqualification, the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

23

fees paid by him must be returned (Cons. 108b). T his would
indicate that it is not the e'. ection to membership which warrants a Lodge in retaining the fees.
If, however, the candidate refuses to p~ocee d fu rther he
is not entitled to a return of any of the fees ( Cons. 11 la) ;
and by Section 2 of Article IV of the by-laws it is specifically
provided that if an applicant elected to receive the degrees does
not come forward to be : initiated within three months the fee
shall be forfeited, unless the L odge shall otherwise direct.
It would, therefore, appear that the retention of the fees
where the degrees have not been conferred is in the nature. of
a penalty. Where there is no fault no pena!ty should be
inflicted; and, while there is nothing in our law requiring it,
there is no reason why the fee should not be retu rned.
The $20.00 fee for the Homes is paid by th e LOdge only
upon each initiate. If the candidate has not been initiated
the Lodge is not required to transmit the $20.00 to the Grand
Lodge for the Homes; and, of course, should not be permitted
to retain it. The alternative is to return it to the one from
whom it was received, or, in the event of his death, to his
personal representative.
There would be, of course, no difference between an elected
candidate dying before receiving his first degree and one who
had died after receiving his first and before the second, or
after receiving the second and before the third-except with
regard to the $20.00 contribution fo r the benefit of the Homes.
That amount is payable on all initiates. The moment a candidate is initiated the Lodge becomes liable to Grand Lodge for
the payment of that amount ; and even though it is retained
by the subordinate Lodge until with its other contributions it
is paid to Grand Lodge, it remains the property of Grand
Lodge, and the subordinate Lodge has no control over it.
The Lodge would be, therefore, unautkoriied to include that
amount with the fee it might elect to return.

VII.
The question propounded was whether or not th e $20.00 contribution for the Homes sho11ld accompany a petition for · the degrees of Fellow Craft and Mas t er Mason from an Enter ed Apprentice who had been initiated in ano th er jurisdiction.
My decision was as fo llows :
Our law provides for the contribution of $20.00 to the
Homes by "each ioitiate, and each affiliate from a jurisdiction
other than California."
It would, therefore, appear that its plain intent was that
the contribution should be made by not only every person
initiated in our jurisdiction, but as well by every person
initiated in any other jurisdiction who might seek affiliation
.
with us after the first day of January, 1920.
The E ntered Apprentice petitioning for th e degrees of
Fellow Craft and Master Mason shou!d, therefore, pay the

24

25

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sum of $20.00 for the benefit of the Homes in addition to the
amount required by the Lodge for the conferring of those
degrees.

that if the other brethren had knowledge of th e fact s which influenced his vote they would not be in favor of the election of
the petitioner and would not vote to request a dispensation for a
re ballot.
·an the other hand if there were facts and circumstances which
;vould warrant a belief that a mistake had been made, either as to
the identity of .the petitioner or in the opinion form ed of him
(under a misapprehension which had been subsequently removed),
or if the condition was such that it could be reasonably inferred
that the petitioner was merely the vi~tim of circumstances with
which he wafi in no way personally concerned, as for instance
where several petitioners were rejected on a particular evening(apparently as a result of a preconceived plan), that would be such
an extraordinary condition as would warrant the issuance of a
dispensation.
In one case I issued a dispensation upon a request which was
made at my own suggestion. It was the result of a decision I
made upon the following facts: T wo cubes appearing in a ballot,
the Master declared the petitioner rejected; but ordered a second
ballot on the statement of a member that he feared he had made
a mistake in voting. The second ballot being clear, the petitioner
was declared elected. It was evident that the petit ioner had been
rejected through a mistake ; but that mistake could not be legally
corrected in the manner attempted. This was one of the decisions
I have not reported as such, because practically the same ruling
was made by Past Grand Master Burnett.
Although always willing to issue a dispensation to correct a
mistake, I refused to do so on the mere statement that the Master
believed (or even that the members of the Lodge generally be• lieved) that a mistake had been made; and in all instances insiste~
that I should be advised of the facts and circumstances which gave
rise to such a belief.
I am not unmindful of the fact that I have pursued a different
policy from that by which some of my predecessors have been
guided. With all due respect to th em I am unable t o subscribe to
their belief that the subordinate Lodge is the best judge of the
matter and that its wishes in this regard should be complied with.
If it were intended that a reballot should depend upon t he action
of the Lodge the Constitution would have so provided and there
would be no necessity for the issuance of a dispensation. Furthermore, it has been my observation that such discord as arises in a
Lodge from the rejection of a pet itioner is more often than not
augmented when a dispensation . t o reballot is sought-and particularly if, the dispensation being granted, the petitioner is a~ain
rejected.

Dispensations
With few exceptions the requests for dispensati_o ns which have
been made were either to reballot upon rejected petitioners, or to
receive petitions from those _w ho are without the prescribed qualification of residence.
There is apparently a growing practice upon the part of Lodges
to make requests for · dispensation to reballot upon rejected petitions where the facts do not justify such a procedure. Indeed,
there is an apparent misconception of the entire subject of dispensations and of the purpose of the law authorizing the issuance
thereof.
I am of the opinion that the power vested in the Grand Master
to issue dispensations is to be exercised only on extraordinary
occasions. I therefore adopted the policy of not issuing any dispensation without being fully advised of all the facts and circumstances prompting the request. In other words, I was not disposed
to issue a dispensation to reballot merely because a request therefor was made, or to issue a dispensation waiving the qualification
of residence merely because the petitioner is in the army or navy.
To Reballot-With reference to requests for · dispensations to
reballot I concur unreservedly in the views expressed by Past
Grand Master Bledsoe in his report thereon to Grand Lodge. It is
unfortunately true that it occasionally happens that a petitioner for
the degrees is rejected by a member actuated by unworthy motives.
It is, however, assumed of course that no Mason will deposit a
cube without reasons which to him at least appear to be good and
sufficient. He is not required, nor even permitted, to disclose the
reasons nor even the fact that he did deposit a cube. Neither is it
permissible to make any effort to ascertain who is responsible
for the rejection of a petitioner.
·
Requests for dispensations to reballot are nevertheless fre.quently made upon the ground that some particular individual has
voted to reject a petitioner who should have been elected; and
that the brother who deposited the cube was not . justified in so
doing. I have been in all instances careful to explain that the
mere fact that it was generally believed that the petitioner should
have been elected,· and that the Lodge subsequently by unanimous
vote requested a dispensation, would ·not of itself in my judgment
warrant the issuance thereof. It might well happen that the member who deposited the cube was not present at the meeting at
which the unanimous request for a dispensation was made; and

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To Receive Petitions-That the idea prevails that all that is
necessary to obtain a dispensation is · for the Lodge to request it
in the constitutional manner, was made evident to me in the case
of one of the numerous requests made for a dispensation to receive
the petition of one who was without the prescribed qualification
of residence, upon the sole ground that he was serving in the
Umted States navy.
In these cases, as in all others, I have insisted upon being
advised of all the facts and circumstances before I would issue a
dispensation. The Secretary of one of the Lodges wrote me: "It
would seem that your (my) only duty was to see that the subordinate Lodge obeyed the law by voting properly;"no other provision is made whereby you are provided with information to guide
your judgment."
In reply thereto I reminded him that a request for a dispensation is always addressed to the discretion of the Grand Master;
and that that discretion could not be wisely exercised without a
knowledge of all the facts and circumstances; and that if no special
provision had been made to furnish the Grand Master with the
information which would warrant the exercise of the discretion
vested in him, it was only because it was of course assumed that
a request would never be made without giving the reasons which
prompted it.
In view of the extraordinarily large number of requests to
receive petitions of those serving in the navy who are without the
qualificatitin of residence, and more particularly in view of the fact
that these requests will continue to be made, I deem it proper to
devote to the consideration of this question more time than would
be perhaps otherwise justified; and in this connection I desire to
particularly call the attention of Grand Lodge to the fact that ir;
far too many instances petitioners are being . recommended by
members of our Lodges who have not such a knowledge of their
character as warrants a recommendation for fellowship in the
fraternity.
In addition to requiring information concerning other matters,
in all instances I insisted upon answers being made to the following questions:

known to him for seven weeks, one for nine days, and the other
he had never even personally met. In another case a petitioner
had been recommended by a member to whom he had been "introduced on the street by a brother I. 0. 0. F."
The condition to which I have just referred furnishes one of
the reasons which actuated me in the course I pursued. It illustrates the difficulty that would be experienced by the investigating
committee in making that strict examination into the qualifications
of the petitioner which is required by our law. Even where the
petitioner has resided for years in the community, it is frequently
difficult to find those who have had a real opportunity to form an
opinion as to his character. I believe it would be practically impossible to do this in the majority of instances in which requests
for dispensation have been made.
It will be, of course, understood that I am not intimating for
a moment that there was a single one of these petitioners against
whose character the slightest possible objection could have been
made. Indeed, I am not unmindful of the fact that the course I
have pursued may have had the result of keeping out of the fraternity many splendid men who would have reflected credit upon
it. I am, however,"one of those who believe that it is better that
we be denied the fellowship of one hundred men who are worthy
and well qualified than that a single one who is not be admitted
to our number.
It is also to be remembered that our law authorizing the Grand
Master to dispense with the prescribed qualification of residence
in the case of petitioners in the army or navy is a departure from
the principle upon which is based our claim of jurisdiction; and
that there are Grand Lodges which do not look with favor upon
our law as to jurisdiction, believing that it is a violation of that
comity which should exist among the several jurisdictions.
Our theory of jurisdiction is that one who has come from
another St;te and has resided here for one year with a bona fide
intention of remaining, .l oses the residence formerly held by him
and acquires one in this State. We, however, recognize the principle that a person shall not be deemed to have gained or lost a
residence by reason of his presence or absence while employed •
in the service of the United States. It would thus appear that in
receiving the pe.tition of one who is not a resident of California,
we invade the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge or' the State in
which the petitioner resided at the time of his enlistment.
In some instanc.es I have refused a dispensation where the
facts might have warranted its issuance. I did this in the exercise
of the discretion vested in me, because I believed it to be for the
best interests of the fraternity, and for this reason: It had become

26

(a)
(b)

(c)

How long has the petitioner resided in your jurisdiction?
Where has he been stationed since he has been in the
service of the United States? (Give the length of his
residence at each station.)
How long has he been personally known to those who
recommend him?
-

The information disclosed was amazing. In one Lodge a
brother had recommended three petitioners; one of them had been

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

apparent to me that it was not generally understood that the granting of dispensations rests in the sound discretion of the Grand
Master, to be exercised with regard to the particular facts and
circumstances in each case; and that it would be difficult to differentiate between cases where dispensations had been granted
and those where they had been refused without a knowledge of all
the facts. All that would be generally known would be that dispensations had been requested for two men serving in the United
States navy and who had been stationed here for perhaps the same
length of time; and that a dispensation had been granted in one
case and refused in the other. This would cause discontent and
dissatisfaction; and if it happened that these . requests were made
by two different Lodges, some feeling might be possibly engendered
between them. In fact in one of the communications I received
with reference to this matter the statement was made: "We want
every other Lodge to be governed by the same regulations that
we are."
·
Of course it would be desirable to establish a rule defining
the conditions under which the Grand Master would as a matter
of course issue a dispensation to receive a petition from one who
was without the necessary qualification of residence. That, however, is impossible. If any rule could be established it would be
incorporated in the Constitution. It is because this is not possible
that the matter has been left to the discretion of the Grand Master.
The rule is that no Lodge shall receive a petition for the degrees of Masonry unless the applicant shall have been a resident
of this jurisdiction for the statutory time. There is, however, one
exception to this rule. The petition of a person belonging to the
army or navy who has not the qualification of residence may be
received if the Grand Master will dispense with that requirement.
It is only in the case of one in the army or navy that the qualification of residence may be dispensed with; but it does not follow
that it will be, merely because· a request is made; otherwise it
would be an idle act to require the Lodge to make the request.
I am not at all certain that it would not be advisable either
to dispense entirely with the qualification of residence in the case
of one in the army or navy, or to repeal the provision under which
his petition may be now received by a dispensation from the Grand
Master. I make no recommendation with reference thereto; but
suggest that this matter receive the earnest consideration of Grand
Lodge.
In this connection I may call the attention of Grand Lodge
to the fact that this question has recently received consideration
in other jurisdictions. In one of them an effort was made to provide by amendment for a law similar to ours. It was defeated upon

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

29

the recommendation of the Jurisprudence Committee; and this
notwithstanding the fact that there were restrictions there suggested designed to meet some of the objections to which I have
referred. Not only was there a provision for a ninety-day residence, but it was also provided that in addition to the usual recommendation of two members of the Lodge, the petitioner should be
recommended by two Masons who had known him for at le'ast
five years-one of whom must be an officer and of a rank at least
equal to that of the petitioner.
Dispensations Issued-Such dispensations as I have issued will
appear in the report of the Grand Secretary. Special reference
need be made to only two of them.
To Act Upon Petition Without Reference to Committee-I
granted only one dispensation of this sort. The petitioner was an
officer in the United States Army and presented his petition while
at home on a furlough. Immediately thereafter he was again
ordered East. He had lived practically all his life in the community and was personally well known to a majority of the members of the Lodge. All the facts are set forth in a letter on file
. in the office of the Grand Secreta1y.
To Transact Business-A request was made by Selma Lodge
for a dispensation to hold its stated meeting on Thursday, January
8, instead of Friday, January 9. The day on which the stated meeting would be held had been fixed as the time for the joint installation by the Grand Master of the officers of the five Lodges in that
District. Selma Lodge had eight p~titions and three applications
upon which to ballot, and there was other important business to
be transacted.
I of course advised the Lodge that I had no authority to change
the date fixed by the by-laws for the stated meeting. In view,
however, of the fact that the day upon which the stated meeting
in January would fall had been fixed as the time at which I as
Grand Master would install the officers of Selma Lodge with those
of the other Lodges in that District, I issued a dispensation "to
transact at a special meeting to be held on Thursday, January 8,
1920, of which due notice to all the members shall be given, such
business as would properly come before the stated meeting in
January."
This is not among the dispensations referred to specifically in
Section 43. It is, however, provided in Section 78 that with the
exception "o f certain work therein mentioned "no business of any
kind shall be done at any other but a stated meeting unless by dispensation from the Grand Master."

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This would clearly contemplate that the Grand Master is
authorized to issue such a dispensation-not by virtue of any
inherent rights by him possessed, but by virtue of the authority
in him vested by Section 43 to exercise all the executive powers
of Grand Lodge during the interval between its Communications.
Indeed I think it may· be fairly inferred from the whole
scheme of our legislation that its real purpose was not to. restrict
the power of the Grand Master, but to have it clearly appear that
he exercised that power not by virtue of any inherent right as
Grand Master, but by authority specifically ·vested in him by
Grand Lodge.
Charges Preferred at Direction of Grand Master
Entertaining the opinion I do that Grand Lodges in many of
our American jurisdictions have unduly interfered with the autonomy of their subordinate Lodges, I have not been inclined to
exercise the authority vested in the Grand Master, except where
I believed that the act or omission of any particular Lodge would
affect the entire craft in tliis jurisdiction-or result in irreparable
injury to the Lodge itself.
In three instances, I directed that charges of un-Masonic
conduct be preferred in Lodges in which it appeared that no
cognizance was to be taken of offenses which had come to my
knowledge.
One was a case in which complaint had been made through
the Grand· Secretary that one of our Lodges had elected a petitioner who had been rejected by a Lodge in Pennsylvania. It
appeared that the petitioner had concealed the fa~t that he had
been rejected in Pennsylvania, and had falsely stated that he had
never been rejected by a Masonic Lodge. The Grand Master of
Pennsylvania was advised that while we do not concede the claim
of that State to perpetual jurisdiction over rejected candidates who
subsequently acquire a bona fide residence in this State for the
statutory period, we will not countenance the election to membership in any of our Lodges of a petitioner who conceals material
facts which he is required to disclose, or who falsely answers the
questions propounded to him; and that we would deal with this
case on that basis alone.
In addition to the fact that the petitioner had returned false
answers to the questions asked, it was charged that his character
was such as would debar him from admissiort to any regular Lodge
in Pennsylvania; and specific instances of his transgressions were
called to my attention.
The Master of the Lodge having been advised of the facts
before the matter was called to my attention, and no action having

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31

been taken, I directed that charges be preferred against the mem.t>er referred to for un-Masonic conduct. I explained t o the Master
that because of the fact that we do not recognize the claim of
perpetual jurisdiction over rejected candidates, we are especially
careful in the investigation we make in such cases, and that I had
no doubt that if the petitioner had djsclosed t he fact that he had
been previously rejected, the efforts which would have been made
to ascertain if there were good reasons for such action would have
resulted in an unfavorable report from the investigating committee.
I further explained t hat I exceedingly regretted the necessity
for the action I felt compelled to take in this case; that I was in
wtire and absolute accord with him in his belief that the man
who by living a straight life makes an earnest effort to retrieve
an early indiscretion should receive encouragement; and that we
should not be too prone to refuse forgiveness even for an offense
which could not be extenuated; but that to condone this offense
would not only justify the claim which Pennsylvania makes for
perpetual jurisdiction over rejected candidates, but would convey
the false impression to Masons in that State that we are le!s
careful in the selection of our material than are tltey.
I had hoped to be able in this message to report the result of
that trial; but I have been precluded from so doing because of
what I want to believe was an excusable delay in carrying out
my instructions. Charges we re, however, finally preferred by the
Junior Warden at the direction of the Master; and the case was
by me transferred to another Lodge for trial.
Assuming the facts to be as herein set forth, the member
refe rred to will be expelled from the rights and privileges of
Masonry, not because he had been rejected by a Lodge in Pennsylvania before he acquired a bona fide residence in this State,
but because he has been guilty of un-Masonic conduct in failing
to disclose the fact of his rejection.
The second case in "which I directed that charges be preferred
arose during the administration of my predecessor.
The mother of a member of one of our Lodges had become
an object of public charity in Berkeley. Learning that she had
Masonic affiliations, the representatives of the charitable organization caring for her communicated with the Master of Durant
Lodge. He immediately .placed her in Hebron H;ome, agreeing
to pay therefor the sum of $25.00 a month. Application for reimbursement was made to the son's Lodge. The Lodge refused to
assume any responsibility upon the ground that she had children
ahle to support her; and for the same reason refused to recommend
her admission to the Masonic H ome as harl been suggested. An
cff,,rt was 111a.rlc to cflmpel the n nly S"" over whom we had any

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

jurisdiction to assume the support of his mother. He refused to
do so, but did agree to contribute $6.50 a month provided the
other children would contribute a like amount. Even the payment of this beggarly pittance he .discontinued after ·he had made
a few payments. Meanwhile Past Grand Master Webster .h ad
ordered · that $25.00 a month be paid by Grand Lodge through
Durant Lodge, which amount has been continued during my
administration.
When the matter was called to my attention I carefully
examined the entire correspondence, and after having conferred
with Past Grand Master Webster and the Master of Durant Lodge,
and also with the Grand Secretary, who was familiar with the
case I arrived at the conclusion that insofar as we were concerned
the ~ea! question was whether or not the son over whom we had
jurisdiction was able to support his mother. If he was, he should
be compelled to do so.
.
I thereupon referred the matter to certain brethren in the
city in which the Lodge ii located upon whose judgment I felt
I might confidently rely, and asked them to make an investiga- ·
tion and report to me. This was done; and from the information
furnished by that report I concluded that the son was able to
support his mother and was without any justificat.ion as a Mason
for the position assumed by him and his attorney, with whom
I had also had some correspondence. Meanwhile I had had an
opportunity to confer with the Master of the Lodge and had
become satisfied that the Lodge would take no action unless
compelled to do so.
·
I thereupon directed the Master to have charges · preferred.
The charges were preferred by the Junior Warden and the case
was by my -order transferred to another Lodge for trial. The
accused was found guilty and the penalty fixed at expulsion.
His mother has now therefore no ·further claim upon us.
This I had considered when I determined to have the charges preferred. I, however, apprehend that the Masons in California will
not refuse aid and assistance to a poor and aged woman whose
claim upon them has ceased as a result of the determination of
the Grand Master ·(and of Grand Lodge if my action be approved)
that there is no room in our fraternity for a man who is so los1
to a sense of decency and honor that, having the means to prevent
it, he will allow his old mother to be a charge upon the public
or even upon the fraternity.
I therefore recommend that the Trustees of the Masonic
Homes of California be directed to admit Mrs. C. to the Home at
Decoto unless the incoming Grand Master shall deem it advisable
to otherwise provide for her at the expense of the fraternity.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33

In the third case in which charges were preferred at my
direction, the accused had been tried in the Superior Court on a
criminal charge and acquitted-but under such circumstances as
gave rise to a very general belief in the community that there had
been a gross miscarriage of justice.
Certain happenings in connection with that trial and the subsequent comment thereon rendered it imperative, in my judgment,
that such action should be taken by the fraternity as would
emphasize the fact that there is nothing in the Masonic relation
that requires any brother to aid and assist another to escape the
consequences of a criminal act, or that even justifies him in so
doing; and that any suspicion to the contrary is without any
foundation.
In this, as in the other cases, the charges were preferred by
the Junior Warden at the direction of the Master and were by my
order transferred to another Lodge for trial. The accused was
convicted; and the punishment fixed at expulsion.

Our Foreign Language Lodges
It will be remembered that at our communication last year
my predecessor, Grand Master Webster, recommended that either
Acacia Lodge be permitted to revive the use of the German language or that we should require all our Lodges to adopt and use
the English language in their work.
On the recommendation of the Committee on Jurisprudence
no action was taken on the recommendation made by the Grand
Master. The result, therefore, was that for the time being Acacia
Lodge was required to continue the use of the English language
while Hermann Lodge was permitted to use German, Speranza
Italiana, Italian, and Vallee de France and La Parfaite Union,
French.
The recommenadtion of the Committee on Jurisprudence was
due to the existence of certain conditions in Acacia Lodge to
which it is unnecessary to here particularly refer, and was influenced to a great extent by the opinion of Brother Fischer, the
Inspector of Acacia Lodge. Since that time Brother Fischer has
become convinced that there has been a material change in the
condition which then prevailed and that the circumstances warrant
a reconsideration of the action taken last year. I was by him
informed that Acacia Lodge would be very grateful for an opportunity to again present its petition to Grand Lodge for permission
to revive the use of the German language, but was disinclined to
do so without a recommendation from the Grand Master that the
petition be granted.

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The situation was somewhat embarrassing. With the change
in the conditions which influenced the action of Grand Lodge at
its communication in 1919, there would appear to be no good reason
why Acacia Lodge should not be permitted to work in the German
language if the continued use of foreign languages was to be permitted in this jurisdiction. If there was no valid reason why a
Lodge should not be permitted to work in a foreign language, it
would seem to follow as a matter of simple justice that no discrimination should be made against any particular Lodge; and
while Grand Lodge had very properly refused to allow itself to
be "dragooned". into taking the action a few recalcitrant members
of Acacia Lodge desired, it now appeared that there was a practically unanimous desire on the part of the members of Acacia
Lodge to be permitted to work in the German language. There
was now no sign of discord in that Lodge and the utmost harmony
prevailed-the only discouraging feature being the particularly
small attendance due . to the fact that the work is being carried
on in a language with which the great majority of the members
are unfamiliar.
I was, however, disinclined to recommend that the petition
of Acacia Lodge be granted, because I then entertained the belief
that Grand Master Webster was absolutely correct when he stated
that the necessity for foreign-speaking languages had gone by, if
it ever existed.
While I have never been o~ the opinion that it would be
advisable to ~ompel the foreign language speaking Lodges to work
in English, it had been my hope that they might be persuaded to
do this. With this idea in mind l at various times conferred with
the representatives of Speranza Italiana and La Parfaite Union,
with whom the question might be discussed without the interjection
of any matters which were not essential to the principle involved.
In every instance the question was discussed fairly and dispassionately; and it is pleasing to be able to report that while it was
evident from the arguments they urged that they were not convinced of the wisdom of my judgment, there was apparent a
willingness to respect the opinion of the Grand Master. As an
evidence of this I was assured by the Master of Speranza Italiana
Lodge that an effort would be made to confer at least one degree
in English before the expiration of my term of office; and it was
with extreme pleasure that upon the occasion o f my official visit
to that Lodge I witnessed the third degree conferred in E nglish.
At the banquet which followed the meeting I expressed the views
I entertained, and this gave rise to a very interesting discussion
which I purposely encouraged. A doubt as to the correctness of
my views was there raised in my mind- not alone by what was

35

said, but by the evidence of a spirit among these Masons of
foreign birth which needed no language for interpretation. What
had been theretofore to me a cold, concrete, academic question
took on a new aspect.
This doubt. was strengthened and confirmed on the occasion
of m y visit to Hermann Lodge where, bot h in the Lodge room
a?d at the banquet table, at my specific request the question was
discussed. From what was. there said, as well as from what I had
heard at Speranza I taliana (and this was likewise the unanimous
opinion of the brethren expressed on my visit to La Parfaite
Union) I became convinced that even a change to the English
language would not (as I had supposed) result in making these
Lodges a ttractive to the native born of foreign parentage. The
me~bership in these Lodges is recruited almost entirely fro.m the
foreign born; and they are no t visited to any great extent by even
those of the native born who are thoroughly familiar with the
language in which the work is conducted,
.
Now I am one of those people who believe that most of our
troubles arise from trying to make ourselves believe tha t our mistakes were right. Therefore instead of endeavoring ·to find arguments io res?lve the doubts which had arisen in my mind, my
efforts w~re directed toward a n endeavor to ascertain if the opinion
I entertained was nqt really the result of a confusion of thought.
I have long entertained the belief that with the retenti~n by
gro.ups. of foreign born citizens of the language of the country of
their birth, there was a tendency to likewise retain the habits, customs and modes of thought of that country to the exclusion of those
of our own. I believed that. it would be not only to the benefit of
the nation but as well to the benefit of those foreign born citizens
to discourage the use. of the language o f the country of thei;
birth, because it would tend to Americanize them. For the same
reason I have advocated· the exclusive use of the English language
as a medium o~ instruction in our elementary schools; and I have
even deprecated the prevalence of foreign language newspapers.
Entertaining these views, my desire to have all our Lodg es
work in the English language was a very natural one; but with
the knowledge I now had, I realized that I had failed to take into
consideration the peculiar conditions which differentiate a Masonic
L odge from any other institution composed of for eign born citizeris. I had entirely ignored· the fact that if the worthy and well
qualified Gf our foreign born citizens are to be imbued with the
principles of Masonry, it must be through the m edium o f a language with which. they are thoroughly familiar.
On mature reflection I became convinced that insofar at least
as Masonic Lodges are concerned, adherence to the ideas I had

36

PROCEEDING$ OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

theretofore entertained would not only work an injustice to the
individual, but would be inclined to defeat the very purpose I had
· m1"nd. With the conviction that there was no good
reason
m
.
h dwhy
the use of foreign languages should not be perm1:t.ed, I a ~o
reason to withhold my recommendation of the petition of Acacia
Lodge.
With reference particularly to Acacia Lodge there is another
phase of the matter to which my .atten~ion has been called by
Brother Ratzer which deserves cons1derat1on. Fr?m the fact th.at
this petition is a"g ain presented, it is of ~ourse .e~1dent that, while
the brethren of Acacia Lodge are loyally submitting to the decree
of Grand Lodge, they are not contented. It would be ind:ed
extraordinary if it were otherwise. Now as Broth~~ Ratz~r po1.nts
nut, .it has always been recognized that good c1tizensh1p . exists
only among a contented people; and that it has been t?e umversal
desire of all wise rulers to grant to their people a sufficient number
of privileges to keep them contented. With him I believe that a
return to the old order of things would not only make the brethren
of Acacia Lodge. better Masons, but also better citizens; and that
the American doctrines which we wish to instill in our foreign
born citizens will find a more receptive ear if preachea in the
tongue with which they are familiar.
l therefore earnestly recommend that the petition of Acacia
Lodge be granted, and that it be permitted to revive the use of
the German language.
Relief for Austrian Masons
It is our proud boast in California that no Mason in distress
ever appeals to us in vain. There came to us an appeal for food
from what purported to be the recently organized Grand Lodge
of Vienna. Theoretically we are still at war with Austria and
these are an enemy people; but if they were Masons in distress
we had a duty to perform.
I was not ignorant of the condition described. From the' letters of a personal friend engaged with Hoover in the work of the ·
American Relief Association I had learned something of the pitiable plight into which these people in Central Europe had been
plunged by their misguided rulers. .I knew that women and
children were suffering for the necessities of life; that not only
was there no fresh milk for the little ones, but that canned milk
was a rarity; that butter was unknown and lard was a luxury;
and that their meat supply was so limited as to be practically un-

37

attainable except by those who could afford to eat at high price
hotels and restaurants.
I had been informed that the general suffering was weighing
most heavily on that great middle class which, having had the
least to do with; the causes which led to the war, had made the
greatest sacdfices for it. I surmised that it was from this class
that there, as everywhere, the fraternity in great part had been
recruited; and that among those bearing the greatest privations
were M_asons who, .perhaps tc;>o proud to accept public charity
unless literally starving, would gratefully receive aid extended by
their American brethren.
·
·

Although the dictates of humanity, no less than the tenets of
our profession, would warrant our relieving the distress of a
starving people, yet it was from the funds of the fraternity that
I purposed making the necessary expenditure. I therefore
requested the Grand Secretary to ascertain if there was indeed a
Grand Lodge in Vienna; and if those from whom the appeal had
come were its constituted officers. As a result of the investigation
~e made we learned that the Grand Lodge of Vienna was organtz~d on December 8th, 1918, and at that time (July) had 14 Lodges
with about 1100 members; and that Dr. Richard Schlesinger from
whom the appeal had come, was the Grand Master.
'

Wi~h this assurance I directed the Grand Secretary to expend
$500.00 in _the pur~hase of food drafts which would be honored by
th~ Amencan Relief Association in Vienna on presentation. For
this amount we were ab!e to provide for the distribution of 1400
pounds of flour, 500 pounds of beans, 160 pounds of bacon, J 50
pounds of lard, 120 pounds of corned beef and 480 cans of milk.
On August 26th, 1920, the following letter was received from
Dr. Richard Schles~nger as Grand Master, under the seal of the
Grand Lodge of Vienna:
"We were most agreeably surprised to receive today
from your hand a Food ·Draft for ten packages Lit B
· .,

equival~nt of $500.00.

Wi; are deeply moved by your fraternal sentiments"
prompting you to fulfill so willingly our brotherly request
and by the abundan~. assistanc~ whi~h you have bestowed
upo'! us. Your prec10us donation will enable us to lend a
helpm&" hand toward~ providing for many of our brethren
be~ongmg to that middle class, suffering most from the
umversal want of nutrition:
·
We beg you to receive o.ur heartiest thanks with the
assu;ance that your gift will be employed in ' the best
possible and most economic way."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Visitations
Our oid Californian "saw"
"From Siskiyou to San Diego
And from the Sierras to the Sea"
would not comprehend the scope of my travels as G~and Master.
I visited our brethren in the Imperial Valley at Calex1c.o, and ;vas
entertained at luncheon by them across the border m Mextc?;
and I sailed over the sea to the island homes 0£ our Lo~ges m
the Territory of Hawaii. I was espe.ciall! desirous. ?f meetmJ t~~
brethren in those small Lodges to which the VISlt ·of a , ra b
Master means so much; and it has been my good fortune to e
able to visit every district in the jurisdiction.
The arrangements for most of my visits were ~ade by the
Grand Lecturer, by whom I was usually accompanied .. Under
his guidance and emulating his example, I learned to dtsre~ard
entirely the divisions of time taught us by the twenty-fo~~-mc.h
hereby we find a "part for refreshment and repose. Hts
gauge, w
h
·
· g to bed you
idea of a really successful visit is one w ere m gom
meet yourself getting up.
.
.
h
I have traveled in cattle cars and on logging trams; I ave
b en trundled in a truck over a corduroy road, and I have walked
o:er a mountain trail from one side of a burned t~estle to the other
lugging the impedimenta of the Grand Master m the shape of a
unk disguised as a suit case, a leather hat box and part of
young t r
..
1
· th d t behind
m overcoat-the remaining part tra11mg a ong m
e us
·
I have been awakened in the cold gray dawn after two h.ours sleep
to catch a limited train which was to stop for my ~specta~ ?enefit,
1 to learn that it was three hours late. While wa1tmg for
~:ai:s I have tramped up and down an unlig?ted platform to keep
from freezing under the shadow o,~ Shasta .s snows and I have
sweltered on Lassen's desert under the blazing rays of the noon..,
" But i• was worth it al.1, and more-at least to me
uay sun.lly and I ' hope to the Lodges. The evident apprec1a
· t'10n
persona ,
· 1 1 · th
mall
of these visits of the Grand Master, part1cu ar _Y i_n
e s
· the mountains and in those remote districts more or
•
·
· h
L o d ges m
less inaccessible by the more luxurious modes of travel, is a ric
compensation for the effort involved. My bret~ren every~here
have been more than kind to me and I owe them a debt of gratitude
I can never repay.
I am especially grateful, as I should be of cour~e, to those of
my own Lodge: I am ever mindful of the fact that 1t was through
their favor that the rich honors which have come to me from t_he
Craft were made possible. It was to my own Lodge, Excelsior

39

No. 166, that 1 made my first official visit; and the reception given
me by those who know me best "warmed the cockles of my heart";
and later, and before my term expired, I ,was to enjoy through
them an even greater happiness. It is not often the privilege of
a Grand Mai-ter to feel the pride and joy a fathe; has in th<! "raising" of his own son in his own Lodge ; but this was mine. Through
the courtesy of the Master and officers of Excelsior Lodge and
assisted ,bY Brothers Rodden, Sherman, Whicher and Baker and
Past Masters of the Lodge, all of whom are personal friends of his
and his mother's, as well as of mine, I conferred the degree of
Master Mason upon my only son, who became "of lawful age"
in June.
This was the only degree I conferred during my term of
office. Indeed, I caused it to be known that not only would I
confer no degrees, btlt that I preferred that no "work" be done
on the occasion of my visit to a Lodge; because I believe that the
purpose of these visits can be otherwise better effectuated. It was
my desire to not only present my views to the brethren, but to
learn theirs; and if there was any particular problem confronting ,
a Lodge to be advised of it, and to be of assistance, if I could, in
helping to solve it. Furthermore I have learned by experience
that men who have sat in a crowded and perhaps poorly ventilated
room for two hours or more and through the lecture of the third
degree, are not in the frame of mind I want them to be when I
talk to them. Whenever it could be arranged, I had the Lodge
closed immediately after the formal reception of the Grand Master
and th~ remainder of the evening spent at the tables where th~
talking was done. It was peculiarly gratifying to me that not
infrequently it was made apparent that the views I had expressed
with which Grand Lodge is familiar were those long entertained
by s~me of the best informed of our brethren who had feared to
give voice to them.
We had some wonderful meetings; and not the least of the
compensation I have found for the time I have spent in the discharge of my duties as Grand Master has been in the opportunit y
afforded me to meet the Masons of this jurisdiction in my visits
to tlteir Lodges. The brethren generally would probably not find
in a recital of the incidents of these visits the interest they will
always possess for me. All will, however, I believe be interested
in my
Visit to the Hawaiian Islands.-Mine was not the first visit
of a Grand Master to our Island Lodges. Four of my predecessors
had that rare privilege. While the visits of Past Grand Masters
Atkinson and Hart are but a memory, the recollection of those of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

40

41

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Filmer and Hervey is still iresh in the minds
. h
· ·t
,
P ast Grand Masters
of those who were my hosts; and my hope 1s t at my v1s1 ma)
have given the pleasure and will result i!l the profit attendant upon
theirs. They were the recipients, as was I, of ..that wonderful
hospitality for which our brethren i~ the Hawauan Islands are
so justly famous; but I can not beheve that so much was ever
done before for anyone as was done for me and for Mrs. Adams,
who accompanied me. I know no more could have been.
We were most lavishly entertained ~verywhe~e . . I. was an
honored guest not only at Masonic gathermgs, but m c1v1c organizations, including ·the famous Commercial Club in Honol~lu and
the Bar Association of Maui ; and for Mrs. A?ams the ladies had
most thoughtfully arranged luncheons and dmners for all occasions when I was being so entertained by the me.n. T o gether ~e
enjoyed with our new-found friends rides a~d drives, surf parties _
and sight-seeing excursions, visits to plantations and to the country homes of some of our brethren, and on the eve of our depart. ure, a most delightful "luau." This was arrang~d by Br?ther
Fenwick and Mrs. Petrie, the wife of Lester Petri~, who ~111 be
remembered for that extraordinary oration dehvered m ~he
Hawaiian language at the Inspector's dinner last y7ar and wh1c.h
was so succinctly interpreted by Brother Fenwick. On this
occasion there ·were ·gathered many of those with whom we ~ad
become most intimate. I refrain from making personal ment10n
of each only because it might seem here inappropriate. .
.
Difficult as it is for me to so believe, it may be that the hospitality extended us was not unusual. I know that neither Brother
Filmer nor Brother Hervey will concede that it was. There were,
however two incidents of my trip to the Islands which every one
will ad~it were unusual, and to which . more than a personal
interest attaches.
Never before has any Grand Master left these shores on a
ship flying the Masonic flag. I sailed fr?m San Fra~cisco on the
7th day of April on the S. S. Wilhelmma, andl fiy1~g from t_he
mizzen mast was a large flag with a blue field on which appeared
in white the "Square and Compass." This had been arranged,
I understand, through Brother Elias Ellison, the Master of Ba~der
Lodge. That it attracted unusual attentfon goes without saymg;
and it was a source of extreme ·gratification not only to me and
to those of our brethren who had been kind enough to assemble
at the dock t o bid me goodbye, but as well t o a large number of
Masons on the ship who made themselves known t o me, and al~o
to our brethren in the Islands. It was transferred to the ship
on which I journeyed to Maui and was ~isplayed ~here, and a.lso
on my return; in fact everywhere on the trip on leavmg or entermg

a harbor. It w as an · unusual courtesy rendered the fraternity by
the officials of the Matson Navigation Company, and was but
typical of the many extended me on shipboard. These courtesies
were of course not primarily to me, individ4ally, but as the titular
head of the Masonic fraternity; and from Captain to cabin boy
there was no one connected with the ship who was not apparently
anxious to do everything that could possibly contribute t o our
comfort.
In this connection I may say that Captain Soule, who was in
command of the Wilhelmina, is not a Mason; but he was no less
solicitous for ou r comfort, convenience and enjoyment than was
Brother Rasmussen of Balde1· Lodge, who was in command of
the ship on which we returned, and to both of whom I am under
obligations for their kindness and courtesy; as I am also indebted
to the other officers ;i.nd some of the crew (many of whom are
Masons) fo r favors received at their hands.
·
While ·at sea I received a wireless from Brother Fenwick,
our Inspector and Grand Marshal, informing me that the Prince
of Wales, who was on his way. t o Australia, would remain in
Honolulu for ·a day and that the Honolulu Masons were anxious
to greet him in the Lodge r oom; and asking m e to join in an
invitation which they had sent by wireless through Colonel Grigg
to the Prince on board the battleship "Renown." I therefore
wirelessed Colonel Grigg_as follows:
" As Grand Master I join with Honolulu Masons in
cordially inviting the Prince of Wales to meet his Masonic
brethren on Tuesday evening."
Within a few hours thereafter I had the information that the
invitation extended had been accepted, and that the Prince would
be able to visit the Lodge at 9 :30 on Tuesday evening.
Incidentally I may say that by wireless there had · come an
invitation fo r Mrs. Adams and me to have luncheon with the
Prince o n ·board the "Renown" on Tuesday at 1 :15 P. M. Owing
to the fact that we did not arrive in the harbor un til nearly 4 :00
o'clock we were, however, denied that pleasure.
Wednesday had been fixed as the night for my official visit.
In order, however, that I might occupy the East upon the occasion
of the visit "of the Prince of Wales, arrangements had been made
to formally receive me as Grand Master on Tuesday evening.
Long before the hour set· the sidewalk and street in front of the
Temple were crowded with a vast concourse of people desirous
of obtaining a sight of the Prince, while the Lodgeroom was
literally filled with Masons- the assemblage overflowing into the
anteroom. The Prince arrived accompanied by Sir Lionel Halsey

42

rROCEEDINGS OF THE

and Colonel Grigg, and escorted by Brother Fenwick and Past
Master Malcolm Mcintyre. I had previously announced to the
brethren that the Prince of Wales as such was no"t entitled to
any Masonic honors; and that the o nly departure from our usual
custom of receiving visitors would be to adopt that prevailing in
many jurisdictions where the Lodge is called up when a visitor
is formally presented to the Master of the · Lod~e.
In accordance therewith, when the visitors approached the
altar the Lodge was called up and Brother Fenwick formally introduced them as ."Our Brother, the Prince of Wales; our Brother,
Sir Lionel Halsey; and our Brother, Colonel Grigg." I invited all
the visitors to the East, where they were seated, the Prince on
my right. I then made a short formal address of welcome, expressing our appreciation of the fact that with the many demands upon
his time, and intending to sojourn in Honolulu !:rot for a single
day, he had availed himself of the opportunity to meet with his
Masonic brethren where he was received not as the son of a King
and heir apparent to a throne, but as a man and a Mason-one
who had not only as a brave soldier and gallant gentleman endeared himself to his own people, but who was winning the esteem
and admiration of those to whom a man is recommended by "the
internal and not the external qualifications." On behalf of the
Masons of Honolulu I then presented him .w ith a silver trowel
with a koa wood handle ; and explaining to him the use American
Masons make of that instrument, I expressed the hope that his
visit would cement the ties which bind the two great English
speaking nations to which civilization looks for its preservation.
The Prince made a short response expressing his pleasure in
meeting his Masonic brethren ; and by his modest and democratic
demeanor immediately won the h earts of all of us. Although the
hour had arrived at which it had been arranged he was to depart
to keep another engagement, he expressed his willingness to wait
until the Lodge was closed. In order to avoid confusion, however,
I deemed it advisable to permit the visitors to retir~ before closing
the Lodge.
In addition to those named who are included in the Prince of
Wales' immediate suite, there were present several other officers
from the "Renown" who were apparently delighted at having an
opportunity to visit a Lodge of American Masons. Altogether
the occasion was an exceedingly pleasant one which will be long
remembered by those who had the good fortune to be present.
In view of the extraordinarily large attendance at that meeting
I was somewhat fearful lest the meeting arranged for the following
evening which was a joint meeting of the Lodges in H c nolulu
would be but sparsely attended. This fear grew out of my recog-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43

nition of the fact that those who might otherwise be present to
greet the Grand Master had had that opportunity on the precedin.g
evening; but my fears proved groundless.
The meeting on Wednesday night was a delightful surprise
to me; and the attendance would have been gratifying indeed even
though it had been my first visit . . At my suggestion the ceremony
of the formal reception was omitted and, "meeting on the level,"
I availed myself of the oppor tunity to express the views I entertain, after which there was a general discussion; and it was a
source of great satisfaction to me to learn that men prominent in
the civic life of the Islands, and who · were present, were ready
and anxious to aid in the movement to make Masonry the great
living, moral force it should be.
·
In addition to visiting the Lodges in Honolulu I visited
Schofield Lodge at Schofield Barracks; Kilauea L odge on the
Island of Hawaii, and Lodge Maui on the Island of that name.
While I have everywhere received a welcome of which any
Grand Master might well be proud, there were certain of my visits
in which the tone appeared to ' be personal rather than official.
This was peculiarly true of my visit to the Hawaiian I slands.
·I have in mind occasions when passing on the street men
apparently strangers to me, I was saluted as one might be by an
old acquaintance. Indeed I was everywhere and by everyone
made to feel that I was not a stranger. Now here have I received
a more cordial and affectioriate welcome than was given me by
the brethren of our Island Lodges and their loved ones. The
"Aloha" with w hich they greeted me on my arrival was of course
given to their Grand Master; but I was ma!le to feel that that
which spC1ke their "farewell until we meet again" (as the steamer
cast off) was to their friend and brother and his wife. It was
through tear-dimmed e~es that, bedecked with "leis" bestowed
by their loving hands, we· had our last glimpse of their fast receding forms as we steamed out of the beautiful harbor of H~nolulu.

"Poli ticks"
As is of course known to most of the brethren in Grand
Lodge, I have long been of the opinion, which I have not hesitated
to publicly express, that Masonry as an Institution would not
continue to justify the esteem in wh ich it is held unless the craft
were a~~kened ·to a realization of t he duties which devolve upon
us as c1t1zens.
It is just ten years ago today when in Grand Lodge I proclaimed the belief that there is no higher duty devolving upon
us as Masons than the duty we owe the Stllte as citizens; and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

qne of the highest duties devolving upon an American citizen is
that which requires him to concern himself with, and take a part
in politics-not politics in that sense of artful 0 r dishonest efforts
to secure the success of party schemes, or even that less objectionable but still restricted sense of the management of a political
party or the advancement of the interest of any particular candidate for public office, but politics in that broader and larger sense
in which it is defined as a branch of ethics-that which concerns
the regulation of a Nation, State or Community and the preservation of its safety, peace and prosperity.
Of ·course it was never my purpose to make Masonry a
political organization in any sense of the word; and nothing is
further from my desire; but it has alway51 seemed to me that as
Masons we might with perfect propriety concern ourselves in our
Lodges with those great public questions which so vitally affect
us as c1t1zens-even though we are as firmly resolved as were
the Fathers' "against all 'politicks' as what never yet conduced
to the welfare of the Lodge, nor ever will." Indeed I believe that
this is not merely our privilege but our duty; and that it is likewise our duty as Masons to assist in the formation and crystallization o.f that enlightened public opinion upon which depend the
strength .and perpetuity of a democracy.
This, however, it is to be remembered, does not contemplate
an organized "Masonic vote" in support of, or in opposition to,
any public measure-or (much less) any individual candidate,
Mason or non-Mason. "Masonry does not vote nor command
votes." All that is contemplated is that an honest attempt shall
be made to solve the problem presented by the question at issue;
that it shall be fairly and frankly discussed; the proofs presented
and the arguments analyzed; but the individual Mason is to be
left free to follow the dictates of his own conscience and to consider his own political preference. Above all, it does not carry
with it' even the suggestion that because a man is a Mason he is
expected to vote for or against any particular candidate. What
may be called "the new program" stresses the importance of the
duty_of a Mason as a citizen; and good citizenship precludes the
consideration of a candidate for public office except with reference
to his indivit:!ual worth and his fitness for the office to. which he
aspires.
ln emphasizing these views I have repeatedly s·aid publicly
as well as privately (and I mention this as illustrative of my purpose and desire in my persistent advocacy of the depar.ture of 'the
craft from its traditional policy) that I will not vote for any man
merely because he is a Mason, nor against another . because he is
not. Indeed, paradoxical as it may seem, I believe it is un-Masonic ·

to do so-un-Masonic not only because it is un-American, · but
because it is in contravention of the principles upon which our
Institution is based.
I subscribe unqualifiedly to the views expressed by Brother
Theodore Roosevelt, for whom there were but two classes of
citizens--good citizens and bad citizens; and I will not exclu de
any man from the first, nor include him in the last, either on
account cif his fraternal relations or because of his race ot creed.
Other things being equal, and only then, I will give the preference
to a Mason-not because he and I happen to belong to the same
fraternal organization, but with the hope that he has become
imbued with the spirit of Masonry which incites us to greater
fidelity in the discharge of every duty.
From one point. of view it was perhaps unfortunate that the
program emphasizing the potentialities of Masonry in the relation
of the individual to the State was launched in the year in which
elections will be held. There would have been less likelihood of
a mistake being made if there had been time to have the craft
become thoroughly imbued with the purpose of the movement
before the temptation was presented to seize upon it as an opportunity to further the political ambitions of certain individuals.
A few mistakes have been made. That was natural if not inevitable. I have never been oblivious to the fact that there is a
certain hazard attendant upon our undertaking. It is, however,
to be remembered that if there was no danger in the "traditional
policy of the craft" it was only because it was in itself innocuous
and inutile insofar as its direct influence on the nation was concerned. Of course no mistake would be made where nothing was
attempted to be done. So long as the time of our Lodges was
devoted exclusively to the conferring of degrees and the elucidation of the symbolism which illustrates a "system of morality
veiled in allegory" we were absolutely safe-if not sane.
Conscious, howeve.r, as I was of the danger of mist;kes being
made, I felt that we might confidently rely upon the discretion
and good judgment of those to whom was entrusted the administration of the affairs of our Lodges; and it is pleasing and gratifying to be able to report that this confidence was not misplaced.
There have been called to iny attention only two instances in
which the Master of a Lodge has failed to· observe the distinction
sought to be impressed upon the craft between the discussion of
public questions and "doing politics" in the ordinary acceptation
of that term.
In one there was a notice in the Lodge Bulletin headed
"Masonic Judiciary" in which certain members of the craft were
commended to 'the brethren for their suffrages.

44

45

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The other was a notice in a Lodge Bulletin calling attention
to the fact that one of the candidates for the Judiciary was an
officer of the Lodge and asking the members to "remember" him
on election day.
In each instance I wrote the Master of the Lodge calling his
attention to the impropriety of using the Lodge Bulletin for such
a purpose. I likewise reminded him that while an individual is
of course free to support any candidate for whatever reasons may
seem to him good and sufficient, it is not the . duty of a Mason
to support a candidate for the office of Judge of the Superior
Court merely because he is a member of the craft; and that an
intimation to the contrary from the Master of a Lodge to his
members was not only unwarranted, but was a violation of the
fundamentals of good citizenship and would subject us to deserved
criticism.
These, as I have said, were the only instances called to my
attention in which there occurred in any Lodge anything which
might be subject to criticism. There was, however, another matter in which I felt called upon to take a decided s.tand. I received
a petition signed by fifty Master Masons in Humboldt county
requesting my approval of the formation of the

immediately. This he di.d ; and I was advised that the purposed
the organization was to "advance the interests of the members ol
the craft along all lines and to counteract any effort that may be
put forth to ·wrong either the Institution or any member thereof
by · those who are opposed to our principles."
. With his letter he sent me. a synopsis of the proposed organization in which the statement was made that similar organizations
exis~ed elsewhere and that they are "recognized in the community
as a political,. industrial .and economic power."
. I thereupon wrote the brother from whom the request had
originally come, stating that not only would the formation of
such an organization not be authorized, but that as Grand Master
I specifically disapproved of the plan; and tha,t if any action was
ever to be taken by Masons as such to resist any attack upon our
Institution, or any member thereof, it would be taken through the
Grand Lodge or its constituted officers, and not through any such
organization as he appart:ntly had in mind.
I furthermore informed him that the avowed purpose of the
Association was not in consonance with the principles of our
fraternity. I explained to him that while in my opinion it was
eminently proper, and indeed necessary, that Masons should be
informed and advised concerning all public questions, including
economic and industrial problems, in order that they might properly discharge their obligations as citizens, in no sense of the word
was Masonry to be made a political organization,· and that the
moment it was so regarded, its power would vanish.
··
I have referred to the ·foregoing at some length, not only
because in reporting my disposition thereof I am afforclf'!cl :in
opportunity to illustrate the differentiation I make between nPrmitting Masonic organizations, as such, to engage in politicG, ;n
the ordinary acceptation of that term, and offering Masons an
opportunity, in , their Lodges, to be informed and advised concerning public questions in order that they may as individuals better
discharge . their duties as citizens; but . as well with another
purpose:
One of the reasons given for the formation of the organization
last referred to was that it would "relieve the Blue Lodge of certain
duties that it is difficult" to take care of on account bf its degree
work;" and that because of the nature of the program that would
be presented "its meetings would be attended by Master Masons
who do not attend Lodge meetings."
Bere is confirmation of the belief I have repeatedly expressed,
that the attendance at Lodge meetings
be incr~ased with a
change in the · nature of the program .p rovided. Under another

46

Masonic Industrial Association of Humboldt County.-The
object of this Association, it was announced, was "to promote the
interests of Master Masons industrially, . socially, economically
and financially when the occasions demand, or the best interest
of the whole Association is served thereby."
It was provided that the Association would meet once a
month in the Masonic Temple, "where speakers, music and other
entertainment would be provided and a supper of limited menu
served, at which time all subjects of interest locally would be
presented by the best informed brethren present."
In the letter accompanying the petition it was stated that the
brothers signing it requested my approval of the formation of
the Association, "which was to be ~hartered or by dispensation
authorized to perform a duty that we owe to one and all Master
Masons."
I of course immediately replied that the Grand Master was
without authority to charter or by dispensation authorize such
an Association; and that while there could be of course no objection to the formation of a Masonic Club, if that was the purpose,
the use of the word "Industrial" in the proposed title had awakened
some doubt in my mind.
I also communicated with the Inspector of that District and
asked him to make a thorough investigation and report to me

will

47

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

head I purpo,,e speaking further concerning this; and I here refer
to only one aspect of the situation.
Craft Masonry has not provided in the Lodge that which
many of our brethren desire. They therefore seek it not only in
the so-called "higher degrees" but in organizations composed
exclusively of Master Masons where their good intentions may be
possibly misdirected.
·
I have no great fear of mistakes that may be made in a
Lodge, however "advanced" may be its program; because it is
always subject to the direction and control of constituted Masonic
authority. When, however, Masons organize outside the Lodge,
a different situation is presented;. and there is today ~on­
fronting us a condition which I believe is fraught with danget to
the fraternity and with which it will be difficult to deal.
·
There are certain organizations which, although composed
exclusively of Masons, are not under the direct control of
Grand Lodge. Nevertheless, because no one who is not a regular
Mason is eligible to membership therein, they are known as
"Masonic" organizations; and for their actions our fraternity is
by the public held amenable. Some of the activities in which
they are engaged are extremely commendable in their nature;
and they foster a fellowship which is to be greatly desired, provided that it be not misused. Not infrequently, however, their"
actions are such as should not be countenanced in any Masonic
organization.
While, as I bave said, these organizations as such are not
subject to the control or supervision of the Grand Master, or
even of Grand Lodge, membership in them does not relieve the
individual from the obedience he as a Mason owes to the supreme
Masonic power and authority in this State. It has therefore
seemed to me entirely proper to call the attention of Grand
Lodge to a matter concerning which complaint was made to me.

"OUR D UTY TO OUR OWN MEMBERS · IS TO
SUPPORT THEM LOYALLY AND ENTHUSIASTICALLY."
A pecu:iarly illuminating postscript announced that " The expen.se of
sending out this announcement was paid by friends of the candidates
without any cost to Jinistan Grotto."
It will be of course understood that my reference to the
matter is without regard . to the particular individuals for whom
the support of the members of Jinistan Grotto was sought.
Indeed, it happens that some of them are my personal friends;
and were I a voter in Los Angeles I would esteem it a privilege
to be able to vote for them. My objection is without regard to
the individuality of the candidates and is two-fold in its nature.
In the first place the issuance of such a circular, paid for by
friends of the candidates, is a prostitution of the principles of
Masonry. It is reducing what purports to be a Masonic organization to the level of a '. 'piece club." It is directly engaging
· in "politics" a s that term is generally understood, and will be
certain to invite disaster. Indeed, it has already brought discord
into the organization itself as well as into the ranks of Mason ry
in general in the city · of Los Angeles.
It is open not only to the objection to which I have hereinbefore referred in considering the notices in the Lodge Bulletins,
insofar as there is an intimation that it is the duty of Masons
to su.pport their brethren for public office, but also to the further
objection that the members of Jinistan Grotto are advised that
their dwty to their own members requires their political support.
Here lies the vice of qrganizations of this sort. Superimposed
upon their obligations as Masons is apparently a superior duty
to give preference to those of their own number even as against
other Masons no less worthy of the support of all good citizens,
including those who happen· to be members of this particular
organization.
I can not but believe that this is subversive of the basic
principles of our Institution; and I have deemed it my duty to
call the matter to the attention of Grand Lodge, not with the idea
that any definite action shall be taken, but with the hope that there
will be such a plain expression of views as will define the policy
of Grand Lodge.

48

The "Grotto"-Under date of August 31st, 1920, a circular
letter was issued to its members by Jinistan Grotto No. 26,
Mystic Order Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm, reading
in part as follows:
"The primary election will . be held on Tuesday,
August 31st. Many of our Jinistan Grotto members are
candidates for various offices; help elect them. We know
who they are and what kind of public officials they will make.
Support them loyally and get your friends to work for
them."
Then follow the names of the c~ndidates referred to, being
a complete list of all the offices to be filled at the ensuing election; and in conclusion. in bold faced letters the· following :

49

Acacia Fraternity and U. C. Masonic Club
In pleasing contrast with what I have felt constrained to
say concerning Masonic organizations which are not under con
trol of constituted Masonic authority, I here make mention ol
two which I believe should receive the specific commendation of

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge. Indeed their aims, purposes and activities are
such that I believe that in the interest of Masonry in general,
and of this jurisdiction in particular, Grand Lodge might well
furnish tangible evidence of its commendation in some material
way. Entirely independent of each other, they are nevertheless
so closely allied that they may be properly considered t9gether.
Indeed one is I believe in a measure the outgrowth of the other.
One of my predecessors, Past Grand Master Murphey, in
his Message called the attention of Grand Lodge to Acacia
Fraternity. As it was his privilege and pleasure as Grand Master
to be the guest of these Masons at dinner in their home at
Berkeley, . so has it been mine; and I was impressed, as was he,
with the great power for good which these young men; imbued
with the principles of Freemasonry, can exercise in the University. More than this, however, there caine to me the realization of what it would mean if we could have men of their type,
and matured by years, of their intellectual worth, active in the
affairs of Masonry.
Without any disparagement of our own work, and of what
has been accomplished by those of us .who are faithfully and
zealously giving to Masonry the best that is in us (or who
may have done so in . the past), we may admit-indeed, with a
knowledge of the facts I think we must admit-that, generally
speaking, the fraternity is today not being served by those who
could be of the greatest service to the craft. Nor are those of
our number who could do so much but have done so little to be
censured or even criticized. No opportunity for the service they
could best render has been heretofore offered them. I can not
but believe, however, that a new day has dawned; and that
there w_ill be opportunity for a special service which can be
best rendered by specially trained men. The nucleus is here
in the Acacia Fraternity and in the U. C. Masonic Club.
There is another service the Club will render. While there
is . no member of the Acacia Fraternity who is not a Mason,. it
is of course not contemplated that its membership will include
all undergra'duates who are Masons. Recognizing the need of
some organization which would provide an opportunity for social
intercourse among all .Masons at college, Brother Chandos E.
Bush, the President of the Acacia Fraternity, evolved the idea
of this Club. Organized with a membership of 12, there are
. now over 200 names on the roll. While there was contemplated
in connection with the Club the organization of a group which
would do some research work in Masonic history, it was primarily designed for social purposes and with the. idea of being helpful
to all Masons on the campus.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sl

At present the Club is holding meetings in the Masonic
Temple at Berkeley, but this does not serve the purpose with
which it was organized. It must have its own clubhouse somewhere in the immediate vicinity of the campus. This clubhouse
while intended primarily of course for its members is to be open
not only to all Masons but to all undergraduates who are the
sons or daughters of Masons. This feature alone should make a
very strong appeal to all Masons, and particularly to those who
have sons or daughters who are now at the University or who
expect to enter in the future. There will be here an influence
of a sort too often needed by young men and women at college,
and particularly during their freshman year. There is now a.
sorority at the University composed of women who are members of the Eastern Star; and with the co-operation which will
be received from that sorority and Acacia Fraternity, the University Masonic Club could be made a great factor for good in
the stll.dent life.
At our Communication in 1914 Grand Lodge adopted a resolution approving the desire of the Chapters of Acacia Fraternity
at the University of California and Stanford University to erect
Homes and commending the project. Kind words, however, will
not buy building material nor pay ·carpenters. That resolution,
it is true, was with reference to the Acacia Fraternity and not
to such a project as that to which I now refer, the benefits of
w~ich will not be confined to members of Acacia Fraternity, but
will embrace all Masons at college and also students who are
the sons or daughters of Masons. It would seem that in the
furtherance of so commendable a project Grand Lodge might
well make a contribution to the fund which is now being raised
to provide the urgently needed clubhouse.
Committee on Masonic Education
The report which will be presented by this Committee will
fully advise Grand Lodge of what has been done. Generally speakini", I may say that the results have exceeded our most sanguine
expectations; and I avail myself of this opportunity to warmly
commend Bro. Irving J. Mitchell and his associates on the Committee, and to express to them my personal appreciation of their
efforts and my 1gratitude for the endeavors they have made to
successfully carry out the ideas I have so long entertained and
which constitute the dominant note of my administration. The
work this year was in its nature an experiment; and it has become
apparent that to achieve complete success there must be a change
in, or perhaps I would better say an extension of, the plan of
organization.
'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At the Communication last year Grand Lodge authorized the
appointment of a committee. of thirteen members, comprising four
Local Units located respectively in Los Angeles, Fresno, San
Francisco and Sacramento. While in the Hawaiian Islands (and
assuming, of course, that Grand Lodge would ratify my action)
I instituted a Unit there, appointing Brothers Abram Lewis, Jr.,
Malcolm Mcintyre and Wallace R. Farrington. In passing, and
as illustrative of the personnel of the men who are willing ·to give
their time to forward this movement, I may s~y that one of the
brothers named is the President of the Chamber of Commerce,
another is the Manager of a large Life Insurance Company, and
.the third is the publisher of the Honolulu Bulletin. Grand Lodge
is already advised of the appointments originally made to the four
Local Units. I appointed Brother Andrew L Johnston in place
of Brother John Clute, who resigned to accept an appointment as
Inspector; and I have recently appointed William V. Cowan as
Chairman of the Northern California Unit, vice J. Fontaine Johnson, resigned. The Fresno Unit is at present without a Chairman.
The work of the San Francisco and Los Angeles Units has
been particularly efficient and too much credit can not be given
them. · The Fraternity is also greatly indebted to those brethren
who responded to the requests for· speakers and who thus contributed to the success of what was .the distinctive feature of our
work this year.
At the suggestio·n· of Brother Mitchell, Officers' Associations
~ave been formed in all the larger cities and towns and in many
of the Districts. It was our hope that every district in the Jurisdiction would either organize an Officers' Association or arrange
for at least one district meeting each month at which all the Lodges
would be represented, and at which some public question would
be discussed; but in this we have been disappointed. In some districts the f~ilure has been due to conditions which it will be difficult to overcome;-the Lodges are small and widely separated
and th~ roads are poor. In other districts, however, where nothing has been · done, it was not because of unpreventable conditions
--<>r on account of a lack of desire on the part of the brethren;
but it was due solely and simply to an absence of the proper initiative. This indicates the necessity for an extension of the plan
formulated last year.
The Local Units should be, .of course, retained; but the CommiHee should have a representative in every district. This could
be accomplished by providing for District Deputy Grand Masters
as is elsewhere herein suggested. Of course the most efficacious
way of carrying on the work would be to place it under the supervision and direction of some competent person who would be able

to devote a considerable portion of his time to it, and who would
be able to visit those districts where his presence was evidently
needed.
Indeed, if the right man could be found, it might be advisable
to have him devote his entire time to the work-or at least so
much thereof as might be necessary. He could be made Chairman of the Committee on Masonic Education and would of course
receive his expenses and such compensation as might be agreed
upon. The Committee will no doubt in its report make some suggestions and I therefore make no recommendation with reference
to the matter.

53

Masonic Service Association
At our communication in 1919 there was introduced a . resolution approving the Constitution of the Masonic Service Assa;
ciation in the United States, accepting membership therein and
requesting the Grand Master, either in person or by representative, to attend the. meeting to be held at Cedar Rapids on
November 11th, 1919. On the recommenda,tion of the Committee
on Jurisprudence no action was at that time taken on the resolution, which was subsequently referred to the Committee_ on
General Policy and Purposes.
A report by that Committee will be presented at t his communication, wherein will be set forth in detail the plans of the
Masonic Service Association with, I assume, a recommendation
of the action to be taken · by Grand Lodge. It will be therefore
unnecessary for me to here refer in detail t o the plans, or to the"
organization through which it is proposed to carry t hem out.
While it is not my purpose to anticipate the reco mmendation
to be made by the Committee on General Policy and Purposes,
nor my desire to attempt to influence the action to be taken
by Grand Lodge, I do not deem it improper to state the opinion
at which I have arrived as a result of some little attention and
consideration I have given the quest ion.
Early in the year I obtained a transcript of the· stenographic
report of the proceedings of the first triennial meeting of the
Association, held on November 11th, 12th and 13th at Cedar
Rapids, which I have carefully examined (and which has been
transmitted to the. Committee · on General Policy and Purposes).
I have also had some correspondence with Brother Schoonover,
the Chairman of the Executive Commission; and have likewise
had an opportunity to personally discuss the matter with him
and also with Brother Randell and Brother Wherry, who are
members of the Executive Commission. I have also had some

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

correspondence with certain Grand Masters of other jurisdictions.
On being advised that Brother Schoonover desired to hold
a meeting in San Francisco for the purpose of conferring with
the Grand Master and with the representatives of the jurisdictions comprising the South Pacific Division of the Association,
I arranged for a luncheon at which the attendance was requested of all our Past Grand Masters, the elective officers of
Grand Lodge and the Chairmen of the various Committees,
together with all the members of the Committee on Masonic
Education. The luncheon was held on August 7th; and in addition to Brothers Schoonover, Randell and Wherry and a very
creditable representation from our own jurisdiction, there were
present, among others, Grand Master Cattron of Utah, Grand
Master Atkinson of Nevada and Past Grand Master Fredricks
of Arizona. After addresses made by Brothers Schoonover, Randell and Wherry, there was a general discussion of the entire
question.
It was a very delightful occasion, and there was no one
present who apparently did not appreciate the opportunity offered
to personally meet these brethren of national prominence from
other jurisdictions who are so zealously and unselfishly devoting
their time and talents to the fraternity, actuated by no other
desire than to be of service to their fellow man. Candor, however, compels the statement that nothing that was developed
there, or in the private conversations I had with the brethren
referred to, converted me to the opinion they entertain, o r mate'rially influenced the views with which I had been theretofore
imbued as a result of the study I had given the subject. Those
views I may say are not influenced to any great extent by what
appears to be the primary objection generally made by those
jurisdictions which have either refused to become members of,
or which have withdrawn from membership in, the Association:

My disinclination to encourage such an o rganization is due
solely to my belief that it is thoroughly impracticable. I do
not mean by this merely that the pfan proposed is impracticable;
because the plan of course is subject to change and amendment.
I mean that it will be impracticable, if not indeed impossible,
to effectuate the purp-oses desired through any national organization. I have in mind now the only activity· of the Masonic
Service Association which (with one exception, to which I shall
refer under the head of " Recognition") particularly appeals to
me-the educational program ; because I am thoroughly satisfied that the Grand Lodge of California would never consent to
the adoption of any plan whereby its relief to another jurisdiction, in the event of a great disaster, would be made to depend
upon a survey and report of any commission of representatives
of any other Grand body. We will, I feel certain, be content to
rely upon the assurance of the Grand Master of t he particular
jurisdiction in which the disaster occurs that th~ condition warrants the acceptance of the relief which we will have offered.
The measure of that relief ·will be only their necessities and our
resources.
The program outlined by the Association for t he education
of the craft is, however, particularly alluring to those of us who
are already engaged here in California along similar lines; but
I believe it can be carried out only by the individual jurisdictions.
Our visitors were kind enough to concede that we had already
progressed far in this direction ; and that we in California were
even now doing what they· propose. In this connection the
suggestion was made that by becoming a member of the Association, the Grand Lodge of California might be of service to
other jurisdictions in helping th em to· do what we have done
even though we ourselves might not believe any great benefi;
would come to us. If there were merit to this suggestion, it
should of course appeal· very strongly to us ; and it w ould furnish
a reason why we should become thus associated with the other
member jurisdictions. I can not, however concur in the belief
which prompts that suggestion. I say ;his with . the utmost
respect for the opinion of the distinguished brother making it,
and on!~ because the statement is prompted by an intimate
knowledge of our own experience.
I believe that such progress as we have made is the result
of efforts which can not be successfully undertaken by a national
organization. Our own experience warrants the belief that no
matter how ambitiou·s may be the program which emanates from
Grand Lodge, nothing will be accomplished unless thete comes
an ·urge therefor from the subordinate L odges.

I am not greatly impressed with the fear expressed that
the sovereig~ty of our Grand Lodges will be imperiled by the
existence of such an or ganization. Indeed, so far as I am
pe'rsonally concerned, I would be erttirely willing to concede
some of 'the attributes of our individual sovereignty if convinced
that · it would redound to the interest of the fraternity as an
Institution, and in a consequent benefit to the nation. Furthermore, I h ave no apprehension that the Masonic Service Association will ever develop into a national Grand Lodge ; because I
believe that some of those who are now its most zealous advocates would be among the first to sever their connection ·with
it if there was ever any likelihood of such a development.

55

56

PROCE!l:UINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In other words, to speak in business terms, the real problem
is to create the demand and not to supply it; and still· speaking
in the terms of. business, and to use a much hackneyed phrase,
the idea must be "sold" · to the Lodges. It can not be sold
through catalogues or form letters, or even by personal correspondence. We must send salesmen, in the person of speakers
into the territory of each Lodge.
'
If a speaker could be · sent periodically into every Lodge in .
every .iurisdiction the promised land would be in sight. This,
however, we have even here in our own jurisdiction found not
merely impracticable, but virtually impossible, even with four
local units of the Committee on Masonic Education. How much
less likelihood is there then of expecting that what we have
n~t . succeeded in doing, concentrating our effort in one Jurisd1ct10n, can be done by an organization two thousand miles away
from us.

. In the last analysis, whatever is accomplished along these
Imes must be by the individual jurisdictions. It is not therefore
a question of being willi'ng through. membership in the Association to assist another jurisdiction, even though we may not
be benefited ; because what applies to · this jurisdiction applies
to each.
I believe that the most that can be done by a national
organization is to furnish encouragement and support for those
who are working in their own individual jurisdictions. I do not
underestimate the value of this, IlDr am I insensible to the
benefit; but I can not forbear saying that 1· do not believe it is
commensurate with the effort which must be made and the
expense in time and money involved. In business terms again,
the "overhead" of such an organization is too large. Further~o~e, no plan w~ich could be devised by any central organ1zat1on would satisfy 1the requirements of all the jurisdictions.
This was the mistake made by certain national organizations
engaged in war work. Some of us here in California found it
extremely difficult to convince the national organization that a
plan admirable for Connecticut was worthless in California.
I have said nothing concerning the expense inv<>lved in
membership in the Association, because I am certain that that
would not be a material factor in determining our action. If we
entertained the belief held by Brother Schoonover and his associates and by the brethren of those jurisdictions which are members of the Association, I am sure that the fact that it might
cost us four or five thousand dollars annually would not preclude
us from becoming a member of the Association. Twice that

57

amount (}udic1ously expended, of course) might be well devoted
to effect the desired end.
Impressed as I am with the importance of the aims and purposes of the Masonic Service Association, insofar as its educational program is concerned, and because I am in such absolute
and ent_ire consonance with the views which gave rise t o it, it is
with great reluctance that I find myself unable as Grand Master
to recommend that Grand Lodge become a member thereof.
Our H omes

The report which will be made by the Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California will inform Grand Lodge fully '
not only as to the physical conditions, but as well with . reference
to the finances of the corporation.
This reference to the subject is only with respect to the
administration and in appreciation of . the work done by the
Trustees.
Not merely because of my great personal interest in our
Homes, but as well because I deem it the duty of the Grand
Master, I have kept in close touch with the Board. The Trustees
have been kind enough to consider my convenience in fixing the
dates of their meetings; and I have thereby been able to meet
with the -Board both in Los Angeles and in San Francisco, and
also at Decoto and Covina. With the Grand Secretary and not
infrequently the Grand Treasurer I have also been present at
the weekly conferences held by the local members of the Board,
to which Brother Johnson also comes whenever he is in the city.
From an intimate personal knowledge thus acquired, I am
enabled to assure Grand Lodge that never have the affairs of
our Homes been more wisely and efficiently administ ered than
during the past year.
All the members of the Board have . been indefatigable in
their efforts, and it seems invidious to make special mention of
any. Upon Brother Wollenberg, however, as President of the
Board, there devolve increased responsibilities and special burdens during the interim between Board meetings; and Grand
• Lodge needs no reminde r of the great interest displayed by
Brother Spencer in our home at Covina, and of the wonderful
work he has done with our wards there. As Brother Wollenberg in the interim between Board meetings has received the
c:ounsel and advice of the Deputy Grand Master, Brother Rodden,
and the Junior Grand Warden, Brother Sherman, so has Brother
Spencer been able to confer with Brother Burke, the Senior
Grand Warden, and Brother Gist, whom I appointed to succeed

..

59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother Lawler, whose term had expired, and who• found he
could not continue to give to the work the time his inclination
prompted. Brother Gist accepted the appoin~ment at some personal sacrifice. and only at my earnest and repeated solicitation;
but the services he has rendered have justified the expectations
which prompted his appointment.
No small part of the success of the Homes is due to · the
co-operation the Board has received from Brother Hartman and
Miss Daingerfield at Decoto, and from Mrs. Miller and her assistants at Covina. No one. acquainted with the nature of the work
Brother Hartman is doing, and with the relation he bears to
the family at Decoto, can be insensible to the good fortune of
the fraternity in being able to command his services.
This year again it becomes the pleasing duty of the Grand
Master of Masons in this jurisdiction to acknowledge the fraternity's debt of gratitude to Stanford University, and particularly
to Dr. Arthur J. Ritter and his associate, Dr. Harold K. Faber
of the Department of Pediatrics. The importance of. the psychological and physical survey made at Covina each year can not
be appreciated except by one who has seen the results thereof.
It was my good .fortune this year to be able to be present during
a part of the time Dr. Ritter was conducting his examination
of the children at Covina; and notwithstanding my previous
knowledge of the work in which he was engaged it was to me a
revelation. In addition to his acknowledged ability in his chosen
profession, he has a wonderful gift of gaining the confidence,
and I think I may add the love, of little children. If our debt
of gratitude to him is ever discharged it will be only through
the satisfaction he so evidently finds in the opportunity for
service to them and to the fraternity.
The one source of regret I have in connection with the
Homes is that every Mason in the State can not be afforded
an opportunity of gaining an adequate knowledge thereof by a
personal visit.
In default of this we have adopted -the plan suggested last
year by the

taken at Decoto were made by Pacific Motion Picture Studios
at a price just sufficient to cover the cost thereof.
These pictures will be circulated throughout the jurisdiction
in accordance with the plan to be submitted at this communication by Brother Flint's Committee. In order that no Lodge
desiring to show them may be precluded by reason of local conditions from so doing, two projectors have been purchased, the
use of which will be given the Lodges desiring it.
It is not contemplated that these pictures are to be shown
in connection with any "drive" for the Endowment Fund. They
are purely educational in their nature and have been made, and
will be circulated, in order that those who have not been able
to personally visit the Homes may have some conception, even
though an inadequate one, of the nature of the work in which
the fraternity is engaged.
In conformity to what I believe to be the general desire
of the craft, I did not this year authorize any concerted effort
to increase the Endowment Fund. It is hoped, however, that
our brethren will not lose sight of the fact that these Homes
constitute the outward visible manifestations of the spirit of
Masonry; and that by .contributing to their Endowment Fund
we furnish tangible evidence of the sincerity of the professions
we make as Masons.

58

Necrology
Since our last Annual Communication four distinguished
brethren, prominent in the affairs of Grand Lodge, have gone
to join those silent voyagers
"Sailing away
To the Mystic Isles, where at anchor lay
The crafts of those who have sailed before
O'er the Unknown Sea to the Unknown Shore."

0

Endowment Committee
At the suggestion of Past Grand Master Motley H. Flint,
the Chairman of this Committee, and in accordance with the
recommendation made by him last year, a motion picture of
the Homes has been produced, illustrating the lif.e both at Covina
and Decoto. The pictures of Covina were made without any
expense whatever to the fraternity and through the generosity
of the Robert Brunton Studios of Los Angeles. The pictures

The first of these four to answer to the call of the Kind
Messenger was James Bau'nty Stevens, who died December 6th,
1919. For many years he had been active in Masonic work, and
at the Annual Communication in 1894 w;;is elected Grand Master.
Grand Lodge was convened in special session for the purpose of
conducting the funeral services over his remains.
James Wright Anderson died February 9th1 1920. He was
Grand Lecturer in 1888, 1889 and 1890; was the author of Anderson's Manual, and was ·rated one of the leading educators of
California.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Matthew S. Hughes passed to his reward April 4th, 1920.
As Grand Orator in 1915 he presented one of the best addresses
ever delivered in Grand Lodge. Our brother at the time of his
death was a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, with
headquarters at Portland, Oregon. He died at Cleveland while
on a speaking tour. Bishop Hughes was a tower of moral strength
and the good influence of his life will be long felt.
George Perrin Adams, Grand Tiler since 1898, died April 4th,
1920. He was known to all the present generation of brethren
and was loved by all who came ·in contact with him. His funeral
service was also conducted by Gran_d Lodge convened for thaf
purpose.
Suitable services in memory of these brethren will be held
in this Hall Wednesday afternoon.
Other jurisdictions report the loss of Past Grand Masters
and other elective officers, as follows:

Pennsylvania-William · Luther Gorgas, Grand Master 1912,
died January 31, 1920; J . Henry W illiams, Grand Master 1914,
died October 24, 1919..
Philippines-Elisha Ward Wilbur, Senior Grand Deacon, died
October 12, 1919.
South Dakota-Charles Hill, Grand Master 1901, died June
16, 1920.
Texas-W alter Acker, Grand Master 1910, died April 18, 1920.
Virginia-Philip Kuszner Bauman, Grand Master 1914, died
April 25, 1920.
.
Washington-Royal Amenzo Gove, Grand Master 1908. died
January 21, 1920.
West Virginia-Kephart Delwar Walker, Grand Master 1875,
died September 11, 1919; John Harper Riley, Grand Master 1881,
died July 27, 1919; George W. Feldt, Grand Master 1894, died
May 11. 1919.

Alabama-John Hollis Bankhead, Grand Master 1883-85,
October 24, 1919.
Colorado-William David Todd, Grand Master 1888, died
October 24, 1919; Clarence Melville Kellogg, Grand Master 1919,
died October 27, 1919.
Idaho-Charles Himrod, Grand Master 1879, died January
26, 1920; Samuel Blythe Connelly, Grand Master 1870, died March
13, 1920.
Iowa-Henry W. Rothert, Grand Master 1875, died January.
29, 1920.
Indiana-Calvin Wesley Prather, Grand Secretary, died August
1, 1920.
.
Louisiana-} ohn Stanley Thibaut, Grand Master 1911, died
February 12, 1920.
Manitoba-George Black, Past Grand Master, died November 9, 1919.
Minnesota-Albert Berg, Grand Master 1917, died February
13, 1920.
Mississippi-Edwin J. Martin, Grand Master 1908, died November 24, 1919; Frederic Gordon Speed, Grand Secretary, died
October 19, 1919.
Missouri-Arthur Middleton Hough, Grand Master 1895, died
July 3, 1920.
Nebraska-}. Newton Wise, Past Grand Secretary, died July
8, 1920.
North Dakota-James T. Blacklock, Grand Master 1903, died
November 26, 1919.

Sister Jurisdictions
As was of course only right and proper, I have been particularly careful ·to permit nothing to be done that could possibly
imperil the extremely friendly relations which exist with all our
sister jurisdictions.
It has been a great pleasure to comply with such requests
as have been made by Grand Masters of other jurisdictions to
have degrees conferred in our jurisdiction for their Lodges; and
the same courtesy has been extended us whenever requested.
The only definite complaint made against us by a sister
jurisdiction was satisfactorily adjusted.
Nevada-Complaint was made by the Grand Master of Nevada that our Golden State Lodge No. 358 had elected to membership R. W. Robinson, a petitioner claimed to be the material
of Montezuma Lodge No. 30 of Nevada. The matter was brought
to the attention of the latter Lodge by a request made by Golden
State Lodge to confer the Fellow Craft and Master Mason degrees
upon the candidate in question.
I immediately caused an investigation to be made and arrived
at the conclusion that while our Golden State Lodge was without
fault in the matter, there was justification for the claim made
by the Grand Master of Nevada.
At the time Robinson presented his petition to G.o lden State
Lodge he stated he had been a resident of California for over
ten years, but had spent much of his time in other States; that
he had been transferred · by his employer from Los Angeles to
Goldfield, Nevada, and after remaining there about t wo years
had returned to Los Angeles, " this being my home."

61

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF '!'HE

It further appeared, however, that at the time his petition
was presented he had actually resided in Los Angeles for only
six months. In taking the matter up with the Grand Master
of Nevada I explained to him that this was one of those embarrassing cases which occasionally arise as a result of our construing the question of residence with reference to "the union
of act and intent." Although I had no doubt that Golden State
Lodge had acted honestly and conscientiously in the matter, I
was compelled to admit that if Robinson while in Goldfield had
petitioned for the degrees in Nevada, claiming that place as his
residence, no one of our Lodges would have just cause for complaint; and that under the circumstances, and particularly in view
.of the fact that Robinson had resided in Los Angeles for
only six months at the time his petition was presented, and that
for more than two years prior thereto he had been continuously
in Nevada, I was disposed to adopt any suggestion he might
make.
Some delay ensued, owing to the fact that the Grand Master
of Nevada had been unable, it appears, to confer with his
brethren of Montezuma Lodge, but I was subsequently advised
of his belief that Montezuma Lodge No. 30 might "rightfully
claim Robinson as their material and also the total amount of
fees as usual." This information was communicated to our Golden
State Lodge, the Master of which had previously informed me
that such a settlement would be entirely satisfactory to his
Lodge; and in acknowledging the receipt of the letter of Grand
Master Parks I 's uggested that further correspondence be between
our respective Lodges, and that the matter be adjusted by them to
their mutual satisfaction.
•
Having had no further word concerning the matter and desiring to know the result thereof to report to Grand Lodg.e, I
communicated with the Master of Golden State Lodge. He replied that he had received no answer to a letter he had written
Montezuma Lodge, and that Robinson had returned to Los Angeles, intending to reside there permanently. I instructed him
that he should nevertheless remit to Montezuma Lodge the total
fee which Montezuma Lodge would have received had Robinson
been elected to membership in that Lodge; and that the candidate should not be given his degrees until the consent of Nevada
had been received.
Illinois-A sense .of propriety necessitates a reference in
this Message to a matter which was presumably closed at our
communication in 1918, the report of which, on page 228 of our
Proceedings of that year, has placed the Grand Lodge of Illinois
in a falje position.

63

The matter came to my knowledge with the receipt by the
Grand Secretary from the Grand Master of Illinois of a check
for $252.20, together with a letter conveying a very plain intimation that an injustice had been done the Grand Lodge of Illinois.
On examining the proceedings I found that the Grand Master
of Illinois was not without some justification for his feelings
in the matter. A fair inference from the statement in our Pro!
ceedings would be that the Grand Lodge of Illinois did not
purpose compelling its Gothic 'Lodge to reimburse our El Centro
Lodge for expenses incurred in the relief of one of its members,
Brother Todd, and had ignored a communication from Brother
Whicher to the Grand Secretary of Illinois.
The facts appear to be substantially as follows: A controversy had arisen between . Gothic Lodge of Illinois and our El
Centro Lodge as to the amount which had been· expended for
the relief of Brother Todd, due to a misapprehension upon the
part of Gothic Lodge. Not being able to obtain reimbursement
from Gothic Lodge, our El Centro Lodge had taken the matter
up with our Grand Secretary. He wrote not to the Grand Secretary of Illinois, but to Grand Master Scro gin. No acknowledgment of the receipt of that letter was made; but it appears that
the matter was taken up by Grand Master Scrogin with Gothic
Lodge; and an investigation was being made while our Grand
Lodge was in session. The matter was referred by the Grand
Master to Deputy Grand Master Fitzgerrell, now Grand Master,
who thereafter referred it back to the Grand Master because he
believed it necessary for the correspondence to come through
his office. Shortly thereafter Brother Scrogin died, and in cleaning up the papers which had come to him from his predecessor,
Grand Master Fitzgerrell found this, with other matters. He
immediately communicated with with the Master of Gothic Lodge
to ascertain if the case had ever been adjusted. Learning it
had not, he gave the matter his attention, and after "a long and
extended investigation of this case" advised Gothic Lodge to pay
the bill. This was done and the result thereof was the sending
of the check first referred to.
When the check was received I was out of the city; and
Brother Whicher, because of the circumstances under which it
had been sent, in acknowledging the receipt of the check suggested that with the consent of the · Grand Master it would be
returned. I was, however, unable to concur with that suggestion
because as I stated in my letter to Grand Master Fitzgerrell I did
not believe that the Grand Lodge of Illinois would be willing
to accept it except upon the theory which would preclude me
from offering it-and th;1t was that the claim of El Centro Lodge.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF °CALIFORNIA

was not a just one; and that I did not believe that the Grand Lodge
of Illinois would permit the Grand Lodge of California, however
willing it might be to do so, to bear a burden which should be
assumed by Gothic Lodge.
In my letter I expressed my very great regret . that any
warrant · was even inadvertently given for the idea that the Grand
Lodge of California ever believed that the Grand Lodge of Illinois
was derelict in any of its duties or delinquent in any of its obligations; and I explained that I personally knew the converse to ·
be true, because as one of the Trustees for many years of the
Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco I had personal knowledge of the fact that there was no jurisdiction in the United States
more willing and ready than Illinois to comply in spirit as well
as in letter with its obligations.
It is also proper to say in justice to Gothic Lodge that the
entire correspondence not only with our El Centro Lodge but as
well between that Lodge and the Grand Master of Illinois· (with
which I was furnished) makes it evident that the position that
Lodge took was due to a misapprehension of the facts. On
the othet hand, El Centro Lodge had just cause for complaint and
for its suspicions in the matter, because of certain criticisms
made of its actions by Gothic Lodge, to which I ·called the attention of Grand Master Fitzgerrell.
It happened that I had just returned from a visit to the
Imperial Valley; and speaking of the brethren of El Centro Lodge
whom I had had the pleasure of meeting, I was able to assure
the Grand Master of Illinois that nowhere are there to be found
better men, or Masons more thoroughly imbued with the teachings of our fraternity and more ready and willing to discharge
the duties and responsibilities ·devolving upon them.
I had a splendid letter from Grand Master Fitzgerrell in
reply to my letter to him, in which, among other things, h.e
stated that in the letter written me he had no intention of criticizing our El Centro Lodge, but, borrowing an expression I had
used, he was rather writing in defense of his own brethren than for
the purpose of ~riticizing our El Centro l.odge.
I make this extended explanation not merely to justify the
Grand Lodge of Illinois to the Grand Lodge of California, but
as well that other jurisdictions to which knowledge of this matter
may co.me, may understan'd that not only does Illinois not permit any of its Lodges to evade payment of any of its obligations,
but that California understands this to be the fact.

65

York Grand Lodge of Mexico
It will be re~_embered that in 1902 (Proc. 1902, p. 735-9) we
extended rec?gmhon to the Gran Logia Valle de Mexico. It
ap~ears that m 1910 there was a schism concerning the details of
which there are conflicting statements.
We were advised that in 1911 the body fro~ whi~h certain
Lodges h~d seceded and which had continued to be known as
Gran Logia Valle de Mexico had chang'ed its name to York Grand
Lodge; and under that name it was, at least tacitly, recognized
th~ ?rand Lodge of California as well as by other American
JUrtsd1cttons.
It is now claimed that the York Grand Lodge . was 'not the
regula~ ~uccessor of the Gran Logia Valle de Mexico and· that
the ortgmal body has continued its existence.
That cont~oversy will probably come before Grand Lodge in
the _form of a request for recognition from each of the contendi~g
bo~1es. I make no further reference to the matter except insofar
as is ne.c essary in connection with a complaint made to my predecessor, Past Grand Master Webster, by the Grand Master of York
Grand Lodge of Mexico with respect to the actions of Brother
Ernest Forbes, a member of our California Lodge No t
I ·1
in the city of Mexico.
· • w 11 e

?Y.

. . The facts in that connection sufficiently appear in the subJOmed letter which I present in full, not merely for that reason,
but as well because the other American jurisdictions, I understand,
have h~d the matter ~ailed to their attention and I desire them to ·
be advised of the·act1on taken by the Grand Master of California
and of the reasons therefor.
M. W. SIDNEY ULFELDER,
Grand Master York Grand Lodge of .Mexico
City of Mexico, Mexico.
'
Most Worshipful Sir:

June 17, 1920.

Your letter of April 21 addressed to my predecessor M W B d
ford Web.~ter, was recei".ed while I was on a visit to ~ur' Lodge~a i~ ·
!he ~faw~11an Islands. Smee my return I have been so busily enga ed
m d1sposmg of matters which accumulated in my absence that I h~v
only now been able ~o complete the investigation which I deemed
necessary before replying to your communication This "ll
for the delay.
.
·
w1 account
!n complaining of Brother Ernest Forbes, a member of our California Lodge No. 1, you charge (among other things):
.
''.That he came int? this jurisdiction (yours), the same being m fraternal relation with the jurisdiction to which he

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

66

d
·h t
nt or authority from any
owes allegiance, an • wit ou t w~r~~ take cognizance of the
symbolic Grand b_ody GcomdeL~ndge did attack and by devious
status of a Sovereign Jan .
nd destroy the very foundamethods attempt to un ermme a
f M . "
ex1co,
tions of this M. W. York Grand Lodge o
.
and after the statement of the charges you say:
"We concede the right to any. Grandd Lo?ghe, wh1c~ o:~
.
I
to bring to tnal an pums any o
"It
f acts of un-Masonic conduct
recogmze as regu ar,b
· H
er we are
members who may e gui Y •0 · · ·
1
while sojourn!ng wit~in its JUG~~~ :tL~dge ~:V1~g 'the right
aware that tMh1s doctn;nthe. of it~ 1" urisdiction is not universally
to try any
ason w1 m
.
.
h"
tter
d
H
before taking final action m t is ma . ,
ebnc~,t the question to you for a full express10n
accepte .
we beg to su m1
. . · ·
th" po1"nt and
h
.
h Id by your iunsd1ct1on on
is
•
~tfsee uv:e:ss toe whCethl.efr t~e tLr~~g~f o~hiby b:ot:d::oi~d t~~
conducted by the a 1 orma
·
jurisdiction."
ur Grand Lodge .has been advised
h
You are ofGcou~er:idare oi ~e~ico is not the legitimate succes.s or
that the York ran
ge
d A
ted Masons Valle de Mexico,
of. the G!and LoggJ of treJ f~to f~~;~rnal relations; and that it . is
with which we a en ere
r tacit recognition of your claim
claimed by the latte~ body tha\~u and in ignorance of the real facts.
was given 1:1n~er a m1sapprehens1d I would not ass~me to exercise the
It is not. w1t~m. my provu:~ce, at0 determine which of 'the contendi.ng
prerogative if .1t 'Yere i:rune,
co nition That is a matter which
bodies in Mex1~0 is entitled Jo r~ Codge. ·and nothing 'I may herein
must be determmed by our . r~·~ation of' a recognition of the justice
say is to ~e conrr!-l~d as fan ~r I Grand bodies in the unfortunate conof the .claim~ 0 eit er 0 yo f Mexico is involved.
dition m wh1chhthe :asonJ'.t0n exists together with other facts and
The fact t at. t IS con. 1
. · n' has disclosed, renders it excircumsta~ces which my mvesugatio my views with reference to the
tremely difficult for me to express
I am of the opinion that
11
conduct of Brother Forbes. ~e;:;J ?Y Brother Forbes, his action
even though ~hd. factst abe a~s~ lt must be admitted that he was, ~s
was at least m 1scr~e • eca
t or authority from any Symbolic
charged by you, w1t~otut t~~r~~~nizance of the status of a Sovereign
.
ro er course would have been to
Grand body compete~ 0
Gra;nd ~odge.
bel:rLodh!t (~~d Pthi other American. Grat?d Lodges
advise his. own ranh
gd"f
of Masonry in Mexico, mstead of
if he desired) of t e .con I wn e contending bodies while sojourning
espousin_g the cauM of e1tre~~fa~other jurisdiction. Fairness to him,
ason r
belief that in all his actions he was
in Mexico as a
however, demandb tha~ I s~ated m~ed to be for the best interests of
influenced only. Y w at e eed never met him; but I had known
Masonry. Until last wee~ I hMason who has given liberally of his
of him as an earnest, ~ea dus cement of the craft and as one who
time and means for t. e a Ivan ell informed concerning the condition
· upposed to be parttcu1ar Y w
.
~f sMasonry in MeJ<ico and Central Amenca.

b

67

While I am convinced of the good faith of Brother Forbes, you
will observe that I do not attempt to justify his action; and had he
been brought to trial and disciplined upon charges preferred against
him while he was resident in your jurisdiction I would have feh
constrained to take cognizance of the verdict and judgment.
The Grand Lodge of California claims penal jurisdiction over all
Masons residing in our territory; and we of course concede the
corresponding right to any Grand Lodge which we recognize as regular
to discipline any of our members residing in its jurisdiction. It is to
be noted, however, that the offending Mason must be "resident in such
jurisdiction." I am not prepared to say that we would take any action
upon a judgment rendered in a foreign jurisdiction upon a trial of
charges preferred against one of our members who did not at the
time the charges were preferred reside in that jurisdiction for acts
committed while sojourning therein. That would depend, I apprehend, upon the circumstances of the particular case. In this connection
it is to be noted that you do not say at which time the acts complained
of were committed. It does appear, however, from the edict issued
by M. W . Stephen Motta that it must have been prior to the first
day of December, because that was the date upon which Forbes was
suspended; and in the remarks of the Grand Master in Toltec Lodge
he stated (in addressing Forbes) : "You have been busy now for
several months in this jur~sdiction, but tonight you will stop."
Your communication to my predecessor is dated April 21, 1920;
and I am informed by Brother Forbes that he did not leave your
jurisdiction until April 18-three days before the date of your letter.
If this be the fact it appears that Brother Forbes was in your jurisdiction for nearly five months (four months and twenty-one days)
after the edict against him was issued by Grand Master Motta, in
which edict it is stated:
"A committee will be appointed, and when the evidence
is in form you will be summoned to appear before them to
show cause why you should not be forever expelled from
further participating in the rights and privileges of Free
Masonry."
If during the time he was residing in your jurisdiction charges
had been preferred against Brother Forbes, and after trial he had been
suspended or expelled for un-Masonic conduct, it would be the duty
of the Junior Warden of his Lodge under our law to prefer charges
against him for the acts and conduct alleged in the charges preferred
in your jurisdiction and of which he was there convicted. Of course
our law is predicated upon the assumption that the Grand Lodge
claiming penal jurisdiction is regular in its organization and was so
recognized by us. The question of its regularity, validity, legitimacy
and recognition would therefore be open to inquiry as a part of the
defense made by the accused.
It appears, however, that during the · time Brother Forbes was a
resident in your jurisdiction, your proceeding against him was limited
to the issuance of an edict of the Grand Master suspending him with
certain other brethren named without trial; and you now desire to
know "before taking final action in the matter, whether the trial of
this brother should be conducted by California Lodge or by a Lodge
in this (your) jurisdiction."

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THl!l

d" courteous if I decline to make a
I trust you will not deem !11e
do so would imply that I was
categorical reply to youF q~est1~~~ be~n guilty of un-.Mas?nic h~mhduh!
convinced that Brother _or es
as to the jurisdiction in w ic t
and that the only question tasd
id I am not in any way 3:ttemp should be tried. As I hdave a
~t~r 'Forbes while he was .1r: your
in to justify the con uct o
r
a have been his op1mon as
ju~isdiction. ~ believhe ~atk wd1::~deLodg~ of Mexico, he should have
to the regularity of t e ~ir •
b d under that name has never
recognized the fact th.at while ~habr~nJ Lodge of California, it has
been expressly recogmdedhbf i~ ~as the legitimate successor o~ t~e
been generally assume t a . .
d as such was deemed to
in
Grand Lodge Valle ~e Mexico an Lod e of California. I am no.t,
fraternal relations with dth~ ~~:~dhe ha~ been guilty of un-Masontc
however, prepared to a m1t
.
conduct.
·
.
b d of Masons has deemed ~t n.ec~s·
I regret exceedingly thll;t any f ~ kason belonging to this. Juns~1c·
sary to complain of thhe lactio~i·;ed to you for your court~sy. in calling
proceeding as you intimate you
tion; but I am nevert e e~s o bt f
the matter to my attention e ore
purpose doing.
With my kind perso.nal regards,
Fraternally yours,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
Grand Master.
. d by me to that 1et t er'. a nd I have
receive
b th York Grand
N o re Ply was ever if
anything was done y
e
no ·knowledge of what
Lod.ge of Mexico.
h
with the charges and such
. to the controversy
All correspo'ndence, toget er
. d
atter as appertain
f h
pamphlets and printe ~
b dies are in the possession o t e
between the two contend1ngdiso ositlon as to Grand Lodge may
Grand Secretary for such
p
seem meet and proper.
Recognition
h
.
h as ar rived when t e
r
e
that
the
time
I can not but b e iev
d something more than
"universality of M asonry " must be ma e

IT

rB

an empty phrase.
an extraordinary anomaly that
It had always seemed to me b i·
that "in every country
h
itiate to e ievc
.
ns to be found," we assumed a pos1while we taug~t t e nov
and in every clime are Masbo . 1 . ally deduced that there are no
h
. h "t would e ogic
tion from w h ic I
.
South America or anyw ere
Masons in Continental Europe or m their descent from the Grand
else where the Lodges c·a n not trache we applied that test it was
d (Of course w en
.
d
Lodge of Eng 1an .
.
as to those Grand Bodies we o
with a mental reservation. .
!though they do not so trace
. as regular and legitimate, a
recognize
their genealogy.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

69

It was with that idea in mind, and not because I was influenced by the "hysteria of war," that in 1917 I introduced th~
resolution providing for the appointment of a committee to repe>rt
some plan whereby the breach between French and Anglo-Saxon
Masonry might be healed, and which resulted in the action taken
by Grand Lodge the following year.
We have now materially modified the principles enunciated
by Grand Lodge in 1913 as a test for recognition, by restricting
the applicati.o n thereof to Grand Lodges of English-speaking
countries. We have adopted a policy which we believe is in
consonance with the spirit of the age, which looks to substance
rather than to form; and every application from a Grand Body
in any other than an English-speaking country will now be considered upon its merits w.i th relation to the situation of the
applicant and with a view of doing full and complete Masonic
justice. That we have done so much makes it necessary that we
shall do more-not merely that we may not withhold recognition
. where it should be granted, but as well (and which is certainly
not less important) that we shall not unwittingly grant it where
it should be withheld.
As a result of the investigation I felt compelled to make
before answering the complaint of the York Grand Lodge of
Mexico, I am convinced that it will be extremely difficult, if not
indeed impossible, to arrive at a proper understanding of the real
condition of Masonry in Mexico, and therefore to do "full and
complete Masonic justice."
·
In considering the question of the recognition of the Grand
Bodies in France, Belgium and Italy we could proceed intelligently. That queittion had been discussed for years. The facts
which had been collated and the arguments which had been made
pro and con were easily accessible. It was only necessary to
formulate our co.nclusion. Here, however, is a controversy between
tw.o contending bodies, each claiming recognition as against the
other, and each basing its claim on a disputed contention, and
with reference to a condition not generally known.
Insofar as the action to be taken by Grand Lodge is concerned,
the situation would not be materially better, if indeed it would not
be worse, if an application were made by a Grand Body in one of
the South American States where there was no controversy. In
that case the statements upon which our action would be predicated would be purely ex-flaYte ,· and we might accept them as true
only to find later that we had been misled, intentionally or unintentio.nally, as to the real condition.
We ought to know the condition o(Masonry in every country
-not merely that we can act intelligently upon any claim for

70

PROCEEDINGS OF '.rHE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

recognition that may be presented, but that we may . encourage
and foster fraternal relations where they should exi~t.. Now
while we have brethren in Grand Lodge upon whose o~m1ons we
mi ht safely rely if they would devote to the. task the ~1me ne.c essarg to make a thorough investigation, there i.s no
provided
.m Y.
·
·
d"
t"on
through
which
such
an
mvestigat10n
our JUrtS IC I
.
. •
h" h can bet
d there are many American jurisdictions w 1c are no
d. .
ma e, an
.
·
th t
Id be
any more fortunately situated. Here 1s a service
a cou
1l performed by a national organization. The same result
:oeuld be obtained, however, by a committee composed of. repre.
f m such of the American Grand Lodges as 1mght be
sentat1ves ro
.
d d · would not
·1r to engage in such an undertaking.
In ee it
necessary to have each jurisdiction
on that
committee or in a conference called for that purpose, becau.se the
rimar function of such a cpmmittee would be to ~btam the
facts [ud present them for such action as the
Grand
Lod-ges might desire to take. It might be advisable m some
instances to make a recommendation; but no Grand Lo~ge would ·
be legally or morally bound to adopt the recommendat10n. T~e
only liability devolving upon any Grand Lodge, party to t .e
ment would be to meet its share of the expense. All this
arrange
'
d
· 't
f the
1·s o f course w ithin the scope of the propose
·b·i· achv1
f 't Y o
Ma.sonic Service Association; but the proba 1 1t~ ? 1 s ac~~mplishment by that organization in the near future 1s 1.n my optnion
t
remote (because of the immensity of the task 1t has set for
to warrant our acceptance of membership with that.
tation. I think it can be otherwise, and far more. exped1t10usly
and economically effected.
I make · no recommendation with referef!ce to .the n:atter.
·
h owever, 1"t should receive the earnest consideration
of
I believe,
. .
Grand Lodge; and I suggest that it .be referred for the JOmt c~n­
sideration of the Committees on Jurisprudence a~d General Policy
and Purposes, with a request for a recommendation.

~ed~a

::e~n~e

represe~ted

re.spechv~

i~s~lf)

~xpec­

Our Inspectors
The service that is being rendered by some of our Inspec~ors
is of such inestimable value that too much. credit can not be given
th
Realizing that they possess special kno~ledge of local
of which the Grand Master is naturally .ignorant, I have
ver gratefully availed myself of every opportunity ~resented to
Y. sugg est'ions from them·' and I have been especially pleased
receive
f
rom
1"th the annotations made by some of them on the reports
Lodges · which were transmitted through them.
The Inspectors constitute the link between Grand Lodge and
the Lodges of their respective districts; and those to whom I refer

co~~ltions
~ eir

71

are not unmindful of the fact that they represent the Grand
Master as well as the Grand Lecturer. They realize that their
duty is not fully performed by merely teaching th.e esoteric work;
but that upon them devolves the responsibility of seeing that the
Constitution and Edicts of Grand Lodge are maintained and supported and that the plans promulgated by the Grand Master are
carried out so far as the circumstances will permit. · If any of
those I have in mind have failed to do all that they would like to
do,· I am quite certain it has not been for lack of an earnest effort.
It has, however, become apparent that with the growth of the
jurisdiction, and particularly since the adoption of our plan of
Masonic education, to fully and properly discharge all the functions of an Inspector is more than can be reasonably expected
of any one individual.
The natural and inevitable result has been that those Inspectors
to whom the ritual seems of supreme importance are inclined to
give to that all, or at least the greater part of, the time they are
able to devote to the discharge of their duties ; while on the other
hand those who recognize the real potentialities of the office of
Inspector are sometimes inclined to begrudge the amount of theit
time which is consumed in teaching the esoteric work.
In a report from one of the. most capable of our Inspectors
the opinion is expressed that " not only the educational movement
but also the standing of the Order could be improved here (in
his District) and possibly elsewhere in the State if the Inspector
were relieved of the duty of instructing in the ritual and holding
schools of instruction by having that work apportioned to some
other officer, or to an assistant who would be responsible to the
Grand Master."
This opinion, which is shared by other Inspectors with w.h om
I have discussed the matter in my visits throughout the Jurisdiction, warrants my suggesting to Grand Lodge an idea which had
occurred to me but which I hesitated to express because it involves
a radical change in our entire system.
I believe, however, that the change I have in mind would not
only be of material assistance in our educational movement and
furnish further evidence to the community of the worth o.f our
Ins.t itution (as was suggested by the Inspector referred to), but
would result in an increased proficiency in the esoteric work.
I have discovered that on account of physical conditions it is
practically impossible in some districts for even the most indefatigable Inspector to -give to all the officers of his Lodges the
time which is required to make them proficient in the work; and
that in many Lodges the officers are compelled to rely upon such
assistance as they receive from their Past Masters. The same

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

reasons which preclude the Inspector from visiting the Lodges as
often as he would like to do, likewise render it impracticable, if
not impossible, for all the officers of the Lodge to attend such
schools of instruction as are held by the Inspector. In many of
our Districts the vocation of the officers is such that during the
summer it is extremely difficult for them to devote any considerable portion of their time to Masonry; while in winter the condition
of the roads and the inclemency of the weather practically isolate
their Lodges. Considering all these things, it has occurred · to
me that not only should the duties now incumbent upon the
Inspectors be divided, but that the office itself would be better
abolished; and that in lieu thereof we provide for Deputy Grand
Lecturers and District Deputy Grand Masters.
The Deputy Grand Lecturers could be appointed by the Grand
Lecturer, and might include any Master or Past Master. who could
attain such proficiency in the work as would entitle him to a
certificate from the Grand Lecturer; it being understood of course
that there would not be more than one Deputy Grand Lecturer
in any Lodge.
This would make it possible to have in every community,
however small, some one thoroughly proficient in the r itual and
able to instruct · the officers. It would likewise relieve the Grand
Lecturer of a part of the constantly increasing burden under
which he is now staggering. Instead of being compelled to visit
every remote hamlet, he could confine his work to holding district schools of instruction at' which the presence of all the Deputy
Grand Lecturers in that District would be required. While the
officers of any Lodge would be of course privileged to attend,
the primary purpose would be to afford the Deputy Grand Lecturers an opportunity of "checking up" with the. Grand Lecturer;
and a failure of any Deputy Grand Lecturer to attend the meeting
held in his District without a satisfactory excuse would be warrant for the withdrawal. of his certificate, and the appointment of
another in his place.

would make available the service of some of the ablest and most
influential Masons in the State for w hom there is no plac.e under
our . present system. They are leaders in the civic life of their
communities ; but the very reaso ns wh ich make them such preclude
th.em fro m g iving to the esoteric work (even were they so inclined) the time which it requires. They served as Masters of
the~r Lodg~s in their youth, and before larger affairs engaged
the~r attention. They are vitally in terested in the problems with
wh1c? the world today is pregnant and are eagerly seeking their
solution. If they have not devoted to Masonry the t im e a nd effort
they are willing to expend in that search, it is only because
the way has not been pointed out t o them. This will be their
opportunity.

72

The District Deputy Grand Master would have no concern
with the esoteric work; but would discharge the other duties now
devolving up on the Inspectors. H e would be appointed by the
Grand Master, report to him and be his special representative.
Unless other provision were made therefor, the work of the Committee on Masonic Education in his District would be carried on
through him.
'
While many of those now serving as Inspectors would naturally be appointed District Deputy Grand Masters (unless they had
a preference for the esoteric work) the creation of t hat office

73

While I personally have no doubt of the wisdom of such a
change in our system, I make no specific recom mendation concerning it. . Furthermore I .do not believe it should be hurriedly
made or without due consideratio n. I . do believe, however it
should .receive immediaote cn·nsiderat io n ; and I t herefore sug~est
the entire matte~ be referred to the Committee on General Policy
and Purposes with a request fo r a r ecommendation thereon.
Public Schools Week
The crisis co nfronting the Public Schools of America furnished
an opportunity for a practical application of the views I have so
often expressed concerning the duty devolving upon the Fraternity.
A g~eat danger was threatening an I nstitution in which we are
all vitally interest ed as citizens o f t he Commonwealt h and which
has always been t he especial concern of the Masonic' F raternity.
T hat danger would be averted if· the A merican people were aroused
from. ~he apathy due solely to a lack of knowledge of existing
conditions. Here was a concret e inst ance o f the good which could
be ~ccomplished by having our brethren in formed and advised in
their Lodges co ncerning a matt er which might not be otherwise
brought . to the ir a ttention.
. · I therefor.e issued a Pr~clamation (a copy of w hich appears
m the appendi x hereto) setting aside the week commencing Septe~ ber ~7t.h .as P ublic Schools W eek in the Masonic L odges in
this Jurisdiction and expressing the desire of the Grand Master
that some phase. of the ques~ions affect ing the Public School Sys.tern would be discussed durmg that week in every L odge in the
Jurisdiction.
·
·
The result was extremely gr atifying. I h ave received repor ts
from all over the State and there was apparently an almost universal compliance with the desire expressed in the P roclamat ion.

75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In the large majority of instances joint meetings· were held to
which the families of the brethren were invited. Public educators
everywhere gave their earnest co-operation. Incidentally I m~y
say that they have been loud in their praise of what the · Masomc
Fraternity in California has accomplished for the public schools
of the Nation and of this State in awakening the public generally
no less than the Craft itself to a realization of existing conditions.
We must now be extremely careful to permit nothing to be
done which may possibly militate against the great good which
has been accomplished. There are in the Fraternity as well as
out of it earnest, zealous, loyal friends of the Public School. S~s­
tem whose views do not in their erttirety find support in the principles upon which our Institution is based; and it must be clearly
understood that they do not, and 'can not, speak for the Craft.
The position of Masonry with reference to the Public Schools
is unambiguous, certain and definite.. It was admirably stated by
Brother Theodore Roosevelt when he said:

to Masonry. He is no fri~nd of either the Fraternity or the Public Schools who attempts to create an impression to the contrary;
and no thought ful and well informed Mason will say or do anything which will lend support to such an attempt. It was no doubt
with some such thought in mind that Theodore Roosevelt in speaking' of the members of a society of the sort to which I have referred said: "They are the worst foes of our public .school system
because they strengthen the hands ·o f its ultramontane enemies."
It was Brother Roosevelt's sterling Americanism which made him
such a zealous Mason. He was s.peaking of Americanism as . he
understood it; but in expressing his views as an American he was
enunciating Masonry's position with relation to the Public Schools.

74

"We stand unalterably in ·favor of the Public School
System in its entirety. · We believe that Engli.sh and no
other language is that in which· the school exercises should
be conducted.
"We are against any division of the school fund ~nd
against any appropriati?n of public m~~ey for sectarian
purposes. We are agamst any recogmt10n. whatever ~y
the State in any shape or form of State aided .par,oc~1al
schools: But we are equally oppos~d to any d1scnmmation against or for a man because of his .creed. We dema_nd
that all citizens, Protestant and Cathohc, Jew and . Gentile,
shall have fair treatment in every way; that all ahke shall
have their rights guaranteed them.
.
.
"The very reasons that m~ke us unquahfied m our
opposition to State aided parochial schools ~ake us equally
bent that 'in the management of our pubhc schools the
adherents of each creed shall be give? ex~c~ and eg~al·
justice, wholly without re.gard to their religious aff1h.ations; that trustees, superm~endents, teachers and pupils
all alike shall be treated without any reference w hatsoever to the creed they profess."
There are thousands of good, loyal, patriotic American citizens who, are as firm friends of the Public Schools as are we; but
whose religion is of that Church which is opposed to our system
of public education. · We want them particularly to understand
that no more than they themselves, are we. opposed to those of
their faith merely because we are firmly .resolved to uphold and
support the Public School System which the.ir Ch~rch conden:ns.
The Masonic Fraternity has no connection with any Society
or Association which proscribes an individual because of his creed;
and the principles of any such organization . are utterly foreign

Condition of the Craft
Our Growth.-This has been an extraordinary year. W het.l ier
or not it has been attended with success it is too soon yet to determine. Our growth has been phenomenal. Twenty new Lodges
have been formed and over eleve-n thousand new members have
been added to our rolls. The loss haSI been ,comparatively small
and our net gain has been nearly nine thousand. These figures
are quoted without any personal exultation-not merely because
the\ growth of the Fraternity in any one year is in n o sense· attrib11table to the administration of the particular Grand Master
in office ; but as well because of the fact that I am not altogether
certain that the condition warrants any exultation.

I do not mean to imply by this that there has been a · disposition upon the part of the Lodges, to consider quantity rather than
quality; but there is an ever recurring doubt in my mind as to
the healthfulness of such a growth. I know that our new members have not this year received the instruction they ought to have
received, and whicb they would have received had the time of the
officers not been so fully occupied in conferring" degrees. I fear
that not many have had sufficiently impressed upon them th~ ·fact
that with their admission to the Fraterrtity there devolved" upon
them duties ana responsibilities which they' mus't• faithfully . discharge · to justify the · confidence ·we have reposed in them;' that
·they must be better fathers, sons, husbands and brothers-and better citizens; that in their· business transactions they must deal
1
absohitely "on the square"-not merely with the' Craft but with
all with whom they do business; that they must in short make
their Masonry a part of their every day lives. O f cpurse those
are the lessons the ritual and the charges . teach; and perhaps ·they
"heard with understanding" and gave due heed to the words pronounced by the officers "trippingly on the tongue."

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Generally speaking, the increase in membership has been in
the large centers of population and in the growing communities.
There arc, however, districts in the Jurisdiction where the Lodge~
are continually growing weaker. Some of our mining districts
where Masonry in earlier days flourished so vigorously ar~ being
gradually depopulated and the Lodges are in a moribund condition. I was at one time in accord with the opinion which has
been expressed by some of niy predecessors that unless a number
of consolidations were effected the more drastic measure of arresting the charters of some of these Lodges would become necessary;
but after having visited with these brethren, and observed the spirit
with which they are animated I would be loath to suggest the
withdrawal of their charters even though a desired consolidation
were not effected. In many of these Lodges there is a fellowship
of which any Body of Masons might well be proud. Their brethren
are indeed "linked together by an indissoluble chain of sincere
affection." They need and they deserve the encouragement of
Grand Lodge-not merely for what they have been, but for what
they are.
In this connectfon, without any suggestion from the Lodge,
or, any of its members, and even without the knowledge of any
of them of my purpose so to do, I here call attention of Grand
Lodge to a condition more or less typical of many of these little
Lodges. The particular Lodge to which I refer was chartered in
1855. The membership on August 1st, 1920, is exactly what it
was on August 1st, 1915. The average attendance is eight. There
have been only three initiations in the last two years. Its total
resources amount to $444.00 (of which amount, by the way, $150.00
is in Liberty Bonds). There was a liability incurred to one of
our Boards of Relief in the sum of $650.00 for the expense of the
last illness and funerals of two of its members. In one case (where
an operation was necessary) the expense was over $500.00. Principally from contributions made by its members, $400.00 of this
amount has been paid; and out of its meager resources this little
Lodge has paid to Grand Lodge its contribution of $113.40. I(
a request for a remission of its Grand Lodge contribution had
been made, there is no doubt it would have been granted. It
would be a gracious thing, and an acknowledgment of that spirit
of Masonry to which I have referred, if Grand Lodge would, without a request therefor, return to this Lodge the amount of the
contribution received from it.
Attendance.-Whatever may be the problem in any particular
Lodge, oq in any particular district, there is one common to all.
It is that of attendance. It might be perhaps more appropriately

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

77

referred to as that of "non-attendance." The other form 1 however
is purposely used because of the fact that there has bee n a mate~
rial increase in attendance in those Lodges in which an earnest
effort has been made to 'co-operate with the Committee on Masonic
Education, and to provide for their members something more
attractive than the opportunity of witnessing the conferring of
degrees.
In the questionnaire which I sent to the Masters of the Lodges,
I asked for specific information as to whether or not there had
been provided for the members something in addition to the degree
work either in the way of talks or special features; and if there
had been, if there was a noticeable increase in the attendance. I
also desired to know if refreshments were provided at any of the
meetings; and if so, how often and upon what occasions. If evidence were needed of the correctness of the views expressed under
this head, it is furnished by the answers received to these questions. In this connection, by the way, I desire to make acknowledgment of the special effort made by some of the Masters to
have their reports comprehensive. One of them (Brother Marshall
of Alta Vista Lodge) · attached to his report a chart in the form
of a "graph" which shows at a glance not only the attendance at
every meeting during 1920, as compared with the corresponding
meetings during 1919, but as well whether or not there were special features provided. I regret exceedingly that it was received
too late to be reproduced and included in the appendix as a part
of this Message. It graphically illustrates a condition typical of
that in most of our. Lodges, as shown by the reports I have
received.

Wherever Lodges had provided special features, there was a
material increase in the attendance; and almost universally the
attendance was larger at the meetings at which there was no degree
work. Where the attendance was larger at the meetings at which
degrees were conferred, refreshments were provided at those meetings and not at the others. In many instances where a Lodge had
. introduced the discussion of public questions as a part of its regular program the attendance had been more than doubled.
This is peculiarly significant in view of the fact that it will
be r~membered that in all instances I asked for the . average number m attendance at all meetings, stated and called; and that in
most of the Lodges even where the new program has been adopted,
the change has been made in only one meeting in the month. The
attendance at those meetings was so large that it brought up the
average to the figures given, even where there had been no material increase in the attendance at the other meetings.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. The complaint we make with reference to the lack_ ~f atte~d­
ance is not peculiar to our jurisdiction. The same condition exists
in all the American jurisdictions. It has been said that less than
10% of our American Masons attend Lodge. I am personally
inclined to the belief that the percentage is very much smaller;
and that there are few jurisdictions in the country where more
than 5% of the members in the entire jurisdiction are c:ven irregularly in attendance at their Lodges.
Startling as the statement may seem, I believe that the nonattendance which is so generally deplored is evidence of the worth
of our membership. That our members generally do not attend
Lodge is, I think, due solely to the fact that in t?e av~rage Lodge
there is not provided the sort of program which will naturally
attract the kind of men of whose membership we have a right to
be proud.
The Ritual.-If a remedy is to be found for the ills of which
we complain we must first ascertain the cause. I can not but
believe that it is due primarily to the fact that there is too much
ritual. I do not mean by this merely that there are too many
repetitions of the esoteric work> due to the increase in the number
of candidates. That repetition can be avoided by the adoption
of the so-called "group plan" which has always obtained in many
of our Eastern jurisdictions, and which will be exemplified at this
Communication. This, however, will not entirely remed_y the
condition.
I believe that the ritual itself is too long and should be materially abridged. There is no reason why the degree of Master
Mason could not be conferred in its entirety without the elimination of a single essential feature and retaining all the beauties of
the symbolism in perhaps a little more than one-half the time
now consumed. Forty minutes, orr at the most one hour, should
be sufficient for the purpose.
The fact ·of the matter is that we have unduly magnifie~ the
importance of the esoteric work. The ritual was certainly never
intended as anything more than the means to an end. With us
it has become apparently the end we have in view. Everything
revolves around it; all else is made subservient to it. Proficiency
in the ritual is the test of efficiency in the Master. Apparently
the most important thing in Masonry is for the Master of a Lodge
to know when to say "on" and when "upon" and to remember
that on one occasion a certain distinguished personage "exclaimed"
while on another he merely " remarked."
I hope I will not be misunderstood as intimating that I do
not regard it as essential that the "work" should be correctly

79

given. I of course recognize the fact that communicated as it is
from mouth to ear its preservation depends upon the exactitude
with which it is communicated; and whenever I have r eferred to
the subject I have been careful to explain that I want to see the
work given as nearly "letter perfect" as is possible, and of course
as impressively as it can be. The undue importance we have
attached to the ritual, however, and the. time which is consumed
in conferring degrees have not only resulted in the lack of attendance of which we complain, but are responsible for the condition
Past Grand Master Hervey had in mind when in his admirable
address · to Grand Lodge he said: " By failing to respond to the
intellectual and spiritual demands of their members som~ of our
Lodges are ·l osing the interest and active support of many of the
best Masons in California and are in danger of becoming the
patrons of the me~iocre."
This condition is to be particularly deplored when we remember that the Masters of our Lodges are selected through the system of "rotation in office ;" and that generally speaking (and eliminating the exceptions which prove the rule) the men who could
do the most for Masonry as Masters of their Lodges will not serve
for seven years where practically the entire time of the L o dge is
devoted to the conferring of degrees. Of course the system of
rotation in office is in itself objectionable. We select our Masters
not for what they are, but for what we expect they will be in seven
years from the day they receive their first appointment "in the
line;" but even the abandonment of that system would not result
in attracting the service of the ablest of our number if we continued to subordinate everything else to the ritual.
Social Side of Masonry.-N ot t he least of the ills attributable
to a Lodge which is so "busy" that it can not find tim e for anything but the conferring of degrees is the lack of that fellowship
through which men become closely united. To promote that fellowship, the social side of Masonry must be developed. Here
again I must not be misunderstood. I do not seek to make the
Lodge a "playground of Masonry." We can not, however, close
our eyes to the fact that not infrequently the great attraction of
these "playgrounds" is the fellowship men have failed to find in
the Lodge. There will always be, of course, Masons who simply
want to "belong;" that is not the sort I have in mind. There are,
however, initiated in every Lodge, earnest, sincere men who knock
at our doors with a real desire to be helpful to their fellow men
and who are quite content to remain worthy Master Masons; but
who are lured to some co-ordinate Body of Masonry because they
have failed to find in the Lodge that which they sought.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The precepts of Masonry must be illustrated by its practices.
It is .virtually impossible to entertain a sincere affection for a man
whom you do not know even by sight and whose name you have
never heard. ''True friendship" can not exist among strangers;
and if the members of a Lodge are not to "remain at a perpetual
distance" an opportunity of becoming acquainted with each other
must be afforded them. Whatever will accomplish this purpose
is to be desired; but experience has shown that there is · nothing
so conducive to sociability and real fellowship as gathering around
the refreshment table·s. The reports show that those meetings_
were best attended where refreshments were provided; but he
would be a careless observer who concluded from this that the
increased attendance was due to the opportunity to enjoy what is
popularly termed a "free feed." That was but an incident; the
real attraction was the sociability attendant upon such occasions.
If proof of this were needed it would be supplied by the experience of one of the most energetic and capable of our Masters.
One of the most attractive of the many social features provided
by him for the members 0£ his Lodge was the "dollar dinner" for
which the members themselves paid.
There is, ~f course, some excuse, if not good reason, for the
failure to do more along this line than was done during the year
just past. The Lodges were simply swamped with petitions; the
friends of the candidates were insistent that they should receive
their degrees at the earliest possible time; and the officers of the
Lodges were overburdened with the work devolving upon them.
Let us, however, hope that the "rush" is now over; and that all
the Masters will now do what I am pleased to say many of them
did and give more thought to the members they already have than
to obtaining new ones. I would like to here refer specifically to
several Masters throughout the Jurisdiction whose work has been
especially noteworthy. This, however, is of course impracticable.

issued there are at least six more now being organized, two of
which will apply for Dispensations this month.
If in my reference to the condition of the Craft I have seemed
to unduly stress those things wherein I believe we have failed
rather than those wherein I know we have succeeded, it has not
been in a spirit of fault finding; but with the hope that if there are
indeed faults in our system they will thus be made more evident
and therefore more likely be corrected. I believe that Masonry
has done a good work in California during the past year; and I
am intensely proud of what has been accomplished by the Craft.

80

New Lodges.-There has been heretofore apparently a disposition in this Jurisdiction to discourage the formation of new
Lodges. The table included by Brother Whited in his report last
year disclosed the fact that compared with other jurisdictions the
number of our lodges is disproportionately small in relation to our
total membership. Compared with Alabama, for instance, we had
more than twice as many Masons and only a few more than two.thirds as many Lodges. This condition was primarily responsible
for the increased burden cast upon the officers of our Lodges;
and it was the recognition of this fact which was, to a great extent,
responsible for the number of new Lodges formed during the past
year. In addition to the twenty to which Dispensations have been

81

In Appreciation
To mention by name all to whom I feel indebted for assistance rendered me would be impracticable if not indeed impossible;
and I trust that the mention of a few will not convey to the others
the impression that I am unmindful of, or ungrateful for, their
cooperation; but to fail to mention those few would be to assume
for myself credit to which they are entitled.
As have been all Grand Masters, I am especially indebted to
the Grand Secretary and Grand Lecturer. The intimate relation
which should exist between the Grand Master and Grand Secretary, and which it has been my pleasure to enjoy, has but increased
my pride in the friendship of John Whicher. His conception of
the office of Grand Secretary in its relation to that of Grand
Master is ideal. He relieves the Grand Master of the necessity of
giving his ·attention to matte.rs of pure routine, but is punctilious
in referring to him those which should receive his personal attention, including even inquiries which might be answered by the
Grand Secretary but which should have been addressed to the
Grand Master. Ever ready and willing to give that counsel and
advice his sound judgment and long experience make so valuable,
he seems especially desirous of doing nothing which even the
most sensitive might construe as an intention to usurp a function
of the Grand Master. He has been to me a tower of strength.
Indeed I may frankly say that without his aid and assistance, no
less than his counsel and advice, I would not have been able to
discharge the duties devolving upon me. I also feel constrained
to ·refer to the unfailing courtesy with which' his Assistant, Brother ·
Johnson,has so promptly and efficiently responded to the requests
made of him.
No less to the Grand Lecturer than to the Grand Secretary
am I indebted for the cooperation he so willingly and gladly
gives the Grand Master. Not only did Brother Baker arrange
the details of our official visits in such form as he knew would

"

8Z

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

be pleasing to me, but when with me he was ever solicitous for
my personal comfort and convenience. I know that at times I
must have sorely tried his temper-not only because of the difference in our views as to the importance of form and ceremony,
but as well (although I hope infrequently) by the impatience of
a temperament to which he is fortunately a stranger. His unfailing good nature, patience and cheerfulness were primarily responsible for the enjoyment I found in our association. It is
unnecessary, I know, to do more than remind Grand Lodge of
the manner in which he is performing .the duties of his office; and
there is no officer of the Grand Lodge whose duties are more
irksome and attended by greater personal discomfort. The place
he occupies in the affections of our brethren is the best testimony
of his worth.
I have made a special point of keeping Brother Rodden, the
Deputy Grand Master, advised of my actions and not infrequently
before determining definitely upon some procedure have counselled
with him as I have also with Brother Sherman, the Junior Grand
Warden. Our official associations have cemented a friendship I
have long enjoyed with both of them. That the opinion and
counsel of Brother Burke, our Senior Grand Warden, have not
been so frequently sought is of course due to the fact that his
residence in Los Angeles made him less accessible.
In the investment of the funds of Grand Lodge and the Masonic Homes of California I have felt that I might safely rely
upon the judgment of Brother Filmer, our Grand Treasurer.
To fail to make special mention of Brother Andrew L. Johnston would not only show a lack of appreciation of what he has
done for me personally, but no less of what he has done for the
fraternity. To carry on his work in the District especially assigned
to him by his associates on the Committee on Masonic Education,
he gave up a part of his vacation and accompanied the Grand
Lecturer and me on our Northern California trip to Eureka. As
have the other members of his Committee, he has been ever ready
to personally fill engagements when he could not obtain another
speaker; and he was of especial assistance in reorganizing the
Northern California Unit at Sacramento.
To even inadequately make acknowledgment of the special
courtesies of which the Grand Master has been the recipient in
his visits throughout the State, and of the earnest cooperation he
has received from Masters of Lodges and their officers would
unduly extend this already perhaps too lengthy Message. As I
have already said, all the brethren have been exceedingly kind
,to me; and I hope they understand that I am very grateful to them.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

Conclusion
The year just past has been in many ways one of the happiest
of all the years of my life. I have believed, perhaps fatuously, that
an opportunity was afforded me as Grand Master of Masons to
perform a service not merely to the Craft, but to the Commonwealth. I could not hope to measure up to that opportunity as
I viewed it; but the effort I have made has been commensurate
with my ability. I have left undone many things I would have
liked to do; but I hope I have done nothing that would have been
better left undone.
A few days more and" I shall be no longer "the first among
my equals;" but I have learned the lesson I have sought to teach
-that the inestimable privilege of "service" is not peculiar to any
rank or station. I shall be quite content to be one of those "closely
united men working for the welfare of mankind" and for the safety,
peace and prosperity of the Nation.
CHAS. ALBAAT ADAMS,

Grand Master.

APPENDIX
October 31 , 1919.
To the Master of Each Lodge in the Jurisdiction:
Worshipful Sir:
At the request of the United States Treasury Department I
am specifically calling your attention to the resolutions adopted
by Grand Lodge at its latest Communication, pledging the Fraternity to co-operate with the Government in its campaign for
the promotion of thrift as a national policy.
In compliance with that resolution you are requested to immediately name a member of your Lodge as a Thrift Agent to
cooperate with the Government in the sale of Thrift and War
Savings Stamps, War Savings Certificates and Treasury Savings
Certificates.
·
You. are also requested to provide the agent named with an
adequate revolving fund to enable him to carry on hand for the
convenience of the members of your Lodge a sufficient supply of
such securities of the United States Government.
It is suggested that these securities furnish a particularly
appropriate form of investment for the interest which accrues on
the Government Bonds held by your Lodges. It is of ·course
unnecessary to state that any available funds in the Lodge Treasury
may be invested in these securities.

84

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

It is hoped that you will not be content to comply merely
with the strict letter of the resolution, but that you will endeavor
to carry out its spirit as well by making every effort to instill
and encourage a spirit of thrift and saving among the members
of your Lodge. This can best be done by inducing them to form
the habit of making regular purchases of Thrift and War Savings
Stamps.
During the war the appeal for the purchase of Thrift Stamps
and War Savings Stamps was made to the patriotism of the people.
The most enthusiastic proponents of the plan, however, were those
who realized that it was not, strictly speaking, a purely war time
measure; and that the necessities of the hour simply furnished
the opportunity for the institution of a Nation-wide m ovement
for the inculcation of a spirit of thrift and economy in the American people. The vision presented to them was that of better
citizenship. They recognized the fact that good government ·cannot exist without the basis of g ood citizenship, and that good
citizenship implies that the individual citiZen shall be honest,
industrious and thrifty.
Never was there greater need than now (not even during the
war) for that good citizenship which is the boast of our Fraternity. It is therefore suggested that the members of your Lodge
be notified either through your ·Lodge Bulletin, or by special
notice sent to them, or otherwise, that this is a part of the program
adopted by the Grand Lodge to enable the Fraternity to bear its
part in the movement for the development of a higher and better
American citizenship.
Fraternally yours,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

Grand Master.
PROCLAMATION
Public Schools Week in the Masonic Lodges in California
To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren of the Several. Lodges
in this Jurisdiction:
As Masons we unqualifiedly subscribe to the belief that an
educated and enlightened citizenship is the first great care of a
progressive State; and that upon our Public Schools depends the
hope for the perpetuity of a free and untrammeled democracy.
The professions we make as Masons demand that as citizens
· of the Commonwealth we take an active and intelligent interest
in all matters affecting 'OUr Public Schools.

85

A crisis is now confronting the Public School System in
America. There is a dearth of competent teachers, schools are ,
being closed, children, particularly in the rural communities, are
being de nied the education to which they are entitled and there
is apparently a deplorable apathy concerning remedial measures
which have been proposed.
To focus the attention of the Craft on existing conditions, I
as Grand Master of Masons in the Jurisdiction of California, do
now proclaim the week commencing Monday, September 27th,
1920, as "Public Schools Week" in the Masonic Lodges in this
Jurisdiction ; and I do earnestly request that during that week,
in every Lodge in this Jurisdiction some phase of the questions
affecting the Public Schools be brought to the attention of the
members present by speakers appointed for that purpose.
A tentative program and suggestions for the appointment of
speq.kers appear on the following pages.
Dated at San Francisco this 30th day o f August, 1920.
CHAS. ALBl!RT ADAMS,

(Seal)

Grand Master.

Attest:
JOHN WHICH'f:R,

Grand Secretary.
Meetings
It is suggested that wherever it can be conveniently done
several Lodges unite in holding a joint meeting. In the smaller
communities, particularly, it is suggested that the meetings · be
open ones to which the families of Masons may be invited.
In the large cities where two or more Lodges meet on the
same evening it is suggested that a joint meeting of all those
Lodges be held. The occasion will be such an important one
that no Master should hesitate in giving up the entire evening for
the purpose.
Special notices should be sent by every Lodge to all its
members and every meeting should be well advertised.
In every community the cooperation of the County Superintendent of Schools should be secured. He has been already advised
by the State Superintendent of Schools of the proposed program
in our Lodges.
Immediately upon receipt of this announcement the Master
of the Lodge should either arrange to have his Lodge join with
some other in a meeting, or make it his special business to secure
one or more speakers to address his own Lodge.

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Speakers

Following this presentation would naturally occur the discussion of any remedial measures proposed. This naturally
suggests the discussion of

The Committee on Masonic Education will, wherever possible,
furnish speakers; but their inability. to do so need not preclude any
Lodge from holding the desired meeting. It is suggested that
Masters do not make application to their Local Unit of the Committee on Masonic Educa.tion unless they find it impossible to
otherwise secure speakers.
With the cooperation of the various Superintendents of Schools
it ought not be difficult for a Lodge in any community to obtain
a speaker. In many communities speakers may be found among
the principals and teachers; and in almost every Lodge ·there is
some member who, can present· the subject if he has an opportunity
to prepare himself. The literature which will be later sent the
Lodges will afford this opportunity. ·
·Program
The following tentative program is suggested as one which
will fairly cover the most important matters in connection with
the subject:
The Present Crisis.-Under this head attention could be called
to the following facts:
That 18,279 schools in the United States were closed for lack
of teachers;
That 41,900 children are being taught by teachers ," below
standard;"
That out of 600,000 teachers 20ff,OOO have had less than four
years training beyond the eighth grade;
Th.a t 300,000 _have pad no special training;
That 150,000 of these teachers are un_d er tw~nty-one: y¢ars of
.
, '
.
:-_ .
age;·
·-~

'

, That 65,000 are teaching on pertriits t
.Th,at in Californi~ there is' a shortage of not les,s. than 1200
'teachers, and 600 schools have been ciosed-m~sttY in the rural
districts. Even in our large cities teachers are "doubling up"
and the classes contain 80 children instead of 40.
The speaker who desfr"eS to cover this subject will' find ample
material in an article published ih Collier's Weekly· In the 'issue
of Februaty 28th, 1920, under the title: "Their Lives for America."

87

The Smith-Towner Bill.-This is a proposed Act of Congress
now pending which provides for Federal aid to 'S tates. Booklets
giving full information concerning this bill are being provided by
the National Educational Association and will be forwarded to
the Lodges in ample time to afford the necessary opportunity for
speakers tQ prepare themselves.
In addition to the proposed Federal legislatton, there will
be presented t<'l the electors in California an amendment to our
Constitution which will provide for

. State Support for Elementary Schools.-This proposed amendment will likewise be sent to the Lodges together with a pamphlet
written by the State Superintendent of Schools, Will C. Wood,
in support thereof.
Then in conclusion might well come a discussion of this topic:
What Can We. as Masons Do to Support Public Education?Under this topic ·Masons should be reminded that as good citizens
and because of their professions as Masons it is the'ir duty to
inform themselves regarding conditions affecting the Public
Schools in their several communities with particular relation to
the financial support, the conditions with. reference to political
control (that is to say, the province and duty of the various
Boards, State, County and Municipal, that have supervision and
control of school interests), efficiency ~f administration, and
qualification and preparation of the teaching corps.
It will be at all times remembered, of course, that Masonry
is not a po)itical organization and that the Fraternity and Masons,
as such take no part in advancing the interests of any particular
candidate for public office; and that the purpose of these meetings
is only to inform and advise the members of the Fraternity that
they may as individuals discharge their duty as citizens. There
will be no impropriety, however, in suggesting to those present
that if they believe the measures discussed deserve the support of
all good citizens and are for the benefit of the Public School
System and therefore, of course, of the Nation, they may and
should as individuals do all that lies in their power to secure the
adoption of the proposed measures.
In this co nnection, however, it is to be particularly remembered
that these discussions are not intended as propaganda for the

PROCEF.OINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA

support of any particular measure-National, State or Local. They
are intended to be informative and instructive with the idea that
there shall be a fair and full discussion of every subject presented.
Any member present should not only be permitted, but encouraged,
to express any views he may entertain in opposition to those
presented by the speaker.

REPORT OF GRAND SECRET ARY

gg '

The program above suggested could be, of course, cover~d hy
one speaker. It would. require, however, so much time, that i1
is suggested that if possible instead of having one speaker cover
the whole grolV1d the time be divided among not less than three.
WHATEVER MAY BE THE NATURE OF THE PROGRAM ADOPTED THERE IS TO BE NO ACTION OF ANY
SORT TAKEN AT ANY OF THESE MEETINGS. NO PENDING LEGISLATION IS TO BE ENDORSED OR DISAPPROVED AND THERE IS TO BE NO RESOLUTION
· ADOPTED CONCERNiNG IT.
.

The Deputy Grand Master appointed the following:
Committee on Grand Master's Message : Will H. Fischer (445),
C. Harry Wheeler (10), William Penn Humphreys (22) .

89

· To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution I present herewith a report oE the transactions of the Grand Secretary's office
for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1920, together with a detailed
statement of all moneys received within the year, and an itemized
statement of the disbursements of Grand Lodge. I also append
an account of receipts since the close of business July 31 to and
including October 7, 1920, and all unfinished business of Grand
Lodge.
The experiment of taxing petitioners for the degrees $20 each
for the benefit of the Masonic Homes appears to have been a success, and ought to materially reduce the per capita tax on the members. A special form of receipt for the $20 contribution has been
printed, and copies will be sent to Lodges, to be delivered to contributors immediately after the conferring of the first degree. Masters should instruct their Secretaries that the moneys derived from
this $20 fee are no part of Lodge funds, and should be deposited
in a special account-and so far as may be, where some interest
may accrue for the benefit of the Lodge. A good plan would be'
to accept two checks from the petitioner, one for the fee required
by the by-laws and one for the Home fee.
All Lodges have reported with the single exception of Loyalton No. 359.

1. At the close of the last annual communication there were 381
Lodges on our registry. Since that time dispensations have been
issued for the formation of 20 new Lodges, as follows:
America Lodge, at Los Angeles : Dispensation issued December 4, 1920. Lewis Cruickshank, Master; Joseph Marcus Baker,
Senior Warden; Charles Emroy Wright, Junior Warden; and
Chari.es Worden Cramer, Henry Arthur Kehler, Otis Bowyer
Berry, Henry Meyer Rudd, Gilbert Bailey Carr, Berry Lafayette
Isbell, La Ver11e Monteith Watson, Willis Anderson Wilsy, Roy
Edgar Perry, Robert Garfield Swartz, Louis Decker Sumner, William Augustus Schrieder, John Thomas Drewett, Dwight De Burn,
Robert Goodyear Holton, Philip William Dedrick, Frank Hosmer
Mitchell, James Aldis Fritz, Roy Ellsworth Leonard.

PROCBEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Coachella Lodge, at Coachella, Riverside County: Dispensation issued January 3, 1920. Merton Chesley Cawthon, Master;
Charles Belford Jones, Senior Warden; Grover Leon Rorer, Junior
Warden; and Frank T. McCarroll, Charles Richard Cawthon,
Thomas Henry Rosenberger, Lawrence Rymer Pratt, Charles Edwin Stevens, Edward Michael Ruoff, Hiram Edwin · Smith, Lionel
John Fabian, Knox Mason Cologne, Charles Bernard Estle, and
Clarence E. French.

Rothberg, Senior Warden; Emil Paul Ziegler, Junior Warden; and
Arthur Herman Ziegler, Hubert Roy McNally, Edward Monson,
Eric Campbell Kinsey, James Lafayette Gray, Pitt Kellogg Winchell, William John McNally, Farris Wheeler, Oscar Adolf Edwall,
John Alvin Romaine, Maurice Solomon Stewart, Victor Clair Roblin, James Quinn Wilson, Oscar William Lind, Godfrey Charles
Down, Arthur Ramage, George Charles Francis, Charles Herbert
James, Edwin Wyman Trapp, Roland Fairfield R6bie, Anthony
Edward Santos, and Bruce Ernest Gillette.

90

Temb.l or Lodge, at Fellows, Kern County: Dispensation issued January 14, 1920. Walter Theodore Aitken, Master; Emmett
Wesley Nisbet, Jr., Senior Warden; Lewis Ely Stephens, Junior
Warden; and William Alex Hillis, Edward Leroy Smith, Robert
Henry Donahue, Pearl Leo Searle, Avery John Whiteside, Clifton
Mordean Small, Otto Grattan Hess, Thomas Samuel Kingston,
Jacob Augustus Moller, Chas. Oliver Woods; John Henry McKain,
Rushworth James Bennett, Floyd Otto Formway, Cleveland Henry
Groves, Ben Lingo, Elmer South; Alex Russell Moodie, Allison
Ely, · Herman Maurice Klein, and Chester Carl Copley:
Thousand Oaks Lodge, . at Berkeley, Alameda County: Dispensation issued February 27, 1920. Benjamin Harrison Pratt,
Master; Joseph Charles Clayworth, Senior Warden; William James
Morrison, Junior Warden; and Charles Biscom, Lawrence Charles
Manor, Lovett Kenzie Fraser, Herbert Benjamin Dawe, James
Harry Smith, John Simpson, Frank Harold DePue, Jr., Edgar Blasdel Dawson, Charles Bernard Keyes, William ·E verett Erwin, Cecil
Gartmore Ritchie, Herbert Frederick Kern, James Randal Davis,
Edward Murray Walls, Lawrence Walls Rankin, James Aubrey
Riddle, Albert James Tweedy, Willard Glidden Cram, Joseph Emroy Newman, Charles Bruce Potter, Hamilton James Lawrie, and
William Wiesenfeld.
Golden Rule Lodge, at San Jose, Santa Clara County: Dispensation issued March 4, 1920. Albert Edan Sandbo, Master;
Louis Theron Smith, Senior ·Warden; Alfred Adams Hapgood
Junior Warden; and Frederick William Imker; Horace Cureton'
Ellis Lehi Jenkins.en, Willard Bartlett Rice, Frank Valpey Camp~
bell, George Eber Tarleton, George Clayton Hines, Clarence McWilliams, Walter Armstead Folger, Horace Miner Gruwell, Alfred
Bertrand Cooper, Joseph Philip Schaefer, John S. Hasen, William
Thomas Lloyd, Louis Melvin Kimberlin, William Grey Tayler, Dr.
John Samuel Staub; Elmer Julius Chaboya, Vincent Burton Stone,
Guy Ellsworth Marshall, H. Ray Fry and James Louis Kimberlin.
Fellowship Lodge, at Oakland: Dispensation issued March
17, 1920. John Frederick Alfred Maguire, Master; James Hamilton

91

Mt. Davidson Lodge, at San Francisco: Dispensation issued
April 5, 1920. Henry John Brunnier, Master; Arthur Harry White,
Senior Warden; Lewis Charles Weisbach, Junior Warden; and
Clarence Francis Pratt, Howard Wilbur Senter, Frank Smith Brittain, Lincoln Duncan Macdonald, Adolph Benno Gottschalk, Stefan
Wassilko, John Clifford De Hart, Harold Alexander Ballentine,
William Edward Newman, Elmer Jacob Ely, Henry Matthew Furman, Ifarold Kingsley W eidenfeld, Jean Albert Richert, William
Alonzo Nelson, Fernando Nelson, Benjamin Franklin Blair, Curtis
Clement Legerton, Charles Leland Blair, Clovis Alonzo Farnsworth, Otis Allen Sharpe, and Ernest Henry Newall.
Clarence F. Smith Lodge, at Los Angeles: Dispensation is8ued April 23, 1920. Ebenezer Ingram, Master; Stephen Sterling
Boothe, Senior Warden; Frank Graves Fallon, Junior Warden;
and Charles Franklin Hutchins, Plummer H. Montgomery, Howard
Sloane Tracy, Frank Wheeler Rea, Henry G. Krohn, Paul Nourse,
John Porter Haynor, Jess Gwin Foster, Russell D. Ingram, Robert C. Paulsen, Roy Gibbons ,Mead, Frank C. Wiser, Ross Henry
Rook, Dudley Lindsey, Charles Lawrence Lewis, Arthur Edward
DeMatt, Sidney T.·Butler, Harry E. Kunkel, Chas. E. VanDerof,
Peter J. Willis, Clifton C. Overpeck, and Raymond Irving Follmer.
Bell Lodge, at Bell, Los Angeles County: Dispensation issued April 28, 1920. Charles Edward Wickham, Master; Joseph
Francis Carroll, Senior Warden; Daniel Leonard Moore, Junior
Warden; and Russel Lee Lindsley, Albert Logan Clarkson, Nathaniel Ted Lyon, Charles Miller Herlinger, Alien Floyd Gibbs,
Frank Wesley Morgan, Ja·c ob Valdemar Dyrr, Benjamin Partridge,
James Albert Gafford, Charles Roscoe Peck, Moses Light Frick,
Charles Henry Balzer, and Edwin Alonzo Burke.
Albert Pike Lodge, at Los Angeles: Dispensation issued April
29, 1920. Charles S. Walton, Master; Dudley M. Dorman, Senior
Warden; Frank M. Hudson, Junior Warden; and John Lynch Butler, Charles Hall, Alfred Earle Dennis, Francis Joseph Augsberger,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hugh H. Hinds, Joseph Roscoe Knapp, Harry Speakman, Adolph
R. . Kieburtz, Reuben Oscar Bourne, John Joseph Fletcher, Walter
Saint Clair Heaton, Samuel Walker McCallen, Andrew T. DeMasters Marshall Stewart Culver, Charles Edward Reifsteck, Emanuel
Richard Northmore, Gillian L. McLeod, Edger Cleyrien Taylor,
A. Gaylord Beaman.
Chowchill~ Lodge, at Chowchilla, Madera County: Dispensation issued May 29, 1920. Gustave M. Eastman, Master; N. B.
Frazer, Senior Warden; Frederick H. Hull, Junior Warden; and
A. L. Gambrill, Al W. Freeberg, R. H. Yates, Ralph E. Ashley,
E. I. Layne, W. L Palmer, A. F. Rice, W.R. Pope, W. P. Coombs,
Frank Hoopes, S. H. Gregory, E. G. Tiller, John Follows, B. B.
Unrich, J. F. Griffin, Seymour R. Frizelle, C. C. Flagg, W. ·F.
Berry, and W. E. Davis.

Caledonia Lodge, at Bakersfield, Ke~n County: Dispensation
issued June 18, 1920. Benjamin Brugler Thomas, Master; James
Henry Thornber, Senior Warden; George Lynn Scott, Junior Warden; and Robert Lee Sheehan, Norval D. Gleghorn, Elmer E. Ellsworth William Robson Topham, James Gilbert Ansley, John Andrew Wahlin, Charles Joseph Crumpley, Alexander Claude Hamilton Clifford Francis Baughman, George Lewis Buhn, Willis George
Ha~t, Anza Walter Robison, Jesse Hull Kirk, Gustav Schamblin,
Charles Howard Davis, James H. Dewar, Harry Carl Slater,
Thomas Rex MacDonald, Elmer Charles Williams, John Allstaetter, and Carl Singler Haynie.
Vallejo Lodge, at Vallejo: Dispensation issued June 19, 1920.
Harry Lockwood Michael, Master; . Edward Christopher Morris,
Senior Warden; Fred Evans Dickey, Junior Warden; and Harry
Cornelius Siebert,· John Michael, Henry Clay Vande Water, Hen~y
Duncan Kerr Maurice Ewart Shane, Albert B. Scanlon, John Fiscalini, Paul Maritz, Mark McNealy, Charles Walter Bailer, Gordon Hilton, Henry Palmer B. O'Dogherty, Clarence Farmer
George, Peter Francis Bradhoff, Bert Wilson, Joh_n B. Snell, Clarence A. Fitzgerald, Alexander W. Gates, Alvin Norton Hulse, Guy
Scott Mollison, "and Ralph Waldo Jackson.
Patterson Lc;idge, at Patterson, Stanislaus County: Dispensation issued July 12, 1920. Percy Harrison, Master; John Olgat
Lindquist, Senior Warden; John Knill Kinsman, Junior Warden;
and Chas. T. E. Smith, Henry Leonard Heintz, Alford L. Watson,
Philip Henry Shimmin, George Wesley Mathews, William Robert .
Binney, Olof Braren, Lon J. Taylor, William Fredrick Hanell,
Harold Hurbart Everett, Frederick Bartch, John K. Howard, Chas.

93

H. Johnson, William Scott Hill, John Logan Davies, Benjamin
Franklin Bowers, Lowell Clark, Anderson Umbarger, Raymond P.
Smith, James McCune Kerr, Carl Harvey Benson, and, Epi Morganti.
East Bay Lodge, at South Berkeley: Dispensation issued July
22, 1920. E4gar Roy Nash, Master; F. H. Van Tassell, Senior
Warden; Alonzo Colman Shurtz, Junior Warden; and George Minter Hodges, Longwill Van Buskirk, Edmund A. deCamp, Lloyd
Hiram Patten, Roland Richter, George V. Rix, Edward McKenley,
Eric H. Swenson, Thomas E. Caldecott, Joseph A. Sutton, Wm.
C. Gush, Alvin H. Ridley, Walter Calton Ball, Harris Falk, Paul
Bastin, Henry Wittenberg Winters, Charles L. Gelan, Henri Eugene Ozouf, William L. Wood, Frederick Earl Nelson, Frederic
Walton Miller, and David Samuel Roberts.
Corcoran Lodge, at Corcoran, Kings County: Dispensation
issued August 11, 1920. Sanford M. Barber, Master; James E.
Martin, Senior Warden; John C.. Stewart, Junior Warden; and
Frank G. Cross, Thomas Conway DeShon, Lewis Steele Randolph,
Bernard Claud DeShon, Alexander L. Hunter, Clarence C. Wilson, Walter Irwin Nonhof, Burt N. Kirk, Oliver H. Lovell, Leslie
George Fuller, Stanton .McGinnis, Benjamin F. Gilbert, Harry
Barnett Shaw, Joseph W. Ginberson, William Taylor Tabb, John
Thomas Peery, Elbert Clinton Miller, Herbert Earl Amos, Nicholas G. Perkins, Ota Day Strong, and Willard Ernest Dingley.
Woodstock Lodge, at Alameda: Dispensation issued August
· 16, 1920. Ainos Vincent Mollart, Master; Charles Olaf Silvertsen,
· Senior W~rden; Frederick Albert Frisius, Junior Warden; and
Charles Edward Fergus, Kinnie Z. Richardson, Francis Joseph
Holtz, Herbert Vaughn Taylor, James Garfield Clark, Otto Riehl,
Jens Peter L. Kirschbaum, Fred.erick C. Deetkin, Joseph ¥ilton
Wilson, Frederick S. Collier, Frederick James Collier, Paul Strauch,
James Merskle Hale, Otto A. Leydecker, Floyd Wells Christian,
Ralph W. Merrick, Alfred George Stewart, and William P.
Hodgkins.
Garvanza Lodge, at Los Angeles: Dispensation issued August
23, 1920. Herbert Hughes Cox, Master; Nathaniel Mill Hill, Senior
Warden; William Edw. Bridge Partridge, Junior Warden; and
Jesse Stow Spence, Frederick Ellis Smith, Walter Edward Beadle,
Clifford Hamilton Aken, Irwin George Beadle, Emil Shirley Anderson, Archie T. Brown, William Raymond Myers, Henry James
Rayson, Arthur A. Wente, Royce Pulcifer, Roderick Mackay, Grif·
fith Condron, Henry Gearing, Edgar Milton Fisher, Harry Willis
Pulcifer, Jr., Cyrus Arthur Akin, George Henry Roth.

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Atascadero Lodge, at Atascadero, San Luis Obispo County:
Dispensation issued September 4, 1920. William M. Crilley, Master; Winfield Allen Scott, Senior Warden; Frank Lee Koch, Junior
Warden; and Raymond P. O'Connor, Augustus Anderson, Edwin
David Jarvis, Robert Ansley, Edward Percy Thomas, Clyde Eugene Scott, William James Robertson, Ralph W. Kin g, Robert B.
Moon, John F. Seibold, Ralph H. Tedford, and George Wilson
White.
Acorn Lodge, at Oakland: Dispensation issued September 24,
1920: John Thomas Stewart, Master; Charles Michael Herkenham, Senior Warden; Irvin Leon Grader, Junior Warden; and
Samuel Friend Worswick, Walter John Held, George Chester
Wharton, Dewey Charles Westaway, Elmer Frederick Page, Clarence Melvin Lake, Wilfred Paul Kleinclaus, August Ludwig Zimmer, Henry Tempest McKallor, George Thomas Loher, Jr., Robert
Hervey Wright, Ralph Stewart Leeman, Ralph Leroy Scott, Alfred
Bertram Hughes, Marshall Crutcher, Harvey Potter, John Butler
Williams, Cyrril Louis DeBrisk, Benjamin Currier Dykes, and
Arthur Rae McPhail.
0

December 25, 1919, the Grand Master approved the proceedings
had with relation to the consolidation of Mokelumne Hill Lodge
No. 298 and Calaverns Lodge No. 78, and the consolidated Lodge
is now known as Calaveras Lodge No. 78.
We now have 380 chartered Lodges on our registry, and with
the Lodges under dispensation at this date, our total number
is 400. ·
Statement of Work
2. Following is a comparative statement of work done in
1918, 1919, and 1920:
1918

1919

1920

2
Numl:ier of Lodges organized................................
4
20
Number of initiation5 reported ............................ 4,890 6,380 10,547
Number passed to degree of Fellow Craft........ 4,677 5,604 9,903
5,248
9,336
Number raised to degree of Master Mason .... 4,551
(,644
Number affiliated .................................................... 930
957
238
323
Number refnstated .................................................. 245
776 1,378
Number withdrawn .................................................. 725
550
460
Number suspended for non-payment of dues.. 609
19
21
Number suspended or expelled for cause........
12
949
Number of deaths reported.................................... 810 1,218
Number of members July 31................................63,986 67,890 76,873
672
Number exempted from paying dues .................. 3,690 2,786
Apparent net increase for the year ...................... 3,593 3,904 8,983
1
4
Number of Lodges consolidated ...........-.......................

95

Amendments to By-Laws
3. The following proposed amendments to the By-Laws have
been approved by the Grand Master:
Increasing fees for the degrees: Yount No. 12, to $60; Occidental No. 22, to $100; Golden Gate No. 30, to $80; Mount Moriah
No. 44, to $80; Morning Star No. 68, to $80; Naval No. 87, to $80;
Chico No. 111, to $55; Crockett No. 139, to $80; Excelsior No. 166,
to $80; Phoenix No. 178, to $55; King David's No. 209, to $80; Oak
Grove No. 215, to $80; Monterey No. 217, to $80; Speranza Italiana
No. 219, to $80; Bakersfield No. 224, to $80; Brooklyn No. 225, to
$55; Alcatraz No. 244, to $55; Fresno No. 247, to $80; East Gate
No. 290, to $80; Tehachapi No. 313, to $55; Hollenbeck No. 319,
to $80; South Gate No. 320, to $100; West Gate No. 335, to $80;
Fruitvale No. '336, to $55; Fullerton No. 339, to $75; Brentwood
No. 345, to $50; McKinley No. 347, to $55; San Bernardino No.
348, to $55; Sequoia No. 349, to $55; Hollywood No. 355, to $80;
Berkeley No. 363, to $55; Richmond No. 375, to $75; Mizpah No.
378, to $80; Highland Park No. 382, to $80; Parnassus No. 388,
to $80; Palos Verdes No. 389, tci $80; West Lake No. 392, to $80;
University No. 394, to $75; Apollo No. 396, to $80; Burlingame No.
400, to '$55; Yerba Buena No. 403, to $55; Charter Rock No. 410,
to $55; Alpha No. 431, to $55; Fairmount No. 435, to $80; Lancaster No. 437, to $80; Bethlehem No. 453, to $80; Wilshire No.
445, to $100; Park No. 449, to $80; Argonaut No. 461, to $80; Paul
Revere No. 462, to $100; Alta Vista No. 464, to $105; Center No.
465, to $80; Libertas No. 466, to $80.
Increasing dues: Yount No. 12, to $12; Lexington No. 104,
to $1Z; Santa Barbara No. 192, to $15;. North Butte No. 230, to
$24; Fullerton No. 339, to $12; West Lake No. 392, to $20; Lancaster No. 437, to $12; Standard No. 440, to $12.
Increasing fee for affiliation: Occidental No. 22, to $25; Her111ann No. 127, to $20; San Bernardino No. 348, to $5; Hollywood
No. 355, to $10; Charter Rock No. 410, to $5; Lancaster No. 437,
to $10; Bethlehem No. 453, to $10.
Decreasing fee for affiliation: Chico No. 111, to $10.
Porterville Lodge No. 303, repealing fee for affiliation.

And

Changing time of stated meetings: Western Star No. 2, Trinity No .. 27, Sacramento No. 40, Natoma No. 64, Morning Star No.
68, Naval No. 87, Hornitos No. 98, Lexington No. 104, Alameda
No. 167, Russian River No. 181, San Simeon No. 196, Hartley No.
199, Rio Vista No. 208, Doric No. 216, Landmark No. 253, Traver
No. 294, Fallbrook No. 317, Tehachapi No. 313, Carquinez No. 337,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jewel No. 374, Perris No. 411, Waucoba No. 413, Schofield No. 443,
Park No. 449, Henry S. Orme No. 458, Riverbank No. 459, America U. D.
Life Memberships
4. The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for
life memberships, as · follows: San Jose No. 10, $1 SO; Hawaiian
No. 21, $150; Naval No. 87, $150; Phoenix No. 178, $150; Pentalpha
No. 202, $120; Friendship No. 210, $112.50; Brooklyn No; 225, $150;
Willits No. 365, $150; Wilshire No. 445, $200; Argonaut No. 461,
$200; Delta No. 471, $150; Victory No. 474, $150; Albert Pike U. D.,
$150; Fellowship U. D., $150; Redondo No. 328, $150.
Dispensations Issued
5. By order of the Grand Master, special dispensations have
b_e en issued, as follows:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by the Constitution: Western Star No. 2, Mountain Shade No. 18, lone No.
80, Pacific No. 136, Phoenix No. 178, Sierra Valley No. 184, Friendship No. 210, Guadalupe No. 237, Reedley No. 304, Azusa No: 305,
Charity No. 362, South Pasadena No. 367, Arlington No. 414, Upland No. 419, Midway No. 426, Standard No. 440, Riverbank No.
459, Culver City No. 467, Rockbridge No. 468, Lincoln No. 470. The
elections held by virtue of the dispensations were to fill vacancies
caused by resignations or deaths.
To reballot upon candidates rejected within twelve months :
Los Angeles No. 42, Live Oak No. 61, Natoma No. 64, Eden No.
113, Pacific No. 136, Alameda No. 167, Santa Barbara No. 192, Wilmington No. 198, South San Francisco No. 212, Oak Grove No.
215, Laurel No. 245, Winnedumah No. 287, Yerba Buena No. 403,
Moneta No. 405, Bethlehem No. 453, Golden West No. 455, Paul
Revere No. 462, Lincoln No. 470.
To receive petitions from members of the army and navy who
did not have the required residential qualifications: Sacramento
No. 40, Mill Valley No. 356.
To receive and act upon petition without reference to a committee: Fraternity No. 399.
The Grand Master denied petitions for dispensations in the
following cases:
To reballot: Keith No. 187, Mountain View No. 194, San
Buenaventura No. 214, Balder No. 393, Lincoln No. 470.
To receive petitions from members of the army and navy :
San Diego No. 35, Wilmington No; 198, Palo Alto No. 346, Cor. onado No. 441, Blackmer No.. 442.
.

97

Trial Records
6. The following . transcripts of trial records have been received and delivered to the Chairman of the Committee on Grievances:
No. 98-Expelled by Lodi Lodge No. 256, in 1911. Petition
for restoration.
No. 115-Sitspend.e d by Crockett Lodge !;Jo. ·139, in 1912. Petition for restoration.
No. 144-Expelled by Corona LocJ.ge, in 1913. Petition for
restoration.
No. 196--Expelled in 1916 by Nicolaus Lodge No. 129. Petition for restoration.
No. 246--Suspended by Arcata Lodge No. 106 in 1918. Petition for restoration.
No. 264-Expelled in 1912 by Moneta Lodge No. 405. Petition
for restoration.
No. 265-Suspended by McKinley Lodge, 1919.
No. 266--Expelled by Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, in 1920. Appeal
by accused.
No. 267-Expelled by Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, in 1919.
No. 268--Acquitted by Oroville Lodge No. 103. Appeal by
accuser.
No. 269-Suspended by Lodi Lodge No. 256.
No. 270-Expelled by Hiram Lodge No. 43, in 1920.
No. 271-Expelled by Evergreen Lodge No. 259, in 1920. Appeal by accused.
No. 272-Expelled by Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, in 1920. Appeal by accused.
No. 273-Expelled by Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, 1920.
No. 274-Expelled by Eel River Lodge No. 147, in 1920.
No. 275-Expelled in 1891 by Sotoyome Lodge No. 123. Petition for restoration.
No. 276--Expelled in 1920 by Argonaut Lodge No. 461.
No. 84-Expelled in 1910 by Live Oak Lodge No. 61. Petition
for restoration.
No. 277-Expelled August, 1920, by California Lodge No. 1.
No. 278-Expelled August, 1920, by .San Pedro Lodge No. 332.
No. 279-Expelled by Palestine Lodge No. 351, February, 1920.
No. 281-Expelled by East Gate Lodge No. 290, September,
1920.
No. 282- Ex·pelled by Suisun Lodge No. 55, August, 1919.

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Special Communications of Grand Lodge
7. Grand Lodge was convened by order of the Grand Master,
for the purpose and at the times and places following:
October 17, 1919, Victory Lodge No. 474 was duly constituted
and the officers installed by the Grand Master.
October 25, Grand Lodge was convened by R. W. Samuel E.
Burke, Senior Grand ·Warden, who constituted Blythe Lodge No.
473 in ancient form.
·
November 22, Brother Burke repaired to National City and
convened Grand Lodge for the purpose of dedicating the new
Masonic hall at that city.
December 9, at San Francisco, funeral of Past Grand Master
Stevens, conducted by the Grand Master.
The Grand Master corivened Grand Lodge and dedicated the
new Masoniq hall at Fillmore on the 14th of February; the new
Masonic hall at San Jacinto, February 16, and the new Masonic
hall at Buena Park, February 17.
February 25, Grand Lodge was convened at Maricopa, and
the Grand Master dedicated the new Masonic hall at that city.
March 6, Grand Lodge was opened at Yreka, and the Grand
Master on that day laid the cornerstone of the Yreka Grammar
School.
April 6, at Masonic Temple, San Francisco, funeral of George
P. Adams, Grand Tiler.
May 15, Grand Lodge convened at Sacramento, where the
Grand Master, in the presence of a large gathering of brethren,
solemnly dedicated the new Masonic Temple.
June 25, Grand Lodge was convened a.t Whitt.ier and th~ Grand
Master laid the cornerstone of the pubhc hospital, the gift of a
brother to the city.
August 19, Grand Lodge convened at Salinas, where th.e Grand
Master laid the cornerstone of the high school at that city.
.
Unfinished Business
8. The following business, unfinished at the last annual communication, was referred to the Committee on General Policy and
Purposes:
The resolution of Past Grand Master Henderson, to consider
whether Lodges should not return to the ancient practice of conducting business while open in the first degree; and
The resolution of Past Grand Master Hervey, providing that
this Grand Lodge approve the constitution of the Masonic Service
Association of the United States and accept membership therein.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

List of Largest Lodges
9. Lodges of the jurisdiction having five hundred or more
members are as follows:
1917
1918
1919
1920
Hollenbeck No. 319........................ 882
967
1,033
1,204
Live Oak No. 61............................ 748
789
833
913
912
Mission No. 169.............................. 896
. 900
903
East Gate No. 290.......................... 725
850
764
784
West Lake No. 392...................... 616
667
818
703
Oakland No. 188............................ 594
641
698
783
South Gate No. 320........................ 719
714
729
766
Sequoia No. 349.............................. 581
620
678
754
Pacific No. 136................................ 670
700
710
737
King Solomon's No. 260 .. ~......... 568
595
635
714
696
Occidental No. 22.......................... 643
638
632
Golden State No. 358.................... 515
562
605
686
667
So. California No. 278.................. 668
676
666
Los Angeles No. 42 .............. ,......... 533
547
588
644
Golden Gate No. 30...................... 560
563
592
636
California No. !.............................. 581
601
619
632
436
617
Hollywood No. 355........................ 400
482
Fidelity No. 120....... ~...................... 568
572
585
598
Pentalpha No. 202.......................... 506
529
581
510
522
507
Crockett No. 139............................ 473
573
510
Silver Gate No. 296...................... 443
466
572
451
471
565
Durant No. 468................................ 435
521
Doric No. 216.................................. 504
506
558
San Diego No. 35 ..... :.................... 419
439
487
540
534
455
481
Naval No. 87.................................... 443
444
532
480
West Gate No. 335........................ 429
424
381
Fruitvale No. 336............................ 339
527
461
488
Excelsior No. 166............................ 426
526
457
Alcatraz No. 244............................ 392
420
526
479
Brooklyn No. 225.......................... 413
439
520
465
472
515
Sunset No. 352................................ 447
432
Berkeley No. 363............................ 368
385
507
Totals ........................................ 17,504

18,281

19,228

21,203

The following will indicate the net gains each two years since
1906, the membership being shown in the first line:
1906 1908 1910 i912 1914 1916 1918 1920
Membership 33,769 38,669 43,675 48,315 53,179 57,856 64,095 76,873
Gain each two yrs ..... 4,900 5,006 4,640 4,864 4,677 6,239 12,778

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALil!'ORNIA

Courtesy Work
10. An unhealthy practice has grown up, possibly a relic of
conditions existing during the world-war, whereby Lodges of this
jurisdiction as well as of sister jurisdictions, request that degrees
be conferred upon candidates as courtesy to the requesting Lodge.
As a matter of fact, the requests are made to favor candidates who
might better receive their degrees in the Lodge of their election.
One grand jurisdiction, Pennsylvania, requires that petitioners must
receive their degrees in the Lodge of their election, and I heartily
commend that practice, notwithstanding it may occasionally work
a real hardship on some worthy candidates. Within the year our
Lodges have asked Lodges of other jurisdictions to confer 312
degrees, and we have extended like courtesies, without fee, to the
extent of conferring 1188 degrees. ·

7. Masonic Temple Association, rent September, 1919..
lS0.00
8. Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C. ................
31.2S
9. John· Which er, postage stamps, $6.63; telegrams,
$4.24; expressage, $3.62; changes on addressograph, 84c; record book, $1.70....................................
17.03
10. Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues ................................
1L7S
11. Pacific T. & T ., rent........................................................
8.4S
12. N ea! Publishing Co., 500 lists of questions ................
13.7S
13. Schwabacher-Frey Co., 1 de Luxe binder ....................
2.70
14. M. H. Flint, account of Endowment Drive ................
14.15
lS. H. C. Magnus Co., stamp pad and ink..~ ....................
2.7S
16. Kleyn & Foulds, inspection typewriter ........................
I.SO
17. T. J . Baker, expenses to August 28, 1919....................
144.46
18. John Whicher, salary, September, 1919........................
3SO.OO
19. T. J. Baker, salary, September, 1919............................
2SO.OO
20. H. S. Johnson, salary, September, 1919........................
200.00
21. M. Van Buskirk, salary, September, 1919....................
7S.OO
22. Masonic Temple Association, rent, October, 1919....
lS0.00
23. Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C. ................
2S.OO
24. John Which er, postage stamps, $36.00; expi:essage,
$5.17; telegrams, $3.2S ....................................................
44.42
25. Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues, $25.SO; second
sheets, $3.SO; mileage tags, $4.75................................
33.7S
26. Shannon-Conmy Co., 17SO 2c envelopes, $46.SO; 600
blank information requests, $S.2S ................................
Sl.75
27. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, wrapping paper and twine
6.80
28. Rabjohn & Morcom, 1.frame ............................................
1.9S
29. Pacific T . & T. Co., rent.. ..............................................
8.90
30. H. S. Crocker, city directory ........................................
8.00
31. Phillips & Van Orden, lSOO programs Grand Lodge
28.7S
32. F. W. Wentworth Co., 6000 cards ................................
34.00
33. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriter........................
I.SO
34. Neal Publishing Co., 1480 Constitutions ........................
780.00
3S. Yawman & Erbe Co., tray and guides ........................
4.70
36. Gabriel, Meyerfeld Co.,, sundry blanks ........................
107.25
37. T. J. Baker, expenses to September 2S, 1919................
130.7S
38. May Prosser, account of Endowment Drive................
20.00
39. J. M. Whited, Chairman Committee on Correspondence ......................................................................................
200.00
40. E. S. Valentine, auditing books of Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer......................................................
S0.00
41. John H. McGehee, pay of members.............................. 8,049.62
42. San Francisco Board of Relief, appropriation ............ 4,122.02
43. Los Angeles Board of Relief, appropriation ............ 6,000.00
44. San Diego Board of Relief, appropriation .................... 1,67S.oo

100

Emergency Relief Fund
11. But one draft has been drawn against the Eme'rgency Relief Fund since the last annual communication, being for $SOO fo1
the relief of hungry children at Vienna, to be distributed by Dr.
Schlessinger, Grand Master, at Vienna. The condition of the fund
is now as follows:
Balance on. hand per report of 1919, cash ................$4,S43.61
3~ Liberty bonds ............................................................. 4,000.00
.
$8,S43.61
December lS, 1919, interest on bonds......................................
70.00
December 31, 1919, interest bank deposit... ....................~;: ......
90.86
June 16, 1920, interest on bonds .................................................:.:
70.00
June 30, 1920, interest bank deposit..., ...............................:....,.
94.08 •

July 14, 1920, food drafts, Vienna.............:.......:......................

$8,868.SS
500.00

Balance no~ in fund, rating bonds.. af par value .......... $8,368.SS
Detail of Warrants . Drawn
During the year ending July 31, 1920, I have drawn warrants
against the Grand Treasurer as follows:
Wa'l'rant
No.
1. Arthur J . Ritter, expenses survey children Covina....$ lS0.00
2. John Whicher, expenses account Peace Jubilee
England ...........................:..................................................
28S.OO
350.00
3. John Whicher, salary, Augu~t, 1919................................
2S0.00
4. T. J. Baker, salary, August, 1919....................................
200.00
S. H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1919...........,....................
75.00
6. M. Van Buskirk, salary, August, 1919............................

101

102
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Oakland Board of Relief, appropriation........................
646.79
Sacramento Board of Relief, appropriation................
366.00
Masonic Homes of California, appropriation ........, .., 11,755.44
Masonic Temple Association, 2500 shares of stock .... 25,000.00
Geo. P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler........................
150.00
S. D. Mayer, salary as 'Grand Organist....................
100.00
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269, appropriation account
J. C. McGill .............................................:........................
156.30
52. Chas. A. Adams, contingent expenses Grand Master 1,500.00
53. D. B. Miller, appropriation account design of
200.00
memorial ...........................c.................................................
54. San Jacinto Lodge, appropriation .................................... 4,000.00
400.00
55. John Whicher, salary, October, 1919............................
56. T . J. Baker, salary, October, 1919................................
300.00
225.00
57. H. S. Johnson, salary, October, 1919..............................
58. M. Van Buskirk, salary, October, 1919........................
90.00
59. Masonic Temple Association, rent, November,
300.00
$150.00 ; Annual Communication, $150.00..................
60. W. N. Brunt, 1700 cards Credentials Committee,
58.75
$14.00; receipts for dues, $44.75 ................................
8.98
61. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.. ..............................................
62. Ruckstell & Land, checking accounts of Grand
75.00
Treasurer .................................................. ,.......................
15.00
63. H. F . Wright, assistant to Grand Tiler ........................
341.25
64. Johnson & Wood, 5-piece tea set for Grand Master
4.00
65. A. L. Auradou, engrossing charters ................................
66. A. Meese, 1000 letterheads, $23.50; 500 2c envelopes,
39.00
$15.50 ....................................................................................
67. John Whicher, expressage, 44c; batteries and buzzer,
90c; repairs rubber stamps, 75c; telegrams, $47.91;
10.60
keys, 60c ............................................................................
1.50
68. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriter........................
2.25
69. Star Towel Supply Co., rent ............................................
43.43
70.· T. J. Baker, expenses to October 10, 1919.:..............
6.00
71. F. Watson, tiling schools of instruction ........................
4:25
72. Geo. P. Adams, petty expenses as Grand Tiler ............
1.95
73. J. S. Godeau, · 1 dozen gloves.:..........................................
6.00
74. Savings Union & Trust Co., rent safe deposit box ....
211.58
75. John Whicher, balance pay roll... ...................................
200.00
76. Bradford Webster, expenses as Grand Master ............
9.00
77. · Alhambra Water Depot, water ........................................
168.43
78. M. H. Flint, account Endowment Drive....................
12.50
79. Durant Lodge No. 268, account Mrs. C.........................
25.00
80. Fletcher Tilton, organist at Grand Lodge ....................
400.00
81. John Whicher, salary, November, 1919........................

GRAND LODGE OI•' CALIFORNIA •

82.
83.
84.
85.
86.

T. J. Baker, salary, November, 1919..............................
H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1919........................
M. Van . Buskirk, salary, November, 1919.................. ..
Masonic Temple Association, rent, December, 1919
Walter N. Brunt, 70,000 copies American's Creed,
$140.00; 1000 price lists, $9.00 ; receipts for dues
$1.19.00 ...............................................................................:
87. Alhambra Water Depot, water ........................................
88. Yawman & Erbe, card case and tray, folde rs and
guides ..................................................................................
89. M. Tower, washing aprons and gloves ........................
90. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriter........................
91. Shannon-Conmy Co., 425 lists of rejections, $32.50;
8000 ballots, $3.50; 750 clasp envelopes, $15.85;
2500 2c envelopes, $68.50..............................................
92. Gabriel, Meyerfeld Co., 1100 circulars ........................
93. Neal Publishing Co., 2000 amendments to Constitution ..................................................................................
94. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.. ................................................ ..
95. MacRorie & McLaren, basket flowers S. D. Mayer
96. John Whicher, postage stamps, $84.90 ; expressage,
$4.06; drayage, $3.00; 2 rubber stamps, $1.40; telegrams, $1.65 ......................................................................
97. T. J. Baker, expenses to November 26. 1919................
98. John Whicher, salary, December. 1919...........................
99. T. J. Baker, salary, December, 1919.............................,..
100. H . S. Johnson, salary, December, 1919........................
101. M. Van Buskirk, salary, December, 1919............:.......
102. Masonic Temple Association, rent, January, 1920....
103. Durant Lodge No. 268, account Mrs. C. ........................
104. Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues ................................
105. Gabriel, Meyerfeld Co., blanks ........................................
106. John Whicher, postage stamps, $113.97; drayage,
$2.00 ; telegram, $1.45 ......................................................
107. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, twine, note books, etc.... .
108. Levin's Flower Shop, floral piece, Easton funeral.. ..
109. Pacific T. & T. Co. rent
110. N ea! Publishing Co'., wr;~;·i~;··~~~~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
111. Barden Printing Co., labels and postal cards ............
112. Eagle Taxi Co., 3 autos, Stevens funeral
113. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters .... ::::::::::::::::::::
114. L. Larson, singing Stevens funeral................................
·115. Yawman & Erbe Co., card case and guides ................
116. Shannon-Conmy Co., 2000 summary of proceedings,
$185.00; 1000 monitors, $225.00; 425 lists o f rejec-

!OJ

300.00
225.00
90.00
150.00

268.00
3.00
14.50
52.22

I.SO
120.35
31.00
20.00
12.80
7.50
95.01
144.65
400.00
300.00
225.00
90.00
150.00
31.25
69.50
57.50
117.42
2.35
10.00
9.91
3.SU

18.75
31.00
1.50
10.00
1.60

104

PROCEEDINGS' OF THE

tions, $2S.OO; SOO clasp envelopes, $9.7S; 1000 certificates of election, $16.SO; 300 sheets wrapping
paper, $7.2S; 1000 2c envelopes, $17.0IL..................
49S.50
117. T. J. Baker, expenses to December 23, 1919................
S9.74
118. John Whicher, salary, January, 1920............................
400.00
119. T. J. Baker, salary, January, 1920................................
300.00
120. H. S. Johnson, salary, January, 1920.........................,..
22S.OO
121. M. Van Buskirk, salary, January, 1920........................
90.00
122. Masonic Temple Association, rent, February, 1920....
lS0.00 '
123. Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C. ................
S0.00
124. S. F. Examiner, ad Stevens funeral... .............................
3.30
12S. S. F. Chronicle, ad Stevens funeral... .............................
3.30
126. Star Towel Supply Co., rent.. ..........................................
2.2S
127. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.. ....................., ..........................
9.36
128. Taxicab Co. of Cal., taxi Stevens funeral... ...............
10.00
129. Irvine & Jachens, dating stamp ......................................
S.00
130. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, office supplies........................
lS.OS
131. Donaldson Printing Co., SOO circulars..........................
4.00
132. Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., 1300 . proceedings,
$1689.00; 1000 bill heads, $10.00; lSOO 2c envelopes,
$41.SO ..............................................,.................................c.. 1,740.SO
133. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters...............;........
I.SO
134. W. N. Brunt, 2000 second sheets, $8.00; receipts for
dues, $157.SO ................................................ _..................
165.50
13S. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait Webster............................
12S.OO
136. T. J. Baker, expenses to January 30, 1920.................. ..
98.4S
7.3S
137. Yawman & Erbe Co., trays and guides........................
138. A. Meese, SOO second sheets............................................
6.SO
139. Gabriel, Meyerfeld Co., Sl 2 Installation books,
$220.00; half-tone cut of seal, $6.00; 2000 <limit
blanks, $19.2S ....................................................................
24S.2S
140. John Whicher, telegram, 46c; postage stamps, $84.00;
drayage, $10.00 .:..............................................................
94.46
1S3.2S
141. Braden Printing Co., SOO Secretary's Hand Books ....
142. J. F. Johnson, account Education Committee ............
10.00
89.33
143. I. J. Mitchell, account Education Committee..............
400.00
144. John Whicher, salary, February, 1920............................
14S. T. J: Baker, salary, February, 1920................................
300.00
22S.OO
146. H . S. Johnson, salary, February, 1920............................
147. M. Van Buskirk, salary, February, 1920........................
90.00
148. Masonic Temple Association, rent, March, 1920........
lS0.00
31.7S
149. Gabriel, Meyerfeld Co., 8000 blanks ..............................
1SO. John Which er, postage stamps, $20.79; telegram,
70c; drayage, $3.00 ..........................................................
24.49
!Sl. · H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph changes................
6.09

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

105

1S2.

N ea! Publishing Co., S913 Constitutions, $3293.40;
1000 sacred rolls, $12.50................................................
1S3. Walter N. Brunt, 200 letterheads (Masonic Education), $19.7S; receipts for dues, $63.7 S....................
1S4. Pacific T.- & T. Co., rent....................................................
lSS. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriter........................
156. Donaldson Printing Co., 1000 letter heads................
1S7. A. Meese, SOO 2c envelopes ............................................
1S8. B. M. Joseph, floral piece Stevens ................................
1S9. John Breuner Co., cover for box..................................
160. Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to ma. chine ....................................................................................
161. T. J. Baker, expenses to February 2S, 1920................
162. H. D. Loveland, account of rebate. on R. R. fares ....
163. John Whicher, salary, March, 1920................................
164. T. ]. Baker, salary, March, 1920.................................:..
16S. H . S. Johnson, salary, March, 1920................;...............
166. M. Van Buskirk, salary, March, 1920............................
167. Masonic Temple Association, rent, April, 1920........
168. Shannon-Conmy Co., 600 ros,ters, $467.7S ; SOO 2c
envelopes, $13.SO ..............................................................
169. Neal, Stratford & Kerr, SO bound volumes Proceedings ...............................................................:......................
170. Gabriel, Meyerfeld Co., 2S,OOO blanks ..........................
171. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters......................
172. Shannon-Conmy Co., 2SO clasp envelopes, $S.OO; 400
lists of rejections, $S2.SO; SOO clasp envelopes,
$9.00; 300 sheets wrapping paper, $7.2S; 1000 2c
envelopes, $27.SO ..............................................................
173. Schmidt Lithograph Co., 202S Diplomas ....................
174. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.. ...................................:..............
17S. Pettibone Bros., 1 Masonic flag ...................:..................
176. W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues .......................... ~.............
177. John Whicher, postage stamps, $S.72; expressage,
$9.76 ; drayage, $1.00; multigraphing letters, $1.2S;
telegrams, $1.6S ..............................................................
178. Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C.................
179. Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master........................
180. T. J. Baker, expenses to March 26, 1920........................
181. John Whicher, salary, April, 19;l0..................................
182. T. J . Baker, salary, April, 1920......................................
183. H. S. Johnson, salary, April, 1920..................................
184. M. Van Buskirk, salary, April, 1920................................
18S. Masonic Temple Association ............................................
186. Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C.................

3,30S.90
83.SO
9.00
I.SO
12.7S
lS.SO
20.00
4.80
.S.20
116.0S
24.60
400.00
300.00
22S.OO
90.00
150.00
481.2S
138.00
124.00
1.50

101.2S
471.83 .
10.71
8.SO
64.7S

19.38
25.00
lS.00
113.73
400.00
300.00
22S.OO
90.00
lS0.00
2S.OO

•

106
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.

•

193.
194.
19S.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
20S.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
21S.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.

PROCEEDINGS OF TH.I!.

Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master........................
Yawman & Erbe, card case and guides ........................
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ................................................
Lion Bonding & Surety Co., premium on schedule
bonds ..................................................................................
T. J . Baker, expenses to April 18, 1920..,.....................
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ..................................................................................
Francis K. Smith, 1000 mimeo letters........ :...............
Isaac Upham Co., SOO receipt holders............................
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriter....................... .
George R. Armstrong, 100 mailing tubes ....................
Shannon-Conmy Co., 42S lists of rejections, $38.SO;
1000 monitors, $2SO.OO; ISOO 2c envelopes, $40.SO ....
Neal, Stratford & Kerr, gold seals, transfer files,
ink, pens, twine, etc.........:...............................................
A. Meese, 2000 letterheads ............................................... .
E. & M. Teahon, stenographic work, Masonic Education ..................................................................................
I. J . Mitchell, R. R. fare and postage, Masonic Edµcation ..................................................................................
Rabjohn & Morcom, frame portrait Webster............
Star Towel Supply Co., rent ............................................
Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit box ..............
Walter N . Brunt, _receipts for dues ................................
F. W. Wentworth Co., 100 guides................................
John Whicher, telegrams, $2.13; cable, $1.70; expressage, $9.82; postage stamps, $S0.4S ....................
Pantagraph Printing Co., 42S Lists of Lodges ............
Alhambra Water Co., water..............................................
F. R. Clark, floral piece, Adams ......................................
S. F. Examiner, funeral, Adams ....................................
John Whicher, salary, May, 1920....................................
T. J . Baker, salary, May, 1920...............................L........
H. S. J ohnson, salary, May, 1920....................................
M. Van Buskirk, salary, May, 1920................................
Masonic Temple Association, rent, June, 1920..........
Walter N . Brunt, receipts for dues ............................:.....
J ohn Whicher, laund rying gloves, $1.33 ; expressage,
$6.12; drayage, $3.00; revenue stamps, $2.00............
S. F. Chronicle, funeral, Adams ......................................
Chas. M. Plur~ Co., cleaning rug......................................
Phillips & Van Orden Co., 2000 cards ............................
Brumfield E lec. Sign Co., 1 heater................................
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ........................

GHANO LOD<1El OF CALll<"OHNlA

1S.00
2.80
9.30
98S.12
29.18
S.20
8.7S
110.00
I.SO
8.2S
329.00
27.91
30.00
19.60
11.18
3S.OO
2.2S
6.00
60.75
S.00
64.10
158.98
3.50
10.00
2.40
400.00
300.00
22S.OO
90.00
lS0.00
104.2S
13.7S
2.40
7.SO
14.50
12.50
1.50

224.
22S.
226.
227.
228.
229.

107

Pacific T. & T . Co., rent ....................................................
8.6S
Yawman & Erbe Co., trays and guides........................
7.40
Samuels Co., bread tray ....................................................
8.93
T . J . Baker, expenses to May 23, 1920........................
108.57
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 200 diplomas ..........................
80.00
H. S. Johnson, for Mrs. E. K . H., order of Grand
Master ................................................................................
lS.00
230. Durant Lodge No. 268, for Mrs. C. .......-.......................
S0.00
231. A. J. Ritter, expenses, survey of children, Covina ....
lS0.00
232. John Which er, salary, June, 1920....................................
400.00
233. T. J. Baker, salary, June, 1920 ........................................
300.00
234. H. S. Johnson, salary, June, 1920.........................:..........
22S.OO
23S. M. Van Buskirk, salary, June, 1920................................
90.00
236. Masonic Temple Association, rent, July, 1920..............
lS0.00
237. Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C.................
2S.OO
238. Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master ........................
IS.00
239. T. J. Baker, expenses to J une 23, 1920........................
93.70
240. Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues ................................
39.50
9.03
241. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ..............................:.....................
242. Werner Bros., repairing vessels, · corn, wine and oil
lS.00
243. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriter........................
I.SO
244. H. S. Crocker Co., changes on addressograph ............
1.08
24S. John Whicher, postage stamps, $164.49 ; expressage,
$2.00 .................................................................................... . 166.49
246. N ea!, Stratford & Kerr, loose leaf ledger, $30.S8;
34.93
$4.93 .:..................................................................................
247. Yawman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ..............
4.80
248. John Whicher, salary, July, 1920....................................
400.00
249. T. J. Baker, salary, July, 1920..........................................
300.00
2SO. H . S. Johnson, salary, July, 1920....................................
22.5.00
2SI. M. Van Buskirk, salary, July, 1920...............•................
90.00
252. Masonic Temple Association, rent, August, 1920......
150 00
253. Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C.................
2S.OO
2S4. .Mrs. C. K. H., order of Grand Master ........................
lS.00
2SS. Star Towel Supply Co., rent t o July 1, 1920............... .
2.2S
2S6. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent... .................................................
9.SS
. 1.50
2S7. K leyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ........................
2S8. Shannon-Co nmy Co., 2000 inspector's letterheads,
$13.75; 1000 2c envelopes, $27.50; 1000 envelopes
for annual returns, $13.00 ; SOO certificates, $12.SO ;
42S lists of rejections, etc., $SO.OO; 2000 address
labels, $7.00; one-half ream wrapping paper, $7.SO .131.2S
2S9. Gabriel, Meyerfeld Co., 2000 notices of suspension ....
10.SO
260. William P. Filmer, salary for year ................................
200.00
261. Walter N. Brunt, SOO circula rs, $7.00; receipts for
dues, $S8.2S ....................................................................... .
6S.25
0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Neal, Stratford & Kerr, 4944 Constitutions, $2042.80;
book for annual returns, $24.00; cash book, $27.50 2,894.30
9.90
Yawman
& Erbe, card cases and guides......................
263.
19.15
264. Francis K. Smith, multigraphing....................................
100.45
265. T. J. Baker, expenses to July 23, 1920........................
266. John Which er, postage stamps, $8.00; expressage,
12.46
$4.46 ··················································•·································
17.45
267. A. L. Johnston, account Masonic Education ............

262.

Total ....................................................$97,272.14

Cash Receipts
The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of California for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1920 :
Dues from Subordinate Lodges-General Fund, $66,139.30; Representativ~ Fund, $9,581.55 ....................$ 75,720.85
Charter Fees ..................................................................................
100.00
Dispensations to Form Lodges ............................................:... 1,125.00
Special Dispensations for Various Purposes........................
330.00
Premium Collected on Bonds of Secretaries and Treasurers .................................................................................. 1,013.96
25.00
Refund from Kentucky ................................................................
156.30
Refund from New York ..................... ·-················:··--····················
252.20
Refund fr.o m Illinois ......................................................................
30.00
Refund from North Dakot.a ........................................................
Sales for the Year:
Constitutions .......................................................................... 7,489.75
799.75
Receipts for . Dues ..................................................................
352.50
Monitors ...................................................................................
156.75
Holders ....................................................................................
7.30
Proceedings .............................................................................
29.10
Card Cases and Guides ....................................,...................
6.00
Lists of Regular Lodges ....................................................
17.50
Bound Volumes ....................................................................
26.00
Funeral Services ....................................................................
413.65
·Blanks and Cards ................................................................
330.00
Diplomas (large) .....................................................•............
254.00
Diplomas (small) ..................................................................

- ---

Total Receipts General Fund ............................................$ 88,635.61
Total Receipts Home Maintenance Fund.................... {)5,167.00
Total Receipts Home Building Fund.............................. 32,583.50
Amounting in the Aggregate to ................................$186,386.11

109

All which has been paid to the Grand Treasurer, as per receipt ~
on file in this office, and as should be shown by .·his report.
Interest on bonds and deposits has been co llected by the
Grand Treasurer as follows :
Interest on Deposits with Banks.........."..................$ 443.18
Seven Blue Lake Water Co. Bonds........................ 420.00
Six Southern Pacific 4% Refunding Bonds.......... 240.00
Nine California .Gas & Electric 5% Bonds........ · 450.00
Eight Tel. & Tel. 5% Bonds.................................... 400.00
Two Los Angeles Gas & E lectric 5% Bonds.... 100.00
U. S. Government Bonds ($46,800) ...................... 2,010.25
- - - $ 4,063.43
Total Receipts from all sources for the year ending
July 31, 1920......................::............................................$190,449.54

Recapitulation....:..Ceneral Fund
Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1919........................$ 6,264.08
Receipts by Grand Secretary.................................................... 88,635.61
Interest on Bonds and Deposits ...;............................................ 4,063.43
Total ...............................................~ ..........................................$ 98,963.12
Less Warrants Nos. 1 to 267 .................................................... 97,272.14
Balance with Grand T reasurer July 31, 1920................$

1,690.98

Receipts Since August 1, 1920
For the period August 1, 1920, to October 7, 1920, inclusive,
I have collected and paid to t he Grand Treasurer the sum of $290,427.50, segregated as follows :
Home Maintenance Fund.............~ ................:.........".........~ ..........$ 76,169.00
H ome Building ·Fund:..:........:....................................................... 38,084.50
$20.00 Home Contributions........................................................ 77,620.00
General Fund ................................................................................ 87,508.80
Representative Fund .................................................................... 11,045.20
Total ...........................................................................................$290,427.50

110

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODG!l: OF CALIFORNIA

111

War Fund
Receipts
July 31, 1919-Bal.ance Cash on Hand ....................................$36,294.12
United States Bonds, 4y.(% .........·-·················· 25,000.00
$61,294.12
July 31, 1920-Bank Interest for Year....................................
670.06
Bond Interest for Year....................................
590.15
Sept. 13, 1920-Reimbursement ..................................................
100.00
$62,654.33
Disbursements
Various Relief~ ...............................:........•...............-.,.$ 920.58
3.25
M ultigraphing .L etters ..............................................
Temple Club, Vallejo ....................~.............................
30.90
Soldier Memorial-Engrossing................................
20.00
Printing .................................... 1,048.50
Expressage ··············-··············
4.64
Postage ....................................
6.90
*Appropriation to Masonic H omes ...................... 55,000.00
- - - $57,034.77
Balance in Fund .................................................................... $ 5,619.56
*Of the $55,000 appropriated October, 1919, to the Masonic
Homes, $25,000 consisted of United S tates bonds.
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

Referred to the same Committee as that to which had
been referred the Message of the Grand Master.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 :30 o'clock,
to then meet at the Lodgeroom of the San Francisco
Scottish Rite bodies.

Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 12, 1920.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, at Scottish
Rite Temple, the Grand Master presiding.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND MASTER'S
MESSAGE
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California..
Brethren:
Your committee to which was referred the Message of the
Grand Master and the Annual Report of the Grand Secretary,
has had the same under consideration, and now reports as follows:
Grand Master's Message
After a careful consideration of the substance as well as the
text of this important document, your committee is persuaded
that it will be accepted not only at this time, but also in the years
to come, as one of the most notable addresses ever presented to
this Grand Body. Charming in it.s textual style, it may well be
considered a distinctive contribution to Masonic literature; and
in that respect alone, your committee is confident that it will be
read and re-read, not only by those here present, but by the
members of the Craft throughout this and sister jurisdictions, with
ever increasing pleasure and delight.
But the outstanding merit of the message is attached not to
its literary excellence but rather to the clear, lucid and inspiring
presentation of the Grand Master's conclusions, recommendatio ns
a nd suggestions touching subjects intimately associated with the
welfare of the F raternity.
As indicated by the Message of the Grand Master and the
Report of the Grand Secretary, the Fraternity, during the year
now closing, has experienced an unprecedented growth in number
of new. Lodges, and also in the numbe r of those who have been
accepted as worthy to become members of the Craft. The rapid
augmentation of our membership and the steady increase in the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

number of .Lodges promote, of course, a steady expansion of the
influence of Free Masonry. As the influence of our Fraternity
increases, its responsibilities niultiply. It follows, therefore, from
year to year, that the duties of our succeeding Grand Masters
become more trying and exacting.

or particular measures. The Grand Master has spoken in terms
so clear and explicit that uisconception would appear to be
well-nigh impossible ; and yet, perhaps, the thought of some
brethren has experienced confusion.

112

It might be deemed appropriate for this committee to exercise
only the simple ' f.atiction of referring to the . several standing committees of Grand Lodge those sections of the Message which will
properly go to them for extended consideration; but it has been
suggested that it may without impropriety point out, for purposes
of emphasis, certain sections which would appear to be of special
importance. It is in accordance with the spirit of the suggestion
thus referred to that the following matters are here m entioned:
Politics.-Under the caption "Politicks,'' the Grand Master
calls to the attention of Grand Lodge matters which, in the opinion
of your committee, are of such weight. as to merit the most serious
consideration of the Craft. . Our Institution, in this jurisdiction,
has attained to a great membership and an excellent organization.
It possesses, therefore, a tremendous though peculiar power,_ the
nature of which, we fear, is all too frequently misunderstood. It
is not surprising, therefore, that some Masons, actuated by sincere
motives, should mistake the tangible organization of Masonry for
its intangible power to promote unity among its votaries, and
attach themselves to the false belief that Masonry can remain
Masonry and yet, as an .organizatio.n, function in the determination
of political, civic, social, industrial and religious questions. To
brethren ~f this erroneous opinion we would commend the language
in the old Charges of 1722:
No· private piques or quarrels must be brought
within the door of the Lodge, far less any quarrels
about religion, or nations, or State policy. * * * We
are of all nations, tongues, kindreds and languages,
and are resolved against all politics, as what never yet
conduced to the welfare of the Lodge, nor ever will.
The Grand Master has sought to impress upon Mason&
throughout the jurisdiction the importance of informing themselves, as individuals, with reference to .public affairs. He has
urged them to a quicker interest in the duties of citizenship. He
has commended to them certain specific subjects as especially
deserving of their attention. The facilities of the Institution have
been employed to impart inspiration and enlightenment to the
individual, but w ith no intent that any individual should in turn
seek to commit the Institution to· the formal support. of persons

113

Instances of ill-advised ·action on the part of Lodges, or
officers of Lodges, have been rare indeed. Your committee is confident that insofar as Craft Masonry is concerned, the sound
judgment of the great body of our membership, and its attachment to the true ideals and purposes of Masonry, will stand as sure
·defenses against impropriety of action .o r rashness of counsel.
T_here is perceiv~ble, however, the operation of a certain spirit
which. is manifesting itself occasionally in ill-considered measures
and · proposals by organizations restricting their' membership to
Mas,t er Ma~ons, and representing t hemselves to be Masonic, or
"branches of Masonry." The . Grand Master has specifically
pointed out the regrettable political propaganda recently promoted
in . the name of Jinnistan Grotto in Los Angeles, and has also
stated his reasons for disapproving of the proposed organization
of a particular "Masonic" industrial association in Humboldt
county. Your committee agrees unreservedly with the observations
of his Message with respect to these matters, and therefore recommends that, by the adoption of this report, his attitude toward
·both these cases, and his action in one, be approve&.
Crafts Councils.-In this connection, the Grand Master has
this committee, with a request that it report thereon,
.the matter of the so-called "Government Crafts Councils," which
are under the jurisdiction. of the "Supreme Council of Craftsmen."
T h e Craftsmen represent their institution as an "operative branch
of · Masonry."
ref~rr.ed to

Your committee · has not been acquainted with the details of
the history appertaining to the Governing Crafts Councils and the
Supreme Council of Craftsmen,· but understands that they are
outgrowths of a movement which originated in the Electrical
Crafts in San Francisco. It appears t hat a number of our brethren,
employed in the electrical trades, felt it would be to their advantage
to form an organization having for its purpose mutual protection.
It was their desire .to see that th e Masons belo nging to these
trades were regularly employed, and to guard against discrimination, which in some instances, is said to have been practiced against
them. To objects such as these, commendable in themselves,
there could be no objection whatever. It appears, h owever, that
those connected with the original m ovement beca~ e imbued with
a vision of larger . accomplishments, and with a hope of attaining

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

thereto, they established the Governing Crafts Councils as secret
societies subordinate to a Supreme Council of Craftsmen, which
was organized in December, 1916, in San Francisco. The brethren
made the mistake of sehing themselves up, without the shadow of
sanction, as the founders of an "operative branch of Masonry,"
and then adopted principles which, in some respects, are insupportable from the Masonic point of view. A ritual was formulated
covering two degrees in the Governing Crafts Councils and one
degree in the Supreme Council of Craftsmen. This ritual is a
strange jumble of inconsistencies and conflicts between teachings
which on the one hand might be approved by Masons, and which
on the other hand are deeply tinged with semi-radicalism. Considered as a whole, it appears to be an amateurish work, ill-considered, poorly balanced and, indeed, very objectionable.

which will almost certainly result in bripging serious discredit upon
the Institution of Free Masonry. In the opinion of your committee. Grand Lodge should not hesitate to take such action as is
calculated to free the Fraternity from a menace of this kind. We
say this without desire to injure the se~sibilities of the brethren
who may be associated with the Craftsmen. We believe that in
the exuberance of zeal they have failed to consider · the dangers
attendant upon their course.

114

Active membership in this organization is definitely restricted
to Blue Lodge Masons who "are actually employed at some trade
or calling whereby they earn their living." Associate membership
is granted to Blue Lodge Masons who are-we quote-"indirectly
connected or employed at some trade or calling whereby they
earn their living." This does not include the professions, financiers or speculators, but includes those who are directly connected
with industrial production. The laws of the organization ·also
provide that no Mason is eligible to membership "who is opposed
to, or who is antagonistic to organized labor, or who in any
manner lends his aid, moral or financial , to accomplish its destruction." It is an · announced principle of the organiza!ion that its
members are actively to co-operate and assist one another not
only in connection with securing positions of profit, but also in
connection with political affairs. They are also to co-operate
actively in the politics of labor unions in which they may hold
membership, and initiates are admonished that "no sluggards, no
drones, nor any incompetent craftsmen can expect to remain
among them." Any member whose sympathies depart from this
sort of program is to be led out of the Lodge publicly and de!lied
all further communication. The organization, which asserts, evidently with respect to this country, that "a J>retense of democracy
now prevails," pledges its members to "aid and assist all nations
and peoples to govern themselves under a free democracy of
the people."
Your committee has sketched these points briefly. There are
many others that might well be mentioned; but for the purpose
of brevity we believe these are sufficient to indicate most clearly
that an institution of this sort, advertising and representing itself
as "Masonic" or "a branch of Masonry" is destined to a career

\15

Your committee therefore recommends that Grand Lodge
enact such legislation as will result -;n · making it a Masonic offense
for brethren of this jurisdiction to become members of or to
retain membership in said Governing Crafts Councils . and said
·supreme Council of Craftsmen , so long as said organizations continue in any manner whatsoever, either in their ritual or otherwise,
to represent said organizations as a branch of Masonry. Your
committee also recommends that the matter ·be referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence to prepare suitable legislation in
accordance with the foregoing recommendations.
Public Schools.-That Masons are supporters and defenders of
the public schools goes without saying, During the year, due to
the efforts of the Grand Master and other Grand Officers, the
Committee on Masonic Education, the Inspectors and the officei;s
of Lodges, there has been a notable revival of Masonic interest in
the subject of public education. The general developments in this
connection have been adequately presented in the Grand Master's
Message, and it is to be presumed will receive further attention in
the report of the Committee on Masonic Education . Your committee takes this opportunity. most heartily to applaud the
accomplishments recorded. It believes that great good will result.
At this point we des.ire, however, to offer, one or two suggestions.
Masonry in this jurisdiction is committed to the suppoi:-t ancl
defense of the public school system; but it is not and should not
be committed, as an Institution, to the support of particular
measures merely because they purport to be for the benefit of the
public schools. We can be unitedly for the public schools and
yet divide as to the merit or advisability of particular measures
relative thereto, just as we can be unitedly for the United States
Government and yet divide on measures respecting its welfare.
It would be unfortunate, if not calamitous, if Masonry were to
conceive itself bound to prosecute propaganda in behalf of all
measures and proposals advertised as "for the benefit of the
schools;" for , it is not of record that proposed school legislation,
or any other sort of proposed legislation, proceeds from the Fount
of Divine Wisdom. Your committee believes with the Grand

FROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master, that it is the duty of a Mason not to accept ready-made
opinions in regard· to such matters, but rather to give each proposal
careful, painstaking study and investigation, and to cast his vote
or govern his actions in accordance with his unprejudiced
convictions.
Secondly, it is of supreme importance that in our advocacy of
public education we should guard carefully, lest by an unregulated
zeal we fall into false conceptions of the real issues involved.
The Grand Master, we believe, has clearly and convincingly treated
this delicate subject, and he has brought to it, also, the illuminating observations of our late Brother _Theodore Roosevelt. You~
committee is in heartiest accord with the Message of the Grand
Master as to this matter, and commends his enlightened policy
to the full approval of the Craft for its guidan~e. .
.·
Your Committee recommends reference of the Gr~nd Master's
Message as follows:
Recommendations for New Legislation: to the Committee on
Jurisprudence and the Committee on General Policy and Purposes.
Decisions: to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Dispensations: to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Charges Preferred ai: Direction of Grand Master: to the Committee on Grievances.
Petition of Acacia Lodge: to the Committee on General Policy
and Purposes.
·
U. C. Masonic Club: to the Committee on Finance.
Masonic Service Association : to the Committee on General
Policy and Purposes.
Relations with Sister Jurisdictions: to the Committee on
Correspondence.
York Grand Lodge of Mexico: to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Recognition: to the Committee cin Jurisprudence and the
Committe.e on General Policy and Purposes.
Inspe·c tors, Deputy Grand Lecturers and Deputy Grand
Masters:· to the Committee on General Policy and Purposes ..

We note with satisfaction the granting of twenty dispensations for the formation of new Lodges. Of these new Lodges,
five are located in or contiguous to the city of Los Angeles, five
in the densely populated cities of Alameda, o'akland and Berkeley,
one in San Francisco and one in San Jose. The others are located
in cities 'of smaller population. In other words, twelve of the
twenty new Lodges have been formed in the most populous centers
of the jurisdiction. They represent, in the opinion of your committee, not only a logical ·movement to relieve the pressure o n
previously existing Lodges, due to the great amount of . degree
work shown by the Report, but also a commendable and growing
tendency to strengthen the Institution by enlisting more of its
members in the active' work of Masonry, through the organization
of a greater number of Lodges.
Your committee believes that the recommendation of the
Grand Secretary with reference to courtesy work is most timely,
and that steps should be taken to correct a practice w hich is
becoming burdensome to many of our Lodges.
Your committee recommends reference of the several sections
of the report as follows:
Report of Lodges: to the Committee on Returns.
Lodges Under Dispensation: to the Committee on Charters.
Amendments to By-Laws: to Committee on By-L aws of
Lodges.
Special Dispensations: to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Trial Records: to the Committee on Grievances.
·
Resolution of Past Grand Master Henderson, relative to conducting business in the first degree: to the Committee on General
Policy and Purposes.
Resolution of Past Grand Master Hervey, relative to Masonic
Service Association: to the Committee on General Policy and
Purposes.
Recommendation concerning Courtesy Work: to the Committee on General Policy and Purposes.
·
Statement of Emer-gency Relief Fund: to the Committee on
Finance.
·
·
Statement of War Fund: to the Committee on Finance and the
Committee on General Policy and Purposes.
Fraternally submitted,

116

Report of Grand Secretary
Your committee has also had under consideration the Report
of the Grand Secretary, and reports thereon as foll-0ws:
We compliment the Grand Secretary upon the completeness,
compactness and clarity of his Report, reflecting as it does his·
ever-intimate watchfulness -of the records and affairs of the Fraternity, and the conspicuous ability that characterizes the
administration of his important office.

117

WILL H . FISCHER,

C. H. WHEELER,
WM. PENN HUMPHREYS,
Committee.

Report adopted.

18

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

119

War Fund

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

Receipts

l;rand Treasurer's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements of General Fund for the Year Ending July 31,
1920:
.

Total Receipts ...............•........................................................$ 37,554.33

Receipts

Balance on hand August I, 1919..............................................$ 6,264.08
Grand Secretary .•.......................................................................... 88,635.61
443.18
Bank Interest --······--·---······---·--·-······--·--·-----·------·-···--·-···················
Bond Interest ·········------··.·······------····-.. ·--·--·--··---·-·························-- 3,620.25
Total Receipts ......................•........................:........................$ 98,963.12
Disbursements
Secretary's Warran ts .................................................................... 97 ,272.14
Balance ....................................................................................$ 1.690.98
Cash Balances
San Francisco Savings & Loan 'Society ............$
62.67
Union Trust Co. ....................................................
1,333.86
Crocker National Bank ........................................
294.45
Balance (as above) .............................................................. $
Assets
Cash on hand and in bank ....................................$ 1,690.98
. Bonds:
Seven 6% Blue Lakes Water Co. (Par
value $7000.00) ....................•................•. ,........$ 7,700.00
Six 4% Southern Pacific Railroad · (Par
value $6000.00) ................................................
5,580.00
Nine 5% California Gas & Electric Co. (Par
value $9000.00) -·-------···---·-···---·········-··············· 8,550.00
Eight 5% Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. (Par value
$8000.00) ··········--·--·---·--····-·······························-- 8,000.00
Two 5% Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co.
(Par value $2000.00)........................................
1,860.00
4% % First Liberty Loan Converted............
1,000.00
4% % Second Liberty Loan Converted........ 10,500.00
4%% Third Liberty Loan................................
300.00
4%% Fourth Liberty Loan................................ 35,000.00
Masonic Temple Association ............................ 395,000.00

Balance on hand August 1, 1919..................................... ~ ..........$ 36,294.12
Bank Interest ··········----------·--·-··········--·--·······--······························670.06
Liberty Loan Interest ................................................................
~0.15

1,690.98

Total Assets .......................................................................... $475,180.98

Disbursements

Secretary's Warrants ..............................................$ 2,034.77
Masonic Homes ..................... :.................................. 30,000.00
Total Disbursements ........................................................ $ 32,034.77
Balance .................................................................................. $ 5,519.56
Cash Balance
Crocker National Bank .............................................................. $ 5,519.56
Permanent Endowment Fund
Cash on Hand, August 1, 1919....................................................$ 35,621.42
Receipts
Don11tions ....................................... ,........................$ 28,549.93
Building Fund, Note Paid.................................... 45,800.00
1,000.00
City of Santa Barbara Bond redeemed............
Bequests ...........:...................................................... 6,666.25
Sundry Receipts......................................................
1,372.45

Total Receipts................................................

83,388.63

Total Available ............. :........... ,....................

$119,010.05

Disbursements
$50,000 Second Liberty Loan Bonds ................$ 47,896.89
45,000 Third Liberty Loan Bonds.................. 42,200.00
10,000 Fourth Liberty Loan Bonds................ 8,987.50
Interest received in the years 1917, 1918 and
1919 paid to Maintenance Fund................ 13,186.88

Total Disbursements ................................... .

$112,271.27

Balance ........................................................... .

$ 6,738.78

120

PROCEEDINGS OF TH l;J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORWIA

Composition of Endowment Fund
Cash in Humboldt Savings Bank. .....................$ 4,657.40
Cash to be Deposited............................................ 2,081.38 $ 6,738.78
40% City of Santa Barbara Improvement
Bonds ............................................................. .
4,000.00
40% City of Santa Barbara Water Bonds ... .
11,287.50
6 . % City of Uplands Bonds ........................... .
3,125.00
16,000.00
5 % Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. Bonds ............... .
12,000.00
40% San Francisco Retch Hetchy Bonds ... .
5 % City of Richmond Bonds ....................... .
5,000.00
5 % City and County of San Francisco
Bonds ............................................................... .
2,000.00
5 % City of Ashland Bonds ........................... .
9,000.00
5 % Cal. Gas & Electric ·Co. Bonds ............. .
10,000.00
1,050.00
30% U.S. First Liberty Loan Bonds............
4% % U. S. First Converted Liberty Loan
Bonds ...:.......................................................... 11,300.00
4 % U.S. Second Liberty Loan Bonds........
1,000.00
4%% U . S. Second Converted Liberty Loan
B~nds .............................................................. 67,850.00
4%% U . S. Third Liberty Loan Bonds.......... 48,450.00
4%% U.S. Fourth Liberty Loan Bonds........ 19,850.00
4%% U.S. Fifth Liberty Loan Bonds............ 58,950.00

Entertainment Fund

$208,450.00
Less discount on Bonds purchased.•.......,........ 7,915.61

200,534.39

Total Permanent Endowment Fund
July 31, 1920............................................
$279,685.67
Special Home Fund
Cash on Hand, August 1, 191.9.......................... :................." ···-$ 1,486.37
Receipts
Bank Interest ..........................................................$
72.76
Bond Interest ..............................................:...........
1,117.50
1,190.26
Cash in Humboldt Savings Bank ........... .

$ 2,676.63

Composition Special Home Fund
Cash ....................... ,....................... ,_......•......,. ...........$ 2,676.63
5,000.00
Pacific Gas & ,Electric Co. Bonds......................
Cal. Gas & Electric Co. Bonds.......................... 9,000.00
Los Angeles Railway Bonds..............................
5,000.00
Third U. S. Liberty Loan Bonds....................
1,000.00

Total Special Home Fund, July 31, 1920,

$ 22,676.63

121

Cash on Hand, August 1, 1919.................................................. $ 2,993.97
Receipts ...................................:.............. :...............$ 6,097.31
Disbursements ....'..................................................
5,348.26
749.05
Total Available Cash on Hand, July 31, 1920............$ 3,743.02
In submitting · my annual report as Grand Treasurer I beg to
direct your attention to the fact that seven years ago the Grand
Treasurer reported the invested funds of the Grand Lodge and
the Masonic Homes to be about sixty-one thousand dollars.

At the present time the securities held by those institutions
amount to about three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
The constantly increasing work in the office of the Grand
Treasurer, made necessary by the care of these bonds and the
further fact that it is the opinion of your Grand Treasure·r that
invested funds in such large amount should be placed in the
custody of a trust company, caused your Grand Treasurer to
recommend to th!! Grand Master and to the Trustees of the
Homes that such action be taken.
The Grand Master and Trustees concurred in the recommendation; the Anglo-California Trust Company was selected and all of
the securities, with the exception of a few bonds of small
denomination, are now in the custody of that institution.
WILLIAJ\1'. P. FILM:ER,

Grand Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

PROCEl•:I>JNGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES MASONIC HOMES
The following report was read, and adopted as presented:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California
herewith submits its report for the year ending August 31, 1920.
Immediately after the close of the last annual communication of
Grand Lodge the Board met, and. in accordance with our by-laws,
proceeded to elect officers for the ensuing year. All officers were reelected.
During the year the Board held monthly meetings, alternatin~ between San Francisco and Los Angeles, and weekly conferences of the
members residing in these two cities have been regularly held, to the
advantage of the business of the Homes.
At the November meeting the Grand Master notified the Board
that he had appointed Brother James B. Gist of Los Ange!cs as
Trustee for the term of four years, vice Oscar Lawler, term expired.
SALE OF OUTSIDE PROPERTIES

The Home has been the owner of many small pieces of property,
obtained for the most vart by deed from residents of the Home. These
properties arc of little value, many being small homes and not readily
salable, but through old ·association have great value in the minds of
the donors. During the year your Trustees have sold five pieces, at
full market va1uc, realizing the sum of $6Hl8.48. Of this sum, $2649.30
has been placed to the credit of the residents at the Home who owned
the properties, under the provisions of Rule 16. The sum of $3459.18,
being proceeds of sales of properties of deceased residents, was placed
in the Endowment Fund.
SALE m· SAN GABRIEL

We are pleased to report a cash sale of this property for the sum
of $30,814.56. This amount coven the cost of the property. adjustment
of the Covina purchase, plus all expenses of taxes, insurance and UlJ ·
keep and a profit of approximately $2500. The funds obtained from
this sale have been credited to the Building Fund.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

123

present time we are installing an automatic sprinkler fire system
throughout the main building and annex. This will reduce the fire
hazard and no longer list this building in the opinion of the under·
writers as a "fire trap."
CEMETERY AT DECOTO

The Home "cemetery plot" at Decoto has been replotted and
properly ornamented. Uniform marble markers have been set for
each grave, curbing and walks constructed and the plot inclosed by an
ornamental iron fence. Through the generosity of Brother Max Hornlein, the beautiful statue of "Grief," formerly resting in the grounds of
Stanford University, now occupies the center of the Home cemetery, as
a memorial to our departed.
COVINA IMPROVEMENTS

No improvements have been made at Covina, except the grading of
the playgrounds and new orchard. Some repairing, repainting and re·
placements are the only building expenditures made.
THE FARM AT DECOTO

Labor conditions made it again necessary to work the ground on
shares, and the shortage of rain materially reduced the crops. The
prune and apricot crops were not sufficient to warrant the sale of any
fruit, and it was all dried and retained for use at the Home. The
Home garden has produced bountifully, and all the various vegetables
are liberally served to the residents.
·
THE FARM AT COVINA

The young lemon grove this year produced about $477, and the
trees are in good condition. The orange trees show the best progress
of any in the neighborhood, arid are very promising. Not a single
tree was lost or damaged. New deciduous trees were set out this year,
most of which are doing nicely. An unusual season and some poor
stock will necessitate some resetting. Our garden is very productive,
but a change in grading to meet water conditions will give us' an increased area. Owing to unsatisfactory labor conditions we have suffered from a lack of proper care of the vegetable garden at t"imes. We
now have four good grade Holstein cows, furnishing us an abundance
of milk. Our poultry is in poor condition because of inexperienced
care. This will be remedied at once.

IMPROVEMENTS AT DECOTO

BUILDING PROGRAM AT DECOTO

During the year the various buildings at Decoto have been painted,
but due to the difficulty in getting labor, there is still considerab'e
carpenter work to be done. This is now being taken care of. At the

The time is approaching when it will be necessary to replace the
six wooden cottages, now housing some fifty men residents, with a
modern sanitary fi re-proof building. T his should be done as soon as

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

conditions of labor and material will warrant. The funds for this
purpose will be available in the near future, and we ask authority at
this time to develop a building program, providing for construction to
begin, when, in the judgment of the Trustees, conditions justify it.
More hospital accommodations are urgently needed to care for . residents who become ill. There is now available the sum of $21,000, the
gift of our late Brother John R. Daggett of California Lodge No. 1,
which may be applied to the construction of an annex to the hospital.

Our regulations provide that "An applicant suffering from any
disease or ailment necessitating hospital treatment will not be received."
As pointed out elsewhere, our hospital is overcrowded with those
who become ill after their admission to the Home. The Grand Lodge
should give this regulation most careful consideration. Are we fair to
the brother, a Mason in good standing for many years, who becomes
incapacitated through paralysis or other ailments, spends his savings in
attempted cure, and after years of Masonic fraternalism, when he
needs help and wishes to end his days among his brethren, is refused
admission to the Home?
It is true his Lodge cares for him in a public or semi-public institution, but what is the obligation of Grand Lodge in such a case?
Experience has taught us the difficulty of securing capable and necessary help even for our small hospital at Decoto. This difficulty would
be increased with a larger hospital. Would it not be the part of wisdom
for the Grand Lodge to endow a ward, or otherwise maintain, in an
existing institution in a large city, equipped for the proper care of an
unfortunate brother who is now ineligible fo the Home.

124

BUILDING AT COVINA

The present buildings at Covina are adequate for present demands,
unless Grand Lodge should make radical changes relative to eligibility
for the admission of children.
The Grand Chapter R. A. M. has provided $8500 now invested in
Liberty bonds, for the construction of a vocational building for boys, and
the Grand Council R. & S. M. has provided $4000 in cash and bonds for
the construction of a domestic science bungalow for girls. The
domestic science building should be of sufficient size to accommodate the
high school girls, in addition to providing the facilities for domestic
science education.
Experience in institutions similar to ours, where educational
features are emphasized, has proven it desirable and practical to
domicile high school girls in a separate building. Their libraries, their
studies and their hours are different, and it meets the features of club
cottages. Such a building would provide housing space that would
later become a necessity with increased numbers in the Home. These
two buildings are much needed, and should be constructed as soon as
building conditions warrant.
FINANC£

We are pleased to be able to report to Grand Lodge a better
financial condition than in any previous year. The transfer from the
war fund of $55,000 to the Home funds, and the sale of the San
Gabriel properties, have met all deficits, and we now have the nu.deus
of a working capital for emergency or improvement.
Due t~ the success of the plan of collecting $20 from each initiate
for the benefit of the Homes, it is apparent that the per capita tax from
the members may be materially reduced this year, and your Trustees
make such recommendation.
ADMISSION OF TH£ INCAPACITATED

The Trustees are frequently compelled to refuse admission to an
applicant who has all the necessary qualifications of eligibility, but who
is physically disqualified.

ADMISSION M

125

CHILDREN WHOSE FATH£RS AR£ LIVING

During the year the Trustees have received applications from
Lodges in behalf of children whose fathers were living, but whose
wage, or environment, was such that the Lodge felt the father could not
properly care for the child. Your Trustees have adopted no general
policy, in regard to these cases, but have handled each case upon its own
merits, remembering that the Home was not intended for the purpose
of enabling a father to shift the responsibility of the care of a child to
other shoulders, nor to enable him to obtain a convenient boarding
school for the child. Permission to send a child to the Home has only
been give~ when the case was, in the judgment of the Trustees, one in
which the Lodge should properly render assistance to the parent.
SUP£RINT£ND£NT FOR TH£ COVIN A HOM£

Since the completion of the new buildings and the increase in the
number of children at Covina, the need of a Resident Superintendent
has become more and more apparent to the Board. With the system
of health regulation and mental development recommended by the
Department of Pediatrics of Stanford University and adopted by this
Board, the presence of a competent Superintendent is necessary. We
must provide for the proper guidance of both children and employes
to meet the standard of personal and individual care the fraternity
desires to extend to each child whose preparation for future usefulness
is left to us. The economical purchase of supplies and the efficient
direction of the farm, garden, and dairy, are duties not to be expected
of a Matron. The local Trustees have generously and without com-

· 126

PROCEEDINGS OF '.l'HE

pensation given their time to this wo.rk, but the demands are growing
far beyond what should be expected of them to meet. The addu1 instruction in the proposed vocational and domestic science building the
direction of the gymnasium and playground work, and the develop:i.ient
of a practical interest in all outdoor activities for the children, require
continuous supervisioi;i.
Your Trustees recommend the appointment of a Superintendent at
the Covina Home an~ the construction of a suitable residence therefor.
LEGACIF;s AND CONTRIBUTIONS

Your Trustees gratefully acknowledge the following gifts and
legacies received since our last annual report :
Grand Chapter R. A. M. of California, $3500 in United States
bonds, in addition to the $5000 heretofore acknowledged, for the purpose of erecting and equipping a building for vocational training.
Grand Council R. & S. M. of California, $4000 in cash and United
States bonds for a domestic science bui!ding.
Grand Chapter 0 . E. S. of California, $1000 annually for two
scholarships, to be known respectively as the Elizabeth Mary Marshall
Scholarship and the Darwin Willson Pierce Scholarship.
Oakland Bodies, A. & A. S. R., $500 annually for a scholarship at
the University of California.
West Gate Lodge No. 335, $400 for the purchase of a high grade
cow.
Brother Joseph E. Hinds of Pasadena, $1000 for fitting up music
room for the children.
Brother Jesse M. Whited and his Masonic co-players, $187.90. This
was supplemental to a previous gift of $882.03, and ·is intended for the
creation of a playground at Covina. Brother Whited also directed a
play given under the auspices of Oakland Pyramid No. · 2, Sciots,
which produced a gift from that body of $502.38 for the playground.
Brother James Madison, ornamental gates and pillars to entrance
of Decoto Home cemetery.
Brother Ma.x Hornlein, marble monument, "Grief," at D~coto
cemetery.
Brother John D. McGilvray, installing monument, Decoto cemetery.
Brother Clarence E . DeCamp, material for fence, Decoto cemetery.
Clara M. Abrams, sister of the late Joseph D. Abrams, a diamond
studded jewel.
Lancaster Lodge No. 437, $750.
La Parfaite Union No. 17, $500.
Brother J . C. Fountain, $100.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

127

Estate of Brother Antonio E. Crabbe, Eden Lodge No. 113, $250.
Estate of Tracy D. Gronow, East Gate Lodge No. 290, $500.
Estate of Mark E . Lewis, $169.10.
Estate of Elizabeth Robinson, through Brother Barnet, Suisun,
$1000.
Estate of Mary M. Payne, Alameda, through Wallace M. Hamilton,
$250.
San Francisco Pyramid No. 1, Sciots, the annual payment of $300
for scholarship.
Lodges of the Sixty-second Masonic District, gymnasium equipment, $750.
·
Through the scholarship donated last year by the San ·Francisco
Sciots, one young woman from the Home has been given a practical
business training and is now employed and self-supporting.
An eighteen-year-old graduate of the Home, who was endeavoring
to earn sufficient to procure a mining · engineering degree, is now being
given the benefit of the scholarship provided by the San Francisco
Bodies of the Scottish Rite, and is now attending Cogswell Polytechnic
College. Several of the children are now about to be graduated from
the Home and are looking forward to the advantages of the scholar·
ships.
RECOM MENDATJONS

1st-That a building program be authorized, as herein suggested.
2d-That the Board be authorized to place in pub'ic or semi-r,ublk
institutions, under such r egulations as the Board of T rustees may
adopt, such applicants for admission who, except for their physical disabilities, would be admitted to the Home.
3d-That the Trustees be authorized to employ a Superintendent at
the Covina Home and provide necessary quarters for him.
4th-That the per capita tax for the support of the H omes IJC'
reduced from one dollar to thirty-five cents.
C. M. WOLLENBERG,
E. B. SPENCER,
J. B. GrsT,
CHAS. G. JOHNSON,
GEORGE

F. RODDEN,

S. E. BURKE,
WM . A. SHERMAN,
Trustees.

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SECRETARY' S REPORT
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:
I submit herewith the book accounts of the Homes, as shown by
Brother John R. Ruckstell, certified public accountant.
JoHN Wu1cHER,

,Secretary.
SUMMARJZED STATEMENT OF I NCOME AND EXPEN SE
FOR THE YEAR ENDJNG J ULY 31,

R evenue
Maintenance Fund ..................................
Farm produce sales-Decoto ................
Farm produce sales-Covina................
Decoto farm rent.. ..................................
Decoto receipts for maintenance ........
Covina receipts for maintenance........
Decoto receipts, miscellaneous ..............
Covina receipts, miscellaneous _____________ _
Salvage --··--···----····--················--·-·-----.........
Interest ......................................................
San Gabriel Property............................
Total R evenue ....................................
Disbursements
Maintenance: Decoto .......................,..$33,841.52
Covina ............................ 17,734.30
Farm : Decoto · --·------------------------------------- 10,438.40
Covina -·-------------------------------------- 5, 182.69
L aundry : Decoto .................................... 2,235.80
Covina ....................................
758.16
Payroll : Decoto ...........----·-·---·v··-·-···--··" 7,800.99
Covina ...................................... 3,468.01
General Expense: Decoto .................... 14,252.51
Covina .................... 4,215.87
Trustees traveling expense....................
Accounting and general office work ...
Legal expense ----··---··------------------------------I nterest -----------------------------'·----------------------P ensions ·-·--·---------········--·----·---·--·---·---------T axes ..........................................................
Moving pictures......................................
Insurance ..................................................
Building repairs ......................................

1920
$156,697.17
13,167.24
2,834.01
975.16
2,156.41
2,174.41
100.00
8.18
89.59
609.15
1,918.17
$180,729.49

EX PENDITURES BY DETAIL AUGUST

129

1, 1919 TO JULY 31, 1920

Maintenance
Decato
Covina
T otal
Groceries .......................................................:$ 5,175.75 $ 1,896.91 $ 7,072.66
Meats ........:..................................................... 3,997.14
1,090.56
5,087.70
Fish ..................................................................
440.86
142.57
583.43
Provisions (cured and smoked meat s) ..
233.87
294.17
528.04
Fruits and vegetables.................................. 2,339.93
811.05
3,150.98
Butter, milk and eggs.................................. 8,854.64
2,907.88 11,762.52
Bakers' supplies ............................................ 1,456.27
1,124.82
2,581.09
Medical supplies and drugs ........................
534.51
152.01
686.52
Hospital expense.;.....................................·...
705.65
515.89
1,221.54
Dental expense ..............................................
43.49
14.94
58.43
998.@
Clothing ..........................................................
1,481.84
2,479.93
Shoes ..............................................................
253.73 . 1,088.02
1,341.75
Bedding ..........................................................
601.47
490.80
1,092.27
School supplies..............................................
330.51
330.51
Kitchen-Repairs and maintenance........
578.73
15.05593.78
Kitchen expense ............................................
314.78
112.05
426.83
Sundries ........................................................ 1,340.78
1,740.63
3,081.41
P ay r oll.......................................................... 5,971.83
3,524.60,
9,496.43
Total maintenance................................$33,841.52 $17,734.30 $51,575.82
Farm
Tools and equipment ..................................$
59.12 $
44.95 $ 104.07
211.97
79.78
291.75
Seeds -----------·--------···--·-··············-·------------·-··--·1,529.01
7,932.98
Feed. ---·-------·---·-·----------------·-··---··----···--··········· 6,403.97
General expense............................................ 2,243.67
1,626.45·
3,870.12
Labo r ..............................................................· 1,519.67
1,902.50
3,42Z.1 7

51 ,575.82
15,621.09
2,993.96
11,269.00

T otal farm ..............................................$10,438.40 $ 5,182.69 $15,621.09
Laundry
Ex pense ...........
$ 1,275.80 $ 208.1 5 $ 1,483.95
Labor· ..............................................................
960.00
550.01
1,510.01

18,468.38
968.17
812.50
45.82
382.75
300.00
1,107.49
635.88
139.75
1,654.75

¥ . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . .. . . . .. . .. . .

Total laundry........................................$ 2,235.80 $ 758.16 $ 2,993.96
· Pay Roll
Wages .............................................................$ 4,542.66 $ 1,883.01 $ 6,425.67
Sala ries .......................................................... 3,258.33
1,585.00
4,fs43.33

Total Disbursements ----------------------

$105,975.36

Balance of Revenue over E x pense

$ 74,754.13

Total pay roll........................................$ 7,800.99 $ 3,468.01 $11,269.00
Ge11eral Expense
Decato
Covina
Total
Light·, heat, power and water ..................$ 7,590.21 $ 1,311.71 $ 8,901.92
P lant repairs and maintenance.................. 2,501.77
1,371.45
3,873.22
F reight and ex press .............................. ,..... 1,669.27
241.74
1,91 1.01

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

130

2.50
Traveling expense........................................
370.67
Printing and office supplies ......................
87.25
Insurance ......................................................
750.83
Taxes ..............................................................
301.42
Telephone and telegraph ............................
5undries .;.....................................:................ 1,816.67

65.65
551.91
i39.75
955.51
509.76
2,654.91

63.15
181.24
52.50
204.68
2~.34

838.24

----

Total general expense~.........................$15,090.59 $ 4,473.05 $19,563.64

Commo11 Expeiise
Trustees expense......................................,...
Pensions -········································-······-·······
Interest ..........................................................
Taxes ............ ,.................................................
Accounting ·....................................................
Total common expense........................

%8.17
~.00

.344.75
151.98
812.50
$ 2,577.40

Grand total expenditures ..........................$69,407.30 $31,616.21 $103,600.91

Revc1111e
$ 4,330.82
Maintenance .................................................$ 2•156·41 $ 2,174.41
16,001.25
2,834.01
Farm produce sales...................................... 13•16724
975.16
975.16
Farm rent-Decoto .................................... ..
609.15
6.36
602.79
Interest ..........................................................
89.59
48.66
40.93
Salvage and misce'.laneous........................
108.16
8.18
100.00
General expense............................................

- --- - -·-

Total revenue........................................$17,042.53 $ 5,071.62 $22,: 14.15

Summary of Expeiidit1ires
$51,575.82
Maintenance .................................................$33,841.52 $17,734.30
15,621.09
5,182.69
10438.40
2,993.96
758.16
2'.235.80
3,468.01 1.1,269.00
Pay roll-General........................................ 7,800.99
4,473.95 19,S63.64
General exp.ense............................................ 15,090.59
2,577.40
Common expense.......................................... ................

. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :::: : : ::: : : : : :

r::~dr;

- --·-

---

Grand total expenditure ....................$69,407.30 $31,616.21 $103,600.91
Homes' revenue............................................$17,042.53 $ 5,071.62 $22,114.~~
Net expense...................................................$52,364.77 $26,544.59 $81,486.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
131
CASH RllClllPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM AUGUST 1, 1919
TO JULY 31, 1920-ALL SOURCES
Cash on hand August l ; 1919..................:.;.................
$ 44,414.07
Receipts
Grand Lodge, account building..................................$ 32,583.50
Grand Lodge, account maintenance.......................... 65,167.00
Grand Lodge, account War· Fund, account maintenance ...................................................................... . 30,(XX).00
Grand Lodge, bonds so'.d ...........:..........." .....,............'.... 13,850.00
Grand Lodge, to make u·p deficit. ..........;...;................ 11,755.44
Sundries, account maintenance ..................,. ............... 2,329.92
Subordinate Lodges, account maintenance:
Decoto ...................................................................... 2,508.69
Covina ................................;...........;..:...................... 2,293.15
Farm produce sales, Decoto....................................... . 3,603.79
460.38
F arm produce sales, Covina......:.......................,........:
975.16
Farm rent, Decoto...........................................................
Permanent Endowment Fund...................................... 93,284.75
Special Rule No. 16.-..:......................;..;.......:............... 11,099.38
Special Home Fund, interest....................................., 1,190.26
Residents' deposit\,!! .......................................................... 3,998.34
Schola rship Fund .......................................................... 3,118.13
Maintenance Fund, Endowment interest................ 29,097.14
754.04
Funeral expense refunds ......... :..................................
Headstone Fund .......................................................... ..
720.00
Entertainment Fund..................................................... . 6,142.31
Interest ............................................................................
609.15
Salvage ..........:.............................................................:...
82.23
San Gabriel property.................................................. .. 31,014.56
T rustees refund ..............................................................
79.15
Addition to petty cash ...................;..............................
130.90
Total receipts .................,................................:...... .
$346,947.37

Total available........................................................
$391,361.44
Disb11rscments
Maintenance ...................................................................$113,051 .05
Building Fund.................................................................. 33,374.72
Permanent Endowment Fund .................................... 122,167.39
Special Ru'.e No. 16....................................................... 2,729.48
Entertainment Fund...................................................... 5,393.26
Funeral expense..............................................................
1,025.47
Residents' withdrawals.................................................. 3,238.44
Interest ............................................................................
140.00
Bank of Italy, loan repaid............................................ 35,000.00
H eadstone Fund.............................................................. 3,963.31
Scholarship Funt!..........................................................
441 .53
Total disbursements ..............................................
$320,524.65
· Balance .............................................................:......

$ 70,S.36.79

i\ \JH\ \II!ffl~

\
CH

~
,_.

""""

~

::i:

l;l

.

N

....

---t:~ '-"~~~~-~~

<.n<D'-'Qo..-'-lO\'-''-'"-"'°'-"
oowl=O\N'-''-"°'°'00..-00

8 8~ ~i::l ~~i::l ~8i2xl~5

Y>

~::..>
°'~

SUMMARY CASH STATEMENTS BY FUNDS

Funds

Balances
Aug. 1, 1919

Receipts

Total
Available

Balances
Disbursed Aug. 1, 1920

General Fund-Maintenance......................•...................................$11,755.44* $162,911.20 $151,155.76 $113,191.05 $37,964.71
General Fund-Building.: ...............................................:................ 29,386.35* 63,598.06
34,211.71
33,374.72
836.99
General Fund-Building Note ................................:...............,:.... 45,8()().00* 45,800.00 ··········-------- -----------------Permanent Endowment Fund ........................................................ 35,621.42
93,284.75
128,906.17 122,167.39
6,738.78
Permanent Endowment Fund Note ............................................ 45,800.00
45,800.00
45,800.00
Special Rule No. 16............................................................................ 5,765.25
16,864.63
11,099.38
2,729.48 14,135.15
3,998.34
6,544.66
3,238.44
3,306.22
Residents' personal deposits ........................·--····-························ 2,546.32
Entertainment Fund.......................................................................... 2,993.97
9,136.28
6,142.31
5,393.26
3,743.02
2,676.63 .... ______________
1,190.26
Special Home Fund ....:..................................................................... 1,486.37
2,676.63
Scholarship Fund.......................,......................................................................
3,118.13
3,118.13
441.53
2,676.60
720.00
2,782.00
3,963.31
1,181.31 *
Headstone Fund............·-··············································-···················· 2,062.00
Funeral Fund......................................................................................
88.57*
754.04
665.47
360.00*'
1,025.47
Totals ................................................................ ~~---······-·········-:$ 9,244.97 $392,616.47 $401,861.44 $331,324.65 $70,536.79
Bank of Italy-Loan..........- ............................................................ 35,00Cl.OO
35,00Cl.OO
35,000.00 -····---------·Banks, etc..............................·--················································-········· 44,244.97 ---·-········--·---·············· -----------------Petty cash-Decoto...................................._.................................. :....
119.10
130.90
250.00 ---------------··250.00
50.00 -------·--···-··-·
50.00
Petty cash-Covina .......... --·············--·~---·····-········-·········-···········50.00 -----------····-··
OOHOOOO••••••H••

z~

ti
t"
0
ti
0
t.".l
0
".!

~.....

".!
0
:ll

z

>

--

Total ..............................................................................................$44,414.07 $392,747.37 ~37,161.44 $366,193.75 $70,836.79
*Deficit.
A reference to the Report of the Grand Secretary will show the receipts since August 1, 1920, have aggregated more
than $72,000 from the $20 tax on petitioners; $75,00CI for main tainance, and $37,500 for building.

,_.
<»
<>.>

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPECJAL HOME l1 UNIJ, JULY 31, 1920
Cash on hand August 1, 1919........................ :.....................................$ 1,486.37
Receipts.
Bank interest...............:............................................................$· 72.76
Bond interest ...........................................- ......:.......................... 1,117.50
- - - 1,190.26
Cash in Humboldt Savings Bank.........................................:......_........ 2,676.63
Composition Special Home F11nd. .
Cash .......:................................................................ :........:...........$2,676.63
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. bonds, par value.................... 5,000.00
California Gas & Electric Co. bonds, par value.............. 9,<XX>.00
Los Angeles Railway bonds, par value .............................. 5,000.00
Third U. S. Liberty Loan bonds, par value...................... 1,000.00

Total Special Home Fund, July 31, 1920..................................$22,676.63
ENTERTAINMENT FUND, JULY 31, 1920
Cash on hand August 1, 1919..............................................................$ 2,993.97
Receipts ....................................................................................$6,097.31
·
Disbursements ·······················'················································ 5,348.26
749.05
Total available cash on hand July 31, 1920............................ $3,743.02
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND,. JULY 31, 1920
.
Cash · on hand August 1, 1919................................................~ ...........$ 35,621.42
Receipts.
Donations ......:......................................................................$28,549.93
Building Fund, note paid~·····························-·················· 45,800.00
City of Santa Barbara bond redeemed.......................... 1,000.00
Bequests ................................................................................ 6,666.25
Sundry Receipts.................................................................. 1,372.45
Total receipts .....................:............................................................$ 83,388.63
Total available............................................ ,...................................$119,010.05
Disbursements.
$50,000 Second Liberty Loan bonds......:.......................$47,896.89
45,000 Third Liberty Loan bonds.................................. 42,200.00
10,000 Fourth Liberty Loan bonds................................ 8,987.50
Interest received in the years 1917, 1918 and 1919
paid to Maintenance Fund............................................ 13,1116.88
Total disbursements .................................................................... $112,271 27
Balance ..................•....:.............................'.... ~'--·-···············--····$ 6,738.78

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

135

Composition of Endowme nt Fund.

Cash in Humboldt Savings Bank................$4,657.40
Cash to be deposited........................................ 2,081.38
6,738.78
40% City of Santa Barbara improvement bonds$ 4,000.00
40% City of Santa Barbara water bonds ................ 11,287.50
6 % City of Uplands bonds ........................................ 3,125.00
5 % Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. bonds.............................. 16,000.00
40% San Francisco Hetch Hetchy bonds................ 12,000.00
5 % City of Richmond bonds...................................... 5,000.00
5 % City and County of San Francisco bonds ..... . 2,000.00
5 % City of Ashland bonds ....................................... . 9,000.00
5 % Cal. Gas & Electric Co. bonds............................ 10,000.00
30% U. S. First Liberty Loan bonds ..$ 1,050.00
4y,( % U. S. First Converted Li be rt y
Loan bonds.......................................... 11,300.00
4 % U. S. Second Liberty Loan bonds 1,000.00
4y.(% U. S. Second Converted Liberty
Loan bonds.......................................... 67,850.00
4~% U. S. Third Liberty Loan bonds.. 48,450.00
4y.(% U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan bonds 19,850.00
4~ % lT. S. Fifth Liberty Loan bonds.... 58,950.00
$208,450.00
Less discount on bonds purchased............ 7,915.61
- - - 200,534.39
Total Permanent Endowment Fund, July 31, 1920............$279,(&.67
1, 1920
Assets.
Cash ..................................................................................$ 70,836.79
Bonds:
Permanent Endowment Fund ........$280,862.50
Special Home Fund.......................... 20,000.00
300.00
Special Rule No. 16..........................
Maintenance Fund,............................ 10,000.00
- - - 311,162.50
Real Estate:
Decoto .................................................$ 45,469.90
Covina .................................................. 21,800.00
Farm Investment, Decoto................ 8,000.00
Investment, sundry............................ 1,279.22
76,549.12
Buildings:
Decoto Home......................................$276,475.12
BALANCE SHEET AUGUST

136

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Capital Account.
Capital Account, Aug. 1, 1919.,...,..............................$534,251.24
Adjustments : Original inventory of properties,
etc. ........................................................................ 30,690.87

Covina Home...................................... 133,511.33
- - - 409,986.45
Power Plant and Laundry............:..................... ~····· 38,788.00
Improvements :
Decoto .................................................$ 31,664.26
Covina ..................:.....•.....................,.. 4,260.36
35,924.62
Building Equipment:
Decoto .................................................$ 26,119.85
Covina ................................................. 5,983.04
Farm Equipment:
Deco to .................................................$ 5,006.00
Covina ····•································.·············
135.00
Furniture and Fixtures:
Decoto .......................................,-.......$ 15,851.46
Covina .............................•:................. 6,154.53
Stores and Supplies :
Decoto ..................................................$ 1,065.84
Covina ........................_........................... 1,989.80

137

$503,560.37
Balance of revenue over expenses.................... 74,754.13
Balance (as above) ............:.............................................................$ 578,314.50

32,102.89
GENERAL CONDITIONS AT DECOTO HOME
5,141.00

22,005.99

3,055.64

Total assets .................................................................................. $1,005,553.00
Liabilities.
Claims Payable...............................................................$ 8,286.94
Permanent Endowment Fund .................................... 279,685.67
Special Home Fund...................................................... 22,676.63
Building Fund....................................·-························· 85,884.11
Residents' Personal Deposit-s..................................... 3,306.02
Special Rule No. 16...................................................... 14,126.40
Special Rule No. 16 Bonds........................................
300.00
Entertainment Fund...................................................... 3,743.02
Scholarship Fund........................................................... 2,676.60
Bond Value Adjustment.............................................. 6,553.11

Total liabilities......................:......................................................

427,238.50

-----

Balance (net worth) .............................:...........................................$ 578,314.50

Since our last annual report, 27 residents have been admitted, 17
being men and 10 women. Two have voluntarily departed, and 18 have
passed to their last reward. There are now at the Home 84 men and
54 women.
The health of the residents has been good, with the exception of
those who by reason of age have become infirm . and helpless. The
Coleman hospital is now housing 16 members of the Home, and every
attention possible is being provided for them.
Many of the brethren have <;ontributed to the welfare of the Home
by their labors in the carpenter, tailor, shoe and barber shops, picking
fruit and berries, watering the lawns and flower gardens, in the garage,
library, kitchen, pantry and dining room, and doing light chores.
The women residents attend to all the maki~g, ·mending and marking of the household linen, and have taken charge not only of their
own rooms, but as well the halls, stairways, wash rooms and other
parts of the main building. They also attend to the changing of all
table linen, and assist at times in work connected with the dining room
and the hospital.
Every day, immediately following lunch, the blind residents repair
to the library, where a good reader imparts the current news of the day.
The social features are not neglected, and all the residents are
afforded all the diversion necessary.
From time to time arrangements are made so that the brethren and
lad ies of the Home have opportunity to visit Lodges and Chapters of
the Eastern Star, and automobile trips are made often to Oakland and
other nearby cities.
Many entertainments have been given for the pleasure and benefit
of the fami!y by Lodges, members of Lodges and their ladies. Following is a summary of such entertainments;

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAr.D LODG~~ OF CALIFORNIA

September 13, concert by Islam band; luncheon in the grove; candy
and cigars.
September 20, third degree by Apollo Lodge No. 396; Scottish ~ongs
and dances, and humorous recitations.
September 27, concert by Aahmes Shrine band.
October 4, literary and musical entertainment by Fraternity Chapter
No. 288, Eastern Star.
October 18, a smoker was given by Sequoia Lodge No. 349; second
degree.
November 15, Apollo Lodge and ladies gave a concert; Scotch
dances and bagpipes; full Highland dress.
November 30.• Thanksgiving exercises were held in the Assembly
hall.
December 13, the students of Mi.ls College entertained with Christ;11as carols and recitations; candy.
December 21, an entertainment was given by students from Tamalpais Union high school, the ladies appearing in the fashions of "auld
Jang syne."
December 25, Christmas services, attended by residents and employes; visit from Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus and distribution of presents to all.
December 31, watch night party for residents and employes.
February 12. Lincoln's birthday appropriate'.y celebrated.
Febrnary 22, celebration of Washington's birthday.
February 28. Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403 and ladies presented vocal
and instrumental music, with dancing.
April 11, Easter services in Assembly hall.
.
April 17, the Masters and Wardens Association of San Francisco
appeared with La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17; first degree was conferred in French.
April 30 marked the opening of the Chautauqua at Centerville.
Thirty members of the Home family attended daily until its .c'.ose . on
May 5. .
May 16 was marked by a vocal and Instrumental concert given by
::vfiramonte Chapter No. 141, 0 . E. S.
·
May 21 will long be remembered because of a band concert given
·
hy members of Jewel Lodge No. 374.
May 22, Balder Lodge No. 393 conferred the third degree.
May 29, Durant Lodge No. 268 and ladies 'gladdened the hearts of
the residents; third degree; moving pictures; candy, ice cream and
ciga rs.
May 30, Memorial Day, was appropriately observed by exercises in
the Assembly ha!', and the dt'(:oration of graves .at the cemetery.
June 12, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 and ladies gave a luncheon in
Palm grove, followed by a negro minstrel show.

July 12, the Municipal band of Oakland favored the Home with
a concert.

138

139

July 5, patriotic exercises in the Assembly hall.
July 30 will be best remembered because of the vis.i t of the Grand
Matron and officers of the Eastern Star, accompanied liy the East Bay
Matrons' Association. Luncheon was had in Palm grove,· and a musical
entertainment given in the Temple.

a

August 28, Oakland Lodge No. 188 and ladies gave luncheon in
the grove. Vocal and instrumental music in the Temple, at which ice
·
cream, candy and cigars were served.
September 3, Orient Chapter No. 177, 0. E. S., provided trans:;>ortation to Masonic hall at Centerville, where an entertainment was given.
September 11, Live Oak Lodge No. 61 and ladies provided a varied
entertainment in the Temple and luncheon in the grove with candy
and cigars.
.
'
The Grand Master and other officers of Grand Lodge have visited
the Home on numerous occasions, as have a!so many other brethren
and friends.
·
DONATIONS TO Dl\COTO HOM!\

Donor.

Article

Washington Lodge No. 20.................... 1 croquet set ( mallets, wickets and
balls).
Apollo Lodge No. 396............................ I Sonora cabinet phonograph.
25 records.
San Francisco Lodges, F. and A. M ... 161 jars and glasses of jam, jelly anrl
fruit.
Islam Shrine Band.................................. 55 boxes candy and JOO cigars.
Fraternity Chapter No. 288, 0. E. S ... Ice cream and cake.
l\.fill Valley Chapter No. 219, 0 . E. S.24 jars of jelly and fruit.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349.......................... 40 pounds of candy and 100 cigars.
Santa Clara Chapter No. 195, 0 . E. S.8S jars of jelly and fruit.
Porterville Lodge No. 303.................... 6 boxes of oranges.
Charles Albert Adams ............................ ! large rug.
Parnassus Chapter No. 269, 0. £ .. S ... 15 nightgowns.
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403................ 100 cigars and 30 pounds of candy.
B. PaJquale Co... ~ ..................................... 100 Masonic aprons;
E ast Bay Matrons' Association............ 3 comforters, 150 boxes of candy.
3 large Christmas cakes.
California Nursery Company.............. ! large Christmas tree.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336........................ 55 boxes chocolates and 100 cigars.
l.r.o Bruck ................................................ 1 package magazines.
1 ivory billiard ball.
S. J. Goo<lwin........_. ................................... 3 packages magazines and periodicals.

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

140

Donor.

Article

Mrs. M. L. Bergman ..............................1 box of clothing.
1 trunk of clothing.
Union League Club....................,...........24 packages o~ playing cards.
John Dixon................................................ 1 package of men's clothing.
Wi~liam H . Ha:ub.................................... 75 pounds of candy.
· Lizzie J. Wheelock.................................. l package of clothing.
.
O. F. O'.sen.............................. :................. 1 year's subscription The Trestle Board.
Masonic Club of San Francisco............ 48 packs of playing cards.
Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland.. 1 trunk of clothing.
Charles De Maurice.................................2 packages · of clothing, etc.
John S. Dennis...................... ............ ·.. . 1 cabinet phonograph.
20 records.
Durant Lodge No. 268............................60 boxes of candy, cigars and ice cream.
Balder Lodge No. 393................•...........55 boxes of candy, cigars and ice cream.
George A. Moore Company................ 1 box tobacco.
La Parfaite Union No. 17.................... 150 cigars.
Miramonte Chapter No. 141, 0. E. S.50 boxes of candy.
100 cigars.
·
William Corcoran.............................. .....2 large boxes of candy.
F. A. Baldwin............................................ 1 package of cloth samples.
Auna B. Anderson.-................................ 1 box of men's clothing.
A. E. Hofman........................................... 1 package of magazines.
Ellen S. Sly.............................................-5 Scientific Books.
James Madison.......................................... 1 package of periodicals.
Charles F. Gompertz................................ 1 package oi magazines.
Thomas W. Swaffield.............................. l package of magazines and periodic:als.
Oroville Lodge No. 100..........................4 gallons ripe olives.
First Church of Christ, Scientist, of9 volumes, works of Mrs. Ma ry Baker
Stockton ........................................ ....... Eddy.
Mrs. Helen A. Fitch................................ 1 large framed oil painting.
M. B. Sneden............................................ 1 large package magazines and period. icals.
Mrs. John Whicher.................................. l package magazines.
Scotty Foreman.......................................:1 package pipes, tobacco.
G. C. Hidecker.......................................... 1 pack~e of tobacco and cigarettes.
F . E. Skinner ............................................ 1 package of clothing.
Eugene S. E lkus...- ................................... 1 package of magazines.
Oakland Lodge No. 188........................ 60 boxes of candy.
100 cigars and ice cream.
W. B. Kirk ................................................ 2 vo'.umes Fifty Years of Masonry in
California.
F. E. Skinner............................................ 2 large feather pillows.
Live · Oak Lodge No. 61.......................... 150 cigars.
Burlingame Chapter No. 275, 0. E. S. l large upholstered arm t:hair.

141

l!NTl!RTAINM:ENT CASH DONATIONS

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Abell ............................ 146........ 5.00
Alameda ....................:.167........ 10.00
Alcatraz ...................... 244........ 25.00
Alisa! ...........................321........ 5.00
Alpha ........,................. .431........ 15.00
Alturas ........................248........ 5.00
Amador ...................... 65........ 10.00
Amity .. :.......................370........ 25.00
Antioch .......................175 ........ 20.00
Apollo ..........................396........ 20.00
Arcata ........................ .106........ 20.00
Argonaut .................... 46........ 10.00
Arlington ...............:....414........ 35.00
Artesia ........................377........ 10.00
Arroyo ........................274........ 10.00
Ashlar .........................306........ 5.00
Bakersfield .................224........ 25.00
Balder ..........................393........ 20.00
Bay View ....................401........ 20.00
Bear Mountain........... 76........ 5.00
Benicia ........................ 5........ 10.00
Berkeley ......................363........ 10.00
Blackmer :...................442........ 5.00
Brooklyn .....................225 ........ 15.00
Buckeye ......................195........ 10.00
Buena Park.................357........ 5.00
Burlingame .........:......400........ 10.00
Calaveras .................... 78........ 10.00
Calexico ......................412........ 25.00
California .................... 1........ 35.25
Carquinez ....................337........ 10.00
Center ..........................465........ 5.00
Charity ........................362........ 10.00
Charter Oak. ...............410........ 15.00
Chi~o .......................... .111 ........ 10.00
Clay ............................ .101........ 20.00
Clinton ........................119.....•.. 25.00
Clovis ...........................417........ 10.00
Coalinga ......................387 ........ 10.DO
Colusa .........................240........ 10.DO
Concord .............,......:.117........ 20.00
Confidence ..................203........ 5.DO

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Corona ........................324........ SO.DO
Coronado ....................441........ 10.DO
Corinthian .................. 9........ 10.0C
Crescent ...................... 45........ 5.00
Crockett ......................139........ SO.DO
Covina .........................334........ 5.00
Curtis .......................... 140........ 5.DO
Dinuba ........................385........ 10.00
Doric ...........................216........ 50.00
Dunsmuir ...................297........ 10.00
Durant ........................268........ 10.00
East Gate ....................290........ 50.00
Eden ............:...............113........ 5.00
E l Centro .....................384........ 10.00
E lysian ........................418 ........ 17.00
Emanuel ......................318........ 10.00
E nterprise .................. 70........ 5.00
E ucalyptus .................. 243........ 25.00
Eureka ......................... 16........ 2.50
E xcelsior ....................166........ 25.00
E xeter ..........................424........ 25.00
Evergreen .................. 259........ 10.00
Fairmount ..................435........ 10.00
F idelity ........................120........ 25.0G
F illmore ......................379........ 25.00
F rancis Drake ............376........ 10.00
F ranklin ..................... .143........ 25.00
F riendship .................. 210........ JO.DO
F ruitvale .....................336........ JO.DO
Galt ..............................267........ 10.QO
Glendora .....................404........ 10.00
Golden Gate................ 30........ 25.00
Gold Hill...................... 32........ 10.00
Golden W est...............455 ........ 20.00
H ammonton ...............433........ 20.DO
Hanford ......................279........ 10.00
Hawaiian .................... 21........ 50.00
Henry Clay.................. 95........ 5.00
Henry S. Orme ..........458........ 20.00
Hermann -~~ .................127........ 15.00
Hesperian ....................264........ 5.DO
Highland Park..........382........ 10.00

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
. No. ·
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Hills Ferry..................236........ 13.00 Monterey ..............,.....217........ 5.00
Hiram .......................... 43........ 5.00 Morgan Hill................463........ 10.00
Hollenbeck .................319........ 20.00 Morning Star.. ............ 68........ 20.00
Hollywood .................355 ........ 10.00 Mount Diablo.............448........ 15.00
Honolulu ....................400........ 50.00 Mosaic ....................... .218........ 10.00
Howard ....................... 96........ 10.00 Mount Moriah ........... 44........ 25.00
Humboldt .................. 79...:.... 15.00 Mountain View .......... 194........ 10.00
Illinoistown ................ 51........ 10.00 Mount J ackson...........295........ 5.00
Imperial ......................390........ 25.00 Natoma ....................... 64........ 5.00
Inyo ..............................221........ 10.00 Naval ........................... 87........ 10.00
Ione ..............'................ 80........ 5.00 Needles ........................326........ 10.00
Jewel ............................374..:..... 5.00 Nevada ....................... 13........ 5.00
Keith .......:................... 187........ 10.00 Nicolaus ..................... 129........ 10.00
Kennett ........................456........ 10.00 Norwalk .........,............315........ 5.00
Kilauea ........................330........ 39.85 Oak Grove .................215........ 10.00
King David's ..............209........ 10.00 Oakl~nd ..........:............188........ 10.00
King Solomon's ..........200........ 25.00 Occidental ................... 22........ 10.00
La Fayette................... 126.:...... 5.00 Ontario ........................301..:..... 10.00
Las Palmas..................366........ 10.00 Oriental ...................... 144........ 25.00
. Lassen .........................149........ 10.00 Orland .........................265........ 5.00
. Le Progres De
Ocean Park ................369........ 10.00
L'Oceanie ................371........ 25.00 Oxnard ........................341......:. 50.00
Libertas .......................466........ 25.00 .Pacific ..........................136........ 20.00
Liberty ........................299........ 10.00 Pacific Grove ............331........ 5.00
Lincoln ............'...........470........ 10.00 , Pajaro ......................... 110........ 10.00
Live Oak...................... 61........ 50.00 ·Palo · Alto....................346........ 10.00
Lodi . .............................256.....:.. 10.00 Palos Verdes ..............389........ 50.00
Lompoc .......................262.....:.. 10.00 Park · .............................449........ 15.00
Long Beach ................327........ 50.00 Parnassus ..................388........ 10.00
Los Angeles................ 42........ 30.00 Paso Robles ....;...........286........ 10.00
Los Gatos ....................292........ 10.00 Paul Revere ................462........ 25.00
Madison ..................... 23........ 5.00 Phoenix ...................... 178........ 15.00
Magnolia ..................... 242........ 5.00 Pinole ..........................353........ 20.00
Maricopa .......... ,.........434........ 15.00 Pittsburg .................. ..429......,.. 10.00
Marin ...........................191......., 15.00 Plumas ........................ 60...... ~. 5.00
Martinez ..................... 41........ 10.00 Presidio ......................354........ 25.00
McKinley ....................367.:...... 10.00 Reading .......................254........ 10.00
Midway ......................426........ 25.00 Redwood City .............168........ 40.00
Mill Valley..................356........ 50.00 Reedl~y .......................304........ 5.00
Mission .......................169........ 25.00 Richmond ...................375........ 10.00
Mizpah ........................378........ 10.00 Rio Vista .....................~........ 10.00
Molino .........................150........ 10.00 Rising Light................397........ 20.00
Moneta ........................405........ 25.00 Rockridge ...................468........ 25.00
Monrovia ....................300........ 10.00 Roseville .....................222........ 25.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Lodge
No.
A.int.
Russian River ............ 181........ 5.00
Sacramento ............... .:o........ 10.00
Salinas ........................204..'...... 10.00
San Benito..................211........ 5.00
San Bernardino.........348........ 10.00
San Buenaventura .....214........ 25.00
San Diego.................... 35........ 20.00
San Francisco .............300.... ~ ... 10.00
Sanger ........................316........ 25.00
San J acinto .................338........ 5.00
San Jose ...................... 10........ 10.00
San Mateo ...................226........ 10.00
San Miguel..................285........ 10.00
San Pasqual................452........ 30.00
San Pedro ....................332........ 10.00
San Simeon.................196......,. 5.00
Santa Ana ....................241........ 15.00
Santa Cruz.................. 38........ 10.00
Santa Monica..............307........ 5.00
Santa Paula................291........ 75.00
Sequoia .......................349........ 10.00
Silver Gate..................296........ 20.00
Silverville ...................201........ 10.00
Sisson ..........................310........ 10.00
Selma ..........................277........ 75.00
Snow Mountain........ .271........ 5.00
Speranza Italiana..... .219........ 10.00
Southern California.. 278........ 25.00
So. San Francisco.... 212........ 10.00
South Gate ..................320........ 10.00

143

Lodge
No. • Amt
South Pasadena ........367........ 20.00
St. John's..................... j7........ 10.00
Starr King...................344........ 10.00
Suisun ......................... 55........ 7.50
Sunset .........................352........ 25.00
Tehachapi ...................313........ 20.00
Tehama ....................... 3........ 10.00.
Temescal .....................314........ 5.00
Texas .......................... 46........ 5.00
Tuolumne .................. 8........ 5.00
Union .......................... 58........ 25.00
Unity .;~........................368........ 10.00
Upland ........................419 ........ 25.00
Vacaville .................... 134........ 20.00
Veteran .......................373 ........ 30.00
Visalia ........................ .12.8........ 20.00
W ashington ............... 20........ 20.00
Welcome .....................255........ 10.00
West . Gate...................335........ 10.00
Western Star.............. 2........ 10.00
Wilmington ...............198........ 25.00
Winnedumah ............287........ 30.00
Wilshire ...:................. 445........ 72.00
W oodbridge ..............138........ 5.00
Woodland ..................156........ 5.00
Yosemite .................... 99........ 10.00
Yolo ............................. 81........ 2.50.
San Francisco Past
Masters Assn. ........ .. ...... 71.67

Chapter, R . A . M.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Alameda ...................... 70........ 5.00
Alturas ........................ 107........ 5.00
Antioch ........................ 65........ 10.00
Benicia ........................ 7........ 10.00
Berkeley ...................... 92........ 10.00
California .................... 5........ 25.00
Char!es Frederick
Crocker ..................106........ 5.00
Chico ............................ 42........ 10.00
Coalinga ......................114........ 2.50

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Cyrus .......................... 15........ 10.00
Dixon .......................... 48........ 10.00
Doric ............................ 66........ 5.00
East Gate ....................103........ 5.00
El Centro ..................100........ 50.00
Ferndale ...................... 78........ 10.00
Fresno .......................... 69........ 5.00 .
Fruitvale ......................111........ 10.00
Grass Valley .............. 18........ 5.00
Howard ...................... 14........ 10.00

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapler
No.
Amt.
Humboldt .................. 52........ 10.00
Kern Valley · .............. 75 ........ 20.00
Keystone .................... 56........ 10.00
La Purissima ............104........ 10.00
Long Beach ................ 84........ 10.00
Los Angeles ................. 33........ 10.00
Marin ..........................102........ 10.00
Martinez ...................... 31........ 10.00
Mendocino .................. 88........ 5.00
Mill Val'.ey ................ 108........ 20.00
Mission ........................ 79........ 20.00
Napa ............................ 30........ 5.00·
Naval .......................... 35........ 10.00
N evada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Palo Alto .................... 93........ 10.00
Petaluma .................... 22........ 5.00
Redondo ...................... 101........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 3........ 10.00
San J acinto ................ 87......... 5.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Luis ...................... 62........ 10.00
Shasta .......................... 9........ 10.00
Signet .......................... 57........ 10.00
Siloam .......................... 37........ 10.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 5.00
San Diego .................. 61........ 15.00
Santa Rosa ................ 45........ 10.00
Sonora ........................ 2........ 5.00
Stockton ...................... 28........ 40.00
Temple ........................ 41... ..... 20.00
Tulare .......................... 71........ 10.00
Unity ............................116........ 5.00
Vacaville .................... 81........ 10.00
Ventura ...................... 50........ 25.00
Visalia ........................ 44........ 10.0'J
Washington ................ 13........ 10.00
W oodland ................... 46........ 5.00
Yuba City .................... llO........ 5.00

Amt.
Council
No.
Sacramento ................ 1........ 5.00
San J ose ...................... 20........ 5.00
Siskiyou ...................... 24.......: 5.00

Commandery, K . T .
Commandery
No.
Amt.
Auburn .......... ............. 52........ 2.50
Bakersfield .................. 39........ 10.00
Chico .................:.......... 12........ 10.00
Colusa .......................... 24........ 5.00
Covina .......................... 49........ 5.00
Eureka .....,.................. 35 ........ 20.00
Glendale ...................... 53........ 5.00
Golden Gate ..............., 16........ 25.00
Golden West .............. 43........ 25.00
Long Beach ................ 40........ 10.00
Los Angeles .........~.... 9........ 25.00
Marysville .................. 7........ 10.00
Mt. Olivet .................... 20........ 5.00
Mt. Shasta .................. 32........ 10.00

Commandery
No.
Amt.
San Luis Obispo ........ 27........ 10.00
Stockton ...................... 8........ 10.00
St. Bernard ................ 23........ i0.00
St. Omer ...................... 30........ 10.00

145

Commandery
No.
Amt.
Vacaville ...................... 38........ 10.00
Visalia ........................ 26........ 10.00
Watsonville ................ 22........ 20.00
Woodland .................. 21........ 5.00

A. A. 0. N . M. S.

Temple
Aahmes

Amt.
20.00

Temple
Amt.
Islam ........................................ 100.00

Lodge of P erfection, A. & A . S. R.
Lodge
Amt.
No.
California .................... 10........ 25.00
Isaac Davis ................ 4........ 10.00
Oakla nd ........................ 2........ 15.00
San Francisco ............ 1........ 25.00

Lodge
No.
Amt.
S tockton ...................... 12........ 25.00
K. C. C. H. Class........ ........200.00
S. R. Class.......... H on. 33........, W.65

o. E. s.

Council, R . & S. M.
Council
No.
Amt.
Bakersfield .................. 28........ 5.00
King So'.omon's ........ 29........ 5.00
Los Angeles ................ 11........ 10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commandery
No.
Amt.
Naval .......................... 19........ 10.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Oakland ...................... 11........ 10.00
Pacific .......................... 3........ 5.00
P alo Alto .................... 47........ 5.00
Pasadena .................... 31........ 22.25
Redding ...................... 50........ 25.50
Riverside .................... 28........ 5.00
Sacramento ................ 2........ 10.00
Sall ;Diego .................. 25 ........ 15.00
San J ose ..:................... 10........ 10.00
Santa Ana .................. 36........ 10.00
Santa Cruz ................ 44........ 5.00
San.ta Rosa .................. 14........ 13.70

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Amapola ...................... 119........ 25.05
Daylight ......................265........ 51.00
Hollenbeck ................248........ 25.00
Los Gatos .................. 128........ 25.00
Mi!! Valley ..: .............219........ 20.00
• Onisbo ..........................164........ 18.75
Rose Croix ................317....a • • 10.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
San J ose ...................... 31........ 70.00
San Rafael ..................215........ 10.00
Santa Clara ................ 195........ 25.00
Silver Wave .............. 75........ 5.00
W heatland .................. 48. ....... 10.00
Upland ........................326......., 10.50

Individuals.
Ashar, Hugo K. ..........:............ 5.00
Baker, Thomas J ..................... 10.00
Baker, R. H ............................... 10.00
Blackwell, Robert J ................. · 1.00
Bogart, C. H ............................. 2.50
Bersch, J ohn.............................. 5.00
Chamberlain, Lewis................ 100.00
Curzon, F................................... 5.00
Emerson, H . W ....................... 10.00
Fudickar, Mrs. Gustave A ..... 100.00
H amilton, Mrs. Kat~.. ............ 5.00
Hassfurther , Frank................ 5.00

Hensley, Frank A.................... 2.50
Hibbard, Oscar........................ 1.00
Huntley, J . G..,.......................... 5.00
Kirchner, Emil... ...................,... 5.00
Kuchrristed, H. A..................... 5.00
Madge, Wm. M....................... 5.00
Martin, J . F............................... 3.00
Owen~, S. G............................... 12.10
Rolph, Ronald T ....................... 25.00
Terwilliger, Albert.................. 1.00
Wood, W. IL.......................... 1.00

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Rl(SIDl(NTS AT Dl(COTO HOMI(

Following is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto Home,
the date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number
of the Lodge nominating them, and the location of such Lodges·:
Men, 84

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Location Age
Anderson, Alfred..........June 2, '20 Gravel Range .......... 59 Campton viii e..70
Anderson, C. A ............. Feb. 9, '09 . Mt. Moriah ..... ,...... 44 San Fr'ncisco.72
Baxter, Samuel M.o.....Jan. 25, 'zO La Fayette ..............126 Sebastopol ....79
Bell, Bradford ..............Dec. 5, '15' Mt. Jackson ..........259 Guerneville ..78
Bradbury, Wm. W ....... Oct. 28, '14 St. Helena .............. 93 St. Helena ....76
Broyles, Adam C......... Sept. 28, '20 Chico ......................111 Chico ,...........73
Brunson, Adam W ....... Feb. 15, '19 Tuolumne .............. 8 Sonora ..........74
Buckley, Peter..............May 21, '19 Hawaiian ................ 21 Honolulu ......74
Bruner, Henry..............]an. 10, '16 Occidental .............. 22 San Frn'cisco.73
Chamblin, M. R........... Sept. 28, '10 . Hartley ..................199 Lakeport ......92
Chapman, J. M ............... Oct. 11 '11 Concord ,.................117 Sacramento ..70
Christian, Caesar..........Mar. 3, '20 Golden Gate............ 30 San Fr'ncisco.67
Cogswell, James L .......May 19, '1_5 California .............. 1 San Fr'ncisco.91
Cole, W. N ...................:.Jan. 18, '18 Long Beach ............327 Long Beach ..86
Collins, Nelson W ....... Sept. 12, '19 Calistoga ................233 Calistoga ......57
Crail, Luke D .................June 29, '1~ Chico .........................111 Chico ..............77
Croly, James ..............o••• Mar. 31, '19 Gold Hill ................ 32 Lincoln ..........82
Davis, Charles H ...........Dec. 12, '15 Naval ...................... 87 Vallejo ........71
Davis, John M...............July 26;'17 Keith ...................... 187 Gilroy ............71
Dennis, William............Feb. 28, '11 Sierra Valley.......... 184 Sierraville ....87
Dunham, Murray.......... Dec. 11, '15 Pl um as ...~................ 00 Quincy ..........90
Fitch, Thomas.............. May 15, '20 East Gate ..............290 Los Angeles..82
Franck, Isadore..............Jan. 10, '16 La Parfaite Union 117 San Fr'ncisco.73
Finn, Alexander............May 11, '18 Ala!11eda ................ 17 Centerville ....82
Freeman, Isaac L .........Mar. 17, '18 Elk Grove ..............173 Elk Grove ......61
Fink, Conrad..................Aug. 23, '12 Hermann ................127 San Fr'ncisco.82
Gompertz, Charles F ... Oct. 19, '18 Durant ....................268 Berkeley _....85
Gregory, Anwyl... .........Jan. 31, '16 Mispah ....................378 Los Angeles..73
Guisto, John.- ................. Aug. 1, '17 Amador ........._. ....... 65 Jackson ........86
Hardage, James M..... Mar. 13, '17 Sunset ..,............:......352 Los Angeles..79
Hill, Maxwell G...........June 30, '16 Forbestown ............ SO Forbestown ..83
Hughes, Samuel............ April 18, '20 Volcano .................. 56 Volcano ........77
Jeffers, s .........................Jan. 5, '10 Eden ....,....................113 San Leandro..83
Johns, Josiah .................. April 15, '12 East Belt..................391 Tuolumne ....67
Kalfus, J . L ....................Dec. 15, '17 San Jose .................. 10 San Jose ...:....67
Keene, James................ Sept. 4, '10 Mendocino ............179 Me~docino ..83

GRAND LODGE OF. CALIFORNIA

147

Name
Admitted
Lodge ·
No. Location Age
Keller, Willis A ........... Nov. 11, '15
Mendocino . ............179 Mendocino ..70
Kennedy, Duncan..........] une .19, '17 Redlands .....:..........300 . Redlands ......73
Kerr, Earl...................... Sept. 11, 'QI) Pacific ...,................ 136 San Fr'ncisco.83
Klaassen, Henry............ Nov. 1, '17 Hermann ................ 127 San Fr'ncisco.74
LaBonte, Francis X ..... Nov. 2, '14 Reading ..................254 Redding ........73
Laskey, ' Benjamin G.....July 25, '20 Board of Relief
San Fr'ncisco.77
Linderholm, Henry......Mar. 19, '20 San Miguel..............285 San Miguel....70
Long, Edward................ May 9, '20 Fruitvale ................336 Oakland ........ 71
Lippoldt, H : A...............]an. 20, '07 Northern Light......190 Millville ........90
Magee, David B...........April 19, '11
Doric ......................216 San Fr'ncisco.79
Mehrtens, Richard ...... Nov. 12, '13 Crockett ..................139 Sa~ Fr'ndsco.75
Maniece, John ................June 17, '15
San :Diego.............. 35 San Diego......84
Metcalf, · Solon T .........Jan. 26, '18
Sequc\ia ..................349 Oakland ........79
Mitchell, Charles E ..... Nov. 20, '15 Los .Angeles .......... 42 Los Angeles..78
Meyer, Wm. D ...:......... Aug. 31, '12 Mountain View ...... 194 Mtn. View.... 59
Morgan, J osiah W ....... Aug. 11, '14 Phoenix ..................178 San B'r'd'no..88
McEwen, John H ......... Aug. 21, '13 Pajaro .................... 110 W atsonville ....75
Mission .................. 169 San Fr'ncisco.81
Ogden, B. F ..:................ April 10, '15
Olson, Ole......................Mar. 22, '16 Solano ......................229 Vallejo ..........65
Olson, Peter S...............April 28, '20 Santa· Cruz.............. 38 Santa Cruz ....74
Ong, Jackson W ...........May 12, '15 Hornitos ................ 98 -Hornitos ......90
Osmer, Reuben .............. Feb. 13, '20 McCloud ................430 McCloud ......
Nickerson, F. L.............Feb. 18, '20 San Jose .................. · 10 San Jose ........73
Payne, Edwin H ...........Mar. 28,''14 Whittier ..................323 W hittier ........82
Parini, Daniel................ Feb. 10, '14 Nevada ·,................... 13 Nevada City..82
Periam, Charles J .........Jan. 15, '18 Mission ..................169 San Fr'ncisco.78
Potting, Henry F .........May 2, '11
S. San Francisco..212 San Fr'ncisco.72
Preston, ]. N .................May 22, '12 South Gate...........:..320 Los Ange'.es..88
Redmond, Samuel....... Aug. 21, '10 Truckee ..................200 Truckee ........76
Righett'I; Robt................Mar. 9, '18 · Pentalpha ..............202 Los Angeles..69
Reynold.s, Johnson ........May 11, '18 King Solomon's ....260 San Fr'ncisco.76
Ross, Elias · E.......:......... Nov. 12, '14 Ophir ...................... 33 Murphys ......72
Rossow, Ernest :F:........Mar. 19, ' 16 Na val ..-...... __. ......... 87 Vallejo :.........66
Shepard, Amos B: ........May 20, '19 Galt ........'..................267 Galt ..., ............89
Smith, James D ...........May 12, '19
Eden · ......................113 Sari Leandro..75
'Stanton, Je<l C... :.........April 9, ' 18 Rio Vista .....:..........208 Rio Vista......79
Schwartz, 'Jacob P ....... May 4, '16 Welcome ................255 Lemoore ......67
Speidel, Adolph F .......May 19, '16 Hermann ................127 San Fr'ncisco.73
Spooner, George . C.....]une 29, '18 Evening Star..........180 Etna Mills ......79
Surface, James..............Aug. 19, '16 Ione .......................... 80 Ione ................81
T il'.son, Fred M.:.........June 18, '20 Live Oak.................. 61
Oakland ........73
Treat, James M........... Nov. 2, '15 Hesperian ..............264 Santa Maria..67

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Morning Star........ 68
Trinity .................... 27
Hiram .................... 43
Pomona ..................246
Riverbank ............. .459
San Diego................ 35

Location Age
Stockton .....:76
Weaverville ..72
El Dorado ....87
Pomona ........65
Riverbank ....75
San Diego......74

Women, 54
Ames, Minnie P .............Oct. 21, '13 Oak Grove ............215
Armantage,Theresa A. ..Jan. 5, '19 Needles ..................326
_Ayers, Sarah J ............... Mar. 19, '19 Lodi ........................256
Baxter, Mary E ...........April 16, '02 Santa Rosa ............ 57
Carlson, Laura L .........Feb. 10, '20 Excelsior ................ 166
Davis, Eliza A ...............July 26, '17 Keith ...................... 187
Donaldson, Abigael R. .. Mar. 10, '14 Vacaville ......, .........134
Dyer, Sarah ....................July 17, '()() Oriental ..................144
Davis, Grace G...............July 25, '16 Naval ...................... 87
Elder, Mary J. ..............Feb. 19, '08 Pacific .......................136
Elliott, Anna M ........... May 1, '04 Occidental .............. 22
Field, Bessie N ............. May 25, '13 Hesperian ..............264
Fitch, Helen A ............... Nov. 7, '19 Excelsior ................166
Fuller, Catherine P .....Feb. 19, '08 Michigan City........ 47
Grant, Permelia .............. Feb 2, '11
Antioch ..................175
H all, Maria A ............... Aug. 22, '19 Live Oak ................ 61
Reith, Catherine.:..........Oct. 16, '10 Fresno .................... 47
Huggiits, Augusta J .....June 6, '20 Alcatraz ..................244
Hunter, Mary R. S .......Feb. 8, '17 Russian River ........ 181
Johanningsmier,Amelia.Apr. 28, '17 Fruitvale ................336
Jenkins, Margaret........July 16, '20 Mariposa ................ 24
Harris, Bertha..............July 20, '20 Occidental .............. 22
J ones, Rosa.................... April 27, '19 San Diego .............. 35
Johnson, Maria.............. Mar. 6, '03
Summit ..................112
Kalfus, Sarah W ...........Jan. 29, '19 San Jose ................ 10
Knight, Anna R. ..........April 2, '14 Evergreen ..............259
Lawrence, Lucy P .......Nov. 21, '16 Board of Relief
Linder, Elvena B......... May 1, '18 South Gate ............320
Mast, ·Frances C........... Aug. 31, '13 Yosemite ................
McKinnon, Mary A. .... Dec. 31 , '01 Morning Star ........ 68
Moore, Emily N ........... May 7, '12 Madisoa .................. 23
Potting, Nellie E ........... May 2, '11
S. San Franci,l'.o..212
Proll, Anna R. C........... Feb. 5, ' 15 King Solomon's....260
Powell, Mary A ...........Feb. 16, ' 19 Oxnard -..................341
Ramsden, Maria L.......Dec. 8, '16 Mission ..................169

Alameda ........63
Needles ..........63
Lodi ................78
Santa Rosa ..83
San Fr'ncisco.60
Gilroy ............74
Vacaville ......88
San Fr'ncisco.82
Vallejo ..........66
San Fr'ncisco.88
San Fr'ncisco.79
Santa Maria ..87
San Fr'ncisco.83
Mich. City......75
Antioch ........79
Oakland ........84
Fresno ..........74
Oakland ........69
Windsor ........59
Oakland ........75
Mariposa' ... :..91
San Fr'ncisco.52
San Diego......76
Knights F'ry..70
San Jose ........57
Riverside ......72
San Fr'ncisco.58
Los Angeles..70
Coulterville ..75
Stockton ......75
Grass Valley..87 ·
San Fr'ncisco.76
San Fr'ncisco.62
Oxnard ..........68
San Fr'ncisco.70

Name.
Admitted
Tripp, William 0 ........... Sept, 14, 18
Van Metre, George...... Oct. 13, '19
Weil, Aaron ..................July 26, '17
Wildman, William........ Oct. 6, '19
Willis, 0. · J ..................... April 24,'20
Yats, Enoch .................... Feb. 14, '17

Name
Admitted
Redican, Mary A ......... Mar. 1, 'OS
Richardson, Julia A. .... Mar. 26, '16
Smith, Elizabeth............ Aug. 28, ' 13
Smith, Marana F ...........Nov. 21, '19
Sawyer, Ella B...............Aug. 30, ' 13
Sly, Ellen S ....................Nov. 5, '13
Shreve, Adeline............ Nov. 17, ' 18
Smalley, Emily A .........June 22, '14
Surface, Emma ..............Aug. 19, ' 16
T homas, Frances W .....Jan. 4, '04
Tilden, Cordelia............ Nov. 2, '19
Walls, Jessie.................. Nov, 13, ' 19
Wing, Isabella M ......... Mar. 19, '20
Weil, Esther...~ ................July 26, '17
W entworth, LoraniaB.. Feb. 10, '00
Wheelock, Lizzie J ....... April 17, '20
Woo!ey, J ane ..................Dec. 29, '03
Worden, Melissa ..........Mar, 27, ' 18
Wright, Sarah G........... Sept. 13, '14

Lodge
No.
Los Angeles .......... 42
Live Oak ................ 61
Friendship ............210
Morning Star ........ 68
Natoma .................. 64
· Silver Gate ............296
Alamo .................... 122
Santa Ana ..............241
lone ........................ 80
Abell ......................•. 146
Santa Cruz.............. 38
Pacific .................... 136
Caledonia ................ 1
Hiram .................... 43
Hawaiian ................ 21
Corinthian .............. 9
Alcatraz ..................244
Golden Gate .:........ 30
Eden ........................113

149

Location Age
Los Angeles ..89
Oakland ........70
San J ose ......77
S tockton ......74
Folsom ..........70
San Diego ....75
W alnut Cr'k ..85
Santa Ana ....77
Ione ..............68
U kiah ............92
Santa Cruz....77
San Fr'ncisco.69
San Fr'ncisco.82
EI Dorado....75
Honolulu ......75
Marysville......72
Oakland ........86
S~n Fr'ncisco.79
San Leandro ..82

DEPARTURES DURING THE YEAR

Name
Departed
Cause
E llis, David G ................................Nov. 1, 1919........................ Voluntary
Schulp, John .......................................:May 31 , 1920................,.......Voluntary
o ; ED DURING THE YEAR

Name
Date
Buried at
Beard, George ...................................... Sept. 19, 1919........................Decoto
Briggs, Mary ]................................... May 29, 1920........................Decoto
Broadwell, Melvin L......................... Mar. 12, 1920........................0aklantl
Brooks, Adam...................................... Oct. 20, 1919........................Placerville
Dennis, J ohn S ......_. ............................ Mar. 5, 1920........................ Decoto
Evans, Evan A .....................................Dec. 24, 1919........................Los Angeles
Fountain, Harriet E ...........................J an. 14, 1920........................0akland
French, J ohn A ...................................Feb. 1, 1920........ ~ ...............Decoto
Hodge, Edward T .........................,.....July 26, 1929................:.......Los Angeles
J oseph, Isaac C ...................................Sept. 26, 1919........................San Franciseo
Kelly, Charles M ............................... Oct. 27, 1919........................0akland
Lewty, David ...................................... Nov. 22, 1919........................Santa Maria
Levy, Samuel. ....................................... May 24, 1920........................Decoto
McNoah, John .................................... Sept. 23, 1919........................ Decoto
Rumbo!, Richa rd F-. ..........................April 31, 1920........................Redwood City
Winkler, Theophilus.......................... Nov. 3, 1919........................Decoto
Whipple, W ililiam M ......................... May 12, 1920........................ Decoto
Zimmermann, William T ................. Sept. 30, 1919........................Decoto ·

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

THE COVINA HOME
The happy, healthful and appreciative family of exceptionally
trained children at Covina, make their best report to the fraternity by
their cheerful appearance and hearty voices. To the readers of these
reports who have no opportunity to see. the children Pyrsonally, we feel
is due some description of the method of care, and results attained,
"
with these deserving children of the fraternity. .
A consistent adherence to the recom1Tlendaticins of the Department
of Pediatrics of Stanford University, gives the children a strong physical
and mental advantage. Followi'ng the annual examination, each child
is charted in such manner that a steady correction of all weaker
tendencies is made, with pleasing results. The system of individual
care instead of group or mass training, brings out the latent value of
the child in special traits or features. The proper: selection of diet, the
regulation of exercise suited to the physical needs of the individual
child, and providing indoor and outdoor diversions that promote a
mental and physical progress, are features of training made with a
systematic effort that ·develops a marked increased efficiency.
The mental development of the children is evidenced by the high
percentage of promotions in school work, and their music and memory
work at home. Their physical training shows results in hiking trips
near the Home, and in swimming at their beach camp. At Easter time
forty children averaged seven miles per day on mountain trails for
four days . . A good portion of the trip was in the deep snows of Mt.
Ba'dy, at an elevation of more than COOO feet. At Camp Tucker at
Balboa, all but five of the children learned to swim well. Forty-six of
the seventy children swam across Newport Bay, a distance of a quarter
of a mile, and twenty-one swam from the Palisades to Balboa, a distance of 1.7 miles. They are almost expert in fancy diving and feature
swimming.
With no desire to boast, but to give the fraternity a true knowledge
of th_e person~! training of the children, we must .state for them tha t
their courteous and pleasing mannerisms excite the most favorable
comment at school and among visitors. They are ch.osen for · class
officers, committee work and contests at all times. Our young folks
make every effort to be a credit to the Home, and this mention is
properly due them. When we consider that a large percentage o f the
.c hildren coming to the Home are from shipwrecked families, in some
cases without proper health or moral attention, it reflects much · credit
both upon the persevering child and its patient instructors.
An unconscious and very beautiful example of the practice of the
tenets of Masonry, is displayed in the quick assimilation of the newly
admitted child into the fu:J family spirit by the children. They intui-

.. ..
1,)L

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tively extend a fellowship that cheers and gratifies. They are exceptionally kind to each other. They sympathize with the lonesome. They
are patient with the slow. They are tolerant with the unruly beginner,
and forgiving to those who have erred or wronged. At the same time
they are keen in contests, active in sports, and most energetic to disp'.ay
a superior skill in all their Home activities.
!n this connection let us state that these industrious boys and gir.l s
are most impatient for the construction of the Vocational Training
building for boys, and the Domestic Science building for girls. As they
excel in athletic sports and school work, so should they excel in the
prai;tical work these bui!dings will provide.
Because of an unusual number of withdrawals from the Hom.e, our
number is about the same. Our last report showed sixty-six children.
We have admitted twenty-one and dismissed seventeen during the year,
totaling at this time seventy--one. A greater number of dismissals were
among the older ones, and our average age is growing lower. Norwithstanding the lower age average, we have but four children under
school age.
Our health record has been splendid. Our cares have not been
great. When a shortage of help occurred our children met the
emergency nice!y. Our inc'rease in per capita cost is remarkably less
than the increase of market prices. We attribute this to careful buying,
guarding against waste, and the watchfulness and thoughtfulness of the
children in cooperating at all times by saving clothing and supplies.
We deeply appr_e ciate the assistance and cooperation of dealers
among the craft, who render us a valuable service in timely purchases.
The teachers of our schools work with us like members of our famil y,
and our neighbors are cordial and friendly.
That the Trustees might know the compa rative sta ndard of the
schools our children attend, they requested Brother E. E. Knepper,
assistant County Superintendent o{ Schools, to make an unprejudiced
survey for their information. We are pleased to present his report:
"Los Angeles, April 5, 1920.
"Trustees Masonic Home, C9vina, California.
"D ear Brethren:
"In accordance with your request, I visited the Charter Oak Gramma r School and the Covina High School, devoting one day to a careful
examination of both schools. In making the definite inspection and
comparison you desired, I gave particular attention to the following
points :
"Organization of the teaching force.
"Amount and nature of supervision.
"Quality of instruction.
·
-ir

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALil''ORNIA

"Cooperation and team work on part of teachers.
"School atmosphere and attitude of pupils.
"Special subjects taught .in addition to the County Course nf Study.
"Material equipment, buildings, furnishings and school gt'oands.
"THE C_HARTER OAK GRAMMAR SCHOOL.-This school is situated in an
intelligent and progressive community, whose people insist upon and are
willing to provide the best possible school facilities for their children.
Until recently the building and grounds were adequate for the accommodation of the pupils in attendance, but the rapid growth of the
school will make it necessary in the near future to provide a larger and
more modern school buildiiig and an extension of the school grounds.
Happening to meet the Clerk of the School Board of this District, I
called his attention to these approaching needs and recommended that
he take up the matter with his Board, with a view of getting plans
under way for a bond issue. The district has an assessed valuation of
$1,509,225, and is amply able to bond itself for needed building purposes.
"The present school is a four-room building, with principal's office,
an excellent library, and a liberal equipment of all the accessories and
practical aids to instruction that belong to an up-to-date school. The
instructional part of the school work is in the hands of four teachers of
regular grades and five teachers of special subjects, the latter including
art, music, physical education, domestic science and manual training.
These special subjects are included in the County Course of Study, but
in this school are given an emphasis and attention that is generally
found only in the larger schools.
"In addition to this exceptionally liberal provision of instructors for
a school of this size, a certificated nurse pays a weekly visit to the
school, looking after the pupils' welfare, visiting their homes when
desired, and giving the girls of the upper grades regular instruction in
nursing and the care of children.
"The school is in charge of Miss Clara Thompson, who is recognized as one of the most capable grammar school principals in this large
county. She has her school and teaching force well organized, and the
teachers and pupils are all working in complete harmony and along the
lines of a carefully formulated plan. .This harmonious working ha5 its
reflection in the cheerful attitude of the pupils toward the school and
their work. They show a marked degree of · interest and application
and are making the most of their opportunities. I spent some time
listening to the recitations of the Seventh and Eighth. grades, and can
candidly say that, out of the thousands of young people whose class
room work I observe each year, I have not seen any who excel these
Charter Oak pupils in the sincerity of their endeavor and the intelligent
interest they take in their work. It is apparent that they are being
trained along right lines and are recei_ving the kind of instruction that
enables them not only to learn and memoriz.e, but also to think,

"The school is under the general supervision of the· County Superintendent, and a representative of this office keeps in touch with it by
paying two or more visits each year. Locally, the school has its own
principal to direct it, and is under the further supervision of District
Superintendent B. S. Mil!ikan, who is also Principal of the Covina High
and Grammar schools. As Charter Oak is a district tributary to this
union high school, its pupils are given advantages along the line of
instruction in the special branches referred to above. The ~pecial
teachers of art, music and physical education from the Covina schools
visit the school regularly and give the same instruction that is given to
the Covina schools. On certain days of the week, the large auto busses
of the Covina Union High school. take the Charter Oak boys and gir!s
of the upper grades to Covina . for instruction in manual training and
domestic science, in this way givirig them the advantage of the excellent
equipment of the larger school system.
"Viewing it from every angle, I can safely say that the Charter Oak
school, in its present excellent condition and with the possibilities for
still further material improvements, offers a complete and satisfactory
grammar school education, giving ample attention to all that pertains to
the mental, moral and physical welfare of its young people.
"COVINA UNION HIGH SCHOOL.-This High school is approximately
a mile and a half distant from both the Masonic H ome and the Charter
Oak School and its auto busses take the children of the Home to and
from their respective schools each school day. It has a teaching force
of twenty and enrollment of about four hundred. In organization,
material equipment and quality of instruction, the school is fully up
to modern requirements, and, being accredited by the University of
California, its graduates are admitted without examination to all the
institutions of higher learning.
"The buildings and grounds have the advantage of a very sightly
location in the town of Covina, and present a well kept and attractive
appearance. While the grounds are extensive and afford plenty of room
for athletics and outdoor activities, the buildings are at present feeling
the increasing pressure of a rapidly growing student body, and additional
buildings will before long have to be considered, especially in view of
the recent law raising the age of compulsory attendance, so ·that practically all eighth grade graduates will be required t~ go on for at least
a year or two in High school. The erection and equipment of more
buildings, which must of necessity come, will afford opportuniti •!~ for
adding larger additional facilities to the present equipment.
"The teaching force of the H igh school is made up of instructors
of experience and ability, and the various departments are equipped
with everythin~ that is needed to make the instruction effective. 'the
recitation rooms are large and well lighted, and in the furnishing of

152

154

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the science laboratories, woodshops and departments of Art, Music,
Commerce, and Home Economics, no expense or pains have been spared
in providing liberally for all the educational needs of the young people
in attendance.
"A careful observation of the school advantages offered to the
children of the Masonic Home who complete the grammar course at
the Charter Oak school and enter the Covina Union High school convinces me that it would be difficult to find a place where better provisions could be made for this phase of their education and preparation
for lives of future usefulness.
"Very sincerely yours,
(Signed)
"E. E. KNEPPER,
"Assistant Supt. of Schools,
"Los Angeles County, Cal."
VISITATIONS

The growing interest of members of the Eastern Star; the Amaranth and many other ladies associated with the fraternity, is pleasing
to the Home. The visitations of Lodges and Chapters have been
p'.easant and helpful. Visits of the Grand officers of the several bodies,
and other prominent Masons are appreciated. The foll.owing are some
of the occasions made happy by our friends.
September 1st, 1919. Rising Light Lodge No. 397 and Rising
Light Chapter No. 286, 0. E. S., visited the ·children in camp at Balboa.
September 21st. Representatives of Yorba Linda, Buena Park and
Culver City Lodges visited and left a generous supply of fruits and
jams.
September 29th. Boys' Drill Team entertained in Los Angeles by
J innistan Grotto.
October 4th. Los Angeles Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S .. visited in
good numbers and were generous with their fruits and jellies. They
entertained the children at lunch.
October 5th. Golden State Chapter No. 298, 0. E. S., ca'led in
good numbers with fruit and jells. The children entertained.
October 8th. The Inspectors of the local districts spent an enjoyable evening with the children.
November 2nd: Daylight Chapter No. 265, 0 . E. S., visited in
good numbers and entertained the children with good program. Left
a good supply of fruits and jams.
November 6th. Bro. H. Ray Fry of San Jose, Grand Master of
the Council R. & S. M., and other Grand officers.
November 8th. Fifty-four young people of the Junior class of
Covina High school entertained by Alice Fisher, Vice President of the
class.

155

November 9th. Pomona Chapter No. 110 called. An exchange of
musical numbers and readings made a pleasant visit. Canned fruit~
and other favors.
November 23rd. South. Gate Lodge No. 320 and South Gate
Chapter No. 133, 0. E. S., gave the children a basket lunch and a good
time. Children entertained. Largest attendance of the year. Generous
contribution of good things to eat.
November 23rd. Elysian Chapter No. 354, 0 . E . S. Pleasing entertainment.
November 30th. Redondo Lodge No. 328. Basket picnic, fruits
and entertainment.
December 14th. Fullerton Lodge No. 339, with members of Eastern
Star and other ladies, came in big numbers by autos. This good Lodge
is always most generous in their exceptional hospitality and quantities
of their fruits.
December 20th. Monarch Tom Wi '. son and members of the Jinnistan Grotto gave a · good show, also $2 to each child for savings
account. One dollar to each child to spend as they liked and casi1 for
another ' boat.
December 21st. Sunday before Christmas, .a big day. A wonderful
year for Eastern Star bodie.s. The Matrons, Patrons and Trailers
Association were always thoughtful of the children. ' They furnished
a room for three sisters and have subsequently been ·keeping in touch
with the needs of this particular room. On this particular day many
of the Chapters of this association remembered the children .with some
generous Christmas suggestion.
Among them were representatives from the fol:owing:
Los A.n geles Chapter No. 168 furnished Isolation room in Girls'
building.
East Gate ·chapter No. 225, fruits, clothing and games.
"As You Like It" Club of East Gate Chapter. Christmas presents.
Marribee Club and Culver City Lodge. Fruits, jells and Christmas
stockings.
Loyalty Chapter No. 217. Fruits and Christmas packages.
Harbor Chapter No. 174 of San Pedro. Well selected present for
each child.
Chispa Chapter No. 151 of Anaheim. Good supp'.y of fruits and
walnuts.
South Gate Chapter o. 133. Gifts for children.
La Paloma Chapter No. 202 of Covina. Fruits and jams.
Van Nuys Chapter No. 338 and Van Nuys Lodge No. 450. Good
supply of fruits.
Long Beach Chapter No. 173. One dollar for each child and a
box of candy each.

'

156

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Montebello Chapter No. 335. Comfort made by members.
Jasamine Chapter No. 145. Eighty boxes of home mad~ candy.
Sister Mary E. Kaster, Matron of Garvanza Chapter No. 266.
Beautiful quilt made by herself for M. P. T. room.
Sister Madge H. Connell, Matron South Gate Chapter No. 133,
0. E. S. Spring board for plunge.
Mrs. W. V. Whitson of Hermosa Chapter No. 105, Santa Ana.
·Two linen center pieces.
Bro. Fred Shriner, Patron of West Lake Chapter No. 268. $10.00
merit prizes for the children.
Mrs. Arthur C. Hess, Matron Eagle Rock Chapter No. 313. Handkerchiefs for girls.
During this wonderful day also were the representatives of many
Lodges, presenting jams and jellies that, of course, were not put up
by the men, but not given through the Star. The same appreciation
is extended the helpful ladies of these Lodges whose identification is
obscured in the names of the Lodges in the list of donations.
December 29th. The officers and men of . the U. S. Battleship
"Mississippi" made the children their guests for the day on this magnificent boat. The men paid the children's transportatron to San Pedro,
and gave them a good dinner on board, then gave a Christmas tree
programme.
January 4th,"1920. Mrs. E. P. Ingmire, Matron of Harbor Chapter
No. 174, with a number of men of the Battleship "Mississippi," visited
the Home.
January 9th . . Jinnistan Grotto No. 76 gave the children a big
reception at Shrine Auditorium. They presented our Boys' Drill Team
with beautiful Oriental drill uniforms. The Girls' Mandolin Club gave
them several numbers.
January 17th. Girls' Mandolin Club and six boys helped to entertain at the annual m_eeting of the Southern California Past Masters'
Association. All enjoyed the meeting.
January 18th. Members of Vitagraph Company, through Bro. Roy
McCray, took all the children in autos for a day's ride and lunch in
the country.
February 1st. Members of Santa Monica Lodge visited the Home
and left fruits and treats.
February 7th. Bro. Roy McCray of East Gate Lodge No. 290 and
members of the Vitagraph Company entertained with a splendid vaudeville program.
February 15th. Grand Master Charles Albert Adams formally
accepted the gymnasium equipment from the six Lodges forming the
62nd Masonic district near Covina.
February 19th. Five children took part in the dedication of the
new Masonic Temple at Buena Park.

157

April 1st to 4th. Forty children hiked on the road to Camp Baldy
and spent four days on the trails in the mountains. This was a most
·healthful and enjoyable trip. The Camp Baldy Company very generously housed the children in tents, and gave them all the privileges
of the grounds without cost. Mr. and Mrs. McCulloch treated the
children like royal visitors.
April 11th. West Gate Lodge No. 335 attended in a large body.
They presented the fine Holstein cow "Essie" and made the occasion
a real holiday. Lunch was served to the children, and races and sports
enjoyed in the afternoon.
April 25th .. University Lodge No. 394 makes their day an annual
affair much to anticipate. A good entertainment of good films and
program . . A generous supply of fruits and jams.
May 2nd. Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 and their families participated
in a big day with the children. Lunch, games and fruits were tht
features.
May 8th. Through the courtesy of Bro. Chas. E . White of Highland Park Lodge, the Fifty-second Street school orchestra entertained
·
the children. This was .a much appreciated treat.
May 9th. For three years the Masonic bodies of Glendale have
chosen Mother's Day to visit our Home. Each family adopts one of
our children for the day, and it is made a happy occasion. Each child
was filled with joy and food. The Lodge gave each child a box of
fine chocolates. The Star ladies loaded them with jam, and one brother
"gave' each child a dollar for its bank account.
May 16th. Members of San Bernardino Lodges and Silver Wave
Chapter No. 75, 0. E. S., called for a day and gave the children a
happy time. San Bernardino proved to the children that they have
good crops of jam in their section. They also contributed $75.00 to
their camp and hiking fund.
June 4th. The children were the guests of Pomona Chapter No.
110, O. E. S., in a beautiful drive in autos about Pomona, and a delicious dinner in the Temple . . A delightful and most neighborly visit.
June 23rd. Ocean Park Chapter No. 245, 0. E. S., and their
splendid Wimodasis Club gave the children a wonderful day at Ocean
Park and Venice: All concessions, which were new to the children,
were at their 'comrr;and, and the "mothers" in charge were splendid
ho~.tesses. A delightful and very hearty luncheon was served by the
ladies.
August 15th. Redondo Lodge and ladies visited the children in
camp. They gave them a picnic lunch, and enjoyed a lively day in the
water.

Ei8

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

August 15th. Bro. P. G. M. F. V. Keesling, to whom the children
are much endeared, as it was he who laid their cornerstone and dedicated their buildings, spent the day in camp and had a swim with the
children.
DONATIONS TO THE COVINA HOM:E

Donations are not regarded as a mere assistance in maintenance.
The value lies in the desire to give to the children something unusual
in supplies, c'.othing or visits. A professional or individual service
rendered is of much greater value than money could buy, because of
the personal and sincere desire of the donor to benefit the Home by
the service.
·
·
.
A much appreciated and very valuable service this year was that
of Drs. Arthur J . Ritter and Harold K. Faber in making the physical
and mental survey for the Department of Pediatrics of Stan·f~rd University. Aside from the great value of the work of the University,
the personal interest of the doctors individually in the children, with
whom they now feel acquainted., is of great assistance to those working
at the Home. The fraternity and the children owe much to these
good men.
Pursuant to the recommendations made in the annual surveys, the
most skilled physicians are secured to give special treatments and
~nake necessary physical corrections. The past year we are particularly
indebted to Dr. J . M. Dunsmoor, Dr. Nannie C. Dunsmoor, Dr. Geo.
P. Waller, Dr. C. H . Criley, Dr. L. R. Linhart, Dr. Robt. M. Dunsmoor,
Dr. Walter R. Crane, Dr. Eleanor Seymour and Dr. Chas. S. Young.
The operations were largely for removal of adenoids, tonsilectomies
and circumcisions. Treatments for corrective measures were all skillfully handled.
The dental care of children is an important factor.. The teeth
are kept in splendid condition, but more attention must be given to
orthodontal work. Among the dentists who have contributed their
services to the children are Dr. I. D. Nokes, Dr. H. E. Ransom, Dr.
.
S. E. Burke and Dr. W . T. Stover.
Among the steady, a'.1-the-year-round friends of the Home are Bro.
P. G. M. Hervey and his good wife, who' are always thoughtful 'of the
needs and pleas·ures of the children. Brother Hervey is always ready
with his time and good counsel, and Mrs. Hervey has a well' organized
army of good ladies who see that the children are not overlooked during
the fruit-canning season.
·
Sister Kate M. Hamilton remembered th.e children ~t Christmas
time, and on the organization of a new mandolin . club this year, gave
us $100.00 toward the purchase of new instruments.
Bro. W. H. Engle of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 is much interested
with the boys in cultivating bees. They have enjoyed some success and
much pleasure in this venture.

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

l 59

Other donations received are as follows:
Donor
Article
G. Edwin Williams, Wilshire No. 445 .. 8 lbs. Bishop's mixed · candy.
Mission Chapter No. 155, 0 . E. S..... 7 books, papers and magazines, bmc of
nut fluffs, mixed cakes, 100 glasses of
jells and fruit.
Mrs. Alice M. Aten, Los Angeles ........ Books.
Bro. C. P. Mallory, Los Angeles.......... 157 lbs. beans.
Onisbo Chapter No. 164, 0. E. S ......... $13.75 Treat fund.
Mr. Geo. W. Richardson, Glendora.... Sheets, pillow cases, towels, toys, magazines.
Bro. Fred J . Elsensohn, Wilshire
Chapter No. 329, 0 . E. S...................38 watermelons.
Bro. Chester C. Conklin, University
Lodge, No. 394...................................... 100 suckers.
Mr. and Mrs. Krohn, Los Angeles.... 10 pts. fruit, 1 pt. jam, 3 glasses jelly.
James Sheddan, Silver Wave Chapter
No. 75, 0 . E. S ................................... Doriated peaches to ladies of Chapter,
who made peach butter for children.
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Howes, Silver
Wave Chapter No. 75, 0. E. S .......6 qts. apricots, 7 glasses jel!y.
Mrs. A. W . Berkeley, Silver Wave
Chapter No. 75, 0 . E. S .....................7 glasses j elly.
Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Rose, San Bernardino .................................................. 2 qts. jelly.
Mrs. Stevens, Silver Wave Chapter
No. 75, 0. E. S ....................................... 2 qts. preserves.
Mrs. F . Bader, Fresno............................ 35 lbs. grapes.
Bro. and Mrs. Robt. Wilson, Anaheim
Lodge No. 207.....,...................;..............4 lbs. figs, 1 glass jelly.
Mrs. Wm. McCann, Chispa Chapter
No. 251, 0. E. S ................................... l glass jelly.
Buena Park Lodge No. 357.................... 0 gallon honey, 32 qts. fruit, 122 glasses
of je!ly.
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469..................38 lbs. apples, 290 qts. frui t, 20 glasses
of jelly.
Culver City Lodge No. 467.................... 36 lbs. candy, 15 0 qts. fruit, 10 glasses
of jelly.
Mrs. Madge H . Connell, South Gate
Chapter No. 133, 0. E. S ......~ ........... 2 qts. fruit, 1 glass jelly.
Bro. Chester Conklin, University
Lodge No. 394.....................................'. Moving pictures many times.
Bro. Wm. Taylor, Highland Park
Lodge No. 382......................................65 lbs. candy.
Member of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.. l doz. glasses of jelly.

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donor
Article
Mission Lodge No. 169............................ 13 books.
Henry Clairville..........................:............• ~ records.
Mrs. E. C. Magauran, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, 0. E. 5 ................... 6 g'.asses jelly.
Marvin and Katheryn Loughbom, Los
Angeles Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S ... 75 suckers.
Mrs. Anna Turner, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S ................. 7 lbs. home made candy.
Mr. P. C. Bayne, Los Angeles Chapter No. 168, 0 . E. 8 ............................. ~1.00, Treat fund.
Dr. W. A. Wagner, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S ................. <t:l.00, Treat fund.
Mr. E. C. Magauran, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S ..............:.. ~1.CO, Treat fund.
Mrs. E. C. Magauran, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S ................... <t:t.00, Treat fund.
Mr. H. A. Schroeder, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S ................... <t:5.00, Treat fund.
Bro. A: C. Drake, Le;dngton Lodge
No. 104, F. & A. M.............................. 'i40 lbs. Lady Wa~hington beans.
Bro. and Mrs. Herman C. Smith,
Wilshire Lodge No. 445.................. _ 1 doz. pts. preserves, 1 doz. glasses d
jelly.
Bro. R. E. Dill, South G;,ite Lodge
No. 320................................................._. \ £'al. ripe olives.
Bro. E. McConnell, Unity Lodge No.
368 ......:..................................................... Tjttle girls' toys, 5 books.
Dr. Arthur J. Ritter, Marin Lodge
No. 191.................................................... Two fitfe pigs.
Bro. and Mrs. H. H. Loose, Glendora
Lodge No. 404........................................ 12 qts. jam.
Bro. James Webster, Westlake Lodge
No. 392.......................................;.......:.... 12 qts. fruit.
Mrs. William DeMille, Hollywood......7 qts. fruit.
. Bro. Max Deman, South Gate Lodge
No. 320..................................................... 5 glasses jelly, 1 gal. preserves.
Mrs. Wm. H. Tuck, Los Angeles......6 qts. fruit.
Mrs. Donald Gray, Venice.................... I qt. jam.
Bro. Ralph A. Chase, Sunset No. 352.. 'i ga'.s. honey.
Fraternity Chapter No. 288, 0 . E. S .. 1 basket ball set.
Bro. Geo. C. Johnson, East Gate No.
290 .......................................................... ' pt: jelly, 6 glasses jelly.
R. H. Baker, Los Angeles.................... · r. p:cces of linen.

GRAND LODGE OF CALiFORNIA

161

Donor
Article
Grand Lodge Banquet ............................ $1.50 for Treat fund.
Hollywood Constellation No~ 209, 0.
E. S.....................................~ ................... 8 comforts.
Colton Chapter No. 211, 0. E. S ......... 7 qts. jelly, 13 pts. j elly, 29 glasses jelly.
Wm. J. Fleckenstein, Los Angeles
No. 42...................................................... 2 qts. honey and jam.
Mrs. Don C. Grayson, Los Angeles.... 5 doz. · handkerchiefs, $1.00 for Treat
fund.
Dr. J.C. Horton, Sunset No. 352........ l ·doz. jars canned fruit.
Mrs. P . L. Tople, Santa Ana ................ 1 center piece.
Mr. Charles Day, De Pauw Lodge,
Indiana No. 338.................................... $5.00 for Treat fund.
Arroyo Lodge No. 274............................ 1 sack walnuts.
Mrs. M. C. Rice, Ocean Park................ 12 glasses quince honey.
South , Gate No. 320.:.............................. 44 pieces of orchestra score.
Neville Tilston, Lysle Tilston, Henry
Clairville and Newell Brown............ 6 piano records.
Hayward Ch~pter No. 331, 0. E. S ..... 3 pts. jelly, 1 pt. preserves, 24 glasses
jelly.
San Bernardino No. 348........................ 42 qts. canned fruit, 17 qts. jelly, 9 pts.
je!ly, 40 lbs. hickory nuts, 60 glasses
jelly.
Bro. Philip Marx, Tehachapi No. 313. 1 box apples.
Mrs. D. J. Brownstein, Los Angeles.. A lot of nice clothing.
Circle 313 of the 0. E. S., Eagle
Rock ......................................................~. l center piece, 1 comfort.
Pacific Grocery & Supply...................... I gal. jelly.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308........................ 28 lbs. orange marmalade.
Mrs. P. Feddersohn, Puente Chapter
No. 325, 0. E. S ................................... 2 sacks English walnuts.
Mrs. G. E. Stevens, Inglewood............ Some nice clothing.
Bro. F. G. Young, Golden State No.
358 ...............................- ......................... 30 lbs: mixed candy.
Mrs. annie A. Crouch, Los Angeles.3 comforts.
Kwality Feather Co., Los Angeles ...... 50 lbs. cretonne.
Bro. F. E. Wolf, South Gate No. 320.. Pictures, cards, etc.
Bro. Frederick C. Bell, South Gate
No. 320.................................................... 30 lbs. candy. •
Mrs. Madge H . Connell, South Gate
Chapter No. 133, 0 . E. S ................... 75 sticks candy.
Bro. Edward G. Binz, South Gate
No. 320.................................................... 1 doz. bottles of cough syrup.

162

PROCEKJJINGS OF 'l'HE

Article
Donor
Bro. Otto Rumage, West Gate No.
335----------------·····-···-··········· .....................6 lbs. candy:
Bro. D. B. Peters, South Gate No.
320 ..........:............................................... 10 gals. molasses, 12 lbs. candy.
Los Angeles Grocery, South Gate
Lodge and Chapter ...........................-.0 doz. crocks jam, 2 ~oz. cans vege~a.
bles, 2 doz. cans fruit, 1 doz. Hemz
products.
'
Mary El'.a Leeds, Los Angeles ............ $1.45 for Treat fund, 35 sticks of gum,
22 sticks candy.
Bro. Fred J. Young, Golden State
·
.
No. 3sS............................. ,...................... 136 Christmas cards, 17 pkgs. Chnstmas
seals.
Bro. and. Mrs. Orton Hosie, Hollen.
beck 319..................................................10 qts. canned fruit, 1 pt. canned fruit,
'
2 glasses jelly.
R. B. Sutherland, Glendora .................... 56 lbs. rhubarb. .
Mill Valley Chapter No. 219, O. E. S.8 qts. canned fruit, 19 gfasses jelly.
University Lodge No. 394, University
Chapter No. 356, O. E. S................... 50 qts. canned fruit, 14 pts. jelly.
45 glasses jelly, 5 crocks jelly, 1 can
jelly, 1 can shortening, 1 bottle catsup.
Mrs. J. F. Faber, University Chapter
No. 356, 0. E. S ...............,.................... Girls' clothing.
Mrs. Fred P. Tucker, Redondo .......... ! string of rose beads.
Bro. Jos. F. Kessel, Redondo No.
328 .......................................................... $5.00 for Treat fund.
Bro. L. C. Roberts, Redondo No. 328.$5.00 for Treat fund.
Bro. Saml. Kirshenbaum, Silver
Trowel Lodge No. 415 ....................... .4 lbs. fig jam, 4 lbs. marmalade, Y lbs.
animal crackers and candy.
Gardena Chapter No. 260, 0. E. S ..... 40 lbs. rice, 1450 qts. fruit, 6 qts. jelly,
4 bottles piccalilli.
Bro. E. J. Britt, South Gate No. 320.. 670 lbs. paper pads.
R. L. Craig & Co., South Gate No.
320 ········---···-·····-· .......................,............ 117 lbs. brown sugar.
South Gate Lodge No. 320.................... 6 doz. pencils.
Bro. M. Danziger, Silver Trowel No.
145, 0. E. S ..................... :....................... $5.00 for Treat fund and clothing.
R. H. Baker, Los Angeles .................... Samples of linen.
Mizpah Chapter No. 100, 0. E. S....... 20 qts. fruit, 25 glasses jelly.
Martha W ashingten Chapter No. 13,
No. 145, O. E. S ...................................8 qts. canned fruit, 38 glasses- jelly.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163

Donor
Article
Mary M. Whitson, Hermosa Chaptet
No. 105, 0 E. S ................................... 14 qts. fruit butter.
Mrs. Flora Goff, Jasmine Chapter
140, 0. E. $ ................,............................ 2 qts. jelly.
]. Casson Boweri and Mrs. Julia A.
Bowen, Pomona Chapter No. 110,
0 . E. S.......................;............................. 2 comforts.
Rro. E. V. Stewart, Scottish Rite
Bodies .................................................... 19 books, 1 pr. Indian clubs, 1 pr. dumb
bells.
Arlington No. 414.................................... 24 glasses jelly.
Bro. F. W. Gray, Whittier..................:.Pruned all citrus trees.
West Lake Lodge No. 392.................... 17 qts. canned fruit, 5 qts. jelly, 75
glasses jelly, 1 bottle horseradish, 1
bottle cherries, 2 pkgs. raisins, 2
pkgs. figs.
Lily M. Thomas, Columbus, 0 ............. $1 for Treat fund.
Bro. R. H. Ingram, Richmond No.
.
375 ...................................................- .... Magic lantern, postals,
pr. Indian
clubs, 4 games, stereoscope, pictures
and 10 books.
R. A. Andrew, Chicago.......................... ! record.
W. R. Tuck, El Segulida...................... 2 qts. preserved apricots, 0 lb. candy,
50 lbs. popcorn, 157 home made
cookies.
Dr. N. J. Brown, Bakersfield ................$20.00 for Treat fund.
Mrs. P . M. Crawford, Mrs. J. E.
Hubbard, Mrs. P. Johnson and
Mrs. ]. W. Lucas .................................. 3 qts. canned fruit and 4 glasses jelly.
Mrs. H. E. Maurer, Los Angeles ........ ! gal. piccalilli.
R. H . DeWitt , Yreka.............................. J oh n "'I
· book for year 1920
"' artm
'Bro. F. E. Williams, Pofuona .............. $1.00 for Treat fund.
.
Rro. C. Day, De Pauw No. 338, ·Indiana ......................................................$5.00 for Treat fund 1 book
Bro. P . C. Miller, University No. 392.. 1 guitar. ·
'
·
Newell Brown and Lysle Tilston ........ 2 piano records.
Mrs. E. L. Mobarry, Los Angeles ...... $1.00 for Treat fund.
Mrs. Don C. Grayson, Los Angeles .. .4 comforts, 4 books
Mizpah Chapter No. 100, 0. E. S .......$3.60 for Treat fund·, 15 qts. canned fruit,
2 qts. jelly, 3 glasses jelly.
Bro. Tully Marshall, Henry S. Orme,
No. 458.................................................... 1 box oranges.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

164

Donor

Article

Brother F. M. Murphy, Chicago .......... 1 book.
Bro. C. M. Wollenberg, San Fran.cisco ........................................................ 1 Victrola record.
Exeter No. 424, F. & A. M .................. .42 qts. canned fruit, 3 qts. jelly, 13 lJIS.
jelly and 4 glasses jelly.
Inspector Robie E. Dill of 56th District ....................................................... .4 qts. ripe olives.
Bro. H. M. Mingay, Monrovia No.
308 .......................................................... $2.00 for Treat fund.
H. P . Balcom, Santa Paula, Cal.. ......... 125 lbs. walnuts.
Mrs. F. Geiger, Rising Light Chapter No. 286.............................................. Magazines.
Anna Sawyer Gardena .......................... Sofa pillow.
Golden State 'No. 358.............................. 3 pts. jelly, 11 glasses jelly.
Mrs. W . V. Witson, Santa Ana .......... Piano scarf.
Bro. Hoogendyk and Charter Oak
Citrus Association ................................ Oranges the year around.
Miss Dorothy Lyndall ............................ Instruction in classic dancing.
A prominent Mason ......................·.......... Graduating suit for a boy and twn
graduating dresses for girls.
101 Club of San Francisco .................... Refreshments for two evenings for
entire Home.
Juliun J. Williams .................................;.. Clothing.
Bro. Wm. A. Sherman, Presidio No.
354 ..... ~ ....................................................4 Bubble books.
Pomona Court No. 28, O. O. A ........... I qt. preserves, 4 qts. jam, 3 pb. jam,
25 glasses jams and jellies.
•
•
•
.. ,
Mr. John Briegel, Pomona .................... 'Z qts. preserves.
1
Yorba Linda No. 469.............................. 10 qts. preserves, 1. g.ass Jelly, 1 1.a r· 1_
corn.
Mrs. J. E'. Harshman, Los Angeles ...... 1 child's apron.
.
A friend ...................................................... 1 sweater, 1 pr: white shoes.
Southland Social C:ub of Southland
Chapter No. 307, O. E. S ... ;.............. 5?5 01 for Treat fm~d.
Ronald Swanson, Pasadena ...................6 Edison records.
Mrs. Abrahamson, Daylight Chapter
265 ................................................. ~ .......... $1.00 for Treat fund.
Mrs. Goldberg. Los Angeles .................. $1.00 for Treat fund.
Bro. W . M. Clemmons, Elysian No.
418 ............................................................ $3.00 for Treat fund.
Bro. and Mrs. Otto Rumage, West
Gate No. 335 ..........................................6 lbs. hard candy._
Mrs. Snyder, Pomona ..............................3 pts. marmalade.

16fi

Donor
Article
Members of West Gate Lodge No.
335 .....................................................·.... .
M. Robinson .............................................. 1 box candy, 1 qt. jam.
J. R. Brilliant... .............................. ~ .......... 5 lbs. apples, 1 doz. oranges, 11 banana··.
Frieda Marks ............................................ 3 doz. cookies, 3 glasses jelly.
Mrs. W. Fox .............................................. 3 doz. cookies, 1 glass jelly.
Bro. and Mrs. Joel... .................................2 pkgs. figs, I pkg. raisins, 1 qt j1·lly.
Bro. M. A. Newmark .............................. 5 gals. honey.
Bro. and Mrs. Brackett.......................... 5 lbs. candy.
Bishop and Company.............................. 30 lbs. broken mixed candy.
Bro. and Mrs. F. W. Fernholtz ............ 1 pt. jam, I qt. jam.
Bro. S. Glicksburg.................................... 1 qt. honey.
Dr. Myerson ...........'............,...................... 1 can honey, 2 glasses jelly.
Mrs. Cummins .......................................... 1 pt. jam.
Bro. H. Leon .............................................. 1 pt. canned fruit.
Bro. M. Russator ...................................... 2 glasses jelly.
Bro. L. Leigenburg .................................. 2 glasses jelly.
Bro. Harris ................................................ 1 qt. jelly.
Bro. Robert Craig.................................... 1 qt. jam.
Bro. H. Levine .......................................... 1 qt. canned .fruit.
Bro. Ben Goldberg.............................. n .. 1 jar jam. ·
Dr. Emerson .............................................. 1 pt. jam.
Bro. Fred Margaretten ....................... :.... 2 glasse~ jelly.
Th Trs. Bartosch ............................................ 'Z glasses jelly.
Mrs. Hall.................................................... I glass jelly.
Mrs. Boswell .............................................. 2 pts. preserves.
Bros. Blumberg and Horowitz .............. 6 crocks jelly.
Bros. Mitchell and Brown ...................... 12 glasses jelly.
Bros. Vigna! Pagliano ............................ 48 cans apricot jam.
Bro. John Schwartz ................................ 'Z qts. canned fruit, 1 pt. jt'lly.
Bro. Katz .................................................... 2 pts. preserves.
Bro. A. Hammer ...................................... 1 pt. canned fruit.
Mrs. H. S. Thompson ............................ 2 glasses jelly.
Mrs. G. M. Thompson ............................ 2 glasses jelly.
Mrs. J. D. Kaufman ............................... .1 glass jelly.
Mrs. J. Engle ............................................ 1 qt. canned fruit.
Bro. C. D. Haugh .................................... 2 glasses jelly.
Bro. Wm. T. Perkins ............................. -1 glass jelly.
Bro. E. G. Hamilton ................................ 1 qt. jam.
Mrs. Brostaff............................................ 1 glass jelly.
Mrs. M. Raphael... ................................... 1 pt. jelly.
Mrs. Miller ................................................ 1 pt. jelly.
Mrs. M. P. Levy ........................................ I pt. preserves.

GflAND LODGE OF CA1.uronNJA

166

167

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donor
Article
Mrs. C. Jacobsen...................................... 1 glass jelly.
Bro. J. C. Cummings.............................. I pt. jelly, I qt. canned fruit, 1 glass
jelly.
Bro. Fred Schwartz................................2 jars jam.
Mrs. J. C. Cole.......................................41.00 for Treat fund.
Bro. Wm. Bruck.c...........•..........:............. 3 glasses jelly.
West Gate Members................................ 31 glasses jelly, 6 cans fruit.
Inglewood Chapter No. 309, 0. E. S... 15 qts. preserves, 10 glasses jelly.
Bro. and Mrs. D. J. Brownstein.......... Good clothing.
Mr. L. D. Nesbit, University No. 394.. 5 lbs. candy.
Bro. G. M. Wollenberg.........................'.5 lbs. chocolate bars.
Bro. W. L. McLeod, Mizpah No.
378 ....................................................- ...:$6.00 for Treat fund.
Bro. R. A. Peabody, Lincoln No. 470.. $1.00 for Treat fund.
·
Mrs. S. G. Persons, Pomona Chapter
No. 110..................................................-$2.00 for Treat fund.
M. F. Williams, Pomona Chapter No.
110 ............................................................$1.00 for Treat fund.
Lieut. Dinger, Ungava Chapter,
o. E.
-······-···$1.00.
F ri~nd ........................................................95c . for Treat fund.
Temescal Lodge No. 314........................ 60 lbs. strained honey, $2.45 Beach fund.
C. M. Seville, Temescal No. 314.......... $5.00 for Beach fund.
Crown Chapter No. 162, 0. E. S ......... 16 qts. canned fruit, 1 qt. chili sauce, I
qt. pickles, 2 qts. olives, 2 qts. jelly,
10 cans fruit, 4 glasses jelly.
Bro. Frank Herkelrath, Evergreen
No. 259......................:............................. 36 lbs. candy.
Carnation Chapter No. 171, 0. E. S..... 18 qts. canned fruit, 3 qts. jelly, 8
glasses jelly, 5 jars jam, 10 cans fruit.
4 cans dill pickles, 2 pkgs. raisins.
Bro. W. ]. Johnson, Ramona No.
457 ...............................,................:......... 50 lbs. apricots.
Bro. and Mrs. H. L. Marvin, San
Francisco ................................................ 1 crate of melons.
Bro. H. E. Bowman, Calexico No.
412 .......................................................•.:..2 crates cantaloupes.
Matrons Association of 1920, San
Francisco ..............................................Sewing for 53 girls' aprons.
Bro. ]. C. Foster, Brooklyn No. 225..$2.00 for Treat fund.
Dr. W. S. Gibson, University No.
394 ........................................................•... 25 lbs. cherries.
Bro. Leonard Kingsbaker, West Gate
~ o. 335 .................................................... 25 lbs. cherries.

s..............................,.........

Donor
Article
Reception of Grand Master......•............. 781 sandwiches, cake etc.
'
Holtville No. 425...................................... 10 gals. honey. ·
Newell J. Brown, Bakersfield................$20.00 Entertainment fund.
II. E. Bowman, Calexico No. 412........2 crates cantaloupes.
Taft Chapter No. 337, 0. E. S ............. oJd clothing.
Bro. and Mrs. J. M. Boyd, Fairmont
No. 435............................:.......................$1.00 for Treat fund.
Bro. and Mrs. A. T. Goshorn, Hollenbeck No. 319..........................................$1.00 for Treat fund. ·
Jack Borchert, Long Beach.................... JOO malted milk bars.
Bro. C. F. Fennema, Belvedere............61 books, 15 pamphlets.
IIerman Smith, Los Angeles................ 6 qts. jam.
Anna Petersen, San Francisco............$5.00 for Tre~t fund.
Bro. Caspar Muller, Richmond No.
375 ......................:...............,..................... $1.00 for Treat fund.
Marian Van Buskirk......:....................... Candy.
Bro. Wm. H . Howe, South Gate No.
220 .......................................................... 4 qts. canned fruit, pt. canned fruit. 6
glasses jelly.
Friend ....................................................... 75c for Treat fuml .
CHRISTMAS DONATIONS

Bro. and Mrs. J. R. Ruckstell, Mission No. 169............................................ "The Birds of North America."
Oroville No. 103........................................6 gals. ripe olives:
Dr. and Mrs. Lew E. Wallace, Richmond No. 375 ......................................,.6 books.
Mr. J. J. Thomas, Columbus, 0 ........... 1 handkerchief for each child.
Bro. F. B. Silverwood, Southern
California No. 278................................89 boxes candy.
King David's No. 209.............................. 48 lbs. walnuts.
Pacific Knitting Mills............................ 5 sweaters.
.California Almond Growers Association ....................................................60 lbs. almonds.
Isabelle Yaeger ........................................ 5 lbs. chocolate.
·Louis Scholler, Fresno............................ I box oranges.
Pacific Grocery & Supply C.0.................1 gal. ripe olives.
Bro. Fred J. Young, Golden State
No. 358.................................................... A generous quantity of toys, games,
boxes and water colors.
Mrs. Emily A. Pugh, Pasadena ............ Dressed 21 dolls.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0. E. S ..... Present for each child, 10 lbs. cluster
raisins, 20 lbs. candy.

168

rnnc;,;EDINGS OF THE

Donor

GRAND LODGE OF CAi,JFORNIA

Article

Euclid Chapter No. 179, 0. E. S ........... $3.60 for. Treat fund.
Upland Chapter No. 346, 0. E. S ....... $10.50 for Treat fund, 27 qts. canned
fruit, 1 pt. jelly, 2 glasses jelly, 1 can
jelly.
Broadway Department Store ................. 30 lbs. broken mixed candy.
Ladies Auxiliary of Berkeley Commandery K. T. No. 42.......:................ 1 lb. box candy for each child.
Palestine No. 351...................................... 2 lbs. mixed nuts, 1 tiny doll, 4 qts. jam.
Mizpah No. 378.......................................... $72.00-- $1 for each child, 1 present for
each child.
Highland Park No. 382.......................... 3 crocks jam, 15 qts. canned fruit, 8 qts.
jelly, 24 qts. marmalade, 47 glasses
jelly.
Mr. A. Menist, American Preserving
Company ...................,............................ 108 cans jam.
Mrs. Frederick M. Weiss, Los
Angeles ..................................,............... 3 qts. canned fruit, 4 qts. jam, 3~ lbs.
walnuts.
Bro. S. A. Simon, Highland Park
No. 382.......................................•............6 toys, 10 lbs. candy.
Bro. E. Shou'.er, West Lake No. 392.. 7~ lbs. candy.
Bro. and Mrs. W. H. Gaynor, South
Gate No. 320.......................................... l glass jelly, 3 books.
Bro. and Mrs. W. H. Stewart, Wilshire Chapter No. 329, 0 . E. S ......... l pt. blackberry butter, 4 books.
Bro. and Mrs. Henry 0 . Henderson,
Chispa Chapter No. 151, 0. E.S..•. 1 box apples and walnuts, l qt. jam. 2
aprons.
Montebello No. 451..................................6 qts. canned fruit, 3 glasses jelly.
Matrons, Patrons and Trailers 1919.... l sewing set, 1 box candy.
Fullerton No. 339.................................... 100 lbs. popcorn, 5 pts. jam, 7 qts. canned
fruit, 2 qts. jam, 4 glasses jelly, 5~ lbs.
candy, 18 lbs. wa'.nuts.
Bro. E. J . Gillette, Long Beach No.
327 ............................................................$10.00 for merit system.
Garvanza Chapter No. 266, 0 . E. S ..... l glass jelly.
Long Beach Shrine Club........................ $1.00 for each child, 90 lbs. candy.
Bro. P. F. Cogswell, El Monte ..............40~ lbs. walnuts.
University No. 394.................................. 3 thrift stamps for each child.
Bro. A. C. Drake, Lexington No. 104.. 15~ lbs. walnuts.
Mrs. Flora M. Cook, Long Beach ...... 1 box apples.
Culver City No. 467.................................. 3 qts. fruit, 1 pt. canned fruit, l qt. jam,
·
1 glass jelly.

Donor

169

Article

West Lake Chapter, 0 · E · S ................. O ne d o l'.ar to eac11 child
· •s· bank account
Bro. K. L. Sinclair, University Nn.
·
394 ............................................................. 1 mandolin.
Need:es No. 326...................................... .8 q t s. canne d f rmt,
· 1 qt. preserves. 17
qts. ja'.11, 2 pts. jelly, 36 glasses jelly,
7 pts. iam.
foillmore No. 379........................ ········ ....62 lbs. walnuts, .29 qts. canned fruit, 12
qts. jam, 1 pt. olives, 1 pt. jam, 8
glasses jelly, 5 qts. jel:y, 7 lbs. dried
apples, 3 lbs. dried apricots, clothing.

i\lhambra No. 322, San Cabriel
Valley, Chapter No. 100, Alham·
bra Commandery No 48
c ·
· ··················· hnstmas tree decorations, balls, toys
and volley ball net
Bro. Wm. Taylor, Highland Park
·
Lodge No. 382········································510 lbs· mixed cand.y, 30 lb s. gum d rops,
32 lbs. peanut brittle
E. Campbell and Matrons of 1918
·
Elvesta Chapter No. 293.................... ~ books
Clcn Chapter No. 357, 0. E. S ............... 1 book. 30 lbs home ad
d
d
,
.
-m e can y an
crystallized fruit, toys and books.
llro. F. B. Shaw...
• .
..................................... 4 qts. preserved fru"t 2 1
• l'
blwm Munsey Los A
I
.
1, gasses Je .y.
'
nge es................ 36 airplanes for bo
1.os Angeles Creamery Co..................... 10 lbs. butter.
ys.
Mr. and Mrs. C. P. ·Richardson

M

'

ass. ·············:··········.. ···························· 1 dressed doll.
Mrs. G. A. Fred1ckar, San Francisco To
d
.
·· ys an games.
Mrs. Fannie
Van Dieken, Southern
Star Chapter No. 96 0 E S
1
·
' · · ··········· qt. canned frmt I pt. jelly, 28 glasses
jelly and jam. '
C'. C. Lang, Corona Chapter No. 107,
0. E. S ............................... ~ ..................... 2 boxes apples 9 lbs almonds,
'
.
Marguerite Hilton, Los Ange'.es ..........1 book.
l~amona No. 457.............................- ....... 82 candy canes.
Oro. J. R. Jackson, Highland Park
No. 382 .................................................... 45 lbs. peanuts.
R Campbell and Matrons of 1918
Elvesta Chapter No. 293...................'. 5 Victrola records
<:harles H . Smith, Corona No. 324..... .43 rice balls, 9 pkg.s. puffed rice
''.· Fancher, Needles No. 326................ 50 lbs. candy.
·
t oronado No. 441 .................................... $3.00 for Treat f d
th"·
un ' c1o mg, toys,
games, etc,

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CAMP DONATIONS AT BALBOA

IJ011ur
Article
Bro. H. W. Skelton and Bro. Wm.
H. Rowe, South Gate No. 320.......... 39 lbs. broken candy.
Geo.]. Graves, Los Angeles.................. $5.00 for Treat fund.
Geo. T. Mastin, Los Angeles ............... $2.00 for watermelons.
Harry Carey, Universal City ................ 700 lbs. watermelons, 75 cherry flip.,;, 75
bags of peanuts.
I. Weiner, Balboa.................................... Candy.
W. C. Durgin, West Lake No. 392...... $2.00 for Treat fund.
Federal Courts.......................................... 1-8 pkgs. egg noodles.
Edith Burke, Los Angeles...................... 10 lbs. marshmallows.
Dr. P. C. Pahl, Los Angeles.................. 30 lbs. candy.
Bro. R. E. Dill, South Gate No. 320.. 0live oil, 30 doz. bathing suits.
Henry S. Orme, No. 458........................4 doz. caps.
Bro. R. L. Smith, Santa Ana ..........- ..4 lbs. ripe ligs.
Bro. A. G. Miller, Fuli<:rton Chapter
No. 191, 0 . E. S .................................-1 s.k. peanuts, Y, sk. popcorn, JO lbs.
weiners.
Bro. · Ralph Meade, Santa Ana No.
241 .............................................•.............. lY, sks. oranges.
. Bro. F. B. Comfort, University No.
394 ............................................................ 20 watermelons.
Newport Harbor Yacht Club................ Provisions from banquet.
Bro. and Mrs. W. H. Robinson,
Fullerton No. 339......................~ ........... 1 sk. oranges and lemons.
Bro. Ralph A. Chase, Sunset No. 352.. 2 lugs peaches.
Bro. and Mrs. Edwin McFacl<lin,
·Santa Ana No. 241..............................98 lbs. dried lima beans, 100 lbs. fresh
limas, 1 book.
Jack Borchert, Long Beach.................. Candy.
H . E. Knowlton, Puente........................ I box peaches and apples.
Bro. R. B. LaFontaine, Golden State
No. 358.................................................... $1.80 for Treat fund.
Nollers Bakery, Balboa..........................6Y, doz. cookies.
Santa Ana No. 241................:..:.............. 12 gals. ice cream.
Redondo No. 328......................................8 gals. ice cream,
sk. peanuts; 4 qts.

i arri. .
F. V. Keesling.........................................;.$5.00 Camp fund.
Bro. J. H. Logie, Redlan.ds No. 300.... $50.00 for pier, diving tower and spring
·
board.
Bro. D. Wilson Pierce, Grand Patron, o. E. S .........................,...............3 yrs. insurance on camp equipmen'

171

Donor
Article
Bro. Cleveland, Harbor Chapter No.
•
174 ............................................................3 boat oars.
Wilson Bros.......................................:....... Use of barge a9d bonfire wood.
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Osgcod................ Courtesies ·of picture show through
camp season.
NAM:ES OF CHILDR:EN

Girls, 34
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Location Age
Baker, Mildred L ........- ... July 7, '20 Union ...................... 58 Sacramento .. 12
Borland, Jessie G............. \fay 21, '15 Richmond ..............375 San Fr'ncisco.11
Conley, Louise ................ 'fov. 16, '16 Hollenbeck ............319 Los Angeles.. 8
Delosa, Francesca ............ ·)ec. 8, '19 Speranza Italiana..219 San Fr'ncisco. 8
Delosa, Mary .................... ")ec. 8, '19 Speranza Italiana..219 San Fr'ncisco.13
Fergµson, Esther M.........June 16, '16 Humbo'.dt .............. 79 Eureka ..........15
Fischer, Doris C...............Qct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. Relief
San Fr'ncisco.12
Fisher, Alice E ................. Mar. 8, '14 Presidio ........_.........354 San Fr'ncisco.17
Fisher, Muriel... .....:.......... Mar. 8, '14 Presidio ..................354 San Fr'ncisco. 9
Fisher, Ruth H ................. Mar. 8, '14 Presidio ..................354 San Fr'ncis~.16
Gi'. liam, Helen L·-·············Sept. 30, '19 Santa Rosa .............. 57 Santa Rosa ..:.13
Inzer, Mary Lucille .......-June 21, '19 Sunset ....................352 Los Angeles .. 13
Inzer, Ivy Myrtle ...········· June 21, '19 Sunset ....................352 Los Angeles .. 3
Keeley, Marguerite.......... J\'pr. 26, '20 Highland Park. .....38i Los Angeles ..11
King, Emma E !izahcth .. .. Nov. 21, '19 South Gate..............320 Los Angeles ..13
King, Mildred May:......... Nov. 21, '19 South Gate..............320 Los Ange!es .. 8
Mastin, Alpha Lenora .... \ug. 22, '19 East Gate................290 Los Angeles .. 6
Mastin, Margaret Irma .. 8e,1t. 14, '19 East Gate................29() Los Angeles .. 7
Pascoe, Edna........·-···········8ept. 6, '17 Amador .................. 65 Jackson .......... 12
Poole, Dorothy C......-..... Mar. 3, '18 Pasadena ................272 Pasadena ...... 6
Poole, Ruth Mary............ ~1ar. 3, '18 Pasadena ..:......... :...272 Pasadena ...... 7
Raftery, Bernice ................ May 11, '13 Mizpah ···············-···378 l,os Angeles ..12
Raftery, Martha................ I >cc. 3, '17 Mizpah .....................178 Los Angeles .. 8
Raftery, Mary................. ·· I 'ct. 3, '17 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles .. 8
Reynolds, Marie...:...........·.luly 12, '20 Live Oak.................. 61 Oakland ....:.....12
Rice, Edith W ................. \!'ov. 10, '16 Goiden Gate............ 30 San Fr'ncisco. 8
Schellpeper, Mildrecl ........ 1:eb. 22, '19 Parnassus ..............388 San Fr'ncisco. 9
Schellpeper, Regina .......... Feb. 22, '19 Parnassus ·..:...........388 San Fr'ncisco.13
Shipley, Eva V ................. Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana..............241 Santa Ana..... .12
Ship!ey, Frances W ......... Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana ............. .241 Santa Ana ...... 10
Shipley, Hazel Fern........ Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana..............241 Santa Ana ...... 8
Virgo, Alice M................. Dec. 5, '13 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles .. 13
Virgo, . Saide V ................. Dec. 5, ' 13 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles .. 12
Virgo, Winifred................ Dec. 5, '13 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles .. 10

172

PROCEEDINGS OF . THE

Boys, 36

•

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. L ocatio11 Age
Baker, Paul George..........July 7, '20 Union ....................... 58 Sacramento .. 7
Borland, John C...............May 21, '15 Richmond ..............375 San Fr'ncisco.15
Bor 1~·. nd, Robert M ........... May 21, '15 Richmond .............. 375 San Fr'ncisco.16
Dalmas, Ramon George ..June 15, '19 Fairmont ................435 San Fr'ncisco.11
Delosa, Salvatore .............. Dec. 8, '19 Speranza Italiana ..219 San Fr'ncisco.14
Delosa, Vincenzo............. Dec. 8, '19 Speranza Italiana..219 San Fr'ncisco.10
San Fr'ncisco. 8
Fischer, Douglas E ......... Oct. 14, 'i6 Masonic Bd. Relief
San Fr'ncisco. 9
Fischer, Eugene A ........... Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. Relief
Fisher, Harrison .............. Mar. 8, '14 Presidio ................ :.354 San Fr'ncisco.11
Fisher, William D ........... Apr. 10, '15 Presidio ..................354 San Fr'ncisco.14
Howard, Homer E ...........Feb. 17, '13 Oriental ..................144 San Fr'ncisco.12
Inzer, J. W. McKenzie.. June 21, '19 Sunset ....................352 Los ·Angeles ..12
Jordan, Wm . Lewis..........Feb. 27, '18 King David's..........209 S .. L. Obispo.. 12
Kee!ey, James Hugh........ Apr. 26, '20 Highland Park......382 Los Angeles ..13
King, Charles · Harry........ Dec. 21,'19 South Gate..............320 Los Angeles ..11
King, Elmer Gray.........,T)ec. 21,'19 South Gate..............320 Los Angeles ..16
Marks, Earl William...... June 2,'18 Culver City............4t>9 Culver City.... 8
Marks, Rich'd Parham ....J un~ 2,'18 Culver City............469 Culver City.... 10
Mastin, Thos. Griffith .... '\.ug. 22, '19 East Gate ................290 Los Angeles .. 4
Mastin, Chester George.. 5ept. 14, '19 East Gate................290 Los Ange'.es .. 2
Mooneyham, Wm. 0 ....... Jan. 29, '16 Upla·nd ....................419 Upland ..........13
Parrent, Arvin Mahin .... Tuly 9, '19 Golden State..........,l58 Los Angeles .. 11
Pascoe, Rich'd Hedley.... 5ept. 6, '17 Amador .................. 65 Jackson ..........10
Peterhans, Fred Noyes.. Tuly 12, '19 San Diego................ 35 San Diego......14
Peterson, Chester H ....... 5ept. 28, '17 Live Oak.................. 61 Oaklartd ........ 7
Prewett, Frederick.......... \1ar. 3, '19 Sisson .......................310 Sisson ..........:.11
Prewett, Robt. Harland .. Mar. 3, '19 Sisson ......................310 Sisson ............ 8
Prewett, Leland .......:........ Mrr. 3, '19 Sisson .........:............310 Sisson ............ 14
Raftery, Earl A. .....:...."...... Apr. 11, '13 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles ..14
Reyno'.ds, Earl Rarnond .. July 12, '20 Live Oak. ................. 61 Oakland ........ 7
Reynolds, Walter F ...•..... Jul y 12, '20 Live Oak .................. 61 Oakland ........ 9
Rice, James Peter......,..;..-. July 2, '15 Golden Gate............ 30 San Fr'ncisco.12
Schwartz, Emil P ......•...c..;J une 29, '17 West Gate..............335 Los Angeles ..11
Schwartz, Sidney.............. June 29, '17 West Gate..............335 Los Angeles .. 9
Smith, Robert.................... Nov. 7, ' 15 University ..............394 Los Angeles .. 7
Wehe, Victor ..............•....... Ani". 28, '13 Amity ...... :...............370 San Fr'ncisco.14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTURES DURING THE Y!lAR

Name
Admitted
Dcp11rletl
Dcllman, Helen Bertha.................,....................July 14, '18......,............ Sept. 12, ' 19
I )c!lman, Wilhelm A. ...................::.....................Mar. 4, '18................... Sept. 12, '19
Ferguson, Blanche B ...........................................June 16, '16.................... Sept. 14, '19
McDowell, John C.............................,........... :....:Sept. 27, '16...:................ Sept. 18, ' 19
Neustadt, Henrietta .......................:....................June 20, '14.................... Sept. 30, ' 19
N eustadt, Lawrence ............................~ ........:......June 20, '14.................... Sept. 30, '19
11 orton, Gordon Lee.............. ..........."...................J une 30, ' 19....................0ct. 11, ' 19
I lunt, Constance Aileen .......................~ ............Oct. 23, '18....................Jan. 14, '20
I lunt, Roger Earl................................................Oct. 23, '18.............,,.....Jan. 14, '20
I mus, Geraldine .................................................... May 13", '20........,........... May 21, '20
Morrell, Frederick H ......................................... Sept. 22, '19.................... May 26, '20
Morrell, Charles 0 ....:.....................:........:...........Sept. 22, '19....................May 26, '20
I lcrrington, Guinevere R. ............,.....................Aug. 11, '17......... ,.........June 19, '20
1lerrington, Lolita E ........................................... Aug. 11, 'i7....................June 19, '20
llrown, Herbert E............................................-.June · 15, '15....................June 20, '20
Pascoe, Aline A .................................................... Sept. 6, '17...................July 1• '20
Stevens, Irene........................................................Feb. 25, '10.................... Sept. 19, '20

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SURVEY
OF THE

MASONIC HOME FOR CHILDREN
AT COVINA, CALIFORNIA
BY

HAROLD K. FABER, M. D.,
AND

ARTHUR J. RITTER,

From the Department of Pediatrics of the
Stanford University Medical School
1920
The present report embodies the results of a survey of the
Masonic Home for Children at Covina, made June 24-27, 1920.
This survey included a mental and physical examination of all the
children :and a further brief study of the sanit ary conditions of
the Home and its surroundings. The report therefore deals with
the various conditions affecting the welfare of the children under
the guardianship of the Masonic fraternity at the Home in Covina.

PHYSICAL STATUS
The physical examination included, in addition to the usual
ro utine, measurements of height, weight, sitting height, nutrition,
systolic and diastolic blood pressures and pulse; a vision test with
Snellen types and a rough hearing rest with the watch. A special
examination for flat feet was also made and revealed a number
of cases of this defect. Sixty~s even examinations were made in
all, thirty-four of girls, and thirty-three of boys. Fourt~n of the
children had been, at the time of the examination, less than one
year at the Home, and . consequently had not obtained ihe full
benefits of th e Home. In general, these benefits have resulted
from a well ordered life in favorable surroundings with good food,
a sufficiency of outdoor activity and in addition the remedying
of physical defects. The nutrition of the children was found to

175

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

177

be well above the average. Cleanliness, as shown by the condition of the hair, nails and ·skin was found to be exceptionally good.
Most of the postural defects noted were slight and such as are
common to nearly all growing children who have not received
systematic gymnasium class training. Many small . denta1' cavities
were found, but only a few'_. farge '<'inks. · This accounted for by ·
the fact that school was just 'o ve; and dental a:i:tenti~n :had not
been possible for a few months. Most of the cases of torlsils . and
adenoids occurred in children who · had been only a few; months
at the Home.
'
·
·
As regards the Home itself, this was found to be clean, well
kept, sanitary and decidedly attractive, affording the children an

I ·
I

DINING ROOM, COVINA HOME

cated from one child to another. The only satisfactory solution is
the use of wash bowls which will permit washing in a stream of
running water preferably from mixing pipes for hot and cold water.
Evidence of two skin diseases which may have been transmitted
through wash bowls were found in the Home, namely impetigo
and acne. It should be pointed out that impetigo, a disease char-

RECEPTION ROOM, COVINA HOME

environment which is in practically all respects ideal. The food
was abundant, well selected and fairly well prepared. A slight
improvement might be made in the cooking of meats and in the
reduction of the amount of fried food. One or two criticisms
regarding the lavatories might be made. The towel compartments
are somewhat inadequate since they permit long bath towels in
adjoining compartments to touch. More serious is the question
of wash basins. In these the valves are now spring controlled
and it is necessary for the children to plug the bowls . and fi.ll
them with water before washing. Since it is necessary for' several
children to use the same bowl before it can be thoroughly cleaned
there is great danger of contagious skin diseases being communiSEWING ROOM, COVINA HOME

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

178

179

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LAUNDRY, COVINA HOME
BED ROOM, COVINA HOME

MENTAL STATUS
acterized by the formation of pus under the skin, is a serious danger in institutions where it sometimes spreads very rapidly and
is very difficult to eradicate once started.

PANTRY, COVINA HOME

In this year's survey there was a total of sixty-seven children,
of whom sixty-five were mentally examined, two being below test ing age, had to be excluded, but their appearance indicat ed a nor. ma! development. With the exception of th e following cases the

A PICNIC, CHILI'REN OF COVINA HOME

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

181

and it is therefore suggested that the boy receive practical training-.
Case No. 84, G. H., who was found to be a distinct mental defective in 1919, has been rem~ve~ f~qm the Home by his father.
Case No. 95, F. D., was admitted only recently to the Home.
She shows some signs of mental deficiency; it is recommended that
she be kept under observation for about one year, to study her
(11ental condition more fully.
The management must be very persistent in following the
recommendations in previous years. This is demonstrated in Case
No. 30, R. S. This boy could not be diagnosed in 1917, due to a
very marked speech motor defect. At that time hjs speech was
limited to a few words only. Due to .s pecial training his vocabulary has steadily increased, making it· possible for him to master
the second grade in 1920.

CAMP TUCKER

progress mad e during the year 1919-1920 was very creditable; the
school promotions corresponded with the mental development,
varying from average to normal superior intelligence.
Case No. 3, D. F ., who was not promoted in school also lacked
in his mental examination. He is nearing his intellectual maturity

The record of findings .being kept at the Home affords an
opportunity for frequent checking up of each indiviqual case. We
felt it advisable to incorporate in our report a few interesting
views of our children, "At Home", "At. Work", and "At Play",
the main building and the environme~t.
·
We strongly recommend the establishment of vocational training for boys and girls in the Home.
·
In conclusion one of us ·.(H. K. F.)'wishes to express his. pleasure in revisiting the Home after an · interval of three years; during
which he was in the army, and in finding that the promise of the
early days of the Home has been so well fulfilled.
We feel that the Masonic .:Fraternity has here an accomplishment of which it may be justly very proud. It has given happiness, health and the chanc~ for an unhandicapped start in i\ife to
Lhe childen of which it has acted as ward.

SNOW SCENE-CHILDREN OF COVINA HOME IN THE MOUNTAINS

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

183

BUSINESS USE OF MASONIC EMBLEMS
Past Grand Master Henderson introduced resolutions
proposing to forbid the use of Masonic emblems in business,
and they were referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence
and the Committee on General Policy and Purposes.
REPORTS OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
· The following reports from the Boards of Relief were .
presented and referred to the Committee on Finance :
San Francisco Board of Relief
Receipts .

Cash on Hand August 25, 1919..........................................................$, 4.666.,12
Refunds-California Jurisdiction ....................................$ 4,590 22 ·
Other .Jurisdictions in U. S .................._ ...... 9,997.56
901.51
Foreign Jurisdictions ...............................:......
Grand Lodge .................................................... 4,122.02
$19,611.31
Total Refunds ............................................................
Assessments-City Lodges ................................................$ 4,778.10
Interest on Bonds..................-..............................................
522.50
175.32
Interest on Deposits..............................................................
Donation from Passengers S. S. "Sonoma"....................
10.88

5,486.80

Total Cash Available..................................................

$29,764.23

Disbursements
Re!ief-California Jurisdiction ........................................$ 5,386.57
Other Jurisdictions in U. S............................... 12,122.83
Foreign Jurisdictions .......................................... 2,475.02
Unknown Lodge ..................................................
360.00
425.00
Dimitted Cases ......................................................
Total Relief ................................................................
$20,769.42
Expenses-Salaries ................_..............................................$ 3,050.00
244.00
Office Supplies ................................................
Rent ....................................................................
360.00
144.59
Telephone ..........................................................
Telegrams ........................,...............................
9.36
3,807.95
550.00
Donations to Employment Bureau ....................................

$25,127.37
Balance on Hand, August 23, 1920.,......................

$ 4,636.86

185

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Receipts and Disb~rseme~~s Classified by Jurisdiction.s
United Sta.tes
Receipts.
Arkansas ......................................................$
75.00
Colorado ....................................................... 604.50
50.00
Connecticut ............................................... .
10.00
District of Columbia ........................ :.: ... :.'
Georgia ........................................................
102.90
Illinois ..........................................................
171.58
670.00
Iowa ...................................... :..................... ..
142.85
Indiana ....................................................... .
260.00
Idaho ........................................................... .
Kansas ......................................................... , 160.85
67.50
Kentucky ....................... :........................... .
10.00
Louisiana ................................................... .
205.00
:\Iaine .............................................. ,........... ..
201.50
Massachusetts ........................................... .
117.85
Michigan ------------------··················--···--···········
25.00
Mississippi ·············--·········:·::···············--·····
180.00
Missouri ..................................................... .
110.00
Montana ......................................... ~·........... .
713.31
Nevada ....................................................... .
25.00
New Jersey ............................................... .
80.00
New Mexico ............................................. .
New York ................................................. . 1,061.03
North Dakota ....................... :....................
30.00
Ohio ..............................................................
285.35
25.00
Oklahoma
Oregon ...................................................... . 1,138.05
25.00
Phi:ippine Islands ................................... .
South Carolina ......................................... .
South Dakota ......... :..................... :........... . 1,103.90
Tenn-essee ................................................... .
45.00
Texas ............................. ,:.: .. :....................... .
45.30
Utah ............................................................. .
l('().00
Vermont
122.85
Virginia ..................................................... .
Washington ··········-····························''······· 1,841.54
20.00
Wisconsin ................................................... .
171.70
Wyoming ,.................................................. .

Disbursements.
$ 240.00
906.00
50.00
10.00
264.90
158.50
761.34
232.85
240.00
233.70
67.50
10.00
955.15
201.50
75.00
180.00
160.00
1,078.31
25.00
80.00
1,405.60
60.00
162.65
25.00
650.41
75.00
5.00
1,103.90
161.00.
85.72
399.98
122.85
1,729.37
34.90
171.70

Total ...................................,•...............$ 9,997.56
California ..............................•..................... 4,590.22

$12,122.83
5,386.57

Total U. S ......................,....................$14,587.78

$17,509.40

Foreign
Receipts.
Alberta ........................................................$
10.00
Canada ..... .'....................................................
172.83
England ..................................................... .
Ireland ....................................................... .
Manitoqa ..................................................... .
New Brunswick ....................................... .
N cw South Wales ..........................•......... .-.
20.00
Quebec ....................................................... .
676.18
Scotland ..................................................... .
22.50

Disbursements.
$
11.05
187.69
42.60
239.20
25.00
422.40
1,085.38
461.70

Total ....................................................$ 901.51
$ 2,475.02
Dimitted Cases .............................................................................................-.$425.00
Lodge Unknown ·······························--····················································-··· 360.00

Assessments Received From Lodfie.s Constituting the Board
1 California ......·........................................ ::.;.:.:.... :, ...........................;..$ 221.65
17 La Parfaite Union ................................;........................................ .
64.90
22 Occidental .............................................. :...... :................................... . 236.80
30 Golden Gate ..................................................................................... . 216.35
44 Mount Moriah ............................................................................... . 154.50
120 Fidelity ............................................................................................. . 206.75
127 Hermann ........................................................................................... .
73.45
136 Pacific ········································~····- ............................................... .. 253.10
139 Crockett ....................................................·.·....................................... 196.05
144 Oriental ............................................................................................. . 139.90
166 Excelsior ......................................... :.. :... .-.......................................... . 178.80
169 Mission ............................................................................................. . 319.35
212 South San Francisco.............................. ;..........:.......................·..... .
78.10
216 Doric ................................................................................................. . 192.75
219 Speranza Italiana ......................................................................... .
90.50
226 San Mateo ........................................................................................
57.40
260 King So'.omon's ..................... :..................... :............... ::.~ ...'........... . 241.40
344 Starr King ...................................................................................... .. 125.70
354 Presidio ................................................................. :........................... . 135.95
360 San Francisco ................................................................................. . 113.75
370 Amity ............................................................................................... . 146.05
374 Jewel ................................................................................................. .
40.85
375 Richmond ................................................................................. :...... .. 164.45
388 Parnassus ......................................................................................... . 137.20
393 Balder .................................................................................... :.......... . 129.25
400 Burlingame ....................................................................................... .
81.20
435 Fairmount ......................................................................................... . 162.60
449 Park ......... _. ........................................................................................ . 114.35
453 Bethlehem .......................................................................................... .
74.15

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

187

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

454
455
461
462
464
470
474

Crocker ............. .................................................................................
Golden West .....................................................................................
Argonaut ......................:..........................................................:........
Paul Revere ......................................................................................
Alta Vista ........................................................................................
Lincoln ..............................................................................................
Victory ...........................................................,..................................

33.80
108.10
57.95
135.10
40.85
39.30
15.75

Total ····························'····································································-$4,778.10
Funerals
During the year the fo11owing have been buried or their remains
shipped according to the wishes of the families :

1919
Sept, 2 Ra)'.mond Burdick............_Haileyville No. 245 .......... Haileyville, Okla.
8 Leon Strauss...................._Pendleton No. 52.............. Pendleton, Ore.
9 Thomas Reynolds .............. West Gate No. 128.......... Seattle, Wash.
12 Ivor Edward Jones............ Naval No. 87.................... Vallejo, Cal.
18 Ralph Ernest Taylor........Gateway No. 150.............. Dallas, S. D.
Oct. 1 John Julius Belser............ Honolulu No. 409............ Honolulu, T. H.
4 William M. Hodgkins...._Corinthian No. 9................ Marysville, Cal.
13 Montgomery J. Canning.• Hawthorne No. 111.......... Portland; Ore.
28 Ethelbert Milburn............Andrew Jackson No. 120 Alexandria, Va.
31 Dexter Shoudy..............__Oriental No. 74................ Spokane, Wash.
Nov. 5 Floyd E. Davies..............-Los Angeles No. 42........Los Angeles, Cal.
7 Edward D. Powell.......•....Atlantic No. 81.................. Portland, Me.
13 Albert Ernest Gregory....Telluride No. 56................ Telluride, Colo.
20 Mrs. Evelyn Townsend ....Tonopah No. 28................ Tonopah, Nev.
26 Gano Winter Coleman...... Honolulu No. 400............ Honolulu, T. H.
28 Daniel W. Henke.............. Paramuthia No. 25 ..........Athens, 0.
29 Julius Martin .................... Meridian No. 182............ Arbuckle, Cal.
Dec. 1 Gustave A. Fudicker........ Arcturus No. 274.......:...... New York, N. Y.
5 Solomon Benas..................East Belt No. 391............Tuolumne, Cal.
19 James Gunn........................Maui No. 472....................Honolulu, T. H.
20 Grover Smith Patterson.. San Joaquin No. 19.......... Stockton, Cal.
23 Daniel Hyman....................Tehama No. 3.................... Sacrament9, Cal.
29 John William Hirst..........Orient No. 339..................Toronto, Can.
1920
Jan. 10 George D. Leslie.............. Pentalpha No. 23.............. Washington, D. C.
22 Clarence R. Martin.."........Covina No. 334.................. Covina, Cal.
24 John Simpson Doolittle.. St. John's No. 4................ Hartford,Conn.
26 Broughton Buzzo.............. Natoma No. 64................Folsom, Cal.
27 George P . Sackwitz.......... Polar Star No. 79............ St. Louis, Mo.
29 John Hein ..........................Fairfield No. 142.............. Fairfield, Wash.
Feb. 2 Claude E. Nichols............ Holden No. 262.................. Holden, Mo.

2 Ian Angus MacFarlane Roseville No. 222.............. Roseville, Cal.
2 Sarah Alloise Watkins....Social No. 86......................Terre Haute, Ind.
4 Chas. P. Jennings..............Wasatch No. !.................. Salt Lake City, Utah
10 Charles Muller..............-..Weston No. 22..................Littleton, Colo.
11 Simeon Bishop..................-Reno No. 13.....................•Reno, Nev.
13 Harold Gutstadt ..............~Ben Hur No. 818.............. Chicago, Ill.
18 William B. R. Evans .......•Nebraska No. ! ................Omaha, Neb.
27 Edward L. Ritson .............. Magnolia No. 20..............Columbus, 0.
28 William Barker Palmer.... Solano No. 229.................. Vallejo, Cal.
Mar. 11 Frank Anderson................ Renton No. 29.................... Port Blakely Wash.
12 F rank M. Luce................_Edmonton No. 7................Edmonton, Alberta
'
16 Clarence E. Curtis............ Sotoyome No. 123............ Healdsburg, Cal.
24 Eugene C. Shaver............ Pajaro No. 110.................. Watsonville,Cal.
27 Henry Witte ...................... Benicia No. 5.................... Benicia, Cal.
28 Lempuel Thomas Lewis., Henry Clay No. 95 .......... Sutter Creek, Cal.
:\pr. 12 William Patterson............Massachusetts ..................Boston, Mass.
25 Marcus Eldodt.................... Montezuma No. !..............Santa Fe, N. M.
May I J:imes D. Harris.............._Atlanta No. 59.................. Atlanta, Ga.
9 James W. Juengling.......... Iris No. 229........................Cleveland, O.
16 Samuel Julius Mitchell....Schiller No. 4L ................ Denver, Colo.
19 Walter John Nicho'.s........ Pittsburg No. 429.............. Pittsburg, Cal.
27 Samuel Black Winram....Marine ·..............................•. Falmouth, Mass.
June 3 Friend D. Quereau ............Occidental No. 163.......... St. Louis, Mo
8 James Hewitt....................•. San Jose No. 10................ San Jose, Cal:
9 Charles O. Bruggeman.... Benevolent No. 45 ............ Patterson, N. J.
18 Mrs. Charlotte Forcade .... Kansas City No. 220...... l(ansas City, Mo.
23 Mrs. W. C. McGuire........ Montrose No. 63................ Montrose, Colo.
24 Ga~d.ner A. Cl~rk..............Conste!lation No. 95 ........ Fredonia, Kan.
July 26 Wilham F. Heilbron........ Hawaiian No. 21.............. Honolulu, T. H.
30 Harry M~ye~s.................... R~dwood City No. 168.... Redwood City, Cal.
31 Andrew Bmnte ................ K1lsyth St. John No. 39 Kilsyth, Scotland
Aug. 13 Thomas Dougall................Corinthian No. 9.............. Marysville, Cal.
Total; 62.

Feb.

OWEN L. GIBSON', Chairman.
Uo BRUCK, Secretary.

Report of the Masonic Employment Bureau of San Francisco, Cal.
To~al applications filed during the. year ............................
Total positions st!cured....,..,........... ,.....................................:..
Applications withdrawn ..........................................................
Applications on file-male, 72; ·female, 18........................

1,701
1,594
17
90

188

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOUNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Male
Applications 'filed .:................................. ~ ...................................
.Applications withdrawn ..........................................................
Applications on file ·-·······························································
Positions secured ·······'·······'······················································
Female
Applications filed ......................................................................
Applications withdrawn .:...........................................................
Applications on file ..................................................................
Positions secured ........................................................................

. Los Angeles Board of Relief

1,419
11

72

1,336
282
6

18
258

$1,959.05
1,594
$1.23

Total expense for the year ....................................................
Total positions secured .........:..................................................
Average cost per position se·c ured..........................................
Receipts

Balance on hand September 1, 1919....................................................$ 115.14
California Commandery No. l, K. T .................................$145.00
Golden Gate Commandery No. 16, K. T ......................... 120.00
San Franci~~o. Comrnandery No. 41, K. T....................... 72.50
San Fr~ncl~co Chapter No. 1, R. A. M ........................... 150.00
California Chapter No. 5, R. A. M .................:................... 145.00
Mission Chapter No. 79, R. A. M ........................... - .......... 145.00
San Francisco B.odies No. 1, A. & A. S. R ..................... 160.00
Californ.ia Bodies No. 10, A. & A. S. R..................,,..... 170.00
Islam · Temple, A. A. 0 . N. M. Shrine.......................... 280.00
San Francisco Pyramid No. 1, A. E. 0 . Sciots.............. 90.00
Board ~f Relief of San Francisco................................:....... 550.00 ·

2,027.50

Total . Cash Available.............:....:.....................................................$2,142.64
Disbursemen ts

··~:~;i~-~-~.: :::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::: : : : : :::: : ::::::::::::: :: : : : : : : : : :$1,~~:~
40.75
Printing ....................................................................................
Telephone, etc. ......................................................................
Carfare, stationery and postage........................................

189

150.00
58.30
1,959.05

, Balance on hand August 31, 1920.................................:..............$ 183.59
Fraternal:y submitted,
CHAS. H. S. PRATT, President.
GEORGF. S. BAUM, Secretarj•.

Our Annual Appeal
Don't send your invalids to California unless they have suffic ient means to maintain themselves, or your Lodge is able and
willing to support them.
By sending them without sufficient means, you wrong your
invalid brother and practice an imposition upon the Craft in
California.
Remember-it is just as expensive to live here as anywhere,
and burial expenses are higher.
Rem.ember-a sick man can't get by the Examining Physician
fo r the larger corporations, and it is of no use to try.
I herewith present a compact statement of the work performed since September 1, 1919:
More than 536 investigations.
More "than 307 telegrams.
More than 10,641 letters sent out.
And arranged fo r the disposition of 134 deaths, besides other
miscellaneous matters attended to on the spot in the office.
Deaths
During the year ending August 31, 1920, the following 134
Masons or members of their families have passed to their final
reward, and their re mains have been given burial with Masonic
honors, or shipped according to the wishes of the families, viz.:

1919
Sept. 8, John Kerr, Tongue Rover, 22, Cavalier, N . Dak.
10, Dr. J. Wilson Cormany, Cyrus, 188, Mt. Carroll, Ill.
12, A. T en nan t Gray, Detroit, 2, Detroit, Mich.
3, Hiram V. B. Gibson, Tekamah, 31, Tekamah, Neb.
20, Mrs. Elfreda C. Johnsort, Meridian, 136, Zellah, Wash.
23, Alfred D. Blake, Walla Walla, 7, Walla Walla, Wash.
24, Harry D . Burns, P acific, 136, San Fran cisco, Cal.
25, W illiam R. Clark, Oriental, 240, Detroit, Mich.
30, Frank Upman, Hesperia, 411 , Chicago, Ill.
Oct. 2, Dr. Wm. F . Graves, Hesperia, 411, Chicago, Ill.
4, J ..Finley Johnson, P lattsmouth, 6, Plattsmouth, Neb.
9, Ha rris Woods, ·Malta, 17, Thermopolis, Wyo.
10, Jas. Henderson, Acacia, 22, Vancouver, B. C.
13, Albert C. Horne, King Solomon, 260, San Francisco, Cal.
18, Norman L. Griswold, Northville, 186, Northville, Mich.
19, Max J. Herr, Vegas, 32, Las Vegas, Nev.
30, W illiam E. Snart, Rock River, 612, Sterling, Ill.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

190

Jan.

Nov.

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

4, William H. Jay, Windsor, 422, Windsor, N. Y.
5, Mathew S. Sharp, Elko, 15, Elko, Nev.
12, Otto Doerr, Keith, 187, Gilroy, Cal.
12, Harry C. Halfpenny, La Belle Vallee, 232, Jersey Shore,
Penn.
" 12, Hubert H . Wilkins, Needles, 326, Needles, Cal.
9, Carl W. Selk, Adelphi, 63, New Haven, Conn.
15, Wheeler D. Rowland, Plankinton, 61, Plankinton, S. Dak.
19, Benjamin Pepherick (Demitted), Denver, 5, Denver, Colo.
" 27, David Goldberg, Libertas, 466, Bakersfield, Cal.
29, Thomas J. Wilson, Mt. Pisgah, 96, Cripple Creek, Colo.
"
30, James Albert Merigold, Winona, 18, Winona, Minn.
Dec. 2, Walter S. Jones, Franklin, 7, Buckhannon, W. Va.
4, Frank H. Zeibach, St. John, 1, Yankton, So. Dak.
4, David J. Clements, Aztlan, 1, Prescott, Ariz.
8, George W. Warren, Williamston, 153, Williamston, Mich.
12, Herman Buchler, Covenant, 526, Chicago, Ill.
12, J . J. Worcester, Pendleton, 52, Pendleton, Ore:
13, William M. Kinniburgh, Howard, 69, Mobile, Ala.
13, Frank Baird, Garden City, 141, Chicago, · 111.
15, John B. · Curl, Austin, 12, Austin, Tex,
17, Mrs. May Swanson, Oklahoma City, 36, Oklahoma City,
. Okla.
22, John S. Clapp, Mt. Moriah, 24, Butte, Mont,
24, E . Sidney Phelps, Polar Star, 245, New York City, N. Y.
25, Christopher D. Hemming, Western Star, 2, Little Rock.
.
Ark.
26, Willis A. Shaw, Kearsarge, 81, Andover, N. H.
28, Henry Schafer, Oriental, 224, Utica, N. Y.
1920
Jan. 2, Robert A. Perry, Mattesbn, 175, Joliet, Ill.
4, Jerome W. Twidell,° Cedar, 103, Chanute, Kan.
8, Uberto A. Partridge, Fortune, 788, North Collins, N. Y.
10, Henry M. Good, Boise, 2, Boise, Ida.
11, Theodore M. Anderson, Minneapolis, 19, Minneapolis,
Minn.
11, .Byron C. Majors, Peninsular, 95, Everett, Wash.
14, Robert E. Leech, Bluff City, 71, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
13, James Denny, Tweed, 113, ~randon, Manitoba.
15, Jesse H. Willson, Coalinga, 387, Coalinga, Cal.
20, John B. Carpenter, Aurora, 267, St. Louis, Mo.
21, George Allgewahr, Tuolumne, 8, Sonora°, Cal.
21, William Raymond Thomas, Vegas, 32, Las Vegas, NeY.
25, Newton M. Hiestand, Mount Lamborn, 102 Hotchkiss,
Colo.
J ~. .~I

29, William H. Miller, Uintah, 7, Park City, Utah.
29, William G. Clemmons, Ashlar, 91, Detroit, Mich.
29, Seth Macy, Pioneer, 22, Des Moines, Iowa.
Feby. 2, Frank J . Connors, Marion, 6, Marion, Iowa.
4, Charles K. Book, Mount Moriah, 145, Jamestown, N. Y.
5, Benjamin T. Heywood, Acacia, 17, Salt Lake, Utah.
9, Arthur J. Kearney, Geneva, 139, Geneva, Ill.
9, E ( H. Moffitt, Shoshone, 25, Wallace, Idaho,
9, Jacob L. Isaacs, Palestine, 204, New York City, N. Y.
"
11, Frank M. Gragg, Gibson, 733, Gibson City, Ill.
11, James Caris, Monmouth, 37, Monmouth, Ill.
14, Rasmus Miller, Mohall, 73, Mohall, N. Dak.
19, William H. Upton, Redondo, 328, Redondo, Cal.
21, Louis A. Henrich, Perris, 411, Perris, Cal.
22, Solon E . Lee, Mystic Tie, 398, Indianapolis, Ind.
23, Melvin J . Smith, Tacoma, 22, Tas;oma, Wash.
23, Marx C. Parrott, Sioux, 477, .Ireton, Iowa.
23, Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hopper, Trimble, 117, Camden, N. J .
24, Roy L. McJunkin, Hesperian, 264, Santa Maria, Cal.
26, Janet Marie Ashton, Damascus, 888, Chicago, Ill.
26, Edward Parker, Prairie, 556, Gilman City, Mo.
28, John Jurgens, West Gate, 128, Seattle, Wash.
Mch. 1, J. H. Jackson, Butte, 22, Butte, Mont.
4, Johri C. ·Dewey, Arcana, 195, Gordon, Neb.
5, John H . Miner, Woodlawn, 211, Binghampton, Tenn.
8, Harry .A. Armstrong, Union Park, 610, Chicago, Ill.
12, August Brodine, Telluride, 56, Telluride, Colo.
14, Alex. S. Eichner, Chicago, 437, Chicago, Ill.
23, Harry C. Doalde (Mack), Pacific, 233, New York City,
N. Y.
30, Edwin W. Hively, Salida, 57, Salida, Colo.
31, Delbert Tuller, Landmark, 422, Chicago, Ill.
Apr. 2, A. Jackson Tibbs, DeWitt, 84, Clinton, Ill.
8, John D. Thompson, Crystal, 122, Marysville, Wash.
9, Alfred J. Michell, Palestine, 31, Palestine, Tex.
"
17, George B. Vinsonhaler, ' Western Star, 2, Little Rock, Ark.
19, Fred A. Davis, Hiawatha, 434, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
21, Frederick H. Niemeyer, Kensington, 804, Chicago, Ill.
23, Joseph D. Hendershott, Nevada, 4, Bald' Mountain, Colo.
24, Frank W. Cadwell, Spokane, 34, Spokane, Wash.
26, Louis Davis, Perfect Ashlar, 604, New York City, N. Y.
May 4, Adolph C. Hofenfeld, Weston, 22, Littleton, Colo.
7, Geo~ge H. Leland (Demitted), Redlands, 300, Redlands,
Cal.

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8, Margaret A. Downham, Peterborough, 155, Peterborough,
Canada.
8, Andrew E. Johnson, Constantine, 13, Bonham, Tex.
11, Henry W. Watkins, Doric, 216, San Francisco, Cal.
12, Harry 0. Williams, Pittsburg, 187, Pittsburg, Kan.
19, Chas. A. Cartwright, Wichita, 99, Wichita, Kan.
19, John H . Wussow, La Fayette, 265, Milwaukee, Wis.
21, George W. Miller, 1Harmony, 6, Galveston, Tex.
23, J ohn E. Hutchings, Kilburn, 3, Milwaukee, Wis.
28; James H. Logan, Mesa, 55, Grand Junction, Colo.
27, Rev. Thos. Lloyd, King Solomon, 346, 1 Connellsville, Pa.
June 3, James Leach, Home, 342, Fort Wayne, Ind.
5, Perez Fragner, Union, 334, Bradford, Pa.
5, Camm T. r Morris, Tuscola, 352, Tuscola, Ill.
7, Daniel R. Ormsby. Hamilton, 120, Hamilton, N. Y.
7, Laura Davis, Pueblo, 31, Pueblo, Colo.
12, William C. Evans, Alhambra, 322, Alhambra, 1 Cal.
15, Wirliam D . Matthe, Morehouse, 603, Morehouse. Mo.
16, William L. Anderson, Libertyville, 492, Libertyville, Ill.
16, J oseph J. Wright, Doric, 87, Wells,1Minn .
17, Dura M. Richards, Blythe, 473, Blythe, Cal.
19, C. W. Snyder, Medford, 103, Medford, O regon.
24, George 1K. Patterson, Parian, 321, Harlan, Iowa.
26, Zacariah T. Seymour, Highland, 86, Denv.er, Colo.
26, Albert Lee Hale, Equity, 878, Chicago, Ill.
July 3, Halford M. P ostle, Mt. Janeau, 147, Junea u, Alaska.
4, Harry B. Shannon, Temple, 84, Denver, Colo.
JS, Alfred Brown, Palestine, 241, St. Charles, Mo.
15, Cecil .J. Barker, Mt. Moriah, 19, Dougla.s, Arizona.
20, Archibald McKenzie (Demitted), Creston, 15, La Colo
rado, Mexico.
·
23, Samuel F. Denison, Verde, 14, Jerome, Arizona.
24, Harry Smith, Redondo, ,328, Redondo, Cal.
Aug. 9, J. Watson Meyers, Ritzville, 101, .Ritzville, Wash.
14, John F. Macart, Chebanse, 429, Chebanse, Ill.
14, J . W. Henerman, Corinthian, 265, Warrensburg, Mo.
15, Spencer W. Clawson, Perfect Ashlar, 12, Bisbee, Ariz.
Aug. 22, Sarah E. McKim, Detroit, 2, Detroit, Mich.
May

"'

Detailed Stateme11t of Receipts and Disbursements
Paid
Received
Alabama ...... ,..................,.......----------·----------······-----:...$ 100.00 $ 100.00
Alas' a ....... ............................ .............................................
175.00
170.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALuroRNIA

Arkansas ............................................................................
155.00
Arizona .........................................................................
170.00
Bermuda ......................................................................
20.00
California ..........'.......................................................... 1,432.12
Canada --:··---·--····-------·---------···-.--············--·----········--·--··-632.50
Colorado .................................:....................................
666.96
Connecticut ................................................................
5.00
District of Columbia..................................................
105.00
England ........................................................................
30.00
Georgia ........................................................................
5.00
Germany ......................................................................
5.00
Hawaii ..........................................................................
55.00
Idaho ............................................................................
37 .00
Illinois .......................................................................... 1,185.46
Indiana ........................................................................
163.00
Iowa ...................,.......................................................... 1,068.75
Ireland ..........................................................................
5.00
Kansas ...............,..........................................................
75.00
Kentucky ..................................................................·..
243.00
Louisiana ..............., ...................................................,.
10.00
Maine ............,...........:...................................................
10.00
Manitoba ....................................................................
15.00
Maryland ....................................................................................
Massachusetts ............................................................
179.15
Mexico ..........................................................................
60.00
Michigan ...................................................................... 1,048.83
Minnesota ........................,....................,.....,................
529.50
Mississippi ..................................................................
10.00
Missouri ......................................................................
305.00
Montana ............,.........................................................
573.63
Nebraska ....................................................................
165.00
New Brunswick .........................................................
5.00
New Hampshire ........................................................
65.00
New Jersey· ................................................................
341.10
New Mexico ..............................................................
331.70
New York ...............................................................
1,027.10
New Zealand ..............................................................
20.00
Nor th Carolina............................................................
14.50
Ohio ....................... ~............................................. .. .......
366.18
Oklahoma .....................................................................
277.37
Oregon ........................................................................
120.75
Pennsylvania ..............................................................
242.00
Philippine Islands......................................................
40.00
Porto Rico .......................................,............................
10.00
Rhode Island .............................................................. ·
50.00

193
25.00
210.00
1,747.74
640.00
633.46
100.00

10.00
1,064.06
150.00
1,415.00
10.00
110.00

10.oO
15.00
5.00
181.65
·35.00
766.83
730.78
5.00
369.25
558.63
145.00
65.00
222.10
331.70
865.10

405.00
258.37
121.30
247.00
35.00

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Scotland ...........................................................
South Dakota..............................................................
Tennessee ....................................................................
Texas ............................................................................
Utah ..............................................................................
Virginia ........................................................................
Washington ................................................................
West Indies ................................................................
West Virginia ............................................................
Wisconsin ....................................................................

40.00
35.00
55.88
251.95
62.00
55.00
390.75
74.00
Z0.00

195

Los Angeles Employment Bureau
35.00
45.88
464.00
50.00
285.75
10.00
74.00 .
20.00

Applications
Men and boys................................................................................ 862
Women and girls .......................................................................... 187
Total applications for year ..............................................
Class "A" local members or dependents............................ 199

1,049

Positions Secured and Filled
Men and boys......................,...............................- ........................ 1,1.()6
Women and girls.......................................................................... 230

$13,135.18 · $12,742.60

R ecapitulatio1i
Receipts
Balance; September 1, 1919....................................$ 1,612.14
From Grand Lodge.................................................... 6,000.00
Warrants Cancelled ..................................................
100.00
Interest ........................................................................
72.58
Classified by Jurisdictions ...................................... 12,742.60
Total ..........................................................................................$20,527.32
Disbursements
Telegraphing ..............................................................$ 414.39
Drugs and Medicines................................................
204.02
Christmas Dinners, etc., General Christmas
Charities ..............................................................
962.50
Employment Bureau................................................ 1,200.00
100 graves at $19.00.................................................... 1,900.00
Classified by Jurisdictions................................:..... 13,135.18
Total ...:.............................................................•........................$17,816.09
Balance, September 1, 1920..................................................$ 2,711.23
All of which is respectfully submitted.
]OHN W. KEMP, President.
]. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.

Total positions filled .......:....................................................
Tempo rary jobs filled during the year lasting from one
day to three weeks, not classe d as positions................ 225
Total for year ............................................ ,...........................

1,336

1,561

Ten applications cancelled during the year, for failure to repo rt
fo r duty, for inattention to duty, insubordination and failure to
make good.
Through the able management of Brother Fred Purdy, we are
pleased t o report one of the most successful years of our particular branch of Masonic endeavor. We feel that the Employment
Bureau is now on a basis where it can actually carry out and
perfect the purpose for V.:hich it was organized. More . and more
members of our Fraternity are corning to know and under stand
the workings of this Bureau, and by this knowledge they are
benefiting us, their deserving brother, and themselves.
For all this aid from whatever source we are sincerely grateful,
and we hope that those who have helped to make the report
this year so encouraging will continue to do so in the future. And
we hope, too, that the employer who has not assisted us in the
placing of our applicants in the past, will not ·forget to call upon
us and give us a chance to make good. And this, with alh our
might, we will strive · to do.
And, after all, the only practical help that one man may give
to another is by placing him in a position to help himself. T he
handing out of a paltry dollar may tide over the needs of an hour,
but that is all. It is not the truest charity, nor, in fact, is it vhat
the man himself usually desires. What he really wa nts is a job,
a chance to work, establish himself, and thereby better his condition. This is the work that the Masonic Employment Bureau is
doing. Will you not give your support?
All of 'which is respectfully submitted.
DR. S. E. BURKE, President.
]. M. DUNSMOOR, S ecretary.

196

San Diego Employm ent Bur eau

San Diego Board of Relief

L odges of · L odges of L odges of
S an Die.go C aiifo.rnia Other Juris. , Tqtal
,. .. 11.,124
W ork ,offered .......................... 184 ·
293
727
. ' 1,002
698
W ork accepted ...................... 149
155
, I
288
110
Odd jobs, few days at time 91
98
169
Work lasting.2 to 4 weeks.. 148
161
" 478
236
95
Permanent po sitions............ 78
65

Receipts ·

September 1, Balance on Hand ..............................$ 905.77
F rom Local Lodges ................................................ 1,377.14
1 , ~00.00
F rom Grand Lodge ·······:··········································
31.34
From Interest .····························································
680.37
. Refunded by California Mason.s ..........................
Refunded by Lodges in U. S ................................. 3,514.88
175.00
Refunded by Grand Lodge ....................................
Refunded by Individual Masons.......................... 2,241.57
Refunded for Funerals Advanced ..............,......... 1,247.60
Refunded for Widows and Orphans.................. 1,926.51
39.00
Refunded for Phone Expense ................................
28.00
.Refunded for Incidental Expense ........................

0

•

Now that the F ederal Employ.ment Bureau is closed the exservice men use our facilitie s for s'e curing work to a very considerable extent. Young men abhor the word "charity'. ' a~d w'eicome
the opportunity . for ,employment. Through the co-operation of
the Board of Relief, the physical and mental conditio n
an
applicant is looked after and every effo rt made to see o ne "be fit."
A large proport.i on of wo rk -!!ecured comes from ' empioyers
who are not members of the Craft, on the basis o f efficiency.
This Bu: eau is growing and is an , economic necessity, saving tpe
Lodges m actual dollars, and the men are developing self respect
·· ·
and manhood.
R eceipts
Al Bahr Temple, San D iego.~.......,..................................$ 70.00
A. & A. S. R. Rite, San Diego .........................,................ 240.00
S. D. K. T. No. 25, San Diego ............................:.: ..:........ 45.00
S. B.. R. A. M. No. 61 , San Diego.................................... 70.00
M. B. Relief, San Diego ...............,................ .'......:...........: 146.70
$571.70
Disbursements
Salary ............ :........................., .............................................$550.00
Phone ...................................................................................... 6.40
Telegraph .............................................................................. 5.1 5

of

$13,666.18

Dis bursemen ts

Advanced t o Masons in California......................$ 850.12
Advanced t o Masons in other Jurisdictions.... 3,545.10
Advanced to Masons in Foreign Jurisdictions 1,340.00
Advanced to Masons Individually........................
908.69
Advanced for Funerals of Masons...................... 2,133.31
Advanced to Masons in Donation Employment
154.10
Advanced ·to Masons in Charity............................
611.00
Advanced to Masons' Widows and Orphans.. 1,245.07
$10,777.39
Expense

Salary of Se cretary~ ...........................:.....$950.00
Telephone and Telegraph...................... 79.75
Postage and Carfare .....................:.......... 8.70
Printing and Stationery.......................... 44.15
Incidental minor expenses.................... 75.00

197

GRA N D LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS O F THE

Carfare

........... ~ . : .......................................:...................... ~ ....

u

Postage ........................................................................:'.....~...
Stationery ..............................................................................

3.80

4.20
2..15
$571.70

$ l,157.60
R. W.; :'BH.rirNc'.' Presiden t . .

$11 ,934.99
Balance on' H and and Bank.......................... 1,732.19

C. WoODM~o\N PO.TT£R, Secr~iary.
$13,667.18

R. W. B£LDJNG, President . •
C. WooDMAN PoTTl\R, Secretary.
, ?, I

199

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oakland Board of Relief
Receipts

Refunded by Lodges in Californi?--········-,·-········--·$1,163.68
Refunded by other U. S. Jurisdictions ................ 3,098.58
Refunded by Foreign Jurisdictions ......................
84.63
Refunded by .Individuals .......................................... 1,030.30
Grand Lodge a/c Sundry Jurisdictions................ 646.79
Interest from Bank....................................................
40.03

$ 6,064.01

From Live Oak Lodge No. 61................$419.68
From Oakland Lodge No. 188................ 355.98
From Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 .............. 241.96
From Alcatraz Lodge No. 244................ 233.48
From Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.............. 225.00
From Sequoia Lodge No. 349................ 341.18
From Bay View Lodge No. 401............ 137.96
From Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403 ........ 141.44
From Standard Lodge No. 440.............. 84.91
From Rockridge Lodge No. 468............ 58.96
From Fellowship Lodge U. D............... 5.40
Total from contributing Lodges ...........;............................ 2,245.95
Total receipts ..............................................:...............'......$ 8,309.96
Balance on' hand September 1, 1919.......................................... 2,816.49
Total receipts and balance ....................................................$11,126.45
Disbursements

For California Lodges ..............................................$1,653.52
For other U . S. Jurisdictions .................................. 3,766.62
For Foreign Jurisdictions ........................................ 199.27
Total relief :...........................................................$5,619.41
Rents, salaries and incidentals ............$1,665.00
Telegraph ·and telephone........................
74.24
Stationery, printing and postage........
90.03
Restoring Secretary's car...................... 631.25 2,469.52

.
Total disbursements ..........................................$8,079;93

R eceipts and Disbursements by Jurisdictions
Receiv ed
R eceived From
To tal
United States
Individuals Lodges
Alaska .................................... .......... $
5.00 $
5.00
225.00
Arizona ..................................$100.00
125.00
35.00
Colorado ..............................
35.00
District Columbia.............:..
107.00
Georgia ..................................
Idaho .................................... 25.00 315.00
290.00
140.75
175.53
Illinois .................................. 34.58
Indiana ..................................
72.00
72.00
Iowa ......................................
3.00
3.00
Kansas .................................. 92.50
144.58
52.08
Kentucky .............................. 32.27
132.27
100.00
218.00
Massachusetts .................... 68.75
149.25
Maryland .............................. 21 .30
21.30
Michigan .............................. 15.00
108.80
93.80
Minnesota .... :....................... 15.00
789.00
774.00
Missouri ................................ 17.00
30.00
47.00
Montana ................................ 30.00
30.00
144.90
Nevada .................................. 40.00
184.90
New Jersey ..........................
3.00
3.00
New York.............................. 35.00
406.54
371.54
Ohio ......................................
.10.00
10.00
Oklahoma ............................
115.00
115.00
Oregon .................................. 35.00
383.16
348.16
Pennsylvania ...................... 10.00
10.qo
South Dakota ......................
10.00
10.00
Texas .................................... 5.00
5.00
Territory Hawaii................
25.00
25.00
Utah ......................................
Washington
75.00
94.10
169.10

Disbursem ents

$ 223.00
10.00
100.70
290.00
187.33
77.00
2.00
131.68
130.67
225.25
20.00
241.50
827.00
46.00
30.00
141.90
2.00
362.93
9.00
112.00
449.66
10.00
10.00
5.00
22.00
15.00
85.00

$ 90.00
Brought forward .................. 561.40

$ 129.10
2,969.48

$ 219.10
3,602.98

$ 147.00
3,619.62

T otal ..............................$651.40
320.00
Califo rn ia

$3,098.58
1,163.68

$3,749.98
1,483.68

$3,766.62
1,653.52

Total u. s.......... .........$971.40
Foreign
Cartada ..................................$ 25.00
China ····························-······· 5.00
Scotland ·······················-········ 28.90

$4,262.26

$5,233.66

$5,420.14

$

Total F oreign ..............$ 58.90

$

• OOOO O O O OOOO OO H H OO o 0 0 0 . 0 0 0

67.29

92.29
5.00

17.34

46.24

75.77
5.00
116.50

84.63

$ 143.53

$ 199.27

$

$

Balance on hand.................................................. 3,046.52 $11,126.45

Funerals
. During the year ending August 31, 1920, the following named
Mason·s, or members of their families; ·have been given Masonic
burial, or shipped in accordance with the wishes of the families:

1919
Sept. 1 David. Fried, St; Helena No. 93, St. Helena, Calif..
2 Frank Lebrecht, San Jose No. 10, San Jose, Calif.
8 C. G. J. Gargadennec, Calaveras No. 78, San Andreas,
Calif.
.
' 29 Herbert C. Thorrrpson, Mont~zuma No. 30, Goldfield, Nev.
Oct.' 7 James · Henry Cunard,. Nevada No. 13, Nevada City, ·CaHf.
18 Asher Helm, Vegas No. 32, Las Vegas, Nevada.
"
Nov. 4 Homer. W. Chap~an, So. 'McAlester No. 96, McA,lester, '
Ok.l ahoma.' · ·
14 James G. Roberts', White Horse No. 46, White ' Horse,
Yukon Ter.
26 Max O. Plambeck, Herman ~o. 273, Grinnell, Iowa.
Dec. 9 James W. Pratt, Hawaiian No. 21, Honolulu, H. T.
.
10 Archie Lyon Beaton, Greenock St. John, Greenock, Scot;
land.
· 22 Jacob .Rymal Tay1or, Spokane No. 34, Spokane, Wash:
.
5 Ambrose Hood, Whitehall No. 310, Whitehall, Michigan.
20 Lewis ·B. Maynard, Queen City No. 358, Buffalo, N. Y. '
Zn William H. Hunt, Grand ~iver No. 34, Grand Rapids,
Michigan.
31 Joseph ·conrad Kincaid, Humboldt No. 79, Eureka; C~lif.
Feb. 3 William H. Guthrie, Parkland No. 638, Louisville, Ky.
6 Frank Augustus Tighe, Mt. Zion No. 9, Mt. Vernon, Ohio.
13 William Francis Halyard, Fellowship No. 355, Joplin, Mo.
24 Robert Jamieson, Greenock St. John No. 175, Greenock,
Scotland. ·
··
Mar. 22 Frederick J. G. McBride, Ionic No. 186, Duluth, Minn.
25 Raymond M. Whit'i ng, Standard No. 873, Chicago, Illinois.
27 Andrew Nicholson; Robert King Stewart ' No. 919, Scotland.
29 Orron W . Luster';··orient No. 126, Elizabeth, New 'Jersey.
April 17 Thomas Morgan Williams, · Antioch No. 175, .Aiittoch,
Calif.
27 Charles Gottlieb Munsch, Mosaic No. 218, Livermore,
Calif.
·
27 Edwin E. Day, Truckee No. 200, Truckee, Calif.
·~" ·
May 21 Ernest Walter Loeffler, Calaveras No. 78, San Andreas, ·
Calif.

201

GRAND LODGE bF CALIFORNIA

.• f!t9.~EEDINGS OF THE

200

June 28 Henry A. Hurlbut, Veteran No: 373, Sawtelle, Calif.
30 William G. Hall, Tucson No. 4, Tucson, Arizona.
July 12 H ezekiah Jenkins, Calaveras No. 78, San Andreas, Calif.
Total, 31.
,
• ., .,
WILLIAM L. WARNER, President. ·
R OBERT G. EVANS, Secretary ..
San Jose Board of Relief
R eceipts
Oct. 1, 1919, balance on hand .....................................................::.$ 800.02
From various sources ................:............ :..:............... :..:..... ~ ....:.......'.. · 953:37
Receipts to Oct. 1, 1920..............:.............................................$1,75'3.39
,Disbursements .
Relief and fonerals ......................................................... ~:.'. ......'...:.....$1,104.38
Sundry expenses ............................,......,.........,.................................... 104.00

$1,208.38
Oct. 1.· 1920• balance ..................................................................
·
·
•
$ ·545.01
L. M. SIMONSEN, Secretary. ·

1920

Jan.

Honolulu Board of Relief
R eceipts
Balance August 31, 1920:: .......................:............:.......$ 832.37
Lodge Le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371 , Assessment .........................................:-..:..:..........................
96.00
TTaw.aiian Lodge No. 21 Assessment
160.80
I I onolulu Lodge No. 409, Assessmen·~:::::::::::::::::::: 100.80
Reimbursed by.· Patil Reve re Lodge No. 462,
San Francisco ...~ ...................................................... 191.15
By Individuals-M. B ...................................................
8.71
F. H. D., Erie Lodge No. 239, Milan, O hio ...........
50.00
.

i.

~

Disbu.,.semen.t s .

R. A. R., Fidelity Lodge No. 228, Humiston, la.
M. ·B ...................,...............................................................
F. H. D., E rie Lodge No. 239, Milan, Ohio............
Halance on burial plot, Ocean View.cemetery......
Membership in Masonic Relief Ass'n
Cables o n individuals
......................
llalance cash on hand::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

$ 639.15
·30.75
! 50.00
526.00
7.45
13.41
173.07

$1,439.83 $1,439.83
W1LLIAM BJ;LL, Secretary.

202

GRAND LODGJ~ OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

203

Sacramento Board of Relief

Funerals

Receipts

Bro. E. V. Wales, of St. Clair Lodge No. 24, Belleville, Illinois,
died at Saratoga, Wyoming. Remains were brought to Sacramento.

366·
00

Cash on hand October 1, 1919.........................................
··--$ I09.68
.
. d f m Grand Lodge Oct., 1919..............$
R
ece1ve ro
'
550.93
Received from local Lodges .................................... 596.50
Refunds from other Lodges........................................
5 00
Received from in~i~iduals .......................................... - ~5:00
Refunds from ind1v1duals............................................
39.00 Donations ·················:···:···········:······································
71.46
Dividends on deposit .m savings bank.................... 288.32
Transferred from savings account ..:.........................
1.00
1,873.21
Error in bank account............... '..........-........................._ __

Bro. John A. Elder, of Oakcliff Lodge No. 705, Dallas, Texas,
died in this city January 25, 1920. Aged 86 years.

........................
Total cash············································:·······
- $1,982.89

Bro. Chris F. Pinkert, of Forest Lodge No. 66, Alleghany,
California, died in this city February 24, 1920. As:ed 47 years.

Bro. Montague J. Loringer, of Roseville Lo dge No. 222, died
in this city December 1, 1919. Aged 32 years.
Bro. S. E. Murray, of Oxnard Lodge No. 341 , Oxnard, California, 'd ied November 2, 1919.
Bro. James T. Keish, of Hartshorne Lodge No. 122, Hartshorne,
Oklahoma, died in this city December 26, 1919. Aged 68 years.

Bro. Thomas W. Smith, of Chickasasawba Lodge No. 134,
Blytheville, Arkansas, died February 19, 1920.
·

Disbursed

Salary of Secretary-Treasurer....................................$ 1 i~:~~
Printing ............................................................................
4.80
Typing ··············································································
4.00
Safe deposit ...................................................................... 1,793.01General Relief ................................................................_ __

Bro. James F . Hunt, of Forest L odge No. 66, Alleghany, California, died in this city April 18, 1920.
Bro. Chas. A. Ruman, Ione Lodge No. 80, Ione, California,
died in this city May 27, f920.

_Total disbursements ..........................................................$l,934·56
Balance cash on hand October 1, 1920.........................:......$

48.33

By Jurisdictions
Received
California ........................................................................$453·00
Illinois ............................................................................ ··········
Indiana ............................................................................
Louisiana ···································~···································· 25.50
Nevada ............................................................................ 93.00
Ohio ................................................................................
Texas .............................................................................. 25.00
Utah ..............................................................-. ................
Washington ..................................................................
Individuals .....................................~.............................. 60.00

Disbursed
$ 981.45
124.50
16.80
34.00
63.00
45.00
132.77
15.00
2.50
377.99

- $656.50

$1,793.01

Bro. J ohn H. Miller, St. Johns Lodge No. 13, Dayton, Ohio,
died in this city June 4, 19.ZO.
Bro. John W. White, Miner's Lodge No. 273, Galena, Illinois,
died at Fair Oaks, July 27, 1920.
Bro. Guy E. Slater, Center Lodge No. 23, Indianapolis, Indiana, died at San Jose, California, August 1, 1920.
Bro. Fred 0. Hurd, of Pacific Lodge No. 64, Exeter, Maine,
died September 4, 1920. Aged 57 years. ·
Bro. Daniel S. Sayre, of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8, Sonora, California, died September 18, 1920. Aged 77 years.

A. M. CAMERON, President.

E. C. HOPKINS, Secretary-Treasurer.

204

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MOVING PICTURES OF THE HOMES
· Past Grand M~ster Hervey spoke briefly but eff.ectivl'!ly
on the work and activities ~£ the Masonic Homes of Califorllia, ·and pre·sented to.' Grand Lodge, with the compliments of Brother Roy McCray, two reels of moving
pic'ture~ · depicting daily life at· th'e Home for Children at
Covina, as supplemental to the three reels provided by
the rrustees of the Homes. Brother Hervey moved that
the thanks .a.£ Grand Lodge be extended to Brother McCray
for his gift, and that our th;lnks a~~ also due and extended
to the Robert Bruntpn s·t~dios of Los. Angeles and the
PaCific;' Motion Picture Studio~ of San Fr4ncisco, for motion
pictures illustrating life at the Home at Decato and the
Home at Covina. Th~ moti~n was adopted by a ._rising vpte.
.. The· members present were then shown the two
Homes, through the agency · of the moVing· pictures, and
Grand Lodge was called off until. 10 o'.clock Wednesday
morning, at Masonic Temple.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Homes.
follows:

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Robert E. Allan, chairman of the Committee on Credentials, reported the following officers and representative~
of 366 chartered Lodges, delegates from t wenty Lodges
under dispensation, and Past Masters by service within this
jurisdiction as being present, namely:
California .............. No.

Robert H . Borland, Junior Warden;

;-.

· Wednesday, October .1:3, 1920. · · :

~rand , Lq~g~ was cal)ed on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

Western Star.......... N o.
Tehama ..................No.

The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
Several letters from William Dibble were pre"!>ented,
and they were referred to the Board of Trustees of the

1.... Walter P. Johnson, Master;

H. A. Cline, Past Master;

Morning Session.
'

Sub sequen tl y t h e B oard reported as

Your Trustees, to whom were referred the communications
fro?1 William Dibble, report tha t Grand Lodge having at a prc~edmg annual c~mmu~ication definitely declared its position, denying further cons1derat10n of the subject matters contained in these
letters, we are of the opinion that we have no power to
further consider the same, and herewith return them without
recommendation.

3Jn "ranh ieo1'gr.
....

205

Benicia .................... No.

W. Crocker, Past Master;
George D.eitter:e, Past Master ;
H. L. Dewey, Past Master;
P. M. Downing, Past Master;
D. E. F. Easton, Past Master;
F. V. Keesling, Past Master ·
C. L. Patton, Past Master; '
E. W. Peabody Past Master•
T. Rolph, Past 'Master;
. '
W. A. Scott, Past Master;
J. M. Whited, Past Master;
R. H . W ilcox, Past Master.
2.... George E. Ellington, Master ;
James W. Carter, Junior Warden.
3.... Lester G. Brownell, Master;
J. Mcindeor, Past Master;
T. ]. Milliken, Past Master ;
F. L. Thirkield, Past Master.
S.... John E. Wagner, Master ;
William H. Graham, Senior Warde~.

206
Tuolumne ..............No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8.... George A. Griffin, Master;
G. T. Black, Past Master;
0. J. Mouron, Past Master.
Corinthian .............. No. 9.... William M. Meek, Master;
S. Lewek, Past Master;
L. B. Wilcoxon, Past Master.
San Jose....................No 10.... George Wadey, Senior Warden;
J. P. Jarman, Past Master;
J. H. McGehee, Past Master;
C. H . Wheeler, Past Master;
P. S. Williams, Past Master.
Yount ...................... No. 12.... Clarence B. Kinney, Master;
N. E. Coombs, Past Master;
J. A. Pederson, Past Master;
F. W. Williams, Past Master.
Nevada .................... No. 13.... Walter E. Williams, Junior Warden.
Temple ....................No. 14.... James C. Gottenberg, Master;
Henry D. Burmester, Junior Warden.
Eureka .................... No. 16.... John H. Jeffreys, Master;
Rexford G. Prud'homme, Senior Warden;
M. D. Lininger, Past Master;
C. F. Richter, Past Master.
La Parfaite Union No. 17.... Cami!le H. Artru, Master;
Louis Figeac, Senior Warden;
Hippelyte Dragon, Junior Warden;
A. Hugenin, Past Master;
H . Mottet, Past Master.
Mountain Shade....No. 18.... Adam Kieffer, Master and Past Master ;
E. L. Case, Past Master.
San Joaquin ............No. 19.... Fred L. Kincaid, Master;
Benj. C. Wallace, Senior Warden;
A. Chalmers, Past Master.
Washington ..........No. 20.... Eugene Benjamin, Senior Warden;
J. J. McKinnon, Past Master.
Hawaiian ................No. 21....William A. Sherman, Repres.entative..
Occidental ..............No. 22.... Wm. P. Humphreys, Master;
Lem W. Spriggs, Senior Warden;
Rudo!ph Mohr, Junior Warden;
F. W. G. Moe bus, Past Master;
F. W. Nish, Past Master;
D. P. Vail, ·Past Master.
Madison .................. No. 23.... James J. Rowe, Master and Past Master;
G. L. Joneos, Past Master.
Mariposa ................ No. 24.... F. H. B. Catherwood, F. H . B.
Georgetown .......... No. 25.... Charles E. Jarrett, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

207

Palmyra ..................No. 26.... William S. Kirk, Junior Warden;
M. Mierson, Past Master;
G. C. Rolleri, Past Master.
Trinity ....................No. 27.... George F. Gehm, Master.
Go!den Gate............ No. 30.... Geo. H. Dannemark, Master;
Fred'k G. Canney, Senior Warden ;
Horace B. Brown, Junior Warden;
S: A. Clarke, Past Master;
E. L. Meyer, Past Master ;
E. C. C. W elles!ey, Past Master.
Gold Hill................N o. 3Z.... Walter K. Jansen, Master and Past Master.
Ophir ...................... No. 33.... J. T. Morley, Representative and Past
Master;
D. B. Driver, Past Master.
San Diego................ No. 35.... Fred'k W. Reif, Master;
J. F. West, Past Master.
St. John's ................No. 37.... Walter D. Nunamaker, .Master;
G. A. DeWitt, Past Master.
Santa Cruz..............N o. 38.... Ralph H. Smith, Master;
George H . Cardiff, Senior Warden.
Sacramento ............ No. 40.... Arthur F1 Henning, Master;
Ralph E. Hill, Senior Warden;
Edward S. J ones, Junior Warden;
W. H. Renwick, Past Master.
Martinez ................ No. 41....0rville E. Hayward, Master.
Los Angeles............No. 42.... William C. Mcintyre, Master;
A. T. Richardson, Past Master.
.H iram .................... No. 43.... Jacob A. Harris, Master.
Mount Moriah ........ No. 44.... Thomas Nixon, Master;
Wi!liam E. Rampe, Senior Warden ;
William E. Anderson, Junior Warden ;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
T. Frolich, Past Master;
D. B. Richards, Past Master.
Crescent ................ No. 46.... Martin M. Boutz, Master;
0 . Dudley, Past Master.
Forbestown ............No. 50.... M. G. Hill, Past Master.
Illinoistown .......... No. 51....A. Stevens, Past Master and Representative.
Suisun ....................No. 55.... Lester Gawthrop, Master;
Louis J. Hayes, Senior Warden;
E. L. Dearborn, Past Master.
Volcano .................. No. 56.... H. W. Chapman, Representative.
Santa Rosa .............. No. 57.... William B. Corrick, Maste r.
C. D. Barnett, Past Master.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGll: OF CALIFORNIA

Union --------···-··········No. 58.... Rufus B. Carlton, Master;
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
J . P. Bascom, Past Master;
J . F. Morgan, Past Master;
C. A. Root, Past Master.
Plumas ......... .'........ No. 00.... John E . Wilson, Master.
Live Oak ............... No. 61.... Samuel W. Burchaell, Master;
Charles W. Pangburn, Senior Warden;
Henry Bostwick, Junior Warden;
L. S. Griswo'.d, Past Master;
C. H . Victor, Past Master;
A. B. Webster, Past Master.
Natoma ...... :........... No. 64.... George H. Eveland, Master.
Amador .................. No. 65 .... William G. Snyder, Master and Past Master.
Forest ··-········-····---~--No. 66.... Frederick A. Austin, Master.
Morning Star ........No. 68.... Charles E. Norton, Master;
0. S. Henderson, P ast Master;
G. A. McKenzie, Past Master.
Enterprise ..............No. 70.... Lucian P. Farris, Master;
W . B. Clark, Past Master.
Bear Mountain ...... N o. 76.... Thomas H. Davey, Master and Past ,Master.
Calaveras ...............'. No. 78.... J . A. Holland, Past Master and Representative.
Humboldt .............. No. 79.... Fred J. Kasbohm, Master;
T. R. Dinsmore, Past Master;
J. T. Fraser, Past Master;
A. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Ione ,.......................No. 80.... George H. Yager, Master.
Yolo ........................ No. 81....James E. Harmon, Master and Past Master.
Vesper ....................No. 84.... Grant B. Wilcox, Senior Warden;
0. C. Combs, Past Master.
Naval .................:.... No. 87:... Carl L. Rhodes, Master;
Mark T. Andrews, Senior Warden ;
Charles E. Zander, Junior Warden;
B. C. Whiteley, Past Master.
Rose's Bar.......... :... No. 89.... R. R. Beatty, Past Master and Represerytative;
J. Durfee, Past Master.
North Star .............. No. 91....RaY W. Smith, Representative.
St. Helena ........... :.. N o: 93 .... Theodore Simmonsen, Master ;
Leroy F. Macdonald, Senior Warden;
Henry Clay ............ No. 95 .... Henry Warrington, Master and Past Master.
C. E. Richards, Past Master.
Howard .................. No. 96.... Charles L. Noel, Master;
M. H. Madden, Past Master.

Jefferson ................No. 97.... J., Wiegand, Past Master and Representative;
G. May, Past Master.
Hornitos ................No. 98. ... John W. Riggins, Master;
Byno D. Granger, Junior Warden.
Yosemite ................ No. 99.... 0rrin T. W. Fowler, Senior Warden.
C:ay .......................... No. 101....Frank L. Harmon, Senior Warden .
Oroville ............ :..... No. 103.... Charles 0. Hamilton, Master and Past
Master;
·
A. E. Boy11ton, Senior Ward en.
Lexington ..............No. 104.... Vincent E. Bowser, Master.
Arcata .................... No. 106.... Robert L. Jones Master.
p aJaro
.
'
...................,No. 110.... Edward G. Burland, Master;
Lynn L. Marsh, Senior Warden.
Chico ··········--···-···-··No. 111....Alphonso H. Sanborn, Senior Warden.
Eden ······-····--··········· No . .113 ....Joseph E. Mills, Master and Past Master.
S. B. Force, P,ast Master.
Concord ············-····No. 117.... Alfred B. Oldfield, Master;
Frederick J. Harris, Senior Warden;
]. M. Chapman, Past Master;
]. F. Lyon, Past Master;
C. A. Schocke, Past Master.
Clinton .......:..........No. 119.... T . A. , Jones, Past Master and Representative.
Fidelity ············-····No. 120.... Alfred E. Hofmann, Master;
S. Edgar Goldsmith, Junior Warden;
J. P. Albro, Past Master;
· :· 'i!f P. Jacobovics, Past Master;
. .: ·,,·i"iJ. Nieto, Past Master;
' ·' H. M. Wal'.enstein, Past Master.
Alamo ....................No. 122.... Cyril R. Hook, Master.
Sotoyome .............,No. 123.... Orrin W. Engelke, Master; ·
G. T. Hansen, Past Master.,
La Fayette .............. N o. 126.... William Stillings, Master.
Hermann ............. ,..No. 127.... Hans H. Schmalfeld, Master and Past
Master;
Max Breithaupt, Senior Warden ;
, Ernest Gentner, Junior Ward en.
Visa lia ............,.......No. 128.... H. H. Newman, Past Master and Repre.
sentative.
Nicolaus ........ ._.. ,... No. 129.... Charles. A. Rieckers, Master;
..
C. Waltz, Past Master.
Woodbridge ... ,...... No. 131...;Cralis Dexter, · Master.

208

209

PROC.EEDINGS OF THE

GRAXD LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Vacaville ................ No. 134.... John T. Montgomery, Master and Past
·
Master;
H. G. Fowler, Past Master.
Valley .................... No. 136.... Frank J. Foote, Master and Past Master.
Pacific ....................No. 136.... Robert L. Lincoln, Master;
Wi:liam Franta, Senior Warden;
F. J. Wimperly, Junior Warden;
I. J. Aschheim, Past Master;
T. Anderson, Past Master;
G. L. Darling, Past Master;
E. S. Elkus, Past Master;
F. L. Hansen, Past Master;
P. Nathan, Past Master;
G. M. Perine, Past Master;
A. W . Turp.in, Past Master;
E. L. West, Past M~ster.
Crockett .................. No. 139.... Robert J. Thompson, Master;
Peter Jorgensen, Senior Warden;
Bernard S. Pedersen, Junior Ward en ;
J. 0. L. Brunswig, Past Master;
J . W. Davies, Past Master;
. W. R. .Gibson, Past Master;
H. J. Lloyd, Past Master ;
H. W. Maass, Past Master ;
H. McBirney, Past Master;
T . Rowlands, Past Master.
Curtis ...................... No. 140.... Frank Bond, Master.
Grafton .................. No. 141....Joseph E. Spink, Master.
F ranklin .................. No. 143....J acob B. Miller, Master;
J. H. Hyde, Past Master;
H . D. Kercheval, Past Master.
Oriental ..................No. 144.... George N. Stroh, Master;
Herman V. Leffler, Senior Warden;
William E. McHugh, Junior Warden;
0. L. Berry, Past Master ;
C. W . Dobie, Past Master;
0. L. Gibson, Past Master;
R. C. Jewell, Past Master;
H. M. J effreys, Past Master ;
C. W. Whitney, Past Master.
Vitruvius ................No. 145.... Clyde L. LeBaron, Master;
Wi:liam D. Johnson, Junior Warden.
Abell ........................ No. 146.... Raymond 0. Fo~ter, Master ;
J. M. Mannon, Sr., Past Master.

Eel River ................No. 147.... Bertram F . Morgan, Senior Warden.
Lassen ....................No. 149.... J. B .. Spaulding, Past Master and Representative;
J. A. Pardee, Past Master.
Molino .................... No. 150.... J. C. Peterson, Representative.
W oodland .............. No. 156.... H. H. Gable, Past Master.
Keystone ................ No. 161.... H. B. Allen, Past Master and Representative.
Excelsior ................ No; 166.... James W. Crosby, Master;
John C. Bovey, Senior Warden;
C. A. Adams, Past Mastrr;
G. R. Armstrong, Past Master;
W. N. Brunt, Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Past Master;
D. A. Hare, Past Master.
Alameda ................ No. 167.... Benjamin C. Mickel, Master;
F. B. Hartman, Past Master;
E. A. Ormsby, Past Master.
Redwood City........ No.168.... Lawrence A. Heii;ier, Senior Warden;
John Gill, Junior Warden;
0 . M. Carrington," Past Master;
C. G. Lambert, Past Master;
H. Potts, Past Master.
Mission .................. No. 169.... Frank H. Mattern, Master;
William C. Strick!er, Senior Warden;
William C. Olsen, Junior Warden;
R. S. Allen, Past Master;
R. E. Allan, Past Master;
W. W. Moore, Past Master;
M. H. Renwick, Past Master;
F. H . T hrall, Past Master; •
E. W. Tucker, Past Master;
L. E. Wallace, Past Master;
W. H. Worden, Past Master.
EI:cGrove................No.173.... Charles H. Cooper, Master;
T . L. Conrad, Past Master.
Antioch .................. No. 175.... Harry H. Madison, Senior Warden.
Phoenix .................. No. 178.... John K. Gi:bert, Senior Warden;
W. B. Howes, Past Master;
H. M. Newburg, Past Master;
H. D. Shaw, Past Master.
Mendocino ............ No. 179.... William Henry, Master.
Petaluma ................ No. 180.... Napoleon B. Rundall, Master.
Russian River ........ No. 181.... Ira B. Gutshall, Master;
G. T. Trowbridge, Past Master.
Sierra Valley.......... No. 184.... Chas. Dubourdieu, Jr., Master.

210

211

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Claiborne ................ No. 185.... John J . Caylor, Master;
W. I. Thomas, Past Master.
Evening Star........ :.No. 186.... Hubert C. Eller, Master.
Keith ...................... No. 187.... Bert W. Martin, Master;
F. H . Sebire, Past Master.
Oakland .................. No. 188.... George E. Madison, Master;
R. B. Gaylord, Past Master.
Xorthern Light...... No.190.... E. H. Butzbach, Past Master and Reprc·
sentative.
i\larin ...................... No. 191.... Horace W . Rice, Master;
Wm. L, Chamberlain, Senior Warden;
Charles T . Smith, Junior Warden;
F. M. Angel'.otti, Past Master;
A. N. Boyen, Past Master;
]. Clute, Past Master;
.A: B. Dewing, Past Master;
R. Furlonf!, Past Master;
G. F. Rodden, Past Master.
Santa Barbara........ No. 192.... Samuel S. Bingham, Master;
Andrew Mcintyre, Junior Warden;
G. W. Tomlinson, Past Master.
Ferndale ...... ~.........No. 193.... Walte.r A. Bartlett, Master.
Mountain View ......No. 194.... Russel F. Miller, Master;
C. P. Berry, Past Master.
Buckeye ............~ ..... No. 195... .J. E. Sackett, Past Master and Repre.
sentative.
San Simeon ............ No. 196.... James F. Stewart, Master and Past Master.
Wilmington ..........No. 198.... R. H. Newman, Past Master and Representative.
Hart'ey ..................No. 199.... Joseph M. Church, Master and Past Master;
•
C. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Pentalpha .............. No. 202.... Jack Paschall, Master;
·
William H. C.. Ness, Senior Warden;
Harry H . White'.ey, Junior Warden;
C. W, Blake, Past Master;
·
C. W. Gist, Past Master;
J. B. Gist, Past Master;
W . H. Hervey, Past Master.
Confidence ..............No. 203.....Walter C. Buttle, Master and Past Master;
Charles Charles, Past Master.
Salinas ................ ~ ... No. 204.... Geoff J. Peaslee, Master.
Olivet :..................... No.205.... William H. George, Master;
Homer D. Crooks, Senior Warden;
Albert E. Greiner, Junior W ardea.
Stanisla~s ..............No. 206.... I. H. Evans, Representative. .

GRAND LODGE OF C,ALIFORNIA

213

Anaheim ................ No. 207.... Elmer H. Metcalf, Master;
H. 0. Henderson, Past Master.
l~i<", Vista................. No. 208.... Walter Schaefer, Master;
Daniel C. Stewart, Senior Warden.
King David's .......... No. 209.... Maurice F. Dyer, Master;
W. D. Adriance, Past Master;
D. M. Garrison, Past Master;
J. Whicher, Past Master.
J!riemlship .............. No:210.... Alvin Long, Master;
]. Pash, Past Master;
T . M. Wright, Past Master.
San Benito..........:···No. 211.... Herbert M. Wi'liams, Master.
So. San Francisco No. 212.... T. Ske,lly, Past Master and Representative;
W. J. B. Warner, Past Master.
San Buenaventura No. 214.... Ernest W. Argabrite, Junior Warden;
D. J. Reese, Past Master.
Oak · Gro\'e.............. No."215 .... Samuel 0. Bowles, Master;
H. G. Ilderton, Past Master.
Doric ...................... No. 216.... Chester C. Gilbert, Master;
Ralph H. Lachmund, Senior Warden ;
Louis J. Cohn, Junior Warden;
S. Myrson, Past Master.
Monterey ................ No. 217....Joseph H. Graves, Master.
Mosaic .................... No. 218....T . F. Brady, Representative.
Speranza Italiana .. N o. 219....J ohn Isola, Ma.ster;
J ohn M. Icardo, Senior Warden;
Nicola Colapietro, Junior Warden;
A. Cogiandro, Past Master; .
G. B. Cordano, Past Master;
]. Icardo, Past Master;
E. V. Lonigo, Past Master ;
P. Rigetti, Past Master;
G. Scalmanini, Past Master;
L. Valsangiacomo, Past Master.
Downey .. ~:.............. No. 220".... Walter M. Booth, Master.
Jnyo ...................... :.No. 221.... John C. Morris, Master:
Roseville ......:.........No. 222.... Charles T. McCracken, Master;
A. R. De'ano, Past Master.
Rakers field ............ No. 224.... Roscoe E. McCabe, Master;
Ed. L. Hougham, Senior Warden;
Mervil W. Gist, Junior Warden;
A. S. Crites, Past Master;
W. W . Kaye, Past Master.

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFUHNIA

Brooklyn ....:........... No.225 .... Wm. H. McCutcheon, Master;
Irving Magnes, Senior Warden;
Tyler C. Drennan, Junior Warden;
J. C. Foster, Past Master;
G. D. Warren, Past Master.
San Mateo ............ No. 226.... Albert A. Rochex, Master;
George W. Kertell, Senior Warden;
. George E. Munro, Junior Warden;
C. A. M. Vandenbos, Past Master.
Athens ....................No. 228.... Gustav A. Haussler, Junior Warden;
B. B. Tuttle, Past Master.
Solano .................... No. 229.... Edwin N. Sanders, Master;
Bryant R. Smith, Junior Warden;
A. S. Halliday, Past Master;
J. E. Sanderson, Past Master;
J. F. Walters, Past Master.
North Butte.......... No. 230.... James P. Fagan, Master and Past Master.
Covelo .................... No. 231.... C. H. Hurt, Past Master and Representa·
tive.
Janesville ................ No. 232.... I. E. Bailey, Past Master.
Calistoga ................ No. 233.... Edward M. Bardwell, Master;
F. Ashton, Past Master.
Hope ........................No. 234.... Charles Garrison, Master and Past Master.
Surprise Va'. ley......No. 235.... Thomas B. Sizer, Master and Past Master.
Hill's Ferry............ No. 236.... Wa'te.r H . Klehn, Master.
Guadalupe ..............No. 237.... W. T. Lucas, Past Master;
F. H. McCoy, Past Master and Representative.
Colusa ....................No. 240.... G. P. Ahlf, Past Master and Representative;
A. Ahlf, Past Master.
Santa Ana.............. No. 241....Roy S. Horton. Master;
Walter L. McCleery, Senior Warden;
E. B. Trago, Past Master.
Magnolia ................ No. 242.... George A. Miller, Master.
Eucalyptus ............ No. 243.... Herman Bernett, Senior Warden;
·
Samuel C. Edwards, Junior Warden;
Alcatraz .................. No. 244.... William L. Warner, Master;
Vernon J. Coley, Senior Warden;
L. T. Corwin, Past Master.
·
Laurel ...................... No. 245 .... Leon Speiler, Senior Warden.
Pomona ..................No. 246.... Joseph A. Allard, Jr., Senior Warden;
Thamer J . Nogg'e, Junior Warden;
W. A. Vandegrift, Past Master.
Fresno .................... No. 247.... George E. Machen, Master.
0

215

Alturas .................. No. 248.... C. S. Baldwin, Past Master;
E. C. Bonner, Past Master and Representative.
Adin .......................:No. 250.... Buffington A. Chase, Master and Past
Master.
Landmark .....:........No. 253.... Philip G. Everett, Senior Warden.
Reading .................. No. 254.... C. C. Dakin, Past Master;
McC. Fitzgerald, Past Master;
A. F. Souza, Jr., Past Master;
H. E. Thompson, Past Master and Representative.
Welcome ................No. 255.... M. C. Carter, Past Master and Representative.
Lodi ........................ No. 256.... Melville W. Newfield, Master;
Alfred Westfall, Senior Warden;
William C. Brown, Junior Warden;
G. W. LeMoin, Past Master.
Penrhyn .................. No. 258.... David D. Wilson, Master.
Evergreen .............. No. 259.... Frank Herkelrath, Master;
Oak'. ey K. Morton, Junior Warden;
H. D. French, Past Master;
A. H. Winder, Past Master ;
L. A. Cowles, Past Master.
King So!omon's .... No. 260.... J ohn H. Crabbe, Master;
· E. E. Conn, Past Master;
W. P. Filmer, Past Master;
G. E. W eaver, Past Master.
Tuscan .................... No. 261....Ralph F. Fouch, Senior Warden;
J. L. Mendelhall, Past Master.
Lompoc .................. No. 262.... Walter A. Stewart, Senior Warden.
Hesperian ..............No. 264.... Chas. W. G. Murdock, Master;
Charles W. Marsh, Senior Warden.
Orland .................... No. 265.... W. Clark, Rep.resentative and P·ast Master.
North East.. ............No: 266.... C. D. Kafader, Past Master and Representative.
Galt .......................... No. 267.... Raymond P . Cornell, Master.
Durant ....................No. 268.... William E. Ashland, Master;
W. W. Bradley, Past Master;
W. H. Waste, Past Master.
Olive Branch.......... No. 269.... Peter Lawson, Master;
G. W. Zartman, Past Master and Reprt:sentative.
Snow Mountain .... No. 271....F. M. Keese'.ing, Representative.
Pasadena ................ No. 272.... Frank Walton, Master.

216

PHOCKb.. DlNGS OF THE·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Anchor -----········'-·····No. 273.... Cash C. Stall, Senior Warden;
E. M. James, Past Master;
C. W. Musselman, Past Master.
Arroyo .................... No. 274....John R. Reinike, Master;
E. Chase, Past Master.
Oakda'e .................. No. 275., .. Archihald ·k· Patterson, Junior Warden.
Selma ....................;.No. 277.... ]. L. Mitchell, Past Master and Repre. · sentative.
Southern Calif....... No. 278.... William T. McAllister, Senior Warden;
John S. McQuiston, Junior Warden;
W. H. Harrison, Past Master;
W. P. Jeffries, Past Master;
E. B. Spencer, Past Master ;
Dana R. Weller, Past Master.
Hanford .........- ..... No. 279.... John B. Bowden, Master;
E. F. Clute, Past Master.
Mount Shasta ........ No. 281.... E. F. Long, Past Master and Representative;
Otto G. Trautz, Past Master.
Callayomi .............. No. 282.... E'mer E. Noyes, Junior Warden.
South We.st......,..... N:o. 283.... Paul T. Mizony, Master;
:
J. M. Kendall, Past Master.
San Miguel ............No. 285 .... William McN au!, Master.
Paso Robles ............ No. 286.... Grover H. Coburn, Master and Past Master;
Wm. G. Ga'tes, Senior Warden and Past
Master.
Winnedumah ........ No. 287.... Ira 0 . Clark, Master and Past Master.
Maxwell .................. No. 288.... A. ]. Fouch, Past Master and Representative.
Elsinore ..................No. 289.... D. R. Crane, Past Master and Representative;
M. N. Hebelin, Past Master.
East ,Gat~ ................No. 290.... ·:uke Hubbard, Master;
Cornelius Van Dingstee, Senior Warden;
F. C. Mulkey, Past Master.
Santa Paula ............ No. 291.... Dudley L. Davis, Master.
Los Gatos._...............,No. 292.... Edward W. ' Vodden, Junior Warden.
Orange Grove........ N o. 293.... Harrison Z. Adams, Master;
'
Leon 0. Whitsell, Senior Warden.
Traver .................... No. ~94.... Tohn F, Stone, Master;
H . .E. Verble, Past Master.
Mt. Jackson ............ No.295 .... 'Va'ter G. Fonda, Master;
Wm. McF.' Shinn, Senior Warden ;
W. L. Cole, Past Master.

Silver Gate .............. No. 296.... Rudolph H. Reinert, Master;
Herman W. Scheid, Senior Warden·;
Norton Langford, Junior Warden.
Dunsmuir ..............No. 297.... Benjamin R. Fauber, Master and Past
Master;
.G. A. H utaff, Past Master ;
C.
Porter, Past Master.
Liberty ..................,,No. 299.... Charles A. Engles, Master;
. James E. Glendenning, Senior Warden;
H. A. Myers, Past Master.
Redlands ................ No. 300.... William A. Hartman, Senior W arden.
Ontario ......,..;..........No. 3()1.... Glenn W. McCurdy, Senior .W arden.
Santa Lucia ............No. 3()2.... R. R. Allen, Past Master and Representative.
Portervi'.le .............. No. 303~ ... Charles L. Guthrie, Master.
Reedley .................. No. 304.... F. E. Studley, Representative.
Azusa ...................... No. 305.... Leslie M. Renaker, Master.
Ashlar .................... No. 306.... John J. Andrews, Master.
Santa Monica........No. 307...,Ray F. Howard, Master.
Monrovia ................ No. 308.... Samuel E. Salisbury, Master ;
E. E. Knepper, Past Master.
Delano .....................No. 309.... Ward Robertson, Master;
J. J. Schlitz, Past Master ;
A. Sheppard, Past Master.
Tehachapi .............. No. 313.... P. Marx, Past Master.
Temescal ................No. 314....John W. Walker, Master.
Norwalk ................ No. 315.... James H . Macklin, Master.
Sanger ....................No. 316.... 0ra J. Hudson, Master.
Fallbrook ................ No. 317.... Ellis B. Walton, Senior Warden.
Emmanuel ............ No. 318.... H. W. Haselbusch, Past Master and Representative.
Hollenbeck ............ No. 319.... l\1elvin A. Bresee, Master;
Joseph Simmons, Senior Warden ;
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
W. J. Sanborn, Past Master;
L. V. Youngworth, Past Master.
South Gate..............No. 320.... Frank H. Asbury, Master;
Knowlton R. Bradley, Senior W arden ;
Robie E. Dill, Past Master;
.
J. W. Kemp, Past Master.
Alisa! ...................... No. 321....Crawford Letham, .Master and Past Master;
Robert F. Blacow, Senior Warden;
Clinton DeC,. Kee'.er, Junior Warden.
Alhambra .............. No. 322.... Herbert B. Balmer, Master.

o:

217

218

PROCEEDINGS OF '.'.'HE

Whittier .................. No. 323 .... Leslie C. Nanney, Master;
C. E . Trueblood, Past Master.
Corona ....................No. 324.... Ralph Harris, Master;
L. L. Test, Past Master.
Consue'.o ................ No. 325.... Milton V. Wisdom, Master;
W. W. Carpenter, Past Master.
Need:es ..................No. 326.... Frederick W. Quirmbach, Master;
.
F. B. Krallman, Past Master.
Long Beach ............ No. 327.... Norman H. Schlieper, Master;
C. H. Shaw, Past Master.
Redondo ................ No. 328.... John R. Coward, Master.
Vallee De France.. N o. 329.... Leon Curt et, Master and Past Master.
Kilauea .................. No. 330.... Thomas J. Baker, Representative.
Pacific Grove .......... No. 331.... Henry G. Jorgensen, Master and Past
Master;
Edward E. Long, Senior Warden..
San Pedro ..............No. 332.... A. F. E. Irwin, Master;
John C. Rudbach, Senior Warden;
E. P. Ingmire, Past Master;
L. S. Anderson; Past Master.
Alta .......................... No. 333.... J. D. Murphey; Past Master.
Covina .................... No. 334.... A. Nigg, Past Master and Representative.
West Gate ..............No. 335 ....Jacob C. Cummins, Master;
·
Otto Rumage, Senior Warden;
D. Cave, Past Master ;
D. A. Schweitzer, Past Master.
Fruitvale ................ No. 336.... William I. Day, Master;
Albert P. Hill, Senior Warden;
Harvey K, Tay'.or, Junior Warden ;
]. C. McEwen, Past Master;
H. C. Schwinn, Past Master.
Carquinez .............. No. 337.... William M. Adams, Master;
James King, Senior Warden;
Jack Patterson, Junior Warden;
J . J . Burdon, Past Master;
J. E. Hugh es, Past Master;
G. Jones, Past Master.
San Jacinto............ No. 338.... 0live P . Ensley, Senior Warden.
Fullerton ................No. 339.... Perry C. Wood ward, Master ;
Curtis W. Reeve, Senior Warden ;
C. S. Chapman, Past Master.
Oxnard .................. No. 341....Herbert J. Prentice, Master;
Philip S. Cummings, Senior Warden;
William W . McKee, Junior Warden.
San Fernando........ No. 343.... C. W. Juchy, Representative.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Starr King.............. No. 344.... Bernard J. Joseph, Master;
Arthur Cantrowith, Senior Warden;
James E. C9lston, Junior Warden;
C. 0. Clausen, Past Master;
S. Deutsch, Past Master ;
J . W. Gale, Past Master;
C. 0 . Munson, Past Master;
H. L. Simon, Past Master;
C. M. Wollenberg, Past Master.
Brentwood ............ No. 345 .... Robert H . Wallace, Master.
Palo Alto................ No. 346.... Edgerton D. Lakin, Master;
Louis o:sen, Senior Warden;
Howard B. Amidon, Junior Warden;
A. Seale, Past Master ; .
H. N. Vandervoo'rt, Past Master.
McKinley ................ No. 347.... Thomas H . Summers, Master;
M. H. Carey, Past Master;
W. T. Helms, Past Master.
San Bernardino.... No. 348.... George F. A, Feetham, Master;
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Master.
Sequoia ..................No. 349.... Wesley W . Kergan, Master;
G. W. Bacon, Past Master:
E. F. Hughes, Past Master;
C. Husband, Past Master.
Palestine ................ No. 351....Thomas C. Jones, Master;
W. F. Haas, Past Master.
Sunset ....................No. 352.... Lee R. Emery, Master ;
S. E. Burke, Past Master;
R. A. Chase, Past. Master;
D. M. Sunderland, Past Master.
Pinole ....................No. 353.... John H. Curran, Master;
H . McCullough, Past Master.
Presidio ..................No. 354.... H. K. McKevitt, Past Master:
W. A. Sherman, Past Master;
F. G. Watson, P ast Master.
Hollywood ............ No. 355.... J ames M. Campbell, Senior Warden;
H. W. Glidden, Past Master.
Mi '. ! Valley............No. 356.... Charles ]. Brockhoff, Master;
James G. Saxton, Jr., Senior Warden;
Leon P. Van Atta, Junior Warden;
A. Coffin, Past Master;
T. T. Greaves, Past Master;
H. A. Klyce, Past Master;
E. S. Merriman, Past Master ;
K. J. L. Seymour, Past Master;
T. A. Watters, Past Master.

219

220

l'HOCEEDINGS OF THE ·

Buena Park............ No. 357.... George McNeil, Mast~r.
Golden State........... No. 358...".J. Walter Hanby, Master.
San FranciscQ........No. 360.... Ernest R. Byers, Master;
·
Hubert R. Stovel, Senior Warden;
Frank W. Aitken, Junior Warden;
H. D. Loveland, Past Master;
· Harry S. Johnson, Past Master;
V. E. Perry, Past Master.
Fort Bragg............ No. 361.. .. Harold A. Brown, Master.
Charity .........._. ....... No. 362.... Floyd 0 . Bohnett, Senior Warden;
W. C. Bohnett, Junior Warden.
Berkeley ................ No. 363.... Chas. H. Patterson, Master;
Ernest A. Richards, Senior Warden;
R. P. Arnold, Past Master;
C. A. McKelvey, Past Master.
Willits ..,...........,..... No. 365.... Jerome E. Winstandley, Senior Warden;
·
R. C. J. Ritschel, Past Master.
Las Palmas............ No. 366.... Ralph D. Vianello, Master;
J. P. Bernard, Past Master.
South Pasadena.... No. 367.... Dudley W. Robinson, Master;
W alter Q. Patten, Senior Warden.
Unity ..............._. ...... No. 368.... Frederick Baker, Master.
Ocean Park ............ No. 369.... Dwight C. Freeman, Master.
Amity ..................,...No.370.... John W. Hatch, Master;
Frederick H. Wood, Senior Warden;
Elza L. Lichty, Jtmior Warden ;
W. B. Curtis, Past Master ;
H. C. Klevesahl, Past Master;
W. P. Stanton, Past Master;
R. I. Wisler, ·P ast Master;
W. E. Wood, Past Master.
Le Progres de
L'Oceanie ........... No. 371.... Thomas J. Baker, Representative.
Gardena ............:..... No. 372.... Frank R. Carre\!, Master..
Veteran .....,............ No. 373.... Clive Yeager, Master;
C. L. Edinger, Past Master.
J ewe! ..............:........ No. 374.... Clarence J. Shipaugh, Master;
·
John H. Adams, Senior Warden;
Charles E. Ancjerson, Junior Warden;
Leo Bruck, Past Master;
.
J. A. Snell, Past Master.
Richmond .............. No. 375.... Frank C. Ruppel, Master ;
Frank Hol!ingshead, Senior Warden;
·
Herbert H. Piper, Junior Warden;
E. L. Fischer, ,Past Master.

· · GRAND LO.OGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

221

Francis Drake........No. 376.... John W. Colebird, Master.
Artesia ........:........... No. 377.... Claire S. Thompson, Master;
.
.
F. D. Caldwell, Past Master.
Mizpah :...................No. 378-... James E. Harshman, Master;
Leo Clairrriont, Senior Warden
Fillmore ................•:.No. 379.... Ralph E. Burson I Master·1
.
Walter W. Newcomer, Senior Warden'
•
J. P. Hinkley, Past Master.
'
Huntington Beach No. 380.... Roxley L. · Obarr, Senior Warden. ·
Oceanside .............. No. 381.... William V. Nichols, · Master am! Pa ~t
·
Master.
Highland Park. ..... No. 382.... C:aude W. Stowe, Master ;
H. F. Weller, Past Master.
Orosi
......................
No.
383
....
Addison G. Ledbetter
l c
. . , Master.
entro.,.............. No. 384.... Clarence W. Barton, Master;
E
.
J. S. Ross, Past Master.
Dmuba ..........:......... No. 385.... Howard C. Ensign, Master;
.
J. D. Pillsbury, Past Master.
Coalinga ................ No. 387.... Thomas P. Smith, Senior Warden.
Parnassus .............. No. 388.... J ohn C. Doest, Master;
Thomas H. Price, Senior Warden;
E. F. Luideck, Past Master ;
H. R. Spaulding, Past Master.
Palos Verdes..........N o. 389.... E. S. Acres, Representative.
lmperial ..............:... No. 390.... Tohn C. Phillips, Senior W arden.
East Belt... ............... No. 391.... Samuel W. Beeman, Junior Warden.
West Lake.............. No. 392.... Charles L. Wilde, Master ;
·
Perry E. Sawyer, Senior Warden ·
Charles W. McQuigg, Junior Warden;
W. T. Osterholt, Past Master.
Ba~der .................... No. 393.... Elias E'lison, Master;
·
Frank Johnson, Senior Warden·
John 0 . Hanson, Junior Ward:n;
. C. G. Johnson, Past Master ;
F .. 0 . Sjogren, Past Master.
University ..........:...No: 394.... Carl H. Von Breton, Master;
William A. Holt, Senior Warden;
I. J. Mitchell, Past Master.
Turlock .....:.........:..No. 395.... Fred C. Englesby, Master;
'Albert W. ·B erteaux, Senior Warden;
Charlie C. Hale, Junior Warden ·
H. P. Eddy, Past Master ;
'
A. W. J ohnson, Past Master·
Roy Sunderland, Representa;ive.

222

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Apollo ·'··················No. 396.... Emil T . Bertelsen, Junior Warden;
E. N. Clintsman, Past Master;
C. B. Greeley, Past Master.
Rising Light.......... No. 397.... Mortimer Pearson, Master;
William Todd, Senior Warden.
Fraternity .............. No. 399.... George B. Deter, Master;
R ]. Butler, Past Master;
C. L. Snyder, Past Master.
Burlingame ............No. 400.... Andrew S. Lamond, Master;
Luther E. Penniman, Senior Warden;
C. Jellinek, ·Past Master;
W . Wilkin, Past Master.
Bay View................ No.401.... Frank T. Sweeney, Junior Warden;
H . E. Long, Past Master and Representa.tive.
Brawley .................. No. 402..~Ralph W. Stilgenbaur, Master.
Yerba Buena..........N o. 403.... Charles W. Snook, Master;
Frederick W. Ostrander, Senior Warden;
Oswa'.d R. Wood, Junior Warden;
F. W. LeBallister, Past Master.
Glendora ................ No. 404.... G. B. Gordon, Past Master and Representative.
Mon eta ....................No. 405.... Frank I. Hamilton, Master;
Earl A. Hoff, Senior Warden;
C. H. Campbell, Past Master.
Burbank .................. No. 406.... Frank C. Miller, Junior Warden.
La Mesa.................. No. 407.... charles H. Noyes, Master.
Sierra Madre........ No. 408.... wmard A. Evans, .Master.
Honolulu ................ No. 409.... Thos. ]. Baker, · Representative.
Charter Rock. ......... No. 410_.. George L. Sargent, Master;
John A. Wolcott, S~nior Warden ;
H. R. Braden, Past Master;
Max A. Plumb, Past Master;
E . S. Valentine, Past Master.
Perris ...................... No. 411....Ra'.ph E. Holloway, Master;
F. J . Bonner, Past Master.
Calexico .................. No. 412.... Frank Ziegler, Master.
Waucoba ................ No. 413.... Allan R. McDonald, Junior Warden.
. Arlington ................No. 414.... Roscoe H. Haverfield, Master;
Chas. E. Spaulding, Senior Warden;
J . C. Lewis, Past Master;
C. P. Lyndall, Past Master.
Silver Trowel... .....N o. 415 .... Harry R. Cage, Master;
Ernest G. Gee, Senior Warden.

Lindsay ..................No. 416.... Glen L. Johnson, Ma~ter;
H . A. Barr, Past Master.
Clovis ...................... No. 417.... Emory R. Reyburn, Master.
Elysian .................. No. 418.... William S. Sagar, Master;
.
R. J. Burke, Past Master.
Up'and .....,.............. No. 419.... William R. Farmer, Master.
Kerman .................. No. 420.... Richard Gardner, Master and Past Master.
Inglewood ..............No. 421.... Wil:iam McG. Dudley, Master;
Leonard D. Ruegg, Senior Warden.
Eagle Rock ............ N o. 422.... Robert ]. Broxholme, Master.
York ........................No.423.... Claude R. Freeman, Master.
Exeter ....................No. 424.... Andrew W. Quinn, Master;
Walter P. Ballard, Senior Warden;
Clarence 0. Patten, Junior Warden;
C. K. Crane, Past Master;
F. W. Mixter, Past Master.
Holtville ................No. 425 .... Albert B. Cravath, Senior Warden.
Midway .................. No. 426.... James A, Calhoun, Master.
Chino Valley..........No. 427.... William C. Walker, Master.
San Dimas..............No. 428.... A. E. Tangeman, Past Master and Representative.
Pittsburg ................No. 429.... Leslie C. Keithley, Master.
McCloud ................No. 430.... Co'. ton B. Daveney, Master;
D. S. Painter, Past Master;
E. M. Smith, Past Master.
Alpha ....................... No. 431.... William]. Lane, Master;
Clyde C. Olney, Senior Warden.
Hammonton ..........No. 433.... Newton Cleveland, Master; ·
D. C. McDonald, Past Master;
J . H. McGill, Past Master.
Maricopa ................No. 434.... Walter C. Shaver, Junior Warden.
Fairmount ............No. 4:55 .... George M. Bernhard, Master;
George W. Gerhard, Senior Warden ;
Peter Pensotti, Junior Warden;
D. S. W agstaff, P ast Master.
Claremont ..............No. 436.... Homer E. Robbins, Master;
Louis A. Koch, Senior Warden;
W. L. Smith, Past Master.
Lancaster ..............No. 437.... Milton Cheney, Master;
W arren E. Mills, Senior \Varden.
Acacia ....................No. 438.... Karl L. Ratzer, Master.
Tyrian ....................No. 439.... Thomas T. Wiggin, Master;
Car! V. Strom, Junior Warden.

223

GUAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

StandarJi --------------··No. 440.... Clyde L- Foster, Master;
Herman F. Murbach, Senior Warden;
Lester T. Kooreman, Junior Warden;
E. M. Jones,. Past Master.
Coronado ________________ No. 44L .. Rudolph F. Bruske, Master;
A. A. Mathewson, Past Master.
Blackmer ·---------------No. 442.... Chas. W. Potter, Master;
W. E. Libby; Past Master.
Schofield ·---------------No. 443 .... Thomas J. Baker, Representative.
Carpinteria ____________ No. 444 ___ , Charles Curtis, Master.
Wilshire -----·---------·No. 445 .... Paul Burks, Master;
Clarence E. Cronkite, Senior Warden;
W. H. Fischer, Past Master;
W. D. Gill, Past Master.
La Puente ________________ N o. 446.... G. E. Cross, Past Master;
Hurl.son W. Rowland, Representative.
Torrance ________________ No. 447 .... Ralph L. Dinger, Master;
Richard S. Jenkins, Senior Warden.
Mt. Diablo. _____________ No. 448.... John A. Kasch, Master;
E. A. Palmer, Past Master.
Park -------·---··-----------No. 449 .... Foster G. Dyer, Master;
Carl A. Allen, Senior Warden;
Albert W. Stokes, Junior Warden;
F. R. Jackson, Past Master;
E. B. Power, Past Master;
A. H. Wi'de, Past Master.
Van Nuys __ ,_____________ No. 450.... J. A. Bailey, Past Master and Representative.
Montebe"lo ----·-···---No. 45 '---- F. D. Ashleigh, Representative.
San PasquaL _________ No. 452.... A. B. Cadman, Past Master and Represen:
tative.
Bethlehem ______ ,, ______ No.453 .... Hayes P. Speakman, Master.·
Charles W. Green, Senior Warden;
Daniel C. Farnham, Junior Warden;
C. F. Bovee, Past Master; ·
C. K. Harper, Past Mastc1.
Crocker ·--·--------------No. 454.... Thomas W. Swan, Senior Warden;
Alexander C. Anderson, Junior Warden;
T. Madgwick, Past Master;
A. McN. McKeown, Past Master;
G. Watson, Past Master.

(;olden West--------··No. 455 .... Merton M. Hall, M~ster;
Lewis H. Colen, Senior Warden ;
Frank M. McNulty, Junior Warden;
G.· R. Brockmann, Past Master;
G. E. Chapin, Past Master;
E. M. Hundley, Past Master;
A. L. W. Zillmer, Past Master.
lfamuna ··------·-----·-··-No. 457 .... Isaac J. Williams, Master.
Lienry S. Orme ______ No. 458-... Frederick C. Warner, Master;
R. G. Kies'.ing, Past Master.
Hiverbank ·----·-··--·-·No. 459 .... ';eorge M. Shootman, Master;
J. A. Brackett, Past Master.
Mount Oso,, ____________ No. 460.... 0tis W. Van Volkenburg, Master;
Clarence 0. Aitz, Senior Warden;
Allan R. Powers, Junior Warden;
F. H. Westlake, Past Master.
Argonaut ··----···· .. -·No. 461.... James W. Strawn, Master;
Joseph A. Blackford, Senior Warden ;
Hiram A. Lorenzen, Junior Warden.
Paul Revere ............ No. 462.... Philip Werner, Master;
·
Leonard S. Leavy, Senior Warden;
W. I. Kohnke, Senior Warden;
L. T. Cranz, Past Master;
W. A. Gerder, Past Master.
Morgan Hill _______ ,__ No. 463 .... R. K. Patchell, Representative.
Alta Vista .............. No. 464.... James G. Marshall, Master;
Herman Weinberger, Senior Warden;
Clifford W. Moody, Junior Warden;
W. C. Elliott, Past Master.
Center _________ ........... No. 465 .... Howard B. Dor'.and, Senior Warden;
G. C. Thomas, Past Master.
Libertas ----··-------· .... No. 4fi6.... James R. Dibble, Master;
Howard C. Yates, Senior Warden ;
Frank A. Easton, Junior Warden.
Culver City............ No. 467...• Charles L. W. Vocke, Master;
Calvin A. White, Senior Warden;
C. E. Shillito, Past Master;
Albert W. Mayer, Past Master.
Rockridge ~----·---·-- ... No. 468.... Frank L. Wilson, Master;
Wm.· F. Farmer, Senior Warden;
W. W. Shea, Past Master.
Yorna Linda .......... No. 469.... Wm. C. Fricke, Jr., Master;
J: W. Newell, Past Master.

225

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lincoln .................... No. 470.... Robert A. Peabody, Master;
Chas. Holloway, Jr., Senior Warden;
Wm. McG. Shimmon, Junior Warden;
James C. Wilder, Past Master;
Arthur Joel, Past Master.
Delta ...................... No. 471....Parke E. Grady, Master.
Maui ........................No. 472.... Thomas J . Baker, Representative.
Blythe ...................... No. 473.... Henry ·A. Dolge, Junior Warden.
Victory ....................No. 474.... Wi?liam E. Shipley, Master and Past
Master;
Harry C. Moore, Senior Ward en ;
George L. Halek, Junior Warden.
America .................. U. D .... Lewis Cruickshan, Master;
Joseph M. Baker, Senior Warden;
Charles E. Wright, Junior Warden.
Coachella ................ U. D .... Merton C. Cawthon, Master;
Charles B. Jones, Senior Ward en.
Temblor .................. U. D .... W. T. Aitken, Master.
Thousand Oaks...... U. D .... Benj. H. Pratt, Master;
Joseph C. Clayworth, Senior Warden;
William J . Morrison, JuniOr Warden.
Go!den Rule ............ U. D ....Albert E. Sandbo, Master.
Fellowship .............. U. D ....John F. A. Maguire, Master;
James H. Rathberg, Senior Warden;
Emil P. Ziegler, Junior Warden.
Mt. Davidson........'.. U. D .... Henry J. Brunnier, Master ;
Arthur H. White, Senior Warden;
Lewis C. .Weisbach, Junior Warden.
Clarence F. Smith.. U. D .... Eben Ingram, Master.
Bell .......................... U . D .... Charles E. Wickham, Master.
Albert Pike .............. U . D.'... Charles S. Walton, Master;
Dudley M. Dorman, Senior Warden.·
Chowchilla .............. U. D .... Gustave M. Eastman, Master.
Caledonia ................ U. D .... Benj. B. Thomas, Master.
Vallejo .................... U. D .... Harry L. Michael, Master.
Patterson ................ U. D .... W. R. Binney, Representative.
East Bay.................. U. D .... Edgar R. Nash, Master ;
Fred H. Van Tasse!!, Senior Warden;
Alonzo C. Shurtz, Junior Warden;
Wm. L. Wood, Representative.
Corcoran ................ U. D .... S. M. Barber, Master;
· J. E. Martin, Senior Warden;
]; C. Stewart, Junior Warden.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

221

Woodstock ............ U. D .... Amos V. Mollart, Master;
Charles 0 . Silvertsen, Senior Warden;
Frederick A. Frisuis, Junior Warden.
Carvanza ................ U. D .... Herbert H . Cox, Master;
Nathaniel M. Hill, Senior Warden;
William E. Bridge, Junior Warden.
Atascadero ............ U. D .... Wm. M. Crilley, Master;
··Winfield ·A. Scott, Senior Warden;
Frank L. Koch, Junior Warden.
Acorn ...................... U. D .... John F. Stewart, Master;
Chas. M. Herkenham, Senior Warden;
Irvin L. Grader, Junior Warden.

The report was adopted.

PETITION OF ACACIA LODGE TO WORK IN
GERMAN
To the M .'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
The petition of Acacia Lodge No. 438, F . & A. M., of Los
Angeles, California, respectfully shows:
That Acacia Lodge No. 438, F. & A. M., was o rganized under
the name of Germania Lodge No. 438, and was granted its charter
October 14, 1913. That at the time said charter was granted the
right to use the German language in its meetings and in conferring the degrees was also granted to the then Germania Lodge.
That its original membership was twenty-four and that o n
Octob er 7, 1918, it had about eighty members.
That in the stated meeting held by the then Germania Lodge
on September 2, 1918, two motions were presented for adoption :
one, that the name of the Lodge be chan ged, and the other, that
the language used by the Lodge in its meetings and in conferring
the degrees should, for the time being, be the English language.
That both of said motions were then and there defeated.
That at t he stated meeting held October 7, 1918, said motioris
were taken into reconsideration and finally unanimously adopted,
the name of the Lodge being changed to "Acacia Lodge No. 438,
F. & A. M."
That said changes were made on account of the war then
raging between the United States and Germany and because strong
pressure was brought upon your petitioners by members of the
Masonic Fraternity other than those belonging to the then
Germania Lodge.

228

PROCEEDINGS OJ;' THE

That your petitioner desires to again us'e the German language
in its meetings and in conferring the degrees for the following
reasons: ·
I. The Lodge was originally organized by people of German
birth or origin. They in turn initiated, passed and raised men of
German birth or origin, who became members of the then Germania Lodge solely for the reason that they could then be taught
Masonic principles and have Masonic intercourse in the language
with which they were most familiar. Since your petitioners have
adopted the exclusive use of the English language the attendance
has fallen off, because most of the members do not sufficiently
master the language to freely converse in the same, and, what is
more disastrous, to properly work and give the degrees in the
same. As a consequence it has been extremely difficult to persuade
members to take offices and assist in the work and the work itself
is not performed as it should be.
2. The change was made under an extreme pressure from
the outside and under the belief that in case the change was not
made voluntarily, this Worshipful Body would force us to take
the same.
3. It would be inequitable to refuse the request of Acacia
Lodge and to permit other foreign-speaking Lodges to continue
to hold their meetings and give the degrees and lectures in their
respective lang.uages.
4. When the change was made from German to English, it
. was in the mind of all members of Acacia Lodge that said change
was to be temporary only, and not permanent.
5. That such a change would not only benefit Acacia Lodge
alone, but the Fraternity at large, for its doctrines and principles
could then be thought in a language which the members of the
former thoroughly understand; thereby making them better
Masons and more contented than they have been heretofore. For,
after all, contented people make good citizens, something this great
_commonwealth sorely needs at the present time. And the exclusive
use of the English language does not necessarily make ·one a
contented American. It is more a question of fundamentals, such
as economies, and, in our case, tolerance, because in ninety-nine
cases out of one hundred we of German birth came to this country
and became citizens thereof on account of either unfavorable
economic conditions in Germany or on account of intolerance hy
the then imperialistic government of our political tendencies.
Wherefore Acacia Lodge No. 438, your petitioner herein, asl; s
that it be granted the privilege to conduct .all of its meetings and

GitAND LODGE OF CALH'ORNlA

229

to confer all of the degrees ol Masonry in the German language.
Dated September 6, 1920.
Respectfully submitted,
ACACIA LoDGE No. 438, F. & A. M.
By KARL L. RATZJ!R, Master.

Referred to the Committee on General Policy and
Purposes.

PETITION FOR CONCURRENT JURISDICTION·
Eden Lodge No. 113 presented the following petition:
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
At a stated meeting of Eden L odge No. 113, held on October
4, 1920, it was regularly moved and carried that E den Lodge ask
the Grand L odge to grant Eden Lodge concurrent j urisdiction
with the Lodges of the city of Oakland.
In explanation of this request, we beg to say that at the time
the city of Oakland annexed all of the territory lying between
Fruitvale and San Leandro, E den Lodge auto matically lost jurisdiction over about one-half of its original territory. About onehalf of the petitions now received by Eden Lodge come from this
territory, and the greater number of these petitioners give as their
reasons for applying to Eden Lodge that all of their business and
social relations are with San Leandro.
With out exception these petitioners have been freely granted
waivers of jurisdiction by the Oakland Lodges, as the · fraternal
relations between Eden Lodge and the vario us Oakland Lodges
have always been m ost pleasant and harmonious.
In view of the circumstances, we trust that our application will
meet with y our favorable approval, i}S this will do a way with the
necessity of the continual asking for waivers of 'jurisdiction.
This matter has been taken up with the various Lodges of
Oakland and we are led to believe there is n o · objection on their
part to Eden Lodge making this application.
...
By order of the Lodge.
· '
GEO. J. HELMS, Secretary.

The above was indorsed by the Grand Master as · approved, and was accompanied by a written ''c onsent from
Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Referred to the Com mittee on
Jurisprudence.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

230

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

231

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ENDOWMENT
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
.
W
the members of your Endowment Committee of the
Homes of California, appointed by the
.a:
the close of the last Grand Lodge, beg to report t.h~tt. m ~cco; ~:;n
.
.
.
with
suggestion
o f the Grand Master our activ1 ies av
exceedingly limited this year.
I n t h e repor t Of the Endowment Committee, submitted
at· the
h
last Grand Lodge meeting, the following paragrap appear:~
"Our Grand T(easurer, Brother Filmer, ·under date
S eptem b er 20, 1919• advised that the status of the Endowment ~und on that date was as follows: 35 387.83
Cash m Bank ................................................ ::$219,003.86
Securities ...................................................... _ _• _ _

Mason~~

Gra~d Mas~er

. Total ..:..................................................,..$254,391.69"
The Grand Treasurer advises the Permanent Endowme~t ~~~d
of the Masonic Homes of Californ_ia, as of . date July 3 •
•
11

~a:~ !: ~:~~. August I, 19i9....................................................$ 35,621.42

Composition of Endowment Fund
Cash in Humboldt Savings Bank ..................•...$ 4,657.40
Cash to be deposited............................................ 2,081.38

4Yz % City of Santa Barbara Imp. Bonds ..... .
4Yz % City of Santa Barbara Water Bonds ... .
6 % City of Uplands Bonds ............................
5 % Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. Bonds................
4Yz % San Francisco Hetch Hetchy Bonds ....
5 % City of Richmond Bonds ........................
5 % City and County of San Francisco..... .
5 % City of Ashland Bonds............................
5 % Cal. Gas & Electric Co. Bonds..............
3Yz % U.S. First Liberty Loan Bonds ............ 1,050.00
474 % U.S. First Converted Liberty Bo nds.. 11,300.00
4 % U.S. Second Liberty Loan Bonds........
1,000.00
474 % U . S. Second Converted Liberty Loan 67,850.00
474% U . S. Third Liberty Loan Bonds .......... 48,450.00
4% % U.S. Fourth Liberty Loan Bonds ........ 19,850.00
4:Y.I % U. S. Fifth Liberty Loan Bonds ............ 58,950.00

Receipts
.
28,549.93
Donations
..................................,..............:...............$ 45
800.00
Building Fund, Note Paid....................................
1'000 00
• ·
C.ity o f S an t a Barbara Bond redeemed............
6,666.25
Bequests ···:··············:···············································
1 372.45
Sundry Receipt~······················································_ _•_ _

Total Receipts ...............................................................,...._83,388.63
_ __
$119,010.05
Total A vai·1 a bl e...................:···················...............................
··

Disbursements
$50,000 Second Lib_e rty Loan Bonds................$ 1~·~~·~
45,000 Third Liberty Loan Bondds..................
8•987.50
10,000 Fourth Liberty Loan Bon s................
• .
Interest received in the years 1917, 1918 and
1919 paid to Maintenance Fund................ 13,186.88

Total Disbursements ............................................................$112,271.27
Balance ························································..··.........................$ 6,738.78

Less discount on Bonds purchased..................

$ 6,738.78
4,000.00
11,287.50
3,125.00
16,000.00
12,000.00
5,000.00

2.000.00
9,000.00
10,000.00

$208,450.00
7,915.61
200,534.39

' Total Permanent Endowment Fund, July 31 , 1920....$279,685.67
Endowment Fund, July 31, 1920..............................................$279,685.67
Endowment Fund, September 20, 1919.................................. 254,391.69
Increase for the year ............................................................$ 25,293.98
The smallest since the campaign to build up the Endowment Fund
was instituted.
The inactivity of the co mmittee was caused by an interview
with th e Grand Lodge officers, who seemed to be o f the opinion
that our brethren were not i_n favor of drives, and that it was
inadvisable to vigorously carry on our usual effo rts for the increase
of the Permanent Endowment Fund for the present Maso nic year.
H o wever, it must be taken into serious consideration and the
matter definitely 1determined whether or not the Grand Lodge
will sanction the building up of an Endowment Fund of sufficient
importance to meet the ever increasing needs of the Masonic

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND J ,ono1~ OF CALIFORNIA

Homes, thereby eliminating the per capita tax now enforced by
resolution of this Grand Lodge. The Endowment Fund has
reached quite satisfactory proportions and can be very materially
increased each year by active, energetic effort and the co-operation
of the members of Grand Lodge.

have some real, practical idea re ard'
monuments which are b .
. g
mg these great Masonic
able executives compose:mr t~arr;d on so successfully under the
o
e rustees of the Masonic Homes.
Cordially and fraternally yours,

232

It appears that a very large majority of the Masonic Fraternity of this jurisdiction have no real idea as to what the Masonic
Homes are and what they are accomplishing, and it is practically
impossible for many of the brethren to visit our Home 'for the
elderly at Decoto, Alameda county, or the Home for the children
at Covina, Los Angeles county. Hence, by and with the consent
of the officers of the Grand Lodge, it was decided to have moving
picture films made of both Homes, and the same to be exhibited
in the Lodge rooms of the subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction.

The committee laid out a plan, dividing our jurisdiction into
zones, so that the films could pe moved from one Lodge room to
another without any very serious delay. It was anticipated that
when the pictures were shown in the various Lodge rooms, some
one would accompany them who would deliver an address on
the value and function of the Homes. However, acting under the
suggestion of our Grand Master, no action has been taken towards
exhibiting t~ese pictures until the meeting of the Grand Lodge,
when it· was decided that a pre-view of the films would be shown
to the members.
The pictures of the Covina Home were taken under the direction of the Endowment Committee l;>y the Robert Brunton Studios
of Lo·s Angeles, the present officers of which are members of the
Fraternity, and who performed all of the work, making no charge
of any kind for the service rendered. The pictures of the Decoto
Home were taken under the direction of the Trustees of the
Masonic Homes.
Your committee presents this rather unsatisfactory report,
feeling that we have accomplished very little-if anything-during
the year, and firmly of the opinion ' that the Grand Lodge . should
determine if the building-up work of the Endowment Fund should
be continued. The moving pictures are very instructive, and it
seems reasonable, and your committee recommends that these
films be displayed in every Lodge room in our jurisdiction, where
it is possible to do so, in order that the brethren generally will

233

MOTLEY H. FLINT
. ALONZO J. MONRO~
]OHN F. ELLISON ,
SJDNJW B. FORCE, ,
DRURY B. BUTUR

DUDLEY B. SA£LTZ~R,
HERBERT LEVY

0. L. GIBSON"
CHAS. E. GLIDDEN,

Adopted.

Endowment Commitiee
Masonic Homes of C~lifornia.

.LIMIT OF DEGREES PER MONTH
Past Master Shea, of Rockridge Lodge No 468 . t
.
, tn roduced a resolution proposin that
degrees shall be conferred byg a Lodnot .more than twelve
R f
d
ge in any one month
e erre to the Committee on Gen~ral Policy and p
,
urposes.
BALLOTING BY GROUPS
Past Master Plumb, of Charter Rock Lodge No 410
presented a resolution to pr 'd f
.
.
petitions. . Referred to the ~v1 e. or group balloting on
and p urposes.
omm1ttee on General Policy

RE.P ORT .OF THE COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS .
Past Master Edward E Co
h ·
: .tJ
.
.
nn, c airman of the Committee on Accounts, reported as follows.

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodg6 of California:
Your Committee on Accounts have the honor to report that
pursuant to constitutional requirements, we have met at the office
of the Grand Secretary on the first Saturday of each month, and
have audited all bills, claims and demands against the Grand Lodge
as were placed in the hands of the Grand Secretary.
EDWARD E. CONN, Committee.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON WAR FUND
To the M.'.W.' .Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on War Fund respectfully repo rt that pursuant to the ·order of Grand Lodge in October, 1919, and as
recommended by this committee, the ·sum of $55,000 was transferred to the Masonic Homes of California.
Grand Lodge last year ordered that the balance remaining in
the fund be administered according to the rules and regulations
relative thereto adopted in 1918, and pursuant thereto a number of
soldiers and their families ·r.eceived relief to the amount of
$920.58, and one reimbursement o f $100.00 was received.
The balance in the fund is now $5,619.56.
Your committee is of opinion that no further good can be .
accompli.shed by· any longer keeping this Wa r Fund as such, and
w.e recommend that the entire . balance be transfe1'red to the
Emergency Relief Fund.
WILLIAM RHOD:ES H:ERV:EY,
THOMAS J. BAKER,
.JOHN WHICHER,

Committee.

The report and recommendation were adopted.

GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL
A telegram from Past Grand Master Watres of Pennsylvania was read, in w hich it was earnestly requested that
this Grand Lodge make an appropriation fo r the George
Washington Meri10rial Association~ or at least appoint a
State Chairman to co-operate in the work. Referred to
the Committee on General Policy and Purposes.
BOY· SCOUTS OF AMERICA
R. W. Wi lliam A. Sherman, Junior Grand Warden,

235

introduced a resolution commending the Boy Scouts of
America, and it was referred to the Committee on General
Policy and Purposes.
.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON RETURNS·
Past Master Harry Wheeler, chairman of the Com~it­
tee on Returns of Lodges, presented the following report,
which, after amendment, was adopted:
To the M.' .W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns has examined the returns of the
subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction for the fiscal year ending
July 31, 1920.
It is most gratifying to note that the re turns fo r this year
show careful and painstaking work on the part of the officers
entrusted with this important duty.
With one exception they were in the hands of our Grand Secretary on time, and were substantially correct.
The returns of Loyalton Lodge No. 359 have not been received, and up to within a very few days the officers have failed
to respon d to repeated admonitions from o ur Grand Secretary.
On October 6th a letter was received from brother W. H. Duncan,
Master of the Lodg~, which reco unts their difficulties and bears
a promise of better compliance in future.
This condition confronts your committee. The officers of this
Lodge do not seem to have any conception of the responsibiHty
they assumed when they accepted office, nor do they exercise
common courtesy in answering letters from the Grand Secretary.
They show an apathy not to be tolerated. We are mi~dful of
the hard conditions that confront small Lodges situated in thinly
populated districts, but their delinquency is exasperating wlie~ . it
becomes a fixed . habit as it appears to be in this case.
·
However, in view of the difficult situation ·. ~o~fr.onting
Loyalton Lodge and of the promises contained in the letter. fr.om
t~e. Mas~er, we recommend that Loyalton Lodge be given a
limited time to jorward the returns and dues to the G~and
Secretary.

237

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of the
which the s.e ve.ral Lodges
The amounts for dues for
and
1920,
31,
July
jurlsdict'ion were indebted for the year ending
which have all been paid, except Loyalton Lodge, are as follows:
General
Fund.

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

$679.50
l
California
83.70
Western Star .... 2
366.50
Tehama ············-· 3
181.50
Benicia ···--······-·· 5
171.40
Tuolumne .......... 8
306.40
Corinthian :........ 9
538.10
San Jose ............ 10
234.10
Yount ················ 12
134.00
Nevada ·············· 13
·128.60
Temple ·············· 14
207.40
Eureka ., ............ 16
195.60
Parfaite Union .. 17
25.20
Shade
18
Mountain
716.20
San Joaquin ........ 19
403.40
Washington ...... 20
321.25
Hawaiian · .......... 21
825.50
Occidental ········ 22
148.30
Madison ............ 23 .
72.40
Mariposa ....., ..".... 24
54.00
Georgetown ······ 25
191.40
Palmyra ············ 26
87.70
Trinity ................ 27
760.30
Golden Gate ...... 30
68.70
Gold Hill ............ 32
46.10
Ophir, .................. 33
San .. J)iego .......... 35 .. 662.70
St. John~s-.......... 37 . . 139.60
Santa Ci:ui.......... 38 ., ,·. 27.L60
Sacramento ·-. ..... 40 · . . 483.70
155.50
Martinez ....,.. ,..... 41
819.30
Los A11gel~~······: 42
37.30
Hiram .....,......:•... 43
609.20
Mount Moriah .. 44
86.20
Crescent ...: ........ 45
53.30
Texas ·················· 46
36.90
F 0 rbestown ······ so
80.30
Illinois town ······ 51
144.10
5uisun ················ 55
39.00
Volcano ·············· 56

Home
Building
Fund.

Allowed
Total.

Representatives.

$380.00
$312.50
$625.00
$29.80
46.50
93.00
7.00
160.00
152.50
305.00
2.60
100.00
72.50
145.00
15.10
120.00
78.00
156.00
16.85
360.00
123.00
246.00
3.75
420.00
229.50
459.00
3.75
120.00
99.50
199.00
15.80
20.00
65.00
130.00
15.10
20.00
57.00 .
11'4.00
9.85
140.00
88.00
176.00
200.00
92.00
184.00
39.35
14.00
28.00
6.60
600.00
239.00
478.00
7.00
280.00
138.00
276.00
240.00
173.50
347.00
520.00
347.50
695.00
15.40
60.00
63.50
127.00
33.30
40.00
28.00
56.00
15.85
25.00
50.00
12.70
20.00
93.00
186.00
40 .50
36.50
73.00
480.00
313.50
627.00
9.20
40,00
31.50
63.00
21.05
24.50
49.00
51.65
340.00
261.50
523.00
39.65
120.00
62:00
124.00
7.00
80.00
127
-00
254.00
7.00
38000
166.50
333.00
2.70
200.00
57.50
.
115.00
46.50
68(),00
318.50
637.00
12.05
40.00
13.50
27.00
58000 .
224.00.
448.00
51.30
60.00
39.00
78.00
685
18.50
37.00
40.00
15.50
31.00
11.80
20.00
38.50
77.00
3.90
80.00
54.50
109.00
19.75
60.00
15.00
30.00
o o oOo H O

Santa Rosa ........ 57
Union ················ 58
Gravel Range .... 59
Plumas ·············· 60
Live Oak ............ 61
Natoma ·············· 64
Amador .............. 65
Forest ················ 66
Morning Star .... 68
Enterprise ........ 70
Bear Mountain .. 76
Calaveras ·········· 78
Humboldt ........ 79
Ione ···················· 80
Yolo ···················· 81
Vesper ................ 84
Naval ........ :.......... 87
Rose's Bar .......... 89
North Star .......... 91
St. Helena .......... ·93
Henry Clay........ 95
Howard ·············· 96
J efferson ············ 97
Hornitos ............ 98
Yosemite ............ 99
Clay .................... 101
Oroville ........... .103
Lexington .......... 104
Arcata ............... .106
Pajaro ................ 110
Chico ................. .111
Summit .....;.. ..,_. ... 112
Eden .................. 113
Concord ...... :.....117
Clinton .............. 119
Fidelity .............. 120
Alamo ............... .122
Sotoyome .......... 123
Table Mountain 124
La Fayette ......... .126
Hermann ......... .127
Visalia ................ 128

General
Fund.

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

. Home
Building
Fund.

318.50
472.50
27.30
92.80
1,150.70
109.60
68.90
44.40
502.70
197.40
83.50
107.80
423 .70
56.80
60.90
161.50
685.10
38.80
41.80
118.70
46.80
100.70
30.90
75.10
194.30
66.90
261.70
123.80
216.00
216.20
380.90
53.10
176.30
187.30
51.30
634.20
133.00
270.20
64.10
189.00
221.60
267.50

265.00
355.00
27.00
72.00
903.00
94.00
71.00
46.00
383.00
166.00
85.00
112.00
373.00
52.00
51.00
155.00
529.00
42.00
42.00
93.00
52.00
93.00
31.00
45.00 .
147.00
61.00
223.00
102.00
150.00
148.00
261.00
39.00
147.00
147.00
47.00
598.00
100.00
228.00
59.00
150.00
204.00
185.00

132.50
177.50
13,50
36.00
451.50
47 .00
35.50
23.00
191.50
83.00
42.50
56.00
186.50
26.00
25.50
77.50
264.50
21.00
21.00
46.50
26.00
46.50
15,50
22.50
73.50
30.50
111.50
51.00
75.00
74.00

iJo.so

19.50
73.50
73.50
23.50
299.00
50.00
114.00
29.50
75.00
102.00
92.50

Allowed
Represen·
Total.

tatives.· ·

280.00
320.00

5.95
7.00

20.00
800.00
100.00
40.00

32.50

180.00
140.00
40.00
40.00
340.00
20.00
80.00
100.00
440.00

140.00
140.-00
40.00
100.00
20.00
120.00
100.00
280.00
400.00
400.00
20.00
140.00
180.00

8.80
15.05
30.80
6.60
10.60
17.30
15.00
31.10
11.15
7.10
15.55
2.60
14.85
54.90
7.80
15.0S
39.65
36.90
27.05
17.30
12.95
12.45
38.00
31.90
7.65
13.70
1.15
7.00

29.40
280.00
40.00
120.00
. 20.00
220.UO
120.00
240.00

3.85
5.30
4.80
26.40

239

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General
Fund.

Nicolaus .·...........129
Woodbridge ......131
Sincerity ............132
Vacaville ............134
. Valley , ...............135
Pacific --··--·---······136
Crockett -----···----139
Curtis .,................ 140
Grafton ····----··--~-141
Franklin .···--·---·-.1 43
Oriental ............. .144
Vitruvius ............145
Abell ---·····'······--.146
Eel River·............147
Lassen ................ 149
Molino ................150
Woodland ........156
Keystone .......... 161
Harmony ..........164
Excelsior .......... 166
Alameda ............167
Redwood City.. 168
Mission ..............169
Elk Grove..........173
Drytown ............ 174
Antioch ..............175
Phoenix --·-····---.178
Mendocino ........ 179
Petaluma :.........180
Russian River ....181
Arbuckle ............182
Clear Lake ..........183
Sierra Valley ....184
Claiborne ..........185
Evening Star.... 186
Keith ..'................187
Oakland ............188
Northern Light190
Marin ~ .................191
Santa Barbara ..192
Ferndale ............193
Mountain View 194

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

78.00
86.20
95.00
101.50
110.00
176.00
137.00
175.30
53.00
55.70
728.00
818.20
570.00
732.00
54.00
69.60
47.00
69.30
79.00
83.10
410.00
465.00
64.00
63.60
130.00
127.00
137.00
155.30
127.00
134.30
80.00
99.00
183.00
206.70
31.00
44.90
12.00
10.80
519.00
619.10
119.00
127.10
187.00
236.30
906.00
924.40
75.00
86..'iO
25.00
26.50
137.00
183.30
360.00
509.00
142.00
160.80
237.00
Z-61.30
99.00
106.10
64.00
101.60
29.00
27.10
34.00
33.60
54.00
59.60
36.00
41.40
143.00
225.70
781.00
973.90
77.00
100.30
297.00
351.30
306.30 • 237.00
109.00
146.10
148.00
196.20

.

Home
Building
Fund.

39.00
47.50
55.00
68.50
26.50
364.00
285.00
27.00
23.50
39.50
205.00
32.00
65.00
68.50
63.50
40.00
91.50
15.50
6.00
259.50 .
59.50
93.50
453.00
37.50
12.50
68.50
180.00
71.00
118.50
49.50
32.00
14.50
17.00
27.00
18.00
71.50
390.50
38.50
148.50
118.50
54.50
74.00

Total.

Allowed
Represen·
tatives.

20.00
80.00
120.00
140.00
20.00
280.00
600.00
60.00
80.00
80.00
300.00
20.00
60.00
60.00
80.00
40.00
200.00
80.00
100.00
60.00
80.00
420.00
20.00
80.00
420.00
.80.00
140.00
20.00
40.00

60.00
20.00
760.00
80.00
240.00
80.00
120.00
240.00

10.10
7.80
5.20
7.65

6.75
7.50
6.90
23.30
8.95
29.05
49.10
14.65
8.95

2.60
2.10
9.20
4.30
51.05
20.80
3.15
4.90
12.85
27.55
23.40
45.15
6.10
29.45
.85
35.10
40.90
2.65

Buckeye ............ 195
San Simeon ........196
Wilmington ...... 198
Hartley ..............199
Truckee ..............200
Silveyville _________ .201
Pentalpha ..........202 .
Confidence ........203
Salinas ................204
Olivet -·····:···········205
Stanislaus ..........206
Anaheim ............207
Rio Vista............208
King David's ......209
Friendship ........ 210
San Beni tb ..........211
S.San Francisco 212
S. Buenaventura 214
Oak Grove ..........215
Doric ..................216
Monterey ..........217
Mosaic ................218
Speranza Ital... ..219
Downey ..............220
Tnyo ...........•......... 221
Roseville ............222
Rakers field ........224
Brooklyn ............225
San Ma teo ..........226
Athens ................ 228
Solano ................229
North Butte ......230
Cove lo ··------······-.231
Janesville ..........232
Calistoga ............233
Hope ..................234
Surprise Valley..235
Hill's Ferry........236
Guadalupe ..........237
Colusa ................240
Santa Ana ............241
Magnolia ............242

General
l'und.

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

Home
Building
Fund.

91.80
42.00
I 01.70
146.10
106.90
100.50
744.90
34.40
221.50
132.20
280.40
283.70
72.30
294.40
357.90
128.10
287.70
282.70
579.40
649.70
140.30
105.30
375.50
135.10
83.10
259.90
433.20
637.20
236.10
87.60
583.60
96.40
37.20
48.80
84.60
120.10
79.60
88.40
55.00
136.20
424.70
203.30

82.00
40.00
83.00
119.00
111.00
85.00
571.00
26.00
175.00
108.00
206.00
193.00
67.00
226.00
291.00
109.00
233.00
183.00
496.00
553.00
117.00
97.00
265.00
99.00
69.00
201.00
358.00
518.00
169.00
84.00
414.00
96.00
38.00
52.00
84.00
79.00
64.00
76.00
60.00
108.00
393.00
147.00

41.00
20.00
41.50
59.50
55.50
42.50
285.50
13.00
87.50
54.00
103.00
96.50
33.50
113.00
145.50
54.50
116.50
91.50
248.00
276.50
58.50
48.50
132.50
49.50
34.50
100.50
179.00
259.00
84.50
42.00
207.00
48.00
19.00
26.00
42.00
39.50
32.00
38.00
30.00
54.00
196.50
73.50

Total.

60.00
40.00
60.00
240.00
20.00
20.00
580-00
40.00
160.00
. 20.00
220.00
440.00
20.00
280.00
260.00
60.00
360.00
40.00
360.00
420.00
40.00
40.00
780.00
80.00
80.00
160.00
260.00
380.00
200.00
340.00

140.00
60.00
40.00
20.00
300.00
300.00
100.00

Allowed
Represen·
tatives.

6.50
30.90
48.10
13.35

46.50
8.45
8.95
14.00
8.95
48.60
6.90
25.90
3.75
7.10
40.55

9.70
3.75
47.45
57.15
8.40
31.00
1.40
. 5.95
2.60
11.15
16.40
5.85
30.15
58.20
9.45
21.25
10.50
49.10
35.10

240

General
Fund.

Eucalyptus ........ 243
Alcatraz ............ 244
Laurel ................ 24S
Pomona ............246
Fresno ................247
Alturas ............... 248
A din ...............,....2SO.
Landmark ......... .2S3
Reading ........ ,.....254
Welcome ..........25S
Lodi ....................2S6
Penrhyn ............ 2S8
Evergreen ..........ZS9
King Solomon's 260
Tu.scan ................261
Lompoc ..............262
Hesperian ..........264
Orland ................265
North East........266
Galt ................,..... 267
Durant ................268
Olive Branch ......269
Snow Mountain 271
Pasadena ............272
Anchor .............. 273
Arroyo ................274
Oakdale ..............275
Selma ..................277
Southern Calif ... 278
Hanford ............279
Madera ..............280
Mount Shasta.... 281
Callayomi .., .......282
South West... .....283
San Miguel........28S
Paso Robles ...... 286
Winnedumah .... 287
Maxwell ............288
Elsinore ............ 289
East Gate ............290
Santa Paula ........ 291
LO!\ Gatos .......... 292

188.00
679.30
22S.80
3S3.10
488.90
114.40
49.60
73.70
148.SO
lOS.00
230.40
90.40
392.30
914.60
89.70
162.80
234.20
118.80
47.20
69.60
774.10
208.70
44.90
S63.SO
92.00
82.60
98.30
218.20
661.90
247.60
l Sl .00
78.70
36.00
23S.10
93.70
104.30
16S.OO
90.60
108.20
1,039.10
265.00
15S.90

· Home
Home
Maintenance Building
•Fund.
Fund.

140.00
Sl7.00
1S2.00
329.00
421.00
86.00
44.00 .
63.00
13S.OO
90.00
216.00
86.00
347.00
714.00
63.00
132.00
218.00
102.00
48.00
S4.00
SS9.00
183.00
41.00
475.00
80.00
64.00
87.00
178.00 .
661.00
194.00
130.00
63.00
40.00
169.00
83.00
77.00
lS0.00
74.00
78.00
839.00
190.00
141.00

70.00
2S8.SO
76.00
164.SO
210.SO
43.00
22.00
31.SO
67.SO
4S.OO
· 108.00
43.00
173.50 .
3S7.00
31.50
66.00
109.00
Sl.00
. 24.00
27.00
279.SO
91.SO
20.SO
237.SO
40.00
32.00
43.SO
89.00
330.SO
97.00
6S.OO
31.SO
20.00
84.SO
41.50
38.SO
75.00
37.00 .
39.00
419.SO
9S.OO
70.SO

241

GRAND LODGE O~' CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Allowed
Represen·
Total.

80.00
S60.00
320.00
180.00
160.00
40.00
40.00
40.00
80.00
140.00
60.00
40.00
660.00
140.00
160.00
200.00
120.00
20.00
40.00
700.00
320.00
20.00
300.00
20.00
20.00
. 20.00
60.00
300.00
260.00
40.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
100.00
20.00
40.00
380.00
180.00
80.00

tativc~.

1.70
10.90
49.20
22.SS
S2.20
62.20
7.90
24.7S
25.90
7.10
9.20
SI.OS
9.8S
30.8S
29.lS
54.90
8.30
26.0S
16.SO
47.SS
47.4S
30.25
9.20
23.8S
46.SO
2S.20
23.8S
9.85

SB.05
lS.80
16.60
63.45
10.50
Sl.10
46.50
41.8S
4.00

O range Grove .... 293
Traver ................ 294
Mt. Jackson ...... ,.29S
Silver Gate.... .-.....295
Dunsmuir ..........297
Liberty ..............299
Redlands ......:.....300
Ontario ..............301
Santa Lucia ......302
Porterville ........303
Reedley ..............304
Azusa ..................305
Ashlar ...........,....306
Santa Monica....3(17
Monrovia ..........308
Delano ................309
Sisson ................310
Los Banos ..........312
Tehachapi ..........313
Te mescal ..........314
Norwa lk ............315
Sanger ................316
Fallbrook ..........317
Emmanuel ........318
Hollenbeck ......319
South Gate ..........320
Alisa! ..................321
Al hambra ..........322
Whittier ............323
Corona ................324.
Consuelo ............325
Needles ..............326
Long Beach ......327
Redondo .............328
Vallee de France 329
Kilauea ..............330
Pacific Grove ....331
San Pedro ..........332
Alta ··········'·-·;.....333
Covina ................334
West Gate ..........33S
Fruitvale ...•........336

General
Fund.

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

Ho.m e
Building
Fund.

207.80
109.40
lS0.20
737.70
1S9.20
247.SO
31S.20
203.30
104.80
319.SO
117.20
132.10
200.60
208.30
160.20
1S6.60
96.40
9S.OO
18S.10
123.70
99.10
124.10
S2.40
77.10
l,6S6.60
8S7.00
99.30
357.10
349.60
S07.80
168.30
222.30
S62.SO
288.40
12S.10
163.SO
92.70
405.90
24.30
227.60
703.20
776.60

162.00
86.00
118.00
S63.00
128.00
20S.OO
268.00
167.00
.72.00
22S.OO
78.00
99.00
1S4.00
17S.OO
138.00
134.00
86.00
80.00
149.00
113.00
79.00
99.00
46.00
S9.00
1,194.00
760.00
87.00
289.00
244.00
432.00
117.00
167.00
46S.OO
206.00
109.00
186.00
73.00
321.00
27.00
184.00
S28.00
S24.00

81.00
43.00
S9.00
281.50
64.00
102.SO
134.00
83.SO
36.00
112.SO
39.00
49.SO
77.00
87.SO
69.00
67.00
43.00
40.00
74.SO
S6.SO
39.SO
49.SO
. 23.00
29.50
S97.00
380.00
43.SO
144.SO
122.00
216.00
S8.SO
83.SO
232.50
103.00
S4.SO
93.00
36.50
160.SO
13.50
92.00
264.00
262.00

Total.

80.00
60.00
160.00
260.00
220.00
120.00
300:00
20.00
60.00
320.00
40.00
60.00
60.00
160.00
120.00
120.00
20.00
40.00
60.00
60.00
100.00
120.00
180.00
1,400.00
440.00
40.00
240.00
300.00
320.00
60.00
20.00
S00.00
140.00
·100.00
120.00
60.00
480.00
120.00
360.00
880.00

Allowed
Represen·
tatives . .

49.10
24.2S
7.00
S7.6S
31.30
3.So
Sl.8S
49.6S
12.4S
28.00
24.SO
4S.2S
SI.OS
48.20
47.95
28.SO
32.45
11.00
38.00
S2.20
47.80
23.70
S6.40
11.40
46.SO
46.SO
3.2S
47.30
48.10
47.70
S6.70
74.SO
48.20
48.20
46.SO
9.85
48.20
48.50
46.SO
.4S

242

GRAND LODGE OF. CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General
·Fund.

Carquinez ..........337
156.50
San J acin to.'. ......338
183.30
Fullerton :..:.:......339
426.60
Oxnard .......:......341
271.10
San Fernando ....343
115.40
Starr King ..,.......344
521.20
Brentwood ........345
126.50
Palo Alto:....:......346
346.90
McKinley .......... 347
362.20
San Bernardino.. 348
374.90
Sequoia .....:........349
962.70
Palestine ............351
542.60
. 652.20
!:;unset ................352
Pinole ....'.....,......353
123.40
Presidio ..; ...........354
565.10
Hollywood ........355
899.30
Mill Valley'........356
342.80
Buena Pa~k........357
149.90
Golden State ......358
956.60
. Loyalton ...:.: ......359
San Francisco ....360
402.00
.Fort Bragg .. :.....36i
77.20 "
Charity ..............362 ·
110.80
': Berkeley .............363,
723.50
126.10' '
Willits ................365
L~s Palmas........366
476.60
South Pasadena 367
250.00
Unity ..................368
393.80
Ocean P~riL ......36Si
259.30
552.70
A~ity ......_. .._._. .......370,.,
Le Progres de
l'Ocea~ie ........371
247.75
Gardena ..............372
106.10
' V~teran ·........ :.....373
278.70
J ewe! .............."....374
179.70
Richmond' .~........375
726.80
Francis D.~ake ..376
127.30
· Artesia ........:.......377
108.40
Mizpah ::L.. :: ....378 · · 622.80
183.70
F illmore ...... ,.....379
Hu.ntington
. Beach ......; .......380
67.50

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

Home
Buildi1111
Fund.

Total.

115.00
57.50
127.00
63.50
304.00
152.00
209.00
104.50
106.00
53.00
378.0(I
189.00
105.00
52.50
291.00
145.50
258.00 • 129.00
331.00
165.50
743.00
371.50
414.00
207.00
508.00
254.00
116.00
58.00
419.00
209.50
617.00
308.50
272.00
136.00
101.00
50.50
342.00
684.00

180.00
120.00
280.00
200.00
120.00
460.00
20.00
220.00
400.00
140.00
760.00
420.00
600.00
60.00
240.00 '
1,080.00
280.00
120.00
1,000.00

330.00
78.00
102.00
505.00
109.00
422.00
200.00
292.00
217.00
423.00

165.00
39.00
51.00
252.50
54.50
211.00
100.00
146.00
108.50
211.50

280.00
40.00
620.00
140.00
36C:J:OO
220.00
480.00
200.00
340.00

221.00
89.00
203.00
123.00
502.00
107.00
96.oO·
482.00
.133.00

110.50
44.50
101.50
61 .50
251.00
53.50·
48.00
241.00
66.50

320.00
80.00
180.00
140.00
580.00
20.00
40.00
520.00
100.00

65.00

32.50

40.00

Allowed
Represen·
tatives.

2.35
54.95
48.50
41.35
54.35
4.90
2.45
1.30
51.05 .
46.50
46.50
1.70
47.20
48.35
46.50

17.35
4.15
10;90
22.55
47.55
45.95
48.20

. 47.55
47.80

.70
47.95
46.50
42.65
49.75

General
Fund.

· Oceanside ..........381
Highland Park..382
._ Orosi ..................383
Et Centro ............384
Dinuba .. ...... ,.......385
Coalinga ............387
Parnassus ..........388
Palos Verdes ....389
Imperial ............390
East Belt ..........391'
West Lake ..........392
Balder ................393
University ·..........394
Turlock ..............395
Apollo ................396
Rising Light......397
Fraternity ..........399
Burlingame ........400
Bay View.'...~ .......40i
Brawley, ..............402
Y erba Buena.... ..403
Glendora ............404
M.o neta ..............405
Burbank ............406
La Mesa..............407
Sierra Madre ......408
Honolulu ..........409
Charter Rock ....410
Perris ................. .411
Calexico ........... .412
Waucoba .. ~ .........413
Arlington ......... .414
Silver Trowel....41S
Lindsay ............. .416
Clovis ............... .417
Elysian ..............418
Upland ..............419
Kerman ............420
Inglewood ........421
Eagle Rock ........422
York .........~: .........423
Exeter ................424
Holtville ............425

Home
Home
Maintenance. Building
Fund.
Fund.

T otal.

Allowed
Represen·
tatives.

54.45
20.00
25.00
50.00
48.00
46.50
440.00
188.00
376.0\)
477.40
25.40
120.00
45.00
90.00
134.00
76.85
340.00
86.50
173.00
253.70
·24:90
140.00
83.50
225.30 ., 167.00
500.00
29.15
107.00
214.00
340.60
300.00
205.00
410.00
507.00
48:20
580.00
171.50
343.00
507.70
80.00
76.45
37.00
74.00
87.60
15.65
40.00
30.00
60.00
74.00
46.50
580.00
407.56
815.00
1,1 49.50
400.00
191.50
383.00
501.70
46.50
860.00
222.0Q
664.60 . 444.00
160.00
10.00
66.50
133.00
176.70
160.00
125.50
251.00
338.90
46.50
107.00
320.00
214.00
332.60
3.75
260.00
123.00
246.00
346.40
239.00 .
260.00
119.50
1.30
300.10
152.50
240.00
305.00
404.50
60.00
75.40
51.00
102.00
126.80
280.00
155.50
311.00
447.90
20.00
48.70
33.50
67.00
71.30
640.00
46.50
212.00
424.00
618.60
100.00
45.60
45.50
112.90
91.00
58.50
38.50
77.00
60.00
87.30
47.55
38.50
100.00
104.30
77.00
115.50
200.00
222.25
231.00
238.50 ;
960.00
477.00
623.30
53.20
38.00
76.00
96.40
340.00 .,., f7)5
121.00
60.50
174.90
39.00
56.10
19.50
20.00
64•.25
220.00 . . · 46.50
198.06
264.20
99.00 .
213.00
106.50.: · 160.QO~ '. · ,. 4§.5o
260.70
140:00 . ~ 27.20
86.00 .. 43.00
105.40
380.60.'.'''':' ,:23'.60
87.00
146.30
43.50 .
160.00 .
820.00· . 46.50
320.00
447.00
I 00.00
.49.75
43.00
86.00
94.40
28.00
40.QO
21.65
56.00
76.40
133.00
100.00
47.45
66.50 .
220.70
71.00
35.50
94.90
20.00
.46.50
86.00 . . 43.00 ... 60.00
47.45
122.40
96.00 ..... 48.1'.lO .
130.40
120.'00
27.?0
88.00
44.00
60.00
77.80
118.20

244

General
Fund.

Midway ..............426
Chino Valley..:... 427
San Dimas..........428
Pittsburg ......... .429
Mc Cloud ............430
Alpha ..................431
Hammonton ... .433
Maricopa .............434
Fairmont ..........435
Claremont ........436
· Lancaster ..........437
Acacia ................438
Tyrian .............,..439
Standard ............440
Coro nado ..........441
Blackmer ..........442
Schofield ............ 443
Carpinteria ......444
Wilshire ............445
La · Puente ..........446
Torrance ............447
Mt. Diablo......... .448
Pa.rk ....................449
Van Nuys ..........4SO
Montebello ......4Sl
San Pasquat........452
Bethl ehem ........ 4S3
Crocker ..............454
Golden West ......455
K ennett ............. .456
Ramona ............457
Henry S. ·arme .. 458
Riverbank , .........459
Mount Oso ........460
Argonaut ..........461
Pa11l Revere ......462
Morgan Hill... ...4..;3
Alt.a Vista ......,.. .. 464
Center ................465
I ibcrtas ............466
Culv er City........467
Rock ridge ..........468

GRAND L ODGE OF C ALIFORNIA

PROC EEDINGS OF THE

404.20
6S.OO
73.SO
92.90
91.70
491.00
87.00
149.70
SS7.20
101.00
144.30
8S.20
114.30
340.00
1M60
288.20
128.10
S0.10
478.00 .
74.90
139.90
122.20
468.40
12S.60
147.00
242.00
462.90
167.70
517.60
S3.70
127.90
563.20
88.50
1S3.40
318.80
70S.10
57.70
2S0.90
235.20
174.70
134.70
260.20

Home
Maintena nce
Fund.

228.00
S0.00
6S.OO
71.00
63.00 .
330.00
60.00
93.00
478.00
80.00
97.00
78.00
77.00
200.00
124.00
208.00
119.00
39.00
3SO.OO
61.00
81.00
78.00
336.00
94.00
90.00
140.00
2Sl.OO
103.00
324.00
53.00
101.00
328.00
65.00
106.00
182.00
419.00
33.00
131.00
118.00
103.00
63.00
1S8.00

Home
Duilding
Fund.

114.00
25.00
32.SO
35.SO
31.50
165.00
30.00
46.SO
239.00
40.00
48.50
39.00
38.SO
100.00
62.00
104.00
S9.50
19.SO
175.00
30.SO
40.50
39.00
168.00
47.00
45.00
70.00
125.50
Sl.50
162.00
26.50
so.so
164.00
32.50
53.00
91.00
209.50
16.50
6S.SO
59.00
51.50
31.50
79.00

Allo wed
T otal.

360.00
20.00
20.00
100.00
20.00
400.00
60.00
220.00
380.00
100.00
120.00
100.00
180.00
160.00
80.00
260.00
120.00
40.00
440.00
120.00
120.00
120.00
280.00
160.00
20.00
300.00
340.00
240.00
460.00

3S.7S
49.6S
48.85
3.90
33.55
1.30
12.35
5U.80

80.00
720.00
20.00
180.00
320.00

47.30
.46.50
8.SS
5.60

49.4.0
41.35
46.SO
7.6S
S7.45
S7.4S
39.2S
46.SO
48.10
47.80
3.SO
45.25
47.30
47.SS

Yorba Llnda......469
L inco ln .....::.......470
D elta ..................471
Maui ...........,......412
Blythe ................473
Vic to ry ..............474
A merica .......... U.D.
Coachella. ........ U.D.
Temblor ..........U.D .
ThousandOaksU.D.
Golden Rule .... U.D.
Fello wship .... U .D .
Mt. Dav idson ..U .D.
C. F . Smith ...... U.D.
Bell ,..........,......U.D.
Albe rt Pike ...... U.D.
Chowchilla .... U.D.
Caledo nia ...... U .D .
Vallejo ............ U.D.
P atterso n ........ U .D.
East Bay ..........U .D.
Corco ran ........ U.D.
Woo dstock .... U .D.
Garvan:ia ........ U .D.
Atascadero .... U.D.
Acorn .............. U .D .

H ome

H ome
Building
Fund.

97.40
56.00
269.ZO
128.00
319.10 ... 149.00
90.7S
97.00
76.10
49.00
77.00
223.39.
242.60
84.00
82.SO
35.00
69.00
t S2.1 0
121.20
58.00
78.90
41.00
74.90
41.00
88.90
51.00
lOS.90
51.00
S4 80
32.00
68.SO
35.00
22.00
25.80
37.30
27.00
90.60
34.00
ZS.SO
25.00
43.00
40.00
2S.SO
2S.OO
18.00
20.00
23.70
23.00
13.SO
15.00
20.70
23.00

28.00
64.00
74.50
. 48.50
24.50
38.50
42.00
17.50
34.50
29.00
20.50
2a.so
2S.SO
2S.SO
16.00
.1 7.50
11.00
13.50
17.00
12.SO
20.00
12.SO
10.00
11.50
7.50
11.SO

Mainte nance

Allowed
R epresen-

T qtal.

tatives.

120.00
280.00
420.00
40,00
40.00
320.00
460.00
380.00
780.00
520.00
360.00
360.00
380.00
460.00
220.00
320.00
60.00
140.00
800.00
40.00
60.00
80.00

49.10
6.60
69.70
46.50
58.20
36.40
3.7S

46.SO
47.50
46.50
22.9S
31.00
2.60
8.5S
19.7S

100.00

46.SO
19.90

Total ..................$98,179.00 $76,169.00 $38,084.50 $77,620.oO $9 220.00
• .• • "

760.00
80.00
260.00
360.00
300.00
180.00
200.00

Fund.

General
Fund.

Representatives.

245

5.30

.•

J,

Re capitulation of Total$:
General Fund.... ;........- ;..............................:.................................$ 98,179.00
Home Maintenance Fund .......:...................~............................ 76,169.00
· · Home Buildin·g- F u nd ..............,,;,:.,..:,..: ...:.:................ :.....;;........ 38,084.SO
H ome T ax Account.................................................................... 77,620.00
Total .........................................,.............;:........................:....$290,052.50
D ue fr om I. oyalton Lodge.......................................................
CHAS. A. BARNET,

22.SS
31.00
47.80

.. ..

. L. E. A,LT, . .
~: ~- Dll~$MORE, ..

C. H. W HEELER,

Committee.

246

GRAND LODGE OF CALII'ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PER CAPITA TAX FOR. THE HOMES
Past Master John F. West moved that the action of
yesterday whereby the per · capita: tax for ·the support of
the Masonic Homes was reduced from one dollar to thfrtyfive cents, as recommended in the Report of the Trustees.,
be re-considered. Motion lost.

247

unanimously approve and endorse the thrift work of the Government as herein stated, an"<l does pledge itself loyally to advocate,
ai_d .a nd advance the said work ; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be .sent to the
Secretary of each Masonic Lodge in California and that the. same
be read. at the Lodge meeting· next following its receipt.

ANNUAL ORATION
THRIFT STAMPS
The following resolution was introduced at the request
of Br~ther Clovis Farnsworth, a!ld adopte~ as r'e ad:
!

Whereas, The soundest thought and clearest vision of the
.Nation recognize the urgent need and wisdom of honest work,
systematic saving, and sane spending; :and
Whereas, The United States Government, acting through that
branch of its Treasury Department known as the Government
Savings Organization, has undertaken a broad educational work
for promoting thrift among its people, thereby seeking to minimize the extravagance and waste so widely and alarmingly ptevalent, and to strengthen the quality; · magnify the meaning, and
· emphasize the priv.ilege of American citizenship, too often
unappreciated or misunderstood ; and
Whereas, As a simple, safe, concret~ and convenient means for
popular investment of money saved through thrift the Government strongly urges the general purchase of its Thrift Stamps,
War Savings Stamps, and Treasury Certificates; and
. Whe~~a~, Th~ Ord~r of Fre~ ·;nd Acce~ted Masons has long
and steadily shown a keen and genuine interest in the edu.cat_ional
dev.elopment and moral molding of the children. and . youth · of
our country who are now potentially_and soon will , be' practically
..its citizens, forecasting its future, din:cting _ its ..'rlestinies: and
managing its affairs by force . and leverage ,pf. ·:that: intlividual and
n.ational will-power vital to the stability and endurance of the
State, .,. a power best trained and braced for its titanic task by
practice of the virtue of thrift; and . , ... , r . :. . .
Whereas, The Masonic Institution has ever been among the
foremost in responding to the call of country in the day of necessity; be it
Resolved, · That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons in convention assembled in the city of San Francisco,
Ca!Hormia, on the 13th day of October, 1920, does heartily and

W. Albert E. Boynton, Past Master of Oroville Lodge
No. 103, then delivered his ·a nnual oration, as follows: '
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge :

In keeping with 'our custom, we have gathered to discuss the
principles . and ideals
Masonry, and to learn something of the
history and achievements of our Institution.

of

It is, or' course, impossible within the time allotted to trace the
his't ory of Masonry o'r . even partially enumerate its achievements.
Inste;id of _appealing to your emotions and rejoicing with you this
morning over the past glories and deeds of our Order, I would rather
appeal to your intet ·ect, for this is a time when our thoughts must be
true if our acts are to be right.

The world is in a state of flux ; forms of government are undergoing
radical changes ; the habits and practices of men are being thrown, by
the hurricane of mental turmoil, from their beafen paths. Our future
course must, therefore, b.e guid~d by steady hands, and steered by
the compass of reason.
"Masonry is a permanent ·institution, and although empires and
kingdoms have been overthrown, and changes and revolutions have
taken pla~e in governments and in society since their beginning, yet
Masonry still li.ves-yea, it has today a living, vital existence, and
will continue to exist as long· as time shall be."
The development of }rfasonry is the development of humanity,
for no organization can be greater than the individuals who constitute
'it.·· It was not intended that we should be separate private persons.
but rather parts making up the great body of society. The wonderful
achievements of Masonry in the past are the result of the· cooperation
and united efforts of all its members, and what Masonry achieves in
·the future will · depend almost · entirely' upon the aims and deeds of
individual · members, · acting not as single units, but collectively and
with a common purpose.
·

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALU.'OHNIA

Therefore, in working for the continued success of our great
Order, I believe that the causes which . will contribute to that success
are the same causes that make possible the deyelopment of the highest
order of individual achievement, the very foun.d ation stones of which
are the hom6, the school, industry and individual character.
As I have said, the wor!d is in flux, and ,if we would come
through tlie h'eat of passion ' and the destroying ' vapors 10{ h'ate' and
venom that have made the world a seething caldron, we must fight
to maintafo the fundamental princip'es of virtue, honesty, industry and
simplicity, which form the basis for all the real developments and
achievements of man. These principles are best incukated in the home
and taught in the school, and they can best be practiced and exemplified in real and honest work, and thereby there will be developed that
character of i;1dividuals that ~i I not only sustain us through the
critical period of our country's history, but will also sustain· and ·
maintain the truest and best ideals of Masonry.
The home is the workshop of character_ If. we take a tiny plant
and twist or bend its stem and maintain this pressure until. that plant
reaches maturity, it will be dwarfed and crooked forever. So it is
with children, for it is mainly in the home that the heart is opened,
the hahits are formed, the intellect is awakened, and character is
mou 'ded for good or for evil.
The social life of a nation reflects that of the home, for it is there
that the individuals who afterward form society, are dealt with m
detail and fashioned one by one.
The · home may be regarded as the most influential school of
civi izatibri, for as the respective members of society are well or badly
trained in' youth, so will the community which they constitute be more
or less civilized. The training of a man, no matter what his natural
views may be, . is inevitably influenced by the moral surroundings of
his early years. Milton says: '"The childhood shows the man as
morning shows the day." It is at the very beginning of growth' that
the germs of good or evil, virtue or vice, are first implanted in man, ·
and largely determine the character of his life.
The home which is the nursery of cJii'.dr.en ·who must grow up
into men and women, will be g-ood or bad, according to the power that
governs it. Where the spirit of love and duty pervades the home, and
where honesty and virtue are always present, and the government is
sensible, kind and loving, there may, we expect the development of
healthy. useful and happy beings, capable as they grow in. strength
of . following in the fo otsteps of their preceptors, walking uprightly
and contributing to the welfare of those about them.
Whi'e the influence of the mother in the home is the strongest in
the development of a child's character, yet we men are not absolved

249

from our responsibility, too. Certain vi·rtues are masculine in chafacter,
and they are best taught and exemplified by man. The qualities of
courage ·and aggressiveness against all forms of deceit and evil should
be exercised by the man; and the hands of the mother should be
.sustained and supported by his strength and endurance. T he father
in his home life can exert a tremendous influence upon his chi'dren,
for by such influence can be taught either a love for that which is
honest, true and wholesome, in all matters that make up their social
and industrial life, or it can create in the mind of the watching child,
ideas that dishonesty is profitable, deceit is cleverness, and falsehood
is more charming than truth. Furthermore, we should · study and
know our own children. Silent'y and unconsciously their individuality
develops and if we would be pals with them we must respond to their
moods and show at all times a sympathy with, and understanding of,
their tasks and trials. It is only when they fail to get sympathy at
home that they turn to strangers.
Next to the influence of the home in the development of the
child, is that of the school..
There is no single remedy that wil'. cure the many ills that afflict
Jur economic life like education. Some men who know better,
deliberately injure their fellow beings, but most of the sufferings and
trials ·that come to us are based on ignorance, narrowness of vision
and prejudice that could be dissipated by the light of understanding.
True education is. not mere book learning, but is the development
of our mental forces through association with the best in tel' ects of
the ages. Through· the .instrumentality of books we come in contact
with the minds of the great intellectual giants of the past, and by an
immediate association with living teachers and students, the growing human mind acquires that breadth of understanding and sympathy that mellows an<;! matures the knowledge acquired from books. In earlier days,
schooling was supposed to be represented by the three R's, and while
reading, 'riting and 'rithmetic are still essential, the true object · of
education should be to enable each student to think and plan and act.
for himself, guided, to be sure, by the experience of others, but primarily exercising that initiative and freedom of decision that is so
representative of Americanism. Our public schools provide the
para phernalia for training the mind just as gymnasium equipment
makes possible the strengthening of the body, but back of it must be
that spirit that teaches each boy and girl to knowingly choose between
the true and the .false, the good and the . bad, and enables each to
deve'op that self-assurance and self-reliance that will withstand the
winds · of adversity, the darkness of deception, a~d the downpours cf
bigotry.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.We should unceasingly watch and zealously fight to keep our
public schools true and untrammeled avenues o.f education. Above
all, we should demand that the public school _systeni_- ~e. kept free fr~ITI
the contaminating influence of . th<: , professional . poht1c1an. Education
sh0uld a'.ways remain a .part . ·;;£ our, ~ecular governrpent, free from .
all restraints imposed by philosophical or religjous bel,ief~. and opi!Jions.
Children should be taught an absolute adherence to the patriotic
principles of our country, and a clear conception of .the• · rea~. rights
and privileges of man. Unfortunately, too many of the wt.d and
weird doctrines that are prevalent throughout· the world .today, have
been taught by some of the professors in our universities, whose
statements are given added force by reason of the position they hold
in the community.
Let us teach loyalty and patriotism in · our schools, ·in our lodges,
and in our pulpits. Let us preserve and protect those historic spots
which have become dear to the hearts of the American people, for
it is by this means we shall be able to recal! the past and impress upon
the minds of our children the richness of .their heritage.
We are members of a nati~n which gives its citizens the most
of liberty and affords the best .field for its development . .Is it strange,
therefore, that this nation is the one around _which ·the hopes of
humanity cluster? Does it not follow that upon our people rest the
solemn responsibilities of citizenship? Let us pledge ourse'.ves to
- abide by the Constitution and the laws and to seek redress for our
wrongs, real or fancied; only · in the manner therein prescribed.. "It is
a citizen's privilege, his duty, his glory to stand ·firmly_ agamst ~II
movements and efforts to weaken the force of law, to disturb social
order, or to tear down the Stars and Stripes and ·substitute the red
flag of Anarchy."
Let us, therefore, as Masons,· resolve to be better citizens, to do
our share in the great work of carrying on the National, State and
'.ocal government for the benefit1 'of ' all, amf in making that resolution
let us adopt the thoughts of Stevenson :_
···To be honest, to be kind,
To earn a little, to spend a little less,
To make upon the whole a family ha·ppier for his presence,
To renounce when that shall be necessary and not be embittered,
To keep a few friends and these without capitulation,
And above all, on the same grim condition
To keep friends with himself;
Here is a task for all that a· man has of fortitude and delicacy."
The corner-stone of a free government is the intel!igence of its
people.
It is our Masonic duty to raise the standard of our citizenship
to the highest possible plane. What are some of the characteristics

of a good citizen? In brief, he must not be afraid of hard work; he
must be able to fight his own battles and to hoe his own row. Whether
he works for money, · for love, or for ·fame, he must do it with all
his might. In whatever field he labors, he must do his best, bearing
it:i mind that no man whose regard is worth havin.g , will look down
on him. He- must work not only di:igently, but intelligently. Moreover he must be honest. No man can afford to be dishonest either
with' himself or his fellow man. He should follow the advice given
by f>olonius to his son: . "To -thine own self be true, and .it must follow.
as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man." ·
He must act upon the square. If he is a manufacturer, let it be
said that his product is built upon hono r. The attorney must be honest
with his client, the engineer must not deceive his emp:oyer.
The American citizen must be honest 'in his dealings with his
country and that country will protect him in the enjoyment of · life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness. He should cultivate thfift, not
to save money for base or avaricious purposes; but to save it for
economical purposes. · The man who spends all his earnings is ever
standing on the brink of destitution.
One 'of the great needs of the world today is work. Only through
hard, honest toil can we solve many of our pressing prob!ems. ·
We live ' in ·an age of rapid thought and quick action. · It is an
age of constant struggle. No qua'rter is asked, none is given. We
hun·g er after power, riches, glory. We live to conquer, to reach the
goal· in· the mighty race for power and fame. This we call success.
Not so! Death is the victor. Success is but . the glimmer of a
moment, then we, too, pass on to make room for others.
Unfortunately for humanity, our own cares ·chiefly occupy our
minds. Our good purposes are hindered by many obstacles. We live
in -selfish ways, urged thereto by seeming necessity. T oo often do we
achieve success at the expense ·of others. We are competed by needs
that are our masters to lead lives little profitable even to ·ourselves;
too 0ften our motives are misconstrued and our tempers become soured
by ingratitude and injustice, and it is indeed rare that any human soul
keeps whole its U\)selfishness, its generosity, its nobility, amid the
struggles and contentions ·of a busy life. ' Yet what are-

250

251

"Wealth and glory, and place and power ,
What are' they worth for me or you ?
For the lease of life runs in an hour
And death stands ready to claim his due,
Sounding honors or hea ps of gold,
What a re they all · when all is told?"
To those of us who have always been under the necessity of _laboring for. a living, leisure .often a_ppears as a . priceless possession. But

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

252

253

PROCEEDINGS 01'' THE

!eisme is often like the mirage that the thirsty n:ian sees on the dese.rt .
when looking across the sun ~parched plains, or hke th~ pot. of gold at .
the end of the rainbow that mov.es on as we approach it.
From the time of Adam man has b~en enjoined to earn his living ·
by the sweat of his brow, and work has, therefore, through al.I the
·centuries been made a part of the price we must pay for happiness.
The busy man is the contented man, and, I might add, the heaith.Y
man. More machinery, both mental and physical, · as. well as. i;ietal, is
destroyed by rust than by work. All the great thmgs of 'life have
been accomplished through work. It is indolence that exhausts, not
action. Nothing is so injurious as unoccupied time. As has been
said, "The human he.art is like a millstone; if you put .w.hea.t under
it, it grinds the .wheat into flour; if. you put no wheat .1t grm<ls o.n.
but then 'tis- itself it . wears ·away."
· ·
· ·
While it is true that some men die of over work, most of th~m
die of selfishness, indulgence · or idleness. The efficient worker i~ hke
a well conducted machine whose wearing surfaces are separated by a
thin film of lubricant so that the power created is tran.smi~ted to the
thing to be accomp'ished without wearing out the machine itself. We
have all seen some individual who can work on day after day fo~ a
long period of time and yet maintain that calm and cheerful maen
that knows no fatigue. Such individuals have learned the art of
lubrication, for they interpose between themselves and the ~ne.rgy they
create a thin but effective film of interest that prevents fnctton, heat
and loss of power.
All great labors have been !abors of love and we should love our
work to do it best.
In the history of the formation of all great nations we fin? that
when every member thereof contributed of his brawn and brain for
its development that nation prospered and advanced, but when through
the development of castes and the belief that labor was fit ' only for
slaves then that nation went into decay. The story of Athens and of
Rome' is the story of too milch leisure for the ruling classes .. and the
development of vices which undermined not on '.y ·the character . of the
people but the very foundation of the State. Let us, therefore, fill
.our minds so full of plans for helpful service not only for ourselves
;ind our loved ones, but also for the good of all .humanity, that '.ike a
field of vigorous growing wheat there will be no room for the weeds
of discontent and the thistles of idleness.
The · forces of dis.i ntegration are at work in this country as well
as throughout the world. The vicious elements must not be permitted
to gain the upper-hand, and now as . never before, my Brethren, must
we develop individual character which shall save us from the
threatened dangers.
·- ·

Character does not mean intellect or learning, for some of the
most influential characters in a community are often men lacking in
literary accomplishments, but possessed of great moral and stabilizing
force. In the affairs of :ife or business, it is not intellect that counts
so much as self-control, patience, discipline and judgment. These are
all moral attributes and have greater weight than scintillating
cleverness.
Jn the light of great examples we are not only justified, but in
duty bound, to aim at reaching the highest standard of character.
This does not mean 'that we should become the richest in material
things, but rather in spirit; not the greatest in world y position, but
in true honor; not the most intellectual, but the most virtuous.
One of the attributes of character is conscientiousness. The man
who is conscientiou!; puts that quality into _his wor~ and his words.
He believes that whatever. is worth doing, is worth doing well, and
unless he has something to say, idle words are superfluous.
Reverence is another attribute of character. The real man shows
reverence for the consecrated things of past generations-for the pure
thoughts and noble aims of others. Without reverence there can be
neither trust, faith nor confidence in man or God, nor can we have
social peace or social progress.
Energy is one of the things necessary in the development of
character. Without it, there is he'plessness and despondency. Says
the old proverb: "The strong man and the waterfall channel their
own path." All great men of history were characterized by tremendous energy. Luther, Cromwell, Washington, Wellington, Napoleon
and other great leaders were tireless when necessity demanded. The
brave man is an inspiration to the weak, and history is full of examp'es
of the tide of battle being turned by the heroic act of a single individual
who would not recognize defeat. The same is true of ordinary life,
for the good and the great draw others after them. Let a man of
energetic and upright character be appointed to a position of trust and
authority, and all who serve under him become conscious of an
increase of responsibility.
Washington's exp:oits in war placed him high upon the pe<lestal
of fame, but the enduring qualities of the "Father of his Country" are
based primarily upon an honest, pure and nob'.e character, a model
for his Masonic brethren.
Each citizen owes to the nation the duty of maintaining in himself
a high, clean, moral character. His personal immorality is a detriment to the nation, yea, it is a part of the nation's immorality.
Teach the youth of our land to honor integrity, for a good character is a man's noblest possession. "It is greater than riches and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

254

more glorious than any career." Teach them to cherish pure thoughts
and to Jive uprightly. · Teach them, too, that contact with the good
never fails to impart good. Therefore they s.hould keep good company, .
or none at all.
"So live, th~t ~hen thy summo~1s comes to join
The innumerable caravan, which moves
To that mysterious rea'. m, where each shall take
His chamber in the silent halls of deat.h,
Thou ,go. not, like the ql!arry-slave ~t night,
Sco'urged to his . dungeon, but, sustained and soothed
'By an unfaltering trust, approach thy ~rave,
Like:· one ·who · wr~ps the drapery of his couch,,
. About him, .and hes down to pleasant dreams.
The American citizen must have confidence in himself and in
his country. If he has not that faith. he cannot eicpect others to have
it. Let us not l~ok to .others for support, but lean upon ourselves.
Let ~~ . be optimistic, koking ...ever forward, never backward. Let us
make our opportunity, not w<1it for it. Let us be courageous even
when the clouds are darkest.
The United States has ever been the land of promise to the peoples
of the world. In the decades that have passed since the signing of
the Declaration of Independence, our country has. held open its arms to
the white races of the world. Our land is broad and although we
still have roon:i fo,r many millions, there is not. a single inch for. the
man or woman who refuses . to bear true allegiance to the American
flag. Our ·~at~ral resources, though not inexhau·stible, are ~till a~ple
to furnish food. and fuel for the industries that make 1t possible
for men to engage in productive labor. We welcome, as in the pa.st,
the . inen and women . and little' 'c;:hildren who knock at our doors with
~n" honest ·a nd sincere desire to ·make our land thdr home, and to
becoii'.ie · in heart ar;d mind, as well as bodily presence, one. of us.
The ' United' States has been termed ''.the melting pot," but iust as
the ingredients poured into· a vessel are blended i~dissolubly together,
sliould the. mixed races that constantly pour mto our country be
0
~used together by the heat of patriotism into real Ame~ica~s. Liberty
does not mean license, and freedom of speech does not iust1fy tre~son­
able propaganda. The mistaken zealots who .come to our sho;es, not
to enjoy that liberty, but to gnaw like a hidden rodent at its very
foundation, are ·not entitled to remain among us. Ther are a '.11enace
to. civilizat'ion itself, and like those possessed of malignant diseases
should be banished where their contaminating influences cannot be
felt.
I do not deny the right of any immigrant, whose family' traditions
penetrate like toots into the past, to bring with him in his heart
remembrances of the· customs and practices of his forefathers, and

they are to be commended and fostered so \ong as. they do not inter
fere with or supplant the real and foundational love he should hold
for his adopted country. Just as a tree is taken · from its nursery bed
and transplanted to a distant clime, is nurtured by the warmth of the
sun, fed by the soil which receives it, and watered by the ·rains that
descend upon· it, so should the immigrant who voluntarily transplants
himself into this soil of opportunity, this sunshine of free initiative,
and who is nursed by the waters of equa! advantages, claim as his
sole hearthstone, the land that .s ustains him.
.
We must recognize that the question of any foreign subject immigrating to this country is one of privilege, and not of right. T he
United St<!tes of America was made possible by the delegation by
individual States of certain rights and privileges. Except as to those
delegated powers, each individual State is sovereign within its own
borders, and its people have the right, through their elective franchis~,
to do or not to do what seems best to them, as affecting their intercourse with each other, or with neighboring States. We have in the
past announced to the worl.d that the citizens of other nation's might,
under the conditions prescribed, enter into and become part of our
dtizenship. That privilege can at any time, if we so choose, be curtai'ed or entirely termin.a.ted, and no one can just'.y complain ·o f such
action. It is truly said that in the sight of God all ~en are created
equal, but many centuries of h'istory have demonstrated that in the
sight of man all races are not cap11~le of being assimilated. In the
O~ient are people who in recent yea.'rs have developed in the · arts,
sciences and commerce. We have always been glad to assist in their
development, not on:y from the standpoint of trade, but also in the
deve'opment of their minds and souls through the enlightenment of
edt:cation. But God has seen fit to draw a distinction in color between
these races and us, and while we look upon them as friends and
associates in the business world, we may rightly reserve the privilege
of restricting that association in all ~hings that pertain to our social
life, and in that we are like the man who chooses, from among numerous acquaintances, the persons to be guests in his home. The United
States is our home-here we !ive and move and have 01.1r being. Our
children are taught democracy and the thi'ngs that will make them
strong men and noble women when they reach that maturity which
draws them into the active affairs of life. If we choose to invite to
ou r shores only those races whose habits of thought, national traditions
and social characteristics are in conformity with ou r own, why .;houlrl
those of different habits, traditions and characteristics show resentment? What we deny to others, we do not claim for ·ourselves and
A~eri~ans have never endeavo red to force themselves, · individually or
col ectively, upon those peoples who have not shown a cordial desire

256

PRO.CEEDINGS OF THE .
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to t1ave us go among them. I insist that we have the right and privilege
to regulate the internal affairs of our own country,
And now, in conclusion, let me repeat what has been said so
many times, that "Masonry is always a force for g~od ~n every community where its true spirit actuates those who guide its labors. It
Jays hold deep down in the souls of men and lifts them from darkness
to light. It comes to the sick and di~tressed as an ~ngel o~ mercy,
ministering to those entitled to our assistance. Ours 1s a nob e order .
gro~n venerahle in the practice of charity. It has made concret" the
phi"osophy of the ages, and showered blessings upon the wid_oY. an<l
the orphan who have our especial care."
"We believe in the great work of this grand fraternity because
its principles and teachings are not limited by time, but are in harmony
with the Creator's plan for the happiness and prosperity of the human
race to the end that we may gain entrance into a larger sphere of
usefulness and enjoyment. Every symbol, every thought, every ~ess~n
impressed, touches a responsive chord in the human heart, resu~tmg 111
higher aspirations and a desire to enter the door of opportuntty and
accept the responsibility of using the ta'ents wherewith the Creator
has been pleased to endow us, not only to His glory, but for the
welfare of humanity. Everywhere that Masonry has b.een taught an<l
practiced the imprint of our Institution has been indelibly st~mpe? t~pon
the pages of history recording its growth. and progres~, its d1sc1ples
ever and at all times recognized as standmg for the highest type of
111oral development and citizenship."
Finally, my Brethren, the world is passing through a11 era of
stress and turmoi'. The winds of radicalism are whipping the wav~s
, 1f thought into forces as powerful and as destructive. as the waters tn
a stormy sea. Our own Nation is like a ship traversmg the uncharted
w:ean of the future. We know that our c.r aft is sturdily built, and,
please God, with a capable and loyal crew it will weather every storm.

J\s Longfellow has beautifully expressed it:
"Thou, too, sail on, 0 Ship of State!
Sail on, 0 Union, strong and great!
Humanity with all its fears,
With all the hopes of future yea rs,
{s hanging breathless on thy fate!
We know what Master 1aid thy keel,
What Workman wrought thy ribs of steel,
Who made each mast, and sail, and rope,
What anvils rang, what hammers beat,
Tn what a forne and what a heat
Were shaped the anchors of thy hope!

257

Fear not each sudden sound and shock,
'Tis of the wave and not the rock;
'Tis but the flapping of the sail,
And not a rent made by the gale!
In sp!te of rock and tempest's roar,
In spite of false lights on the shore,
Sail on, nor fear to bn:ast the sea!
Our hearts, our hopes, a re all with thee,
Our he~rts, <?Ur hopes, our pray"ers, our tears,
Our faith triumphant o'er our fears,
Are all with thee-are 11!1 with thee !"

A risi1ig vote of thanks was enthusiastically given to
ltrother Boynton, and he was requested to furnish a copy
of his oration for publication in the Proceedings, and that
a s ufficient number be printed, with . the Message of the
Crand Master, for distribution to the several Lodges of
the jurisdiction.

REPORT 0.F TH~ GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California :
I herewith submit my report as Grand Lecturer, giving a full
and explicit accou nt of my services during the year just closed.
This has been without doubt the most successful and active
year in the history of the Grand Lodge. There has be.e n a tremendous gain in membership, the largest for any year since its
organization. Many Lodges, however, in spite of the vas t amount
of degree WQrk, have found and taken time to pr ovide entertainment and educational programs for their members. This has not
o nly been instructive and beneficial, but has greatly increased the
attendance, both at degree work and stated meetings. The interest
thus taken has been accomplished in a great measure by the persistent and untiring efforts of ou r Grand Master, and his Committee
on Masonic Education. The Masters' and Wardens' Clubs have
also done much to stimulate interest and make suggestions in this
respect, which I believe will have a beneficial and lasting effect,
and tend to make Masonry a g reater force in the community; as
well as inspire us all to practice o ut of the Lodge the lessons
inculcated therein, thereby making us better Masons and better
c1t1zens. There never was a time in the history of the world,
during this period of reconstruction and social unrest, when there
was greater need for this than at present. Hence now is the time
for ·us as Masons to justify ou·r cause, and practice what we
profess.
I have visited every district in the State, holding schools of

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

instruction, both day and night sessions, and have given instruction to Inspectors, officers and brethren in my office and ·at the
Masonic Club, all taking a keen interest in perfecting themselves
in the ritual, I have received reports from most all the Inspectors,
many of these reports giving comprehensive and minute details
of the financial and active doings of the craft in their districts,
and most of them showing large gains in membership.
I desire to express my appreciation and thanks to the Inspectors for their courtesy and valuable assistance rendered to me in
my work, and my congratulations to them for the splendid condition of most of the Lodges un der their supervision. ·
Many new Lodges have been formed during t.he year throughout the State. I believe that there is ample room for many more
new Lodges. ·This will greatly relieve the congested condition of
the degree work in many of the Lodges, and allow more time for
entertainment and educational purposes.
It has been my pleasure to accompany the Grand Master on
many of his visits. He has visited every district in the jurisdiction.
All of these meetings have been well attended and greatly appreciated by the brethren. The addresses of the Grand Master on
these visits have given the brethren a far different conception of
Masonry and the duties oxpected of them as citizens, and his hope
and prayer for all to be more closely united for the benefit of
mankind, and to spread the cement of brotherly love and affection .
My thanks are due the Grand Secretary for many courtesies
extended me in his office during the year.
Thanking the Grand Lodge and brethren for the honors be•
stowed, and the hope that my efforts will be approved.
Fraternally submitted,
•

2:i9 .

31 n <&runh 1£ohgr
Afternoon Session.
Wednesday, October 13, 1920.
Grand Lodge was ca II e d on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master pre.s iding.
Brother
George Filme r, p act'fi c Coast Director
.
.
of the
American Red Cross; addressed Grand Lodg
th
.
d
· · ·
e on e aims
an acttv1t1es of the Red Cross for wh' h h
tc
e was accorded
'
a d eserved vote of thanks.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws of Consti
.
leave to report that the proposed amendments t~en~ ~odges be~s
~d by various Lodges and approved during the :ea;b;~~estm1~
as.ter, and as appears in the report of the Grand S
t
ran
all m proper form, and we recommend th .
ecre ary, are
Grand Lodge.
eir approval by the
RALPH HARRIS
ELIAS ELLISON;

THOMAS J. BAKJ!R,

DAVID M. SUTH!i;RLAND
ALMON T. RICHARDSON,
]AMl!s CROSBY,
'

Grand Lect11rer.

Referred to a committee consisting of Paul Burks,
Alfred E. Hofmann, Horace W. Rice.

Committee on By-Laws.

The report was adopted.

,FUNDS FOR SOCIAL PURPOSES
Brother Coombs of Yount Lodge No. 12 introduced
a resolution to amend section 89 of th~ Constitution, permitting Lodges to expend 33% per cent of gross revenue
for social purposes. Referred to the Committee on General
Policy and Purposes.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

VOTE OF THANKS
The thanks of Gra~d Lodge were extended by a risin
vote to the San F.ranc1sc~ Bodies of the Scottish Rite fo~
the free use of their beautiful rooms Tuesday afternoon.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF '£Hh.

MEMORIAL SERVICES
The Deputy Grand Master presiding, a sweetly solemn
service of prayer and song and speech of tribute was then
held in memory of our deceased brethren, J am~s Baunty
Stevens, James Wright Anderson, George Perrin Adams
. and Mathew Simpson Hughes, as follows:
ORGAN-Chopin's Funeral March-Sa~uel D. Mayer, Grand Organist.
PRAYER-Edgar F. Gee, Grand Chaplain.
0 God our Heavenly Father! Creator of all things! The Lord
f life and 'death! We humbly commend int? 1:h~ Hands the soul~
~f all those our brethren in this Grand Junsd1ct1on who ~ave d:
parted this life in the sure and certain hope of resurrection . un _o
eternal life. Pardon whatsoever Thou mayest have seen am;ss. m
Vouchsafe to them a tabernacle of rest and conso ation
h
~n e~~ realm of light, where all sorrow and sighing and tears fl~~
Grant that all that is good in them may be expa~ded a
~~:~~d. all that is evil may be eradicated, and that all m.1sc~nce1~ions of truth may be swept away. Deepen in them ~heir now t
d love of Thee and grant them an ever growing nea~n~ss
edg;han resence. Mou.Id them by Thy Holy Spirit into t~e D1v~ne
t?
y p
t'l th
be made perfect and numbered with Thine
likeness, un 1
ey
f 11
ti ei good
dect in glory everlasting. Give us grace so to o ow 1 r
.
examples, walking in the way of Thy righteous laws, that having
labored as they labored. we may afte~ward rest as the~. rest. S~
that finally with them we may ent,:r mto that Temple not mad
with hands eternal in the heavens.
Amen.

EuLOGY, James Baunty Stevens-Wi.lia~ T. Lucas, Past Grand Master.
Most W.'.Grand Master and Brethren:
.
Death is as inevitable as the dawn of morning, or t.he sha.dow_s
that thicken as· the sun sinks behind the w estern .horizon; yet it
too often comes suddenly and unexpectedly and brings a throb of
sorrow and anguish.
Life is the commingling of sunshine and shadow; and the
shadow deepens into glo.om for the moment, _when those we love
nd revere a:re laid to rest forever from our sight.
a
When a good man . dies, the people put on the habilaments of
mourning and recount the value of charact~r in the example he
has left to mankind. Our destiny is determined by the character

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

we build. "The idea of immortality, like the great sea, has ebbed
and flowed in the human heart, beating with its countless waves
against the rocks and sands of fate and · time. We cannot say
whether death is a wall or a door-the beginning or the end of a
<lay; the spreading of pinions to sciar, or the folding forever of
win gs; whether it is the rising or the setting of the sun, or an
~ndless life that brings rapture and love ·to every one; we do not
know; we cannot Si!Y·" Aye, we cannot say, but we feel that those
wh9 have gone befor.e have solved the problem, and are now reaping the reward of well spent lives. For to us"There is no death!
What seems so is transition;
This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life elysian,
Whose portals we call death."
James Baunty Stevens, Past Grand Master of this Grand body,
was born March 27th, 1841, in Miami, Ohio; passed to rest at
Santa Rosa, December 6th, 1919, age 78 years, 8 months and 4 days.
He came across the plains, when a child, with -his father and
family, with an emigrant train, · in 1852. They were six months
on the trip, arriving in California in October, 1852. He was the
eldest of eleven children; five born in Ohio and six in California.
He was married to Martha Gordon, in Jackson, Amador County,
California, November 27th, 1866. He leaves two children, Mrs.
James Newlands, and a son, Harry Gordon Stevens, both Jiving
in San Francisco.
He was made a Master Mason, in Amador Lodge No. 65, at
J.ackson, California, June 20th, 1867. At the time of his death he
was a memher of Yount Lodge No. 12, Napa, California. He was
elected and served as Master of Yount Lodge in 1885, 1886, 1887,
1-888, and 1889. He was made a Royal Arch Mason in Sutter
Chapter, at Sutter Creek, California, June 19, 1874. He was made
a Knight of the Temple, in Sacramento Commandery, No. Z,
March 8th, 1878. He was appointed and served as Grand Marshal of this Grand Lodge during the years 1888, 1889 and 1890.
He · was elected .T unior Grand Warden of this Grand body in 1891;
Senior Grand Warden in 1892; Deputy Grand Master in 1893; anti
Most Worshipful Grand Master. in 1894.
For many years Brother Stevens held an important position
under our National Government, as Assistant U. S. Appraiser of
Merchandise.
His last years were years of illness and suffering, but his
energy met life's vicissitudes with an unfaltering faith in the hope

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF TII~

262

that "the soul of the righteous shall survive the grave, and soar
aloft to realms of life and light eternal."
Brother· Stevens occupied the highest station within the gift
of this Grand body, and his administration was one of ability and
efficiency, and was marked with the greatest degree of fraternal
kindness. Cordial, courteous and refined, a genial companion and
a true gentleman, his nam~ was a synonym of honor and integrity.
His voice is silenced, his place is vacant; he fought the good
fight, he kept the faith, and has been raised by the Supreme Grand
Master to the Lodge above, eternal in the he~vens.
A true Mason, friend and brother, he has gone before, and
will stand ready to welcome the true and faithful when our labors
here are ended. Our Past Grand Master is dead . One of God's
noblemen has gone. "How frail our life, how short its date."
While I would not dry one tear that is shed for him; while
l would not suppress one moan that breathes out the .sorrow of
those who. mourn for him, yet I take heart in the. glad· thought
that •in those things which made our brother beloved, in all these
thing.s he is not dead, and cannot die. May we be influenced ever
by fhe example of those gone before; may we learn lessons of
fidelity to friends, of convictions to duty and truth from those
who are not dead, but simply waiting on the other side the roll
call of the Celestial Grand Lodge, and the gavel sound by the
Supreme Grand Ruler of the Universe.
VocAL SoLO--Requiem-Louis A. Larsen, Past Master.
EULOGY, James

Wright Anderson-I. J. Aschheim, Past Master.

\Jo§t Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren:
There was still another name added to the eternal roster
~ince our last communication, and I am privileged to stand .here
in the East, at this hour of solemn memorial, charged with the
sacred duty of paying a tribute of reverence and respect t~ the
brother ' who, for possibly three decades and a half, attended these
annual communications with unfailing regularity. Doing so, not
only as a passive observer, or casual caller, but as a factor whose
presence could never be ignored. · In the spirit of Masonic comradeship, he would mingle with his brethren, extend his right hand
of fellowship, both to young and old, to the lowly as well as those
high in rank. As long as his vitality lasted, he was a conspicuous
figure on the floor of the Grand Lodge, sometimes agreeing, but
often times also disagreeing with those engaged with him in debate,
for his was a mind of independence, force and originality.

~rancisco Chapter, James Wri

. ~63

:t ·A~~er.son-:--Prof~sso_r

Past Master of Pacific Lod e

.
.
ast High ·Priest .of San
if you please, or, Professor J g
..
Anderson
by his intimates and associa~e:'" asGhe was affect101lately terw,ed
diction, as author of Ande s ' ' Mas rand Lectµrer o( this jurisanual or Dig t
.·
r on s
ant ority on Masoni
. '.
es , as recognized
h· h
c usage and JUrtsprudenc · · · · ·
imself on his time and generatio th h'
.
.e-so 1mpressed
hold word among Masons
d . n, at _is name became a ' hotiseend of the State to the ' :~ m ;ra~omc associations,: ftom one
commemorated here and o er. b uc. a brother deserves· td ' be
now
ut . m Jang a
f
b
command. Such loyalty
d
u ge ar eyond my
master hand not by
an
evotion ought to . be sketChed . by a
•
an amateur.
I therefore hesitated when the M . W . G
me .as official eulogist. Why should .I. . . rand Master selected
workman in the quarries b
h ..
mere hewer of wood; a
But I hesitated only for a ' e c osfien or this high distinction?
moment· rst becau
I
'd
a refusal was beyond me th t I h d ' .
se cons1 en~d· •t hat
guished consideration gi~en a
a. hno . ng~t to treat the di·s'tinI
·
me wit d1sdam · secon'dl
b
d
'
.
y, ec.a use
saw an opportunity for liquidatin
ment which I owed Broth
A d g a ebt of public ·acknowledger n erson.
When in 1909 Pacifi L d
the then Master saw fit ~o o
celebrated her Golden Jubilee,
occasion . In due time I
ap om~ me as the Historian for the
the Lodge graciously ace pt rdesentde my historical sketch, which
'b .
ep e an ordered to b
·
d f
·
e prmte
tn ution among the memb ers. 1 resolved not to
or disII
to go to press until Brother Anders
h d
a o"". the form
When I asked him to do that
. onf a read . the final proof.
to the task without a moment' ~er~~ce. or me, he applied , himself
returned me the proof w;th h's es1 altlon. When subsequently he
·
'
is comp ete and une ·
I
·
ment of everything it contained I w
.qmvoca •endorse~hat 1 could well afford to give th b 00~s on .sa~e. ground ' and felt
tng public Had I
·
e
to a critical and . scrutiniz.
occasion to write a · t d
.
chure, I should have paid
.
n m ro uct10n to the bro. .
my respects to him and
apprec1at1on of his assistance ri ht th
expressed my
no excuse for writing such ;n .gt d en. and there., but there was
his debt all these years.
m ro uctlon and so L remaine9 -in

d

d p

'

't

:e.

Professor Anderson's vocation in lif
He came to this city in 1873 from p
1 e was that of a . teacher.
at once identified himself with th ~ta u;a, Sonoma county, and
ment. Evidently his reputation a: a~. :al~cis~o school departpedagogue preceded him fo h
a 1sc1p manan, as . well as a
·
'
•
r e was elected p · · 1 .
bemg required to first prove his
)'fi
.
rmc1pa without
class-room.
qua 1 cation as teacher in a

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The first . school given him in charge was the Fairmont Primary; from th.e re he was advanced to the Broadway Gram~ar,
thence to the Valencia street Grammar, and finally to the Sprmg
Valley Grammar. The latter he held from 1876 to 1887.
Being of an energetic and aspiring nature, he felt that. in his
particular profession he was entitled to reach the very pmnacle
of position and influence; consequently in 1886 he stepped out of
the stuffy atmosphere of a principal's office into the open ar~na
of politics, and succeeded in obtaining at his party's convent10n
in 1886 the nomination for City Superintendent of Schools.
His election followed quite as a matter of course, for he had
hundreds of young voter·s who in. their school days had sat at his
feet and felt his prickly rod, interest themselves in his behalf.
He took office in January, 1887, and proved an efficient and zealous
administrator. To confirm this, I will take the liberty of quoting
Mr. George Beanston, the old-time Secretary of the Board of Education and still the acknowledged encyclopedia on city school
affairs. He says, "It was not within his power to introduce
reforms, but he had a right to make recommendations from time
to time for the betterment of the city schools. He made such
recommendations fearlessly, and strongly advocated their adoption. Some of them were adopted and some were not. This was
the experience of all Superintendents."
His restless blood drove him to aspire to still wider prominence. In his opinion he had not yet reached the height to which
he was entitled. Having established a splendid record as City
Superintendent, he could well afford to go before the State Convention of his party in 1890 and bid for the nomination of State
Superintendent of Public Instruction. The coveted prize came to
him easiiy, and at the following election he was triumpha.ntly
elected to preside over the public schools of the State of Cahf.ornia. He took office, and removed his domicile to the State capital
in January, 1891. As State Superintendent he was a member of
the. State Board of Education and its Secretary. As far as known
he acted in harmony with the other members in the preparation
of State text books. He did not, however, favor the assignment
of this work to the Board, which consisted of the Gove~nor, the
Superintendent and the Principals of the three Normal schools.
In his first published report he says, "It will occur to anyone who
takes· the trouble to inform himself that the duties of these several
parties in the positions which they occupy precluded the possibility
of their devoting that attention to the work of compilation which
its importance demanded."

265

. will again avail myself of Mr. Beanston. Answering my
questi~n .whether ~rofessor Anderson was an acknowledged
authority m any P.a rhcular branch of education, Mr. Beanston says,
"Personally, I regarded him as an authority on all educational
subjects."
At the end of his term of office he had reached. an advanced

a~e, and ~onsid~red himself entitled to a life of rest, to a dQ/ce far
menle. Little did he dream then that he still had twenty-four years
of peaceful, serene as well as useful existence before him. He
r~tur.ned to this c.it~ and settled in a comfortable home. A splendid library, , contammg a large section of Masonic works, afforded
him the means of intellectual enjoyment.

Having finished with his public career, we may now turn to

t~at ph~se in the Professor's composition which so closely identified htm to the craft, which, moreover tied him to us with a
three.- fold tie and which extends our endearment even beyond the
grave. In other words, we may now take a retrospect of him as
a Mason. Brother Anderson, immediately upon his advent in this
ci.ty affiliated with Pacific Lodge No. 136, where he at once made
his p~esence felt . His general intelligence, h_is zeal for Masonry,
a?d hts .ardent d.evotion to its ancient landmarks were soon recogn~zed and befitt~ngly rewarded, so that in January, 1880, he was
given the seat · m the East. When in 1888, after my raising, I
.l'.egan to attend the stated meetings of my Lodge, I found him in
111~e for leadership, though he himself, unconscious of the fact,
'~1th such men as Thomas Anderson, Adolphus Hollub, John F.
Kennedy, P.
Code, D. A. D'Ancona, my guide and mentor; and
~he two Penhngtons, Thomas and George, the latter my instructor
m the lessons of the three degrees and later my intimate friend
and confidant. George Penlington's tragic end is still a sad and
sorrowful recolfection to many of us. His funeral partook almost
of the character of a Masonic demonstration. Those men were all
Past Masters, beyond middle age, men of parts, and of affairs.
He stood his ground with them on all occasions and defended his
opinions with consummate skill and tact, for he was strong in
debate, though it must be admitted, for the sake of truth a trifle
pugnacious at times.
'

p.

That was about the period when he was the Grand Lecturer
of the State and when he traversed the jurisdiction throughout its
length and breath .. whenever his duties as City Superintendent of
Schools would permit him to absent himself.
He held the Grand Lectureship until the year he was called to
the office of State. Superintendent, when he was compelled, much,
undoubtedly, to his regret, to relinquish the office which was so

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

266

much to his taste and so congenial to his pre-occupation. It was
like~·ise the pe.r.i od . in which he compiled his Manual, a work that
must have occupied his e.nt~re leisure time, for in a.d dition to tlJe
m~'nit~rial w·o rk, it also contained a codefication of all the Grand
Lodge decisions . a!Jd rulings up to that date. He subsequently
airtr,tifi~d .a nd revi~e~ that part in succeeding e~itions,. That book
has since been a·cqmred by the Grand Lodge and has become a.
guide f~r all Maso.ns throughout the jurisdiction.
· Brother Ander~.on, when at the zenith of his strength, was a
for~eful speaker. A man of great eloquence; not of the ornate,
effer~escent and shallow sort,, but an el@quence sho wing a gift of
tongue backed up by strong convictions, boldly uttered, and a
sincer~ 'desir~' tc( ·make the truth, as he saw it, prevail against
all odds.
that sense he was .really a spell-binde;, so to say, for he
held h'l s audiences so spell.- bound that his convincing P.o int.s would
remain ~it)l them even . after adjournment.
As w~s his eloq.u ence, so also was his Masonry, of the same
ty;~;.. na~ely,,. rugg,ed, open-hearted and open-faced. Nothing about
him ~f the unctuousness of the pietist; nothing about him of the
mystic~ . He did not delve beneath the sea, nor did he cli'mb the
mo~ntaintops, nor did he. rummage in mythical caves for testimony of historic Masonry. To him the history of Masonry was
a natural and rational evolution. He lived his Masonry. His life
was ~. Jiving testimony of its worth, and eve·ry word he .u ttered
in connection with -Masonic teachings betokened the faith that
was .in him. ,He almost fulfilled the Biblical injunction to the letter,
which says:

£n ·
0

· "These words .which· I command thee this day shall
be in thine heart; and thou shalt teach them dilig~ntly
unto . thy children and shall talk of them when thou· s1ttest
in .thine house and when thou walkest by the way; .when
thou liest down and when thou risest up."
Thus he taught the philosophy, the ethics and the . scieni:e of
Ma,s onry to all of his spiritual children worthy of that knowledge;
+h~·s he .whispered wise counsel in their ears.
.. Days ~nd months . and years rolled by, and good old Professor
Anderson continued to pursue what he took to be as his mission
in. life. .When finally his bodily strength began to wane and twilight set in. he was compelled t o live on the memories of the past
and cease his Masonic intercourse. After twilight came the evening. In his eighty-seventh year he 'withdrew to the shady groves
o(our modern Athens across the bay, where he fou nd surcease
a~d where he continued t o be sustained by the love and caresses
of his faithful life compani~n an d those of a dutiful daughter.

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

Having th us been called off from labor, he awaited with calm
resignation the sound of the gavel in the East. · W hen ·that inexorable sound came, his soul, redeemed and purified 'in the crucible
of a busy life from the dross and impurities of this terrestial
sphere, winged its way to the great orien tal chair, the seat of
eternal justice and mercy, there to receive the re ward of a life
of honest and honorable endeavor. For the glory of Masonry,
may James Wri.ght. Anderson have untold successors in the Grand
Lodge of California for generations to come.
VocAL Sow-Who Treads the Path of Duty-Bro. Walter C. Campbell.
EULOGY, George Perrin Adams-Walter P . Johnson, Pa.s t Master.
George ·Perrin Adams born September 12, 1851 ; died April 4,
1920.
The attendants at this seventy-first communication of the
Gra!)d Lodge of Masons of California miss a familiar face. Gecrge
Perrin Adams, during a service of twenty-two years as Tiler,· had
become almo st a traditio n. Grand Masters. came and Grand Masters went ; but the ever faithful Tile r had become, as it were, part
of the eternal round of things. F ew men in the .Fraternity wen
· so generally known to visiting brethren, and his departure henC•!
on last Easter's radiant morn startled, not less than grieved · his
wide circle of friends.
'
Born in Fitchburg, Massachuse tts, September 12th, 1851, he had
tilled out nearly the three sco re years and ten allotted to man.
He came of that old Pilgrim stock which, daring all hardships,
established on this co ntinent institutions of o rderly ·fre.e dbm, and
created a system o f common schools wh ich is one of the foundation stones of our democracy. · He 'belonged to a branch of that
famous Adams family which furnished two Presidents to 'these
United States. and which traced its origin back to o ne of the
Mayflower pilgrims.
As a boy he grew up · in the soeial atniosphere whiCh ' prevailed in ·MasEachusetts when Longfellow, Lowell, Whittier, b 'liver
Wendell Holmes, William Lloyd Garriso n and Werideii ' Phillips
were in their prime: A lad verging on his teeris at tlie · outb'reak
of the Civil w ar, his character began to be mou l'ded by· tlie ci~ter­
mination and elevation of spirit which animated the people of
Massachusetts in the great struggle to rid the Union of the curse
of slavery. And in this' environment he grew toward manhood,
earnest yet fun -loving, persistent · without bluster, kindly but not
complaisant.

268

PHOCEEDHIOS m' 'l'IIF.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In his twenty-first year he left his natiye State and came by
way of Panama to California, arriving in San Francisco November
13th, 1871. He first entered the postal service and later became
for several years connected with the Land Department of the
Southern Pacific railroad ..
His Masonic career began in 1880, when he became a member
of California Lodge No. 1. In 188'i he was appointed its Tiler and
served until 1892. Then followed an interval of five years until
1897, at which time he was again appointed Tiler and served his
Lodge continuously thereafter in that capacity. for twenty-three
years until his death.
Neat in appearance, gentlemanly and alert in demeanor, genial
in converse, he was a man whom people found lovable. He possessed a fund of quiet humor which enabled him to disarm the
little irritations of life of their sting by .many a quaint quip or
amusing turn of speech. Always conscientious, exact and orderly,
he was a.ttentive and diligent in every labor, and was never a man
to put off until tomorrow a duty which should be done today:
And remembering him as he was, we bare our heads in his
memory, not because of any unusual gifts or accomplishments to
be recorded. He was just one of those plain. thorough-irning.
clean, simple-minded men, who make up the bulk of our beloved
Fraternity. Never would he want to be made to appear what he
was not. He wished only to pass for what he was. He was just
Georll:e Adams, and that meant a personage marked by a sincere
simr>licity-that sort of simplicity, of which the essence is an
uprightness of soul possessing a generous self-forgetfulness. Indeed, I think his distini.tuishing trait was a self-sacrificing loyalty.
He w;is one of the most dependable of men, a worthy citizen, an
exemplary Mason, a faithful friend and a devoted husband.
One of the lessons of life which he had well learned was to
burn his own smoke. There was no petty morhidness ahout him,
and he kept to himself his pains and sorrows. For months before
he died he was in the grip of sore bodily ills, but he continued,
uncomplairting, his daily tasks · till growinl!' weakness forced him
·to desiqt. Then. clear-eyed, s~rene and calmly confident, he waited
·that E;ister Dav when, as with the confiding heart of a little .
chiid. he slipped his hand into that of the Silent Messenger sent
for his release, and went to answer the roll-call in the Celestial
Lodqe which no time can close, and which to those worthy of
admission will remain open during the boundless ages of eternity.
Th,.re let u~ think of him lovingly, amid the spirits of just men
made perfect, known and read of all as one of our Masonic epistles

·for

269

w~itten, as was said by St. Paul in ·his letter to his little band of
fa_1 t?ful Corinthi~ns, "Not. with ink, but with the spirit of the
Livmg God; not m tables of stone, but in the fleshly tables of the
heart."
While now we miss him as the guardian of these fraternal
portals, !e~ us consider whither he has gone and take comfort.
H_e has Jomed the noble company of the righteous, and is vested
with a splendor, excelling that of the buds swelling into beauty
on that Easter morn when his spirit took its flight.
The Lord is good, His mercy is everlasting, and His truth
endureth to all generations. Return unto thy rest, O thou soul,
fo: the Lord hath dealt bountifully with thee. For so He giveth
His beloved sleep.
VocAL Sow-No Night There-Brother Larsen, Grand Master.
EULOGY, Matthew Simpson Hughes-Benjamin F . Bledsoe,
Past Grand Master.
(Past Grand Master Bledsoe spoke without nures, and we regret.fully are compelled to omit his remarks, so eloquently and
feelingly expressed in memory of his and our dear departed friend
and brother.)
ORGAN POSTLUDE-Grand Organist.
BENEDICTION-Grand Chaplain.

Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'cloC'k
Thursday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

PROCEEDINGS OJ!' THE

270

To the M.' .W.'.Grand Lodge of California:

1Jn ~ranb 14obge
Morning Session.
Thursday, October .14, 1920.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding. The minutes of yesterday's sessions
were read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
Past Master Wellesley, chairman of the Committee on
Charters, presented the following reports:
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters, to whom was referred the petitions for charters of the following Lodges, to which dispensations
have been issued during the past Masonic year, to wit: Coachella
Lodge at Coachella, Temblor Lodge at Fellows, Thousand Oaks
at Berkeley, Golden Rule at San Jose, Fellowship at Oakland,
Clarence F . Smith at Los Angeles, Bell at Bell, Garvanza at Los
Angeles and Albert Pike at Los Angeles, now reports :
Your committee has examined the records of said Lodges prescribed by Sections 74 and 75 of the Constitution ; also their dispensations, by-laws and books of records of meetings. We fi~d
that the records of said Lodges are in proper form and kept m
a neat and accurate manner. We further find that said Lodges
are clear of all debts. We, therefore, recommend that charters be
granted to the aforesaid Lodges, to be numbered as follows:
CoacheUa Lodge No. 476, at Coachella.
Temblor Lodge No. 477, at Fellows.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478, at Berkeley.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479, at San Jose.
Fellowship Lodge No. 480, at Oakland.
Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482, at Los Angeles.
Bell Lodge No. 483, at Bell.
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484, at Los Angeles.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492, at Los Angeles.

Adopted.

Your Committee on Charters, to whom were referred the petitions of Mount Davidson Lodge at San Francisco and Caledonia
Lodge at Bakersfield, to which dispensations have been issued
during the past Masonic year, respectfully reports as follows:
We have examined the records and reports of said Lodges to
the Grand Lodge, their dispensations, by-laws, and books of
records of meetings. We find that the said records are in proper
form, neatly and accurately kept.
We recommend as to Mt. Davidson Lodge that the minutes
be kept in a more substantially bound book.
We also recommend as to Caledonia Lodge that the by-laws
and roster of members be kept in a more ·substantially bound book.
We, therefore, recommend as to Mt. Davidson Lo dge at San
Francisco that it be numbered 481 and as to Caledonia Lodge at
B'akersfield that it be numbered 486, and that charters be granted.

Adopted.
To the M.' .W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
-Your Committee on Charters, to whom were referred the
petitions fo r Charters of the following Lodges, to w hich disp~ n­
sations have been issued during the past Masonic y ear, to-wit:
America at Los Angeles, East Bay at South Berkeley, Corcoran at
Corcoran, and Acorn at Oakland, now reports :
Your committee has examined the records of said Lodges,
prescribed by Sections 74 and 75 of the Constitution. We have
examined the records and reports of said Lodges to the Grand
Lodge, their dispensations, by-laws, and records of meetings. We
find that the records of said Lodges have been kept in a complete
and satisfactory manner, and we therefore recommend that Charters be granted to the above named Lodges to be numbered as
follows:
America No. 475 at Los Angeles.
East Bay No. 489 at South Berkeley.
Corcoran No. 490 at Corcoran.
Acorn No. 494 at Oakland.

Adopted.

273

PROCEEDINGS 01'' TllE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the M.".w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters, to whom was referred the petitions for charters of the following Lodges, to which dispensations
have been issued during the past Masonic year to-wit: Vallejo
Lodge at Vallejo, Patterson Lodge at Patterson, Woodstock Lodge
at Alameda, and Atascadero Lodge at Atascadero, begs to report
as follows:
Your committee has examined the records of said Lodges a&
prescribed by the Constitution, also the reports of said Lodges to
the Grand Lodge, their dispensations, by-laws and records of
meetings.
We find as to Vallejo Lodge, at Vallejo, that their records are
ne'a t and accurate but kept in a careless manner in a common letter
file. We recommend that the Grand Master do not constitute said
Vallejo Lodge, at Vallejo, until he is satisfied that this condition
has been remedied.
We find as to Woodstock Lodge, at Alameda, we recommend
that 't he minutes be kept in a suitably bound book.

instances abbreviations used which we consider bad form . Further,
that the minutes fail to set forth in full the by-laws adopted by
the Lodge.

272

We find as to Atascadero Lodge: at Atascadero, that owing
to the fact that it has only recently been granted a dispensation,
that the records submitted are only temporary and should be
entered in permanent books, and recommend that this be done as
soon as possible.
We find that the records of all the above mentioned Lodges
are ·kept in due form as prescribed by the Constitution of the
Grand Lodge with the exceptions above noted.
We therefore recommend that charters be granted to the aforesaid Lodges to be numbered as follows:
Vallejo Lodge No. 487, at Vallejo.
Patterson Lodge No. 488, at Patterson,
Woodstock Lodge.No. 491, at Alameda.
Atascadero Lodge No. 493, at Atascadero.

We recommend that the minutes of the preliminary, stated and
special meetings be properly written, and all abbreviations eliminated. That the names of the members on the by-laws be written
in full; that the by-laws as adopted be spread in full upon the
minutes, and that the records be kept in properly bound books.
It appearing to the committee that the community in which
the above named Lodge is established is sufficient both in population and resources to maintain and support a Masonic Lodge,
and that the members of this Lodge are sincere and enthusiastic
Masons, we recommend that a charter be granted to Chowchilla
Lodge, at Chowchilla, to be known as No. 485.

Adopted.
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters has had under consideration
twenty petitions for charters, accompanied by the same number
of dispensations.
These documents necessarily required the proper record books
for the completion of constituting these Lodges.
To our. dismay, we were confronted with loose typewritten
sheets, pocket size record books, loose leaf binders, .letter fi!es, all
sizes of minute books with permanent, and loose leaf bindings.
After serious and careful consideration, we offer the following
resolution:
Resolved, That in future all Lodges applying for dispensation
must secure from the Grand Secretary a Uniform Code of By-Laws
Book and Record Book as per sample now on file in the Grand
Sec_retary's office.

A. F. SOUZA,

Adopted.
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters, to whom was referred the petition for charter of Chowchilla Lodge, at Chowchilla, and to which a
dispensation was issued on May 29, 1920, now reports:
We find first, that the minutes ·o f the preliminary, stated, and
special meetings have been incompletely written, and also in many

EDWARD C. C. Wr;LLr:su:v,
Gr:oRGll A. M1LUR,
Gr:oRGr: A. GRIFFIN,
MAuR1cr: F. Dvr:R,
Committee.

Adopted.

275

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GROUP INITIATION
Past Master Wm. Penn Humphreys introduced a proposed amendrriertf ·to section 115 of the Constitution, to
perln.it initiatory ceremoi1ie~ ·in groups of five. Referred
to the C.onimittee on Gen'eral Policy and Purposes.

the several Inspectors, and your committee feels that this gracious
acknowledgment oL their services will inspire them towards continued efforts no\__,,9nl~ 'to bring· ab~ut even a more . noticeable
improvement in ritualistic 'V{Or~:-the importance of which _cannot
he over-emphasized-but also "to ·give the g reatest effectiveness
to such .policies as the Grand Master and the Grand Lodge may
desire to promote during the coming years. .

274

ALFRED

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GR.AND LECTURER'S
.
.., .. ·. -. .
REPORT
Paul Burk's, chairman, presented the report of his commhtee_pn the Report of the Grand Lecturer, as follows:
To the M.' . W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee to which was referred the report of the Grand
Lecturer deems it a privilege to commend the zeal for our Institution and for all things affecting its welfare which has at all
times, but especially durin.g the past year, been so conspicuqusly
manifested by our V.' .W.'. G'r and Lecturer,. Thoma; J. Baker.
Grand ·Lodge and the brethren of this jurisdiction have ·not hesitated
to :· indicate their appreciation of his devoted and indefatigable
exertions to serve the interests of the Craft during a year which
h~s !Jlape extra.ordinary demapds . upon his time, patience and
energy. His spirit of helpfulness,, co.urtesy and kindness, which
has been so habitually manifested, not only to the In spectors, but
also
the officers and brethren of Grand Lodge ·and its constituent Lodg'e s, has given and earned for him a lasting place in the
sincere affections of the · entire Fraternity.
It . is with satisfaction that your committee notes the statements contained in the rep ort with reference to the increased
at~endance and amused interest at both stated and special meetings. (rn:>twithstanding the high pressure unde.r which most constituent Lodges have been compelled to work during this year
which has marked the greatest growth of the Fra.ternity), which
has been, to a noticeable extent, promoted by the manner in which
the views of our Grand Master with respect to the work of
Masonic education have been carried out.
The conclusion of the Grand Lecturer that improvement in
morale and incr.e ased efficiency has resulted from the formation
of M'a ster.s' and Wardens' Clubs and from taking time to furnish
members .of constituent Lodges with programs which are designed
to furnish entertainment and instruction respecting matters not
purely ritualistic, should arrest our attention.
The Grand Lecturer pays a well deserved tribute to the excellent work performed and valuable assistance rendered to him by

to..

E. HOFMANN,

HORACE W. R ICE,
P AUL BURKS,

Commit·tee.

Adopted.

STATU S OF DAUGHTERS OF. MASONS
Past Master Bruck introduced the following:
Whereas, The question of relief to the daughters of Masons is
one of great importance, and which has repeatedly been brought
before this Grand Lodge for definition; and
·
Whereas, T he various jurisdictions have differing rules and
regulations regarding this matter ; a nd
Whereas, T he rights of daughters of Masons are indefinite;
therefore be it
Resolved, T hat the Committee on General P olicy and Purposes be re quested to fully investigate the subject and report to
this Grand Lodge some definite solution of this problem at its
next annu al communication.

It was so referred.

NEAR EAST RELIEF
A resolution was presented in behalf of Near East
Relief, and . it was referred to the Comm_itte~ on General
Policy and Purposes.
_ ... . ~ .
..,

;

.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Past Master Whited, chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence, presented his report; and printed copie!l
being in the hands of Representatives, it was accepted
without reading.
Gran d Lodge was then called off until 1 :30 o'clock.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF TH~~

. 276

3J u <&ran~ ijo~gr
Afternoon Session.
Thursday, October 14, PJ20.
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 o'clock, the Grand.
:'.\faster presiding.

DISPOSITION OF MOTION PICTU R ES
· The Finance Committee presented the following:
The Grand Lodge of California, reposing entire confidence not
only in the integrity but the sound business judgment of the members of the Endowment Committee, hereby recommends that said
committee be and is empowered to attend to all details in connection with the sending an,d displ~y of the films of the Masonic
Homes of California to the several Lodges of the jurisdiction.
A.

s. CRITES,

WM. P. JEFFRIES,
H.

c. KL!VESAHL,

G. A. HUTAFF,
LEO BRUCK,

Committee.

Adopted . .

REPORT OF MASONI C TEMPLE ASSOCIATIO N
The following report of the Masonic Temple Association was presented by Brother William H. Crocker and
referred to the Committee on Finance:
To the M.".W." .Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Directors of the Masonic Temple Association
of California are pleased to submit herewith the followini statement of receipts and disbursements from September 1, 1919, to
September 1, 1920.
Receipts
Balance on hand September 1, 1919............................................$ 6,980.86
From rentals .................~ .................................................................... 36,539.11
Discounts, etc....................................................................................
14.93
Appropriation of Grand Lodge for purchase of stock .......... 25,000.00
$67,934.90

277

Disbursements
Taxes ............................:......................:........................~ .....................$ 8,641.80
Interest .........................................................................................~... 9,777.82
Incidental expenses.......................................................................... 5,510.30
Superintendence and janitor service.......................................... 6,613.65
Alterations, repairs and improvements.................................... 2,369.80
Insurance ..........................................................................................
970.07
Reduction af mortgage.,.............................................................•.. 25,000.00
$58,883.44

Cash on hand .......................................................c••••••••••••••••••••$ 9,051 .46
The statement submitted shows unusuai expenditures for
alterations and repairs. These were made necessary because of
certain renovatio ns to some of the furnishings of the building
caused by wear and tear, and also because of the enlarging of the
rooms occupied by the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge and
the Grand Recorder of the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons
and the Grand Commandery of Knights Templar, made necessary
by the ever increasing work of their offices.
This add itional expense over our usual expenditures and the
higher cost of janitor service, materials and supplies, caused the
Board to take action which resulted in an increase of fro m twenty
to twenty-five per cent in the rentals of the "'Masonic Lodges and
other bodies who are tenants of the building.
We are pleased to point to the fact that if the interest charges
on our loan were eliminated a profit of over $1 ,000.00 per month
would have been made this year.
The Board of Directors for the past ten years has held monthly
meetings for the purpose of giving every possible attention to the
business of the Association and the needs of the Temple, and we
feel that our best efforts have been put forth to conserve the
interests of this Grand Lodge and the stockholders of the Temple
Association.
In accordance with the evident desirability of reducing oiir
mortgaged indebtedness at the earliest possible m omen t, we ijµggest t.hat the Grand Lodge again appropriate funds for the , purchase of stock in the Temple Association in such. substantial
amount as it can afford.
Fraternally submitted,
MASONIC TEMPU: ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA.

By WM. H . CROCKl!R,
President.

Referred to Committee on F inance.

PROCEEDINGS OF Tl!!;;

278

279

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
I

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M.".W.' .Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee to whom was referred the following trial
records, to-wit:
Record No. 265-McKinlay Lodge No. 347.
Record No. 267-Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
Record No. 269-Lodi Lodge No. 256.
Record No. 270---Hiram Lodge No. ·43.
Record No. 273-Silver Gate Lodge No. 296.
Record No. 274-Eel River Lodge No. 147.
Record No. 276---Argonaut Lodge No. 461.
Record No. 277-California Lodge No. 1.
Record No. 278---San Pedro Lods-e No. 322.
Record No. 279-Palestine Lodge No. 351.
Record No. 281-East Gate Lodge No. 290. (Tded in Wilshire
Lodge No. 445:)
'
'
· Record No. 282-Suisun Lodge No. 55.
Respectfully reports that it finds the records . in each of the
above mentioned cases complete. In none of these cases w;is there
an appeal. and substantial justice appears to have be.e n done in all
of them . . This committee, therefore, offers the following resolution, and recommoods its adoption:
Resolved, That the decision in each of the cases herein above
mentioned, and the action of the Lodge thereon be, and th'e same
is, hereby · approved.
.

Adopted.
To the M.".W.'.Grand Lodge of California: ,
Your Committee on Grievances, to' whom was referred Trial
Record No. 268, respectfully reports :
Charges w~re preferred again~t the ac~used by a Mas'ter Mason,
a member of Albia Lodge No. 633, of Texas. The accused ·was a
- member of Or0 vllle Lodge N_o. 103, of . this · jurisc:liction. .. The
offense was alleged to have been com'mitted at Bisbee;' Ari~ona.
The accused came to Oroville and attended the trial ·in · person.
The accuser did not attend. The Commissioners· found .· the defendant not guilty and an appeal was taken by the accuser. A
careful examination of the record fails to show any satisfactory
evidence in support of the charges, and we are of the opinion that
the evidence would not have supported any other findings than
those made. Affidavits on behalf of the accuser were offered.

These, not being in accordance with our rules, were properly
rejected by· the Master.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and . move its
adoption:
..
. Resolved, That the verdict _of .the Trial Commissioners in Trial .,
Record No. 268, be sustained.

Adopted.
To the M.'.W." .Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial
Re.cord No. 98, acc_o~pai;iied by the petition of S. B: A., for restoration to the rights . and prjyileges of . Free Masonry.; respectfully
reports:
The record in th is case shows that petitioner was charged in
the criminal courts of the State of California with the offense of
murdering a brother Mason, a :.member of Lodi Lodge No, 256,
of which said petitioner at the time was , also a member. At the
tdat ' of said case" petitioner ~as found guilty of murder and later
sentenced to imprisonment for life in the State penitentiary. ·
. Following th is sentence charges . were preferred against petitioner in said Lodi Lodge -No. 256. He was found guilty and sentepced to expulsion. After' serving a number of years the p.e titioner
was pardoned oy the Governor and restored to citizenship. He
now asks t'o be restored to.all the rights and privileges of Masonry,
He. as well as his sponsors, urge as reasons for his restorationexcuse for the act-his present good conduct, and the fact that he
has .been so pardoned and restored to citizenship. Upon notice to
his . Lodge of his present application, the Lodge voted to protest
aiain'st the granting of his petition and appointed a committee to.
present such protest to · this Grand Lodge. Said committee
appeared before the Committee on Grievances and filed protests
signed by many members of said Lodi Lodge arid many Masons
living in the vicinity of L odi, and also voiced its strong protest
against the restoration of petitioner. Considering the record in
this case, the strong protest of those best acquainted with all of
the facts, and the enormity of the offense of which, the accused
was found guilty, your Committee on Grievances is of the opinion
that the petition for restoration of said petitioner should be denied.
·· · ·We therefore offer the following · resolution and move its
adoption:
Resolved. That ·the petiti011 of S. B. A. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Free Masonry be and the same is hereby
1lenied. .

Adopted.

280

GRAND LODGE OF CALU'OHNIA

PROCEEDING::'I OF THE

To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge _of California:
Your. Committee on Griev~nces, to whom was referred Trial
Record No. 266, reports as follows:
The accused was found guilty as charged and the sentence of
expulsion imposed, from which decision and judgment the accused
has appealed. There is ample evidence in the record to show that
the accused was guilty as charged, and you.r committee is of opinion
that substantial justice has been done and offers the following
resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, That the verdict of the Commissioners in Trial
Record No. 266 be, and the same is hereby sustained.

Adopted.
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances' and Appeals, to whom was
referred · the petitiQn · of A. · P. H . ·for restoration, respectfully
reports :
·
·
Petitioner was in April, 1912, tried and suspended by Crockett
Lodge No. 139. The charge upon which the accused was found
g"u ilty was an act involving un-Masonic conduct of ·a serious nature,
and Crockett Lodge has twice ·refused to restore the accused; and
it appears that · a very considerable portion ·of the Lodge voted
against restoration, and several Masons, including f~ading members
of the Lodge, have personally appeared before your committe·e for
the purpose of voicing ·their protest against the ·granting: cif the
petition. I _n short, it has been made to appear to this com~ittee
that a number of Masons acquainted with the circumstances' 'a:re
strongly opposed to restoration being granted.
. ·
. Your committee therefore offers the following resolution, and
recommends its adoption:
·
"'
·
•I•
Resolved, That the petition f~r re~toration be denied.

Adopted:
To tlie M.".W.".Grand l:odge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to · whom was referred Trial
Record No. 272, reports as follows:
. The, accused was tried by a Lodge other than the one of
which he was a member and was found guilty. The Trial Commissioners fixed the penalty of expulsion, from which the accused
appealed. The evidence fully justifies the findings of the Trial

28.1

Commissioners. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption :
Resol~ed, That the verdict of the Trial Commissioners in the
Trial Record No. 272 be sustained'.

Adopted.
To the M." .W.".Grand Lodge of Californ\a:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the·
petition of A. C. for restoration to the rights and privileges 9f
Masonry, reports as follows:
Trial Record No. _264 disc\oses that the petitioner was expelled
from Moneta Lodge No. 405 February 9, 1912. The petition has
been favorably recommended by the Lodge which expelled the
petitioner. There have also been presented oral and written statements, including documents from his superior officers in the United
States army testifying to the exemplary conduct of the petitioner.
We believe that the applicant has so conducted himself since
his expulsion that he is worthy of being restored to the rights and
privileges of Masonry. Your committee, therefore, offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That the petition of A. C. be granted and that he
be and is hereby restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.

Adopted.
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom has been referred
.Trial Record No. 271, _respectfully reports as follows:
In the opinion of your committee, the charges in this case are
not drawn in conformity with sect ion 190 of the Constitution,
which provides that the charges shall set forth with clearness
and precision (among other th ings) the plate where the offense
was committed. In this case the charge fails to state where the
alleged offense was committed, and due objection was made to
the sufficiency of the charg1e in th is respect and overruled by the
Master, and the trial proceeded and the accused found guilty.
Your committee is of the opinion that some attempt must be
made to follo~ our Constitution in the preparation of charges
against brother Masons, and that the ruling complained of was
reversible error. It therefore becomes unnecessary to pass upon
the other questions. But for the guidance of the Lodge in the
future trial of this case, we would state that we have considered

2s3' ·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the objection . made that the alleged confessions- of.. the : ac.cused
were inadmissible under section 202 of the Constitution, which
provides that "admissions or confessions of the accused in .courts
of the land, or before the commission at that or a . pre~ious, .trial,
are admissible," and the contention is made that this 'ta.n guage, by
implication at least, excludes confessions and admissions made
under all other circumstances; and the confessions and admissions
in this case were not included in either of the clauses mentioned
in said section 202, but were confessions alleged to have been ~ade
tq various members of the Lodge.
·
We are inclined to the opinion that the fact that certain c.Onfessions and admissions are made admissible, does not forbid the
introduction of proof of other confessions and admissions, where
the same would be admissible under the laws of · the State .of
California, unless the section specifically excluded . the same. .. ,
~
We therefore offer the following resolution and move iu
adoption :
·
·

Case No. 196. L. L. K., expelled by Nicolaus Lodge No. 129,
in April, 1916. The charge upon wh ich the petitioner h ad be~n
found guilty both in the Superior Court of Placer county, and m
his Lo4ge, was "of such serious nature" that in the Superior Court
he was sentenced to imprisonment for the term of five and onehalf y,ears, of which term he served, according to his application,
one yea~ - and two months, when he was paroled, and on October
29 1919 he was restored to citizenship by the Governor of the
St~te. Notice. of his intention to apply for restoration was given
to Nicolaus Lodge, but the record does not show what action
thereon, if any, was taken by the Lodge. The application is
accompanied by letters of the former Sheriff, of the District Attorney a"nd Judge of the Superior Court of Placer county, in which
they com.m end the con'duct of the applicant since .hi~ parole. . In
view of the character of the offense for the comm1ss1on of which
the petitioner was expelled, we do not, however, feel . that. a sufficient showing- has yet been made to justify favorable action on
the application. We therefore recommend the adoption of the
following resolution:
. Resolyed, That the petition of L. L. K. for restoration be
denied.

282

'

I

•:

•

'

t

'

•

.
Resolved, That the verdict be set aside and .the case be and
is hereby remanded for a new trial. .

The report and resolution were adopted.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom were referred certain
petitions for restoration to the rights and privileges of Maso~ry,
reports as follows:
Case No. 84: A. J. F., expelled by Live Oak fod~e No. 61,
on March 4, 1910. The petitioner had been found guilty of having
forged a receipt with intent to defraud a certain estate · in the
county of Alameda, for which offense he had been found guilty in
the Superior Court and sentenced to imprisonment in the State ·
prison for one year.
The application for restoration recei_ved the unanimous approval of the members of Live Oak Lodge, present at a meeting
held on August 6, 1920, and statements strongly favoring the petitioner have been made to your committee. No objection of any
nature has been raised to granting the petition so far as the committee has been .able to determine. Your committee offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That the petition of A. J. F. be granted and that
said petitioner be and he is hereby restored to the rights and
privileges of Masonry.

' Adopted.

Case No. 144. W. S. J. R .. expelled by Corona Lodge No. 324,
A~g1;1st 7, 1913. The · petitioner was found guilty of ha;in.g
committed the crime of grand larceny, and from the recotd, 1t 1s
apparent that he was confined in the State prison at the time of the
hearing in Corona Lodge. Notice of the application was duly
give~ to Corona Lodge, but it appears that no action was ~aken
upon it because of the fact that the petitioner had not resided in
Pasadena for some years. His residence is given as at Stockton,
and he has submitted to the committee letters of recommendation
from several members of the Craft. We are not sat"isfied that
petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated that he has made restitution o.f the property wrongfully taken by him, or that he has
uinsfated himself in the favor of a reasonable number of the
members of the Fraternity. We do not feel that we should
recommend . that one expelled from the Order should be restored
simply upon the showing that a few brothers recommend his
re~toration . We therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
.
Resolved, That the petition· o_f W . S. J. R. for resto.ration he'
denied.

Adopted.

,1

285

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Case No. 275. T. H., expelled by Sotoyom:e Lodge No. 123,
in 1891. The proceedings · of the Grand Lodge for the year 1891
show that the petitioner was expelled on a very serious charge.
Notice of the application was given to Sotoyome· Lodge, and the
Secretary of ·that Lodge reports that "recommendation was withheld," which action leaves the application without any support,
other than the statements of the applicant him'S·e lf. No sufficient
showing for restoration being made, we recommend · the adoption
of the following resolution: ·
''". • ·
Resolved, That the petition of T. H. for restbration be deniecl . .

ness of recommendations coming from such a source, yet we are
not convinced that restoration should be granted without further
showing. We recommend the adoption of the following resolution :
Resolved, That the a.p plication of Eldred H. Connick be denied
without prejudice to a renewal thereof.

J. P. B1'RNHARD,
E. B. Pawn,
LEO YOUNGSWORTH,

w ALTER F. HAAS,
GEORGI( L. }ON1'S,

Committee.

Adopted.

Adopted.
Case 245. · E. H. C., suspended by Grand Lodge in 1918, after
ttial in Arcata Lodge No. 106. Following conviction in the Federal
Courts on ~he charge of ·defrauding the Government, and the imposition of a fine of $300.00, the charges were filed against him in
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, and the proceedings were transferred to
Arcata Lodge No. 106. He was found guilty and the sentence C.•f
reprimand was fixed by the commission, whieh sentence was, however, set aside by the Grand Lodge and tt!'tiien'a lty of suspensio11
imposed. In his application, ·it is stated t_h at the petitioner hacl
heretofore made application to Arcata L~«Ige 'for restoration, bnt
that that Lodge declined to act in the matte} ort the ground that
it had no jurisdiction, as the Grand t~dge' ha'd substituted its
judgment and the sentence of suspeiisio~· fo'r ' the judgment a111!
sentence <>f Arcata Lodge. Section 212 ~f thb' 'Con's titution proviclt•s
t'hat "whenever any Mason, sus'perid'~d for tfrt'-Masonic cond.ut·t,
desires to petition the Grand Lodge
restotfltion . . . . , lw
shall first m~ke application for such restoration' fo the Lodge by
wh:ch he was suspended . . . . If his application be there refuse1l.
it may then be ·made to ' the Grai1d Lodge, provided -that notice, i11
writin;,t. be given to the Lodge of" such ·intended application not
less than forty days preceding fhe annual communication." . ln
our opinion, it should be held that the action of the Grand . Lodge ·
in imp.osing the sentence o'f suspension did not deprive Arcata
I odge of jurisdiction to act upon the application, for we belie'\OC
that the Lodge, in which the case was tried, is' called upon to first
pass on the matter of restoration. If it should, however, be
claimed that the action of Arcata Lodge was, in effect, a refusal
to restore, then the petitioner should here show that notice of
his intention to apply to the Grand Lodge was given Arcata Lodge.
No distinct proof of the service of ahy such notice is ll}ade. We
hirthrr find that the application is only supported by letters of
two n.embers of the Craft, and while we appreciate the persuasive-

for

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GENERAL POLICY
AN D P U RPOSES
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California :
Masonic Service Association.-Y our Committee on General
Policy and Purposes has given careful consideration to the resolution by Past Grand Master William Rhodes Hervey, introduced
at our last Annual Communication, approving the constitution of
the Masonic Service Association of the United States, and recommending that the Grand Lodge of California join su.ch .association. We have also in connection with. and necessary to such
consideration. carefully examined the proceedings of the first
triennial meeting of this association, held at Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
in November of fast year.
Our consideration of the subject and of the aim~ and purposes
· of the Association has been greatly helped by communications
from the distinguished brethren who may justly be said to be the
fathers and sponsors of the idea, and particularly were we enlightened and edified by the opportunity of meeting with these brethren
personally, and learning from them at fi rst hand their views and
their aspirations.
At the outset, wc conceive that it would not be amiss for the
Grand Lodge to know just what this Association is or purports to
be. Generally, it is an Association composed of the representatives of the various Grand Jurisdictions of the United States, intending now to meet annually, and having for its expressed purpose
two main and special aims and other general ambitious aspirations.
The Association had its genesis in the real or fancied needs for
distinctively Masonic relief work which arose out of the emergencies of war, and so impressed Were the brethren who formed this

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Association with .the necessity for a nationally-administered relief
work, that they believed the time was ripe for such an organization as this which would have for one of its main purposes a
nati~nal fun,d, and a national organization to distribute _that fund
in situations of dire emergency.
The second main p_urpose is the dissemination of what is
generally termed Masonic knowledge, and this, it is conceived, can
best be done by a national organization.
Your committee has not been able t.o reach a unanimous conclusion as to- the advisability of identifying ourselves with this
organization, or of definitely refusing so to do. It has therefore
seemed better to allow another twelve months for observation of
the organization and its workings, as well as to give the same
opportunity to . further work out our own State plan of Masonic
education.
If such observation of the workings of the Association at first
hand could be obtained we are of the opinion that we could more
inte.llig_ently decide at 'our next Ann~al Communication whether
or -not it is advisable to definitely ally ourselves with the National
Association.
We t.herefore recommend that the decision of this Grand
Jurisdic~ion be held in. abeyance until the next Communication of
Grand Lodge, and that the Grand Master and Grand Secretary
attend the annual meeting of the Masonic Service Association, to
be held in St. Louis on November 9th, 10th and 11th of this year.

amendment, especially as it is the opinion of the Jurisprudence
Committee that other difficulties would be encountered in_ -. the
effort to so amend the Constitution. We therefore m~~e no
recommendation with reference to the propose.cl amendment.

·Report. and recommendation adopted.
Remission of Dues.-Y our Committee on General Policy and
Purposes has had under consid~ration the policy of the recomme11dations of the Grand Master for · new legislation, and as to
such' policy we beg leave to report as follows:
The Grand Maste; points out that under the provisions of the
third subdivision of section 41 of the Constitution, unless remission of dues of the member is made at the stated meeting in July,
for ·the preceding twelve months, a Lodge is not exempt . from
Grand Lodge dues on account of such member, and recommends
that ' s"u ch third subdivision· be so amended as to relieve the subordinate Lodge fro"t'n · paying the per capita tax on any · Mason
whose dues may have been remitted at any stated meeting during
the year: Your committee has considered this matter in joint
se~sion with the Committee on Jurisprudence, and it is the unanimous opinion of both . committees· that the situation does · not
present sufficient difficulty at present to justify the proposed

28i

Bi-Monthly Circular.-! t is apparent, as the Grand Master
points out, that the requirements of the tenth subdivision of section SO of the Constitution are unnecessarily burdensome and
impose upon the Grand Secretary much useless labor. We therefore recommend that the Grand Master's recommendation as to
the amendment of said section be adopted, and subject to the
approval of the Committee on Jurisprudence, suggest the following amendment, and recommend its adopt_ion:
Resolved, That the tenth part of Sec. SO, Art. IV, Part II,
of the Constitution be amended by striking out the words "To
transmit to each Lodge within the jurisdiction a list of all expulsions, suspensions and restorations, of which he shall have been
notified by the several Lodges and shall" and by adding, before
the remainder of this tenth paott of section SO, the word "To" and
by inserting, after the word "suspensions," the word "rejections,"
so that the tenth part of section SO shall read as follows:
10th. To keep in his office a full and compl~te list and record
··o f a ll expulsions, suspensions, rejectfons and restora.t ions, of which
he shall be notified by the several Lodges.
0

The Jurisprudence Committee reported concurrence,
and. thereupon the 10th subdivision of section 50 ' was
amended as above set out by unanimous vote.
Life Memberships to Veteran Masons.-Your committee has
noted the suggestions of the Grand Master upon the subject of
giving life memberships to veterans who sha:ll have been active
members of the Fraternity for a certain period of years, and are
of the opinion that no good purpose can be served by changing
our existing regulations in that regard, and therefore recommend
that no action be taken ·upon this subject.
Amendment to Section 127.-The Grand Master's recommendations as to permissible circularizing or other communication between Lodges, and his proposed amendment of our existing legislation, have had our consideration, and believe that t.he purpose
sought can be as well if not better served by amending sectioµ 127
so that the concludijlg portion thereof shall read as follows:
"Nor shall any Lodge send out any circular, or other communication to Lodges or Masons concerning legislation to be ' brought

G RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

289

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

288

before the Grand Lodge, without the permission of the Grand
Master, nor shall any Lodge send out any circular or other communication to Lodges or Masons concern_ing the election of
officers in the Grand Lodge."
Inasmuch as the foregoing is suggested with the approval of
the Committee on Jurisprudence, we recommend its adoption
without further reference.

Adopted, and section 127 was amended by unanimous
vote.
Group Balloting.-The suggestions and recommendations of
the Grand Master on the subject of balloting for candidates in
groups, seem to your committee well taken, and we recommend,
subject to the approval of the Committee on Jurisprudence as to
form, the anncxetl amendments to our laws, for the purpose of
putting such plan into practicable .shape.

Resolution to amend section 103 was referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence. '
Return of Fees.-As to the Grand Master's recommendation
for a reframing of our legislation with reference to the manner of
the return of fees, it is the judgment of your committee, after
consultation with the Committee on Jurisprudence, that such re~
framing involves too much labor to be practically taken up at this
·time. We would therefore recommend that the entire matter be
made the subject of consideration during the ensuing twelve
months, and reported on at our next annual communication.

Adopted.
Withdrawal of E. A. and F. C.-Your committee has spent
considerable time, and had extensive consultation, with the members of the Committee on Jurisprudence, in the consideration of
the Grand Master's recommendations upon the subject of the
withdrawal of Entered Apprentices or Fellow Craf.ts, and it ·is the
consensus of opinion of both co.mmittees that the situation presented does 11ot present ·s uch difficulty as to justify any addition
to our existing legislation. We therefore submit the suggestions
of the Grand Master, without recommendation, particularly in view
of the fact that the Grand Master has not seen his ·way clear to
make any distinct recommendation.
Amendment to Section 41.-The Grand Master recommends
that section 41 of the Constitution be entirely rewritten, that its

meaning may be made definitely certain. It is the opinion of the
committee, however, after consultation with the Committee on
Jurisprudence, that the decision of the Committee on Jurisprudence
upon Decision VII of the Grand Master, clarifies the section sufficiently, and therefore recommends that no action be taken in
this regard.

Grand Lodge did not concur, but directed that the
section be rewritten.
Review of Action of Master.-After careful consideration of
the comments of the Grand Master upon the meaning of our laws
on the subject of the review · of action of the Master of a Lodge,
we are of the opinion that his criticisms are well founded, and with
the approval of the Committee OIJ Jurisprudence, we suggest that
section 144 of the Constitution be amended by eliminating the
w~rds "in the manner provided in sections 175-183, so that the
section as amen.ded will read as follows:
"From the decisions of the Master there shall be no appeal
to the Lodge; but objections to such decisions may be· laid before
the Grand Master and dealt with by him."

Adopted, and section 144 of the Constitution was
unanimously amended as reported.
Petition of Acacia Lodge.-The recommendations of t he Grand
Master with reference to Acacia Lodge, together with the petition
of said Lodge for the right to return to the use of the German
language in its ritualistic work, have been referred t o this committee, and it is our opinion, both as a matter of policy and of
equity, that no special privileges or immunities should be extended
to any Lodges or individuals under this Grand Jurisdiction, and
inasmuch as the privilege of working in their respective languages
has been extended and continued to another Lodge working in the
German language, and to others working in the French and
Italian languages, respectively, we can see no good purpose in
perpetuating this inequality, and we therefore recommend that
the petition of Acacia Lodge No. 438 for grant of right to use
the German language be approved, and permission given by this
Grand Lodge in accordance w.ith said petition.

Report and . recommendation adopted.
District Deputy Grand Masters.-Your Committee on General
Policy ·and Purposes has given careful consideration to• the suggestions of the Grand Master looking to the reorganizat ion of t he

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

work of the present Inspectors, a.nd we believe that his suggestions
point out a needed change in our system.
We recommend the policy of creating the office of District
Deputy Gr;tnd .Master, such officers to assume all of the duties
now performed by the Inspectors, excepting the teaching of the
ritualistic work ; and we further recommend that the title of Inspect OT be done away with, and that there be appointed by the
Grand Lecturer such number of Deputy Grand Lecturers as in his
·judgment may seem best to perform thl\lse duties which have heretofore been performed by the Inspectors with re feren ce to the
ritualistic work. T o effectuate such changes the following amendments are· submitted, subject t o the approval of the Committee on
Jurisprudence.
Sec. 3. The Grand Lodge shall be composed of a Grand Master (etc.), Grand Tiler, and not to exceed seventy District Deputy
Grand Masters, whose addresses shall be Worshipful, together
with all ·the Past Grand officers (etc.).
Sec. 54. It shall be the duty of the Grand Lecturer to teach
the ritual and esoteric work to the Masters and other officers of
the Lodges; to visit the several districts and hold schools where
most convenient, and not o nly to exemplify the adopted work, but
to require conformity therewith. It shall atso be his· duty to
examine all applicants for commissions as Deputy Grand Lecturers
who may present themselves for that purpose, and report to the
Grand Master upon the qualifications of such applicants; provided,
that no such commissioa shall be issued to any one except to a
.present or actual Past Master. The commission· of the Deputy
Grand Lecturers shall expire February 1st of each year, unless
sooner revoked by the Grand Master. All applicants for commissions as Deputy Grand Lecturers shall be thoroughly examined as
to their proficiency in the work, ritual and lectures authorized by
the Grand Lodge, and as to their knowledge of the principles, laws,
rules, regulations, customs and usages of the Fraternity.
Sec. 55. The Grand Lecturer shall report to Grand Lodge · a
full and explicit account of his services during the year, and · of the
condition ·o f the Lodges throughou t the jurisdiction. He shall,
upon the approval . of the Grand Master, issue commissions to
Deputy Grand Lecturers, and may .examine officers of Lodges and
issue certificates of qualification to them. It shall be his duty also
to hold a Lodge, or Lodges, of instruction for the · benefit · of the
Craft, genfrally, immediately before, during, or immediately after
each annual communication of Grand Lodge. He shall receive such
compens"ation fo r his services as the Grand Lodge .s hall direct.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

291

Sec. 55a. The Grand Lecturer shall appoint, with th e approval
of the Grand Master, such Masters ;:i.nd Past Masters as may be
duly examined and found qualified as Deputy Grand Lecturers.
And shall assign each Deputy Grand Master to a district composed
of a Lodge, or Lodges. It shall be the duty of the Deputy Grand
Lecturer to visit each Lodge in his district whenever desired by a
Lodge, or whenever he may deem it necessary fo r the faithful performance of his duties; to inspect the work, correct the same in
accordance with the work as adopted by the Grand Lodge; and
to report the working condition of each Lodge in his district to
the Grand Lecturer on or before th e first day of September in
each year; also to instruct and qualify the officers of the Lodge,
or Lodges, in his district. Each Lodge shall pay such necessary
expenses of the Deputy Grand Lecturers as may be inc urred in
performing the duties herein required.
Sec. 56. The Grand Master shall divide the juris diction into
not to exceed seventy districts, having regard to population,
Lodges, and convenience, and shall annually appoint for each district one District Deputy Grand Master. Each such District
Deputy Grand Master shall be a resident of his respective district
and a member of some Lodge therein; provided, that in case there
shall be more than one district in a county the Deputies for such
.district must be residents of the county and members of Lodges
therein.
Sec. 57. Each District Deputy Grand Master shall visit each
Lodg~ in. his district at le~st <?nee in each year, ·and thoroughly
examme its reco rds and accounts, and fully inform himself as to
the condition of the Lodge, and make report thereof to th e Grand
Ma~ter. He shall inquir~ into the administration of the Lodge
affairs and make such suggestions to the officers as seem necessary
to insure a full compliance with Grand Lodge laws. They shall
perform such other duties !l-S may from time to time be assigned
to them by the Grand Master. For th e necessary expenses accruing from the performance of their duties, an itemized bill shall be
rendered to the Grand Master, who may order the same paid from
Grand Lodge funds. Each District Deputy Grand Master on
official visits, shall be received with Grand Honors. He ~hall
make an annual report to the Grand Master thirty days prior to
the annual communication of Grand Lodge, setting fo rth his
official acts during the year, the state of Masonry within his district. and suggesting such measures as to him may appear to be
conducive to the general good of the Fraternity. .He shall be
allowed transportation from the Representative Fund in t he same
manner as is allowed Representatives of Lodges.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sec. 136. Strike out fourth line, "the Inspector of the district
in which such Lodge is situated," and · insert "a Deputy Grand
Lecturer."
Sec. 137. Strike out fourth line, "the Inspector of the District
in which his Lodge is situated," and insert "a Deputy Grand Lecturer." Strike out a'tso all matter beginning "provided further,".
Sec. 139. Strike out fifth line, "from the Inspector of his
district."
Sec. 73. Twenty-sixth line to read "from the Grand Lecturer
or a Deputy Grand Lecturer."
Sec. 238. Amend to conform to appointment of Deputy Grand
Lecturers.

Expenditures for Social Purposes.-Your commi ttee has had
under copsi deration the resolution o ffered by Pas t Mas ter Coombs,
of Yount Lo dge No. 12, propo sing the amendment to section 89
of the Constitution, so as to permit L odges to expe nd in each
Masonic year 33 1/3 per cent of the ir total revenue fo r purposes
of refreshment.

292

The recommendation was adopted, and the Committee
on Jurisprudence was directed to submit amendments to
the Constitution in accordance therewith.
Courtesy W ork.-Y our committee have under consideratio.n the
suggestions of the Grand Secretary with reference to courtesy
work for other jurisdictions, and are of the opinion that such
custom as has prevailed in that regard in the past has been greatly
abused, due in part to war conditions; but it is our judgment now
and we make it as a recommendation, that in the future such
courtesy work should be sparirtgly done and only in cases of
manifest urgency or peculiar merit.

293

Your committee realizes that it is impossible to frame a general
rule which will not work seeming injustice in individual cases ; but
in view o f the fact that the L odges of this Grand Jurisdiction
managed their refreshment activities for a great many years on
IO per cent, we feel that they s hou ld at least have a longer trial
on the present increased allowance of 20 per cent before making
any further increase.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

The· report was adopted.
Business in t he First Degree.-The resolut ion of P as t Grand
Master Henderso n with reference t o the policy of having all business in Lodges co nducted whi le open o n the fi rst degree has had
our ca.reful con.sideratio n, but at th e suggestio n of the proposer,
who is a member of this committee, we recommend th at such
resolutio n be w ith drawn for fu r the r r evision, believing that it can
be so revised a s to better meet the purpose sought tha n it does
in its present form . We therefo r e so recommend.

Adopted.

L imit of Degrees t o Be Conferred.-There has been submitted
to your committee a resolution by Brother Shea, Past Master of
Rockridge Lodge No. 468, proposing that section 115 of the Constitution be amended so that not more than twelve degrees shall
be conferred by any Lodge within any one calendar month.

George Washington Memorial.-Your Committee on General
P olicy and Purposes is in r eceip t by reference to a le ng t hy tele·g ram from Past Grand Master L ewis A . Wat res, with refe rence to
the George Washington Masonic N atio nal Memo rial.

Group Initiations.- Thcre has also been submitted the resolution of William Penn Humphreys, Master of Occidental Lodge No·.
22, proposing to amend section 115 of the Constitution, providing in
effect for the so-called group p)an of initiation.

While this matter has been under considera tio n a t p revious
communicatio n s of the Grand Lodge, in terest in th is e nterp rise, and
particularly _con t ribu~ion thereto, was largely suspended during the
war and its succeeding unsettled co ndition.

While we are in hearty accord with the purposes sought in
these resolutions, it is not the judgment of the committee that the
best results can be obtained by the adoption of any of the suggestions embodied in the said resolutions. We, therefore, recommend
that tke same be not adopted.

It is the ju dgment of your committee that this subject is
again brought to o ur attention at t oo late a date t o permit us to
present an intelligent report at t his sessio n. We th erefore reco mmend that uo ac tion be taken upon th e Geo rge \ Vashington Masonic
National Memo rial a t this co mmunication.

Final action deferred until Friday.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

295

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

294

Boy Scouts of America.-There has been presented the following resolution:
Whereas, The future well-being of the community and the
nation depends in large measure up on the proper devel?pment of
boyhood and a recognition of the importance of orgamzed effort
in behalf of boys; and
Whereas, The Boy Scout movement, through more than ten
years of organization, has established itself as a perman~n.t and
powerful agency for the building of character and the trammg of
American citizenship ; and
Whereas The movement embodies those principles of honor,
loyalty and ~ttention to duty so essential to the mind and heart
of the growing generation ; and
Whereas We believe that this work should be encouraged
toward a wid,er range of influence among the boys of this country;
'therefore be it
·
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Acce~ted Masons
of the ju7isdiction of California does most earnestly mdorse and
approve the ideals, purposes and program of the Boy Scouts of
America; and be it further
.
. .
Resolved, That the members of the Fraternity under the Junsdiction of this Grand Lodge be and are invited to encourage and
promote the development of the boyh?od of California in every
city and community, through the medium of the Boy Scouts of
America.
There is no question of our hearty . approval of the spirit an.d
purpose of the foregoing resolutions, and we recommend their
adoption.

Adopted.
Masonic Emblems in Business.-We recommend that the resolution of Past Grand Master Henderson relative t o the. use of
Masonic emblems in business be referred to the Committee on
Jurisprudence.

BRADFORD WEBSTER,
WM. RHODES HERVEY,
O SCAR LA WU:R,
THOMAS FLINT,
ORRIN S. HENDERSON,
EUGENE
ELKUS,
JoHN H. McGEHEE,

s.

Committee.

Adopted.

MASONIC SERVICE TO PUBLIC EDUCATION ·
The following telegram from the State Superintendent
of Public Instruction was read:
Sacramento, October 12, 1920.
Charles Albert A dams,
Masonic Temp le,
San Francisco.
The County and City Superintendents, and other fri ends of
educatio n, join me in thanking you, and through you th e Masons
of California, for the splendid ser vice rendered public education
during public school week. You; purpose has been full y r ealized
and Californ,ia will be better for your thoughtful effort. Best
wishes.
W1LL C. Woon,

Supt. of Public Instruction.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
EDUCATION
To the Most Wor shipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Education begs leave to repor t
as follows:
Pursuant to the recommendations made by the Committee on
Masonic Education at the communication of the Grand L odge in
1919, a plan in furtherance of Masonic E ducation was fo rmulated
and aent early in the year by this committee to the Masters an<l
Wardens of all the Lodges of this Grand jurisdiction. In the plan
it was suggested that the officers of the Lodges in each I nspection
district should form themselves into an Association and meet
regularly to consider . ways and means for the advanceme nt of the
educational program approved by this Grand L odge. In ou tlining
the plan it was stated that Officers' Associations would afford
abun dant oppor t unity for a mutual exchange of constructive ideas
among the executives of the several L odges in each district. It
was emphasized that one of our greatest needs is concerted action;
that such gatherings would draw the Lodges in a given district
into a closer relationship, a broader vision of consistent work and
a better understanding of wise a nd efficient methods to be
employed.
It was suggest ed that well-informe d speakers migh t discuss
some broad problem of the day co ncerning good citizenship or
human welfare; that application o f Masonic principles should be

297

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

made thereto in practical .fashion. The thought underlying the
plan was that each officer would carry back to his_ o'."n Lodg~ the
information and inspiration gained at the Associat10n meetmgs.
It was further stated in the plan that the Committee on Masonic
Education in each of the four sections of the State would organize
a corps of the ablest Masonic speakers obtainable to address the
Lodges on evenings devoted to the cause of_ Masonr! and good
citizenship. The necessity was urged for takmg the time to h~ve
addresses given frequently. It was pointed out that no more important work could be done than to give to _the Craf~ the broade~t
and most comprehensive viewpoint concernmg questions of public
interest.
A partial list of topics was ~uggested with the admonition that
particular vigilance should be exercise~ to avoid any quest!on of
a · partisan nature. It was also emphasized that under _no c1rcu_mstances should formal action be taken by a Lodge on any question
presented. It was emphatically stated that talk_s and lectures were
purely educational and should never develop mto a debate upon
which a vote was to be taken.
With this plan in mind the committee proceeded to a further
development of the educational program. It has forwarded the
work under the following heads : First, "Organization of Officers'
Associations;" second, "Forming Speakers' Corps;" third, "Top~cs
for Discussion ;" fourth, "Attractive Meet_ings and How to Bu1l?,
Them·" fifth 1 "Publicity and How to Brmg Out the Members;
sixth '"] oint Meetings of Lodges in Inspection Districts;" seventh,
"Ma~s Meetings of Lodges in Cities." Wherever Officers' Associations have been formed and a consistent effort has been made
to develop that indispensable feature of the work, a marked success has been the inevitable result. Quoting from the report of
the V.".W.'.Grand Lecturer, who has had unusual advantage in
scru1!inizing the situation, he says, "The Masters' and Ward.ens'
Clubs have done much to stimulate interest and make suggest10ns
which I believe will have a benefi.cial and lasting effect and tend
to make Masonry a greater force in the community, as well as
inspire us all to practice out of the Lodge the lesson~ _incul~ ated
1
therein, thereby making us better Masons and better citizens.
Most enthusiastic reports have been received by this committee from Masters and Wardens of different districts concerning the
effectiveness of Officers' Associations.
Lack of time forbids quotations from but a few of the repo,ts
received: An Officers' Association from one of the outside districts reports in part as follows: "Aside from th"e lectures given
us by outside speakers, the meetings are open for _the discussion

of anything pertaining to Masonry in this district. We discuss
ways and means, thresh out problems, debate policies, and as a
result we are all of us carrying into our respective Lodges a
clearer idea of Masonry, a broader conception of its principles and
purposes and a better understanding of what our brother officers
in the other Lodges are doing. Our Wardens and Deacons are
receiving a liberal education in the duties incumbent upon them.
For the first time in years Masonry in each district is thoroughly
united in spirit and in purpose as a result of this Association. We
simply could not do without it. We have talked of meetings every
two weeks instead of once a month."
From an.o ther district come glowing reports of the remarkable influence of the Officers' Association. Once each month the
officers of the Lodges come from a di's tance of thirty to sixty
miles to confer regarqing their needs. The influence of such
meetings has had a marked effect in advancing Masonic enlightenment and understanding in that district.
In this connei:tion it is only fair to state that owing to unfavorable geographical conditions there are some districts in this jurisdiction so located that it will be practically impossible to form an
Officers' Association along the lines designated. It is to be hoped
that no effort will be spared in the districts where an Officers'
Association had not yet been formed to effect their speedy accomplishment at the earliest possible moment.
Regarding the organization of speakers' corps, we are pleased
to state that our brethren have in many cases given most generously of their time and talent. · One of the problems in this work
is to secure a sufficient number of well-informed speakers, men
who are recognized authorities in a particular branch of research.
This is not a period when our members are satisfied with
glittering generalities . This is the day when substantial facts are
apprec'iated by members of the Fraternity as never before, and
the greatest demand appears to be for dependable information
upon questions which are alive and of pressing public importance.
We need to see to it that Masonic speakers thoroughly unders tand · the spirit and the purpose of this Institution.
It has been the experience of this committee that all too
frequently requests for speakers have been mad_e on too short
notice.
It must constantly be borne in mind that the contributions
of our speakers. are purely voluntary and that all demands on the
time of busy men must be made with the utmost consideration.
Arrangements for speakers should be made at least ten days in

299

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

advance to afford them adequate opportunity for preparation and
to insure an attendance which will justify the effort to be put forth.
Regarding topics for discussion, this committee has been
compelled to allow considerable latitude regarding a wise choice
of subjects. Questions of a partisan nature have been referred to
in this report and their undesirability has been emphasized. All
· good citizens, and especially Masons, should be profoundly interested . in all broad questions whose discussion will make for a
higher type of citizenship.
Regarding the arrangement of programs, it is vital that musical
or other forms of entertainment should be in keeping with the
high ideals we are endeavoring to develop. Respecting publicity,
meetings of the character suggested by the committee are of
intense interest to the members of the Fraternity and should be
properly announced and advertised. We deprecate the tendency
of some to give publicity in the news columns of the daily press
of such meetings, and suggest as a Masonic alternative that special
thought and attention be given to printed announcements, to the
end that the form and substance may be interesting and attractive,
hereby attaining the desired purpose.
cannot too strongly
recommend the value of joint meetings of Lodges, that each member may receive full benefit therefrom. In the larger centers mass
meetings have produced remarkable interest and created a fine
spirit among the members of the Craft.
. · This committee desires to acknowledge the wonderful impetus
given to the work this year by the untiring efforts of the Most
Worshipful Grand Master. It is due largely to his zeal and vision
that substantial progress has been made in bringing {nto definite
shape the educational program. The effectiveness of any program
adopted by this Grar.d Lodge will in large measures depend upon
the active support of the Grand Master.
Your committee desires to make the following recommendations:
1. That the present form of organization of this committe.e be ·
continued.
2. That efforts be made to enlist the co-operation of every
Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction.
3. That Lodges be encouraged to execute constructive programs initiated by themselves, and that each Lodge be requested
to report the details of programs to this committee, that other
Lodges may benefit' by their a·ctivities.
4. That Masters develop the latent talent in their Lodges by
the introduction of short discussions.

5. That a correspondence lecture course be outlined for the
benefit of isolated Lodges.
6. That the committee co-operate with all the Lodges in
suggesting subjects and supplying speakers.
7. That the organization of Officers' Associations be continued throughout the State.
8. That an adequate appropriation be made for the work of
this committee.
Respectfully submitted,

298

IRVINC J. MITCHELL,'
CHARLES

H. V1cTOR,

ANDREW L. JOHNSTON,
PAUL BURKS,
JOHN

F. WEST,

Committee on Masonic Education.

Following the reading of the above report, Brother
Ralph A. Chase introduced the following, as

we

DIRECTIONS TO COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
EDUCATION
Whereas, The work of the Committee on Masonic Education
was re-organized and enlarged at our seventieth annual communication held in October of 1919, and one thousand dollars appropriated for the purpose of its enlarged work, which work was, by
the report of such committee, to be prosecuted with two aims:
first, to create "a better understanding of the basic principles for
which this Institution stands," and second, "the practical application of those principles to the great problems of the day;" and
Whereas, There is absolute need among our Lodges and the
Craft for education that will create a better understanding of its
basic principles for which this Institution stands, as well as education that wil1 inform our brethren on the moral, social and
economic questions of the day; and
Whereas, There has been a tendency in the educational meetings that have been held to dwell too much upon the evils of
anarchy, Bolshevism and socialism, questions that are not necessary to be impressed upon Masons, who are good and true men,
haters of anarchy and lovers of their country; and
Whereas, Our records do not show that after one year of
such speeches and mass meetings there has been an appreciable
increase in attendance at meetings where degrees are conferred,
which was a primary aim of this work; and

,'

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

Whereas, There has not yet been tried, to any ·considerable
l'Xtent, educational wo~k that teaches of the origin, history, traditions, philosophy, ethics and laws of Masonry, which are matters
coming under the first of the two aims of this educational work;
and which if undertaken with equal spirit may arouse a genuine
interest in Masonic study and may increase attendance at Lodge
meetings; now, therefore, it is
Resolved, That the Committee on Masonic Education be requested during the ensuing year to so formulate its work, that at
kast three out of every five speeches delivered through its speakers be on assigned subjects related to education in matters
Masonic, as was stated as the first of the two aims of this
enlarged work, and in accordance with this resolution.

The proposition of Brother Chase was not concurred in,
a11cl the report of the Committee was adopted as read.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 9 :30 o'clock
Friday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

301

a debt of gratitude to Stanford University, and particularly to its
President, Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur, for co-operation through its
Department of Pediatrics in permitting our Masonic Home for
Children to be served by Dr. Arthur J. Ritter and Dr. Harold K.
Faber, who have given of their time · and talents in mental and
physical surveys of the children. This work has been of exceptional value to the Home, and Grand Lodge hereby extends its
thanks in appreciation thereof.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the M.'.W.'.Grand_Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence reports as follows:
In · re'gard to the decisions reported by the Grand Master,
your Committee on Jurisprudence reports as follows:
Decisions.-By reason of the fact that the Grand Master has
stated with each decision his reason therefor, and inasmuch as in
the main his reasons appear to us to be good and to satisfactorily
explain the particular decision, our report is unusually brief.
Decision I is correct for the reason given by the Grand Master,
and we recommend that it be approved.

3Jn <&ranh 1£o1lpt
Morning Session.
Friday, October 15, 1920.

Decision II is correct for the reason given by the Grand
Master, and we recommend that it be approved.
Decision III appears manifestly correct, not only at "first
blush" but also after full consideration, as is amply shown by the
exhaustive discussion of the matter by the Grand Master. We
recommend that it be approved.

Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand
l\faster presiding.

Decision IV is in full accord with our law for the reasons
given by the Grand Master.

The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.

Decision V is correct ·as to both matters discussed, and nothing need be said in addition to what the Grand Master has said.
The expenditure for the Past Masters' jewel was fully authorized
by the amendment made to section 88 in 1919. We desire to
specially commend to the brethren the statements of the Grand
Master with relation to the portion of the revenue of a Lodge
available under our law in any one year for purpose of refreshment
and the promotion of fraternal intercourse. We recommend that
the decision be approved.

Past Grand Master Fitzgerald appeared and was accorded the honors due to him as a man a.n d distinguished
Mason.

THANKS TO STANFORD UNIVERSITY
The following resolution was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of California, in annual communication assembled, acknowledges

Decisions VI and VII. We approve that portion of Decision
VI which deals with the matter of the return of the whole fee
for the degrees when the petitioner dies after his election and

3U2

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

\
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

before receiving th_e first degree, and with the matter of the return
of the appropriate portion when the death occurs after the first
degree, or first and second degrees have been conferred.
With relation to the $20 fee for the Homes, it is also clear
that the same should be returned where,. before receiving any
degrees, the petitioner dies. A more difficult question is presented
as to the remaining matter discussed in the two decisions, the
solution being in the meaning to be attributed to the word -"initiate" as used in subdivision 1, of section 41 of the Constitution.
The question is one not free from doubt, in vie.w of various meanings that the word "initiate" bears, and the particular conne.c tion
in which it is used. We have concluded that it may fairly be read
as meaning any one coming into one of our Lodges by receiving
a degree or degrees therein as distinguished from one coming in
by affiliation, and as fixing the conferring of the first degree received in the Lodge as the thing which makes the $20 fee · for
the Homes payable to Grand Lodge. In a certain sense of the
word one is "initiated" in a Lodge when he first receives a degree
therein, and we are inclined to the conclusion that this was ·the
understanding of the Grand Lodge in its use · in section 41 of the
Constitution. Under this construction the Grand Master was right
in holding in Decision VI that when a petitioner dies after receiving his first degree and before receiving his · second degree, no
part of the $20 fee for the Homes could be ret1.trned; and also in
holding in Decision VII that an Entered Apprentice from another
jurisdiction coming into one of our Lodges must pay such fee.
We recommend both Decisions VI and VII be approved.

Adopted.
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
York Grand
Lodge.-Y our Committee ' on ] urisprudence, to
.
which was referred that part of the Grand Master's address in
relation to the York Grand Lodge of Mexico, has considered the .
matter referred to it, and is of the opinion that the Grand Master's
action as indicated by his letter to the Grand Master of the York
Grand Lodge of Mexico was based upon sound reasoning and a ·
thorough appreciation of the general Masonic laws governing such
matters and we therefore recommend that his action be approved
8y this Grand Lodge.

.

Adopted.

303

To the M.'.W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Petition of Eden Lodge.-Eden Lodge No. 113 has p.resented
an application for the adoption of a resolution by this body, giving
it concurrent jurisdictio·n with the Lodges of the city of Oakland
over certain territory that it has lost by reason of the annexation
of certain territory by said city. The petitionor may have a case
in this regard meriting relief at the hands of this Grand Lodge,
but in view of certain provisions of our Constitution which have
not been complied with in the matter of application, favorable
action cannot be had.
The whole matter is regulated by section 92A of t he Constitution. In · that section it is provided: "No such resolution shall
be adopted except upon the recommendation of the Grand Master,
and after reference to the Committee on ] urisprudence and report
thereon. Notice of the application for any such reso lution, with a
precise statement of the boundaries of the proposed t errit o ry, shall
be given by the applicant Lodge or Lodges at least thirty iiays
prior to the commencement of the Annual Communication of the
Grand Lo dge, at which the same is to be made, to each Lodge
whose jurisdiction will be affected by the proposed ·resolution."
The application here does not sufficiently describe th e te rritory
to be affected. The resolution of Eden Lodge request ing such
action by the Grand Lodge was adopted Octobe'r 4, 1920, only
eight days prior to the commencement of this communication.
The application is accompanied by th e consent of on ly one of the
Lodges of the city of Oakland, an d it does not appear that any,
such notice as· is required was given to any Lodge in th e city of
Oakland at any time. Certainly no such notice was given thirty
days prior to the commencement of this communication. If we
had evidence of the consent of all the Lodges of the city of Oakland, lawfully expressed at a stated meeting, we might hold that
the required notice was waived, but, as already stated, we have such
evidence only as to one of such Lodges.
We are forced to recommend that the application of Eden
Lodge be ·denied, with the suggestion that a future app lication
m ade in full accord with the re quirements of section 92A of our
Constitution will receive consideration at the hands of th is Body.

.Adopted.
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Minut e Books.- Your committee, to whom was referred the
r ecommendation -of the Grand Master with regard to t h e proposed
amendment of subdivisions on e and two of section 150, relative .

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

\

I

G RAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

by us, even though its entire membership be made up of Masons.
Probably upon the proper suggestion being mad.: to those in
authority, this particular language, and any other of a similar
character if such there be, would be eliminated from th e lecture
wherein it occurs. We sugges t that the incoming Grand Master
take such steps as will tend to accomplish s uch resu lt.
Further action in the premises at this time seemed unnecessary.

to the minute record books of a Secretary of a Lodge, report that
we are in entire accord with the recommendation of the Grand
Master.
We, therefore, recommend that subdivisions first and second
of section 150 of the Constitution be amended by combining the
same into a single subdivision, to be numbered "first," and to read
as follows:
"To record all proceedings at each meeting proper, to be
written under the direction of the Master, and to transcribe the
same in a Minute Book to be kept for that purpose, and at the
next stated meeting to submit the minutes so transcribed to the
Lodge for approval, or correction. and after the same are so
corrected and approved, to present the same to the Master for
his signature.

Adopted.

Adopted and section i SO was unanimously amended
as set forth above.
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California :
Crafts Councils.- Your Jurisprudence Committee have had
under careful consideration that part of the report of the Committee on the Gran.d Master's Message having to do with "Governing Crafts Couhcils," wherein we were requested "to prepare
suitable legislation making it a Masonic offense for brethren of
this jurisdiction to become members o f or to retain membership
i~ said Governing Crafts Councils, so long as said organization
continued in any manner to represent said organization as a
branch of Masonry."
Your committee is not sufficiently advised as to the plans
purposed or practices of the organization referred to, to render a
blanket indictment against any of ou·r members who may affiliate
therewith. Neither are we to be understood as in any wise expressing our approval of the organization or of its declared principles
or purposes. Fuller information as to the subject matter involved
is necessary to just action on our part.
.
If any individual Mason, by any sort of conduct or practice
inconsistent with our teachings, by becoming a member of the
organization referre·d to or otherwise, commits a Masonic offense,
there is ample opportunity and provision now, under existing law,
and in accordance with the principles of Masonic jurisprudence,
for his effective discipline.
In the ritualistic ceremony made available to us, the organization is referred to purely in a casual way as "this particular branch
of Masonry." Manifestly · it is no branch of Masonry recognized

305

•

To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California :
Recogn:tion of Foreign Jurisdictions.-'Your Committee on
Jurisprudence, to which has been referred that portion of the
Grand Master's Message with refe rence to recognition of foreign
jurisdictions and investigation necessarily incid11nt t hereto, and the
development of a plan for making such investigation, begs leave to
report :
That the di fficulties with refe re nce to a plan for in vestigation
that will be incident to recognition are so complex that no recomm enda tion should be made to this Grand L odge without investigation by a competent committee.
We therefore recommend that a committee of fiv e, to consist
of Charles Albert Adams, Grand Master; Charles L. Patton, Past
Grand Master; W illiam Rhodes Hervey, Past Grand 'Mast er; Jesse
M. Whited, and J ohn R. Ruckstell, be appoin ted for the purpose
of investigating the feasibilit y of an y plan for investigation of the
Continental European and South and Central American Grand
L odges, and reportin g thereon at the next communication of this
Grand Lodge.

And it was so ordered.
To the M.".W.".Grarid Lodge of California:
· Dispensations Ordered by Grand Masters.-Your Committee
o n Jurisprudence, to whom was re ferred that portion of t he Grand
Master's Message und er the heading of " Dispensations," have had
th e same under consideration and r eport t hereon as follows:
In the matter of petitions to reballot, and to receive petitions
fo r the · degrees without the required qualifications of residence,
and also without reference to a committee, the Grand Master has
exercised the discretion vested in hi m wisely and in accord with
our law. H e has investigated t he merits of each case. and decided
the questio n upon the facts presented; with due regard for th e
welfare of the Craft. This decision is final, and needs no action
by Grand Lodge to make it binding.

I
306

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3J7

• PROCEEDINGS OF THE

He reports that a Lodge requested a dispensation to hold
its stated meeting on January 8 instead of January 9, the date
fixed by its by-laws. Arrangements had been made with the Grand
Master for a joint installation of officers of this and four other
Lodges on January 9. The Grand Master advised the Lodge that
he had no authority to change the date fixed by the by-laws for
its stated meeting. ·Nevertheless, he issued a dispensation to the
Lodge "to transact at a special meeting to be held on June 8, 1920,
of which due notiCe to all members shall be given, such business
as would properly come before the stated meeting in January."
The Lodge had eight petitions and three applications upon which
to ballot, and there was other important business to be transacted.
Authority for this action is claimed under section 78 of our Constitution, whicb provides that no business of any kind (with certain
specified exceptions) shall be done at any other but a stated meeting, unless by dispensation from the Grand Master, as provided
in section 43. The latter section confers authority on the Grand
Master to exercise all the executive powers of Grand Lodge between communications. Executive powers are defined by section
9. The power to change the date of stated meetings of Lodges,
directly or indirectly, is not thereby vested in Grand Lodge or
the Grand Master.
We can see no distinction between the effect of a dispensation
authorizing the holding of a stated meeting at a date other than
that fixed by the by-laws, and one permitting in general terms the
transaction at a special meeting to be holden at another date of
all business that would properly come before such stated meeting.
The only difference would be in the designation of the kind of
meeting. The possW:iility of abuse would be the same in either
case. The members of the Lodge have adopte·d a by-law fixing
the date of stated meeting, and are bound by any action taken by
the Lodge at such meeting. It is their privilege and duty to attend,
or submit to the awards and resolutions of their brethren when
duly convened in accordance with the by-laws. They are not,
however, and should not be, required so to arrange their affairs
as to permit them to be present at any other time which may be
selected by the Grand . Master or anyone else. Occasions may
arise, like the one under consideration, where it would be more
convenient or advisable to hold a stated meeting at some time
other than that fixed, but we are of the opinion that the rights of
the members will be best preserved by adhering strictly to the law.
We, therefore, recommend that the acdon of the Grand Master
in issuing the dispensation be disapproved.

The report and recommendation were adopted.

To the" M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Approval of Life Memberships.-Your Committee on J urisprudence has examined the records of resolutions creating life
memberships, approved by the Grand Master, and find them to be
in accordance with the provisions of our Constitution.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master
in that regard be approved.

Adopted.
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
District Deputy Grand Masters.-There has been referred to
this committee a series of sixteen amendments to the Constitution, starting with section 3 thereof and including section 238
thereof. These amendments have been tentatively proposed by
the Committee on General Policy and Purposes as sufficient to
change all our provisions of law required to abandon our present
system of Inspectors and initiate a new and complete scheme
whereby these duties shall be performed by District Deputy Grand
Masters and Deputy Grand Lecturers.
Your committee has been unable in the btief time at its disposal to examine these proposed changes of our fundamental law
with sufficient care to recommend as to them at all, or even to
report that these particular changes will completely accomplish
the end sought.
we therefore recommend that this matter be referred to the
successors of both committees, and that its consideration be postponed to our next annual communication.

Report adopted.
To the M.'.W.'.Gran.d Lodge 'of California:
Use of Masonic Emblems in Business.-Past Grand Master
Henderson has introduced a series of resolutions intended to make
more definite the inhibition already contained in our law against
using Masonic emblems and the Masonic name in connection with
anything not strictly Masonic.
Your committee is, of the opinion that any such use of our
emulems and name is already prohibited, not only by our express
law · but that such a use is completely variant from the general
scheme of the Masonic organization:
It may be possible, however, that some of our members are
not sufficient!) versed in the general laws of the Order, or are not

309

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

so imbued with the principles of our Institution, as to app.reciate
just how serious a breach of this principle of Masonry is.
Past Grand Master Henderson has handed t_o us copies of the
laws of Illinois, l_owa, and Texas in relation to these matters, and
if it shall be desired "to have any definite legislation on the subject,
the committee recommends the following, substantially based on
the Illinois law, which may serve the ·purpose of calling the
attention of the Craft to this important subject:

each petitioner sha.11 be declared elected. If one or more black
halls appear, the Master may either direct an individual ballot or
tlivide the names of the petitioners iµto groups, and the Lodge
shall proceed to ballot in the usual manner on each individual or
on each group. The Master shall declare each petitioner in a
group elected if no black ball appear. The subdivision into groups
and this procedure shall continue until an individual ballot shall
have been taken if necessary, and all the petitioners shall have
heen balloted upon. Where an individual ballot is taken nothing
herein contained shall ~odify the method of balloting on individual
petitioners as elsewhere provided for in this Constitution."

303

Resolved, That the following regulations be adopted:
lf'7c. The use of Masonic emblems and devices on business
or political cards or signs, or by way of advertisement, except for
legitimate Masonic purposes, is strictly forbidden.
167d. No Mason shall give the Masonic name to any business,
concern, association, or calling, organized or prosecuted for profit
or for a livelihood.
lf'7 e. No Mason shall use or be a party to the using of the
word "Masonic" as a part of the style and title or designation of.
any . business firm, concern, company, association, or enterprise
whatever; unless such business shall be the printing or publication
of Masonic books, papers, or periodicals, or the manufacture and
sale of Masonic supplies, or unless it shall be a cemetery or burial
association, temple association, hospital, employment bureau, relief
association, or Masonic Club, conducted wholly by Masons and
only for the use and benefits of Masons or Masonry.

The report was adopted, and .sections 167c, 167d and
167e were added to the Constitution by unanimous vote.
Group Balloting.-The Committee on Jurisprudence submitted
the following:
Resolved, That Section 103, Article III, of the Constitution,
be amended by adding to the end ot the first sentence the words
"unless the alternative method provided in section 103Y, be used."
Resolved, That Article III of the Constitution be amended by_
the adoption of a new section, to be designated as section i03Y,
thereof, as follows:
"103Y,. The following alternative method of balloting may
be employed at the option of the Master, where three or more
petitions are to be balloted upon. The Master shall read the
names of the petitioners with the essential information about each,
as supplied by the petition and as furnished by the Committee of
Investigation, after which a ballot shall be taken in the usual
manner on the petitioners collectively, and if no black ball appears

The report was adopted, and section 103 was amended
and section 103_0 was added by unanimous vote. ·
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Twenty-Dollar Contribution for Masonic H omes.-In accord
with the desire of the Grand Lodge, your Committee on J urisprudence reports the following proposed amendment of the Constitution. Amend the first subdivision of section 41 by making the
same to read as follows:
"1st. For each degree it shall have conferred during the year,
the sum of one dollar; and for each initiate and for each affiliate
from a jurisdiction other than California, the sum of twenty dollars
for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes of California. The
word 'initiate' as used in this subdivision means any person seeking to acquire full membership in a Lodge who has received a'
degree. therein. Each Lodge shall transmit to the Gra.nd Secretary
on the first day of November, February, May and August of each
year all amounts due the Masonic Homes under this subdivision
which have come into its hands. One-half the sum thus obtained
for the Homes shall be set aside for the maintenance of the said
Homes and one-half thereof shall be set aside for permanent
improv~ment, and any surplus in either fund shall be allocated from
time to time by the Board of Trustees of said Masonic Homes to
the Endowment Fund."
FRANK M. ANC.ELLOTTJ,
CHAS. L~ PATTON,
BENJ. F. BUDSOE,
DANA R. WELLER,
ALBERT G. BURNETT,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
]OHN D. MURPHEY.

The report was adopted, and subdivision 1st of section
'1-1 of the Constitution was amended by unanimous vote.

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF RITUAL COMMITTEE

Accounts.-In accordance with the annual procedure, your
committee, through its accountant, Brother E. S. Valentine, has
examined the books and records of the Grand Treasurer and Grand
Secretary and has compared corresponding items and totals. Every
item of both receipts and disbursements has been properly entered
and accounted for by each of these two officers of the Grand Lodge,
and their accounts are in excellent shape and kept in an efficient
manner. The securities of the Grand Lodge held by the Grand
Treasurer or by the Anglo California Trust Company for him, have
been checked. All conform to the records and have the proper
coupons attached. The bank balances of the various funds have,
also. been verified and found to conform to the records. The
holding of Grand Lodge securities by a trust company saves the
Grand Treasurer much detail work. This manner of handling the
securities is commended.

To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Ritual, to whom, at the last annual communication, was referred the matter of a revision of the ritual, have
had the same under consideration, and beg leave to report as
fqllows:
As we understand the purpose of the reference, it was with the
idea of endeavoring to lessen the time at present consumed in
conferring the degrees, without, however, elim.inating any of the
portions essential to the proper explanation or elucidation of the
lessons sought to be inculcated.
With th.is end in view, we have carefully examined and considered the entire ritual, and have reached the conclusion that if
it is the desire of Grand Lodge to make any change, we believe the
following will reduce the time now necessary for the ritualistic
work, witl'!Out materially affecting its dignity, impressiveness or
continuity.
In the first degree lecture, omit the monitorial portion, as
will be explained by the Grand Lecturer.
In the third degree lecture, eliminate the history, as explained.
DANA R. WELLER,
WM. P. FILMER,
THOMAS }. BAKER,

Committee.

Consi.deration of this report which was presented
Thursday, was deferred until after the exemplification of
the "group plan," and Friday the matter was taken up and
the recommendation of the committee was lost, leaving all
ritualistic work as it is.

GENERAL REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE
The Finance Committee presented its general report,
and it was adopted as read, except that the salary of the
Grand · Lecturer was increased from $3900, as reported, to
$4200, and the allowance to the Grand Master was increased
from $200') to $2500: ·
To the M: .w: .Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance begs lea ve to report as follows :

311

Boards of Relief.-Your committee has also received and
checked and carefully considered the reports of the Boards of
Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, Sacramento,
Oakland. San Jose and Honolulu. These reports are eloquent
evidence of the splendid work being done by these Boards and of
the care given by this Grand Jurisdiction to distressed Masons
and . their families within our confines, no matter whence they hail.
The resolution adopted by this Grand Lodge in 1918 requiring
all Boards of Relief to render quarterly to the Grand Secretary
complete reports of all cases of relief extended for foreign jurisdictions and on which due efforts have been made to secure refund
without effect, has not been fully complied with. This resolution
is for the protectio'n of the funds of this Grand Lodge and should
receive stricter attention. The committee therefore recommends
that all sums hereinafter appropriated in this report for the reimbursement of Lodges and Boards of Relief for sums expended for
relief for outside jurisdiction be made subject to the following
proviso:
"Provided, that none of su<;:h sums shall be paid to the various
Lodges or Boards of Relief until the particulars in each case where
the amount involved is over $20.00, shall be furnished to the Gr~nd
Secreta~y. so that he may be enabled to make proper effort to
collect the same through· Grand Lodge channels."
The amount which could properly be claimed b)J the Board at
San Diego as a reimbursement is only $467. The amount of
relief required of this Board is abnormal, nor does it seem that
this condition is likely to abate. The Lodges of San Diego are
already taxed for maintenance of the overhead expenses of the

312

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Board a greater per capita amount than any other Lodges of the
State . Your committee therefore believes the request of this Board
for an amount in excess of the sum allowable under ordinary
circumstances is justifiable and is therefore recommending that an
additional allowance ~f $1000 be made to this Board.
The Board at Honolulu has done its full share of relief work,
but r equires no aid from this Grand Lodge at this time.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and
recommends its adoption: ·
Resolved, That the sum of $13,672.60 be and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be divided as
follows :
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco ..............................$ 5,198.99
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles ............................... . 5,916.58
To· the Board of Relief of San Diego ................................... . 1,467.00
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento ............................... .
590.27
To the Board of Relief of San ] ose ....................................... .
144.76
To the Board of Relief of Oakland ....................................... .
355.00
$13.672.60

Masonic Homes.-The annual report of the Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California, together with the financial report.
certified to by the accountants of the Board, has been examined.
It displays the care with which your Homes have been managed
thi s past year. The sale of the San Gabriel property and of the
five cottages has materially improved the financial condition, and
it would now seem that the Homes are at last on a sound income
basis.
The new method of financing the Homes adopted by this Grand
Lodge last session of collecting $20 from each initiate and
affiliate. although in operation but six months, has produced revenue of $77,620 ; half of which, or $38,810, according to the resolution, is available for the maintenance of the Homes. The
assessment levied upon the Lodges of $1.00 per capita has produc e d $76,196, making the total sum available for the maintenance
of the Homes for the coming year of $115,005. The total sum
expended for this purpose this past year was $81,486.76, and the
amount estimated for this coming year is $90,000, leav;TJg for the
first time an ample margin.
It is thought that the amount to be realized this Laming year
from the new plan should approximate $80,000. for th< full period.
or $10,000 short of the estimated amount necessary for n1aintenance.

313

As a sufficient margin of safety should be maintained, it would
seem that some per capita assessment should be levied . Your
committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of 35 cents per capita be levied upon
the membership for the maintenance of our Homes at Decato and
Covina, payable July 31, 1921.
Grand Master's Contiagent Expenses.-It has come to the
attention of your committee that owing to the extensive visitations
of our Grand ·Master, which included his visit to our brethren in
the Territory of Hawaii, the amount appropriated for his contingent
expenses by your last session has been insufficient. Your committee therefore recommends that a'n additional sum of $500 be
appropriated from the funds of the Grand Lodge for his
reimbursement.
Your committee offers the following resolution:
Portrait of Grand Master.-That the Most Worshipful Charles
Albert Adams be requested to sit for his portrait, and when finished, the V.".W." .Grand Secretary have the same suitably framed
and placed with the portraits of Past Grand Masters in the Masonic
Temple at San Francisco.
Deficiency Appropriation.-Your committee has also learned
that the $1200 allowed for Grand Master's expenses for 1919,
together with the $300 additional appropriated for that purpose by
your last session, was still insufficient to .defray the expenses of
the visitations of Past Grand M~ster Bradford Webster. This
matter was not properly drawn to the attention of the committee
last year, Brothe; Webster being too modest to ask for thi~
reimbursement. Your committee has learned of this from other
sources. It therefore recommends that the additional sum of $300
be appropriated froin the funds of the Grand Lodge to reimburse
Past Grand Master Webster for this expense .
Masonic Temple Association.-The report of the Masonic
Temple Association has been carefully considered. The report
'shows that the Temple has met all expenses, including interest on
the mortgage of $190,000, and still has a profit for the year of
$2670.60. The item of interest on the mortgage of $190,000 is still
the largest item of expense.
As the good faith of the Masons of this State is pledged to
the final liquidation of this debt, and in order that this interest
may be reduced as fast as possible, your committee believes that

315

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

this Grand Lodge should purchase stock to the amount of $40,000,
and therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge subscribe for 4000 shares
of the capital stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California, at a price of $10 per share, in addition to the stock already
owned.

Alameda ·Lodge.-Your committee has had under co nsideration the claim of the Trustees of t he Masonic H omes fo r reimbursement fo r $768.10 on account of expenditures fo r Milicent
Willis, a daughter of a member of Alameda Lodge No. 167 of
Centervil\e. It appears from the documents available thaJ: this
girl, together with a sister, at one t ime was placed in t he care of
the Masonic H o me at Covina, but that a member of t he Fraternity, from goodness of heart, took her and her sister into his
home and gave them such care as h e would have given to his own
children, but did not adopt them. Subsequently t his girl developed
tuberculosis and was placed b y him in the P ottenger Sa nitarium at
Monrovia, and paid for her care for some time. He subsequently
entered the arm y, an d losing most of h is practice, was unable to
keep up the expense. Alt hough no longer under the autho rity of
the Home and therefore not a charge thereon, yet it w as imperative that the girl have proper care, and a s Alameda Lodge was
not financia l\y able to care for h er, the Trustees o f t he H omes
finally assumed the account and paid the sanitarium the bill of
$768.10. Your committee feels that the Trustees act ed wisely and
did their duty by this girl, who subsequently died. As the amount
expended by t hem was not a legitimate expenditure fo r account of
the H omes, the Trustees should receive r eimbur sem ent. T he
committee therefore offers the following resolution, and recommends its a·d option:
Resolved, T hat the sum of $768.10 be a ppropriated fro m the
funds of th is Grand Lodge fo r the reimbursement of th e Trustees
of the Masonic Homes fo r the amount expended by th em in the
care of Milicent Willis, the daughter of a member of Alameda
L odge No. 167.
·

314

Salaries.-Y our committee has given serious consideration to
the matter of salaries of Grand Officers, having discussed the
subject from all angles and having taken into consideration the
continually increasing duties required of them, the material increase in the cost of living, and also of traveling expenses; the
salaries paid in commercial pursuits, and also the condition of
your finances, and particularly as it bears on the subor.d inate
Lodges, and makes the fol\owing recommendations:
Salary of Grand Treasurer ..........................................................$ 200.00
Salary of Grand Secretary ............................................................ 5,000.00
Salary of Assistant Grand Secretary.......................................... 3,300.00
Salary of Grand Lecturer .............................................................. 4,200.00
Salary of Grand Organist .............................................................. 100.00
Salary of Grand Tyler ·································································'·· 150.00
For services of Chairman of Committee on Correspon·d ence ····················-·········································································· 200.00
For the contingent expenses of the Grand Master.................. 2,500.00
As it is impossible to appropriate a definite sum for the contingent expenses of the Grand Lecturer, your committee recommends that an itemized . account of ·actual expenses incurred by
him in the discharge of his duties be filed with the Grand Secretary, and when audited and approved by the Committee 011
Accounts, that the expenses be paid in the usual manner.
Eucalyptus Lodge.-Your committee has had under consideration the claim of Eucalyptus "Lodge No. 243 of Haywards, for
the amount of $479.60, expended for the care of Charles A. F-arr, ·
a member of St. Paul Lodge No. 25, of Brandon, Vermont. It
appearing that the sum having been expended for .proper Masonic
purposes and that this Lodge has been unable to collect from the
Lodge in Vermont, the following resolution is th~refore offered
and its adoption recommended :
Resolved, That the sum of $479.60 be and the same is hereby
appropriated from this Grand Lodge to reimburse Eucalyptus
Lodge No. 243, and that the V.".W.° .Grand Secretary take up this
· matter with the Grand Lodge of Vermont.

Santa Paula Lodge.-Your com mittee has considered th e cla,im
of Santa Paula Lodge No. 291 for the refund of $4.80, o verpaid on
dues, and Consuelo Lodge No. 325 fo r $2.40, overpaid on dues, and
offers the fo llow ing resolution an d recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $7.20 be and is hereby appropriat ed
fr om the funds of this Gran d Lodge to reimbu rse Santa P aula
L odge No. 291 , and Consuelo Lodge No. 325 fo r such overpaid
accounts.
San Mateo, Amador and Northern Light Lodges.-Your committee has had under consideration t he claims of San Mateo Lodge
No. 226, Amado r Lodge No. 65 a nd No rthern Light Lodge No.
190 each of said Lodges having overpaid $20 o.n their returns on
a cc~u nt of th e Masonic H ome F und collected from candidates.
As t hese sums have already been paid to t he Grand Treasu rer and

PROCEEDING::; OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

segregated to the Homes accounts, it would entail unnecessary
work to return these amounts to these Lodges. The committee
therefore recommends that each of these Lodges be allowed to
take credit for the sum of $20 on their next returns 'Of said $20
Fund.

obligation has, in contravention to section 128 of the Constitution,
levied and paid a n assessmen t of $10 per member. T h e Lodge
has also paid its Grand Lodge dues without reques t fo r relief.
This is the Lodge referred to by the Grand Master in his address.
This display of the true spirit of Masonry should be commended.
Your committee feels that Grand Lodge can .do no less than to
assist these· brethren in their splendid efforts, and therefo re offers
the following resolution and recommends its· adoptioP ·
Resolved, That the sum of $651.45 be and is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Forest
Lodge for this particular expenditu re.

316

Hawaiian Lodge.-Y our committee has had under consideration the claim of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, for reimbursement of
the sum of $303 expended in the trial of a case trans ferred by
order of the Grand Master, to a Lodge in San Francisco. In order
that this case might be properly presented, Hawaiian Lodge considered it necessary to send their Senior Warden to San Francisco, expending the amount of refund asked for, for his expenses.
This was a case growing out of the war, and a lack of a proper
prosecution would have been a reflection upon the entire Fraternity. As the Lodge was put to an additional expense of $447.45
and as the proper prosecution of Masonic offenses should be
encouraged, your committee feels that Hawaiian Lodge should be
relieved of a part of this burden, and therefore offers the following resolution and recommends it!i adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $303 be appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge for the reimbursement of Hawaiian Lodge
No. 21, for the sum so expended.
Traver Lodge.-Y our committee has had under consideration
the claim of Traver Lodge No. 294, of Kingsburg, for $239.25,
e xpended for the relief of Brother J. K. Knoll, a member of
Architect Lodge No. 649, Hazel Valley, Arkansas. It appears from
testimony that this brother was in the last stages of tuberculosis,
and that it was found advisable to send him to his home at Winslow, Arkansas. The Lodge has been unsuccessful in getting
rchnbursement for this expense. The committee therefore offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $239.25 be appropriated from the
funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Traver Lodge No. 294
for the money expended, and that th e Grand Secretary endeavor
to collect this amount throug h the proper channeis, and if successful, the amount to be r eturned to the funds of this Grand
Lodge.
F orest L odge.-Your committee has had under consideration
the condition of F o rest Lodge No. 66, of Alleghany; c::.used by the
splendid work carried on in the relief of some of its members.
This Lodge has only a membership of 49. It has incurred an
indebtedness of $651.45 for relief of two brothers by the Board
,,j Relief of Sacramento, and ·in order to endeavor to meet this

317

Reimbursement, L odges U . D.-Your committee has had under
consideration the request of those L odges under dispensatio n since
August 1, 1920, for a return of Grand Lodge dues paid by them
on members dimitting to them from other Lodges in this jurisdiction, the claim being based on the contention that these members would b e 0!1 the rolls of the old Lodges up to J uly 31st, and
the Grand Lodge dues would therefore be paid by such old Lodges
and then were entered on the · rolls of the new Lodges and
returned by them on September 30th.
This contention is undoubtedly correct, but it appea rs that
it was an unusual procedure ·to re qu est dispensations afte r August
1s t. and ask for charters at the coming October session of the
Grand Lodge. And in some instances this was called to the attention of the brothers seeking dispensation, together with th e necessity of making a double return of th e dimitting membe r s of this
jurisdiction, and it was agreed that such condition would be waived,
providing the dispensation was issued and a permit to apply fo r
charter was granted. It must also be bo rne in mind that the
Lodges under dispensation have representatives present at Grand
T.odge, which representatives will receive the usual traveling
allowance. It is also difficult to de termine from the returns the
exact amount of refund due. Your committee is therefore of the
opinion that the request of these Lodges fo r refund of d ues paid
this Grand Lodge should be denied and so recommends.
U. C. Club a t Berkcley.-Your co mmittee has had under consid eratio n that part of the report of the Grand Master deali ng
with the Acacia Fraternity and the proposed Masonic Club at
Berkeley. Representatives fro m .the Fraternity and t he Club
appeared before the committee. an d the situation was gone intr
at length. Undoubtedly the proposed Club is worthy of encouragement and should receive both the m oral and the finan cial support of the Masons of this State. T he proposition, however, is

319

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

318

not much more than a vision at this time. No concrete idea of
organization has yet been worked out, much less a plan for the
raising of funds, or of even what is actually to be desired in the
way of Club purposes. The brethren who are· attempting this
project, however, are desirous of the assurance of the support of
this Grand Lodge, and this committee is of the opinion that such
support should be assured. We therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:

Appropriat'on for Masonic Education.-Y our Committee on
Finance has had under consideration an appropriation in behalf
of Masonic Education, and after a thorough investigation, your
Committee on Finance offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That a sum not to exceed $3000 may be expended
by the Committee on Education under the supervision and with
the approval of the Grand Master, on requisitions of said
committee from time to time as needed.

Resolved, That the sum of $2000 be appropriated from the
funds of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of aiding the proposed
.Masonic Club at the University of California, such sum to be
available subject to the following provisions:
That an organization satisfactory to the Grand Master shall
be perfected, and in which organization the Grand Master shall
have at least one representative.
That plans for Club purposes and for the financing and maintenance of the Club shall be perfected satisfactory to the Grand
Master.
··
That a sum shall be raised for Club · purposes which, in the
opinion of the Grand Master, will be sufficient to warrant that
amoui1t appropriated will not be frittered away for useless
purposes.
Roster of Officers.-Your Committee on Finance has considered the advisability of continuing the printing of the roster of
Lodges in its present form. In addition to other information the
roster contains the name and number of each Lodge, its membership, Inspectorial district, when chartered and place and date of
meeting. It also contains the name and address of both the Master
and Secretary, as well as the names of all the other officers of the
Lodge. It is the opinion of the committee that the publication
of the names o.f officers below that of Junior Warden, excepting
the name and address of the Secretary, is not of sufficient value .
to warrant the expense of the publication. The expense of such
publication can be reduced by about one-half by such elimination.
All other information contained in the roste.r is considered pertinent. . The committee therefore recommends that hereafter the
roster be published in its present form, but that the names of the
officers of the Lodges subor?inate to that of Junior Warden,
excepting the name and the address of the Secretary, · be hereafter
eliminated from such roster.

Adopted.

ARTHUR

s. CRITES,

Gus HuTAFF,
w. P. JEFFRIES,
H. C. KLEVESAHL,
LEo BRUCK,

Committee.

Adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PA~ OF MEMBERS
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the
cost of transportation for one person from the location of each
Lodge in the State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge
and return, and of reporting such cost of transportation as the
sum due to the officers or representatives in attendance from each
Lodge, as well as the Grand Officers, Past Grand Masters, Chairmen of Standing Committees, and Inspectors, for their necessary
expenditure for transportation to and from the Grand Lodge,
report that they . have carefully discharged that duty, and submit
the following statement:
GRAND OFFICERS

Samuel E. Burke, Senior Grand Warden, Los Angeles ......$
Charles S. Chapman, Grand Standard Bearer, Fullerton .. ..
John P. Jarman, Grand Bible Bearer, San Jose .................... ..
Walter T. Helms, Senior Grand Deacon, Richmond .......... ..
Warren E. Libby, Senior Grand Steward, San Diego ..........
Charles A. Vandenbos, Junior Grand Steward, San Mateo
Theo. J. Milliken, Grand Pursuivant, Sacramento.~ ..............

46.50
48.45
3.75
1.30
57.45
.1.40
7.00

Total .............................................................................................$

165.85

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS

William T. Lucas, Santa Maria ....................................................$
29.15
Orrin S. Henderson, Stockton....................................................
6.60
Dana R. Well er, Los Angeles......................................................
45.SO
Alonzo J. Monroe, Eureka .................................................... :.......
31.10
John D. Murphey, Berkeley ........................................................................
Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Los Angeles............................................
46.50
Albert G. Burnett, Sacramento ..........:.........................................
7.00
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Los Angeles............................................
46.50
Total ..........................................................................................$

213.35

CHAIRMEN STANDING COMMITTEES

Joseph B. Bernard, Grievances, Fresno ....................................$
Arthur S. _C rites, Finance, Bakersfield ........................................
C. H. Wheeler, Returns, San Jose ..............................................
Irving J. Mitchell, Education, Los Angeles..............................

22.55
31.00
3.75
46.50

Total ............................................................'!...............................$

103.80

INSPECTORS

James F . Fraser, First District, Eureka:....................................$
31.10
R. C. J. Ritschel, Third District, Willits..................................
10.90
Gustav A. Hutaff, Fourth District............................................
31.30
Otto G. Trautz, Fifth District, Cottonwood............................
23.85
Charles S. Baldwin. Sixth District, Alturas............................
52.20
Willard Clark, Seventh District, Orland..................................
12.95
James A. Pardee,. Eighth District, Susanville........................
49.10
Charles Garrison, Ninth District, Beckwith .........:..................
30.85
E . Lewis Case. Eleventh District, Downieville....................
39.35
H . P. Jansen, Thirteenth District, Lincoln..............................
9.20
Charles 0. Hamilton, Fourteenth District, Oroville ............................
.............................. Sixteenth District, Colusa................................................
John D. Monroe, Seventeenth District, Lakeport................
13.35
N. F . Coombs, Nineteenth District, Napa................................
3.75
J esse P. Bascom, Tweptieth District, Sacramento ..........:.....
7.00
H. Hayes Gable, Twenty-first District, E sparto....................
7.90
George C. Rolleri, Twenty-second District, Placerville........
12.70
Charles E . Richards, Twenty-third District, Sutter Creek..
15.05
Otto T. Mouron, Twenty-fifth District, Sonora....................
15.10
Edwi~ A. Palmer, Twenty-seventh District, Concord........
3.50
J arnh E. Hughes. Twenty-eighth District, Crockett............
2.35
Eugene L. Dearborn, Twenty-ninth District, Fairfield........
3.90
Max A. Plumb, Thirtieth District, Oakland ............................................
Charles B. Greeley, Thirty-first District, Alameda................................

321

Granville D. W arren, Thirty-second District, Oakland ........ ................
Elon A. Ormsby, Thirty-third Dis tric t~ Centerville............
2.60
Kent J. C. Seymour, Thirty-ninth Dist rict, Mill Valley...... ................
Charles G. Lambert, Fortieth District, Redwood City........
2.10
Theo. M. Wright, Forty-first, San J ose....................................
3.75
Frank H. Westlake, Forty-fifth, Tracy....................................
5.60
Henry E. Verble, Forty-eighth Distr ict, Kingsburg............
24.25
Francis W . Mixter, Forty-ninth District, Exeter................
28.70
E. F. Clute, Fiftieth District, Ha-nford....................................
25.30
Wm. W. Kaye, Fifty-first District, Bakersfield......................
31.00
Walter D. Adriance, Fifty-second District, San Luis
Obispo ......................................................................................
25.90
David J . Reese, Fifty-third District, Ventura........................
40.55
Charles P. Lyndall, Fifty-fourth District, Los Angeles........
46.50
Reginald W. Clapp, Fifty-fifth Distric t, Los Angeles..........
46.50
Robie E. Dill, Fifty-sixth, Los Angeles....................................
46.50
William ]. Sanborn, Fifty-seven th, Los Angeles....................
46.50
Will H. F ischer, Fifty-eighth, Los Angeles........•....-;............
46.50
Lemuel L: Test, Sixtieth, Pasadena........................................ ~ ··
47.55
William A. Vandegrift, Sixty-first, P omona............................
49.25
E . E. Knepper, Sixty-second, Monrovia.................................. ·
47.95
Franklin D. Caldwell, Sixty-third, Artesia..............................
47.95
Clark H. Shaw, Sixty-fourth, Long Beach................................
48.20
Eli B. Trago, Sixty-fifth, Santa Ana..........................................
49.10
Walter B. Howes, Sixty-seventh, San Bernardino................
51.05
H~nry D. French, Sixty-eighth, Rive r side................................
51.05
]. Stewart Ross, Sixty-ninth, El Centro....................................
76.85
Arthur A. Mathewson, Seventieth, Coronado........................
57.65
Daniel Cave, Special, Los Angeles...............'...............................
46.50
Total ..........................................................................................$ 1,370.75
RECAPITU LATJON

Representatives ..... :.................................................................:........$ 9,220.00
Grand Officers ..................................................................................
165.85
Past Grand Masters.... ,.........................-........................................
213.35
Chairmen of Standing Committees .....'.......................................
103.80
Inspectors ...............................................:.......................................... 1,370.75
Total ."............................•............................................................$11,073.80
We offer the following resolution a nd recommend it.s adoption:
Resolved, That there be levied upon the constituent Lodges of
the State of California for the current fiscal year, in addition to the
dues prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of 20 cents for each
member borne upo n the respective rolls at the date of the annual

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

322

reports. Said levy shall be for the payment of Representatives,
Grand Officers, Past Grand Masters, and Inspectors, _and shall be
paid at :the same time and in the manner prescribed for the
payment of the annual dues.
HUGH K. McKEVITT,
HOWARD D. KERCHEVAL,
CHESTER 0. PORTER,

Committee.

The report was adopted.

323

Afternoon Session.
Friday, October 15, 1920.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS
Election of officers for the ensuing year being now in
order, the Grand Master appointed the following Tellers:
Past Grand Masters Burnett, Keesling, Murphey, Henderson, Hervey, Weller, Webster, Frank W. Mixter and
Jesse M. Whited. The election resulted as follows:
The R." .W.".George F. Rodden of Marin Lodge No. 191 was
elected Grand Master.
The. R.".W.".Samuel E. Burke of Sunset Lodge No. 352 was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
·
The R.".W.".William A. Sherman of Presidio Lodge No. 354
was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The
·.Arthur S. Crites of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224 was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
Tht V.".W.".William P. Filmer of King Solomon's Lodge No.
260 was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V." .W.".John Whicher of King David's Lodge No. 209
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.".W." .Thomas J . Baker of Union Lodge No. 58 was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.

w.

Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master-elect then caused to be read. the
list of appointed officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. Lynn T. White, of Marin Lodge No. 191.
Grand Orator, Harvey D. Loveland, of San Francisco Lodge
No. 360.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Harry S. Johnson, of San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
·
Grand Marshal, Sidney B. Force, of Eden Lodge No. 113.
Grand Standard Bearer, Charles S. Chapman, of Fullerton
Lodge .No. 339.
Grand Sword Bearer, Rudolf Beck, of Oxnard Lodge No. 341.
Grand Bible Bearer, John P. Jarman, of San Jose Lodge
No. 10.
Senior Grand Deacon, Otto J. Mouron, of Tuolumne Lodge
No. 8.
Junior Grand Deacon, Herman · M. Wallenstein, of Fidelity
Lodge No. 120.
Senior Grand Steward, Alvin P. Rogers, of Mountain View
Lodge No. 194.
Junior Grand Steward, Malcolm Macintyre (409).
Grand Pursuivant, Theodore J. Milliken, of Tehama Lodge
No. 3.
Grand Organist, Samuel D. Mayer, of California Lodge No . 1
(his fifty-third annual appointment).
Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson, of Presidio Lodge No. 354.

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand officers, excepting the Grand Sword Bearer,
Junior Grand Steward and Grand Tiler,. were then installed
in due and ancient form by Past Grand Master Charles
Albert Adams, assisted by Past Grand Master Bradford
Webster as Master of Ceremonies.
Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller, in particularly
happy vein, then presented to the retiring Grand Master
a sterling silver water pitcher and tray.
The retiring Grand Master presented to his newlyinstalled successor a Grand Master's button-badge, to be
worn by him and delivered yearly .to Grand· M~sters in
succession· with the injunction that 1f and when 1t should
not be con~inually worn, it should be returned to the giver.
And it was so accepted.
At 3 :30 o'clock, all business being now completed,
the. seventy-first annual Grand Lodge was closed in Ample
Form.
GEORGE F. RcionEN, Grand Master.

JoHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF l'ALIFORNIA

325

STANDING COMMITTEES
Jurisprudence-Frank M. Angellotti, Wells Fargo Building, San
Francisco; Chas. L. Patton, Library Building, San Francisco; Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Federal Building, Los Angeles; Dana R. Weller,
Courthouse, Los Angeles; Albert G. Burnett, State Capitol, Sacramento;
Francis V. Keesling, Chronic'.e Building, San Francisco; John D.
Murphey, 1911 Parker Street, Berkeley.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes-Bradford Webster,
Pacific Building, San Francisco; William Rhodes Hervey, Trust and
Savings Bank, Los Angeles; Orrin S. Henderson, Box 14, Stockton;
Eugene S. Elkus, 7'29 Mission Street, San Francisco; W. H. Waste,
2222 Durant Street, Berkeley; Charles Albert Adams, H umboldt Bank
Building, San ~'rancisco; Wil'.iam T. Lucas, Santa Maria.
Grievances-George L. Jones, Nevada City; Adam H . Winder, Riverside; Albert E. Boynton, Mills Building, San Francisco; E. B.
Power, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; W a!ter Haas, 718
Citizens National Bank Building, Los Angeles.
Fillance-William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Gustaf A. Hutaff, Dunsmuir; 0 . M. Gcildaracena, Bank of Italy Building, San Francisco; H. C. Klevesahl, Humboldt Bank, San Francisco;
Leo Bruck, Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Credentials-Roderick G. Guyett, Crocker Bui'. ding, San Francisco;
Fred W. LeBallister, 9851 East Fourteenth Street, Oakland; Will H.
Fischer, 123 South M~riposa Avenue, Los Angeles; John H. Bean, 1347
Valencia Street, Los Angeles; Wm. H . Halford, Coalinga.
Accounts-(All of San Francisco) Edward E. Conn, 347 Clay
Street; Wm. P. Read, Flood Building; John Clute, 137 New Montgomery Street; Samuel A. Clarke, Spear and Mission Streets; Wm. Penn
Humphreys, 58 Sutter Street.
Return.s-Robert E . Allan, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco;
Chas. D. Barnett, Santa Rosa; Clarence A. Tillotson, Dinuba ; Henry
G. Ilderton, 1516 Chestnut Street, Alameda; Frank W. Tade, Farmers
and Merchants Savings Bank Building, Sacramento.
Ritua,1 -Thomas J. Baker, Masonic· Temple, San Francisco; Dana
R. Weller, Courthouse, Los Ange!es; William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
·
Correspondence-Jesse M. Whited, 354 Pine Street, San Francisco;
Daniel Ca~e, 208 Lankershim Building, Los Angeles ; Percio Righetti,
'12 Geary Street, San Francisco; Carl L .. Ratzer, 1303 W ashington Building, Lo.s Angeles; Chas. 0. Hamilton, Box 57, Oroville.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

326

0

Pay of Members-John H. McGehee, Box 467, San Jose; Howard
D. Kercheval, Courtland; Lewis B. Wilcoxon, Marysville; Samuel W.
Burtchaell, 272 Euclid Avenue, Oakland; Trustom R. Dinsmore, Eureka.

Library-E. Ellison, 10 Embarcadero Street, San Francisco; Henry
M. Owens, 948 Market Street, San Francisco; John W. Gwilt, Bank of
Italy Building, Oakland; Louis L. Janes, Call Building, San Francisco;
(not yet appointed).
Endowment-Motley H. Flint, Trust and Savings Bank, Los Angeles; Alonzo J . Monroe, Eureka; John F. Ellison, Red Bluff; Chas.
Albert Root, Masonic Temple, Sacramento; Andrew W. Quinn, Exeter;
Fred L. Kincaid, 930 N. San Joaquin Street, Stockton; William H .
Worden, 126 Pine Street; C. H. Wheeler, 1815 Chestnut Street, Ala··
meda.
Masonic Education-Irving J. Mitchell, General Chairman, 1127
West 20th Street, Los Angeles. Northern Ca.lifornia-Wm. V. Cowan,
Chairman, Bryte Building, Sacramento; George F. Hudson, 440 East
Main Street, Stockton ; · Egbert A. Brown, California Nat ion al Bank,
Sacramento. Bay Counties-Charles H . Victor, 132 Sutter Street, San
Francisco; Robert B. Gaylord, 270 Perkins Street, Oakland; Andrew
Johnston, 201 Sansome Street, San Francisco. Central CaliforniaW. W. Kaye, Bakersfield; H. S. Foster, 1601 Thomas Street, Fresno;
Frank W . Mixter, Exeter. Southern California-Paul Burks, Kerckhoff Building, Los Ange'es; John F. West, City Schools, Pasadena;
Reynold E. Blight, 929 South Hope Street, Los Angeles. Hawaiian
Islands-Abram Lewis, Wallace R. Farrington, Malcolm Macintyre,

N
Ol
IO

'SUOS'llJ'l
i0'jS'llJ'l

..i

·s0na ronuuy

<

Trustees Masonic Homes-Chas. M. Wollenberg (1922), Relief
Home, San Francisco; Chas. G. J ohnson (1921), Forum Building,
Sacramento; James B. Gist (1923), 206 Security Building, Los Angeles;
Robie E. Dill (1924), 615 Pico Street, Los A~eles, and the Deputy
Grand Master and the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens.

Honolulu, T . H.

327

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ct)

~

'UOJi'llllllJY

WJ 00,!I
·saa.Lll0a
ioJ 00J1

...,::s

. . . :: .. ::
... :: .. .. . :: : : o .. . : . :: :: ::
or.
..... . :: :
I>.
~
~
.
c..· :: :: o· : ::a. ::
<.
z·
z::a· :: : : . : : : :: :: : : ::

:0
c

~.

Q)

~ ...tU

~

(I)

~

3 ,,,
c

0

tU

:E

~ .t:...
~
z ......
(I)

0

0.

0 .t:
~ "'...
0
(I)

~

.0

E
(I)
:E
00

p

'O

~

c

tU
0 ,,,
(I)

:I

~H Cl,;
H IL
(I)
(I)

...rti

$...
tU

.t:
<.l

...
0

...tU
(I)

'O

...

.t:

~

~~

M

t:-... lO.....

CN •

0 .2>-

H

,,.,;

00. :: : ~· : :: :: : ~·
'"'
......
..... :
~· :: : : : :: ......
IQ.

c

00~

.....~

0

bl!

·sJeqwnN

l[)
.....

CN

ol.

0

I>.

ol.

~~.

39
40
41
42

43
44
45
46

47
48

49
50

51

52
53

Volcano . . . . . . . . . 56 Volcano ............ Amador ........... .
Santa Ro.sa ...... 57 Santa Rosa ......... Sonoma .......... . .
Union ........... 58 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ......•.
Gravel Range .... 59 Camptonville ...... . Yuba .. .. ..... .... .
Plumas . . . . . . . . . 60 Quincy ..•........• Plumas ........... .
Live Oak ........ 61 Oakland ••.......... Alameda .......... .
Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ............. Sacramento •... ....
Amador .. ... . . .. 65 Jackson ..•. .... .. .• Amador .•.. •......•
Forest .......... 66 Alleghany .. ... ....• Sierra ............ .
Morning Star . . . . 68 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ...... . .
Enterprise ....... ·10 Yuba City ........• Sutter •..•........•
Bear Mountain ... 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras ......... .
Calaveras ....... 18 San Andreas ....... Calaveras ......... .
Humboldt . . . . . . . 79 Eureka •........•..• Humboldt ......•...
Ione ........ .. .. 80 Ione •.............. Amador .......... .

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
. ""
"
"
2,
"
"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
.July

"
"

May

5

75

5

75 10
30 ···· · ·
50
5
75 25
50
5
50 ..... .
50 ... .. .

so ..... .

"

50
5
50
3
50
5
50 ······
50 ..... .

"

"
1855.

4,
I,
8,

30

1856.

9
9

269

9
9

356
28

9
9
9
9
9

73

0
t;

30

Q

~
0
".I
8

913

96
75

u

46
389

12
9

169

!)

373

9

54

:i:
l:tJ

86
112

u

54

Yolo ...... . ..... SI Yolo ... . ........ . .. Yolo ......... ... . . .
}lay
Vesper . . . . . . . . . . 84 Red Bluff ..... .. ... Tehama ... ........ .
"
Naval . ... ....... 87 Vallejo ....... ·..... Solano ...... .. .... .
"
Rose's Bar .. .... 89 Bmartsville ......... Yuba • ............ •
"
59 North Star ..... . 91 Fort .Jones ...... . .. Siskiyou .........•.
"
St.
Helena
.
.
.....
93
St.
Helena
......
..
.
Napa
.....
.
.......
.
60
"
Henry
Clay
......
95 Sutter Creek ........ Amador .. ... ...... .
61
"
62 Howard . . . . . . . . . 96 Yreka ............ . Siskiyou .... .. ...•. May
.Jefferson ........ 97 La Porte ........... Plumas . .. .. . .. ... . •
63 Hornitos
"
........ 98 Hornitos ........... Mariposa .......... .
64
"
Yosemite .... . ... 99 Merced .... . . ...... Merced ..... . ....•.
65 Clay .. .. . .. ..... 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer ..... . ...... .
"
66 Oroville . .. ... . .. 103 Oroville ......•..... Butte .............•
"
67 Lexington ....... 104 El Monte .......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
68 Arcata . ..... .' ... 106 Arcata . ............ Humboldt . . ......•.
"
69 Pajaro . .. . .... .. 110 Watsonville ...•.... Santa Cruz •........ May
70
"
Chico .. ........ . 111 Chico .............. Butte ..... .. ...... .
71
"
Summit . ........ 112 Knight's Ferry ..... Stanislaus ....••..••
72
"
Eden ......... . .. 113 San Leandro .. .... . Alameda .......... .
73 Concord
"
......... 117 Sacramento ... ..... Sacramento .. . ...•.
74
"
Clinton
.
.........
119
Igo
..
...
....
.......
Shasta
...........•.
May
75
Fidelity .. ....... 120 San Francisco •..... San Francisco .....•
76
"
Alamo .... ... ... 122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ......•
77
Sotoyome ..... .. 123 Healdsburg ...•..... Sonoma .... .... ...•
78
"
79 Table Mountain . .. 124 Cherokee ........... Butte .. ...... . ..•..
"
. 80 La Fayette . . .... 126 Sebastopol .... . .. .. Sonoma .... .. .....•
"
81 Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco ... .. •
"
82 Visalia .......... 128 Visalia .......... . .. Tulare •...•.... .. .•
May
83 Nicolaus .... . .. . 129 Wheatland .... .... . Yuba ............. .
"
84 ~ood~ridge ...... 131 Woodbridge ...• . ..• San .Joaquin .......•
"
Sincenty
.
.
..
....
132
Greenville
...
....
..
Plumas
.....
.
...•.•
85
"
86 Vacaville ........ 134 Vacaville •......... Solano •...........•
"
Valley .......... 135 Linden ............• San .Joaquin ......• M:ay
87
Pacific ........ .. 136 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco .....• May
8~
Crockett ... . . .... 139 San Francisco ...... 1San Francisco .. ...•
55

56
57
58

8,

"
"
"
"
"
" 8,
"
"
"

"
"

15,

14,

"
"
"

"

15,
13,

18.56

"
"
"

"
"

"
"

1856

"
"
"
"

"
1857.
"
"
"

"
"

.. "" "

"

1858.

"

"
"
"
"14,

"

"
"
"

1859.

"
"
"
" "
"
"
11, 1860.
13,

" ..

IO,

1S60.

30 ... .. .
501•••• ••

80 10
50
-5
35
5
30
1
40 ······
50
1
30
6
36
5
50 ......
60 ······
50
5
40
1
50
3
50 18
55

50

20

50

8

50

5

30 ......
50
5
30 ······
30 ····· ·

100
80

12

9
9
JO•· 12
5
9

50 2~
75 10
30
5
100 50
50 ......
'i5
5
35
1
50 ... .. .

75

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
15
9
1%

20
5

12
9

1

i1

u
9

9
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9,
12

f>l
155

534
42

43

96
53
95

32
45
152

61
228
102
15-l
149

264
39
150
149
47
598
101
228
5g
151
208
186

"~
z

t:1

t"'

0

t:1

"
t'i

0

'>j

0

>
t"'

~

:i:i

~

>

80
96
113

137
54

737
573

~

~

102
103
l 04
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116

Alameda ........ 167 Centerville ........ Alameda . . . . . . . . . . •
Redwood City ... 168 Redwood City •..•.. San Mateo . . . • . . . . .
Mission .. . . ..... 169 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco . . . . . .
Elk Grove ...... . 173 Elk Grove .......... Sacramento . . . . . . ..
Drytown ........ 174 Plymouth .......... Amador . . . . . . . . . . ..
Antioch ......... 175 Antioch ............ Contra Costa ... ; • . •
Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino • . . ••
Mendocino ..... . 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino : . . . . . . . •
Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma .......... Sonoma .. . . . . . . . ...
Russian River ... 181. Windsor ........... Sonoma • . . . . . .. . . . •
Arbuckle ........ 182 Arbuckle . . . . . . . . . . Colusa . . . • . . . . . . . . •
Clear Lake ...... 183 Lower Lake ••.•.... Lake • • . . . . . . . . . . • •
Sierra Valley .. .. 184 Sierra ville ....•...• Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Claiborne ........ 185 Point Arena .......• Mendocino . . . . . . . . •
Evening Star .... 186 Etna Mills •.••..•.• Siskiyou .. . . . . . . . • •

"
''
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

"
''
"
13,
"
12,
11,
"
"
"
IO,
"
"
"
"

"
''
"
1865.
"
1865.
"
"
"
"
1867.
"
"
"
"

117
Keith ........... 18i Gilroy ............. Santa Clara ........ Oct.
15, 1868.
118 Oakland .... . . ... 188 Oakland
Alameda ............
119 Northern Light ... 190
"
" "
Millville
Shasta ............. Oct.
15, 1868.
120 Marin ........... 191
121 Santa Barbara . ... 192 San Rafael ........• Marin
"
" "
122 Ferndale .. .. .. .. 193 Santa Barbara .•... Santa Barbara ....•
"
" "
Humboldt ......•..• O"t.
123 Mountain View ... 194 Ferndale
14, 1869.
124 Buckeye ........ 195 Mountain View ... .. Santa Clara .......•
"
"
125 San Simeon ...... 196 Winters ........... Yolo ........•......
"
"
"
126 Wilmington ..... 198 Cambria ..........• San Luis Obispo ....
"
"
127 Hartley ........ . 199 Wilmington ......•. Los Angeles . .. . •. . • Oct. · 14, 1869.
128 Truckee ....... .. 200 Lakeport ...... .. .. Lake .............•
"
" "
129 Silveyville ... .... 201 Truckee ..... .... ... Nevada •.•........•
" "
Dixon
Solano
.
............•
130 Pentalpha .. ... .. 202
"
"
131 Confidence ....... 203 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles .•.. • ..•
"
"
"
Castroville
.........
Monterey .........•
132 Salinas .......... 204
"
" "
133 Olivet .. ... . ..... 205 Salinas ........ .. .. Monterey •........•
"
"
Corning
.....
.
......
Tehama .............
134 Stanislaus ....... 206
Oct.
14, 1870.
135 Anaheim ........ 207 Modesto .... ...... . Stanislaus ..........
"
" "
Orange •... •••... ..•
136 Rio Vista . ....... 208 Anaheim
"
" "
137 King David's .. ... 209 Rio Vista . .. ........ Solano ............•
"
"
138 Friendship ....... 210 San Luis Obispo ..• .. San Luis Obispo .....
"
"14, "
139 San Benito ....... 211 San Jose .........•. San ta Clara ........ Oct.
1871.
140 So. San Francisco.212 Hollister .... . ....... San Benito .........
"
"
San
Francisco
......
San
Francisco
...•..
141 San Buenaventura.214
"
"
"
Ventura ... ... ... . . Ventura •...... .. .••
142 Oak Grove ....... 215 Alameda ... ......
"
"
.
Alameda
.......•
..•
143 Doric .. ... ....... 216
"
" "
144 Monterey .. .... .. 217 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..••..
" "
Monterey
145 Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore ........ .. Monterey ... •. ....•
"
" "
Alameda ........... Oct.
146 SP.eranza Italiana . 219
11, 1872.
San Francisco . ... . .
147 Downey ......... 220 Downey . .•...... . .. San Francisco .. ...•
"
"
Los Angeles ..•..•.•
148 Inyo .... ... ..... 221
"
"
Independence . ... .. . Inyo .. .. ..•.•..••••
149 Roseville . .. .... . 222
"
" "
Rocklin ........•..•
12, 1912.
150 Bakersfield ...... ?.24 Bakersfield ..•...... Placer ......•....•• Oct.
Kern
.................
Oct.
18,
1873.
151 Brooklyn ........ 225 East Oakland ..... .
152 San Mateo ....... 226 San Mateo ........ . Alameda . ...... ...•
"
"
"
. San Mateo ........•
15:l Athemi ...... . ... 2:'.~ Davis
"
"
. . . . . . . . . . . . . Yolo ...•..........•

······· ····
···········

............

···· ····· ····

..

"

·············

"
"

"

..

·· ·· ···· ···

..

····· ·· ··.

..

"

"'

"

"
"

"

"

50
2
50
1
100
5
50 JO
50
5
50
5
55
3
60
5
50
5
30
1
50
1
30 . _.. .
30 .. ....
30 ......
30 .. .. ..

12
12
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
!J

50
50

l• 9
1 12
S.5
3
9
50 ...... 12
.
.....
50
1.s
50 ......
9
50 ...•..
9
50
5
30 ······
9
50
5
9
30 ......
9
60
5
9
60
5
9
50 20
9
40 ......
9
50 ......
9
......
50
9
.
.....
50
12
50 ......
9
50
1
9
!.lO
1 24
50 ......
\.I
30
1 12
50 ...... 12
50 ... ...
9
80
1
9
100 10 12
80
9
5
50 .. , ... 12
80 10 12
30
9
50
9
1
50 2%
\.I
75 ...... 12
55 ......
II
50 ...... 18

51.1 .. ....

9

125
190
912
77
26
139
366
147
241
99
64
2!J
34
55
37

g
l%J

w.

0
".l

...,
~
l%J

J4!)

78::S
81
W7
242
109
149
83

40
84
120
116
85
581
27
li7
10"'
207
195
70
231
21-15
llO
233
187
498
558
120

Cl
:ll

z>

'='
t"1
0

'Cl='
131

0

"l

(')

>
t'

:;;

0
:ii

z

>

99

271
102
70
:l05
364
5:!0
17::S
66

w
w

167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180

Alcatraz .. . ... . .. 244 West Oakland . . . ... Alameda • . . . . . . . . . .
Laurel . . ...... . . 245 Willows .. .... ...... Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Pomona ......... 246 Pomona •........... Los Angeles . . . . . . . .
Fresno .. ... ..... 247 Fresno .• . .... ...... Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alturas . . ....... . 248 Alturas •....... .... Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Adin ... ...... ... 250 Adin ....... .. .... . Modoc .. . .. ... . ... ,
Landmark .. .... . 253 Esparto . .... . . . . . . Yolo · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Rearung ... ...... 254 Red ding .... . . ..... Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Welt.ome .. ... ... 255 Lemoore ........... Kings . . . . . . . . • . . • .
Lodi ............ 256 Lodi •. . : . .. . ... ... San Joaquin . . . . . . . .
Penrhyn ......... 258 Penryn . . .........• Placer ....... . . . : . .
Evergreen ....... 259\Riverside .......... Riverside . . . . . . . . . .
King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco . . . • . San Francisco . . . . . .
Tuscan ... .... ... 261 Williams ....•.. ..•. Colusa • . . . . . . . ... . . .

181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
-199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
2VJ
214
215
216

Lompoc ......... 262 Lompoc .. .. ..•.• • .. Santa Barbara •.•••
Hesperian ....... 264 Santa Maria ... . ...•l&nta Barbara • • •.•
Orland . .... ... . . 265 Orland ............ .'Glen». .•••... • .• ..••
North East .... . . 266 Fort Bidwell . .. ... • Modoc •.•. ..• ..... •
Galt •.......... . . 267 Galt .• • .. ••.....•.. Sacramento
Durant . . . . . . . . . . 268 Berkeley • .. .•... • .. Alameda
Olive Branch ..... 269 Tulare .•......•... • Tulare
Snow Mountain . . . 271 Stony Ford .....•.• Colusa •.... .••.•..•
Pasadena .. ..... . 272 Pasadena
Loa An~lea •..•...•
Anchor •..•.. . . .. 273 Compton ••.•..•.••• Loi An~lea •.....• .
Arroyo • ....... . . 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo .•.••
Oakdale . . ....... 275 Oakdale ••• . .......• Stanislaus •... •• ... •
Fresno
Selma .. ......... 277 Selma
Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles .•..•... Los Ai:ireles • .•. ..• •
Hanford ......... 279 Hanford • ... .. . .. : . Kings •... ..• .. ....•
Madera . . .. ..... . 280 Madera •........... Madera ............
Mount Shasta ... . 281 A.nderson
Shasta •••..•••...•.
Callayomi .... . .. . 282 Middletown .... ..... Lake ...............
South West ...... 283 National City .....• San Diego •. . •..• •••
San Miguel .... . . 285 San Miguel .•.....• San Lui11 Obispo . .•..
Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles ..... ..• San Luis Obispo ..••.
Winnedumah .. . . 287 Bishop •••..•••. .•. . Inyo •••••••..• .. ..•
Maxwell . .. . ... . . 288 Maxwell •••••• • . •. . Colusa ••. • ..•. .. . •.
Elsinore ......... 289 Elainore •.. ......... Riverside .........•
East Gat e . ...... 290 Los Ange)es .... ... • Los Angeles .. ••. .. .
Santa Paula . ..... 291 Santa Paula .. . .. .. . Ventura .. ...• .....
Los Gatos ... . . .. . 292 Los Gatos ••. ..•. • • • Santa Clara •.......
Orange Grove . ... 293 0range ..........•. Orange ..........••
Traver ... ...•... 294 Kingsburg . . ...•.•• Fresno •••..•.••. ••.
Mt. Jackson . . ... 295 Guerneville ....... • . Sonoma •••. .. ..... •
Silver Gate ... . . . 296 San Diego •.... ••• .. San Diego ••.. ... ...
Dunsmuir .. .. .... 297 Dunsmuir •. .•... • .. Siskiyou •.••.....••
Liberty .... . . . ... 299 Santa Clara ••. ...•. Santa Clara ..••.. ••
Redlands . . .... .. 300 Redlands ..••• .... •• San Bernardino •• . .•
Ontario . . .... .. .. 301 Ontario •..•..•.•••• San Bernardino ...• •
Santa Lucia ..... . 302 Kings' City .. .• .••. Monterey

I

I

·············

·············

.

..........

•

11, l8i7.
"
"
"
"
10, 1878.
''
''
, .,
"
16 1879
" ' "
"
"
" .
"
15, 1880.
"
"
''
''
"
"

Oct.
Oct.

15,
12,

"
"

"

... ..... Oct.
··········· "
····· ········ Oct.
"

..........

.. ........

Oct.
"
"
Oct.
''
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
''
"

"

1881.
1882.

"

"

11,

1883.

"

"

"
"
"t<

" "
16, 1884.
" "
16, 1884.
" "
"
"
16, 1885.
" ,.,
"
"
" "

Oct.

14,

"
"
"

"
" "
" "
" "
11, 1888.

"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

II

"
"
"
"
10,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

1886.

"
"
"
"
1889.
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

50 ......
9
50
5 . 18
50
3
9
80
3
\l
40
1
\l
30 ..... .
!I
3!)
1
9
50
8 J2
50 . .....
\J
50 . . . . . .
\I
30
3
!l
50 .. ....
\I
50 15 12
50 .... .. 1 12

50
l
50
1
50
2
30
ti
.
.....
30
50 1
00 ······
1
30

9
12
12
9
9
9
1()

50 ......

1
1
...... . 9
..... 9
9
12
9
9
...... 9
....... 9
9

......

......

30
50 ······
50 ......
40 ......

g

9
9
10
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

5~6

152
336
424
86
45
63
148

ti
0
l1'J

00

0

"J

...,
~

~

93
219
86
35\l
714
6~

135
218
104
48
54
565
183
42
480
84
64
89
180
667
194
]3()

65
40
176
83
77
150
75
78
850
1110
143
162
86
li9
572
128
205
270
168
72

Q

:.i

>

~

ti

s
ti

0

t'1

0
"'2
(")

>
t"'
.....
"'2

0
:.i

z
.....

>

w

""""

230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242

Fallbrook ........ 317 Fallbrook •......... San Diego •.........
Emmanuel ....... 318 Biggs .............. Butte ......... .. .. .
Hollenbeck ..... . 319 Los Angeles ..... . .. Lo11 Angeles ....... .
South Gate ..... . 320 Los Angeles .. ..... . Los Angeles ... .. .. .
Alisal . .. . ...... . 321 Pleasanton .. ... .... Alameda ..•....... .
Alhambra ...... . . 322 Alhambra •........ . Los Angeles .. ..... .
Whittier .. ..... .. 323 Whittier • . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . ... .
Corona .• ........ . 324 Pasadena ......... . Los Angeles . ... ... .
Consuelo .... . . . .. 325 Escondido .......... San Diego • .. ... ... .
Needles .. ...... . . 326 Needles •..... . ..... San Bernardino .... .
Long Beach ..... . 3"27 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles . • ......
Redondo ......... 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles· ....... .
Vallee de France . . 329 Los Angeles ... ..... Los Angeles . . ..... .

1

I

243 Kilauea ......... . 330 Hilo ......... . ..... Hawaiian Ter.. .... .
244 Pacific Grove ..... 331 Pacific Grove .. . .... Monterey .... . .....
245 San .P edro ....... 332 San Pedro .•..• , ..... Los Angeles •.....•.
246 Alta . . .. ....... . . 333 Bri~gep~rt .•..•.••• Mono ..•..... . ....•
247 Covina . .. . . .. . .. 334 Covina ........ • . • .• Los Angeles . . .... . •
248 West Gate . ...... 335 Los Angeles •. .•.. • • Los Angeles .. ... •.•
249 Fruitvale .. ....•. 336 Oakland .... . . ... . . Alameda ... . .. .....
250 Carquinez . .. . .... 337 Crockett .. , ........ Contra Costa . .. . . . •
251 San Jacinto . . . .. . 338 San Jacinto . . .. .... Riverside .. ..... .. •
252 Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton ···· ··· ··· Orange
··· ··
253 Oxnard .. . ....... 341 Oxnard ............ . Ventura ·······
···········
254 San Fernando .. .. 343 Fernando ·-·········· Los Angeles
• ... .. ..
255. Starr King ...... . 344 San Francisco . . . ... San Francisco . . ...•
256 Brentwood ..... . . 345 Brentwood .. . ... ... Contra Costa .. . ....
257 Palo Alto .. . .... 346 Palo Alto .•.. ... ... Santa Clara . . . . ....
258 McKinley ........ 34 7 Richmond ....... . .• Contra Costa . . . ...•
259 San Bernardino . .. 348 San Bernardino .. . . San Bemardino ....•
260 Sequoia . . . ...... . 349 Oakland . ..... .. ... Alameda . ..........•
261 Palestine . . . ..... 351 Los Angeles . ....... Los Angeles . . . . . . .
262 Sunset . . .... . .... 352 Los Angeles . ..• .. . . Los Angeles .• . .....
263 Pinole . ...... .. . . 353 Pinole ....... • ...... Contra Costa .....•.
264 Presidio ..... .... 354 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
265 Hollywood . . , .... 355 Hollywood .. . .... _• . Los Angeles .. .....•
266 Mill Valley ... . . . 356 Mill Valley ... . ..... :Marin ....... .. ..• •
267 Buena Park ...... 357 Buena Park ...... . . Orange •. .. ... . . ..•
268 Golden Gate .. .. . . 358 Los Angeles •.. •. . .. Los Angeles ..... . .•
269 Loyalton . ... . .... 359 Loyalton ...... .. ... Sierra . .. ..... .. . . ••
270 Sah Francisco . ... 360 San Francisco ... . .. San Francisco . . . . .•
271 Fort Bragg . • .... 361 F ort Bragg . .. . .. . .. M endocino . . •. ... . •
272 Charit y . .. . .. .. .. 362 Campbell .. .. ....... Santa Clara . ..... . •
273 Berkeley .. ....... 363 Berkeley .. . . . .... . . Alameda ..........•
274 Willits .... ....... 365 Willits ............ Mendocino .•.. . ..••
275 Las Palmas ...... 366 Fresno . . ...... . ..•. Fresno .............
276 South Pasadena ... 367 South Pasadena .. . . Los Angeles ....... •
277 Unity .••• •• .•••. 368 Glendate
·······
···· Los Angeles . _• • •...•
278 Ocean Park .. . . .. 369 Ocean Park
........ Los Angeles ..•...••
279 Amity .. . ........ 370 San Francisco- .•.... San Francisco ••• . .•

,,

"

''

"

''11, 1894.
''
''
,,
,., "
'' ,,
11, 1895.
.,, ''
"
"

35
5
80 . 10
100 15
35 ..... .
50 ..... .
30
3
50
8

13, 1896.

30 . ... ..
50
1

''
''
15, 1897.
"
"

50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 12

Oct.

"
., '
"

Oct.

''

"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"

Oct.

"
"
"

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

..
"
"
"

"
"
"
Oct.

"
"" .

"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
"

..

15, 1897

"
"
"
"
"
14, 1898.

14, 1899.

"
"
"
"
"
"
11, 1900.

10, 1901. .
15, 1.~02,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"16, 1903
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
" "
"13, 1904.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
12, 1905.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

.. "

"

30

5

50 ......
50 ......
75 ......
53 ......
30 ......
80

20

55 ......

50 ......
40 ......

75 ......
50
1
50 ..... .
75 10
50 ......
55 4%
58 ......
5
55
1
55
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
75 15
80 10
50 ······

30 ..... .
50 ......
50 .. .. ..

75 ......
5
30 ......
5
55
50

50

l

75

3

75

5

50 ......
50
3
50 .... ..

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

47
59
1204

12

110

12

189

9

12

766

87
292
247
436
117
167

0

tl

Q

tc.I
rn

0
':cJ
"l

::i:
tc.I

471

208

73

32 1
9
27
9
186
9 · 532
12
527
9
115
9
128
12
310
9
313
9
106
12
379
12
105
9
292
9
261
9
331
9
754
9
414
9
515
12
118
12
421
g
617
12
272
9
102
9
686
9
32
12
330
9
i8
9
102
9
507
9
109
.9
425
9
200
9
293
219
12
423

0

:lJ

z>
tl

t"

0
tl
0

tc.I
0.
':cJ

(j

>

t"
.....

':cJ
0
:lJ

z

>

w
w

<.n

2 94
2 95
2 96
2 97
2 98
2 99
3 00

3 01
3 02
3 03
3 04
3 05

. ··········

"
Dinuba •......... 385 Dinuba •............ Tulare ..............
"
Coalinga ......... 387 Coalinga ...•....... Fresno ..•........ .'.
"
Parnassus ........ 388 San Francisco .....•. San Francisco ......•
"
Palos Verdes ..... 389 Long Beach .•....... Lo.s Angeles .........
"
Imperial ......... 390 Imperial
Imperial
Oct.
East Belt ........ 391 Tuolumne
Tuolumne .......... • "
West Lake ....... 392 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles. . . . .. .
"
Balder . , ......... 393 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
"
University ....... 394 Los Angeles •••...... Los Augeles ......•..
"
Turlock .......... 395 Turlock ....••...... Stanislaus ..........
Apollo ........... 396 Alameda ........•.. Alameda .....•.....
"
Rising Light ...... 397 Huntington Pa.rk .... Los Angeles .........
"

···········
..........

···········

306 Fraternity ....... 399 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ........
307 'Burlingame ..... .400 Burlingame ......... San Mateo .........
308 Bay View ....... .401 Oakland ........... Alameda ...........
309 Brawley ........ .402 Brawley ··········· Imperial ···········
310 Y erba Buena .... .403 Oakland..... .. ..... Alameda ...........
311 Glendora ........ .404 Glendora ........... Los Angeles .......
312 Moneta ......... .405 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......
313 Burbank ........ .406 Burbank ........... Los Angeles ...... .
314 La Mesa· ........ .407 La Mesa ............ San Diego ..........
315 Sierra Madre ..... 408 Sierra Madre ........ Los Angeles.·.......
316 Honolulu ....... .409 Honolulu .......... Rawl.ii ............
317 Charter Rock .... 410 Berkelev ........•.. Alameda ...........
318 Perris . .. ....... .411 Perris ............. Riverside . .........
319 Calexico ........ .412 Calexico ........... Imperial ...........
320 Waucoba . . . .. . . . 413 Big Pine .... . ...... Inyo ...............
321 Arlington ....... .414 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
322 Silver Trowel. ... .415 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
323 Lindsay ........ .416 Lindsay
. ...........
··········. Tulare
324 Clovis .......... .417 Clovis
Fresno ........... ·'
·············
325 Elysian ......... .418 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
326 Upland .......... 419 Upland
San Bernardino .....
327 Kerman ......... .420 Kerman ············
....••.•.... Fresno ......•...... .
328 Inglewood ....... .421 Inglewood ...•....... Los Angeles .•..... .
329 Eagle Rock ...... 422 Eagle Rock ......... Los Angeles ........ .
330 York ........... .423 Watts ..•..•........ Los Angeles ........
331 Exeter . .......... 424 Exeter ....•....... Tulare ............•
332 Holtville ........ .425 Holtville ............ Imperial ...........
333 Midway ........ .426 Taft •...........•.. Kern ..... . ...... ..
334 Chino Valley ..... 427 Chino .............. San Bernardino ....•
335 San Dimas ....... 428 San Dimas .•....... Los Angeles .......•
336 Pittsburg ........ 429 Pittsburg ...•...... Contra Costa ...... •
337 McCloud ........ .430 Mccloud ............ Siskiyou ..•.......•
338 Alpha .......... .431 Richmond .......... Contra Costa .....••

..

Oct.

"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
Oct.

"
"
"
"

"
15,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

15,

13,

"
"
"
""
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

.

1908

10
40 ······
75 ......
80 10

12

50 ......
50 10

9

50

"
"
"
"
"

5
50
80 ......
50 10
75 ... ...
40 ......
1
80
50 ......

1908

50 ·· ····
55 ····· ·
1
50
5
50

"
"

" "
14, 1909.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"14, 1909.
"

Oct.

'

"
"
"
"
"

1910.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
"
"
"11, 1911.
"
" "
"
"
" "
12, 1912.
". "
" "
" "
" "
"'" ""
" "
" "

bf>

25

30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
50
3
50 .....
50 10
5
55
s
30
5
50

9

12
12
12
9

%0

u

~

12
9
9

9
12
9

9

12

71

9
9

425
93
77
80
231
477
76
122
' 39
l!l9
213
86
87
321
87
56
134

9
9

12
9

IO
12

35 .... ..

0
l'=.1

rn
0

'zJ

...,
:i::

ti:.1 •

~

246
239
ao5
102
311

9

30 ······ ......
9
50 ······
9
50 ......
5o ...... 9
9
50 .....
9
5
50
9
3
50
9
35 ......
3
9
50
9
50 ···.···
9
60 ......
50 ······ 10
9
50 ..• ...
100 ...... 9
9
50 ......

50
1
50 ......
55 ......

173
167
215
410
345
75
60
818
383
447
133
251
2l7

71
8\.J

0
:ti

>
z
ti

t'
0
t1

a

l:<J

0

"l
Q -

>
t"
l;j

0
:ti

z
....

>

97
88

2:n

51
115

12

71

9

63
330

(.,;
(.,;
...._,

352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
364

La J>uente ...... .446 Puente ............ Los Angeles ........
Torrance . . . . . . . .447 Torrance ..........• Los Angeles ........
Mt. Diablo ...... 448 Concord ........... Contra Costa .......
Park .. ......... .449 San Francisco .... .. San Francisco ......
Van Nuys ....... 450 Van Nuys
····· Los Angeles ........
Montebello ...... 451 Montebello ...... ... Los Angeles ........
San Pasqual ..... 452 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ........
Bethlehem ...... .453 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .... . . ;
Crocker ......... .454 Daly City ........... San Mateo ..........
Golden West .... .455 San F<anomoo ...... r n F<and"o .......
Kennett ......... 456 Kennett ........... Shasta . ............
Ramona ......... 457 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles . .......
Henry S. Orme .... 458 Los Ar geies ........ Los Angeles ........

365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372

Riverbank ....... 459,Riverbank ......... Stanislaus ......... . Oct.
Mount Oso ...... .46ll Tracy ............. San Joaquin ....... . .OCt.
Argonaut ....... .461. San Ji'rancisco ..•... San Francisco ...... .
Paul Revere .... .462 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...... .
"
Morgan Hill .... .463 Morgan Hill ........ Santa Clara . ...... .
"
Alta Vista ...... .46± San Francisco ..•... San J<'rancisco ...... .
"
Center .......... 46:J Fresno ..... ....•... Fresno ........... .
"
Libertas ......... 466 Bakersfield ......... Kern .... . ........ . Oct.
Culver City ..... .46i Culver City ......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
Rockridge ...... .468 Oakland .......•... Alameda ....... ..•.
"
Yorba Linda ..... 469 Yorba Linda. . . . . . . . Orange .......... : .
Oct.
Lincoln ......... .470 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
Delta ............ 471 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ...... .
"
Maui ............ 4i2 Kahului ............ Hawaiian Ter..... .
"
Blythe ........... 473 Blythe ....... . ..... San Bernardino .... . Oct.
Victory ......... .474 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
America ........ .475 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •......•
Oct.
Coachella ........ 476 Coachella .......... Riverside ......... .
"
Temblor ......... 477 Fellows ............ Kern .............. .
"
Thousand Oaks ... 478 Berkeley ....... . ... \Alameda ... .
"
Golden Rule .... .479 San Jose ....... . ... Santa Clara ....... .
"
Fellowship ...... .480 Oakland ........ . ... Alameda .......... .
"
Mt. Davidson ... .481 San Francisco ....... 1San Francisco ..... .
"
Clarence F. Smith.482 Los Angeles .... . ... Los Angeles ....... .
"
Bell · ............ .483 Be II ................ Los Angeles ....... .
"
Albert Pike ..... .484 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
Chowchilla ...... .485 Chowchilla ......... Madera ........... .
"
Caledonia ....... 486 Bakersfield ......... Kern ............. ·.
"
Vallejo .......... 487 Vallejo ............. Solano ............ .
"
Patterson ....... .488 Patterson .......... Stanislaus .........•
"
East Bay ....... .489 South Berkeley ..... Alameda ..........•
"
Corcoran ........ .490 Corcoran .••••....•• •Kings .............•
"
Woodstock ...... .491. Alameda ........... Alameda .......... .
"
Garvanza ....... .492 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
"
Atascadera ...... 493 \ tascadera •....•••• San Luis Obispo .... .
"
Acorn .......... .494,0akland •.•..•.•..• Alameda .......... .
"

373

374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
3113
394
395
396
397
398
399
400

..

..

I

I

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

14,

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1915.
"

"

"
"
"
"

22,

rn t.i

,,12,
''
,,
,,
,,

1916
.,

11,

l!H7.

,, _
''
''
''

"
''
"10, 1918.
''
''
"
"
"
''
"16, 1919.
"
''
14, 1920.
'' ,,
''

"
''
"
''
''
"
''
''

''

"
''
,_,

''
"
''
"''

''

"
"
"
''
"
"
"
''
''
,,"
''
"
"
''
,",

40
1
50 ······
50
5
80 lU
50
3

12
\)

9
12
9

...... ...... .... ..
50 10
80 10
5
50
50 10
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......

ggl""6

80 ......
5
501 10
105, .... ..

100.

81) .... ..

80 .... ..
50 .... ..
50 10
50 ......
50 10
50 ..... .
75
5
50 10
50 ..... .
50 .... ..
100 .... ..
5
55
75 ......
55
l
80 ..... .
55 ..... .
70 .... ..
50
5
50
1
80 ......
75 10
2
70
55 ......
1
75 10

80
1
50 ......
100 25
55 10

12
12
12
12
9
9
9

9
9
12
12
9
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
..
9
12

62
81
78

339
94
90
142
251
103
324
53
101
330

65
107
183
420
33
133
1J8
103
63
158
56
128
149
97
49
77
9
84
9
35
9
69
9
58
9
41
12
41
12
51
9
51
9
32
9
35
12
22
12
34
9
25
I+
40
9
25
12
20
9
23
9
15
12
23
9
27
176,873

8trJ
w

0'lj .

...,
~

trJ

~

Cl
:0

>

z

t1

b
t1
Cl
l"l
0
"l

C'.l

>
t"'
....
'lj

0
:0

z
....

>

(.,.)
(.,.)

\0

34 Santa Clara . ...... ,Santa Clara ...... ,Santa Clara ..... ·1May
36 Butte . .. . .. . . .... Bidwell ......... Butte ......... . . May
39 Yuba ....... . ... Marysville ••••.• Yuba •...... ..... May

5, 1853 ,0ct.
3, 1854 Sept.
3, 1854 June

47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
67
69

Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ... Placer . . ..... .. . May
Grass Valley ...... Grass Valley ..... N.e vada ......... May
Lebanon ........ San Francisco .. .. San Francisco .... May
Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ......... May
Franklin .......•. Sacramento ..... Sacramento ...... May
Saint James ...... Jamestown . ..•... ruolumne ... .... May
Geo. Washington • Chinese damp .... Tuolumne ... : ... May
Iowa Hill ........ [owa Hill ........ Placer .......... May
Minnesota ....... Minnesota ...... . Sierra .. •.... ... . May
Ind. Royal Arch .. Marysvi.lle .•... . Yuba ..•..•..•.. May

3, 1854 IOct.
3, 1854 May
3, 1854 IJune
3, 1854 INov.
3, 1854 May
2, 1855 Feb.
8, 1856 :sept.
3, 1855 Oct.
2, 1855 May
2, 1855 Mav

69

Corinthian ....... ,Marysville ...... I Yuba .... . ...... 1May

2, 1855 1Dec.,

71
72

73
74
75
77
82
83
85
86
88
88
90
92
93
94
98
99
100
102
105
107
108
109

1

"'.I

15, 1887 Revoked.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
6, 1856 Surrendered.
29, 1857 Revoked.
1864 Surrendered.
10, 1856 Surrendered.
20, 1857 Surrendered.
15, 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8.
29, 1857 Surrendered.
14, 1859 SurrenC:.ered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
69.

~

=
l"I

1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
Nebraska .... .... Michigan Bar .. .. Sacramento ...... May 2, 1855 Oct.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
E. K. Kane ....... Nevada ......... Nevada ......... May 2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
Tyro . . : ......... Drytown ........ Amador ........• May 2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
Franklin · .. . . ..... Meadow Valley ... Plumas . .. . ..... May 15, 1857* . . ......... . .. Charter never issued.
Wisconsin Hill .... Wisconsin Hill ... Placer ....... . .. May 3; 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
Mountain Forest .. Eureka North .. .. Sierra ........... May 2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
Petaluma ........ Petaluma ........ Sonoma ... . ..... May 2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
Mountain . ....... Don Pedro's :Jlar: /Tuolumne ....... ,May 8, 1856 jMay 18, 1861 Surrendered.
Rising Star ....... Forest Hill . . . .... Placer .... . ..... May
8, 1865 Sept.
3, 1919 Consolida ted with Eureka No. 16. 0
Indian Diggings ... Indian Diggings. . El Dorado ....... May 8, 1856 loct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No. ~
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
z>
Saint Louis ...... :!Rowland's Flat . . . !Sierra ..•. . ..... !May 8, 1856 INov.,
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
t1
No. 158.
t'
Uni.t y .... .. .. ... Orleans Flat ..... ,Nevada ......... May 8, 1856 May
0
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
Quitman . ... . .... North Bloomfield. Nevada ......... May 8, 1856 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13. 0t1
Polar Star .. ...... Poorman 's Creek. Plumas ..•...... May 8, 1856 May
8, 1858 Surrendered.
t:cJ
Acacia . .. ....... Coloma .... . .... El Dorado ...•... May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 0
'%j
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
Caymus .......... IYountville ...... !Napa ........... !May 8, 1856 !Oct.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to ~
St. Helena.
t"'
Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown ... !Plumas ..... . ... ·1May 8, 1856 !Dec.
:;j
24, 1859 Surrendered.
Quartzburg ....... Quartzburg ...... Mariposa ........ May 8, 1856 ............. . Name changed to Hornitas. ,
~
La Grange ....... Merced ......... Merced ..... . ... May 9, 1856 Oct.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.- z
Campo Seco ....... Campo Seco . . .... Calaveras ....... ,May 8, 1856 Oct.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
;;
No. 78.
Manzanita ....... North San Juan .. Nevada . ....•... May 8, 1856 !Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
Siskiyou ......... Henley .. . . .. .. . Siskiyou .. .. .... 1May 15, 1856 Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
No. 37.
Mount Jefferson . .. !Garrotte ......... !Tuolumne ... .... !May 14, 1857 !Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol. umne No. 8.
Owen •... .. .. •... !Scott's Bar ....... !Siskiyou ..... . ... IMay 14, 1857 IOct.
15, 1908,Consolidated with North Star
No. 91.
w
Dibble .....••.•.. !Omega .....•.... !Nevada ........ . ay 14, 1857 !Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.

I

-.,.,

154 Carson .••..•.•••• Carson City ..... . Nevada Ter . .. ... May
155 Mount Carmel. .•.• Red Dog . ... ...•. Nevada .... ....• May
157 Washoe ..•.•••••• Washoe City .... •. Nevada Ter ...... May
158 Gibsonville .••••• ,Gibsonville ... . .• Sierra ....... . ..• May
159 Gilroy . .•. ..• •••. IGilroy .......... Santa Clara . .. .. . May
160 Pilot Hill . .......• Pilot liill . .... .. . El Dorado .. . . . .. 'May
162 Virefoia City .•..• Virginia City....• Nevada Te,. . ..... May
163 Silver City ..••.•• Silver City . .... .. Nevada T er ... . .. 1May
165 Silver Star ..•..•. Gold Hill ..... . .. Nevada Ter .... . Oct.
170 Esmeralda .•••.•• Aurora , . . ·....... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
171 Es curial •••..•••• Virginia City ..•. Nevada Ter .•.... Oct.
:.12 Lander •.••.••••• Austin • ...... ... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Alpine •....•.•••• M.arkleeville .. . . Alprne . ·. .. ... ... May
175 Claiborne ..•••••. Antioch .. ...... • 1Contra Costa ..... Oct.

·I

>-3

15, 1862 July
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872 Surrendered.
14. 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
1863 Oct.
15, 1908 Jonsolidated with Jefferson No. 97.
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
14, 1863 D ec.,
1898 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
14, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan.
14, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
25, 1864* Oct.
12, 1865 . . ..... . ...... Name changed to Antioch.

Merced .....••••• \Snelling ••.••.••• jMerced ... .. ...• \Oct.
Aztlan . • ...•.•••. Prescott .. ....•.. !Arizona Ter .. . : .. Oct.

l'l

14;

16, 1879 Surrendered.
251 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
11, 1866 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated ~ ith Petaluma No.
77 as No. 180.
180 Arcturas ...•••. . • Petaluma .•..• •• Sonoma. . . . . . . . . . Oct.
10, 1867 Oct.
16, 1919 Name changed to Arbuckle.
·
182 Meridian ••.••.•• Arbuckle ......• Colus a ... .. .... . Oct. 10, 1867 . . .. . ... ...... \Name changed to Claiborne.
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
185 Arenas ........... Punta Arenas .... Mendocino ...... Oct. 15, 1868 Dec.,
189 Latrobe ... .... ... Latrobe · ...... . • • E l Dorado ..•. .. . Oct. 14, 1869 July
20, 1872 Surrendered.
197 Paradise ........• Haywards •..•.. . Alameda . . ....•. Oct. 30, 1870* .............. Charter nev er issued.
Rocklin ..•...•.•• Rocklin ..•.... • . Placer ........•.• July 14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
1
18, 1881 Name changed to Mosaic.
213 Bodega ........•. Bodega .....•..• \Sonoma .•....••. Oct. 11, 1872 Oct.
Plea~anton
....•.•
Liv.ermore
..
..
.
..
Alam~~a
...
.
.
.
..
Oct.
18, 1873 Nov. 17, 1877 Surrendered.
218
Mam
.
..
.
...•.••.
iWa1luku
..
•..•..•
Hawau
.
.
.
..
:
...
f'ct.
223
18, 1873 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
227 Contra Costa ..•••. Somersville ... . .• Contra Costa ..... v .:t. 14, 1875 Oct.
16, 1884 Surrendered.
Tyre
....
.
...••.•
Gold
Run
..•
.
.•.
.
Placer
.••......•
Oct.
238
14, 1875 Sept. 26, 1890 Surrendered.
Pescadero
..
..
.••.
Pescadero
.......
San
Mateo
.
....
.
.
Oct.
14, 1875 April
1, 1882 C.onsolidated with Colusa No. 142
239
aii Colusa No. 240.
240 Equality . • . . .••.. Colusa.. • ..• .. •• Colusa ••. . •..... Oct.
10, 1878 Oct .
16, 1896 Con solidated with Sincerity No . 132
249 Greenville ... . •... Greenville .. ... . . Plumas ....... .. . Oct. 10, 1878 Ap.r il 19, 1888 Surrendered.
20, 1918 Consolida t ed with Winnedumah
251 Brotherhot>d ..•.. Duncan's Mills . .. Sonoma ... .• .... Oct. 10, 1878 Dec.
No. 287.
252 Bodie .. .... . •••• Bodie .. ..... .... Mono .. .. .. ..... Oct.
16, 1879 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
257 Arizona ... • .•.••• Phoenix .....••• Arizona Ter ...... Oct.
4, 1881* Mch. 25, 1882 Trnn~ferred to jurisdiction of
Solomon . .... . ••• Tomb~tone ...••• Arizona Ter ...... June
Anzona.
15 1881 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
1
·
Arizona.
263 Tucson • . . . . . .. • . . Tucson . .•..•.. • !Arizona Ter ... .. . Oct.
10, 1895 Rev oked.
Oct.
11,
1883
26, 1888 Surrendered.
270 Fall River . .•..•• Burgettville .... · !Shasta .. ••. •..• • Oct. 16, 1884 'M ay
11, 1911 ConsolidatedwithWoodlandNo.156
276" Westport ... .•• •• Westport ......•. Mendocino . . ...•. Oct. 14, 1886 Oct.
Tyrian
•..•.
.••
•••
Dunnigan
•..
.•
.•
·1
Yolo
.....•
..•••.
Oct.
284
16, 1890 Dec. 25, 1919 Consolidat ed with Calaveras No. 78.
Mokelumne
Hill
.•
Mokelumne
Hill
..
Calaveras
.•.
•
.•
•
Oct.
16, 1902 Consol'<iated with Oxnard No. 341.
298
12, 1892 Oct.
311 Hueneme ..•.. •.. Hueneme ..•• .• .• Ventura ...•.. . .. Oct. 11, 1900 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with He&J>"rian No. 264.
Santa
Maria
.
.....
anta
Maria
.
.•••
•.
Santa
Barbara
...
•
Oct.
19, 1912 Trans • .irred to jurisdiction of
340
10, 1901 D ec.
Philippine _Islands.
342 mamla ..•..••••. Manila •••••••••• !Philippine Islands Oct.

176
177

=

12, 1865 Oct.
11, 1866 Mch.

0

"z>
tl

t"'
0

tl

0

t_:ij

0

'xJ
()

t

qi

@
z
....
>

(N

.j>.
(N

344

EXTINCT LOJJGllS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

345

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Lodgea.

:.c-i
c-1

<1>

s

"'

'/,

....
0

·""
·o

:z

"''So... ~~
Q)

...

0

0

i~

0 ...
~C!)

Grand Secretarle1.

Realdencee.

Organized

Alabama •..•..•.•• George A. Bea uchamp.Montgomery •..... June 16, 1821
Alberta ...... . .... S. Y. Taylor . ...... . .. .Calgary ..•..... . .. Oct. 12, 1905
Arizona ........... George J. Roskruge ... Tucson ............ Mar. 26, 1882
Arkansas .. . .......F ay Hempstead .... . • Llttle Rock . . .....• Mar. 26, 1882
British Columbla ...W. A. DeWolf Smith .. New Westmins ter.Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ............ W. W. Logan . ........ liamllton •. : • ...... Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado . . .........Charles H. Jacobson ..•Denver ......•... . . Aug. Z, 1861
8, 1789
Connecticut ....... George A. Kies . ...... . .Hartford • • .•..•...July
Delaware .......... Harry J'. Guthrie . . •..~llmlngton ..... ... June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbla .. Arvlne W. Johnston .•. washlngton ....... Feb. 19, 1811
Florida ............Wilber P. Webster ....Jacksonville ...... . J uly . 6, 1830
Georgia. ........... Frank F. Baker . . .. • Macon •••.•.......• Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho , , . , ........ ..Geo. E. Knepper .... ..Boise . . ....•.. ••• . •Dec. 17, 1867
Illlnels . ••.••••••• .•Jsaac Cutter ..... . .. . . Camp Point ...... •April 6, 1840
Indiana. ••. . •••• ; • .•Wm. H . Gwlnt z . .. .. .. Indianapolis .• • , .• Jan. 12, 1818
Iowa .............. Newton R. Parvin .....Cedar Rapids ......Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas . . . . ........ Albert K. Wilson ......Topeka ............ Mar. 17, 1866
Kentucky , . .•• .• ..•Dave Jackson .... .• ...Louisville ... . ......Oct.
8, 1800
Louisiana. .........John A . Davilla .... . .. New Orleans .... . . June 20, 1812
Maine . . , ..... ..... Chas. B . Davis . . ..... .Portland .......... June 1, 1820
Manitoba , ....• , ...James A. Ovas . .. .....Wlnnepeg •..••..•• May 12, 1876
Maryland .....•••• George Cook ... .. .....Baltimore ••.•.•... April 17, 1887
Massachusetts . . . .Fred'k W . Hamilton . .Boston ..........•. Mar. 8, 1777
Michigan ...••.•• • •Lou B. Winsor .. . ..• . . Grand Rapids ...... Sept . 17, 1844
Minnesota •• , ......John Fishel ......... •• Saint Paul •....• .. Feb. 23, 1863
Mlsslsslf pl ••••••.•oliver L. McKay ..... .Vicksburg •••••••••July 27, 1818
Mlssour . •• • , ••••.•John R. Parson .... . .. St. Louis .......... May
4, 1821
Montana .....•••... Cornelius Hedges, Jr •• Helena ........... .Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska. • ••..•...•Francis E. White . . . .. Omaha •.......•... Sept. 23, 1867
Nevada. .•.•....•• .-Edward D. Vanderlelth,Reno .. . ........ .. . . Jan. 16, 1865
New Brunswick •. •J . Twining Hartt ..... Saint John •.. .... .. Oct . 10, 1867
New Hampshire .. .•Harry M. Cheney., .. .Concord ..... , .•... July
8, 1789
New Jersey ....... Isaac Cherry . . ....... .Trenton •......•... Dec. 18, 1786
New Mexico •..•..• Alpheus A. Keen , ....• Albuquerque •.••. ,Aug.
7, 1877
New York ......... Robert J. Kenwort hy .New York ......... Sept, 5, 1781
North Carolina ...• W . W. Willson .. . .. . .Raleigh • ••....... "Dec. 12, 1T77
North Dakota .••.• waiter L . Stockwell . .. Fargo ..............June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia •• .. •• • J a mes C. Jones . . ..... Halifax .•••.••• . .. Jan. 21, 1866
Ohio . .. • ; .••..••.• Ja<!ob H. Bromwell . .. Cincinnati .... .... Jan.
7, 1808
Oklahoma •.•...•.• Wm. M. Ander son .. • • Oklahoma City . . ..Nov. 10. rnon
Oregon ........•..• James F. Robinson .... Portland . , .......• Sept. 15, 1861
Pennsylvania ......John A. Perry .........Philadelphia. .•. • .• Sept. 26, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .. L. M. McKinnon . . ... . .Montague ........ . . June 24, 1875
Quebec ..... . ......Walter C. Ha11;ar . . ... .Montreal .. .......•Oct . 20, 1869
Rhode Island .•..• s. Penrose Williams . . Providence • , , •. , ••June 27, 1791
~askl\tchewan .... . .. W. B. •ra te .. . ..... , ..Regina. ...........• Aug.
9, 1906
South Carolina ... . o . Frank Hart. . .. ....Columbia ..........Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota ... . Geo. A. Pettigrew .... .Sioux Falls ........ July 21, 1775
Tenne~see ......... Stith M. Caln .. . . .. .. . Nashvllle ...... ....Dec.
27, 1813
Texas ............. W. B. Pier s on ........ W aco . .......... . . Dec. 20, 1837
Utah .. . .......•••• F rf'e innn A. McCarty .Salt Lake City ... . .Jan. 17, 1872
Vermont •..•...•..•Frank A. R oss .. . . . . .. Burlington ... .... .Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia. ..•..•. . •.• Charles A . Nesbitt ..•. Richmond •. ..... ..Oct. 13, 1778
Washington ....... Horace W. Tyler .....• Tacoma . .... ....... Dec.
8, 1858
'West Virginia ...•• J ohn M. Collins . • . , •. . C harleston . ... ..... May 11, 1866 '
Wisconsin •. ... •..• William W. Perry •••••Milwaukee •...... .Dec. 18, 1843
Wyomlnc ••.•• ••..• Jos. .M. Lowndes . .... . Casper ... . .. ... ... D ec. 15, 1874

346

347

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18m DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

Year
Elected.
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
;.891
1892
1893
1894
1&95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

·usT OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt ........
•John A. Tutt ............. •Benjamin D. Hyam ..
•Benjamin D. Hyam .....• •Charles M. Radcliff ..
•Charles M. Radcliff ...... *Townsend A . Thomas
*William H. Howard..... *Nathaniel G. Curtis..
*William H. Howard ..... •Townsend A. Thomas
*William H. Howard . . ... •John A Raymond .....
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Charles Marsh . . . . . . .
•Nathaniel G. Curtjs...... •Philip W. Shepheard.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... *Phlllp W. Shepheard.
*Nathaniel G. Curtis...... *Philip W. Shepheard.
•James L. English ......•. *William C. Belcher ..
*William C. Belcher ...... *Gilbert B . Claiborne. .
•William C. Belcher ...... •Gilbert B. Claiborne..
•William c . Belcher .....• *Gilbert B. Claiborne..
*Gilbert B. Claiborne . .. .. •William A. Davies ...
•Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... •Henry H. Hartley . . ..
*William A. Davies. . . . . . . •Henry H. Hartley. . . .
•Charles Marsh.... . .. . ... •Leonidas ·E. Pratt ....
*Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isaac . S. Titus ........
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ *Isaac S. Titus ........
•Leonidas E. Pratt ........ •Charles L. Wiggin ...
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ *BenJ. H. Fret1man...
*Isaac S. Titus........... George C. Perkins .. ,
George C. Perkins ........ •John M. Browne .....
•John M. Browne . ........ *Charles L. Wiggin . .•
•John M. Browne., ... . ... *Charles L. Wiggin . . .
*John M. Browne . . ... . ..• •Charles L. Wiggin •..
•John M. Browne . . ...... . •William W . Traylor ..
•William W. Traylor ...... •Samuel C. Denson ... ,
•Samuel C. Denson ....... *Clay W. Taylor .. .. .•
•clay W. Taylor .. , ....... •John Q. Adams......
*Clay W. Taylor .......... •.Jonathan D. Hines ...
•Jonathan D. Hines . ..... *Wiley i. Tinnin . , .. ..
•Jonathan D. Hines ...... *Wiley J . T innin .. ,. , .
*Wiley J. Tinnin . . , ... ... . *Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Edmund C. Atkinson .. ... •Hiram N. Rucker . ...
*Hiram N. Rucker........ •:Morris M. Estee ... ,.
*Morris M. Estee ......... •A!vah R. Conklin....
•Morris M. Estee ....... . . *William .Tohnston.,,.
*Alvah R. Conklin ......... *William Johnston....
*William Johnston. . ...... •Charles Ray Gritman.
*Charles R . Gritman ..... •Henry S. Orme .. , ... .
*Henry S. Orme . ..... . .... •James B . Stevens .. . .
•James B. Stevens . . ... . . . *Edward M. Preston . .
*Edward M. Preston.... . . William T . Luca11 . . . .

*Deceased

Senior
Grand Warden.
•Caleb Fenner.
•E. F. W. Ellis.
•Adolphus Hollub.
•John R . Crandall.
*Rector E . Cole.
•John A. Raymond.
•Lemuel Lyon.
•Aa ron D. Park.
*William McCormick.
*Ebenezer Lane.
*William C. Belcher.
•John W. Harville.
•John W. Harville.
•Louis Cohn.
•Wlll!a m A . Davies.
•Isaac S. Titus.
•wm. H . Peterson.
*Thomas Beck.
*Theodore G. Cockrill.
•John S. Ward.
•Charles L. Wiggin.
*Benj. H. Freeman.
George C. Perkins.
•John M. Browne.
•William B. Parker.
•Wiley J , Tinnin.
*William S. Wells.
*Willfam W. Traylor .
*Willia m H. Crane.
•Clay W . Taylor.
•John Q. Adams.
•Jonathan D. Hines.
*Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Hiram N. Rucker.
*Morris M. Estee. •
*Alvah R. Conklin.
•William Johnston
*Charles R . Gritman.
•Charles R . Gritman.
*Henry S. Orme.
•Ja mes B . Stevens.
•Edward M. Preston.
William T . Lucas.
Thomas Flint.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

•Mn•hel Woods ........ •Levi Stowell....... .
•John H. Glhon ......•
•benJ. s. Olds .. ,,,, ..• •Townsend A. Thomas . •Levi Stowell ......... .
•John R. McConnell.,, *Addison Martin ...•.. •Levi Stowell ..•.... • ..
•lllchard F. Knott., .. *Ad dison Martin ..... • •Levi Stowell . ... ,.·•·•
•llo!Jert N. Wood.,, .. *Addison Martin ...• . . •Levi Stowell . ........ .
•H 11m uel A. Merritt, . • •Addison Martin .•.... •Levi Stowell . .. .. . · · • ·
•Peter W . Randle . . • , . •Addison Martin. . • . • . •Alex G. Abell .. . • • · • •
•Joh n B . Bope . ... . .. . *Addison Martin ..... . *Alex. G. Abell . • · ·· · ··
•James W. Bicknell . .. *Add ison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell . ...... .
•Thomas P. Hawley .• *Addison Martin .. .... *Alex G. Abell ... . . . ••
•Alvlnza Hayward .. .• *Add ison Martin . . . .. . "Alex G. Abell .. ······
•Caleb E . Wilcoxon . • . •:Jam es Laldley .... . ... "Alex G. Abell . ... . . • ·
•Joh n B. Hewson ••... •James Laldley . ..... . •Alex G. Abell ...• . ...
•Will ia m A. Davies ... •James Laldley .. ..... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•llaac S. Titus .. . . .... •James Lo.ldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... •
•1tenry H. Hartley .... •Jam es Laidley ........ *Alex G . Abell ...... ..
•'l'homas Beck . . .. . .. •James Laldley .... . ... *Alex G. Abell .. · ···· ·
•Leonidas E . Pratt ...• •James Laldley. ,, ..... *Alex G. Abell . . . . • ···
•t•'l'ede rick F. Baras . . , •James Laldley .... . ... *Alex G . Abell ... • ·· ··
•tllchard Dale ........ •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Benj . H. Freeman ... •James Laldley ..... .. . *Alex G. Abell.• .... ..
Qao. C. Perkins ...... •James Laldley ..... . .. *Alex G . Abell . . .. •· · ·
•John M. Browne . , .• . •James Laldley . ...•... *Alex G. Abell ...•... ·
Chas . E. Mitchell .. .. •Jam es Laldley ..... .. . *Alex G. Abell .. .. ....
•Wiley J . Tinnin. ... . •.Tames Laldley . .. . .. .. •Alex G . Abell •• . . .. •.
•,Jacob H. Neff ... .... . •James Laldley ... .. . .. *Alex. G. Abell .... · .. ·
•Solon W. Craigue ...• • James Laldley . . . ... .. •Alex. G. Abell . . •• ····
•Wm . H. Crane . . . .. . . . •Moses Heller ...•... • , •Alex. G . Abell .· ···· ••
•nober t C. Broder .. .. •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G . Abell.····• ..
•John Q. Adams . . . . .. •Moses Heller .•......• *Alex. G . Abell.····••·
•Orrin W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ....••... "Alex. G . Abell.··· • ···
''l'homas J. Bowers .. . •Moses Heller ...•...•. "Alex. G. Abell.•••····
•Oeorge Hinds ........ •Moses ·Heller .• • ... • •• •Alex. G. Ab.e ll.• • ·· ·• ·
•Hira m N. Rucker .. • , •Moses Heller .....• .. . •Alex. G. Abell.··· ·• ··
•Hiram N. Rucker . . .. •Moses Heller ........ . 0 Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Hen ry H. Kna pp ..... •Nat han W. Spaulding. •A lex. G . Abell ... • ··· ·
•Alvah R. Conklin .... •Nathan W. ·Spauldlng. •Alex. G . Abell ....... .
•Wm. Johnston . . .. ... •Nathan W . Spaulding. *Alex: G. Abell .. • ....•
•Marc us D. Boruck .. . •Nat han W. Spaulding, "Alex. G . Abell • •.. . •. .
•Henry S. Orme ... . , . •Nat han W. Spaulding. 0 A lex. G . Abell ....••..
•Henr y s. Orme . .. . , . •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson . . ... .
•James B. Stevens ..• • •Nat han W. Spaulding. • George John son . · . . ··
•Edward M . Preston. , •Nat han W. Spaulding . •George Johns on .. . . . .
Wm. T . Lucas . . .... . "Edward Coleman .... . •George J ohn s on .. . . ..
Thomas Flint .... .. .. •Edward Colema n .. ... *George J ohns on ... · ..
Frank M . Angellot ti .. • E dward Coleman ... .. *George J o hnson . ... ··

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

348

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS o~· THE

M. ". W. ". GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850

Year.

Grand Master.

!896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1•02
1903
1304
1905
1906
1907
-1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920

William T. Lucas ...•....
Thomas Flint............ ..
Frank M. Angellotti ..... .
Charles L . Patton .....•.•
•James A. Foshay . .. ..... .
•William S. Wells ........ .
Orrin S. Henderson .....•
•Charles W . Nutting . .... .
George W. Hunter ...... .
Motley H. Flint .........•
•Edward H. Hart. ....... .
George M. Perine .......•
Oscar Lawler ........... .
•w. Frank Pierce . .......•
Dana R. Weller •.........
Alonzo J. Monroe ...... . .
Wm. P. Filmer ... ... . . . .
John D . Murphey ....... .
Benj. F. Bledsoe .... . .. . .
Albert G. Burnett ... .. . .
Francis V. Keesling ..... .
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .. . . .
Bradford Webster . .. .. . . .
Charles Albert Adams .. .
George F . Rodden ....... .

Deputy
Grand Maater,

Senior
Grand Warden.

Thomas Flint........ Frank M. Angellotti.
Frank M. Angellotti.. Charles L . Patton.
Charles L . Patton .... •James A. Foshay.
•James A. Foshay.... •William S. Wells.
•William S. Wells..... Orrin S. Henderson.
Orrin S. Henderson .. •Charles W. Nutting.
•Charles W. Nutting .. George W . Hunter.
George W. Hunter... Motley H. Flint.
Motley H. Flint.. .... •Edward H. Hart.
•Edward H. Hart..... George M. Perine.
Geo. M . Perine ....... •Reuben H . Lloyd.
•Reuben H . Lloyd..... Oscar Lawler.
•v . Fra nk Pierce.. . .. Dana R. Weller.
· Dana R. Weller...... Alonzo J . Monroe.
Alonzo J. Monroe.... Wm. P. Filmer.
Wm. P . Filmer.. . . .. John D. Murphey.
John D. Murphey. . . . Benj. F . Bledsoe.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ... .. Albert G. Burnett.
Albert G. Burnett.... Francis ·V , Keesling.
Francis V. Keesling . . Wm . Rhodes Hervey.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey . Bradford Webster.
Bradford Webster . . . Charles A. Adams.
Charles A. Adams. . . . George F. Rodd en.
George F . Rodden.... Samuel E. Burke.
Samuel E. Burke ... : William A. Sherman.

Junior.
Qr•nd Warden.

Grand Treaaurer.

Grand
Secretary

llhnrles L. Patton . . . •Edward Coleman ... . . •George Johnson .••. ..
•J11mes A. F oshay·..• . ~dward Coleman .... . •George Johnson ..... .
•W illiam S. Wells .... •Edward Coleman . ... . •George Johnson ... .. .
l)r1·in S. Henderson . . •Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson ..... .
•1•hnrles W . Nutting ..•Edward Coleman ..•.• •George JGhnson . . ...•
IJtoorge W . Hunter ... •Edward Coleman .. . .. •George Johnson .....•
Motley H . Flint. . .. . •Edward Coleman ... . • •George Johnson . .... •
•10.1ward H. Hart. ....•Edward Coleman .•... •George Johnson .. .. .•
IJeorge M. P e rine . . .. "Edward Coleman ....• •George Johnson .. ... •
•1t.,uben H. Lloyd •... •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
ll••·ar Lawler ...... . •Edward Coleman ....• •George Johnson .... ..
Frank Pierce . ... •Edwa rd Coleman ....• •George Johnson .•...•
Alonzo J. Monroe . .. . •Edward Coleman ..... John Whlcher .• ......
Willia m P . Filmer .. . •Edward Coleman . ..• John Whlcher .•......
,John D . Murphey .•. . "Edward Coleman ....• John Whlcher .• ... . . ,
llenJ. F . Bledsoe ... . "Edward Cqleman . . .. . J o hn Whlcher . • .. . . ..
Alhert G. Burnett. .. •Edward Coleman . ...• J ohn Whlcher .•.... ..
Jl'mncls V. Keesling .. Wm. P. Filmer .. . ·.. . John Which er ... .... .
W. Rhodes Hervey .. Wm. P. Filmer ...... . John Whlcher .. . .... .
llrnd ford Webster . . . Wm. P. Filmer ..... . John Whlcher . . .... . .
J ohn Whlcher .. ..... .
t!hnR. Albert Adams Wm. P. Filmer .. ... .
•ltoorge F . Rodden . .. Wm. P. Filmer . . . . •
John Whlcher. , ..... •
Wm. P. Filmer .... .
John Whlcher .•.. 1 • ••
lamuel E . Burke... .
Wiiiiam A. Sherman. Wm. P. Filmer ...... . John Whlcher ....... .
Arthur S. Crites .. .. . Wm. P . Filmer .. . . .. . John Whlcher . . . .. . . .

•w.

•Deceased.
•Deceased.

349

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H. E dwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
W m. H . Edwards.
Wm. H . Edwards.
W m. H. Edwards.
W m ; H . Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
T homa.a ::r. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas ::r. Baker.
T homas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Ba~ •
Thomae J. Baker.
T homas J. Baker .
T homas J . Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Ba k er
Thomas J . Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
T homas J. Baker.
Thomas J . BRker.

350

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocino.
Acacia ............. 438 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Acorn ...... . ..... . 494 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Adin •............. 250 Adin •....•........•. Modoc.
Alamo •.......•..•. 122 : Walnut Creek .•....• Contra Costa.
Alameda .........•. 167 Centerville .......... Alameda. .
Albert Pike ........ 484 Los Angeles . ........ Los Angeles.
Alcatraz ....•....•. 244 Oakland .........•.•• Alameda.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ........... Loe Angeles.
Alisa! ......•....... 321 Pleasanton •.......... Alameda.
Alpha .............. 431 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Alta .....•.. . •..... 333 Bridgeport •..•...... Mono.
Alta Vista . . ...... 464 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Alturas ..........• . 248 Alturas ..•••........•Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador •..........• 65 Jackson .•........... Amador.
America .......... .475 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ...•........ Orange.
Anchor ............ 273 Compton ............•Loe Angeles.
Antioch ....•..... . . 175 Antioch ..•••.• . ...•. Contra Costa.
Apollo .....•..... .. 396 Alameda •.... . ..•..•.Alameda.
Arbuckle .......... 182 Arbuckle ........•... Colusa.
Arcata ............. 106 Arcata •............. Humboldt.
Argonaut ... . ...... 461 San Francisco . .......San Francisco.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande ......•San Luis Obispo.
Arlington .......... 4U Los Angeles .. . ....... Los Angeles.
Artesia ..........•. 377 Artesia ........•..•.. Los Angeles.
Ashlar .•........••. 306 Colton •.•.......•...•San Bernardino.
Atascadero ........ .493 Atascadero .......... San Luis Obispo.
Athens ......•..... 228 Davis ............... Yolo.
Azusa .....•....... 305 Azusa ............... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield .......•. 224 Bakerefield .•.......• Kern.
Balder •............ 393 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Bay View ........ .401 Oakland .......•..... Alameda.
Bear Mountain ... • • 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Bell ........... . ... 483 B ell. ·: .. , .... . ....... Los Angeles.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Ben1c1a •.•• . .•.......Solano.
Berkeley •.......... 363 Berkeley •.••.......• Alameda.
Bethlehem . . . . . .. . . 453 San Francisco ......... San Francisco

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

351

Lodge.
No. Post OtHce.
County.
Bla ckmer . . . ... . . .. 442 San Diego . .... .. . . .. Sa n Diego.
Blythe ............ 473 Blythe ..... ... .. . ... San Bernardino.
Brawley .......... .402 Brawley .... . ..•. . ••. Imperial.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ..........•Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .••...•... 225 East Oakland .. . •.. • • Alameda.
Buckeye . • .... ••. ... 195 Winters ..·......• • .. . Yolo.
Buena Park , ...• , •• 357 Buena Park •.. , , • , , , .Orange.
Burbank .... ·...• , .. 406 Burbank . •....• , •••• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ....•••• -tOO Burlingame . . • ..• , , .. San Mateo.
Caledonia .. , ...... 486 Bakersfield .... .. . . , .Kern.
Calexico ......... , .412 Calexico ............• Imperial.
California • . . . . . • . • 1 San Francisco , .....•. San Francisco.
Cahveras ......... 78 San Andreas ......••. Calaveras.
Callayomi .... . •... 282 Middletown ... , , •..•. Lake.
Calistoga .. , ••• . .•. 233 Calistoga •...... , .... Napa.
Carpinteria ........ 444 Carpinteria .. . ..... . . Santa Barbara.
Carquinez •.••.. • ... 337 Crockett . . .. . ••... •. Contra Costa.
Center ............ .465 Fresno .. . ......... . .Fresno.
Charity · •.. • .. . •.•. 362 Campbell •.. , ...•.• , .Santa Clara.
Charter Rock .. . . . . .410 Berkeley . ... .. ....... Alameda.
Chico ...••.•... . ... 111 Chico •.... .. ...•....• Butte.
Chino Valley •.. .. . 427 Chino ... . .... . ...... San Bernardino.
Claiborne , .•....•.. 185 Point Arena . . ....•• :Mendocino.
Claremont ... , ..... 436 Claremont . .. . . • . . . , . Los Angeles.
Clay .....•........ 101 Dutch Flat ........... Placer.
Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake . . ..... , .Lake.
Clinton •.•... , ....• 119 Igo •.••............• .Shasta.
Clovis ... .. ... . . . . . 417 Clovis •..... .. . .. . •. . Fresno.
Coachella ...... . ... 476 Coachella . ..... . .. .. . Riverside.
Coalinga •.. , ••....• 387 Coalinga ..... . . , ..... Tulare.
Concord .. . .••. • . . . 117 Sacramento .....• , ... Sacramento.
Confidence .....•... 203 Castroville ........•. Monterey,
Consuelo •..•.. , ... 325 Escondido , .. , , , .. , , .San Diego.
Corcoran .......... .490 Corcoran ..... . ...... Kings.
Colusa •........... 240 Colusa , .............. Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . • • . • • 9 Marysville .•....•.. , •Yuba.
Corona •..•........ 324 Pasadena , ..•..... , .. Los Angeles.
Coronado .... .. .... 441 Coronado .. .. ... .. .. . San Diego.
Covelo •........•.. 231 Covelo ••...•......•. ,Mendocino.
Covina ..•.... . , ... 334 Covina •...•.. , .. , , , .Los Angeles.
Clarence F. Smith ... 482 Los Angeles . ..... . .. Los Angeles.
Crescent .. , .• , ...•. 4'5 Crescent City ...... , .Del Norte.

•

352
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

Crocker ............. 454 Daly City ........•.. .San Mateo.
Crockett ......... • . 139 San Francisco ..•...• 'San Francisco.
Culver City .. .. . .... 467 Culver City ...........Los Angeles.
Curtis ..••.....•... 140 Cloverdale .......•. • . Sonoma.
Chowchilla . '. ....... 485 Chowchilla .......... Riverside.
Delano ........•... 309 Delano •............. Kern.
Delta ... .. .. .... ... 471Stockton ............ San Joaquin.
Dinuba ...........• 385 Dinuba .....•....••• . Tulare.
Doric .......•..•.. 216 San Francisco ...•..•. San Francisco.
Downey •. . ...•.... 220 Downey . .. ...•...... Los Angeles.
Drytown •...• •.... 174 Plymouth ......... ·..• Amador.
·Dunsmuir •..•..... 297 Dunsmuir ..........•. Siskiyou.
Durant ...........• 268 Berkeley •........•.. Alameda.
Eagle Roci< ......... 422 Eagle Rock .......... Los Angeles.
East Bay .. .... .... 489 South Berkeley .... . . Alameda.
East Belt .......... 391 Tuolumne •.......•.. Tuolumne.
East Gate ...•...•. 290 Los Angeles .....•.•. Los Angele1.
Eden •..•. •.... .... 113 San Leandro .....•.•• Alameda.
Eel River •......•.. 147 Fortuna ..•..•...••.. Humboldt.
El Centro ...•....... 384 El Centro ......•.•... Imperial.
Elk Grove .. ·.....•. 173 Elk Grove .....••.... Sacramento.
Elsinore •.......•.. 289 Elsinore ...........•. Riverside.
Elysian ... . ........ 418 Los Angeles .. .. . . .. .. Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs •.....•.......~Butte.
Enterprise .......•• 70 Yuba City ..•...•.••. Sutter.
Eucalyptus ........ 243 Haywards •.....•.... Alameda.
I<::ureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn .••......•..• Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ....••...•. Siskiyou.
Evergreen .......•. 259 Riverside ........•.•. Riverside.
Excelsior ..... . .•.. 166 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
~xeter ............ 424 Exeter .............. Tulare.
Fairmount . .... ... . 435 San Francisco . ...... l::lan Francisco.
Fallbrook ........• 317 Fallbruok ••....••.•• San Diego.
Fellowship . . .. . . . • .480 Oakland ..... ....... . Alameda.
Ferndale ........•. 193 Oakland .....•....... Uumboldt.
Fidelity .•.... .• ..• 120 San Francisco ........ San Franciscu.
Fillmore ••••....... 379 Fillmore •..•..••...•• Ventura.
Forbestown •....... ·50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest . . . . . . . . . . . • . 66 Allegheny •........• ."Sierra.
Fort Bragg .. : ..••. 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Franklin •........• 143 Courtland ........... .Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ...San Mateo.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Fresno ............ 24 7 ~res no ...............Fresno.
Friendship .....•... 210 San Jose , ........... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .......... 336 Oakland .•...• . .•.•• Alameda.
Fullerton •.. , ..•.... 339 Fullerton •• . ......... Orange.
GaU ............... 267 Galt •...••..•..••.•• Sacramento.
Gardena ..... ••... 372 Gardena ..••......•.. Los Angele1.
Garvanza ......... .492 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Georgetown •....... 25 Georgetown •......... El Dorado.
Glendora .......... 404 Glendora .•.......•.. Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ....... 30 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden Rule .. .. . , .. ~79 San Jose ..... ....... Santa Clara.
Golden· West •. ...... 455 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Golden State •..... 3.38 Los Angeles •.......• .Los Angeles.
Gold Hill ....... .• . 32 Lincoln •.••. , ........ Placer.
Grafton ........ ... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
Gravel Range ...•.. 59 Camptonville .....•.. Yuba.
Guadalupe .. ...•. .. 237 Guadalupe ..••.....•. Santa Barbara.
Hammonton ... .. . .. 433 Hammonton ......... Yuba.
Hanford ..... • .•.. 279 Hanford ..•. ......• .. Kings.
Harmony .. . ..• . ... 164 Sierra City • . ........ Sierra.
Hartley •.......•.. 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian ... ... ••.• 21 Honolulu .•.•........ Hawaiian Ter.
Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek •.... . ... Amador.
Hermann .. ....•• . .127 San Francisco ........ Ss,n Francisco.
Hesperian ..... . ... 264 Santa Maria ........•Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..... 382 Los Angeles .•........ Los Angeles.
Hill 's Ferry • .. . . .. 236 Newman · •...........•Stanislaus.
Hiram • . • • . • . . . . . • . 43 El Dorado .•......... El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme .. ... 458 Los Angeles ... : ......Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles •........ .Los Angeles.
Hollywood r •. • ••• • 355 Hollywood ••....•.... Los Angeles.
Holtville ..... . ..... 425 Holtville • ......•..•. Imperial.
Honolulu .. ...... . .409 Honolulu . .. ......... Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .... .. . . . ...•. 234 Beckwith •.. . .... .... Plumas.
Hornitos •......... . 98 Hornitos •... . ........ Mariposa.
Howard . . . . . . . . . . • 96 Yreka ..•. ..•. ....... Siskiyou.
Humboldt •.. , ..... 79 Eureka ............. Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ••••Orange.
Illinoistown • • . . . . • . 51 Colfax ......•...... . Placer.
Imperial ........ •.. 390 Imperial° ........•..•.Imperial.
Inglewood ..... .. ... 421 Inglewood .. .. ..••... Los Angeles.
Inyo ... ......•.•. , 221 Independence • .. ..... Inyo.
Ione ... ......... .• 80 Ione •..... •......... Amador.

353

354

ALPHABETICAL LIST OI•' LODGES

County. •
Lodge.
No.· Post Office.
Jefferson . . . . . . . . • • 97 Laporte "'. : . . ....... Plumas.
Janesville ... . ... ... 232 Lassen . . . ... .. ... .. Lassen.
Jewel ....... . ..... 374 San Francisco ... . . . .. San Francisco.
Keith .... ... . . .. .• 187 Gilroy ... .. ...... ... .. Santa Clara.
Kennett . .... , . . .. .456 Kennett .. . . .... . .... Shasta.
Kerman ... ..... . . .. 420 Kerman ·.. . .... . ... .. Fresno.
Keystone .... , ... .. 161 Milton ... . . . .... . .. , Calaveras.
Kilauea . .. ..... . .. 330 Hilo ; ........ . .... . . Hawaiian Ter.
King David 's ... ... 209 San Luis .Obispo . . . . . San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco ... . ... .San Francisco.
La Fayette .. .. .. , .126 Sebastopol ... . ....... Sonoma.
La Mesa .. .. .... ... 407 La Mesa . • . ... . .... .. San Diego.
Lancaster . , . . .. .. .. .437 Lancaster . .... . ... .. Los Angeles.
Landmark .... .... 253 Esparto ... . . . . . . . ....Yolo.
La Puente ...... ... 446 Puente ..... . . . ...... . Los Angeles.
Laa Palma& .. . • .. . • 366 Fresno • . .... . : .•. .. •.Fi:esno.
Lassen . . . . .... ....• 149 Susanville . . ..... . .. . Lassen.
Laurel . . .. . ....... 245 Willows .. . .. . .. . .. ...Glenn.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie .. , .... , 371 Honolulu ... , .. .... • Jiawaiian Ter.
Lexington .. .. ....• 104 El Monte ..... . .. . . .. Los Angeles.
Libertas " ... . , .. ... 466 Bakersfield . .•... ....Kern.
Liberty ..... , . ..... 299 Santa Clara .... . . .. .. Santa Clara.
Lincoln ...... .. .... 470San Francisco . ... .. . San Francisco.
Lindsay ... . .. . . . .. 416 Lindsay ...... .. . . ... Tulare.
·Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland .. . ...... "' ... Alameda.
Lodi .. . . . . . . .. . . .. 256 Lodi •. , ... .. . . . . .. •. San Joaquin.
Lompoc . . ... , . . ... 262 Lompoc .. . .... . . ... ..Santa Barbara.
Long Beach .. ... ... 327 Long Beach ... . . . ....Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . , . . . . • 42 Los Angeles . .. . . • . . . Los Angeles.
Los Banos ... .. .... 312 Los Banos ...... •• ... Merced.
Los Gatos .. . . ..... 292 Los Gatos ....... . ... Santa Clara.
Loyalton ... , . ...•. 359 Loyalton .•... . . • .•.• Sierra.
Madera ...... . ..... 280 Madera ......... .. .•. Madera.
Madison ....... . ..• 23 Grass Valley •... . ..•. Nevada.
Magnolia .. . . , ..... 242 Santa Barbara . ... ... Santa Barbara.
Maricopa .. .. ..... .434 Maricopa ... . . ... ... Kern. ·
Marin .. . .... .• •..• 191 San Rafael .........• Marin.
Mariposa .... . ....• 24 Mariposa .. ... .•• ... . Mariposa.
Martinez .. .. .. ..... 41 Martinez ·...• . .. • .... Contra Costa.
Maui .. ·" .. . , ... ... 472Maui, Kahului . . . • ... Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell ... . , ... .. . . 288 Maxwell · . .' ...• , .....• Colusa.
Mccloud .. ... ...... 430 McCloud .. .. .••...... Siskiyou.

GRAND LODGE ·OF CALIF-ORNIA
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
· County,
McKinley . , ...... , .347 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Mendocino .. , ....•. 179 Mendocino ........•. Mendocino.
Midway .. .. . ... .... 426 Taft ... . . . ... . .... . . Kern.
Mill Valley ... . .... 356 Mill Valley .. . ........ Marin.
Mission .... . .. . .... 169 San Francisco . . . . ... . San Francisco.
Mizpah ..... . .. . ... 378 Los Angeles ..... . .. ,Los Angeles.
Molino ............. 150 Tehama ............. Tehama.
Mone ta , .......... .405 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Montebello ........ 451 Montebello ........ • . Los Angeles ..
Monrovia ......... 308 Monrovia ............ Los Angeles.
Monterey •........• 217 Monterey •........... Monterey.
Morgan HiIL .. . .... 463 Morgan Hill. ......... Santa Clara.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton •........... San Joaquin . .
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore •.......... Alameda.
Mount Davidson , . . .481 .San Francisco ... . .... San Francisco.
Mount Diablo . . . •.. '!48 Concord .... . ..... . .. Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson .. ... 295 Guerneville . .. .. ~ . . .. Sonoma.
Mount Moriah . . ... 44 San Francisco .... . .. . San Francis.co.
Mount Oso ...... . .460 Tracy .............•. San Joaquin.
Mountain Shade ... 18 Downieville .......... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson .. , ......... Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...••. Santa Clara.
Natoma ...•....... 64 Folsom •.......•...•. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 .Vallejo .............. Solano.
Needles • ..........• 326 Needles •...........• San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City • ......•• Nevada.
Newville • •... . ..• . 205 Paskenta . . ..• . • • .• •.Tehama.
Nicolaus .... .... : .129 Wheatland . • ........•Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley .. , .........• Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell ........ ,Modoc.
Northern Light . .... 190 Millville ..........••• Shasta.
North Star •......• 91 Fort Jones , ........•. Siskiyou.
Norwalk •......... 315 Norwalk ...........• .Los Angele1.
Oakdale .•......... 275 Oakdale ........•.... Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ......... 215 Alameda ............. Alameda.
Oakland , .........• 188 Oakland ......•... . .• Alameda.
Occidental ........• 22 San Francisco . . ...... San Franci1co.
Ocean Park .... . .. 369 Oceanpark .. .. . .. . . ... Los Angeles.
Oceanside •.. . .. . ... 381 Oceanside ..........• San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 Tulare. ...... . ....... Tulare.
Olivet ••.......... • 364 Corning .. . .........• Tehama.
Ontario .....•..... 301 Ontario ....•..••.•• •San Bernardino.
Ophir ........... • • 33 Murphy's , ... ~ : ...•.• Calaveras.

355

356

ALPHABETICAL LI:;lT, OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange .............. Orange.
Oriental . .. ........ 144 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Orland •........... 265 Orland .... . ........ . Glenn.
Orosi ... . .... : . ... 383 Orosi ................ Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
Pacific •........... 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove ........•Monterey.
Pajaro ............. 110 Watsonville .........•Santa Cruz.
Palestine .......... 351 Los Angeles .......... Los Angele1.
Palmyra .......... 26 Placerville ..........• El Dorado.
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto ............ Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes •...... 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union . . . . 17 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Park .............. 449 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena .•.......... Los Angeles.
Paso Rt;1bles ........ 286 Paso Robles .......... San Luis Obispo.
Patterson .......... 488 Patterson ...... .. .... Stanislaus.
Paul Revere ....... 462 Sa·n Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Penrhyn .'. ......... 258 Penryn •............. Piacer.
Pentalpha ......... 202 Los Angeles ........• Los Angeles.
Perris ............ .411 Perris ............... Riverside.
Petaluma .......... 180 Petaluma ............. Sonoma.
Phoenix .•......... 178 San Bernardino . . . . . San Bernardino.
Pinole ............. 353 Pinole .......•....... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg . . ....... .429 Pittsburg ....... . .... Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . • 60 Quincy ........ , ....• Plumas.
Pomona .......... ,246 Pomona ............• Los Angele1.
Porterville ....•.... 303 Porterville . . . . . • . . . . Tulare.
Presidio ........•.. 354 San Francisco ......•. San Francisco.
Ramona .......... .457 Alhambra .........•.. Loa Angeles.
Reading •.......... 254 Redding ......•...... Shasta.
Redland1 ...•...... 300 Redlands ............• San Bernardino,
Redondo .......•... 328 Redondo •...... • ..... Los Angele1.
Redwood City •..... 168 Redwood City .....•.. San Mateo.
Reedley •..•..••... 304 Reedley •....•....... Fresno.
Richmond .•.....•. 375 San Francisco •...... San Francisco.
Rio Vista •••....... 208 Rio Vista •..•........ Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angelee.
Riverbank ......... 459 Riverbank ..... • ...•. Stanislaus.
Rockridge ........ .468 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Rose's Bar ......... 89 Smartsville ...........Yuba.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
County.
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
Roseville ...... . ... 222 Roseville ............. Placer.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ..... .. ...... Sonoma.
Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ........•.. Napa.
Saint John's •.....• 37 Yreka •........-.....•Siskiyou. .
Salinas ............ 204 Salinas .............. Monterey.
6an Benito ......... 211 Hollister ..........•.. San Benito.
San Buenavent~ra ... 214 Ventura .............. Ventura.
San Diego ..... .•• , 35 San Diego ......•.... San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas ..... . ..... Los Angeles.
Sanger .......... '. .316 Sanger .............. Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino ...... San Bernardino.
Sa:n Fernando . . .... 343 Fernando ......•..... Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
San Jacinto • .... ... 338 San Jacinto ......... Riverside.
San Joaquin ....... 19 Stockton ............. San Joaquin.
San Jose ..........• 10 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo ........... San Mateo.
San Miguel ....... 285 San Miguel .......•.. San Luis Obispo.
San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
San Pedro •. ..... .. 332 San Pedro •.......... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana : •....... 241 Santa An'\ ........... Orange.
Santa Barbara ..... 192 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..... . ... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ....... 302 Kings City ......... Monterey.
Santa Monica ..•... 307 Santa Monica ......•. Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ....... 291 Santa Paula ........• Ventura.
Santa Rosa .....•.. 57 Santa Rosa ...•...... Sonoma.
San Simeon •...... 196 Cambria ..........•.. San Luis Obispo.
Schofield .......... 443 Schofield Barracks .... Hawaiian Ter.
Selma •••.......... 277 Selma ............••. Fresno.
Sequoia ..•......... 349 Oakland ............• Alameda.
Sierra Madre .....•. 408 Sierra Madre .. ... .... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ...... 184 Sierra ville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ...••.... 201 Dixon .............• . Solano.
Silver Gate ...•.... 296 San Diego ........••. San Diego.
Silver Trowel. . .. : .. 415 Los Angeles ...... . ..• Los Angeles.
Sincerity ..... , .... 132 Green ville . . . . . . . . . • Plumas.
Sisson .••... ..... .. 310 Sisson ............•.. Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .. • . 271 Stony Ford •......... Colusa.
Solano .... . ....... 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome .••..•..•. 123 Healdsburg • . • . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern Californie..278 Los Angeles .......•. .Los Angeles.

357

358

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........•Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 367 South Pasadena ...... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
South VVest ........ 283 National City ........ San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco .... .' ... San Francisco.
Standard .. . .. : .... 440 Oakland ............ Alameda.
Stanislaus ......... 206 Modesto •.........•.. Stanislaus.
Starr King . . ...... 344 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
SuisU'.n . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Saisun •........ . .... Solano.
Summit •.......... 112 Knights Ferry ....... Stanislaus.
Sunset ... : . :-. ...... 352 Los Angeles ... , . .... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .... 235 Cedarville ........ ·... Modoc.
Table Mountain .... 124 Cherokee •........... Butte.
Tehachapi .. . .. . ... 313 Tehachapi •.....•.... Kern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Temescal . .. ....... 314 Corona •............. Riverside.
Temblor ........... 477 Fellows .......... . ... Kern.
Temple • . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma ........ . .... Sonoma.
Texas ............. 46 San Juan ........... San Benito.
Thousand Oaks . .... 478 Berkeley .. .. ,.. ....•. Alameda.
Torrance .. ~ ...... . 447 Torrance ............. Los Angeles.
Traver ............ 294 Kingsburg .......... Fresno.
Trinity . . .. . .. ·..... 27 VVeaverville .......... Trinity.
Truckee - ........... 200 Truckee ........ . ... Nevada.
Tuolumne .. . ....... · 8 Sonora .•............ Tuolumne.
Turlock ......... , .. 395 Turlock ............. Stanislaus.
Tuscan ............ 261 VVilliams •.. • .. •. .. .. Colusa.
Tyrian ............ 439 Manteca ............ San Joaquin. Union ....... .. •.... 58 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Unity ............. 3g8 Glendale ............ Los Angeles.
University ......... 394 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Upland ....... . ..... 419 Upland ....... .... ... San Bernardino.
Vacaville • . •... . .• • 134 Vacaville ..........•. Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles ......... ,Los Angeles.
Vallejo . ..... ...... 487 Vallejo .........•. • .• f.lolano.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Van Nuys ..... .... ·.450 Va~ Nuys .... . ...... Los Angeles.
Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Red Bluff ............ Tehama.
Veteran •. . . .... . . . 373 Sawtelle ....... . ..... Los Angeles. .
Victory .. . .. .... ... .474 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Visalia ............. 128 Visalia ..... : . .. . .... Tulare.
Vitruvius .. . ....... 145 Bloomfield .........•. Sono:ina•.
Volcano •.. ; . . . . . •. . 56 Volcano . • .. , .......• Amador.

No.

Post Office

County

Washington •....... 20 Sacramento ......•.•. Sacramento.
Waucoba .......... 413 Big Pine ............. Inyo.
Welcome ••........ 255 Lemoore .....•...... Kings.
Western Star . .. . .. 2 Shasta .............. ::!hasta.
W.est Gate •........ 335 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Whittier •.......... 323 VVhittie• .......... ~ •. Los Angeles.
Willits ••........... 365 VVillits . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mendocino.
Wilmington .... . .. . 198 VVilmington •........ . Los Angeles.
Wilshire ... ... ..... 445 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ....... 287 Bishop ........•... .. Inyo.
Woodbridge . ... .... 131 VVoodbridge ........ . San Joaquin.
Woodland •.. , ...... 156 VVoodland •.......... Yolo.
Woodstock ........ .491 Alamed~ ........ ... . Alameda.
Yerba Buena ....... 403 Oakland .. . ...... , ... Alameda.
Yolo • : ............. 81 Yolo •..•.. . ..•...... Yolo.
Yorba Linda ...... .469 Yorba Linda ... ..... Orange.
York .............. 423 VVatts .·.............. Los Angeles.
Yosemite .... .. .... 99 Merced ............. Merced.
Yount ........ ·..... 12 Napa ................ Napa.

359

360

LOCATION OF LODGES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

Post Office.

Alphabetically Arranged

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Adin •..................• Adin ... .. .................• 250
Alhambra .....••....••.• Alhambra ..... .. ....... . ..• 322
Alhambra ... . ... . ... .... Ramona ...... .. ...........• 457
Alameda ..........••...• Oak Grove ..... .. ..... .... .. 215
''
.............. . Apollo . ................ . ... . 896
Alameda . ........... .. ..• Woodstock ..........•. ...... 491
All~ghany ..... .. .•. • ..•• Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Alturas .... .. ...•.•...•• Al£~ras .•....•........ .. ... Z48
Anaheim ..........••••.•Anaheim ..•........... . . . .. 207
Anderson .........•••.••• Mount Shasta ..• . ........... 281
Angels Camp .......••..• Bear Mountain • . ........ . .• 76
Antioch . ..... ••. ...•• •. •Antioch •..... ...•.. ... .... . 175
Arroyo Grande •.•.....•.• Arroyo ..................... 274
Auburn ......•..•..••...• Eureka . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Arbuckle ........•......• Arbuckle .. ........ . .. .. . . .. 182
Arcata ...........••••.•• Arcata •...................• 106
Artesia ...........••••..• Artesia ..................... 377
Atascadero .. ·- .. .. .. . .• • •Atascadero .... ........... .. 493
Azusa .........•.•...•.•• Azusa .. .•. ..... • ........... 305
Bakersfield ....•...••. .•• .Bakersfield ..... ·.. ... . ....•. 224
Baker.8field ........•...•• Libertas . ................. .466
Bakersfield .. .. ..... •.. .•• Caledonia ..... .. . . .... .. .... 486
Beckwith ............••.• Hope .. ..... . . ...... •.. ..... 234
Bell ..................... Bell .......... . . ... ......... 483
Benicia .......•..••••..••Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 5
Berkeley ...•...••••.•..• Durant •............. . .....• 268
Berkeley .. . ...•...•.•.•• Berkeley ••................. 363
Berkeley ................ .'rhousand Oaks ....... . . . . . .. 478
• Berkeley . ... .. .........• Charter Rock .. . ......... ... 410
Big Pine . ... . ..........• Waucoba ................ . .. 413
Biggs •...........•.••.•• Emmanuel ..... .. ........... 318
Bishop ..........••••••.•Winnedumah ..•............ 287
Bloomfield .....•....••.•• Vitruvius •.••.............• 145
Blythe . . . .. .......... . . . Blythe ....... . ...... . . . . . . . 473
Brawley .......•••••.••••Brawley •.•....... .. ... .. .. .402
Brentwood •.....••••••••• Brentwood .•..•....•. ... ... 345
Bridgeport ••.. • ••.•••••••Alta .••..•..•......•.. .. . .. 333
Buena Park ...•••••.••••• Buena Park ••........ . ..... 357

Lodge.

361'
No.

Burbank ........ ..... .... Burbank .......... . ......... 406
Burlingame ... . .........• Burlingame .. ........ . .. .. . . 400
Calexico ... .. ..... .. ..... Calexico .. . . ...... ... ....... 412
Calistoga •..•.•..•••••••• Calistoga .............. ..... 233
Cambria ..•. •.. •••••••••• San Simeon ... . ............• 196
Campbell •• .. ...•• •• .•.•• Charity ............. . ...... 362
Camptonville ... . ......•• Gravel Range ............ . .• 59
Carpinteria ...... . ...... .Carpinteria ... ..... .. ... .. .. 444
Castroville •..•.•••.•••.•• confidence .....•....... . ....203
Cedarville ...•••••••••••• surprise Valley •..... . ...... 235
Centerville ... • .•••••••• ··Alameda .. ...... . . ......... 167
Cherokee ••..••• • •••••••• Table Mountain ........... . 124
Chico ..... . ..............Chico ..•...•....... ... ..... 111
Chino .. ..• . .•.••••• .•• •••Chino Valley ......... ·..... . . 427
Chowchilla .............• Chowchilla .. : .. .. ...... .. .. 485
Claremont . . .. . ........ . . Claremont .................. 436
Cloverdale .. ••• .•••.••••. Curtis .. . .... .....• .... . .. . . 140
Clovis .. .. ... .•. . ........ Clovis . ...... . ............ .. 417
Coachella . . . ......... . .. Coachella ........... . .. . . ... 476
Coalinga .. . .. •. ..• •...• .• Coalinga • •... ..... •.. : ..... 387
Colfax ••...•....•..••••• .Illinoistown . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 51
Corcoran •... . ....•.....• Corcoran ....... . .. . . . . . .. .. 490
Corona .......•.••• ••• ••• Temescal ... . ............... 314
Courtland •..•..•••..•••••Franklin •......... .. ... . , . . 143
Covelo .......•..••.•••••• Covelo . . ........... .. ... ....231
Colusa •......••.•.•••••• ,Colusa • . . . . ................. 240
Colton .•.•.••..•••..•••••Ashlar .....• ...... ........ ..306
Covina .. ...... . ..........Covina .. • .. ... .... ... . . .. . . 334
Compton ..• ; .............Anchor .............. . ......273
Concord .. .. ............. ,Mt. Diablo ......... .. ..... .448
Corning .••. • ..•••••••••• Olivet •..•.. . .....•.. ....... 364
Coronado .....•......••. . Coronado ................ , .. 441
Crescent City ••.•.••••••• Crescent ............ . . . ...• 45
Crockett •••••...••.• • •• .,Carqulnez • .... ....•..•... •. . 337
Culver City .. ... . .... ...•Culver City ...... .. . .. . .... 467
Daly City •..........•.. :Crocker ..... , . . ...... . . . ... 454
Davis .... . •......•• • .... Athens ...•.•. .. ...•••..... . 22B
Delano ••.•.•••.••••••••• Delano .. . ..•..... • ... . ..... 309
Dinuba ... • .••.•••••••••• Dinuba ....•....... .. . .. .... 385
Dixon .......•..•••••••••Sllveyville . •.••••. . .......... 201
Downey ....••••••••••.•• Downey •...• .. ............. 220
Downieville .... •. ..... •• ,Mountain Shade • •.. . . . .. ... 18
Dutch Flat •.•.•••••••••• Clay .••.•• .• ••.••. . .........101

GRA NJ,) L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES ·

362
Post Otnce.

Lodge.

No.

Dunsmuir • .............. .Dunsmuir ....... . •.•. . . . ' . .. 297
Eagle Rock , . .. ........ . .. Eagle Rock ••.••.•.••.. • .... 422
Elk Grov.e • . .. . . .• .. . ... . Elk Grove .... , .•..•... • .. . . 173
Elsinore • ; .......... . ..•. Elsinore . , ............ .. . .. ... 289
El Qentro ............... El Centro •..••••.•• • . •.. • . . • . 384
El Dorado . . ... . . .• .•..... Hiram . . • . . . • . • • . . . . • . . . . . . 43
El Monte . . . . .••..•...•.. Lexington ..•..•.••.... . ..• . 104
Esconnido . .......•..•... Consuelo •.....••.•. ••. .. .. . 325
Esparto . .. .. .. , ..... ... . La ndmark . ... . . . . .. . .. . .. . 253·
Etna Mills . . . . ... . ...... Evening Star • .. ..• . . . .. . . .. 186
Eureka . . ... . .....•.•.• •.•. Humboldt • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Exeter .. . ........ • . •.... . Exeter , . , . .. . . . ... . . .... . , . 424
Fallbrook ......•. • .••.•. Fallbrook .....••.•... . .... , . 317
F ellows . ~ ...... .. . . ... . . Texnblor ........... . ... .... .477
Fernando ........ ·..•...•. San Fernando • ...•....... . .. 343
Ferndale • ......•. • .•... . Ferndale • ; ...•..•..•..... . ..193
Fillmore ............. • . . . Fillmore •.. • ..•....... ... • ..379
Forbestown . ..........•. . Forbestown . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . • 50
Folsom ... . ..... •. . .. .•. . Nat oma ..... ·• .•.• • . ..... . .. 64
Fort Bidwell •.. .• . . .. • ... North East ...•.. . . . '. .. . .. . . 266
Fort Bragg .....• • . . .... . Fort Bragg • ...• . ... .... .. . . 361
Fort Jones .. . ...•.•..... . North Star ....•.•..-. . . . .. . • 91
Fortuna .. .. ....·. .. . .... . Eel River ............. . . . . . . 147
Fresno . . .........• •• , . . . Fresno .......•...•.. . . . . ... 24 7
''
. .. ..... .. . .. ... , , Las Palmas . . ... _. . ... . . . . . . . 366.
''
. . . . . . . ·. ... ~ . .. . ' .c~n t.er . . . . ... . . .. .. . . . .. .. . 465
Fullerton . . ... .. • . . . .••. . Fullerton . ........ ... . . .. . .. 339
Oalt . . . .. ..• . . .. ..• . . . .. ..Galt .... .. .. .•........ . . . .. .267
GardenA . . .. . . . ... . . . .. . Garil Pna .. . . . . • ... : .. .. . . . . . 372
Georgetown . .......•... .. Georgetown . . • . . . . . . . . . . ... . . 25
Gilroy .. .... ........ ·•.. ·. . Keith .. . .... .. . . ..... .. . .. .. 187
Glendale ... . • ..••.•.•. . •. Unity ......•..•.••. • . .. . . .. 368
Glendora . . . .....••.• • ••. Glendora •.. . ..•...• .. .. ~· . . 404
Grafton .....•...• •••.••. Grafton . .. • •.•..• •. .. . ... . . 14~
Grass Valley ...• . ; . • •.... Madison - · . ..•.... .. .... . . .. 23
Gr.eenville •. .... • •.•.••.. Sincerity ....•.. .• . . • ..... . . 132
Gridley •... .... • • . .•• .• . . North Butte • . . •• ..... . .. .. . 230
Gu.a dalupe •..•..•.••.•. •• •Guadalupe ....••.. • ..•. .. . . . 237
Guerneville ... . ...... . ··-·.Mount Jackson • .. . ... . ...... 295
Hammonton ... .. ...... . . Hammonton . . . .. .. ... . . .. . . .433
Hanford ..... • ... •.: .•• • ..Hanford • ••. . .•. •• .• •..... . . 279
Haywards ... . ..•••...••. Eucalyptus •.•••.• • .. , .. .. . . 243
Healdsburg •....•... •• .• •Sotoyome ·•..•..•.•.... .. . . ..123

P oet Otnce.

Lodg e.

.363
. No.

Hilo, T. H . . . ... . . .. . ... . K ilauea • . .. . .. . . ... . . . . . . . .. 330
Hornitos • • • . ... . .• . • •... . Hornitos •... , . ... •. .' ,' ... . . . 98
Hollist er ............ . . •.. San Benito .. . ..... . .. .. . . .. 211
Hollywood • .• .. • ••. • •. . . . Hollywood • .. ... •. .. . . : . . . . . 355
HoltTille ..... . . . . •• . • • ... Holtville • .. . . . ..... .. .... . . 425
Honolulu, T .• H . ... . .. . ... Hawaiian •. , , ..••...... . .. . 21
Honolulu, T. H .. .. . . ..... .le Progres de l 'Ocea nie .. . . . . 371
Honolulu, T. H ... . . . . .. . . llonolulu .. .. . . .... .... . . . .. 409
Huntington Beach , .. • . • .. Hunt ington Beach ••.• ..•• , . . 380
· Huntington Park ...... . . . . Rising Light .. .' .. .. .. . .. .. . . 397
Igo •• ••... • .•• • .... . . . . . • Clint on .. .. . ..... .. ... .' .. . . . 119
Imperial .. . . . .. . .... .. . . . I mperial •.. .. .. .... . . .. . .. . . 390
Independence •.••••••••.. layo , ..•• , . . .... , .. , .• . . . ... 221
Inglewood ... . ........ , ... Inglewood •.. . .. . . .. .... ... ~ 421
Ione' .. • ..•......... •.•.. . . Ione . . •.. • ... . ... .. . .'... . .. 80
Jackson · ... . ...••..••.. .. Amador .• • .. . ..... . .. .... ... 65
Kahului, T. H . ..... ... ... .. Maui . ... . ... . : . .. . . .... . . . 472
Kennett .... .. .. . . . .• . ... Kennett . : . .. ..... . ... . . . .. .456
K erman ... .. . . • .• • • •• .. . . Kerman . .. ..... . . . ... .. . ... 420
K ingsburg .• •• ·.•• •..•• ••• Traver •..• ... . . .. . .. ... . ... 294
K ings City .. .. . . .. . ....... Sant a Lucia . . . • ... ... ... . . . 302
K nights Ferry •••..•••••• Summit •... . .. . . , • , .. . .. . . .. 112
Lakeport ..•..•.. , •• , • .•• Hartley , .. . ........ .. .. .. . . 199
La Mesa . . ...•.... . . .... Le. Mesa ..... . .. .. . . . .. . . . . .407
Lancaste ~ . .............. .Lancast er . ..... .. . . . . .. . .. . 437
Laporte ....... . .. . • •.. • •Jefferson ..... , . .. . . ..· .. . . . . 97
Lassen ... . ....... .. . . . .. Janesville , . .... , . . . ..... . .. 232
Lemoore . . .• . . ...•... • · •• W elcome •......... . . ...... . 255
Lincoln .. . . . .. • • • . . •• . .• •Gold Hill , . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • 32
L inden .• . . .•. •• .• . ... ••• Valley • . .. . . . .. , •.• ....... . 135
Lindsay .. ... ... ... .. .. . . L indsay , .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .416
Livermore .. . ...•.. ..•.. . Mottaic , .. , . . . , ... .... .. .. 218
Lodi •.. • . . .. . •....... . . .. Lodi •. • , ........ ... ... .. . . 256
Lompoc ..•..... . ......•.• Lompoc , , • . . . , . , .. . . .. . . . .. 262
Lower Lake . ...• • . • ..... Clear Lake ...... , . ... . . . .. . .183
~ong Bea ch . . .......•.•.• Long Beach •.. . ..• ......... . 327
"
. .• ...•..•. : .. P alos Verdes ......•. .. . • . . . . 389
Los Angeles , .....•... •• .• Los Angeles .. . .. , . . . . . . . . . • 42
"
.... . ..... . .. .Wilmington . .... ....... ... . . . 198
''
.... . ... .... .- .Pentalpba .. . . .. ...... . . .. .·.202
.......... . .. . Southern Califo rnia . ... .. ·.. . 278
''
''
..••.••••• •• •• East Gate • ......•. ..... . ..·. 290
•...••• • ••• • , . Hollenbeck .. . ..... . .. • . . .. . 319
"

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles.
South Gate ................. 320
••
•..•..•.•••••• Vallee de France ............329
••
..••.....•.••• West Gate ....•............. 335
••
.. . .....••.•.• Palestine •..•. . ... ... .. .. ... 351
''
.........•...• Sunset . ....••.. .... . .... ... 352
••
...........•.. Golden State ...... .•.: . ... ... 358
''
• ........•..•. Mizpah ................ ... ..378
••
..........•... Highland Park .............. 382
........... : .West Lake ............. . .. . . 392
.............. University ....... . . ... .... . . 394
. ............. Moneta ........ . ... . . ... . .. .405
. . . ... ... ..... Arlington •..•...... . . . .. . .. 414
.. ....... .. . .. Silver Trowel. ... . .. ....... . 415
"'
.............. Elysian ............... ..... . 418
..........•.. 1Acacia . : ...... .... ... ... . . ; 4!~
"
"
.............. Wilshire ....... ............ . 4 o
"
. . .. ........ '..Van N uys .. . .... .. . .... . . . . 450.
''
.. . . ......•. .. Henry S. Orme .. . . . .... .. . .458
"
...... ... ...... America ... .. .. ... ... . . . .... 475
... .. .. ....... Clarence F. Smith .. . .. .. .. .. 482
"
"
.... .......... Albert Pike .... .. .... .... .. 484
''
.............• Garvanza .............. . ... 492
Los Banos . . ...••••.••••• Los Banos .......•. . . ... · · · · 312
Los Gatos ....•.•..•.•..•• Los Gatos .......... ... . · · · .292
Loyalton •........•....•.•Loyalton ........... .. · · · · · · 35!l
Manteca ...............• Ty rian ........ ~ . . ..... · · · · .439
Maricopa . . . .. . ......... Maricopa .. ... ... . . .... ·. · . 434
Marysville . ... ...•••..••• Corinthian . . . . . . .... · · · · · · · • 9
Maxwell •. ... ••••...•••••)Iaxwell •...... ... .... · · · · · · 288
Madera ............••••••Madera ...... .. . . . . . .. .. · . .. 280
Mariposa ...•.....••.•.. ,Mariposa ................ . .. 24
Ma~tinez ...........•••. ,,:Martinez ............ . •...... 41
Mc Cloud ........•..•...• M cCloud ....... . .... . . . . . . .430
Merced •.........••••• , • ,Yosemite ... .. . .. .. . ... .. .. . 99
Mendocino
Mendocino . . . ... · . · · · · · · · · • H'9
Middletown . ......•..•.. "callayomi . . .... . . . · · · · · · · · .282
Milton
.. ' ...•••.•. "Keystone •......... . . .... ..• 161
r

365

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

364

............

..

Mill vai1~~ '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.':Mm Valley .......... ... .... 356
Millville ................. Northern Light .......... . · .190
Monrrivia •.. . •..•...•..•• Monrovia •..... . ... . ..... . .. 308
Mom.ibello . . ... . ........ Montebello .. .. ....... . .... . 451
Monterey .....•.•..•••. , .Monterey .•. ... ... ... .... . .. 217
Morgan Hill . .... .. ... '. .. Morgan Hill . .. ... ... . ... . .. 463

Po•t Office.

Lodge.

No

Mountain View •••. , • , ••• ,Mountain View .•.. .. . . . ....194
Modesto •.•....•••• • ••••• Stanislaus • ....... ..... . ... . 206
Murphy's •..•••••. • •••••• Ophir ••......... . .... . . .... 38
National City ............ South West ... . ............. 283
Napa ••.......•••••••••••Yount .•...•.............. . . 12
Newman .................Hill's Ferry ....•........ . .. 236
Needles •...••••.••.•.•••• Needles ......... '. .......... 326
Nevada City ••..•.•..•••• Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Norwalk •......•••• , ••••• Norwalk . .. ............ ... . 315
Oakland ........•••••• • •• Live Oak . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
''
................ . Oakland .. ............ .. . . . 188
''
.............•.• . Brooklyn ..... . ...... .. .... .. 225
''
................. Sequoia .. ... ......... .. .. . . 349
''
................ . Alcatraz . . .. .. . ... . . . ..... . . 244 ·
... . .•..•• •• •• • •• Fruitvale .. .. . .. ..... .. . .. . . 336
"
.
. . ..•...•... • .•• Bay View . ... . . .... •... .. . .401
"
............
. ... Yerba Buena .•.......... . . . . 403
"
.. . ....•••.•...••• Standard ............ . . .. . . . ~411
"
''
.. . .. ...... . ..... Rockridge . .. . . .. .. ......... 468
''
... .... . .. ........ Fellowship . ..... .. . . .... . . .. 480
''
. . . ... ......... .. . Acorn ........... . . ........ . 494
Oakdale ...••.•. • ...•••• ,Oakdale •.. .. ...... .• ... ... , 275
Oceanpark .. . ... . . . .... ... Ocean Park . .. ... ..... . . . . . 36!l
Oceanside ................Oceanside •.....•...... ..... 381
Ontario ...•..••••••••••• ,Ontario ....... .• ..... ...... 301
Orange •....•..••••••••• ,Orange Grove •.... ..... . .... 293
Orland ••... . ...•••• •• • • •Orland ............ .. . ..... . 26:1
Orosi •..•. ....•• •• •••••• ,Orosi •. ....•.. •. ... .•. •.... . 383
Oroville .....• • .•.•• •. ••• Oroville ...... . •••.......... 103
Oxnard .....•..•••••••••• Oxnard •......... . . .... . .• . 341
Pacific Grove ............ Paci1lc Grove .. . .. .. .. ..... 331
Palo A.Ito ................ Palo Alto ............ ..... . 346
Pasadena .......••••••.•• Pasadena • ........ ........ . 272
Pasadena ....••..•••••••• Corona •........•..... . . . .. .324
Pasadena .....•.... .. .. . • San Pasqual .. .......... . . . . 452
Paskenta .......... .... ... Newville • • .••...........• . . 205
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles .............. .. 286
Patterson • . . . .......... •• Patterson ..... . . .... . . ...... 488
Penryn .....•••••.••••••• Penrhyn ......••..... .. .. .. .258
Perris ....................Perris ................ . . . .. .411
Petaluma ..•••••••••••••• Petaluma . .. . • ..•• • ..... . . . 180
Pinole •.. ...•..•• • .•••••• Pinole • . . ......... .•..• . • . . 353•

•.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. LOCA TlON OF LODGES :

366
Post omce.

Lodge.

No.

Pittsburg ...............• Pittsburg ................... 429
P'acerville .......•...•.•• Palmyra . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 26
Pleasanton ........•.••..• Alisal •..•.....•...•..•.. ; ... 321
Plymouth ...............• Drytown . ., ................ 174
Point Arena ............. Claiborne .................. 185
Pomona •.•........•••.•• .Pomona .....•.....••....... 246
Porterville .. ; ............ Porterville . ........... : . .... 303
Puente .................. La Puente .............. : ... 446
Quincy .••......••...•.•• Plumas ......••............ 60
Redondo .•...•....•....•• Redondo ........•.......... 328
Redding ............•.•.• Reading ..........•........ , 254
Redlands .....•..•••••••• Redlands ................ .. . 300
Reedley .•.•.••...•....•• Reedley •...........•....... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluff ..•..•••......•• Vesper • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • 84
Richmond ................Alpha ...................... 431
Richmond ....... ." ....... McKinley .................. 347
Rio Vista •...•.....••.••• Rio Vista .................. 208
Riverbank .... : ..........Riverbank .................. 459
Riverside ••..•....•...••• ETergreen .................. 259
Roseville .................Roseville ................... 222
Sacramento •...•.•..•••.• Tehama . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • 3
. . ·. ..........• Washington •........... '. ... 20
"
....••..•..•.• Sacramento ................. 40
"
•.••••••...••• Uninn ......••...•• ·......... 58
•. .' .•.•••.••.• Concord •.•....•......... ~ .. 117
Saint Helena ........•.•• Saint Helena ..............• 93
San Andreas •..••••.••.•• Calaveras ..•..•........ : . .. 78
San Bernardino .......... Phoenix .................... 178
''
........•• San Bernardino ............. 348
flan Diego •••..•.•.••.••• San Diego ••...............• 35
''
............. .. Silver Gate ................ . 298

....

''

............. .. Blackmer

................. . 442

San Dimas .............. San Dimas .................. 428
San Francisco ..•..••••••• California • . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . l
"
........... •Parfaite Union ............. 11

•

''
''

... , ....•.. • Occidental ................. 22
........... . Golden Gate ................ 30

"
"

•.•••••••••• Mount Moriah ·•...•......... -i4
•.••..•••••• Fidelity •.•.••.••..••...•... 120
•.•••...•••• Hermann .... , .............. 127
•••••••••••• Pacific ....•.............. . . 136

II
II

Post Offtce.

Lodge.

367
- No.

Sari . Francisco . . .. .. .. . ... Crockett ...........•....... 139
''
''
''
''
''

..
.
"
...
.."

........... • Oriental , .......•...... ·.... . 144
.......... , .Excelsior .............. .... . 166
............. . Mission .................... lf59
........... • South San Francisco .. : .... . 212
... ...• ... .• Doric ............. ..... .... . 216

.•••..•••••• Speranza ltaliana ............ 219
.•••.••••••• King Solomon's ..... . ....... 260
..........•• Starr King ........ ......... 344
•....••.•••• Presidio ........ , ........... 354
......•.••. ,San Francisco · ..•• , ......... 360
•.....•..•••-Amity .•................... 370
•....••••••• Jewel ........ : ..... ........ 374
•.•••••.•••• Richmonu .......•..•....... 375
...........• Parnassus .................... 388
"
......•..... Balder ............ ........ . 393
"
II
.... ..... ..• Fairmount ......... ... .... .435
..........•• Park ............. ......... . 449
"
............Bethlehem ................. .453
"
...... ..... .Golden West · .............•. 455
..
.......... Argonaut .. ; .......... .... . 461
"
.... ... . .... Paul Revere ......... ..... . . 462
"
•..........• Alta Vista ... . .. .......... .464
.. ...... ....Lincoln ............ .. . . .... 470
"
.... .... . .. Victory .............. . .... .474
"
. ..........• Mt. Davidson .............. .481
"
San Jacinto ....•••••••••• San Jacinto •...•........... 338
San Jose ...•..•...••••••• San Jose ................ ... 10

..
..

1
riendship ................ . 210
................. Fraternity ......... : ........ 3,99
............... .. Golden Rule ................. . 479

''

•••••••••••••••• • }

''
''

San Juan ................ Texas .............. ......... 46
San Leandro .••...•..•••• Eden ....................... 113
San Luis Obispo .••..••••• King David's ........•...... 209
San Mateo .•...••..•••.•• San Mateo ................. 226
San Miguel ••.•.•..••.•.••San Miguel •.......•........ 285
San Pedro •...•.•..•..•••• San Pedro •..•.............. 332
San Rafael ...•..••••.•..• Marin ...•....•..•...•...... 191
Santa Ana ............... Santa Ana ........... .. ..... 241
Santa Barbara •.••••••••• Santa Barbara .............. 192
''

..•. ·...... . Magnolia ........... ..... ... 242

San ta Clara ............... Liberty •••.•••..•..•........ 299
Santa Cruz ....••.•.•••..• Santa Cruz ......•.•.•...... 38

GRAND LODGE OF UALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

368
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Santa Maria •........•... He11perian ••..•... •. ... ... .. 264
Santa Monica •••..••••••• Santa Monica .......•.. . ....307
Santa Paula ••••..•.••.••• Santa Paula ........... . .. ..291
Santa Rosa . ....... . ..... Santa Rosa •..•............. 57
Salinas ; ...•.••• •• ••.•••. Salinas •.•.•....... • .•. . . . .. 204
Sanger •..••.••••..••...••Sanger ............ . . .. ......316
Sawtelle •... , •••••••••••• Veteran •...... .'...... •. ... . . 373
Schofield Barracks .. . . .. . Schofield . ........ . . .. .. . . . . 443
Sebastopol •. , ••...•••.••• La Fayette ......... .... .... 126
Selma ..•....•••....••••• Selma •..........•.... . ... .. 277
Shasta .....•• . .. . •• , .•. • •Western Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 2
S1erra City •• ,,.,,, ...•. . Harmony , ...•... .• .. . .. .... 164
Sierra Madre . . ..... ...... Sierra Madre .. ...... . . .. . . . 408
Sierraville . . ............. Sierra Valley .... .. ......... 184
Bisson •....•.•••.••••••••.Sisson .••...••.....••... . .. . 310
Bmartsville •.••.••.••..•..Bose 's Bar . • • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 89
South B erkeley . . .. . ...... E ast Bay ..... ... .... ... .... 489
South Pasadena .•.•..•. •••South Pasadena •...•........ 367
South San Francisco ..•• • • • Francis Drake •...•. • .• . . ... 376
Sonoma •.•.. •••• ••••••••• Temple • • . . . • • • . • . . . • • • . . . . . 14
Sonora ••....• . • •••• •••••• Tuolumne • • • • • • . . . . . . . • • . . . 8
Stockton •.. .. •••.••••.• .. San Joaquin ........... .. .. 19
''
................ . Morning Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
''
... . ....... .... Delta ............ .. . .. .. .. . 471
Stony Ford •..•.•••.••..• Snow Mountain ••....•... . .. 271
Susanville •.••....••.• • •• Lassen .................. . .. 149
Sutter Creek .. ....... .... Henry Clay .. ................ 95
Suisun ••.. . •.....•••••••.Suisun • . . • • . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Taf t ...•. , ..• . ...••..•••. Midway ... ... .............. 426
Tehama •. .~ .••.•.•. • ••••.Molino •.•••.............•. . 150
Tehachapi ••••••••••••••. Tehachapi ............. ..... 313
Torrance ......•........ . .Torrance ..... .• ............. 447
Tracy .... .. . ... . ...... .• Mt. Oso . ... . ....... ... ... . . .460
Truckee •.. .. .• •• ••••.••. Truckee · •••••• . : .•. .• ..•.... 2.00
Tulare ..•. .• ..•.•••••. ••• Olive Branch •...... .. ...... 269
Tuolumne .............. . .East Belt ........... . . .... . 391
Turlock .• , . . , ............Turlock •.•. . ... . . . ....•.... 395
Ukiah ................... Allen •••. • .•••.••. . . . .. ·.... 146
Upland ...... ... ....•.•.. Upland .. . ............ .... .. 419
Vallejo •.. • ...• , ••••••••. Naval ••...•...........•. .• . 87
''
.. .. ............ .. Solano .... . ................ 229
''
. ... . ... . . . .. .... . Vallejo .... .. . .. . . . . .. ..... . . 487
Vacaville •...• ~ .......... Vacaville ............... . ...134

Post Office

Lodge

369
No.

Van Nuys .. .... ...... ...Van Nuys . .... .. . ... .. ... .. 450
Ventura •.........••• , ••• San Buenaventura .... . ... ... 214
Visalia ..••.•.. . .....•••• Visalia •..........•......... 128
Volcano ........•..••.••. Volcano •.. .. ... . . . .. . .. . .. . 5tl
'Valnut Creek ..•...•. .••• Alamo •. , ...... .. . . . . .. . . . .. 122
Watsonville •..... , ...•••. Paj aro •.................... 110
Watts .................... York . , . . , . ..... .. ..... , . .. . . 42:1
Wea verville . . , .. . , . .••.• Trinity , .............. .. .... 27
Wheatland .. . ... ..•. . . ... l• 1colaus . . ... . . . . . . . ... • .. . 129
Whittier ........ . .....•.. Whittier . ... , .. ... , . .. .... .. 323
Win ters ...... .•......• .. Buckeye .. : ..... .... .... . ... l!l5
Willit.:1 .... . .. .. . .. ..... . \ Villits ......... . . . .... ... .. 365
Willows ..•.. • . . . . ..••• •• ,Laurel ... . ........ . .. • , .. .. 245
Windsor ......... , ....•••Russian River ... . .. . . ....• , .181
Williams .. . , ......... •• ••Tuscan ..•. . .... ... . ........ 261
Wilmington ..............Wilmington ......... . . .. , . . . 198.
Woodbridge ............. Woodbridge .... , . ... , . . .. .. 131
Woodland •..•..•.....••. Woodland .... . •. ..... ... . .. 156
Yolo .....................Yolo .. .. . ....... .. ...... , . . Rl
Yorba Linda . .... . . .. . . .. Yorba L inda . . ....... .. ... . 469
Yr eka ... ..... ..... ...... St. John's ............. .... . 37
''
... . . .. ..........• ·. Howard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City ....... .•.•••• • E nterprise , •••.• , ..• , •••.... 70

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, 1920
By JESSE M. WHITED
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
.I submit my second report on Foreign Correspondence,
Believing, as my predecessor, P. G. M. Murphey did, that the
report of a Correspondence Committee is largely for home consumption, and as the form followed last year seems to have met
with the approval of the Brethren of this Jurisdiction, I am following the same plan in submitting facts and figures to you this
year.
The Proceedings reviewed ·last year dealt largely with the
war period. Those reviewed this year are concerned with that part
that Masonry must or should play in the era of reconstruction
and its duty to itself. It is refreshing to find that we are discarding
some old ideas as to the scope of our activities, and searching for
a means to put into practical effect new ones applicable to the
needs of the present. Perhaps the best evidence that the Craft
generally believe that Masonry should be united for the purpose
of working along the lines that some of us have been preaching,
is the formation of the Masonic Service Association, and the
support given it by thirty-nine Grand Lodges.
Acknowledgment is hereby made of the obligation we are
under to the Secretaries of tho several Grand Bodies of the United
States, to the Grand Secretaries of the various Grand Lodges, the
National Research Society and the Editors of a number of Masonic
publications who furnished· statistics and other interesting data
which are included in the report. One Grand Secretary stated that
some of his correspondents evidently were firm believers in immortality on earth, because he was still awaiting answers to
communications sent months before. The same comment will
apply in a few cases to questionnaires sent to various Grand
Secretaries by me, in an endeavor to compile accurate statistics.
l am pleased to say, however, that these cases are. few and far.
between,

2

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"AFFAIRS OF STATE."
We are of the opinion that the meetings of a Lodge should be
so arranged that at some time there should be an open forum,
wherein could be discussed any questions that vitally concern our
immediate Community, our State or our Nation. "Let there be
light," not only in things Masonic but in all public questions.
While some people are like the Scotchman, "who is open to conviction but would like to see the man who could convince him,"
these are doubtless in the minority.
Our discussions should be along broad educational lines and
noti such as to interest ourselves with or taking part in partisan
politics, in the usual sense of the word.
Idaho:
It has become the fashion to sneer at the "politician." I will
not enlarge upon this. You all know that it is true, and you· all
know why. But let us have the justice to recognize the fact that
the man who aspire& to office and who is elected to it, is just as
good or just as bad as the man who elects him. The American
politician, the American officeholder is the reflection of tRe American people. This may not be a pleasant thing to think about s.ome.
times, but let us be just and honest about it and set ourselves to
remedy it. In so doing we will be good Masons.
· In short, I would have Masonry seek, in a practical way to
apply its teachings towards making good citizens.
He who prophesies in this day is foolhardy. But I will say
this: Great changes are coming as the result of this war.
Iowa:
We have often noted that while Masonry puts a good deal of
time in moralizing and philosophizing about the moral law, yet
when it comes to the matter of acting as a unit in matters affecting the public morality, it suddenly becomes hesitant,. timid, and
holds back for fear that if it took hearty action it might fracture
some 11-ncient landmark or break some · hoary-headed precedent.
Now religion and politics are vital matters of vast importance
in human affairs. One deals with our faiths, our hopes, and our
aspirations, concerning itself not only with this life but with tha.t
to come. The other deals with those rules of human conduct that
ena'ble men of widely differing tastes and temperaments to live
side by side in peace and in order-assuring to each one all the
health and happiness it is possible to give him without hurting his
neighbor.
So that when you say to the members of a vast fraternity that'
they 11hall not concern themselves with religion and politics you
are taking on a big contract-one well nigh impossible of performance. To forbid a great human brotherhood from participation in
such vital matters is like trying to drive out nature with a forkalways she comes running back!
•
In nearly all of our Grand Lodges we have witnessed the adoption of resolutions backing up the President, subscribing liberally
for Liberty bonds, contributing to tbe· Red Cross, accumulation
of war relief funds-all of which were, strictly speaking, political
rather than Masonic-that is unless we are· ready to enlarge our

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

3
~ncient definition of Freemason
teal we 3:re using. the word in it:~. Of course, when we say politan~ no{/n the sense of mere office ighebh ?roader, and nobler sense
~~\ pe for any particular party ~~r~f m.g. or of providing powe;
e P.ui-poses.
• · usmg publtc funds for pri. Did the forefathers have .
.
.
~~lm~~e: aga!nsthpolitics that
F~~~er~heyn shtheyld adopted ~he_ir
·
ven in t 1s nobler and h 1· h
ou never mix m

N:e
fh~e~!~ %~~;::s~e~~;~ a.:t~~::ti~~ fhee~ubJ~cf.~1/e;et~:i~0 ~~~~~Z
<eepmg its hands off?

Are we one-standmg forever aloof and

dn~ral prec~pts, and and at the s~~ got. on peren!lially preaching

omg f!Oth1ng to weave those
e '!Ile standmg idly by and
the nat10n? Is that what M precepts mto the laws and life f
We realize full well th asonry means?
o
that. lurk in the path . that le~d~~ers of dissension and disruption
yet is there not some wa i
.o an entrance into politics and

ffca~ssc;I~~ .'l~tfb~h'ai£°~fy~t~7:1o;'~~~ s~~~didyincfl~e;~~ii~ ~ble tphebe

c1v1c life?

·

e proJ ects for the betterment of ~u;

Manitoba:
. If _our Lodges were o . f
.
will arise affecting the sogi~l wolf the d}5cussion of subjects that
Th! ,a great deal of good could e d~re
the ~eoJ?le, it seems to
1's wou.ld make every Lodge' a '[he Yh and mdirectly be done.

ti

~<lu~~tlin~I~ c~~b~lis~uil\~ ~~k~~e th~il dto~~nt:t:o~fd eg~c~~~~~

presente?, certainly not ass d
at no resolution were even
way ~o mterfere with fre~dor:;_ ~/~ht cohuld be construed in any
;:1d~fi~lts~ c~i~r~o1!re sh9u!d be apow~~gt~ ~~e~~ti~sn ~mong our
huss~ons should simplieg~ 1 ~~ ~h~ial 0c[ political action. eTg~rdi~~
earing the pro and con could b cm that the members throu h
able to carry out their social dutl~~~e ti~t~r informed and bett~r
. . .
etterment of mankind
V1rg1nia:
·
. \Ve have just been asked fo
.
position should the Lodge occu; o!lr v.1e:ws on the question "What
~uch that we do not think it wil) m c1v1c .affairs~" Ottr re'p!y was
it was requested. It was of coursaeppear lmbthe Journal for which
'
, an e a orated NONE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ll.EPOln' ON CORRESPONDENCE

and peaceable citizens, true to our government and just to our
country. We are not to countenance disloyalty or rebellion but
patiently submit to legal authority and conform with cheerfulness
to the gover.nments of the country in which we live." And so far
as this doctrine is taught and acted upon, even insisted upon, we
are upon an absolutely safe foundation. If the doctrine was carried farther and a thorough examination was made of every candidate for admission and if every violation of this rule were made
a Masonic offense, we would still be within the rules of Masonry
and would be a tremendous support to constitutional government.
Some of the Grand Masters, however, openly advocate state and
national organization for the purposes of regulating the affairs
of state.
Probably we do not sufficiently appreciate the fact that English and American Masonry is a very different thing from Masonry
in many of the Latin countries and in some parts of Europe. W.e
are not sufficiently well informed to be able to speak w,ith authority upon this question but it is certain that many of the insurrections and many of the revolutionary movements in those countries
have been charged upon secret organizations said to have been
either Masonic or quasi-Masonic in their character and so the
Order has from time to time fallen into disrepute and has even
been proscribed in those states.
West Australia:
· The time is undoubtedly fast coming when Masons the world
over must readjust matters and become a little more than a. society
which restricts its benefits of education and thought to its members. Exactly how this is to be arrived at will require very careful handling, but the writer considers that the principles for which
we stand should enable us to enter the field of reorganization, and
strengthened by our bond of brotherhood lend our united ;1;id
towards the solution of the many difficult problems which face
us from day to day, as a result of the upheaval brought about by
the great war.
AFFILIATES
We certainly believe that unaffiliated Masons in a Jurisdiction
are a detriment to the Fraternity locally. While we appreciate the
sentiment that a Brother holds for his Mother Lodge, still it
should not extend so far as to entitle him to all of the benefits
and privileges of the Jurisdiction, wherein he actually resides,
but stop him from assuming any of its burdens or responsibilities.
Canada: ·
There are numbers of non-affiliated Masons in this jurisdiction
which fact is not most creditable to our institution. Many of these
would be helpful members and a little kindly interest shown would
probably result in their becoming actively connected with the
Lodge where they reside. A brother who may have been unfortunate is not necessarily an undesirable.
Maryland:
A demitted brother challenges the consideratiOn of the Fraternity. The general ruling disfranchises a demitted brother; who
has never violated his vows, nor broken his pledges, but simply
has asked to be released from Lodge fellowship, which means really
Lodge dues. There is a weak point here in modern Masonry.

I_t exalts 1:-9dge membership? It seems to be the right of visita~10n, conditioned ?Pon. certam payments of money, called Lodge
ues . . A non-af~hat~ 1.s rele.ased from the payment of dues and
thereby loses his ongmal right or Masonic right and
· :I
at the. one place on the earth where his presence ma be P;hv1 e_ge,
ard his association inspiring. It is a privilege boughf with ~~~i;g
a t~r .a man J1a;; beei;i most solemnly acknowledged as a brothe~'
cla1mmg affiliation with the universal Brotherhood of Freem 0 '
but arrested at the door of a tyled Lodge It ·
.as nsf,
dollars
d ·
·
is a question o
, pure an s1mp 1e, and does not commend itself to th·
correspondent. But it is so ingrained that it is k" k"
· ts
the pricks to question or condemn.
ic mg agamst
Montana:
.The longer that I am engaged in Masonic work the
~m 1mpress~d wi~h the idea that greater effo"rts should' be pu~f~~t~
o secure t e remstatement of members suspended for non- a _

4

~e~~e :a~tf~~· cotl~~~~nS~fr~~a~~~~· d~~~c~a!~ Lao~~~ ~eg~batr .!'o:~
0

some su~plementary work on the part of Masters in aidi~ s an
encoduragmg the Secretaries in this most difficult task wi"ll prgodand
goo returns.
'
uce
While the matter of inviting Masons to affiliate after m ·
~ ;r~:;' ~~~i: l~ rtehseidentce i~ not fgenefrally overlooked, yet ~h~~~
.
ex ens1on o a raternal welc
t
h
h~~~u~f er~ cLupJed ~ith an invitation to unite in bec°o1!Jngo r:~i~­
It is amatzi~ o ge m the new place of residence and business
this way.
g how some of our Lodges have acquired members i~

f

Nevada:
for ;~~~~ ~~~t{h~i~~ i::~i1~i~~ !r bbot.her to remain unaffiliated
~~~1~·ts ~~~a~h~th~wever, believes\h~t :~~~c~ef:rth~\a~: i~n~h~~
for feilowman
A vacation for.
Mho ha

~hose

Ifej~boste~dy, pruh~en~. arduous, unflinching effort
r is wors ip m Masonry so it must be

v:eca~~tl~do~~l; bo~~t:r:h~o h~~rtvi~~dis b~~de~qu~fet~~

i<lf:

th:- doin~~onz
!~~ei~ 7hoerkc}£ n~stly done and well worth
purposes that he is like one that isa de~sd soT~seless to any of ,its
statesman 91adstone, once said: "In all G d' at pe.erless En.ghsh
place appomted for the idle man,, I No ds creation the;e is no
M
h
·
·
n eva a we quote 1t · "I
A ~iii::ik~r 0
~~l:h~~ ~~i~~e~h;~[ Jhe idle~ Crafts.man.~
Wehstrongly believ.e that a Mason should ~rfiu~~~ a~dvor us.
o f wort as a worker in the place of h'
'd
. ecome
sees no necessity for individual effo is res1 ence. A SO)ourner
per~onal responsibility. A Lodge hasrt, and bof dcourse shirks all
paying into its treasury a altrv sum many ur ens t~. carry and
least of a member's respoifsibiiity Seas .ann.ual ddes I~ the very
upon each member and when a M~son ryice is a ?ty mcumbent
po~e is to 1.ead others along the lines
hig~reaty71ty hwhoshe pura~t1on and in every way to be of use to all
r i. e, t O?g t. an~
v1dual effort and all personal respon 'bTt mankind, sh1·rks md1~hrt 1ou than hafely count
on that Mason being in Mason.ry
would do for him in a selfish way and
t
ouhg t Masonry
to do to bring happiness to others. '
no or w at he wants

i :r;e;:s,

tcf

'ot

fos:

f

5

6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

AMERICANISM
We believe that Masonry should take an active part in the
efforts now being made to Americanize the large number of alien
residents of this country. The need for such service was demonstrated in the composition of the National Army. Of our own
knowledge we know of one Company recruited in California with
a numerical strength of 250 men that had represented in it fiftY·
four racial nationalities. We are "agin" the teaching of foreign
languages in our elementary schools, the publishing of newspapers
in foreign languages, and the colonization of certain sections in
cities or other political subdivisions of our country by any nationality or race. If tlte opportunities offered by our country are
good enough to attract people of other lands, they should be
entitled to enjoy them only by conforming to our laws and customs
and becoming an integral part of the community.
Albert Pike said that one of the highest duties of a Master
towards his brethren was to "Urge them to love one another, to
be devoted to one another, to be faithful to the country, the Government and the laws ; for to serve the country is to pay a dear
and sacred debt."
Alabama:
What does "to lead in enforcing the peace of the world" mean?
It means that the United States must first take the lead in deciding who is right and who is wrong in every controversy that arises
anywhere in the world; she must then assume the heaviest burden
in compelling the party in the wrong (or rather whom .she or
others decide to be in the wrong) to lay aside its arms and return
to the paths of peace, and if it does not, then to furnish more
money, more arms, more ships, more guns, more powder, more
dynamite, more T. N. T., more gas, more men, more blood, more
sorrow than any other nation. We hesitate to accept such a
program.
Let us not deceive ourselves, brethren. There are among us
thousands who, recently coming to our shores, have never contributed one thing of value either to the development or to the
thought of our country; whose ancestors never shed a drop . of
blood for the securing of its safety or independence; to whom we
owe nothing, but who owe us much; yet who like the fabled serpent would strike the breast that has warmed it. They would substitute bloody revolution for the· orderly methods of change provided· by our form of government. The.y would strip the industrious, the provident, the intelligent of the fruits of their labors
and savings and distribute it among the lazy, the vicious, the
indolent and the envio.us. They are by no means confined to the
ignorant, some of them are highly ·educated. Nor is it necessary,
even wise to suppose that they do not sincerely believe that the
methods they propose are the best. This is precisely what makes
them dangerous. A fanatic in an evil cause is the most dangerous
of persons. On the other hand, there is no doubt that many of
those of anarchistic professions are conscious demagogues. Together they make a formidable and threatening combination, which

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

7

it ~ehooves all l~vers of orderly government to combat with all
their I?Ower and mftuence. In such a struggle, call it political if
you w1l!. Masons and .the Masonic F raternity should not and will
not be idle spectators.
District of Columbia:
. The yrand Master. says "the shades of the night of war have
vamshed.
He hopes 1t, but have they? Good Masons like the
~r~nd Master, are ~oo apt to think other's lives an d ai~s are as
t e1r own. W~ · sti~l read of the massacre of ] ews in Romish
Poland, of the mvas1on ~f Hungary by Rumanians, of the massacre of Turks. by Greeks m Smyrna and Salonika. Peace has no-t
come; theri; is no peace. In Russia there are 36,000,000 men capab le of bearmg arms, who are all at war.
Massachusetts:
But mere c_onversation, however well intentioned a nd admirable, does not, 1!1 the homel:i: phrase, butter the parsnips. Words
are but the attributes of actions.
. \Y~ereas, t.he city of Boston was last night the scene of an
exh1~1ti<;>n of. v10lence and lawlessness such as must bring shame
and md1gnation to every true American, and
.
Whereas, this occurrence was made possible because t he sworn
d efenders of the . ~eace of the community, refusing to submit their
cause to the dec1S1on of thi; courts, deserted their posts of duty in
the effort to se.ttle by coercion the question at issue between themselves and their lawful commanding officers, and
ff' Whereas, this disregard for the law on the part of its sworn
o 1cers not only <;>Pi;ned the w~y for an outbreak on the part of
.the lawless ~nd cn!11mal elements of a great city but by exampl
encouraged 1t ; be 1t therefore
'
e
Resolved, that the Freemasons of Massachusetts i n Grand
~od ge ass.em bled express their unalterable attachment to t he prin"
c1p es which have been fundamental to organized Freemason
for mo~c; tha!l two ~undred. years, namely, that the liberty ~
every citizen is the highest aim of the state; that s uch liberty is
t~ be s~ught u!lder a government of laws, not of men; that such
liberty is po~s1ble only when all obey 1'.he laws which all hav
made; that without. such o?edien~e to .Jaw on the -part of all c:iti:
zens free democracies are 1mposs1ble; and be it further
Resolved, that .Americans today face no more important ta k
than that of asserti.n~ and maintaining the supremacy of the lasw
of the Ian~ and res1stmg any and all efforts by whomsoever mad.
~o undermme ~nd destroy that law-abiding spirit and habit wh '
is the foundation-stone of our liberties; and be it further
ic
Res<?lved, that this Grand Lodge request the Grand Maste t
chmmumcate these resolution~ to His Excellency the Governo; of
t e Commonwealth and ~o His Honor the Mayor of Boston 'th
t1ff asr1rance that the eighty thousand citizens here represe::ed
o er u sympathy and. wh:itever aid may be po ssible in their
efforts to assert and mamtam the s upremacy of the Jaw and t 0
protect the peace of the community.
The resolutio~s were . .received with great enthusiasm
d
adopted by a unammous nsmg vote.
an

1

h

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Maryland:
We as Masons, however, cannot live upon the past-the future
lies before us. A greater work is in store for us if we conscientiously measure up to our duties than anything the past has presented. Shall we measure up ? We earnestly hope and pray J:hat
we may. If we go forth from our Lodges, old members as well
as new, thoroughly imbued with the beautiful lessons of Freemasonry, convinced of the truth of the teachings, impressed with
the desire to emulate and surpass the record of the past, we shall
be empowered by our united strength to enable our country safely
to ride over the many difficulties, dangers and pitfalls that lie
before us. Masonry teaches loyalty and fealty to flag and country.
We shall, we must, have Americanism in every sense of the word,
for Americanism represents the teachings of Masonry as laid out
by our wise forefathers. Unless we, as a united, determined and
faithful band set our faces firmly against disloyalty, anarchy, bol·
shevism, or whatever the term applied to the foreign growth whose
seed is unfortunately being sown broadcast in this country may
be, a dismal, dark, discouraging future lies before us.

T.he foreign !anguage press, even though it loudly praises
America, nec~ssarily tends to perpetuate immigrant colonies. So
does the foreign language pulp!t and the foreign language Lodge.
f . The language problem facing A~erica is different' from that
lcin!;\' ~ny other country. The question has nothing whatever to
o ';\'It the advantages of knowing more than one language or
the m.herent superiori~y of one language above another. If e~ery
American knew American, then as many other languages might be
taught as could be absorbed
The pro~lem he;~ is to 'have a common langu~ge as national
cement. It 1s a political matter and not a cultural one although
so.me confuse the two things and deem it narrow to e~clude the
alien to!lgues. Depend upon it, brethren, we must look forward
to the time when the fore!gn language press and the foreign language church and the foreign language lodge fraternity are ended
except as able to survive among those who kn ow English as well:
Nevada:
We take great pleasure· in giving the following excerpts from
t h e address:

8

North Carolina:
I believe the lonesomest man of whom I have ever read or
heard in fact or fancy, in prose or poetry, in history or fiction, is
not Alexander the Great crying for more wo rlds to conquer, not
Napoleon standing on that desert island and looking out acros-;
the waters t o the scene of his former glory and his blasted hopt ~ .
not Jesus Christ Himself as He suffered and died on Calvary; no,
not these. But in that masterpiece of fiction from the pen of Edward Everett Hale, "The Man Without a Country," the lonesomest
man in all the world is found. You will remember how Philip
Nolan, for some breach of discipline, was courtmartialed and when
found guilty, upon being asked what he had to say why se1aence •
should not be passed upon him by the United States, cursed the
United States and prayed that he might nevermore hear its name
until the day of his death. The court martial retired to make its
decision, and upon returning, the president of the court martial,
in solemn tones announced to Philip Nolan that the sentence of
the court martial was that his prayer be granted, and from that ·
day until the day of his death he never saw in print nor heard the
name of his country again. How is it with you today, my friend3?
Are you a man without a country? Is this land your home? Is
this flag your flag?
New York:
What of the Edict, ratified and confirmed at the last Grancl
Lodge session, that all work in the L odges be in the English
language ?
It seems to be the consensus of opinion that such action was
a step in the right direction. The war unified America and Ameri·
canized citizens of alien birth as no other influence could. The
war proved to be a mighty stimulant for the Americanization of
American citizens, wherever born. This unification must be fostered and cemented. The greatest influence in this direction 1s to
bring men and women into knowledge of the general speech. To
lecture an alien to become an American may b e of some use, but
he wou ld form more real contacts in a week if his insulation were
broken than from a year of exhortation.

"In some quart~rs--;-ala?, too f!1any-all change is heralded as
reform. The consti.tution 1s considered a joke, rights of person
and. P1:0perty are a Jest, the only heeded appeal is to passion and
preJud1~e; .a!ly means se~ms to justify the end, when the end itself
1~ not Justifiable. Whoev~r halts or questions is branded as reactionary; whoever doubts 1s declared to be without vision I am
not, and Masons have never been, unmindful that the e~olution
of the races, the de~elopment of intellectual, social and moral life
of th~ I?eople, re.q.u1re new methods of applying right principles
to . e:c1stmg cc;ind1t10ns-that I am not protesting. What I am
s~rMmg tp brin~. to your attention, and enforce by the analogies
?
asonic trad1t1on and te3;chings, is that what we are confronting
is, not a new method, but 1s a purposeful and systematic plan to
overthrow and ~es ~r?y the essential verities of our national government by an ms1d1o~s ;;ind dangerous propaganda of disregard
for the statutes,. constitutions and traditions of our country and
t? .arouse Y?U r mterest and secure your vigorous and united ~ppo­
s1t10n to this dangerous )1eresy."
Oregon:

"~ltei: his duty to. God, the highest obligation that the Mason

is his duty to his country, and these times of unrest social
do~es
1s<_:>rder and lost sense. of right, call for clearness of visi~n and

maintenance of correct ideals.
"It is a tim~ for Masons to stand up and be counted against
every force ~nd mfluence that would infringe the inalienable rights
of men or d1stu;b the peace and harmony of the social order. As
John \Yh1cher, Crran~ Sec;,etary of the Grand Lodge of Caliorma, says, in a recent arttl:le, The American Mason must-and
thank. God, h~ doe.s-st.and firmly, and should stand audibly fo;
the faith that 1~ taught m our Lodge rooms ' and say to the w~rld
Government reigns.
'
'
South Australia:

f' "'(.

No man has any clai~ to rights if he does not perform duties ;
je do not let a man continue to be a Mason and claim the priviehges1 of ~asonry unless he performs the duties of Masonry It
s ou d be just exactly the same in citizenship.
·

9

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC!

If a man won't perform his duties to the State he is not fit
to enjoy the privileges of citizenship. If I had my way I would
make every young man in this country, as part of his education,
fit himself after preliminary training, by actual service in the field
with the colors in time of peace, to do his duty · in time of war if
war broke out.

man was in the stomach. Perhaps we still do because as a matter
of fact a "feed" usually draws a large number of the Brethren to a
meeting.

10

Utah:
. We just can't continue to mark time and repeat.our ceremonies,
and indulge in more or less perfunctory cl;larity work, and attend
social functions, and tell ourselves .what a force in the world we
are, and that Masonry is an ancient institution of universal '!"amifications and actually do not one thing worthy of such an organization as ours, with such tremendous potentialities.
Victoria, 1918:
A Freemason, as a peaceable subject of the civil powers, should
never be concerned in plots and conspiracies against the nation
in which he resides. He should on no account, while taking advantage of the institutions of the country in which he resides, seek
to undermine them by seditious utterances or disloyal actions. He
must uphold the interest of his community and zealously promote
the prosperity of his nation. This present struggle appears to be
a conflict between internal nationalism and loose cosmopolitanism;
and peace of any enduring character can only be realized satisfactorily, when there is complete reconciliation between those two
opposing opinions.

11

Missouri:
We sincerely wish there were more of refreshment and social
enjoyment in connection with Freemasont'y. For a long time we have
met with nothing in the average Lodge, save only the ordin·a ry-sometimes extraordinary-routine of degree work and tbe mere details of
Lodge business. No time for discussion of the great principles of our
Order, .or for brotherly contact and association. Nothing to enliven
the hour or make it other than the observance of a formality. The
social evening, with its fair contingent of wives, daughters and sweetnearts, and the toothsome banquet is. a thing of the past, and the oldfashioned, all-day picnic has given way to the chase of the almighty
do'.lar.
Nevada:
It w~uld be wiser if there was a wider "taboo" of banquets. A
dignified banquet now and then, with a few-yes, a few-carefully
prepared and well-thought-out addresses, is all right, but when it comes
to real socialibility-genuine-get-acquaintedness-the buffet lunch ·has
got them all skinned.

New South Wales:

Virginia:
I call upon each Masonic Lodge in Virginia to stand like a
beacon upon a hill, or a light-house upon a shore, shedding light
and luster and pointing the way at all times to liberty, which can
only be maintained by love of country, respect for its institutions
and implicit obedience to its laws.
If you love your country, if you desire that justice, liberty,
equality and prosperity shall dwell therein, remember that it can
only do so when each respects the rights of his neighbor and all .
shall conform cheerfully to the government under which they live.
The duty which I shall call upon you to perform is to make each
Masonic Lodge a center of light, out of which shal1 go an Influence
for cheerful submission to legal and constituted authority.

"On my recent visitation to West Wallsend, I found the supper
spread in the Lodge room, and onl~ consented to sit down when assured by the brethren that the room had not been dedicated. I found
upon inquiry, however, that the Lodge room had been dedicated five or
six years ago, and have written the brethren of the Lodge that other
arrangements must now be made. I learned with surprise that other
Lodges follow the same practice in. their dedicated rooms. The ceremony of dedication must not be regarded as a mere farce, but as a
· setting apart of a room for the solemn purposes of Freemasonry. It
renders the Lodge room forever holy; and brethren should regard such
a room as what it really is, a place of Divine Worship, for once ·they
lose respect for their sacred surroundings, our Freemasonry wi!l assure<lly suffer. To every thoughtful Mason the idea of a festive board
within the hallowed walls of a regularly dedicated Lodge room is most
· repugnant, and I trust no Lodge in this jurisdiction will ever again
offend in this direction."

BANQUETS
Masonry was originally a conv~vial Society, and the "Table
Lodge" and the "Knife and Fork degree" are almost landmarks.
Experience proves that refreshment is still a drawing card in this
present day and age. Unfortunately, in large cities it has had to
give way to the work of the "degree mill." While this may be
desirable from an econom'.c standpoint, still "All work and no
play" is not a desirable thing in any organization.
A young bride inquired of a practical mother-in-law how to
retain the affections of her husband. The advice of the experienced
lady was, "Feed the brute:" The ancients believed the soul of

South Carolina:
The idea of taxing after-dinner speeches interspersed with music
was too much for our habitual (?) gravity of demeanor. And note,
brethren, that the desired result was only obtained after "a Joni!' series
of difficult and delicate negotiations." On both sides of the Old Herring Pond we have heard after-dinner s(!eakers that we thought should
have been fined for the torture they inflicted on their audiences, but it
r emained for England to blaze the way in this direction.
Reports made by the Grand Master show that in a single year the
brethren in Pennsylvania spent $242,509.79 for banquets and social
entertainments. The sum is certainly large. Measured by the mem~ership of the Grand Lodge, however, it is only $2.00 per capita, and
1t is perhaps questionable whether purely on the side of _public policy,
the money was not well spent. Man is a social animal and this would

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

indeed be a lonesome wor'.d if all the social amenities of life were
excluded. The church that does not hold teas, suppers and bazaars
would soon find itself inactive and dead, and Masonry would fare no
better. About the only place where things of this ki~d are not indulged
in is a morgue and we would hate to see a Masonic Lodge patterned
after that institution.,
BIBLE
The place the Holy Bible should occupy in the Lodge, what
it actually is-, and to what extent one must believe it to be the actual
written word of God, still continue to be topics for discussion.
There are some very comforting thoughts in the Koran, the Vedas,
and Book of The Dead. There has been more persecution and
cruelty done under the guise of religion, and attempts to define
or enforce it than in any other movement in the history of the
world. Maso,nry should never put itself in the position of sanctioning or attempting to define for any man his idea of a Supreme
Being or the Divinity of any human document. As we teach by
symbols, so must we regard ALL the Holy Writings of every
religion.
Alabama:
We thi~k he falls in to another fundamental error when he says
that Masonry has "always recognized the Volume of Sacred Law
as final authority." It is perfectly manifest that so long as we
admit other religionists besides Christians we do not regard the
Bible as authority. We have at all times had some members who
did not accept any part of the Bible as authority and thousands
of them today utterly repudiate one-half of it. The Bible has been
adopted by Masonry as the symbol of divine Truth precisely as
a much-soiled apron is son;ietimes pointed to as an emblem of
purity.
District of Columbia:
The Committee on Correspondence made an additional report
on the Grand Lodge of France, and while it confirms th e report <?f
last year, it seems to believe that among th e lan9,marks t~~re . 1s
no exaction that the "Bible be placed on the altar nor of beh~f
in the immortality of the soul"; and as. we cann.ot find t~es~ m
the early constitutions or charges, we thmk South Dakota 1~ ni;:-ht
all the way through. We naturally believe we are right., We
would Christianize, if we could, every Mohammedan, HmdoQ,
Eskimo and Roman Catholic, but as Masons we should be tolerant
and should introduce no innovations.
Nevada:
We cannot agree, for we certainly do not' believe that a b elief _in
all of the teachings of the Bible is required though our brother misquotes us as saying so. Masons _c an accept the ~ible as the r_ulf
and guide of their faith and practice without acce~tmg foot washing
as a duty or immersion as the only m ode of baptism. ·If a Brother
Mason finds that "truth" in either or both from his point of enlightenment, the -true Mason will allow him his belief and refrain from

13

sowing seeds of discord. Masonry does not seek to deprive
either of t he "truth" as seen by each, or of the consolation his
belief affords him. The truth, as a Mason fi nds it in the Bibte,
should rule and guide him, and he so believes in its teachings and
so accepts it. W e accept the Bible with him as a symbol. of Divine
Truth. Masonry cannot presume to reveal men's minds and consciences and therefore lays down no general rules as to what the
teachings of the great light in Masonry are. T he truth contained
in the great light is left to the judgment and conscience of the
individual as light is given unto him to fi nd it, and as we stated
before; and which our brother app roves, this light can shine from
the Bible, the Pentateuch, the Koran, the Vedas, or any other book
representing the symbol of the will of God. We wish we had
both time and space to enter more m inutely into this discussion,
but we have not.
Brother Grisw old writes glowingly of the Bible as "the one
Holy Book," an d urges Masons "never to lose sight of the landmarks of our Masonic faith through all the storms of t he voyage."
He forgets the Koran and oth er books of faith, and overlooks the
wide divergence in opinion as to what are landmarks. But then
we never should lose sight of the landmarks, whether two or
fifty-two.
Quebec:
Brother Wright is absolutely correct in holding that th e
Sacred Book of the Law m ay in some cases b e the Koran, th e
Veda, the Hebrew Scriptures alone or the English Bible, according
to the religious belief of the candidate concerning which Masonry
asks no question other than to b e assured that he believes in a
Supreme Being Who has revealed His Will to Man, and Who will
reward or punish us according a s we have obeyed or disregarde d
H is Divine precepts. In Brother Wright's paragraph dealing wi th
this subject th!:re is a curious slip of the pen or an unfortunate
error of the printer, for in place of the expression "the St. James
Version," he must surely have intended to say "the King James
Version." James was no saint.
BALLOTING AND THE BLACK-BALL
As there is a demand for efficiency in Lodge work the same
as in every day life, we believe that there can be no serious objection to collective balloting. We have been told there was one
Lodge alone in this Jurisdiction, who voted on seventy-two applications in one evening. While this condition may not prevail in
all Lodges still with the number of petitions now being presented,
some method should be adopted to take care of them expeditiously.
The automobile and a,eroplane are superseding horse and
steam, and Masonry must keep abreast of the times, particularly
when changes· wm violate no fundamental principles.
Delaware:
"In my v1s1ts to the Lodges I have at times received complaints
of the brethren, who seem to regard the right to use the black ball

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

14

15

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

as a personal prerequisite to pay off personal scores or to gratify the
S\!nse of thos~ who wield it."
"The right to elect or reject a candidate is a trust given to the members by a Lodge to be exercised for its benefit. Whoever exercises it
for personal reasons betrays his trust and violates his obligations. I
think some expression such as this should be brought to the attention
of the brethren."
District of Columbia:
One of the most puzzling subjects for our deliberation seems to
me to be the course now followed in balloting on petitions. Under the
immediately preceding heading, dealing with the bulletin, I commented
on the lateness of the hour frequently reached before the conferring
of degrees. · First impressions are lasting. For the welfare of the
attending brethren as well as the impression on the candidates, degree
work should be attended by as many as can remain throughout the
ceremonies. Late hours for work operate to the disadvantage of the
fraternity, the workers, and the waiting candidates. If, while preserving all those safeguards surrounding the most important matter
of balloting, we can discover some way of saving the time consumed
in, say, eight, .ten or more ballots, it would be a big step in the right
direction. For yo11r thought I offer the proposition that where an
excessive number of petitions are to be balloted on, the Master may
have them all carefully read and then take a test ballot on all of said
petitions collectively. If a brother is · opposed to the admission of any
one of said petitioners, he may indicate his desire for separate ballots
through the medium of the black ball or cube, whereupon the Master
will present each petition for ballot. If, however, the ballot is clear,
the same shall be regarded as effective and applicable to each petitioner,
and the Master shall declare each of them duly elected.
Mary.land:
"Article 23, Section 15, be amended as follows: Balloting upon
proficiency for advancement for the Fellow-Craft and Master Mason's
degree may be taken upon more than one candidate at the same time.
In the event of five (5) negative votes each candidate shall be balloted
on separately."
Owing to the large amount of work before our Lodges, and the
numerous amount of time consumed in balloting, which becomes very
perfunctory, we believe that the adoption of this amendment would
facilitate the work of the Lodges to a great extent without detracting
from the dignity of the work.
Nova Scotia:
In the course of the Grand Master's address he says (wisely) he
took ground in opposition to granting charters for the formation of ·
Military Lod1<es. We notice he is opposed to collective balloting on
candidates. We think in.many cases a great deal of valuable time and
unnecessary labor could be saved by the use of the collective ballot
though we are free to admit that our own Grand Lodge has not looked
very favorably upon it in the past.
Tennessee:
.fo the consideration of the proposition "hereafter to give to an
'o~jection' the force and effect of a black ball, but no more," the committee say:

"An examination of the law of forty-five Grand Jurisdictions shows
that the rule now prevailing in Tennessee applies in five of them. In
twenty-five the nature of an objection must be made known to the
Lodge and must thereupon be justified and sustained. by the vote of
the ~dge, the required majority being usually two-thirds. In twelve
Grand Jurisdictions the law is as .now pro~osed f?r Tenness~e .. In the
others not mentioned the rule vanes, but with all 1s less restrictive than
with us." ·
Utah:
A misuse of the black ball is noted, but this. is to be .expect~d so
long as ¥a~oni~ Lodges are made up of h1;1man be1i;igs, an1, m oHr Judgment it 1s mfimtely preferable to pass this reversion to. type, rather
than to seek to cure the disease by legislation, or by mterference by
the Grand Master.
BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS
The various Correspondence Committees review the sayings
and doings of our Grand Lodge officers or the Grand Lodge
itself, for the year 1919, in the following words:
Alberta: The annµal oration, delivered by the Grand Orator,
makes fine reading, but, as the subject was taken from the war,
quotation is not given.
Albama: A very intelligent and interesting ~eport op. the
Library was submitted. Grand Orator Charles H. Victor deltvered
an eloquent address concerning Masonry in the war and its duty
afterwards. One of the very finest discussions of French. Masonry
we have seen is contained in this volume, though it falls mto some
errors.
Correspondence. This r.epor.t is the work ~f Bro.ther J ~hn
Douglass Murphy and is topical m form. There 1s an mterestmg
and valuable symposium of what the several Grand Lodges have
done or had to say about French Masonry.
District , of Columbia: The report on the Decato Home is
always interesting. These two Homes are object lessons .. They
exemplify the practical side of the Order, 'and contrast with the
words-words we so often read, uttered by the chesty orators.
The world is full of men who want to spend the other fellow's
money posing as philanthropists; but in these two Homes the
Masons of the Golden State are decorating the Fraternity with
crowns of gold.
,
The Grand Orator delivered a thrilling lecture, but when he
reached the sublime interrogation of what interrupted the amity
between the two English-speaking nations, a voice exclaimed, "The
Irish." . It was true in the modern acceptation of the word, but
not literally. so.
.
. .
The jurisprudence report of California 1s always a gem, and
though of local import, is, all the same, most interesting.
Georgia: The year was one of gre:it activity and considerabl.e
prosperity to the Cra.ft. May Caltforma ever hold such a magmficen t record!
The Grand Orator. Brother Charles H. Victor, also laid stress
upon the necessity of education, saying:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Illinois: The Grand Master must have kept in pretty close
touch with Masonic conditions, for he reports visiting over one
hundred lodges during the year.
The Grand Master recommended that the minimum dues for
members of lodges be fixed at $9.00.
Good Heavens! Wouldn't the Masons of Illinois get up on
their hind-quarters and paw the air if somebody were to suggest
fixing the annual dues at $9.00 per year? Bill Smith, who belongs
to the lodge at Four-corners and who has never paid over a dollar
and a quarter per year annual dues, would immediately declare
that something was radically wrong with the Grand Lodge and
that there was a tremendous leakage somewhere if it was necessary
to collect $9.00 from the members in order to keep going.
The conclusion of the Grand Master is long, but it is good.
One of the best papers presented to the Grand Lodge was
from the Committee on Masonic Education. We wish that space
permitted quoting it in full.
·
Indiana: The reports from the different Boards of Relief of
California make very interesting reading and they certainly justify
their existence.
Past Grand Master ] ohn D. Murphey presents the report on
correspondence in topical form.
.
It is one of the most interesting reports that it has been our
pleasure to read.
Iowa: In opening this book, the eye falls upon a portrait
displaying the pleasing countenance of Grand Master William
Rhodes Hervey. It is the face of a thinker, and the finely chiseled
features tell of a man of cultivated tastes and keen sensibilities.
One cannot look upon this portrait without feeling that it typifies
all that is good and great in Masonry.
The brethren in California have rendered valuable assistance
in the way of practical war service work.
Brother Hervey submitted a great report on French Masonry,
a report which is eloquent of the broad, deep, scholarliness of its
writer and shows him to be a man possessed of great breadth of
vision and exalted ideals.
After this there are fine reports from the splendid employment
bureaus maintained by the brethren in all these larger California
cities. No Mason worthy the name need go without work in
California.
The Committee on Masonic Education made a great report.
Brother Murphey is sound upon the subject of physical qualification.
Kansas: The report is well prepared and lack of space only
prevents our quoting thei:efrom at length.
Kentucky: The report on Correspondence, an interesting
paper as its author states, "is in the nature of an innovation from
the b~aten path of the 'Correspondence Round Table,' and is very
much an assemblage of matters relating to the war and war
activities."
Maine: He pays beautiful tribute of respect to the memory
of the dead.
The Grand Orator, Brother Charles H. Victor, made an
able oration on war conditions and the results.
An able report of the Committee on French Masonry was
presented.

The Committee on Masonic Education· suggested a plan by
means of which the Craft could become intelligent members. You
may provide the best of plans, but you cannot induce the majority
of the members of a lodge to attend communications which do
not offer Masonic work or a supper or both.
Maryland: The report on French Masonry is most interesting
history.
The Grand Orator, Brother Charles H. Victor, made an
eloquent appeal for compulsory education of our children. His
oration was published.
The Committee on Masonic Education takes an advance step
that will no doubt attract attention, and is worth while to consider.
This is an advanced step that argues well for an increased
interest in Freemasonry.
Michigan: His report (P. G. M. Murphey, Chairman, Correspondence Committee) is certainly an interesting diversion from
that usually followed by the writers at the "Round Table" and
no doubt he gives good satisfaction to the Craft in California.
Missouri: The correspondent (P. G. M. Murphey) then oroceeds to produce a really worthy discussion of certain salient
ques-tions of the present d~y. avoiding as he forewarns us any
descent to the ordinary review!
Montana: The war and its lessons is the subject of the Annual
Oration by Charles H. Victor, Grand Orator; it was a magnificent
effort and we cull but a small flower from the bouquet.
The report of the Committee on Masonic Education is worthy
of study and emulation.
His criticism of style of correspondence reports in vogue is
perhaps a trifle unjust; members are interested as to manner in
which Grand Lodges transact their business; in membership statistics, in extracts from orations, in doings of Holmes, in recommendations of Grand Masters, of Grand Lecturers, etc., etc., but
then unless we did disagree occasionally, there would be no arguments and each would be satisfied with a clam-like existence, and
aside from that, a "Murphy" must start something, and good may
result from it.
Nevada: The portrait is of Grand· Master William Rhodes
Hervey. A face of intelligence, keen and thoughtful.
A splendid patriotism runs through the introductory lines of
the Grand Master's address.
Brother Charles H. Victor delivered a splendid oration pregnant with the truths of today. We fully agree with him, and
have so expressed our views, that it should be the concern of
every Masonic Lodge as to who is running the public schools in
its community.
The report of the Committee on Masonic Education is along
the most progressive lines.
topical lines, but, Brother, this plan has long ceased to be "in the
nature of an innovation."
·
h is a well digested report (Correspondence Committee) along
New Jersey: The Correspondence report is by P. G. M. John
D. Murphey and we give his 'introduction in part. It serves us to
explain our belief that California has found a comp et en t successor
to the Masons of ability who have preceded him.

16

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New South Wales: The report of 't he Committee on l''rench
Masonry is a most interesting document, wh.i ch sh~>Uld be r~ad
by every one who takes an interest in Masonry m foreign countries.
The reports of the Boards of Relief and Masonic Employment
Bureau make pleasing reading; the former show how much has
been done to help others, the latter how much to enable others
to help themselves.
The long section devoted to Masonry and the war contains.
many passages that would s.ee~ to Austr!llians exaggerated and
hysterical, but on the whole 1t 1s a ~ell-'."'n~ten, clearly expressed,
well-substantiated, and therefore terrible md1ctment of the German
people and their Kaiser.
New York: The whole address (Grand Master) is full of
helpful thought and counsel.
The Grand Lodge voted to have. the splend!d '.1dd~ess of the
Grand Master published in pamphlet 'form for d1stnbut10n among
the Masons of California.
The report (Correspondence Com~itte~) makes pr.ofitable
reading. Still, it would seem that California Masons m1~ht be
interested also in the evidences of progress of Masonry m the
individual Grand Lodges as such. There ·is no doubt that Brother
Murphey has rendered excellent ser,vice by gathering togeth~r the
best Masonic thought on several live and troublesome . topics of
discussion.
North Dakota: It is evident that the Grand Master has the
proper conception of Masonry.
Past Grand Master John Douglass Murphey, chairman of the
Committee on Fraternal Correspondence, left the beaten path and
presented a unique and interesting .report. It covi;;rs l~I pa~es. and
the proceedings of all domestic, and most foreign iunsd1ctions,
must have been closely read before it was completed.
Nova Scotia: The report of the Commihee on Corresponde_nce
by P . G. M . John D. Murphey is presented in new shapt; a?d .1s a
good concise report of t~e "do_ing( .of other Grand Junsd1ct1ons.
We rather like the style m which 1t 1s presented.
Ohio: The annual oration was delivered by Br.ot)ler <;:harles
H. Victor, Grand Orator; who touched upon many P.omts of mtense
interest. The War and Freemasonry were t.he subiects up·permost
in the mind of the speaker, and his handling of both was most
effective.
The report ·(Correspondence Committee) is worthy of the
Grand Jurisdiction of California and is a most valuable and 1rtteresting compendium.
Oregon: The address of Grand Master Willi~m R~odes
Hervey covers forty-one pages, and every sentence 1s pertinent
and full of interest.
Philippine Islands: The California Masons did some valuab~e
work in practical war service, as shown from the Grand Master s
address.
Quebec : While the demands upon the activities, inti;;res.ts. and
financial resources not only of the Lodges, but of the md1v1dual
Brethren, have been heavy and unt:easing, the spirit .of M~sonry
has risen to meet them gloriously, and, under the wise guidance
and moving inspiration of the Most Worshipful Grand Master,

Masonry in California has moved steadily forward to higher
attainments and greater goals. At the call of country, and at the
beck of civilization, it has poured fort h its material t reasure in
support of the great Cause of Man; and, at the sound of the
trumpet, it has given near to 4,400 of its bravest sons and truest
exemplars to serve under arms in a struggle which the conscience
of Christendom recognizes as a holy war.
South Carolina: The Grand Master's address covers forty two dosely printed pages, and shows that he must have devoted
a great deal of time and thought to his office.
The Grand Lecturer had a busy year. With the exception of
two weeks in October, 1917, he seems to have been at work every
day of the year, visiting lodges and holding schools of instruction.
We don't believe th_!!.t anything but pure love for our Fraternity
could induce a man to stay away from home so much.
The reports of the various Boards of Relief show splendid
work among our less fortunate Brethren hailing from all jurisdictions.
There is no review of other Jurisdictions, but we have 100
pages of a Correspondence· Report in the topical form from
Brother John D . Murphey, P. G. M. The scissors does most of
the work, and, while brimful of . information, gives no idea of the
work done in other Jurisdictions.
British Columbia: The Committee on Masonic Education
makes a detailed report of what has bee.11 accomplished ,with several
very pertinent recommendations.
Virginia: Individually and in joint meetings the Grand Master visited more than one hundred lodges, No "circum stances
over which, etc.," prevertted his activities and he moulded no paving stones for the place that needs them so much. We do like
to come across a real Grand Master who by diligent service pays
the debt he so truly loves.
There was nothing more to be fo und for review except th·~
Foreign Correspondent's report which was of that so rt we particulatly ciislike, being simply quotations arranged by subjects.
There was nothing original, but as the compiler said it was for
home consumption, we can but hope his own brethren will think
more of it than we do.
West Virginia: The annual oration by Brother Charles H.
V_ictor is most practical from beginning to ending. It discusses
vital, present-day living truths.

18

19

But few proceedings reviewing the work of the year 1919 under
the administration of Grand Master Webster have been received.
From those we select the following:
District of Columbia: The finances of California are marvelous I Neither a holocaust, quake, strike or tidal wave seems to
disturb them. Like Phoenix, they r ise out of their ashes, and
with a bank account unparalleled.
Under the caption of "Educational Matters" is a sound, irreproachable essay, full of wisdom. But w e fear it is too late. Dennis
Kearn ey drove a nail into California's best interests, and clinched
that nail, even though the sand lo ts were metamorphosed into a
park as by the lamp of Aladdin. But the California Grand Lodge
has .had the courage to endorse the Smith-Towner bill.

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

An admirable address was made by Grand Master Bradford
Webster, who glories in the defeat of the Central Powers of
Europe, which, beyond doubt, secures our protection.
The report on correspondence is by Brother Jesse M. Whited.
It is a veritable report and not the customary review. The form
has many advantages, but some disadvantages. · We are most
interested in what the reviewers may find in the report of the
District of Columbia and feel flattered that we are quoted under
the captions of "History," "Clubs," ·"General Grand Lodges,''
"German Exclusion" and "German Masons."
Iowa: The rapid growth of the fraternity put the California
lodges face to face with the problem of adequately handling t he
procession of candidates for the degrees.
Brother Charles H. Victor, as Grand Orator, delivered an
inspiring address, from which we are glad to quote.
Masonry in California is a very efficient and practical force for
good. Out there they do something besides talk about the great
things they are going t o do.
We believe that the pressure of business is causing our California brethren to tread on dangerous g,round. It is far better
to do less work and to do it well than it is · to run a degree mill
and run th~ough a lot of candidates just for the s,ake of getting
members.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits his first report on Fraternal
Correspondence. The report is in topical form and makes very
interesting reading.
Nevada: Grand Orator Charles H. Victor is to be congratulated for his wonderful address.
Br.other Jesse M. Whited submitted the report for the year.
It is a niost excellent summary of · borrowings from the thinkers
of other jurisdictions, with many excellent comments thereon.
New Hampshire: The work of their employment bureaus, as
reported annually, attracts us.
The Correspondence is classified by topical headings, not by
jurisdictions. Of its kind it is an attractive document, yet in no
way does it show the activities of any particular state. That it
has always seemed to us is the most desirable object.
New Jersey: The address of Grand Master Bradford Webster
is well characterized as thorough, comprehensive and thoughtful,
educational in character, and in appropriate presentation of interesting data had not been excelled by any previous address, in the
opinion of the committee to whom it was q:ferred.
New York: The Grand Master's address is unusually .fine:
The Report on Correspondence, prepared by Brother Whited,
is of the topical persuasion, giving the writer free scope to introduce such subjects as appeal to him.
South Australia: The report to hand which covers the proceedings of the communication, which exten.ded over three days,
is most comprehensive, and conveys to the members of the Constitution much information regarding the doings of the Craft in
the Jurisdiction.
Oreji!;on: The address of the Grand Master is on a par with
the excellence of Masonic work in this wideawake Grand Jurisdiction.
The 'Report on Correspondence is presented by Brother Jesse
M. Whited, his first report. There is a very clever introduction

REPORT ON CO .. RESPONDENCE

21

and an able review of Masonic life and opinions arranged under
topical headings. For instance, "Banquets," " Bible," "Ballot" are
.t opics under which he assembles opinions from the various Jurisdictions on those subjects. He has a style altogether his own, but
very interesting nevertheless.
Vermont: Brother Jesse M. Whited of California submits his
first report which appeals to me as being very excellent. He pursues the topical plan, that is, he digests the repo rts of ot her jurisdictions, by topics and states what each jurisdiction has done with
respect to that subject, arranging the several jurisdictions alphabetically under each subject. Some who made use of the old system
giving a brief review of what has been done by each jurisdiction
without other system than that of following t he names of the
jurisdictions alphabetically maintain that discussion by topics is
not a review.
Wisconsin: The Grand Secretary's Report is especially full
and complete, and contains some suggestions worthy of consideration.
The Report on Correspondence was prepared by Brother Jesse
M. Whited, it being the first submitted by him. It is arranged
along topical lines, and while more extensive t han such reports
usually are, does not differ fro m the usual topical report. Our
brother has shown good judgment in culling from the proceedings
examined, but the method is radically wrong, and we predict
that Brother Whited will soon abandon it and fall in line with
the usual methods which have proven more efficacious and
instructive.
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH
In our last year report, we treated this under the heading
"Catholics." Our Grand Chaplin inquired; "What do you mean
by Catholics?" so we are using the prefix to show to whom we
are referring.'
Masonry as an organization has no quarrel with the Roman
Catholic Church; popular belief to the contrary, Both organizations contain "radicals," and we do not think that some of the
utterances of part of the Catholic papers are any more an index to
the character and belief of a large part of the American Catholics
than some of the utterances in the Masonic press are of Masonry.
When Masonry as an organization gets behind a proposition,
in order to be successful it must do so on the ground that it is
for that proposition because it is RIGHT, regardless of who is for
or against it. It is usually not good politics or practice to be
obliged to make a defensive campaign. Better let us make the
issue and some one else fight it.
Alabama:
Brother Goodwin takes the position in strong terms that a
Catholic sho uld not be made a Mason. We do not quite agree
with our brother. Of course a Catholic who sha res the intoleran t
views expressed in the many papal bulls against Freemasonry and
surrenders the freedom of his religious conscience to the Catholic

22

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

hierarchy, is unfit to 'be made a Mason. But we believe it is
entirely possible for one to be a devout believer in Christianity as
taught by. t~e Catholic church .and still be in every way fit for .
membership in our great Fraternity. 1udged by this test we believe
there are thousands of Methodists and Baptists and Presbyterians
whose religious visions are so narrow as utterly to unfit them for
membership in the Craft.

by Brother S. M. Yoran. There was a large attendance of Roman
Catholics at this service.
·
·

District or' Columbia:

Tn 1909 we were looking along the second-hand book-stalls
ne'l:r the Latin quarter in Paris for some of Sauvestres books
which were out of print. A soiled copy · in paper cover of
''Vie de Jesus par Leo Taxi!" was ·uncovered.' We knew that Taxi!
~a newspaper reporter) was the author of that amusing report
1~ 1896, at Trent, attend.ed by. bishops, priests, etc., of the Roma~
hierarchy.,; blessed by H1.s Holiness, etc., and called "Anti-Masonic
Congress, ~.here sue~ invectives were hurled at Masonry. We
~ought. Ta~1l s bo~~· 1ust a.s the vendor recognized and saluted
Mons1eu I Eveque (the Bishop), who seemed to be searching.
Wh~~ he had passe~ the vendor said to me that had I not bought
Taxi! s book the Bishop would. I asked why the Bishop would
wai:it s~ blasph~mous a book, and he replied, "To destroy it."
It 1.s said the h1er.a~chy has three times bought up all available
c.opies of B?cacc10 s Decameron, plates and all, to destroy
literature against the holy mothe.r church.
W~ wonder how many remember the Taxi! hoax. We bet that
Catholic crowd has not forgotten, though wishing it to be
forgotten.
·
rlorida:
The . following incident i_s the first and only one of its kind
ever having come. to the notice of the writer in his experience of
?ver forty years in the Fraternity. It is said to have occurred
in Oregon, and the correctness of the statement is vouched for
by those in authority. We cannot understand how it was possible
that a priest of the Roman· Catholic Church could have consented
to have performed the se'rvices of his church for one not buried in
consecrated ground. .We are inclin_ed to believe that his Bishop
would not only reprimand the priesl, but ex-communicate the
deceased.
On April 3 Brother Hodes passed to that realm from whose
bourne n? traveler ever returns, and his funeral was held on. Sunday, April 7. He left a request for a Masonic burial, to be conducted ~y ?rother S. M. Yoran. Eugene Lodge met in special
communication Sunday afternoon, and repaired to the chapel of
the undertaker, where the first service was held. This service was
condu~ted by the ~atholic priest, who gave a short address which
was highly appreciated by our members, to which not one person
present coul_d have taken the least exception. He then offered up
prayers for . the .re~,ose of the soul of the dead. The service ended
by the smgmg of Nearer My God to Thee" by a choir composed
of members of the Fraternity.
Eugene Lodge t~en took charge of the remains and conveyed
them to the Masonic cemetery, where they were interred in a
crypt of the mausoleum with full .Ma.sonic burial service conducted

23

******

In every country where the Roman Catholic Church holds the
reins of power, Freemasonry does not possess the right to exist.
Masons have been persecuted and tortured by the rack, wheel and
flogging, with the object of compelling them to make known the
secrets which were communicated when initiated. In some countries, not very long since, capital punishment was administered to
individuals who were violating the laws regarding the holding of
Masonic meetings.
Pope Plus IX. in his "Syllabus," denounced and accursed all
Masons, and prohibited all Catholics from associating with members of this institution. The Odd Fellows, Knights o f Pythias,
Sons of Temperance, Junior Order of Mechanics and every other
patriotic o rder, is included in this malediction of the Pope.
Pope Pius X. was in unison with his predecessors from
Clement XII. in 1738, to Pope Leo XIII. in 1890, who condemned
Masons as anti-Christian and immoral, and pronounced excommunication against · Catholics who should become members. One
of the most orthodox 1Catholic papers, and the official organ of
the Archbishop of Chicago, says, "As compared w ith the real
Freemasonry, and the occult degrees of the Blackhand Society of
the Italian Mafia, the Blackhand Bandits are simply robbers and
demand •only money, but the Masons demand that you dethrone
God from the hearts and minds of all." All t he members of the
nameless degrees are atheists. The Catholic Church authorities
have never expressed doubt that the influence of the Masonic
Craft is baneful, and direct antagonism to citizenship.
The Review, another prominent Catholic paper, says, "Why
doesn't somebody in Congress introduce and pass a bill to investigate and destroy these Masonic Orders and other secret societies?"
The probable reason why it is not done is because no such bill
could be passed. Pope Clement XII. prohibited his subjects under
penalty of death fro m becoming affiliated with, or from assisting
at an assembly of Freemasonry, or to render any aid, succor o r
a retreat to one of its members.
In view of the many ii:icidents occurring of recent date, it
must be admitted that there is a bitter enmity between the
Catholic Church and Freemasonry, for though Freemasonry does
not concern itself with Catholicism, the Church of Rome never
loses an opportunity to vilify or malign members of the Masonic
Fraternity.
Iowa:
There is rapidly growing in this country a fraternity which,
while ever protesting it has no political ambitions, is none the less
filling many of our civil offices with its memQers and making its
influence widely felt in public affairs. That fraternity is pledged
to the promo:tion of the interests of one certain church. In its
eyes the state is subordinate to the church, the state is amt should
be merely the vassal servant and instrument of the church. Unlike
the Masonic Fraternity it entertains no scruples whatever about
mixing in politic$. It mixes, and mixes persistently. During the
war it mixed to such good effect that it not only compelled you
and me to c;hoose between contributing to a war relief fund, a
large part of which was to be administered by it to the glory of

24

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

a sectarian church, or of appearing to be a slacker, but it alsc•
persuaded our Government to deny passports to our own war relief
agents until the war was over, so that it might put us before the
world in the light of a charitable organization of vast pretentions
and little or no performance, all the while parading itself as the
only truly patriotic human brotherhood.
Now that peace has come we need look for no cessation of
effort on the part of this fraternity to enable its church to engraft
itself upon the State, to fasten itself there like a leech and fatten
itself upon the lifeblood of our Civil Government.
Shall Masonry still keep her hands out of politics-play no
part in making Democracy safe for the world-have naught to do
with the establishment of a brotherhood of nations?
Perhaps, as an institution, yes.
Nevertheless, thank God, there is no law in Masonry that
prevents us as individuals from doing our duty as men in these
great crises, and that is a privilege that can never be denied us.
While we may be denied the right as an organization to enter
politics for the protection of our country, yet there is no power
on earth that can prevent us from standing shoulder to shoulder
as individuals, and to say to the enemies of our country seeking
to prey either privately or publicly upon her sacred institutions,
even as did the brave poilus to the Prussians marching on Paris
-They shall not pass.
Ireland:
It is an extraordinary thing how common is the opinion that
Freemasonry is opposed to the Roman Catholic religion. We
know that a great many members of that community formerly
belonged to our Order. I had the pleasure of meeting three
Roman Catholic Judges-Judge Keogh, Lord Morris, and Lord
Justice Barry-at Masonic dinners on several occasions, about 40
or 50 years ago, before some of you were born. We know that
the Roman Catholics have seceded from us because they were
obliged to do so by the direction of their church, but many of
them have told me they would like to become Freemasons if they
were permitted to join the Order. There are thousands of Freemasons in purely Roman Catholic countries. Ninety per cent of
the French population are members of the Roman Catholic Church
-nominally, at all events-and still Masonry. flourishes in France,
and also in other Roman Catholic countries. In Ireland, at all
events, we are a non-political body in every sense of the word
and equally non-sectarian.
'
It is a curious circumstance that I am the almoner for the
Masonic Institution for Girls in England in regard to a Roman
Catholic girl who is being educated at the expense of the English
Freemasons in a school kept by nuns in Ballina. The girl's mother
was a Roman Catholic, her father was an English Freemason, and
their children were brought up Roman Catholics. I am sure the
cheque which I get four time~ a year is none the less acceptable
by reason of the source from which it comes, and bearing in mind
the spirit that animates the donors. It is a remarkable example of
the catholicity of Freemasonry to see that it is supporting a
Roman Catholic girl in a Roman Catholic school.
Nevada:
We again beg to differ: The Treasurer of Carson No. 1 Carson
was a Roman Catholic. He was a good Mason, and a good churci1

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

25

member, during his life, contributing to charity, to church and
Lodge generously. When he died he was buried by the Masons,
and his priest said his standing with his Maker was as good as
any Roman Catholic. After all, what concern is it to Craftsmen
what his standing with his church? Masonry's concern is not to
shut out a Roman Catholic if he wants to come.
* * * Masonry draws the line on no man because of his religion. It is not the religion of the Catholic that Freemasonry
condemns. It is the meddling of th~ Catholic hierarchy with
politics that we disapprove and personally we would disapprove
this as promptly and fight it as vigorously in our own church as in
any other.
Oklahoma:
When we read the Grand Master's opening address we thought
that he breathed the right Masonic spirit, and was not in favor of
chewing the rag over some disappointment of some great Masons
during the late war. Not now wasting ammunition shooting at
dead ducks.
But further along in the proceedings we find that the Grand
Lodge adopted a resolution, stirring up the conduct of the Administration and condemning it for its action in managing the army
without the aid of great Masons, in their efforts to go across to
help Masons in the army. If these great Masons had shouldered
their guns and tried to go to the front as soldiers, perhaps they
would have been accepted.
The writer is an ex-soldier of the Confederacy. His idea of
war is war.
Soldiers go out to fight and all our side have our sympa~hy,
and help, and all on the other side we. try to kill. As Masons we
should keep out of politics. To chew the rag at the management
of our armies, should be left to the voters and \awmakers and not
Masonic organizations. Some of these great Masons want to
make a fight against the Catholic Church, which to our mind is all
wrong and un-Masonic. One of the valuable tenets of Masonry is
to give every one the right to his religious belief, and if it does
not conform to Masonry he is not permitted to enter and be made
a Mason. The Worthy Matron of the Eastern Star last year, at
Hugo, is a Catholic. Bout we know of very few Catholics as
Masons.
Utah:
He knows, too, that, according to the testimony of those who
are opposed to all Masonry, the Freemasons of France have had
no small 'share in the work of separating Church and State in
France, and in helping to break the strange-hold of the priesthood
upon the educational system of that country. He knows further,
that the Masons of France have done the work, and have exhibited
the characteristics of Masons during the terrible conflict, now,
happily, a thing that lies behind us. And yet, in spite of the fact
that our brother knows that the Roman church does not stand
for the high things for which Masonry stands, and that it opposes
with all the great power it possesses the Fraternity to which he
belongs and the ideals and principles which it enunciates, he tells
the Craft of his jurisdiction that he would prefer the company of
the Papacy to that of the men who have given such evidence of
their sincerity and of their just claim to be counted as Masons.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ·ON CORRESPONDENCE

And why? ,Because, as he asserts, they do not frame to pronounce
a religious shibboleth precisely as he pronounces it. We repeat,
we cannot comprehend such an attitude of mind.

account of the confessional is not a serious one. The things that
the Catholic church does not know concerning Freemasonry are
of a very trifling nature, indeed. We cannot safeguard our secrets
from the confessional. but how much wiser any of the priesthood
would be on accc;mnt of. having received information of this kind
is a matter of great doubt. When one engages to post a candidate
in the lectures of the Craft and sees with what difficulty and .what
endless repetitions the information can be imparted so as to be
retained, he ceases to worry about some priest remembering much
of it through a cas.ual confession. The Review of Wisconsin, is

26

Vermont:
Correspondents from some other states are equally as outspoken and there are many Masons who seem to feel that it is a
special' function of Masonry to oppose the Roman Catholic Church.
The Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. 9, at pages 786 and 787 and certain
edicts of the church, are cited in justification. No one should
place any great reliance upon these edicts, however, without reading the whole article on Masonry as found in this Catholic Encyclopedia, Vol. 9, at page 771, wherein they will find that Protestant
states were among the first to issue a ban against Masonry and
that at one time this was a very live question even In England.
The wave swept ,over the United States almost within the memory
of our oldest inhabitants and the present ,Vermont statute against
extra judicial oaths was the outgrowth of that controversy. We
carry no brief for the Roman Catholic Church, but any movement
on the part of Masons or any association among Masons which
seeks to get into any controversy with that church is an injury to
Masonry and outside the purposes of the Order. There is probably
something in the confessional of the church and some of the
so-called secrets of Masonry which render it best that a .good
Roman Catholic should not become a member of the Masonic
Fraternity, either from the standpoint .of the church or of Masonry
and there the matter should drop. Masonry is not seeking to make '
recruits from the Roman Catholic Church and the Roman Catholic
Church does not want its members to be Masons. While Masonry
does not solicit members on the one hand, on the other the spirit
of Masonry is deeply religious and we have no quarrel with the
religion of others; neither are we to forget that the Protestant
and the Roman Catholic Churches sprang from a common origin
and are both Christian institutions. There is altogether too much
groundless emotion on this question.
The "Literary Digest" of May .22, gives the religious preferences of all the prominent candidates for the presidency from the
two leading parties. Some of them are Masons. Not one of them
is a member of the Roman Catholic Church and, consequently, if
the nominations are made from these candidates the constituency
of the largest church in the country will be compelled to vote for
a Protestant candidate. If this were changed and the candidate
were to be from the Roman Catholic Church, we suspect that
some of our prominent and enthusiastic Masons who are so alarmed
by the growth of Catholicism and its hostility to Masonry would
foresee the destruction of the country.
Wisconsin:
The decision made that a petitioner for the degrees may be
of the Roman Catholic faith is criticized in the following words:
"We are bound to remark that we do not agree with this
decision in view of the confessional and the unveiled antagonism
of the leaders of that church to our body."
Masonry would cease to be Masonry if it drew a distinction as
to a man's creed so long as he is a believer in God and a future
state. We have no quarrel with the Catholic church. It takes two
to make a quarrel, and Masonry holds aloof. The objection on

27

CEREMONIES
The Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands had submitted to
it a proposition that had for its ultimate end the interesting of
the sons of Masonry in the Fraternity. The Craft has no greater
duty than the one it owes to the sons of its members. We hope
the day is not far distant when some plan will be worked out and
adopted with this end in view.
That our ancient Brethren thought along this line is witnessed
by the use of "the Lewis."
·
Iowa:
For reasons which we have frequently heretofore given, we '
do not believe that a Masonic Lodge should, as a Lodge, attend
the services of any sectarian or denominational church. Nevertheless, there is much more sense in adopting a regulation of this
sort than there is in grinding out everlasting dispensations for
attending divine services. Such attendance is either a Masonic
function, or it is not. If it is, no dispen·sation should be required.
If it is not, it should not be permitted at all. ·
Nevada:
In Nevada the Craft paraded as citizens, loyal and true, and
not "dressed in white gloves and aprons, the usual badges of the
Order of Free Masonry." Today the Masonic parade is seen in
most jurisdictions only in dedication and cornerstone ceremonies,
but in early London Masonry processions of Craftsmen in gloves
and aprons were common, and we are told by Brother Gould that
when the small armory of the Tower of London was finished King
William and his consort Queen dined there in great form, attended
by all warrant workmen, "dressed in white gloves and aprons, the
usual badges of the Order of Free Masonry." If the situations
were reversed, and the days of then · were the days of now, what
,a howl would go up about innovations in the body of Masonry.

* * * * * *
He refused a dispensation to a lodge to attend divine service
on a Sunday. We rejoice in the fact that as yet Nevada Lodges
have the right to attend church without a Grand Master's interference one way or the other. Lodges should certainly have a
say in regula'ting their own private affairs, and particularly when
the regulating is in strict accord with the guidance of the Holy
Bible.

28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Australia:
A rather suggestive and somewhat original motion ·was introduced by Past Grand Master H . Eugene Stafford (Philippine
Islands) (and duly carried) having for its object the introduction of
a suitable ceremonial wherein Craftsmen could dedicate their sons
to Masonry. In commending his motion, Bro. Stafford observed,
inter alia : "I am satisfied that those of you who have children,
especially boys, would appreciate the opportunity fo dedicate these
sons to Masonry. This is possible, and a ceremony can be devised
whereby a Mason could have his son dedicated, and have it done by
the Lodge of which he is a member in a public function to which the
family .and others can be admitted. The ceremony's influence
would last to the boy's manhood, would teach him who his father's
associates were, and would give him an idea of what Masonry
means which could not be g·iven him any other way." There is,
I think, undoubted value in the ~uggested ceremonial of dedication, even more than appears on the surface. South Australian
Craftsmen might do well to consider the propriety of following the
example of our Philippine .Brethren.
·
CIPHER RITUALS
One of the charms of Masonry is that its esoteric work is
unwritten, and it has htid a large part in building up the Fraternity.
The printing press and unworthy Brothers, taken in connection
with the action of certain Jurisdictions in adopting ciphers or keys,
cannot have other than a disastrous effect.
The Cipher Ritual is of course a boon to the lazy officer or
member, but this should not be an excuse for its existence or
adoption.
Georgia:
The menace of the cipher still exists. .In the various Proceedings,
from time to ' time, appear efforts to establish the printed key, which
we are compelled to regard as the direct ·violation of Masonic obligations. Some of the more enthusiastic plead for its use as a means for
more uniform ritualism.
We have contended always that Masonry is more than ritualism.
It does not require a cipher to perfect ritualism. If officers and
brethren will take the required time;, work can be learned better than ·
·
from a printed cipher.
Nebraska:
Notwithstanding the efforts heretofore exercised by the Grand
Custodian, and by Grand Masters, the persistent use of spurious keys
and ciphers continues throughout the jurisdiction to a considerable
extent, and it has been very difficult at times to locate them, but the
evil effect of their use is. very apparent.
Nevada :
Then follows a record of lost rituals! To the shame of the Craft
in this progressive jurisdiction. If there must be rituals, let their loss
be a matter between the losers and the Grand Master, and do away
with this lost, strayed or stolen busil!ess in the Master's address.

29

REPORT ·ON CORRESPONDENCE

I quote a few short extracts from letters received from different
jurisdictions with reference to their use:
"Alabama-No key of any kind is used.
"Arkansas-No. we are drastically against it.
"California-No, the obligation prohibits it.
.
"Colorado-Yes, we use them, but they are a gh,astly thing.
"Delaware-We swore we wou!dn't and we wont.
"F'orida-Don't have it. Always voted down.
"Illinois-If you decide to adopt it well and good, but we have
always frowned on such action.
" Iowa-·W e have none.
"Kentucky-Grand Lodge has never authorized its use, and I hope
it never will.
"Louisiana-Forbidden in this jurisdiction.
"Maryland-Have no key in any shape or. form ...
"Massachseutts-Possession of one here 1s suff1c1ent grounds for
expulsion.
·
I k
"Minnesota-We have it here. The brethren m genera
now
nothing about it, and I doubt if one in a hundred could make anything
out of it.
"Missouri-No.
"Nebraska-An offense to use it.
"Nevada-No, No, No.
"New Tersey-We have none.
"New °Mexico-Illegal in this state.
"New York-Its 11se is prohibited.
"North Carolina-We have no such thi-ng and know nothing
about it.
.
"Pennsylvania-Not in Pennsylvania.
"Tennessee-Old-fashioned enough down here to stick to the olil
way.
· "lJtah-Verv nrnch opposed t o its use.
"Vir(linia-Our work taught orally. Opposed to key.
"Washinl'ton-T am happy to. say we do not.
.
.
"Wisconsin-I know my advice as Grand Secretary of W 1scons111
does not amount to a great deal, but I would smi;gest to ~he bret~r~n
of Oklahoma to think a great many times before they permit an off1crnl
kry to the work.
.
, .
.
,,
"Wyomin(l-Yes we have 1t. Don t like 1t very well.
To adopt a key' to our esoteric work _would mean that ev~n.t1;1ally •
the conferrin~ of the degrees w_ould ha.ve httle effect upon. the 1111tiatcs
~mt they would be possessed with· the idea that . Masonry 1s not such a.
l1idden treasure after all; that their conception of its h~ving bee.11
handed down to us from rnouth to ear !hrough the centuries past, 1 ~
hut a myth, and not a reality.
Wisconsin:
We learn from his review of Wyomin(l that in Kentucky all ciphers
are under the ban; the same is true in yYisconsin. Apples were pri> ·
hibited in the ·Garden of Eden, and their unlawful use produced a.II
kinds of trouble throughout the ages. We suspect that the sam~ is
true of unauthorized ciphers. There are those that are tempted and
yield to temptation; sometimes it results in their epulsion; such is the
penalty prescribed in Wisconsin for their use.

•

•

•

*

*

•

*

•

*

*

The Grand · Master (Michigan) mentions under the head of "Lo~t
Rituals" one copy lost by the Master of a Lodge while boating, anoth<'J'

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

lost somewhere on the street, another lost, no showing being made a~
to how or. when. The impropriety of printing in any manner of cipher,
the esoteric features of the work are thus strikingly made manifest.
The work of. the Secret Service of the United States during the recent
war should ~how that .there is no cipher that can be devised by man
that human mtellect will not be able to decipher and besides it is a
'
palpable violation of one's obligations to so publi~h it.

adoption of a law prohibiting. the use of . the: Shrine regalia by ·
negroes in that state, and intend to en.force ~t vigorously. I~ other
states it has gone so far as to make 1t a m1s.d~meanor, _pumshable
by imprisonment, to wear emblems of fratermttes of which you are
not a member.

30

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

We hope at that time a grave may be dug for this amendment
to adopt a cipher ritual, that shall be six feet perpendicular and
there the proposition may be safely laid at rest. Such a key' does
not conduce to good work and is a violation of Masonic principles
and obligations.
·
CLANDESTINE MASONRY
The Correspondent of Florida states that Masons of California
secured an adoption of a law prohibiting the use of Shrine regalia
by Negroes.. We think this is a typographical error, and the name
of some other State should be inserted, because we are not aware
of any such action.
The report of the Utah Committee would undoubtedly be in- .
teresting reading, and a general benefit to all, because that State
is the home of the most active of these pests. It is to be regretted
that condltions did not allow the publication of it, because their
reference to it only stimulates our curiosity.
"When thieves fal~ out honest men get their due," and as the
promoters of the "American Masonic Federation" in California
are now airing their grievances as to each other in Court, undoubtedly sufficient publicity) will be given to its local operations,
to enlighten and warn the general public.
.
In San Francisco some of the unfortunates who have "been
trimmed," have started Criminal proceedings, and the District
Attorney's office in San Francisco is giving the matter preferred
attention. Anything that can be done to exterminate these confidence men should have the support of all right thinking men.
men.
Florida:
_From one o~ the Masonic papers of recent date we learn that
a bill h~s been mtroduced in the Wisconsin legislature aimed at
th~ closmg of clandestine organizations, and providing fi~e and impnso~m~nt for members of such. We learned also that the state
?f Ilh~o1~ alre~dy ~·ias such a law, but it is not sufficien"tly severe
m pumshmg v10lattons of the law to be very effective.
M~ny . of ,the western states have such a law and have been
enfo.rcmg 1.t ngoro~sly. In Georgia, they have a law under which
!'egro Mason~, _Kmg:hts of Pythias and Shriners, have been punished, and_ an miun_ctton was granted restricting them from wearing
~n.y re~aha as Kmg~ts Templar, Knights of Pythias, etc., and the
miunct1on. when earned to the Supreme Court -of the United States
was sustamed. The MaSOJ;lS in c~ lifornia have just .s ecured the

New Mexico:
Little harm can come to our institution from Clandestines.
They may annoy, but silent contempt should mark our treatment
of them wherever fo·und.
Philippine Islands:
During the year 1?17, a man. by the n~me <!f George Holt,
representing the American Masomc Federation w_1th headquarters
in Salt Lake .C ity, Utah, attempted to sell bo~us degrees of
Masonry in the Philippine Islands. Heretofore 1t has been our
policy to ignore this nefarious practice of using the good name of
Masonry to obtain money. The · result h~s been that some were
duped into purchasing the so-called Masom~ degrees. The Masons
of this Jurisdiction should keep on t~e trail of these. pu;veyors of
illegitimate Masonry and see that the i:ietestable practice 1s stamped
out of these Islands. The Attorney General's Office is no~ in a
position to prove that the vendors are impostors. Th.e evidence
must be furnished by all good members of the Fraternity. Every
Mason of this Jurisdiction is requested to perform his duty in its
fullest measure. By so doing these impostors will soon be driven
from our midst.
Texas:
"The American people love to be humbugged;" the truth of
which we often see exemplified every day and in many ways.
Clandestine lodges still exist in several jurisdictions.
With all that has been written and published, this barnacle
still lives and gathers the shekels of the ignorant simpleton.
Report of Committee on Clandestine Masonry
Utah:
The Report .;.,,as read and a motion was made and carried that
·it be adopted but that it be eliminated from the printed proceedings.

* * * * * *

Among the several magazines donated for use in the library,
we notice the "Universal Freemason." This is the output of the
clandestine organization which is operating. in" various states, and
turning the coin of the unwary into the till of one, Thomson, whose
headquarters are in Salt Lake . City, this state. The head of this
gold brick factory, a former member of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, was expelled by that Grand Lodge on August 6. 1914.
The Grand Secretary called attention of the Craft to a clandestine lodge at Bridgeport which is "operating under the auspices
of the co-called 'American Masonic Federation,' the latter being
headed by the notorious Thomson, of Salt Lake City, Utah, an
expelled Scotch Mason." Yes, th~s Scotchman incorporated . his
institution in Idaho, and came to Z10n to operate, and he certamly
is successful in separating the unwary and the uninformed from
their coin. Why not revive for these present-day fakers, that most

32

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

appropriate title which was applied to the progenitors of this
species of gold-brick vendors? Hughan quotes from the "Atholl
Records" under date of March 4th, 1752, an entry which tells of
the ope;ations of Thos. Phealan and John Mackey, better known
as "'leg of mutton Masons,' for clandestinely making Masons for
the mean consideration of a leg of mutton." "Leg of Mutton"
comes close to telling the story.
Washington:
He thinks there are a few Washington Masons who yet hope
to force a recognition of Colored Masonry upon the white Masons
of the states, and thinks a suggestion in our report on French
Masonry points that way. Far from it. We came into Washingt~n
Masonry just in time to get some of that, and we have no desire
to precipitate the question again. We would, how~ver, fraternally
suggest to ou r good brother, that he get the Washington proceedings for 1898 and read that Committee report, and see whether,
with the heat and rancour all pa&t, it does not command his very
sincere admiration as a truly Masonic paper.
CLUBS
In the various proceedings reviewed there is not as much
criticism against Masonic Clubs as heretofore. From this we
would judge that they have not had the bad effect · that was
anticipated. When properly directed and managed a Masonic Club,
separate · and apart from the Lodge organization, is a benefit to
the Craft, and experience in California at least is demonstrating it.
Alabama:
Grand Master Woolf oracularly declared that Masonic clubs
'properly conducted are most excellent and can prt>duce most beneficent results, but like many other good things, if not properly
handled, on right principles, may be the source of difficulties.'
Aye; there's the rub. What is 'prope.rly conducted' and what is
'on right principles'? The Lodge should be, in addition to its other
functions, a club where Masonic entertainment and instruction can
be had. Other clubs furnish all the loafing facilities as well as
healthful recreations required.
Massachusetts:
During recent years many clubs have been formed, th~ membership of which has been confined to Freemasons. The primary
object of most of these clubs has been to bring the members into
closer social relations with each other. In some cases quarters have
been rented and in a few instances clubhouses have been bought or
built. I am personally a member of some of these clubs, and I
believe that many of them are well serving an excellent purpose.
There is, however, in my judgment, an element of danger to
the Fraternity in too great a multiplying of these clubs and in the
encouraging of any idea that they are to take over or become the
center of Masonic social relations. If Lodge meetings are likely
to be the mor.e looked upon as occasions only of degree conferring
and Lodges as degree factories, so to speak, then the club idea becomes a distinct menace to the effectuating of the true purpose and
intent of our order. If ~uch club membership prompts a less fre•

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

33

quent attendance at Lodge meetings or a less cordial support of
Lodge work and activities, then it becomes harmful and hot helpful.
There can be no doubt that in recent years due attention to the
social and fraternal relations of the members has been neglected in
many of our L odges and has resulted in a natural turning to club
association as a means of closer fraternal intercourse. The large
number of candidates now being admitted and the time and effort
required of the officers to confer the degrees have fre quently left
all too little time, strength, and inclination on the part of the _officers of the Lodges to properly promote the welfare and happiness
of the Lodge members.
West Virginia :
I have never been able t o understand why everythi ng carried
on in a Club could not be done equally well in a Lodge. If the
Club is engaged in research work, that can and ought to be done in
an open Lodge. If the purpose is to frolic, that ought not to be
allowed anywhere. As I see it Club meetings will weaken, and
ultimately destroy Lodge meetings. As I understand it, nothing is
allowable under the name of Masonry, except Masonry itself. Is
a Masonic Club a Masonic institution? If not, what is it, and
what's it for? If it is for social Masonic purposes, w h y not hold
the meetings at t he regular sessions and pull off the s tunts under
the head "Good of the Order?"
W isconsin:
Most of our lately-built Masonic Temples are provided with
clubrooms for the use of the members. I have been asked this
question: "Where a Lodge has fitted up the lower floor of it s
Masonic Temple as clubrooms, with pool and billiard and card
tables, is it permissible to allow games to be played on Sunday
afternoon?"
I replied to t his inquiry by stating that I could not find anything in our Constitution, Laws and Edicts directly bearing upon
this subject, and added as follows:
"It does n ot seem to be within the power of the Grand Master
to determine the question raised, but I have no hesitancy in giving
you my unofficial opinion on the subject and such as I would rule
were I authorized to decide the point.
"Page 60 of our Masonic Law and Edicts has the following
prohibitive law : 'No communication except for conducting a
Masonic funeral shall be held on Sunday.'
"Our Grand Lodge, therefo re, has taken the position that
Sunday is a Masonic sacred day. It has also declared that 'The
duty devolves upon every Mason • • • to preserve the reputation of the frate rnity unsullied. If the conduct of an individual
member tends to bring Masonry into disrepute or to injq_re the
institution, such conduct is un-Masonic and should not be allowed
to remain unnoticed.'
"I regard as contrary to Masonic tenets and t eachings any
practice by Masons in a building dedicated to Masonic purposes
which would result in desecrating the Sabbath-a day upon which
a Lodge cannot even exemplify our beautiful degrees-and I should
personally condemn as derogatory to Masonry the practice of
permitting games of any kind o n a Sunday in clubrooms owned
by a Lodge, or that are in any way connected or associated with
I .odge activities.''

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

CORRESPONDENCE
Correspondence Report3, if they serve no other purpose, can
be a "Thing of beauty and a joy forever" to the Correspondence
Committee of a Grand Lodge. They at least must read them.
It s .t o be regretted that the Reports are inaccessible to practically
all of the craft, being found only in the Grand Lodge Libraries.
They could be used more by the Masonic Press as a source of reference. If this was done, perhaps some of the extravagant statements that are given general circulation would be omitted. The
members of a Correspondence Committee by reason of their creation are given a great privilege in' being put in close touch with
the .thought of Masonic world through these reports. This more
than compensates the compilers for the work they must do to prepare them.
Colorado:
Record us as a most strenuous kicker when it is short-sightedly
proposed to confine such writers to bare reporting without com:
ment. Personally we learn more from the Correspondence report
than from business proceedings.
District of Columbia:
One paragraph, quoted from California, says: "In my judgment, the report of the committee on foreign correspondence is
matter for home consumption. Nearly 95 p·er cent of those who
read the report of this committee on correspondence are members
of California Lodges, and it is needless to say they are not vitally
interested in the small details that go to make up a very large proportion of the reports of the several States."
We question his 95 per cent, as well as his wisdom. Our purpose is to tell our "home consumption" in an abridged report what
the Masons in other States are doing. Maybe, if you had a quartet
of high-degree Masons who would whitewash the fourth degree of
the Knights of Columbus, we might wish to keep this dainty
morsel for "home consumption."
Florida:
As we conceive it, the Report on Correspondence is designed
to serve as a sort of postgraduate course in the School of Masonr.y,
and its p_urpose. i~ to. give the in~ividual Masons of one lbcality
accurate mformat1on as to the achievements and accomplishments
in other localities. For many years past, some few of the Correspondence writers have achieved fame as Masonic Jurists, both
interjiJrisdictional and local.
Notwithstanding a firm resolution never to deviate from the
landmarks or suffer them to be infringed, we find that Masonry has
taken many forms in different Jurisdictions; and that no two of the
States of these United States are exactly alike. We believe that
the Correspondence writer should point out the differences between
the various States, and in all matters where interstate law can be
arranged so as to be fraternal and just to all, that it should be the
duty of the Correspondence writer to use his utmost endeavors to
produce such a result.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

35

To present a review of the <loin
f h
.
woduld become uninteresting and staf: ~ithoeu~anous Gbrland Lodges,
an at the same time pointin
t h
.
reasona e comment,
that certain Grand Lodge v g. ou f w erem the rule and customs of
The work of the Corres ardes rom .som~. or possibly all others.
task, but it has its joys a~dbe~~fiets~nter is a hard and exacting
Idaho:
It is a notorious fact that a r
· · d
writers largely by the way his 0~~rbis Jd ledd by ~orrespondence
are no exception to the general rule. ran
ge is treated. We
Kentucky:

°

Th~ proceedings of the various G d
.
the reviewer's comm~nt The . . han Lodges offer little for
the low level of Iegislati~n whl~hsi~n \hem a sbmeness that reaches
all institutions of a dem~cratic ch ra
to he comme?ded. Like
been too much and too ire uent ch arac ~r, t ere has m the past
The Masonic leg:islator of fhe past anbgC:
m !the laws <;>f the Order.
0 vious Y was neither a Mede
nor a Persian.

r

North Dakota:
We endorse the following. f
h
Correspondent:
rom t e report of the Fraternal
I wonder just how many brethr
d h
ternal Correspondent. I wonder if thn rft t e report of the Fraand the expense to the Grand Lod
.e e ort of the Correspondent
d~me to the membership. The rca!i~ is warranted by the real good
give a much wider knowled e and h'g even <;>f,my poor effort must
to any brother who will taife th t' igher opinion. of the institution
e 1me to peruse 1t.
Quebec:
If the work of the Masonic R ·
·
task is not an easy one To k' ev1ewer is !horoughly done the
most important parts o.f the fif~m, tever so lightly, over on!)! the
Lod~e proceedings passing annurll· o seventy ".olumes ot Grand
considerable time, and the writer h~s t~ftoug7 his ~ands, requires
devote several evenings to the conte t
en <?und 1t necessary to
of the new questions raised le islati° s of a smgle report. Many
<l.ecisions reported, call for 'mu~h th~n hroposed or discussed and
~ion of opinion which though oft ug t and the careful expresJect to criticisrr{ and approval thusenffbu~_Personal, is alwan subtion, usually accompanied by 'a I a or mg some food for reflccthe case and always based upon ~he:rr sta1\emfent of every aspect rif
s!udy ,and experience. None but th esu oh more or less reading,
viewers chair can form any idea of ose "'. o have filled the Reeven afte_r one has familiarized him tpfe t~he and labor required,
Reports, m order to prepare in conci~e d_1t ~hb contents of the
o!Ile of what is best worth '1earnin f~ an rea a le form_. an epits1on <;>f, what seems to call for criti~is om th~m and a fair discussurp_n smg, perhaps, that a few of the
It is not, therefore, very
deali.ng much less thorough! with
ewer men at the work are
pas?mg through their hands Y touch. the volumes of Proceedings
topics attracting their attention andng u?.on only a few of the
convey to the brethren of their r~s
. ma m.g !JO. effort at all to
survey of the condition of Ma
pe~t1v~ Jur1s?1ct1ons a reasonable
world. The · saving of time a~~n~~o~blt ~ various countries of the
e is not always the reason

rr;;

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

given for lessened efficiency of work .in this direction. Some Reviewers as we have already indicated, affect the belief,-unfounde<l
as we believe it tO be,-that a general Review of the conditions of
Masonry in sister Jurisdictions is not read. Our own experience
does not bear out this belief, and it is certain that the readers of
purely 'topical reports' as those of the new style Grand Lodge Reviewers are called by their writers, are deprived by them of a
source of very wide information concerning the Masonry of sister
Jurisdictions.

and t~os.e who. have . discussed the subject have given reasons for
that d1~like which go. b~yond the mere question of the Reviewer's
convemence, or pa.rt1ahty for another form. One of th e str.on
rea~ons suggested 1s that the topical fo rm of report does not giv~
a picture of Masonry as reflected in t he Proceedings and hence
fails of the true end of a Report on Correspondence. To ou r mind
a .s~ronger reaso~, b ut one closely akin to that is that in dealing
bit most quest1?ns tha.t are . widely discussed, the Reviewer is
. elated, . In wa1tmg until subjects have become of wide µresent
mter~s~, m order to reflect by his reflections the preva ilin
trend
of opm10~, he has lost his opportunity-,.as well as failed of correspond.ent s real dut:y- to be in at ~he first, to discover t he outcrodpmgs _of re volut10 n~ry an~ destructive tendencies, or doctrines,
af Mto ra.1se t~e. warml!g voice and endeavor to set the current
? . aso~1~ op1mon, which .may have p een deflected by surround11ng kc9nd1t1ons or the allurmg propositions of enthusiasts within
iac mto proper channels."
'

36

Texas:
The ignorance or laziness of some members of the round table
is certainly phenomenal and leads to the saying of unkind and
ungenerous things totally foreign to our principles and teaching.
When we do ~ot know, better say nothing until we do know;
then be just in what we say; as well as kind in our utterance.
Unkind statements have been made about Cuba and Mexico, as
well as unkind remarks about several individuals that could have
been easily avoided.
.,
Life is too short for unkindness, especially among the Brethren.
Wisconsin:
Grand Master Clark · (Missouri} characterizes our brother as
not only the Nestor but the Agamemnon of all correspondence
writers. We believe from reports that Nestor was a "wise old guy"
and so Brother Woods may well feel complimented by the r"eference. We are not so certain, however, as to the allusion to Agamemnon, and fear the Grand Master may have laid himself open
to an action of slander. If we remember mythology aright, Agememnon after the siege of Troy, when the loot was being divided,
took as his share of the spoils a certain comely maiden, a sister
of Paris. Now this might have been excusable if Agememnon had
not been a married man. and would, no doubt, have been very
embarrassing when he presented her to his wife on his return to
Greece. She, however, had anticipated his action by having acquired a second husband while he was fighting his nation's battles,
and on his return, she, together with her soul mate, did what the
Trojans had been unable to ·do; that is, gave this redoubtable general a passage to the other world in short order. In what respect
does Brother Woods resemble Agamemnon? We leave it to the
Grand Master to explain.
Vermont has a new writer of Foreign Correspondence who
prepared a report along the lines of a topical review and pointed
out what he claimed to be a superiority of a topical review over .
the form usually presented. We cannot a~ree with our Brother
Darling as to the method pursued being any improvement over
that usually adopted by other reporters. The method is not at all
new and has been tried by many men of superior ability, who have
been unable to employ it satisfactorily. One of the ablest reviewers
the United States has ever had was Brother Joseph R obbins of
Illinois, who for thirty-one years prepared the Correspondence
Repo rt for that Grand L odge. At the earnest solicitation of the
Grand Master of that Grand Jurisdiction, for two years Brother
Robbins prepared his review along the same lines. He did so with
many misgivings and after two attempts, abandoned it. In speaking of the defects of the system, Brother Robbins said:
"It will be seen that, so far as the Correspondent's guild is
concerned, the t opical form of report is very generally disliked,

37

!

CRIMINALS
We are not disposed to condemn a man who has erred and
honestly s~ek~ to atone for it, but we do believe that Masonry has
no pl~ce. in its ranks for such persons. The world judges an
orgamzatt~n by the character of its members, and one unworthy
Brother will cause more comment and unfavorable opinion than
the go~d that w'.11 be accomplished, if we .endeavor to act as a
reform1tory for him.
The popular supposition, which, like most popular beliefs, is
usually erroneous, that "No Mason was ever hanged" has been
e.xtended in the minds of some to cover other crimes. It is a
time honored regulation that a Mason must obey the civil and
moral la"':, and wh~n a man ceases to do that he forfeits his right
to 'Masomc protection, other than to see that he receives a square
deal.
Delaware:
M No h!-lman o~ganization is composed of saints, and the lives of
a.so~1s, hke the hv~s ?f other men, are marred by constant errors of
O~ll}SSIOn and COil11111SSIOn; but w hen . it appears that WC have incorrigible offenders among us, our duty 1s plain.
•
Georgia:
It is the duty of every Mason to stretch forth a hand to he! raise
a fallen brother and to whisper wise words of counsel in his ear P Quit
frequently, however, appeal and remonstrance are made to d~af ear~
ad~ a member of the Craft who has no sense of ob'.igation defies the
e 1cts of . the <;;rand Lodg~ an~ its regulations and by leadin an
m1111~ral hfe. brmgs grea:t .d1scred1t to the fraternity. Such condu~t if
permitted, will not only mJure the reputation of the fraternity but d~ter
many goo~ ?Jen from uniting with us. We should give the erring one
a brothers. treatment and endeavor to .strengthen him that his' feet
may no.t stray from the path of good mto the ways of error But
· · h'
when 111s conduct shows that he has not now and will not h
heart that sense of obligation which makes one a Master M::in:nit i~

38

..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

39

far hetter that he be ~ut off from the Craft that the whole body may
not suffer.

~u~~~~s ~f ~f~_f~olish maiden who marries a rake in the hope of making

Iowa:
In another case Brother Armstrong (Louisiana) ruled that"One who has ..been convicted of felony and served a term in the
penitentiary is not of good report, and no Lodge in this Jurisdiction
has a right to receive such profane's petition."
From which it would seem that Masonry holds out no hope to
\he penitentiary graduate even if he afterwards reforms.

Wisconsin:

Mississippi:
"Does the fact that an applicant for the degrees in Masonry, has
served a term in the State Penitentiary make him ineligible?"
I am unable to conceive of a Lodge in the State of Mississippi
where one coming from the State Penitentiary is able to maintain that
good reputation that is contemp'.ated by this Regulation.
Before a man serves a term in the State Penitentiary there must
first have been a grand jury to pass on his case, and of those at least
twelve members must have voted for a true bill; then he is tried before
twelve men of his own selection, every one o.f whom must say on their
oaths that the evidence shciws him to be guilty beyond every reason· .
able doubt, and to a moral certainty; then his case is reviewed by the
trial judge, and then, if he so desires, the whole matter is passed on
by the Supreme Court. The law gives him the advantage of every reasonable douht, and c'othes him with every presumption of innocence.
This Grand Lodge has always held that a bastard can not be made
a Mason ; and the n1ajority opinion, if adopted, will place the Grand
Lodge in the extremely inconsistent position of holding that being a
bastard (for which the petitioner is in no wise personally or morally
responsible) is a disqua'.ification, while being an ex-convict (for which
he is solely responsible) is not a disqualification.
I certainly think that Masonry would suffer infinitely less from
the few good men (exceedingly few) who might be kept out, than it
would from the reproach that would surely come from opening Its
r!oors to ex-convicts; and therefore I must dissent from the majority
npinion.
North Dakota:
In some instances brethren have taken the attitude that Masonic ·
charity must undertake to protect crimina'.s even though there was no
question of the fairness of the trials and the justice of the verdicts in
the courts. Nothing can moi:e seriously 'prejudice our great fraternity
than the charge that unworthy men are protected by us.
.
·
It is our judgment that whenever a member of the Masonic Fraternity is convicted of a crime he cuts himself off from Masonic relations just as he is cut off from civil rights, and that our laws should
he so amended as to provide that the presentation to a Lodge of a ·
transcript of the information or indictment together with the sentence
of the court will carrv with it, after approval by the Grand Lodge,
expulsion from the fraternity."
During the past year members of Lodges convicted of serious
crimes in the courts of our state and other states, have been before
the bar of Lodges, and be it said to the discredit of Masonry, conviction was not secured in one instance and with difficulty in another."
Prince Edward Island:
The Lodge which admits an unworthy person, in the hope of
making him a good Mason, has as little sense and as little chance of

"Asked by....................Lodge No
'f
· h
· ' . ............,........., 1 a young man who
has served t
is eligible t~ ;~mt~n b~Irof~mtent1ary and ts anxious to join said Lodge,
"Answer: No."
·
We question the soundness of this last rulin
Th

~;Ji} ~~~ld b~~k~o~v~~~~h; 11 ~~=~~ed I~ t~ld t~~ penlte~~i:i~~ ~h~

in
for which convicted lf
· d ·f
a
ept;n s upon the offense
tude, it should reje~t hi~onvT~!r o an offense mvolvmg moral turpiare punished severe!
.d
e are many statutory offenses which
debarred from petitii~in~n fo:u~;e ~~~~e~~. would not necessarily be
DISPENSATIONS
W.ith w~r conditions passed, undoubtedly the number of dispensations ~1ven for purposes that were peculiar to that time will
cease. ~htle they are necessary at times, still a review of the
Proceedings sho~s that in a number of cases the Grand Masters
have not appreciated the power which is delegated t th
and
the harm that can be done by the promiscuous use of ~t em,
Connecti~ut:
.
.
It is with pleasure that we again quote from the sa
"
me source:
S I ~ave refused requests. for dispensation to work the degrees
on un ay, to accept a candidate under age
d
h h
a bohdily member essential to the practice of o~~ ri~~se wW<?th ad losdt
to t e last two cases I am of the opinion that h .
I
regar
t~at a Grand Master can neither add a year tot ey ar,e on a par,
dispensation or in like manner supply a bodil da tir_n<,tn s ageAby a
Sunday work in th I d
· · 1
Y e c1ency.
s to
letter of our instituetioon ~~d1\/5w~ e:;!Y, contrary to the spirit '!nd
?f the fraternity unsullied' in this partic~la~r!see~vee Jhe beputat10n
e to e careful
m the use of our lodge rooms on this d ' If
ourselves we must respect our principles.~Y·
we are to respect
Idaho:

t~i1t0:'~i;!~~:T~£i;sbbe~~~/~~'.J~~at;eJ~i~~nenotf ~heth;~t~f:~da~0 ~~~

that the desire to hurry men ethr~~hr~h~trdngly of tFeMconvictio.n
born of a misguided ambition.
egrees o
asonry is
It is certainly a good thing for Ma
· h·
the war was not prolonged Had .t
~onry 111 t is country that
become demoralized This. Grand I Mconttnued Masonry would have
~ions were granted by his predecessoa:ter .s~ys t~at ma ny dispensatni< t~e ballot and permitting the con~~~i~~g ;f~hebJfo~e s~reAad­
prent1ce, Fellow Craft and Master M s
d
n ere
pmunication, and also waiving the le~t~~ e.grees at the same comhundred and seventy-three dispensatio~~ i~· i;any cases. Thr~e
11nusual nature, and yet we call this Masonry. e e granted of this

40

REPO.RT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New Mexico:
Just why the masters of consti.tuent lodges should a.sk Grand
Masters to violate a law for them 1s not clear to the writer. The
demands of men in the service we~e ~sually m~t as they should
have been. but in the o rdinary m~n s hfe !here .1~ no reason why
he cannot wait thirty days for act10n on his petition and a month
between degrees.
Oregon:
A large number of dispensations have been issued durinir !he
year many requests upon other grand jurisdictions for conferring
degr~es by courtesy have been approved. and much courtesy work
has been authorized, but the details of all this concer~ . only the
lodges cHrectly involved, and it would be of no gene~al interest .to
the· craft to enumerate such matters here. Only this do I desire
to comment upon here :-Numerous requests have been made for
dispensations shortening stat?tory tim~ . bet.ween degrees so '.ls to
pt"rmit the candidate to exped1t<'. his .oetttton for the S?-called higher
degrees. Having been honored. "."1th .every Ma~oi;1c deR'.ree that
can be attained bv voluntary pet1tton, a.nd appreciat.mg as I do the
beauty of all of them. I trust t~<t;t I will no.t. be misunderstood as
criticizing the desire and amb1t10n to petition for such further
degrees.
Vermont:
The largest number of candidates apply for admission to the
lodge during military age and the attent10n of man:\:" young men
has been suddenly called to Masonry. by the draft. which has taken
them from their homes. place<il them m new a_nd different surroundings and especially among strangers·. Th!s ha~ ~roug~t great
pressure upon Grand Masters to waive the time w1thm which they
may be made Masons. In some few instances Grand Masters h:ive
declined to waive these provisions but in mos! cases such a.ppltcations have been granted whenever necessary m order. to give the
younir men an opportunity to be initiated. Th<: pr<1;ct1c~ has ~e~n
so enlarged during the last two years as to bnng. 1t fairly within
the scope of War measures. As ·such Masons. will generally av-.
prove the practice; but this is one of the practices that should be
treated as incident to the War. The Grand Masters should so
recoirnize it and now that the War is ov.er, we shoul~ r~turn to
the regular procedure. The prop~r selection of material 1~ ne_ver
to . be overlooked. One bad T,l1an m Masonry can hurt the institution more than a dozen R'.OOd-men can oyercome. Abu?~anc~ <?f
time and opportunity to look over i:1ateri~l before rece1v!ng it IS
a great prbtection and, although at times 1t works hardships, now
that the War is over we should return to our formeT rules.
Wisconsin:
We cannot quite see things from his viewpoint in his discussion
. of dispensations. H e says:
"A dispensation is merely the me.a ns whereby a . Grand Master
permits himself to violate the law a~d t.o escape without c;ensur~.
What is the sense of having .constitutions. and by-lav.:s 1f their
prov;sions are to be made subiect to the will and caprice of one
man?"

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

41

Our brother's logic is faulty here and this is one of the subiects on which . we expect to see him change his views as time goes
hy and mature reflection takes place. The Constitution of most
Grand Lodges in express terms delegates to the Grand Master the
dispensirig power. It is recognized that a certain rule should be
observed but that exceptional cases occur where someone should
have authority to ·mitigate the strict requirements of the regulation
and so a discretion is by the constitution and by-laws given to the
Grand Master to act in these· emergent and exceptional cas es.
11 ow such action can be deemed a violation of the law, or how any
censure should be attached to a Grand Master for acting in a case
where the Constitution itself says he shall act, we are unable to
conceive.

DUES
We believe that dues should be large enough to take care of
the charities of the Lodge, provide en~ertainment for its members,
and meet its obligations to the Grand Lodge. The tendency in
some Lodges is "to lay up treasures in Heaven" by accumulating
a large surplus, while in others it is just the reverse. Unfortunately
the idea that Masonry is a benevolent association has become quite
common among the unthinking, and too many join with that idea
in mind. They naturally expect to get something for nothing,
which is the true basis of a fraternal order insurance. The
insurance field is dotted with the graves of this class of companies
who have tried to "buck" the law of supply and demand.
Iowa:
lt is . no use for members of individual lodges to complain at
the extra burden of a dollar or two per year in the matter of dues.
The responsibilities of the fraternity must be met. The newcomer
who pet.itions a Masonic lodge in this day and age of the world, is
purchasing a valuable asset. He is becoming a partner in an
already established and highly organized institution, and he should
not complain at being compelled to pay the price which is asked.
But ·the facts do not justify the position that a high fee keeps
men out of the lodge.
Nor will the argument that a reasonably high fee keeps the
man of small means from joining the fraternity hold water. Tt is
not so. ·Human nature again enters into the equation, and while
an increase~ fee may deter. some for a time, yet eventually, ii a
. r eal desire 1s there, the fee 1s saved up, and the satisfaction of the
member in his new affiliation is increased accordingly,
New Mexico:
We have always contended that Masonic degrees were worth
all tha! was asked for them. Any cut rate, in our opinion, is unMasomc. We should all be on the same level.
New York:
Freemasonry is not a necessity, but a luxury, and any man
who really wants to join the Order will not let an additional ten
do llars or twenty dollars prevent him from making application.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Carolina:
Under California, referring to the minimum Lodge dues being
nine dollars, he says:
"That would make some of the Brethren in New Hampshire
squirm, were that done here. We are by no means inclined to
display any wickedness when we add that personally we would
love · to see them squirm. If Freemasonry is worth anything in
terms of money it is worth that which will permit Lodges to carry
our fraternal principles and obligations."

In the light of modern development and the rapid pace a t
which woman has advanced, she has in practically all respects
referred to by that speaker taken her place as the equal of man.
The only remaining accomplishment is that she should be admitted
to membership in th.e Masonic lodge. It is my opinion that her
entrance into our organization would elevate and adorn t he Fraternity, for in all things woman has touched, she has added grace
and charm and goodness. Our Order being devo ted to th e development and cultivation of the highest impulses of the hu man heart
and soul, her assistance would materially aid us in the work we
are trying to perform.

EASTERN ST AR
The Nineteenth Amendment is now a law. Who can tell but
what Masonry will be the next fortress to be stormed? We·understanu there is in one of the large cities in this State an organization
known as "Co-Masonry," which was conceived by Mrs. Anne
Besant. One lady informed a good Brother that she already had
received her third degree, and hoped to get her 32nd shortly.
While Masonry as an inst;tution cannot succumb to the pursuasions of the fair sex to the extent of giving them a full partnership, still as an auxiliary for good the Order of Eastern Star
has a great value. Its interest in the Masonic Homes in thd
various States alone would justify its existence. We believe the
time is fast approaching when Masonry should form its sons into
an organization from which its future members will come. In
such an event the assistance of the Eastern Star would be of
inestimable value.

South Dakota:
Brethren, I am proud of the fact that the Grand Lodge A. F .
and A. M. of South Dakota was the first to recognize a Grand
Chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star and to exchange greetings at the time of their annual session. In the past many Grand
Masters have been opposed to it, mostly because of a lack of
understanding, and many have heen opposed to it because they
have not tried to understand it, but the vast majorit y of well
informed Masons have now been converted to the belief that it is
the best thing that has ever come to Masonry. Times have changed
during this commercial age, "and like all bodies of men the Masonic
Lodge needed some influence other than the symbolic teachings
that are told in their lodge rooms. From a fraternal standpoint it
is an assistance in uniting the entire household in one bond of
sympathy and love for fellow beings." The Order of the Eastern
Star has strengthened Freemasonry with the tender love, charity
and forbearance of our mothers, wives, sisters and daughters. It
has been noted that when chapters of the Order are m ost prosperous th e lodges are most active.
Since the dawn of civilization, Masonry with its principles of
true manhood, has withstood the test of censure and criticism. and
as stated before, stands today the leader among fraternal societies.
By the laws of that ancient institution wome n are not eliQ:ible to
its degrees. It is not difficult to discover why. When Masonry
was founded women occupied a, far different position in the world
from that which they now occupy. They were considered inferior
to man in every sense. They were not admi tted to councils of
church or state. E ven in the home their position was a men ial one.
When the Almillhty created the universe it took Him. so we
are told, only a few days to discover that it was not well for a man
to be alone. It took tho. Masons several thousa nd years to arrive
at the same conclusion. The closing years of last century intro- ···
duced to the world a new era in woman's work, and while she
stands out prominently in other fields of usefulness, she now occupies a position of great helpfuln ess in Masonic circles,

42

New Hampshire:
Having heard a Masonic speaker suggest, in a speech, that he
could see no reason why women should not be admitted to Masonic
degrees, the Grand Master restrains himself by merely saying that
'"old things are passing away."
It looks as if Mississippi was peculiarly close to the 0. E . S.
The Grand Master openly proclaims that every Grand Master·
ought to attend the convocation of that body, also, that "'they can
teach us a tew things."
North · Carolina :
Woman has no place in our lodges, no access to our Altars;
and do we deny to her the consolations of religion? The thought
is an absurdity. But why is the lodge closed against woman? For
the reason that the work of the lodge is not suitable to the position
she holds in society. When her nature, and the views ot men are
so changed that woman shall have a place in our legislatures, and
officiate ·:in our courts of law, when she shall wield a trowel on the
builder's scaffold, take part in the sailor's stern strife with wave·
and tempest, or follow the war drum to the field of battle, then
may it be proper to open the lodge for her receptio n. It can not
be that woman is rejected from fea r for the safety of our mysteries,
when we so willingly confide to her keeping our hearts, and our
homes.

43

Virginia:
Later on they (N. D.) called to refreshment an d officia lly
received three fema le officers of the Order of the Eas tern Star.
In a sense it is not, and in a higher sense it is our business. Tolerating or even approving the existence of the order is one thing,
but official cognizance of any organization other than straight
Masonry is unwise.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

West Australia:
We have always understood that the standing of any Mason
was one of the secrets of the Craft and should not be divulged to
anyone outside. In Florida they think differently, as they have
adopted the following regulation:"The Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge and the secretaries
of the particular Lodges are authorized and directed to furnish to
the officers of the Grand Chapter of the Order of the Eastern
Star and to the secretaries of any of the suborilinate Chapters of
the 0. E. S., upon proper application by them, information as to
the standing of any Mason who is, or may have been, a member
of any of the Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction, which may be
necessary for the purpose of obtaining membership in that Order.
1918."
We cannot see what it has to do with any outside body
whether a Freemason is in good standing or not, and if the latter,
the least the brethren could do would be to preserve that excellent
Masonic virtue-Silence.
Another strongly urges the claims of the social side of
Masonry. "Interest the ladies, that is, entertain them, and at
the same time interest them in the work of Masonry," he advises.
To which one feels inclined to reply in the words of a character
in a play· written by a former Judge of this State : "Well-erum-perhaps-yes, that is-um-no,-er.:._maybe,-ah-well, perhaps I"

Kansas: N othing other than the district meetings which in
our judgment advances the propo sition of Masonic education tu
the fullest practical extent.
Kentucky: We educate, clothe and feed our 365 children, a1so
teach each child some trade. Are preparing to b ui ld $1,000,000
Hume for our work. Have $8000 already paid and subscribed.
Maine: In the attitude of modern hysteria-nothing. In endeavormg to teach its members, new and old, honesty, integrity,
devotion to country and to civic duty and usefulness, we hope and
trust that we have accomplished m uch.
Mississippi: State districted and thoroughly organized for an
educational campaign in line with that proposed by the National
Masonic Service Association.
Nebraska : Our Grand Lodge has taken no steps relative to
Masonic education, further than at Schools of Instruction and
Central Schools that are held throughout the ' Grand J uris diction.
Affiliating with the Masonic Service Association of the United
States.
Nevada : Lodges have study clubs in many cases. This plan•
is encouraged. Addresses are made by G. M., P . G. M.'s and other
Grand Officers along helpful educational lines.
New Hampshire : Alliance with the Masonic Service Association with intent to use its educational program.
New York: A committee of five known as the Committee on
Educational Service. · M. W. Townsend Scudder, Chairman, has
this in charge.
North Carolina: No organized effort, except t h rough the
Masonic Service Association.
North Dakota: The best and most effective Grand Lodge
Library (not the largest) in America. An enthusiastic supporter
of the Masonic Service Association. Our Masonic "minute men"
· are on the job. We propose t o have Masonic speakers in every
lodge this y ear ; $1000 appropriat ed for the ,work.
Ohio: Ni;ine as a Grand Lodge, but numerous study clubs
are in existence in various cities.
South Carolina:: Our Grand Lodge decided to become a member of the Masonic Service Association. The Grand Master has
announced that he will appoint a committee of about on e hundred,
who are to carry the message of the Masonic Service Association
to the constituent lodges as occasional speakers and lecturers.
This committee being too large to meet for consultation and being
composed of members scattered all over the state, the Grand
Master selected four members of th is committee as the "Central
Committee" of t he Masonic Service Commission. These four are
to meet from time to time, and plan th e work and activities of
the committee of one hundred, and if necessary, prepare bulletins
or circular letters to mail out to t he members of t he committee
of one hundred. In this way we shall be able to put ac ross whatever program the M. S. A. develop s.
South Dakota: Going to act through the Masonic Service
Association.
Tennessee: District lecturers.
Utah: A Committee on Masonic Education and I nstruction,
appointed by the Grand Master. Commencing with last year they

44

'Wisconsin:
The Order of the Eastern Star informed the Grand Lodge
that it would undertake the erection of a Masonic Home. The
Eastern Star appears to be to the Masonic Homes of the United
States what the Ladies' Aid is to the average church. It does a
large part of the work and takes but a small amount of the credit.
EDUCATION-MASONIC
The Craft generally are demanding something more than "lip
rervice" in this line. Most of the Jurisdictions have awakened to
this fact and have or are taking, steps towards that end, This will
be noticed from the answers made by the various Grand Secretaries
to our questionnaire, the result of which is contained in this report.
A" que~~i.onnaire was sent to all the Grand Secretaries containin' ·the followin1(question: "What steps hwe bP.~IJ. taken in your
Jur"sdi.tt'oti relafve to Ma!'onic Education?" . · The following is a
summary of'"the ,teplies received:
.. .
.
Alabama: ·. Ma."n:Y lodges have (monthly) ledtires delivered by
competent brethren. Also a member of Masonic Service Association.
Connecticut: None, except '"hat has been done by a few
constituent loc!ges.
Delo.ware: A Grand Instructor visits all the lodges in the
,iurisdic:tion, an.d holds lodges of instruction in Wilm.ington weekly
from November to May.
Illinois.: To appoint and commission more · than 300 'Grand
Lecturers.

45

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

had lectures prepared by some of the best students in Masonry
in the jurisdiction, and sent copies to each lodge to be read to
the members. This plan proved both interesting and instructive.
West Virginia: We have a Grand Lodge Educational Fund
out of which we contribute .to assist in the education of the children
of Mas·o ns.
Wisconsin: We have an efficient Committee on Masonic
Research which publishes documents and furthers Masonic study.
Manitoba: The forming of clubs in all lodges.
British Columbia: In the larger centers courses of lectures on
Masonic subjects are given by brethren of standing and ability.
Nova Scotia: A committee appointed to consider the advisability of publishing a Masonic journal.
Prince Edward Island: Grand Secretary and Grand Lecturer
visited the several lodges exemplifying the work, explaining its
symbolism and the moral instruction each part is intended to convey. The Grand Secretary also delivered addresses and lectures
on Masonic subj-ects· in several of the lodges.
,
Republic of Mexico: Tentative steps to establish Masonic
study clubs have been taken.
Colorado:
The Committee on Masonic Research reported and the following
practically covers the recommendations adopted :
"Master Masons ·can be divided into three classes: First, the
individual student who has the time and inclination to pursue serious
study, prompted by a sincere desire for more light. Second : The
members who can be aroused to sufficient interest to take part in and
support a study movement. Third: The indifferent member who ,will
listen to what he hears, but will take no part in the plan or evmce
any interest.
"It would seem that, in view of the foregoing, the best plan for .
starting this movement would be to have sets of lectures compiled by
competent writers of our own or other jurisdictions, and that these
lectures be,- so. far as is practicable, illustrated with lantern slides, and
that each lecture be furnished with references to standard and recognized Masonic books, so that any of the brethren desiring may read up
on the subject and a full discussion may be had if desired.
District of Columbia:
Under the caption "Florida," he quotes the names of twenty~four·
of the fifty-six signers of the Declaration of Independence as Masons.
We have been searching for evidence on this for the past twenty years,
but we cannot verify. ten.
There were two men named Josiah Bartlet, but the one who was
Grand Master is not the Joe who signed. We cannot prove either of
the Adams. The Library of M:\sonic History, volume IV, is a venture
of Yorston, and, as Brothe·r Sachse says, "It is a pity it was ever
printed." There appears the name of John Adams on the rolls of three
Massachusetts Lodges, either of which would fit John as to time and ,
place, but President John Adams is on record as denying he ever
was a member.
The library committee seems to have the benefit of the entertainment fund-a good plan. It ,is fine to have a library, but it is glorious
to have Masons read the books.

REPORT ON COR RESPONDENCE

4i

He invited attention to the Masonic Journal, which we think a
grand, good move, for if there is anything the average lay Mason needs,
it is Masonic information. The daily newspapers, which are moulding
public opinion, are mostly tainted with Jesuitism.
Illinois:
A report from the Committee on Work (Louisiaqa) is interesting.
In a closing paragraph they remark"We are inclined to deprecate the lodge orator and oratory, but
we think there should be a plain talk given in each of the degrees by
some member of the fraternity in whom a!l have confidence putting
plainl)' .before the candidate the seriousness of his undertaking as a
Mason."
This plan may work all right, but the chances are that it is more
likely to bring disastrous results than to attain the object desired.
There are so few Masons who really understand the fraternity or have
any knowledge of its history, that there is a large chance of much
false information being panned off on the candidate. Just at the
present time there is an epidemic of symbologists who are disposed to ·
connect Freemasonry with all the ancient symbolisms from time immemorial. Some of the dissertations by these symbol cranks are so
weird and wild that they put the tales of Baron Munchausen in the
shade.
The writer is a firm believer in intelligent discourse in Masonic
Lodges, but the problem is to find speakers who have Masonic sense
enough to properly represent the fraternity.
·
An o'r ation delivered by Albert Pike before the Grand Lodge of
Louisiana in 1858 was resuscitated and read by the Grand Master.
The idea is not a bad one. Albert Pike was one of the keenest Masonic
students that the fraternity ever produced. It would be far more helpful to the society to hear read articles from the addresses and wotks
.of men of his caliber than to listen to much of the effervescence which
frequently bubb'.es over in our Grand Lodges under the guise of the
annual oration.
"At the present time there is a great epidemic of this particular
species in the Masonic Fraternity who are panning their wares off ori
the unsophisticated, much to the detriment of the society. * * *
All of this works to the serious injury of the Fraternity, for the reason
that there are in the Society intelligent men who are acquainted with
history and whose common sense tells them that much of the claim
of these symbologists is not only false, but highly ridiculous. * * *
It is the hardest thing in tlie world to get Masons to tell the truth
about Freemasonry. * * * During the past year several Grand
Masters. have called · the attention of their Grand Lodges to the many
pernicious doctrines, that are being peddled by traveling symobologists
and other would-be Masonic oracles and have cautioned the members
of the craft against accepting much of the false material which is
being circulated as the truth. Masonic newspapers are full of articles
dealing with Masorlic symbolism which are misleading in the extreme,
and it is a matter of regret that Masonic censorship of some kind
cannot be established in order to prote!=t our young Masons from being
misled and deceived."
True, but who is there that will set himself up as qualified to be
the censor? And will his taste and j udgment always command respect?

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Indiana:
In this connection also I can not too strongly urge the necessity
of Lodges taking the time to study the fundamentals of Masonry to
the end that the membership may realize that the institution is not a
mere machine for the making of Masons in a formal way, but is a
fraternity that helps to make men better by reason of receiving the
instructions which come to them from the three degrees of symbo'.ic
Masonry. Nor inust we lose sight of the important fact that candidates must be disabused of any impression they may ha.ve that the
Blue Lodge is simply a stepping stone to the so-called higher degrees.
I am in thorough sympathy and accord with both York Rite and
Scottish Rite Masonry, for each Rite teaches beautiful and sublime
lessons, but fundamentally there are no higher degrees than the three
degrees of Ancient Craft Masonry, and we need to impress upon the
brethren the necessity of not only mastering these degrees, but a!so
having them realize their beauty and importance. A brother's obligation
to his Blue Lodge is in no wise minimized by vi~:ue of his membership
in any of the Scottish Rite or Yoke Rite bodies or in the Mystic Shrine.

brethren will become leaders of the collective thought of the Lodge
and the inspiration .of its most beneficent work. Their influence will
appear a'.ike in the ritual work of the officers and in the activities of
the Lodge. And perhaps a Gould will spring out of such. a group and
contribute undying literature to his Masonic home.

48

Iowa:
If the Masons of Iowa are not educated in Masonry, it will not
be the fault of the librarian, the Committee on Masonic Research, nor
the need of books, but because they are "constitutionally inert"-which
is "high-brow" for lazy, as their Grand Master says with reference to
some of the officers of the Subordinate Lodges.
Manitoba:
It is the opinion of the Committee on the Condition of Freemasonry
that during the past few years there has been a considerable increase
of interest in Masonic history. The historical and philosophical questions which have recently oq:upied the attention of Freemasons and
which have been freely and extensively discussed in all parts of the
jurisdiction, have proved valuable in a number of ways. It is safe· to
say that more has been done during the last three or four years in
stirring up interest that at any time since our establishment was a
Grand Lodge. Scores of members are pursuing the study of Masonry
with great pleasure and profit. This study is carried on not as a matter
of antiquarian curiosity, but in a proper spirit of critical enquiry which
is bound to result in a revaluation of the purposes of Masonry in our
own country and elsewhere. Young men who are now entering Masonry
are in a position to receive definite instruction and to form clear ideas
upon certain phases of Masonry which received but scant attention in
earlier days. This circumstance is likely to have its influence upon tlie
future development and direction of Masonic activity.
Personally I should like to see each candidate be the recipient of
some concise up-to-date treatise on Freemasonry similar to the one so
used in the Grand Lodge of Iowa, compiled by Brother Fort Newton.
The future of Freemasonry is closely connected with and depends much
upon a uniform programme of education, and if we are to keep abreast
of new conditions and new ideals our Masonic thinking must be stimulated and vision enlarged. I trust that for the coming year definite
action in this regard may develop in all our Lodges.
A lively interest in the history and traditions of Masonry will
perhaps be limited in each Lodge to a small company of men, but these

49

Michigan:
While the condition is existent and dep'.orable, the brethren are
not entirely to blame. Most Masonic books and articles are profound
and unmeaning, or dry and uninteresting, or grandiloquent and inexact.
Many writers, particularly those who complain, have not generally
appreciated that great thoughts may he p'ainly stated, facts may be
clothed in pleasin~ garb, and fine lan°uage and truth are not inseparable. My own experience has bet;n that the brethren everywhere are
greedy for Masonic knowledge and information, if clearly presented.
New York:
It is not my purpose to draw any unjust distinctions, hut it is a
fact that any movement looking toward the improvement or betterment
of the Craft meets with more opposition in the country districts than
in the city communities.
Of course, we have the carper, the knocker, the constitutional
obstructionist in all sections, and from· wherever he hails, he becomes
a hindrance to our progressiveness, a drag to every effort made to
better conditions, and did it ever occur to you, tha't those very same
knockers often become the recipients of the very charity they most
opposed?
North Carolina:
If there were just some way to weed out all the fool fables
which often render ridiculous the noble Order of Masonry, it would
be better for the standing of the Fraternity. No fault should be
found with the allegorical teachings included, but wheu orators
of supposed intelligence gravely tell the gullible multitude at Masonic picnics and on other public occasions that Masonic Lodges
were in operation before the Deluge, that our present Ritual has
been handed down from the days of King Solomon, that there has
never been a President of the United States who was not a Mason,
that all Signers of the Declaration of Independence and all Generals in the Arl1jl.y of the Revolution were Masons, except Benedict
Arnold (who by the bye, was a Mason) it is enough to make an
Egyptian mummy laugh. The writer once heard a much traveled
visiting brother seriously declare in a Lodge in Raleigh that he
had visited Lodges in India which had records running back six
thousand years-in other words, these Lodges worked many centuries before Adam and Eve were created. Ananias and Baron
Munchausen were paragons of veracity if compared with that
brother.
North Dakota:
Masonry was built upon the foundation stone of equality and
the history of Masonry' proves that equality finds its best expression in the democracy of American ideals. Masons have. throughout history been leaders in thought and action. Masons must now

I
50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

help others to do clear 'thinking and face in a rational way the
great problems of peace and reconstruction.
The history of Masonry might be reviewed in three steps.
The ·first step is that of the early mysteries from which Masonry
sprang; the second, that 'of operative Masonry, actual workers in
stone and nrnrtar; the third is that of Speculative Masonry, the
organized, ~ystematic Masonry of today. Individualism marked
the first step. The novice who learned the early mysteries did so
for selfish purposes, to gain a personal advantage. The second
step was largely materialistic. The idea of mental and moral improvement entered in but it was confined to the Lodge, confined to
the members. In the third and last step altruism controls. We
Masons of today have learned that our responsibilities are not
restricted to the four walls of the Lodge in which we meet; but
that we owe duties to our fellowmen in every walk of life; that
we owe duties of uplift and social service; that as true men and
Masons we must do our part in the great work of making this old
world a better place to live in. This is J,1art of the mission of
Masonry today. It is a mission of education, a mission of brotherhood, a mission of peace.
Oregon:
We are sorry conditions suggested this:
"Recommendation: Establish a method of Masonic instruction and education throughout all of the constituent Lodges to
the end as designed by the lectures of the different degrees, the
ritual a'n d ceremonies through which the candidate has passed
may become and be intelligent to him and the brethren.
"Recommendation: Neglect of the young Mason and the entire
absence of Masonic educational facilities induces waning interest
among members and small attendance in Lodges and prevents the
growth of healthy Masonic minds.
"Masonry in Oregon is now the slave of form and ceremony, ·
the creature of too much law and regulation, and the cringing
instrument of self-interest. Ignorance begets imprudence, indifferences and neglect impair its vigor and the misuse and abuse of
the ballot destroy its fraternity.
"The revival must come from the Masters and the Wardens
of Lodges throughout the state, better interest, closer contact with
t.h is Grand Body; we are all too far apart."
Washington:
It should in some way be so planned that the ind-i viduals
who compose our Lodges should be interested in the real purpose
of the Fraternity; should have the fact so forcibly brought to their
attention that it could never be lost sight of, that Masonry is muc1~
more than a ritualistic formula, that its formal lectures "are but
hints to put them on the track of discovering" philosophy of living"
that will be of priceless value to each of them as an individual
Mason.
'
A comprehensive knowledge of the various branches may be
acquired by study of the ritual and by a cotirse of reading selected
by the individual, as recommended by Albert G. Mackey, who
answered an inquiring young brother with, "I know of no course

REPORT ON CORRESPONPENCE

51

that you cou ld adopt to attain that knowledge except th e· one that
has been pursued by myself, namely, to spend your means in the
purchase of Masonic books and your time in reading them.
'Wisconsin:
~he Freemason becomes 5uch voluntarily, and whether he
remarns merel:i; a Lod~e member, contributing nothing but his
dues an.d occas1ona!fy his. presence, or becomes an active agent in
promotrng all the benefic1ent thoughts and actions of one who has
been tried bv the Square, is a matter of vital concern to the welfare of the Craft.

An inve.stigation of the reason for the apathy of such a large

p~rcentage of the members of a Lodge demonstrates that it is

d1.rectly due to lack of comprehension of the philosophy of Freemasonry. In the larger Lodges the degree work seems to be so
pressing that little time is found for an explanation of t he meaning of many things which every Freemason should know, and
because many have no chance to participate in the ritualistic work
they become indifferent and remain away. No one who has ~
comprehensive concep.tion of Freemasonry ever loses interest but
on the contrary as his knowledge p rogresses his interest grows
greater year by year.
It may be found more practical for the Worshipful Master to
delegate the duty of instruction in study matters to some well
qualified brother ?r a number o~ brethren. There is an urgent
need o f a Committee on Masonic Research in every Lodge, to
:-vhom ~he members could look for help in improving themselves
m the literature .of Freemasonry. These committees should organize "st?dy clubs" which might mee! monthly and be extremely
ben~~c1al to the _brethren of ~he locality and to the Craft universal.
Desm!1g the .active co-oper~t1on of every Lodge in this w ork, your
committee will gladly furnish all the assistance within its power.
. It is a well kn.own historical fact that when the American con~rnent was first discovered, some of the early voya~ers who fell
mto .t~e hands of h?sti.le Indians escaped being burned at the stake
by g1vm~ the My~tlc sign known to. the Craftsmen, and were afterwards told by their captors, the deliverance was because they were
t'.lught their mysteries, that the life of the man who m ade such
signs must be respected.
Now, if. our breth,;en will presei:it us with some reliable evidence .of this alleged well known historical fact," he w ill render
a service to the Craft. We have been unable to find any such evidence, although we have looked for it for many years in vain.
EMBLEMS
The wearing of Masonic emblems is a matter that must depend
upon the good taste of .the individual member. Too often the
desire to wear an emblem is the main factor in inducing a man
to join the Fraternity. We wonder what would be the effect if
a regulation was passed prohibiting the wearing of emblemS.
This is the custom. and rule in some countries. Perhaps the

52

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"degree mill" would slacken up. Too many men "tell the world"
they are Masons by buttons and charms rather than deeds.
Montana:
"I am not keen for the perso.nal display of Masonic emblems
and would not accept a man as a Mason were he covered with
them from head to heel.
•
"It seems to me that the teachings of Masonry from the very
day of initiation to the end of life, if practiced and observed, guard
and protect us from imposition of every kind and character, that
we do not need patents and copyrights to protect u.s agains~ ~he
wiles of the clandestine. The very fact that a ma.n. 1s advert1smg
himself as a Masun · should create doubt and susp1c10n, and make
us all the more cautious in our dealings with him."
Nevada:
We do not agree that the ?rother who comes t.o see you,
"decorated with as many Masomc emblems as a soldier may be
with war medals," brings discredit upon Freemasonry. It . depends
upon how the Brother wears them. What a man does is the real
test of what he is, and if he nobly earns the ei;iblems he wears.he
will bring no discredit with them. And when 1t comes to wearing
Masonic emblems, judging from portraits of Gr.and and Past Grand
Masters, none can quite come up to the English Masons.
New Zealand:
It is sometimes said that a Mason should always be given
preference by a Mason-that when there is ~ contest for some post
between one who•is a Mason and one who ts not, thou_gh the nonMason may be the superior in intellect and qualificat10ns for the
position to be filled, still it is the duty of a Mas<;>n who may have
the gift of the office to give the i;>r~ference. to his brother Mason.
I refuse to subscribe to that doctrine. I behe_ve that e".ery broth~r
in this hall tonight believes that a man who 1s. placed in any position of trust, if he desires to be true an? faithful to that trust,
must see that the person who is best quahfie~ for t.he vacant post
gets it, and that it is neither his duty ~or his business to pre.fer
one who belongs to the Craft. If he did so he would be actmg
dishonorably, and if there is one thini;: above all others that a
Mason should be, he must be an honorable gentleman.
Utah:
Button Masons can slip off their Masonry as easily as th~Y.
can detach the emblem from the lapel. It behooves the leaders m
our various Grand Lodges to see to it that the conditions necessary
to growth, to development, are p~ovided, so that an .experience
similar to that set forth in the sixth verse of the thirteenth of
'Matthew may not come to blight and decimate the ranks of the
fraternity.
We looked up his Scriptural reference and found that it reads
as follows: "And when the sun was up, they were scorcher!; an<l
because they had no. root, they withered away."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

5.1

GENERAL GRAND LODGES
While the formation of a general Grand Lodge might appeal
to some as an ideal, still as a matter of fact it could never materialize. There are certain conditions existing in every ·State
which would prevent such an organization.
There is a need for a National body which will not encroach
upon the functions of the Grand Lodges, but can represent the
Fratern:ty generally when it is necessary for it to act along national lines. Some Masonic "prophets" state that there will never
be occasion for Masonry to act nationally, as there will never be
another war, etc. The leading statesmen of Europe believed the
e.ame thing up to within two weeks of the commencement of war
by Germany. Perhaps the general Masonic "seer" is wiser than
they were or are at the present. We are told that there are thirty
separate wars now raging in the world, and we have no guarantee
that some unexpected cond'.tion might not involve the United
States.
If Masonry is to be a factor in the time of a great crisis it
must be prepared, and have an organization to act as a unit. We
cannot function through . forty-nine different Grand Lodges with
Grand Consistories, Chapters, Commanderies or voluntary Associations. Brother George Wash'.ngton ' said, "In time of peace,
prepare for war." Peace has its national questions as vital to the
existence of our country as war, and they must be handled a great
dt>al more intelligently. We believe that the Masonic Service Association prov:des a reasonable solution of this question.
Illinois:
In the period of reconstruction and readjustment which is taking place, Freemasonry should divorce itself from the old idea of
state rights and commence to plan for a unity of purpose. This
can only be accomplished through some sort of central organization; call it whatever .you may. Before Freemasonry is goin!! to
gain recognition as a world force, it must break down the barriers
of jurisdiction which envelop each Grand Lodge and must subscribe to a general platform of basic principles. This does not
mean the formation of any National Grand Lodge, but it does
mean that there is needed a National Council 'of Administration
which shall formulate a plan to which all the Grand Lodges of the
United States may subscribe, and along which they may work for
the best interests of Freemasonry.
Kentucky:
Idaho's correspondence writer, commenting on certain obser"
vations of Grand Master Adams, says: "The trouble is that the
above points in the direction of a Supreme Grand Lodge and such
a proposition could not be entertained for a moment. It might
make Masonry a living force in the world. It might be the means

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of turning Masonry toward the future and make it . t?o ~reat a
power in the affairs of men. No, no, such a proposition 1s rank
~re~"
.
Really, now! Who would have thought 1t?
.
And what forsooth is the evidence that the present impotent,
inefficient, ba~kward-lo~king Masonry· wou~?· if a .Sup~emc: Lodge
were established turn "toward the future?
Hav111g 111 view our
weak point, we ~ait, without trepidation, the production of Brother
Knepper's evidence.

to f.orm an association for the object of affording combined relief
in any part of the country in case of a disaster of greater magnitude than a local calamity, for meeting the instant need of soldiers
and sailors overseas, or for any other similar purpose demanding
immediate or combined action. We heartily wish the movement
complete success, a11d recognize that it could be followed by others
with assured benefit, and we desire to express the hope that the
effect of the association will be that of unifying Masons in relief
work and lead to a more intimate union generally; .there is no
doubt that the principles of co-operation enunciated in the constitution adopted by the association will have a beneficial effect in
many directions.

Maryland:
The idea of a General Grand Lodge finds favor with this Grand
Master and soon or late some provision will be made for a general conference of some sort, whether clothed with authority or
not. We are getting the habit of "getting together" on great p~b­
lic questions and Masonry is taking a larger pa_rt in human affairs
than simply rehearsing the ritual and conferr111g .degrees.. ] ealousy of its own rights will give way to a larger view of life and
duty. We shall get together, outside of the Lodge it may be.

55

1

New Hampshire:
After reading the report of the Committee on the Service Association (West Virginia) we are almost dumbfounded. How any
men could make such a report is beyond us, save only upon the
thought that they had failed to unde~stand the movement. To
our mind it is the greatest and most 1mport~nt move ever .made
hy American Masons. If the movement f~1ls then there 1s no
recourse save a national governing body-without the one or the
other we shall soon drift towards decline and uselessness. We
oppose a governing body of national extent unless that be the
only thing that will save us.
Quebec:
.
A considerable amount of work was undertaken by a committee established in 1917 on the subject of Masonic unity. If its
work proceeds no further than to furnish t~ose w~o h~d not hi.therto given the matter an_y ~tudy,. some. 111terest111g 111formation
regarding different orga111zat10n~ 111 vanous parts of .the world
claiming to be Masonic. but lack111g many of the essentials of the
Craft as we understand them, this work will scarcely have: been
in vain. Considering, however, the vast a!lloun~ of work 111 t~e
world which there is for Masons to ~o at this period of the worl.d s
history, in the different allied countnes, for the benefit of man_kmd
at large, we .ca111:10t ~ut some~hat r.egret the. amount . of w1.shywashiness which 1s be111g sometimes indulged 111 a~ to ~he umversality of Freemasonry. Of course Freemasonry 1s universal because genuine Freemasonry is universally known and understo?d.
But all the bodies who call themselves Masons are not. genuine
Freemasons,' nor yet is that so-calle~ Freemasonry . ~h1ch .lacks
the very essentials of the Craft entitled. to recognition,. simply
because it has taken the name and certa111 of the esoteric work
of the genuine Craft. There is enoug.h of more pre~sing ~ork to
he done in the world today than tak111g up time with this overdiscussed question.
South Australia:
A somewhat new departure in F reemasonry consisted o~ a
meeting of Grand "Masters who unanimously adopted a resolut10n

Virginia :
After their great success, long after the Knights of Columbus
had disarmed all criticism, t he Red Cross and Salvation Army had
become immortal, and the Y. M. C. A. had done the other thing,
the Masons of America tried to butt in, but were ruled out, and
justly so. A great effort was made to start the move just when
it should have been winding up its books in a blaze of glory. Let's
try and do better in post-war relief work. True Masonry in New
Zealand is composed of men of more means, as a general rule,
than is the case with us, but then they se.em willing to let their
Masonry cost them mo re. They contribute vast sums to charity,
and, unless we misread their proceedings. they have a fee for office
holders. We notice that they increased "the fee payable by Grand
Directors of Ceremonies from two pounds, two shillings to three
pounds, three shillings."
Of course Oregon's Grand Master could not get beyond the
third paragraph of his address without saying something about
Masonry becoming a " Federated Unit." It may ha ve been intended
as a softened expression, but as to ultimate result we take it to
mean hope for a General Grand. It will never come, and even
if it should, we 'can name several Grand Lodges that w ill never b e
its subordinates and 'among them will be Old Virginia.
Washington :
Grand Lodge Sovereignty has fallen back a little before th e
continued attacks of the " Central Authori_ty" brethren, in that
many of the Grand Lodges have joined the Masonic Service Association, which is an entering wedge toward general authority. We
do not for a moment charge that it was instituted for that purpose, but, we maintain, it is a step in that direction, and its most
earnest advocates have been, many of them, advocates of a General
Grand Lodge. In 1913 we prophesied the growth of this movement, and we feel that we are being vindicated.
GRAND LODGE PROCEEDINGS
As predicted last year, the H. C. L. had more effect on the
size of Grand Lodge Proceedings than any arguments or suggestions. · Some of the Jurisdictions have omitted the roster of Members. This is of course a hardship to advert ising agencies and
Masons for profit only. Elimination of details regarding Masonic

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

trials and in the names of offenders is to be commended. If we
must wash our dirty linen, let us do so privately.

ence. This is one trouble with the average Masonic library and
explains why it is so poorly patronized. It is because the shelves
are loaded down with irrelevant matter which no intelligent man
is going to waste his time over.

56

District of Columbia:
Here is a splendid action: "T.he report of the Committee on
G.rievances and Aopeals was adopted and o rdered filed and recorded, but not printed in the proceedings."
It is a pity so few Masons read or heed the Grand Lodge
reports. Here the Grand Master is making ;tn earnest effprt to
give live testimony to the 37,000 Master Masons in ·the great state
of Minnesota, many of whom, for want of information, are, prob;ihly. unahle to see any friendlessness in such diplomats as Mr.
Fosdick. The Grand Master offers no advice on this subject to
his 37.000 sovereign constituents, hut leaves the prima facie testimony for their consideration. Will they read it?
A page is given to the Masonic Veterans' Association. under
the caption of "Incidents." It is a nice compliment to the VetPrans. and we are sure the old fellows appreciate it. Old men
love to be noticed, even by babies.
England:
The board has noted with grave disapprobation an increasing;
rendency towards the publication of accounts of proceedings at
Lodge meetings and gatherings immediately connected therewith.
which are a departure from Masonic propriety, and may even lead
to scandalous or improper conduct. In one case which has been
brn11ght to the board's notice, such an account has even been
paid for as an advertisement, a course that is especially objectionable as open to grave abuse; while in o thers, ceremonial descriptions have been printed of such a nature as perilously t o approach
the revelation of Masonic secrets and mysteries. It is earnestly
hoped that the caution now given may suffice to prevent further
abuses of this kind ; but, if it does not, disciplinary action will be
taken in all cases where proof is furnished of the infringement of
Rule 205 of the Book of Constitutions which enacts that "No
Brother shall print or publish. or cause to be printed or published
* * '* anyth ing which by the laws and regulations of Masonry
is improper to be published."
Idaho:
A large number of degrees were conferred for sister Grand
Jurisdictions. All these were recorded and made a part of the
Grand Master's address .. We don't expect to live long but .we
sure hope to live long enough to see such purely statistical and
uninteresting matter relegated to its proper place in the printed
proceedings and not used to mar an otherwise creditable Grand
Master's address.·
Illinois:
The Committee on Library make a report in which the statement is made that the library had been made more valuable by
the addition of the proceedings of several Grand Councils of
Royal and Select Masters of the United States. This writer is
of the opinion that a liberal translation of the above means that
the grand library acquired just so much junk. Proceedings of
grand bodies possess no educational value whatsoever. Their purpose is to put into permanent form transactions for future refer-

57

West Virginia:
The volume of proceedings is very large, made so mainly by
containing a roster of the members of the different Lodges. We
do the same thing in West Virginia. It affords a handy reference
for the brethren, but I have long since been of opinion that we
could get along without it by substituting a card index system.
Texas could save a large sum of money each year by cutting out
the rosters, and · reduce the size of its minutes over o ne-half. We
of West. Virginia could do t he same thing. We have several times
tried to do it, but the brethren like to see the ir names in print,
and they beat us. when it comes to a vote.
Wisconsin:
We regret to note that the Committee on Appeals and Grievances indulges in the bad practice of publishing the names ol
those charged with Masonic offenses, together with a detailed
statement of the offense they are supposed to have committed.
In this connection, we would call attention to t h e fact that these
Grand Lodge reports are all to be found in most public libraries,
'certainly in the Congressio nal Library at Washingt'on, where they
are cons.u lted frequently by the enemies of Freemaso nry, and the
details thus placed· in print furnish ammunition with which they
load their guns in attacks upon our beloved institution. The publication of such details if indulged in outside of Grand Lodge
Proceedings would be held to b e a Masonic offense.
"THE GROTTO"
The chief reason for the organization of other bodies having
as a requirement for admission membership in Masonic Fraternity,
is the failure of the Lodges to interest their members. If the time,
labor and money used in such organizations could be spent in the
work of the Blue Lodge instead of being scattered, the Masonic
Fraternity would perhaps be more practical and instructive.
The remedy for the present state of affairs, we believe, is to
make the Symbolic Degrees so attractive from every viewpoint
that they will not be a recruiting ground for other organizations,
but the place where the members will find their every wish gratified. The millennium may arrive some day.
District of Columbia:
He was obliged for cogent reasons to advise his constituency
not to connect themselves with the Grotto. W hile we think it
better as a rule to ignore all collateral or extraneous o rganizations,
it sometimes becomes essential to notice them. Not a gi-eat many
years ago the Grand Lodge of Co lorado was obliged to disapprove
of the behavio r of some members o f the Shrine. The Grand Lodge
has no lawful control over the Shrine, the Grotto o r Masonic clubs,
and the Grand Master did the wisest thing in asking his m,embers
not to join.

59

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

All this the writer. thinks has come about hy the failure of
lodges to be interesting; by losing sight of the best interest of the
lodge in the election of officers, ignoring the able, influential and
strong members, and electing members to office because it is their
turn. We are all in the same boat.

than that our N otarica already possesses sufficient groups of
initials, an institution which could letter itself T.M.0.0.V.P.O.T.
E.R. should be ruled out, lest the alphabet become bankrupt.

58

North Carolina:
Hats off to the Grand Master of North Dakota for a most
sensible conclusion! Listen:
"During the year we have had some correspondence relative
to this institution, the full designation of which is The Mystic
Order of Veiled Prophets of the Enchartted Realm. We have also
received a visit from Mr. Edwin S. Schmid, Grand Monarch. There
has been some talk of organizing in this jurisdiction. ·
"While the order makes no claim to being Masonic, no one
but Master Masons can become members. Our investigation has
not been ve ry thoroui<h, but we are firmly convinced that there
is alrea.d y enough distraction in Masonrv now, that no good could
con:e t~ Ancient Craft Masonry here, aqd that there is possibility
of infinite harm. We recommend that steps be taken to restrict.
the introduction of this or similar organizations in this jurisdic. tion."
.
.Well s~id! When ~he beautifu_l system of Freemasonry, with
its 1mpress1ve ceremonies anp seriously wholesome teachings, is
made. the ground-work of any kind of grotesque buffoonery, it is
certain that no good can accrue to the Order ; and it is little to
be wondered at that the general public regard our ceremonies as
made up of greased J?Oles for the candidates to climb, billy-goats,
and every other species of tomfoolery that was ever conceived in
the vacant mind of a buffoon.
Utah:
We have not been called on as yet to decide the status of
the 'Grotto' or 'The Mystic Order of Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm' in this Grand Jurisdiction. It is a question that
is before the Masonic Fraternity and one that has met with a
wide difference of opinion. I believe that a committee should be
appointed to investigate this new appendage to Masonry, and be
prepared to intelligently advise relative to its status. In the meantime, I think the Grand Lodge· should place some restriction on
its operations in this jurisdiction.
West Australia:
John, Emerson, one of the big men in the A merican moving
picture world, described one of the States, last year, as an excellent
place if one wanted a " new religion." It seems, judging from Bro.
Reynolds' address, that. there are also States where, if a Mason
wants something new claimed to be Masonic, he can have it while
he waits. Such a thing appears to be an institution, which modestly contents itself with the name of "The Grotto," until it gets
what dear old Sir Thomas Malory called "orgulous," and then it
styles itself "The Mystic Order of Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm." The "Order" makes no claim to be Masonic
beyond insisting that none but Master Masons can become mem~
hers. Bro. Reynolds investigated the "Mystic Etcetera," and recommended that its introduction, and that of similar organizations
he· restricted, and Grand Lodge agreed. If for no other reaso~

GROUP INITIATION
We believe that the first degree, from its effect upon the candidate, is the most impressive one in Masonry. The main objection
that can be urged against Group Initiation is the fa'ct that it
perhaps might detract from its solemnity and the effect upon the
novitiate. This is a matter, however, appertaining to the individual
alone. If he comes to the door of the Lodge in the proper frame
of mind, it will make no difference whether he is initiated with one
or more candidates or by himself. The Jurisdictions which use
this system have produced as many great and good Masons as
those who do not.
The danger that it might be used to "stimulate the degree
mill" could easily be prevented by fixing a period of time that must
elapse between the conferring of each of the degrees on a single
individual.
The time saved could be used by the Lodge for "refreshment
and repose."
Connecticut:
"Our Lodges confer the degrees in ample form on every candidate.
Jn many Lodges the work has ~ecome. appalling. :t-4idnight closing
means dwindling attendance, inferior officers and hurried W?rk. . Why
not have one hold the horns of the goat and the rest gam wisdom
thereby?"
Illinois:
One thing that th.e Gran? Lodg~ of Vic~oria does ~hich ~hows
that it hr1s advanced, 1s that 1t permits groupmg of cand1dat~s m th.e
matter of conferring degrees. Some clay, all Grand L?dges will permit
the conferring of the degrees on. more than one candidate at the same
time, for the reason that men will come to understand Mas?nry be.tter
and to realize that there is something else to the fraternity, besides
the mere ceremonies of making men Masons.
The Grand Lodge of Idaho moved forward when it adopted an
amendment providing for collective work permitting Lo.dges to work
three candidates at a time, in all parts of the degrees with the .exception of the second section of the third. Good for I\iaho, even with the
limited amount of work done by the Lodges, this Grand Lo4ge does not
propose that its constituents shall be"Come mere degree mills.
.
One of ~is ~ecpmmend~ti~ns is tha.t the Grand Lod~e take action
looking to r1tualt~t1c abbreviation. Owm.g to the a.ppalhng amo~?t of
work which is bemg done by the Lodges m Connecticut, he s:iys, . Why
not h;ive one hold the horns of the goat, and the. rest gam wisdom
thereby?" This is the identical thing that the writer has ~een c~m­
tending for in Illinois, but has been unable .to get even .a fair hearmg
on the matter due to the fact that Masonry m the state 1s so saturated
with ritua:ism that it is impossible for the average Mason to separate
ritualism and Masonry.

60

"Second Degree-Not more than two candidates to be taken together up to the end of the Ob.
"Third Degree-Not more than two candidates to be taken together
up to the end of the Ob. The candidates to be raised separate!)'. (all
other candidates being out of the room) and ·the ceremony continued
with on'.y one candidate up to the reference to the b. m. star. • The
candidates may then be taken together."

Kentucky:
Answering our question as to why the restriction as to the number of degrees to be conferred at the same Communication referred
only to the E. A. Degree, Brother Clarke says :
''The ancient inhibition was against the making of more than five
Masons at one time. Kentucky holds that only by initiation into the
first degree are Masons made. The conferring of subsequent degrees
is only advancing Masons in Masonry.
•
''Query-Was there, at the time of 'the enactment of the prohibi·
tion, more than one degree in. Masonry? While the ancient rule is
familiar to us, we do not recall where it is found, and we have not
the references at hand at the time of writing. If it is included among
the Ancient Re~tllations in existence prior to the organization of the
Grand Lodge of England, then, obviously, it could apply only to one
degree, as at that time Masonry consisted of but one degree. Be the
time that it came into operation what it may, 'make' is the word used,
and Masons are made only in the Entered Apprentice degree."
We believe you are right, my Brother, Masons are "made" only
a.t initiation, and in those old days Masonry consisted of only one
degree, . but of different parts or sections. Still, at this late day, we
can see no good reason why the restriction should apply to the First
Degree; 1 if at all, we would like to see it in the Third Degree.
It is the personal opinion of the writer that Lodges should not be
allowed to confer the three degrees of Masonry upon any candidate on
the same night, and that a stated period of not less than thirty days
should exist between each degree. Too many are being rushed through,
not orily in the Subordinate Lodges, but also in the higher degrees.
Making Thir.ty-second Degree Masons within a week or ten days from
the acceptance of the application of the E. A: Degree is absurd.
Utah:
The D . G. M . reported on his activities during the year. Among
other convictions which he had "garnered," was one to th~ effect that
Grand Lodge should permit Lodges to abbreviate the work. "Why .
not have one hold the horns of the goat and the rest gain wisdom
thereby?" he asks. We sincerely hope that this suggestion will not
gain adherents or adoption. Masonry will never suffer, when each
Lodge does its work properly and according to Masonic usages.. There
is no good reason to undertake to crowd matters. When applicants
become insistent that Masonry shall accommodate itself to their desires
and convenience, then a halt may well be called. There is, or should
he much in Masonry, besides a mere degree machine, calculated to turn
out the largest possible number of members-not Masons-and at the
same time pour into the Lodge treasury an uninterrupted stream of
shekels. Masonry will not lose anything that is worth having if it does
not work itself to death to secure members and funds for fraternity
fanfares.
Victoria:
The Grand Mas.ter (Victoria) reiterated former rulings with reference to the working of the degrees. "Not more than one degree to
be conferred on the same day. Tf there be more than one canciidate
for any degree, the procedure shall be:
"First Degree-Two candidates (but not more) may be taken
together t'P to the end of the Ob., when in the judgment of the Master
such should be deemed necessary.

61

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEALTH
This is one public question in which Masonry could become
actively interested wherein politics could not enter. The statistics
compiled by the United States Government in 'connection with
the National Draft Army were appalling as showing the general
·existence of venereal diseases. In September, 1917, out of every
1000 men drafted 388 of them were afflicted with venereal diseases. In November, 1917, out of every 1000 cases of sickness
182% was due to this cause. It was stated in one of the responsible national weeklies that 25% of the drafted men were inherently defective from the same cause. Surely Masonry has
an opportunity for education here, not only to its individual
members, but also to the general public.
Statistics show that public health improves and infant mortality decreases as education increases.

.•

Alabama:
"I have been interested in the crusade against the prostitute. There
are laws everywhere against the red-light districts and crusades everywhere against the prostitute. Wi '. l _YOU ti;ll me w.ho .made these women
prostitutes? Who supports them m their pr~stttutton? Is there any
difference between a male and a female prostitute? Should a Master
Mason obligation to protect the chastity of his brother's family not
apply to any man's family? Does being a Mason make y~u love your
rlaughtcr more? Does it make her any better than her sisters \;\'~ose
father is less fortunate and blessed? A gentle.man rebuked a bnlha!1t
woman not long ago for walking the streets with a fifteen year o!d girl
who had violated sex customs. He asked her what s~e meant by. msulting her friends and bringing reproach on .her. family by walk11:1g tl~e
streets with a fallen woman. She looked him m the face and said: I
have been walking these streets all my life with fallen men, and no one
·
seems to have cared about it.'"

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

Whereas the National Tuber.:ulosis A5sociation has p'.anned and
is executing' a valuable s~rvice looking to th.e eradication of tuberculosis throughout the Umted States of Amenca.
And whereas the Alabama Anti-Tuberculosis League, in connection with the National Organization, is now in the midst of the campaign of selling Red Cross Christmas Seals and Hea)th Bonds for
the purpose of raisin~ funds with which to carry out its programme
in fighting tuberculosis in Alabama next year.
And whereas the menace of tuberculosis requires for the eradica-·
tion of same the' co-operation and assistance of all good citizens of
the State of Alabama,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Therefore, be it resolved, that the Grand Lodge of Ancient Free
and Accepted Masons of Alabama hereby gives its most hearty approval to this great humanitarian movement.

as it is a well known fact that public opinion is one of the most potent
forces that may be invoked.
More fully to bring the Craft to a realization of the conditions by
which we are surrounded, and to aid in the campaign of the Health
Service, this Grand Body will be addressed on the subject by a speaker
on behalf of U. S. Public Health Service at a convenient time in the
session.
He is right. · What the world needs is less prudery an d silly
squeamishness about this subject and more real work for the. good
of man.

62

District of Columbia:
As so many Grand Lodges have legislated on prohibition, it may
be of interest to them and to the craft in general to know that since
the prohibition act went into effect the sale of narcotic drugs in the
United States has increased more than 300 per cent, which was not
unexpected. A Treasury Department report entitled "Traffic in Narcotic Drugs," says, "The order of frequency of addiction, according
to nativity, is as follows: American, Italian, English, Russian, Jewish, French, N egr0es or Chinese, Mexican or Austrian, German or
Canadian." ·
In one day (November 5) the Grand Jury in Washington returned
twenty-eight indictments against alleged "drug fiends," and in New
York thirty-four deaths occurred in a period of fourteen days from
wood a!cohol .which had been used in the illicit manufacture of
whiskey. So our greatest fear, that men having a craving for stimulants would seek insidious drugs as sub'stitutes for their accustomed
beverages, has already been more than realized, for Americans,
hitherto so free from addiction, now head the list. We have warned
against this in these very reports, but very much fear the energetic
"prohibs" will not be convinced until those near and dear to them
have become addicts.
,
We are glad to find a Grand Master (Washington) who has the.
courage to invite attention to this crying evil and to oppose the moral
sophistry of the "uplifters," who have done so much damage. The
Children of Israel were driven out of Egypt because of the leprosy
among them, the result of venereal disease, and after forty years of
dieting and hygienic practices, they were relieved greatly. Physicians
in the District of Columbia say that since the Kenyon act, abolishing
the segregated habitations of the red-light girls in the District of
Columbia, they have treated three t imes as many venereal cases as
before. The girls, the police say, are in · hotels, apartment houses and
elsewhere, touching elbows even with Senators' daughters. They are
in Government offices along with the "war workers," with a chance
not only to ply their cunning, but to corrupt good girls. Good men
hesitate to combat the Pecksniffs who assume the role of "uplift," lest
insu'. ting insinuations be hurled back.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

The U. S. Ptiblic Health Service is making a strong campaign
throughout the country to stamp out venereal disease~, and in this
behalf h~s addressed a letter to our Grand Lodge, requestihg its
co-operation.
Here, my Brothers, is an opportunity for us to be of service in a
field that is sadly in need of workers.
Among the most insidious and deadly enemies of the human family
are the various forms of venereal disease. Can we as Masons close
our eyes to their loathsome and ruinous effects on the physical and
moral status of the race? We inculcate the principles of Morality
and Virtue with the object of building Human Character. Can we
afford to neglect this powerful influence that is going so far to nullify
our work, or to forget that only a strong, clean body is fit to be the
Temple of a clean Soul?
A firm stand in support of the efforts of public officials in attempting to suppress commercialized prostitution would be ·of great value,

·63

HIGHER DEGREES
The growth of membership in the so-called "higher degrees"
has kept pace with the growth of the Blue Lodges. In some
instan.ces this has been at their expense. While we do not think
it is within the province of the Blue Lodge to formally recognize
the existence of other Masonic bodies, or to legislate as to whether
the members should join them or not, we do believe that if it
were possible for the York and Scottish Rite to make a rule that
six months or a year must elapse between the time a man becomes
a Ma~ter Mason until he is eligible to join them it would result
in vast good to all concerned. This practice has been adopted
in some Jurisdictions and the effect is that the only one who has
suffered is the applicant who is doing the rush act. If such a time
limitation could be arranged by mutual consent or otherwise, it
would prevent the Blue Lodge from becoming largely a recruiting
ground and make th• higher degrees desirable for some other
purpose than the mere wearing of an additional emblem.
Alabama:
Individual "Shriners" sometimes in the enthusiasm of their
play forget that they a re Masons, and b ring discredit upo n both
themselves, the Shrine and the Craft. The fault is the indivitlual's
and not• the Shrine's.
District of Columbia:
The Grand High Priest was received with Masonic honors.
This was done once in our Grand Lodge, and soon after this the
writer received a letter from the Portb R ican Grand Master, asking
how this could be done if we did not recog.nize the Grand R. A .
Chapter.
He regrets that so many brethren "who have advanced to the
various other Masonic bodies seem to have lost their interest in
the Blue Lodge," etc. [Well, it is so in many places. Masons,
like other men, go where it is most interesting. The rem~dy is
to make the Blue Lodge more attractive.]
Illinois:
It is not my pu rpose to cast any r eflection o n these outside
organizations. They are no doubt valuable and within the scope
of their activities are accomplishing much good. My purpose in
calling attention to this is that Masons throughout the state may

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

know that if they are members of these institutions that make
membership in Masonry an essential qualification for admission
to their body that they should not prostitute the name of Masonry
by using it in connections that confer no credit upon it. The
dignity and prominence of Freemasonry are often sought to be
used for the purpose of building up an<l strengthening other organizations that in no sense can be classed as Masonic.

"I feel , however, that Masonry itself has contributed somewhat to this undesirable condition by lessening the time required
between degrees, and in other ways showing a willingness to make
it easy for the candidate to get through the work.
.
"I belie_ve? :ather, in increasing the time between degrees, and
m further hm1tmg the number of degrees which may be conferred
at one meeting, and also in absolutely prohibiting the conferring
of any part of either degree on more than one at a time."
North Carolina:

64

Michigan:
In speaking of the conduct of certain organizations reputed
to be composed of Masons only, he says:
"It matters not by what name a society may be called, if its
members are Masons, the world at large calls it Masonic and tire
institution is charged with its acts. A Mason's pleasures, as well
as his associates, ought to be of respectable character and he
should always demean himself as becomes a Man and a Mason.which we emphatically endorse."
Montana:
To a Reverend Brother who ha,d severely criticized the Shrinehe thus replies:
.
"We have no sympathy with his views of the Shrine; his vocation makes him take himself too seriously; we believe that it is
good once in a while for ministers to mingle with the "gang;" it
makes them human ; it is true, that it scatters somewhat the halo
over their heads, but in the long run it does them good, if the
particular man has any sense; the Shrine does a lot of good; it
takes away for a little while our too sobermindedness; we liave
no patience with the "Holier than Thou" atmosphere some men
are encased in; we love all mankind and ~lieve that in the long
average one man is as good as another; many are better than those
who think themselves better than others; we certainly do not believe in swelled heads; at least thpse not caused by late hours,
etc., the night before. Here's to the Arabic Order of the Nobility
of the Mystic Shrine; some of the happiest moments of our weary
life have been spent in company of the members of this 'curse'.
suggested by the Reverend Brother; darn it, perhaps we like to be
cursed."
Nevada:
W e have invariably pronounced against the Blue Lodges being
used as a recounting ground for the higher degrees, and the hasty
and undignified solicitation 'of candidates. We have placed th~
blame with the masters of Lodges. Theirs is the task to rear the
thought and ground the young Masons in the tenets of the Craft.
Bro. Emerson has seen the error of haste and well says:
"One of the most solemn duties of the Master of a Lodge is
to bring to true Masonic light those who come under his care and
to guard them from diverting influences until the message has
struck home. The Lodge-room should be sacred to the .uses and
purposes of Masonry alone, and the Master should carefully guard
those sacred precincts from unwarranted intrusion.
·"As a member of both Rites, I trust the day will come when
the officials of each will rule that no man shall be eligible to their
degrees until he has been a Master Mason for a reasonable, defimte
length of time.

65

If there were just some way to weed out all · the fool fables
which often render ridi.c ulous the noble Order of Masonry it
would be be.tter for the standing of the Fraternity. No fault sh~uld
be found with . the ~llegorical teachings included, but when orators
of suppos.ed . mtelhgence gravel}'. tell t~e gullible multitude at
MasOf!IC p1c111c~ and on other public occasions that Masonic Lodges
were m operation before the Deluge, that our present Ritual has
been handed down from the days of King Solomon that there
has never been a President of the United States wh~ was not a
Mason, that all the Signers of the Declaration of Independence
and all Gef!erals in the Army of the Revolution were Masons, except Benedict Arnol.d (who, by the bye, was a Mason), it is enough
to make an Egyptian mummy laugh. The writer once heard a
muc~ traveled visitin_g, Brother s~riousl.Y de~lare in a lodge in
~ale1gh tha.t he had v1s1ted 16d~es m India which liad records runnmg back s1~ thousand years-m other words, these lodges worked
many centuries before Adam and Eve were created. · Ananias and
Baron Munchausen were paragons of veracity if compared with
that Brother.

Oregon:
A pernicious practice has grown up ·in some parts of this
Jurisdiction of organizing and maintaining Institutions outside of
~he Lodges •. co~posed of those in the main part who have served
m some office m a Lodge, and those in the other· part who are
members of Lo.dg~s.. Th es~ o~ganiza tions~ separate and apart
from Lodge ] unsd1ction, mamtam an·d set m motion constantly
!nflu~nces against the peace and ha:mony .of the Gran~ Lodge:
and m .a. way and !11anner. that excites strife and electioneering
and poht1cal contention, which have no place in a body of Masons.
But if no such course is taken to modify the activities that
~ave ~e~n set in motion, the time will certainly come when an
mterd1ct1on shall have to be and will be issued against the maintenance of any body whatever composed of Masons outside of the
Jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge.
South Carolina:
Brother ] oseph C. Greenfield called for me and took me out
to the Masonic Hospital for Crippled Chndren where the little
ones called him " Papa Greenfield." Words faii me when I trv
to paint the human pictures I saw there. The children enter
this hospital with limbs contorted in every shape and form and
leave it not only with limbs straightened as they ought to b~, but
strong enough for all the purposes of life. Brother Greenfield
told me that if I knew of any children needing such treatmen• as
they could. give? to send them at once; they would be tre~te<l
free ; and· 1f their parents could not afford the rail~oad fare, the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

hospital would pay that, too. Brethren, are you not proud that
such a Masonic Institution as this is to be found in our Southland?
Virginia:
Brother Eggleston believes he sees a danger in the use of
'he Scottish Rite ritual in our lodges. · He says :
.
"It will not be long before we hear of more and more Lodges
using the Scottish Rite Ritual. Then begins a disco·r d for which
· the only remedies are prevention now or schism ultimately. Already
and for many years we have had two incompatible Masonries in
the world. Do not let us have two in America. The Geaeral
Grand Lodge idea looks to Scottish Rite rule ultimately, which
would be a system of government from above. A brotherhood
should derive all power from the brethren on the ground floor." '
The following resolution was offered and adopted:
Wisconsin:
"Resolved, by the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, that the Rev..
H. R. Coleman; be, and he is, hereby invited to visit subordinate
Lodges of Kentucky, giving account of his travels in various countries investigating the various forms and ceremonies of Masons
and searching for Masonic light, and to confer the Oriental Order
of Masonry on brethren who may desire the same."
We have heard the Rev. brother lecture and his account of
his travels is both interesting and instructive, but when it comes
to giving a semi-Masonic standing to another fanciful degree we
must protest. There are enough such degrees in Masonry now
without sanctioning any others. Masonry would have been far
better off had they never been known.
We feel that a Grand Lodge has no more right to dictate in
this behalf than it would have to say that one of its members
should not also join the Odd ·Fe!lows or Knights of Pythias. The
so-called higher degrees are in no sense Masonic except that they
themselves refuse to receive members who are not Masons.
Washing ton:
The most important period to a candidate is that period of
study and reflection in which he has opportunity, undisturbed, to
assimilate those sublime lessons taught him upon entering into the
Masonic life. Without study and thought, he cannot assimilate.
Without assimilation, he cannot grow in Masonic stature. It has
been a common spectacle, growing more and more apparent with
passing years, to see newly initiated Masons being importuned to
seek other rites and ceremonies without having had time to become
acquainted with even the rudiments of the sublime lessons placed
before them for study as Entered Apprentices, Fellowcrafts and
Master Masons. The whole drama of life· as such is placed before
them. It may be elaborated upon, but never increased in scope.
There has apparently developed between the York and Scottish Rites an undignified solicitation of. material, using the Lodge
rooms of Masonry as a recruiting-ground, frequently not even
waiting until the candidates are raised to the sublime degree of
a Master Mason before holding up before their eyes a picture of
the beauty and desirability of their particular degrees; a proceeding
that cannot but belittle our Institutidn in the estimation of the
young and inexperienced Mason, by placing it in the apparent

67

position of being only the entrance to· Masonry instead of the
co:nplete Institution itself.
HOMES
Each. Jurisdiction has its own idea as to how they should
handle this matter. The high. cost of living has materially affected
the conduct of Masonic Homes, the same as any other walks of life.
Generally they have been able to meet the obligations imposed
upon them.
.

In one · Jurisdiction over $100,000 was raised by voluntary
subscriptions to save its Home.
Illinois :
Much di~erence of o.pinion exists among the members of the
~ome at Sull1yan concerning the question of giving a helping hand
m the domestic work of the home. Excerpts from previous report.s
of ~h.e Board of Managers have been quoted in defens e of their
posttton by members ":ho object to giving help and who insist
that no labor of any kind or chatacter should be performed by
members of the h ome.
e conside-r this an especially opportune time to call the
attention of the members of the constituent Lodges and especially
the Masters and Secretaries of their Lodges to the fact that each
me~ber. of the home agrees, over his or her signature in the
apphcatl<?n of the Lodge .for admission of such member, to 'perform
suc.h ~uties. as the s~penntendent deems within his or her ability
1:h1s is. eminently right and proper if considered from no othe;
v1ewpom~ than. tha;t of !he physical and mental welfare of the
~embe:s. and. m times like the present, when good paid help is
increasmgly difficult to. obtai~, the aggregate of the little that is
asked of the m.em~ers. 1s a_n importan t item in the administ rative
expense of an mstttut1on hke the Home at' Sullivan.
.
The Board has definitely adopted the policy of requiring such
help unless .the . .member i~ specifically excused therefrom on
account of d1sab1hty by a written statement of the Home physician.
Alabama:

W.

M . The assumpti.on o.f these ~fasonic Home boards is astonishing
. any of them display a subhme contempt of grand lodge, whe~
1t co~es to financial matters, and seem to think the Home is II
there 1s of grand lodge and that it is the bigger of the two. th~t
the only excuse for the existence of grand lodge is· to p!ovide
funds for the Home. They should understand that they are the
agents and not the masters of grand lodge.
These institutio~s are continuing to spring up in jurisdictions
!lot a)ready posse.ssmg th~m and the inmates of those previously
m ex1ste~ce continue to increase in number. ·With this increase
and the increased . cost of living, the firtancial problems of the
Homes grow heavier and more perplexing with each year They
ev.effrywhere are d~~anding t~e anxious thoughts of grand lodge.
J:?1 erences of opinion are still voiced as to whether Homes are
either the best or the most economical plan of solving the Relief
question.

68

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Montana:
Some of the Grand Lodges do not contemplate the erection
of such homes, but they contribute to the support of their needy
by a system of perisioning. Each Grand Body has adopted that
plan which seems to it as best suited to alleviate its aged and
helpless ( ?). You will notice that we have placed ( ?) after "helpless." More than one Grand Lodge has a regulation that only
those who are not physically able to take care of themselves can
become inmates of their hofnes, hence the question mark.
South Carolina:
We have always maintained that Masons could relieve more
of their less-fortunate Brethren by Private Relief than by Institutional Aid, salaries of employees and the interest lost on the money
sunk in brick and mortar amount to such huge figures. Now
comes the Board of Control of the Masonic Home at Darlington
(we like the name "Darlington," we live in Darlington, S. C.),
with this admission:
"There has been an average of forty-one persons, who have
been admitted to the privileges of the Masonic Home, who have
been maintained by the Board of Control away from Darlington.
This has been done for several reasons. First, that families might
be kept together; second, it has been found in many cases that
an allowance of much less than would maintain the same number
of persons in the Home could be made, to augment their own
earnings, and thus make it cost the Masonic Home much less than
it would to keep them at Darlington; third, in some instances they
have been maintained outside of the Home because of tuberculosis
or some other ailment which makes it unsafe to admit them into
the Home Family."
Brother Hager does not like our plan of helping our less
fortunate Brethren and their dependents, and, inter alia, says thereanent:
"They undoubtedly have a carefully supervised system, but
after reviewing the proceedings of so many Jurisdictions which
are maintaining splendid homes for the aged and indigent as well
as the orphans, we confess that we lean to the Masonic and sentimental idea of caring for dependents."
Yes, in a way, th$ question with us is one of economy, namely,
how we can do the most good with the money on hand. We
don't like to spend it on brick and mortar monuments which cease
to be assets and become liabilities, nor do we spend our money
on salaries. As to "farming out," we don't do that. We let our .
needy Brethreri and their dependents stay right where they tived
before needing help ; we don't take them away from their old
homes and old friends and associations, and shut them up among
total strangers, where everything they do-get up, eat, walk, go to
bed, etc.-must be done at the ringing of a bell. As to which
"side" is "Masonic and sentimental," we are quite willing for each
one to judge for himself. If Brother Hager would prefer to be
thus taken from his· old home and old friends and made to mingle
with strangers under conditions necessarily in force in a home for
aged and unfortunate Brethren like himself, to remaining where
he is now, among old friends and acquaintances, amid familiar
surroundings, made dear by many tender memories, with no one
to kno'o/ that he is an object of charity save the Masonic Trustees
of his Fraternal Benevolent Fund, then, of course, it is his pdvi-

REPORT ON ~ORRESPONDENCE

•

69

lege; but it is not our idea of 'awaiting the messenger Azrael.
T)link again, Brother Hager.
Virginia:
·
St~ad,ily the pendulum of Masonic opinion swings toward
local, md1v1dual care of. Masonic ·orphans, and even more of dependent Ma~ons and widows, rather than Masonic Homes The
lat~er plan 1.s a costly one, which feature might be ignor~d but
it. is not satisfactory m other particulars. . Discord in board;
amon~ employees a~d also inmates is a constant evil. I t has b~~~
said, lnst1tut1onal hfe cannot be happy life " and as th h
··
ot our dependent loved ones is the one 'reat aim th appm~ss
of which course is best must be squarely ~aced.
'
e question
IMMORTALITY
. Witi:t so many l!ve issues before us, we do not see why in
some Jurisdictions time should be consumed in speculating on
matters of dogma. The idea of the Deity, or the views as to the
hereafter, are matters that have kept pace with the developments
of the· human race.
· ~t wo~ld b~ interesting to know how many Masons in California believe literally in the God of Abraham Isaac a d J
b
as se t f or th m
. a d ec1s1on
. .
,
n
aco
of 1857.
Pe.rhaps ~ome of us are not as practical as the perso.n who
~~momshed his four-legged companion in the following language:
nyaer; you are a dog. . When you are dead, you are dead. I am
a Dutchman. When I am dead, I am dead; and go to __ - ·- ."
Illinois:
· During the past yea
·
. the consideration of th r, a new question appe~rs to be receLving
imp'rove Freemasonry. ose who are ever seeking t o .amend and
Two or three Grand Lodg·e d ·
h
·
into their Masonic system the q~es~l~~g0} .~b Pj:s} :yearh h~ve inject.ed
of the soul." . They have made .
· e 1e in t e 11nmortality
que.s~ions, but have inserted it IJnnt~eof~~~ne of t,h e cc;insti.tutional
petition for degrees which the candida .
of :1 questlc;>n into .the
from a very careful study of the evolut~~nrn;fs.~s1gn: T.,h1s . quest10n,
~o be largely modern and grows
t f
reemaso,n ry, appears
0
mtrodu.ce sectarian questions into th~ goen:r yresentl t.endency to
fraternity.
a regu ations ot the
In the original Fre·emasortr wh ·· h ·
·
·
after th.e formation of the Gran/Lod~ce ofEn~lac~c.ed 171f7ediat~ly
was .said .concerning a . belief in th .
.an m
, nothing
it was not until the introduction ofe hmm.or.tahty of th e . soul, and
in the first decade 0 £' the · ·E·· ht' ~ .he legend of the third degree
·
~
ig cent century that this
·
commenced to ·receive consideration Just' h . f
. q.uest10n
present agitation toward -making belief in th~~ ar ref.ching: the
soul a paramount Masonic issue will be re
. immorta ity of t~e
a .serious question a's to whether the introd~~~lo~o bfe s~en. I.t ·1s
will not lead to much discussion as to the int
o . this S!!bJe~t
to be placed upon this query, and whether .erpretat~on w~1ch is
the Masonic Fraternity will not lead to mo its colns1derat1on. by
·
.
re or ess confuswn.

ii

1.tEPUltT ON CUJHtESPONIJENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

A large percentage of sincere, th?ughtful, men do not believe
in the immortality of the soul as ts usually ~onstrued l;>Y the
average churchman. Ask one hu~dred me!! to give you thetr conception or understanding of the. 1mn_iortahty of the soul. an~ one
will be much surprised at the d1vers1ty of ans~ers, and 1t w11) be
quite impossible to reconcile many. of !hem with the narrow idea
usually held by the average denomination. '4
•
This is a question which must be !~ft to ~he conscience of the
individual. Our business as Masons 1s. to hve. up to the moral
standards and teachings of the Fraternity, leaving the future to
take care of itself.

" That upon the official documents issued by the Grand Lodge
of this state, particularly to foreign jurisdictions, all correspondence to foreign jurisdictions and all the literature stand in the
name of or have t he words 'In God We Trust."'
This is all right,. and the writer is for it. Of course, there will
be those who will cry that such procedure is not orthodGx, and is
a violation of the landmarks. The action of the Grand Lodge of
New York demonstrates clearly just exactly how Masonry has
grown and developed in the past two hundred years. Now that
ln God We Trust has become a part of the official nomenclature
of the Grand Lodge of New York, it goes without saying that a
time will come when this expression will be regarded as fundamental and one of the distinguishing landmarks of Freemasonry.

70

Nevada:
The belief in the immortality of the soul is a part of the
Common Law of Masonry. It needs no enactment. From the
first it has been receiyed and recognized by the Craftsmen, as
evidenced in the working of the degrees.
Utah:
Here, for example, under the head: ''.A New ~equirement,"
he places his finger on a tendency to which attent10n has ~een
called by the writer of these lines, as well . as by some ot ers.
It is the persistence with which things sect.anan have been ~fust
upon, and int-0 the legislation of the Fraterm.ty. In t~e car d ore
us the reviewer deals with one feature, which certainly. ofn n?
place in the Constitution of th~ first .Grand. Lodge-.mf :ict, ht
is modern decidedly modern, mnovatton. viz., a behe in,. t e
immortality of the soul. He calls attention to. the fact that twf
or three Grand Lodges * * * have. made 1t. n?t only one o
the constitutional questions, but have mse~ted 1t m th.e form of
a question into the petition for degrees which the cand1dateCh~st
sign"-so determined are some members of t~e ~r~ft tod
ks,;
tianize our rituals and work. Perhaps Mackey m his La~ mar ~
(20th) resting his argument on a statement by Hutchmson, 1~
largely responsible for the persistence, :'-nd gradual asceptance <?.
this doctrine, though Hutchinson sees in our ~ymbohsmh abtedst1~
to "our faith concerning the resurrection of t e o . Y·
M~~~ey's argument that "to believe in Masonry, a!ld not behele
in a resurrection would be an absu~d anomaly, wh.1ch ~ould on Y
be excused," etc., might be us~d with. equal. propriety in support
r sectarian doctrine which might be regarded as
o f any Othe
.
. f . G d."
"subsidiary to this behe in o
"IN GOD WE TRUST''
While true that "In God We Trust" is plac~d on the m~tal
money of our country, still we' do not believe that it adds anyt.hmg
to its intrinsic value or reverence for it. The same may be said as
regards the use .of these words ~n the official stationery.. of th1e
Grand Lodge of New York. It 1s of course a matter of St~~e s
Rights," but the "landmarks" are evidently due for another add1t1on
or interpretation.
Illinois:
A resolution was introduced by William Shearer (New Yock)
providing

Iowa:
P. G. M. Sherer, Chairman o ~ the Committee on Correspondence, made an address in the course of which he moved ''that upon
the official documents issued by the Grand Lodge of this state,
particularly to ±oreign jurisdictions and all the literatu1·e stand in
the name of or have the words 'In God We Trust,'" and this was
adopted by Grand Lodge. ln explanation of this motion he says
that he desires the assurance that he has done "something to perpetuate what I believe to be the great landmark c.f Masonry." And
the placing of th e above legend upon · the stationery of Grand
Lodge-the significance or value of that is beyond us. And in
what way this making broad the philacteries will "perpetuate" any
landmark we are unable to discover. Does our Brother hold that
that inscription in the remotest manner even will affect the beliefs
or life of any Mason within the bounds of the Empire State ?
And will it not, on the other hand, have a tendency to cheapen
that which should lie deepest within the recesses of the heart life?
Ordinarily, we instinctively doubt the sincerity of those who proclaim aloud and in the public ear, the ir loyalty to church and God.
The people of the times of the Man of Gallilee worked overtime
at this. No one could questio.n the orthodoxy of the professions
of the leaders-externals were all in th eir favor-while hell reigned
in their hearts. We are willing, perfectly willing, to admit that
we may go too far in the other direction, but this lugging of the
empty Ark into the midst of the battlefield of life and raising a
great shout, only to have it found to be empty of 'all real power,
has never appealed to us. We suspect the ins.i:ription under discussion, occupying a conspicuous place on the stationery of this
great jurisdiction will nave just as much effect as does t he same
inscription on the coins of the country, and no more.
We must confess that we do not like this proposition at all,
for to us it seems to be wholly at variance with the Mason's timehonore~ way of teaching great truths by intimation and suggestion.
There ts. far t.oo much ~laring publicity about this new scheme.
Great thmgs he deeply hidden and strong men do not wear their
hearts upon. their coat sleeves. It is a far cry from types, emblems,
and alleg~ncal figures to this sort of blatant proclamation. It is
a most v10lent departure from · our ancient habit of veiling our
great truths in allegory and suggesting them by emblems. To us
it seems like desecrating a shrine, like exposing sacred things to
public gaze. It is far more . suggestive of profanation than of true
reverence. The Grand ·Architect does not depend for H is existence upon our sticking His name upon all of our stationery.

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Tlie cause of true religion will not be promoted by any t5 uch public
parade as this. Christ said : "When thou prayest, enter into thy
closet," and He rebuked severely the Pharisee who prayed openly
in the market place that he might be seen of. men .. Our ancient
brethren so profoundly revered the very name of Deity · that they
did not presume either to write it or speak it aloud. But :our
New York brethren must stick it on their letterheads as does Uncle
Sam on the almighty dollar.
INVESTIGATION
One of the chief faults in our present system is 'the laxity of
Investigation Committees. This is the most important DUTY that
can be given to a member, but unfortunately it is too often preferred only perfunctorily. Masonry is supposed to be a select
body of men', and the more' difficult it is for · a' man to join the
more h~ will appreciate the privilege. · The · questi~ns .asked on
the application for degrees should be elaborated so that a petitioner must give in detail his past and present, physical and moral,
and financial history. Some Lodges and Jurisdictions give to t~e
Investigatio~ Committee a set of questions to be used as a guide,
which we believe is a good custom. These questions sh ould not
be spetl.ilative, religious or metaphysical, but should be of sufficient scope to enable the Investigation Committee to form an
intelligent opinion.
We usually require this information in business transaction
and when we give a person the ' great privilege of becoming ··a
Mason we. should be equally, if not more exacting.
0

District of Columbia:
This is precisely the difference .b etween a church and a Lodge.
If a man goes to a church with a contrite heart, and asks to be
received in to membership, the church will · take him; but if he goes
to a Lodge', the Lodge will appoint a committee to discover what
his .Jife has been, and his past life will determine the action of the
committee and the Lodge.
Florida:
It will be remembered that in Virginia . they .have no ·"Committee on Character.'1 The name of the applicant is presented 'and
endorsed by two· members o·f the Lodge who a re expected to
answer all questions and .f urnish all information · regarding' the
app licant. At the next regular.. co~munication following the p_ro~
posal o.f the candidate, th e apphcat10n goes to ballot. They think
that this plan works well. It is very much like the methods iR
Lodges under the Grand Lodge of Ireland. It will be remembered
that most .of the esoteric work in use in America comes fro m what
is known as the " Irish work" and many of their · customs are . in
force in Virginia and Pennsylvania, which Grand · Lodges follow
the o riginal work received by them probably more closely than
any of the oth er Grand Lodges follow the work as originally presented at their organization.
The ahove is 100 per cent true.

73

Illinois :

..

One candidate for the degrees got himself int~ very serious
t~ouble., When he filled out his petition he 'stated tha t he was a
smgle man, later on he confessed that he had made a false . .statement, and had done so for family reasons.
It . goes without saying that if every man who petitions a
Maso111c Lodge were to apprise his wife of the fact before he took
the fatal step, the chances are that much of the mad . rush for
~egre.es ·at the present time would be slowed up. Our sympathies
m. this case are yery naturally with the man, because we have
alw~ys held that 1.f a man does th e right thing by his family and
f~rn!s~e.s them with. those co!11fo rts whic~ h~man : life .d emand$,
h is Jommg. a Ma.so111c Lodge 1s none of his wife'~ business. But
1~0 i;ian has . a right.to deny his family the necessary. things of
life m. order to procu~e the. privileges of Masonry, a nd one of the
1!1ost important functions of every investigating committee is to
find out whether a candidate can ·afford to take. the .degrees,
Indiana :

Vfe should never· lose the test of -quality' in 'our desire for
9uantity. The M'.lsonic fratern ity 'never has and never will seek
its members, and 1t should s~lect from those that apply only ·such
as ·are worthy and well qualified. I would,· therefore, recommend
to the. Mast.ers .of th e va'.ious Lodges the necessity of impressingupo.n mveshgatmg committees the duty of making a real investi~a t1~n. and not me~ely fo.rmally appr oving an applicant without
mqumng carefully mt.o his c~aracte:. As we safeguard in this
manner o~r membership, we will continue to be a com·party of gentlem~n .. w1th culture, refinement and h onesty as dis'tinct ive characteristics of the Craft.
·
·
Massachusetts :
.Again I d~sire to urge .in the strongest possible manner the
most careful and painstaking investigation of every applicant for
degrees .an.d membership. Unprecedented numbers are applying
for a~m1ss1on at present. In some directions · there · seems to 'be
a .feelmg that ~he .s1:1c:cess of a Lodge is largely dependent upon.
the number of its m1tiates and new m embers. No sadder mi'stake
could .be made. Success in Masonic membership is not to be measured by numbers but by quality: There should be no letting down
of the bars, but rather ·a more r igid investigation in times like
these .w.h ~n . so many men are applying for the privileges of our
organ1zat10n.
.
.
.I. hav e. had ~ub~itted to me in one or two cases a form- oi
q.uest10nna1re "'.h1ch .1t was proposed to send applicants for degrees
ap,d . membership ·with the request that written answers be tur.
mshed. I c:an ~ully. app'.eciate the high and worthy motives that
prompt '.ln . mqu1ry m . t~1s form as to the fitness of the applicant
for adm1ss1on, but .I th.mk. that the objections to such a method
of proce.du_re o.utwe1gh its advantages. I think if I were applying
for ad~1ss101:" ;mto any organization, I should be much disinclined
to put m wntmg fo rmal answers to questions of a personal character not knowing o : having the assurance that the answers would
be return ed to me m the event of my rejection. Again I think
tl!at such a fo rm of inquiry is not elastic enough to cover individual cases and t hat it is apt to discourage . a fair and careful

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

investigation by the investigating committee which should always
include a personal interview. Some admirable letters of instruction have been recently given out in some Lodges to be placed
in the hands of investigating committees suggesting the ground
to be covered in their inquiries.

in this jurisdiction. I refer to the investigating committee. The
committee in almost every Lodge w hich performs its work the
most poorfy is the investigating committee.
The investigation committee does not, as a rule, investigate.
I believe they should hav~ a personal interview and satisfy themselves that the candidate possesses the necessary mental, moral
·and physical fitness required by the jurisdiction.

74

Nevada:
Attention is called to slack work by investigating committees.
The Lodge's most important work is done by members serving
on such committees. If they serve well there will be fewer black
balls, for rarely will an unworthy man iret by the searching inquiry
of a fearless investigatinir committee. There should be no regrets
that certain individuals had been permitted to enter the portals
of Masonry. If the committees of investigation see that only
those under the tongue of good report and coming well recommended get their approval, it will mean a long stride in eliminating the re'!'rets that come after. ·
He ruled that an objection to advancement could not be made
to a Master by phone. The committee, while deprecating the use
of the phone for recording an objection, did not believe it should
be disregarded. Nor do we. An objection is a serious matter and
the ouestion is not how it reached the Master, so long as it reached
him in time, and headed off a man unworthy to be made a Mason.
The telephone is a recognized part of the business world and
must be given weight as such.
New York:
We do not want and must not elect to membership the unworthy. cowards. R'rafters, trimmers, weaklings, men lacking backbone, floaters with the popular tide no matter whither they may
trend. Direct your Lodge members in passing upon applications
to do their full duty. manfully, bravely, without fear. without favor.
Direct them to scrutinize closely the character of those who seek
to join. Direct them to make exception of no man, howsoever
great. howsoever wealthy, howsoever influential.
Direct them to see to it that no person be permitted to the
rites of Freemasonry who does not measure up to the full standard
of a man. bearing in mind this axiom, that the end of man's destiny
is not to be counted as the best Frenchman, the best Englishman,
or the best American in any other sense than that he is the best
man that his physical. mental and moral faculties can make of him.
Direct them to use caution, investigation, deliberation, in the
privileires accorded them, and to deny no man entrance into the
Order Masonic, be he ever so lowly and humble, so long as his
character is above reproach.
Admonish them further. that after they elect a man they teach
him Freemasonry, not in the sense of mumbling over the ritual
in a half-hearted, unintelligible sort of a way, but in its broadest
and most siirnificant terms. Teach him to be accepted as a Freemason is to be counted as a man possessing noble aspirations and
high ideals.
Teach him to cultivate friendship, morality, brotherly love,
service. truth. These qualities should be brought out in the beginning. The best way to teach them is ever to practice them yourself.
Nova Scotia:
There is one matter, however, I wish to direct the attention
of Grand Lodge, and through it to the Masters of all the Lodges

75

Ohio:
Irish Lodges. as a rule, do not require a writ~en app.licati?n
from a candidate, his proposal by a member acquainted with him
treing deemed sufficient. The Board ~f G~neral i:'u~poses, however approved of a written form, which 1s perm1ss1ble but not
compulsory. This new form contains n?thing m?r.e than an ~xpres­
sion of desire on the part of the candidate to iom the Society of
Free Masons, his name,. place of abode, his profession or occupation a statement that he is twenty-one years of age, or upwards,
and' if he has previously applied for admission to another Lodge.
One of the vital questions on our petitions is only put to the candidate during the ceremony of initiation.
Scotland :
No c<111d>1h>te · for initiation into F reemasonry. or affi liation to
a Lodite. shall be admitted a member thereof until h~ vroduces an
application, stating his name, age, profession, and residence; and a
declaration that he has never been refused b v any other Lodge. or
if so, when and by what Lodge or Lodires; which a~plication shalt
he subscribed by two Master Masons of the Lodr;ce, m good standing. to whom the applicant is welt known. The ch.arac~er and
qualifications of the aoplicant shall th~n be fully enqmred mto by
a committee of enquiry. consistin1< of the Right Worshipful Master the Immediate Past Master. the Secretary, and not less than
tw~ other memhers of the Lodirc. who must be Master Masons in
good standin'1'. to be appointed annually by P.very LodR'e at the
rneeting at whic h the apolic.ation is to be considered. No applicatio n shall be considered by the Lodge until the committee of
enquirv has rl'ported.
Three hlack baits exclude in Scotland, and in some of the
provinces, the rufe is two, bnt never one, as with us.

Utah:
An interesting char:.cteristic of our brother's work. as we see
it, is a sttong tendency to make sweeping assertions, and his deductions seem to us, often. not to have a sufficient basis in fact. To
illustrate, he makes use of a warning by the Grand Master of California airainst carelessness on the part of investigating committees
as sufficient grounds upon which to rest the declaration that, "The
plan of having investigating committees at alt is everywhere a
failure. Better by far our plan of throwing the whole affirmative
as to a candidate on his vouchers and making the whole L od'!'e the
judge." We are glad to know that o ur brother is satisfied with
Virginia procedure, but his unqualified statement that t he more
common plan is "everywhere a failurP." is riot justified .by the facts
which have come under our observation. That it does not always
secure dc9irable r esults, or those aimed at affords no good r eason
for such a sweeping condemnation. And as we look over the lists

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of Virginia Lodges, and note the numbers of suspensions, "reinstat ements to the right, and benefits of Masonry," etc., we are led
to conclude that even Brother_ Eggleston's "far better plan" does
not produce .entirely satisfactory resul~s.
Virginia:
Better far ou r plan of throwing t he whole affirmafive as to a
candidate on his vouchers and making the whole Lodge the judge.
No one then runs the risk of making enemies, an d the silent ballot
renders the verdict. When it is understodd that every member
present must have satisfactory assurance there are always those
who will do their · own investigating and report by their ballots.
LARGE LODGES
· As Ledges increase their membership, they lose sight of the
ma.1n purpose of our Organ:zation, that is the development and .
entertainment of the individual. This condition might be · overcome either by limiting the size of the Lodge, setting a fixed
period that must elapse between the time that the degrees may
be conferred on an ind'.vidual member, and educating a Worshipful
Master to the viewpoint that his record depends not on the number of candidates that he raises during his term, but rather the
general good that _w ill come to his Lodge by making it a factor
in the daily life of the individual member and the community.
The first limitation might be too drastic in its actual working
out. The second would tend to the formation of new Lodges by
reason of the fact that the work could not be done in a reasonable
length of time. The third should appeal to reason and be exemplified both by precept and example.
Alberta:
I am satisfi ed by my experience this year, that the smaller
outlying Lodges afford the P,romise of greatest Masonic strength
in years to come. In the cities we are over-o rganized. There are
many and varied kinds of meeting, and brothers become negligent. Some new organization with a catchy name, and a ton .of
"ratronage" appears and we lose the attendance at Blue. J .odge
o f those who never came to give anything, but only to get.- Then,
too, strife and envy and bitterness creep in. Personal antagonisms
· develop over the ballot, of over ambitions and so on until new
members find that instead of brotherhood there is strife and hatred
too often.
··
lowa:
,
Evidence accumulated from many sources during the year goes
to prove the inherent difficulties of the large Lodge. In many
ways th e lar'l'e Lodge fails, as a Masonic institution. It tends to
hecome a highly centralized business institution. Its members,
even after many years, become acquainted with but a fraction ·of
the total roster. On funeral occasions the attendance is a handful,
except in cases where the deceased brother w as prominent" in financial or political circles. Of social ability it has little except that

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

77

wh ich is purely formal. The reception of petitions becomes a
bu rden. Witness the reception of sixty-eight petitions in one evening by one of our Lodges this year. The conferring of degrees
obsessed the officers like a nightmar.e. Observe the announcement
of one Lodge that it would start to work on a certain day at 12 :01
a. m. and close at 11 :59 p. m.-with a temptation to set the clock
batk to conform to the law, so that t he lectures might be given.
To bring together the principal objections to the large Lodge
that form t he real indictment, let us mention (a) the tendency to
lay stress upon the business activities and the ritualist.ic ,'l\'.ork t o
the exclusion of all· others; (b) the absence of real soc1ab1hty and
acquaintance among the members-the extent of this lack ex~ibit­
ing itself in the indifference to a brother's welfare and a failure
to love him enough to wish to follow him to his last resting place ;
(c) the wastage of all the energies of the officers in the degree
mill, so that . they have no opportunity or vim to perform other
fu nctions equally or even more important for the advancement
of the causes for which our fraternity should stand; (d) the large
Lodge gives the average member no opportunity to participate in
its activities all the time being taken up by routine work to the
exclusion of addresses or lectures even if talen t is available for
this source of inspiration; ( e) the Masonic development of each
member is necessarily restricted; .(f) even the opportunity to participate· in the ritualistiC work of the Lodge is confined to a very
small proport ion of the total membership. and t he pathway to the
stations is too narrow for the progress of more than the few; (g)
the individual member, therefore, fee ls a very small sense of
responsibility for either the Lodge o r Masonry in gener al. As
opposed to these things, the small Lodge facilitates acquaintance,
uses a large proportion of its membership in the various activities,
thereby getlerating the desire to know and the desire to serve in
the hearts of all, promotes good fellowship, gives a more nearly
equal chance for each member to become Worshipful Master (the
ambition to preside over a Lodge is a just and honorable one),
and finally, the percentag·e of attendance in the small Lodge is
far higher than in the large one.
Manitoba:
Questioning the usefulness of a large Lodge is not a new form
of criticism, and it is likely to develop feeling. It would appear
that the dead weight of a large Lodge is difficult to carry, that
its successful conduct calls fo r greater gifts of leadership than the
officers of ordinary Lodges possess, and the members are apt t o
regard the securing of new members as a worthy accomplishment
in itself.
Massachusetts:
I am very much impressed that many of our Lodges are much
too large in membership. It seems to me self!evident that a Lodge
that is obliged to hold meetings several times a month in order
to confer the degrees upon large numbers of candidates cannot
properly discharge its many important duties to the Craft and to
its own members. The conferring of degrees is very far from
being the sole object and purpose of a Masonic Lodge. It is the
close personal touch, the mutual exchange of ideas, the warm comradeship that brings men constantly together with hearts and
minds influenced by the beautiful lessons and teachings of our

.

79

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

institution, t~at makes our membership truly worth while. Over
and over agam I have heard members of some of our large Lodges
say that they knew very few of their own membership and so · did
not go to their Lodge meetings very often. In some cases Lodge
rooms will not accommodate a third of their members to say nothing of visitors.

MASONIC INSURANCE COMPANIES
Coupling the word Masonic with any business or activity that
has for its object the financial benefit only of individuals is sooner
or later bound to cause criticism and trouble. This is particularly
so in Insurance companies. They must be governed by the same
laws and regulations that apply generally to that class of business.
If they are not properly conducted they fail, which entails hardships on policy holders or stockholders.
It has been truiy aaid that an Insurance Adjuster is one who
stands between the claimant and immediate wealth, and the denial
of a claim or the unethical conduct of the business is bound to
reflect on Masonry generally. The public naturally associates any
commercial activity bearing the name " Masonic" with the
Fraternity.

78

LATIN MASONRY
The ideals and the source of Latin Masonry should not be
judged by our standards. It was born and exists under conditions
that do not prevail in English-speaking countries. Anglo-Saxon
Masonry was originally a convivial and philosophical society, while
Latin Masonry was formed to right political wrongs. If the same
state of affairs confronted us as do our Latin brethren we would
undoubtedly work along the same line and in the same mimner.
Alabama: .
Brother Chambers, agreeing with Brother George W Baird
of I?istrict of Columbia, says the Latin peoples seem to be "im~
possible as Masons." We are loth to believe that all Latins are
so; we. can't b~t b~lieve that there are some genuine Masons and
Masom.c organizations among them. Our doubt is wh&ther we
have tned as we should to understand them. Some of our Masunic
stu4ents, we know, halt in any effort to learn the truth concerning
~atm ~asonry when they find their reports and proceedings printed
m Spanish.
Cuba:
During the past year a . modest . Latin Mason the •Grand
Mas~er of an ins~gnifica!1t Grand Lodge, gave away the idea nf
holdmg. a Masomc reumon among the nations of America, with
tendencies of a peaceful nature. The plan was circulated to all, for
the benefit of Anglo-Saxon brethren the letter was translated into
~ome language similar to English that they may have understood
1t. The answers soo!1 began to arrive; some, very few Grand
~asters, accepted the 1d~a ~nd applauded it; some thought it most
~nopport~ne and the maJ<inty with more or less courtesy refused
1t. But 1t has not been long since a Masonic publication of the
Great R.epublic, the youngest and, perhaps, the best of all of them,
The .E\u1lder, the organ of the National Masonic Research Association,. gave out a well studied p lan about a similar thing; of
~ourse 1t does not say. whether any poor Cuban devil thought .of
~t before, but as the child already has an An·g lo-Saxon step-father,
1t may . perhaps succeed and any where any discussion may rise
o_ut of 1t, no matter w hether the true mother, Cuba, may be mentioned or not. Oh men, as Turgot said, perhaps many of you are
not worthy of Liberty!
Utah:
In considering the question we must remember that Latin
Masonry cannot be judged by Anglo-Saxon standards. If we
adopt this narrow view we are liable to find our recognition practically confined to English-speaking Masonry. I would recommend recognition not on technical grounds but in the interests
of ~ br?ader viewpoint of Masonic Fraternalism. Let us make
University of Masonry not mere rhetoric but a reality.

Canada:
Trouble had been experienced from insurance companies professing to be "for Masons only" and seeking to exploit Masoi:ry
for private gain. The Grand Master holds that these compames
are out "for dollars only," and warns his brethren to beware of
them. Of course, if they fail, Masonry will be held blamable.
Iowa:
Last year we amended Section,.297 of. the. Code., making it. a
Masonic offense to use the word Masomc . m bus1!1e~s, cert:i-m
kinds of educational business, such as magazme pubhshmg, bemg
specifically exempted.
There are at least two Masonic Life Insurance companies in
the United States ;. one is the Maso!1ic Mutua~. of the J?is.trict of
Columbia· the other is the Masomc Protective Assoc1at1on, of
W orceste~, Mass. If the word "Masonic" cannot, of moral right,
be used in an insurance business, even where the company so
using it is chartered by another state or by an act of C~n.gress.
and where, furthermore, the character, honesty, and ab1ht)'. of
the men at the head of such company are vouched for by the h1g.hest officer of a sister Jurisdiction, then my own standard of fairness is at fault.
.
There may be an opinion in this Grand Lodge th~t the use of
the word "Masonic" in any business way whatever 1s absolutely
w rong and should be abolished. If that is true then t he proper
steps ~hould be taken to enforce this law.
Texas:
I believe that t he Grand Lodge of Texas means what it .>ays
when it declares in effect that a man shall not capitalize his
Masonry in this Grand Jurisdictio.n for the purl?ose of obtaining
business. If the Grand Lodge does not mean this, then the Laws
and Decisions I have quoted ought to be repealed, and at the next
meeting of the Grand Lodge is the time and place when the issne
ought to be brought to a fi nal settlement.

80

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIATIQ~
The Masonic Service Association of the United States is now
an assured fact. In this Committee's report last year the matter
was gone into at length. The following is. taken from the first
bulletin of the Association:
The Masonic Service Association represents a joint arid cooperative effort of the member Grand Lodges to mobilize the ideals
and intellect of all for a solution of those problems which are
nation-wide. No better expression of this desire can be found
than the word "Service" incorporated in the title of the. Association.
The Association is founded upon a conception of Freemasonry
as an organization of "BUILDERS": Builders of CharaCter on the
one hand; Builders working upon the Temple of Civilization on the
other. The type of service which it is ambitious to render is
therefore two-fold: Relief for distress, no matter how caused, when
its magnitude is greater than a local calamity; and Edu ca ti on of
our membership, in order that every Mason may do his full part
in helping solve the vexing questions which today harass humanity.
The Association is possessed of no authority over any Grand
Lodge, and it seeks none. Rather is it the purpose to inspire
Masons to develop in their respective Grand Jurisdictions, through
agencies already established, a clearer understanding of what
Masonry is and for what it stands.
I. RELIEF
The By-Laws of the Masonic Service Association contain the
following provision:
"Upon the occurrence of a disaster of greater magnitude than
a local calamity, the Grand Masters of the several member Grand
Jurisdictions within the division in which said disaster may occur,
shall appoint a committee to survey the needs and report forthwith
its findings to the Executive Commission. The Executive Commission shall thereupon take action on the report of said Grand
Masters to the end that necessary funds shall be provided and
properly disbursed."
. ·
In order to expedite the fulfillment of this provision, the following suggestions are herewith offered, to become operative i~­
mediately such a disaster occurs.
A. WAR. In case a .war is declared to which the United States
is a: party, the Executive Commission will meet as a body and
determine what action shall b.e recommended to the Member
Grand Jurisdictions.
B. CALAMITY. The Association having provided that one member of the Executive Commission shall be nominated by the·
Grand Lodges of each Division, it seems ad;visable to recommend that in order to assure prompt action, the Division Commissioner be considered the representative of the Commission.
If the Grand Masters will pursue the following steps when a
calamity occurs. the Commission will do its full part.
I. While the Press dispatches will under normal conditions
bring the calamity to the attention of the Chairman and
acquaint him with the probable need for action, yet the
Grand Master should notify by telegraph
a. The Chairman of the Executive Commission;
b. His Division Commissioner.

H1':1'0 '.U ' ON CORRESPONDENCE

81

2. The Division Commissioner should proceed to t~e scene
of the calamity, if the Grand Master calls upon him.
.
3. The Division Commissioner a,nd the Grand Master will
advise the Chairman of the Commission what funds for
temporary relief will be required, before the survey . o_f .the
situation can be made by the Grand Masters of the D1~1s1on .
4. The Grand Masters will meet at the scene of the · disaster
if possible make their survey, and advise the Commission
of the ste'ps necessary to cover such relief as is agreed
upon.
.
· d
5. Full co-operation of the entire Commission is promise .
6. Upon completion of the work caused by the emergenc.y,
an itemized report will he made to each Grand Lodge m
the Association.
7. Any Grand Master using funds from his own Grand. Lo.dge
treasury will have full assurance that a• pro-rata d1strihution of the expense, incurred with the approval of t.he
Division Commissioner, will be made.
II. EDUCATION
A. The immediate task which the Executive Commission believes
should be accomplished for the education of Masons, has to do
with the fundamental principles of the Fraternity, the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man.
We believe that these principles should be developed in a
way to make every Mason realize what there is in Masonry
which should guide him in his relationship to his fellow men .
In other words. we must explain · this divine · Fatherhood and
Brotherhood in terms of civic duty.
B. We shall prepare outlines of talks to be delivered by competent
brethren in the lodges, which will teach these fundamentals.
1. These outlines will provide for the communication of the
simple, basic, and fundamental ideas which brethren facing
the present crises need.
2. In calling the meetings at which! these talks are to be delivered, Worshipful Masters will be expected to urge particularly the presence of those Master Masons who have
heen recently raised.
3. The selection of speakers is to ~ begun on an equally
simple basis. The Grand Master, by and with the advice
of those who' are called into his councils, will endeavor to
find in each county, or in each Masonic District, a man
who is capable of taking these outlines and weaving them
into a simple, comprehensive talk, to be given in as many
of the lodges near his home as possible.
·
4. For meetings in districts, or in the larger cities where this
program is put into effect. the Commission expects to be
able to furnish speakers of more than local repute. · Their
talks. however. will be based on the same outlines. As
demands for this larger service begin to accumulate, the
Commission will arrange for bookings from the office of
the Chairman of the Commission.
,
S. As far as possible, these talks will be given on a volunteer
hasi~. The Commission hopes that thf' Gra;nd Masters will
be able to draft, as speakers, men .of. talent whose usual
vocations prevent their makinl\' a business of Masonic lecturin~. but who, on the other hand, desire to render se.rvice
to the. furtherance of this great cause.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

It is said that one time a visitor to an Insane Asylum inquired
of a solitary attendant who was guarding a large number of in~
mates whether he was not afraid of their uniting and making a
concerted effort to escape. The Guard, with a shrug of his shoulders, remarked: "If them guys had enough mind to get together
on any one proposition they wouldn't. be here."
That there has been "a meeting of minds" in a number of the
Jurisdictions . is proven by the action' of the Grand Lodg·e s of the
following States, who have, by appropriate actic;ms, become members of the new Association:

others for a sincere admiration of the Fraternity and w hat it stands
for. It is among the latter class that the true Mason is to be
found and the one with whom we should concern ourselves. The
other two classes are in the minority. The first is quickly and
easily satisfied and the second never.

82

Alabama-December 3, 1918.
Arizona-February 11, 1919.
Colorado-October 7, 1919.
Connecticut-February 5, 1919.
Delaware-October 1, 1919.
District of Columbia-May 14, 1919.
Florida-January 21, 1919.
Georgia-November 27, 1918.
Iowa-June 11, 1919.
Kentucky-October 21, 1919.
Louisiana-February 3, 1919.
Maryland-May 13, 1919.
Massachusetts-June 13, 1919.
Michigan- May 27, 1919.
Minnesota-January 15, 1919.
Mississippi-February 18, 1919.
Missouri-September 17, 1919.
Montana-August 21. 1919.
Nebraska-June 3, 1919.
Nevada-June 10; 1919.
New Hampshire-May 21, 1919.
New Jersey-March 16, 1919.
New Mexico-April 14, 1920.
New York- May 6, 1919.
North Carolina- }9.nuary 21, 1919.
North Dakota~June 17, 1919.
Oklahoma-May 1, 1919.
Oregon-June 11, 1919.
Pennsylvania-September 3, 1919.
Philippine Islands-January 27, 1920.
Rhode Island-May 19, 1919.
South Carolina-December 9, 1918.
South Dakota-June 10, 1919.
Tennessee- January 29, 1919.
Texas-December 2, 1918.
Utah-January 21, 1919.
Wyoming-October 9, 1919.
MASONRY: WHAT IT IS
Masonry means to a man just as much as he. puts into it and
just as much as he expects to get out of it. Some join through
curiosity, some to help their business or worldly standing, and

83

Delaware :
Masonry is not an end, but a means. A creed is but an expres~
sion of our faith. When the mind becomes satisfied with the form,
we miss the essence. The symbolism of Masonry is only the
ladder on which our souls may climb. Our symbols are meaningless until they are translated; and there are no words in which to
express them ; they require to be interpreted into deeds and impulses. If our Masonry is real, we cannot confine it to the Lodge
room nor to intercourse among the brethren.
Illinois :
The time has arrived in our Masonic evolution, when Freemasonry can no longer be considered as bound by state rights,
or limited to groups of individuals. To secure proper recognition
of the institution as a vital factor in human activity, there must
be organization and co-ordination. of effort.
.
.
.
In the period of reconstruct10!1 and .readiustment wh1c~ IS
taking place, Freemasonry should divorce Itself from the old idea
of state rights and commence to plan for a unity of purpose. This
can only be accompfished through some sort of central organization; call it whatever you may. Before Freemasonry is going to
gain recognition as a world force, it must break down· the barriers of jurisdiction which envelop each Grand' Lodge and must
subscribe to a general platform of basic principles.
It is now time for the Freemasons of the United States to lay
aside their prejudice, to forget narrow traditions of the past, and
commence to lay the foundation for a great organized' effort which
will make the fraternity a potent facto t in the affairs of the world.
Iowa:
To the average Mason-and he numbers 1,790,000 of the 1,800,000---Masonry, while possessing rare beauties of ritual, is a sealed
book, so far as the understanding of that ritual is concerned! To
him Freemasonry is a fraternity composed of the best fellows on
earth, wide in their sympathies and their humanities, good fellows,
prosperous follows, the kind of fellows w.ho are doing things in
this world, and therefore the right kind to be associated w ith. · To
his mirid, the Society of Freemasons has much in common with
other societies, and sometimes he is inclined to feel that the bene·
fits of some of the others are more certain.
Michigan:
'In social life, it must break down the artificial barrier of caste
and class which divide men and susta in the true and n atural aristocracy of character as against the false and accidental aristocracy
of birth, wealth or position. And it must go to relieve wherever
distress may ··be and the need of man may call.
In political life, it must demand the full and free rights of
the citizen to the equal protection of the laws and require that all

84

REPORT' ON CORRESPONDENCE

the powers of citizenship be wielded to maintain a government
existing for the benefit of the governed.
In religious life, it must demand complete freedom of decent
worship, attended with fair and free discussion that false doctrine
be eliminated.
In educational affairs, it must . preserve the right of the man
to think for himself, and maintain and support free schools and
institutions of learning where the race may be taught and the mind
made keen.
·
In industrial life, it must encourage friendliness and fair dealing. combating on the one hand those movements of terrorism
and destruction, and on the other those policies of oppression and
tyranny which breed hate and malice.
In all phases of human activity, it must sustain energetically
all movements which tend to raise the level of humanity, make
men free, and induce equal companionship and brotherhood and
oppose those which tend to create classes, enslave men's minds or
souls and destroy fraternity.
The record of a busy year follows; constitution of new Lodges
dedi~ations, laying of cornerston~s, and visitations, all advancing
the ideals of the Craft and · drawing the brethren into close communion.

N ew J ersey:
Much h;is been said-by some-of .the enemies of Masonry.
Undoubtedly we have many such-organi21ed and individualthough they are showing their inability to do us real harm. The
enemy ,we should most fear · is the enemy in our own ranks, the
man w~o, by hi! conduct, brings criticism and obloquy on our
Fraternity; and we must remember that all such-and it is useless
to deny that they exist-have been proposed for membership by
tv.:o Masons, investi~ated by three other Masons, and finally admitted to membership by a clear ballot. It has been said that
ev~ry organism carries within itself the seeds of its own decay.
This may also be true of organizations and institutions. The germ
that may injure us is no outside germ, however violent it may be,
bnt . qne of our own . making. We shall live or die as we deserve
to live or die, and the world will, in the long run, gauge us pretty
accurately and rate us as we deserve to be rated. No more deadly
danger can menace us, now or at any other time, than carelessness
in the admission of members and failure to rid ourselves of all
who prove themselves unfaithful or unworthy. Platitudes will not ·
save us, nor can we rely on boasts, however well-founded of the
great antiquity of our Institution, or of what it has don~ in the
past, to offset the deadly menace of even a seeming acquiescence
in the acts of unworthy members. The only Masonry that concerns us is t~e. ~fas<;>nry we are now living-the Masonry of today.
Our respons1b1hty hes here and now, and that responsibility concerns _ u~ and will concern, and, to a great extent, influence our
Fraternity after we are gone. The evil mind and the malicious
tongue will be more likely to injure us than all our outside enemies, however anxious they may be for our destruction. Our outside enemies are known to µs, and can be effectually met as the
history of. M~sonry. shows, t~ough some "."ould have us' expend
our energies m actively fighting them, while remaining blind to

' REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

85

the danger of the poison that may lurk in our own system. · Do
not be carried away by the talk of such, but let us do all we can
to put our house in order and to see that we are not harboring in
our own bosom the serpent that will sting us later on. Let us
resolve that. we shall not be carried away by a contemplation of
a vanished past, nor permit our vision to be continually fixed o n
a dim and misty future; but let us, on the contrary, realize that
for Masonry the only time is now ; that the responsibilities of yesterday can never be met, nor those of tomorrow till tomorrow
becomes today. Let us realize that yesterday is only a dream and
tomorrow only a vision; but that our to days rightly lived will make
of every yesterday a dream of happiness and every tomorrow a
vision of hope.
New South W ales:
The Grand Master ably expounds the law of "qualifications,"
sayipg in part:
"The qualifications of a candidate are threefold-mental, moral
and physical: mentally, that he be of sound mind, able to fully
comprehend the nature of his obligations and properly to appreciate .the· tenets and principles in which he will be instructed ; morally, that his conduct be virtuous and his character beyond reproach, lest the honor and good repute of our Institution should
suffer by the admission of. the unworthy; physically, that he be
o f 'able body and of limbs whole as a man ought to be.' This
latter is one of the universally recognized landmarks of Freemasonry, and distinguishes our Institution from all o thei;s, and
connects its present speculative with its old-time operative character. The laws of Freemasonry are of two kinds-local and universal. The former, enacted by each Grand Lodge for the government of its members, to be varied or repealed at . the pleasure of
the bodies who originally framed them, while the laws universal
arc those ancient landmarks which are irrevocable and not to be
altered or departed from by any Grand Lodge. This question of
what may constitute physical defect, moreover, is absolutely t h e
prerog.ative of the Grand Master alone, and in this Jurisdiction
the interpretation laid down in 1901 has always been a\iopted, 'that
unless the candidate be fully able to comply, with our rital observances, giving and receiving the signs, etc., .he cannot be admitted
to the Craft.'
·
" I yield to no one in my sympathy with those who .a re physically unfitted and otherwise qualified, but the ancient landmark
stands, and it is not to be removed or changed by any man."

West Australia:
The work of Masonry is silently accomplished in the hearts
of men, moulding and shaping the moral life and character; Sh e
w orks not in. the community at large, but in the innermost recesses
of the heart and 'soul, and we feel that, with' those lessons thus
placed, there can be no patriot excelling a good Mason. Masonry
teaches against pomp and display; Masonry teaches against confusion and loud acclaim. It is not the one who makes the loudest
noise who feels the deep.est, or is the best patriot by any means,
but the one who dwells on duty a·s exacting as necessity in th e
individual life, and who acts when duty calls.

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPO RT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MEMBERS
The words of wisdom contained in the excerpts under Canada
and Michigan express our views. We have too many members
and too few Masons. We hesitate to think where a large number
of them would be if the Fraternity was ever again subjected to
such a persecution as took place during the time of the Morgan
excitement. While we never expect or wish it, still speculating on
the idea as an abstract proposition we believe it would quickly
separate the wheat from the chaff.

Iowa :
There are some Masons who have such a holy horror of doiu!{
anything differently from what it has been done in the past, that
they would prefer to become petrified and fossilized rather than
incur the danger of making a new departure. Someone has well
said that there are only two classes of people wh,o never changt•
their mind-fools . and dead men. And we have been taught to
believe· that Masons belong to neither of these. It is most true
that Masons should ever act in conformfity to laws, rules, and
regulations, but it is also true that laws, rules, and regulations
must themselves change in order to keep pace with forward moving conditions and this fact was never more true than it is· today.

Canada:
Master's Rule.-Neither religion nor Masonry has lessened
power because they are controlled. Electr.icity unharnessed is a
destroyer like the anarchist mob-but controtled is under man's
dominion that profit and pleasure may result. Me~bers often come
hungry to our lodges-and have to go home unsatisfied, for lack
of libraries. for lack of kindling imrJ11lse, for lack of exoonents of
the ancient lore and golden store. Many lodges are suffering from
congestion in the scramble for "Minute-made Masons"-in the
plethora of degree work. Let the waiting list wait! A little importunity in knocking at the portals is not amiss. Finish ynur
work. Masters, remember, it is better to be great than to be hig.
We need more Masonry as well as more Masons! But both of
the. highest calibre, charact.er and· efficiency. Ours is the Art that
Butl~~. W~ m~,st no~ scamp .the work. Let them never be jl.!stifi--i in saying we simply Joined." Good work instils much of
real value into the very fibre of membership. Masters are not
merely charged to be of good morals. true and trustry but also of
great skill to propagate the knowledl{e of our Art_:_not merelv
courteous .. but also faithful leaders and instructors, thus renderinf::
and teaching others to render the highest service in a fruitful and
broad-visioned way-conserving and releasing potential energy.
Delaware:
He was· wise, too, in this:
. Again I have notice1 that many Masons after reaching middle
life cease to attend their Lodge, although they may continne to
pay their dues. If the pri!lciples of Masonry are good for youth,
they should orove comforting to age. If they are good to live by
they should be good to die by. I would suggest that the Maste~~
o_f each Lod'ge, by the con<iuct of the work and bv personal solidta- .
t1on, endeavor to retain the ·support and guidance of their older
members.
Illinois:
. The committee appa.rently believe in conducting Masonic
Lod~es for. t~e b~nefit of ~he . stay-a;yays. If a member of a Lodge
hasn ~ su~f1c1ent m.terest m its affairs to attend its meetings, he
certair~I:y 1s not entitled to. have sent to him each month, the names
?f petttt9ners under consideration in order that he may use the
mf~rmatton thereby gained to visit his lodge and cast a black-baH
against someone for whom he holds petty spite.

87

Maryland:
The work in the J odl{es ha~ heen rn great that little or no
social intercourse has been possible, and little. has been done b eyond the actual necessary Degree work. Are the new men1bers
Masons in the true sense, or are they merely members of the
Fraternity? The mere hearing of .the ritual and the memoriz.ing
of answers to fixed questions does not make a man a Mason. Are
the new members sufficiently impressed to become students o f
Masonry, to learn the symbolic m eanings of the Degr ees, to interpret the purposes and objects of the Fraternity. to realize that
a proper application of the teachings and principles of Masonry
spells better citizenship and better manhood ?
Michigan:
There are many, many good men who do not belong to this
great Fraternity of ours, and likewise, and alas, it is true, there
are some' men who call themselves Masons who are not worthy
the confidence or esteem of any man-they live for self alonesome there are who show an occasional burst of good felJowship
when they can see a direct dividend returned to thems elv~s . hut
the true Mason is a real man in every sense of the word-a man
who may fall short of perfection in many worldly respects. but
whose hand. heart and soul are dedicated to real Friendship.
Morality and Brotherly Love-a true Mason is of pure mind an<l
with ideals that are lofty and unselfish, and with a full and just
regard for his fe llowman-the t rue Mason can look underneath a
ragged coat, overlook human faults that are there, yet find a pure
and unsullied heart and charact er ; the true Mason can make frien.ds
easily and keep them, while some men are prone to turn them
away as they acquire a little more money or prominence '.n the
community-the true Mason is a b eliever in the Golden Rule. to
do unto others as we would wish that they should do unto us.
New York :
The othet view of Masonry to which I ·have alluded is that
the Masonic Fraternity should be a body of carefully selected men
whose object in bec-omine; Masons is to increase their opportunities for doing good in the world, no matter whence the call may
come, and in th is way gaining t he recognition of us by the world
in general as an institution devoted to the wo rk of lessening the
sorrow and distress of those less fortunate than ourselves. N o
greater bar to our general r ecognition as a wo rld-wide agency fo r

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

g.ood can be found than the belief so generally held by those outside our Fraternity, that our activities are devoted to our own
kind only, and surely we have done much to make that belief a
fair and reasonable one. Probably there is no Mason, however
unworthy, who would not like to feel that his Fraternity holds a
high position among the beneficent institutions of the world; but
how ~any me!llbers have we who are willing to adopt a view and
work m accordance therewith, that will raise us above the level
of a sect ·and place us in the proud position of a great civilizing
agency devoted to the service of mankind?
There are not wanting entirely some signs that this vi'ew of
Masonry is gaining recognition among thoughtful Masons, · and if
we are to endorse and act upon that view we must cease to allow
0}1rselves to ~e lulled into insensibility by the voice of the profess10nal Mas?nic orator, who seeks to please us by praise, and who
does not himself know, or dares not tell us, of our danger. ' One
such hopeful sign is the recent formation of the Masonic Service
Association of the United States, to which I have referred.

market with no individual responsibility attending is, to my mind,
wholly unworthy and Masonically unclean.

88

New Zealand:
It is sometimes said that a Mason should always be given
preference by a Mason~that when there is a· contest for some
post between one who is a Mason and one who is not, though the
non-Mason may be the superior in intellect and qualifications for
the position to be filled, still it is the. duty of a Mason who ma:;
have the gift of office to ·give the preference to his brother Mason.
I refuse to subscribe to that doctrine. I believe that every brother
in this hall tonight believes that a man who is placed in any posi. tion of trust, if he desires to be true and faithful to that trust.
must see that the person who is best qualified for the vacant post
gets it, and that it is neither his duty nor his business to prefer
one who belongs to the Craft. If he did so he would be acting
dishonorably, and if there is one thing above all others that a
Mason should be, he' must be an honorable gentleman. Moreover
he need not prate about his honor. You will find as you mov~
through life that there is a tendency on the part of some persons
to consider that honor is a rare quality. I have had some little
experience of humanity, and I hold that the tendency of the greater
part of our race is to be honest. I always look with suspicion
upon the man who boasts about his honor, and would lead you to
believe that he is a superior sort of person, who is not as other
men are. When you come across a man of that type beware of
him, and watch him.
.
'
Another type that you will meet occasionally is the hypocrite,
He is rarely met with in a Masonic institution, I believe, but on
some rare occasion you may come across him. Beware . of his
unctuous smile; do not be deceived by his oleaginous manners.
Of all the detestable creatures that ever existed, the hypocrite is
the . most detestable. I would, I believe, rather meet a coward
• than a hypocrite, because the coward may sometimes be constitutionally afraid, but there is no excuse for the hypocrite-none.
Ohio:
. Guard well the doors of our Lodges; let him who seeks admission prove his worthiness. The unworthy must not enter and the
ttriclean must be exterminated from our ranks. That ~an who
accepts Masonry as a commodity to be purchased in the .open

89

South Australia:
It seems to me that we cannot be too careful. We know perfectly well that recently there has been a great poptllarity in the
Craft, and that · a great number of people have been anxious t?
join. That is a time of danger. I am not concerned whether 1t
is going to cost us a little more or not. I think our one concern
should be to safeguard our portals, and to take every step, even
if it costs us more than the present system, to make it more difficult for undesirables to obtain admission to our Lodges.
Utah:
Closely related to the subject of the last paragraph is this,
which looks to the insidious work of those who would clamp upon
every applicant their own restrictive, peculiar mould. The maker
of cre·eds. is at work in this particular as in the other. Among the
evidences of his presence just now in mind is that which shows
him insisting that applicants for the degrees must not only accept
his individual shibboleth as to Deity, but must go to the absurd
length of avowing a firm belief that this is "the essential landmark"
of Masonry. As though a candidate is in a position to make pronouncements concerning the "landmarks." Could folly further go?
MINISTERS
As Masonry regards no man "on account of his worldly
wealth or honors," there should be no reason why Ministers of
the· Gospel should be given preference over any other Brother.
It tends to create a privileged class.
Iowa:
· Just why a minister should be exempted from paying dues I
have never been able to reason out. If he truly desires to become
a Mason, and if he respects at all the relationship accorded to
him by initiation, then he surely ought not to wish to be pauperized by special provisions of this character. He does not enter
the precincts of a Lodge as the representative of the Almighty!
He comes in as "a man, free-born, of lawful age, and well recommended." He dbei; hot come into reform the Lodge, any more
than the Lodge· imdertakes the task of reforming him! He comes
in on a common level, as a man among men, seeking for himself;
and endeavoring to. help others to seek, the light. If some of his
brethren feel kindly enough toward him to wish to pay his fee, or
to contribute his d"ues, well and good. It is their privilege, and
if the pers·onal touch is added to the ceremony by this mark of
especial favor, he is to be' congratulated. But it should be a manto-man proposition, per!jonal in its character, typifying brotherly
love before and after the ceremony of initiation. Then the present
of the degrees means something more than a reduced railroad fare.
Florida:
The system of granting immunity from fees and dues, to min·
isters of the gospel, has become so thoroughly ingrafted on the
Masonic jurisprudence of Florida, that we know it would be like

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

di~turbing a hornet~' nest to make any effort looking to a change.
We have for .many· year~ thought that the entire principle was
wro!lg, but as 1t has been m force for a very long time, it is doubtful 1f any change could be effected.
Maryland:
The one hundredth anniversary of Solomon ~s Temple Lodge
was al?prop~!ately ce!ebrated, and among the reminiscences is the
following:
A s1de-hght on the esteem· entertained· for clergymen
in the early pa_rt of the last century is shown in the vote of December 22, 1825: Voted, !hat Rev. Samuel Judson be invited to attend
trye next regular meeting, make a prayer, ·and listen to a Masonic
discourse by Reverend Brother Benjamin Wood and to partake of
the refreshments furnished.'. All of which he tlid, though he was
not a Mason."
THE MISSION OF MASONRY
In the inquiry sent to the various Jurisdictions, the question
was asked, "Has Masonry as an Organization in your Jurisdiction
performed, contributed to, or assisted in any public or civic act
or dc;ed in the last year?" We regret to say that this question was
generally answered "No." The explanation or excuse was that
the Lodges were too busy conferring degrees. Particular attention
is called to the excerpt under Quebec.
Manitoba:
. If ?Ur Lod~es were op.en for the discussion of subjects that
will arise affecting the social welfare of the people, it seems to
tne! a great deal of good could, directly and indirectly, be done.
This wou!d make every Lodge a thought center of educational
value ~o its members. The course laid down should be merely
educational. Ca:e should be taken that no resolutions were even
presente?, certainl)'. not passed, that could be construed in any
way to interfere with freedom of thought and action among our
members ... No Lodge should be allowed to subject its members
to a. defimte cours.e for definite social or political action. The dis. cuss~ons. should simply be to the end that the members through
hearing the pro and ~on C?uld b~come better informed and better
able to carry out their social duties to the betterment of mankind.
Should we not. then. change our customs somewhat and
allow freedom of discussion in the important years that ~re to
come? W:ha.t better and what saner force could educate for tolei·ance, patr.1ottsm and good citizenship? This, it seems to me, is a
powerful. ins~rum~nt; Freemasonry should seize upon it to fulfill
her miss10n 1~ building character, and in teaching duty to God, to
c?untry, to neighbor and to self. In this common meeting ground,
rich anu1 poor, emplc;i);'er and employee, conservative and radical,
all classes and conditions of our brethren. could harmonize and
educate .one. the other. The. Fraternity affords ideal auspices in
such a situation as we are facing. Her stability, dignity and repute
are almost a guarantee of proper administration.
Nebraska:
There never was a time in our history when the necessity for
cool heads was so apparent as now. It is no time for anyone to

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

91

start rocking the boat to see what is going to happen. We ·shall
not hope to stop the wheels of progress, but this is no time for
wild experimentation either in social, economic, or governmental
affairs. It is a time when fundamental loyalty to a few ground
princioles of Americanism are demanded of every citizen, and if
there be amongst us those who shall dare raise the note of anarchy,
then America must ·be big enough and brave enough to squelch
the voice of the anarchist whose only word is destruction, and
who never has one constructive thought ti) add to t he life of
America.
Nevada:
Our humble opinion is that Masonry must keep abreast of
the times. She must be a center of perpetual radiation, and throw
her ennobling influence in the public scales for the uplift of fellowman, and for the betterment of our civic life. The aftermath
of readjustment is upon us and Masonry's success depends upon
the part she plays in active service for man and for t he reasonableness and righteousness of public policies. Masonry must
broaden. There is much work beyond the conferring of degrees.
Not only must we lessen every vice and enlarge every virtue \n
the community, but ·our duty is to continue this work in state,
nation and world.
New Hampshire:
We like these words of his under Minnesota: " No Mason
can be loyal and true by sitting down and chewing gum. He must
work and dig in every way that opportunity opens fo r him." A
Craftsman must have definite things on hand to do, and he must
fill his time with positive service and good in the doing ther~of.
Quebec:
The call of the hour is for service. We cannot hold ourselves withdrawn in the chill and sterile region of mere formalism.
We cannot neglect the great currents of thought and action that
flow aroun d us. We must justify ourselves anew with innumerable
proofs of our humanitarian mission. The mere survival of an
organization is not irrefutable proof of its value. We were never
meant for an ornamental tree. Our Fraternity was planted to bear
fruit. If, in the days to come, it brings forth nothing but ornamental leaves, it will either die of self-disgust, oi the ax will be
laid at its root. If, in the opinion of mankind, the Masonic Fra~
ternity does not justify itself as a constructive power in this constructive age, it will gradually subside into that unfathomable
oblivion where so many other institutions have been engulfed.
Days are coming when institutions such as ours will h ave to stand
for something, or stand aside.
We •have in the past been too hampered by close drawn legislation, which has tended to strangle all initiative and independence of spirit. We need to make a new alignment that our thought
forces may wield some influence in the world. Let us be done
with merely marking time, mere useless drill, and, keeping in mind
the high purpose and . ideals of our institution, trim our sails to
meet the current of present day thought. The reference is particularly to that time honore d barrier to the discussion of national,
political and religious subjects, which might tend to cause difference of opinion. That has served its purpose, and it seems to me,

92

93

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

that its usefulness is past. It was made for an age when it may
have been expedient. · But the law of life is growth. No generation can prevent the growth of future generations, by fixing in
accordance with its ideas, the specific conditions under which the
future generations are to live.
I do not expect to see Masonry as a·n organization entering
into the conflict of life. Indeed, I would deplore any effort .to
make our association an active agent in contemporary affairs,
unless conditions were most extraordinary. Nor is such a procedure necessary; for, while the test of the coming days is a test
of the organization, the final answer is to be given by each member. The justice' of our claims is substantiated by the individual.
·Even as the old time monarch proudly declared, 'I am the State,'
I would that you and I and each of the brethren would proudly
affirm, 'I am Masonry.' For so I am. The character that I show
to the world is the character which the world attachs to my belov,ed
institution.
·

than debate. They knew from common report, that their Masonic
brethren would be their friends, come weal or woe.

South Australia:
The mission of Freemasonry is not to make bad men gobd,
but to make good men better. To make bad men good is the mission of the churches, and apropos we are reminded of a saying
we once heard: " The Methodists pick a man out of the gutter,
the Baptists wash him and the Congregationalists starch him.''
Vermont:
There is one matter that appears to your committee as deserving immediate consideration. We do not believe that any extraneous matters should be brought before either Grand Lodge or
·any Subordinate Lodge, taking the time and attention that should .
be devoted to Masonic work. While we may approve of the sentiments, if delivered in the proper place and at the proper time, we
must register our disapproval of their being brought up in a Masonic meeting, duly opened for transaction of Masonic business.
As a warning against innovation we call attention to the
remarks on Thrift and Salvage made in the opening session of the
Grand Lodge. The speaker. was not a member of this Grand
Lodge nor of any Subordinate Lodge in this Jurisdiction and held
no official position that entitled him to speak from the Most Worshipful Grand Master's station in the East. Nor is the Lodge room
a market place Dr an advertising bureau and while we · yield nothing to any man nor any body of men in the matter of patriotism,
this is not the place to market the wares of either individuals or
the government.
Virginia:
Why did 1500 young men, springing into the ranks. fpr desperate emprise, in all the excitement incident to their leaving home
and country, pause to seek membership in our ranks? Brother
Morecomb, in the American Freemason, says that all we do is to
repeat ritual and confer degrees, and on that assumption as to
conservative jurisdictions like Virginia, advocates our adopting
French ideas. He wants lectures and discussions of philosoph1cal
and political questions introduced and encouraged in Masonie
Lodges. Were this the common practice, would those 1500 young
men have · sought initiation? Oh, · no. Their motive was mutual
self-help, brotherhood. They knew that Masons. did things rather

Utah:
In seeking to vitalize its principles by_ red-blood s.ervice, .~ur
Fraternity may find it necessary to part with some of 1t~ familiar
trappings, and to slough off so~e of the ex.crescences wh1c,h developed · in times when no compelling need gripped the worlds heart,:;trings. To say that these things must not be; _that changes must
not come, or that there must b~ no r~al readius~ments to meet
new conditions, would be of a . piece with .the ~ctlon of ou.r government, had it insisted on arming our soldiers in !'.ranee with the
flintlocks of the Revolution, or have· sent battleships of the type
of the old " Constitution," or of the ''Chesapeake," to run down the
submarines of the Hun !
NUMBERS
It was believed that with the end of the war would come a
reduction in the number of applications. for membership, but
figures do n ot indicate that such is the case. Masonr?" should .not
endeavor to lay its claim to distinction on mere numerical superi?rity. We are old-fashioned enough to think that we can acc?mphsh
more good as an Organization by being select as to quality, and
lim ited as to number, rather than letting down the · bars with the
idea that because· a man joins the Fraternity he naturally absorbs
at once all of its teachings and so becomes a benefit t o himself
and all mankind.
.
Our activ'.ties should be devoted to instructing and developing
the ideals of the vast number of initiates we have taken in during
the past two years, rather than to continue the mad rush for members. This is going to be "some job." Viewed from the standpoint of attendance or practical results it seems that a large number of our Members have satis~d t heir curiosity, or secured the
priv:lege of wearing an emblem, and are now content.
District of Columbia:
We all agree that Masons are made too fast in the~e days; · we
wonder where the material is coming from and what induces .the
many to apply for. admission. to. the Order. The grea.~ war ius.~
ended is, in my mind, the principal cause. Th.e word Masonry
was passed from mouth to mouth, a nd those without became anxious to affiliate with an organization that has stood fo r so long
and for so much.
Georgia:
All the American Grand Lodges show a remarkable gain,
many reporting the largest increase in hist?ry. N ot only in. num:
bers has the Craft gone fo rward, but also 1~ .keener concept10n ot
the educational side of Masonry. O pportumties have been offere d
in the way of special programs, district '?eeting~. and schools of
instruction. There seems to be the growing desire to learn more

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
94

95

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of Masonry than the recitation of a ritual in a Lodge room. ·. It
appears. that ~he gravest danger Masonry faces within is ritualistic
pomp, m which t~e. parade of e~blems, the egotism of profound
speec~es, and a m11ttary conc:eph_on of perambulations occupy the
most important part. Perfection m all ceremonies is necessary but
!f this is all, then Masonry possesses the same results as of a fam1shed man placed at a table with showy liaen and luxurious service
and left to starve for food.
··
·
The serious reports of increasing non-attendance at Subordinate Lo.dge .c ommunicatiot?-s are ~ue apparently to the fact that all
of the time 1s aliotted to ritualistic ceremonies, while the Master is
!"ever a~le to set t~e Craft :i-t )abor under good and wholesome
mstruct10n. 1:he ~11ghtly grmdmg out of candic;lates may make
numbers, but 1t will never make Masons."
Idaho:
We are strongly of the conviction that the desire to hurry
n;en through the degree~ of Masonry is bor11 of a misguided ambi!1<?~· When a man ap~ltes foi: the degrees of Masonry, is elected,
m1t1ated, passed and raised, this period should be made one of the
impressive times of his life, and any short cut that detracts from
the occasion is unfortunate. All such practices as shortening the
ti.m~, and cu.rtai)ing: the degree work, have a tendency to commerc1alt:i;e the mst1tut10n, and cheapen it in the estimati'on of the
candidate."
·
We have been wondering, as have many others just why so
man)'. w~re seeking admission in our fraternity. Grand Master
Travis gives us a word that he!ps .. H~ says that, possibly, in these
da)'.s of change ~nd decay, our mshtuhon may be attractive because
of its long survival through all sorts of storms; that this has been
so beca~s.e of its being founded upof! sound principles of truth;
that pehtwners are commg to us qmte naturally even as ships
seek a safe haven in the time of distress.
'
Manitoba:
Along with the care in the choice of officers in our Lodges,
I should like to counsel as of even greater importance the most
scruf?Ulous supervi.sion in !he selection of candidates. Many are
seekmg membership and with the return of more settled condition~
our increase will be larger than ever. The Lodge which becomes
tainted with the spirit of commercialism and has. regard for numbers rather than material is making a fatal blunder which results
in injury to the entire Craft. While it is impossible to make a
rule determit?-ing qualifications for membership, I atn of the opinion
that an applicant should have proven his worth, and we are safe
in taking the closest possible measurement, assuring ourselves that
he has been a worthy citizen, a good neighbor, and has not defiled
his soul's temple .
Maryland:
The work in the Lodges has been so great that little or no
social intercourse has been possible, and little has been done
beyond the actual necessary degree work. Are the new members
Masons in the true sense, or are they merely members of the
Fraternity? The mere hearing of the ritual and the memorizing
of answers to fixed questions does not make a man a Mason.

Michigan:
Great numbers have been added to the Craft, indeed so constant has been the alarm at our doors that we sometimes wonder
if the doors have been guarded as strictly as they should be, and
perhaps we have not always been as careful as. we ~1'.ould have
been. We do not want merely Masons, but active ltvmg stones
to be built up in this our spiritual house, men up<;>n whom we can
confer rights and benefits .and. who .at th_e same ttme confer ben~­
fits upon us who by their hves, mtelltgence, and example, will
help to ador'n and beautify the Temple.
Nevada:
For the past four years we have said our say on "Speed.o"
Masonry. The Craft has a clear, strong purpose. It under It.es
character culture 0 betterment, attainment. It solemnly asks its
members' to live for something, to lift men up; not getting and
possessing but becoming and being; This aim and purpose it
urges senbusly and they must be kept in view and pursued with
perseverance. All hurr~ing f!lethods rob its ~im and purpose of
vitality. They detract fr_om its power o_f serious usefulness, a!"d
in Masonry, as well as m the world without, a purposeless ltfe
must ever be a failure.
·New Hampshire:
This Grand Master expresses the feeling that in the smaller
outlying Lodges is to be fo!-lnd the grt;atest promise for the future
-the cities are over-organtzed. It might be properly added that
in the country Lodges we are apt to find more of the real Freemasonry than elsewhere. Such t~ke their Freemasonry ~he: more
seriously and develop the Masomc character, true to basic ideals.
New York:
The wave of prosperity has come to Masonic Lodges. There
never was a time I believe in the history of our Craft when so
many men · are k~ocking at' our doors, and I am quite sure a.l so
that there never was a time when so many young men are seekmg
admission into our Order. The war has made Masonry very,. very
pop.ular. . And all this places upon your shoulder and ~pon mtne. a
responsibility to see to it that our work does not consist merely m
grinding out degrees, but that we take these you_ng men that a;e
coming into the Order and educate them and mstruct them m
what "Masonry" means.
Quebec;
Yet one more striking feature of British Masonry is the ex•
treme care with which the portals of the Lodges are guarded from
the profane, the discouragemen~ by so~e of the Lodges of large
membership, the horror of hurrymg can?1dates th,rough the degrees
and of multiplying work, and the evident desire to .regard the
Lodge as a social meeting place f_or its. i:nembers, a kmd of club
in a way; where none but congemal sp1nts are supposed to seek
or to obtain admission; instead of being, as we fear many Lodges
on this side of the water are, mere factories for the production
and increase of Masons.

96

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Utah:
. Practically every Grand Jurisdict_ion repo_rts a y~ar° of unpr_ecedented increase i1) numbers. To many, this furnishes occa~10n
for congratulation. To us this fact affords reason. for serious
concern. Membership in Lodges is not synonymous with Masoi:ry.
Numbers may spell weakness ra.ther than .strength. If _a testing
time· should come, as a testing time came m the first. ~h1_rd of the
last century, there can be no doubt but that the hum1hatmg ~xpe­
riences o-f the Anti-Masonic period would be repeated, multtph~d
manyfold. because of greater numbers. Button Masons can shµ
0ff their Masonry as easily as they can detach the emblem from the
lapel. It behooves the leaders in our various Grand Lodges to see
to it that the conditions necessary to growth, to devel~pment,. are
provided, so that an experience similar to that set forth m !he sixth
verse of the thirteenth of Matthew may not come to bhght and
decimate the ranks of the Fraternity.
Wisconsin:
Th·e re are times when prosperity is _the t~ue te~t o_f characte:.
The material prosperity of the Craft m W1sconsm 1s best evidenced by the large increase, in m~mbership as shown by the re~­
ords in the Grand Secretary s office. As to whether or not thts
is a healthy growth, remains to be seen.
The spirit of unrest permeating the world toda)'., the tendency
to relax from high standards, cannot but show their effects ~pon
this great Fraternity. Reports indicate, with but few except10n~,
that every Lodge in the state is buried under ":n avalanche of p~tt­
tions; two, and sometimes three and four meetings a day are .b.emg
held in order to keep up with the work. Under such condttto_ns,
what is the inevitable result? Brethren, I fear that w~ a;e turn.mg
out machine-made and not hand-made Masons. H~:V t <3 It possible
to properly instruct candidates under s~ch ~oi:id1~10~s ~ Let me
ask you Masters of Subordinate Lodges m this 1unsd1ct1on: Ho.w
often during the past year have you r~ad._ or cause~ t~ be rea? m
open Lodge, that portion ~f the constitut10n wherein 1s described
what constitutes un-Masomc conduct? Let us follow up and pay
more attention to the · newly made brother. It only takes t~uee
months to make him a member, but it takes _years to make h1!11 a
Mason, especially if he is left to shift for himself and stray mto
forbidden paths.
ORDER OF THE DE MOLA Y FOR BOYS
Masonry can do. nothing better than father the organization of
the sons of its members into a body from which could be drawn
our future memb:rs. The use of "the Lewis" in· some Jurisdictions
fills this want. The Boy Scout movement can be utilized. There
was submitted to the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands a
}!'roposition to a.d oi:t a ceremony whereby a Mason could have
his son dedicated to the Craft, having it done in the Lodge in
which the father was a member at a public function to which the
family and others could be admitted. At one time, we believe,
French Masonry had a form of Masonic baptism.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

97

The following is taken from an article by Brother Frank S.
Land, 32° K. ·c. C. H., published in the "New Age" of September, 1920:
The Order of De Molay for Boys is hardly more than a year
old, yet already it has attracted the attention of Masonic bodies
throughout the country. Perhaps a brief history of the inception
and ·dev_elopment of this remarkable movement will suggest some
of the possibilities inherent in it.
On March 19, 1919, approximately on the anniversary of the
martyrdom of Jacques de Mo lay, though not with the remotest
idea of signalizing the-anniversary in any way, nine boys, the sons
of Ma:son.s, held a meeting at the Scottish Rite Cathedral in Kansas
City, Mo., on invitation of the Social Service Department. Out of
this meeting the Order of De Molay was formally established and
Kansas City Chapter- was organized. Little was thought at that
time that other cities would be interested in its work. Teachings
along the lines of patriotism, good citizenship, clean living, courtesy,
good sonship and similar virtues which adorn the youthful character were inculcated in a general way, but the need of a ritual
which would appeal to the dramatic instinct inherent in youth was
early felt.
Such a ritual was provided by Brother Frank A. Marshall.
editorial writer on the Kansas City Journal, and from that time
the Order has grown with amazing rapidity.
.
At th_e present time the membership in Kansas City Chapter
1s approximately 1,000, and a convocation to be held on July 31
will i~cre'.1-se the number to approximately 1,200. Chapters have
been instituted at Omaha, Neb., under the sponsorship of the
Scottish Rite Bodies of that city ; at Trenton, Mo. under the
sponsorship o~ the York Rite Bodies; and at Kirksville: Mo., under
the sponsorship o"f the York Rite Bodies of that city. Additional
chapters are to be instituted in the next thirty days in Denver,
C~lo .. under the sponso rship of the Scottish Rite Bodies; Kansas
City. :Kans., under the sponsorship of the Scottish Rite Bodies· at
the University of Missouri, under the direction of the York Rite
Bodies at Columbia: and at the· University of Kansas under the
sponsorship of the Scottish Rite Bodies at Lawrence. 'More than
seventy-five cities have made inquiries relative to the movement
and already a Grand Council has been organized and exercise~
national supervision over the Order.
The ritual is composed of two degrees known as the Initiatory
De1rr~e and the De Molay Degree. The ritual lays stress on the
cardinal virtues which encourage boys to live clean healthful and
patriotic lives in all their relations as sons, brothe~s friends and
future citizens, and the o_bligati9ns assumed are such that, if faithfullv observed. cannot fail to raise the boy up into useful and honorable citizenship in the years to come;
Membership is restricted to boys between the ages of sixteen
and twenty, inclusive, of good moral character. Each boy must be
the son of a Freemason or the chum of a1 son. The members ·are
held to a strict ac·countability ton their conduct much stricter it
might he said. than that obtaining within the large'r fraternities. Any
tendency on the part. of a member to neglect his school work-for
a great number o f its members are in school-is checked summarily.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEN CE

98

99

REPORT O~ CORRLSPONDENCE

Anything in the nature of snobbery or exclu.siveness is rebuked
quite effectually.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
This is a subject that is dear to the heart of every America~,
be he parent or not, for the safety of our institutions rests on this
foundation. Masonry ~hould interest itself in the bette~ment of
our public schools, and all questions affecting them. It is not a
matter of being act:ve in politics, in the narrow sense of the,
word but taking a part in the practical affairs of the local Communi~y, State and Nation. Questions of religion, individuals, creed
or color should not enter into it.
That some Jurisdictions are realiz'.ng their responsibilities. is
evidenced by the action of Louisiana and North Dakota, which
deserves special mention.
District of Columbia:
:Resolved that the Masonic Service Association. be requested
to consider the advisability of establishin~ or supporting by e'?-do'Yment scholarships lectureships, fellowships, and professorshtp.s m
memory of the Masons who have. died in . the .World War_, m a
non-sectarian and distinctly Amenca,n Umver~1ty located m the
nation's capital, and that preference m bestowmg of the sai;ne be
given to Masons, espec!ally those who have been wounded m the
World War or the children of Masons.
. .
.
Resolved that this Grand Lodge assures the Masonic Service
Association that this Grand Lodge would be ple:ased to co-operate
in a movement that will help complete the proJect fi;st prop?sed
· by George Wa.shi~gton. in his will to estabhsh a national university in the nat10n s capital.
Georgia:
We do not think this a political question at all, and are. certain
it is not "purely" political in the tru.e . sense of t~e rule which forbids Freemasonry to engage in pohtics., By th1.s rule we U'?-~er­
stand that the Lodge is not to dabble w1.th . quest10ns of a poltttcal
nature in a partisan manner. But surely 1t. 1s pot true that, as soon
as a question begins to interest the pubhc, 1t must no longer be
permitted to interest Ma~on~y. ?u~h a rule would make M.a.sonry
a perfectly harmless instttut10n, 1t ts tru~, but a~ ~h.e same tu:;i~ it
would make it a useless one. The partisan poli!1c1ans by se1zmg
a question cannot withdraw it from the attention of the moral
institutions of the country, like Freemasonry and the. ~h_urch. It
is preposterous that the selfish and oftimes corrupt pohttc1ans :;hal,~
say to them, ." Now you stand back while we settle the question.
Louisiana:
"Whereas: Illiteracy, ignorance ~nd superstition. a~e fertile
conditions for the propaganda of 'isms that are antagomstic to our
form of government, and
.
"Whereas : There is at present a bill ·~e.fore Con~ress for _the
purpose .of providing funds . for the promotion of pubhc education,
and

"Whereas : Freemasonry having at all times championed the
cause of education, liberty and equality ;
.
"Therefore, be it re§iolved, that this Grand Lodge proclaims
its s1:1pport to t~e caus~ of education in general and to our Free
Public Schools m particular, and that it is the wishes of 23 008
Mas?i;is of thi.s state that the senators and representatives f;om
Lou1s1ana t? our National Congre ss be requested to vote and work
for the Smith-Towner Bill, H . R. 7 and S. 1017, Sixty-sixth Congress."
·
Nevada:
.
The Lo~ge and its members should be wide-awake to every
interest tendmg to the betterment of the community in which they
have their being. Questions of public morals and good government are their concern and particularly should Masons stand back
of the developmept of a p~blic schobl ~;:stem which will provide
abundant and easily accessible opportumttes to an education such
an education a~ .will prep~r~. tJie future citizen for his gr~wing
personal and c1v1c respons1b1httes and opportunities.
Granted the fact, and who can deny it, that the public schools
of our country are the very foundation stone of the republic it
seems to me that we who have the proper devotion and love of ~ur
country and her institutions must take a decided stand in favor
of the public schools and compulsory education.
.
~he J?Ub!ic sch?ol-the little red school house if you will-it
is pnmanly the child of Masonry and we must not see it perish
from the face of the earth, It is only through the public schools
that w e may h<?-pe to educate the masses of our. people and only
~hrough ed~catton of the masses may we aspire to the world's
ideal republic. Ever remember that, my brothers and give your
support at all times to the public schools-to the Limit.
. If a .child is allowe.d to grow up without such an education as
will fit 1t f~r ~he duties ~nd responsibilities of citizenship in a
der:nocracy, 1t is to the disgrace of both nation and Craft, for
ne1t~er God nor man can make that loss right. We boast of our
pubhc schools, but they are not doing the work and we as the
Sons of Light are not doing our share as we sho'uld. The examination of the soldiers in cantonments revealed the sad . fact that
ne~rly one-fourth of the men, between 18 and 31, were unable to
v:nte a letter home, or to read the reports or newspapers. Statistics also . show that 37~ per cent of the young men who were
brought mto the camps and cantonments were discarded because
of some physical defect.
North Dakota:
Your committee on · patriotic service to which was referred
those. portions of the Grand Secretary•s report, dealing with the
English language measure, and the Four Minute Men would refer
to the recommendation of this committee appointed by the last
Grand Lcidg~, .recommending tha! the legislature be urged to pass
:an act .Pro'.'1dmg that the Enghsh l.~guage be the medium of
mstruct10n m all elementary schools m this state. While indicating a friendly attitude, it was impossible to gain the consent or
the .m~jority . in the . Senate to !he introduction of this measure.
A s1m.1lar measure, mtroduced m the House of Representatives,
was killed by a vote of two to one. We deplore a condition in

hEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

100

l:tt

our state that would permit of s~ch a stand by ;0ur politihal
ers We regret that in the situation such as this there s ou
e
fou nd three Past Masters of Lodges in this state who ~efuse t.o
introduce this simple American measure, apparently P'¥~_ng ~heir
personal interests ab.ove the interests of their ~o'-!ntry.
. 1 ~ s ow~
the necessity for concerted e.ction by patno.ttc .assoc1attf ns. o
America if anything is to be done to Amencamze .our ore1gn
b n re~idents. A bi.11 has recently been introduced m Congress
p~~viding for the appropriation of $100,000,000 fhor rShe .Pho;otlo~
of education in the United States, known as t e m1t - own<;
bill Among other things it is provid.ed th~t before any of this
mo~ey shall be available to any state, its legislature. must pass af
act providing that the English language be the basic language o
instruction in all common school~.
.
. .
f
We reiterate our faith in the principle of Americal1za.ttl~ 0
our common schools by the passage of an act by. our eg1s a _ure
prohibitini? the use of any language other than English as a medium
of instruction.
0

Oklahoma:
At the October 1919 meeting of the Sc?ttish Rite Bodies at
M Al ter Oklaho~a a ~esolution was unammously adopted pro. c. esf 'an a ro r'iation of One Hundred Thousand Dollars to
~;~~~ga bruildinEPfof the benefit of Masonic students at Norman,

Okla,P;;\~i:·purpose is to erect a~d ~aintain a p)ace wh~re Mason~

of Masons may have suitable accommodations a.t !h1:

~~fve~~lt~ at actual cost, also that a certain portio~ of th.e bmldmg
will be given up ·to the accommodation of an Acacia Society at the

univTsity. mind this is one of the greatest and substantial things

that h~smlver be~n unde_rta~ec!1m~Y aihn~ti~~r~n~f 2r~!~~da;;-s:h~
1
~~udde~~~ }0t~~eu~:e~~ft ~ are, this will help toMfill a l?n~ f.elt nee~
d h Id have the commendation of every
ason m 11s gram.1
:;tn · <l· ~lon The good brethren of McAlester Consistory may .well
J;ns r~cud ~f this laudable undertaking. May th~ Great .Architect.
of fhe Universe bless and prosper them and this very 11nportant
work.

1

0

South Dakota:
Brethren I hope that the time will come in this f.:ir land· of
when it' will be absolutely necessary that every chud betwe~n
ours
f six and sixteen must spend at. least. five h?urs a ·day Ill
the age Ile school I believe that the time is commg. when "."e
~i~u)dbtake a sta.nd against the narhrow. b!gotry
t~eth~~rhcf;a~
school And I want to say to you t at 1~ 1s my e 1e
fi sub._ ect for consideration in a Masomc Lodge, anq I want to
t fuither that it is time the Maso_ns of every ~ubordmate. Lodg;e
i~Ythis state knew who were runnmg the publtc sch.oo_ls 1_n their
owns . And I want to go a bit further and say that 1t ts .time the
kfaso~s of this country wv~e considering and understandmg what
is heing taught in the public schools.

h°\.

Wisconsin:
·
Th G and Master was asked by someone to lend his sanction
for a p~op~s;.tiop to amend the constitution of the state so . as to

101

make school attendance at the public schools compulsory and to
abolish all parochial and private schools. Matters of this nature
are entirely foreign to the Masonic institutions. A campaign along
this line would cause bitter strife and work to the prejudice of the
Masonic institution.
In discussing"the public schools of the land,. Brother Pettigrew
(South Dakota) said:
·
"I believe that the time is coming when we should take a stand
against the narrow bigotry of the parochial school. And I want
to say to you that it is my belief that it is a fit s ubj ect for consideration in a Masonic Lodge, and I want to say further that it
is time . the Mas_o ns of every Subordinate Lodge in this state knew
who were running the public schools in their towns. And I want
to go a bit further and ·say that it is time the Masons of this
country were considering and understanding what is being taught
in the public schools."
The subject was considered of such importance that it was
referred to a special committee, who, in reporting, said in part:
" We believe that every boy and girl in America should attend
the public schools until he or she shall have completed a comprehensive common school education. And we believe that all instruction in the American common schools should be given in the English language."
The discussion of this subject comes perilously near the consideration of political topics. Nevertheless, no o ne can doubt that
a republic cannot exist where the great mass of its citizenship is
ignorant. A great degree of intelligence and education is essential as a foundation up on which to base a democracy. The t endency of the public school is to broaden and enlarge the vision
of its student body. The parochial school is n•cessarily restricted
and founded upon bigotry.
QUESTIONNAIRES
That the average application required from "a profane" to a
Lodge does not call for sufficient data to enable the Lodge generally to get an idea as to the qualifications of the applicant is
evidenced by the adoption of questionnaire forms by several jurisdictions. Some of the questions asked in these are not relevant
or proper and others are entirely out of order.
We particularly commend the letter used by the Worshipful
Master of the Lodges of Michigan. We also refer to one adopted
by Mexico which was published last year in our report on page
eleven.
Michigan :
I am advised that you have expressed· a desire to become a
Freemason. Such an important s tep in your life should not be
taken without the most serious thought and consideratio n on your
part and for this reason I am enclosing this questionnaire which
you will fill in and return to me on or before the· date named on
the bottom of the last page.
. These questions are as important to the lodge as they are to
you, because we want to become acquainted with each other, yet

102

with due respect and courteousness each to the other, before proceeding to that line. o~ association fro~ which there can be no
retracing once the die 1s cast.
. .
Masonry is a system of Morality, based upon the belief m the
existence of God, the immortalit)'. o.f the soul an4 !he brother~<;>od
of man, yet it. places no restnct1on upon reltg10r:i or political
opinions but strives after light .and truth, endeavormg always to
harmonize the highest and best m man.
. .
Masonry is not a charitable organization, nor an assoc1atton
of men seeking the delightful pleasures of a .work-a-day ~orld, and
that is why we demand your approach to its portals with a prepared mind that you are worthy to become a Mason.
Your answers are to be given with a truthfulness that may
never be questioned. Diligent search !ls to your. cha_racter, companions habits of living, and recogmzed standmg m the community 'will be started immediat~ly, a_nd if y~:>U are found wor!hY
and well qualified, you will be notified m due time as to what action
the lodge has taken.
Respectfully yours,
..............................·............................

The Worshipful Master.
QUESTIONNAIRE
1. What prompted you to apply for membership?
Answer .............................................;.................................,.....,.................
2. What particular reason caused you to place your application in Ashlar Lodge No. 91?

3. AWh=~ ·1~..··;;~;·;···~·~~?"··::::::::::.· ······5t·~-t~···p~~~~~t···~·~~«iii"f~~···~·£

..

·

REPORT ON COl{RESP ONDENCE

REPOlff ON CORRESPONDENCE

your h ea! th?
Answer ......................................................................................................
4. What illness have you had within the past five years?
Answer ..........................................................:··:·· ......................................
5. Give name and address of the phys1c1an who treated you.
Answer ................................................:.................................................. ;.d
6. Are you married? .................,,............. Have you Q.een marne

hefo7~ \·~···;;~·;;~···P~~~;·~~~ wife living? ............,.......

Are your domestic relations congenial? ....................
8. How many children have you?...................... Is your mother
livinf i~··:;;~~~··f~ther living? .................... Is he a member of the
Masonic F raternity? ....................
10. Are any of your brothers members of the Masonic

a

16.

What religious belief did your father and mother adhere

17.

Do you carry any Life, Sick or Accident Ins11rance ?

19. Will the expense of entrance fee prove a hardship to
yourself or fam ily? ....................
20. How long have you resided in Detroit ? ....................................
21. Are you a citizen of the U nited Stat es ? ............~.......................
What nationali ty are you ? ............................................................
.. 22. .If not a citizen, what excuse have you for not taking out

.

cittz23.shfs ~~P;~~~ t;;ii~T.th;t··M~~~-~~Y···i~ ..~···b~~-~~-~j~~t...~ociety?

24. W hat value do you place on the social relationship of our
Fraternity?
Answer ......................................................................................................
25. Would you or do you disregard distinctions, which society
has made between individuals, relat ive to their station in life
wealth, religious opinion, politics, etc. ?..............................
'
26. Are you at variance with any Mason whom you would
rcgar~ as unworthy to acknowledge as a brother ? ....................
2 . What is your present vocation ? ..............................................
28. How long have you been engaged in your present position ?
......... /. .............................
_29. In the space below state how you have been occupied
during the past ten years, whether employed or not.
AS
UND ER
In the service of
(Nature of Position (Name and Present
(Name of Employer)
or Occupation)
Address of Manager)
30. Have you sought any assistance in filing the above
answers? ................... ..
A frank and voluntary expression of your views together with
r easons or explanations is invited and will be g iven' due consideration in .the ~eneral ~umm !lrY ?f this teport.
.
Mat! this questionnaire m the accompanying envelope not
later than ..............................................................................................
Respectfully yours,
Worshipful Master.
Applicant's signature ..................................................................
Address ....................................................................................
Iowa:

F ratlf~1. tj;' ··;;~;·~···~~pi~;~·; a member of the Masonic F raternity ?
Answer
............................................................................................
12. Are y~~-·-~cquainted with any Ashlar members? · Give
names below.
.
· h h
13. Give names of five reputable busmess men wit . w om
you are intimately acquainted.
.
.
14. How long have you known the fnend with whom you
placed your application ? ................................................................
15. Are you
member of any church? .................... In what
faith were you baptized ? ................................................,.....

103

I.
3.
4.
5.

6.
8.

Q U ESTIONNAIRE
(Answer questions fully)
Full name .................................. 2. Address ......................................
Are you a citizen of the United States? ........................................
What has been your occupat ion during the last ten years? ........ ..
If employed, give employers' names and addresses fo r the last
t en years ................................................................................................
Single, married, divorced or widower ...... 7. .Wife's name ......
Nam es and ages of children .......................- .......................................

104

9.
10~

11.
12.
13.
14.

15.
16.

17.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE~CE

Names ages and relationships of other dependents, if any ········
Are yo'u living with your wife? ...............................,............................
Have you been married before? .....•..................................................
Have you any physical disability?.···············:···:································
To what organizations, or associat10ns (rehgious, fraternal, or
otherwise), do you belong? ····································:······:·······'··········
·Have you made provision for yourself and family m case of
your disability or death? ······························:··················:········:·········
Do you understand that Free. M!lso~ry 1s not primarily a
charitable or insurance organization: ··:·······:······························:··
State your reasons for seeking adm1ss1on mto the Masonic
Fraternity
......................................................................................
Give names ~~'c:i" addresses of three men .t<? whom you can
refer other than those already on the petition.
Nam~s ...................................... Addresses ......................................

Indiana:
This questionnaire must be answered and filed with your
petition.
Name .....................,..........................................................,...........................
1. Residence Address ................,.:...............................................................
2. Residence telephone ..............................................................................

'3.
4.

~laccuepa~~onhu~i~·e·~·~·-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::J.:

5.
telephone ···················:···········;,·····························..···················
6. Business
Where do you want your mail sent .................................................

7. Date and place of birth ........................................................................
8. What school or schools did y~u attend? . ..........................................
9. What is (or was) your fathers occupation? ..................................
10.
(or was) your father a Mason? ···········:·······..·································
11. Is
If so, in what Lodge was his membership? ....................................
12. Are any of your brothers Ma~ons ?...............:.....?................................
13. If so, in what Lodges are their memberships ...............................
14.

15.
16.
17.

:9.
20.

21.

-A~~--y~~--~~~-~i·e-d?··:::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

If so date and place of marriage ........................................................
Give 'list of places you have lived for five years past ...............,..

·11·~~~-··;~~---~~~;··b~~·;;··<l~;;·1~<l···l~~~;;~b~;~~ii;··~i;;···~;··~~;~p·e-~<l~<l··-~;
expelled from any fraternal organization. ·····················:····:·········
Give names an'd addresses of three of Y.our most mtm~ate
personal friends, other than those who signed your appltcation .........................................................................,..................................

··c;i·~~---~~;;;-e·~·-·;~x··~<l<l·~~~~~~·-·tiT·t·h;~~---~~-i~~e-~~~~:···~t·h~;····th.·~~
above ..........................................................................................................
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · • • • 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 H 0 • 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0' o 0 0 0 0 0 e O O O O O • • o O O • o 0 0 0 0 0 • • 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 0 • 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .. 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 . . . 0 0 0 0 0 0 h 0 "' 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 0 0 0 • • 0

Date ....................................................

Signed ..............................................

Virginia:
Here is another argument in favor of our rule forbidding investigating committees on petitioners:
Some years ·ago this Grand Lodge (Nevada) ad?pted a fC!rm
of petition for degrees, on which were endorsed certam categorical

REPO.RT ON CORRESPONDENCE

105

que.s tions to be answered in writing by the committee of investigation. I have found committees are making returns without
answerin~ ~hese. q.uestions, and it is my opin_ion, the requirement
works d1stmct miury to the Craft. Committeemen hesitate to
return an unfavorable report in writing, and petitions are reported
on as favorable and the applicant rejected. The matter has been
of such frequent occurrence as to justify attention. I believe the
Craft would benefit by committees reporting direct to the Master
of the Lodge. I recommend that committees of investigation on
petitions for degrees or membership report secretly to the Master
of the Lodge, who shall announce after the final reading of the
petition before the ballot is to be taken. that the report of the
committee is "favorable" or is "unfavorable" or is "divided" as t he
case may be.
. Perfunctory rep<?rts are the usual thing, and they are a poor
reliance at best. Ot course. an untavorable one is equivalent tr•
stating that one, at least, of the committee votes a black ball.
Wisconsin:
Where "bulletins" of this nature (giving names) are sent
thro~gh the m!lils to all the members some of them are pretty
certam to ._fall mto hands for whom they were not intended. In
our own little community of two thousand inhabitants we have
four persons named, "W. H. Thomas." Two are members of our
L<?dge and two are profanes. The danger from making use of
this means of disseminating information is obvious. But why use
an:>'. method? The member, who habitually attends the communications of his Lodge, does not need to be told who is petitioning
for the degrees. He will know by having been in attendance. It
ts the stay-at-home member, who is too indolent or too indifferent
to attend to whom the appeal is made by such means. If such
member receives such a "Trestle Board" and he has no objection
to those whose names are listed he still remains away; but if he
has a. personal ~rudge or spite to satisfy, he attends on th~t 01;1e
occasion and reiects one who perhaps is more worthy and who
would make a better member than he is himself. Why gratify this
class of. members by enabling them to get in their work with the
least possible expenditure of time and energy on their part?'
RELIGION
Any attempt to limit or prescribe the religious opinions or
views of an individual member should have no place in Masonry.
"How good and how pleasant it would be" if, in place of attempting this, we would revert to the Ancient Charge, reading as follows:
. "But though in ancient times Masons were charged in every
country to be of the religion of that country or nati~n, whatever
it was, yet it is now thought more expedient only to oblige them
to that religion in which all men agree, leaving their particular
opinions to themselves; that is, to be good men and true, or men
of honor and honesty, by whatever denominations or persuasions
they may be distinguished."
If we would remember and follow this, utterances and arguments that produce nothing but discord or bad feeling would soon
disappear,

R£PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Alabama:
"Declaration of Masonic Faith as to God and the Holy Bible."
A We believe in God, that He is the Father of us all and
that He is the Creator of Heaven and Earth and all things therein.
We believe as we teach, that we should reverence and adore Him
and implor~ His aid in all our laudable undertakings, and este.em
Him as the Chief Good.
B. We believe, as we teach, that no atheist ca~ be made a
Mason, and that no one should be made a Mason without a profession of belief in God.
C. We cannot affiliate, Masonically, with one who denies the
existence of God.
D. We believe that the! Holy Bible, . th.e First Great . Light in
Masonry is more than a symbol. We believe, as we teach, that
the Holy . Bible, sometimes in o~,r work c~l.led ~.h~ "Ho~y S~rip­
tures," and sometimes called the Holy Wntmgs, 1s th~ mestt.mable gift of God to man· that Masonry has accepted this grac10us
and divine gift as containing an exl?ression of ~od'~ Will, and
that its precepts are the rule and guide to our faith m God, and
our unerring guide in the discharge of our duties to God, our
.neighbor and ourselves.
E. We believe that God and . the Holy Bible are essential
to Masonry.

Iowa:
We very much regret that any such action was. taken. (Referring to Alabama's Declaration of Faith.) Such a procedure
comes da,n gerously near forcing the local Lodges to subscribe to
a creed. We wonder what the Grand Lodge proposes to do m
those cases where Lodges composed of men of independent thought
refuse to act upon such a communication.
It is just as if the Grand Lodge were making a n effort to get
each local Lodge to enter. into a written contract to be. religious.
It is very much like insisting that they should enter into a solemn
covenant w hich not only comprises an entire page of printed matter, but is subdivided into five distinct heads, and it is also required
that the covenant be under seal. It is like harking back to the
hard and rigid rules of N ew England Puritanism and from this
it is but a short step to something far more drastic in t he way of
religious exactions. To us the whole business smacks of a certain
Pharis'e eism on the part of its promoters and is very suggestive
of an effort to parade one's religion before the eyes of men. It
runs counter to the broad universality of Masonry which is ever
for breadth and liberty in matters such as these and never for
narrowness. It suggests the opening' wedge of a process of re-·
ligious persecution. What a pity it is that the brethren of Alabama
cannot take their religion for granted, but must thus protest it in
a solemn writing under seal. Nothing is ever gained in the cause
of pure religion and unde filed by the effort to make it compulsory.

District of Columbia:
He compliments our correspondence report by quotin~ ~rom
it, but queries our opinion that Protestants are the only Chr1st1ans.
There rriay be individual Christians in other creeds, but the segregated Armenians (of whom we were writing) are further from the
common acceptation of Christians than either !he Arab oi: .the
Hindu, though they may come nearer to a dictionary definition.
·Emma Goldman, Alexander Berkman and Thos. J. Mooney (all
Russians and of Greek religion), would fit the dictionary definition.

Utah:
And the " Sacred Volume of the Law"-does that refer to some
particular edition of the Bible (the Oxford, or the American
Revision)? If we hold with Robert Morris and P. G. M. Owen
Scott of Illinois, formerly Grand Correspondent, and others, the
Bible, preferably, the King James version, is the only "Book of
the Law" that can be contemplated or considered. He, in common with. not a few Grand Masters and Co mmittees on Correspondence, appears to take the position that because a man does
not accept a particular creedal sta,tement he is "outside the pale
of Masonic acquaintance" and is still in Masonic dark ness. This,
he declares, is the state of that man "who has no religious faith
or who does not accept the sacred Book of his religion as the
great light in Masonry directing h is paths to the temple of happiness and pointing out to him the whole duty of man." A trouble
with most of us is that when w e set out to deal with a matter ·of
this sort, we have only one general standard, and that bears our
individual trademark.
are almost certain to take the position
that the "religious faith " referred to must meet the requirements
with whkh v:e are famrliar or it is unfaith. The. Grc:at Teacher
was a blasphemer to the religious leaders of his day, and why?
Simply because the religion he taught differed from what they had
come to hold as the only religion.

106

Florida:
We heartily agree with Brother .Goodw~n in his aq~·umen~s
against pre-written prayers by chaplains, which are published m
the proceedings. \Ve have always been against "canned prayers,"
and cannot help but feel like it is sending out advance press .notices t o the Throne of Grace, and we all know what press no.t1ces
are.
Illinois:
The Grand Lodge (Nova Scotia) then suspended business,
formed in procession under the direction of the Grand Marshal
and marched to St. Paul's Church where a sermon was preached
by T. C. Tellor from the text "Our Father Which Art in .Heaven."
The sermon was all right but the many references to Jesus
Christ will hardly find favor with many of those Maso~s who hold
t o the opinion th<1t such references are largely sectarian and for
the most part should be avoided in all Masonic addresses. The
Grand Master, Donald F. F raser, read an address to his Grand
Lodge of more than passing interest.

107

we

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

The Chaplain prayed that all Masons " may be set on the right
hand of Thy Blessed Son, and hear His most joyful voice," etc.
And. c1oncludes the prayer with " Grant this 0 Father for Jes us
Christs sake, our onlv mediator an d advocate." We call attention to this, not because we do not believe in prayer or because
we do not hold presumably the same belief. as t hat of the Chaplain,

i"

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

but for the purpose of emphasizing the tendency in certain Grand
Jurisdictions to confound the Christian religion and Masonry. It
is our conviction that such a prayer, in view of all the circumstances, can hardly be justified in connection with a purely Masonic
function. The Christian religion and doctrine and Masonry are
not synonymous terms.

should permit a potpourri of work in his jurisdiction, but it is a
mighty good thing ai:id highly educational in effect; to witness the
work of other jurisdictions. Freemasonry will never amount to
anything until the Fraternity is taken out of the hands of the
ritualists and its affairs given over to men who look upon ritual
merely as a means to an end, and who are broad enough to see
in the Fraternity a potent force for social and moral development
and the· upbuilding of the human race."
We cannot have too much of this teaching. It is badly needed.
We know of Lodges which consider the conferring of degrees and
the installation of officers as all there is of Masonic work.

~08

South Carolina:
The prayer beginning "Our Father which art in heaven,"
referred tb by Brother Jenks, is very, very erroneously called the
"Lord's Prayer," meaning thereby the prayer of Jesus Christ. The
real "Lord's Prayer," that is, the Prayer of Jesus Christ, is to be
found in the 17th Chapter of St. John. The prayer referred to
by Brother Jenks is one of the oldest prayers to Our Father we
know of, and has been in constant use by the Jewish people, almost
word for word, from their earliest known history.
When His Disciples came to Christ asking Him to teach them
how to pray, He rebuked them by giving them the prayer they
and their forefathers had used from time immemorial. We consider this rebuke one of the strongest the Master ever gave to
His disciples. Thus the Mason, be he Jew or Gentile, Mohammedan or Parsee, Buddhist or Brahmin, can pray without offense
in the hearing of his brethren of whatever creed to "Our Father
which art in heaven."
RITUAL
In this day and age men are concerned with the vital affairs
of life. There was undoubtedly a time when ritualistic work had
its place, and a certain charm, but we must realize that the old
order of affairs is passing away. A certain amount of ritualistic
work is necessary and proficiency should be insisted upon, but
wh~n it becomes the sole object of a Lodge, it can have nothing
other than a bad effect.
We believe that it would be a material gain, if our ritual was
rev:sed to the extent of eliminating certain of the monitorial work
and repetit' ons and short:ning other portions of it. The best
ev:dcnce that too much ritualistic work does not appeal to the
avera""e member is the lack of attendance.
Especial attentio111. is called to the excerpt under Iowa.
lll'nois:
We are delighted, indeed, with his out~poken remarks U?der
Texas regarding those who look upon the ritual as all there 1s of
Freemasonry, and quote from him as follows:
"It is a matter of sincere regret that Freemasonry has not yet
proceeded far enough in its evolution to divorce the ritual from
the principles of the fraternity. Today, there are numbers of
Masons who regard the ritual as Masonry and everything of a
Masonic character is judged wholly and solely by adherence to
certain ritualistic practices which are generally accepted as having been handed down to Masonic posterity by King Solomon,
t.he alleged first Grand· Master. It is true that no Grand Master

109

Iowa:
What can we say in our defense? Do we want to plead that
the great number• of new recruits has swamped us with ritualistic
work, making necessary the drafting of every officer for that alone?
Will they not reply that from their new vision of things the ritual
can be considered to be no more than the "setting up exercises"
of Freemasonry, and but a small part of her real work in the
wbrld, measured by our own statement of the things for which
she stands? When they point to the thousands of our "deserters,"
our unaffiliates, and charge that they have permitted themselves
to be suspended for non-payment of dues because they failed to
see our real and vital purposes being carried out, what shall we
say in reply? If they bring us into a courtj martial, to try us for
consecrating ourselves to mere mechanical memorizing of a ritual,
spending too much time preaching principles, living too much in
a dead past, and wasting our opportunity to become a vital force,
working as an institution for the good of mankind, what then can
we possibly plead as a defense?
We have at times felt that there was great danger of its degenerating into a mere lifeless mechanical ritualism and thus losing
its power to fulfill any great vital function in human life and of
becoming- a society of men who forever theorized about the true,
the beautiful, and the good without doing very much to bring these
into actual effective life among men.
Nevada:
He decided that the degrees could not be conferred on affirmation, without oath. That student of Masonic law, Br.other George
W .. Chase, thought otherwise, declaring that in so doing he saw
no violation of the spirit of Freemasonry. The Committee on
Jurisprudence in Maine so held and the Grand Lodge of England
decided that a Quaker's affirmation was binding.
The general rule, in most American jurisdictions, is to the
contrary. Irt courts of law an affirmation is tantamount to an
oath. Why not in Masonry? We recall nothing in the ancient
customs and usage that would forbid.
New Mexico:
There are few Masons that have not seen the impressive
degree work lack that dignity and efficiency that it should have.
Too frequently some member with a keen sense of humor fails
to realize that there should be no "horse-play" when the candidate
is receiving his first and usually lasting impression of the institution.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE~CE

110

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Oregon:
Complying with a petition signed by several Masters, a remarkable resolution' was presented:
"\Vhereas, believing the Masons of Oregon are desirous of
teaching true Masonry, and our attention having been called to
that section of the ritual which refers to the grave, as follows:
'And they buried the body in a grave six feet due East and West,
and six feet perpendicular,' which statement is not true to practical use; nor has the number six any connection whatever with
Masonry, nor to the Mystical Numbers of the Symbolical Degrees
of Masonry, which numbers are three, five and seven; therefore,
be it
"Resolved, that we are in favor of the Grand Lodge striking
out that section of the ritual in which reference is made to the
six-foot grave.
·
"Resolved, further, that we favor the insertion of the following into that section: 'And they· buried the body in a grave seven
feet due East and West, five feet perp·endicular, and three feet
wide.'
"Resolved, further, that this Lodge indorses the above resolution, and recommends that the same be adopted by the Grand
Lodge."
South Carolina:
We sure were astonished to read this paragraph in the Report
of a Special Committee on Ritual :
"Third, the Grand · Master has recommended that this committee be requested to draft and submit a short form of opening
and closing a Lodge when working in the first and second degrees
at the same sessiotl, as in suspending labor in the third degree
while doing work in either of the other degrees. We know of no
Masonic usage or authority of any kind to justify such a practice.
In our opinion no necessity or reason exists to warrant a Lodge
from deviating from the regular form of opening, and closing in
each of the three degrees as now prescribed by the ritual of this
Grand Jurisdiction. We are further of the opinion that the proposed short form is un-Masonic and contrary to the ancient landmarks of Freemasonry, and if, as the Grand Master reports, this
practice is common among the Lodges of this Jurisdiction, it
should be discontinued."
No wonder the above was promptly tabled. I would like very
much to see the American Lodges adopt the particularly short ·
form of passing from one degree to another used in Scotland.
The whole ceremony does not occupy over a minute, and is done
by an exchange of signs and knocks which cannot be explained
here. In Scotland, where I was raised, Masonically and otherwise, a brothei: who visits a Lodge while in session does not require
to ask the Tyler what degree the Lodge 'is open on; nor to consult the Lights, he knows by the difference in time between the
knocks which the Tyler gives. Likewise, the Tyler is not told
the degree the Lodge is working on, he knows by the knocks
given by the Inner Guard, an officer unkn own in the United States,
save perhaps in Pennsylvania.
The ritual, itself, is but the shadow of the cohesive mass of
fundamental truths embraced in Masonic teachings, and to say
that a candidate is proficient and entitled to advancement merely
b.ei;:aµse h e has mentally mastered its language, is to substitute

111

the shadow for the substance, a nd the forms and cerem onies for
the truths.
Utah:
The question was asked " can: a Quaker desiring to join a Masonic Lodge be permitted to affirm ?" To this the Grand Master
replied in the affirmative and added "it is the conscience of man
t~a~ bin~s hi_m in his oblig'!-tions."
Decision No. 13 presents a
s1m1lar situation. The quest10n was asked "may a candidate having conscientious scruples against swearing be permitt ed to affirm ?"
To this the Grand Master· as before replied in the affirmative.
Not so, th e Committee on Jurisprudence. That comm ittee stated
that both of these queries should have been referred to the Board
of Custodians and that neither one of them should have been answered by t'h e Grand Master. In support of their position the committee cited the action of Grand L odge in previous, similar cases. It
appears that it has been held by this Grand Lodge that "the Grand
Master has no power to allow' a Lodge to change any part of the
ritual in or\ler to suit the religious views of a profane who wishes
to become a Mason.'' . This is the· law of Tenn essee. But we feel
that some laws are honored in their breach, and this to us appears
to belong to that class. How or why it should make any difference whether a man swears or affirms in such cases as those presented by these decisions is entirely beyond us. If a man is to
be considered suitable material for the degrees he should be allowed to do the one or the other as he may choose. In cases such
as this, as well as in some others, definite provisions, which seem
to approximate t? s.ec~arian religion we have the feeling that not
a few Grand Junsd1ct1ons go beyond what may be con sidered to
be their lawful province.
West Australia:
There is no doubt that ritualis tic work alone will not hold
the interest of the thinking brother for a very long period. Hjs
mind demands something more than that; he looks for some
knowledge of why Masonry is, what it is, what it can do; and it
should be the •particular care of every Grand Lodge to see that
some arrangements are made whereby brethren that h ave a desire
for knowledge may be satisfied so far as that may possibly be
done._ It needs no. arg?~ent to stress the fact that Masonry cannot live through ntuahst1c work alone, but requires the development of its philosophic, altruistic, and if we may say so, religious
aspects. It then becomes not merely form or ceremony bat a
living force, capable of exercising great influence upon the individual and upon the community at large.
Wisconsin:
A special committee to which this was referred reported adversely, ~nd reco mmended t hat the "mouth to ear1• doctrine be.
followed as closely as possible. W hy is it so essential that we
should have an absolute uniformity of the work? It never has
been attained under any system and never will ·be as long as human
memory is fallible. It is merely chasing rainbows an d besides
it involves a r adical violation of Masonic oblili:'ation's.
· '
Brother Vanderlieth of Nevada and Brother Michie have
engaged in a lengthy and learned discussion as to th e length of

112

REPflRT ·ON CORRESPONDENCE

Aaron 's beard, as mentione'd in the 133d Psalm. Brother Vanderlieth contends that the word translated "skirts" in the autn1Jrized
version should be "collar," and that therefore Aaron's beard was
of very ordinary longitude. Brother Michie contends that it went
down to the very edge or hem of his priestly robes and probably
· swept the ground, and fortifies his contention by quoting from the
original Hebrew and discussing the Masoretic points. He assures
us he has met three gentlemen, outside of dime museums, who
possessed such facial adornments. We do not wish to enter into
the controversy, but there is one argument that has not been
mentioned. We read in the book of Numbers that Moses took
Aaron's rod, which was of almond wood, and put it in the Tabernacle over night, and when he ·brought it forth in the morning
it ' had budded and then blossomed and brought forth fruit in a
single day. The record does not state, but we have no doubt that
Moses and Aaron had blanched and salted almonds from it for
dinner that day. Now it occurs to ·us that any old duffer who
was so full of virility that the dry . rod he had leaned on would
burst into blossoms and fruit at his touch would be able to produce a crop of whiskers that would be remarkable. No doubt his
beard was a whopper. The question is one of thrilling and vital
interest, especially to Masonry. Does not Anderson, in his book
of constitutions, published in 1723, say that:
"The Israelites, at their leaving Egypt, were a whole kingdom
of Masons, well instructed, under the conduct of their Grand Master Moses, who often marshall'd them intc;> a regular and general
Lodge, while in the Wilderness, and gave them wise Charges,
Orders, &c ?"
·
Aaron must, therefore, have been a Freemason and, as he
became Moses' successor, must have been Grand Master of Masons.
His beard, therefore, became a sort of Masonic landmark which
could not be changed. True, Mackey does not mention it in his
list of landmarks, but doubtlessly this was an oversight on his
part. If our belief in the extreme length of Aaron's beard is to
be thus swept away by some rash innovator we might even doubt
whether Moses was really Grand Master of Masons in the Hebrew
Expeditionary Force,· and where would the matter stor.? We
shudder to think of it, and are thankful to Brother Michie for having put the everlasting kibosh on Brother Vanderlieth's skepticism.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
One of the excuses for' the erection of the George Washington
memorial at Alexander, Virginia, is the fact that the Roman Catholic Church is said to teach that Washington was a Catholic, and
in the darkest period of the Revolution had Mass said at Valley
Forge, The Knights of Columbus have appropriated Lafayette by
the erection of a monument to him at Metz. So that we can at
least retain one of our Presidents, we are "reading into the record''
the writings of Brother Theodore Roosevelt.
Even with this we see no n,ecessity of erecting a memorial
to him. Time gives growth and strength to all things, however,
and perhaps in the distant future it may be possible to interest
lhe Fraternity in a Roosevelt memorial. So that there would be no

REPO~T

ON CORRESPONDEN CE

113

invidious distinct'.on, would it not be better to erect a living monument to all of our Masonic dignitaries or celebrities in the shape
of·a great National University at Washington, D. C.?
Los Angeles A. & A. S. R. "Bulletin."
Here 'are two interesting sideli~hts on our late and venerated
brother, Theodore Roosevelt, the first reprinted from McClure's
Magazine and from the pen of Brother John J. Leary, Jr., the
second excerpted from the Bulletin of Oriental Consistory, and
signed "E. A. R.":
"'As you know,' he said, turning to me, 'I am a member of
the local Lodge of Masons. You also know, brother, 1 violate no
secret when 1 say that one of the greatest values in Masonry is
that it affords an opportwnity for men in all walks of life to meet
on common ground, where for the time all men are equal and
have one common interest.
"'For example, when I was . President, the Master was Worshipful Brother Doughty, gardener on the estate of one of my
neighbors and a most excellent, public-spirited citizen, with whom
I liked to maintain contact. Clearly I could not call upon him
when 1 came home. It would have embarrassed him; neither could
he, without embarrassment, call on me. In the Lodge it was different. He was over me, though I was President, and it was good
for him and good for me.
.
"'I go to the Lodge, and even the folks who do not belong to
or believe in the Order, rather like it that I should go. They seem
to feel it is part of the eternal fitness of things. Whenever I
return from one of my journeys I always go there to tell of the
Lodges I have visited, in Nairobi, in Africa, in Trinidad, or the
quaint little Lodge I found away up on the Ascension River. They
sort of feel I am their representative to these Lodges, and th.ey
like it. There's a real community of interest.'

• • • • • •

"When Theodore Roosevelt was President of the United
States, and at a time when he and his family were living at the
White House, the gardener of his uncle, James Roosevelt, was
stricken with a serious illness which resulted in his being sent to
the hospital at Mineola,· L. I.
"The name of this gardenel'I was James- Russell, a member of
the Masonic Lodge at Oyster Bay, and a man who had been in
the employ of the James Roosevelt family for more than thirty
years.
"When news from home told oil the illness of this old family
servant, Theodore Roosevelt, the President of the United States,
sat down and wrote to his Masonic brother a long letter in, his ·
own handwriting, for the purpose of cheering him while suffering
from affliction "
District of Columbia:
We, the undersigned, your committee named for that purpose,
have given very careful and serious consideration to the pending
resolution which proposes that this Grand Lodge affix to the cornerstone of its Masonic Temple a bronze tablet or plaque bearing
the inscription: "In honor of Brother Theodore Roosevelt, who
assisted in laying this cornerstone,'' beg leave to report that, in
our judgment, the resolution should not be adopted.

114

' REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

While very many of the teachings and principles of our Order
were well exemplified in his life and conduct, his renown came to
him entirely through his efforts along other lines and was in no
way due to the things he did as a Mason; and, notwithstanding
the fact that our Craft most highly esteems the qualities of exalted
statesmanship and is glad to count among its members both of
the present and the· past very many great and good men who have
gained fame through their splendid services to our country, we
were early taught that "Masonry regards no man for his worldly
wealth and honors;" and therefore it is that it has not erected
and should not erect monuments in public places to the memory
of men who have gained distinction entirely outside of its service.
Texas:
You do not address me as a Grand Master of Masons, but
when you invite me to call your enterprise to the attention of
Texas Maso ns, and advise their friendly interest therein, I condude that it is in my official capacity that my interest is solicited,
hence in this reply I shall assume to represent what I conceive
to be the sentiments of Texas Masons.
To any eulogy of Colonel Roosevelt, the President, the Statesman, the Patriot and the man of letters, I add my hearty ~om­
mendation. His rugged honesty and splendid courage were typical
of the highest standard of Americanism. He deserved well of his
countrymen and received his reward: Beyond this, Colonel Roosevelt was a partisan, and his claim to enduring fame will rest upon
the viewpoint of the future American; certainly there are many
thousand Freemasons. in these United States who heartily disagree
with most of his public policies, and would not care to perpetuate
them in bronze.
·
.
The fact alleged that Colonel Roosevelt was an apt student
of Freemasonry and absorbed its lessons with· avidity is to his
credit, but hardly justifies a claim on the Fraternity for special
mention as meriting Masonic contributions towards a national
1nemoriaJ. ·
That the friends and admirers of Roosevelt, the man, should
desire to perpetuate his memory as a great national figure is quite
natural, but the Masonic service rendered by Roosevelt, the Mason,
so far as I am informed. was no1; such as to impel me to suggest
to Texas Masons that it is their duty to contribute towards a
national memorial.
Virginia:
.
There· was a lengthy eulogy of Brother Theodore Roosevelt,
who was a member of Matinecock Lodge, No. 806. Once, in New
York, the writer met some of the team who went to Oyster Bay
to participate in his raising. They said he was very emphatic in
insisting that the ceremony should be exactly the same as in the
case of all others.
SMOKING
While we believe smoking in the. Lodge room during the work
is not proper, still it is a question that · should be left to the individual Lodge or Master. The objection of ' one Brother should be
sufficient to prohibit it.

115

District of Columbia:
Liberty is our right to say and do what most pleases us provided it does not interfere with a like right of others. As the
right, pleasure and convenience of others are interfered with by
smokers, we have always thought smoking should be prohibited in
a Lodge room, except by unanimous consent. But we fear this
cannot be brought about. Consideration for others and politeness
seem no longer to be taught in the primary grades in school nor
in the homes of the great American public; so how can we expect
it in Lodge rooms ?

******
The following resolution was adopted (Maine):
" Res olved, ~hat smoking, C!r the ;ippearance of smoking, in the
Lodge hall, or ·m the preparation room, when in use for the preparation of candidates, in this Gran d Jurisdiction, is hereby forbidden. Violation of this regulation shall be considered a Masonic
misdemeanor."
It is a pity such a resolution should be necessary, but times
have changed. T he nation's constitution is being amended to prohibit, not in a Lodge nor parlor n or sacred place, but everywhere.
Illinois:
Your committee looks upon a Lodge of Masons in session
as one where members are all on absolute equality. Nothing
should be permitted that in any way intereferes with the rights or
comfort of any member. Smoking is very offensiv e to some men,
even to the ext ent of making them sick, and compelling them to
remain a way from the place where others are gratifying their
sensual pleasures. No Mason ought to do that which in any way
gives offense to any brother. That there are many who do not
smoke is evident in any assembly. That smoking, no matter how
fir!nly the habit is fixed, is not essential to members of Lodges is
evident. · In other places, churches, theatres, etc., these men go
and refrain from smoking. The Lodge should be held as sacred
and the rights of members as inviolate as in the other gatherings
,mentioned.
·
Iowa:
A fire lo ss of $1,200,000,000 would be heralded as a national
calamity, fo r such indeed it would be. Yet that in r ound numbers
is our annual tobacco bill.
I am menti9ning it only t o plead that when setting such fires
at least some regard should be observed for the rights of others-·
the abutting property, if you please, that may be more or less
damaged by your smoke. Ladies at banquet tables fr equently have
cigar or cigarette smoke puffed all over them. While some may
not mind it so much, yet others say that they would prefer as the
lesser . evil that the gentleman should fili his mouth with water
and puff that over them instead of the smoke, because the water
would soon evaporate · without leaving an odor.
As a safe guide for the din ing room, pass the cigars to the
ladies first. Then, if they light them, pass the box to the gentlemen. A fter dinner speakers will appreciate this rule. Smoking
in the L odge r oom during work is strictly "taboo" and Masters
are in duty bound· to enforce it.

116

H.EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Virginia:
The Gran<l Master (Wisconsin) refused to approve of a by-law
which prohibited smoking in the Lodge room during the session of
a Lodge. This also was done on the theory that the Master rules
and governs hls Lodge, and has power either to allow or prohibit
smoki.ng therein. Consideration for the place of itself ought to be
sufficient to prevent brethren smoking in a Lodge room while in
session. It would be just as improper as it would be for a deacon
of a church to smoke while listening to his pastor preach the
morning sermon.
THIRD DEGREE LECTURE
If Masonry is to consist of proficiency in coaching lectures by

all means the commitment to memory of a . Third Degree Catechism is in order.
When "traveling in foreign countries" the Catechism of examination is usually perfunctory, unless some good Brother desires
to satisfy his curiosity. There can be no doubt that there is a
great duty imposed upon Masonry at the present time. Learning
of useless set questions will not help it.
The excerpts. under "Quebec, West Australia and Utah" express our ideas.
Illinois:
There is absolutely no argument in favor of requiring candidates to pass an examination in the catechism of the third degree
more than to make the candidate's progres6 through Masonry a
little more burdensome and to exploit the pet projects of Grand
Lecturers. The catechism as now required from candidates is
entirely too long and as a result the examinations passed in
nearly every Lodge are far from satisfactory. Some of the keenest
and brightest men in the business world liave found it next to
impossible to master the long array of irrelevant matter which
they are required to learn in their Masonic progress. This whole
question ought to be solved by the preparation of short, concise•
catechisms embodying those essentials which every Mason ought
to know. It should then follow that every candidate be made to
master these, and pass a satisfactory examination thereon. Every
Masonic Lodge should be penalized which attempts to smuggle
through candidates improperly instructed, and every Master who
conducts an examination behind the ante-room door ought to be
deposed from office.
There are some things in our Masonic system, that every
Mason should know. For instance, how many Masons are acquainted with the five points of fellowship, wherein is to be found
a declaration of Masonic duty?
Nevada:
Under Arkansas we note that our brother is no stickler for
ritualism of the poll-parrot variety. Neither are we, nor do we
uphold any law making the right of franchise in a Lodge depend
upon the commitment of the third degree lecture. This lecture
should be committed just as the other two are. In this way the

REPO~T

ON CORRESPONDENCE

117

variou's lessons are thoughtfully implanted, and · a breadth of sympathy and a higher regard for duty are instilled.
He urges an edict requiring proficiency in the Master Mason'~
degree. Nevada has required this for lo! these many ytars and
was taken to task for it, but it has proved its worth, and now
it is pleasing to see many others coming our way. We' fail to
~ee error in requiring the third any more than in requiring the
hrst and second.
South Carolina:
The Jurispr'udencc Committee did not approve of a measure
requiring proficiency in the Master's degree as a prerequisite to
Lodge membership, as it seemed to deprive a Mason of a portion
of his rights without a trial. We confess we rather like the idea
of requiring proficiency in Master's degree. We presume proficiency is required in Wisconsin as in South Carolina in the E. A.
and F. C. degrees before advancement, and surely proficiency in
the Master's degree is equally as essential to the Mason as in the
lirst two degrees. The sooner we have all Lodge members equally
proficient in all three degrees the sooner we will have a Masonically educated Fraternity, and the sooner we make a start in that
direction the soon"Or the consummation so devoutly wished for by
all true Masons will be accomplished.

"WHAT HAVE YE DONE"?
All of the Grand Secretaries were asked in their opinion what
was the most practical thina done in their Jurisdiction last year
for the good of the Craft. Some of them replied as follows:
Alabama: We are erecting another dormitory at the Masonic
Home to cost approximately $50,000.00. We educate about one
hundred and fifty Masonic orphans. Some are no:.v in the High
School of this city and it is purposed to give them a collegiate
course.
Connecticut: Erected, at a cost of more than $225,000, a large
and commodious fireproof building to replace the old wooden
Masonic H omr at Wallingford. Individual lodges contributed a
total of $1304.73 to the Armenian Relief Fund.
Delaware: Steps wer~ taken to increase fee from initiates for
Masonic Home purposes.
• Georgia: Raising $100.000.00 by voluntary contributions, as au
endowment for Masonic Orphans' Home.
Idaho: The Grapd Master visited every lodge. The lodges
did nothing but confer degrees.
Illinois: Bringing to increased efficiency our Masonic Homes.
Kansas: Holding of district meetings in our 73 districts conducted by your Lecturer, which meetings have been held annually
for the past 15 years.
Kentucky: Supporting 365 children and 33 old women and
55 old men in our homes.
Louisiana : Steps initiated to erect a twenty-story Masonic
Temple in this city.

118

REPORT ON CORRE.SPONDENCE

Maine: By keeping out of public affairs; ignoring the Knights
of Columbus, and attending to its time-honored customs.
Maryland: We have done nothing radical. We are heartily
in favor of the Masonic Service Association, especially the edu"
cational program.
Minnesota:
An appropriation of $4000.00 for Masonic
Research.
Mississippi: Membership in the National Masonic Service
Association.
Montana: Think the loan of $7300 to Masonic farmers in the
drought stricken district last year o n small loans not to .e xceed
$300 to a case, without interest and payable "when able," might
come under that head. 2.-Voluntary contributions aggregating
$5000 were made to one of the smallest lod~es which lost its hall
by fire. No other hall in the town. 3.-'I;he establishment of a
perman'ent relief fund of $12,000, which enabled us to do this
needed .work and will enable us to continue it in future. 4.-J oining the Masonic Service Association.
Nebraska: I cannot recall any particular thing that was done
by our .Grand Lodge last year for the good of the Craft, unless it
might have been sending a committee to attend the Peace Jubilee
of the Grand Lodge of England, thereby giving our Grand Lodge
some information by the reports of the committee as to' Free- ·
masonry in England.
Nevada: Service in the Masonic Setvice Associations and our
Grand Master's (William B. S. Parks) address<;s for .the public
schools. ·
·
·
New Hampshire : Assessment of one dollar per capita for the
George Washington National Masonic Memorial Association.
New Mexico: We enacted a law requiring lod~es to pay to
the Grand Lodge the sum of $2 . annually for all Master Masons~·
of record .annnally for the Masonic Home Fund.
New York: Arranging for the erection of a Soldiers <J.ncl
Sailors' .Masonic Memoria.l Ji,ospital.
North. Carolina: Care of o rphan children of .'the state in our · ,,
Orphan Asylum at Oxford ·and care of indigent Masons. their
wives, widows, sisters and mothers in the Masonic and Eastern
Star Home at· Greensboro, it being ruh and controlled by the
Eastern Star and Masonic Orders.
North .Dakota: We have constantly kept ·befbr·e Clur mem~rs
their duties as men, as Masons and as good citizei1s: · Have di~
rected their attention ,,to the -essential Masonic dogma of. 'a belief ·
· ··
in one God, and its coro·l lary man's brotherhood. ·· · ·
Oregon : Commenced the ei:ection .of ho~e for indigent mem~ :;·
ben• and Masonic orphans. . .
South Car'cilina: The minli:num fee raised from $20 to $30
by the Grand Lodge at its 183rd Annual Communication, Dec. 10,
1919. No constituent lodge is allowed to charge less than $30 for
conferring the three degrees, except Ministers of God. The per
capita tax paid by the lodge to the Grand Lodge was not raised
in any way. The raising of the minimum fees · (I) will enable the
lodges to make larger gifts to Masonic charity, especially to the
Masonic Relief Fund of our Grand Lodge, and in addition (2) will

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

119

open the way for some lodges to own t heir own homes. Most of ·
our lodges now occupy rented halls.
South Dakota: Supporting the George Washin gton National
Memorial Association and the Masonic Service Association.
Texas: The ~otarv Cluh collected from various sources
approximate ly $9000. The Knights of Pythias collected approximately $4000. The Knights· of Columbus, who advertised that
they were going to pay dollar for dollar th e loss of their members,
collected in round numbers $3000. The Elks collected $2000, and
the Masons collected, and up to this date have spent in relie f
work. $61.835 80. and the Grand Secretarv has on hand something
more than $4000, making very nearly $66,000 as against the other
tigures which I have given you.
(Modesty undoubtedly forbade the Grand Secretary of Texas
fro m sending the above. It was discovert•d in a commi ttee report
on the wo rk done at Corpus Christi.-]. M. W .)
Vermont: Making certain a " Benevolent Fund" of goQd
amoi1nt.
·
Washington: Establishment of Research and Educational
Committee.
West Virginia: The authorization to bu ild a Masonic H o me.
Site selected, 62 acres of ground purchased, plans adopted. To be
erected at Parkersburg, Wes t Virginia.
Wisconsin : To postpone building a new Masonic Home building until prices of material and labor are more favorable, and levy
an assessment of $1 per capita on the Craft for 3 years, for building
purposes at the Home.
Ontario, Canada : Two things: Distributio n of about $75,000
among our aged Masons, widows and o rphans. 2.-The spreading
of the doctrine of mo re lodges a nd smaller membership.
Nova Scotia: Campaign to raise endowment fund for our
Masonic H o me .for aged members, their wives and widows.
Prince Edward Island : Brought about almost absolute uniformity in the r i-tualistic work throughout the jurisdictio n.

CONCLUSION
Brother Joseph W. Eggleston, of the Correspondence Committee of Virginia, refused to write a conclusion to one of his
reports, giving as an excuse that it would save some of his associates at the Round Table from the necessity of writing their own.
We are omitting a conclusion to this report, not for the same
reason as Brother Eggleston, but because our ideas and views are
exhausted, or embodied in the report itself. Like "K. C. B.,"
" I THANK YOU."
Yours Sincerely and Fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED,
Chairman.

•

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

121

APPENDIX
AMERICAN MASONIC GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter Royal Arch Masons-Frederick W.
Craig, General Grand High Priest, Capital City Bank, Des Moines,
Iowa; Charles A. Conover, General Grand Secretary, Coldwater,
Mich. 38th Convocation, Asheville, N. C., Sept. 26, 1921.
Grand Chapter of California-Harry Maundrell, Grand High
Priest, 650 Geary St., San Francisco, California; Thomas A. Davies,
Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. 67th Annual
Convocation, Long Beach, April 19, 1921.
Gtneral Grand Council, Royal and Select Masons-George A.
Newell, General Grand Master, Medina, N. Y.; Henry W. Mordhurst, General Grand Recorder, Fort Wayne, Ind. 14th Triennial
Assembly, Asheville, N. C., Sept. 26, 1921.
Grand Council of California-David J. Re.e se, Grand Master,
Ventura, Cal.; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, Masonic
Temple, San Francisco. 6lst Annual Assembly, Long Beach,
April 18, 1921.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar-Joseph K. Orr,
Grand Master, Atlanta, Ga. ; Frank H. Johnson, Grand Recorder,
Louisville, Ky. 35th Triennial Conclave, New Orleans, April 25,
1922.
Grand. Commandery of California-Robert Wankowski, Grand
Commander, 24 Ruth Avenue, Venice; Thomas A. Davies, Grand
Recorder, Masonic Temple, San Fraincisco. 63rd Annual Conclave,
San Francisco, Cal., April 21, 1921.
·
Supreme Council, A. & A . . S. R. (Southern Jurisdiction)George F . Moore, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander ; John H .
Cowles, 33°, Secretary General, House of the Temple, Washington,
D. C. Meets biennially third Monday in October, Washington,
D. C. William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, S. G. lnsp.
General, Northern District of California; Perry Winslow Weidner,
33°, Los Angeles, S. G. Insp. General, Southern District of
California.
·
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. (North ern Jurisdiction)Barton Smith, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander, Robert A.
Shirrefs, 33°, Secretary Ge11eral, 299 Broadway, New York. Meets
annually the third Tuesda·y in September, Boston, Mass.
Imperial Council, A. A. 0 . N. M. S.-Ellis L. Garretson, Imperial Potentate, Tacoma, Washington; Benjamin W. Rowell,
Imperial Recorder, Masonic Temple, Boston, Mass. 47th Annual
Session, Atlantic City, N. ]., June 7, 1921.
General Grand Chapter, Order Eastern Star-Mrs. Ellie Lines
Chapin, Ge neral Grand Matron, Pine Meadows, Conn.; Mrs. Minnie
E. Keyes, General Grand Secretary, Lansing, Mich. 17th T riennial
Assembly, Washington, D. C., 1922.
Grand Chapter of California-Louise M. Elsensohn, Grand
Matron, Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Kate J. Willats, Grand
Secretary, 1002 Ellis Street, San Francisco, CaHf. Annual Session,
San Francisco, October 19, 1920.
0

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry· practiced in the United States
are generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite.
Properly speaking, they should b~ termed the American Rite and
the Scottish Rite, for the one commonly called York is peculiar in
its organized proceedings only to the United States.
·
The American Rite embra:Ce.s the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.
The Symbolic degrees are conferred in a Lodge and are the
Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason.
They are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is by symbols.
The Capitular degrees ~re conferred in a Royal Arch Chapter
and are the Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most Ex~ellent
Master and the Royal Arch~ The supplemental and honorary de- ·
gree of High Priesthood is conferred ..in a . Council of High Priests
upon · those who nave been regularly elected to preside over a
Chapter of Royal Arch Masons~ They ·are' called Ca[>itular because they are conferred in a Chapter, the work "Capitular" meaning "done in a Chapter." ·
·
'·
·
'
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Co~ncil. They are the
Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called Cryptic because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees are · conferred in a. Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. .The name Knight
Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take
the temple at Jerusalem from the ·Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the
33rd, inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction. cif the United States
(which includes all territory south of the Ohio· River and west of
the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and
the degrees conferre1d by them, are: .Lodge of Perfection, 4° to
14°, inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix; 15° to 18°; Council of Kadosh,
19° to 30°; Consisto~y, 31_0 to',32°; Supreme Council, , 33°.
.
In the Northern Jurisdictioi:i (which includes all S.tates north
of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River) the degrees
conferred are: L~dge of Perfection, 4° to 14°,. inclusive; Council
Princes of Jerusalem, 15° and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and
18°; Consistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.
MASONIC PERIODICALS
Arkansas-Masonic Trowel, Little R_ock.
California-Southwestern Freemason, Los Angeles; Trestle
Board, San Francisco.
Colorado-Square and Compass, Denver.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

123

MASONIC PERIODICALS-Continued
Delaware-Masonic Index; · Wilmington.
District of Columbia-New Age, ·washington.
Florida - Fraternal Record, Jacksonville; Florida

Masonic
J ourn~l, J~cksonville.
Georgia-Masonic Herald, Rome.
Illinois-Masonic Chronicle, Chicago; Fraternalist, Chicago;
Voice Review, Chicago; Illinois Freemason, Bloomington; Masonic
Review, Arcola; Masonic News, Peoria; Mystic Light (NEGRO),
Rock Island.
·
Iowa-The Builder, Anamosa. '
Indiana-Masonic Tidings, Winona Lake.
Kentucky-Masonic Home Journal, Louisville; Light, Louisville; Scottish Rite Bulletin, Louisville.
Louisiana-Square and Compasses, New Orleans; Plumb Line
(negro), Natchitoches.
Maine-Masonic Token, Portland.
Massachusetts-New England Craftsman, Boston.
Michigan -Tyler-Keystone, Ann Arbor; Tyler-Keystone,
Owosso; Palistine Bulletin, Detroit; Trestle Board, Detroit; The
Ashlar Detroit; Friendship Bulletin, Detroit.
Mlssouri-Inter-State Freemason, Kansas City; Kansas City
Freemason, Kansas City; Missouri Freemason, St. Louis.
Minnesota-The Crescent, St. Paul; Masonic Calendar, Duluth· Masonic Observer, Minneapolis.
North Carolina-Masonic Journal, Oxford.
New York-Masonic Standard, New York; Brotherhood, New
York; Gavel, Newburgh; Masonic News, Brooklyn.
Oklahoma-Oklahoma Mason, McAlister.
Ohio-Masonic Bull~tin, Cleveland.
Pennsylvania-Masonic Monthly, Philadelphia.
Tennessee-Tennessee Mason, Nashville.
Texas-Texas Freemason, San Antonio.
Utah-Universal Freemason (CLANDESTINE), Salt Lake
City.
.
Virginia-Masonic Journal, Richmond.
Washington-Masonic Tribune, Seattle.
Wisconsin-Masonic Tidings, Milwaukee.

Foreign
Australia-Australian Free Lance, Melbourne.
England-Freemason, London; Miscellanea Latomorum, London; Transactions of Coronati Lodge No. 2076, London.
South Africa-Masonic Journal, Johannesburg.
New Zealand-Master and Past Master, Christchurch.
India-Review of Religions, Gurdaspur.
Canada-Freemason, Toronto; Masonic Sun, Toronto.

~

00

II'

:I

c..
w

"°'

I

°'"'

po
"

:r
i::

-

!!'

,,,
...

§

'<

00

II'

i::

!!'

-'O

-... - ,,,- "'
00

II'

::I

c..

- r
0

0

;.

0

3

r
'O

'O

.f;X)

t:d

,,,

"'

5·

!lQ

..,

:r

i::

00

·"'

II'

'O

:s
c..

r

:t

SXJ

00
II'

0.
~

8

r

ti

>

~

i:'j
rll

;::;.·
,,,:r >< '<~ :r
.... .......
(')

'<
,,, .g

-

.......,,,:r 0 ;r
.... 0
0
:r ..,
...............
,,, <'> OQ
II'

II'

-· 0 ::.

:r ~
,,, :r
tll
~

-

0

(")

~

I

... :r
p. 0...

-t

~ '<

-·,,,

::::!'. ~
0

..,

~- 5·

g

,...... ~
?> :r
,,,t:l

0

. ,,,
:r
.......

N

c..~

<'> -·

:"~

- 3.

,,,t:l =-

'O ,,,

-

g:

'O ....

<'>

,,, '<

_;.;- ~

> ...

:s 0
:s 0 ....
:r

t:d ,,,
,,, t:d

,,,::I ,,,-"'

II'

-·
"'

(")
-·:::
0 llQ

- ,,, !;ti>
g ... --=..,
.... ::I
"'-· ,,,
:r
,......
;. ~
ro ;:::;:
?> Ul
,,,
'< :r
......
-·II'

II'

(")

:s 0
:'- :s
'-.,/
c..

tTj

z

ntTj

,,,
II'

.., ....
:r

_...
=.., -·,,,
0

,,,

-,(")

5·3 ::rOQ

,,,&"E.
,,,

II'

~­

:-- 0

" :s

GRAND LODGES AND ADDRESSES OF GRAND OFFICERS
GRAND
LODGES-

GRAND
MASTERS-

GRAND
SECRETARY-

CHAIRMEN OF COMMITTEES
ON F. CORRESPONDENCE-

Alabama ····-------- Percy B. Dixon, Mobile. _.. _................ - ... George A. _Beauchamp, Montgomery...... Oliver Day Street, Guntersville
.\lberta ··········-- - - J - H . W. S. Kemmis, Cowley._____.._S. Y. Taylor, Calgary·-·- ·-·-····--·-···-··· S. G. Taylor, Calgary
A"rizona ··············-····-···············-·-····-···-··--·····-···-··········-··········--George J. Roskruge, Tucson ...................... Harry A. Drachman, Tucson
Arkansa" ···············---L'>uis Bauerlein, Camden......•......- .......... Fay Hempstead, Little Rock. ..............., ..... Slorm 0 . Whaley, Sulphur Springs
Belgfam ·---,·······- ----··-························-···········-·-······-····-·- - George Petre, Brussels................................
British CQlumhia.-·--·~I . L. Grimmett, Merritt.. ...........·-······--- W.A.DeWolf Smith, New Westminster.. Dr. w. A. DeWolf-Smith ,
New Westminster
California ·····--·--Charles A. Adams, San Francisco.......... John Whiche r , San Francisco ................. ·Jesse M. Whited, San Francisco
Canada ·················--Fred w. Harcourt, Toronto.................... Wm. :M. Logan, Hamilton Ontario .......... E. B. Brown, Toronto
Colorado ··-··---·-·································-································-·-··Chas. H . Jacobson, Denver ........... ---·········· Stanley C. Warner, Denver
Connecticut ·-····--Chas. E. Perkin., New London- .. ····-···· Geo. A. Kie<, Hartford.'-····-············-········Georgc A. Kies, Hartford
Cuba ···················-·--Antonio de la Piedra, Apart.72, Havana .. F. V. Preval, P. 0. Box 72, Havana.... ·- Francisco de P. Rodriguez, Havana
Delaware ········-----Harry Mayer, Dover .................................. Harry J. Guthrie, Wilmington .................. Harry J. Guthrie, W-ilmington
Dist. Columbia.....--- I . Harry Cunningham, Washington. ....... Arvine W . Johnston, Washington, D.C ... George W. Baird, Washington
EnKland ·················-Duke of Connaught, London ........- .......... P. Colville Smith, London ........................
Florida ···········-·-·-- l.eginald H . Cooper, Palatka.._........... - - W. P. W ehster, Jacksonville .................... Silas B. Wright, DeLand
France (G. Lodge)-M.W .Bro..Desmons,8 Rue Puteaux,Paris .. Edw. P. Denny, 8. Rue Puteaux, Paris ..
France (G. Orient>.-G. Corneau, 16 Rue Cadet, Paris............ N. Vadecard, 16 Rue Cadet, Paris..........
Georgia ··-····-··--.-Charles L. Bass, Atlanta....................- ...._ Frank F. Baker, Maeon ............................ Raymond Daniel, Atlanta
Idaho ··:··-······ - --- - --························--··········-··········-···-··-----Geo. E. Knepper, Boise City .................... George E. Knepper, Boise
Illinois ··············-·--Daniel G. Fitzgerrel!, Normal.. ................ lsaac Cutter, Camp Point ......................... Dclmar B. Darrah , :Qloomington
Indiana ··············---'l.ichard H. Schweitzer, Knightstown._. William H . Swintz, lndianapolis.............. Elmer F . Gay, Indianapolis
Iowa ····················-·- lesse A. West, Des Moines..............- ...... Newton R. Parvin, Cedar Rapids............ Louis Block, Davenport
Ireland ········ ··-·--·~The Earl of Donoughmore................ _____ Lord Plunkett, Dublin............................... .
Kansas ········-··---Hugh P . Farrelly, Cbanute.............·- ----· A. K. Wilson, Topeka........_ ...................... Albert K . Wilson, ·Topeka
Kentncky --···-··-- -He.-..ry S . McElroy, Lchanon ..... ·-······---Dave Jackson, Louisville.............. ---·-·······W. W . Clarke, Owensboro
Louisiana ............ ----Wynn G. Rogers, New Orlcans................ Jno. A. Davilla, New Orleans.................. John A. Davilla, New Orleans
:\faine ··············---·-Edward W. Wheeler, Brunswick. ____. Cha<. B. Davis, Po.rtland .......·-····-···------Alhro E. Chase, Portlan<l
:Manitoba ···········---.'\. J. Hatcher, Brandon...........'.·-··-·----- James A. Ovas, Winnipeg...........................P. E. Kellett, Winnipeg

"'

tTj
• ><j

0

"'

"'z
0

n
0

"'"'
tTj

[fl

"'d

0

z

t:J

tTj

zn

tTj

~

"'

t'1

z

North Dakota .........-.Allan V. Haig, Devil's Lake_.................. Walter L . Stockwell, Fargo ...................... Grant S . Hager, Fargo
Nova Scotia' ·····------George D. Macdougall, New Glasgow..- :.James C. Jones, Halifax............................ James C. Jones, Halifax
Ohio ··························-Mathew Smith, Cleveland.......................... ]. H . Bromwell, Cincinnati........................ Nelson Williams, Hamilton
Oklahoma ...................:Frank A. Derr, Guthrie.............................. Wm. M. Anderson, Oklahoma City........ Thomas C. Humphrey, Hugo
Oregon ·--'·"'·'·'·"'··"-''-''·William J. Kerr, Corvallis.....cc., ...,.-·····-'-J. F. Robimon, Portland ... .'..- .................... D. P. Mason, Albany
Panama ··············----Guillermo Andreve, Panama...................... Victor Jesurun, Box 152., Abogado ........'..
Pennsylvan~ ···-···---John S. Sell, Phihidelphia.......................-. fohn A. Perry, Philadelphh...................... Tho.mas F. Penman, Scranton
Philippine I.lands...... Rafael Palma, Manila...................- ............. Newton C. Comfort, Manila ........... .-.........George R. Harvey, Manila
Porto Rico..............----W. F. Lippitt, Box 362, San Juan.......... Jose J. Torres, San Juan..........................
P. E . Island ......___ William .s. Stewart, Charlottetown .......... E. T . Carbonell, Charlottetown ...............•W. P . Doull, Charlottetown
Quebec ················---Arthur B. Wood, Montreal........................ Walter C. Hagar, Montl'eal.............•........ E . T . D. Chambers, Quebec City

(")

t'1

Grand Lodges and Addresses of Grand Officers-Continue~ .
GRAND
LODGES-

GRAND
MASTERS-

GRAND
SECRETARY-

CHAIRMEN OF COMMITTEES
ON F . CORRESPONDENCE-

Queensland ·····-·---James Stodart, Brisbane...................•........ Chas. H. Harley, Brisbane, ....•...:..............
Rhode Island........_ ...._James E. Battey, Pawtucket...................... S. Penrose Williams, Providence............ William L . Chatterton, Pawtucket
Saskatchewan ···--····Robert Y 9ung, Prince _A lbert......•....·-:····· W . B. Tate, Regina·-·'···"·········'··'···-~·-···:·· Dr. A.· S. Gorrell, Regina
Scotland ..................-Col. Robert King Stewart, Murdostoun .. David Reid, Edinburgh..............................
South Australia ·····- · .\rthur W. Piper, Adelaide........................ Chas. R . J. Glover, Adelaide....................
South Carolina ______ s. T. Lanham, Spartanburg...................... 0. Frank Hart, Columbia.......................... ]. L. Michie, D a rlington
South Dakota -······-John H . McCord, Pierre............................ George A. Pettigrew, Sioux Falls............ Charles L. Brackway, s'ioux Falls
Switzerland (Alpina) Prof. J . Oettli, Lausanne......... , ............... Fr. Zimmerman, Berne.·-··········-·-··········-Ed· Quartier-la-Tente, Beau Arts,
26 N e uchatel
Tasmania ..................-Hon. C. E . Davie•, Hohart........................ John Hamilton, Hobart....................:·--····
Tennessee ··············--··T. W. Pease, Madisonville ........................ S. M. Gain, Nashville·-'·······-····-··- ········Henry A. Chambers, Chattanooga
Texas · .................... _..:.George F . .->dorgan, El Paso.:.....•-··-····..:.. W. B. Pearson, Waco.:...c••••: •••.'••••:••••••••••••:James D, Crenshaw, San Antonio
Utah ··- ···················:..-James L . Cattron, Salt Lake City............ Freeman A . ·McCarty, Salt Lake City.... S. H . Goodwin, Provo
\"ermont ······-····-······-Archie· S . Harriman, Middlebury............ Henry H . Ross, Burlington.._.................. Cbas. H . Darling, Bratlleboro
Victoria ·················-···F. T. Rickford, D.G.M.,Act.,Melbourne.. Cha~. J. Barrow, Melbourne......................
\'irginia ··········-·-·-··-Willi•m W. Galt, Norfolk........:............... Chas. A. Nesbitt, ·Richmond.....................: Dr. Joseph W . Egglesto.n, Richmond
Washington ·-·-··---James H. Bigg, Seattle....... ·-················-··H. W. Tyler, Tacoma............•_____ :.......-Ralph C. McAllister, Seattle
W est Virginia_ _____ William K. Cowden, Huntington,............. John M . Collins, Charleston............,._........ George W. ·Atkinson, Charleston
V.'est Australia..___ , .. Sir Wm. Ellison McCartney, P e rtb ........ J. 0. Stevenson, Pertb:...........·- ···-·········-J· D . Stevenson, Perth
Wisconsin ····--·---C. E . Shaffer, Madison............... - ........... : W . W. Perry, Milwaukee..-...................... Aldro Jenks, Dodgeville
Wyoming ············-····-·················--············--·:-·······--------1· M. Lowndes, Lande•.·-··-·-·········-········ J .• M. Lowndes, Casper

~

t'1

"<)

0

~
....,

0

z

8
~
~

t'l

(fl

"<)

0

z
t'1
z

u

(")

t'l

-....
N

·.
128 '

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES RECOGNIZED BY

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

129

THE GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES

** *....* *.. ** ** *....* ** ** .... ** *.. ....
.... * .. ** .... ** *...... ** **
.... .... ........
** ......
.. * * ** ** ......* *.. *.. ....
.. * *.. *..........
....... .. ·..··..·*...... ** *.. .... ** *..
* ...... * * ...... * .. * * ........... .... * .. * * .. * *
* * * * * * .. * * * ··* .... * * .. .. .. * .. * * .. * *
** *.......... ** ** ..··*.. ** ** .... ** .... *....* .... *··......
.. ·· .. *** *.... *** **....*.. *** ***
** ......
*
*
....
*
*
..
* .. ..............
** ** ......
.. .. * ** .... ** *...... ....
.. ............
.... .. ** .... ** *...... ** **
** ......
....
..
.... .. * * .. .. * * .. * .. ...... ...... .. * .. * .... * *
** ·.....··*.. ** ** ·..·** ** ** ·..·** ·..........
·* ·······..··....
···** ·..·** ** ·..·** **
* . ...* * ·... * * .·* ·· ·· ···· ..··..·.* .·* ···.* *
* * *......
* * ** *.. ** ................
.. * * .. * * * .. ** .... ** *....* ** **
:. *** *.... *** **.. **
* * .. .. .. * .. * * .. .. .......... * .. * .... * *
* .. * .. * * .... * * .. * .......... * .... * .. * * .. * *
* .. * ··* * ······* ··** ·..·*.. ..···..··..··..·····*.. *.. *.. *··..·*.. *..
* .. ....* * .. * .. * * * * * * ..........* ..* .. * * *
** ......
.. * * ** ** ....
.... * ........ '** *.. ** *...... ** **
.... ** ** *.. ** ** ..............
** .....
...*..** ** ........** ** .... ** ....*..·....
·...........
.......*··*·.** ** *.. ** **
** ......... ** ** ....
.. .. ** ** .... ** ......* ..........
.. .. .. . · *......
* .. ** *...... ** **
** .... ** .... ** ** ....
.. .. ** ** *..** ....
.. ......
* * *..** .... ** *.. *.. ** **
.... ........
** *....* ** ** ** .... *.. ** ** .... ** *· · *..............
.. * ........** .... ** ** ...** **
* ......* * ...... * .. * .... ··...... ... ·* ··* ····* *
.. ** ** .... ........
.... * .. ** *................
* .. .. ........ ** .... ** *...... ** **
*** ......
......
*.** *.. ** .... *............
........ ......** .... ** ....
* **
** .......
.. ..*** *** .....
....
*
..* * * .. * .............. ..* .. * * .. * *
** ·..·** ** ············** ····** ····*·········· ·······'··** ····** *······** **
** .....
.. * ..,·** ** ·..·....
··* *··*··** ·..·*···......
·····*···....
···** ····** *··:···** **
** .. ...... ** ** ......
.. .... ** *.. ** *.. ** ......
.... ··....
........** ......* ** ·....
·* **
** ...... ....** ** ......
.... * ** .... ** .................
....... ..** ....** *...... ** **
* * ······* ··* ················* ··* ····* *

Alab&ma ........ . ....
Arisona ... .. .. .. .....
Arkall8B8... . . .......
California . .. .. .......
Colorado.. .. .. .. .....
Connecticut . : ... ....
Delaware .... . .... . . ... .. .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Diet. of Columbia . ....
Florida . ...... .. .....
Georgia .. . .. .. .. .. ...
Idaho ...... .... . . ....
Illinois .... .. .... ... ..
Indiana ......... .....
Iowa . . .. . ..... . .....
Kall8B8 ...... .. ......
Kentucky .... . ... . ...
Louisiana ............
Maine ...... . .. . ...
Maryland ......... ...
Massachusetts.... . . .
. . .. .. .... .. · · .. · · · .. . .. · · · · . . . · .... · · · · .. · .. . · · · ·
Michigan ............
Minnesota . ... . . .....
Mississippi.. .. .. . . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Missouri ..... . ...... .
Montana .... .. .......
Nebraska ......... .. .
Nevada ....... .. .... .
New Hampehirc .... , .
New JeM!ey .. ....... ..
New Mexico ... . ......
New York .... .. .. ....
North Carolina . . .....
North Dakota ... . . . . .
Ohio ... .. .. .........
Oklahoma . ... . ..... .
Oregon ...... .. ... .. .
PenllJ!ylvania ........
Rhode Island . . . . .....
South Carolina .
.
South Dakota ........
Tennessee.
.
Texas..... .
..
Utah . . . .. ..
.
Vermont .... ....... ..
Virg!nia .............
Washington .........
West Virginia ... . . .. .
Wiaoonein ...........
Y-'.Y!Jrning . .... -..:..:...:..:.. . .... ·
Compiled by J08eph M. Lowndes, Grand Secretary, Wyoming, 1919.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ·- - - - - - - -------

** .... ** *.. ....
.... ** ** ..............
.............Alabama
.... ** ** .... ** .... ** ** .... ** ....
.. .. ** ** ......
.. .... ** ....
Arison•
*...... ** ............
* .. * * * * ** .... ** *.. ....*. .... ....
*
..
*
........
*
*
............
ArkalJBas
.. .. * .... ........ ..' .............. California
* .. * .... .. * * .. * .. * * .. * .... * * .... .. * .. .. ** ............. Colorado
.. * *..............
* * * * * * *......
* ............
* * * *. ..........................
* * * .. * * .......... Conneoticut
*...... *.. *......
Delaware
** .... ** .......
...* ** ** .... ** .... ** ** .... ** ........** ** ............
.. * * * ....**
* * .....
Dist. of Columbia
..............Georgia
Florida
** .... ** .... ·....
· .. ** ** .... ** .... ** ** .... ** .......
.... * ** ....
....
....
*
*
..............
................Illinois
Idaho
* .. * .... .... .. ,.* .. * * .. * .... * * .... ....
.... ** ....
.... ** ** ...............
** .... ** *........* **.;,* .... *,;. .... ** ** .... ** ....
.. * ** ** ......
...... ** ....
.... **** ..............
.... ............Indiana
Iowa
** .... ** ......
.... * ** ** .... ** .... ** ** *.. ** ....
*
*
......
*
....
*
*
..............
KallJ!as
.. * * * ............ * * ............ Kentucky
** *.. ** ** *.. ** ** ** .... ** .... ** ** .... ** ....
·· .. ** ** ......
.. * * ** .... ***
............ Louisiana
.. ** ** ...............
Maine
*. . .... *.. ....
..
......
*
..
*
*
..
*
....
*
*
......
..
....
............
Maryland
.. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. . ..... M118811ohu•otta
** .... ** .....
*..** *......** .... ** ** .... ** ......* ** *.......
*..** .....
* ** ....
............
Michigan
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
*
.......
Minnesota
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. * * .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ......... MissiMippi
** ** ** *.. ......* ** ** .... ** *.. ** ** ** ** *.. ** ** ** ......
.. * .. ** ....
* * .............
Missouri
.............Nebraska
Montana
** ".. ** ·..···.. *.. ** ** .... ** ·.. ** ** .... ** .... .... 11\* ** ....
.. .. .... ** ....
........ *** *** ............
..............
Nevada
** .... ** *........* ** ** .... ** .... ** ** .... ** ....
.... ** ** ....
....
....
*
*
......
New Hampehire
.... * ** ...,.... **** ..........
...........New
New Jersey
* ·•* ·• ·· ··* ·... * .. * * .. * ....* * ......
Mexico
** ..* ** *.. ....
.. * ** *.. *.. ** *.. ** ** ....** *...... ** ** .... ** *........
* .... **
............
New York
* * .......North Carolina
** *.. ** *...... ** ** ** *.. ** .... ** ** .... ** ....
*
*
..
*
..
*
....
North Dakota
.... * * .... * * .... ** ** ........
.................
Ohio '
** .... ** ....
*
*
....
*
..
* * .. * .... * * ...... * .... * * ............ Oklahoma
.........
Oregon
.. .. * ....
.. .. *.. ** *.. .... *.. .... ** *.. .... ** ....
.. .. *.. ** .... ........ *.. .... .... ** *.. .....
.. .......
Pennsylvania
*"!' .... ** ......
.. .. .. ** ** .... ** .... **I** .... ** ....
.... ** ** ......
.. .... ** ....
**** .......
.........South
flhode Island
....
Carolina
1" .. * * .. * * * ..* ..* * ..* ......* ...... * .... * * ........South Dakota
* .. * .... .. * .... * ..* * .. * .... * * ...... * .... * * ............ Tenneesee
** .... *......
.. ...... ** *...... ** .... ** ** .... ** ....
.... ** ** ......
.... .. ** ....
.... ** ** ................
................ TexUtah..
* ........ * .. * ..* ..* * ..* .. * * * .... .. * .... ** .............Vermont
.. * .. * ** .... *...... *.. ** ** ......
*......
.... **
..............
Virginia
*** ............
....* *......
.. * *** *** ..........
....
*
*
*
..........
Waehington
.. ..........
** ** ............
......... WestWiaoonsin
Virginia
** .... ** ....
.. ...... ***I
* .... '+** ...... **+ +** ...... +** ....
........*** *** ....
..
*
.
.
.
.. .... * .... * * ... .........Wyoming

REPO RT ON CORRESPON.DENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

130

FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS

GRAND LODGES, MEMBERSHIP , DATE OF ORGANIZATION
AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED.

Compiled by JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman; Committee on CMrespondence,
California, 1920.

.

Lodges

I

~~i~o"~~~: ::::::::::::

Arkans88 ........... ..
California .... ... . . ....
Colorado .. ...........
Connecticut . ..........
Dela"•arc .. . .. . ...... .

District of Columbia .. .
Florida ... . ..........•

?lf
h~'.a::. ·. : : : : : : : : : : :
Illinois .... . . .. .. . .... .

Indiana ... ... ...•. ,. ..
Iowa . .. .. ... . . .......
Kan888 ...... ...... ". . .
Kentucky .. ...... . ....
Louisiana ..... ..... ...
Maine ................

Maryland ...... . ......
M88sachusetts ....... . .

~~~!~~~:: :: :: :: ::::
~:~B~~f~i . :::: :::::::

Montana . .. .. .. ... . . .
Nebr88ka ......... , ...
Nevada .. , .. . ,, .. ·" ..
New Hampshire . . ,, . . .
New Jersey .. , . . . .. .. .
New Mexico ... . ......

New York ... .. .......
North Carolina ...... ..
North Dakota .. . ......
Ohio ..... .. ...... .' .. .
Oklahoma ...... . ..... .
Oregon .. . ..... . ..... .
Pennsylvania . .. . ... ....

Rhode Island . .. . , .. . .
South Carolina ........
Sout h Dakota .. ... . .
Tennessee . .. .. .. ..... :
Tex88 .. , ... , ....... . .
Utah . . ... . , . .. ... . ...
Vermont .. . .. .... ... ..
Virginia . •.•..........
W Mhington . ...... ;". . .
West Virginia .. ... . .. .
Wisconsin . . ........ . .

.W yoming ....... ·· ··· ·

558
27
556
401
134
115
22
30
236
675
67'
877 .
567
533
419
601
252
206
116

271
453
272
375
643
125
278
22
80.
214
51
892
449
120
575
448·
149
521
38
275
152 .
446
89J'
23
103
331
219
155
286
35
15 284

37.217
3,786
23,624
76,866
23,790
31,298
4,381
13,723
16,612
55,000
6,256
167,286
98,170
67,346
55,572
58,000
23,008
35,670
24,117
82,410
106,186
39,995
23,807
90,000
. 15,926
30,806
2,178
12,247
55,083
4,761
234,894
28,805
12,325

l~~:i~~

When
Organi•ed

Proceed-

Annual
ings
Communi- Reviewed
cation

June 14. 1s21
Dec.
Mar. 25, 1882
Feb.
Nov. 21, 1838
Nov.
April 18, 1850
Oct.
Aug. 2, 1861
Oct.
July 8, 1789
Feb.
June 6, 1806
·Oct.
Dec. 11, 1810
Dec.
July 5, 1830
Jan.
Dec. 16, 1786
Nov.
Dec. 16, 1867
Sept.
April 6;·1840
Oct.
Jan. 12. 1818
May
Jan. 8, 1844
June
Mar. 17, 1850
Feb.
Oct. 16, 1800
Oct.
July 12, 1812
Feb.
June I, 1820
May
July 31, 1873
Nov.
Dee.
·· ···
·· · July 30, 1733 May
3,469 Se~t. 14, 1844
1,832 Fe . 24, 1853
Jan.
617 July 27, 1818
Feb.
2,575 April 21, 1821
Sept.
528 Jan. 24, 1866
Aua.
1,158 Sept. 23, 1857
June
417 Jan .. 16, 1865
June
479 July 18, 1789 • Ma;r.
1,044 Dec. 18, 1786
Apnl.
466 Aug. 6, 1877
Feb.
1,761 Sept. Ii, 1781
May
607 Jan. 14, l 771
Jan.
l,000 June 12, 1880
June
1,653 Jan. 7, 1808
Oct.
Nov. 10, 189.2
Feb.
685
462
742
1,204
1,061
1,196
462
. 950
625
1,000
200
1,868
1,974
1,111
1,267
1,450
513
672
947

18,170 . . '1".<>33 .
160,000
1,520 Aua. 16, 1851
12,417
930 Feb. 2, 1764
21,723
653 June 25, l 791
804 Mar. 24, '1787
14,628
33,729
782 July 21, 1875
83,277 . . . . . . . Oct.' 14, 1813
3,220
466 Dec. 20, 1837
14,992
525 Jan. 16, 1872
31,362
816 Oct. 14, 1794
28,617
1,150 May 6, 1777
22,880
709 Dec. 9, 1858
38,651
872 May 11, 1865
4,448
... . .. . Dec. 18 11143
Dec. is: 1874
2 221 857

.

~

Lodges

June
Dec.
May
Dec.
June
Jan.
Dec.
Jan.
June
Feb.
June
Nov.
June
Sept.

1919
1919
1919

. . . . . . .. . .
¥• •····· ··
........
..
1918-19
1919
1920
1919
1919
1919
1920
1919-20
19:!1
1919
1920
1919-20
1919
1919
. 1919-20

. .. iliii' ..
19t9
1920
1919
1919-20
1920
1920
1920
1920
1919
1919
1919
1920
. 1919-W

.. "ilii9 ' ..
1919
1919
1920
1919
1920
. 1919-20
1920
1919
1919
1919-20
1919

Membership

Membership
La~est

L

AlbertR .. . ........ . , ..
British Columbia ......
Canada .• ... .. .........
Manit-0ba ... .. .. .. ....
New Brunswick .. ... ..

U. S. JURISDICTIONS
Membership
Membership
Lar~est
Loge

131

Nova Scotia .... ......
Prince Edward Islande ..
Qubcc ........ . .......
Saekatchawan .........

New South Wales . . , .. .
New Zealand . . . .. , .. ...
Queensland .......... ,
South Australia ... ... .
Te.emania . . .. .. ... ... .
Victoria ... ... .... ... .

West Auetralia . .......

112
86
486
80
42
77
15
67
150

9,343
8,975
80,920
S,400
3,983
8,133
971
10,066
9,140

1,115

139,931

289
206
73
91 .
34
224
91

27,983
15,026
2,600
7,109
2,400
17,126
4,488

1,008

76,732

126
15
55
42

JJ,539
975
4,107
2,000

238

18,621

Enr,Iand (estimated}.,. 3,339
Ire and (tstimated). . , 520
Scotland (estimated ) . . . 1,183
Belgium". ... . .........
23
France (Grand Orient . . 462
France (Grand I.odge)
136
Italy . ......... .. .. ... 482
Switzerland . . .... .. , . .
35
14

240,000
27,000
70,000
4,100
40,000
7,600
. 20,000
4,200
l,100

6,194

414,000

Cuba ... .. . . , ... . , . . . .
Mexico \York) . . . . ....
Philip~e lolando ...•.
Porto 'co .•.... . ... , ,

Vienna .. . . , . . . , . . ....

ge

411
420
923
635
314
154

Annwtl

When
Organi•ed

Communi-

Oct. 12, 1905
Feb. 22, 1832
Oet. 10, 1855
May 12, 1875
Oct. 10, 1867
Jan. 21, 1866
June 24, 1875
Oct. 20, 1869
Aua. 9, 1906

May
June
·July
June
April
June
June
Feb .
June.

cation ,

Proceed·ings:
Reviewed

.. . i9i9 ...
19111

1919
1919
1919
1919
l!l20
1919

Dec. 3, 1877
J uly
1919
April 30, 1890
May
Hl19'
April 25, 1004
June ,
1920
April 16, 1884
April "
June 26, 1800 June&Dec. 19i1~20~
April 16, 1884 8 uarterly
1899
uarterly .. . ilii9 ...
333
200
339

Dec.

5, 1859
1861

Dee. 19, 1912
Oct. 8, 1885

M ar.
April
Jan.
April

1919

... ilii9" ..

..........

24, 1717 Quarterly
.. .. i7ii' June
... iliili ...
April II, 1731
Dec.

Oct. 15, l 736
Feb. 25, 1832
Dee. 24, 1772

1904
1803
.June 22, 1844
D ec. 18, 1918

Feb.
June
Jan.

··· ······ ·

····
········
········

......... . ·· ····
. ... ...... ····
·· ·· ···· ··
····· ··· ·· ···
··· ····
····· ·· ···

Greensboro ..... ,... .. 1914 Jan. l , 1920 25
.. ..
17,000 .00 12.000 .00
.50 1.00 . . . . . . .. .. .. . . ..
55 .00 420 .00
Ohio . . ....... . .. . Springfield .......... . . 1897 ,July 31, 1920 140
69
291,858 .05 157,323 .43 1.00 ............ 133,931.86 .......... I ... . . . .
Oklahoma .. . ..... Darlington ......... .. 1910 Feb. l, 1920 16
IOI
46,723 .82 1 41 ,859 .23 1.50 1.00 ... .... ... ........ ..... .. . i 258.96
Penns.ylvania ..... Elizabethtown . . ... ... 19131Nov. 15, 1919 263
50
299,659.90 257,413 .54 1.00 20 .00 ...... ... . ... ...... .. ..... I 470.42
TennPSBee . ..... - ~I Nash~lle ('.\f . W. & C.) } 1892 Jan.
, 1920 61
.... ...
7,562.34
7,470 .44} 1.ool i.OO ... .. . 75 ,S41.IO 103 ,056 _63 11192.39
Nashville (Old Masons)
/Jan. , 1920 ..... .
178
67,969.17 67,969.17
·
1\222.56
Texas. . .. ....... I r~ij~~i~t?w\~~~~l~:. Jl899Sept. 30,1919 . .. ...
251
196,200.14 175,046.59 1.00 ...... ...... . ...... ...
4,569 .21 283.28
Virginia . . . ... . .. · Rirhmond .... ... ..... 1890 Nov. 30, 1919 ......
86
33,045 .113 31,389.42 ......... . ......... ..... ...... . ..... .. .. .... .
Washington ....... Puyallup .... .. .. . ... . 1914 June l, 1920 45
5
47,274 .45 1 17,923 .22
.25 .... ..
1.00 105,125 .00 2,264 .26 1 4-00.00
Wisconsin ........ I Dousman . .. .......· ........ !June l , 1920 12 ,. . ... .,. , 173,690 .04 116.1.377 .04
,.50 ... .. . ..... . 250.000 .00 ...... .. . . ....... .

I

trj

I

In addition to the above, the Order of the Eastern Star maintains separate Homes in Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska and New York, and the Royal Arch Masons maintains one
in Texas.
The above figures are taken from information given direct by Grand Secretaries, or from the last published proceedings, recent enough to be of value.
It should also be remembered that practically every Home in addition: o the income received from the per capita tax, has other rC!!Ources . .

tT1

g;~~~ g
Pl

.....

0

"'1

-

Cl.I

- · 0

Cl.I

n ::s ::s

0

.....

g. ui ,

I

'< Ul ;:;· ;:;·
0

g

""'

.....

cu

ro

"'• r>ro-·
-<

Ul l:
0 ..... .
::!!~~

i>
: :
?

t""' t""' t""'

5·"' "' "'

r1 ~
~.

...... .

ro

:

(')
0

;o·

~

~

3
.....
.....

N
_,.. 00 w
....,.N\0\0

\0

w Nw

...... <.n .,..

l l g. ::s~ '<

: .

:
;

w

:

:
;

:

_o ;
~

N

.......

W

~

~I
11
: : t...i:

5·

aq

3

:,..

-· :
:
•

r>

:

0\

;

•

.....

N

00 00 .......

c:r

~

'"

·. w ...

~·....... W....,. .......N 0 ~8
-

0\

"'

....,. "O

~

t.n

•

I

.,.

~·

':'
~

'-I 0\
0\.0

....

W O'\

t\l""'J

0\ ~

.w: ;

o

" tn i

:-+.

.°'::O ! · l.....

(I)

i

(ll

~

z

•

.,.

ti
t?=:l
~
'11

><

!:;:!

M
'ti

0

...,"'

0

0

'rj

()

z

0

-

00 Cll

......

"'

~.i:-.~i

(/)

c:::
to
._

i

"

:

P>

:::r:
:::r:
:::r: :::r:- C"l C"l C"l C"l
C"l
Ul 0 >;;;·
<
Cll
>-l tT1 iii" ~ 0 0 0 Pl t t:i Pl ~ t""' "d C"l
rD
rn C ::s 3 p;- 3
::i-3::r-;:;:;:s=::;:::s
3
0
Cll c:
::s
~ 0 ~ C"l 0 ..... "
".., '<.., "c-"::r-,....'Ooc:>.. ,... ~- Q.. 0P>en~-· r>""o· ::s"ro
"
iii" E!. ;:; 0c:>.. ..,p;- ;~
c-it>"' I ::r-0'1 ui 0 "
;:;·
::s 0 " ..,
"' ~c;· () rD
.., 3 v 'll 0 -- >-l " -"' ~ "
-· - e:-o
" "' t""'
~ ~ "'
::s
~ rn rD c: _, :::?. ::r ~
0
"'
::s : c:>..
n
~~
.....
Cll
::s
Cll
Ul
aq . ; aq
a
.....
IJQc:r
"'""
"'
0
"
o
:
~
:::~g.
S'
0
..,
'2. 0 .
V!
" "<..,
::s
3 >-l
"'..,:
~n:::s!:t
'O ..,
.., ;.;" l 0n
;:;·
;:;·
0
:
:
"
::s
i
c-ivi a "'2. s::~
.., :: ::
"
.., " : 3
"<n :
';< l 1· t""'
>
~ aq : -·
Ul
I
6'
l
~
~·
Q..~-tj~
I
"'
0 : ..

•

"'1

g.
: oorD : n . .
.
L~;.l.~i
i
~
w .... :
N- : -

r

,_

W-l:io.NONt\l\O

N

(; '"
;.;"

~r...i;

:

:

l ~ i i ;l ~ ~ 1 E!. : : :
i :...in l n
i 9' l "rj
~

......
l "'

..IO ;:
'I

~ 0

:

tl:i

"'1

.....
:::

::s

: ·°' ·°' :..... ~ i ~°'
N
,_
0- o
.....
00 w '°
\0

-

- - 1"
- .... 3

:;.:::
::s :;.:::
oQ ~ =: (JQ-· ::s- ·
" s:: r> ::r- Cll
"
~ t""' ~ .., .....
"' 0
::s
~
c:>.. "I "' ">-l c:>.
.
::s ~
"rj
"rj
..,
Ul
0

......

n n n n nnnn n t;:I tl:i tl:i tl:i tl:i tl:i
> >> >- 'O
- · ...,
ro .....
'1'
o ~ i: Pl
"' 0
0
- · "' "'
'O
~ >
~::i::::
'O
~ ::s
.... ~=+l
::s ::r- " ::r- t>'<C:~ n.o
0
- - ..... ro ro ::Pl
::!." g- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ e:>..
g_
"'·
.g
;.;"
"
3
0
~ ..... _w n· o· ~- ~- ~ :;·
ro "'1 0 ~
;;; I Pl::s ""'-- 0"'1 "'OCl.I Plrn .....-·
rt-,
we!,::SPlPlRCl.I
~ " tl:i
"'0 . .....,..,Pl c;;-~c;gg~ C-.::s ~-~ "E!. r>n "'TPl~Pl
:!
Cll
:
_...... - ·
::s ::s Cll 0
·:
tn g .:
c;;· . ......
"'
::s 0 ~ .:! tl:i
" c: !" ::r- ....
::i~
.,.., ~
::s ::s
i ·'°-i ~3 j ~
: ::s
0 ...... ~ :
~
~;.;:; "' .., c:>..

2· n ~ ~

,_.

0\10 00.,..
01.00-.i:...

:

!
:

~ i

v v n

-· "'
nc: .!!J.
.....
Cl.I
'-I
ro
n
(/)

g_ o l

;:;·

"..,

:

I

-·

tT1 t:I

"'
C) en

l

t.n c.n 0\ 0\ 00 00 t.n N
Nw
(..nd\ .............. w 0\ 0\ ........ (J\ <.n .\Q

r

t?=:l
(")

:

t""'

!

·~
00 t\,) CJ\ CJ\
N f.A t.n W

0

c:>..
aq

"'"'

M

(fl

"C

0

z

0
M

z

() .
trj

~
(/)

""'

N
00

~

"r>
I

""'ww

134

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
Pages

Pages

Masonic Home Statistics ...... 132

RitualCipher ...................................... 28
Use of .................................... 108
Third Degree ........................116
Roman Catholic Church ........ 21
Roosevelt, Theodore ................ 112
Royal Arch Masons-Grand·
Officers .............................. 121

Mas.Onie Service Assn .........44, 53
Masonry-What Is It?............ 82
Membership_..........-37, 63, 76, 93
Memorials :.........:.................. :....112
Ministers ~ ................................... 89
Mission of Maso.nry-The .... 90
Mystic · Shrine ........................63, 64
· . Grand Officers .............- ..... 121

Royal and Select Masters-

Grand Officers ................ 121
· Number s .............- ..................... 93 SchDols-Public ...................... 98
Offenses ..........,........................... 37 · Scottish Rite - Grand Officers -.--c--·-----~·-···• .. ...:;._121
Order of De ~folay for Boys 96 ·
Oriental Orsler of Masonry.... 66 • Smith-Towner· Bill .................... 99
Smoking ...........................:..:.....114
Periodicals-Masonic...... 122, 123
Politics-Discussion of........2, 23 ; Social Side of Masonry ........
Proceedings-Grand Lodge .. 55 1
..................................10, 32, 114
Public Schools .......................... 98 : Systems:..:.-Masonic ..................122
Questionnaires ........................ 101 · "Table Lo.dges" ........................ 10
Refreshments ....................10, 114 ! T.axil, Leo .................................. 22
Religion ...................................~..
Third Degree Lecture ............116
1
........12, 21, 27, 69, 70, 89, 105 Venereal Diseases .................... 61
Research-Masonic ................ 44 · "What Have Ye Done"...... .-.. .117

REPO~T

ON. CORRESPONDENCE

135

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED
Pares

Pages

Alabama....................6, 12, 15, 21,
32, 44, 61, 63, 67, 78, 106, 117

Maryland ..................................
4, 8, 14, '17, 54, 87, 90, 94, 118

Alberta :...~ .....~ ...................:... 15, 76

Massachusetts ..........7, 32, 73, 77
Mexico ........................................ 46

Arizona .........................:..,.........
Arkansas .......................~ ............
Belgium .......~ ..............................
British Columbia..................19, 46
California ............:....~.:: ..:.:...:........113
Canada..................::....4, 79, 86, 119
.colorado .........................:......-3lJ, 46
Connecticut.......... ,.39, 44, 59, 117
Cuba ............................................ 78
Delaware .... 13, 37, 44, 83, 86, 117
District of Columbia, 7, 12, 14,
15, 19, 22, 34, 46, 56, 57, 62,
63, 72, 93, 98, 106, 113, 115
England ...................................... 56
Florida........22, 30, 34, 72, 89, 106
France (G. Lodge) ..................
France (G. Orient) ..................
Georgia........15, 28, 37, 93, 98, I 17
Idaho........... .2, 35, 39, 56, 94, 117
Illinois .......................:............16, 44,
47, 53, 56, 59, 63, 67, 69, 70, 73,
83, 86, 106, 108, 115, 116, 117
Indiana....................16, 48, 73, 104
Iowa....................................2, 16, 20,
23, 27, 38, 41, 48, 71, 76, 79,
83, 87, 89, 103, 107, 109, 115
Ireland ........................................ 24
Kansas ........................... .16, 45, 117
Kentucky .... 16, 35, 45, 53, 60, 117
Louisiana ................:...........98, 117
Maine ..............................16, 45, 118
Manitoba........ 3, 46, 48, 77, 90, 94

Michigan .......................:............
........17, 49, 64, 83, 87, 95, 100

Minnes~ta .................................. 118
Missiuippi... .................38, 45, 118
Missouri .......,:..........~....... - ...11, 17
Montana...... 5, 17, 52, 64, 68, 118
N ebraska..................28, 45, 90, 118
N evada..................................5, 9, 11,
12, I 7, 20, 24, 27, 28, 45, 52, 64,
70, 74, 91, 95, 99, 109, 116, 118
New Brunswick ........................
New Hampshire ........................
............20, 42, 45, 54, 91 , 95, 118
New Jersey... ~ ................. 17, 20, 84
New Mexico .... 31, 40, 41 , 109, 118
New South Wales .......... 11, 18, 85
New Y ork ................................81 18,
20, 41, 45, 49, 74, 87, 95, 118
New Zealand ........................ 52, 88
North Carolina ........................ ·
............8, 42, 45, 49, 58, 65, 118
Nort h Dakota ..............,...........
........18, 35, 38, 45, 49, 99, 118
Nova Scotia.... 14, 18, 46, 74, 119
Ohio ............................ 18, 45, 75, 85
Oklahoma ..............................25, 100
Oregon ........................................
9, 18, 20, 40, 50, 65, 110, 118
Panama ......................................
Pennsylvania ............................
Philippine Jslands ............... .18, 31

136

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
Pages

Pages

Porto Rico ................................
P. E. Island ..................38, 46, 119
Quebec ........ 13, 18, 35, s4, 91, 95

Texas ..............31, 36, 79, 114, 119

INDEX-I 920

,U tah ...........................................•
10, 15, 25, 31, 45, 52, 58, 60, 70,
75, 78, 89, 93, 96, 107' 108, 111

A

Rhode Island ·····-·····-············
Vermont ...... 3, 21, 26, 40, 92, 119
Queensland ............ :........... ,.......
Victoria .................................. 10, 60
Saskatchewan ............................
Scotland ...................................... 7 S Virginia ........................ 3, 10, 19, 43,
SS, 66, 69, 76, 92, 104, 114, 116
South Australia.:., ........."·········
................ :...9, 20, 28,: 54, 89, 92
Washington .... 32, so, ss, 66, 119
South Carolina .................... 11, 19,
West Virginia .... 19, 33, 46, S7, 119
42, 4S, 6S, 68, 108, 110, 117, 118
W es t A us t ra l'1a..4 , 44, S8, 8S , 111
South Dakota ... .43, 4S, 100, 119 , Wisconsin ..................................
21, 26, 29, 33, 36, 39, 40, 44, 46,
'Switzerland (Alpina)..............
.Tasmania ..•...............................
Sl, S7, 66, 96, 100, lOS, 111, 119
Tennessee .......................~ ...... 14, lS : Wyoming ................................... .

Page

Acacia Lodge-Petition to work in German language ................33, 227, 289
Accounts-Report of Committee on..................................................... :........233
Report of Finance Committee on ........ ~ ...............................................311
Acorn Lodge-Charter for .................................... _ .........................................271
Dispensation issued .......•..........................................................................· 94
Adams, George Perrin-Memorial services in hon.or of........................... .267
Address of Grand Master (See Grand Master's Message) ...................... 7
Alameda Lodge-Reimbursement for ............................................................31S
Albert Pike Lodge-Charter for ............ ,.........................................................270
Dispensation issued ................................................................................... 91
Alphabetical List of Lodges .......... :...................................................................3SO
Amador Lodge-Claim for reimbursement denied ....................................315
America Lodge-Charter for ............................ _. ..............................................271
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 89
Amendments to By-Laws of Lodges presented.........................•..........9S, 259
Anderson, James Wright-Memorial services in honor of..... :................262
Annual Oration of Albert E. Boynton .................................................:........247
Appeal from action of Master, manner of.. ............................................ 15, 289
Appropriations .............................................................................................. 312-314
Atascadero Lodge-Charter for ......................................................................272
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 94

B
Balloting in Groups ...................................................................... 13, 233, 288, 308
Bell Lodge-Charter . for ... ~ ................................................................................270
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 91
Boards of Relief-Reports of........................................................ :................. 183
San Francisco Bciard .............................................................................. 183
Los Angeles Board .................................................................................. 189
San Diego Board ...................................................................................... 197
Oakland Board .......................................................................................... 198
San Jose Board ...... ,.................................................................................201
Honolulu Board ........................................................................................20i
Sacramento Board .......:............................................................................202
Report of Finance Committee on ........................................................311

ii

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Bonds of Grand Lodge, list oL ....................................................................... 118
Boy Scouts of America-Resolution commending........................... .234, 294
Boynton, Albert E.-Annual Oration by......................................................247
Business in First degree-Relative to ....................................................98, 293
Business Use of Emblems .................................................................. 183, 294, 307
By-Laws-Book to be secured from Grand Secretary..............................273
Cannot be set aside by Dispensation ..................................................305
Report of Committee on ....................................................................... .259

c
Calaveras

Lodge No. 78-Consolidated with Mokelumne Hill
No. 298............................................ ,................................................... 94
Caledonia Lodge-Charter for ........................................................................271
Dispensation issued ........................,......................................................... 92
Cash Receipts for the year ................................................................................ 108
Charters-Reports of Committee on ..............................................................270
Chowchilla Lodge-Charter for ......................................................................273
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 92
Circular Letters to Lodges-Amendment to section 127..........................287
Clarence F. Smith Lodge-Charter for ....................................................... .270
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 91
Coachella Lodge-Charter for ....................................................................... .27,0
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 90
Committee on Charters-Appointment.......................................................... 7
Report of ..............................................................................................270
On By-Laws-Appointment 0£............................................................ 7
Report of........................................................................................... .259
On Grand Master's Message ..........................................................88, 111
On Grand Secretary's Report ...................................................... 110, 116
On Grand Lecturer's Report... .................................................... .257, 274
On Investigation of Latin Masonry....................................................305
Personnel of Standing.................................................................. ,.........325
Communications, Special, of Grand Lodge, during year ........................... 98
Concurrent Jurisdiction-Petition of Eden Lodge for ..................... .229, 303
Corcoran Lodge-Charter for ......................................................................... .271
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 93
Correspondnce-Report of Committee......................................................... .275
Courtesy Work for Lodges ...................................................................... 100, 292
Crafts Councils ............................................................................................ 113, 304
Credentials-Report of Committee ................................................................. .205

iii
Page

D
Daughters of Masons-Status of... .................................................................275
Degrees, limit of to be conferred ........................................................... .233, 292
Deputy Grand Lecturer-Proposed office of... ....................................... 72, 289
Dispensations issued during the year ............................................................ 96
District Deputy Grand Master-Proposed office of...................... 72, 289, 307
Dues-Remission of.........................................................................., ........... 10, 286

E
East Bay Lodge-Charter for ................................................:.........................271
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 93
Eden Lodge-Petition for concurrent jurisdiction ............................. .229, 303
Education (See Report of Committee on) .................................... 51, 84, 295
Emblems-Business use of.. ............................. ~ ................................ 183, 294, 307
Employment Bureaus-Reports of... ....................•.....•................. .187, 195, 197
Endowment Committee-Motion pictures to be handled by..................276
Report 0£.. .......................................................................................... .".58, 230
Endowment Fund-Condition of............................................................ 119, 230
Securities of......................................................... ~ .•.......................... 135, 231
Entered Apprentices-Withdrawal of.................................................... 14, 288
Entertainment Fund ............................................................................................ 121
Eucalyptus Lodge-Appropriation for ......................•...................................314

F
Faber, Dr. Harold K.-Survey of Covina Home ....................................... .174
Thanks of Grand Lodge to ........................... c•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 30()
Fees, Return of.............................................................................................. 14, 288
Fellow Crafts-Withdrawal 0£.................................•............................. ~14, 288
Fellowship Lodge-Charter for ......................................................................270
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 90
Finance Committee (See Reports of Committees) .................:....:...............310
First Degree-Business in............•.........................................•...................98, 293
Foreign Jurisdictions-Relative to recognition ............................33, 65, 305
Forest Lodge-Relief for ..................................................... y: ..........................316
Fund for Social Purposes ........ ~ ....................•......................................20, 21, 258
Funerals by Boards of Relief... ............................'.................... 186, 189, 200, 202

G
. Garvanza Lodge-Charter for ......................................................................... .270
Dispensation issued...........................................•......•..•....•....................... 93
General Policy and Purposes-(See Reports of C~mmittees) ................285
German Language-Petition of Acacia Lodge to use....................... .227, 289

iv

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Golden Rule Lodge-Charter for ...•..........................................................•- ...270
Dispensation issued...:........................,..................................................... 90
Grand Lecturer-Report .oL........: ..................................................................257
Report of Committee on ........................................................................274
Proposal to create office of Deputy......................:...............72, 289, 307
Grand Lodges-List of in United States .......,..............................................345
Grand Lodge-Officers installed....................................................................323
Officers since organization....................................................................346
Officers elected 1920................................................................................322
Grand Master's Message.................................................................................... ·7
Acacia Fraternity ..................................................................................... 49
Acacia Lodge.....:........................................................................33, 227, 289
Amendments to By-Laws ...............··········:······:..................................... 8
Appendix .................................................................................................. 83
Balloting in groups.................................................................................. 13
Bi-Monthly Report of Grand Secretary............................................ 11
Charges preferred at direction of Grand Master ............................ 30
Committee on Message....................................................................88, 111
Committee on Masonic Education...................................................... 51
Condition of tli.e Craft............................................................................. 75
Contingent expenses, appropriation for ............................................313
Decisions of Grand Master.................................................................. 16
Review of Decisions..........:.............................................................301
Fees ................................... ~.............................~: ........................:.... 15, 23
Jurisdiction ...................................................................................... 17
Local Fund........................................................................................ 21
Quorum .............................................................................................. ·19
Withdrawal ...................................................................................... 14
Deputy Grand Lecturers........................................................................ 70
Dispensations-To reballot............................................................24, 305
To receive petitions..................................................................26, 305
For transaction of business....................................................29, 306
Deputy Grand Lecturers................................................................72, 289
Dues, remission of.................................................................................. 10
Endowment Committee.......................................................................... 58
Entered Apprentice, withdrawal of....................:.........................14, 288
Fees, return of..........'..................................................................14, 22, 288
Foreign Language Lodges........................................................33, 65, 305
Grand Secretary, Bi-Monthly Report ............, ................................... 11
Grotto, The .......·................................,................................................48, 113
Group Balloting................................................................13, 233, 288, 308
Group Initiation........................................................................................ 78
Growth in Membership............................................................."···..······ 75

v
Page

Hawaiian Islands, visit to......................:............................................... 39
Masonic Flag.................................................................................... 40
Visit of Prince of Wales ................................................................ 41
Homes, fees for ....................................................................................15, 23
nrmots
· ........................................................................................................ 62
Initiation in Groups................................................................................ 78
Increase in number ......................................:........................................... 75
Inspectors .................................................................................................. 72
Jurisdiction, Quorum...........................:.................................................. 19
Waiver ................................................................................................ 17
Legislation recommended...................................................................... 10
Life membership, not to be given........................................................ 21
Lodges, communicating between ............................................:............. 12
Lodge funds ................................................................................................ 20
Masonic Education .................................................................................. 51
Masonic Flag.........................~ .................................................................... 40
Masonic Homes.................................................................................... 15, 57
Masonic Industrial Association of Humboldt County.................... 46
Masonic Service Association................................................................ 53

~~:~~~~ ~~-~~-~-~-~--i-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: ~

Motion Pictures of Homes.................................................................... 58
Necrology .................................................................................................. 59
New Lodges .................................................................................... :........... 80
Nevada ........................................................................................................ 61
"Politicks" ................................................................................................ 43
Portrait for ................................................................................................313
Presentation of Button to Successor..................................................324
Prince of Wales........................................................................................ 41
Proclamation ............................................................................................ 84
Public Questions, discussion 0£...............................................'............. 43
Recommendations .................................................................................... 10
Relief for Austrian Masons .................................................................. 36
Remission of Dues...............................................:.................................. 10
Report of Committee on Message........................................................111

:~~:t --~~--~~~~.:::·.·.:::·.:·.·.::·.·.·.::·.: ·.·.:::·.:·.·.:·.·.·.·.:-.-.:·.·.·.-.-.:·.·.·.·.:::::::::·.:·.:·.·.-.-.-.-.·.-.:·.-.-.-.::·.-.:·.:·.'. ~'. ~
Sister Jurisdictions, Illinois.................................................................. 62
Nevada ................................................................................................ 61
Social side of Masonry ............................................................................ 79
U. C. Masonic Club................................................................................ 49
Veterans, certificate for .......................................................................... 12
Remitting dues 0£....................,....................................................... 11

vi

INDEX

Page

Visitations .................................................................................................. 38
Visit to Hawaiian Islands...................................................................... 39
Withdrawal .....:.......................................................................................... 14
York Grand Lodge of Mexico.............................................................. 65
Grand Secretary's Report .....................................,............................................ 89
Amendments to By-Laws reported ................................•................... ·95
Committee on· Report ......................................................................110, 116
Consolidation of Lodges........................................................................ 94
Courtesy work ..............................................................................:............. 11
Dispensations issued................................................................................ 96
Life memberships reported .....................................................:.............. 96
List of largest Lodges....................................:....................................... 99
Loyalton Lodge, no report from ...................:...................................... 89
Masonic Service Association............................................. :.................. 98
Membership .............................................................................................. 94
New Lodges formed ................................................................................ 89
Receipts for the year ...................................................................,..........108
Relief Fund, condition of...................................................................... 11
Special Communications of Grand Lodge........................................ 98
Statement of Lodge work. ..................................:.................................. 94
Trial records reported............................................................................ 97
Unfinished business reported..........................................'...................... 98
War fund ................ ~...................................................................................108
Warrants drawn during the year ........................................................ 100
Grand Treasurer-Report of...:........................................................................118
Grievances-Reports of Committee on (See also Reports of Committees) ································································-···························.278
Grotto, The......................................................................................................48, 113
Group Balloting.........................................................................,.. 13, 233, 288, 308
Group Initiation proposed......................:.........................................274, 292, 310

H
Hawaiian Lodge-Reimbursement for ..........................................................316
Hughes, Matthew Simpson-Memorial services. in honor of................269
Hutaff, Gustav A.-Finance Committee.......................................................". 7

I
Initiation-Group plan....................................................................... .274, 292, 310
Inspectors-Pay . of..............................................................................................320
Proposed change of official title .........................................:.. 72, 289, 307

J
Jewel for Past Master-Relative to..........................................................21, 301
Johnston, Andrew L.-Grand Marshal.......................................................... 6

.

.

.

INDEX

vii

L

Page

Life Membership resolutions .................................................................... 96, 307
Lodges-Alphabetical list of.......................................................................... :...350
Chartered at this Communicatio~ ................................................270-273
Formed during the year.......................................................................... 89
List of Defunct................................................:.......................................340
List of in the jurisdiction....................................................................327
List of largest...................................,.........................................•.............. 99
Location of............................_. ....................................................:...............360
U. D., claims for rebate of dues ........................................................317

M
Masonic Club at University of California ............................................. .49, 317
Masonic Education ........................................................................51, 84, 295, 319
Telegram from Superintendent of Public Instruction (See
also Report of Committee) ............................................................295
Masonic Emblems-Use of in business........................................ 183, 294, 307
Masonic Homes-Amendment to Section 41.............................2 88, 302, 3()<)
Appropriation for account Sanitarium expense..............................315
Covina _Home-Gen:eral conditions......................................................150
School facilities ................................................................................151
Donations to ......................................................................................158
Residents, list of................................................................................171
Departures during the year..........................................................173
Survey, mental and physical........................................................174
Decoto Home-General conditions......................................................137
Donations to ......................................................................................139
~esidents, list of...........................................................:.................. 146
Deaths during the year ..................................................................149
Admission of incapacitated.................................................................... 124
Endownment Fund, condition of..................................................119, 135
Entertainment Fund................................................................................ 121
Grand Master's reference to ................................................................ 57
Moving Pictures shown........................................................................204
To be handled by Endowment Committee................................276
Per capita tax, motion to increase ....................:.................................246
Report of T·rustees .......................·........................................................-..122
Of Finance Committee on.........................................................- •..312
Recommendations of Trustees ..............................................................127
Receipts and expenditures....................................................................128
Legacies ...............................:......................................................................126
Secretary's Report.......:............................................................................128
Sale of Properties...........................:........................................................122
Superintendent to be appofoted at Covina ........................................125

viii

INDEX

INDEX

IX

Page

1'age

Masonic Service Association................................. :....................................98, 285
Masonic Temple Association-Purchase of stock oL ...............................313
Report of....................................................................................................276
Maste~-Appeal from action of, manner of.................................................. 289
Meetings, Stated-Cannot be changed by Grand Master ....._. ....................305
Memorial Services ............................................................................... ,........
.260
Minute Books-Amendment relating to ........................................................ 303
Mokelumne Hill Lodge-Consolidated with Calaveras ............................ 94
Mount Davidson Lodge-Charter for ............................................................271
Dispensation issued ..................... ., ........ :.................................................. 91
Motion Pictures of Homes ................................................................ 58, 204, 276

Finance-Accounts ........................................................................,.........310
Alameda Lodge, relief for ..............................................................315
Boards of Relief ................................................................................311
Deficiency appropriation for Grand Master.............................. 313
Eucalyptus Lodge, appropriation for ........................................314 .
Forest Lodge, relief for ..................................................................316
Grand Master's contingent expenses ..........................................313
Hawaiian Lodge, reimbursement for .......................................... 316
Lodges U. D., reimbursement for ................................................317
Masonic Club at Berkeley............................... :.............................. 317
Masonic Education, appropriation for ........................................319
Masonic I:Iomes....................................................•...........................312
Masonic Temple Association, purchase of stock of.. .............. 313
Overpaid Returns by Lodges ................................................... :.... 315
Portrait of Grand Master ..............................................................313
Roster of Officers, printing of......................................................318
Salaries of Grand Officers ............................................................314
Santa Paula Lodge, relief for ......................................................315
Traver Lodge, reimbursement for ................................................ 316

=:....

N
Near East Relief-Relative to ......................................................................... .275
Northern Light Lodge-Claim for reimbursement, denied ...................... 315

0
Officers of Grand Lodge-List of.........................'..................................... 4, 322
Present at opening.............................................................. :................... 5
Oration by Albert E. Boynton......................................................................... .247

p
Patterson Lodge-Charter for .......................................................................... 272
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 92
Pay of Members-Report of Committee on ..................................................319

R
Rejections-Publication of list discontinued .......................................... 11, 287
Relief-Reports of Boards of .................................................................... 183-202
Directions to Boards of...............,.......................................................... 311
Relief Fund-Condition of................................................................................ 100
Report of Grand Treasurer ............................................................................ .-.118
War Fund..................,............................................................................... 119
Endowment Fund ·························································'························--119
· Entertainment Fund ................................................................................ 121
Reports of Committees-Accounts .................................................................. 233
By-Laws ................................................................................................... .259
Charters ....................................................................................................270
Credentials ·········································································'······················205
Endowment .............................................................................................. 230

General Policy and Purposes-Acacia Lodge, right to work in
German ........................................................................................289
Amendment to Section 41 ..............................................................288
Amendment to Section 127............................................................287
Bi-Monthly Circular........................................................................287
Boy Scouts, resolution commending............................................294
Business in First degree ................................................:..... ~ ......... 293
Courtesy work ................................................. ,................................292
Degrees, limit of to be conferred ................................................292
District Deputy Grand Masters ................................................... .289
Fees, return of.........,........................................................................288
George Washington MemoriaL.................... ,...............................293
Group Balloting................................................................................288 •
Group Initiations ........................ :.....................................................292
Life memberships to veteran Masons ........................................ 287
Masonic emblems in business ........................................................294
Masonic Service Association ........................................................ 285
Remission of dues ..........................:.............................................. :..286
Review of action of Master .......................................................... 289
Social purposes, expenditures for ............................................... .293
Withdrawal of E. A. and F. C.......................................................288

x

INDEX

Page

Grievances-Omnibus Report ................................................................278
Petition of E. H. C. for restoration ............................................284
Petition of A. P. H. for restoration ..........................................280
. Petition of T. H. for restoration ..................................................284
Petition of W. S. J. R. for restoration ......................................283
Petition of L. L. K. for restoration ............................................283
Petition of A. J. F. for restoration .................................... :.......282
Petition of A. C. for restoration .................................................. 281
Trial Record No. 268, Oroville Lodge ................................ 103, 278
Trial Record No. 98, petition for restoration .......................... 2°79
Trial Record No. 2fi6, on appeal... .............................................,.280
Trial Record No. 272...................................................................... 280
Trial Record No. 271 , Evergreen Lodge No. 259, remanded .. 281
Jurisprudence-Amendment to Section 41~ .......................................309
Crafts Councils .................................... :............................................. 304
Decisions of Grand Master........................ ----------··-------------······-----301
Dispensations issued by Grand Master ......................................305
District Deputy Grand Masters ...................,................................307
Eden Lodge, petition for concurrent jurisdiction .....................303
Foreign jurisdictions, recognition oL .......................................305
Group Balloting .................................................., .............................. 308
Homes, Masonic, fee for ................................................................302
Life memberships approved ............................................................ 307
Masonic emblems, use of in business...... ,...................................307
Minute books, amendment relating to ..............................- ........303
Stated meetings, cannot be changed by · Dispensation ............ 306
York Grand Lodge ..,.........................................................................302
On Grand Lecturer's Report ............................... '........................... 274
Masonic Education .................................................... 51, 84, 295, 299
Pay of Members ...........,...................................................................)19
Return of Lodges .......................................................................... :.. .235
Ritual ..................................................................................................310
War Fund............................................................................................234
Representative Fu~d-Tax for ......................._. ..............................................,.321
Report of Grand Lecturer........................................................................257, 274
Returns of Lodges-Report of Committee on ..............................................235
Ritter, Prof. Arthur ].-Survey of Covina Home by................................174
Thanks of Grand Lodge to .................................................................... 300
Ritual-Group initiation proposed .................,............................... .274, 292, 310
Protest against shortening ......................................................................233
Committe~, report of.. ....................................... ,.......... ,...........................310
Roster of Officers to be curtailed ..~·-···-- ----------·-·---------····-·--··············--············318

INDEX

s

XI

Page

Salaries of Grand Officers ................................................................................314
San Mateo Lodge-Claim for reimbursement denied ................................315
Santa Paula Lodge-Reimbursement for .................................................. ,...315
Scottish Rite Bodies-Thanks to ........................ - ......................................... .259
Social Purposes-Expenditures for ............................................................... .293
Fund for ..................................................................................................... .258
Revenue for ................................................. ,..................................... .21, 301
Standing Committees-Personnel oL ...........................................................325
Stanford University-Thanks to ...................................................................... 300
Stevens, James Baunty-Memorial services in honor of.. ....................... .260

T
Temblor Lodge-Charter for ............................................................................270
Dispensation issued .................................................. ~ ............................... 90
Temple Association-Report of... .................................................................... .276
Thousand Oaks Lodge-Charter for ............................................................. .270
Dispensation issued .....................................................................:............ 90
Thrift Stamps-Resolution in favor of......................................................... .246
Traver Lodge-Reimbursement for ....................................... :........................ 316
Trial Records nported ................................................................................97, 278

v
Vallejo Lodge-Charter for ............................................................................. .272
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 92

w
War Fund-Condition of.................................................................................... 110
Report of Committee on ....................................................................... .234
Warrants drawn during the year ................................................................... .100
Washington Memorial-Relative to ......................................................234, 293
Webster, Bradford-Appropriation for ..........................................................313
Woodstock Lodge-Charter for ...................... :...............................................272
Dispensation issued .........................·......................................................... 93

y
York Grand Lodge-Relative to ................................................................65, 302

George Frederick Rodden
Grand Master 1920-21

fifty fourth Grand Master 1s- a
native of Cali'fomia, born at Montezuma, fuolumne Coanty, Dec:embu
24, 1867. Because bis advent into the world was "the night before
account for the . fact that he is
·Christmas" 'may in some 111 •
distinguished for that quality of charit that suffereth long and ls kind;
not easily prov-0ked, thinketh no evil, but rejoiceth m the truth-for he
is in truth an apostle 'Of sunshine and a
1ever that there • good in
every man and every woman.
His father was George ; ·' l " a • 11 • ·of Vern:ont, wlaose r1181f~d
. mils reflected the aturdy manhood of the sons of the Green Mountain
State. The elder Rodden came to California during the gold rush of
1851, and in 1864 he married Caroline Thornton of Cincinnati, Ohio.
Four children were the fruit of this union-Harry W, George F., Maud
(Van Norman) and Edna R._ (Martin).
Geurire F. in his •:.1
boyhood : nd l the publi¢ schools of his
nati e town, later attending the high schools of San trancisco. He·
has the distinction of being the youngest araduate in ~he llistory of the
University of California, in which instituiion he finished his course
of studies in 1887, too young to ceive his degree of Doctor of Dental
Surgery, which deKree was conferred "r •· he had attained his majority.
Since 1888 he has practi~d his chosen profession in the city of Saa
Francisco; although his home was and 1s in the Lcautiful citf of San
Rafael.
In 1910 he was married to '" . Elizabeth ] ackson of Chicago,
whose family is of old English stock, The father of Mrs, Rodden was
a (amous organist, and the daughter's !Ove. for' music but naturally
follows. Her ·g race and charm of manner have endeared her to the
new-made friends of her adopted homt, and the lamily is a real factor .
for good 1in the social life of San Rafael. Two beautiful children rule
the househotd.:-Amy Carolyn and George Frederick, Junior. The
young hopeful is .shown on the opposite page, gubed in the regalb. of
his illustrious father.
From the date of attaining his majority Brother Rodden has
evinced an active interest in the social and political life of his community and state, and although many opportunities for pGlitical preferment

GEORGE FREDERICK RODDEN
Grand Master 1920-1921

r. - - - - -

George Frederick Rodden
Grand Master 1920-21.

GEORGE FRJIDERICK RODD.EN, our fifty-fourth Grand Master, is a
native of California, born at Montezuma, Tuolumne County, December
24, 1867. Because his advent into the world was "the night before
Christmas" may in some measure account for the fact that he is
distinguished for that quality of charity that suffereth long and is kind;
not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, but rejoiceth in the truth-for he
is in truth an apostle of sunshine and a be'.iever that there is good in
every man and every woman.
His father was George Rodden, a native of Vern:ont, whose rugged
hills reflected the sturdy manhood of the sons of the Green Mountain
State. The elder Rodden came to California during the gold rush of
1851, and in 1864 he married ·caroline Thornton of Cincinnati, Ohio.
Four children were the fruit of this union-Harry W., George F., Maud
(Van Norman) and Edna · R. (Martin).
George F. in his early boyhood attended the public schools of his
native town, later attending the high schools of San Francisco. He
has the distinction of being the youngest graduate in the history of the
University of California, in which institution he finished his course
of studies in 1887, too young to receive his degree of Doctor of Dental
Surgery, which degree was conferred after he had attained his majority.
Since 1888 he has practit!ed his chosen profession in the city of San
Francis<!o, although his home was and is in the beautiful city of San
Rafael.
In 1910 he was married to Amy Elizabeth Jackson of Chicago,
whose family is of old English stock. The father of Mrs. Rodden was
a famous organist, and the daughter's love for music but naturally
follows. Her grace and charm of manner have endeared her to the
new-made friends of her adopted home, and the family is a real factor
for good in the social life of San Rafael. Two beautiful children rule
the household-Amy Carolyn and George Frederick, Junior. The
young hop_eful is shown on the opposite page, garbed in the regalia of
his illustrious father.
From the date of attaining his majority Brother Rodden has
evinced an active interest in the social and political life of his community and state, an~ although many opportunities for political preferment

GEORGE FREDERICK RODDEN
GranJ Master 1920~1!121

Were offered by admiring friends and neighbors, these were always ·
declined. However, in 1915 he was induced to stand · for the office of
member of the City Council of San Rafael, to which office he was
elected, and in 1919 was chosen to be the Mayor of that municipality,
and filled this responsibility with the dignity and fearless attention to
duty which has characterized his life.
Freemasonry has had a large claim upon the time and thought of
our retiring Grand Master. He was made a Mason in Marin Lodge
No. 191, at San Rafael, receiving his first degree October 8, his second
degree October 12, and his third degree October 19, 1898. He was
elected Master of his Lodge in 1902, and at his first appearance in
Grand Lodge in 1903, was appointed by Grand Master Nutting to serve
as Grand Marshal; and again appointed to this office in 1904. He was
also given the responsible post of Inspector in 1904, which position he
filled in a most active way until his election as Junior Grand Warden
in 1917.
In 1905 he served as a men:ber of the Committee on Returns, and
in 1914 was appointed chairman of that most important adjunct of
Grand Lodge, the Finance Committee, which place he ably filled until
1917.
During his incumbency as Inspector he originated and caused to
be made a real factor in MasOI1ic relief work the scheme of a general
participation by all the brethren of the Jurisdiction in the glorious
effort of educating the members of the Cr;ift to a proper notion of
personal responsibility one to another, and raising a million dollars
for the Endowment Fund of our Masonic Homes-a dream that will
yet come true.
He is a member and was the first High Priest of Marin Chapter
No. 102, R. A. M., and a member of California Commandery of
Knights Templars.
Such in too brief form is the sketch of the life and activities of
our. retiring Grand Master. It is the prayer of the writer that it may
be ma~y, many years before the Finis may be written, and that he may
be spared to his family, and to us, to a green old age.

"ranh ijohge of Qlalifnrnia
I, JoHN WHICHt&, Grand Secretary of the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge
of Free 4nd Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Seventy-second .
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the eleventh day of October, A. L. 5921, and terminated on
Friday, the fourteenth day of said month.

3Jn Wrstimnny W4trtnf.
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this twentyninth day of October, in the
year of Light, Five Thousand
Nine Hundred and Twentyonc.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M .". W .". GRAND LODGE
OF

1J1rrt au~ J\tttptt~ :!laaoua
OF THE

] urisdiction of California
AT ITS

Seventy-Seco.,.d Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 11th, A. D. 1921, A. L. 5921
AND TERMINATING ON

Frklay, Ocfober 14th, A. D. 1921, A. L. 5921

SAN

FRANCISCO :

SHANNON ·CONMY PRINTING COMPANY

1921

GRAND OFFICERS
OP THlt

GRAND
LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE YEAR COMMENCING OCTOBER , A. L. 5921
Grand Master....,.........................'................................................ Samuel E. Burke
619 Trust and Savings Building, Los Angeles.
Deputy Grand Master...·-·····································-·:·····William A. Sherman
Lombard and Battery Streets, San Francisco.
Senior Grand Warden.......................................,......................Arthur S. Crites
Bakersfield.
Junior Grand W arden ................................................................David J. Reese
Ventura.
Grand Treasurer...·-················-········-··································William P. Filmer
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
Grand Secretary.............·-····································-···············--···-John Whicher
Masonic Temple, San Francisco. .
Grand Lecturer........................................---·········-········-··········Thomas J . Baker
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Chaplain....·-····-··········-·················-··············-·-- William MacConnack
732 South Burlington Avenue, Los Angeles.
Grand Orator..•.............................................................................Will H. Fischer
123 South Mariposa Avenue, Los Angeles.
Assistant Grand Secretary.......................................·-··-······Harry S. Johnson
Masonic Temple, San Francisco:
Grand Manbal..:.~.~·-··························-······-··············.-·····Carl H . Heilbron
Southern California Electric Co., San Diego.
Grand Standard Bearer..............................~.......................Malcolrn Macintyre
Honolulu, T. H.
Grand Sword Bearer.............................................................:Francis J. McCoy
.
Santa Maria.
Grand Bible Bearer..........~···················-······································David Lininger
Auburn.
Senior Grand Deacon.....................................................David M. Sutherland
Wilcox Building, Los Angeles.
Junior Grand Deacon................,...............................
Andrew S. Lamond
Burlingame.
Senior Grand Steward..•.........................................................Leonard S. I:eavy
259 City Hall, San Francisco.
Junior Grand Steward..............................................................Ralph A. Chase
939 So. Harvard Boulevard, Los Angeles
Grand Pursuivant.................................:..........................Theodore J. · Milliken
Courthouse, Sacramento.
Grand Organist..................................................................Charles E. Anderson
635 Frederick Street, San Francisco.
Grand Organist Emeritus.................................................... Samuel D. Mayer
1272 Clay Street, San Francisco.
Grand Tiler.........................................................................:......Franlc G. Watson
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco.
y

. .. . . .

GRAND LODG E
OP

1J1rrr auh i\rrtptth flannnn
OP' THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Seventy-Second Annual Communication
The Most W o~shipful Grand Lodge of Fr~e and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California commenced
its seventy-second Annual Comm unication in Masonic
Temple in the City of San Francisco, on Tuesday, October
11, A. L. 5921, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Prior to the formal opening, Past Master Hugh K.
McKevitt presented to Grand Lodge a complete and beautiful set of jewels and furniture, the gift of our Grand Tiler,
Brother Frank G. Watson. The list presented is as follows:
Bible, square and compass and case, emblem overlaid
with gold, comport and case, ceremonial vessels and case,
three silver water pitchers with silver trays and silver glass
holders and glasses, three golden candlesticks and case,
one ebony baton with mahogany stand, Bible board, board
for Principal Architect, two gold W arden's columns, ceremonial implements and case. Tiler's sword, Grand Sword
Bearer's sword, rods for Deacons and Stewards, six apron
boxes, a particularly fine banner on which was worked the
seal of Grand Lodge, and a large sit~ American flag.
Brother Watson was called in and blushingly accepted
the enthusiastic thanks of his brethren for his timely and
thoughtful gift.
(375)

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Roll call disclosed the presence of the following :
. GRAND OFFICERS

M:. w:. GEORGE F. RoDDEN .............•....................••.....................•Grand Master
R.', w.·. SAMUEL E. BURKE .............~ ..........................Deputy

Grand Master
R:. w:. WILLIAM A. SHERMAN................................Senior Grand Warden
R:. w:.ARTHUR s. CRITES .......................................Junior Grand Warden
v:. w:.]oHN WmcHER ........................................................Grand Secretary
V. ·. W. •• THOMAS ] • BAKER: .....................................................Grand Lecturer
w.·. HARVEY D. LovtLAND................................................c...Grand Orator
w:. HARRY S. ]OHNSON .............................. Assistant Grand Secretary
w.·. SrnNtY B. FoRcE .......................................................... Grand Marshal
w.·. CHARLliS s. CHAPMAN ................................ Grand Standard Bearer
w.·. RUDOLF BECK .........................................: ..••.•...... Grand Sword Bearer
w.·. DAVID LININGER .................................................... Grand Bible BeMer
w:. OTTO]. MouRON ....•.......- ................................ Senior Grand Deacon
w:. HERMAN M. WALLENSTEIN.........................Junior Grand Deacon
w.·. ALVIN P. ROGtRS ............................................Senior Grand Stew<Wd
w.·. MALCOLM MACIN'tYR!';...............................:. .!unior Grand Steward
w.·. THEODORE J. MILLIKEN.......................................... Grand Pursuivant
w.·. SAMUEL D. MAYER .......:........................... ,................Grand Organist
w:. FRANK G. WATSON ............................................................ Grand Tiler
PAST GRAND MASTERS

M:. w:. WILLIAM T. LucAs
M:. w:. FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI
M:. w:. CHARLES L. PATTON
M:. w:. ORRIN s. HtNDERSON
M:. w:. GEORGE w. HUNTER
M:. w:. DANA R. WtLLJiR
M:. w:. ALONZO]. MONROE
M:. w:. Bl(NJAMIN F . BLJ(DSOE
M:. w:. ALBERT G. BURNETT
M:. w:. FRANCIS v. KEESLING
M:. w:. WILLIAM RHODES HtRVEY M:. w:. BRADFORD WJiBSTl(R
M:. w:. CHARLtS ALBERT ADAMS
and the Representatives of 393 chartered Lodges and Delegates from 19 Lodges under dispensation.
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by appointing
W.'. Hans P . Jansen as Grand Treasurer, and V.'. R.'.
Edgar F. Gee as Grand Chaplain, and Grand Lodge was
opened in Ample Form,. with music by the California quart ette and prayer by the Grand Chaplain.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

377

PRAYER

Almighty God! our Heavenly Father, in whom we live and move
and· have our being, we invoke Thy Blessing upon us Thy children
here assembled in Thy Name and Presence. May Thy favor ever
rest upon our Beloved Institution. Guide and direct us aright in all
our deliberations, to the advancement of those principles upon which it
is founded. We offer Thee grateful thanks for the many blessings
vouchsafed to the Fraternity throughout this jurisdiction and for the
harmony that has prevailed during the year past. P our out Thy richest
gifts upon the Grand Master and upon all who bear authority in this
Grand Domain.
·
For ou; nation would we offer our intercession. Endow with Thy
divine wisdom Thy servant the President of the United States, his
cabinet, the Governor of this State, and all others who guide and
shape the affairs of our country. Bring to naught the designs of those
who seek to undermine our lawful government, constitutional liberties
and religious institutions. As the representatives of the nations gather
for the consideration of the limiting of armament on land and sea,
do Thou preside in their council, aid and direct them to a right decision;
and in Thine own good time make wars to cease and world-wide peace
prevail. Finally, we woµld commend to Thy Fatherly care all those
of our brethren in need or distress-the aged, rhe widows and orphans
to whom we are privileged to minister.
Increase in the heart of every Brother Mason within our borders
a sense of obligation to relieve the suffering and to assist the un fortunate.
Fill us with the spirit of true patriotism and enable us ever to
exemplify in our daily lives those Masonic virtues and graces which
shall ~eflect honor upon our Institution and eventually win Thy commendation in the great Day of Award. Amen.

The Grand Master announced the following appointments:
Committee on Charters: Will H. Fischer, William E. Wood,
Charles B. Greeley, Trustom R. Dinsmore, Charles 0. Hamilton.
Committee on By-Laws: Charles K. Tuttle, Theodore M. Wright,
Frank W. Mixter, A. F. Souza, Jr., Reginald W. Clapp.

378

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address,
as follows:
Brethren Qf the Grand Lodge:
Our laws decree that upon the second Tuesday of October
of each year ·at the hour of 10 o'clock a. m., the Grand Lodge
of California' shall convene. Obedient to that manda.te, .then, we
are met in this, our seventy-second annual communication, here
to review and pass judgment upon the work that has. bee~ done
in the year now nearing its close; to scru~inize and d.e termme, as
1 as may be the present state of our affairs, and, out of
near Y
•
·
· 't f full
the rich wisdom of the years that are gone, m a spin o
justice, with high hope, steadfa~t pur.pose and abiding f:ith tha~
Almighty God in His heaven will smile upon our efforts, to for
mulate such plans for the future as wi~l bes~ conduce to t?e wellbeing of our Institution and the satisfaction and happiness of
its members.
.
For reasons that must be obvious, the law provides, too,
that before aught else is ·done, the Grand . Master shall .r~port. to
his brethren and lay before them an account of his admm1stratton
of their affairs.
In consonance with that provision I present m~self .b~f.ore
you this morning to give to you the record of th~ year s ~ct1v1t1es;
to outline for you the code of reasonin~ by which certam deductions were drawn or conclusions reached; and to offer fo~ your
consideration those matters which I believe to be . gumai~ and
which have impressed themselves upon me as be.mg adv.1sable
or necessary. I frankly confess, however, that this task _is approached with no little trepidation.
As I review the past in the unsoftened and unsy.mpa~hetic g~are
of the written word-as I contemplate the huge wmdm11ls ag~mst
which my puny lance has tilted and the feeble marks mad~ there~n,
there is forced upon me the feeling that, in the selectt~n . of its
Grand Master, our last Grand Lodge surrendered conviction to
kindness and permitted friendship to become the master over
reason.
There is fear in my mind and a trembling in ~y heart
lest I have proven altogether inadequate to the work mt~usted
to me-lest my poor judgment has mistaken will to do for wisdom
in accomplishment.
If that be not true and you can, in fair conscience, extend
· some small measure of approval, I shall be glad. If, on the other

379

hand, my fears. be well founded-if it be discovered that I was
right when I suspected myself to be wrong-if it becomes necessary for you to disapprove, then must I seek retreat in the deep
covert of your generosity, solace in your charity, and with Stevenson, devote myself to reflection upon the corrections the while
I admire the castigators.
But whatever the aspersions cast upon Grand Lodge, there is
one. subject upon which I believe there can be no debate, no
controversy. That is the splendid condition of Masonry not only
in this, our own Grand Jurisdiction, but throughout the civilized
world. It may be that propinquity has distorted my vision; it
may be that proximity and contact have destroyed the perspective;
it may be that the intensity of my desire has summoned forth
and materialized the phantom of my hopes to delude me. But, as
I stand before you this morning, I am happy in the conviction
that never, since its history began, has Masonry been more robust,
more highly respected or more influential in its appeal, than now.
From all parts of our broad land comes the same glad news.
Men high and mighty in political, social and economic affairs;
men immersed in the practicalities of commerce; professional men
and humble toilers--all are equally eager to march beneath our
standards, to subscribe to our doctrines and to permit their lives
and destinies to be shaped and determined by the precepts of
our Institution.
·
But could it be otherwise?
When we review the recent and immediate history of the
world, with its strife and turmoil; with its social fabric rent and
torn; with the very souls of men poisoned by unworthy passions;
with estab1ished human relationships disturbed or destroyedmust we not conclude that it is but natural-yes, inevitablethat men of character and understanding, of high ideals and lofty
purpose, should seek to ally themselves with an association the
first and most important of whose tenets is Brotherly Love,
and with recognition of their individual responsibility, hail the
opportunity to serve in that Institution which, like some great
ship, is ever moving onward-silently, steadily, irresistibly onward
-bearing its precious burden of kindness and comfort to those
who are afflicted; of sympathy and compassion to those who are
downtrodden, and abundance of fellowship wherewith to re-establish and strengthen the ties of friendship so rudely sundered yet
so vital to the well-being and happiness of humanity?
Adverting to our own Grand Jurisdiction: While in point of
numbers we have scarce reached the magnificent total of initiates
which last year offered, still the results have far exceeded our
most sanguine expectations. Consideration of unstable and de0

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

pressed financial cond.itions would seem to lead to and justify the
thought that there would be a decided falling off in the number
of our petitioners. The facts, however, as deduced from the
Grand Secretary's report, indicate that such suspicion w.ould not
be well founded. As nearly as the figures may be tabulated at
this date, our number of initiates was 9,198; passed, 8,903; raised,
8,822; affiliated, 1,321; restored, 303, and the total membership is
now approximately 85,200.
But, after all, I believe we are all agreed that the number of
candidates is not the first or most important consideration. Quality rather than quantity, character rather than crowd, seems to
be the underlying policy of all our Lodges. Not only are the
qualifications of candidates most carefully scrutinized through the
prescribed processes of investigating committees, l!ut in many instances the Lodges have gone to still greater lengths. A form
0 f petition is often used which, in addition to meeting the stipulated requirements of our Constitution (section 246), invites answers
to many specific questions concerning matters upon which the
Lodge desires to be informed.
Another plan, used most effectively by many Lodges, comp~ehends the appointment by the Master of a special committee
-usually composed of Past Masters-whose function and custom it is to request the pr'esence of the petitioner and by personal contact and observation, as well as ·by interrogation, so
equip themselves that they will be enabled to act in an advisory
capacity; thus throwing up an additional line of defense around
the personnel of the Institution and adding another safeguard
against undesirable affiliations in the Lodges.
This is all very reassuring and gratifying, but mor~ than that,
it is significant, for it indicates clearly the attitude of mind and
heart which the brethren hold toward their Fraternity.
And may I say in passing, that the Grand Master has been
sincerely impressed and profoundly touched by the magnificent
spirit displayed. Wheresoever I have gone-and my year. has·
been very full-there were to be found the same reverence for our
established principles, the same eagerness in proffered service,
recognition of civic and domestic duties and pride in their performance, obedience to the laws of the Fraternity and fealty to its duly
constituted representatives.
But over and above all, the really high light is the close l!ond
of fraternal affection which holds our brethren in such close communion. In whatsoever community one may find himself, there
will be discovered Masonic brethren working and 'playing together
in perfect accord, upholding their Masonic traditions with every

evidence of their exalted appreciation of the relationships that
should exist between them and the parts they should play in the
affairs around them.

380

381

Necrology.
But while we are gathered here this morning, exultant in our
pride and rejoicing in our strength, we must not be unmindful of
the fact that God in His wisdom has chosen to call from our midst
many who have endeared themselves to us, and who, under the impulse of high ideals and worthy purpose, became exemplars of the
best that Masonry teaches.
Could I but follow the bent of my own inclinations, I should
pay tribute to each of them by having his name read in this open
.;ession. But if we should attempt to do full justice to all and
extol their many virtues, it would be to consume the entire time
allotted for this communication. I must, therefore, content myself by referring only to those who have served this Grand Lodge
in official capacity:
John Plaskett Jarman: On May 8, 1921, our Grand Bible Bearer,
John P. Jarman, was summoned to meet his Creator. His very
name was a synonym for all that was noble. Generous, gracious,
sincere, devoted in his attachment to Masonry, unswerving in his
devotion to his family and friends-there was indeed a man. Always responsive to the call of duty, and mindful of the civic responsibilities entailed by good citizenship, he suffered himself to
be elected to and served through many years in unremunerative
and sometimes ungrateful but most important positions in his home
city. His reputation .for integrity was so high, his thinking so
clear, and his judgment so ne;irly infallible, that even those who
opposed him politically had only the highest respect for him, and
rested content in the knowledge that his approval assurec:I the
righteousness of whatsoever cause he chose to espouse. As we
visualize him sitting in his station in the east, with that kindly, everpresent smile playing over his handsome face; as we hear. again
that soft gentle voice, always raised in solicitous inquiry concerning his friends; as we remember his all-embracing, all-pervading
love for humanity at large, it is poignantly brought to us that
here was a man fit to dwell in the "wide house of the world,"
and it is with difficulty that we' refrain from crying out against
the dread decree which took him from us. Having been invited to
do so by his dear wife, I convened Grand Lodge at the city of
San Jose and on May 13th, with all the solemn ceremonies of the
craft, he was laid away.
The great audience that assembled on this occasion was irrefutable evidence of the love that his friends bore for him and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the mountains of beautiful flowers which covered his resting place
would seem to have attested the fact that all the city of.his home
sorrowed.
Granville D. Warren: On September 16, 1921, the Grand
Master was inexpressibly shocked and horrified on learning of the
untimely death of his dear friend and co-worker, Granville D.
Warren.
Soon .the dread news was communicated to . other of his
friends, of whom there were legion. Stunned to the very root of
our consciousness, it was with great difficulty that realization came.
Then a ·pall of sorrow settled over us. Our friend of many years,
our companion in all forms of activity, the · useful, the revered
Grand Warren was no more.
It was so easy to recall him as we had seen him but a few
short weeks before, surrounded, as ever, by a large coteries of
laughing friends, with a glad smile for each and a hearty hand
clasp or shoulder pat for the especially favored ones.
It seemed SG easy to remember him in action, as, in the performance of his duty as Inspector, he went among the officers,
praising here, admonishing there. With an ear quick to detect
the slightest departure from the strict letter of the ritual in which
he was so thoroughly versed, with a r\:verence for perfection which
became a distinguishing characteristic, it was difficult to escape
his vigilance or create excuses which would satisfy.
But when corrections were necessary, they were made with
such gentle firmness that they carried with them no sting of
resentment, no germ of discord.
Capable and strong, unselfish and self-effacing, he commanded
the respect and love of his myriad friends. Surely his name should
be writ large upon the scroll, for Masonry and the world in which
he lived owe a great debt of gratitude.
Otir hearts go out to his stricken family in loving sympath '·
E . E. Knepper: Some years ago, during the convocation of ·
Grand Lodge, I was delighted and surprised to receive a most cordial greeting from one, whom I, while serving as Master of my
mother lodge, initiated into the mysteries of our craft. Shortly
thereafter, and much to the regret of the brethren who had become
sincerely attached to 'him during his short stay among us, he
chose to obey a call to distant parts and passed beyond our ken.
The meeting in Grand Lodge revived old memories and sentiments; since which time, whenever our paths have crossed, we
have enjoyed delightful hours together.

Imagine my dismay when I received a brief letter, under date
of November 22, 1920, from Brother W. E. Hanna, Secretary of
Monrovia Lodge No. 308, announcing the death and interment of
the friend referred to, Brother E . E. Knepper, who had affiliated
with Monrovia Lodge and become Inspector of the 62d Masonic
District.
My personal relations with him were not such as to bring me
into contact with the more intimate side of his life, but the brethren
of his district, more fortunate, speak of him in terms of highest
praise.
At the time the summons came, he was Assistant Superintendent of Schools in Los Angeles County. His clean, straight upstanding manhood, broad vision and warm colorful personality
had won for him the confidence and esteem, not only of his professional and fraternal brethren, but of all the lay world around
him.
Surely the loss of such men is a grievous one; and even the
most discerning minds must be baffled in the effort to discover
the promptings in God's immutable law.
It is in the mind of the Grand Master to request Grand Lodge
to pass resolutions ' of esteem and regret that these beloved friends
have been t~ken, and to direct our Grand Secretary to send copies
of such resolutions to their bereaved families, with the thought
and in the hope that the dark days will be, in some small measure,
brightened thereby.
I have thought it well, · too, to set aside some few hours of
this Communication that we, desisting from all business, may foregather and pay solemn tribute to their memories. I therefore conjure you, my brethren, to assemble here on Thursday morning a~
11 o'clock, with prayer on your lips a nd love and gratitude in your
hearts, that we may, with appropriate exerci~es, manifest our love
for and appreciation of those who have been taken from us.

382

383

Visits for Special Purposes
Less fortunate than the. M.'. w:. Brother Adams, it was not
my privilege and pleasure to raise my own son during my tenure
as Grand Master. My eldest son lacked some sixteen years of the
required age. Perhaps that was due to lack of forethought, perhaps it was attributable to the fact that I had no prescience as to
just when the lightning would strike-when the purple would
fall upon my shoulders. Else things might have been differently
arranged. But eliminating the element of paternity, my experience
parallels his, for it was my rare privilege and great happiness to
journey to Delano and on the first day of September to raise my

..

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

ward and nephew, a lad whom I had held in my arms on the
occasion of his baptism, to membership in our Lodge at that place.
Our Grand Lecturer assisted with ·his usual excellence in the
capacity of Senior Deacon. Due to the friendly courtesy of the
officers and members of Delano · Lodge No. 309, the significance
of the occasion and the extreme care which had · attended the
preparations, the meeting was a most inspiring one, and I believe
provocative of great profit to the Masons of that district, to the
Grand Officers and the candidate.
From the extreme pleasure which came to me as the result
of this experience, I felt myself competent to measure the joy of
a father when it is given to him to exalt his own son to the sublime degree. Therefore, anxious to share their happiness, I accepted with great alacrity invitations to be present and participate
in the solemn and beautiful ceremonies which attended the raising
of the sons of Brother Fred Arbogast (for years a most competent
Inspector), now devoting himself to the employment branch of
the Oakland Board of Relief, and of Brother Charles M. Wollenberg, President of the Board of Trustees of our Masonic Homes.
In both instances the fathers presided and completed the glory
of fatherhood by transmuting their sons in~o Masonic brothers.
All who were ·s o fortunate as to be present on either or both
these occasions must have rejoiced that such great happiness had
come as a reward to these splendid men.
Because the roster of Masonry is replete with the names of
famous men, it might be assumed, logically, that to add another
. would occasion but little comment. Familiarity often engenders
indifference. But try as we will to hold steadfast to the principle
of democracy and to the landmark that, in Masonry, all men are
upon a level plane, we cannot avoid being a bit jubilant and proud
when a man, who, by his virtues and ability, has won for himself
universal respect, admiration and international fame, evidences
his faith in us by desiring affiliation. On Saturday evening, August
13, a great body of Masons ,(many coming from dista nt places)
assembled at Santa Rosa, there to witness or participate in "the
raising of L uther Burbank. Seer and wizard, with a life of
achievement, foremost of his craft in all the world, he that night
gave us a lesson in those qualities of modesty and humility which
distinguish the truly great, and which should be of such splendid
value to all who would profit thereby. The Grand Master was
honored with an invitation. which he was more than pleased to
accept.
Island Lodges.

visit our Island Lodges. You will pardon me, I know, if I confess that the refusal put a great tax upon my power of decision.
The reports of Past Grand Masters who have visited there, the
accounts of Masonic enthusiasm, generous hospitality and personal
kindness of our brethren, together with the fairy-like beauty of that
land of sea and flowers, will inspire all future Grand Masters with
a desire to emulate the example and them selves enjoy the sweets.
But for the present Grand Master " 'Twas not so to be." H e must
perforce content himself and find his satisfaction in the t hought that
he was able to exercise his self-control and deny himself even
against most defi nite inclinations to do otherwise. Believing, however, that the sterling worth of those true Masons would not permit that they should be neglected, anxious that they should know
the warm place which they have in our hearts, and that the broad
sea which lies between does not constitut e a chasm to separate
us, we directed our Grand .Lecturer to proceed thither and to
represent us in person. Brother Baker's p ersonal popularity there,
as everywhere, made him a most welcome visitant, and he was
hailed with glad acclaim. His visit, too, gave opportunity for the
transmission of the following message:

384

Owing to the stress of matters requiring my presence in this
State, I found it. inadvisable to accept a very kind invitation to

"April 5, 1921.
"To the Dear Brethren of our Island L od ges :
"While in the person of our v:.w: .Grand Lecturer,
we fi nd a very loyal and dependable messenger; still it is
with deepest regret that we discover that we are compelled
to avail ourselves of his good offices in transmitting to
you our sincerest and most cordial greetings. It has ever
been our fervent hope that conditions would permit us
to visit you in person. In fact, we are convinced that the
dominant t hought in the minds, and hope in the heart s of
all Grand Masters, is that events will so shape themselves
as to make possible a meeting with you in yqur island
home. Although so fa r across the sea, we have often been
inspired by your lofty standards and the intensity of your
Masonic zeal. On many occasions you have manifested the
depth and strength of your attachment to our noble Institution and all that it stands ·for. May God give you
strength to continue and health t hat you may long enjoy
your labors.
"With the assurance ·of high est admiration and appreciation, w e are,
"Fraternally yours,
" GEORGE F. R ODDEN, Grand Master,"

385

386

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Service Association

and when the Association becomes firmly established, the necessity
for extensive traveling on the part of the Commissioners will
largely disappear. But on the other hand, it is also reasonable
to believe that as activities increase, expense will be augmented in
other directions. The justification for expenditure is largely
dependent upon two factors, namely, financial ability and values
received. In that the latter factor, in this· instance, is not determinable, we have given but slight consideration .to that aspect of
the situation.
As was indicated above, we realized the purport of our mission. We were there as your emissaries, -to bring hack to you such
information as would enable you, with understanding, to deter~ine
your course. With that thought in mi nd we have deemed it advisable to prepare and submit a special report. With full recognition
of our responsibility, we cannot believe that California, under existing conditions, should seek membership in the Masonic Service
Association, and we so recommend.
·
I am . deeply indebted to M.'.W.'.Brother Schoonover, chairman of the executive committee, for an invitation extended to me
to attend the third annual communication of the Association,
to be held at Chicago on November 9, 10 and 11, 1921. Appreciation of the courtesy was expressed in my reply, and the promise
was made that the invitation would be presented to Grand Lodge,
as I deemed it was intended more for you than for me.

Obedient to the mandate of Grand Lodge, the Grand Secretary and I attended, as guests, the annual meeting of the Masonic
Service Association of the United States, held at ·st. Louis, Mo.,
November 9, 10 and 11, 1920. The purpose of our visit was to
learn at first hand all that we could concerning the hopes, plans
and aspirations of that body of splendid men and Masons; and
having satisfied ourselves upon those matters, to determine so
nearly as our judgment would allow, in what manner and to what
extent they might be adjusted to the needs of California. Realizing that open minds were prerequisite to fair, impartial conclusions, we endeavored to put preconceived notions out of our
heads and to approach our mission in a spirit of even justice. We
were welcome to the forum with all courtesy and consideration,
and with t.he assurance from the · chairman, Brother Melvin M.
Johnson, Past Grand Master of Massachusetts, that jill privileges
(except the voting privilege) were ours.
For two days we listened to reports and statements, a recital
of the activities of the year, expressions of satisfaction and dissatisfaction over what had and had not been done, and finally an
exposition of future plans.
Aside from intense admir:ation for the ability and sincerity
of purpose of the brethren engaged, the impressions which we carried away were absolutely negative. We could not but feel that
something was desired-something great, something mighty, something altruistic, . something that would redound to the good of mankind-but just what that something was, was not( speaking in
mildest terms), convincingly clear. The method of accomplishment was equally vague.
The plan which had reached
nearest to the point of crystallization, was a relief plan which,
in the judgment of Brother Whicher and your Grand Master
(as indicated. in the joint .report to which we both subscribe)
carried with it too much detail. We, who have experienced,
know full well that where relief is required, prompt action
is demanded. I know that I speak your minds when I say that
where calamity has befallen or suffering exists, California believes
that relief should be disbursed immediately and without quibble,
and details, if any, cared for afterward. Wherefore, I cannot feel
that this Grand Jurisdiction can be in accord with the plan of
r"elief which the Masonic Service Association has evolved. The
expense of maintaining and operating the association (figures set
forth in joint report) seemed to us to be out of proportion to
the benefits accruing. We must, however, in fairness, give consideration to the fact \hat a large sum was expended to meet
the expenses incident to travel. It is logical to assume that if

387

Mexican Masonry
In the early months of the year I received the following letter from
the Most Worshipful Andrew L. Randell, Grand Master of Texas:

"My Dear Brother Rodden:
"I enclose a copy of the supplemental report of the Committ~e on Foreign Correspondence, adopted by the Grand Lodge
of Texas at its meeting last month, which is self-explanatory.
The adoption of this report was not a hasty action as a
result of the idea of some individual, but came after a great
deal of thought and consultation upon the part of a number
of leaders in this jurisdiction and after repeated interviews
with brethren of both Grand Lodges in the City of Mexico.
"This Grand jurisdiction has heretofore extended recognition to the York Grand Lodge of Mexico, the regularity of
whicli, as you probably know, has been repeatedly attacked by
the Grand Lodge Vallee de Mexico. Some jurisdictions in the
United States have recognized one of these grand bodies,
others have recognized the other, and still others have ex-

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tended recognition to neither. Besides these grand bodies with
conflicting claims, there are other grand bodies in the Republic
of Mexico claiming the right to recognition.
"We in Texas have given a great deal of careful thought
to conditions existing in Mexico, and we have reached the
unanimous conclusion that now is the accepted time· for
Masonry and for all other organizations looking to the uplifting and advaru:ement of that people to move forward to hi~h:r
and more secure ground. The President of the Republic is
not only friendly to Masonry and other institutions of similar
aims, but he is unfriendly to all those interests which are
inimical to the principles for which Masonry stands. A number
of his Cabinet members are reported to be Masons.
"In our judgment, the conditions in Mexico are more
favorable than ever before in the history of that war-torn
Republic, and the success or failure of all organizations which
~tand for civic and religious 1iberty during the next few years
will determine the conditions in Mexico for a generation or
more to come. The regular and proper activities of such organizations sorely need a united and active recognition and
support from ·the United States.
"Masonry in M·exico has not made the greatest progress
in r~cent years, because of the condition of affair: in that government, yet the qrder has lived, and to a certam extent has
grown, and AII}erican Masons on the ground are now of t~e
unanimous opinion, as far as we have been able to ascertain
their views, that the harmonizing of differences, if possible, and
a united backing from American grand jurisdictions, will enable
Masonry in Mexico to rapidly assume its due proportion of'
membership and influence.
"With these thoughts and ends in view, the Grand Lodge
of Texas took the action set forth in the inclosed resolution.
It was the hope of the Committee and of the Grand Lodge that
the representatives of other Grand Lodges in different section~
of the country would see fit to co-operate with the Gran~
Master of Texas and his Committee in making an investigation
on the ground which would be so thorough and complete and
so clearly set f~rth all the facts involved, that Mexican M~son:y
could be united in its work and American Masonry united m
its recognition. We felt, however, that we should official~
request the co-operation of the Grand Masters .and th~ Grand
Lodges of the border States, which are more directly mvol;ed
and more closely in touch with Mexican conditions. I am tak~ng
this up with the Grand Masters of Arizona and New Mexico,

in the hope that by prompt correspondence we may be able to
unite upon some plan of work together and some definite time
at which to make a visit to the City of Mexico, which will be
absolutely essential to a complete investigation.
" Please let me have your ideas and suggestions as to the time
to make the trip, the scope the investigation should take, the
methods to be used in making it, etc., and also be kind enough
to send me copies of data and reports that may have been
made to your ... Grand Lodge, and of any action which your
Grand Lodge may have taken in this matter. If you have any
personal views outside of these, an expression of them will be
greatly appreciated.
"I trust that I may hear from you as promptly as possible,
for the reason that at the best, a good deal of time will be
required to work out the whole matter of arrangements, ancl
I sincerely hope that there may be nothing whatever in the way
of your complete co-operation.
"It was my pleasure to meet you in St. ·Louis last November,
and I regret that I did not have opportunity for a real good
chat with you. I am wondering what impressions you have
received or what conclusions you have reached in reference
to the Masonic Service Association. Possibly I may have the
pleasure of seeing you again in Washington at the meeting of
the George Washington Memorial Association on February
21st.
'
"With all _good wishes, I am
"Cordially and fraternally yours,
"(Signed) The Grand Master."

,,

389

Following is the supplemental report of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, adopted by the Grand Lodge of Texas, December
9, 1920:
"To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Texas:
"We, the Special Committee to which was referred such
parts of the Address of the Most Worshipful Granc\ Master as
relates to the condition of Masonry in Mexico, undP.r the conflicting claims of the several grand bodies of that jurisdiction,
beg to report :
"First: We have not had sufficient time to make a satisfactory investigation of conditions in the jurisdiction of Mexico,
and for that reason we are not able to advise this Grand Lodge
to take any decisive action.

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LOD GE OF CALIFORNI A

"Second: We therefore recommend that a suitable committee, consisting of three members of this Gr~nd Lodge, be
appointed by the incoming Most Worshipful Grand Master,
which committ~e shall include the Grand Master if he is able to
act, and that such committee make a thorough investigation
of conditions now existing between the several grand bodies
claiming jurisdiction of symbolic Masonry in Mexico.
"Third: We further recommend that such committee shall
visit such places in the Republic of Mexico as may be necessary to enable them to obtain reliable information upon which
to base their report to this Grand Lodge.
"Fourth: We further recommend that all necessary expenses incurred by said committee in making such investigation be borne by this Grand Lodge, and that the Grand Secretary be authorized to issue his check against this Grand Lodge
to cover such expenses.
"Fifth: That the Most Worshipful Grand Master request
the Grand Lodge of New Mexico, the Grand Lodge of Arizona
and the Grand Lodge of California to co-operate with this
Grand Lodge in making a just and amicable settlement of this
troublesome question.
"Sixth: That, pending the report of such committee to the
next annual communication of this Grand Lodge, fraternal
relations between the Grand Lodge of Texas and Masonic
grand bodies in Mexico be severed.
"Signed by the Committee."

absolutely insistent and pressing. Not that I depreciated the
tremendous importance of the contents of your note, but I have
attempted to discover time which would make it possible fo r
·me to answer it personally, rather than by dictation, and I
found that a much larger. contract than I had anticipated.
"And, again, I was most anxious to satisfy myself concerning the attitude of the Masonry of Mexico with reference to
any such visit before acceding to your suggestion. Therefore,
I took it upon myself to commission Brother Bley, Deputy
Grand Master of a jurisdiction owing allegiance to the Vallee
de M'exjco, to discover for us while visiting in Mexico just
how such a visitation would be regarded. I was compelled to
await his return some months later, but was very glad to learn
that, insofar as he had been able to discover, such visit would
meet with the hear tiest approval of the Masons of Mexico.
"The~ too, believing that such a visit would have a very
strong bearing upon international conditions, I looked about me
to find some one who had particular influence with the Mexican government, and I have located one gentleman who is
reported to be very close to the President, and a letter from
whom. would go far toward making things easy for us.
"I may say, Most Worshipful Sir, that I am heartily in
accord with your proposed plan, and if the date decided upon
can be fitted in, I shall be very glad of the opportunity to
accompany you.
"Trusting that ,you will forgive my delinquency in the
matter of response to your communication, and with assurances of my highest regard and esteem, I am
" Sincerely and fraternally yours,
"Signed, Grand Master.''

Recalling the trite statement included in the address of Past Grand
Master Adams, to the effect that he felt convinced that it would be
extremely difficult, if not indeed impossible, to arrive at a proper understanding of the real condition of Masonry in Mexico, and therefqre,
to do full and complete Masonic justice, I felt that here was an
opportunity and way to accomplish the desired purpose, and sent the
following reply:
"June 2, 1921.
"Andrew L. Randell,
"Grand Master of Masons in Texas.
"Most Worshipful Sir and Dear Brother:
"My sincerest apologies are hereby tendered you for having ·so long deferred response to your courteous and important
communication relative to a proposed visit to Mexico. The reason
for my procrastination is to be found in the fact that personal
and fraternal affairs have so engaged my time that I have had
but slight opportunity to care for those matters which were not

391

Under date of August 8, I received the following telegram :
"George F. Rodden, Grand Master,
"San Francisco, Cal.
"Arrangements finally completed for Masonic delegation
t? arrive Mexico City morning of August 19. Splendid delegation from Texas. New Mexico and Arizona expected' to be
represented. Will remain in Mexico approximately two weeks.
Sincerely hope you or your representative will join us. W ire
personnel and I will make reservations. Answer.
(Signed) ANDREW L. RANDELL, Grand Master."
This telegram reached me at a time when I was deeply involved.
Important matters requiring my presence were pending. Many ~r-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

rangements had been made and invitations accepted which could not,
without serious inconveniences, be changed or disappointed. Realizing
the intense interest of Past Grand Master Adams in Mexican Masonry,
recognizing that he had more than a passing knowledge of the complicated situation, conscious that his willingness for service in all matters
appertaining to the craft would prompt him to lay aside pen;onal affairs
if that were humanly possible, I was impelled to invite him to act as
our representative. As I anticipated, he accepted without hesitation,
whereupon I wired Brother Randell as follows:

absence in Mexico, this formal report of my mission has been unavoidably delayed.
There are incorporated herein some observations and deductions
which would have been omitted except for the fact that as your personal representative I deem it only proper that you be as thoroughly
advised of the situation as you would have been had you been able to
spare the time necessary to avail yourself of the invitation extended by
the Grand Master of Texas to participate in the investigation of the conditions in Mexico to be made by the Commission authorized by his
Grand Lodge.
Mindful of the fact that you may desire to submit this report to
Grand Lodge as a basis for such recommendations as you may be
pleased to make, and to avoid anticipating, as far as possible, the report
which will be made by the Commission to the Grand Lodge of Texas,
which does not meet until December, I have herein made only such
references to that Commission as I believe are essential to a complete
review of the situation.
The Texas Commission was headed by Grand Master Randell. With
him were Past Grand Masters Sam P. Cochran, W. M. Fly and
A A. Ross, Bro. J. C. Jones, the Master of a Lodge in Dallas (as official reporter) and Brother Wilbur Keith, a representative of the
"Dallas News." Most Worshipful Horace Bain, Grand Master of
Louisiana, was with us, but neither Arizona nor New Mexico was
represented.
In order that there might no possible question as to the propriety
of anything I might do or say, and that I might not feel constrained
to concur in the Findings of the Commission if mine was the only
dissenting voice, I told Grand Master Randell that I understood that
I was there as your personal representative, and not as a member of
the Commission authorized by the Grand Lodge of Texas. I also explained to him that I did not believe that the Grand Master of Masons
in California could with propriety be considered a member of any commission authorized by a jurisdiction other than his own; and that I
assumed that as his personal representative I would not be bound by
any action of the Commission, either as to its Findings or with reference to the mode of procedure adopted for its guidance. I, however, of
course made clear to him that I was in absolute accord with the announced purpose of the investigation, and that I would cheerfully and
cordially co-operate to the extent of my ability.
As a matter of fact, there was a practical unanimity in all essentials, and such differences of opinion as arose were in the main only
with reference to incidental matters; and I believe that t.here was no
one who was not animated with the desire to do only that which should
be for the best interests of the Fraternity, and for the promotion in the
Republic of Mexico of the high ideals and principles of Masonry.

392

"August 10, 1921.
"Andrew L. Randell, Dallas, Texas.
"Past Grand Master Adams will represent California at
Mexico City. Kindly wire details as to time of meeting; also
when he should leave, and anything else which may seem necessary for us to know."
"G!lORGE F. Rooo!lN, Grand Master."
To which te!egram Brother Randell responded:
"George F. Rodden, Grand Master,
"San Francisco, Cal.
"My delegation reaches Mexico City morning of Friday,
August 19. Conference will begin soon as possible and extend
from ten days to two weeks. Delegation quartered at Princess
Hqtel. I have made reservations. Adams should arrange his
own passport and take fall clothing and light overcoat. I
will have all necessary data and material for investigation.
Am writing Grand Masters in Mexico Ci'ty of his coming. He
should bring with him any available material throwing light
on Mexican situation. Delighted with your appointment. Regret that you cannot personally be present.
(Signed) ANDR!lw L. RAND!lLL, Grand Master."
Whereupon Brother Adams departed for Mexico City under definite •
assurances from this 'Grand Master that he was absolutely free to
pursue his investigation without any restraint whatsoever, except 'what
might be imposed by conditions or his own good judgment.
Shortly after his return to San Francisco, Brother Adams, with
that meticulous care which characterizes his every effort, prepared and
submitted. to the Grand Master the following comprehensive report of
his investigations and conclusions :
September 30th, 1921.
To the Most Worshipful George F. Rodden,
Grand Master of Masons in California.
My Dear Grand Master:
On account of the press of matters which accumulated during my

393

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In this connection I feel that I should say to you that the appearance of this Commission was viewed with suspicion by the representatives of the York Grand Lodge. There had been printed, and more or
less generally circulated, a pamphlet written by Past Grand Master
Seamon of the York Grand Lodge in which it was stated that "the
object of this investigation (by the Texas Commission) is not to
upbuild Ancient Craft Masonry, but to help the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite to build up that organization in Mexico"; and that the
resolution adopted by the Grand Lodge of Texas withdrawing recognition of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico and providing for an investigation "represented only the wishes of some members of the Scottish
Rite who just happened to be .influential in the Grand Lodge of Texas."
It was furthermore directly charged that the investigation was "to be
made by men who are now 33rd degree men, or who expect to receive
that degree at an early date."
Of course this was very unfortunate; particularly in view of the
fact that there was at the time the inquiry was commenced, and perhaps
even yet is, a very strong suspicion that what had been done in Texas
was at the behest and solely in the interest of prominent Scottish Rite
Masons who had been expelled from the York Grand Lodge. These
charges did not emanate from some irresponsible person, but from ·.a
Past Grand Master. Furthermore Brother Seamon is a man widely
known, not only in Mexico but in this country as well, as an earnest,
zealous Mason ·and particularly well informed concerning the history of
Masonry in Mexico and qualified by a long residence therein to speak
with authority concerning the conditions. In this particular instance of
course his zeal outran his discretion; and his judgment had been swayed
by his prejudice.
I may her7 say to you that there is no member of the Texas Commission who could be more desirous than am I of being able to recognize as regular Masons the men who have been expelled by the York
Grand Lodge. Until I met them in Mexico, I did not personally know
them as did some of the members of the Commission; but I had heard
them very highly spoken· of by intimate friends of mine, and personal
:kquaintance confirmed the opinion of them I had thus formed. The
desire to see · the condition in Mexico so changed that we might hold
fraternal communication with, and regard as our brethren, Americans
of their character and standing, was therefore a very natural one; but
I am sure that there is no member of that Commission who would not
readily and willingly subordinate his desire to his. conception of right
and justice., The personnel of the Commission should be a guarantee
of this. Grand Master Randell's reputation for ability, integrity and
sincerity is not confined to the State of Texas; and no one who knows
him will believe that he was influenced by any unworthy motive in the
selection of his Commission.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

395

It is true that Bro. Cochran is the Sovereign Grand Inspector Gen·
era! of the Scottish Rite for the State of Texas; but he is also a Past
Grand Master and one of the best informed and most influential Masons
in the State of Texas. That with Past Grand Masters Fly and Ross
he was made a member of the Commission is no justification for Brother
Seamon's statement; because it clearly appears from a statement made
by Grand Master Randell that at the time that pamphlet was published,
not ·only had the persom~l of the Commission not been announced but
he himself had not yet determined upon the appointments the~eto.
Brother Randell also explained that the resolution of the Grand Lodge
of Texas withdrawing recognition from the York Grand Lodge was
adopted in order that the Commission might not be embarrassed in the
inquiry it purposed making, and that it might occupy a purely neutral
position.
The Grand· Master of the York Grand Lodge, M. W. Ernest
Nicklos, a sp!endid man and Mason, and who was never at any tim~
embroiled in any of the altercations to which I shall hereinafter call
your attention. expressed himself as being entirely satisfied with the
fairness of the Commission and the integrity of its purpose; ~nd with
the other representatives of the York Grand Lodge whom I met keenly
regretted, I believe, that any such charge or even insinuation had been
made. Indeed I think I may go even further and say that I believe
Brother Seamon, whom I had the pleasure of meeting in 'El Paso, is
sorry that he said what he did.
Although it is probable that the result of our visit will have rendered it unnecessary, I nevertheless deem it proper to premise my report
of what is proposed for the future by a statement of existing conditions.
For a proper understanding of the situation as it exists today and
disregarding for the moment the relations among individuals to ~hich
I shall later ·refer, a brief resume should be here made of what might
be termed
THI! L!!GAL ASPJ!.C't.

Insofar at least as this concerns the Grand Lodge of California,
no good purpose would be subserved by referring to the condition of
Masonry in Mexico prior to the year 1892.
In that year the Grand Lodge of California received a proposition
from the Body generally known as the "Gran Dieta" of Mexico to
enter into a treaty of fri endship. From the report of the Committee
on Jurisprudence it appeared that the Grand Dieta was organized i:s
1890; that it then had under its obedience 17 of the Grand Lodges and
320 subordinate lodges of the Republic of Mexico; that it had adopted
a constitution; and that it had also adopted a decree or order prohibiting any subordinate lodge under its jurisdiction or obedience from conferring the so-called Scottish Rite . Degrees in Masonry. Upon the
recommendation of the Committee action was deferred; but in 1898 rec-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ognition was granted the Gran Dieta upon the request of Brother Alexander K. ·coney, the Mexican Consul General at the City of San Francisco, who at the time was the Master of La Parfaite Union.
The Gran Dieta at its inception was a central Grand Lodge. Its
original constitution was subsequently changed so that it became in
effect a confederation of the symbolic Grand Lodges and practically an
alliance against the Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite in Mexico. In
1901 without one dissenting vote it was fo~mally dissolved, and the
Grand Bodies composing it were "returned the office of representation
before foreign Masonic Powers which they had voluntarily conferred"
upon the central Body.
Among the Grand Bodies of which the Gran Dieta was composed
was the "Gran Logia Valle de Mexico"; and in the year 1902 recognition was accorded that Grand Body by the Grand ,Lodge of California. The claim of the Valle de Mexico to control Symbolic Masonry
in Mexico was not, however, undisputed. There was in existence a
Body known as the "Gran Logia Santos Degollado"; but in 1905,
largely through the efforts of Grand Master J. 0. Mordough of the
Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico the Grand Lodge Santos Degollado
. <:eased its labors, and the lodges under its obedience surrendered their
charters and accepted charters issued to them by the Grand Lodge
Valle de Mexico. Thereafter and until the year 1910 there was a temporary cessation of the internecine strife in which Masonry in Mexico
had been so long involved.
As the situation is described by Brother Cecil C. Freston in the
pamphlet written by him and addressed to Brother Oliver D. Street,
the Chairman of the Foreign Correspondence Committee of the Grand
Lodge of Alabama : "There existed a reasonable condition of harmony
between the lodges which ~as perhaps due in no small degree to the
fact that with the development of the resources of the Republic through
the fnvestment of fabulous sums of foreign capital Mexican Masonry
became in closer contact with both English and American Masonry.
Nevertheless at the yearly sessions of the Grand Lodge there was
always more or less friction." This pamphlet of Brother Freston's, by .
the way, is about the only fair, calm, dispassionate review of the ••separation" which occurred in 1910 that I have seen; and I am sending
you a copy in order that you may be advised of the details to which
for obvious reasons I make no reference.
Viewed in the light of the history of Masonry in Mexico, the
schism which occurred in 1910 is not so extraordinary as it would
otherwise appear. The English speaking ·Lodges had grown in number
and influence. Many of the Mexican Lodges were, as they say, "en
suefio"-as we would describe it, they had become dormant. The English speaking Masons had been trained in Symbolic Masonry as taught
and practiced in the United States of America, Canada and England,

while the Mexican brethren had been trained to a greater or less
degree under the influence of Scottisli Rite Masonry. What seemed to
Mexican Masons to be eminently right and proper in the conduct of
their lodges was looked upon with doubt and apprehension by their
English and American brethren. In a sense Mexican Masonry was a
reflection of the political history of the Nation. The divergent idea8
and opinions entertained were to a great extent the result of racial
differences which could be neither reconciled nor overcome. The disinclination of the Mexican brethren to submit to constituted authority
and to abide by the will of the majority was no less evident in the
Lodge than out of it. On the other hand, from what I have been told
by men who passed through those stormy times which preceded the
secession of the Mexican brethren in 1910, I am not prepared to say
that the Mexican brethren were the only ones unmindful of the spirit
in which Masons should express their difference!; of opinion.

.396

397

The acrimony which it appears characterized many of the debates
at the Annual Communications of Grand Lodge was less excusable in
those who had been trained in Masonry as we under stand it, than
in their Mexican brethren for whom might be pleaded in extenuation
not only lack of experience in democratic institutions, but that fervid
temperament common to all Latin peoples.
If I were to analyze the real cause of the difficulties which c~l­
minated in 1910, I would say that it was the racial characteristic of the
Mexican brethren to which I have referred. They had not become
imbued with that spirit of democracy which impels the Anglo Saxon
to patiently submit to what we know as "majority rule." The trouble
arose over the adoption of certain amendments to the Constitution and
the election of the Grand Master. Brother Jose J. R eynoso, who had
been Senior Grand Warden in 1908, Deputy Grand Master in 1909, and
who after the death of Grand Master Moorhead had discharged the
duties of that office, was of course the logical candidate for the office
of Grand Master. For some reason or other, which I did not succeed
in learning, he was not acceptable to certain of the Mexican brethren
who proposed a candidate in opposition. Out of 81 votes cast Brother
Reynoso received 52. There were represented at that Communication
25 chartered Lodges. All the Lodges represented of course participated
in the election; but upon the result of the vote being announced, as
appears from a note in the printed proceedings, "P. G. '.M. Levi together with the representatives of Union No. 6, Felix Diaz No. 7,
Lealtad No. 15, Ignacio Ramirez No. 20, Benito Juarez No. 3, Fenix
U. D. and Delta U. D. (with the exception of representatives Adolfo
Fenochio, Eduardo Yarza, F. A. Soni, R. J . Guzman, E. Wort and
Alberto Pro) rushed out of Grand Lodge without sign or ceremony
and in great disorder, expressing their non-conformity with Brother

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Reynoso's election. There remaining a majority, 20 Lodges represented,
the labors of the Grand Lodge were continued in order."
The five seceding chartered Lodges, together with the two under
dispensation, and Benito Juarez No. 24 of the Orient of Guadalajara
subsequently, on the 23rd day of June, 1910, without notice to any of
the other Lodges, held a meeting and declared themselves to be the
true and only Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico A. F. & A. M. Thereafter they succeeded in obtaining the adherence of five· Mexican Lodges
which had been working under dispensation. This is the Body which
is today known as the Valle de Mexico.
After the secession of the Lodges just referred to, there remained
on the roster of the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico from which they
had seceded 16 American Lodges and 2 Mexican Lodges. This Gra.nd
Body at its next annul\! Communication in 1911 changed its name from
that of "Gran Logia Valle de Mexico A. L. y A. M." to "York Grand
Lodge of Mexico F. & A. M.", and as such is today fraternally recognized by twenty-nine of the American Grand Lodges and by the Grand
Lodges of England, Ireland, Manitoba, New Brunswick, New South
Wales, Philippine Is'.ands, San Salvador, Scotland, South Australia,
Tasmania and Victoria. The York Grand Lodge does not at this time
recognize any other Grand Body in the Republic of Mexico.
.In view of the fact that, in attempting to justify the action of the
seceders, so much has been said and written with reference to the
manner in which the amendments to the Constitution were adopted in
1910 (and ignoring for the moment the undisputed fact that the secession did not occur until after the seceders had failed to elect their candidate as Grand Master) I purpose here referring very briefly to that
matter.
For the most part, the objections are highly technical in their
nature; and although I shall not answer every objection made, I can
unreservedly say to you that in my opinion, based upon a by no means
cursory examination of the law, there is no warrant for the charge that
has been made that there was an "unlawful promulgation of a new
constitution designed to force the Mexican brethren out of the Grand
Lodge."
The fact that the Constitution which had been adopted in 1900 was
not suited to, the changed conditions had long been recognized. There
had been various amendments adopted from time to time, and in 1906
a committee was appointed "to revise the constitution and other laws
of the Grand Lodge." Nothing definite was accomplished apparently
until 1909, when Brother Moorhead was elected Grand Master. P. G. M.
Ernest Tudor Craig in referring to this matter says: "Brother Moorhead worked hard and faithfully. He took as his stand'ards New York,
Pennsylvania, Texas, and New ' Mexico combined with a careful study

of that of the Grand Lodge of England; but many others were studied
for points best suited to our needs. . . . After his death, at Brother
Reynoso's request, he then being Acting Grand Master, I went to the
room where Brother Moorhead had passed away and, picking up his
pencil, sheets and notes, faithfully transcribed on the typewriter all
that he had written. With this ~ompleted, at my request, Brother Reynos? appointed a committee consisting of Brothers Mordough, Young,
Waite and, I think,. Lynde-Lockwood, and myself. We carefully went
over every clause, meeting constantly, night after night for weeks. , . ,
The whole work of submitting the new constitution was done strictly
in accordance with the requirements of the old constitution. Printed
copies in Spanish and English were submitted to each Lodge. The
votes were carefully counted and recorded and to the very oest of our
ability everything was done masonically, properly and in order, and
the count was properly reported to the Grand Lodge."

398

399

This, of course, is an ex parte statement, but made by one who
apparently enjoys the confidence of all who know him. From the
· Grand Lodge Proceedings of 1910 it appears that a special meeting of the Grand Lodge was held on the 30th of January, 1910 and
that at that meeting "the draft of amendments to the Constitution
now in force, consisting of six articles, and the By-laws of the Grand
Lodge which consist of five chapters and 145 articles or sections,
were then read, and after full discussion were amended and finally
approved by a majority of votes as printed-two copies of which
have been sent to each Lodge. . . . · Bros. Domingo Leon and
Manuel Garcia put on record their protest against Art. 3, Chapter
1 of the By-laws, and Bros. Gonzalo de la Mata and Abraham A.
Chavez against paragraph A of Art. 16, Chapter 1 of the By-laws.
The reading and discussion of the amendments having been approved
in general, it was decided that the same should be referred to all
the lodges in the jurisdiction under the conditions to be determined
by the M. W. Grand Master."

In accordance with the action of the Grand Lodge the amendments were referred to the lodges for their consideration. Criticism has been made of the fact that accompanying the amendments
was a · notice that if no objection was received from a lodge it
would be assumed that that Lodge approved the amendments. As
a matter of fact there were only 4 Lodges which failed to reply;
and with the exception of one, all those Lodges were represented at
the Annual Communication held on the 24th day of March, 1910 and
had opportunity to protest if they desired.
The report of the Committee made at the Communication held
in March showed "that the new constitution had been entirely
reie.cted by the Lodges Leal tad, Felix Diaz, Ignacio Ramirez, Union,
Fieles Obreros and Chichindaro; a1111ost entirely corrected by the

400

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodges Tampico, Benito Juarez No. 3 and Fenix; that all the others,
including those which had not answered, and of which only Benito
Juarez No. 24 was not represented for the moment, had approved
it, with the result that 21 Lodges approved, being a complete
majority."
' rl ; ~JdM
Section 6 of Art. 99 of the old c;onstitution provided that "if
· one-half and one mcire of the Lodges" approved the amendment it
should be declared adopted at the next Annual Communication of
Grand Lodge. It appearing that none of the amendments had
received less than 21 votes out of 32 (the total number of Lodges
in the Jurisdiction) in accordance with the provisions of the
Constitution they were declared adopted; and the announcement
was made by the Grand Master in the usual manner by a stroke of
the gavel.
It is to be noted that with twci exceptions the objections came
from the Mexican Lodges located in Mexico City; and the amendment which they found particularly objectionable was that which
changed the law requiring that the officers of the Grand Lodge
must reside in Mexico City. Of the 32 chartered Lodges composing
the Valle de Mexico at that time only 8 were located in the City of
Mexico; and six of them were Mexican Lodges.
During the controversy which has raged during the last few
years the claim has been made that Bro. Reynoso's election was
illegal because he had never been elected Master of his Lodge, nor
served as such for six consecutive months . So far as I have been
able to discover there was no such objection urged at the time of
the election. Certainly there is no reference to anything of the sort
in the "Declaration" issued by the seceders on the 29th of June,
1910, nor in the resolutions contained in the copy of the Minutes
which accompanied that circular. There were but two reasons
therein given for refusing to be bound by the election of Grand
1Iaster Reynoso. One was that the "election was held without the
attendance of the majority of the legitimate Lodges, and because it
was held under the so-called new Constitution" and the other was
that "the officers elected did not reside in the City of Mexico." .
}1\Thether Bro. Reynoso was or was not ever elected Master of
his Lodge, and whether the fact should be determined by the certificate which is now produced, or by the official proceedings of
the Grand Lodge, is after all, in my opinion, a matter of no great
moment in view of the conditions presented, and of the law with
reference to the matter. As I have related, he was elected Senior
Grand Warden in 1908 and Deputy Grand Master in 1909; and that
he was a duly accredited representative of his Lodge to Grand
Lodge in 1908 is undisputed. Indeed his credentials were passed
upon by the brother whom he defeated in the election for Senior

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

401

Grand Warden. It is extremely unlikely that he would have been
elected Senior Grand Warden without a protest as to his eligibility
if there was any ground therefor. Now under the constitution, then,
as now, Past Grand Wardens are members of the Grand Lodge.
Not only as Deputy Grand Master, but as a Past Grand Warden
Bro. Reynoso was a member of the Grand Lodge in. 1910 and
entitled to a vote therein. Unless specifically restricted a brother
is eligible for election to any office of which he is an elector. The
production of a certificate was of course purely a matter of procedure, and one which a Grand Lodge determines for itself.
In any event, as I have said in view of all the circumstances,
the entire question is really in my opinion of too little moment to be
considered as a factor in determining the issues presented; and I
have perhaps devoted more attention to it than is warranted.
There is only one other question raised to which I deem any
reference necessary. At the time the name was changed to York
Grand Lodge, English was adopted as the official language, but
provision was made permitting the two Mexican Lodges which had
remained loyal to continue to work in the Spanish language; and
the Grand Secretary was directed to correspond with . those Lodges
in Spanish.
The argument advanceq in support of the objection to the use
of the English language is that it will preclude Mexicans from
becoming Masons unless they are able to speak English. The
fallacy of such an argument becomes at once apparent wlien it is
remembered that there are now Spanish speaking Lodges composed
of Mexicans under the Jurisdiction of the York Grand Lodge, and
that there is nothing to preclude that Body from authorizing any
Lodge to work in Spanish, or in any other language.
The original provision of the Constitution read as follows:
"Sec. 2. '.L'he Jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge is over all
regular Lodges working the York ritual and all F. & A. Masons
within the limits of the United States of Mexico, and the official language shall be English."
Because of the fact that that phraseology might be construed
as claiming jurisdiction over all Masons, irrespective of the Rite
practiced, which of course was never the intention, that Section was
subsequently amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 2. The York Rite will be employed in this Jur:sdiction,
and the official language of the Grand Lodge will be English."
While Olle may question the wisdom of such legislation, or even
its propriety, there can be certainly no doubt of the right of a
sovereign Grand Lodge to adopt as its official language that which

403

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it deems best suited for its purposes. It must be confessed that
the use by a Grand Lodge of a language other than that of the
country in which it is located is unusual; but the entire situation in
Mexico is unusual and extraordinary.
· ·
While I have not herein referred to all the objections which
have been urged against the regular.ity of the York Grand Lodge,
there is none I think which I have not carefully examined; and
while I would not unqualifiedly approve every one of its acts (and
all that it has done) I unreservedly express the opinion that that
Grand Body is well entitled to the recognition heretofore by the
Grand Lodge of California extended it tactily under its present
name, and formally when it was known as the Gran Logia Valle
de Mexico. So much for what I have termed the legal aspect of
the situation.
·
Notwithstanding what .occurred at the Annual Communication
of the Valle de Mexico in 1910, the period commencing about that
time and continuing until the latter part of 1919 was perhaps, all
things considered, the most harmonious in the whole history of
Masonry in the Republic of Mexico. Within ·a short time such feeling as had been engendered at the time of the secession completely
disappeared, and there were two Grand· Bodies each of which was
pursuing the even tenor of its way. It appears that there was even
an attempt made to enter into some rort of an agreement, under
the terms of which the York Grand Lodge would control the York
Rite working exclusively in English while the Valle de Mexico
would continue to work the Scottish Rite degrees in Spanish; and
while no formal treaty was ever made, there . was apparently a
sort ·of tacit understanding to this effect, and no complaint was
heard. The York Grand Lodge of Mexico was very generally recognized by the American Jurisdictions, and the members of the
Valle de Mexico were apparently not very greatly concerned
whether or not they obtained that recognition which the American
brethren so craved. The Scottish Rite Bodies accepted as members
Americans belonging to the York Grand Lodge, and Mexicans
belonging to the Valle de Mexico; and apparently made no dis.tine-·
tion between them. Bro. Seamon describes the situation as follows:
"The Mexicans who were fond of the Scottish Rite met together
with some English speaking members of the.Scottish Rite who were
prominent in the Shrine and Commandery and a few in the Chapter
of Royal Arch Masons, and the members of the Ancient Craft
Masonic Lodges met together with a few Mexicans who liked the
ideals of Ancient Craft Masonry and spoke English. The English
speaking Masons saw that it was wisest for them to keep their
own ideals and permit the Mexicans to run their Scottish Rite
Bodies in their own way. . For nine years peace prevailed. A few

Americans very closely identified in business relations with Mexica11s, and some who I believe had intermarried into good Mexican
families, associated more with the Scottish Rite Bodies and very
seldom took part with the Ancient Craft Masons. I understand
that some of the Mexicans objected to Americans coming into their
Scottish Rite Bodies but I have not followed up this matter, as
it was none of my business and I sympathized with the Mexicans in
their desire to rule their own Scottish Rite organizations. The
separation was found to result in good, and in spite of the revolutionary conditions in Mexico during all the past ten years Masonry
prospered and there was the normal, variable, activity in the
Mexican Scottish Rite Bodies."
The condition, it is true, was an anomalous one ; but neverthe·
less apparently very satisfiictory. At. all events the Americ;an
Masons were united, and the members of their Lodges received such
recognition from the American Jurisdictions as was accorded the
members of .any Lodge located in the Republic of Mexico.
Today, unhappily, the situation is far differe nt. Instead of
peace .and harmony there is discord and confusion. I am now
referring only to the condition in the City of Mexico. Digressing
for the mom.ent I may say that in Tampico, which I visited at the
request of Grand Master Nicklos, the condition is on..: in which
every American Mason may justly take p.ride.
In Tampico the York Rite Masons have a Lodge of about 230
members and have just completed a magnificent Temple costing
about $125,000. The utmost harmony prevails and they are doing
a wonderful work not only for their own brethren, but for sojourn- .
ing Masons. To the latter the Lo~ge means no less than it ·does to
its own members-perhaps more; because it is the one place to which
clean-living, right-thinking young men from the Oil Fields can go
when in Tampico, and where they are certain to find the association
they seek.
Here in Tampico is exhibited the real spirit of Masonry. It is
only fair to say, however, that it may be that the same spirit would
be found among the "rank and file" in the City of Mexico if it were .
not submerged in the vortex of hate which seems to have engulfed
their leaders, and which has divided the English speaking Masons
into two contending factions. Indeed the real quarrel, as I view it,
jg not betiween Mexicans and Americans, but between two groups of
Americans. One of these American groups, it is true, is now allied
with the Mexicans; but only, it is clear, by force of circumstances.
The woes of their Mexican brethren, it seemed to me, are but an
incident of their own quarrel. The situation furnishes another
instance of the truth of the old adage "Politics makes st~ange bed

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

fellows';" because curiously enough in this gro11p are men who are
in no small degree responsible for what occurred in 1910 and of
which they now complain. In talking with them concerning the
present situation in its relation to that of 1910, it was some times
difficult to remember just who was "we" and who "they." It would
appear that the "theys" of today are the "wes" of 1910. Both
groups however include splendid men, most of whom were until
1920 all brethren of the York Grand Lodge. Ther~ had been in
that Grand Body, as there not infrequently are in American Grand
Lodges, little cabals and factions, and the not unusual opposition to
the "organization" by those who are not in it. Until the happening
of the events I am about to relate, however, there had been apparently nothing of a more serious nature than what might be described as "Grand L~dge Politics." Unfortunately, however, there
was thus prepared a fertile field for any seed of discord. There
were rivalries and jealousies ; but until the latter part of the year
1919 there was no indication of that intensely bitter feeling which
is now so manifest.
I regret that I am compelled to say that there is a very general
belief, shared by brethren of both the York Grand Lodge and the
Valle de Mexico, that the condition which now prevails is due
primarily to the part played by one of our own brethren of whom
complaint was made last year, but who I still believe was actuated
by only the best of motives.
It appears that Bro. Forbes visited Mexico in the year 1919;
and it is said that on his arrival he announced that he had been
commissioned by the Sovereign Grand Commander of the Scottish
Rite of the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States of America
to investigate the condition of Masonry in the Republic of Mexico.
To thoroughly understand just what occurred and to appreciate
the effect of such an announcement, it must be remembered that
Masonry in Mexico is of Scottish Rite origin; and that the history
of the Valle de Mexico is the record of an unceasing conflict with
the Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite in Mexico for the control
of Symbolic Masonry.
Although the Supreme Council long ago formally renounced
any claim to the control of the first three degrees, there are still
Scottish Rite Masons, it is said, who contend that the regularity
or irregularity of a Grand Lodge and the Subordinate Lodges under
it is to be determined by the recognition or non-recognition of it
by the Supreme Council. This contention is cited as the reason for
the desire upon the part of the Supreme Council for "Treaties of
Friendship" with Symbolic Grand Lodges; and the Valle de Mexico
as it existed prior to 1910 had consistently refused to enter into
any such treaty. The Ancient Craft Masons looked with suspicion

upon anything which even by the widest stretch of imagination might
be construed as the indication of an attempt to question the absolute
sovereignty of the Symbolic Grand Lodge. On the other hand, at
the time of the secession, the Supreme Council recognized the
seceders as the legal Valle de Mexico and entered into a Treaty
with them; and in a Treaty made between the Valle de Mexico
and the Grand Lodge of Vera Cruz had been named as the Arbitrator of any dispute that might arise thereunder.
As a maher of fact, it is by no means certain that Bro. Forbes
had the authority it is said he claimed to have. In any event insofar
as the present situation is concerned it is immaterial whether he did
or did not have any authority from anybody. All that is material is
what he said and what was done.
·
It would not be fair to Bro. Forbes to here set forth the statements he is said to have made in private conversations with brethren who appeared before the Commission; because he has had no
opportunity to deny or explain them. Conceding that the witnesses
w~re absolutely honest and truthful, there is always to be remembered the fact that it is extremely difficult after any lapse of time
to correctly repeat conversations, and particularly if they occurred
during a stress of passion or excitement. Furthermore the really
important thing is not what he actually said, but the result thereof;
because he is not on trial, and reference is made to him only as a
factor in bringing about the present condition.
There is no doubt that the impression obtained by those with
whom he talked is that he would be able to, and would obtain
recognition' for the Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite of' Mexico
if that Body would declare the York Grand Lodge irregular and
clandestine. It is also certain that he publicly stated to members of
lodges in obedience to the York Grand Lodge of Mexico that they
were irregular and clandestine Masons, and that they could be
legitimatized only by joining with the Valle de Mexico which was
the only legitimate Grand Lodge; and. that he promised them that
if they would render a nominal obedience to the Valle de Mexico,
that Grand Body would enter into some sort of an arrangement
whereby there would be no interference with English speaking
Masons, and that the Grand Lodge Val!e de Mexico would change
fr~m the Scottish Rite to the York Rite ritual.
Whether or not any promises were actually made by Bro.
Forbes to the Supreme Council, the fact remains that the Supreme
Council did issue an edict or balaustre declaring the York Grand
:C-odge and its members irregular and clandestine, and proclaimmg the Valle de Mexico as a legitimate Grand Lodge. Copies of
this balaustre were sent to the members of all the York Rite lodges

404

405

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

giving them a certain time within which to "regul~riz~" thems~lves
by withdrawing from the York Grand Lodge and ytel~m.g obed1e~ce
to the Valle de Mexico. There were some wh'o, unw11lmg to withdrawn from the York Grand Lodge, sought to voluntarily surrender
their membership in the Scottish Rite Bodies. This however they
were not permitted to do; but were informed that the Supreme
Council had decided that no dimits would be issued to any member
who had not been first regularized by the Valle de Mexico; and they
were subsequently expelied.
The edict or balaustre of the Supreme Council was issued on
the 19th day of November, 1919. On the 1st day of December,
Grand Master Motta of the York Grand' Lodge issued an edi~t
suspending from all the rights and privileges of Freemasonry ~n
the Jurisdiction of the York Grand Lodge Bro. Forbes and six
others all of whom it was charged had been "at work among the
Craft breeding distrust and fostering contentions, especially among
the younger and less informed brethren, and by devious ways seeking to undermine the foundations of, and even destroy, the M. W.
Yark Grand Lodge of Mexico."
With the exception of Bro. Forbes, all the brethren suspended
were, I believe, members of the Supreme Co.u~cil-among. them
being the Lieutenant Grand Commander, Wilham L. Vail. In
justice to him it is only proper to say that I understand that h.e
was absent from the City of Mexico from the 1st day of June until
some time after the edict of suspension against him was issued. In
that edict, by the way, it was provided that anyone of the suspended
brethren who could produce satisfactory evidence that he was not
guilty of the charge made against him would .be released o~ t~e
sentence of suspension. All the brethren holding membership m
Mexico . were subsequently brought to trial in their Lodges and
expelled. One of the brethren suspended was a member of a lod~e
in Missouri and made protest to the Grand Lodge of that Jurisdiction from the edict of suspension. His protest, I understand, ~as
disallowed; and I am informed that charges were preferred aga1~st
him in his own Lodge.
· Those who were expelled from their lodges immediately organized with others in sympathy with them, a lodge of English speaking Masons under nominal obedience t.o the. Valle de Mexico. I
say "nominal" advisedly; because Mexico .City Lodge No. 35 ~c­
cepted its charter under a special agreement by the terms o.f which
it is practically a sovereign body. If ~n~ controver~y arises b~­
tween the Lodge and the Grand Lodge 1t ts to be decided by arbitrators to be named by the respective parties to the agreement; an.d
if these arbitrators fail to reach an agreement, the controversy is

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

407

then to be submitted for a de.finite decision to one of the Grand
L'o dges of Canada.
The occurrences just related of course created an iQtense feeling. Indeed I da"ubt that even in the most troubulous times through
which Masonry in Mexico has passed there was ever presented a
more deplorable situation than was thus created among the leaders
of the English speaking Masons in the City of Mexico. Business
and social relations were affected, and the most intimate personal
friendships disrupted. Men who had theretofore held each other in
the highest esteem, and who had been bound together not only'by
the ties of our fraternal brotherhood, but by obligations of personal
service, now met, if at all, as strangers. The pity of it all is that ·
these are splendid men who have become thus estranged a nd who,
working together unselfishly and with only the· best int erests of the
Fraternity at heart, could accomplish wonders for Masonry in
Mexico; and together with such men as Grand Master Luis Zalce,
Grand Commander Jose Cos, and the other high-class, educated,
liberal Mexican gentlemen whom it was my good fortu ne to meet,
and whose names I do not at the moment recall, they could establish such social relations between the best citizens of Mexico and
our own people residing there as would undoubtedly result to the
ultimate benefit of both Nations..
·
It was with this thought in mind that the Commission proposed a merger between the York Grand Lodge of Mexico and the
Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico upon terms submitted to the representatives of both organizations.
The proposition contemplates that there sha.11 be one Grand
Lodge to be created by a merger between the Yark Grand Lodge
of Mexico and the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico to be known as
the United Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico; and it was definitely
stated that if the terms of the agreement are carried out "The
Texas Grand Lodge Commission joined by the Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of Louisiana and the Representative of the Grand
Master of the' Grand Lodge of California, in their respective jurisdictions will undertake to secure the recognition of,..and fraternal
cooperation with, the new United Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico
on the part of these and all of other American Jurisdictions."
I am sending you with this a copy of the "s uggestions and
recommendations prepared by the Texas .Commission which constitute the terms of the proposed merger. I have not incorporated
them herein, not merely for the reason heretofore stated but for
another reason. I believe that formal recognition should be
·extended the York Grand Lodge under that name; and that that
recognition should not even seem to be predicated upon the will-

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ingness of the York Grand Lodge to effect a merger with the
Valle de Mexico upon the terms suggested, or. upon any other
terms.
The representatives of the Valle de Mexico immediately a_n d
unhesitatingly adopted the suggestions made by the Commission;
but the representatives -0f the York Grand Lodge were at first disinclined to do anything more than to extend an amnesty to their
f~rmer brethren. Indeed at a conference held by the Grand Master
with the other representatives of his Grand Lodge it had been
definitely determined to reject the proposition made by the Commission. Learning of this I asked Grand Master Nicklos to with·
hold his answer until after I had been afforded an opportunity to
confer with him and his brethren concerning the matter. This he
~ery graciously did; and they subsequently approved the suggestions and recommendations proposed by the Commission and
agreed to submit them to their Grand Lodge at a special communication to be held October 3rd. While I think I may say that it was
upon my advice that they agreed to the merger, in all that I said
it was distinctly understood that there. was· not even an intimation
that such recommendations as I might make would be dependent
upon their accepting that advice. On the contrary I took the
position that it. would be presumptious in me as a representative
of the Grand Master of Masons in California to attempt to coerce
the action of a Grand Lodge at least tacitly recognized as a Sov
~reign Grand Body by _our Grand Lodge; and it affords me great
pleasure to be able to say that the action of Grand Master Nicklos
and of Past Grand Masters Motta and Uhlfelder and the other
brethren was prompted only by an earnest desire to promote
harmony and to coordinate the efforts of all Freemasons for the
upbuilding of Masonry in the City and the Republic of Mexico.
Candor compels the admission that it was with some misgiving
that I advised the representatives of the York Grand Lodge to consent fo a merger. I was not unimpressed with the arguments they
advanced that the likelihood of the success in the future of such
a union as would result must be judged by the experience of the
past; and that those best qualified ey knowledge and experience
to form a correct opinion w"e re practically unanimous in expressing
the belief that any such arrangement would be at best but a temporary one; and that in acceding to the desires of the Commission
they were perhaps hazarding the recognition they had received
from American jurisdictions, other than those there represented,
who might not look with favor upon a merger with a Grand Body
which they (in recognizing the York Grand Lodge) regarded as
irregular and illegitimate. These were indeed cogent arguments
against a merger; but it was plainly evident that something must

409

be done if harmony was to be restored and I could suggest no better
plan that would meet all the difficulties presented.
If the origin of the Grand Body now known as the Valle de
Mexico had been such as would warrant a claim of regularity, I
would have favored the recognition of two Grand Bodies in Mexico under conditions as they existed by tacit consent before Mexico
City Lodge No. 35 was chartered by the Valle de Mexico. I am in
a?solute accord with Bro. Freston who believes that the extraordinary conditions existing in Mexico justify a departure from
the accepted ideas with reference to "recognition" I am even
prepared t?. question the correch;ess of the theory that precludes
t~e. r.ecogmhon of more than one Grand Lodge in any political subd1v:~1on larger ~.h~n a Cou~ty. Of co~rs ~ there can be no question
of Landmarks involved 111 connection with the recognition of a
G;and Lo?~e; "custom" can not be invoked because customs change
with c~n.d1h~ns; the only law which controls any Grand Body in the
;ecogmhon 1t extends to any other is that which it, itself, makes;
in the enactm~nt of its laws a Grand Body is not bound by
precedent; but 1f we were to be guided by precedent we would have
that whic~ was established when both the Grand 'Lodge and the
Grand Orient of France were recognized.
If two Grand Bodies, ·each sovereign in itself with relation to
other Grand Bodies, and each recognizing the regularity of the
other, mutually agree to occupy the same political territory, why
should tqat fact preclude other Grand Bodies from recognizing
both?
·
That, however, was not the situation presented1 and we were
confronted by a "condition and not a theory." I be 1ieved that the
plan suggested by the Texas Commission was at least worth a trial
and so advised the brethren of the York Grand Lodge. Whether
or not. t~~ mer~er, if effected, will prove a success will depend upon
the spmt in which the attempt is made to carry out its purposes.
. Al~hough it is just possible that when the parties approach a cons1derat1on of the details, now unforseen difficulties will be presented and
the agreemen: wi!I not. be consummated, it is more than probable' that
the merger will be effected. In any event, there is of course no good
reason why formal recognition should not, at this time, be extended
t?e Yo.rk Grand Lodge under that name; and at the same time provision m1g?t be made to have that recognition extend to any new Grand
Body which may be formed by a merger of the York Grand Lodge with
the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico.
If . such action meets with your approval, and you may be

p~e~sed to. so recommend, I suggest the resolution extending recognition be m some such form as follows:

410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Whereas, This Grand Lodge at the Communication of 1902
extended fraternal recognition to the "Grand Lodge of A. F . & A.
M. Valle de Mexico". and
Whereas, It now satisfactorily appears, after thorough inquiry
and investigation, that the Grand Lodge Valle de 'Mexico to which
recognition was so extended changed its name in 1911, and ever
since has been, and now is, known as the "Y i:>rk Grand Lodge of
Mexico F. & A. M."; arid that there is no reason why that recognition should be withdrawn: Now Therefore Be It
Resolved: That the Grand Lodge of California, being fully
advised of all the facts and circumstances, hereby formally extends
fraternal recognition to the York Grand Lodge of Mexico F. & A.
M. of which M. W. Ernest J. Nicklos is Grand Master; and that
the · Grand Master of Masons in California when so requested
arrange for ari interchange of fraternal Representatives; and Be it
Further
Resolved; That the Grand Lodge of California does hereby
express the hope that a solution may be found for the problems now
confronting Ancient Craft Masonry in the Republic of Mexico, and
that harmony may be restored; and commending the fraternal
spirit which .prompted the Grand Master' of the York Grand Lodge
and his brethren to adopt the suggestions and recommendations
of the Texas Commission for a merger with the Grand Lodge Valle
de Mexico, and confirming ·the assurance given at that time by the
Representative of the Grand Master of Masons in California, together
with the Texas Commission and the Grand Master of Louisiana,
Be it Further Resolved that in the event of a merger of the
York Grand Lodge of Mexico with the Grand Lodge Valle de
Mexico and the organization thereby of a new Grand Lodge in the
Republic of Mexico, the fraternal recognition hereby extended the
York Grand Lodge of Mexico be deemed to be extended the new
Grand Lodge so formed under whatever name it may be known.
Resolutions in this form would indicate what I believe, from my
investigation, should be the attitude of our Grand Lodge.
With assurances of my profound respect and esteem,
Sincerely and fraternally,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS.
Masonic Homes
At first I was disinclined to incorporate into this report any
reference to the Masonic Homes. That attitude of mind was

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

411

!Uperinduced, first, by the fact that a Grand Ma~ter'~ Message
even though it contain matters of interest and value, ~ust becom~
burdensome if protracted; and secondly, by the knowledge that
the Board of Trustees had prepared a very co.mplete and illuminating rep ort, wherein was set forth everything of interest. But
upon reflection I became convinced ·that by exhibiting too much
consideration for you, I would be showing too little appreciation
of and gratitude to those splendid men who, with an entire disregard of self and personal affairs, have devoted themselves so conclusively and effectively to administering the affairs of the Homes.
No one, unfamiliar with the details involved can have a
just conception of the measure and extent of their' devotion and
sacrifice. I do know that whatsoever they do is regarded by them
as a privilege. I do know that theirs is a labor of love, and their
full compensation lies in the knowledge that to them is given
op~ortunity to dispel the shadows which lie across the path down
which our old folks are traveling, and' to bring happiness and
fair promise into the lives of our little ones. We are very
proud of them, and proud of the work they are doing for us. It
has been my privilege on numerous occasions to meet and confer
with them in San Francisco, L os Angeles and at the Homes.
Consequently, feel myself competent to assert that neve r since
their establishment, have our Homes been more thoroughly or
carefully administered.
We find in Section 41 of our Constitution a provision which
requires the Trustees to set aside one-half of the moneys received for the maintainance of the Homes and one-half for permanent improvement. I cannot believe that to be other than
an unnecessary stricture upon the flexib ility of the funds and one
which may bring conditions to seriously handicap. It is easily
conceivable that there may come a time when there will be a
large amount in one fund and a small amount in the other, yet
the needs of the Institution would require that conditions be
reversed. A resolution will be introduced asking Grand Lodge
to remove this needless restriction and permitting the Board to
use the funds as necessities require. I believe t hat should be
done.
One cannot speak, either, in too high praise of the internal
operating staff. Our Superintendents, Brothers Hartman and
Spencer, have peculiar adaptability for their chosen work, and in
all they do ere competent and sustained by a spirit of exalted
humanitarianism. That is easily true of our Matrons and their
invaluable assistants. It would seem that the mere fact that these
good people have chosen to devote their talents and energies to

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

this line of endeavor would justify the assumption that they are
of the highest character and deserving of our sincerest commendations. Notwithstanding all this, our Home at Covina has not
entirely escaped criticism. Such is the perverseness of things on
this mundane sphere. Try as we will, it is never possible for us
to so comport ourselves but that there will be some to find fault.
During the more or less extensive building operations at Covina
there were of necessity many men employed. Owing to differences of opinion which arose and acrimonious discussions which
follow.ed, a spirit of discord and rebellion was engendered. This
finally resulted in the preferment of charges in our Covina Lodge
against Brother Spencer. The affair was of such serious nature
as reflecting upon the reputation of the Fraternity, that my at·
tention was immediately engaged. Complicating matters still further, one misguided brother, a· Past Master of Covina Lodge,
publisher of a local . newspaper, made copy of the text of the
charges, and the next morning an open-mouthed community was
regaled by a recital of the entire transaction. The course of
action to be pursued in the premises was very clear. I immediately deputized the Inspector of the Sixty-second District and
instructed him to make a most searching inquiry and discover
all that he could conce.rning the matter. May I say now, and
with a spirit of pride, that if ever man was faithful to his trust
in the performance of duty, that man was Inspector Frank M.
Beardsley. Forsaking his own interests, he devoted himself for
almost two weeks to the fulfillment of his mission. Driving
~bout in his machine, accompanied ·by a stenographer, he inter~iewed all interested parties and was indefatigable in his efforts
to uncover the truth. Promptly, upon the conclusion of his labors,
he compiled and filed with the Grand Master a report covering
three hundred and twenty-six pages of typewritten testimony. With
the information thus obtained the Board of Trustees was armed
to investigate in its own behalf. The entire Board met in a session covering several days; examined witnesses under the kind
surveillance of Past Grand Master Weller, and finally submitted
;i report of its proceedings. The summary of the findings of the
Trustees was, "We have carefully considered the charges made
against you and have concluded that the said charges are unfounded,
that they are probably the result of gossip emanating from former
employees who have been heretofore discharged for cause."
Had this written Finis across the face of things, .I would have
been glad, but I could not feel that I would be justified in failing
to take cognizance of the inexcusable violation of Masonic law on
the part of the brother who, although a Past Master and supposedly

413

~onversant. with the rules governing, chose to publish the proceedings of his Lodge. Learning through direct correspondencealt~ough the conditions were as related-his Lodge had taken no
actl~n, I sent a rather peremptory letter to the Master. His at tention was called to the fact that it was a m.at'ter of common
· knowledge and irrefutable that the brother had seriously transgr.assed the law, and that such transgression must not be per~1tted to go unchallenged. I expressed the hope that I might ,
immediately hear that he (the Master) had performed his plain
duty, and that such steps would be taken as would convince all
and sundry that. law is made to be respected and not despised,
and concluded with the statement that prompt action on his part
would relieve the Grand Master of a very unpleasant but unavoidable necessity. Upon receipt of my letter the Master caused the
J unior Warden to prefer charges, and the case has been assigned
for trial.

From. a contemplation of the unfortunate and embarrassing,
I gladly d1.ver: you to ~ theme which should inspire us with pride
and establish in our minds the happy conviction that in our ranks
an~ ~ut of ~h em are many men who can step aside from the practica~1t1es of life and subordinate them entirely to the finer and better
things.
Dr. H~rold K. Faber and Dr. Arthur J. Ritter have once again
chosen to ignore the demands upon them and their valuable servii:es, to journey to Covina and make painstaking examination of
and investigation into the condition of our Home and wards. As
the result of their ~ndings, by their sage counsel and advice, they
have made .everything clear before us and crooked things straight.
Indeed, by their profund wisdom, by the certainty of their knowledge as to how their deductions may be practically applied, they
have materially assisted in bringing the institution to such a "point
?f perfection that it may proudly accept the title bestowed upon
1t by the State. Board of Charities, "One of the best of its kind in
the West." And all th is service on their part-all the invaluable
benefits which accrue-are given to us without the hope of fee
or reward, prompted only, as Brother Ritter has so often expressed it to me, by a profound love for our children and in the
interest of the Cause. Surely we owe a debt of gratitude t o these
gentlemen and to Stanford University, whence they come and
I am at this opportunity glad to give expression of the tha~ks of
a grateful fraternity.
0

Masonic Club
With that splendid enthusiasm which marks the young, the
vigorous and the intelligent, when intent upon any proposition
the Masonic students at our state university have thrown them~

414

PROGEEDINQS OF THE

·selves into the problem of a Masonic Club, the advisability~yes,
:nore, necessity-for which was so succinctly brought to our attention last year by Past Grand Master Adams.
Their interest is vital, their determination equal to their ·interest.
At first I wa~ inclined to look askance at the proposition. 1
saw or thought I saw, many obstacles that were well nigh .insurmountable. But as I went deeper into the case and investigated
it more closely, as the need for such. an institntion ·artd the pur~
pose which it must serve became more clearly apparent, I was
converted. Now my interest almost, if not quite, parallels theirs;
At one of the early conferences, participated in by students,
members of the faculty, Grand, Past Grand Officers and others,
it was determined to apJ?oint a committee on plan and scope, which
committee was to have full charge of the efforts to consummate
the purpose. Past Grand Orator, William H. Waste was appointed
chairman.
He has prepared and signed the following report, to which hii>
entire committee subscribes:
"M.".W.".George F. Rodden,
"Grand Master of Masons of California:
"Most Worshipful Sir and Brother:
"At the seventy-first annual communication of the Grand
Lodge, following a suggestion contained in the report of Brot?er ·
Adams, the Grand M'aster, that in furtherance of the project
looking to the erection of a club house somewhere in the immediate vicinity of the campus of the University of Ca'.ifornia,
open not only to all Masons, but to all undergraduates who are
sons and daughters of Masons, the Finance Committee recom. mended, and there was appropriated from the funds of the
Grand Lodge, the sum of $2,000 for the purpose of aiding the
Masonic Club at the University of California,_ upon certain
conditions, to-wit :
.
"l. That an organization satisfactory to the Grand Master
shortld be perfected in which organization the Grand Master
should have at least one representative.
"2. That plans for club purposes and for the 'financing and
·maintenance of the club should be perfectly satisfactory to the
Grand Master ..
"3. That a sum should be raised for club purposes, which,
in the opinion of the Grand Master, would be s?fficient to warrant that the amount appropriated by the Grand Lodge wou'.d
not be frittered away uselessly.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Immediately following the communication of the Grand
Lodge, a meeting was ·held at the home of the Acacia fraternity · in Berkeley, at which there -were present the Grand
Master, several other officers of the Grand Lodge, a member of
the Finance Committee, a number of brethren representing the
students and faculty of the University, .and several members of
various Masonic bodies ,about the bay. After a careful survey
of the situation, and realizing that not only the Grand Lodge,
but every organization of Masonic affiliation in the state, would
anxious to lend support to the .worthy project of providing a
suitable home at which Masonic activities of the student body of
the University might be dicected, it was •deemed .wise to secure
the co-operation of a committe of brethren drawn from the
va11ious bodies for the purpose of formulating plans ,in harmony
with the sipirit, and the letter of the resolution of the Grand
Lodge. With your advice and consent such a committee was
selected, consisting of the fallowing :
"M.\W.".Grand Master, George F. Rodden, Ex-officio and
Honorary Chairman; William H. Waste, Chairman; William A.
Sherman, Daniel B. Richards, William P .Filmer, Francis V.
Keesling, Albert B. Boynton, Ernest C. Reuter, Chas. A. Adams.
"Brother W'illiam B. Herms, University faculty, and
Brother- F. G. Taylor, University Masonic Club, were added
to the committee, and Brother S. M. Shapero was made
Secretary.
"This committee has held a ·number of meetin~s, and has
seriously considered, and from time to time eliminated, various
suggestions for carrying out the enterprise. As a result of
these deliberations, we have certain definite recommendations
which we desire, with your permission, to present to the Gtand
Lodge.
"A survey of the situation has disclosed •the fact that there
are in attendance at the University of California more than 500
Masons; many members of the Eastern Star, and the sons and
daughters from hundreds of Masonic homes throughout the
state. Sixty or more Master Masons are members of the
faculty. Despite this wonderful opening for a sphere of usefulness accorded to the fraternity, Masonic activ1t1es at the
Univer.sity are only inadequately cared for-in fact, almost entirely neglected. The Acacia fraternity, limited to a small membership of Master Masons, and the Acoth sorooity, composed of
less than two score daughters of Master Masons have their
own 15plendid homes, but their circles of influe~ce are limited
to their own me111bership. A Masonic Club, coqi.posi:d of 250
members from the student body and faculty, without any

415

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA

home or fixed meeting place, and with but little opportunity
to function, is bravely striving to nurture and keep alive the
Masonic spirit. We think no words are needed to impress upon
the brethren the importance of the project in hand. No more
important work can be undertaken by Masons of this Grand
Jurisdiction than ministering to the needs of our own young
people at our seats of learning. The necessity for a helpful
influence along the line of the social activities, and in the more
closely related problems of an individual and personal nature
among the students, has long been recognized and acted upon
by various organizations. The Catholic church maintains a
club for students of that faith in Newman Hall, at a very
large expense. The protestant activities among the men on
the campus center in Stiles Hall, under the direction of the
University Y. M. C. A., which organization has rendered material assistance to, and has been extremely kind to the Masonic
Club. Women's activities center in the splendid home recently
built by the Y. W. C. A . These two splendidly equipped institutions annually raise a budget of something like twenty
thousand dollars for the work among the students. In addition
to these centers several protestant churches maintain more or
less effective organizations for work among the various members of their respective denominations. But nothini is being
done along Masonic lines to minister to the hundreds of
young men and women among the student body, who have
a right to look to the order for real service in their moments
of need, and there are ·many such in the life of every young
person on the campus. Your committee does not now refer to
the matter of a -financial need. Although that is all too common
ai:nong deserving students at the University, but to the need
of companionship to the homesick boy, or girl, for the first ·
time away from home, and thrown unprepared into the whirl
of the busy college life ; to the want of a friend to counsel
and advise in periods of doubt; to the lack of a confidant in the
hour of temptation which is almost sure to come ; to the need·
of cheer to the disappointed one; to the promise of hope to the
discouraged. Such situations present opportunity for service to
the individual student. The ten thousand and more students
at the State University are selflgoverned. Their time out of
class room is their own. Their feet may tread where fancy
leads. The social order of things is determined by the action
of the mass. Who of us may not share with the anxious father
and mother of the dear boy or girl at the University, that
anxiety. and longing- to feel and know that all is going well?
Member!! of the faculty who are of our order have told your

committee that when going about the State, they are met everywhe;e by parents, who knowing their connection with the fraternity, seek their comforting assurances. Scores of young
pe~p~e from Masonic homes in the state go almost directly, upon
arnvmg at Berkeley for the first time, to the offices of these
good men for advice and counsel.
"We must have at Berkeley a home, or club house, similar
.
m ~?:ure to tho~e of the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A., with
fac1hties for social entertainment, quiet retirement and relaxation from the whirl of campus activity, and above all, a place
where the homesick, lonesome, and discouraged students may
find the words of consolation or advice he or she so much
craves. A mother matron, a college woman preferred, of suitable y~ars an~ experience, should be made 'Mother' to the big
Masonic family of the campus, and placed in charge of the
'home.'
·
"Your committee has but painted the outline of the picture.
You, yourself, have filled it in a hundred times in your personal
experience throughout the. state in your year as Grand Master.
"We confidently expect the Grand Lodge to further authoriz~ the ste_ps necessary to the fruition of our hope, and then,
with fond expectation of ultimate success, the plans can be laid
before the Lodges and Masons in the Grand Jurisdiction.
"To meet the need, your committee reco.mmends:
"l. T hat the Grand Lodge approve of the erection of a
suitable club house nea r the campus of the University of California for the use of Master Masons and sons and daughters
of Masons, in attendance at that institution.
"2. That the Grand Lodge give its consent to a State-wide
appeal among Masons for the necessary funds to erect and
equip such a building, and that it continue the authority of
the Grand Master regarding the appropriation of the $2,000,
which was made at the seventy-first annual communication of
the Grand Lodge.
"3. That the Grand Lodge approve of the formation of a
corporation, or association, to be known as the Board of Trustees o~ the Masonic Club at the University of California, for
the purpose of holding title to all necessary property, and to
administer the business affairs of the organization, the plan
of such organization to be approved by the Grand Master, and
provided, always, that the Grand Lodge shall have at least
one representative, to be designated by it, on such b~ard.
"Expressing .our personal and individual, as well as collective, appreciation of the magnificent service you have rendered,

417

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in so heartily endorsing the plan upon every possible occasion
during which your words of encourag.ement and advice have
been a source of inspiration to the committee· at . all times: we
beg leave to submit the foregoing report to the consideration
of the Grand Lodge at this time.
"COMMITTEE ON MASONIC CLUB AT . THE
UNVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.
"WILLIAM H. WAstt., Chairman.
"S. M. SHAPJl'RO, S ecretary.
"Dated, San Francisco, Calif.,
October 11, 1921."

As to their ability, there can be no question. Incidentally,
let me add, that my observations brought the conclusion · that
they are of that type whose ambitions will not permit them to ·
rest content with anything less than perfection either in themselves
or their officers. Consequently, a high' degree of excellence in the
ritualistic work is noticeable throughout the jurisdiction.
Last year, in his report, the Grand Master presented to Grand
Lodge a plan which· contemplated a change in our present system
to the end that in place of' an Inspector having immediate .charge
of a district, there should be an officer, with title of District
Deputy Grand Master, whose functions should be the same as
those of the present Inspectors, except so far as the ritual is concerned, and to represent the Grand Master. The Grand Lecturer
then to select and appoint various officers to be known as Deputy
Grand Lecturers ; they to teach and supervise the ritualistic work
and examine officers.
With an idea that the practicability of the plan could be best
determined by experience, I took it upon myself to follow insofar
as possible, within the law, and authorized the Inspectors of a
few districts where the work had. been impeded by the difficulties
of travel or communication, to appoint some few competent men
to supervise the esoteric work, the Inspect or to be general supervisor and check up the results. Invariably the reports have been
most gratifying. Wherever the above plan has been inaugurated,
more men have been enlisted in service, new ambitions have been
stirred, and the ritualistic work ha s improved by reason of the
immediate and ever-present personal supervision.

I do hope, brethren of the Grand Lodge, that you will give
sincere consideration to this matter. in all its details. I do hope
that, with your breadth of vision and generous disposition, you
will be enabled to see, in this project, a big constructive work which
intrigues your attention and justifies your support. The Grand
Master has not permitted the use of any part of the contingent
fund allowed at our last session for the above purpose, for he
felt that the plans had not developed to a point which would
justify him in so doing. It, therefore, remains intact.
Inspectors
When I essay to speak to . you about Inspectors I feel constrained to preface what I have to say by craving you1" kind
indulgence, for I fear that I have become a bit "dotty" on the
subject. And so would you, my brethren, if you had had my
opportunity to be of them and with them; to analyze their
worth as men a nd have disclosed their fervency, their zeal and
their devoted attachment to service in behalf of our institution.
Almost always, wheresoever I have visited about the state,
arrangements for my comfort, convenience and pleasure have been
perfected by the Inspectors, and so completely as to leave nothing
to be desired, nothing with which fault could be found. If the
fates, in the perso n of the Grand Lecturer, decreed that I should
participate in the esoteric work, in the larger centers, there have
I found the entire corps of Inspectors, ready and eager to assist.
Their personal relationships, too, were so delightful. There
was such a wonderful "esprit de corps." No small jealousiesne petulance that one was to occupy a conspicuous and important
office, the while another, perforce, must content himself with a
minor and inconspicuous one. But always a perfect harmony
and good fellowship. Sincere delight in the other fellow's praiseworthy accompllshment-good natured raillery at some unfortunate who had been guilty of a temporary lapse.

419

Private Concerns
The Grand Master has been greatly t roubled throughout the
year by the receipt of inquiries concerning certain business organizati.o ns. Some of these cortcerns, by virtue of the nature of the
business in which they were engaged, were relieved of the restrictions imposed by Section 167 of our Constitution, and co~­
tinued to incorporate the word Mason or Masonic into their business titles ; othe rs, while obedient to the inhibitions of the section, confined their activitiese exclusively to Mason-ic fields. Like
the chameleon, they soon took on the color of t heir surroundings,
and in the minds of many uninformed brethren, were identified as
part of our organization. This was more than unfo rtunate because if any controversies arose (and there were many) those
disputes reflected upon the fraternity.' Again, many ardent supporters of Masonry, in the belief and conviction that by so doing
tl1ey were lending their mite 0£ assistance to the Institution which
they loved, were inspired to purchase stock in or otherwise as-

420

PROCEEvINGS OF THE

sociate themselves with concerns which they believed to be a
part of it. In many instances, the none too puritanical agents,
for obvious reasons, were disinclined to dissuade them from such
belief.
I have had correspondence with men who protested that because they were dealing with Masons representing Masonic concerns, they felt that they were on safe grounds and that nothing
untoward could ensue, consequently have been prompted to forfeit v~luable contracts with other concerns and affiliate with an
organization in which they had such implicit faith. Imagine their
surprise and chagrin when they discovered, finally, that Masonic
sentiment was not in control, but that the cold, hard laws of
business were. These matters having been so frequently brought
to the attention of the Grand Master, took on a serious aspect,
and impelled the issuance of the following circular letter:
"August 31, 1921.
"To all Master Masons in the Jurisdiction:
"Many business concerns of varied kinds are operating
throughout the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California,
Free and Accepted Masons, which adve.r tise themselves as to
be, wholly or in part, conducted for the benefit of Masons or
of Masonry. Many of such concerns solicit patronage exclusively from Masons.
"The Grand Master has been advised that some representatives and solicitors of some of such companies have, for their
own purposes, conveyed to members of the Craft, either by
direct statement or by indirection, the impression that the concern was officially connected with our Grand Jurisdiction. He
has also been informed that many Brethren have been influenced
to associate themselves with such concerns and to purchase their
stock, through a belief that they are thereby advancing the
·
interests of the Fraternity.
"fo. order that the Brethren generally may be informed of
the true status of affairs, the Grand Master deems it to be his
duty to state that these business institutions are purely private
in their nature and that the Grand Lodge of California is not, in
any sense or capacity, connected with any business of any kind
that is being operated for profit.
"Secretaries of Lodges are hereby instructed and directed
to send at least one copy of this notice to each member, and
to post one copy in ·a conspicuous place in the ante-room of
the Lodge.
"(Signed) G!.tORGt F. Ronnt:N, Grand Ma..ster,"

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

421

The above letter did not imply, of course, that the Grand
Lodge chose to act as business guardian over the craft, but I did
feel that the brethren were entitled t o and must have such information as would enable them to det ermine their p rocedure with
understanding.
Clandestine Masonry
During the year the R.'.W.'.Brother Burke was approached
by representatives of a body known as the "American Masonic
Federation" with a view toward reconcilement. It w as definitely
stated that their lodges in California were out of h armony with
their Supreme Grand Lodge, a nd wished t o divorce themselves
from it. The Grand Master of the "Provincial Grand L odge of
California," a Mr. P. J. Wilkie, offered to have resolutio ns introduced into that body, looking toward the desired end, and practically guaranteed their passage, but only upon condit ion that the
Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M., would' take care of the seceding Lodges or, in other words, absorb them into its organization. He called attention to the fact, too, that in the event of
our failure to act promptly in the mater and bring about the desired
coalition, there ' was the terrifying alternative of finding ourselves
face to face with a strong competition that would seriously impair o~r health.
While I was visiting in Los A ngeles during the month pf
June and immediately prior to the Communication of their Provincial Grand Lodge, several attempts were made by representatives
to confer with me. I refused to see them, but sent them word that
there was absolutely nothing about which we could confer. That
if they desired as individuals to affiliate with the Masonic Fraternity there was one way, and only one, by which tha t might be
accomplished: by restoring themselves to proper status, by renunciation of their present allegiance, and then by following the course
prescribed for all others.
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus
We should all be very proud an·d happy over the s plendid administration of the affairs of these most important cogs in our
great machine, and of the wonderful work that is being done by
and through them. The Boards of Relief are indeed all that the
titles signify, and as the agencies through which our ch ief work
is being carried on in the large cities, should have our unqualified
admiration and support.
That is equally true of the Employ ment Bureaus. Their accomplishments have been splendid. While they d o not advance
money for relief, while that is not their function, st ill by finding

423

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

employment for those who are so unfortunate as to be without
it, they have revived hope .and ambition, and, as so frequently
h~ppens, restored self-res)lect. Could anything be finer than that!

matter of rejected petitions. Ordinarily, I am very reluctant to
interfere, by dispensation or other.wise, .w ith the expressed will
of the members of a subordinate lopge. Experience bas demonstrated that while it. fr~quently occurs that a petitioner's rej.ection occasions consternation on account of his general reputation and standipg in the communi.ty, subsequent events have
justified the attitude of the dissatisfied brother, proving that
oftentimes the one ma'n will know something unknown to any ·
of the others:
"I sincerely hope that your suspicion that some of the
brethren are using the ballot box adversely for personal
reasons proves to be unfounded, for' I know of nothing so
unworthy. I find it hard to believe that any one who has
gained admission into a Masonic Lodge-:-who has be1m, for
even a short time, under the influence of Masonic teaching,
could so prostitute the high privilege that is his. It is my
firm conviction that any one who uses the ballot box for the
despicable purpose of wreaking a personal spite or executing a
personal vengeance is wholly unfit for Masonic association
and unworthy to breathe a Masonic atmosphere. And I wUI add
that, if the conditions maintain so long in your lodge as to justify the suspicion that your views are correct, I shall not hesitate to take drastic steps to bring them to a conclusion.
"Relative to the person who carries information to the
profane concerning the activities in the L!J4ge room,-every
effort should be made to discover the culprit and, when found,
he should be brought to trial and summarily punished. There
is no excuse for that sort of thing and, under no circumstance .
should it be condoned.
"Fraternaly and sincerely,
"GtoROll F. RooDJiN, Grand Master."

422

Unfounded Rumors
In our capacity as Masons, we should observe the same laws
and be controlled by the same rules of conduct as govern us as
men. There is a natural predilection in most of us for a nice juicy
bit of scandal, and there is nothing that we like better than to
take the other fellow arourtd the corner, to pour into his ear some
vivid little tale, taking a thance, of cour6e, that it be true.
I feel that one' could not receive a more salutary bit of advice than "Guard well your tongue."
Upon numerous occasions, .good brethren have come to nie
.with statements that sundry business houses held decided antipathies against us and refused to employ any one wearing our
emblems. I have gone to considerable trouble in investigating
these charges, sometimes through dependable agents, sometimes
devoting my own time. Invariably I have found them to be but
vague rumors, having no foundation in fact. I believed it necessary ~o call this matter to your attention, brethren, as serious
injury might be done to reputable people and certainly the dissemination of that which we are not certain is. true reflects unfavorably
upon us.
Unworthy Use of Ballot
The unworthy and unmasonic use of the cube in the ballot
box is so reflective in its nature and so disastrous in results that
I can not forbear speaking of it. Very frequentl y we find that
to be the genesis of great discord in the Lodges. It breeds an
ill which is difficult, by reason of the laws and processes involved;
to cure. Generally easy of diagnosis, it is most difficult to correct.
I have received numerous complaints that the action of some
bro'ther was seriously militating against the harmony and wellbeing of the Lodge. I am constrained to believe that there are
some who, in all honesty, feel that the ballot is a righteous weapon
given into their hands at their affiliation. l}pon that hypothesis
then, I have tried with some success, to alleviate conditions with
letters of which the fqllowing is a fair sample:
"March 29th, 1921.
"W. Sir and Dear Brother:
"I am in reci;ipt of your communication of the 21st inst.,
wherein you recite' the difficulties besetting your Lodge in the

Organizations Demanding Masonic Affiliation as Prerequisite to
Membership
One of the great problems confronting us, and difficulties besetting us, is the mushroom organization which requires Masonic
affiliation as prerequisite to membership. Wrong in its conception,
questionable in its activities, and disastrous in its consequences,
it may not longer be disregarded; it may not be lightly considered,
but must be looked upon with what seriousness the extent of the
menace demands.
All over our broad land they are coming into being. E very
day brings forth a new one. Primarily they are supposedl'y estab-

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

lished for the purpose of providing the recreation and diversion
which the dignity and decorum of our lodgerooms will not permit,
or for the creation of an additional bond which will inspire mutual
assistance-or in plainer language, "boosting one another." They
serve as a lure to the lighter-minded and frequently become the
impulse prompting the type of man to whom that sort of thing
appeals to seek membership with us. Their interjection into
various communities has engendered bitter opposition from those
who give Masonry a high place in their lives, and have developed
schisms which have seriously endangered the harmony of theretofore harmonious bodies. Their work is carried on in a spirit of
buffoonery, and ever and- always, in public print and advertising,
do they pridefully proclaim their relationship to the great Masonic
fraternity.
There can be but one result if that sort of thing is permitted
to continue. The good name of the fraternity is endangered, its
ideals will be shattered. There will be dissension and dissatisfaction and shame where pride should ride high. A wise Master
wrote me some time ago, telling me of a brother, not a member of
his own Lodge, who had requested the privilege of the floor that
he might solicit membership for a club which he was forming.
Permission was denied on the grounds that the Master was not
satisfied that the project had the sanction of the Grand Lodge.
His letter requested my views and had incorporated a copy of
these sections of the by-laws of the proposed organization: Said
by-laws predicated in Section A-Organized to promote a stronger
fraternal relation among Master Masons and their families. Section B- To discuss and take action upon any subjects or matter
that is of vital interest to two or more members of this organization. Membership in the organization is limited to Master Masons in good standing in a Lodge recognized by the Grand Lodge
of ~he State of California, and it appears further that a pledge
of secrecy, both as to the proceedings had within the club and
the names of the members thereof, is required. The penalty of
the obligation is:
"Under a penalty of expulsion from this club and having charges preferred against me in my Blue Lodge."
I acknowledged the Master's letter with the following response:
"W. Sir and Dear Brother:
''I am in receipt of your favor of the 25th instant,
wherein you request my views upon the establishment of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a ' - - - Club.' Personally I shall not hesitate to say
that I am decidedly opposed to the superimposition of any
more of these so-called Masonic bodies or clubs. Experience has demonstrated that even though they are based
upon laudable motives and desires, the memberships become so enraptured with their own particular purposes that
they are swept away by their ·'mission' anci soon lose sight,
entirely, of the parent body. There is perhaps a stronger
appeal in the activities of these social organizations to the
younger and lighter minds of the fraternity than is created by the formality and seriousness of Craft Masonry.
It is but natural that the greater appeal carries the greater
interest. I do maintain that it is impossible to hold dual
allegiance and have both equally strong~ A concentrated
force operating within the body of a more or less chaotic
mass will tventually control or destroy it. In this particular instance, your quotations from their by-laws give
satisfactory evidence that the - - - club is being created
by men who have but slight understanding of Masonry.
Section B, relative to discussing and taking action upon
matters of vital interest to two or more members, while
cleverly composed, does not disguise the underlying meaning. If you will permit .it, I will advert to a reprimand
which I found necessary to administer to a brother who
was speaking of Sciotism and who, inadvertantly, made
the statement that 'they were banded together and took
obligation to boost one another.' I asked him (and this
in a great gathering of Masons) by what right any small
body of Masons gr-0uped themselves together and took
obligation to boost one another, even as against other
members of their own craft. I told him in unmeasured
terms that by so doing they were in violation of their
obligations as Masons.
The reference in the by-laws of the - - - club to the
presentation of charges in Blue Lodge for violation of the
law of the club is so puerile as to indicate b luff or profotmd ignorance. Affairs would have come to a lovely
pass if the Blue Lodge was to be utilized as a club wherewith to whip recalcitrant members of an alien organization
into line. I should be very glad to receive more detailed
information concerning this proposed club and its founders. E vidently they need som e attention.
Unfortunately, it is generally agreed that we cannot
determine for our members with what bodies they should

425

426

427

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ally themselves. But I do believe that if membership in
any organization makes necessary and proclaims, by the
conditions which surround affiliation, a 'violation of Masonic ob1igation, then they should be treated in exactly
the same way and with no greater leniency than any other
viOlator would be treated.

The •Master asked, "Has any brother anything to offer for
the benefit of Masonry in general or of this Lodge of Master Masons
in particular?" The statement is then made, and supported by
the minutes, that after .which, he entertained a motion made by
Brother---.

I think you did wisely and well in refusing the floor
to the brother referred to, and would suggest that, until
more is known concerning the matter, that you persist in
your refusal. For I canno.t think that what he has to
offer is .f or the benefit of Masonry in general or to the ad- ·
vantage of your Lodge in particular."
I regret exceedingly the necessity for adverting to this subject, because I fully realize that many sincere, devoted brethren
have taken membership in such organizations, p4ompted by the
best of motives. I am convinced, too, that the founders of these
various institutions have in many instances only the highest purposes in mind; and could the children of their creation be so controlled as to subserve the purpose intended, all might be well.
But time brings changes. Eventually the original meaning is lost
sight of, and thrnugh their very enthusiasm they detract from
rather than assist.
Decisions
I believe it is true that with the great volume of decisions
already rendered, all of which are available for the use of one
who finds himself in a vexatious position, the necessity for referring to the Grand Master has largely passed. ·That may account
for the comparatively small number which I have to present today, or that happy condition may be attributed to the fact, that,
oftentimes, in plate of rendering an individual finding, the matter
has been referred back and references made to the section which
specifically apply.

The letter of appeal further says: "Immediately following
action on his motion, I made the motion referred to and the
Master, without action by the Lodge, and without discussion, laid
over for one month the motion I made."
The brother, appealing, indicated his purpose and desires in the
following paragraphs:
"I contend that the motion I made was in order, just as
much as the motion made by Brother - - - and the Ma&er
entertained one and laid over the other. And I maintain the
Lodge was not in process of closiqg. That we may have authoritative information for our future guidance, I would most
respectfully ask that .a decision be given stating, whether or
not, under the circumstances stated above, the Lodge was in
process of closing.
"Also if the Master is within his right and his power in
summarily laying over for a month a motion, regularly made
and seconded, without giving the Lodge an opportunity to
voice its opinion in the matter."
The letter in which my decision was rendered is as follows:
"W. Sir and ·near· Brother:
"I have before me your favor of the fifteenth ultimo, requestioning a decision, for future guidance, on your appeal from
a ruling of your Master, such decision to be made in the light
of detailed information as set forth in attested copies of the
minutes of the meeting of your Lodge of November 3d, 1920,
and excerpts from the minutes of the meeting of December 1st,
1920.
.
.

1. The Master of a Lodge refused to entertain ~ resoluti~n
introduced by a. brother. He personally was not in accord with
the purport of the resolution, and believing it to be for the. best
interest of his Lodge to defer its consideration until another
meeting, ruled the motion out of order on the ground that it was
not introduced at a proper time, but during the closing ceremonies.

"In my communication of December 1st, I said, in effect,
that a Master exceeded his attthority in refusing to accept and
submit a proper motion made by a competent member, if
presented at a proper time.
"Reverting to the attested copies; I find under the caption
E.rtracts from the minutes of the stated meeting of December

The brother who ·introduced the resolution appealed to the
Grand Master from the ruling of his Master. He sent with his
appeal a certified copy of the minutes of the meeting from which
he quoted the following:

"The minutes. of the stated meeting of November 3d were
read and after being altered to show that the motion made by
Brother A-was made after the Master had announced: 'Has any
brother anything to offer for the benefit of Masonry in gen-

1; 1920.

428

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

era!, or of this Lodge of Master Masons in particular,' they
were approved.
"The assumption is that your purpose is to have a ruling
which would determine 'a proper time,' or, in other words,
the e:ii:act point at which the process of closing commences.
"It seems very clear to me that the ritual determines that
point definitely.
"The verbiage of the Master in the above quotation, is an
invitation to the brethren to bring whatsoever they wish before
the Lodge.
"The language which follows-'If not, we will proceed to
close' is satisfactory evidence that the process of closing has
not yet commenced.
"Therefore, the Grand Master must find that the exact point
at which the process of closing commences is the address to
the Junior Deacon which follows immediately after. Also, he
must rule that if your motion was presented in response to the
Master's invitation and before the address to the Junior Deacon,
the Master was in error in refusing to accept and present
your motion.
"Sincerely and fraternally yours
" (Signed) Grand Master.
2. Under date of March 21st, I received a request for my
decision relative to the subscription of Lodge funds for stock in a
local hospital, the conditions of which were as follows:
"Dear Brother Rodden :
"A resolution will be presented at the next stated meeting
of Evergreen Lodge No. 259, April 1st, which provides for a.n
appropriation of Lodge funds as a contribution to a new hospital in Riverside to be· known as the Riverside Community
Hospital. This in!titution, a non-profit organization, has taken
over the City Hospital which was a profit-making concern but.
had become inadequate for the needs of the community. Evergreen Lodge held $1,000 worth of stock of the City Hospital,
acquired as a gift from a member of the Lodge. The Lodge
donated this stock to the Community Hospital some months
ago. There is in progress now in Riverside, a "drive" conducted on the same plan as the various drives during war time,
the purpose of which is to raise the necessary money by popular
subscription and donation for the new hospital. The proposal
made to Evergreen Lodge is that it give $1,500 in cash, making
in all a $2,500 contribution. This sum will give, or dedicate,
a room which will exhibit a suitable inscription as to the donor,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

429

etc. It is further agreed that the Lodge may, whenever the
room is not occupied, use same for a Mason, for which use a
half rate only will be collected, and the other half charged
against the entire donation until the sum is balanced.
"Upon ·the question being presented to me as to the pow('r
possessed by the Lodge to use its funds for such purposes, I
stated my belief that the terms of Section 88 and 88c forbid
such a disposition of Lodge funds.
"As what I say will probably not be taken as possessing
any final authority I .have been requested by several of the
officers to ask your opinion in the matter, and I will be very
grateful for your advice.
"With my best esteem and appreciation, I remain.
"Fraternally yours,
HENRY D. FUNCH,Jnspector 68th Dist.
To which I replied:
"March 29th, 1921.
"Dear Brother French :
"Adverting to your favor of the 21st instant, requesting
my opinion as to the right of Evergreen Lodge to contribute
from its funds the sum of $1,500 towards the building of a
Community Hospital in your city-I must answer that the
Lodge can not do so. Section 88 and 88c leave no room for
doubt as to the correctness of this decision. Further, the Lodge
has no right to donate the stock which had come into its possession by deed of gift and must make every effort to have it
returned. That stock had become a part of the treasury of the
institution, and, as such, could not be given away except for
Masonically legal purposes. The brethren seem to forget that
Lodge funds are trust funds and must be so considered and
guarded.
"I fully realize the embarassment and difficulties which
this interpretation will engender and I regret its necessity,
but there is no alternative.
"With kindest personal regards, I am
"Sincerely yours,
"(Signed) Grand Master."
3. Under date of June 24, 19Z1, I received a request for a
ruling in the case of a young man whose parents on the 15th of
the following month would have resided in a certain city the statutory period of six months. The young man was 21 years of age
and unmarried. He was third officer on a Pacific Mail boat. The
question was: "Can said son make application to - - - Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND L6DGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. - - - , F. & A: M., claiming his father's home after the 15th
of July, as his home? If he can, can an application blank be sent
him after the 15th of July for him to fill out that the degrees could
be conferred upon him while he has shore leave?"

was created was defeated thereby, it would seem that a reballot under dispensation would be the simplest and most just
way to cla11ify the situation.
"Sincerely and fraternally yours,
"(Signed) Grand Master."

430;

It appeared from conversations held on the subject that the
young man had never been in the city where the Lodge to which he
would apply is situated. It is generally conceded that the main
reason for demanding a substantial term of residence is that the
brethren might have opportunity to know and judge any wllo
apply. Feeling, therefore, that the main purpose of our law would
be defeated if the petition was accepted, and realizing the conditions of act and intent under which residence may be established
had not in any sense b'een complied with; and quoting Section 95,
which provides that a seafaring man, claiming no residence but .
his ship, is ineligible, I decided that the Lodge could not accept
the petition.
•

4. Under date of September 7, 1921, a letter announcing that
at the stated meeting a petitioner had been balloted upon. One
ballot was taken and a cube app~aring, the candidate was declared
rejected. No second ballot was taken at the time. It was brought
out that the ballot was irregular, and it was moved and seconded
that a reballot be taken. Other members had entered the Lodge
in the interim and there were exceptions taken to that procedure.
It was then moved, seconded and unanimously carried that the
Lodge petition . for a dispensation to reballot at t.he next stated
meeting.
The f61lowing reply was sent:
'.'Dear Sir and Brother:
"I beg to. acknowledge receipt of your favor of the 7th
instant wherein are set forth the breach in Masonic procedure
created by your Master having failed to order a second ballot
when but one cube appeared against the petitioner on the first,
the attitude of the members in determining the procedure ir- •
r'egular and the general complexity of conditions consequent.
"You say, too, that by reason of the fact that some other
members came who had not been present at the time the
ballot was held it was concluded that it was too late to hold
the second ballot and that it. was mo~d, ·seconded and unanimously carried that the Grand Master be petitioned to issue
· a di'spensation to reballot upon a rejected candidate.
"I cannot agree that the advent of new members should
have interferred or prevented the casting of the second ballot,
but, in that it did, and the purpose for which the second ballot

431

I am appreciative ' of the fact that this cannot be construed
as a ruling on law, but rather an expcession of policy, but felt
that some benefit might accrue from its presentation.
5. A rather unusual case was presented. A petition, in perfect form, was received by a Lodge. Immediately prior to the
ballot, one of the brothers who had recommended the petitioner,
requested that his name be withdrawn from the petition. The
questions were as to whether said withdrawal would constitute a
protest and, if some other name could be substituted for the one
withdrawn. The Grand Master held that the name could not be
withdrawn. That the document had become the property of the
Lodge and must not be changed:
It was pointed out, too, that it might be assumed that some
members of the investigating committee had been influenced to
report favorably by reason of the name of the brother who
recommended.
That the withdrawal would be without purpose, as there were
other and more decisive means of registering protest.
6. A controversy. arose between two Lodges over the charge
of jurisdictional invasion, one Lodge charging that the other. had
accepted petnioners (two in number) who properly belonged to
it. The Lodges are located in the mountain. districts and the
determination ·was as to what constituted residence.
It appeared that the Lodge complained of had· accepted into
membership men who throughout the greater part of the year,
lived in the jurisdiction ·of the complairiant Lodge1 but during the
winter months came into the town ·where the second Lodge was
located to be with their families wht> were living there. Evidence
was given to show that both the men accepttd were a nd had
been for years registered voters of communities admittedly within
the jurisdiction of the complaining Lodge. It seemed. to m~ very
clear that these men had established residences in the one community, but as their work stopped in the winter months, they
came to visit their families who were living in a more salubrious
climate. It was· very apparent that it yvas a clear case of invasion.
I, therefore, ordere'd that the fees received be remitted to the complainant Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

432

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Public School Week
If there had been no higher or more worth"y impulse than the
splendid success which attended and magnificent results which
followed Grand Master Adam's inspired Proclamation, setting aside
one week of our year for devoted service in the cause of our
Public Schools, a repetition of that activity would have been jus-

.

~~

But the success of last year's effort was not the only thought
I had in mind when I concluded that there should be another week
set aside during this year.
. I was impelled by the profound conviction that, as worthy
citizens of this great Republic, as children of those who gave their
all th"at it might be firmly established as heirs to this, the greatest
treasure that ever descended to a race of people, it was our duty
and our pride to support it and its institution with all the intelligence which we could command, and all the fervor of g.-atdu,l
souls.
Therefore, I took it upon myself to issue the following:
"September 19, 1921.
"PROCLAMATION.

"Dear Brethren:
"There can be no good Mason who does not love his country and its institutions.
"His love must be of that practical, unselfish variety which
impels service in its behalf to the utmost C?f his capacityyea, even to the point of sacrifice, when necessary.
"The most important element in any country is the men
of that country; and that which develops high character in its
citizenry, wields the greates influence for good and must be
looked upon and accepted as the most valuable among its i~sti­
tµtions.
"We Masons have devoutly believed and held that, fundam~ritally, the greatest contributing force towards the happin~ss
of our people and the well being of our nation is our common
school system of education.
"In our public schools the minds of the generation that
is tq come-the generation that is to assume the burden and
responsibility of the affairs of our country-are shaped and
moulded.
''There our youth is taught the qualifications necessary to
respected maturity; there does it become impregnated with
those ideals which shape its attitude with respect to home and

433

in public; there is developed the spirit of love of God, country and fellow which was first inspired at its mother's knee;
there "does it become imbued with all those graces of heart
and mind so vital to the well being of our glorious America.
"Believing, then, that as Masons and men, we can best
practice our art and demonstrate our citizenship by attesting
our friendship for and belief in and, by all means in our power,
giving encouragement to such an institution;
"We-George Frederick Rodden-Grand Master of Masons
in the jurisdiction of California, have designated and set apart
the first week of October, 1921, as Public Schools' Week and we
request and direct all subordinate Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction to forego their customary work, so far as that may be
lawful, and with heart and tongue join in promoting the welfare of our Public Schook
"G!lORGt F. Ronn!lN, Grand Master."
Visitations
I have always held fast to the idea ·that a Grand Master, like
any other executive, must study the problem which confronts him,
and having determined a course of procedure which would seem
to him most effective, hew close to the line.
With that thought in mind, I have chosen to go among my
brethren as an apostle of the spirit of Masonry.
I have tried with what little power I possess, to point out
to them its beauty, its wonders and its worth, feeling, I hope not
illogically, that if I could but exalt it in their minds and in their
hearts to that high plane where it so rightfully belongs, if I .could
but glorify it and make them happy in its service, there would
lie the greatest accomplishment.
So I have traveled back and forth, hither and yon.
One cannot say how successful he may have been, but I do
know that if their pleasure even approximated the joy that was
mine, then are we fortunate indeed.
I may not impose upon your patience or your time by giving
a detailed recital of the extent of my visits (the account will appear in its proper place in the proceedings), but I would have
you to know that wherever and whenever it has been possible, I
have answered the call.
And what a privilege it has been.
The unive~sal kindness of the brethren, their splendid hospitality, the eager acceptance of what little I had to offer and

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

their charity for my shortcomings, have made an inerasible impression upon me.
Surely if one failed )n response to the nobility of ·such men,
then in truth must his body encircle a heart -of clay and his soul
be muted by thoughts inglorious.
In Appreciation
At the beginning of my term of office, I felt a natural timidity
lest I had undertaken more than I could accomplish. Nor was
that fear dispelled until the reflection came that all around me
were men, capable, conscientious and e.xperienced men, who would
willingly assist whenever I found myself in deep waters.
And all have met that mental prophecy.
Never have I been disappointed;
Witqout reluctance, without hesitation, my lightest wish has
been observed; the most serious commission accepted.
· 1 wish I might attest the depth of my appreciation by calling
them each by name and·givini you a detailed recital of all that
has been done. But that, of course, may not be. I must content
myself by speaking only of the few who have been so closely
with me ,and upon whose time .and talents I have most impos<'•l.
It has been necessary, upon several occasions, for me L\'.l cail
upon the R.'.W.'.Deputy Grand Master, Brother Burke, not on!y
to perform the duties incident to his office, but for other and
alien duties, as well.

I need not tell you, my brethren, you who know him so wel!,
how. thoroughly, how competently, and how willingly he has complied with every request or what splendid .service he has rendered
the fraternity.
Our R.'.W.'.Senior Grand Warden, Brother Sherman, too, by
his sage counsel, his words of encouqi.gement and smiling response to every call, has put you and me under a debt oi everlasting gratitude and the R.'.W.'.Junior Grand Warde!l, Brother
Crites, has been ready at all times to sacrifice his time and ex·
tensive business interests upon the altar of duty. He has traveled
long distances under trying conditions in order that the Grand
Master might be relieved of a responsibility or freed for some
more convc!nient service.
Brothers Adams, Whicher and Baker-words ·cannot tell a ll
they have meant to me.
No lab~r has been too arduous, no sacrifice too great.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

435

Delicate, courteous, with a wlsdom that passed all understanding, with a patience divine, they have been veritable towers
of strength. To these good brethren I extend my profou~d
thanks. I can only say to them that if in future my poor service
will be of any value to them, I am theirs to command.
During the year dispensations have been granted for various
purposes-organization of Lodges, etc. Lodges have been instituted and constituted, halls have been dedicated and cornerstones
laid, all of which will appear in the Grand Secretary's report.
A petition was received for a dispensation to establish a Lodge
in the city of Venice. It was in proper form and strongly supported, but was protested by the nearest Lodge. The fact inspired
an investigation covering several months. I finally concluded
that, under · conditions prevailing, the proposed Lodge would subserve no good purpose and denied the petition.
Which brings me properly to my
Conclusion
Wherein I can say in all truth and in all sincerity that you
have made my year of service as Grand Master, a year of such joy
as has come into the lives of but few men.
You have showered me with riches of your friendship and devotion and have called forth from me a response of fraternal love
that knows no limitations.
I can only feel and with the poet say:
"The riddle _of the world is understood
Only by him who feels that God is Good.
As only he can feel who makes his love
The ladder of his faith, and climbs above
On the rounds of his best instincts."

The Deputy Grand Master appointed the following
Committee:
On Grand Master's Address: Charles G. Lambert, Willard Clark,
Henry E. Verble.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

436

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
· The Grand Treasurer pro tern. presented the annual
report of the Grand Treasurer, as follows:
·
Grand Treasurer'~ Report of cash receipts and disbursements of
General Fund for the year ending July 31, 1921 ·
Receipts.
Balance on hand A1:1gust !st, 1920............................
$ 1,690.98
112,878.32
Grand Secretary ································-·····················-···
535.79
Bank interest ·····························-···································
Bond interest ..................................................................
3,599.00
U. S. Treasury Certificates interest ........................
718.75

$119,422.84
Total receipts ··- ······-································-··········
Disbursements.
Grand Secretary's warrants......- ................................$ 68,723.61
Masonic Temple Association ...................................... 40,000.00 108,723.61
$ 10,699.23
Cash balance ····················-·····-··················-····-···
Cash o'n Hand and in Banks.
San Francisco Savings· and Loan Society............$
65.21
Crocker National Bank .............................................. 5,<XXHiO
Union Trust Company ................................................ 1,387.72
10,699.23
Cash on hand (to be deposited) ................................ 4,246.30
Assets.
Cash on hand and in banks...:..................................
$ 10,699.23
Seven 6% Blue Lakes Water Company (par
value $7,000) ·············:.................., ...............:.........$ 7,700.00
Six 4% Southern Pacific Railroad (par value
$6 000) .....~................................................. ................ 5,580.00
Nine 5% California Gas & Electric Co. (par
value $9,000.00) ...................................................... 8,550.00
Eight 5% Pacific Telegraph & T el. Co. (par
value $8 000) .......................................................... 8,000.00
Two 5% L;s Angeles Gas & Electric Co. (par
value $2,000) ............................................,............. 1,860.00
4y,( % First Liberty Loan converted........................ 1,000.00
4y,( % Second Liberty Loan converted.................... 10,500.00
300.00
4y,( % Third Liberty Loan ..........................................
4y,( % Fourth Liberty L?a~ ........................................ ;;·~·~
513,490.00
Masonic Temple Association ....................................
• ·
1

4

Total assets

0000 0•00 00000000 00 00000o000 0000000000000oOOH00000000000000 • 0000

$524,189.23
P. FILMl!R,
Grand T reasurer.

WILLIAM

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

437

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present herewith my fourteenth annual report of
the transactions of the Grand Secretary's office for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1,921, together with a detailed account of aU moneys received
and disbursed within the year. I also append an account of receipts
since the close of the fiscal year to and including October, 1921, and
all unfinished business of Grand Lodge:
Masonic Homes Revenues.
1. The practical working of the provisions of Section 41 of the
Constitution, providing for a substantial contribution for the benefit of
the Masonic Homes from all petitioners for the degrees 1 is now assured;
and I am proud to caU attention to the fact that for the year just ended,
the members of our Lodges have actuaUy saved for the Lodge treasuries
more than $54,000 which, had it not been for the present provision,
would necessarily have been paid by the members through their Lodges
for the support of the Homes. This saving to members was accomplished by the reduction last fall of the per capita tax from one doUar
to thirty-five cents. So far as I a~ advised, no petitioner lias objected
to paying twenty doUars for the benefit of the Homes; on the contrary,
reports are that petitioners are proud to be participants in the maintenance of these visible monuments to relief, and to be, in fact and in
deed, serviceable to their less fortunate feUows, their widows and
orphans.

It is to be noted that a few Lodges do not yet understand that the
twenty-doUar contribution from petitioner s is no part of Lodge funds
and no part of the fee fixed for the degrees; and it is hoped that
Masters will fuUy inform themselves with respect to this matter and
instruct their Secretaries accordingly. The special receipt to be delivered to initiates immediately after receiving the first degree is overlooked in some Lodges, and Inspectors are desired to report all such
delinquencies to the Masters.
Membership.
2. At tqe close of our last Annual Communication there were four
hundred chartered Lodges on our registry, with a membership of
76,873. The gain for the year just closed is less than the previous year,
being 8,315 net. The membership as of July 31, plus the newly-formed
Lodges, is now 85,181.
New Lodges.
3. Twenty new Lodges have been formed in the year, as foUows:
Lebanon Lodge, San Francisco. Dispensation issued October 12,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1920. George Thomas Black, Master ; Harry William Reis, Senior
Warden; Benjamin Harry R. Roberts, Junior Warden; and Siegfried
Graf, Milton Meyer, Samuel Hodes, Herbert B. Worden, Leo Leiser,
Sydney Zobel, Bernard B. Stimmel, Casper Keller Goodwin, Myer C.
Rubin, Naftaly Mosk, Maurice Randell, Joseph !J osiah Liberman,
Walter Chatfield, A1len Jonah Cadwallader, Raymond Lee Otis and
Henry Edw. Larsen.

Roosevelt Lodge, San Francisco. Dispensation issued February 3,
1921. Emil D. Zecher, Master; Edwin B. Heiden, Senior Warden;
Walter Neal Jackson, Junior Warden; and P aul Silvey, F r ank Henry
Pellegrini, Albert Lawrence Battaglia, Emil Camozzi, William · P.
Valsangiacomo, Adolph B. Foppiano, Laurent Lamanet, Dario L.
Perrone, Attilio Sanguinetti, David E. Bacigalupi, Joseph J. Cuneo,
Chauncey McGovern, Pietro Garel!i, Eugene J. Del Mont e, Hugo
Paladini, W. C. Zecher, Herbert Felix Raynaud, Ernest William
Melville and John William Phine.

438

Riverdale Lodge, Riverdale, Fresno county. Dispensation issued
November 24, 1920. Edward Herbert Byron, Master; Frank D. Hamilton, Senior Warden; Jacob Frederick Rife, Junior Warden; and
James Lloyd Williams, James S. Williams, James Ambrose Sample,
George Montgomery, Christian Ruchti, Chris Martin Momson, William
D. Hench, Norris James Brow~ and Earl B. Brown.
Dispensation issued
Fremont Lodge, Oakland (Fruitvale).
December 1, 1920. James Spencer Sullivan, Master; Chester Culwell
Morris, Senior Warden; Henry Howard Caldwell, Junior Warden; and
Hiram Eugene Miller, Jack Elton Learner, Vernon Roy Sullivan,
Edmond Bernard Stengel, Alfred Hiram White, Hubert E. Hood,
Seward Morton Estabrook, Frank Edward Pride, Fred Gottfried
Bernier, Roy Gustav. Lucks, George Louis Rinke, Gustav Heinrich
Lucks, Fred F. Morse, Granville Eugene Graham, Archie B. Roy,
Creighton Budd Deuble, Edward Egeland, Charles S. Stout, George
Henry Johannsen, Theodore Henry Young, Alfred Nielsen and Joseph
Ezra Geller.
Stockton Lodge, Stockton. Dispensation issued January 18, 1921.
Lester Orville Wisler, Master; Joseph Sterling Cochran, Senior Warden;
Daniel Alexander Hathaway, Junior Warden; and Robert Jam es LeClert, Arthur Clifford Potter, John Ferguson Blinn, Bennington R.
McGee, Samuel Morris Lerner, John William Pyle, Irvin Miller Smith,
George' Delmar Murphy, Oliver Perry Wisler, Gustaf Peter Hornberg,
Samuel James Ritchie,_ Joseph Mi:es McCracken, Roy Soper Peck,
George Riceborough Gage, Herbert Clay Baird and Henry James F . .
Berkeley.
Capital City Lodge, Sacramento. Dispensation issued January 29,
1921. Samuel Jenkins Wells, Master; Mark Horace Raynsford, Senior
Warden; Oliver Albert Hartwell, Junior Warden; and George William
Holmes, James Chester Sawyer, George Sumner Bolles, Albert P .
Johnson, Lyman Harvey Slater, George Kendrick Edwards, Wil:iam
M. Ballantyne, George Marshall Pottle, Charles Paul Brocar, William
Carey Whitaker, Alexander Orr, Harry G. Arend, John Werden Biggs,
George Henry Richards, Pitt Bartlett Rackliffe, George Herbert Bower,
Charles G.-Slater, Harry E. Salt, Rob Roy Wortz, John Westley White,
J. Howard Hall and August Ferd Wallis.

439

Westwood Lodge, Westwood, Lassen county. Dispensation issued
March 22, 1921. Joseph Hunter, Master; Charles Brown, Senior
Warden; Char!es Driscoll, Junior Warden; and Edward Everett
Vicary, Fred Jay n"avis, Louis Phillipe McKinley, Ferdinand William
Koerner, John Ho!eman Bailey, Frank Raymond Miller, Neil McN evin,
James Henry M. Rutledge, Robert Gordon Green, Emery Joseph Wolte,
Willis Norman Lindersmith, Elmer Mon roe Wolfe, Charles Christian
Watkins, Oliver Torgerson, Harry F. Moffat, Merrill W. Hollingsworth, Charley Lester Bonney and J ames G. Small.
Harbor Lodge, Richmond, Contra Costa county. Dispensation
issued March 26, 1921. Charles Wilson Duncan, Master ; Ludweig M.
Johnson, Senior Warden ; Joseph Junior Burdon, Junior Warden ; and
William W. Fraser, Thomas Alexander Boyer, Carl R. Alexander,
Amos Burton Hinkley, Martin Charles Hencken, Harry Marcus;
Howard Thomas Roe, Henr.r Westhofer, Albert Liµc oln Paulsen,
James Thomas Macintosh, J ames Alexander Macintosh, Frank Carlton
Stambach, Winfield Wayne Giberson, William Edward Hansen, Joseph
Gamble Burns, William Elmer ,Peterson, Clinton S. Ford, Joseph
Cleaveland Sanford, J ames A. McCann, F rancis Charles Gilbert, Pryce
Roberts and Thomas Shelby Walker.
Point Lodge, Richmond, Contra Costa county. Dispensation issued
March 31, 1921. Charles Johan Peterson, Master; Chester Ariel Northway, Senior Warden; Louis Fall William Moore, Junior Wa rden ;
and Homer Grant Stidham, Clarence Eugene Allen, Palmer ston C.
Campbell, David E. Huntsinger, Alexander Elsie, Fred Dayton Clinger,
Benjamin Franklin Dustheiner, Fred W. Hess, Thomas Henry Finley,
William Seaton, Frederick T. Garloff, Frank Valentine Throne, Charles
Edward Niedecker, Abraham Sinclair H itch, Roy Edwin McFarland,
Victor E. Green, Edward James Garrard, Charles H. Faler, Edward
Frank Meurer, Fred B. Hicks, Charles Myron Hunt and George
Washington Topping.
Seaside Lodge, Long Beach. Dispensation issued May 23, 1921.
Vincent Lorimer, Master; Clyde Everett Johnson, Senior Warden;

440

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

]. Lynn Avery, Junior Warden; and Oscar William Dreyer, Fred
Raymond Berbower, Frank Arthur Kindig, Errol William Hawkins,
Frank William Baker, Paul C. Henne!, William Walter Lesh, Melvin
Robert Berbower, William P. Widdington, Jack C. Ivy, Earl E. Drown,
Ellis Blaine Porter, William John Courtiour, Albert Edward Foreman,
Carl Herbert Powell, Samuel James Miller, Arnold George Henry
Bode, Earl C. Hoffman and Lawson 0. Shepard.

Elroy Perkins, Peter Enrietti, Clarence Edward Fuelling, Norman
Day. Ingham, James Ambrose Sample, William James Martland, Fred
Lows Keller and Carroll Fay Covington.

Silver Cord Lodge, Santa Ana, Orange county. Dispensation
issued June 10, 1921. Robert Melville Price, Master; William Walter
Jones, Senior Warden; Asa Hoffman, Junior Warden; and Donald
Marten L. Loveridge, Phillip S. J. Lucas, John Lincoln Wheeler,
Alfred Alexander Hardin, Wilber E. Haines, Walter A. Willey, Edward
C. Cornett, Roy C. Peterson, James E. Paul, Charles H. McCausland.
Harry M. Baade, Garland c. Ross, Ward .H. Sutton, George H. Platt,
Leland Roswell Crawford, Raymond W. Townsend, Sam Jernigan,
Alexander Brownbridge, Robert L. Brown, Fred M. Medbery, David
E. Huff and Frank G. Freeman.
Mount Olive Lodge, Los Angeles. Dispensation issued June 18,
1921. William Henry Whisler, Master; Ernest Elias Kirk, Senior
Warden; Wenford LeRoy Fuller, Junior Warden; and Charles Roy
Bollen, Edward Wells Rote, Albert Harry McElroy, Philip August
Gastrock, Fred Alvin Kelsey, Taylor Edwin Duncan, William Andrew
Crinley, Samuel Beattie Hill, Paul Clayton Washburn, Lewis Scott
Redfern, John Henry Wallace, Frank Dean Pendleton, Harry Allen
Gordon, · Thomas Kane Little, James Korn, William H. Burkhalter,
William Archie Rice, Claud Henry Constable, Kenneth N. Bright and
Pearl Madison Claiborne.
El Segundo Lodge, El Segundo, Los Angeles county. Dispensation
issued June 29, 1921. Frank Darwin Bryant, Master; Earl Allau
Gregory, Senior Warden ; George Love, Junior Warden ; and Eric
Ephraim Anderson, Ra'.ph Morris Converse, George Wilmer Draggoo,
Jesse Samuel Foster, Ferdinand F. M. Hoffman, James Elbert Hauck,
Joseph Franklin Kessels, Forrest Howard Lee, Charles Samuel
Luscombe, John Franklin Martin, Paul Bryan Moore, Frank Morrison,
Daniel Donald McKenzie, Ernest Henry Peterson, Harry Mathew
Pullman, John Leroy Seals, Hugh Everett Ritch, Edwin Shaw, Arthur
Robert Tuck, Thomas George Tuck, William Frederick Walker and
George Everett Young.
Joppa Lodge, San Joaquin, Fresno county. Dispensation issued
June 29, 1921. William Ward Goodrich, Master; Roy Warren Plannette, Senior Warden; Rufus Hugh Allen, Junior w ·a rden; and Frank
Stevenson Snyder:, Floyd Lester Teale, William Harlow Tuttle, Marton

441

Benjamin ~ranklin .Lodg:, Los Ange!es. Dispensation issued June
29, .1921. Lollis Francis· ~1ght, Master; George William Marshall,
S:n10r Wa1:den; George Herman Naegele, Junior Warden; and Samuel
Dickey A~nch, Rudolph Becker, Henry M. Binford, Leo Irvin Boelter
Frank H;lton Dickinson, William Clarence Draper, James Forsyth'.
George Simons Greene, Alva Myron J ohnson, Charles Grady Kirksey
Roy Har,ris Milligan, Arthur Obert Nelson, Harold Elmer Oefelein'.
Leo J. 0 Flaherty, Allyn Burton Rice, Thomas Tyler Robinson, James
Bertram Ruthe, C~ai:les A. Stewart, Charles S. Tolley, 'Evans Craig
Varner, Lemuel Virgil Wadsworth and Archibald C. W ay.
.
Cupertino Lodge, Cupertino, Santa Clara county. Dispensation
issued July 28,_ 1921. Irvin Asa Ball, Master; John Leonard, Senior
W.arden; Archibald Wilson, Junior Warden; and Rheimer Meyerholz,
M1_c~ael J. Kochman, Max Harvey Merriman, Thomas Donald Reese,
Wilham John Schmidt, Harold Carl Jepsen, John Morris Chrisman
Cl_aude Jones Parrish; James Williamson Comstock, Harold Wheele;
Dixon, Clarence Lester Rich, Ernie! Theodore Nielson Julius U
Miner, Jacob Kristinich, Robert Alexander McArthur, He;man Joseph
Baumgartner, Tarrant Putnam, William G. Thurston, Horatio Frank
Coykendal~ Charles Henry Vortmann, James Kingsbury and Glenrt
Loring Allen.
·
.
Sunnyvale Lodge, Sunnyvale, Santa Clara courtty. Dispensation
1ssu~d August 1, 1921. Robert Rankin, Master; George E. Hartwell,
Sen10r ~r:den; Anton Schmitz, Junior Warden; and William W.
McLaughlin, Arthur K. Anthony, Charles R. Fuller, Charles E. Wetterstrom, Carl Adolph Lohf, Thomas F. Crosby, GeNge Duernberger,
Cha~l~s R. Bocks, Edwin A. Lodge, HCJmer J. Langdon, A. N.
Chnsttansen, Hugh John Hughes, John Lee Schun:acher, Jay J.
Schu~acher,_ Everett D. DeWitt, Leo H. Vishoot, Charles Clifton
Spalding, Nicholas Nielsen, Willard Joseph Coates, Daniel R. Ackley,
Clarence H . Forehand and Lemuel C. Ladd.
Palms Lodge, Palms, Los Angeles. Dispensation issued August
24, 1921. Jam es Garvey, Master; Earl William Jonas, Senior W arden :
Charles J?seph Goodman, Junior Warden; and Robert A. King, Leonard
W. McBrid~, Abraham L. King, J ames William Simmons, Oscar Roland
En.gl_er, Irvm C. Butler, Shirley L. King, Edw. S. Hackler, Fred Haver,
Wilham S. Morten.sen, Fred Jessie Finch, Richard F. Johnson, Horace
M. Garvey, John H . French, George W. Schil'. ing, William N. McCombe,
Merlin A. Bryant and John Lane.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cahuenga Lodge, Hollywood, Los Angeles. Dispensation issued
August 25, 1921. Lyle W. Rucker, Master ; William W . Wright,
Senior Warden; Andrew W . McAllister, Junior Warden i· and Carl
Arthur Opperman, Everett R. James, John William Boyle, Clifford
James Mendenhall, Walter S. Dunn, Edwin J. Moffitt, Harry R.
Fosbinder, J. Marshall Philips, Kenneth M. Whitham, Arthu.r J.
Rupp, O. H . Skeen, Isaac M. Burnside, Burt Cecil Hunnicutt, Dana
Harold Bennett, William Davis Garwood, Samuel J. Skevington, Albert
Hoffman Overacker, Lyle A. Burgess, Fred M. Seibly, Bert Edson
Dayton, George A. Green and James V. Tonkin.

Courtesy Work

442

Argonne Lodge, San Francisco. Dispensation issued Octobe1 J,
1921. Laurence Chester Thompson, Master; Henry George Mathewson,
Senior Warden; Frank Adolphus Fox, Junior Warden; and Geo~ge
Wesley Middleton Jr., Prentice Oscar Courtemanche, James Lormg
Pixley Frederick Farrel Bebergall, Harry Edward Boies, John Reseigh,
Roy Theodore Mosher, Edgar Henry Howell, Jay Marion Read, Ernest
Everett Wilson, Frank William Hook, Leo Fast, Charles Bryan Ahl,
Hartwell Henderson Linney, Philip Carl Katz, Harold Otto von det
Lieth Edward Joseph Mitchell, Edward J . Jose, John Chilton Williams,
Russ~ll Butler Tripp, John Channing and Chester Daniel Siprelle.
Statement of Work
4. Following is a comparative statement of work done in
1918, 1919, and 1920:
1921
1920
1919
1918
20
20
2
Lodges organized................................................
4
9,200
10,507
6,380
Initiations reported ---····················-'············-r··· 4,890
Passed to degree of Fellow Craft.................. 4,677 5,604 '9,895 8,908
Raised to degree of Master Mason................ 4,551 5,248 9,320 8,831
957 1,636 1,324
Affiliated .............................................................. 930
303
323
238
Reinstated ............................................................ 245
776 1,378 1,362
Withdrawn ...........•..,........................................... 725
386
460
550
Suspended for non-payment of dues............ (ff)
13
19
21
Suspended or expelled for cause ................
12
923
949
1,218
Deaths reported ................................................ 810
Number of members July 31..........................63,986 67,890 76,873 85,181
639
672
Exempted from paying dues ............................ 3,690 2,7&5
Apparent net increase for the year ................ 3,593 3,904 8,973 8,308
Duplicate Charter Issued

5. The hall of Imperial Lodge No. 390 was destroyed by fire on
the night of September 19, 1921, nearly all furnishings and books and
charter being lost. A duplicate charter was issued September 22, a~
of the original date.

443

6. T he matter of conferring degrees by courtesy is still a problem
that is difficult of proper solution. Our Lodges, like Lodges in all
English-speaking jurisdictions, are · congested with degree work, and
while they delight in extending favors to our sister jurisdictions, yet
fr_equently requests come at times when it is impossible to grant prompt
response. Our Lodges have requested one hundred and ninety-three
degrees to be conferred by Lodges of other jurisdictions in the year
past, and Lodges of other jurisdictions have been accorded the favor
of work to the number of twelve hundred and eighty"six degrees,
without fee. Ordinarily all this work would have been a pleasure-as
it is always a pleasure for California Lodges to grant favors to their
Eastern brethren-but it so happens that ninety per cent of all requests
are for degree work to be conferred at San Francisco, Los Angeles,
San Diego, San Pedro and Vallejo. I commend this subject to your
serious consideration.
Constitution and Ceremonies

7. Nearly ten thousand copies of the Constitution and Ceremonies
were sold last yea r for distribution, as required by law, to those who
had received t1'e tliird degree. The edition last printed will be
exhausted before the end of October, and I desire definite inst ructions
with respect to the contents to be included in the next edition. I
respectfully suggest, and recommend, that all Regulations be omitted
therefrom. T he Constitution (section 228) defines a Regulation to be
any resolution, edict, law or ordinance of any kind, other than the
Constitution, which Grand Lodge may adopt. I further recommend
that all Regulations be r eferred to a committee for careful scrutiny
and revision if need be; that such committee be directed to report to
the Grand Master within six months, and that upon the approval of
the report by the Grand Master and the Chairman of the Committee
on Jurisprudence, the Regulations be printed and sold to members
of the Craft at a price to be fixed by the Committee on Accounts.
Amendments to By-Laws
8. The following proposed amendments to the by-laws of Lodges
.
have been approved by the Grand Master:·
Establishing by-laws: Galt Lodge No. 267.
Increasing fees for the degrees: San J ose No. 10, to $80; Temple
N o. 14, to $40; Golden Gate No. 30, to $100; San Diego No. 35, to $80;
Los Angeles No. 42, to $80; Henry Clay No. 95, to $60 ; Herman.n
N o. 127, to $100; Crockett No. 139, to $105; Marin No. 191, to $80;
King Solomon's No. 260, to $80; Silver Gate No. 296, to $80; Liberty

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 299, to $50; Long Beach . No. 327, to $80; Vallee de France No.
329, to $55; Fullerton No. 339, to $105; Starr King No. 344, to $100;
Palestine No. 351, to $80; Mill Valley No. 356, to $80; Golden State
No. 358, to $80; Las Palmas No. 366, to $80; Amity No. 370, to $100;
Jewel No. 374, to $80; Richmond No. 375, to $100; Coalinga No. 387,
to $100; Balder No. 393, to $80; University No. 394, to $100; Rising
Light No. 397, to $100; Charter Rock No. 410, to $80; Blackmer No.
442, to $80; Wilshire No. 445, to $150; Golden West No. 455, to $80;
Henry S. Orme No. 458, to $80; Lincoln No. 470, to $80; Victory No.
474, to $80; Vallejo No. 487, to $80.
Increasing dues: Sotoyome No. 123, to $12; Azusa No. 305, to
$12; Dinuba No. 385, to $12; Mount Oso No. 460, to $12.
Increasing fee for affiliation: Alamo No. 122, to $5; Oakland
No. 188, to $30, East Gate No. 290, to $25 ; Starr King No. 344,
indeterminate; Amity No. 370, to $10; J ewe! No. 374, to $20; Paul
Revere No. 462, to $25.
Decreasing fees for degrees: Capital City U. D., to $75.
Decreasing dues : West Lake No. 392, to $9.
Decreasing· fee for affiliation : San Diego No. 35, to no fee ;
Morgan Hill No. 463, to $1.
Changing time of stated meetings : · San Diego No. 35, Calaveras
No. 78; Yolo No. 81, Rose's Bar No. 89, Clay No. 101, Alamo No. 122,
Valley No. 135, Abell No. 146, Keystone No. 161, Hope No. 234, Laurel
No. 245, Penrhyn No. 258, Anchor No. 273, Consuelo No. 325, Oxnard
No. 341, Charity No. 362, South Pasadena No. 367, Huntington Beach
No. 380, Victory No. 474, Thousand Oaks No. 478, Clarence F. S"mith
No. 482, Vallejo No. 487, East Bay No. 489, Woodstock No. 491,
Garvanza ' No. 492, Acorn No. 494.

To receive and act upon petitions from members . of the army and
navy who did not have the required residential qualifications: Hawaiian
No. 21, Silver Gate No. 296, San Diego ·No. 35, Monrovia No. 308,
Coronado No. 441, Blackmer No. 44?.

444

Life Memberships
9. The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life
memberships, as follows: Washington No. 20, $112.50; South San
Francisco No. 212, $150; Speranza Italian a No. 219, $200; East. Gate
No. 290, $150; Hollenbeck No. 319, $150; Palestine No. 351, $150;
Argonaut No. 461, $150; Alta Vista No. 464, $150; America No. 475,
$120; Clarence F. Smith No. 482, $112.50; Acorn No. 494, $150;
Stockton U. D., twelve and half times yearly dues.
Dispensations Issued
10. By order of the Grand Master, special dispensations for
various purposes have been issued, as follows:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by by-laws: Rose's
Bar No. 89, Mendocino No. 179, Selma No. 277, Tehachapi No. 313,
Francis Drake No. 376, Clovis No, 417, Lancaster No. 437,

445

To reballot upon candidates rejected within twelve months:
La Parfaite Union No. 17, Occidental No. 22, San Diego No. 35,
Sacramento No. 40, Santa Rosa No. 57, Concord No. 117, Hermann
No. 127, Pacific 'No. 136, Pentalpha No. 202, South San Francisco No.
212, Doric No. 216, Anchor No. 273, South Gate No. 296, West Gate
No. 335, Fullerton No. 339, Palo Alto No. 346, Presidio No. 354,
Veteran No. 373, Moneta No. 405, Clovis No. 417, Midway No. 426,
Montebello No. 451, Crocker No. 454, Ramona No. 457, Rockridge No.
468, Yorba Linda No. 469, Vallejo No. 487, Woodstock No. 491,
Roosevelt U. D.

Trial Records
11. The following transcripts of trial records have been received
and delivered to the chairman of the Committee on Grievances:
No. 175-Member of Jewel Lodge No. 374, suspended by Doric
Lodge No. 216. Petition for restoration.
No. 246-Member Humboldt No. 79, suspended by Arcata No.
106. Petition for restoration. .
No. 255-Member of Coronado Lodge No. 441, expelled by Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Petition for restoration.
No. 271-Retrial. Suspended by Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
Appeal by accuser.
· No. 280-Member Blackmer Lodge No. 442, suspended by San
Diego Lodge.
No. 283-Expel!ed by Alcatraz Lodge No. 244.
No. 284-Suspended by San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
No. 285-Expelled by Azusa Lodge No. 305. Appeal by accused.
No. ~Member of Hermes Lodges No. 185, Washington, suspended by Coalinga Lodge No. 387.
No. 287-Expelled by Balder Lodge No. 393.
No. 288--Expelled by Burlingame Lodge No. 400.
No. 289-A Fe!Jow Craft, expelled by Clarence F. Smith Lodge
No. 482.
No. 290--Expelled by San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.
No. 291-A Fellow Craft, expelled by San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.
No. 292-Member of Durand Lodge No. J44, Michigan, acquitted
by Wilshire Lodge No. 445. Appeal by accuser.
No. 293-Expelled by Yosemite Lodge No. 99.

446

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Special Communications of Grand Lodge
12. Grand Lodge was conven~d in special commumcatlon by
order of the Grand Master for the purpose and at the times and
places following :
October 22, 1920, R. W. Arthur S. Crites, Junior Grand Warden,
convened Grand Lodge and laid the corner stone of the high school
at Hanford.
October 30, 1920, R. W. Samuel E. Burke, Deputy Grand Master,
convened Grand Lodge and laid the corner stone of the Union high
school at Moorpark.
November 4, 1920, R. \V. Arthur S. Crites convened Grand Lodge
at Turlock and laid the corner stone of the new Masonic hall at that
city.
February 17, 1921, R. W. Arthur S. Crites dedicated the new
Masonic hall at Fellows.
April 30, 1921, the Grand Master convened Grand Lodge and laid
the corner stone of the Grammar school at Hollister.
May 2, 1921, the Grand Master convened Grand Lodge at Atascadero
and laid the corner stone of the Union high school at that place.
May 4, 1921, the Grand Master convened Grand Lodge at Corcoran
and laid the corner stone of the new high school.
May 13, the Grand Master convened Grand Lodge at the city of
San J ose and conducted the solemn funeral ritualistic services over
the mortal remains of our Grand Bible Bearer, John P. Jarman.
May 14, 1921, R. W. Samuel E. Burke convened Grand Lodge at
Ho'.lywood and laid the corner stone of the new Masonic hall at that
city.
June 3, 1921, the Grand Master convened Grand Lodge at Lincoln
and laid the corner stone of the Civic Auditorium at that city.
June 4, 1921, the Grand Master convened Grand Lodge at .Yuba
City and laid the corner stone of the Live Oak High school near
that city.
August 6, 1921, the Grand Master convened. Grand Lodge and
laid the corner stone of the new Masonic hall at that city.
September 7, 1921, the Grand Mastei; convened Grand Lodge at
Sacramento and laid the corner stone of the new building for the
ChJmber of Commerce.
September 27, 1921, the Grand Master convened Grand Lodge at
Turlock and with solemn ceremony dedicated the new Masonic hall
at that city.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

447

Unfinished Business
13. Masonic Service Association-question of joining. (Proceedings 1920, page 286.)
Return of fees of petitioners who die prior to receiving degrees.
(Pages 14, 22, 288.)
District Deputy Grand Masters-direction to Jurisprudence Committee to submit amendments to the Constitution creating the office of
District Deputy Grand Master and abolishing the office of Inspector.
(Pages 289-292, 307.)
·
Recognition of foreign jurisdictions-speciai committee of investigation to report thereon. (Page 305.)
· Status of daughters of .Masons. (Page 275.)
Cash Receipts-General Fund
14. The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge and
the Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1921:
Dues from Lodges·:
July 31, 1920, balance with Grand Treasurer..........
$ 1,690.98
General Funds ......................~ ........:........................$ 86,949.25
Representative Fund ............................................ 11,263.65
98,212~
Charter fees ....................................................................
1,Q00.00
1,425.00
Dispensations to form new Lodges..........................
(i6().00
Dispensation for various purposes............................
Premiums collected on bonds of Secretaries and
Treasurers ................................................................
931.80
Refund from Kansas, relief ........................................
40.00
Refund from Vermont, relief ....................................
479.60
Refund from .Maine, relief ........................................
100.00
68.00
Refund from New Zealand, relief.. ..........................
100.00
Refund from W. C. B., relief ....................................
Sales of printed matter during year..........................
9,861.02
7,100.25
...
329.80
Receipts for .dues ..................................................
723.20
533.32
Blanks ........................................................................
458.60
Small diplomas ......................................................
464.00
Large diplomas ......................................................
99.90
Receipt holders ......................................................
81.45
Card Cases and Lists of Regular Lodges ........
47.50
Installations Services and Proceedings ............
Funeral Services and bound volumes Pro23.00
ceedings ............................................................

~o0n:i~i~~:io.~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.::::::::::::::::::::::$

Total receipts, including balance ..............................

$114,569.30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total receipts, including balance, brot. for .............
$114,569.30
Interest on bonds collected by Grand Treasurer....
4,853.54
On deposits with banks......................................$
535.79
Seven Blue Lakes Water Co. bonds .......- .......
420.00
Six So. Pacific 4% refunding bonds................
240.00
Nine Cal. Gas and Elec. 5% bonds..................
450.00
Eight Tel. and Tel. 5% bonds............................
400.00
Two Los Angeles Gas and Elec. 5% bonds....
100.00
U. S. Govt. bonds ($46,800.00) .......................... 1,989.00
U. S. Treasury notes ............................................
718.75

Emergency Relief Fund

448

Sale of U. S. Treasury !}Otes.......................,..........,_.'

$119,422.84
25,000.00

Total receipts General Fund, from all sources
War.rants drawn during the year, Nos. 1 to 299....

$144,422.84
133,723.61

Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1921..

$ 10,699.23

Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes

Total collections for account Homes......................................$325.900.00
*Of the $211,(J()().00 collected during the year from initiates, $133,980.00 was . paid in three quarterly installments, November, February
and May, 1921, and should be credited to the annual payments accrued
July 31. The fourth quarterly payments, collected after August 1, 1921,
to date, amount to $59,780, which indicates the sum of $193,760 collected
from initiates for the year July 31, 1920, to July _31, 1921.
Cash Receipts August 1, 1921, to October 10, 1921
Horne Maintenance Fu11d............1....·- -··········-····--······---···-$ 29,567.00
Home Building Fund ..........................---·--···-·----·---····-- 42,271 .00
$20 dues from Initiates.·-·--···-·······----········-·- ··-·····--···· 60,200.00
Total collections for the Homes......................................$132,038.00
Dues from Lodges, General Fund.... _..............................................$ 90,780.15
Dues from Lodges, Representative FW1d ...............-·---······ 16,644.00
Total .G rand Lodge Dues .........:..........................................$107,424.15

15. No drafts have been drawn against the Emergency Relief Fund
during the year. An offer of relief was telegraphed to the Grand Master of Colorado at the date of the disastrous floods at Pueblo, but word
was wired back that aid was happily not needed from outside sources.
The condition of the Fund is now as follows :
Balance on hand per report of 1920, cash-............$ 4,368.55
Balance on hand per report of 1920, bonds.............. 4,000.00 $ 8,368.55
Dec. 15, 1920, Interest on bonds ............................
70.00
" 31, " Interest on bank deposit .............. ..
87.36
June 15, 1921, Interest on bonds ............................
70.00
201.26
" 30, " Interest on bank deposit ··-······-~····
Balance in Fund, including U. S. bonds..........

Per capita dues Maintenance Fufl<l.......................~ ........................,.$ 76,200.00
Per capita dues Building F1.m<L....................................................... 38,100.00
•Per capita dues of $20 from each initiate................................- .. 211,(J()().00

'.

449

$ 14,335.17

Disbursements
During the year ending July 31, 1921, I have drawn warrants against
the Grand T reasurer as follows:
Warrant No.
1
400.00
John Whicher, salary, August, 1920..·-·····-······-··-·-$
2
T. J. Baker, salary, August, 1920 ..................................
300.00
3
225.00
H . S. Johnson, salary, August, 1920 ·······-············-·····
4
M. Van Buskirk, salary, August, 1920 ........................
100.00
5 Masonic Temple Associa tion, rent September, 1920
150.00
6 Durant Lodge No. 268, acct. of Mrs. C. ....................
25.00
7 Mrs. E. K. H., order of Gra nd Master ........................
15.00
8 Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 12,000 blanks ............................
85.80
9 Shannott Conmy Co., 425 lists of rejections,
$57.50; 1,000 clasp envelopes, $21.20; 1,000
annual return blanks, $220.00...... -.~ ..........................
298.70
10 . Charles M. Plum, carpet and lining, $181.50;
214.50
cleaning and laying, $33,.00:...- ···-···········-·'·······--······
11
John Whicher, St. Francis Hotel, $10.00;
expressage, $8.81 ; postage stamps, $5.40; tele26.94
grams, $1,83 ; 2 batteries $.90·-···-·······-·············-···
12 W. N. Brunt, Receipts for dues, $67.25; 100 cir72.75
cula rs, $5.50 ·············--~·-·················································
13 F . W. Wentworth Co., 8,000 Cards ····················-·-···
48.00
14 Neal Stratford & Kerr, 1 cone twine ........................
1.70
15 Wilson Bros., moving safe ·····························- ·············
:l.!'iU
16 Moise Klinkner Co., 2 rubber stamps........................
1.75
17
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ................. ~..............................
8.73
18 Hotel Whitcomb, Randall, Schoonover & Mitchell
Masonic education ........................................................
29.95
19 Schmidt Lithograph Co., 291 Diplomas reprint. -.•
2.00

450
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33

34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42

43
44
45
46

. 47
48
49

so

51

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1.50
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ...................•
109.33
T. J. Baker, expenses to August 24, 1920....................
Hotel St. Francis, 42 Luni:heons & cigars Ma111.25
sonic Edu.cation ··················································-········
Crocker National Bank, purchase U . S. Treasury
Notes ....................................................................·-········· 25,000.00
400.00
John Whicher, salary, September, 1920........................•
300.00
T. J. Baker, salary, September, 1920................•...........
225.00
H . S. Johnson, salary, September, 1920........................
100.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary, September, 1920....................
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, October, 1920....
25.00
Durant Lodge No. 268, acct. Mrs. C. ················-·--·
15.00
Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master ........................
52.50
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 8,000 blanks ............................
37.50
W. Heidt Cornice Works, 30 Charter Cases............
Neal Stratford & Kerr, 6 note books, 65c; 2 reams
paper, $8.10; 1 box carbon, $4.25; 24 tablets,
31.90
$6.40; 1,000 copies sacred roll, $12.50........................
10.00
W . V. Cowan, expenses account Masonic Education
John Whicher, postage stamps, $67.01; express84.51
age, $5.40; engrossing, $10.50; ribbon, $1.60............
1.50
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters...................•
14.50
A. Meese, 500 letterheads ............................................
119.03
T. J. Baker, expenses to September 19, 1920............
22.45
Builders Supply Depot, lumber, shelving for library
9.08
Pacific T. & T. Co. rent ...............:................................
2.50
Alhambra Water Depot, drinking water ....................
Walter N. Brunt, badges for delegates, $48.00 ;
500 circulars, $6.00; 700 4 page letters, $21.00;
2,700 credential cards, $20.50; . 2,000 6 page
folders, $26.00; 5,000 second sheets, $21.00;
209.50
Receipts for dues, $67.00..............................................
Yarman & Erbe, card cases, $15.30; file for annual
3?.70
returns, $22.40 .......................................................,........
E. S. Valentine, auditing books Grand Secretary
100.00
& T reasurer ....................................................................
J. H. McGehee, pay of delegates .................................... 10,663.10
Canceled.
Jesse M. Whited, Chairman of committee on
200.00
Correspondence ............................................................
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent ................................
Masonic Temple Association, 1,500 shares stock .... 15,000.00
Charles A. Adams, contingent expenses of Grand
500.00
Master ....................................~ ..........................................
Canceled.

•

52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68

69
70
71
72
73
74

75
76

77
78

79
80
81

82

&3
84
85

Bradford Webster, contingent expenses when
Grand Master ..............................................................._
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243, reimbursement acct.
.Vermont case ................................................................
Masonic Homes, acct. of hospital bill (Willis) ........
Santa P aula Lodge No. 291, overpayment Grand
Lodge dues ....................................................................
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, trial expense ........................
Traver Lodge No. 294, reimbursement account
Arkansas case ................................................................
Forrest Lodge No. 66, reimbursement ........................
Samuel D. Mayer, salary as Grand Organist ............
H. Wright, assistant to Grand Tyler ........................
S. D. Mayer, singers at Grand Lodge ........................
George F . Rodden, contingent expenses Grand
Master ............................................................................
M. Abel, stenographer to committees ......~.................
D. Barton, stenographer to committees ....................
George F . Rodden, trip to St. Louis ........................
John Whicher, trip to St. Louis ...................'.............
Mrs. Geo. P. Adams, one-half year salary of G.
P. Adams as t yler ..........................................................
George Per kins, one-half year salary as Grand
Tyler ..................................................................:.............
John Whicher, salary, Octob'er, 1920..............._.......
T . J. Baker, salary, October, 1920................................
H. S. J ohnson, salary, October, 1920.......:................
M. Van Buskirk, salary, October, 1920........................
Masonic Temple Ass6ciation, rent, November,
1920 ....................................., ..............................................
Durant Lodge No. 268, Account Mrs. C.....................
Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master ....................
Star Towel Supply Co., rent to October 1920............
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ..................................:..........,...
Charles M. Plum, carpet lining & laying, mahogany stand ........................................................................
The Blossom Shop, Horal piece Wuersching............
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 2,220 diplomas ....................
Shannon Conmy Co., 500 large 2c envelopes,
$15.00; 500 small 2c envelopes, $14.00; 425 lists
of rejections, $45.00; one-half ream wrapping
paper, $6.00 ....................................................................
Johnson & Wood, silver service Adams....................
Reed & Reed, 1,000 letterheads and multigraphing..
A. L. Auradou, engrossing 20 charters ........................
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ....................

451
300.00
479.60
768.10
7.20
303.00
239.25
651.45
100.00
15.00
15.00
500.00
5.00
10.00
500.00
500.00
75.00
75.00
416.74
350.00
275.00
110.00
150.00
25.00
15.00
2.25
11.55
31.25
10.00
566.88

80.00
228.60
12.00
40.00
1.50

452
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96

97
98
99

100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114

115
116
117
118
119

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

•

15.00
Wm. Wertsch Co., 30 charter tubes ........................- ..
68.50
W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues ....................................
7.20
Yawman & Erbe, card cases & guides ........................
Neal Stratford & Kerr, SO By-Laws books, $77.50;
79.20
twine, $1.70 .................- ........- ..······-············-····-·..······
John Whicher, expressage, $7.20; telegrams, $1.59;
cable, $1.85; drayage, $4.00; paper for adding
20.20
machine, $1.56; postage stamps, $4.00 ........-......
6.UO
Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit box..•.._.....
57.50
·Underwood Typewriter Co., 1 machine ............._.....
Masonic Board of Relief, San Francisco, appro5,198.99
priation ·····-····....- ..- ...-···--·········-····-·····-··..--...1.52
H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph changes ............
59.81
T. J. Baker, expenses to October 18, 1920................
Masonic· Board of Relief, Los Angeles, appropriation ................................................. _......................- ... 5,916.58
416.66
John Whicher, salary, November, 1920...........- ...........
350.00
T . J. Baker, salary, November, 1920 ......_................
275.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1920 ............- .•
110.00
M. V~n Buskirk, salary, November, 1920...._..............
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, December, 1920..
11.20
Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master ......... _.........
3.80
Spring Valley Water Co., acct. Mrs. E.' K H·-··-·
W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues, $38.00; letter60.50
heads, $22.50 ................................................................- ..
68.50
F. W. Wentworth Ca., 17,000 c.:ards-··-···················-·
16.83
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ·············-································81.50
Gabriel Meyerfield- Co., blanks .............~ ......................
6.00
Frank Watson, tiling schools of instruction ................ ·
2.50
Alhambr; Water Co., drinking water ........................
192.50
Phillips and Van Ord en, 4 rosters ................................
Francis K. Smith, sundry mimeographing.'...............
44.40
7.70
Linn Bonding Surety Co., premium on bonds............
5.20
Burrows Adding Machine Co., attention to machine
N ea! Stratford & Kerr, 1 book of receipts, $2.50;
1,500 Home circulars, $15.00; 1,000 amendments
35.00
to constitution, $17.50 _____ .........................·-···········
51.59
M. Tower, washing aprons and gloves ....................
16.20
Yawman & Erbe CQ., card cases arad guides....·-····
1.50
Kleyn & Foulds, attention to typewriters ................
96.27
· T. ]. Baker, expenses to November 21, 1920..............
Shannon Conmy Co., 1,500 large 2c envelopes,
$45.00; 1,000 small 2c envelopes, $28.00; 750
clasp envelopes, $20.90; 2,000 copies summary
502.40
of proceedings ·-····-·--········-···-·-·-·········-····-·······-

120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

145
146

147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160

John Whicher, postage stamps, $30.64; expressage, $4.95; telegrams, $3.51 ........................................
Board of Relief, San Diego, appropriation ..............
Board of Relief, Sacramento, appropriation:.............
Board of Relief, San Jose, appropriation....................
Board of ReHef, Oakland, appropriation-..................
Durant Lodge No. 268, account Mrs. C....~................
John Whicher, salary, December, 1920....................-..
T. J . Baker, salary, December, 1920 ........................
H. S. Johnson, salary, December, 1920........................
M. Van Buskirk, salary, December, 1920....................
Masonic Temple Association, rent January................
Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand 'Master ....................
George R. Armstrong, 100 mailing tubes ....................
Phillips & Van Orden, 2,000 cards ................................
Shannon Conmy Co., 1,300 proceedings......_............
E. & M. Teahan, stenographic work for committee on education ·····························-·-···•··············
Pacific T . & T . Co., rent ...........................- ......,...............
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ....................
Neal Stratford & Kerr, pencils, twine and paper....
T . J . Baker, expenses to December 22, 1920.........•......
Yawman ·&Erbe Co., Card cases and guides ............
Walter N. Brunt, Receipts for dues ...•...·-············-·-·
John Whicher, postage stamps, $145.61; expressage, $3.08; telegrams, $3.57...... ~·-······················-·······
A. S. Crites, expenses congtituting Lodge1.......-·--··
John Whicher, salary, January, 1921............- ..-··T. J. Baker, salary, January, 1921..-·········-····--..·-···
H . S. Johnson, salary, January, 1921.......·---·-·--·
M. Van Buskirk, salary, January, 1921...............- ........
Masonic Temple Association, rent February, 1921....
Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master............,...........
Walter N. Brunt, 600 price lists, $10.50; receipts
for dnes, $152.25 ............................................................
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 5,000 Cards ............................
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to
machine ............................................................................
Kleyn & F01.1lds, attention to machine....•........- .......•
Star Towel Supply Co., rent ........................................
Mer.cantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit box............
Yawman & Erbe, Card case and Guides ....................
Pacific T. & T . Co., rent.........·-···················-············...
H . S. Crocker Co., addressograph daanges................
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 300 diplomas........................
F. G. Watson, tiling schools of instruction................

453
39.10
1,467.00
590.27
144.75
355.00
25.00
416.66
350.00
275.00
110.00
150.00
15.00
8.25
15.25
2,940.27
6.05
9.68

1.50
10.70
65.81
12.50
59.00
152.26
10.34
416.66
350.00
275.00
110.00
150.00
15.00
162.75
25.25
5.20
1.50
2.25
15.00
5.40
8.75
3.64

105.00
3.00

454·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

T. J. Baker, exp ens.es to January 24, 1921................
99.73
2.00
Alhambra Water Co., drinking water ........................
John Whicher, postage samps, $44.00; Drayage,
57.04
$4.00; expressage, $5.46; telegrams, $3.58................
443.76
164 M. H. Flint, endowment committee, home films ...;....
416.66
165 John Which er, salary, February, 1921........................
350.00
166 T. J. Baker, salary, February, 1921................................
275.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, February, 1921..........................
167
110.00
168 M. Van Buskirk, salary, February, 1921....................
150.00
169 Masonic Temple Association, rent, March, 1921........
12.09
170 Mrs. E. K . H., order of Grand Master ....................
171 Spring Valley Water Co., account of Mrs. E.
K. H .................................................................................
2.91
172 Walter N. Brunt, letterheads, $34.00; Receipts for
172.25
dues, $138.25 ....................................................................
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., blanks ........................................
173
117.25
15.75
174 Yawman & Erbe Co., Card cases & Guides................
67.50
175 Underwood Typewriter Co., 1 machine....................
1.50
176 Kleyn & Foulds, attention to typewriters................
.90
177 Neal Stratford & Kerr, 1 cone of twine.................... ..
178 Shannon Conmy Co., 1,000 small 2c envelopes, ·
$28.00; 500 large 2c envelopes, $15.00; one-half
ream wrapping paper, $13.25; 3,000 address
labels, $9.75; 1,500 small 2c envelopes, $40.50;
500 large 2c envelopes, $15.00; 750 clasp envelopes, $12.10; 700 copies roster, $393.75 ....................
527.35
179 I. J. Mitchell, expenses account Masonic EduS2.30
cation .................................................................................
180 E. & M. Teahon, stenographic work account Ma5.10
sonic Education .......................................:......................
181 Wm. V. Cowan, expenses account Masonic Edu11.86
cation .............. ~...........,....................................................
8.80
182 Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ................................................
32.60
183 W. W. Kaye, expenses account Masonic Education
184 John Whicher, postage stamps, $20.20; express45.92
age, $21.83; telegrams, $3.89 ....................................
134.15
185 T. J. Baker, expenses to February 24, 1921................
186 N ea! Stratford & Kerr, 9795 Constitutions .............. 6,464.70
178.98
187
Howard S. Tracy, account of showing Home films
40.00
M. H. Flint, account of showing Home films ............
188
Masonic Temple 'Association, 2,500 shares of stock.. 25,000.00
189
120.03
190 H. A. Tracy, account showing Home Films................
191 ' John Whicher, salary, March, 1921 ..............................
416.66
350.00
192 T. J. Baker, S<l.lary, March, 1921:..: ...................:............
275.00
193
H. S. Johnson, salary, March, 1921.................:............
110.00
194 . M. Van Buskirk, salary, March, 1921........................
161
162
163

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
225
226

227
228
22~

230
231
232

Masonic Temple Association, rent, April, 1921........
Mrs. E . K. H ., order of Grand Master .......................
W. N. Brunt, 500 2c envelopes, $14.50; Receipts
for dues, $65.00 ..- ............................................................
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 8,000 blanks ........................
John Whicher, expressage, $16.88; postage
stamps, $54.73; ................................................................
Alace Knudsen, typing cards for L. A. Board
of Relief ..........................................................................
Pacific T . & T . Co., rent ................................................
Mac Printing Co., letterheads for Masonic Education ................................................................................
Pantograph Printing Co., 440 lists of Regular
Lodges ..............................................................................
Phillips & Van Orden Co., 5,000 Postal Cards........
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ................
Yawmari & Erbe Co., Card cases & Guides ............
Shannon Conmy Co., 1,000 Monitors, $300.00; 500
notices, $5.50 ................................................................
Keystone Printing Co., 2 receipt books ....................
Edward H. Kemp, motion picture machine................
T. J. Baker, expenses to March 20, 1921....................
Republic Casualty Co., premium on bonds ................
Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit box ..............
Miss D. DeHart, typing cards L. A. Board of
Relief .................................................................................
H. S. Tracy, account showing Home Pictures............
J . 0. Moncur, expenses to investigate charges........
John Whicher, salary, April, 1921 ..................................
T. J. Baker, salary April 1921........................................
H. S. Johnson, salary, April, 1921................................
M. Van Buskirk, salary, April, 1921............................
Masonic Temple Association, rent, May, 1921............
Mrs. E . K. H., order of Grand Master ........................
W. N. Brunt, Receipts for dues ....................................
E. & M. Tehon, stenographic work for Masonic
Education ........................................................................
The Agency Co., premium on bonds ............................
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 7,000 blanks ............................
Burrows & Houston, bill heads ................................
Palace Hotel Florist, floral piece H. M. O wens ........
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters....................
N ea! Stratford & Kerr, office supplies........................
National Masonic Research Society, Antiquities
of Masonry ......................................................................
Phillips & V an Orden, 500 ruled sheets $15.00;
cash book, $37.50.............,,......................: .••...;..........:.....

455
150.00
15.00
79.50
39.25
71.61
18.00
9.73
19.18
166.04
25.00
1.50
6.75
305.50
32.75
262.55
103.57
1,010.80
6.00
12.00
322.30
6.38
416.66
350.00
275.00
110.00
150.00
15.00
46.25
4.75
47.00
55.75
12.50
10.00
1.50
5.65
7.00
52.50

456
233
234
235

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ··········--·---···-··----·-······-----········
Podesta & Baidocchi, fl.oral piece, H. Wood-----------·
John Whicher, Bennett's History of Knight
Templars, $6.00; exprcssage, $11.78; telegra~s,

8.50
10.00

$3.53 ··-·-····--························································-········-····

21.31
317.83
109.80
307.83
249.95
86.85

T. J . Baker, expenses to April 28, 1921........................
H . S. Tracy, account showing Home pictures ........
M. H. Flint, reds etc., account of Home pictures....
H. S. Tracy, account showing Home pictures............ .
Jesse_M. Whited, account showing Home pictures ....
George F. Rodden, contingent expenses of Grand
Master ···----·····-···--·······-------------·-·-··-····--·--······----··········-···
242
John Whicher, salary, May, !921................................
2420 T. J. Baker, salary, May, 1921........................................
H. S. Johnson, salary, May, 1921-...........................,.......
243
M. Van Buskirk, salary, May, 1921...................:........
244
F. G. Hobb<s, salary, May, l92L.•.......:........................
245
246
Masonic Temple Association, rent ··----······--··--··--··---···
247
Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master.·-···-----·-·····-·-···
248
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent -----··-----··---···-···-··········-·······----·
249
Burrows & Houston, 1,000 letterheads, $8.50;
5,000 lette.rheads, $28.75 ···-·-·-·········--·--·····-·----·----······-·
250 Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 18,000· bl-anks ..·-·····------··-···-···-·
251 • Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ·-·----·---·····---252
Moise Klinker Co., 1 rubber stamp ··---·--····--··----··-----·
253
Yawman & Erbe Co., Card cases & Guides.·-··---·--·-···
254 F. K. Smith, 500 circulars ---··--·--····---···---···-·-------········
255 Star Towel Supply Co., rent ·-··--··-···--·········--···--····-·····
256
John Whicher, telegrams, $4.99 ; expressage, $19.11
257
T . J . Baker, expenses to May 1, 192L--··················----·
258
W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues ·--·---····-····----·-·---·······
259
Burroughs Adding Machine, 1 machine..·----·--··-·-··-··
260
H. S. Tracy, account showing Home pictures..........
H. S. Tracy, account showing Home pictures............
261
262
Jesse M. Whited, account showing Home pictures
W. R. Gibson, account showing Home pictures _______ _
263
264
John Whicher, salary, June, 1921......----··---·-·················
265
T. J. · Baker, salary, June, 1921....................................
266
H . S. Johnson, salary, June, 1921..____________ ··-----·---·--····.
267 M. Van Buskirk, salary, June, 1921.......,....................
268 F. G. Hobbs, Salary, June, 192L.....·--····-·-···--·········-·-··
269
Masonic Temple Association, rent, July, 1921............
270
Mrs. E. K. H., order of Grand Master·-···-··---·---·-·······
271
John Whicher, postage stamps, $7.03; expressage,
$9.13; te legrams, $6.61.......................................·-··········
272
W. N. Brunt, 2,000 second sheets, $7.00; receipts
for dues, $52.00 ----·········-··-;·-·············-·-··-····-···-······-·:.....
236
237
238
239
240
241

:r

500.00
416.66
350.00
275.00
110.00
50.00
150.00
15.00
9.35
' 37.25
99.75
1.50
5.50
3.70
4.50
3.00
24.10
58.81
35.50
162.19
175.70
109.88
16.41
16i.73
416.66
350.00
275.00
110.00
50.00
150.00
15.00

22.77
59.00

GRAND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA

457

Neal Stratford & Kerr, ink, pens and twine...- ...........
Burroughs adding machine, attention to machine ....
275
Pacific T . & T. Co., rent ---··--·······-···---····-·-·------········
276
Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe depos.it box................
277
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters -----···---···-·····
278
Burrows & Houston, 2,000 cards committee on
· credentials, $23.35; 1 check book, $23.00................
279 Chas. C. Navlet Co., floral piece Jarman ····--···--·····
280
T . J. Baker, expenses to June 22, 1921.........--.-·-···281
John Whicher, balance pay roll ----··-·--···--·-····--·--······
282
Pacific Title Card Co., account Home Films... ___ _
283
J . M. Whited, account showing Home Pictures ........
284 W. R. Gibson, account showing Home Pictures ....
2840 W. P. Filmer, salary for year ···-····-······-··'····················
285
John Whicher, salary, July, 1921..................................
T. J. Baker, salary, July, 1921---·····························
286
287
H . S. Johnson, salary, July, 1921..---····---·-~w·········--··
288
M. Van Buskirk, salary, July, 1921...........................•
289
F. G. ,Hobbs, salary, July, lg2L.......·-········-·······-··290
Mrs. E. K . H., order of Grand Master ........................
291
Masonic Temple Association, rent....·-·--···---·-·--·292
W . N. Brunt, receipts for dues.------···-·-:·-···---··
293
Burrows & Houston, 200 dispensations to form
273
274

294

295
296
297
298
299

Lodges ··-········-····················-··---········-·-······--·······-···--··
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters....................
Yawman & Erbe, Card cases & Guides ·····-··-·········
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.-························-······-···········
H . S. Crocker, changes on addressograph ................
John Whicher, telegrams, $.80; expressage,
$10.98; postage stamps, $63.20 ·············-·.················
T. J. Baker, expenses to July 27, 1921........................

18.52
5.20
10.60
15.00
1.50
46.35
10.00
112.17
317.73
14.26
5.25
326.50
200.00
416.66
350.00
275.00
110.00 .
50.00
15.00
150.00
31.75
27.00
1.50
1.85
9.68
1.00
74.98
116.99

$133,723.61
JOHN WHICH:ER,

Grand Secretary.

Referred to the Special Committee on Grand Master's
Address.
The Grand Secretary was directed to telegraph to our
Senior Past Grand Master, George C. Perkins, the felicitations of his brethren in Grand Lodge assembled. ·
Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock. to-morrow
morning.

458

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Without going into the various matters contained in the
address, all of which will rece ive the attention of our Grand Lodge
Committees, your Committee recommends reference of t he subject
matter as follows:

3Ju (l;rnttb ilobge
Morning Session

Masonic Service Association: T o the Committee on General
Policy and Purposes.

Wednesday, October 12, 1921_

-

459

.

Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and
approved.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND MASTER'S
ADDRESS
Brother Henrf'E. Verble presented the following report:
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee to which was referred the Grand Master's
Address, and the annual report of the Grand Secretary, has had th.e
same under consideration, and respectfully reports thereon as follows:
I
Grand Master's Address
We have read with earnest approval the account rendered by
the Most Worshipful Grand Master with respect to his stewardship
of the affairs of the Fraternity during the Masonic year now closing. The matters touched upon in the address indicate clearly
that a vast volume of work has fallen upon the Grand Master and
that it has received his most energetic attention.
You who have had the privilege and pleasure of meeting our
Most Worshipful Grand Master as he has traveled over the jurisdiction know and appreciate how untiring have been his efforts to
build into the Craft that true fraternal spirit that we are sometimes prone to neglect. To know him is t o love him. And your
Committee feels that the personal touch which .he has endeavored
to give to the Craft has proven of inestimable value.
Your Committee desires to express, for itself and for this
Grand Lodge, full appreciation of the devoted service which our
Most Worshipful Grand Master has rendered to t he Craft. We
find his address replete with observations and recommendations of
large and lasting value, and sincerely commend the same to the
th oughtful considerat_ion of our brethren throughout the jurisdiction.
~:

Mexican Masonry:
Purposes.

To the Committee on General P olicy and

Masonic Homes:

To the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Masonic Club : To the Committee on General Policy and P urposes and the Committee on Finance.
Inspectors:

To the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Private Concerns : To the Committee on General Policy and
Purposes.
Clandestine Masonry : To the Committee on General Policy
and Purposes.
Organizations Demanding Masonic Affiliation: To t he Committee on General P olicy and Purposes.
Decisions:

To the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Grand Secretary's Report

The report of our beloved and revered Grand Secretary shows
in most striking manner the prosperity of the Craft throughout the
jurisdiction. The facts contained in the report w ill be ·received, we
are convinced, with genuine enthusiasm and pleasure by t he brethren of the Grand Lodge and constituent Lodges.
We recommend reference of the Grand Secretary's report as
follows:
Masonic H ome Revenue: T o the Committ ee on Finance.
Reports of Lodges:

To the Committee on Returns

Lodges Under Dispensation:

T o t he Committee on Charters.

Statement of Work:

To the Committee on Returns.

Duplicate Charter:

To t he Committee on Charters.

Courtesy Work:
Purposes.

To the Committee on General Policy and

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Constitution and Ceremonies: To the Committee on Finance.
Amendments to By-laws : To the Committee on Jurisprudence..
Life Memberships :

To the Committee on JuriS1J'rudence.

Special Dispensations : To the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Trial Records : To the Committee on Grievances.
F inancial Statement: To the Committee on Finance.

H. E. VERBLE
WILLARD CLARK
CHAS. G. LAMBERT

Committee.

The report was adopted as read.

MASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIATION OF THE
UNITED STATES
The report of the Grand Master and Grand Secretary,
as a committee sent to the annual meeting of the Masortic
"Service Association by this Grand Lodge, was read as
follows:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California;
Pursuant to the instructions of Grand Lodge as adopted at the
annual communication last year, your Grand M·aster and Grand Secretary attended the annual meeting of the Masonic. Service Association
of the Uilited States, held at the city of St. Louis, Missouri, November
9, 10, and 11, 1920. There were present at the meeting seventy-two
able. and distinguished Masons, representing the following jurisdictions :

Connecticut, Charles' C. Perkins, Grand Master; Delaware, Harry .
G. Guthrie, Past Grand Master; Georgia, N. H. Ballard, and Robert J.
Travis, Past Grand Masters ; Iowa, Jesse A. W est, Grand Master ;
Thomas Arthur, Louis Block, Charles C. Clark, George L. Schoonover,
Past Grand Masters; Newton R. Parvin, Grand Secretary, and B.
Shimek; Louisian'D, John W. Armstrong, Rudolph Krause, Past Grand
Masters ; H. H. Bain, Deputy Grand Master ; Joseph Sinai, Grand
Junior Warden, and John A. Davilla, Grand Secretary; Maryland,
Charles C. Homer, Grand Master, and Warren S . Seipp, Deputy Grand
Master; Massachusetts, Melvin M. Johnson, Past Grand Master; M ichigan, Ira J. Beck, Grand Master; Hugh A. McPherson, P ast Grand

461

Master, and Lou B. W'insor, Grand Secretary; Mississippi, L. A. Benoist
and J esse M. Brooks, Past Grand Masters and William H. Carter, Past
Grand High Priest ; Missouri, William F. Johnson, Grand Master; Corona H . Briggs and Jacob Lampert, Past Grand Masters; C. F . Blomberg
and Herman Mauch, Past Grand Commanders ; and George S. McLanahan; Montana., Robert J. Hathaway, Grand Master, and E. M. Hutchinson,
Past Grand Master ; Ne braska, Joseph B. Fra.denburg, Grand Master;
Frank E. Bullard and William W. Keysor, Past Grand Masters; New
H ampshire, Harry G. Noyes, Past Grand Master, and Harry M. Cheney,
Grand Secretary ; New J ersey, W. Holt Apgar, W. L. Daniels, Austen
H. McGregor, Past Grand Masters, and Arthur l'otterton, Senior Grand
Warden; N~w Mexico, Richard H. Hanna, Grand .Master; .Vew Y ork,
Townsend Scudder, Past Grand Master, and William C. Prime ; North
Carolina, William W . Willson, Grand Secretary ; N orth Dakota, Allan
V. Haig, Grand Master; Grant S. Hagar, W. L. Stockwell, Past Gr.,nd
Masters, and E. George Guthrie, chairman Finance Committee; Oklahoma, Frank A. Derr, Grand Master; W illiam M. Anderson, 0. L.
Connor, W. L. Eagleton, Past Grand Masters; and W. Mark Sexson,
Grand Commander; Pennsylvania, Louis A. Watres, Past Grand
Master; R hode Island, J ose"ph Lawton, Deputy Grand Master, and
Frederick I. Dana, Senior Grand Warden; South Carolina, S. T. Lanham, Grand Master ; James L. Michie, Past Grand Master, and G. C.
Blackwood, Senior Grand Deacon; .S outh Dakota, George A. Pettigrew,
Grand Secretary; T en.nessee, S. W. Williams, Past Grand High Priest,
and Paul DeWitt ; Texas, W . M. Fly, A. A. Ross, Past Grand Masters ;
Andrew L. Randell, Deputy. Grand Master, and D. F. Johnson, Grand
Senior Warden; Uta h, J. L. Cattron, Grand Master, and Arthur C.
Wherry, P ast Grand Master.
The following brethren were present as guests : California., George
F. Rodden, Grand Master, and J ohn W hicher, Grand Secretary ; Ancient·
and Accepted Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction, Alexander G. Cochran, Inspector General ; Grand Encampment Knights T emplar, Gib W.
Carson ; Gen.era/ Grand Chapter R oyal Arch Mason.s, Frederick W.
Craig, General Grand High Priest.
Past Grand Master Melvin M. J ohnson of Ma"Ssachusetts, one of
the ablest and best Masons in America, presided.
Past Grand Master Schoonover of Iowa, as chairman of the Executive Committee of the Association, reported the activities of the Association for the year, and the expense account. The revenues consisted of:
Subscriptions from Grand Lodges............................$23,215.13
Sales of Proceedings ....................................................-.. 1,808.00 $25,023.13

462

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The expenditures were :
Rent and overhead ............................................................
Postage ................................................................................
Expressage ...............•..................................................•.......
Telegraph and telephone ..................................................
Printing and supplies ......................................................
Executive Committee, traveling expenses..................
Salaries of employes ..........................................................
Accounts payable ..............................................................

7,500.00
962.75
100.72
139.50
6,092.48
5,056.14
4,125.00 $23,974.59
1,689.00

Total expenditures and liabilities ........................

$25,663.59

The inventory of assets, consisting of envelopes, bulletins, blanks,
three typewriters and an addressograph, listed at $5,801.15. .
The report of the Executive Committee showed an expense account
for last year of two cents per capita for the membership of the 37
Grand Jurisdictions belonging. (California's tax for last year would
have been $1,340.00, or six per cent of the total cost.) One member
jurisdiction represented at the St. Louis meeting stated that two cents
per capita was objected to by his Grand E,odge, and yet it is proposed
to fix the tax at five cents per capita, which would mean this year for
California a payment of more than $4,200.00. A permanent Secretary
has now been employed, at presumably a salary befitting the position,
with permanent headquarters at the city of Washington, D. C.
The general purpose of the Association is a "joint and co-operative
effort of the member Grand Lodges to mobilize the ideals and intellect
of all for a solution of those problems which are nation-wide." The
type of service which it is ambitious to render is two-fold: "Relief for
distress, no matter how caused, when its magnitude is greater than
local calamity; and education of our membership, in order that every
Mason may do his full part in helping solve the vexing questions which
today harass humanity."
All this of course is commendable, but the detail of the plan is
not in our humble judgment to be commended. Take the scheme for
relief for an instance; The by-laws o.f the Association provide t!iat
"Upon the occurrence of a disaster· of greater magnitude than a local
calamity, the Grand Masters of the several · member Grand Jurisdictions
within the division in which said disaster may occur, shall appoint a
committee to survey the needs and report forthwith its findings to the
Executive Commission. The Executive Committee shall thereupon
take action on the report of said Grand Masters to the encf that necessary funds shall be provided and properly disbursed."
California Masons, who experienced the glorious and immediate
relief sent from all parts of the world at the time of the destruction of

463

the cities of San Francisco and Santa Rosa by earthquake and fire in
1906, and which relief was so urgently needed, will hardly assent to the
imposition of any circumlocution such as is proposed by the Association.
We know the joy and the beauty of voluntary and immediate response
to need, and like many other jurisdictions, we always take cognizance of
the great calamities that occur at times outside our confines by promptly
telegraphing assistance, fully trusting the afflicted brethren to do what
ought to be done, without the intervention or investigation of any outside committee or commission. We are sure this Grand Lod~e will
not approve the proposed scheme of relief.

In the matter of Masonic education proposed by the Association,
we can heartily indorse it as a proper Masonic work, but one that can
be handled by the several jurisdictions and by Masonic publications at
less cost than will be entailed by the Association and fully as effectively.
As is usual in any assemblage, much interesting oratory was
indulged in, and the brethren expressed their views frankly, but with
a diversity of sentiment which indicated to us that it would be a difficult matter for the association to frame a code of laws acceptable to
the craft. All through the many addresses the dominant thought
seemed· to be that the Masons of the United States should get together
and operate as a unit. But there was lack of unanimity, so far as the
speeches indicated, as to just what line of operation should be pursued.
Several eloquent brethren expressed the notion that we 'aught to "swat"
the Pope; others· that we as Masons should take an active part in
politics and see that none but Masons should be elected to public
office; one frankly questioned the practicability of the organization.
However, a considerable sentiment appeared to be that the Association
should confine its activities to an endeavor to inspire Masons to develop
in their respective Grand Jurisdictions, through agencies already established, a clearer understanding of what Masonry is and for what it
stands-and if the Association would hold to this broad proposition we
could commend it to your favorable consideration, with certain reservations, to wit: That the Association eliminate from its by.laws and
scheme of organization everything except the proposition to invite an
annual or biennial gathering of representatives of the several Grand
Lodges for the sole purpose of getting in close personal touch, to
exchange ideas, to encourage jurisdictions to devote time and energy
to education along lines of civic endeavor and personal righteousness;
to not attempt any cumbersome and impractical plan of general work
or to formulate any definite programme-our idea being that the representatives should get, by personal contact, the viewpoints of the
others and to stimulate each other to go back home "".'ith renewed hope
and renewed faith that the real mission of Masonry is not to advertise

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA:ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

our benefactions, but ro teach our novitiates to be law-abiding, loyal
citizens, alive to all matters political, social and moral, that tend to
stability in government and decency in the home. All this to be without
dues or fees except possibly the expense of sending a representative to·
such conference.
We recommend that this Grand Lodge do not join the Masonic
Service Association, as at present organized.
GEORGE F. RovmlN,
Grand Master.

I have visited most of the districts throughout the jurisdiction,
and have held schools of instruction, both day and night sessions.
These schools have all been well attended by the officers and many
members who were interested in the work, all keen in their desire
to perfect themselves in the ritual. I have also given instruction
to officers and brethren in my office from time to time, and often
at the Masonic Club.
The work accomplished by the Most Worshipful Grand Master
in his visitations during the year has been of great benefit to the
Craft. He has visited almost every District and has conferred
degrees at most of the meetings. The appreciation of the brethren
was evinced by the large attendance at the meetings, and the
splendid and impressive manner in which the Grand Master per- ·
formed this work will surely result in much good.

464

]ORN WHICKER,

Grand Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and Purposes.
Past Grand Master Milton H. Price of Tennessee was
introduced and received w ith due honors.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To .the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of Califor11,ia:

Never before has there been such an enormous growth of the
fraternity as we have had during the two years past. Twenty new
Lodges have been formed this year-the same number last year.
The formation of these Lodges has · to some extent relieved the
vast amount of work which has confr<:>nted many of the Lodges.
The net gain, however, is bU;t slightly less than last year. Quite
a number of Lodges have adopted a policy to not endeavor to keep
up with the petitions offered, but have simply made th.e candidates
wait a time with patience,, and have followed a suggestion made
not to confer more than three firsts or seconds and only one third
degree at· any one meeting. This has given the Lodges time for .
educational and social enU:rtainments, which policy has also' increased the attendance and has resulted in much benefit to the
officers and members, as well as getting away from the so-called
degree mill, that many of the Lodges have resorted to in their
efforts to keep up with the petitions presented. Hence it would
seem that the best solution to relieve this excess of work is the
f.ormation of new Lodges. The really true fraternal spirit prevails
to a far greater extent in the small Lodge than is possi-ble in the
larger ones, the former giving more opportunity for the members
to become acquainred' with one another.

465

Grand Master's Visitations
Following is a detailed account of the visitations of the Grand
Master:
October 15, 1920, constituted several Lodges in San Francisco.
October 16, constituted five Lodges in Oakland.
October 18, constituted Golden Rule Lodge in San Jose.
October 19, constituted Atascadero Lodge at Atascadero.
October 20, constituted five Lodges in Los Angeles.
October 23, attended reception to Grand Master by Marin
Lodge.
October 25, constituted Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481 · at San
Francisco.
October Z7, attended reception to Grand Master by Mission
Lodge No. 169.
October 30, attended reception to Grand Master by Mill Valley
Lodge No. 356.
November 4, attended reception to Gra;nd Master by Crockett
Lodge No. 139 and conferring of third degree, and address.
November 22, attended reception at Richmond L odge No. 375,
and conferring of the third degree, and address.
November 27, visit to Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 and conferring
the third degree, and address.
November 29, visit to Occidental Lodge No. 22. Reception
and address.
November 30,.reception at Park Lodge No. '4'49, and address.
December 14, installation of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Officers' reception and address.
·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAJ.IFORNIA

December 16, installation of Jewel Lodge No. 374. Reception
ai:_id address.
December 21, installation of Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Reception and address.
December 22, installation of Lodges in the 41 st District at
San Jose. Reception and address.
December 23, instailation of the officers of Yerba Buena Lodge
No. 403. Reception and address.
December 27, joint installation of the Sacramento Lodges. Reception and address.
December 28, joint installation at Woodland of the Lodges in
th.e 21st District.
December 29, joint installation of the Stockton Lodges. Reception and address.
December 30, installation of the officers at Turlock. Reception
and address.
January 5, 1921, installation of the Lodges of the 48th District,
at Orosi. Reception and address.
·
January 6, installation of Coalinga Lodge No. 387 officers. Reception and address.
January 7, joint installation of the Lodges in the 29th District.
Reception and address.
January 8, installation of the officers of the Valiejo Lodges.
Reception and address.
January 11, installation at Santa Cruz. Reception and address.
January 14, Martinez Lodge No. 11. Installation, reception and
address.
January 15, joint installation of .the Lodges of the 33d A District, at Pleasanton. Reception and address.
January 18, joint installation at Yuba City, 15th District. Reception and ~ddress.
January 19, installation of Orland Lodge No. 265 and Laurel
Lodge No. 245 at Willows. Reception and address.
·
January 20, joint installation at Arbuckle, Lodges of the 16th
District. Reception and address.
J anua ry 21, joint installation at Chico, Lodges of the 14th
District. Reception and address.
January 22, installation of Lodi Lodge and Woodbridge Lodge
No. 131. Reception and address.
March 12, visit to Lodges of Fresno. Reception and third
degree. Address.

March 17, visit to Los Gatos Lodge No. 292. Reception, third
degree and address.
March 19; visit to Lodges of the 4Sth District. Third degree
by Grand Master, assisted by Inspectors of Bay District. Reception and address.
March 23, visit to Mt. Moriah Lodge No. 44. Reception, third
degree and address.
March 25, visit to Paul Revere Lodge No. 462. Third degree,
reception and address.
March 26, visit to Lodges of the 13th District at Lincoln.
Third degree, reception and address.
_h1farch 28, visit to Victory Lodge No. 474. Third degree, reception and address.
March 30, visit to Lodges of the 42nd District. Grand Mast er
conferred third degree, and address.
April 2, institution· of Point and Harbor Lodges at Richmond.
April 5, visit to Apollo Lodge No. 396. Reception and address.
April 11 , visit to Lodges of the 61st District. Third degree
and address.
April 12, visit to Covina. Received from Dr. Flora Smith,
Grand Matron of the Amaranth, check for $1,300.00 for children's
playground.
April 13, visit to Lodges of the 68th District at Corona. Third
degree and address.
April 14, visit to Lodges of the Imperial Valley at El Centro.
Third degree and address.
April 15, visit to Lodges of San Diego. Third degree an d
address.
April 16, visit t o Lodges of the 65th District at Fullerton.
Third degree and address.
April 17, visit to Children's Home, Covina.
April 28, visit to Berkeley Lodges. Reception and address.
April 30, cornerstone at Hollister, High School building. ..
May 2, cornerstone at Atascadero, High School building.
May 2, vfsit to King David's Lodge No. 209, San Luis Obispo.
Recept ion and address.
May 3, visit to Bakersfield. Third degree and address.
May 4, visit to Visalia. Reception and address.
May 5, visit to Hanford. Third degree and address.
May 6, visit to Dinuba. Dedication of Masonic Temple.

466

467

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

May 7, visit to Mariposa. Third degree and address.
May 18, visit to Healdsburg. !hird degree and address.
May 19, visit to Petaluma Lodge No. 180. Third degree and
address.
May 20, visit to Sebastopol. Third degree and address.
May 26, visit to Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219. Third degree
·and address.
May 28, receptio~ and address at San Rafael.
May 31, visit to Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Reception and
address.
June 2, visit to Friendship Lodge No. 210 at San Jose. Recep-

June 27, visit to Lodges of the 53rd District, at Santa Barbara.
Third degree and address.
June 28, visit to Lompoc. Reception and address.
Juiy 13, visit to Lodges of the Third District at Ukiah. Third
degree and address.
July 14, visit to Lodges of the Second District at Mendocino.
Third . degree and address.
July 15, Visit to Fortuna. Third degree and address. Lodges
of th~ First District.
July 16, visit to Crescent City. Third degree and address.
July 18, visit to Fo"rt Jones, Lodges of the 4th District. Reception and address.
·
July 19, visit to Lodges of the 4th A District at McCloud.
Third degree and address.
July 20, visit to Western Star Lodge No. 2, at Shasta. Third
degree and address.
August 6, cornerstone laying of Masonic Temple at Stockton.
August 9, visit to Lebanon Lodge U. D.
August 13, visit to Santa Rosa. Third degree and address.
August 16, reception and third degree at Richmond.
August 17, reception of the Lodges of Oakland. Third degree
and address.
August 23, visit to Palo Alto, Lodges of the 40th District.
Third degree and address.
August 26, visit to La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17. Third
degree and address.
August 27, fiftieth anniversary. Visit to Livermore, . Lodges
of the 33rd A District. Reception and address.
September 1, visit to Dc:lano, Lodges of the Slst District. Third
degree and address.
September 2, visit to Merced, : Lodges of the 44th District.
Reception and address.
September 3, joint meeting at Dinuba, Lodges of the 48th D.i strict. Third degree and address.
September 7, cornerstone at Sacramento, Chamber of Commerce building.
September 15, visit to Dutch Flat. Third degree and address.
September 20, fiftieth anniversary Speranza Italiana No. 219.
September 21, visit to Starr King Lodge No. 344. . Third degree and address.

468

tion and address.
June 3, cornerstone of Grammar School at Lincoln.
June 3, visit to Auburn, Lodges of the 13th District. Third
. degree and address.
·
June 4, cornerstone laying at Live Oak Union High School.
June 6, visit to Lodges of the 23rd District at Ione. Third
degree and address.
June 7, visit to San Andreas, Lodges of the 24th District. Third
degree and address.
June 8, visit to Sonora, Lodges of the 25th District. Third
degree and address.
June 9, visit to Oakdale. Third degree and address.
June 11, visit to San Leandro. Third degree and address.
June 13, visit to Trinity Lodge No. 27, at Weaverville. Third
degree and address.
June 15, visit to Orland Lodge No. 265, Lodges of the 7th District. Third degree and address.
June 20, visit to Pasadena, Lodges of the 60th A District.
Reception and address.
Jun~ 21, visit to Monrovia, Lodges of the 62nd District. ~e­
ception and address.
June 22, visit to Redlands, Lodges of the 67th District. Third
degree and address.
June 23, visit to Artesia, Lodges of the 63rd District. Third
degree and a4dress.
June 24, visit to Esco_ndido, Lodges of the 70th A District.
Third degree and address.
June 25, reception of the Lodges of Los Angeles to the Grand
Master. Address.

469

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

September 22, joint meeting of the Lodges of the 43rd District
at Pacific Grove. Third degree and address.

Condition of Lodges
I have received reports from all the Inspectors, and they report
the Lodges under their guidance to be prosperous and the general
condition o f the Lodges is good, and doing effective work. Most
of these are in splendid financial condition. A large majority have
worked out a regular educational program each month, which has
been of much benefit to all concerned and has stimulated interest
and increase in attendance.

470

September 23, joint meeting at Placerville, Lodges of the 22nd
District. Reception and address.
September 24, joint meeting at Courtland, Lodges of the 20th A
District. Third degree and address.
September 26, visit to King Solomon's Lodge No. 260. Third
degree and address.
September 27, dedication of Masonic Temple at Turlock.
September 29, vis.it to Bethlehem Lodge No. 453. Third degree
and address.
October 1, visit to Middletown, Lodges of the 17th District.
Third degree and address.
October 8, reception and dinner by the friends and brethren
. of Marin county at San Rafael.
October 12, reception of the Lodges of San Francisco at the
Civic Auditorium.
It has been my pleasure to accompany the Most Worshipful
Grand Master on many of his visits throughout the State. He has
·visited most of the districts. Many of these were joint meetings.
At quite a few of these visits the Grand Master conferred the third
degree in his own inimitable manner, bringing out the hidden
beauties of the ritual, which was much enjoyed and highly instructive to all, by the perfect and splendid exemplification of the work
conferred, and which was followed by his interesting, progressive,
spiritual . and moral ideals, impressed in his addresses, pointing out
the duties that we as Masons should practice in our daily lives.
All of which was greatly enjoyed and enthusiastically received by
the brethren. Many of these visits were to Lodges that had never
before had the honor of receiving a visit from a Grand Master.
Among this number was Western Star No. 2, at Shasta. Many
years ago this was a busy, thriving community, but now almost
qeserted. The brethren came from great distances to attend the
meeting.
Deaths of Inspectors
It is with much regret and sorrow that I report the loss and
death of Brother John P. Jarman, Brother Granville D. Warren
and Brother Edmund E. Knepper, all of whom had served this
Grand Lodge faithfully and well as Inspectors for many years.
The fraternity and the communities in which they lived have sustained a great loss.

471

Commendation
Too much can not be said for the valuable assistance that the
Inspectors have rendered to me during the year and for the uniform courtesy extended at all times, and t he good condition of the
Lodges in their districts, all of which is worthy of commendation
and my ~incere thanks and appreciation are hereby given to them.
I desire to express my thanks to the Very w ·orshipful Grand
Secretary for many courtesies during the year .
Trusting that my efforts will meet the approbation of the
Grand Lodge, and thanking them for the confidence reposed in
me, I herewith submit my annual report.
Fraternally submitted,
THOMAS

J. BAK'ER,

Grand Lecturer.

Referred to the ·following Committee: Theodore M.
Vv right, Frank B. Drake, Irving Magnes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

472

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge ofi_ California:
Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California submits herewith its annual report for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1921,
and incidental matters up to and including September 17, 1921 :
Immediately after the close of the annual communication of Grand
Lodge in October, 1920, your Board met and organized by re-electing
Brother Charles M. Wollenberg as President, and Brother James B.
Gist as Vice President. The Board as now constituted consists of the
following members: Charles M. Wollenberg, whose term will expire
in 1922; James B. Gist, whose term will expire in 1923; Charles G.
Johnson whose term expires October, 1921; Robie E. Dill, whose term
· will expire in 1924; and the Deputy Grand Master, and Senior and
Junior Grand Wardens, together with the Grand Treas~rer and Grand
Secretary as ex officio Treasurer and Secretary r.espect1vely: Brother
Dill became a member by appointment of the Grand Master, m November, 1920, Vice E. B. Spencer, term expired. ·
Six regular meetings were held in the year and weekly conference
meetings were held in Los Angeles and San Francisco.
In accordance with the authority granted by Grand Lodge last year,
your Trustees on November 6, 1920, appointed Brother E. B. Spencer
as Superintendent of the Home at Covina. Brother Spencer had been
for many years a hard-working and zealous member of the Board of
Trustees, and during the years of his incumbency had given much
valuable time and thought to the affairs of the children. He was the
logical appointee to take the active management of the Covina Home,
and we believed his tenure as Superintendent would be marked by
continuing this institution as one of the great agencies for child welfare
in America.
·
.
It later appeared to Brother Spencer that his private business would
suffer more than we could reasonably ask if he should continue to
devote his entire time to the affairs of the Home as Superintendent, and
on September 17, 1921, he presented hi~ resignation, in the following
letter:
·
"Covina, California, Sept. 17, 1921.
"Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California.
"Gentlemen:
"In · closing my report for the year's record of activities at our
Covina Home I find much pleasure in the fact that we are now enjoying many fea~ures long desired but not established. The Vocational
Building for Boys, the Domestic Science Cottage for Girls, the extensive
playground equipment, the boys club room, the girls music roon; and
the beautiful operation of our self-government plan places our children
in a situation for general development that is probably not equaled in
a home of this character in the country.

473

"I feel that I have had a most active part in accomplishing this
result. It has been attended, however, with much effort and much
sacrifice. It has met with much praise . and our management has
received the strongest approval of those most familiar with the work
and most competent to judge. It has not been without criticism. The
detail of the work has been trying. The effort to please all has not
been entirely successful, but has takep long hours and much labor. My
personal affairs have suffered. My time has been taken from my family
much more than I anticipated.
"For this reason and for the reason that all the real needs for the ·
most successful operation of the Home hav~ been met, I beg to tender
you my resignation as Superintendent of the Covina Home, to take
effect at your convenience. Permit me to thank all members of your
Board for the kind association and p!easant labors together in the
interests of the most interesting and deserving family of happy and
healthy children in the world, let me assure you of my heartiest cooperation in your good work, and if I may at any time be of service
to you by counsel or otherwise, consider me always at your command.
"Fraternally yours,
E. B. SPENCER."
The resignation was reluctantly accepted; but at the earnest solicitation of the Board, Brother Spencer was prevailed upon to continue as
Superintendent until the end of the year.
NEW BUILDINGS AT COVINA

A~

the November meeting, 1920, the Board appointed a building
committee for the purpose of considering the wants of the Covina
Home, consisting of Trustees Gist, Burke and Dill, with instructions to
cause to be prepare\l plans for a home for the Superintendent a vocational tra.ining building for boys (the gift of the Grand Chap;er R. A.
M. of California), and a domestic science building for girls (the gift
of the Grand Council R. & S. M. of California) .. On January 22, 1921,
contracts were entered into for the construction of the three buildings,
an? t.hey are now complet~d and in daily use. The vocational training
bmldmg was formally dedicated April 18 by Brother Harry Maundrell
as High Priest of the Grand Chapter, who was attended by his officers
and many members of that grand body. On the same ·day the domestic
science building was formally presented and dedicated by' Brother
David J. Reese, Grand Master of Royal and Select Masters ~ho was
likewise accompanied by his grand officers and a large ~umber of
members of the Grand Council.
BUILDINGS AT DECOTO

Your Trustees have had many conferences with relation to how
best to proceed to carry out the authority granted by Grand Lodge, and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

to develop a general and comprehensive plan for the. growth of the
Home at Decoto which is now filled beyond its normal capacity. Since
June !st, 1921, e~ery available room for women has been occ~pied, ~nd
few rooms for men are unoccupied. This condition compelled 1mmed1ate
action toward providing for more room at the Home, and the following
plan was developed and adopted: The Grand Master and the Trustees
suggested names of reputable and well-known architects, to each of
whom the following communication was ·mailed :

This invitation was accepted by Brothers William Mooser of Doric
Lodge No. 216 ; Bernard }. Joseph of Starr King Lodge No. 344 ; J. W.
Dolliver of Oriental Lodge No. 144; Carl Werner of Excelsior Lodge
No. 166, and Perseo Righetti of Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219, with
all whom a meeting was held, and it was mutually agreed that a close
competition be had to develop a programme as indicated in our letter
set out above. Brotl,i.er Syl~ain Schnaittacher, a member of Fidelity
Lodge No. 120, and a leading member of the California Chapter of
Architects, who had successfully handled many large competitions, was
recommended by the competing architects as ·official adviser to the
Trustees. On the 8th of August Brother Schnaittacher presented a
programme, which was accepted by- the Board of Trustees and the
architects directly interested. This programme calls for the delivery
of plans on October 8. T he committee who will select the winner will
consist of the Grand Master and Trustees W ollenberg and Sherman,
together with Brother August Nordin of Balder Lodge No. 393, an
architect, who will represent the Board of T rustees and Mr. G. A. C.
Applegarth, an architect, who will represent the ·competitors. It is
expected that an architect and approved plans will have been accepted
before the annual communication of Grand Lodge, and preliminary
arrangements for the erection of the buildings will be then under way.

474

"Dear Brother:
"The time has come when there must be additional accomodations
provided for our Home at Decoto. It is purposed that such buildings
and additions as are now required shall be designed and constructed
with reference to our future needs, and that there shall be a homogeneous
plan adopted at this time.
"As Trustees for funds provided by the Fraternity for the care
and support of our less fortunate brethren, their ~idows and ch~ldr~n,
the Board is disinclined to incur the expense which would ordinarily
be required by architectual competition. It ?as been suggested, howev~r,
that many of our brethren in your profession would be glad to te~~ify
to the sincerity of their interest in and zeal for Masonry by ava1hng
themselves of this opportunity to render a substantial service to the
Craft-particularly in view of the fact that in selecting the architect
such buildings as must be erected immediately, the Board would employ
the designer of the general plan adopted. The plans would not be submitted in competition in the ordinary acceptation of that term, and it
is assumed that no member of the Craft who submitted a plan would be
averse to permitting the Board to use any special feature therein contained, even though the general plan submitted by him was not accepted.
"It is not our purpose to issue a general invitation to all architects
who are Masons, but to confine the invitation to a few who .have been
. selected not only because of the belief that they will be willing to aid in
the cause, but as weH on account of their ability and repute in their
·profession.
·"You are one of six to whom a letter similar to this is being sent.
We do not ask that you 'assist in this great undertaking without hope
of fee or reward " but we can pot promise that that hope will be reali'zed.
If you are willin~ to co-operate with us in serving the Fraternity without
any assurance that it will be to your material gain, and upon the understanding, of course, that the actual expense incurred by you will in any
event be paid by the Board, please communicate immediately with me
by mail or phone.
"Fraternally,
"MASONIC H OMES OF CALIFORNIA
"C. M. W oil enberg, President."

475

MATRONS AT DE;coTO AND COVI N A

On October 15, 1920, the resignation of Mrs. Maude E. Miller as
Matron at the Covina Home was received and accepted. Mrs. Miller
had been associated with the Home for eight years. She was dearly
loved by all the children, and her services were highly appreciated by
the Trustees. Ill-health, however, demanded that she relinquish her
duties there, and she was reluctantly permitted to retir e. She will carry
with her in whatever field she may be the best wishes of every member
of the Board, and the prayers of the children that she may be restored
to full health.
On July 1st, 1921, Miss Sallie Daingerfield resigned her position
as Matron at Decoto, for the purpose of engaging in school work-a
work she had long cherished. She had proved to be an excellent
Matron, and the Trustees released her only because the change appeared
to be for her benefit. H er successor was found in Mrs. Minnie Richardson ( Ma5onic affiliation being King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.)
CARI( OF THI( BODILY AFFLICTl(D

One of the most difficult problems that confronts your Trustees is
in the matter of applications from Lodges. in behalf of men· and women
who are afflicted with bodily disease that necessitates constant personal
attendance and medical care. These cases, as a rule, are particularly
needy and frequently are the most deserving of assistance at the hands of
the fraternity. They cannot be cared for at the Decoto Home, as the

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THEl

hospital there is not large enough to care for others than residents who
may become ill after admission to the Home. The Trustees, during
the past year, have assisted several Lodges to find suitable accommodattions for their helpless dependents, and in some instances have assisted
in a financial way, in accordance with the authority granted the Board
last year by Grand Lodge.
LIBRARY

The library at the Docoto Home is enjoyed by most of the residents,
and while the shelves are well filled, there have been few recent contributions of books. We call the attention of our brethren that it is
not only works on philosophy and Masonry tha.t are enjoyed by the
men and women at the Home. A good novel, a love story, or a thrilling
book of adventure has the effect for a time at least to bring back to the
aged ones dreams of youth-splendid dreams of "auld lang syne" that
are gone forever to them, but nevertheless that make for sunshine in
the hearts of those whose suns are nearly set. Therefore, we ask that
brethren will kindly remember the Home library and send books which
they have most enjoyed.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

477

Trustees, to provide for the maintenance of the Homes and for such
improvements as are then in progress or contemplated for the immediate future, the surplus shall be by them allocated to the Endowment
Fund."
The purpose of this change is to enable us to use for building purposes all funds not needed for maintenance. At present, under the provisions of section 41, we must allocate one-half of the fund received to
maintenance and one-half to building. Any surplus in either fund goes
to the Endowment Fund. If there is a deficit in one fund and a surplus
in the other, we can not now apply the surplus to wipe out the deficit
but must appeal to Grand Lodge for financial assistance.
We believe that the adoption of this amendment will hasten the
time when we can come to Grand 'Lodge with a recommendation that
the fifty-cent 'Building Fund tax be repealed, thus reducing the burden
on the Lodges.
We are also recommending that the per capita tax on the Lodges
be twenty-five cents, a reduction of ten cents over last year. This makes
a total reduction of seventy-five cents in the eighteen months the new
law has been in force.

FINANCl(S 01' THI\ HOMl(S

The financial statement which is a part of this report indicates
clearly that the method adopted last year of raising funds £or the
support of the Homes is a success.
The building program at Decoto will call for about $250,000, and
this amount will be in the Building Fund hy the time it is needed.
Covina will need additional buildings for the children next year, as
we are rapidly reaching the limit of the present accomodations. fo
order that we may meet this condition we recommend that subdivision
1st of s~ction 41 of the Constitution be changed to read as follows:
"1st. For every degree it shall have conferred during the year, the
sum of one dollar; and in addition thereto, the sum of $20.00 for the
use and benefit of the Masonic Homes of California, for every candidate
of its own Lodge upon whom it shall have conferred the first degree
and for every member elected for affiliation. upon a dimit, or cer.tificate
of standing or withdrawal, from a Lodge of a jurisdiction other than
California. The contributions for the use and benefit of the Masonic
Homes shall be by the Lodge collected from the petitioners at the
time of ·the receipt of their petitions and transmitted to the Grand
Secretary on the first day of November, February, May, and August
of each year; no remittance shall be made for account of any petitioner
until he shall have received the first degree; and immediately upon
receipt thereof the Grand Secretary shall pay the same over to the
Grand Treasurer to be by him held subject to the order of the Trustees
for the use and benefit of the Homes. When the amount thus collected
and so held shall be more than sufficient, in the judgment of the

PRINTING 01' SUMMARIZED RiPORT

Recognizing the value of publicity, and believing that the members
of the fraternity are entitled to be fully informed with regard to the
work of the Homes, we would recommend that a . condensed summary
of this report be printed, together with the regulations for admission,
and illustrated with views of both Homes, and that said report be
distributed to each member of the Fraternity.
REQUEST THAT BRl(THRl(N VI SIT THI\ HOMl(S

It is the desire e.nd hope of the Board that every member in attendance at Grand Lodge will visit the Decoto Home before returning
to their respective Lodges. Only in that way may the brethren personally know of the work being done for our dependent brethren and their
widows and mothers. We feel sure that if every Mason in California
could visit the Homes, talk to the residents, greet their brethren there,
their widows and mothers, they would enthusiastically spread the word
throughout the jurisdiction that we have in the two Homes real monuments to the Masonic doctrine of relief ; and still ·more important, that
the visitors would return to their homes with · a high resolve to
encourage those who have been specially blessed with ·large, fortunes, to
devote a part thereof to the maintenance and further improvements of'
the Masonic Homes of California.

478

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GIFTS TO ENDOWMENT FUND

During the year the following gifts to the Endowment Fund have
been received :
. W. 0. Campbell, Australia..$ 2.00
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.. 75.00
San Jacinto, Lodge No. 338.. 10.00
Pasadena Lodge No. 272.... 599.00
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.... 5.00
Lancaster Lodge No. 437.... 12.00
Lancaster Lodge No. 437.... 750.00
Ocean Park Lodge No.369 .. 25.00
W. L. Irwin, Naval No. 87.. 1.00
R. T. Rolph·, Mission No. 169 25.00
]. Orr, Solano No. 229........ 100.00
Solano Lodge No. 229~....... 5.00
Cash ........................................ 1.00
Hanford Lodge No. 279.... 243.00
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:... 18.50
Oxnard Lodge No. 341........ 28.50
E. S. Heller, Fidelity No. 120 50.00
M. Johnson, Balder No. 393 7.70
H. Klein, Temblor No. 477.. 10.00
Kennett Lodge No. 456...... 50.00
McCloud Lodge No. 430.... 51.41
James Keith, Calaveras
No. 78................................ 10.00
San Francisco Lodge of
Perfection ...................... 12.50
W . F. Venard, Coalinga
No. 587 ..,......................... 51.00
Mosaic Lodge No. 218........ 2.00
Harry McComb, West
Lake No. 392................ 100.00
Oceanside Lodge No. 381.... 15.00
L. G. Daniels, Covina No.
334 ..................................$ 22.94
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 1,328.00

Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
Mc Cloud Lodge No. 430....
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224
Pomona Lodge No. 246....
Burlingame Lodge No.
400 .:................................
G. W. Kennett, Balder
N·o. 393 ........................
Santa Monica Lodge
No. 307 ..........•.............
S. L. Chamberlain, Mission 169 ........................
Evergreen Lodge No.
259 ..................................
San Dimas Lodge No. 428
Welcome Lodge No. 255....
San Jose Lodge No. 10....
Highland Park Lodge
No. 382 ........................
Estate Geo. S. Neubauer..
Temblor Lodge No. 477..
Whittier Lodge No. 323....
W. D. Drant, Temblor
No. 477 ..........................
San Diego Lodge No. 35 ..
Calaveras Lodge No. 78.:..
F . J. Bonner; Perris No.
411 ..................................
Galt Lodge No. 267............
Mosaic Lodge No. 218....
San Buenaventura No.214
Robert Knighten, Cal. ·
No. 1 ..............................
Eden Lodge No. 113........

250.00
36.00
10.00
10.00
37.00
2.50
6.00.
100.00
114.00
75.00
16.90
1.00
30.00
500.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
34.00
11.00

479

San Jose Sciots .......................................................................................... 415.87
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection .................................................... 750.00
San Francisco Sciots ......,.....................................................:................. . 300.00
Patrops Association of Southern California .................................... 1,500.00
Whittier Lodge No. 323 ..................,....................................................... 300.00
Frank A. Brownlee and Thos. Wilson, a Powers movie
machine and full equipment.
B. R. Halloway and brethren of Van N uys Lodge No. 450, 230
White Leghorn chickens.
Jinnistan Grotto, Los Angeles, baseball outfit.
Golden State Lodge No. 358 ....................................................~ ...........
26.00
Onisbo Chapter 0 . E. $., 15 vols. "Children's Hour" and............
15.00
W .T. Bond, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225..................................._, ...•
25.00
Banquet Committee Union Lodge No. 58...........................................
6.60
]. F. Cordes, Ramona Lodge No. 457................................................
1.00
The report of the superintendent of Covina Home contains fu~ther
details of gifts to the children.
COMMENDATION

We feel that we cannot close this report without calling attention
to the cheerful response Past Grand Masters Adams and Weller always
have made when the Board has needed legal advice. Hardly a week
goes by but some question arises or legal papers require to be drawn,
and without hesitancy we have handed the work over to one of these
good brethren. This work has always been done without fee or co~t
of any kind to the Homes. Brothers Warren E. Libby, John W. Gwilt
and other good attorneys have also rendered appreciated services without
fee, for which we extend our thanks.
RECOMMENDATIONS

1.00
12.00
9.00
10.00
4.00
6.00

OTHER GIFTS

Tht I-Tomes have also received gifts for various purposes, as
follows:
Dr. •Flora Smith, Grand Amaranth ......................................................$1,327.50
Fresno Shrine class ............................. ..................................................
20.50
San Francisco Scottish Rite Bodies.....................:................................ 222.50
Square. and Compass Players................................................................ 427.69

1. That the per capita tax be fixed at twenty-five cents.
2. That section 41 of the Constitution be amended as set out above.
3. That a summary of this report, together with the rules for
admission to the Homes, be caused to be printed by the Grand Secretary, and copies be forwarded to each Lodge in sufficient number for
every member in the jurisdiction.
c. M. WOLLJ!NBJ!RG,

J.B. GIST,
CHAS. G. JOHNSON,

RoBrl! E. DILL.

s. E. BURKI!,

WM. A. SHJ!RMAN,

A.

s. CRITJ!S,

Trustees.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

480

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SECRETARY'S REPORT
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR ENDING
JULY 31, 1921.

Revenue

DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENSE BY DETAIL
AUGUST 1, 1920 TO JULY 31, 1921

Maintenance

Maintenance Fund ............................,...
Farm Produce Sales Decoto..............
Farm Produce Sales Covina ............
Decoto Farm Rent .............:..................
Decoto Receipts Maintenance ............
Covina Receipts Maintenance ..........
Salvage ....................................................
Interest ....................................................
Interest Endowment Fund ................

$191,139.67
8,973.16
3,428.08
250.00
2,068.39
2,153.30
1.10
2,773.70
11,718.18

Total revenue .....:..,.......................

$222,505.58

Disbursements
Maintenance Decoto ............................ $35,113'.34
Covina ............................ 21,539.32

56,652.66

481

Decoto

Covina

Total

Groceries ....................................................$ 5,066.19 $ 2,001.26 $ 7,067.45
5,600.25
1,157.04
Meats ............................................................ 4,43321
581.23
119.28
Fish .....................:..........................................
461.95
1,716.61
418,09
Provisions (cured and smoked meat) 1,298.52
2,655.73
Fruit and vegetables ................................ 1,903.96
751.77
3,819.78
10,675.20
Butter, milk'and eggs ................................ 6,855.42
2,828.29
Bakers supplies .......................................... 1,555.28
1,273.01
846.40
280.92
565.48
Medical supplies and drugs ....................
1,978.29
1,006.07
Hospital expense ......................................
972.22
17.42
Dental expense .......................,..................
17.42
4,500.13
2,752.09
Clothing, including re!1air, etc. .............. 1,748.04
1,216.49
1.550.84
Shoes including repair, -etc: ......................
334.35
299.89
596.26
Bedding ........................................................
296.37
703.74
703.74
School supplies and instruction ..........

Kitchen and Dining R oom
Farm : Decoto ........................................ . 7,018.91
Covina ........................................ 5,669.60

12,688.51

Laundry: Decoto ..................................
Covina ............................;.....

2,093.22
1,085.89

3,179.11

Pay-Roll: Decoto ..................................
Covina ..................................

7,341.67
7,285.86

14,627.53

General expense : Decoto .................. 15,610.06
Covina .................. 5,231.25

20,841.31

Trustees traveling expense ................
Funeral expense ....................................
Accounting and general office ............
Headstone account ................................
Common expense ..................................
Special Rule No. 16 expense ..............
Pensions ..................................................
Taxes .................................. ........:...........
Insurance ................................................
Building repairs ....................................

1,233.11
531.72
1,363.50
1,527.31
110.30
306.00
300.00
1,059.78
466.55
465.78

Balance ·Of revenue over expense

102.54
Repairs and maintenance ........................
Expense ......................................................
437.93
Miscellaneous expense ............................ 2,230.70
Pay-roll ........................:..........,.................... 6,823.76

30.63
357.06
1,959.61
3,392.59

133.17
794.99
4,190.31
10,216.35

Total maintenance ............................$35,113.34 $21,539.32 $ 56,652.66

Farm
46.25 $ 211.40 $
257.65
Tools and equipment ........................:.....$
213.87
267.46
53.59
Seeds ............................................................
1,858.87
5,227.94
Feed .............................................................. 3,369.07
1,636.46
General expenses, inc. occasional labor 1,845.00
3,481.46
1,749.00
3,454.00
Pay-roll ...............................:........................ 1,705.00
Total farm ···················:·····.................$ 7,018.91 $ 5,669.60 $ 12,688.51

Laundry
Expense ......................................................$ 773.22 $
Pay-roll ...................................................... 1,320.00

350.89 $ 1,124.11
735.00
1,955.00

Total laundry ....................................$ 2,()C)3.22 $ 1,085.89 $ 3,179.11

$ 115,353.17

Pay-Roll
(Other than Farm, Laundry and
Maintenance)

$ 107,152.41

Wages .......:...................:..............................$ 3,950.00 $ 3,558.86 $ 7,508.86
Salaries .......................................................... 3,391.67
3,727.00
6,118.67
Total pay-roll ......................................$ 7,341.67 $ 7,285.86 $ 14,627.53

PROCBEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total
Covina
}.faintenance
IJecoto
General Expense
Light, heat, power and water................$ 8,313.87 $ 2,303.01 $ 10,616.88
2,832.45
871.55
Plant repairs and maintenance .............. 1,960.90
1,721.30
191.30
Freight and express ................................ 1,530.00
126.29
119.46
Traveling expense ....................................
6.83
522.16
227.04
Printing and office supplies ....................
295.12
1,179.53
953.38
Furniture and equipment ........................
226.15
597.54
235.45
Telephone and telegraph ........................
362.09
3,162.29
247.19
Miscellaneous ............................................ 2,915.10
82.87
82.87
Jpsurance ....................................................

CASH Rl!Cl!IPTS AND DISBURSl!Ml!NTS TO

482

---

Total general expense ......................$15,610.06 $ 5,231.25 $ 20,841.31
Grand total Home expenditures....$67,177.20 $40,811.92 $107,989.12
Common Expense
·
465.78
Building repairs ........................................
1,233.11
Trustees expense ........................................
300.00
Pensions ..................................•...................
1,059.78
Taxes ............................................................
1,363.50
Accounting ..................................................
110.30
Common expense ......................................
466.55
Insurance ....................................................
Total common expense ....................

$ 4,999.02

Grand total expenditures ................$67,177.~ $4o,811.92 $112,988.14
Revenue
Maintenance ................................................$ 2,068.39 $ 2,153.30 $ 4,221.69
12,401.24
3,428.08
Farm produce sales ...........•...................... 8,?73.16
250.00
Farm rent-Decoto ········-························
250.00
2,773.70"
1,029.63
Interest ........................................................ 1,744.07
1.10
Salvage ........................................................
1.10
Total revenue ....................................$13,036.72 $ 6,611.01 $ 19.647.73"
Summary of Expenditures
Maintenance ................................................$35,113.34 $21,539.32 $ 56,652.66
12,688.51
5,669.60
Farm ·····················-'····································· 7,018.91
3,179.11
1,085.89
Laundry ............_.......................................... 2,093.22
14,627.53
7,285.86
Pay-roll ........................................................ 7,341.67
20,841.31
5,23125
General expense ·····························-········· 15,610.06
4,999.02
Common expense ...................................... _ _ __
Grand total of all expenditures ....$67,177.20 $40,811.92 $112,988.14
19,647.73
6,611.01
Home revenue ............................................ 13,036.72
Net Home expense .............,............$54,268.52 $34,200.91 $ 93,468.45

JULY 31,

483

1921.

Cash on hand August 1st, 19~.... ..............................

$ 70,836.79

Receipts
Grand Lodge account Building Fund ....................$ 38,10).00
Grand Lodge account Maintenance Fund ............ 76,200.00
Grand Council, account Building Fund ................ 1,000.00
Grand Chapter, account Building Fund ................ 3,500.00
Home Tax, account Building Fund ........................ 105,800.00
Home Tax, account Maintenance Fund ................ 105,800.00
Subordinate Lodges Maintenance:
Decoto ...................................................................... 2,068.39
Covina ············································-··············-········ 2,153.30
Farm produce sales, Decoto .................................... 1,250.26
Farm produce sales, Covina ......................................
266.36
Permanent endowment fund ...................................... 10,984.64
Special Home fund ...................................................... 1,249.08
Special Rule No. 16 ...................................................... 3,745.71
Maintenance Fund Endowment interest.:................ 11,340.78
Scholarship account ...................................................... 1,595.92
Entertainment account ..........................:..................... 8,360.16
Residents Deposits ...............................:........................ 6,433.68
Funeral expense refund ..............................................
760.03
Headstone account ......................................................
100.00
Bank interest .................................................................. 1,849.94
Furniture sold ................................................................
50.00
Farm rent, Decoto ......................•.................................
250.00
Miscellaneous maintenance ........................................ 7,488.00
Maintenance, U. S. Treasury certificates .............. 20,000.00
1.10
Salvage ............................................................................
Trustees expense refund ............................................
46.52 $410,393.87

$481,230.66
IJisbur semen ts
Maintenance ....................................................................$103,555.43
Building .......................................................................... 27,851.60
U. S. Treasury certificates ........................................ 204,125.10
Residents withdrawals ................................................. 4,022.83
Scholarship account ...................................................... 1,245.15
Special Rule No. 16......................................................... 6,503.19
Entertainment account ................................................ 4,595.40
Funeral expense ............................................................
831.75
Headstone account ......................................................
410.00
Furniture and equipment ............................................ 1,669.26

I
'J

;s&
"""°'
'--l ;_

00 """

-

11

i

~

"""

...... CJ\ CJ\ \0 \0

.w

~~\zS\zS~$~to;

§

tn

8~~ i?:l ~R3~~t;

~
-(fl

00

~
'J
"'

~

·~

'l-'l;E!:~-.,..-....o,·"'Q

-(fl

~
'N

-(fl

~

gs

~

~

'J
"'

~

$

!
:

::i::

l'i

.....

NNNIO

-!:l~~ %
N.,_.<.il"""-l

8~8~

j

IC,_.
'J-

w"'

o:...i
<no

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
SUMMARY CASH STATEMENT BY FUNDS

Balances
Aug. I, 1920
General Fund Maintenance---------·-------------------$ 36,423.40
836.99
General Building Fund.~---------------------------Permanent Endowment Fund__________________ 6,738.78
Special Rule No. 16-----·--····--···------····-· 14,135.15
Residents' personal deposits----·---~-------- 3,3CXS.22
Entertainment Fiind.......---"------- - - 3,743.02
Special Home Fund..·-------·-------··-···-··-···- 2,676.63
Scholarship Fund·-------------···-··---------- 2,676.60
Petty cash-Decoto____________________________________
250.00
Petty cash-Covina....................·-···-··---··---·--··-·
50.00

Receipts

Total

Disbursed

$258,411.77
122,160.00
113,135.43
3,847.51
6,433.68
8,296.14
1,124.08
1,598.42

$270,433.56
87,861.60
111,848.29
6,702.44
4,023.03
5,293.68
2,625.90
1,247.65

450.00

$294,835.17
122,996.99
119,874.21
17,982.66
9,739.90
12,039.16
3,800.71
4,275.02
250.00
500.00

Totals ···~···-·-·····-··----···-···-------$ 70,836.79

$515,457.03

$586,293.82

$490,036.21

Balances
July 31, 1921
$ 24,401.61
35,135.39
8,025.92
11,280.22
~
>
u,716.87
§
6,745.48
1,174.75
3,027.37 , ti
250.00
~
500.00
0

b
'zJ

$ 96,257.61

t"

- ~

SUMMARY OF BONDS BY FUNDS

Balances
Aug. 1, 1920
Permanent Endowment Fund-····················-········-$280,862.50
General Fund-Maintenance...._____ ____ 10,000.00
····-··········---General Fund- Building
Special Home Fund..._.~
20,000.00
300.00
Special Rule No. 16.;______
Totals - - -···-··--····--··-- - - --- - - - - -$311,162.50

r.;

Received
Total
and Purchased
$410,212.50
$129,350.00
168,000.00
158,000.00
65,000.00
65,000.00
3,000.00
23,000.00
21,100.00
21,400.00

Sales and
Redeemed
$111,000.00
20,000.00

100.00

On hand
July 31, 1921
$299,212.50
148,000.00
65,000.00
23,000.00
21,300.00

$687,612.50

$131,100.00

$556,512.50

$376,450.00

:ll

z

>

00
..,,.
"""

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

486

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BALANct SHEET, AUGUST 1, 1921
Cash ..........................................................
$ 96,257.61
Bonds:
Permanent Endowment Fund ....$299,212.50
Special Home Fund ........,........... 23,000.00
Special Rule No. 16 .................... 21,300.00
Maintenance Fund ........................ 148,000.00
Building Fund ................................ 65,000.00
556,512.50
Real Estate:
Decato .............................................. 45,469.90
Covina .............................................. 21,800.00
Farm Investment, Decato ............ 8,000.00
Sundry Real Estate Investment.. 1,279.22
76,549.12

Liabilities

Claims Payable ··························'·················-····-...........$ 7,633.89
Permanent Endowment Fund ........._. ........................ 289,082.61
Special Home Fund ...................................................... 23,766.00
Building Fund .............................................................. 239,284.il
Residents Personal deposits ...................................... 5,716.87
Special Rule No. 16 .............,........................................ 11,280.22
Special Rule No. 16 Securities ............................ 21,300.00
Enter.tainment account .............................................. 6,745.48
Scholarship account ...................................................... 3,027.37
· Bond Premium and Discount .....................:............ 19,102.06

Buildings:
Decato Home ..............:................... 276,536.97
Covina Home .................................. 149,468.02
Power Plant and Laundry, Decato....
Improvements :
Deco to .............................................. 31,664.26
Covina .............................................. 7,496.36

446,004.99
38,788.00

$685,466.91

$685,466.91

Deco to
Covina.
Cost of maintaining Homes for the year 1920-1921....$67,177.20 $40,811.92
70.3
Average number residents for the year....................
145
Average cost per month to operate Homes ............ 6,348.10
3,400.91
200.75
111.81
Average cost per day to operate Homes......................
580.54
Average cost per resident per year.................................. 525.36
43.78
Average cost per month per resident ..........................
48.38
Cost per day per resident ................................................
1.439
1.59
15Average number employes ........................ ................
22.6Homes received revenue ........................................ 12,972.70
6,611.01

5,406.00
135.00
5,541.00

Furniture and Fixtures:
Decato .............................................. 16,336.46
7,398.79
Covina

From subordinate Lodges for maintenance, farm produce sales,
interest, etc., which is not included in the per-capita cost; also the
common expense of $4,999.02, which includes building repairs, Trustees
.expense, accounting, taxes, insurance, etc., not included.

23,735.25

Total assets ....................................

Balance net worth ..............................................

PER CAPITA COSTS

43,945.95

Automobile ..............................................

$626,938.61

Balance as above

39,160.62

Stores and Supplies :
Decato
Covina

Total liabilities

Capital Account
Capital account, August 1st, 1920 ..........................$578,31~.50
Balance revenue over expense ................................ 107,152.41

Building Equipment :
Deco to .............................................. 37,962.91
Covina .............................................. 5,983.04
Farm Equipment :
Decato ..............................................
Covina ..............................................

487

2,217.41
1,421.07
3,638.48
2,272.00
1,312,405.52

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANB LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

P!lRMANJlNT l\NDOWMJ,;NT FUND TO JULY 31, 1921
Cash on Hand August 1, 1920 ....•........................................,..............$ 6,738.78
Re_ceipts
Donations ·····-·······'···························-··'·························$ 3,156.09
· Bequests ········'··································································· 3,180.25
Sundry Receipts ............................................................ 1,710.60 ·
City of Santa Barbara Bond redeemed................... 1,000.00
$48,850.00 Third U. S. Liberty Bonds .................. 44,209.24
59,800.00 Fifth U. S. Liberty Bonds .................. 59,879.25

Total receipts ........................................................

$113,135.43

Total available ......................................................
$119,874.21
Disbursements
$ 11,000.00 Third U. S. Liberty Bonds ........•.......$ 9,697.50
117,000.00 Fourth U. S. Liberty Bonds ................ 102,150.79
Total disbursements .............................................

$111,848.29

Balance ...:................................................................
$ 8,025.92
Composition of Endowment Fund
Cash Humboldt Savings Bank ................................$ 7,566.14
Cash Anglo California Trust Co. ..........................
459.78
City of Santa Barbara 4Y,o/o Water Bonds .......... 11,287.50
City of Santa Barbara 4Y,o/o Municipal Imp. Bonds 3,000.00
City and County of S. F. 5% City Hall Bonds.... 1,000.00
City and County of San Francisco 5% Bonds .... 1,000.00
City and County of San Francisco 4Y,o/o Water.... 12,000.00
City of Richmond 5% Bonds...................................... 5,000.00
City of Upland 6% Bonds ........................................ 3,125.00
City of Ashland 5% Water Bonds .......................... 9,000.00
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. 5% Bonds...... 16,000.00
Cal. Gas & Electric Corp. 5% Bonds........................ 10,000.00

489

Special Home Fund
Cash on Hand August 1, 1920............................................................$ 2,676.63
Receipts
Bank ·Interest .........................
$
67.83
Bond Interest ................................................................ 1,056.25
A . . . . . . . .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . .

Total receipts ..........................................................

$ 1,124.08

Total available ......................................................

$ 3,800.71

Disbursements
Bought $3,000 Third Liberty Loan ..:............- ........$ 2,591.25
Accrued interest ......................................................
34.71

Total disbursements ........:...................................

$ 2,625.96

Cash in Humboldt Savings Bank......................

$ 1,174.75

Composition of Special Home Fund.
Cash Humboldt Savings Bank.....,..............................$ 1,174.75
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 5% Bonds...................... 5,000.00
Los Angeles Railway Co. 5% Bonds........................ 5,000.00
California Gas & Electric Corp. 5%.....,.................. 9,000.00
Third 4~ o/o Liberty Loan Bonds.............................. 4,000.00

$ 24,174.75
Less Discount on Bonds Purchased..................
408.75
Total Special Ho.me Fund, July 31, 1921........

$ 23,766.00 .

l\NTl!RTAINMl\NT FUND

Cash on Hand August 1, 1920.............................................................$ 3,743.02
Receipts ...............................,............................................$ 8,296.14
Disbursements ................................................................ 5,293.68

$ 79,438.42
$ 3,002.46

First 4 ~% Liberty Loan Bonds Converted............$ 11,000.00
Second 4~ o/o Liberty Loan Bonds Converted........ 69,000.00
Third 4~ o/o Liberty Loan Bonds Converted.......... 11,000.00
Fourth 4~ o/o Liberty Loan Bonds .Converted...... 136,800.00

Total Cash on Hand August 31, 1921................

Total U. S. Government Bonds..........................$227,800.00
Less discount on bonds bought and sold ................ 18,155.81

$a)CJ,644.19
Permanent Endowment Fund July 31, 1921....

$289,082.61

$ 6,745.48

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GENERAL CONDITIONS AT DECOTO HOME
During the past year there have been admitted to the Home
22 men and 13 women; 25 have passed to their last reward. There
are now at the Home 87 men and 59 women.
Every room in the women's department is now occupied, and
as admissions can only be made as vacancies occur, the need for
additional room is most urgent to provide for those now on the
waiting list. ·
The health of the Home has been good with the exception of
th.ose who are becoming infirm and helpless. Increased accommodations are also needed at the Coleman Hospital. It was originally
built for 15 beds and is now caring for 11 men and 12 women.
A number of the Brethren continue to contribute to the welfare of the Home by their services in performing light duties of
various kinds in keeping with their strength.
The women residents attend to the making, mending and marking of hoitsehold .linen and have taken charge of not only their own
rooms but also th.e halls, stairways, wash rooms and other parts of
the main building and annex. They also assist in work con~ected
with the dining rooms and at the hospital.
Special attention is paid to the social features of the Home and
all the residents are afforded all the diversion necessary.
Many entertainments have been given for the pleasure and
benefit of the members of the family by Lodges, members of Lodges
and t~eir ladies. All holidays have been observed with appropriate
exercises.
The following is a list of those· who have contributed to our
enjoyment.
October 23, the Officers of the Grand Commandery, K. T.,
visited the Home.
October 23, Third Degree by Eden Lodge No. 113.
October 30, Naval Lodge No. 87 conferred the First Degree• .
Work was illustrated by stereopticon pictures.
February 4, musical entertainment given by San Jose Pyramid
of Sciots. Refreshmen.ts.
April 10, the students of Mills College entertained with Easter
carols and recitations. Candy.
·
May 1 marked the opening of the Chautauqua at Centerville.
Thirty members of the Home family attended daily until its close
on May 6.
May 14, Second Degree conferred by Eucalyptus Lodge No.
243.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

491

May 21, a smoker was given by Balder Lodge N o. 393. Third
Degree.
May 28, Third Degree conferred by the Masters and Wardens
Association of Sacramento, and on May 29, accompanied by their
ladies, gave an entertainment in the Temple. Candy and cigars.
June 11, an entertainment given by Starr King Lodge No. 344.
Moving pictures, vocal and instrumental music. Candy and cigars.
June 12, a musical entertainment by Durant Lodge No. 268.
June 18, Fruitvale Lodge N o. 336 and ladies gave a luncheon
in the Grove, followed by a negro minstrel show.
June 25, the Past Matrons and Past Patrons, 0 . E. S. of Santa
Clara county. Musical program and drill team.
July 16, a visit of the Grand Matron and officers of the Eastern
Star, accompanied by the East Bay Matrons Association. Luncheon was had in the Grove and a musical entertainment given in the
Temple.
July 30, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478 conferred the First
Degree in the afternoon and provided a musical concert in the
evening..
August 15, Jewel Lodge N o. 374. Band concert on the Home
grounds.
August 16, Live Oak Lodge No. 61 and ladies gave a luncheon
in the Grove and a musical and literary program in the evening.
·
August 21 , vocal and instrumental music given in the afternoon
by Charter Rock Lodge No. 41.0 and their ladies.
.
August 27, a program of moving pictures, vocal and instrumental music given by Starr King Lodge No. 344. Cigars and candy.
September 9, DeMolay Order for Boys, Alameda Chapter, conferred the First and Second Degrees.
DONATIONS TO m:coTo HOM:E.

Donor

Article
East Bay Matrons Association ........ Wicker furnitu re for ladies' sittingroom-1 table, 1 settee, 2 chairs,
2 rockers, I flower stand, 1 lam p
stand, 1 plate-glass table top.
John R. Dollerup .................................. 1 phonograph, 100 records.
J. S. Cannon ........,................................. 50 vols. miscellaneous books, 6
quilts, 25 lbs. candy.
Masters and Wardens Association
of Sacramento ...................................• 90 packages cigars, 70· boxes candy.
Alameda County Free Library .....-.57 vols. miscellaneous books.

492

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donor
Article
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336.........••....,.. 3 ivory billiard balls, 100 cigars, 65
boxes candy.
Calif. Almond Growers Exchange.• 100 lbs. almonds.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19...,_•..•._50 jars fruit, jelly, etc.
San Francisco Commandery, No.
41, K. T ............................................... 1 10-foot flag, 1 6-foot flag.
W. A. Stepenson.................................. 1 package magazines.
Clarence L. Fraser........................--3 crates of table grapes.
John Dixon ....;............,.......................... 2 packages of clothing.
Union· League Club of S. F ....•••...- ... 20 packs of playing cards.
James M. Treat.............................- ..... 2 vols. fiction.
Eden Lodge No. 113.......................... 100 cigars, 65 boxes candy.
Dr. C. H. Miller.................................. 5 canes.
Naval Lodge No. 87............................ 100 cigars, 70 boxes candy.
Mrs. J. C. Sims ...................................... 1 package clothing.
Dr. Samuel Shapiro..................- •.•. 9 packages tooth powder.
Mrs. A. B. McMahan .......................... 1 package silk quilt squares.
Los Gatos Chapter No. 128, O.E .S ... 31 vols. miscellaneous books.
Creger's Pharmacy .............................. 144 tubes tooth powder.
Pajaro Lodge No. 110..................-.10 boxes apples.
Orient Chapter No. 177, 0. E. S .....45 jars fruit, jelly; etc., 15 large
cakes.
East Bay Matrons Association ........ 2 large Christmas cakes,
Mill Valley Chapter 219, 0 .E.S .._ ..43 jars fruit, jelly, etc.
A. Lebooich ..................................--100 cigars.
·
E. B. Maaon ............................................1 package clothing.
W. L. Pattiam......;............................... 1 package clothing.
San Jose Pyramid of Sciots.............. Hot chocolate, candy, cake, cigars.
Charles F. Thomas .............................. ! pkg. magazines and periodicals.
Fred W. W etmore..............................40 lbs candy.
Oriental Lodge No. 144.................... 24 hats, 30 lbs. sausage.
Arthur Joel ............................................2 package tics, 4 pairs shoes, 1
package magazines.
Eucalyptus Lodges No. 243 .............. 100 cigars, 65 packages tandy.
L. H. Rockwell ..................................-1 package magazines.
Balder Lodge No. . 393.................._.... 150 cigars, 70 boxes candy.
Mrs. W. S. Alexander........................ I large box of clothing.
Starr King Lodge No. 344................. 150 cigars, 35 lbs. candy,
L. M. Sells ........................................_ I pail candy.
East Bay Matrons Association ........ 26 gingham aprons
Miramar Chapter No~ 45, O.E.S ..... 3 quilts.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 487...... 100 cigars, 65 boxes candy.
Golden Gate Commanderr No. 16,
K. T ........................~..............~.............. l 15-foot flag.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

493

Donor
.Article
Turlock Lodge No. 395 ...................... 8 crates cantaloupes, 30 watermelons.
Mrs. Fred R. Hamilton ..............- ... 5 lb. box candy.
A. Mainzer ......................;........._ ....... 2 boxes candy.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61................._ lOO cigars, 30 lbs. candy.
Masters and Past Ma~ters Association Alameda and Contra Costa 1 year's subscription to 8 monthly
Counties .............................................. and weekly periodicals.
E. P. Ramsay ........................................ ! year's s\Jbscription to 2 copies of
The Masonic Digest.
California Nursery Co ......................... I large · Christmas tree.
B. Pasquale & Co............................... 1 Masonic flag.
CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT CASH DONATIONS 1920.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Abell ..........................146...;....$ 5.00 Calaveras .................. 78........ 10.00
Acorn ........................494........ 20.00 Calexico ....................412.~...... 25.00
Alameda ..................167........ 10.00 California ................ !........ 50.00
Alcatraz ..................244........ 25.00 Center ......................465........ 5.00
Alamo ......................122........ 10.00 Charter Rock ..........410........ 25.00
Alisa! ........................321........ 5.00 Chico ........................111........ 10.00
Alpha ........................431........ 15.00 Chino Valley............427........ 6.00
Alturas ......................248........ 10.00 Clay ..........................101........ 20.00
Amador '.................... 65 ........ 10.00 Clinton ...................... 119.,...... 25.00
Amity ........................370........ 25.00 Clear Lake................ 183........ 10.00
Anaheim ..................207........ 50.00 Colusa ......................240........ 10.00
Apollo ............ ~ .........394........ 15.00 Concord ..................,.117........ ·20.00
Artesia ......................377........ 10.00 Coalinga ..................387........ 10.00
Argonaut ..................461 ........ 20.00 Coachella ................476.......: 5.00
Arcata ...................... 106........ 20.00 Confidence ..............203........ 5.00
, Ashlar ......................306........ 10.00 Corona ......................324........ 50.00
Atascadero .........•....293 ........ 10.00. Corinthian ................ 9 ........ 10.00
Bakersfield .........~....224........ 25.00 Covina ......................334........ . 5.00
Balder ......................393........ 20.00 Coronado ..................441........ 10.00
Bay View ................401........ 20.00 ·Corcoran ..................490........ 20.50
Bear Mountain........ 76......., 10.00 Curtis ........................ 140........ 5.00
Benicia ...................... 5........ 10.00 Crockett ..................139........ 50.00
Berkeley ..................363........ 10.00 Dinuba ......................385........ 10.00
Blackmer ..................442........ 15.00 Delanoi ......................309........ 25.00
Blythe .................... ~.473 ........ 30.00 Doric .............:...;......216........ 25.00
Brooklyn ..................225 ........ 15.00 Downey .......·.............220........ 10.00
Bethlehem ..............453........ 10.00 Drytown ..................174........ 25.00
Buena Park..............357.....:.. 20.00 Dunsmuir ................297........ 25.00
Burlingame ..............400........ 20.00 . Dl]rant ......................268........ 10.00
Buckeye ....................195........ 10.00 East Gate ..................290........ 50.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

494

Lodge

No.

Amt.

East Belt ..................391........ 10.00
Eden ..:.......................113........ 5.00
Elysian ....................418........ 44.00
Emmanuel ................318........ 10.00
Enterprise ................ 70........ 5.00
Eucalyptus ..............243........ 25.00
Eureka ...................... 16........ 2.50
Evergreen ................259......... 10.00
Excelsior .................. 166........ 25.00
Exeter ......................424........ 25.00
Evening Star ............186........ 5.00
Fairmount ................435 ........ 10.00
Fidelity ....................120........ 25.00
Fillmore ....................379........100.00
Francis Drake..........376........ 10.00
Franklin .................. 143....... 25.00
Friendship ................210........ 10.00
Fruitvale ..................336........ 10.00
Forest ...................... 66........ 5.00
Fraternity ................399........ 20.DO
Fresno ......................247........ 25.00
Galt ............................267 ........ 10.00
Garvanza ....:.............402 ........ 10.00
Gold Hill .................. 32........ 10.00
Golden Gate.............. 30........ 25.00
Golden W est ............455 ........ 20.00
Hammerton ..,.........433........ 10.00
Hanford ....................279........ 10.00
Hawaiian .................. 21........ 50.0.0
Henry S. Orme......458........ 20.00
Hermann .................. 127........ IS.OD
Hills Ferry ..............236........ 37.0D
Hesperian ................264........ 5.00
Highland Park........382 ........ 10.00
Hiram ...................... 43........ 5.00
Hollywood ..............355 ......:. 10.00
Honolulu ..................409........ 50.00
Howard .................... 96........ 10.00
Holtville ..................425........ 37.50
Hollenbeck ..............319........ 20.00
Humboldt ................ 79 ........ 20.00
Huntington Beach..380........ 10.00
Hartley .................... 199........ 17.71

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Amt.

Inglewood ~ ...............421........ 10.00
Illinoistown ............ 51........ 10.00
Imperial ..................390........ 38.00
Ione .......................... 80......... 5.00
J ewe! ........................374........ .5.00
Keith ........................187.......• 10.00
Kennett ....................456........ 10.00
Keystone ...:.............. 161........ 5.00
King David's............209........ 10.00
King Solomon's ......260........ 25.00
La Fayette................126........ 5.00
Las Palmas ..............366........ 15.00
Lassen ...................... 149........ 15.00
Le Progres De
L'Oceanie ............371........ 25.00
Libertas ....................466........ 20.00
Liberty ......................299 ........ 10.00
Lincoln ....................470........ 10.00
Live Oak .................. 61........ 100.00
Lexington ................ 104........ 25.00
Lompoc ....................262........ 10.00
Long Beach ..............327........ SD.00
La Farfaite Union.. 17........ 2D.OO
Los Angeles ............ 42...;.... 40.0D
I.:bs Banos ................312........ 10.00
Los Gatos ................292........ 10.00
Madison .................... 23........ 5.00
Magnolia ..................242........ 5.00
Maricopa ..................434........ IS.OD
Martinez .................. 41........ 10.00
McKinley ................347........ 20.00
Mill Valley............, ...356........ 50.00
Mission ....................169........ 50.00
Mendocino ..............179........ 5.00
Mispah ......................378........ 10.0D
Molina ...................... 150........ 5.00
Monrovia ..................308........ 10.00
Morgan Hill ............463........ 10.00
Morning Star .......... 68........ 20.00
Monterey .......:..........217........ 5.0D
Madera ......................280........ 10.00
Mosaic ......................218........ 10.00
Mountain View........194........ 10.00

Lodge

No.

Amt.

Mount Moriah ........ 44........ 25.00
Mount Diablo..........448........ 15.00
Mount Jackson ........295........ 10.00
Natoma ...........: ........ 64........ 5.00
Naval ........................ 87........ 20.00
Needles ....................326........ 10.00
Nevada ....................,. 13........ 5.00
Norwalk ..................315........ 5.00
Oak Grove ................215........ 10.00
Oakland ....................188........ 10.00
Ocean Park ..............369........ 50.00
Oceanside ................381........ 10.00
Occidental ................ 22........ 10.00
Olive Branch ............269...:.... 10.00
Oriental ....................144........ 25.00
Orlando ....................265........ 5.00
Oxnard ....................341...:.... SO.OD
Orosi ........................383........ 20.31
Pacific ...................... 136........ 20.00
Pacific Grove............331........ 5.00
Pajaro ......................110........ 10.00
Palo Alto ..................346........ 10.00
Palos Verdes............389........ 60.00
Park ..........................449..:..... l'S.00
Parnassus ................388........ 10.00
Petaluma ..................180........ 5.00
Pasadena .........-> .... :• .272........ 25.00
Pentalpha ................202........ 10.00
Penrhyn ....................258........ 5.00
Phoenix .......: ............178........ 25.00
Pinole ........................353........ 20.00
Pittsburg ..................429........ 10.00
Patterson ..................488........ 8.25
Plumas ......,............... 60 ..:..... 5.00
Presidio ....................354........ 25.00
Paso Robles ..............286........ 10.00
Ramona ....................457........ 10.00
Redondo ..................328........ 10.00
Redwood City.......... 168........ 30.00
Reedley ....................304........ 10.00
Richmond ................376........ 10.00
Reading ....................254........ 10.0D
Rio Vista ..................208........ 10.00
Rising Light ............397........ 20.00

Lodge

495

No.

Amt.

Roseville ..........:.......222........ 25.00
Russian River..........181........ 10.00
Sacramento ....,......... 40........ 10.00
Salinas ......................204........ 10.00
San Benito................211........ 5.00
~an Diego ................ 35........ 25.00
San Francisco..........360........ 10.00
San Dimas ..............,.428........ 25.00
San Jacinto ......:.......338........ 5.00
Santa Paula ..............291........ 76.83
San Mateo ................226........ 10.00
San Miguel......:.........285 ........ 20.00
San Jose ....:............... 10........ 10.00
San Pasqual..............452........ 30.00
Snow Mountain ......271........ 5.00
Santa Cruz................ 38........ 10.00
San Simeon..............196........ 10.00
San Pedro..................332........ 10.0D
Santa Monica ..........307........ 5.00
Sequoia ..........:.........349........ 10.00
Sierra Valley............ 184........ 5.00
Silver Gate................296........ 20.00
Silver Trowel ..........415 ........ 25.00
Sisson ........................310........ 10.00
Silveyville ................201........ 10.00
South Gate .... :...........320........ 10.00
South Pasadena ......367 ........ 20.00
Sierra Madre............408........ 10.00
Sincerity ..................132........ 10.00
So. California ..........278........ 25.00
Sanger .....................:316........ 20.00
So. San Francisco..212 ........ 10.00
Speranza Italiana....219........ 10.00
Stanislaus ................206........ 25.00
Starr King................344........ 10.00.
St. John's ..........,....... 37 ........ 10.00
Suisun ....................., 55........ 7.50
Sunset ......................352........ 25.00
Tehachapi ................313 ........ 20.00
Tehama .................... 3 ........ 20.00
Temblor ..................477........ 25.00
Temescal ... ~..............314........ 5.00
Thousand Oaks ......478........ 10.00
Texas ..:..................... 46........ 5.00

496

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Amt. · Lodge
No·.
Amt.
Tuolumne ................ 8........ 5.00 Washington ............ 20........ 10.00
Tuscan ...................._261 ......- 10.00 Welcome ..................255........ 10.bO
Tyrian ......................439...- .. 25.00 Wilmington .....•......198......;. 10.00
Union (1919 Class) 58........ 51.14 Winnedumah ..........287........ 20.00
Union ........................ 58.•...... 25.00 Waucoba ..................413........ 20.00
Unity ........................368....;.. 16.00 Western Star..........:. 2........ 10.00
Vacaville .................. 134........ 20.00 Woodbridge .......,.... 131......., 5.00
Valley ...................-.135........ 5.00 Woodland ................ 156........ 10.00
Vesper .:.................... 84........ 5.00 Woodstock ..............491........ 5.00
Victory ....................474........ 25.00 Yolo .......................... 81........ 2.50
Visalia ......................128........ 20.00 Yosemite .................. 99........ 10.00
Vitruvius ..................145........ 18.00 Yount ............................ 12........ 20.00
Chapter R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Amt,
Alameda ............,..... 70........$ 5.00
Alturas ......................107........ 2.50
Antioch ..................... 65........ 10.00
Azusa ........................ 89........ 5.00
Benicia ...................... 7........ 10.00
Berkeley .................. 92......•. 20.00
California ................ 5........ 25.00
Calaveras ................ 83........ 10.00
Charles Frederick
Crocker ................ 106........ 5.00
Chico ........................ 42........ 10.00
Coalinga ..................114........ 5.00
Colusa ...................... 60........ 5.00
Corinthian ................ 51........ 10.00
Curtis .....:.................. 15........ 5.00
Delta ........................ 27........ :Z.50
Donner .....:................ ·39........ 5.00
Doric ........................ 66..:..... 5.00
East Gate .................. 103........ 5.00
El Centro ..................109.......• 10.00
Ferndale .................. 78........ 20.00
Fidelity .................:.. 90........ 5.00
Fresno ............:......... 69........ 5.00
Fruitvale ..................111........ 10.00
Grass Valley ............ 18........ 5.00
Hollister .................. 68........ 5.00
Howard .................... 14........ 10.00
Humboldt ................ 52........ 10.00
Kern Valiey .............. 75........ 20.00
Keystone .................. 56..;..... 10.00

Chapter
No. . Amt.
La Purissima............ 104........$10.00
Long Beach.................. 84........ 10.00
Los Angeles.............. 33........ 10.00
Mendocino .............. 88.,...... 5.00
Mill Valley................ 108..,..... 20.00
Mission .................... 79........ 20.00
Modesto .................. 49........ 10.00
Napa .......................... 30........ . 5.00
Naval ........................ 35........ 10.00
Nevada ................,... 6.;...... 5.00
Palo Alto .................. 93........ 10.00
Petaluma .................. 22........ 5.00
Redondo .................. 101........ 10.00
Sacramento .............. 3 ........ 20.00
Salinas ...................... 59........ 5.00
San Jacinto .............. 87........ 5.00
San Luis................:... 62........ 10.00
San Pedro ................ 89........ 5.00
Selma ........................ 119........ 10.00
Shas'ta ...................... 9........ 10.00
Siloam ...................... 37........ 10.00
Santa Cruz ................ 38........ 5.00
Santa Rosa................ 45 ........ 10.00
Sonora ...................... 2........ 5.00
Stockton .................. 28........ 20.00
Tulare ...................... 71........ 10.00
Vacaville .................. 81........ 10.00
Visalia ...................... 44........ 10.00
King Solomon's.......... 95 ........ 10.00
Marin ........................102........ 10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

497

Council, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Council
No.
Amt.
Council
No.
Al_h;i.mbra ................ 25........$20.00 San Jose .................... 20........$ 5.00
Gateway ......'.............. 13........ 2.50 Santa Barabara........ 19........ 5.00
King Solomon's ...... 29........ 5.00 Shasta ...................... 6........ 5.00
Long Beach .............. 26........ 5.00 Sonora .......\.............. 5........ 5.00
Ontario ....................105........ 10.00 Valley ......... ~............ 27........ 5.00
Commandery, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Amt.
Commandery
No.
Amt.
Bakersfield .............. 39........$20.00 Palo Alto.................. 47 ........ 15.00
Berkeley .................. 42........ 10.00 Redding .................... 50........ 24.00
California ................ 1........ 25.00 Riverside .................. 28........ S.00
Chico ........................ 12........ 10.00 Red Bluff .................. 17........ 5.00
Colusa ...................... 24........ 5.00 Sacramento ............ 2........ 10.00
Glendale .................. 53........ 5.00 San Francisco .......... 41........ 15.00
Golden Gate ............ 16........ 25.00 Santa Cruz................ 44........ 5.00
Hanford .................... 46........ 10.00 San J ose .................... 10........ 10.00
Imperial Valley.:........ 54........ 10.00 San Diego.........:........ 25 ........ 10.00
Long Beach .............. 40........ 10.00 San Luis Obispo ...... 27........ 10.00
Los Angeles ............ 9........ 25.00 Santa Ana.................. 36........ 10.00
Modesto .................. 57........ 20.00 Santa Rosa ...........:.... 14........ 25.00
Marysville ................ 7........ 10.00 St. Omer.................... 30........ 10.00
Mount Olivet .......... 20........ 5.00 St. Bernard .............. 23........ 15.00
Mount Shasta.......... 32........ 10.00 Stockton .................. 8........ 20.00
Napa .......................... 34........ 5.00 Vacaville .................. 38........ 10.00
Naval ........................ IL..... 20.00 Visalia ...................... 26........ 10.00
Nevada ...................... 6........ 5.00 Woodland ................ 21........ 5.00
Oakland .................... 11........ 10.00 Fresno ...................... 29........ 5.00
Pacific ...................... 3........ 5.00
Lodge of Perfection, A. &A. S . R .
Amt. · Lodge
Lodge
.
No.
No.
Amt.
California ................ 10........$25.00 San Jose .......:............ 13........$10.00
Fresno' ...................... 6........ 25.00 Stockton .................. 12........ 25.00
Isaac Davis.............. 4........ 10.00 San Francisco.......... 1........ 25.00
Oakland .................... 2........ 50.00

o. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Amapola .................. 119
$24.50
Athens ......................227........ 50.00
Cacheville ..............349........ 2.00
Ione ..........................283........ 5.00
Mill Valley................219........ 20.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Naomi ...................... 35 ........$25.00
San Jose .................... 31........ 50.00
Sierra · Madre............299........ 10.00
W illits ......................314........ 10.00

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Individuals.
Andersen, John ........................$ 5.00 Friend ..................:.................$ 5.00
Baker, Thomas ]. ................ 10.00 Friend .................................... 2.50
Bolster, Frank S ................... 20.00 Laird, F. C.............. ~ .............. 10.00
Boomer, George.................... 5.00 McLean, Mrs. M. L. ............ 20.00
Cohn, Louis............................ 5.00 Polhemus, J. A..................... 3.00
Hansen, Harold W ............. 10.00 Roberts, W. A....................... 5.00
Emerson, H. W ..................... 10.00 Ruckstall, John R............... 5.00
Jones, Robert........................ 5.00 Snyder, Jacob ........................ 50.00
Kin card, Thos. S................. 10.00
RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME.

Following is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto
Home, the date of their admission, their respective ages, the name
and number of the Lodge nominating them, and the location of
such Lodges:
Men, 87.
Name
Adm-itted
Lodge
No. Location Age
Anderson, Alfred ........June 2, '20 Gravel Range ...... 59 Oamptonvil!e..70
Anderson, C. A ........... Feb. 9, '09 Mt. Moriah ............ 44 SanFr'ncisco..73
Baxter, Samuel M .....Jan. 25, '20 La Fayette............ 126 Sebastopol ....80
Bell, Bradford ............ Dec; 5, ;15 Mt. J ackson ..........259 Guerneville.... 79
Best, Willard A .........July 12, 'Zl
Consuelo ..............235 Escondido......73
Bright, Joseph A ....... April 25, '21
Starr King ............344 SanFr'ncisco..67
Broyles, Adam C .......Sept. 28, '20 Chico .................... 111 Chico ..............74
Buckley, Peter ............ May 21, '19 Hawaiian ·.............. 21
Honolulu ......75
Bull, Clinton M ......... Aug. 11, '21
Moneta ..................405 Los Angeles..44
Burner, Henry............Jan. 10, '16 Occidental ............ 22 SanFr'ncisco ..74
Chapman, ]. M ........... Oct. 11, '11
Concord ................ 117 Sacramento....71
·Christian, Caesar..........Mar. 3, '20 Golden Gate .......... 30 SanFr'ncisco..68
Cole, W. N .•.................Jan. 18, '18 Long Beach ..........327 Long Beach ....87
Collins, Nelson W .•... ~ept. 12, '19 . Calistoga ..............233 Calistoga ......58
Croly, James ----~---··----Mar. 31, '19 Gold Hill .............. 32 . Lincoln ..........83
Woodland......75
Crutcher, Elliott........ May 28, '20 Woodland ............156
Naval .................... 87 Vallejo ..........72
Davis, Charles H .......Dec. 12, '15
Davis, John M ...........July 26, '17 Keith ....................187 Gilroy ............72
Dennis, William.......... Feb. 28, '11 Sierra Valley' ........184 Quincy ..........88
Doney, William K. .... May 7, '21
Sisson ....................310 Sisson ............91
Dunham, Murray........ Dec. 11, '15 Plumas .................. 60 Quincy ........ 91
Evans, David P ......... Mar. 15, '21
Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles..71
Featherstone, J . W ...Feb. 7, '21
S. Buenaventura 214 Ventura ........76
Feterstonhaugh,F.C. April 15, '21 . Fidelity ................ 120 SanFr'ncisco..70
Fitch, Thomas............ May 15, '20 East Gate ..............290 Los Angeles..83
Franck, Isadore ..........Jan. 10, '16 LaParfaiteUnion 117 SanFr'ncisco..74
Finn, Alexander.......... May 11, '18 Alameda .........~ ....167 Centerville ....83

499

Name
Admitted
L odge
No. Location Age
Freeman, Isaac L. ......Mar. 17, '18 Elk Grove .............. 173 Elk Grove......62
Fink, Conrad................ Aug. 23, '12
Hermann .........:....127 SanFr'ncisco..83
Garrison, D. M ...........April 15, '21
King David's ........209 \S.L's Obispo..72
Gompertz, Chas. F ... Oct. 19, '18 Duran.t ..................268 Berkeley ........86
Gregory, Anwyl .:..........Jan. 31, '16 Mispah ..................378 Los Angeles..74
Guisto, J ohn ................Aug. 1, '17 Amador ................ 65 Jackson ..........87
Hardage, Jas. M .......Mar. 13, '17 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles..80
Harriger, Geo. W ..... May 24, '21
Orland ..................265 Orland ..........70
Hill, Maxwell G.........June 30, '16 For bestown .......... 50 Forbestown....84
Hortepstine, J . B....... Aug. 7, '20 Mosaic .............:....218 Livermore......71
Jeffers, S .......................J an. 5, 'fO Eden ...................... 113 San Leandro..84
Johns, J osiah .............. April 15, '12 East Belt ..............391 Tuolumne ....68
Kalfus, J. L. ................Dec. 15, 'i7 San Jose ................ 1O San J ose........68
Keech, Alvin W ... ::.... Aug. 10, '20 Hon~lulu ..............409 Honolulu ......68
Keene, James ................Sept. 4, 10 Mendocino .......... 179 Mendocino ....84
Keller, Willis A ......... Nov. 11, '15 Mendocino .......... 179 Mendocino ....71
Kennedy, Duncan ......June 19, '17 Redlands ........:.....300 Redlands .......74
Kerr, Earl.................... Sept. 11, '09 Pacific ....................136 SanFr'ncisco..84
Klaassen, Henry........ Nov. 1, '17 Hermann ..............127 SanFr'ncisco..75
LaBonte, Francis X. Nov, 2, '14 Reading ................254 Redding ........74
Laskey, Benj. G .........July 25, '20 Board of .Relief
SanFr'ncisco..78 .
Long, Edward............ May 9, '20 Fruitvale .............. 336 Oakland ........72
Lippoldt, H. A ...........Jan. 20, '07 Northern Light.... 190 Millville ........91
Magee, David B......... April 19, '11
Doric ....................216 SanFr'ncisco..80
McMahon, Peter A ... Aug. 29, '21
Pentalpha ............202 Los Angeles..77 '
Mehrtens, Richard .... Nov. 12, '13 Crockett ................139 SanFr'ncisco..76
Maniece, John ............June 17, '15 San Diego.............. 35 San Diego.... 85
Metcalf, Solon T ...........Jan. 26, '18 Sequoia ....................349 Oakland ........80
Meyer, William D ....... Aug. 31, '12 Mountain View......194 Mt. View........60
Morgan, Josiah W ....... Aug. 11, '14 Phoenix ..................178 San B'r'd'n'o..89
McEwen, John H .........Aug. 21, '13 Paj aro ......................110 Watsonville ....76
Olson, Peter S ............... April 28, '20 Santa Cruz.............. 38
Santa Cruz....75
Ong, Jackson W .............May 12,'15 H ornitos .................. 98
Hornitos ......91
Osmer, Reuben ..............Feb. 13, '20 McCloud ..................430 McCloud ......86
Nickerson, F. L .............Feb. 18, '20 San J ose .................. 10 San Jose...... 74
Parini, Daniel..................Feb. 10 '14 Nevada .................... 13
Nevada City..83
Penlington, Thos........ :..May
'21 Pacific ...................... 136 SanFr'ncisco..81
Perium, Chas. J ...............Jan. 15, '18 Mission ....................169 SanFr'ncisco..79
Potting, Henry F ...........May 2, '11 S.San Francisco......212
SanFr'ncisco..73
Preston, ]. N ...................Ma,y 22, '12 South Gate..............320 Los Angeles..89
Righetti, Robt. ................Mar. 9, '18 Pentalpha ........:.......202 Los Angeles..70
Reynolds, Johnson ........May 11, '18 King Solomon's......260 SanFr'ncisco..77
Ross, Elias E .................Nov. 12, '14 Ophir ........................ 33 M urphys ......:.73
Rossow, Ernest..............Mar. 19, '16 Naval ................:..... 87 Vallejo ..........67

4:

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Schulp, John .................. Aug. 1, '18
Shepard, Amos B.........May 20, '19
Smith, James D ............. May 12, '19
Stanton, Jed C .............April 9, ' 18
Schwartz, Jacob P ....... May 4, '16
Speidel, Adolph F .........May 19, '16
Spooner, George C.......June 29, '18
Tillson, Fred M .............June 18, '20
Treat, James M .............Nov. 2, '15
Tripp, William O ......... Sept. 14, '18
Van Metre, George........Oct. 13, '19
Walton, Jesse ..................Sept. 24, '20
Wildman, William........ Oct. 6, '19
Willis, 0 . J .....................April 24, '.20
Woods, Robert .............. Nov. 16, '20
Yates,. Enoch ..................F~. 14, '17

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Lodge
No. Location
Age
Evergreen ..............259 Riverside ......73
Galt ..........................2tJ7 Galt ....... .........90
Eden ........................113 San Leandro..76
Rio Vista..................208 • Rio Vista......80
Welcome ................255 Lemoore ......fJ7
Hermann ................127 SanFr'ncisco..74
Evening Star..........180 Etna Mills ...'...80
Oakland ........7..
Live Oak.................. 61
Hesperian ................264 Santa Maria..68
Morning Star.......... 68 Stockton ........76
Trinity .................... 27
Weaverville ..73
Oakland ..................188 Oakland ........83
Pomona ..................246 Pomona ........66
Riverbank ....76
Riverbank ..............459
Mission ..................169 SanFr'ncisco..66
San Diego................ 35
San Diego... 75

WOM:EN, 59.

Name
Admitted
Ames, Minnie P ............. Oct. ~1, '13
Armantage, 'f.heresaA...Jan. 5, '19
Ayers, Sarah J ...............Mar. 19, '19
Baxter, Mary E.............April 16, '02
' Carlson, Laura L ...........Feb. 10, '20
Crutcher, Sarah E ......... Nov. 28, '20
Cottrell ········-··················Dec. 5. '20
Davis, Eliza A ..............July 26, '17
:pickson, Alice W .........June 11, '21
Donaldson, Abigail R. .. Mar. 10, '14
Dyer, Sarah.........."..........July 17, '00
Davis, Grace G...............July 25, '16
Elliott, Anna M .............May 1, '04
Fitch, Helen A ......._......Nov. 7, '19
Grant, Permelia ............ Feb. 2, '11
Hall, Maria, A...............Aug. 22, '19
Hamerly, Mary..............Jan. 8, '21
Hilton, Lizzie ................ May 7, '21
H eith, Catherine............Oct. 16, '10
J.ohanningsmier, A. ...... April 28, '17
Jenkins, Margaret ..........July 16, '20
Johnson, Amanda A .....Mar. 1, '21
Johnston, H:arriet C.......July 19, '21
J c;mes, Rosa...................... April 27, '19

Lodge
No.
Oak Grove.............-.215
Needles .................. 326
Lodi ·····-··-······-··-·.256
Santa Rosa .............. 57
Excelsior ·······-·······166
Woodland .............. 156
East Gate................290
Keith ........................187
Pacific ·····-···············136
Vacaville ··········- ····134
Oriental ..................144
Naval ...................... 87
Occidental .............. 22
Excelsior ................ 166
Antioch .................. 175
Live Oak.................. 61
Corinthian .............. 9
Naval ...................... 87
Fresno ...................... 47
Fruitvale ................336
Mariposa ................ 24
Laurel ......................245
Washington ............ 20
San Diego................ 35

Location AgB
Alameda ........64
Needles ..........64
Lodi ..............79
Santa Rosa....~
SanFr'ncisco..61
Woodland ....75
Los Angeles..67
Gilroy ............75
SanFr'ncisco..64
Vacaville ......89
SanFr'ncisco..83
Vallejo ..........67
SanFr'ncisco..80
SanFc'ncisco..84
Antioch ..........80
Oakland · ........85
Marysville ....69
Vallejo ..........80
Fresno ............75
Oakland ........76
Mariposa ......92
Willows ........80
Sacramento ....77
San Diego..,...77

501

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Location
Age ·
Kalfus, Sarah. W ...........J an. 29, '19 San Jose .................. 10
San
Jose
........
58
Knight, Anna R............April 2, '14 Evergreen ..............259
Riverside
......
73
Lawrence, Lucy P ......... Nov. 21, '16 Board of Relief
Linder, Elvena B ......... May 1, '18 South Gate..............320 SanFr'ncisco- 59
Mast, Frances C...........Aug. 31, '13 Yosemite ................ 133 Los Angeles..71
McKinnon, Mary A .....Dec. 31, '01 Morning Star.......... 68 Coulterville....76
Moore, Emily N: ..........May 7, '12 Madison .................. 23 Stockton ........76
Pohlman, Mary..............J uly 15, '21 Porterville ..............303 Grass Valley..88
Potting, Nellie................May 2, '11 S. San Francisco....212 Porterville ....62
SanFr'ncisco..77
Proll, Anna R. C........... Feb. 5, '15 King Solomon's ......260
SanFr'ncisco..63
Powell, Mary A. ............ Feb. 16, '19 Oxnard ....................341
Oxnard ..........69
Ramsden, Marie............Dec. 8, '16 Mission ....................169
SanFr'ncisco..71
Redican, Mary A. ..........Mar. 1, '05 Los Angeles............ 42
Richardson, Julia A ..... Ma:. 26, '16 Live Oak.................. 61 Los Angeles..9()
Ricardo, Celina E .........Feb. 20, '21 Western Star.......... 2 Oakland ........71
Roby, Mary......- ..............July 15, '20 Burbank ..................406 Shasta ...- .......72
Burbank ........72
Smith, Elizabeth ............Aug. 28, '13 Friendship ..............210
Smith, Marana F ........... Nov. 21, '19 Morning Star.......... 68 San Jose........78
Stockton ........75
Sawyer, Ella B............... Aug. 30, '13 Natoma .................. 64
Folsom _ .......71
Sly, Ellen S ..................... Nov. 5, '13 Silver Gate..............296
Shreve, Adeline.............. Nov. 17, '18 Alamo .........:............ 122 San Diego......76
W'ln't Creek..86
Smallfy, Emily A. ........June 22, '14 Santa Ana ................241
Santa Ana ......78
Surface, Emma.............. Aug. 19, '16 Ione .......................... 80
Ione ................69
Thomas, Frances W .......J an. 4, '04 Abell ........................ 146
Tilden, Cordelia............ Nov. 2, '19 Santa Cruz.............. 38 Uiriah ............93
Walls, Jessie .................. Nov. 13, '19 · Pacific ;....................:136 Santa Cruz....78
SanFr'ncisco..70
Weil, Esther....................July 26, '17 Hiram ...................... 43
El Dorado......76
Wentworth, L. B ...........Feb. 10, '00 Hawaiian ................ 21
Honolulu ......76
Werner, Julia C.............Mar. 21, '21 Calistoga ................233
Calistoga ......80
Wetmore, Eveline ........Dec. 12, '20 Bay View ................401
Oakland ........66
Wilder, Marion C .........July 14, '21 Hawaiian ................ 21
Wheelock, Lizzie J ....... April 17, '20 Corinthian .............. 9 Honolulu ......72
Marysville ....72
Wooley, Jane.................. Dec. 29, '03 Alcatraz ..................244
Oakland ........87
Worden, Melissa............ Mar. 27, '18 Golden Gate............ 30
SanFr'ncisco..80
Wright, Sarah G........... Sept. 13, ' 14 Eden ...................... 113
San Leandro..83
DI:ED DURING TH:E • Y:EAR, 25.

Name

Date

B une
. d at

:ee~~ Robert......................................Aug. 22, 1920........................ Decoto

Bra ury, William W ..................... Sept. 1, 1920........................ St. Helena
C run son, Horace W .........................J uly 19, 1921.........,..............Tuolumne
C~gswell, J am es L .............................April 13, 1921........................0akland
C a_~blin, Marquis R. ...................... Aug. 30, 1921........................0akland
rat' L.uke M ..................................... Aug. 30, 1921........................Decoto

502

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date
Buried at
Name
Aug 10 1920........................ Elmhurst
·
'
Oakland
Elder, Mary ].....................................
.
p
Mar 30 1921........................
Fuller, Catherine ...........................
:
'
S t Mada
.
April 17 1921........................ an a
Field, Bessie N ................................... e t
........................0akland
Huggins, Augustus J ......................... S P • 2 ' 1920
Oakl nd
Oct 11 1920........................
a
Hunter, Mary R · S...........................
·
'
Decoto
June 3 1921........................
·
Hughes, Samuel .....................,...........
'
·
Oakland
Aug· 16' 1921...
.....................
. Bertha ..................................
.
Harns
·
D c to
'
· Aug 6, 1921........................ e 0
Linderholm, Henry .......................... . ·
L Angeles
~
Aug 8 1921........................ os
Mitchell, Charles ..,.,..........................
·
'
San Francisco
Aug 8 1920........................
. . F
Ogden, BenJamm ..,........................
·
'
Oakland
.
Sept. 1 1920........................
Olson Ole ...........................................
'
D oto
'
.
H
Mar. 12, 1921........................ ec
Payne, Edwm .................................
2.
Decoto
Aug 3, 19 1........................
Ricardo, John D .................................
·
D oto
May 5, 1921........................ ec
Redmond, Samue1 ..................._.........
S Jose
. ·
D ...........................Aug. 24' 1921........................ I an
Rhoads W 1lham
'
p
Feb 3 1921... ..................... one
Surface, James ...............................
:
'
· S nta Maria
.
. .
H
.
Apnl 11 1921........................ a
Stubbins, W1l1iam .........................
'
O kland
Oct· 8' 1920........................
a
Wing, Isabella M..................._._...
.
Amador City
Weil, Aaron ........................................Mar· 12, 1921........................

6

F. B. HARTMAN,
Superintendent. •

503

COVINA HOME-SUPERINTENDENT'S REPORT.
Board of Trustees,
M asonic Homes of California.

The increasing demands of the Covina Home necessitated the
creation of the office of Superintendent, to bring into practical operation
the many departments of this work in the thorough manner that the
high ideals of Masonry 'should require. Having been requested by
your Board to accept this responsibility, I have endeavored to perform
the duties of the office to my best judgment, and I am encouraged to
believe that the results accomp!ished justify the pride the Fraternity
displays in our Home, and merits the approval so generously exprP.sseo
by many friends and Masons most familiar with the work and most
competent to judge. My fullest compensation, however, is the gratitt;de
and sincere appreciation of the children who strive so earnestly to
reach the highest mental and, physical standards. The result 0f their
efforts, and the satisfactory co-operation of our patient matrons and
assistants, is best shown in the reports of Doctors Faber and Ritter
in their examinations made by the Department of Pediatrics of
Stanford University, which they will report to your Board.
Organization-Best results are obtained by a systematic use of
our time. Waste of time or material destroys efficiency and discourages
industry. The more quickly necessary duties are performed the more
time is .conserved for diversions. H appiness is derived from satisfac.
tion in labor as well as in the pleasant hours of diversion. Our aim
is happiness in occupation as well as diversions; therefore an organiza·
tion of departments, with none overlapping, has stimulated a healthy
competition among members of our staff, as well as our appreciative
children. Our staff is organized as follows .:
Edward B. Spencer
Dr. W . P. Magan
Dr. J . M. Dunsmoor
Dr. Warren Gill
Prof. Geo. M. Hargrave
Hanora A. Douglas

Superintend~nt
Home Physician
Consulting Physician and Surgeon
Chief of Dental Work
Physical and Manual Training
Matron

Immediately on assuming direct charge of the H ome, new filing
cabinets were installed ; and all records of children, including copies
of applications, family. history, and the charts showing the physical and
mental surveys of Stanford University were segregated by Lodges.
In future all correspondence, health reports, school records or other
information will be carefully kept in these files for the benefit of the
child or Lodge, as well as our own record of the child's care.

504

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Under the direction of Doctors Magan and Dunsmoor, physicians,
and Dr. Gill, dentist, we followed every recommendation made by Dr.
Faber; and the Matron, Housemothers and others, under the direction
of the Superintendent, followed faithfully with most pleasing resuits
the recommendations of Dr. Arthur J. Ritter. Our internal management has been changed to a marked degree. We have endeavored to
eliminate every feature or form of institutional methods, and give the
home spirit in actual practice in all domestic details. The children
enjoy these changes, and they have demontrated by their interest in
our new features that with proper cooperation the plan is most
practical.
A Self Government plan actually in operation has proven a most
constructive feature of our work. Our plan takes the form of our
National Government in a legislative way, but places the executive
in the hands of committees. The "House" is composed of children
in the fourth to the seventh grades inclusive. The "Senate" is formed
by children of the eighth grade and High School. _The Matron,
assistaut matron, and House Mothers form the Cabinet, and the
Superintendent is the directing head. This will at once be termed
semi-seli-goverpment by those experienced in the work. We will
admit ·that to the extent of the advisory cabinet and executive officer,
but the children through their committees actually put into operation
the resolutions of the Bodies of their Congress. '.J'he failure of selfgovernment in chi!dren is the lack of executive ability, judgme~t and
initiative. This semi-self-government, if you choose to so designate
it, with instructors as counsellors, makes the plan a practical one,
and the results in inspiring interest in the government of the Home,
and pride in establishing high standards for their perso~al conduct,
is gratifying. It solves many disciplinary problems and stimulates the
principles ·of good citizenship in the child mind.
As a part of our educational work I feel I should mention here
that our work has been made more pleasant and more fruitful of good
results by the insta'.lation of some very practical interior improvements
by some of our generous friends in the Fraternity. Brothei: Joseph
E. Hinds of Corona Lodge, Pasadena, fitted up a beautiful music
room at much expense in the girls' dormitory building. Walls were
beautifully painted in mottled tints, a stage constructed with curtains
and lighting effects, and hardwood floors built in for instruction in
classic dancing.
The Patrons Association of the Eastern Star of Los Angeles and
Orange counties furnished a club room for boys in a ~ost el_aborate
way. Lockers were installed for sport costumes, hikmg suits and
drill uniforms as well as card tables, games and other diversions for
the active-minded boy who demands intelligent indoor recreation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

505

Our good friend Brother Tom Wilson, assisted by Brother Frank
Bro'."'nlee,_ assembled a large committee of their friends among. the
movmg p1ct.ure peo~le, and presente~ the children with a magnificent
Powers pro1ector with fireproof housing and a beautiful and expensive
s~reen for the pictures. Connections have been established now with
different agencies that supplies the most desirable films for use every
~aturdar night. The news weeklies, a comedy, and good clean educat10nal pictures are selected or approved by the Superintendent.
Brother F. L.· Daugherty, coach for Franklin High School has
given generously of his time in gymnasium instruction and 'Miss
~arolyn Gillelan, a student of Miss Dorothy Lynda!!, our former
instructor, has met with much success in her teaching of 'classic
dancing with the girls.
.
For particulars in our work of the year in Physical and Educational
care, I refer you to the special reports appended from each of the
departments. Permit me to commend the wonderful work of Dr W
P .. Ma~an in t~e serious illness of James Keeley and Helen Gitiiam:
His faithful care and surgical skill saved their lives. Dr. Dunsmoor
is as devoted as ever to our children and arranged with our best
s?~cialists in the Fraternity for operations of tonsils, adenoids, circumc1s1ons and other corrections, at the close of school or when emergency
demands. He assisted Dr. Magan in James Keeley's operation. Dr.
Warre~ Gill has c?mplete charts of our dental work for every child,
an? his seven assistants, all members of Wilshire Lodge, keep our
children one hundred per cent right in the care of their teeth. These
good men are members of the Fraternity and will accept no compensation for their services.
T~e valuable ~ervices of Dr. W . P. Magan should be particu!arly
appreciated, as he 1s not a member of our Fraternity. He is interested
because he knows our children, loves them all; and just because he is
a good-hearted, kind man, he enjoys his work with us.

Professor George M. Hargrave, Instructor of Manual Training a t
Covina High School, has just been added to our staff. He gives us
two periods each week in Physical Training and three periods in
Vocati?nal Training. His assignments of work between periods are
made under the direction of boys displaying special ability in the
different subjects. We are much· pleased to have him take up this work.
Professor Ben S. Millikan, Supervising Principal of Covina Union
High School District, presents a report of the work of our children
in Covina High School and Charter Oak Grammar School. Professor
Millikan is a well known and most capable educator· and as a Mason
is deeply interested in the progress of our children ln th~se schools. '

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The past year has also witnessed the expenditure of nearly $5000.00
in playgrounds and equipment. The child needs play. Recreation, is a
physical and mental necessity. Whether or not all may approve of
this expenditure of money, we are ready to report we have derived
most satisfactory results from well directed p'.ay. with these scientifically designed forms of playground equipment. Let us here acknowledge our debt of gratitude to the Grand Court of the Order of
Amaranth through the efforts of their wonderful Grand Matron, Dr.
Flora Smith of Kingsburg, and the general Masons composing the
"Masonic Players" under the direction of their enthusiastic and capable
leader, .Brother Jesse Whited, for much of this equipment. Our hours
are so .arranged that each child receives a certain amount of outdoor
diversion. Generally they all like it, and are eager for games of competitive skill and physical action, but we have occasionally the book- · ·
worm or semi-anemic who requires urging.
Many minor improvements have been made to aid the operation
of detail work or add conveniences or privileges which should properly
be mentioned. A barber shop has been constructed in the half basement of the boys' building. Mizpah and Hollywood Lodges supplied
good barber chairs, and Brothers Greer and Pitman of these Lodges
furnished an electric hair clipper and other tools. A playroom for
small boys too young for school, and others during unpleasant
weather, has been partitioned off and lockers for playthings built in.
A series of portable tables and benches .has been provided for the
comfort of visiting Lodges who come from a distance and desire
lunching accommodations. South Gate Lodge is now constructing a
large awning that will provide a most comfortable feature for outdoor
meetings. This is circular in form and built around the steel flagpole in front of the group of buildings. Lockers and store rooms ·
have been provided for playground apparatus, tennis nets, basket ball,
base ball volley ball outfits, etc. A grand stand is now being constructed ~n the base· ball field, the gift of Fresno Pyramid of Sciots.
A small blacksmith shop with forge a:nd suitable equipment has saved
much in time, money and convenience. A new milk house .was · a
pleasing improvement. Wheeled containers for garbage and waste
removes the unpleasant part of this work for the boys. Incinerators
at the rear of each building makes easy work for little fell~ws to
keep the yards clean. Curbs built on .roa~ways keep playgrounds and
gardens free from carlessness of drivers. Many, many other ~uch
features are installed to keep the lesson of system, economy of time,
and neatness before the young and impressionable mind.
Improvements-The · foregoing ~ay be termed a brief report
on "The Children". Permit me . to make a short review of improvements of "The Plant" or property, which is so well designed for the

GRAND LO:OGE OF CALIFORNIA

507

housing and care of our family. First, we must mention the Manual
Training Building for boys, built and furnished by the Grand Chapter
Royal Arch Masons of California, and the Domestic Science Cottage
for girls, .built and furnished by the Grand Council Royal and Select
Masters of California. The operating plan of the Vocational or
Manual Training work for the boys will be shown in Professor
Hargrave's report. A competent instructor has been employed for
the girls in Domestic Science,. but at this writing is too ill to assume
her duties.
A suitable and attractive residence for the Superintendent has
been constructed, with a private office accessible at all times for
?ece~s~ry o~ce work and keeping of confidential records. The building
is similar m exterior appearance to the other buildings now constructed, and harmonizes with the group as designed for future
extensions.
The general appearance of the property has been greatly benefited
by the grading of the street in front from the paving line to the
property line and kept in order by our own men. New shrubbery and
roses have been set out in places before left bare. Roadways have
been graded with good crowns and proper drainage over· the place.
Old trees, and useless or unprofitable trees, have been removed from
the orchard area and fruit trees planted. An unsightly ravine always
used as a dumping ground for neighbors and others has been partially
filled and set to orange trees which fills out our lines to even dimensions. For particulars of our farm improvement, I refer you to the
attached report of our farmer which may be interesting to those
desiring this detail.
The question is frequently asked, "How are the children supplied
with personal funds or spending money, such as enjoyed by the child
in the private family?" This is nicely cared for by our merit system
which compensates through the medium of prizes for efficiency neatness, effort, thoughtfulness and voluntary 'service. This year,' being
one of much new work, the boys were given first opportunity to do
work that '\\'.Ould ordinarily be done by employed workmen. Digging
tree holes, grading terraces, roadways and playgrounds, setting shrubbery, helping with fencing, etc., all brought them amounts in proportion
to the cost if done outside. Boys share in these extra amounts, ~nd
enjoy additional privileges, who care for chickens, pigs, bees, garden,
lawn or special work that occurs from time to time. Merit prizes are
given for industry each six months. A display of useful articles is
opened up like a fair and the number of •articles shown ·at such times
is surprising. The girls filled an exhibition space 22 x 44 with garments,
needlework, and handwork. Boys displayed many models of "auto-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

508

mobiles", furniture, rollers, etc. Each entry received some prize.
Swimming, diving and hiking priZ'es are awarded generously, all which
stimulate effort with beginners. Care is used to provide prizes for a
variety of effort, so that none may be without encouragement in
some line.
Moneys are frequently left by visitors. No child accepts a "tip"
for a service, but the visitor is permitted to contribute to a "Treat
Fund" in which all participate. Visiting Lodges some .times leave a
collection and Chapters frequently donate a dollar to each child for
spending money. This fund amounted this last year to over $300.00,
and gave the children about '$4.00 each spending money.
Some children receive small amounts of money from parents or
their Lodges, some earn money caring for grounds, or work at school.
These funds go to their private account. Each child is given opportunities to earn so their private accounts are nearly equal in amount
and no embarrassment is suffered. High School children are given
a small allowance to meet little emergencies, and to take part in all
l>chool activities. This is charged to school expense from our maintenance fi,md. Each child also has a savings account in the bank.
This is added to by their own earniilgs and certain Lodges, Chapters,
the Grotto and others contribute equally to each child about Christmas
time. Friends frequently send amounts for the Easter trip to Baldy,
Thanksgiving treat or for their Beach season. These amounts go to
the Children's Self-Government organization and many p!easant outings
are provided.

In closing my report I desire to express my great pleasure in
serving yon the past year, and I have enjoyed participating in the
privilege of bringing these many new advantages to our de~erving
children. I have done this for the great love I personally cherish for
them all and my compensation is their appreciation of my efforts.
Now th~t my dream of ''.a beautiful perfect and complete whole" in
'the way of equipment is realized, I am requesting you to relieve me
of further responsibility in the detail of the work. A new S11perintende.n t can now step into a systematic organization of well trained
children without our good work suffering any inconvenience from the
change. You have my strongest good will, and 'if I may be of service
at any time to you or your new Superintendent, in counsel or otherwise, consider me always at your command.
Fraternally submitted,
E. B. SPENCER, Superintendent.
l

•-

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

509

COVINA-RESIDENT PHYSICIAN'S REPORT
In making this report I will only endeavor to cover those things

that pertain more or less directly to the health of the children.
In a general way the children are more free from disease than
those of the ordinary institution, or I might say even the surrounding
community, for they have a regular daily programme which they follow
and which involves proper exercise, an abundance of fresh air, good
wholesome food and kind and competent supervision and care by the
Superintendent and house mothers.
As to the diet, their menu consists of an abundance of plain,
wholesome and nourishing food. Special attention is given from time
to time to their diet and where one child requires special attention
to his diet this is looked after and the patient kept under observation
till he is set aright. Fresh vegetables and fruits in season are served
daily and I find no combinations of left-overs served at the tables or
on the trays.
An inspection of the hygienic surroundings and observation from
time to time shows them to be without fault. The sleeping quarters
consist of small wards, provided with at least one full window for
each bed, thus giving sufficient air and light for the occupants. The
wards are kept spotlessly clean and each child is taught to make his
own bed. The lavatories consist of sprays, washbowls and toilets
where the children take daily baths, etc. Each child has his own
towel, hairbrush, etc., and locker. Up-to-date playgrounds and a large
swimming pool are other features that add to the health and pleasure
of the kiddies. The children are examined from time to time for any
communicable disease that they may have, so that proper steps may
be taken i~ the matter of isolation, etc., that the other children may
not be exposed.
The Home provides proper and necessary facilities for manual
training for the children. This is very advantageous · in that it fits the
boy or girl with a trade or occupation, by means of which he may make
his livlihood when he grows up, is discharged from the Home, and
thrown on his own resources. It also helps to keep him in good
physical condition thus rendering him less susceptible to the diseases or
infections with which he may come in contact.
As stated in the beginning of this report the amount of sickness
in the Home is at the lowest possible figure. This is due largely to
the hygienic surroundings, proper diet, the out-of-door life which all
the children enjoy and last but not least, the kind and conscientious
care given by those in charge. I believe that Mr. Spencer and his

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

co-workers deserve the credit for the fact that in the past three years
there have been no deaths at the Home. This to my mind is evidence
• of successful preventive mea~ures.

not to them personally. These ·a re the members of our Dental Staff:
Dr. Leo M. Baughman, Dr. H. ~· Barnhart, Dr. Earl J. Thee, Dr.
George W. Fleischman, Dr. William K. Chambers, Dr. Clarence M.
Beebe, Dr. Nathaniel F. Hirtz and Dr. Warren D. Gill.

510

In closing this report I wish to say that I have enjoyed my work
the past year at the Home and esteem it a privilege to have the
medical care of the children. It is a pleasure indeed to work for
th~m and with those in charge.
w. P. MAGAN.

511

The orthodontia cases are being taken care of by dentists who
are not members of Wilshire, and are as follows : Dr. H. S. Brown,
Dr. Earl Brownson and Dr. Edward T. Black.
Fraternally submitted,

w ARRI!N D. GILL.
COVINA-DENTIST'S REPORT
Upon being given the privilege of serving our children at Covina
m the care of their teeth, I called together my brethern of Wilshire
Lodge in the dental profession, and on April second we made a
complete survey of the seventy-seven children in the H~me at that
time. The work indicated was placed upon charts made for each child.
It was a most agreeable surprise to find their mouths in such
good condition. There was no · pathological condition of any note.
Not an abscessed tooth in the entire Home, which is quite remarkable
and very extraordinary. This is probably due to a great extent to the
instruction the children receive, their good care and the plain wholesome food selected for them.
The following work was indicated: 60 cement or temporary fillings
for deciduous teeth, 48 silver or amalgam fillings, 5· gold inlays, 1
porcelain crown, 57 extractions, 12 regulation cases, five of which were
important, and about half .of the children needed prophylaxis.
After charts were made for each child, they were divided into
eight groups, with the· work as nearly equal as possible. A dentist was
then assigned permaner.itly to each group, and he is responsible for
the dental work of his group. These groups are like little dental
families, and. the doctors take a particular interest in t,heir little patients.
The children also take pride in having their own dentist, and each
one thinks his dentist is the best.
The operating is. done mostly in the splendidly equipped operating
room at the Home. Some of the work is done jn the dentist's office
in Los Angeles.

COVINA-SCHOOL REPORT
Your Superintendent, our good Brother Spencer has invited me
to join him in his report of the past fiscal year, and to make you
familiar with advantages offered to the school of which your
children are a part. The teachers of both the High School and
Grammar School speak in terms of praise of the Masonic . Home
children. They reflect their Home training in their courteous bearing,
their neatness in personal appearance and their active interest in all
the elements of school life. They occupy a prominent place in our
student body. Their intelligence is noticeably above the average and
they are chosen as class or student body officers frequently by the
popular vote of students.
The Covina Union High School opened the 1921-22 session with
an enrollment of 3'10 students, and a faculty composed of 19 teachers.·
The course of study embraces all the subjects of an up-to-date high
school, and offers studies that prepare any boy or girl to take up
such courses as Agriculture, Architecture, Chemistry, Commerce,
bentistry, Engineering, Forestry, Household Science, Journalism, Law,
Medicine, Music, Art, Pharmacy, and entrance to any college.
The school offers courses in both metal and wood shop. The
metal work includes forge, lathes and auto mechanics. This year the
wood shop is giving, in addition to the regular wood work, reed and
upholstering furniture. The commercial department offers work in
general office practice, such as posting and filing. The department is
well equipped with adding and posting machines, together with dictaphone and typewriters.

The work is progressing splendidly, and now that vacation is
over, it will soon all be complete. The Doctors will have only occasionally to examine their little dental families to see if they are in need of
repair or new work.

Mention should be made of our unusually well equipped physics
and chemistry laboratories.

This work is done by dentists from Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
They wish the credit, be that what it may, to go to the Lodge and

The school has always been act ive in athletics, sending out teams
in such sports as football, baseball, track, basketball, and tennis.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Interscholastic debate is fostered, and the students are encouraged
to participate in all kinds of forensic work. Each year two or three
plays are given, whereby a large number of students are given privileges
to work out along this line.
Music occupies an important place in the school. Much individual
instruction is given. Any student who has music ability is encouraged
to develop it. Every year a large musical program is given, using
every possible ability in the school.
The social life of the school is almost ideal. The moral conditions
are superb. The school is very democratic; it is like a large family.
The number is not large, so that a student may be personally acquainted
with every student in school.
The Charter Oak Grammar School is a most unusual rural
school.. In fact, it is a rural school with city advantages. It has an
enrollment of 150 children, with a faculty of eight teachers, five
regular and three special instructors. These children have work in
cooking, sewing, manual training, and art under very skillful teachers.
The district is a very·wealthy one, and has just voted bonds for
$50,000 with which to erect a modern cement building, which will
be well lighted, heated and ventilated. This will complete the conditions at Charter Oak, making it one of the ideal situations and
surroundings for school facilities in the state.
The school has for its principal a most capable woman in Miss
Clara Thompson. She devotes her whole life to the school, and the
children all like her and willingly follow her instruction.

2. N ew furniture for the rooms and other buildings. The fact
that they have contributed something to the Home will tend to create
a greater homelike feeling and will also have a tendency to instill a
greater respect for all furniture as well as their own.

512

BtN S. MILLIKAN,

District Superintendent.

COVINA-REPORT ON MANUAL TRAINING
A report from my department must be one descriptive of future
plans rather than of past work, as I am only beginning my labors·
with you. I must say that in the short time I have worked with
your boys I am wonderfully impressed with their knowledge of
organized effort, their eagerness to acquire profiCiency and their
gentlemanly deportment. It reflects the greatest credit on the management and I am pleased to become a member of the operating staff of
workers with these boys. In the Manual Training department I have
outlined the following as the best type of work for th is Home:
1. Repair work about the buildings, it being a method of teaching
the boys economy and also familiarizes them with factory methods
of assembling furniture.

513

3. Toys, made before Christmas, have a high educational value
.
and also gives to the boy the spirit of 'giving.
4. Reed furniture is fast coming into popularity, and, as the
layout is inexpensive and cost of materials is slight, it is being used in
schools to a large extent at this time. Reed work can be given as
low as the 6th grade with success. Range of projects are from baskets
and reading lamps etc. to ferneries and library tables-, etc.

5. Kite work. For spring work the making and flying of kites
can not be surpassed for popularity and also for its instructive value.
A proposed kite contest will be held where all the boys can compete
in the many events where kites can be used.
In Physical Training I find a receptive spirit for training and a
love of contest among them that greatly aids the instructor.
Organized play is recognized as one of the important parts of a
child's education. It trains him to work with others in a harmonious
manner. These great truths will be the aims of the Physical Training
program for the boys of the Masonic Home. With this in view it is
planned that the boys of the H ome be organized into groups, each
having a leader or captain, in order to make the instruction more
beneficial and helpful.
The Physical Training program will be divided into two divisions.
First: the physical development division which will include posture
training, gymnastic tra"ining such as Indian club drills, tumbling on
the mats, pyramid building, rope climbing, horizontal and parallel bar
work, practice on the overhead ladder, swimming and other work
utilizing the splendid equipment of the H ome. Second: the athletic
division where the boys will be given instruction in the various athletic
games as base ball, track, basket ball, tennis, indood, hand ball and
soccer, and also in Mass games which will train alertness, knowledge
of the rules and judgment, such games as snatch ball, ostrich tag,
prisoner's base, etc. will be used.
Contests of various kinds will be planned between the boys of
the Home and the near by Grammar Schools. These contests will
bring the boy in contact with other boys and will teach him to control
his will giving him self-control, self-reliance, courage and above all he
will be coache.d to go into these games as a true sportsman playing
the game fair no matter what the results may be.

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Another phase of the Physical Training program will be the
establishing of good health habits. A strong physique can not be
built up in a cigarette smoker, nor in a body who indulges in any
form of intemperance, and this truth will be brought out in every
part of the work.
The Masonic Home has a very fine physical training equipment
including grounds and apparatus and every effort will be made to give
the boys the full benefit of this.
G1;:o. M. HARGRAVE, Director.
COVINA REPORT ON FARM WORK.
The farm work of the Masonic Home this year has been so ·satisfactory that I feel our report will please Masons of California very
much. I wish they could have a before and after picture of the place
since it has been my privilege to do this work under your able and
courteous direction.
First let me say the grounds and soil are well adapted for the purposes, and satisfactory results are easy with your complete equipment.
The most important improvement of the year I should say was the
. grading and setting out of the citrus and deciduous orchards. About
forty well developed deciduous trees were moved to a location formerly
used as chicken runs, without loss. One hundred sixty-two new Valencias were added to the orange grove, and where new grading permitte<I
planting in an irregular piece near the cottage, a variety of unusual
fruits were planted for table use. New terraces were added to the side
hill vineyard and 235 new grapes were set or replaced. The sloping
ground on the lower area has been set to 184 deciduous trees with a loss
of only six, which have been replaced. These are all doing well. The
area below the sceptic tank has been terraced and set to berries consisting of two rows blackberries, three rows dewberries, two rows raspberries, two .rows loganberries and an irregular area set even with
strawberries. All areas between rows of new trees have been planted
to milo maize and Egyptian com, which produced well. All the alfalfa ·
field was plowed up and reseeded and new pipe placed to give satisfactory irrigation facilities.
· The garden ground has been changed to row the vegetables so that
a slower water flow is used and a much increased space covered. Pressure water has been extended to this tract and propagating beds and
plants are now convenient for use. Aside from this tract we have
squash, pumpkins, melons, etc., on sloping ground, and artichokes, asparagus and tomatoes on the hill ground.
Our livestock is in good shape. We were obliged to dispose of
one horse and secure a new one. We lost a fine cow through an acci-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.515

dent. We now have a good heavy team and .a light .horse for single
work. We have five graded Holstein cows; all doing well. One change
is recommended in this herd. We have eleven hogs or pigs which are
easily kerit by our surplus from the garden and waste from the building.
Our chickens are a good strain of white leghorns. We have about two
hundred young hens now doing well. This number will probably be
doubled in the spring. The chicken runs were all rebuilt and houses
furnished to designs given by the Holly Poultry F~rms Co., which supplies us with chicks.
The boys give entire care to the bees and they are doing well. The
boys show intelligence in their care of the pigs and chickens and I
recommend they again try their hand with ducks and rabbits.
The fencing, irrigation lines and roadw.ays which gave us some inconvenience are now in best order and all work well in · the general
system.
The older trees, both lemon and oranges, are doing remarkably
well. Last year all trees were pruned well back, fertilized and some
grade lines changed. The results were shown this year and our fruit
is of the highest grade. We have the "Sunkist Grove" sign awarded
us, which shows the standard of care and product.
Permit me to express my pleasure in performing my part of the
good work entrusted to you and the cordial men composing your
·
Board of Trustees.
Respectfully submitted,
M. G. GRADL£R, Farmer.
COVINA-PHYSICIAN'S REPORT.
In making a report of the past year's work at the Masonic Home
at Covina, I can only say there has been less to do than in past years.
My calls have been for consultation largely, as Dr. Magan of Covina
has kindly and generously met the· needs Ki the ordinary illnesses common to children.
·
·
I was called in consultation with Dr. Magan in the serious illness
of James Keeley and Helen Gilliam and assisted the operation performed on James Keeley. I d.esire to commend Dr. Magan for his skill
and judgment in this case.
·
At the close of school each year, it is my pleasure to call with other
doctors who are specialists in their work, and care for all cases of
adenoids, enlarged tonsils or similar troubles. This year I was assisted
by Dr. Walter L. Crane, Dr. W. Frank Holman, Dr. R. F. Hastreiter,
Dr. Robt. M. Dunsmoor and Dr. Nannie C. Dunsmoor. W e found much
less work to do this year than previous years and the health of the
children most satisfactory.
Respectfully.
J. M. DUNSMOOR, M. D.

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

NAMt:S OF CHILDRJ(N "AT COVINA.

Girls, 41.

Boys, 38.
Age
Lodge
No. Location
Name
Admitted
Aby, Robert Stephen....Aug. 23, '21 San Jose .................... 10 San Jose.......... 5
Baker, Paul Geo.............J uly 7, '20 Union ........................ 58 Sacramento...... 8
Cross, James Otis ..........Aug. 20, '21 Westlake ..................392 Los Angeles....11
Darling, Chas. W .........May 21, '21 Natoma .................... 64 Folsom ............12
Delosa, Salvatore..........Dec. 8, '19 Speranza Ital...........219 San Francisco..15
Delosa, Vincenzo............Dec. 8, '19 Speranza Ital...........219 San Francisco..11
Dowdy, Geo. Alfred. .....Mar. 17, '21 Southwest ................283 National City.. 7
San Francisco.. 9
Fischer, Douglas E .......Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. Relief
San Francisco.JO
Fischer, Eugene A. ........Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. Relief
Fisher, Wm. D ...............April 10, '15 Presidio ....................354 San Francisco..15
Fisher, Harrison ...- .....Mar. 8, '14 Presidio ....................354 San Francisco..12
Howard, Homer E .........Feb. 17, '13 Oriental ....................144 San Francisco.. 13
Inzer, J . W. McKenzie June21, '19 Sunset ........................352 Los Angcles....13
Keeley, James Hagh....April 26, '20 Highland Park ........382 Los Angeles....14
King, Elmer Gray..........Dec. 21, "19 South Gate ..............320 Los Angeles.... 17
King, Chas. Harry.-.....Dec. 21, '19 South Gate ..............320 Los Angeles....12
Marks, Earl Wm ...........June 2, '18 Culver City ...........:..469 Culver City...... 9
Marks, Richard P .........June 2, '18 Culve"r City ..............469 Culver City...... 11
Martin, Kent M...............Jan. 9, '21 Mt. Jackson ............295 Guerneville ...... 9
McKinley, Philip E .......Ang. 31, '21 Vacaville ..................134 Vacaville ........ 6
McKinley, Douglas S ...Aug. 31, '21 Vacaville ..................134 Vacaville ........ 4
Mole, Henry Gordon....Mar. 13, '21 West Gate ................335 Los Angeles....10
Mole, Wesley Edwin....Mar 13, '21 West Gate ................335 Lqs Angeles.... 7
Mooneyham, Wm. O .....Jan. 29, '16 Upland ......................419 Upland ............14
Parrent, Arvin Mahin..July 9, '19 Golden State ............358 Los Angeles....12
Pascoe, Richard H .........Scpt. 6, '17 Amador .................... 65 Jackson ............11
Prewett, Leland..............Mar. 3, 'J9 Sisson ........................310 Sisson ..............15
Prewett, Frederick........Mar. 3, '19 Sisson ........................310 Sisson .............. 12
Prewett, Robt. H ...... _...Mar. 3, '19 Sisson ........................310 Sisson .............. 9
Raftery, Earl A .............April 11, '13 Mizpah ......................378 Los Angeles ..,.15
Reynolds, Earl R ..-......July 12, '20 Live Oak .................. 61 Oakland ".......... 8
Reynolds, W alter F .....July 12, '20 Live Oak ....- ........... 61 Oakland ..........10
Rice, James Peter...- .....July 2, '15 Golden Gate ............ JO San Francisco.. 13
Taylor, Lauryn H .......-Aug. 29, '21 Woodstock ...,..........491 Alameda .......... 5
Taylor, Chas. Vaughn..Aug. 29, '21 Woodstock ..............491 Alameda .......... 7
Swartz, Sidney ............June 29, '17 West Gate ................335 Los Angeles....10
Swartz, Emil P ...............June 29, '17 West Gate ................335 Los Angeles....12
Smith, Robert ................Nov. 7, '15 University ................394 Los Artgeles.... 8

Name
Admitted
Aby, Helen A .................Aug. 23, '21
Baker, Mildred L ...........July 7, '20
Conley, Louise ....... ;...... Nov. 16, '16
Darling, Fern Elva........May 21, '21
Delosa, Mary ................Dec. 8, '19
Dowdy, Dorothy V .......Mar. 17, '21
Dowdy, Margaret Eliz..Mar. 17, '21
Fischer, Doris C.............Oct. 14, '16
Fisher, Alice E ............... Mar. 8, '14
Fisher, Ruth H ...............Mar. 8, '14
Fisher, Muriel ................Mar. 8, '14
Gilliam, Helen L ............. Sept. 30, '19
Inzer, Mary Lucille......June 21, '19
Inzer, Ivy Myrtle..........June 21, '19
Keeley, Marguerite...... April 26, '20
King, Emma Eliz.......... Nov. 21, '19
King, Mildred May........ Nov. 21, ' 19
Knudson, Gertrude ......July 2, '21
Knudson, Alida ............July 2, '21
Martin, Lauretta J ean..J an. 9, '21
McKinley, Margaret.... Aug. 31, '21
Pascoe, Edna ............ ~... Sept. 6, '17
Poole, Dorothy C...........Mar. 3, '18
Poole, Ruth Mary.......... Mar. 3, '18
Raftery, Bernice ··-···-·May 11, '13
Raftery, Martha ............Dec. 3, '17
Raftery, Mary ..................Dec. 3, '17
Reynolds, Marie ·-·---- July 12, '20
Rice, Edith W ............___ Nov. 10, '16
Schellpeper, Regina........Feb. 22, '19
Schellpeper, Mildred ....Feb. 22, '19
Schofield, Vera L ...........Feb. 27, '21
Sheppard, Marguerite..Mar. 24, '21
Sheppard, Catherine !...Mar. 24, '21
Sheppard, Mary Bella.. Mar. 24, '21
Shipley, Eva V ...............Aug. 17, '18
Shipley, Francis W .......Aug. 17, ' 18
Shipley, Hazel Fern...... Aug. 17, '18
Virgo, Alice M..............:Dec. 5, '13
Virgo, Sadie V...............Dec. 5, ' 13
Virgo, Winifred ............Dec. 5, '13

Lodge
No.
San J ose .................. 10
Union ........................ 58
Hollenbeck ........,.....319
Natoma ....:............... 64
Speranza Ital. ..........219
Southwest ................283
Southwest ................283
Masonic Bd. Relief
Presidio ....................354
Presidio ....................354
Presidio ....................354
Santa Rosa .............. 57
Sunset ........-..............352
Sunset ........................352
Highland Park........382
South Gate ..............320
South Gate ..............320
P acific ........................136
Pacific ........................136
Mt. Jackson .....- ....295
Vacaville ...............-134
Amador .................... 65
Pasadena .............:....Zl'J
Pasadena ................ .272
Mizpah ......................318
Mizpah ......................318
Mizpah .................. -178
Live Oak ..............-. 61
Golden Gate ....._:... 30
Parnassus .......:..,,........388.
Parnassus ..........,_...388
Jefferson ...........-..... 97
Adin ................,,........250
Adin .........................250
Adin ........................ .250
Santa Ana ...............241
Santa Ana ................241
Santa Ana ................241
Mizpah ......................378
Mizpah ......................378
Mizpah ..............:.......J78

517

Location
Age
San J 011.......... 13
Sacramento......13
Los Anreles.... 9
Folsom ............ 7
San Francisco..14
National City..14
National City..12
San Francisco..13
San Francisco..18
San Francisco..17
San Francisco.JO
Santa Rosa ...... 14
Los Angeles....14
Los Angeles.... 4
Loe Angeles.... 12
Lo• Angeles....14
Los Angeles.... 9
San Francisco.. 12
San Francisco.. 8
Guerneville .... 7
Vacaville ........13
J ackson ............13
Pasadena ........ 7
Pasadena ........ 8
Los Angeles....13
Los Angeles.... 9
Los Angeles.... 9
Oakland ........-13
San Francisco.. 9
San Francisco.. 14
San Francisco.. 10
LaPorte .......... 8
Adin ................13
Adin ................12
Adin ................10
Santa Ana ........13
Santa Ana ........11
Santa Ana........ 9
Los Angcles .... 14
Los Angeles ....13
Los Angeles ....11

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ADMIT'l'.l(D DURING THE YllAR.

Boys.
·Name
Admitted
Departed
Borland, John C. ·············································-·May ·21, 1915................Dec. 24, 1920
Borland, Robert M. ............................................May 21, 1915................Dec. 24 1920
Dalmas, Ramon Geo. ...............................:........June 15, 1919................J une 26, 1921
Jordan, Wm. Lewis -----····························--··--····Feb. 15, 1919................June 23: 1921
~e!erhans,C~red .........~.....,............................:._] uly 12, 1919................J uly 3, 1921
e ersen,
ester .............,..................................Sept. 28, 1917................July 23 1921
Smith, Herbert Frank ...................,..................Mar. 4, 1921................June 26: 1921
St. John, Andrew W ..........................:............:...Feb. 5, 1921................ April 23, 1921
St. John, Chas. A ...............................................Feb. 5, 1921................April 23 1921
Wehe, Victor .....................,..................................Aug. 28, 1913................J une 1s'. 1921

Girls.
Location
Date
Name
Lodge
No.
Aby, Helen A...................San Jose ............ 10 San J ose.............................. A'tlf; 30
Darling, Fern Elva ..........:.Natoma .............. 64 Folsom ................................Ma'JI 21
Dowdy, Nannie May........Southwest ........283 National City ....................Mat. 17
Dowdy, Margaret E .........Southwest ........283 National City ....................Mar. 17
Dowdy, Dorothy V ...........Southwest ........283 National City ....................Mar. 17
Knudson, Gertrude ............Pacific ................136 San Francisco ..................July 2
Knudson, Alida ..................Pacific ................136 San Francisco ..................July 2
Martin, L. Jeim..................Mt. Jackson......295 Guerneville .............~ ..........Jan. 9
McKinley, Margaret E.....Vacaville ..........134 Vacaville ............................Aug, 31
Sheppard, Mary B.............Adin ..................250 Adin ....................................Mar. 24
Sheppard, Catherine I .....Adin ..................250 Adin ....................................Mar. 24
Sheppard, Marguerite......Adin ..................250 Adin .................................... Mar. 24
St. John, Geraldine...:..:...Lincoln ..............470 San Francisco ..................Feb. 5
St. John, Winifred............Lincoln ..............470 San Francisco .................. Feb. 5
Schofield, Vera ..........:.......Jefferson .......... 97 La Porte ............................Feb. 27
Boys.
Natne
Lodge
No .
Aby, Robert S .......... ~........San Jose ............ 10
Dowdy, Geo. A...................Southwest ........283
Darling, Chas. W ._..........Natoma .............. 64
Martin, Kent M..............:..Mt. Jackson ......295
McKinley, Philip E ...........Vacaville ..........134
McKinley, Douglas S .......Vacaville ..........134
Mole, Henry G...................West Gate ..........335
Mole, Wesley E.................West Gate..........335
St. John, Andrew W .......Lincoln ..............470
St. John, Chas. A.............Lincoln ..............470
Smith, Herbert F .............King David........209
Taylor, Lauryn H ............•Woodstock ......491
Taylor, C. Vaughn............Vloodstock ......491

Location
Date
San Jose ............................ Aug. 30
National City ....................Mar. 17
Folsom ..............................May 21
Guerneville ........................Jan. 9
Vacaville ............................ Aug. 31
Vacaville ............................Aug. 31
Los Angeles ......................Mar. 13
Los Angeles ......................Mar. 13
San Francisco ..................Feb. 5
San Francisco ..................Feb. 5
San Luis Obispo................Mar. 4
Alameda ...............~ ............ Aug. 29
Alameda ............................ Aug._29

DllPARTUR!lS DU RING THE Y.l(AR.

Girls.
Natne
Admitted
DepMted .
Borland, Jessie G...............................................May 21, 1915................ Dec. 24, 1920
Delosa, Frances ....................~............:.........,,.......Dec. 8, 1919........ :.......Feb. 19, 1921
Dowdy, Nannie May ............. :............................Mar. 17, 1921................ May 31, 1921
Ferguson, Esther M . ..........................................June 16, 1916................0ct. 31, 1920
St. John, Geraldine .........-.................................Feb. 5, 1921................April 23, 1921
St. John, Winifred ..............................................Feb. 5, 1921................April 23, 1921

VISITATIONS TO COVINA HOME.
The visitations this year by different Lodges and Masonic bodies
were so well distributed and so nicely conducted that no inconvenience
was suffered and much pleasure and benefit derived. This year the
Lodges and individuals sought to entertain the children rather than the
children furnishing "programs" so frequently to crowds of visitors.
Our friends have been kind in words and deeds. Lodges bringing out
shows Saturday have frequently brought their "officers and enjoyed the
evening with the children. Jackie Coogan, Wesley Barry, Bennie Alexander and other child successes have visited personally and entertained
the children. Anne Raymond, the "Health Fairy," gave her lectures
physicians have spoken on health rules and dentists on care of teeth
and business men described their manufacturing plant or shipping interests. Other visits are as follows:
September 9th, 1920. Harbor Chapter No. 174, 0. E . S., conveyed
the children of the Home to Point Firmin, near San Pedro, to a picnic
with suitable observation of Admission Day. A splendid picnic lunch
with many refreshments. was provided, and games in the afternoon were
in generous prizes awarded.
September 19th. South Gate Lodge No. 320 and South Gate Chapter No. 133 visited our family in large numbers. This good Lodge
always takes the children among their numbers for basket lunch and
some provide ice cream and other refreshments for them. They left
with the children a generous amount for their Treat Fund, and a very
large quantity of fru its, jams and jellies for their store room.
September 19. Dr. Flora Smith, Grand Royal Matron of the Amaranth, and her splendid corps of officers paid the children a visit. Dr.
Smith, with· her genial personality, has won the hearts of all the chi!-

519

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dren and is an inspiration both to the members of our large family and
to our staff of assistants who look forward to her pleasant visits. Dr.
Smith offered prizes for a contest for essays on the virtues or emblems
of the Amaranth. She declared every essay a winner and gave each
child a $1.00 bill as a prize.

to this Lodge. Newell came to the Home through Wilmington Lodge
and it was his own request that he might extend them this welcome.
October 10th. Through the courtesy of Brother F. B. Comfort of
University Lodge, the Golden Bell Quartette gave a musical and entertainment for the children.
October 24th. Moneta Lodge No. 405 came with their families to
view the buildings and Home and entertained the children on the lawn
and grounds with some pleasing numbers.
October 31st. East Gate Lodge No. 290 mingled with the children,
exchanging different features of entertainment and" making the day a ·
most delightful one.
November 4th. About forty-five members of San Diego Lodge No.
35 visited with a committee from West Lake Lodge that they might
have an opportunity to carry back to the Lodges of San Diego their impressions of our good family and the nice Home provided for them by
the Fraternity.
November 7th. Highland Park Lodges No. 382 visited the Home
and entertained the children with some exceptional numbers. They
left a generous supply of fruits, jams and candies.
November 14th. Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, with a committee of
wonderful entertainers, gave the children a day of music and vaudeville entertainment that was wholesome, pleasing and instructive. It
was a day long to be remembered.
November 14th. Ashlar Lodge No. 306 of Colton came over from
their home place in a number of automobiles, all loaded with fruits,
and spent a portion of the day visiting with the children. Brother Andrews, the Master, attempted to look young again, that he might remain.
November 20th. Sister Hammersly, Matron of La Puente Chapter,
and a committee of about twenty of her good members, spent an interesting afternoon with the children and becoming quite well acquainted
with some of our older girls. They left a liberal quantity of fruits,
walnuts and almonds.
November 21st. No more active or generous Lodge exists in the
jurisdiction than Culver City Lodge No. 467. Their whole membership
appears to be entertainers, and their presence with us was like one continuous round of humorous episodes.
·
November 21st. ·several members of Wilshire Chapter No. 329
called at the Home and spent an hour with the children. This good
Chapter is deeply interested in our family and always remembers them
nicely through fruit season.
November 28th. Ramona Lodge No. 457 and Ramona Chapter No.
'J67 called with a musical and entertainment program for the children,

520

September 19. A most desirable visit was received from Artesia
Chapter No. 253, 0. E. S. Our friends enjoyed the visit with the children and left a generous supply of canned fruits.
September 26th. Miss Italia Anita Garibaldi, granddaughter of
General Garibaldi of Italy, lunched with the children and then gave a
most pleasing address describing conditions in her native country. I:Ier
reference to her distinguished father as a Past Grand Master of Masons
brought forth applause from the children. Brother A. Vignola, who
accompanied Miss Garibaldi, requested and was granted the privilege
of preparing the lunch for the children.
September 26th. Sunset Lodge No. 352 gave the Home a visit. No
special program or reception was arranged as it . was the wish of the
Lodge just to mingle with the children as one family visiting another
Ice cream and cookies ' were served by the Lodge for all.
September 26th. Buena Park Lodge No. 357 and Buena Park
Chapter No. 240 paid their annual visit to the children and left for
them a \>'ery generous donation 'of preserves, fruits and jellies.
September 30th. Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 visited the Home in
good numbers. As this Lodge meets in the day time and is composed
largely of musicians, theatrical people and others whose vocations
occupy them in the evening, they made their visit in the morning. They
brought with them a good band or orchestra, ran ~ome good moving
pictures and supplied the children with a generous quantity of ice
cream and cake.
October 1st. Dr. Flora Smith again visited the children, bringing
with her about twenty friends and Grand Officers. The children gave
her a reception in the evening which was really a credit to them; and
much enjoyed and appreciated by these Grand Officers.
October 1st. Mizpah Lodge No. 378 visited the children and provided a most interesting and instructive program among their friends
and visitors for the children.
.
October 10th. Wilmington Lodge No. 198 was entertained by the
children in a visit to the Home. Newell Brown, a graduate of the
Home and occupying a responsible position in one of the banks of Los
Angeles, was present and gave a most appropriate address .of welcome

521

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

After visiting the several departments of the buildings with the children
they left enthusiastic for the Home and our good family.
·
November 28th. Oriental Social Club, with Mrs. W. V. Scott,
Matron of their Chapter, visited with us and enjoyed some real games
and musical numbers with the children. They presented our girls with
a hand-made quilt and a good quantity of fruits and jams.
December 5th. The "Happy Family Club" of Moneta Chapter
visited the Home under the leadership of Sister· Moore, their Matron.
They left $1.00 each with our children, to be spent according to the
wishes of the child.
December 5th. Ocean Park Chapter No. 245 visited the Home.
As our children had been entertained by this generous Chapter at the
beach, they had many personal acquaintances among their numbers and
enjoyed this return call. Sister Bertha Buchanan deserves much credit
for arranging these outings..
December 5th. Ontario Chapter No. 105 with a good representation of membersl'lip, with Companion R. · D. Newton, the High Priest
of the Chapter, gave us a good visit
December 12th. Highland Park Lodge, generous and enthusiastic,
whose members are like children themselves; received one of their
usual hearty welcomes from the children on their visit to the Home.
December 20th. Columbia Chapter No. 247 of Sawtelle, California,
visited the children, and Sister Stella Waggoner presented a Masonic
Tyler's sword to the Home.
December 20th. Jasmine Chapter, 0. E. S., of Azusa has never
missed a visit to the children the Sunday before Christmas for twelve
years. The children always look forward to their packages of homemade candies.
.
December 23rd. The members of Glen Chapter of Glendora are
certainly qualifying themselves as a good neighbor and call frequently
at the Home. · This was an official visit from the Chapter.
December 31st. Fullerton Lodge No. 339 has been so frequent a
visitor to the Home ·that the children like them as neighbors, and. can·
call many of them by name: Fullerton walnuts are used in generous
quantities, as both the Lodge and Chapter supply us with them every
season.
January 16th. A number of members of Redlands Lodge and Redlands Chapter, under the leadership of our good friend, Brother J. H.
Logie, paid us a pleasant visit.
.
January 23rd. The Scottish Rite Bodies of Los Angeles are always
thoughtful of the children and provide them many diversions, but had
not visited as a body to meet the children in their own Home. On this

visit the members attended in large numbers and furnished the childr<!n
a highly instructive and entertaining program the entire afternoon.
Our friends seemed to appreciate the opportunity of mingling with the
children and learning how their little friends were caring for their own
Home.
February 13th. Visit of officers of Grand Council in ceremony of
turning over the first shovelful of earth for the construction of the
Domestic Science Cottage.
February 19th. The official visit of Effie Easton, Grand Matron of
the Eastern Star, and Grand Patron Roy Musser, with many other
Grand Officers and Matrons and Patrons of Southern California. T his
reception was conducted entirely by the children and was one of the
feature occasions of the year.
March 20th. Members and their families of East Gate Chapter .
gave the children one of their usual cordial visits and left a great many
very thoughtful presents for the dormitory rooms of our older girls.
This Chapter is very practical and very thoughtful in their assistance
to our children.
March 27th. Annual Easter trip to Camp Baldy and neighboring
points of interest. This year forty-nine of the children selected for
their physical endurance made the four-day hike with the average of
eight miles per day. They enjoyed the heavy snows of the mountains
and every moment of the trip was one of happiness and thorough appreciation. Funds from treat fund and from friends supplied unusual
refreshments and the Camp Baldy Company extended us every courtesy.
April 10th. Members of the Jinnistan Grotto Patrol with their
families gave the children a good visit presenting the boys a good baseball outfit and giving some good pictures.
April 12th. Grand Officers of the Amaranth under the leadership
of Dr. Flora Smith held a cerem·o ny of dedication of the playground
equipment given to the children by this worthy order. A beautiful
ceremony accompanied by musical numbers arranged for the occasion
added much to the beautiful settihg of the presentation of this generous
gift. The Fraternity is much indebted not only for the material evidence of the good will of the several courts of the Amaranth, but for
the good spirit they entertain toward the Home and the love they display for our children. Dr. Smith is truly a woman of wonderful personality and magnetism, and her interest in our children is deeply appreciated by every member of our big family and those entrusted with their
care.
April 24th. About fifty members of Lancaster Lodge visited the
Home and brought with them a good supply of the healthful products
of the fertile Antelope Valley.

522

.

523

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

April 24th. University Lodge No. 394, with Wilson's Jazz Orchestra and the inimitable Chester Conklin with a three-reel comedy of his
own.
April 30th. The Masonic Bodies of Redlands conveyed the children
from the Home to that city and gave them a wonderful drive over this
beautiful section. The Eastern Star gave them a delicious luncheon,
and in the afternoon the children were guests of Redlands Masons at
the Pageant, which was given to celebrate the evolution of this wonderful section from the desert to the rose.
May 1st. Southland Chapter of Pasadena entertained the children
with a May party in the summer house. Each child receive<l a pretty
hand-made May basket filled with choice fruits and candies.
May 7th. The Matrons and Patrons Association of 1920 0. E . S.
met at the Home. The Patrons formally dedicated the clubroom which
they have furnished for the boys. The evening was il most enjoyable
one and the boys showed due appreciation to the Patrons for the handsome manner in which their club room was equipped.
May 8th. It has been a custom for the past four years for Unity
Lodge of Glendale, in conjunction with other Masonic Bodies of that
city, to celebrate Mothers' Day at the Home. Each family acts as
mother to some child in the Home for that day. Basket lunches wrre
served on our lawn and suitable entertainment provided for children
and E'.Uests. Each child receives a box of candy with his name burned
011 rhe box, and Brother Henry always supplies each child and guest
with a bottle of soda.
May 15th. The San Pedro bodies of Masonry, with their ladies and
families, always set apart a . day for a visit with the children. They
are a good, live, active bunch of Masons, and the children anticipate
their visit with much pleasure.
May 29th. Ocean Park Lodge No. 369 visited the Home and provided musical and other numbers for the entertainment of the children.
After a visit through the buildings and grounds they gave the childn:n
a treat to ice cream and drinks.
June 2nd. Rising Light Lodge and Chapter of Huntington Park
came in good numbers and enjoyed the afternoon at the Home. Our
gymnasium room was opened up and some very entertaining numbers
given for the children. They presentM the girls with tennis racquets
and balls for their new court.
June 4th. The officers and members of the 53rd Masonic District,
under the directing hand of Brother D. J . Reese, held a meeting of
their association in the boys' clubroom, after which they visited the
several departments of the Home, and indulged in some active gam~;
with the children.

June 5th. Corona Lodge No. 324 of Pasadena called at the H ome
with many of their ladies, and enjoyed being guests of our children
for an afternoon.
June 11th. Through the generous and valued efforts of the Catalin:;
Circle Club, which is composed of Masons of Avalon on Catalina I sland,
about fifty of the older children of the Home were given a two-day trip
from the Home at Covina to Catalina and return. Every feature and
concession on this magic isle were turned over to the children, and they
were not permitted to make the expenditure of the moneys given to
them by other friends as pocket change for this trip. The Masons of
Avalon are deserving of every encouragement in their work, the highest praise for the relief work they have been doing, and for their
thoughtfulness in providing this wonderful trip fo r these children.
June 19th. West Lake Chapter, Eastern Star, again visited tht
children. This time for the purpose of presenting each child $1.00,
which they termed a "foolish dollar,'' that they could spend in any way
they chose while at the beach. After exchanging features of entertainment the visitors went over buildings and grounds.
June 19th. Evergreen Lodge and Ungava Chapter of Riverside
visited the Home, entertained the children and then presented the children's self-government organization $50.00 for use at the beach. T his
was overlooked at the beach season and r emains in their treasurr.
June 23rd. Jasmine Chapter of Azusa invited all the children of
the Home to be their guests at the Temple in Azusa on this evening.
The members of the Chapter called for the children in autos, gave them
a real banquet at the Temple, then assembled in the Lodge room, where
felicitations were exchanged, the members of the Chapter rendering
an excellent program and the children conferring a degree of their
"Builders 1Club."
June 24th. Our Grand Master Brother George F . Rodden and
Brother Thomas J. Baker and others visited the Home and exchanged
greetings with the children.
July 27th. On this date our children took their annual trip to
Balboa, where they remained until September 6th, enj oying a delightful summer season and operating under their self-government organization, which usually prevails at the beach.
August 20th. The Matrons and P atrons Association of the Eastern Star under the direction of Brother R. B. Lafontaine held a day
of outdoor sports in the childrens' camp at Balboa. Prizes to the
value of $50.00 were given in the swimming and diving events.
August 21 st. Los Angeles. P yramid of Sciots No. 30 brought their
families to Camp Tucker and enjoyed the full day of water and land
sports, and furnish ed the children with a bountiful lunch.

525

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINQ8 OF THE

526

Dotfl)r

DONATIONS TO COVINA HOME.

It is pleasing beyond measure to witness the favors extended
by Lodges, Chapters and Masonic bodies to our children. It is
more like neighbors exchanging courtesies. The attitude of bestowing a charity to dependents is seldom noticed. The spirit of equality
and mutual greetings between visitors and children is so evident
when visits are made and things are left (listed as donations) for
the pleasure of the children.
Many Lodges and Chapters were very generous this year.
Whittier Lodge generously contributed nearly $300.00 to furnishing the little girls' playroom, and Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 furnished rugs for the same room. Pasadena Commandery furnished
dressers for Girls room and settees for Boys clubroom. East Bay
Matrons Association of Oakland were busy all year; Long Beach,
Luceme, Harbor, Jasmine and other Chapters gave their annual
Christmas boxes with individual presents to each child. And so we
might go on, but the following list shows how generously the
children were remembered. Our Matrons have attempted to keep
the list in an accurate manner, but if an error is found we hope we
may be pardoned, as the list is fortunately a long one and some
confusion in names and Lodges will occur.

Doti/Jr

Article

Mrs. A. E. Diebold, Worthy Matron, Columbia Chapter No. 247,
0. E. S. W ,estgate............................2 qts tomatoes, 1 qt. relish, 4 pts jam
5 glasses jelly, 1 doz. fresh peaches.
South Gate Lodge No. 320................ Generous donation of fruits and jam.
Artesia Chapter No. 253.................... Many bottles jam and jellies.
·Bro. M. Wickman and Bro. Jack
Ward, South Gate Lodge No.
320 ...................:................................:...1 large chocolate cake.
Dr. Flora Smith.............................~.:....One dollar for each child. 70 children.
Mrs. 0. H. Ostlund, Grand Musician Order of the Amaranth....Ten cents for each child. 70 cliildren.
Gilman B. Merrill, Sequoia Chapter
No. 203, Redwood City..................$5.00. Records.
Officers of Grand Amaranth............Cherry flip for each child.
East Bay Matrons Association ........1 comfort.
Bro. C. Meisel, Beacon Lodge No.
3, St. Louis, Mo.........................~.......$1.00 ' Treat fund.
Bro. and Mrs. A. Vignola, Westgate Lodge No. 335........................48-13 oz. cans apricot butter.
A. Vignolo....:.......................................-36 lbs. spaghetti, prepared personally.

527

Article

Miss I. A. Garibaldi, Bro. and Mrs.
L. Vignolo, West Gate Lodge
No. 335.........................................--.48-13 oz. cans apricot butter.
So. Calif. Past Masters Asso ..........1 box apples.
Bro. R. E. Dill, South Gate Lodge
No. 320 ..............................................4 ten ounce bottles Sylmar Olive Oil.
·Bro. T: R. Giannini Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219, San Francisco ......................................................Treat Fund. $1.00.
Sunset Lodge No. 352...............- ......$4.40 Treat Fund, and 1 box apples.
Many members brought nice· quantities of fruits and jells.
Dr. and Mrs. L. L. Haight, Sunset
Lodge No. 352 ····--········-···-·······...8 glasses jelly.
Employes, American Laundry........About five dozen glasses fruits and
jam.
Buena Park Lodge No. 357, Buena
Park Chapter No. 240, O.E.S .....49 qts. fruit, 69 glasses jelly.
Dr. I. Jesse Citron, East Gate
Lodge No. 290......................:..,.......-18 glasses 'jelly.
Bro. Wm·. Hoogendyk, Covina
Lodge No. 334..................................25 W atermelons
Bro. Elwood Lee Rudolph, •Broadway Department Store.................-$1.50 for girl's, hat.
Bro. Clarence Fraser, Dinuba, Cal...3 boxes grapes, express prepaid.
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415..........Seven cents for each child, 57 qts. canned fruit, 41 glasses jelly, 22 doz.
cans peas, apricots, cherries and
peache~. 150 lbs. blackberry, apple,
strawberry, raspberry; 24 lbs. honey,
1 gal. syrup, 170 lbs. butterscotch,
45 lbs. Calamat figs, 180 lbs. Fig
bars, 24 lbs. Cal-apricots, 24 lbs.
Calorange, 100 pcs. cherry flip, 1
doz. pkgs. Bis-bis crackers.
Bro. Jacob Fogel, Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 415.................................:14 glasses jelly.
Bro. H. F. Glaze, Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 415..........................:•........7 qts. canned fruit, 6 glasses jelly.
Mrs. Fred J. Martin, Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 415....................................6 qts. fig jam.
Bro. Ed. Hait, Silver Trowel Lodge
No. 415 ..............:.................................4 qts. peach preserves.
Mrs. J. A. Barlotti, Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 415.................................. 15 qts. canned fruit.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DQ1Wf'
Article
Bro. R . S. Bacon ................................6 cups jam, 2 hats, clothing, 1 sweater,
3 wash skirts, 1 wool skirt, 1 wool
suit, 2 middies.
Bro. Guy Adams, Covina Lodge
No. 334, Covina................................135 lbs. grape fruit.
Bro. J. V. Elliot, Corona Lodge
No. 324 .................................,..............300 lbs. Casaba melons.
Bro. F. L. Hansen, 251 Kearny St.,
San Francisco......---,·--····-·-·-·--60 piano records.
Dr. Flora Smith, Grand Royal Matron, Order of Amaranth......-.--100 cherry flips.
John V. Hartel!, Souµi Gate Court
Amaranth ····························-- ·······--$10.00 Treat Fund.
W. S. Barber, South Gate Court
Amaranth ----··-----··-··-··---$10.00 Merit prizes.
Bro. J. A. Kelly, Mizpah Lodge ....$2.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. A. T. McClintock, Mizpah
Lodge --··---··-······--····---$1.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. J. J. Jones, Mizpah Lodge......$5.00 Treat Fund.
Mrs. F. C. Dixon, Mizpah Lodge....$1.00 Ti:eat Fund.
Bro. Jules Rost, Mizpah Lodge......$1.00 T reat F und.
Mrs. M. Vanderbeck, Mizpah
Lodge ................................................-! qt. canned fruit.
Bro. A. H. Petersen, Mizpah Lodge..8 glasses jelly.
Bro. C. A. Stutsman, Mizpah
Lodge - ··--·-·----·---·---···--4 glasses jelly.
Bro. A. W . Gilmore, Mizpah '
Lodge -·-···--·- --···--.-······- -$1.00 Treat Fund, 4 qts. canned fruit,
2 glasses jelly, 5 lbs. peanuts.
Mrs. J . Martin, Mizpah Lodge ..- .-1 qt. jam.
Bro. Wm. Scott, Mizpah Lodge ....1 qt. canned fruit.
Bro. A. J. Mass, Mizpah Lodge ....- .2 crocks jam.
Bro. E. H. Hotoff, Mizpah Lodge.2 gals. canned frui:.
·. Bro. R. J. Thomas, Mizpah Lodge ..4 pts. canned fruit.
Bro. G. R. Landreth, Mizpah
Lodge .................................................2 pts. canned fruit.
Bro. G. 0 . Fogleman, Mizpah
Lodge ....:...•.....................·-··········-·-3 pts. canned fruit.
Bro. J . C. Fox, Mizpah Lodge.._....5 glasses jelly.
Mrs. L. W. Hammon, Mizpah
.
Lodge ··························-···--·--·l qt. canned fruit.
Bro. Leo Claremont, Mizpah
Lodge ············------·--···-.! qt. peaches, 1 qt. jam.

Don.or
Article
Bro. J. E. Harshman, Mizpah
Lodge ···········-········-·······----- --··-2 qts. canned frui t.
Bro. W. S. Duncan, Mizpah
Lodge ··········-··············-···-·····-·---·l qt. canned fruit.
Bro. H. I. Nickleson, Mizpah ·
Lodge ................................................-2 qts. canned fruit; 1 glass jelly.
Bro. Van B. Heady, Mizpah Lodge..4 qts. canned fruit.
Wm. and Robert Watt, Mizpah
Lodge ...
lbs. peanuts.
Willard M. W ilber, Mizpah Lodge..1 guitar.
Bro. Albert Knowles, Golden Gate
Lodge No. 358 :.................................6 pts. fig jam, 2 ahocolate cakes.
Bro. J. H. Logie, Redlands................99 lbs. apples.
East Bay Matrons Asso. ·-····-····--.! comfort.
Bro. J. E. Hinds and Ralph Harris
Corona Lodge No. 324..·-·-··········- 10 lbs. candy.
Mrs. Wm. Rhodes Hervey...........:...•5 crocks jam, 19 pts. canned fruit, 22
glasses jelly.
Bridge Club N o. 2, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, 0 . E . S .............11 qts. fruit.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198...-.........2 boxes apples, 100 pieces cherry flip.
Mrs. Edith , Smith, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168 -····-- ··---..···--··-1 qt. fruit.
Bro. Jack Borchert, Oakland Lodge
No. 188 ···················-··---···-····-·····90 pieces chocola te candy. ·
Bro. W. R. Hamilton, Los Angeles.."Saturday E vening P osts."
Bro. W . E. Bush ··············- -··-····--···-1 0 lbs. potato chips, 30 lbs. radishes,
,
6Yz lbs. ripe olives.
Moneta Lodge No. 405·-·······-·····-100 drop cakes, 19 qts. canned fruit,
13 pts. jam, 31 glasses jelly, 1 can
corn, 4 bottles ginger ale, 90 lbs,
apples, 6 lbs. walnuts.
Bro. Ed. R. Forsythe, Moneta
Lodge No. 405..·-·······-···········-'········Fifty cents Treat Fund.
Bro. D. B. T egarden, Sunset Lodge
No. 352 .............................................. Fifty cents T reat Fund.
Bro. Peck ................................................$1.00 T reat Fund.
Social Circle, Moravia Chapter No.
2Z7, 0 . E . S. ........................................1 comfort.
Bro. Beeson, Huntington Park, Ris·
ing Light Lodge No. 397................ Edison phonograph, 60 reco rds.
Loyalty Chapter No. 217.....•.............6 qts. jam, 12 glasses jelly.
Bridge Club of L. A. Chapter No.
168 0. E. S. ·············-························.4 Columbia records.

528

_:_···--····-·-·-------··...3

529

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

530

Article
East Gate Lodge No. 290................. .14 qts. canned fruit, 5 pts. jam, 9
glasses jelly, 1 can corn, 1 gal. Karo
·
syrup, 9 pkgs Uneeda biscuits, 6
pkgs. gum, apples, 3 lbs. raisins and
a surprise bag for each child.
L. M. Richardson, East Gate Lodge
No. 290 ..........................: .................- ..$1.00 Treat Fund.
Kate P. McNaughton, Hig'hland
Park Chapter No. 263 ....... ~ ............$5.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. J. F. Swift, West Gate Lodge
No. 335 ...........................................•....3 sacks sweet potatoes.
Bro. Chester C. Conklin, University
Lodge No. 394 .....................- ......... lY, doz. pkgs. doublemint gum, 3 lbs.
stick candy.
East Bay Mat~ons Asso .....................2 comforts.
Bro. P. Marx, Tehachapi ................2 boxes apples.
Bro. L. A. Kutner, Pacific Lodge,
San Francisco, Cal...........................6 Grandmas gold cakes, 12 cocoanut
bars, 22 assorted cakes, 5 cans
marshmallows, 1 lb. ginger snaps,
10 pkgs. chewing gum, 11 pkgs.
Hersheys chocolate.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382........ 5 qts. canned fruit, 5 pts. jam, 6 glasses
jelly, 1 box apples, 20 lbs. chocolate
creams, 75 lbs. mixed candy.
Sister Adeline Harris, Daylight
Chapter No. 265 .....:........................1 box' apples.
Bro. M. Shane, Highland Park
Lodge No. 382 ..................................80 candy apples.
Bro. J. Allen Alcorn, Daylight
Chapter No. 265 ..............................$1.00 Treat Fund.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42................61 qts. fruit, 13 pts. jam, 1 bottle grape
juice, 5 lbs. walnuts, 6 lbs. candy
and 163 bags pop ·corn and .peanuts.
Chas U. Suydenstricker, Los Angeles, No. 42 ......................................! box apples.
Bro. J. N. Hubbard, Los Angeles
Lodge No. 42 ...................................28 glasses jelly.
Ashlar Lodge No. 306, Colton ..........41 qts. canned fruit, 11 pts. jam, 14
glasses jelly.
Bro. Fred R. Miller, Ramona Lodge
No. 457 ,...............................................2 boxes apples.
Bro. Frank G. Finlayson, Elysian
Lodge No. 418 •.....·..........................,.! doz. jars orange marmalade.
Mrs. Joseph Greene .......... ,............... 5 indoor balls and bats.

Dun.or

531

Donor
Article
Bro. A. B. Diem.er, Golden State
-· ,
Lodge No. 358 ...............-·---···-···.! zither and sheet music.
Bro. E . J. Bailey, San Diego Lodge
No. 35 ..................... _ ..........................$2.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. E. F. Whittemore, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 .....................:.....•$2.00 Treat Fund.
Sister Anna Williams, Hollenbeck
Chapter ..............................................$1.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. J. Chester Johnson, Moberly,
Mo .........................................................$1.00 Treat Fund.
Cash fro111 visitors ............ ~ .................$1.70 Treat Fund.
Gardena Chapter No. 260 ............•... 58 qts. canned fruit, 26 cans tomatoes,
6 bottles catsup, 3 pts. jam.
Mrs. Peter Feddersohn, Puente,
Cal. ......................-............................... 100 lbs. walnuts.
Martha Washington Chapter No.
13, O. E. S. Visalia ........................65 glasses jelly, 9 pts jam, 3 qts. canned fruit, 2 lbs. raisins, 4 lbs. dried
apricots.
Culver City Lodge No. 467...........:..Large quantities of fruits, jams and
jells.
Bro. A. T. Goshorn, Hollenbe.:k
Lodge No. 319 ................................ 12 qts. fruit.
Bro. W. G. Lane, Wilshire Chal)ter
No. 329 .............................................$5.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. R. D. Newton, Ontario ............$1.00 Treat Fund.
Cash ...................................................._.• Seventy-five cents Treat Fund.
Wilshire Lodge No. 445 ................... Fruits, nuts and jells.
La Puente Chapter ...........................Jam, fruit and nuts.
Bro. Neil C. Needham, West Lake
· Lodge No. 392 .................................. Goose and turkey.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452 ............2 boxes apples, 50 qts. jam and fruit,
26 pts. jam, 42 glasses jelly, 19 cans
frtii t.
Bro. F. D. Caldwell, Artesia .......... ..2 crates sweet potatoes.
Bro. W. J. Robinson, San Pasqual
Lodge No. 452 ............................. _Roasting pan for kitchen.
Bro. W. L. Duggan, Santa Ana......$8.05. Treat Fund.
:Marysville Chapter No. 55 ................ZY, lbs. candy, 53 books, 6 boxes, paper
dolls, 9 toys, 3 lbs. nuts, 1 ho.it
cracker jack, 5 games, 2 dolls, 1
candle, 9 qts. fruit, 9_ glasses jelly,
3 cans fruit.
University Chapter No. 356 ..............Thanksgiving Treat $10.00.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

532

DoNir ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Article

west Gate Chapter No. 290................Thru Bro. Which er for Thanksgiving
·
festivities $50.00.
Ramona Lodge No. 457 and Ramona Chapter No. 367, O. E. S .....12 qts. jam, 32 qts. fruit, 32 glasses
jelly.
Oriental Social Club .........................S qts. jelly, 4 qts. jam, 5 qts. fruit, 1
quilt.
John N. Kuehn, Upland Lodge
No. 419 ..............._.....................:...........$1.00 Treat Fund.
Happy Family Club of Moneta
.
Chapter No. 315, O. E. S.............$63.00 Treat Fund, 12 gals. fruit, 18
'
glasses jelly.
Ontario Chapter No. 105....................$38.65 Treat Fund.
Bro. C. H. Lee, Azusa ......................$1.00 Treat Fund.
Mr. C. M. Marleau and Mrs.
Wright Conklin, Moneta Lodge
and South Gate Lodge .............,....155 wash rags.
Miscellaneous Treat Funds ..............$3.25.
Bro. Perry W ddner, Los Angeles..100 lbs. walnuts. .
Mrs. A. M. Sheldon ..........................-70 Christmas stockings for toys.
Manchester Knitting Mills, L. A .....20 skull caps, 1 boys sweater, 11 tam
· 'o shanters, 2 girls' caps.
Mrs. Fannie Hart, 1019 Bonnie
.
j, .
Brae St., Los Angeles, Cal.............2 boxes white crochet cotton.
Bakersfield Scottish Rite Club........ Christmas Fund $25.00.
East Bay Matrons Asso., Oakland..2 cretonne quilts and 2 knitted wash
rags.
Visitor ....................................................Twenty-five cents to small boy.
Harry D. Naterman ............................2 boxes toys, dolls, books.
Mr. and Mrs. Hilpert ........................2 dolls.
Mr. Von Stein, Pomona ........•.........Flute, Piccolo.
Bro. L. M. Rennaker, Azusa ...:......$5.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. McQuistion ............................- ..$5.00 Treat Fund.
Mrs. J . M. Hutchinson, Highland
Park Lodge No. 382 ...................... Advertising cards.
.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382..........568 glasses jelly, 55 q~s. canned fru.1t, 6
crocks jam, 45 pts. iam, 56 cans Jam.
Employees General
Petroleum
· Corp........:-···-·······-··-·:......................108 glasses jelly.
Mrs. o. A. Ward, Corona ................Assorted toys.
Arlington Lodge No. 414•.................124 pts. jelly, 9 qts. fruit, 30 glasses
jelly.
Elysian Chapter No. 354....................2 qts. canned fruit.
Mr. Orton Hoxie ..............................-8 qts. fruit, 2 gals. pickles.

Don.tJr

533

Article

Mr. E. Shouler, \Vest Lake Lodge
No. 392 .........................................--1 box oranges.
Mr. Crocker ....................--····-·-·2 bags candy.
University Lodge No. 394 _.............. Cash donation $65.00, 24 lbs. chocolate candy.
Mr. and Mrs. Hubbard Arlington
Lodge No. 414 ·················-··-·-·····-1 box dried apricots.
F. B. Silverwood, Southern California 278 ......;................................-100 boxes candy.
Elysian Chapter N 354 ....................7 gingham dresses, ribbons, ties for
each child, 9 camisoles, 35 paper
books (juvenile).
Harbor Chapter No. 174 San
Pedro --···-·-·---···--·····.........Miscellaneous gifts for each child.
Kingsburg Chapter No. 312 --··-··..2 boxes cherry flips, 24 lbs.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145, Azusa ....62 lbs. candy.
Pasadena Chapter No. 108 ................ Miscellaneous toys, 1 pail apples,
small quantity almonds, 28 lbs. mixed candy, 92 candy boxes.
Jinnistan Grotto No. 57 ..................3 base ball bats, 24 balls, 6 fielders
gloves, 3 mitts.
Mrs. P. F. Smith, Marysville Chapi
ter .....................................;..................20 lbs. candy.
Miss Olson, 1424 De Long St.
4 toys.
Techachapi Lodge No. 313 and
Tehachapi Chapter No. 183 ........6 hammers, 6 planes, 3 saws, 12 pocket
knives, 6 knives and chains, 1 box
apples, 6 qts. fruit, 10 pts. canned
fruits, 1 pt. jelly, 1 glass jelly, 28
cans jam.
Mill Valley Chapter No. 219, 0. E.
S., Mill Valley, Calif. ................~..17 glasses jelly, 4 pts. jam.
Mizpah Chapter No. 100....................25 glasses jelly, 4 qts. canned fruit, 1
can jam.
Columbia Chapter No. 247, Saw. telle ......................................................1 set "Book of Knowledge" readers
guide, 1 box sewing sundries, 12
lbs. chocolates, 1 lb. walnuts, 3
glasses jelly.
Wilsons School, Sawtelle, Sloyd
Department ........................................Made especially for the Home, 3
wooden horses, seven wooden whirligigs.
Mrs. Stella Waggoner, Columbia
Chapter No. 247 .........................~ ....Tyler's sword.

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Dotl{)r
Article
Sewing Club of Columbia Chapter
No. 247 ···························--···-··-16 books.
Mrs. Albert Hubbel, 'Columbia
Chapter No. 247 ·---···-~·-··--······-1 small quilt.
Charter Oak Citrus .(\ssociation......2 boxes oranges, 10 small boxes card,s
and papers.
Long Beach Shriners Club -···········.100 lbs. chocolate candy, 35 lbs. h~rd
triangle candy. $1.00 to each child.
Broadway Department Store ........_35 lbs. jelly beans.
Flora M. Cook, Matron and James
M. Marshall, Patron ·········-········-··40 lbs. mixed candy, personal donation.
Long Beach Chapter No. 173 ..........$65.00 to children and $10.00 treats.
Arroyo Lodge No. 247, Arroyo
Grande ······-----·-······-···········-·····---100 lbs. walnuts.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322, Chapter
No. 100, Commandery No. 48.._ ...1 velvet rabbit, 6 skipping ropes, 2
indoor, balls, 8 rubber balls, 2 base
balls,.1 game indoor horse shoe, fish
pond game, 1 wide world game, 1
karum board, 2 ball bats, 2 medicine
balls, 1 large and 1 small, 1 large
croquet set.
Mrs. Mary Sherwood ........................2 cans fruit, personally.
Matrons, Patrons, Trailers Asso.
1919 ··-···············-······························-·Seth Thomas clock, 3 bureau scarfs,
for dormitory room. $15.00 cash for
three girls.
Glen Chapter No. 357 ·····----···-·········.IS pts. jam, 1 gal. fruit, 6 qts. jam,
13 glasses jelly.
Rising Light Chapter and Auxil-1 quilt, 8 lbs. can?y, 7 _lbs. ~alnuts, 10
iary No. 286 Huntington Park...... pts. canned fruit, 9 Jars Jelly, $1.00,
apples, 4 games, 100 home made
scrap books, 7 odd books, 2}/a doz.
o ranges, 3 lbs. popcorn.
Mrs. Haidee Albert ............................'> dressed dolls.
.
Mrs. H.J. Fitschen .........................- ..4 dressed dolls, crochet outfits, 1 b?ok,
2 baskets, 2 boxes crayons, 2 strings
of beads, 2 enamel pins.
. Yorba Linda Chapter No. 437 ..........26 qts. canned fruit, 6 pts. jelly, 6 cans
fruit, 3 crocks jam, 3 lbs. walnuts.
Ramona Lodge No. 457, Alhambra..2 boxes candy canes.

GRAND I,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dotl{)r

535

Article

Culver City Lodge ..............................$4.00 cash, 2 suits clothes, 2 ties, 2
shirts, 2 pr. hose, 2 watches, 2 mec·
cano sets, 2 caps.
Merribee Club of Culver City ........ Aluminum set for Domestic Science
Bldg., 2 pr. shoes, 81 Christmas
stockings.
Lewis Kent, Poway •.......................•...25 lbs. raisins.
Lucerne Chapter 0. E. S., No. 127,
Hanford .........................................•.._l box apples, 20 lbs. raisins, 35 lbs.
candy and an individual gift for
each child.
Fred J. Young, Manager, Cunningham, Curtis and Welch, Los Angeles ····-··-··-··························-········-220 games, 72 tops, 2 boxes toys.
Mrs. Eva Boyd and D. Jessurum,
Matron and Patron of Liberty
Court No. 34, Order of Amaranth
Anaheim ............................................48 glasses jelly.
Mrs. Fred Walter, Highland ............
Park Chapter ·········--·:·-·-·-··········-···-1 kewpie.
Mrs. George Waller, Taft Chapter
No. 337, Taft ·································-·1 box boys used clothes, 1 box girls
used clothes, 5 lbs. candy, 2 boxes
ginger snaps.
Kingsburg Chapter, No. 312 ............20 qts. fruit, 1 glass jelly, 1 pt. jelly,
2 pts. fruit, 11 qts. peaches, 20 lbs.
raisins.
J. A. Crawford, General Petroleum
Company, Los Angeles ............•...12 lbs. candy.
Shrine Christmas Committee ........28 loaves ,bread, 2 boxes sandwiches.
Mr. Benriie Cohn, Moneta Lodge
No-. 405 ................................................$65.00. Cash. $1.00 for each child.
Mr. S. K . Lehman, Los Angeles
Lodge No. 42 ···-- -·············-.Zl glasses marmalade.
Molino Chapter No. 83, Tehama __ 5 lbs. honey.
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Jackson, Highland Park No. 382 ............................!()() lbs. peanuts.
Alhambra Commandery No. 48 and
Alhambra Chapter No. 100 ..........42 lbs. apples, S lbs. popcorn .
Southwest Chapter No. 345, 0. E.
S. National City -··························-6 tennis balls,· 2 foot baits, 6 base balls.
Mr. M. Leonhardt, Covina ...........•....105 lbs. dates.
·
T. H . . Harmon, Gold Run_ ..............2 boxes apples.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

536

Article
Donor
Corona Chapter No. 107, San Luis
Obispo ··-···-···....................................24 lbs. walnuts, 2 boxes apples.
Alta Vista Court Amaranth No. 29,
San Francisco ·················-··········-··-35 glasses jelly.
Mizpah Chapter No. 100 0. E. S.,
Santa Maria ··········-··················-····-10 glasses . jelly, 6 pts. jam, 1 crock
jam, 9 qts. fruit.
Mildred Crum, Esperato ....:.............15 home made scrap books.
East Bay Matrons Association ........10 lbs. fruit cake. ·
Mr. Townsend ................................- ....English pound cake.
.
Molino Chapter No. 83, Tehama •...,11 qts. canned fruit, 2 . qts. p1ckl~s,
can apple butter, 2 cans fruit,
i
·1 · ' btl. catsup, 3 lbs. candy, 3 doz.
I
I
c;
'
r-::-1 candies, 2 doz. nuts and figs, 4 lbs.
·, .. ., . •, ) : ..~ 4·~· . : ·-·~
r~. .
popcorn, 12 games, 1 box toys, and
~1 marbles, 6 paper books.
Mrs. j. I. Youles, M. D. Howbie
and Mrs. A. W. Chase, Molino
Chapter No. 83, 0. E. S .................l ribbon, 2 hdkfs, 2 qts, fruit, 2 pr.
hose, 2 pts. fruit.
Pasa Robles Lodge No. 286 ..............15 lbs. nuts, 1 box apples.
Temple Club, Vallejo ..:...................-350 small boxes candy'. ~ bbl. Christmas stockings conJammg nuts and
raisins.
Pearl Chapter, No. 147, 0. E. S.,
Compton ......................................- ..-12 qts. fruit, 2 pts. jam, 2 glasses
·
jelly.
Mr. Archie Brown, Mrs. Daisy M.
Brown and Mrs. L. M. Crosthwaite Garvanza Chapter No. 266,
o. E. S. ..................................:.............4 qts. fruit, 1 pt. jam, 6 glasses jelly.
Olive Growers Association, Oroville ...............;....................................6 gals. ripe olives.
N . A. King, 0 . E. S., 312, Kingsburg ..............................................:.......100 lbs. raisins.
M. Hilton, 1130 W . 20th St., Los
Angeles ..............................................! book.
Oscar S. Balzer, care Hamburger
an d S ons, L os A nge 1es ........,....... 1 box. of Mentor and National Geographic magazines.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379, Fillmore.... l box apples, 1 pox pears, 66 qts.
canned fruit, · 4 pts. jam, 3 lbs. walnuts, 2 glasses jelly, 200 lbs. walnuts.

'i

·1
. . h.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

537

Donor
Article
Pacific Wholesale Grocery Co .........3 lbs. Strawberries in fruit jelly, 3 lbs.
Blackberries in fruit jelly, 10 bis.
currant and apple jelly. ·
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 ............2 jars preserves.
West Gate Lodge No. 335 •..•...•,...7 lbs. broken mixed candy.
Herman Seigel, Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 415 .................................. 10~ lbs. mixed candy.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339 ................13 glasses jelly, 3 glasses jam, 3 pts.
jelly, 18 pts. jam, 16 qts. fruit, 15
qts. jam, 5 crocks jam, 2 tins fruit,
1 box candy, 314 lbs. walnuts.
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291 ............ 17 cans spaghetti and chili, 6 cans
beans, 4 cans olives, 1 can chicken;
4 glasses jelly, 1 pt. jam, 2 qts.
jam, 9 qts. fruit, 1080 lbs. walnuts.
Copo de Oro Chapter No. 142, Redlands ....................................................
Mrs. 0. B. Risher ...........................! jar marmalade.
Mr. and Mrs. E. Callahan ................1 jar fig jam.
Mr. and Mrs. Chappelka ....................! jar fig preserves.
Miss Chappelka ................................_1 jar apricots.
Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Johnson ............1 jar olives.
Van N uys Lodge No. 450 and
Chapter No. 338 ..............................43 qts. fruit, 5 qts. jam, 6 pts. jam,
4 pts. fruit, 1 pt. pickles, 8 glasses
jelly, 2 glasses jam, 1 glass fruit.
Mrs.. Lane, Carnation Chapter• No.
171, R edondo ................................_..! box candy fo r girls.
Miss Ethel Grumm, Carnation
Chapter No. 171 ...................~........$1.00 Treat Fund.
Bridge Club No. 2, Los Angeles
Chapter No. 168, Los Angeles....S books, 14 records.
Chester Conklin ..................................! carton gum.
East Bay Matrons A sso., Oakland..! blue and white cretonne quilt, 5
comforters.
Dr. and Mrs. George F. Rodden,
San Rafael .............................- ...........2 magazine subscriptions.
Coronado Lodge No. 441 ................3 kewpies, 2 boys coats, 4 dresses, 1
box celluloid dolls, 4 pr. hose, 1
doll, 2 boys ~hirts, 2 boys caps, 2
pr. socks, 2 boys waists, 1 bathing
suit, 3 night gowns, 3 pr. bloomers,
7 summer union suits, 2 jersey
sweaters, 1 belt, 2 boys colla rs,
asso rted toys,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

S38
~~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
A~k

Coronado Dry Goods Co., and
Chula Vista Dry Goods Co. ........8 toy boxes, 1 box tiny dolls, 1 set
blocks, 1 toy train, 1 toy mill, 2
toy carpenter machines, 3 boys
caps, S boys ties, 2 khaki shirts, 1
pr. khaki pants, 2 books.
Coronado Lodge No. 441 ................19 text books, (old) 38 story books,
1 Shakespeare's Play "Mr. Seaberg,"
"Art Craft for Young Folks".
East Bay Matrons Association........2 cretonne comforters.
Newell Brown ..............-........................10 lbs. assorted chocolates.
Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Wright, 1207
W. SSth Street, Los Angeles ........ Members of Sunset Lodge and South
Gate Chapter. Individual cornacopiea, boxes for each child. (Candy
and nuts)
Mr. W. E. Ward, 719 S. Bdwy.......
Mrs. T. L. Tuck ........:.............- ............ S cornacopias boxes of candy.
Coronado Dry Goods Co. ··········-······8 boys cotton shirts.
Upland Chapter No. 346 ..................16 qts. fruit, 1 qt. tomatoes, 2 qts.
jam, 1 glass jelly. $1.00 Treat
Fund.
Mrs. Hervey of Scottish Rite ........10 pts. fruit.
East Bay Matrons Association ......3 small girls kimonas.
Inglewood Chapter, No. 319 ..........8 qts. assorted pickles, 1 bottle salad,
mustard, 1~ gals. jelly, 1~ gals.
jam, 9 qts. jam, 9 qts. fruit, 9 qts,
jelly.
Redlands Lodge No. 300.............-.....10 boxes apples, ( 433 lbs) 1 crock
.
jam, 2 · qts. fruit, 3 pts. jam, 1 pt.
pickles, 4 pts. fruit, 11 glasses jelly,
1 can soup.
Upland Members ················-················$ 2.SO Treat Fund.
E. Benjamin Saito ....................................... -;.. 10.00
.,
"
Mrs. G. Maybury ...............................a........ 1.00
"
O. P. Richards ................:.......................... 1.00
"
Upland Chapter .................................... 1.00 "
"
Mrs. Bunker ..................................................
.50
''

"
Cash ···············- ······································· ·so "
RedJands Lodge and Chapter ........$14.0S Treat Fund.
Mrs. Corwin, Los Angeles Chapter No. 168 ··········-····························Fifty cents Treat Fund.

S39

Donor
Article
Scottish Rite of Los Angeles ........9 glasses jelly, 1 qt. melon pickle, 2
qts. fruit, SS bananas, 1 box avacados, 2 boxes apples, 1 bag stuffed
dates, 2 lbs. white figs, dried, 3 lb.
box stuffed figs, dates and walnuts.
R. A. Brown, Pentalpha Lodge No.
202 ··-···-·····-··-~·-······-····················-··Box of oranges.
George M. Adair, 1147 S. Flower
St., Los Angeles ..........................-.) box noise balloons.
Archie M. Kidd, Midway, treat ......$1.00.
East Bay Matrons Association ........4 quilts, 2 wash cloths.
F . A. Want, Mizpah ······-······---···-·$11.00.
H. W. McLeod ······-············-····-···-·$6.00.
Bro. C. J. Lawson, San Jacinto No.
338 ··································-··..·-·······-··$1.00.
Bros. H. M. Holker and J . M. Rice,
Mizpah Lodge No. 378 -··---···--.! box apples.
Bridge Club No. 2, Los Angeles
Chapter .................... _......-·-····-·--§ qts. marmalade, 7 bottles marmalade, 22 glasses marmalade, 9
pt.
glasses jelly, 6 pts. fruit,
tomato sauce.
Bro. C. V. Hover, Ocean Park No.
369 ........................................................4 jars jam.
South Gate Lodge No. 320 ............ Food from banquet.
Henry Kim, Highland Park Lodge
No. 382 Los Angeles ....................Treat Fund $2.00.
Br o. Stockley ........................................Treat Fund $1.00.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307 ........26 qts. jam, 1 qt. jam, 1 qt. fruit, 7
pts. jam, S cans jam, cookies and
doughnuts.
Bro. H . M. Omar, Cor onado Lodge
No. 441 ..............................................14 shirts.
Bro. Williams, Pomona Lodge ........$2.00 Treat Fund.
Bakersfield Chapter No. 12S ............ Dried peaches, raisins, 4 comforters;
O nisba Chapter .................................... lS vol umes of "Childrens H our,'' $1S.00
Treat Fund.
Bro. James C. Green, Mizpah, and
Bro. Pitman, Hollywood ............Electric hair clipper, box candy.
East Bay Matrons Association ........2 com forters, 3 wash cloths.
•·
Mr. G. M. W eismeyer, S239 Vir. ginia Ave., Los Angeles and H.
J
P. · Mole, Los Angeles ....................$2.00 Treat Fund.
·· ~' h

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DoMr .
Article
County of Los Angeles .•.....;.......... _.21 short weight loaves-Pomona, 54
short weight loaves-Covina.
Mrs. J. E. Harshman, 2007 Preston
Ave.; Los Angeles ............................4 balls crochet cotton, 4 strands embroidery cotton.
Mr. and ,Mrs. Warren, 5503 DeLongpre Ave., Los Angeles ........2 crocks jam, 49 glasses jelly, 2 cans
jam, boxed of used clothing and
toys.
Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Farh, Paso
Robles ..,.......:....:......:.........................6 qts. pears, 12 qts. plums.
Friend of Dr. J . M. Dunsmoor ........$1.20 Treat Fund.
A Friend .....:..........................................$1.15 Treat Fund.
Union. Lodge No. 58, Sacramento.... Money left over from banquet, $6.61
Baldy treat.
J. H . Logie, Redlands Lodge No.
300 ........................................................$10.00 Treat Fund.
West Gate Chapter No. 268..............$2.00 Treat Fund.
East Gate Chapter No. 225 ..............8 qts. preserves, 9 glasses jelly, many
toys, games, books, easter baskets,
etc.
F. B. Comfort, University Lodge
No. 394 ..............................................5 records, 4 doz. carnations.
Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Holabird,
Souther.n California, No. 278 ........ Books for library.
Ramona Chapter No. 97, 0 . E. S ...$9.00 for Camp · Baldy Trip.
W. T: Bond, Brooklyn No. 225:.......$25.00 for Camp Baldy trip.
~· H. Naegle and Wm. J. Crosby,
,j
• Highland Park Lodge No. 382....0ne case eggs for Easter.
Bridge Club No. 2 of Los Angeles
Chapter ...........................................-5 victrola records.
Found at Camp Baldy ......................Ten cents Treat Fund.
County Department of Weights and
Measures ...............:..........-:...............37 loaves of bread.
Visitors .......~ ........."...".............................. Fifty cents Treat Fund.
East Bay Matrons Association ........4 comforters.
South Gate· Lodge No. 320 ....,.........Supplies from banquet.
Miss ·Freda Faris ..................................2 glas·s es marmalade, 6 glasses jelly,
·
2 qts. quince.
Jinnistan Grotto Patrol .................... Baseball outfit, 3 fielders mitts.
Tom Wilson and Grotto Boys ........Moving picture.
J. T. Cordes, Ramona No. 457........$1.00 Treat Fund.
Friend ........................:...........:.............-Fifty cents Treat Fund.

. DoMr
. Article
Ventura Chapter No. 79....................3 qts. canned fru1°t. • 6 p t s. Jam,
·
5
glasses jelly.
Arthur Faget, 545 Howard St., San
Francisco ...................:.·-·············-····.12 lb. box glaced fruit.
101 Club of San Francisco .............. 10 doz. _b ottles soda and 10 lbs. special
cookies.
·
·
A. W. Gluckman, Marysville, No.
3 .......,.:...................................................$5.00 Treat Fund.
Mr. Paul Harris, 211 E. 1st St.; .
Long Beach ......................................$1.00 Treat Fund.
C. E. Johnson, 1047 Locust St.,
Long Beach ...................................:.~$1.00 Treat Fund.
Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Swartz, Pen1
talpha Lodge No. 202 ....................2 pts. jam.
Lyman Clark, Upland ........................3 glasses jelly.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Kunow, Highland Park Lodge No. 382 ............4 qts. fruit, 8 glasses jelly,
Mrs. E . T. Hubbard, Los 'Angeles....$1.00 Treat Fund.
J. H. Frances, Silver Gate No. 296..$1.00 Treat Fund.
I ,
Mrs. F. W. _Taylor, University'
Chapter No. 350 .............................. Box of cup cakes.
Brother Doan, Lancaster .............-.$1.00 Treat Fund.
Lancaster Lodge No. 437 ................34 qts. jam and fruit, 14 jars fruit, 5
pts. jam, 2~ gals. honey,
University Lodge No. 394 ................Two reel picture, bunch bananas.
.
.two phonograph records.
Bro. A. B. Echler, Midway No. 426.. Box of apples.
Bro. W. E. Mills, Lancaster No.
437 ........................................................Thirty cents Treat Fund.
A. F. Hanson, Oakland ......................Seventy-five cents Treat Fund.
Burr H. Prentice, San Diego ............78 dishes ice cream.
Chester Conklin, University ............ Box chewing gum.
Sierra Madre, 0. E. S. Club ............ 4 bungalow aprons.
N. Targilliers, Ontario Lodge........ 10 lbs. fine chocolates.
Friend ......................................................Twenty-five cents Treat Fund.
Found in plunge ..................................Twenty-five cents Treat Fund.
Change left over from Wollenberg
treat ············:···············•·······················Seventy cents Treat F'und.
East Bay Matrons Association ........4 comforted, 1 apron.
1920 Matrons and Patrons Asso ..... Boys furniture for club room.
Mr. and Mrs. Lane, Wilshire Chapter ...................................:....................$4.00 cash to Myrtle.
Bro. Henry, Unity Lodge No. 368..6 cases Sierra Club gingerale and soda.

540

i

541

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Doner
Article
Mr. and Mrs. Killin, 387 Highland
Park Ave., Los Angeles ............-$1.00 Treat _F und.
Mrs. Risdon, Hollenbeck Chapter..4 qts. fruit.
F. W. Chambers, Unity Lodge........$1.00 for base ball outfit.
Mrs. ·E. J. Morgan, 204, E. 12th St.,'
J
Kansas City ................:..................... Fifty cents Treat Fund.
Friend .......................•..:...........................Sixty-_five cents to boys.
Mr. and Mrs. Helpingstine, Pasadena ...............................................:......$1.00 Treat Fund.
Mrs. McKay, Glendale ...................... Fifty cents Treat Fund.
Dr. J. P. Henderson, Hollenbeck,
No. 319 :...............................................$1.00 Treat Fund.
San Bernardino Bodies .c••••••.••••••••_.••••$103.20.
Golden West Commandery No. 43.. Meats, etc from banquet.
East Bay Matrons Association........ 34 hdkfs. crocheted edges.
E. C. ~ouquet, Santa Monica
Lodge No. 307...........................,........1 guitar.
A. E. Sterling, Jr., Long Beach
Lodge No. 327, M. L. Whaley,
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369 ........3 pts. marmalade.
J. R. Jackson, Highland Park
Lodge No. 382, Los Angeles ........3 crates cherries.
C. C. Elkins, Jr., Fillmore Lodge
No. 379 ...............:....._........................•! jar honey.
E. P. Ingmire, San Pedro Lodge
No. 332 ..............................................20 lbs. stick candy.
1
Clark H . Shaw, Long Beach Lodge
No. 327 ......................................, .........1 box gum.
I v~r Davies, Magnolia Lodge No.
242 ............................•.,.........................2 glasses jelly.
Geo. A. Miller, Magnolia Lodge
No. 242 ...:............................................3 qts. canned fruit.
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192..........l crate cheJ,"ries, 1 bag cherries.
D. J. Reese, San Buenaventura
!
.
Lodge No. 214 ............_..:................... ! victrofa record.
Officers of Lodge of 53rd District..! victrola.
J. J. MacGregor, San Buenaventura
Lodge N·o. 214 ..................................2 victrola records.
C. R. Depue, Bell Lodge U. D .........5 ·lbs. stick candy.
Mr. and Mrs. Barr, Rising Light
· Lodge No. 397 ...........•...............,.......$1.50 Treat Fund.
Walter S. Piper, Rising Light
Lodge No. 397 ...................•.............. ! qt. tomato preserves.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

543

Doner ·
Article
Master Frederick Kelly, Mizpah
Lodge No. 378 ···········-···············-··..2 lb. box candy.
Geo. W. Marchand, Rising Light
Chapter No. 286 ·······················-·······3 lbs. candy.
Mrs. J . S. Shoemaker, Rising Light
Chapter 286 ...................................... ! jar fruit.
Wm.. A. Sprager, Rising Light,
Lodge No. 397 ······················-··········5 lbs. salted peanuts.
Mrs. Leigh B. Pearce, Downey,
l
Lodge No. 220 ····························-·Twenty-five cents Treat Fund.
Mrs. W. D. Piper, Rising Light,
I
Lodge No. 397 ..................................Twenty-five cents Treat Fund.
Harry Molin, Mizpah Lodge No.
378 ........................................................$3.00 Treat Fund.
S. W. Lingard, Corona Lodge No.
324 .......:.........,....~ .................................$1-.00 Treat Fund.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397 ..........Spending money for Catalina trip,
$33.25.
Mrs. L. K. Green, Ocean Park
Chapter No. 245 .............................. ! pt. fruit.
Mrs. S. E. Hill, Ocean Park ............2 pts. jam, 3 glasses jelly.
Mr. and Mrs. S. D. Wheeler, Ocean
Park Chapter No. 245 ..........- ........ ! jar jam.
Mrs. B. G. Hurlburt, Ocean Park
Chapter No. 245 .............................. ! qt. jam, 1 pt. jelly.
Mrs. Ada Verge, Ocean Park Chapter No. 245 .................:.............- ..•.... ! qt. jam.
Mrs. Mustard, Ocean Park Chapter 245 ................................................2 jars jam.
Mr. J. E. Hult, Rising Light Chapter No. 286 .......................................! crock jam.
Mrs. W. B. Alexander ......................! crock jam.
Howard Whyler ............................:.....3 pts. jam, 3 glasses· jelly.
Mr. E. Malley, Mr. Sinclair ............48 cans jam.
Miss Anna Williams, Hol1enbeck
Chapter ·················-············--········•··$1.00 Treat Fund.
F . B. Drake, 1344 5th Ave., S. F •.... 1 box of books.
Mr'. Chester Conklin, University
. Lodge No. 394 ................................_! box candy, 1 box gum.
Sierra Madre Chapter No. 299........9 bungalow aprons.
Mrs. Walker, Sierra Madre Chap·
ter ........................................................Childrens. clothing,
Mrs. Kitt, Sierra Madre .................. Dress.

544

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
~RAND LODGE

Donor
Article
East Bay Matrons Association ........3 aprons, 1 middie, 17 dresser covers,
.
• u"..~\ \ ~il~1\1~1i\, \i\1\\ 1 \ \\\l\,l ' 33 pillow cases.
C. L .Cross, Secretary, Order of
Amaranth, Needles ....;..................... Box of canned fruit.
Catalina Circle Club :.........................Expenses and transportation to Catalina.
.
Chester Conklin, University Lodge
No. 394 .........;.............;....................__ Box of gum.
East Bay Matrons Association ···-···5 pillow cases..
Mrs. W. Hollowpeter, S. F . ............Fifty-five cents Treat Fund.
Mrs. M. L. Curzon, 4060 S. Beaudry St., Los Angeles ......................189 piano pieces (sheet music).
West Lake Chapter No. 268............27 qts. fruit, 2qts. honey, 27 qts. jelly,
12 pts. canned fruit, $1.00 for each
child. $4.00 Treat Fund.
Evergreen Lodge No. 259, and Ungava Chapter No. 106, Riversid.e..17 qts. fruit, 40 qts. jam, 13 glasses
jelly, 4 qts. honey, 4 qts. walnuts,
toys, games, books, dolls.
W. M. Oatley, 541 W. 5th St.
Riverside ················-·······-···-········-·1 package paper dolls.
F' B. Comfort, University Lodge'
i I
394 ··············-········-··············-···--····.:z boxes cherries.
Mrs. Ida Townsend, 1355 Orange
St., Los Angeles ·················- ···········Fifty cents Treat Fund.
T. H. Hilliker 416 California Blvd.,
Los Angeles ······················-··········--Fifty cents Treat Fund.
W. A. Morgan, Evergreen Lodge
Riverside ······························-··-··..:....$5.00 T~eat Fund.
Mr. and Mrs. G. M. Miller, 523 S.
Bixel St., Los Angeles ········-·······.4 5-lb. boxes candy. Fifteen cents
Treat Fund.
W. C. . Grubb, Bisbee, Arizona........$5.00 Treat Fund.
L. D. Wallenstein, Pomona ............10 lbs. chocola.tes and bonbops.
Claudius M. Johnson, Angelus Art
Shop, Los Angeles ..........................46 applique patterns, 1 sheet of patterns, 27 dresser covers, 6 ap~ons
for small girls.
J. K. Fleming, H. T. Davis, Long
Beach -····..······-··················-····•·······-10 ·records, 3 lbs. candy.
Mr. Harry Mole, West Gate Lodge
No. 335 •.......;;...:...:.............;~..;......~......2 0 .- gal. jars pickled figs.
Mr. C. W. Worth, 5526 Hollywood
Blvd ·················-···············-··-··-····97 bags peanuts, $1.00 Treat Fund.

OF CALIFORNIA

545

Donor
Article
· Mrs. G. B. Bish, Pasadena .............. 15 glasses jelly.
Mrs. Ethel Bish, Pasadena - ............ 1 cake.
Mrs. D. J . Brownstein, West Lake
Lodge No. 335 ..................................4 hats, magazines, 4 sets line-erie, 3
boys shirts, 1 collar, 1 hdkf, l cap,
1 sash ribbon, 1 serge suit, 1 pr.
pants, 13 pr. socks, 1 tie, 1 boys
coat, 1 boys hat, 1 crepe dress, 1
gray suit, 1 pr. boys shoes, 3 boys
union suits, serge goods.
Brother F. B. Drake ·····················-···2 books.
Mrs. W. H. Dunn, Madisonville. ......$1.25 Treat Fund.
Bro. W. A. Sherman, Presidio No.
254 ......:.................................................2 boxes marshmallows.
Mr. Cogan, Santa Ana ........................! sack . oranges.
Candy Kitchen, Balboa Beach .......... 5 lbs. peanuts.
Sciots, San Francisco Pyramids......200 lbs. chocolate creams.
Mrs. Lottie Goodell, Covina ............ Box of jam.
East Bay Matrons Association ........9 dresser scarfs and 2 dresses.
Riverside Chapter No. 336, GuerneI
ville, Cal ............................................3 boxes apples.
Southland Social Club, Pasadena....2 lawn swings.
Mrs. Ida Sievers, Pomona .............._S jars marmalade.
Mr. H. E. Knowlton, Puente ..........! sack apples.
Mr. Clevinger, Santa Ana..................2 boxes plums, sack cucumbers.
Mr. F. I. Phillips, Ramona Lodge....3 boxes fruit.
Court Berry .....................:-..................! box apples.
Mrs. Walter Durgin, W. 8th St.,
Los Angeles ......................................3 outing flannel gowns.
Friend ......................................................$1.00 Treat Fund.
Roy Musser, Royal Patron .............. _Treat through Helen Gilliam $5.00.
Frank Lehan, 113 Story Bldg., Los
Angeles .................•...........................$1.00 Treat Fund.
Matrons and Patrons Association..Swimming prizes.
Emroy Evers ........................................$3.00 Treat Fund.
Bro. Z. T. Stoney, Alhambra .....'....,..2 bottles peaches.
Bro. J . J. Jones .............'..........::.......:...t qt.' apricots.
Br~. F. M. Beardsley, Azusa ..........1 box peaches.
Sc1ots, Los Angele"s Pyramid No.
.
30 :.~ ......:...'..~..'.'.....:....'...'.........................Basket lunch soda pop ice cream for
.
......
all childre~. 11 bo~es peaches, 2
· · · ..
boxes plums, 12 qts. fruit and jelly.
Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor ..........................20 melons.
·
Bro: Henry Glendale ..........................3 cases Sierr~ Club,

S46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donor
Article
Bro. F. B. Comfort, University
Lodge No. 394 ·······················---13 watermelons.
F. C. Spear, Oakley, California........3 sacks walnuts.
Sciot Boosters ············-········-·······-·····$8.06 Treat Fund.
COVINA CHRISTMAS COLLECTIONS

W. L. Duggan, Santa Ana No. 241....~...........................................$ 8.0S
J. H. Sederlund, Artesia No. 377.................................................... 6.00
San Fernando Lodge No. 343.......................................................... S.00
Frank Hassfarther, Sunset Lodge No. 352.................................. S.00
Midway Lodge No. 426......................................·-···-························ so.oo
· Rufus E. Fadler..................................................................- ................ 20.00
Golden West Commandery No. 42.................................................. 2S.OO.
Arlington Lodge No. 414.................................................................... S0.00
Wheatland Chapter No. 48, 0 . E. S ............................................... 20.00
H. A. Cheeney, Pasadena No. 272.............................................·-···· 10.00
Bakersfield Scottish Rite Club .......................................................... 2S.OO
Howard P. Burger, So. Calif. No. 278...........................................• S.00
John McQuiston, Azusa No. 30S ................•- ................................. S.00
L. M. Renaker, Azusa No. 30S.......................................................... 5.00
Chas. Guenther .................................................................................... S.00
John W . Spinks, Southern California No. 278............................ S.00
Pomona Chapter No. 110.................................- •.·-··-···········-············· 2S.OO
Palos Verdes Chapter No. 310, 0. E. S ......................................... 2S.OO
Libertas Lodge No. 446.................................................................-. 20.00
A. D. Whittemore, Bakersfield........................................................ 10.00
Pasadena Chapter No. 108, 0. E. S .............·-······-························· 2S.OO
Palestine Lodge No. 351..............................................................·-··· 6.00
Lewis ~. Kent, Poway...............................................................:...... 10.00
Harry Seibel, Pentatienia No. 180.................................- ............... S.00
Los Angeles Council No. 11, R. & S. M----······························· 15.00
Signet Chapter No. 57, R. A. M ..................................................... 15.00
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.·-····················-········································ 22.11 .
Moneta Lodge No. 40S........._...................................•........................ 7S.00
Wilshire Lodge No. 445 .............- •.................................................... 103.31
Tehachapi No. 313................................................................................ 36.00
Coronado Lodge No. 441 ......................·-···························--·~·····-··• IS.SO
Mrs. J. Cole ................. :.......................•...•........•..............••....•..••.....•.... 5.00
A. T. Goshorn, Hollenbeck No. 319................................................ S.00
Hermosa Chapter, No. IOS, 0. E. S ..................................•.....•.....• 5.00
Magnolia Chapter No. 73, 0 . E. S ........................................•:......• 31.25
Crown Chapter No. 72, R. A. M ...........:..................................,...... 10.00
Pasadena Council No. 16, R. & S. M ............................................... 10.00
Sacramento Sciots · No. 3..~················•"·························· .. ·················· S0.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

547

Columbus Chapter No. 117, 0. ~- S ......·-········- ·-···-·-··-·············· · 25.00
San Rafael Chapter No. 213, 0. E . S........................·-·················· 12.00
Santa Paula Chapter No. 18S, 0. E. S ........................... _............ 17.35
Monrovia Chapter No. 227, 0 . E. S.............................................- .. 10.00
Chespa Chapter No. 1 SI, 0 . E . S ......................................·-············ 15.00
John R. Rucks tell, Mission No. 169.............................................. 5.00
West Gate No. 335................................................................•..........._ 10.00
Chas. A . Stump, West Gate No. 33S ................:.............................' 5.00
J. G. Huntley, Unity No. 368......•................- ..................................• 10.00
Taft Chapter No. 337, 0. E . S ........................................................... 20.00
Pearl Chapter No. 147, 0. E. S ....................................................... 13.25
R. L. France, Amara·nth ...................................................................... 5.00
Manford Otto ........................................................................................ 2.00
Hollywood Chapter No. 120, R. A. M ........................................... 5.00
Mizpah Chapter No. 100, 0 . E. S ...................................................
4.15
Pomona Lodge No. 246...................................................................... 25.00
Veteran Lodge No. 373...................................................................... 104.70
E. T. Stimson ........................................................................................
5.00
Silver Wave Chapter No. 75, 0. E. S ............................................. 10.00
Theo. Bacharach, West Gate No. 335 ..........................................
5.00
Buena Vista Chapter No. 364, 0 . E. S................·-······················ 25.00
Upland Lodge No. 419..·-········-··..·······················-···························· 75.00
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
RULtS FOR ADMISSION.

The Masonic Homes. of California, incorporated, are maintained
by the _members of Lodges holding obedience to the Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California,
and are conducted by authority of the Grand Lodge through a
Board of Trustees. They are supported by direct appropriations
from Grand Lodge by funds which are derived from (1) per capita
dues from Lodges, fixed annually ; (2) the sum of twenty dollars
from each petitioner for initiation and from each applicant for
membersh!p from another Jurisdiction; and (3) from bequests, g ifts
and donat10ns.
.The Home for the adults is located near Decoto, Alameda
county, and the Home for children is located near Covina, Los
Angeles county.
. Those eligible for admission are : Master Masons who have for
at least three years prior to application been members in good
standing of a Lodge in this Jurisdiction ; the wife of a Master
Mason who is eligible to the H ome; the widow of a Master Mason
who at the time of his death was eligible for admission to the

548

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

549 .

Home; the mother of a Master Mason who was eligible for admis. sion at the time of his death, or who if living is incapable of caring
· for her; a dependent normal child over the age of four years and
under the age of fourteen years, provided its father was eligible for
admission to the Home at the time of his death. The child of a
living father who is eligible to admission to the Home, may also be
admitted i~ circumstances justify it. Likewise a child who may be
dependent upon a graiidfather who is eligible for admission to the
Home, may in the discretion of the Board, be admitted.

Adult residents of the Home may be given leave of absence, on
application to the Superintendent, for a period of not to exceed three
months in any one year, for the purpose of visiting friends, or to
seek employment. Lodges will be held responsible for any such
absentees until their return to the Home.

A hospital is maintained at the Decoto Home for the proper
care of residents who may require hospital treatment; but applicants for admission who, at the time of such application, are unable
to care for themselves at toilet and at table, to dress and undress
themselves alone and unattended, will not be admitted to the
Home, but may be by the Trustees placed in institutions organized
and operated for the care of such physically incapacitated applicants, on such terms as may be agreed upon by and between
the Trustees and the Lodge of which the applicant is a member.

All residents, adult and minor, must cheerfully perform such
labor and duties as the Superintendent or Matron may assign.

The Home being designed for worthy and dependent Masons,
their wives, widows, mothers and minor children, the eligibility of
applicants for admission must be certified by a committee of the
Lodge making application and passed upon by the Board of
Trustees; and all adult persons who may be admitted as residents
must assign all their property, real and personal, and any income to
the Homes as a condition precedent to admission. In case any
resident having transferred to the Home any funds or property,
shall withdraw from the Home, or shall be discharged therefrom
for cause, the Trustees shall withold from any funds or property
assigned to the Homes by the applicant a reasonable sum per month
for the time said resident has lived at the ·Home, and the remainder,
if any, of said funds and property shall be returned by the Trustees
to said resident upon such withdrawal or discharge.
A part of the consideration of the acceptance of an application
from a Lodge fpr the admission of any person to the Home shall
be an agreement on the part of such Lodge to keep such person
decently and properly clothed while a resident of the Home, 'to
receive back such resident and relieve the Home of any further
care or responsibility at the request of the Board of Trustees, and
to pay the necessary funeral expenses in case of death of the
applicant while a resident of the Home.
All accepted applicants must be provided with transportation ·
and proper attendance (if necessary) to the Home or other place
p.rovided, by the Lodge making the application. They must also be
provided with at least two complete changes of clothing,

In cases of persistent insurbordination, intemperance, insanity,
or contraction of contagious or infectious disease on the part of
any adult resident, or of incorrigibility on the part of any child, the
Trustees may return such person to the custody of the Lodge.

The Board of Trustees will endeavor to keep all children
admitted to the Home until they become self-sustaining; the Board
may consent to the binding out of children, when deemed for the
best interest of any child, to any trade, or place them in any proper
school or employment.
Each Lodge in the Jurisdiction shall be entitled to have maintained at the Home for adults, without charge two residents and
one additional for each three hundred members or fraction thereof
in excess of three hundred. For each resident in addition to such
quota a monthly fee will be charged, the amount to be fixed from
time to time by the Board of Trustees. The number of children
from any Lodge is not restricted.
The Board of Trustees may admit to the Home Masons, their
wives, widows, mothers and children, not covered by these regulations, when in the sound judgment of the Board the circumstances
presented justify such admissions.
All applications must be made upon blanks to be procured from
the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, which blanks when filled
shall embrace a full statement of the applicant's financial, mental
and moral condition, and a statement by a competent medical
examiner, together with the report of the investigating committee.
of the Lodge; and the application, when signed by the Master and
Secretary, shall be forwarded to the Secretary of the Masonic
Homes of California, Masonic Temple, San Francisco, California.

The report was adopted as presented, except that recommendations 1 and 3 were referred to the Committee on
Finance, and recommendation 2 was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

550

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A MENTAL AND PHYSICAL SURVEY
OF THll

ilaanutr ijomt f nr <lt4ilbrtu at aintriua. <ltnliforuht
By ARTHUR JoHN RlTTllR, Lecturer on; Mental Deficiency
and
HAROLD K. FABllR, M. D.
Associate Professor of Medicine and
Executive Head of the Department of Pediatrics
From
Department of Pediatrics of Stanford
University Medical School.

October 10, 1921.
LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, October 11, 1921.
Dr. George F. Rodden,
Grand Master of Masons.
Dear Sir :
.
We have the honor to submit herewith a report of the mental and
physical survey of the children at the Masonic Home for Children at
Covina, California, made by us during the second and third weeks
of September, 1921.
Very truly yours,
HAROLD K. F ABllR.
ARTHUR J. RITTllR.
The annual mental and physical survey of the Masonic Home for
. Children at Covina was made by your examiners this year during
the second and third weeks of September. The methods of examination
were, like those of preceding years, as thorough as it was possible to
make them but the methods employed were in general the same as
previously used. It is thus possible to make a direct comparison
between the findings of this year and those of preceding years and to
check clos~ly the mental and physical progress made by the children
who had been in the home since June of last year or longer.
Physical Examination
The general impression left on the observer after a careful physical
examination of all the children was that they were distinctly above

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

551

the average in height, weight, muscular development and posture. T he '
comparison of the records of those children who were ·at the home in
June of 1920 shows that the average gain for the fifteen months was
2.9 inches in height and 13.l pounds in weight. The gain in height
is extraordinary since the accepted standard of growth, even through
the most rapid periods of normal growth, is considerably less than
this. It is a common observation that children who gain rapidly in
height tend to fall considerably below normal weight, and it is therefore especially noteworthy that these children maintained and in .
many instances actually improved in nutrition during a period of
unusually rapid growth in height. In musculature the progress of
the children who have had the benefit of the Home for six months
or more was also found to be extraordinarily good, the result unquestionably of the physical training and development so intelligently
and thoroughly directed by the Superintendent, Mr. Spencer. A
much smaller percentage of the children showed faulty posture
than last year and in practically all instances the defects found
were slight or negligible. The condition of the teeth of the
children was found to be excellent, a point which should be
singled out for high praise. It was quite evident that instruction in
the proper use of the tooth brush has been thoroughly given and that
decay has been promptly dealt with. The few cases of enlarged tonsils
occurred in children who had been but a short time in the Home.
In the examination of the lungs, heart, abdomen, genitals,. joints and
bones a very few abnormalities were noted which will be presented
later in a detailed report, but in general it may be said that in these
points as in others the condition of the children was excellent. A
number of instances · of moderate degree of fiat foot was noted and
it is recommended that the study of this situation, with a recommendation for suitable shoes, be made by an orthopaedic surgeon.
Of the physical condition of these children it may be said Jhat
this is far above the average of our general population. When such
a condition is evident it always means one thing, namely, intelligent,
conscientious and thorough personal supervision. We strongly feel
that in the case of the Masonic Home at Covina, the high stand.a rd of
physical excellence is the direct result of the unremi tting attention
and care given the cihldren by the Superintendent, Mr. Edward B.
Spencer.
In conclusion, the food and general sanitation of the Home was
inspected, both being found to have improved over the high standards
observed last year. The cooking is good, the food palatable, abundant
and properly balanced. An abundance of vegetables, meat, milk and
butter fats is afforded by the diet. Certain recommendations made
last year in regard to the wash basins have been carried out. The
building was found to be neat and the wash rooms and toilets very clean.

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mental Examination
Total number of children examined................................................83
Admissions 1920-1921 ..........................................................................32
Left Home ...............................:............................................ ~ .................. 16

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON · ACCOUNTS

Of the 16 children demitted, two were placed in a family, one
returned to its Lodge. The remainder returned to their mothers.
The 83 children examined are distributed to the following schools:

~~~~:aH~;~e~~h~;i··:'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1~

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts has the ho.nor to report that
pursuant to Constitutional requirements, the members have met
at the office of the Grand Secretary on the last Saturday of each
month, and have audited all bills, claims and demands against the
Grand Lodge as were placed in the hands of the Grand Secretary.

Enw ARD E. CoNN,
WM. P. Ri;:AD,

Public School ·······················-··························-··-······-·······················64
The 3 remaining are below school age. The mental examinations
vary from normal to normal superior intelligence, with the exception
of Case No. 127 B. P. who has a rather low mentality, and who should
be kept under observation for at least one year.
Case No. 121 S. V. who came from a distant mountain district,
is considerably retarded, although not defective. Her retardation is
due to isolation and lack of opportunities.
Case No. 95 F. D. who was reported in 1920 as a mental defective
has proven to be such, and was returned to the lodge, which is providing for the child a suitable home.
It is strongly recommended that Case No. 3 be placed on a farm.
This suggestion was made in the 1920 report. This boy has intellectually matured, and he himself suggested that he be permitted to go to
work. With the exception of those few who are still fee!ing the
effects of their former environment, the conduct and behavior of the
children is excellent.
It was stated that the Masonic child is the leader in both Grammar
School and High School. This statement is corroborated by the
District Superintendent, Mr. Ben. S. Milliken, whose report has
been submitted separately.

The cordial thanks of Grand Lodge were tendered
to the two eminent gentlemen for their work and interest
in our wards at the Covina Home.

553

JOHN CLU'ti.:,
SAMUi;:L

A. CLARK!!,

WM. Pi;:NN HUMPHUYS,

Adopted.

Committee.

BIOGRAPHY OF GRAND MASTER
Brother Leo Bruck submitted the following:
Whereas, Grand Lodge causes to be published a record of the
Proceedings of each Annual Communication; and .
Whereas, These records form the history of this Grand Lodge,
which records become more valuable as the years roll on; and
Whereas, Said Proceedings also contain a half-tone portrait of
the Grand Master printed on its firs't page; therefore be it
Resolved, That the Grand Secretary be instructed to cause a
short biographical sketch of the life of the Grand Master to be
printed on the page opposite the half-tone portrait, said sketch not
to exceed one page.

Referred to the Committee on Finance; which Committee reported recommending that the resolution do pass.
Grand Lodge concurred.
·

REPORTS OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
Bakersfield Board of Relief

Receipts
Nov. 17, 1920, to Sept. 1, 1921.
From local Lodges .................................................................... :...........$282.17
Reimbursements .................................................................................. 259.74
Total receipts .............................................. ~ ........•......;.....•..:.......$541.91

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements
Relief extended to sojourners ............................................................$357.74
Postage, supplies,. printing, telegrams............................................ 136.00

512. Local members of dependents, 257. Ten applications cancelled
during the year for failure to report for duty, for inattention to
duty, insubordination, or failure to make good.

Total disbursed ...........................:......... _.....................................$493.74

Oakland Board of Relief
Irving Magnes, Chairman; Tyler C. Drenna, Treasurer W. I.
Day, Secretary.
Receipts
Sept. 1, 1920, to Aug. 31, 1921.
Refund by Lodges in California................................
$ 1,637.24
Other U. S. Jurisdictions ·························'"·-·········· 3,332.25
Foreign Jurisdictions ................................................
444.16
Individuals ........................................'.......................... 1,971.48
Gran~ ~odge of Californ ia account other jurisd1ct1ons ··················································-············
355.00
Bank interest ....................................................................................
56.82
Contributions Oakland Lodges.................................................... 2,553.85
Sept. 1, 1920, balance on hand................c..................................... 3,046.52
Total re<;eipts and balance...........;··········- ···········---······-·····$13,397.32

554

Balance in fund ····································-·········-···························$ 48.17
CHAS. H. ScHUL!lR, Secretary.
Los Angeles Board of Relief
Officers: John W. Kemp, President; Dana R. Weller, VicePresident; Motley H. Flint, Treasurer; John M. Dunsmoor, Secretary.
Receipts
Sept. 20, 1920, to Aug. 31, 1921.
Sept. 1, 1920, balance......................................................................$ 2,711.23
From Grand Lodge ........................................................................ 5,916.58
Interest ..............................................................................................
69.14
Other Jurisdictions ······-·································:.............................. 17,813.31
Total receipts ..........................................................................$26,510.26

Disbursements
Paid account sojourning bre.thren and families ......................$18,767.88
Employment Bureau ...................................................................... 1,200.00
Telegrams ......................................•....................~..............................
529.83
Drugs and medicines ......................................................................
377.73
Christmas dinners and general relief.....................,.................... 1,127.88
Cemetery bills and other expense .....................'........................: 2,000.00
Total disbursements ..............................................................$24,003.32
Sept. 1, 1921, balance ..................- ................................................$ 2,506.94
Summary of work: More than 731 investigations; 434 tele-.
grams; 12,520 letters. During the year ending August 31, 1921,
139 sojourning Masons or members of their families who have died
in Los Angeles have been buried with Masonic honors or shipped
in accordance with the requests of their friends.
Los Angeles Employment Bureau
Officers : Samuel E. Burke, President; Motley H. Flint,
Treasurer; Fred T. Purdy, Manager; S. Henry Kingery, Assistant
Manager; J. M. Dunsmoor, Secretary.
Applications received : Men and boys, 2,076; women and girls,
636. Positions secured: Men and boys, 2,014; women and girls,

555

-.M..........

Disbursements
Account California brethren ···········-·····················-··················$ 2,393.98
Other U. S. Jurisdictions ................................,........... 4,577.48
Foreign Jurisdictions ·······················-···························
533.04
Te)egrams and telephones.....................-...................
141.82
Stationery, printing and postage................................
41.31
Rents, salaries and incidentals......................-.......... 1,620.00
Total disbursements ............ _........- ...................-···-············$ 9,307.63
Balance on hand Aug. 31, 1921.................•..............•.: ....;..........$ 4,089.69

Burials-41
During the year ending August 31st, 1921, the follow ing named
Masons, or members of their families, have been given Masonic
burial, or shipped in accordance with the wishes of the families.
1920
Sept. 4 George T. Reitze; H. M. Teller No. 144, Denver, Colorado.
" 6 Nicholas F. Golden; Hope No. 234, Beckwith, Cal.
18 William J. Davey ; Madison No. 23, Grass Valley, Cal.
28 John Weltz; Temple No. 14, Sonoma, Cal.
Oct. 8 John Hicks; Madison No. 23, Grass Valley, Cal.
12 B. M. Longfellow; San Diego No. 35, San Diego, Cal.
" 20 Charles John White; Pajaro No. 10, Watsonville, Cal.
" 20 Benjamin F. Stewart; Carver No. 111, Carver, Minn.

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1920
Nov. 25 Joseph Bartell; Madison No. 23, Grass Valley, Cal.
30 George McLaughlin; Hampton No. 347, Wes~moreland,
New York.
Nov. 3 Frank A. Garetson; Cottage Grove No. 51, Cottage
Grove, Oregon.
" 8 Silas A. Lumsden ; El Paso No. 130, El Paso, Texas.
" 29 J. M. Pickering; Mizpah No. 378, Los Angeles, Cal.
Dec. 3 Henry L. Halsey; Brooklyn No. 225, Oakland, Cal.
" 15 Frederick W. Millichamp; Shoshone No. 25, Wallace,
Idaho.
" 16 Leoland C. Edwards; Southern California No. 278, Los
Angeles, Cal.
" 26 Donald Crane; Grafton No. 141, Grafton, Cal.
1921

Jan.

"

3 Robert M. Green; Oroville No. 103, Oroville, Cal.
5 Benton N. Holman; Garfield No. 686, Chicago, Illinois.
5 Robert McWilliams; North Star No. 322, Owen Sound,

Canada.
" 10 James W. Quinn; Carquinez No. 327, Crockett, Cal.
Feb. 4 Francis M. Colvin; Acacia No. 33, Anaconda, Montana.
" 9 Francis M. Caldwell; San· Joaquin No. 19, Stockton, Cal.
17 Herbert S. Johns ; Oroville No. 103, Oroville, Cal.
John Wesley Smith; Jamestown No. 6, Jamestown,
North Dakota.
Azro Orson Perkins; Woodstock No. 31, . Woodstock,
Vermont.
William B. Grahm; Ely No. 29, Ely, Nevada.
Francis I. Russell; Kane No. 61, Neenah, Wisconsin.
James Gaddis; Biram No. 17, Jersey City, New Jersey.
William R. Jones; Monticello No. 16, Monticello, Minnesota.
Mrs. Eva McGinley; Ark Lodge No. 176, Minneapolis,
Minnesota.
Harvey B. Little; Naval No. 87, Vallejo, Cal.
William Benthien; Solano No. 229, Vallejo, Cal.
John J• Skipper; Aurora No. 59, Gardiner, Oregon.
Harry L. Mitchell; Vacaville No . 134, Vacaville, Cal.
Don C. Findley; Euclid No. 599, Cleveland, Ohio.
William Lee Edwards; Tampico No. 10, Tampico,
Mexico.
Jorgen F. Madsen; Washington No. 38, West Concord,
Minnesota.
William W. McKinnon; Golden Gate No. 30, San Francisco, Cal.
Oliver L. Southwick; Alameda No. 167, Centerville, Cal.
William M. Ellsworth; Union No. 59, Sacramento, Cal.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

557

Sacramento Board of Relief
Eugene Benjamin, President; Ralph E. Hill, Vice-President;
Arthur F. Henning, Secretary-Treasurer.

ReceiPts
Oct. 1, 1920, to Oct. 1, 1921.
Cash on hand Oct. 1, 1920..............................................................$
48.33
Refund from Grand Lodge ..........·..............................................
590.27
Other Lodges ......................~ ................................. 1,345.70
Individuals .....................- .....................................
204.50
From Sacramento Lodges ........................... ~ ..............................
472.28
. Donations .................................................................... ..................................
3.03
Interest ..............................................................................................
11..90
.T ransferred from savings account.................... :.........................
100.00
Transferred from checking account.. ........................................
234.92

H

Total receipts, with balance ................................................$ 3,010.93

Disbursements
General relief .......................................................,,_ ......................$ 1,659.83
Stationery, telegrams, salary, etc.............................................
491.60
Transferred to savings bank ......................................................
600.00
Transferred to checking account ............................:...................
234.92
Total disbursements ..............................................................$ 2,986.,35
Balance qn hand Oct. I, 1921................................................$

24.58

Burials-13
Sept~ 17

Fred 0. Hurd; Pacific No. 64, Exeter, Maine.

18 Daniel D. Sayers; Tuolumne No. 8, Sonoma, Cal.
Nov. 21 George Behrens; Hammonton No. 433, Hammonton, Cal.
13 Charles Fish; Vesper No. 84, Red Bluff, Cal.
Dec. 10 Wm. F. Kaehler; Sequoia No. 349, Oakland, Cal.
24 Henry W. Adams ; California No. 1, San Francisco, Cal.
Jan. 31 George Rablin; Woodland No. 156, Woodland, Cal.
" 31 J. B. Hart; Solomon's No. 60, Auburn, Washington.
June 10 Alex. W . Clements; Wadsworth No. 25, Sparks, Nev.
23 Walter D. Cooksley; Albert Pike No. 14, Milford, Utah.
July 18 Charles M. Beckwith; Woodbridge No. 131, Woodbridge,
"

Cal.
Sept. 22 J. D. Brennan; Western Star No. 240, Champaign, Ill.
29 A. H . Powers; Excelsior No. 166, San Francisco, Cal.

558

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND ' LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Bernardino Board of Relief

For funerals of Masons ............................................ 2,229.69
For donation employment......................................
31.15
For widows and orphans.......................................... 1,725.96
Salary of Secretary .......................................................................... 1,050.00
213.93
Telegraph, postage, stationery, etc...........................................

Receipts•
Balance on hand Sept. 1, 1920......................................................$ 181.11
From San Bernardino Lodges....................................................
600.00
Refunds from Lodges .................................................................... 3,341.00

559

Total expenditures .................. _............................................$17,478.48
Total ..................................................................,................,.........$ 4,122.11
Disbursements
Employment Bureau .............. _...........................................,........$ 400.00
Direct relief ...................................................................................... 3,490.00
Christmas cheer to poor, and miscellaneous........................
186.55
Total disbursements ..............................................................$ 4,076.55

'
.
Balance on hand ...................................................................
:··$

45.56

Our Employment Bureau has obtained positions for 421 brethren during the year. The officers of the Board.are M. J. Newburg,
President; W. B. Howes, Secretary.
San Diego Board of Relief
President, R. W. Belding; Secretary, C. Woodman Potter.
Receipts
Sept. 1, 1920, to Aug. 31, 1921.
Sept. 1, 1920, balance on hand.............................:......................$ 1,732.19
From local Lodges ........................................................................ 1,142.51
Grand Lodge ...................................................................... 1,467.00
Interest ................................................................................
30.06
50.00
Foreign jurisdictions ........................................................
934.45
Refund by California Masons :...................................................
Lodges in United States ........................................ 4,695.62
Individual Masons .................................................. 5,06;4.17 .
For funerals advanced ................................................ 1,276.89
For widows and orphans ............................................ 2,350.26
47.00
For phone expense ........................................................
Total receipts .....................:....................................................$18,790.15
Disbursements
Advanced to Masons in California ............................................$ 1,031.15
Other Jurisdictions in the United States........ 7,314.33
Foreign Jurisdictions ..........................................
215.00
Individuals ...............................................,,.............. 3,667.27

Balance on hand ..................,....................................................$ 1,311.67
San Diego Employment Bureau
Work offered, 1247 ; work accepted, 1071; odd jobs, few days
at a time, 368; work lasting two to four weeks, 547; permanent
positions, 307.
The Bureau cost to operate, $671.15, all of which was contributed by Masonic bodies of San Diego other than the Lodgestheir contributions, as above shown, being directly for the Board
of Relief.
San Francisco Board of Relief
Samuel B. Steven~on, Chairman; Leo Bruck, Secretary.
Receipts
Aug. 23, 1920, to Aug. 22, 1921.
Aug. 23, 1920, cash on hand.............:............................................$ 4,636.86
Refunds, California Lodges ........................................................ 4,571.30
Other Jurisdictions of United States...................... 8,627.89
Foreign Jurisdictions .................................................. 1,479.56
Grand Lodge of California..........,............................... 5,198.99
Total refunds ..........................................................................$24,514.60
Contribution San Francisco Lodges ........................,.................$ 5,280.00
Interest on bonds ...........................................................................
522.50
Interest on deposits ..................................................................:...
123.70
Total receipts ...........................................:..............................$30,440.80
Disbursements
Relief, California Lodges ............................................................$ 4,623.22
Other Jurisdictions in United States ............................ 11,990.97
Foreign Jurisdictions ...................................................... 2,523.37
Unknown Lodge ..............................................................
210.00
Dimitted Masons ..............................................................
420.00
Total relief extended..............................................................$19,767.56

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

560

561

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Salaries, office supplies, rent, telegraph.................................. 4,195.56
Donation to Employment Bureau............................................
650.00
Total disbursements . ··············-··············································$24,613.12
Balance on hand...................................................................... 5,827.68 ·

It is to be noted that California Lodges reimbursed the Board
in full for all relief extended for account of this Jurisdiction, excepting only the small sum of $51.92.

Burials-61
During the year the following have been buried or their remains'
shipped according to the wishes of the families :
1920
.
Sept. 4 William Crawford ..............Patrick St. Mary's No. 117..Glasgow, Scotland
9 Wm. Russell Riley ............ _Hawaiian No. 21.................,..Honolulu, T. H.
11 Nathan W einberger............Gunnison No. 39..................... Gunnison, Colo.
15 John Phillips Connon........Grand Crossing No. 776....... Chicago, Ill.
20 William Wilson...................Sacramento No. 4Q................ Sacramento, Cal.
20 Luther J. Birdsall..............St. John's No. 9......................Seattle, Wash.
24 David M. I. Foote..........:...New Caledonia No. 11.......... Pictou, Nova Scotia
Oct. 4 Harold Skavlan................._.Alamo No. 44..........................San Antonio, Tex.
11 Duncan McNaught ............Escurial No. 7.........................Virginia City, Nev.
13 Chas. Edgar Esselstyne....South·llend No. 294...............South Bend, Ind.
16 Louis Hattenhausen ...........Wadsworth No. 25................ Sparks, Nev.
19 Frank Lutz............................Eugene No. 11........................Eugene, Oregon
19 Robert Dewar ......................Aricient Landmark No. 3......Winnipeg, Can.
20 j ames Patterson ...............,-Naval No. 87........................... Va:llejo, Cal.
28 Bonaventura Ernst Lorenz Goethe in Possneck, Saxony.
Nov. 1 John Church Hyde..............King Solomon No. 31........... Washington, D . C.
4 Hans Christian Paulsen ....Tuolumne No.8. .................... Sonora, Cal.
22 George W. J ohnson............Crescent No. 895 ....................Chicago, Ill.
· Dec. 1 Sydney George Mitchell....Oak Grove No. 215 ................ Alamed~, Cal.
8 Eugene Colburn ................- Hermon No. 32.......................Gardiner, Me.
27 Max Edward Mayer..........Mt. Moriah No. 24................ Butte; Mont.
31 Harry Frank Bertholf........Bluff City No. 71.................... Council Bluffs, Ia.
31 Edgar Harr Spencer...........Burley No. 68.......................... Burley, Idaho
1921
Jan. 4 Karl Cecil Kemp ..................Lawrence No. 198..................Ironton, Ohio
11 Mrs. Mary Harris..............Dayton No. 26.........................Dayton, Wash.
19 Simon Stamper.:.......:..........Natoma No.64........................Folsom, Cal.
25 Herbert M. Stokes..............ElPaso No. 130......................El Paso, Tex.
29 John Sivers .......:......:--········-Qccident No. 346..............:.....Toronto, Ont.

F eb. 9 Joe Shamburger..................El P aso No. 130......................El Paso, Tex.
17 Louis Albert Irvine ..........-San Joaquin No. 19................Stockton, Cal.
19 Charles Henry Hinges.....:P~cific No. 50............ r ····--····--Salem, Oregon
Mar. 11 Albert Ferdinand Smith....Mt. Shasta No. 281................ Anderson Cal
12 Binoy V. Westphal... .........Seattle No. 164...........;........... Seattle Wash .
14 Louis Masterson Steele....Pride of the West No. 179....St. Lo~is, Mo.'
26 S tanley Muniz.................... -Civil & Mi:itary No. 726....... Hamilton, Ber., W.I.
Apr. 3 William Edward Zi.tlauf....Boulevard No. 882.................Chicago Ill.
4 Chas. Fisk Singletary........Friendship No. 210................ San J os;, Cal.
4 Harry Davidson..................Pacific No. 233........................New York, N. Y.
7 Ashly Duncan Cameron.... Truckee No. 200.................... Truckee, Cal
13 Frederick H olloway............ Portland No. 55 ..................:...P ortland, Or~.
13 Harry Temple Fast Kett..Dearborn No. 310................... Chicago, Ill.
14 Rudolf Benson Nelson ...._Vacaville No. 134...................Vacaville, Cal.
23 Grace Hamilton Bolton....Rising Virtue No.10............. Bangor, Me.
May 4 Freeman Frederick Plato..Willits No. 365 ....................... Willits, Cal.
· 5 Walter Shortill .................... Oakland No. 188....................0 akland' Cal .
24 R oss W. Smith..................East Gate No. 290.................. Los Angeles Cal
.
28 David C. Chambers............Reading No. 254.....................Redding Cai
31 Akton Nicoly Rasmussen..Corregidor No. 3................,.. Manila,
I.'

P.

June 4 J~hn Peter Johnson ............Hoquiam No. 64.....................Hoquiam, Wash.
6 Fitz Warren Donoho........Cambridge No. 63..:...............Slater Mo
11 w 1·irtam Chappell.....:···--·····Eureka No. 20.........................Seattle' Wash.
.
20 Fred Willard Bingall..........Bellaire No. 267........... - .........Beilair~, O.
27 Henry P ercy Crewe............Clam Lake No. 331 ................ Cadillac, Mjch.
July 6 Frederick J oseph Stefan....Redlands No. 300................... Redlands, Cal.
19 Thomas Burns.....................•Santa Cruz No. 38.................S anta Cruz, Cal.
Aug. 5 William J. F?-rey..............-Lassen No. 149........................Susanville, Cal.
5 Henry C. Norton ................Doric.........................................Hudson, Mass.
10 Morris Appleton ..................San Jose No. 10......................San Jose, Cal.
11 Emanuel Katz......................Ionic No. 35.............................Leadvilie, Colo.
17 Ralph Edward Dingman..Midway No. 426.....................Taft, Cal.
22 Edward Michael Gaul........Capital No. 110.......................Des Moines, Ia.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

562

San Francisco Employment Bureau
Chas. H . S. Pratt, President; Andrew Burke, Secretary.
Total applications filed during the year, 1964; positions secured,
1813; applications withdrawn, 14; applications on file, 1J7. Average
cost of each position secured, $1.09.

Corinthian ............No.

San Jose ..................No,

The total cost of the Bureau was $1,986.70, contributed by Mas·Jnic
bodies other than Lodges-$650.00 being from the Board of Relief.

All which reports were referred to the Committee on
Finance.

Yount ...., ...............No.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Brother Roderick G. Guyett, chairman of the Committee
on Credentials, reported the following officers and representatives of 393 chartered Lodges, delegates from eighteen
Lodges, under dispensation, and Past Masters by service
within the jurisdiction as· being present, namely:

Mileage
Allowed
Representatives

L ..Frank B. Drake, Master;
Robert H. Boland, Senior Warden;
Chas. A. Marwedel, Junior Warden;
H. A. Cline, Past Master;
R. F. Conlisk;
G. Deitterle;
W. P . Johnson;
F. V. Keesling;
C. L. Patton;
E. Peabody;
T. Rolph;
J. M. Whited.
W estern Star ........ No. 2....Geo. C. Ellington, Master and P. M.....$29.80
J esse W." Carter, Senior Warden.
Tehama .................. No. 3....Frank P . Bruner, Jr., Junior Warden.. 7.00
A. Greilich, Past Master ;
J. Mclndeor;
T . J. Milliken.
Benicia .................. No. 5....William N . Graham, Master .............. 2.60
Tuolumne .............. No. 8....George A. Griffin, Master and P. M ..... 15.10
0. J. Mouron, Past Master.

Nevada .................... No.
Temple .................. No.

E:ureka .,..................No.

LaParfaite Union No.

California .............. No.

Mountain Shade.. No.
San Joaquin ........ No.
Washington .......... No.
Hawaiian ..............No.

Madison ................No.

Mariposa ..............No.
Georgetown .......... No.

563

9....Carl A. Swigart, Senior Warden........ 10.35
Dwight D. Johnston, Junior Warden;
A. W. Gluckman, Past Master;
L. B. Wilcoxon.
10....George Watley, Master .......................... 3.75
Allen E. Chaffee, Senior Warden·
Alexander W. Hess, Junior Warden;
E. R. Bailey, Past Master;
J. H. McGehee;
C. H. Wheeler.
12....0tto T. Schultz, Master.......................... 3.75
Alvin N. Munk, Senior Warden ·
.
Charles A. Goldfrap, Junior W~rden;
H. L. Johnson, Past Master;
P. S. King;
F .W. Williams.
13....Leroy W. Lobdell, Master.................... 15.80
14....Louis H. Golton, Master .................... 15.10
Henry D. Burmeister, Senior Warden·
J. C. Gottenberg, Past Master.
'
16.... Rexford G. Prud'homme, Master........ 9.85
J. H. J effreys, Past Master ·
M. D. Lininger.
'
17....Camille H. Artru, M. and P. M.;
Louis Figeac, Senior Warden·
Hippolyte Dragon, Junior Warden·
M. E. Diebold, Past Master ·
'
0 . M. Goldaracena;
'
A. Huguenin;
H . Mottet.
18.... Antone P. Peckwith, Rep ..................... 31.85
E. L. Case, Past Master.
19....Benjamin C. Wallace, Master................ 6.60
W~. M. Simpson, Junior Warden.
20.... E ugene Benjamin, Master
7.00
Emanuel Hendricksen, S . .,;y:.................
21....Lem W. Spriggs, Master;
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Senior Warden ·
W . P. Humphreys, Past Master. '
23....TThomas M. H arris, Master.................... 15.40
· Ingram, Past Master ·
G. L. J ones.
'
24....Frank H.B. Catherwood ,M. and P. M. 33.30
25....Chas. E. Jerrett, M. and P. M...:......... 13.85

564

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

26....Harley :E. Dillinger, Master................ 12.70
P a1myra ................No.
William S. Kirk, Senior Warden;
G. C. Rolleri, Past Master.
27
....
R. L. Carter, Rep. and P. M............. 40.75
·
·
No
T nmty .................... ·
Golden Gate ..........No. 30....Frederick G. Canney, Master;
Horace B. Brown, Senior Warden;
S. A. Clarke, Past Master ;
A. F. Heuer;
E. L. Meyer.
·11
No 32....Jacob J. Miller, Master ...................... 9.20
G0 Id H I . ............. •
H. P . Jansen, Past Master.
.
N
33....J. T . Morley, Rep. and P . M ................. 19.80
Oph ir ······················ . o.
57 65
San Diego ..........No. 35 ....Chas. W. Partridge, Master.................. ·
James B. McLees, Junior Warden.
.
St. John's ..............No. 37....0rlo G. Steele, Master and P. M......... 39.65
G. A. DeWitt, Past Master.
·
38
....
George
H.
Cardiff,
Master......................
7.00
·No
anta
ruz
............
.
C
S
H . J . Godfrey, Past Master.
Sacramento ..........No. 40.... Ralph E. Hill, Master ···························· 7.00
Herman B. Weaver, Junior Warden;
W. H. Renwick, Past Master.
Martinez ................No. 41....0rville E. Hayward, Rep. and P. M..... ~·fa
Los Angeles ........No. 42....Fayette M. Huntoon, Master................ ·
Chas. U. Sydenstricker, S. W .;
S. K. Lehman, Past Master ;
A. T. Richardson.
Hiram ....................No. 43.... Alger W. Harvey, Senior Warden........ 12.05
Mount Moriah ....No. 44....William E. Rampe, Master;
Wm. E. Anderson, Senior Warden;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
D. B. Richards.
Crdcent ................No. 45....William Marshall, Jr., Master ................ 64.90
O. Dudley, Past Master.
Texas .............'.........No. 46....William R. Flint, M. and P. M......... ~-~
Forbestown ..........No. 50....F. O. Alm, Rep ........................................:.. 1 ·
· t own ..........No. SL.A. Stevens, Rep. and P. M ................. 11.80
Ill .\no1s
No ·55....Lo~is J . Hayes, Master ........................ 3.90
·
Smsun .................... •
E. L. Dearborn, Past Master;
J.B. Murray.
Santa Rosa ..........No. 57....Clyde E. Hunt, Master............................ 4.30
A. G. Burnett, Past Master.
Union ..·..........,..........No. 58.... Samuel Ha.rbinson, Master ................ 7.00
T. J . Baker, Past Master;
R. B. Carlton;
J . F. Morgan.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

565

Gravel Range ........No. 59....Franklin M. Groves, M. and P. M..... 20.35
Plumas ..................No. 60....William E. Styan, Master.................... 32.50
J . 0. Moncur, Past Master.
Live Oak ..........:.....No. 61....Charles W. Pangbur, Master;
Henry Bostwick, Senior Warden;
W. J. Garibaldi, Past Master;
L. S. Griswold;
C. H. Victor;
A. B. Webster.
Natoma ............... _No. 64....M. C. Duchow, Rep................................. 8.80
Amador ................No. 65....Robert P. Wolfenden, S. W ............. 15.05
Forest ....................No. fi6.... Dan McKenzie, Junior Warden............ 25.80
Morning Star ......No. 68....W ilbert B. Kitto, Senior W arden........ 6.60
0. S. Henderson, Past Master;
J. W. Wheatley.
I
Enterprise ............No. 70....Walter J. Shelley, Master .................... 10.60
Bear Mountain...... No. 76.... Alfonso Covello, Master.......................... 17.30
Calaveras ..............No. 78....Enos F. Floyd, Rep................................. 13.50
Humboldt ...........-No. 79....J ohn A. Sinclair, Master ........................ 39.30
T. R. Dinsmore, Past Master ;
J . T. Fraser;
G. W. Hunter;
A. J. Monroe. .
Ione ........................No. 80....Robert H. Frost, Master........................ 11.15
Yolo ...........:............No. SL.Clyde F. Hayden, M. and P. M......... 7.10
Vesper ....................No. 84.... Grant B. Wilcox, Master........................ 15.50
Naval ......................No. 87.... Mark T. Andrews, Master.................... 2.60
Chas. E. Zander, Senior Warden;
C. LeRoy Beach, Junior Warden;
F. Graff, Past Master;
Carl L. Rhodes;
B. C. Whiteley.
Rose's Bar .......... No. 89.... R. R. Beatty, Rep. and P. M............. 13.35
St. Helena ............No. 93.... Leroy F. MacDonald, Master................ 5.20
Edwin H . Brown, Senior Warden.
Henry Clay ..........No. 95 ....J ohn L. Redpath, S. W. and P. M......... 15.05
Howard ..................No. 96.... Arthur O'Connor, Master.................... 39.65
Jefferson ..............No. 97.-0liver H. Cayo, Past Master................ 30.90
Hornitos ................No. 98.... Arthur J. Giles, Rep............................. 25.80
Yosemite ............,...No. 99....0rrin T. W. Fowler, Master.................. 18.30
Samuel W. Johnson, Junior Warden.
Clay ........................No. 101....Frank L. Harmon, Master.................... 12.95
Oroville ..................No. 103.... Harry A. Matheny, Senior Warden.... 12.45
A. E. Boynton, Past Master.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

·
............N o. 104....Robert L. Wood, Senior Warden .... 47.70
Lexmgton
Arcata ....................No. 106....Henry S. Seely, Master........................ 40.10
Pajaro ....................No. 110.... Lynn L. Marsh, Master............................ 7.65
Harlowe B. Ford, Junior Warden.
Chico ...................... No. 111....Richard Phillips, Rep. and P. M......... 13.20
F. H. Groat, Past Master.
Summit .................. No. 112.... Adolph E. Schell, Senior Warden........ 10.20
Eden ...................... No. 113....Philip H. Weber, Master........................ 1.15
•
Lloyd A. Johnson, Senior Warden;
S. B. Force, Past Master;
J. B. Mills.
Concord ...............,.No. 117....Frederick J. Harris, Master................ 7.00
J. F. Lyon, Past Master;
C. A. Schocke. .
Fidelity ..................No. 120.... Edgar C. Levey, Master;
P. Jacobovics, Past Master;
B. L. Stone;
H. M. W allen~tein.
Alamo ....................No. 122-John H. Demartini, Master................ 3.85
j · 1 • !~Merle L. Daley, Junior Warden.
Sotoyome ..............No. 123....John W . Hillhouse, Master..............,. 5.30
Table Mountain .... No. 124.... Adolph N. Caspare, Master .................... 17.15
La Fayette ............No. 126....Thomas R. Klinker, Master.................. 4.80
·
'
Ernest A. Feaks, Junior Warden.
Hermann .:............ No. 127....Max Breithaupt, Master;
Ernest Gentner, Senior Warden;
L. Muller, Past Master;
E. A. N euaerkel ;
H . H. Schmalfeld.
Visalia .................... No. 128....H. H. Newman, Rep. and P.,M............. 26.20
Nicolaus ................ No. 129....E. E. Boswell, Master............................ 10.10
;c. M. Burchell, Senior Warden.
Woodbridge .......... No. 131.... James S. Gerard, Senior Warden........ 7.80
Vacaville .............. No. 134....Frank H. Clark, M. and P. M........,.... 5.20
Valley ....................No. 135....Ralph M. Foote, Master........................ 7.65
Pacific ...........•.....No. 136.... Wi'liam Fanta, Master;
Harry Kellerwolff, Junior Warden;
. T . Anderson, Past Master;
·G. L. Darling;
E. S. Elkus;
F. L. fl:ansen ;
P. Nathan;
A. W. Turpin;
E. L. West.

Crockett ................ No. 139.... Peter Jorgensen, Master;
Bernhard S. Pedersen, S. W.;
Herbert J. Gaevert, Junior Warden;
J. 0. L. Brunswig, Past Master;
W. R. Gibson;
H. W. Maass;
T. Rowlands.
Curtis ....................No. 140.... C. T . Coffey, Representative................ 6.75
Grafton ..................No. 141....John W. Cloyd, Master........................ 7.50
Franklin ................ No. 143.... J. H . Hyde, Rep. and P. M ..............~.. 6.90
H. D. Kercheval, Past Master;
A. T. J. Reynolds.
Oriental .................. No. 144.... William E. McHugh, Master;
Herman V. Leffler, S. W.;
Walter Leonard, J. W.;
0. L. Berry, Past Master;
C. W. Dobie;
0. L. Gibson;
I:J. M. Jeffreys;
C. W. Whitney,
Vitruvius ..............No. 145....Wil!iam D. Johnston, S. W ................... . 5.20
895
Abell ........................ No. 146....J. M. Mannon Sr. Rep and P M
Eel River ................No. 147.... Franklin B. Morg~n, Master....:......::::: 37:25
Las~en .................... No. 149.... Ralph D. Taylor, Master........................ 49.10
Molmo ....................No. 150.... Edward B. Fitzgerald, Master........:... 14.55
Earl R. Gillespie, S. W.
Woodland .............. No. 156.... Byron F. Hillhouse, Junior Warden.... 6.75
H. H. Gable, Past Master.
Keystone ................No. 161.... Carl C. Hansen, Master........................ 8.95
Harmony .............. No. 164.... James E. Westall, Master........................ 30.55
Excelsior ..............No. 166....John C. Bovey, Master......................
Clarence W. Brown, Senior Warden ·
'
C. A. Adams, Past Master;
W. N . Brunt;
J. W. Crosby;
E. L. Foster;
R. G. Guyett;
D. A. Hare.
Alameda ................ No. 167.... George P. Hellwig, Senior Warden .... 2.60
F. B. Hartman, Past Master.
Redwood City ...... No. 168.... Lawrence A. Heiner, Master................ 2.10
Norris C. Cummings, J. W.;
T. 0. Heydenfeldt, Past Master;
C. G. Lambert;
W. A. Crowell.

566

567

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mission .................. No. 169.... Wm. C. Strickler, Master;
Wm. C. Olsen, Senior Warden;
Geo. L . Edmondson, Junior Warden;
R. E. Allan, Past Master ;
R. S. Allen;
]. Hazlett;
W.W. Moore;
M., H. Renwick;
E. W. Tucker;
L. E. Wallace.
.Elk Grove ............No. 173..-Edward L. Gerrish, Master.................... 9.20
Drytown ................No. 174....George W. Easton, Master.................... 15.75
H. Osborne.
Antioch ..................No. 175:...Harry H. Madison, Master ................ 4.30
Walter E. Altizer, Senior Warden;
Jacob Frederickson, Junior Warden.
Phoenix ..................No. 178....John K. Gilbert, Master........................ 51.05
W. B. Howes, Past Master;
M. J. Newburg.
Mendocino ............ No. 179.... Geo. 0. N. Tannlund, S. W ................. 19.65
Petaluma ................No. 180.... Arthur E. Own, Senior Warden............ 3.10
Russian River .......No. 181....1. B. Gutshall, Rep. and P. M....~ ..:....... 4.90
Arbuckle ................ No. 182.... Edison C. Schrader, Master................ 8.95
Sierra Valley ........ No. 184....Chas. Dubourdfou, Jr. M. and P. M..... 24.55
Claiborne ..............No. 185.... Samuel W. Kirkland, Master................ 17.80
Evening Star ........No. 186.... Albert Parrot, Master............................ 45.15
Keith ......................No. 187.... Bert W. Martin, Master and P. M..... 6.10
Chas. Hornbeck, s·. W. and P. M. ;
H. C. Crow, Junior Warden.
Oakland ................ No. 188.... Sophus Nelson, Master;
Francis A. Braun, Senior Warden;
Robert McF. Ford, Junior Warden;
F. L. Arbogast, Past Master;
R. B. Gaylord;
W. I. Macdonald;
A. Mock.
Northern Light .... No. 190.... Henry W. Bertholis, M. and P. M .....21.30
Marin ...................... No. 191.... Wm. L. Chan:berlain, Master................ .85
C. T. Smith, Senior Warden;
C. V. Clark, Junior Warden;
F. M. Angellotti, Past Master;
A. N. Boyden ;
J. Clute;
R. Furlong;
H. W. Rice;
G. F. Rodden.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

569

Santa· Barbara ....No. 192.... Chas. E. Rutledge, Master.................... 35.10
Andrew Mcintyre, Senior Warden·
S. S. Bingham, Past Master;
'
D. H . Schuer.
Ferndal~ ····:........... No. 193....L. R. Codoni, Rep. and P. M ................. 48.60
Mountain View .... No. 194.... Paul C. Whaley, Senior. Warden........ 2.65
· C. P. Berry.
Bucke~e ................ No. 195....J. E. Sackett, Jr., Past Master.
San Simeon ........ No. 196.... F. S. Lowell, Master......:......................... J0.90
Frankl, Past Master.
W'l.
.
1 mmgton .......... No. 198.... Frank F . Sibley, Senior Warden .......... 48.10
D. C. Fohl, Past Master;
H . F. Lembke.
Hartley .................. No. 199.... C. J. Monroe, Rep. and P. M ................. 13.35
T
A. M. Reynolds, Past Master.
ruckee ..................No. 200.... Thomas Armstrong, Master ................ 25.00
G. Carson, Past Master;
C. A. Ocker.
Silveyville .......... No. 201....I. F. Bailey, Master ................................ 5.30
Pentalpha .............. No. 202.... Wm. H. C. Ness, Master ...................... 46.50
Harry H. Whiteley, Senior Warden ;
J. B. Gist, Past Master;
W. R. Hervey;
J. Paschall.
Confidence .............. No. 203.... Walter C. Buttle, M. and P. M............. 8.40
Charles Charles, Senior Warden·
Albert E. Meyer, Junior Warden'
Sa~inas .................... No. 204.... G. J . Peaslee, M. and P. M.............:...........8.95
Olivet ...................... No. 205.... H omer D. Crooks, Master...................... 14.00
Albert E. Greiner, Senior Warden
Stanislaus ..............No. 206.... Geo. L. James, Master ......................:..... 8 95
Anaheim ................No. 207.... George Jackson, Master ........................ 48:60
H. Metcalf, Past Master.
Rio Vista .............. No. 208.... Daniel C. Stewart, Master.................... 6.90
A. Gloff, Past Master;
W. Schaefer.
King David's ........ No. 2()9•.•• Archie V. Cline, Master ...................... 25.90
Carl L. Schulze, Senior Warden·
W. D. Adriance; Past Master; '
0. H. Meck;
J . Whicher.
Friendship ............-No. 210.... Percy H . Thompson, Master.
San Benito ............ No. 211....J. P. Davis, Past ·Master.
So. San Francisco, No. 212.... 0tto J. Spindler, Master;
Cyrus H. Kramer, Junior Warden·
W. J. B. Warner, Past Master. '

:e.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Buenaventura No. 214....John J. MacGregor, Master................ 40.55
Ernest W. Argabrite, S. W.;
J. M. Argabrite, Past Master;
D. J. Reese. .
Oak Grove ............No. 215 .... H. G. Ilderton, Past Master.
Doric ......................No. 216.... Ralph H. Lachmund, Master;
Louis J. Cohn, Senior Warden;
Arthur C. Bush, Junior Warden ;
·s. Myrson, Past Master.
Monterey ..............No. 217.... John H. Graves, Master ........................ 9.70
Will E. Parker, Junior Warden.
Mosaic .............:......No. 218....T. F. Brady, Representative.................... 3.75
Speranza Italiana, No. 219....Giovanni M. Icardo, Master;
·I .Nicola Colpaietro, Sr., Warden;
.
: ! i l' ·-·!.JDAttilio J. Scalmanini, Jr., Warden;
-'
E. V . Lonigo, Past Master.
Downey ................ No. 220....Thomas L. Miller, Senior Warden........ 47.45
Inyo ........................No. 221....J. C. Morris, Rep. and P. M................. 57.15
Roseville ................No. 222.... 0 . H. Ricksecker, Past Master............ 8.40
J. E. Stine, Rep. and P. M.
. Bakersfield ............No. 224....E. L. Hougham, Master ........................ 31.00
Mervil W. Gist, Senior Warden.
A. S. Crites, Past Master;
J. R. Gist, Past Master;
W. W. Kaye, Past Master;
Brooklyn ................No. 225.... Irving Magnes, Master;
Tyler C. Drennan, Senior Warden ;
Firman H. Getchell, Junior Warden;
J. C. Foster, Past Master.
San Mateo ............No. 226....George W. Kertell, Master.................... 1.40
: I i ~! ,George W. Munro, Senior Warden;
1
:
. i r
· 11 1 ?~J1Leslie Walbert, Junior Warden.
Athens ....................No. 228.... J. F. Henle, Rep. and P. M..................... 5.95
B. B. Tuttle, Past Master.
Solano ....................No. 229.... Alexander Donaldson, Master ............ 2.60
Bryant R. Smith, Senior Warden;
A. S. Halliday, Past Master.
North Butte ..........No. 230...James R. Craig, Senior Warden ............ 11.15
Covelo .................... No. 231....Chas. H. Hurt, Master and P. M ..... 16.40
Janesville ................ No. 232.... George B. Bailey, Master .................... 46.15
Calistoga .............. No. 233.... Martin Wolleson, Senior Warden ........ 5.85
·
C. A. Carroll, Past Master.
Hope ......................No. 234:... Edmond H. Hamlin, Master ...........'.,... 30.85
C. Garrison, Past Master.
Surprise Valley....No. 235....R. K. Stanley, Rep. and P. M............. 58.20
Hills Ferry ............No. 236.... Walter H. Klehn, Master and P. M....: 9.45

Guadalupe .....:......No. 237....F. J. McCoy, Representative.................. 21.20
Wm. Thomas Lucas, Past Master.
Colusa ···---·---.... No. 240....McPherson Montgomery, M . ................ 10.50
·
George P. Ahlf, Past Master.
Santa Ana ............No. 241....Stan~ey M. Reinhaus, Master ............ 49.10
· Roy Roepke, Senior Warden ;
· Eli B. Trago, Past Master.
Magnolia .............. No. 242....William S. Porter, Master.................... 35.10
Ivor Davies, Senior Warden;
Frank W. Cole, Junior Warden;
' · George A. Miller, Past Master.
Eucalyptus -·--.... No. 243.... Herman Bernett, Master........................ 1.70
R. C. Kennedy, Junior Warden.
Alcatraz ................No. 244....Vernon J. Coley, Master;
Alonzo Waggoner, Senior Warden;
L. T. Corwin, Past Master.
Laurel ....................No. 245....Leon Speier, Master................................ 10.90
Pomona ................ No. 246.... Jos. A. Allard, Jr., Master.................... 49.25
Thomas J. Noggle, Senior Warden;
W. A. Vandergrift, Past Master.
Fresno ....................No. 247.:.. Harry F. White, Senior Warden ........ 22.55
H. G. Foster, Past Master. .
Alturas .................. No. 248....John C. Rachford, M. and P. M......... 52.20
C. S. Baldwin, Past Master.
Adin ........................No. 250....Wm. H. Johnson, Senior Warden........ 62.25
Landmark .............. No. 253.... Philip G. Everett, Master .................... 7.90
Reading .................. No. 254.... C. C. Dakin, Past Master...................... 24.75
A. F. Souza, Jr., Past Master.
Welcome ................ No. 255 ....John F. Graham, Master........................ 25.90
M. C. Carter, Master;
R. E. Shore.
Lodi ........................ No. 256.... Alfred Westfall, Mas.ter.....................- 7.10
Penrhyn ................No. 258.... A. D. Pogetto, Master............................ 9.20
C. Martin, Past Master.
Evergreen ................No.259....Jesse W. Wells, Master .......................... 51.05
Oakley K. Morton, Senior Warden;
H. D. French, Past Master;
A. H. Winder.
King Solomon ......No. 260.... George J. Wallace, Master;
Louis. C. Clodi, Senior Warden ;
Carl J. Lenzen, Junior Warden;
E. E. Conn, Past Master;
G. E. Weaver.
Tuscan ..................No. 261.... Ralph F. Fouch, Master ........................ 9.85
A. W. Kimball, Past Master.

570

Ti

571

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

572

573

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lompoc ..................No. 262....Harry Sloan, Senior Warden................ 30.85
Hesperian .............. No. 264....Chas. W. Marsh, Master ················:····· 29.15
S. F. Lukunan, Junior Warden;
A. A: Dudley, Past Master;
M. F. Piers.
Orland ......:...........No. 265 .... Willard Clark; M. and P. M................. 12.95
T. H. Brown, Past Master.
North East ....:.......No. 266....Raymond R. Baker, M. and P. M......... 54.90
Galt ........................No. 267.... Albert Osler, Senior Warden................ 8.30
Durant ..;..................No. 268....I. E. Flaa, Master ;
John S. McCullough, Jr., S. W.;
W. H. H. Gentry, Past Master;
E. E. Myers;
W. H. Waste.
Olive Branch ........No. 269.... Alexander Whaley, Master.................... 26.05
Snow Mountain ....No. 271....Ira E. True, Master................................ 16.50
Pasadena ..............No. 272....Truman Parker, Master.......................... 47.55
• · ; Lloyd L. Greer, Senior Warden.
Anchor .............c••••No: 273....Cash H. Stall, Master .............................. 47.45
Arroyo ...:................No. 274....Robert I,. Bird, Master............................ 30.25
E. Chase, Past Master.
Oakdale ..........._ ....No. 275 .... Wright S. Boddy, M. and P. M......... 9.20
Selma ....................No. 277.:.. George P. Vincent, Master .................... 23.85
·
P. Allen, Past Master;
A. M. Sawrie.
Southern Calif..... No. 278....Wm. T. McAllister, Master.................... 46.50
John S. McQuiston, Senior Warden ;
A. Brookman, Past Master;
W. P. Jeffries;
E. B. Spencer;
D. R. Weller.
Hanford ................ No. 279....A. D. Driver, Master.................•.............. 25.20
; Walter J. Moore, Senior Warden.
· 21.005
M adera ..................No· 280....Durward Stephenson, Master................
Mount Shasta ........No. 281....Roy E. Simpson, Master.............:.......... 23.8
John E. Carter, Junior Warden.
Callayomi .....;.......:No. 282.... Elmer E. Noyes, Master........................ 9.85
South West ..........No. 283....Randall Austin, Senior Warden............ 58.05
.
F. F. Martin, Past Master.
·
.
1
·No
·
285
Chas.
E.
Tucker,
Senior
Warden
........ 15.80
M
....
S an 1gue -········ .
P aso R obles ..........No · 286....C. J. Park' Senior Warden . ................ 16.605
Winnedumah ...;.:..No. 287....Walter T. Clark, Master........................ 63.4
·
: I. 0. Clark, Past Master.
·
No
288·
....
Heniy C. Sites, M, and P. M............, 10.50
11
Maxwe ···--·-····· .

Elsinore ................ No. 289....Theodore E. Giese, Master.................... 51.10
M. N. Habelin, Past Master.
East Gate ..............No. 290.... C. Van Dingstee, Master........................ 46.50
F. C.' Mulkey, Past Master.
Santa Paula ........No. 291.... Allan C. Hardison, Master.................... 41.85
Matthew H. Butcher, S. W.;
A. L. Drown, Past Master.
Los Gatos ............No. 292....Edw. W. Vodden, Senior Warden........ 4.00
Orange Grove........No. 293.... Leon 0. Whitsell, Master.................... 49.10
Jos. F. Rowley, Senior Warden.
Traver ....................No. 294.... Alfred Hanson, Master........................ 24.25
H. E. Verble, Past Master;
Mt. Jackson .......... No. 295 .... W. L. Cole, Past Master........................ 7.00
W. G. Fonda, Rep. and P. M.
Silver Gate ............No. 296.... Hem:an Wm. Scheid, Master......•..... 57.65
Norton Langford, Senior Warden;
Winford E. Metz, Junior Warden.
Dunsmuir .............. No. 297....Frank L. Callisen, Master.................... 31.30
Benj. R. Fauber, Past Master;
G. A. Hutaff, Past Master;
C. 0. Porter;
F . C. Nourse;
Alexander Levy.
Liberty .................. No. 299.... Fred A. Sherman, J. W .............................3.50
C. A. Englis, Past Master.
Redlands ..............No. 300.... Rees Davies, M. and P. M•................ 51.85
Ontario ...................No. 301....Gleen W. McCurdy, Master................ 49.65
Santa Lucia ........No. 302.... Carl H . L. Abbott, Master ................ 12.45
Porterville ............No. 303.... Edwin S. Lawson, Master .................... 28.00
Reedley .................. No. 304....F. E. Studley; :Rep................................... 24.50
Azusa ....................No. 305.... Walter Isaac Heth, Master.................... 45.25
Edwin B. Hulbirt, Senior Warden;
L. M. Renaker, Past Master.
Ashlar ..........,......... No: 306....Jamie N. Robinson, Master................ 51.05
Santa Monica........No. 307....Frank Marvin Wise, Master................ 48.20
Monrovia ..............No. 308....Hugh Marshall, Master ........................ 47.95
Frank A. Nance, Senior Warden;
· Mark H . Evans, Junior Warden.
Delano .................... No. 309.... Claude D. Richardson, Master........ 28.50
Sisson .................~.. No. 310....Wm. C. Dismukes, M. and P. M..... 32.45
C. E. Glidden, Pa.st Master.
Los Banos ............ No. 312....Wm. T. Walton, Junior Warden...... 11.00
Tehachapi ............No. 313.... Philip Marx, Master and P. M ......... 38.00
H. J . Beauford, P ast Master.

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.Temescal ···········-·-No. 314.... Arthur R. Dickinson, Master.......... 52.20
Norwalk ..............-No• .315....James H. Macklin, M. and P. M ....... 47.80
Sanger .................. No. 316....George T. Ritchie, Master.......- ...... 23.70
Fallbrook .........._.No. 317.... E. B. Walton, Master........................ 56.40
Emmanuel ............ No. 318....H. Cohn, Past master...................- ... 11.40
W. W . Green, Representative.
Hollenbeck ............No. 319....Wm. Watson, Senior Warden............ 46.50
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
W.]. Sanborn;
J. A. Smith;
L. V. Y oungworth.
South Gate ............No. 320....Knowlton R. Bradley, Master ..........$46.50
R. E. Dill, Past Master;
M. L. Griffith;
J. W. Kemp;
J. W. Musselman;
K. L. Wilcox.
Alisa! ......................No. 321....Robert F . Blacow, Master .................. 325
Clinton D. Keeler, Senior Warden;
Harold C. Hansen, Junior Warden.
Alhambra .............. No. 322....John H. Wellman, Master................ 47.30
Whittier ................ No. 323....Wm. A. Jones, Master........................ 48.10
Corona ....................No. 324.... Alfred G. Allen, Master.................... 47.70
Wm. L. Blair, Senior Warden;
L. L. Test, Past Master.
Consuelo ................ No. 325 .... George E . Yost, Junior Warden...... 56.70
Needles ..................No. 326.... Edw. 0 . Underhill, Senior Warden.. 74.50
F. B. Krallman, Past Master;
F. W. Quirmbach.
Lo.ng Beach .......... No. 327•...John J. Shimp, Master........................ 48.20
Redondo ................No. 328.... Henry C. Dusendschon, S. W ........... 48.20
Vallee de France No. 329.... Emil Christopher, M. and P. M ..... 46.50
Kilauea ..................No. 330.... Malcolm Macintyre, Rep.
Pacific Grove ........No. 331.... Frederick T. Cope, Master.............. 9.85
E. S. Johnston, Past Master;
D. J. Leary;
C. K. Tuttle;
Wm. C. Cook.
San Pedro ............ No. 332....John C. Rudbach, Master.................. 48.20
L. S. Anderson,. Past Master.
Alta ........................No. 333.... H. B. Patterson, P. M. and Rep ..... 53.80
.
. J. D. •Murphey, P. M.
.
Covina ....................No. 334....Wm. P. Nye, Senior Warden .......... 45.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

575

West Gate ·····--·····No. 335....0tto Rumage, Muter.......................... 46.50
David Blumberg, Senior Warden.
Fruitvale .............. No. 336.... Albert P . Hill, Master........................ .45
Harvey K . Taylor, Senior Warden;
J. 0 . Ziebolz, Junior Warden;
W. I. Day, Past Master;
J. C. McEwan, Past Master;
H. C. Schwinn.
Carquinez .............. No. 337....James King, Master............................ 2.35
James Smith, Junior Warden;
J. E. Hughes, Past Master;
G. Jones.
San Jacinto............ No. 338....0liver P. Ensley, Master.................. 54.95
Fullerton ................ No. 339.... Curtis W. Reeve, Master.................... 48.50
Wm. A. Goodwin, Senior Warden;
C. S. Chapman, Past Master.
Oxnard .................. No. 341....Philip S. Cummings, Master............ 41.35
Wm. W. McKee, Senior Warden;
R. P. Bellah, Juniot Warden;
R. Beck, Past Master.
San Fernando ...... No. 343....C. W. Judy, Representative .............. 45.35
Starr. King ............No. 344.... A. Contrawith, Master;
James E. Calston, Senior Warden;
Samuel E. Lippman, J. W.;
J. W. Gale, Past Master;
B. J. Joseph;
C. 0. Munson;
C. M. Wolfenden.
Brentwood ............No. 345....Robert H. Wallace, M. and P. M..... 4.90
Millard 0. Diffen, Junior Warden.
Palo Alto .............. No 346....Louis Olsen, Master............................ 2.45
Howard B. Amidon, S. W.;
A. M. Cuthbertson, J. W.;
A. Seale, Past Master;
H. N. Vandervoort.
McKinley .......~....No. 347.... Arbie D. Jones, Master...................... 1.30
Elmer A. Martin, Senior Warden;
J . J. Coward, Past Master.
San Bernardino ....No. 348...John C. Ralph, Jr., Master................ 51.05
H. C. Pease, Senior Warden;
B. F. Bledsoe, Past Master.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sequoia ..................Nb. 349.... James C. Gilbertson, Master;
R. E. York, Senior Warden; ·
C. L. Irish, Junior Warden;
G. W. Bacon, Past Master;
John Gwilt;
E. F. Hughes;
C. Husband;
W. W. Kergan;
J. F. Mote.
Palestine ..,.............No. 351....Edw. C. Kennicott, Master................ 46.50
Sunset .................... No. 352.... A. L. Sheppard, Master.................... 46.50
A. M. Eddy, Senior Warden;
,,·
S. E. Burke, Past Master;
R. A. Cqase;
D. M. Sutherland.
Pinole ....................No. 353.... H. McCullough, Rep. and P. M....... 1.70
Presidio ................-No. 354~ ...John J. Webster, Master;
Wm. L. Bain, Senior Warden;
J. B. Glennie, Past Master;
W. A. Sherman;
F. G. Watson.
Hollywood ............No. 355....James M. Campbell, Master.............. 47.20
Dudley F. Black, Senior Warden;
H. W. Glidden, Past Master.
Mill Valley ..........No. 356.... Leon P. Van Atta, Senior Warden;
Wm. J. Aitchison, Junior Warden;
A. ·coffin, Past Master;
E. S. Merriman;
K. J. C. Seymour;
T. A. Watters.
p k
N 357 George McNeil, M. and P. M ......... 48.35
BGueldna Sar ..........No.
····clarence M. Good, Master................ 46.50
tate ........ o. 358····
W
0 en
Clarepce W . Bean, Senior
arden;
Edward B. Giffen, Junior Warden; .
J. H. Bean, Past Master;
E . B. La Fontaine.
Loyalton ..............No. 359.... N. H . Squire, Master.....................,.... 32.90
San Francisco ......No. 300.... Hubert R. Stovel, Master;
Frank W. Aitken, Senior Warden;
J. A. Walden, Junior Warden;
·H. S. Johnson, Past Master;
H. D. Loveland;
J . C. Perry;
V. E. Perry;
A. S. Young.

Fort Bragg ..........No. 361....Fred Duffay, Master ............................ 18.60
Charity .................. No. 362....Floyd 0. Bohnett, Master................ 4.15
T. A. Robinson, Junior W arden; .
Berkeley ................ No. 363.... Ernest A. Richards, Master;
Loron W. Lasell, Senior Warden;
Francis M.· Shick, Junior Warden;
R. P. Arnold;
C. A. McKelvey.
Willits ....................No. 365..-J erome E. Winstandley, Master...... 10.90
Las Palmas .......... No. 366....Jarvis Streeter, Jr., Master.............. 22.55
A. W. Horn, Junior Warden ;
H. C. W ilber, Past Master.
South Pasadena ..No. 367....Walter Q. Patten: Master.................. 47.55
H. L. Hough, Senior Warden.
Unity ...................... No. 368..-HenrY P. Goodwin, Master.............. 46.00
Dwight W. Stephenson, S. W.
Ocean Park ..........No. 369.... D. C. Freeman, M. and P. M ........... 48.20
Amity ............~....... No. 370....F. H. Wood, Master;
Elza L. Lichty, Senior Warden;
J. S. Wrinkle, Junior Warden ;
W. B. Curtis, Past Master;
R. F. Lange;
R. I. Wisler;
W . E. Wood.
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........ No. 371.... Malcolm Macintyre, Representative.
Gardena ................No. 372....Franklin L. Stephenson, Master......... 47.55
Veteran ···-·············No. 373....Justice C. Gregg, Master...................... 47.80
Jewel ...................... No. 374....John H . Adams, Master;
Chas. E. Anderson, Senior Warden;
C. J. Shipaugh, J. W. and P. M.;
L. Bruck, Past Master;
T. F. Hearn;
J , A. Snell.
Richmond ..............No. 375.... Frank Hollingshead, Master;
·
Herbert H. Piper, Senior Warden;
George F. Sand, Junior W arden;
D. B. Crane, Past Master.
Francis Drake ...... No. 376.... Waldo R. Waelty, Master....................
70
Raymond W. Burge, Senior W arden;
John H . Gallaher, Junior W arden;
J. W . Colebird, Past Master.
Artesia ..................No. 377.... F. D. Caldwell ......:..................................... 47.95
W. Harvey Smith, Representative,

576

577

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mizpah ..................No. 378.... Leo Clairmont, Master ........................ 46.50
Carl A. Stutsman, Senior Warden;
J . E. Harshn:an.
Fillmore ................ No. 3i'9.... Walter W. Newcomer, Master ............ 42.65
Huntington Beach No. 380....Roxley L. Obarr, Master.................... 49.75
Oceanside ..............No. 381....John F. Martin, Master........................ 54.45
Highland Park ....No. 382....James M. Hutchison, Master................ 46.50
Chas. . E. White, Senior Warden;
H. G. Knox, Past Master;
F. E. Vincent.
Orosi ...................... No. 383.... Ralph H. Andrews, Master ................ 25.40
El Centro ..........:...No. 384.... Edwin J. Allen, Master .......................... 76.85
J . S. Ross.
Dinuba ..................No. 385 .... C. A. Tillotson, Rep. and P. M ............. 24.90
A. Fraser, Past Master.
Coalinga ·-·············No. 387....Thomas P. Smith, Master...................... 29.15
Max Flentge, Junior Warden.
Parnassus ..............No. 388....Thomas H. Price, Master;
Charles Goff, Junior Warden;
A. L. Johnston, Past Master ;
E. F. Luideck;
H. R. Spaulding.
Palos Verdes ........ No. 389....Forest J. Steadman, Master ................ 48.20
Imperial ................No. 390.... Lewis H. Emblen, Senior Warden .... 76.45
East Belt .............. No. 391....Ivor C. Ekman, Master............................ 15.65
West Lake ............No. 392.... Perry E. Sawyer, Master .................... 46.50
Chas. W. McQuigg, Senior Warden.
Balder .................... No. 393....Frank Johnson, Master;
John 0. Hanson, Senior Warden;
Elias Ellison, Past Master ;
C. G. Johnson.
University ............No. 394....Wm. A. Holt, Master ............................ 46.50
i! Samuel E. Rodda, Senior Warden;
. . \ F. B. c ·omfort, Past Master;
·
. ' t I. J. Mitchell.
Turlock ..................No. 395 .... Albert W. Berteaux, Master ................ 10:00
C. C. Hale, Senior Warden;
W. W. Abbott, Past Master;
F. C. Englesby.
Apollo ....................No. 396.... Hugh 0. McCoy; Master;
Emi.l T. Betelsen, Senior Warden;
Kenneth C. Sn:ith, Junior Warden;
E. N. Clintsman, Past Master;
~- · ..
C. B. Greeley.
j

Rising Light ........ No. 397....Wm. Todd, Master .................................. 46.50
Fraternity ..............No. 399....Joseph E. Hancock, Master ................ 3.75
George M. Smith, Junior Warden ;
W. J. Close, Past Master;
C. L. Snyder.
Burlingame .......... No. 400....Luther E. Penniman, Master ................ 1.30
George F. Larsen, Senior Warden;
Elmer H. Green, Junior Warden;
A. S. Lamond, Past Master;
C. Jellinek;
W. Wilkin.
Bay View ..............No. 401....Willis B. York, Master;
H . E . Jarman, Past Master;
H. E. Long;
T. R. Tilley.
Brawley ................ No. 402....E. B. Stilgebouer, Rep. and P. M......... 75.40
Yerba Buena ........No. 403....F. W. Ostrander, Master;
Oswald R. Wood; Senior Warden;
Horace A. Case, Junior Warden;
i
JJ: ·• F. W. LeBallister, Past Master.
Glendora .............. No. 404....C. M. Warren, Master ............................ 48.70
Moneta .................. No. 405.... Earl A. Hoff, Master ............................ 46.50
Burbank ................No. 406....L. D. B. Davidson, Senior Warden .... 45.60
La Mesa ................ No. 407....C. W. Hill, Master .................................... 58.50
Sierra Madre ........ No. 408....James M. Steinberger, Master ............ 47.55
Honolulu .............:..No. 409....Malcolm Macintyre, Representative.
Charter Rock ........No. 410...John A. Wolcott, Master;
Albert U. Brandt, Senior Warden;
A. L. Patterson, Junior Warden;
H. R. Braden, Past Master;
1 R. W. Myers;
Max Plumb;
E. S. Valentine.
Perris .................... No. 411....Rufus M. Hook, Master ..........................53.20
Calexico ................No. 412.... Wm. H. Lorenz, Master .................... 77.75
Waucoba ..............No. 413....J. A. Farrington, Representative........ 64.25
Arlington .............. No. 414....Chas. E. Spaulding Master .................. 46.50
Ariel C. Harris, Senior Warden;
C. P. Lyndall, Past Master.
Silver Trowel ...... No. 415....Ernest G. Gee, Master ............................ 46.5!1
Fred J. Martin, Senior Warden,;
Pascai Pontecarvo, Junior Warden.
Lindsay ..................!fo. 416....Edgar K. Walls, Senior Warden ........ 27.20
H. A. Barr, Past Master.
Clovis ....................No. 417.... Herbert G. Johnson, Junior Warden.... 23.60

578

579

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Elysian ....................No. 418....Ira F. Thompson, Master .................... 46.50
R. W. Clapp, Past Master.
Upland .................... No. 419....Earl E. Hawthorne, Senior Warden.... 49.75
W. R. Farmer, Past Master.
Kerman ..................No. 420....Richard Gardner, Master and P. M..... 21.65
Inglewood ............No. 421....Leonard D. Ruegg, Master ................ 47.45
Frank A. Taylor, Senior Warden.
Eagle Rock ............ No. 422....R. P. Allen, Master ·········~············ ..··· 46.50
York ........................No. 423.... 0thello E. Frazier, Master .................... 47.45
Exeter ..........:......... No. 424.... Walter P. Ballard, Master .................... 26.70
F. W. Mixter, Past Master.
Holtville ................ No. 425.... Wm. W. Beale, Senior Warden ........ 77.75
Midway ................ No. 426.... A. C. Parsons, Master .......................... 35.75
A. B. Echols, Past Master.
Chino Valley ........ No. 427....Fred A. White, Master ........................ 49.65
San Dimas ............No. 428.... H. S. Gilman, Junior Warden ............ 48.85
Pittsburg ................ No. 429.... L. C. Keithley, Representative............ 3.90 .
McCloud ................No. 430....John Kennedy, Master ............................ 33.55
D. S. Painter, Past Master;
E. M. Smith.
Alpha .................... No. 431....C. C. Olney, Master .............:.................. 1.30
Hammonton .......... No. 433....George R. Oliver, Master .................... 12.35
N. Cleveland, Past Master;
A. R. Dole;
J. H. McGill.
Maricopa ................No. 434....J. E. Wells, Past Master ........................ 33.25
'
. I
:S. J. McKinnon, Rep. and P. M.
Fairmount ............No. 435....George W. Gerhard, Master.
Claremont ............ No. 436.... Louis A. Koch, Master ............................ 49.40
Lancaster ..............No. 437....Warren E. Mills, Master ........................ 41.35
Joseph Miller, Junior Warden.
Acacia .................... No. 438....0tto B. Hofer, Master ............................ 46.50
K. L. Ratzer, Past Master.
Tyrian .................... No. 439....]. H. Austin, Past Master.
Standard ................ No. 440.... Herman F. Murbach, Master;
Wm. E. Norman, Senior Warden;
Jos. B. Reboli, Junior Warden.
Coronado .............. No. 441....Mortirr:er S. Hewitt, Master ............ 57.45
R. F. Bruske, Past Master;
A. A. Mathewson, Past Master.
Blackmer ................ No. 442....Lacy D. Jennings, Master .................... 57.45
W. E. Libby, Past Master.
Schofield ................ No. 443....W. W. Buescher, Senior Warden.
Carpinteria ............No. 444....C. C. Curtis, Master ................................ 39.25

Wilshire ........... ~....No. 445....C. R. Cronkite, Master ........................ 46.50
Bertin A. W eyl, Senior Warden;
P. Burks, Past Master;
W. H. Fischer;
W. D. Gill.
La Puente ........,.....No. 446.... Peter T. Feddersohn, Rep ....:................ 48.10
Torrance ................No. 447.... Paul J. Beall, Senior Warden ............ 47.80
Mt. Diablo ............No. 448....Chas. W. Thissel, M. and P·. M............. 3.50
Park ........................ No. 449.... Carl A. Allen, Master·
.
Albert W. Stokes, Sedior Warden;
A. W. Brouillet, Junior Warden;
F. G. Dyer, Past Master;
F. R. Jackson;
E. B. Power;
A. H. Wilde.
Van Nuys ............ No. 450....Joseph E. Trusler, Master .................... 45.25
Montebello ............ No. 451....Wm. M. Miller, Master ,....................... 47.30
San Pasqual ........No. 452....Walter F. Kress, Master ........................ 27.55
Bethlehem ..............No. 453....A. E. Graupner, Master;
Chas. W. Green, Senior Warden;
Daniel C. Farnham, Junior Warden;
C. K. Harper, Past Master.
Crocker .................. No. 454....Thomas ·W. Swan, Master;
Alexander C. Anderson, S. W.
Golden West ........No. 455....Lewis H. Colen, Master;
Frank M. McNulty, Senior Warden;
Harry E. Allen, Junior Warden;
G. R. Brockman, Past Master;
G. E. Chapin ;
E. M. Hundley;
A. L. W. Zillmer.
Kennett ................ No. 456.... C. A. Moore, Master .............................. 26.20
Ramona ................ No. 457....Frederic H. Vercoe, Master ................ 47.30
Henry S. Orme.. No. 458.... F. C. Warner, Rep. and P. M............. 46.50
Riverbank .............. No. 459.... Chas. H. Giller, Master ........................ 8.55
Mount Oso ....,....... No. 460.... C. 0. Artz, Master ................................ 5.60
Allan R. Powers, Senior Warden.
Argonaut .............. No. 461....J. A. Blackford, Master;
H. A. Lorensen, Senior Warden;
Sigfried Pels, Junior Warden
J. W. Strawn, Past Master.

580

•

581

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

582

Paul Revere ........No. 462.... Leonard S. Leavy, Master;
Washington I. Kohnke, S. W.;
L. T. Cranz, Past Master;
W. A. Gerder;
P. Werner.
Morgan Hill ........No. 463....Washington Covert, Master ................ 5.30
John Telfer, Senior Warden.
Alta Vista ............ No. 464.... Herman Weinberger, Master;
Clifford W. Moody, Senior Warden;
J. E. Williams, Junior Warden;
W. C. Elliott, Past Master;
J. G. Marshall.
•
Center ....................No. 465 ....Howard B. Dorland, Master ................ 22.55
Wm. D. Puleston, Senior Warden;
G. C. Thomas, Past Master.
Libertas ................ No. 466....Howard C. Yates, Master .................... 31.00
Frank A. Easton, Senior Warden,
Culver City ..........No. 467.... Calvin A. White, Master .................... 47.80
Benj. McCuskey, Senior Warden;
H. L. Canning, Past Master;
C. E. Shillito.
Rockridge ............No. 468.... Milton T. Farmer, Master;
H . F. Howland, Senior Warden;
R. R. Beggs, Past Master;
]. A. Smith.
Yorba Linda ........ No. 469....James A. Logsdon, Master ................ 49.10
J . W. Newell, Past Master.
..................
No.
470
....
Chas. Halloway, Jr., Master;
Lincoln
Wm. ·M. Shimmon, Senior Warden;
L. E. Garren, Junior Warden;
E. A. Peabody, Past Master;
J . C. Wilder.
Delta ...................... No. 471.... Samuel G. Gearhart, Master ................ 6.60
H. H. Crow, Senior Warden.
Maui ......................No. 472....Thomas J. Baker, Representative.
Blythe ....................No. 473.... Albert 0 . Wight, Master .................... 69.70
Victory .................... No. 474....Harry C. Moore, Master;
George L. Halek, Senior Warden;
Humphrey S. Reneau, ]. W.;
W. E. Shipley, Past Master.
America ................No. 475 ....Joseph M. Baker, Master........................ 46.50
Chas. E. Wright, Senior Warden;
Wm. A. Schreider, Junior Warden.

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

583

Coachella .............. No. 476....Merton C. Cawthon, M. and P. M..... 58.20
Grover L. Rorer, Junior Warden;
M. C. Cawthon, Past Master.
Temblor ................ No. 477....Walter T. Aitken, M. and P. M......... 36.40
Thousand Oaks .... No. 478....Wm. J. Morrison, Master;
Lawrence C. Manor, Senior Warden;
Edward M. Walls, Junior Warden;
B. H. Pratt, Past Master.
Golden Rule ........ No. 479....Louis T. Smith, Master ........................ 3.75
Fellowship ............ No. 480....James H. Rothberg, Master;
Emil P . Ziegler, Senior Warden;
M. S. Stewart, Junior Warden;
J. F. A. Maguire, Past Master.
Mt. Davidson ........No. 481....Arthur H. White, Master;
Lewis .c. W eisbach, Senior Warden;
Curtis C. Legerton, Junior Warden.
Clarence F. Smith No. 482....Frank G. Falloon, Senior Warden .... 46.50
E. Ingram, Past Master.
Bell ..........................No. 483...Jos. F. Carroll, Master ............................ 47.05
Albert Pike ............ No. 484....Dudley M. Dorman, Master ................ 46.50
·
Frank F. Hudson, Senior Warden.
Chowchilla ............ No. 485....John Follows, Representative .............. 13.25
Caledonia .............. No. 486....Benj. B. Thomas, M. and P. M............. 31.00
James H. Thorn.her, Senior Warden.
Vallejo .................. No. 487.... Harry L. Michael, M. and P. M......... 2.60
·
Edward C. Morris, Senior Warden.
Patterson ..............No. 488...J. K. Kinsman, Junior Warden
8.55
East Bay ................ No. 489....Fred Van Tassell, Master;
A. C. Shurtz, Senior Warden;
F. W. Miller, Junior Warden.
Corcoran .............. No·. 490.... S. M. Barber, M. and P. M ................. 26.25
I. C. Stewart, Junior Warden.
Woodstock ............No. 491.... Chas 0. Sivertsen, Master;
F. A. Frisius, Senior Warden;
R. W. Merrick, Junior Warden.
Garavanza ............ No. 492....H . H . Cox, Master and P. M. .............. 46.50
N. M. Hill, Senior Warden.
Atascadero ............ No. 493....Wm. M. Crilley, M. and P. M............. 19.95
Acorn ......................No. 494....John T. Stewart, M. and P. M. ;
C. M. Herkenham, Senior Warden;
Irvin L. Gracier, Junior Warden.
Lebanon ......................U. D ....George T. Black, Master;
Benj. H. R. Roberts, Junior Warden.
Riverdale ....................U. D .... Frank D. Hamilton, S. W ..................... 20.60

584

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fremont ·················-·-U. D ....James S. Sullivan, Master;
Chester C. Morris, Senior Warden;
Henry H. Caldwell, Junior Warden.
Capital City ................U. D .... Samuel J . Wells, Master ........................ 7.00
Roosevelt ....................U. D...•Emil D. Zecher, Master;
Eduric S. Heiden, Senior Warden;
Walter N. Jackson, Junior Warden.
Westwood ........ :.........U. D ....Fred J. Davis, Representative ............ 46.56
Harbor ........................U. D .... Chas. W. Duncan, Master .................... 1.30
Ludwig M. Johnson, Senior Warden~
Joseph J. Burden, Junior Warden.
Point ............................U. D .... Chas. J . Peterson, Master .................... 1.30
Seaside ........................U. D ....Vincent A. Lorimer, Master ............ 48.20
Clyde E. Johnson, Senior Warden.
Silver Cord ................U. D ....Robert M. Price, Master .................... 49.10
Mt. Olive ....................U. D .... wm. H. Whisler, Master .................... 46.50
Joppa ............................U. D .... wm. W. Goodrich, Master ................ 21.65
Benj. Franklin ............U. D .... Louis F. Knight, Master ........................ 46.50
Et Segundo ................U. D ....Frank D. Bryant, Master .................... 46.50
Cupertino ....................U. D .... Irwin A. Ball, Master ............................ 3.75
John Leonard, Senior Warden;
Archibald Wilson, Junior Warden.
Sunnyvale ....................U. D ....Robert Rankin, Master .......................... 2.65
• Geo. E. Hartwell, Senior Warden.
Palms ·······················-··U. D ....J ames Garvey, Master ........................ 46.50
Earl W. Jonas, Senior Warden;
Abraham L. King, Past'Master.
Cahuenga ....................U. D .....Lyle W. Rucker, M. and P. M . ............ 46.50
Argonne .................... U. D .....Lawrence C. Thompson, Master; .
Henry G. Mathewson, S. W.;
Frank A. Fox, Junior Warden.
$9,760.50

The report was adopted.

585

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
OF CALIFORNIA
Receipts
Sept. 1, 1920, to Sept. 1, 1921.
Balance on hand, Sept. 1, 1920....................................................$ 9,051.46
From Subscription by Grand Lodge ........................................ 40,000.00
Rents, twelve months ...................................................... 41,164.19
Discounts, twelve months..................................................
37.32
Total receipts ....................................................... :..................$90,252.97

Disbursements

~~;;:nt···;~~-~-~~;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ ~::~:~~
Alterations and improvements .................................................. 2,814.17

i~~:ir~n~---~~-~-'.~.~~-~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~~:1~ .

Insurance ..........................................................................................
657.76
Interest .............................................................................................. 8,262.51
Paid on mortgage ...................,...................................................... 50,000.00
Total disbursem.ents ...............................................,..............$87,976.72
Balance-Cash on hand Sept. 1, 1921................................$ 2,276.25
Grand Lodge during past year appropriated $40,000.00 to be
applied to reduction of mortgage.
Total indebtedness Sept. 1, 1920--Mortgage ......................$190,000.00
Paid on mortgage past year...................................................... 50,000.00
Total mortgage Sept. 1, 1921............................................$140,000.00
We respectfully request that Grand Lodge purchase additional
stock in the Association to the amount of $40,000.
Respectfully submitted,
WM.

H. CROCKtlt,
President.

EDWARD

Pi;:ABODY,

Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

586

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIFE MEMBERSHIP PROPOSITION
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 presented a resolution to
amend Section 129 of the Constitution, providing that all
lodges within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge shall
adopt a uniform system of life membership upon payment
of not less than one hundred dollars, and regulate said
membership as the wisdom of Grand Lodge may dictate. The
matter was referred to the Committee on Policy.

DUAL MEMBERSHIP
Past Grand Master Hervey introduced a ·resolution to
amend Section 157 of the Constitution, so as to permit dual
membership. Referred to the Committee on Policy and
Purposes.
COURTESY DEGREES
Brother Max A. Plumb introduced the following:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas The work of conferring courtesy degrees has become
so burdensoi'ne to Lodges in our large ce·nters that it becomes
almost an abuse of courtesy; and
Whereas It is the general opinion that the first degree should
be conferred' only in the Lodge which elects the candidate; Therefore be it
Resolved, That section 155 of the Constitution be amended by
repealing the first eight lines and substituting for them the following :
"One elected to receive the three degrees in a Lodge in this
Jurisdiction may receive the second or third degree, or both, . in
another Lodge upon th~ request of such first named Lodge. If
the request be made by a Lodge of another Jurisdiction recognized
as legitimate by this Grand Lodge, it shall be attested by the
Grand Secretary or Grand Master thereof and by the Grand Secretary or Grand Master of this Grand Lodge! an~ the . ca?d~dat~
may receive the second and third degrees only in this Junsd1chon.
The remainder of section _155 to remain as at present.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, and then
to the Committee on Policy and Purposes, which latter

587

Committee reported, recommending that section 155 be
amended to read as follows :
Sec. ·155. A candidate elected to receive the three degrees in
a Lodge in this Jurisdiction, or a candidate elected to receive all or
any of the degrees in a Lodge in another Jurisdiction recognized
as regular by this Grand Lodge, may receive the second or third
degree, or both, but not the first, in another Lodge upon the request of the Lodge in which he was elected. If the request be
made by a Lodge of another Jurisdiction, it shall be transmitted
through the Grand Master or Grand Secretary of that Jurisdiction
· to the Grand Master or Grand Secretary of this Jurisdiction. No
petition, reference, ballot or fee shall be required in the ·Lodge
conferring any degree upon the request of another Lodge, and the
candidate will be a member of the requesting Lodge. An Entered
Apprentice or Fellow Craft may, after receiving a waiver of Jurisdiction from his Lodge, petition another Lodge for the remaining
degrees or degree, accompanying it with the fees required therefor.

The recommendation was concurred in and section 155
of the Constitution was amended as set out above by
unanimous vote. (Effective January 1, 1922.)

EXPENDITURES FOR SOCIAL PURPOSES
Brother Reginald W. Clapp presented th e following:
To the M_
:. w:. Grand Loqge of California:
Whereas, Section 89 of our Constitution relating to the expenditures of funds for refreshments, works to the detriment and disadvantage of some Lodges in some instances, owing to the fact
that a Lodge doing a tremendous amount of work one year may
be limited in its expenditures to a very small amount because of
the limited number of petitio ns received during the preceding year;
and believing that this can and should be remedied by a proper
amendment, I offer the following resolut ion :
Resolved, That section 89 of the Constitution be and the same
is hereby amended to read as follows :
Sec. 89. Excepting, however, that the Lodge may spend in
each Masonic year t wenty per cent of its total revenue for such
year for purposes of refreshments and the promotion of fraternal
intercourse.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and thence
to the Committee on Policy and Purposes.
Grand Lodge was called off until 2 o'clock this afternoon.

..
(

588

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Afternoon Session
Wednesday, October 12, 1921.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
ANNUAL OR.A,TION

Brother Harvey D. Loveland, Grand Orator, Past
Master of San Francisco Lodge No. 360, delivered his Annual Oration, as follows: .
Most Worshipful Grand Master, ·
and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
Preliminary to what I shall say at this time, may I not repeat my
response to the Most Worshipful Grand Master's courteous inquiry as
to the duties of the Grand Orator? As by the regulations provided,
I answered that his duties were to "Deliver at each annual commnuication an address to the Grand Lodge upon matters appertaining to the
Craft, and to deliver such other addresses as may be desired."
I indulge the hope that my remarks upon this occasion will square
with the first part of that definition, while as to the rest, I respectfully
report that I have accompanied the Most Worshipful Grand Master, and
other Grand Officers, at different times, and the Right Worshipful
Deputy Grand Master upon one important occasion, in addition to which
I have visited and lectured to nearly four score Lodges during my
year as Grand Orator, and I would be doing violence to my feelings; my
brethren, if I did not bear witness _to you, whose servant I am, to the
depth and sincerity of the welco_me extended to me, not as I fondly
believe for myself, but as your representative. The enjoyment and fra~
ternal reciprocations of those hours I shall ever reflect upon with deepest
sensibility.
My brethren, another cycle has been completed, another milestone
erected in our fraternal lives, and again we are assembled in the fitness of time, in the fellowship of our great Institution, and in the providence of God, to discharge our duty by the proper and orderly conduct
'Of the affairs of this Grand body, as such service finds expression in the
usual review, consideration and approval of faithful performance of duty
by our chosen representatives.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

589

The thought that comes to my mind at this moment is not what I
am going to say, or how well or how ill I may say it, but rather, ho~
will you receive it? In other words, can I bring your hearts and minds
into harmony with mine, or mine in touch with yours, that we may
sympathetically and understandingly think and speak of some of those
things concerning which the brethren of the Mystic Tie have a common,
sacred and an abiding interest?
Such will be my endeavor. I could not wi~h that the field of thought
to which I am properly limited today had been less ably covered in the
past, as that would be to deny to you and to me the pleasant recollections
born of having listened to or read the beautiful, scholarly and appropriate grand orations of the past; but I would indeed, my brethren, that
I could feel ass_ured of interesting you as these eloquent exponents of
thought upon the subject of our noble science have interested me. But
as their devotion to our g~eat Institution was expressed in service to
emulate, not to copy but to emulate a Bledsoe, a Nieto, a Burke, a
Webster, an Adams, a Victor, a Waste, or a Boynton, and others who
preceded them, is the proudest compliment I can pay them.
Beautifully has the poet expressed the sentiments of service"There are valiant hearts, there are spirits brave,
There are souls that are ,warm a_nd true;
Then give to the world the best that you have,
And the best will come back to you."
In harmony with that idea I shall try, first, to give you my best
-thought upon the subject of Freemasonry as a science as it fin ds expression in our daily lives; and, second, from the principles thus developed
to deduce some of the pure and holy lessons taught by it, and to comment briefly thereon, especially upon the analogy between the Operative
Art and the Speculative Science.
Keenly do I realize that in speaking to this text upon this occasio~
and in this presence, I am indeed an heir of Alexander, for whom no
worlds are left to conquer.
The genesis, the history, the philosophy, the romance and the beauty
of the moral, ethical and spiritual worth and excellence of our noble
science have been the subject of thoughtful consideration and eloquent
discussion by members of the craft in whose shadow and at whose feet
I could well sit as a learner. But if it seem idle or presumptuous for
me to try to say anything new or interesting upon a subject involving
consideration and analysis of those eternal truths upon which civilization and the progress of our race depend-truths .that were old when the
world was young, truths upon which this great Institution is predicated,
let me say, my brethren, that it is because of association with you and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

others like you in this "Aristocracy or True Republic of Human Effort
for Good," which is what Freemasonry really is, that I find courage to
submit these thoughts, born of that association.
·
The subject is old, old but ever new, and my apology if such be
necessary, must be for the manner of presenting it rather than that the
theme is inappropriate or untimely.
In passing I want to say that in my judgment, many of us as
Masons are too prone to emphasize the importance of such fellowship
in our Institution as finds expression in payment of dues, wearing an
emblem, and semi-occasional visits to our Lodge, and too little disposed
to seek for the enjoyment and happiness which are always to be found
by the thoughtful mind in the contemplation of the desirable consequences resulting from recognition and observance of the teachings and
tenets of Masonry.
Believing this, it will be my endeavor. to present to you some
thoughts, the consideration of which will lead us to the contemplation
of things no less beautiful and interesting, because their appeal is to
the heart and mind by which we bridge the centuries of the past and
learn the story of the ages that the great founder of our Institution,
chosen of God to erect a Temple to His holy name, spake words of
wisdom when he said:
"There is n_othing new under lhe sun."
The cooing of a babe at it's mothers breast was heard ere civilization was born, but is dear to the mother who hears it today as she clasps
to her breast the evidence that through suffering she has earned the
greatest of all crowns, the crown of motherhood. So too, that which I
shall say may have been said before. My words may awake in your
minds remembrances of something you have heard or read and, perchance, thought beautiful; or hearing now for the first time, find interesting.
My object will have been attained and my hope realized if a few
moments of enjoyment ar~ added to your lives and I can feel that I
have helped us all to find:
"Songs in sunshine,
Tongues in trees,
Books in running brooks,
Sermons in stones
And good in everything."
Briefly then as to fe'.lowship in this great Institution and the obligation laid upon those who have knelt at its altars and taken upon
themselves its vows of service, as well as its honors of membership ;
Masonry is an art of such compass and extent that a knowledge
of its mysteries is attained only by degrees.

By much instruction and assiduous application are advances made.
Every step is progres_sive and brings to us new light and understanding
of which are born higher ideals, nobler aspirations and purer lives.
Preston, one of the greatest writers upon Masonic subjects says:
"According to the progress we make, we limit or extend our inquiries
and in proportion to our capacity we attain to a less or greater degre~
of perfection."

590

•

591

To be thoroughly instructed in the lectures, familiar with the ceremonies and proficient in the degrees of Masonry is, or should be the
ambition of all who stand within the sacred portals of its temple. 'But
this very inclination, laudable as it is, prompts a more rapid progress
through its forms than is consistent with a clear and adequate comprehension of its prin<;iples. This results in but a superficial, or at best,
only a theoretical and speculative knowledge of its sublime arcana and
by failing to absorb the beautiful lessons taught by its symbols' and
allegories, and enjoined by its rules, we do not live in its influence or
exhibit its effects. Satisfied with the shadow, we fail to find the substance and rest in the means without attaining the end.
Well has it been said that "he who understands the application of
the various tools and implement~ of the craft is thereby prepared for
every go9d work; but only he who uses and applies them to intellectual,
moral and social edification is the workman who need not be ashamed."
Therefore, our desire should not be merely to arrive at perfection
in the lectures and proficiency in the degrees but to enter into the spirit
of the solemn rites of our Institution, and learn the full import of its
interesting symbols that we may be perfect in the application of its
principles, in the possession of the virtues it demands, and in the discharge of the duties it enjoins.
As to the claim that Speculative Masonry is a Science: Science is
defined as: "Knowledge classified and made available in work in life
or in a search for truth."
'
'
Accepting this brief but beautiful definition, how completely it
justifies the claim that Freemasonry is a science. I would paraphrase
it and say it is the science of life, or of living as the Supreme Grand
Architect of the Universe intended man should live, as a free man,
free in all that the term implies, and rich in that freedom because of
having earned instead of inheriting it.
Someone has said that: "Life is made up of effort and results
and that the strength of the effort is the measure of the result."
If this be true, and I doubt if any will be found to question it it
inevitably follows that correlated unity of action in preparation for,
and co-operation in effort will be reflected in results or accomplishments.
Thus is presented the first maxim or established truth of Freemasonry, the strength of harmony, which is the shibboleth of our Institution.

GRAND LODG E OF CAL IFORNIA

592

593

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

By its recognition we are enabled to overcome all obstacles in our search
for truth and light, and in it we recognize the ~w of the Universe.
Under the operation of that law, the numberless spheres which
·compose this and other solar systems, roll on and ever on through the
vast immensity of limitless space, each an individual unit, yet each
a part of a perfect whole. Without that law suns would roll. on suns,
and systems, systems crush, and mighty chaos, appropriately called the
"insanity of nature's forces," arch enemy of heaven's first law, would
prevail.
Order prevents this dire result, and natural forces, working in
their accustomed manner and under "that supreme intelligence which
prevails all nature,'' finding expression in the law of cause and consequence, disclose certain truths and make apparent certain principles
which are generalized under the term science; in other words, as above
quoted : "Knowledge classified and made available in work, in life,
or in a search for truth."
Science is a comprehensive term, as its definition implies. There
is the science of many things : Mathematics is the science of numbers
and space : Geometry is that branch of mathematics that treats of the
measurements of lines, angles, surfaces and solids. Hence Operative
Masonry is an applied physical science in that through it knowledge,
classified and made available in work, is developed.
Speculative Masonry is a metaphysical science proC:ucing knowledge
classified and made available in the study of life and the search for
truth.
The analogy between Operative and Speculative Masonry, the use
of symbolism and allegory in explanation of that 'analogy and the
beautiful moral, ethical and spiritual lessons drawn therefrom, offer to
our initiates an ever increasingly interesting study of life and of the
high destiny of man, as the teachings and tenets of our Institution are
portrayed by our ritual.
The more noble and glorious purposes to which the working tools
of the Operative Art are theoretically applied in our Speculative
Science, are told in the beautiful allegory "The Search for Light."
All that the past has taught us, all that the present means to us, all
that the future has in store for us, is told in that sublimely beautiful
allegorical and symbolical interpretation of Speculative Masonry. The
search for light is a search for truth, for truth is the light of knowledge
as error is the darkness of ignorance.
Dante with soul attuned to the music of the spheres, plead for
human pr~gress when he wrote: "Give the world light and the people
will take care of the rest."

Our own Quaker, poet and scholar, Whittier, lover of truth and
justice, for the sake of justice and truth says: "Truth should be the
first lesson of the child and the last aspiration of manhood. * • * *
It is the sovereign good of human nature."
And so these ideas, born of the noble uses to which the working
tools of Operative Masonry are put, and of the results obtained, have
their correspondence in the thought life of Speculative Masonry, and
in the i_ndividual experience of its members.
More time than is available upon this occasion would be required
to do more than to refer briefly to some of the beautiful lessons presented by our noble science to the thoughtful mind.
From the time when, uninfluenced by friends or acquaintances,
and moved solely by a desire to avail himself of the teachings of an
Institution for which he feels a profound respect, and in a condition
of helplessness, which bears eloquent witness to his faith and trust in
those with whom he seeks to associate, the candidate alarms our outer
door, to the moment when he receives the right hand of fellowship
from the Master of his Lodge, a faithful picture of life, with its
strength and its weakness, its hopes and its fears its failures and its
successes, its sunshine and its shadows, is portray~d and presented 'by
allegory, symbolism and precept, and through all of the beautiful and
interesting drama is found the urge and influence to high ideals, noble
aspirations and worthy accomplishments, the realization of which finds
expression in perfect manhood and virtuous, well ordered lives. Hence
such teachings have become an active force for good in our civilization.
W hat greater good could parents wish for their sons than that
their lives and characters should be moulded upon and express the
beauty of thought and conduct of which the perfect ashlar is our Masonic
symbol? Or, more comprehensively, what more could be asked in
the interest of civilization and the moral, ethical and spiritual progress
of our race, than that man live as members of this great Order are
taught to live, "meeting upon the level, acting by the plumb and parting
I
upon the square?"
Omar Khayam, the Persian poet and philosopher, said of the Koran,
the Mohammedan ~ible: "Burn the libraries; their value is found in
this book."
With greater truth and logic the brethren of the Mystic Tie
could say : "Accept and live by the teachings and tenets of Freema~onry, and do away with legislatures and courts that make and
enforce the lawful requirements of society unde'r conditions incident
to our complex civilization.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

There are beautiful thoughts beautifully expressed, of man in his
revelation and duty to God, to his fellowman, and to himself, in the
Koran, just as there are in the Vegas of India,_ the Zenda-Vesta. of
Persia, the Sagas of Scandinavia, the Hebrew Scriptures and the Bible
of the Christians. All these sacred writings, sacred to the people
and civilizations whose religious thought they express, admonish, reprove and urge along moral, ethical and spiritual lines, but, with the
exceptions of the Hebrew Scriptures and the New Testament, t~ey
express these sentiments of guidance and direction with greatly varym~
degree of reference to and dependence upon the sense of moral respons1~
bility to a spiritual Deity, looking to preparation for a future state.
The religion of Buddha, founded about six hundred years before the
Christian era began, which has so many adherents in China, Japan,
Siam Thibet Burmah Ceylon and other Eastern countries, is founded
upon' correc; and vi;tuous conduct, not as a mea~s of reac~ing _a
fuller richer life in a future existence, but to avoid sorrow m this
life ~nd to reach "Nirvanll" or perfect rest. Some of his expressions
ris: to sublime heights of moral beauty, but his teachings are all too
barren of reference to One Supreme Being to whom conscience is
responsible. In other words, he proclaims the brotherhood of man
but does not reveal the fatherhood of God.
Buddhism therefore like the materialism of Confucius, has failed
to keep step ~ith higher' religious thought because it failed to teach its
adherents the necessity for moral, ethical and spiritual accomplishment,
and responsibility therefor. Just as an arch is complete when the
keystone has locked its parts and unified its elements of strength, so
faith and good works, the necessary requirements of religious life, when
crowned by the keystone of continued well-doing, not to avoid sorrow
and trial in this life, but in obedience to Divine command and in preparation for life eternal, form the arch of perfect life.
The claim that Freemasonry is a science, the science of proper
relationship to God and to our fellowman, is proven by the fact that
its every urge and influence is toward higher and better ideals, purer
and nobler living. In other words, it seeks to insure that each. of its
members be not less a man than God and nature intended he should
be, without fear and above reproach.
It does not claim to be a religion, yet the eternal truths underlying
religion, pure and undefiled, are basic and fundamental to our noble
science. It demands of its initiates, before being admitted to its fellowship, the same belief in God, the Suprem~ Grand Architect o_f .the
Universe, that is demanded by the church of him who professes rehg1on,
before the sacred rites of baptism are administered; and of its members although without sacrament, the same purity of life and conduct
as the church requires of its communicants. In fact our ceremonies, by

595

which good men and true, who knock at our door and are found worthy,
are admitted to membership in our Institution, may well be compared to
the baptismal rites by which religious fellowship is established.
·
Science and Religion, so long seemingly irreconcilable in principles
and teachings, are now recognized as two paths leading to the same
goal.
No longer are these two great lines of thought considered antagonistic or even divergent. Religion may be defined as acceptance of
truth revealed as the will and wisdom of Deity; Science as a search
for truth, the handmaiden and supporter of religion in that by investigation and demonstration it proves much that is claimed by
religious precepts, and by explanation satisfies doubt and skepticism.
The Decalogue, the foundation upon which rests one of the oldest,
if not the oldest revealed religion, seeks to rule or govern by prohibition
or command, yet the wisdom and justice. which find expression in the
ten commandments are easily susceptible of scientific demonstration.
The Golden Rule, for which the world waited .for unnumbered centuries, can be shown scientifically to be "best boon to mortals given"
in that its observance establishes justice and equity for all to the
advantage of all.
What better definition of Freemasonry can be found than the
words of Bishop Wilson applied to culture, which after all is like Freemasonry, a search for tru.th, "To make reason and the will of God
prevail," he says. How perfectly it describes the aim and object of the
teachings and tenets of our Institution ; a search for truth, a search
for that upon which civilization, ~he progress of our race, aye the
orderly existence of things physical and metaphysical depend.
Sir Francis Bacon, admittedly one of the deepest thinkers of the
past, thus describes the result of the search for truth in analyzing
science and religion: "A little science inclineth man's mind to atheism, but depth in phiolsophy bringeth men's minds about to religion."
Surely the spirit of prophecy, which in all ages has helped the finite
mind of man to discover the beauties of the unseen, inspired the philosopher as he thus proclaimed the bands that wedded science and religion.
Creatures of · circumstances, born of education and environment, as
we all are, thinking men of all ages have striven for the light of truth.
Barham Mirza, the Hindu philosopher, compares that striving to following the flight of a bird. "Truth," he says, "is a bird that flies so
fast the eye of man cannot follow it, and so high that it is lost to
sight in the skies. But now and then one of its feathers falls, and
when it t.ouches the earth it becomes a prophet 6uch as Mahomet or
Moses." In other words, a teacher.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Truth is eternal. It had no beginni~g, it will have ~o endlng.
It ~as and is, .and will be. Creation itself is but the manifestation of
trutp, under changing conditions. As it is eternal, so are its teach- .
ings · eternal: ·
·
The wonderful edifice, the erection of which immortalized the
names of our first Grand Master and his associates, and marked the
traditional inception of our Institution, was destroyed by the soldiers
of Nebuchadnezzar 588 years before the Christian era began, or more
than 2500 years ago ; but the truths of physical science applied by .
Operative Masonry to create the transcendant beauty and symmetry of
that wonderful structure, were not destroyed with it. The name of
Nebuchadnezzar is a mere signature sculptured on the walls of history,
but the lessons learned from the uses of the tools of Operative Masonry
applied to more noble a~d glorious pu~poses in our interesting science.
of Speculative Masonry, are, like truth, indestructible, as they are the
exp_ression of truth. Well has it been said that: "He who has found
truth, has rolled the stone from the door of the sepulcher, that the
light so long entombed and hidden by ignorance· and super?tition may

excel~ence,. and !nculcat~s love and appreciation of the good and the
beauh_ful m which we recognize the Infinite and through which is
established the brotherhood of man under the fatherhood f G d
te.aches the virtue of continued well-directed effort. Ralph
m
hishtexcellent book h"The University of Hard Knocks"
thou
, expresses th''
1s
. ~ concrete1Y w en he says, "It is fine to say we are rowing not
drtf~mg, upon the ocean of life, but how can we say it unless we to~ are
pullmg an oar ?"
It is not the act of standing on the mountain peak that make
strong, but the effort required to reach the height. and if e s ulds
understand
th e JOY
·
· ·
w results
woµ
. .
of stnvmg,
we must give little 'thought to
real~zmg that accordi~g to the eternal fitness of things the wise wili
~ece1ve what they desire and the virtuous what they deserve
Success
is .of value only as an evidence of worthiness, and our strength and our
wil.l .are but the agency of Supreme Intelligence not to be devoted to
str1vmg for self, bu~ that we may be the servants and instruments of
good. W~. must thmk not to be supreme in life's effort unless that
effor~ be m response to that great Force which is the voice of the
Infinite; the Force th~t makes man find his happiness and welfare in
the welfare and happmcss of his fellowman · the Force that male
us all brethren, children
· as ommpo· es
. . of one Father ,· the Force that 1s
t ent as God b ecause 1t 1s God, and God is Love. ·
~aving spoken gener~lly of Speculative Masonry as the Science
of Life, '.11ay I. not refer briefly more to the concrete and definite of the
manner m which so~e of the great lessons of Speculative Masonry ~re
e~pressed and explained by the beautiful allegories drawn from Operative Masonry?
Eac~ of t~e wor~ing tools thereof, or the result obtained by its use
as .I hav~ said, has its correspondence in the thought life of our Specn~
~at1ve s.c1ence, and. the lessons learned therefrom are beautiful and
1m~~ess1v_e, ~xpressmg to members of the craft a pure a holy
d
'
an an
ab1dmg s1gmficance.

596

sh_ine for all."
And so we reach the briefest possible definition of the science of
Freemasonry, "Knowledge of Truth." With that knowledge comes the
realization that God is truth and light and goodness and beauty, and
preeminently God is lov·e, as these are the elements and attributes of
love.
That iove is within us, over us, around about us. It is seen in the
beauty of the violet, and the fragrance of the rose ; in the glorious
tints of our gorgeous sunsets, and in the grace and loveliness of
woman; it is heard in the "Songs of birds and in the roar of the cataract; in the roll of the thunder and in the cooing lullaby of the
mother to the babe at her· breast; it burst forth into living beauty under
the chisel of Phideas and the brushes 'of Raphael and Angelo, and
from the pens of Shakespeare and Milton. He who creates beauty,
who promotes virtue, who unselfishly strives for the good of his fellowman, is an exponent of Truth and in thought and deed, if not . in
membership, a believer in the teachings and tenets of our great Institution.
Remembering the definition of science, that it is "Knowledge classified and made available in life, in work and in a search for truth," are
we not amply justified in our claim that Speculative Masonry is a
science. It is knowledge classified and made available in the activities
of life. Hence the conclusion is inevitable that it is a science, the
science ~f being right and of doing good, "The Aristocracy or Republic of Intelligent Effort for Human Progress." It is constructive in that
it develops reciprocal respect and esteem founded upon worth and

!t

597

~arle~e·

The square .is the symbol of conscious equity; the compass of
reasonable res~ramt and control; the twenty-four inch gauge of truthful demonstration; the gavel that which theoretically helps to form and
shape characte~; the plumb symbolizes rectitude of life and the level
d
·
hi's
equal opportumty for all to make use of God's gifts
blessings.
an enJ oy
A ~roper understanding of the noble uses of these important symbols brmgs to us the realization that by the use of the trowel is the
bond of brotherhood completed.
· .~orn, "".i~e. and oil, carried in our processions, speak in a language
fam11tar to mtttates of those noble attributes which sweeten life's asso-

598

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ciation and bring to us the joy of giving, remindi~g us that in the pilgrimage of human life "we should devote a portion of our bread to
feed the hungry send a cup of our wine to cheer the sorrowful, a.nd
r the healing' oil of sympathy and consolation into the wounds which
has made in the bodies, or affliction rent in the hearts of our
fellow travellers."

;~c'tcness

Like a benediction resting upon these and .other symbols and customs and permeating the beautiful lessons which proceed from t~em,
is the Divine influence of that great light in Masonry, the Holy Bible,
the symbol of our faith.
Jn explaining the analogy of the use of these tools of t~e Optrati~e
Art and these graphic and beautiful customs and teachmg.s of o~r
Spe~ulative Science, there is presented the great u.napprec1ate? but
d · bl truth that "the greatest depth of Masonic secre.:y 1s th!!
un
ema e act of
' doing good." Thus is the w ho1e 1aw o f ff1vine
· love
unpublished
fulfilled.
These are but a few of the pure and holy lessons taught .by o~r
n0 ble science. Every influence that proceeds from it is ennobling; its
d the
every urge 1· s to make those who kneel at its altars free fand· accepted;
free from the weakness that yields to the allurements o vice an
frailties incident to human nature, and accepted as examplars of. t~e
noble estate that God intended man should occupy; not because it is
decreed that he shall but rather that he may.
Clearly are the wisdom and beneficence of Deity manifested . in
the fact that man is a free moral agent. . Yet such ~re~dom of will,
l'ke faith without good works, availeth little; and 1t 1s only when
waits upon acceptance of responsibility. that he
free and accepted in the sense conveyed by the teachings of our Institution.

~evelopment

bc;com~s

The first step in obtaining that freedom is the recognitio~ of the ·
· t y o f Self· The next is the recognition
of
sovereign
. .of theh sovereignty be
Good. It is only by the acceptance of these princ~p1es t .at man ~an
free and accepted, and realize that he . "is made in the image and not
in the effigy of God."
Someone has said that life is comparable to a rail~oad of whi~h
we ourselves have built the road bed of our own experience and ~aid
the rails on which we are pushing our engines ahead to larger realizations or backward to failure and defeat. Difficultie~, or even temporary
defeat, should not dismay or discourage.
Somewhere the sun is shining, and confidence, patience and decision
often bring to us a fresh touch upon the strings of the harp of life.

599

Let us know then "that the highest lesson in life is not to live in
the present or in the future, but in the eternal.''
The old mystic Boehm declares that "He to whom time is as
eternity and eternity as time, is free," an aphorism worth remembering.
Strikingly are the pure and holy lessons taught by our ritual told
in the injunction, "Let your light so shine before men." In this, the
will of the Master finds expression as it does at times in the language
of parables, but the inference is plain.
The light which we are exhorted to "let shine" is the sentiment of
love and friendship expressed ln unselfish helpfulness.
To complete the analogy from which this lesson is drawn, we
must have ·some standard of comparison, something with which to contrast this light, the radiance ·of which we are bidden to disseminate, to
the end that our efforts may be seen of men and glory be given to Him
who orders all things well. That standard of comparison is sunshine.
Comparable to the life-giving, life-sustaining effect of sunshine in the
physical world, is that of friendship, faith and trust in the metaphysical,
or in man's association with his fellowman.
To be surrounded. by friends, to associate with those whose confidence we reciprocally enjoy, develops the best there is in us. We
grow and expand in those qualities of heart and mind which have
enabled us to command and deserve the esteem of our associates.
Equally important is the fact that if we deserve and -enjoy love and
confidence, we naturally exhale or throw off and create an atmosphere
of faith and trust, and the world is better for our having lived .in it.
Even the Master when He came to earth, preferred to be called the
"Friend.'' Friendship is the mirror of the soul, reflecting the strength
and the weakness of man. It is pregnant, with self-creative force,
and we should never forget that t he world gives to us just what we
give to the world ; a smile for a smile, a frown for a frown. Around
our sacred altars of 'friendship we assemble, bringing our votive offerings to that temple erected 'in the hearts of the brethren of the Mystic
Tie, the cornerstone whereof is virtue supported by wisdom, strength
and beauty. There, undisturbed by the urge of selfishness, or the call
of ambition, we keep alive upon those altars the sacred fires of Faith,
Hope and Charity and of Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth. T his is
the heritage which has come down to us, hoary with age, · ripe with the
wisdom of the passing years and rich in the glorious realization that
true happiness is found in unselfish effort to enliven the kindly sensi~
bil_ities of human nature, and to promote the eqdearing civilities of
social intercourse, and upon us is laid the sacred obligation of transmitting that heritage, pure and undefiled, to those who will come after
us.

600

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Just as there are periods when we are denied the blessing of sunshine, so, in the march of human events, individuals, states and nations
are called upon at times to stand within the shadows born of · selfish
greed, unholy passion or unworthy ambition. But such periods are
transitory, and as they are caused by disregard of right and truth, and
justice, so they can be terminated by the exercise of these virtues; and
never before in the history of civilization has there been so world-wide,
so universal a demand for the recognition of human rights and human
liberty by the final banishment of that arch enemy of the progress of our
race, the first and worst of the four dread horsemen of the Apocalypse,
the appearance of which creates conditions which invite and presage the
coming of the other three.
The greatest issue ever presented to the civilized world is demanding attention. To the eternal credit of our country and of themselves,
be it remembered that two of our Chief Magistrates, one at least of
whom is a member of this great Institution, have striven to bestow
upon world civilization the blessing of universal peace. Our sympathies
and our prayers are with President Harding and his capable Secretary of
State in their noble efforts. No Moses climbing Sinai's height to
receive instructions from the Infinite ever brought greater blessing to
earth; no plumed knight of the golden age of chivalry, who strove for
the redemption of the Holy Sepulcher, or sought for the Holy Grail,
.e ver had nobler quest; and may their efforts be crowned by the realization of Tennys<?n's dream, told in the prophetic words:
"When war drums beat no longer,
And battle flags are furled;
In the Parliament of Nations,
The Congress of the World."
Just one more thought that is of absorbing interest to all. The
growth and development of our Institution, not alone in membership, but
al!o in keen and analytical appreciation of its teachings and tenets, have
been appropriately and ably referred to by our Most Worshipful Grand
Master. With a past glorious in achievement, a present satisfactory· in
conscious strength and security, and a future rich in faith and hope and
proi'nisc, this great Institution can felicitate itself today in that it has
been wcigned in the balance and not found wanting. But, my brethren,
"eternal vigilance must be our watchword."
I note, and know you must, with deep and abiding satisfaction the
presence of so many young men enrolled upon our roster. Fathers and
brothers, you who may we'.! be called the "Elder Statesmen" of this
great fraternity, you whose hairs, like my own, are whitened by fhe
advancing steps of time, if Masonry in California is to retain the proud

601

pos~tiOn . of worth . and excellence . which you . have given it, . the mantle
which you have so worthily worn must fall upon the shoulders 0 £ these
young men.

~t us give them a message of hope and of faith. He who spake
not with the tongue of man has said, "Ye shall win if ye faint not."
In the beautiful language of the poet :
"So nigh is grandeur to our dust
So near is God to man
'
When duty whispers 'Lo, thou ~ust,'
The soul responds, 'I can'."
In conclusion, brethren, as we gather here today in the pride f
our manh~od and in the fellowship of our Institution to discharge o~r
duty to this Grand ilo.dy, let us not forget that in the archives of the
Supreme Grand Architect of the Universe, a record of our lives is
kept ~nd that. the Book of Life tells the story of how we have fulfilled
our high destiny.
Let u_s find hope and faith in the thought that in every human heart
God has implanted a. part of Hims.e lf which in the long march of the
ages down t~e. _cor~tdors of time, has ever found expression in the
progress of c1v1hzat10n, and the moral and ethical development f
race.
o our

Finall~, my brethren, let me close by quoting a definition of Freemasonry given by Rev. Dr. Harris, Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge
Free and Accepted Masons of Massachusetts more than one hundred
analysis, the logic and the conclusions are alike admiryears ago.
able, appealt?g and convincing. He says: "Freemasonry is a moral
o~der of enhghtened men, founded upon sublime, rational ~nd manly
piety, and pure an~ active virtue. Its teachings are Universal Benevolence, generous Philanthropy and affectionate Brotherly Lo · "t I
are Reaso
d 1"- •
.
•
•
ve, ts aws
.
n an -'-"'lu.1ty; _its prmc1ples Charity and Love, and its religion
Pu:1~y a?d Truth_; its aim and object is 'Peace on Earth,' and its disposition Good Will Toward Man'."

!he

In that spirit may we discharge every duty which we . owe to God
to .ou~ country, to our fellowman and to ourselves, thereby helping t~
build m the heart of each one of us a temple "not made with h d "
And when the. sum~ons shall come, as it must come to all, to ::;~r
the pangs of d1ssolvmg nature, and we drift down into the d k
II
of. t?e shadow of eternity to the side of the tideless river a;ro;a t~~
shmmg farther. shore may we hear our nam~s enrolled in that Grand
Lodge over which th: Supre~e Grand Master forever presides, as there
comes to us the glorious realization that death is not the end of al~ but

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

only the end of an earthly day and the beginning of a day that will know

lution offered by a brother to be then considered, deferring consideration thereof to the next stated meeting, on the ground that
the same was not introduced at the proper time, but during the
closing ceremonies. The resolution was offered in response to
the question of the Master introductory to 'the actual closing ceremony, "Has any brother anything to offer for the benefit of Masonry in general or of this Lodge in particular?"

602

no end.
As a last word I ask you, my brethren, individually ~nd collectively,
.
h
.
best wishes of one whose cordial regard and
to accept t e smcere
.
fraterna.1 affection you will ever share.

The representatives present manifested their pleasure
and appreciation by long-continued applause. The thanks
of Grand Lodge were tendered the distinguished b~other,
and he was requested to furnish a copy of the oration for
publication in the Proceedings. The ~rand ~e.cretary was
directed to cause to be printed copies m sufficient number
for distribution to the Lodges and brethren.

RECEIPTS FOR DUES TO BE EXHIBITED
Brother Frank M. Beardsley presented a resolution
proposing to change the ceremonies of openi~g a Lodge and
to provide that visitors shall exhibit ~ receipt for curren~
dues. Referred to the Committee on Ritual.
TELEGRAM FROM PAST GRAND
MASTER PERKINS
A telegram from Past Grand Master George C. ~erkins
· whi.ch that aged brother expressed
was read , .1n
. his . keen
appreciation of the thoughtfulness of Grand Lodge m remembering him.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUD~NCE
The Committee on Jurisprudence presented the following reports relative to .the Decisions of the Grand Master:
Decisions
To the M:. w.\ Grand Lodge of' California:
We have had under consideration ~he ~ecisions of the Most
Worshipful Grand Master as reported m his address, and report

thereon as follows:
1 Dedsion 1 presents the following facts: The Master of a
Lodg.e, at a stated meeting of the Lodge, refused to allow a reso-

603

The Grand Master ruled that the Master of the Lodge should
have allowed the Lodge to consider the resolution.
We are satisfied that the conclusion of the Grand Master was
correct. We do not rest our conclusion entirely on the formal
language prescribed as the preliminary to the actual closing ceremonies, further than to say that the language immediately following, "If not, we will proceed to close," clearly enough shows,
as the Grand Master says, that the process of closing had not yet
commenced. In other words, the Lodge was still fully open when
the resolution was offered. The only possible legal objection to
· the consideration of the resolution at the time it was offered was
that possibly, in view of Article XII of the Uniform Code of
By-laws prescribed by the Grand Lodge for our Lodges, it could
· not be considered after the order of tusiness specified in that
Article had been concluded. The Article provides that "the regular
order of business at every stated meeting· of this Lodge shall be
as follows:

1.
·2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Reading of the minutes.
Repo s of Committees.
Balloti g.
Recepti n of petitions.
Miscell eous and unfinished business.
Conferri g of degrees.

This, so far as appears, is the only provision of our law relative to the matt here involved. It is not necessary here to consider whether th s Article was designed to lay down a hard and
fast ru.le which u der no circumstances could be departed from by
a Lodge. It doe not more at most than to prescribe the regular
order in which usiness shall be transacted at a stated meeting.
The resolutio here fell under the 5th, and, except for the conferring of degr es, the last subdivision of the Article, viz.: " Miscellaneous atid unfinished business." The minutes show that no
degree / as conferred at that meeting, so that insofar as the order
.of-business was concerned, it came up in the Qrder prescribed by
the Article. And, as stated by the Grand Master, the formal question by the Master prescribed by our ritual, "Has any brother

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

605

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

604

anything," etc., implies a common acceptation of the practice of
considering at that time any miscellaneous and unfinished business
that may be suggested.
We conclude, therefore, that inasmuch as the closing ceremonies had not commenced at the time the resolution was offered,
the resolution was in order, and should have been submitted t.o
the Lodge for consideration.
The Grand Master was right in so ruling.

Adopted.
2. This decision related to certain transactions on the part of
Evergreen Lodge No. 259, with relation to the gift of certain
shares of stock of the value of $1,000 owned by the Lodge to a
community hospital, and the proposed payment to such hospital
of $1,500 in consideration of a promise on the part of the hospital
to "dedicate a room" with an inscription therein as to "the donor,"
and to allow the Lodge to occupy the same for a Mason when not
otherwise occupied, charging only a hal.f rate therefore in such.
until such time as the other half-rate amounts,in the aggregate to
the full sum of $2,500, being an amount equal to the $1,000 stock
donated and the $1,500 paid.
We are informed that this matter has been completely closed
and that the case is practically a moot case.
Insofar as the Grand Master ruled that the gift of the stock
was in violation of our law, his decision was undoubtedly correct.
Insofar as the proposed expenditure of $1,500 was in substance a
donation or gift to the community hospital, it was forbidden by
our law. We think it should be stated, however, that there is nothing in our law precluding a reasonable contract by a Lodge for
hospital accommodations, involving the expenditure by the Lodge
of money for such accommodations even though the same be paid
in advance. We certainly do not consider the proposed arrangement here a wise arrangement financially.

Adopted.
3. The Grand Master decided that a Lodge could not receive
an application for the degrees from a sea-faring man, 21 ?'ears old
am:! unmarried, who had never been within the Jurisdiction of the
Lodge, and where claim to the requisite reside~ce therei~ was
based solely on the fact that his parents had resided therein for
six months. This was not sufficient to establish residence on the
part of this adult son, an·d t_he decision of the Grand Master was

- - - - -GQtrect.

~recommend that it be approved.

AdoP\

)

. 4. Decision 4 was made in a case where a ballot upon a petition for the degrees disclosed a single cube. No second ballot
was taken, as is required by our law in such a case. The Master
should at once, without disclosing the result, have ordered a second ballot for the purpose of correcting a possible mistake, without permitting any discussion before the second ballot. (Section
104, Const.) Because members who were not present at the time
of the first ballot had entered the Lodge room, it was concluded
that no second ballot could be had, and by unanimous vote of the
Lodge a dispensation for a re-ballot was thereupon asked.
•
The Grand Master very properly held that the coming in of
members absent at the first ballot should not have been allowed to
interfere :Vith the taki~g of a second ballot as required by our law,
but that inasmuch as 1t had accomplished that improper result a
re-ballot under dispensation was "the simplest and most just w~y"
to obviate the effect of the error.
We recommend that the decision be approved.

Adopted.
5. In decision 5, the Grand Master ruled that one who has
a petitioner for the degrees, by signing the petition
~n th.at . capacity, cannot withqraw his name from the petition or
1mpa1r its effect as a valid petition after it has been received by
th.e .Lodge, and reported on favorably by the investigating comnuttee, and the Lodge is about to ballot thereon. The decision of
the Grand Master was correct, as were the reasons given by
him . therefor.
We recommend th'at the· decision be approved.
~ecommended

Adopted.
.
6. . ~ecision 6 in_v?lved a question of invasion of jurisdiction
in receiving two pet1t10ns for degrees. Upon the material facts
stated in the decision, viz. : that the petitioners tived throughout
the greater part of the year within the Jurisdiction of the complaining Lodge, and had been for years registered voters of communities within such Jurisdiction, we are of opinion that the
Grand Master properly ruled that they were residents within such
Jurisdiction, notwithstanding that their families were staying in a
town ~ithin the Jurisdiction o f another Lodge and that during
the winter months they stayed with their families in such town.
A man may establish his residence away from his family if he
chooses to do so, and registration by one as an elector in a certain place is at least very strong evidence that he there resides.
(Sec. 95e, Const.)
·
We recommend that the decision of the Grand Master be · approved.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

607

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

606

Petition of · Eden Lodge for Concurrent Jurisdiction

To the M.< w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Eden Lodge No. 113 requests the adoption of a resoluti~n
granting it " concurrent" jurisdiction with the Lodges of the city
of Oakland over all the territory over which the Lodges of such
city now have jurisdiction. The application is accompanied b?' certificates showing the consent of all the Lodges of the city of
Oakland. The application has been approved by the Grand Master.
We regret to be compelled to report that there is no authority
under our law as it now stands for conferring such concurrent •
jurisdiction. The construction of section 92a of our Constituti~n ·
is definitely settled by our decision rendered in the year 1919 m
the case of San Fernando Lodge No. 343, where we held that "the
Grand Master correctly concluded that under our existing law the
Lodge could not be given concurrent jurisdiction with the Lodges
of the city of Los Angeles over territory within the legal bounds
of the city of Los Angeles." (Proc. 1919, p. 574.)
What Eden Lodge No. 113 really wants is jurisdiction over
the territory it lost by reason of · its annexation to the city of
Oakland. Its situation in this respect is the same as was that of
San Fernando Lodge No. 343, and its remedy is to ask for a resolution giving it exclusive jurisdiction over that territory. If not~ce
of such an application had been given to the Lodges of the city
of Oakland, we might 11ow consider the application. But no such
application was made, the application asking and the Oakland
Lodges consenting only to a resolution giving concurrent jurisdiction.
We are of opinion that the present application must, if we
adhere to our law, be disapproved.

return to the legal representatives of the candidate the sum fixed
by the by-laws for the degree or degrees not conferred.

Report adopted, and section 127 was amended as set out
. above by unanimous vote.
Bakersfield Board of Relief
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration
the proceedings for the formation of a Board of Relief in the city
of Bakersfield, approved by the Grand Master. There is no written
evidence present of a compact among the Lodges composing the
Board, although we are informed by representatives now in attendance from the Lodges at Bakersfield that proper action was
actually taken. We suggest that formal action be taken and
certified to the Grand Master by the Lodges which are to be parties
to the compact, and that when such certification be presented, that
the compact be then approved.

Adopted.
Life Memberships Approved
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence h·as examined the records
of resolutions creating life memberships approved by the Grand
Master, and find them to be in accordance with the provisions of
our Constitution. We therefore recommend that the action of
the Grand Master in this respect be approved.
FRANK M. ANG!lu.o'l'TI,
CHARLJ!S L. PATTON,
BENJAMIN F. BLP:DSOJI,
DANA R. W!!LLJIR,
ALBERT G. BuRNl!TT,

Adopted.

v.

K!!!!SLING,
FRANCIS
JoHN D. MuRPHJIY,

Return of Fees on Death of Petitioner

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
In the matter of return of fees in case. of death of the candidate referred to this Committee last session, the Committee submits' the following and recommends its adoption: .
Amend Section 127 of the Constitution by inserting therein,
after the words "under any pretext whatever," the following:
Provided, however, that if the candidate shall die before receiving the degrees or any of them and the fees shall not have
been 'forfeited under the provisions of the by-laws, the Lodge shall

Committee.

Adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M.". w :. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-I:.aws begs leave to report that the
. proposed amendments to by-laws submitted by various Lodges and
approved during the year by the Grand Master, are all in proper
fotm, and we recommend their approval by this Grand Lodge.

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

608

To the M:. w:. Gr~nd Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has had under consideration
the by-taw'S of Lo<lge'S under <lispensati-On and begs leave to report:
That we have carefully examined the by-laws of said Lodges
and find the same in proper form, with the exception of Joppa and
Benjamin Franklin Lodges.
In the case of Joppa Lodge, that portion of their by~ll;ws
which should provid~ for the fees to be charged for the rema.mmg
degree or degrees after the first or the seco~d degree has been
conferred in another Lodge, was never filled t~, .or any fee p:ovided. We therefore recommend that said om1ss1ons be supplied
by Joppa Lodge and that a certified copy thereof be forwarded to
the Grand Master for his approval.
As regards the by-laws of Benjamin Franklin Lodge, your
Committee finds that the charter members have failed to sign the
same. We therefore recommend that the signatures of ~he charter
members be affixed to the by-laws at the earliest practicable date
and that the Secretary of said Lodge certify to the Grand Secretary upon the pPoper completion thereof.
.
We further recommend that with the extept1ons of the two
Lodges above noted, the by-laws of said Lodges undeT dispensation be and the same are hereby approved. ,
RespectfuUy submitted,
CHAS. K. TUTTLE,
T. M . WRIGHT,
FRANCIS W. Mrxn:R,

A. F. SouzA, JR.
R. w. CLAPP,
Committee.

Adopted.

Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock Thursday
morning. ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

609

3Ju "raull 1Jlnllge.
Morning Session
Thursday, October 13, 1921.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clook, the Grand
Master presiding.
A particularly pleasing feature of the opening ceremonies
was a vocal solo by Brother Ralph H. Lachmund, Master
of Doric Lodge No. 216, with Brother Charles E. Anderson,
Senior Warden of Jewel Lodge No. 274, presiding at the
organ. The enthusiastic thanks of Grand Lodge were tendered to these brethren.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
EDUCATION
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Education is pleased respectfully
to report that much genuine progress has been made along the
lines which were prescribed by this Grand Lodge at its last Communication. The work of this Committee is essentially pioneer in
· its character; for that reason it is necessarily slow in development.
Because of that fact, your Committee has at all times strenuously
endeavored to avoid proposing or countenancing that which might
subject to unwarranted criticism the program approved by Grand
Lodge.
If conditions which have been beyond the power of the Committee to control have rendered it impossible to report as large a
measure of progress as might have been desired, it has been due
in part to the determination to avoid any action which well-meaning
men might justly construe as too radical a departure from the tra•
ditions of the Craft.
In those communities where there has existed the clearest
understanding on the part of the officers and' members of constituent Lodges regarding the purposes of the committee, and the
scope within which its actions have nece ssarily been confined, there
has been the fullest co-operation. In such localities there has

610

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

been evinced an aroused interest in the far-reaching effect of the
educational program, as reflected by an increased attendance in
the Lodges, better Lodge management, and a more intelligent conception and performance of Masoni.c responsibility.
Owing to the dis-similarity of conditions and needs throughout
this Grand Jurisdiction it has been quite impossible to formulate
a hard and fast program which would be uniformly adaptable. It
has been found that to quite a degree self-determination by each
Lodge must be the rule. This conclusion applies to topics as well
as to speakers.
Regarding both topics and speakers; your committee can not
assume responsibility for all speakers who have appeared before
Lodges. It has, however, always stressed the absolute necessity
of avoiding controversial and partisan questions which might cause
distress to those holding contrary opinions. 'J:he fact has ever
been emphasized that it has never been the purpose of Grand
Lodge, nor has it been the intention of this committee to lend
itself to any subtle p~opaganda. The endeavor has always been
made to impress the importance of the avoidance of action by
i.odges along any particular lines. The supreme effort in the work
has been to disseminate information of an accurate, dependable
character and particularly to inspire our members to make a practical application of Masonic principles and truths to individual and
civic life. If that inspiration could be obtained through a lecture
on Masonic history, philosophy, or symbolism, or through a discussion of human welfare problems and the outstanding· needs of
the day, this committee has always been, willing and ready to cooperate to the best of its ability.
To weigh or measure the far-reaching influence of the educational work would be quite an impossible task. Its value is cumulative and cannot be determined in the same mann~r one would
estimate the worth of a material commodity. One of the important
phases of the activity of the committee has been that dealing with
the consideration of more efficient Lodge management, with espe.
cial reference to effective methods concerning our accessions.' As
a result of such discussions, valuable assistance has · been rendered ..
Our appreciation is due the Inspectors who, in addition to
their numerous duties and responsibilities, have unselfishly supported the work.
To obtain first-hand information regarding the progress and.
effectiveness of the educational work and to receive suggestions
to form a basis for a further development of the educational program, the General Chairman of this committee, with the approval
9f the M.'.W.'.Grand Master, called a conference in ea~h of the four

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

611

districts of this Grand Jurisdiction. On August 20th, he attended
a conference af Sacramento of the Masters and Wardens of the
Northern District. On August 27th, he attended a conference at
San Francisco of the Masters and Wardens of the Bay Counties
District. On September 10th, he attended a conference at Visalia
of the Masters and Wardens of the Central District. On September 23rd, he attended a· conference in Los Angeles, of the Masters
and Wardens of the Southern District. These four conferences
were marked by a splendid spirit of enthusiasm and a determination to carry on the work with greater vigor than ever before.
As an evidence· of the keen interest taken in the educational work
several of the Masters and Wardens in one district drove a distanc~
of 125 miles to attend the gathering. At another conference officers of the Lodges came a distance of 250 miles.
At each conference a full and free discussion was had of the
pressing needs of the Lodges along Masonic educational lines.
The desire was everywhere manifested to find a vigorous, practical
application of Masonic principles to the life of today. Not too
much value can be placed on the inspiring influence of confer.e nces
as indicated. . It proves conclusively the necessity for the officers
of Lodges in a given district to meet together, think a~d plan
together for broader and more efficient methods in carrying on
Masonic activities.
As a result of the conferences held in the several districts
the. following deductions have been made representing the composite views of the officers of many Lodges.
1. It is clearly apparent that some plan must be evolved
immediately to send speakers to the Lodges in outlying commu. nities, where the pleasure and profit of hearing well-informed
brethren is an infrequent occurrence. This phase of the work well
merits the most careful consideration of this Grand Lodge.
2. Individual Lodges in many of the outlying districts cannot
afford to pay the necessary . traveling expenses for bringing speakers from a long distance. Adequate financial provision should be
made by Grand Lodge to solve that phase of the problem and
care for· their needs.
3. A consistent effort should be made to hold group meetings
of the Lodges within a reasonable distance of each other to hear
well qualified Masonic speakers.
4. The value of Officers' Associations is again einpha·sized in
building a better Masonic community spirit, not alone in rural districts, but in the larger centers as well.
5. Outlines of Masonic talks should be prepared by the committee, that speakers may be developed in each and every Lodge,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

612

The proper administration of the duties of this committee
necessarily entails a vast amount of labor. Considering the large
territorial dimensions of the State and that the general chairman
of th~ committee ought to ~isit the several centers for the purpose
of attending personally to the organization of the work, and also
that at all times there are many details demanding attention, we
feel that the time is fast approaching when it will become necessary
for this Grand Lodge to employ a capable executive, under an
adequate salary, who would be required to devote his entire time
to the development of educational work.
While the .time may not now be ripe for this plan wt; feel
that in the near future its adoption will become imperative if full
scope is to be given to the growth of Masonic educational work,
and we therefore recommend such step to the thoughtful consideration of the Grand "Lodge.
Your Committee desires to make the following recommendations:
1. That the present form of organizatioll of this Committee
be continued.
2. That the organization of Officers' Associations be continued.
3. That means to meet the needs of outlying Lodges be given
immediate attention.
4. That speakers' boards be formed in each of the districts.
5. That the policy of holding group meetings of Lodges in
the interest of educational work be encouraged.
6. That an adequate appropriation be made for the work of
this committee.

'I

;-_

613

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IRVING J. MrTCH!iLL,
W . W.KAY!i,
FRANK
MIXT!iR,
]OHM F. W!iST,
CHAS. H. VICTOR,
PAUL BURKS,
• ANDR!iW L. JOHNSON,
HARRY S. F osTtR,

w.

Committee.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and Purposes.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to whom was referred the
following trial records, to-wit :
Record No. 283-Alcatraz Lodge No. 244.
Record No. 286-Coalinga Lodge No. 387.
Record No. 287-Balder Lodge No. 393.
Record No. 288-Burlingame Lodg.e No. 400.
Record No. 289-Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482.
Record No. 290-San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.
Record No. 291-San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.
Record No. 293-Yosemite Lodge No. 99.
respectfully reports that there has been no appeal taken in any of
these cases. The record in each case has been carefully examined
and while, in some instances, it cannot be said that the record
is free from error, yet, in the opinion of your Committee, substantial justice has been done in all of them.
The Committee therefore recommends the adoption of the
following resoluti<m :
Resolved, That the decision in each of the above mentioned
cases, and the action of the Lodge therein be and the same are
hereby approved.

Adopted.
To the M.'. W.' . Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the
following trial records, beg leave to report as follows :
In Trial Record No. 284, San Francisco Lodge No. 360-The
accused was charged with making false staterpents in his petition
for the degrees with reference ttl his former places of residence
and his former business and occupation. The evidence indicates
he did this for the purposes of concealment, and that if the petitio11er had made truthful statements in that Behalf, he would have
been rejected. The µenalty fixed by the Commissicmers was suspension. Your Committee feels that under these circumstances he
should have been expelled, and therefore offers the following r esolution :
Resolved, That the judgment of the Lodge by which the
accused was tried 'be and the same is hereby modified, and that
the penalty be and the same is hereby fixed at expulsion.

The report was adopted, and J. M. Bittancourt was
dec'lared .expelled from all the rights and privi1eges of
Masonry.

614

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the M .... w:. Grand Lodge of California:
In Trial Record No. 280, San Diego Lodge No. 35-In this
case the accused represented in his petition for the degrees that
he had never been rejected by a Masonic Lodge, whereas in truth
and fact, he had been rejected by a Masonic Lodge in Pennsylvania.
The evidence indicates that he did this for the purpose of concealing his past record, and t~at had the truth been known, he would
have been rejected. In this case also the. penalty was fixed at
suspension. Your Committee are of the opinion that in this case
also the penalty should be expulsion. We therefore offer the
following resolution :
Resolved That the judgment of the Lodge by which the
accused was "tried be and the same is hereby modified, and that
the penalty be and the same is hereby fixed at expulsion.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

615

dence is insufficient to sustain a conviction upon any of the charges
specified, but is of the opinion that evidence, including admissions
of the accused, warrant the filing of amended charges. We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved, that the judgment of the Lodge be reversed and
that the accuser be permitted to amend the specifications of his
accusation, and that"° in that event the accused be tried before a
new commission elected for that purpose on such amendecl specifications.

Adopted.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Report adopted·, and Adolph G. Meyer was declared expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Your Committee on Grievances, to . whom was referred the
petition of Julier Clyde Hizer for restoration to the rights and
privileges o~ Masonry, desires to report as follows:

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom had been referred
Trial Record No. 271, trie·d by E vergreen Lodge No. 259, respectfully reports as follows :
.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the evidence is insufficient to support the first specification set forth in the charge but
the evidence is amply sufficient to support the second specification ·
charged, and it is clear that the accused should be expelled. We
therefore offer die following resolution :
Resolved, That the judgment of suspension be reversed and
that the accused be and he is hereby expelled from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry. .
(Brother A. Heber Winder, a member of the Committee,
deeming himself disqualified, did not participate in the deliberations
or decision in this case.)

The petitioner, then a member of Coronado Lodge No. 441,
was expelled by Blackmer Lodge No. 442 on May 5th, 1919. He
had been found guilty of conspiracy to violate section No. 13 of
the Criminal Code of the United States ; it being shown at his
trial that he had been convicted of the offense in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California, in the case
known as the Hindu case, and had been sentenced to imprisonment
for one year and to pay a fine in the sum of $5,000.

The report was adopted, and Charles H. Daurp was
declared expelled from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances and Appeals, to which was
referred Trial Record No. 292, from Wilshire Lodge No. 445, begs
to report as follows :
In this case the trial commission acquitted the accused, from
which an appeal was taken. Your Committee finds that the evi-

Notice of the petition for restoration has been duly given by
petitioner to Blackmer Lodge, but no action thereon appears to
have been 'taken by that Lodge. Strong representations in favor
of the granting of the petition have been made to the Committee
by certain members of the fraternity, and should the action of
your Committee be determined alone by the character of these
representations, it might be that that determination would be in
approval of the petition; but when we consider the nature of the
offense of which he. was convicted, that of a violation of the neutrality laws of our Nation, we feel that the time has not yet come
for the restoration of the applicant.
Your Committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of Julier Clyde Hizer for restoration be denied.

Adopted.

L ..

616

PROCEl!:VINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge. of CaJjfornia:

617

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the
petition of E. H. C. for restorati<>n to the rights and privileges
of Masonry, respectfully reports as follows:
·

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom' was referred Trial
Record No. 285, from Azusa Lodge No. 305, respectfully reports:

Trial record No. 246 discloses that charges of unmasonic conduct were preferred in the year 1917 in Humboldt Lodge No. 79
against E. H. C., then a member of said Lodge, said charge being
that of defrauding the Government, for which offense he entered
a plea of guilty and a fine of $300 was thereupon imposed.

The accused was charged with having mailed or caused to be
mailed to a brother Mason, a certain anonymous and defamatory
letter; that the letter purported to be sanctioned by
certain
Masonic Lodge and that the accused had subsequently expressed
sympathy for the alleged wrongful act.

The proceedings were transferred to Arcata Lodge No. 106.
The accused was tried, found guilty and the sentence of reprim11nd
was fixed by the Commission, which sentence was, however, set
ai;ide by the Grand Lodge and the penalty of suspension imposed.

The accused was found guilty as charged, and the penalty
fixed at expulsion. The accused has perfected an appeal.
fro~ writing the letter nor that he· had any personal animosity

Due steps for restoration as provided by Section 212 of the
Constitution were taken by the petitioner by filing his application
with Arcata Lodge. The application was there refused.

against the addressee. We believe that it was written through an
over-zealous but inexcusable effort on the part of the accused to
raise money to clear .a .debt on a Masonic temple.

The applicant now petitions the Grand Lodge, notice in writing of said application having been duly given Arcata Lodge. In
support of the petition for restoration, a copy of a resolution unanimously adopted by Humboldt Lodge in April, 1919, was presented.
Your Committee is informed by the Master of Arcata Lodge that
the adverse action taken by that Lodge was not based on any
personal objection to the applicant, but on the theory that the
question of restoration was one to be determined solely by the
Grand Lodge.
The petition is also supported by the endorsement of two
past Grand Masters and other Masons, all of whom are per&-0natly
acquainted with the applicant.
We ' are entirely satisfied from 'the showing made that the
petition should be granted.
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
·
Resolved, That the petition of E. H. C. be granted and that
said petitioner be and he is hereby restored to the rights and
privileges of Masonry.

Report adopted, and E. H. C. was declared restored
to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

a

There is no showing in the record that the accused profited

Your Committee is of the opinion that, while the eviden~e is
not strong, , yet it is sufficient to sustain the verdict of the trial
commission. We believe, however, that the penalty o.f expulsion
is too severe under the circumstances, and we recommend that
the penalty be fixed at suspension.
Your ·Committee, therefore, recommends the adoption of the
following resolution:
'
Resolved, That the judgment of Azusa Lodge No. 305, in this
case be and the same is hereby modified and the penalty fixed at
suspension.
G!!OJtG!t,L. ]ONXS,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
ALTllR F. HAAS,
E. HEBER WINDJlR,

w

E. B. PoWJtR,

Committee.

Report adopted, and the judgment of Azusa Lodge modified accordingly.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

618

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ENDOWMENT
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
We, the members of your Endowment Committee of the
Masonic Homes of California, appointed by the Grand Master at
the close of the last . Grand Lodge, beg to report that owing to
the fact our activities have been somewhat limited, we have only
had a slight increase in our Endowment Fund.
· The Grand Treasurer advises the Permanent Endowment Fund
of the Masonic Homes of California, as of July 31, 1921, is as
follows :

C~sh on hand August 1, 1920:...............................................- ....$ 6,738.78
Receipts
Donations ...:........~.........:....:.........:...~ .......................$ 3,156.09
Bequests .......:.......................................................... 3,180.25
Sundry receipts ...................................................... 1,710.60
City of Santa Barbara bond redeemed ............ 1,000.00
Sale $48,850 Third 4y.(% Liberty Loan Bonds 44,560.96
l - $50 First 3:V2% Liberty Loan Bond..
1- $1 ,000 First 3:V2% Liberty Loan Bond..
$300 First 4y.( o/o Liberty Loan Bonds
· $400 Fifth 4~ % Liberty Loan Bonds
$59,500 Fifth 4~ % Liberty Loan Bonds 59,975.75
Difference interest between sale and purchase of U. S. GQvernment bonds................
442.52

619

Composition of Endowment Fund
Cash-Humboldt Savings Bank................,.......$ 7,566.14
Cash-Anglo California Trust Company........
459.78
City of Santa Barbara 4~% Water Bonds.... 11,287.50
City of Santa Barbara 4:V2o/o Mu. Im. Bonds 3,000.00
City and County of S. F . 5% City Hall Bonds 1,000.00
City and County of S. F. 5% Bonds................ 1,000.00
City and County of S. F. 4:V2 % Water.............. 12,000.00
City of Richmond 5% Bond.s.............................. 5,000.00
City of Upland 6% Bonds.................................. 3,125.00
City of Ashland 5% Water Bonds.................... 9,000.00
Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. 5% Bonds.................... 16,000.00
Cal. Gas & Electric Corp. 5% Bonds.............. 10,000.00 $ 79,438.42
First 4y.( % Liberty Loan Bonds converted $11,000.00
Second 4y.( % Liberty Loan Bonds converted 69,000.00
Third 4y.( % Liberty Loan Bonds converted 11,000.00
Fourth 4y.( % Liberty Loan Bonds. converted 136,800.00
Total U . S. Government Bonds ................$227,800.00
Less discount on bonds bought and sold i8,155.81 $209,644.19
Permanent Endowment Fund, 'July 31, 1921..
$289,082.61
Endowment Fund-July 31, 1921......................$289,082.61
Endowment Fund-July 31, 1920...................... 279,685.67
Increase for the year...•................:.......................$ 9,396.94

Total receipts ..................................................

$114.026.17

Total available ·········-·····································

$120,764.95

Disbursements
Bought $11,000 Third Liberty Loan Bonds ....$ 9,813.20
$48.850 Fourth Liberty Loan Bonds.. 42,967.34
$68,250 Fourth Liberty Loan Bonds.. 68,958.49
Total disbursements ....................................

$112,739.03

Cash balance ..................................................

$ 8,025.92

It will be readily noted that we have made the smallest showing since the campaign to build up the Endowment Fund was
instituted. However, we feel that our brethren are obtaining a
more thorough knowledge of what we are accomplishing in the
Homes through the medium of the moving picture films, which
were exhibited in the Lodge rooms of the subordinate Lodges of
this Jurisdiction.
As advised in last year's report, the pictures of the Orphans'
Home at Covina were take.n by the Robert Brunton Studios of
Hollywood, the present officers of which are members of the
Fraternity, who made no charge for the work performed. The
pictures of the Home for the elderly at Decoto were under the
direction of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes. These pictures
were arranged so as to give our brethren an intimate knowledge
of the equipment of the Homes and an insight into the lives of
the occupants.

620

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother J. M. Whited, in charge of the films in the northern
part of the State, detailed Brother W. R. Gibson to display them
in the north, while Brother Howard S. Tracy handl~d the films in
the southern part. Both brethren displayed a marked aptitude for
this work, presenting the pictures in an attractive way and giving
brief talks which created considerable interest and enthusiasm.
· We received a number of letters from different brethren expressing their appreciation and pleasure in obtaining a clear and
well defined impression of just what is being accomplished in our
magnificent Masonic Homes. Many expressed surprise over the
fact that the elderly and the• orphans were being so well cared for,
having heretofore had no conception of the scope and breadth of
our work and of how splendidly we are equipped.
Extracts from a number of the letters read as follows:
"The pictures are surely fine, and they were appreciatively and gratefully received and warmly applauded. It
is quite conservative to say that nine out of every ten in
the audience last night left the hall with first-hand knowledge that was absolutely new to them. Such seeds so
sown are certain- to grow and to ultimately bear fruit, as
well as yield present and immediate returns financially."
"I am writing to express my sincere gratitude and
profound appreciation for the visit of Captain Tracy with
the pictures of the Homes at Decoto and Covina. I am
sure my Lodge and the community join me in the assurance
that they were superlatively edifying and instructive as
well as entertaining. They surely deserve all the support
the Fraternity can give them. I congratulate you, also,
upon the selection of such a capable and versatile brother
as Captain Tracy. His brief remarks accompanying the
pictures were peculiarly proper and comprehensive."
"The pictures that were shown of the Masonic Homes
at Decoto and Covina were very interesting and instructive,
and every one present was very enthusiastic. Very few·
of us had any idea that our aged brothers and sisters, and
our orphans were being so well cared for, nor had we any
conception that our Homes were so splendid, both as to
buildings and equipment. Much favorable comment was
made on Brother Gibson's fine talk on the homes anl pictures, and the spirit in which Brother Gibson and the
pictures were received will have a lasting effect."

621

Brother Howard S. Tracy, who exhibited the films in the
southern part of the State, submitted a report summarizing his
activities, as follows:
Lodges and Members Covered
Date
Feb. 15

Lodge
No. Membership Attendance
Sunset ..........................................352
540
Pentalpha .............................: ......202
604
125
125
" 22 Square & Compass....................
23 Garvanza ....................................492
25
Highland Park ..........................382
381
110
24 Mon eta ..................................;.....405
440
95
75
500
" 25 Elsinore ......................................289
Mar. 2 Southern California ................278
672
Valle de France ........................329
109
33
706
75
" 3 Golden State ...................,..........358
48
90
" 5 Fallbrook ....................................317
6 Oceanside ..................................381
52
40
279
100
" 8 Redlands ......................................300
9 Westgate ....................................335
543
Los Angeles .............................. 42
658
29
10 America ......................................492
25
130
27
350
" 11 Corcoran ....................................490
77
120
" 14 Fellows ........................................477
15 Tehachapi ....................................313
155
42
16 Taft ...................:............ ~..........:..426
150
Maricopa ......................................434
99
150
400
" 17 Bakersfield ..................................224
Libertas ......................................466
116
250
Caledonia ....................................486
31
18 Hanford ......................................279
188
35
433
" 19 Fresno ..........................................247
Las Palmas .............................,..366
432
300
Center ..........................................465
137
136
37
" 20 Delano .....................:..............,.....309
21 Madera ........................................280
126
85
23 Selma ..........................................'Zl7
200
Kingsburg ..................................294
91
42.
24 Porterville ..................................303
244
105
250
200
" 25 Tulare ............,.............................'UIJ
26 Visalia ..................................:....... 128
187
Exeter ..........................................424
98
116
27 San Diego .................................. 35
543
28 Mizpah ........................................378
503
250
586
" 29 Silver Gate ................:.................296
Blackmer ................................... .442
217

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

622

Date

30
Jl
April 1

"

5
6

7
8

"

"

9
10
12
14

15
16

April 17

"

19
20
23
25
26

" 27
28

~fay

"
"
"

4
5
6

7
9

No. Membership Attendance
Lodge
166
National City ............................283
79
La Mesa ......................................4-07
128
116
Coronado ....................................441
155
250
Veteran ........................................373
336
250
Elysian ........................................418
305
Glendale ..:...................................J68
65
Burbank .....................:................406
73
65
Eagle Rock ................................422
83
39
Coachella .................................~..472
72
71
Clarence F. Smith ......................482
400
Fullerton ....................................339
175
Anaheim ......................................'l.07
145
95
Buena Park ...............................,.357
3J8
San Pedro ..................................JJ2
295
85
Wilmington ................................198
250
Past Masters ........................................
458
59
University ..................................J94
191
116
Ventura ...................................~....214
75
Paso Robles ..............................286
16
San Miguel ................. ~ ..............285
121
78
Atascadero .........................:........493
140
170
Lompoc ......................................262
250
Santa Barbara ..........................192
140
44
Magnolia ......................................242
225
Santa Maria .........: ....................264
59
249
Guadalupe ..................................237
50
150
Cambria ............~.........................196
232
160
San Luis Obispo ......................209
155
190
Van Nuys ....................................450
San Fernando ............................34J
425
Santa Ana ..................................241
190
135
Orange ........................................293
220
Ocean Park ............................:..369
83
·165
Culver City ................................467
800
160
South Gate ................................320
101
Artesia ........................................377
7J
Norwalk .....................................315
75
84
Downey .:....................................220
170
Lone Pine .............................................
112
75
Independence ............................221
45
2'10
Big Pine .......................................413
91
150
Bishop· ..........................................287
372
San Bernardino ....,................... 178
JOO
Phoenix .....................................:348

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

623

Date
Lodge
No. Membership Attendance
May 9 Colton ............................................306
158
285
11 Long Beach ................................327
486
Palos Verdes ..............................J89
363
450
13 Lancaster ....................................4J7
100
110
25 Whittier ......................................323
252
360
" 26 Ontario ........................................301
178
Upland .........:................................419
90
325
27 Pomona ........................................246
367
Claremont ..................................436
81
San Dimas ..................................428
65
Chino ............................................427 .
51
.44
June 6 Pasadena ....................................272
448
Corona ...............:........................324
440
San Pasqual ....'.................c..........452
150
125
JOO ·
" 9 Monrovia ....................................J08
105
21,641

9,119

. Brother Whited's report, detailed by Brother Gibson, is as
follows:
Summary of pictures shown. in Northern California
from May 1st to August 3rd, inclusive
May 9 Films shipped to Livermore. No request for operator
or speaker.
11 Films shown at Pleasanton. No request for operator
or speaker.
" 12 Films shown at San Leandro. Approximately 125 memhers of the Fraternity and Eastern Star present.
" 18 Films shipped to Guerneville. No request for operator
or speaker.
" JO Pictures were shown· at Argonaut Lodge, San Fran~isco.
Approximately 80 memb~rs present.
June 4 Pictures shown at Point Arena. Attendance 75, members
of Fraternity and Eastern Star.
6 Pictures shown in theater at Mendocino City. Attendance, 125.
7 Fort Bragg. Attendance, 100.
" 9 Morgan Hill. Attendance, including guests, 375.
10 Hollister. Attendance, 50. (Request to see them later.)
" 11 San Juan. Attendance, 100.
" 16 Watsonville. Attendance, 125.
23 Ukiah. Attertdance, 275.
29 Lakeport. Attendance, 250.
July 6 Sisson. Attendance, J75.
" 16 Yreka. Films expressed; no report of attendance.

624
Aug.

3
19
20
26
30
" 31
Sept. 2
3
6
" 12
13
" 14
" 15
" 17

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Excelsior Lodge, San Francisco. Attendance, 63.
Marysville, Yuba City. Attendance, 125.
Oroville. Attendance 75.
Alta Vista, San Francisco. Attendance 56.
Nevada City. Attendance, 96.
Grass Valley. Attendance, 65.
Truckee. Attendance, 95.
Dutch Flat. Attendance, 48.
Colfax. No report; films only.
Tracey. Attendance, 106.
Manteca. Attendance, 215.
Los Banos. Attendance, 75.
Patters;on. Attendance 125.
Newman. Attendance, 65.

For· the past two years the Endowment Committee has recommended to the Grand Lodge that they definitely determine whether
or not it is advisable to raise an Endowment Fund, and if it be
advi!able, then an active, energetic drive or campaign be instituted
until the goal is reached.
The Endowment Fund has made a rather unsatisfacto~y showing during the past two years, and your Committee feels that unless
there is a spirit of co-operation and determination by the members
of the Grand Lodge to reach the goal outlined some years since,
and if the interest is only to be half-hearted, then it is a recommendation of the Committee that it should be made clear, by vote
of the Grand Lodge, that no further efforts be made.
While this same thought has been presented twice before, no
action ·has been taken and it is the unanimous request of your
Committee that Grand Lodge now definitely determine the plans
for the future.
MoTLEY H. FLINT, Chairman,
ALONZO J. MONROE, .
JoHN F. ELLISON,
CHAS. ALBERT RooT,
ANDREW
QUINN,
FRllD L. KINCAID,
WILLIAM H. WORD:i;N,

w.

c. H. WHllllUR,

Endowment Committee,

The report was adopted as read. And on motion of Past
Grand Master Hervey, Grand Lodge unanimously voted
that the Endowment Committee be continued and an active
endeavor be made and encouraged to raise an endowment
of one million dollars.

625

MEMORIAL SERVICES
A solemn service of song and eulogy was then had in
memory of our deceased brethren, John P. Jarman, Granville D. Warren and Edmund E. Knepper, the music being
furnished by Brothers Geno Severi, Wm. A. Prior, Gustave
Durschang, H . Wallace, George von Hagel, John· Schipilliti
and Chas. E. Anderson, all members of Jewel Lodge No.
374. Eulogies were delivered as follows:
John Plaskett Jarman

. Past Grand Master Keesling spoke as follows :
I believe it cannot be gainsaid that in addition to the symbols
and ritual of the Fraternity, every ceremonial requirement serves
its very important purpose or purposes. The direct purpose of
the fun~ral service is to offer up the last sad tribute of our affection. This we readily understand in the case of those with whom
we may be acquainted; .it perhaps bec;,mes more perfunctory so far
as that feature is concerned, but nevertheless still a Masonic duty,
in the cases of those who may be strangers-but the other purpose
is ever present. A memorial service similarly fulfills the require~
ments of this other purpose, and on this other purpose I will primarily dwell.
·
The potential thinkers are many. The voluntary thinkers are
few. The Masonic system instructs and inspires thought and
action. Why the potential thinkers are many and the voluntary
thinkers are few, may afford cause for speculation. It is a fact,
nevertheless, and causes concern as we consider the demands of
our particular form of government. Ours is the problem of
prompting thought. One would believe that there are sufficient
everyday warnings to produce the result, but practice demonstrates
that it is not so. Even the simplest duties remain unperformed.
Ordinarily, something terrific, something awesome, something spectacular, Something heroic, is required. You know what is necessary to awaken consciousness.
We place a stress on the funeral service. Some uninformed
people know only that the Masonic Fraternity insures a decent
burial. Indeed, the Fraternity carefully safe-guards that ·attention
to the strange brother. Aside from the fact that it is the charitable
thing to do, even in such a case there remains, the other purpose.
Men proceed to their studies for the purpose of uninterrupted
thought. They approach the sanctuary so that, undefiled by the
material activities about them, th~y may clearly perform their de-

626

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

votions. For the time occupied by the funeral service we are
removed from the material things of life, and, in the presence of
death, are prompted to give consideration to the spiritual, and we
search the innermost recesses as we take a mental inventory.
Circumstances impel us to visualize the rew~rd of a virtuous
and well spent life. The memorial service is not unlike.
Today, in this asylum, which for the time being has become
a sanctuary for the purpose of doing honor to those whom we are
privileged to honor, we naturally eliminate the worldly and enter
into that which is spiritual. The cere'mony of itself must produce
that result.
It is emphasized by the character of him whom we honor.
John Plaskett Jarman was born in England, January 27th, 1849,
and came to this country when he was seventeen years old. He
resided in California and in Santa Clara county since 1866. He
was initiated in San Jose Lodge No. 10, August 17th, 1885 ; passed
August 31st, and raised September 29th, 1885. He served as Senior
Deacon during the years 1886, 1887 and 1888, as Junior Watden in
1889, and as Master in 1890 a.n d 1891. He again served as Senior
Deacon in the years 1893, 1894 and 1898, and as Master in 1906.
He was Inspector of his district from 1910 to 1920. He was Grand
Bible Bearer of the Grand Lodge from 1914 to 1921, and at the
time of his death was serving in that capacity. In addition to this
Masonic service, which was well performed, he served, with great
honor to himself and the Fraternity, as a Trustee of t he public
schools of the c.ity of San Jose for many years. He died May 8,
1921.
In departing hence he left the other members of his family,
consisting of the splendid woman who was his life companion, a .
son, Albert H. Jarman, an honorable member of the legal profession of this city, two daughters, Kate Williams and Edith Jarman,
true to the type of the honorable man who was their father.
As I awakened to the responsibility of saying something of
my friend and brother worthy to be recorded, I was traveling the
same road taken by John Burroughs on ·his last journey, and as I
gazed forth on the fields and scenes ~o much belov ed by him I
recalled his last words, in effect: "How far am I from home?"
What a splendid index to the worth of the man ! Great as was his
achievement in the scientific world, even greater was he in the
appreciation of home. Animals and ignorant humans will fight for
their abiding place. But a profound understanding of the requisites
of protection of home and insuring the liberty and pursuit of happiness of those therein, free from attack, by proper discharge of
duty to family and society, is the virtue of a good and substantial
citizen. Our brother had that virtue. His conduct throughout

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

627

life constantly exemplified it. The love of his family, the respect
of his neighbor and that of his business associates, testify to it.
His service to the Fraternity, to the. community, to the unfortunate,
was marked by sacrifice generously bestowed.
"And the Voice that was soft er t han silence said,
'Lo, it is I, be not afraid !
In many climes without avail,
Thou hast spent thy life for t he Holy Grail;
Behold, it is here-this cup which thou
Didst fill at the stieamlet for me, full now;
Thjs crust is my body broken for thee,
This water His blood that died on the tree;
The Holy Supper is kept, indeed,
In whatso we share with another's need:
Not what we give, but what we shareFor the gift without the giver is bare;
Who gives himself with his alms feeds three,
Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me.' "-Lowell.

•

In my iife he stands as an inspiration for honorable conduct
His was of the unspoken influence, which c~mmanded my attentio~
to things Masonic.
He was truly a successful man.
"The talent of success is nothing more than doing
what you can do well, and doing well whatever you
do without a thought of fame. If it comes at a ll,
it will come because it is deserved, not because
it is squght after."-Longfellow.
What he did he did well ; he did it without a thought of fame
or rew~rd. Dollars and cents were not his objective. But he was
rewarded, and wha t a splendid thing it is to know that it was not
a reward reserved until he had gone to the great beyond. It was
evidenced by the respect and esteem, and love, of those· who knew
him. Nothing he did did he begrudge. Cheerfulness marked his
conduct. His advice was sought; it was cheerfully given; it was
good. He was soft of voice, sweet of temperament and firm in
righteousness. He was fearless in the cause, loyal in his friendship
ever considerate and unselfish. He was a God-fearing man.
'
And so his life must inspire desire to correct our errors fuller
appreciation of proper Fraternal int ercourse, and unselfish ; ervice.
Laws are necessary to govern conduct. No law was necessary to
prescribe his. ~ondu.ct. . With such character of citizenship, only
law! of admtn1stration would be necessary. This mild-mannered
man achieved real success.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

629

PROCEEDINGS 01'' THE

628

Granville Dexter Warren

Past Grand Master W ebstei- addressed Grand Lodge
as follows:
Gran~.ille Dexter Warren, Past Master of Brooklyn Lodge, lnsp~c­
tor of one of the large and important districts in this Grand Junsdiction for so many years that he came to be affectionately referred to
as the Dean of Masonic Inspectors in Alameda county: 1t is with a
pr<Jfound sense of personal p'rivilege that I undertake to. pay tribu~e
to the memory of this beloved brother, though I might wish that this
duty and privilege had been committed to the charge of one able more
eloquently than myself to portray his many virtues and express our
appreciation of his life and character.
One of the many and various services rendered to Masonry by
Brother Warren, the outstanding and distinctive one was as Inspector.
He and I assun:ed the work of Inspectors in Alameda county at the
same time, and at a time, too, when the work of inspection had not
been so thoroughly organized as it has since become under the management of our t>eloved Grand Lecturer ; so that it was necessary for
us to in a measure, pioneer the work of inspection at that early date;
~nd shall not forget the patience, courtesy, ability and tact with which
Brother Warren attacked the problems attending this work. To him,
his work as Inspector was not done when he guided his Lodges correctly through the ritualistic work and the conduct of their business,
but he had so large a human interest that he entered into the personal
problems of the members of the Lodges under his jurisdiction in many
cases. And it .was no uncommon thing for him to be consulted upon
the most intimate personal problen:s of his brethren. It was my privilege working with him in the adjoining district, to know many of such
inst;nces and one could not fail to be impressed with the ready
sympath; and intense brotherly feeling of Brother Warren in all these
ministrations; modest, unassuming, yet forceful and kindly, he went
about his daily duties with characteristic energy and efficiency. One
thing which I might say was almost a hobby of his, was the ce~enting
of closer fraternal relations between the Lodges of his district and
county. He had no use for mock protestations of fraternal ism; but
always, as he did himself, expected his brethren to practice what they
preached, and had very little patience with jealousy between Lodges.
No man whom I ever met could more justly be said to have attained
spiritual freedom; that freedom which has been defined somewhere in
Masonry as free.dom from prepossessions, prejudices and errors, or
that mental equipoise which neither priest nor potentate can disturb or
bend to his dictation.
·
'·

i

While Brother Warr en was no worshi-pper at the shrine of tradition, and did not consider himself bound to customs and observances
merely because of their age, on the other hand, he steered his course as
a man and a Mason far from the other extreme of dangerous radicalism; a well-balanced man and Mason. While we have ' been deprived
of his bodily presence, his spirit, his influence and his inspiration are
still with us to guide, to cheer, to inspire. And we know, and say with
profound appreciation, that the impress of that noble character has been
left ineffaceably for good upon the community in which he lived, and
the fraternity in which he labored so long and faithfully.
To Granville Dexter Warren, then, this tribute : the good man;
upright citizen; true Mason; master of the Light, and devoted friend.
......_~~·..;.; ;;-;q;q:- · 1:.w:r~
Edmund Elnathan Knepper

ezrr··x ~-~..:;:,;;;;;;:.;;~;q.:=-.~~~-:._

.Brother ~obert L. Wood of Lexington Lodge No. ·104,
delivered the following, prepared by Brother Frank A.
Nance, of Monrovia Lodge No. 308, who was unavoidably
absent:
On November 19th, 1920, at Monrovia, California, the spirit of our
beloved brother, Edmund Elnathan Knepper, passed on to its reward.
Always a leader and earnest worker in every organization with which
he was identified, his going was a great personal shock to his hundreds
of friends and associates in church, club, school and lodge. The death
· of no other citizen in many years has occasioned such general sorrow
in t~at c01_nmunity as did the loss of brother Knepper, and on the day
of his burial all the schools and business houses suspended their activities out of respect for his honored memory.
Born at Henry City, Illinois, on February 4th, 1871, of a family of
scholars, Brother Knepper early determined to follow educational
~ork, and after grad11ation from Stanford University he entered upon
his career as a teacher at Lewiston, Idaho. After a few years he
moved to San Rafael, California, and later to Monrovia where he
became City Superintendent of Schools, which. post he 'filled with
marke.d success until chosen to serve Los Angeles County as Assistant
s.upermtendent of Schools. In this important office his work was of the
h1g?est order. T~oroughly trained in school supervision, tactful,
patient and possessing rare judgment, his influence touched the lives .
of thousands and his conscientious labor set a record mark for efficiency in his department.
As a citizen, B'rother Knepper exert~d a wide influence in the moral

~ocial and political life of the community. He was identified with eve~
movement for the benefit of his fellows, and was never known to

630

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

neglect a civic duty that fell to his lot. His patriotism and devotion
to his country during a great war deserve special praise. Disqualified
for military service, to his great regret, he gave untiring assistance to
the various war work organizations and cut his personal expenditures
to a minimum that by this sacrifice he might give greater aid to assist
in financing the war.
'The home life of our beloved brother was beautiful. For rr.any
years he was the sole support of his family, to whom he · was the
incarnation of a!l that is good in man.
Ed. Knepper was a true gentleman. Wherever one could meet him
he would be received in a kindly, courteous manner that was at once
delightful and assur.ing. His manner inspired confidence and his
excellent judgment generously aided all who sought his counsel. His
personality and exemplary conduct had an excellent influence upon the
young men of the community, in whose welfare he took the deepest
interest.
Although his loss is keenly felt as an educator, as trustee of the
Presbyterian church, as a director of the Granite club and as a patriotic,
upstanding American citizen, his guiding hand is probably more sadly
missed in the affairs of the 62nd Masonic District of which he was
Inspector.
Brother Knepper was a member of the Masonic order for twenty
years. He was initiated a tr.ember of Nez Perce Lodge No. 10 of
Lewiston, J:daho, August 17, 1901, passed to the degree of Fellowcrait
one week later, and raised as a Master Mason on August 31st, having
taken the three degrees in two weeks, his. uncle, Grand Secretary of
the State of Idaho,· conferring the degrees. On November 10th, 1907,
Brother Knepper became a member of Monrovia Lodge No. 308 by
affiliation and served as Master of that Lodge during the year 1910.
As Master his rare good judgment and personal charm endeared him
to the craft, and his untiring assistance at . all times during his ten
years as Past Master made him invaluable to the officers and members
of Monrovia Lodge. He was a 32° member of the Scottish Rite Bodies
of the Los Angeles ConsistOTy and a member of Al Maliekah Temple
of the Shrine.
On account of his peculiar fitness and his loyal devotion to our
Institution he was appointed Inspector of the 62nd District about a
year before his death. During this brief period, by consistent and
conscientious effort, he brought up the work of the seven Lodges of
the district to a higher degree of proficiency than they had known for
several years. In this work his kindly personality and generous wisdom
won the love and respect of all the brethren with whom he came into
personal touch, and his influence still remains as an inspiration to all
who had the good fortune of being associated with him.

0

63i

~rother Knepper' attended the sessions of the Grand Lodge
c~o er, an? at that time contracted a cold from which he w

last
fH
as su
fermg on his return to his h
proceedings of the Grand
ome.
e ha_d prepared a report on the
h"s bed f
Lodge, and although having been confined to
I
.
or .several days, he came to stated meeting on November 1
to deliver
to his bed immediately after the

~is rep~rt, ret~rning

meeti~th

~~v:i: ~:t~s:s :g~:·s ~ 1:n~~hee~o;~ wGas. n;iaRde for the loyal dischar::
H

.

0

'

e

nm

eaper came he was ready

confideenc:1eodf as he hhad lived, h?norably, fearlessly and with the ful;
H"
one w ose work 1s well d
be dear to his brethre~ in Free Masonry. one.
is memory will ever

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
your co~mittee, charged with the duty of ascertainin the cost
of transportat10n for one person from the location of eachg L 0 d
.
the
State
to
the
place
of
meeting
of
the
Grand
L
d
d
ge
m
0
of
·
h
ge an return and
reportmg s~c ~ost of transportation as the sum due to the officers
or representatives m attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers, Past Grand Masters, Chairmen of Standing Committ
ford their necessary expenditure for
duty and rban . Lohdgfe,l rep?rt that they have carefully discharged that
'
su mit t e o lowmg statement:

!~~~e~~;sG

transportation~~ ::~

Grand Officers
Samuel E. B~rke, Deputy Grand Master, Los An el
Arthur S. Crites, Junior Grand Warden, Bakersfie~ es ............$
Chas. S. Chaprr.an, Grand Standard Bearer Fullerton ················
Rudolph Beck, Grand Sword Bearer Oxna~d
················
David Lininger, Grand Bible Bearer'. Auburn ::······························
Ott~ J. Mouron, Senior Grand Deacon Sonora··:· .. ························
Alvm P. Rog~rs, Senior Grand Stewa;d, Mount~l~··Vl .............. ..
Malcolm M~c~ntyre, Junior Grand Steward, Honolulu ~
Theo. J. Mtlhken, Grand Pur'suivant, Sacramento ...'. .....: ..... :::::

250.00
7.00

T ot~I .......... ;................ :................................................................. _.'.$

451.90

Past Grand Masters
WilliamS.T.Henderson,
Lucas, Santa
Maria ..........................................................$
Orrin
Stockton
George W. Hunter Eureka
..................................

29.15

H.....

y ....................

Dana R. Weller, L~s Angele;·--···························································

Alonzo J. Monroe, Eureka ........::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

46.50
31.00
48.45
41.35
9.85

15.10
2.65

6.60
39.30

46.50
39.30

632

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Benj. F. Beld,soe, Los Angeles .................•.:........................................
Albert G. Burnett, Sacramento .............•............................................
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Los Angeles ............•.....................................

46.50
7.00
46.50

Total ...............:...........................:........................................................$

200.85

Chairmen of Standing Committees
George L. Jones, Grievances, Nevada City..................................$
William P. Jeffries, Finance, Los Angeles ....................................
John H . McGehee, Pay of Members, San Jose ..........................
Irving ]. Mitchell, Masonic Education, Los Angeles ············

15.80
46.50
3.75
46.50

Total ......:.........................._..........................................................,.....$

112.55

Inspectors.
James T. Fraser, First District, Eureka.............:··························$
Gustav A. Hutaff, Fourth A District, Dunsmmr........................
Chas. S. Baldwin, Sixth District, Alturas ......................................
Thomas H. Brown, Seventh District, Orland .................................
Charles Garrison, Ninth District, Beckwith....................................
James 0. Moncur, Tenth D~str~ct, Quine~ ···:··································
E. Lewis Case, Eleventh District, Dowmev11le ............................
Thorr.as Ingram, Twelfth District, Grass Valley ........................
Hans P. Jansen, Thirteenth District, Lincoln ...:····························
Lewis B. Wilcoxon, Fifteenth District, Marysville ......................
Rufus B. Carlton, Twentieth District, Sacramento ....................
George M. Taverner, Twentieth A District, Elk Grove ............
H. Hayes Gable, Twenty-first Distric~, ~spatto ·······:j.................
George C. Rolleri, Twenty-second D1stnct, Placerv1 1e ............
Otto ]. Mouron, Twenty-fifth District, Sonora ........................
Jacob E. Hughes, Twenty-eighth District, Croc~ett... ...................
Eugene L. Dearborn, Twenty-ninth_ Di.strict, Fairfield ................
Joseph B. Mills, Thirty-third _A ?1stnct, San L~andro ............
Chas. G. Lambert, Fortieth District, Redwood City ....................
Theo. M. Wright, Forty-first District, San Jose ..........................
J ames Davis, Forty-second District, Hollist-er ............................
Chas. K. Tuttle, Forty-third District, Pacific Grove....................
Wm. W. Abbott, Forty-fourth District, Livingston ....................
George A. Clark, Forty-sixth District, Bishop ..............•.............
Harry S. Foster, Forty-seventh District, Fresno ......................
Henry E. Verble, Forty-eighth District, Fresno ........................
Francis W . Mixter, Forty-ninth District, Exeter ........................
Jabez R. Gist, Fifty-first District, E~st _Bakersfield_-········:··········
Walter D. Adriance, Fifty-second District, San Luis Obispo....
David J . Reese, Fifty-third District, Ventura ..............................
Chas. P. Lyndall, Fifty-fourth District, Los. Angeles ................

39.30
31.80
52.20
12.95
30.85
28.10
31.85
15.40
9.20
10.35
7.00 ·
9.20
7.90
12.70
15.10
2.35
3.90
1.15
2.10
3.75
7.10
9.85
8.95
63.45
22.55
22.55
26.70
31.00
25.90
40.55
46.50

----

----

633
46.50
46.50
46.50
46.50
46.50
46.50
47.55
49.25
47.95
49.10
51.05
76.85
57.45
57.65
46.50

Reginald W. Clapp, Fifty-fifth District, Los Angeles ................
Martin L. Griffith, Fifty-sixth District, Los An~eles................
Winfred J. Sanborn, Fifty-seventh District, Los Angeles........
Will H. Fischer, Fifty-eighth District, Los Angeles ................
R. B. La Fontaine, Fifty-ninth District, Los Angeles................
Sidney K. Lehman, Sixtieth District, Los Angeles ....................
Lemuel L. Test, Sixtieth A District, Pasadena ............................
Wm. A. Vandegrift, Sixty-first District, Pomona........................
Franklin D. Caldwell, Sixty-third District, Artesia ................
Eli B. Trago, Sixty-fifth District, Santa Ana ............................
Henry D. French, Sixty-eighth District, Riverside ....................
]. Stewart Ross, Sixty-ninth District, El Centro ........................
Arthur A. Mathewson, Seventieth District, Coronado ...........:
Fred'k F. Martin, Seventieth A District, San Diego ................
Karl L. Ratzer, Special District, Los Angeles ·..........................

Total ...:..............................................................................................$ 1,394.00
Recapitulation

~;~~~t~:~:~:s. ::::: :::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : :: : : : : : ~: ::: : : : : ::::::$ 9,700.50
451.90

Past Grand Masters ............................................................................
Chairmen of Standing Committees ..................................................
Inspectors ...............:···.............................................................................
Total

200.85
112.55
1394.60

··:···········-··········:············-·····································~················$ 11,980.40

We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That there be levied upon the constituent Lodges of
the S~ate of California for the current year, in addition to the dues
prescnbed by the Constitution, the sum of 15 cent"s for each member
borne upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports. Said
levy shall be for the payment of Representatives, Grand Officers, Past
Grand Masters, and Inspectors, and shall be paid at the same titr.e and
in the manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.

Report adopted as presented.

]No. H. McGtm:t,
HowARDD. KtRCHtVAL,
T. R. DINSMORli,
L. B. WILCOXON,
Committee.

Grand Lodge was called off until 2 o'clock this afternoon.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

63S

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

634

General
Home
Home
$20
Total.
Fund. Maintenance Building
H~me .
· Fund.
Fund. Contribution.

Afternoon Session
Thursday, October 13, 1921.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
It is with pleasure that your Committee on Returns has to
report that the returns and dues from the several Lodges for the
year ending July 31st, 1921, were, for the most part, presented very
promptly and most of them were correct. It is the returns that are
late in arriving, and those that are incorrect, that are annoying
to our Grand Secretary.
· It is the duty of a Master of a Lodge to see that the returns
and dues from his Lodge are forwarded promptly to the Grand
Secretary.
With the exception of Westwood Lodge, U. D. at Westwood,
·
and Benjamin Franklin Lodge, at Los Angeles, all the L9dges of
the Jurisdiction have sent in their returns and are included in the
Grand Secretary's report.
While the number of candidates raised to the sublime degree
of Master Mason (8,831) this year is not as large as last year, it
shows that the Lodges have been very active. F.rom personal
observation, and from reliable reports, it n;iay be stated that the
standard of candidates initiated was very high and the Fraternity
is to be congratulated on the material that has been taken into
iliefo~
.
The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges ' of the
jurisdiction were indebted for the year ending July 31, 1921, and which
have all been paid, are as follows:
General
Home
Home
J20
Fund. MaW~~'J.~nce B~~~id.g Contrlb:tion. Total.

California ................
Western Star ..........
Tehama ....................
Benicia ......................
Tuolumne ................
Corinthian ..............

1
2
3
S
8
9

$781.90
90.50
407.S5
220.90
194.7S
331.6S

$231.70
31.50
llS.15
56.70
S7.75
93.45

$331.00 $1,200.00 $2,S44.60
45.00
40.00
207.00
164.50
740.00 1,427.20
81.00
480.00
838.60
82.SO
280.00
615.00
133.50
S80.00 1,138.60

San Jose .................... 10
Yount ...................... 12
Nevacj.a .................._ 13
Temple ...................... 14
Eureka ...................... 15
Parfaite Union ...... 17
Mountain Shade .... 18
San Joaquin ............ 19
Washington ............ ZO
Hawaiian ....,............. 21
Occidental ................ 22
Madison .................... 23
Mariposa .................. 24
Georgetown ............ 25
Palmyra .................... 26
Trinity ...................... 27
Golden Gate ............ 30
Gold Hill ................ 32
Ophir ··------············- 33
San Diego ................ 35
St. John's ................ 37
Santa Cruz .............. 38
Sacramento ............ 40
Martinez .................. 41
Los Angeles ............ 42
Hiram ........................ 43
Mount Moriah ........ 44
Crescent _................ _ 45
Texas ........................ 46
Forbestown ............ SO
Illinoistown ............ Sl
Suisun ...................... SS
Volcano .................... S6
Santa Rosa .............. S7
Union ........................ S8
Gravel Range ........ S9
Plumas ...................... 60
Live Oak .................. 61
Natoma .................... 64
Amador .................... 6S
Forest ........................ 66
Morning Star .......... 68
Enterprise ................ 70

SSS.70
238.3S
158.25
146.9S
209.90
207.40
3S.50
639;00
391.60
404.SO
1,051.60
140.70
70.0S
64.3S
199.6S
79.45
917.SS
86.35
58.55
736.7S
132.70
309.7S
S38.65
173.30
865.85
26.6S
S76.90
89.10
71.7S
40.3S
81.lS
1S3.0S
32.50
402.9S
543.7S
28.6S
7S.35
1,188.30
125.05
70.45
S2.60
435.00
208.10

170.10
74.55
47.2S
42.35
63.70
67.20
io.5o
182.00
107.80
133.70
27 5.80
44.10
20.65
18.55
65.4S
24.85
248.15
25.SS
17.lS
197.7S
44.10
92.75
135.45
46.90
239.05
9.4S
168.70
27.30
lS.75
11.SS
26.9S
41.6S
10.50
lOS.35
141.7S
9.45
2S.S5
340.90
34.6S
24.85
16.80
140.00
62.30

243.00
106.SO
67.SO
60.50
91.00
96.00
1s.oo
260.00
154.00
191.00
394.00
63.00
29.50
26.50
93.50
3S.SO
3S4.SO
36.SO
24.50
282.50
63.00
132.50
193.50
67.00
341.50
13.50
241.00
39.00
22.50
16.50
38.50
S9.50
15.00
150.50
202.50
13.SO
36.50
487.00
49.50
35.50
24.00
200.00
89.00

660.00
260.00
200.00
220.00
280.00
100.00
60.oo
1,000.00
820.00
880.00
3,000.00
140.00
60.00
100.00
140.00
80.00
1,680.00
120.00
100.00
1,600.00
80.00
440.00
1,060.00
300.00
1,740.00
720.00
100.00
220.00
' 60.00
60.00
260.00
820.00
1,120.00

1,628.80
679.40
473.00
469.80
644.60
470.60
121.00
2,081.00
1,473.40
1,609.20
3,821.40
387.80
180.20
209.40
498.60
219.80
3,200.20
268.40
200.20
2,817.00
319.80
975.00
1,927.60
687.20
3,186.40
49.60
1,706.60
2SS.40
. 330.00
128.40
206.60
514.20
58.00
1,478.80
2,008:00

5.i.PO

177.40
40.00
1,560.00 3,S76.W
489.20
280.00
170.80
40.00
60.00
1S3.40
300.00 1,075.00
320.00
679.40

636

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
~ome
IJ;o~e
$20
Total.
Fund Mamtenance Bu1ldmg
Home
Fund.
Fund. Contribution.
·

Bear Mountain ........ 76
Calaveras --~··············· 78
Humboldt ················ 79
lone .......:... ·-·············· 80
Yolo ·························· 81
Vesper ······················ 84
'.Na val ························ 87
Rose's Bar ·············· 89
North Star .............. 91
St. Helena ........ ~---···· 93
Henry Clay .............. 9S
Howard ···················· 96
Jefferson ·················· 97
Hornitos .................... 98
Yosemite ·················· 99
Clay ....................•.....101
Oroville .................... 103
Lexington ................ 104
Arcata ...................•.... 106
Pajaro ...................... 110
Chico ..............,.........111
Summit ....................112
Eden ..........................113
Concord ...............•....117
Clinton ......................119
Fidelity .................... 120
Alamo ......................122
Sotoyome ................ 123
Table Mountain .... 124
La Fayette ............. .126
Hermann .................. 127
Visalia .,....................128
Nicolaus ....................129
Woodbridge •...........131
Sincerity .................. 132
Vacaville .................,134.
Valley ....................... .13S
Pacific ....................... .136
Crockett .................. 139
Curtis ........................ 140
Grafton ................... .141
franklin ... ;.............. 143

30.80
97.60
39.90
117.30
140.00
S28.00
19.60
67.20
19.ZS
62.2S
SS.30
170.10
197.0S
679.8S
lS.40
49.80
lS.40
44.80
34.6S
12S.OS
18.SS
S3.3S
32.SS
101.3S
10.lS
27.SS
16.10
S6.70
S8.4S
211.6S
20.6S
67.0S
8S.40
288.80
37.4S
11S.6S
S6.00
179.00
S8.45
229.6S
101.8S
364.4S
38.0S .
13.6S
S3.90
181.30
S7.40
212.80
17.lS
SS.SS
226.10
778.70
117.6S .
37.4S
81.20
248.40
21.3S
79.9S
SS.30
176.10
74.20
2S0.40
74.20
281.40
28.3S
88.9S
3S.3S
ll S.9S
38.lS
140.SS
49.70
1S6.90
18.90
60.30
262.SO
821.50
21S.9S
7S9.IS
18.SS
S6.3S
17.SO
63.SO
29.7S
l 10.7S

272.40
100.00
44.00
314.20
100.00
S7.00
200.00 1,080.00 1,948.00
214.80
100.00
28.00
149.00
40.00
27.SO
484.40
180.00
79.00
920.00 2,078.40
281.50
167.20
80.00
22.00
122.20
40.00
22.00
449.20
240.00
49.SO
118.40
20.00
26.SO
240.40
60.00
46.SO
S2.20
14.SO
195.80
100.00
23.00
713.60
360.00
83.SO
197.20
80.00
29.SO
896.20
400.00
122.00
286.60
80.00
S3.SO
280.00 . S9S.OO
80.00
871.60
S00.00
83.SO
S80.00 1,191.80
14S.SO
91.20
20.00
19.SO
SS2.20
240.00
77.00
732.20
380.00
82.00
157.20
60.00
24.SO
323.00 1,060.00 2,387.80
328.60
120.00
S3.SO
68S.60
240.00
116.00
311.80
180.00
30.SO
490.40
180.00
79.00
776.60
340.00
106.00
961.60
S00.00
106.00
120.00 . 277.80
40.SO
so.so 100.00 301.80
SS3.20
320.00
S4.SO
397.60
120.00
71.00
186.20
80.00
27.00
740.00 2,199.00
37S.OO
308.SO 1,180.00 2,463.60
141.40
40.00
26.SO
206.00
100.00
2S.OO
383.00
200.00
42.50

637

$20
General
Home
Home
Total.
Fund. Maintenance Building
Home
Fund.
Fund. Contribution.

Oriental .................... 144
Vitruvius .................. 145
Abell .......................... 146
Eel River ................ 147
Lassen ...................... 149
Molino .....•................150
Woodland ................ 156
Keystone .................. 161
Harmony .................. 164
Excelsior ..................166
Alameda .....•............ 167
Redwood City ........ 168
Mission .................... 169
Elk Grove ............... .173
Drytown .................... 174
Antioch ....................175
Phoenix .................... 178
Mendocino .............. 179
Petaluma ................. .180
Russian River ....... .181
Arbuckle .................. 182
Clear Lake ............. .183
Sierra Valley .......... 184
Claiborne ................ 185
Evening Star .......... 186
Keith .......................... 187
Oakland .................... 188
Northern Light ...... 190
Marin ........................ 191
Santa Barbara ........ 192
Ferndale .................. 193
Mountain View ...... 194
Buckeye .................. 195
San Simeon ............ 196
Wilmington .............. 198
Hartley ....................199
Truckee ................... .200 .
Sil veyville ............... .201
Pentalpha ............... .202
Confidence ............... .203
Salinas ..................... .204
Olivet ..... ~ ..................205

Sl4.4S
80.60
162.20
149.20
16S.2S
133.20
203.80
28.SO
11.40
62S.S5
147.7S
213.3S
1,013.00
88.20
33.6S
177.4S
464.60
1S7.70
3S3.1S
143.SO
90.40
30.60
32.3S
74.00
43.15
197.90
l,010.6S
101.10
385.80
319.90
130.30
171.3S
101.6S
83.4S
1S3.80
170.SO
131.lS
94.60
834.7S
31.60
260.00
142.8S

1S0.8S
23.80
47.60
47.60
47.25
33.60
64.40
10.SO
4.20
192.1 S
43.7S
67.SS
329.00
26.60
9.4S
S2.8S
13S.80
Sl.10
96.9S
38.SO
2S.20
9.80
11.SS
19.00
12.9S
S6.70
289.4S
27.30
113.40
91.70
39.90
53.SS
30.4S
17.8S
36.40
45.SO
40.9S
30.80
22S.7S
9.80
70.00
43.0S

21S.SO
34.00
68.00
68.00
67.SO
48.00
92.00
lS.00
6.00
274.SO
62.SO
96.SO
470.00
38.00
13.50
7S.SO
194.00
73.00
138.SO
SS.00
36.00
14.00
16.SO
30.00
18.SO
81.00
413.SO
39.00
162.00
131.00
57.00
76.SO
43.SO
2S.SO
S2.00
6S.OO
S8.SO
44.00
322.SO
14.00
100.00
61.50

780.00
120.00
280.00
100.00
320.00
300.00
260.00

S20.00
220.00
220.00
740.00
140.00
60.00
220.00
740.00
140.00
S80.00
280.00
120.00
20.00
100.00
40.00
360.00
1,860.00
260.00
680.00
S80.00
140.00
260.00
; 100.00
220.00
400.00
380.00
140.00
80.00
1,480.00
20.00
480.00
100.00

1,660.80
258.40
SS7.80
364.80
600.00
Sl4.80
620.20 .
S4.00
21.60
1,612.20
474.00
S97.40
2,S72.00
292.80
116.60
S25.80
1,S34.40
421.80
1,168.60
S17.00
271.60
74.40
60.40
223.00
114.60
695.60
3,S73.60
427.40
1,361.20
1,122.60
367.20
. S61.40
27S.60
346.80
640.20
661.00 .
370.60
I 249.40
3,863.00
7S.40
910.00
347.40

638

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Home
$20
H ome
Total.
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund .
Fund.
Contribution.
Fund.

Stanislaus ................206
Anaheim ..................207
Rio Vista ·-····-···-···-·208
King David's ..........209
Friendship ............. .210
San Benito .............. 211
S. San Francisco ....212
s. Buenaventura ... .214
Oak Grove .............215
Doric ..........................216
Monterey .................217
Mosaic ......................218
Speranza Ital. ........219
Downey ....................220
Inyo .......................... 221
Roseville ..................222
Bakersfield .. :....., .... .224
Brooklyn ~ .................225
San Mateo ................226
Athens ...................... 228
Solano ...................... 229
North Butte ............230
Cove lo .. :...................231
Janesville ..................232
Calistoga ..................233
Hope ..........................234
Surprise Valley ......235
Hill's Ferry ........... .236
Guadalupe ............... .237
Colusa ......................240
Santa Ana ................241
Magnolia .................. 242
Alcatraz ..................244
Laurel ....................... .245
Pomona .................... 246
Fresno ...................... 247
Alturas ......................248
Adin .......................... 250
Landmark ................253
Reading ................... .254
Welcome ..................255
Lodi .......................... 256
Penrhyn ..................258

.

860.00 1,454.40
129.00
90.30
375.10
906.40
440.00
111.50
78.05
276.85
283.00
140.00
35.00
24.50
83.50
540.00 1,031.00
117.50
82.25
291.25
540.00 1,169.60
153.50
107.45
368.65
552.80
320.00
58.00
40.60
134.20
520.00 1,072.00
130.00
91 .00
331.00
917.40
480.00
104.00
72.80
260.60
265.00 1,060.00 2,169.50
185.00
659.50
960.00 2,140.20
292.00
204.40
683 .80
539.40
280.00
61 .50
43.05
154.85
325.20
120.00
52.00
36.40
116.80
620.00 1,266.20
149.50
104.65
392.05
477.00
260.00
52.50
36.75
127.75
378.40
200.00
36.50
25.55
96.35
620.00 1,084.40
109.00
76.30
279.10
200.00 1,000.00 1.850.00
140.00
·510.00
278.00 1,020.00 2,170.80
194.60
678.20
360.00 . 760.60
93.50
65.45
241.65
326.40
140.00
46.50
32.55
107.35
820.00 1,723.20
217.00
151.90
534.30
251.00
60.00
50.00
35.00
106.00
116.20
40.00
19.50
13.65
43.05
139.6()
40.00
26.00
18.20
55 .40
210.20
40.00
44.50
31.15
94.55
321.60
160.00
38.50
26.95
96.15
144.80
20.00
33.00
23.10
68.70
257.60
100.00
38.50
26.95
92.15
152.00
40.00
30.00
21.00
61.00
659.80
360.00
65.50
45.85
188.45
920.00 1,808.20
214.50
150.15
523.55
769.40
400.00
84.00
58.80
226.60
780.00 -1,894.00
275.00
192.50
646.50
815.60
440.00
86.00
60.20
229.40
540.00 1,239.80
173.00
121 .10
405.70
940.00 1,922.20
234.50
164.15
583.55
297.80
120.00
45.50
31.85
100.45
144.40
60.00
. 21.50
15.05
47.85
253.60
120.00
33.50
23.45
76.65
510.80
220.00
73.00
51.10
166.70
565.80
340.00
so.so
35.35
139.95
727.00
280.00
112.50
78.75
255.75
396.40
200.00
46.50
. 32.55
117.35

- I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

639

Home
Home
$20
General
Home
Total.
Fund. Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund. Contribution.

Evergreen ................259
King Solomon's ..... .260
Tuscan ..................... .261
Lompoc ........ :...........262
Hesperian ................264
Orland ......................265
North East ........... ,266
Galt ..........................267
Durant ..................... .268
Olive Branch ......... .269
Snow Mountain ....271
Pasadena ..................272
Anchor ......................27 3
Arroyo ......................274
Oakdale ....................275
Selma ........................277
Southern Calif... ...... 278
Hanford ....................279
Madera ....................280
Mount Shasta ..... :..281
Callayomi ................282
South West ............283
San Miguel ............. 285
Paso Robles ............286
Winnedumah .......... 287
Maxwell ....................288
Elsinore .................... 289
East Gate ...............~290
Santa Paula ............29,1
Los Gatos ................292
Orange Grove ........293
Traver ......................294
Mt. Jackson ........... .295
Silver Gate .............. 296
Dunsmuir .................297
Liberty ......................299
Redlands .................. 300
Ontario ...................... 301
Santa Lucia ............302
Porterville ................ 303
Reedley ....................304
Azusa ........................ 3\l5

457.30
1,046.60
79.60
151.10
258.85
148.30
57.50
68.15
876.65
229.55
52.90
587.30
96.75
71.65
111.30
238.05
756.75
208.55
144.35
61.90
46.95
177.70
94.70
87.15
175.30
109.90
78.25
996.45
276.20
173.40
195.35
144.85
153.60
701.25
217 .55
250.50
338.55
198.05
97.00
292.45
111.40
116.85

130.90
275.80
23.80
48.30
78.05
39.90
17.50
19.95
226.45
66.15
14.70
179.90
29.75
23.45
32.90
69.65
239.75
66.15
46.55
21.70
14.35
58.10
30.10
26.95
53.90
28.70
26.25
311.85
75.60
53.20
60.55
36.05
44.80
208.25
52.15
73.50
101.15
62.65
28.00
88.05
32.20
36.05

187.00
880.00
394.00 2,060.00
80.00
34.00
140.00
69.00
111.50
360.00
57.00
360.00
25.00
100.00
120.00
28.50
323.50 1,800.00
94.50
380.00
21.00
80.00
860.00
257.00
42.50
120.00
33.50
60.00
160.00
47.00
99.50
340.00
342.50
800.00
220.00
94.50
160.00
66.50
31.00
20.00
80.00
20.50
83.00
180.00
80.00
43.00
140.00
38.50
77.00
260.00
260.00
41.00
40.00
37.50
900.00
445.50
440.00
108.00
220.00
76.00
86.50
260.00
51.50
300.00
200.00
64.00
297.50 1,100.00
174.50
560.00
105.00
360.00
440.00
144.50
89.50
240.00
100.00
40.00
440.00
125.50
46.00
120.00
140.00
51.50

1,655.20
3,776.40
217.40
408.40
808.40
605.20
200.00
236.60
3,226.60

770.20
168.60
1,884.20
289.00
188.60
351.20
747.20
2,139.00
589.20
417.40
134.60
161.80
498.80
247.80
292.60
566.20
439.60
182.00
2,653.80
899.80 .
522.60
602.40
532.40
462.40
2,307.00
904.20
789.00
1,024.20
590.20
265.00
946.00
309.60
344.40

640

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
General
Fund.

Ashlar ......................306
Santa Monica ......:.307
Monrovia ................308
Delano ......................309
Sisson ........................310
Los Banos ................312
Tehachapi ...............~313
Temescal ..................314
Norwalk .................,315
Sanger ··-····················316
Fallbrook ................317
Emmanuel ................318
Hollenbeck ..............319
South Gate ..............320
Alisal ........................321
Alhambra ................322
Whittier .....:............323
Corona ......................324
Consuelo ...............:..325
Needles ....................326
Long Beach ............327
Redondo ..................328
• Vallee de France....329
Kilauea ;....................330
Pacific Grove .......... 331
San Pedro ................332
Alta •.........................333
Covina ............•...........334
West Gate ................335
Fruitvale ..................336
Carquinez ................337
San Jacinto ............338
Fullerton ..................339
, Qxnard ...;..................341
·San -Fernando ........343
Starr King ..............344
Brentwood ...,............345
Palo Alto ................346
McKinley ................,347
Sa·n .Bernardino ...:.•348
.Sequoia ·'·'-~'-~-~........:..349
Palestine :...:::...........351

~ome

IJ;on;ie

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
J.20

MaF~~d~nce B~,~~'J'.g Cont~b~tion. Tota).
189.75
57.75
82.50
220.00
550.00
242.20
68.60
98.00
420.00
828.80
175.75
50.75
72.50
300.00
599.00 .
158.80
50.40
72.00
160.00
441.20
137.10
34.30
49.00
340.00
560.40
99.20
26.60
38.00
120.00
283.80
168.30
53.90
77.00
140.00
439.20
130.00
42.00
60.00
140.00
372.00
102.80
29.40
42.00
160.00
334.20
112.85
16.05
51.50
120.00
300.40
51.65
16.45
23.50
20.00
111.60
88.70 .
23.10
33.00
140.00
284.80
1,539.60
450.40
644.00 2,040.00 4,674.00
844.90
273.70
391.00
660.00 2,289.60
132.15
33.95
48.50
260.00
474.60
434.60
114.80
164.00
980.00 1,693.40
361.20
96.60
138.00
680.00 . 1,275.80
487.40
158.20
226.00
580.00 1,451.60
167.40
46.20
66.00
300.00
579.60
249.70
65.10
93.00
520.00
927.80
706.80
183.40
262.00 1,740.00 2,892.20
258.75
71.75
102.50
420.00
853.00
119.35
39.55
56.50
80.00
295.40
166.75
66.15
94.50
180.00
507.40
109.95 .
28.35
40.50
200.00
378.80
489.65
128.45
183.50
940.00 1,741.60
23.75
8.75
12.50
45.00
211.50
66.50
95.00
260.00
633.00
744.95
203.35
290.50 1,280.00 2,518.80
754.30
200.90
287.00 1,520.00 2,762.20
168.50 . 45.50
65.00
240.00
519.00
185.75
50.75
72.50
300.00
609.00
506.60
128.80
184.00 1.340.00 2,159.40
297.00
84.00
120.00
280.00
781.00
144.25
40.25
57.50
220.00
462.00
648.40
158.20
226.00 1,380.00 2,412.60
118.50
38.50
55.00
80.00
292.00
406.95
112.35
'160.Sp
840.00 1,519.80
345 ..55
. 94.15
134.50
520.00 1,094.20
426.25
124.25
177.50
660.00 1,388.00
1,047..15
292.95
418.50 1,680.00 3,438.QO
536.70
149.10
213.00 1,540.00 2,438.80

641

General
Home
H ome
$20
H'.ome
Total.
Fund. Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund. Contribution.

Sunset .........:...........,..352
723.15
199.15
284.50 1,440.00 2,646.80
Pinole ........................353
129.05
41.30
59.50
120.00
349.85
Presidio ....................354
681.90
168.70
241.00 1,660.00 2,751.60
Hollywood •.............355
893.50
241.50
345.00 2,020.00 3,500.00
384.80
Mill Valley ·········-···356
106.40
152.00
680.00 1,323.20
Buena Park ............357
l51.25
40.25
57.50
280.00
529.00
Golden State ..........358
966.05
265.65
379.50 1,560.00 3,171.20
Loyalton ..................359
42.40
11.20
16.00
80.00
149.60
San Francisco ......-360
465.10
125.30
179.00
920.00 1,689.40
Fort Bragg ..............361
94.90
28.70
41.00
120.00
284.60
Charity ......................362
123.55
38.15
54.50
140.00
356.20
Berkeley ....................363 • 663.00
189.00
270.00 1,180.00 2,302.00
Willits .....................:365
149.20
40.60
58.00
300.00
547.80
Las Palmas ............366
565.05
160.65
229.50
900.00 1,855.20
South Pasadena ....367
295.55
80.15
114.50
580.00 1,070.20
Unity ........................368
448.20
117.60
168.00 1,060.00 1,793.80
Ocean Park ..............369
362.05
90.65
129.50
780.00 2,002.20
Amity ........................370
570.90
161.70
231.00
900.00 1,863.60
Le Progres de
L'Oceanie ........371
88.55 . 126.50 1,060.00 1,598.80
323.75
Gardena ....................372
116.00
35.00
50.00
160.00
361.00
·Veteran ....................373
271.45
73.85
105.50
460.oo 910.80
J ewel ..........................374
178.35
46.55
66.50
440.00
731.40
Richmond .............~ ..375
718.75
190.75
272.50 1,680.00 2,862.00
Francis Drake ........376
163.00
42.00
60.00
380.00
645.00
Artesia ......................377
127.75
36.75
52.50
180.00
397.00
Mizpah ......................378
605.25
180.25
257.50
800.00 1,843.00
Fillmore ..................379
193.35
53.55
76.50
320.00
643.40
Huntington Beach 380
83.40
25.20
36.00
200.00
344.60
Oceanside ................381
59.35
18.55
26.50
60.00
164.40
Highland Park........382
477.05
139.65
199.50
500.00 1,316.20
Orosi ........................383
112.40
32.ZG
46.00
140.00
330.60
El Centro ..................384
270.80
71.40
102.00
460.00
904.20
Dinuba ......................385
179.45
59.85
85.50
140.00
464.80
Coalinga ....................387
359.35
88.55
126.50
840.00 1,414.40
Parnassus ................388
589.90
161.70
231.00 1,120.00 2,102.60
Palos Verdes ........389
509.65
135.45
193.50 1,100.00 1,938.60
Imperial ..................390
. 31.50
123.50
45.00
260.00
460.00
East Belt ..................391
65.95
21.35
30.50
60.00
177.80
West Lake ..............392 1,114.35
305.55
436.50 2,140.00 3,996.40
Balder .....................~ ..393
566.50
150.50
215.00 1,120.00 2,052.00
University ................394
656.80
176.40
252.00 1,420.00 2,505.20

642

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
General
Fund.

Turlock ··········-······-395
Apollo ··--·-·-·········-396
Rising Light ..........397
Fraternity ................399
Burlingame ............400
· Bay View ..................41>1
Brawley ....................41>2
Yerba Buena ..........403
Glendora ..................404
Moneta ......................405
Burbank ..................406
La Mesa ..................407
Sierra Madre ..........408
Honolulu ..................409
Charter Rock ..........410
Perris ........................411
Calexico ....................412
Waucoba ..................413
Arlington ................414
Silver Trowel ........415
Lindsay ....................416
Clovis ......................417
Elysian ......................418
Upland ......................419
Kerman ....................420
Inglewood ................421
Eagle Rock ............422
York ·-······················.423
Exeter ......................424
Holtville ..................425
Midway ....................426
Chino Valley ..........427
San Dimas ................428
Pittsburg ..................429
McCloud ..................430
Alpha ........................431
;:· Hammonton ............433
Maricopa ..................434
Fairmount ................435
Claremont ................436
Lancaster ..................437
Acacia ......................438
Tyrian ......................439
Standard ....,..,..........440

;Home

~o~e

J.20

1

General
Home
H~me
$20
Total.
Fund Maintenance Building
H'.ome
·
Fund.
Fund. Contribution.

Total.

Ma13~~d.nce BF~~d.g Cont~b:tion.
876.40
202.10
55.30
79.00
540.00
341.45
94.85
135.50
680.00 1,251.80
350.40
88.20
126.00
880.00 1,444.60
382.80
99.40
142.00
660.00 1,284.20
365.00
98.00
140.00
780.00 1,383.00
400.80
113.40
162.00
740.00 1,416.20
564.40
148.35
39.55
56.50
320.00
465.55
122.15
174.50
960.00 1,722.20
319.40
39.00
160.00
93.10
27.30
616.25
166.25
237.50 ' 1,120.00 2,140.00
468.60
137.65
37.45
53.50
240.00
296.60
91.15
26.95
38.50
140.00
159.20
76.30
25.90
37.00
20.00
817.20
231.50
84.70
121!00
380.00
666.00
182.00
260.00 1,140.00 2,248.00
288.00
100.00
28.00
40.00
120.00
560.80
169.45
45.85
65.50
280.00
228.60
52.90
14.70
21.00
140.00
297.00
71.00
110.00
660.00 1,144.00
292.40
81.20
116.00
640.00 1,129.60
442.35
121.25
33.60
47.50
240.00
911.60
180.65
37.45
$3.50
640.00
488.65
128.45
183.50 1,040.00 1,840.60
319.80
102.45
31.85
45.50
140.00
366.80
90.70
23.10
33.00
220.00
760.00
208.25
54.25
77.50
420.00
458.20
111 .05
27.65
39.50
280.00
576.40
148.85
36.05
51.50
340.00
378.60
127.65
37.45
53.50
160.00
265.00
92.75
29.75
42.50
100.00
420.50
101.50
145.00
860.00 1,527.00
193.00
66.25
19.25
27.50
80.00
24.15
34.50
120.00 .261.20 .
• 82.55
446.60
116.90
28.70
41.00
260.00
281.60
84.65
23.45
33.50
140.00
429.90
126.70
181.00
480.00 1,217.60 .
245.80
73.95
21.35
30.50
120.00
218.15
47.95
68.50
700.00 1,034.60
631.30
179.90
257.00 1,020.00 2,088.20
220.80
91.95
28.35
40.50
60.00
408.60
137.65
37.45
53.50
180.00
347.80
98.95
28.35
40.50 . 180.00
505.00
128.50
31.50
45.00
300.00
318.40
81.20
116.00
700.00 1,215.60

643

Coronado ................441
Blackmer ·····-··········.442
Schofield ..................443
Carpinteria .......... _..444
Wilshire ................:...445
La Puente .............. _446
Torrance ......-:.........447
Mt. Diablo ................448
Park ···········-············.449
Van N uys ..............-450
Montebello ..............451
San Pasqual ............452
Bethlehem ·................453
Crocker ....................454
Golden West ..........455
Kennett ....................456
Ramona ....................457
Henry S. Orme ......458
Riverbank ................459
Mount Oso ..........- ..460
Argonaut ..................461
Paul Revere ............462
Morgan Hill ............463
Alta Vista ............-464
Center ··-··················465
Libertas ....................466
Culver City ............467
Rockridge ................468
Yorba Linda ..........469
Lincoln ....................470
Delta ..........................471
Maui ....................,.....-472
Blythe ......................-473
Victory ......................474
America ....................49'5
Coachella ..................416
Temblor ..................477
Thousand Oaks ......478
Golden Rule ............479
Fellowship ................480
Mt. Davidson ........481
C. F. Smith ..............482
Bell ............................483
Albert Pike ..............484

174.10
356.85
187.00
48.85
529.35
86.60
148.00
123.35
539.85
154.15
151.65
222.80
398.70
227.50
693.90
65.30
157.40
614.20
81.65
170.85
314.50
655.80
49.15
296.80
300.30
226.10
163.40
319.05
126.25
288.60
269.7 5
111.50
78.15
315.95
253.30
88.60
220.25
177.10
115.85
134.75
140.65
113.55
84.60
142.60

48.30
85.05
47.60
15.05
137.55
23.80
35.00
32.55
134.05
40.95
37.45
57.40
100.10
45.50
147.70
18.90
39.ZO
145.60
23.45
43.05
73.50
169.40
12.95
64.40
60.90
48.30
32.20
69.65
26.25
58.80
64.7 5
38.50
19.95
49.35
46.90
16.80
40.25
34.30
22.05
22.75
30.45
24.15
16.80
23.80

69.00
121.50
68.00
21.50
196.50
34.00
50.00
46.50
191.50
58.50
53.50
82.00
143.00
65.00
211.00
27.00
56.00
208.00
33.50
61.50
105.00
242.00
18.50
92.00
87.00
69.00
46.00
99.50
37.50
84.00
92.50
55.00
28.50
70.50
67.00
24.00
57.50
49.00
31.50
32.50
43:50
34.50
24.00
. 34.00

240.00
980.00
600.00
40.00
1,040.00
160.00
440.00
200.00
1,160.00
280.00
320.00
360.00
1,020.00
820.00
2,000.00
100.00
420.00
1,560.00
140.00
380.00
880.00
1,400.00
140.00
820.00
700.00
640.00
560.00
980.00
400.00
860.00
660.00
200.00
160.00
1,100.00
1,040.00
360.00
660.00
860.00
460.00
580.00
460.00
380.00
320.00
660.00

513.40
1,543.40
902.60
125.4!J
1,903.40
304.40
673.00
402.40
2,025.40
533.60
562.60
722.20
1,661.80
1,158.00
3,052.60
211.20
672.60
2,527.80
278.60
655.40
1,373.00
2,467.20
220.60
1,273.20
1,148.20
983.40
841.60
1,468.20
590.00
1,291.40
1,087.00
405.00
286.60
1,535.80
1,407.20
489.40
978.00
1,120.40
629.40
770.00
674.60
552.20
445.40
860.40

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

644

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Home
Home
t20
General Maintenance Building
Home
F1md.
Fund.
Fund. Contribution.

Chowchilla ..............485
Caledonia ..................486
Vallejo ......................487
Patterson ..................488
East Bay ..................489
Corcoran ..................490
Woodstock ..............491
Garvanza ..................492
Atascadera ..............493
Acorn ........................494
Lebanon ................U. D.
Riverdale ..............U. D.
Fremont ................ U. D.
Stockton ................U. D.
Capital City ........ U. D.
Roosevelt ............U. D.
Westwood ............U. D.
Harbor •.................U. D.
Point ......................U. D.
Seaside ..................U. D.
Silver Cord ........U. D.
Mt. Olive ............U. D.
El Segundo ........U. D.
Joppa ....................U . D.
Benj. Franklin ....U. D.
Cupertino ............ U. D.
Sunnyvale ............U. D.
Palms ....................U. D.
Cahuenga ............U. D.

56.30
141.15
328.30
79.95
188.05
73.85
143.90
77.05
58.60
139.25
160.35
49.10
130.50
88.25
93.05
92.00
49.55
63.10
50.35
88.35
41.50
33.55
47.10
43.95
62.20
31.65
28.60
22.95
136.80

11.90
19.95
39.90
14.70
27.65
15.05
21.70
13.65
9.80
19.25
18.55
6.30
17.50
12.25
13.65
14.00
10.15
13.30
11.55
11.55
10.50
10.15
13.30
7.35
12.60
9.45
9.80
7.35
9.10

Total.

17.00
200.00
285.20
28.50
580.00
769.60
57.00 1,320.00 1,745.20
21.00
300.00
415.65
39.50 1,000.00 1,255.20
21.50
300.00 . 410.40
31.00
720.00
916.60
19.50
280.00
390.20
14.00
320.00
402.40
27.50
700.00
886.00
26.50
860.00 1,065.40
9.00
280.00
344.40
25.00
640.00
813.00
17.50
500.00
618.00
19.50
500.00
626.20
20.00
420.00
546.00
i4.50
200.00
274.20
19.00
280.00
375.40
16.50
140.00
218.40
16.50
560.00
676.40
15.00
160.00
227.00 .
14.50
40.00
98.20
19.00
100.00
179.40
10.50
200.00
261.80
18.00
220.00
312.80
13.50
40.00
94.60
14.00
40.00
92.40
fo.5o
60.00
100.80
13.00
40.00
87.80

R. E. ALLAN,
CHAS.

D. BARNn,

CLAR:t>NCI> A. TILLOTSON,
H:t>NRY G. ILDl>ltTON,
FRANK
TADJ;;,

w.

Committee.

Adopted as presented.

645

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committ~e on Charters has had under consideration the
petitions for charters of the following Lodges, for the formation and
opening of which dispensations were issued within the past Masonic
year :
Harbor Lodge, at Richmond.
Point Lodge, at Richmond.
Cupertino Lodge, at Cupertino.
Mt. Olive Lodge, at Los Angeles.
El Segundo Lodge, at El Segundo.
Cahuenga Lodge, at Hollywood, Los Angeles.
Fremont Lodge at ·Oakland.
Lebanon Lodge, at San Francisco.
Capital City Lodge, at ·Sacramento.
Stockton Lodge, at Stockton.
Your Committee has examined the dispensations, by-laws and
books of record of said Lodges, has found the same to meet the requirements of the Constitution, and therefore recommends that a
charter issue to each of them, numbered respectively as follows :
Harbor Lodge No. 502, at Richmond.
Point Lodge No. 503, at Richmond.
Cupertino Lodge No. 510, at Cupertino.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, at Los Angeles.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507, at El Segundo.
Cahuenga Lodge No. 513, at Los Angeles (Hollywood) .
Fremont Lodge No. 497, at Oakland.
Lebanon Lodge No. 495, at San Francisco.
Capital City Lodge No. 499, at Sacramento.
Stockton Lodge No. 498, at Stockton.
Your Committee has also had under consideration the petitions for
charters of the following Lodges, to which dispensations were issued ·
during the past Masonic year:
Benjamin Franklin Lodge, at Los Angeles.
Joppa Lodge, at San Joaquin.
With reference to Benjamin Franklin Lodge, your Committee finds
all books and records in satisfactory condition, with the exception that
the by-laws, M heretofore reported by the Committee on By-Laws of ·
Lodges, have not been signed by the charter members. Your Committee. recommends that . a charter issue to said lodge, ~o be designated
and numbered Benjamin Franklin Lcidge No. 509, at Los Angeles, but

646

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that said Lodge be required to secure the signatures of its charter
members to the by-laws as a prerequisite to the constitution of the
Lodge.
With reference to Joppa Lodge, your Committee finds all books
and records in proper form, with the exception of certain omissions in
the by-laws heretofore noted in the report of the Committee. on By-La~s
of Lodges. Your Committee recomrr:ends that a charter issue to said
Lodge to be designated and numbered Joppa Lodge No. 508, at San
Joaquin, but that said Lodge be required to correct its by-laws prior
to its constitution.
Your Committee has also had under consideration the petitions for
charters 'of the following Lodges to which dispensations were issued
within the past Masonic year:
Sunnyvale Lodge, at Sunnyvale.
Silver Cord Lodge, at Santa Ana.
Palms Lodge, at Palms.
Seaside Lodge, at Long Beach.
Roosevelt Lodge, at San Francisco.
Westwood Lodge, at Westwood.
We find that the minute books of these lodges are deficient; that
sorr:e of them have failed to record the minutes of their preliminary
meetings · that some have failed to enter their dispensations and bylaws and . that some have failed to enter their financial statements.
Exa~ination discloses, however, that the requisite proceedings were
taken in all cases and that the cimission.s from the record books were
due to the inexperience of new Secretaries. The delegates of each qf
these Lodges having agreed that the minutes will be promptly corrected
to meet the r equirements of the Constitution, your Committee recommends that charters be issued to the foregoing Lodges, to be designated
and numbered as follows:
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511, at Sunnyvale.
Silver Cord Lodge No. 505, at Santa Ana.
Palms Lodge No. 512, at Palms.
Seaside Lodge No. 504, at Long Beach.
Roosevelt Lodge No. 500, ~t San Francisco.
Westwood Lodge No. 501, at Westwood.
Your Corr:mittee has also considered the petition of Riverdale
Lodge, at Riverdale, heretofore opened under dispensat~on, for a charter and finds that the minutes of the Lodge are deficient. The delega;e of said Lodge has promised that the minutes will be put in proper
condition forthwith. Your Committee therefore recommends that a
charter issue to said Lodge, to be designated and numbered Riverdale
Lodge No. 496, at Riverdale. Having learned that the Junior Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

647

nominated by said Lodge to serve under charter has failed to perfect
himself in all the ritualistic requirements, your Committee recommends
that his installation be conditioned on his agreement to satisfy the
Inspector of his district, within thirty days of the date of charter,
of his proficiency in the ritual.
WILL H. FISCHER,

w. E. WOOD,

T. R. DINSMORJ<;,
B. GRI!I!LJ<:Y,
Committee on Charters.

CHAS.

Report adopted, and charters ordered to be issued accordingly.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
Masonic Club at University of California

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on General Policy and Purposes, to which was
referred that portion of the Grand Master's report relating to the
Masonic Club at the University of California, has had the same under
consideration, and to meet the need, your Committee recommends :
First: That the Grand Lodge of California hereby approves of
the erection of a suitable clubhouse near the campus of the University
of California for the use of Master Masons, and sons and daughters
of Masons at the University.
Second:. That the Grand Lodge give its consent to a statewide
appeal among Masons for the necessary funds to erect and equip such
a building.
Third: That the Grand Lodge hereby authorize the formation of
.a corporation, or association for the purpose of holding title to the
necessary property, and to administer the business affairs of the organization, the plan of such organization to be approved by the Grand
Master, and provided, always, that the Grand Lodge shall have at
least one representative, to be designated by the Grand Master, on
such board.

Adopted.
Recognition of York Grand Lodge

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on General Policy and Purposes have had under
consideration the matter of Masonry in Mexico, as set forth in the
report of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, supplemented by the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

report of Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, who was delegated
by the Grand Master to represent him in an examination on the
ground of the conditions presently surrounding Masonry in Mexico.
At the outset, we desire to commend the foresight and wisdom of
the Grand Master in delegating the personal investigation of this
subject to Past Grand Master Adams; secondly, we are greatly indebted
to the latter gentleman for his illuminating and comprehensive report,
, and feel that the subject has been most thoroughly and ably covered.
We therefore heartily concur in the recommendations contained in that
report. We therefore offer the following resolutions and recommend
their adoption:
Whereas, This Grand Lodge, at the Annual Communication of
1902, extended fraternal recognition to the "Grand Lodge of A. F. &
A. M. Valle de Mexico"; and
Whereas, It now satisfactorily appears, after thorough inquiry and
investigation, that the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, to which recognition was so extended, changed its name in 1911, and ever since has
been, and now is, known as the "York Grand Lodge of Mexico F. &
A. M."; and that there is no reason why that recognition should be
, withdrawn; Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California, being fully advised
of all the facts and circumstances, hereby formally extends fraternal
recognition to the York Grand Lodge of Mexico F. & A. M., of which
M.'. W.'. Ernest J. Nicklos is Grand Master; and that the Grand Master
of Masons in California, when so requested, arrange for an interchange of fraternal representatives ; and be it further
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California does hereby express
the hope that a solution may be found for the problems now confronting Ancient Craft Masonry in the Republic of Mexico, and that harmony may be restored; and commending the fraternal spirit which
prompted the Grand Master of the York Grand Lodge and .his brethren
to adopt the suggestions and recommendations of the Texas Commission
for a merger with the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, and confirming
the assurance given at that time by the representative of the Grand.
Master of Masons in California, together with the Texas Commission
and the Grand Master of Louisiana. Be it further
Resolved, That in the event of a merger of the York Grand Lodge
of Mexico· with the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico and the organization
thereby of a new Grand Lodge in the Republic of Mexico, the fraternal
recognition hereby extended the York Grand Lodge of Mexico be
deemed to be extended the new Grand Lodge so formed, under whatever
name it may be known. ·

Grand Lodge of Chili

648

Adopted.

649

Your C~mmitt7e has had referred to it a· letter from the Grand
~odge of Chile, which communicates to this Grand Lodge the informa~n th.at the Grand Lodge of Chile is actively engaged in progressive
asonic work, and we would recommend that this communication be
a.cknowledged by the Grand Secretary with expressions of congratula. t10n and fraternal greeting.

Adopted.
United Grand Lodge of Queensland
. There' has been submit'ted to us an application on behalf of the
United Grand Lodge of Queensland, requesting recognition by this
Grand Lodge and the mutual appointment of representatives.
Inasmuch as at our annual communication in 1915 the Grand Lod e
of Queensla~d was recognized by this body, and said Grand Lodge ~f
~ueensland is one of those grand bodies which is a party to the union
· JUst formed, and whic? consti.tutes the United Grand Lodge of Queenslan?, we have no hesitancy m recommending that the request of the
United Grand Lodge of. Queensland should be· complied with. We
therefore offer the following resolutions and recommend their adoption:

Wher.e~s, This Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication of
1915 extended fraternal recognition to the Grand Lodge of Queensland; and
•
Whereas; ~t now satisfactorily appears that said Grand Lodge of
Queensland, and the Queensland Grand Lodge at a joint meeting held
on the 27th day of April, 1921, effected a unlon between the two to
be thereafter known as the United Grand Lodge of A nc1en
· t F ree 'an d
·A
ccepted 1:~sons of Queensland, and there is no reason why our for. mer recogn1t1on should not be extended to the new joint bod . N
therefore, be it
Y•
ow
Resolved,' That the Grand Lodge of California being fully advised
of all .t ?e facts and ~ircumstances, hereby formaliy extends fraternal
recognition to the United Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted
Mas?ns of Queensland, and that the Grand Master of Masons in California arrange for an interchange of fraternal representatives with
said United Grand Lodge of Queensland.

Adopted.
Grand Lodges of Ecuador and Guatemala
The matter of the applications of the Grand Lodges of Ecuador
and Guate~al~ f?r fraternal recognition by this Grand Body, has been
under consideration by your Committee, but we regret to say that we
. do not feel we have sufficient information upon which to base a recom-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINQ:S OF THE

650

mendation, either for or against these applications, and we would
therefore recommend .that no action be taken upon the same at this
time.

Adopted.
Masonic Service Association of the United States
At our annual communication of 1920 the matter of affiliation with
the Masonic Service Association was under consideration, and your
Committee recommended (which recommendation was concurred in
by the Grand Lodge) that the Grand Master .and Gra~d . Se'ltetary
attend the annual meeting of the Masonic .Service Assoc1at1on of the
United States and report on the advisability of alliance with such
Association, and that no further action looking to an alliance with the
M"asonic Service Association be taken until after such report by the
Grand Master and Grand Secretary. As indicated by the annual
message of the Grand Master, the Grand ~aster a.nd Gran~ ~ecretary
attended the annual meeting of the Masomc Service Association held
at St. Louis, Mo., November 9, 10 and 11, 1920, and have submitt~d
a full and comprehensive report upon such visit, together with their
recommendations.
Your Committee feels that the subject has been carefully and comprehensively considered by your representatives, and we therefore rec. omrnend' that the recommendation of the Grand Master and Grand
Secretary (that this Grand Lodge do not join the Masonic Service
Association), be, and the same is hereby concurred in.

Adopted.
Amendment to Section 41 of Constitution
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes have given due
consideration to the following resolution, and finding the same consistent with the expressed policy of this Grand Lodge and introduced for
the purpose of clarifying the law and making more flexible the mana~e­
ment and use of the Masonic Homes funds, do hereby recommend its
adoption:
.
Resolved, That section 41, subdivision 1st, be amended to read as
follows:
1st. For every degree it shall have conferred d'u ring the year, the
sum of one dollar ; and in addition thereto the sum of twenty dollars
for the use and benefit of the Masonic Hornes of California, for every
candidate of its own Lodge upon whom it shall have conferred the first
degree and for every member elected for affiliation upon ~ ~i~it. or
certificate of standing or withdrawal from a Lodge of a Jur1sd1ct1on
other than California. The contributions for the use and benefit of the
Masonic Homes shall be by the Lodge collected from the petitioners
at the time of the receipt of their petitions, and shall be transmitted to

651

the Grand Secretary on the first day of November, February, May and
August of each year, subsequent to the initiation of such petitioners;
and immediately upon receipt thereof the Grand Secretary shall pay
the same over to the Grand Treasurer, to be by him held subject to
the order of the Trustees for the use and benefit of the Homes. When
the amount thus collected and so held shall be more than sufficient, in
the judgment of the Trustees, to provide for the maintenance of the
Homes and for such improvements as are then in progress or contemplated for the immediate future, the surplus shall be by them allocated to the Endowment Fund.

Report adopted and section 41, subdivision 1st, was
amended as above set out by unanimous vote.
Past Masters of Island Lodges
Your Committee on General Policy and Purposes has had under
consideration the request heretofore made that the Past Masters of
Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie who served as Masters thereof prior to
the time a charter was issued to said Lodge by the Grand Lodge, and
the Past Masters of Pacific Lodge who served as Masters thereof prior
to the time a charter was issued to said Lodge under the name of
Honolulu Lodge No. 409, and who are now members of said respective
Lodges, be given the status of Past Masters of this Grand Lodge and
your Committee is of the opinion that the request should be granted.
The Past Masters of Lodge Maui, now Maui No. 472, were accorded
the status of Past Masters of this Grand Lodge and the situation of
the Past Masters of old Pacific and old Le Progres de l'Oceanie are
quite analogous, and their desires in this respect are laudable and
reasonable.
Your Committee therefore recommends that the following resolution be adopted :
Resolved, That the title of Past Master as defined in our Constitution shall apply to all the Past Masters of Honolulu Lodge No. 409 and
Le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371 who served said respective
Lodges as Masters prior to the time the said Lodges became subordinate
of this Grand Jurisdiction and that all such Past Masters shall hereafter be entitled to all the rights and privileges of this Jurisdiction
under our Constitution.

Adopted.
Expenditures for Refreshments
Your Committee on General Policy and Purposes has had under
consideration the amendment to the Constitution proposed by Reginald
W . Clapp, affecting the provisions relative to the 20 per cent of the
total revenue of a Lodge available for purposes of refreshment and
the promotion of fraternal intercourse. The object sought to be accom-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

652

plished by the change in our laws, proposed by Brother Clapp, is to
enable a Lodge to base its expenditures within the limitation of 20 per
cent of the gross revenue, upon the revenues of the current year rather
than those of the preceding year.
The amount of money proper to be expended for refreshments
and the promotion of fraternal intercourse varies from year to year.
There appears to be no good reason why a Lodge should not be permitted to expend a definite proportion of its revenues, for those purposes
without reference to the amount of revenue received by it at some
previous time.
Your Committee therefore recommends that Section 89 of the
Constitution be amended to read as follows:
Section 89. Excepting, however, that the Lodge n:ay expend 20
per cent of its total revenue for purposes of refreshments and the
promotion of Fraternal intercourse.

Adopted, and section 89 amended as above by. unanimous vote.

653

We have carefully considered the matter, together with the recommendations of the Worshipful Brother, and are of the opinion that
the duties of the Grand Orator are sufficiently prescribed in our present
laws and that, therefore, no further action or legislation is necessary
at this time.

Adopted.
Jurisdictional Disputes
Your Committee has had under consideration the communications
from Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192 and Lompoc Lodge No. 262, calling attention to the possible differences of opinion between the two
Lodges as to their respective jurisdictional boundaries.
It is the sense of your Committee that the questions involved here
are sufficiently covered by our present laws, and that therefore this
subject matter does not call for any recommendation from the Committee at this time.

Adopted.

Dual Membership

Masonic Education

Your Committee on General Purposes and Policy, to which was
referred the resolution calling for the amendment of section 157 of
the Constitution to permit dual membership, begs leave to report as
follows:
The subject of dual membership is one which deserves very careful
investigation and mature consideration. There are many good reasons
in our judgment why dual membership should be permitted, and there
are at the same time objections of more or less validity which may be
urged against the introduction of this new policy in our law and policy.
As at present advised your Committee is favorable to the establishment of the dual membership system, but until it has made further
investigation and given a greater consideration to the question it is
not prepared to make any recommendation to the Grand Lodge on the
subject. Your Committee believes that the interests of the craft would
be better served if consideration of this matter by the Grand Lodge was ·
postponed for one year, and it therefore recommends that the subject
be postponed until the next Annual Communication of this Grand
Lodge.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the interesting report of the Committee on Masonic
Education, and after a careful examination of the same feel constrained
to say that the general plan of Masonic education now in operation is
both practical and workable, for the r.eport of the Committee on Education shows progress. And therefore, r:eiterating our unswerving faith in
the prime importance of Masonic education and our earnest desire· to
see that work carried on energetically, we recommend the adoption of
the suggestions numbered 1 and 2 of the report, namely, (1) That the
present form of organization of the Committee be continued. (2) That
the organization of Officers' Associations be continued.

Adopted.
Change in Functions of Grand Orator
Your Committee on General Policy and Purposes has had under
consideration the recommendations of the Worshipful Grand Orator,
looking to a change in the law governing the functions of the Grand
Orator.

Recommendations 3, 4 and 5 of the Committee on Education are,
in the judgment of your Committee, covered by the general authority
conferred in recommendations I and 2; that is, if such recommendations
are made by this Grand Lodge, they vest the Committee on Masonic
Education to do each and all the things covered by recommendations
3, 4 and 5 of that Committee's report.
·Y our Committee is finally of the opinion that recomn:endation 6
is more properly a matter for consideration by the Finance Committee
than this one, and therefore recommends the reference of that portion
of the report fOntained in recommendation 6 to the Finance Committee.

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

654

Consideration of Grand Master's Address
Your Committee on General Policy and Purposes has had under
consideration those portions of the Grand -Master's address dealing
with
I. Private concerns;
2. Clandestine Masonry;
3. Organizations demanding Masonic affiliation.
Use of Word "Masonic" in Business
l. As to the first, your Committee notes with approval and hearty
comrr:endation the efforts the Gra.nd Master has made through his
letter to the Craft to insure that all the brethren should have a clear
idea of the exact nature of these organizations, no matter by what
name they go. In this connection and supplemental to his original
report, the Grand Master reported notification in writing by one such
organization, which had been in business for twenty-:;ix years, of its
intention to change its name and drop the objectionable word "Masonic"
from its title, and that initial steps to that end had already been taken
by that organization.
In this connection, also, your Committee is advised by the officers
of another organization using the word "Masonic" in its title, under
the advice of eminent legal and Masonic counsel, not connected with or
employed by this organization, that they were entirely within the law
of this Grand Lodge in so using the word "Masonic," yet, nevertheless,
by reason of the fact that misapprehensions have arisen and much
criticism has been directed against them, they have decided to change
the name of the organization and eliminate the word "Masonic" from
the title thereof, in the hope that such action will ren:ove any further
misapprehension and misunderstanding by any member of the Craft.

Adopted.

• " - - _ ._ ............... _ ............. l. .. ".;,,, .. - ... ............ ... ""' ...... ... -.~. ~i...~.v.a-•-•• • .....,. ...... ••., • ....... "" • .......... ... _ ..

The following resolution was introduced by Brother
W. W. Abbott, and referred to the Committee on General
Policy and Purposes:
A provision to be added to section 165, relating to Membership in
Lodges, How Retained, to read as follows:
And it is further provided that no Master Mason in this jurisdiction shall make application to any branch of Masonry, for any of the
higher degrees, until he sha'.I have been a member in good standing of
rnme Lodge in this grand jurisdiction for a period of not less than one
year.

.
Clandestine Masonry

_ We are heartily in accord with the views of the Grand Master on
the subject of Clandestine Masonry and the action taken by him in
the specific instances brought to his attention.

Adopted.
"Side" Organizations
Your Committee cannot but view with apprehension the multiplication of organizations having· as a prerequisite for membership the
attaining of the Master's degree, and thereby posing or being thought
to be Masonic institutions, and it is our belief that this Grand Lodge
should go on record a_s discouraging the further super-imposition of
such organizations upon the foundation of Masonry; and in specific

__

o formal report was made thereon, but a statement
was made by one of the members of the Committee on
General Policy and Purposes that the purpose of the resolution would probably be effected through legislation which
it was hoped would be elsewhere enacted before the next
Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, and that no action
of Grand Lodge would in that event be necessary. On
that statement, the resolution was withdrawn by Brother
Abbott with the consent of Grand Lodge, but upon the
understanding that it would be· reintroduced at the next
Annual Communication if the present condition then remained unchanged.

..._.._. ~rrrrr- Pr---~~-----------,~--~ - ·--~-~-~----------~---- -~-~-~--- -~--~---~ -

655

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

instances where knowledge of the laws or practices of such institutions
shows that they are subversive of the principles of Masonry, good
morals, or good citizenship, we would recommend legislation making
it a Masonic offense for a Master Mason to identify himself with such
!I r
organization.
Degree Teams

'

In this connection we recommend that no Lodge shall permit any
degree to be conferred by a degree team under the name, or dressed
in the regalia, or any part thereof, of any organization, the prerequisite
of membership in which is that he be a Master Mason.

Unanimously adopted.
Status of Adult Daughters of Masons

I

The attention of your Committee on General Policy and Purposes has been directed to the fact th'a t the daughter of a Master
Mason has been treated as such (regardless of her age) as to general relief; but that general rule has not been applied so as to admit
an adult daughter of a Master Mason to our Homes.
This matter was referred to this Committee at our last annual
communication, but was deferred pending investigation and is now
before us for final consideration . Brother Leo Bruck has conducted an exhaustive correspondence with other grand jurisdictions
and has submitted the voluminous results of the same to your Committee.
Without deeming it necessary to go into the merits, it is the
sense of the Committee that whatever rule of construction is
adopted, should be uniform in its application, and since we now
extend general relief to adult orphan daughters of Master Masons,
we believe that the Trustees of our Homes should admit such
orphans in proper cases to the benefits of the Home, and we therefore recommend the modification of the present rules of admission
to the Home so as to accomplish this result.
BRADFORD 'WEBSTER,

w. R. HENRY,

ORRIN

S. HENDERSON,

EuGENE S. Er.Kus,

w. H . WASTE,

CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS,
T . LUCAS,

w.

Committee,

Recommendation adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

656

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Brother Jesse M. Whited, chairman of the Committee
on Correspondence, presented the report of his Commi.ttee,
and it was ordered to be published. with the Proceedings.
ADDITIONAL FLAGPOLE
Brother Garibaldi introduced a resolution that an additional flagpole be placed on the Temple, in order that the
American flag may be displayed there, as well as that of
the Grand Lodge banner. Referred to the Committee on
Finance.
Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock Friday

657

Committee offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption.
Resolved, That the sum of $11,230.89 be and is. hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as
follows:
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco .......................... :.......$3,789,29
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles ...................................... . 5,Sti9.43
To the Board of Relief of Oakland ............................................ 362.17
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento ...................................... 556.00
To the Board of Relief of San Diego ........................................ 155.00
To the Board of Relief of Honolulu ........................................ 550.00
To the Board of ReH'ef of San Bernardino ................................ 24~.00

$11,230.89

Adopted.
Employment Bureaus

morning.

Morning Session
Friday, October 14, 1921.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding. The minutes of yesterday's sessions
were read and approved.
GENERAL REPORTS OF FINANCE COMMITTEE
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
your Commit.tee on Finance begs leave to report as follows:
Boards of Relief
Your Committee has received and carefully checked the reports
of the Boards of Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, Oakland,
Sacramento, San Diego, San Bernardino and Honolulu: The~e
reports show that the splendid work of relief so long earned on m
this grand jurisdiction, has continued during the. past year. T~e
Secretary of each Board has contributed of his time and effort m
behalf of distressed Masons far beyond the conception of the
average member, and we heartily commend their work. Your

In connection with the Boards of Relief in ' San Francisco, Los
Angel1ts, San Diego and · San Bernardino, employment bureaua have
been established, as well as in Oakland, which was established
independent of the Board of Relief. Your Committee is ot the
opinion that the greatest relief extended is in employment, and
therefore desire to encourage these bureaus as far as possible. If
a position can be secured for a brother or his dependents, it is of
far more service than charity which can be of only a temporary
nature. Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution
and recommends its adoption.
Resolved, That the sum of $3,500 be and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as
follows:
To the Employment Bureau of San Francisco :....................... $1,200.00
To the Employment Bureau of Los Angeles ............................ 1,200.00
To the Employment Bureau of Oakland .................................... 600.00
To the Employment Bureau of San Diego ............................ 300.00
To the Employment Bureau of San Bernardino.................... 200.00

$3,500.00
Adopted~

Masonic Temple Association
The report of the Masonic Temple A~sociation has been carefully considered. The report shows that the Temple has met all
of its current expenses and out of its own revenue has paid $10,000

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

658

on the mortgage which, with the $40,000 appropriated last year by
this Grand Lodge, reduced the mortgage as of September 1st 1921,
to $140.000. Your Committee is of the opinion that the funds of this
Grand Lodge are sufficient to enable them to purchase additional
stock to the amount of $40,000. We therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption.
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge subscribe for 4,000 shares
of stock in the Masonic Temple Association of California, at the
price of $10 per share, in addition to the stock already owned.

Adopted.
Salaries
Your Committee recommend that the salaries of the Grand
officers during the coming year, and the traveling allowance of
the Grand Master be as follows:
Salary of Grand Treasurer ...................................................".........$ 200.00
Salary of Grand S~cretary ··········-···-·····-···································· 6,000.00
Salary of Ass't. Grand Secretary ................•........•...................... 3,600.00
Salary of Grand Lecturer ............................................................ 4,200.00
Salary of Grand Tyler .................................................................... 200.00
Services of Committee on Correspondence ............................ ZOO.DO
Contingent expenses of the Grand Master ............................ 2,500.00
It is impossible to appropriate a definite sum for the expenses
of the Grand Lecturer, and your Committee recommends that an
itemized account of actual expenses incurred 'by him, be filed with
the Grand Secretary and when audited and approved by the Committee on Accounts, that the expenses be paid in the usual manner.

Adopted.
Portrait of Grand Master
Your Committee offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption.
Resolved, That the Most Worshipful Grand Master, George F ..
Rodden, be requested to sit for his portrait, and when finished; the
V. W. Grand Secretary have the same suitably framed and placed
with the portraits of other Grand Masters in the Masonic Temple,
San Francisco.

Adopted.
Accounts
Your Committee em.ployed Ruckstell & Land, certified public
accountants, who have examined the records of the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, and report them
to be correct.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

659

The securities of the Grand Lodge being held in trust by the
Anglo California Trust Company, have been accounted for, and
Brothers Bruck and Klevesahl of this Committee, counted the
securities in the safe deposit box of the Grand Treasurer located
in the Mercantile Trust Company, and found them to be correct.

Adopted.
Masonic Homes
The annual report of the Trustees. of the Masonic Homes of California, together with -the financial report certified to by the accountants
of the Board, has been examined; It displays splendid management on
behalf of. the Trustees. During the year ending July 31st, 1921, there
was received from the $20 charge for initiations, the sum of $193,760,
one-half of which, or $96,880, should be credited to maintenance· the J5cent per capita tax produced $29,544, or a total for the suppo/t of the
Hon:es during the coming year of $126,424. During the year just closed,
the net expenses of the Homes was only $93,468, which would indicate
that the Trustees have on hand sufficient money to operate the Homes
during the coming year without a deficit. It is hardly to be expected,
however, that the present rate of accessions to our Institution will continue on such a scale as has marked our increase during 1920 and 1921.
However, we believe that a sufficient amount will be raised by the
$20 payment of the initiate to allow us to reduce the tax for the
Home maintenance fund to 25 cents for the coming year. Yo~r Committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption.
Resolved, That the sum of 25 cents per capita be levied upon the
membership for the maintenance of our Homes at Decoto and Covina
payable July 31st, 1922.
'

Adopted.
Your Committee has had under consideration the recommendation
of the Board of Trustees of the Homes, which read as follows: "That
a summary of this report, together with the rules for admission to the
Hornes, be caused to be printed by the Grand Secretary, and copies
be forwarded to each Lodge in sufficient number for every member
in the Jurisdiction."
We are of the opinion this is an excellent idea, but ~e recommend
that the expenditure be paid from the funds of the Homes and not
from the fun~s of this Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
U. C. Club at Berkeley
Your Committee on Finance, to which was referred that portion of
the Grand Master's report relating to the Masonic Club at the University of California, has had the same under consideration.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

660

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

You will no doubt recall, that the 1920 session of this Grand Lodge
made an appropriation of $2000 to this project, carrying with it
certain recommendations, none of which were fulfil!ed, and therefore
none of the money was expended. We therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $2000 be appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of aiding the proposed Masonic
Club at the University of California, such sum to be available subject
to the following provisions :
That an organization satisfactory to the Grand Master shall be
set up, and in which organization the Grand Master shall have at least
one representative.
That plans for Club purposes and for the financing and maintenance of the Club shall be perfected satisfactory to the Grand Master.
That a sum shall be rais.ed for Club purposes which, in the opinion
of the Grand Master, will be sufficient to warrant that the amount
appropriated will not be frittered away for useless purposes.

Adopted.
Francis Drake Lodge
Your Committee has had under consideration the request of Francis
Drake Lodge No. 376, for reimbursement for funds expended for the
support of Mrs. Charlotte Nass. It appears from the correspondence
that Mrs. Nass is the widow of a deceased Mason who was a member
of Fortitude Lodge No. 19 of Brooklyn, New York. Mrs.. Nass is
more than 80 years of age, and is in a helpless condition, which required
that she be placed in a home where she could receive constant care.
She is at present in the home of Anna. Henry, 3136 Fruitvale avenue,
Oakland, and the expense of maintaining Mrs. Nass in this home is
$80.00 per month. Fortitude Lodge has practically declined to assist
in the support of Mrs. Nass.
We recommend, first, that the case be turned over to the Board of
Relief of Oakland, and that they be requested to take up the care of
Mrs. Nass, and that Francis Drake Lodge be relieved from further
responsibility. Second, that we recommend Francis Drake Lodge · to
turn over all the correspondence to our Grand Secretary, that he
communicate with the Grand Secretary of New York, and see if some
assistance and reimbursement cannot be had from Fortitude Lodge.
We further recommend that the amount heretofore expended by
Francis Drake Lodge, namely, $310.00, be returned to it. We therefore
uffer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $310.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Francis Drake Lodge
for the amount expended in the support of Mrs. Nass.

Adopted.

661

Grand Organist
. Brothe_r .~amuel D. Mayer has for more than half a centur oc u
p1ed t~e pos1t1on of Grand Organist of this Grand Jurisdiction y y ~u;
Comm1ttee recommend that h b
·
·
and th t
h .
e e appointed Grand Organist Emeritus
Broth a Man o~oranum of one hundred dollars a year be paid t~
er ayer, m quarterly installments.

Adopted.
Illinoistown Lodge
f iJ3rot~er James Graham, a member of Monahgan Lodge No 352
o.
o~a gan county, Ireland, has been confined to a hospital in Coif '
~:\y c~?be~, tl920. hA ~ortion of the expens~s of this brother has be:~
is sis er, :' o is a governess in a San Francisco famil b
the burden becoming too great Illinoistown Lod
y, t~t
;~~is~iction c:n~ribu~ed towards 'the maintenance o~eth~obr!~h~f $t~
as not een reimbursed by the brother's Lodge in Ireland W
therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoptlon: e
Resolved, That the sum of $100 b
d .
e ~n is her~by. appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lod
ge to reimburse Illmo1stown Lodge
No 51 f th d
. ' or e a vance made to Brother Graham

Adopted.

·
Pajaro Lodge

.

~rother Alexander Fish, a member of Harmar Lod e No

~a~~:~taL~;~o, ;:s tt~io~fslyth~ll ·n ~da~s~nville,

hi~ f1~~s~~

~~1sa~~;·io:.e

r~oc~~~::~

1
and durfng
d
·d b 'II
•
is 1uns 1ct1on advanced
for the account of · Brother
Fish' 'II
'h
an pa1
t s
this am
t H
s I ness to t e amount of $763 35 Of
oun '
armar Lodge returned $200 00 I .
. .
$563 35 O G d S
· • eavmg a balance of
. .
ur ran
ecretary has written the Grand L d
f 0 .
~~~~:rnin~ t~i~ account, hut so far no settlement has b~e!emoade h1~
5th receive rom th~ Grand Secretary of Ohio, under date of Oct~ber
f
, says the matter 1s under investigation by the G d M
0 ?io. We feel that Pajaro Lodge can ill-afford to ~~
aster o
therefore offer the following resolution andt

of t~:sob::~dT~~~;~e t~um ?f b$563.35pb~ appropriated from the funds
h
retm urse a1aro Lodge No 110 f
moneys expended on the account of the illness of Brother Flsh.or t e
Marin Lodge

Lodg~o~o Clo9ml mf ittee l~afs had under consideration the claim of Marin
·
or re 1e extended to M
Th
Lorenzo D Co J I t
rs.
omas Fuller, daughter of
. .
.
w es, a e a member of Romeo Lod e N 41
M1ch1gan. It appears that Mrs. Fuller's husband d1ed Io.. ' o~ R~me?,
tute, and as she was mentally and physically unablee~~m!ro~[de e~~;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

662

herself, Marin Lodge contributed to her support the sum of $107.09.
As Romeo Lodge has refused to reimburse Marin Lodge, your Committee is of the opinion that Marin Lodge should be reimbursed, and offer
the following resolution and recommend· its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $107.09 be appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Marin Lodge No. 91 for the money
expended in· the support of Mrs. Thomas Fuller.

Adopted.
· Berkeley Lodge
Your Committee has had before it the claim of Berke!ey Lodge No.
363, for reimbursement of the sum of $275.00. It appears that George
Uttley, a member of Confidence Lodge No. 203, of Castroville, di'ed
in May, 1920, leaving a widow who is a helpless invalid and requiring
the attention of a nurse. Berkeley Lodge has been handling the case
and so far has expended several hundred dollars. It has been able to
collect from friends and distant relatives all but the sum of $275.00.
It appears that Confidence Lodge consists of 28 members and the Lodge
is unable to reimburse Berkeley Lodge. We therefore offer the follow. ing resolution and recomrr.end its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $275.00 be appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Berkeley Lodge No. 363, for the
moneys expended in the assistance of Mrs. George Uttley, for the
account of Confidence Lodge No. 203 of this Jurisdiction.

Adopted.
North Star Lodge
North Star Lodge No. 91, of Fort Jones, requests a refund of $1.90
overpaid in last year's returns on account of a brother who had demitted
fro.m said Lodge in 1919. We recommend that tjle request be granted,
and therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
·Resolved, That the sum of $1.90 be appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge to reimburse North Star Lodge No. 91, for refund
of overpaid Grand Lodge dues.

Adopted.

Masonic Education
Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration an appropriation in behalf of Masonic Education, and after a thorough investigation, your Comrr.ittee on Finance offers the following resolution and
recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That a sum not to exceed $3000 may be expended by
the Committee on Education under the supervision and with the approval of the Grand Master, on requisitions of said committee from time
to time as needed.

Adopted.

663

Flag Pole
B

~ourG C~mmi.ttee has had under consideration the resolution of

rot er

~nbald1

to place an additional flag pole on this Temple in
We are of the opinion that there
sh oufl
e prov1S1on made to display the stars and stripes as well as
~ e ag of the. Grand Lodge, but inasmuch as the Temple is rr.anaged
Y the Mas~mc Temple Association, we think it a matter for the
Board of Directors of said Association to deal with We th f
.
•
, ere ore,
offer the foll ·
owmg reso1ut10n and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the Masonic Temple Association of Califo · be
rma
requested
b d. toI make
d · suitable provision so that the ft ag o f our country
may e tsp aye m accordance with the said resolution,
o~de~d t~ displa~ :he American flag.

w. P. Ji;:FFRll\S,
G. A. HUTAFP',
0. M. GOLDAllACJ£NA,

H. C. Ku:vi;:sAHL
Li;:o BRucx,
'
Com~ttee.

The entire report was adopted as presented.

REQUIRING VISITORS TO EXHIBIT RECEIPTS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
. Your. ~ommittee on Ritual has had under consideration the resol~­
hon prov1dmg ~o~ a change in the opening ceremonies, to require all
mhembers and v1S1tors present to exhibit receipts for dues and repo t
t ereon as follows :
'
r
tive.The pr?posed change would n~cessitate legislation to make it effecSecti.on 125. of our Constitution requires that a visitor shall
pfro uce wntdten evidence of his good standing, not necessarily a receipt
or current ues.
s.ect~on 156 ent~tles a member to be present at all times and participate ~n its. proc~ed1~g.s. wi~hout imposing upon him the obligation of
carrying with him his receipt for dues.
There ~re circu~stances under which a member has the ·right to
att~nd i:i~etmgs of his. own Lodge- without having paid his current dues
an a v1s1tor may be m good standing without a receipt for such dues'
Moreover, the change would affect only those present at the openin~
of. the L?dge, and other members and visitors might be thereafter ad
m1tted without the formality.
We believe this legislation would serve no good pu
d
woul~ fa il •utterly to accomplish the desired result. The ~:sst~r ~:s

d

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

664

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it in his power and it is his duty under existing laws to satisfy himself
as to the standing of those present, and the time ·consumed in the
performance of the ceremony enjoined would be practically wasted.
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
DANA R. WELLER,
THOMAS

J. BAKER,
Committee.

Adopted.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS
Ete:tion of officers for the ensuing year was now de:~a::11 tn order, and the Grand Master appointed four sets
ers.. T~e result of the election was as follows:

elect~;eG~~d ~~~:~uel E . Burke of Sunset Lodge No. 35.2 was
The R.". W:. William A She
f p
· ·
elected Deputy Grand Mast~r.
rman o
res1d10 Lodge No. 354 was

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND LECTURER'S
REPORT
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the report of the Grand
Lecturer, begs leave to present the following report :
We commend the faithfulness and zeal which our beloved brother,
v:. w:. Grand Lecturer Thomas }. Baker, has e•er shown in the .
performance of the arduous duties pertaining to his office, and congratulate him and his corps of Inspectors on the high standard of efficiency
now attained throughout this Jurisdiction in the various Lodges. His
willingness, his courtesy, and his kindness have endeared him to our
entire membership.
We concur in his suggestion that the formation of additional
Lodges, rather than the building up of our merr:bership in Lodges of
great size, gives opportunity for our members to become better
acquainted and to practice the true fraternal spirit both inside and
outside of the Lodge room. We rejoice with him in the formation of
the twenty such new Lodges during the past year.
The tribute which the Grand Lecturer pays to the several Inspectors, and the credit which he ascribes to them for the good condition
of the Lodges in their several districts may be well deserved, and
undoubtedly is, but we are more than ever impressed with the fact that,
after all, the high standard our Lodges have attained and the care
with which the work is universally conducted, is due in the last analysis
to our beloved Grand Lecturer, Thomas J. Baker.
THEODORE M. WRIGHT,
FRANK

B. DRAKE,

Committee.

Adopted.

665

TdheSR ·:- w:. Arthur S. Crit~s of Bakersfield Lodge
eIec te
emor Grand Warden.
No. 224 was
The W.'. David J. Reese of San B
was elected Junior Grand Warden 4
uenaventura Lodge No. 214
The
w:.
William p Fil.
f
K'
S
260
·
n:er 0
mg olomon's Lod
N
was re-elected Grand Treasurer
ge
o.
ThedVG.'. w:. John Whicher of. King David's Lodge No 209
re-e lecte
rand Secretary.
·
was
The V.' . w:. Thomas }. Baker of Union
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
Lodge No. 58 was

v:.

.

Appointed Officers

. The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the foll .
.
owing
list of appointments:
GraNnd Chaplain, Very Rev. William MacCormack of West
L o dge o. 392.
Lake

~ra~d Orator, Will H. Fische~ of Wilshire Lodge No 445
ss1stant Grand Secretary Ha
S J h
·
·
'
rry · 0 nson of San Francisco
Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal Carl H H 'lb
.
G
•
· e1 ron of San Diego Lodge N 0 35
No. 4~.nd Standard Bearer, Malcolm Macintyre of Honolul~ ~dge
Grand Sw.o rd Bearer, Franeis }. McCoy of
No. 237.
Guadalupe Lodge
Bearer, David Lininger of Eureka Lodge No 16
SGra~d BGible
rand Deacon Da 'd M S h 1
· ·
'
v1
. ut er and of Sunset Lodge

emor
No. 352.

Junior Grand Deacon, Andrew S L
· amond of Burlingame Lodge
No. 400.
Senior Grand Steward Leo
d S L
'
nar
· eavy of Paul Revere Lodge
No. 462.
Junior Grand Steward Ralph A Cha
f S
Grand Pursuivant Th~odore J M 'll 'kse of unset Lodge No. 352.
G d 0
.
'
. I I en o Tehama Lodge No 3
ran
rgamst Emeritus, Samuel D Mayer 0 f C l' f
.
. .
No. 1.
·
·
a 1 orma Lodge

g;:~~ ~i;!:ni;t, c:a~le~E. Anderson ~f _Jewel Lodge No. 374.
,

ran

.

atson of Pres1d10 Lodge No. 354.

666

PROCl!JEDINGS OF THE

Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams was app~inted
Master of Ceremonies, and the officers-elect and appointed,
excepting the Grand Marshal, were installed i.n due and
ancient form by Past Grand Master George F. Rodden.
Immediately after installation, Past Master Ralph A.
Chase of Sunset Lodge No. 352 presented to Grand Master
Burke a beautiful ebony gavel, mounted with silver, the
gift of his brethren of Sunset Lodge.
Past Grand Master Frank M. Angellotti then, in a happy
speech, and as a life-long frien'd and neighbor, prese.nted to
the retiring Grand Master a consol phonograph with records and a tea wagon.
The retiring Grand Master, in the felicitous manner in
which he excels, delivered the Charles Albert Adams button-badge to his successor.
At z: 15 o'clock, all business being now comp~eted, the
seventy-second annual Grand Lodge was closed m Ample
Form.
JoHN WHICHl!R, Grand Secretary.

SAMUl!L E. BURKI!, Grand Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

667

ST ANDING COMMITTEES
Jurisprudence-Frank M. Angellotti, Mills Building, San Fran.cisco; Charles L. Patton, Mechanics Institute Building, San Francisco; Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Federal Building, Los Angeles; Dana R.
Weller, Union League Building, Los Angeles; Albert G. Burnett,
State Capitol, Sacramento; Francis V. Keesling, Chronicle Building,
San Francisco; John D. Murphey, First National Bank Building,
Oakland.
Policy and General Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, Trust and
Savings Building, Los Angeles; Bradford Webster, Pacific Building,
San Francisco; Orrin S. Henderson, 1174 Phelan Building, · San Francisco ; Eugene S. Elkus, 729 Mission Street, San Francisco; William
H. Waste, 2222 Durant Street, Berkeley; Charles G. Johnson, 2025
Clinton Avenue, Alameda; George F. Rodden, 177 Post Street, San
Francisco.
Grievances-George L. Jones, Nevada City; Adolphus E. Graupner, 525 Market Street, San Francisco; Albert E. Boynton, Insurance
Exchange Building, San Francisco; Warren E. Libby, Union Building,
San Diego; Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los
Angeles.
Finance-William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Gustave Hutaff, McKinley Court Apartments, Berkeley; John H.
Bean, 1347 Valencia Street, Los Angeles; Henry C. Klevesahl, Humboldt Bank, San Francisco; Leo Bruck, Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Credentials-Irving J. Mitchell, Guaranty Savings Bank, Los Angeles; Robert H. DeWitt, Yreka; Mervin J. Newberg, San Bernardino;
Charles M. Perry, El Centro; Fred W. LeBallister, ~51 East 14th
Street, Oakland.
Accounts-( All San Francisco). Edward E . Conn, 347 Clay Street;
Harvey D. Loveland, Flood Building; L. E. Penniman, 605 Van Ness
Avenue; Wm. C. Strickler, 1070 Dolores Street ; William P. Read,
Flood Building.
Returns- Robert E. Allan, 1290 . Sutter Street, San Francisco;
Charles D. Barnet, Santa Rosa; Clarence A. Tillotson, Dinuba; Henry
G. Ilderton, 1516 Chestnut Street, Alameda; George J. Wallace, 429
Sutter Street, San Francisco.
Ritual-Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Dana
R. Weller, Union League · Building, Los Angeles; William P. Filmer,
330 Jackson street, San Francisco,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

668

669

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Correspondence-Frank .G, Finlayson, Pacific Finance Building, Los
Angeles ; Daniel Cave, 208 Lankershim Building, Los Angeles ; Perseo
Rhigetti, '12 Geary Street, San Francisco; Carl L. Ratzer, 1J03 Washington Building, Los Angeles; Charles 0. Hamilton, Oroville.

N
(l)

Trustees Masonic Homes-Charles M. Wollenberg (1922), Relief
Home, San Francisco; James B. Gist (1923), 206 Security Building,
Los Angeles; Robie E. Dill (1924), 615.West Pico Street, Los Angeles;
Charles Albert Adams (1925), Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; and the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens.
·
Endowment-Motley H. Flint, Trust and Savings B'uilding,
Los Angeles; Alonzo J. Monroe, Eureka; John F. Ellison, Red Bluff;
Charles A. Root, Courthouse, Sacramento; Andrew Quinn, Exeter;
Edward B. Spencer, 2061 La Salle Avenue, Los Angeles ;William T.
'Lucas, Santa Maria; Roderick G. Guyett, Crocker Bank Building, San
Francisco.
Masonic Education-Jesse M. Whited, General Chairman, 310
Sansome Street, San Francisco.

~a'lB'llJ'i

Ill

..i

<

Pay of Members-John H. McGehee, Box 467, San Jose; Howard
D. Kercheval, Courtland; Ralph Harris, 95 South Los Robles Avenue,
Pasadena; T . R. Dinsmore, Eureka ; Jam es L. VanN orman, Title In-·
surance Building, Los Angeles.
Library-Denman S. Wagstaff, 1703 Broderick Street, San Francisco; Reynold E. Blight, Washington Building, Los Angeles; Peter
Jorgenson, 1267 Sixth Avenue, San Francisco; Walter P. Johnson,
846 Mills Building, San Francisco.

"SUOS'llJII

·sana runuuv
·uo1i'll1IllJV
rn1 00.t1

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~<e>~

:C'I. : . : : :e<1 ;lQ ,:

: .: ::: :

:

:oo~

: :~H

;lQ

:

;lQlQO,....""'

:

~

00
),

3..,
Iii

c
:ac

00 IP

.

~

ns

~

>

~

IP

3·~

:s"'
~ .c
~ ....
ns

CD

z ...
0

~

~
~ .c
~
0 ~"'

.

P'.:l
p E
CD

00
~

:s

"O

c
ns

0 "'CD
:::l

E-t c
00
~

H

ri

IP
IP
II.

..

ri
IP

t:
ns

.c

u

...
0

...IPns

"O

...

.c

~

0
.....

.....~

~~

~

:: ::

~::::

:: ~:
,...,
:

u:):: ..

c-i

lQ ~

~~

.,)

:: ::

~:
,...,

: : ~.O: :

:: :: ::

40
41
42
43
44
45

46

47
48
49
50
51
52
53

Santa Rosa ..... . 57 Santa Rosa ......... Sonoma ...••...••••
Union ..•.......• 58 Sacramento •.•.. • .. Sacramento •..•..••
Gravel Range .... 59 Camptonville ••.•... Yuba ••••••..••••••
Plumas ••..... . . 60 Quincy ••••••...•.• Plumas ••.•••••.. , •
Live Oak ....... . 61 Oakland •...•......• Alameda .........••
Natoma ........ . 64 Folsom .....••.•...• Sacramento ...•..••
Amador .... •. ... 65 Jackson ..•.....•..• Amador .•... •• •.•••
Forest . ....•. ... 66 Alleghany •..•..•... Sierra ...........•.
Morning Sta·r .... 68 Stockton ....•••.... San ;Joaquin .. . .... .
Enterprise
70 Yuba City •..••.• •. Sutter ..... . ..... ..
Bear Mountain .. . 76 Angel's Camp ••..•. Calaveras .... •• •.••
Calaveras .. .... . 78 San Andreas •.....• Calaveras •..••.•.••
Humboldt ..... . . 79 Eureka •..•..••...• Humboldt ..••••••••
Ione ......•....• 80 [one ..•..•...•••••. Amador •....•..•••

"
"
"
"
",·,
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

75
5
75 10
30 .. ... .
50
5

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"2,

75

"

;July
May

25

I:"'
0

30
74

0
l"J

40/i

30 .... . .
50 ... .. .
80 10
50
5

9

f>f>

~

15S

9
9

t1

CD

982

12

"
"
"4, "
"
1, 1855.
s, 1856.

"
"

9
9
9
9
9
9
9

aoa

50
5
50 .. ... .
50 ..... .
80 .... ..
50
5
50
3
50
5
50 ······
50 .... ..

"
"
"
"

"
"

9
9

0

JOO

l:j

73

8

48

~
· l'J

406

183
89
115

\j

403

9

57

54

Yolo .......... .. 81 Yolo ••.•.••..•.••.• Yolo •.••••••.••••••
May
,,8, 1856
,,
Vesper .........• 84 Red Bluff •••••.••.• Tehama ••..•..••..•
"
Naval
...........
87 Vallejo •.••..•.•••. Solano .•.••..•.•..••
57 Rose's Bar ...... 89 Smartsville ....•.... Yuba ••••.••..•••••
"
" "
58
"
" "
59 North Star .. .... 91 Fort ;Jones ••..•.... Siskiyou .•...• • ••••.
"
"
"
60 St. Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ••....... Napa ............ ;.
"
"
"
61 Henry Clay .... . . 95 Sutter Creek ....•..• Amador .•.•.•• • •...•
"
" 8, 1S56
"
62 Howard ......... 96 Yreka ...••••..•••. Siskiyou •..•.•.•••• May
;Jefferson . • . . . . . . 97 La Porte ••.•••..... Plumas .••••.••••••
63 Hornitos . . . . . . . . 98 Hornitos .. • ..•..... Mariposa ••..•.••.••
"
" "
64 Yosemite ........ 99 Merced •..•.••.•••• Merced •.••••..•..••
"
"
"
65
"
" "
Clay .. .....•.. . . 101 Dutch Flat •........ Placer ••..•••••••••
66 Oroville ....•... . 103 Oroville •.•••.•..... Butte ••...•.•••••••
"
" "
67 Lexington ....... 104 El Monte •...•..••. Los Angeles ••••..••
"
"15, "
"
6S Arcata •.....•... 106 Arcata •..•••••..•.. Humboldt ••••••.•••
"
69 Pajaro •.. . .•.... 110 Watsonville •...••.. Santa Cruz . . ...... . May 14, 1857.
70
"
"
"
Chico . ...... .... 111 Chico .... •• ..•..•.• Butte ••••..••••••••
"
71 Summit ... .'..... 112 Knight's Ferry ••••• Stanislaus ...•••••••
"
"
"
72
"
"
"
73 Eden .......•.... 113 San Leandro • • • • • . . Alameda •....•• ·••••
"
"
15,
74 Concord ......... 117 Sacramento ••••.... Sacramento •.••••••
"
"
Clinton ........• . 119 Igo ........·......... Shasta ••••••••••••• May 13, 1858.
is Fidelity
.. . ... .. . 120 San Prancisco • • • • • . San Francisco ••••••
76
"
" "
77 Alamo .. ·. · · ·. · .122 Walnut Creek •••••. Contra Costa •••••••
"
"
"
Sotoyome
.......
123 Healdsburg .•••• •..• Sonoma ...•.•••••••
78
"
" "
Table
Mountain
...
124
Cherokee
.•••••..•.•
Butte
•.....••••••••
79
"
"
"
80 La Fayette ....•. 126 Sebastopol ...•.•••• Sonoma ..••••••••••
"
"
"
Hermann
.•.•..•.
127
San
Franciseo
•.••••
San
Franci&Co
••••••
81
"
"
82 Visalia ......•... 128 Visalia • • • • • • • • • • • • • Tulare ••...•••••••• May 14, 1859.
83 Nicolau~ ........ 129 Wheatland ••.•.• ••. Yuba ............. .
13,
"
"
84 ~ood~ndge ••.... 131 Woodbridge ••••••.• San ;Joaquin ······~
"
"
"
Smcenty .... . ... 132 Greenville . . . . . . • • . Plumas ••••••••..••
"
"
"
85 Vacaville .... • ... 134 Vacaville •..•..•••. Solano ............ .
"
"ll, 1S60.
"
86 Va1Iey .......... 135 Linden • • • . • • • • • • • • • San ;Joaquin •••••••
May
87 Paci.fie .. ....•... 136 San Francisco • • • . • • San Francisco
May 10, 1860.
8g Crockett ..•...... 139 San Francisco. . • . . • . San Frane.Ueo
55

56

"

"

"

"

35

5

30

1

60 ..... .
60
1
30
6
36
5
50 ..... .
60 ..... .
50
5
40
l
3
1
1,

g
9
9
g
9
9
9
9

567
. 44
45

15

172

9.
12

I:l

~

101
53
97

29
46

5
2~

12;

158

10

9
9

166
49

121
9

652

50

5
5
l

12

20

12

8
60 .5
30 ..... .
5()
6

9
9

100

20

9
9
9
9
9
9
9

105

5

12

30 .... .,
30 ..•.••

z

107
164
169
295

12i
9.

ti

~

60

249

t1

s
t1

0

l"1
0

39

111

232
61
160
217

".!

~

~
~

~

212
8a

103
110
142

54
757

620

0\

"

103

Redwood City ... 168 Redwood City •••••• San Mateo •..•..••.

104 Mission .. . . ; . ... 169 San Francisco .••••. San Francisco ..•..•
105 Elk Grove ...... . 173 Elk Grove ••••..••.• Sacramento •.•..•.•
106 Drytown ....... . 174 Plymouth .......... Amador •...••••.• • •
107 Antioch ......... 175 Antioch ....•.•.••.• Contra Costa •.••••.
108 Phoenix ........ . 178 San Bernardino ••.•. San Bernardino •.•..
109 Mendocino ...... 179 Mendocino •.•••.••.• Mendocino •...•.•.•
110 P etaluma .... .... 180 Petaluma . •••.•••..• Sonoma •..••.••.•••
111 Russian River ... 181 Windsor ...••.•• , .• Sonoma •.....•••.••
112 Arbuckle ........ 182 Arbuckle . . . . . . . . . . Colusa .••.....••.•.
113 Clear Lake ...... 18"3 Lower Lake •.••..•• Lake •...•..•..•..•
114 Sierra Valley .... 184 Sierraville ...••..•• Sierra ... ·• ·. • ·•. ·•...•
115 Claiborne .... .... 185 Point Arena ..••...• Mendocino •.••• • •.•
116 Evening Star .... 186 Etna Mills .•••..•.• Siskiyou ..•..•..•.•

"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

11,

"
"

"
"
"
"
1867.

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

15,

1868.

"
10,
"

"
"

117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129

Keith ........... 187 Gilroy .•.••.•..•.•• Santa Clara ...•• • •• Oct.
Oakland ...... .. . 188 Oakland ••••.•••... Alameda .....••••••
"
Northern Light ... 190 Millville •.•••••..•• Shasta ••....•••.••• Oct.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael •..•••.•• Marin • • ....•....••
"
Santa Barbara .. . . 192 Santa Barbara ••••• Santa Barbara •.•. .
"
Ferndale ... . . .. . 193 Ferndale •...••••••• Humboldt ••.•..••.• Oct.
Mountain View ... 194 Mountain View ... .. Santa Clara ...•••••
"
Buckeye ...•.... 195 Winters ........... Yolo . ·•.•.....••..••
"
San Simeon ...... 196 Cambria . •..•. ..• ... San Luis Obispo ... .
"
Wilmington ..... 198 Wilmington .....••. Los Angeles ••.....• Oct.
R'artley .......... 199 Lakeport ......•.•. Lake ..•..••...•.. .
"
Truckee ......... 200 Truckee ...•.••.•... Nevada •........•••
"
Silveyvill~ ....... 201 Dixon •.........••• Solano .•...,. ••....•
130 Pentalpha . ....... 202 Los Angeles ....••.. Los Angeles .•...•••
"
"
131 Confidence· ....... 203 Castroville .•••.•••• Monterey ......•.• •
"
132 Salinas .... ...... 204 Salinas ••••. • ...... Monterey ......••• •
"
133 Olivet .. .......... 205 Corning •........... Tehama ............ .
134 Stanislaus ...... . 206 Modesto. . •.•....... Stanislaus •...•••.•• Oct.
135 Anaheim. . ....... 207 Anaheim •.•........ Orange •....•.....••
"
"
136 Rio Vista ......... 208 Rio Vista .. ......... Solano .....•...•.•.• •• •
137 King David's ..... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo ....•
"
138 Friendship ........ 210 San Jose ..•••••. •• . San ta Cl~ra ••...••.
"
Oct.
139 San Benito ..... ... 211 Hollister .........•• San Benito .. • .•...•
"
140 So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •.••.•
"
141 San Buenaventura.214 Ventura ..••..... • . . Ventura •••...••.•.•
"
142 Oak Grove ·: . ..... 215 Alameda . ..•••••• •.• Alameda •.. .·.· • .•••. •
"
143 Doric ........•. ..... 216 San Francisco ••.••. San Francisco •..••••
144 Monterey ...... .. 217 Monterey •••••. .•. • Monterey •.•..•••.•
"
"
145 Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore .. .. ...... Alameda ......•...•
146 Speranza Italiana. 219 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco .....• Oct.
"
147 Downey ....· ..... 220 Downey ......... .•. Los Angeles •.•••..•
"
148 Inyo . ..... .. .... 221 Independence ....... Inyo .........
"
149 Roseville .... ... . 222 Rocklin .........•.. Placer ......•..•... Oct.
150 Bakersfield ...... 224 Bakersfield . ... ...•• Kem .............. .
Oct.
151 BroQ~J!L .-...•... 225 East Oakland •••••.. Alameda ....•...• -. •
"
152 San Mateo ...•... 226 San Mateo ••.•..... San Mateo •.•.•.•• "'
"
153 Athens .......... 228 Davis ••••••.•..... Yolo ..••...•....•••
r

" "
" "
13, 1865.
"
"
12, 1865.

•••••

"

'' "
15, 1868.
,, ''
,, ''
14, 1869.
,, "
" ''

'' ''
14, 1869.
"
"
,,'' ''''
,, ''
'' ''

"14, 1870.
"
" "
" "
'' "
'' ''
14, 1871.
.

,,

''

"
,,''
''
''

"
""
''
,,

11,

1872.

"
,,
,,

12,
18,

,,
,,''

,,"
''
1912.
1873.

''
"
,,

1
50
100
5
50 10
50
5
50
5
55
3
50
5
50
5
30
I
50
1
30 .... ..
30 ... .. .
30 ..... .
30 .... ..

12
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

194
940

12

61
38

!)

50 .. l• 9
80 30 12
35 .3
9
80 .... .. 12
50 .... :. 15
50 ..... .
9
50 ..... .
9

50

5

50

5

30 ., .. :.

30 .. ....

60 . 5
60
5

50 20
4-0 .. : ...
50

50
50.......
50
50
I

50 ..... .
50 ..... .

0
'-':!
"3

78

28

~

153
392
151

281
110
72
28

33

165
827
:81
324

265
116

153
88
51

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12

651
28
201
123
259

g

2~4

9
80 . 1 24
50 ......
9
30
1 12
50 ..... . 12
50 ..... .
9
80 .. 1
9
100 10 12
80
5
9
.50 ...... 12
80 10 12
30 .. ....
9
9
50
1
50 2~
9
75 .... .. 12
55 ..... .
9

t/l

106
130
119
88

72

23!:1

0

~

~

s
t1
0

i:'J

0
".I
(')

310
117

>

532

z
....
>

260
210
590
127

t;

~

105
305
109

75
220

18

406
557
191

9

93

°'
;:;:

167
168
169
170
171
172

Laurel ........•. 245 Willows ......•.•..• Glenn ••.•.•.......•
Pomona ......... 246 Pomona , •••..•.••.• Los Angeles •...•...
Fresno . • ........ 247 Fresno ••••••••••••• 1'resno •••••••.••.•.
Alturas .••.•..... 248 Alturas •.•••••••• ; • Modoc .•.•. , . , ••••.
Adin . • ........•. 250 Adin ...•••••.•••.• Modoc .•.•.•.•.•..•
Landmark ..•.... 253 Esp:uto •.•••.••••. Yolo ............. .
).73
174 Reail.ing ......... 254 Redding ••.•.•...•• Shasta .•...••.•.•••
175 Wekome . • ...... 255 Lemoore ••.••.•.•.. Kings .•.•••..••••.
176 Lodi ... ......... 256 Lodi ••...•••••••.• San Joaquin •..• • ...
177 Penrhyn ....•••.. 258 Penryn •.•.•••...•. Placer .•...•.•.•••.
178 Evergreen . , ..... 259\Riverside ..•••.•..• Riverside ...•.•.••.
179 King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco ••.•• San Francisco •.•••.
180 Tuscan .......... 261 Williams ••.•.•.•...• Colusa .•.•••.•..•••

181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
2t:l
214
215
216

Lompoc .....•.•. 262 Lompoc ...•.•••.•.• Santa Barbara ....•
Hesperian ....... 264 Santa Maria ••••••.. Santa Barbara ..•.•
Orland .......... 265 Orland ••••....•••.• Glenn .•••••••.•••• ,
North East ...... 266 Fort Bidwell •.•••.• Modoc •.•.•....•..•
Galt ............. 267 Galt ..•..•.•••..... Sacramento
Durant .......... 268 Berkeley ••••••..... Alameda
Olive Branch ..... 269 Tulare .........•••• Tulare
Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford •....•.• Colusa •...........•
Pasadena . ..... . . 272 Pasadena
Los Angeles ... •••..
Anchor . ......... 273 Compton ... ... .••.• Los Angeles .......•
~royo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande •.... San Luis Obispo •...•
Oakdale ........ . 275 Oakdale •.... . .....• tanislaus •.. . .•.•.•
S elma . . ......... 277 Selma
Fresno ..
Southern Calif ....278 Los Angeles •..•...• Los Ani:eles ••••••••
Hanford •.•...•.. 279 Hanford •........•. Kings ••••.•..•..•••
Mader11· .......... 280 Madera ..•..•..•.•• Madera .•.........•
Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson
Shasta •..•.••......
Qallayomi ....... . 282 Middletown .....•.. Lake ...............
South West ... . .. 283 National City ...... San Diego . . .•..•..•
San Miguel .. .. .. 285 San Miguel •.....•• San Luis .Obispo ..••.
Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles ...... ~ . San Luis Obispo ....•
Winnedumah .... 287 Bishop ....••...•... Inyo ......•......••
Maxwell •........ 288 Maxwell •.........• Colusa ........ • ... •
Elsinore ..... ... . 289 Elsinore •..•.......• Riverside
East Gate ....... 290 Los Angeles .......• Los Angeles .....•••
Santa Paula ... ... 291 Santa Paula ••..•.•• Ventura .........• •
Loil Gatos . • ...... 292 Los Gatos •.••...••• Santa Clara •...•.••
Orange Grove .... 293 Or ange ........•.•.. Orange •.........••
Traver . .....•.•. 294 Kingsburg ......•.•
esno ••.........••
Mt. Jackson . . . . . 295 Guerneville ......... Sonoma ..........••
Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego •.....••.. San Diego •........ ,
Dunsmuir ........ 297 Dunsmuir ..•......• Siskiyou ..... .. ....
Liberty .......... 299 Santa Clara •..•.•.• Santa Clara ....••••
Redlands . .... ... 300 Redlands ..•....•..• San Bernardino .....
Ontario •.. .... ... 301 Ontario •....... : • •• San Bernardino •...•
Santa Lucia ...... 302 Kings' City •••••••• Monterey

........
...........
.. ...........

..........

.............
..........

''

"
Oct.

'' ''
"
"10, 1878.
'' "
" "
16, 1879
'' ''
"
"15, 1880.
"

"

''

"

Oct.

"
"

Oct.

''
"
"
"

..........

"
"

''
"
"

Oct.
Oct.

15, 1881.
12, 1882.

"
"
"
"
Oct.

11,

Oct.

"
"
"
............ Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

..........

..

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"

"
"

1883.

50
5 18
9
50
3
9
80
3
40
1
9
30 ......
9
30
I
9
50
8 12
50 .... ..
!I
50 ..... .
9
30
3
9
9
50 ......
80 15 12
50 ...... 12

174
354
469

50
1
50
l
llO
2
I)
30
30 ......
60 10
50 ......
1
50 ······
50 ······
ao 6
!)0
1
3
30
100 16
60 ......

139 .
225
117
50
58
654
190
45
518
87
67
0
97
;i:1
199
>
z
691
t1
190
t"
133
64
Cl
41
l'J
174
0
"l
87
(")
77
>
154
t"
8•
:ij
76
0
~
903
z
....
216
>
153
173
103
1211
600
149
210
290
181
80 ' l

"
"
so
16, 1884.
"16, 1884.
"
"
"
"
"16, 1885.
"
"
" "
3
60
" "
.
.....
30
" "
14, 1886,
so ......
1
50
" "
so 10
"
"
DO
3
" "
50 ······
"11, 1888.
"
30 ......
30 ......
"
"
80 25
"
"
IJO ......
" "
50 ......
"
"IO, 1889.
30
l
30 .. ......
" "
so I)
"
"
.......
" "
I 80
50 ... ...
"
"
50
" "
50 ......
" "
50 ..... .
" "
" "
40, ......

9
1%
12

9
9

9
10
9

9
9
9

9
9
9
1;l

Ill
9
9
9
12
9
9
9

9
9
9
9
10
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

91
44
67
151
104
228
93
384
790
69

{/l

0

'%j

....

~

g

°'"'

229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242

"
"

Sanger ........... 316 Sanger ...•..•..•.. Fresno ............ .
Fallbrook ........ 317 Fallbrook •.•......• San Diego •.........
Emmanuel ••.... . 318 Biggs .......••..... Butte .•.......•....
Hollenbeck •.•... 319 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles •.......
South Gate ..•... 320 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles •..•....
Alisa! ....•...... 321 Pleasanton •........ Alameda ........... .
Alhambra ....... . 322 Alhambra •.....••.. Los Angeles ....... .
Whittier ......... 323 Whittier • . • • . • . . . . Los Angeles ...•....
Corona ....•..... 324Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ...•...•
Consuelo ...•... • . 325 Escondido ......•... San Diego •.........
N eedles ....•...•. 326 Needles ....••...... San Bernardino .....
Long Beach .• ..... 327 Long Beach •••••.•. Los Angeles ...•...•
Redondo .•.....•. 328 Redondo ....••.•... Los Angeles •..•..•.
Vallee de France .. 329 Los Angeles ._ •.••••.. Los Angeles ..•••...

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

"
"

"

11,

1894.

''

"

" "
" "
11. 1895.
" "
" "
13, 1896.
" "
15, 1897.
'' ''

"

Oct.

''

243 Kilauea .......... 330 Hilo ......•...... • . Hawaiian Ter.••••.•
Oct.
244 Pacific Grove . . ... 331 Pacific Grove ..••... Monterey ...••.•..•
,,15, 1897
.,
245· San Pedro •..••.. 332 San Pedro •• , .•••... Los Angeles •••••..•
"
,,
''
"
246 Alta ........•.... 333 Bridgeport ......... Mono •....•.....•••
247 Covina .......... 334 Covina ...• • .•.• • •.. Los Angeles ....... .
"
'' ''
14, 1898.
248 West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles ..•..••• Oct.
Oct.
14, 1899.
249 Fruitvale ........ 336 Oakland ....•...... Alameda ....••..•.•
''
250 Carquinez •....... 337 Crockett ........... Contra Costa ..... . .
''· ''
''
251 San Jacinto ...... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ....•.....
"
252 Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton ..••..•... Orange •....•..... ~ Oct.
11, 1900.
253 Oxnard .......... 341 Oxnard ............ Ventura .....••...• Oct.
10, 1901.
254 San Fernando .... 343 Fernando ..•....... Los Angeles •.....•• Oct.
15, 1902.
255 Starr King ....... 344 San Francisco •..... San Francisco .•••.•
,, ''
"
256 Brentwood ....... 345 Brentwood •.••...•. Contra Costa .••....
,, ''
"
257 Palo Alto . ...... 346 Palo Alto •.•..••.•. Santa Clara .......•
''
"
258 McKinley ........ 347 Richmond ..•.•..••. Contra Costa •..•..•
"
259 San Bernardino .. . 348 San Bernardino •... San Bernardino •..••
",, ''''
"
260 Sequoia .......... 349 Oakland ........•.. Alameda ...••..•.••
261 Palestine ........ 351 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles •..•.•••
"
''16, 1903
"
Oct.
262 Sunset ........... 352 Los Angeles •.••.... Los Angele11 ••••...•
'' ,,
"
263 Pinole ........... 353 Pinole ............. Contra Costa ...... .
264 Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco •..... San Francisco
"
,,'' ''''
"
265 Hollywood .... . .. 355 Hollywood •........ Los Angeles ....••.•
''
266 Mill Valley •..... 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin ...•..•.....•
"
''
"
267 I!uena Park ...... 357 Buena Park ........ Orange •.......••••
"
268 Golden Gate ...... 358 Los Angeles •••..•.. Los Angeles .•.•..••
''13, 1904.
''
269 Loyalton ... . .... . 359 Loyalton ...•...•.•. Sierra •.. . ....•••••• Oct.
''
"
270 San Francisco .... 360 San Francisco •...•. San Francisco ••...•
,, ''
"
271 Fort Bragg ...... 361 Fort Bragg ...•..••. Mendocino •..•...••
''
"
272 Charity ......... . 362 Campbell ...•.••••.. Santa Clara ....... .
"
273 Berkeley ......... 363 Berkeley ........... Alameda ...••.•••.•
'' ''
274 Willits ........... 365 Willits ............ Mendocino ••..•...•
"
''
''
12,
275 Las Palmas ...... 366 Fresno ......••..... Fresno ............. Oct.
,, 1905.
,,
"
276 South Pasadena ... 367 South Pasadena .... Los Angeles •.••••.•
,,
"
277 Unity ........•.. 368 Glendare •..•....... Los Angeles ....... .
"
278 Ocean Park ...... 369 Ocean Park .....•.. Los Angeles ••••••••
'' "
"
279 Amity •.......... 370 San Francisco .•.... San Francisco ••••••

,,
,,

"
"

,,

,,
,,

,,

,,

"

,,
''

,,
,,
,,

50 ..... .
30
5
35
5
80 10
100 15
35 .. .. ;.
50 ... : ..
30
3
50
8
30 .. ....
50
1
80 ..... .
50 ..... .
55 12

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12

50 ... ...
50 ···· ··
75 " ····
. 53 .. ~ . . .
30 .. .. ..
80 20
55 .. ....
50 ......

12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9

40 ......

9

107

0

~

48

67
1297
786
97

Ul

0

'cl

~30

~

279
455
132
186
531
207
114

192
81
367
25
190
585
579
130
147
375
243
115
452
111
322
271
355
837
430
574
121
483
693
304

75 ...... 12
50
1
9
50 .. ....
9
100 10 12
50 ...... 12
55 4~
9
55 ......
9
55
5
9
55
1
9
80 ......
9
50 ......
9
50 .... .. 12
75 15 12
80 10
9
80 .. ... . 12
30 .. ....
9
1!5
80 .. .. ..
9
759
50 .. .. ..
9
33
75 ...... 12
358
50
5
9
82
30 ...... 9 109
55
5
9
544
50 . 1
9
116
80
3
9.
463
50 ..... .
9
229
50
3
9
339
50 .... ..
9
261
100
5 12
466

tc.l

~

z

t::i

t"'
0

t1

Q

tc.l
0

'cl
("}

~

~

:0

z

>

~
.....

...........

293 El Centro ...••... 384 El ·c entro .•..•...••. Imperial
294 Dinuba .......... 385 Dinuba ...•......... Tulare .•.••••••••••
295 Coalinga •........ 387 Coalinga ......••... Fresno ........•••••
296 . Parnassus ........ 388 San Francisco ......• San Francisco •..••••
297 Palos Verdes .... . 389 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles ...••••••
298 Imperial ...... : .. 390 Imperial .....•..••. Imperial •.•..••..••
299 East Belt ........ 391 Tuolumne ..•...••.. Tuolumne .••..•..••
300 West Lake . ...... 392 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .•.••.••
301 Balder . . ......... 393 San Franeiseo ....... San Franeisco ...••••
302 University ....... 394 Los Angeles ..•...... Los Angeles ..•.••.••
303 Turloek .......... 395 Turloek ..•......... Stanislaus
304 Apollo . , •........ 396 Alameda ........•.. Alameda .•...•..••.
305 Rising Light ...... 397 Huntington Park .••• Los Angeles ••.•...•.•

··········

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"1908

"

15,

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

..

"

"

"
"
"
"

306 Fraternity ....... 399 San .Jose ........•..
15, 1908
307 Burlingame ..... .400 Burlingame .....•.. Santa Clara •.•....• Oct.
308 Bay View .. . .... .401 Oakland .....••.... San Mateo ....••...
"
" "
Alameda .•........• Oct.
14, 1909.
309 Brawley ...... . .. 402 Brawley ...........
Imperial
..........•
310 Yerba Buena ..... 403 Oakland. ..........•.
"
"
311 Glendora .....••. .404 Glendora ........... Alameda .......•...
"
"
"
Los
Angeles
312 Moneta ......... .405 Los Angeles ........
"
" "
Los
Angeles
......•
313 Burbank . ..••.... 406 Burbank .....•.....
"
"14, 1909.
"
314 La Mesa ........ . 407 La Mesa ............ Los Angeles ..•.... Oct.
San
Diego
..........
Oct.
13, 1910.
315 Sierra Madre .... .408 Sierra Madre .•....•.
Los Angeles .....•.•
316 Honolulu . ....... .409 Honolulu
"
"
"
317 Charter Rock .... 410 Berkeley .....•.... . Rawi.ii
"
" "
Alameda ...........
318 Perris .......•.. .411 Perris
"
"
"
319 Calexico .•.•. . ... 412 Calexico ..•......•. Riverside
"
"
"
Imperial
•.•.•..••.•
320 Waucoba .•...•.. 413 Big Pine ...........
"
" "
321 Arlington .••..... 414 Los Angeles .....•.. Inyo ........•......
"
" "
Los
Angeles
....•...
322 Silver Trowel. ... .415 Los
"
"
"
Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...•....
323 Lindsay •.•.•.•.. 416 Lindsay
"
"
"
Tulare .............
324 Clovis .......... .417
"
"
"
Clovis . ........•.. • . Fresno .............
325 Elysian .......... 418 Los Angeles ........
"
" I"t ·
Los Angeles ...•.•..
326 Upland .......... 419 Upland
"
"11, 1911.
327 Kerman .......... 420 Kerman.. .•.••....... San Bernardino ....• Oct.
328 Inglewood ....••. .421 Inglewood ..••....... Fresno ...•.••••.•...
" "
"
Los Angeles •.••..• •
329 Eagle Rock ..... .422
" "
"
Eagle Bock ••.••.... Los Angeles .•.•••••.
330 York .•..•....... 423 Watts ••..•.....•...
"
" "
12, 1912.
331 Exeter •.••....... 424 Exeter •..•........ Los Angeles ••.••••• Oct.
Tulare
.
........•..•
332 Holtville ......... 425
"
" "
Holtville ........•...
333 Midway ........ .426 l'aft ... . ..•..•••••. Imperial ...•....•.•
"
"
"
Kern
.......
.
......
334 Chino Valley . . ... 427 Chino ..• . ......... .
"
" "
335 San Dimas ...•... 428 San Dimas •......•. San Bernardino ..•••
"
"
"
336 Pittsburg ....... .429 Pittsburg .......... Los Angeles ........
" "
337 Mc Cloud ......... 430 McCJoud ............ Contra Costa ......•
"
"
"
338 Alpha ......... . .431 Richmond .......... Siskiyou ...........
" ." "
Contra Costa .......

"

··········
·············

············
··········

···········

············

"

"

"

"

50 10
40 ......
100 ......
80 10
50 ......
50 10
50
5
80 ......
80 10
100 ......
40 ......
so 1
100 ......

12
12
12
12
9
12
9
9
12
9
12
9
9

~
Ul

6
1
4
,2
9

0
'%J

~l1J

1
0
504
,g
2
3

50 ......

9
284
65
12
282
50
1
9
327
5
50
9 . 113
55 25 12
349
30 ......
9
80
50 ......
475
9
50 ······
9
107
50
3
9
80
50 .....
9
75
243
50 10 12
5
9
80
522
3 10
83
30
132
50 · 3 12
42
30 ······ ......
9
221
50 ······
233
9
50 ......
9
96
50 ......
9
50 ......
107
9
5
368
50
3
9
92
50
9
66
35 ······
157
3
9
50
9
i9
50 ......
ao ······ 9 103
!'j() ......
10
108
50 ......
9
86
9
100 ......
2\10
9
50 ......
55
9
35 ......
f\9
50
1 12
82
50 ······
9
68
55 ······
9
362

......

~

z>
t:I
t'
0
t:I
0
l1J
0
'>J
C'.l

~
.....

'>J
0
~

z

.....

>

C\

'l
'O

351 Wilshire ........ . 445 Los Angeles ....... Los Angeles ....... .
352 · La Puente ...... .446 Puente ............ Los Angeles .. . .... .
353 Torrance ........ 447 Torrance ..........• Los Angeles ....... .
354 Mt. Diablo ...... 448 Concord ........... Contra Costa ..•...•
355 . Park .....••••... 449 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
356 Van Nuys ....... 450 Van Nuys ....... ... Los Angeles ....... .
357 Montebello ...... 451 Montebello ......... Los .Angeles ....... .
358 San Pasqual ..... 452 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ... .... .
359 Bethlehem ..... .. 453 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ..... . .
360 Crocker .......... 454 Daly City . ...... . ... San Mateo .... : .... .
361 Golden West •.. ... 455 San Francisco ... . ... San Francisco ......•
362 Kennett ......... 456 Kennett ........ ... Shasta ......... ... .
363 Ramona ...••. ... 457 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ....... .
364 Henry S. Orme .... 458 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ....... .

265 Riverbank ....... 459 Riverbank •...••... Stanislaus . .. .......
366 Mount Oso ....... 460 Tracy .. ......•.... San Joaquin ........
367 Argonaut ........ 461 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•.....
368 Paul Revere ..... 462 San Francisco ... ... San Francisco .......
369 Morgan Hill ..... 463 Morgan Hill . ....•.. Santa Clara ..... ...
370 .Alta Vista ...... .464 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•.....
371 Center .•• •.• .... 465 Fresno .... ..•..... . Fresno
372 Libertas .... ..... 466 Bakersfield ......... Kern
373 Culver City .... . . 467 Culver City ......... Los .Angeles ....•...
374 Rockridge · ..••.. . 468 Oakland ........... Alameda ...........
375 Yorba Linda .... .469 Yorba Linda .... ..•. Orange ........•. • .
376 Lincoln .•........ 470 San Francisco ....... Sa·n Francis·co ......
377 Delta .. ... ...... .471 Stockton ........... San Joaquin .......
378 Maui ............ 472 Kahului ..•........ . Hawaiian Ter. . . . ..
379 Blythe . .• " ....... 473 Blythe ... ....•.... .. San Bernardino .....
380 Victory .. ..•..... 474 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
381 America ........ .475 Los Angeles .••..... Los Angeles ••...•..
382 Coachella ........ 476 Coachella .......... Riverside .. ........
383 Temblor .•....... 477 Fellows .. ; ......•.. Kern ......•.....•..
384 Thousand Oaks .. . 478 Berkeley ...•....... Alameda ...........
385 Golden Rule ..... 479 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ........
386 Fellowship ....... 480 Oakland ............ Alameda ...........
387 Mt. Davidson .... 481 San Francisco .•..... San Francisco ......
388 · Clarence F. Smith. 482 Los Angeles •.•..•.. Los Angeles ........
389 Bell ....•.•..... .483 Bell ..•.. ..•••...••. Los Angeles ........
390 Albert Pike ..... . 484 Los Angeles ...... .. Los Angeles ........
391 Chowchilla .•..... 485 Chowchilla •........ Madera ..........•.
392 Caledonia ..... .. 486 Bakersfield ....•.... Kern ...............
393 Vallejo ..•.•.•.. .487 Vallejo ........ . .... Solano .....•.......
394 Patterson ........ 488 Patterson ...•..•... Stanislaus •.•.•....•
395 East Bay ....... .489 South Berkeley ..... Alameda •.•..•....•
396 Corcoran ......... 490 Corcoran •....•••••• Kings ......•••. •· ••
397 Woodstock ....... 491 Alameda ......•.•.. Alameda ........•..
398 Garvanza .•...... 492 Los Angeles .• •..•.• . Los Angeles ..•..••.
399 Atascadera ...... 493 Atascadera •.•..•••• San Luis Obispo .....
400 Acorn ...••...••. 494 Oakland •••..••..•• Alameda •..•.•..•••

''

''

''
''
''
"
''''

Oct.

,, ''
'' .,,
'' ''
"
''
''
''
,,

''
''
''
''''

,,
''
''
''
''

14,

1915.

,,
''
"

''

Oct.
Oct.

22, 1915
12, 1916

"

"
"
."

"
············ Oct.
..............
"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.

"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

''

"

"

(<

"

''

''
''

''

"
"

"
"

"
" 1917.
"
"
"10, 1918.
"
"
"
"
"
"16, 1919.
"
"
14, 1920.

11,

H

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

40
1
50 .. .. ..
50. 5
80 10
50
3

12
9
9
12
9

...... ....... ······

69
100
93
386
117
107

50 10
80 10
50
5
80 ' 10
50 ......
50 ......
80 ······

12
12
12
12
9
9
9

165

50 ......
6
50
80 ..... :
5
100
50 . 1
105 ......
80 ......
80 ......
50 ······
50 10
50 ......
80 10
50 ......

9
12
12
12
9
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9

5
75
80 . 10
50 ......
50

9
12
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
9
IJ
9
12
9
9
12
9

68
123
211
484
37
184
174
138
92
199
75
168
185
110
57
141
134
48
115
98
63
65
87
69
49
68
34
58
114
41
79
43
62
39
28
55

.... ......

......
100 ......

5
55
75 ······
1
55
80
55 .....
70
ti
50
1
50
80 ......
80 10
70
2
55
75 10
80
l
50 ······
lOo 25
55 10

......
.
......

......

...

287
133
422

s
t1

~Ul
0
'%J

~

54

112

411:1

Q
::0

>

z

t1
t'
0
t1

§
0
'1J
0

;....
t'
.....

'1J
0

::0

z
~

°'.....

00

411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419

Silver Cord ....... 505 Santa .Ana .......... Orange . .......... . .
Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles .....•... Los Angeles .... . ... .
El Segundo ....... 507 El Segundo ......... Los Angeles .. . ..... .
Joppa . ......... . 508 San Joaquin. ·.... ... Fresno ............•
Benj. Franklin .... 509 Los Angeles .•....... Los Angeles ........ ·.
Cupertino .. . ..•.. 510 Cupertino .......... Santa Clara ........ .
Sunnyvale ....... 511 Sunnyvale . ......... Santa Clara ........ .
Palms ... .• ...... 512 Palms . . ............ Los Angeles ........ .
Cahuenga ........ 513 Los Angeles ......... L os Angeles ........ .

EXTINCT
No.
4
4
6
7
7
11
15

28
29
31
34
36
39
47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
67
69

Naroe.

Location.

County.

''
"
"

"
"

.'''
"

"

"
"
"
'' "
" "
" "

"
"

"
"

"
"

80 5
50 5
35 ·· ····
80 30
50 ······
50 ... ...
70 4~
8010

9
9
9
9
9
9
9

29
38
21
36
27
28
21
!1
26
85,181

8t;:J
r:n
0

':j

8

::i:

t;:J

LODGES.
Chartered.

!Became Extinct

Remarks.

Berryman ..•..... Sacramento ...•... Sacramento .•.•.. April 19, 1850 .............. Name changed to Jennings.
.Jennings ......•.• Sacramento ..•... Sacramento .•. •. .••••.•.•• : .... May
6, 1856 Charter surrendered.
Sutter ........... Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...••. May 7, 1850 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Davy Crockett ..•. San Francisco .... San Francisco .•.. Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 18, 1852 Name changed to San Francisco.
San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .. . . Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
Willamette ....... Portland ........ Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
0:i:i
Oregon.
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
>
La Fayette ..•.... \La Fayette, Ore .. \ •.•......•••..•.. \May 9, 1851 \Nov.,
Oregon.
~
t<
Nashville ....••.. ,Nashville ..•.•. • 1 El Dora.do •••••.• ,Dee. 24, 1851·1· •.•.....•.... Charter never issued.
Pitcific .•.....•.. Valparaiso .....• Chili ••......•... May 5, 1853• .•••..•....... Charter never i11sued.
o
Columbia •....•.. Columbia •...... Tuolumne ...•.•. May 5, 1853 Oct.
15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. ti
8 and Mt. .Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
0
18, 1873 Surrendered.
':z:j
Diamond ...•.•... ,Diamond Springs. ,El Dorado .•...• · 1May 5, 1853 \Oct.
Mokelumne ...... Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras ••..... May 5, 1853 Oct.
13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
0
No. 78.
~
15, 1887 Revoked.
.....
Santa Clara ...... ·1Santa Clara ...••. ,Santa Clara ..... ·1May 5, 1853 IOct.
Butte ..•......... Bidwell ......... Butte •....•..... May 3, 1854 Sept.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
Yuba .••........ Marysville •••••• Yuba ••...••.••• May 3, 1854 June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No. :i:i
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
~
Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ••. Placer •.••..•.•. May 3, 1854 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
>
Grass Valley ...... Grass Valley ..... Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Lebanon .....•.. San Francisco .... San Francisco .... May 3, 1854 .June 29, 1857 Revoked.
Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada .......•. May 3, 1854 Nov.
1864 Surrendered.
Franklin ......•.. Sacramento •.... Sacramento ..•... May 3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
Saint .James ...... Jamestown ...•.. Tuolumne •...... May 2, 1855 Feb.
20, 1857 Surrendered.
Geo. Washington • Chinese Camp .... Tuolumne ••...•·• May 8, 1856 Sept. 15, 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
29, 1857 Surrendered.
Iowa Hill ..•..••. Iowa Hill ........ Placer •••••••••. May 3, 1855 Oct.
Minnesota .....•. Minnesota •..... . Sierra ..•.•.•.•.. May 2, 1855 May 14, 1859 Surrendered.
Ind. Royal Arch .. Marysville ...... Yuba •....•••••• May 2, 1855 May
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No. &l
69.
w

fil

6

92

Ac11-eia .......... Coloma . ~ ....... El Dorado ...•... May

93

Caymus .......... Yountville ..•..• rNapa •••..•.•... May

94 Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown .... Plumas .......... · 1May
98 Quartzburg ..... , . Quartzburg ...... Mariposa ........ May
99 La ~range ....... Merced .....•... Merced .••..•..• May
100 Campo Seco ..•. , . . Campo Seco ..•.... Calaveras ....... May
102
105

Manzanita .....•. North San .Juan .. Nevada ...•...... May
Siskiyou ......... Henley .•.•...... Siskiyou ........ May

107 Mount Jefferson ... Garrotte ..... ..... Tuolumne ......• May

108

Owen •••••••••••• 'S cott's Bar .....•• Siskiyou .....•..• May 14, 1857 Oct.

109 Dibble ..••••••••• Omega .....•.••• Nevada ........• May
114 Mt. Zion ........ Grizzly Flat ••••• El Dorado ••••••• May
115 Saint Mark's ..... Fiddletown ....•• Amador .....•... May
116 Windsor ••••••••• Windsor
Sierra •.....•.•... May
Folsom
Folsom ..•..•••.• Sacramento ...... Feb.
May
118 Vallecito
Vallecito .•..•••• Calaveras
May
121 Ionic ...•.•..•••• Iowa Hill ..•.••.• Placer
125 Progress .....•••• San Francisco . ..• San Francisco ....
130 Unity .....•••••• San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May
133 Yosemite .•.••••• Coulterville ...... Mariposa ..•...•• May

..........
........

........

·······
..........

I

137 Oro Fino ......... Oro Fino ......... !Siskiyou ........ May
138 Violet ........... Spanish Flat ..•.. El Dorado ....... May
142 Colusa ....••.•••• Colusa .......... Colusa .......... May
148 San Luis Obispo •.• San Luis Obispo .. San Luis Obispo .. May
151 Palmyra .....•••• Placerville ....... El Dorado ....... May
Josephus ......••• Brush Creek ..... : Butte ..•........ May
Rising Sun ...•••• Brandy City ..... Sierra .......... May
Carson ........••• Carson City ...... Nevada Ter .....• May
Mount Carmf)l. .•.• Red Dog ......... Nevada ......... May
Washoe .......... Washoe City ..... Nevada Ter ...•.. May
Gibsonville •...•• Gibsonville ...... Sierra .. ........• May
Gilroy .....•••••• Gilroy ...•.•...• Santa Clara ...... May
Pilot Hill . ......•• Pilot Hill ........ El Dorado ......• May
Virginia City .•••• Virginia City..... Nevada Te......... May
Silver City ..••.•• Silver City ....... Nevada Ter ...... May
Silver Star ...•••• Gold Hill . ....... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Esmeralda
Aurora .......... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Virginia City .... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Escurial
Austin .......... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Lander
Alpine ..•..•••••• Markleeville
Alpine ... . ...... May
175 Claiborne •••••••• Antioch ......... Contra Costa ..... Oct.
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171
172

8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 8
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
~
8, 1856 \Oct.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to l".l
St. Helena.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
~ 1856 Dec.
~ 1856 .....•........ Name changed to Hornitas.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
~ 1856 Oct.
Oct.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
~~
No. 78.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
8, 1856 loct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
15, 1856 Oct.
No. 37.
14, 1857 \Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8.

.......
.........
..........

....

15, 1908 Consolidated with North Star
No. 91.
14, 1857 Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
14, 1857 Oct.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26.
14, 1857 June 26, 1894 Revoked.
14, 1857 May 18, 1861 Surrendered .
14, 1857• Jan.
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
13, 1858 Jan.
5, 1859 Surrendered .
13, 1858 Oct.
8, 1905 Surrendered.
1858 Oct.
14, 1870 Revoked.
13, 1859 May 13, 1863 Revoked.
13, 1859 Oct. ' 16, 1913 Consolidated with La GrangelNo. 99,
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
10, 1860 June,
1862 Surrendered.
10, 1860 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
10, 1860 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.
16, 1861 Dec.
2, 1865 Surrendered.
16, 1862 Oct.
10, 1911 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 . Oct.
15, 1862 July
16, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872 Surrendered.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of NevadR.
14. 1863 Jan.
15, 1908 Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97.
14; 1863 Oct.
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864\Surrendered.
14, 1863 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
14, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan.
13, 1864 Jan . 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan . 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1865 Tran sf erred to Jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1864 Jan.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
25, 1864• Oct.
12, 1865 . ..•....•..... Name changed to Antioch.

0

~

z

t:J

t'
0

t:J

i;l

l".l
0
':tJ

(")

~
.....

':tJ
0
~

z
.....

>

°'

00

<J1

251
252

Brotherhood ..... Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma ... •. .... Oct.
Bodie •..... • ..•• Bodie ... . ....... Mono .... .. ..... Oct.

IO, 1878 April
IO, 1878 Dec.

257

Arizona ..•..•.••• IPhoenix . . .. . •.. IArizona Ter • . .. . . IOct.

16, 1879 IMch.

19 1888 Surrendered.
20; 1918 Consolidated with Winneduma h
No: 287.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of

Solomon ..•••..•• ITomb.,tone ...... !Arizona Ter ... . .. !June

4, I881 *,Mch.

25, 1882 Tran~ferred to jurisdiction of

263

Tucson .........• ITucson .•....... !Arizona Ter ...... IOct.

I5, I88I 1Mch.

25, 1882 Tran~ferred to jurisdiction of

270
276
284
298
311

Fall River .•..••. Burgettville .... . jShasta .... . . . . . . Oct. 11, I883 Oct.
Westport .•...... Westport .. : . . . .. [Mendocino . . ..... Oct. I6, I884 May
Tyrian .•.•••.••.• Dunnigan .... .. .. Yolo ..........•. Oct. I4, 1886 Oct.
Mokelumne Hill •• Mokelumne Hill .• Calaveras .. . •• . . Oct. 16, 1890 Dec.
Hueneme . . ...•. • ,Hueneme ..•....• Ventura .. ...•..• Oct. 12, 1892 Oct.

340 Santa Maria .••••• lf!anto. Maria ... • .. ,Santa Barbara ... . ,Oct.
342 Manila .. .... , .... !Manila .•.••••••. Philippine Islands Oct.
350

Cavite •••...••.•• lcavite •• ••• •• : •. !Philippine IslandslOct.

364

Newville No. 205 .• !Corning

•••••••• ,Tehama

•..••••• ,Oct.

l".l

Arizona . .

11, I900 /Oct.
IO, 190I Dec.

Ariz one..
Ari zone..

10, 1895 Revoked.
26, 1888 f?urrendered.
11, 1911 Coni>olidated with Woodland N o.156
25, 1919 Consolida t ed with Calaver a s No. 78.
16, 1902 Consolidat ed with Oxnard No. 341.

13, I910 Consolidated with Hesl)flrian No. 264.
19, I9I2 Transf erred to jurisdiction of

Philippine Islands.
15, 1903 Dec.

19, I912 Transferred to jurisdiction of

Philippine Islands.

Corregidor •.••.•. !Manila ..• • .••. .!Philippine IslandslOct.

I3, 1904 ••••••••.••••• Consolidated with Newville No.
205, a'J Olivet No. 205.
10, 1907 Dec.
19, I9I2 Transferred to jurisdiction of

398
432

Fowler . .... . .... .,Fowler •. • ....... ,Fresno . . .• • .• • . ·/Oct.
Granite No. 222 •.. Rocklin . . ....... Placer .. ... .. . .. Oct.

I5, 1908 ,0ct.
11, 1872 May

438

Germania ••••..•. ILo.'J Angeles •.•..ILo.~ .Angeles •... ./Oct.
*Date of Dispensation.

o-3

~

I6, 1913 IOct.

Philippine Islands.
I4, 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 277.
29, 19I9 Consolidated with Roseville No.
432, as Roseville No. 222.
IO, 1918 Name changed to Acacia.

~

>
Z
ti
t"'

0

ti

~
0
"1

~

:ij
0
::0

z

>

~

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

688

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

M.·. W.·. GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Year
Elected.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

1850 •Jonathan D. Stevenson .. . •John A. Tutt ..••.••• •Caleb Fenner.
1851 •John A. Tutt ............ . •Benjamin D. Hyam .• *E. F. W. Ellis.
1852 •Benjamin D. Hyam ...•.• •Charles M. Radclltr .• •Adolphus Hollub.
1853 •Charles M. Radclltr . • . . .. •Townsend A. Thomas •John R . Crandall.
1854 •William H. Howard . . ... •Nathaniel G. Curtis .• •Rector E. Cole.
1855 •William H. Howard ....• •Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Raymond.
1856 •William H. Howard ...•. •John A Raymond ..•.. •Lemuel Lyon.
1857 •Nathaniel G. Curtis •.. ...• •Charles Marsh •..••.• •Aaron D. Park.
1858 •Nathaniel G. Curtis . ..••. •Philip W. Shepheard. •William McCormick.
1859 •Nathaniel G. Curtis . .•••. •Philip W. Shepheard. •Ebenezer Lane.
1860 •Nathaniel G. Curtis . . • ..• •Philip w. Shepheard. •William c. Belcher.
1861 •James L. English .. • •. ••• •William c. Belcher .. •John W. Hal1/'llle.
1862 •William C. Belcher ...•.• •Gilbert B. Claiborne. . •John W . Harville.
1863 •William C. Belcher . . . .•• •Gilbert B. Claiborne. • •Louis Cohn.
1864 •William C. Belcher • . ..•• •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •William A. Davies.
1865 •Gilbert B. Claiborne . . ••• •William A. Daviee ... •Isaac S. Titus.
1866 •Gilbert B. Claiborne . •.• . .•Henry H . Hartley ...• •wm. H. Peterson .
1867 •WllJlam A. Davies . . . . . . . •Henry H. Hartley .... "Thomas Beck.
1868 •Charles Marsh .•....•.••. •Leonidas E. Pratt. .•• •Theodore G. CockrllL
1869 •Leonidas E. Pratt ...•.•.• •Isaac S. Titus .•.•.•. . •John S. Ward.
1870 •Leonidas E. Pratt .• •..•.• *Isaac S. Titus ....... . •Charles L . Wiggin.
1871 •Leonidas E. Pratt •...••.. *Charles L . Wiggin .. . •Benj. H. Freeman.
1872 •Leonidas E. Pratt•.....•• •Benj. H . Freeman . . .
George C. Perkins.
1873 •Isaac S. Titus ...•.•.... . George C. Perkins .. . •John M. Browne ..
George C. Perkins .. ... . ,. •John M. Browne ...•. •William B. Parker.
1874
1875 •John M. Browne . ... . ••.• •Charles L. Wiggin .•. •Wiley J . Tinnin.
1876 •John M. Browne . .• .• ..•. "Charles L. Wiggin . . • •William S. Wells.
1877 •John M. Browne . ... • .•.. •Charles L. Wiggin .•• •Wlllla m W. Traylor.
1878 •John M. Browne . ....... . •William W. Traylor . . •Wiiliam H. Crane.
1879 •William W. Traylor ... . •• •Samuel C. Denson . . .. *Clay W . Taylor.
1880 •Samuel C. Denson . . . .. • . *Clay W . Taylor ..•... •John Q. Adams.
1881 •Clay W . Taylor •.• •..• . •• •John Q. Adams ... .• . •Jonathan D. Hines.
1882 •clay W. T a ylor .••.•..•.. •Jonathan D. Hines .•. •Edm und C. Atkinson.
1883 •Jonathan D. Hines .. • ... •Wiley J. Tinnin . .• . .• •Edmund C. Atkinson.
1884 •Jonathan D. Hines . .•..• •Wiley J . Tinnin . .. ... *Edmund c .. Atkinson.
1885 *Wiley J. Tinnin . . .. . •. ••. •Edmund C. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
1886 •Edmund C. Atkinson . . .• . *Hiram N . Rucker. ~ .. •Mor ris M. Estee.
1887 *Hiram N . Rucker .• • ..... •Morris M. Estee .... . •Alvah R. Conklin.
1888 •Morris M. Estee .•..... • . •Alvah R. Conklin ... . •William Johnston
1889 •Morris M. Estee .... . ... . •William Johnston . • •• •Charles R. Gritman.
1890 *Alvah R . Conklin . .•..• • •. •William Johnston .• ; . •Charles R. Gritman.
1891 *William Johnston ....... . •Charles Ray Gritman. •Henry S. Orme.
1892 •Charles R. Gritman .... . •Henry S. Orme ..•.... •James B. Stevens.
1893 •Henry S. Orme ... .• ..... • •Ja mes B. Stevens ...• •Edward M. Preston.
1894 •James B. Stevens ... . ... . •Edward M. Preston .• William T. Luca1.
lfl95 •Edward M. Preston ...• . .. William T . Lucas . . •.
Thomas Flint.

•Deceased

689

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.
Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

•Sashel Woods .•.•.••• •Levi Stowell • . ••••..•• •John H Glhon
•Benj. S. Olds ...• • . .. • *Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi St~well · · • · • · · ·
:John R . McConnell •.. *Addison Martin . ••. .. •Levi Stowell:: : : : :::::
•Richard F. Knott. .•• •Addison Martin . . . . .. •Levi Stowell .. . . ..... .
Robert N. Wood •• ••• "Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .•••.....•
0
•Samuel A. Merritt. . • "Addison Martin .• • ••• •Levi Stowell . •. ••.••••
0 Peter W. Randle .•••. *Addison Martin . ..... "Alex G. Abell. . •• . • • •
•John B. Bope. · · • · · • • *Addison Martin .• .. •. *Alex. G. Abell •.• . ..• ,
•James W. Bicknell. •• "Addison Martin ....•• *Alex G. Abell •. • •....
•Thomas P. Hawley.• *Addison Martin . ...•• *Alex G. Abell . • •• , ••
0 Alvlnza Hayward . ..• •Addison Martin ... •• • •Alex G. Abell . • • •. .• :
•Caleb E. Wilcoxon.•· •James Laldley, .•...•• *Alex G. Abell . •••.• • ,
John B. Hewson.··· · •Jo.mes Lald!ey
•AJex G Ab ll
:wmtam A. Dav ies ... •James Laldley: :: : : : :: *Alex G: Ab:ll: :::: : ::
0 Isaac S. Titus ....... . •James Laldley •. • ...•• *Alex G. Abell . .. .... .
•Henry H. Hartley.· ·· •James Laldley........ •Alex G. Abell ...•••••
•Thomas B eck · · · · · · · •James Laldley • .••. • •. *Alex G. Abell .•.• • ••
•Leonidas E . Pratt.· . · •James Laldley • . • • • •.. *Alex (}. Abell . • .. . •• :
Frederlck F. Bares.•· •James Laldley ...••••• *Alex G. Abell. . • •. • .•
0
•Richard Dale •. • .... • •James Laldley .•...••. •Alex G. Abell ....... .
Benj, H . Freeman .•• •James Laldley... . . ... •Alex G. Abell ... •. . ••
Geo. C. Perkins •••. • • •James Laldley .. .. •.•. *Alex G. Abell . .. ... .
0
/ohn M. Browne .•• • . •James Laldley, ...• ·.•. *Alex G. Abell ...•..• :
Chas. E. Mitchell .. .. •James Laldley .. ••••.. *Alex G. Abell ...••••.
0
•Wiley J. Tinnin . •• • . •.Tames Laldley .. . ..... *Alex G. Abell . ...... .
/acob H. Netr. · ·· · • · • •James Laldley .. •••.• . •Alex. G. Abell •• • ••••.
•Solon W. Craigue.· ·· •James Laldley . .. • ••.• •Alex. G. Abell .. ••••.•
Wm. H . Crane. •· ··· .. •Moses Heller ...... . .. •Alex. G. Abell • •....••
0
•Robert C. Broder.··• •Moses Heller . • .. . •.•• "Alex. G. Abell . • .. .. , .
/ohn Q. Adams . ···•• •Moses Heller . . .. . . . .. *Alex. G. Abell .. . • .. • •
•Orrin W . Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller •.. •••.• • •Alex. G. Abell .••• . .••
•Thomas J. Bowers . . • •Moses Heller . ..• .• •• • *Alex. G. Abell ..•••.••
•George Hinds • • • · • • • · •Moses Heller. • . • . . . . . •Alex. G. Abell .....•••
Hiram N . Rucker. · • . •Moses Heller • .... • ..• *Alex. G. Abell • • •.• • • •
•Hiram N . Rucker •• •• •Moses Heller .• .. •• ••. •Alex. G. Abell .. ••. • • •
•Henry H. Knapp ..• . . *Nathan W . Spauldlne. •Alex. G. Abell . .• •• • ••
*Alvah R. Conklin •• • • •Nathan W. Spa ulding. •Alex. G. Abell • ••• ..••
•wm. Johnston •• •. . •. •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .••• • ••.
'Marcus D. Boruck .. . •Nathan W . Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell .. . . . .. .
•Henry S. Orme . . .. . . *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell . • , .•.••
•Henry S. Orme . . .... •Nathan W. Spauldlne. *George Johnson. , .•. .
•James B. Stevens . . .• •Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson.,. , ..
*Edward M. Preston . • •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson .. , .. .
Wm. T. Lucas . .. • ••. *Edward Coleman .. .. . *George Johnson .. ... .
Thomas Flint • . .•. • •• •Edward Coleman .. ... •George Johnson .... . .
Frank M. Angellotti .• *Edward Coleman .. • .. •George Johnson ... .. .

•Deceased.

'

Grand
Lecturer.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTIVE G;RAND OFFICERS

690

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OJ!' THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
18TH

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION.ON THE

Year.

Grand

Maate~.

Deputy
Grand Ma1ter.
Thomas Flint. · • • • · · •

Senior
Grand Warden.
Frank M. Angellotti.

William T. Lucas ....... .
1896
Frank M. Angellotti .. Charles L. Patton.
Thomas Flint... • .. •• .... "
1897
Charles L. Patton• · .. •James A. Foshay·
Frank M. Angellotti ..... • •James A . Foshay ..... •William S. Wells.
1898
Charles L. Patton.··· ·· ··
1899
•William S. Welle .. · .. Orrin s. Henderson.
1900 •James A. Foshay··· · · · • · ·
Orrin S. Henderson.· •Charles W. Nutting.
1901 •William S. Welle.········ •Charles W. Nutting · • George W. Hunter.
1~02

Orrin s. Henderson. •· ·••

George W. Hunter.•·

Motley H. Flint.

1903 •Charles W. Nutting· · • · · • Motley H. Flint .. · ... •Edward H. Hart.
George w. Hunter ... "" •Ed ward H. Hart .. · · · George M. Perine.
1304
•Reuben H . Lloyd.
1906 Motley H. Flint. ·· ··· • •··
Geo. M. Perine· • · · · • ·
1906 •Edward H. Hart.········ •Reuben H. Lloyd.···· Oscar Lawler.
George M. Perine ..... • ..
Dana R . Weller.
1907
•w. Frank Pierce . . ··· Alonzo
J. Monroe.
Oscar Lawler .. · • .... " "
1908
Dana R. Weller.... "
1909 •W. Frank Pierce.·· ··•· ··
Alonzo J, Monroe.·•• wm. P. Filmer.
1910 Dana R . Weller" " .. " "
Wm. P. Filmer .....• John D. Murphey.
Alonzo J , Monroe.•··•·••
1911
John D. Murphey.··· Benj. F. Bledsoe.
Wm.
P.
Filmer
....
"
....
1912
Benj. F. Bledsoe.· · ·· Albert G. Burnett.
John
D.
Murphey
..
"
..
;.
1913
Albert G. Burnett · · · · Francis V. Keesling.
Benj. F . Bledsoe .. • .. ···· Francis V. Keesling· · Win. Rhodes Hervey.
1914
Albert G. Burnett.·····• Wm. Rhodes Hervey· Bradford Webster.
1915
1916 Francis V. Keesling· · · · · · Bradford Webster "• Charles A. Adams.
1917 Wm. Rhodes Hervey· · · · · Charles A. Adams .·· · George F. Rodden.
Bradford Webster.··•···· George F. Rodden .• ·· Samuel E . Burke.
1918
Charles Albert Adams . •·
1919
Samuel E . Burke. · · · William A. Sherman.
George F. Rodden.·······
1920
William
A. Sherman. Arthur S. Crlces.
1921 Samuel E. Burke.· · •·• · · ··

•Deceased.

691

Junior
Grand Warden.

DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850

Grand Treaaurer.

Grand
Secretary,

Charles L. Patton ... •Edward Coleman .•••• •George Johnson .•••..
•James A. Foshay.,. •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .••.••
•William S. Wells .••• •Edward Coleman ..•.. •George Johnson ......
Orrin S. Henderson .. •Edward Coleman ... . . •George Johnson.,,, ••
•Charles W. Nutting ..•Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ......
George W. Hunter .. . •Edward Coleman . .•.. •George Johnson.,,, ..
Motley H. Flint ..... •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... ..
•Edward H. Hart .....•Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... ..
George M. Perine ., .. •Edward Coleman ... .. •George Johnson ... .. ,
•Reuben H. Lloyd .... •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... ..
Oscar Lawler .... , .. •Edward Coleman..... •George Johnson .... ..
•w. Frank Pierce., .. •Edward Coleman.,,,, •George Johnson ..... .
Alonzo J, Monroe .... •Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher ...... ..
William P. Filmer ... •Edward Coleman ... ,
john Whlcher ...... ..
.John D. Murphey .... •Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher ....... .
Benj, F. Bledsoe .... •Edward Coleman.. ... John Whlcher ....... .
Albert G. Burnett .. . •Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher ... .. .. .
Francis V. Keesling , . Wm. P. ;Filmer. , ,,,, , John Whlcher .•••..• .
W. Rhodes Hervey., Wm. P. Filmer., . ,,,, John Whlcher ....... .
Bradford Webster . . , Wm. P. Filmer. , ... .. John Whlcb.er .•......
Chas. Albert Ada.ms. Wm. P. Filmer., .. ,.. John Whlcher ....•..•
·George F. Rodden ... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher .... ... .
Samuel E. Burke .... Wm. P . Filmer., , ,.. . John Whlcher . ..... ,.
William A. Sherman. Wm. P. Filmer.,.,, .. John Whlcher .......•
Arthur S. Crites ••••• Wm. P . Filmer.,, ,,, , John Whlcher .• .• ,,.,
David J, Reese ....... Wm. P. Filmer ... ,. .. John Whlcher ........
•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H, Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H . Edwards.
Wm. H . Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm, H. Edwards.
Thomas J, Baker.
Thomas J, Baker.
Thomas J, Baker.
Thomas J, Baker.
Thomas J . Baker.
Thomas J , Baker.
Thomas J, Baker .
Thomas J , B a ker.
Thomae J, Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J, Baker.
Thomas J, Baker.
T homae J , Baker.
Thomas J, Baker.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

692

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Abell ....... . ...... 146 Ukiah ......... . ...... . Mendocino.
Acacia. ... .... ...... <l38 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Acom ............ .494 Oakland ... .. ........... Alameda.
Adin ....... ; ... , .. 250 Adin ... .. ..... . ....... Modoc.
Alamo .... . ... ·..... 122 Walnut Creek .... . ...... Contra Costa.
Alameda . . ... ... . .. 16'i Centerville ..... . ..... ·. . Alameda.
Albert Pike . . ...... .484 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
.Akatraz ........... 244 Oakland . ............. . Alameda.
Alhambra . ..... .... 322 Alhambra .............. Loe Angeles.
AHsal ... .... ...... 321 Pleasanton ... . ........ Alsmeda~
Alpha ............. .431 Richmond ...... . ....... Contra Costa.
Alta .... . . .... ..... 333 Bridgeport ............. Mono.
Alta Vista . .. ...•... 464 San Francisco ........... San Francisc-0.
Alturas ............ 248 Alturas' ................ Modoc.
Amity .... ..... .... 370 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Amador .. .... ... . .. 65 Jackson ............... Amador.
A.rnerice. ........ . . . 475 Los Angeles ..... . ....... Los Angeles.
Anaheim ..... ...... 207 Anaheim . . •...... ... ... Orange.
Anchor .. . ......... 27'3 Compton .... . ....... .. . Los Angeles.
Antioch . . .... ·...... 175 Antioch ........ . ...... Contra Costa.
Apollo .... .. ..... .. 39ti Alameda ............... Alameda.
Arbuckle .. .... .. .. 182 Arbuckle ..... . . . . . .... .Colusa.
Arcata ... . ... ; ..... 106 Arcata ............... . . Humboldt.
Argonaut ... ... .. . .461 San Francisco ... ... . .... San Fran Cisco.
Argonne .. ..... . .. U. D. San Francisco .. . ... . . . .. San Francisco.
Arroyo ............ 27 4 Arroyo Grande . ....... .. San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ....... ... 414 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Artesia . . ..... .. ... 377 Artesia ...... ... ... . .. . Los Angeles.
Ashlar ......... . ... 306 Colton ...... .. ......... San Bernardino.
Atascadero ........ .493 Atascadero ............. San Luis Obispo.
Athens ... . ..... .. .. 228 Davis .......... . ....... Yolo.
Azusa .............. 305 Azusa ................. Los Angeles.
Bakersfield . ... .. . .. 224 Bakersfield . .. .... . . .. .. Kern.
Balder ......... . . .. 393 San Francisco ....... .. . San Francisco.
Bay View .......... .401 Oakland .... . .......... Alameda.
Bear Mountain . . .. .. 76 Angels Camp ... ......... Calaveras.
Bell ... . .......... .483 Bell ... . ... .. ...... . ... Los Angeles.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia .... ... ..... . ... Solano.
Benj. Franklin . ..... 509 Los Angeles ... ....... . .. Los Angeles.
Berkeley ...... . .... 363 Berkeley ......... ...... Alameda.
Bethlehem ... . : .. . .453 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.

Lodge.
No.
Post Ofl'lce.
County,
.
Blackmer .. .. ... .. .442 San Diego · · · · · · · · · ··· ·. · ·S an Diego
Blythe ..•.......... 473 Blythe · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·San Bern~rdino.
.
Brawley .......... .402 Brawley · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. I mperial.
Brentwood ....... . . 345 Brentwood
·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · Contra Costa
Brooklyn .. ........ 225 E~st Oakland ........... Alameda.
•
Buckeye ........... 195 Wmt.e rs ................ Yolo.
Buena Park ......... 357 Buena Park ..... . . .. .. . Orange.
Burbank ........... 406 Burbank
.
· · · · · · · · · · · • · · · L os Angeles.
Burlingame .... .. .. 400 Burhngame · · · · · · · · · · · · S an Mateo.
Cahuenga . .... .. . .. 513 Los Angeles · · · · · · · · · · · · L os Angeles
·
Caledonia .......... 486 Bakersfield ............. Kern
·.
Calexico .......... .4l2 Calexico · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. · I mperial
· .
California . . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco · · · · · · · · · · · S an Francisco
·
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . 78 San Andreas · · · · ····· ... Calaveras
·
Callayomi ....... ... 232 ·Middletown ............ Lake
Calistoga ...... . ... 233 Calistoga .... . .... .... . . Napa'.
Capital City......... 499 Sacramento · · · · · · · · · · · ··sacrarnento
'
Carpinteria ........ 444 Carpinteria · · · · · · · · · · · · · S an ta Barbara
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. · contra Costa. ·
Center ............. 465 Fresno ..... ' .......... Fresno.
Charity ............ 362 Campbell · · · · · · ··.,.··· .Santa Clara
.
Charter Rock . .... . .410 Berkeley ... ... .... .. .. . . Alameda
Chico .......... .... lll Chico ......... .. ....... Butte .
Chino Valley ....... 427 Chino . . . ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · S an B. ernardino
.
·
Claiborne ... . .. . . .. 185 Point Arena ... · · · · · · · · · · M endocino.
Claremont ....... . . 436 Claremont · · · · · · · · · · ·. · L os Angeles
'
Clay ............... lOl Dutch Flat .... .. ..... .. Placer.
Clear Lake . . ........ 183 Lower Lake ........ . .. .. L~ke.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo · · · · · · · · · · · · ···· .... Shasta
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.. Fr esno.·
.
Coachella ... . ..... .476 Coachella · · · · · · · · · · · ·.. R'iverside
Coalinga . ... . ...... 337 Coalinga ............... Tulare. .
Concord ............ 117 Sacramento. · · · · · · · · . . . . S acramento
Confidence ... ...... 203 Castroville · · · · · · · · · · · · · M onterey '
. ·
Consuelo ........... 325 Escondido · · · · · · · · · · · .. s an Diego.
Corcoran ........... 490 Corcoran ...... .. ....... Kings.
Colu.sa ... . ......... 240 Colusa . ...... . . .. ... . .. Colusa
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville .. . . .. .... ... Yuba.' .
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena · · · · · · · · · · · · · · L os Angeles
Coronado .......... 441 . Coronad-0 ...... . ....... . San Diego. ·
Covelo ........••... 23l Covelo ........ . .... . : .. Mend~cino
·
Covina ............. 334 Covina . . . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · L os Angeles
Clarence F. Smith . .. 482 Los Angeles · · · · · · · · · • · · L os A.ngeles ··
·
'
Crescent ......•.... 45 Crescent City .... · .,.... · D e1· Norte.

694

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Post Office.
County.
Lodge.
,
No.
Daly
City
...
............
San
:Mateo.
Crocker ........... .454
Crockett ....... ... . 139 San Francisco . .......... San Francisco.
Culver City ........ .467 Culver City . . ........... Los .Angeles.
Cupertino .......... 510 Cupertino .... , ......... Santa Clara.
Curti1 ... .......... 140 Cloverdale ....... .... .. Sonoma.
Chowchilla ........ .485 Chowchilla . .. . ... ... ... Riverside.
Delano ....... .... .. 309 Delano ... ....... ....... Kern.
Delta ...... .. .. . .. .471 Stockton . .... ... . ... . .. San Joaquin.
Dinuba .. . .. . .. . ... 385 Dinuba . .... ..... .. .. . . Tulare.
Doric . ,·. .. ........ ,216 San Francisco .. .... . .. .. S rm Francisco.
Downey ............ 220 Downey ....... .. ....... J,oH Angeles.
Drytown ... . ....... 174 Plymouth ... . .... . ... ··Amador.
Du.n smuir ..... .. ... 297 Dunsmuir ... · .. · .. ·. ·· ·Siskiyou.
Durant . ..... .. .... 268 Berkeley .... .. .... · .. ··Alameda.
Eagle Rock . .. ...... 422 Eagle Rock ........... · ·Los Angeles.
East Bay ... .. ...... 489 South Berkeley .. . ; .... ·Alameda.
East Belt .......... 391 Tuolumne ....... . .. . .. ·Tuolumne.
East Gate ... . ...... 290 Los Angeles ........... · .Los Angeles.
Eden . .. . ... ... .... 113 San Leandro .. .... . .... Alameda.
Eel River . ..... ... . . 147 Fortuna ........ .. . ·.· .Humboldt.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ............. · .Imperial.
Elk Grove .... ..... :in Elk Grove ...... ...... · .Sacramento.
Elsinore . .. ........ 289 Elsinore . ..... . . . . .. · ·.Riverside.
El Segundo ......... 507 El Segundo .. .. ......... Los Angeles.
Elysian ..... .... .. . 418 Los Angeles .. ... ...... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel .. ....... 318 Biggs . . ... · ... .. • . ·. ·· . Butte.
Enterprise .. ....... 70 Yuba City .............. Sutter.
Eucalyptus ......... 243 Haywards .. ............ Alameda.
Euroka ... ..... . . .. 16 Auburn ............. · .. Placer.
Evening Star . .• .... 186 Etna Mills ..... .... ... ·Siskiyou.
Evergreen ... ..... . 259 Riverside ..... .. ....... Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco . ........ . . San Francisco.
Exeter .... . . ....... 424 Exeter ·................. Tulare.
Fairmount ..... . ... 435 San Francisco ......... . . San Francisoo.
Fallbrook ....... .. . 317 Fallbrook .. .. .......... San Diego.
Fellowship .. .. .... .480 Oakland .... .. ......... Alameda.
Ferndale .... .. ... .. 193 Oakland ............... Humboldt.
Fidelity ......... . . 120 San Francisco .. . .. .. .... San Francisco.
Fillmore . .. . ..... .. 379 Fillmore ..... ....•... . ..Ventura.
Forbestown •... .... 50 Forbestown .......... .. Butte.
Forest .... .... ..... 66 Alleghany ....... . ..... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg .... . . ... .... Mendocino.
Franklin ...•.... ... 143 Courtland ... .. .. ..... . . Sacramento.
Francis Drake . . . ... 376 South San Francisco ..... San Mateo.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

695

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Fraternity ......... 399 San J o.se .... . .......... San ta Clara.
Fremont ........... 497 Oakland .... . .......... Alameda.
Fresno . ......... ... 247 Fresno ................. Fresno.
Friendship ......... 210 San Jose .. ... .. . .. ..... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale ..... ·... .. S36 Oakland .. ............. Alameda.
Fullerton .......... 339 Fullerton .. ... ......... Orange.
Galt ............... 267 Galt .. · · · · ..... · ......... Sacramento.
Gardena ........... 372 Gardena ............... Los Angeles.
Garvanza . .. .. .... .492 Los Angeles . ............ Los Angeles.
Georgetown ... ... ·. . 25 Georgetown .... .... ... . El Dorado.
Glendora .... ... .. .. 404 Glendora ............... Los Angeles.
Golden Gate. . . . . . . . 30 San Francisco ...... . . . .. San Francisco.
Golden Rule ........ 479 San Jose ... : . ... ... ... . Santa Clara.
Golden West ....... 455 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Golden State ........ 358 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Gold Hill. .. . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln ..... . .......... Placer.
Grafton .. . ..... .... 141 Grafton .... .. . . .... .. . Yolo.
Gravel Range. . . . . . . 59 Camptonville . . ....... . Yuba ..
Guadalupe ...... ... 237. Guadalupe ............. Santa Barbara.
Hammonton . ...... .433 Hammonton .. ....... .. Yuba.
Hanford ...... . .. .. 279 Hanford .. ..... ... ..... Kings.
Harbor ...... .. .... 502 Richmond .... .. ..... . .. Contra Costa.
Harmony .... ... . .. 164. Sierra City .... ....... .. Sierra.
Hartley ....... .... . 199 Lakeport . ..... . . ...... Lake.
Hawaiian .. .. ....... 21 Honolulu . . ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Henry Clay. . . . . . . . . 95 Sutter Creek ...... .. .... Amador.
Hermann ... . .. ·... .. 127 San Francisco ..... .. ... San Francisco.
Hesperian .. .. . .. ... 264 Santa Maria . ........... Santa Barbara.
Highland Park . .... . 3!'2 Los Angeles .. r .... . . ... Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry......... 236 Newman ....... . .... . .. Stanislaus.
Hiram . ............ 43 El Dorado .. . . . . .. .. .. .. El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme .... .458 Los Angeles .... . .... . .. Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck .... .. .. 319 Los Angeles ........... . Los Angeles.
Hollywood ......... 355 Hollywood . ...... ... ... Los Angeles.
Holtville .... ..... .425 Holtville . ... . .... . ...• Imperial.
Honolulu . .. .. .... . . 409 Honolulu ...... ...... .. Hawaiian Ter.
Hopa .. ... ... ...... 234 B eckwith ...... ....... . Plumas..
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos ...... ... .. , ... Mariposa.
Howard ............ 96 Yreka .... . . ... ..... . .. Siskiyou.
Humboldt ... . .. .. .. 79 Eureka ... . . ... ....... . Humboldt.
•''
Huntington Beach . . . 380 Huntington Beach ...... Orange.
Illinoistown . . . . . . . . 51 Colfax ..... . . .. ........ Placer.
Imperial ........ .. . 390 Imperial .... .. .. ..... .. Imperial.
Inglewood .. ...... .421 Inglewood .. ........ .. . Los Angeles.
Inyo ... .. ... . .. . .. . 221 Independence ...... .. .. Inyo.

696
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Ione .......... .. ... 80
Jefferson .......... 97
Janesville ....... ... 232
Jewel ........ . .... . 374
Joppa . .. .......... 508
Keith .. ..... ....... 187
Kennett .......... .456
Kerman .......... . . 420
Keystone .... . ..... 161
Kilauea .. ... .. ... .. 330
King David 's ....... 209
King Solomon's ..... 260
La Fayette ... . .... . 126
La Mesa ........... 407
Lancaster .... ...... 437
Landmark .... ..... 253
La Puente ......... .446
Las Palmas: ...... . . 366
Lassen ............. 149
Laurel .. .. ... . ..... 245
Lebanon ..... .... .. 495
le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........ 371
Lexington ..... ..... 104
Libertas ......... .. 466
Liberty ... . . . .. . . .. 299
Lincoln ............ 470
Lindsay ........... .416
Live. Oak ....... ... . 61
Lodi .. . ......... . . 256
Lompoc ....... .. . .. 262
Long Beach ....... . . 32,7
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42
Los Banos . .. ....... 312
Los Gatos ...... .... . 292
Loyalton ... . ....... 359
Madera ....... . ... . 280
Madison ...... .... . 23
Magnolia ... ... . .. . 242
Maricopa . ... . .. . . . 434
Marin ............. 191
Mariposa . ..... .... 24
Martinez . . . . . . . . . . 41
Maui .. .. . . . ..... .. 472

Post Ot'rlce.

GRAND LODGE OF CA.LIFORNIA
County.

Ione .. . ............... Amador.
Laporte .... .... ........ Plumas.
Lassen ........ ...... . .. Lassen.
San Francisco ..... ..... San Francisco.
San Joaquin ............ Fresno.
Gilroy ... .. .. . ........ . Santa Clara.
Kennett ............... Shasta.
Kerman ............... Fresno.
Milton .......... . .. .. '.Calaveras.
Hilo . ... . . . .. ..... .. . . . Hawaiian Ter.
San Luis Obispo .. .... .. San Luis Obispo.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Sebastopol . ........... :sonoma.
La Mesa .. .......... . .. San Diego.
Lancaster . •· ... . .. .. .. . Los Angeles.
Esparto ............... Yolo.
Puente ..... .... ... . ··· Los Angeles.
Fresno ............... ·Fresno.
Susanville ...... : ..... ·Lassen.
Willows ............... Glenn.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Honolulu .. .. . .. .... .. ·Hawaiian Te~.
El Monte ........ . .... ·Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Santa Clara .. · ... . .... . Santa Clara.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Lindsay · "· · · · · · · · · · · · · Tulare.
Oakland .. . .... ... .... ·Alameda.
Lodi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·San Joaquin.
Lompoc · · · · · · ······ ····Santa Barbara.
Long Beach· · · · · · · · · · · ·Los Angeles.
Los Angeles · . · · . · . · . · . ·Los Angeles.
Los Banos .. · .. ··.·· .. · ·Merced.
Los Gatos .. · . ........ · . Santa Clara.
Loyalton .............. Sierra.
Madera · ··· · ·· ··· ····· · Madera.
Grass Valley .. . ... ... .. Nevada.
Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
.Maricopa .............. Kern.
San Rafael ........ . .... Marin.
Mariposa ......... . .... Mariposa.
Martinez .............. Contra Costa.
Maui, Kahului. . . ... .... Hawaiian Ter.

Lodge.

No.

Post Otrlce.

697
County.

Maxwell ..... ...... 288 M;axwell . .. ....... , .... Colusa.
McCloud .. .... .... . 430 .M;cCloud .. ....... .... .. Siskiyou.
McKinley ........ , , 347 Richmond .............. Contra Costa.
Mendocino ....... , , 179 M;endocino .......... . .. Mendocino.
Midway .... . ...... . 426 Taf.t ....... ...... ..... Kern.
Mill Valley . .. ..... ,356 Mill Valley ..... . ....... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Mizpah .......... , .378 1;.os Angeles ............ :j:ios Angeles.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama . . ..... . ....... Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles . ....... . ... Los Angeles.
Montebello ......... 451 Montebello ............. Los Angeles.
Monrovia ..... ..... 308 Mo.n·rovia .. .. ..... . .... Los .A,ngeles.
Monterey .......••. 2l7 :M:o.nterey .............. Monterey.
Morgan Hill ........ 463 Morgan Hill .......... .. Santa Clara.
Morning Star ..... , . 68 Stockton ..... .. .. . . . .. . San Joaquin.
Mosaic ......... , . . 218 Livermore .... ....... .. Alameda.
Mot!nt Davidson .... 481 Sari Franeisco . .... .. ... San Francisco.
Mount Diablo . .. .... 448 Concord .... . .... . ..... Contra Costa.
Mount Jackeon ..... 295 Guerneville ............ Sonoma.
Mount' Moriah ...... 44 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Mount Olive ...... . . 506 Los Angeles ... .- .. , ..... Los Angeles.
Mount Oso ......... 460 Tracy ................. San Joaquin.
Mountain Shade. . . . . 18 Downieville ..... . ...... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ....... 281 Anderson .............. Shasta.
Mountain View...... 194 Mountain View ..... .. .. Santa Clara.
Natoma ........... . 64 Folsom ... ... .......... Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo ...... . ...•.... . Solano.
Needles ..... ... .... 326 Needles ..• .... .. ...... San Bernardino.
Nevada ............ 13. Nevada City . . .. .. . . .. . Nevada,
Newville .......... . 205 Pasken ta . . ............ Tehama.
Nicolaus .•........ . 129 Wheatland ........ ... . . Yuba.
North Butte .... .... 23.0 Gridley .......... . ... .. Butte.
North East ........ : 266 Fort Bid well . . ....... ... Modoc.
Northern Lighi ..... . 190 Millville . .... .... ... .. . Shasta.
North Star...... .... 91 Fort Jones .............. Siskiyou.
Norwalk ........... 315 Norwalk ...•...... , .... Los Angelee.
Oakdale ........... . 275 Oakdale .. . ......... . . . Stanislaus.
Oak Grove • . . .. ... . . 215 Alameda .. .. ..... ...... Alan:ieda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland . ...... ... : . ... Alameda.
Occidental . . . . . . . . . 22 San Francisco .. . .. .. .. . San Ftancisto.
Ocean Park ......... 369 Oe,ea.npark ........... , ,Los Angeles.
Oceanside ..•....... 381 Ocean.side .............. San Diego.
Olive Branch .. , ... . 269 Tulare •. . .. . . . . . . . ... .. Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ................ Te.hama.

698

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Post Otflce.
County.
Lodge.
No.
Ontario . ... ........ 361 Ontario ....... . ........ San Bernardino.
Ophir .............. 33 Murphy's .............. Calaveras.
Orange Grove". ...... 293 Orange .' ............... Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Orland . .......... .,265 Orland .......... ·...... Glenn.
Orosi .... ........... 383 Orosi .................. Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ... . ........... Butte.
Oxnard ........ . ... 341 Oxnard ...... . ... . ..... Ventura.
Pacific . .. . .. . ...... 136 San Francisco . . . ...... : San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ...... . 331 Pacific Grove . . : . .... . .. Monterey.
Pajaro .. . .......... 110 Watsonville . . .. . ....... Santa Cruz.
Palestine .... . .. . ... 351 Los Angeles . .. .... . .... Los Angeles.
Palms .... . ... .. ... 512 Palms ...... . .......... Los Angeles.
Palmyra . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Placerville ............. El Dorado.
Palo Alto ........ . .. 346 Palo Alto ......... . ..... Sar.ta Clara.
Palos Verde.s ........ 389 Long Beach ............ Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union ...... 17 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
·Park ............. .449 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Parnassus ... . ...... 388 San Francisco ..... . .... San Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena ..... . ........ Los Angeles.
Paso Robles . .. .... . 286 Paso Robles ... .. .. . ..... San Luis Obispo.
Patterson .. . . .. . .. .488 Patterson . . .. . . . ....... Stanislaus.
Paul Revere ........ 462 San Francisco .. .... . .. . San Francisco.
Penrhyn . .. ...... . . 258 Penryn .. . . . .......... .Placer.
Pentalpha .. . ... . . .. 202 Los Angeles . . · · . · . . ... ·Los Angeles.
P erris . .......... . .411 Perris · · ... · · · · · .... ···Riverside.
Petaluma . . ........ 180 Petaluma . . ............ Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ......... San Bernardino.
Pinole ............. 353 Pinole ... . .•........... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .. ........ 429 Pittsburg ..... · · · ..... ·Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Quincy .... . . . · · · ... · .. Plumas.
Point ... . .. . ....... 503 Richmond ............. contra Costa.
Pomona . .. ......... 246 Pomona ..... · .. ·· .... · . Los Angeles.
Porterville .. . . . .... 303 Porterville .... . ........ Tulare.
Presidio . . ........ . 354 San Francisco ..... .. . .. San Francisco.
Ramona .. . . . . ... . . 457 Alhambra ... · · · · · ... . .. Los Angeles.
Reading ...... . ..... 254 Redding ... . ........... Shasta.
Redlands .. . ........ 300 Redlands .....•........ San Bernardino.
Redondo ........... 328 Redondo ....... . ....... Los Angeles.
Redwood City . ...... 168 Redwood City .... • ....... San Mateo.
Reedley ............ 304 Reedley ...... . ....... ,Fresno.
Richmond .......... 375 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Rio Vista ...... : .... 208 Rio Vista ...... . .........Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park . ....... Los Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

69<)

Lodge.
No.
Post Ofl'ice.
County.
Riverbank .... . .. . . 459 Riverbank ............. Stanislaus.
Riverdale .......... 496 Riverdale ............... Fresno.
Rockridge ......... .468 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Roosevelt .......... 500 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Rose's Bar . . . . . . . . . 89 Smartsville ............ Yuba.
Roseville ........... 222 Roseville .............. Placer.
Russian River ....... 181 Windsor ............... Sonoma.
Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Saint Helena . . . . . . . 93 St. Helena .. ............ Napa.
Saint John's . . ...... 37 Yreka .... . ............ Siskiyou.
Salinas ..... . ...... 204 Salinas . .. . . . . ..... . ... Monterey.
San Benito .... . .. .. 211 Hollister ... . ... . .. . ... San Benito.
San Buenaventura . . . 214 Ventura ............... Ventura.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego .............. San Diego.
San Dimas ......... .428 San Dimas .............. Los Angeles.
Sanger ............. 316 Sanger ................ Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino ......... San Bernardino.
San Fernando ....... 343 Fernando .............. Los,. Angeles.
San Francisco ....... 360 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
San Jacinto ......... 338 San Jacinto ............ Riverside.
San Joaquin. . . . . . . . 19 Stockton . . ............ San Joaquin.
San Jose . ...... . . ... 10 San Jose .... .. ..... . ... Santa Clara.
San Mateo . . . . . ..... 226 San Mateo . . .. . .. .. . .. .. San Mateo.
San Miguel .. .. . . ... 285 San Miguel .... . . . . .. . .. San Luis Obispo.
San Pasqual . . ... . . . 452 Pasadena .............. Los Angeles.
San Pedro .......... 332 · San Pedro .. . ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana .......... 241 Santa Ana ...........•.. Orange.
Santa Barbara ... , .. 192 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . 38 Santa Cruz ............. Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ........ 302 Kings City ............. Montei;ey.
Santa Monica ....... 307 Santa Monica ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ......... 291 Santa Paula ............ Ventura.
Santa Rosa ......... 57 Santa Rosa ............. Sonoma.
San Simeon .. ...... . 196 Cambria ............... San Luis Obispo.
Schofield .. . . . . . .... 443 Schofield, Barracks .. .... Hawaiian Ter.
Seaside .. . .. . . . . . . . 504 Long Beach ... . . ... .... Los Angeles.
Selma . . ..... . ..... 277 Selma ................. Fresno.
Sequoia .......•.... 349 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Sierra Madre ....... 408 Sierra Madre .......... .Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ....... 184 Sierraville ............. Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon ................. Solano.
Silver. Cord ......... 505 Santa Ana .............. Orange.
Silver Gate ......... 296 San Diego ............. San Diego.
Silver Trowel. ...... 415 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.

700

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Post Otrlce.
County.
Lodge.
No.,
Sincerity ........ . . 132 Green ville . .. .......... Plumas.
Sisson ........... . . 310 Sisson ................. Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain . . ... 271 Stony Ford ...... . . ... .. . Colusa.
Solano .... . . ..... .. 229 Vallejo .. ...............Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg ..........•. Sonoma.
Sou.thern California . . 278 Los Angeles ..... · . · . · · · Los Angeles.
South Gate.......... 320 Los Angeles ... .. · . · · · · ·Los Angeles.
South Pasadena ... . _. 367 South Pasadena. · · · · · · · ·Los Angeles.
South San Francisco. 212 San Prancisco ... · · . · · · ·San Francisco.
South West ..•..... . 283 National City . ... · ·. · · · ·San Diego.
Speranza Italian a ... 219 San Francisco ...... · · · ·San Francisco.
Standard .... . . . ... . .440 Oakland ... ... · · · · · · · · ·Alameda.
Stanislaus .......... 206 Modesto . . · . . · . · · · · · · · ·Stanislaus.
Starr King...... .... 344 San Francisco ... . . · · · · · San Francisco.
Stockton ........... 498 Stockton ........ ··· · ··San Joaquin.
Suisun .... . .... .... 55 Suisun ... · · . · · · · · · · · · · ·Solano.
Summit ... . . .. .... . 112 Knights Ferry . . . · · · · · · ·Stanislaus.
Sunnyvale .. . ... ... 511 Sunnyvale .. · . . ···· · · ··Santa Clara.
Sunset .......... . . . 352 Los Angeles ..... · ··· · ·· ·Los Angele1.
Surprise Valley . . ... 235 Cedarville .. · . . · · · · · · · · Modoc.
Table Mountain .... . 124 Cherokee . . . . . · . · · · · · · · ·Butte.
Tehachapi .... .. ... :am Tehachapi ..... · · · · · · · ·Kern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento ..... · .. · · · ·Sacramento.
Teme.scal . . ....... .. 314 Corona ...... · · · · · · · · · ·Riverside.
Temblor .. .. . ..... . 477 Fellows .. ...... · · · · · · · ·Kern.
Temple ·.. . ... . ..... 14 Sonoma . .. ..... · · · · · · · ·Sonoma.
Texas ..... . . . ...... 46 San Juan ...... . .. . . . ·· · San Benito.
Thousand Oaks .. .. .478 Berkeley ............ · . Alameda.
Torrance .......... .447 Torrance ... .. ...... .. · ·Los Angeles.
Traver •............ 294 Kingsburg .... .. .. ·····Fresno.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville ..... · .. ····Trinity.
Truckee ..... . ...... 200 Truckee .............. ·Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora ... . .... . .. .. . . · Tuolumne.
Turlock ............ 395 'l'urlock . . ... . .. . .... . · · Stanislau~.
Tuscan ...... . . .... 261 Williams ... . . . . .. .. · · ·Colusa.
Tyrian . . ... .... ... .439 Manteca ....... . . ..... ·San Joaquin.
Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Sacramento ...... ... . .. Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale .............. ·Los Angele&
University ..... . .. . 394 Los Angeles . ..... .. . . . . Los Angeles.
Upland .. .. . . .. . ... 419 Upland ... ... . . ..... . .. San Bernardino.
Vacaville .. .......· . 134 Vacaville . .. . ... .· ...... Solano.
Vallee de France . ... 329 Los Angeles ...... .. .. .. Los Angeles.
Vallejo ..... .. .... . 487 Vallejo . . . .. .. .. . . ..... Solano.
Valley .... .. ...... . 135 Linden .......... . . . .. • San Joaquin.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
Van Nuys .......... 450 Van Nuys . .. ........... Los Angeles.
Vesper . .. .. . ..... . . 84 Red Bluff . .. .... .... . .. . Tehama.
Veteran .... . .. .. . .. 373 Sawtelle .... . .. .. . . .. .. Los Angeles.
Victory . . ... . ...... 474 San Francisco . .. ....... San Francisco.
Visalia ..... ... . .... 128 Visalia .... . .' . .. . .... .. •rulare.
Vitruvius ..... .... . 145 Bloomfield ... . .. ........ Sonoma.
Volcano . . ... .. ..... 56 Volcano· ................Amador.
Washiugton .. . .... . 20 Sacramento .. . ...... ... Sacramento.
Waucoba . . .. . . .... 413 Big Pine .. , ... .. ..... . . Inyo.
Welcome . ... ... . . . . 255 Lemoore ..... ... . ..... . Kings.
Western Star . . . . . . . 2 Shasta : ..... ..... .... . Shasta.
West Gate .. . ..... .. 335 Los Angeles .. .... ...... Los Angeles.
West Lake : ....... . 392 Los Angeles . ........... Los Angeles.
Westwood ... .. .. . . . 501 West wood . .. . . . . . .. ... Lasseu.
Whittier .. . ........ 323 Whittier ... . . . ... .. . . .. Los Angeles.
Willits . ...... ... . .. 365 Willits .... .. .... ... ... Mendocino.
Wilmington . .... .. . 198 Wilmington . ... . .... . .. Los Angeles.
Wilshire ........... 445 Los Angeles .. . .. ....... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah .. . . . .. 287 Bishop ............ .... Inyo.
Woodbridge . .. . . ... 131 Woodbridge ... .. ..... . . San Jaaquin.
Woodland . .. ....... 156 Woodland .. .. .. . . ... .. Yolo.
Woodstock ........ .491 Alameda ............... Alameda.
Yerba Buena ... . .... 403 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Yolo ......... , ..... 81 Yolo . .. . .. .. ..... ... .. Yolo.
Yorba Linda ... .... 469 Yorba Linda .. .. . .. .... Orange.
York . ... .. .... .. . .423 Watts . .. . . . ... .. ... . . .. Los Angeles.
Yosemite . . ......... 99 Merced ..... .. ... . . ... . Me~ced.
'
Yount .. . .. . . ... ... 12 Napa . . . ....... .. . . .. .. Napa.

701

LOCAT lON OF LOD GES

702

Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES
Alphabetically Arranged
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Adin ..... .. .... .. ..........•• Adin ......................... 250
Alhambra ...... . .............. Alhambra; ..... ... ............. 322
''
. . ................... Ramona .......... .... ........ . 457
Alameda ...................... Oak Grove ............... · .... 215
''
.. •.................... Apollo ........................ 396
"
.................... , . Woodstock ...... . ............ .491
Alleghany . , . . , ................ Forest ......... . ... . . · · · · · · · · · 66
Alturas ......... .... .......... Alturas .............. · · .. . · · · · 248
Anaheim ...................... Anaheim ................... · · · 207
Anderson ................... , . Mount Shasta ............ · · · · · · 281
Angels Camp .................. Bear Mountain . · ... · · · · · · · · · • • 76
Antioch ....................... Antioch . ... .. · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · .175
Arroyo Grande ................ Arroyo ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .274
Auburn ..... .................. Eureka ......... · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · 16
Arbuckle ...... ............ , .. . Arbuckle .......... · · · · · · · · · · .182
Arcata .......... . ........... . Arcata . .. ... . . · . · · · · · · · · · · · · .106
Artesia ....................... Artesia ....... · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · 377
Atascadero .................... Atascadero ..... ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · .493
Azusa . . ..................... , Azusa ..... · · · · · · · ' · · · · · · · · · · · 305
Bakersfield . , .............. , .. , Bakersfield . . · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · 224
''
...... . ........... , .. Libertas .... .. ......... · . · · · · · 466
...... .. ......... , , . :Caledonia .......... ·. · · · · · · · · .486
"
Beckwith ..................... Hope .. · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·:::

~:~i~f~ . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~:~ic;~ . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 2685

Ber~eley : : : : : : : : : : .: : : : : : : : : : : : ~~;::lte; · : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : !~!
•• • • • • • . • • • . • • . • • . • • • , Thousand Oaks .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
410
''
...................... Charter Rock .... · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Big Pine . .. , ............. .. ... 'Wlaucoba . . , ................•.• 413
318
Biggs ......................... Emmanuel .... · ... · · · · · · · · · · · ·
287
. h op •. • • •. • • •. • : ... . •, • • . • • • Winnedumah .. . . . .. · . · · · · · · · · · 145
B lS
Bloomfield .................... Vitruvius .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Blythe ... . .................... Blythe ... ..................... 473
402
Brawley ... . ........... .. ..... Brawley .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Brentwood .................... Brentwood . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 345
333
Bridgeport ......... . .......... Alta . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Buena Park ........... . ....... Buena Park ........ ' .......... 357
'1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

703

Lodge.

No.

Burbank .......... . ........... .Burbank .......... . .. . .. . ..... 406
Burlingame ... . ............... Burlingame ........... ·........ 400
Calexico ............. . ........ Calexico .... . ................. 412
Calistoga. ......... ......... ... Calistoga .............. . ...... 233
Cambria ............ .. ........ San Simeon ........... . .. . .... 196
Campbell ........ .. ........... Charity ....................... 362
Camptonville ..... ·............. Gravel Range .......... . . . ..... 59
Carpinteria ............... . .... Carpinteria ................... 444
Castroville .......... . ......... Confidence ..... ...... ......... 203
Cedarville ......... . ........... Surprise Valley .. . .... . ... .. ... 235
Centerville ................. ... Alameda .................. .. . . 167
Cherokee ...... .. .... .. . .. . . .. Table Mountain ........... . ... 124
Chico ......... . .. . ............ Chico · ..... ........ .......... .. 111
Chino .................. .. . .... Chino Valley .................. 427
·Chowchilla ... , ......... .... ... Chowchilla .................... 485
Claremont ........... . ......... Claremont ..................... 436
Cloverdale ........... .... ..... Curtis ........................ 140
Clovis ..................... .. . Clovis .................. .. .... 417
Coachella ......... .... ....... . Coachella ........ . ..... ....... 476
Coalinga .............. ..... . .. Coalinga ......... ... . . ....... . 387
Colfax . ...... .... . . .......... , Illinoistown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Corcoran ..................... Corcoran ...................... 490
Corona ..... ... ........... ... .. Temescal ...................... 314
Courtland ..................... Franklin ......... . •.. . .. . .... 143
Covelo .. . .... ... . ..... .. ...... Covelo .......•................ 231
Colusa ........................ Colusa .... . .......... . . . ...... 240
Colton ......... . ... .. ... .. .... Ashlar ............... ...... ... 306
Covina ........... . ........... Covina ....................... 334
Compton .. . ........ ... ........ Anchor .................... .. . 273
Concord ...................... Mt. Diablo .................... 448
Corning ............. . ..... ... . Olivet ............... . ........ 364
Coronado ...•.......... . .. ... .. Coronado .............. . ...... 441
Crescent City ............... .. . Crescent ...................... 45
Crockett ......... ....... ..... . Oarquinez ............... ..... 337
Culver City ..... .... ... .. ...... Culver City ................... 467
Cupertino ..................... Cupertino ..................... 510
Daly City . ·....•............. , . Crocker .. .. .................. .454
Davis ...... .• ....... . .... .... . Athens ........................ 228
Delano ...... ·................. Delano .......•.•....•.•...... 309
Dinuba .....•.•..... . ........• Dinuba ................... ... .. 385
Dixon ............ . .......... , Silveyville ................ .... 201
Downey .....•. , .. ............. Downey ............ .. .... . .... 220
Downieville ....•............•• Mountain Shade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Dutch Flat ....... , .......... , • Clay .......................... 101

704
Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES
Lodge.

No.

Dunsmuir ...................•.. Dunsmuir ................. ..... 297
Eagle Rock .......... .. ........ Eagle Rock ................... 422
Elk Grove ............ : ....... Elk Grove ...... .... .... . ...... 173
Elsinore ............... , ....... Elsinore ........... ....... .... 289
El Centro ....... ...... ... .. ..• El Centro ...... . ..... . . . ...... 384
El Dorado .................. . . Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
El Monte ..................... Lexington ..................... 104
El Segundo .................... El Segunuo .... . ......... ... ... 507
Escondido . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... Consuelo. . ........ .. .... . ...... 325
Eeparto .......... . ............ Landmark ..... ........ ....... 253
Etna Mills .. . ..... ... ... . ...... Evening Star ......... . ........ 186
Eureka ... ...... . . .. . .· .. ... .... Humboldt .... .. ... . ...... . .... 7f,
Exeter . .. .. . , .......... . ...•.. Exeter ....................... 424
Fallbrook ..................... Fallbrook .... .. ............... 317
Fellows ....................... Temblor ....................... 477
Fernando ........ ... ........... San Fernando .... . ... .. .. . .... 343
Fe.rndale ...... .... ............Ferndale ......... . ............ 193
Fillmore . . ...... ... ........... Fillmore ..... ... ........... . . . 379
Forbestown ' .... . ...... . ....... Forbestown . . ................. 50
Folsom ...................... .. Natoma . ..... ..... .. . .. . . . .... 64
Fort Bidwell ..... . .. ... ....... North East ..... . .. ... ... ..... 266
Fort Bragg .................... Fort Bragg ................... 361
Fort Jones ...... . ............. North Star .................... 91
Fortuna . .. ........ . ....... : .. _.Eel River ................ .. .. . . 147
Fresno .. .. ...... .. . ..... ... . .. Fresno ..................... . . 247
''
.. ... ... ............ . .... Las Palmas . . ... ............ .. 366
''
...... . .. . . . .. . .. . ... .. . Center· ...... ..... ....... .. .... 465
Fullerton ........ . . ... ........ Fullerton ...... ...... .......... 339
Galt ........ . ..... .... ........ Galt .. ........... . . . .. .. ...... 267
Gardena ...................... Gardena· ....................... 372
Georgetown ................... Georgetown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Gilroy ................. . .. ..... Keith ...................... . . 187
Glendale .. .. . ... .. . ......... . . Unity ........ . .. . ......... ... 368
Glendora ...... . .. ... ... .. .. .. . Glendora . .... ..... .. . ........ . . 404
Grafton . .. . .... . ...... . ......• Grafton ................. . . . . ... 141
Grass Valley . ......... .. ...... Madison ...... .. .............. 23
Greenville .... ... .... .. ....... Sincerity ....... . ...... . ....... 132
Gridley ........ .. ............. North Butte .................. 230
Guadalupe ..................... Guadalupe .... ........ ......... 237
Guerneville ..... ..... ... . ...... Mount Jackson ... . . ......... . . 295
Hammonton ..... . ............. Hammonton ......... .... ... . .. 433
Hanford ...... . .. . . .......... . Hanford ...... . ...... . ..... . .. 279
Haywards . . ..... : ....... . ... . . Eucalyptus ............... . ... . 243
Healdsburg ......... .. . . ...... Sotoy_ome ..... . ............... 123

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

705

Lodge.

No.

Hilo, T. H ... .. ... : ............. Kilauea ................ ". ...... 330
Hornitos ...................... Hornitos .. . ............ ... .... 98
Hollister ...... ... ...... : ... .. . San Benito ... . ..... . .. .... .... 211
Hollywood . . .. . . .......... . .. . Hollywood ..... . ....... .. . .... 355
Holtville ............ . .. .... ... Holtville . ..... ................ 425
Honolulu, T. H ................. Hawaiian ...................... 21
................ le Progres de l 'Oceanie ......... 371
"
........... . . : .. Honolulu ...................... 409
"
Huntington Beach ........... . . Huntington Beach ..... .... .... 380
Huntington Park ......... ..... Rising .Light ..... .. ........... 397
Igo ....... . .... .. ...... ... .... Clinton ......... ...... .. . . .... 119
Imperial .. ......... ... ........ Imperial ...... ... . ............ 390
Independence . .............. . .. Inyo ... .. . . ................... 221
Inglewood .................... Inglewood ..... . ..... '. ........ 421
Ione ......... . ................ Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jackson ..... .. .... . ........... Amador . ... ... ..... .... ...... 65
Kahului, T. H ... . .... .... .. . ... Maui ..................... . .. .472
Kennett ................. ·...... Kennett .. . .................. .456
Kerman: . ... ........... . . .. ... Kerman .. ........... . ......... 420
Kingsburg .. . ... .. . ... ... . ...• Traver . . . .......... . . . . .... ... 294
King City ...... ... . . ......... ..Santa Lucia .... .. .... . ..... ... 302
Knights Ferry .... . ............. Summit .............. . . ....... 112
Lakeport . . ... ....... ...... .. ... Hartley ............ ... ....... 199
La Mesa ........ .. .......•..... La Mesa . ..............•..... .407
Lancaster .. .. . .... . ..... .... .. Lancaster ........... . ......... 437
Laporte .. . .. .......... .. . . .... J efl'erson ..... ·............. -. . . . 97
Lassen .. .. ....... . ............ J ane~ville ..................... 232
Lemoore .... . ................. Welcome ................ . ... .. 255
Lincoln .. . ................. ... Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Linden ........................ Valley .. .... .................. 135
Lindsay ............... . ...... Lindsay ................... . .. 416
Livermore .... . ......... . ...... Mosaic . . .............. ... ..... 218
Lodi .. .. .. ..... ..... .. . .. ..... Lodi ............. ....... ...... 256
Lompoc .... .... . . . ............ .Lompoc . . .......... .. . ........ 262
Lower Lake . . . .. ....... . . . . . . . Clear Lake . . . . . ... .. . . ... . .... 183
Long Beach ................... Long Beach ... . ........ : ... . .. 327
''
......... . ......... Palos Verdes ........ . ..... . .. 389
................... Seaside .............. .. ....... 504
"
Los Angeles . . .. ... . .... . . .. ... Los Angeles ................ . .. · 42
. . .. .. . : . . . . .. ..... Wilmington .. .. . . . .. .. ... . . .. . 198
"
....
..... : .. . ..... . 1Pentalpha ............ . .. . .... 202
"
.. ... ... . ... ... .. . . Southern California ........... 278
"
·....... : .. : ·: .. . .. .. East Gate .......... : .......... 290
................... Hollenbeck .................... 319
"

706
Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGEl:I
Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles ................... South Gate .................... 320
.................. . Vallee de France .............. 329
"
................... West Gate ..................... 335
"
... . ........ .. ..... Palestine ................... . .. 351
"
................... Sunset ........................ 352
"
... . ........... .. .. Golden State ............ . ...... 358
"
................... Mizpah ......•................ 378
"
................... Highland Park .......... . ...... 382
"
........... . .... . .. West Lake ............. : .... . . 392
"
...... . .. . .. .. ..... University ...... . ... . ...... . . . 394
"
................ . .. Moneta ..................... . . 405
....... . ........... Arlington ................ . . . .. 414
....... . ........ . .. Silver Trowel ............... . . 415
...... . ......... .. . Elysian ......... . ............. 418
............ . ...... Acacia ............... . ....... 438
.............. . . . .. W'ilshire ...................... 445
... . .... ; ... . ... . .. Van Nuys ................. . ... 450
........ . ....... . .. Henry S. Orme ............... .458
.......... . ..... . .. America ............. . ...... . . 475
"
.... . .. . . .. ........ Clarence F. Smith ............. .482
... .. . . ......... . .. Albert Pike ... .. .... . .... . . . .. 484
"
''
...... . ......... . .. Garvanza ........... . ........ . 492
''
..... . .... . . . .... .. Mt. Olive .................... . 506
''
... .. . . ..... . . . . .. . Benj. Franklin ..... ... ..... . .. 509
''
.... . . . ..... . . .. .. . Cahuenga . .. .. . . . ...... . ... . .. 513
Los Banos ............. . .... .. . Los Banos ..........•.......... 312
Los Gatos ...... .... ....... . . . . Los Gatos .......... . . . ....... . 392
Loyalton ...... .. .............. .Loyalton ...................... 359
Manteca . ....... . ............. Tyrian ........................ 439
:Miaricopa ..... . ........ . ....... Maricopa ..........•.......... 434
Marysville ...... . ... . ......... Corinthian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Maxwell . .. . .... . ............. Maxwell . .... .. . . ...... .. . ... . 288
Madera ....................... Madera ....................... 280
Mariposa ....... . ............. Mariposa ................. , ... · 24
Martinez . .. . ......... . . . ...... Martinez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Mc Cloud ........... .. ......... Mc Cloud ........... . .......... 430
Merced ........ .. ........... , . Yosemite . . .................... 99
Mendocino .................... Mendocino .................... 179
Middletown ................ , . . Callayomi .................... . 282
Milton ..... • . .. ...... .. ....... Keystone . . ..•........ . ....... 161
Mill Valley .•................. Mill Valley .......... . ..... . ... 356
Millville ........ . ............. Northern Light . . ....... . . .. . . . 190
Monrovia ..................... Monrovia ...... . .............. 308

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

707

Lodge.

No.

Montebello ........ . ........... Montebello ... . ....... . ....... .451
Monterey ............. . .... . .. Monterey ........ . ...... . ..... 217
Mlorgan Hill .................. Morgan inn ............. . ..... 463
Mountain View . .... . . .. .. . .... Mountain View ..... . ...... . ... 194
Modesto ........... . .......... Stanisla·u s •........ .. .......... 206
Murphy's ..... . .... . . . . . ... . .. Ophir . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
National City ....... .. ........ South West ................. . . 283
Napa . ...•... . ...... . . . .... . .. Yount ........................ 12
Newman ..... . ................ Hill's Ferry ..... .. ............ 236
Needles . ..... . ................ Needles ............. .. ........ 326
Nevada City .......... . ... . . . . Nevada ...... . .. . .... · . . · · · · · · 13
Norwalk ...................... Norwalk ...................... 315
Oakland .... . ........ , .. . ..... Live· Oak ••...... . . '. . . . . . . . . . . 61
... . ............ . . . .•• Oakland ......... . ............ 188
''
''
...................... Brooklyn ...................... 225
"
.. . .. . ................ Sequoia ........ . ............ . . 349
''
... . . . ...... . ..... . . . . Alcatraz . ..... .. .. . ....•...... 244
''
..... . ................ Fruitvale ........ . . . .......... 336
''
.. .. . . ....... . ... . .... Bay View ....... ... .... . ...... 401
............. . ....... . Yerba Buena ......... ..· . . .. . .. 403
"
''
.... . .......... . ...... Standard ............. .. ...... 440
''
. . .. . . . .. . ... . . . ..... . Rockridge ... . ........... ... .. 468
''
... . ... . .. . .... . ...... Fellowship . . .. ... ............. 480
"
. .' . . ..... ... ..... . . . .. Acorn ............ .. ........ . . 494
"
......... .... ... .. .... Fremont .......... . . . ...... . .. 497
Oakdale ... . .. . ..............• Oakdale ........... · . · · · · · · · · · 275
Oceanpark . . . . ...... .. . . : .. ...• Ocean Park ........... .. ...•.. 369
Oceanside . . ....... . ... . .. . .. . . Oceanside ....... . ...... .. · · .. · 381
Ontario ...... . ..... . ........ . • Ontario . . ........ . ....... · · · · · 301
Orange ............. . ... . ..... Orange Grove ........... .. .... 293
Orland .. . ............ . ..... .. . Orland ... .. ....... · · · · · · · · · · · .265
Orosi ... . .. ~ . . . .. . ... . ... . ·.. . . Orosi . . ..... . .... .. ...... ... .. 383
Oroville ............ : .......... Oroville .............. . ....... 103
Oxnard .. .. .... .. ............. Oxiiard •........ . ......... · · · · 341
Paciftc Grove ... . . .. .......... Pacific Grove .. . . . . . . . . . . ·. · · · .331
Palms ...... . .. . .. . .... . .... . . Palms .•........ .. .... . ....... 512
Palo Alto .. . ...... ... . . .... .. . Palo Alto ... . . ... ..... . ....... 346
Pasadena. . ..... .... .... . ...... Pasadena . . ..... . ... . . .. · . · · · · 272
''
. . ...... .. ..... . ... . . corona ... . . .. ... . ..... . ....... 324
.... . ................ San Pasqual .. . ........ .. ..... 452
"
Paskenta . ............ . ...... . . Newville . . . . . .. . .. . ..... · · · · · · 205
Pas~ Robles . . .. . ...... . ... . ... Pa~o Robles .. .. ... .. ....... . .• 286
Patt~rson •...... . . . ........... Patterson .....•........ · · . · • · .488

708
Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES
Lodge.

No.

Penryn . .... . ........... . ...•. Penrhyn .. . .......... . ......... 258
Perris ... ... .. . . . ... ... .... .. . Perris . .. ........... . ..... . .... 411
Petaluma ...................... Petaluma ......... . ........... 180
Pinole . .. .... .... .. . .. . .... .. . Pinole. . ...... . . ........ . . , .. . . 353
Pittsburg .............. . ...... Pittsburg .... . ........ . ...... .429
Placerville . ...... . .... . .... .. . Palmyra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Pleasanton ....... . .. ·.......... Alis al ........ . ................ 321
Plymouth .... . . .. . . . .. . ·. ·. '. .. . . Drytown . . .... . ... .. .......... 174
Point Arena ..... .. : . . .. .. .. . . Claiborne ......... . ... .. ..... . 185
Pomona . . ...... . . ... . ·..... . ... Pomona . .... . ...... . .... . ..... 246
Porterville ....... . ...... '. ..... Porterville . ........ . .......... 303
Puente .. . .. . ... .. . . . . ::. .... .. La Puente . . .. . . ..... . .. ... ... . 446
Quincy ............. : : . ....... Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Redondo .. .. .. .. . .. . ::: . ... . .. Redondo . . , ... . ......... . . .... 328
Redding ....... . ..... : ........ Reading ...................... 254
Redlands .... ... . . ... : : . .. . . .. Redlands .. . .. . . .. . .... . .. . ... . 300
Reedley ....... . . . ... . :: . .. . ... Reedley . . ..... . . .. . .... . ... . .. 304
Redwood City . ... . ... : . . ...... Redwood City . . ......... . ..... 168
Red Bluff ... . . .. .. ... . . . .....• Vesper .... .. .................. 84
Richmond ·, ....... . ............ Alpha .. . ............. ... ..... 431
''
.... .. .. .. .. : . ....... McKinley . .... . .............. . 347
''
...... .. . . . : . . .... . .. Harbor ... . . .. . ... .. ... . . . .. .. 502
''
......... . . : . ....... . Point ..... . ... . . . . . . ........ .. 503
Rio Vista ....... . ..... . . : ..... Rio Vista· . . .. . .. . .. . . ... .. .... 208
Riverbank ............ : . ... . .. Riverbank .... . . .... . .... .. .... 459
Riverdale ..................... Riverdale . .. .. .. ........ .. .... 496
Riverside . ........ . .. . .... . ... Evergreen . .. . .. . ... . .. . . . . . ... . 259
Roseville ..................... Roseville .. . ............. .. .... 222
Sacramento ......... .' ......... T ehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
.. . ...............• Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
"
·It
......... .. ........ Sacramento . .. .. .. ...... . . .... 40
''
........ . .... . ..... Union .. . ........ . ... .. .... . ... 58
''
... . ...... . ..... . .. Concord ..... ·..... . . . .. . : .. ... . 117
"
... ·................ Capital City .... . ... . . . ..... : . . 499
Saint Helena ... . . .. .. . ..... . .. Sai nt H elena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
San· Andreas ..... . ...... : ..... Calaveras ..... .. ............ . . 78
San·Bernardino . .... .'. ....... ·.. Phoenix ... . ... . .... .... . . ... . 178
''
................ San· Bernardino .............. . 348
San· Diego . ....... . ... . .... . ... San Diego . . . . .. . .... . . . .. .. .. . 35
''
......... . ..... . ..... Silv er Gate .. ·.. ...... . .... . ... . 296
''
... . . . . . .... . .... . ... Blackmer .. .. . .... . .... .. ... . . 442
San· Dimas .. , ..•. . .. , .. • . , . ..• San Dimas ....... , . . ... ... ... .428

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

709

Lodge.

No.

San Francisco ... . .... .. .... .. . California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 1
.... . .... . ....... Parfaite Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
"
. ....... . ........ Occidental ..... . .. ..... . . . .. . . 22
"
... .. ... . . ...... . Golden Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
"
.. . ..... . ...... . . Mount Moriah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
"
.. ... ..... . . ... .. Fidelity .. . . .. . ...... . .. . . .. ... 120
"
· .. . . . ........... Hermann •...... . ............. 127
"
... .. ........ .. .. Pacific .... . ......... . ...... . .. 136
"
. · .. . . ... . ......•.Crockett . . .. .. .. . .... . . . .. . . . . 139
"
.. . . . ........... ~ Oriental .. .. ... . ..... . .... . .. . . 144
"
. ... . ...... . . . ... Excelsior . . ....... : .... . ...... 166
"
. .. ..... . .. ...... Mission .... .. . . . ..... .. .... . .. 169
"
... . ............. South San Francisco ......... , .212
"
. . . . ... ...... . . .. Doric . . .... . ....... . . . ....... . 216
"
. .. . ..... . ....... Speranza Italip.·n a ...... .. ..... 219
"
.. . ... . ..... . .... King Solomon's ... . . . .. . ...... 260
"
.. . .............. Starr King ..... . . . . .... . .... . . 344
"
.... .. ...... . . ....Presidio .. .... .. ....... . . . .... 354
"
.. . . . . ........ . . .'. San Francisco ... . ... . . .. ... , . . 360
"
. . . .. .... ... ... • . Amity •. ... . .. .. ........... . .. 370
"
..... . . . . .. .... . . Jewel .... .. .. ... .. . . ........ . 374
"
. . . . .. . ... .. . . . . . Richmond . . ... . . ... . . . . ...... . 375
"
. . ... . ... . ... ... . Parnassus .............. . ... . .. 388
"
.. . . . . . ... . ... . .. Balder ... . . . .. .... .. .. . .. . . . .. 393
"
................. Fairmont ...... . . ........ . .. . .435
"
· . . . .. .. . . .... . .. Park . ....... . ..... . .... . . . ... 449
"
.... .. .... .... . .. Bethlehem . . . . .. ... . ... . ..... .453
"
.... . . .. . .. .. .... Golden West ... . .. .... ... . .... 455
"
. .. ..... .. ... . . .. Argonaut . ... .. .. . .- . .. .. ... . .. 461
"
. .. . .. . ... ... . . . . Paul Revere .. .. .. . . . . . . . .. . ... 462
"
... . . . ..........• Alta Vista .... . . . . . ..........• 464
"
. . ...... . . . ...... Lincoln .. .. . ... .. ..... . .. . . ... 470
"
. . .. . .... . . . ... . . Victory .. . ... , .. . ..... . ... . ... 474
"
.. ........... .. .. Mt. Davidson . . . .. . ... . . .. ... .481
"
.. . . . ... . . ... . . .. Lebanon .. . . ... .. .. . ... .. . . .. . 495
"
. . . . ....... . . . ..• Roosevelt ...... . ... .. ......... 500
"
''
. . . ...... . . .. .... Argonne ........ . . ... ... . .. . . U. D.
San Jacinto ... . ............... San Jacinto ..... . ............. 338
San Jose ...... .. ......... . .. .. . San Jose .............. ... . .... 10
'' .... . . ......... .. ........ Friendship .... . . .. . . . . ..... . . .. 210
' ' · ·. · ... .. . ... . .. . .. .. .. Fraternity . . . . . . .. . . . ...... .. . 399
'' ... · · · ... . ... . . .. ... .. . Golden Rule ..... .. .. . ... .. .. . 479
San Joaquin ... . . .. .. ... , .....•. Joppa .... , ..... . .. , .. . ... . ... 508

710
Post Office.

LOCATION 'oF LODGES

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN1A

711

Lodge.

No.

No.

San Juan .......... . .......... Texas .. .. .... ........ ........ 46
San Leandro ..... ..... . .... ... Eden .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .113
San Luis Obispo ....... . . . ..... King David's .. .. . · ·· .. ··· ···· .209
San Mateo .. , .... .... . ... ..... San Mateo ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 226
San Miguel .•... ... .. .. .... .... San Miguel ... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 285
San Pedro ....... ..... ..... .. . San Pedro ... . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .332
San Rafael ................... Marin ...... ........ .......... 191
Santa Ana ..... . ....... ... .... Santa Ana . · ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .241
"
Silver Cord ... .. .............. 505
Santa Barb;r·~.:::::::::::::::: Santa Barbara ................ 192
''
......... . , ..... Magnolia ..... .. .............. 242
Santa Clara •....... .. ......... Lib.e;rty · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .299
Santa Cruz .............. . ..... Santa Cruz ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 38
Santa Maria .................. Hesperian .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 264
Santa Monica ... .... ....... . .. Santa Monica . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 307
Santa Paula ....... . . ...... ... Santa Paula . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 291
Santa Rosa ...... . ............ Santa Rosa ....... · ···· ····· ··· 57
Salinas ....................... Salinas ...... ....... .......... 204
S anger ............... · · · · · · · · • Sang· er "· · · · · · · · .. ............. 316
Sawtelle ............... . ...... Veteran ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .3.73
Schofield Barracks .. .. ......... Schofield ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .443
S eb as t opo l ............ .. ..... · La Fayette ...... . ............. 126
Selma ............. .. ........• Selma .......... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .277
Shasta ................ ...... .. Western Star ... .. · · · · · · · · · · · · 2
Sierra City ... . ...... ... ....... Harmony ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · .164
Sierra Madre .................. Sierra Madre · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .408
Sierraville ... .. . .. . ........ . .• Sierra. Valley · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .184
Sisson ........ ·... ... . . ........ Sisson ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 310
Smartsville ...... . . ... .. ..... . Rose's Bar .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 89
South Berkeley ... ....... ..... East Bay .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .489
South Pasadena ...... . .... ·.... South Pasadena .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · .367
South San Francisco ..... ..... Francis Drake · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .376
Sonoma; ................ .. ..... Temple ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 14
Sonora ........... ....... ...... Tuolumne ........ · · · · · · · · · · · · : 8
Stockton ................... .. . San Joaquin ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 19
''
......... ......... .... Morning Star .. . . . ....... · · · · · 68
"
.
Delta ......................... 471
...................... Snow Mountain .......... . . . · .. 271
Stony Ford ... .. .... · · · · · ·· · ··•
Sunnyvale ..... .. .. ... ........ Sunnyvale .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .51).
Susanville ...... . ...... ....... . Lassen ........... .... .... ... . 149
Sutter Creek ..... .. .. .. ....... Henry Clay . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 95
Suisun • , ... , ......... . . . ...... Suisun ............ .. . · · · · · · · · · 55
Taft .......................... Midway ...................... 426

Post Office.

Tehama ....................... Molino ............. ..... ...... 150
Tehachapi ..................... Tehachapi . : ................... 313
Torrance ............. ....... .. 'l'orrance . ......... .... ... .... 447
Tracy ......................... Mt. Oso ....... .. .. ... ..... ... . 460
Truckee ....................... Truckee .......... . ........... 200
Tulare .......................• Olive Branch ....... ... . .. .... 269
Tuolumne ..................... East Belt ................ .... . 391
Turlock ....................... Turlock ....................... 395
Ukiah .......................• Abell ................... ... ... 146
Upland ......................• Upland ................... .. ... 419
Vallejo ......................... Naval ........................ 87
''
................... Solano ........................ 229
''
. . .. ............... Vallejo ... . ............... ... . 487
Vacaville ...................•. Vacaville . ....... . ............ 134
Van Nuys ......................Van Nuys ..... .... . ........ ... 450
Ventura .....................• San Buenaventura ............. 214
Visalia ......................• Visalia ................... . ... 128
Volcano ......................• Volcano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Walnut Creek .................. Alamo ........................ 122
Watsonville ..................• Pajaro ....................... 110
Watts ........................ York ........................ .423
Weaverville ................... Trinity ....................... 27
Westwood .................... Westwood ..................... 501
Wheatland ... . ........... ... .. Nicolaus ...................... 129
Whittier ...................... Whittier ...... .. ......... .. , .. 323
Winters ....................... Buckeye ...................... 195
Willits ........................ Willits ..................... ... 365
Willows ............. ·......... Laurel ................ ....... . 245
Windsor ...................... Russian River ................. 181
Williams ...................... Tuscan ........................ 261
Wilmington ................... Wilmington ................. , .198
Woodbridge ................... Woodbridge .............. ·..... 131
Woodland .................. .. • Woodland ............... . ..... 156
Yolo .......................... Yolo .......................... 81
Yorba Linda ................... Yorba Linda ............... .. 469
Yreka .......... .. ............ St. John's ..................... 37
" ............ .. .......... Howard ....................... 96
Yuba City .................... Enterprise ............. .. ..... 70

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, 1921 .
By JESSE M. WHITED

To the .M ost Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of Californ~a, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
~

I submit my third report on Foreign Correspondence.
The general topics of interest in the various Proceedings are:
(1) The tendency of the various Grand Lodges to take action
against the "higher degrees" and miscellaneous organizations.
(2) The enormous growth of the Fraternity, and the reason
therefor.
·
(3) The attempt to find some means to overcome the danger
due to that increase.
(4) An effort to devise some way to make Lodges something
other than "degree mills."
(5) The continuation of Masonic education and establishing
new plans in Jurisdictions that have not yet given this matter
attention.
(6) The part that Masonry must play in the affairs of the
day, and particularly the Public School question.
Some Grand Lodges have gone so far as to pass resolutions
endorsing the "Smith-Towner Bill." From a theoretical standpoint
this may be contrary to an Ancient Landmark (?) but we can not
help but feel that it is a step in the right direction. General resolutions endorsing a theoretical question or the sentiment thereof,
without taking a positive position, are about as effective as resoluting in favor of the spirit of the Ten Commandments or the Declaration of Independence.
The proceedings of Nova Scotia, Nevada, Maine, Pennsylvania,
Vermont and Utah have been received too late for reviewing and
including the valuable part thereof in this report. They all contain
most interesting and valuable material.

2

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Acknowledgment is again made of the obligation we are under
to the Secretaries of the several Grand Bodies and Grand Lodges of
the United States, the Editors of Masonic publications and other
writers, whose replies to. questionnaries have materially added to
whatever value this report may have.
ADVERTISING
The association of· the words "Mason" or "Masonic" with
enterprises established or promoted for private gain, cannot be too
strongly condemned. The average member, naturally assumes that
they are operated for the benefit of the Fraternity, and consequently
feels duty bound to patronize them. A number of the States have
made it an offense to use the word "Mason" or "Masonic" in cases
of this kind, and the soone'r the rest of the Jurisdictions fall in
line the better it will be.
There is also too much advertising of the private doings of the
Fraternity, but as we are living in a "progressive age," we are perhaps_ but following the natural trend of affairs.
Alabama:
Our Porto Rico brethren have conceived the novel idea of
establishing a "Masonic Bank," which has become one of ·the "great
banking institutions of San Juan," to use the woi;ds o~ grand S.ecretary J. G. Torres. In a little more than a year, its ongmal capital
has been multiplied nine times ov('!r, its deposits excee~ $150,000,
and its loans also exceed this sum. It has br.anches m Saba~a
Grande and Lares and agencies at th~ee other pomts. Th~ stock 1s
quoted at a premium of 71,~% an~ 1s expected to go higher. I~
pays interest on open deposits which permanently exceed ~500.qo,
it has enabled the brethren as well as profanes to hold their fruits
instead of having to sell them at low prices; it has freed the poor
from the grip of the usurers by making loans :is small a~ $25:00 at
the legal rate of interest; it has encouraged thrift and sav1~g; it has
aided Grand Lodge with necessary adyances;, and has ass1ste.d the
lodges in building, buying and enlargm&: their te~ple~. !t 1s declared to have increased greatly the prestige of our institution. The
bank, though owned and operated by Masons, is not controlled by
Grand Lodge.
Connecticut:
.
Jurisprudence Committee properly denounced a circular 'sent
out by a "Craftsman's League" urging votes for Masons who were
political candidates "As a Masonic Duty." The very few times
that your cra11k reporte; was thus approached (verbally), usually
decided him to vote against such candidates.

*

*

*

*

*

*

As Grand Secretary, we have received numberless letters from
different organizations, some of them meritorious and others !'Ilo;e
or less of fakes, a·sking our Grand Lodge to endorse and aid m
their propaganda. Naturally, most of th~se letters wer~ thr.own
into the waste basket without reply. But, m these hysterical times
this should serve as warning to firmly combat these crafty efforts

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

3

to make our Fraternity a tool for selfish ends whether such effort
comes from a sneaky politicaJ party· or from an organization which
is doing unselfish and effective uplift work. In either case, the
introduction of such matters into our Lodges or Grand Lodge will
almost always evoke sharp discussion, and, even if all were to agree,
what especial effect would our endorsement have? Not enough to
compensate for the perilous precedent of letting politics or sectarianism into our Lodges.
Florida:
He reported a peculiar case of an appeal for aid, the like of
which we have never heretofore heard. A man who was a member
of a Lodge in Texas skillfully composed a letter and mailed one to
all of the 900 Lodges in Texas, certifying that the writer was
afflicted with tuberculosis, that he had been promised complete
restoration by a physician after he had spent two years in a certain
climate, in the West, and requesting of the Lodge a loan of $15 to
assist him in making the change and living during the time required.
It was agreed that if he recovered he was to return the money as
a loan, but in case he lost his life, the loan was to be considered
a donation. Enclosed with each letter was a certificate from a
physician that the applicant was a Master Mason, that he was
inclined to believe that the case was curable, and the assistance was
asked to enable him to 1 be restored to health. The appeal was
without authority, and the Grand Master commenced an investigation. It was found that if all of the Lodges appealed to made him
the loan it would amount to over $13,000. It was also discovered
that the man was not suffering with an acute case of tuberculosis
but was working at his daily employment and receiving good
wages. He was a heavy drinker and it was only while drunk that
he lost any time. Charges were preferred and the man expelled.
Illinois:
Many protests have come to the grand master from lodges.
and brethren concerning soliciting for so-called Masonic insurance.
At a recent session of this Grand Lodge, it was specifically decided
that insurance of all kinds is prohibited. Insurance is a business
whether it be called Masonic or otherwise. The mere fact that an
insurance company will accept Masons only, does not exempt it
from the prohibition· in the law as referred to above. The only
business permitted in the law is "the printing or publication of
Masonic books, papers, or periodicals, or the manufacture and sale
of Masonic supplies." The Masonic papers are thus favored because of their value to the craft.
The specific question involved at this time is whether publishing in the Masonic press the advertisements of foreign insurance
companies bearing the name of "Masonic" is a violation of the
law. These organizations have the legal right to do business in
Illinois, if they comply with the regulations of the insurance department of the state. We are of the opinion, however, that the
Grand Lodge has complete jurisdiction over the individual Mason.
It can prohibit him from being a party to an:Y business in violation of Masonic law. Any insurance assuming to be Masonic is
illegal under the laws of this Grand Lodge.
We are of the opinion that the publication by a Masonic newspaper of advertisements of insurance or other business enterprises,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

bearing the name of "Mason" or "Masonic," is contrary to the
spirit of the sections quoted. The rea~ons will readily appear. The
representative of a so-called Masonic insurance company can go
into the Lodge rooms with a copy of a Masonic publication and
solicit the business of Masons who are led to believe that because
the advertisement appears in a Masonic paper that it is fostered,
supported and authorized by the Grand Lodge of Illinois.
It is impossible for the Grand Lodge or individual Masons to
know the character of those corporations organized under the laws
of other states.
·
We therefore hold, that the law contained in Sections 716 and
717 would subject the publishers of Masonic papers to discipline
by their )odges.
Your committee regrets that it may seem to hold against the
business transactions of our Masonic papers. However, in construing the law we must do so from its meaning, and from the
spirit of the Craft.
ATTENDANCE
There is a letter on file in one of the minute books of Virginia
written in the early part of the Eighteenth Century complaining that
the brethren spent their time in the anteroom with "Jachin" and
"Boaz." That was the respective designations of two demijohns
of good Jamaica Rum and Holland. Gin. Brethren of the Revolutionary period certainly enjoyed privileges that are forbidden to
us now.
Owing to the vast amount of degree work that has been, and
still is, being carried on, the average member finds little to attract
him to the regular meetings, and statistics show that even at the
best the Lodge life of the average member is not more than seven
years. The remedy for this is in the hands of th Worshipful
Master, and the attendance at meetings must depend upon his
ability to provide entertainment and instruction' outside of mere
ritualistic work. We believe that Lodges should devote more time
to the social side of our organization, but as the average Master
is prone to measure his success by the number of degrees conferred,
the remedy will undoubtedly have to come from the Grand Lodge
itself. This can be done by shortening the ritual, and setting a time ·
limit between the conferring of each degree on an individual. '
Every Grand Master is fertile in ideas along this lin.e but none
of them have been able to do' any thing practical to solve the
question.

man is prone to discuss, even with his closest friend, the ideals he
holds deepest and dearest. He has for his familiar intercourse
those things which others have in common with himself-his busines~ problems, his social employment or recreation, the things of
national concern, and the commonplace joys and vexations which
all share alike. Whether it be dread of ridicule fear of a lack of
~nderstandiRg, or mere aiffidence, the secret ch~mber of his heart
1s never opened, but in the privacy of his moods of in.trospection
and upon the approach of another personality the door closes and
across the portal is inscribed "No Admittance." Behold this
dreamer dreameth !

4

Colorado:
Why, if Masonry is a universal philosophy and has a universal
appeal, why are the Communications of the Lodge so poorly attended?
Why are the Lodge rooms not thronged nightly with those
who have found in Masonry what they sought? The answer is not
difficult. Those dreams, those ambitio ns, those desires, those hopes
are the sacred treasures of the hidden chambers of the heart. No

Delaware:
I am impr~ss.ed. ~ith the fact that many of the brethren
throughout the JUnsd1ction who have advanced to the various other
Masonic bodies seem to have lost their interest in the Blue Lodge
and are under. the impression that the advanced bodies afford the~
all the lig~t, inspiration, and fellowship that Masonry can confer.
I am certam that on reflection you will agree that this is a serious
mistake and that nobody will deny that the essence and significance
of ~asonry . is in the Blue Lodg~ an_? that other degrees of the
various bodies are largely amphflcat10n and explanation of the
Blue Lodge degrees.
A man's Masonry must be measured largely by his interest in
and his attitude toward his Blue Lodge.
. Again I have notic_ed that Man¥ Masons after reaching middle
hfe cease to attend their lodge, although they may continue to pay
their dues. If the pr~nciples of Masonry are good for youth, they
should prove comfortmg to age. If they are good to live by they
should be good to die by. I would suggest that the mast~rs of
each lodge, by condud of the work and by personal solicitation
endeavor to retain the support and guidance of their older members'.
Georgia :
('>.n amendment, for th~ purpose of more closely investigating
applicants for the Frat~rmt:y., was adop ted by which lodge~ are
grouped so ~h3lt. proper mqumes can be ~ade regarding the charact~r. and ehg1b1hty of the l?r?i;iosed candidate. This system is in
addition to. ~he plan of exh1b1tmg in lodges, the names submitted
for propos1tJon.
Dis~ussion of the i:ew plan broug~t ou,t many wise and proper
su.ggest10ns for guar,?mg lodges agamst 'undesirables being admitted tC! the Craft.
The same old careless attitude of some
breth~en 1s brought out in the discussion, when one of the debaters,
speaku~g of the members of the Craft, said that "if they would only
do the.1r duty, a~ unfortunately many did not, there would be no
necessity for th~s . matter to be dis cussed. It is unfortunate that
man)'. members JOm the Craft, who are never seen again, except at
rare mtervals. Th~ whole trouble would be overcome if something
could be done to mduce more regular attendance.
We have underscored the last two sentences because much of
the f~ilure of Freemasoi:ry is due to. lack of attendance o n lodge
meetmgs,_ and th~ weanmg away of mterest. But how can there
b~ ~uch mterest m attendanc~, especially in certain American jurisd.1ct10.ns, when Freemas.onry 1s on.ly use1 for a dramatic recital of
ntuahs!Il ~nd the throwmg of applicants into the hopper of degrees
and grmdmg them out as so-called Masons?

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
6

7

REPORT' ON CORRESPONDENCE

Mexico:
It is the country newspaper which really interests a man. After
reading the big dailies with their world-wide news, he turns with
a sigh of content to his own little home town, one-sheet paper, and
there he reads all the home news. ·How Miss So-and-So spent the
night with Miss This and That and had a most enjoyable visit; and
John, who came home fr.om the war with medals .on his breas.t,
was received by the village band and escorted up main street to his
home, where his aged parents were waiting to receive him, etc., etc.
· As we said, it is the same with our Annual Communication.
We want to know what this Lodge is doing, and that one, and we
want to meet all our old friends, and slap backs and clasp hands,
glad indeed to meet those from whom perhaps we have not heard
from in a whole year.

*

*

*

*

*

*

As a rule the neophyte, after ·havin~ been, as a rule, given the
degrees, with greater or less care, as time permits, is left to shift
for himself. After the first glamour has worn off, he finds little to
attract his attention and gradually he ceases to attend. For him
the Lodge becomes simply a place in which candidates are nightly
passed through certain ceremonies and that is all. We know of
many fair-sized Lodges of 150 to 200 members, where the attendance is certainly on an average not over ten per cent. Does not
this point the moral, if not adorn the tale?
Mississippi:
Before entering upon his address proper the Grand Master
proceeds to lecture the delegates to the Grand Lodge relative to
their duty. He states that while subordinate Lodges pay the expenses of their representatives to the Grand Lodge sessions, often
they fail entirely to get any benefit themselves, and, of course, fail
to carry any information back home to the brethren, who are thus
taxed without any returns.
My Brother, this applies to Mississippi also. Many delegates
are sent to the Grand Lo'dge who spend' very little time in the
lodge room; and who, as soon as they arrive, begin to figure on
getting a leave of absence to return home. They are always careful, however, to arrange matters so they can draw their mileage
an.i per diem.
New Mexico:
Under this head the Grand Ma.ster wisely says:
.
"In general, I find our Lodges in good, healthy condition. My
observation in conjunction with the reports of the District Deputy
Grand Masters is that the attendance is not what it should be. I
do not mean . to imply that non-attendants are not good Masons;
nevertheless, I am convinced that this is partly due to our officers,
who, for various reasons, do not make the meetings attractive
enough, disregard the importance of punctuality in meeting, and
do not exemplify our work properly. There seems to prevail only
the desire to get through with the meeting in record-breaking time,
and this, coupled with a vei:y scant knowledge of our laws, is not
conducive to bring about a good attendance."

New York:
I have no desire to criticize in the least degree the work of the
past, but I do say that our Masonic Fraternity has been far too
much occupied with what we call "making Masons." How often
do we hear our Lodges spoken of as "degree mills" and their work
as "grinding out degrees!" Is there not altogether too much of
truth· in this reproach? Two statements have been so commonly
made in Masonic circles that I know you must all have heard
them, namely, that there are as many unaffiliated Masons in this
state as there are in good standing, and that the average Masonic
life of our brothers is about seven years. Whether these statements
are altogether correct is immaterial. Certainly there are numbers
of men everywhere who, having received their degrees and attended
a few communications, appear to lose all interest in our work and
practically drop out of sight. What is the cause of this condition?
Are these brethren disappointed in what they have received? Have
they come to the conclusion that if Freemasonry consists only in
working over and over the same degrees there is nothing in it for
them? Did they join solely out of curiosity, expecting something
entirely different from what they received? Is there too much
repetition of ritual? l confess that I do not know! But whatever
the reason, the facts remain that many drop out and that the
average Masonic life in this state is far too short. Do not these
facts force us to the conclusion that we are not interesting and
holding our members as we should? What is the remedy? Of
that I shall speak later. But I do not see how the Fraternity can
continue to thrive unless. it faces squarely this condition and makes
whatever effort is necessary to overcome it.
South Carolina:
Brother Edward P. Hufferd, Grand Orator, Connecticut, delivered a brief address on the "Universality of Masonry," asking
the question and not satisfactorily answering it, "If Masonry is so
universal, why are lodge meetings so poorly attended?" One great
reason, we believe, is because the officers of lodges do not familiarize themselves with the ritual, so are unable to confer the degrees
in an interesting and intelligent manner.
Texas:
I had the pleasure of being present on this occasion and assisted in conferring the degree upon this candidate, which was done
at the conclusion of a meeting unique in its character, in that the
Lodge was opened in the Master Mason's degree, in the Masonic
Temple, at 2 o'clock a. m., and remained in continuous session
throughout the day, the officers serving in relays, and conferring
more than thirty degrees during the session. There were in attendance teams from several of the neighboring Lodges, who
served alterna~ely in conferring the degrees, and in each instance
these Brethren acquitted themselves with credit and distinction.
Virginia:
I wish there was a law in Masonry whereby a Brother might
be cited to appear and show cause why he should not be suspended
for non-attendance at the stated communications of his Lodge.
So many men apply, are made Masons and pay their annual dues
from year to year and never show their faces inside the Lodge

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

room, and expect to reap all the benefits of Freemasonry. After
all is said, ours is a human institution and is only what its members make it.
West Australia:
Why not see that every candidate, when taking his third degree, purchases, or is presented with, a Volume of the Local Proceedings? Where the proceedings of other Lodges are reviewed
the information from a Masonic point of view is invaluable-especially is this so in the volume we have before us, and we know of
no other better medium to whet one's appetite for more.
It is freely acknowledged that many a worthy Mason becomes
an inactive member of the Craft through having to witness ceremonies only year in and year out. The Masters have the remedy
in their own hands, and can make the gatherings informative and
instructional by using the digests in the proceedings for the education of Lodge .members. Those who wish to dip deeper will find
the libraries open whenever they desire.
"BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS"
In reviewing the Proceedings. of our GFand Lodge Officers and
the Grand Lodge itself, from the Correspondence Reports of the
various Jurisdictions we find the following:
Alabama: Washington Memorial.-Grand Master Webster
deemed this enterprise as of secondary importance and we agree
with him.
Bolshevism.-Strong resolutions denouncing this criminal · and
un-American movement were also adopted and Grand Orator,
Brother Charles H. Victor, delivered an address breathing the
spirit of true Americanism.
Correspondence.-Though in the much decried "topical" form
this report by Brother Jesse M. Whited is a very able one. A badly
digested dinner must be responsible for the tone of pessimism which
pervades much of it.
Connecticut: Bradford Webster, G. M., delivered an excellent
and exhaustive address, mostly dealing with local conditions.
Bro. Jesse M. Whited submits his first Correspondence Report,
122 pages, on the topical plan; which, frankly, we do not like.
Delaware: The report on correspondence is by Brother Jesse
M. Whited, and is presented in an unusual form, but makes an
interesting paper.
District of Columbia: The report of the Grand Secretary is,
as usual, a gem; in admirable sequence, all needed facts and figures.
The report on the Covina Home reads like a fai·ry tale, by far
the most interesting of all the Home reports.
The grievance report is excellent. It carefully guards names
and offenses, so the enemy can make no use of it, but there is
enough for the information of the Craft.
The report on correspondence is by Bro. Jesse M. Whited,
and is a report not a review. It is splendidly written, but not all
correct. H e has 24 signers of the Declaration of Independence as

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

9

Masons; we cannot find 10. Jefferson's name is not on le Loge Neuf
Soeurs rostor. We have the roster. The Oliver Wolcot is son
of the signer. Y orston's library of Masonic history has misled
many. Tho~as Paine, who wrote scandalously about Masonry,
showed, m his language, he was not a Mason. His name is not
on the roster of le Loge N euf Soeurs.
. . His essay on the Bible is admirallle. His entries under "Cathol!C1sm," are excellent. We would invite him to read the Cannon La-r
and the. ?yllabus Romanum (Vatican decrees) of Pius IX of 1864.
Its politics are somewhat condensed there. His excerpts on a
general Grand Lodge show he recognizes its evils. His synopsis
of rep.orts on German ~xclusion are adrnJrably selected; he can see
good m a Mason even 1f he is German. I wish we all could.
Ther~ is .a lor:ig ,rel?ort on. the Masonic Homes, too long for
reproduction m this limited review. There may be better Masonic
homes, but we would not know where to look for them.
The .report of the Board of Relief is full and explicit.
. Florida: The Grand Master made a very interesting report in
wh1c? he a~ly presented the very large amount of work performed
. by him durmg the year.
. Georgia : The 'well-a.rran~ed Proceedings continue the painstakmg record of our California brethren and attest the ability of
Grand Secretary John Whicher.
Always a leader in methods of Masonic educatio n, the Gran.cl
Lodge took another step forward in the appointment of district
committees, which shall organize the· local lodges and arrange plans
for speakers and literature.
'
The San Francisco Board of Relief established a Children's
Health Center where physical examinations were conducted for the
bei:iefit of 211 children. Splendid reports are made by the various
relief and employment organizations.
. Splendid advice in regard to the opportunities for Masonry was
given by Grand Orator Charles H. Victor, who declared:
Bro~her Jesse M. Whi~ed pr_ese~ts his first report, and adopts
the topical ~orm, but carries. with 1t the redeeming feature that
Br.other Whited express~s ~1s own ?Pinions on various subjects,
usmg them mo~tly as bn~f mtroduct!on.s ~o each topic, printed in
bla<;k type. Views of d1ffere!1t Jurisdictions on each particular
subiect follow ur:ider th~ headmg of'the Jurisdictions. While we
do not favor topical reviews, Brother Whited's plan is the best we
have seen.
0

Idaho: California knows how to treat its venerable brethren.
Past ~rand Master James B. Stevens was presented and was given
a special w elcome by the Grand Master and brethren.
Brother Jesse M. Whited wrot~ his first report on Foreign Correspondence. He pursued the topical plan and succeeded. It is a
val?able doc~m~nt fro~ the standpoint of containing much inter~stmg Masomc mformat10n, but we could not turn to it and find out
!n a gen~ral way _wh~.t Idaho is doing. To gather a lot of Masonic
mform~tion that 1s right up to date and to review the ·P roceedings
of particular Grand Lodges ai;.e two very different things. It all
depends on what you are looking for.

REPORT ON . CORRESPONDENCE
10

11

' REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Illinois: The report of the Grand Seci:etary is quite a .complete
document and records much of the detailed matter which often
appears in the Grand Master's address.
.
Quite a long report is given from the ~as~m~ Ho.me _Board
which indicates that the Grand Lodge of Cahforma is domg its full
duty in taking care of its own.
The annual oration was delivered by Charles H. :Victor. The
subject is not -given but it relate? to the war and he said many very
helpful things in the course of his remarks.
·
.
The review which is presented at the close of _the report !S
prepared by Jesse M. Whited, and is topically considered._ It 1s
noticed that several quotations are taken from the P.ro~eedmgs of
the Grand Lodge of Illinois. It is however._ a very d1ff~cult matter
to consider a topical review without extending this arbcl~ to such
a length that the Finance Com!Il!ttee .would call the _writer upon
the carpet · and ask why the m1unct1on as to brevity was not
observed.
Indiana: The address of Grand Master Adams is one of the
most complete, instructive and interesting reports that we have eve:
had the pleasure of reading.
.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits his second ,review ?n corre~­
pondence, which like his first one, is extrem.ely 1i;iterestmg._ It 1s
written in topical form, and we have takei;i the hb~rty .~o mclude
in our review the article under the following headmg Order of
the De Molay for Boys."
Kansas: His (Grand Master) report on this subject is excellent
in detail, and in fact, almost a brief history of the occasion.
The usual report on correspondence, presented in subject form,
was made by Brother Jesse M. Whited, ~hairman. Fi:om the P_roceedings of Kansas he culls most of the important ;mb1ects, placmg
them to the credit of our Jurisdiction under a marginal head.
Louisiana: We cannot refrain from expressing our opinion of
the valuable compendium of Ma~onic information C?llated and co.mpiled by our good Brother Whited of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence. We feel better qualified for the additional tas~
we have assumed by reason of its reading and propose to have 1t
. conveniently at hand for reference for some time to come.
Brother Whicher is to be complimented upon the presentation of
this most perfect volume of Proceedings that it has been our plea.sure ·
to scan for a number of years. Perfectly indexed and desired information can be instantly located ai;id .th~ general style and make-up make
it the best of any Grand Junsd1ction. Our sister State never does
anythi'ng in a half-hearted manner.
Minnesota: The address was easily the best of the year, and
still more interesting from the graphic account of the Peace Jubilee
of the Grand Lodge of England, by th~ grand secr~tary, one of the
notable guests on that memorab '. e occasion.
An interesting first report on foreign cor~espondence was submitted by Bro. J. M. Whited, com~osed of clippings grouped un?er
suitable headings, by states. It differs from the so-called topical
report as day does from night.

Maryland: The American's Creed, in which Baltimore took
a lively interest that the · Mayor and City Council offered a
prize of a thousand dollars for the best expression of this Creed, wa·s
presented by Brother Eugene S. Elkus and adopted by the Grand
Lo?gC: a?d copies ordered to be sent to every Mason in California.
This 1s m advance of any Grand Lodge, though this Creed has been
referred to in other Grand Lodge Reports.
The Grand Oration reads very much like a · grand sermon and
many passa~es are marked for reference, but space is limited.
The first Report on Foreign Correspondence by Brother Jesse M.
White is most thoughtful and suggestive. In the topical style it embodies the best features of that style, and in discriminating judgment it chal'.enges our admiration and almost converts us to · the
method. We greet him most cordially and anticipate many a profitable hour of communing with him as we sit together at the communion table.
·
su~h

Missouri: The prayer of the Grand Chaplain, Rev. Edgar F.
Gee, was most impressive.
The address of the Grand Master indicates the hand of a man of ·
affairs as well as thorough Mason. It is quite long but contains
nothing irrelevant or seemingly unnecessary. We quote a few paragraphs:
In response to the invitation of the Grand Lodge of England to
attend i~s Peace Jubilee, the Grand Master, unable to go in person,
commiss10ned R. W. John Whicher, Grand Secretary, as his proxy,
whose report to the Grand Lodge is of a most interesting character, giving not only. a view of the splendid hospitality accorded to
the visitors during the week of the exercises, but also an extended
revelation of the magnificent scale on which English Masonry is
conducted, especially as to its wonderful charities.
Report on Correspondence-This covers 142 pages and is not
conventional in character, but possibly more valuable, in that Bro.
Whited gives a surriposium of opinions from many Grand Lodges,
on current subjects. The report in fact impresses us as so worthy
that we would be glad could every Mason read its every paragraoph.
And to compensate in some manner for this deprivation we append
herewith his selection and discussion on the subject of German Speaking Lodges.
Montana: In the address of the Grand Master Bradford Webster is embodied the Report of the Grand Secretary, John Whicher,
of matters he noted while in attendance on the Peace Jubilee in England, and we do not hesitate· to devote the space to a part of his report
which is of great interest. Among other matters he says:
·
The oration by Brother Charles H. Victor was a wonderful effort
and only lack of space prevents us from quotations.
Past Grand Master Jesse M. Whited has 122 pages of Correspondence Report, 'topical!y arranged.
His comments are quite caustic.
Nebraska: There was a very f1,1ll report of the work of the
Committee of Masonic Education, which met his hearty approval.
There was a beautiful Memorial Service on the death of the distinguished brethren referred to by the Grand Master in his message.
There is a report on correspondence by Brother Jesse M. Whited.
It .is a topical report and as the brother says~ "For home consumption,"

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nevada: Grand Master Chas. A. Adams is a worker and the
year's snccess is largely to his creait. His message covers eighty
pages, but they are a fund of information.
The . annual oration was delive~ed by Bro: Albert E. Boynton.
I\ splcnclt<l address throughout, as this extract will prove :
.nro. J~sse M. Whited ag:ain submits the report along topical .lines.
.I le 1s makmg the most of this plan, and though written for home consnmption, it contains much of thought for readers abroad.• The views
0£. the _various j1,1risdictions on mooted questions are freely quoted,
with wise comment, and Nevada's address and reports are honored
with numerous quotations.

subjects. This is excellent as well as convenient, and the work
being splendidly done, appeals to us very much. Nova Scotia for 1919
is kindly noticed under a number of these different headings and
our views produced.•

12

New York: The Grand Master presented a splendid Message
to the Craft.
The whole "Message" of the Grand Master is so strong in constructive purpose and fine Masonic inspiration that the reviewer is
tempted to quote ever more extensively. The Brethren who are
particu'.arly interested are advised to write for a copy of the document.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presents his second Report on Correspondence. He summarizes the leading . ideas of the various Proceedings und er a number of striking headings, as Brother Murphy did
before him. The student of Masonic thought, as expressed in the
several jurisdictions, will fi nd this plan most helpful. We believe,
however , that every Grand Lodge should also kriow the individual
sister Grand Lodges as such, -and such a survey California does not
get from the, Correspondence Report. We have profited greatly by
Brother Whited's labors to set forth the attitude of Grand Lodges
toward certain interesting questions, but we wish he might have added
individual reviews, however short, to complete the historic record
of progress.
North Dakota: The most complete and best arranged of the
topical reviews which has come to our table is that prepared by Jesse
M. Whited of California. It is a hand book of most valuab'.e information on a large number of important topics. We have read every line
of this report and shall preserve it for reference in future years.
Its preparation must have entailed a vast amount of time, energy
and patience, but its general excellence is worth all it cost in effort.
We commend and congratulate Brother Whited on his splendid
report.
Nova Scotia : (1919) The report of the Committee on Correspondence is presented by R. W. Bro. Jesse M. Whited and is ve·ry
well worth the time it takes any member of the Craft, who has access
to it, to read. It is splendidly compiled and quite different from any
other review.
Nova Scotia: (1920) The message of the Grand Master is very
full and complete, covers a lot of ground, and deals in an able and
satisfactory manner with a variety of questions :
Brother Jesse M. Whited presented the report of the committee
of correspondence. Under separate headings, such as "Affairs of
State," "Affi'iations," "Masonic Homes\" "Balloting," etc., he quotes
from each Grand Lodge, so that at a g ance one can see what is said
and the views held in each .jurisdiction in reference to these different

13

Ohio: The Annual Oration of Bro. Charles H. Victor was a·
masterpiece, full of Masonic thought and lesson .
A topical report of the Committee on Correspondence closes the
volume, aside from a few statistics. Ohio is fraternally referred to
more particularly with regard to membership and the granting of
Special Dispensations. Bro. Jesse M. Whited edits the report.
Oklahoma: The report on Foreign Correspondence was made
by Jesse M. Whited. In his preface he stated that it was his first
report and he did not follow the forms generally adopted by others,
but he commented upon a great variety of subjects, and copied excerpts from the journals of a great many Grand Lodges.
This scribe, upon examination of the report, made this notation:
Comment on a thousand and one subjects, and furnished a great deal
of information.
·
Pennsylvania:
and able address.

The Grand Master presented a very complete

Philippine Islands: (1919) Brother Charles H. Victor, Grand
Orator, delivered an excellent oration.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits his first report on Fraternal Corresp9ndence. The report is in topical form and is very interesting
readmg.
. Philippine Islands: (1920) Brother Jesse M. Whited presented
his second report on Foreign Correspondence. It is again in topical
form, and is most interesting.
Quebec: Bro. Jesse M. Whited submitted a report on Corres·J>ondence which gives a number of extracts from reports of Sister
Grand Lodges upon a variety of different topics of interest but fails
to convey an idea of the progress and doings of Masonry in the various
Jurisdictions whose annual reports have been forwarded for review.
South Australia: The volume of Proceedings is a finely printed
book of 500 pages, and contains material of much greater interest
than the average Annual Report, which often consists of hundreds of
pages of names and Stati~tics, of great value, no doubt, to Brethren
of the particular Jurisdiction it is primarily intended for but of little
interest to the outsider.
'
The Grand Master's address is most comprehensive.
The report ·on Foreign Correspondence is arranged under headings of subjects dealt with instead of under the various Grand Lodges.
This has much to recommend it, and the report presented is full of
interest treating of so many subjects that a mere list of them would
be too much for a Review of this nature.
South Carolina: He (Grand Master) visited every Masonic
District in the State, conferring the Third Degree at almost every
one. Here is an example well worthy to be followed by all Grand
Masters.

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Brother Webster is a firm believer in the "Knife and Fork · Degree." He favors more frequent banquets to promote social interest
and good fellowship. Well, a free feed, or a circus, seldom fails to
draw a crowd. But we have no use for the Br"ther who attends his
. Lodge for the main reason that he there gets something to ·eat and
drink. He may be a member of a Lodge, but he has never been made
a Mason.
No Review of other jurisdictions. Instead we have a lot of clippings compiled by Brother Jesse M. Whited, on various matters which
are very instructive to the Masonic Student. All the same, we do
wish we. could get another review from P. G. M. Edward H. Hart.
Tennessee: (1919) The Report on Correspondence, 142 pages,
was by Bro. Jesse M. Whited. It is topical. Under "Physical Qualifications," the report of this Committee in 1919 is quoted:
We think Bro. Whited's remarks on this ever-present subject are
well worth quoting and consideration, especially in view of his Grand
Master's holding.
The Grand Master's "Message" and reports of officers and Committees on this volume contain much of intrinsic Masonic interest and
value. We find it har(i, without making this review too long, to notice
and quote all that ought to be of interest to Tennessee Masons.
Tennessee, (1920) The Annual Oration was by Bro. Albert E.
Boynton and it was a good one, but we lack space to quote therefrom.
The Report on Correspondence, 119 . pages, was by Bro. Jesse M.
Whited. It was topical instead of alphabetical. Tennessee was mentioned under several heads.
In his comments under the head of "Bible," "Immortality," "In
God We Trust," "Ministers" and "Religion," runs a thread of criticism
and dislike for the Christian religion as generally held by American
Masons.
Texas: A remarlcable feature of his (Grand Master). address
is that he does not report having made any decisions.
From this it would appear that the Grand Master of Masons in
California does not report all the silly questions which he is asked
to answer and calls his answers "decisions."
For instance, if he is asked if a blind man, or a man with both
legs cut off, is suitable material for the degrees of Masonry, he
does not call it a "decision." Pity that some other Grand Masters
do not follow his example.
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence was compiled
by Bro. Jesse M. Whited, Chairman.
Bro. Whited departs from the usual custom, and, instead of
reviewing the doings of the various Grand Lodges, in alphabetical
order, he treats or discusses the most important questions which
present themselves for solution. Such problems as a General Grand
Lodge, German Masonry, the Higher Degrees, French Masonry, the
Masonic Service Association, and many other subjects are discussed
by him, .with. liberal quotations from the Proceedings of the various
Grand Lodges.
His report is both interesting and instructive. .

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Utah: The Grand Orator ga\te a most interesting address.
The Report on Correspondence is again the work of Brother
Past Grand Master Jesse M. Whited. He follows the plan of a
year ago. We are inclined to think that the topical method adopted
by our Brother is the best of any that has come to our notice.
Under proper explanatory headings he states briefly his own opinion
:ind then. m:ikes excerpts from the ~ifferent Grand Lodge proceedm~s to md.1c~te wha.t has been said upon these various subjects.
Hts rep<:>rt ts mter.estmg and well worth a careful reading for it contains much of information of value to the Craft.
Virginia: Just read that last paragraph again and see how
level headed a man California had-krra Grand Master.
yast la.bor was expended on a Foreign Correspondence report
that ts a f!ltlure purely from its topical form. It bristles with brains
thrown away.
Washington: The Committee on Grand Master's Address
reported:
"No more thorough, comprehensive and thoughtful address,
educational in character, beautiful in appropriate presentation of
interesting data, was ever in our judgment presented to this Grand
Body."
. To this let us add, that few better ones were ever presented
to any Grand Lodge.
.
The Correspondence Report, by Bro. Jesse M. Whited is a ·
~opical report, which, while not easily adaptable to. a short r~view,
ts r.eally of value to those who are permitted to read it. Many
sub1ects are treated:
West Virginia: The annual address of Grand Master Webster
adds much of value to the Masonic operations of the Golden Commonwealth of California.
The report on Foreign Correspondenc~ is from the pen of Brother
Jesse M. Whited. It is in Topical Form, and I don't know how to
review it, and therefore must necessarily "pass it up."
Wyoming: We are pleased to see that Lodges in California
are contributing scholarships foi; the purpose of affording 'vocational or
technical education for the children of the Masonic Home. This is
indeed. Masonic Charity. Let the good work continue.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits his first report on correspondence
and we are pleased to welcome him. His method is somewhat different
from the usual correspondent, but he gives a very interesting report.
The work is topical and quotations are given on each subject.
CATHOLICISM
As stated in our previous reports, we believe that Masonry, as
an organization, has no quarrel with the Roman Catholic Church, as
a religion. Any movement'founded on intolerance cannot succeed.
Unfortunately, the radicals on both sides are considered by the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

general public as spokesmen for the respective organizations and
attract more attention than they properly should. If we will devote
our activities to doing good because it is right, and pay less attention to what the opposition is doing, we have nothing to fear.
Actions speak plainer than words.

are fighting for nourishment. The propaganda of sending money abroad
'may be judge<l ·by observing who gains in the settling of war.

Alabama:
No Mason with a correct understanding of Masonry could think
of warring against the Catholic' Church as a religion. Masonry fights
only Catholicism's presumptous claim to tempora land political power
and in resistance of the unprovoked war it has been making for near
two hundred years upon Masonry.
District of Columbia:
There is reference in the proceedings to fight with the Roman
Hierarchy. We have from the first been on the defensive. We have
Roman Masons among us, and good ones at that, who never hear in
the Lodges an intolerant word. But turn to the Cannon Law of the
Church of Rome and you will find all politics-the power of the Holy
See to depose kings, princes and potentates, to take from them their
municipalities and distribute them according to his sweet will among
his faithful; to absolve men from their oaths as well as deprive them
of their possessions. The cannons are not on lines of religion, superstition nor sorcery, but political domination.
Turn to the books of that famous author, Bishop Ligouri, Catholic
Cyclopedia, Vol. I, and you will find that he makes every priest greater
than the Blessed Virgin, because she raised Christ but once, while any
priest ·can raise Him when he chooses. These are the outrageous and
blasphemous edicts the French Masons would not subscribe to, and
is probably why the holy fathers dubbed them atheists, which so many
gullible American Masons sided in with.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

·*

*.

We have not, however, seen anything in the last year, to diminish
our fear of Romanism. To replenish an army there must be one-half
as many enlistments annually as the army has privates. The "illiteracy"
ban and the native-born requirements have been abolished in our army.
The Hungarian, Polish, Irish, Austrian and Portuguese immigrants
are accepted on landing, enlisted and encamped, where they are taught
English at government expense. How long will it take to Romanize
the army? Every last one of these Roman recruits owe first allegiance
to a foreign Prince.
·
D'abord Catholique Americane ensuite.
Though a coup d.' etat may be ready for us by March 3, New Jersey
has hope, for in the Globe Theatre in August, an actor said, "The Irish
are to recover Ireland, ·the Jews are to have Jerusalem, but the Jews
are to give Atlantic City back to New Jersey."
The average American is daft on spending. money for the relief of
the Far Easter, to the Central Europeji!.n beggar, and to the tricky
Armenian, all of the neglect of our own, native-born, crippled and
unfortunate people. Our religious homes, as well as Masonic homes,

*

*

*

*

*

17

*

"It is hunger that causes the inroads of pests and encroaches on
agricultural' life." He says the "world is still a series of the right to
survive." Well, he has it right, and we might extend the logic of his
philosophy to the intrigue of nations, now so active in the sparring
that is going on in Europe. He says "the spirit of Masonry acquired
a special prominence in the struggle which has ended so triumphantly."
But we cannot see any Masonic triumph. Our work, from the heart,
was effective but not published, nor did it receive any favor. The
triumph, if any, is in the Romish hierarchy. In the contest for a permanent president for the League of Nations, a Belgian Roman got
thirty-four votes to a Swiss Protestants four. The secretary of that
questionable organization (appointed by our own President), is an
Englishman, but an ardent Roman (Sir Eric Drummond). The "combination," when completed, is intended to have lY, times the number
of Romish vot~s ·as of Protestant (and Masonic) votes. France,
Belgium, Poland and Italy all gain in territory, at the expense of
Russia and Germany, while Romish Austria and Hungary are suffered
to side-step.
Mississippi:
Brother Darling (Vermont) seems violently opposed to the Masonic
Service Association. He deplores the controversy between Masonry
and the Roman Catholic Church, and while he disclaims holding any
brief for the church, yet his argument seems to be in justifications of the
attitude of the church rather than of Masonry. In the opinion of this
humble scribe, Mnsonry would never have resented any attack, made
by the church or any other organization, on the institution per se; but
the insiduous advances, looking to entrenchment in governmental
affairs, and the persistent and growing efforts to annihilate our Public
School system, are direct attacks upon the basic principles of Freemasonry. The Institution of Freemasonry has always stood by the
Constitution of our country, and for the integity of her Institutions;
and that power or influence that would attempt to lay violent hands
on these, should receive the condemnation of Masons. Freemasonry
stands for intelligence and enlightenment; and any encroachment upon
our Public School system, by a power that loves darkness rather than
light, and whose material and financial interest is advanced by keeping
its votaries in darkness, must encounter opposition of our great
Fraternity.
Most Worshipful Brother Oliver Lee McKay presented the following Resolutions which were, on motion, unanimously adopted:
Whereas, The Knights of Columbus has recently submitted to the
American Legion a proposition to make use of the sum of six million
dollars of the war chest fund allotted to that organization for the
building of a memorial auditorium to be known as the "Knights of
Columbus Hall," under the auspices of the American Legion; and
Whereas, The war chest fund was created by the American Government, during the stress of war with foreign nations and at a time
when three millions of our boys were in France and Belgium, and was
contributed largely by those who were not members of, or affiliated
by rela:tionship or otherwise, with the membership of the Knights of
Columbus; and

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPQRT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Whereas, The war chest fund was created for the relief of our
boys serving in the American Army at home ancl abroad and not for
the purpose of building auditoriums for the glorification of any Fraternal, Religious or Political organization; and
·
Whereas, The American Legion has declined to accept the money
tendered, for purposes above set forth, unless all restrictions as to its
disposition were withdrawn; therefore,
Be It Resolved: That the Grand Lodge of Masons of Mississippi
in annual Communication assembled, heartily applauds and endorses
the action of the American Legion ,and puts itself on record as strenuously objecting to the disposition of any part of the war chest fund,
no matter in whose custody it may be, except in carrying out the purposes for which it was created, namely, the industrial and vocational
education of our disabled soldiers, who offered their lives upon the
altar of sacrifice, and the children and dependents of such.
South Carolina:
From a Report of the Jurisprudence Committee~ (Louisiana) we
learn that the authorities of the Roman Catholic Church in New Orleans
refused, actually forbade, a Lodge to enter its Cemetery for the purpose
of interring a Brother. We are not' surprised, the Cohorts of the
Romish faith never lose an opportunity to stab Masonry in every conceivable manner and form. Blindness, intolerance, ignorance and
bigotry mark every step of their hard-trodden track.
Vermont:
We carry no brief for the Roman Catholic Church, but any movement on the part of Masons or any association among Masons which
seeks to get into any controversy with that church is an injury to
Masonry and outside the purposes of the Order. There is probably
something in the confessional of the church and some of the so-called
secrets of Masonry which render it best that ·a good Roman Catholic
should not become a member of the Masonic Fraternity, either from
the standpoint of the church or of Masonry, and there the matter
should drop. Masonry is not seeking to make recruits from the Roman
Catholic Church, and the Roman Catholic Church does not want ·its
members to be Masons. While Masonry does not solicit members on
the one hand, on the other the spirit of Masonry is deeply religious and
we have no quarrel with the religion of others ; neither are we to forget
that the Protestant and the Roman Catholic Churches sprang from a
common origin and are both Christian institutions. There is altogether
too much groundless emotion on this question.
Virginia:
We think the Grand Master was needlessly uneasy on account of
Romanism. True, as individuals we are all aware of the priestly
antagonism to our organization, but some of us do not fear it in the
least, for either America or Freemasonry. The Menace did and the
New Age is now doing us harm, for controversy is just what the priests
want. For hundreds of years Rome has been making the very same
fight against human liberty and human enlightenment, and yet their
power is less today than ever before. Even their extensive advertising
through the very creditable work of the Knights of Columbus in the
war does not seem to have deterred young men from seeking our

19

fellowship. Fight Rome and Rome will grow; ignore. Rome and its
influence will diminish. This is a too well proven law to dispute. So
"smile, smile; smile !"

*

*

*

*

*

*

Instead of a Foreign Correspondence (Vermont) report, but called
by that title, there were some essays on some well worn subjects, among
them one headed "Roman Catholic Church," which we did not read
because it has nothing to do with us or we with it. For ages the fulminations of the Popes and Cardinals against our Institution have in
small part fallen harmlessly and in large part added to our growth and
influence. They want controversy for advertising purposes; don't let
us give it to them.
Under all the enthusiasm poured out in that movement, we plainly
read between the lines a hysterical desire to compete for general favor
with the Knights of Columbus. We do not envy them the credit they so
richly earned by good works in France, and for the reason that their
activities were out of place and too evidently for public applause, as
ours would equally have been. That sort of mission is a duty of the
Red Cross and to a lesser degree of the Salvation Army and Y. M. C. A.
Masonry's mission in the world is of a totally . different character.
Even were this not true, the desire to spend vast sums for a junket
after the fighting and hardships were things of the past, was childish
desire for notoriety which should be beneath our dignity, and of no
possible use.
Under the head of "The George Washington National Memorial
Association,'' the Grand Master said in part:
"The organization of this Association, however, has aroused considerable opposition in anti-Masonic quarters. Open expression of this
antagonism is contained in the Catholic Review, 'America.' I quote
the following paragraph from the issue of this review dated December
29, 1917.

"Present conditions tend to make it soon incumbent on Catholic
publicists ,and on all who will not subject their civic rights to the machinations of an oath-bound clique, to expose to the public, as happened
once in our history to a professed Masonic party, the Craft's hidden
activities in public affairs. It is a civic duty now, considering the deliberate mis-representation by which the Scottish Rite manipulators are
plotting to make the Father of our Country a Masonic property, to
'prevent the honored name of Washington, the ideal personification of
real Americanism and the common heritage of all our citizens, from
being degraded into material for Masonic propaganda."
The article itself endeavors to construe Washington's. remarks concerning the Illuminati as referring to Masonic Lodges, and based
thereon charges that Washington denounced Masonry."
To use the French idiom, "It is to laugh." For more than a ·
hundred years, both Protestant and Catholic enemies of Masonry have
tried to disprove Washington's Masonic standing. He condemned the
"Illuminati,'' a political secret order, and very properly, and in one of
his letters did say that he had nothing to do with and had not been
present in any of the English Lodges for years. At this time the
English Lodges in America were under the ban, they being Tory and
disloyal in membership. The Grand Lodge of Virginia, of which he was
a member, refused to recognize any but the "Ancient York" Masonry,

21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

and on our desk is a text-book in which is the following resolution
adopted in 1798:
. Resolved, That if any member of a Lodge under the jurisdiction of
this Grand Lodge shall visit or work in any Lodge of Masons commonly
called Mo~ern Masons, or any Lodge of Masons not working agreeably
to the anc1en~ usages of York Masons, he shall be reprimand.e d by .the
Lodge to which he belongs, and if he should afterwards be guilty of
a similar offence, he ghall be expelled from the Lodge, and be excluded
from the benefits of Masonry.
At the time he wrote the letter alluded to, he was an active member
of. and a P?st Master of Alexandria Lodge, by which he was buried
with Masonic honors. We repeat-"It is to Laugh."

including the lectures. It has been the practice in many cases ~or
Lodges to convene at noon, or even earlier, and confer. th.e Third
Degree upon candidates, working until twelve o'~lock at m1dmght.
In busy rushing cities it is manifestly imp_oss1ble f?r many o~ the
officers of the Lodges to attend Lodge meetmgs durmg the busmess
hours, and in most cases it would be difficult to secure a quorum to
open up, or a sufficient number of proficient men to ~o the·work . .
There are a number of competent, capable, efficient workers m the
city who go from Lodge to Lodge, and fill the place of absent offi~ers.
From four to ten of these men will be found at all Lodge meetmgs,
ready to fill almost any position that they may be called upon to take.
Their ritualistic proficiency is very nearly perfect, and they are at home
in all of the several stations. They may, perhaps, work with such speed
that they do not give proper expression or interpretation to the ritual
but they are regular "bears" for work and .many Masters have cause to
bless them for aid when badly needed. These men are called "rounders."
They will work uncomplainingly for the long a~ternoon with no reward
in sight other than a Lodge supper and a cigar or two. They are
emphati~ally not the "knife and fork brigade," meaning members who
. arrive just in time for the supper but who are too busy to s~ay for the
evening work. These men are really .good Masons, as their work or
business is such that they are free during the day or who are not compelled to labor daily, and most of them are memb~rs w~o have an
abiding love for Masonic work. Nearly every Master m Chicago knows
these "rounders." They are a bunch ?f good fellows, b~t it is. do1;1btful
if they receive credit commensurate with the value of their service m the
cause of Masonry.

20

. CLUBS
With our Lodges swamped with degree work, the Masonic
Club naturally fills a long felt want, and affords an opportunity for
supplying something that the Lodge itself is not now in a position
to give. Of course, their activity might become a serious matter,
but the growth of Clubs throughout the Jurisdictions, and the large
membership of the National League of Masonic Clubs, shows that
there must be a need for them.
Alabama :
Craftsman Club, of Ann Arbor, is a club of students at the University of Michigan, who are Masons, having for its purpose the
promotion of "the principles of Masonry among the students at that
great institution." It is "under the jurisdiction of one of the lodges of
A~n. ·Arbor" ai;id a,, few years ago Grand Lodge "granted them the
• privilege of a ritual and Grand Master Eddy declares that nowhere in
the State is "found a more perfect rendition of the work that is being
put on by this Craftsman Club."
District of Columbia:
. . If there is '.In activity that needs our encouragement and support,
1t 1s t~e Masonic Clubs. They are of immeasurable advantage to the
unaffiliated Brethren. They are a source of strength in the several departments of the United States Government. They enable their members
to become better acquainted, and to better serve the fraternity with
greater efficiency by close contact and good fellowship. I have attended
several meetings during the year, and it was pleasing to see the interest
displayed.
Florida:
"ROUNDER'S CLUB"
There is one Masonic semi-organization in Chicago that is unique
and nowhere else in the United States is such an organization known.
There ar~ .over 170 Lodges in t.he. c!ty of <;hicago who are receiving so
man)'. petitions f?r ?egrees that 1t 1s 1mposs1ble to confer them at evening
meetmgs, and. 1t 1s frequently found necessary to meet during the
hours of daylight. Under the rules of the Grand Lodge of Illinois
the degrees must be conferred upon candidates separately and entirely,

Georgia:
In the Cities· of Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Milledgville and
other places there are Masonic Clubs doing splendid service, some of
them maintain club rooms where the Masons can gather, meet one
another and thus the real ~pirit of fellowship greatly increased. But
they are doing a far greater work in the ~issemination o~ Masoi;iic
knowledge. Discussions are had, lectures given and often mstruct1ve
programs rendered. I commend most highly the work of each of them
and trust that clubs of like character may be organized in other places.
Not only as a means of spreading Masonic knowledge and increasing
Masonic study, but they ar~ rendering a great service in i:nany c.ases as
the organized means by which the Masons do much work m the mterest
of civil affairs and humanity.
Maryland:
I admit with all of you that there are Lodges that are doing their
full duty. I admit with any of you that if you want t.o find the ~est
exhibition .of what a Masonic Lodge ought to be you will go back mto
the country Lodges where only a few Brethren are raised each year.
You will find that their meetings are held regularly whether they have
any work or not, and that they are truly inculcating the principles of this
great Fraternity and making the initiates understand wh.at they m~~n.
But I want to tell you, Brethren, that when you come mto the _ci~1cs
you will find in a great many cases a lot of very poor clubs cla1mm.g
to be Masonic Lodges. Not always, of course; but when I see Masomc
l.Ddges contemplating the introduction of swimming pools, bowling
alleys, billiard tables ·and other things besides in Masonic Temples, I

22

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

wc.mder what Masonry is comii:ig to. Because to me Masofiry is not a
t~mg of pl~asure, except the JOY of brotherhood-and that is a very
~hffer.ent. th mg. f;om. pleasure. Masonry is work. Masonry is a great
11lummatmg spmt given to us from on high for a great purpose.
·
Massachusetts:
Th~re _is, however, in mr judgment an element of danger to the
Fraternity m too great a multiplying of these clubs and in the encouraging of. any !<lea tha.t they are to take over or become the center of
Masonic social relatiof!s.. If Lodge meetings are likely to be the more
looked upon _as occasions only of degree conferring and Lodges as
degree factories, so to. speak, then the club idea becomes a distinct
menace to the effectuat!ng of the true purpose and intent of our order.
If su.ch club membership prompts a less frequent attendance at Lodge
!Ileetmgs or a less cordial support of Lodge work and activities, then
1t becomes harmful and not helpful.
CORRESPONDENCE COMMITTEE REPORTS
It is to be regretted that the Correspondence Committee
Reports of the various Grand Lodges are not available to the .
general membership. The work done by the Committee is rewarded
only by the pleasure that the Correspondent himself gets from performing his task. Owing to the H. C. L. some of the Jurisdictions
have deemed it wise to limit ·the space allotted the Correspondence
Report, which, we believe, is ill advised.
Grand Lodge Proceedings ge~erally contains a lot of matter
and "junk" which is of no particular use or interest to anyone.
It could be eliminated and the space given the Correspondence
Committee with profit to all concerned.
Connecticut:
Last year Brother Knepper requested review of their respective
States by Gra_nd Representatives. On this, he comments: "Yes, 'a
few ?f them did send very readable reviews,' but-never again."
Florida:
We conclude, however, that he does not intend to say that the
b.est part of the. report was. like the report of the preacher's sermon
hked best by the small boy who said that the part he liked best in the
preacher's sermon was when he said "Amen."
Kansas:
·
The Committee on Correspondence of which M.". w:. Brother
Charl~s L. ~rockwa)'. is Chairm.an, submits a report to Grand Lodge
covering various topics and which partakes more of the nature of a
lecture than a Report on Corre·spondence, which is intended to cover
the doings in othe; Grand Jurisdictions. He begins his report we pres1:1m.e, based on his knowledge of the membership of his own Jurisd1ct1on,, to the effect that the 1;1sual .Report on Correspondence, covering
t,he reviews of other Proceedings, 1s one of practically no value whatever to the members of the Craft except those who fortunately or unfortunately may sit at the "Round Table." He states that there is no
need of a committee to assure the Craft that the Grand Lodges through-

23

out the world have at sometime during the year held their Annual
or Quarterly Communications, that the Grand Masters submitted
reports or addresses, the Grand Secretaries reported great increases in
membership, new Lodges formed, etc. We do not propose to vie the
membership of Kansas with that of South Dakota, but we feel justified
in defending the Craft of this state to the extent of saying that we have
many hundreds of members who read the Report on Correspond·ence
most vigorously and venture to comment on what has been done in the
various states more than that relating to any other portion of our printed
Proceedings. This may not be true with the Brethren of South Dakota
and indeed it may not apply to some other Grand Jurisdictions, but it
would seem that this matter would depend largefy upon the efforts
of the Grand Officers in the years past to bring about an interest in
the Lodges along the line of reading Masonic literature, especially the
Constitution, By-Laws, Regulations, Landmarks and the Proceedings
of their own Grand Lodge and particularly the Report on Corres-.
pondence. Whether the latter is read and is of interest to' the Craft
depends largely on the writer of the report-whether it Is presented in
such a manner as to be of interest to the Brethren and worthy of the
·
time employed in its reading.
New Hampshire:
This is the thirteenth successive report which I have been permitted to perpetrate. The number is by no means looked upon by me
as being an unlucky one. Rather than that, I deem it a piece of good ·
luck. To be sure, it has meant that much of labor has been involved.
But what of that? It means, most of all, that I have been the one man
in all New Hampshire who has been permitted to absorb from its very
source, the great things of our. world-wide fraternity. It means that
I have been kept in a splendid Masonic atmosphere all the time. It
means that I have been in personal touch with marked Masonic
devotees, the world around. It means that I have had the opportunity,
as a contributor, to add my mite to the whole, no matter how great my
failure. What better luck than that could one expect? The law of
compensation surely bobs up and rewards every correspondent. Fortune
came my way when the official hand drafted me for this service. ·
New Mexico:
A review of Masonry for th.e year reveals several interesting
developments. I. Numerically, Masonry experienced a · phenomenal
growth, probably due more to good financial conditions than to anything
else. Some concern is felt for fear · quality will suffer on account of
the enormous influx of material.
2. So-called "higher bodies" in their desire for material, have
stirred up a feeling of antagonism in Blue Lodges by soliciting candidates before men were eligible for "higher degrees." Wise heads are
needed or damage will be done. There are plenty of antagonisms,
with forces wholly outside of the order, to demand all of our attention.
3. The regularity of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico is being
questioned by an "outlaw" organization of that country. It is charged,
and it appears with some degree of truth, that Scottish Rite Masonry
is backing the "outl<!,w." New Mexico's startd is clear cut on this
question, and was taken after careful investigation and mature delib~ _,
eration.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

. 4. The Masonic Service Association has passed through the "baby"
We
hope its .first fea.r .of taking a definite stand for school legislation of a
progressive type will wear off. We shall favor the removal of "Service"
from the title unless it means just what the word implies. ·
. 5.. At a special .communication of the Grand Lodge of England,
to which representatives from our Grand Jurisdictions were invited
for a _Peace celeb_ration, .England made warm Masonic friends. Representatives speak 111 glowmg terms of the splendid entertainment and of
t!ie spirit of comradeship that was fostered at the meeting. It marked an
epoch in international Masonic history.
6. Public education, long neglected, is getting much needed
encouragement from many Grand Lodges. This is as our forefathers
in Masonry would have it.

are rendered by Grand Masters while the number increases as the
Jurisdictions grow smaller?

24

per10~ and from all appearances will be a healthy, robust youth .

· West Australia:
The Foreign Correspondence Committee's report takes the form
of synopsis of the Masonic opinion as evidenced by the various Proc~edings. There is apparently a growing tendency to take a wider
view of th~ good that wi:t ensue by Masons as a body giving its weight
for or agamst many of the big questions of the day-such as Political
Reform, Prohibition, Education, Labour difficulties, &c.-as they affect
the proletariat. The position has got to be met-our principles are so
definite, and our objects of brotherhood are so pronounced that it
would · seem inconsistent to stand aloof and not use the n'ieans of
friendly discussion and enlightment on such questions as we are called
upon to decide outside of our Lodges. Matters which make for the
peace of the community, the betterment of the classes, the leveling of
the body politic, are of the utmost importance to ourselves and our
homes, and the writer can see no reason why the thinking members of
our Order could not in the South clear away some of the cobwebs
which cloud the vision of those more closely affected, instead of resorting to much of the clap-trap which is at present the custom.
DECISIONS
There is no doubt but what the time of the Grand Master is
with answering a lot of fool questions that could
easily be solved by reference to the written law. It is easier of
course to ask for an opinion than to solve the question yourself.
You also have a "come back" on your advisor. The Grand Lodge
is largely responsible for this, as the policy is to legislate for every
possible question that has or may arise. This condition exists not
only in Masonic government, but also in our National, State and
local affairs. We could with great advantage follow the English
method and allow the Lodges to govern themselves more, and let
the Grand Lodge concern itself only with matters of general policy.
l~rgely taken up

Alabama:
' Grand Master Isaac Kinsey found it unnecessary to report any
being able to answer all questions by reference to the Code. Ca~ ·
some one t!xplain why it is that in great Jurisdictions few decisions

25

British Columbia:
Once more the Grand Master (Canada) called attent~on to the
number of questions submitted to him for decision-questions
which, for the most part, would have been unnecessary if the enquirer had taken the trouble to refer to the Book of Constitutions.
To reduce these needless questions to a minimum the Grand
Master had the rulings of previous Grand Masters codified, and
recommended that they be printed. This may help, but one who
will not study the Book of Constitutions is not likely to wade
through a mass of "decisions"-especially when it is so easy to
write to the Grand Master.
Idaho:
There is a persistency to do away, to a very large extent, with
the Grand Master's so-called decisions, but in the volume before
us (Missouri) we find twenty-two questions and answers under the
head of "Decisions." Of these questions four are answered by the
single word "yes" and eight by the single word "no." The answer
to· one question follows : "Answer-See and follow Section 107 of
the By-Laws. It covers the case." Is the time not ripe for Grand
Masters to pass up the matter of "Decision" unless they have
something that merits that title? The matter of decision has not
added anything to what is otherwise an admirable address.
Illinois:
One of the most hopeful signs of .the times as indicated by the
proceedings of the various Grand Lodges is a disposition to stabilize existing laws . During the year there have been very few decisions on the part of the Grand Masters, and such as have been
presented have in · a large measure related to the interpretation of
local laws, and, so far as the writer has been able to discern, no
· startling nor alarming decisions have been made by any Grand
Master, nor has there been any disposition on the part of anyone
to deviate from the established rules and conditions of the Society.
One of the greatest needs in the Masonic world today is less tinkering with existing rules and regulations. While the amendment
habit has been by no means conquered, yet there is a very strong
disposition on the part of all Grand Lqdges to correct their books
of statutes as far as possible and then to let them alone. It is predicted that the time is not far distant when a decision of a Grand
Master will be a very rare thing, because the laws, the rules and
regulations of the society will become so well understood that
there will be no necessity for any Grand Lodge official putting an
interpretation upon them, other than that which is implied in the
law itself.
Montana:
Happily all questions that have been refer.red to me have been
such that they could be answered by reference to our statutes as
they now exist, and it has not been necessary to further encumber
our Code with decisions. Personally, I am of the opinion that our

26

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

subordinate Lodges should be hemmed around wit~ as few la:vs
as possible; that they should be gh:en the opportunity ~o exercise
their own judgment in all matters msofar as the exercise thereof
does not conflict with the rights of others.
North Dakota:
Not a single one of the decisions required deep thought .to
settle. Had the individual who addressed the Grand Master w1~h
. the request for a decision used his eyes. to good effect and his
brains and common sense even in the slightest degree, he could
have found in the code approved decisions and proper answers
without adding to the burdens o_f the Grand Mast~r. When, oh
when will the Masters of constituent Lodges begin to read the
code 'of laws?
I am more and more impressed with the necessity of some
action in this Jurisdiction compelling a knowledge o! t~e code and
approved decisions. I feel sure that I am wholly w1thm the truth
when I say that ·seventy-five per cent of all the deci~ions (so-c~lled)
which Grand Masters are called upon to make arise out of ignorance of the law. Page after page of decisions are reported which
are nothing more or less than constructions of either existing. l:iws
or approved decisions. When Grand Masters rep.ort no dec1s10ns
it is generally with the. statemen1 th~t the que~t10~~ asked w~re
easily answered by calling the attention of the in?1_v1dual seekin~
the information to the code or some approved dec1s1on. Would 1t
· not be wise for this communication to take action tending to compel
a more general knowledge on the part of lodge o.fficers of the l~ws
and decisions of our Jurisdiction? We are entering on a campaign
of education and enlightenment if we take advantage of the opportunities to be offered by the Masonic Service Association, and
it is my conviction that a study of our laws and procedure would
be of great benefit to the Craft in general and the officers of constituent Lodges in particular.
Oklahoma:
I beg to remind the Craft that the greater portion of the correspondence demanded of the office of the Grand Master is entirely
unnecessary. Questions .that are clearly answered in the. const.i tution and code are submitted to the Grand Master for cons1derat10n,
and much of this correspondence could and should be avoided.
I would recommend to the· Officers and Brethren of the constituent Lodges that when confronted with a problem, first diligently ~earch their constitution and code, then if in doubt, to present their difficulty to the District Deputy Grand Master, who
many times could solve their difficulties, and who will always be
ready and anxious to be of service; and finally, if necessary, calling
· upon the Grand Ma-ster. This procedure would save the Grand
Master a great deal of unnecessary correspondence.
Virginia:
These are the nightmare of a Grand Master's life. There have
been some 130 of these questions submitted during my term. None
of them, to my mind, reached the dignity of a decision. Ninety-eight
per cent. of them have been answered by reference to the code of
1915. It would seem that a majority of the Masters and Secretaries
are not aware that there is such a book in existence as the "Code."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

27

This is not as it should be; the law should be looked up by the
local Lodge and the Grand Master relieved of the toilsome duty of
looking it up and advising where it can be found.
Still there is another side.' Many, if not most, Lo~es are
afflicted with some old Brother whose zeal is spasmodic and who
comes occasionally to the Lodge to s~ow how .much he kno:vs and
how little the Master knows. He raises questions out of his hazy
and incorrect memories of Masonic law. The Master wisely does
not engage in controversy but, learning from the great American
game, he "passes the buck" to. the Grand Master. Consequently,
even if the Grand Master practically knows that the Master could·
easily quote the law, it is best that he have behind him silencing
authority.
West Virginia:
He states that requests for opinions and decisions are the nightmare of a Grand Master's life. There have been some one hundred
and thirty of these questions su~mi.tted during .h!s term.. Non~ of
them to his mind reached the dignity of a dec1s1on. Nmet y-e1ght
per cent. of them have been answered by reference to the code .of
1915. It would seem that a majority of the Masters and Secretaries
.are not aware that there is such a book in existence as the "Code."
This is not as it should be; the law should be looked up by the
local Lodge and the Grand Master relieved of the toilsome duty of
looking it up and advising where it can be found. This, however,
is universal in all of our Grand Lodges, and seemmgly can't be
checked. Lodge officers, instead of referring to digests and codes.,
seemingly prefer to appeal to Grand Masters purely a s an annoyance.
DEGREE WORK
One of the most important questions before · the Fraternity
today is the vast amount of degree work that is being done. Lodges
have practically ceased to perform any other function. Various
remedies have been suggested, but no Grand Lodge has yet been
able to lay down a rule that offers a solution of this troublesome
question.
Well p~id Secretaries, large stipendiary lists and expensive
Temples have been · some of the contributing causes to the desire
and necessity of Lodges having a large membership. We believe
that if a membership limit was fixed beyond which a Lodge could
not go, and they be allowed to confer degrees only on a certain
fixed number thereafter during a year, it would aid in solving the
question. It would tend to the formation of new Lodges. Less
commercialism and more education should be the policy.
Alabama:
Grand Lecturer Seipp reported that in six months t ini'e he
had aided the Grand Master in raising 799 candidates, an average
of more than four per day including Sundays. We suspect they
were taken in " in droves."
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

British Columbia:
Seemingly Masonry in New York is developing, or degenerating-into a benefit soeiety. The Grand Master said:
"F.very member of the Fraternity in this State, for $3.50 paid
upon initiation and fifty cents per year thereafter, is in effect insured, as to himself, wife and family, forever against want. After
your initiation you pay the Trustees fifty cents a year as Jong as
you are able, and yourself, wife and children are at all times eligible to the Home."

every initiate. Let not our ceremonies degenerate into mere "degree mi!ls"; but with a steadfast purpose let us strive to implant
firmly and deeply into every heart those great moral precepts and
truths contained in the lessons we would teach.

28

Colorado:
In one way there cannot be too many Masons, because Masonry causes men to be good citizens, and never in the history of
the world were we in need of good citizenship more than todayyet I am convinced that there is a vast difference between a
''Mason" and "one on whom the Masonic degrees have been conferred." The same conditions do not exist in all Lodges or in the
different localities.
I feel that some of our Lodges are admitting too many to be
able to properly teach them-or giving them an opportunity to
learn what Masonry really is, arid that such Lodges, unless extreme
caution is taken, might-to quote from a Grand Master in another
Grand Jurisdiction-"deteriorate into degree mills."
·
There are instances known of men having been solicited to
join our Fraternity-which is entirely unmasonic. Again is it a
prevailing custom to have our members, and some even before they
have received the Master Mason's degree, solicited to join other
bodies which require membership with us as a prerequisite.
Idaho:
We believe it is the deliberate judgment of this Grand Lodge
that the time limit between the reception of the petition and the
ballot should never be set aside. We are strongly of the conviction that the desire to hurry men through the degrees of Masonry
is born of a misguided ambition. When a man applies for the degrees of Masonry, is elected, initiated, passed and raised, this
period should be made one of the impressive times of his life and
any short cut that detracts from the occasion is unfortunate.' All
such practices as shortening the time, and curtailing the degree
work, have a tendency to commercialize the institution,' and cheapen
it in the estimation of the candidate.
·

*

*

*

*

*

*

The Grand Jurisdiction of Idaho is enjoying its full share ·of
the great wave of Masonic activity and prosperity that is rolling
over the entire country. Our lodges are besieged with petitions
so numerous that they can scarcely find the time necessary to
confer the degrees, and while this condition is a most desirable
one, ye~ i~ .h.as its serious and thoughtful 'aspect. It brings with it
respons1b1hties that must not be overlooked or evaded. Our first
great concern must be to Se\! that no upworthy applicant gains
admission. Let us select our material with the greatest care ever
remembering that a lodge can rise no higher in the mora'i and
intellectual sphere than the units which compose its membership.
Our next great concern must be a constant endeavor to confer
the degrees in such an impressive, dignified and intelligent manner
that in the fullest sense of the term, we make a Master Mason of

*

*

*

*

*

29

*

The Grand Master granted forty-one dispensations.' Sevi;nteen
of these were granted to Lodges "to make more than five Entered
Apprentices at one communication." A degree mill that cannot
turn out more than five in one evening as a finished product needs
a new "spark plug" or something,' and that is just what the Grand
Master supplied.
Manitoba:
· But conferring degrees is not· making Masons. One Mason
who practices brotherly love, relief and truth is worth ten whose
only evidence that they are of the Craft is their receipt for dues.
A Lodge which is only a highly organized degree-conferring machine, however efficient, is prostituting its functions, is in fact a
complete failure. Lodges meeting at unseasonable hours and in
protracted sessions, candidates formed into groups, degree-conferring teams set up-it was not thus that Masonry built up its moral
fiber.
It is submitted that no Lodge is justified in accepting an application for initiation unless it is prepared to undertake to instruct that
candidate in the principles of Masonry and to set him at some
useful service to his brethren or the community, to the end that
he may be an ornament to the Society of which he has become a
member.
Nebraska:
Henry S. McE!roy (Kentucky) delivered a very comprehensive
address. of sixteen pages; reporting on Masonic Activities and
special dispensations, he says:
"During my administration I have granted so many dispensations to confer the Entered Apprentice degree on more than five
candidates at one time that I deem it economy as well as advisable
' to omit from this address the names of the Lodges to which granted
and the dates. I have granted 162 during the year and they are on
file in the office of the Grand Secretary. I have given this matter
sei:ious thought and am fully persuaded that this regulation should
be repealed and so recommend."
To the mind of the writer it seems that it were far better that
no dispensation be granted than that the regulation be ignored. We
are so bent on making members and are paying such little regard
to the making of Masons that Ancient Craft Masonry is becoming
a mere stepping stone for their attainment to so-called "higher
degrees."
North Dakota:
The present situation in this Jurisdiction where classes range
from ten, twenty, thirty and possibly forty candidates at one time
impr.esses one as putting the emphasis altogether too strong on
numbers rather than quality. It is cheapening Masonry fast and
reducing it to a commercial basis where there is a mad scramble to

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

so

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

confer degrees rather than make real Masons and impress candidates with the serious purposes of 'Masonry.

*

*

*

*

*

*

The most striking fact that greeted me upon opening the various volum.es of Proceedings was the unprecedented numerical
growth of Masonry. - Our doors are throngeq by thousands of candidates seeking admission. From Maine to California, from Minnesota to Texas, conditions are the same. Lodges have become
mere degree mills. Degrees are being conferred on classes instead of individuals. · The degree work is done so frequently that
it has become mechanical, often without spirit or meaning to either
the officers of the Lodge or the candidates.
·
South Carolina:
Brother Homer stated that· the Baltimore Lodges had been · so
crowded with work that it became necessary for the Deputy Grand
Master and himself to assist the Masters and to shorten the work
in the Third Degree. They raised no less than 799 "men" between
them during the preceding six months, in "classes" ranging from
nine on March 3rd to forty-six on March 6th. We must accord
the cake to Brother Homer for large ·classes in the Third Degree.
But why not "shorten" the work of the Third Degree as our Brethren do in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania, lone of all the Jurisdictions
in the United States, follows the work of the Grand Lodges of
England and Scotland, which surely must be the correct ·r itual.
Utah:
Masonry will never suffer, when each Lodge does its work
properly and a'Ccording to Masonic usages. There is no good reason to undertake to crowd matters. When applicants become in. sistent that Masonry shall accommodate itself to their desires and
convenience, then a halt may well be called. There is; or should
be much in Masonry, beside a mere degree machine, calculated to
turn out the largest possible number of members-not Masonsand at the same time pour into the Lodge treasury an uninterrupted
stream of shekels. Masonry will not lose anything that is worth
having if it does not work itself to death to secure members and
funds for fraternity fanfares.
Virginia:
If things go on as now it may be well to limit amount of work
permitted and require considerable probation before and between
degrees. A waiting list would be no evil and the effect would be to
compel the formation of more Lodges. If a fixed number of members were dictated it would work well. Masters are too eager fcir a
record of work done and there must be a curb of some kind or we
will soon be swamped with half-baked Masons who know nothing
of Masonry save its ritual. We have some now who are lively in
the Shrine and Consi.s tory who have no conception of the beauties
of Masonry and still less of its ·duties.
DUAL MEMBERSHIP
Several of the · Jurisdictions allow dual membership, and we
understand that generally it has proven satisfactory. It would "help
new Lodges if they could, by this means, associate with them men

of experience who, for sentimental reasons, would be glad to participate in their activities, but do not care, for sentimental reasons,
to dimit from their "Mother .Lodge."
Massachusetts:
The advantages of our rule permitting members~ip in more
than one Lodge have been made more apparent durmg the last
year by reason of the institution of so ma_ny new Lod~es. Before
this rule was in effect,' the · natural feelmg of affech~n for ~he
Mother Lodge prevented many of our Brethren from mterestmg
themselves in new ventures. Now, many of our Brethren lend
valuable support to two or more Lodges, finding for themselves
wider fields for service and association.
This privilege is granted by only a few Grand Lodges t~ their
members and this fact has been brought out very clearly m the
organization of these new Lodges.
Many Brethren who hail from ot~er Jurisd!ct!ons, ~ut are now
resident here, have expressed the desire of affihatmg with a Lodge
or Lodges within this Jurisdiction to the end that they may more
freely enjoy the privileges of Freemasonry an9 find a field where
they may satisfy their desire for Masonic service. Many of these
Brethren are deterred by the natural feeling tha~ they do not wish
to break home ties by taking dimits. fro~ t~e~r M?ther Lodges.
It leaves our resident Brethren of other Jur1_sd~chons m ?- ~uandary,
for they are obliged to decide between a d1m1t or depnvmg themselves of the pleasure and privileges of membership in a Lodge near
at hand. Of course the privileges of visitation are always opc;n
and urgent to these Brethr~n, . but the_y themselve_s feel a certam
hesitancy in accepting ~bsp1tahty. c?ntt.nuously while they are deprived of the opportumty of partlc1pat1on .
It is fortunate that our Massachusetts Brethren who are now
residents in other States can, without breaking our regulations, join
in the active work of Freemasonry in thq.se communities where
the circumstances of life have placed them. It would seem that the
advantages of plural membership outweigh its disadvantages and
that it furthers rather than hinders the interests of the Craft in
general. There must be thousands of Masons, scatter_ed ~ll over
the world who would like to keep up active and responsible mterest
in the Masonic work, but who are prohibited by the exclusive
membership regulation.
. DUES
There is a tendency throughout the various Jurisdictions to
increase the amount of dues a member should pay. The fees
exacted by some Lodges are ridiculous, and it almost seems impossible that they can maintain themselves from the mite received.
Masonry is a luxury and not a necessity, and for that reason should
be worth a higher pdce.
British Colqmbia:
The Grand Master (Arkansas) caused to be sent to each of
the Lodges a long list of questions concerning the membership of
the Lodge; its firtancial standing, and its relation to war activities.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC&

From a summary of the answers we learn that a number of the
Lodges manage to exist on annual dues of $1.00 per member, while
none charge more than $5.00 The fees for the degrees range
from $25.00-the amount charged by two hundred and eighty-five
Lodges-to $50.00-charged by only two.

admitting women into Masonic Lodges. France, by this action, is
furnishing another argument against theit recognition by Grand
Lodges that have as yet taken no action.

32

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

Lodge dues is another matter which claimed his attention.
He thought that the dues of many Lodges are entirely too lowhaving regard to the increased cost of living-and recommended
that the dues be fixed at a figure which will pay the running expenses of a Lodge with9ut encroaching on the fees for initiation.
~t is probable, he said, that the adopt.ion of this plan might result
m the temporary loss of some members, but as he also correctly
observed, "If a man cannot afford to pay such an amount for his
Lodge dues as will cover his share of all its ordinary expenses
he cannot afford to Join the Order and ought not to do so."
'
If Michigan has felt the increased cost . of living it cannot be
to any serious extent. It appears that in that favored State some
Lodges have been conferring the three degrees for $21.00, and have
been charging $1.00 per annum for dues. The Grand Master was
of the opinion that no Lodge could operate successfully at these
figures, and recommended that $30.00 be fixed as the minimum fee
for the degrees and $2.00. as the minimum dues.

Louisiana:
Many of our country Lodges in this and other States, because
their overhead charges are low, fail to accumulate a treasury sufficient in size to offer speedy assistance to a distressed brother and
more especially they are no·t in a position to make refund to a l~dge
in another State when they are obliged to use their own funds for
such purposes. We are firm believers in a full treasury.
Washington:
We all know abo'ut the brother who "will never leave my
Mother Lodge" and when we pin him down we genera,lly find that
the dues there are about $2.00, while he is participating in the
activities which it takes $6.00 to $12.00 due~ to maintain.
ORDER OF THE EASTERN ST AR
The recent action of the Grand Master of Pennsylvania in
requiring all members of the Masonic Fraternity to sever their
connection with the Order of the Eastern Star, has caused considerable discussion and comment. Undoubtedly his action was due to
local conditions. There is no doubt but what the Eastern Star is
a valuable adjunct to the Fraternity, even though it is not a part of
it. The success of the Masonic Homes in a number of States is
due to the good work done by the members of this Order as well
as the financial support which they have given.
We are awaiting with interest the report of the International
Masonic Congress that is being held in Geneva, where some zealous
French Masons are endeavoring to commit that body to the idea of

33

Canada:
I have been called on to rule that an organization called "The
Eastern Star," whose membership is composed of women, the
relatives of Masons, and whkh have also attached to each of their
lodges a few Masons as patrons, is clandestine. I decline to rule,
as I know nothing about the Order, and have been assured by
some of the male patrons that the Order does not claim to be
Masonic. However, in the proceedings of the Board of General
Purposes of the Grand Lodge of England I find the following:
"The Board's attention is being increasingly drawn to sedulous
endeavors which are being made by certain bodies unrecognized as
Masons by the United Grand Lodge of England, to induce Freemasons to join their assemblies. As all such bodies which admit
women to membership are clandestine and irregular, it is necessary
to caution Brethren against being inadvertently led to violate their
obligations by becoming members of them or attending their meetings. Grand Lodge, nine years since, approved the action of the
Board in suspending from all Masonic ri~hts and privileges two
Brethren who had contumaciously failed to explain the grave Masonic irregularity to which attention is now again called, and it is
earnestly hoped that no occasion will arise for having again to
institllte disciplinary prnceedings of a like kind."
District of Columbia:
There is no mistake about the enormous help the women of
the Eastern Star are to us, and now that the 19th amendment is
made to the Constitution, they may demand a fuller membership
in Masonry and in the church priesthood.
Florida:
. Amon~ the rulings which he was asked to make was one that
. "an orgamzation called the Eastern Star, whose membership is
composed of the wives, daughters, and relatives of Masons and
which have also a few Mason members of their chapter as Patrons,
is clandestine." He declined to so rule, saying that he knew nothing about the order and had been assured by some of the male
patrons of the order that it does not claim to be Masonic.
Kansas:
The Report on Correspondence covers the Proceedings of Kansas for 1919. Reference is made to our position in regard to Freflch
Masonry. We will add no comments, rather preferring to wait
until our French Brethren finish the job of voting on the proposition of again admitting the ladies as members of the Craft. We
understand such action is now being taken. We admit a weakness
for a nice looking lady but cannot bear the thought of watching
her attempt to "ride the goat."

*

*

*

*

*

*

The writer of this report was importuned and accepted an invitation a short time ago to attend an entertainment given by one
of the ladies' orgaaizations who hold their meetings in one of our

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonic halls, and while the entertaipment was n?t given in the
hall proper, but in the ba.nq~et rooi:i, 1t was advertised and known
as a "Masonic" circus and 1t certamly was even m~re ~han th<1;t,
as the old "midway" of the ancient days of the _Worlds !"air, for _dm
and noise could scarcely be used as a comparison and m the midst
of the re~elry, one of the tables which was used a.s .a place for
resting, gave Wl!-Y and two of t~e ladie,~ were ba~ly mJured. And
all of this was · improperly credited to Masonry.

Maryland:
This correspondent is not opposed to the Order of the Eastern
Star, having been an honored member of that organization for
years, though now demitted, as demanding too much of his time,
but not lacking in interest, as many a Brother or Sister hereabouts
can testify, but I raised the que~tion of authorizing "by special.
legislation the Secretaries of the particular Lodges to furnish information to the Secretaries of the Chapters of the Order of the
Eastern Star as to the standing of any Mason who is or may have
been a member of any of the Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction,
which may be necessary for the purpose of obtaini.ng membership
in that Order." I am not criticizing the Order of the Eastern Star,
but I am questioning the propriety, not to say prerogative, of any
Secretary furnishing such information to any outside organization.
Massachusetts:
I am told that wives often view our Order with distrust,' because
there are secrets belonging to it that their husbands do not permit
them to know. I have found little serious conjugal trouble on this
account, but if there are any here who have; let me read the oldfashioned words of a historian. Perhaps he belonged to this
Lodge; I don't know. He is an old-fashioned writer, and he uses
old-fashioned language. He says:
"The good Mason in his family is high without severity; condescending, without meanness. His commands are gentle; indeed
his wishes are commands, for all are equally ready to make him
happy. To his wife, he is a tender husband, not a usurping lord.
To his children, he is a kind and providential father, not a domineering tyrant. To his servants, he is both friend and employer.
His home, whether a cottage or a palace, is, while he is present,
the habitation of peace. When there, he leaves it with reluctance.
When absent, his return is expected with great avidity."
That sounds pretty good. If all t h is were generally k nown and
believed, and if we Masons lived up to it, the first question a young
lady would a sk a young man proposing marriage would be, ''Are
you a Mason? If so-yes."

34

*

*

*

*

*

*

Kentucky:
.
In the drive to raise $1,000,000 for our new Home, ~e h'.1-ve had
faithful allies in the members of the Eastern Star, wh1~h is composed principally of the wives, daughters, mothers, widows and
sisters of Masons. Many of their Chapters have freely and voluntarily contributed $100 to this f_u nd. and some as ~uch as $250, my
Chapter at L ebanon, Ky., contributmg $250, and s·a1d Chapters contributing, ·all told this year, $3,265.
From my talk with many of the leading i;iembers of the Order
of the Eastern Star, I find that they are. a~l'C1ous to unselfishly cooperate with ai:id aid us, not only !n bmldu:ig .th<; ~ew Hpme, .but
also in maintaining it as it is done m other JUnsd1chons. I believe
it is the feeling of the Grand Chapter of the Order of the _Eastern
Star which convenes in Lexington next week, to pledge itself to
rais~ $100,000 for some specified building on the site of the n·e:v
Home, and also to contribute to its ma.intenan~e ~pon the condition that such building be known as their ~ontnbutlon as ·a mem~­
rial to their Order and have a representative on our Board of Directors in an advisory capacity. I think their request a ".ery ~odest
one, and I think. this arran~e~ent can b<; made effective without
doing violence to our Constitution or Anc1en~ Land~arks; In any
event the suggestion is worthy of sy~pathet1c con.s1derabon :ind I
recommend that a committee be ai;>pomted to advise a practicable
plan to make effective this suggestion.
·
.
.
F or the information of the Grand Lodge, I will say th<1;t. m
Indiana the Order of the E astern Star and Masons have a JO!nt
Home with two ' hundred inmat~ s on the co~tage plan and ma1htained jointly, with Eastern Star representatives on the Board.
A similar arrangement prevails in North C_arolin'.l, District of
Columbia, Michigan, Missouri, Arkansas, W1sconsm, Alabama,
Florida and Nebraska.
In Mississippi the Masons ~ave a fine Home and the .0. E. S.
help s4pport it. They have bu1tt a chapel on the Masom.c Home
grounds and have th-ree members to confer with the Masomc Home
Board.
During my administration the Order of the Eastern Star has
extended me many courtesies, and s~veral Chapters havt>;. e~tended
me invitations to visit them. Their Grand Chapter, at its last
annual meeting, did me the honor to <;le~t me an honora~y member, and Brilliant Star Chapter, of Lomsv1lle, conferred this honor ·
upon both Mrs. McElroy and myself.
.
I have however, construed these courtesies upon their part
not so muc'h a compliment to me individually as it was ~o mapifest
their kindly feeling for the Masons of Kentucky and their desire to
co-operate with th_em.
·

35

New Jersey:
He had been asked to rule that the Eastern Star is "clandestine." He declined to rule, as he knew nothing about the Order.
He admitted uneasiness about it, because the G. L. of England had
ambiguously decided· against membership in bodies unrecognized
as Masonic. Well, the 0. E. S. is not Masonic in the U. S. A., but
a number of Masonic bodies could easily improv e their reputation
by investing themselves with as essentially Masonic a character as
has the 0 . E. S.
South Carolina:
We were sorry to see that Grand Lodge, on the recommendation of the Jurisprudence Committee... seemed to prefer that its
members should take the antiquated side degree known as "The
Wife 11nd Daughters' Degree" in preference to joining the Order
of The Eastern Star, the latter being an organized Body in almost
every State of t he Union, and for emost, ay, foremost, in every
good . work. When a young man, more than thirty years ago, this

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Scribe was induced by his Brethren to take "The Wife and J?aughters' Degree," and to mention it in the same paragraph with the
Order of the Eastern Star demands an apology to the latter Body,
which he hereby tenders.
Texas:
In one of his decisions Grand Master Crause (Pennsylvania)
held that Lodge rooms cannot be used for !11eetings of the. Order
of the Eastern Star Chapters. . Commentmg on the action of
Lodges which encourage or permit Lodge room~ to be used for
meeting places for the Easte.rn St!lr, he say.s: . 'Those Brethren
who encourage this organizaho1!-, d1rect!Y. or tnd1rectl;y:, to en_graft
itself upon Freemasonry are guilty of a1dtng and abettmg an mnovation upon the body of' Freemas©nry."
We cannot quite agree with Brother Crause in his conclusi~n.
While the Order of the Eastern Star is not, and does not, claim
to be a Masonic institution or organization, it is in the attitude ot a
foster-sister to Masonry, composed of the fc;male r~lati_ves of Masons, and we can see no harm, much less an mnovat10n tn the body
of Freemasonry, for these wives and daughters of Masons to hold
their meetings in a Masonic Lodge room.
West Australia:
The Order of the Eastern Star, composed of lady relatives and
friends of Freemasons seems to be held in high esteem in South
Dakota, and Brother Pettigrew expressed the opinion t.hat it was
the best thing that had ever come to Masonry. He considered that
Masonic Brethren needed some influence other than the symbolic
teachings told in Lodge rooms; that ~he orga_nizatjo,n was a financial benefit to the Lodges, and an assistance i~ uniting ho.useholds
in a bond of sympathy and love for fellow bemgs. Quotmg from
so me other sources, the Grand Master pointed out that the prohibition of the admission of women into Masonry was due to tne inferior position that they held in earlier times; that the appreciation
of woman's position has so changed that she was now able to
exercise great helpfulness in Masonic circles. We commend t~e
Grand Master's chivalrous attitude, and agree with all that he said
concerning the ability and helpfulness of wo!11en; but at the same
tirlle we cling to . the opinion we have previou~ly .expressed that
Masonry should stand alone, and that all the social mtercourse an<l
mutual help which make life's pathway pleasant can be secured
without what appears to be the introduction of women into ;Ma- ·
sonry by a side path.
EDUCATION-MASONIC
From the replies to the Questionnaires sent the various Grand
Secretaries, as well as from the proceedings themselves, it appears
that there is a demand for "more light." We do not think that the
Masonic Lodge is perfonnlng all of its functions unless it includes
in its work enlightenment on our origin, history and traditions.
Under this head we would also include education on the great
questions of the day which are vital to our Country. This does not
mean that a Lodge should assume a definite position or resolve for

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

37

or against any course of action as regards particular questions. If
in our daily life, in our ante-rooms and at our Clubs we can discuss
these matters without strife, it certainly seems that we should be
able to do so when within a tiled Lodge.
Alberta:
When a Brother becomes a Master Mason our duty towards
him has just begun. He should be taught what Freemasonry really
is and what are its qims. Most Initiates are hungry for such teaching. Our Lodge officers, chosen from all walks of life, have seldom
the time to study ways and means other than by "Work" to teach
the fundamental principles of the Craft and supplement the ritual.
One of the functions of our Lodges of instruction should be to
provide the necessary information a·nd suggest methods. We must
apply methods which will be interpretative to the "Work" and
of our history, our organization and form of government. We
must translate in mo'tlern terms that work brought down to us
through the centuries so that its usefulness may be the better revealed. To accomplish this requires that men charged with this
promulgation should be trained and educated Masons, schooled
in the lore and customs of the Craft and possessing a vision of the
world's problems. They must be able to so visualize Masonic
principles that the Brethren may learn Freemasonry's solutions of
these problems.
District of Columbia:
The Grand Lodge of Washington has a committee on Masonic
research and education, which recommended a standing committee
whose duties shall be as follows:
1. The committee shall, on request, furnish speakers on Masonic and kindred subjects of Lodges, and for community meetings
held under the auspices of Logges.
2. The committee shall cause to be published, or printed, and
circulated such addresses as are delivered under the direction of
said committee as may be determined upon.
3. The committee shall provide for a circulating 1ibrary of Masonic literature, and shall specify rules governing the same.
4. The committee shall invite and conduct correspondence with
Lodges, or members thereof, . concerning Masonic subjects.
In other words, it is an effort to make the Lodges attractive,
and if it succeeds there will be a diminution of members in the
Grotto, the Clubs, the Shrine, and maybe the Chapters.
Georgia:
With the possibilities afforded by the theme of the new education there is no reason for the overshadowing of the study side
of Mas01.1ry within the Lodge. This feature is in£,reasing in popularity and demonstrating its benefits.
Grand Jurisdictions are slowly cori-iing to recognize the worth
of such study, and that Freemasonry is more than conferring degrees. We have always believed that a candidate shonld be proficient in the ritual, but there are other things that he can and must
learn before he can be an asset to the Fraternity. If Freemasonry
be only perfection in a chanted ritual, then, at least, let us spare

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Freemasonry by giving the Thespian order another name; let us
take down the altar and set up a theatrical stage, and where words
of brotherly love, morality and benevolence were to have been said,
let dramatists and tragedians pronounce their emotional intonations.
Outside of some charity, most subordinate Lodges have been
merely conferring degrees. The better ritualistic graphaphone a
man is, the more learned he appears to the Craft and undoubtedly
to himself. But the pendulum of thought, which saves all things,
is swaying away from the disgusting, obnoxious degree-conferring
-machine that some have endeavored to make of the Fraternity,
to the real sublimity of the duties of Freemasonry.

way, b~t. is a Fr:1:ternity .that helps to make men better by reason
of receiving the instructions which come to them from the three
?egrees of symbolic M!'lsonry. Nor must we lose sight of the
important fact that candidates must be disabused of any impression
they may have that the Blue Lodge is simply a stepping stone to
the so-c:1:lled higJler degrees. I am in thorough sympathy and
ac;cord with both ,York Rite and Scottish Rite Masonry, for each
Rite teac.hes beautiful and sublime lessons, but fundamentally there
are no higher degrees than the three degrees of Ancient Craft Masonry, and we ~eed to impress qpon the Brethren the necessity of
not only ma.stenng these degrees, but also having them realize their
~e~uty an4 1mp?r.tar,ice. A B.rother's obligation to his Blue Lodge
ts in ?O w1.se min1m1zed .by v1rt~e of h!s membership in any of the
Scottish Rite or York Rite Bod1e.s or in the Mystic Shrine.

38

*

*

*

*

*

*

The study side of Freemasonry, put into effect in Iowa seven
or eight years ago, has spread to California, Indiana, Maryland,
New Jersey, North Dakota, Texas and Utah.
The Iowa plan embraces a standing Committee on Masonic
Research, the special function of which is to promote the study
side of Masonry. At the last communication of the Grand Lodge,
Iowa provided for a bureau of Masonic speakers and lecturers as
a part of the plan. By means of the large library of the Grand
Lodge at Cedar Rapids and the twenty circulating libraries, Iowa
has begun a remarkable work, and in their views of physical qualifications and intellectual Masonry. Iowa Masons have taken a
great step forward toward a great future for Masonry;
California has a Committee on Masonic Education which provides speakers for such Lodges as desire to hear-and the demand
is greater than can be filled-with the result that the attendance
is increased materially and a better interest manifested throughout
the Jurisdiction. "We find," says Grand Secretary John Whicher,
" that our Brethren are fed up on the ritual and that they want to
know something, not only of Masonry, but want information on
all current topics of the day."
Indiana Masons have a standin,g Committee on the Study Side
of Masonry, which, from time to time, sends out to the subordinate
Lodges selected printed matter, which, in the judgment of the
committee, will be of interest to the Craft. These a.r ticles are read
at special meetings of the Lodges, and after the reading an informal
discussion held, which usually results in two or three subjects being
assigned to certain members of the Lodge to be reported upon at
a future meeting. The results of the meeting are reported back to
the general committee and filed for future guidance. The plan, on
the whole, Is reported t o have been very satisfactory.
New Jersey, while holding in abeyance the plan of a Grand
L odge library, has devised methods for having published, in leaflet
form, from time to time, Masonic history of special interest, literature explaining the symbolic meaning of the degrees, and extracts
from lectures on Masonic subjects. These are to be forwarded to
the Worshipful Masters of th e Lodges with th e request that they
have copies printed and sent out with their regular no.t ices to
members.
Indiana:
In this connection also I can not too strongly urge the necessity of Lodges taking the time to study the fundamentals of Masonry to the end that the membership may realize that the Insti•.ution is not a mere machine for the making of Masons in a formal

39

Louisiana:
. The nee? of the hour is education-American education Masonic education, synonymous and interchangeable terms. We as
Masons, must bend our energies to influence public opinion 'not
only by precept but by example. Public opiinion is the force' that
rules the. cou?try. With a. warped and jaundiced public opinion the
coun.try 1~ .diseased and in . danger; with a correct and righteous
public opinion the country 1s healthy and safe. Public opinion is
but the crystali:i:ati?~ of individ_ual .opinion. We must, therefore,
work upon the ind1v1dual, and in aid of that work the individual
Ma.son must thorou!fhly. learn the principles, the tenets and lessons
wh1c.h are tau~ht him in the Lodge room, and then he must go
o~t into the h1.ghways and by-ways of the community and exempl!fy t~e practice of these principles in his dealings and actions
with his fell.ow-men. Every. Masonic Lodge must become the cen~er ,of good !nfluences an~ wise coui;isels in the community in which
1t .1s established. In this way will our noble Order justify its
~x1st~nc~ an.cl secure and safeguard American principles and American institutions to .t he end o~ time and to the uttermost generation.
Maine:
Among oth~r ii;ifluences may properly be classed the conviction
tha~ membersh!J? . in our. <;:>;der constitutes a perpetual protest
against ~h.e pern!c?ous activities of other institutions in relation to
our poltttc~I, c1v1c, '.lnd. educati?nal affairs. Many thoughtful
B_rethre,n with a genuine interest m the welfare of our Fraternity
view with .much concern t.he rapid increase in our numbers, lest
the subord1.nate Lodges fail to take adequate steps to enable the
Lodge to ~1schar~e the obligatior,is which it always assumes to the
newly-admitted Brother. ~nd his dependents. No subordinate
Lodge sh?uld ev.er per1?1t itself to turn Masons out into the world
who are insufficiently informed concerning the Landmarks of our
Order, nor should any ~odge ever allow its financial condition to
reach .sue~ a st~te that 1t must confess its inability to render such
financial aid as 1s due a Jilrother in distress.
Massachusetts:
.B~t we must consider our responsibility for the men we are
receiving. We cannot stamp thellJ with the Masonic emblem and
let them go their way either in justiee to them or to ourselves.

40

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

We must supply the demand for more light. We must answer the
question the candidates ask for us, "What am I to do, now t hat
I am a Mason?"
Unless we do something along these lines, we are false to our
principles, our Institution will gradually sink to the lev.el of a mere
social organization, a nd our influence on the wo11ld will be lost.

Under the present system he practically steps d own and out just
at the time he has become of value.

South Dakota:
To the writer it appears that in the present juncture of world
affairs it is important that we take knowledge of the facts of human
nature, and without sacrificing anything of the high purposes and
aspirations of Masonry, seek for ways and means of accommodating tbe Masonic institution to the life and experience of the average man. We will fin d him interested, and perforce, deeply so, in
his present day problem. He is surrounded on every hand by glaring evidence that men get on in the world paying no heed to the
square, the level o r the plumb. The appeal of Masonry that will
offset the Impressions upon the mind of the young man observing
th ese things, lies not in the facts of its history, or in its symbolism,
alone, but in the human touch of heart to heart brotherhood. After
all said and done it is important first to "know th yself," and
next that the "proper study of mankind is man."
Virginia:
He, t oo, seemed uneasy because of the wonderful influx of so
many new Masons. T here are two dangers. One is the fear he
expressed of the admission of the unworthy among so many, but
the other is still more serious. We are neglecting Masonry in the
rush of work for lack of time to pay proper attention to the Masonic education of our new Brethren, and we can but wonder what
will be the result. As we are going we will soon have a majority
of new undigested members, and their power of numbers and ignorance of Masonry will be a menace. Let us all think about this.
Each Master struggles for a record along the childish line of ambition to have raised more Masons than others. It is a serious matter.
GRAND OFFICERS
Our Grand Master stated, after traveling through his Jurisdiction, that he found fifty percent of the Fraternity did not know
who the Grand Master was, and the other fifty percent didn' seem
to care very much. Custom has limited, except in certain States, the
term of office of the Grand Master to one year, but there is no
gainsaying the fact that the Jurisdictions which continue the Grand
Master in office for at least two years have produced men who have
made their mark in the Masonic world. It may be revolutionary, •
but we think it would w ork to the good• of the Fraternity if the
Grand Lodge met bi-annually in place of annually, and the Grand
Master continued in office foe the same length of time. It -would
certainly lead to less legislation, and afford more opportunity for a
Grand Master to accomplish something along constructive lines.

41

Alabama:
We maintained in ou r 1918 report that the Grand Master of Florida
had no power to ~orbid the Lo~ges of F lorida r eceiving as a visitor a
brother who was in good standing. Brother Wright takes issue with
us. His argument is that the Grand Master must possess this power for
the reason that any member of a Lodge present at its meeting may
object to any visitor being admitted for no other reason than that he
i~ person.a .no~ gr.a ta. That the right of visitation is subject to this
nght of obJect1on 1s undoubted, but a member not present at a meeting
can not interpose this objection, and much less. can the Grand Master
by a general. uk':lse and without trial exclude a Brother from all Lodges.
We maintain that Masons have rights that even Grand Masters
are required to respect.
Georgia:
The Grand !"laster visited. every chartered Lodge during the year.
We commend him most heartily and also congratulate him upon the
happy plan of having an address by some Past Grand Master. We
hav~ always wondered why some Grand Masters humor Lodges in
having.the Grand Master make his visit a feature by conferring degrees.
There is a far greater duty upon a Grand Master in visiting Lodges than
to confer deg~ees. He is about the best Craftsman to set ·the Lodges at
Labor under good and wholesome instruction.
Idaho:
The Grand Master (Georgia) was in the army. W hen he returned
the burden of Masonic war relief work seemed to rest heavily on his
shoulders. He wrote to General Pershing asking for an explanation
of th~ government's refusal to grant certain passports. Of course
Pershing turned him down. ~e seem~d to have. forgotten that Judge
Scudder ~f New York m~de himself, .if not famous, at least notorious
through h1.s controve~sy ;y1th the War Department which justly refused
to deal wuh forty-nine independent organizations for overseas relief
~ork. , The "sinister influences" that prevented the Masons from doing
independent war work has been overworked with no great credit to
the men engaged therein.
We quote the Grand Master :
. "Early in. the spring I received by cable an urgent invitation from
His R~yal Highness, The Duke of Connaught, the Grand Master of
the United Grand Lodge of England, to attend a special Communication
of that body to be held in connection with the celebration of the
supposed advent of peace. The invitation included also the Grand Secretary."
This "urgent invitation" by cable was sent to every Grand Master
in the United States.
Again the Gr.and Master seems to have been troubled over passports
for those attending the London Peace Jubilee. This time he wrote
to President Wilson, then . in Paris. His letter was made a part of his
address as qrand Master and was n_ot creditable to the Fraternity.
Fortunately, 1t never reac~ed the pr~s1dent, but its receipt was simply
acknowledged by that omnipresent private secretary, ]. P . Tumulty.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Kansas:
Like many other Grand Masters, he includes with his address
copies of correspondence in regard to trivial matters which came under
his observation, such as complaints of little irregularities in the Lodges.
We believe matters of this kind are semi-personal and in making them
a part of the report, we doubt whether it is in keeping with the dignity
of a Grand Master's address.

now exercises of making his choice felt in the selection of the future
line of officers. It is true that he may make further ele~tions but
custom prevents hi;; doing so unless most unusual circumstance~ demand its exercise. This power is rarely exercised by a Grand Master.
But worse than all this1 the Grand Master, acting in accordance with
custom, gener~lly appomts as the Fifth District Deputy the brother
whom he· appomted as his Master of Ceremonies when he in turn was
appointed Fifth District Deputy, eight years before he was elected
.9 rand !-faster. The actual result is that the Fifth District Deputy,
mexpenenced as he then is as to the desirable qualifications of a Grand
Master, ~elects the one who is to, become Grand Master of this Grand
Lodge, sixteen yea.rs f~om that time. If it is illogical to have the
~ran~ Mast~r 3;PPOmt his eventual successor in office when he a~points
his Fifth J?1stnc~ ~eputy Grand Master, it is wholly indefensible to
have the F1f.th District Deputy, who is unacquainted with the needs of
the Gr3:nd Lodge, select the future Grand Master, who will assume this
offic.e sixteen years hence when he appoints his Master of Ceremonies.
While the Grand M_aster may exercise his prerogative of appointment
and depart from this custom to make appointments in the appointive
offices, so fixe? has become the custom of casting the ballot in the
G~and L~dge m a perfunctory manner that it has not departed from
this ~ractice for very many years past. The exercise by the members
of this Grand Lodge of the power of choice has .for all intents and
purposes ceased to exist.

42

Louisiana:
We note the complaint that scant space was allowed Western Australia in our Foreign Correspondence and the suggestion that perhaps
the uninteresting nature of their reports do not give material for more
than passing reference. We regret sincerely that our Australian Brethren in whom there is so much to admire and love should feel the
necessity of taking exception to our mention, but it is a fact that our
American Grand Masters record in their addresses so many matters
of detail and are so much more prolific in language than their English and
Australian cousins, that the reviewer has more than ample material to
scan and criticize. No, it is not because you are too prosaic, but because
yott reach the same end by a shorter route. Your system is to be
commended.
Maryland: ·
"I want to state now, at the very beginning of my term, that I feel
it would be wise for the Grand Lodge to have its Grand Masters serve
two consecutive years. I wish to state that I shall not be a candidate
under any circumstances next year, and my decision in this matter is
due, not to any want or lack of appreciation Gf the orivilege of presiding in the East over a body of such magnificer!t men as we have here
today, but due primarily to a realization of the fact that the continuation of one man in the East indefinitely is bound to choke off ambition
among the membership. I find that some of the strongest Grand
Lodges-Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and several otherscontinue their Grand Masters in office more than one term, and I may
as well state frankly that, even though I were ambitious enough to
continue in the East, I am satisfied that you would soon tire of me, and
I feel that I am setting a precedent now by stating definitely at the
beginning of this term that I shall not be a candidate next year."
Nebraska:
I wouid not dissipate our funds, nor have the Grand Lodge become
a spendthrift, yet I would give to each future Grand Master an appropriation large enough to permit him or his proxy to travel to distant
places wherever an important undertaking is being considered or
accomplished by Masons, and give him to understand that it is expected
of him. to see that Nebraska Masons are there represented by someone
who can bring home to us a report of what was done, and moreover to
bring to us a eonsciousness that we have become a part of every and
a'.I laudable Masonic undertakings.
Rhode Island:
The incoming Grand Master in practice appoints all the old line
officers who are not elective, advancing them up to the next higher
office, and appoints a new Fifth District Deputy. This officer is his
'o nly new appointee in the line. This is the only opportunity which he

*

*

*

*

*

43

*

There is need at all times of closer relations between the Grand
These relations cannot be too
mt1mate. I ther~for~ took occasion shortly after my appointment to
follow a custom mstituted by my p;edecessor in office, and to request
the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden and the Junior
Grand W ar<len to 3:rrange to visit. a? .many of the several Lodges as
they were able durmg the ye.a:, d1v;1dmg them into three groups. I
further requested tha.t these v1s1ts m1g~t. be made upon evenings other
than those .upon which I made my v1s1t or upon which the District
Depu~y assigned to that Lodge made his visits. I believe that the
pra.ctic~ has been productive of benefit and recommend that it be
man?-tamed or enlari?;ed and .more fully carried into execution during the
commg year, especially with regard to the Lodges located in the
country.
~o~ge and the subordinate Lodges.

Texas:
My ;Bret~ren, there has grown up in this Grand Lodge a custom

?f .speaking lightly of the "Grand East." It may be good politics, but
it is n_ot good Masonr)'.. Twenty or thirty years ago, many of these
splen.d~d men ha~ attamed to the highest honors within your gift.
A~b1t10n was. satisfied, youth had fled, their brows were frosted with
wmter's snows, and · marked with time's foot prints and their faces
were turned down the ~estern slope, yet year after year they have
bra_ved .th~ dangers ?f w1~try weather and of epidemic disease to lend
their aid m our deliberat10ns at the Annual Communications of this
Grand todge. The wise counsel of more than one of these gray haired
. men has been like "the shadow of a great rock in a weary land" to
the present Grand Master of Masons in Texas and he craves no greater
priyilege th~n to join their ranks, become dne of them and take an
active part m the splendid service they are rendering to the Craft.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

West Virginia:
A Grand Master does not fully realize the importance of his
exa'.ted position until he visits among his Brethren in their Lodges.
Unless one is careful his head, on such occasions, will swell on him.
When I was a Grand Master, over forty-five years ago, I couldn't help
but feel so puffed up that Woodrow Wilson's overcoat would not have
contained material enough to make me a vest pattern. The truth is I
regard an election to King Solomon's vacant Chair, which in. my candid
judgment, is the most exalted official position I ever held, or that any
one can ho'.d in this, or any other country on the globe.

membership to Masons. Without going very deeply into the merits of
the organization, the Grand Master was convinced that "there is already
enough distraction in Masonry," and that the introduction of the
Order into North Dakota should not be encouraged. As the concern
does not pretend to be Masonic, the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge
over it is not apparent.

44

*

*

*

*

*

*

He further states that it was his duty, as well as great pleasure, to
visit nearly all the lodges of this jurisdiction. This is one of the
pleasures looked forward to by every Grand Master ,and whilst in that
state the trip is one of hardships in many respects, still it should never
be slighted or omitted for it adds zest and encouragement to the constituent Lodges, especially the small ones. No duty of a Grand Master
is more helpful to Masonic Lodges than visitations and instructions
de'.ivered by him to the Brethren in constituent Lodges. Masons
generally ought to see their "Big Chief" in their own "Wigwams" at
least once a year, if it is at all possible, and in most cases, it can be
made so, by making sacrifices. In most of my Reports I have urged
the importance of frequent official visitations of Grand Masters to the
Subordinate Lodges of their respective Jurisdictions.
Wisconsin:
One of the first things a Grand Master, on being elected to. office
thinks he must do, is to revolutionize the aims, and ourposes of the
Craft in order that Masonry may be "doing something." No one would
contend that the church does not do anything. It is not building navies,
equipping armies, manning ships, boring tunnels or conducting vast
enterprises, but its teachings reach every city, every hamlet, every
home, and nearly every human being in civilization, and have transformed mankind from savages to civilized human beings, practicing
charity and revering God. The work of Masonry is of the same general
nature. It does not undertake to perform every good work · that any
enthusiast may suggest in order that something may be done. Its aim
is to hold · before humanity high ideals and by constant teaching of
them to make mankind better, wiser and consequently happier. These
are the things that are rea!ly worth while.
"THE GROTTO"
"The Grotto" still seems to be in disfavor in certain States.
There is a growing tendency to legislate against organizations
having membership in the Masonic Fraternity as a basis for eligibility to join. "The Grotto," being one of the newest arrivals in
the fraternal world, is naturally the first to come under the ban.
British Columbia:
During the year the Grand Master had some correspondence relative·
to the Mystic Order of Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm-an
institution which does not claim to be Masonic, but which restricts its

45

Connecticut:
While not censuring the "Order of Veiled Prophets," the G. M.
recommend investigation and "some restrictions on its operation." We
find no further record. Though not a member of this "Order" we see
(unless it claims to be Masonic) no more reason for interference by
Grand Lodges than in the case of Odd Fellows or other outside organizations.
Idaho:
We remember that the Shrine in Colorado was very, very naughty
some years ago and became subject to Grand Lodge discipline, but
that was different. The Shrine does not select its material from the
innocent Master Masons, but from the hardened old sinners who have
gone through the so-called higher degrees. To the on-looker the
Grotto presents a beautiful ceremony, but the Shrine may be more
impressive to the candidate.
The above matter was referred to a special committee· "to report
at this Communciation," but we have looked in vain for this report.
Evide,ntly the Jowly Grotto has a few friends eveti in the Grand Lodge
of Colorado.
Illinois:
From different points in the state complaints have come to me
regarding outside organizations drawing their members exclusively from
the Masonic Fraternity. By connecting the word "Mason" or "Masonic"
with their activities impression was left upon the public that these
organizations were part' of the Masonic institution. In advertising
public demonstrations so much of the circus and cheap show variety was
given as to bring ridicule and reproach upon Masonry. Having their
stunts and shows in Masonic temples cast odium upon the Craft. It
became necessary to call attention to Masons to this condition. Consequently under date of November 8, 1919, I sent a letter to each Lodge
and ordered it to be read at three separate stated meetings. At the same
time I took this up with Jesse K. Seeright at Pittsburgh, Pa., Grand
Monarch of the Grotto of the United States. Very promptly he replied .
deploring the cause of complaint. He says ''I know from the tone of
your letter that you had ample cause to send out the letter." Following
this on December 30, Grand Monarch Seeright issueq an edict to all
Grottoes forbidding the actions a.pout which complaint was m<;1de. I
especially appreciate the prompt action and proper spirit shown by the
Grand Monarch and am convinced that local organizations were ignorant of what they did.
Kansas:
He (G. M. of Illinois) directs attention, under the heading of
"Reflecting on Masonry" to the free street shows and concluding
entertainments in Masonic Halls under the name of "Masonry," which
brings "ridicule and reproach" on our time honored Fraternity. He
even went to the extent of issuing a letter to each Lodge, ordering that

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

it be read at three separate Stated Communications. He likewise took
the matter up with the "head mogul" of one Gf these organizations,
who seemed to awaken to the fact that the Grand Master had just cause
for complaint and subsequently issued some sort of an order to his
association forbidding any further action such as that to which the
Grand Master of Illinois took exception. The action of the Grand
Master was approved by the Grand Lodge and we feel justified in
adding just one more stamp of approval from the Sunflower State.

We have often speculated what would be the effect of another
persecution along the lines of the "Morgan excitement." How
many would discard their emblems and "take to the tall timbers"
as did our Brethren of 1826.

46

Nebraska:
A standing resolution was adopted as follows: That no Master
Mason, a member of any Lodge under the Jurisdiction of Colorado,
shall become a member by petition or otherwise, of the so-called Mystic
Order of the Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm (or Grotto),
and any Master Mason who shall become a member of the so-called
Mystic Order of the Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm (or
Grotto), shall be subject to Masonic discipline.
North Carolina:
Under North Dakota he approves their "taboo" of "The Grotto,"
with an inference that they might well go further. He says:
"When the beautiful system of Freemasonry, with its impressive
ceremonies and-seriously wholesome teachings, is made the ground-work
of any kind of grotesque buffoonery, it is certain that no good can
accrue to the Order'; and -it is little to be wondered at that the general
public regard our ceremonies as made up of greased poles lor the
candidate to climb, billy-goats, and every other species of tomfoolery
that was ever conceived in the vacant mind of a buffoon."
Mexico:
Report is made of the nquest issued admonishing all Master Masons
not to support or become a member of an organization havirig the high
sounding name "The Mystic Order of Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted
Realm." It sounds like a tale of the Arabian nights and the Grand
Master does well, and is well within his rights to prohibit any Mason,
supporting such an absurdity. Masonry is nothing if not dignified, and
it would surely impair its usefulness if such a "barnacle" were to
become attached to it.
GROWTH
There. is no doubt but what the growth of Masonry during
the past two years has been phenomenal. Various reasons are
given for this, but we believe the rapid increase is having a ·bad
result. While all of the Gran.d Lodges "view _with alarm" this
growth, still they continue to "point with pride" to the increase in
membership. No Jurisdiction yet seems to have taken any positive ·
action or steps to remedy the existing condition of affairs. They
are long on ideas but short on action. The germ of decay in any
organization bas and will always be popularity. How many members prize Masonry only for the privilege it gives them of wearing
an emblem, be it the Square and Compass, the Maltese Cross, the
Double Eagle, or the Scimitar and Crescent.

47

Alabama:
If Lodges were restricted to reasonable size, it would not be
necessary to initiate by the wholesale. Innovations of this kind should
be carefully restricted. If not we shall soon see classes that rival those
of the Scottish Rite Reunions being put through the Blue Lodges.
M~:

I~

I believe this great numerical increase in our Fraternity comes at
a most opportune time, because now, during these strenous days of
unrest, disquietude and dangerous agitation, more than ever before,
is the world in need of every moral and intell~ctual force that tends
to enlighten and pacify the dissatisfied, disturbing and rebellious elements that are today keeping the universe ablaze with strife, dissension and anarchy, and Masonry, with its more than two million
devotees in this country alone, constitutes one of the gravest of the
moral and intellectual forces in the United States, and by persistent
and united effort can wield a mighty influence in the interests of good
citizenship and of good government.
It has within itself an unlimited power for the betterment of many
existing conditions and the key to its possibilities is education and
enlightenment. Let us teach and spread broadcast the great moral
precepts of our institution; let us stand as a unit for our free public
school system and guard and p.rotect it against every assailant; let
us teach that service and sacrifice are two of the most commendable
characteristics in the universe; let us practice and teach loyalty,
devotion and patriotism to our flag and our country; and above all let
us emphasize our faith and belief in the Fatherhood of God and the
Brotherhood of Man.
Illinois:
One of the principle subjects which has engaged the attention of
nearly every Grand Master as judged from the Proceedings reviewed
relates to the tremendous increase in membership which the Craft has
enjoyed during the past two or three years. Many Grand Masters
have speculated upon this wonderful addition to the membership of our
Lodges but no ove seems to have been able to ascertain the direct
cause as to why so many men, both young and old, have sought the
privileges of the Fraternity. Among the reasons assigned are the
influence of the war, the fact that a large number of men are beginning
to realize that Freemasonry is really worth while and the general law of
the survival of the fittest. As to whether or not this increase is to be
permanent no one seems to be able to arrive at a definite opinion. It
is believed, however, that while the crest of the great wave has been
reached, yet it wi11 be several years before Freemasonry will drop back
to the ordinary methods of pro'cedure, particularly in this respect.
Iowa:
To bring together the principal objections to the large Lodge that
form the real indictment, let us mention (a) the tendency to lay stress
upon the business activities and the ritualistic wqrk to the exclusion of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

all others; (b) the absence of real so9ability and acquaintance among
the members-the extent of this lack exhibiting itself in tlie indifference
to a l>rother's welfare and a failure to love him enough to wish to follow
him to his last resting place; ( c) the wastage of all the energies of the
officers in the degree mill, so that they have no opportunity or vim to
perform other functions equally or even more important for the advancement of the causes for which our fraternity should stand; ( d) the large
Lodge gives• thi;: average member no opportunity to participate in its
activities, all the time being taken up by routine work to the exclusion
of addresses or lectures even if talent is available for this source of
inspiration; (e) the Masonic development of each member is necessarily
restricted; ( f) even the opportunity to participate in the ritualistic work
of the Lodge is confined to a very small proportion of the total member. ship, and the pathway to the stations is too narrow for the ' progress of
more than a few; (g) the individual member, therefore, feels a very
small sense of responsibility for either the Lodge or Masonry in general.

declare that its success depends upon the quality of its Masonic activity.
Orgallization is invoked. The Brethren are formed into Study Clubs,
Social Clubs and Committees for visiting hospitals and other public
institutions devoted to charitable and relief work. Means are found to
stimulate interest in community activities. The successful conduct of
these activities imp'.ies rare qualities of leadership such as many of
everi the largest Lodges do not possess, and enthusiastic Brethren are
apt to undertake enterprises which are not the proper function of a
Masonic Lodge and which lead to dissatisfaction and reaction.

48

Georgia:
The great increase has swept through Lodge room doors without
any apparent reason. The overflow in 1918 and 1919 was believed to
be due to the war, but there was no expectancy that the stupendous gain
would continue.
·
With the exception of several optimistic Grand Masters, the flood
of applications is viewed with much alarm. The comparative value of
t}uantity and quality is being weighed in the balance and for the greater
part it is being discovered that Masons are b!!tter than members; that
men need Masonry more than Masonry needs men. The Fraternity is
struggling to forget the disregard of principles during the war and settle
again upon the foundation of our fathers. We raised no protest when
applicants, called to arms, suddenly found a desire to become Masons
and were railroaded through, but even though· we may be branded as
guilty of treason by our own Brethren, we are of the emphatic opinion
that it is better to put a little sand on the rapid-transit tracks and slow
up a bit.
Students and leaders of Masonic thought are considering as never
before that Masonry is more than a phonographic recital of ritualismthat the Blue Lodge is not just a stepping stone for the so-called higher
bodies and the Shrine.
Manitoba:
An eminent English statesman once declared that when he reflected
on the size of the British Empire, he had no desire to l>oast but rather
to go behind the door and pray. That the successful management ·of
large aggregations of men requires statesmanship of a high order is
being brought home to those Masons who are members of Lodges
claiming enrollment of say 400 or more. Many such Lodges are declared
to be failures. Those sympathetic friendships which endears his Lodge
to the Mason, those associations which unite himlielf and his fellows
into one great family, can only partially exist in such a body. Spontaneous action is unusual ; advancement in office is beyond the reach of
all but an exceedingly small percentage of its meml>ers. The Lodge
grows unwieldly; its members indifferent. Hence proposals that such
Lodges should be broken up, and that a limit of membership should
be imposed by Grand Lodge.
·
The large Lodge is defended by its advocates who point to the
possibilities of usefulness of such a group of right-spirited men and

49

Nebraska:
We have had a wonderful growth during the past Masonic year.
Four thousand three hundred candidates were raised to the sublime
degree of a Master Mason. How many Master Masons have been made,
no one knows. The amount of work which has been done by some
Lodges has been really appalling, and has left little time for the social
and deductional side of Masonry. The ritualistic side has predominated
and much remains to be done in our Lodges, not merely repeating to
our candidates our beautiful lessons, but to impress our members, new
and old, that Masonry is an actual living vital force which if properly
applied will do much toward solving many of the trying problems of
the day. In that way its real aims and purposes can be accomplished
and Masonry maintain the exalted position it has ever held and will
·always hold.
I am not pessimistic over the outlook. The material we have
wekomed to our arms is the flower of the land, and they come to us
for light and if we but give it to them, the future of Masonry and
America is in safe ha11es. We have taken the responsibility and it rests
upon you and me to see that every candidate raised becomes a credit
to Masonry and a real brother to each of us and to humanity.
New Mexico:
Whatever the cause may be, the growth of our institution during
the past two years has been phenomenal. This apparent recognition of
the sterling worth of our institution should not cause us any alarm
unless we fail to choose our material wisely.
Numbers will not make Masonry a better institution or increase
the influence of the order unless the quality is maintained. There is no
reason to suppose, however, that simply because more apply for admission that less care will be exercised by those who are now Masons.
North Dakota:
Lodges in the larger centers are piling up members until their bulk
has become unwieldly, and in consequence, there is a growing demand
for a numerical limit to Lodge membership.
In this respect we are reminded of a statement made by Past
Grand Master Louis A. Watres, of Pennsylvania, at the Cedar Rapids
Conference last November. In the course of an address by Past Grand
Master Bell of Illinois, it was said that Illinois had made 12,000 Masons
during 191S. "This is not true," said Brother Watres.. "Illinois did
not · make 12 000 Masons any more than Pennsylvania made 8,000
Masons. Th~y conferred so many degrees, but it is impossible to make
Masons with that speed."
Oregon:
Danger lurks in this feverish activity. The ceaseless round of
degree work is leaving no time or opportunity. for the greater things

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of Masonry. Can we properly assimilate this sudden accession fo our
numbers? And how are we going to do it? May the time speedily
come when we shall settle down to a normal basis and have time to
consider the beauties of speculative Masonry.
Pennsylvania:
The. cal!ses are not difficult to find. It is an instinct of human
n~ture, m times of danger and distress, for men to seek association
with other men for mutual sympathy and support-a root of brotherh'!od. 1:he war was such an occasio_n-and as Masonry-in unprejudiced
mmds-1s known to stand pre-emment as an ultruistic institution it
wa~ .but natural that men who were eligible and free to exercise their
volitions sh?uld seek to avail themselves of the humanitarian offices of
the Fratermty.
Q uebec:
.
I am i~ accord w!th t~ose who believe that the recent great influx ·
mto ¥asomc Lodges m this country is due to the more general understandmg oi;i t)le part of the pu.blic of the principles of Freemasonry and
the appreciation by. the~ of its benefits to mankind. In my opinion
ther~ !lever ~as a time m the history of this jurisdiction when we wer~
rece1vmg a higher ~verage type of ~ember into our Order~ They appear
to be earnest and sincere men, commg forward of their own free will and
accord. I have no fears in this regard. The danger which I have seen
and which it has been my particular care to endeavor to forestall i~
that the unusual amount of work involved in the conferring of' so
~any degrees ~ay have a tendency to convert some of our Lodges
mto mere machmes for making Masons. When too much work is
~nderta~en, deg;ees cannot be impressively conferred, unfavorable
!mpress!ons are likely to. be left upon the mind of the candidates, proper
mstructton cannot .be &:ri.:·en, an~ the inte~est of candidates not being
fully aroused at this cntical period of their Masonic life, many of the
new members may soon become irregular in their attendance and
gradually drop out of our ranks. It is not in the best interests of the
Order, nor is it fair to the candidates themselves that Lodges should
undertake f!!Ore work .than they ~a_n perform thoroughly, and this without neglecting other Imes of activity equaHy important to the developmen~ among new members of the _true Masonic spirit and to maintain
the mterest and enthusiasm of the Brethren as a whole.
Texas:
The wonderful growth .of Masonry throughout ,all the Grand
Lodges of the United States is causing both satisfaction and appr.e hension.
There is a note of congratulation and of warning i~' the addresses
of Grand M~sters of many Grand Jurisdictions. Many Lodges are
pressed for time to confer the degrees upon candidates. This influx
into the fold of Masonry is attributed by some to the work and the
service of Masonry during the world war. While others see in it a
desire on the part of some initiates to improve their business or. their
political prospects. But whatever the cause, it forebodes danger. ·
Are we drifting towards the Rocks of Danger? Time only can tell.

* . *

*

*

*

*

Is this an omen of growth and prosperity, or does it indicate that a
great number of men have come to believe that it is worth something

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

51

in a business way, or politically, to wear the emblems of Masonry? As
in many other things, quality is worth more than quantity. Numbers
alone is not proof of prosperity. ·

*

*

*

*

*

*

The principal outstanding, interesting, important and significant
fact disclosed by the examination of the published Grand If>dge Pr?ceedings this year is that of the great and unpreced~nted mcrease m
membership and applications for membership in Masomc Lodges among
the English-speaking peoples in all parts of the world. In some places
· the members of the Lodges actually became physically exhausted ?n the
w·o rk of conferring degrees, which in many cases were conferred m the
same ceremony on large teams of candidates. In at least one re~orted
instance, application was made t.o the G;and Master for authonty to
divide the members of the Lodge mto sections, each section to separately
. confer degrees on different teams of candidates in differe_nt rooms at
· the same meeting. The application was not granted, but 1t shows the
. then existing pressure. The fact that such a plan was thoug)lt of may
have led some over.burdened Lodges to try it wit~out :iuthor1ty, except
the supposed fundamental right of the Lodge to direct its o~n work.
At any rate the phenomenal pressure for membership has surprised and to s~me extent alarmed, conservative Ma~ons. A num~er
of Gr~nd Masters in their addresses have alluded t? .1t, urged caution
on the Lodges, and called for, but none of them pos1t1vely suggested, a
practical remedy.
h d
· th
·1n this great rush and consequent hurry, o":e of ~ e . anger? is e
lack of time and inclination to i:nake prop.er mvestigahon as to the
character of the applicants. And if the applicants are reported wortpy,
and are elected, then comes also the rush and hurry of c'!nferrmg
degrees Many degrees are conferred on large teams of candidates at
the sa~e time. This, of necessity, must lac~ much of the. good e.ffect
and lasting influnce that go with degrees deliberately and 1mpress1ve~y
conferred on a single candidate. As on~ Grand Master expressed it,
the result is to make members of Lodges mstead of Maso11s.
Utai:ractically every Grand Jurisdic~ion re~orts a year. of unprecedented
increase in numbers_. To many, this furmshes. occas10n for congratulation. To us this fact affords reas9n for serious concern. Membership in Lodges is not synonymous with Masonry. Numbers may spell
weakness rather than strength. If a testing time should come, as a
testing time cam~ in the first third of the last century, there c~n be. no
doubt but that the humiliating experiences of the Anti-Masonic period
would be repeated, multiplied _manyfold, becaus~ of greater numbers.
Button Masons can slip off their Masonry as easily as tpey can de~ach
the emblem from the lapel. It behooves the leaders m our vanous
Grand Lodges to see to it that the conditions. necess.arr to growth, to
development, are provided, so that an experience s1m1lar to that set
forth in the sixth verse of the thirteenth of Matthew may not come to
blight and decimate the ranks of the Fraternity.
Wisconsin:
Are we prosperous? Who can tell? The fame of the institution
seems to be in the atmosphere and men are turning to us as . never
before. Our makings for the year are over te:o. per cent of our membership. Some of our Lodges are so busy that the officers tell me with
great frankness that they find it difficult to find time for instruction.
We are being pushed forward at a tremendous pace; the situation is

53

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCK

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

unique and looks like a time for great caution. We ought, as Lodges,
committeemen and members, to exercise extra care and to scrutinize
every application closely, ever bearing in mind the difference between
"Masons" and "Members," one an asset, the other a liability, and that
it is the real Masons only that build up the Fraternity and that those
who are to rank only members are after all only so much dead wood
and dead weight, that must be carried by sheer strength.

obliging
the
the time of meetmg,_ reques e aime and lace set for the meeting."
refrain frol ar~ean~gth~t d~:nd Master !as there no one else put in an
Consequent y, ad.tthoeu~riennial Conclave came off without a hitch.
appearance, an

West Virginia :
The Grand Secretary in his report says that Masonry in Indiana,
numerically and personally, has advanced more rapidly than ever before
in the history of the Grand Lodge. This condition does not alone
prevail in Indiana, but throughout the country. Ma·n y r easons have
been assigned for this influx to the Fraternity, all of which doubtless
have some merit, but . to diagnose the matter would require deep study
and thought. There is no question but that Masonry has attained the
highest standing of any fraternal organization in the world, composed
as it is of the very best men of every community. While we may make
some mistakes in admitting some that should not be admitted, but as
a who'.e the personal can not be surpassed. , The spirit that prevails
in the Lodges and among the members is wonderful. The feeling is
fraternity between Lodges is also remarkable. Probably much of this
is due to the Lodges of instruction, in which have been gathered for
three years past large numbers who became enthused in the work and
became active in all things pertaining to Masonic affairs. Promulgation of the new Monitors has also been exceedingly helpful.

being solicited m and aroun
ge
than Masonic.
d th
buse has become so flagrant that
This has go~e so f;;{ Fnll
c:afts are thus solicited to join ·soEntered Apprentice~ an
e ow ,, E n ersons who have been
called "higher bodies of ~aM°nry. an~\aJe not been initiated have
e'ected to take ~he deg.r~es m as.onry · h hese other organizations.
been urged to sign petition s to un1~e w.1~le t The impression on the canvestibule through which
Such practices are mose re_p re ensi ·
didate is that Mas~?r.Y is noMthmg ~orT~~raen : re no higher degrees in
he can become a higher
ason.
Masonry.
h
t . eigh against other organizations
It is not my pur~ose er.e o mv he Fraternity. 111 many of these
that see fit to draw their mh-ten'*~rod-~culty
is not in the organizati<ms
1
I hold agreeable. memb~rs 1P·
ed f
· d zeal displayed by some of
themselves, but m the ignorant an renz1e
their ·members.
d
M
hould see that each Master Mason
Every Lodge an every aster s .
f M
This cannot
is well g_roun~ed in the pbrinct~~dandf
~~~:e1 ~ho ::~en~~st for buttons
0
•
t Craft
be done 1£ he 1s swept on Y t e 1 e
and charms than for the fundamentals of the anc1ef
ii d "higher
Unless over-zealous and fanatical members o . so-ka discip'inary
bodies" can be curbed, it may ~ecome necessary to mvo e
•
measures to safe-guard the ancient Craft.

52

HIGHER DEGREES
At present there is a tendency to legislate against the
"Higher Degrees." There is no question but members are rushed
from the Blue Lodge into the other branches without giving them
opportunity to become acquainted with the teachings of the first
three degrees. While a time limit could be set, as has been done in
several States, still the question arises, "What, at the present time
is the Blue Lodge doing for a new member after he has b.e en
'raised' to maintain his enthusiasm and interest."
Unfortunately the witnessing of the conferring of degrees is
about all that he gets. When the Lodge ceases to be a degree mill,
and gives its members the advantages they now secure by belonging
to the "Higher Bodies," just so soon will the Blue Lodge perform its
proper function and -the existing condition of affairs be remedied.
British Columbia:
With the modesty for which the "higher bodies" are noted, the
Grand Master of Knights Templar of Wyoming requested the Grand
Master to prevent the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge from
clashing with the Triennial Conclave of Knights Templar to be held
in Philadelphia. The Grand Master realized that he had no authority
to postpone "or to attempt to change" the time of meeting of Grand
Lodge, but suggested that if no one turned up at the proper time, he
could call an "adjourned meeting" of Grand Lodge. Being of an

dispositi~n,

Gra~dd Mftili~ ~~:~:r:·a~trcfr~~~ ~o~~n~~:

Illinois:

me com iaints that Masons are

Fro~ ~ore. than one LoddgeL hdve ~eetings fo petition bodies other

°

'

Kansas:
·
M
e note that
Following the limitations' placed on a Master dsCN wth Dakota)
a resolution was immediately presented and! a~rhve M or of North
urging that the Grand Chaptet1 of Roya
r~
R ~sonsd t a rule
Dakota and the proper authorities of the Scott: iteDa op of all
requiring proof of proficiency i.n the Ma~ter
~son cre~ers and
Master Masons petitioning for the degrees m codsutuen:h. ga~ew but
Lodges of Perfection. In this we have learne sor;;e H~re is a' case
as the old sayi·ng goes, "It is never too lat~ to learM
.
mething
asomc so Entered
where a Grand Lodge of Masons recogmzes as
other than Symbolic Masonry composed of the Degrees of
Apprentice, Fellow Craft i!-nd . M~ster Masond.
t
licit members
d '
There is too much mclmat10n these ays . 0 s.o
indirectly if not directly. The solicitation authonze? m some 0. ers
which confine their membership to M.aster Maso?s is n~w carne on
with that degree of activity and insistence, that 1t does m a meas1,.1re,
reflect upon our time honored institution. Symbol!c MFstfry Ccoftn~;d
none other than the degrees of Entered Apprentice, e ofw h rA . t
Master Mason, and the practice of soliciting members. o t e. nc1e?
Craft is detrimental to the best interests of the ~ratermty andh~s no\Vn
keeping with the first requirements when seek!ng. members 1p.
e
cjo not assume to dictate to any of these organizatlo~s what. methods
they shall pursue in soliciting candid atc.:s i however, their practice at the

d

0

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

present time is to be deplored, as it does in a very great sense destroy
the favorable impression created in the minds of candidates who enter
our brotherh0od. Masonry should steer clear of commercialism. There
is or ought to be a marked distinction between members and money,
between monuments in the hearts of men and monuments of stone.
Any man who seeks the mysteries of Ancient Craft Masonry
through curiosity, for personal advantage or gain, with fun or frivolous
things of any kind the goal of his ambition, should be rejected. There
are those who sign a petition with some of these things in view, but
are rescued from this unworthy thought somewhere along the line of
travel, and they that so start and are not so rescued will never be
benefitted thereby and will be a positive injury to the Craft.
We require a man to ponder over and study each degree for at
least twenty-eight days before be can be advanced; however, it frequently happens that before he has received the first three degrees,
sometimes, before or soon after he has presented his petition, he is
solicited for what by some is termed the "higher degrees" and possibly within a few days afte he has received the degree of Master
Mason he has had -conferred upon him many additional degrees, and
then on to the feast of fun so much enjoyed while traveling over the
hot sands of the desert. Of course the~e things are not our business,
strictly speaking; however, in justice to the mother organization such
practices should not be permitted by organizations basing their membership on members of the Ancient Craft. .
·
. It is especially to be remembered, my Brethren, that there is rio
place in Masonry for anything frivolous. Beginning with the conversation between the candidate and the Brethren whom he requests to
sign his petition,-on the street, in the parlor or ante-room, anywhere
you meet him, especially in the preparation room where he first gets a
glimpse or suggestion of the future, the greeting should ever be cordial,
dignified and earnest. Nothing frivolous should be indulged. He then
approaches the threshold of Masonry in the . proper spirit and in the
right kind of environment. When he knocks on the door for admis.sion he is all expectant, he is serious as he should be. Thep when he
declares that he puts his trust in that God whom we as Masons rever- ·
ence and serve, he is prepared to travel to the East in due time, to be
raised to the sublime degree of a Master Mason, and to fully embra:e
the belief in the immortality of the soul.
Let every man, after arriving at the years of mature judgment,
without suggestion or environment directmg his mind, of his own
free will and accord, petition for the degrees. Exercise Masonic
unselfishness, care and prudence in accepting his petition, and then
confer the degrees upon him in that dignified, impressive way that
appeals to his intelligence, to his manly ideas and to his very soul.
Impress upon him in the degree of. Entered Apprentice the teachings,
the beauties and the service expected of a Mason,-in the degree of
Fellow Craft, impress upon him the lessons that open up a study of
the world and all things therein contained and make him feel at
the end of this degree that he is in a holy place. And in the Third
Degree fully impress upon him that honorable conduct, courageous
action, unwavering virtue, tried and true, are essentials to a pass-port
to the realms of eternal life. Let all the work be done with that distinct
deliberation, that the candidate of average intelligence gets every word
and every lesson intended. Thus we make better men and better
Masons.

REPORT ON C0RRESPONDENCE

55

Massachus etts:
b ship
We are ~itness to unprecedented additions to our mem er
·
'fhe year 1919 broke all previous records in the number of diplomas
issued.
.
.
d nd leased to see such an increased mterest m
. We .are. profnd:ed .:e welcome all .who are genuinely imp;essed

~~h I~h~y;:~~~~~£ ~~l~ ~~t~~j!il~~u!~~fu:rn~jlu~~i~Y:~:~~e~i~pero~:

p!~i~e is an unalloyed blessing and whether in our natural desi;e to
~ro: we ~3;Y .not ~e forgetting in our enthusiasm one of the strictest
of Masomc miuncuons.
It should be borne in upon the ~inds of ou~ members, old an:
1
young that solicitation is strictly f~rbiddhn.. 'Yhkle not the £:;i1£~;c~
the la~ against solicitation is so ancient t. at hit 3: es dnf
the East
of one Many times in the past this warnmg as issue rom
•
but it is necessary constantly to reiterate, and the Masters saou~d cond
tinually remind the Brethren that "0UF1portals are open to a t e goo
and true, but we ask no man to enter.
M issou ri :
.
d ·
t
e
I further r ecommend that the dignity, solemmty an 1mpor ai;ic
·of the three degrees of Ancient Craft Mason~Y. be protected by making
it a Masonic offense in this Jurisdictiqn t? solicit or ~o propose a ~ast~r
Mason for membership in any organ1zat1on, for which that. s~n mf. is
ualification until he has been a Master Ma~on for a per10. n?t e~s
~h~n three m~nths after he has passed a sati~factory exammation m
the Master Mason Degree.
Nebraska: (Makes a new Masonic offence.)
Amend Section 148 of the By-law~ of the Grand Lodge by adding
thereto the following paragraphs, to-wit:
To a 1 to any Scottish or York Rite body for the degrees
ther~i·n, or tips~licit sue? petit!on fr?i:n anothher,buntil a!~e: !hM~~~!~
f
ar from the time said petitioner as een m
.
f
Ma~~: ~~d shall have attended at least twelve regular l'mdet1~ts t~e
a Master Mason Lodge or Lodges, and shall have comp 1e .. w1
provisions of Section 66 of the Grand Lodge law as to proficiency.
.
p. Petitioning the Ancient Arabic Or~er of ~obles of the £:lyst~~
Shrine before two years have elapsed smce being made a
ast
Mason.
•
..
t
ge 90 of the Law of Freelnser~ in the petit1(°/~ se~fl. 9 19) Pbeing No. 231, following the
:~~~dr~a~~g~a~bha~f ~aide f~t;~n of petition, the following paragrap~ :
·h
·11
t
ply to any Scottish or
.
"He further promises that e w1 . no ap
r has
York Rite body for the degrees therem unt1Ml at leaMst one ~ed shall
. d the degree of a aster ason n
elapsed after h e has receive
·
f
Master Masons
have· attended at leastd tw~lne hegula~~lktdn~ifu Section 66 of the
ave c d · ·11
t ak application to
Lodge or Lodges, an s a
Grand ~odge lab' asot~d~:o~fciN~~l~sa~f ilile M~stk Shrine until fiv~
~~~r~~h~jf\i:V~aei1~psed since receiving the degree of a Master Mason.

56

REPORT ON CO.RRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nebraska:
So-called "high b d · " · h ·
up a feeling of an~:~o~i~: i~n ~l:~r desire for mat~r!a.1, have s~irred
before men were eligible for "hi h d Lodges,', bWy .soltc1tmg candidates
or damage will be done Ther g er egrees.
1se heads are needed
wholly outside the Ord~r to dee!rae dplenllty off antagonis~s, with forces
'
n a o our attent10n.
New Jersey
(The quoted sections are · the
·
Colorado.)
new regulations adopted by
"Such organizations within the St t
f C
enacted statutes, require that no petitio~ fo~ tho 1~rado shall£ by duly
them shall be received from one who h
eb egrees con erred by
as not een a Master Mason
for at last one year. and ro 'd d
shal~ by duly enacted stat~t~s v~r~h!bttu~~h~r,
tha\ such organiz.a~i<;>ns
1
Entered Apprentices, Fellow Crafts
M e~r m~r ers from ~o.hc1tmg
such degrees. If such organization or h Jis
asons to pet1t10_n f<;>r
such laws, the Grand Master of h" Gs a
a1 to enact or mamtam
them the recognition heretofore th~~ei;and ~odd~,e shall withdraw from
A d .
d
gran e .
0
lation nde~~e°J, ~<lJ t~e~~l~~he•;prs~mtture joiners". and compel the legisofficers this disqualifying clause: c ion enumerating the Grand Lodge
"Provided, however that no M t M
h
.
any so-called Masonic Bod from as .er ason ol~1!1g membership in
Lodge may be withdrawn Jiall be ;Jfg'fb~et~e0 recogbmt1ho!1 <?f th~s Grand
Lodge.''
.
mem ers 1p m this Grand

t·1

The reasons advanced for this
.
organizations is- quoted:
compu 1sion of equally autonomous
"The cause rom f
h
·
our Book of cinsti~t~~s t :a~resentation of the above amendment to
solicitation for 'higher degrees' a s~c\ over-ze.ald?S and indiscriminate
0
irect, a_nd often direct,
solicitation for the degrees of ~h BlcomL
organized and carried out like stock~selli~e o ge: Drives have been
~ave absented themselves from thei Lo~ campaigns. Master Masons
1.mi;>o_rtunities. Entered Apprentice~
dgeF
evage such unseemly
solicited to 'sign up.' The beauties ar 'h. h OWM rafts, have been
ig ~r
asonry have been
unfolded to men not members of h
~he first tqree degrees were essen\i:I t0raftd w.1th. the explanation that
11
mducement to them to petition our L 0 d
a .p ~s~on thereto-a patent
on the ground that but a f
ges.
etit10ns have been sought
solicitor to secure certain ali~edoMe we.re hnecessary to enable the
ferred in payment for such work C" asomc onors, presumably constories and pictures all to the s~m irculars addresses, and newspaper .
the Ancient Craft ~nd threatened theend,b hav«; brought repr<;>ach upon
<;>f one of 1ts fundamental doctrines, the first of the intern~Y verJ.'fin
made a Mason i e that he
.qua 1 cat10ns of a man to be
u~influenced b; ~e;cenary m~~h::s o~r his o'h'.n free will l_l~d ~ccord,
friends. We must protect th1"s bu!
k thbe imd pro_Per sohc1tat1on of
I
war or a an on it."
Grand L~~:ee ~i~k~r:~c~hi~ ~~~~~f ;uch conditions prev:iil in Colorado,
p~otection, but we gather from the ~t. ng toh 1forke leg1slat1~n fo~ its own
Bishop that he had been a good dea~ogfap
. c. s etc~ of M. · W .. Brother
0
crowning achievement of his a d
a Jomer him~elf, and that as a
the bodies of his membership e:e~o~s and ".ery efficient service in all
'
o organmng and leading a Shrine

'<l

fl

C·

51

band, he had determined to stop extraordinary facility of flight to
Masonic honors and fame. No one may complain that he didn't know
what he was about in procuring these new rules and regulations.
New Mexico:
When it becomes necessary for a Grand Master to say, "Unless
over•zealous and fanatical members of so-called higher bodies can be
curbed, it may become necessary to invoke disciplinarian measures to
safeguard the Ancient Craft," we must admit that we have a problem
that calls for solution. However, we are inclined to the opinion that
while the "higher bodies" may be barred from the Lodge room, the
best way to cope with the situation will be to make the first three
degrees so attractive that the higher degrees will look less alluring.
It is true, however, that many join the Blue Lodge simply because they
want to be Shriners and their first impression has been made by attending the "circus" which the Shriners put on at the time of their initiation.
Let us forbid solicitation until after we have seasoned material in the
first three degrees, but at the same time let us give more attention to
the beauties of the first three degrees and solicitation will become less
popular and effective.
North Carolina:
Coming back to our own Order, we find that Masons are not
satisfied with the divme truths inculcated in the symbolic de15rees; but
they wish to wear the purple of the so-called "higher bodies." The
Arabic Fez, coupled with the foolish stree~ parade, brings more joy to
the modern Mason than all the beauties of the third obligation; and
the resurrection of the body pales into insignificance when compared
to the alcoho!ic elevation of the soul. And although we are taught that
it is decidedly unmasonic to solicit candidates, yet we find a large
number of those "elevated" gentry going about the State with petitions
in their pockets, openly and notoriously begging men to join; and I
have no hesitancy in asserting that ninety per cent of the Knights
Templars, Shriners and 32d degree Sc.Qttish Rite Masons are unable
to repeat the obligation of the Master's Degree as it is taught by the
Grand Lecturers, I know that this statement will be challenged; but I
stand ready for the test.
I have taken all of these degrees. I have worn a Fez and witnessed
pranks that made me ashamed of the Order. I have worn the uniform
of a Knight Templar and sat in the Consistory of the Thirty-second
Degree. I am not here to condemn these orders or to claim that there
is no virtue in them. They are all good in their way; but I do claim
that Masons should learn their letters before they attempt to read, and
that nobility of character should be measured, not by the number of
degrees you have taken; but by the manner in which you e"emplify
those degrees to the world at large. No man enjoys more than I do
tne motion picture show and the stage; but for the unadulterated
principles of the Craft, give me the old fashioned Mason, who has
heard of these things, but never sought them, who believes in the
fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man as the mud sill of
Masonry; who extends the hand of true friendship, unadorned by the
gauntlet of the Templar ; who . bows his head in the presence of his
Maker, free from Fez or other ornament; and who does not believe
that a uniform will gain him a pass-port into the gates of the Great
Beyond. We are getting away from the ancient fandmarks; and it
may be well for us to remember that Masonry, after all, is now and

59

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ever shalland,
be BrotherlympL~
the exe r fi ca t'ioU of t~e principles. of Friendship,
Morality
symbolic degrees. and all thevree. st . P~,nl tthese adre bu1lded the three
is ea er an prunella."
'
wish1 ~~v!~~d~~~eM::::arks bec'.luse I felt it my d1;1ty to do so; and I
good in these "higher bodi:s ,?f th1.s State .that, while there is much
ourselves and the Order to ~idk~tj m dady .'~stances, V".e are subjecting
~dis10n; Fd, m respect to one
of them, we may be building . e an
that which we are constantly t~~gh~\om~o~~e~n. 1erarchy not ~nlike

mission of Freemasonry. Let us be vigilant; let us guard well the
outer door and see that none are admitted within our portals except
those who are duly qualified.
Let us always bear in mind that quality is worth more than
quantity.

58

North Dakota:
The Grand Lodge A F & A M f N th D k
.
record as urging the adopti~n by .the. GramrCha :ero~ ~s1Ms to go on
· · · ~f North
Dakota, and the proper authorities i N h D P
Accefptefd Scott!sh Ri!e of the South~rn J~risdi~~~~ ~~ ~e ~ncient. 3:nd
proo o proficiency m the Master M
d
ru e requmng
0,
peftiptionfing. for the degrees in constit::~; c{~f;~:r ~ aR ~ster LMadson
o
er ect10n A A s R and th t 'd 1
· · · or o ges
possible.
· · · ·
a sai ru e be adopted as speedily as

*

*

*

*

*

*

of We are con.vinced that as time goes on there will be a ti htenin
in
than
made the b tt f . k
cter, aims and asp1.rat1ons is too high to be
u o JO es or pose as a buffoon m public places.

Th:ui~~ti~~~l;~'i~ cl::~bership.

organiza~io~s ot~er

fi:asoni~

Oklahoma:
Most W orshipfut' Grand Master I . h
ff
to the Constitution which I will read r7's ·nth o er at amendment
next year. (Reads amendment).
·
WI
ave to ay over until

shall~b~v~:l~ e~~~ttedu~~t~frnizatjons within th~ .State of Oklahoma
conferred by them shall b s requud tat no pet1t10n for the degrees
Master Mason for at least eo~:ce~ve . rom one. who has not been a
organizations shall by du! ena~t:d' and, provide4 !urthe_r that such
P£oh1b1t their members
from ??liciting Entered Ap~rentices ;tj[utesC
to pet1t1on for the degrees If
h' e 0 ~ . ra ts or Master Masons
maintain such laws the G~and Muc t orgfnh?ltiGn shall fail to enact or .
draw from them th'e recognition h:r:ln ogr~n~~d. rand Lodge shall withTexas:
1
Too many candidates use the BJ
L d
the so-called "Higher Degrees,, Befuer ~h ge hn Y hs da ?tep-ladder to
and to assimilate the fundame~tal princlplese~f Fve a time to absorb
and exemplified in the three de ree
d
k reemas~nrr, as taught
of their moral fiber, they want t~ ~ '~hl hr;a,, e these prmc1ples a part
chapeau and rattle a sword. and ~ill "h~ hr, ,,so ~hat they can wear a
fez and look like a Turkish, Pasha.
ig er, w ere they can wear a
The result is too much v st

k t M

~~~tY~~ 0~a~Js~he¥ ~~~~io~c~~~i~(°r~l~k~~~nii' fh: f~r::::~l id;,~ti:

0

0

be done, except to manufacture half-bake~ M not. see any work to
are ~nly degree factories, and where there isasons, too m'.lny Lodg~s
certa.m to be a large per cent of chaff Wh S? much gr!st, there is
at this crucial time, is not more "work" ·a d "h't hs ::ededed m Masonry
"light" to see and to understand the h.ig er purposes
ig er and
egrees,
more
the but
unselfish

h

Virginia:
We have long held that Masonry would gain limitlessly if all the
bodies except Lodges and Royal Arch Chapters could be abolished. But
how? There is a harmful sore spot in the breast of many a noble
Mason because of this aristocracy in what should be a perfect Brotherhood. We see evidences oi it every day in those who cannot, in
justice to their loved ones, afford these expensive side Degrees, and
now and then in a few who could stand the expense but fear that they
would not be considered congenial.
It seems to be an evil without a remedy.
Of course that Shrine temptation is the chief cause of the trouble
alluded to, and of another more serious still. There are men who join
us simply for Shrine membership. This is a hard accusation, but
there is truth in it. Personally we wish the Shrine would throw open
its doors also to Knights of Pythias and Odd Fellows. It would work
to our advantage.

*

*

*

*

*'*

As we have often said in these reviews, let's keep our Masonry,
Masonry. Brother Street this time made a long report on A, A. S. R.
bodies recognized by the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States.
What Alabama Masonry has to do wit it is a puzzle. The Rite is a
separate and distinct organization, based on Masonry, but in no real
sense a part of it. Its degrees are side degrees, beautiful in parts and
containing much of scholarship and Eastern lore, whether all authentic
or not we do not know, nor pretend to say. In any case Grand Lodges
are composed of the representatives of thousands who know nothing of
the Rite and those representatives have no right to take offa:ial action
on the subject. Brother Street's personal . position is another matter
and his own business, but it should not prejudice Alabama Masons
against the York Grand Lodge of Mexico as it seems to do. He
reviewed that Grand Lodge although not recognized and does the square
thing, as follows:
* * * * * *
If our Masonry is to become anything else than that Brotherhood
under that Fatherhood, we want none of it anymore. We may as well
speak frankly here as elsewhere, and we regard it as a duty to speak
frankly, because we plainly see either ruin, or else a separation into two
factions just in front of American Masonry. This writer is a member
of the Consistory and wishes it well. Still nothing can absolve us from
our duty and allegiance to our old mother, the York Rite. It is a
pity there are two Rites, we need but one. An egg is full; nothing can
be added to its contents. Equally is it true that nothing can be added
to Symbolic Masonry, nor can it be improved upon, try who will. One
of its chief foundation-stones is the perfect equality of its self-governing
membership, as is by no means true of the Scottish Rite. The latter
is under control of a governing body called the Supreme Council. The
rank and fife have no word in their selection and no knowledge of what
they do. '!'hey are not even informed as to their lavish expenditure of
funds raised from fees. This all powerful oligarchy is as irresponsible

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

as was the German Empire before Democracy overthrew it. One of
their late moves towards imperialism is their denial that Masonry can
legitimately use the term York Rite. Descent from a center at York
has been claimed since 1738. This claim is too well established for
debate. The Scottish Rite is a sort of aristocracy incompatible with the
absolute equality so dear to all. They claim to select only those Masons
of sufficient education to appreciate their cultured philosophy; but they
drum for members every day. The scholarship of the Rite is beautiful, if all true. Albert Pike's research into ancient lore was extensive
indeed, whether or not it is all to be accepted, and we frankly acknowledge our own want of erudition to enable us to judge.
Washington:
The time has come when, in the judgment of thi5 Committee, some
action should be taken by this Grand Lodge to limit the use of its
degrees as a basis for membership" in other organizations. In the large
centers few if any Master Masons are permitted to stop at that point
and obtain any adequate knowledge of the C,raft, its history, purposes
and regulations, before they are solicited to "advance." Indeed in many
cases they are solicited and their applications are written and signed
for some of the so-called "higher bodies". before they have completed
their Blue Lodge Degrees. Clubs, societies and other organizations
organize "teams" to exemplify the Degrees as representing these other
societies, and are advertised as a star attraction to gather a large
attendance. As a usual thing -these teams are through the minute they
have conferred the second section of the Third Degree, and the candidate sees a dozen hear the lecture where there had formerly been a
hundred.
What can a candidate think of the sincerity of those who preach the
wondrous beauty of the Blue Lodge until he begins to take the degrees
and then hears nothing from them except the wonders which are yet to
come?
Of cQurse, we are to blame because we do not protect these new
J.fasons. Perhaps we do not purposely degrade them or detract from
them, but we do not positively exalt them. If we continue to permit
our degrees to be merely a vehicle to carry the initiate on to the "real
thing," we have no reason · to complain at his lack of appreciation of
them.
Your Committee therefore feels that it is the positive duty of this
Grand Lodge to protect the dignity, solemnity and importance of her
degrees and the obligations upon which they are based; and he
recommends that it be made a Masonic offense in this jurisdiction to
solicit or propose a Master Mason for membership in any organizaticin
for which that standing is a qualification until such person shall have
been a Master Mason for a period not less than one year.
West Virginia:
Nor must we lose sight of the important fact that candidates must
be disabused of any impression they may have that the Blue Lodge is
simply a stepping stone to the so-called higher degrees. He is in
thorough sympathy and accord with both York Rite and Scottish Rite
Masonry, for each Rite teaches beautiful and sublime lessons, but
fundamentally there are no higher degrees than the three degrees of
Ancient Craft Masonry, and we need to impress upon the Brethren the
n ecessity of not only mastering these degrees, but also having them

61

.
.
d ·
t
e A brother's obligation t~ l'l_is
realize their beauty an. imi;ior 3:ncd. b virtue of his membership m
Blue Lodge is in no wise mm1m1ze
Y
M . Sh . e
rm ·
any of the Scottish Rite or York Rite bodies or in the yst1c
Wisconsin:
"
h · f
He (Broth~ies) e~r~sse~~e :;N:~~db~£;:a~sat~! ~~-~~1i~d
o~ the Grand an!e :g:i<ld':~n~he Brethren taking the degrees in any

1

~~~~~r s~:Wb~ expell~d from. t~~ tLo~~~a~~ y~t~ti~t~al~ha~el~ ~~~ld
5

Grand L odge has no more. r~g me~bers should not also join the Odd
~alt to s:k:i?;~t~~f P~th\as. The so-called higher degrt;es are .ib no
seens~wM~sonic except that they themselves refuse to receive mem ers
who are not Masons.
HISTORY-AMERICAN
The usual inaccurate information, .regarding the Mason.ic aff~l­
iations of public men and their connection with the Fratermty, still
continue to be circulated. It is to be regretted th~t sue~ s~ould be
the case. These fool statements are made without mvest1gatlon, and
after once published are accepted as gospel truth.. A . speaker or
riter who addresses a Masonic audience along this lme, should,
;rst of all, know what he is talking about, but unfortunately too
many of them do not.
Alabama:
"d
J h Q ·
The statement has often been m;ide that Pre.st ent o n 1:1mcy
was made a Masort in 1826. T he statement 1s based on a mtn?te
~lStsJohn's Lodge, Boston. The minute seems t o ~ear Wt ~e c!ftim,
but the scholarly Grand Secretary, Brother Frederick
. am1 on,
says ·
.•
j h ave ex amined the signature to the By-Laws and find that ~t is
unquestionably not that of the President. Prks:tien~ J?~d ?uuH~
Adams' autograph is well kno~n and v~ry" mar e y m 1v1,, ua . he
·
d "J Q Adams " This signature 1s Jno. Q. Adams, and t
s1gne
. in
· no respect
·
handwriting
resembles t hat o f t h e p rest"dent ·

A reference to the Boston Directory s_ho~s t~at J ohi;i Q. Adams
was a printer at 5 Stillman Place, a plllce still m existence m the North
End of Boston.
d ·
th
President Adams was a bitter opponent ?f Masonry . urmg
e
Mor an excitement and is on record as denying tnat. he was ever a
Mas~n Brother Hamilton's testimony settles the question.

.

*

*

*

*

*

*

Grand Master Charles C. Homer said in his Address at the
Annual :
p
·
d t
We are proud of the fact that the Boston Tea Barthy was f eth!~
· d
·
Id St Andrew's Lodge and the ret ren o
~Ide Lod~~n ~~reo willi~g to do and da;e for the benefit of their
brother man.
.
·
f f th
We have several times called for the h1storica1 pro~ o
e
truth of similar statements but it has never been forthcoming.

62

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

District of Columbia:
We ~aid Franc~, :is a Nation, for what she did in the Revolutionary
War, besides submitting to he: plunder of our ships in 1793, and our
surrender of about $15,000,000 in the French spoliation claims. In 1864
France and A u.stria raided Mexico, as a base from which to oppose the
Mon~oe Doctrine. In th_is last war France has gotten $2,000,000,000
to v:indward of .us, · ~es1d~s the benefit of the American regiments
turning the last gigantic drive at Chateau Thierry which saved France
So much for the Nation! But for Masonry and Huguenots France ha~
not for a moment ceased persecution. So far as French 'Masons are
concerned we agree with Brother Milne, but the Nation is indebted
to us.

*

*

*

*

*

*

~EPORT . ON

CORRESPONDENCE

63

Brother Street calls on Brother D. F. Johnson, Grand Orator
of the Grand Lodge of Texas, for proof of his. statement . that
"there is little room for doubt that the plan on which our Nahon'.11
Government is founded had its origin among Masons w~o met in
a Masonic Lodge room and there planned a great republican form
of government.''
While it is true that the leaders among patriots who planned
and laid the foundation upon which our popular government 'Yas
erected, and who wr_ote that immortal document, the Di;clarat10n
of Independence, were Masons, it would be hard to _furnish proof
that they met in a Lodge room for that epoch-making work.

*

*

*

*

*

*

The Gra~d ?e.c:etary repor~ed finding the name of John Quincy
Ad:ims as being initiated and raised in a Massachusetts Lodge in 1826,
which would fit the .President, but that careful and honest Grand
Secretary compared signatures and consulted Boston directories and
proved 1t was another John ; not the President, but a printer. ·
The Grand Master's annual address begins with necrology and
t~e name of Charles T. Gallager, that prince of Grand Masters; who
died on September 28 at Roxbury. He was an active 33d. He was the
salt of the earth.

He mentions many of the leaders in our Government, ~oth in
war and in peace as Masons . He says that the first Continental
Congress was codiposed almost entirely of Mason~, and that Washington and all his Major Generals in the Revolut10nary War were
Masons.
We think, however, he is wrong when he says that Benjamin
Franklin ever was or had been Grand Master of Masons of Pennsylvania. We understand that Ben was a Mason, but never heard
him charged with having been a Grand Master.

South Carolina:
In our ~eview of 1918 we asked Brother Branch to tell us who
~rought to hght the statement that George Washington had been made
G:and Master of Masons throughout the United States" an error
which, unfortunately, has crept into the minds of some Mas~nic writers
·
This is Brother Branch's reply:
Well, here it is :
·
.
History of Freemasonry in Maryland
by Edward T S h ltz 32d
1
Vol. 1, Page 170.
c u •
·
'
•
"At an e~ergent session of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvnaia
January, 1780, it was by ballot determined that it was for the benefit
of ~asonry that there be a 'Grand Master of Masons throughout the
Umted States' and upon ballot 'His Excellency George Washington
Esq., General and Commander-in-Chief was unanimously elected I
The Grand Lo~?'e of Mas.sachusetts, it app~ars, at first thought favorably
of the propos1tion, but 1t fin'.llly co.ncluded that, owing to the small
num~er of ~rand Lodges existing m the country, it was 'premature
and mexped1ent.'
. "From the action of Pennsylvania in 1780 arose undoubtedly the
~1despread _appe}lation of the title of General Grand ' Master to Wash·1n!l'ton-a historical · error which has not yet been eradicated from the
minds of Masons."
·

Louisiana:
We desire to congratulate o~r Order upon the termination of
the great war in which our boys from Yankee Doodle, as . well a~
the sons of Dixie joined hands and went over to France m order
to teach the world new lessons in patriotism, and devotion to the
Holy Cause of Liberty and genuine Democracy. We hear _mucp
about making the world safe for Democracy, but to my mmd 1t
is just as important to ~ake De~r10cr'.1cy safe for the world by the
education of the people in the right ideals .of Government. . If the
people could be ma~e to _believe and :eahze the true obJect for
which Government, m their last analysis, should stand, then Bolshevism, Socialism, and all similar isms woul1 die for lack of fuel
upon which · to feed . One of the great teachings. of Freemasonry
is absolute loyalty to the Government and obedience to law and
the constituted authorities.
Our forefathers have demonstrated their patriotic devotion to
this blessed' country. This may be emphasized by the fact that
a large number of the. si~ners of the D~claration of Independence,
as well as the Conshtut1on of the United States, we.re members
of our Fraternity. The great leaders of the 'Revolutionary War,
including General George Washington and practically all of his
commissioned officers, were Free Masons. A large number of th'e
Presidents of this great Republic have ~onored ou; Fraternity by
paying tribute to its benevolent teachings and its deep moral
philosophy.
We have referred to the fact that Grand Master Livingston, by
virtue of his office as Chancellor of the State, administered to
George Washin.g~ o n ~he inau gura.ti o ~ oath, on April ~O, 1789. There
is connected with this event an incident of keenest interest to the
Fraternity:
The marshal of the day was General Jacob Morton, who was
Master .of St. John's Lodge, No. 1, at that time and later became

. · My r~aders will note. that Pennsylvania is responsible for the

mistake~ idea that Washington was ever "General Grand Master."

The United States never had, and never will have1 a General Grand
Master.
Texas:
The report of the C?mmittee on Foreign Correspondence is
the. work o.f Brother Oliver J?a~ ?treet1 and is a well prepared
rey1ew .of s1~ty-five Grand Junsd1ct10ns, including Texas for 1918
this being his fourth report.
·
'

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Grand Master of the State. When Chancellor Livingston rose tc.
perform the part of the program assigned to him, it was found that
no Bible had been provided. From the Fedenl Hall, on Walt
Street, where the inauguration of the first President of the Republic
took place, to the meeting rooms of St. John's Lodge was only a
few stef s. General Morton went quickly and brought the altar
Bible o the Lodge, with its cushion of crimson velvet. Upon this
Masonic Bible the first President was sworn. After repeating the
oath of office, he bowed reverently and kissed the page of the
sacred Book on which his right hand had rested. There was a
moment of profound silence. Then Chancellor Livingston exclaimed solemnly and with loud voice, "Long live George Washington, President of the United States!" The tension with which
the assembled multitude of people had followed the simple ceremonies of the inauguration was released. A thousand voices joined
in the acclamation as with one voice, "Long live George Wash-·
ington !" The President thereupon proceeded to the Senate Chamber to deliver his first address as Chief Magistrate of the free and
independent Union of States.
The Bible used on this occasion was returned to the Lodge, in
whose possession it has remained to this day. The pages on which
the hand of George Washington had rested and which received
the imprint of his reverent kiss have been skilfully mounted with
transparent silk to preserve them from defacement. The pages
are those of Genesis, Chapter 49.
The Bible bears the publication date of 1767. It was presented
to the Lodge by Jonathan Hampton, on November 28, 1775, the
night on which he was elected an installed as Master. The cover
bears in gold lettering this inscription: "God shall establish. St.
Joh n's Lodge constituted 5757. Burnt down 8th March, 5770; rebuilt and opened November 28, 5770; officers then presiding: Jonathan Hampton. Master; William Butler, Senior Warden; Isaac
Heron, Junior Warden."
On a page inserted after the inauguration of the firs.t President
w e read these beautifully engrossed words:
"On this sacred volume, on the 30th day of April, A. L. 5789,
in the City of New York, was administered to George W ashnigton,
the first President of the United States of America, the oath to
support the Constitution of the United States. This important ceremony was performed by the Most Worshipful Grand Master of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York, the Honorable Robert R. Livingston, Chancellor of the State."
INVESTIGATION OF CANDIDATES
There is too great a laxity in the investigation of candidates,
due to the fact that the committee does or will not properly perform
its duty. In some of the Jurisdictions Lodges have made it a
practice to investigate a petitioner informally by having him appear
before a Committee of Past Masters and Officers of the Lodge.
If he passes their scrutiny satisfactorily, his petition is received and
regularly presented the usual committee appointed and another
investigation made. This is a custom that could well be introduced

65

in ev.ery Lodge with great benefit to itself. At the presen.t ti~e
we are inclined to favor the individual rather than the organiz~t~on
as a whole. The record of suspensions fo~ ~·
D. and exp sion
for un-Masonic conduct in some of the J~nsd1c~1ons, for the P~~:~~
ing· year has been one-quarter of the gam dun~g the year.
s
figures show that our present growth, at least m some States, ha
not been a healthy one.

!'·

British Columbia:
.
d h
•t
s
The Grand Master (Canada) had bfen mforme "tt~eaiol .. ~~­
becoming the custom in certain Lodges or a ~ommi
h
re
0

£~~~.~1;dre~~ie~J:~if~~:~~~~~:'.~ rr~:~~!!!fiit~£~f~~~~h~e ~~~~<l
t~i:e ~tc~~~da c_lt;arly layds down the pr?c~f~ifa;l~ ~~:ii~~~w!~
1

in· disposing of. petitions, an a.s our own is
•
hope our Lodges will take notice.
*
• * • * •
· made of t h e ru1·mg o f th e Grand. Master· ofr Canada
Note 1s
'bl to
that "a petitioner who could not r~ad or wri~orwahism:uW~ge are
· ·· f
" nd the Grand Master s reasons
.
~h1tla h~nl'no~ at all convincing." Brother Street ~elieves the ;ulm~
t ob: "opposed to history and to the ah;no~t universal practdce .o _
t 0 da " we hope that Brother Street 1s m error here, an . s~n

~~d~ot;u~~i::i! ~~~ ~~~:~: g ·f ~~t~¥h~::~ih~e/s&n/~~~11

bet th;ha~h:~f:a~le ~r~n~hc~f edu~~~io~, which te.nds so effectually
~~ ~olish and a.,1orrt the mind, is ear.nestly committed to your consideration, etc.
Connecticut:
.
·
In the report of the Grand Secretary, we find .a timely caut1.~h

~~~;t!~ ~~~emt'h1~it~~aer~~t:rp~lj~!~ohnsp~~iiX~;~~~:~t'i~;~:~~?cE~~t

mony in our Lodges be not disturbed.. . P p ' f th f t that
L 0 d s have been brought to a realtzmg sense o
e ac
h
ge S khaki does not in itseH guarante~ <;haracter.. In eac
~~~e~.;_ n~wly admitted soldier was found gmlty of uttering bogµI!
checks.
District of Columbia:
.
.
.
.
Instances of great laxity on the part of mveshga~mg co~mtt­
tees in not inquiring closely into the mental and phy~tcal 1\laltfica~
tions of candidates have been brought to my .attention.
~ some
.
l' • i g physical maims were not discovered until after
cases d 1squa uy n .
E
d A
f
D gree and a
the candidate appeared for the ntere
~pren tee
e
, . h
M ster informs me that five members of hts Lodge .ar~ now m ~ e
G~vernment Hospital for t?e Insai;ie, one of whom 1s infected with
an incur.abfe and commumcable disease.
.
.
o f the instructi.ons a cQmmittei: member receives with the
ootific~tloon of his agpointm~nt is to "asc~rtain if the .~pplica,nt
f ms to the four requisites for becommg a Mason, two. of
~hi~h are mental soundness and physical ability t o "conform liter-

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ally to all the requirements of the several degrees in Ancient Craft
Masonry." If h.e does not l?erform this duty he is guilty of unpardonable negligence, and 1f he thereby opens· the door of his
Lodg~ to a person who is mentally or physically unfit for membership he should be subjected to the discipline of the Lodge. I
recoml?end that Masters impress upon committee members the
great importance of a faithful and diligent investigation of the
mental and physical fitness of candidates.
I llinois :
. Gr~nd Masters have complained during the past year of great
laxity 1.n !he matter of i!J-vestigating _petitioners for the degrees.
The pnnc1pal r<:asons assigned for this apparent Masonic neglect
are to be found m the overwhelming number of petitions which are
s.ent to Lodg;es and the inability to get members to devote proper
time. to lookmg up those who apply for the privileges of the fraternity. It cannot be doubted but this is an age which demands
the careful scrutiny of everyone who knocks at the door of the
l?dge. There a;e so ma!ly individ_uals. in the country at the present
time who hold ideas which are at vana:nce to those of the Masonic
;50ciety t~at th~ admission of such would be a most serious calamity. It 1s believed that the problem of proper investigation of
petitioners for degrees i~ one: which ought t<;> be worked out along
ne~ :ind mo:e pro_gre~s1ve fmes: The old idea of secrecy in apP?m.tmg an mvestigatmg committee and the present practice of
picking anybody as a member of such committee does not comport
with pres.ent day cond!tions. It is believed that we have· reached
a P~:1od m our Masomc development when a single committee on
pet1t10ns composed of men who have the time and ingenuity to
devot~ to the cau~e wo~ld be. desirable; It i.s an old saying that
what is everybody s busmess 1s nobody s busmess and this seems
to . b.e largely true in the :natter o.f i~vestigating candidates for the
pnv.1 leges of the fraternity. This 1s a problem with which the
Society must g~apple sC!oqer or later and it is believed that it can
~e worked out ~n due !1me. when thoughtful men give to the subject that attention which 1t ;5hould receive.
Ireland:
~~ late several Lodges have ~ubmitted for approval a by-law
prov1dmg. that the· .names of candidates sh<?uld first be s.ubmitted
to a standmg comm!ttee, and only proposed m Lodge with the consent of that committee. The Board of General Purposes disapproved of., this attempt. t<;> limit the rights of the members, and
held that ~very subscnb1ng Master Mason has an inherent right
to propose m open Lodge a candidate for admission to his Lodge
after which the Lodge m~y either refuse to accept the proposal 0 ;
refer the n.ame to a c_om1!11ttee. of scruti~eers for inquiry and report,
or otherwise deal with 1t as 1t may think right, but this must be
after and not before the actual proposal."
Michigan :
J'his is a matter that is vital to every Lodge and to the whole
fabric of M.asonry. The Inve~tigating Committee appointed by the
~aster to mterview the candidate is under great responsibility to
his Lodge. They are ;;uppo~ed to personally interview the candidate and to report their findmgs to the Lodge, and this report, in

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

67

my estimation, is too limited. Many times committees have signed
a report before leaving the Lodge room; ;nen are ta~en i~to !he
Order that Masonry would be better off without; the mvest1gatton
of a candidate should be more full and complete. I have found
that a few Lodges in Michigan seem to have found the right solution by means of a questionnaire · system.
Missouri:
Perhaps our greatest obligation at the present time is that of
protecting the Fraternity from the admission of the unworthy, and
especially from those who are unmindful of their duties to God,
their country, and humanity at large; and who cannot or do not
understand· what true citizenship and fraternal fellowship mean.
While the inner door of our tiled Lodges should ever swing wide
open for the reception of the worthy and well-qualified, it should
as readily close tightly against those whose curiosity or ambitions
do not square with those ideals so frequently_. set before us in all
our Masonic teachings.. Let Freemasonry continue to be a benefi·
cent, unambitious, artd disinterested guide, ever showing forth an
abiding faith in humanity, and an uncon9ue;a,ble hop~ for t?e fu!ure
· prosperity of the world. And may we mdividually, m lovmg kmdness, press ever onward in the great cause of universal truth and
righteousness, being quick to shatter idols that hold the souls of
men in bondage, always mindful of our responsibility to Almighty
God, ever remembering that "In His Court of High Chancery, the
rules of right and not of might will be strictly enforced against
those who have taken unjustly, wealth, rank, influence, reputation
or affection." And, "the God of love and peace will delight to dwell
with and bless us."

*

*

*

*

*

*

The Investigating Committee in ·the Lodge is, unquestionably,
the most important committee in the Lodge, but the system of investigating candidates is in most cases entirely too lose. I have
known men to be initiated, passed and raised_ in a Lodge, who, at
the time they filed their applications, were absolutely unknown to
anyone in the Lodge; even proposer and ·seconder had never seen
them. I have known a man to be introduced a petitioner to a
Lodge so that he could sign his application five minutes after. As
long as that looseness in taking in members prevails, some of the
men that we are taking in are going to do us great injury,
N ew Jersey:
Much has been said-by some-of the enemies of Masonry.
Undoubtedly we have many such-organized and individualthough they are showing their inability to do us real harm. The
enemy we should most fear is the enemy in our own ranks, the
man who, by his conduct, brings criticism and obloquy on our
Fraternity; and we must remember ~hat all such-and it is useless
to deny that they exist-have been proposed for membership by
two Masons, investigated by three other Masons, and finally admitted to membership by a clear ballot. It has been said that
every organism carries within itself the seed!! of its own decay.
This may also be true of organizations and institutions. The germ
that may injure us is no outside germ, however, violent it may be,
·but one of our own making.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New South Wales:
fo establishing this general system of Investigation Committees, I had in view also the avciiding the use oi the black ball, so
frequent a source of trouble in the Lodge. Any Brother with a
valid objection to a candidate has the oppGrtuni.t y of pla.cing his
objection before the committee, and if this prove well-founded, the
proposition would doubtless be withdrawn. There may possibly
be occasions on which the use of the black ball is fully justified,
and the ;Mason who, through selfish or cowardly reasons, fails in
his tluty in this regard has little ·consideration for the welfare of
the Institution, or for. the · terms of his obligation. Utterly despicable, however, is the conduct of one actuated by persona.I motives,
or some "'.cirldly 01o1tsi~e difference, who under secrecy of the sacred
ballot strikes from his safe ambush a worthy and unsuspecting
victim. ' There is no room in Freemasonry for men of this description, who so fail to realize the enormity of their offense in thus
revenging some small personal difference. Let the Brethren ever
remember that the ballot is the Mason's most .sacred privilege, and
must always be used with the purest and highest of motives.

3. Ascertain his business, how he has been employed. th~rei~,
what is thought ,of him by his employers, whether there 1s ltkehhood of his becoming a charge upon the Lodge.
4. Ascertain his rep.utation for discharging his financial obl_i·gations.
·
5. Ascertain his general moral reputation and social status.
6. Ascertain from the Gra.nd Secretary at Masonic 'I_'emp\e
whether the applicant has ever been rejected by a Lodge m this
Jurisdiction.
7. From the information you can obtain, decide whether the
applicant is one with whom. you are. willing to. associate and would
recommend to others for hke relat10ns. Remember that you-r report is to be based o n your own investigation, .and ma.de independently of the action of anyone else. A ,blank 1s provided on each
application for the report of th.e c om~1ttee, and rep ort should be
made thereon. If it be found 1mpract1cable for any reason to so
report, send a written report to the Secretary. in the form herewith,
recomwending favorable o r unfavorable action by the Lodge as
the case may be.
8. No committee should be satisfied with having fo~nd nothing against a candidate. It must be able to report ~avmg found
him worthy and exemplary or unworthy. If there 1s any doubt
the Lodge must have the benefit of it.
T o these sugg;.estions I would recommend that there be added
ara0ther instruction, viz.:
9. State your reasons clearly in every case w.hy you recommend the acceptance or the rejection of the application.

68

Rhode Island:
We are n-0w living in a period of most unusual interest in
Masonry and 6-ur Lodges are, without excepti~, receivi~g more
apt»lications "from candidates than ever before in tbeir history.
Many are worthy and some are not. It is a serious problem to
maike these distinctions. There is no subject of more >importance
to th•e Craft than. to prepare for the future strength en the OTder
by the addition of a strong membership. I feel that there has not
been sufficient attention paid to this subtect iti the past and tbat
out system of investigatiion has not bc:en sufficiently thorongh.
These comments apply especially to the larger L o dges where ap•
plications have bee-n received ia .•1.mprecedente'd nnmbers. I feel
that · tft.c Master and Wardens, with the assistance of their line
officers, should in most instances g:ive more attention to the work
of paS1!ing up on -thie ·qualifications of candidates. Upon these new
members and upon the work of these Committees eventually depends the welfare and pros.perlty of the Lodge. These Committees
should receive full and explicit instructions as to their duties. The
members of the Lodge should be urged to lay at all times before
the Master and the Lodge all information for or against any applicant which he may possess. This practice, however, is not ·foHowed
as generally as it should be . . I have had called to my attention ·a
set of instructions 1:0 Committees on ap.plicants which are in use
in som·e of the Lodges in the jurisdiction of New York and which
I recommend for .t be consideration of our Lodges. They may well
be altered and amended and printed on the notification .blanks sent
to the committees. They are offered as suggestions, · and are as
follows :
Instructions.
1. Visit the appllicant and form an opinion frO'lll actual view
and conversation.
2. Ascertain if the applicant conforms to the four requisites
for becoming a Mason.

69

Saskatchewan:
To the minds of some Masonic students the fact that a countless hast of petiti0ners are crowding the doors of Lodge$ in this as
well as every other Grand Jurisdiction, constitutes a serious problem. To me this condition lays before our Lodges as never before
the duty of choosing wisely and well .the · ro!1g~ ashlars for t.he
builders' use, to see that those who gam adm1ss1on are ~en w:1th
reasonable intelligence moral character and personal mtegnty.
Might not our L odges ' profitably adopt the principle of inquirin.g
as to what a ipetitioner has done C?r is ~oing for the benefit of ~1s
fellowmen t o merit favorable cons1derat10n rather than the passive
attitude so commonly adopted of simply satisfying themselves that
the petitioner has been guilty of no miscond'-!c.t wh ich would bar
his way? In other words, should not the positive rather .than the
negative side of a petitioner ' ~ ch.aracter be carefully considered to
ascertain whether or not he 1s likely to become a potent asset to
the Craft by the exercise and influence of his intelligence and moral
worth.
Tennessee:
The large _influx into ~he Masonic Order during the past _few
years is a matter. of no h~tle concern to tJi~se wh? enterta1~ a
proper conception of the high moral and social duties ~or. which
the Fraternity stands. Undoubtedly some men seek adm1ss1on out
of idle curiosity, others aspire simply to assume the titles and wear

70

REPORT ON CORRESPO~DENCE

the insignia, while still others fondly imagine that upon its membership the Lodge confers certain mysterfous rights, privileges and
prerogatives.
.
The mission of Masonry is too sacred a matter in the light of
.
the present day need to longer allow the approaches to its memberships to be obscured or unnecessarily veiled to the applicant. Masonry is too generally judged by the deportment of its members
to longer risk affiliation on the part of any but good men and true.
The seven letters of Masonry are symbols and when translated they form the seven letters of Service. The word Service.
is but a symbol of our duties, obligations and responsibilities, and
when measured by the rule of human relationships they become the
pass-words to the hidden mysteries of a life of perfect happiness.
Not infrequently our committees bring in favorable reports .
based on an investigat\on of the most perfunctory nature and the
candidate is elected on simply hearsay evidence. What an attractive opportunity this system presents to the man with selfish or
ulterior motives. Evidence is at hand to support the contention
that men no higher in type than the Communists of the Russian
International have attempted to enter our ranks and in instances
have probably succeeded and for what purpose? In the name of
Liberty: In the name of all that we hold most sacred: Shall we
be indifferent to this menace?
We are awake to the situation in all its phases here in Memphis. Already in most of our Blue Lodges a special Inquisitorial
and Educational · Commission has been appointed by their ;videawake Masters.
This commission meets an evening or two preceding the stated
meeting and with the investigating committee's reports in hand it
is required that e.a ch applicant appear before them individually.
These commissions, composed of highly intelligent and zealous
men, then inquire very diligently into the candidate's motives in
applying for membership, his conception .of Civic duty and his
viewpoint regarding education. The applicant is then instructed
in some of the fundamentals of the Society's relation to the affairs
of men in terms of service.
Wnile the above plan is somewhat of a departure from cummon
practice and cqmparatively recent in its origin, the innovation has
more than demonstrated its usefulness. Careful consideration by
all Lodges is recommended.
Virginia:
We frequently see allusions to this same laxity on the part of
these committees, and only yesterday we met a friend who belongs
to an organization using this system. He was sorely puzzled because he had been put on a Committee of Investigation and did
n?t know how to act in a difficult situation. He could get no defin~te facts as to . the ;:iarty and yet he heard rumors that disturbed
h1!11. J:It: expressed fears that whichever way he might report he
might mJure the man or the Lodge. Perhaps experience taught
o ur forefathers in Virginia Masonry the inefficiency of the system
and the happy result was throwing the whole burden of proof of
entire fitness on the petitioners through his avouchers. Having
no su~~ .committees, avouchers know that theirs is the grave respons1b1hty and our Masons are very chary of signing petitions

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

71

unless very sure of the .candidate's entire fitl!-ess . " It is commhn
· for a Virginia Mason to say when asked to sign, I do know t e
gentleman and have no doubt he is all right, ~ut I h~ve not known
him long enough or intimately enough to be of servfce. h ~e!, soWe
one who knows him better and who .can say more. or . 1m.
~
find our system of allowing no Committee of Invest1!fatlon ~o wor.
perfectly. The argument that what is everybody s busmess is .
nobody's would have some weight but that our Masons r~~use to
take any man on negative grounds. We a~w:ays want positive assurance and it must not be a matter of opm1on but of k~o.wledg~.
Many of us refuse to accept the statement that th~ petitio~er. is
"a member of my church and Sunday School and 1s a Christian
gentleman." That may do as a general i~dex, but we want to k_now
more as to his character and we demand 1t, . or he does not get m.
Wisconsin:
We heartily indorse the pos1t10n taken in this ruling. · Where
"bulletins" of this nature are sent thro~gh the m_ails to all the
members some of them are pretty certain to ~all mto han~s
whom they were not intended. In our own little comm~,IJlty o
two thousand inhabitants we have four persons named W. H.
Thomas." Two are members of our Lodge and t~o ar~ pr?fan~s.
The danger from making use of this means of d1ssemmatmg information is obvious . But .why use any meth?d?· The member
who habitually attends the communications of his Lodge ~oes not
need to be told who is petitioning for ·the degrees. He will know
by having been in attendance. It is the stay-at-home member, wh.o
is too indolent or too indifferent to attend, to .whom the a,ppeal is
made by such means. If such a member receives such a Tr~stle
Board" and he has no objection to those whose names are !1sted
he still remains away; but, if he has _a personal. grudge or spite to
satisfy he attends on that one occas10n and reJects one who perha s i$ ' more worthy and who would make a better mem~er than
h/is himself. Why gratify this class of members ~Y enablu~g them
to get in their work with the least possible expenditure of time and
energy on their part?

fof

MASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIATION
The Masonic Service Association still continues to function, and
is no doubt doing good work. Having been organized during the
V:ar period, 'the enthusiasm which marked its formation has na.turally waned. If it did nothing else than demonstrate that the 1de.a
of a general Grand Lodge can never exist in the United States, 1t
has performed cine "service. The following extracts fr.om the last
report are of interest as showing the present membership.
The Grand Lodges of New Mexico and Philippine Islai:ids
have joined the Association during the past year. Th.e ~ollo~mg
named Jurisdictions have withdrawn from the Associat10n smce
our last meeting:
Washington, June 8th.
Idaho, September 7th.
Colorado, September 14th.
Kentucky, October 19th.

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The membership of the Association of .the present time is composed of thirty-five Grand Jurisdictions, as follows: Alabama, A11izona, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Ge.orgia;
Iowa, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, No11th
Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Philippine Islands1
Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas,
Utah, Wyoming.
-;r'he Grand Lodge of California has given a most respectful
hearing to our plans, and has sent delegates to this meeting to get
first-hand information concerning the· spirit and intent cif this movement. The men who are here are men of vision. Many of you
know the splendid work .that is being done by the Grand Lodge of
California along educational lines. At our division meeting in California last summer we found every evidence of their fraternal
interest in our educational program. California has never before
been represented in our sessions. Let us hope that the earnestness
and accomplishments in this meeting will satisfy them that they
can better serve the Craft at large by allying themselves with us.
Since our last meeting reports have been submitted to
seve~al Jurisdic~ions indicating a lack of faith in this organization
and m the motives of those· who have been prompted to help in.
building it. The wide circulation of these reports in both member
and non-member Jurisdictions. makes it necessary that this Association should take some notice of them. When these citculars first
came out there were members of the Executive Commission who
believed that an immediate answer should be formulated. Some
are still of that opinion, and feel tha·t it was a mistake that these
months have been allowed to go by without an answer.
Florida :
The Correspondence Report (Orego11) is by M.'. W.'. Brother
David P . Mason:
·
He spends considerable space upon the matter of the
"Overseas Mission" and was ordered by the Grand Lodge to
incorporate the entire report of the Mission as printed by the
committee who visited France and as published by the Grand
Lodge of .New York, in his report for this year. He thus perpetuates the circumstances attending the refusal by the Administration
in Washington to permit the mission to go "overseas" and places
the blame ~here it really ~as . The fact that th~ private secretary .
to the President of the United States was permitted to yield such
power that he was able to prevent the committee from the Masonic
Bodies from going to the scene of activities in France and there
assist in the relief of the Masons in the service of their country
is one of the blackest spots in the history of our National Government.

*

*

*

*

*

*

This JurisdictiOn is not represented on the Executive Committee, and naturally is not in close touch with the Association and
its present aims. We can, therefore, ol}ly judge of the effectiv~ess
and value of the Association from the literature received from time
to time. As we are abou.t to sever our relations with the Association, we certainly have no desire to criticise or impede it in its
'

.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

73

work, yet it would seem proper that we should, in withdra.w~~g,
give reasons for our so doing, especially as. we favored the. 1ni~1al
plan as we understood it, i. e., an Association t.ha~ ~ould· furnish
a i>oint of union among the several Grand Jun~d1ct10ns thro.ugh
which, in an emergency, the ;M'!-sorrs of the U mted Stati;s might
act as a solid body· an Assoc1at10n that would act as an information bureau through which the Grand Jurisdictions might be kept
informed on current affairs affecting, or of benefit to, the great body
of Masonry, and to which; through its permanent Secreta;y, any
Grand Jurisdiction might apply for information on Masonic matters as occasion required.
·
Instead, the Association app_~ars to have branched 01:1t ~n a
line of general education at an expense that hardly seems iusttfied
by the results achieved, while the, expressed int~ntion of prepar~ng
and publishing educational bo~ks does not .stnke anY. res~ons1ve
cord in the minds of the committee. There 1s already rn existence
ample written material from which any compet~nt lecturer can
inform himself in preparing addresses on the duties Masons owe
to their God their neighbor, their Country or themselves. For
these reason~ and for the reasons and objections stated by our
M.".W." .Grand Master, in his address, your committee recommend
the adoption of the following resolution:
Re'solved, That the Grand Lodge of Florida hereby withdraws
and severs its membership in, and with the Masonic Service Associ. ation- in accordance with the notice of the Grand Master.
Illinois:
A large number of Grand Lodges have already joined the
Masonic Service Association as conceived and put into effect by
our Brethren of Iowa. There are a number of other Grand Lodges,
however which have declined to join in this movement and who
· have de~lared themselves as opposed to snch an organization on
the ground that the prerogatives of the individual Grand Lodge are
attachied. There is no doubt in the world but the idea behind 'the
Masonic 5ervice Association is correct, however faulty the plan
·may be .and regardless of what errors may have been made in the
formation and organization of the society. Enough Grand Lodges
have already joined the association to make it one of force in the
Masonic war.Id. Those Grand Lodges which do not unite with
the society .are simply within their personal privileges and by withholding a membership will by no m!!ans impede the progress of ii:n
endeavor which promises so much for the co-ordination of Masonic
effort. The outcome will be watched with much interest. The
writer believes that q#timately all Grand 1 odises will be united in
some sort of an organization which will tend to unite and direct
the energy of the Fraternity toward a definite purpose and .a higher
reality.
Kentucky :
As have other Grand Masters, he goes over the matter of the
rejection of Masonic. service overseas, and, of course, reaches the
same conclusions; ' hence he is enthusiastic for the Masonic Service
Association. It has always appeared to us, .maybe-however, we
are a little too hot-headed to counsel wisely-that the true inwardness of that overseas matter ought to be, if it has not been, fully
established, and there should be some plain talking out in meeting.

*

*

*

*

*

*

75

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

North Dakota:
. North Dakota views with wonder the furious and unreasonable
a~tttude of. our ~rethren of Illinois and Washington.
The persistence with which they dig up ghosts and skeletons of General
Grand Lodges,. whic~ have he~n .positively and finally laid to rest
by th~ Masonic S~rv1~e As~OCl<l;hon, would lead us to believe that
there 1s no s~ch t.hmg m their mmds as honesty of Masonic purpose.
How any fa1r-mmded man and Mason could desire to block the
developi:uent of a. unif<;>ld Ma~onic spirit in America, passes compreh.ens10n, espec1'.11ly m the hght of our war experiences and the
pers1s.t ent and unified effort.s ~f the enem~es of Freemasonry in
America. Th~ Masons of Illmo1s and Washmgton, that is the rank
and file,. feel JUSt as the rank and file of Masons do everywhere in
the Umted States and sooner or later their leaders will find it out.

writer if it is likely to liave the tendency feared by the Illinois
committee. "Nearly every representative who attended the Cedar
Rapids meeting," says the committee, "was prompt to resent the
suggestion that this Masonic Service Association could develop
into a national Grand Lodge and so far as we know nobody is in
favor of a national Grand Lodge who will openly say so. But we
know from experience that we cannot constitute a body and isive
it that indisputable attribute of sovereignty, namely, to levy taxes
and ever reclaim the power thus given it short of a r.ebellion. We
are not in favor of a national Grand Lodge. We verily believe
that this Masonic Service 'Association of the United States will
either in a few years begin to exercise the functions . of such a national Grand Lodge or will disintegrate because of its demonstrated uselessness. In our opinion there is nothing to justify this
organization. There is nothing that can be attained by its existence. Of course, it would promote good fellowship to bring together distinguished Maso.n s of the several States in annual conferences where they might shake hands, become acquainted with
each other and have a good time. It would create a committee
who might travel about the country in . gay junketing parties,
paying liberal expense accounts out of the funds which can so
easily come from the Grand Lodges which are members of the
association. This association, in our opinion, has in it an element
of real dange.r. We feel that Illinois can live very comfortably
and happily without it."

74

Oklahoma:
The Gran~ ~odge of. Idaho has gi_ven notice to the Masonic
Service ~ssoc1aho~ that 1t wants to withdraw, as it is a question
wher~ wise men differ. We copy the proceedings relative to the
question:
.."At the !ime we became members of this Association the war
sp1i:1t :W<l;S still prevalent and the hope was that all of the Grand
Junsdict10~s of the lJnited States would join in the organization,
thus. formmg one umted body of the Masons of this country for
the mtended work. It now appears this cannot be expected. The
largest number of qrand Jurisdictions belonging at any one time
has not exceeded thirty-seven. Some of the jurisdictions have reported advers~ly ~fter investigating the proposed plan. Among
those not ~o~i~g mto the organization are Sl2.me of the strongest
Grand Jurisdictions. Furthermore, at least one Jurisdiction has
form~ll:r withd.rawn and it is ' reported that others are contemplatmg similar action.
·
We, th~refore, recommend that this Grand Lodge withdraw
from the S<l;id Masonic. Service As~ociati~n and the Grand Secretary
be and. he 1s he:e~y directed t<? give notice of our withdrawal from
the said Assoc1ahon, as provided by the By-Laws thereof. We
further i:ecommend that <i;ll obligations of this Grand Lodge to the
Assoc1atJon to date be paid from our General Fund."
·
The ~rand Lo_dge of. Oklahoma, on the recommendation of
some _of. its most mfluenttal members, became a member of the
Assoc1at10n. Th~ 9klahoma Scribe has. been of the opinion that
~he movement ~ngmally was· result of disappointment by the originators no~ gettmg the Washington authorities to 0. K. their plan!;
and then mstead of find!ng fault with ~he Government, placed all
the blame o!1 th<; Catholic church, and 1s endeavoring to array the
Masons agamst 1t.
Quebec:
.
T~e Masonic Service Association of the United States was
mvestigated by a committee appointed by the Grand Master tried
in the bal:inces and found wanting. The committee felt that 'it was
the openmg wedge to a general Grand Lodge and therefore
: ecommended that the Grand Lodge of Illinois ref~ain f;om joinin~
1t. The Grai:id Master and the . Grand Lodge both approved the
recommendation, but not one whit more so than would the present

Virginia :
In Brother Schoonover's report on the Masonic Service Association, we find some things we cannot agree with besides the one
great thing of the need or advisability of its existence. The only
one we quote this time is:
b. Freemasonry is looked up to by the world, whether we
will it so · or otherwise, as an educational agency and a molder of
public opinion. As such, the Fraternity as a whole has a tremendous responsibility.
c. Freemasonry should therefore speak its mind on world
problems.
·
Opposite the above we penciled. "No." The less we meddle in
the world's affairs, especially political and religious affairs, the
better will our silent beneficent influence be felt. We once were
and should still be a secret society along these very lines. How
often does holding the tongue even under great provocation accomplish more for good than could oossiblv result from controversy. Wise wives and mothers understand this far better than
the average man supposes. Let us learn from them. Our chief
opposition to this Association is its federation, but a good second
is that it talks too much.
West Australia:
We were not aware that the Masonic Fraternity needed saving.
Even if it does. we have yet to learn that the Masonic Service
Association is the only thing which can do it. If we are to have
Freemasonry unifie d down to giving a candidate three degrees
within three days after his election we feel we can do without unification; in fact, we have no wish to be saved.

76

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MISCELLANEOUS ORGANIZATIONS
There · are undoubtedly too many organizations having as a
prerequisite for joining membership in the Masonic Fraternity. As
there is no need for them, and a number are started simply to boost
certain individuals or for financial gain, they cannot, by reason of
this fact, expect to survive. The present situation appears to be
analogous to that which existed in Fr.ance during the Eighteenth
Century when there were over two hundred side degrees or orders
connected with the general Masonic organization in that country.
In time they all died out, and we look for that to be the result from
the present condition of affairs.
Alabama:
.
B.rother H. R:· Coleman addressed Grand Lodge on Mason•Y
m 9nental countries, and Grand Lodge adopted the f.ollowing resolution :
Resolved by the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, That the Rev.
H. R. Coleman be, and he is, hereby invited to visit subordinate
L?dg~s of . ~en~ucky; giving account of his travels in various countries mvestigatmg the various forms and ceremonies of Masons
and searching for Masonic light, and to confer the Oriental Order
of Masonry on Brethren who may desire the same.
. Our readin~ teaches us that there is no genuine· Masonry in
Onental countries except such as has been carried there by Marons
of Europe and America. A·ny "Oriental Order of Masonry" that
may b~ there is, in our judgment, spurious and a recent fabrication ..
':Ne thmk Ken·tuck.Y made a serious mistake when it gave apparent
1ndorsement to this pretense. We have enough pattasites afready
clinging to the Masonic body.
.

*

*

*

*

*

*

. Sons of Hiram.-This was the name assumed by an organizatioi:i of Masons of northeastern Montana. the declared · objects of
which were "the cementin!{ together in close ties the Brethren of
that section and the handling of matters of general interest to
Masons." W hile applauding the zeal .of these Brethren Grand
Master Hutchinson was not sure of the wisdom of such -~ movement. He thought. and we agree with him. that ' 'these things
should be done strictly in the name of Masonry." If lodges do
no~ exist for just these purposes, then for what purpos·e do they
exist? If such adiuncts are necessary, then it is a confession that
t~~ ancient ?rganization of. Masons, the Lodge, has failed. In addition to hem~ a degree mill, the Lodge should be a social circle
and a study club.
Georgia:
Among th·e communications received by the Grand Ma:ster was
one requesting recognition and approval of a proposed society to
be known as the Knights and Ladies of Jerico. We would experience little surprise if the Fraternity should' receive a reciuest for
recognition from the Sons and Daughters of I-Will-Arise i

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

77

Kansas:
.
A request was presented to the Grand M<i:ster for the re~ogni­
tion of an organization known as "The Knights and Ladies of
J~rico." The Grand Mas~.r responded that the Grand Lo?ge. alone
could extend such recogmmin and suggested that the a.pphcatton be
n1tade through the offrce of th>ll Grand Secretary. We wonder where
it will all end? Does any one know why any Grand Lo.dge of
Masons should recognize anything but legitimate Sy'?lboltc Masonry, composed of the degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellow
Craft, and Master Mason?
Nebraska:
Under date of March 1st, I received. a commm:1i.cation frotn
Katherine Remington of Omaha, requesting recQgmt1oi: a.nd approval of a proposed society to b~ ko.own :is th~ Knights .and
Ladies of Jerico. It is sai~ th.at .the r1h1al of ~hts society exempltfies
Biblical clnaractets and 1s s1m1lar, :yet unlike the ~eremo!1~es of
initiation in the Order of the Eastern Star, of which petitioners
are required to be members.
On March 8th I replied to this communic.ation, sta~ing that
recognition could be secured only through action by this Gr~nd
Lodge. I sugl!l'ested to Mrs. Remington that she present the claims
of this society in the regular way through the office of the Grand
Secretary. I assume that this will be dorte and that the m!ltter
will come before the Grand Lodge through the proper committee.
Idaho:
This movement originated in the northeastern part of the State .
The objects of this organization seem to be•. "the cementing .together in closer ties the Brethren of that section a nd the handhng
of matters of general interest to Masons."
At this time some chronic grumbler arises and propounds the
following questions: "What is the object of a body of Master
Masons?" The Grand Master handled the sub.i ect diplo~atic~lly,
but seems to be on the top rail of the fence. He says: Possibly
most of this work coul~ be done at .Lodge meetings, called as sµch ."
The committee to which the sub1ect was referred presented the
following:
"We, your committee to whom was referred that p~rtion of
the Most Worshipful Grand Master's addrus .e ntitled " Sons of
Hiram" do commend the spirit manifested by the brothers of
northe~stern Montana in stimulating Masonic study amt increasing
social intercourse amortg Masons, as evidenced by the declaration
of purposes of the so-called "Sons of Hiram," but we believe that
such otganizations should be solely under the auspices of the lodges
and not as a separate body."
·
THE MISSION OF MASONRY ·
Grand Masters' messages, orations and resolutions all treat of
the "Mission of Masonry" from various angles and what it should
accomplish. We believe that all that has been said along this line
is condensed into the able and practical address of Brother Thomas
R. Mar&hall, e"-Vic;e-Presldent of the Uni1;ed St;ites, and for ~hat

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

78

reason quote the same in full to the exclusion of all other statements on this point.
e commend to those "modest violets," the politicians and
parties belonging to the Masonic Fraternity now running for office
the third paragraph of Bro. Marshall's address and have printed it
in heavy type for that reason.
'

"!'

New Jersey:
. Learning that Bro. Thomas R. Marshall was in town a resolut10~ w.as of'.fered appointing a committee of distinguished' Brethren
to mv1te him to come and address Grand Lodge.
·
Judge by past performances Grand Masters and Grand Lodges
are rather addict~d to Ii<?~ worship, and the frequency of references
to Brethren of high pohttcal standing suggest that it may be well
to hear wh.at <?ne of them said, it seems to be well worth the
space we give 1t.
. Brother Thomas R. Marshall (33°), Vice-President of the
Un!ted ?tates, was announced and introduced to the Grand Lodge by
M ..w .. Grand Master Henry S. McE!roy. Brother Marshall addresse<l the Grand Lodge as follows:
"Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge
of Kentucky:
"My .Brother who presented me to you was unfortunate in his
presentation. He presented me to you as the Vice-President of
the Unite~ ~tates. Outside of the doors of this Grand Lodge I am
thati, but ms1de I am but a man and a Mason. (Great appfause.)
I h.a d to be a man, of course, free born and of lawful age to
?ecome a Mason; an~ I became a Mason long before I became that
incubus on the American people, the Vice-President of the United
States. (Applause and laughter.) Thank God, the agony of that
awful office 1s almost over. (Laughter.) And after the 4th day of
next ¥arch I s~all be able to pass among you without anyone of
you either looking at me with pride or pointing to me with fear
(Applause.)
"I hesi!ated .abou~ coming into. this Grand Lodge, because I
have made 1t an mvanable rule, durmg periods of political contest
to never enter a Masonic Lodge. I am about as good a partisa~
as. you can well find anywhere; but that m!ln deserves the opprobrium of conte~pt of his fellowmen who will walk inside the portals _of a Masonic Lodge and endeavor to make partisanship a part
of his Masonry. (Great applause.) But I thought in view of the
fact that I am going out, or being put out I do ~ot know which
(l~ughter), the ~ain thing is to get out. (Laughter.) I thought I
m1g~t yenture, without t~e suspicion of there being anything political m its character, to rise for a moment or two and address my
brethren of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky.
.
. ''.I cannot address. you as. I w.ould without some allusion to
pohhcs, and that allusion con~1sts m the fact that while I believe
it to ~e the duty _of every free born American to investigate ·public
q!-'eshons, take his stand, to urge, advocate and to vote his principles, as I grow older and see more of those whom they call
lii:,'reat ll!en, the more satisfied I do become that the hopes unity
prosperity, glory and perpetuity of the American Republic doe~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

79

not rest upon the shoulders of political parties, but rather it abid~s
in the fine sense of brotherhood which gathers around the Masonic
altar.
h
·. h
I h
"I have been, as you know, in the seats of t e mtg ty. .
ave
·seen, in the last four years, all those whom the world has sat~ were
great men. I have probed their thoughts and touched with my
.fingers their emotions; and I come here and now to say to yott
that in my judgment there are no great men, except men who have
good purposes and kind hearts. (Great applause.)
"I come to· tell you, my Brethren, that each one of Y01;1 may
be as great a man as ever adorned the annals of human history.
Your names may not be written high on the scroll of your coun~ry,
but it can be written high upon the scroll that shall be s.ome time
unrolled, and some time the names upon that scr<?ll _will be the
names of those who shall hear the welcome pla~d1t, Well done,
thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast ~een ,faithful over a few
things; I shall make thee ruler of many thmgs. (Gre~t applause.)
"The trouble with civil government is this:. That 1t ~tarts and
ends with the French model, Liberty, Fraternity, Equality. That
is what ails civil government. That is why there is always stress
and strife and tumult unending in the affa.i rs of me~ . . If they would
reverse it as we reverse it in the Masomc Order, if Equality were
the first ~equirement of civil government, and then Fratermty, we .
need not bother about our liberties. (Applaus~.) So when I s~y
to you I hope for my country from the Masonic O_rder, I mean 1t.
I mean that more and more, · as the men of America shall gather
around the altars of Mason~y and s~all understai;id that t~e first
requirement of brotherhood 1s Equality, not eguahty of ~rams nor
education nor mere station in life, but equality of sentiment and
hope and desire for the good· of the -world, more sur~lY. shall we
lead on in the world's fight. (Grea~ applause.) ;\nd 1t 1s onl:y ~s
we come thus, recognizing . our equa\tty, our equahty of respons1~tl­
ity to God and our equality of. duty to our _fellowman, our equality
in the United States for service and sacrifice, my B_rethre?, that
we rise to the high height of a Freemason, an!1 the ):i!gh het$ht of
a Freemason is the supreme test of an American citizen. (Great
applause.)
"We are living in a new age. You know it. I know it. The
chapter in the rights of the book of man has been closed, and closed
·forever and a new book has been opened up. It is the book which
speaks 'the duty of humankind, not what I myself may know or
what I myself may have. And in this Grand Lod,ge, I hope you
-are opening up a new book, and that you are adopting a new character-God and my duty. (Great applause.)
"And so, Brethren, I thank you for this opportunity to have
.
appeared before you, to bring fraternal ~reetings from the State of
Indiana to the State of old Kentucky. (Applause.) And to assure
you that while there is now more water between us than there used
to be (laughter), m;vertheless, there is the same fraternal handclasp from Indiana tor Kentucky that there always was. (Great
applause.) I beg of you that while, in t~e active affairs of life, you
are all· partisans as. yW should be partisans, yet when you come
within these sacred precincts, let us have no one here save {Oen
who worship God, men who believe !n the ~rotherhood . of Humankind men whose highest pleasure ~s service and sacrifice for all
who' may happen to need you. I thank you." (Great applause.)

REPORT ON co..RESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

80

MASONIC EDUCATION
The proposition of educating the membership of the Fraternity
throughout the various Jurisdictions still continues to be a problem.
A number of States are following the program outlined by the
Masonic Service Association while others are working along ideas
of their own.
The following replies to a questionnaire sent to the various
Grand Secretaries show the extent of the activities along this line:
Arizona: Active membership in Masonic Service Association
of the United States.
. Floridl!-: V:f e ~ave a Committee on Work who hold four schools
of mstructio,n 1!1 different. parts of the. State each year, besides a·
number of district conventions and special meetings.
Idaho: The way has been cleared for a practical ·organization
at the next ·meeting of Grand Lodge.
Louisiana:

At the last Grand Lodge Communication

81

British Columbia: Lectures and addresses are given to our
Lodges on subjects of Masonic interest.
Manitoba: Forming Study Clubs in as many Lodges. as possible, -with the benefit of a small circulating library.
Nova Scotia: Several paJJers read and distributed under the
auspices of the Nova Scotia Lodge of Research.
Prince Edward Island: Explanatory lectures are given by competent Masons in the several lodges on Symbolism of the work, and
other Masonic subjects.
·
Saskatchewan: The formation of Study .Clubs has been urged
upon all lodges by the Grand Master at the District Meetings and by
the D. D. G. M.'s on their official visits to the Lodges.
Puerto Rico: It was appointed a Committee to instruct all the
brethren in Masonic purpose, specially those concerning symbols,
legends, allegories and so forth. This Committee must visit every
Lodge o.f the Jurisdiction one or two times a year.

we

-appointe~ a Committee on E?ucation, who so far have not effected

NEGROES ,
The position of the Negro in Masonry is a unique one. It
does not appear that it will ever be possible that American Jurisdictions will admit them fellowship along the same lines as English
or French Masonry. It does, however,. afford a topic of discussion
for our Southern brethren.

Maryland: Our Lodges are giving periodical lectures during
the year which are well attended.
.

Alabama:
Sotne years ago Mississippi severed relations with New Jersey
·because it had a Lodge on its roll with negro members. No other
·Grand Lodge followed Mississippi's lead. Grand Master Benoist
thought that on account of the lapse of time and "that all other
Jtrrisdictrons have remained in communication" with New Jersey,
MississipJ>i «might very well remove the restriction." The Grand
Master showed evident desire to be out of the impasse into which
Mississippi had placed herself, but the Committee on Jurisprudence
recommended that this part of the Grand Master's address "be not
adopted at this lime." The good common sense of Brother Lawrence H . Lee, then our Grand Master, saved Alabama from getting
mixed up in this thing.

or submitted any plan, nor will they be able to do so until the next
G~an~ Lodge ~ession i!J February. However, our Grand Lecturers and
District Deputies are mstr~cted tha.t it is a part of their duty to educa~e the brethren upon the Imes outlined by the Masonic Service Association.
Maine: A Committee to arrange lectures in addition to the
regular Schools of Instruction.

Nebraska: This matter is in the hands of Past Grand Master
B. Fradenburg, who expects to work on educational lines
w1t.h the ·M asonic ?ervice. Asso~i~tion, arranging for lectures, etc.
This, of course, will be m addition to our system of instructing
Lodge by the Grand Custodian and his twenty assistants.
J~seph

~evada: We have a fund that loans to deserving Students without interest.
Organization of Study Clubs with courses of study or addresses in
Lodge~ under . "Good of. t~e C_raft," or both. Lodges .~re following -out
Masonic Service Association ideas, also.

. New Mexico: We are members of the Masonic Service Association ~efore an~ our present Grand Master is very much interested in
Masonic Ed.ucat10n. We have purchased a moving picture equipment
the films be1.ng supplied by the above association, ·have been presented
to large audiences of Master Masons who travel long distances in order
to see same and hear the accompanying lecture.
. Tennessee: State ~rganized very thoroughly, and the organization seems to be working very well.
WashingtoD:: We have .establishe? a standing committee ·of
three on Masonic Research and Education and have appropriated
$1,500.00 for their use in promoting its purp~ses.

British Colwnbia:
This idea of a consecrated fraternal relatio,nship is most beautiful and touching, but at the moment we cannot call to mind a
single Grand Master in the United States who has displayed the
same (or any) desire to 'establish a fraternal relationship with the
colored Brother, who suffered and sacrificed in the common cause,
and whose claim to Masonic regularity is infinitely superior to
that Of the French.
The rev.iewer copied from our report a · paragraph relative to
the tecognition of French Masonry, and apparently thinks our
-views on the subject are narrow, for he says:

83

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"In Masonry, as in churches, this war may bring us to put
the spirit above the letter of the law. Catholics and Protestants
have put aside their differences to minister to the needs of men in
service or in death. Lov is the fulfilling of the law."
Sou·nds very pretty, doesn't it? Still, although negroes and
whites fought side by side, and men from legitimate Lodges stood
in the trenches with men from clandestine lodges, we have yet to
learn of any Grand Lodge in the United States offering recognition
to negro Masons, nor, so far as we have heard, have the regular
Masons of Ohio, for instance, manifested an inclination to fraternize with the clandestine lodges of that State.
Evidently in the United States sauce for the goose is not
sauce for the gander.

mony which would be or ever had been known as the Past Grand
Master's degree.
Replies were received from forty-six of the Grand Lodges, and
of that number only three, besides Florida, were using any such
ceremony, and a great majority reported that such a ceremony
had never been in use in that State.
Those reporting that they do not now use or know of any
ceremony were Arkansas Alabama, Arizona, California, Connecticut Colorado District or' Columbia, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indian~ Iowa, Kentucky, Kansas,' Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts,
Ma;yland, Michigan, Minnesota, M!ssissippi, Missouri, Nevada,
Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Mexico, ;North Dakota, Oklahoma,
Ohio, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas,
Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Washington,
Wiscon~in and Wyoming.
Many of the Grand Secretaries reported that they have a
Past Grand Masters' Association which always meets at the time
of the Grand Lodge communication, and generally discuss the
matters of Jurisprudence and all inter-jurisdictional relations and
laws of other Grand Lodges. Many of the States have no organization of this kind.
The Grand Secretary of Arkansas writes that they have no
Past Grand Master's degree or anything of the kind, and that his
observation extends over a period of fifty years.
In Pennsylvania, they report that "Our Grand Master is merely
installed Grand Master. in the presence of Past Grand Masters

82

Georgia:
Brother W. A. DeWolf-Smith, the efficient and most capable
Grand Secretary, brings another one of his interesting, instructive
and profitable reviews.
We have learned to understand him better as we have read
his r.eviews; i.f we knew him just a little better, we would suggest
to him that 1t would be such a happy report he would write if
he would a wee bit more dip his pen in the golden ink of love 'instead of sometimes letting it dip into the leaden fluid of caustic
criticism. Our good Brother does not know what it means to
_people of the South to have negroes spoken of as "colored
Brothers."

00~

PAST MASTER'S DEGREE
While a number of States have recognized the degree of Past
Master, we can see no objection to a "Past Grand Master's Degree,"
provided the members eligible to the same want it. As Past Grand
Masters usually compose the Committees of the ·various Grand
Lodges, it would appear that they have sufficient opportunity for
association in that manner rather than by a separate degree.
Florida:
For a number of years we have had in Florida, a little ceremony wnich is conferred upon the Grand Master elect, the regular
installation ceremony being interrupted and the officer elect being
taken to a proper. place where the Past Grand Masters present
would confer upon him the "Secrets of the Chair" and were supposed to give him certain instruction in the modes of recognition
by which he could make himself known as a Past Grand Master.
Not having any regular ritual for this ceremony, and owing to
the death of two or three of our Senior Past Grands who generally
officiated in the conferring of the degree, it has somewhat fallen
into disuse.
Being informed that such a ceremony was almost entirely unknown among the American Grand Lodges, a communication was
addressed to the Grand Secretary of each Grand Jurisdiction in the
United States asking if they. had in their Grand Lodge any cere-

-

.

In nearly all of the States, they report that at one time they
did have a Past Master's degree, but that they abandoned that
many years ago, but no Past Grand Master's degree.
In Kansas, t hey report that they abandoned the Past Grand
Master's degree or ceremony, but that they have a Past Master's
degree which is conferred upon Masters of Lodges at the time of
their installation and that a very impressive ceremony is carried
out for which their Grand Lecturer has prepared a ritual.
From Massachusetts, the oldest Grand Jurisdiction in the
United States, they report that they have no Past Grand Master's
degree and never have had.
From Maryland, the Grand Master reports that they have no
Past Grand Master's degree or ceremony, and that no one seems
to have any recollection that there ever was one. He reminds us
that the late Grand Master, Brother T . J. Shy.rock, served for more
than twenty-five years as Grand Master and if there ever was such
a degree it passed into disuse . .
The Grand Secretary of Nevada tells us that they have no
Past Grand Master's degree, but the Lodges use the Past Grand
Master's degree in their installation ceremony.
South Carolina:
Referring to the Past Master's degree he (P. G. M. of Illinois)
says, "The subject is passed by this writer for the reason that he
· does not consider it worth discussion." When we consider that
this degree is conferred in fifty English-speaking Grand Jurisdictions and not recognized in only t wenty, we think it is worth dis-

84

REPORT ON ,CORRESPONDBNCE

cussing with Brethren like Brothers Martin and Scott, of Illinois,
who showe~ so little familiarity with the "subject." We might be
able t~ en.lighten them, and are we not bou~d to "dispense true
Masonic ltght and knowledge to our less informed Brethren."
What! Brother Scott even went so far as to say that the Past
M.aster's de~ree ~ad been abolished in most Jurisdictions. He admitted to this wnter personally that he spoke without knowledge
so we must forgive him.
'
PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
The following summary from the proceedings of the Grand
Lodge of Georgia outlines the existing law in each State on this
point. It is valuable as a matter of reference:
In order that Georgia Masons may gather at a glance the
developments in the agitation of physical qualific;ations, below will
be found a summary ·of the rules and regulations of the several
Grand Jurisdictions of the United States:
Alabama:
The sentiment of the Grand Lodge is most liberal. In fact,
recent legislation has about obliterated all lines on this question.
Arkansas:
Applicants must be able to take steps, give signs and conform
to the ordinary requirements for degrees; must have free use of
all limbs and members.
•
Arillona:
No modification.
California:
Worshipful Master and Lodge vested with discretion to determine in each individual case whether or not the applicant can conform substantially to the requirements . of the various degrees.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

85

Georgia:
Ancient Customs.
Idaho:
The Grand Lodge stands for the perfect ycmth.
a few years ago to make the law less drasti:c failed. ,

An attempt

Illinois:
At the 1919 meeting of Grand Lodge .an . amendment wa.s
adopted providing that in the case of an ~~p!Jcat10n from a candidate possessing a maim or defect, on pehhOJl ~f. five membars of
the Lodge, the Secretary shall transmit the petition to the. Gran.cl
Master for his decision. Should the Grand. Ma~ter. upo~ ut".eshgation deem it advisable so to do, ije may m his d1scl'et1<1Jn issue
a dispensation permitting the lodge to proeeed to ballot on the
petition.
Indiana:.
While th~ law pTohibits the in~tia~ion of one ;vhose P.hyskal
di.sability . is suclil as to prevent his literal compl~ance with the
ceremonies of the order, the Grand Master mav, with the ~onsent
of the Committee on Jurisprudence, allow Lodges to receive. and
ballot, on peti'tions for membership of those w~o can by the aid <;>f
artificial a;pp)ianus conform to the ceremomes or the 01'der 111
every particular.
Iowa:
The substitution of artificial limbs for portions of t)le natural
person should not be a bar to the .admission of a cand1~~te, pro~
vided such limbs are under the practical control of the petitioner.
Kansas:
Strict adherence to the Ancient Constitutions.
Kentucky:
No modification.

Colorado:
No modification.

Louisiana:
The applicant must be in such physic11l condition as to give
all of the signs and means of recognition.

Connecticut:
No modification.

Maine:
Information not available.

Delaware:
No modification.
District of Columbia:
Applicant must conform to forms with his own natural limbs.
Florida:
A candidate must be physically capable of conforming literally .
to what the several degrees require of him, but a slight deformity
will not bar the initiation of a candidate otherwise worthy. The
subordinate Lodge decides as to the deformity being such as to
disqualify under this rule.

Maryland:
No modification.
Massachusetts:
An applicant shall be able to comply. with the requiref!lents
of the ritual and support himself and family. In each p~rticular
case. the Master of the Lodge shall rule. This Grand Lodge voted
in 1908 that a blind man may not receive the degrees.
Michigan:
The questio1'1 is left to the judgment of the. const!tuent Lodges.
A liberal constJTuction is given, and if an apphcant 1s sound men-

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

tally and morally, considerable I
·
physical qualifications.
eeway ts granted in the line of
Minnesota:
Th .
.
e. Ph;ysical requirements were changed at the 1920
1
communication to permit the recepf1
f
. .
annua
~hv:~e\yanh artificial lifmb or part unde~ ~he ~on~rJle~inhe ~~f:io~~~
e can con orm to the reqmrements.
Mississippi:
Left to the direction of the subordinate Lodge.
Missouri:
A candidate who can by .aid of artificial appliances conf
to
the necessary ceremonies is physically qualified.
orm
Montana :
f
d ·
A candidate for the Entered A
physic.aVy, s weir ~~ intelle~t)l.ally, Pf;eJ1e~~lve eff:<le i~~~l~t bait a;~:
~i~e;tta s o Masonic recognition, and this the Lodge may deter-

f

Nebraska:
f9201 modi~cation, but report upon the subject will be made at
e
meeting of the Grand Lodge.
Nevada:
Ancient strictness .modified.
New Hampshire:
th

.

A cadrid\date who has artificial appliances. enabling him to be
~hs;~lc~\~y. m the arts and mysteries of Masonry, is eligible,
New Jersey:

reTe~~edat~ th~ G~~~d ~~i!~~~f~r Phl:sd~~l~o~~ bef~~·~s~~~lce~~~~'.

is
New Mexico:
No modification.

New York:
Ancient rigidity modified.
North Carolina:

~ncient
. Constitution.s.. There is, however, an ;mendment n
1

~=~~ :sg'b:'~~:b~dk:~ ~~~gl; ~i~~ ~gpticants

wro can bf art'ificl:l
m.ent, which will be heard at the Ja~tfa"rese1r . aw. This ~m~nd­
w1ll, to all appearances, be ' adopted.
Y, 921, commun1cahon,
North Dakota:
If the physical disability of an
r
f
not amount aided b
d'
Y: aI?p icant or the degrees does
'
Y or mary art1fic1al means t
· b·1·
meet the requirements and honest!
. • o an ma 1 1ty to
sistence, it shall constitute no hind!ar:coe atcoquh~r.e. t~ti; 1!1eans of sub1s m1 iatton.

87

Ohio:
Ancient ConstitutiC!ns.
Oklahoma:
The sentiment tends to a more liberal construction of edicts
and landmarks and if the applicant can substantially fill the requirements necessary in the tal<ing of the degrees, the Lodge is permitted to receive the petition.
Oregon:
If applicants can comply with the ritual as regards steps, signs
and grips, they are not barred by reason of other disabilities.
Pennsylvania:
A petitioner must be sound in all his members.
Rhode Island:
If the petitioner is physically defective by reason of deformity
or being maimed and he is still able honestly to acquire the means
of subsistence, eligibility shall be determined by the Lodge to
which he has applied, and if determined favorably to the petitioner,
he shall be eligible to receive the degrees of Freemasonry when the
action of the Lodge has been approved by the Grand · Master in
writing.
South Carolina:
Ancient Constitutions.
South Dakota:
While the former requirements are in vogue, there is every
belief that .when the matter comes up at the next annual communication of Grand Lodge in the revision of the by-laws, the .Grand
Lodge will take the most liberal views consistent with the genius
of Masonry; probably going so far as to hold eligible for the degree one who may have suffered loss of members of the body, compensated by appliances under his practical control which enables
him to comply substantially with the requirements in conforming
to the ceremonies of the degrees.
Tennessee:
The question of physical qualification is left to the subordinate
Lodges.
Texas:
The decision in cases of physical defects is left entirely to the
Grand Master.
Utah:
Applicants must · possess physical ability to earn a livelihood
and to conform substantially to the forms. and ceremonies of Masonry and be instructed in its mysteries. The · membership of the
Grand Lodge is inclined toward a liberal cc:i'nstruction of such
requirements.
Vermont:
The observance of a broad and liberal interpretation of the

88

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE .

law that physical ability to
r 1"h
'
stantially to the form
darn a ive. 1 ood, and to conform substructed in its mysteriess lsn allcethremt ~m.1es ~f . dMasonry and be in.
a 1s reqmre . .
Virginia:
Ancient Constitutions.
Washington;
While the law provides th t L d
didate's physical qualifications a h. oh ges hi:i;.st determ_ine the canthat will render him inca ab! '
ic pro .1 it ?ny maim or defect
degrees respectively requfre 0~
co~hormi~g literally to what the
be much more liberal in the
im,
ere is a strong tendency to
are acting in spirit at least in 1h!tter than. before and the Lodges
to relieve the rigidity with h . hmtoh~y, with the general tendency
rega.rded.
w ic
is matter has formerly been

h;£

West Virginia;
Ancient requirements.
Wisconsin:
Confo.rmity with ancient landmarks.
Wyoming:
Ancient Constitutions.

We. believe that there is ·entirely too much white paper and ink
wast~d ;" some of. the published Proceedings of Grand Lodges If
. some o the details were omitted or condensed and th
.
allowed to the c
·
t
C
•
e space
M
. d
omm1t ee on : orrespondence, reprints of historical
asomc ocuments or essays on Masonic History in.e luded it woul
add to ~he value of the publication. Then it should be pu~ into th~
possession of the membership generally.
the .~:t:r~xar;t.e of Ne.w York in publishing in their . Proceeding
o
~so~ry m that State is a fine example of what can
b e d one al ong this lme.
District of Columbia:
one. T1~ rei~~~t on ~rreva:nces and appeals is a long one and a good
1
Craft. Itgis ah~ ~y~t~mhartd rt;peo:t~my t.~ be uhYled back at the
0
sear.ch a man's character befor
w.n e. . n 1 e a church, we
·unworthy even though he be : ~bclptm~, hmJ :ind we expel an
contrite heart. But we make mist:kiever an is bow~d with a
?qd material, and the enemy will hold e~ now bnl t~en m getting
1cal Masons. So we need to be
f
~ur k~ mistakes as typwhy we expel.
care .u m ta mg, and in telling

f

*

*

*

*

89

· ber of cases. It is the best proof of Masonry being in good hands,
and it wisely omits parts which our enemy might use against us.
A church will accept any man who comes with a contrite h.eart
and petitions for membership. M.asonry decides that man is a .
creature of habit, and is likely to repe'at his old habits, and it sends
a committee to ascertain what he has done. And, moreover, if he ·
proves a fake, Masonry expels him.
Kansas:
A motion was made and adopted that beginning with the Annual Communication of 1920 (Maryland) , the names of the members
shDuld be published ev:ery five years thereafter. We "rise" to ask
a que~tion simply as a matter of information and that is, of what
bene.fit is such a list w:hen we c.onsider the vast changes in membership every twelve months. Placing the names of all members
op a printed record of this kind which is distributed in practically
all quarters of the globe is a dangerous practice.
Kentucky:
The proceedings of the various Grand Lodges offer but little
for the reviewer's commcmt. There is in them a sameness that
reaches the low level of legislation, which is rather to .be commended. Like all institutions of a democratic character, there has
in the past ·been too much and too frequent change in the laws of
the Order. The Masonic legislator of the past .obviousl3' was neither a Me.de nor a Persian.

PROCEEDINGS OF GRAND LODGES

*

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

*

.

Several amendments to by-laws were adopted after d"
•
and ·report. The rep t ·
·
1scuss10n
or on grievances and appeals takes in a num-

New' York:
We know of no better way for arousing an intelligent interest
among the memhers of our Lodges than a careful readin~ and discussion of the volume of Proceedings. "To be read in all the
Lodges~' should be more than a sy.mbolic suggestion; it ought to be
insisted. upon as a practical direction. There are, no doubt, many,
portions which are mere matters of record, and maiY be ·omitted.
The vital matters, however, are deserving of careful consideration,
and time shoul.d be found for their discussion in the Lodges.
A knowledge. of what our own Grand Lodge is doing; its
record of ·achievement for the year, the progress of the various
undertakings, and the plans for the future, would seem to be
the best start for an intelligent comprehension of Freemasonry.
Discussion will clarify that knowledge. Collateral reading and
talks by competent craftsmen will ope.n avenues to study and res.earch covering all that may be desired.
Particuw attention is. invited to the Report on Foreign Correspondence, because . here are recorded significant achiev:ements,
plans, thoughts and doings noted in the Proceedings of Grand
Lodges which stand in fraternal relations with our own Grand
Lodge. The reader is given an opportunity ·to watch the course
of the Masonic str·ea.m, to note thci rocks and sandy shoils of
danger, to gather courage from the splendid leadership 0 £ the
men a.t th.e helm on the stately vessels sailing side by side, to
become inspired with new visions of the purposes to be achieved,
and to feel that he is part of a noble brotherhood of God-fearing,
right~minded men seeking to be of service to their fellows and
keeping their eyes steadfastly fixed upon the lodestar which points

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

the way to the harbor of the city where love and peace reign
forever.
We recommend to the Lodges a thoughtful study of the book
of Procee.d ings of this Grartd Lodge. It may well be made the
text-book for the instruction of all the members of the Craft. The
many new Brethren will be given thereby the best sort of start
in their Masonic education. We shall he building up a fraternity
which knows itself, and is able to realize its objects in a true
. Masonic spirit. If the -Report on Foreign Correspondence helps
to broaden the view and ·reinforce essentials, inspiring the reader
to greater love of his Maker, to more steadfast loyalty to his
country, and to a more sympathetic appreciation of the Masonic
spirit at work in the Grand Lodges of the British Empire and other
countries as well as in the United States, it will have served its ·
purpose.
North · Dakota:
We have continued to wonder why many Jurisdictions continued the practice of publishing annually the roster of constituent
Lodges. Idaho's volume of proceedings is made up of one third
proceedings, a second third roster. and the remainder correspondence review. To our way of thinking the third devoted to roster
is dead loss in money and a woeful waste of book paper.
Nov?. Scotia: .
Now, on the next page, we read : "Proceedings of the M . W.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nevada during its 55th year. 1919,
to he read in all Lodges." Well, here's hoping they are. But in
our Jurisdiction, although a resolution was passed, and pas'sed
unanimously, that the Landmarks should be read once a year in
every one of our constituent Lodges, is it done? Rather not, we
would say. But then the Brethren may he more obedient in
Nevada. May we hope so. but then we remember an old Scotchman who used to say, "I h'ae me clouts."
·
Texas:
The only criticism we could make of the Proceedings of the
Grand Lodge of South Australia is. that there is too much oratory,
interspersed with outbursts of applause.
When the politician (sometimes called "Statesman"), in fiery
eloquence shows how he and his party will save the country, if
only ele.cted to office, and how his opponent and the opposition .
party will forever destroy th e country, if placed in power, it is all
right to encourage him with applause. But, applause in the Grand
Lodge, or in any Ma sonic meeting or assembly, is entirely out of
place.
Maryland:
Referring to a report from the Committee cin Grievances, bein¥,
followed by a very cheery melody, "Honey, I Wants You Now '
the correspondent says : "This seems rather strange to us who
leave th·e lighter side of harmony to the hour when Brethren' cease
labor and go to refreshment." It was really a decided relief to us
all t o turn from the lengthy legal discussion which had tax ed our
patience to hear the lighter strains of that comic song. But you
know, we are different.
,';1 .,.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

91

PROHIBITION
The Eighteenth Amendment, now in force, makes any discussion or comments on this heading a waste of time. We now
have only memories:
District of Columbia:
One of the decisions affords a study for prohibitionist~. The
Grand Master was obliged to. ~uspend ~ W~rden for enten.ng the
Lodge in an intoxicated condition. It 1s evident that drastic prohibition, which has deprived the worthy, has no.t reached the un-f
worthy. Still, we are sorry the report has printed so much o
this case. The Grand Master suspended a Master for the same
reason. His prompt action will, beyond a doubt, have a salutary
effect.
·Georgia:
Brother Reverend Henry Branch (Marylai:id) contribute~ one
if his usually splendid, snappy and tc:rse r.ev1ews., There 1s no
schismatic theology, but interesting Vl~WS . u~tere~tmgly told. In
fact our beloved Brother. throws off his mm1sten.a l m.antle, when
he describes the visit of the Grand Master of Cahforma to Hon~­
lulu "as fairly intoxicating." In these day~, when that mos~ estimable Mason and Reviewer, Most Worshipfu\ Brother Baird of
the District of Columbia, is telli~g . ~ow the nahol). has taken away
state rights in the nati9nal_ proh1.bit1? n !~w, we did not know that
any visit could be ''fairly mtox1catmg.
If our good Maryland
·Brother were taken seriously, there would be as great an exodus
to the Hawaiian Islands 'as there is to Cuba.
Idaho:
It took an even thirty pages of the G.ran~ Master's address ~o
tell the story of t he trip to the Peace Jubilee .1~ London. But this
description came the nearest to a personal v1s1t that we have. yet
met. The Grand Master has the ability to make o th ~rs see thmgs
over there as he saw them ; besides, he seems to have had a good
side partner. The main difference between Ire~and and England
seems to be that in the former, Thirs~ Empo.nums are open all
day long, while in England they are domg busi!1ess only at stated
periods. We expect to spend our latt er days m Ireland.
Montana:
We are inclined to doubt somc:what the "d_oom" of John Barleycorn ; either he, or his ghost still ,~ talks ami,?st u~ : :ve ma:f be
a " saloonless nation" but are we a boozeless nation, ~ethmks
there is quite a great deal of "moon~hine" yet around to light tne
way of our erring meanderings in this vale of tears; personally we
are really. "dry" and have a strong desire to be "wet"; " dry" does
not appeal to us., except, pe:haps, as humor; we rather feel that
the verdict was directed agamst saloons; the1~ abuse a nd !J-Ot use,
caused the judgment to fall like the gen~le ram upon the Just and
the unjust· we st ill hanker for the foaming glass of cool beer and
occasiona!iy for t he "bubbles" that rose from tl~e stem . of the
glass and hast en ed upward and onward to be sipped with the
nectar contained in the receptacle; forgotten are the . headaches

93

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

and la~situde of. the moroi.ng after; naught but the glories of the
m~mones are . with us; but enough, or we shall forsake the sunshme .tbat -smiles on us as we wr.ite this, and in mid-day seek to
bask m the mellowness of a "moonshine."

or religions nature. The committee could find nothing in their
constitution bearing on the subject, but in one of the ''Charges of
a Freemason" tti-e following was discovered:
"- . . . 'Therefore no private piques or quarrels must be
brought within ttie door of the Lodge, far less any quarrels about
religion or nations or state policy-we being only as Mason.s of
the universal religion before mentioned. We are als? of all natl?~s,
tongues, kind·reds and languages, and resolved agamst all pobtlcs
as what never yet conduced to the welfare of the Lodge nor ever

92

0

Kentucky:
. One other quotation we must make, a quotation sweetly remimscent of o.ther days:
We are not ,going to quarrel about that drinking business.
Our old granadad came from Virginia. In fact our father and
mother both came from \'.irginia, one of them fro~ Louisa County,
. .and .the other from Buckmgham County. We take a ·nip now and
.then when our wife will let us; but, for the good of the ofher fellows, we are for nation-wide prohibition.
Where do you get it "now and then," Brother Clarke.? .
We don't, B~ot~er Egglesto_n., We slipped on our tense . . Probably Vl'.e w~re ~hmkmg rather v1v1dly of what had been, so vividly
as to 1magme 1t as present. Or, we may dodge around •by saying
we u-sed our verb in the "historic present," to indicate a past event.

*

*

*

*

*

*

PUBLIC QUESTIONS
Masonry, as an organization, is prevented from taking sides on
any question of religion or politics, but it certainly seems that we
should be permitted to make our Lodge rooms open forums for
the purpose of enlightenin.g the membership on questions that are
~ital to us as Citizens and as Masons. The time is rapidly approachmg when Masonry must do something to justify its continued existence, and ~e believe that one of . the means toward accomplishing
that end will be to educate the members along practieal lines. Let's
mnash the Sacred Calf (.w perhaps it's now Bull) of Precedent and
do some thing practical for our Brethren.
Alabama:
Ptib'lic schoo1s were declared to be the place where our children "may gain the broadest possible conception of free and untrammeled conscience, independent thought and love of · country"
Mas?nil were "!,ecla.re~ to ~e "faithful and loyal supporters of the
pubh.c schools.
The Smith-Towner bill, now before Congress,
:vas md~rsed an,d the ~epresentatives from Iowa urged to support
1t.. In view of the strictly non-partisan character of this bill this
aetlon is not subject to the criticism of '.'dabbling in politics,:' but
Masons. should a.lwa~s be on guard at this point. There are those
who thm:k much .more. o~ their politics than they do of either their
J.4asonry .or their rehg10n and who would cheerfu11y prostitute
either their Lodge or their church to political ends.
British Columbia:
The. Grand Lodge of Manit.oba is nothing if not up-to-date,
and .dunn~ the year t~e ~?mm1ttee .on Jurisprudence had under
·cons1derat10n. the adv1sab1hty. or expediency of permitting the
Lodges to discuss, for educational purposes, questions of a social

will."

·

The committee .was of the opinion that while the Charge referred to dealt with behaviour "after the Lodge is over," tbe restriction ·applies with even more force to behaviour in .open Lo?ge.
Also there i>S in the Charge to the Entered Apprentice, as gwen
in Manitoba 'an exhortation to the candidate to prove his obed-ience "lily ab~taining from · every topic of religious or political discusMon."
But here the legal mind · came in, and it was discovered that
the Ge~eral Charge above referred to did not prohibit friendly
discussions on political or religious topics, but only "quar~els about
rd.igion, ete.," while the Charge to the Entered Apprentice ~tat~s
the case so ·emphatically only because the Entered Apprentice 1s
inexperienced and unlearned: and that "read in the light of traditional Charges," and as "applied to the more experienced Brother
the expre&sion 'religious or political discussion' relates to 'quarrelsome' or contentious discussion."

Connecticut:
He loses sight of our main point, viz., that our well known
tene.ts make such resolutions superfluous. Further, if we as an
orpnization take up the cudgel in favor of all deserving objects,
we shall have little time for other l;msiness. Again, it will be only
a shert step to r·eligious and political discussions. No-we had
better leave such thmgs to individual action, and we need have no
fear of tbe result, even though there may be isolated instances of
failure in duty. We cannot refrain from adding that, so far as
the possibility of "flocking by himself" is concerned, such con. tingency has ·never caused loss of a moment's sleep to your reporter. While w~ continue !n the rep?rtorial field, we shall pull
our little pound m deprecating hysteria.
England:
'
'Fbe ·Grand Lodge of England has held strictly aloof throughout its history, which dates from 1717, from participation in public
or 1political affairs, either national or international, considering
itseM preolud-ed from taking an~ share in discussions on state
policy. While thus standing aside from party divisions, it has
always inc.ulcated patriotism .in the citizen, and loyalty in the
individual.
Georgia:
For those who believe that Freemasonry is a self-satisfied
Order, resting on the glory of a past, content to let a new world
fight out its own salvation, we may draw onfy words of reproach.
But to those who remember the Boston Tea Party, and the lave
and blood given for the saqctifying of this country, to those who
hold 'fha't 'Freemasonry is "a progressive science," we declare the
hour of destiny has come for the beloved Craft .•

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
94

95

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

We hasten here and now, and for all time, to declare with all
the steadfastness of our mind and soul that we stand squarely on
the Landmarks, which our Grand Lodge says no man can change;
but we do contend that Freemasonry, resting on these same Landmarks, without changing one Egglestonian jot or tittle, can meet
and aid in conquering a situation which needs ~he thoughts, prayers
and actions of America,n Masons.
The education that is being urged for American Masons is as
American Masonic education, having as its threefold purpose the
conservation of the republic, the co-operation of pure citizenship
and the Americanization of the people. Conse,rve, co-operate and
Americanize is the call to our 2,000,000 Masons-American Masons
-who can carry on to fulfillment our highest principle and ideal.
It is thoroughly proper, it is highly Masonic that we stand for
and fight for ths highest form of government; that we seek to preserve the principles for which our forefathers fought and died;
that we urge and secure one people, one nation and one flag; that
we "Americanize."
Idaho:
Masonry has much more of interest in the future than is found
either in the present or in the past. What _the fraternity has done
and is doing is of course full of interest, but when we look to its
future, when we see its possibilities for becoming the greatest,
the mightiest of all world powers, then it becomes positively inspiring.
What Masonry has done and is doing is perhaps to ;i:e extent disappointing. Many Brethren throughout the land feel that
the Fraternity has not risen to its greatest opportunities; in fact,
there is a feeling among some of its most devoted members that
we are to some extent standing still and resting too much on the
past history of our ancient order. The great question naturally
arises among our profound thinkers as to what Masonry can do to
awaken from that lethargic condition into which it has occasionally
drifted.
Masonic education is the keynote of today and the bringing
of this subject into right relations so as to make it a living force
is occuping the attention of many Grand Lodges at this time.
Idaho must not lag in the. great w<;irk before us.
Kansas:
Reference is made to the public schools and he directs the ·
Brethren to give their support to them. It would rather seem that
a recommendation of this kind in a Grand Lodge of Masons is not
in order as Masons should, as good citizens, look to the upbuilding
of our educational institutions without being subjected to advice
through the Masonic Fraternity.

*

*

*

*

*

*

M.'. w:. Brother Block, on behalf of the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented a preamble and resolution endorsing what is
known as the Smith-Downer bill now pending in the United States
Legislature. This bill provides for a Department of Education and
without doubt is deserving of the most hearty support of every
true, red-blooded American, but why a Grand Lodge of Masons
should "stick their finger in the pie" as such, we cannot under-

stand. No man can be a good Mas?!1 in this country ~nd a resident thereof without being a loyal citizen and true to his country.
Manitoba:
There is a general re-examination of what constitutes. "Top_ics
of Political Discussion" forbidden in Lodges. A ~ew on~ntatlon
in politics is in progress. Old partr lines are being obliterated.
New issues are in process of for~atlon. T~e war gave us a new
perspective of partisan controvets1es. Politically, many of us are
foot-loose.
·
:
·
At the same time we have a new appreciation of the influence
on the welfare of the nation of the school, the press, the theater,
and the social habits of the people. It is suspecte~ that the mass
of immigration from Central Europe may be hav~ng more effect
upon the people of this country than we are having ~pon them.
That English should be the language of our schools .1s after all
more important to our well-being than the ~ate ,of the import d~ty
on binders. The extraordinary wave of feeling in f~vor of pro.h1b1tion of the liquor traffic reflects the struggle to ltft tl~e nat10nal
life to a higher plane even at the cost of personal sacrifice.
If our cherished institutions are threatened by Socialism, call
it what you may, we cannot wait f.or. politicians to discov~r. a remedy. If liquor, drugs or other evil influence .are underminmg th.e
health, happiness and prosperity of any sect10n. of the people, if
living conditions of any citizens are such a~ to hinder normal. ~am­
ily life, or destroy efficiency or encourage d1seas~-these cond1t1ons
form our business and call loudly for our attention.
A Lodge which has within its membership those. who c:in
make a useful contribution to the solution of these vital social
problems, is missing a great opportunity if it does not employ the
talents of these Brethren to the common good.
Mississippi:
Whereas The Public School System, the bedrock of the Republic, is a ~atter. of vital concern to the Nation, as well as the
State and community; and
Whereas The Parochial School idea, in contradiction to that
of the publi~ school, is undemo~ratic and makes. for a separation
along sectarian lines, of the ch~ldren of the Nation, who are the
future guardians of the Republic; and
Whereas There are subtle influences at work throughout the
nation father'ed by those opposed t<? the theory. of. Democracy, the
principle on which our great Amer.1can R~publtc 1s founded,. seekmg to render impotent our splendid pubhc school system, 1f not
to destroy it altogi;ther; and
.
Whereas There is a certain bill, now pending in the Congress
of the United States, known as the "Smith-Towner Bill,:' the .pur·
12ose of which is to pr?vide, for a. Depart1!1ent of E?ucatton with a
Secretary in the Presidents Cabine.t at 1t.s head, . in order ~~ coordinate and administer more efficiently the various educat10nal
activities of the National Government; and.
Whereas The bill also provides Federal aid to the States for
the removal ' of illiteracy; for the Americanization of foreigners;
for physical education, health; and sanitation; for the better training of teachers, and for the partial payment of teachers' salaries,

96

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

and better: educational opportunities for all the children of the
Nation, particularly in rural districts; and
Whereas, The precedent for Federal aid has .becpme thoroughly
established. The National Government appropnates money for the
support of good roads, for colleges of agriculture and mechanic
arts, and also for vocational education, household arts, and other
forms of special education. Aid should undoubtedly be extended,
for the other purposes provided in this bill; and
Whereas, The bill is caref.ully drawn to prevent cenfralizatfon,
and to preserve to the States and local communities the man~ite­
ment: of the public schools. It providesFirst, That its provisions shall not become operative until accepted by a State, and until at least an equal amount of
money has been provided by the State or local authorities.
Se"a ond, That tbe money 11ppropriated to a State shall be dis,.,
tributed and administered by the State in accordance w.ith
law.s.
Third, That education in all its phases, "shall be organized, SU•
pervised and administered exclusively by the legalllY constituted State and loc11l education authorities of the State";
an4
·
Whereas, Thousands of children in America have no free
school advantages and other thousands attend school in unsanitary.
b.uildings, taug-ht by uneducated teachers; and
Whe11eas, The Smith-Towner bill rests on the assumption that
in, order to insure national prosperity and preserve our Amer.ican
institutions there mus t be developed through education a citizen·
ship i;1hysically, intellectually, and morally sG>und, and that because
of. th.is fact the N a.tional Government is vitally interested in the
promotion of public; education in all the States: and
·
Whereas, This bill creates a Department of Educatio n and
provides Federal aid for encouraging the States in the promotion
of education. It makes for efficiency in administration by con- .
solidating the various educational agenc~s of the Government, into
one department under · a r~sponsible he11d, equal in rank to· the
heads of other Executive Departments. Every other great nation
in the world .has a department devoted to education; therefore,
Be It Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of Mississippi in annual communication assembled, reaffirms its unqualified endorsement of our public school
system and pledges every influence within its power to maintain
and safeguard the same from the assaults of those who would
destl'oy and create in its stead, a sys tem of parochial schools, sup;
ported by public taxatipn, dominated and controlled by and under
the absolute influence and power of an autocratic hierarchy upon
ideas foreign in conception and directly contrary to the theory
of that "American democl'acy upon w hich this Nation was builded,
for the safety of which the flower of American manhoo d gave its
life blood upon the battlefields of Franctt and Belgium; therefore.
Be It Further R esolved, That the Grand Lodge endorses the
efforts of those who seek to create a National Department of Education with a Secretary of Education in the President's Cabinet
as its head along lines set forth in the Smith-Towner bill as above
set forth, the several States to have absolute and exclusive organization; supervis io n and adminis tration by the legally constituted
State and local ~duca tional authorities.

97

QUESTIONNAIRES
.
The practice of securing a more detailed statement from petitioners for membership is gradually being extended. It cannot. h_elp
but have a good influence in the quality of ou~ growth. Tram~~g
Investigating Committees by furnishing the~ with a form ~~ka gw ~
for their work is also coming into use, and will also have a 1 e goo
influence.
District of Columbia:
·
f

W
· ed by Past Grand Master James
·
to
.for correspondence
with Lodges and persons in other 1unsd1chons.
Dear Sir and Brother:
·
Mr ...................................................................'...................., who fl~~e;~
resided at ............:........:....h·:·:......t.:t:·······r····--t"i;~--d~·g;;~;·-~f"F~~~masonry
locality, has presen.ted is y.e I wn .;ha requirement of the Consti0
i~tf~~s ~ ~~:· c~a~~n :L~die 'in~!q~~st that you will kindly answer

Wit~~'e ~~~l~rl~~~d ~~~· su~~\Jed .ea~h ~o.dge
d

j?i~s!~IIH:~n~e qt~e~~~~sknowledge ever been a defendant in a criminal case in court?

~nswe;..=H~~--h·~·-;~··;~~·;··k;;~~j·~·d;~-·~~~·;··b~~~·;~j·~-~·~~d--f~;-~h~--d·;
eco;r~es of Freemasonry, and if so, in what Lodge?

~~~~:n~--;~~-·k·~~~--~-£--~~;·;~~~~-~--~h;··h·~--~h-~~i·<l--~~;--b'~·-;i~~~-;<l
to receive the degrees?

~ns~~r~p"j~-~~-~-·~~~~-~---~~;··~-~h-~~---f~~;~·-:~;~-hl~··;~~;··~~~:;j;;j;~--~h;;

our o~ may think worthy of consideration, and s1g~ yohr name
~nd give the name and number of your Lodge m t e space
below.
Answer ················································:······················:····················:··················:-:

:~::~:~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

....... ....·.......................H·········-·-·~

OOOOOOOo~OOOOO:;;~~:-~·-;~~~---~:::~~:--~~---~~-~:··sheet and_ mailing it in the

~f1~se~~os~~~dt~~v;~~ftT~h:dwld~f~sl~!fe:~ed~f~~haii
g:~f· JetJ3~=~~
to this Lodge and a e p u service o
. b
h

f

.

sa.:~:s if favorable, will be treate~ as entire\r conf\dehht /

t e
comm'ittee, and will not be filed w1t)1 the arc 1ves o t e o ge.
Thanking you in advance for this favor, I am
Yours sincerely and fraternally, ·
· ·
..............~.....................................................Secretary,
Address..................................................................,.._.,.•
·
·
Answers
by...............................................................
.a member of..............._
.......................................•
Sign
Name in Full.
············································ Lodge ' N 0 ... ...... .... ...., of

98

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Indiana:
Hereafter petitioners for initiation must fill up a "questionnaire" of twenty questions with their petitions, then each member
of the Investigating Committee must fill up another questionnaire,
containing, inter a!ia, the following questions:
"Have you personally seen and talked to the applicant? Why
does he petition the Lodge? Is he married? Does he live with
his wife? If divorced, give reasons. Has he lived here but a short
time; if so, have you communicated with the Lodge of his previous
Jurisdiction? What was his reputation there? Is he successful in
his occupation? Has he ever been in any serious trouble or convicted of a crime? What is his reputation in this community for
honesty, integrity and morality? How does he spend his leisure
time? How many persons did you interview regarding the petitioner?"
This questionnaire must be answered and filed with your petition:
Name ............................................................................... ,...................... ~ .. ..
Residence Address ...........................................- ..... - ............................ ..
Residence Telephone ............................................................. ,.............. ..
Occupation .................................................................................................
5. Plac.e of Businell&._........... _.......................,....,......................... ~ ..._.,.:,.••.•
6. Business Telephone ......... :......................................................................
7. Where do you want mail sent?..........................................................- ..
8. Date and place or ~irth, ......................_, ..... _............,,... _..;......... ~ .. - ...... ~
·9: What is (or was) your father's occupation? ....................................
10. Is (or was) your father a Mason? .............. _.......... _..........................
11. If so, in what Locige was his membership? .................................... ..
12. . Are anY. of your brothers Masons? ......................:···---..........,..........
13. If so, in what lodges are their membership? ................................ ..
14. A.re you married?-~-~--~ •.,,., ..,,., ....,..... ,.., ...,.......... .,,............... '
15. If so,· date and place ·of mal'riage-........................................................
16. Give list of places you have lived for five years last past ............
17. How long have you lived in the jurisdiction of this lodge?........
18. Havl'. you ever been denied membership in or suspended or
1.
2.
3.
4.

19.

20.

expelled from any fraternal organization? ......................................
Give names and addresses of three of Y.our most intimate personal friends, other than those who signed your application ......
Give names and ·addresses of three references other than above.

n ·ate"'.: ..:::.....::.... ~ ..... ~.....................:.... Signed ....- ...............................................

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

99

Massachusetts:
· TO APPLICANTS FOR THE DEGREES IN ANCIENT
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
For the protection of the Fraternity it is ~ecessary that ~ar~ful
inquiries should be made concerning all applicants for ad~1ss1on.
To facilitate such inquiries you are requested to fill _out. this blank
in triplicate and file the three copies with your apphcat10n.
1. Name in full.. .. _...................... :.........................................................- 2 Proposed by
.............................................................................:··""
I have never bef~~~ applied fo.r Masonic d~grees. (If prev10us
application has been made, give full particulars.)

3:

··;i'"···t·;~·~·-"h·~~~--i·~ ....... :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::r:»~"t~::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::
Have lived in "("give number of years and dates of residence
in each place.) .
·
............... . . ...........................,........... :............... ............................................................................................. ................,...

s:

~

-

..tf"T;·~·~···~·d~~~t~·d--i~-·(·gi~·~...s~·h~~"is·:··;:c~d~~i~~;··~-~-·~~·iieg~·5:···~tb

· number of years and dates in each).

............................................................................................................................................,.......................

..7:····~~~b::if0~~~~~~--~~i::~i~~~:~·~1~~~~Y~~:;s~--~~~i~~:~~~~)~:~~

ployment, and dates of service with e~ch. ~f m bus~ness !or
yourself or in. the practice of a profession, give the kmd, with .
places and dates.)
........................ ....................... .......................................................................................... .........................-:

..

~

~

~

s:·--·1··~-;:;;:::::::~::::::::.-.-.·;;;.~~~i~<l:··

9.

10.

11.

................................,.........................................

I have .................... children.
Ch
h f h. h
I am an attendant upon .............,.................,.,...... ui:c o w 1c
I am .................... a member.
.
My reason for desiring to become a Mason 1s.............; ...........: .....;

"i2:·..·1--~·e-£~~..£~·;··£·~~-1h·~·;.. ;~-i~-;~~i·1~~..i-;..1h·~··;;~-~~-~~ ..~~-;;;e-<l ..b~-ic:i-~:·...
SCHOOL ASSOCIATES
Name

Address

1.
2.
3.

.............................BU.SIN°iis'S""Ass'oci'AT.is"""'"'""""""'"''"•····..····
Name

4.

5.

Address

••••-•o••••••••••••••••••••.,••••••••••••••4•••••"•••••••••••••"••••••u-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
• ............................................................... ............................ u

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

6.

.........................................N.Ei"Gri:'i30'1is'•••••.............................................

7.
8.

................................................................................................ _..._.................................................... _

Name

9.

Address

""""""""""""""'"""""'""""""""'"'H""""'"'""H"'"""'"'""_. ..........................................................................................,_,_~
•••••••••••••••~•••••••••••••••n•••••••••••••••••••••••••:•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••••• ...

(Signed)

..................,................- ......................,.

100

REPORT ON · COR!lESPON:DENCE

*

*

*

*

*

*

Brother:
• The. :Worshipful M.a ster ~£............................ Lodge, A. F. & A. M.,
1
has: ,~pp~mted you as one of a Committee of Investigation upon the
Application for the Degrees of
,

1i~:~t~~)~~r;:- :~;:~-: ~: i: :~=;i~ =; ;~ :~_~:
Recommended by
Bro .....,.......,:,.......................................
;; ; . Y <:>U are requested to make a thorough investigation and report
oy matl to the Secte_tary, a? soon as you can consistently with thoro_ughness ~nd care, if possible before the next regular CommunicattC?n- _A si~ple _report of " favorable" will not be sufficient. To aid
you.r _investigation yc;iu are furnished herewith with information
supplied by the applicant, and you are asked to fill out the following blank.
Have you seen the applicant?.................................,..... .
Does he believe in the existence of a Supreme Bei;~·?::::::::::::::::::::::::::
What fact\ stated. QY him. have_ you verified from independent
sources_. (Indicate by msertmg the numbers affixed to items
in applicant's report.)
!
·.
.................................................
...............................................................................-..........................................
~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

101

:Has •he any desire· for social or political reforms, · and · if yes, wha't
and .how brought about? ...,.......,.~.,•.....:......·- --..-·:.i..·"·····"'·····'":i.:...u.<!
'Of what clubs, · societies, or. orga·n izations ''bf any ·sort' ' i's' h~ )l
member ? ..:.:.:.,...................................c........ ::....::..-..:..~'-'·"-~·--···········':..:::.i::.~.
(This covers all church, social, educational, ·business; racial,
and labor <;>rganizations.)
·
.
..................~--~------·-'-·---·H••··········"······H••···---------------··········-········;....................................................-

What is your personal impression of him . as · gained through an
interview? ...,. ...............................:.........................:-.········~·····-··-·.-····""'·"···~~····"'"-.,-"'~..
••••••••••••••••••••••••.,••••U•••••••••••••~•·•~·•••••••••••••••.,'•••••••••••<t••••••••••-••••..•"':"'•••'••~••~•••••••......t'~

.......... ~,_.. ,...,.......,... ~--·················· ..···············t"························;........;....................._,.,.........,......_•.+
Would you like to. associate with him as a ni.embe'r of the Lodger
..........................................................................................................-..--.-·-········....
Is your report " favorable" or "unfavorable"?......,-..;......~-----------·········'"··'·
What further comment have you to make on this application?.. ~.;...;.

-····-·····

••••••••••••••••••-•••••••••••-~'"•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••O'•••••H•9•"'•"'"'""'"'"'"''"o.•o•••••

...................................:.............................................................................................4

·
Member of the Committee.
Fraternally yours,
Committee:
...................................................................................
Secretary,

.......................................................... .... ...............
~

.............................................................................

RELIGION
As Masonry does not concern itself with religion, and is not a
religion itself, any effort to introduce that topic into our work oiproceedings cannot have other than a bad effect. We presume it
will continue to be a · matter of debate "until time shall be no
more." All of us like to play with edged tools.
Alabama:
There are those perfectly h onest Brethren who, if they could,
would n ot only require this .belief but belief in every doctrine anq
statement of the Bible as well as in every orthodox teaching of
Christianity.
·

*

*

*

*

*

•

Some Grand Lodges have added to these requirements a belief
in the Christian religion. We can see nothing to prevent a Grand
Lodge some day requiring a declaration of a belief in "foreordiria.:
tion" or "free moral agency." It is certainly an innovation in the
body of Masonry to exact a belief in immortality.
British Columbia:
As part of the opening ceremonies the Grand Chaplain deliv ..
ered one of those extemporaneous "prayers" which are peculiar to
the Grand Lodges of the United States, and which, as a matter of
fact, are more news-letters than prayers.

*

*

*

*

*

*

Because we have, at different times, criticized some of the
nonsense found in some · Grand Master'-s addresses, and some of
the alleged prayers offered by some Grand Chaplains, we have more

103

REPORT . ON CORRESPONDENCE

·1tEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

than once ~een ac~used of being prejudiced against the United
States. . It .1s cheering, therefore, to find at least one reviewer in
tBhat country who hol~s similar views to ours. Here is what
rother Knepper says tn his review of Michigan:
h. "Thhe Grand Mast~r gives u~ several pages of his address in
w 1ch .e shows ~h~t ~aso!1ry 1s not a mere secret society,' and
draws w1ldly.on .his 1magmat10n as he shows what Masonry teaches.
V:1 e are not mclmed to fin~ fault with this most beautiful introduc.tton, ?u.t we regret exceedmgly that we have never witnessed the
woTktng out of th~s.e lofty ideals into the everyday life of the
Lo~ge: .we have v1s1ted. ~odges in at least twelve different Grand
Junsd1ct~ons and h~ve v1s1ted many times in the last thirty years,
but outside. Masonic lectures and the Grand Master's addresses
w.e have. fa1le? to .see how 'with solemn ~eremonies, he ( the can·fd1date). ts punfi~d and consecrated, the evils of his inheritance fall
r?m hm~, the h~ht of knowledge floods him, and he is invested
with punty and mnc;icence.' Would that what the Grand Master
has so eloquently said were true.
"After the Gra.nd Master· had finished an introduction that covered mo.r e than nme ·pages, he called upon the Chaplain. Then
follows a long prayer. We have never heard a prayer in which
th~ author was on such familiar terms with his Maker. He tells
the L~rd that .th~ boys are going to war jovfully. 'They are ~oing
on the.1r .way smgmg and this is what they sing.' Here is introduced
eleven Imes of a po pular song: 'And w e'll show them what the
Yankee D oodle boys can do.' We adopt these words taken from
the prayer: 'It seems sacriligious to us'."

oifferent views taken of the Bible by those 176 sects, so why should
.we complain?

102

District of Columbia:
·
Preachers in Indianapolis get ten times as much for preaching
the kmd of sermons (sometimes sophistry) the people want to
hea~.
The Grand .Master commends the ·custom commenced in
In.d1'!na, of presenting a Bible to each Master Mason after he is
ra1s.ei:i. He reported that he had presented $600 to . the Armenian
Relief Fund. Surely he ~on't know any Armenians or he would
not have made such a mistake.
It .recalls our reply to the question of the editor of a Scottish
mag.az1~e , who as.ked us wh!'-t was our religious belief, to which we
teplied: 1 We beh,~ve there 1s but one God and George Washington
was His prophet.
It does not vary much from the faith of the
Alabama Masons.
A declaratio n ?f M.asonic faith as to <?od and the Holy Bible
w;as offered by M . .W . . Brother Jas. A. Bilbro. ·It is a little am-·
b1guous and may he. susceptible. t o mo,re than one interpretation. A
Mussulman, Brahmm, or Budd1st b elieves in a Supreme Being as
w e do, but they have not named him God.
'
He notes our recognition of the Grand Lodge of France but
queries. a Frenchm11;n who said, "We Frenchmen do not tak~ the
aame view of the Bible as you Americans do."
' We do not. recall any Frenchman as saying that, but it would
n<?t affect ?S 1f w e had. We do recall that a dear old French
fri end of Nice, m 1878, after two years' travel In the United States
w~s asked what he thought of the Americans and replied : "Mo~
D1eu ! One hund,red a!1d seventy•six religions ~nd only one soup!"
It occurred to this wnter at the time that there were probably 176

Florida:
He (Maryland) noticei the refusal of Gra~d. Master, Warlow to
grant a dispensation for a Lodge to attend Divine service on Sunday as contrary to regulation, etc., he naturally wond~rs why ~e
·have such a regulation and the cause therefor. Replying we will
say that the regulation was adopted that Lodges thou\d not atte~d
Divine service .i n regalia because some of the Masters were inclined to summons the members to attend and as there were Jews
who were members of the Lodges it placed them in an embarassing position.
Many of our Americ!J-n Masons do not understan? ~hat ..in
Continental Lodges the Bible is not upon the Altar, but 1t is lying
on the Master'~ pedestal, as is also the case in some of the Eng·
lish·speaking Lodges. It has been decided in Massachusetts, af.ter
an exhaustive examination of the law and precedent, that according
.to the ancient regulations, it is the Sacred Book of the Law, which
is placed upon the Altar. It will be readily understood that the
Sacred Book of the Law includes th e Koran, the Veda, th e Pentateuch, the Scruti, as well as the Bible.
' Referring to the question o f the use of the Holy Bible on the
Altar in English and American Lodges, we no.te in t he ~ast Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of England that 1t was decided that
the provincial Grand Lodge of India could initiate candidates
without ipterference with religion , and laid down the rule, "He
need not cease to be a Mohammedan, Buddhist, Hindu, Jew, Christian or any other denomination."
The Grand Registrar of the Grand Lodge of England stated,
"It is not a question of the Bible being on the Altar," it is "The
Volume of the · Sa cred L aw." Among the· Christians it is the Old
and New Testament combined. Among th e J ews, it is the Old
Testament alone. Among the Mohammedans, it is the K oran.
During the latter part of 1875, there was considerable stir
among the Craft L odges in India, as ta the propriety of the use
of the Koran in Masonic Lodges under English Constitutions.
Considerable cor respondence was h ad with the Gra nd Lodge of
England, in L ondon, which brought Ol!t the. fact ?f t he initiation
of the King of O udh, a Mohammedan, in Friendship L odge No. 6,
in London, on April 14, 1836. At t he initiatory ceremonies, a volume of the Koran was u sed. The book had been furnished by
the Grand Master, and the candidate was obligated upon it by
·t he Grand Master of the Lodge, who was an English clergyman.
This stopped further discussion, and it was settled in the Grand
Lodge of England and her colonies, that it was proper to obligate
all candidates upon that particular book which they held to be
most sacred, and contains the wotk of De'ity. All of th is has been
accepted and acknowledged as correct and right by the Grand
Lodge of Scotland, and the annual appointment of Grand Shastii
Bearer, Grand Veda, Bearer, Grand K oran Bearer, Grand Bible
Bearer, etc., has been regularly made.

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Georgia: ..
.
The Grand Master reports and commends the custom of holdmg annual church services. For the life of us we cannot see why
!llore Lodges d_o not hold such exercises. Ma~onry teaches moral~
1ty, and. even if we do not urge the principles of spirituality a
churc~ 1s rather a good place in which to learn morality and the
attending lesson of spirituality will not injure Masons or· Masonry.
New South Wales:
In Florida it appears to be the c1:1stom to grant immunity from
fehs and, dues to clergymen, and he says it would be like disturbing
a ornet s .nest to attempt a change, but he agrees with and quotes
the following from the address of the . Grand Master of Iowa:
"Just why the ministers should be exempt from paying dues I
have never been able .to reason out. If he thoroughly desires to
beco!lle a ~a.s?n•. and if he respects at all the relationship accorded
~o him by 1~1t1ahon, then he surely would not wish to be pauperized. by special provision of this character. He does not enter the
precinc.ts of, a Lodge as a representative of the Almighty. · He
c;:omes In as a man, free born, of lawful age and well recommended •
He does not come to reform the Lodge, any more than the Lodg~
undertake~ the task. of reforming him. He comes as a man among
men,. seeking for himself and endeavoring to help others to seek
the hght."
Utah:
Thoughtful, observant Craftsmen have noted the tendency on.
t~e part of not a few zealous, well intentioned Brothers to Chrisyanize Masonry-~ore a~curately, perhaps, to inject• into the
body of Masonry, the virus of narrow sectarian doctrines and
dGogmas. Grand Masters, Correspondents, Special Committees and
rand Grat.o rs have eac~ ~nd all taken a hand in this work. As
we sense this movem~nt 1t 1s o~~ that should be met by the instant,
avowed and unwavermg oppos1t10n of Masons everywhere.
The I!laker of ~reed;S is .at work. Among the evid~nces of his
pres~nce Just now in mind 1s that which shows him insisting that
applicants for the .degrees must not only accept his individual
~h1bboleth as ~o Deity, .but must go to the absurd length of avowing a firm belief t~at this is "the essential landmark" of Masonry
As tho~gh a ca,?d1date is in a position to make pronouncement~
concerning the landmarks." Could folly further go?
"WHAT HAVE YE DONE"
. !he various Grand Secretaries wer~ asked what, in their
opm1on, was the most practical thing that had been accomplished in
their Jurisd_iction d~ing the past year for the good of the Fraternity.
The following replies have been received:
Alabama: Erection and equipment of $75,000.00 building at
Masonic Home.

~rd~nsas: Payment of a pension of $20.00 per month to widows
an d m 1gent aged Masons on the pension list.
•

REPQRT ON CORRESPONDENCE

105

Co~oradq:
The adoption of a law providing that if .c ertain
Masonic organizations . sha11 fail to enac't a law requiring that a
petitioner for the Degrees .·coµferred by such Bodies shal} be a
Master Mason for at least one year or shall fail to enact a law
prohibiting members of such organizations from soliciting Entered
Apprentices, Fellow Crafts or Master Masons to petition for the
Degrees conferred by such. Bodies, the Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge shall withdraw recognition of such organizations.

Delaware: Starting a scholarship fund for the purpose of
educating a son or daughter of a Delaware Mason at Delaware
University,
District of Columbia: The setting apart, by constitutional
enactment, of $5.00 of the fee for the degrees paid by each candidate
for donation to the Endowment Fund of the Masonic and Eastern
Star Home.
Idaho: Preaching Masonic Education by the Grand Maste:
and the establishment of local Masonic libraries.
Illinois: The improvement and mafotenance of our two Homes
-at Sullivan for the aged and infirm-at La Grange for the children.
Louisiana: At the Constitutional Convention recently held, if
it had not been for our vigilance an ordinance would have been
adopted and inserted permitting the diversion of the public funds
to the ·.support of sectarian institutions.
Michigan:
petitioners.

Adopting a Questionnaire to be filled out by all

Minnesota:
search.

The appropriation of $4,000.00 for Masonic Re-

Missouri: The enacting of legislation whereby every petitioner
must pay a $ZO.OO fee, in addition to the usual fee for the degrees,
this $20.00 for the benefit of the Masonic Home. At July 1, 1921,
the income since October 15, 1920, was over $76,000.00.
Montana: The support of a Masonic widow and six children in
Minnesota, the support given from our Relief Fund being practically
all they had to live on. They were originally down and out and
are now well and happy.
Starting fund to help small Lodges erect Masonic halls.
Nebraska: Passing a law making it a Masonic offense to apply
to any Scottish or York Rite body for the degrees therein, or to
solicit such a petition from another until after the lapse of one
year· from the time said petitioner has been made a Master Mason,
and shall have attended at least t w elve regular meetings of a
Master Masons Lodge or Lodges, and shall have compiled with the
provisions of Section 66 of the Grand Lodge Law as to proficiency;
also making it a Masonic offense to petition the Ancient Arabic
Order of N obles of the Mystic Shrine before two years hav e elapsed
since being made a Master Mason. The promise embodied in the
above was also inserted in our petitions for initiation.

· REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

107

R£PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

106

Nevada: Aroused interest in public schools by addresses and
· special meetings. Addresses in Lodges on "Clean Manhood." Steps
taken . to have Lodges celebrate Washington's Birthday, the St.
John's days, and "Armistice Day."
New Hampshire: Assessinent of one dollar per capita for the
Washington Memorial and our activity with the Service Association
of the U.S.
New Mexico: Receiving a large contribution to our Masonic
Home Fund, being $2.00 per capita in accordance with law adopted
at previous communication, bringing the Grand Lod&"e Masonic
Home Fund to over $32,000.
New York: Undoubtedly the laying of the Corner-stone of the
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hospital at Utica, dedication of
which we hope will occur on Armistice Day, this fall.
North Carolina:
Organization perfected to educate along
Masonic, Civic · and Patriotic lines. Active co-operation with the
activities of the Masonic Service Association of the United States.
.

North Dakota: Are behind the Educational program of Masonic Service Association of U. S. Taken our stand for God and
country.
Oregon:
members.

Building Masonic

Home

for care of indigent

South Dakota:· Organizing to carry out the work of the Masonic Service Association along the lines of education.
Vermont : Increase of our Charity Fund and a deeper sense on
the part of Lodges of their obligations to their brethren.
Washington: A regulation providing for a contribution of
$10.00 to the Masonic Home by each petitioner for the degrees and
for affiliation.
Wyoming: The matter of taking care of the school question
and seeing that children were taught the principles of Americanism.
Nova Scotia:

Writing up the history of many subordinate

Lodges.
Prince Edward Island: The Instituting Chapters of the Order ·
of the Eastern Star, and giving them the use of lodge rooms for
their meetings.
Saskatchewan: The development of the District Meeting plan
at which the Grand Master officially meets representatives of all
Lodges in the District and lays before the Craft his plans for its
advancement.
Puerto Rico: It was the establishment of a Maso.nic Bank, the
issue of a Masonic Magazine named El Universo, and the support of
the Masonic Home for orphans and homeless children.
Panama! The Grand Lodge of Panama bought a big plot of
land for the purpose of building a Temple and disposed the omission
of Bonds up to $50,000.00 to erect the building.

CONCLUSION
Our ideas and views having been fully given in the report itself,
we omit a conclusion other than to borrow from Cor~espondent
Bro. JOSEPH M. LOWNDES, of Wyoming, the following:
There ain't no use kicking, brother,
What's all this holler about;
Because some poor correspondent
Has taken up the scissors route.
He is writing for his Craft,
So cut out your little whine;
They may like his way the best,
Better say, "Doing fine."
Do you remember what we're taught,
Seems to me I hear it clear,
As the Master to me said,
"Cheek to cheek or mouth to ear."
The thing to do is to curb your pen,
Kind words, be they yours or mine,
Will make more friends for you and me,
As we'll be, "feeling fine."
I use the scissors where ere I can;
They help to shorten the day,
And to the Craft they give the words,
What the other fellow had to say.
You can call it fazy, indolent and such,
But three-fourths of the forty-nine
At the Round-Table, to the scissors
Do say, "cutting fine."
Yours sincerely and fratei:'-nally,
JESSE M. WHITED,
Chairman.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

lW

APPENDIX
AMERICAN MASONIC GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter Royal Arch Masons-William F. Kuhn,
General Grand High Priest, Kansas City, Missour·i ; Charles A.
Conover, General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Mich. 39th Convocation. Time and place of meeting not yet decided.
Grand Chapter of .California-Madison Boyd J ones, Grand High
Priest, Los Angele s, California ; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. 68th Annual Convocation,
San Francisco, April 18, 1922.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masons-Fay Hempstead, General Grand Master, Little Rock, Kansas ; Henry W.
Mordhurst, General Grand Recorder, Fort Wayne, Ind. 15th Triennial Assembly. Time and place of meeting not yet decided.
Grand Council of California-Ernest' E. Ford, Grand Master,
Alhambra, California ; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, Masonic
Temple, San Francisco. 62nd Annual Assembly, San Francisco,
April 17, 1922.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar-Joseph K . Orr, Grand
Master, Atlanta, Ga.; Frank H. Johnson, Grand Recorder, Louisville, Ky. 35th Triennial Conclave, New Orleans, April 25, 1922.
Grand Commandery of California-William H. White, Grand
Commander, Sa~ Francisco ; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder,
Masonic Temple, San Francisco. 64th Annual Conclave, San Francisco, Cal., April 13, 1922.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. (Southern Jurisdiction)George F. Moore, 33° , Sovereign Grand Commander ; John H.
Cowles, 33°, Secretary General, House of the Temple, Washington,
D. C. Meets biennially third Monday in October, Washington,
D. C., William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, S. G. lnsp.
General, Northern District of California; Perry Winslow Weidner,
33°, Los Angeles, S. G. Insp. General, Southern District of California.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. (Northern Jurisdiction)Leon M. Abbott, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander, Robert A.
Shirrefs, 33°, Secretary General, 299 Broadway, New York. Meets
annually the third Tuesday in September, Boston, Mass.
Imperial Council, A. A. 0. N. M. S.-Ernest A. Cutts, Imperial
Potentate, Savannah, Georgia; Benjamin W . Rowell, Imperial
Recorder,. Masonic Temple. Boston , Mass. 48th Annual Session,
San Francisco, California, ' June 13-15, 1922.
General Grand Chapter, Order Eastern Star-Mrs. Ellie Lines
Chapin, General Grand Matron, Pine Meadows; Conn.; Mrs. Minnie
E. Keyes, General Grand Secretary, Lansing, Mich. 17th Triennial
Assembly, Washington, D. C., 1922.
Grand Chapter of California-Mrs. T. E. F. Easton, Grand
Matron, San Francisco, California; Mrs. Kate J . Willats, Grand
Secretary, 1002 Ellis Street, San Francisco, California. Annual
Session, San Francisco, October 18, 1921.

110

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MEETING MONTHS

OF ANNUAL

COMMUNICATIONS

January-Florida, Minnesota, North Carolina Texas Vermont Philippine Islands, France (Grand Orient).'
'
· '
February-Arb:ona, Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana Mississippi
New Mexico, Oklahoma, Washington, Quebec, Scotland.
'
March-Cuba.
April-New Jersey, New Brunswick, South Australia,
(York) Porto Rico.

Mexico

May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire New y ork
South Carolina, Alberta, New Zealand.
'
'
June-l?wa, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, Pennsylvam~, Tennessee, Virginia, W es't Virginia:, British Columbia,
Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan,
Queensland.
July-Canada, New South Wales.
August-Montana.
September-Idaho, Missouri, Wyoming.
October-California, Colorado, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio.
November-Arkansas, Georgia, Maryland, Wisco•sin.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, South Dakota, Utah, Tasmania, Ireland.

111

MASONIC PERIODICALS
Arkansas-Masonic Trowel; Little Rock.
California-Southwestern Freemason, Los Angeles; Masonic
Digest, Los Angeles; Trestle Board, San Francisco.
Colorado-Square and Compass, Denver.
Delaware-Masonic Index, Wilmington.
District of Columbia-Fellowship Forum, New Age, Washington.
·
Florida-Fraternal Record, Jacksonville; Florida Masonic
Journal, Jacksonville.
Georgia-Masonic Herald, Rome.
Illinois-Masonic Chronicle, Chicago; Fraternalist, Chicago;
Voice Review, Chicago; Illinois Freemason, Bloomington; Masonic
Review, Arcola; Masonic News, Peoria; Mystic Light (Negro),
Rock Island.
·
Iowa-The Builder, Anamosa; The Quarterly Bulletin Grand
Lodge of Iowa, Cedar Rapids.
Indiana-Masonic Tidings, Winona Lake.
Kentucky-Maso nic Home Journal, Louisville; Light, Louisville; Scottish Rite Bulletin, Louisville.
Louisiana-Square and Compasses, New Orleans; Plumb Line
(Negro), Natchitoches. ·
Maine-Masonic Token, Portland.
Massachusetts- New England Craftsman, Boston.
Michigan - Tyler-Keystone, Ann Arbor; Tyler-Keystone,
Owosso; Palistine Bulletin, Detroit; Trestle Board, Detroit; The
Ashlar, Detroit; Friendship Bulletin, Detroit.
Missouri-Inter- State Freemason, Kansas City: Kansas City
Freemason; Kansas City; Missouri Freemason, St. Louis.
Minnesota-The Crescent, St. Paul ; Masonic Calendar, Duluth;
Masonic Observer, Minneapolis.
.
·
North. Carolina- Masonic Journal, Oxford.
New York-Masol).ic Standard, New York; Brotherhood, New
York; Gavel, Newburgh; Masonic News, Brooklyn.
Oklahoma-Oklahoma Mason, McAlister.
Ohio-Masonic Bulletin, Cleveland.
Pennsylvania-Masonic Monthly, Philadelphia.
Tennessee-Tennessee Freemason, Nashville.
Texas-Texas Freemason, San Antonio.
Utah-Universal Freemason (CLANDESTINE), Salt Lake
City.
Virginia-Masonic Journal, Richmond.
Washington-Masonic Tribune, Seattle; Masonic Review, Tacoma.
Wisconsin-Masonic Tidings, Milwaukee.
Foreign.
Australia-Australian Free Lance, Melbourne.
England-Freemason, London: Miscellanea Latomorum, London; Transactions of Coronati Lodge No. 2076, London.
South Africa-Masonic Journal Johannesburg.
New Zealand-Master and Past Master, Christchurch.
India-Review of Religions, .Gurdaspur.
Canada-Freemason, Toronto; Masonic Sun, Toronto.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States
are generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite.
Properly speaking', they should be termed the American Rite and
the Scottish Rite, for .the one commonly called York is peculiar in
its organized proceedings only to the United States.
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.
The Symbolic degrees are conferred in a Lodge and are the
Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They
are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction
is by symbols.
The Capitular degrees are conferred in a Royal Arch Chapter
and are the Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent
Master and the Royal Arch . The supplemental and honorary degr.ees of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of High Priests
upon those• who have been regularly elected to preside over a
Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. They are called Capitular because
they are conferred in a Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning
"done in a Chapt er."
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the
Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called Cryptic because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight
Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take
the · temple at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the
33rd, inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States
(which includes all territory south of the Ohio River and west of
the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and
the degrees conferred by them are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 ° to
14', inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, 15' to 18°; Council of Kadosh,
19' to 30'; Consistory, 31' to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.
In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes all States north
of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River) the degrees
conferred are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 • to 14 •, inclusive; Council
Princes of Jerusalem, 15° and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and
18°; Consistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.

REl'ORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

~J

f--<u
.... z
..... ~

~i=i
~z

Oo
Up..
r/l

Cl:::

r.. (fJ
o~
z~

i:il ~o
~u
u
..... .... r...
~

~
~

0

a~

~

z

<i:
Cl:::

0

~

0

~

r/l

ril

~

<
....

r/l

r2 I zu
~

Cl:::
~
~

<i:

~~

<~

~(fJ

"

~

z

<i:

r/l

ril

0

~

0

(fJI

~

~

~

~

....
z(fJ
z ..::<
<i: ~ )1
Cl:::
0
~

"

(fJI
~

~

"

z~

~3

"

113

~

ti

North Dakota·-----·-····-Henry E. Byorum, Minot...................._ ... Walter L. Stockwell, Fargo...................... Grant S. Hager, Fargo
Nova Scotia·------ ·-··---J- Murray Lawson, Yarmouth................_James C. Jones, Halifax......._______________......James C. Jones, Halifax
Ohio................................Johp R. Flatron, Dayton.......................... J. H . Bromwell, Cincinnati........................ Nelson Williams, Hamilto.n
Oklahoma......................--·-·----------------------·------···---------------------'---'·----~ Wm. M. Aiiderson, Oklahoma City..........Thomas C. Humphrey, Hugo
Orcgon...........................Frank S. Baillie, Portland .........:.............. J. F . Robinson, Portlartd............................ D. P. Mason, Albany
Panama._ ....................... A. D. H . Melhado, Panama....._____________ Victor Jesurun, Box 152, Abogado.......... Gerard M. Fuhring, Panama
Pennsylvania......._........John S. Sell, Philadelphia......._______________John A. Perry, Philadell\hia......................Thomas F. Penman, Scranton
Philippine Islands.........Rafael Palma, Manila..---··--·-···-·----·--··----·Newton C. Comfort, Manila_.................... George R. Harvey, Manila
Porto Rico.................___W. F. Lippitt, Box 362, San Juan........ Jose J. Torres, San Juan.·--·----------·-----------Dr. P edro de! Valle, Ateies
P . E. Island...................John McKevin, Charlottetown.................. E. T . Carbo.nell, Charlottetown................W. P . Doull, Charlottetown
Quebec.....:.... _................Charles M. McBurney, Lachute.............. W . W. Williamson, MontreaL................ E. T. D. Chambers, Quebec City

-

M

z

n

M

·Grand Lodges and Addresses of Grand Officers-.-Continued

GRAND
LODGES

GRAND
MASTERS

GRAND
SECRETARY-

CHAIRMEN· OF COMMITTEES
ON F. CORRESPONDENCE-

Queensland................- ..J ames Stodart, Brisbane.....-----------·------·-Chas. H . Harley, Brisbane........................
Rhode Island.......•.•.......Joseph Lawton, Pro.vidence...................... S. Penrose Williams, Providence..............William L. Chatterton, Pawtucket
Saskatchewan......·-···--.Dr. George M, Weir, Saskatchewan_______w_B .Tate, Regina...... ----·-·-------·-·····-------W. M. Thomson , Ft. Qu' Apelle
Scotland..........--------Col. Robt. King Stewart, Murdostown..David Reid, Edinburgh................................
South Australia..---Arthur W. Piper, Adelaide.... ----·------·-----Chas. R. J . Glover, A'.delaide....................
South Carolina__S_ T . Lanham, Spartansburg...---------·------0 . Frank Hart, Columbia......__________________ J_ L. Michie, Darlington
South Dakota___________ w. F. R. Horton, Huron....•..•................... George A. Pettigrew, Sioux Falls............ Charles L. Brackway, Sioux Falls
Switzerland (Alpina) ...Prof. J. Oettli, Lausanne...........................Fr. Zimmerman, Berne................................ Ed. Quartier-la-Tente, Beau Arts,
26 Neuchatel
Tasmania----------····-----Hon. E. C. Davies, Hobart.. .................... John Hamilton, Hobart.-------·-------------- Tennessee..........-·----Rodney BlaKe, Erin.............- ------------------S. M. Cain, Nashville. ......----·-------·--····-----Henry Pi.. Chambers, Chattanooga
Texas.........................- .. Andrew L. Randall, Sherman..................W . B. Pearson, Waco.................................. James D. Crenshaw, San Antonio
Utah...................-------John E. Carver, Og\ien.............................. Freeman A. McC~rty, Salt Lake City...... S. H. Goodwin, .Provo
Vermont.........................Archie S. Harriman, Middlebury............Henry H. Ross, Burlington________________..... E. E. Weston, New Haven
1
Victoria......------------------F. T. Rickford D.G.M., Act.,Melbourne.. Chas. J. Barrow, Melbourne......................' rt'I - r'l :
Virginia....---·-·----------.John S. Bottimore, Tazewell.....----------------Chas. A. Nesbitt, Ricbmond ......- ................ Dr. Joseph W. Eggleston, Richmond
Washington...·----------·---Jonn Gifford, Spokane.........-------------------H. W. Tyler, Tacoma.................................. Ralph C. McAllister, Seattle
}Vest Virginia......- ......A. C. Nadenbousch, Martinsburg............Jobn M. Collins, Charleston____________ ,....... George W. Atkinson, Charleston
West A'.ustralia..............Sir Wm. Ellison McCartney, Perth........J. D. Stevenso.n, Perth·------------ ·-------······--J. D. Stevenson, Perth
Wisconsin'·-------····-·---William H. Wheeler, Chippewa Falls...... W. W. Perry, Milwaukee________________.......A!dro Jenks, Dodgeville
Wyoming...:·-------~-------------------···--·-----;·-·---·---------------------------------J. M. Lowndes, Lander.---------------=--------J. M. Lowndes, Casper

:z:i
M
'd

0

:z:i
>-l

0

z
n

0

:z:i
:z:i
t'1

Vl

'd

0

zt!
z
n

M

M

.....
.....
"-"

116

FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS

GRAND LODGES, MEMBERSHIP, DATE OF ORGANIZATION
AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED.

Lodges Membership

Compiled by JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman, Committee on Correspondence, California, 1921.

U. S. JURISDICTIONS
Lodges Membe"'
ship

Membersbip

L~~t

When
Organized

42,692
779 June 14, 1821
4,600
550 Mar. 25, 1882
30,000
850 Nov. 21, 1838
84,776
1,294 April 18, 1850
23,790
1,150 Aug. 2, 1860
34,703
1,296 July 8, 1789
4,931
519 June 6, 1806
1,180 Dec. 11, 1810
16,306
18,933
742 July 5, 1830
61,942
1,002 Dec. 16, 1786
7,167
422 Dec. 16, 1867
203,447
1,868 April 6, 1840
108,021
2,204 Jan. 12, 1818
67,346
Jan. 8, 1844
62,992 . . "1 );00 " Mar. 17, 1850
65,000
1,540 Oct. 16, 1800
26,392
646 July 12, 1812
38,499
721 June 1, 1820
27,477
1,030 July 31, 1873
July 30, 1733
82,410
119,852 .. 3:973· Se~t. 14, 1844
45,593
2,140 Fe . 24, 1853
26,978
670 July 27, 1818
100,093
3,203 April 21, 1821
15,907
572 Jan. 24, 1866
34,647
1,318 Sept. 23, 1857
2,313
448 Jan. 16, 1865
13,344
667 July lfl, 1789
62,253
1,135 D ec. 18, 1786
5,276
518 Aug. 6, 1877
1,808 Sept. 5, 1781
254,282
32,925
607 Jan. 14, 1771
13,582
1,120 June 12, 1889
148,480
1,863 Jan. 7, 1808
Nov. 10, 1892
40,545
21,112 .. 'i:i48. Aug. 16, 1851
168,914
1,520 Aug. 16, 1851
956 Feb. 2, 1764
14,200
25,301
750 June 215, 1791
16,350
159 Mar. 24, 1787
37,570
905 July 21, 1875
Oct. 14, 1813
94,218
498 Dec. 20, 1837
3,690
17,012
581 Jan. 16, 1872
952 Oct. 14, 1794
35,200
Virginia. . ..........
33,954
1,286 May 6, 1777
Washington ... .•...
Doc. · 9, 1858
25,453
West Virginia. ..•.•.
May 11, 1865
38,651
Wisconsin ... .. . .. .
5,167 . . . '458' Dec. 18, 1843
Wyoming ...••.....
Dec. 15, 1874
15 638 2 464 286

Alabama .• •. ......
Arizona .•••. • .....
Arkansas .••••..•..
California .•.......
Colorado .•........
Connecticut ..•....
Delaware..........
District of Columbia
Flox:ida . ....•..••.•
Georgia . •• .• •••. ..
Idaho ..•.•.. •.. •. •
Illinois .•.••..••••.
Indiana . ••• ••. . . . .
Iowa . • ••••. . . .....
Kansas .. •••• •••••.
Kentucky .••••.. •.
Louisiana .. .•••.••.
Maine ••.•••..•• • .
Maryland ......••.
Massachusetts .•••.
Michigan .. •..•. • ..
Minnesota ..•.. ••..
Mississi~pi ...• •..•
Missouri. .••... .• .
Montana .••.•. .. ..
Nebraska .• ........
Nevada .• ... ..• • .•
New Hampshire •.••
N ew J ersey .• .•.•.•
New Mexico . .•.. ••
New York . . . ...••.
North Carolina . ....
North Dakota .•...
Ohio ..............
Oklahoma .. .. .•. •.
Oregon . . ...• .. ..•.
Pennsylvania ... . . •
Rhode Island ... .. .
South Carolina . .. .
South Dakota .. .. .•
Tennessee . .. .. ....
Texas... ••.. • ••. •.
Utah .• . . ..•..... . .
Vermont . .... , .. ..

565
30
650
419
104
116
22
33
237
678
70
885
570
625
423
605
269
206
117
271
463
279
367
649
130
283
23
80
214
52
909
449
124
587
423
152
526
39
280
159
457
891
24
103
335
231
158
286
40

··· ·····

117

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ProceedAnnual
ings
Comm unication
Reviewed
Dec.
Feb.
Nov.
Oct.
Oct.
Feb.
Oct.
Dec.
J&n.
Nov.
Sept.

Oct.

May
June
Feb.
Oct.
Feb.
May
Nov.
Dec.
May
Jan.
Feb.
Sept.
Aug.
June
June

Mlly

~ii.

1

May
Jan.
June
Oct.
Feb.
June
June
Dec.
May
Dec.
June
Jan.
Dec.
Jan.
June
Feb.
June
Nov.
June
Sept.

1920
1920-1921
1920

.. "i92ci ...
192o-21
1920
1920
1921
1920
1920
1920
1921

· ·····
1921··· ·
1920
1921
1921
1920
1920

... i92i ...
1921
1920
1920
1920-21
1921

... i92i ...
1921
1921
1920
1920
1920
1921

... i92ci .. .
1920
1920
1920
1921
1920
1921
1921
1921
1920
1920

... i92ci"' .

Alberta . . . ........
British Columbia....
Canada . ... . ......
Manitoba . ....... .
New Brunswick . ...
Nova Scotia . . .. . . .
Prince Edward Isle.
Quebec ............
Saskatchewan ......

New South Wales . .
New Zealand ... . . .
Queensland ........
South Australia . ...
Tasmania . . ...... ~
Victoria .. ..... . ...
West Australia . . . ..

Cuba .......... .. .
Mexico (York) .....
Philip~ne Islandi ..
Porto ico ....... .
Pana.ma . ..... . ...•

112
91
486
86
39
79
15
74
163

9,343
10,122
80,920
9,500
3,983
8,781
1,036
11,167
11,440

1,145

146,292

358
215
78
98
28
231
102

40,000
15,936
3,277
8,177
2,073
18,334
4,784

2,255

238,873

126
15
69
50
7

11,539
892
5,126
5,000
500

2,522

Membership
La~eet

When
Organized

/
ProceedAnnual
ings
Comm uniReviewed
catfon

Loge

Oct. 12, 1905
Feb. 22, 1832
Oct. 10, 1855
May 12, 1875
10, 1867
. " 34ci" Oct.
Jan. 21, 1866
158 June 24, 1875
490 Oct. 20, 1869
318 Aug. 9, 1906
411
451
923
716

May
June
July
June
April
June
June
Feb.
June

. .. i92ci"'.
. .. i92ci ...
1920
1921
1920

1920
July
3, 1877
. ....... Dec.
May
30, 1890
···
·······
··· ·······
···· ·· April
April 25, 1904 . June
. .. i92i .. .
April
. ....... April 16, 1884 June&Dec.
...... . . June 26, 1890
. i9i9" ..
auarterly
·. .......
·· ····· April 16, 1884
1920
1899 uarterly

333
229
321
325
150

5, 1859
1861
Dec. 19, 1912
8,
1885
Oct.

Dec.

Mar.
April
J11on.
April

1920
1920
1921

·· ········
······ ····

261,930

24, 1717 Quai:terly
England .... .......
········ June
Dec.
April 6, 1731
Ireland ............
Feb.
Oct.
15, 1736
Scotland. : ..... ...
June
25,
1832
Belgium ... ........
··· · ··· · Feb.
J11on.
Dec.
24,
1772
France (Grd. Orientl
··· ··· ··
1904
France (Grd. Lodge ··· ··· ... .. ..... ·· ··· ···
1803
June 22, 1844
664,930
8,013
D ec. 18, 1918 ··· ·······
3,350
520
1,183
23
4 15

1920-21
1920

240,000
30,000
70,000
41,000
22,000

······ ··
········

1921
1921
1921

····...
····.....
··
...
·········· ······· ···
·· ·· ···· ··
···· ······

119

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

118

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

FOREIGN GRAND BODIES
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL APPENDIX

Grand
Lodge

UNITED STATES AND FOREIGN MASONIC MEMBERSHIP

Grand
Council

Grand
Comd'y

2,065
8,136
1,013
t
734
5,426
C~h;~:~fS:
15,214
4,257
···· · ····· ·· ······· ·
1,620
6,599
11,593
7,657
1,760
t
4,456
281
Fl~rf,r o
o umbia . . ...... . ...... . ..
4,499
507
15,122
4,036
1,811
t
11,891
52,463
22,550
11,832
16,813
4,062
16,249
4,416
11,726
2,639
5,020
856
12,660
5,900
5,590
2,429
M!~;'a~~ u~~tt~ ." ." : : : · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
28,037
10,872
Massachusetts and Rhod~ ·1~i~~d · · · · · ' ·
· · 1oi1.i86 · ... 3ii",96i . . . . "10',i9B.
1,931
39,995
10,935
23,807
5,275
3,059
79,449
21,097
6,060
13,813
2,600
394
30,806
6,128
2,228
~evay. . ,,. ·: ., ,,, . . ,, ... , . ,,,.,,, . ,
2,178
562
t
2,947
New ampsh1re . . ... . . . .. . . . . . ..... . .
12,247
4,956
55,083
10,603
1,955
4,761
1,344
234,894
48,495
5;22~
N ~~h C~r~ii;,· ·.' ' ' ' ' · · ' ' ' ' · ' ' · ' · · ' · ' ·
30,912
795
5,750
North Dakota~ · "' '· · ' ·' '· · ' · ·' ·' · ·'
12,325
601
3,448
27,779
132,053
51,848
2,248
40,545
8,146
18,170
4,979
1,168
151,434
44,049
9,261
Rhod{ Island : : · ' ' ' " · · ' · ' · · · ' · ' · · ' ' ·
10,885
5,381
3,684
South Carolina. ' · ' '·· ''' ·· · · ·'·' ' · ' ' ·
21,723
3,770
2,357
South Dakota . . ' ''''··'''·' '·· '·'··' ·
14,628
4,310
763
Tennessee
· · ·' ·'' · · '· · ·' · · · ·' ·' ·
33,729
6,881
1,381
Texas
83,277
28,396
25,046
3,021
784
t
15,992
4,893
1,500
31,321
9,671 . ... ·1,498.
25,536
5,436
22,880
8,156
38,651
14,879 .... 4:333·
4,448
1,469

3,559
603
1,464
8,098
3,825
4,590

!~~.:'!~ :::::: :: ::::: : : :::: ::: : :::::

.. .... .... .... ... .. ' .... ' ..

~~~:~~~:~:-;:: : :.: :: ::::: :::::::::::

~rt~};::::
:::::::::: ::::: :::::::::
···· ····· ·· ···· ··· ·· ··· ·· ····

~~·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
~· · · •••</ [

37,217
3,786
25,574
67,810
21,257
31,298
4,381
13,723
16,612
55,060
6,934
203,447
98,170
67,346
62,992
53,182
23,008
35,670
21,978
82,410

Grand
Chapter

.

···· ·· ·· ····· ·· ·· ····· ······

~:: w~~~~::: ::::: : :: ::::::::::::::

~gi~~::ii~ ::':': :::::::~ ::::::::::::
··· ··· ····· ·· ····· ·········
··· ······· ·· ··· ···· ····· ·· ·····

~I~• • • • • • • • • • • • •

..... .. .. .

t

1,787
1,986
5,795
894
23,221
9,152
8,776
9,163
5,726
1,325
6,075
,2,642

1g,9~

10,641
5,397
2,287
8,243
1,856
3,269
222
. 2,885
4,115
817
24,917
2,653
1,821
22,943
3,465
2,328
27,758

197,159

Foreign Totals.... . ....... . ..... . ..
735,216
United States Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,226,604

43,018
603,213

.
438
196,721

12,759
283,642

Grand Totals..... . . . ... .. ..... . . .. 2,961,820

646,231

197,159

296,401

MEMBERSHIP TABLES.
The tables following, showing! the membership, net gain or net' loss,
and totals, are prepared not only for the Information of the members In
our own Grand Jurisdiction. but likewise for the Craft at large and others
interested. •
We believe there should be a sort of mutual understanding among
the writers of the Reports on Correspondence-that the work of preparing
these tables be left to some one of the writers and thereby relieve any
others from the laborious task of compiling a corresponding report.
The preparation of such statistical tables requires much labor and
the Grand Secretaries and Grand Recorders should endeavor, as far as
possible, in compiling their data for the printed Proceedings, to Include
information needed in preparing these figures, such as a plain showing
of the membership the previous year, the present membership, the net
gain or net loss, the number of c hartered bodies on the rolls the previous
year, number revoked or surrendered, number chartered, and the present
number on their rolls. This Is a simple statement, easily prepared, but
of ines timable value to the one who prepares such tables a s are herewith
submitted.
The writer of this report Is ready to receive any nominations and
is perfectly willing to relinquish the work In favor of any brother who
desires to compile these figures.
ALBERT K. WILSON,
Committee.

,

2,105
2,509
2,388
8,730
512
2,883
3,983
2,679
4,774
6,341
929

9

603,213

Grand
Comd'y

1~~~~1~~~-l ·~~~-1-~~~

g~~~e&~t~~:pr~rt~~i>·o~di~~i~8. ·.:: : : : .~·.2~.6:~~~. 60~:~~~ .. ·1·9·s:~~~ . .. ~~~:~~~.
Gen . Gr . Council Subordinates . ..... . 1-.-.-.-.-. .-.-.-.-. 1 -----l---l-,0-6--I---~~
Gr. Encampment Subordinates ... .... ..... . .... : : : : : : : : : : .... , . ... , ' .. "1',6ii '
Total Membership, U.S. A .. ..... . . . 2,226,604

Grand
Council

2,244
9,343
Alberta . .. ... . . . .... , ... .... . . . . .. . .
1,742
8,975
British Columbi!i. ... , . . .... , . . ..... . .
.... ii,65i .
20,624
80,920
Canada . . .... ... ..... . ..... . . . ..... ,
Chile ..... . ... .. .. . ... .. .. .. . . . .. . . .
Costa Rica, C. A .. .. . , , .. .. . . . .... .. . .. "1'0',933. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Cuba . . ....... .. ............ . ...... .
400 •000 · · · · · · · · .. · · · · · · 438 · · · · · 4',io8 ·
England ...... ... ..... .. ... . ........ .
England and Wales . ...... . .. . .. .. . . . . .. . 28,905. . ....9.,588. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .
Ireland . .. ..... . . . .... ... .... . . ..... .
8,369 .. .. .... .. .... ... .... .. ..... . .
M!~{{;~: Pr~~i~~~s'. ·.: : : : : : : : : : : : : : '. : : · · · · ·1·,oi8'
Mexico (York Grand Lodge) . . .. ... . . . .
. ... " 863.
3,983
New Brunswick . . . ... . .. . .. ..... .. .. .
913
27,983
New South Wales ........... .. ...... ,
1,862
15,026
New Zealand .. . .... ... .. . ........ , . ,
1,809
8,133
Nova Scotia ... ..... . .. .... .... .... . .
Peru ... ..... ..... . ............... .. . . . .. 4',i07'
Philippine Islands ... . . . ..... , . , .... . .
930
Prince Edward Island .. .. ... . . . , . , . . . .
2,000
Puerto Rico . . ... ... .. .. .. .... .. . . .. .
10,068
Quebec ... .. ... ..... . , .. . , . . . .. ..... .
2,600
Queensland .. . . . ...... , .... . , . .... , . .
Salvador, C. A..... .. , .... ,, ...... .. . ..• '1 0',i74.
Saskatchewan . . .. , .. . , .. .. .. . . .. . .. . .
69,745
Scotland . .. . ... . .. . , , . . . . . ... . . , . .. .
7,109
South Australia . .... .. , .. , .. , . ..... ..
2,073
Tasmania ................ , . . ..... . , .
18,334
Victoria . . . . .. .. . , .. .. . ..... . . . .... . .
4,488
Western Australia . . .. . .. . . . . ........ .

Prepared by R:. W.'. ALBERT K WILSON, Kansas Correspondent
February, 1921
Grand
Lodge

Grand
Chapter

283,642

t General Grand Council Subordinate.
t Grand Encampment Subordinate
-,r See Massachusetts ahd Rhode Isl;,,nd.

I

New Hampshire.. ..
New Jerecy .. :.. ...
New York ... . ... . .
North Carolina ... ·{

Manchester.. . .. . . .. . . . . . .. 1903
Burlington.. ... . .... .. . . ... 1898 ·F~ii: ·2s:i92o
Utica ... .. . . .. . . .. . .. . .... 1893 Mar. 31, 1921 263
189 324,758 .88 252,726.79
. 50 13 .00 ... . . • 137,075.27 8,258 .59 559 . 13
Oxford . .. . . . .. . . . .. . .. .. .. 1872 Oct. 31, 1920 ....... 422 151,480. 73 152,340.66 ... ... 10.00 ... . . •. . . . . . .. . . . 12,362.08 228 .96
Greensboro.. .. . . . . .. . .. ... 1914 May 31, 1921
30 . . . . . . . 24,206 .98 13,669 .38
.50 1.00 .... . .
1,250.00 . .... .... . 366. 00
74 284,763 .93 171,878 .43 1.00 ... .. . .. . ... 267,180. 97 .... . . ... . 559 .33
Ohio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Springjjeld. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897 July 31, 1921 144
Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . Darlington . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 1910 Jan. 31, 1921
14
96
51,388 .37 50,561.12 .. . ......... .. .. . ... . , . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . 322.82
Pennsylvania . . . . . . Elizabethtown . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913 Nov.15, 1920 297
48 378,446 .73 327,969 .52 1.00 20 .00 .... . . . . .. .. ... .... .... ... 615.96
236
66,663 .56 .62,532 .13} 1.00 . ..... 5 .00 111,500. 15 .. . . . . . . . . 257. 53
Tennesilee ... .•... { Nashville (M. W. di: 0.) . .. •. }1892 Jan. 18, 1921 236
Naehville (Old Masone) ... ..
Tens. . . . . . . . • . . . Fort Worth (Orpbana) . . . . . . 1899 Sept.30,1920
24
265 270,606 .55 190,739.35 1.00 . . .... . . . ... 67,000 .00 7,691.49 348.16
Arlington (Widowe) ..... .. .
.90, 10.001 ·· · · · ·1 29,715 .001 1,899.00 ... ... .
Virginia .. .... ... .. Richmond . . . ... . . . . . ..... 1890 Nov. 30, 19201 ··· · . . . 1 102 145,022 .38, 40,098.971

···5i·· ·· ·32·· ·1.-8.007:98 ·51.194:54 ··i:oo ·io:oo :::::: ·109:500:00 ·:i2:3si:29:: :::::

0

z

tl

1in
t>1

I

;:=.n:::::::: h~=·:: : : : :: : : :: ::: :: : - ~~~~- -~~~--~'.19~~ . . ~.. . . .. ~ .. . ~'.~~:~~ ..I~'.~~~:~~ ... :'.~ - ~~:~: : : ::::: : : : :: :: : ...7'.~:0~ 1.~:~
·
In addition to the above, the Order of the Eastern Star maintains BePBl"Jlte Homes in Illinoie, Iowa, Nebraska and New York, and the Royal Arch Masona maintain•
one in Texas.
·
'
The above figures are taken from information given direct by Grand Secretariee, or from t he last publiehed proceedings, recent enough to be of value.
It ebould also be remembered that practically every Home in addition t-0 the income received from the per capita taJ:, baa other resources.

::r:::r:::r:o~oooommt:it:lt:lt:ln
nnn
o u;· -· ,... :Z- ,... ,... '"1 ,... 0:. I» c: s= <> <> 0 O O 0 0 c ,.
3 a ~ ~ ,. § s; ~ § ~ ~ ~ E. ~ ~- ~ .... .... 3 3 er ::s
" ..., ,. ..,. 0 0. 0. 0. 0. O> ~
>:>I t1>
3· ~ ,_. ,. . , 3 3 ml g
m\ '<
~
Ul
t:d ::z. ::i
~ C"I>~ ::S "d ~ 'w" ~ t'tl
,,... I t:i ....
: ~ ,.
a:: o g (fl .,<:
~ ~ ml g ~o::snm.,.
iil e. a s::: i
.,.,.,_
n Q
.... "'0.1"'"
~ ~ ~ i O ri ;:;· ~ ;:;·
i»
er O ,...., ~ ::s O. ~ I
i
en
"1
:.
•
rD
tb
~ """
C1>
""
::::S
-·
-· ~ 0
:
o ~ ~ ~ ! ~ ~ ~ tl)I
~
~ n n t-t o o a. ~
e.
-·
"'
:
:
-·
:
rp
:r' :
::s ,. 0 0 ~ ... n :
n £ , l
i ~ l i ~ g
~· i Cl. :;i::1 ..., ~ I ~l
:!l ~ i i \ l l \ ~ ;:;·
l ~ ~ .g § !!
~
\
'"1

""

00

r

f""'f'"

;J

p:i

I.I "

nnn~>>>
0>
lio- O ,... p.. n

:r'

~- :;. 5. .g ,;- ~ ~-

a £. -·~ ,.tit" 5. . ., ;;.·
~ in·
s =·
i!
3 ;;- "'
_ ..
~
;:;•

'11

~

O

p:i

m S "

~
;
~
i ~·
: & :

::!. -·

l1Q

.......

~

-·

()

~

Hi ~I kl~f: !H~~I l bl ltl .i ~
;.. . - :.n - • ::: ""oo :::: ;.... -:0
~ ~· N ~ t

<.n N

'-"

9 N

C.>
N

C.>
,.....

-N ;..... . :::

-,... N
'-" 0

i:5 R3 ~ N 9 0

•

-

-

~<(fl
w::i::i~::i::io~~~~~~oz~s:::
,,,. 0 ~ '"ti c:: s 0
0
!?. c: c: a a ::t" ~ ~ ::ll ,. ., -· :
~ ~
:; g :;I ~- g . ;:! ~- ~ g: ~ ii ~- c;·
~ ~ o .:l
n>
~
~·
,... Q... ~ - · - · n
~ 0.
n> n
o..
...... ., 3 ~- t1> ;:;· ,.
g
c
-·
., -·
~ ;;1 o,. :s
-· :I ;
~ o.. r.n ~ c.
~ n
g o E· :r - £ ~ I
a ~
<..,,_g,
tlll
.,,.,:;::soqO;;;"<b,_..;m..., :
" n,,.
.. .,.... .,.,
""" n- c~ ,. -·
m
m
c: I ., .,
""' ,. c:o. .,.,
""" ,.
.... ....
I
><! r" !s:; i
t1> ::::
0
! t1> - · i
e_ !7 t:1 m i n O> i
,. i Ill ! ~ 3 er if ; m g i 0 ::;; ""' t1> O i !» "' i
..+

;:;·
l1>

tn

;,

tn

(')

..+

:

~

i

,

0-

f

~

~ ~ 2. !

:::!".

g !

:::
'-"

~-.... -

'

,...
'-" '-l

'-"

(5'\ N

N~

~

0

~s:::s:::s:::~
~~
-· ,. ., ~ ., : ' < m
~- &.
~
;;1 g.. l !! ::;
:s ::s :::r - · : ,..,.. fa>

~

~~~

~~N~o:. .

~

:

(')

~

~

l:3~8~~~&5~=~9~~:::::~

-· ., 3 : iiQ" ::s
~
n ~ f&) i
~ ~
<>lw
::s:tt.
g- . ",....,' "., ~
::.- o. .' o::s n
o
m .., < O
b:J i
·0 ~ ;:;· !" O i O ml
'1
Q... <'b
~ 'l ....-.

~

Z,,

8
~

~
c::: -I:tXl
"O
t--c
0
.....
ztj
ti.·J

;;;" oq
r.n

~~:::::~~

>rj

00

(')

....l
...,
00

i\11 \t f \ \ \Hnf\ U~HlllH.
en

0

»

N~

l>l

z

Q
,.,

~

-~

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONOENCE

I NDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED
Alabama....................2, 8, 16, 20. 24, New York. .............7, 12. 86, 89, 106
. 27, 41, 61, 76, 81, 84, 92, 101, 104 North Carolina......,...46, 57, 86, 106
Arizona .........:....................80, 84, 104 North Dakota......············-··············
Arkansas ........................................ 84
..12, 26, 29, 49, 58, 74, 86, 90, 106
<;:olorado................. .4, 28, 56, 84. 105 Ohio ···················-·-·······-···········1'3, 87
Connecticut... .2, 8, 22, 45, 65, 84, 93 Oklahoma ................ 13, 26, 58, 74, 87
Deiaware ..............:...........5, 8, 84, 105 Oregon................................49, 87, 106
District of Columbia....8, 16, 20, 33, Pennsylvania......................13, 50, 87
37, 62, 65, 84, 88, 91, 97, 102, 105 Rhode Island '....................42, 68, 87
Florida...............................:................:.
South Carolina ....... ~..........................
........3, 9, 20, 33, 72, 80, 82, 84, 103
..............7, 13, 18, 30, 35, 62, 83, 87
Georgia................................ 5, 9, 21, South Dakota ..................40, 87, 106
37, 41, 48, 76, 82, 85, 91, 93, 104 Tennessee......................14, 69, 80, 87
Idaho...........:..........................9, 25, 28, Texas....7, 14, 36, 43, 50, 58, 87, 90
41, 45, 47, 77, 80, 85, 91, 94, 105 Ut;,ih..............................15, 30, 87, 104
Illinois ................................................
Vermont.. ........c...... ............. 18, 87, 106
....3, 10, 25, 45, 47, 66, 73, 85, 105 Virginia..............................................
Indiana........:...................10, 38, 85, 98
7, 15, 18, 26, 30, 40, 59, 70, 75, 88
Iowa ................................................ 85 Washington....15, 32, 60, 80, 88, 106
Kansas ...............:......... ;:~.~--'············lO, West Virginia..15, 27, 44, 52, 00, 88
22, 33, 42, 45, 53, 77, 85, 89, 94 Wisconsin............44, 51, 61, 71, 88
Ken~t~cky................34, 73, 8~, 89, 92
Wyoming............................15, 88, 106
Alberta ............................................ 37
Lou1s1ana ···················--········-······"'·
........ 10, 32, 39, 42, 63, 80, 85, 105 British Columbia........................:.....
Maine ..............................:::.39, 80, 85
....:...25, 28, 31, 52, 65, 81', 92, 101
Maryland....11, 21, 35, 42,, 80, 85, SXJ Canada ..................:.......................,... 33
Massachusetts ................................
M:mitoba........................29, 48, 81, 95
................22, 31, 35, 39, 55, 85, 99 Nova Scotia......................12, 90, 106
Michigan ..........................66, 85, 105 P. ·E. Island..............................81, 106 ·
Minnesota ..............:...... :.. 10, 86, 105 Quebec..................................13, 50, 74
M!ssissippi......................6, 17, 86, 95 Saskatchewan....................69, 81, 106
Missouri .............. 11, SS, 67, 86, 105 New South Wales..................68, 104
Montana.............. ll, 25, 86, 91 , 105 Sou th Australia.·-············'············· 1,3
Nebraska....................................11, 29, West Australia..............8, 24, 36, 75
42, 46, 49, 55, 56, 77, 80, 86, 105 M.exico..,..................:......................6, 46
Nevada ......................12, 80, 86, 106 Philippine Islands ...................... 13
N ew Hampshire ..............23, 86, 106 Ireland ............................................ 66
New J ersey............35, 56, 67, 78, 86 Porto Rico ..............................81, 106
New· Mexico....................................
Puerto Rico..............................81, 106.
..................6, 23, 49, 57, 80, 86, 106 England .......................................... 93

'

· INDEX- 1921
A

.

Page

Accounts~Report of Committee on ·······························:············................553

Report of Finance Committee on................ ~.................................~sa
Adams, Charles Albert-Report on Masonry in Mexico....................392
Admission to Masonic Homes-Rules for ............................................54?
Alphabetical list of Lodges ...........................................................•............•.,.692
Amendments to proposed By-Laws approved......•...................-.........:......443
Amendments to Constitution-Home Funds, Sec. 41............................650
Refreshments, Sec. 89..........................................:.......................,.,587, 652
Return of Fees on death of petitioner, Sec. 127............................006
Courtesy work, Sec. 155........................................................443, 586-587
Annual Oration ........................................:........,..............,.............,...:........•......588
Approp,riations ....................................................:................................................657
Argonne Lodge-Dispensation for formation of........................................442

B
Bakersfield Board of Relief ..................................................................553, 607
Ballot-Unworthy use of ........................................................_........................423
Beardsley, Frank M.-Appreciation of services ............................-........412
Benjamin Franklin Lodge-Formation and charter ··:·................:...441, 645
Berkeley Lodge-Reimbursement for ......:..................................:................(i62
Biography of Grand Masters-To be printed ............................................553
Bittancourt, J. M.-Expelled ~.........................................................:...............613
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for ..............:................. :..............'...........657
Grand Master's commendation ............................................................421
Reports of-Bakersfield ...........................:............................................553

~~~1~n;el~-~•.::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~;~:

Sacramento ......................................................................................557
San Bernardino ...................................................... _......................558
San Diego ...........................................".............................................55S
San Francisco ................................................................................559
Burials by Oakland Board of Relief ................,.....................................:...:.555
By Sacramento Board of Relief ........................................................55?
By San Francisco Board of Relief ...................~..'......................-....560
Business-Use of word "Masonic" in •··-·········································..........654
By-Laws-Report of Committee on ..........................................................607

ii

INDEX

INDEX

c

Page

lit
Page

E

Cahuenga. Lodge-Formation and charter ........................................442, 645
Capital City Lodge-Formation and charter ..................................4,38, 645
Cash receipts of Grand Lodge ..............................................:....:..................447
Of Masonic Homes ...............................................................................448
Charters-Report of Committee on.......................................................:......645
Chin-Greetings to Grand Lodge of ......................:......:............................649
Clandestine Masonry-Grand Master's Remarks on........................421, 654
C.hase, R. A.-Committee on By-Laws................................................377, (JJ7
Junior Grand Steward ..........................:...........................................665
Presentation of Gavel by to Grand Master..................................666
Clark, Willard-Committee on Grand Master's Address............435, 458
Committee on By-Laws-Members .................................:............................377
Report of .......:.................................:...........:....- ......................................607
On Charters-Members ...:.....................................................................377
Report of ................................................:.....,...................................645
On Grand Lecturer's Report .....:.......................;..........,,.........:.471, 664
On Grand Master's Address ......................................................435, 458
On Grand Secretary's Report ....................................................457, 459
Standing, members of ............:.............................................................667
Constitution-Amendments to ............................................586, 606, 651, 652
Cornerstones laid ........:..........................................,................ -................446, 465
Correspondence-Report of Committee on ..............................................656
Courtesy Work-Relative to ....................................................................443, 586
Credentials-Report of Committee on..........,..................:...'........................562
Cupertino Lodge-Formation and charter ..............................:.....441, 645

Ecuador, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition................................649
Eden Lodge-Petition for concurrent jurisdiction................................606
El Segundo °Lodge-Formation and charter ........................:.......440, 645
Employment Bureaus-Appropriations for ..................:.........................657
Los Angeles, report of .......................;.....:....,................................c....554
San Diego, report of ........:................................ ~...................:..............559
San Francisco, report of ....................................................................562
Endowment Committee-Report oL.............................................................618
Endowment Fund-Condition of........~ .........................................................488
Gifts to ...:.:.............................................................- ...............................478
Lodges committed to raise million dollars ...................:...........:..624
Expulsions .................................................................,....................:.............613-614

D

Gee, Edgar F.-Grand Chaplain pro tem....................................................376
Prayer at opening of Grand Lodge ................................................377
Gift of Jewels by Grand Tiler ...........:........................................................375
Grand Lecturer's Report ........................................................................464, 664
Grand Master's Address ...............:.....................................................'..............37a
Arbogast Fred raising of son ...........................:....-......................384
'
' use of.,.....................................................................
'
_.422
Ballot, unworthy
Beardsley, Frank M., Commendation of..........................................412
Biography of to be printed..........................................................~ .........553
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus ........................ ..421, 657
Boquets to Brethren.............,..........................~ ......................................-434
Business concerns operating as Masonic................................419, 654
Clandestine Masonry ....................................................................421, 654

Daughters of Masons-Status of Adult .....................~ ..............................655
Daum, Charles H.-Expelled ..........................................................:..............614.
Decisions of Grand Master ........................,.....,........,..........................426, 602
Degree Teams-Report on ..........................................................,.....:..............655
Dinsmore, T. R.-Committee on Charters ......................,.....:...........377, 645
Disbursements of Grand Lodge ..................................................................449
Dispensations issued by Grand Master ............:.:..................................;..444
Donations to Masonic Homes ...................................,...........,......478, 491, 526
Drake, F rank B.-Committee on Grand Lecturer's Report... .....471, 664
Dual Membership-Resolution to permit............................................586, 652

F
Faber, Dr. Harold K.-Appreciation oL.........................................413, 552
Report by of survey at Covina Home .....,......................................550
Fees-Return of on death of petitioner.................-...................................606
Finance Committee (See Reports of Committees) ......:.................:.......656
Fischer, Will H.-Committee on Charters ..............:.........................377, 645
Flagpole on Temple .....................,.............................................................656, 663
J;"rancis Drake Lodge-Reimbursement for ............................................660
Fremont Lodge-Formation and charter ............................................438, 645
F~nds of Lodges-Expenditures for refreshments ........................587, 651

G

Iv

INDEX

INDEX
Page

H

Decisions ................................ ,'...:.....................................................426, 602
Inspectors, appreciation of..................................:............. :...................418
Island Lodges ·························································-·····························384
Masonic Homes ..............................................................................:.......410
Masonic Service Association ..........:.................................386, 460, 650
Necrology-John P, Jarman........................................................381, 625
Edmund E. Knepper ._. ............................................................382, 629
Granville D. Warren ..............................................................382, 628
Portrait of ordered ................................................................................658
Public Schools week. .............................. :............................................. .432
Rumors, and their evil tepdencies ....................................................422
"Side" organizations ....................................................................423, 654
U. C. Masonic Club ...................................................................,..413, 647
Visitations ..................................................................................................433
Visits for special purposes ....................................................................383
Wollenberg, Charles· M., raising of son ........................................384

Hamilton, Charles 0.-Committee on Charters ........................................377
Harbor Lodge-Formation and charter ..............................................439, 645

I
Illinoistown Lodge-Reimbursement for ....................................................661
Imperial Lodge-Duplicate charter issued..................................................442
Inspectors-Deaths of........................................................................................470
Grand Master's appreciation of................................................... ,......418
Island Lodges-Grand Master's reference to ............................................384
Status of Past Masters..........................................................................651

J
Jansen, Hans P.-Grand Treasurer pro tem:..............................................376
Jarman, John P.-Eulogies in memoriam................................381, 470, 625
Jewels-Gift of by Grand Tiler ............................c... ............................. ....... 375
Joppa Lodge-Formation and charter.................................................440, 645
J urisprude'nce Committee (See Reports of Committees) ....................602

Grand Officers for 1921 ........................................................ :........... ~ .......374, 665
Present at opening of Grand Lodge ................................................376
Grand Orator-Annual Oration ....................................................... :..............588
Change in Functions proposed............................................................652
Grand Organist Emeritus-Appointment of..............................................661
Grand Secretary's Report ............................................................,.....................437
Amendments to By-Laws approved ..................................................443
Cash receipts for 'the year ....... ,..................................................447, 448
Constitutions, printing of ....................................................................443
Courtesy work. .................................................................. :.............442, 586
Disbursements ........................................................\.............. :.................449
Dispensations issued ..............................................................................444
Imperial Lodge, duplicate charter issued........................................442
Life memberships reported ...........................................................,....444
Masonic Homes revenue ...................................................................... 437
Membership of Lodges ........................................................................437
New Lodges, names and location ....................................................437·
Relief Fund, condition of................................. ~................... :................449
Special Communications of Grand Lodge ......................................446
Statement of degrees conferred in the year ....................................442
Trial Records ....................................... .'..................................................445

K
Keesling, Francis V.-Eulogy by, John P. Jarman ................................625
Knepper, Edmund E.-Eulogies in memoria~ ........................ 382, 470, 629

L

Grand Treasurer's Report ............................................................,.................436
Greeley, Charles B.-Committee on Charters ....................................377, 645
Grievances, Committee on (See Reports of Committees) ....................613
Guatemala, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition ........................649

v
Page

~

'I

Lachmund, Ralph H.-Song by......................................................................6()1)
Lambert, Charles G.-Committee on Grand Master's Address ... .435, 458
Lebanon Lodge-formation and charter............................................437, 645
Life Membership proposition ...................................................................... 586
Life Memberships reported .................................................................... 444, 607
Lodges-Alphabetical List of.....................•..................................................692
Charter,ed at this iCommunication ...............................:........................645
Constituted during the year.................................................. :.............465
List of extinct .........................................................................................683
List of in the jurisdictton..................... ,. ........., ...................................669
Location of .......................................•..............! . .', ..................................702
Los Angeles Board of Relief....................................................... .,.........554, 657
Loveland, Harvey D.-Orati~n of..................................- ..............., ..•...........588

·vi

INDEX

INDEX

M

Page

·Magnes; Irving-Committee on Grand Lecturer's ReporL.........471, 664
Marin Lodge-Reimbursement of ...:..........:.......:....................... ~.................661
Masonic-Use of word in business .........................\ ........................419, 654
Masonic Club at University of California ................................413, 647, 659
Masonic Education-Appropriation for ....................................................662
Report of Committee on......,.......................................,............................609
Of Committee on Policy .......................:....................................653
Masonic Homes-Admission, rules for ....................",....:..............................547
Bodily afflicted, c_a re of .......................:............................................-..475
Buildings, new, at Covina...................................................:................473
•New, at Decoto, propos_e d................:.........................................473
Building programme adopted ................•...........................................473
Cash receipt~ and disbursements ..............................................447, 483
Children admitted in the year.,............................................................518
Departed in the year ........"...........,..."....:............:·:.,............-......:.......518
Names of, at Covina ...•..........:.:.......:.....".............".......:...;.............Sr~
Commendation of helpful brethren................................:.....___ ,,.....479
Daughters of :M;asons-status of Adult...........:................................655
Deaths at Decoto......................................................................................5()1
Donations to the Homes.................................................... :.........491, 5.26
Endowment Fund, condition of..........................................................488
Finances, amendment to Constitution proposed........-..................476
Gifts to Endowment Fund,...................................................................478
Grand Master's remarks concerning........,.......................................410
Income and expenses ·......:..............:........................................:...........~
Library, books wanted.......................:....................................................476
Matrons, resignation of .......;...............................................................475
Moving.pictures, attendanc~ at exhibits of ..............:.:................,..621
Per capita cost ..........:......:....................:...........................,.:.:...............487
Per capita tax for ........................:.:..................~.: ........................-.......659
Report of Dentist . ...........;..........................~.: ........................~ ...............51'0
Of Farmer .......................................:..................:..:..-........-.....::.:.......514
On Manual Training ............................:......,....:...........................512
Of Physicians ..•......:...::........".........".............:...:.,....................509, 515
Of Secretary .............................................................:......................480
Of School ..................:.............................. ~............:.......:....................511
Of Superintendent, Covina .-:...:...........:...............::•...:................503
Of 9uperintendent, Decoto ............,...:.......................................490
Of Trustees......................................................:.......................-...•....472
Printing of Summary oL........................:...:..::....:..:......:...........477, 659
Request that brethren visit.....·.............................................................477
Resignation of Superintendent, Covina......,...................................472

vii
Page

Residents, names of, at Decoto....................:........,...: ..........:.............498
Rules for admission......................................,...........- ............................547
Summary -of cash statement.................................,,,............-..............485
Survey, mental and physical, Covina...:..................~......................".550
Visits to by Friends......................:........................................".....:.:...,.:.519
Masonic Service Association-Report of Committee on................460, 650
Grand Master's observatfons.....·...........................................................386
M asonic Temple Association...........:........................................................585, 657
Mayer, Samuel D.-Appointed Grand Orgariist Emeritus..................661
McKevitt, Hugh K.-Presentation of jewels by........................................375
M~mbership of Lodges........................,..............................................:..............6(/J
Memorial Services-John P. Jarman........................ _..................................62S
_Edmund E. Knepper .............................................•.......................•........629
Granville D. W arren.........................,..........................................:.........628
Mexican Masonry-Grand Master's remarks on....................:.................387
Report of Past Grand Master Adams.....,.......................•..............392
Meyer, Adolph M.-Expelled!..................................,........................................614
0

Mileage allowed .Representatives..:......:..............-···-·········· ..·························562
Mixter, Frank W.-Committee on By-Laws............,.................,.......377, f!J7
Mount Olive Lodge-Formation and charter....................................440; 645
Moving Pictures of Homes-Attendance at exhibits of......................621

N
Namces, Frank A.-Eulogy. by, Edmund E. Knepper ............................629
North Star Lodge-Reimbursement oL...........:.........................................662

0
Oakland Board of Relief ........................................................................555, 657
Officers. of Grand _Lo.~ge-Election oL ........:·····························:················665
Since organ1zaf1on ....,...................:.........................................................688
Oration, Annual-By Harvey D. Loveland...,.."............................................588

p
Pajaro Lodge-Reimbursement of....................................,...........................661
Palms Lodge-Formation and charter ......::............:.........."..:............441, 646
Past Masters of Island Lodges, status of................................,...................651
Pay of Members-Report of Committee on...........................................:....631
Perkins; George C.-Telegrams to and from ..................................457, 602

viii

INDEX
Page

Point Lodge-Formation and charter.............:....................._.............439, 645
Policy and General Purposes-Rep,ort of (See Reports of
Committees) ....................................................................................647
Portrait of Grand Master ........................................•.....................,................,658

Q
Queensland, United Grand Lodge of............................................................649

R
Receipts for Dues-Visitors to exhibit ..............................................602, 663
Recognition of York Grand Lodge accorded ....................................410, 647
Chili .................................................................................."........... ~.........,.....649
Ecuador ························'··················································:..........................649
Guatemala ................................................................................................649
Queensland, accorded ···········································::::······························649
Refreshments-Expenditures permitted..... ~ ..................................................651
Relief Fund-Condition of...................................................................:............449
Reports of Committees-On Accounts...........................................:............553
On Charters ....•.........................;....... ~ .............................'................:.......645
On Credentials ..........................,..................................................!..........562
On Endowment ....:.......~ ...........'..................... ~ .......:...............:........•........618
On Finance-Accounts, examination of...:...............................:......658
Berkeley Lodge, reimbursement of ..........................................662
Boards of Relief, appropriations for ........................................657
Employment Bureaus .........................................:...:......................657
Flagpole on Temple ......................................................................663
Francis Drake Lodge .................................................................:660
Grand Organist Emeritus .......................~..................................661
Illinoistown Lodge ................................... J••••••••••••••••••••••••••,•••••••••661
Marin Lodge ········~·····················;....................'....................•......;....661
Masonic Education ........................................................................662
Masonic Homes, per capita tax for ........................................659
Masonic Temple, purchase of stock of....................................657
North Star Lodge ...........·...................................~ .....:..................•662
Paj aro Lodge ..............................:..............:..................................661
Portrait of Grand Master ...............................................;..........658
Salaries of Grand Officers....:.......................................................658
Summary of Report of Masonic Homes................................ _659
U. C. Masonic Club ····-······················- ····················-·······.;.......·..659

..

I

r

INDEX

ix

.

Page

On Grand Lecturer's Report ....................:...........:..:..:..........:.~ ...:.:....664
On Grand Master's Address .....................................................:..........458
On Grand Secretary's Report .................~ ....:...................................459
On Grievances-Omnibus Report ..................•.....................................613
Trial Record No. 280, A. G. M. expelled...........:.......... ~ .....~.:.614
Trial Record No. 285, judgment reduced ~.............................617
Trial Record No. 246, E. H . C. restored ................................616
Trial Record of ]. C. H., petition for restoration denied....615
Trial Record No. 292, Wilshire Lodge, reversed ................614
Trial Record No. 271, C. H. D. expelled................................614
Trial Record No. 284, J. M. B. expelled ..................................613
] urisprudence Committee-Bakersfield Board of Relief............607
Decisions of Grand Master........:.......................:.........................612
] urisdictional Invasion ...............:.........................:............431, 605
Life memberships approved .............. .,......................................007
Lodge Funds, stock subscriptions ....................................428, 604
Petition of Eden Lodge for concurrent jurisdiction ............606 .
Petition, sponsor for cannot withdraw name ................431, 605
Residence of unmarried seafaring man ...............•..........429, 604
Resolution or motion, when in order............................427, 602
Return of fees on death of petitioner......:...............................606
Second ballot after rejection may not he taken ............430, 605
On Masonic Education ..........................................,..............................609
On Pay of Members .......................•...............................:...........:,...·......(i31
On Policy and General Purposes-Clandestine Masonry............654

g:~~e~~~~:hi~···::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~

Ecuador, Grand Lodge of .....................'......: ..............................649
Expenditur<;s for refreshments ........................c•• ••, ••••••••• •••••••••••651
Grand Lodge of Chili ...............................c••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••649
Grand Orator, change of functions oL ...............................652
Guatemala, Grand Lodge of......................................................649
Home Funds, Sec. 41 of Constitution ..................................650
Jurii;diction;tl Disputes ..................................................................653
Masonic Club at U. C....................................................:............647
Masonic Education ........................................................................653
Masonic Service Association ......................................~ ...............650
Past Masters of Island Lodges ························'···················'·651
Recognition of York Grand Lodge ...........- .............................647
Side Organizations ........................................................................654
Status of Adult Daughte"rs of Masons....•.................................655
United Grand Lodge of Queensland.....:....................................649
Use of word "Masonic" in business... :.......... c•..•••••••••••••••••~ ...•••654
On Returns of Loc\ges ..............:....,............................................:.............634

INDEX

INPEX

xi
Page

Page

w

Report of Grand Lect.urer .....................,................................................. ,.164, 664
Of Grand Secretary ......................,.........._....._.....................:................437
Of Grand Treasurer ..........................................................................'....436
Of Masonic Temple Association ...............................:........................585
Representative Fund-Tax for this year ....................................................633
Representatives present, names of,................:....................,......,....c••••••••••••••562
Returns of Lodges-Report of Committee on.. :.......................................634
Ritual Committee--:-On proposition to require visitors to exhibit
receipts ············-.·······························-··············································'663
Ritter, Dr. Arthur ].-Appreciation of...........:.....................:....., ......41J, 552
Report of Survey at Covina Home.:················································550
Riverdale Lodge-Formation and charter............................................438, 646
Roosevelt Lodge-Formation and charter..............................,,..........439, 646

Warren, Granville D.-Eulogies in memoriam ........................382, 470, 628
Waste, William H.-Report on Masonic Club U. C.....................414, 647
Watson, Frank G.-Gift of jewels by........:............................................:..375
Webster, Bradford-Eulogy, Granville D. Warren..............................!...628
Westwood Lodge-Formation and charter..............:....................... ..439, 646
Wood, Robert L.-Eulogy, Edmund E. Knepper....................................629
Wood, William E.-Committee on Charters......................................377, 645
Wright, Theodore M.-Committee on By-Laws..............................377, 607
On Grand Lecturer's Report......................:.................,.............471, 664

y
York Grand Lodge-Recognition of..................................................410, 647

s
Sacrc1mento Board of Relief ...........•....................................................557, 657
S_an :J3ernardino Board of Reljaf... ..................- ,..................................558, 657
San Diego Board of a.elief....................................................................558, 657
San Francisco Board of Relief... .........:...............................................559, 657
Schools, Public-Proclamation for promoting welfare ........................432
Seaside Lodge-Formation and charter..........................................:.439, 646
''Side" Organizations................................................................................423, 654
Silver Cord Lodge-Formation and charter....................................
646
Social Purposes-Expenditures permitted............,.............:...............587, 651
Souza, A. F., Jr.-Committee on By-Laws........................................377, (:1.)7
Standing Committees-Personnel of. ...........................................................667
Stockton Lodge-Formation and charter..........................................438, 645
Sunnyvale Lodge-Formation and charter........................................441, 646

•

4.io,

T
Teams, Degree-Report of Committee on.................................- ...............655
Trial Records filed, and action thereon ................................................445, 613
Tuttle, Char'.es K.-Committee on By-Laws....................................377, 607

v
Verble, Henry E.-Committee on Grand Master's Address ...... ..435, 458
Visitations of Grand Master..........:.........................................................433, 465
Visitors- Requiring exhibit of re.ceipts..................,.............................602, 663

I

