GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNll\

ELMER WILSON HEALD
GRAND MASTER OCTOBER 18 . 1963 - OCTOB ER 16, 1964

The Ninety-Eighth Grand Master of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge, Free and Accepted M asons of the State of California. and of
the Lodges in our new S tate of Hawaii has, during his term of office
from the fall of 1963 to the fall of 1964. endeared himself to his Brethren
in this Grand Jurisdiction. He has fully obeyed the ancient injunctions
to "be a good man and true" and " to work diligently. live creditably.
and 'a ct honorably by a ll men ...
Elmer Wilson Heald was born on January 7, 1885, in Marshal
County, Kansas ..and was brought to Santa Cruz County in California
when he· was a small boy fi ve years of age. At Santa Cruz he attended
public school, the Branciforte School. The fam ily moved to Palo Alto
and Elmer attended Palo Alto H igh School, and upon his graduation
from that high school became a student at S tanford University.
Upon his graduation from Stanford he taught school for two years
in a rural school in Idaho, and thereafter enrolled in the Stanford School
of Law, graduating therefrom with the Deg ree of Doctor of Jurisprudence in 1916 .
. He served his country in two world wars, in the first W orld War
serving ·in France and Germany. He entered the army as a private and ,
when discharged at the close o f tha t war, it was as First Lieutenant.
During the second World W ar he served as Lieutenant Colonel in the
California State Reserves.

ELMER W. H E ALD
G rand M aster
October 18. 1963 - October 16, 1964

· After the close of the first war he opened his office for the practice
of law in Calipatria and soon became City Attorney of tha t city. In
1926 he was elected D istrict Attorney of Imperial County and was reelected to that office at three successive elections. I n 1942 he was
appointed Judge of the Superior Court of the S tate of California in and
for the County o f Imperiai, and was thereafter elected three times to
continue as Judge of that C ourt, serving for 21 years as such un til he
retired on June 1. 1963. to devote his whole time to the work incumbent
upon him as Deputy Grand M aster, and Grand M aster.
Judge Heald and his wif~. H elene, raised a family of grown sons.
who have every affection for their parents, as well they may have.
H e became a Master M ason in El Centro Lodge N o. 384 on F ebruary 16, 1920; and, after serving seven y ears as an Officer of that
Lodge. became its Master in 1943 a nd again served as Master in 1947.
He is a member of the Imperial V alley York Rite Bodies, serving
lmper~al V alley Commandery as C ommander in 1962. He is a lso a

2

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

member of the Scottish Rite Bodies of San Diego and Imperial Counties
and has been honored by election as Knight Commander. Court of
Honor. by the Supreme Council. He is also a member of the San Diego
Conclave. Knights. Red Cross of Constantine.
1This man and Mason is one of whom our great Fraternity may
speak with the utmost pride. Not an act has he ever done to bring disrepute upon our Brotherhood. In no instance has he failed to do what
should be done to strengthen the endeavors of his Brethren to honor
the Craft. His Brethren say to him,
"Thank you. Worshipful Sir. for your devotion to the Fraternity,
as well as to all whose lives you have touched."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3

I, EDWARD H. SIEMS. Grand Secretary of the M.'.W.'. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California. do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one hundred fifteenth
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday. the 12th day of October, A. L. 5964, and terminated on Friday,
the 16th day of October, A. L. 5964.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this second day of
November, in the year of Light,
five thousand nine hundred and
sixty-four.

Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

'P ROCE EDIN GS

of

THE M:.W :.GR AND LODGE ·
of

J1rrr auh Arr.ept.eh -asuns
OF THE
STA TE OF CALIFO RNIA
AT ITS

l l 5TH ANNUA L COMM UNICA TION
HELD AT THE
CITY OF SAN FRANC ISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12 A.O. 1964, A.L. 5964
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16 A.O. 1964, A.L. 5964
Copyright 191>4 by Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
Printed in the United States of America. All rights in this book ore reserved.
No port thereof may be reproduced in any manner whataoever without written
permi11ion from the Grand Lodge of California, except that quotations may
be embodied in reviews by such other Grand Jurisdictions os hove been
recognized officially by this Grand Lodge. For information oddre11 Grand
S.Cretary, 1111 California Street, San Francisco, Colifornio 94108.

5

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

7

ONE HUND RED FIFTE ENTH
ANNU AL COM MUN ICAT ION
The Most WoMhipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Mason s
of the State of California commenced its One Hundr ed Fifteen th Annua
l
Communication in the California Masonic Memorial Temple on Octobe
r
12th A. L. 5964, at 10:00 a.m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:

OFFICE RS OP THE GRAND LoDGE
M.·.w. ·.ELM ER W . HEALD •...... : ..•.•.••..•........•... •.•.•..••..

...•••Grand Master
R.·.w.· .THEO OORE MERIA M •.•........ .•......... .......•. .Deput

y Grand Master
Grand Warde n
R:.W:. LAuRE NCE E. DAYTO N •.......... .••....•... .....• Junior
Grand Warde n
v.·.w. ·.PAU L A. PFLUEG ER •....•....•....•...... ........... ......•..
Grand Treasu rer
V. ·.w.·.E DWAR D H. SIEMS ~--··················· ··················
····Grand Secret ary
v.·.w.· .DoNA LD G. CAMPB ELL ••......... ........... ...........
•..••Grand Lectur er
V. • .R. ·.LESTE R E. BoND •.•.••..... ......•..•• .....•.•...• ..•...•...•
•••Grand Chaplain
w •.".CLAR E B. CAMPB ELL ........... ........... • Assist ant
Grand Lecturer
W.".HA RO\.D N. RlcHAR DS ........... ........... • Assist ant
Grand Lecturer
W. ".ARTH ,UR J. KAHN •.......... ........... ....... Assist ant
Grand Lecturer
W. .WALL ACE H. FISKE ........... ........... ... Assist ant
Grand Lectur er
W. ·,ROBE RT A. CRIGLE R ........... ........... ... Assist ant
Grand Lectur er
w. ·.w. BEN SORRELLS •.......... ........... ....• Assist ant
Grand Lecturer
W. ·.EUGE NE S. HOPP ·······-···································
···--Grand Orator
w:.VE RNE w. HENDR IX ........... ........... . Assist ant
Grand Secret ary
w:.NoR BERT P. TESTER ........... ........... ............ ....•.••
Grand Marshal
w.· .JOSEPH S. ROBERTS ........... ........... ........ Grand
Standard Bearer
W.".GE ORGE P. CALDER WOOD ........... .... : .........•Grand
Sword Bearer
W.".ED WARD L. KELLAS ........... ........... ........... ....•Grand
Bible Bearer
W. ·.WARR EN J. BLOF-IS ETH ........... ........... .....•Senior
Grand Deacon
W. .}AMES EDWAR D WELLE T ........... ....•...... ....fanior
Grand Deacon
w:.J. KENNE TH SAVAGE •................•........••..Senior Grand Steward
W.".W ILLIAM McKEN NON WHITM AN ........Junior
Grand Stewar d
W.'.Rlc HARD A. BLECH SCHMID T ........... ........... ...•Grand
Pursuivant
W.".HA ROLD MUELL ER ••...••.... ..•........• ..•..•..•.• ••.......•
Grand Organist
W. ·.DAVID WRIGH T ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........
.Grand Tiler
R:.w:. MvRO N E. SMITH •.••....... ....•...... .......•... ...Senior

0

0

8

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
PAST GRAND OFFICE RS
PAST GRAND ·MASTERS
M.'.W.'. LEON 0. WHITSELL
M.'.W.'.L ESLIE E. WooD
M.'.W.'. JOHN R. MOORE
M.'.W.'.EDWARD H. SrnMs
M. ·.w. ·.ELLswoRTH MEYER
M:.w:.L oms c. DRAPEAU
M.'.W.'. FRANK HARWELL, JR.
M.'.W.'. HENRY
CLAUSEN
M.'.W.'.E DGAR v. STEWART, JR.
M.'.W.' .L. HAROLD ANDERSON
M.'.W.' .LEo E. ANDERSON
M.'.W.'. PHIL N. MYERS
M.'.W.' .JoE L. SHELL
M.'.W.'.A LPRED F. BRESLAUER
M:.w:. GuY B. M1zE
M:.W.'. IRA W. COBURN

c.

PAST GRAND LECTURER
V.'.W.'.E LBERT w. DAVIS
One thousand four hundred sixty officers and represen tatives from
683 Chartere d Lodges and six Lodges under dispensation, 1211 Past
Masters, and 32 distingui shed guests from other jurisdictions were
reported as present. The Most Worship ful Grand Lodge was opened in
ample form, following which the Flag of our Country was ·received.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

9

APPOI NTMEN TS
The Grand Master announc ed the following appointm ents to flII
committee vacancie s:
On Jurisprud ence - Samuel Shenk.
On Policy and General Purposes - Robert B. Watts.
On Finance - Jam es E. Hammon d.
The Deputy Grand Master announc ed the appointm ent of Niles
O. Millar as Chairma n, Basil R. Gillett and James E. Wellet as members
of the Committee on Distribution.

TELEG RAMS SENT
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretar y to send an appropriate telegram to each of the absent Past Grand Masters.

TELEG RAMS RECEIVED
The Grand Secretar y reported having received telegrams of con~
gratulati on from the following:
Dr. Mauro Baradi, Past Grand Master of the Philippines,
Grand Guardia n Council of Californi a, Internati onal Order of Job's
Daugpte rs,
Bethel No. 118, El Centro, Internati onal Order of Job's Daughte rs.

10

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DEVOTIC)NAL SERVICE
"GOD IS EVER YT HING "

of people today, God is one who does not count, or at least One who
does not matter very much.
Now then, turn for a moment, if you will to the Bible, and look at
the contrast of attitude, that we find toward God in this Holy Book.
This little library of Scripture, which contains almost every kind of
literature, was written by over a hundred authors. and it covers a period
of over a thousand years; however, it was made a single UNIT by just
one fact which can be expresse d in just two words ... GOD MATTERS! And the very first four words in the Bible give us the key to all
of it namely. "IN THE BEGINN ING GOD."
We have no science, as such, in the Bible, but when "Holy Writ"
mentions such things as those with which science now deals. it tells us
that GOD created them and owns them! The heavens and their contents,
the earth and everythin g in it, the sea and everythi ng in it, are all called
upon to praise Hi's Holy Name!
Listen to these typical sentences from our Bible. "The heavens
declare the glory of God." "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness
thereof." "The sea is His and He made it." We have splendid poetry
in the Bible, and drama and myth and legend and parable and biograph y
and prophecy, but, all of these are simply instruments to make men
realize just one thing ... that GOD MATTE RS!
We have history in the Bible, but even accuracy does not matter
to the writer as much as the desire to show the Hand of God at work
and that God Matters! The Bible concludes with the strange dreams of
a visionary. and some of it is as hard to understa nd as some modern
paintings. However , shining through it over-all is the authority of God
reigning for e~r and ever, that God really Matters. forever!
Now then, so many men have given that all up, and they seem to
act now as though God did not matter at all. They have substitut ed
man instead and they do not mean it even at Christma s when they sing
"Glory to God in the highest." For with far more sincerity and meaning
they could sing "Glory to man in the highest," for them man is the
master of things. And, my friends, you know just as well as I do, that
deep down in the hearts of so many men today, that is what they really
mean ... "Man is the master of things."
There is an old Danish fable which tells how a spider slid down a
single filament of web from the lofty timbers of the barn and establish ed
himself on a lower level of living. There he spread his web, caught flies,
grew sleek and prospere d. And then, one Sunday afternoo n, while wandering about his premises, he saw this thread that stretched up into
the dark unseen above him and thought . . . "How useless!" So, he
snapped the thread and immediately his web collapsed and soon he was
trodden under the foot of man. And you know, my .friends, I feel like
saying to you this morning with all the power I can get from GOD,
that the curse of modern life today is man's decision, that God does not
matter, that man can manage by himself, and that man is the master of

THE VERY REVEREND LESTER E. BOND, B.A., M.A., B.D., D.D.

Grand Chaplain
Most Worship ful and Members of the Grand Lodge:
I want to express my apprecia tion to Elmer Heald and to all the
officers of this Grand Lodge for the joy of one of the happiest years of
my life in serving as your Grand Chaplain this past year. Our Grand
Master has endeared himself to me as one of the grandest of Masons
and finest of men I have ever known. I would also be remiss if I did not
publicly thank Past Grand Master Joe Shell for suggestin g my name to
?ur Grand M?ster and also to Brother Ben Salmon for putting the idea
mto Joe Shells head. I was raised in the Third Degree of Masoney in
Hattiesb urg, Mississippi, in 1918. Since then, there have been many
marvelous opportunities for service in Masonry but this past year has
topped them all.
.~nasmuch as our common denomin ator in Masonry is "belief in
God and because our eyes and more particula rly our ears are always
alert to men and especially young men who express a belief in God; and
inasmuch as our Fraterni ty in Californ ia and all over America is in dire
need of increasing its ranks numerically; it therefore seems to me as I
have tried to face this problem these past months, that at least one of
our basic needs in Masonry todaiy is for each one of us to rethink and
face again our attitude and beliefs concerning God.
It is for this reason that I have read for you this morning from the
ninth chapter of the Acts of the Apostles and I would especially call your
attention to verse four where Saul raises the question: "Tell me, Lord,
who are you, and what will you have me to do?"
Let me remind you flrst of all this morning that only about sixty
percent of the populatio n of the United States are affiliated with any
Church, Protestan t, Catholic or Jewish and in about the same order.
However , on any given Sunday with the possible exception of Easter
and Christma s, we would find less than twenty-five percent of that
membership attending a service of worship.
Furtherm ore, it is generally estimate d that fewer people read their
Bibles today: and fewer people pray today with any sense that God
really matters. To be sure, there is a sort of polite, conventional, recognition of God, similar to those who would nod to one another across the
street. Or, who would talk about Santa Claus in front of a child who
still believes in Santa Claus. But, even those who admit God's existence,
seem to regard Him as a remote, impersonal and vague entity, far
removed from the life of the world. In any case, for the great majority

11

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

thing6. "lnvictus," if you please, "I am the captain of my soul." The
man who wrote those words committed suicide.
. In very fact, . th~ most terrifying and sinister thing about modern
life today, is that life 1s organized around man instead of being organized
around God. And, the real truth is, that when we try to do without God
we too, collapse! When we cut the thread that holds us in living touch
with the UNSEEN above us, we fall, and then, we too collapse! Indeed!
GOD MATTERS! God matters as air matters to our lungs. And you
~ho a~e sensitive must have already heard the choking of men, suffocat!?g with .!ear and bewilderment along with the hectic hurrying in this
rat race of men today, simply because they are trying to do without
<:7~· The assertion that "God IS" alone makes sense out of life and
hvmg tod~y. And the assertion that "God RULES," alone gives purpose
and meaning to life today or any day.
Now then, let me remind you very bluntly that "the world exists lor
God and not us." The world was created to fulfill His purposes and not
OUl'S, save as we cooperate with Him. You cannot even bend God's laws
to merely fulfill our selfish ends. Therefore, it seems to me to be so very
clear and lo~ical, that if the world was created by God for His ends
· · · then, His ends are the only ones that it will finally serve. What a
queei;,expression we sometimes use, when we talk about "breaking God's
laws. We say sometimes of a man who ignores the requirements of the
body or mind, that he has broken the laws of health. On the contrary,
the laws of, health have broken him! His condition proves it. You cannot
break Gods laws, bu~: you can be broken by defying His laws. Mr.
Ch~terton once said, If you walk to the edge of the cliff and then keep
straight on .. you do not break the law of gravity, you simply prove it."
My .friends, we should know and remember that law runs through
every !'~rt of the Universe, the physical. the psychical, the moral and
the spmtual. This very fact, you see, makes it a Universe, instead of a
Multiverse. Miracles do not give evidence of broken law, but they do
demonstrate the possibilities of law and its wealth of complexity. Yea
they point to the existence of laws we do not yet know. You see, if
miracles were the breaking of law, that very fact would then be a very
poor compliment to the wisdom of Goel, who apparently had overlOOlked
all of the possibilities which the original creation of law should have
covered. It would be as though God said to Himself, "When I made the
world, I never reckoned with such a possibility as this, now I must work
a miracle to put things right again." No indeed! Listen! No one ever
breaks God's laws!
For example, no one ever sins (which means defying a law of
~od) and gets away with it. For always there is the comeback, either
~n c~nsequences _to body, mind or soul; either in illness, or sleeplessness,
m bitter memones, or in haunting fears. Always! Forgiveness, to be
sU1'e, restores relationship to God, but it does not obliterate all of the
consequences of the sin, NOT AT ALL!

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
13
Law reigns! This is God's signature on all things, for law is created
by God. No man ever made or created a law of mathematics. He merely
discovered a law already there. The fulfillment of the discovery of a long
list of mechanical, chemical and physical laws have resulted in atomic
energiy today with all of its ramifications. But God created this marvelous
energy eons ago. You see, we merely discover the way God works, and
we call it law, but it is His law and not ours. Always His! Yea, verily.
blessed are they who learn in time that "fulness of life" is for him who
on all levels of body. mind and spirit, cooperates with the laws of God.
So, I ask you, does God matter, really? Let us consider those who
really want a better world in which to live, and in their own field are
sincerely working for it. The point I would like to make is illustrated
by a group of men who were invited to a very important dinner. After
the meal the men found that they had been invited because they were
supposed to represent various fields of endeavor, so, they were each
called upon and asked to say, how by their personal efforts the world
would be a happier place in which to live.
A scientist spoke first, but I ask you my friends, does science have
the secret of happiness? Of course we would not blame the scientists,
but their science of nuclear energy has made the world more terrified
with its atomic bombs and hydrogen bombs than it was before the
Romans landed in Britain fifteen hundred years ago. So, I ask you, must
we call this progress of science, and does it make the world happier?
Then, a medical scientist spoke of the effects of newly discovered
drugs, and I remember that in America in 1956, eight years ago, it was
reported that thirty million prescriptions for tranquilizers were used
compared to just ten million during the previous year, and I am told
that it has increased in that proportion ever since; and that the barbiturate consumption in Great Britain in 1961 averaged 24 doses per
person for every member of the population of Great Britain and Ireland.
A psychologist spoke next about analysis for everybody. Well,
knowing that a thorough examination takes around two hundred hours,
we can almost pass that one over. My personal experience in trying to
help people in the Church is that a mental patient usually waits for
weeks for an appointment. and then is lucky to get an hour once a week
and that will often be interrupted. Add to that the cost of it and •you will
see that anlysis for everybody is just impossible.
And then an educationist spoke as though the kingdom of happinese
could be found in learning. But, my friends, I have not found that university students were any happier than high school young people, have you?
In fact they are not as happy. Go to a high school football game next
week and see for yourself.
And then, a sociologist spoke about the people living in Upper
Suburbia or on the other side of the tracks, being happier than the
people living down town in the city. But, by-and-large, my experience
is that the rich are much less happy than the poor, although, of course,
if you are rich you can be very miserable with your comforts.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Now, as regard ing the politicians. Who said it was just a matter of
changi ng the government? Studde rt Kenne dy oSaid a few years ago:
"When you change the government, do remember that you
only take out one lot of sinners, and put anothe r lot of sinners in."
Now then, and more seriously, hear the words of Profes sor Toynbee, who is perhap s the greates t historian of our day. I had the blessed
privilege in 1951 of spendi ng two days with Profes sor Toynb ee
in his
home in London. Toynb ee has written the most profou nd historic
al
work of our time. And, at the end of ten volumes of historical survey
.
he says this:
"The entire story of man on earth has no meaning at all except
a ·religious meaning. There is no hope except in the vast increase of
spiritual religion."
And then Toynb ee says anothe r very profou nd thing:
"The world. " he teHs us, "has known twenty -one civilizations.
and out of this twenty -one, fourteen have already disapp eared.
THEY WERE INSTR UMEN TS WHIC H GOD COUL D NO
LONG ER USE!"
So what? Well, my friends, if you will, let this one story sum
it all up.
An Americ an airman was shot down and landed in the Pacific
Ocean near a South Sea Island, to which he made his way by swimm
ing.
He then crept into the bushes to hide. And no wonde r, becaus e
within
the living memory of many of us here this very day, he would have
been
capture d by the savage s, boiled and eaten. But, NOT NOW
! The
soldier was found by the natives and cared for, his injuries treated
, and
he himself was nursed back to health.
This young soldier wrote home to his parent s and in his letter he
said that he "had never been much of a Christi an and had regard ed
many
church-going folk as hypocrites, but now," he said, "I have seen the
real
thing."
"And listen," he said, "in that Island, once cannibalistic, where dark
orgies were indulg ed in and sorcery was practiced: where dirt
and
disease abound ed: where men and women had lived like animals,
there
had been a marvelous transfo rmatio n."
Before that airman left the Island, he had an interview with the
Chief, during which he was told that there had not been a murde r during
the Chief's lifetime. There was no Jail. There was no poverty
, no
drunkeness. no divorce, no venereal disease, no brothel s and practic
ally
no disease. He was told that there was one doctor in the Island,
"but,"
said the Chief, "he spends most of his time fishing." Orpha ns
were
prompt ly absorb ed into other homes AND honest y was taken
for
granted!
And my friends, this is not a made-u p story. Not at all. The name
of the writer of that letter is available. But, in any case, this is the
point.
When that young airman asked the Chief how he accoun ted for
this

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

15

wonderful state of affairs, the Chief looked reproachfully at his
white
guests and said, "You ought to ·know, your a~cestors sent u~ missi,c;>
naries, we are ChrioStian, and we have taken Christ and God serious
ly.
My. Oh my, my friends, when will we ever in this frightened, fevered. bewildered, selfish and materialistic West, ever begin to take
GOD
,ujous ly?
We used to, you know, and not too many years ago right here
in
America! Our first hospitals were founded by monks and ministe
rs.
And the Christi an spirit permea ted the hospitals then. But now, no
one
would raise any objection if a surgeo n were an avowe d atheist or
if a
registered nurse were an agnostic.
And, not long ago, our schooloS were ALL church schools or at least
they were admini stered by Godly leaders, but nowad ays your
child
· may be taught by an atheist and you may never know it or care
less.
Our dramas were nrst played in the Church es. There was a time
when you could not be an actor, unless you were a religious person
,
because all the plays were religious in charac ter. But today, drama
and
religion very rarely 90 togethe r.
Great music was at one time set to religious words. When the soul
of Hande l was burstin g with g:reat music, the words he used to expres
s
it were taken directly from our Bible. Just think of Hande l's "Mess
iah"
and also his "Elijah "! But, I ask you, what great composer today
would
choose ·religious words to go with his music?
The world' s greates t paintings had religious subjects to enhanc
e
their beauty . Just think only of the many great pictures of the Madon
na!
And our .Courts of Justice were held in the Church in the early
days of America. And the bar to which the barrist er was called was
the
communion rail, and that is why in ou:r courts today they call it the
BAR.
Yes, indeed, back then, the whole of life was organiz ed around
GOD!
But now, it is organi zed around man. And seemingly, God does
not
matter very much any more!
Now then I know of course, and you do too, that we have better
hospitals and better schools and better theatre s and better Courts
of
Justice today. But, my friends. we have almost severed the th:read
that
runs up into the Unseen! And, I say to you that it is a very vital thread.
AND, IF it i.g severe d entirely we too shall fall and our web of life
will
disinte grate. Howev er proudl y we hold up our heads today, they
shall
each one be bowed before God at the last, and the proud West will
pass
into the limbo of a forgott en civilization, just like Babylon, and Greece
and Rome and Egypt and all the rest of the fou:rteen of them that
Toynbee mentioned, in his Histor y of Civilization.
Now, then. just let me conclude with this parable.
Toscan ini, the world famous conductor, was a very exactin g and
almost tyrann ical directo r during rehears als. He once rehears ed
the
Ninth Symph ony of Beethoven with an orches tra. First, it was practic
ed

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THh

piecemeal. each group of instruments alone. then together. and
then at
full concert strength. Finally, the rehearsals were over, and
at last the
great and flnal performance was over; and the flrst violinist leaned
over
and said to the second violinist, "If he scolds us after that,
I will be
tempted to jump up and push him .off the stage. "
But, the great Toscanini did not scold. He stood silent, his
arms
still outstretched, his deep eyes burning with an inner flre.
There was
the light of a great raptur e upon his face and a spirit of utter
contentment enfolding him. And then, after a very long silence he spoke,
"Who
am I? Who is Toscanini? Who are you? I am nobody, you are
nobody"
. . . and the great hall was hushed, as they waited in awed
silence.
Finally, with a light upon his face as one who had seen a vision
he said:
"Beethoven is everything! Beethoven i·s everything!''
Well, my good Brother Masons, let me ask you a question ...
Does
God matter? And allow me to answer it by saying to you that
... NO
ONE ELSE MAT TERS , NOTH ING ELSE MAT TERS
!
Listen, my friends, NOTH ING ELSE MA TIER S, because
GOD
IS EVER YTHI NG!!!
And let me add very quickly, if you can only ·remember one senten
ce
in all that I am trying to say to you tbi.s morning, remember
this and
ponder over it again and again:
Outsid e of God, there is nothing but death!
Outside of God, there is nothing but death!
And I haven 't forgotten the text, here it is again, and it
is the
logical question for you and me, as it was for Saul when
he too &rst
discovered that God was everything. "Lord, what do you want
me to
do? Lord, what do you want me to do?"
And if you keep asking that question sincerely, you will get
the
answer as every man through the centuries has received the
answer,
even though you may have to be blinded like Saul for three days.
Some of you will get the answer by being urged to go throug
h the
respective chairs of your Lodge and teach other men these
mighty
lessons of brotherly love from God. Other s may be directe
d to share
in the life and service of your respective churches. And I can
envision
not a few of you who will feel that the most important service
for you
is to get with a group of DeMo lay Boys and exemplify before
them
your belief in God, or perhaps as the Scoutmaster of a Troop
of Boy
Scouts or a Sunda y School teacher.
My fi:iends, it is my conviction that the call of God for men
in his
service is even more needed this very day than it was in the
days of
our forefathers. May God, the Great Architect of the Unive
rse, the
Make r and Ruler of all worlds, Our God, who is Everything,
give to
each of you your needful supply of the corn of nourishment
, the wine
of refreshment and the oil of joy.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

17

GRA ND MASTER'S MESSAGE
ELMER W. HEALD , Grand Maste r

Welco me my Brethren, Maste r Mason s all, to this the One Hundr
ed
Fifteenth Annua l Communication of the Grand Lodge of Califo
rnia.
The California Masonic Code provides in substance the duties
of the
Grand Maste r appertaining to his Annual Messa ge as follow
s: "To
present. at each Annua l Communication a written messa
ge, therein
setting forth all his official acts during the year, exhibiting the
general
condition of Maso nry within the jurisdiction, and recommendi
ng such
kgislation as he may deem necessary or expedient for the
welfare of
the craft." I shall endeavor to comply with this mandate of the
Code and
present my message as briefly as possible and at the same time
encompass therein everything required.
The year of every Grand Master, I am quite sure, resembles
that of
every other Grand Maste r in at least one respect. It seems that
you are
no sooner installed in office than you are called on to record
the accomplishments of your year. This has been a busy year. Your Grand
Maste r
has traveled thousands of miles (proba bly upwar ds of 90,000
miles),
visited and appeared at many Masonic Districts, Boards of Relief,
Masters and Ward ens Associations, Past Maste rs Associations,
and other
Masonic groups and associations. In addition thereto he has
also conducted numerous ceremonies, including cornerstones, dedica
tions of
Masonic Temples, constitutions of new Masonic Lodges, institu
tions of
U.D. Lodges, and also has attend ed many official receptions.
Appro ximately flfty sp~ial communications of Grand Lodge have
been held
during this Masonic Year in every section of the State of Califo
rnia. A
complete list of these events, ceremonies and special comm
unications
has been set forth at the conclusion of this message.
COND ITION OF THE CRAF T
As indicated, your Grand Maste r has traveled thousands of
miles
all over the Grand Jurisdiction of Califo rnia and visited other
grand
jurisdictions and has met and spoken to thousands of Maste
r Mason s.
We have been most pleased and greatly encouraged with the
wonderful
spirit exhibited by Maste r Mason s everywhere, a spirit of enthus
iasm,
dedication and devotion to our great Frater nity. Of course
there have
been many problems involving every phase of Masonry.
One universal problem has been that of membership, lack of
attend ance at Stated Meetings and the inability or failure to attrac t young
men.
During the year 1962 our Grand Lodge gained 896 new memb
ers and
tluring the year 1963 the gain was 252 new members. This year,
196i,
oar Grand Lodge has gained flve new members. At flrst
thoug ht this
ma-y appear to be a rather discouraging record; however, almos
t every

18

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

grand jurisdiction in North America has lost members during this year,
1963-1964. The Grand Jurisdiction of California is one of the few which
have been able to report any gain in membership.
We have endeavore d to implement several programs to build up our
over-all membership and sincerely believe that this effort has resulted
in preventing a report of a loss in membership in California. It is most
interesting to note that many of our individual Lodges have been gaining a substantial number of new members during this year while our
Grand Lodge over-all gain was very small, and the great majority of
other grand jurisdictions were showing substantia l losses.
Viewing our Masonic Jurisdiction as a whole, it is our flrm belief that
Mason·ry in the States of California and Hawaii is in a most healthy
situation and making real and substantia l progress toward a great
Masonic future. We are really doing something about our problem and
are in reality becoming a "working fraternity ." What is encouraging is
the g·r eat body of individual workers. This is what it takes to make a
successful grand jurisdiction - each individual Mason doing his part in
the Lodge of which he is a member.

.confidence. This material information was carefully studied ~nd com·1 d by the Commission and a preliminary report was flied with Grand
E,dge in July, 1963. Thirty thousand copies of this report were distributed to the membership.
Later your Grand Master, on May 15, 1964, sent out a request to
every Lodge in this jurisdiction to report what action had been taken to
isnplement the Commission's report. Replies were received fro~ almost
ery Lodge in the jurisdiction. Th~se rep~ies were made av~ilable to
~e Commission for further study prior to its final report. It 1s not my
intention in this message to cover the work of this Commission or to
give a comprehensive report thereof. This will be done by the Chairman ,
Brother Robert B. Watts.
As you will hear, when the Commission's report is read, it requests
that its existence now be terminated. It further reports on the highly
gratifying degree to which the variou~ Lodges have .a~eady ~d~pted
and put into practice many of the solutions suggested m its prehmmar y
report. We wish to say that the renewed interest and activity of the
Craft have been obvious and most reassuring as we have made our visitations throughou t this Masonic Year. The Commission, however, does
not conclude its review of the opinions of the membership without a
strong call for further action in problem areas which it regards as critical.
As stated in the Commission's report, "There remain, however, problem
areas of g·rave concern in respect to which increasing effort must be made
for the strength and health of the Craft. These areas include, among
others, the achi.evement of better leadership for many of the Lodqes.
the development of more meaningful education in the great spiritual
truths which undergird the dignity and purpose of the individual in
relation to the Universe, the proper support of youth activities to combat
the lowering moral standards throughou t our State and an increased
activitiy of the Craft in meaningful public ceremonies and observances."
In the further words of the Commission, "To abandon these areas is unthinkable," and with that conclusion we agree most emphatically. It
is, therefore, our opinion that the responsibility for definite action on
the problems set forth in the Commission's report should be implemented
by every Lodge in the Grand Jurisdiction of California, and that every
Master Mason individually assume his responsibility in bringing about
a successful concluson of this comprehensive report of the Commission
on Masonic Practices.
In concluding our remarks we offer our most sincere praise and
thanks to every member of the Special Commission on Masonic Practices. The Fraternity owes them an affectionate expression of gratitude.
On behalf of the whole Fraternity we express our sincere thanks
and deep appreciation to Junior Past Grand Master Ira W . Coburn for
his foresight, courage and devotion to Masonry in setting up and creat-

SPECIAL COMMIS SION ON MASON IC PRACTIC ES
Junior Past Grand Master Ira W. Coburn created this Commission
during his term as Grand Master. It was charged with the basic duty
of ascertaining from the Master Masons of this jurisdiction what the
true problems of Masonry were as viewed from their standpoin t. From
the responses received, it appears that the various suggestions presented
in the Commission's report have received substantia l support from the
constituent Lodges and have been put into practice by said Lodges.
These suggestions, among other things, include action in beginning
and ending meeting·s on time with a carefully worked out order of business; definite programs to locate, attract and bring sojourners into active
Lodge participation; the impressing upon all members of the broad areas
concerning which it is wholly permissible and appropria te to talk about
Masonry to non-members; real activity to improve the physical appearance of Lodges both inside and outside; a heavy increase in social activities, bringing the whole families of members into personal contact with
Masonry and those active in it, and the highly successful formation and
regular use of telephone committees to stimulate attendanc e at Lodge
affairs: a most determined and well planned effort to improve the leadership in all the Lodges throughou t the jurisdiction. The results attained in
all these matters have been most gratifying.
The Commission was strictly a fact finding body. In order to carry
out its mandate, a plan was devised to interview and question as large
a number of Master Masons as possible. Great numbers were interviewed and, by the use of questionnaires, large quantities of additional
material were obtained. All replies to the inquiries were held in strict

19

20

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

ing the Commission on Masonic Practices. In so doing he performed a
great and outstanding service to Masonr y everywhere.

convened on the eighteenth of June, 1964, in the City of Victoria. It was
bandied with extraor dinary dispatch and dignity. In two days' time they
bad concluded all of their Grand Lodge business, elected their corps of
officers and installed same. Again we were accorded the privilege of addressing the Master Masons of British Columbia assembled in their
,Annual Communication and it is our hope that fraternal relations be.tween these two Masonic jurisdictions have been Brmly established and
that visitations may be continued in the future by succeeding Grand
Masters. We had the privilege of becoming well acquainted with the
,.ewly elected Grand Master, Most Worshi pful James McKergow, and
1afs charming wife and we extended to them a cordial invitation to attend
our Annual Communication on October 12, 1964. It was most interesting
to note the predominance of the Scottish influence in the Masonr y of
this Grand Jurisdiction. It appears to be what one might term, "New
Scotland." British Columbia is a vast province, extending to Alaska on
the north and to Alberta on the east; encompassing the great Canadi an
Rockies, rich in timber, minerals, and countless lakes and rivers. It is
truly a great and promising empire, lying to the north of the State of
Washin gton. It is my sincere hope that the incoming Grand Master
will keep our fraternal ·relations warm, friendly and constant.
Reports from the Grand Jurisdictions of Arizona, Idaho, Montan a,
Nevada, Oregon and Wyomi ng, through their Grand Masters , indicate
that they were most pleased and delighted with California's interest in
their Masonic Jurisdictions. Your Grand Master was questioned by the
representatives of these jurisdictions concerning the possibility of forming a Wester n· S:onference of all the Pacific Coast and Rocky Mounta in
jurisdictions. Some discussions were held concerning the possibility of
such a conference but no definite action was taken. It is my recommendation that the incoming Grand Master continue with these discussions
and explore the advisability and possibility of such a conference. It
contains great possibilities for building a stronge r Masonr y along the
Paciftc Coast of North America and in my opinion it would strength en
Masonr y in this vast area of North America.

VISITA TIONS TO OTHE R GRAN D JURISD ICTION S
It is the belief of your Grand Master that our Grand Lodge should
do everything possible to keep in close touch and communication with
our neighboring Grand Lodge jurisdictions and, wherever possible, t.o
continue and improve our ties of friendship and brotherly love. This
has long been the policy of the Grand Lodge of California.
.
In keeping with this policy, Deputy Grand Master Theodo re Meriam
was commissioned to visit the Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of Nevada, Senior Grand Warde n Myron E. Smith was commissioned to visit the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Arizona and Junior Grand Warde n Laurence E. Dayton was commissioned to visit the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Oregon. The Grand Lodge of New York e~ected and is main.t~ining .a
Masonic building and display at the World s Fair. In our opinion this
is an outstanding contribution to Masonr y everywhere throughout the
world as thousands of people will be attracte d to and will visit this
Masonic Center. An invitation was extende d by the Grand Lodge of
New York to your Grand Master to be present at the opening of the
Fair and participate in the dedication of this Masonic Center. Becau~e
of the fact that our visitation to the State of Hawaii was set for this
same time, it was impossible for us to attend and Past Grand Master
and Grand Secreta ry Edward H. Siems was commissioned to ·represent
California at this most important event.
Your Grand Master had the great privilege of visiting the communications of the Grand Lodge of the State of Washin gton and the
Grand Lodge of British Columbia in Canada .
We were most cordially received by the Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of the State of Washin gton, Most Worshi pful Albert N. Bradford, and we were greatly inspired by the dignified and impressive manner in which this Grand Communication was opened and the expeditious
and businesslike proceedings thereof. We were accorded the privilege
of addressing the Master Masons of this Grand Jurisdiction and it is
our belief that Masonr y in the great State of Washin gton is in competent and good hands. Our visitation was a most enjoyable and pr?Btable Masonic experience and it is our hope that our fraternal relations
with the Grand Lodge of the State of Washin gton will continue to grow
and expand in the future.
Our reception by the Masonic Brethre n of the Grand Lodge of
British Columbia will long be remembered as one of the most cherished
and enjoyable experiences of our Masonic Year. We were most cordially
received by the Grand Master, Most Worshi pful H. Percival Rutter.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of British Columbia

21

STATE OF HAWA II
The Grand Master in his Bnal message in the September issue of
the California Freema son has set forth his views as to Masonr y in our
newest and Fiftieth State. We hope that you will have read this message as it expresses our thoughts and impressions of Masonr y in the
great State of Hawaii.
During the twenty-six days we spent in the State of Hawaii we
visited the Lodges on the Islands of Maui, Hawaii and Kauai. Each of
these Lodges, on what are commonly referred to in the State of Hawaii
as the neighboring islands, devoted three days to your Grand Master ,
ending with a banque t followed by an official reception. Each reception

22

PROCEED INGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

~as attended by the full membership of the Lodge and we were g·reatly

impressed with the spirit, enthusiasm and interest exhibited by the Master
Masons on these islands. Every effort was made to extend to the Grand
Master and his party the warm and friendly greetings of the entire community where these Lodges are located.
On the Island of Maui your Grand Master and Mrs. Heald were
accorded the rMe experience of riding on horseback down into the crater
of the great volcano Haleakal a. This was certainly a most unique and
interesting experience - one which we shall long remember. While this
may not have been a Masonic event, we were greatly intereste d in th.e
fact that the chief forest ranger and his deputy were Master Masons.
The seven Lodges on the Island of Oahu gave the Grand Master a
joint reception in Honolulu and each of these seven Lodges devoted
two days to the Grand Master and his party. On each of these days we
were taken to some particula r point of importance and interest to the
State of Hawaii and its Masonic Brethren . The host Lodge would also
entertain the Grand Master at a dinner, following which there would be
a formal !reception for the Grand Master. In this manner the Grand
Master was given the rare opportun ity to visit with all the Masonic
Brethren on the Island of Oahu.
In addition to these various functions the Grand Master was the
guest of Aloha Shrine Temple at a "Red Fez Luncheon." The York
Rite Bodies entertain ed the Grand Master at a dinner followed by an
official reception and the Scottish Rite Bodies also gave a dinner and
official reception for the Grand Master. We were profound ly impresse d
with the good will and fraternal cooperation between the Blue Lodges
and the concorda nt bodies througho ut the State of Hawaii.
Two of the most impressive occasions during the Grand Master's
visitation to the State of Hawaii were the laying of the wreath on the
monument erected over the battleship "ARIZO NA" and the placing of
a wreath on the tomb of the unknown soldier at the great military cemetery in the extinct volcano near Honolulu, known as the Punch Bowl
Military Cemeter y. These two occasions made a profound impression
upon your Grand Master and recalled the bravery, devotion and sacrifice of thousand s of American men and women who gave their lives
in defense of our beloved country. Many of the men in this great cemetery were of course Master Masons.
In the State of Hawaii there are of course many Master Masons,
too numerous to mention, whom we would like to thank. Everywh ere
the "Aloha Carpet" was rolled out for the Grand Master and party,
and we wish to thank all of them for the warm and fraternal welcome
extended to us.
We wish especially to thank the three Inspectors, Frederic k Bolte,
Charles H. McAllist er and William E. Poster, also Junior Grand Stew..
ard William McKenn on Whitma n, and all of the Masters and OfBcers

23

of the ten Lodges in the State of Hawaii for the never to be forgotten
)aospitality and kindness extended to us during our visitation.
GRAND MASTE RS CONFE RENCE
Your Grand Master attended the Grand Masters Conference of
North America held in Kansas City, Missouri, on February 20, 21 and
22, 1964. Upward s of one hundred Grand Masters were present at this
Conference, representing the Grand Jurisdictions of all the States of
the Union and the Provinces of Canada. Four jurisdictions were also
represented from Europe, including Germany , Italy, France and IS!'ael.
The Grand Masters Conferen ce is governed and conducted by the Conference Committee which sets up the rules and regulations and provides
the program for the Conference. Your Grand Lodge was represen ted on
the Conferen ce Committ ee by the Grand Master o'f this jurisdiction.
This Committee also selects a Grand Master who is to preside over the
Conference and act as its chairman. The Committee chose as chairman
of the Conferen ce Most Worship ful John T. Rose, Jr., Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge of Florida. The Conferen ce Committee also selects
and appoints the members of the Time and Place Committee, consisting
of five Deputy Grand Masters. Your Deputy Grand Master Theodor e
Meriam, was selected as a member of the Time and Place Committee.
It was the consensus of opinion of the Time and Place Committee that
next year's Conferen ce should be held in Washing ton, D. C.
It is my firm belief that this Conferen ce does much to strength en
Masonry througho ut all of North America. Here in this Conferen ce the
leaders of Ma~onry in the W estem Hemisphere meet together in a
spirit of true brotherly love and cooperation in that spirit which is
expressed in the Monitor and Officers' Manual. "By the exercise of
Brotherly Love we are taught to regard the whole human species as
one family, the high and the low, the rich and the poor, who, as created
by one Almight y Parent, and inhabitants of the same planet, are to aid,
support and protect each other. On this principle Masonry unites men
of every country sect and opinion; and causes true friendship to exist
among those who might otherwise have remained at a perpetua l distance."
Much interest was displayed by the members of the Conferen ce in
the Report of the Special Commission on Masonic Practices. Our Grand
Secretar y brought a large number of copies of this report along to the
Conference which were distributed to Grand Secretaries and Grand
Masters of the several jurisdictions present. Many copies of this report
have been mailed to the other grand jurisdictions and much interest has
been displayed in what California is trying to accomplish in our Grand
Jurisdiction.
SANTA ANA MASON IC TEMPL E ASSOC IATION
During the term of Ira W. Coburn as Grand Master complaints were

24

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

lodged with him concerning the operations of the Santa Ana Mason
ic
Temple Association. On November 14, 1962, Grand Master Coburn
directed the Chairm an of the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge
Finnancing to call a meeting or meetings of the stockholders, Board
of
Directors, and others concerned, for the purpose of reviewing and studying the corporate operations and financial status of the Santa
Ana
Masonic Templ e Association. This matter continued on through
Past
Grand Master Coburn 's year and over into the present Grand Master
's
term of office.
Six meetings of the Committee have been held with ·the Board of
Directors and stockholders of the Templ e Association. These meetin
gs
were held with the members of the Committee and the Grand Master
was
represented by Senior Grand Warde n Myron E. Smith. Interviews were
held with interested parties, documents were produced and examin
ed
and some seventeen recommendations were made by the Committee.
A
full and complete report will be flled by the Grand Lodge Comm
ittee
on Lodge Financing, reference to which is hereby made for all the details.
In its flnal report the Committee stated as follows, "It would appear
that great strides have been made to solve the problems which gave
rise
to this Committee's interest in the Santa Ana Masonic Temple" Associ
ation. The present Board of Directors are now actively engaged in cor·
recting any remaining problems and are to be complimented. It would appear
that no further action is requke d of this Committee or by Grand Lodge.
"
APPO INTM ENT OF GRAN D TREA SURE R AND
APPO INTM ENTS TO THE COMM ITTEE ON
RETIR EMEN T PLAN
On May 21, 1964, a vacancy occurred in the office of Grand Treasurer caused by the death of Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warre
n.
In his passing the Grand Lodge not only lost a great and valued Grand
Lodge officer but California Mason ry suffered the loss of a great
and
dedicated Brother. In accordance with the provisions of Section
132
California Mason ic Code, it became my duty as Grand Master to appoin
t
someone to flll this vacancy.
On June 16, 1964, Paul A. Pftueger, Assistant Grand Treasu rer,
was appointed to flll the vacancy caused by the death of Grand Treasurer Arthur M. Warre n to serve for the unexpired term. Brothe
r
Pflueger accepted the appointment and is now serving the Grand Lodge
of California as Grand Treasu rer.
Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warre n was also a member and
Chairman of the Grand Lodge Committee on Retirement Plan. It
was
my pleasure to appoint Past Grand Maste r L. Harold Anders on
as
Chairman of the Grand Lodge Committee on Retirement Plan to serve
out the term left vacant by the death of Past Grand Master Arthur
M.
Warre n, and also to appoint Paul A. Pflueger as a member of
said
Committee.

ORDE R OF DE MOLA Y
JOB'S DAUG HTER S - RAIN BOW FOR GIRLS
It is interesting and noteworthy that there is much concern generally
throughout our nation today in the youth of our country. The Grand
Lodge of California has not been unmindful of this situation and
has
provided specific author ity in the California Masonic Code for a wider
and greater participation of the constituent Lodges in the De Molay
Chapters tht"oughout this Jurisdiction.
In our travels and visitations during this Masonic Year we have
found great interest and activity on the part of our Masonic Brethr
en
in the work of De Molay. There are now some 280 De Molay Chapte
rs
in the Grand Jurisdiction of California, including the State of Hawai
i,
and it is my belief that Mason ry is becoming more and more aware of
the
tremendous latent possibilities for good in this Masonic youth movement. It is a golden opportunity to sell Mason ry to the youth of
our
Jurisdiction if we will but have the foresight, vision and courag
e to
seize upon it.
Included in our Masonic youth groups we must never overlook the
International Order of Job's Daugh ters and the International Order of
the
Rainbow for Girls. It was the Grand Master 's privilege to addres s
the
Grand Bethel of the International Order of Job's Daugh ters on June
26,
1964, at Long Beach, which was attende d by some 6,700 delegates
and
representatives of the Bethels of California and, likewise, he was privileged to attend the Grand Assembly of the International Order of
the
Rainbow for Girls at Long Beach on March 23, 1964, which was
attended by 5,600 representatives of the Assemblies of California, making
a grand total of 12,300 wonderful American girls whose lives are being
in8uenced and molded by these Masonically affiliated organizations.
The
dedication and devotion of the women and Master Mason s who
are
working with these girls is far beyond the icall of duty.
These organizations constitute a magni ficent opportunity for
Mason ry to perform a g1'eat service for the youth of our country and
in
so doing they will not only enhance and further the course of Mason
ry
but will be doing a great service to our communities, State and Nation
.
At this point I would like to pay tribute to the wonderful women of
the Easter n Star and other Masonically related women's groups who
are
devoting so much time to the work of these ilne organizations for girls.
I wish to state that in my opinion the women are doing a much better
job
with the girls in these organizations than the men are doing with
the
boys in De Molay. The devotion and dedication of these women to
the
character building work of these splendid girls organizations is something that the Grand Lodge of California cannot afford to overloo
k or
underestimate. They are entitled to our wholehearted suppor t
and
encouragement.
It behooves the Maste r Mason s of this Grand Jurisdiction to redouble

25

26

. PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

and rededicate their efforts on behalf of the Order of De Molay. It is a
great character building organization and every effort expended on its
behalf will return dividends far beyond our fondest hopes to the benefit
of Masonry in California and Hawaii.
I strongly urge the incoming Grand Master to make these three
Masonic youth organizati ons an integral part of his over-all program for
the ensuing Masonic Year. Thousand s of Master Masons are now devoting untold hours of their time and efforts to these three Masonic
youth groups and Grand Lodge should give them its support and assistance and to this end consideration might be given to the advisability
of expanding the De Molay Committee to include all of our youth
groups.
I further recommend to the incoming Grand Master that, in furtherance of this Masonic youth movement, a strong liaison be made with the
Eastern Star and White Shrine to the end that every effort be made to
utilize their willingness to help and assist in this most worth while effort
on behalf of our Masonica lly connected boys and girls.
SOJOUR NERS
Your Grand ,Master has made this a major part of this Masonic Year.

It is my belief that we could add thousands of new members to our mem-

bership if we could contact a major portion of the sojourners in this
Grand Jurisdiction. The exact number of sojourners in California and
Hawaii is not known. All we have is a very vague estimate. From the
number of new people flocking into this Grand Jurisdiction from all parts
of the United States and even foreign countries, it is quite certain that
the number of sojourning Brethren would run into the thousands.
In view of this situation your Grand Master placed special emphasis
on this program. A strong committee was selected and David H. Blakelock was appointed Chairman . This Committee has been working very
hard on this difficult program.
The sojourners. in many instances, have lost their contact with
Masonry and are hesitant to make themselves known to the Masons in
the community in which they are living. Many are hungry for Masonic
intercourse and fellowship. They wait for an invitation to visit and an
assurance that the examining committee will not subject them to an inquisition. However, thousands , if met with friendship and understan ding,
will affiliate with us and become fine outstandin g additions to our
membership, bringing with them a new enthusiasm and vitality to our
Grand Lodge. One of the greatest contributions which can be made to
our Fraternity will be to rekindle the interest of these sojourner s so that
they will become a part of our Jurisdiction.
We directed the Committee on Sojourner s to develop and dissemi~
nate a progcam that would implement a statewide effort to reach the
sojourner in every Masonic District in California. Letters of instructions

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

27

and suggestions were sent out to every Lodge. In addition, individual
committeemen made many personal visitations and rendered assistance
wherever requested.
The effectiveness of any program must of course be judged by the
results accomplished by the individual Lodges. In the long run, this
program can only succeed where the Masters of each Lodge enthusiast ically and energetically pursue the search for sojourners within the
jurisdiction of their own individual Lodges. In each instance where the
Master appointed an energetic and resourceful committee and carried on
the progcam offered the results were most rewarding.
Data received from scattered reports verify our past assumption that
large numbers of sojourners are now living in our Grand Jurisdiction.
Here is a vast reservoir of Masonic Brethren waiting to be developed.
The surface has been barely scratched. A full harvest is at our very door
if we will avail ourselves of it. We are of the opinion that the reason
why our Grand Jurisdiction is one of the few jurisdictions which is not
now reporting a loss of membership Is because of the work and effort of
this Committee. The Grand Lodge Committee on Sojoucners will in
due course make its report on its accomplishments this year.
Grand Lodge was very generous in making funds available to carry
on an effective program. Your Committee on Sojourner s has initiated a
constructive and workable program that will produce worthwhil e results
if energetically pursued by each Lodge. A great deal of interest has been
generated during the past year and positive results have been accomplished. Greater results can be achieved by providing added impetus
through wider P.articipation, incceased enthusiasm and hard work. Each
Lodge and each Master Mason must lend every support and effort to
this worthwhile program to make it work.
In conclusion, I wish to extend my sincere thanks to Brother David
Blakelock and all the members of his hard working Committee. They
have provided much groundwo rk which will be invaluable for the
future. It is my sincere hope that the incoming Grand Master will earl")'
on this most important program and, by so doing, I am confident that we
can reach an all time record in our over-all membership.
PUBLIC SCHOOL S WEEK
This year the theme for Public Schools Week was THE PUBLIC
SCHOOL -AMERI CA'S FUTURE . This set the stage for a dynamic
program throughou t the Grand Jurisdiction of California. The Committee on Public Schools Week, under the leadership of its Chairman, John
F. Porter, made this program an outstandin g success. During this year
we had the wholehear ted cooperation and support of our public schools
officials and leaders.
Doctor Max Rafferty, California Superinte ndent of Public Instruction and Director of Education, was most helpful and carried our pro-

28

PROCEED INGS OP THE

gram in the official publication of the State Departm ent of Education.
The California Teacher s Association published a full page announc ement in the Los Angeles Times. The California Association of School
Administrators, at their Annual Convent ion in San Francisco, gave our
Public Schools Program their full support and introduced our Chakma n,
John F. Porter, to the members of their convention and gave him an
opportun ity to speak to its members on our school program. The President and Executive Secretar y of the State-wi de Association of Board of
Schpol Trustees met with your Grand Master and Grand Secretar y and
assured us of the full cooperation of their State-wi de Association. The
Masons of the State of Hawaii presente d an impressive sound film on
public schools which has met with wide acclaim and enthusiasm.
To the countless numbers of volunteer Master Masons, whose names
are too numerous to mention in this message, we extend our sincere .
thanks and appreciation for a great Public Schools Week Program . We
wish especially to thank the tireless helpers on our Public Schools Week
Poster Program , the officials and students at the Los Angeles TradeTechnica l College who designed and produced the posters: also those
who prepared and presente d radio and T.V. programs. those who arranged for Public Schools imprints on milk cartons and stamp cancella- _
tions, those who obtained Proclamations from Mayors and public bodies.
those who presente d certificates and awards to teachers and students ,
those who arranged poster displays on municipal buses and in store
windows, those who planned all the interesting events to bring our program before the public, those who prepared exhibits for display at the
Annual Communication and, finally, to Master Masons everywh ere who
made public ·school visitations. It has been a great Public Schools year
because Master Masons everywh ere got behind the program and with
one great combined effort made it an outstand ing ·success. Their effort
clearly shows what can be done when Masons really work together.
It is my firm belief that next year's Public Schools Program will be
even greater and better because of the groundw ork and effort put forth
this year. To the Chairman, John F. Porter, and the hard working members of his Committee, we express our most sincere appreciation for a
job well done. Also to all the devoted and dedicate d Master Masons,
whose combined efforts achieved this most satisfying year for public
schools, my heartfelt thanks. The Chairma n will make a full and complete report during this Communication.
CONST ITUTIO N OBSER VANCE
Over one hundred seventy-five years ago. namely May 17, 1787, a
small group of remarkable men came together at Philadelphia to create
an effective instrument of free government for the new United States of
America. With tongue and pen they set about their tremendous task. In
less than one hundred working days they created the Constitu tion of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

29

the ~?ited States of America and projected an exP.eriment in government of the people, by th~ people and for the people which still remains
a continuous challenge to all true lovers of our great system of free
government.
It is interesting to note that many of the members of this Constitu tional Convent ion were Masons and some of its outstand ing leaders were
Master Masons. The President. George Washing ton, was a Mason and
one of its most distinguished members, Benjamin Franklin, was a
Master Mason. Little wonder, therefore, that one of our Grand Lodge
committees is designat ed as the Committee on Constitu tion Observance.
The month of Septemb er is ·s et aside for this purpose because the Constitution was signed by the members of the convention on the 17th day
of September, 1787, and was ratified on the 21st day of June, 1788, by
twelve of the thirteen colonies.
Your Committee on Constitution Observa nce has done an outstand ing job during the Masonic Year of 1964. During this year, for the first
time, there has been full coverage by radio and television all over the
State of California. This program continued through the early part of
September up to the middle of the month. It was pointed out by the
Chairma n of the Committee to the station managem ents that this program was "non-political and non-controversial." and that it was a program which the Masonic Fraterni ty has been celebrating for many years.
The result of this radio and television coverage has been a tremendous
success and has enabled the Grand Lodge of Californ ia to present its
Constitution Program s to millions of people.
City and county-wide celebrations were held througho ut the State
and were attended by thousand s of people. In the State of Hawaii, in its
capital city, Honolulu, a great mass celebration was staged in the Municipal Auditorium with an overflow audience. It is estimated that approximately eight thousand persons attended this Constitu tion Observa nce
Celebration sponsore d by the Masons of the State of Hawaii.
This has indeed been a most outstand ing Constitu tion Observa nce
for our Grand Jurisdiction and without doubt much good has been accomplished in spreadin g knowledge and respect for this invaluable document of freedom and constitutional government. Love and respect for our
Constitu tion must ever be kept alive in our great State of California and
the Fraterni ty of this State can well be proud of the program for this
Masonic Year.
It is our firm belief that the Grand Lodge Committee on Constitution
Observa nce should be made a standing committee and it is our recommendation that action be taken at this Communication to carry out this
recommendation.
In view of the importance of this program of Grand Lodge and the
accomplishments achieved this year. and to enable the incoming Grand
Master to carry on this most importan t Constitution Observa nce Month,

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it is iniy sincere recommendation that the Committee be gr{lnted a budget
of $6,650.00 for the ensuing Masonic Year.
It has often been said that if you want a job well done. select a busy
man to do it. This is exactly what we had in mind when we appointed
Thomas W. Thurman chairman of the Committee on Constitution Observance. We wish to thank Brother Thurman and all the members of
his Committee for the fine and outstanding job they have done for the
Grand Lodge of California in presenting this program on the Constitution of the United States of America.
1

31

seminar being LET FREEDOM RING. Those who heard the Jul'Y 11
program came away with a feeling of pride in the accomplishments of
dedicated Masons of the past and a wish to personally dedicate themselves anew to the service of Masonry in the future.
We strongly support and recommend the continuation of the Research Lodges and the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education
as we are convinced that these devoted and dedicated Masons are doing.
and will continue to do. a great service for the Grand Jurisdiction of
California.

COMMITTEE ON RITUAL
Grand Lecturer Donald G. Campbell and his six Assistant Grand
Lecturers have given us devoted and loyal assistance on every occasion
when requested. The Grand Jurisdiction of California is held in high
esteem by every Grand Lodge in North America due to the excellence
of the degree work being done by all of our constituent Lodges. My
sincere thanks to all the members of this very important Committee.
I also wish to take this occasion to thank the Inspectors of all the
Masonic Districts of this Grand Jurisdiction for their help and assistance
during my year as Grand Master. They constitute a great and hard working group of dedicated and devoted workers, and a mighty and valuable
force for every Grand Master in carrying through his program.
1

RESEARCH LODGES AND
COMMITTEE ON MASONIC EDUCATION
A survey of Masonic education throughout the United States,
undertaken by the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education,
shows that virtually every grand jurisdiction has a program for Masonic
education or is planning one. Those jurisdictions with the best programs
also appear to be making the best Masonic progreg.g.
In California the Committee on Masonic Education and the four
Research Lodges have rendered an invaluable service this past year.
Members of the Research Lodges have traveled more than 100,000 miles
at their own expense, visiting Lodges when requested to do so. and giving
talks, presenting panels or seminars. A wealth of authentic information
concerning Masonic history. symbolism and youth organizations has
been communicated in this fashion.
The Committee on Masonic Education has been of great benefit to
Masonry in California by coordinating the efforts of the Research
Lodges. by conducting Masonic seminars in areas beyond the reach of
the Research Lodges and finally, by using the third annual joint meeting
of the Research Lodges to promote the Masonic observance of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. This celebration was held in San
FranciscoonJulyl 1 ,1964. and was well attended. the theme of the all day

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEE STRUCTURE
Junior Past Grand Master Ira W. Coburn. in Ms Annual Message
to the Grand Lodge in 1963, made the following recommendation: "I
therefore recommend that a special committee be appointed by the incoming Grand Master to make a thorough study of our present overall
committee structure. their duties. activities. objectives. etc .• with the
objective of consolidation where possible and the elimination of overlapping responsibilities."
Pursuant to this recommendation, your Grand Master appointed a
committee of five members to make this study on committee structure
and prepare its report for presentation to Grand Lodge at its Annual
Communication in October. 1964. The members of this most important
Committee are:
Theodore Meriam, Chairman
Guy B. Mize
Elbert W. Davis
Ralph H. Head
Wakefield Taylor
This Committee has held many meetings and will in due time make its
report to this Grand Communication. I urge your careful attention to this
report for the reason that it is of great importance to our Grand Lodge
committee structure.
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
I wish at this time to compliment and commend Brother Newcomb
Condee for another year of remarkable achievement on behalf of the
California Freemason. Our Grand Lodge magazine has achieved an
outstanding position among the official Masonic publications due to the
devoted and dedicated efforts of 8rother Candee. It started eleven years
ago during the term of Past Grand Master Frank Harwell, Jr. It has
improved constantly under the editorship of Committee Chairman Newcomb Condee. It is a rea~able. inspirational and informative magazine.

32

33

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

It has been voted throughout the United States as the second best
Masonic magazine, second only to that of Indiana. This is indeed a
great honor for the Grand Lodge of California to attain. This splendid
Masonic magazine should be sent to every Master Mason in California
and Hawaii. It would more than pay for itself as other grand jurisdictions
have learned. Among these jurisdictions are New York, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, Indiana, Illinois, Texas. Oklahoma, Kentucky and many others.
It is my firm belief that by placing a copy of this splendid magazine
in the hands of every Master Mason in California Grand Lodge would
be doing a great service to Masonry and would do much towards inspicing and encouraging every Master Mason to work harder and more
earnestly for the good of our great Fraternity. It would enable Grand
Lodge to maintain a close and fraternal contact with every Master
Mason in California.
Section 203 of the California Masonic Code authorizes that distribution of the California Freemason may be directed by the Grand Master
but so far the Grand Lodge has never appropriated sufficient funds with
which to make such distribution. Brother Condee will, in Ms report to
Grand Lodge. explain the bid.received for the printing of the California
Ftteemason during the ensuing Masonic Year. what it will cost per copy
for the printing and distribution thereof to the membership in California
and Hawaii, and the over-all cost to Grand Lodge. We urge you to give
careful consideration to this important Report of the Committee on
Correspondence.
We strongly recommend that Grand Lodge establish a policy of
sending the California Freemason. at Grand Lodge expense. to every
California and Hawaii member in good standing and that action be taken
at this Communication of Grand Lodge to put this program into
operation.

California Masonry has invested large sums of money in these two
clubs, which is proper and constitutes a valuable asset but what would
bring greater and more lasting returns would be a renewed and widespread genuine interest of Master Masons everywhere throughout our
Grand Jurisdiction in the young men and women who belong to these
clubs.
It would be my recommendation and suggestion that each Lodge
designate and set up a special committee. within its own membership.
to make contact with these clubs and work with them wherever possible
and. further and more important, contact young men and women who
may be entering either of these universities and inform them about our
Masonic Clubs.

MASONIC CLUBHOUSES
Our Masonic Clubhouses at the University of California in Berkeley
and Los Angeles have had an exceptionally fine year. It was our privilege
to attend a reception at each club. These receptions were outstanding
and afforded the Master Masons who attended an opportunity to become better acquainted with these very fine young men and women who
make up the membership of these clubs.
The membership has materially increased in both Berkeley and Los
Angeles and it is my firm belief that Masonry has a golden opportunity
to exert a great influence upon the lives of these splendid young men and
women if we have the spirit and the will to make use of it and, furthermore, in so doing we can sell our Masonry to a group of young Americans who are destined to play an important role in the future of our
State and Nation.

ENDOWMENT BOARD
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
In due course each of the above-named Boards. Committees and
Grand Lodge Officer will present a report to Grand Lodge. It is not my
intention herein to comment upon or discuss these reports. Each one
will be primarily concerned with the financial structure and problems of
your Grand Lodge. It is our suggestion that the Master Masons attending this Annual •Communication give close attention and consideration
to all of these particular reports. They will be concerned with the receipt
and disbursement of your Grand Lodge monies and, as the representatives of your Lodges, you are certainly entitled to know, and should
know, the facts concerning these important financial matters.
It appears quite certain that the "per capita" tax now being levied by
Grand Lodge upon the local Lodges will, of necessity, have to be
increased.
MASONIC HOMES
Through the dedicated and devoted service of the Board of Trustees.
our two Homes (one at Union City for the elderly Masons and one at
Covina for the Masonic children) continue to show continued activity
and growth. The new Charles Albert Adams Hall is now completed and
on Wednesday. October ti, 1964, the Brethren attending the Annual
Communication will have the privilege of visiting and inspecting this
very 'fine facility at Union City.
Our Home at Decoto. Union City, is being most efficiently operated

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~n~ every effort is being made to provide an atmosphere of gracious
hvmg . for our guests. There are, of course, many administrative and
financial problems but these are expeditiously and skillfully handled by
the ~.oard and staff. The necessity for additional buildings. repairs and
add1ti?ns to old str~ctures, and maintenance of the grounds and equipment is a never endmg requirement.
The Home for Chil~ren at Covina likewise presents a continuing
challenge to the Fratermty. However, this facility is being operated and
maintained in an excellent manner. The Board of Trustees and staff are
ma~ing every effort to make this a real home for our Masonic children.
This they have accomplished with a high degree of success.
A comprehensive and complete report will be made by the Board
of Trustees.
In concluding this portion of our message, we wish to express ou~
appreciation and sincere thanks to the members of the Board of Trustees
and the staffs of both Homes for their dedicated and devoted service on
behalf of our Masonic Homes. Their devotion to the cause of Masonic
charity, as exemplified by their service on behalf of the guests at our
Homes, should receive the applause of all the Brethren of our Grand
Lodge.
ALASKA EARTHQUAKE
. Immediately upon receiving word of the disastrous earthquake affectmg. th~ ~fteen Masonic Lodges in the State of Alaska under the Grand
J urisd1ct10:11 o~ the S~ate of Washington, I directed our Grand Secretary
to ascertam, if possible, the severity and damage suffered by the local
Lodges.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35:

thi:oughout the · Grand Jurisdiction of California. During the present
Masonic Year your Grand Master has been called upon to render
twenty three decisions covering many factual situations. The original
full decisions are on file in the Grand Secretary's office and copies have
been filed with the Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence. We
do not deem it necessary at this time to read each decision.
DECISION No. 1
Facts:
A Lodge, acting through its Lodge Building Association, initiated a
money raising campaign with · a goal of $60,000.00. The Lodge, acting
through either its Officers or the Building Association, employed a
private company to conduct a drive to raise a portion of this money.
Lists of the members of the Lodge, members of the Eastern Star and
White Shrine were prepared and given to the company to be used for
the solicitation of this money for the Lodge.

Decision:
From the facts submitted and under the appropriate Sections of California Masonic Code, it is my opinion that there has been a violation of
our Masonic Code and the Lodge involved and the members thereof
should be so notified and all further solicitation of funds under said plan
should cease.

DECISIONS

DECISION No. 2
Facts:
A private cemetery in the City of Brea contained a section called
"Acacia Lawn ... The Grand Lecturer and an Assistant Grand Lecturer
requested an opinion as to whether or not an altar could be placed in
the "Acacia Lawn" section of ·said cemetery with a Masonic emblem
thereon and, further, asked if this altar could be dedicated by Grand
Lodge.
Decision:
It is my opinion that there i·s no violation of Masonic Law in placing
the said altar in the Acacia Lawn section and that it may have inscribed
thereon some Biblical inscription but no inscription taken from our
ritual or manual or other strictly Masonic in nature.
As to the dedication of this plot:
It is my opinion that same cannot be dedicated by Grand Lodge
because it is not a Masonic Cemetery and therefore is not entitled to a
Masonic Dedication Ceremony.

One of the most important tasks which devolves upon the Grand
Master is to apply and interpret the California Masonic Code to factual
situations presented to him by the constituent Lodges, MasteM of
Lodges, Inspectors. Grand Lodge Officers, and concordant organizations

DECISION No. 3
Facts:
In 1940 the Masonic Temple Association of San Diego purchased
the present Masonic Temple building located at 350 Cedar Street, San

Upon learning that there was genuine need for financial assistance
alth?ugh it was not requested by the Grand Lodge of Washington, 0 ~
April 24, 1964, I directed that $1,000.00 be sent to them and become a
part of the Alaska Maso.nic Relief Fund as a token of our high regard
for Masonry and for their Grand Jurisdiction. It was sent as a token of
love and best wishes from all the Masons of California.
On inquiry-individuals wanting to help were directed to also send
their contributions to the Grand Lodge of Washington Alaska Relief.
To those who responded my sincere thanks for their interest and assistance.

1

36

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Diego. At the time of this purchase there was a bowling alley located in
the b~ement of said building. This bowling alley at the time had an "on
sale" liquor license to sell and dispense intoxicating liquor to its bowling
patrons.

Applying these Sections of the California Masonic Code to the
facts as stated in a letter addressed to the Grand Master, it appears to
be dear and certain that the sale of beer in the bowling alley in the
basement of the Masonic Temple at 350 Cedar Street in San Diego is a
violation of the Masonic Code and is definitely prohibited by all the
Sections of said Code hereinbefore quoted.
The fact that the only entrance to the bowling alley was from an
outside door and from the street, and that there was no other entrance
to said bowling alley does not take this case out of the purview of said
Sections. To hold otherwise would make it possible for every Masonic
Lodge in this Jurisdiction to partition off a portion of its Temple and
make the only enti'ance thereto from the street or alley or otherwise and
then intoxicating liquor could be sold and dispensed in Masonic Temple
property or buildings. This is dearly prohibited under our present Code.
It is my opinion that the Masonic Temple Association of San Diego
cannot allow beer or any other intoxicating liquor to be sold, dispensed
or kept in the bowling alley located in the basement of its building at
350 Cedar Street, San Diego, California. And it cannot enter into the
proposed lease agreement by which it is proposed to allow the tenant
under said lease agreement to sell, dispense and keep liquor in, on or
around said bowling alley.

In November, 1963, the owner of the bowling alley entered into a
contract to sell same to a new tenant. However, under the law, the
liquor license could not be transferred and the purchaser was required
to apply to the State Board of Equalization for an "on sale" liquor
license in his own name. It also appears that there was only one entrance
to the bowling alley, which was on the street outside of the main part
of the Temple, and there was no access to the bowling alley from any
portion of the Temple except this one outside door on Vine Street. The
Temple Association was desirous of entering into a new contract with
the new tenant who was purchasing the bowling alley and the Temple
Association desired to incorporate in the new lease a clause allowing
the tenant to obtain an "on sale" liquor license so he could sell and
dispense liquor in the bowling alley of the Masonic Temple building.
Decision:
The question involved is as to whether or not the selling of beer in
the bowling alley located in the aforesaid Masonic Temple Building's
basement would be a violation of the California Masonic Code.
Also would it be a violation of the Masonic Code for the Masonic
Temple Association to enter into the proposed oral lease agreement?
An examination of the California Masonic Code discloses the following sections which appear to bear directly on these issues:
Section 199 ( i )-"Sale of alcoholic liquor in Masonic Temple
property is prohibited under any circumstances, and a department
store leasing ground floor space may not be permitted to maintain a package liquor department."
Section 199(b)-"A lodge should not hold regular meetings in a
building also occupied by a liquor selling establishment, and it
should not purchase such a building as a meeting place unless and
at the same time the business. of selling liquor can be eliminated
from the premises."
Section ( 199 ( c )-"A Lodge may not lease and hold meetings in
a place wherein the American Legion at their meetings dispense
liquor to members under a permit from the State Board of Equalization."
Section 199 ( h )-"A Temple may not be rented to another
organization for the purpose of doing what is illegal to be done by a Masonic organization • . . "

37

DEc1s10N No. 4
Facts:
The Officel's of a Lodge held a meeting with the Inspector of their
Masonic Disttjct for the purpose of establishing the proflciency of said
Officers preparatory to their installation. After the meeting a dinner
was served to approximately twelve persons. The question presented
was as to whether or not the cost of this meal was a proper charge
against Lodge funds.

Decision:
It is my opinion that under the facts, as stated, the cost of the
meal given to the Officers of the Lodge, the Inspector, the four coaches
and other persons whose identity is not made known, would be and is an
illegal expenditure of the Lodge Funds and the Lodge should refuse to
pay same because it is contrary to the California Masonic Code.
DEc1s10N No. 5
Facts:
The Senior Warden-elect of a Lodge submitted, in writing, his
request for a dimit. Later he -stated to one of the Officers of the Lodge
that he desired to withdraw his request for a dimit and requested that
the Master of the Lodge be notified prior to the Stated Meeting. Through
some mistake or inadvertence, the Master of the Lodge was not notified

38

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

of this reques t and at the Stated Meetin g his written reques t for a
·dimit
was read and granted . There were other extenu ating facts and. circum
stances involved in this rather complicated· case which are not
being
set forth herein at this time, however this does constitute the statem
ent
of the basic factual situation.
Decision:
Section 447 ( f) provides as follows: ", .. upon the reading at
a
stated meeting of a reques t for a dimit from a brothe r in good standin
g
thereaf ter the brothe r cannot withdr aw the request, and he cannot
be
reinsta ted but must apply for membership as any other non-aff
iliated
Mason ."
It is my opinion that under the facts as stated this Brothe r did
withdr aw his dimit reques t before it was read in Lodge but throug
h no
fault of his the withdr awal was not made known to the Master prior
to
the meeting at which it was read. This being so, this Brothe r is
still a
member of the Lodge, and the Lodge is author ized to make the proper
and necess ary entries in its minutes restori ng him to his status as
Senior
Warde n of said Lodge.
DEc1s1 0N

No. 6

Facts:
A reques t was made by a Lodge for an opinion in which it set forth
the following:
Over a period of years the caretak er of the Lodge had been helping the Stewar ds by doing the shopping, purchasing, prepar ing and
cooking of the meals served each week at the Lodge on their regular
meeting days. This Lodge meets on Saturd ay mornings and this
service is of great benefit to the Stewar ds and incidentally saves the
Lodge considerable money. Each year a special fund is raised
by
the Officers and members of the Lodge which is used to reimburse
the caretak er for this special service. This money is given to said
caretak er at Christm as time. Nowhe re in the statem ent of facts
submitted is the amoun t of money paid to the caretak er set forth;
however, it is stated, "The amoun t of monies he saves the Lodge
each year by doing our shopping for us far exceeds the small gift
he receives."
Decision:
Section 412 of California Mason ic Code provid es: "A Lodge may
expend, in its discretion, not to exceed thirty per cent of its total revenu
e
for purposes of refreshments and the promotion of fratern al interco
urse.
In the discretion of the Lodge, this fund may be cumulative in an amoun
t
not to exceed twenty per cent betwee n Januar y I, 1920, and Januar
y 1,
1950, and in an amoun t not to exceed thirty per cent thereaf ter."
There are other sections, namely 409, 410 and 411 which involve
this same general subject.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

39

I find nothing in any of these Sections, or the .opinions of Grand
Lodge render ed thereun der, whic~ would preven t this Lodge from
pay. their caretak er for these services.
mg The money so expend ed is for the benfit of the said Lodge and
its
entire membership and is being sp~nt .for refresh ments and for the
promotion of fratern al intercourse of its members.
DEc1s1 0N No. 7

Facts:
.
1
d
A
a Master s and Past ·Masters Association
p anne
I n January , 196•·
ld
Sh
·
T
1
•t Annua l Meetin
g and schedu led it to be he at a
rme emp e.
T5he Association sent out notices of this meeting, prepar ed ~ progra
m,
and made all arrang ements to hold the meeting as scheduled m ~anuary
,
1964, in said Templ e. Some question was r~ised as t? the propne ty
and
legality of holding such a Mason ic meeting m the Shn~e Te~pl.e betaus
e
of the fact that there were bars in the Templ e where mtoxicatmg
iq~or
was being consumed, dispensed and kept. The matter was pr~sen~ed
h~r
an opinion and decision as to whethe r or not such a meeting m
t is
Tem le, under the facts and circumstances presented, wo~ld b~
prohibit~d by the California Masonic Code. ~.fter careful consi~eration of
all the facts presen ted, the following decision was render ed.
Decision:
A Mason shall not, under any circumstances atte~d or be presen~
a~
an re ular meeting or social gatheri ng of a Mason ic ~roup, org~n~z
a
· y Lgd
r Body which is to be held or assembled m any building.
tion, o ge e
•
Templ e, Shrine or place
which is owne d , contra11ed .or op er.ated by an
or anization group, Lodge, Templ e, Body or Shnne , which has
or
re~uires as ~ prerequisite to membership therein, that a pers?n must be
a Master Mason , when intoxicating liquor is sold, kept, given
away,
served, consumed or maintained therein or thereon.
DEc1s1 0N

No. 8

Facts:
A question was presen ted as to the legality of expen d'mg Lad
funds for the purcha se of a 16 mm sound movie pr~jector to provi.~e
e
enterta inment and social enjoym ent for the membership of a Lodge.
D~~:

.
Section 412 provides. "A Lodge may expend , in its discretion,
not
t
d 30% of its total revenue for purposes of refresh ments
a':i~x;::motion of fa-aternal intercourse. In the discretion of the
Lodge, this fund may be cumulative in an amoun t not to e~ceed
20% betwee n Januar y 1, 1920 and J~!1uary 1, 1950 and m an
amoun t not to exceed 30% thereaf ter.

40

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

Man·y decisions have been hande d down by Grand Maste rs
throug h
the years since the adopti on of this section. From the eviden
ce presen ted
it would appea r that this purcha se was made for the benefit
of the entire
membership of the Lodge and to promote fratern al intercourse
and enjoyment.
I find nothin g in this Code section, or the decisions thereu nder,
which
would preven t the purcha se of this 16mm sound movie projec
tor.
It is theref ore my opinion that the purcha se is a proper
and legal
expenditµre of Lodge funds as proposed in the Maste r's letter.
DEc1s1 0N No. 9
Facts:
The Maste r of a Research Lodge reques ted an op1mon
from the
Grand Maste r as to wheth er or not a Maste r of a Resea
rch Lodge.
upon the completion of his term, was entitle d to the title
of "Past
Maste r" or if the designation should be "Mast er of Resea
rch Lodge
for the year 19--- ."

Decision:
It is my opinion that a reason able construction of the subdiv
isions
of Section 385 would preclu de a Maste r of a Resea rch Lodge
from using
the title of Past Maste r. A Past Maste r is by our law a memb
er of Grand
Lodge and he does have a vote therein. He can repres ent
his Lodge in
Grand Lodge. By the specific provision of Section 385 above
quoted, a
Maste r of a Research Lodge is denied these rights. The only
reason able
construction to be given to these provisions of our Code is
that it was
never intend ed that Past Ma1Sters of Resea rch Lodges should
have the
rights and privileges of a Past Maste r and of course should
not be
allowed the title of Past Maste r.
It is theref ore my opinion that Maste rs of Resea rch Lodge
s under
the old Section 385 and specif kally under the amend ed Sectio
n 385 are
never to be referre d to or design ated as "Past Maste rs."
The only title by which they could be design ated would be
"Mast er
of Research Lodge (here insert the name of the Lodge)
for the year
19-- ."
DEc1s1 0N No. 10
Facts:
The following facts were set forth in a letter addres sed to the
Grand
Secret ary by a Lodge. At a Stated Meeti ng of said Lodge
in Januar y,
1964. a motion was made as follows:
"Mov ed and second ed that the resignation of the Secret
ary be
at::cepted and the Grand Maste r be reques ted to issue a dispen
sation
authorizing the Lodge to hold a special election for the purpo
se of
eltttin g a Secret ary and or any other Officer that the resign
ation
of the Secret ary might effect."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

41

The Maste r of the Lodge declar ed the motion tabled and appoin
ted
a Past Maste r as Secret ary to serve throug h 1964.
Decision:
Section 472 (a) provides as follows:
"If any Office, excep t Maste r or Ward en's becomes vacan
t it is
not only the privilege but the right of the Maste r to appoin
t, for
the unexpired term, althou gh the Grand Maste r may, in case
of
urgent necessity. grant a dispensation for the election of a
Secretary or Treas urer." Orme, Grand Maste r 1894, pp. 540,
770;
Monro e, Grand Maste r 1912, p. 155.
It is my opinion under the facts as stated and the Califo rnia
Mason ic
Code, \Section above set forth, that the Maste r had the author
ity to table
the motion and make the appoin tment of a Secret ary to hold
office for
the unexpired term.
In case of urgen t necessity the Grand Maste r could grant
a dispen sation to hold a special election. Howe ver, facts would necess
arily have
to be presen ted to the Grand Maste r showing •such urgent necess
ity and
the application to the Grand Maste r for a dispensation must
be made
as set forth in Section 472, Califo rnia Mason ic Code.
The action of the Maste r is hereby approv ed.
DECISI ON No. 11
Facts:
From the facts presen ted it appea rs that West Gate Buildi
ng Corporation own& the Mason ic Temp le at 1308 South New
Hamp shire
Street , Los Angeles. After the erection of the Scottish Rite
Temp le on
Wilsh ire Boulevard. Los Angeles, the West Gate Temp
le lost its
Mason ic tenant s who moved to the Scottish Rite Templ e. Conse
quentl y
the West Gate Building Corpo ration had to seek other means
of financing their Temp le operat ions and the question presen ted
was as. to
wheth er or not they could lease the auditorium of the Temp
le to outsid e
group s and gather ings for the purpo se of holdin g weddi ng
receptions
and other types of activities and, in connection therewith,
allow intoxicating liquor to be served, it being unders tood that no charge
would be
made for the serving of said intoxicating liquor to the group
s or gather ings holding such meetings or affairs. It was furthe r stated
that the
auditorium could be "block ed off" from the Lodge hall and
that the
leasing of the auditorium to outsid e group s would be only on
Saturd ays
and Sunda ys and never when any Mason ic meetings were being
held.
Decision:
A Mason ic Temp le Association, Corpo ration , Lodge or group
of
Mason s shall not, under any conditions or circumstances, permit
or allow, either by lease or otherwise, any person, associ
ation,

42

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

group, Lodge, society or organization to use any part or portion
of a Masonic Temple for the purpose of dispensing, consuming,
selling or giving away intoxicating liquor therein or thereon or
for holding any meeting or gathering therein where intoxicating
liquor is to be consumed, served, dispensed, given away or main•
tained therein or thereon.
DEc1s10N No. 12
Facts:
This request was of a technical nature and required a construction
of Section 365 California Masonic Code. The Lodge involved was seeking to amend its by-laws with respect to its dues and a question was
raised as to the effective date of the amendment.

Decision:
From reading this Section it is clear that the said amendment did
not become effective until January 15, 1964. This being the date when
the amendment was approved by the Grand Master. Said amendment
would become operative at the start of the second quarter which would
be April 1. 1964.
All dues paid in prior to April 1, 1964 would be on the basis of the
Section of the By-Laws as it existed prior to that date.
DEc1sION No. 13

Facts:
An opinion was requested as to whether or not the cost of a trowel
provided by some Lodges to be given to a Candidate in the Third Degree
could be charged to the general funds of the Lodge.
Dedsion:
A reading of those Sections of the California Masonic Code having
to do with basic laws on use of Lodges' funds. namely, Sections 409, 410,
411 and 412 do not disclose any authority for the expenditure of monies
from the general funds of the Lodge for the purchase of trowels.
There is no general program or law directing or authorizing a gift of
a trowel to the Candidate as a program of the Grand Lodge.
It is my opinion that the expenditure of money from the general funds
of the Lodge for a trowel, as a gift to the Candidate, is not authorized by
the California Masonic Code and same would be an illegal expenditure
of said funds.
DEc1s10N No. 14
Facts:
The Pharaoh of the Supreme Pyramid of the Ancient Egyptian
Order of Sciots, requested an opinion on the following: This organization, which requires as a pre-requisite to membership therein that a man

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

43

be a Master Mason, proposed to hold a social meeting in a hall which
belongs to the American Legion in which the Legion has a bar and would
serve and dispense intoxicating liquor therein. The question presented
was as to whether or not the Sciots could hold such a meeting in this hall.
Decision:
Section 199 ( g) of the California Masonic Code reads as follows:
"A Lodge may hold social or ,similar meetings in a building where
intoxicating liquor is sold over a bar, and a Mason may belong to
an organization ·r equiring Masonic membership as a prerequisite,
which holds such meetings in such buildings."
The meeting which the Sciots propose to hold as set forth above is
to be a building belonging to the American Legion, an organization
which does not require as a prerequisite to membership therein, that
a person must be a Master Mason. Under the provisions of said section
it is my opinion that the Sciots may hold their meeting in the American
Legion Hall.
DEc1s10N No. 15
Facts:
The Master and a Past Master of a Lodge submitted a written
request to change the name of said Lodge and requested a dispensation
from the Grand Master to make such a change.
Decision:
A Lodge cannot change its name by an amendment to its by-laws, or
by any other action. Likewise the name cannot be changed by a dispensation from the Grand Master. A Lodge desiring to change its name must
present the same by proper resolution to the Grand Lodge at its next
Annual Communication. Such resolution must be prepared and filed with
the Grand Secretary ninety days ( 90) prior to October 12, 1964.
DEc1s10N No. 16
Facts:
An Inspector requested an opinion on the following: In an application for the degrees of Masonry an applicant stated that when he was
seventeen years old he was charged with a felony (<Statutory rape) in
a petition filed in the Juvenile Court and was committed to the Preston
School of Industry by the Juvenile Court. The question was as to
whether or not this application could be received. The facts indicate that
the applicant at the time of commission of the offense was a minor person.
Under the Juvenile Court Law of the State of California the Juvenile
Court is not considered as a criminal court and the proceedings therein
are deemed to be in the nature of a civil proceeding, the ultimate objective
being to rehabilitate the youth involved.
Decision:
The application may be received from this applicant. As indicated

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

above under our Juvenile Court Law he was at the time of the offense a
minor person, under the age of eighteen years, and by virtue of the
provisions of said law he was committed to the California Youth Authority. He was released on parole and has reinstated himself as a good
citizen in the community where he now lives and is eligible to apply for
membership in a Masonic Lodge.

ment of facts: An applicant stated in his application tha~ he had c~m1Ditted the crime of robbery and the other facts set forth m the application indicated that at the time of the commission of the crime he was
not a minor person. The applicant was never granted a pardon.

DEc1s10N No. 17
Facts:
A Lodge requested permission to place a directional sign at the corner
of two streets in the city in which it was located, the sign to contain
the words "Masonic Temple" with an arrow pointing in the direction
in which the Temple is located.

· Decision:
It is true that at the 1963 Communication the Grand Master held
"I can see no sound reason why a Lodge should not be prohibited from
notifying the public, generally, of its name, number and street address
so that a weary brother Mason should perchance pass by that way he
would be informed that brother .Masons dwelt in that Community and
he would find them or their Lodge if he so desired. Also, such practice
would give notice to the public. generally. that there was a Masonic
Lodge in that community." This Decision No. 4, of the Grand Master,
came before the Committee on Jurisprudence for a recommendation to
Grand Lodge as to rejection or approval. In its report the Committee
on Jurisprudence stated: "This decision holds that it is permissible for
Lodges to display signs at entrances to towns where Lodges are located
bearing the Square and Compass emblem, names and numbers and
addresses of Lodges, dates and hour of meeting."
The Committee gave four reasons why this decision of the Grand
Master should be rejected and recommended a no vote. A majority of
Grand Lodge voted no.
In view of the facts herein set forth that all that is being requested
by the Lodge is a directional arrow indicating the direction in which
the Temple is located. It is my opinion that this in no way violates
Sections 333 (a) to ( k) of the California Masonic Code, and is not
violative of the recommendation and finding of the Committee on Jurisprudence.
It is therefore my opinion and decision that a Masonic Lodge may
erect a directional sign consisting of the words "Masonic Temple" and
an arrow indicating the direction in which the Temple is located.
DEc1s10N No. 18
Facts:
The Master of a Lodge asked for an opinion on the following state-

45

Decision:
Section 511 ( g) of the California Masonic Code reads as follows:
"One who has served a term in the state prison is not under the
tongue of good report, and it is not proper to receive his application."
Under the provision of this section it was proper for the Master of
the Lodge to refuse the application and return same together with the
check to the applicant.
One who has been convicted of a felony (robbery) and has served
a term therefore, in prison and has not received a full pardon is not
eligible to petition for the degrees of Masonry. His petition should not
be read in Lodge, but should be returned by the Master to the petitioner.
DEc1s10N No. 19

This decision covers the same factual situation as that set forth
in Decision No. 11 and your Grand ,Master held that a Masonic Temple
cannot be leased to any organization where such organization proposes
or requests the right to serve intoxicating liquor therein. Since the illegal
lease was terminated by the lessee it was ordered that the lease deposit
be returned by the lessor.
DEc1s10N No. 20
Facts:
This decision covers the same situation as set forth in Decision No.
16 where the applicant set forth in his application that he was convicted
of the crime of burglary and at the time was seventeen years of age.
the only difference being that in the instant case the additional facts
appeared that the applicant was granted a full pardon by the Governor
of Oklahoma and was restored to all his civil rights.

Decision:
This subject has been considered by Grand Masters, as disclosed by
Sections 511 g and 511 h. The present Grand Master has also covered
this problem in his Decision No. 16. Here again we have a youthful
offender of seventeen years old. Under the California Law this minor
would be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court. As
pointed out in Decision No. 16, proceedings in our Juvenile Court are
not considered as criminal in nature, but as held by our Supreme Court
"they are in the nature of a proceeding for the appointment of a guardian.

..

46

41

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This may not be the law in the State of Oklahoma, but at least he
was considered to be a minor and his case disposed of on that basis.
Furthermore in the instant case this young man was granted a full pardon by the then Governor of Oklahoma.
An application may be received from one who at the age of seventeen
years was found guilty of a felony (burglary of the second degree).
was sentenced to three years in a reformatory, ·served one year and seven
months and was placed on parole for the balance of the term and later
received a full pardon from the Governor and has since lived properly
and otherwise comes well recommended.

certain facts were set forth concerning the removal of a handmade model
of a sailing ship from over the Preparation Room door of the Lodge
Room of Redondo Lodge No. 328.
On June 30, 1964 a letter concerning the same subject was received
from Donald G. Campbell. the Grand Lecturer. In substance the factual
situation presented is as follows:
Redondo Lodge had a handmade model of a sailing ship placed
over the door leading from the Preparation Room into the Lodge
Room. The Grand Lecturer requested the Lodge to remove same.
It was removed. Some members of the Lodge evidently questioned
the authority of the Grand Lecturer to order its removal. The
Grand Lecturer has requested an opinion.
This matter was presented to Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication in 1957 by two Resolutions. One presented by three
Lodges jointly and one by El Segundo Lodge No. 507.
These Resolutions referred to the use of Charts, Ships and Slides
and required the Ritual Committee "to re-evaluate the entire
ritual of the fi11st three degrees with a view to recommend the reintroduction of the 'chart' and re-granting permission to display
a model of a boat near the door of the Preparation Rooms."
These resolutions were referred to three committees. Jurisprudence. Policy and General Purposes and Ritual.
At the Annual Communication in 1958 Reports were made by a
Special Committee on the use of visual aids. One was designated
a majority report and the other the minority report.
The majority report was to the effect that so called visual aids
should not be used.
The minority report recommended the appointment of a new
Committee to report to Grand Lodge at its next Annual Communication. The minority report was adopted. A new committee
was appointed to report to the next annual communication.
In 1959 this Special Committee made a long and detailed report
to Grand Lodge which was adopted in full.
This report recommended that any slide, ship, map, chart. or picture of any nature. showing in part or in whole, the work of the
three degrees of Masonry is contrary to the laws of the fraternity
and in violation of the obligation of the order. and no Lodge in
this jurisdiction shall use such equipment in any way, nor shall
any Mason be in possession thereof.
The Committee went on to state "we can see no reason for a
change in the presentation and lecture of the three degrees as
now constituted."
This would appear to be the final word of Grand Lodge on this
subject. As indicated above the report of the Committee was
adopted by Grand Lodge.

DECISION No. 21
Facts:
An opinion was 1'equested as to whether or not an applicant in
filling out his application form could print all of the answers and matters
required rather than write same in his own handwriting.
Decision:
Section 526 only specified that "applications for the degrees and for
affiliation shall be in writing."
The applicant may fill out the application if he so desires by printing
the required answers and information thereon, but, he must sign his
name in his own handwriting: he cannot print his signature.
DECISION No. 22
Facts:
A Lodge Auditing Committee refused to approve a bill covering
what appeared to be its share of expenses in a joint enterprise for a
"Masonic Sunrise Service" in March, 1964, on the grounds that it was
not a proper charge against Lodge funds. The facts as to the origin of
the bill are not set forth in the inquiry respecting the propriety of its
payment.

Decision:
Sections 409, 410, 411and412 seem to govern the use and disbursement of Lodge funds.
A careful reading of these sections and the annotations thereto disclose no authorization for this expenditure of this bill as submitted to
the Secretary. The annotations under Sections 409 and 412 indicate that
this is not a proper charge against Lodge funds.
It is my opinion and decision that the auditing committee was justified in refusing to approve this bill.
DECISION No. 23
Facts:
In June, 1964, a letter was received from a Past Master in which

48

49

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Decision:
In view of the final action taken by Grand Lodge it is my opinion
that the Grand Lecturer was entirely right in ordering the removal of
the ship from over the door to the Preparation Room. The Lodge should
abide by the request of the Grand Lecturer.

message we feel that they have a peculiar relationship to the welfare of
not only our Grand Jurisdiction but also to the welfare and benefit of
our State and Nation. Masonry has always been and ever will be a
strong supporter of our system of free government under a written Constitution, our free system of universal public education, the American
home and church. These constitute the fundamental and firm foundation
of our American way of life, liberty and happiness.
And now, in final conclusion, we wish to thank all the Grand Lodge
Officers, both elective and appointive, for their devoted, dedicated and
splendid support and assistance. It has been our sincere effort to mold
and form all of these dedicated Masons into an effective team which
would carry on the work of this Masonic Year as a working unit, ever
keeping in mind that teamwork is always more effective than individual
effort. To each and every one of these devoted Masons our sincere
thanks. Also, our thanks to the many hard working dedicated Grand
Lodge Committeemen who have carried on the great Grand Lodge program for this Masonic Year.
One of the most rewarding experiences of a Grand Master is to meet
and talk with the thousands of Master Masons throughout the States of
California and Hawaii. To each and all of these wonderful Masons our
sincere thanks and appreciation for their good will and support during
our Masonic Year as Grand Master, and for the work each one is doing
in his own Lodge and community.
In closing we also wish to thank the Master Masons here assembled
in this 11 Sth Annual Communication for their kind attention and consideration to this, our Annual Message.

GRAND SECRETARY'S OFFICE
I wish to pay special tribute to Edward H. Siems, Past Grand
Master and Grand Secretary, and his efficient staff. The Grand Secretary
and all the members of his staff have at all times been most helpful. Without the excellent secretarial and ·stenographic help made available to me
at all times, it would have been most difficult indeed to carry on the great
volume of correspondence and necessary office work of the Grand
Master.
Brother Edward H. Siems was always ready and willing to render,
out of his long experience in Masonry, sound and valuable advice and
assistance concerning the manifold problems which arise during the
term of office of the Grand Master.
Assistant Grand Secretary Verne W. Hendrix and the office staff
were always willing and eager to supply needed and necessary information and technical advice on all matters concerning the many functions
and operations of the Grand Lodge of California.
This congenial and pleasant relationship made my year as Grand
Master a most happy and enjoyable experience.
Under the energetic work and leadership of Edward H. Siems, we
have an outstanding Grand Secretary's Office in the Grand Lodge of
California. The improvements in office equipment, procedure and staff
have made this office the equal and perhaps, in some respects, superior
to many of our large mercantile and business offices. This will most
certainly inure to the great benefit of Masonry ev_erywhere in California
and Hawaii.
I w~sh to thank Brother Siems and all the members of his excellent
staff for the many courtesies extended to me and the assistance rendered
to me during my 'Year as Grand Master.
CONCLUDING REMARKS
It is not our intention or purpose to report upon the work of all
Grand Lodge Committees. Each committee will make a written report
to Grand Lodge setting forth in detail its accomplishments and work
for this Masonic Year. We have singled out and mentioned certain
committees in this message. not because we feel they are deserving of
special mention over any other Grand Lodge Committees because all
are entitled to the commendation of Grand Lodge, but because in the
case of those committees to which we have given special mention in our

ELMER

w. HEALD

Grand Master
The message was received with a standing ovation and was referred
by the Deputy Grand Master to the Committee on Distribution.

50

51

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OF GRAND LoDGE

September I 9----Comerstone Ceremony, Manzanita Elementary School.
Chico.
October 4-Cornerstone Ceremony, Colusa High School. Colusa.
(Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master)

I963
November 2-Cornerstone Ceremony, San Luis Obispo High School,
San Luis Obispo.
November 19-Constitution, Old West Lodge No. 813, San Fernando.
November 20--Constitution, Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge No. 814, Los
Angeles.
November 30--Cornerstone Ceremony, Victorville Masonic Temple,
Victorville.
November 30--Constitution, Triad Lodge No. 812, Montebello.
December 7-Cornerstone Ceremony, Kellogg School. Goleta.
December I4-Cornerstone Ceremony, Simi Valley High School. Santa
Susana.
I964
January I I-Cornerstone Ceremony, San Marino Elementary School.
Buena Park.
January 25-Cornerstone Ceremony, Kerman Senior Elementary School,
Kerman.
February 8-Cornerstone Ceremony, Monrovia Masonic Temple, Monrovia.
March 28-Cornerstone Ceremony, Cambria Elementary School, Cambria.
April 4-Cornerstone Ceremony, Rio Mesa High School, Oxnard.
April I I-Cornerstone Ceremony, City Hall, Salinas.
May 9-Cornerstone Ceremony, Arcata Union High School. Arcata
(Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master)
May I&--Cornerstone Ceremony, John F. Kennedy High School. Buena
Park (Myron E. Smith, Senior Grand Warden).
May 23-Cornerstone Ceremony, Sutter Union High School, Sutter
(Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
May 24-Cornerstone Ceremony, El Molino High School. Forestville
(Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
June 27-Cornerstone Ceremony, Baldwin Park Masonic Temple, Baldwin Park.
July 25-Cornerstone Ceremony, Machado Street Elementary School.
Elsinore.
September 5-Cornerstone Ceremony, San Clemente High School. San
Clemente.
September 5-Cornerstone Ceremony, Ole Hanson Elementary School,
San Clemente.
September &--Cornerstone Ceremony, Barstow Masonic Temple, Barstow (Myron E. Smith, Senior Grand Warden).
September I 9 - Cornerstone Ceremony, Chico Senior High School,
Chico.

SPECIAL CEREMONIES

I963
November 23-Dedication, Norwalk Masonic Temple, Norwalk.
I964
January I 9-Dedication, J. Bohnett Grammar School, Campbell. (Laurence E. Dayton, Junior Grand Warden)
January 26---Dedication, Granada High School, Livermore. (Warren J.
Blomseth, Senior Grand Deacon)
February I 5-Dedication, Glendora Masonic Temple, Glendora. ·
April I 5-Dedication, Sunnyvale Masonic Temple, Sunnyvale.
April I 9-Dedication, Charles Fammatre Elementary School, San Jose.
(Warren J. Blomseth, Senior Grand Deacon)
April I 9-Dedication, Ida Price Elementary School, San Jose. (Warren
J. Blomseth, Senior Grand Deacon)
April 22 - Dedication, Glenwood Elementary School, San Rafael.
(Warren J. Blomseth, Senior Grand Deacon)
April 22-Dedication, Cabrillo Lane High School, Artesia. (Myron E.
Smith, Senior Grand Warden)
.
May I&--Dedication, Monte Vista Elementary School. Vista (Joe L.
Shell, P.G.M.)
June IO-Dedication, Menlo Park Masonic Temple, Menlo Park.
June 13-Dedication, Portola Masonic Temple, Portola.
August I5-Dedication, Indian Wells Masonic Temple, Ridgecrest.
September I&--Dedication, John F. Kennedy Elementary School. Stockton.
NEW LODGES INSTITUTED

I964
February &-Institute, Great Lights Lodge, Sunnyvale.
June 27-lnstitute, Frank S. Land Lodge, Los Angeles.
October 2-lnstitute, Mar Vista Lodge, Newport Beach.
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

I963
October 20--Breakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
October 24-Annual Meeting, Grand Chapter Order of the Eastern
Star, Long Beach.

52

53

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

October 25-Reception, Santa Clara Valley, Masonic Officers Assocition, San Jose.
October 27-Breakfast, San Mateo County Masonic Officers Association, Millbrae.
October 28-Reception, El Centro Lodge No. 384, El Centro.
October 30-Reception, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
November 3-Reception and Breakfast, 307, 308, 310, 314 and 316th
Districts, Santa Rosa.
November 8-Dinner, Keystone York Rite Association, San Francisco.
November 14-Annual Meeting, Grand Guardian Council of the International Order of Job's Daughters, Fresno.
November 9-BBQ, El Centro Chapter No. 109, R.A.M .. Niland.
November 16--Reception, University of California Masonic Clubhouse.
·
Berkeley.
December 21-lnstallation of Officers, King Solomon's Seaport Lodge
No. 260, San Francisco.

March 22-Breakfast, East Bay Annual Spring Breakfast, Oakland.
March 23-Grand Assembly, International Order of Rainbow for
Girls, Long Beach.
April 3-Reception and Flag Pole Dedication, 602nd, 603rd, 605th and
612th Districts, San Bernardino.
April 10-Reception, 392nd and 394th Districts, Salinas.
April 11-Reception, Sacramento Masters and Wardens Association,
Sacramento.
April 12-Annual Spring Masonic Breakfast, Sacramento Masonic
Board of Relief, Sacramento.
April 14-Luncheon, Insurance Square Club of San Francisco, San
Francisco.
April 16--Reception, Berkeley Masters and Wardens Association,
Berkeley.
April 17-Reception, Islam Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., San Francisco.
April 17, 18, 19-Third Division Conference.
April 19-Breakfast, Long Beach Masonic Board of Relief, Long Beach.
April 20-Public Schools Week Observance Program, 554th, 556th and
558th Districts, Los Angeles. (Myron E. Smith, Senior Grand
Warden.)
May 1-Enroute to Hawaii.
May 1, 2, 3---Fifth Division Conference.
May 6--Reception, Maui Lodge No. 472, Kahului, Maui.
May 8-Reception, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo.
May 11-Suprfme Session, Order of the White Shrine of Jerusalem,
Hollywood (Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
May 13-Breakfast, Aloha Shrine Temple, Honolulu.
May 13---Visit to the Punchbowl Cemetery and laying of a wreath on
the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, Honolulu.
May 13-Reception, Honolulu Lodges, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. le
Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371, Honolulu Lodge No. 409,
Schofield No. 443, Pearl Harbor No. 598, Waikiki No. 774 and
Koolau No. 801.
May 14-Reception, Kauai Lodge No. 589, Kauai.
May 18-Visit to the S. S. Arizona, Honolulu.
May 19-Reception, Scottish Rite, Honolulu.
May 21-Luncheon, Shrine Club, Honolulu.
May 21-Reception, York Rite, Honolulu.
May 23---Reception, Joint Officers Association, Honolulu.
June 4, 5, 6--Fourth Divi,sion Conference.
June 11-Annual Convention, National Sojourners, San Francisco.
(David H. Blakelock)
June 12-Reception, 1 l 2th District, Lassen.

1964
January 14-Reception, 319th and 320th Districts, Richmond.
January 16--Reception, 318th, 360th and 36lst Districts, Walnut
Creek.
January 18-Masonic Homes Board Meeting, Union City.
January 30-Reception, 609th District, Palm Springs.
February )-Meeting, Southern California Past Masters Association,
Los Angeles.
February 5--Reception, San Diego Scottish Rite Bodies, San Diego.
February 8-lnstallation of the 1964 Officers of the Masonic Press
Club of Los Angeles, Pasadena.
February 11-Reception, S78th and 588th Districts, Los Angeles.
March 4-lnstallation, Masonic Press Club of Northern California,
·
San Francisco.
March 6--Dinner, Statewide Workshop of the Scottish Rite, Sacramento.
March 7-Reception, Los Angeles Masonic Club House, Los Angeles.
March 7-Annual Convocation of the Inland Masters and Past Masters
Association, Tracy (Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
March 8-Westwood Hills Christian Church Service, Los Angeles.
March 9-Reception, 536th, 538th and 540th Districts, El Monte.
March 13---Reception, 526th, 528th, 530th, 532nd and 53ith Districts,
Pasadena.
March 14-Masonic Homes Board Meeting, Covina.
March 15--Breakfast, Los Angeles Board of Relief. Hollywood.
March 20, 21, 22-Sixth Division Conference.
March 20-Dinner, Masonic Clubs in the Motion Picture Business.
Hollywood.

54

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

June I 4-Flag Day Observance and Breakfast, San Diego County
Masonic Officers Association, San Diego (Laurence E. Dayton,
Junior Grand Warden ) .
June I 9, 20, 2I-First and Second Divisions Conference.
June 2I-Annua l St. John's Day Breakfast, Compton.
June 22-Recepti on, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles.
June 23-Recepti on, 5I6th, 520th, 522nd and 524th Districts, Van Nuys.
June 26-Grand Bethel, Internationa l Order of Job's Daughters, Long
Beach.
June 26-Annual Beefsteak Feed. Inglewood Lodge No. 42I, Inglewood.
June 28-Annual Orange County Area Breakfast, Anaheim.
June 29-Recepti on, 646th District, El Centro.
July I I-Joint Meeting, California Research Lodges, San Francisco.
July I 7-Receptio n, Truckee Lodge No. 200, Truckee.
July 24-Recepti on, San Diego County Officers Association, Chula
Vista.
July 25-Recepti on, 606th, 6IOth and 6I8th Districts, Ontario.
July 3I-Recepti on, 596th District, Paramount.
August 7-Receptio n, 620th and 62IiSt Districts, Torrance.
August 7, 8, 9-Masonic Homes Board Meeting, Santa Barbara.
August 29-Meetin g, Southern California Association, Order of De
Molay, Palm Springs.
September I I-Receptio n, 624th, 626th and 627th Districts, Visalia.
September I 3-Breakfas t, 4 I 8th Masonic District, Masters and Wardens Association, Fresno.
September I 7-Receptio n and Constitution Observance Program, 628th
District, Brea.
September I 9-Constitu tion Observance Program, 629th District, Anaheim (John F. Porter).
September I 8-BBQ, I I 6th and l I 7th Districts, Durham.

May I6-Golden Anniversary , Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, Van Nuys.
(Myron E. Smith, Senior Grand Warden).
June 22-Golden Anniversary , Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles.
August 8-75th Anniversary , Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, San Diego.
August 8-Golden Anniversary , Montebello Lodge No. 451, Montebello. (James E. Wellett, Junior Grand Deacon).
·
September 26-Centen nial Celebration , Elk Grove Lodge No. I 73, Elk
Grove.

ANNIVERSAR IES

I963
November I5-Golden Anniversary , Tyrian Lodge No. 439, Manteca
(Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
I964
March 3-75th Anniversary , Orange Grove Lodge No. 293, Orange.
May 3-Golden Anniversary . La Puente Lodge No. 446, La Puente.
(James E. Wellett, Junior Grand Deacon).

55

V1s1TATJONS Bv GRAND LODGE OFFICERS To
OTHER GRAND JURISDICTION S

I963
November I I , I 2, I 3-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada (Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
I964
February I 9, 20, 2I, 22-Confere nce of Grand Masters of North
America and Annual Meeting of The George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, Kansas City, Missouri.
(Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary).
April 27-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona. ('Myron
E. Smith, Senior Grand Warden).
May 4, 5, 6, 7-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of New York
(Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., Grand Secretary).
June IO-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon. (Laurence
E. Dayton, Junior Grand Warden) .
June I6, I 7-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Washington .
June I8, I9-Annual Communi· cation, Grand Lodge of British
Columbia.

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THI'!:
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPT ED MASONS
OF CALIFOR NIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPT ED MASONS
OF CALIFOR NIA

ELMER W. HEALD
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMAT ION -

ELMER

EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

ELMER W. HEALD
GRAND MASTER

DE MoLAY WEEK

March 16th to 20th, 1964
The Youth of today are the Citizens of tomorrow. Today we find
the enemies of our Country seeking to undermine our future by capturing
the minds of our youth. Those who would destroy us are devoting their
time and money to an effort to control the thinking of our young people
and to poison their minds against our beloved country.
Today one of the most disturbing factors throughout our nation is
the amount of unrest displayed by the Youth of America. Juvenile problems have more than doubled during the last five years, and have now
reached an all-time high. The decline in spiritual and moral values of a
considerable segment of our younger generation is.a problem of major
importance.
The great Order of De Molay offers Masonry a tremendous opportunity to combat these evil forces. De Malay is a mighty asset in build--ing character into the lives of its members. Let us not waste any precious
time in giving our active support to this Masonic youth organization.
By this work we can assure a bright future for our Country and for
Freemasonr y.
Too many of our Lodges are not yet aware that Grand Lodge has
sanctioned support of De Molay. Section 333f of the California Masonic
Code records Grand Lodge approval of the ideals, aims and purposes of
the Order of De Malay.
The opening ceremonies of each De Malay Chapter includes an
avowal of support for our country, our public schools, and the church
of one's choice, and respect for the home and all it stands for.
In recognition of the lifetime of values in this fine youth organization, in the hope that more Lodges will undertake to sponsor and
support De Malay Chapters in their communities, I hereby proclaim
the week of March 16th to 20th to be De Molay Week. Each Lodge is
directed to give due notice of this Proclamatio n in its March bulletin.
It is also my direction that this Proclamation be read at the February
and March Stated Meetings.
Dated: January 15, 1964
Fraternally yours,
Attest:

57

w. HEALD

Grand Master

PROCLAMAT ION -

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMEN T MONTH

"Help me, Lord, to do the best I can,
To aid and assist my fellow-man;
And may I ever grateful be,
To Him who daily blesses me."
In the spirit of that prayer, may every brother in this Jurisdiction
turn his thoughts to our Masonic Homes and make a contribution to
the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.
May is hereby proclaimed "Masonic Homes Endowment Month"
and the attention of all brethren is directed to the 380 elderly residents
in our Masonic Home for the Aged, and the 60 young ones in our
Masonic Home for Children.
I direct that this Procalamati on be read at the April and May Stated
Meetings. and urge that a copy hereof be sent to each member.
Dated: February 15, 1964
Fraternally yours,
ELMER

w. HEALD

Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

58

GRAN D LODG E
FREE AND ACCE PTED MASO NS
ELMER w. HEALD
OF CALIF ORNIA
MASTER

GRAN D LODG E
ACCE PTED MASO NS
AND
FREE
OF CALIF ORNIA

GRANO

ELMER W . HEA LD
GRANO MASTER

PROCLAM AT ION
FORTY- FIFTH ANNUAL PU BLIC S CHOO LS \VEEK

The discover y which has most profound ly affected the cc~1rse 0f
humanity was the discover y of the past. Only through educat;on a nd
the transmission of the knowled ge of the past to the student of today,
can we make satisfact ory progress in the future.
The founders of our nation recogniz ed that freedom and self-government could only be achieved and maintain ed by a people educated in
the techniqu e of self-gove rnment and informed on the ways and mea ns
of preservin g their freedom .
The Constitu tion of the United States proclaim ed those fundame ntal precepts of governm ent essential to the preserva tion of the freedom
and dignity of the individua l. The America n concept of universa l free
public educatio n, which began to develop not long after the signing of
the Constitu tion, provided the only satisfact ory means of achieving the
goals set by our Constitution.
In establish ing Public Schools Week in 1920, Grand Master Charles
Albert Adams said: "As Masons we unqualifi edly subscribe to the
belief that an educated a nd enlighten ed citizensh ip is the first great
care of the progress ive State; and that upon our Public Schools depends
the hope for the perpetui ty of a free and untrammeled democra cy."
Those words are even more importan t now, for the leaders of tomorrow are in school today. The challeng e to think. to plan, to lead. to
govern , to assume responsibility is greater than ever.
Therefor e, the week of April 20th to 24th, 1964, has been designated as "Public Schools Week.'' and the theme for this fort y-fifth observance is: "THE PUBLIC SCHOO L - AMERI CA'S FUTUR E."
Let us demonst rate our eternal dedicatio n to the cause of freedom
and the Public Schools by exercisin g our duty as citizens every day of
the year, but especiall y for this week let us all attend and participa te in
Public School Observa nces.
Lodges can join together to recogniz e and honor public school
officials. administ rators and teachers. We can urge public officials to issue
Public Schools Week proclama tions.
I direct that only Stated Meeting s or those for Public Schools vVeek
observan ce be held during Public Schools Week.
This proclama tion is to be read at the Stated Meeting s held in the
months of March and April. 1964.
Dated: February 3, 1964
Fraterna lly yours,
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand S ecretary

ELMER

w. HEALD

Grand Master

59

PROCLAM ATJON
LET FREEDOM RING!

The birth certifi cate of our nation bears the date · Ju lY 4 • 1776. w h en
· h history of man, a full charter of freedom was
·
f or the fi rs t t 1me
lil t e
finally and .f?rmally adopted: This Declarat ion of Independence is more
than a political resolutio n. 1t embodies an ageless phi'losoPh Y an d an
· · of the individ ual.
· th e d igmty
eterna I fa1'th lil
. The Congre~ s of the ~nited States has adopted a resolutio n declaring that the anrnvers ary Ot the signing of the D eclaratio n of Independ ence sh.o uld be observed each year by the ringing of bells throu hout
the ~n1ted States. at the h~ur of 11 o'clock. P acfic Daylight Tim;, the
morning. of July 4, and callmg upon civic and commun ity leaders to take
appropri ate steps to encourag e public pa rticipa tion in such observa
I hereby call upon every Mason in Californ ia to join in this In~:~
pendence Day Observa nce. Let us read the Declaration in our Lod
halls for it embodie s those fundame ntal principle s of freedom h -g~
ic ~reemas onry teaches. Let us join all the citizens of our country inw.
rmg
mg the bells.
. On July 1 ~. a Declara tion of Independ ence observan ce will be held
·
·
o at h25. Van. Ness Avenue . The ev enmg
m San Francisc
program is
II M
and
music
asons, t e1r ladies and friends, and will include
open to a
two speeches on Freedom and the Declara tion of Independ enc e. I urge
all who can to attend.
This Proclama tion is to be read at each meeting betwee n now and
July 4, 1964.
Dated : June 19. 1964
Fraterna lly yours.
ELMER

w. HEALD

Grand M aster
Attest :
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand S ecretary

61

PROCEEDINGS OF T HE

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFO RNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

PROCLAMATION

February 6. 1964

60

ELMER W . HEALD
GRAND MASTER

ELMER W. HEALD
GRAND MASTER

CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH

At a few times in the over-all history of mankind, we seem to reach
certain high points in time, whene men are afforded the opportunity to
rise to great heights, meet the challenges of the times, and produce for
all posterity certain fundamental and everlasting concepts. Such a time
in history occurred during the Revolutionary War era, out o f which
emerged the Constitution of the United States, on September 17, 1787.
It was, and is, an ever-modern and living document, which contains
such basic, non-controversial and undeniably true principles for the
regulation of the conduct of man to man, that, if preserved, the freedom
and dignity of the individual American is forever secured. This is accomplished by the establishment of government under law, as opposed
to government by men, and by securing to each of us certain individual
basic rights under the law, which rights are as valuable today as they
were sought after by man before this great document was produced.
The tragic assassination of last November points up the undeniable
propriety of government by law, not by men, when the continuity of government was so graphically demonstrated at that time. However. this is
but a narrow application of the timeless truths contained in this document.
My Brethren , let us remember that men enjoy freedom only while
they are willing to fight for it, and if need be. to die for it, a nd are
vigilant to any deterioration in the form of that freedom . Let our
motto be:
"The Price of Liberty is Eternal Vigilance"
This observance should be planned to arouse community spirit and
interest. open to the public and sponsored by Lodges or districts or
both in conjunction with other organizations when or where this will
help in making the observance a complete success.
I therefore proclaim September 1964 to be Constitution Observance
Month, a nd direct every Lodge in this jurisdiction to commemorate our
Constitution with a public observance held on a date as close as possible
to the Anniversary date of September 17th.
The Proclamation shall be read at Stated Meetings during the
months of July and August 1964.
Dated : June 19, 1964
Sincerely and Fraternally yours,
Attest :
EDWARD H. SIEMS

ELMER W. HEALD

Grand Secretary

Grand Master

TO ALL CONSTITUENT LODGES
CHAIN LETTERS

A flood of chain letters has reached the office of the Grand Secretary.
Sending out chain letters or continuing a chain letter is a violation of
postal regulations.
Section 124.55 of the Postal Manual on non-mailable matter
reads
"Any libelous, scurrilous. defamatory or threatening language
whether written or printed or which by its manner or style of·
display is obviously intended to reflect injuriously on the character or conduct of another."
As good citizens we should be above this sort of practice. I am certain many who participate are not aware of the possible penalties involved. It could result in fine or imprisonment or both.
In order that all Masons are aware of this violation, it is requested
that this notice be read at the next Stated Meeting of your Lodge
following its rece4pt and that a notice be included in your next trestleboard.
A continuation of the practice of sending "chain letters" will be
deemed a violation of this order of the Grand Master and will be dealt
with accordingly.
Fraternally yours.
ELMER

w. HE.ALO

Grand Master
Attest :
EDWARD H . SIEMS

Grand Secretary

At 12 : I 0 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until I : 30 p.m.

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 12, 1964
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered hy the Grand Chaplain.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

63

M.·.w. ·.STANToN YouNGBERG,

Past Grand Master, Philippines.
W.' . FELIX A. LENHART.
Past Grand Treasurer, Czechoslouakia.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS

w: . WILLIAM J. PEEL,

The following Grand Masters were received with private Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master. and escorted to
seats:

W . '.WERNER HARTMAN,

Grand Marshal, Washington.
First Assistant Grand Lecturer of Manhattan District, New York.

M.'.W.'.C FuLLER DoRR.

Grand Master of Masons in Michigan.
M:.w.· .JoHN R. CoLLARD. JR ..

Grand Master of Masons in Texas.
M.'.W.'.EARL T. NEWBRY,

Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.
M.'.W.'.RAYMOND J. PEEL,

Grand Master of Masons in Washington.
M.'.W.'.FRANCIS N. FISHER,

Grand l'vf aster of Masons in Ne vada.
M.'.W.'.MORRIS E. SANFORD.

Grand Master of Masons in Montana.
M." W.' .JOHN P. HALLIWELL, JR.,

Grand Master of Masons in Idaho.
M.'. W.' .CARL S. GrLBERT,

Grand Master of Masons in Wyoming.
M.'.W.'.GEORGE 0. THORNE,
Grand Master of Masons in New Mexico.
M.'.W.'.W. LARKIN FITCH,

Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.

The following distinguished guests were received with public Grand
Honors. individually welcomed by the Grand Master and the Grand
Secretary, and escorted to seats:
W.'.M.' .SAMUEL

w. McINTOSH,

Past Grand Master, District of Columbia and Executive Secretary
of the Conference of Grand Masters.
M.'.W.'.HENRY F. COLLINS,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary. South Carolina.
V.'.W.'.HARVEY

c. BYRD,

Grand Secretary, Texas.
M.'.W.'.PAUL R. STEPHENS,
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary. Illinois.
V.'.W.'.DANIEL T. SIMMONS,

Grand Secretary. Washington.
M.'.W.'.ROYAL D. CROWELL,

Past Gral1d Master and Grand Secretary. Nevada.
M.'.W.'.HERBERT H. EBERLE,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary. Idaho.
v : .w:.CLARENcE M. GRosHELL.

Grand Secretary, Utah.
The following distinguished guests were received with public Grand
Honors. individually welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to
seats:
R.'.W.'.H. GREGORY McCULLOCH.

Deputy Grand Master, Nevada.
M.'.W.'.J. WILLIAM J. STEDMAN,

Past Grand fv!a ster. Washington.
M.' .W.' .c. A. CARLSON, JR ..
Past Grand Master, Neuada.
M.'.W.'.WILLIAM H. TAYLOR,

Past Grand Master, Philippines.

M.'.W.'.GERALD I. CRAIG,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary, Arizona.
The Grand Master requested Most Worshipful C. Fuller Dorr,
Grand Master of Masons in Michigan. to speak in hehalf of the visiting
distinguished guests. He gave an inspiring address on the needs of
Masonry and on our Masonic heritage. The Grand Master then called on
Past Grand Master Louis C. Drapeau for a response and he responded
on behalf of the members of Grand Lodge.

64

PROC EEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

RESOLUTIO NS

ELIMINATE HOMES CONTRIBU TION BY AFFILIATES
(2)

The Grand Secreta ry presented the following resolutions which
were referred by the Grand Master to the committees noted :

INCLUDE MAILING OF GRAND MASTER'S DECISIONS
(1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. it is the duty of the Gra nd Lodge at its Annual
Communicatio n to act upon all the resolutions, recommendatio ns and
decisions made by the Grand Ma ster since the last Annual Communications; and
WHEREAS, it is the duty of the Grand Secretary to send to each
Lodge copies of the resolutions and recommendatio ns that have been
lawfully presented to him for the consideration of G rand Lodge at its
Annua l Communication ; and
WHEREAS, the decisions made by the Grand M as ter since the
last Annual Communicatio n are not sent along with these resolutions
and recommendatio ns sent by the Grand Secretary but are presented at
the opening of the Annual Communicatio n in printed form to the M asters of the Constituent Lodges and then verba lly to the membership,
as a whole, in the Grand Master's Message; and
WHEREAS. the membership of Grand Lodge could better understand the contents of these decisions of the Grand Master and could
better approve or disapprove them if given an opportunity to peruse
them in advance;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 15019th be amended by inserting the following after the words of that
Section "presented to him" the following words: "and also a copy of
the decisions of the Grand Master made 90 days prior to the commencement date of the Annual Communicatio n."
S ection I S0-19th would then read:
To transmit, at least 60 days prior to the commencemen t da te of
the next Annual Communication , a copy of each and every resolution
and recommenda tion lawfully presented to him and a lso a copy of the
decisions of the Grand M aster made 90 days prior to the commencement date of the Annual Communication . to the M as ters of the several
Lodges , Inspectors and Members of the Committees of Jurisprudence.
Policy and General Purposes and Finance .
Respectfully submitted .
WILLIAM C. KUNZ, P .M .. No. 673
RoBERT VAN HEEKEREN. P.M., No. 673
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

65

To the M ost W orshipful Grand Lodge F . & A . M . of California:
WHEREAS . many of our members feel that the twenty-five dollar
contribution to the Masonic Homes of California is an obstacle in
obtaining Applications for Affiliation from our sojourning Brethren ,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that section 284 of the California Masonic Code be deleted except " each applicant for the deg rees
shall accompany the petition with a contribution of twenty-five dollars
for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes of California.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM E. RIPE, P .M. , No. 736
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. on F inance. and to the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes.

FLAG PRESENTA TION EACH ST A TED MEETING
(3)
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. in our charges to the candidate we admonish them
never to lose sight of the allegiance due to our country: and
WHEREAS. as Masons we should regularly pay respect to the
Flag of our country and what it stands for : and
WHEREAS . according to Section 329-A and 554-W of the C alifornia Masonic Code, the Flag is only required to be presented with
formal ceremonies at the annual election of officers .
N O W THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED . that the last sentence
of Section 329-A and 554-W be amended to read:
At each stated meeting. and at such other meetings as may be
deemed desirable by the Master, the Flag shall be formally presented
at the Altar by the Marshal and receive d in the manner prescribed by
the Grand Lecturer.
LEROI E . CRANDALL, M .. No. 605
EUGENE T . R. TENBRINK.
S. W ., N o. 605
FRANZ JoHN VALDIN,
P.M .. No. 605

Respectfully s ubmitted.
GEORGE M. HALEY,/. W ., No. 605
MARVIN F . GRAHAM .
P.M. , No. 605
NORMAL E. REED. P.M .. No. 605

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes. and on
Ritual.

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK COMMITTEEDEFINITION OF RESPONSIBILITY
(4)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Masonic Lodges of this jurisdiction have for 45
years professed to support the Public Schools of our State; and
WHEREAS, each year our Grand Master proclaims "Public
~chools Week," and sends out to the constituent Lodges this proclamation; and
W.~EREAS . a large majority of the Lodges hold a "Public Schools
Week program, and then promptly forget the Public Schools the other
51 weeks of the year; now
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 331 of the California Masonic Code be amended by adding a paragraph thereto. to
read:
" That each constituent lodge of this jurisdiction appoint a 'Committee on Public Schools' to actively work with the Boards of Education (one or more members to attend meetings of the School Boards).
faculty and/or other official organizations of the Public Schools. That
this committee report to each Stated Meeting of their respective lodges,
and that each lodge make a quarterly report to Grand Lodge. That
there be a report of these committees published for each communication
of Grand Lodge."
Respectfully submitted.
RALPH L. WILLIAMS,
RI CHARD BLUM. P.M.. No. 729
P.M., No. 729
KENNETH WILLIAMS,
ALBERT A. WALTERS,
P.M .. No. 729
P .M .. No. 729
}AMES R. ROLLANS, P.M., No. 729
HERBERT T. GoJNs. P.M .. No. 729 }AMES H . SMITH, P.M.. No. 729
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Public Schools.

MASONIC PLAQUE OR SIGN WITH EMBLEM
AT ENTRANCE TO CITY
(5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Masonic Lodges are proud of their existence as evidenced by their display of emblems on Temples, notices of meetings
and activities in newspapers. and
WHEREAS, the Grand Master 's Special Commission on M asonic
~ra ctices has st~ted "that we are failing dismally and disastrously to
inform the public of today what Masonry is and what it s tands for.
Far worse than opposition, we face wide ignorance of the very existence of our Fraternity," and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

WHEREAS. there appears to be no valid reason why a Masonic
Lodge should not be allowed if it so desires to place at the entrances
of a city or town a dignified and well maintained sign or plaque exhibiting a Masonic emblem and giving the name and number of the Lod ge.
and/or where and when it meets thus notifying traveling Masons a~d
the public in general that there is an active Masonic Lodge in that city
or town,
RESOLVED. that subsection S of Sec. 333 CMC be repealed.
Respectfully ·s ubmitted,
J. B. WHITEHEAD, P .M .. No. 402 SAMUEL W. REIMAN, M .• No. 425
W. M. WILLIAMS, P .M .. No. 425
HARRY R. SONES, P.M .. No. 384
HowARD K. ROBIN, P.M .. No. 390
CLYDE D. CHAMBERS,
G. T. DUNCAN, M., No. 402
P.M .. No. 384
Joi-IN E. BOWMAN, P.M.. No. 384 F. W. FLA NAGAN , M .. No. 390
H. C. F1sH, M., No. 384
MARSHALL C. NORRIS,
PERCY E. PALMER, P.M .. No. 402
P.M .. No. 390
390
No.
..
CLYDE E. RODGERS. P.M
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

MASONIC PLAQUE OR SIGN WITH EMBLEM
AT ENTRANCE TO CITY
(6)
To the M ost W orshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, it is in the spirit of M asonry to broaden the universality of its a¢peal. and
WHEREAS, such spirit can be manifest by a public gesture of
welcome to Master Masons who are visiting or moving to a new loca l~
ity in the jurisdiction in which a duly established Masonic Lodge (or
Lodges) exists. and
WHEREAS. it would be helpful to visitors to know the time, date,
and location of the Stated Meetings of such local Lodges,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1. That Section 333-S of the M asonic Code be rescinded.
2. Any duly constituted Masonic Lodge, operating under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of the State of California , individuaHy or
jointly with other Masonic Lodges in the same District or geographica l
area, may erect. or cause to be erected, an outdoor sign bearing M asonic
insignia . containing details as to meetings. and extending a welcome to
Master Masons to attend.
3. The Inspector ( s) concerned, acting as a representative of Grand
Lodge, will satisfy himself (themselves) that the location of any such
sign (preferably at the geographical limits of a city or town) and
quality (sufficiently durable to maintain a good appearance under all
weather condWons) are appropriate to a favorable public impression

68

PROCEEDINGS OP THi

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

of the Masonic Fraternity. and. also . that all legal requirements have
been met. The cost of such ·s igns. their erection and maintenance, will
be borne by the local Lodge. or if more than one Lodge participates.
equally by those involved.
Respectfully submitted,
PAUL F. SEIDEL, M .. No. 226
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence , on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Finance.

WHEREAS. the California Masonic Code prohibits the publication in trestle boards of the names of candidates and the times when
they are to receive their degrees; and
WHEREAS, such publication is permitted in many other jurisdictions in the interests of their Lodges and their candidates; and
WHEREAS, the trestle boards of Lodges are circulated only among
members of the particular Lodges and such other brethren as may be
properly entitled to receive the same: and
WHEREAS. the publication of the na mes of candidates and the
dates when they will receive their degrees will stimulate interest in
Masonry and will increase Lodge attendance,
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Lodges be
permitted to publish in their respective trestle boards the names of their
candidates and the dates when they are to receive their various degrees
and accordingly that sections 518-e and 334-g of the California Masonic Code be repealed .
Respectfully submitted.
MAURICE A . HARBAND, M .. No. 120
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

PUBUSH NAMES OF ELECTED CANDIDA TES
(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS, the Master of San Diego Lodge No. 35 has appointed
a Committee on Masonic Practices which has met on several occasions
and discussed various problems including that of attendance of members during degrees, and
WHEREAS, the members of said committee unanimously believe
that increased attendance at the conferral of degrees may be aq:omplished by permitting the candidates' names to be printed in Lodge bulletins and sent to the Lodge's members through the U. S. Mail.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that Section 334 CMC be
amended to add the following words at the end of said section:
"A Lodge shall have the authority to inform its members by U. S.
Mail in the Lodge bulletin or otherwise of the names of applicants for
the degrees and it shall have the authority to so inform its members as
to the names of candidates and the dates of conferral of the several
degrees."
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES H. LEACH. P.M .. No. 35
GLENN K. SMITH, M., No. 35
R. H. ELLIOTT, P.M .. No. 35
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

PUBUSH NAMES OF ELECTED CANDIDA TES
(8)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the lack of attendance at Lodge meetings, as indicated
in the Report of the Special Commission on Masonic Practices. presents
a serious problem; and
WHEREAS. poor attendance at meetings when degrees are conferred creates an unfavorable impression of the fraternity in the mind
of the candidate ; and
WHEREAS. many brethren. to their regret, fail to attend the initiation, passing and particularly the raising of candidates with whom they
are very friendly, because they are not informed of the conferring of
such degrees; and

69

SOLICITATION OF CERTAIN ADVERTISING
(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Section 334 of the C.M .C. provides that "No Lodge,
or member of a Lodge. shall solicit, sponsor. insert, place or print advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication. which purports
to be Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for
any body, order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership" ; and
WHEREAS , the medium of advertising is an acknowledged method
of informing persons of honorable and free enterprise: and
WHEREAS. the loss of respectable revenue has so limited the
financial ability of Masonic bodies to publicize or carry on their good
works that Masonry has substantially suffered: and
WHEREAS, churches or places of holy worship have recognized
that individuals who are made familiar with the value of good products
through the medium of advertising and are the mutual recipients of
substantial benefits;
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that Section 334 be amended
to read :
No Lodge, or member of a Lodge. shall solicit, sponsor, insert,
place or print advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication that might bring discredit to the good name of Masonry or prove

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to be less than beneficial to any person who might be influenced to
attend, use or purchase the items so advertised.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. th at all other references contained in our laws, rules, regulations, edicts, decisions, or any other
ma tter on this subject, written or unwritten, having the force of law
which are contrary hereto are rescinded.
Respectfully submitted.
F. J. BoLTRES, P.M.. No. 732
SHIRLEY K. McMuLLIN,
HERMAN T. S1Lvms, Jn ..
P.M.. No. 57
P.M., No. 20
J. M. DAW, P.M., No. 57
A. B. COLLIER, P.M .. No. 40
HAROLD C. BRUNER, P.M .. No. 57
R. W. KLAIBER, P .M .. No. 786
J. M. CooPER, P.M., No. 57
JoHN M. LEE, P.M .. No. 579
M. M. HODAPP, P.M., No. 57
G. C. McKINLEY, P.M., No. 3
LLOYD F. WHITE, P .M.. No. 3
R. L. BRADEN, P.M., No. 40
LESTER G. BRUNO, P.M .. No. 499
RONALD M. CATE, P.M.. No. 40
JAcK D. SHRADER, P.M .. No. 20
A. F. ScHANCE, P.M .. No. 20
JoHN S. VINING, P.M.. No. 40
R. FRANCIS FRAZER, P.M.. No. 20 BERT E. GErsREITER, P.M.. No. 20
HAROLD S. PARKER, P.M .. No. 20 VOLNEY V. SCOTT, P .M .. No. 40
H. C. SCHRODER, P.M., No. 3
WILLIAM M. BOYLE, P.M .. No. 40
WILLIAM M. THIELBAHR,
EUGENE L. ROGERS,
P.M .. No. 40
P.M .. No. 499
FRANK P. LEMEN, P.M., No. 613 H. H. HENDREN, P .M .. No. 613
H . F. BENNING, P.M.. No. 40
RAYMOND A. EBBAGE,
CHAS. E. SUTFIN, P.M.. No. 40
P.M .. No. 499
C. EARL STEWART, P.M.. No. 208 JAMES H. LEACH, P.M .. No. 35
WALTER K. JANSEN, P.M .. No. 32 WALTERS. PoTTs. P.M .. No. 35
THOMAS E. PARSONS,
W. F. EHMCKE, P.M .. No. 35
P.M .. No. 736
}oHN CooK, P.M., No. 35
GLENN K. SMITH, M., No. 35
VIERLING KERSEY. P.M .. No. 698
R. H. ELLIOTT, P.M .. No. 35
RALPH E. FuLBERSON.
HAROLD J. KIRCHER, P .M .. No. 35
P.M .. No. 513
ROBERT B. JAMES, P.M.. No. 35
RICHARD R. KENNEDY,
FRANK R. BRUNNER,
P.M .. No. 698
P.M .. No. 392
EARLE A. GRAY, P.M.. No. 767
RAYMON N. MILLER,
D. G. EDMONSTON, P.M.. No. 458
P.M .. No. 202
T. H. BALLIET, P.M .. No. 461
DAVID H. TERRY, P.M .. No. 320
JoHN BUCHANAN, P.M .. No. 525
WILLIAM B. MoTT, P.M., No. 458 WILLIAM A. COHENDET,
GILBERT A. BENOIT,
P.M .. No. 370
P.M .. No. 260
JAMES E . LEWIS, P.M .. No. 458
EDWIN W. BoDE, P.M., No. 370
MILTON J. KREBS, P.M., No. 351
EDWARD E. SMITH, P.M., No. 454 ELMER P. BROMLEY,
THEODORE E. R ACKERBY,
P.M., No. 698
P.M .. No. 22
R. S. PETERS, P.M., No. 22
GEORGE K. CALVIN, P.M.. No. 513 FRANCIS D. DELONG,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

P.M .. No. 554
H oWARD LA NGWORTHY.
CLARENCE A. SEVERIN,
P.M.. No. 768
P.M .. No. 61
FoRREST T . C. G1sT,
R. I. JoNES, S. W .. No. 61
P.M., No. 356
CLARE W. W1LsON, Jn ..
RANDOLPH M. Rosso.
P.M .. No. 410
P.M .. No. 30
RAFORD w . LEGGETT,
PIETER A. DE VRIES,
P.M .. No. 57
P.M.. No. 435
CHARLES D . SMALL, P.M.. No. 61 KARL F. STOLTING, P.M., No. 57
L. H . DIBBLE , P.M.. No. 752
LEABERT C. H AWKINSON,
IRA F. BROWN. P.M .. No. 57
M .. No. 61
D. C. DAW, P.M .. No. 57
GEORGE C. CoURREGES,
}OHN KELLY, P.M., No. 145
P.M.. No. 349
EDWARD T. KoFORD , P.M.. No. 57 R. G. MECKFESSEL, P.M .. No. 182
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Commer cialism.

VARIED INITIATION FEE
{10)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, it is well known t hat the fraternity is not attracting
young men to apply for the degrees of Masonry due to h igh initiation
fees, and
WHEREAS, it is also well known that men in the early stages of
manhood have many financial problems due to raising families and
establishing ho·mes, and
WHEREAS, it is our duty to make Masonry attr active to men who
have all the necessary attributes to be good Masons, and
WHEREAS, young men who have been DeMolays do not petition for the degrees of Masonry because they cannot afford our high
.
fees, and
WHEREAS, many lodges desire a flexible initiation fee that they
may present to young men.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Article 8. Section I of
the Uniform Code of By-Laws be changed from
Article VIII, Section 1 : The table of fees for this Lodge shall b e
as follows: For the three degrees, the sum of ................ dollars; for the
degrees of Fellow Craft and Master Mason, when the first degree shall
have been received in another Lodge, the s um of ................ dollars; for
the degree of M aster Mason, when the first and second degrees shall
have been received in another Lodge, the sum of ................ dollars; and
for affiliation the ·s um of ................ dollars, except tha t the affiliation
fee shall be .. .............. dollars if the dimit accomp anying the application
is issued by ...... .......... (Here insert "this Lodge" or a "Lodge of this
jurisdiction," or any other special classification desired).

72

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

To:
Article VIII. Section 1 : The table of fees for this Lodge shall be
as follows: For the three degrees, the sum of ·····-······---- dollars; for the
degrees of Fellow Craft and Master Mason, when the first degree shall
have been received in another Lodge, the sum of -··------------- dollars; for
th degree of Master Mason, when the first and second degrees shall
have been received in another Lodge. the sum of ---------------- dollars; and
for affiliation the sum of ·--------·------ dollars. except that the affiliation fee
shall be --·-·--------·-- dollars if the dimit accompanying the application is
issued by -·--·--·····---- (Here insert "this Lodge" or a "Lodge of this
jurisdiction," or any other special classification desired).
Or:
Article VIII, Section 1. The table of fees for this Lodge shall be as
follows: For the three degrees when the applicant's age shall be -----·-·
years to --·----- years inclusive the sum of --------------·- dollars, when the
applicant's age shall be -·-··-·· years to ........ years inclusive the sum of
--------·--····- dollars, when the applicant's age shall be ........ years or more
the sum of ---·---········- dollars, for the degrees of Fellow Craft and
Master Mason, when the first degree shall have been received in another Lodge the sum of ·····---··--·--- dollars; for the degree of Master
Mason when the first and second degrees shall have been received in
another Lodge the sum of ·---·--·-·--··-· dollars and for affiliation the sum
of ----------···-·· dollars, except that the affiliation fee ·shall be -··--··-··--·--·
dollars if the <limit accompanying the application is issued by ········---·-···
(Here insert "this Lodge" or "a Lodge of this jurisdiction," or any
other special classification desired).
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES R YOUNG, P.M .. No. 652
C. Ross THORN, M., No. 652
ULEs N. HERNDON, P.M., No. 652
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

VA RIED INITIATION FEE
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. it is in the interest of our noble and ancient craft to
encourage young men to petition for entrance into the fraternity; and.
WHEREAS, the report of the Special Commission on Masonic Practices indicated a constantly falling ratio of Masonic membership to
general population; and.
WHEREAS. the same commission reported (on page 7) that young
men between the ages of 21 and 30 petition for entrance in relatively
small numbers; and,
WHEREAS. The Most Worshipful Grand Master in his message
to the Craft in the Spring 1964 California Freemason urges that thought

73

be given to attracting young men to membership in the fraternal organization,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the following
paragraph shall be added to Section 552 of the California Masonic
Code:
The maximum fee which a Lodge may levy for conferring the three
degrees on young men between the ages of 21 years and 31 years shall
not exceed a total of $50.00.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD A. WEIRICK,
FRANK A. MACHNER,
S.W .. No. 649
f.W .. No. 649
NoRVAL C. BARRETT. M .. No. 649
HAROLD P. FOLEY, M .. No. 423
GEORGE W. LISK. P.M., No. 649
NORMAN J. ALLSBERRY,
S.W .. No. 397
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

AUTHORIZE GRAND MASTER TO APPOINT SPECIAL
COMMITTEE TO STUDY SECTION 408 C.M.C. AND
RECOMMENDS AGAINST RATIFICATION OF
GRAND MASTER'S DECISION NO. 7
(12)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, at the time Section 408 of the C.M.C. was made law.
its subject matter was prohibited by the laws of the United States of
America; and ·
WHEREAS, the passing of time has brought about a change in the
law and opinion of proper social and moral conduct in relation to the
serving and consumption of spiritous, malt or fermented liquors; and
WHEREAS, decisions of Grand Masters over the years have been
based on this section that may prove to be obsolete thus making them
contradictory to the Fraternal and Membership interest; and
WHEREAS, it is obvious that restraint be exercised on some occasions and in certain places but that the intent should be confined to
Masonic Temples and regular Blue Lodge Meetings as well as the concordant bodies of Masonry;
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that a committee be appointed by the Grand Master for the purpose of making a study of Section
408 of C.M.C., to recommend amendment where proper and to make
clear the intent and authority of this section over organizations not considered concordant or properties whose title is not held by Grand Lodge
or its concordant bodies; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Decision No. 7 of Grand
Master Elmer Heald relating to the above be not ratified but held in

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

abeyance until such time as the results of the special committee be made
available and/or adopted.

AUTHORIZE GRAND MASTER TO APPOINT SPECIAL
COMMITTEE TO STUDY SECTION 408 C.M.C. AND
RECOMMENDS AGAINST RATIFICATION OF GRAND
MASTER'S DECISION NO. 7 AND RESCIND ALL
LAWS, RULES, EDICTS, REGULATIO NS AND
DECISIONS ON THE SUBJECT HAVING
THE FORCE OF LAW
(13)

74

Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS E. PARSONS,
HAROLD C. BRUNER, P.M .. No. 57
P.M., No. 736
EuGEN E B. PERSONETT,
GLENN K. SMITH, M., No. 35
M., No. 752
R. H . ELLIOTT, P.M .. No. 35
SHIRLEY K. McMuLLIN ,
WILLIAM R1FE, P.M .. No. 736
P .M .. No. 57
JOH N CooK. P.M .. No. 35
EDWARD T. KoFORD,
FRANK R. BRUNNER,
P.M .. No. 57
P.M.. No. 392
L. H . DmBLE, P.M .. No. 752
RAYMON N. MILLER,
F. L. MANKIN, P.M .. No. 57
P .M .. No. 202
D. DAW. P.M .. No. 57
DAVID H. TERRY, P.M .. No. 320
M. M. HODAPP, P.M.. No. 57
JAM ES H. LEACH, P .M .. No. 35
R. G. MECKFESSEL. P.M.. No. 182
WALTERS. PoTTs. P .M .. No. 35
D. G. EDMONSTON, P.M .. N o. 458
W . F. fa·IMCKE, P.M .. No. 35
T . H. BALLIET, P.M.. No. 461
HAROLD J. KIRCHER, P.M .. No. 35 JOHN BUCHANAN, P.M .. No. 525
ROBERT B. JAMES, P.M.. N o. 35
WILLIAM A. CoHENDET,
RALPH E. FuLBERSON,
P.M., No. 370
P.M .. No. 513
JAMES E. LEWIS, P.M .. No. 458
R1cHARD R. KENNEDY,
MILTON J. KREBS, P.M .. No. 35
P.M., No. 698
ELMER P. BROMLEY,
EARL A. GRAY, P .M.. No. 767
P .M.. No. 698
WILLIAM B. MoTT, P.M .. No. 458 R . S. PETERS, P.M.. No. 22
GILBERT A. BENOIT,
FRANCIS D. DELONG,
P.M., No. 260
P.M .. N o. 554
EDWIN W. BooE, P.M., No. 370
CLARENCE A. SEVERIN,
EDWARD E. SMITH , P.M .. No. 454
P.M .. No. 61
T. E. RACKERBY, P.M.. No. 22
R. I. JONES, S. W .. N o. 61
GEORGE K. CALVIN, P .M.. No. 513 CLARE W. WILSON, JR.,
HOWARD LANGWORTH,
P.M.• No. 410
P.M .. No. 768
RAFORD W . LEGGETT,
FORREST T. C. G1sT,
P.M .. No. 57
P.M .. No. 356
I. GREGG WILLIAMS, P.M.. No. 57
RANDOLPH M. Rosso.
CoNDOL E. HOKE, M .. No. 57
P.M., No. 30
J. M . DAW, P.M .• No. 57
PIETER A. DEVRIES, P.M .. No. 435 KARL F . SrnLTING, P.M., No. 57
CHARLES D. SMALL, P.M .. No. 61 IRA F. BROWN, P.M., No. 57
LEABERT
HAW KINSON.
R. w . ZELLER.
M .. No. 61
P .M.. No. 57
GEORGE C. CoURREGES,
J. M. COOPER, P.M.. No. 57
P.M.. No. 349
JoHN K ELLY, P .M .. No. 145
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

c.

75

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. a t the time Section 408 of the C.M.C. . was made law.
its subject matter was prohibited by the laws of the United States of
America; and
WHEREAS, the passing of time has brought about a change in
the law and opinion of proper social and moral conduct in relation to the
serving and consumption of spiritous. malt or fermented liquors; and
WHEREAS. decisions of Grand Masters o ver the years have been
based on th is section that may prove to be obsolete thus making them
contradictory to the Fraternal and Membership interest; and
WHEREAS. it is obvious that restraint be exercised on some
occasions and in certain places but that the intent should be confined
to Masonic Temple and regular Blue Lodge Meetings as well as the
concordant bodies of Masonry;
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED . that a committee be appointed by the Grand Master for the purpose of making a study of
Section 408 of C.M.C .. to recommend amendment where proper and to
make clear the intent and authority o f this section over organizations
not considered concordant or properties whose title is not held by Grand
Lodge or its concordant bodies; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that Decision #7 o f Grand
Master Elmer Heald relating to the above be not ratified but held in
abeyance until such time as the results o f th e special committee be made
available and/ or adopted; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that all other references contained in o ur laws. rules, regulations. edicts, decisions or any other
matter on this subject. w ritten or unwritten. having the force of law,
which are contrary hereto are rescinded.
Respectfully submitted.
F. J. BoLTREs. P.M .. No. 732
WALTER K. JENSEN, P.M .. No. 32
HERMAN T . SILVIUS, JR..
VOLNEY V. SCOTT, P.M., No. 40
P.M .. No. 20
G. C. M c K1NLEY, P.M .. No. 3
A. B. COLLIER, P.M .. No. 40
R. L. BRADEN, P.M.. No. 40
R. W. KLAIBER, P.M .. No. 786
RONALD M. CATE, P.M .. No. 4-0
A. F. ScHANCE, P.M .. No. 20
LLOYD F. WHITE, P.M .. No. 3

76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

R. FRANCIS FRAZER. P .M., No. 20
HAROLD S . PARKER, P.M .. No. 20
H. C. SCHRODER, P.M .. No. 3
WILLIAM M. THIELBAHR,
P.M .. No. 40
H. F. BENNING, P .M ., No. 40
CHAS. E. SUTFIN. P.M .. No. 40
CHARLES E. STEWART,
P.M .. No. 208

LESTER G. BRUNO. P.M., No. 499
JACK D. SHRADER, P .M .. No. 20.
JOHN S. VINING. P.M., No. 40
BERTE. GEISREITER. P.M., No. 20
WILLIAM M . BovLE. P .M .. No. 40
EUGENE L. ROGERS, P.M .. No. 499
H. H. HENDREN, P .M .. No. 613
RAYMOND A. EBBAGE.
P.M .. No. 499

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General Purposes.

EXPENDITURE LODGE FUNDS TO CHARTER
CHAPTER OF ORDER OF DeMOLAY
(14)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the Report of the Special Commission on Masonic
Practices in 1963 which was ordered under the direction of Past Grand
Master Ira W. Coburn reported that 91 o/o of all Masons queried were
strongly in favor of broadening and expanding the present permissive
areas for the financial assistance of both boys' and girls' youth groups;
and
WHEREAS. the California Masonic Code section 41 le and 412u
states, " Lodge funds may not be used in connection with the sponsoring
of the Order of DeMolay"; and
WHEREAS. Lodges are allowed to purchase equipment for presentation to new Lodges and Cornerstones for Cornerstone Ceremonies;
where can a more appropriate cornerstone be laid than of sponsoring
the Order of DeMolay.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 41le and 412u
be amended by the addition of the following: "Except for the necessary
fee established by the Supreme Council Order of DeMolay for Chartering a Chapter of the Order of DeMolay."
Respectfully submitted.
HOMER DAVIS, M .. No. 381
CLARENCE THOMPSON.
S.W .. No. 381
CARL WHITEFORD, J. W .. No. 381
DOUGLAS M. CRAIG, P.M., No. 381
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes. on Finance, and on DeMolay.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

77

SPLIT LETTER IN LIEU OF ORAL EXAMINATION
(15)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. many of our elderly ·s ojourning Brethren who have not
attended Lodge for several years do not attend because they fea r an
examination. and
WHEREAS, it is our duty a s Masons to stretch forth a helping
hand to our sojourning Brethren who might have forgotten our signs
and passwords to visit our Lodges, and
WHEREAS, our promise is to communicate with our Masonic
Brethren after due examination or legal information.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED . that section 439 of the California Masonic Code be amended as follows: Following the words, "by
private examination under the test oath," by s plit letter from the visiting
.Brother's Lodge. one portion being sent to the Brother. the other to the
Lodge being visited, or by avouchment.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM E. RIFE, P.M .. No. 736
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes. on Ritual. and on Sojourners.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
(16)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHERE,AS. the custom of refusing a dmission to a physically imperfect applicant came to be developed during the old days of operative
Masonry. when the work on the erection of stone edifices was both
arduous and hazardous. and a physically impaired workman constituted
a da nger to hims elf and to his fellow workers, and liable to become a
burden to his Lodge or Guild, and
WHEREAS . we no longer work in operative Masonry but speculative only. these physical requirements are now obsolete, and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California possesses legislative
powers w hich extend to every case of legislation not expressly delegated
by itself to the Lodges. The Constitution, Regulations and Uniform
Code of By-Laws for Lodges, which the Grand Lodge has an inalienable
right to adopt and promulgate at its own convenience, and to alter.
amend, or repeal at its own pleasure. limited only by a strict adherence
to the Ancient Landmarks of the Order. are final and binding upon all
Lodges and Masons within its jurisdiction until so al tered, amended , or
repealed.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, tha t Section 512 (not including sub-paragraphs a to j inclusive) of the California Masonic Code be
amended as follows:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"512. Sound discretion required. The question as to the physical
sufficiency of the Applicant shall be left to the sound discretion of the
Lodge. When the applicant is unable to comply literally with the physical
requirements, the Master shall state the nature and extent of his disabilities to the Lodge before ballot is taken. The loss of the left forearm
would not constitute physically disqualifying an applicant for the degrees
of Masonry. (Former RD. Sec. 209.)"
Respectfully submitted,
L. M. CowAN, JR .. S. W., No. 603
DANA A. TURPIN. S .W., No. 336
DAVID R. RODGER. S. W .. No. 497
}AMES A. DAv1s, S. W .. No. 610
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

tions which are inconsistent with the effects of this Fesolution.
Respectfully submitted,
RICHA RD R. KENNEDY, P.M.
L. " N1cK" CARTER, M.
WILLIAM w. HAMILTON, P.M.
LEGERTON, P.M.
CURTIS
WALTERS. KISSELBU RGH, P.M.
ARTHUR M . LoOMIS, P.M.
GoRDON A. Eurs. P.M.
WYBREN HIEMSTRA, P.M.
LAWRENCE G . WALLACE, P.M.
VIERLING KERSEY, P.M.
The foregoing Resolution was unanimously adopted by the members
of William D . Stephens Lodge No. 698 assembled at a stated meeting of
such Lodge under date of June 2, 1964.
Attest: GROVER C. "DAN" FAYLES, P.M., Secretary
Refer red to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and Ge neral Purposes.

78

EXTEND ST A TEWIDE TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
TO ALL LODGES
(17)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The purposes of this resolution are to extend statewide territorial
jurisdiction to a ll Lodges and to eliminate the I 0 mile limit and the
requirement for waiver of jurisdiction. The present procedure on waiver
causes delay by requiring that an application be processed through two
different Lodges when the Lodge receiving the application. through
proper diligence, could safely investigate the applicant. Also, modern
travel and communication facilities reduce the hazards of distance. so to
compel a prospective applicant to seek membership in a Lodge wit hin
I 0 miles of his residence, when he perhaps knows not one member, is
not conducive to membership increase about which we are concerned
today. Nor, does an active, virile Lodge need protecting by exclusive
jurisdiction.
To effect the purposes of this resolution will require many changes
in our Code.
We therefore present the following:
RESOLVED: That Sections of the California Masonic Code be
amended , as follows:
Sec. 517- Strike the words" ... and within the jurisdiction of the
Lodge during six months . . . "
Sec. 518-Repeal.
Sec. 519-Repeal.
Sec. 522- Repeal.
Sec . 524-Repeal.
Sec. 527-6-Strike the words " ... and the place above named more
than six months .. .''
RESOLVED. further, that the Code Commission be directed to
eliminate, in whole or in part, all annotations under the foregoing sec-

c.

•

79

c.

CONCURRENT JURISDICTION AND PUBLICATION
(18)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the custom to promote interest and good fellowship
among the Lodge brethren and candidates for degrees are extremely
important in this present day and age, and
WHEREAS. many Blue Lodge Brothers have been denied the
opportunity to participate in their friends ' degrees due to present communications within their respective Lodges,
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED . that Section 518 (not including sub-paragraph s a to f inclusive) of the California Masonic Code
be amended as follows:
" 518. Concurrent jurisdiction. If two or more Lodges are located
within the corporate limits of any city, town , or place they shall have
concurrent jurisdiction therein. Any of them can receive and act on the
application for degrees of residents thereof or persons residing nearer
thereto than to any other place where a Masonic Lodge exists . Each of
such Lodges has separate jurisdiction over its own members. and concurrent jurisdiction over all Masons not members of one of them. who
reside in such city, tQ'..vn or place, or nearer thereto than to any other
place where a Lodge exists. and each shall within ten days after receipt
of an application by the Lodge notify such other Lodge or Lodges of
any application it may receive for degrees or affiliation and waiver of
jurisdiction. That it is within the Lodge's discretion to publish the name
of candidates for the date of conferring of the Fellowcraft and Master
Mason degree in their respective Lodge bulletin. ( 1962) (Former R. D.
Sec. 214. )"
Respect£ ully submitted,
}AMES A. D AVIS, S. W .. No. 610
DANA A. TURPIN, S. W., No. 336
L. M . CowAN, JR .. S. W .. No. 603 DAVID R. RoDGER, S. W., No. 497
Referred to Committees on Jurisprud ence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

80

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

LIMIT PROMISE IN QUESTION 15 TO PROFICIENCY
(19)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California requires as a part of
Section 527 of the C.M.C. (Form of Application for Degrees) under
Question No. 15 the following:
"Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any
degree or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or organization the
prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master
Mason, until you have given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge, that you are entirely proficient and wellqualified in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason
and in no event within twelve months after you have received the
Degree of Master Mason?" and
WHEREAS. the portion which reads, "and in no event within
twelve months after you have received the Degree of Master Mason."
was designed for the purpose of retaining the newly raised brother's
interest and attendance in his Blue Lodge; and
WHEREAS. it has not a<:complished its purpose but has in fact
allowed a period of Masonic inactivity during which time our brethren
have turned to other interests and grown further away from their
Masonic involvement; and
WHEREAS. it i-s believed that voluntary activity promoted by an
attractive program as well as the cooperation of all Masonic bodies one
with another. will better serve our Masonic purpose;
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that Section 527 be amended
to delete from Question No. 15 the words "and. in no event within twelve
months after you have received the Degree of Master Mason?" and
shall hereafter read:
Do you promi·s e that you will not apply for or receive any
degree or be initiated in any Lodge. Order or organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master
Mason, until you have given satisfactory evidence. by strict examination in open Lodge. that you are entirely proficient and wellqualified in the Candidate's Lecture of Master Mason?
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that all other references contained in our laws. rules. regulations, edicts, decisions, or any other
matter on this subject, written or unwritten, having the force of law.
which are contrary hereto are rescinded.
THOMAS E. p ARSONS,
P.M., No. 736
WALTERS. PoTTs. P.M .. No. 35

Respectfully submitted.
T. H. BALLIET, P.M .. No. 461
EDWIN W. BoDE, P.M .. No. 370
GEORGE K. CALVIN, P.M .. No. 513

81

JAMES E . LEWIS, P.M .. No. 458
GLENN K. SMITH, M .. No. 35
MILTON J. KREBS , P.M ., No. 351
R.H. ELLIOTf. P .M., No. 35
EDWARD
E . SMITH, P.M., No. 454
JAMES H. LEACH. P.M .. No. 35
WILLIAM
A. COHENDET,
F. EHMCKE, P.M., No. 35
P .M .. No. 370
WILLIAM RIFE. P.M .. No. 736
HAROLD J. KIRCHER. P .M .. No. 35 THEODORE E. RACKERBY,
P.M ., No. 22
JoHN CooK . P.M., No. 35
R.
S. PETERS. P.M., No. 22
RoBERT B. }AMES. P.M .. No. 35
FORREST
T. C. G1sT. P.M., No. 356
HowARD LANGWORTHY.
RANDOLPH
M. Rosso. P.M .. No.30
P.M.. No. 768
FRANCIS D. DELoNG,
VIERLING KERSEY, P.M .. No. 698
P.M .. No. 554
ELMER P. BROMLEY , P.M .. No. 698
PIETER
A. DE VRIES, P.M .. No. 4 35
FRANK R. BRUNNER. P.M .. No.392
CLAREN
CE A. SEVERIN,
RALPH E. FuLBERSON.
P
.M.,
No. 61
P.M.. No. 513
CHARLES D. SMALL, P.M .. No. 61
RAYMON N. MILLER.
R. I. JoNES , S.W., No. 61
P.M., No. 202
LEABERT c. HAWKINSON ,
RicHARD R. KENNEDY.
M .. No. 61
P.M .. No. 698
IRVIN L. GRACIER, P.M., No. 494
DAVID H. TERRY, P.M., No. 320
CLARE w. WILSON, JR.,
EARLE A. GRAY, P.M .. No. 767
P .M .. No. 410
WILLIAM B. MoTT. P .M .. No. 458
GEORGE
C. CouRREGEs.
O. G. EDMONSTON, P.M., No. 458
P.M.,
No. 349
F. J. BoLTRES, P.M .. No. 732
HERMAN T. SILVIUS, P.M .. No. 20 JOHN M. LEE, P.M .. No. 579
A. B. COLLIER. P .M. , No. 40
R. L. BRADEN, P.M .. No. 40
R. W. KLAIBER, P.M .. No. 786
RONALD M. CATE. P.M .. No. 40
A. F. ScHANCE, P.M., No. 20
LLOYD F. WHITE, P.M., No. 3
R.
FRANCIS FRAZER, P.M .. No. 20
LESTER G. BRUNO , P.M .. No. 499
HAROLD S. PARKER, P.M., No. 20
JACK D. SHRADER, P.M., No. 20
H. C. SCHRODER, P.M., No. 3
JoHN S. VINING, P.M., No. 40
WILLIAM M. THIELBAHR,
G. C. McKINLEY. P.M .. No. 3
P.M., No. 40
FRANK P. LEMEN, P.M., No. 613
BERT
E. GEISREITER, P.M .. N o. 20
H.F. BENNING, P.M., No. 40
WILLIAM M. BoYLE, P.M., No. 40 VOLNEY V. ScoTT, P.M., No. 40
EuGENE L. RoGERS, P.M .. No. 499 R. G. MEcKPESSEL, P.M .. No. 18 2
CHAS. E. SUTFIN. P.M .. No. 40
H . H. HENDREN. P.M .. No. 613
C. EARL STEWART, P.M., No. 208
RAYMOND A. EBBAGE.
WALTER JANSEN, P.M .. No. 32
P.M., No. 499
EDWARD T. KoFORD, P.M .. No. 57 RAPORD W. LEGGETT, P.M., No. 57
L. H. D IBBLE. P.M., No. 752
D. C. DAW, P.M .. No. 57
J.M. CooPER. P.M., No. 57
M. M. HODAPP, P.M.. No. 57
GILBERT A. BENOIT, P.M .. No. 260 JoHN KELLY, P.M .. No. 145

w.

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General Purposes.

82

PROC EEDIN GS O F THE

DEG REE TEA MS TO EMP LOY DRE SS
AND MU SIC
OF THE IR NAT IVE LAN D
(20)

T o the Mos t Wor ship ful Gran d Lodge F.
& A. M. of Calif ornia :
WHE REA S, our prese nt law (Sec . 554
of C.M .C.) recog nizes
the usefu lness of degr ee team s unde r prop
er restr iction s, and
WHE REA S. the Com missi on on Maso nic
Pract ices has noted the
desirabilit y of avoid ing mono tonou s degre
e work . and
WH ERE AS. there are Calif ornia Maso ns
qualified to perfo rm
degre e work in stric t confo rmity to the ritua
l. using the Mas onic dress
and music appr opria te to their natio nal origi
ns.
NOW THE REF ORE . BE IT RES OLV ED.
that a new secti on be
adde d to the Code , numb ered and readi ng
as follo ws:
Sec. 554-1 . Notw ithst andin g the provi sions
of Sec. 554 and the
anno tatio ns there unde r. a prop erly quali fied
degre e team may empl oy
the dress and music of the coun try of their
natio nal back grou nd.
Resp ectfu lly subm itted .
GEOR GE P. CALD ERWO OD, P.M .. No.
327
Refe rred to Com mitte es on Polic y and Gene
ra l Purp oses, and on
Ritual.

·C LAR IFY TRI AL PRO CED URE WH EN
FOR EIG N
GRA ND JUR ISD ICT ION IS INV OLV ED
(21)

To the M ost Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F.
& A. M. of Calif ornia :
BE IT RES OLV ED that Secti on 731 Mas
onic Code be amen ded
to read as follo ws:
731. Use of forei gn recor d of conv iction . Whe
neve r it shall appe ar
by the recor d of conv iction from anoth er Maso
nic jurisd iction recog nized
by us that a mem ber of one of our Lodg es,
resid ent in said jurisd iction ,
has been susp ende d or expe lled for unma sonic
cond uct in such jurisd iction while a resid ent there of. it shall be the
duty of the Junio r W arden
of the Lodg e in this jurisd iction of whic h he
is a mem ber. to procu re two
certified copies of the said recor d of conv iction
, whic h shall inclu de the
charg e or comp laint and the judg ment
or orde r of expu lsion or
suspe nsion .
Ther eupo n sixty days ' notic e in writi ng
shall be given to s uch
mem ber by regis tered mail. forw arded to his
last know n place of addr ess.
notif ying said mem ber of the filing of said
recor d of conv iction and
requi ring him withi n such perio d of sixty days
to elect in writi ng, if he
so desir e. to have a trial in the lodge on the charg
e of unma sonic cond uct
based on the offen se or offen ses of whic h he
was conv icted in the forei gn
jurisd iction . whic h writt en elect ion shall be
filed with the secre tary of
the Calif ornia lodge withi n said perio d of sixty
days .
If such Mas on shall elect to have such trial in
the lodge it shall be
the duty of the Junio r War den of such lodge
to prefe r charg es based on
the offense or offen ses of whic h such Maso n
was conv icted in the forei gn

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIF ORNI A

83

cl. f
: prov ided
and
same proce d I·ngs had as in ordin ary hcases
Juris ic 10n. d the
f conv iction in ethe
forei gn jurisd iction s a 11 b e recei.ve d
that the recor o.
.
·denc e of the guilt o f the accus ed.
on the trial as pnm a (~Cle ev1 t . l . the
lodg e is filed withi n the sixty
If no elect ion to. ~vi eda rd1a ~tnhdrawn by a
writt en notic e of with~
· d
if one 1s n e an wi
day perto
' or
·
h S
t
the Mas ter at the next state d meet ing
draw al filed with t e ~ere ~ry.
. d shall a nnou nce to the lodge that
after ~xpiration ttee c~~~~cti~~ r:~~e forei
gn jurisd iction has been filed
a certified copy o. d
.
h
f has been given . there upon the Mas on
and that the requi re not~ce t erl~~d or susp
ende d (whi chev er was the
so conv icted shall sta~ . edxpe. ) f
all
the right s and privi leges of
l . the forei gn 1uns tctlon rom
pena ty Ill
.
.
11 b
noted in the minu tes and the recor d sen t m
Maso nry. Loandd it s~all en~~rm to the provi sions
of
Secti
on
734 Maso ntc
to Gran d
ge s a co
Code .
ulti le member in the forei gn
If the co~victe~ me~b~r n::sapapl; bu~ the
provi sions of Section
. risdiction this sectio n -s a
~u 2 6 of this code shall be appli cable .
·
Resp ectfu lly subm itted .
ALBE RT F . Ross . P.M .. No. 25 4
G
.
d
Refe rred to Com mitte es on Juns
pru ence, on Polic y and enera1
Purp oses. and on Griev ance s.

ol

3

C

LAR IFY TRI AL PRO CED URE WH EN FOR
EIG N
GRA ND JUR ISD ICT ION IS INV OLV ED

~2;}

F & A M of Calif ornia :
To the Mos t W orshi pfEuDl GhrandS t' ge73.
4 M a.son;c Code be amen ded
BE IT RES OLV
t at ec ion
to read as follo ws: I . . fil d If no such
elect ion shall be filed by
734. Whe re no e ect1on is e '.f
. filed and a writt en notic e of
such Maso n . as abov e p~ovided'. or ~ o;h: i:ccu
sed. withi n such perio d of
with draw al of such elect ton be file~ y f
fter the expir ation of said
sixty days , th.e n at the next st~t~ I m~~~~~e
ato the Lodg e the fact that
sixty day peno d the Ma~ter s at a~ conv iction
has been filed and that
such certified copy of a 1udgm~n
h
the Maso n so conv icted
.
d
fc
has
been
given t ereup on
the requi re no 1 e
.· h
d rivile ges o f Maso nry, an d
shall stand expe lle.d from all the
recr~tary shall trans mit to the
it shall be noted m the T1~utes. d f such
minu tes a certified copy of
Gran d Secr etary a copy o t. e. recor do
tatem ent of the giving of the
the fin al judg~ent of c~nv1ct1on . u:~ ~asson
to elect to have a trial in
sixty day notic e .and .failure ·~~ds awal of such
elect ion durin g the sixty
said Lodg e or his wntt en w1
. I
rd
. d. h·ch shall cons tituter the trans cript o f tna
reco .
clay peno . w I
b
.
d
Resp ectfu lly su m1tte .
ALBE RT F. Ross . P .M.. No. 2 5 4
· G
Refe rred to Com mitte es on Juris prud ence ,
on Polic y and enera 1
Purp oses. and on Griev ance s.

°

Cit::

85

PROCEE DINGS OF TJIE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR!'>lA

COM MITT EE TO INVE STIG ATE MASO NIC CENT ER
AT PROP OSED CALI FORN IA WOR LD'S FAIR
1967- 68-LO NG BEAC H
(23)

service to Grand Lodge and its homes from Octobe r 1941 as
Grand
Sec.retary and as Assista nt to the Grand Master . was eligible and
became
a particip ant in said plan and fund . and
.
WHER EAS . said pension and retirem ent fund provide
d that a
member could elect to conver t his pension into a reduce d one for
himself for life and, following his death. a life pension for his wife.
and
WHER EAS. Lloyd E. Wilson had elected to receive such
a
reduce d monthl y pensio n of $254 .05 in order that his wife could
continue to receive a similar monthl y pension during her life. and
WHER EAS. Lloyd E. Wilson died very sudden ly on Novem ber
2. J961. less than two months from the effective date of
his schedu led
Decem ber 31. 1961 retirem ent; and
WHER EAS. the widow of Lloyd E . W ilson needs the monthl
y
pension which was intende d for her and to which she would have
been
entitled had Brothe r Wilson lived less than two months more.
NOW . THER EFOR E. BE IT RESO LVED . that there be paid
from the funds of Grand Lodge the sum of $254 .05 per month to
Elsie
M. Wilson , the surviving widow of Lloyd E. Wilson , as the pension
intende d for her.
Respec tfully submit ted.
Jo sEPH F. GARRtO TI. P.M .. No. 630
Referre d to Comm ittees on Policy and Genera l Purposes. and
on
Financ e.

84

WH~REAS . many Califor nia Mason s feel that there
is a genuin e
n~e$ to bring before the public inform ation as to the
splend id principles
0
freem~sonry. its history and the contrib utions made

by Mason s to
the oundin g and growth of our nation and of Califor nia, and
. WHEREA~ . there is presen tly under constru ction a 331
acre
penins ula extend ing two miles into the ocean at Long Beach C
l'f
h · h ·n b h .
·
.
a 1 orma.
w 1c w1 et e site of the Califor nia World 's Fair in 1967 and
1968
~nder the approp riate theme, "The Dignit y of Man" and which a~
1 ~d.ependent survey organiz ation reports , will attract forty-t hree
miilion
v1s1tors. and
. WHER EAS. the Mason s of Seattle , Washi ngton, provide d
Mas~mc quarter s at the "Twen ty-firs t Centur y Exposi
tion" held in that
~ity and the Grand Lodge of New York has provide
d a Mason ic Build'.ng at the presen t World 's Fair in New York, which contain s outstan
ding murals , statuar y and exhibits from all parts of the Mason ic
world
and
·
f W~EREAS. an unofficial meeting with the principal executi
ves
0
the .fair to be held at Long Beach has resulte d in their endors ement
offf the idea of a Mason ic buildin g at said fair and certain advant
ageous
o ers have been sugges ted, now, therefo re,
BE IT RESO LVED . that it is the opinion of the members of
the
Most Wors~ipfu~ Grand Lodge of Free and Accept ed Mason s
of the
S~ate of Califor nia, assemb led in its 1964 communicatio
n. that a comm1tte~ should be appoin ted to thorou ghly investi
gate all matter s of
locat10?, co~t and design of a tempor ary building at the Califor
nia
World s .Fa1.r. 1967-6 8. and report their findings at the next
Annua l
Comm unicati on.
Respec tfully submit ted,
ELLSW ORTH MEYER , P.G.M.

Referred to Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purposes.

PROP OSED PENS ION- WIDO W FORM ER
GRAN D SECR ETAR Y
(24)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

..
WI:IE REAS . on Decem ber 6, 1954, Grand Lodge establi shed
a
. Mason ic Homes of Califor nia Retirem ent Income Plan" which
was
intende d to cover a~I the employ ees of the Mason ic Homes and
Grand
Lodge and, by election of the male employ ees, their wives, and
WHER EAS. Lloyd E. Wilson as an employee. with over 20 years

PROP OSED PENS ION- WIDO W FORM ER
GRAN D SECR ET ARY
.
(25)

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F . & A /\,/. of California:
WHER EAS . Grand Lodge in Decem ber 6, 1954, establi shed
a
"Maso nic Homes of Califor nia Retirem ent Income Plan" to cover
all of
the employees of the Mason ic Homes and Grand Lodge. and
WHER EAS. Lloyd E. Wilson was eligible and became a participant in said fund by reason of his long service to Grand Lodge beginn
ing
in Octobe r 19'11, and
WHER EAS. said pension and retirem ent fund provided that
a
member may by written applica tion elect to conver t his pension . provid
ed
for in the Retirem ent Plan, into a reduce d pension for himself
for life
and. following his death . a life pension for his spouse. if living
at the
time of his death, in the same or lesser amoun t. and
WHER EAS. Lloyd E. Wilson after he ceased to be Grand Secretary continu ed as a salarie d employee, namely Assista nt to the
Grand
Master , by action of Grand Lodge. and
WHER EAS. he had elected after his employment as Assista nt
to
the Grand Master was completed on Decem ber 31. 1961, to apply
for a
monthly pension of $254.0 5 in order that should his spouse survive
him

86

87

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

she would continue to receive a monthly pension in like amount during
the remainde r of her life. and
WHERE AS. Lloyd E. Wilson died very suddenly on Novemb er 2.
1961, before the effecti\'e date for his retireme nt and before the above
plan elected by him became effective. and
WHERE AS. the widow of Lloyd E. Wilson needs the monthly
pension which Brother Wilson would have been entitled to had he lived
long enough for the plan he elected. to pay his widow said monthly
pension of $251.05. to be put into effect.
NOW, THERE FORE. BE IT RESOL VED that there be paid
from the funds of Grand Lodge the sum of $251 .05 per month to Elsie M.
Wilson as a pension during the remainde r of her life.
Respectf ully submitte d,
GEORGE A. JuRGENS , P.M .. No. 191
Referred to Committ ees on Policy and General Purposes . and on
Finance.

Furth~rm ore; no Mason, holding such an office, shall continue to
bold same except at the pleasure of said Inspector.
Respectf ully submitte d.
HoWARD S. F 1sHER. P.M .. No. 620
}oH N H. K ERR. P .M .. No. 620
Referred to Committ ees on Policy and General Purposes. on Ritual
and on DeMola y.

REQUI RE INSPEC TORAL APPRO VAL FOR A MASO N
TO HOLD OFFICE IN A YOUTH ORGA NIZAT ION
BASED ON MASON IC MEMB ERSHIP
(26)
To the Most W orshipfu l Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHERE AS. the concorda nt youth organiza tions, i.e .. DeMola y,
Rainbow and Job's Daughte rs are a vital adjunct of Masonry . very
critical in our public image. and contain members who arc not necessar ily
of Masonic parentag e. and
WHERE AS, many of our brethren are not in close contact nor in
frequent Masonic commun ication with their brethren , and often are not
intimately familiar with M asonic law and custom, and
WHERE AS. on occasion , our brethren , who serve in official capacities in these youth organiza tions, have, inadverte ntly, caused embarrassment to the craft, or have presente d an unfavora ble public image.
and
WHERA S. is it desirable that organiza tions associate d in the public
mind with Masonry should be under closer supervisi on of Grand Lodge.
THERE FORE BE IT RESOL VED that Section ··-····· be added to
C.M.C. as follows:
No M ason shall hold office in any capacity in any youth organiza tion
wherein the prerequis ite is that he be a Master Mason. except that he
shall have presente d himself before the Inspecto r of the District in whose
jurisdicti on the meeting place of said youth organiza tion lies, and satisfy
said Inspector as to his proficiency in the C.M.C. and in our ancient
usages and cus toms, to the extent that his incumben cy in such position
shall bring no discredit or embarras sment to the craft.
·
·

PROVI DE FOR SPECIA L COMM ITTEE TO REVIE W
REPOR T OF COMM ISSION ON MASON IC PRACT ICES
AND SUGGE ST APPRO PRIAT E LEGISL ATION
TO IMPLE MENT RECOM MEND ATION S
(27)
.
.
To the Most Worship ful G rand Lodge F. & A M. of C al1forn1a:
WHERE AS, our Past Grand Master, Most Wors?ip ful l~a W.

Coburn was rightfull y concerne d about the decline. o~ mterest m o~r
Lodges and. therefore. appointe d a special comm1ss1on on Masonic
Practices. and
.
.
WHERE AS. this commiss ion has done an outstand mg
iob o~ research and compiling of informat ion and the preparah on of a thesis of
what is wrong with Masonry in Californ ia but. has .failed to present any
legislation to this Grand body to correct the s1tuat1on,
THERE FORE. BE IT RESOL VED that the incoming Grand
Master appoint an addition al special committe e using the ~nd1.ngs of the
special commiss ion on Masonic Pra~tices to .prepare leg1slah? n to endeavor to corrett the situation for action of this Grand Lodge m 1965.
Respect£ ully submitte d,
WILLIAM E. RIPE. P.M .. No. 736
Referred to Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes .

PROVI DE COMM ITTEE ON PUBLIC INFOR MATIO N
(28)
.
.

To the Mo st Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS it has been overwhe lmingly suggeste d by Masons
interviewed by Past Grand Master Ira Coburn's Special Commiss ion
on M asonic Practices in 1963 that the Public Image of Freemas onry was
not portraye d sufficiently.
WHERE AS. there seems to be no organize d effor t to properly .m~
form the general public on the history. ideals. and principle s which F reemasonry stands for and why.
.
.
WHERE AS, there are available many excellent treatises
on important , interestin g , and revealing facts on Masonry that ar.e proper
to be made available to the general public to enha nce our Public Ima ge.
WHERE AS, our Most Worship ful Grand Lodge has many excep~

88

PllOl.EEDINGS OP THE

tionalJy capable writers that could add to our now existing supply of
such material.
NOW. THEREF ORE BE IT RESOLV ED. that the Grand
M aster appoint a "Committ ee on Public Informatio n" to receive, evaluate. edit and distribute such articles. informatio n and papers thru the
Inspectori al Districts, each which will appoint a committee to distribute
such articles to newspape rs in their respective communiti es for publication in a regular newspape r column entitled "The Lights of Masonry"
or some other heading as may be adopted by the Grand Lodge Committee with the approval of the Grand Master.
Respectfu lly submitted .
CHRIS B. JAcoss. P.M., No. 628
CLIFFORD TERRY, f. W., No. 628
}ACK E. KELLY, JR .. M .. No. 628
CLARENCE S. GALLUP,
·
ROBERT J. DYE, S. W .. No. 628
P.M .. No. 628
Referred to Committe es on Policy and General Purposes. and on
Ritual.

PERMIT SENIOR DEACO N OR CHAPLA IN TO
DELIVE R PREAMB LE IN DEGREE WORK
(29)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS . the Preamble is presently being given from the East
by the Chaplain while the Senior Deacon conducts the Candidate . and
WHERE AS . in years past it was common practice to have the Preamble given by either the Chaplain from the East or by the Senior
Deacon as he conducted the Candidate , and
WHERE AS, the Candidate receives a more direct delivery and the
Senior Deacon has a better opportuni ty to time his proper arrival at the
South when he himself does the talking, and
WHEREA S, some Lodges have a permanen t Chaplain and the
knowledg e of this discourage s the Junior Officers from learning the
Preambles . and
WHERE AS. this resolution proposes no changes in floor work or
in wording but only the advantage s of either method of delivery which
a Lodge may prefer, now th erefore
BE IT RESOLV ED . that the Senior Deacon be permitted to give
the Preamble from the floor w hile conductin g the Candidate , or that the
Chaplain deliver it from the East. The choice of either to be at the
discretion of the Master.
Respectfu lly submitted,
jACK T. LEWIS, P.M .. No. 198
WALLACE E. WILLIAMS,
WAYNE S. LARSON, M .. No. 447
f.W .. No. 644
SwAIN E. LowE, M .. No. 198
SHERRELL E. BEADLE.
CHARLES A. BRENNEMAN,
P.M .. No. 198
M .. No. 644
DALE T . WANDS, f. W., No. 44 7

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

89

w. G. LUNDQUIST, P.M .. No. 198

VERN L. BELCHER, M ., No. 332
ROBERT J. RuoGE, M .. No. 781
EARL 0. BROWN. P.M .. No. 644
WILLIAMS. Wooo. P.M .. No. 198 IVAR THOREN, P.M .. No. 645
FRED A. BERGON. S.W .. No. 644
E. L. McLAcHLAN , f.W .. No. 198
GARFIELD E. TYLER, P.M .. No. 198
Referred to Committe e on Ritual.

SPECIAL COMMI TTEE ON JOB'S DAUGH TERS
AND RAINBO W GIRLS
(30)

To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREA S. the Committe e on DeMolay has proved to be an
effective morale builder among the young men of the Order o.f DeMolay.
and
WHEREA S. the Commissi on on Masonic Practices has learned that
nearly 100% of our California Masons favor active support for our youth
organizati ons, and
.
WHERE AS , the success of Masonry requires the approval. 1f not
the complete cooperatio n, of the distaff side of the family, and
WHERE AS, these young ladies will soon become the wives of young
men eligible to receive the degrees of Masonry. therefore be it
RESOLV ED. that a new special committee of Grand Lodge be
created. whose duty it shall be to maintain liaison with the Internatio nal
Order of Job's Daughters and the Internatio nal Order of Rainbow fo r
Girls in California , and to perform such other duties as the Grand
Master may direc~.
Respectfu lly submitted.
Jo ttN D . HASLAM. P.M .. No. 407
WILLIAM w. DEWGAW.
LORENZA H. SHAW, P.M .. No. 407
P.M .. No. 407
WARD
A. BLACKMAN, M .. No. 407
KENNETH L. McKINNEY,
AnNOLD
H. RooIECK,
P.M .. No. 407
S.W .. No. 407
JOHN R. HEAP, f. W., No. 407
HARRY D. MITCHELL.
HENRY A. LAMBERT,
P.M.. No. 407
P.M .. No. 407
LYLE H . WILLIAMS. P.M .. No. 407
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce, and on Policy and General Purposes.

CHANG ING NAME OF BAY CLAIRE VISTA LODGE
NO. 799, F.&A.M.
(31)

To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREA S. Bay Claire Vista Lodge No. 799. F . & A. M .. does
not have a meeting place in the geographi c location it is intended to
serve and it appears that neither the Masons in that area nor the other

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodges in San Diego County know the Lodge was originally intended
to serve Bay Park. Clairemont Mesa and Linda Vista areas because:
(A) It has brought to our attention that some sojourners in the
Clairemont Mesa Area are interested in s tarting a Lodge in that area.
( B) The San Diego County M asonic Officers Associations' DeMolay Committee, in 1962. assigned Bay Claire Vista to be co-host,
with East San Diego Lodge No. 561, F. & A. M. and Crossroads Lodge
No. 696, F. & A. M ., for E ast San Diego Chapter of D eMolay instead
of assigning us as host for Clairemont Chapter of DeMolay: and
WHEREAS, the Clairemont M esa area now has a population of
over 60.000; and
WHEREAS , the Bay Park and Linda Vista areas combined make
up only 7.5% of our membership; and
.
WHEREAS. Bay Claire Vista Lodge No. 799, F. & A. M .. at the
suggestion of the Charters, Policy and General Purposes Committees ,
withdrew their resolution , at the 1963 Communications, in favor of a
name that would be more acceptable to the committees; therefore be it
RESOLVED, that the name of Bay Claire Vista Lodge No. 799,
F. & A. M., be changed to Clairemont Mesa Lodge No. 799, F. & A. M.
Respectfully submitted.
JAMES A. FALLS, M .. No. 799
Referred to Committees on Policy a nd General Purposes. and on
Charters.

pedfy the da te to which the members' d ues_a~e paid, and which shall
:tate that a dimit will be issued upon receipt of notice of election in
another Lodge if such notice is received prior to the d ate to which dues
are paid. Upon receipt of notification of election, the Secretary shall
immediately issue the dirnit in the form provided for in section 449 and
shall report the fact of such issuance to the Lodge a t the next stated
meeting.
·
The da te of issuing of the dimit sha ll be the date of termination of
membership.
An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft w ho has permanently removed from the jurisdiction of California. against whom no charges are
pending . may withdraw from his Lodge at any. time by giving writ~en
notice of his intention so to do at a stated meeting. and he may receive
a dimit.
A multiple member of a Lodg e in good standing, against whom no
charges are pendin g. and w hose dues a re paid, may withdraw from any
such Lodge a t any time by giving notice of his intention so to d o at a
stated meeting, and he may receive a certificate of discontinuance of
i:pultiple membership. ( 1962 ) (Former R.D. 176)
NOTE: The proposed changes are in italics.
RESOLVED that Section 447~d be repealed.
RES O LVED that Section 447-e be repealed.
RESOLVE D that S ection 573 be amended by deleting the words:
"or" (last word of eighth line) and " less" (first word o f ninth line).
Respectfully submitted.
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.M .. No. 560

FUNCTIONAL AMENDMENTS C.M.C.
(32)
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED that Section 447 be amended to read as follows :
Methods of dimitting. A member o f a Lodge, in good standi ng,
against whom no charges are pending . and w hose dues are paid, may
withdraw therefrom at any time by giving notice in writing of his intention so to do at a s tated meeting. Upon such notice. the M aster of the
Lodge shall order the Secretary to issue a dimit forthwith in the form
provided as evidence of such withdrawal. ( 1962)
Where transfer of membership from one Lodge to another within
the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California is involved, the Secretary, upon receipt of notification of election (section 448-Form of
R equest for Dim it), shall immediately issue the dimit in the form provided for in section 449 and report the fa ct of such issuance to the Lodge
at the next stated meeting.
Where transfer of membership from one Lodge to another without
the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California is involved, the Secretary, upon the request of a member in good standing, against whom
no charges a11e pending. may issue a C ertificate of Standing which shall

91

Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCES
FORM OF APPLICATION
1963 R esolution (18)
T his R esolution considered at the 1963 Annual Communication failed to receive a 5/ 6ths vote, but did get a simple majority.
The matter is up for reconsideration at the 1964 session. See
Section 783 CMC. It requires a 31,rds vote for adoption.
T o the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
RESOLVED: All Applications for degrees in M asonry s hall include
the following question, " Do you believe in t he separation of Church and
State?"
Respectfully s ubmitted.
HAROLD L. PALMER, M .. N o. 506
RoBERT W. OsLATH, P.M ., No. 506
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

92

93

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCES
FUNCTIONAL AMENDMENTS C.M.C.

that the Master be directed to withdraw the charges and dismiss Ole
proceedings brought against the brothers.
Dated this 9th day of October, 1964.

1963 Resolution (31)
This Resolution considered at the 1963 Annual Communication failed to receive a 5/6ths 11ote. but did get a simple majority.
The matter is up for reconsideration at the 1964 session. s~
Section 783 CMC. It requires a YJrds vote for adoption.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of California:
RESOLVED that Section 137-a be repealed .
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.M .. No. 560
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General Purposes.

RESOLUTIONS WITHDRAWN
Resolutions previously circulated and numbered 6, 8. 20, 24 and 29
were withdrawn by their proponents.

EMERGENT RESOLUTIONS
Upon consent o f five-sixths vote of the members present, the Grand
Master declared the following two resolutions emergent and subject to
consideration at this communication:

RESOLUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California :
WHEREAS. charges have been flied against Brother ·············-----·----........................ and Brother ........................................ alleging the commission of Grand Theft based upon an indictment flied in the Superior
Court of Los Angeles to which each of the brothers pleaded what
amoun ts to a plea of Nolo Contendere. Each of the brothers were placed
on probation with a small fine; and it appearing that each of the accused
believed themselves actually not guilty but entered the pleas on advice
of counsel, rather than have the expense of a long trial and feeling that
each would be dealt with by the Court lightly as in fact they were: and
WHEREAS, investigation by the Lodge indicates that the accused
brothers were connected with certain acts involving the Vehicle Code
which each of the brothers considered lawful. but were nevertheless
made the basis of the indictment of the brothers together with a number
of others. Now Therefore:
BE IT RESOLVED. that West Gate Lodge No. 335, F. & A. M ..
be relieved of the obligation of trying the accused in a Masonic trial and

Respectfully submitted .
Loms S. NORDLINGER, JR .. M .. No. 335
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Grievances.

AMENDMENT TO SECTION 174-C.M.C.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
.RESOLVED that Section 174 of the C.M.C. be amended as follows:
In line eight (8) after the word Association. delete "and the mileage
from points within the State of Hawaii shall be determined from published records of Air Lines." and in lieu thereof insert the following:
Mileage compensation of members from the S tate of Hawaii shall
be allowed on the basis of the published first class round trip air rate.
of regularly scheduled major air lines, from Honolulu to San Francisco.
plus inter-island air fare to Honolulu. when necessary.
Respectfully submitted.
KEITH W . ScHLAEGEL, P.M.. No. 372
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Finance.

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

"bl to keep all Boards, Commissions and Committee Chairmen
withit possil e dvised as to funds spent. With few exceptions 1all stayed
1
current y a
approementa
budgets. In most instances where a supp
allowed
·
·
·
f
in their
became necessary it was usually because o extenuating or. ·
pnati~n ces that could not be anticipated. Detail of each item is to be precu~:da7n the Finance Committee's report. Suffice to say. out of a total
~ et of $416,455.00 as shown on pages 310-314 of the 1963 proc.eedauthorized through supplemental appropnat10ns
b
1 ..
in9SgO nly $2 '826 . 12 was
The total expenditure at the year end resulted in a budget surp us m
excess of $36,000.00.
I wish to commend our Committee Chairmen and our office staff for
their careful attention to detail.
This is my first annual report as you r Grand Treasurer. It is my hope
.
that it meets with your approval.
Permit me to close this report in memory of our close f nend and
b ther Arthur Melvin Warren, for whom we had the greatest love and
affection . and who labored so many years for our Fraternity and this
Grand Lodge.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. F. & A. M. of California:
On May 21. 1964 this Grand Lodge suffered a great loss in the
passing of our then Grand T reasurer , Past Grand Master Arthur
Melvin Warren. Suitable memorial services will be acknowledged at
the scheduled time.
Our Grand Master. Most Worshipful Elmer W. Heald , prevailed
upon me to succeed to this higher responsibility. I wish to express publicly my appreciation to him for this opportunity for further service to
this great Fraternity of ours.
Attached will be found all of the financial reports and audits of
Grand Lodge, Masonic Hornes of California and the California Masonic
Memorial Temple. It was my pleasure to sit in with members of the office
staff. and the auditors. Lybrand Ross Bros. & Montgomery. in reviewing
the detail and the work that went into these audits. These statements
are meaningful. I sincerely hope that each Lodge officer will study them
carefully. Only then will you appreciate how your dollars have been
spent. Detailed records and vouchers are on file in the office of the Grand
Secretary. Our professional Auditors have carefully reviewed all appropriations and disbursements as provided in Section 194 C.M.C.
At this point I wish to commend them for their careful attention to
detail. My immediate predecessor was. at the time of his untimel y death,
in the process of re-evaluating with the Grand Secretary the office procedures with particular reference to control and methods. I have tried to
carry on from where his work was interrupted. Part of the study was
built around recent procedural changes being anticipated by the Grand
Secretary and his staff.
There has been added to the staff Brother Ray Halloway, a man
well trained and experienced in all phases of accounting procedure.
Under his able direction a number of innovations have been made in office
procedure and record keeping. A new Burroughs book-keeping machine
has been installed.
Other innovations are being studied. A s your Grand Treasurer it
shall be my purpose to keep in close touch with these timely developments. It is entirely possible that after some experimenting it may be
desirable to make certain recommendations which could further facilitate the over all program of record keeping. auditing. and so forth. Such
recommendations would only be forthcoming a fter careful consideration
and consultation with all interested parties such as our C.P.A.'s, the
Chairman of our Finance Committee, the Grand Master. and others.
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRJA TIONS

Changes in accounting procedures, heretofore referred to, have made

- ----

Fraternally.
PAUL A. PFLUEGER

Grand Treasurer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

95

96

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

G RAND LODGE OF CALIPORN J.<\

97

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CAI,IFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS, Continued

Years Ended June 30,
1963
1964
INCOME RECEIPTS:
·Grand Lodge:
Per capita, contributions, and fees
-Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
-Payments through . Lodges for Homes
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Other Endowment Funds:
Contributions
Interest and dividends
H\mor·ial Temple:
Interest
Memorial Temple operations
Total income (exclusive of
capital gains)
CAPITAL RECEIPTS, INCLUDING CAPITAL GAINS:
Grand Lodge:
Gain on sale of securities
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Gain or (loss) on sale of
securities
Bequests and contributions
Assignments by residents
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
·Bequests and contributions
·Gain on sale of
secvrities

Total income and capital
receipts - forward
$

332,314
17,481
349,795

$

334.413
59,213
393,626

417. 9·79
50,220
132,697
600,896

416,306
48,017
153,120
617,441

486,936

474,060

Masonic Homes - Endowment and Trust F u nds:
Miscellaneous

1, 516
20,023
22. 3~9

4, 345
23, 159
27,504

4,249
lB0,935
185,184

3' 897
128,042
131,939

Memorial Temple:
Administrative and gen eral expense
Memorial Temple operations
I ntere st o n notes payable
Transferred to reserve for renewals
and replacements

1,645,150

1,644,572

63,761

7,883

386 c 781
370.417
445, 148
1,202,346

(19,878)
908,506
415, 629
1,304,257

908, 154

888,508

Masonic Homes - General F und:
Operation of Homes an d outside relief
Administrative and general expense

Total operating expenses
EXPENSES CHARGED TO RESE RVES FOR
.SPECIAL PURPOSES:
·Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Replacements to Homes
Funeral expense
. Entertainment expense
Grants to residents
Miscellaneous
T o tal expenses

764,887
1,673,041

192,946
1,081,454

Masonic Homes - Other Endowment and
Trust Funds :
Gain on sale of securities
Received from residents for
,deposit (net)

19,752

12,160

3,320
23,072

9,986
22' 146

Memorial Temple:
Grand Lodge per capita and
contributions
Bequests and individual contributions
Addition to .reserve for renewals and
replacements

297. 364
53,438

296,717
63,100

1,852
352,654

1,312
361,136

4,960.024

4. 421. 448

Total income and capital
receipts - forward

EX.PENSE DISBURSEMENTS,
Grand Lo dge:
Operati ng exp ense

Net increase in f und balances
ended

Years En ded June 30 .
1964
1 963
$4,960,024

$ 4 , 421,448

341 ,104

329, 617

1, 507,175
93,921
1 ,601,096

1. 394, 339
94,741;
l,49 9, 085

4,063

4 , 149

8,000
153,807
39 .112

9.227
135,608
47,7 52

1 , 852
203,739

1, 319
193,90 6

2,150, 0 02

2,016,75 7

15 , 375
1.535
27.473
53. 4 52
6,073
104,708

32.85 2
6,511
25,95 1
53,94 0
4 837
124 ,09 1

2.254,71 0

2,14 0,84 0

$.0: , ZQ ~, J U

$,, '!i!QdiQ Q

The foreg oing net incr ease in fund balances during t he years
June 30, 1964 an d 1963 are represented by the following:

Increase (d ecrease) in cash on deposit
i n bank s
Increase in securities owned
Increase i n buildings and equ ipment
Decrease in loans from banks
Decrease in contract payable
Increase (decrease) in mi scellaneous
assets, net
Decrease (increase) in sundry liabilities

$(1,076,461) $
2,536.170
945 ,8 22
354,000
23 7 52

659 , 696
960,323
443,418
180,000
23.751

(78 529)

560

56, 948
(43, 536 )

$2, 705, 31.i

$2, 28Q 1 6QO

I

I

Net increase in fund balances,
as above

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

98

99

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRET ARY
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California :
I have the honor to present to you my Fourth Annual Report as
Grand Secretary .
UNFINISH ED Bus1NESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Com~
munication to the present one:
l. Form of applicatio n for Degree-s, pages 80. 303 , and 304. 1963
Proceedin gs.
2. Functiona l Amendme nts to California Masonic Code. pages 88
and 279 , 1963 Proceedin gs.
3. Trial Record No. 1797. page 251. 1963 Proceedin gs.
CHARTER AMENDME NTS

Change of Meeting Place:
University Lodge No. 394 has changed its place of meeting from Los
Angeles to Torrance. Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511 has changed its meeting place from Cupertino to Sunnyvale . Covenant Lodge No. 527 has
changed its meeting place from Los Angeles to Hawthorn e. Hermosa
Lodge No. 557 has changed its place of meeting from Hermosa Beach
to M anhattan Beach. Manhatta n Lodge U. D . has changed its place of
meeting from El Segundo to Manhatta n Beach.
These changes of meeting place have been officially approved under
the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary now requests permission to properly endorse their Charters.
Consolidation of Lodges:
All requireme nts of the law respecting consolidat ion having been
complied with by Jonathan Lodge No. 545 and Veritas Lodge No. 640
they consolidat ed, effective December 3, 1963, with the approval of
the Grand Master. The Lodge will be known as Veritas-Jo nathan Lodge
No. 545, located at San Francisco .
All requireme nts of the law respecting consolidat ion having been
complied with by King Solomon's Lodge No. 260 and Seaport Lodge
No. 550 they consolidat ed. effective December 5. 1963, with the approval
of the Grand Master. The Lodge will be known as King Solomon·s
Seaport Lodge No. 260, located at San Francisco.
The Grand Secretary requests authority to properly endorse these
Charters.
LODGE UNDER DISPENSAT ION

Frank S. Land Lodge U .D. was instituted on June 27, 1964. This
Lodge did not collect any dues during the fiscal year ending June 30,
1964. In accord with precedent the Grand M aster. at our suggestion,
directed that they be not required to pay the per capita tax. It is respect ...
fullv requested that this be approved.

FRATERNA L VISIT GRAND LODGE 0
N
At the direction of Most W o h' f 1
F
EW YORK
leasure. with Mrs Siems to rs ip u Elmer W. Heald it was my
·
•
represent the G d M
P
Grand Lodge at the Annual
Co
. .
ran
aster and this
New York, opening in N ew YorkmC·~mcat1~ of the Grand Lodge of
1 0
The special significanc e of h. y . n onday, May 4, 1964.
Lodge of New York has gonet .~s t sit .'~as the fact that the Grand
World's Fair. It establishe d a " Ma 1 o~t B to support the New York
fairgrounds. The Center is a c
asomc rotherhoo d Center" on the
Square and Compass forming re~~e~t-shaped structure fronted by the
about 25,000 square feet and a.
oot arch. The building comprises
rdle~ting pool. It is the only fr~te:~~foached_ b~ a bridge crossing a
has its own building and exhibit hall. orgamzatl on at the Fair which
One of the most interesting ex penences was th d 1
.
• 64 . as M asonic Brothe h d D.
e ec aratlon of May
19 Lodge of
5Grand
New York r 0 0 d ~y Aat the Fair. On that day the
.
opene its nnual C
. .
great pu blie auditorium on th f .
ommumca
t1on in the
.
e a1rgroun d s O
d'
ommumcation meetings were held . h.
suc~ee
mg
days
of the
C
York City.
m t e
asomc Temple in New

M

In the exhibit hall
the Cente .
.
Masonry in the State ofofNew
Y k r I~ an outl'.ne ~£ the history of
other jurisdictio ns including E lord
many historical exhibits from
and Germany. In dramatic d.nglan .' cotland, Pakistan, Italy, Lebanon
isp ay is an outline f th
I d
o
e precepts taught
by M asonry. Reference is made to
been Masons from the pre-revoluti:~:y ea /rJ of our country who have
-from George Washington, the FaJ::re ~~ iown to the present day
L. Gordon Cooper who orbited the earth 22 . ur. Country, to Major
the unusual exhibits is the Ma
. fl ag wh
times
One of
some
· h m May 1963.
.
. ooper. on that history makin fli ht I
ic accompan ied Brother
C
mterestmg list of world fa g Mg . n the Brotherho od Center is an
mous
asons of eve
group o pictures of the 14 President f h Ury_ era. There is also a
Masons.f
s 0 t e mted States who were

S

of the exhibits are such ite
tionSome
of Independe
nce and th C
_ms .as reproducti ons of the Declara. . I
e onstitut1on
ongma W ashington Bible on which Geor of the U ~1'te d S tates, and the
~s first President of the United States Al ge W ~s.hmgton took the oath
mstrument s used by Wash. t
. so exh1b1ted are the surveying
. h
mg on as a young m
d
ree
me
high
statue
of
Wash· t
Th
an an an eleven foot
th
ington's life- at Valley Forge ~;d otnki.. erhe are two dioramas of Washa ng t e oath of offi
p .
n representi ng the Grand Lod e of C l'f
.
_ce as resident.
1
New York Grand Lodge it
g
~ '. ornta at this session of the
M
was my privilege t
d' .
aso~1c. leaders from all of the
free world I
o meet istmguishe d
~p~1ence. My personal congratulations t; t~ wGs tr~ly a worthwhile
in participati ng so

W~rldf.~r ~!~r.boldness

act~el;a: t~d~ee:f ~:~

100

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRA N D LODGE OF l.ALIFORNIA

A recent letter from Past Grand Master Lloyd Jones of New. Y_ ork
advised me that as of September 1, 1964, more than 600,000 ~1s1tors
from all over the world. many of whom are non-Masons. hav~ r~g1stered
in the Masonic Brotherhood Center. The Masonic World .ts _mdebted
to the Grand Lodge of New York for the splendid Masomc image on
public display at the Fair.
SIERRA LoDGE No. 788
On April 27, 1964, Sierra Lodge No. 788 lost its meeting ~lace
in a fire which destroyed most of the Lodge records an~ possessions.
The only equipment saved was the aprons which were bemg cleaned.
A new meeting place has been found, but the Lodge canno: move
into the hall until they have the necessary furnitur: and equtpm~nt.
If any Lodge has paraphernalia and equip~ent wh1c? are not bemg
used, Sierra Lodge will be delighted if you will so advise them.
MEMBERSHIP

Membership Summ ary

1960

1961

5
5
New Lodges Formed......... .
6,815
Initiated ............................... . 7,056
6,589
Passed ................................... . 6,755
6,698
Raised ................................... . 6,805
2,404
2,308
Affiliated ............................. .
367
320
Reinstated ........................... .
1,983
Withdrawn .......................... 1,878
Suspended for Non1,449
1,413
Payment of Dues ..... ..
Suspended or
35
Expelled for Cause..........
40
4,475
Died ........................................ 4,411 •
Number of Members .......... 241,819 243,346•
3,415
Dues Remitted .................... 3,381
1,527
Gain ......................................
l,~~~
700
Number of Lodges ....... ...... .
•Plural Members
1,448
(Included in total)..........
1,372
.
••4 Research Lodges no included m total
t853 from other jurisdictions

1962
4
6,426
6,132
6,330
2,440
362
2,066

1963
4
6,223
5,743
5.833
2,365t
371
2,073

1964
4
6,412
5,858
5,799
2,507t
345
2,161

1,514

1,431

1,401

32
36
23
5,052
4,777
4,633
244,242• 244,494• 244,499*
3,504
3,515
3,451
5
252
896
707••
705"*
703••
1,653

1,770

.

1,790

For the past two years we have discussed suspension, of members
for non-payment of dues and the remission of members dues. I am
pleased to say that both have decreased during the las t yea r. Although
the decreases are slight in both categories, the efforts made have resulted
in progress in the right direction. Congratulation s are due the Masters
and the Lodges.
Suspensions for Non-Payment of Dues
.
.
f
The strength of Masonry is not in its numbers. It 1s. the quality o
the applicant that counts. "ls he worthy and well qualified? Does he
come of good report?"
1
It is conceivable that the Lodge which consistently suspend~ a re_atively high percentage of its members for non-payment of dues 1s saymg
to itself. in effect, "Perhaps a poor investigation was made of that brother
in the first instance."

101

Analysis of the suspension of members for non-payment of dues
shows a decrease of 30 over last year. However, it is evident that there
is still much room for improvement. In reviewing the action taken by
the Lodges, in this respect, we find that of the I 401 total suspensions
for the 1963-64 period 142 lodges have been responsible for 943. I n
other words, approximately 20% of our Lodges have made 67 % o f the
total suspensions for non-payment of dues. Further review discloses that
one Lodge of almost I 000 members has , during the past five years.
suspended 68 of its members. This is approximately 7% of its total
membership! Still more alarming is the fact that several other smaller
Lodges have each suspended for non-payment of dues 1 I % of their
membership during the same five year period.
Frankly, many of our Lodges have been complacent with respect
to such suspensions. It is the easy thing to do, exerting no effort, to say,
"Why should I worry about the other fellow-my dues are paid-let
him worry about himself." The result is SUSPENSIO N and loss of
membership-p utting another Mason "on the shelf." Remember that
over 7200 Masons have actually been put on that shelf during the past
five years. and only 1800 have found their way back into active membership. Here is a prospective field of approximately 5400 Masons-many
of whom, if personally contacted, might return to active participation.
If all of these members could be convinced to return to active membership, it would mean an annual increased revenue to our Lodges of over
$85,000. Remember also, Brethren , that it is legal to solicit these members to return to active membership.
We wish to recommend to the Masters and incoming Officers of
the Lodges that a concerted effort be made to decrease the number of
suspensions for non-payment of dues. This can be accomplished by
appointing a full time "Delinquent Dues Committee," such to be in
keeping with the size of the Lodg~ne which is active and will function twelve months of each year working closely with the Master and
the Secretary. As an example, may I cite one of our largest Lodges
which has employed this type of program. Its record is outstanding!
This Lodge has a membership in excess of I 000, yet in the past three
years the suspensions have totaled only 12 members. Try it, Brethren ,
a full time "Delinquent Dues Committee" DOES work!
Advance Dues Remissions
A survey of the question of advance remission of dues shows that.
while there was a slight decrease during the last year, the number is
still large. There were 1534 advance dues remission cases for the 1963-64
period. We find that I 06 Lodges remitted dues in advance to 5 or more
of their members, and these 106 Lodges are responsible for advance
dues remissions for 11 84 of the total 1534 cases. Reduced to percentages these figures show that 15% of our Lodges account for 78 % of
the dues which were remitted in advance.

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Typical of the situations which have developed is one Lodge with
a membership of approximately 600 which, last 'Year, remitted dues in
advance to over 9% of its total membership. Several smaller Lodges
also remitted dues in advance for between l 0 and 13 percent of their
total membership. It appears that some Lodges have adopted the policy
of automatically remitting the dues in advance of the member who has
been a Mason 40 years or reaches the age of 75. Such a policy is contrary to our Law, and we ask that you review C.M.C. Section 577-h.
Attainment of either of these qualifications is not sufficient, because the
Law provides that dues may be remitted in advance ONLY in those
marginal cases where there may be ability to pay but where such payment would work a hardship. Further. the allowance made for "distinguished service" to the Lodge by such a member could not reasonably
be stretched to include all of the I 534 members granted advance dues
remission.
May we suggest that you analyze each advance dues remission case
carefully as to the actual eligibility for such consideration. Also, before
the seemingly illegal policy mentioned above becomes a practice of your
Lodge, study your .financial situation. Each member whose dues are
remitted must be carried by the members paying dues. Remember once
the policy of dues remission is established it is most difficult to rescind.
Excessive ·r emissions could mean a heavy .financial loss to the Lodge.
Dues remissions for the past .five years have cost our Lodge in excess
of $275,000 in loss of revenue. To be a member of a Masonic Lodge is
a great honor. To support the activities of the Lodge by the payment
of dues is not only a responsibility but it is also a privilege.

Summary
These are areas which we feel are worthy of your serious consideration and constructive action. Not only are certain of these practices
apparent violation of our regulations, but their effect on other Lodges
who have attempted to observe the intent of the Law has been negative.
In cases where suspensions for non-payment of dues are heavy remissions of dues in advance are often also heavy.
Particular notice should be taken of the fact that we have avoided
any remarks about the validity of the remission of accrued dues. This
is a matter for the discretion of the Lodges. Judgment of such ca ses, as
far as we know, is valid and justified. You will note in our discussion
of suspension of members for non-payment of dues and advance remission of dues we have not identified the particular Lodges to avoid embarrassment, but we will furnish individual Lodge records to those entitled
to the information.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

103

FEES FOR DEGREES
.Amount
$ 50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
65.00
70.00
74.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
100.00
102.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00
140.00
150.00
165.00
175.00
215.00

1960

No. Lodges
92
4
2
11
1

1961

No.Lodges
89
4
2
13
1

182

172

22
3
17
1

22
2
20
1

215

222

5
3
35
3
78
1
1
3
6

6
3
38
3
79
1
1
3
7

Total Lodges 696
Average $90.69

8
3

8
3
700
$91.11

1960

1961

1962

No. Lodges
90
1
4
2
13
l
l
169
1
22
2
21
1
1
218
1
8
3
40
3
76
1
2
3
7
2
9
1
703
$91.27

1963

No. Lodges
85
1
3
2
13
1
l
169
1
22
3
22
1
1
217
l
9
3
42
3
79
1
3
3
7
2
9
1
705
$91.90

1964

No. Lodges
85
1
4
1
13
l

1
168
l
21
2
23
1
1
221
1
9
3
42
4
78
1
2
2
8
3
9
1
707
$92.00

ANNUAL DUES
Amount

$12.00
14.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00
24.00
25.00
50.00

No. Lodges
140
1
320
62
2
151
16

No. Lodges
121
1
308
64
2
177
22

3
1

4
1

Total Lodges 696
Average $15.33

700
$15.56

1962

No. Lodges
114
1
298
66
2
181
34
1

1963

No. Lodges
98

2

283
63
2
207
41
4
5
2

703
$15.76

705
$15.98

4

1964

No. Lodges
93
l
257
61
2
226
55
5
4
2
1
707
$16.22

NEW LoDGES
The following new Lodges were formed during the year:
Great Lights Lodge U. D., located at Sunnyvale. Dispensation granted December 30, 1963. The Lodge was instituted February 6, 1964, at
~unnyvale, Most Worshipful Elmer W. Heald, Grand Master, presidmg.
The charter membership is as follows: Clark Henry Kirkham (Master). Harold Edward Sargent (Senior Warden), William Brice Ladd

l;JV\ND LODGE OF CA LIPORNIA

104

105

PROCEEDING S OP THE

(Junior Warden), Edward William Cannon , James William Gra fton .
Glenn Agee Husong, Robert Mendell Erwin, Robert Dolan Elliott,
Arthur Ernest Geske, John Arthur Blair, Leonard Charles Bisgrove,
Vernon Harvey Robinson , Maurice David Soloway, Burton Fayette
Hubbard. Herman Starrett Dorman, Edward Wesley Austermueh le. H .
Richard Wilson, Robert Sutton Tabor, Norman Elliot Havercroft, Billy
Joe Hoover, Richard Dale Robertshaw , Lavant Judson Gutheil. Joseph
Pryor Allen, Francis Elmo Carter, Clyde Cecil Oldham. Leonard Miles
Musil. Edward Allen Lee, Everett Albert Grant, Jr., Nicholas Edward
McWilliam s. Ace Bvron Arnold Hermans. Bovd Wendell Shaw, Harry
Valentine Latham, Wilbur Delmar Dettner, Wallace Lee Groves, Jr.,
Adolph Joseph Gangel. Royal Alexander Jacobs, James Limberg Grupen, Don Eldred Hirschfelt, Norman Earl Yenter. Elmer Oscar Peters,
Edward Albert Grindle, Orris Denning Gardner, Stephen Daniel Payne,
James Carroll, Virden Jack Wixom. Chandler Ward Stauffer. and Carroll Jam es Davis.
Frank S. Land Lodge U. D .. located at Los Angeles. Dispensatio n
granted June 17, 1964. The Lodge was instituted June 27, 1964, a.t ~s
Angeles, Most Worshipful Elmer W . Heald, Grand M aster, pres1dmg.
The charter membership is as follows: Clarence Ewen Glaze (Master), Paul Rainey Nichols (Senior Warden). Grover White (Junior
warden). James Henry Brough. Lee Henry Behymer. Weir Reginald
Beers, Clarence Ely Brooks, Gurley Basil Bates. John Thomas Cappell,
Roy Edward Downs. Aubrey Elliot Fraser, Edgar August Freitas,
Robert Vartan Haig. Clarence Irwin Hammet, Russel Andrew Henderson, Everette Dale Herkelrath, Cecil Melvin Hanselman, Garnold Alexander Kimball, Russell Jay Lasher, Daniel Sands Lightfoot , Stanley LeRoy Lindstedt, Charles Ray Monroe, Joseph Thomas Moxley, Frank
Edwin Mundine, Jr., Fred Ernest Nollenberge r, Lucius John Nestle.
Warner Gustaf Peterson , Robert Lee Pennington , Vance Warner Paulson, Walter Clarke Roe, Homer Eno Rathbun, Richard D. Workman,
Gerald Montie Wedell. Dent Joe Wheeler, Lawrence Wayne Jaques.
Frank Fred Grosse, Robert Warren Roberts. John Samuel Lanier. Robert James Miller, Richard Wilkes Newcom. Orey LeRoy Riley, Walter
Ellis Robertson, George Edward Rutledge. Edward Louis Schwamb.
Cadwalader Richard Williams. Bruce Purcell Jones. Edward Nicholas
Fordham. Rondo Kenneth Simmons, Audrey Lyle Smith and Cecil Byron
Huffine.
Mar Vista Lodge U. D .. located at Newport Beach. Dispensatio n
granted October 1, 1964. The Lodge was instituted on October 2. 1964,
at Newport Beach, Most Worshipful Elmer W. Heald. Grand Master.
presiding.
The charter membership is as follows : William Henry Johnson
(Master). William Vick Schmidt (Senior Warden), Kenneth Jonath~n
Egan, Jr. (Junior W arden), Arnold Conrad Arff. John Morgan Asktn,

Sr .. John Morgan Askin. Jr.. William McConnell Balentine, Jr., Joseph
Leslie Barbour. Victor Silva Bettencourt. Edward Julian Butkiewicz.
Adrian Hall Chamness, Jame!i Embree Craft, Albert Earl Dayton,
Nabor Del Villar, Russell Erwin Ford, Paul Howard Foster. Robert
Fennally Gragg. Jr.• Oran Ray Hancock. Ralph Bendor Herr, George
Lester Hicks, Olen Hicks, Gilbert Augustus Hires, Robert Raymond
Hughes. Sam Kinsfather, Leonard Edward Kitson, Walter Chris
Klontz. Lewis Edward Lowry. Jr., Paul Erwin Massey, Scott Duncan
McGrew, Lloyd Fred Meyer, Calvin Eugene Miller, Robert Arthur
Millhouse, Jr .. Ralph Drake Mills, Lawrence Raymond Moor . Sidney
Mount, Vernon Keith Nickels. Raymon Nielsen, Leander William Pitman, James Herman Price, A llen Ross R ai ne. John Franklin Schwelle ,
Richard Walter Sheets. Lawrence Edwin Sprague, Charles Henry
Strause, Charles Haskell Thomson, Herman William T oedter, Carl
Oren T unnell and Boyd Edward Weekes.
DI SPENSATION S ISSUED

To Elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Mariposa
No. 24; Santa Cruz No. 38; Crescent No. 45; Union No. 58; Ione No.
80; Woodland No. 156; Clear Lake No. 183; Northern Light No. 190;
Marin No. 191; Salinas No. 204; Stanislaus No. 206; Speranza ltaliana
No. 219; Downey No. 220; Alturas No. 248; Snow Mountain No. 271 ;
Winneduma h No. 287: San Jacinto No. 338: Charity No. 362; Las
Palmas No. 366; Huntington Beach No. 380; Coalinga No. 387; East
Belt No. 391; Mount Diablo No. 448; Mt. Oso No. 460; Argonne No.
514; Queen Beach No. 540; Veritas-Jon athan No. 545: Indian Rock No.
638; Alta Loma No. 643; Ojai No. 663; San Gorgonio No. 668; Carmel
No. 680: Trona No. 684: Crossroads No. 696: Orinda No. 704; Claude
H. Morrison No. 747; West Covina No. 758; Waikiki No. 774; Five
Points No. 779; Sierra No. 788.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Enterprise No. 70;
Arcata No. 106; Welcome No. 255; Service No. 594; Hunters Point
Naval No. 706; Riviera No. 780.
To receive and act upon the application for Degrees presented by a
rejected Candidate within less than twelve months: Palisades No. 637;
Barstow No. 682.
To open Lodge elsewhere than the regular meeting place: Catalina
Island No. 524: Neptune No. 619; Los Cerritos No. 674; T yre No. 741;
West Covina No. 758: Sierra No. 788; Moreno V alley No. 804.
Special permission for conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite Union No.
17; East Gate No. 290; Parnassus No. 388; Burbank No. 406; America
No. 475; Fellowship No. 480; Utopia No. 537: San Gabriel No. 546:
Arcadia No. 547; Glassel! Park No. 605; Palisades No. 637; La Brea

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

No. 650; Liberal Arts No. 677; Magnolia Park No. 715; West Covina
No. 758; Rio Hondo No. 800.
Miscellane ous: La Mesa No. 407; Normal Heights No. 632; Granada
Hills No. 790.

Empire No. 683; Los Alamitos No. 809; No. California Research.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Pentalpha No. 202; ~outh West
No. 283; Yorba Linda No. 469; Garvanza No. 492; Utopia No. 537;
Elmhurst No. 610.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Suisun No. 55; Henry Clay No. ?5 ;
Vacaville No. 134: San Benito No. 211; Oak Grove No. 215: Kmg
Solomon's Seaport No. 260; Maxwell No. 288; Fallbrook No. 31
Artesia No. 377: Orosi No. 383; Veritas-Jo nathan No. 545: Baldwin
Park No. 660; Dos P alos No. 681: Avenal No. 772; William B. Ogden
U.D.: Manhatta n U.D.; Great Lights U.D. ; Frank S. Land U.0 .; Mar
Vista U.D .
Charity Provision : Oceanside No. 381 ; Harbor No. 502; West
Covina No. 758.

LIFE MEMBERS IIIP

Increasing fee: Arcata No. I 06, to $450.00; Pentalpha No. 202, to
$425.00; Pasadena No. 272. to $420.00.
Fixing fee: William Rhodes Hervey No. 767, at $350.00.
Decreasin g fee: Three Pillars No. 613, to $400.00.
Rescindin g fee: Mt. Vernon No. 517,
AMENDME NTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fee: Los Angeles No. 42. to $150.00: San Jacinto No. 338,
to $65.00; Upland No. 419, to $90.00; Chino Valley No. 427, to $90.00;
Sunnyvale No . 511. to $150.00; Neptune No. 619, to $125.00: Point
Loma No. 620. to $120.00; Lamanda Park No. 627, to $115.00; George
E. Tutt No. 722 , to $100.00: Bay Claire Vista No. 799. to $100.00.
Decreasing fee: Blackmer No. 442. to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Lamanda Park No. 627, to $20.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Bay Claire Vista No. 799, to $2.00;
Rescindin g affiliation fee: Hawaiian No. 21; Joppa No. 508; Point
Loma No. 620; Castro Valley No. 713; Acalanes No. 723; Oakwood
No. 743; Simi Valley No. 806.
Increasing dues: Trinity No. 27, to $18.00; Los Angeles No. 42, to
$18.00; Crescent No. 45. to $20.00; Rose's Bar No. 89, to $15.00; Concord No. 117, to $18.00; Elk Grove No. 173, to $18.00; Arbuckle No.
182. to $18.00; Pentalpha No. 202, to $20.00; Janesville No. 232, to
$18.00; Guadalup e No. 237, to $15.00; Hesperian No. 264, to $15.00;
Pasadena No. 272, to $20.00; Oakdale No. 275, to $18.00; Mount
Shasta No. 281. to $18.00; Norwalk No. 315. to $50.00: Corona No.
324, to $20.00; Covina No. 334, to $18.00; San Jacinto N o. 338, to
$18.00; Pinole No. 353, to $18.00; Silver Trowel No. 415. to $18.00;
Upland No. 419, to $18.00: Park No. 449, to $18.00: Coachella No. 476,
to $20.00; Corcoran No. 490, to $18.00; El Segundo No. 507, to $18.00:
Canoga No. 611, to $18.00; Neptune No. 619. to $20.00: Point Loma
No. 620. to $ 18.00; Lamanda Park No. 627, to $20.00; Monte Vista No.
655, to $18.00: Citro! No. 656. to $20.00; Oildale No. 688, to $18.00:
Bixby Knolls No. 699, to $20.00; Home No. 721. to $20.00: Oasis of
Mara No. 735, to $20.00; Mother Colony No. 750, to $18.00; Bay Claire
Vista No. 799. to $18.00: The Gabilan No. 803, to $24.00; Mount Baldy
U.D .. to $18.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Pentalpha No. 202: Sunnyvale
No. 511; Covenant No. 527; Utopia No. 537; Scepter No. 808; William
B. Ogden U.D.; Manhatta n U.D.; Southern California Research.
Provision for Legal Holidays: Silver Gate No. 296; Alisa! No. 321;
Willits No. 365; Las Palmas No. 366; Artesia No. 377; Redwood

107

!;

RESOLUTI ONS

Change of Meeting Place: Covelo No. 231; Palestine No. 351: U niversity No. 394; Glendora No. 404 ; Capital City No. 499; Sunn?'vale
No. 511; Covenant No. 527; Utopia No. 537; Hermosa No. 557; Victorville No. 634 : Indian Wells Valley No. 691: Kit Carson No. 734; Tyre
No. 74 1: Oak Plains No. 789: M anhattan U.D.
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 708-Petit ion for restoration . A member of Santa Monica Lodge
No. 307. E xpelled 1931.
No. 944-Petition for restoration. A member of La Brea Lodge No.
650. Expelled October 4, 1938.
No. 1469-Pe tition for restoration. A member of Mount Olive No. 506.
Expelled October 5, 1955.
No. 1587-Pet ition for restoration. A member of Bell Lodge No. 483.
Expelled October 2, 1958.
No. 1643-Pet ition for restoration . A member of Charity Lodge No.
362. Expelled September 14. 1959.
No. 1649-Pet ition for restoration. A member of Sequoia Lodge No.
349. E xpelled September 27, J 960.
No. 1680-Pet ition for restoration. A member of Bixby Knolls Lodg e
No. 699. Expelled July 6, 1960.
No. 1744-Pet ition for restoration. A member of Solano Lodge No. 229.
E xpelled May 7, 1962.
No. 1748-Peti tion for restoration. A member of Mineral King Lodge
No. 720. Suspended O ctober I 962.
No. 1789-A member of R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616. Expelled February 7, 1964.
No. 1797-( Retrial) . A member of Marin Lodge No. 191. Expelled
January 8, 1964.

108

109

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GIU\ N D LODGE O P CAL!PORN I/\

No. 1812-A member of West Covina Lodge No. 758. Suspend ed
October 3, 1963.
No. 1813-A member of La Fayette Lodge No. 126. Expelled October
14, 1963.
No. 1814-A member of San Buenave ntura Lodge No. 214. Expelled
Novemb er 5, 1963.
No. 1815-A member of Covenan t Lodge No. 527. Expelled Novemb er
6, 1963.
N o. 1816-A member of Rim of the W orld Lodge N o. 71 I. E xpelled
Novemb er 6. 1963.
member of Vista Lodge No. 687. Acquitte d Novemb er 5,
1817-A
No.
1963.
N o. 1818- A member of Redondo Lodge No. 328. Expelled February
6, 1964.
N o. 1819-A member of Liberty Lodge N o. 299. Expelled N ovember I,
1963.
No. 1820-A member of Solano Lodge No. 229. Expelled Decembe r 2,
1963.
No. 1821-A member of a W ashingto n Lodge. Expelled F ebruary 18,
1964 .
N o. 1822- A n Entered Apprenti ce of a Lodge in Canada (Ontario} .
E xpelled April 7, 1964.
No. 1823-A n Entered Apprenti ce o f Evergree n Lodge N o. 259. Expelled April 1. 1964.
No. 1824-A member of San R<1mon Valley Lodge No. 724. Expelled
April 6, l 964.
member of a Lodge in Kentuck y. Suspend ed A pril 2, 1964.
A
825l
o.
N
No. 1826-A n Entered Apprenti ce of Russian River Lodge No. 181.
E xpelled March 3, 1964.
No. l 827-A member of Galt Lodge No. 267. Suspend ed M ay 6. 1964.
No. 1828-A member of Ojai Lodge No. 663. E xpelled June 2, 1964.
No. 1829-A member of Reading Lodge No. 254. Expelled June 3.
1964.
N o. l 830- A member of Pearl H arbor Lodge N o. 598. Acquitte d October 14, 1963.
No. 1831 - A member of Delta Lodge No. 471. Expelled M a y 5. 1964.
N o. l 832-A member of Merced Lodge No. 749. Expelled July 7,
1964.
No. 1833-A member of Reseda Lodge No. 666. Expelled July 2, 1964.
No. 1834-A member of Silver Cord Lodge No. 505, Expelled July 7,
1964.
No. 1835-A member of Phoenix Lodge No. l 78 (plural member
Golden Valley Lodge No. 796). S uspended Decembe r 4.
1963.

No. 1836- A member of Magnoli a Park Lodge No. 715. Expelled June

l. 1964.
No. 1837-A member of Washing ton Lodge No. 20. Expelled August ,
d d
6, 1964.
No. 1838-A member o f Northern Light Lodge No. 190. Suspen e
July 9, 1964.
nd June
No. 1839-A member of M ontebello Lodge N o. 451. Reprima
4. 1964.
September
No. 1840-A member of Elmhurs t Lodge No. 6 10. E xpelled
4. 1964.
No. 1841-A member of Fullerton Lodge No. 339. E xpelled June 2.
1964.
F IFTY YEAR BUTTON S
Issued September 1, 1963 through A ugust 31. 1961 (717)
Total Issued to Date 9219
ING
DATE OF RA IS
I 28 1914
•
Y
Ju
.............
..................
·
Ada ms, Elbert Valenti.ne, G olden Gate No. 30...............
1914
11• 1904
ust 12
A June
·. · ...........
Adams, Les I.ie P .. C a11 fo rma No · 1············ ········-······ ···· ················· ············
•
ug
···········--·····
··················
402
No.
Brawley
Garfield,
Adams. Lloyd
..... June 24 • 1913
Al<lrich, Philip Harold. Stand;ird o. 440. ··· ··· ·· ·· · ·······················--- · 0ctober
17· 1912
Alexander, Fred Colville, Pohona No. 689 ..................................................
• 1913
November
....
26
..................
..................
344
No.
King
Starr
Jacob,
Jesse
Alexander,
23.
1914
March
...............
.............
............
384
No.
Lodge
Centro
El
..
P
Alexander , Lodah
Alford, C laude Clarence. Caledonia No. 486 ... ..............................................Jbne 295,,
1911
No. 566........................ Septem er
All Thornton Van Nuys James A. Garfield
F b r 19 1914
en,
George Joshue, S' an Mateo No. 226...................................... e rua Y •
Alletson,
Alt, Leslie Ernest. Excelsior No. 1~6.................. ................................... .........Ju1Y 25• 1914
Ambrose. Wiley Dismukes, O ceanside No. 381.. ....................................January 3, 1907
1914
Anderson Alfred Arnold H ollywood No. 355.................. .......................... April
Anderson: Charl~s Rudoiph, Mission No. 169................. .................. ...........July J~·. l~J!
Anderson Hila Walter Inyo No. 221......................................................January
Anderson' Frank Anth~ny Western Star No. 2......................................August 20, 1910
4, J~J ~
Anderson: Ralph Justis, Se.Ima No. 277............................................................ June ~~·
May
.
..................
............
..................
61.
No.
ak
O
Live
Raymond,
Henry
Angwin,
Applegate Elmer Jay, Hollenbec k No. 3 19.................................................... May • 1914
·· .. January ~~· J§l~
Armold. p'c rry B., Glendale No. 544 .................. ... ................................
Arnold, Henry Alston, Illinoistown No. 51... .................. ......................... ....... May •
1913
Ash, Norton Ellis, Clay No. 101....................................... ........... ...............August 8,
1914
Austin Harry Rawson. West Lake No. 392................. ............................... May
Austin'. James P., Laguna Beach No. 672 ............................................. .February 9, 1914
NAME A ND LODGE

II.

fO·

.Decembeh ~ ~·:i i~
Babcock, W~yland Mariana, Jr.. Lodi No. 256 .................. ...............
.
Bachtrand Clarence Ferdinand Ev ergreen No. 259................................Marc
Bahler, &i'..vard, Phoenix No. '1 78 ................................... ..................... November i~·· J~g
Bahme, John W illiam. Sunnyside No. 577.................................... .......... September •
Bailey, Charles Walter, Vallejo No. 487......... .................. ............ ...........January 30 1914
MaYi 2O, 1914
Baker, Prank Weaver, Palos Verdes No. 389..............................................Apn
30, 1913
Baker, Raymond Carl, Hesperian No. 264................................... ..................
2
J~l14
Baker, WaWe E .. Crockett No. 139............................................. ········r:r~ ~:~

.. 16·
22'. 19:~
~=~~~~j~mesa~~ll~n::;, }fo)j~~~n~o~~·5J~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::.:: ::::::....~...~May
June ~· J~
Banker, Melvin Beach, Eden No. 113.............. ................................. ....... A..ugust
2 • 14
Bankhead, Robert Oliver, Bay View No. 401.............................. ............
~~· J~ 14
MaYi
.............
..................
···
...........
..................
764
No.
Heritage
Charles.
Baqueta,
• 12
Apn
..........
..................
..................
229
No.
Solano
William,
Alfred
,
Barnewitz
1

Barnard, Percival Walker, Tehachapi No. 31 3.. .................. ............... September 18. 19 13

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

110

NAME A!'\D LODGI!
~AME AND LODGE

DATE OP Rl'.lSlNG

13arry,
Crisp,
Fidelity
N o 120·····
Bartlett,Georqe
Clifford,
Marin
No 191.
... ........... ··· · · · · ············· Januar y 29, 1914
Bartlett, Fred D elano, Hartl~ N~....j .. g............................. · · · .................... Apnl 2, 1914
Batchelder, Austin Lowe, Ea!t Gat.e ~~--..2·9·0.'.'.'.'.'.·......................_
..:::::.'.'.'NJ~~~b~ I~, m~
Baughman, Clifford Francis,
No. 486...... .. ..
Jtin~ 16, 191A
Bay, Carl F., Calla omi No. Caledonia
2 2
· · ·- ··· ...................
'
'
..,.
Beanfield: Rufus M!C!elland,
...... ·
_::·
13,
Bear, Oliver P~rry. Fresno No. 247............. ....
...
. . ..........September 19 1913
Bcasom, John Frank, Educator No. 554............... ....
.
........... February 5: J9H
~:l;r~~e~~gLl~d~~· .Pu~ii~io ~o. 35L......... ... . . - . . ......................May 29. 1913
Bell, Elbe~t William: Chart!r R~~~:-·ii"o
August 16, 1902
B ll B h R b
H
C .
......... ·
· ·· ······· .............. January 31. 19H
Be~ O?t . o ert
enry. h1co No. 111 ..................
. ................April 15, 1914
en1amm, Eugene, Washington No. 20................... . ....................... June 6, 19H
Bennett, Lawrence Theodore, Washington No. 20... ........... .. . . ...... September 11 1913
~ennett, ~ay W oodmolt,NGuadalupe No. 237...... . ..... ...................August 25'. 1913
B=~~~~~n. c~~ Ue!~:~. vZ~ ~~-y-~..N~...
FebrMuary2121, 119H
Bernstein, L. Lee Ionic N 520
·
..... ··· ····
· ··· ................. ay • 913
•
o.
......................... ..... ... · · . ...................
January 16 1913
Bertelsen, Peder Johan, Balder No. 393.............. . . ............. ........... October 27' 191 3
Beq~ette, Aug ustus Dodge, V isalia No. 128........ ..
. ... .........October 23'. 1913
B~vms, Earle Robert. Chico No. 111....................
.
... . ...... April 22, 19H
B~gelow, Ch~ r!es Edwin. Oak Grove No. 215..
.. ............ ....... ..... April 28, 1910
B~gelow, Willia m. Winnedumah No. 287....... ...
. .. . .................. July 26, 1913
B1ggam, John Adam, C.Orinthian N o. 9...... . ............. .......
...... .......March 30. 1914
Birchfield, Norris C ., Seaside No. 504................ ....
A ·117 1912
Bitcon, James, Naval No. 87......................................... : · · ·- ................... pn 2 • 19 13
Bixler, L.B. Henry, Sun Garden No 530
··
· ..............J.....May 23 19 1
Blinn, John Ferguson, Stockton No'. 498'.'.'...'.'...'..'.'. ..... . . ..... ................ anM~~ 25' 19J
Bliss. Philip Paul. Santa Cruz No. 38 .......... .............. ...:.. :. :...... ::::::::::::::::May 18: 19H
Blodgett, Claude Devere, Burlingame No. 400...
. .
.......... February Ii, 1914
Blodgett, J. Parks. Jo hn D. Spreckels No. 657 ................ . . . ................April 6, 1912
Bobeldky, Peter K., Van Nuys No. 450...........
.. .... .. .......... November 5. 1910
Boe~ . He~ry H erman, East Gate No. 290..... ... .. . .
........ . October 3. 1913
~d1~, W~lbm AJgush~-xcels_ior No. 166................................ ..... December 3, 1913
B~;w~~k. He~~t,. Ltve o~~rnNo No. !............. ............ . .. ....................April 9, 1914
Boswell, Thomfs H .. Roseville No~l'.ii'i............. ......... .. .
. .. ............... June 25, 1909
Boughcr, Thomas Arthur, La M esa No .. 4()7............. ..................... November 3. 1913
Bowen, John Oscar, Pomona No 246.
...... . .. . .. . . ..................May 16, 1910
Jack Alexander, Redlands N;:·300:::::::::..:... .-- ...:::::
Br~gg s, Clyde Moore, Sotoyome No. 123................................ ..........December 20 1913
13ntt, Geor~e. LeRoy Jr .. Table Mountain No. 124.
.. ... ............ May 9: 1914
Brooks, Ed
W1I11am
A
191"
Brow
d HHurbert, SMadison
H l No.
N 23.............. . .
. .............. June ..,.,
..,.
B .n. H wald Shewson, Eat. eGena o. 93 ....................... . ...... ..... September 30, 1913
rown, aro
erman.
st ate No. 290.............
.. . ..... ........... March 21, 1914
Brown, Kenneth Marsh, Veritas-Jonathan No. 545 ................ ...... .... September 9 19@
Brown, Murr'it Grant, Rising Light No. 397........... . ........ ...... ... September 26, 1908
~~~:~~.Nhldre~ 1f:;:na:o.:e~te;:1St~-~--N~....i................. . .............Jan~ary 2191: 1991143
Brownell Lester G T h
N 3
· ····· ··
............................ ay • 1
Browni~~· Ernest Whit!. 3Q:rem°~nt ·N-;;.'"4•36•:::::............. ......................................................~~~~ 2~: l§l~
Brownndge, Alexander. Silver Cord No. 505....... . ......
.. ................... Ma
I, 1908
Bruce, Herbert Wheeler, Riverside No. 635....... ... . ...... ....
J y 11 1914
Brust, Marcel Sta.nford, Blackmer No. 4-42........ .
: :.-.·::::::::·.Ma~~ 9'. 1914
~~~=:~: ~tir!mvCt~°:;, ~u~e~i~ No.7 626.. ...... .... ........
.............July 31. 19H
Buck, Karl Phili • C.Orona No 321· 40 ........ ... .....
.. . ............. March I. 1910
B km
R
FP
.
.................................. ·· ............... October 24 1912
Buck awn, 'lli?Y Rreobeman, Union No. 58 .................................... ............. .December 19• 19 12
ur e,
1 am
ert, Francis K. Shattuck No. 571.. ................................April 27 '. 1912

S~ut·h·i;~d-N~:·6·is::::::·.-.

.::·.:::N·~~~:ta~

l§rn

. .... · · ·· · ·. . ....................

iso".......................................

°·

Br~wster,

111

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

::::::::::!~M~~~ f~: l§l~

DATE OP R/\lSING

Burrows. Robert Cooper, San Francisco-Victory No. 360..........................March
1914
Bush. Henry C hesley. Mosaic No. 218 ....................................................October 10, 1913
Cadwalader, Lloyd Clinton, San Carlos No. 690............ .. . .................May 26. 1914
Galster. Christopher Caleb, U niversity No. 394......... .... . ...............N ovember 27, 1905
Caldwell. George B .. Anchor No. 273...............................
... ..........April 2. 1909
Callaway, Oree Vest, Sacramento No. 40.................. . ..
..... ............... May 22, 1914
Cameron. Archibald Murdock, Washington No. 20............
.. .....September 12. 1913
Campbell, Edward Logan, Claremont No. 436 ............................. Janua ry 17, 1913
Campbell. Robert Roy , Burbank No. 406............
.... .. ....... .March Lt>. 1908
Canfield, Ira Day P arsons, Honolulu No. 409.....
. . ......September 9, 1912
C anning. James Smith, Truckee No. 200.................. .. ...... ... .. ..September 29, 191 0
Carlander. Ernest Fred. Crescenta Valley No. 652...........
.............April 17. 1913
Carlson, Earl Albert, Sequoia No. 349........................
.... October 27, 1913
Carnahan, James T .. Bakersfield No. 224............... .............. ...
.. .........April 9. 1914
Carpenter, Earl Raymond, Wilshire N o. 445........... . . ..........
......June 28, 19 12
Carr, George Horace, Mt. Jackson No. 295........... ........ ... . .........M arch 11. 1914
Carter, Thomas Jacob, Hawaiian No. 21..................... .
....March 25. 1914
Caudana, Frank Ferdina nd, Caledonia No. 486...... ... .. . .....
............July 27, 1914
Champlin, Charles Chaffee, Temple No. 14.................. ...... ................... May 2. 1906
Chapman, George Arthur, West Lake No. 392............. ....... .... ...... October 5, 1912
Chapman, Hiram Dudley, Hollywood No. 355............... ..
. ....... October 21. 1912
Chapman, Walter Winsmore, Gra vel Range No. 59.....
.... November 15, 19 13
Cbarouna t, Anselme Aristides, Nevada No. 13.................. . . .. ..........Aug ust 15. 1913
Chessall, William Amos. Abell No. 146 ...................... .... ... .. ........ .......August 16. 1913
Chism, James Thomas, Las Palmas No. 366 ................... . . .. .. ......February 19. 1914
Christensen. Henry Haugh. Eden No. 113...................
. ...........August 28, 19H
Christian, Clarence Cleveland, Pittsburg No. 429..
.. ..N ovember 21 , 1913
Churchill, Ralph Loren. Santa Paula No. 291................
........... August 31. 1907
Ciarlo, Michel, San Mateo No. 226........................... . . ............. . ........ Janu ary 29, 1914
Clapper, Bertram Walter, Palms No. 512.............. ............. .. ...........February 18. 19 14
Clark, Alfred Chesney, A. F . E. Irwin No. 645.......... ..... .. ........ . .... November 7, 19 13
Clark, Walter Noyes, Georgetown No. 25................................ .. . .............July 9, 1913
Oarkson, George Washington, Winnedumah No. 287... ..
....... March 14. 1914
Clayton, Herbert V ., Provident No. 609.........................
...
. ......... May 13. 1914
Clifford, Roy Francis. San Mateo No. 226................
. ....................April 7, 1914
Close, Allen Joseph , Fraternity No. 399.......................
......O ctober 25, 1913
Close. W illiam John Jr .. Fraternity No. 399......................
.. . . ......October 25, 1913
Coates, Benjamin A ckerly. James A. Foshay No. 64 1....... ...... .. . .......... May 21. 1914
Codonl, Leslie R., Fernda le No. 193......................... ......
.. .... .....A ug ust 5, 1913
Coker, George, Live Oak No. 61........................ ..... .
.. ........August 22, 1913
Cole. Louis Farley. San Dieguito No. 775..... ... .
................April 11 , 1913
Colton, Milton L., Fidelity No. 120.......................... ... .
....November 13, 1913
Conable, Morris E .. Monrovia No. 308.................
....... September 25. 1913
Conroy, George Edward, Crockett No. 139............... . .
...N ovember 12, 1913
Cook, Harry Louis, Nevada No. 13.........................
... November 21. 1913
Cooley, Russell Henry, Piedmont No. 521.. .................. ..... . ............. February 13, 1913
Cooper, Daniel Luther, Table Mountain No. 124... ............ ......... January 16, 1914
Cooper, Jay T .. Menlo Park No. 651.........................
. ............August 9, 1913
Cornish, George Olney. E l Sereno No. 588........ .. ............... .. ..........April 30. 1907
Cortner. Guy. Redlands No. 300............................. ...... ......
. ........ November 24, 1913
Craig, Thornton, Mount Moriah No. 44...................................... ............. March 25, 19H
Crawford, William Edward, Molino N o. 150................ ....... ............... Fcbru;:iry 17, 1911
Critchfield, Burke Ho race. St. Helena No. 93.......... .. . ........... . .. .. .......October 25, 1912
Crosby, William F orest, Burlingame No. 400....... ...................................January 27, l 9li
Crosby. William John, Lynwood No. 600............... ... . ............. ............ April 17. 1914
Cross, N athan Park, La Mesa No. 407................... .. ........... .... ....September 15. 1909
Crow, Lloyd B .. La Parfaite Union No. 17.............. . .........................Feruary 10. 1908
Cun!Uf, Irving Arthur. Long Beach No. 327 ...................... .............February 26, 1914
Cunningham, Charles Glencalm, San Jose No. 10................................ September 15, 1913

11 2

P IW<; C:EDINC.S O F T HE
NAME AND LODGE

( ; f?A N D l.OD(;E OF C!\l.I F O RN IJ\
HATE 01' R.\1511':1.

Cunningham , Edward Wilber, Elysian No. 418... ......... .... .............. December 18. 1913
Currier, Warren. El Centro No. 384.................................................... November 18. 191 3
Curts, John Gooden, Loyalton N o. 359.................... ...................................... May 16. 191 l
D ale, Edward, Unity No. 368......................................... ............................July 25. 1914
Danielson, E rnest Leonard, Rrd lands No. 300...................... ..... ..... February 9. 1914
Davis, F rank Valentine, Golden W est No. 455 ................... ................... .....June 12, 1912
Davis, Lucien Leslie, Bay View N o. 401... ................ .......... ...... . ................ April 23, 1914
Davis, Russell Carlton, Fullerton N o. 339 .................... ................ ............ January 13. 1912
Dean, H enry H .. M izpah No. 378 ......................................... ................... March 4. 1914
Decker, Fred William, Artesia No. 377.................... ........................ ........... April 9. 1914
D elk, Ben jamin Harrison, Las P almas No. 366 .................... .......................April 26. 1913
De Mott, Arthur Edward, Clarence F . Smith No. 482................... . ....... October 10. 1913
D e Pass. Theodore. Doric N o. 216........................................ .....................June 8, 19 1i
D evore, George Gideon. Georget<?wn N o. 25 ............................... ..................July 25. 1914
De Weese. O liver E llsworth, Whittier N o. 323 ................. ........... .. ...... F ebruary 12. 1914
Dickson, George Robert, Bixby Knolls No. 699. .. .. .... ...... . ............. March 2. 1914
Diebold, August Lucien. Mount O so No. 460....... ... ................. ................ April 29. 1912
Dietel. Hugo Robert, Excelsior No. 166....... .. .. .........................................June 24, 1914
Dietz, Louie V alentine. S an Jose No. 10........... .. ... ............... . . ......... April 20. 19 14
Divis. George Miller, W estern Star No. 2.................................
.. .........Janua ry 3, 1904
Dahmer. John F .. Silver Cord No. 505 ..................... . .............. .. . .......O ctober 30, 19 13
Drake. Arth ur Bryan, Redlands N o. 300.............................. ............... February 28, 1914
Dreher. F rederick Louis, King Solomon's Seaport N o. 260... .. ....... August 3, 1901
Drysdale, Alfred Louis. P residio No. 354 ......................... ................ . .........June 26. 19 13
Du ffee, Alpheus Raymond, Fairmount No. 435.........................
.. ......... July 28, 19 14
D uhig, Stanley William. Coa linga No. 387 ................ .. .. .... .. .... ........ Auqust 7. 19 13
D unham. Ralph W aldo. Santa Lucia N o. 302........ ................... ... ............. June25. 1914
Dyson. Harold, Hawaiian No. 2 1........................ ....................... ............. O ctober 15, 19 13
Eagal. John Henry . O ccidental No. 22...... ......... . .... .........
.. .. .September 29. 1913
Eck, John William, San Pasqual No. 452 ..................... ...................... February 3, 1914
Edmonds, Charles Burnett, Fillmore No. 379 ........ .. .................................... May 6, 1914
E dmondson, George L.. Mission N o. 169 ...................................... ........ .. .... Jul y 30, 1913
Eisenberg, Edward Bernard, W est G ate N o. 335.................... .......... .October 6, 1913
Elder, H orace H olloway. Pentalpha N o. 202................... . .. ................. May 26, 1914
Elliott, Harry \Villiam, West Lake No. 392................ .. .......... . . .. D cce:nber 15. 19 13
Elliott, William Clayton, Alta Vista No. 464............... ... .. .................... July 9. 1914
Elrod. Marion Clark, Rockridge No. 468................................. . .. .......... March 9. 1914
Engelke. O rrin W illis, Sotoyome N o. 123...... .. ................. ......... ....... September 27. 1913
Everett Albert Chadbourne, Landmark N o. 253 ........................... ...............M ay 30. 191'1
Ewers, Lee Biddle. Pajaro No. 110.....................................
. ................. March 20. 191 3
Face, Edward W ebster. Lemon Grove No. 736.... ... .. .... ............ ................ May 24, 19 13
Faris, Harry Graham, Alcatraz N o. 244 ................. .......................................June l 1.19H
Felsen, Louis, La Brea No. 650......................................... .... ........................... July 3, 191 2
Pennel. Claud J.• O ceanside No. 38 1........................................... .. ..............May 22, 1914
Ferguson, John A., Fidelity No. 120 .......................... ..................... .........0ctober 2't. 1913
Fero, F red E., Sliver Gate No. 296 .......................................... ....................July l I. 1914
Fischer. Torsten Rudolf, Balder N o. 393.................. ........... ... . .............. July 18, 1913
Fisher, Carl Voorhies, Elysian No. 418................................................ February 16, 1914
Fiske, Charles A .. Fullerton No. 339................................... .................September 24, 1912
Fleming, William W .. M ission No. 169......................................... ......... August 27, 1913
Fletcher, Alfred. Sierra Madre No. 408......................................................Ayril 28, 19 11
Folker, George N ewton Jr.. Mill V alley No. 356 ............................................July 20, 19 14
Pollett, Edwin Eld ridge, Fra ternity No. 399 ..........................................February 18, 19 1i
Foor, Arlie M .. Sa n Clemente No. 671.......................................... .......February 7, 191-t
Ford, George Phillip, Lexington No. 104 ..................... ................................. June 19, 19 1i
Forrester, Arthur A .. Reading N o. 254 ..................... ...............................0ctober 8, 1913
Foster, Charles Henry. Temple City, N o. 6 12............................. ............Aug ust 13, 1912

Nll ~lf A~D

L0Dl.E

113
f'llT E OF R AISl ~I.

Poster, Jonathan D oug lass. Alta V ista No. 464............. ......
.............. July 18. 19 13
Powle.r , Eugene Fagg, Gold H ill N o. 32 .............. .................... .................... April 14, 19 14
p0 w!er, Lawrence W ood, La Cumbre No. 642 ............. .............................. April JO, 1914
Pox. Chris B .. Live O ak No. 61.. ............................................... .................July 30, 1910
Pranc.k. Jacob T .. Silver Trowel No. 415................... ....................... ..December 3, 19 13
Prankenburg . George. Hollenbeck No. 3 19................... ........
........O ctober 28, 191 3
Freeman. V ernon Mar ion. Sa nta Pau la No. 291.. ...... ... ............ N ovember 21. 19 13
Prench. Thomas Fox, Mizpah No. 378... ........................... .... . .. ......... Ma rch 20, 1907
Prer!chs. Frank Martin , Amity-Se<1l Rock No. 370.. .......... ............... M arch 13, 19 14
Prost, Charles Mc Naughton. Blackmer No. 442.................. ... .............. ..... June 23, 19 !0
Purby, C harles Edwin Jr.. Estero No. 71 9 ....................................... ............June 14, 1912
Gaines. James Robert, Artesia No. 377 ......................... . . . .... .. ............ July 7. 1913
Gaither. Oscar La Rude. Upland No. 4 19.............. ...... .......... .........September 8, 19 10
Gammell. P ercy, Santa Ana No. 24 I ......................... ........... .. .. .. .....Septembe r 16, 1913
Gandio n, Louis Desire, Fairmount No. 435............... .. ................ .. ....N ovember 21. 19 13
Gantt. Byron Ray, Apollo N o. 396.............................. . ..............November 25. 1913
Garman. William Edward. McKinley N o. 347............ .... ..... . ............ April 30, 19 14
Gamer, Edward. Mount Oso N o. 460..................... .. ........................N ovember
1913
Garretson, Paul Faurot. Thousa nd Oaks No. 478......... .. ...... ......February 4. 1914
Gaskill. H erbert E varts, H enry S. O rme No. 458...... . ............. ..............June 20, 1910
Gaspar, Orman Clark. Al pha No. 43 1. ........................... .. .... ................ .. Jan uary 12, 1914
Gelbke. Bruno H enr y. Brooklyn No. 225 .. .. .
... .. .............. .
.. February 24 . 19 i4
Getchell. Firman H inds. Brooklyn No. 225.. ..... .....................
.. .....January 20. 19H
Giannini, Egisto, Speranza Italiana No. 2 19..................................... . .. January 22, 1914
Gilbert. Ralph Ellsworth, W ilmington No. 198................... ................... August 14 , 1913
Gillman. Roy A lexander. Ly nwood N o. 600....... ..................... ........... Aug ust 3, 1911
Gilmore, Ray F rank. Rio Linda N o. 786.................... .. ........................ March 3, 19 14
Ginther, Willia m A.. T uscan No. 261... .................... .............. ............October 11. 1913
Givens. Willard Earl, H onolulu Lodge No. 409 ........ .. .. ...... ................... .....April I. 1913
Glasser. Louis, Pacific No. I 36............................ .. .................... .. ......January 27, 19 14
Goldsrolth, Walter Sidney, El Dorado No. 26.............. ........... ............ April 22, 1907
Goodwin, Guy Leona rd, Hesperian No._264 ...... .................... ... .... .............. March 7, 1914
Gorton, MacArthur, .Sa n Di ego No. 3J................. ..... .......... ... . .. ..O ctober 8. 191 3
Gowans. Andrew Jr.. T emple N o. 14.................... .................... . ........... April 18, 19 14
Gower, Sewell. Selma N o. 277.......................................... ................ .......June 17. 1913
Gowett, Clarence Julius, Ione No. 80 .................. .. ..................... .............. October 11. 19 13
Grabow. Leon S tanley. Apollo No. 396...............
. ..........June 11. 19 14
Grant, Henry Victor, Friendship N o. 2i0............. .. ............. ....November 21. 19 12
Gray, Albert John. O ccidental No. 22....................................................... March 5, 1914
Cirffn, Alpheus N .. Lindsay N o. 41 6...................... ......... ..................... ...........June 25, 1914
Grttn. Clarence Artimust. Lomita No. 644 ............................. ......................June
19 14
Green. H arry M .. Bay City No. 526.................... .. . ............... ...... September 19.
3. 191 3
Grttnberg, Joseph Baer. Doric No. 2 16................................................. F ebruary 16, 191'1
Greuel, Ernest Burt, John M arshall No. 636 ........... ... .................. ............... March 27, 19 14
Griest. Raymond H adley, East G ate N o. 290..........
.. ..... N ovember 21. 1913
Grof, William Henry, Oxna rd No. 341 ............. ... ..
.. .......March 5, 1913
Gronen, Hamilton Frank, Santa C ruz N o. 38.. . ..
.. .... June 2 1. 1912
Gross. Alfred lroe, Santa C ruz No. 38............... .. ..
N ovember 29, 1913
Gn.s. Frederick W illiam, San Fernando No. 343....
.. ...... April 13, 1907
Gco..nan. Harry Nathan iel. Yount N o. 12. .
.. .....January 19. 19 14
Grv.ady, Alfred Stephen W illiam, O rien ta l No. 144.. .. ... ... ... .. .............April 21. 1914
Gunderion, Andrew J.. O ceanside No. 38 1...... .. ...... ...... . .
.. .......... A pril 21. 191 4
Gayau, John Robertson, T o rrance No. 447........ ......... ... ...
.. ............July 29. 191 2

ltak.
ti.IL
11.im
a....:n.11,

George Dalhba , Live Oak N o. 6 1... ................... ........ ........ November 24, 19 11
Howard W ashington. T emescal N o. 314............. .. ................ September 30, 1913
Merton Moody, Golden W est No. 455 ..................... ........................... May 22. 19 13
J~eph Francis, Pres.idio No. 354 ............ ...... .... .............. ...... Septeruber 25. 1913
Harold Bernard. Roseville N o. 222................... ... .................. October 23, 1913

114

P ROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME ANO LODGE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

ll5

DAT E OF RAISING

Hanisch, W alter, Roseville No. 222................................................................July 6, 19 14
Hanson, Hjalmar Theodore, Palisades No. 637..................................November 28, 19 13
Hanson, Samuel Gray, Live O ak No. 61........................................................May 3 1, 1912
Hardison, Clifford Ha ines, Fillmore No. 379 .............................................. March 26, 1913
Hardison, Leigh W inter, Fillmore No. 379.................................................... June 10, 19 13
Harkleroad, Flint T a lmage, M aricopa No. 434.. ................................ September 13, 19 13
Harris, Charles Angelo, Madison No. 23.................................................. August 19, 19 13
Harris, Meyer, W est G ate No. 335............................................................0ctobe r 23. 19 13
H arris, W illiam Henry. Guardian No. 596............................................ December 20, 1913
H arrison, Joseph C harles. Na val No. 87.......... ................................ SeptC'mber 11. 1913
H 11rshman, James E lbert, Mizpah No. 378.............................................. F ebrua ry 23. 1914
Har t, Kirby, Dela no No. 309............................... ..... ... .. ... . ...... .............. July 16. 1914
Hartm<in, Frank S ., Ca listoga No. 233 ............................................................ April 16. 1914
Hartw ell. Arthur Morse. Buena Park No. 357...... .. .. ... . ... ................... T un ~ 11. 19 14
Hawk , Chester Edward. Santa Ana No. 241... .... ...................................... April 15, 1913
H awks. Thruston. Berkeley No. 363................ . . .. ........ ... . .. ........ O ctob<?r 7. 1911
Hays, W a lter, Yount No. 12 ......................................................................M arch 18, 1913
Hazeleaf, George, San Lorenzo Valley No. 718................................. September 15. 1913
Helmick, Lloyd P., Claremont No. 436 ......................................... ........... Februa ry 25, 1914
Hemphill. O scar Leon, Po rterville No. 303...................................................June 18, 19 11
. ..................Arril 25. 19 13
Hencken. R udolph Ht>inrich, A mity-Seal Rock No. 370....
Henderson, George William, Wasco No. 583 ..............................................April 2, 1913
Henning, Arthur FredHick, Sacramento No. 40 ................. ......................... May 22. 1914
Henrickson, Henry, Durant No. 268 ................................... .... .................. April 3, 19 14
Hess. Arthur Ware, W innedumah No. 287......................................................June 27, 1913
Heyman. W illiam H enry, Mount Moriah N o. 44...................... ........ November 26, 1913
Hiett, George W .. Pomona No. 246.............................................. .................. July 11. 1914
. ...... February 12. 19 14
Hillary, Clifford Thomas, Long Beach No. 327................ . .
Hilton, Sidney, Bay V iew N o. 401...................................... .. ...... ............. April 18, 19 14
H ilzinger, Henry, Mosaic No. 2 18............................... .............................October23. 1913
Himes, Benjamin F. , San Bernardino N o. 341L..... .....................................May 7, 1908
Hi mes. Roy Cl ifton, Evergreen N o. 259................... .. .. . . .. . ..... October I'. 19 13
Hinman, C harley, Lexington No. 104.......................... ..............................O ctober 24. 1911
Hoatston, V ernon Lionel, Smyrna No. 532................................................. April JO, 1914
Hobson, Joseph H ans, Los G atos N o. 292 .................................................. April 30, 1914
Hocking, Willi<im Henry, Fremont No. 497....................... .................S eptember 18. 1913
Hodes. Samuel, Lebanon N o. 495 .................................... .. ........ . ............ August 29, 1912
Hoerchner, Emil Robert, Richmond No. 375.................................................. M ay 18, 1914
Hoirup, Frank J11 mes. P etaluma No. 180................... ....................... Februar y 19, 1914
Hollingbery, William V oss Jr., California No. !................................ Sep tember 11. 1913
Hollinger, Howa rd W endell, Santa Cruz No. 38........ ...................................June I, 1913
Hollingsworth, Karl E .. Fullerton No. 339.......................................... February 27. 1911
Hooper, Harold R. , Los Angeles No. 42.............................................. Sep tember 22, 19 13
Hooper. Roy E arl, Eden No. 113............................... ..................................M ay 20. 1914
Hord, F rank C .. S11n Bernardino No. 348.................................... ........ F ebruary 19, 1914
Houts. William H .. Anaheim N o. 207................................. ...............September 26, 191 3
Howard. John Paul, Bay V iew N o. 401...................................... _...... Septe.mbei- 11. 19 13
Howe, W alter Clark. King D11vid's No. 209..........................................D ecember 10, 1913
Howerton. Albert Estel, Hollywood No. 355................................................ June 30, 1906
Hoy, Herbert E ., Berkeley No. 363, ......................................................................Unknown
Hubbell, Kenneth T ., Anchor No. 273..................................................September 17, 1913
Hubbs, C harles Bernard, East Gate No. 290.....................................- ...... March 21. 1914
Hughes. Frank, Inglewood N o. 421..................................................................M ay 13, 1914
Hughes, Samuel Judson, Altaden.a No. 678......................................................April 7, 1914
Huisveld, P eter, Silver G ate No. 296........................................................Janua ry 23, 1914
Humphrey, Oral Wray, Santa Ana No. 241.........................................November 7, 1908
Hunt, E dwin P .. Golden West No. 455 ..........................................................May 7, 1913
Hunt, M alcolm Llo yd, Sequoia No. 349..............................................September 15, 1913
Hutchison, Edward E lmore, Fainnount No. 435........................................January 3, 1914

NAME l\ND LODGE

DAT E O F RAISING

Hutchison, W illia m W aldo, Antioch N o. 175................................................April 10, 1914
Hyman. Louis Henry, Los Angeles No. 42...................................................... June 30. 191 3
Ingalls, Earl Howard, San Jacinto No. 338....................................................July 18, 1910
Jngennan, Homer W illard, F airfax No. 556.................................................. May 21, 1914
Irvine, Andrew, Lexington No. 104........................................................Septernber 27, 1913
Jackson, Claude H enry. Foothill No. 564........................................................July 25, 1914
Jacobs, Fred Clark, Pomona No. 246...................................................... January 20, 1914
Jacobs, Frederick William, Lincoln No. 470.............................................. Ja nuary R, 1914
Jacobs. Sam uel Sidney, P acific No. 136.......................................................... June 17, 1913
James, Samuel Polk, Alh ambra N o. 322............ .............................................June 23, 1913
Jamieson, Lewis Alfred, Silver G<1te N o. 296..................................................M ay 4, 1914
Jansen, Alfred T harold, Temple No. 14 ......................................................January 31. 1914
Janssen, August Carl. G ardena No. 372 ...................................................... March 1. 1914
Jenkins. William Theodore, Indian Rock No. 638........................................ June 23, 1913
Jensen, Albert Lund, Rockridge No. 468................................................ December 13. 1913
ohnson, Adolph, Humboldt No. 79 ............................................................ 0ctober 28, 1913
ohns.:>n, Clarence Franklin, San Jose No. 10.................................................. June 5. 1913
ohnson, Ernest "W ", Las P<ilmas No. 366 .................................................... Ma y 7, 1914
ohnson, Frederick Richard, Pentalpha No. 202....................................November 25,1912
ohnson, Halbert Theodore, Paso Robles No. 286.................................. March 20, 19 12
ohnson. Is<1ac, Nav<1l No. 87............................................................... .December 27, 1913
ohnson, Robert G .. E lysian N o. 418 ............................................................May 21. 1914
t>hnson, W;ilter C rockett. Burlingame No. 400.......................... .............M<1rch 18, 19 14
ohnston, Ra ymond Henry. Nor th Sta r No. 9 1.. ......................................... M<1rch 14. 1914
ones. Bert Russell, King Solomon 's Seaport No. 260 ......................... Februa ry 27, 1911
Jones. Charles W ayne, Monte Vista No. 655................................................. June 8. 191 1
Jones, Tosrph Roy, Ho·ward No. 37........................................................ Februa ry 28, 1914
Jones. l co Don:ild, Mount<iin View No. 194 ..................................................July 22. 1913
Jo nes, Luther, Selma No. 277.................................................................... Janunry 16, 1914
Jones, \Villiam \Velton, Ma ricopa N o. 434............................................ February 10, 1914
Jorda n, BLisil R., P LJlestine N o. 35 1... ..................................................... D ccember 22, 1913
ordan, Law rcnct> V/ ilcy, Downey N o. 220 .......................................... September 2, 1913
orgcnsen, Hjalma r W aldemar, Cali fornia No. l.. .................. .............. Sept('mber 18. 19 13
uergens, John. Fresno N o. 247 ..................................................... ................ March 23, 1914

!

l
I

Kaestner, H erman Charles, Arlington No. 414 .................................... Septembe-r 27, 1913
Kahuda, Carl H enry, Yucai pa No. 726 ........................ ...... .. ................. l'cbru<iry 20. 1914
Ka tes. Ernest W illiam, Alpha No. 431............................................. ............... July 21. 1914
Kaufm<1n. Herbcn J.. Starr King No. 344...................... .. ......................... March 18. 19 14
Kegley, Hug h Pa ul. W est La ke No. 392 ........................................................ June 15, 1914
Keller, E rnest Ulrich. T orrance No. 447....................................................M arch 18, 19 13
Kellett, C harles Gordon. Am ity-Seal Rock N o. 370............................ September 26. 1913
Kemler. Andrew Ch arlt>s, Crockett N o. 139.......................................... November 19, 1913
Kemper, Charl<'s Edwin. H ollywood N o. 355 ......................................N o\'e·nh('r 28, 19 11
Kent, Darrell C., Mizp<1h No. 37/L ...................................................... February 23, 1914
Kiersch, Adolph Theodore, Hills Ferry N o. 236................................November 28. 1913
Killingsworth. Ha rry L.. Hollenbeck No. 3 19................................................ April 7, 1914
King, Edgar Culver, University No. 394 ................................................ September 22, 1913
Kingsbury. Bernard Cussick. King Solomon's Seaport N o. 260................ Ma rch 30, i914
Kletzker, Edward A lbert, Yerba Buena N o. 403............................................June 25, 1914
Klinger, Myron Herbert, Fidelity N o. 120.................................... ......... Septemher 25, 1913
Knight, Louis Francis, Benjamin Franklin No. 509..................................... Ma rch 25, 19 14
Knott, Leslie E dwin, N ava l No. 87................................................................ May 7, 1914
Koch, Frank Lee, Atascadero No. 493 ......... - ...................................................June 5, 1914
Kress, Frederick Bernard, Fairmount No. 435 ................................................ July 3, 1914
Kresse, Otto Anthony, Pittsburg No. 429....................................................April 19, 1912
Krieg, Fredrick Theodore, Eel River No. 147 ................................................ July 12, 1912
Kupser, Francis Bayott, Corinthian No. 9....................................................March 25, 1914

117

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNJ ,\
PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

116
N/\M E JI. ND LODGE.

OJI.Tl! OP RJl.ISING

Lail. Frank Clifford, Unity No. 368 ....................................... ...................... June 12, 1913
Lambert Chester Abel. Elk Grove No. 173..............................................0 ctober 11. 1913
Larsen, 'John. Balder No. 393............................................ ................................July 24, 1914
Laurance, Archibald Loud, Catalina Island No. 524 ......... .. ................. Septembcr 22, 1913
Lawson, Frank May. Laurel No. 245....................................................November 11, 1913
Laybourn. Cecil. Silver Trowel No. 415................................................ Scptembe_r 17, 1913
Layne, William Robert, Rockridge No. 468... ..... ................ .... ............... ~nl 29, 1910
Leak, Harold P ercy, Penrhyn N o. 258....... ..................... ................................ pril 9, 1914
Leaming, Harry George. Signal No. 543....................... .........................O ctober 30, 1913
Lemley, E. F., Rio Vista No. 208 ................................................................ August 19, 1913
Lester, Fred Everett, Fraternity No. 399 .......... .............................................. May 28, 1913
Levi, Reginald Frank, Fruitvale No. 336............................................. .Deccmbcr 8, 1913
Levy, Benjamin. Fresno No. 247.............................................................. ..January 2, 1914
Levy, Julius, Hollenbeck No. 319.................... .......................... .................J!uly 2~ , 19Ji
Levy, Louis L., Tuscan No. 261... ....................................... ........ .................. pr!! . 1913
Lewis, Samuel Le~. Arroyo No. 274........................................ ........ ...........0ciober~, 19)3
Light, Walter Elliott, Arcata No. 106....................................... ., _................. pnl , 191i
likins. Ralph Sylvester, Woodstock No. 491 ..................... ................... September 26, 1912
Lill, Harry Alfred, Unity No. 368 ..............................................................August 23, 1905
Lindauer, Gustave, Pacific No. 136.............................................................. ....July 29, 1913
Linnes, Wilhelm Heinrich August, University No. 394 .................... .....March 3. 1913
Loeb, Julius, Pacific N o. 136..................... ................................................... March 2R, 191i
Long, ames Wilson, Athens No. 228....................................................Novembcr l~, 1905
Longacre, Joseph Ransom, El Centro No. 384 ................................................ July 2 , 1910
Love, H arris A yers, Amity-Seal Rock No. 370... ............................. September 19, 1913
Lyman, Floyd 'North. Cahuenga No. 513....................... .. .............. .January 20, 1913
J1muary 10, 191i
Mc Adam, Francis L<'o. S unnyvale No. 511... . .. ...... .. .
Mc Cloud, Charles Thomas. Illinoistown No. 51 ... .. .........................March 25, 191i
Mc Cully, Earl Justin. H ollenbeck No. 319 ............... . ..............................June 11, 1903
Mc Curry. B<'rt Waters. Nicolaus No. 129....... ....................................... May 8, 191i
Mc Doniel. George Abbott, Wilmington No. 198 .... .. . .. ................ October 1~·1913
Mc Gaughey. Andrew George. Eucalyptus No. 243 ......................... .. ..........June • 1914
Mc Gregor, Henry S ., San Bernardino No. 348...... ............................. August 22 . 1912
Mc Guinn . Guy, Oakdale No. 275 ..................... ........................................... April 18, 1911
Mc Kinley, H oward Morga n, Cnlifornia No. 1........ .. ... ........................ April 22, 1914
M c Kinnon. Herbert Daniel. Liberty N o. 299 .......................................... Janua ry 31. 19li
Mc Millan, Edward Houston. Jr .. Vacaville No. 134.. ...... ... .......... December 5. 1913
Mc Near, Ezekail Denman, Petaluma No. 180...................... .................... May 21, 1914
Mc Neeley, William H .. Ashlar No. 306 .................... ........................... January 1, 1914
Mc Wayne. Cha rles Andrew, Hawai ian No. 21. ................... ...... ......... March 18, 191i
Mac Donald Eu gene Carlos, Mount Olive No. 506.......... ............ ....._.... May I. 1913
Mac Donald George Duncan, Durant No. 268 ...................................... September 26, 1913
Mac Donald, Leroy Fisher, St. Helena No. 93 ......................................... .March 12, 191't
Mac Kenzie. Sydney Breaton, Redwood City No. 168...................... Pebruray 28, 191-t
Mac Pherson, George. Fillmore No. 379 ......................................... .............May 10, 1904
Madden Ralph Lafayette, Parnassus No. 388 ....................................... .... .April 28, 1914
Mader. Clarence Alfred, Alisa! No. 321................................ .. .. .. ............. June 11. 1914
Maginnis. Frank Duncan, Los llanos No. 312......... .. . ........................ June 7, 1913
Maier. R11dolph Henry, Fairmount No. 435... .......................... .. ................ June 23, 1914
Main, O scar Ray. Henry Knox No. 662 ............... .............. ................... February 26, 1912
October 30, 1913
.. ............. ..... .
Manuel. John William. Norwalk No. 315..........
.. ....................... ....October 31, 1913
Maple. Gurney Dinwiddie. Whittier No. 323.
Markey, David William Jr., Benicia No. 5.... .. .................. .... ...... .. ......... M ay 14, 1914
.. ........ Aprll 28, 1913
..... . .
Marks, Jasper Glenn. Henry Knox No. 662... .. . ..
Maroney, George Eugene. Stanislaus No. 206..... ... ............ . . .............. June 4, 1913
Marshall, Joseph Charlc.>s, Galt No. 267 ............. ..... ..................................... July 7, 1914
Martinez, Louis, Sequoia No. 349.......................................................... September 1. 1913
Mason, Winfield Scott, Suisun No. 55......................................... .........December <t, 1913

NAME. AND WDG!!

DAT!! OP RAI SING

Massa• Frank J.. Gravel Range No. 59 .................................................... 0ctober 18, 1913
Matthews. William Chamberlain, Hcsperian No. 264 ..................................June 30. 1914
Matthies. Otto Theodore, Mill Valley No. 356.......................................... .-April 20, 1914
Meaney, Lewis Philip. Mission No..169................................................ November 23, 1910
Mears. Walter Edward, Mount Monah No. 44..................... ......................... Junc 24, 1914
Mellis, William J.. Abell No. 146.................................................................. May 20. 1914
Mellon, Ronald Adrian, Santa Cruz No. 38..................... ....................... 0 ctober 3, 1913
Messe, Harry C yril. Fraternity No. 399.................................................... August 21. 1913
Michell, Leland Victor, Madison No. 23 ................ .. .................................... March 31, 1914
Millard. Harry Lee. San Mateo No. 226.................... ..................................... May 20, 1914
Miller, Cyrus Alfred. Albany No. 686.................. ........... ......................... June 16, 1913
Mlnchin, Michael M .. South Gate No. 320.............................................. January 28, 1914
Mitchell, David Wilber, Humbo ldt No. 79 ........................................ Novcmber 4, 1913
Moeller. Frederick Adolph, Provident No. 609..................... ...............Dccembcr 16. 1913
Mohr, Rudolph Jr .. O ccidental N o. 22 .................................................. September 8. 1913
Mooslin, Constatine Michel, Los Ange ks No. 42 .....................................August 22, 1913
Morgan, Emlyn Joseph, Montebello No. 451... ................. ........................... June 8. 1914
Morgan, Frank Edwin. Unity No. 368 ...................................................... March 3, 1914
Morgan, George J.. Poinsettia No. 633 ......................................................January 3, 1914
Morgan, Hugh Thom as, Richmond No. 375 .......................................... ...... Junc 29, 1914
Morris, Milton, Alcatraz No. 244......................................... .............. Novcmber 13. 1913
Morrison, George Edward. N<'edles No. 326 ...............................................Ma y 4, 1914
Moss. Clarence Eugene, H enry Knox No. 662...................................December 18, 1909
Mott. Albert Gifford. Pacific Grove No. 331 ..... .... ............................. March 28, 1914
Munholland. John G uthrie. Sea.~ ide No. SOL . . .. .................. ........O ctober 5. JQ(15
Munn, Albert Sidney, Richmond No. 375 . ................ ..................... ..............June 29, 19li
Murray, James Robert Rankin, Corinthian No. 9....... ........ .. ..... .......... March 25. 1914
Myatt, Jack Horace. 1lonolulu No. 409 .........................................................June 30, 1914
Myers, Roma ine Wright. Sequoia No. 349 .................................................. April 28. 1914
Nathan. Melville Clarence. Starr King No. 344 ...... .. ................................April 29, 1914
Neill. Louis Allison. Srquo ia No. 3i9..................... ... ....... ... ........................July 27, 1912
Nelson, Bror Edwin, Palms No. 512 ......................... .... ..... .................. ...... March 5, 1914
Nelson, Myron Fernley. Li ve Oak No. 61... ... .......................... ...............January 23, 1914
Nelson, Peter Chri~ian. Amity-Seal Rock No. 37l1....... .... . ...............O ctober 31. 1913
Nelson. Walter Innes. Sincerity No. 132.........................................................July 13, 1914
Neumayer. Philip Ralph, G lendnlc No. 544 ............................. ............... -....... June 4, 1914
Neuner, Thom as William . Hollenbeck No. 319 ..............................................July 19, 1913
Newman. Earl Benjamin, Delta No. 471.. ................. ................... .... .December 18. 1913
Newman, Harold, Fidelity No. 120................................................................ May 28, 1914
Newton, Clyde Frank, Orange Grove No. 293................................. November 12, 1912
Nichols, Roy Theodore, Acorn No. 494 ................................ .............. February 27, 1914
. ............ April 9. 1913
Nielsen, Nicholas, Sunny vale No. 511............... ........... .. . .
Nodder, Arthur Thomas. Fairmount No. 435.......................................... January 30. 1914
North, Chester Loomis, Corona No .. 324 ....................... .................... November 25, 1913
Oberg, Arthur Alfred. Fairmount No. 435.................... ............................ May 19. 1914
Odell. Robert Alva, Elysian No. 4111............... ........ . . .... . ..... .......... March 5, 1914
O'Donnell, William James. Live Oak No. 61... ...... ......... .................... September 26, 1913
Olsen. Charles Henry, Wilm ington No. 198.......... ... ....... ... .. .......... January 6. 19 14
Olson, Andrew Godfrey. N avai No. 87 ................................................. February 5. 1914
1914
Oboo, Anthony B., Sanger N o. 316.............................................................. April 22,
Orcutt, William Clarence, Brooklyn No. 225............. .... . ............................ July 28, 1914
Ordelmundt, William Herbert, Van Nuys N o. 450.............................. -....... May 25, 1912
1912
Otto, Charles Ernst, Corona No. 324 ................... .. .. ..................... ............ June 27,
Owen, Richard Lewis, Palo Alto No. 346.............................................. November 28, 1913
. .. ............. July 2. 1914
Owens, George Harrold, Alturas No. 248............... ..
28, 19H
~ter, William, Apollo No. 396......................................................................Aprtl
Aprtl 29, 1914
er, Gilbert Howard. Mount Moriah No. 44..........................................

118

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORN IA

P RO CEEDINGS OF T H E
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Parker, Jo hn W a tson, Youn t No. 12.......................... . . . ...... ..... .... Janmiry 6, 1900
Parker, William Roscoe, Pentalpha No. 20 2.... ......................................November 25. 1913
Patterson, George W allis, E ast Bay No. 489........................................December 24, 1913
Patterson, Fisher W ., South West No. 283 ..........................................N o vember 6, 1913
Payne, William John, Kilauea No. 330 ............... ........................................ August 23, 1913
Pearce, Earl Elwood, Fruitvale No. 336................................................ November 22, 1913
Peck, Roy Soper, Stockton No. 498.................................. .............................. June 7, 1909
Pehrson, Ralph Ansel Gustave, Fa irmount No. 435 .............................. N ovcmber 29, 1913
Peirce, Charles Alex ander, C ahuenga No. 513..................
..
..... January 9, 1909
Pendleton, Alexis Lloyd, Fullerton N o. 339....................................................April 5, 1913
Penwarden, R aymond Stevens, S. W. Hackett N o. 574 .....................September 24, 1912
Petersen, James Frederick, Fa irmount No. 435.
.... ............... August 25, 1914
Petillon, Ralph Hitchcock, Alpha No. 431.................................................... March 25, 1913
Pettis, John Roy, University No. 394............................ . . . ....... .......... Febru ary 26, 1913
Phillips, Arthur Albert, H esperian No. 264 ................ ...... ··························-··-June 27, 1914
Pinska, Frank Harold, Charter Rock No. 410...................... . . ...... ......January 17, 19 14
Plant, George, Lorenzo No. 709........................................................ ............ March 6, 1914
Podmore, Albert E dward, Rising Light No. 397 ...... ............... .. ................April 14, 1914
Popham, Robert Lee, Lo s Gatos No. 292..............
.... ..............April 27, 1914
Porter, Irvin Scott, Yucaipa No. 726.........................
..... .............. Jan uary 17, 1914
Pratt, Chester H all, Francis Drake No. 376............
. ...........October 10, 1913
Prong, G eorge Vernon, Victorville N o. 634............ .
.....................October 9, 1913
Prost, Hubert Greiveldinger, Hillcrest No. 573............
................... January 23, 1906
Pugh, John William, Golden Rule No. 479..... ...
........................ May 9, 1913
Puh arich, Emanuel. Mill V alley No. 356................... .....
. . ............August 17, 1914
P ulcifer, Royce, G arvanza No. 492..................................................................April 4, 1914
Radcliffe, John C .. Palestine N o. 351......................................... ... ...............March 30, 1914
Rakestraw, William E arl. King Solomon's S eaport N o. 260........................M ay 18, 1914
Ralphs, John C., Jr., San Bernardino No. 348 ............................................Aug ust 29, 19 12
Rampe, William Ernest, Mount Moriah No. 44............. .
............April 1. 1914
Rank, Howard Walter, Golden Rule No. 479............................... ..........October 6, 19 13
Ransom, Jack Kennedy, Stanislaus N o. 206.............
.... D ecember 23, 19 13
Ratliff, Thomas Asbury, San Dieguito No. 775......................................February 26 , 1912
Ratsch, Paul Edmund, Burbank No. 406................................................November 26, 1912
Rawicz, Louis M., San Bernardino No . 348.........
....... Feb ruary 14, 1907
Reld, R obert Ha cker, Fairmount No. 435............. .......................................July 3, 1914
Reinert, Rudolph H erman, Silver Gate No. 296.. ...............
............March 30, 1914
Reis, Harry William, Lebanon N o. 495.....................
. .... September 26, 1911
R enaker, u slie Morton, Buena Park No. 357.....................
.. ......... January 29, 1914
Re ynolds, Charles Ellsworth, Bay View No. 401.. ......................................... July 25, 1914
Rice, Walter Christopher, Table Mountain N o. 124 ......... .. ........................ June 15, 1914
Richard, John Frederick, Long Beach N o. 327........................................November 20, 1913
Richards, Ralph Edward, San Jose No. 10 .............. ...................... N ovember 25, 1913
Richardson, Alman Tappan, Pomona N o. 246..........................................January 20, 19 14
Richardson, Lewis, Santa Rosa No. 57........................... .. .
.......November 20, 1913
Rilea , Howard E lliott, Alcatraz No. 244................................. .. .......... November 13, 1913
Rintoul. Henry Ward Beecher, Bakersfield No. 224.....
.........N ovember 21. 1913
Risley, Samuel Wallard, Oriental N o. 144 ...............................................January 27, 1914
Robarts, Harry Philip, Parnassus No. 388........................... . ............ September 16, 1913
Roberts, H arty Mel. T orrance No. 447................... ..
.... ..... . ............. March 9, 1908
Robinson, Harold Hugh, Sr., Sacramento No. 40.......................................... May 22, 1914
Rodgers, Ralph Thaxton, West Lake N o. 392............. .............. . .. ...........April 20, 1914
Roessel, H enry, Elysian_No. 41 8.......................................... ....................... March 28 , 1914
Rolph. Samuel Smith, Kilauea N o. 330............................................. ............ M a rch 5. 1913
Romani, Albert Charles, Crockett No. 139 ................
............... . ............ April 29, 19 14
Rooney, Harry Burnham, Eureka No. 16 ................ ... ............................... 0ctober 27, 1913
Rosenberg, Melvin, Doric No. 216 .............................. ................................... May 25, 1914
Rowe, Gordon Gillard, Crockett No. 139 ......................... ....... ..... ...............June 24. 1914
Rowold, Edward Frederick, H onolulu No. 409....................... .............. .........June 16, 1914

NAME AND LODGE

119
DATE OP RAISING

Ruediger, Julius, Jr., Live Oak No .. 61..........................................................March 31, 1911
Ryder, Royal Simmeral. Fairmount No. 435 ...............................................August 21, 1914
Sadler, Thomas Franklin, McCloud No. 430........................................November 25. 1913
Sagar, William Stephen, E lysian No. 418 .......................................... November 13. 1913
Sanders. Edwin Nunes. Solano No. 229 ....................................................0ctober 27, 1913
Sandoval, Horace E arl, Sequoia N o. 349 .......................................................... June 30 . 1914
Sargent. Adelbert S., Ancho r No. 273 ............................................................ March 13, 1913
Sarll, Frank Elmer, Madera No. 280........................................................F ebruary 21, 1914
Sawyer, Perry Ellsworth, \Vest Lake No. 392..........................................Januar y 19, 1914
Schafer, Charles, F ullerton No. 339.............................................................. March 5, 1912
Schaffnit, Amos C alvin, Palestine No. 351.. .................................................... M ay 25, 1914
Schenk, Charles \ Vashiogton, Los Altos N o. 71 2........ ....................... .........June 25, 1914
Schmidt, Albert Christopher, San Francisco-Victory No. 360.............. February 16, 1914
Schneider, Geo rg e Nathan, C orinthian No. 9 ........................................ November 25, 1913
Schofield, Richard Ostler, La Fayette No. 126 .......................................... 0ctober 10, 1913
Schrader, Frank William, Marin No. 191... ................... ..................................June 23, 19 14
Schrader, Otto Rudolph, Parnassus No. 388....................................................June 30, 19 11
Schroeder, William Henry, Golden State No. 358....................................0 ctober 30 . 1913
Schulz, William John, Excelsior N o. 166..............................................September 18, 1913
Schuster, Karl Frederick, Presid io N o. 354....................................................April 24, 1913
Scott, Lewis Cleveland, Carmel N o. 680 ................................................. ....................... 1910
Scott, W illiam Horton, Fairmount No. 435 .................................................. March 17, 1914
Seal, W ilmer G awthrop, Excelsior No. 166 ......................................................July 22, 1914
Searles, Eldredge N ixon, Hollenbeck No. 319..........................................0ctober 28 , 1913
Seccombe, William C arpenter, San Bernard ino No. 348................................ June 18 . 1914
Segale, Joseph Marion, West Ga te No. 335 ....... ............................. ... .... N ovember 21, 1912
Sence, Ray Robinson, Burbank N o. 406...................................................... 0 ctober 3, 1911
Shamp, Lewis T empleton, Argonaut N o. 461.................... ................ November 21. 1913
Sharpe, Edwin Willis, A mity-Seal Rock N o. 370................... ..................... March 27, 1914
Sheffer, Theron Louis, Willow Glen N o. 676............................................... Ma y 30. 1914
Shepherd, Ernest Delos, Fraternity No. 399..........................................September 13, 1913
Sher man, Arthu r Frank, P alo Alto N o. 346 .................................................... April 23. 1913
Shultz, Carl August, W est Lake No. 392 ................................................ N overnber 3, 1913
Siller. Edward Lenhart, Union No. 58.............................................................. June 10, 1914
Silverman, Sol, Fidelity N o. 120.............................................................. N ovember 20, 1913
Simmons, Ralph Waldo, Fratern ity No. 399....................................................M ay 25, 1910
Skidmore, Stephen Edward, Azusa N o. 305 ............................ ................... M arch 17. 1914
Slavin, W illiam Charles, Al tad ena No. 678 .................................................... Ap ril 14, 1914
Small, E rnest A., Russian River N o. 18 1.. .................................. .......... .December 1. 1913
Smith, Alexander, Mount Moriah No. 44 .................................................. 0 ctober 22, 1913
Smith, Charles Henry, Santa Ana N o. 24 1.. ................................................ August 29, 1913
Smith, Claibo rne Ellis, La Mesa No. 407 .... ......... .......................... F ebruar y 20, 191 3
Smith, Edgar Christian, Las P almas No. 366....................................................June 4, 1914
Smith, Ha rold Morell, Kaweah, N o. 665..........................................................May 5. 1914
Smith, Irving W ., Harbor No. 502......................................................................June 7, 1914
Smith, James Stanley, Live O ak N o. 61.. ................................................ February 20, 1914
Smith, Morgan Noyse, Unity No. 368............................................................April 24, 1911
Smith, Ole Krarup, Occiden tal No. 22............................................................April 6, 1914
Smith, Pi us Jacob. E lysian No. 418 ............................................................ 0ctober 9, 1913
Smith, Ralph Thaddeus, Pomona No. 246.............................................. N ovembe r 12, 19 13
Smith, William Vernon, Tehama No. 3................................................ N ovemher 10. 1913
Smullen, John, Rockridgc N o. 468 .......................................................... ....0 ctober 25, 19 13
Snow, My rl M errit, La Fa yette No. 126........................................................ Jurn.• 20, 1914
Snyder, Paul Victor, Neptune N o. 619 .................................................... February 10, 19 14
Soclolski, W alter, Alhambra No. 322........................................................... .August 19, 1913
Solomon, Ira Selig, Fidelity No . 120........................................................ February 19, 1914
Sones, Charles E lias. El C t>ntro N o. 384. ......... ......................................... June 22, 191 4
~theimer, Urban Alexander, Fraternity N o. 399 ................................ December 27, 1913
paulding, Otis Lee, Fairmount No. 435 ........................................................April 6, 1914

120

GRAND LODGE 0 1' CA LI FOR NIA

PROCEEDI NC S 01' T JIE
DATE OP RAISING

NAME AND LODGE

~~~~.r1:ta~i:; ~r; HNrbor No. 502 ............ ................................................July 12. 1913

Ed

L

S

n

o. 169........................................................................July 27 1910

521... ...................................................April 18: l91i
si::f.nho~~~. nu:~1~·t:~~dN~t· 5~o.
............................................................ October 4, 1913

L I
St I L
s ee,e, oe~teG e and, Verba Buena No. 403.......................................... February 19 191i
uil1r:ft· Howard No. 37.............................................................. May 13: 191i
siee e, r
S em:ert, e~ry arten, Lorenzo No. 709..............................................February 23 191i
Step ew)' ~phlF ~ruitv~le No. 336.............................................. November 10: 1913
a ~raokeEd n endsh1p No. 210..................................................February 26 191i
Stern,
Eward, Fremont No. 497.............................................. January 22: 191i
Stevenson. Rob
ert !mer, Brooklyn No. 225 .................................................. May 26 1914
tevensonC,
S
s;:::;~: ;~~c!l~~~;~~crning Star No. 68........................................March 3 1: 1914
Stone, John Frithof, Traver No:·294......................................... ........................ May 7• 1914
.................................. ................ .......... Octobe.r 25, 1913
Stowe, Oscar Park, A ollo No
· 396 ............................................................ ....Apnl 20, 1914
P
Ch I
s
Jam e~ Crockett No. 139..................... .......... .............. February 18, 1914
S trouselvU ar
Sutter, 1th eAly, alo .Alto No. 346.................................................. February 23, 1914
Swanson, J°ii~nH got, ffeu1sun No. 55 ........................................... .............. March 14, 1914
c No. 136.................................................. September 13, 1913
s:~~~~n. W~llaceeBnr. Yy· ouaoctiflN
o. 12....................................................................July 16, 1914
•

H

1

L

+ay~o\J'.hilip ~teS San Francisco-Victory No. 360.......................... November 29, 1910

T~~~pso~~tJ~sepb• d~Js~~S~t~~~~: N~:-·i.2i_'::.-_-_-_-_-_-_-_'_'_'_'_'_'_._'_'_'_'...·.'... .'.'.'_'_'_'_'_'_'?,~1Ztae; ~j· ii:~
6

T?omson, James Glenn McGregor, La Fayette No. 126............ . ...... Nov~mber 14' 1913
Tietz, Edward Ferdinand, Woodstock No. 491................... ....................... April 14, 1913
lethewA. HorL~e G Madera No. 280........................... ....... . ........... February 4'. 1911

0

T~~~:~: D:~~~· Cl~vuede, ¥o~~~! ·N~:·;i1f.·:.-.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'...'..:.'.':.'..'.'.'._·_-_-__'' .' .' ..-.- -~~-~~~~~h l~: l~~
1

f urner..IrviLg lsidore,Jic;illenbeck No. 319......................................................June 30, 191i
T urrentmi::d a_wrRocd I eh!, Consuelo No. 325 ................................................ May 30, 191i
o ~ . ~urprise Valle& No. 235 ..................................0 ctober 8, 1913
T yr yas"dn w1w
Hater, urhngame No. 4 ............................................ February 17. 19!4
T y er,
yrre11 , c 1e awes, 0 range Grove N o. 293........................................ January 27, 1914

Ar 6'. i

C!BrenceHM .. AWha No. 431.. ............................................................. ... May 26• 19 1i
Van Sehn ukrgC, arry amuel, East Gate No. 290....................................January 30 1914
an c aic . bar1es Warren, Palo Alto No. 346..............................September 18: 1913
Van :'!ear, Harvey Samuel, Woodbridge No. 131.. ..................... ..........October II. 1913
V ~ rd1er, Paul, ~ Parfaite Union No. 17.................................................... 0 ctobcr 31. 1913
~~n~ent,cfranc1T~sman, ~ther Burbank No. 752 ...................... ....... .December 26, 1911
tioch No. 175..................................................January 16, 191i
omas.
v!Vlt:· eorge
Voe tf:Jo~ t~is,SFruitvale No. 336.................................................... 0ctober 18, 1913
v~g:1.' W~Jter JoUhl~, Bruaiswulne NNo. 55.................................................................. May 30, 1914
May 6 !91i
y o. 402...................
. •
g
Von Kleinsmid, Rufus Bernhard, James A. Garflei;fN-~. .566::::::::::::::::::::::::April 10: 1902

0

~a nc

~=~ter~2:E~Co~~lnNd. Sacramento No. 40...................................... 0ctober 28, 1913
W all, Myron Sharma:. In~i:;t·;~·k·N·;.. 638.........................................February 20, 1914
............................... .................July 16, 1912
·
N
W II R b t B N
ato5a 0 • 6i ..........................................................November 29, 1913
Wal · °
msoM olano No. 229 ..................................................November 29, 1913
wa/ers. ~rt
w:r~;~.. AI~~eT~~-Por~e~ll~arfo~·£>8 ···oo·•·••••oo•OOooOoooooooooooo oooooo•ooooooooo0•• 0000 "'April 17, 1913
W aterman, Herbert A., Woodland N~"'i·····....................................................June 23, 191i
1913
Homer, Palo Alto No ·3/6.........................................November 19,
W atson, Ha
14 19
W atts, l saacfohn. Santa Lucia No. Jo2 6................................................0ctobe_r 25 • 1913
Webb, Samuel Flernin , Holtville No 4i5.....................................................Apnl • 1i
................................................October 7, 1913
·
W ·1 W'lh I H g
November 10, 1913
w::r~rbavild A~dre~S~~~NN
June 6, 1914
..................................
Weismeyer, Clifford TrembleY• We;t·G~t~..N~"J'"""··• 35 ..................................March 18. 1900

Fr VJ:

'f

" " " • • • •••000000 0000,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.. ......

NA M E AND LODGE

12 1
DAT E OP RAISI NG

We~s. William B .. Los Angeles No. 42.................................................. October 13, 1913

We!tlllan. Carl George, Traver No. 294..................................................November 19. 1913
Welty. Percy Allen, Paso Robles No. 286................................................. August 12. 1914
Werry. Alfred Ernest, Palo Alto No. 346......................................... ....... Februa ry 17, 1914
Wesst:Jn. Walter Perrin, West Lake N o. 392......................... .................... March 25, 1912
West, Emory C .. Corona No. 324 .................................................................... April 22, 1914
Weston, Hall, Petaluma No. 180........................................................................June 24, 1914
Weston, Robert W illiam. Sotoyome No. 123 ............................................0 ctobcr 6, 1913
Wheat. George Jenner, Huntington Beach No. 380..................................August 5. 1913
Whitaker. Andrew Jackson, Ty rian No. 439............................................ January 9, 1914
White, Howard Pool, Naval No. 87.............................................................. March 5, 1914
White, James W illiam, Southern California No. 278 ........... ................F('bruary 8, 191 1
White, Julius H .. Glendale No. 544 ....................................................................June 22. 1912
Whiteside, George Nelson. Mountain View No. 194 ............................Decembcr 3, 1912
Whittemore, Fred Charles. Altadena No. 678 ................................................ April 11. 1914
Wickstrom. Edward Joseph, San Miguel No. 285.................................. December 13, 1913
Wlhr. George Maxmillian, San Mateo No. 226...................................... February 12, 1914
Williams. Adolph A .. Fairmount No. 435 ............................... ................ February 25, 1914
WJ!liams. Frederick N., Apollo No. 396.......................................................... April 7, 19 14
Williams, Jesse Henderson, Westchester No. 703............................................ Junc 5, 1914
Williams, t eroy Stanley. D urant No. 268..._......................- ...........................June 17, 1914
Williams, W iley B.. Alturas No. 248.............................................................. April 4, 191 4
Williamson, Henry Black. Amity-Seal Rock No. 370......... ......................August 23, 1913
Wilson. Arthur B.. Yount No. 12 ................................................ ......................June 2, 1914
Wilson, James William, Fresno No. 247................................................ November 1. 1912
Wilson, Ray Leon, Monrovia No. 308 .............................................................. June 9, 19 13
Wilson. Wm . Leopold, Mosaic No. 218......................................................January 22, 1914
Wilson, Wynn Edwin, Indian Rock No. 638................................................March 28, 1912
Winegura, Charles. West Lake No. 392..........................................................June 22. 1914
Wright, Clayton Melvin, Whittier No. 323 ......................... ....................October 24, 1913
W yatt, Fred Shelford, Ye-rba Buena No. 403..................................................May 6, 1914
Yakel, Jacob Charles, Chowchilla No. 485....................................................March 10, 1914
York, Willis Brnst~d. Bay V iew No. 401..........................................................Ju!y 25, 1914
Zeppernick, August Max, Berkeley No. 363 .. .................... ....................... March 19, 1914
Ziegler, Emil Paul. Fellowship No. 480.................................................... Febru ary 27. 1913
Zoberbier, Alfred Medley. Occidental No. 22 .........- .......................................May 14, 19 14
Zulch, William G .. San Bernardino No. 348.............................. .................... April 11, 19 13

122

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER

IN APP RECIATION

. The Gr~nd. Secretary's Staff considers it a privilege to have a ar
m the functtonrng of this great Fra ternity. We thank the Officers ~n~
Brethren ~f the Lodges for the cooperative manner in which they ha
":or.ked with us during this past year. Vie especially express our appr:~
ciat1on to ~he G rand. Mast~r for ~is every kind act. his unfailing courtesy and his warm friendship. A gifted combination genuinely felt by all.
I would be ungrateful if I did not express my personal apprecia t'
. ion
Lodge Offi
for the cooperation of a loyal Sta ff in the Grand
ce m our
<
F
ff
e ort to serve reemasonry. In the four years I have been privileged
to s erve as Gra nd Secret ary. our association has truly become a tea
effort. F?r the warm friendships of fellow employees to treasure,
the blessmgs of health to enjoy. I am eternally thankful .

f:;

Grand S ecretary
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

123

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:

The duties of the G ra nd Lecturer as set forth in Section 156 of the
Ordinances require him "to supervise and direct the A ssista nt G ran d
Lecturers in the performance of their duties. and to require conformity
with the adopted ritua l and work." The Assistant Grand Lecturer is
"to examine and instruct the Inspectors within his division in the performance of their duties. and to exercise general supervision over their
work in the Lodges under their care .. .. "
It may be readily apparent from th is excerpt that the Grand Lecturer and the Assistant Grand Lecturers have, throu gh the Inspectors
of the Districts, responsibility not only for the ritual work of the Grand
Lodge. but also for the supervision of. and leadership in , each District.
This, a devoted and dedicated Inspector s hould give.
The year just closed shows, in the repor ts of the Inspectors, continued progress toward the goal of meaningful service by our Lodges;
service not only to the membership of ea ch Lodge itself. b :1t service
also to our great charity, the Masonic H omes, to our Memorial Temple
and to the com munity in which the Lodge exists.
In the area of the r itual, I can report a steady increase in the uniformity
of the work and the proficiency of the Inspectors in their ab ility to both
act and teach. There ap pears a minimum of the complaint "that's not
the way it was last year." Our s ystem of constant instruction continues
to show its bc1se of wisdom. and other jurisdictions query our methods
and emulate them.
Divisional coJ1ferenccs o f Inspec tors were held in accordance with
established practice. T he wor k of all degrees. including Lectures. by
Master and Candidate. was exemplified at eac h of the five conferences .
In Apr il. 1964, Worshipful Raymond G. Taylor, who had served
for fourteen yea rs as Assistant Gra nd Lecturer. Division IV, resig ned
that office and the G rand Master appointed Worshipful Wallace H .
Fiske. a Pas t Master of East Belt Lodge N o. 391, Tuolumne, and
Inspector of District No. 404, as his successor . Brother Fiske ably conducted the Fourth Division Conference and th e Ritual Committee welcomes him and wishes him every success. To Brother Taylor go all
our good wishes for a continued recu pera tion. The strong ties of fraternal rega rd and personal friendship have endeared Ray and his wonderful wife, Dora , to each of us w ho have known them over the yea rs.
SCHEDULE OP CONFERENCES

Division
VI

III

v

IV
I and II

As.<!stant Grand Lecturer

W. Ben Sorrells
A rth ur J. Kahn
Robert A .Crigler
Wallace H. Fiske
Clare B. Campbell
Harold N. Richards

Held at

Date

Vic tor ville
C oncord
San Diego
Yosemite

March 20-22
April 17-19
Ma y 1-3
June 5-7

Bijou

June 1 9~21

GRJ\NO LODGE OF CJ\LIFORNIJ\

124

125

PROCEEOINGS OP THE

.

The Annual Lodge of Instruction for Inspectors, required by Section
I 56, 5th, was held October 10. 1964 at 25 Van Ness Avenue, San
Francisco, with Inspectors from each Division exemplifying the work.
The continuing high quality of the Inspectors' work promises well for
the Lodges.
The lnspectoral Corps is an important adjunct to the conduct of
Grand Lodge business throughout the year. The reliance of the Grand
Master for the execution of his aims and continuing programs of the
Grand Lodge lies most strongly on each Inspector. An Inspector who
is a leader, who commands the respect. loyalty and love of the Masons
of his District, can go far in aiding and assi·s ting the Grand Master.
More than this, he can be of inestimable strength to the Lodges and
the brethren.
In our labor of love for Masonry. the Grand Lecturer and the
Assistant Grand Lecturers have been long and consistent advocates of
strengthening the Inspectoral system . No legislation is necessary for
this. Dedication, devotion, leadership and love of the Fraternity are all
that are needed. Most of our Inspectors display these ornam'ents in
their every act.
At the lnspectoral level. we have placed the primary responsibility
for an adequate Candidate Coaching program. A mere recitation of
the catechism does not make either a knowledgeable or an enthusiastic
new Lodge member out of an applicant. Two years ago, by the vote of
this Grand Lodge. there became available to the Lodges, the "Handbook
for Candidates Coaches." The use of the handbook and the method of
certification of Coaches were entrusted in entirety to the Inspectors.
Individual reports made to me by the entire Inspectoral Corps indicate that the plan of broadened education for Candidates Coaches is
actively operating in over 90% of the Districts. We hope that the
remaining few will realize the interest that our membership has in its
own organization. Certainly, our so-called "ima ge," either "private" or
"public," will be better served if our membership has a greater knowledge of itself.
The Grand Lecturer has been privileged this year to make a trip to
the beautiful state of Hawaii. Not only did the Hawaiian Inspectors and
Officers Coaches perform, but the Candidates Coaches of the Lodges of
Oahu gave the Candidates Lectures. There is increasing skill in the
work. and the spirit of Masonry pervades the atmosphere of each Island.
At Lihue, Kauai. Kahalui, Maui, and at Hilo and Kailua, Kona on Hawaii,
we met with the members of the Lodges and their wives, continuing the
friendships made and making new ones. To each of them, a warm Aloha.
The privilege of serving with, and serving, our Grand Master has
made this a memorable year for me. His unassuming modesty and his
ability belie each other. The qualities of kindness and steadfast courage
show when the going is rough. I trust that he will remember his associ-

'th the Inspectoral Corps and the Ritual Committee as a satisfy.
•0 9
many courtesies extended by the Grand Secretary and his staff
. ie to ease the burdens 0 £ office and too many thanks cannot be
con t int

~uon w1erience in a full and rewarding year of his service.

.rte

giveI't ~::~~en a pleasure to serve the Brethren of California and I thank
h m for the privilege.

t e

Respectfully submitted.
DoNALO G. CAMPBELL,
Grand Lecturer

Referred to Committee on Finance.

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
_The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
their Seve~ty-second Annual Report for the yea r ending June 30. 1964,
together with the Annual Reports of the Superintendent of our Home fo
our senior g uests in Union City and the Superintendent of our Children' r
s
Home in Covina.

127

who was subsequently appointed by the Grand Master as Grand
Treasurer and who by virtue of this offiice is now Treasurer of the Homes
Board. Brother Pflueger. as you know, has served this Grand Lodge for
many years as Assistant Grand Treasurer and as Chairman of the Investment Committee. In these capacities, by reason of his vast experience
in the investment field , his services have been unique and most valuable.
We welcome him in his new capacity and are extremely pleased to have
him working even closer with the H omes Board of Trustees.

0RGANIZATION

The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco on October 18, 1963,
for the purpose of organization. The election of Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand M aster; Myron E. Smith, Senior Grand Warden, and
Laurence E. Dayton, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to
the Board, and on motion duly made, seconded and carried, they were
elected members of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried, Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.,
.
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried. L. H arold Anderson
was elected Vice President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge F . & A. M.
of Cali~ornia, Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren was Treasurer of
Masonic Homes of California.
By ~irtu~ o f his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge F. & A. M.
of Ca!t_fornia, Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems is Secretary of
Masonic Homes of California.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the following Trustees compose the Board. The date of the
termination of their three year appointments is also shown.
Edgar V . Stewart, Jr.
1964
L. H arold Anderson
Phil N. Myers
I 965
James Leo Halley
Edward J. Blickfeldt
1966
Alfred F . Breslauer
Just prior. to the preparation of this report your Board suffered the
untimely and irreparable loss of its Treasurer, P as t Grond Master Arthur
M. W arren. The Board of Trustees has never had a man more devoted
to t?e welfare of our Homes or any more competent to hnndle its fiscal
affairs. A banker by profession, his services to the Board were invaluable
an_d. he will always be remembered most kindly by those who had the
privilege of working with him. He served for one year as Pres ident of the
Board and probably still would have been in that position if he had not
been elevated to the office of Grand Treasurer in 1960. The Board has
spread upon the minutes and forwarded to his widow an appropriate and
well deserved resolution memorializing him as il rea l Mason who was
devoted and untiring in his efforts on behalf of our M asonic Homes.
The Board welcomes as its new Treasurer Brother Paul A . Pflueger

UNION CITY

In our report to you last year we asked tha t you cardully check your
applican ts for admission to the Homes before submitti n g their applications to the Board. We are again repeating this plea, with particular
reference to the physical qualifications of the applicants to our home in
Union City.
As you know, our entrance requirements require a ll a pplicants to be
in reasonably good health, able to take care of themselves and their
rooms and be completely ambulatory.
It has been most exasperating on many occasions during the past
year, after having a signed statement from a physician vouching for the
above qualifications. to find that the applicant ha s had to be h ospitalized
immedia tely upon arrival, oftentimes suffering from difficulties of long
standing, completely ignored in the doctor's report. We cannot understand this. b ut it explains our frequent request for an additional medical
report by a doctor of ottr designation if there is a nything in our files to
indicate its desirability. We further reques t tha t the original medical
report be made by an impartial examiner rather than a doctor friend of
the applicant or the lodge.
We repea t also that a more careful check on the part of the lodge
will often disclose the lack of qualifications of an applicant prior to having
the lodge request admission, with the attendant savings to the Board of
the expense of a social worker's investigation . Your careful compliance
with this request will be very much appreciated.
Please remember that if your problem is that of taking care of an
indigent aged brother, his wife or his widow, that admission to the Home
is not your only available help. If your applicant cannot physically qualify for admission to the H ome but qualifies in every other way. yo u may
apply for what we term "outside relief" and monthly assistance may be
granted to help you carry the load.
It should be borne in mind that the Masonic Homes of California is
a charity . The fact that a brother has had the privilege o f being a Mason
for a substantial number of years does not, in itself, automatically convey
to him the right to be our guest in his advancing years. We appeal to you
members of Grand Lodge, who are the leaders of our craft, to see to it
that this fact is more generally understood.

128

129

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

We are pleased to report that you who visit the Union City Home on
Wednes day will find our newest dormitor y building , the Charles Albert
Adams H a ll. in operation . There will be a brief ceremon y as we unveil
the name plaque memorializing o ur late tru stee, Charlie Adams, as he
was known to so many who loved and respected him for his almost forty
years of devoted service to the Homes. The building will accommo date
approxim ately ninety guests and was particula rly planned for the accommod ation of married couples. It should also obviate the necessity of
any waiting list in the foreseeab le futu re. The upper flloor has been made
adapt~ble for o ur guests who need a certa in amount of superviso
ry
att~nt1on. who now necessar ily are residing in our hospital at a
higher
u.nit cost. The lower floor also provides occupational therapy and recreational areas. We are sure you will be pleased with this newest a ddition
for the further accommo dation of our senior guests.
Superint endent Gail David's report appende d hereto will reveal the
statis~ics and activities of the Home for the past year. Again we
pay
our smcere respects to this brother and his staff for their tireless and
patient effort·s in the complex assignm ent of administ ering to the needs
and whims of about 365 oldsters. Their task is not an easy one and we
are grateful for their continue d service.

proximat ely one-half mile of lake frontage on a peninsul a, which will
s great privacy to say nothing of an extremely valuable lease.
givThis area is accessibl e the yea r round and a number o f building s
being winterize d to provide winter sports accommo dations as well as
:~~er camp facilities. I t is anticipat ed that the camp will be used by our
oungster s continua lly througho ut the year.
. .
y The rehabilit ation o f the camp has placed a tremendo us add1t1onal
burden on Superint endent Bob H enry and h~s entire staff, w~o bef?re
this acquisiti on were kept sufficiently busy carmg for and supermtendt~g
the manifold activities of the largest populati on. the Home. h~s had m
t yeal's. His report appende d to ours will give the statistics of t~e
recen
. . .
f th.
e
Home as well as a brief summary of the many activ1ttes
o
is en rge t 1c
group.
T o Superint endent H enry and his staff we express our gratt·t ud e for
their labors far in excess of the call of duty.
Your Board of Trustees and Super intenden~ H e.nry have spen.t a
ny hours contemp lating the many ram1ficat1ons of a possible
grea t ma
· r
f
relocation of our Covina Home ·for Children . The rapt'd ur b an1za
ton o
r present location which was originall y isolated by orange groves, has
~~tirely changed th'e characte r of the a rea and its desirabili~y for our
purpose. M any of the buildings are nearing the half centur~ m age and
in many ways are obsolete a s regards practical and economical use. The
Board has made a determin ation that for these reasons as well as. fro1?
the standpoint of economy in the years ahead that a ne": locat~on .ts
both necessar y and desirable and is pursuing a n aggressive po!tcy m
attemptin g to lo~ate a reasonab le and adaptabl e site.

COVINA

. .In ou~ report to you of last year we mentione d that we were in nego-

t1at1on with a wealthy non-Mas on who wa nted to make us a tax gift of a
very acceptab le mountain camp for the use of our young people at our
Covina H ome. We are ha ppy to report that as of this spring we came
into possessio n of Stilwell's Camp a t Big Bear Lake, a camp that has been
a landmar k there for years and which is undoubte dly known to many of
you who are familiar with the area.
The gift consists of the assignme nt of slightly over ten acres of
ground leased from the Bear Valley Mutual W ater Compan y for the
period ending April 30. 1986, with an option to renew for an additiona l
twenty-f ive y ears, together with all of the improve ments on the property
as well as the personal property conta ined therein. The cost of this
leasehold is only $1900 a year plus ta xes. The property was extremel y
run down and the contents of Jittle or no value, but we were able to
salvage several of the larger building s on the premises and adapt them to
our purposes , at the same time razing others and adding camping facilities. The cost of rehabilit ating this camp is being borne by the Covina
Reserve account which has been accumlat i ng from 51ifts specifica lly made
for the benefit of the activities of the Children 's Home.
In recent yea rs Big Bear Lake has been practically drained for irrigation purposes which has grea tly impaired its value as a recreatio n area.
M ovement s are on foot however to restore the lake and we feel that
ultimatel y they w ill be success fu] . If and when this occurs we w i11 have

8

~

FINANCE S

There seems to be no disputing the fact, because we hear it from so
many who a re in a position to know, that the Masonic Homes of California opera te two of the finest M asonic Homes to b e found anywher e.
giving more attention and service to our guests both old and young than
most other compara ble homes.
. .
.
A recent survey of per capita costs of Home operation m t~e vano~s
gra nd jurisdicti ons in the United States discloses some interest~ng statistics. Of the twelve Grand Lodges operating Homes for both ch1ldr~n and
adults. whose figures are available . we find only one whose per capita tax
for the H omes operatio ns is as low as ours, $1.00 per year per member.
All the others range from $1.50 to $4.00 per capita and the average
comes to exactly $2.25.
.
.
One of the factors of course which holds our per capita
tax down ts
our Endowm ent Fund which continue s to grow by an increasin g amount
each year due to the hard wor king Endowm ent Board under the guidance
and direction of its tireless Chairma n, John M. Gordon. You unders~and
of course that only the income on this fund can be used fo r the mamte -

130

131

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

nance of our Homes. Despite the excellen t record of income maintain ed
by the Investme nt Committ ee under the chairmanship of our most
compete nt Grand Treasure r, Paul A. Pflueger, the increased income
from this fund offsets only in part other negative factors affecting our
budget.
Of first and primary importan ce of course is inflation, or in plainer
terms the increasin g cost of goods and services.
Secondly is our decrease d income from our reserve funds due to the
recent construc tion of our hospital and the more recent Charles Albert
Adams Hall.
Also our members hip is not growing as it once was. This of course
narrows the base of the per capita tax. Then, too. the new members and
affiliates are not coming in as fast as they once were and you will recall
that each of them contribu tes $25 toward the maintena nce of the Homes.
The amount received this year from this source was approxim ately
$18.000 less than seven years ago. This alone amounts to over 20c per
capita.
And then there is the fact that we have had a deficit during the past
several years which has been made up from and further reduced our reserves. Obvious ly this cannot continue indefinitely.
You may recall that last year we stated in our report that an increased
per capita request was inevitabl e this year. We find that nothing has
occurred to change the situation. Every indicatio n at this time tends to
show that even with a substanti al per capita increase, we will undoubt edly be faced with a substant ial deficit at the end of the coming year.
despite the efforts of your Board of Trustees to "hold the line." We have
every confidence in this Grand Lodge understa nding the situation and
voting to maintain the Masonic Homes in a manner fitting the dignity
and reputatio n of the Grand Jurisdict ion. We have no alternati ve therefore but to respectfully request a 50c per capita increa·s e to a total of
$1.50 for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes of Californ ia for the
next fiscal year.
We are extremel y pleased to report the receipt of an increasin g
number of bequests and estates. More and more brethren seem to be
remembe ring their less fortunate brothers in their wills by bequeath ing
substant ial amounts , indeed oftentim es their entire estates to the Masonic
Homes of Californ ia. This makes it possible for us to arrange for the
necessar y additions and replacem ents so essential to keeping our facilities up-to-da te. Funds so received are reserved for this purpose only and
of course these play an importan t part in keeping down our per capita
tax. We are very grateful to those who thus have remembe red the Homes
and we suggest that frequent appropri ate publicity be given through the
lodge bulletins to this manner of supporti ng our charitabl e institutio ns.

that the craft can render than to give compl~te ease an.cl comfort to our
enior citizens and at the same time bring mto maturity young people
denied the advantag es of natural home environm ent. Those of us close
to this activity are continua lly thrilled to be, on your behalf, a party to
this great charity and we thank you for your support.

CONCLUS ION

Your Board is of the unanimo us opinion that there is no finer service

Respectf ully submitte d,
EDGAR V. STEWAR T, JR ., President
L. HAROLD ANDERSO N, Vice President
PHIL N . MYERS
ALPRED F. BRESLAU ER
THEODO RE MERIAM
MYRON E. SMITH
LAURENC E E. DAYTON
JAMES LEO HALLEY
EDWARD
BLICKFEL DT

J.

Referred to Committ ee on Finance.

132

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

E
REPO RT OF SUPE RINT END ENT - MAS ONIC HOM
AT UNIO N CITY (Deco to)

f h M
t
To the Board of T
rus ees o t e asonic Home s of California:
Brethren:
.
b .
It is my sincer e pleasu re and dut t
annua l report
eighth
my
m1t
9~;.u
~
30th,
June
for the fiscal year ending
The popula tion on July l st 1963
. was 149 men and 223 wome n,
includ ing 22 marrie d cou I Th
e age was 81.70 years.
averag
e
ve
m~nes~
22
Durin g the year
80.77 yea.rs, and 23 women .
of
g~
e~~~:
averag e age 79.13 years, e~ter
We laid to rest 20 men.
ome.
n
wome
32
and
years.
averag e age 86.00
' averag e age of 85.22 years.
As of June 30th 1964 th
of 362 reside nts in the Home
t.otal
a
was
e3re
21
d
consis ting of 149 m~n an
T ·
· d
Women, tnclud ing 20 marne
coup1es. he
. 82 .09 years.
averag e age of the 362 reside nt sis
W
M
Age Groups
Total
omen
6cn
60-69
6
12
41
70-79
63
04
I
80-89
82
194
Il 2
90-99
52
32
20
. 362
. I
OE th e 362 total, 117 were in the h osph1ta
. of which 105 a re perrnane11t. There were also 32
~vomen on It e 1th floor north <1nd e.1st
wings, who arc receiv ing n
p us 35 men on I s t fl oor north
urstng care
.·
an d eas t wings where a n ord 1
These
superv ised by the hos~~t~l a::~~s with their daily needs.
are
Again this past year our hos . I . h as been compl etely filled to
capaci ty on numer ous occas1· ons. pita
W
.
.
e are happy to report that Mrs. Elean or F
contin ues to
be our Hospi tal Superv isor. She fulfills he d . am~, RN., t efficiency.
'd r ut~es with utmos
Her kindne ss and intere st in all th
e res1 ents is reflected in the nursin g
care they receive.
There has been no chang e in our medic al progra m. The Home is
.
contin uing the servic es of the p a Io Al to c1·m1c
d
. ' t·
Labo ratory servic es a re furnish ed b th F and th e v1s1
tng octors .
h Yb e remon t Labor atory in Fremoot. T he entire medirn l serv··c
i e as een most sa ti'sfac·tory d ttn·n'.J th':'.
e
past year to all the reside nts.
.
S
Brothe r Hugh Herrin g is the A .
t as well as
servin g Mt. Diablo Lodge No. 'H8 ::1~nt up~r111tenden
r Hugh
Brothe
year.
this
baster
.
t
con tinues to take a very activ
. He
Home
the
of
ion
operat
e
t
I~
r
we~ta
the
for
t
has a sincere interes
reside nts.
The only chang e in our admi~~~t~:tivconten tme~t of all the
was the
year
the
Matro n. Mrs. Betty Dagge r repla d M e ~aff .during
ber
Decem
on
Olson
:
arnett
rs.
J 6. 1963. Since ta king over Mr ceD
most
duties
her
d
fulfille
f
l
has
~ggher
t
s.
efficiently and with heartfe lt. inte
res m t e we are of our reside nts.

all

GRA ND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

133

we have
During the year we purcha sed a 12 passen ger bus and
have inThese
trips.
y
weekl
make
to
year,
endea vored throug hout the
that are
nts
reside
those
and
al
hospit
the
in
some
for
cluded short trips
handic apped in the Home .
charte red
Everyone seems to en joy these trips to the fullest . We have
follies.
ice
the
and
busses for larger group s to attend a baseba ll game
t of
benefi
the
for
given
There have been many interes ting progra ms
ic
Mason
the
to
ed
indebt
are
we
the reside nts during the year. For these
ters.
Daugh
Jcib's
Girl~.
inbow
Ra
.
Lodge s. Berkel ey Masonic Club House
other groups.
DeMo lay, Music ians' Union in San Leand ro, and many
To each group we extend our sincer e thanks and apprec iation.
with T .V.
Our home folks find many ways to entertain themse lves,
s Sunservice
radio, cards. mo\'ie s every Thurs day evenin g and church
has
which
library
tocked
s
day aftern oon. In additi on, we have a well
.
library
county
the
from
ned
loa
books
many sets of refere nce books also
niently
conve
ption
descri
every
of
books
re
a
Throu ghout the Home
locate d.
Maste r and
The annua l visitat ion of our Most Worsh ipful Grand
highlig hts
the
the Board of Truste es on Janua ry 18th. 1964. was one of
l visit.
annua
and
g
of the year. The Truste es held their quarte rly meetin
which
after
g,
evenin
the
in
held
A reception for the Grand Maste r was
"
show.
on
"fashi
terrific
a
with
the reside nts entert ained them
was anothe r
The annua l Grand Lodge Visita tion on Octob er 16th
s and each
visitor
1400
y
imatel
approx
were
There
highli ght of the year.
a
and salad for
was served a specia lly prepar ed hambu rger, with beans
lunch.
Matro n of
Anoth er big day was the annua l recept ion for the Grand
Matro ns'
Past
Bay
East
by
Order of Easter n Star, held on Augus t 17th
assort an
with
Day,
Jelly
&
Jam
l
A ssocia tion. Th is was also the annua
elt
heartf
our
s
expres
to
tunity
oppor
this
take
ment of other goodie s. We
.
utions
contrib
us
genero
most
thanks for their
of Easter n
We wish to expres s our apprec iation to a ll the memb ers
and other
Star for their contri bution s of dressin gs, pads, books. vases
and
gowns
many
the
for
ite ms. Also our thanks to the sewing clubs
lap robes given for the reside nts use.
as T .V.'s,
To those who made contr ibution s of various items such
and
thanks
e
sincer
our
extend
we
items,
other
clothin g. books a nd many
apprec iation.
the lodges,
On behalf of the reside nts we expres s our gratitu de to
Christ mas
our
to
buted
contri
groups and individ ua ls who so gracio usly
merry
very
a
d
enjoye
they
gifts
a nd Entert ainme nt Funds . By these
Christ mas.
the many
We greatly appre ciate the gratis movies afford ed us by
e thanks
sincer
our
Booking C ompan ies in San Franci sco during the year,
to each one of them.

134

135

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

During the year there were 4,129 visitors that signed our register
representing 535 lodges in California and Hawaii, 28 foreign jurisdictions and 5 foreign countries.
On behalf of all the staff, I wish to express our sincere thanks to the
residents for their assistance and cooperation in helping to make this
their Home.
I wish to express my appreciation to all the personnel for their
assistance and cooperation to me and their interest in caring for all the
residents both in the Home and hospital, serving the Board of Trustees
and the Fraternity has been a sincere pleasure, your confidence is greatly
appreciated.
My personal thanks to each Board Member for your assistance and
confidence and your great interest in the Home and its residents.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT COVINA HOME

Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is indeed a great pleasure to submit my sixteenth annual report as
Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina. for the
year ending June 30, 1964.
HoME MEMBERSHIP

As of June 30, 1964, the Covina Home shows approximately a
twenty-five percent increase over last year's population at the same time.
At present our Home Family numbers twenty-nine girls and thirty-nine
boys, for a total of sixty-eight children. Durin g the fiscal year of 19631964, twenty-four young people were admitted; thirteen boys and eleven
girls. Thus it will be seen that almost one-third of our present population
has been in the Home less than one year. Five boys and four girls were
above twelve years of age at the time of admission, which mea ns that
many of their living patterns were well-established prior to the moment
of entrance. Of the eleven youngsters who departed from the Home,
seven were boys, four were girls. Six of the children returned to live wi th
their families. The other five young people. who were graduated from
Charter Oak High School. will pursue the following program: one boy
will attend La Verne College; one boy California State Polytechnic College at Pomona; and the third young man has been accepted by the
United States Air Force. The two graduating girls will attend Ventura
Junior and U.C.L.A . college courses, respectively.
Families
Family Status
Children
4
Orphans
4
9
14
H / 0 Fathers Living
3
4
H / 0 Mothers Living
22
Both Parents Living
46
~-

-38-

The children at Covina are, as usual, encouraged to participate in
many school and extracurricular activities. Placement of the Home
Family according to grade level is as follows: twenty-four children in
high school. seventeen in junior high, and twenty-seven in grade school.
Two graduates, Fred Clinkscale and Bruce Warrick, will live at the
Home while they attend La Verne College and California Polytechnic
College, respectively. They are, also, recipients of the H ome Scholarship
Fund.
A full and vigorous program for the continued develop ment of a
sound body and a healthy mind involves some of the following types of
activities: Athletics (school and H ome competition}; Swimming and
Lifesaving; Camping, Surfing, Boating, Fishing, water-skiing, horseback
riding; cultural visits, travel. Arts and Crafts; week-end trips; Museums
and Zoos. In addition, the children are encouraged to become members
of community you th groups such as Orders of Job's Daughters, D e

136

PROC EEDINGS OP THE

Molay, Rainbow for Girls. Campfire Girls. Brownies. Scouts. Little
League, and many other recognized and approved character and spiritual-building organizations. The Masonic Pioneers 4-H Club activities
also provide for growth and development for many of our family through
projects and shows where their efforts bring recognition and reward.
Supplementary tutoring help has been available for those children
who appeared to require it. both from the Home Teacher, responsible for
the usual academic subjects, and the specialized tutors who helped at
the high school level. Every effort is made to assist the youngsters to
achieve their potential. through remedial and accelerated tutoring programs. In addition to the above, a regular schedule of diagnostic testing
and counseling involving individual and group therapy is a part of our
planned program to meet each child's needs.
The staff of the Magan Clinic in Covina has continued to supervise
the medical and health program for the Covina Family, with the regular,
yearly examinations supplemented by additional consultations whenever
these are indicated. Ordinary dental care and hygiene are offered by a
visiting dentist at the Home hospital. Specialists supervise the care and
needs for problems connected with orthodontics. ophthamology. optom etry, orthopedics, plastic work, etc.
The contact between the Alumni and the Home is unique in the
history of Homes for children. The office maintains a roster of at least
five hundred current addresses. The yearly Newsletter devotes half its
pages to letters from graduates. Additionally, all of the Covina Home
Reunions are covered. A picnic in Sacramento on the first Saturday in
June, a Reunion at Covina on the second Sunday in September, and a
Dinner in San Francisco. the Saturday preceding Grand Lodge Communication, marked the year 1963. with the annual Dinner Dance taking
place in April of 1964. The San Francisco Dinner enjoyed the largest
attendance since its inception, with many of the diners traveling from
the Los Angeles area to be present. A number of the San Francisco
area Alumni came south for the dinner dance.
A sixteenth year is in a sense a kind of beginning again, for in some
respects the challenge of the Administration of the Home has been renewed by its increased population trend and the acceptance of older
children. The decrease in average length of Home membership affects
the continuation of some traditions. and, correspondingly, establishes
new ones.
As mentioned in my last report, I am. indeed. grateful for the opportunity to serve the children and the Fraternity. Many rich and rewarding
experiences are compensated to an individual privileged to serve children.
but especially is this true in our Home Family where the Fraternity
through the Board of Trustees is dedicated to the principle of Brotherly
Lov~.

Respectfully submitted
ROBERT M. HENRY, Superintendent

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board hereby submits its 32n<l
Annual Report. for your thoughtful consideration. covering the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1964.
PRINTED ITEMS Qp PUBLICITY

During the past year, the Lodges ordered 1.600.000 printed items of
publicity from the Endowment Board for sending to their members to
inform the brethren about our Masonic Homes. and to encourage them
to make a contribution to the Endowment Fund. The greater amount of
credit for this phase of our work goes to the Lodges. especially the
Lodge Secretaries, for the great amount of work involved in sending
such items to the members.
Something new was added a year ago and will be repeated this
coming season. Last year for the first time. this Board offered certain
"Christmas" and "Holiday" printed items for the Lodges to send to the
members in November and December. to encourage the brethren to
make a special "Christmas" or "Holiday Season" gift to the Homes
Endowment Fund. The Lodges ordered nearly 300.000 such items and
they met with such good success that additional ones are being offered
for the coming season.
BEQUESTS

Bequests in the amount of $106,661.77 were received into the
Endowment Fund from the Estates of brethren and their families and
friends who remembered the Homes Endowment in their Wills, and
thus left a Living Memorial to the Masonic Homes. This is in addition
to the bequests that were made directly to the Masonic Homes for new
buildings and other purposes.
The Endowment Board made an additional mailing of information
to the 1700 attorneys who are Masons whose names are on file with
the Endowment Board. In addition, the Lodges ordered 43,000 of our
pamphlets entitled "My Last Will and Testament" for mailing to
members.
INCO ME FROM THE ENDOWMENT FUND

The earnings from the Endowment Fund for the past year amounted
to $486.936.00 which amount was credited to the cost of maintaining
our Masonic Homes. The principal of the Endowment Fund always
remains intact. and only the income therefrom can be used in the operation of the Homes.

138

INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION

This past fiscal year, 118, l 96 individual brethren made contributions
to the Endowment Fund, for an increase of nearly 2,000 above a year
ago. These figures disclose that only 48 % of the brethren made a contribution to the Homes Endowment Fund. It is regrettable tha t the
load is carried by less than half of the members. We hope the Lodges
will "go all out" this coming year to materially increase the number of
contributors that "all may share" in this important phase of Masonry.
INDIVIDUAL CoNTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LooGES

Individual contributions this year amounted to $783,339.94 for an
increase of $42,098.47 above a year ago. This figure does not include
bequests, memorials, or special gifts from organizations. In addition, 52
Lodges sent in a total of $8.176.00 during the first 10 days o f July.
but which were received too late to be included in the audited figures as
of the close of the fiscal year on June 30th. Obviously, those late payments could not be included in the individual Lodge figures in subsequent p ages of this report, but will be included in the 1965 report.
272 Lodges decreased in amount of contributions this year.
The average contribution per member this year was $3 .20 as compared to $3.03 per member a year ago. The average per contributor
this year was $6.63 as compared to $6.37 the previous year. This
average "per contributor" figure seems to indicate that too many brethren are still thinking in terms of "$2 per member" which has long since
become obsolete.
This Board does not suggest any specified amount that each member
should give, and certainly not $2 per member which was started 30
years ago. Times have changed, and money values too. We think that
the amo unt of the contribution should be left to the individual brother
according to his finances, his conscience, and his concern for his fraternity and his less fortun ate brethren and their families.
H onor Roll status was attained by 637 Lodges this year, by averaging $2 or more per member. However, the $2 per member Honor Roll
is now considered as a mininmum - a mile-post or stepping-stone but not the real goal.
$3 OR M ORE AVERAGE P ER MEMBER
A much greater "Honor" than the Honor Roll is for a Lodge to be in
the special listing of those Lodg~ which averaged $3 or more per
member, listed as below according to average, a nd to be as high as
possible on that list. T o the Lodges listed below, we give our special
thanks and congratulations for going the "second mile" or the third
or fourth or fifth "mile" and even higher. Last year there were 346
Lodges on this list. This year there are 397, as follows:

139

GRANO LOOGI!. OP CALI FORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.

Lodge

Average
amount
per member

786 Rio Linda ............................$10.31
U.D. Wm. B. Ogden .................. 10.23
800 Rio Hondo ............................ 9.84
200 Truckee ................................ 9.40
698 Wm. D. Stephens .............. 9.01
780 Riviera ................................ 8.20
805 Camellia .............................. 7.88
278 Southern California ............ 7.53
8 12 Triad ..........._...................... 7.20
733 Golden Empire .................... 6.79
740 O pportun ity ........................ 6.67
716 Belmont Shore .................... 6.52
595 Alexander Graham Bell .... 6.51
802 Yu cca Valley ...................... 6.40
455 Go l d~ n West ...................... 6.39
580 S <.l !lta Maria ........................ 6.36
778 La r, lirada ......... ...... ........... 6.29
766 Jamt"S H. Kew .................... 6.23
768 Zenith .................................. 6.22
743 O akwood ............................ 6.19
758 West Covina ...................... 6.05
789 O<ik P lains .......................... 5.99
813 Old West ............................ 5.99
HS Wilshire .............................. 5.91
808 Sceptor ................................ 5.87
566 James A. GarAeld ................ 5.83
790 Granada Hills ...................... 5.83
797 Ti la Pass .............................. 5.77
385 Dinuba .................................. 5.76
378 Mizpah .................................. 5.75
513 Cahuenga .............................. 5.72
-467 Culver City .,........................ 5.71
811 Woodland H ills .................. 5.70
810 Victoria Palms .................... 5.58
727 Verd ugo Hills...................... 5.57
307 Santa M onica ...................... 5.55
122 Eagle Rock .......................... 5.52
814 Plaza de Los Angeles.......... 5.52
685 San Marino .......................... 5.50
508 Joppa .................................... 5.47
650 La Brea ................................ 5.46
623 Menorah .............................. 5.44
781 Rolling Hills ........................ 5.40
739 La Canada .......................... . 5.38
737 Hillsborough ........................ 5.35
755 Golden Bowl........................ 5.35
251 Reading ................................ 5.28
616 Metropolitan ........................ 5.22
7i5 Peninsula .............................. 5.21
637 Palisades .............................. 5.20
220 Downey ................................ 5. 19
-450 Van Nuys ............................ 5.19
612 La Cumbre ............................ 5.17
56 Volcano ................................ 5. 15
U.O. Manhattan............................ 5. 14
529 Loyalty ................................ 5. I 2
767 William Rhodes Hervey...... 5.09
599 Carmelita .............................. 5.08

No.

Lodge

Average
amount
per member

765 Dana R. Weller....................
300 Redlands ..............................
794 Mt. Wilson ..........................
74 1 Tyre ......................................
273 Anchor..................................
492 Garvanza ..............................
715 Magnolia Park ....................
61 4 Larchmont ............................
730 Polaris ..................................
662 Henry Knox ........................
622 Atwater ................................
542 North Hollywood................
7 10 Anacapa ................................
20 Washington..........................
699 Bixby Knolls ........................
763 Arabic ..................................
452 San Pasqual ..........................
464 Alta Vista ............................
734 Kit Carson ............................
803 The Gabilan ........................
373 West Los Angeles................
475 America ................................
783 Moj ave...................... ............
202 Pentalpha ..............................
533 Azure ....................................
612 Temple City ........................
732 San Juan ..............................
437 Lancaster ..............................
394 University ............................
95 Henry Clay ..........................
697 Saint Elmo ............................
448 Mount Oiablo ......................
712 Los Altos..............................
436 Claremont ............................
368 Unity ....................................
586 Garden Grove......................
309 Delano ..................................
578 Progressive ..........................
40 Sacramento ..........................
355 Hollywood ............................
516 San Gabriel ..........................
325 Consuelo ..............................
702 Rosemead ..............................
742 Morningside Park ..............
352 Sunset ....................................
26 E l Dorado ............................
261 Hesperian ..............................
73 1 Two Rivers ..........................
504 Seaside..................................
3 Tehama ................................
779 F ive Points ..........................
482 Clarence F. Smith................
174 Drytown ..............................
547 Arcadia ................................
527 Covenant ..............................
663 Ojai ......................................
50 Forbestown ..........................
785 Paramount ............................

5.03
5.02
4.96
4.94
4.87
4.87
4.85
4 .84
4.83
1.82
4.80
1.79
1.75
1.74
4.74
4.74
1.71
4.70
4.70
4.69
4.68
4.65
4.60
1.59
4.57
4.57
4.56
4.51
4.53
4.52
4.52
4.51
1.51
4.48
4.47
4.46
4.42
1.42
4.40
4.10
4.38
4.37
4.34
1.34
1.33
4.32
4.32
1.31
1.30
1.29
4.29
4.28
4.26
4.26
1 .25
4.24
4.23
4.23

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
amount
per member
No.
Lodge
481 Mt. Davidson ...................... 4.22
729 Centennial ............................ 4.22
762 Coastside .............................. 4.22
290 East Gate .............................. 4.20
54S Triangle ................................ 4.20
769 Palmdale ·······-····------·----------- 4.20
21 Hawaiian .............................. 4.19
372 Gardena ................................ 4.18
791 General Henry H . Arnold .. 4.18
483 Bell --------------·-··--·--·---------·---·- 4.17
713 Castro Valley ...................... 1.16
25 Georgetown .......................... 4.14
414 Arlington .............................. 4.13
322 Alhambra .............................. 4.11
540 Queen Beach ........................ 4.11
544 Glendale ................................ 4.10
585 Manchester .......................... 4.10
144 Oriental ................................ 4.09
19"1 Mountain View .................. 4.09
558 Point Firmin ........................ 4.09
616 R. E. Dolley.......................... 4.08
799 Bay Claire Vista.................. 4.08
HO McCloud ···-········................. 4.07
87 Naval .................................... 4 .06
320 South Gate -··············-----··· 4.06
379 Fillmore ................................ 4.06
327 Long Beach .......................... 4.05
476 Coachella .............................. 4.05
615 H emet ...... ................ ............. 4.05
774 Waikiki ···- ·----·--·-----···---------- 4.03
18 Mounta in Shade .................. 4.02
703 Westchester ........................ 4.01
143 Franklin .................. ............. 4.()()
655 Monte Vista ........................ 4.00
753 Lawndale .............................. 4.00
462 Paul Revere .......................... 3.99
728 Lakewood ............................ 3.99
793 Maya .................................... 3.99
219 Speranza ItaUana ................ 3.98
242 Magnolia .............................. 3.98
I California ............................ 3.97
639 Composite ............................ 3.97
412 Call'xico ................................ 3.96
326 Needles ................................ 3.95
402 Brawley ................................ 3.93
771 Mission Bay ........................ 3.93
400 Burlingame .......................... 3.89
589 Kauai .................................... 3.89
726 Yucaipa ................................ 3.89
367 So. Pasade.na ...................... 3.87
643 Alta Lorna ............................ 3.86
369 Ocean Park .......................... 3.85
470 Lincoln .................................. 3.84
SH Signal .................................... 3.8'1
598 Pearl Harbor ........................ 3.83
"117 Clovis .................................... 3.82
659 La Habra .............................. 3.82
245 Laurel.................................... 3.81

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
No.
701 Santa Ynez Valley.............. 3.80
807 Conejo Valley ...................... 3.79
596 Guardian .............................. 3.79
173 Elk Grove ............................ 3.77
390 Imperial ---·-------·-·········-·-··-···· 3.77
477 T emblor ................................ 3.76
709 Lorenzo ................................ 3.75
645 A. F. E. Irwin...................... 3.73
677 Libera l Arts .......................... 3.72
169 Mission ................................ 3.71
594 St'rvice ............. .................... 3.70
600 Lynwood .......................... ... 3.69
636 John Marshall ...................... 3.69
5 Benicia .................................. 3.68
10 Sa n Jose................................ 3.68
334 Covina .................................. 3.68
764 Heritage _.............................. 3.68
106 Arcata .................................. 3.67
516 Taft ...................................... 3.67
444 Carpinteria .......................... 3.66
293 Orange Grove ...................... 3.64
538 Ascot .................................... 3.64
795 American River .................. 3.64
16 E ureka .................................. 3.63
324 Corona .................................. 3.63
661 M alta .................................... 3.62
762 Luther Burbank .................... 3.62
120 Fidelity ................................ 3.61
150 Molina ................................ 3.61
629 F airview .............................. 3.61
188 O akland .... .......... ................. 3.60
605 G lassell Park ........................ 3.60
784 Leland Stanford .................. 3.60
128 Visalia .................................. 3.59
139 Crockett ................................ 3.59
319 Hollenbeck ............................ 3.59
506 M ount Olive ........................ 3.59
588 El Sereno.............................. 3.57
706 Hunter's Point NavaL ....... 3.57
666 Reseda ··-----·---------··--····--------- 3.56
688 Oildale ··-··----.. ·-···------~----- 3.55
226 San Ma teo ....... ... ................ 3.54
357 Buena Park .......................... 3.54
528 Beverly Hills ........................ 3.54
535 Alexander H<1milton ............ 3.54
788 Sierra .................................... 3.54
521 Piedmont .............................. 3.53
696 Crossroads ............................ 3.52
718 San Lorenzo Valley............ 3.52
358 G olden State ........................ 3.51
451 Montebello ............................ 3.51
505 Sil ver Co rd .......................... 3.51
635 Riverside .............................. 3.51
792 Millbrae ................................ 3.51
145 V it.ruvius .............................. 3.50
198 Wilmington .......................... 3.50
421 Inglewood .................__________ 3.49
724 Fortitude .............................. 3.49

GRJ\ND LODGE OP CAL!PORNIA

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
:-Jo.
168 Redwood City ...................... 3.48
217 l'vlonterey .............................. 3.48
627 Lamanda P ark ...................... 3.48
756 Cla yton V alley .................... 3.47
259 E vergreen ............................ 3.46
313 Tehachapi ........................... - 3.46
328 Redondo ................-............... 3.46
644 Lomita .................................. 3.46
656 Citro) .................................... 3.46
3.45
228 Athens .............. ....
370 A mity-Seal Rcxk ................ 3.H
777 Pinnacle ..........................-..... 3.44
708 Seafaring .............................. 3.43
806 S imi Valley .......................... 3.43
224 Bakersfield --····----.................. 3.42
678 Alta dena .............. ............... 3.42
574 S. W . Ha ckett...... ............... 3.41
60 Plumas .................................. 3.40
428 S an Dimas ............................ 3.40
237 G uada lupe ............................ 3.39
267 Galt ...................................... 3.39
383 Orosi ..................... ... .... ....... 3.39
381 O ceanside ............................ 3.37
722 George E. TutL.................. 3.37
192 Santa Barbara ...................... 3.36
479 Golden Ruic ........................ 3.36
660 Baldwin Park ...................... 3.36
329 V alle de Franc e................. 3.35
331 Pacific Grove ...................... 3.35
630 log leside .............................. 3.~~
191 M arin .................................... 3.
707 La ke T a hoe .......................... 3.32
13 Nevada ..............~....... .......... 3.31
399 F raternity ............................ 3.31
"I03 Yerba Buena _....................... 3.31
457 Ramona ................................ 3.31
738 Arvin ...................................- 3.31
76! Josiah W. Roller.................. 3.31
796 Golden Valley ...................... 3.31
101
112
214 S an Buenaventura .............. 3.30
405 Mo ncta ·····----····---.................. 3.30
590 Compass ............................. - 3.30
757 Channel ................................ 3.30
333 Alta ...................................... 3.29
391 East Belt .. ........................... 3.29
581 Security ................................ 3.29
693 Palm Springs ...................... 3.29
776 East Whittier ...................... 3.29
502 Harbor ............................... - 3.28
603 Dimond ____ ............................ 3.28
809 Los Alamitos ...................... . 3.28
576 El Cajon Valle y..... ...... .... 3.27
607 Sojourner ..........................-... 3.27
668 San Gorgonio ...................... 3.27
346 Palo Alto .........-.................... 3.26
356 Mill Valley ·-·-··-.................. 3.26

~~~;m-lt·::=:::==::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~

141

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
No.
522 Sunrise .................................. 3.26
618 Southland .............................. 3.26
667 Meridian .............................. 3.26
670 Green lea f ____,,________.,,............. 3.26
24 Mariposa .............................. 3.25
64 N a toma ................................ 3.25
653 Font;:ma ................................ 3.25
584 Harding ................................ 3.24
787 W estminster ........................ 3.24
804 Moreno V alley .................... 3.24
35 San D iego ............................ 3.23
339 Fullerto n .......... .................. 3.23
410 Charter Rock ............... ·--·---·· 3.23
425 H oltville ................................ 3.22
42 Los Ang eles .......................... 3.21
593 All States ....... . ..... ................ 3.20
604 Jubi lee .................................... 3.20
262 Lompoc ···- ---·------............ ,____ 3.19
801 Koola u .................................. 3. 19
117 Concord ................................ 3.1 7
147 Eel River ........ ..................... 3. 17
209 King David's........................ 3.17
335 West Gate............................ 3.17
694 San A ntonio ........................ 3.17
705 El Cerrito ............................ 3.16
132 Sincerity .............................. 3.15
647 Hawthorne ............................ 3.15
503 Point ...................................... 3. I 4
374 Jewel ······----------...................... 3.13
420 Kerma n ................................ 3.13
512 Palms .................................... 3.13
295 Mt. Jackson .......................... 3.12
HI Coronado .............................. 3.12
563 South P ark .......................... 3.12
579 W arren G. Harding............ 3.12
127 Hermann ............... .. ............ 3.11
131 Woodbridge ........................ 3.11
181 Russian River ...................... 3.11
507 El Seg undo .......................... 3.1 I
523 Bellfiower ........................._.... 3.11
337 Carquinez ............................ 3.10
35 1 Palestine .............................. 3.10
572 James Madison .................... 3.10
592 Tuj unga ................................ 3.10
626 Chula Vista .......................... 3.10
760 Lakeside ................................ 3. 10
89 Rose· s Bar ...... ...................... 3.09
212 South San F rancisco............ 3.09
376 Fra ncis Drake ...................... 3.09
387 Coal inga .......-.......... -----····--- 3.09
434 M aricopa .............................. 3.09
497 Fremont ....... .... .................... 3.09
545 Veritas-Jonathan ................ 3.09
611 Canoga ···--·······--····-----------·--·· 3.09
30 Golden Gate ........................ 3.08
221 Inyo ...................................... 3.08
720 Mineral King ........................ 3.08
7H San Leandro ........................ 3.08

142

No.

2

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
Western St.ar ...................... 3.07
San Benito ............................ 3.07
Richmond ................... ········-· 3.07
Elysian ....................... ........... 3.07
Yorba Linda ........................ 3.07
Santa Paula .......................... 3.06

211
375
418
469
291
299
377
395 Turlock ................................
565 West Adams ........................
682 Barstow ················-··-···········719 Estero ....................................
770 Lake Chabot ........................
234 Hope ······························-·-·····
315 Norwalk ..............................
408 Sierra Madre ........................
609 Provident ..............................
684 Trona ....................................
690 San Carlos ·················-···-·-····
736 Lemon Grove ......................
213 Euca lyptus ..........................
568 Park Boulevard ....................
717 Wayfarer ·················-·········
746 Soquel ..................................
93 St. H elena ·······················-···

~~:~~~ =:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j:~
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.05
3.05

3.05
3.05
3.05
3.05
3.05

3.04
3.04
3.04
3.04
3.03

..No.

Lodge

447
480
602
714
81
203
349
613
617
621
628
648
652
773
123
H2
526
577
692

Average
amount
per member

Torrance ·········-···················
Fellowship ............................
M elrose ................................
Blue Lakes ............................
Yolo ......................................
Confidence ............................
Sequoia ................................
Three Pillars ........................
Big Bear ..............................
The Gardens ........................
Truth ....................................
D amascus ..............................
Crescenta Valley ········-·-·····
Tejon ....................................
Sotoyome ..............................
Blackmer ..............................
Bay City ..............................
Sunnyside ............................
Travelers ··············-··············
55 Suisun ....................................
193 Ferndale ................................
205 Olivet ....................................
361 Fort Bragg ............................
109 Honolulu ..............................

3.03
3.03
3.03
3.03
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.02
3.01
3.01
3.01
3.01
3.01
3.01
3.00
3.00
3.00
3.00

LoDGES WITH LARGEST AMOUNTS OF CONTRIBUTIONS

No.
623
450
355
220
542
87
20
335
596
529
40
3
442

Amount
Lodge
Menorah ..............................$6,489.55
Van Nuys ............................ 6.027.96
H ollywood .......................... 5,344.93
Downefi .............................. 5.120.82
N orth ollywood .............. 1,931.77
N aval .................................. 1.658.19
Washington ........................ 1,241.50
West Gate .......................... 3,786.13
Guardian .............................. 3,770.52
Loyalty ................................ 3.581.00
Sacramt>nto .......................... 3.579,05
T eha ma .......................•...... 3.571,75
Blackmer .............................. 3,139.16

No.

655

42
591
483
155
544
35
506
296
513
278
666

Amount
Lodge
Monte Vista ······················-- 3,430.99
Los Angeles ........................ 3,417.65
S ervice ................................ 3.387.67
Bell ........................................ 3,361.28
Golden West ...................... 3,317.93
Glendale .............................. 3.302.H
San Diego ............................ 3,231.54
Mount Olive ........................ 3,280.68
Silver Gate .......................... 3,208 .47
Cahuenga ............................ 3.110.to
Southern California .......... 3,064.23
Reseda .................................. 3,015.57

SPECIAL HONOR DISTRICTS

lnspectoral District in which all Lodges in the District averaged $5
or more per member listed, with name of Inspector, as follows :
Inspector
No.
572 Thomas J. McK.imson

lnspectoral Districts in which all Lodges in the District averaged $4
or more per member are listed numerically, with name of Inspector:
Inspector
No.
504 James E. Bacon

Inspector
No.
562 Robert A. Simon

113

lnspectoral Districts in which all Lodges in the District averaged $3
or more per member are listed numerically, with name of Inspector:
No.
216
218
219
338
361
368
378
430
508
51 6
522
524
528
530
532

Inspector
Horace R. La Fortune
Fra nk P. Lemen
A. Boyd Collier
Robert M . Montgomery
Clarence C. Smith
Jo hn J. WilHams
(Vacant a t present)
J. Clifton Carpenter
Ray H. Paine
Ha rold S. Mo rrison
Ray L. Peterson
Frank W. Raddatz
Lloyd D . Hanselman
T. Wm. Hcidner
Lawrence C. Lamb

No.
5H
546
552
551
560
564

570
574
580
586
588
594
596

614
628

Inspector
Roy T . Kiele
Charles A. Thomasset
Burton Meyer, Jr.
Arthur Linsk
F rederic Edwin Clark
Wendell L. Goodwin
Elvin C. Drake
Theodore B. Fach
Louis H. M ahler
John A . Owen
Rdbert E. Crist
George Q. E vans
C laudis Thos. Shirley
T ed R. Siems
Riley L. Blurton

CHANGES IN ENDOWMENT BOARD PERSONAL

After serving on this Board for fifteen years, Byron Coleman asked
that he not be re-appointed to another term and he was replaced by
Haig Soghomonian. Past Master of Mission Lodge No. 169. Ralph
S. Brokaw asked not to be re-appointed, after seven years on the Board,
and he was replaced by C. Raymond Winterhalder, Past Master of
San Jose Lodge No. 10. For business reasons, Herschell E . Griffin
asked not to be re-appointed and was replaced by W. W. Reyburn,
Past Master of Garden Grove Lodge No. 586. To those who left the
Board, we say thanks so much for your long years of faithful service.
We know they will continue to enthusiastically support this great work.
OuR APPRECIATION To ALL
It is impossible to name and adequately thank all who have assisted
in this work of the Homes Endowment. All we can do is give a great
big all-inclusive thank you, first to M . W. Elmer W. Heald, Grand
Master, who expressed his concern and gave us a boost at every opportunity; to M. W. Edward H. Siemli, P .G.M ., Grand Secretary. Verne
W . Hendrix, Assistant Grand Secretary, and all members of the Grand
Secretary's staff for their willing helpfulness at every opportunity; to
Donald G. Campbell, Grand Lecturer, and his -staff of Assistant Grand
Lecturers and Inspectors who have assisted us so greatly; to the other
Grand Lodge officers and committeemen all of whom have given us moral
and material support; to the Masters, Secretaries and endowment committeemen of the Lodges, who have borne the lion's share of work
for the endowment Cause in the Lodges, and all other officers and members who have assisted them; to the Board of Trustees of the Homes,
and Robert M. Henry and Gail H . David and their wives, and the
members of the staff of both Homes, for all of these directly administer
to the daily needs and happiness of our children and elderlies; and last

144

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

but not least, to the 118.196 brethren who have shared of their means
that others less fortunate might have a good Home. All of the above
are a vital part of the Homes Endowment team and our thanks go to
every one of them.
IN CONCLUSION

And now, a new Masonic year dawns! Of greater opportunities for
service and devotion! Of greater needs and greater challenges!
A challenge to the officers and brethren of the 272 Lodges that
decreased in contributions this year, that they may re-double their
efforts for the coming year. A challenge . also, to the other 400 Lodges
which increased in contributions this year, that they may not experience
the disappointment of a decrease next year. The Endowment Board
accepts the challenge to "go all out" in our efforts to assist the Lodges
in attaining the greatest record for next year. To that end we offer our
time, our efforts. our experience and our printed material to all Lodges.
The appropriation of $17.000.00 which we hereby humbly request
will assist us in assisting you. Most of this amount will be spent for
printed material which we furnish to the Lodges.
We earnestly solicit the prayerful thoughts and devoted assistance of
every brother in the Jurisdiction, in order that we may adequately
endow our Masonic Homes for all time to come, and thus "insure the
continuance of loving care" to the less fortunate children and elderly
of our great Masonic family.
Respectfully submitted,
THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
JoHN M. GORDON. Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, Vice-Chairman (South)
KENT 0. SEYMOUR. Vice-Chairman (North)
PAUL A. PFLUEGER. Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS. P .G .M .• Secretary

MF.MO RIALS
Amount
Year
3.627.75
1958 ........................... ................. $
3.977.90
1959 ............................................
6,610.60
.
..
........
1960 .................................
10,980.50
1961 ············································
10.388.46
1962 ··········································· ·
1963 ........................................... . 13,144.00
1964 ............................................ 13.266.69

CONTRIBUT IONS THROUGH LoDGES

Amount
Year
1958 .......................................... $421,633.62
1959 .......................................... 502,120.43
1960 .......................................... 551 ,150.34
1961 ························ ·················· 645,453.76
1962 .......................................... 696,787.15
1963 .......................................... 741.241.47
1964 .......................................... 783.339.94
GIFTS F ROM ALL SOURCES

Amount
Year
589.730.78
$
.....
1958 .................................
945,762.32
1959 ........................................
952,127.49
1960 ..................................... .
1.293.941.59
1961 ······································
1962 ....................................... . 1,051 ,007.96
1963 ....................................... . 1,024,140.77
908.580.40
1964 ........................................

Referred to Committee on Finance.
INDIVIDUAL PARTI C! P 1\TION
BOARD MEMBERS
TERMS EXPIRING

1964

1966

1965

ARTHUR A. ANDERSON J . GLEN GLADSON
HINE
RALPH
JOHN M. GORDON
GEoncE C. PoLOYNIS
CHARLES H. GRACE
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH
SY DENNIS
WILLIAM H . SCHOOLER MYRON E. R OUDEBUS H
SHAW, JR .
NORMAN
KENT 0. SEYMOUR
TODD
EVERETT
FRANK R. PORATH

c.

w.
s.

FRED F. ELLIOTT
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
CHARLES F. MINETTI

w. w.

REYBURN
CARROLL A. TREFTS
RAYMOND
WINTERHALDER
HAIG SoGHOMONIAN

c.

(Resigned)

No. of Members
Year
1958 .................................................. 81.686
1959 .................................................. 93.425
1960 ................................................ 100.220
1961 ............................... ................... l 09.733
1962 .................................................. 113.346
1963 ................................................ 116,339
l 964 .. .................. .......................... .. .. l 18. I 96

145

146

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

HoNoR RoLL LooGES

Year

ENDOWKIUIT FUND

No. of Lodges

1958 ·····-········--····--····----······-··-················ 365
1959 ................................................................ 453
1960 .......................... ............... ...........................
502
1961 ······················································ 573
1962 .................................................................... 616
1963
············································· 644
1964 ···········
................................................ ..................
637

July 1, 1963 - Jun• 30 1 196•
(The Lodge deaigna tion indicat e• connec tion by
interea t but not n•c•••a ril1 by •••b•ra hip)
GIFTS AND DONATIONS
KSTATES 1

$3 OR MORE AVERA GE

Year

147

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

No. of Lodges

1958 ............... .................
- .................................... 36
1959
············································ 79
1960 ············································· .
118
1961 -··-·················-------···-----····-- ----······--·· 184
1962 .............................
................... ........................ 269
1963 ..... .................................................. ................. 346
1964 ............................ __ .. ,__ ··---·---·--·-·---···------ 395

MISC,

Allan Edward Aitel {Paul levere Lodge /462)
Henry A, Allen (Paul Revere Lodge #•62)
Harvey Annan
Stephen R. Coffee (Terba Buena Lodge #•OS)
Jeanett e E, Daley
Mary fitspat rick
Louia Gottlie b
Richard i, Irvine
Willia• i, McKinle y (San Pedro Lodge /332}
Gordo n i. O'Neil l (Lakesh ore Lodge /551)
Willia• N, Pedder (Temple City Lodge /612)
David Scott Quintin (San Gabrie l Lodge /546)
Cliffor d W, Richter (La• Pal•a• Lodge /36 6 )
Bertha Sherw ood (Southe rn Califor nia Lodge #278
Virgi l Kenneth Shiaer
Chril A. Si•oa
Albert J, Strei (Pr••id io Lodge /3 5 4)
Orville C . Sweeney
Agnes Van Waarde nburc

$

400,00
30,000. 00
1,070,0 0
3,128,6 7
6,925,2 6
5,113,2 3
2,585,8 6
797.80
100.00
100,00
500.00
500,00
548.82
1,022.3 8
l,000 . 0 0
37,978, 02
2,225, 0 0
2,522 , 60
10,144, 13

Molino Lo dge #150
Aerojet . Genera l Corp. E•p.
H, E. Ni c hols
llay111o nd J, Jlelt
No.Holl ywood Chap,Da Kolay
Katt M, Codon
Nova Die s Chapter ,O.B.S .
Chester Dunn
Canoga Part -United ielief
Jos e ph Eber
Pa c ifi c Mercury Electro nic•
Kr•, Erie W, Bataan
Al Paliok aitis
Kenneth A. Frederi ck
J, L, Paulson
Genera l Teleph o ne Co,
Radi o-Telev iai on-iaco rding,
Howard" N, Gilaore Foundat ion
Televis i o n Chariti ea,Ine.
Heg gblada- Margule aa
iedvood Chap,-D eMolay
Ionic Foundat ion
ll or man Rose
Andrew F, Johnson
San Diego Chap . /61,R,A .M,
Pauline Locke
San Die go Coa•and ery /25,K.T .
Masoni c ClubsSan Marino Foundat ion, I nc,
L,A, Downtow n Hi-Twel ve Club
Santa Barbara Co,-In-G roup
Ha•ilt o n F ield Chap.#2 77
11 . c, Ski 11 ing
Natl .Sojo urner•, Inc,
Space Tech.L aborato r i es
Ha•ilto n Hi-Twe lve Club
Triangl e .loyal Arch Aux,
Hydrau lic Reae a rc h Sq.Club
U,5. Rubber Co, -Employ ees
Laisure World Ma s onic Club
W, J, Voit lubber Corp ,
L , A, Foriol Sq,& Colllpass Club
Leo J, 'H ahl
Shr i ne Club of Clen d al•
/219
Univer aity Sq.Club , 358th Diat, Mason ic Dis t rict
Masonic Diatri ct # 594 by
Merced Tork lite Bodi e a
•cbante ra• Al Kalaika Teap .
Mobil Oil Co , - .••ploy •••
llEKOi IALS

Clark L, Abbott
Frank H, Abbott, Jr.
Erne1t C, Adkina
Frederi ck Ahrens
Lyle Ahrens
Willie A, Aldridg e
Carl 11, Alexand er
£ail Allaf
Roaa belle Allen

W, B, Allen
c. D, A•as
Helen Ande raan
Elaina Andarso n
Sher•an D, Andr•••
Samue 1 W, Auaan
Iii llia• E , Ausman
ll i lliaa 0, Ba iley
Rufus Bailey

Georgan na Balch.
Ru by Balling er
Carlo• £. Bal&ar lni
El•in T, Ban&haf
Benjami n i , Bare
Claude C, Bartley
Stan Barr
llalter L, Barru•
Edwin J, Barahe ll

148

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

KEMOl!.IALS (Continued)

MEMORIALS (Continued)
George H. Bau•gardn•r
DeLll••e P. neck
Ethel I, Beck•an
Brnest W. Reera
Ellaworth C, Beeaon
Willia• A. Behrens
.Richard o. Bell
Anthony Delluo•ini
Howard Bennett
Lester E. Bennett
Mrs. F. Johnson's Father
Lee Ann Berkline
Bertha Sell•an Basser
Charles 0 . Beynon
iobert V. Binkley
J, Byron Blois
Irving Albin Blo•
George Boeck
Frederick F. Boes
L. S. Bohannan

John T. Bond
Frank E. Bonner
John E. Bonwell
Frank v. Borgilt,Jr.
Hra. Arthur Boss
Christopher B, Bout on
ieginald H. Bov•an
Hrs. Hildred A. Boyer
John Braech
Daniel J, Breelauer
Hrs, Linda V. Brice
David llrodie
iusaell Brook•an
Hiss Vicky Brooks
Villi&• D. Brooks
Hrs . Florence E, Drown
Joseph A. Brown
John Jaaes Brown
lf i lla rd i:. Brown
Frank T. Buchanan
ioy N, Buell
Clyde £. Bundy
Grace Innea Burger
in)' L, Surgk
Iraa Burlinga••
Vi ctor It, Burrh
Kary A, Burrowe
Albert Levie Bureon
Walter Willis Burson
John P. Surt
John Bush
Beuie Caia
Charle• Edw~rd Ca•eron
Walter G, Ca•eron
frank i. Caapana
J. Henry Ca:ape
Hrs, Cedric Canter
Guy E. Carleton
ltarl s. Carlson
D. E. Caraichael
Charles lf. Carr
Mr•. Lottie Carter
Lloyd Vivian Casaday
Dale 0. Caa .. 11
Walter i. Caatro

Edward A. Ceeeh•ttini
Henry I. Chaia
Henry Chaloner
Hrs. Aay K. Chapin
Mrs. Russell K. Chap•an
Victor R. H8y Chapaan
Louh Chappel
Basi 1 Cha pr~ lis
Harry Char u•
11.obert R, Chase
Lest•r B. Chattert on
Archie A, Cheda
H•rbert A. Clftttenburc
Earl R., Clayton
Marion Cleaena
Ercel J, Clemin•on
Willia• S, Cleves
iay•ond Cobb
Steve Cocking
Willia• E, Cole
ialph ll. Collins
W. A. Condie
Pierre H, Condit
Erneat D, Cook
Ern••t F. Coop
Pa1ll Coyle
Orville Crafts
Alfred T, Crn•
Juae V. Cr11•
Hrs. Vida R. Cran•

Mrs. Nellie H. Crit••
Mrs. Zoe c. Crocker
Lewis H, Croavell
Kovard I, Crosby
George w. Crouch
Krs, ioy V. Crowell
Willia• J, Crowner
Cassiu1 E, Culberson
Jaaes D. Culbertson
John Rayaond Cul l ens
Norris C, Cummings
Lazo Curilich
Will Glenn Curry
Martha C. Cuohing
John A. Dahlaan
Hr1. Isabell e Dani
Mrs. Ida Davis
Orville Davis
Horac e W. Day
Bee•i• Decker
Laury D, D•lleabach
Charles Dick•y
Charles I, Di••••
Paul Ding11an
Jaaes G, Dixon
Hans Doller
Leslie A, Donahey
Harold H. Doraan
John F, Douger1
Alton Davi• Downey
Hra, Loaeta Dryden
Leo A. Duncan
John Dunn
Mre. Mabel Dunn
iudolph E. Eckland

119

Mrs. E••a Edvarda
Joseph 0, Edy
Rudolph s. Egert
Hrs. Gertrude Eichaan
Lawrence Ellis
Francis i, &lsey
Roy S. Enloe
Eli•abeth EDsor
Edvard Eriksen
Charle 1 Ert o la
iobert H. J;achen
Kr•. John E•trada
Charles J . Evans
Krs. Susie c. Evinc
Carl E, Fa•na c ht
John Feith
w. P, Fergu11on
v. C, Finch
Williaa L, Fink
Elbert f. Fisch
Charles D, Fisher
George E, Fisher
Eraeat Flener
Alva I!. Flinn
Charles R. For bes,Jr,
iobert Forgie
Henry Forsberg
Kay V, fraae .
Lee J, French
Walter 8. Fr1•
Villiaa H, Fuhr
David J, Galen
Willia• J, Gardener
Willia• J, Garibaldi
Calloway Garnett
Jay C, Garren
Olen i. Garr•tt
lira. Theresa Geibel
Cha•. L, Gil11ore
John C. Glad•tone
Sebast i an S, Gnad
Mrs. Ann Golda•ith
Irving Gotthaia
Frank i . Gould
John D. Gould
Angus Grahaa
&thel M, Grant
George H. Grant
Hrs •. Edna Green
Seyaour H. Green
Gilbert E. Greenber1
v •• G, Greenfield
Clarence Grii;gs
J••• G, Griaaley
Fred A. Griswold
Schuyler V, Gros
John W, Gunn, Jr,
George T, Hadler
Herb Halversen
Warren C, Ha•ilton
Victor N, Hansen
Marion C, Hanaon
Hovard C. Rarp•r
Ro1 C. Ra.rrigaa
Kra,Xeitb Rarriocto•

John r·. ICe nnedy
Alic• Harris
Clyde Leslie Kerr
Po• )(night Hastings
ioyle Elliott King
Gnatave A. Haussler
John Kies
Clyde 11. Hebard
Bubert Knight
J o hn F . Heis•an
Clyde J. Kraaer
ldvard G. Henderson
Krs, Pearl Krauae
Guitar A, Hendrickson
Mrs. Irene Kret1
Pa ul C, Hennel
Hilda Kruaai•
rrancea Peckhaa Henning
Richard H. Laere•ans
Paul Henricksen
Jeanette Langworthy
aoico• El•er Henry
C, Elli• Lark ins
Jack Herold
Robert A. Lars on
Alt• Heron
Kr s . Kas i e Lavs on
Tho•as F, He th
Leonard K. Layton,Sr.
Archi• i. Hewitt
Ellis on 0, Leake
WilliU F. Hill
Wells Emaet Lebold
o1 car w. Hilton
Saa Leddel
Lou W, Hinda
i.oy H. Lenthall
Le• 'H inson, Jr.
Carl Lewellen
Clair• Hirsch
Harry M. Levis
Paul Hively
Louie K. Lichtenetein
Mra . Fre da Hodge
Arthur L. Lindh
Willia• H. Hoegee
Leonard C, Link
lira. Blanch• Hoffman
Frederick Lipp•an
Donald E, Hoffaan
Joseph Hoss Little
1. G. Holco•b
Willia• v. Holli ngbery,Jr. Arch F. Lockett
Louis H. Longley
ll••r Honsal
Joseph Losa•
Richard Horn
Henry Love
tuaaell E . Horton (Mrs.)
Mrs, Blanche Lover
Rarry S, Houghton
Willia• J, Luckok
Adah G, Houae
Otto F. Ludewig
Brice H, Howard
August B. Lueger
Odia E, How•
Mrs , Buelah l.utticken
11 . B. Huey
Willia• P. Ma ghetti
Jobn A, Hughe a
Carl Brneat Mai e r
Ma1nard H. Hugh••
Willia• D, Mainland
W, B. Hugbea
Willia• H. Kaiser
I, B. Rughaton
Harold E, Manyan
CheaUr Hunt
Willia• H, Haple
Fred H. flunter
Nancy Ann Harchut
Charle• L. Huyck
David Hark
larl R. Ingersoll
Fred Grant Markle
J1111 Inaan
Harold S, Maries
A, II, Jaae 1
Neva Marlett
IUlia• F. Jebe
Kelvin H. Marquardt
Cora G. Jenkins
Patrick J, Marron
Tboaaa P, Jenkinaon
Ja••• G. Hartin
'Leland c, · Jennin11
Loi• Glaasey Hartin
J e aa C, Jensen
iobert C. Hartin
I . Ja.J . Jenaen
Alfred i. Mastera
l a rion Everett Johna
A. A. L. Mathews
Frank W, Johnaoa
Androw Mathisen
Otear F. John1on
Charles A. May
leborab L, Johoatoo
Thoaas H. Kay
rred L1le Johnaton
Durk Meadows
Willia•
l•cinald J. Jon••
Toay Mecca
llr1 • .Char l e 1 · Jon tra
Lori Dore Hello
Albert E. Jur•
Willia• D, Mette
rrad Iats
Hr•. Ana& Michalec
ltbel Iearl
Burt on £. Millar
la. Jaaea ICeay
Charle• Hiller
l e aaetb R. Keefer
Frank E. Miller
Jraaeia T . Xee1ling, Sr,
Harry E. Milter
1r e d S. ICennedy, Sr,

Earl Hilton
Birt Miu
Wylie F, Moffett
Frederick Kogck, Jr,
Arthur L. D,Kontgomory
Richard o. Kontriaf
Laurel K, Hoo re
Laurene• L. Moore
Robert L. Koor•
Ray Albert Hor••
Ralph E. Horgan
Vivian A. Korl•Y
Art hur H. Horton
George L, Morton
Tapp Srooka Horton
Gaorge II., Hosle
Clyde Leroy Mowder
Willia• Mueller
Jack Huir
Willia• H, Muaaert
Glen 11. Kunlcelt
Blanch• Kurr•y
Charles Murr,.
Hardy Hyer•
Marion Bruc e Hyers
Gen.Douglas MacArthur
David HacCulloch, Sr,
John Ma cDonald
Robert KacNe ur
E, J, McClanahan
El••r I, HeCoooell
Chaa,H, HcCourtney
John H, KcCourtoey
Donald H, McDole
Willia• J , McDon ough
John s. McGrath
Edwin V, Kcloerney
Willia• A. HcKe nna
Gaylord V. HcKon:ie
Hrs.Jennie E. HcLachlan
Louil A. McLaughlin
Hrs. Miooie HcNulty
Willia• B. Nailor
Harry Neff
Arthur J, Neilsen
Ne i1 Ne ttlesh i p
Cletu• C. Nevill•
Harold K, Nevk o•
V. s. Newt on
Robert W. Nicol
Gary Nielson
Darrel E. Nielson
Hra. Jesaie Nitti
Geo, Nonnaaacher
Gilbert H, Null
Horton Nyda
iufua Ogilvie
Capt.A . S, Oko
George A. Oaner
J. lbert Ottoson
Neil H. Ousley
J,eRoy A. Page
Georg• Pal••
Haig Paapeyan
J, T1ler Parker,Jr.

] 50

MEMORIALS (Continued)
Nellie E. Parker
Walter A, Parker
Daniel Partridge
Julia Pasini
George J. Pastre
Hrs, Mildred c. Peare•
io•• P•aroon
Otto F. Perschke
Carl 0, Peterson
Alaa B. Pflueger
Clarence A. Phillip•
Anderson P. Phipps
John Pihl
Donald A. Piper
Charle• H. Pitts
Danny L. Ploskunak
S • C. Po•• roy
Algerine Porter
Willia• G. Porter
George Pith
Ira Power Pratt, Jr.
Edward C. Prentiss
Mrs. Margaret Price
Hugh Price
Henry H. Proseus
Carl Ritter Purtill
ialph D . Putsar
Louis A. Quigley
Scott Quintin
George F . iasMus se n
Ernest Raymond
Addie ieed
Fred o. ieeder
John A. Reiners
Mrs. Rowland B.Reinig
Harold L. Retan
Ralph Ward Reubendale
Fredrick William Reuss
Arthur F. iice
Forrest A. Rice
Kare Rice, Sr.
Charles Richards on
James V, Richardson
Henry s. Ric ha rd•
Louis E. Richard son
Mr•. Karie Richter
Walter L. Rickett
Mra. Clara E. Rietzke
Leslie Ripple
Daniel B. Ritter
Donald Al• in Robb
H. Walter Robbin s
John E. Roberts
Lois Rober ts
Jack Robinson
John Charles Robin•on
Alfred Gray Rodda
Robert Roos
Robert Wa. Rose, Jr.
Konya Roaencrants
Mrs.Joan 8, Roumiguiere
Mrs. Clara C. Rushton
~thel K. Russell
Robert K. Russell
Marshall J. Rutherford
James Andrew Ryan
Albert H, Saak
Louis A. Sackett

William Safe
Hartin E. Salmi
Hrs . Naomi Saauel
Raymond Sargent
Walter H, Sawyer
Edvard Gage Saxe
Charles D. Scarper
Harry H. Schalwitz
Leo f. S chl es inger
Carl H. Schna~ke
George E. Sc hnelder
Mrs. Hertha Schnetz
Walter H, Schroeder
Wilbur J, Scott
Ragnar Olsson Seffer
Ernest Seidcheck
ll.. L. Semans
Evelyn Ethel Servis
Geo rge Setterlund
Douglass F. Sharpe
Parvin E. Shaw
Edward L. Sheaffer
Sarah E. Shepherd
Hrs. Ethel Shepka
Webster K. Sheets
Glenn L, Shumway
Frederick w. Siegmund
He nry F. Si•aaen
Elmer E. Simnons
Hrs, w. D. Singleton
Williaa K. Sites
Hra. Alice Skillaan
Alox o. Smith
Mr s. Frankie Saith
Jaaes A. S10ith
Joseph L, Smith
Lucia Pearl Smith
Robert H. Smi th
Ira Fontaine Smith
Albert B. Snyder
Augusta H. Snyder
Lee Roy Snyder
Ed Sora cco
Emil J. Spiering
Benjamin F. Spriggs
Mrs. E. L. Hu ck ins
Clair •. S tanfield
B. c. Stafford
Hr s . Edna Stair
Peter Star1aan
Rene S tein er
Fre d O. Stephenson
Mary Stevenson
William J. Stewart
George T, Stine
Raymond L. Stroub•
Sidney R. Sugarman
Harry D. Sullivan
Norftan R. S utherland
S. W. Swanson
Mrs. Walter Swanson
Phillip David Swing
J o hn o. Swor
George R. Tanner
David Kann Taylor
Merle L. Taylor
Perrie Thal
Charles E. Thomas

151

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE

Thornt on c. Thorpe
John Tilbury
Franklin S . Todd
Thoaas G. Tolbert
Ellison Toapkins
Charles H. Tooker
Carol Ann To•••
' G. C. Totten
Kary Hobart Trac e
e1arence Trexler
Willia• L. Trimble
Carl H. Tropper
George Troup
Peter J. Tscharner
A. L . •Tod" Tucker
Ellis S. Turner
John Ullrich
Carl Underwood
Charles H. Urban
Fred Va c her
Edgar L. Vail
Alexander Valentine
Henry H. Van Dyck
Mrs. llillar Van Enger
Raymond Vidalia
John D. \'ietti
Floyd H. Vincent
Hrs. George Wagner
Ernest C. itahl
Charles II, !lake
John Pope Walker
Lo~ell L. Walker
Leonard A. Walton
Aaron Ward
William T. Ward
Chester H. Warlow
Arthur K. Warren
J. l le n S. Wat ts
Harry L. Heaver
George Alvin Weis
Herbert J, Welch
Henry K. Welch
Robert Welch
Earl Whitcomb
Hrs. Ann l!hite
Krs,Eugeno T. Whitten
Alice Wiley
Arthur E. Wilkens
Reginald Wilkins o n
Harry H. Willia•s
Hugh J. Williams
Mrs. Kabe l A . Williama
Willia• J. Willi aes
Albert E. Wilson
Guy Wils o n
Mrs. Helen llilaon
Jaees A. llilson
Larry Wilson
Levis A. Winston
0, J. Wohlgemuth
Ann ie Half.
Christian I. Wolfle y
Ida Wollang
Sterling c. Wood
Grover D. Worley
Robert K. Wright
William G. Young
Anton Zens
Mrs. Carrie K. Ziegler

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIO NS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND

•Denotes Honor Roll

No.

Lodgo

l9U
Membership

California .................. 422
Western Star ........... 226
Tehama ...................... 833
Benicia ...................... 234
Tuolumne ................. 288
Corinthian ................ 450
San Jose ................... 523
Yount ......................... 543
Nevada ······-·······-······· 172
Temple ...................... 254
16 Eureka ...................... 395
17 La Parfaite Union . 104
61
18 Mountain Shade......
19 San Joaquin ............. 789
20 Washi.~gton .............. 894
21 Hawauan ................... 395
22 Occidental ................. 590
23 Madison ·······-············ 319
24 Mariposa ................... 194
72
25 Georgetown ..............
26 El Dorado ................. 284
27 Tr inity ....................... 175
30 Golden Gate ............. 517
32 Gold Hill ................... 125
95
33 Ophir .........................
35 San Diego ................. 1000
37 Howard ...................... 266
38 Santa Cruz ..........•..... 534
40 Sacramento .............. 813
41 Martinez .................... 424
42 Los Angeles -············ 1064
43 Hiram ........................ 125
44 Mount Moriah ......... 311
45 Crescent ········-···-······· 220
51
46 Texas .........................
50 Forbestown .............. 144
51 Illinoistown .............. 79
55 Suisun. ....................... 308
56 Volcano···-········ ········· 119
57 Santa Rosa ·············- 658
58 Union ......................... 706
59 Gravel Range .......... 100
60 Plumas....................... 183
61 Live Oak................... 867
64 Natoma ...................... 382
65 Amador ···············-·····
92
68 Morning Star ............ 653
70 Enterprise ................. 368
79
76 Bear Mountain ........
78 Calaveras .................. 128
79 Humboldt ···-············· 513
I~
80 Ione ............................
81 Yolo ............................ 1
245
84 Vesper ........................

1
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14

1963

1963 Membership
Participation

1964

Contributions

o/o

Contribution•

$1,457.00*
468.25*
3,442.70*
731.51 *
650.oo•
940.00*
1,820.03*
1,208.50*
655.50*
543.29*
909.90*
290.50*
136.00*
1.62 1.00*
3,860.80*
1,500.00*
1,401.00*
780.50*
587.00*
15.00
1,067.50·
396.00*
1,427.51 *
264.50*
267.oo•
3,473.00*
560.00*
829.00
3,012.75*
1,081.96*
3,145.00*
370.70*
87 1.00*
440.50*
123.oo•
335.00*
149.00
998.25*
522.00*
2,364.06*
1,600.00*
239.25*
512.a1 •
2,275.00·
1,320.75•
345_22•
1,603.25•
804.00*
184.70*
326.00*
1,097.00*
343.50*
440.00*
290.50

33
41
57
59
50
31
41
53
75
36
44
27
100
30
48
47
31
51
46
7
45
40
51
39
48
46
40
27
73
49
34
58
33
42
63
46
42
53
76
34
48
48
76
26
60
48
36
33
38
54
43
64
56
21

$1,676.50*
693.00*
3,574.75*
858.06*
647.75*
912.00*
1,922.58*
1,509.50*
569.00*
514.50*
1,435.53*
194.50
245.50*
1,600.00*
4,241.50*
1,655.00*
1,374.50*
647.50*
633.88*
298.00*
1,228.00*
517.00*
1,590.97*
287.00*
271.00*
3,231.54*
568.50*
1,102.33*
3,579.05*
1,051.08*
3,417.65*
360.00*
703.50*
453.10*
50.00
609.00*
162.10*
928.00*
613.00*
1,613.70*
2,050.00*
215.85*
622.00*
2,014.70*
1,240.50*
202.00•
1,620.00*
1,005.50*
130.50
302.00*
1,351.00*
231.00*
350.80*
294.50

1964
Participation
Members %

187
44
132
58
528
63
158
68
133
46
113
25
231
44
295
54
103
60
89
35
207
52
35
34
119 100
226
29
526
59
204
52
186
32
138
43
101
52
29
40
141
50
81
46
279
54
61
49
47
49
459
46
140
53
164
31
533
66
203
49
357
34
72
58
87
28
57
30
15
29
101
70
38
48
135
44
90
76
217
33
378
54
40
40
138
75
200
23
205
54
40
43
242
37
155
42
18
23
64
50
254
50
38
39
59
51
40
16

152

No.

87
89
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
J 3G
139
140

141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187

PRO<:EEDINGS OP THE

Lodge

1964
Membet11hlp

Nava l ......................... 1147
Hose's Bar ................ 65
Nor th Star ................ 89
St. H elena ................. 131
H enr y Clay ..............
81
Hornitos .................... 105
Yosemite ................... 498
Clay ............................ 105
Oroville ..................... 388
Lexington ................. 645
Arcata ....................... 349
Pajaro ....................... 422
Chico ......................... 603
Summit .....................
65
Eden ........................... 440
Concord ..................... 376
Fidelity ..................... 568
Alamo ........................ 452
Sotoyomc .................. 238
Table Mountain ..... 362
Lafay ette .................. 227
Hermann .................. 167
Visalia ···-·················· 561
Nicolaus .................... 141
Woodbridge ............. 197
Sincerity ................... 97
Vacaville ................... 296
Valley ........................
94
Pacific ....................... . 524
Crockett .................... 443
Curtis .........................
95
Grafton ...................... I 07
Franklin .................... 147
Oriental..................... 292
Vitru vius ................... 133
Abell .......................... 362
Eel River .................. 263
Lassen ....................... 239
Molino ....................... 160
Woodland ................. 318
Keystone ...................
46
Harmony ...................
30
Excelsior ................... 385
Ala meda ................... 299
Redwood City .......... 658
Mission ···············-····· 571
Elk Grove ................. 142
Drytown ...................
76
Antioch ..................... 413
Phoenix ..................... 751
Mendocino ................ 113
Petaluma ............... ... 333
Russian River .......... 124
Arbuckle ................... 84
Clear Lake ................ 148
Sierra Valley .......... 31
Claiborne .................
81
Evening Star ............ 78
Keith .......................... 196

1963 M•mbenhlp
1963
Participation
1964
Contribution•
%
Contribution•

3,809.50•
129.00·
196.50•
44.2 .00•
297.50•
230.00•
1,007.00·
301.50•
866.72•
1,611.41•
1,086.25•
890.74•
1,628.50•
160.00•
1,093.08•
1,055.00·
1,915.50•
935.:?o•
673.oo•
711.25•
221.30
521.09•
1,865.78•
292.00·
601.00·
311.85·
605.50•
135.29
525.99
1,440.25•
104.50
226.00·
601.00·
1,454.75•
406.50•
672.50
8·16.oo•
487.oo•
229.75
687.oo•
10.00
74.oo•
1,193.50•
112.00•
2,055.50•
2,046.oo•
531.00·
229.oo•
696.00
1,856.80•
122.00
691.oo•
376.25•
166.oo•
230.00
105.50•
208.50*
187.oo•
438.50•

60
55
47
85
56
34
30
48
67
42
35
42
81
55
35
47
42
31
54
58
18
69
55
45
61
59
41
17
13
46
18
31
52
55
52
39
52
42
24
52
7
100
43
21
45
52
52
53
41
40
19
37
70
25
36
52
31
51
48

153

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

4,658.19•
201.00·
196.oo•
397.00·
366.50•
245.00·
1,179.oo•
346.50•
971.50•
1,926.99•
1,281.50•
921.50•
1,591.75•
214.50•
1,206.11 •
1,193.50•
2,048.10•
926.75•
111.50•
725.50•
343.67
520.09•
2.016.68•
306.20•
612.19•
305.55°
702.60•
69.00
1,246.oo•
1,588.75•
194.77•
219.50•
588.50•
1,195.oo•
466.oo•
736.10•
834.50°
482.02°
577.75°
690.40°
10.00
60.00•
1,032.50°
120.50•
2,292.99.
2,116.50•
535.50•
324.oo•
783.38
1,502.00°
69.00
691.50°
385.50°
214.20°
104.50
55.00
186.50°
154.25
406.50•

1964
Partltlpatloa
Membera <Jf.

672
67
60
82
52
45
182
59
277
422
109
189
257
41
172
202
251
155
131
192
54
114
321
58
118
47
122

59
100
67
63
64
43
37
56
71
65
31
45
43
63
39
54
44
34
55
53
24
68
57
41
60
48
41
9 10
140
27
226
51
46
48
22
21
79
54
149
51
78
59
136
38
121
46
103
43
88
55
140
44
2
4
30 100
139
36
88
29
372
57
333
58
76
54
49
64
162
39
210
28
12
11
133
40
83
67
36
43
26
18
9 29
23
28
35
45
98
50

1964

No.

188
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232

233
234
235

236
237
240

241

242

243

244

245
246
247

248
250
253
254
255

256

Lodge

Memberahip

Oakland ···················Northern Light .......
Marin ..........................
Santa Barbara .........
Ferndale···············-···
Mountain View .......
Buckeye ·······-···········
San Simeon ..............
Wilmington ..............
Hartley ......................
Truckee ......................
Silveyville ................
Pentalpha .................
Confidence ................
Salinas .......................
Olivet .........................
Stanislaus .................
Anaheim ....................
Rio Vista....................
King David's .............
Friendship .................
San Benito ...............
So. San Francisco ..
San Buenaventura .
Oak Grove ·······- ······Doric ···············-·········
Monterey ···-·············
Mosaic .......................
Speranza Italiana ....
Downey ·······-············
Inyo ............................
Roseville ·······-··········
Bakersfield ........:......
Brooklyn ...................
San Mateo ................
Athens.......................
Solano ..................... ..
North Butte ..............
Covelo ........................
Janesville .................
Calistoga ....................
Hope..·-·······················
Surprise Valley ......
Hills Ferry ................
Guadalupe ................
Colusa ........................
Santa Ana ................
Magnolia ···- ······-······
Eucalyptus ................
Alcatraz ···················Laurel ........................
Pomona ......................
Fresno........................
Alturas ......................
Adin ....................... ....
Landmark .................
Reading ....... .......... ....
Welcome ···············-··
Lodi o••-• • W•• O•••••••-••• • •• •

717
122
527
369
84
414
146

101

663
238
152
152
431
122
607
140
665
512
181
402
741
179
210
436
527
389
318
283
219
986
153
496
745
451
620
191
527
251
72

160
122
110
118

161
244
159
594
511
552
504
248
433
721
194
94
115
300
202
402

1963 Memberahlp
196'
1963
Participation
1984
P•rti<ipation
Contrihut.ion1
%
Contributions Member• %

2,060.50*
264.oo•
1,859.25·
1,021.74•
284.oo•
1,657.00·
544.38•
233.25•
2,433.04•
501.25
801.35•
338.60•
2,464.00·
334.00*
2,021.52.
337.52•
1,517.50•
1,044.70•
571.50*
1,011.79•
618.00
562.75*
558.oo•
1,612.00•
1,648.00·
1,014.00•
1,263.75•
651.00*
848.50*
4,539.99•
441.50*
1,218. 25°
1,697.50•
1,075.62*
2,168.00·
560.00•
1,135.84•
505.26•
10.00
342.20*
250.00•
247.50°
67.50
520.00*
825.45·
199.00
1,931.28•
2,031.50•
1,680.35*
1,081.50•
835.50•
919.54•
2,236.50*
418.12•
75.00
228.00·
1,200.24•
257.00
801.00•

35
47
48
63
83
56
83
45
44
24
66
45
44
78
65
55
35
27
100
68
17
53
53
45
43
37
78
45
48
53
56
38
29
29
53
44
26
65
5
46
50
65
10
63
51
23
40
67
49
34
46
43
47
100
19
90
57
29
31

2,581.60•
256.50•
1,749.25*
1,239.25.
252.00·
1,694.25•
489.00*
226.00•
2,319.60•
367.00
1,428.51 •
319.oo•
1,980.00*
368.50*
1,716.78•
420.02•
1,188.24
1,159.07°
489.oo•
1,275.13.
2,020.00•
549.00°
649.25•
1,436.79•
1,508.48*
848.50*
1,106.00·
627.00*
871.00*
5,120.82*
472.00°
1,345.77°
2,549.00°
1,192.50*
2.192.00°
659.25*
1,096.84•
515.50•
7.00
336.75•
248.oo•
336.00°

396
51
234
228
48
236
101
41
277
56
112
68
225
106
341
96
205
150
100
226
306
98
108
209
194
108
203
128
109
540
91
203
341
150
311
88
180
162
4
75
50
84

55
42
44
62
57
57
69
41
42
24
74
45
52
87
56
69
31
29
55
56
41
55
51
48
37
28
64
45
50
55
59
41
46
33
50
46
34
65
6
47
41
76

375.50•
827.38*
204.00
1,383.16•
2,036.00 *
1,679.78•
1,052.70*
944.00·
904.84•
1,898.50*
255.50

71
122
34
186
359
276
159
204
284
195

44
50
21
31
70
50
31
55
47
39
100

261.00·
1,583.10*
393.75
888.00*

100
225
65
130

87
75
32
32

136

151

No.

258
259
260
261
262
264
265
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322

Lodge

1964
Membership

Penrhyn -··--·······-······· 142
Evergreen .................. 711
King Solomon'sSeaport.................... 589
Tuscan ---------------------- 94
Lompoc ...................... 273
Hesperian ................. 423
Orland ....................... 164
Galt ............................. 87
Durant ....................... 383
Olive Branch ........... 304
Snow Mountain ....... 42
Pasadena ................... 499
Anchor ....................... 616
Arroyo ....................... 193
Oakdale ..................... 208
Selma ......................... 222
So. California ........... 407
Hanford ..................... 232
Madera ....................... 282
Mount Shasta .......... 161
Calayomi. .................... 70
South West ................ 574
San Miguel ·-·-··········-· 80
Paso Robles .............. 291
Winnedumah ·---------- 237
Maxwell ·····-·····-·-····-· 69
Elsinore ..................... 138
East Gate ·-···············-· 625
Santa Paula ------·····-- 415
Los Gatos .................. 416
Orange Grove .......... 369
Traver ········-··········--··· 144
Mt. Jackson .............. 120
Silver Gate ·---·-····---·- 1215
Dunsmuir .................. 251
Liberty·--·--····--·-····-·--·· 395
Redlands ···-·-··-·····--·-- 498
Ontario ....................... 523
Santa Lucia .............. 163
Porterville ----·········-· 507
Reedley ...................... 150
Azusa .......................... 339
341
Ashlar·--·······-··-··········
Santa Monica ___________ 368
Monrovia ··--·---·········- 340
Delano ....................... 249
Sisson ......................... 113
Los Banos-······-·------·· 155
Tehachapi ··--·---·-------- 185
Temescal ·-·········-·-····· 295
Norwalk .................... 480
Sanger ........................ 327
Fallbrook ·····---·--·---··- 171
Emanuel.. .................... 88
Hollenbeck ···········-··· 702
South Gate ............... 476
Alisal -················-······· 200
Alhambra ·-···--·------··· 638

155

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
196(
1963 Membership
1964
1963
Participation
PartkiP•tlon
Contributions
Contribution•
Members
%
%

205.50
2,501.14*

29
42

228.50
2,456.52*

48
281

753.50
79.00
726.00*
1,871.00*
430.00*
289.50*
836.50*
622.00*
24.00
1,730.86*
2,683.22*
467.32*
397.00
489.50*
2,288.80*
137.50
621.00*
388.50*
230.50*
1,127.00
135.25
883.00*
554.39*
140.00*
411.82*
2,439.68*
1,085.26*
915.00*
1,272.29*
300.00*
226.00
2,929.47*
604.00*
888.00*
2,264.25*
1,124.00*
277.50
705.50
476.00*
865.95*
850.43*
2,120.71 *
893.88*
1,812.50*
289.00*
309.50*
669.75*
803.50*
1,493.84*
537.00
325.00
148.00
3,447.70*
1,834.74*
365.50
2,464.07*

33
22
56
51
55
54
24
32
15
45
62
49
48
31
41
15
39
46
34
37
49
68
71
47
41
43
43
46
62
26
46
33
37
41
51
31
36
25
48
40
43
43
40
95
47
80
81
46
70
36
24
52
38
44
68
59

1,394.00*
102.00
870.25•
1,826.51 *
386.50*
294_50•
1,103.50
628.oo•
48.00
357.04
2,998.18*
530.11 *
504.00*
606.50*
3,064.33*
274.00
630.50*
251.00
96.00
1,155.00*
86.25
763.00*
520.77"'
141.95*
328.00*
2,626.72*
1,255.39*
970.00*
1,342.99*
298.03*
374.16*
3,208.47*
578.00*
1,209.00*
2,502.00*
1,101.00*
345.50*
735.50
267.00
838.54*
874.66*
2,041.25*
653.84
1,101.00*
263.50*
100.00
639.52*
602.67*
1,464.75*
668.00*
431.54*
186.00*
2,516.91 *
1,931.16*
500.50*
2,625.00*

261
19
142
224
74
45
141
91
12
13
415
99
105
106
212
54
112
64
25
227
25
183
153
37
54
302
211
225
216
43
76
492
103
202
277
143
57
129
39
110
155
164
81
162
50
38
167
104
300
154
56
55
243
217
168
405

34
40

44
20
52
53
45
52
37
30
29
3
67
51
50
48
52
23
40
40
36

40
31
63
65
54
39
48
51
54
59
30
63
41
41
51
56
27
35
25
26
32
45
46
24
65
44
25
90
35
63
47
33
63
35
46
84
63

fio.

L<>dg.,

19H
Membership

Whittier ····--············-· 794
Corona ....................... 433
Consuelo .................... 379
Needles -···-----··········- 333
Long Beach .............. 619
Redondo .................... 777
Vallee de France ..... 127
Kilauea ..................... 190
Pacific Grove ........... 310
San Pedro ................. 542
Alta ............................ 146
Covina ....................... 536
West Gate ................. 1195
Fruitvale ................... 748
Carquinez ................. 181
San Jacinto ............... 113
Fullerton ................... 406
Oxnard ...................... 432
San Fernando .......... 756
Starr King ................ 512
Brentwood ................ 157
Palo Alto ................... 781
McK inley .................. 487
San Bernardino ...... 994
Sequoia ·-···········-------· 922
Palestine ·············---··· 457
Sunset ........................ 289
Pinole ···············--··-··-- 173
Presidio ·--·-----·-·········- 402
Hollyw ood ···-··--------· 1216
Mill Valley ............... 445
Buena Park .............. 407
Golden State ··-·-······ 572
Loyalton .................... 88
San FranciscoVictory ·····-··---······- 441
361 Fort Bragg ------···--···· 157
362 Charity······-------·······-· 187
363 Berkeley .................... 572
365 Willits ........................ 158
366 Las Palmas -········--···· 1075
367 South Pasadena ....... 553
368 Unity .......................... 566
369 Ocean Park ·······-·····- 486
370 Amity-Seal Rock ...... 532
371 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ............... 695
372 Gardena -·-······-··-----···· 536
373 West Los Angeles ..... 488
374 Jewel ····----··· .. ···-···-·--·· 193
375 Richmond .................. 420
376 Francis Drake .......... 452
377 Artesia -·--·········-------·-· 245
378 Mizpah ·················---··- 353
379 Fillmore ------·---·-····· .. - 233
380 Huntington Beach.... 355
381 Oceanside .................. 523
383 Orosi ----··-······-·-·--.. ····· 561
382 Highland Park ........ 147

323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360

196S Membership
196(
Particivation
196 3
Contributions
Contribution•
%

1964
Part icipation
M.,mbera %

1,748.17*
1,369.10*
1,231.90*
2,277.50*
3,195.00*
2,332.82*
402.00*
588.00*
1,157.75*
1,213.50*
426.00*
1,526.95*
3,137.79*
2,072.50*
549.50*
257.oo•
1,254.75*
711.88
1,735.14*
1,128.00*
390.50*
2,335.50*
1,274.25*
2,584.57*
3,002.00*
1,473.36*
1,116.40 *
414.00 *
1,263.00*
4,534.30*
1,003.00*
794.41 *
1,829.66*
26.00

27
48
64
100
59
39
73
53
52
33
100
47
37
55
52
43
36
22
59
42
46
54
36
43
41
51
55
45
41
41
31
33
38
11

1,756.55*
1,573.73*
1,657.87*
1,314.00*
2,506.29*
2,690.24*
425.00*
515.00*
1,037.27*
1,210.03*
481.00*
1,970.02*
3,786.18•
2,047.00*
560.50*
239.00*
1,310.84*
1,006.63*
2,055.19*
1,190.00*
431.91.
2,547.19*
1,321.71 *
2,574.00*
2,786.50*
1,418.49*
1,251.69*
364.00*
1,073.00*
5,344.93*
1,450.00 *
1,441.96*
2,006.05*
173.20

222
237
187
165
272
320
94
104
158
192
101
271
530
389
80
54
158
127
383
228
92
434
201
330
362
223
167
72
108
652
200
172
265
29

28
55
49
50
44
41
74
55
51
35
69
51
44
52
44
48
39
30
51
46
59
56
41
33
39
49
58
42
27
54
45
42
46
33

1,158.00·
131.50
504.50*
717.00
208.50
2,294.17*
1,840.54*
2,782.01 *
1,467.33*
1,797.47*

46
22
47
15
15
33
45
69
36
43

950.50*
471.00*
415.00*
931.95
128.00
2,535.53*
2,139.26*
2,531.60*
1,872. 40 *
1,832.47*

220
157
68
122
20
415
247
375
214
197

50
100
37
21
13
39
45
66
44
37

1,391.75*
2,135.26*
2,222.55*
464.50*
1,369.75*
1,273.97*
705.40*
2,492.30*
1,027.50*
760.51 *
1,788.01*
1,412.73*
488.00*

35
51
45
44
55
37
54
67
65
44
55
36
52

1,789.03*
2,241.25*
2,284.00 *
604.50*
1,287.50*
1,398.00*
750.41 *
2,030.58*
942.50*
1,007.19*
1,760.53*
1,617.25*
498.50*

312
286
218
111
237
211
127
174
144
163
316
228
112

45
53
46
58
56
47
52
49
62
46
60
41
76

156

No.

384
385
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447

Lodge

1964
Memherohip

El Centro ................... 484
Dinuba ....................... 286
Coalinga .................... 367
Parnassus .................. 660
Palos Verdes ............ 690
Imperial .................... 131
East Belt .................... 120
West Lake ·-------··-····· 674
Balder ........................ 470
University ..................... 478
Turlock ...................... 419
Apollo ......................... 437
Rising Light ............. 943
Fraternity ................. 413
Burlingame ............... 643
Bay View ................... 647
Brawley ..................... 239
Yerba Buena ........... 851
Glendora·---··--··-········ 281
Moneta ...................... 533
Burbank .................... 860
La Mesa .................... 650
Sierra Madre ............ 200
Honolulu ................... 413
Charter Rock ........... 246
Perris ......................... 143
Calexico .................... 135
Arlington .................. 257
Silver Trowel .......... 416
Lindsay ..................... 203
Clovis ......................... 575
Elysian ...................... 394
Upland ...................... 276
Kerman ..................... 147
Inglewood ................. 752
Eagle Rock ................ 493
York ·---··--········---------· 333
Exeter ........................ 237
Holtville .................... 154
Midway ·········----------· 444
Chino Valley ............ 254
San Dimas ................ 181
Pittsburgh ---------------· 361
McCloud
········---------· 100
Alpha ______________________._ 498
Hammonton .............. 105
Maricopa .................. 193
Fairmount ................ 395
Claremont ................... 211
Lancaster .................. 588
Tyrian ........................ 235
339
Standard
387
Coronado
Blackmer :::::::::::::::::: 1144
Schofield .................... 310
Carpinteria -------------· 154
Wilshire --·--·----·---·---·· 456
La Puente ................ 266
Torrance .................... 607

1963 Member.hip
1964
1963
Participation
1964
P artlcipatlon
Contrihqtion•
Contributiono Members %
%

1,174.54•
639.50•
1,175.24•
1,607.25*
1,786.62*
456.oo•
328.00*
2,137.02*
1,600.50*
1,758.97•
1,279.00*
1,356.oo•
2,125.78•
1,274.oo•
1,778.50*
626.71
857.50*
2,655.50*
391.18
1,664.12•
1,759.09*
1,521.33*
611.08*
1,142.75*
582.00*
137.26
450.45•
1,015.50*
958.54*
425.00*
2,075.50*
1,215.oo•
729.24*
404.50*
2,815.83*
1,773.21 *
625.56
884. :>0•
608.15*
1,000.56*
493.95*
576.41 *
711.76*
308.oo•
1,252.52*
272.50•
481.36*
1,250.31 •
934.26*
2,500.31 *
60.00
733.83•
921.75•
2,901.09*
529_50•
463.oo•
2,502.88•
742.29*
1,268.45*

157

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

27
40
43
39
31
71
52
35
43
38
57
47
36
40
23
15
55
30
32
47
40
41
42
47
28
25
48
46
27
33
50
36
46
64
45
58
31
34
51
43
34
59
35
55
38
55
33
47
71
64
6
78
34
37
42
65
53
35
28

1726.50•
742.00*
1,134.39•
1,534.00*
1,655.69*
494.00*
394.45*
1,704.18*
1,291.00*
2,165.53·
1,281.59•
1,175.60*
2,348.85*
1,365.95*
2,501.00*
1,388.20*
939.71*
2,818.56*
458.39
1,747.85*
1,938.16*
1,776.25*
610.71 *
1,239.00*
795.50*
198.26
535.oo•
1,061.68*
1,019.69*
409.50*
2,197.71 •
1,207.80*
571.47•
459.63*
2,622.63*
2,719.84*
687.90*
566.50*
496.30*
933.86*
551.52*
614.63*
539.00
406.50*
1,158.35*
267.67*
595.89*
1,174.51 •
944.17*
2,672.40*
33.98
799.50•
1,205_57•
3,439.16•
633.oo•
564.00*
2,697.12*
474.12
1,840.23*

193
143
153
252
213
86
76
169
178
173
242
193
583
183
278
229
151
269
91
235
392
294
93
181
89
49
114
129
112
65
324
173
111
85
299
271
102
83
84
189
97
97
114
75
158
57
99
184
122
383
4
292
150
525
117
109
266
68
230

40
50

42
38
31
66
63
25
38
36
58
44
62
44
43
35
63
32
32
44
46
45
47
44
36
34
84
50
27
32
56
44
40
58
40
55
31
35
56
43
83
54
32
75
32
54
51
47
58
65
2
86
39
46
38
71
58
26
38

No.

Lodge

196•
Membership

448 Mount Diablo .......... 477
449 Park -------········-------···· 396
450 Van Nuys .................. 1162
716
451 Montebello
452 San Pasqual .............. 560
454 Crocker ----··--·····--····· 587
455 Golden West ............ 519
457 Ramona --------·----------· 540
458 Henry S. Orme ........ 575
459 Riverbank ---------------· 146
460 Mount Oso ................ 341
461 Argonaut --------------·-·· 347
462 Paul Revere ............ 574
463 Morgan Hill .............. 156
464 Alta Vista ................ 233
465 Center ........................ 527
466 Libertas ----······· ···-····· 720
467 Culver City .............. 433
468 Rockridge ............... .... 406
469 Yorba Linda ............ 186
470 Lincoln ...................... 344
471 Delta .......................... 496
472 Maui __________................. 193
473 Blythe ........................ 168
475 America -···-·······------·· 415
476 Coachella .................. 272
477 Temblor ----······--········ 137
478 Thousand Oaks ........ 477
479 Golden Rule ............ 709
480 Fellowship ................ 282
481 Mt. Davidson ............ 356
482 Clarence F . Smith .... 316
483 Bell --·----·-····-··············· 806
484 Albert Pike .............. 230
485 Chowchilla ................ 166
486 Caledonia .................. 554
487 Vallejo ••••••••••••••••••o•u 389
488 Patterson ................... 172
489 East Bay .................... 299
490 Corcoran .................... 142
491 Woodstock ................ 417
492 Garvanza .................. 316
493 Atascadero ................ 149
494 Acorn ----····· ..········------ 637
495 Lebanon .................... 412
497 Fremont .................... 524
498 Stockton .................... 191
499 Capital City .............. 645
500 Roosevelt .................. 198
501 Westwood ----------··---· 254
502 Harbor ··········------------ 569
503 Point .......................... 339
504 Seaside ...................... 544
505 Silver Cord .............. 603
506 Mount Olive ............... 915
507 El SeglUldO .............. 504
508 Joppa -----------------·-···-· 100
509 Benjamin Franklin .. 305
510 Cupertino .................. 249

1963 Member.hip
1963
Participation
1964
Contribution•
Contribution•
%

2,257.06•
913.oo•
5,150.83*
2,326.42•
2,439.40°
1,573.50*
2,775.50*
1,885.03*
2,128.69*
210.00
500.50
782.50•
2,084.75•
403.88*
1,091.50*
1,170. 79•
2,159.84*
1,8 19.15*
949.00*
423.54*
1,234.00*
1,277.oo•
491.00*
1,602.93*
980.51 *
532.92*
1,169.13•
1,889.00*
723.50*
1,301.50*
1,015.69*
3,324.30*
850.44*
319.50
1,726.05•
812.00•
237.00
660.00*
343.oo•
944.95*
1,722.77*
399.00*
1,348.75*
864.00*
1,589.50*
340.50
1,789.50*
246.50
616.50*
1,942.51 *
1,043.00*
1,748.41 *
2,115.55•
3,236.26*
1,584.29•
990.64*
505.25*

56
39
55
41
55
48
46
51
38
23
27
46
49
55
45
42
32
37
35
38
58
35
59
0
51
61
47
36
49
41
61
47
51
45
39
67
30
29
52
96
42
48
44
38
48
48
33
52
24
54
43
40
47
52
41
46
0
31
42

196•
Participation
Members %

2,150.50•
841.00·
6,027.96•
2,514.88*
2,639.26•
1,671.00·
3,317.93•
1,785.55•
1,706.65·
110.50
394.68
699.37•
2,289.00°
145.50
1,095.50•
1,155.26*
1,505.53*
2,471.11 *
839.25•
570.80*
1,319.50*
1,286.50*
439.00
255.50
1,930.72•
1,102.29*
515.02*
1,255.29*
2,380.36*
855.50*
1,503.50*
1,352.02*
3,361.28*
658.86•
362.50•
1,642.54*
989.oo•
406.50*
630.00*

278
149
729
332
323
285
263
323
246
24
67
145
320
40
115
213
210
218
140
93
212
168
107
39
233
168
64
183
392
155
204
175
399
94
72
332
200
75
64

58
38
63
46
58
49
51
60
43
16
20
42
56
26
49
40
29
50
35
50
62
34
55
23
56
62
47
38
55
55
57
55
50
41
43
60
51
44
21

908.95*
1,539.65*
351.00*
1,156.15
694.50
1,618.23*
522.00•
1,729.50*
437.50*
599.58*
1,863.75*
1,065.75*
2,338.32*
2,115.51 *
3,280.68*
1,567.73•
547.00*
911.06*
327.00

150
170
60
205
168
276
84
327
72
14.2
219
155
272
304
354
281
96
94
44

36
54
40
32
41
53
44
51
36
56
38
46
50
50
39
56
96
31
18

158

PROC EEDINGS O P THE
JtU lllemberohlp
198'
Participation
19U
Mtmbenhip Contributlona
Ccmtrlbutlon1
%
ltH

No.

511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
551
552
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572

Lodce

Sunnyvale ------·-··-····· 480
P alms -----··················· 494
Cahuenga --···-············ 544
Argonne -··················· 325
Ver mont Square ...... 440
Taft ............................ 3 11
Mount Vernon ........ 194
La Jolla .................... 339
Euclid ·············-········· 368
Ionic .......................... 1207
P iedmont .................. 241
Sunrise ...................... 274
Bellflower ······-········· 686
Catalina Island ........ 133
George Washington 403
Bay City -----············· 417
Covenant .................. 241
Beverly Hills ............ 547
Loyalty ·····-··············· 700
Sun Garden .............. 540
Alexandria ---···-······-·· 185
Smyrna·················-··· 212
Azure ........................ 400
Forest Hill --·--······-···· 197
Alexander Hamilton 297
Utopia -···---------··········· 610
Ascot ··-··········-············ 335
Belvedere ···-····--········ 198
Queen Beach ···-··--··· 188
H enry M. Stephens.. 307
North Hollywood .... 1030
Signal ........................ 545
Glendale --·····-···--······· 805
Ver itas-Jonathan...... 328
San Gabriel .............. 594
Arcadia ·--·-··-··-··········· 642
Triangle .................... 332
Jus tice ----··-·····--···---·· 372
L akeshore ................ 265
Semper Virens ...... 344
Educator .................. 387
White Pine ................ 102
Fairfax ·--······---········· 487
Hermosa .................... 426
Point Firmin............ 344
Craftsmen ................ 360
Plymouth ·-··--···--······· 392
East San Diego ........ 896
Pyramid .................... 319
South Park .............. 394
Foothill .................... 1000
Wes t Adams ............ 325
James A. Garfield.... 236
Searchlight ··-··········· 433
Park Boulevard ...... 416
Chateau Thierry ...... 356
Military Service ··-··· 308
Francis K. Shattuck 210
James Madison ........ 345

399.00
1,101.14•
3,289.00*
812.00•
1,396.60*
1,121.00•
454.50•
689.oo•
1,244.65*
2,408.oo•
1,183.50*
741.29*
1,789.10*
408.73*
1,054.50•
1,212.00•
1,001.00·
1,693.03•
2,044.09*
1,620.61*
569.75•
330.00
1,062.65•
506.00·
758.40•
2,080.71 •
1,425.58•
512.15•
809.04•
622.25*
4,414.97•
1,755.51 •
2,758.48*
906.75•
2,255.01 •
2,982.31 *
1,030.41 •
906.06•
646.00*
838.00*
795.75•
200.00•
1,146.50*
1,008.40*
2,312.42*
839.45*
919.oo•
2,066.50*
751.70•
1,273.90*
2,129.oo•
700.59*
1,692.79*
996.79•
908.00*
825.75•
632.00•
461.00*
781.29*

18
47
92
29
41
64
42
31
34
34
52
39
26
74
43
46
64
41
56
41
100
21
46
37
35
42
48
26
57
20
53
42
91
46
49
58
78
41
48
50
40
57
41
26
100
35
33
46
33
42
46
16
52
35
37
39
26
52
26

159

GRA ND LODGE O F CALIFO RN IA

704.50
1,544.32•
3,110.40•
562.00
1,212.03•
1,141.93•
420.00*
423.25
1,012.07*
2,724.75•
850.50*
892.29*
2,130.45•
330.67*
1,127.50•
1,255.17•
1,023.12•
1,937.42•
3,581.oo•
1,546.79•
462.oo•
501.90*
1,829.53•
232.00
1,051.24*
1,534.36•
1,219.19•
437.47•
773.54*
766.50*
4,931.77•
2,091.26*
3,302.44*
1,014.25•
2,599.39•
2,732.42*
1,395.53•
1,004.98*
667.50*
971.00*
786.oo•
204.oo•
1,087.52•
813.71
1,405.75•
1,068.87*
995.68•
2,043.50*
849.18•
1,227.73*
2,174.50•
994_57•
1,375.14•
1,099.17*
1,265.75*
901.00*
719.50*
580.25*
1,070.19*

uu
Participation
Memben %

128
345
460
79
156
224
80
71
130
562
103
123
209
76
210
417
127
264
343
217
80
63
266
58
154
214
121
71
86
78
628
283
701
196
339
340
242
162
128
183
154
62
212
100
214
159
146
436
115
160
463
81
111

144

196
154
114
140
128

27
70
85
24
35
72
41
21
35
47
43
45
30
57
52
100
53
48
49
40
43
30
67
29
52
35
36
36
46
25
61
52
87
60
57
53
73
44
48
53
40
71

44
23
62
44
37
49
36
41
46
25
47
33
47
43
37
67
37

No-

Lodi'•

JtU
Me mber.hip

75
573 Hillcrest ....................
574 S . W. Hackett --···---·· 581
575 Fort Crook................ 213
576 El Cajon Valley .... 573
577 Sunnyside ................ 394
497
578· Progressive
579 Warren G. Harding.. 661
580 Santa Maria -·- ······· 121
581 Security .................... 394
582 Rialto ·-···············--···· 329
583 Wasco ·--············-···-··-· 342
584 Harding --········--··-··--· 310
336
585 Manchester
586 Garden Grove ·······-·· 444
587 Valley Forge ·---·--··--· 417
588 El Sereno .................. 433
589 Kauai ················-----··· 121
590 Compass .................... 347
591 Escalon ···············-······ 165
592 Tujunga ····-·······-····· 368
593 All States .................. 528
594 Service ...................... 915
595 Alexander G. B ell.... 265
596 Guardian ·············--··· 995
593, Pearl Harbor .......... 624
599 Carmelita .................. 358
600 Lynwood ·················- 565
601 Grizzly ······-··············· 121
602 Melrose ...................... 252
603 Dimond ···············-······ 270
604 Jubilee ...................... 437
605 Glassell Park . .,....... 398
607 Sojourner ···-··-········· 312
608 Granada .................... 786
609 Provident ···········-·-·-·· 512
610 Elmhurst .................. 283
611 Canoga ················--·-·· 471
612 Temple City ............ 550
613 Three Pillars ............ 453
614 Larchmont ................ 381
615 Hemet ........................ 275
616 R. E. Dolley ··········--·· 262
617 B ig Bear .................. 161
618 Southland ·········-·----·· 379
619 Neptune .................... 319
620 Point Loma .............. 719
621 The Gardens ............ 530
622 Atwater .................... 373
623 Menorah ··-················· 1192
624 Fortitude .................. 216
625 Angeles Mesa ............. 706
626 Chula Vista ·······-······ 695
627 Lamanda Park ........ 311
628 Truth ···-··················· 238
629 Fairview ·············--····· 307
630 Ingleside .................. 217
259
631 Benevolence
632 Normal Heights ...... 809
833 Poinsettia .................. 752

19'3 Member.hip
1H4
Particlp•tion
1963
Contrl bution1
%
Contributions

204.87*
2,129.17•
604.oo•
1,263.73*
1,164.00·
1,746.88*
1,884.96•
593_50•
1,227.64*
675.30•
1,050.25*
959 _33•
938.69*
1,492.79•
1,150.03*
1,289.22•
424.50*
875.oo•
170.50
827.48*
1.686.50•
3,014.12•
l,784.Q7•
4,114.27•
2,541.06·
1,647.89•
2,777.77*
316.oo•
636.19•
865.05*
1,526.57•
1,268.17*
801.05•
2,45 1.10*
1,100.00•
564.00·
2,251.62*
1,781.73*
1,287.44*
1,674.38*
914.01 *
1,315.99*
508.50*
1,218.64*
655.50*
1,532.00*
1,545.23•
1,679.51 •
5,415.57•
445.50*
1,515.47•
1,848.06*
1,028.47*
816.56•
1,213.66*
690.00•
538.31 *
1,902.04*
1,897.26•

45
57
83
39
40
53
71
67
47
34
67
28
29
56
54
38
50
65
24
53
48
52
60
73
58
48
85
64
32
57
52
50
34
49
36
34
37
44
55
61
69
64
48
46
31
35
34
59
49
36
83
50
53
52
53
61
53
40
38

112.00•
1,979.11°
488.50*
1,873.01 *
1,186.37•
2,194.94*
2,062.06*
769.00•
1,295.80•
773.78•
972.67*
1,003.51 *
1,377.22*
1,980.01 *
1,149.33•
1,543.99•
470.5o•
1,146.oo•
67.00
1,141.42*
1,687.75•
3,387.67•
1,724.09*
3,770.52•
2,391.25*
1,818.12*
2,086.96•
320.00*
764.58*
885.00*
1,396.31 *
1,433.62*
1,021.46*
2,245.54*
1,563.39•
613.00*
1,455.80*
2,514.33•
1,369.08*
1,843.59•
1,114.00*
1,068.15•
486.00*
1,237.18*
688.18*
1,528.30*
1,600.00·
1,789.33*
6,489.55*
488.oo•
1,758.90*
2,153.02*
1,081.77*
719.38*
1,109.03•
722.00*
622.86•
1,857.05*
1,173.70

19'4
Participation
Membu1 'l"c

35
293
134
254
178
285
485
98
209
140
187
104
195
246
220
189
66
238
18
218
243
523
156
636
342
198
335
73
75
120
202
228
122
349
263
104
182
300
232
232
195
106
75
188
145
252
184
239
684
84
663
357
160
110
150
134
188
323
165

47
50
63
44
45
57
73
81
53
43
55
34
58
55
53
44
55
69
11
59
46
57
59
64
55
55
59
60
30
44
46
57
39
44
51
37
39
55
51
61

71

40
47
50
45
35
35
64
57
39
94
51
51
46
49
62
73
40
22

160

?\o.

634
635
636
637
638
639
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667

666

669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694

1964
Membership

Lodge

Victorville ···------------Riversi de ----· -·· --········
John Marshall .........
Palisad es ··--·--- ---·-·-···
Indian Rock--·---·····--Composite -------------·-·
James A. Foshay ....
La Cumbre ·····--------···
Alta Loma ................
Lomita ---·····------------··
A. F. E. Irwin ..........
Metropolitan -----------·
Hawthorne ····---------·
Damascus ..................
Florence ....................
La Brea ---------···-------Menlo Park ------------Crescenta Valley ____
Fontana --- -------------·--.
Jordan ----··--·--·----·---··
Monte Vista ----··----··
Citro! ---------------·---------·
John D. Spreckels ....
Livingston ................
La Habra -------- ---------·
Baldwin Park -------·
Malta··----------------··-----·
Henry Knox ---·-------Ojai ·--------- --------------Kaweah ···-------------····
Reseda ---------------------Meridian ··----------------San Gorgonio ..........
John P. Jarman ......
Greenleaf ··-------------·-·
San Clemente ···------Laguna Beach .........
Far West ···---------------Los Cerritos ..............
Modesto -.. ----. -.. - ·-.. .
Willow Glen ·····------·
Liberal Arts ...... ----·Altadena -·-----------···-·
Canby Cross ·-···------Carmel ··········-----------·
Dos Palos ..................
Barstow ... ------. ------· ..
Redwood Empire ____
Tron a ··--················ ··
San Marino ·------------Albany --··-------··-···--···
Vista ---·······-------·--·····
Oildale ---·-·----············
Pohona ·········· ·· ·· · ·· ·· ···
San Carlos -----·----- .
Indian Wells Valley
Travelers ----············ ··
Palm Springs ..........
San Antonio ............
-

~.

-

290
642
285
438
203
726
206
360
391
374
261
185
586
731
402
262
359
626
398
425
857
268
673
220
280
354
266
414
133
137
1)47
513
271
315
900
156
201
355
541
535
419
437
528
144
25 5
168
448
119
156
470
214
339
287
88
469
449
204
261
271

1963 Mem bor1hip

196t

1964
Participation
Contribution•
Contribution•
%

Putieipatio"
Members %

1963

890.50*
2,114.07*
1,046.78*
2,087.59*
505.00*
2,586.00*
753.39*
1,556.00*
1,460.85*
1,329.69*
946.94*
762.61 *
1,505.99*
2,283.17*
1,411.38*
911.38*
753.32*
1,632.31 *
1,128.43*
1,131.13*
2,661.96*
1,035.85*
1,79 1.51 *
472.50*
978.90*
1,174.17*
980.98*
1,912.56*
568.00*
280.00*
2,573.73*
1,242.67*
946.75*
652.50*
2,709.27*
313.05*
470.50*
845.75~

1,543.68*
1,196.72*
956.98*
1,520.53*
1,792.56*
536.50*
355.50*
1,331.15°
302.00*
486.50*
2,749.57*
502.75
345.14*
1,038.25*
174.50*
1,642.57*
1,030.80*
533.oo•
783.0l *
832.84*

75
68
72
53
31
58
36
54
34
43
51
79
48
41
50
50
37
39
34
44
36
53
28
47
70
37
46
52
42
36
49
62
100
46
51
44
41
55
59
31
38
67
55
0
42
68
58
38
56
84
46
25
75
59
58
86
47
81
49

161

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDlN GS OF THE

653.15*
2.255.79*
1,051.65*
2,529.63*

152
463
182
299

52
72
64
68

2,881.50*
766.90°
1,860.90"
1,507.35*
1,294. 95*
973.33*
966.45*
1,844.05*
2,206.91 *
1,040.41 *
1,430.18*
732.50*
1,893.37*
1,295.30*
1,184.15*
3,430.99*
927.17*
1,468.00*
514.50*
1,069.47*
1.188.08*
962.23*
1,995.26*
776.79*
211.50
3,015.57*
1,672.80*
886.25*
637.75*
2,934.85*
411.00*
49.00
836.00*
1,589.68*
1,254.14*
819.00
1,625.55*
1,803.57*
240.00
534.50*

431
107
257
144
195
144
141
268
312
153
71
125
322
200
178
426
120
249
107
199
131
88
204
100
45
430
240
134
123
355
71
5
170
322
203
139
268
267
55
108

59
52
71
37
52
55
76
46
43
38
27
35
51
50
42
50
45
37
49
71
37
33
49
55
33
51
47
49
39
39
46
2
48
60
38
33
61
51
38
42

1,370.60*
349.76*
475.50*
2,584.49*
398.00
449.43
1.018.50*

222
56
88
337
96
86
234

50
47
56

1,430.20•
940.50*
614.00*
859.03*
858.41.

240
310
105
181
128

51
69
51

72

45
25
82

69
47

1964

?\o.

695
696
697
698
699
700
701
702
703
704
705
706
707
708
709
710
711
712
713
714
715
716

717
718
719
720
721
722
723
724
725
726
727
728
729
730
731
732
733
734
735
736
737
738
739
740
741
742
743
744
745
746
747
748
749
750
751
752
753

Lodge

Membership

Meudell -----··----------·-· 217
Crossroads ................ 354
Saint Elmo ------------- --- 275
Wm. D. Stephens .... 194
Bixby Knolls···--------- 386
Ponderosa --------------·· 377
Santa Ynez Valley .. 145
Rosemead .................. 250
Westchester .............. 493
Orinda ----··---------------· 258
El Cerrito -·-----·-···------ 218
Hunters Point Naval 241
Lake Tahoe -------------- 102
Seafaring .................. 515
Lorenzo ...................... 382
Anacapa .................... 262
Rim of the World .... 178
Los Altos ----······-------- 230
Castro Valley .......... 322
Blue Lakes ·····--------- 226
Magnolia Park -·------ 306
Belmont Shore ·----· 367
Wayfarer --------·-----·-·· 205
96
San Lorenzo Valley
Estero ----------------······ 158
Mineral King ............ 113
Home •••••••••U••••••••• •••• 539
Geoge E. Tutt.......... 182
Acalanes ···-........ -----·. 194
San Ramon Valley .. 159
Saint John's···--------··· 243
213
Yucaipa
Verdugo Hitls -------· 110
Lakewood ·••·•••n••••••• 263
Centennial ··-------------- 164
Polaris ........................... 179
Two Rivers .............. 184
San Juan ·----------------- 223
162
Golden Empire
Kit Carson ................ 195
Oasis of Mara .......... 123
Lemon Grove ---·------ 452
Hillsborough ............ 184
Arvin ----------------·-···-·· 131
La Canada -------------· 163
226
Opportunity
Tyre··---··--------------------- 250
Morningside Park. ... 190
Oakwood ····-·-········-·· 105
San Leandro ............ 197
Peninsula ........... -...... 157
Soquel -·---·--·············· 169
Claude H. Morrison 136
Highland -----------------· 214
Merced --·---·-------------·- 153
Mother Colony -----··- 182
Hamilton
156
202
Luther Burbank
Lawndale ······-·········- 217
oooooHo o o OH Oo•••••

o o o o H O o o o oOO o o o o o

1963 Membenhlp
1963
196(
Participation
Contributions
Contribution•
%

547.11 *
1,145.10*
1,144.00*
949.75*
1,668.84*
925.50*
515.25*
1,053.25*
1,142.63*
631.50*
653.03*
884.50*
233.00*
1,478.88*
1,117.00*
888.54*
525.46*
881.50*
1,196.50*
560.52*
860.01 *
1,432.00*
836.00*
336.00*
642.50*
373.32*
1,553.01 *
523.oo•
427.00*
439.50*
756.75*
470.50*
458.76*
1,053.66*
1,034.79*
800.75*
863.28*
921.00*
946.00*
960.50*
333.25*
1,380.40*
1,120.59*
466.34*
936.34*
1,177.20*
941.70*
819.10*
735.43*
628.50*
892.50*
378.00*
292.50*
459.75*
466.25*
474_34•
555.93*
568.00*
559.98*

81
75
53
58
77
60
81

66

64
52
56
73
31
58
67
58

66

65
90
65
57
53
47
82

66

51
76
68
32
36
52
77
82
55
100
75
70
65
79
72
100
49
74
85
78
61
76
93
100
56
79
70
57
44
51
43
76
37
34

119.16
1,246.08*
1,242.00*
1,748.00*
1,830.67*
921.50*
551.25*
1,084.48*
1,975.86*
738.50*
689.36*
861.50*
338.43*
1,765.69*
1,434.40*
1,243.57*
393.72*
1,037.50*
1,340.75*
684.00*
1,485.29*
2,391.40*
623.32*
338.00*
483.98*
347.50*
1,481.43*
613.00*
439.33*
555.50*
719.00*
828.25*
613.06*
1,048.18*
692.65*
864.6 1*
792.70*
1,017.25
1,100.00
917.00*
245.00
1,378.79*
985.00*
433.25*
877.36*
1,508.54*
1,236.05*
825.03*
649.49*
607.50*
818.75*
513.00*
287.00*
592.01 *
377.oo•
413.39*
357.67 *
731.75*
868.41 *

196•

P artlcipatlon
Membeu %

2
4
77
274
54
148
235 100
281
73
218
58
141
97
163
65
318
65
192
74
136
62
74
179
41
40
242
47
308
81
185
71
63
112
154
67
296
92
169
75
205
67
158
43
75
37
92
96
89
56
54
48
59
317
58
105
67
35
74
47
40
96
80
171
93
85
171
65
54
88
123
69
136
75
146
65
139
86
129
66
122
99
199
44
106
58
83
63
107
66
145
64
189
76
185
97
92
88
96
49
71
112
123
73
79
58
121
57
84
55
66
36
74
47
79
159
117
54

162

No.

754
755
756
757
758
759
760
761
762
763
764
765
766
767
768
769
770
771
772
773
774
775
776
777
778
779
780
781
782
783
784
785
786
787
788
789
790
791
792
793
794
795
796
797
798
799
800
801
802
803
804
805
806
807
808
809
810
811

PROCEEDINGS OF TH E

Lodre

1964
Memberahip

San Pablo ..................
Golden Bowl ............
Clayton Valley ........
Cha nn el ....................
West Covina ···- ·······
El Rancho ................
La k eside ....................
Josiah W. Roller ....
Coastside ...................
Arabic ........................
Heritage ....................
Dana R. Weller ......
James H. Kew ........
Wm. Rhodes Herve y
Zenith ······················
Palmdale ...................
Lake Chabot ............
Mission Bay ..............
Avenal . . ....................
Tejon .........................
Waikiki ...u u••••••• • • • •••••
San Dieguito ............
East Whittier ............
Pinnacle ....................
La Mirada ................
Five Points ..............
Riviera .......................
Rolling Hills ............
Silverado ..................
Mojave ......................
Leland Stanford ....
Paramoun t .................
Rio Linda ................
Westm inster .............
Sierra ························
Oak Plains
Granada Hills ..........
Gen.Henry
H. Arnold .............
Millbrae ....................
Maya .........................
Mt. Wilson ................
American River ......
Golden Valley ........
Tila Pass ..................
Ashland ........................
Bay Clair e Vista ......
Rio Hondo ·····-·········
Koolau ...................
Yucca Valley ............
The Gabilan ............
Moreno Valley ........
Camellia ....................
Simi Va lley ..............
Conejo Valley ..........
Scepter ........................
Los Alamitos.............
Victoria Palms ...........
Woodland Hills .........

- --·

1963 Membeuhlp
1963
Participation
1964
Contribution•
Contribution•
%

130
192
272
130
205
221
119
189
126
174
161
144
158
152
266
222
144
199
62
206
155
211
189
55
176
106
153
124
136
82
138
106
112
120
85
172
143

167.00
953.06•
857.17•
342.00•
952.92•
459.56•
268.25•
564.67•
359.oo•
728.25•
734.13°
674.06•
833.42•
742.oo•
1,388.71 •
893.41 •
405.50•
684.00*
114.oo•
513.63°
579.35°
176.75
620.48•
166.oo•
922.64•
596.17*
1,302.00•
812.49•
278.00*
339.70*
471.oo•
316.00*
755.25°
293.84•
217.50*
631.75*
891.45•

68
81
66
63
65
66
78
74
46
84
67
14
38
87
95
84
100
62
63
89
83
81
100
63
48
70
73

119
74
90
147
154
154
105
99
69
104
84
120
60
53
116
78
102
91
67
58
86

375.20*
210.00•
305.50°
687.88•
497.oo•
469.51 •
1,117.75*
278.50•
282.75*
670.61 •
242.00•
542.00•
301.00·
111.00*
1,224.25*
345.00*
477.50*
533.63•
160.50°

63
83
74
59
54
100
68
75
78
62
86
51
66
100
100
100
96
58

309.50*

100

20
74
56
49
69
39
47
64
72
72

71

163

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA
196'
Partl<ipatJon
Me mbera

"

318.75•
1,027.08•
943.30•
428.50•
1,240.52•
450.00•
368.50°
625.50•
531.25 °
825.oo•
592.02•
724.69•
985.oo•
773.oo•
1,653.34•
932.92*
440.00*
783.00*
159.21 *
622.01 •
624.oo•
424.00°
622.43*
189.00*
1,106.25•
454.57•
1,254.97*
670.01 •
255.00
377.15*
497.oo•
448.48*
1,154.58*
389. 12*
301.00°
1,030.50•
833.31°

51
39
151
79
133
49
73
56
165
80
71
32
71
60
190 100
107
85
142
82
90
56
130
90
99
63
96
63
171
64
144
65
95
66
131
66
29
47
196
95
102
66
65
31
88
47
50
91
207 100
58
55
155 100
64
52
73
54
68
83
105
76
87
82
113 100
72
60
49
58
144
84
105
73

497.oo•
259.50*
359.43*
729.52°
559.92•
509.24°
606.oo•
274.00*
281.75*
1,023.00*
268.25·
767.82•
281.50*
171.88*
914.00*
267.50•
386.66*
534.47°
219.50*
323.50•
490.34•

85
71
38
51
62
69
82
56
87
56
70
45
60
57
45
45
45
65
93
89
51
61
98
82
34
57
36
68
92
79
63 80
61
62
86
95
31
46
103 100
75
87

N o.

Lod1te

1964
Membership

71
812 Triad ..........................
66
813 Old West ..................
814 Plaza De Los
Angeles ...................... 56
U.D. Mount Baldy .......... 73
U.D. Manh attan ................ 51
U.D. Wm. B. Ogden .......... 43
U.D. Great Lights ............ 49
244,499
TOTAL

No. Calif. Research ............ 85
Centra l Calif. Research .... 68
So. Calif. Research .......... 108
54
El Camino Research ..........
GRAND TOTAL

244,814

1963 Me mbership
196'
Partldpatlon
1963
Contribution•
Contribution•
%

500.00•
170.oo•

100
93

174.oo•
125.oo•

100
68

224.94.

47

511.36•
395.59.

196'
Partith>ation
Membero %

117
66

100
100

57 100
309.oo•
75
55
194.50•
42
82
262.45•
45 100
440.00•
40
82
133.24•
48
783,138.56 118,229
Average Contribution - $6.62
47
40
34.80
226.58•

50

46

·······O~er-All A verage Contribution - $6.62
48
783,339.94 118,319

R e ferred to Committee on Finance.

164

165

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

$779,790. due various ban ks. which amount has been further reduced
since the end of the fiscal year to $593,790. To recapitulate the progress
of the debt toward retirement, the original borrowing was $2.303,790.
again st which principal payment·s of $1.710.000 have been made as of
September 1, 1964. It can truly be said that the end is now reachable.
The physical condition of the Temple practically speaks for itself
to those in attendance a t this Annual Communication. and the Trustees
have adopted a policy of keeping this now famous San Francisco landmark in prime condition through the gradual build-up of a reserve fund
for repairs and replacement.
Since the last Communication 14 additional Lodges have attained
Honor Roll status. making a total of 583 who have met the goal of "a
day's wages" of $10.00 per member. Special commendation should be
given to Districts 215, 366. 540. and 548 who have joined the Honor
Roll during the year with 100 % of their Lodges now on board.
Slowly but surely the list of Lodges which have not quite reached
Honor Roll status is being reduced. As of the preparation date of this
report, out of 707 Lodges, 130 or 18% have not ye t contributed an
amount sufficient to meet the full challenge. If California Freemasonry
had, as of this date. subscribed I 00% to the Honor Roll, the debt would
be reduced by an additional $180,876.
In the fall of this year the world's great athletes will gather in
Tokyo for the 1964 Olympics. One of the important decisions for the
distance runner and the distance swimmer is when to make the fi nal
drive for the finish line. When should the last exertion be made which
will lead to victory?
So are we concerned now the timing of that final effort which will
give us a Memorial T emple debt free. The finish line is com~ng. ~nto
sight. Special gifts from members who have the bene~t (or the ltab1l.1ty)
of a high income tax bracket could during the commg year ~atenall?'
reduce the remaining obligation. Since the quota of membership contnbution was first fixed in 1955, more than 50,000 have joined the ranks
of Freemasonry in California Lodges. all of them brothers who should
want to participate in the final drive which would deliver the Temple
free a nd unencumbered to those who follow. We believe that these new
members (most of them non-contributors) would want their names listed
in the Open Book as ''Builders of the Temple." It is necessary that they
be made aware of the opportunity they have - before it becomes too
late for them to stand and be counted. The office in the T emple has
contribution t:ards available - just place your order.
We do not in any manner wish to suggest that gifts from new mem~
bers only be solicited. Many brethren are "repeaters''. Many more are
needed. It is not vitally important how much you give, but that you DO
give.
.
It is the considered opinion of your Board that the dream of eighteen

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. of California:
This is the Tenth Annual Report of the Board of Trustees of the
California Masonic Memoria l Temple.
At the close of the 1963 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge the
Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple met in Annual Meeting. The President. Arthur M. Warren, reported the election of Theodore Meriam as Deputy Grand Master. Myron E. Smith as Senior Grand
Warden, and Laurence E. Dayton as Junior Grand Warden. On proper
motion they were duly elected members of the Board of Trustees as
provided in the California Masonic Code.
The Board then proceeded to organize with Arthur M. Warren.
Past Grand Master. as President. Ralph H. Head as Vice-President.
Paul A. Pflueger as Treasurer, and Edward H. Siems, Past Grand
Master and Grand Secretary. as Secretary.
The terms of the appointed members of the Board are as follows :
Expiring in 1964, Paul A. Pflueger and Samuel I. Jacobs, and expiring
in 1965, Lyle E. Patton and Ralph H. Head. and expiring in 1966, T .
Galt Atwood and Chester R. MacPhee.
It is the duty and responsibility of Trustees to report to its trustors
any loss or damage which occurs and which might impair the property or
the trust. So it is that the Trustees record an irreplaceable loss when on
May 21. 1964, its President, Arthur M . Warren. was summoned by the
Supreme Grand Architect. No finer monument can be erected to a man
than that which he himself built with his own hands inspired by his
heart and mind. This Memorial Temple, the Masonic Homes of California, and above all the Grand Lodge of California stand today on
firmer foundations because of the courage, the faith, and the endeavors
of Arthur Melvin Warren.
At a special Board Meeting on July 1O. 1964, Ralph H. Head and
Samuel I. Jacobs were called upon by the Trustees to serve for unexpired
terms as President and Vice-President.
Under the capable direction of George D. Gavin, serving his first
full year as building manager, rental income from the auditorium and
exhibit hall increased an exceptional 91 % while total rental increased
'11 %. Brother Gavin's years of activity in business and property development combined with his fraternal and community devotion have given
Memorial Temple an authoritative and enthusiastic entrepreneur. H is
report along with the complete audited financial statement of Lybrand
Ross Bros. & Montgomery are to be considered a part of this message.
The remaining debt of any significance on our financial statement is

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

years ago does not need to culminate in one final lunge at the tape. If
every officer of every Lodge accepts the challenge they can without fanfare or promotion but with education, perseverance and enthusiasm
bring California Freemasonry so close to the goal twelve months from
now that this great and lasting memorial to Masons who have served
their country with that last full measure of devotion will be declared
paid-in-full by acclamation.

REPORT OF THE MANAGER

166

Respectfully submitted,

To the Tru stees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
Brethren :
The last year has been very rewarding to the Temple staff. Many of
our pressing problems have been met and corrective measures taken.
Our Auditorium has greater acceptability and we look forward to its
increased popularity. With a dedicated staff. we can make furth er
marked improvement.

RALPH H . HEAD, President

OFFICERS AND TRUSTEES:
SAMUEL I. JACOBS, Vice~President
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Secretary
THEODORE MERJAM. Deputy Grand Master
MYRON E. SMITH, Senior Grand Warden
LAURENCE E. DAYTON, Junior Grand Warden
T. GALT ATWOOD, Trustee
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, Trustee
LYLE E. PATTON, Trustee

Referred to Committee on Finance.

167

MAINTENANCE

We have checked out all mechanical operations in the Temple a nd
a "built in" deficiency in our ventilating and hea ting system has been
corrected. Several economies have been made, which will have recurring
benefits to our operations.
We have completely adjusted our electrical usage to meet the de~
mands of the Temple. This has resulted in a reduction of electricity
usage sufficient to permit absorption of the increased costs, caused by
greater occupancy of the Temple and has made a net reduction for the
year of 7.7% .
Janitorial salaries, cost of supplies and services have been increase.cl
and this has been offset by economies in the purchase and use of supplies
and by our employees doing some of the work which was previously
contracted.
PAINTING

The exterior qf the Temple had not been painted for six years. A
large number of settlement cracks developed in the outer concrete walls.
This permitted water to seep in. The entire exterior, excluding the marble
areas, has been sealed and painted. It is not expected that this work will
have to be done again for at least eight years.
IN COME

Income from rentals, excluding the garage, has increased 91 % in
1964 over 1963, while operating expense increased 13% for the same
period (excluding the seal and the exterior pain t work the increase was

11/z o/o.)
GARAGE

Last year we reported a $9,000.00 increase in our garage revenue
participation. over the preceding year. We are pleased to report that the
twelve month period, July 1, 1963. to June 30, 1964, shows another sub~
stantial increase amounting to $7,150.00. The increased occupancy of the
Temple is, in part, responsible for this improvement. Each performance
in the Auditorium. or meeting in the Exhibit Hall. adds greatly to the
garage income.
TOURS

We are indebted to Inspector Ed Lohmeyer for his continuing gra~

168

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

cious assistance in handling T emple Tours. He and his Committe e have
never failed to take over these assignmen ts. In addition to prearrang ed
tours, we continue to keep the Temple open on Saturdays and Sundays
from 12: 00 noon to 4: 00 P .M. to welcome all visitors.
Our register shows visitors from all parts of the W orld . It is pa rticularly noticeable the number who come from Australia, New Zealand and
Canada.
C ONV ENTION AND THEATRE DEVELOPM ENTS

Several Bay Area communities, including San Francisco , are working
on plans for new sports a renas and theatres .
The Civic Auditoriu m's remodelin g work is almost completed and
the San Francisco Hilton is developing conventio n trade fo r their Hotel.
which opened this year.
OCCUPAN CY

The following are a few of the outs tanding programs presented in
the Auditorium .
A reception for Prince Bertel of Sweden ; Mitch Miller and his
"Sing Along Gang"; Marlene Dietrich; Peter, P aul & Mary: George
Shearing; Marian Makeba; Al Hirt; The West Point Glee Club; California Youth Symphony Orchestra , and the Philadelph ia Symphony
Orchestra . The San Francisco Symphony , with Arthur Fiedler conducting, presented nine "Pops" Concerts. The American Medical Association had it>s "House of Delegates " meeting and their Inaugural Session in our Auditorium .
We are particularl y pleased to have had a greater occupancy in our
Exhibit Hall. Among the longer runs were the very outstandin g "Science in Germany" , the "America n Institute of Decorators", the Camp
Fire Girls Conclave and the American Personnel and Guidance Convention.
New SERVICES
We have installed cold and hot drink dispensers on the Exhibit
Floor. together with candy and sandwich services. These facilities have
met the demands of patrons, particularl y those who attend our shows.
We also have made ava ilable to visitors picture postcards of the Temple
and our Souvenir Booklet.
THE FUTURE

Our bookings for the first nine months of the calendar year 1964
already exceed the twelve month period of 1963. We have substantia l
bookings for the balance o f 1964. which include seventeen performan ces
booked by one producer for the fall and spring seasons.
" Holds" on our Exhibit Hall extend to 1995. Large conventio ns now
feel the necessity of protecting their regular years in San Francisco.
Outside Public Relations contacts are being continued when time
perrtlits. We were re-elected to the San Francisco Conventio n and Visi-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

169

tors Bureau Board of Directors. which is closely related to some of our
responsibilities.
It has been a great pleasure to serve the Temple and to meet t h e d at·1 Y
challenges .
.
b h b h
·th
The co-operati on and assistance so freely given
y t e ret ren. w1
whom we come in contact, is greatly appreciate d. Vie look toward the
day when the Temple will be free from all debt.
R espectful/ y submitted .
GEORGE D . GAVIN , Manager

At 4 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 a .m. Tuesda y.

170

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND SECRETARY' S REPORT

IN GRANO LODGE
MoRNING S EssroN, TuESDA Y, O CTOBER

171

13, 1964

Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 a .m .. the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday. October 12.
were read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON DISTRIBU TION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. [,A. M. of California:
The Committee on Distribution , to which has been referred the
Annual Message of the Grand Master and Reports of the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary, submits the following report:

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Secretary's Report
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated:
I. That portion of the report relative to the changes of meeting place
to the Committees on Charters and on By-Laws.
2. That portion of the report respecting Lodge consolidatio ns to the
Committee on Charters.
3. That portion of the report relating to the per capita tax from
Frank S. Land Lodge U.D. to the Committee on Finance.
The Report of the Grand Secretary reflects a continuation of the
excellent services which this office renders for Grand Lodge. The staff
of the Grand Secretary's office is to be congratulate d for the helpfulness
which they render to the Lodges of California.
Respectfully submitted.
NILES 0. MILLAR
BASIL R. GILLETT
}AMES E. WELLET

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
herein listed be referred to the Committees indicated:
1. To the Committee on Jurisprude nceAll decisions of the Grand Master, the same being numbered
to 23 inclusive.
2. To the Committee on Policy and General PurposesDecisions 2, 5, 13, 17 and 22.
3. To the Committee on RitualDecisions 21 and 23.
4. To the Committee on Policy and General PurposesThe recommenda tion that the Grand Lodge Committee on Constitution Observance to be made a Standing Committee.
5. To the Committee on FinanceThe recommenda tion that a budget of $6.650.00 be granted to
the Committee on Constitution Observance for the ensuing
Masonic Year.
6. To the Committees on Finance, and on Policy and General
PurposesThe recommenda tion that the California Freemason be sent at
Grand Lodge expense to every California and Hawaiian member
in good standing.
The message of the Grand Master reflects a year of untiring effort
on his part in promoting the general welfare of the Fraternity.
GRANO TREASURER 'S REPORT

We recommend the referral of this report in its entirety to the Committee on Finance.

Adopted.

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMISS ION
ON MASONIC PRACTIC ES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
With this report. the Special Commission on Masonic Practices
announces two largely unprecedent ed steps which it has taken. The
first is to return to the Treas urer unspent a substantial portion of the
funds budgeted to it for the past Masonic year. The second is its recommendatio n that its own existence be terminated.
The commission was created two years ago by the direct action of
Past Grand Master Ira Coburn. and was charged with the basic duty
of ascertaining from the membership of the Craft in California and
Hawaii what the problems of the Craft were as the membership saw
them, and what various suggestions might come from the Brethren as
to their solution. The commission was strictly a fact-finding body. As
such it interviewed great numbers of members. and gathered large quantities of material through the extensive use of questionnair es. All replies
to its inquiries were held in strictest confidence.
Thereafter, the commission made its firs t report which set out major
problem areas and suggested alternative solutions. The commission itself
made no recommenda tions as to action to be taken by the Lodges. but
earnestly requested each Lodge to analyze its own condition in light of
the report and then to experiment with such remedial suggestions as
might appeal to it. This procedure was strongly endorsed by the then
Grand Master.
During the past year, the commission has distributed over 30.000
copies of its report to the membership , has met with many Lodges and
District Officers' Association s to amplify and discuss its report. and has

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

at all times been available for consultation with any Lodge which wished
assistance in solving its own problems by resort to one or more of the
possible actions described in the report.

THE GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC
NATIONAL MEMORIAL

172

Thereafter, Grand Master Heald directed the Masters of all Lodges
to report on action, if any, taken by them as a result of the suggestions
made in the commission's printed report.
From the Masters' responses received up to July 1st, it appears that
various suggestions presented in the commission's report have received
substantial support and have been put in practice. Principally, these
suggestions include action in beginning and ending meetings on time.
with a carefully worked out order of business; definite programs to locate,
attract and bring sojourners into active Lodge participation; the impressing upon all members of the broad areas concerning which it is wholly
permissible and appropriate to talk about Masonry to non-members; real
activity to improve the physical appearance of Lodges both inside and
outside; a heavy increase in social activities bringing the whole families
of members into personal contact with Masonry and those active in it
and the highly successful formation and regular use of telephone committees to stimulate attendance at Lodge affairs.
The commission is gratified by these results of its study. and especially so because concrete results in increased attend;:mce, renewed member interest and improved public relations are already apparent.
There remain, however, problem areas of grave concern in respect
to which increasing effort must be made for the strength and health of
the Craft. These areas include, among others, the achievement of better
leadership for many of the Lodges. the development of more meaningful
education in the great spiritual truths which undergird the dignity and
purpose of the individual in relation to the universe, the proper support
of youth activities to combat the lowering of standards and an increased
activity of the Craft in meaningful public ceremonies and observances.
To abandon these areas is to this commission unthinkable. But each
of these areas is beyond the commission's charter, and falls within the
responsibility of the Grand Master and this Grand Lodge.
For this reason, your Commission on Masonic Practices believes that
its own special project has been completed and that the implementation
of the many advances yet to be made by the Fraternity in this Grand
jurisdiction should pass to those especially empowered so to do.
Respectfully submitted.
ROBERT B. WATTS

A. BARTLETT Moss

NORMAN L. LANGNESS

VrRL BENNEHOFF

DELBERT E. LU CK

ROBERT L. KARNES

SIMON F. BOLGER

173

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
This is a report on The George Washington Masonic National
Memorial located on Shooters Hill at Alexandria, Virginia-the memorial erected to the memory and in honor of our first President, George
Washington, Master Mason.
Of all the memorials dedicated to one who was so aptly described as
"Father of our Country"-memorials in the form of monuments, paintings. sculptures, essays, poems, documents, etc.-the memorial erected
on Shooters Hill is the one of which we as Masons are most proud for
it was conceived in the minds of brethren who felt that one so illustrious
as George Washington should be memorialized in tangible form by the
Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons in which our distinguished
brother was an earnest and devoted member.
Briefly, my brethren, on February 22. 1910, the groundwork for our
Memorial was laid when representatives from 18 Grand Lodges met in
Alexandria-Washington Lodge No. 22 to consider proposals fo r a
memorial in the form of a monumental type building which would not
only be inspirational in design but would also provide adequate space
to house and safely preserve the Washington relics which were then
in the old Lodge room in downtown Alexandria. As planned, the memorial building was to provide space for several Lodge rooms, space for
other M asonic organizations , a library and a museum , and for galleries
in which to <lisplay paintings, sculptures and other forms of art of interest and importam:e to Masons . And all this was to be in a place rich
in landmarks, atmosphere and traditions of the Virginia countryside,
where our revered brother spent his entire lifetime except for the years
which he gave in service to his Country.
Our records indicate that our distinguished ·senior living Past Grand
Master, Oscar Lawler. was among those who gave their support to the
proposed memorial project.
The Memorial Association was permanentiy organized the following
year on February 22, 1911; ground for the Memorial was broken on June
5, 1922 and the cornerstone was laid on November l, 1923 under the
auspices of The Grand Lodge of V irginia in the presence of some 25,000
persons including President Calvin Coolidge, Chief Justice William H .
Taft and the Grand Masters of all Grand Jurisdictions in the Nation.
Eight and one-half years later, on May 12, 1932-the George Washington Bicentennial Year-the Memorial was dedicated at the largest
meeting of its kind ever held, with President Herbert Hoover assisting.
So, from an arduous beginning. followed by years of hard work and
lack of adequate fina ncing, the efforts begun by our brethren fifty -four
years ago to provide Masons and all Americans whithersoever dispersed

174

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

with a suitable a nd appropriate Masonic Memorial to our distinguis hed
brother have borne fruit.
A word about the physical aspects of the M emorial. Located on a
36 acre site, once considered as the site for our national capitol, the
memorial building. 168 feet wide. 248 feet long and 333 feet high on an
elevation of I 08 feet above sea-level. affords a beautiful. panoramic view
of the City of W ashington six miles distant. the City of Alexandria at
the foot of the hill and. to the north, historic Arlington- the final resting
place of so many illustrious in the history of our N ation. Then, to the
south , on the Potomac River, lies Mt. Vernon , the home and hallowed
shrine of him who we honor by this Memorial.
Contained within the building are rooms and exhibits rich in Masonic
lore and interes t.
Time will not permit a complete description of the interior-but of
prime interes t is The Replica Lodge Room with the furnishings used in
the Lodge over which George Washington presided as M as ter; the great
Memorial H all with its eight 60-ton polished green granite columns and
the two large 46 x 18 foot murals-one depicting the Laying of the Cornerstone of the United States Capitol. September 18, 1793 with President W ashington officiating at the Masonic ceremony ; and the other
showing General Washington attending a religious service on St. John's
Day. December 28. 1778 in Christ Church. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania.
These fine murals. my brethren, were presented to the Memorial by the
Grand Lodge of California on February 22, 1957. The central point of
interes t in the Memorial Hall is, of course, the heroic bronze statue
depicting Brother George Washington as M aster of his Lodge. The
statue is 17'3" high and weighs nearly eight tons.
There is so much more of interest which could be told but I will
confine any further description of the interior to the "Twelve Dioramas
of Events in W ashington's Life" which are on display in the Assembly
Room. These Dioramas. d epicting important events in the life of George
Washington. are mos t unique, beautiful and of great his torical interest.
We in California a re mos t interested in them for it was our own
Lloyd E. Wilson, Pas t Grand Master and Pas t Grand Secretary. who
conceived the idea of the Dioramas and actua lly s upervised the entire
work from the beginning until final installation. Lloyd Wilson's heart
and soul were in the Memorial. He served as a director of the Association from February 22, 1941 until his passing in Nove mber, 1961 and
he was a member of the E xecutive Committee for over 15 years of his
total service to the Association. Thus, the Diora mas become a memorial
to the memory of our beloved brother, Lloyd E. W ilson, as well as to
George Was hington . I was most honored when, on F ebruary 22 , I 962,
I was elected a Director of the Association for the unexpired portion of
Brother Wilson's term and again in 1963 when I was elected to serve a
three year term expiring F ebruary 22. I 966.

A final word relates to the financia l and operating aspects of the
Memorial.
Since the beginning of construction in 1922. a pproximately $7.500,000 has been spent for land. building. general expenses. maintenance and
operation of grounds and building. This figure does not include the value
of don a ted art and furnishings . the $50,000 pipe organ. the $25,000
Celesta-Chime Carillon and other valuable items.
Recent independent appraisals for insurance purposes indicate a
replacement cost of improvements at $14.320,000. an appreciable increase
over the actual cost of building and equipment (excluding grounds and
maintenance) of $5.243,000.
The Memorial Association has a goal of $5.000,000 for its Endowment Fund of which approximately $2.000,000 is at hand. In addition,
there is a Maintenance and Operations Fund which fluctuates from year
to year as contributions are received and improvements are made.
Each year, in conjunction with the Conference of Grand Masters of
North America, the annual meeting of The George Washington Masonic
National Memorial Association is held on February 22, unless it falls
on a Sunday, at the Memorial in Alexandria, Virginia. Active members
of the A ssociation are the Masonic Grand Lodges of the United States
and its possessions. Each member Grand Lodge has one ( 1) vote and is
represented by its Grand Master or his proxy. The annual business
meeting is conducted by the President of the A ssociation and. as a fitting
climax. contributions for the Endowment Fund and the Maintenance and
Operations Fund are received from the Grand M asters, or their proxies,
repres enting their. Grand Lodges and from other Masonic Bodies.
By provision in our law. all applicants for the degrees of Masonry
contribute $1.00 to the Endowment Fund of the George Washington
Memoria l and we are one of 42 Grand Lodges participating in this manner. Some Grand Lodges contribute to both Funds. It is gratifying to
know tha t over the years, California Masons have contributed $538.872
to the Memorial. and that we rank third among all Grand Lodges in
total contributions. In 1963, we stood sixth in contributions for the year.
However, other Grand Lodges which did not respond as liberally in
earlier years as did California are now coming to the fore and. naturally.
we a re mos t happy that such is the case. And to you Mas ters of Lodges.
please impress your candidates with the importa nce of the great Memorial and of what is symbolizes-and a lso of the importa nce of the very
small contribution we require of them in support of the Memorial.
The M emorial Association needs to realize its goal of a $5.000,000
Endowment Fund from which can be derived earnings sufficient to maintain the Memorial in top physical condition.
Its operation is directed by a devoted group of Masons. twenty- one
in number, serving as directors. Particularly do I commend the President.
M.W. John H. Hessey of Maryland for his capable and untiring efforts

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

and also those directors who serve on the Executive Committee. Truly,
theirs is a labor of Masonic love.
This is only a capsule report, so make it your business, my brethren,
to learn all you can about the Memorial. Visit it and urge the members of
your Lodges to do so when they are visiting on the E astern seaboard.
You will be well rewarded for your effort.
But keep in mind, the Memorial is not solely a pile of brick and
mortar. To understand the real meaning and purpose of the Memorial.
I quote the aim set forth by those who began this great undertaking so
many years ago. The quotation states, so beautifully, what the M emorial
means. It reads:
"We could not hope to increase the fame of Washington nor
add to the enduring luster of his name. Our purpose was, and is,
to hand down to coming generations a testament of the love of our
Fraternity for him who was the glory of his country and an ornament
to Freemasonry .... We could not fulfill our wishes by the creation
of a new planet to shed its splendor among the stars. We could not
set to music the ceaseless surgings of the sea to carry the message
of our appreciation to every shore throughout the coming years. So.
turning from the domain of the impossible, we opened the gra nite
hills of New Hampshire to take their strength and make it a ttest
our everlasting admiration for him to whom it is dedicated. Erected of
enduring materials, our temple will stand throughout the ages. It
will carry to generations yet unborn, and to those to whom we ma y
seem an ancient race, the message of human brotherhood. It will
perpetuate the attributes of self-denial. patriotism, love of country
and fellow man, which were typified in the life and work of the
great Mason, the master-build e r of our Nation - George
Washington."
Thus, my brethren, do we honor a great American, patriot, Statesman, Mason-a ma n who helped create the greatest memorial which we
possess-The Constitution of the United States of America. I believe
that if he could appear in this assembly today, he would reaffirm his
belief in the Constitution and challenge us to do the same.
Respectfully submitted,
GUY B. M1zE, Director
Referred to Committee on Fina nce.

GRANO LODGE OP Cl\. LIFORNIA

177

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Board of Control herewith submits its annual report incorporating th e activities of our Boards of Relief and Employment Burea~s.
" Relief" is among the principal tenets of Masonry. The .word with
its implications has existed in Masonry from time immemonal and yet
it was indeed most startling to find so many of our Brethren who had so
little knowledge of its perepetuation through the efforts of our Boards of
Relief.
The Board of Control has given long and serious consideration to
ways and means of improving this situation. ~s a re~edial measure.. the
Board of Control will continue its planned educational program of
disseminating in formation relating to Boards of Relief in t~at our Breth.ren
may become more enlightened as to the purposes. functions and obiectives of our Boards.
The Board of Control is charged with the responsibility of supervising the activities of Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus and
to establish such rules and regulations as it shall deem ne~essary ~or
their effectual operation and to standardize the work that their opera~1on
may be conducted economically and efficiently. Rules a'.1d regulah~ns
and uniform standards have been established for operat10ns. reporting
and auditing, by which we are able to keep a watchful eye upon all of
the operations for which we are responsible.
The Board of Control is made up of five members who have been so
selected geographically as to best serve the interest.s of t~ose Boa~ds
of Relief within their immediate or adjacent commumty. It is the pol'.cy
of the Board to hold at least three sectional meetings each year at which
time we meet with our Boards of Relief S ecretaries in order that we may
have personal contact with them. they with e~ch other and that we ma~
a ll have a better understanding of our respective pro~le~~ and respons1
bilities. In a ddition much time has been given by md1v1dual i:n embers
of the Board of Control in working out specific problems assigned .to
them and in advising counseling and corresponding with Boards of Relief
and in the analysis of audits and reports. Although our ~~ards o.f Relief
have been operating efficiently we a re continuously s tnvmg to 1mpr~ve
their operational methods. T o this end a restudy o.f the Standard Practice
Bulletin, which governs the reporting and operational pro~edure~ of our
Boards of Relief has now been completed which we believe will more
adequately reflect desired informa tion ~ccording to current trends and
enable them to attain even greater efficiency.
It has long been the concern of the Board that many . Lo~ges ar.e
·v·ng benefits from the Boards o f Relief without contnbutmg their
·th·
f I d
rece1 1
share of responsibility. The geographical location o o ges w1 tn our
Grand Lodge jurisdiction has been converted to map form. These colored

179

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

ma~s make easily discernib le the non-mem ber lodges o f Boards of

mitted by our nineteen Boards of Relief. we ask your brief indulgen ce
in the following condense d statistics covering their operation s during
the Masonic Year ended June 30, 1964 :

178

Reli~f and have been useful instrume nts in the study and analysis of

ser_v1ces rendered by Boards of Relie f within their territoria l environm ent,
It is hoped tha! b?" i_ne~ns of our visitation s and addresse s to lodges
througho ut the JUnsd1chon that they will be encourag ed to join existing
Boards of Relief or form new Boards.
A Board of Relie.f is .no_t an autonom ous organiza tion, each lodge
has equa.l re.Presen tation m its governm ent and operation s. A program
such as mshtuted will also serve a two-fold purpose. It will offer the
average ~ason, "the sideliner ." an opportun ity to actively participa te
and practice Masonry in its various facets, for where. my Brethren , can
th~ tangibl.e evidence of Masonry practiced out of the Lodge be so
e~1dent as 1? a Board of Relief. It is regrettab le that s pace does not permit the settmg forth of specific instances of the heart-ren ding example s
of blessed relief.
BOARDS OF RELIEF

Hi~torically. the Boards of Relief have come a long way since the

formatm n of our Grand Lodge and the establish ment of our first Board
of Relief in San Francisco in 1856. We now maintain and operate ninete~n Boards of Relief composed o f 350 active and enthusia stic lodges
with an aggregat e members hip of 150,638. F ive of the Boards also operate Employm ent Bureaus.
~he contin.ued 1:°igration into Californ ia with its accompa nied proport10? of so1ournm g Brethren , together with the much publicize d
recession througho ut the country have caused consider able increased
activities in our Boards of Relief and Employm ent Bureaus. Notwith s~anding this a~ditio.nal work that has been thrust upon them they have
discharg ed their duties promptly and without discord. It is the unselfish
labors .of ~hese dedicate d Masons, who give so generous ly and untiringl y
of their time ~nd. abilities to minister to the needs of our sojournin g
Brethere n. their widows and orphans. with kindness and compass ion, and
at levels of economy and efficiency that have earned for them and all of
us an enviable reputatio n among all Grand Lodge jurisdicti ons.
The Board of Control assures you that relief as administ ered in this
jurisdicti on .conform s in every detail to our ancient and honored custom.
Lo~g pra~t1ce in administ ration of relief has permitted us to develop
busmess-h~e methods without distractin g from proper consider ation,
unde~~tandmg and c~urteous attitude in the granting of relief. Changin g
con~itions of prosperit y, depressio n, peace or wa r have not permitte d any
dev1at1on fro'.° our establish ed practices . A review of the rulings will
show that relief as administ ered within the jurisdicti on of Californ ia has
kept to the spirit and intent which our ancient Brethren so wisely and
carefully establish ed.
After carefully analyzin g the audited reports which have been sub-

Advance d for Relief... .............. ........................... $30,964.81
1.155
Funerals conducte d............ .......... ........................
,783
33
...
..............
..............
..............
Total calls made.....
1O.705
...........
Calls on the ·side.........................................
3,233
Investiga tions conducte d ......................................
0,405
I
..
..............
..............
..............
Relief calls made......
9.440
..
..............
Miscella neous calls made....................

It should be readily recogniz ed that these activities although of great
magnitud e are not even remotely associate d with financial assistanc e.
BLOOD BANKS

Many of our Boards of Relief operate Masonic Blood Banks. and
those which do not usually have some other ar rangeme nt for providin g
blood to Masons or their depende nts wh en necessar y. The following
figures indicate the extent of our blood donation activities during the past
year.
Units of blood donated............ ................................. . 3,443
Units of blood withdraw n........................................ 3,457
The actual cost. in savings to our Masonic family by this service
was $82,900.00.
EMPLOY MENT BUREAUS

The prime purpose of our Employm ent Bureaus is to aid worthy
Brethren , their widows and orphans in securing employm ent. thereby
assisting in maintain ing their morale and avoiding the necessity of direct
relief. The increasin g competit ion of our public placemen t agencies in
this field. as well as other factors, has occasion ed a decline in our placemen ts in the past year. and a correspo nding rise in the cost of each
placemen t. The Board of Control has been keeping a concerne d and
watchful eye on this trend for a number of years with the fear that if
it continue d, there might somewhe re come a time when the results in this
field might not justify their cost. The following figures briefly cover the
operatio ns of our Employm ent Bureaus during the past Masonic year:
Registere d for employm ent......... ................... .......... 4,958
758
Positions actually secured.. .. .............. ......................
Our Employm ent Burea us operate without charge either to employe r
or employee . Had fees been charged on the basis of rate fixed for
commerc ial agencies , such employm ent opportun ities would have cost the
members of the Fraterni ty and their families $82,409.57.

180

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

APPRO PRIATI ONS

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON PUBL IC SCHO OLS

assist our
It has been a custom of this Grand Lodge to financially
Contr ol
of
Board
The
Emplo yment Burea us where deeme d exped ient.
by the
ted
reques
being
s
riation
has. made a carefu l analys is of the approp
ating
aggreg
tions
menda
recom
ing
follow
vanou s Burea us and makes the
year:
ic
Mason
t
curren
the
for
$13,509.00
East Bay................................................................ $3.697.00
Long Beach......................................................... ... 2.900.00
Los Angel es ..... .................... .............. .............. ... .. 1,000.0 0
San Diego .......... .................................................... 3.412.00
San Franc isco................................. ............ ......... 2.500.00
the ChairWe have referre d the matter of these approp riation s to
the Caliof
man of the Financ e Comm ittee as requir ed by Sectio n 265
fornia Mason ic Code.
REIMB URSEM ENTS TO MASO NIC BOARD S OF

RELIE F

no worth y
. It h~s long been the policy of this Grand Lodge that
jurisdi cour
in
suffer
shall
,
family
iate
immed
his
soiour nmg brothe r. or
decen t burial
tion for the necessities of life. or shall ha ve other than a
the brothe r's
of
upon his demise, regard less of the willin gness or ability
has in the
and
akes
undert
own Lodge to make us whole. Grand Lodge
ces. We
advan
e
verabl
unreco
such
for
past reimbu rsed Board s of Relief
4.00
$30,96
than
more
gh
althou
that
report
are most please d to again
have
s
monie
have been advan ced to sojour ners and their depen dents all
ts.
rsemen
reimbu
for
need
the
ing
obviat
y
thereb
,
repaid
been
during
The Board of Contr ol has receiv ed the utmos t coope ration
Grand
the
r.
Maste
Grand
ipful
Worsh
Most
the
from
r
this past yea
their
from
as
well
as
Secret ary and the Assist ant Grand Secret ary,
tance
assis
their
of
all
for
ul
officers and associ ates. We are most gratef
and their kindne sses.
Respe ctfully submi tted.
ARTHU R DvoRI N
IRVING MAGN ES
NORM AN E. HALE

JOHN M . SWAN
LESTE R S. McELW AIN

EXPIRA TION OF TERM OF OFFIC E OF BOARD OF

CONTR OL MEMB ERS:

Norm an E. Hale......... ................................................... 1964
Lester S. McElw ain ... ................. ..................... .......... .... .1964
Irving Magn es ................... ............................................. 1965
John M. Swan............ .................................................. .. 1965
Arthu r Dvori n ................... ........................................ ..... 1966

Referr ed to Comm ittee on Financ e.

To the Mo st Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of Califo
"THE

PUBL IC

SCHO OL -

AME RICA 'S

rnia:

FUTU RE."

The

sive theme
Grand Maste r enthus iastica lly adopte d this simple but impres
priate
appro
and
city
simpli
for Public Schoo ls Week , 1964. With equal
row
tomor
of
s
leader
the
.
..
"
:
directn ess he stated in his Procla mation
Albert
s
Charle
d
belove
late,
our
quoted
he
are in school today. " Also,
ls Week , who
Adams , Past Grand Mas ter and founde r of Public Schoo
depen ds the
ls
said forty-five years ago : " . .. upon our Public Schoo
racy ." Thus
democ
hope for the perpet uity of a free and untram meled
jurisdicGrand
the
hout
throug
m
was the stage set for a dynam ic progra
tion.
Week at
In a public statem ent issued just before Public Schoo ls
Gran d
ast
P
rren.
a
W
Earl
Justice
Chief
ittee,
the reques t of this Comm
s.
school
public
Maste r, said : "Ame rica's future is wrapp ed up with its
underbetter
be
and there is no instrum ent of govern ment that should
." With quostood or more closely observ ed tha n our educa tional system
imed its
procla
ii
Hawa
and
rnia
tation s such a s these. Mason ry in Califo
Public
The
.
stands
it
which
for
tions
positio n on one of the great institu
.
Future
Schoo l-Ame rica's
ittee on
To assess and summ arize this year's progra m your Comm
nding
outsta
Public Schoo ls olfers a list of twelve ackno wledg ments for
:
perfor mance . Special credit must go to the following
confid ence.
I. To the Grand Maste r, for leader ship, for unwav erin g
Octob er
from
and for unusually strong suppo rt. Where ver he appea red
ted
reitera
and
sized
throug h Public Sehoo ls Week in April. he empha
sup's
asonry
M
and
n.
missio
his person al suppo rt of this Comm ittee, its
port of Public Schools.
Mas2. To the Senior Grand Ward en. who repres ented the Grand
t,"
Paren
gent
Intelli
"The
nel,
pa
ion
ter on a South ern Califo rnia televis
visor.
Super
y
Count
es
Angel
Los
Debs,
t
appea ring with Brothe r Ernes
es C ounty
and Dr. C. C. Trillin gham, Super intend ent of Los Angel
sidelin es
the
from
Schoo ls. Your Chairm an was privile ged to observ e
en 's
Ward
Grand
Senior
the depth, the dignit y, and the eloque nce of the
presen tation on our behalf .
and the
3. To the Grand Secret ary, the Assist ant Grand Secret ary
ly
willing
detail
and
work
of
entire office staff. They tackle d new burden s
and efficiently.
E. C ole.
4. To our former Comm ittee Chairm an, Worsh ipful Claud e
He gave loyalt y, help and suppo rt.
ent of
5. To the office of Dr. Max Rafferty, Califo rnia Super intend
promiwas
m
progra
Our
Public Instru ction and Direct or of Educa tion.
official pubnently covere d in two issues of California Educa tion . the
tion.
Educa
of
licatio n of the State Depar tment
~I

182

6. To. the California T eachers Association. Among other publicity
they published a full-pag e Public Schools Week announcement in th
Los Angeles Times. including the Grand Ma ster's picture with his Proc~
la mation in full and The Chief Justice's picture with his public state ment.
7. To the California Association of Sc hool Administrato rs. At their
a nnual convention in San Francisco. at tended by school officials from
all o.v~r the State. they invited your Committee Chairman to sit by the
presiding officer and they presented him from the rostrum.
8. To the loca l School Districts . Boards and Administrators, from
wh~se support we gain tremendous strength. At their request for s tanda rdized Public Schools Week dates. recognizing that planning for April
s tarts at least a year ahead. your Committee was pleased to establish
the following rule until it may be changed by later authority:
Public Schools W eek. which extends from Monday throu gh Friday.
sha ll be the week which ends on the last Friday in April.
9. To the Inspectors. Masters. W ardens. Secretaries and particula rly the local Public Schools Chairmen and their Committees. Also. to
Scottish Rite. York Rite and other related Bodies. Our files contain
voluminous evidence of dedicated work performed in virtually every part
of the Grand jurisdiction . Here so much of the credit belongs.
I 0. To the M asons o f Hawaii. Their impressive sound film on Publ~c Schools. which all are invited to see during the Annual Communication . demonstrates what a stronghold we have in the fiftieth Sta te.
11. To the countless volunteer Masons w ho must remain unnamed
because it would be impossible to do justice to them all:
tho:se who had the ingenuity to arrange for the Grand Lodge to be
mv1t:d to put on School Dedication a nd Cornerstone Laying Ceremomes;
the founders and tireless helpers on our Public Schools W eek Poster
Program, not. to mention the officials and students at Los Angeles
Trade-T echnical College w here the posters are desig ned and produced;
those who prepared a nd presented Rad io and T .V. copy in the
metropolitan areas:
those who arranged for Public Schools imprints on milk cartons and
stamp cancellations on public utility billings;
those who obtained Proclamations from Mayors and public bodies;
those who presented certificates and awards to teachers and students;
those who arranged poster displays on municipa l buses and in store
w indow s;
those who planned a ll the interesting events to bring our progra m
be fore the public;
and those who prepared exhibits for display at the Annua l Communication.

183

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEED!NGS OF THE

12. Finally, to the Masons everywhere who attended Public Schoo~s
visitations with their wives a nd children, paused to greet and comphrnen t a student, grasped the hand of a principal or te~ch~r . and let .•t
be known that Local Lodge Number So-and-So takes pride m Masonry s
sponsorship of Public Schools W eek.
Brethren of the Grand Lodge. these twelve groups of acknowledgments tell our story for 1964-from the Grand Master through all the
M asonic and other officials to the individua l Mason himself-and there
our case rests. Public Schools W eek is the product of the interes t and
effort of Masons everywhere.
Your retir ing Chairman joins each member o f this Committee in
saluting and thanking the individua l Mason. His _energy confirms. o~r
conviction-that we do indeed s tand for: The Public School-Americas
future .

Respectfully submitted.

JOH N F. PORTER
HALLET E . MEILICKE
GEORGE H IATT
JosEPH V. ANTISTA
CHESTER W. K 1M BALL
EDMUN D T . MANWELL
ALLAN CURRY
LAMAR L. HILL
WILLIAM DEWGAW
PHI LIP E . WATSON

EARL VANVORST
KIPPEN, JR.
CHARLES
ROGERS
RICH.ARD
Y OUNG
BU RTO N

c.

c.

o.

SAM R osKA

Referred to Committee on F inance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The records of the Grand Secretary's office reflect that many of the
Lodges are not shown as having adopted and submitted for approval a
copy of the Uniform Code o f By-Laws. T his was pointe~ ~ ut !n the
1963 report of this Committee. We urge that these defic1enc1es ~e
remedied by prompt action on the part of those involved. Toward this
end . correspondence is being continued with the individual Lodges , a.nd
we take this means of expressing our appreciation to those Lodges whic h
have com pleted the requested remedial a ction. This program will be
continued in the interest of the advantages which will result to the
Lodges themselves and to the supplying of complete records in the files
of the Grand Secretary's office.
F rom the standpoint of the Lodges, this procedure affords them the
advantage of having on file a consolidated record of the several details
of Stated Meeting dates. fees , dues and emergency relief provisions
under which they are currently operating.
As covered in the 1963 report, the staff of the G rand Lodge office
is following an effective routine of promptly reviewing each item of
by-laws adop tion as received and advising the Lodge concerned of any

184

185

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

discrepancies or misunderstandings in order to afford prompt approval
of the provisions adopted.
Your Committee is deeply grateful for the courteous and effective
assistance thus rendered.
The items reviewed since the last Annual Communication are summarized as follows:

Canoga No. 611, to $18.00; Neptune No. 619, to $20.00: Point Lorna
No. 620, to $18.00; Lamanda Park No. 627, to $20.00: Monte Vista No.
655. to $18.00: Citro! No. 656, to $20.00: Oildale No. 688. to $18.00:
Bixby Knolls No. 699. to $20.00; Home No. 721. to $20.00: Oasis of
Mara No. 735, to $20.00; Mother Colony No. 750, to $18.00; Bay Cla ire
Vista No. 799. to $18.00; The Gabilan No. 803, to $24.00: Mount Baldy
U.D., to $18.00.
Changing date of Stated Meetin g: Pentalpha No. 202; Sunnyvale
No. 511 ; C ovenant No. 527; Utopia N o. 537; Scepter No. 808; Willia m
B. Ogden U.D.; Manhattan U.D.; Southern California Research.
Provision for Legal Holidays: Silver Gate N o. 296; Alis?! No. 321;
Willits No. 365; Las Palmas No. 366; Artesia No. 377; Redwood
Empire No. 683; Los Alamitos No. 809; No. California Research.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Pentalpha No. 202, South Wes t
No. 283; Yorba Linda No. 469; Garvanza No. 492; Utopia No. 537;
Elmhurst No. 610.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Suisun No. 55; Henry Clay No. 95:
Vacaville No. 134; San Benito No. 211 ; Oak Grove No. 215: Kin g
Solomon's Seaport No. 260; Maxwell N o. 288: F allbrook No. 317;
Artesia No. 377: Orosi No. 383: Veritas-Jonatha n No. 545; Baldwin
Park No. 660; Dos Palos No. 681; Avenal No. 772: William B. Ogden
U.D.; Manhattan U .0.; Great Lights U .D.; Frank S. Land Ll.D.; M<1r
Vista U.D.
Charity Provision: Oceanside No. 381; Harbor No . 502; West
Covina No. 758.

Adoption of Uniform Code ............................... . 19 Lodges
Changing Date of Stated Meeting ................... . 8 Lodges
Changing Time of Stated Meeting ................. . 6 Lodges
Provision for Legal Holidays......... .................. . 7 Lodges
Increasing Fees ................................................. . 10 Lodges
Decreasing Fees ................................................. . I Lodge
Fixing Affiliation Fee ........................................ 1 Lodge
Increasing Affiliation Fee.................................. 1 Lodge
Rescinding Affiliation Fee............................... . 7 Lodges
Increasing Dues .................................................. 39 Lodges
Re Charity Committee...................................... 3 Lodges
Change of Meeting Place................................. . 15 Lodges
117 Lodges
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fee: Los Angeles No. 42, to $150.00; San Jacinto No. 338,
to $65.00; Upland No. 419, to $90.00; Chino Valley No. 427, to $90.00;
Sunnyvale No. 511, to $150.00; Neptune No. 619, to $125.00; Point
Loma No. 620 to $120.00; Lamanda Park No. 627, to $115.00; George
E. Tutt No. 722. to $100.00; Bay Claire Vista No. 799, to $100.00.
Decreasing fee: Blackmer No. 442, to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Lamanda Park No. 627, to $20.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Bay Claire Vista No. 799, to $2.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Hawaiian No. 21; Joppa No. 508; Point
Loma No. 620: Castro Valley No. 713; Acalanes No. 723; Oakwood
No. 743; Simi Valley No. 806.
Increasing dues: Trinity No. 27, to $18.00; Los Angeles No. 42, to
$18.00; Crescent No. 45, to $20.00; Rose's Bar No. 89. to $15.00; Concord No. 117, to $18.00: Elk Grove No. 173, to $18.00; Arbuckle No.
182. to 18.00; Pentalpha No. 202. to $20.00; Janesville No. 232, to
$18.00; Guadalupe No. 237, to $15.00; Hesperian No. 264, to $15.00;
Pasadena No. 272, to $20.00; Oakdale No. 275, to $18.00: Mount
Shasta No. 281 , to $18.00; Norwalk No. 315, to $50.00; Corona No.
324, to $20.00; Covina No. 334, to $18.00; San Jacinto No. 338, to
$18.00; Pinole No. 353, to $18.00; Silver Trowel No. 415, to $18.00;
Upland No. 419, to $18.00; Park No. 449, to $18.00; Coachella No. 476.
to $20.00: Corcoran No. 490, to $18.00; El Segundo No. 507, to $18.00:

RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Covelo No. 231; Palestine No. 351; Uni~
versity No. 394; Glendora No. 404; Capital C ity No. 499: Sunnyvale
No. 511; Covenant No. 527; Utopia No. 537; Hermosa No. 557: Victo r~
ville No. 634; Indian Wells Valley No. 691; Kit Carson No. 734; Tyre
No. 741; Oak Plains No. 789: Manhattan U.D.
Your Committee moves the approval of the items reviewed as listed
herein above and the adoption of this report.

Respectfully submitted.
HENRY D. OLIPH ANT
ALDEN J . FULKERSON
R. AYNE FILLPOT
EDGAR E. CHOATE, JR .

w

Adopted.

V1RL BENNEHOFF
CHARLES BECKER
GORDON H. ARMSTRONG

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON COMMERCI ALISM
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
For the past few years this report has commenced substa ntially as
follows: "Your Committee on Commercialism is most pleased to report
that infractions of our laws, rules. and regulations continue to lessen in
scope, seriousness and number."
This report reflects no change from recent years. True there have
been some instances, where because of possible lack of direction by
responsible officers or thru inadvertence infractions have occurred. In
only one instance this year was a constituent Lodge involved; the principal offenders being appendant organizations having female members.
The excuse most frequently given being "lack of knowledge" from
which it is deduced that where a change in officers occurs. the outgoing
fail to pass on to the incoming, our regulations.
The Concordant OrganiZiltions have been most cooperative in seeking advice and clearance in regard to projects which they have had in
mind.
As to appendant groups we have found the severa l Shrine Temples
in the jurisdiction generally anxious to cooperate. A number of them
have met with us on occasion to discuss their ideas and problems, which
have to a large extent been worked out with reasonable satisfaction.
The football games and the other sporting events continue to be operated
within our regulations. and the certified audits which are received indicate costs within reason and a good return to the hospitals.
Last year's report mentioned a cemetery which had in its name the
word "Masonic" and which gradually thru the passing years had lost
its fraternal characteristics and was open to non-Masons. At its annual
meeting earlier this year this "Maso~ic Cemetery Association" voted to
change its name to "Acacia Memorial Park Association." There is another such "Masonic" cemetery now under our investigation, having
been given to this Committee only recently.
Because there had been no instances reporting activities of so-called
"Masonic" magazines published in this jurisdiction your committee
assumed that this problem was under control. but no such luck, a few
weeks ago we were jolted out of our complacency when our attention
was brought to the story of a newly obligated Entered Apprentice who
paid $300.00 to a salesman for an ad in one such publication. Upon
reflection this brother spoke to another brother who "set him straight"
and recommended that payment of the check be stopped. It was found
that the check had been cashed at once. We are now endeavoring to
develop further information to see if there is any avenue open thru
which we may be able to help this brother recover his money.
We have been involved in matters regarding so-called "Masonic"

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

publications originating in other Grand Jurisdictions. One such publication. the "Masonic Directory." privately owned in the mid-West, carries
lists of Grand Lodge officers and lis ts of concordant and appendant
groups together with pictures of many of these persons. The same long
distance phone and high pressure tactics selling advertising that we are
familiar with are used. This activity was called to the attention of the
Grand Jurisdiction in which the publication originates. In reply we were
advised "The Directory is not recognized nor authorized . . . but has
been tolerated for several years. Their method of solicitation is very
crude and high pressure selling by phone only"; a nasty condition
requires drastic action and not toleration.
Another such publication from the Northwest had a representative
in this state who was phoning banks in the State of Kansas using h igh
pressure and misrepresentin g the ownership. We received a com pla int
from the Grand Lodge of Kansas. A member of this Committee living
in the vicinity of this representative took this matter in hand and in his
investigation learned that the representative had suddenly moved to
another state.
An old and well known magazine specializing in mechanical matters
recently carried an ad reading "Masons (in very heavy lettering) send
today for a free catalogue of Masonic and Eastern Star books and
rituals." Upon communicating with the Grand Jurisdiction in which the
advertiser was located the Grand Master, in his reply, thanked us for
having brought the ad to his attention stating that he would take whatever corrective measures necessary.
A nationally published financia l newspaper carried an ad from a
person in New England offering a "3 inch Tubal Cane (two words
separated) for your car trunk or numberplate." This ad was called to
the attention of the Grand Lodge having jurisdiction in the area with
the request that the individual be contacted and asked to cease and
desist from such advertising in this Grand Jurisdiction.
In another instance the owner of a golf putting stand in Southern
California received a wire asking him to phone collect a party in Chicago
in regard to his putting stand. The person to whom he spoke stated he
represented the Masonic order and "wanted him to advertise in its
national magazine going to all Masonic Lodges throughout the country'':
cost of ad. $135.00. The stand own er claims no authorization was given ,
but he nevertheless became involved and was seeking our help and
counsel. Obviously under the circumstances there was very little we
could say or do.
For the past few years we have had problems with two so-called
"Masonic" periodicals. The Masonic Review Digest who used a Vancouver, B. C. address and The Freemason published in Oregon. We
recently were informed that the Post Office Department issued a fraud
order against these two publications which prevents any mail, including

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

at Vanco uver,
remit tance s from being delivered to those maga zines
B. C.. Cana da.
a numb er f
In recen t month s we have had called to our attent ion
Gr ot
, Pasad ena, extoll ing a book "The
folders from the Acaci a Press
ea
.
J
h
"B
from
b
book,
.
This
M essag e.. writte n y
rot er ohn E. Richa rdson ."
ns who are seekin g
the folde: , is suppo sed to be the answe r for Maso
years ago th
some
away
d
passe
furthe r light. Broth er Richa rdson
there s~em~
years
few
Every
n.
Maso
led
prese nt Publis her is an expel
Study
craft.
the
of
ers
memb
by
ed
receiv
lets
~o be a flood of these p~mph
disto
done
be
is under way to ~etermme wheth er or not anythg.ing may
mailin
ce
nuisan
coura ge the contm uance of this
is nonet heless
At th~ risk of. u~ing a hackn eyed expre ssion but which
ntativ e check
preve
a
true. contm ued vigila nce is most neces sary to keep
violat e our
dness
cusse
or
of those who throu gh ~gnorance, adver tence
t10ns.
regula
and
laws. rules
on our Grand
Durin g the past year we have found it neces sary to call
assist ance.
for
ctors
Inspe
n
certai
Secre tary..other Gran d Officers and
gratef ul
our
el,
couns
and
time
their
of
All have given most gener ously
thank s to each of them.
, our Grand Maste r, our
T? the Most Wo.rshipful Elmer W. Heald
m. his kindly assist proble
our
of
ing
stand
especial thank s for hrs under
and worke d under
a~ce and advice. we feel it an honor to have serve d
him.

REPO RT OF INVE STM ENT COM MIT IEE

188

Respe ctfull y submi tted.
V1NcE NT P. McM uRoo
}ACK L. BLAIN E
WILLA RD A . BRAA SCH
ALBE RT R. BENN ISON
NESS
HARV EY A. HARK

Refer red to Comm ittee on Finan ce.

189

rnia:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A. M. of Califo
year of activi ty.
The Inves tment Comm ittee concl udes its fourte enth
g June 30.
endin
s
month
e
twelv
the
for
t
repor
and herew ith rende rs its
round
backg
ical
1964. Each year's repor t gives a certai n amou nt of histor
d
Gran
ing
attend
those
and basic inform ation, which shoul d be helpfu l to
Lodge for the first time.
the passin g of
It is with great regret that we make note of and record
Wors hipfu l
Most
ittee
one of the most value d memb ers of our Comm
of the outone
indeed
was
He
Arthu r M . Warr en, Gran d Treas urer.
es which
servic
The
nity.
frater
our
of
ers
stand ing and dedic ated memb
remai n
will
ty
activi
of
years
many
his
over
Lodge
he rende red to Grand
as a living tribut e to his unselfish devot ion to Maso nry.
ed by and for
The Prude nt Man Rule in modified form was adopt
ituent Lodge s a
Grand Lodge at the 1950 Comm unica tion. For the Const
Prude nt Man Rule was adopt ed in 1951.
M. of Califo rnia
The Inves tment Comm ittee of Grand Lodge F. & A.
able funds of
invest
was formed for the purpo se of admin isterin g the
the Maso nic
and
rnia,
Grand Lodge , the Maso nic Home s of Califo
Home s Endo wmen t Fund .
of Const ituent
The Comm ittee does not super vise the invest ments
ment advis or
invest
its
of
es
Lodges, but Grand Lodge make s the servic
this service.
of
use
g
makin
now
are
s
availa ble to the Lodge s. Many Lodge
Lodge s
ituent
Const
on
t
repor
y's
Mood
The follow ing)s taken from
for the year endin g June 30, 1964:
137
Numb er of active Lodge s........
Numb er of Lodg es reque sting
7 (on a quarte rly basis)
review s ···-··········---·············-·
7,479
$8,12
....
value
lio
Appro ximat e portfo
Avera ge marke t value of each
portfo lio .............................. $59,3 20
143
Numb er of inacti ve Lodges......
not respo nded to Mood y's
have
(inact ive Lodge s are those which
review )
for
list
date
to
periodic reque st for an up
30/64
June
to
1963
May
For the 13 month s from
........ 254
tions
unica
comm
n
writte
other
and
made
Revie ws
....... 33
.........
.........
Telep hone discus sions .................. .........
.. ... .. ·1
.........
.........
.........
Office visits ....................................
makin g full
are
s
Lodge
the
that
The Inves tment Comm ittee hopes
e.
servic
ble
and contin uing use of this valua
Treas urer, the
The Investment Comm ittee is comp osed of the Grand
Comm ittee.
ce
Finan
Assis tant Gran d Treas urer, the Chair man of the
Trus tee of
a
or
ees
Trust
of
the Presid ent of the Maso nic Home s Board
nic Home s
Maso
the
of
man
Chair
the
that Board desig nated by him. and

190

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIF ORNIA

PROCE EDING S OF THE

desig nated by him Th
Endo wme nt Boar d or a memb er of that Boar d
e
·
:
are
ittee
prese nt memb ers of the Inves tmen t Comm
urer
Treas
d
Gran
.
........
Paul A. Pflue ger. P.M ................. .........
ce Comm ittee
Fran k Harw ell. Jr .. P.G.M ....... Chair man, Finan
of Trust ees
Board
dent,
Presi
..
...
........
E. V. Stew art. Jr., P.G.M
es
Hom
nic
Maso
h M
J o n . Gord on, P.M ........ ............. Chair man, Endo wmen t Board
., acts as Secre t
The Gran d Secre tary. Edwa rd H. Siem s, P.G.M
ary
of the Comm ittee.
with respe ct to inBy Ordin ance, unde r Secti on 246 ( formecly 86)
(form erly 152.] )
vestme~t ~f Gran d Lodg e funds . and Secti on 403
the following provi sions
respe~hng mvest~ents by Cons tituen t Lodg es,
Secti ons 246 and 403'
as briefe d. preva iled as of June 30, 1964. (See

C.M .C.):

•

for inves tmen t mu s t
_GRO UP I. At least 20% of the funds available
be m:
A) Cash and/ or bank accou nts.
B) Oblig ation s of the Unite d State s.
its political subC) .~~ligations of the State of Calif ornia and
d1v1s1ons.
ts for savin g!
D) Such_ othe~ sec~rities as are legal inves tmen ).
1959
ed
mend
a
(as
ii
Hawa
or
banks m C alifornia
GRO UP II. Up to 20% may be inves ted in:
or will be fully
A) C?ther evidenc.es of indeb tedne ss, which are
the Sehst~~ and regis tered on an excha nge regis tered with
ities
Secur
nal
curiti es and Exch ange Commission as a Natio
innot
shall
nt
reme
Exch ange, excep t that this listin g requi
).
1955
(
s
issue
trust
clude railro ad equip ment
listed and regis B) Prefe rred s tocks . which are or will be fully
and Extered on an excha nge regis tered with the Secur ities
exange,
Exch
chan ge Comm!s~ion as a Natio nal Secur ities
shall
stock
rred
prefe
of
n
cept that full ltstmg and regis tratio
corpo ra~ot ~e r:qui red when ever the common stock of the
tered
regis
and
listed
fully
is
stock
rred
t10n 1ssum g such prefe
is
stock
rred
prefe
such
that
ded
provi
nge.
on s uch an excha
).
trade d on s uch an excha nge ( 1956
s amen ded 1959 )
GRO UP III. Upto 60% mayb e inves ted in: (A
and regis tered on
A) Comm on stock s. which must be fully listed
and Exch ange
ities
secur
an exc.ha.nge register~d with the
excep t that
ange.
Exch
ities
Secur
Comm ission as a Natm nal
insur ance
and
bank
to
apply
not
shall
nt
this listin g requi reme
stock s.
B) Share s of inves tmen t trusts.
or State Savin gs
C) Share s and/ or certificates of insur ed Fede ral
amou nt inThe
959).
1
and
and Loa n Assoc iation s ( 1957

191

the amou nt
veste d in any one Assoc iation shall not excee d
cover ed by insur ance.
II and III. the Ordi With respe ct to the autho rity to inves t in Grou ps
howe ver, shall be made
nance reads as follows: "No such inves tmen ts.
total mark et value of
the
which at the time of purch ase will resul t in
twen ty per cent or
ding
excee
n
the secur ities ·re ferred to in this sectio
value of all the
rket
ma
total
the
of
be)
sixty per cent (as the case may
point being
olling
contr
the
"
held,
ities
secur
and
cash, bank accou nts
ps II and
Grou
in
ted
that there canno t be more than 20% or 60 % inves
in Grou p
ted
inves
be
e
III. at the time of purchase. ( 100% may of cours
I).
ts were passe d with
At the 1959 Comm unica tion certa in amen dmen
in Grou ps I and III.
ted
inves
be
respe ct to the perce ntage s whic h could
ased to 60 %. In
incre
was
III
p
Grou
and
Grou p I was reduc ed to 20%
tion to the following ,
this conne ction . it is very impo rtant to call atten
on Jurisp ruden ce and
which is conta ined in the Repo rts of the Comm ittee
the Comm ittee on Polic y and Gene ral Purpo ses:
calls atten tion to the
''You r Comm ittee on Jurisp ruden ce respe ctfull y
and is not a direc only
issive
fact that this propo sed amen dmen t is perm
tmen ts unde r the
inves
ng
maki
in
tive. Grea t care shoul d be exerc ised
"
t.
dmen
amen
sed
autho rity grant ed by this propo
recom mend s the
"You r Comm ittee on Polic y and Gene ral Purp oses
the Lodg es:
to
adopt ion of Resolution D-7 but with this admo nition
is not sugge sted
and
"A) The autho rity grant ed is permissive only
tions.
condi
mic
as an inves tmen t guide unde r prese nt econo
the Lodg es be most
" B) Tha t in maki ng inves tmen ts in Grou p III
rity.
autho
ional
addit
this
of
ntage
circu mspe ct in takin g adva
of the last
sions
provi
the
with
ly
comp
ly
strict
they
"C) And that
and heed
with
lt
consu
parag raph of Secti on 403 of our Ordin ances . to
Lodg e.
nd
Gra
by
used
ors
the advic e of the profe ssion al inves tmen t advis
to the
e
charg
ut
witho
es
Lodg
t
and made available to the Cons tituen
individual Lodg e.''
of the Comm ittees
The above comm ents are included in the repor ts
s.
eding
Proce
959
I
the
of
282
as they appea r on page
ded, as follows:
At the I 960 Comm unica tion Secti on 403 was amen
to be fully listed
"The provisions of this sectio n requi ring secur ities
the Secur ities and Exand regis tered on an excha nge regis tered wit h
ange. shall not apply
chang e Commission as a Natio nal Secur ities Exch
confined to Lodg es
is
tion
excep
to the H onolulu Stock Exch ange . This
Exch ange is not
Stock
lulu
Hono
locat ed in the State of Hawa ii." (The
Secur ities and
the
by
ed
defin
as
ange.
Exch
as yet a Natio nal Secur ities
Exch ange Comm ission ).
met regul arly every
Since its formation the Investmen t Comm ittee has
ess of the Comm ittee
three months. Betw een quart erly meeti ngs the busin
is cond ucted by corre spond ence or telephone.

192

· As s ta ted, we have just completed fourteen years of operations. Th
following is a summary of the consolidated market value of securitiee
owned, plus in vestable cash, together with a record of doll;lr income 0 ~
these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950. and for each
succeeding fiscal year, through June 30, 1964, including the percentag
e
income on the market value of each year.
CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE OF SECU RITIES AND I NVEST.ABLE CASH•
(BY GROUPS AND TOTALS) AND DOLLAR INCOME (In Partnthuea)

foeoa..

Dstu
11 / 80/6-0
8/18/51
8/4/52
7 /31/63
7/31/54
7 / 11/ 66
7/ 31/ 66
6/ 30/ 67••
6/ 80/ 68
9/ 80/ 69
9/ 30/ 60
6/80/ Sl
6/ 80/&2
6/ 30/68
6/30/6'

GRO U P I
A1nount
%
92.4
$5,658.329
($94,280 )
7G.3
4, 6(i8,243
($74,0SO
63.4
4,218,637
($85,827)
63.6
4,693.1 20
($102,381)
51.8
4,361,294
($95,268)
5,630,942
56.5
($126,621)
64. l
6,011.460
($1 67,122)
46.0
6,205.935
($153.234)
43. 1
6.397,547
(Sl74,G62)
48. 3
8,664,916
($242,713)
7,249,780
63.8
($282,674)
41 . 4
e,Hl,788
(1246,625 )
4,835,116
so.•
($169.025)
34.8
7.130.955
($256,948)
52.2
10,830,679
($418, 720)

GROUP II
Amount

s 102, l 40

($4,262)
889,000
($16,6!i2)
574,096
($20,832)
H9,527
($19,394)
77 1,147
($27,963)
678,610
($24,394)
1,696,562
(S6S.588)
1,928,381
($89.399)
Z,263,739
($96,946)
1,854,635
($37.858)
:2,879,050
($117,031)
2,961,093
($137.967)
8,101,090
($147.489)
1,522,536
($65,373)
694,478
($80,325)

%
1.7
6.5
8.7

GRO UP Ill
Amount
%
6 .9
364,003
($22.0:.GJ
17 .2
1,025.725
($6 3,203 )
27.9
1,856.121

'

($~8.614)

u
9.2
S.7

2 .208,R58
($112,815)
3,278.814
($152,076)
3,820.0~2

13.S

($158,330)
3,505,096
($160,697)
4.192,291
(&197 ,673)
4 ,878,839
(S225,S40)
6.270,217

17.7

3,837,628

14.4
17.0
17.9

($186,8 5~)

19.6
7.6
3.4

S.589,011
($221,222)
7.973,485
($823,243)
11,068 .171
($376,160)
9,188,969
($289.416)

l'orcen._
TOTALS
airo
Amount
Reta"'+
• 6.124,471
1.97
($120 .598 )
5,972 ,968
2.58
($163,939)
6 .648,854
3.09
(Sio5,27~)

29.9
89.0
87.8
81.5
37.0
88.9
38.2
28.6

!Sl•2.2n>
18.1

193

t;RAND LODGE OP CALIPORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

40.5
GO.l
67.6

44.4

7.381,805
a.21
($236,590)
8,401,256
a.2a
($275,296)
10,129,644
a.01
(S309,345)
ll.IJS,108
S.34
($S71 ,407)
11.326,608
3.92
($440 ,306)
12,629,625
8.97
( $496,948)
13. 789,767
3.76
($517,426)
Ja,466,458ft 4.02
($541,838 )
16,28l ,8V2
3.71
($605,814 l
15,909 ,690:
4.02
( $63~.757)
19,121,r.6"U 3.64
($697,471)
20.714,026• .. 3.57
U73B,717)

•SaYln111 bank depooita wlth Interest earntd thereon are in c luded In GronD l.
+On marke~ yafue.
..Fi1e11I 1ear cbana-ed to .Tune ao.
ttThc amount o f $1,130.000 wu withdrawn from the Maaonlc H omes General Fund and the
amount of $86,000 from the Flint Fund, to PRJ' for the :new h~11 i tal at Decoto (total $1 215 OOG
'
'
withdrawn).
fl'he amount of $128,000 wae \Vithdrswn from the Grand Lodge portfo lio to fund the unpaid
halance of Gr a nd Lodi:e Pension Fund.
amount of $354,00<> waa withdrawn f rom the Gent'tal Fund for new dormitory at Union
City.
... The amount of $989 .0ZS.52 was withdrawn from the GenHal Fund as part 1>ayment for the nt'W
Ch11rlea Albert Adal118 Hali at Union City (Decoto).

ip,,e

During the past year securities were sold at prices yielding $1.235,052.29 more than their cost. thereby increasing the total asset value.
Since the inauguration of the Prudent M an Rule in 1950. this total
amounts to $4,402,865.90. Sales always rema in a part of capital assets,
and are never included in income total. With respect to the Endowment
Fund, no capital assets are ever withdrawn from this Fund.
Endowment Fund contributions made through Lodges amounted
to $783,339.94, for the year ended June 30, 1964. Other gifts and ·be~

quests for the Masonic Homes amounted to $473.976.45 (which also includes items other than stocks and bonds). The Masonic Homes Board
of Trus tees determines how these gifts and bequests are allocated-these
allocations are made in accordance with specific bequests, or in the absence of such , at the direction of the Trustees. The Endowment Fund
contributions remain in that Fund, and only the income is used.
The Charles Albert Adams H all situated at Union City ( Decoto),
which was referred to in the 1963 Investment Committee report, is nearing completion. This Hall is to house 91 additional residents. While the
total cost was estimated at $1.500.000, the amount of $939,023.52 was
withdrawn during the current year from the Masonic Homes of California General Fund, in addition to $354,000 which was withdrawn
during the previous year from the same fund, for the employees' dormitories at Union City.
May we also call attention to the fact that the total portfolio has increased since November, 1950. from $6.124 ,471 to $20,714,026, or about
238.22 9'c. and at the same time the income has increased from $120.598
to $738.717, or 512.54~c. As mentioned above. $1 .215.000 was withdrawn for the new Oecoto hospital in the year ending June 30, 1960:
$128,000 was withdrawn in the year ending June 30, 1962. to fund the
unpaid balance of the Grand Lodge Pension Fund: the amount of $354 .000 was withdrawn for the new dormitory a nd livi ng quarters for employees in the year ending June 30, 1963; a nd $939,023.52 was withdrawn in the current year ending June 30. 1964 for work on the Charles
Albert Adams Hall.
The following is the consolidated investment portfolio of Grand
Lodge. with market values as of June 30, 1964. divided into the various
groups. and showing the percentage of each group. together with the
income return for each group on the market value.
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONSOLIDATED PORTFOLIO - JUNE 30, 1964
(Market Value••)
Income

Return on
M_.ket

790,896

$ 27,681

3.5%

U. S. Treasury ........................ 3,487,986
U. S. Agency ............................ 3,461,697
90,000
Municipals ..............................
Railroad Equipment .............. 3,000,000

125.936
142,488
3.050
119,565

GROUP I

Cash ..........................................$

Marktl
Value

P~rcent

Bonds:

Total Bonds ........................$10,039,683
TOTAL GROUP I .............. $10,830,579
GROUP II
Bonds:

52.2%

$391,039
$418,720

Miscellaneous ..........................$
Industrial conv . ......................

45,078
383,500

$ 2,401

Total Bonds ........................$
Preferred Stocks ....................... .

428,578
265,900

$ 18,963

TOTAL GROUP 11 ............ $

694,478

3.9%

16,562
11,362

3.4%

$ 30,325

4.4%

194

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GROUP III
Common Stocks:

P ublic Utility ..........................$ 1,746,383
Industrials .............................. 4, 793,348
Finance .................................... 2,649,238
TOTAL GROUP III
Commons .......................... $ 9,188,969
TOTAL SECURITIES ...... $19,923,130
GRAND TOTAL ................$20,714,026

$ 67,025
156,761
65,886
44.4 %
100.0%

$289 ,416
$711,036
$738,717

3.2%
3.6%
3.6%

( .. I n the above schedule the railroa<l eq u ivment tru• t losues are figured a t p nr. If they we re
fi g ured a t market. t he total Vl\l ue of the Portfo lio would be l\Pl>l"Oximnt<!ly $36.395.00 less t h an the
a bove figure of i 2o,714,026. )

We have three principal accounts, the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund, the Masonic H omes General Fund, Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
California, (plus the several smaller funds of the Masonic Homes). The
record is kept by Moody's as one total fund, thereby reducing our cost
very materially. However, Grand Lodge records are kept separate as to
each fund, as are the records of the Inves tment Committee. As a matter of
interest, we list here the market value o f the portfolios of the individual
funds, together with the income and yield at market prices:
Total Value*

Income*

Yield•

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund................$15,841,579.15 $573,824.09 3.62%
Masonic Homes General Fund........................ 3,315,192.54 105,246.44 3.16
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California..........
934,746.28
35,996. 10 3.85
Masonic Homes F lint Fund............................
377,956.62
13,472.35 3.56
Masonic Homes Luckenbach Fund................
74,995.93
2,952.50 3.94
Masonic Homes Brigham Scholarship Fund
42,155.00
1,712.50 3.98
Masonic Homes Residents' Reserve Fund. ...
55,303.25
2,166.85 3.92
Masonic Homes Perine Fund........... ...............
17,918.75
630.00 3.52
Masonic Homes Student Loan Fund............
18,472.38
763.50 3.94
Masonic Homes Wadleigh Fund....................
8,437.50
324.00 3.84
( •a s of June 30, 1964, including investable cas h. I nterest on savings a ccounts, investnble cash
o n ly, is figu red at 3¥..o/o. In t his table railroa d e<1uipment trust issues a re fig ured a t pr esent
market value. All of these fig ures e re as of J une 30, 1964, nnd the yield o n the investments would
vary during the year, d epe nding upon t he many fa cto rs which are involved.)

The Masonic H omes of California holds various Mason ic Temple
shares or certificates, listed as follows :
1 sh Santa Ana Masonic Temple Assn. Ltd. capital stoc k
3 sh Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton capital stock
9 sh Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Assn. capital stock
46 sh Masonic Hall Association of Alameda capital s tock
1 cert. of membership San Gabriel Masonic Temple Assn.
1 cert. for 10 memberships Rio Vista Masonic Temple Assn. Inc.
20 certs. Masonic Hall Association of Ontario
1 sh Richmond Masonic Temple Assn. captial stock
These evidences o f debt or certificates are owned by the M asonic
Homes of California. It would be apprecia ted if negotiations were undertaken by those Lodges or Temple A ssociations who could afford to redeem these certifica tes . The Investment Committee would greatly appreciate your consideration of this request. Just write to the Grand Secretary for further informa tion.
The Investment C ommittee thought that a case history of one transaction which was practically closed during the current year might be of
interest. In 1949 the Masonic Homes of California inherited among
other items from the estate of James McCandless, of Honolulu, a few

195

shares of Pioneer Properties, whose sole asset was a block of the capital
stock of R iver Farms Company of California. At that time we were
offered $7.500 for these Pioneer Properties shares, which was not accepted.
In 1951 Pioneer Properties was liquidated in kind, without income
taxes, and the Masonic Homes of Ca lifornia received 1629 shares of the
capita l stock of River Farms Company of California. At that time $30
per share was the prevailing price of River F arms stock. During the
year 1963, River Farms Compa ny's propertie~, situated in Yol.o an.cl
Colusa C ounties. were sold. and the Masonic H omes of Cahforma
General Fund received $218.90 per share, or a total of $356,588.10. During the years that we owned the R iver Farms shares, dividends totalling
$68,825.25 were also received. making a grand total of $424,413.35.
There will probably be a tag end of approximately $3,000 more to
come, when the corporation is fin ally completely liquidated.
The entire portfolio is listed in the Grand Treasurer's a nd Auditors'
Reports, and therefore is not included herein. The securities are held in
safekeeping for account of Grand Lodge by the Trust Dpartment of the
Crocker Citizens National Bank, at its One M ontgomery Street Office,
San Francicso.
We have had excellent attendance at our Investment Committee
meetings during this year, as has b een the case since this Committee was
organized.
Again we come to tha t portion of the Investment Committee report
when we try to s ummarize in fe w words the financial a nd investment outlook as we see it.
We are presently pursuing a more conservative course. as already
indicated by the figures. with the objective of obtaining the greatest
amount of protection for our funds, under conditions as they exist.
As we said last year, the problems do not diminish , but we are prepared to meet them as they arise . Fortunately, we can move swiftly.
which we have done when necessary.
W e again repeat that our course of action can be quite different from
that of the individual for a variety of rea sons. This sta tement is made so
as not to influence personal actions.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary and his staff. a nd my thanks to
the members of the Investment C ommittee for their wholehearted and
generous cooperation at all times.
Respectfully s ubmitted on behalf of the Inves tment Committee.
J o HN M. GORDON
FRANK HARWELL. JR.

E. v. STEWART, JR.
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Chairman

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

196

197

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
LODGE FINANCING

The committee again calls to your attention the importance of main taining the temples in proper order and repair. The brethren must
realize that they have an obligation not only to themselves and all of
those who use the facilities of their temples. but also a definite obligation
to the community to keep them in a well-ordered manner thereby con~
tinuing pace with the growth of the community in which they are a
part. So much can be done with Yery little financing and effort. We urge
you to return to your temples and view them inside and out with ~ritic~l
eyes with the purpose in mind of keeping them and the surroundings JI\
such condition that they will retain the respect and support of the community, which is so necessary and important for the growth and dignity
of our fraternity.
The committee further recommends that continued study be made of
the financial condition of the lodges relating to insurance and tax requirements. It is most important that the temples be properly insured in
order that all who have the benefit of its use may be protected from loss
by liability. fire. theft and other matters normally covered by sufficient
and proper protection. Also. the requirements to mainta'.n a tax exem_pt
status must be strictly adhered to in order to comply with the essential
requisites of state and federal tax laws so that no critici~m may. be
pointed to any lodge or temple association or the fra ternity allegmg
that they are disregarding the requirements of the law. We. as Masons.
who so strongly promote the American way of life must set an example
of this belief by conforming to the laws of the land.
The past year's activities of the committee are included in detail
in the following pages of this report and will be published in the

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of California:
It .is the intention of this report. submitted for your approval and
adoption, to reflect the activities of the Committee on Lodge Financin
~or the p~st year. A review of these activities indicates a considerabl~
increase m the construction. maintenance and operation of Masonic
t~mples over those of the preceding year . Further study of the activities
discloses ~ very definite improvement in the administration and conduct
of the business and financial affairs of Ma sonic temples. A review of the
ann~al financial statements submitted by the temple associations, as
required ~y Sectio~1 200 of the Masonic Code. shows continuing
progress m Masonic temple fiscal processes and controls. This has
resulted. in .inc.re~sed interest in the business a ffairs of the lodges throughout ~he JUnsd1ct1on and indicates that they are being managed in a most
efficient manner and that almost all of the lodges have achieved and are
maintaining a status of solvency.

Each year more and more lodges and temple associations are realizing the importance and necessity of establishing cash and depreciation
reserves that are so necessary to properly operate and maintain their
temples and to provide a fund for the replacement of the temples in the
f utu~·e. ~uri~g the past year the committee acted upon 115 specific
a_ppltcahons _m connection with the purchase of property. the construction. expansion, repairs. remodeling and other related matters required
for the successful operation of their lodg e facilities. The action of the
com mittee on these were as follows:

12 applications to incorporate Masonic temple associations for
the purpose of conducting the financia l and business affairs of the
lodges; 15 requests to purchase property for future temple sites; 12
ap~lications to _star_t construct ion on new Masonic temples; 19 applications for capital improvements. expansion, renovating and repairs;
28 ap~li~ations for the transfe.r of funds from the lodges to the temple
assoc1at1~ns to be expended for various purposes relating to temple
construction and maintenance; 19 applications to borrow funds; 3
applications to enter into satisfactory lease agreements; 7 applications
to purchase stock in temple associations and other various items;
this, together with other miscellaneous requests. required necessary
action of the committee in more than 135 proceedings. More than J 00
visitations were made to various lodges at their request and invitation to advise and counsel with them concerning problems of lodge
and temple association affairs. These visi tations. in all instances.
resulted in the solving of these problem s to the satisfaction of all
concerned.

proceeding s.
CRENSHAW MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted request to borrow $5.000 for the purpose of installing air conditioning facilities in the lodge room .
FRES NO MA SONIC COMPANY

Committee consent granted to purchase property located at Tuolumne
and L Streets at estimated price of $175.000 for the purpose of constrncting the new Fresno Masonic Temple.
M1ss10N LooGE MASONIC HALL AssonATtON

Amended application approved and consent granted to enter into
revised lease agreement.
PASADENA MASONIC TEMPLE Assoc1Ar10N

Consent granted request to expend $13.000 for the purpose of taking
the initial step in the improvement and renovation of the Pasadena
Masonic Temple.
PASADENA MAsoN1c TEMPLE Assoc1ATION

Application approved to proceed with "Phase Two" of the improve-

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ment and moder.nizat~on program in the Masonic Temple in the sum of
$23.000, a·s outlmed m said application.

YosEMITE LODGE No. 99
Consent granted request to expend approximately $6.500 for necessary repairs and remodeling on temple. This consent confirms and ratifies action of Temple Association prior to committee consent to do the
work and such consent granted with the understanding that no work be
done or expenditures made in the future without first securing consent
of the committee.
SoToYoME LODGE No. 123
Application approved to purchase property adjacent to lodge for
$8,500. plus costs; also to transfer $4 ,000 from lodge general funds to
assist in the purchase.
CLEAR LAKE LoDGE No. 183
Consent granted request to exchange property as outlined in application dated October 15, J 963. with the understanding that the property
acquired is to be used as the site for the new Masonic Temple of Clear
Lake Lodge.
OLIVET LODGE No. 205
Application approved to borrow $15,000 from Bank of America for
the purpose of improving and expanding present lodge and rental facil-

198

UNITED MASONIC T EMPLE Assoc1AT10N oF MODESTO
MoDESTO LoDGE No. 675
STANISLAUS LoDGE No. 206

Co~mittee consent granted application to incorporate the United
Masonic Temple Association consisting of the two above lodg es; also
~o transfer $250 from each of the lodges' funds to the Association when
mcorpora ted.
UNITED MASONIC TEMPLE Assoc1ATION oF MoDESTO
STANISLAUS LODGE No. 206
MoDESTO LoDGE No. 675
Application approved and consent granted to transfer $6.500 from
the general fun~s of ea~h Lodge to the Temple Association for the purpose of purchasmg a site for a new temple in Modesto.
TRINITY LoDGE No. 27

~ommittee ratified action previously taken by lodge to form a non-

profit temple association and the transfer of $1.000 from lodge funds
to the association in exchange for a regular membership in said amount.
FoRBESTOWN LoDGE No. 50

Ap~lication approved requesting consent to form the Forbestown
Masonic Ter_np!e Association and to transfer $1.000 from lodge funds
to said association when incorporated.
SANTA RosA LODGE No. 57
Application approved and consent granted to transfer $100.000 from
lodg ~ general funds to the Temple Association for the purpose of pur~h asmg a church property to be remodeled as the new M asonic T emple
m Santa Rosa.
SANTA R os A LODG E No. 57
Consent granted applica tion to incorporate th e Santa Rosa M a sonic
T emple ".'s~oci~tion ; also to transfer $1,000 from lodge general funds to
th~ assoc1a.ti~n m exchange for a regular membership in such amount in
said assoc1a t10n.
N o RTH S TAR LoDGE No. 91
Consent granted application to form North Star No. 9 1 Masonic
Temple Association; also consent to transfer $6,000 from lodge general
funds to the ass?cia tion in exchange for a regular membership in the
sta ted sum m said association.
HoRNITo s LoDGE No. 98
".'pplicatio? approved to purchase property adjacent to lodge for
required parkmg area and necessary temple expansion.

ities.
SAN BENITO LoDGE No. 21 I

Application approved as follows:
I. To transfer $3.000 from lodge funds to the Temple Association.
2. To borrow $5,000 from Hollister Branch. Bank of America.
Said funds to be used to repair the temple building in an estimated
amount of $11,016.
DowNEY LoDGE No. 220
Application approved to tra ns fer $25,000 from lodge fund s to the
Building Association for the cost of architectural fees and other preliminary expenses in connection with the proposed construction of the new
M a sonic Temple in Downey.
ATHEN S LoDGE No. 228
Application approved to borrow $18.000 from lodge to be repaid a t
ra te of $100 per month (plus 4% interest) . Funds to be used to remodel
temple to conform to requirements of City Building Inspector.
CovELO LODGE No. 231
Committee consent granted application to construct new Masonic
T emple in C ovelo at estima ted sum of $15,000; also to borrow $5,000 (to
be repaid in 10 years) to assist in the cost of construction.
CovELo LoDGE No. 23 1
Application approved to borrow $12,500 from Savings Bank of
Mendocino County at Ukiah for the purpose of completing the new
temple in Covelo.

200

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRJ\ND LODGE OP CALIPO RNIJ\

StLVER GATE LODGE No. 296
Consent granted to expend approximately $4.500 for replacing console and overhauling pipe organ in the Masonic Temple.

amount. Funds to be applied as a payment on a trust deed on the property held by the Bank of America.

PoRTERVILLE LoDGE No. 303

Consent granted request to transfer $3.900 from lodge general funds
to the Properties Corpora tion for the purpose of installing heating and
cooling units in the Masonic Temple in Porterville.
MONROVIA LoDGE No. 308
Application approved for the following.
1. Trans fer $4.000 from lodge funds to the Building Corporation for
the purpose of starting construction on the new Masonic Temple.
2. To start construction (to enclose) in the approximate sum of
$25 .000.
MONROVIA LoDGE No. 308
Consent granted to expend additional $10.000 for the purpose of
enclosing the new temple being constructed.
ALHAMBRA LoDGE No. 322
Approval granted request to transfer $5,000 from lodge funds to the
Temple Association in order to make proper and required repa irs on the
temple.
WmTTIER LoDGE No. 323

Consent granted request to expend an additional $85,000 toward the
completion of the new Masonic Temple in Whittier; also consent to
transfer $37.000 from lodge general funds to the Temple Association
for such purpose.
SAN FERNANDO LODGE No. 343
to transfer $12.000 from lodge general funds
approved
Application
to the Temple Association for the purpose of reducing outstanding
indebtedness; transfer to be in exchange for 25 year non-interest bearing
note in said amount.

UNITY LoDGE No. 368
Consent granted application to tra nsfer $1 0,000 from lodge general
funds to the Temple Association in exchange for 50 regular memberships
in said association. Said funds to be used for the purpose of preceding
with the cons truction of the new Unity Masonic Temple.
U N ITY LoDGE No. 368
Consent granted request to borrow $ 10.000 for the purpose of continuing the construction of the new Masonic Temple in Glendale.
OcEAN PARK LoDGE No. 369
Consent granted to incorporate the new ( nonprofit) Ocean Park
Masonic Temple A ssociation , subject to the condition that a ll assets of
the existing corporation be transferred to the new association upon incorporation.
HIGHLAND PARK LoDGE No. 382
Application approved to expend $6.000 for necessary alterations and
rehabilitation work on temple in order to conform to city building ordinance.
BURLI NG AME LoDGE No. 400
Consent granted for expenditure as follows :
Repairs to roof.......... ...................................................... $2,500.00
Modernize temple entrance .......................................... 2.000.00
Painting inte rior ~f temple ................................. ........... 3.000.00

Total ................................. ....................................................... $7,500.00

SEQUOIA LoDGE No. 349
Resolution approved requesting consent to extension of previous con·
sent to purchase outstanding stock in Temple A ssociation owned by
individuals; such extension to expire on November 30. 1964.

G LENDORA LoocE No. 404
Application approved requesting committee consent a s follows:
1. Trans fer two $10.000 Time Certificates of D eposit from G lendora
Lodge to the Temple Association.
2. Consent to secure a loan in the amo unt of $70.000 to be used in
the construction costs of the new temple.
3. To proceed with the construction and completion of the new
temple at estimated total cost o f $143 ,000.

GOLDEN STATE LODGE No. 358
Committee consent granted to transfer $2.500 from lodge funds to
Temple Association for the purpose of reducing outstanding loan; also
consent to transfer anticipated gift of $1.500 to lodge for same purpose.

GLENDO RA LoDGE No. 404
Consent granted application to transfer $6,000 from lodge funds to
Temple Associa tion in exchange for a regular membership in said
amount. Funds to be used to furnish kitchen equipment. etc.

GOLDEN STATE L ODGE No. 358
Approval granted application to transfer $7.055.63 from lodge funds
to the Temple Association in exchange for a regular membership in said

PERRIS LoDGE No. 411
Committee consent granted application to purchase property for
Masonic Temple site in the estimated sum of $9.500 (plus costs).

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
ALPHA L oDG E No. 431

Committe e consent granted to purchase stock in the Richmond Temple Associatio n at not more than $1 0 per share and not to exceed a total
sum of $2,000; such consent to remain in effect one year.
CLAREMO NT LODGE No. 436
Approval granted to renew existing lease for lodge purposes as set
forth in extension agreemen t dated October 9, 1963 .
CENTER LODGE No. 465
C onsent granted request to purchase capital stock of Las Palmas
Lodge No. 366 in the Fresno Masonic Temple Company at $50 per
share as outlined in agreemen t between said lodges.
COA CHELLA LODGE No. 476
Applicatio n approved and consent granted to borrow $20,000 in
order to complete the new Masonic Temple; said loan to be secured
from members of the lodge upon the terms outlined in the applicatio n.
SUNNYVA LE LODGE No. 511
Consent granted to applicatio n to borrow $30.000 in order to complete new temple in Sunnyvale based upon terms stated in applicatio n
dated Septembe r 21. 1963.
BELLFLOW ER LoDGE No. 523
Consent granted applicatio n to purchase property adjacent to lodge
for $I 8,500: also consent to borrow $9.500 from Charter Savings and
Loan Associatio n to apply upon purchase price of the property.
Above consents granted in order to clear the record as said property
was purchased prior to the submissio n of the applicatio n.
SuN GARDEN LoDGE No. 530
Consent granted to purchase capital stock of Las Palmas Lodge No.
366 in the Fresno Masonic Temple Company at $50 per share upon the
terms set forth in purchase agreemen t between said lodges.
RIALTO LoocE No. 582
to incorporat e the new Rialto Masonic Temapproved
n
Applicatio
ple Associatio n and to transfer $I ,500 from lodge funds to the new association when formed.
RIALTo LoDGE No. 582

Consent granted applicatio ns as follows:
1. Tcansfer $8.000 from lodge general funds to the Temple Associa,
tion for the purpose of purchasin g temple site.
2. Purchase property for future new temple for Rialto Lodge for
$7, 135. plus costs.
GARDEN GRovE LoDGE No . 586
granted the applicatio n reques ting the following:
consent
e
Committe
1. Purchase property described as Lot 4 in said applicatio n for $14,'
000.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

203

2. Borrow $11.500 to assist in the purchase based upon the terms
and conditions stated in the applicatio n.
KAUAI LoDGE No. 589
Committe e consent granted as follows:
1. To amend the charter of incorporat ion to include the requireme nts
of the Internal Revenue Service relating to tax exemption .
2. That $250 be transferre d from lodge general funds to the Temple
Associatio n to provide for immediate and necessary expenses.
LYNWOOD LODGE No. 600

Applicatio n approved to transfer $10.000 from lodge general funds
to the Temple Associatio n in order to reduce indebtedn ess by $6.500
and to replace carpeting for $3, 500: regular membersh ip in said association to be issued in exchange for such transfer.

R. E. DOLLEY LODGE No. 616
Consent granted to applicatio n as follows:
I. To expend additional $3.500 to complete new constructi on and
alteration work necessary to meet code requireme nts, etc.
2. To transfer $2,500 from lodge funds to Temple Associatio n to
assist in constructi on costs.
CHULA V1sTA LODGE No. 626

Consent granted request to purchase new carpet for the Masonic
Temple in the estimated amount of $5.000.
TRUTH LoDGE No. 628
Consent grant~d to enter into lease agreemen t for use of new construction for lodge purposes as set forth in said agreement ; also to
transfer $2.500 from lodge general funds to the Temple Associatio n for
the purpose of making installa tions in the new temple quarters.
RIVERSIDE LoDGE No . 635
Consent granted request to expend approxima tely $5.000 for repairing a nd modernizi ng the Masonic Temple in Riverside.
JoHN D. SPRECKEL S LoDGE No. 657

Committe e approval granted to increase existing loan to $27.000 for
the purpose of installing air conditioni ng, repa irs and remodelin g temple
property.
LA HABRA LoocE No. 659
Committe e consent granted applicatio n to form new La Habra Masonic Temple Associatio n (nonprofit ) . subject to the following:
1. That all assets of old corporatio n be transferre d to the new association.
2. That all funds held by the lodge (building site fund) be transferred to the associatio n in exchange for regular membersh ips in said
association .

204

205

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

BALDWIN PARK LoocE No. 660

pie Association , subject to the condition that $500 be transferred from
the lodge to the association when formed.

Committee consent granted application requesting the following:
1. To start construction (to complete) the new Masonic Temple for
approximately $73.000.
2. To transfer $12.000 from lodge funds to the Building Association
for such construction.
3. Borrow $40,000 from Azusa Valley Savings Bank for construction costs.
BARSTOW LooGE No. 682
Committee approval granted request to purchase property to be converted to Masonic Temple for $65,000. Consent subject to condition that
no further expenditures be made. funds borrowed or contracts entered
into without further consent of the committee.
INDIAN WELLS VALLEY LoDGE No. 691
AcACIA MASONIC BUILDI NG Assoc 1ATJON

Consent granted request to borrow $35,000 to complete temple in
Ridgecrest. subject to the following:
1. That no additional funds be borrowed without first securing consent of the committee.
2. Receipt of excerpts of minutes of meeting of Building Association
authorizing the loan.
3. Receipt of 6 copies of current profit and loss statements of the
lodge and Building Association.
HoME LoDGE No. 721

Consent granted application to start construction of new Masonic
Temple for Home Lodge in approximate sum of $51 .000; such consent
being for enclosing only; further approval of the committee required for
completion.
0As1s O F MARA LooGE No. 735
Consent granted request to transfer $1,000 from lodge funds to Temple Association to start construction (to enclose) the new Masonic Temple in Twentynine P alms.
LEMON GRovE LoDGE No. 736
Application approved to purchase property adjacent to lodge site
for parking and future Masonic use in the sum of $6.061.40: also consent to secure a loan of $5,000 at 6 % to be repaid at a rate of not less
than $50 per month.
TYRE LoDGE No. 741
Consent granted to application as follows:
1. Purchase improved property for Masonic Temple for $60.000.
2. Transfer $24.000 from lodge general funds to Temple Association.
3. Borrow $36.000 from Scottish Rite of Long Beach to consummate
purchase.
TEJON LoDGE No. 773

Application approved for the formation of the Tejon Masonic Tern-

LA M I RADA LoocE N o . 778

Application approved to purchase 40 regular memberships in the
Temple Association at $20 per membership at a total cost of $800.
S1M1 VALLEY LoDGE No. 806
Application approved to purchase property for new temple site for

$15.000.
SCEPTER LoocE No. 808
Consent granted application to form the Scepter Masonic Temple
Association and to transfer $250 from lodge funds to the association
when incorporated .
WooD LAND H1LLS LooGE No. 811
Consent granted the application to form the Eight Eleven M asonic
Temple Association an d to transfer $200 from lodge funds to the a ssociation when incorporated.
The success of the past year has been due mostly to the coo peration
secured from the officers a nd brethren of the lodges and temple associations. It is our specinl desire to acknowledge our apprecia tion for the
complete and full support. counsel and advice given by our Gra~d Master. Elmer W. Heald . and his officers. Their assistance aided us m many
troublesome situations and has encouraged us in all our endeavors. Our
gratitude is also expressed to the Grand Secretary. the Assistant G.ra.nd
Secretary and to their efficient and accommodating staff for prov1dmg
us with needed ·a ssistance and cooperation. Such assistance and such
cooperation has made our task a much lighter one and our service on the
committee very rewarding .
Masonry is growing in strength in California and will continue to
grow as long as the interest in building new temples and improving those
in existence endures. We challenge the statement that we are no longer
operative but speculative only . Masons are builders-builders of temples where they may meet on common ground to mold the minds of men
to become better Masons and citizens and where they may dwell together
in peace and unity and harmony as free men under the benignant a nd
approving eye of the Great Architect of the universe .
Respectfully submitted.

w. S T U RM
ARTHUR s. BECKER

GEORGE

MARK A. GREE N
IVAN T. CRASE
R ICHARD L. RIEM ER

BENJAMIN L . SU SMAN
CHARLES c. CADMAN

SIDNEY

F. SEA

MELV IN H. MERRITT

Referred to Committee on Finance .

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
As reported at the 1963 Annual Communica tion, your Committee on
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges has had under consider<1tion requests from two of the State Grand Lodges of the Republic of Brazil for
recognition by the Grand Lodge of California : First , the Grand Lodge
of Pa rana, founded in 1941. and , second , the Grand Lodge of Mat·.)
Grosso, organized in 1962.
Our information on these two Grand Lodges is tha t they form a p<ut
of the State Grand Lodge system of Brazil. that they a re entirely regular
and worthy of recognition. We, therefore, recommend that the Grand
Lodge of California extend fraternal recognition to the Grand Lodge
of P a rana, Brazil, and to the Grand Lodge of M ato Grosso. Brazil.
A s information. we report that the Grand Lodge formerly known as
the Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro in the fo rmer F ederal D istrict of the
City of Rio de Janeiro has now changed its name to the Grand Lodge
o f the State of Guanabara. This change was brought about by removal
of the Capital o f Brazil from Rio de Janeiro to Brasilia. The territory
for merly incorpora ted in the Fede ral District. incl uding the City o f Rio
de Janeiro, has now become a State known as Guanabara.
Respectfully submitted,
PHIL N . MYERS
ALFRED F. B RESLAUER
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, JR.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Constitution O bservance is pleased to repor t to
this Annual Communication that during the past Masonic year there
was a steady and continuing progressive trend in the results of this program throughout the jurisdiction; the Master's reports to this Committee
have been carefully analyzed , and these reports from the Lodges indicate
to us first, that a ttendance at their local celebrations has, on a n average
throughout the jurisdiction . increased by approximately twenty per cent
( 20 % ) due to outstanding efforts in certain areas, and secondly. that .
in the opinion of our Masters. the approach used this year. and most of
th e programs presented by the Lodges have resulted in a decided improvement; and obviously attendance and effectiveness of programming
at these events are the most reliable and valuable cri teria in determining
the ex tent of enthusiasm and interest for this most worthwhile program
of your Grand Lodge. At this point, it should be pointed out that the

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFORNIA

207

work of this Committee has been expanded. and a dditional patriotic
programs, other than Constitution Observances. have been promoted
throughout the jurisdiction in a very effective manner; this expansion
was in accordance with the policy adopted at the 1963 Communications
of our Grand Lodge, stating tha t " the work of the Constitution Observa nce Committee be expanded, with more programs and a dded activity."
(Pa ge 283, 1962 Proceedings.}
Our Grand M aster, the Most W orshipful Elmer W . Heald, has sincerely and effectively supported ou r program with dedication and enthusiasm throu ghout the year; you r Committee wishes to acknowledge that
muc h credit is r igh tfully due to our Gra nd Master for the progress
reported here. The Constitu tion of the U nited S ta tes. the " Let Freedom
Ring" Program and the various local " Flag D ay" Progra ms have found
their way into the subj ect matter of many of his inspirational addresses
to the Craft. during the year; also. your Gra nd Master has wholeheartedly supported the new mass media communication program, repor ted
later herein. and for his dedicated concern and effective support for our
entire program, ea ch member o f the Committee expresses sincere appreciation and gratitude. W e sincerely feel that our Grand M aster is one
of our great living Americans.
The added interest shown in the 1964 progrnm throughout the jurisdic tion is, no doubt, due to many fac tors and activities. The yea r itself.
being an election year, has focu sed added attention, to some degree,
to our Constitut ion Program; however, this factor has also restricted
agg ressiveness somewhat in this program fo r the year. since politics and
the expression of. political opinion at our celebrations cert ainly have no
place in this Masonically sponsored program. and a few of our Lodges
have expressed concern over this very problem.
Your Committee also reports that the Lodges procured an d distr ibuted an additional 80.000 "Preamble" promotional pieces dur ing the
year, or a total of 210.000, and our Master's Reports clearly indicate a
very close relationship between the use of these promotional pieces and
their total attendance at the celebrations.
From the Master's Reports, it is indicated that ninety per cent
( 90 % ) of the celebrations this year were public observances; your Committee feels that this is a healthy trend. w hereby the Masonic image.
and one of the tenets of the Craft, are being favorably projected into the
public at large. As a n indica tion of this trend, we are proud to report
t hat the Brethren in our sister State of H awaii he ld a highly successful.
yet dignified and well organized. public obser vance at which there were
in a ttendance approxima tely 4000 Americans.
This year, your Committee also embarked on a new program of promoting this Grand Lodge P rogram throu gh the mass media of radio and
television. At a very modest expense to your Grand Lodge, ever y television and rad io station in the State of California was fo rwarded "pub-

208

PROCEEDINGS OP T HE

lie service" announcements for use by their stations, either copy to be
used by their local personalities or recordings and television slides for
their use. Your Committee contacted radio and television stations in the
State of California, together with letters from your Committee and the
public relations firm assisting us in this project. urging these stations to
use our material, and assuring them that this was a non-political and
non-controversial project of this fraternity. With reference to this particular activity, much ground work has been done in the field, which we
hope will be expanded in the future. Also your Lodges report that radio
and television coverage appeared in approximately forty-five per cent
( 45 % ) o( the areas. However, this activity is actually in its infancy, and
we hope it will be expanded markedly in the next year; your Committee
believes that this approach to the public could really be the vehicle
whereby our Constitution would again become a part of our daily lives;
actually. the possibilities of this approach are spectacular. Certain members o( our Fraternity are entitled to special recognition in this report
for their efforts and wholehearted cooperation to this new program, and
we refer specifically to Brother William Latta, of the Latta Co .• a public
relations firm in Glendale, California, to Brother C. P. "Chick" McGregor, of the C. P. McGregor Company, an entertainment and public
relations firm in Los Angeles. California, to one of the members of our
Committee, Brother William A. "Lon" Fishback, o( Station KTLA, Los
Angeles , California, and Brother Donald Batten of Station KPIX, San
Francisco, California; in this initial entrance into this field, these Brethren. who are professionals in this very specialized field. have given us
complete cooperation, and have rendered service to our Craft far beyond
the call of duty.
Your Committee wishes to express its appreciation and gratitude to
the personnel of the Grand Secretary's office, who have been most cooperative, and also the Inspectors throughout the jurisdiction are to be
congratulated for their cordial support and enthusiasm shown on behalf
of this program.
Finally, we recognize that the responsibility for success of this program rests with the Masters and Wardens of our Constituent Lodges.
and we are happy to report that our Masters and Wardens have accepted
this responsibility in a creditable manner.
In conclusion, your Committee makes the following recommendations
to this Grand Lodge:
1. Your Committee renews the recommendation of the 1963 Committee on Constitution Observance that this Committee be made a Standing Committee of this Grand Lodge, since the activities of this Committee deal with one of the most important and worthwhile programs of the
Craft.
2. That the budget for the 1965 Committee on Constitution Observ-

209

GR-'ND LODGE OP C-'LIPORNI-'

ance be increased to a total of $6.650.00 in order that the activities of
this Committee in the field of mass communication m~dia may be expanded and improved, whereby the public image of Masonry is projected in
a dignified and worthwhile manner.
3. That all future Constitution Observance programs in this jurisdic~
tion be celebrated as public gatherings. in public places other than
Masonic buildings. except in those instances where the local Masonic
Temple is the chief meeting place for the community.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS
EARL PATTERSON, JR.

w. THURMAN

EDWARD W. WREDE. JR.

w.

CHARLES L. HAPAI
WILLIAM A. F1sHBACK
JAMES R. YOUNG
EDWARD E. SEAGLE
CLARENCE N. JOHNSON
CLAUDE E. CoLE
HARRY R. SONES
CHARLES N . CLARKSON

ORAN
PALMER
CARL E. MUMPER
SAMUEL
SHENK
JOHN H. MASTELLER
ARTHUR M. POWELL
JAMES V. LATHAM
KENNETH E. MORRISON
EDWARD A. UNDERWOOD

HowARD L M c CARTHY
ELLSWORTH H. BURSON

DENMAN C. DAw
ALAN B. BODLEY

c.

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC CEMETERIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Cemeteries submits the following report of its
accomplishments and activities during the Grand Lodge Year.
Our efforts during the past year have, for the most part, been most
gratifying. We have. however, had our share of disappointments.
FIDDLETOWN: Most of the improvement activity of this Committee during the past year has been centered around the Grand Lodge
owned cemetery at Fiddletown. This cemetery is located in the Mother
Lode Country about six miles east of Plymouth. The portion with which
we are concerned consists of approximately two acres in the shape of an
"L." extending 386 feet from the road to the back fence line and 208
(eet across the back. The balance of the cemetery is owned or controlled
by other fraternal and church organizations, and to the community.
This cemetery. as reported in the past , was in a deplorable condition.
being covered with weeds, brush, broken trees, broken fences, broken
headstones and curbs. and in general was a disgrace to the Fraternity.
We are pleased to report that it is now enclosed with an attractive chain
link fence with galvanized posts and corners. The entire area has been
cleared of alt weeds, brush, and unwanted trees. and the stumps treated

210

GRl\ND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

with
h chemicals. Weed k1'll er was· ap l' d
t e coopera tion. of the Agric
. lt
ie to the entire cemeter y th
of the cos t was only $33 00 u hure
partmen t. The Grand Lod rough
We bel;eve the Fidd; t , t u• "'vmg u• a ppmxim atcly
nity and, with the comple~i~:~h ~emetery is now a credit to the F t
and curbs, and by installin g
is nex t year of repairin g the
erof fence, which \'-"as not . lodnedm.ore ga te and replacin g a small s
f 1.
me u e m last
ee mg that future mainten ance cost s canybear ,s b ud get request it ection
e h Id
. .
· is our
COLU MBIA· B
e to a minimum.
C
a ll ca ·t l ·
ol~mbia Cemete· ry ecause
last year
"t p1 a improve ment was done at th
thi' yea< !m
(;"'
to •pend only $600
ecause of addition al weed sp .. os s or t e next yea r will be h1"gh.
raymg.
er
/AMES TOWN : The sum of $1510 0
last year to acquire title a nd restore the ~lJ M as re~uested in our budget
town, located about three miles fro S
asonic Cemete ry at JamesStreet. N one of this mone
m
onora
on what is called M .
Y was spent.
am
It was first thought that a To
.
t~is propert y and that the Grandw~:~te
Deerd had never been issued for
s~mple ma nner. Afte r a title search wa~e c~u . get a clear title in a very
site Deed was issued to one A B P
ma e, it was found that a Town~875 . _and re~orded on Octob~r .19,r~~f~· ~rustee, dated Decemb er 31,
een issued, it is necessa ry to roceed . . e:ause a deed ha d already
cedure now is to apply to the S~
. ~ a differen t manner. The pro10 and for the County of Tuolu:n e;1or . ~ur~
of the Sta te of Californ ia ,
Grand Lodge of Californ ia a s trust~ p~t1t1~mng the court to appoint the
n~w decease d. This action has b e m pace of A . B. Preston . who is
within a short time. The Co
sta~ted dand
be comple• ed
mm1"tteen
ee cons1de
· ·should
d
'
wor on t e propert y un til the tit!
I
re
it
ina
visable
to do any
h
withkthe Jamesto
wn Cemete r is~ ':"'as c eared. All legal work connect ed
ffill. Attorne y at Law of Son~ra. eing done by Brother William C . Cof-

rk

$36l~o'.ha<e
heads~a
o~es

~unng

maintena~c~

,"'t°"~'Y

o3

Throug hout the pas t year a number f
ance have been received
from v .
Lo request s for advice and assist
. h
odges l
h .
sentahv e as met with the offi a nous
d
. tn deac
instance a repre cers
an
member
.
LIVER MORE · 0
s o iscuss their problem s.
.
·
21
.
more with
the officersn aMarch
nd me b' 1964f . a meeting
was held in LiverMosaic Lodge No. 218 . As a r~s:l:s o~ t the Cem_ete ries Commi ttee of
~y-laws governi ng the operatio n of th t~t meeting a complete set of
as been adopted by the Lod e and
e ivermor e Masoni c Cemete ry
on the way toward a most s~ccessf·u~r~:d a~l repor~s. that Lodge is well
SMAR TSVIL LE · 0 M
armon1ou s operatio n.
ville with the officers~£ R~se'
l ~64 ~meeting was held in Smartstaken the job of restorin g the oldar o ge o. 89. This Lodge has underLodge and the Odd Fellows Th~emeter~ o"."ned jointly by the Masoni
.
y are avmg a problem with the titlec

:12\

211

to the propert y and as of this date they cannot do too much toward
iinprove
ment.
SACR
AMEN TO: O n May 27, 1964 a member of this Commi ttee
rnet with the Sacra men to Master s and Warde n s Associa tion
to discuss
the Masoni c Plot in th e Old City Cemete ry. This plot has deterior a ted
to a deplora ble state a nd attempt s are being made to restore it to
a
satisfac tory conditio n. Minimu m care has. in the past. been fi:;tanced by
the Masters and W ardens Associa tion . They do not. howeve r. have
sufficient funds to effect a complet e restorat ion. Brother LeRoy ] . Irvin
of Tehama Lodge No. 3 is working on several plans a nd it is hoped that
he will meet with success. This Commit tee should lend them all possible
assistan
.
TheceCommi
ttee has received several complai nts about the conditio n
of the Masoni c sections of the cemeter ies of Madiso n Lodge No. 23
in
Grass Valley and Nevada Lodge No. 13 in Nevada City. Upon inspection. it was found that these complai nts were well founded . A letter has
been sent to the Secreta ries of the two Lodges requesti ng that some a ction
be taken to correct the conditio ns.
During a routine inspecti on of cemeteries in the Mother Lode C ountry, a most interest ing and pleasan t discove ry was made. We were
accomp anied on a portion of the trip by Brother Leslie E . Woodw orth.
a member of M adison Lodge No. 23 . Several years ago Brother Woodworth and a friend. who is a member of the Odd Fellows , came upon
the old Red Dog Cemete ry in a backwo ods portion of Nevada County
.
At that time. only one headsto ne was visible because of the grow th of
brush and trees 'and the accumu lation of rubbish over the years.
two men took upon themsel ves the task of cleaning up the a rea and
found that there existed two identica l sections in the middle of the
cemeter y about 40 feet square and complet ely enclosed by broken- down
metal fences. One section is marked with the Odd Fellows emblem on
the gate and the other with the M asonic level over the gate archwa
y.
This was the cemeter y of Mount Carmel Lodge No. 155 in Red Dog
which surrend ered its charter on August 16, 1872. There are approxi
mately 20 Masonic graves in this section.
Brother Woodw orth and his friend. Mr. Lyle White. have completely cleared off a ll the brush . weeds and debris, reset and pieced
togethe r the old headsto nes and restored the fence a s much as they
possibly could. The cemeter y is now in excellen t conditio n and would
be a credit to any Lodge. A visitors ' register has been kept since 1958
and approxi mately 1000 people, from all over the world. sig n the book

Th~se

each year.
Brother Woodw orth and Mr . White a re to be commen ded for a
tremend ous job exceptio nally well done. It is recomm ended by this Committee tha t a further study be made of the Red Dog C emetery and report
made to Grand Lodge at the next session.

212

213

GR/\NO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Brother Woodworth has also located. and restored in equally ftne
condition, three Masonic graves in the old Omega Cemetery. Three
identical stones mark these graves of brethren who were evidently members of Dibble Lodge No. 109 in Omega, which surrendered its charter
on September .27, 1879. We feel that a similar study should be made
of this cemetery and a report made at the next session.
Our congratulations must go to Chico Lodge No. 111 and Brother
Wilton L. Simmons for an excellent job of restoring the old M asonic
section of the Chico Cemetery. This particular section was donated to
the lodge in the early 1850s by General John Bidwell. Maintenance of
the area was not placed directly upon Chico Lodge but within the past
year members made it a project of their own. Volunteer work groups
meet on Sunday to clear out trees and shrubbery, which practically covered the area. They have been assisted in their project by members of
Chico Assembly, Order of Rainbow for Girls. who have worked raking
the entire section. We feel that all other Lodges that own cemeteries
should take a lesson from Smartsville and Chico and do the same thing.
A request was made of our Grand Master, by " Memorial Park
Cemetery" at Brea, for a ruling as to whether or not an altar with an
open Bible could be placed in the Acacia Lawn section, and if the Grand
Lodge would perform the Masonic Dedication Ceremonies. It was the
opinion of Most Worshipful Elmer W . Heald that an altar with the
open Bible could be placed in the Acacia section but with no inscription
taken from our ritual. or manual or any other inscription of strictly
Masonic nature. It was also his opinion that a Grand Lodge dedication
could not be made because the section was privately owned. and was not
strictly a Masonic Section.
To continue with the work already being done, we respectfully
request the following funds for the 1964-65 Grand Lodge year:
Columbia :
General maintenance and dean-up ......................$ 600.00
Spraying with weed killer...................................... 300.00
Spray materials and tools ..................................... . 100.00
$1.000.00
Piddletown :
Replacement on one gate and small section of
fence not included in the 1963-64 estimate .......... $ 350.00
Spraying and clearing grounds............................ 300.00
Repairs and restoration of headstones.................. 310.00

$ 960.00

Jamestown:
Lad
$
Clearing title and transfer to Grand
ge ....... . 100.00
Survey .................................................................... 300.00
Clearing weeds , brush. etc., ................................. . 350.00
Spraying with weed killer ..................................... . 300.00
85.00
S pray materials ......................................................
300.00
Fix headstones, curbs. etc .................................... .
Wire fence and one gate........................................ J ,000.00

- -- -

$2.435.00
Normal annual request for general Committee use .... $ 275.00

----

T otal Budget request $4.670.00
.
h k t the Grand Master, Most
We wish to express our smcere t an s o
d h"
onderful

Wffiorship~l El~e~oV:ii~~~~~~ t:~: ~:~:dg7:;~e~~r~ra~elp sa:d advihce
1

o ce sta . an
0
hanks also to those who ha\·e taken t e
throughout the past year. ur t. .
t th Grand Lodge and various
f e to write letters of apprec1at1on o
e
c•:::nmittee members for the work that is being done.
Respectfully submitted,
BASIL R. GtLLETI
FREDERICK H. CH/\PMAN

c. S CHROEDER
WtLTON J. SMITH
HAROLD

ADRIAN TAYLOR

Referred to Committee on F inance.

REPORT ~F COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of Calif_ornia: .
f
At the J963 Communication of Grand Lod ge .. t_he ~1spens~~l7ia:
M
t Baldy Lodge U .D. was continued for an add1tiona year._
.
d
B.o~gden Lodge U.D. and Manhattan Lodge U .D. l~~;e ~:~~~u~~e
before the 1963 Communication but a fter c:>ctober
d L~dge Since
dispensations continued in effect without act10~ b:t L~a~ts Lodg~ U .D.
the 1963 Communication two more Lodges.. r~
g
La
d
Lodge
U.D
.
have
been
mstituted.
k
an d F ran S ·
n
h
ff
d for
Of the five Lodges under dispensation, four ave pe 1 10ne

d•

Charters :
Mount Baldy Lodge U .D.
W illiam B. Ogden Lodge U .D.
Manhattan Lodge U .D .
Great Lights Lodge U .D.
.
1
They have submitted their records for examCinatio_n and~~ir ~:e;~
h
peared bdore the omm1ttee.
i e
gates and inspectords a~e ~P in some cases none have been of a serious
have been errors an om1ss10ns
,

214

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

ived
natu re and the Com mitt ee has rece
assu ranc es fr?~ the resp ectiv e
such
that
rs
ecto
insp
and
s
gate
dele
erro rs and om1ss1ons wou ld be
corr ecte d.
icul arly com men ds Mou nt Bal d y Lod ge U.D .
T~e Com mitt ee part
ent at not b .
intm
ppo
disa
r
Des pite thei
th~ng. g{an ted a Cha rter at the 1963
Com mun icati on, they resp ond ed to
t w1s es of th~ Gra nd Lod ge with
true Mas onic Spir it and mat eria ll s. rhengthened thei r Lod ge duri ng the
y
.
. t
inte rven ing time . The m
erv1ew wit .the dele g a t es an d t h e curr ent
d
show
e
Lod
the
of
reco rds
9
of financial stab ility and
a equat~ evid ence d.
the abil ity of the L 0 d ge to prog
ress 1£ char tere
.
th f
The Com mitt ee on Cha rter
imo usly reco mm ends
unan
or~,
ere
b
n~·
and
ted
gran
that Cha rter s be
ing
m ers assi gned to the four peti tion
Lod ges as follows:
Mou nt Bald. y Lod ge N o. 815 at Ont ario , in the Cou nty of Sa n
Berna rd mo
Cou nty
Lod ge No. 816 at Ho1Iywood. in the

Wi~~alo~.A~~~l:~

the Cou nty
e No. 817 at Man hatt an Beach, in
Ma:?aLttanALodgIes
os nge
n vale
Gre at Ligh ts Lod ge No. 818 at Sun Y
• in the C oun ty of
ra
Cla
ta
San
1 f
Fran k S. Lan d Lod ge U .D.r did dnot a
y or a Cha rt.er but requ este d
c
be
tion
ensa
disp
r
thei
that
. . e reco mm enda tion of the Com mitt ee on Cha rter s is that t~; ~7ue sat1on be cont inue d for the ensu ing
spen
Mas onic year .
Res pect fully subm itted ,

Ttp

Pm up B. STO NE

R

OBE RT A. SMI TH
WAY NE E. BUR K
MAR TIN ORT LIEB
STA NLE Y L
OSA RT
.

c

K

ENN ETII L. HEM PHI LL
CHA RLE S WA RRE N
FRA NK B. PEEB LES
]OH N L. SHA W

.
th
By sepa rate acti ons the port ion of
g char ters and
ntm
g.ra
ort
;~ep
ted
ado
was
cont inui ng a disp ensa tion
the Rep ort of
of
ion
port
at
.
.
p
the Gra nd Secr etar re u .
ters of five
char
r1ty to end orse the
Lod ges to show ch:ngeqo:~m~ · auth
app rove d
Also
~ ~ces was appr oved .
was that port ion of the repor~ermg
ters to
char
the
:o~ng eNdorsemcnt of
show cons olid atio n of Jona thaegai ge
Lod ge
itas
Ver
and
545
o.
.n
N 5 5
No. 640 to be k now n as V enta
s-Jo nath an L d
ctive
effe
.
.
i
Lod N ° ge o.
Dec emb er 3, 1963, and King Solo mon
Lod ge
port
Sea
and
260
o.
9':
No. 550. to be kno wn as Kin
260,
g Solo mon s Sea port Lod ge No.
effective Dec emb er 5, 1963.
At 12: I 0 p.m. Gra nd Lod ge was calle

d off until l .. 30 p.m.

GRAND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

AF TER NO ON SES SIO N-T ues day

215

, Oct obe r 13, 196 4

d on, the Gra nd Mas ter pres idAt l :30 p.m. Gra nd Lod ge was calle
the Gra nd Cha plai n.
ing. The invo catio n was deli vere d by

GR AN D OR AT ION
NR Y. VIR TU E AN D
" DED ICA TED TO FRE EM ASO
UN IVE RSA L BEN EVO LEN CE"
EUGENE S. HOP P.

Gra nd Ora tor

Gra nd Mas ters .
Mos t \Vo rshi pful Sir, Hon ored Pas t
, Dist ingu ishe d Gue sts and
bers
Mem
and
cers
Gra nd Lod ge Offi
Visi tors . Mg Bret hren All:
the clos e of one of the mos t
The hou r has come whi ch mar ks
hou t ac tual ly expe rien cing it, one
mom ento us year s of my life. Wit
itual. and inte llect ual gain s whi ch
can scar cely appr ecia te the mor al, spir
his asso ciati on with all of the Gra nd
com e to the Gra nd Ora tor thro ugh
Lod ge officers in the wor k of a year .
yea r for I have had the rare
I have been part icul arly fo rtuntl te this
our Gra nd Mas ter, Mos t Wo rshi ppriv ileg e of close associa tion with
. his hum ility , his sinc erity , his inful Elm er W. Heald. H is war mth
of the righ t. and his won derf ul
tegr ity, his fort hrig htne ss in defe nse
l
ease , are expe rien ces whic h I shal
capa city to mak e evel 'yon e feel at
alw ays trea sure .
eys the sinc erity and maje stic
The re is a nobl e state men t whi ch conv
well as the fund a men tals of Free phil osop hy of our Gra nd Mas ter. as
have read if we had , each one of
mas onry . This state men t we wou ld
Vv'hom we put our trus t (the mot to
us, rais ed our eyes tow ard H im in
edifice toda y. Car ved in the mar ble
of our cou ntry ) as we ente red this
are the wor ds,
abov e the entr ance to this audi toriu m
HO NO RIN G THE IR
"CA LIF OR NIA FRE EM ASO NS
TEM PLE DED ICA TED
HER O IC DEA D ERE CT TH IS
AN D UN IVE RS AL
TO FRE EM ASO NR Y. VlR TU E.
OF FRE EDO M
USE
CA
BEN EVO LEN CE TH AT TH E
BE TH ERE IN
ER
EV
LL
SHA
FOR WH ICH TH EY DIE D
EIR BRE THR EN AN D OF
TH E SAC RED TR US T OF TH
"
FRE EM ASO NS YE T UN BO RN
y som e thou ghts conc erni ng
I shou ld like to shar e with you toda
prin cipl es to whi ch this temp le is
thes e very wor ds, desc ribin g thos e
, " Ded icat ed to Free mas onry ."
dedi cate d. Firs t, the insc ripti on says
onry is? Do we real ly und er.5Cand
Do we real ly kno w wha t Free mas
has been vari ousl y desc ribe d as:
its subl ime purp ose? Free mas onry
ood , a phil osop hy, a relig ion, an
an inte rnat iona l frate rnity . a brot herh

216

PROCE l".DINGS OP THE

rituali stic symbo ls;
allego ry teachi ng funda menta l truths by mea ns of
by symbo ls.
ated
illustr
and
ry
alles:io
a system of moral ity, veiled in
these, and yet
of
any
than
more
is
e,
believ
Yet Freem asonr y. I
a glorio us histor y of
none of these. It is, indee d . rooted in the past, in
y and the dignit y
achiev ement by Freem asons in the defen se of libert
only becau se
place
took
s
of the indivi dual. But, these achiev ement
l. educa ethica
ly
entire
are
y
the teachi ngs and the ideals of Freem asonr
which
with
r
powe
the
utilize
and
nize
tiona l and spiritu al. If we recog
ns,
Maso
lative
specu
tive,
opera
e
becom
we are entrus ted, if we truly
and
hearts
the
in
hands
with
made
not
house
then we can build the
minds of men.
r A. Smith , who
It was a Past Grand Maste r of Louis iana, Luthe
a re living in a
we
that
is
said , "The basic conce pt of Freem asonr y
es, whom we
presid
tect
Archi
great
spiritu al unive rse over which the
pt of our
conce
tant
impor
most
next
shoul d worsh ip and adore . The
create d
were
we
se
becau
dual.
indivi
the
of
frater nity is the digni ty
thereWe
us.
ty in
in God's image , and have somet hing of His divini
t and
vemen
impro
fore believ e that men have great capab ilities for
plan
to
think.
to
m
p rogres s if they can live in an atmos phere of freedo
t."
benefi
l
a nd to coope rate for their mutua
he was led to
Georg e Wash ingto n once made the statem ent that
st men of
noble
the
that
noted
petitio n Freem asonr y becau se he had
favora ble
the
of
se
becau
nd
a
nity,
Virgi nia were memb ers of the frater
mann er.
like
in
And,
men.
those
with
cts
opinion forme d throu gh conta
it.
about
reads
and
hears
one
what
by
d
F reema sonry is judge
read : "Dedi caBut let us return to the words of the inscri ption. We
ue." Why
"Virt
ed to Freem a·s onry. Virtu e . . . " There is the word!
which
word
Latin
a
from
d
dedic ated to Virtu e? The word itself is derive
m,
wisdo
with
virtue
fied
identi
tes
means streng th or coura ge. Socra
be
to
it
g
holdin
good,
the
of
ledge
which he conce ived to be know
with
dance
accor
in
act
not
yet
and
know
could
incred ible that any man
s. He called them
the good . Plato distin guish ed four cardin al virtue
rance ; and justic e.
wisdo m. or prude nce: coura ge, or fortitu de; tempe
He divide d the
habit.
a
as
or righte ousne ss. Aristo tle regar ded virtue
and the intellife.
cal
practi
virtues into the moral, havin g to do with
t.
insigh
and
m
lectua l. the virtue s of wisdo
al virtue s as the
Chris tian moral ists regar ded Plato 's four cardin
natura l or Chris natura l virtue s and dist inguis hed from them the super
being infuse d by
tian virtue s of faith , hope and charit y, these latter
read in the bened icG od into human natur e. In our own Moni tor, we
and social virtue
moral
tion, "May broth erly love preva il. and every
cemen t us!"
imes did separ ate
. Wri~ers and devel opers of ethica l philos ophy oftent
social or gener al
the
and
s,
virtue
dual
indivi
or
.
virtue mto the moral
regard ed as an
societ y virtue s. Temp eranc e, or self-d iscipl ine. was

GR/\ND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

217

olenc e were conindivi dual or moral virtue ; and justic e and benev
ed in the moral
includ
s
opher
philos
sidere d the social virtue s. Other
virtue s friend social
the
in
and
.
sm
ideali
and
virtue s. prude nce, coura ge
be said that every
ship. or broth erly love. In a broad sense it might
indivi dual perso n
an
virtue repres ents the chara cter or consc ience of
on societ y in
nce
influe
or
and yet every virtue has a social refere nce
n being s.
huma
of
nship
relatio
gener al. Since a societ y consis ts of the
s judge d
nship
relatio
those
of
ts
consis
one to anoth er, and a moral life
tion, the
perfec
n
huma
of
ards
stand
or
and lived in the light of ideals
conour
in
menta l
moral and social virtue s togeth er. becom e funda
sidera tion of the purpo se of Freem asonr y.
the virtues which
The term virtue sugge sts the Greek conce ption and
Greek s expec ted
The
dual.
indivi
the
to
d
they first emph asized relate
ituted for it. and
to attain virtue becau se they regar ded man as const
ment rather than
so they emph asized self- know ledge and self-im prove
a wellsp ring
was
virtue
an appea l to the super natura l. They felt that
roug h perth
red
acqui
be
could
of right deeds , and that every virtue
ses.
impul
nal
irratio
of
ry
sonal effort. and throu gh the maste
ge and pruFrom the indivi dual virtue s of tempe rance and coura
. In Plato 's
follow
,
justice
dence , the more social virtues, partic ularly
culmi nathe
was
It
.
place
st
highe
ethica l system , justice occup ied the
indiThe
nce.
prude
and
de,
fortitu
,
tion of the virtue s of tempe rance
inner
the
in
l
ontro
self-c
or
ce
balan
for
e
provid
s
vidua l or moral virtue
social virtue , for
life of a perso n. These virtue s prece ded the more
as the enrich ing
e
virtue would indee d be self-r egard ing witho ut justic
te.
qualit y which disclo ses goodn ess in its truest sta
attain ed by
It must be pointe d out that Plato' s justice was not to be
cter. or
chara
of
or
ity
capac
of
ities
equal
sheer demo cracy . or ass umed
ed
achiev
was
justic e
of class relatio ns hips, but by the rule of the best,
a
es
enabl
which
,
d
by wisdo m. Justic e is the moral state. Plato b elieve
just.
and
right
is
what
man not only to intend , but actua lly to do.
to one's neigh bors;
Thus . that virtue is comp leted in one's relatio n
good of other s.
the
seeks
y
lifiedl
being the one virtue which unqua
one's dealin gs,
of
all
in
fair
being
le,
examp
Justic e involv es, then, for
as well as being faithf ul to the laws of the land .
is faithf ul to
Virtu e, it has been said, is what man posse sses who
d of allow instea
ns
ituatio
s
ic
specif
the moral ideal. who does his duty in
the stand nizing
recog
by
man
So.
ple.
ing it to remai n a gener al princi
cter but
chara
own
his
ve
impro
only
not
can
ity
ard of truth and moral
are
ards
These stand
also can profo undly influe nce the lives of other s .
provid ed in our Maso nic truths .
s : tempe rance ,
Let me recall the Maso nic descri ption of the virtue
e in Maso nry.
fortitu de, prude nce and justic e - in the First Degre
the affect ions and
Temp eranc e, we said. "Is that due restra int upon

21 8

PROCE EDING S OF THE

nable , and frees the
passio ns which rende rs the body tame and gover
d be your const ant
shoul
virtue
This
vice.
of
mind from the a llurem ents
se of the mind . .. "
P.racti ce." F ortitu de "is tha t noble and s teady purpo
dice, and. like
this virtue is equal ly distan t from rashn ess and cowar
mind. " Pruyour
upon
the forme r virtue , shoul d be deepl y impre ssed
ably to the
agree
s
action
nd
a
dence " teache s us to regula te our lives
judge and
y
wisel
e
w
which
by
y
dictat es of reaso n and is that facult
as well
nt,
prese
our
to
e
relativ
s
ing
prude ntiall y determ ine on all th
cterchara
iar
pecul
your
be
d
shoul
virtue
as our future happi ness. This
or
ard
stand
"that
is
it
ber
remem
will
you
e,
justic
istic . . . ." As for
just
his
man
every
bound ary of right which enabl es us to rende r unto
tent with divine
due, witho ut distin ction. This virtue is not only consis
civil societ y."
of
rt
suppo
and
a nd huma n laws, but is the very cemen t
s are faith, hope
As I have alread y suggested . the theolo gic virtue
of the First Degre e,
and charit y :,In the Moni torial portio n o f the lectur e
of the "theo logica l
we hope as good Maso ns" to arrive in heave n by aid
earth to heave n,
from
g
ladde r which Jacob . in his vision . saw r eachin
faith, hope and
ted
omina
den
the three princi pal round s of which are
of immo rtality ,
hope
God.
in
faith
have
charit y, which admo nish us to
that the charit y is
and cha rity for all mank ind." You will note again
confirms our dedic anot for Maso ns alone , but for all mank ind, which
tion to Unive rsal Benevolence.
asize a simila rity
But why do I speak of the ancie nt Greek s and emph
civiliz ation
great
every
in
that
out
point
to
is
It
pt?
of usage and conce
devel oped
there
se.
when ~he consc ience of ma n was given free exerci
y today .
asonr
Freem
an ethica l and moral philos ophy like that of our
nity
huma
ed
includ
list
his
Confu cius spoke of cardin al virtue s and
ity.
sincer
and
ude
rectit
(broth erly love), justic e,
a tion of moral
I am stress ing the relatio ns hip in every great civiliz
of moral rsion
perve
conce pts to each other becau se in a health y societ y
civiliz ano
and
nation
no
ity in some indivi duals can be conta ined. But
all
does
it
as
g
ctin
affe
e,
Justic
tion has ever surviv ed the perve rsion of
.
nation
a
the institu tions of
we may move in
I ~ight furthe r add that while times chang e. while
techn iques are
and
ials
s~ace mstea d of on land, by horse; while mater
cha nged since
not
have
e
natur
n
d1fferen~ ; t?e basic. motiv ations of huma
ples upon
princi
al
spiritu
and
moral
the
the begm nmg of time nor ha ve
ds.
depen
y
societ
ed
which civiliz
t the ca use of
But the words grave n in the marbl e contin ue : "Tha
as well as
trust,
sacred
our
be
ever
hall
freedo m for which they died s
led our
that
it
was
t
Wha
born."
un
yet
the trust of Freem asons
gton
Lexin
from
~rethren to g~ve up ~heir lives in the fight for freedo m
ed
enabl
values
al
m 1775 to Vietn am in 1964? Wha t moral and spiritu
n,
inatio
determ
ible
our brethr en to displa y such fortitu de in trial. invinc

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNI A

219

victor y each time?
unma tched coura ge? Wha t enabled them to win the
of those value s:
some
imed
The words of Cong ress Ju ly 6, 1775, procla
dition al subuncon
an
ing
choos
f
o
"We ·are reduced to the altern ative
by force. nce
resista
or
.
ers
minist
ed
missio n to the tyran ny of irritat
cost o f th is conte st,
The la tter is our choice . - We have count ed the
- Hono r. justic e,
and find nothin g so dread ful as volun tary slaver y.
m which we
freedo
and huma nity, forbid us tamel y to surren der that
ent poste rity
innoc
our
which
receiv ed from our gallan t ances tors. and
has a right to receive from us."
from one end of
Wha t was it that ins pired our breth ren in battle
unsha keable
son's
Jeffer
in
nswer
a
the
d
fin
the world to the other? We
ht and
thoug
m of
faith in the goodn ess of man, in man's right to freedo
when
field
battle
action . We find it in Lincoln's words at the Getty sburg
our
for
m
freedo
f
o
he called upon all assem bled to insu re a new birth
nation .
the breth ren.
It was those moral and social vir tues which cemen ted
inevit ably
which
m
freedo
of
love
the
It was a regard for justic e and
ry count
their
for
lives
their
give
to
dead
impel led those honor ed
m
freedo
of
ce
essen
for our coun try. Let us, then. never forget that the
ain
entert
ideas,
own
is the libert y it gives to the indivi dual to form his
ior, choos e his own
behav
of
ns
patter
own
his
ish
establ
s,
belief
own
his
om mean s more
Freed
es.
quenc
cours e of action - and take the conse
responsibil ity
the
ual
d
indivi
the
on
than relief from restra int - it places
encou rages
It
.
ement
dvanc
a
and
ness
of achiev ing his own happi
and indeliance
self-re
ops
devel
It
.
rance
tempe
nd
prude nce, cautio n a
that in a
ber
remem
pende nce of spirjt. Certa inly, we must alway s
limita and
tions
ica
societ y as complex as ours there must be some modif
,
ington
Wash
e
Georg
er,
tions o f freedom. It was our illus trious Broth
ion
adopt
the
g
urgin
ress
Cong
to
letter
who pointe d this out so well. in his
ng into societ y
of the Unite d S tates Cons titution : " Individuals enteri
The magn itude of
must give up a share of libert y to preser ve the rest.
and cir<:um stance s
the sacrifice must depen d a s weil on the situat ion
e upon ourselves
as on the objec t to be obtain ed." And so do we impos
to our neigh bor
injury
nt
a nd our freedo m s uch restric tions as w ill preve
plish this
accom
we
m
freedo
of
or to his liberty , but in the true spirit
law.
the
by
and
n,
best, by self-re strain t, by public opinio
huma n progress
It has been well said that freedo m is essen tial to
of those who
front
re
fo
the
in
een
b
lways
a nd that Maso ns have a
which would
ts
nmen
gover
of
nt
ishme
establ
the
for
advoc ated and fou ght
es. which
liberti
prote ct their citizen s in the exerci se o f their God given
own
their
carve
nd
a
lives
would enable those citize ns to live their own
ul
mindf
s
alway
being
s,
talent
destin ies a s best serves them and their
.
of the equiv alent rights of their neig hbors
y, V irtue and
But, my brethr en, with our dedica tion to Freem asonr
w hat a re we doUnive rsal Benev olence . and to the Cause of Freed om,

GRJ\ND LODGE. OP CJ\LIP ORNIJ \

220

PROCE EDING S OP THE

was busy trimm ing
ing? I am remin ded of the story of the farme r who
when a strang er
wicks and filling his lamps with keros ene one day.
a conve rsatio n
into
stopp ed to ask for a drink of water . They entere d
r still used
farme
the
that
and the strang er said he was surpri sed to see
ble.
availa
was
kerose ne lamps when rural electr icifka tion
"Don 't you want it?" he asked .
ever need it,
" Oh," the farme r replied. "We' ve got it in case we
never run out
but so far we haven 't had to use it becau se we have
of kerosene."
powe r and light
We smile at the farme r who had a sourc e of great
encies. so he
emerg
for
which he did not use. H e thoug ht it was only
chore s by
his
doing
ws,
shado
nd
a
contin ued living his life in darkn ess
right at
was
this
from
him
g
savin
of
his own ·s weat when the mean s
have.
We
ves?
oursel
about
what
but
r,
farme
the
hand. Yes , we smile at
.
today
hand
r at
but for the asking , the greate st sourc e of light and powe
the
to
ned
happe
has
What has ha ppene d to the " attent ive ear?" Wha t
was thoro ughly
fellowcraft w ho was an exper ienced builde r, who
lative Maso nry
specu
In
trade?
his
fam iliar with the skills and tools of
symbo lized by
are
which
ples
princi
these skills are the moral and social
ssion.
profe
the worki ng tools of our
to the Unite d
Dr. Charl es M a lik, former Amba ssado r of Leban on
ican UniAmer
the
States and diostinguished Profe ssor of Philo sophy at
ship
leader
oping
devel
on
versit y of Beirut, Lebanon, in a great speec h
would
years
five
for
d
abroa
g
in new count ries, said. "An exper t servin
return ing home
consi der his mission brillia ntly accom plishe d if after
if they were
ially
espec
ds'
'frien
few
a
made
he could boast that he had
, to 'organ served
he
whom
ies
agenc
the
d
helpe
in 'key positions.' and
·s pirit of efthe
ize' more efficiently. Did he impar t a ny spirit other than
and deep?
g
lastin
ficiency? Did he inspir e his ' friend s' with anyth ing
integr ity.
some
ness.
gentle
Can he say that he impar ted to them some
becau se
that
boast
he
Can
cter?
some purity of living . some saintl y chara
ucted
constr
only
not
have
they
e
cultur
his
they have now know n him and
and
art
of
ments
monu
great
d
erecte
have
they
road s and dams. but
them
to
on
passe d
emba rked on w riting great wo rks of reaso n? H as he
. of trust instea d
hatred
of
d
instea
love
of
ing.
suffer
t
patien
of
the spirit
found? It never
is
it
ver
where
of suspicion, and of openn ess to the truth
whats oever .
tance
impor
or
nce
occur s to him that all this has any releva
not rain
did
it
why
by
than
ions
quest
He is no more bothe red by these
of the
rest
the
with
ct
conta
its
in
West
the
last Tuesd ay. When will
sion
dimen
a
cter,
world recov er the dimen sion of spirit, depth , chara
other
any
in
than
inhere nt in it more wond erfull y and more origin ally
civilization in the world ?"
nic teachl ng·s let
There fore, in like mann er, in the light of our Maso
ht man? Each
uprig
and
just
a
I
am
us ask: Am I indee d exem plary;
distre ssed and
the
whom
to
one
the
I
"Am
lf.
one of us must ask himse

221

I truste d becau se
the needy instinctively turn for help and advic e?" Am
practi ce outsid e
I speak truthf ully and yet comp assion ately? Do I daily
ated in it?
of the Lodge those great moral truths which are inculc
, let us elevat e
today
hall
And, so, my brethr en. as we leave this
more. with
once
read
and
r
our eyes towar d the Supre me Grand Maste
e, those
resolv
ed
renew
with
ion,
better under stand ing . with self-d edicat
word s :
"THI S TEM PLE
AND
DED ICAT ED TO FREE MAS ONR Y, VIRT UE.
SE OF
CAU
UNIV ERSA L BEN EVO LEN CE THA T THE
L EVE R BE
FREE DOM FOR WHI CH THE Y DIED SHAL
BRET HRE N
THE REIN THE SACR ED TRU ST OF THE IR
"
ORN
UNB
AND OF FREE MAS ONS YET
n.
The Gran d Orati on was received with a stand ing ovatio
printe d
have
to
tary
Secre
Grand
the
ed
direct
r
Maste
The Grand
e.
Lodg
Grand
of
copie s of the oratio n made available to the memb ers

REPO RT OF COM MIT TEE ON COR RESP OND ENC

E

rnia:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. 6 A. M . of Califo
California
the
hed
publis
has
Lodge
Grand
For eleven years this
the prine
becom
has
erly
quart
this
of
ation
public
ugh
Freemason. Altho
been
not
has
on
cipal activi ty of this committee, its origin al functi
and
d
studie
been
have
s
negle cted and proce eding s of sister jurisd iction
ine.
intere sting extrac ts publis hed in the magaz
by Grand Lodge
The California Freemason was officially autho rized
the maga zine be
that
ing
provid
tion
resolu
the
in 1955 ( C.M. C. § 334d)
r direct s. Our
publis hed quarte rly and distrib uted as the Gran d Maste
on amon g the
positi
Gran d Lodge ma gazin e has achiev ed an outsta nding
ago during
years
eleven
ion
official Maso nic public ations since its incept
Jr.
,
ell
Harw
the term of Past Gra nd Maste r Frank
ghout the world
It has been pleasa nt to have M a sonic leade rs throu
ected testim onial
tell us of their good opinio n o f our public ation. An unexp
quest ionna ire to
a
was recen tly forthc oming . Willia m R. Densl ow sent
every Maso nic
and
the forty- nine Gran d Secre taries in the Unite d States
tha t they
ations
public
nic
Maso
ten
editor . He asked them to list the
his own
de
exclu
they
that
sted
reque
stly
consid ered the best. He mode
rence
Confe
est
Midw
the
At
n.
Maso
Arch
l
Roya
excellent magaz ine The
103
with
d
secon
he revea led the result s. The California Freem ason was
d
blishe
esta
long
and
votes, only 13 behin d the winne r. an excellent
.
votes
magaz ine. The third maga zine receiv ed 86
which is sent
Many Maso nic jurisd iction s now publish a magaz ine
true of the
ially
espec
is
This
s.
Lodge
tuent
consti
to the members of all
ia,
ylvan Virgi nia,
large and impor tant Gran d Lodge s. New York , Penns

222

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Kentucky, Georgia. Oklahoma and Illinois are some of ·the· jurisdictjons
which have such publicntions. Two years ago T exas joined this group.
At that time the Grand Master of that State informed his Grand Lodge
that aside from the desirability of providing each member with a Masonic
publication the importance of maintaini ng a central mailing list of members is an absolute necessity for the future opera tion of Grand Lodge.
The new Texas magazine is an outstanding example of Maso nic journalism. It has adopted some of the policies we have endeavored to follow.
Thus it has declared: " For the most part, we must leave the learned
treatises to the scholars and the Research Lodges. We must not over-do
the material on ritual. We must carefully weigh material of interest
only to Lodge Officers. We must avoid that which is interesting to one
section of the State but of no real interest in oth er sections. W e must try
to appeal to those who attend Lodge but never try to appeal only to
those who do."
The avowed purposes of the Texas Magazine a re very similar to our
own. Paraphrasing the statement of purpose we say: The sole purpose
of California Freemason is to strengthen, support and serve Blue Masonry. It has no other purpose.
In serving this purpose. California Freemason is dedicated to: {I )
keeping Masons, their families and friends inform ed on Masonic activities, issues and programs; ( 2) promoting and cultivating Masonic
thinking, acting and living; (3) encouraging Masons to improve themselves as individuals and as a community of men, bound together by
the fraternal ties of Brotherhood under the Fatherhood of God: ( 4)
inspiring all Masons to increased civic endeavor and better citizenship.
that the world at large may be a better place for all mankind to live.
At the request of the Grand Master we obtained firm bids for the
preparation and mailing the magazine of the same format as used during
the past year to all members of the California Lodges. The unit cost
decreases as the quantity increases. We have a firm bid to print the
four issues for a total of .196c per subscription. Mailing bids provide for
mailing at a unit price of .029c and postage would amount to .022c.
This would make a total unit price of 24.7 cents per subscription.
The number of Lodges which send the magazine to their entire membership has gradually increased. This year the Grand Master set the
contribution to be remitted by these Lodges at 50 cents per member as
shown on the official return for the previous year.
The Lodges now operating under this group plan are:
10, 12, 13. 17. 25, 27, 33. 55, 57, 70, 78, 80. 81. 91. 95, 99. 104. 110.
123, 124. 129. 143. 164, 169. 173, 175, 180. 186, 190, 193, 195, 198. 200,
202 . 203, 205, 207. 208, 209,211, 218, 220. 221 , 228, 231, 233, 236, 240.
253,254,255.256, 259, 262, 265. 267, 271, 275 , 277, 293, 294. 300, 303,
309,312, 314,318. 320,325, 327.328, 329, 333. 334, 339, 348, 352. 354,
359,361,362,372, 383 ,384, 385,391,393. 395,402, 408, 409. 410. 421,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

223

425 . 427,428. 436.446. 447,458,459. 467,469. 471,472. 473. 493. 504.
513 519 524 531 532, 546 555. 561. 573. 580. 582, 586. 587, 589, 596.
598: 611:614: 617:622, 626, 628,634, 635, 636, 637, 644, 645. 647, 656 .
658. 659.660. 666,672. 677, 680,687. 689. 693. 702. 705 . 707. 710. 717.
719 720. 722 , 731, 732, 735. 739, 742, 746. 751. 758. 760. 765. 766, 767,
769: 772. 774. 776, 777, 779, 780. 781. 782. 783, 786, 794 . 800, 801, 803.
804. 806, 807, 814.
These 184 Lodges have a membership of 51 .232.
As of June 30. 1964 there we re 31.134 regu lar subscribers at the rate
of $1.00 per year.' reduced 25 cents per year after the first four additional
.
.
years paid in advance.
This is our financial report for the year endmg June 30. 1964 ·
EXPENDITURES
CosT oF OBTAINING SuascRIPTIONS:

Printing ...................................................... ...... $ 3,477.29
Postage ............................................................ 1,987 .50
Clerical .......................................................... .. 7.862.57
Address plates ................................. ................ . 5, l 03.08

-----

$18 .430.44

CosT oP PRODU CING MAGAZINE:

Printing ..... ................. ................ ................... ... $33, 740.16
l 87 .61
Pictures and art work.................................... ..
960.04
Editorial expense..............................................

$34.887.81

CosT oF D1sTRIB UTION :

Mailing experrse .............................................. $ 3.109.19
Postage ............................................................ 1,572.54

$ 4.681.73
$57,999.98

INCOME
...................... $25,928.00
Subscriptions
Lodge
from
Collected
Collected from Individual Subscriptions.............. 19.733.88
Deficit for year ........

$45.661.88
$12,338.10

.
. _
We request that Grand Lodge absorb this deficit.
There is at present a reserve fund for unexpired subscnptio~s m the
sum of $40,108.81. The auditors report that the _31,139 subsrnbers on
the list would require 253,877 individual copies to complete their
. .
subscriptions.
In making an analysis of the 1964 figures . the figures for pr'.nt'.ng
seems to be high and on checking it was discovered that the last prmtmg
bill for 1963 ha d been held over and paid in 1964. For purposes of

224

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RESUME OF COSTS
comparison these figures of $7,410.52 for printing and $887.03 mailing
were transferred from 1963 to 1964.
FIVE YEARS PUBLICATION
( 1963 and 1964 adjusted by transferring printing and mailing payments to the correct fiscal year.)
I 960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Subscription
Costs -----·------$18,315.36 $17,912.37 $26,929.16 $16,771.28 $18.430.34
Production
Costs --------···· 30,163.18 32,129.23 33,306.81 31.556.63 27.477.46
Distribution
Costs -········-·- 3,465.18
3.395.04
3,476.46
3.869.65
3.794.70
TOTAL .... $51,943.72 $53.443.64 $63,712.43 $52,197.56 $49,702.50
RECEIPTS
Lodges .......... $27,855.96 $27,812.65 $27,311.40 $26,382.90 $25,928.00
Individual -·-· 31,586.45 40,659.01 35,275.70 22,457.87 19,753.88
TOTAL . ..$59,442.41 $68,4 71.66 $62,587.10 $48.840. 77 $45.681.88
Excess or
Deficit .......... $ 7.498.69 $15,028.02 ( $1.125.33) ( $3356.79) ( $4.020.62)
Blanket
168
Lodges ---·-·-·-·
Membership .. 44,625
Individual
Subscribers .. 78,883

175
45,795

177
45,471

162
43.681

184
51,232

81.120

80,784

77.362

82 .366

Total Paid
Subscribers .. 79,883
8 l.120
80,784
77,362
82,366
There is now $40.108.81 in the rese.r ve for advance subscriptions
This is to pay for sending the magazine to members who have paid up
subscriptions. Over half of these run only through the next current year
and only 9% run longer than the fiscal year after that.
As far as the committee is concerned we have no recommendations to
make for the coming year. We are pleased to work under the direction of
each succeeding Grand Master and will continue to produce as creditable
a magazine as possible.
Respectfully submitted.
NEWCOMB CoNDEE
GEORGE W. BuiKH, JR.
JOHN WuLLSCHLEGER
MAURICE B. .Ross
RALPH T. MERRIAM
CLEMENT L. C.\RTER
s. L. CHANNON
Referred to Committee on Finance.

225

REPORT OF BOARD OF
LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Board of Library Commissioners herewith submits its report
for the year 1963-64.
LIBRARY ACQUISITIONS
The Library acquired by gift this year 161 volumes and by purchase.
at a cost of $200.36. 42 other volumes. Chiefly. the purchased volumes
are for general circulation among the brethren ; only one is a long-needed
reference book.
Among books acquired by gift were:
.
Sacred Books and Early Literature of the East, 13 volumes. gift of
Brother Charles C. Goodale.
Proceedings of the M idwest Conference on Masonic Education . 8
volumes, gift of Iowa Masonic Library.
Several histories of lodges, published in connection with their centennial celebrations. gifts of the lodges concerned.
.
Several books dealing with Hawaii and one rare and valuable Brief
History of the Scottish Rite. acquired from the library of the late Grand
Master Atkinson.
ACCESSION OF BOOKS
Accession of all volumes in the Library was completed, insofar as
the accession list of any growing library can ever be completed . and
shows we closed the year with a total of 2,349 books and pamphlets.
This list of books is of special value for insurance purposes; in event of
any loss by fire or otherwise it will enable us to make an exact claim for
compensation.
MusEUM AcQUISITIONS
The Library also gained a number of valuable Museum items. Amo ng
these were the ballot box. original minute book. one gavel and one apron
used by the extinct Bodie Lodge No. 252 which was located in the
(now) ghost town of Bodie.
. .
Two very handsome silver trowels used by Grand Master Wilham
W. Traylor in laying the cornerstones of the courthouses of Stockton
and Los Angeles. in 1879.
.
A 33rd degree jewel once belonging to Dr. J. D. Kergan . of Detroit,
the gift of Mrs. Josephine Kergan.
THE ADAMS PAPERS
We were also the recipients of the Masonic papers of the late Past
Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, comprising 151 items dealing
with Mexican Masonry. Negro Masonry, Public Schools Week- which
it will be remembered he founded- and some general addresses made
by him on Masonic subjects.
These papers are being placed in a special file as THE ADAMS CoL-

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
226

227

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

able for exam inatio n
LECTION. They will not be circu lated but a re avail
these paper s a re
ial.
mater
e
sourc
by qualified Maso nic stude nts. As
made publi c.
been
never
have
hich
w
inval uable . espec ially one or two
and prese rvatio n of
In this conne ction we point out that collec tion
whic h the Boar d of
such Maso nic mate rial is one of the dutie s with
create d . Sever al
was
it
Libra ry Comm ission ers was charg ed when
had no safe
they
which
for
ial
lodge s have alrea dy entru sted to us mater
facilities
our
that
e
Lodg
d
Gran
d
remin
and adeq uate prote ction and we
for this are alway s availa ble.
U sE OF LIBRARY
loane d to breth ren
Sligh tly more than 10 per cent more book s were
past, reque sts for book s
this year than in the prece ding year. As in the
a few have come from
have come from all parts of the jurisd iction a nd
grow th in circu lation
Calif ornia M asons residi ng in other states . This
there still are many
that
find
to
of book s is gratif ying but it is ama zing
them. We woul d
to
able
avail
is
e
breth ren who do not realiz e this servic
anyw here in the
ing
resid
n
Maso
ornia
Calif
like to reiter ate that any
ry on simpl e reque st
United State s may borro w book s from this Libra
neces sary posta ge to
by mail or in perso n and at no cost other than
return s.
these
for
retur n the book. We even furnis h conta iners
Resea rch Chai rsters,
a
M
ul
shipf
We reque st the assis tance of Wor
to the atten tion
this
ing
bring
in
men
men and Maso nic Educ ation Chair
of their lodge s.
REFERENCE S ERVICE
g incre asing use
Your Boar d is also gratif ied that breth ren a re makin
ral a re alrea dy regul ar
of the refere nce vol umes in our Libra ry. Seve
visito rs.
inqui ries for gener al
The Libra ry staff has also receiv ed sever al
Maso nry. and has
of
ts
aspec
inform ation , or infor matio n on specific
ries have cause d
inqui
these
of
Some
ble.
respo nded as accur ately as possi
answ er. A few inqui ries.
us to instit ute mino r resea rch proje cts to find the
come from outsi de the
inclu ding some from DeM olay members, have
was prope r.
frater nity and have been answ ered as fully as
VISITORS TO LIBRARY AND MusE UM
year
persons regis tering at the Libra ry durin g the
of
The numb er
ssible
impo
is
It
year.
was 1,182. not quite as many as in the prece ding
by these regis tratio ns.
to say how many indiv iduals are repre sente d
whole families. Thes e
even
or
ns.
Many entrie s invol ve sever al perso
d State s a nd many
Unite
all
ically
pract
from
visito rs inclu de Maso ns
er of non-M asons .
foreig n jurisd iction s as well as a surpr ising numb
the museum displ ays
The numb er of visito rs to the Temp le who view
Libra ry canno t be
the
into
outsi de the Libra ry door but do not come
le and the many
Temp
the
of
use
estim ated but. consi derin g the heavy
thous ands.
the
in
be
must
total
the
over
touris ts who come to look it

STAFFING THE LmRARY
er Andr ew E . H . Burn s. who had been keepi ng
Broth
Durin g the year
er city and was repla ced
the Libra ry open each M onda y. move d to anoth
r Simp son offere d his
by Broth er Thom as S cogla nd. La ter Broth er Arthu
ng the Libra ry open
keepi
been
assist ance and now for sever al mont hs has
ding, Broth er Wilprece
years
al
sever
for
on Tues days. Wed nesd ays. as
dutie s as a memb er
his
to
tion
addi
in
is
This
e.
liam H . Scott has had charg
of mailing out books .
of the Libra ry Comm ission and the entire work
on book retur ns.
up
recor ding and answ ering reque sts and check ing
every W ednes day
lly
virtua
Broth er Willi am H. McM aster has s pent
guing the volcatalo
and
book
sion
at the Libra ry. keepi ng up the acces
umes on hand or acqui red.
assist ing Broth er
Broth er Philip Salzm an has spent many days
the staff of anon
is
he
M cMas ter. This servic e is espec ially usefu l as
other . much large r, librar y in San Franc isco.
gentl emen .
The thank s of the Comm ission are due to all these
a probl em. Many
be
to
nues
conti
ry
Libra
Howe ver, the staffing of the
open, particu~
not
is
ry
Libra
the
when
days
on
perso ns visit the T emple
if breth ren,
nry
of Maso
larly on week ends. It woul d be to the adva ntage
days.
these
on
assist
not neces sarily Past Mast ers, could volun teer to
FINANCES- OPERATING EXPENSE
ting expen se last
The appro priati on made to the Libra ry for opera
balan ce unex~
small
a
n
year was $950. Of this. we were able to retur
sions in our
expan
in
certa
pende d. Howe ver, becau se we antic ipate
priati on of
appro
s
mend
recom
again
activi ties th is y~ar, the Comm ission
The Com65.
1964year
the
in
ses
expen
this sum. $950. for opera ting
differ ently from the
mission wishe s to dispo se of this total some what
same . Detai ls are given
alloca tion made this year. but the tota l is the
in the s umm ary which appe ars later.
FINAN CES-CAPITAL INVESTM ENT
charg ed the ComGran d Lodg e. when it estab lished the Libra ry.
prese rvatio n of
for
both
um,
Muse
a
of
missi on with the devel opme nt
fo r the displ ay of items
Maso nic memo rabili a and histor ic mater ial and
c. This is a conti nuati on
of interest to the breth ren and the gener al publi
d Lodg e main taine d for
of the some what ·s ketch y displ ay which Gran
on a much large r scale
but
ue,
years in the Temp le on Van Ness Aven
and a more syste matic basis.
lodge s and indiv idual
The mater ial now on hand, mos tly as the gift of
are no longe r adequ ate.
breth ren , is so exten sive that avail able cases
plans initia ted three
The Comm ission there fore recommends. in line with
gener al muse um
for
case
ay
years ago, the addit ion of a secon d displ
ar in desig n
simil
door,
ry
Libra
material on the mezz anine outsi de the
invol ved
cost
The
.
there
dy
alrea
case
large
and mater ials to the existi ng

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

is $2,407.60, an increase of about $290 over that of the first case purchased three years ago.

building of the Temple, the materials mentioned in the Bible and that the
people of that time had the knowledge and skill necessary for the fabrication of so great and glorious an edifice.

229

MODEL OF SOLOMON'S TEMPLE

Last year Brother Edward A. Hudson. of Paso Robles, offered Grand
Lodge a model of King Solomon's Temple upon which he had expended
some 5,000 hours of time and a considerable sum of money. Your Commission recommended acceptance of this offer and the appropriation of
sufficient money to provide a case in which the model might be displayed.
Grand Lodge saw fit to reject this recommendation because. we
believe, the Brethren were not satisfied that the model was (a) authentic
and ( b) of such workmanship and general excellence as to be compatible
with the beauty and dignity of our magnificent Memorial Temple.
Brother Hudson informed us several months ago that this offer was
still open, that there were no conditions whatever attached to it and
that he would welcome inspection of the model that we might see for
ourselves what he was offering. Accordingly. several Grand Lodge
officers and committeemen made special stops in Paso Robles to inspect
it. They uniformly received such a favorable impression and were so
enthusiastic about the project that your Commission is impelled to
renew its recommendation this year.
Following are some special points to be considered:
1. There are of ·c ourse a number of models of King Solomon's
Temple in existence. based on at least three different interpretations of
the Biblical references.
2. This model is based upon the interpretation of facts given in
First Kings and Second Chronicles by Dr. John Wesley Kelchner, an
archreologist and Biblical scholar. Dr. Kelchner spent many years and
a fortune in money in the study of this great edifice.
3. Dr. Kelchner took his data to the noted architect Harvey Wiley
Corbett, under whose direction they were transformed into a series of
drawing·s, plans and skillful architectural renderings.
4. These drawings and plans were what Brother Hudson followed
in constructing his model. They were also followed in the construction
of the smaller and less elaborate model of the Temple which is now on
display in the Masonic pavilion at the World's Fair in New York.
5. Corbett stated that these drawings, prepared under his supervision, reproduce "exactly the spectacle beheld by the eyes of Solomon
when his workmen had finished." Your Commission is not qualified to
vouch for the accuracy of this statement but we are satisfied that these
plans, and Brother Hudson's model, are as nearly authentic as it is
possible for human genius to achieve at thi·s modern date.
6. As a further assurance of authenticity Brother Hudson, before
beginning construction of this model, visited both Egypt and the Holy
Land to satisfy himself that there were available, at the time of the

ABOUT THE MODEL ITSELF

Brother Hudson's model is no small creation. Built accurately to
scale, it stands 39 inches high, is 37 inches wide and 69 inches long.
In it the details of the Temple are reproduced minutely. The ground
floor of the Temple. the win ding stair, the pillars of the porch and
everything else of Masonic significance are all there. One side of the
model is open, in part, revea ling the Middle Chamber, the H oly of
Holies, the Ark of the Covenant and other items which the Bible says
were within the Temple. Concea led electric lights can be switched on
by viewers to illuminate these.
Your Commission sincerely believes that this model is worthy of our
acceptance and display and that, in the words of one Grand Lodge
officer. "it will direct a lot of favorable attention toward Masonry."
PROTECTING THE MODEL

Naturally. so intricate and valuable a model must be protected from
dust, vermin and souvenir hunters, of whom there are undoubtedly a
number among the many thousands of persons who attend non-Masonic
functions in the Memorial Temple every year, to say nothing of casual
visitors. Your Commission therefore recommends that an appropriation
be made for a suitable case to shelter and protect the model.
Five manuf~cturers were asked whether they cared to bid on ~;uch
a case. One declared itself unable to meet our requirements; three failed
to answer our invitation to bid and only one, the Library Bureau of
Remington Rand, submitted a bid. This is the same organization which
has supplied us with the two cases now in use on the second floor of
this temple and the proposed case would be of similar construction and
compatible design.
Owing to the pressure of time, this Remington Rand bid was fig ured
locally and was offered us as an "outside figure" with verbal assurance
that after study by the bidder's engineering staff in Herlimer, New Yor k,
a substantial reduction might be expected. To be on the safe side, however, your Commission is using in this report the bid as made, $3,344. 12,
with the assurance to Grand Lodge that no more of this amount will be
expended than is necessary.
It should be borne in mind that this is a very large case-nearly 80
inches long , 41 inches deep and 45 inches high. with a base 32 inches
high. In view of prices paid for previous cases, and of the rise in costs
of materials and labor, your Commission feels that the price asked is
reasonable.

230

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DISCOUNT AVAILABLE
mentio ned
Your Comm ission has writte n assura nce that if both cases
will be
we
order,
one
in
and
time,
one
at
d
in this report are ordere
.
figures
round
eligible for a discou nt of 10 per cent. This will save. in
recom
of
ry
umma
s
$575. This discou nt has NOT been consid ered in the
e for it unless
mende d approp riation s below as we will not be eligibl
aken to includ e
undert
we
ve
ha
either
BOTH cases are purch ased at once. N
cent lightin g
fluores
the
to
and
model
the
to
a sum for electrical connec tions
will be only
this
ppears
a
it
use
beca
case
the
of
part
fixture s which are a
a minor matter.
RECOMMENDED
SUMMARY OF OPERATING AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
riation s made
approp
f
o
rison
compa
and
ary
summ
a
Follow ing is
las t year and those recom mende d for th is year:
O PERATING EXPENSE
Printin g and circula rizing. ......... ................................
Librar ian's expen se ............................... ... ..................
Librar y s upplies and postag e........ ......................... .....
Purch ase of books .......... .............................. ..............
Misce llaneo us and contin gent... .................................

CAPITAL INVESTMENT
Additi onal museu m case .......... .......... ....................... .
Case for model of Solom on's T emple ..................... .

1963-6 4
$250
150
150
250
150

1964-6 5
$150
350

$950

$950

1963-64
NONE

1964-6 5

JOO

200
150

$2.407 .60
3,344. 12
$5,751 .72

A CKNOWLEDGM ENTS
to expres s sincer e thanks to the Grand
wishes
ission
Your Comm
a ry. Verne
Secret ary, Edwa rd H. Siems; to the A ssistan t Grand Secret
dually
indivi
office
Lodge
W. Hendr ix, and to the staff of the Grand
truly
and
help
with
us
genero
them
and a s a body. We have found
m
Museu
and
y
Librar
this
in
g
buildin
of
task
ed
co-ope rative in our assign
rnia Mason ic
a great repository of Mason ic ma terial genera lly and Califo
histor y in particu lar.
Respe ctfully submi tted,
DAVID R. LANE
ROBERT H. BURROWS
ALEXANDER HORNE
THOMAS W . S. Wu
WILLIAM H. Scorr
M ERLIN w . DRUCQUER
RUSSELL G. W oRTH
e.
on
Financ
ittee
Referr ed to Comm

231

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON DeMO LAY
rnia :
T o the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of Califo
follow ing
the
make
to
Your Comm ittee on DeMo lay is please d
Lodge
Grand
the
during
report concer ning its a ctivities and observ ations
year just conclu ding.
is the treThe most sig nifican t observation that we have to report
lay relaDeMo
icMason
ur
o
upon
mendo us im pact that has been made
. H is
Heald
.
W
lmer
E
hipful
Wors
t
Mos
tionsh ip by our Grand Mas ter,
p
ionshi
champ
his
and
lay
DeMo
of
Order
the
of
recogn ition of the value
hout
throug
of Mason ic Y outh progra ms during his many visitat ions
the Brethr en
Califo rnia and Hawa ii ha ve broug ht an aware ness to
Lodge of
Grand
this
f
o
belong ing to the Lodge s under the Jurisd iction
unicomm
tive
respec
our
to
only
not
the value of the Order o f DeMolay.
are
asons
M
More
well.
as
ity
fratern
ic
Mason
ties. but to our belove d
been
has
which
work
youth
this
for
s
service
their
eer
beginn ing to volunt
ted brethr en .
suppo rted for the past many years by a handfu l of dedica
where they
areas
in
ers
More Lodge s arc ask ing for DeMo lay Chapt
g of the
ndin
dersta
misun
a
or
pathy
have not existed before becaus e of a
ers.
Chapt
r
sponso
author ity of our Lodge s to
Maste r was
We reca ll one evenin g in particu lar when our G rand
a new Maof
tion
edica
d
the
ing
preced
addres sing the dinner meetin g
beauti ful
truly
a
built
indeed
had
they
that
sonic Templ e. He comm ented
Chapt er
y
eMola
D
no
was
there
that
noted
also
and useful temple . He
the
make
could
in that partic ular comm unity and sug ges ted that they
to
glad
are
We
on.
pictur e compl ete by giving this matter some attenti
there
t.
interes
his
to
part
ge
lar
in
inform the Grand Maste r that, due
in that M asonic
is a fine DeMolay Chapt er under dispen sation meetin g
r. we a re sure
furthe
igate
invest
to
time
the
had
T emple today. If we
in Califo rnia
tha t most of the new Chapt ers tha t have come into being
part to his
in
nce
and H awaii during th is past year owe their existe
for many.
heart
his
to
close
enthus iasm for this O rder that has been
many years.
l Conve nActivi ties s uch as the Califo rnia State and Jurisdi ctiona
and an
Fairs.
y
Count
and
tions. DeMo lay activit ies a t the State
were
events
social
and
c
athleti
ritual.
increa sing number of outsta nding
were
ies
activit
these
that
report
to
happy
nre
e
W
critica lly observ ed.
be
can
ternity
ra
condu cted in a most credit able ma nner. The Masonic F
justly proud of its associ ation with these functio ns.
Lodge is
The Annua l DeMo lay Week recogn ized by this Grand
of the Govachiev ing acclaim by govern ment agenci es from the office
s. The San
palitie
ernor to the heads of a large portion of our munici
ance of
observ
onal
traditi
D iego Count y M asonic Office rs' Assoc iation
for
iation
apprec
ic
Mason
of
le
examp
D eM olay Vv eek remain s a classic
nship.
relatio
olay
ic-DeM
the value of a strong Mason

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP C: ALIPOR NIA

The Northe rn Califor nia DeMol ay Show and Band played to capacful
ity audien ces throug hout Califor nia and conduc ted a most success
States.
tour of the United
d
The Southe rn Califor nia Past Master s Associ ation has adopte
.
project
an active DeMo lay progra m as their major
t
The Order of DeMo lay is to be highly comme nded for its diligen
Lodge.
Grand
this
by
d
adopte
les
princip
ic
observ ance of the high Mason
during
Your commi ttee has not recei ved a single compla int of any kind
year.
past
this
ChapT oday the Order of DeMol ay has grown until there are 294
active
men
young
16,000
over
ters in Califor nia and H a'\vaii with well
young
of
s
consist
Order
the
that
er
in them. When you stop to consid
rship at
men 14 to 21 years of age and that it mu st renew its membe
ss.
progre
indeed
is
this
years,
five
every
least once in
give
The statisti cal story of Mason ry for the past few years should
of
period
a
During
ity.
us some concer n for the future of our fratern
is
This
even.
g
breakin
barely
are
rapidly expand ing popula tion, we
the
at
look
you
when
t
eviden
self
are
a bleak picture . The reason s
e age
averag e age of our membe rship of about 52 years and the averag
should
reason
greater
What
years.
42
of
s
degree
the
for
nts
of the applica
the fine
we have for taking a serious interes t in our youth. particu larly
of
Order
the
in
life
of
way
ic
young men being trained in our Mason
cjurisdi
our
in
ent
movem
ay
DeMol
s
DeMo lay. A healthy and vigorou
could
,
ry
Mason
by
nt
ageme
encour
and
t
suppor
tion. given enthus iastic
trend in
well be a major factor in reversi ng our presen t discou raging
membe rship .
ota
In closing we would like to quote an article from the Minnes
Mason titled "Our Boys":
.
"A youth is a person who is going to carry on what you ha ve started
attend
gone.
are
you
when
and,
sitting
are
you
where
sit
to
He is going
all the
to those things which you think are import ant. You may adopt
him .
on
s
depend
out
policies you please. but how they will be carried
to
going
is
He
nation.
and
states,
He will assume control of your cities.
acorpor
and
ities
univers
.
schools
es.
move in and take over your church
ned by
tions. All your books are going to be judged . praised or condem
him
pay
to
him. The fate of human ity is in his hands so it migh t be well
some attenti on."
Respec tfully submit ted.

REPO RT OF THE COMM ITTEE ON SOJO URNE RS

232

HOMER E. RATHB UN
Roy H . GERAR D
WEND ELL M . ANDER SON
WI LLIAM M. KETTER INGHAM

LESTER G. BRUNO
HAROL D S. MEDO
CLYDE PATEN AUDE
DONAL D E. THOMA S
FRANK H. WHAL EN
KIMBE LL
RAY

s.

ROBER T LINTNE R
DARRE LL DIXON
PANCO CK
ARTHU R

Referr ed to Comm ittee on Financ e.

J.

233

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califor nia:
Our Grand Master . in his letter of last Decem ber 3rd, to the Master
interes t
elect of each Lodge, pointed to the necessi ty of "rekind ling
and to
e
among those Master Mason s" who have fallen by the waysid
a
ctions.
Jurisdi
other
locate a nd inspire in the Sojour ners. those from
a
charted
letter
His
tions.
sincere desire to rene\v their Mason ic associa
the
for
e
directiv
basic
the
shed
course for all M asters- elect and establi
used in
activiti es of your Comm ittee on Sojour ners. (Sojou rner. when
.)
ctions
Jurisdi
other
from
s
Mason
Master
to
this report, refers
es.
The 1963 Report of the Specia l Commi ssion on Mason ic Practic
Comyour
by
guide
a
as
used
was
t.
though
for
which offers much food
the indimittee. A threefo ld progra m was develo ped and publish ed to
impleto
used
be
e
vidual Lodges with the sugges tion that loca l initiativ
sive
aggres
an
of
tion
prosecu
ment the sugges ted proced ures for the
progra m.
by
1st. To conduc t a census or registr ation of the Sojour ners and
your
in
pate
partici
nd
a
visit
per·s onal contac t to invite those located to
adoptactivities. A slogan. "Regis ter our Sojour ners in Sixty Four," was
of
Master
the
to
uted
distrib
were
cards
ration"
ed and "Sojou rner Regist
d.
followe
be
to
ures
proced
ting
sugges
letter
Cl
each Lodge with
and
2d. To a ugmen t the r itualist ic work by develo ping interes ting
ation.
particip
family
for
ms
progra
r
sponso
to
nd
a
instruc tive meetin gs
ms were
Sugge! ;ted proced ures for the develo pment of Lodge progra
."
anyone
hurt
never
distrib uted and it was empha sized that "A little fun
memthe
3d. To follow up the progra m with oral presen ta tions by
to inspire
bers of the Comm ittee. before all possibl e Masonic gatheri ngs.
the prote
prosecu
to
and encour age the Officer s of the severnl Lodges
rs
membe
the
.
riation
approp
ed
increas
gram to the fullest. Thank s to an
these
that
felt
is
it
and
visits
many
make
to
of your Comm ittee were able
beyond
persona l contac ts have been instrum ental in produc ing results far
that genera ted by letter only.
.
I regret to report that the Registr ation Drive met with little success
main
the
of
one
gh
Althou
ise.
otherw
or
tanding
ers
misund
h
either throug
of our
objecti ves o f this drive was to obtain an approx imate census
the
with
ner
Sojour
located
Sojour ners. it was also aimed at inspirin g the
aregistr
and
out
ng
searchi
The
desire to renew his Mason ic a ssociat ions.
uted.
prosec
y
activel
be
tion of our Sojour ners should
reI am pleased to report there has been develo ped an increas ed aw<1
us.
to
le
availah
have
we
ners
Sojour
of
ir
ness and interes t in the reservo
urisdic
J
other
from
s
Mason
r
(Maste
ons
affiliati
In 1964 our Sojour ner
The
1960.
since
r
numhe
t
highes
the
853,
to
777
from
ed
tions) increas
are
Lodges and Mason ic Dis tricts which contrib uted most to this record
A."
..
t
shown on the attache d table marked Exhibi

234

235

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This tabulation shows the Lodges and the number of Sojourner affiliations made by each, up to four. The Lodges with from one to three
affiliations each are not listed separately to conserve space. There are
304 Lodges in this category with a total of 454 Sojourner affiliations.
or over half of our total gains. This indicates how little things can count
up and that a few affiliations by the many will more than outweigh larger
numbers by a few. It is the work of the many that counts.
The following Lodges, which were given honorable mention in the
1963 Report by my esteemed predecessor. Brother Cohendet. equaled
or excelled their 1963 Sojourner affiliations: Home No. 721-9; Arcadia
No. 547-8; Lemon Grove No. 736-8; Table Mountvin No. 124---6;
Palo Alto No. 346-6; Palm Springs No. 693-6; Consuelo No. 3255; Magnolia Park No. 715-4; and Oak Plains No. 789-4. Outstanding this year are: Great Lights U.D.-22; ManhattC1n U.D.-11; Frank
S. Land U.D.-10; and Las Palmas No. 366-9.
The following Masonic Districts, which were given honorable mention in 1963. are on the 1964 "hit parade" with 15 Sojourner affiliations
each: Yucaipa No. 605. Lemon Grove No. 638. and La Jolla No. 644.
Outstanding this year are: Van Nuys No. 516-29; San Jose No. 370-27; Burbank No. 520-26; Santa Barbara No. 508-22; El Segundo
No. 584-22; San Diego No. 640-16; and Palo Alto No. 368-15.
The Sixth Division and the State of Hawaii have the distinction of
having at least one Sojourner affiliate in each of their several Lodges.
Each Masonic District, in ·which every Lodge had one or more affiliates,
is given special notation on Exhibit "A."

joumer and other affiliations) is a descending curve. These two curves
practicall y intersect in 1964, when the net Gains were only five.
The Gain Curve shows a slight upward trend in 1964, due to increased Sojourner and other affiliations. This upward trend can be continued by putting increased effort into the Sojourner progra m. We can
do nothing to stop the rise in the Death curve. We can help reduce our
Losses through withdrawals and suspensions by a more liberal inter~
pretation and application of the C.M.C. relative to suspensions fo r nonpayment of dues. We can increase our Gains by aggressive ac tion to
locate Sojourners and sell them on California Masonry. By this double
action we can avoid o r red uce the deficit in our membership that inaction
will produce.
Fear of the examination still keeps many Sojourners from attending
Lodge. We still hear stories of overzealous examining committees that
seem to try to prove how much they know, to the detrime nt of the
Sojourner. Committee members should be instructed not to " throw the
book" but with patience and understanding ascer tain if the applican t is
a Mason and not how much he knows.
Many have suggested that the $25.00 affiliation fee for the Maso nic
Homes be eliminated, as it is a deterrent to affiliations. There may be
some truth to this, but the Sojourner affiliations by Lodges which charge
their own fee hardly bear th is out. Over 350 of o ur Lodges charge from
$1.00 to $75.00 for affiliation. Last year the 25 Lodges with a $25.00
fee affiliated 41 or 1.6 per Lodge; the 13 with a $15.00 fee affiliated 25
or 1.9 per Lodge; the 184 Lodges with a fee of from $1.00 to $9.00 affiliated only 186 or o ne per Lodge as against the overall average of 1.2 .
These figures are surprising and seem to indicate that it is what is offered
that counts rather than the cost. It would hardly be consistent to eliminate the Home fee while so many Lodges have a substantial affi liation
fee and appear to be above average in their Sojourner affiliations. This
matter is worthy of fu r ther study.
It has been suggested that other jurisdictions furnish us w ith the
names and addresses of their Sojourning members. The Sojourner and
his rela ted problems ha ve been discussed at the ann ual Grand Masters'
Conference for years, without specific results. There is no easy solution.
A start might be made if a Lodge Secretary notified the Lodge nea r the
residence of his Sojourning member with a request that he be contacted
and invited to visit. He could also offer to reciprocate. This could become
very involved and cumbersome. It is believed that better and q uicker
results will be obtained if we give public notice of the time and p lace
of our meetings and if we continue to seek out the Sojourner du ring our
everyday activities. A watchful eye for a ring or a pin, follow ed by a
word of greeting and a friend ly invitation to visit will produce s ur prising
results.
The Sojourner program is a continuing one and cannot be solved in

It is disturbing to note that 332 Lodges and 22 Masonic Districts
failed to affiliate a single Sojourner. This is somewhat understandable
in the Mother Lode Country and the sparsely settled mountainous
regions. In the other areas, with our exploding population. it would
appear that the exercise of a little interest and effort would add at least
one Sojourner to the rolls of each Lodge.
It has been said that in the populated metropolitan areas it is more
difficult to secure affiliations than in the smaller communities. A rough
check of the location of the Lodges with the greater number of Sojourner
affiliations indicated somewhat of an equal division between the heavily
and lightly populated areas. This would lead one to the suspicion that
it is the interest and the effort displayed that produces results and not
the population.
Much has been said about the declining membership of this jurisdiction. To present a picture of this decline, the Gain and Loss figures from
the Grand Secretary's Membership Summary have been plotted by year
from 1958 to date. This graph is attached, marked Exhibit "B." The
line showing the Total Losses (deaths, withdrawals, etc.) is an ascending curve. The line showing the Total Gains (raised, reinstated, So-

PROCE EDING S OP THE

236

. It will take the
one application or by one Committeeman in each Lodge
d be reque sted to
work of many. The Sojou rner, when located, shoul
must all unite to
search out those with whom he comes in conta ct. We
of fellowship,
hand
the
d
locate the Sojou rning Brethren. we must exten
that we have
and
them
in
sted
intere
prove by our actions that we are
nry.
Maso
ornia
something that they need- Calif
under the leadThe Sojou rner progr am has gotten an excellent start
ege of workprivil
the
had
have
who
ership of our Grand Maste r. We,
oppor tunity
the
for
n
ciatio
appre
our
ss
expre
to
ing on this program . wish
and Lodge
rs
to be of service and to thank the Inspectors, Lodge Office
With out
rt.
suppo
and
Sojou rner Chair men for their intere st, coope ration
d.
plishe
accom
been
ha\·e
this "gras sroots " activi ty nothin g would
Respe ctfull y subm itted ,
DAVID H. BLAKE LOCK
WILL IAM A. CoHE NDET

BENJ AMIN T. SALM ON

JoHN R1cHM OND

W /\LLAC E F. PowE RS

HowA RD CAMP EN

JosEP H P. DENN EHY

JAY A. ROBIN SON

RAYM OND A. EBDAG E

JAMES

c. WHIT E

ERNE ST READ

ALVIN A. HoRw EGE

JAMES E. SEAY

G. B. GORD ON, JR.

JAMES DURN FORD

EowtN H. Mosst NGER

WILL IAM F. JEwE rr

W. GEOR GE Moss LEn

GEOR GE ConN WELL

MERR ILL E . BALSE R

CLYD E PRICK ETT

THER ON J. OAKS
EVERE TT L. COYL E

Refer red to Comm ittee on Finance.

ROBE RT S. BERTR ANO
GLEN E. IRWIN

GRAN D LODGE 01' CALII' ORNIA
EXH IBIT

237

"A"

SOJO URN ER AFFI LIAT IONS
EACH LoDGE LISTE D

Number
22 Great Lights U .D.
11 Manh attan U.D.
10 Frank S. Land U.D .. 192
9 366. 721
8 42,54 7.615 , 726. 736, 768
7 327,5 18, 520. 746
6 124. 242. 346 , 406. 450. 523,
620.6 23,66 6 , 693. 763
5 325,3 32,33 5.437 ,574. 608,
635, 652, 802. 811, Willia m
B. Ogde n U.D.
4 87, 194, 218,2 20, 293,3 15.
328,3 34, 339.3 48. 372.3 84.
442,5 04. 505. 506. 561,5 76.
611.6 26. 628.6 33, 642. 651 ,
687. 703. 708. 715. 775, 780.
789. 810. Moun t Baldy U.D.
3 By each of ·35 Lodge s
2 By each of 80 Lodge s
1 By each of 189 Lodge s
0 By 332 Lodges
1.2 Avera ge Affiliations per
Lodge
Note : The Sojou rner Affiliations
listed on this tabula tion refer to affiliations of Maste r
Maso ns from other Jurisdictions only.

EACH DISTR ICT LISTE D

Numb er
29 •516
27 370
26 *520
22 .. 508. *584
16 .. 640
15 *368 ... 605. 638 ... 644
13 616
12 528 . .. 609 ... 622
11 418
I 0 558. 566. 596. * 628. *637
9 .. 367, 388. 536. 554. 556 . 560.
*624. "*629 ... 642
8 117,5 04. •534, *588. 606.6 32.
"*636
7 .. 352.3 66.39 4.522 . 568. *586.
602, 614. "*635. 646
6 218,3 16, 510. •524, *532. 542.
572, 576 . 618. 612. 625 , 630.
.. 639
5 212. *216. 322.3 65.374. *506.
570. 608. 634. 626
4 By each of 17 Distri cts
3 By each of 17 Districts
2 By each of 30 Distri cts
1 By each of 27 Distri cts
0 By 22 Districts
Note: Distr icts marked with an
"*" indicate each Lodge.
had I or more affiliates.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

239

PROC EEDINGS OF THE

238

· REPO RT OF SPEC IAL COM MIT TEE ON
COM MIT TEE STR UCT URE

1100 0

1000 0

of

Net
9000

8000

7000

i

6000 ~

- -_..

..-

With draw als
5000

--

-- - - --

Deat hs

Rais ed

2000

COMPARISON
of
GAINS AND LOSSES
Show ing Effe cts of
SOJOURNER AFFILIATIONS
FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS

1000
0

0

'°"'

N
\D

"'
ANNUAL RETURNS

EXHIBIT "B"

California:
To the M ost Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. 6 A. M. of
Messa ge to the
Grand M aster Ira W . Cobu rn, in his Annu al
Annu al Com14th
I
Grand Lodge of the State of Califo rnia a t its
:
ation
munic ation, made the following recom mend
d be carefu lly
"A study of our over-a ll comm ittee s tructu re shoul
have fifteen
we
that
shows
record
review ed. At the prese nt time the
discussing
In
ittees.
comm
l
specia
teen
six
stand ing comm ittees and
n that
opinio
ered
consid
my
is
it
en,
chairm
ittee
objec tives with comm
nsirespo
and
there is presen tly a consi derab le overla pping of duties
Grand
of
ers
memb
ied
bilities. Throu ghout this year many qualif
but are being
Lodge have indica ted a desire to serve Maso nry
I am about to
n
atio
mend
recom
the
depriv ed of this oppor tunity . In
judgment
sound
and
rship
leade
of
y
gualit
the
make I am mindf ul of
and
ience
Exper
in the presen t memb ership o f a ll our comm ittees.
conto
is
Lodge
ma tu re judgm ent is impo rtant- but if this Grand
stand ard of
tinue in its growt h, and if it is to maint ain its high
equita bly
more
be
d
shoul
turity
ma
leadership. that exper ience and
d istribu ted.
be ap pointe d
" I theref ore recom mend that a special comm ittee
study o f our
by the incom ing Grand Ma ster to make a thoro ugh
ties. objecactivi
,
duties
prese nt over-a ll comm ittee struct ure. their
le and the
possib
where
n
lidatio
tives. etc.. wi th the objec tive of conso
ities."
nsibil
respo
elimin ation of overla pping
at its Annu al
This recom mend ation was approved by Gran d Lodge
Comm unica tion in Octob er. 1963.
appro val by the
In compl iance wit h this recom mend a tion and its
appoi nted a special
Grand Lodge. Grand Maste r E lmer W. H eald
at this comm unica Lodge
comm ittee instru cted to report to the Grand
memb er of the
each
and
ngs
meeti
tion . Your comm ittee has held three
ment.
assign
this
to
study
and
ht
thoug
comm ittee has devot ed much
ted for
presen
are
ations
mend
recom
and
s
vation
The followin g obser
the consid eratio n of the Grand Lodge :
ittees are not
First: The duties a nd functi ons of a ll stand ing comm
stand ing
fifteen
are
There
defined in the Ca liforn ia Maso nic Code.
in a
even
d.
define
duties
their
have
comm ittees and only five of them
areas
their
derive
to
r
appea
ten
other
The
sketch y mann er, in our code.
tion of the name
of respo nsibil ity a nd duties only by reaso nable defini
of the committee.
be includ ed
W e recom mend that the duties of all stand ing comm ittees
appoi nt a
r
Maste
Grand
the
that
in the Califo rnia Maso nic Code and
on Jurisittee
Comm
the
of
an
chairm
the
commission consis ting of
al PurGener
and
Policy
on
ittee
Comm
the
of
an
prude nce, the chairm

GRA NO LODGE. OF CAL IFOR

240

PRO CEE DING S OF THE

nd
e Com mis sion , and two Pas t Gra
pose s. the cha irm an of the Cod
ing
serv
ry
reta
Sec
Mas ter and Gra nd
Mas ters , toge ther with the Gra nd
atio n purp oses . to prep are and prosult
con
for
y
acit
in an ex-officio cap
nex t ann ual com mun icat ion the com
pos e for legi slat ive acti on at the
tely
qua
preh ensi ve lang uag e as will ade
mitt ee duti es in as precise and com
resp onsi bilit ies of the stan ding
and
es
and clea rly define the duti
com mitt ees.
ails with our spec ial com mitt ees
Sec ond : Mu ch the sam e situ atio n prev
only two spec ial com mitt ees hav ing
(at pres ent ther e are sixt een ). with
e
ned in our law . Sinc e the exis tenc
thei r duti es and resp onsi bilit ies defi
a
by
or
ter,
inat ed by a Gra nd Mas
of a spec ial com mitt ee can be term
wou ld app ear that no duti es sho uld
it
ge,
Lod
sim ple vote of the Gra nd
ial
onic Cod e, but rath er that each spec
be incl ude d in the Cal ifor nia Mas
time
the
at
ned
defi
ies
and resp onsi bilit
com mitt ee sho uld hav e its duti es
es
that any dev iatio n from thes e duti
and
ee,
mitt
com
the
of crea tion of
the
or
ctio n of the Gra nd Mas ter
sho uld be only at the exp ress dire
Gra nd Lod ge.
cha rged with the resp onsi bilit y
We recommend: that the commission
es of the stan ding com mitt ees also
of prop osin g defi nitio ns of the duti
ns
com mitt ees and tha t thes e defi nitio
prop ose defi nitio ns for the spec ial
com
ual
ann
t
nex
the
at
ge
Gra nd Lod
be prop osed for app rov al by the
ruct
inst
min g Gra nd Mas ter sho uld
mun icat ion. The reaf ter each inco
e and limi t of its duti es and resp oneach spec ial com mitt ee as to the scop
e
Gra nd Lod ge yea r. eve n thou gh ther
sibilities at the star t of each new
n
nitio
defi
ing
lack
But,
yea r to yea r.
be no cha nge in thos e duti es from
desi gna tion of the duti es of the
the
e.
Cod
onic
in the Cal ifor nia Mas
of
with the ann ual re-e stab lish men t
spec ial com mitt ees sho uld coin cide
thes e spec ial com mitt ees.
mig ht app ear that ther e are too
Thir d: Alth oug h at first glan ce it
ris the poss ibili ty of con side rabl e ove
man y com mitt ees, and that ther e
com
ch
ea
of
tion
min atio n of the func
lap of resp onsi bilit y and wor k, exa
niza
orga
ee
mitt
com
ve
a com preh ensi
mitt ee tend s to sho w that we hav e
and
ose
purp
ar
icul
part
its
e
hav
ee doe s
tion and that nea rly eve ry com mitt
func tion .
win g com mitt ee con soli dati ons
We do reco mm end , how ever , the follo
and title cha nge s:
e to be cha nge d to the Com mit1. The Com mitt ee on Cor resp ond enc
Pre para tion and pub lica tion of the
tee on the California Freemason.
wor k of the Cor resp ond enc e Com
California Fre ema son is the prim ary
d
gran
r
othe
of
"
ings
"do
the
rtin g on
mittee and the form er acti vity of repo
wor k of our Cor resp ond enc e Com
the
of
t
par
a
but
now
juri sdic tion s is
tely
qua
nia Fre ema son " more ade
mittee. We believe the title "Ca lifor
desc ribe s the com mitt ee.
ting uish ed Gue sts and Mus ic to be
2. The spec ial com mitt ees on Dis
ons ibilities of thes e two com mitt ees
dtsc onti nue d and the duti es and resp

NIA

241

on
resp onsi bilit ies of the Com mitt ee
to be incl ude d with the duti es and
altion
func
ees
mitt
com
e
thre
e all
Gra nd Lod ge We ek Act iviti es. Sinc
con duc t of the ann ual com muand
ion
arat
prep
the
in
ely
usiv
mos t excl
ther e be but one ove rall com mitt ee.
nica tion it seem s app ropr iate that
Mas onic Hal l in Los Ang eles and
3. The .s peci al com mitt ees on Old
bilonti nue d and the duti es and resp onsi
?~ Col umb ia Tem ple to be disc
onresp
and
to be incl ude d with the duti es
1t.1e.s.~f thes e two com mitt ees
ht
mig
ee
mitt
com
ch
onic His tory , whi
s1b1hties of the Com mitt ee on Mas
oriHist
and
tory
His
c
soni
ee on Ma
then prop erly be nam ed the Com mitt
then be enla rged to be a com mituld
sho
ee
mitt
com
s
Thi
cal Lan dma rks.
tee of at leas t nine mem bers .
ic Info rma tion shou ld be rena med
4. The spec ial com mitt ee of M ason
tion. We feel this title more prop erly
as the Com mitt ee on Pub lic Informa
com mitt ee.
fits the purp ose and acti vity of the
cern ed with the num bers of comFourth: We are imp ress ed and con
ee
Gra nd Lod ge on the same com mitt
mitt ee pers onn el who hav e serv ed
tly
stan
eve that Gra nd Lod ge is con
for a grea t man y yea rs. We beli
who sho uld be put to wor k for the
ons
acq uiri ng new and tale nted Mas
ees
ia. but bec ause som e of our com mitt
ben efit of Free mas onr y in Cali forn
l
avai
to
nity
ortu
opp
nt
e is not sufficie
seem to "g row old toge ther " ther
com
ge
Lod
nd
Gra
e
hav
we
e that
ours elve s of this tale nt. We reco gniz
erie nce who se serv ices sho uld be
exp
and
l
skil
sual
unu
of
mitteemen
we
ing and able to help us and that
reta ined as long as they are will
ice
serv
of
y
evit
men t bec ause of long
sho uld not disc onti nue thei r app oint
and
nt
tale
new
uire
ns to stea dily acq
alon e. But we sho uld dev ise a mea
ran tale nt.
vete
all
re
reti
not
at the sam e time
obe r, 1965. the Gra nd M aste r
We recommend that beg inni ng in Oct
to eve ry Gra nd Lod ge com mitt ee
app oint at leas t two new members
ry
e, and one new member to eve
who se mem bers hip is seve n or mor
ts
men
oint
app
se
The
.
five
bers hip is
Gra nd Lod ge com mitt ee who se mem
n
rde
Wa
ior
Sen
a
of
t
men
oint
app
are to be in add itio n to the requ ired
s
(thi
ee
nd Lod ge Stan ding Com mitt
and a Juni or Wa rde n to each Gra
n.
atio
Tax
al.
to the com mitt ees on Ritu
reco mm end atio n sho uld not app ly
al
nor to any of the Con stitu tion
e,
ranc
Ret irem ent Plan . and Insu
al
tinu
con
a
in
lt
resu
uld
edu re sho
Boa rds) . We beli eve that this proc
end
mm
reco
her
furt
We
ee.
mitt
com
flow of fres h enth usia sm for eve ry
repo rt at this 1964 Com mun icat ion.
this
pts
ado
ge
Lod
nd
Gra
that if the
a
red as an exp ress ion of poli cy and
then this prop osal sha ll be con side
raside
con
.
ance
Mas ters for thei r guid
reco mm end atio n to futu re Gra nd
.
tion
enta
tion and poss ible imp lem
n of a com mitt ee sho uld serv e
Fift h: We reco mm end that no cha irma
od of mor e than ten yea rs and that
as chai rma n for an agg rega te peri
ide
ado ptio n by Gra nd Lod ge to prov
legislation sho uld be prep ared for
this limitation.

242

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Sixth: We see no need for more than three members of the Committee on By-Laws and we recommen d that this committee have but three
members and no Senior Warden and Junior Warden members. This
committee provides a technical service only and is restricted in its authority by the provisions of the Uniform Code of By-Laws for Constitue nt
Lodges.
Seventh: We believe there is need of clear-cut, detailed rules of qualifica tion and procedure respecting travel expenses for all Grand Lodge
committee personnel. Not all committee s need an allocation for travel
expenses, but some do. and there should be no lack of understan ding as
to what funds are available and how they are to be spent. We recommend that the Grand Lodge Committe e on Finance be instructed to
develop such rules.
Respectfu lly submitted.
THEODOR E MERIAM

Guv B. M1zE
RALPH H. HEAD

w.

ELBERT
DAVIS
WAKEFIEL D TAYLOR

Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce. on Policy and General
Purposes. on Finance. on Correspon dence, and Code Commissio n.

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON
MASON IC INFORM ATION
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
It was my pleasure to report at the Annual Communi cation in September, 1961 the first report of the Committe e on Masonic Informatio n
created at the beginning of that Masonic year by the Grand Master for
1961-1962 . Alfred F. Breslauer. and again at the Annual Communic ation
in October, 1963. Those reports were rather extensive because it seemed
essential to explain to the members of Grand Lodge the reason for the
creation of the Committe e, the importanc e of a comprehen sive program
of Masonic informatio n and the action taken and contempla ted to disseminate truthful and reliable data regarding various Masonic activities.
The Committe e reported last year as follows (Proceedi ngs of the
Grand Lodge of California. 1963. p. 234):
"There are three distinct areas of concern essential to the Public
image of Masonry:
( l ) E ducating the general public;
(2) Keeping Masons informed of the activities of the Grand
Lodge and its constituen t bodies;
( 3) Creating a healthy atmospher e in order to minimize the possibility of adverse criticism."
The Committe e is pleased to report favorable progress in all three
areas. The Grand Lodge, constituen t Lodges and Masons throughou t

243

California and Hawaii have become conscious of the significanc e of
advantage ous communic ation with the genera l public in stimulatin g an
understan ding of the salutary purposes of Masonry and attracting the
interest of prospectiv e members.
The fou r -point program recommen ded in the 1963 Report included
first. the developme nt of a greater measure of concurren t effort by the
Grand Lodge Committe e on Public Informatio n and constituen t lodges
aided by a "Handboo k for Masonic Informatio n" containing techn.ique s
for the conduct of public relations pursuits. and, second. the continued
cooperatio n of the Committe e with the Masonic Press Clubs of Los
Angeles and of Northern California .
The principal achieveme nts of the Committe e during the past year
are:
First: assistance toward the completio n of the organizati on of the
Masonic Press Club of Northern California ; and
Second: the final drafting of the handbook referred to earlier in this
report.
The Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles has been in existence several years and under excellent direction has rendered valuable service
to Masonry by the distributio n to the public media:--ne w.spaper.s. television and radio-of informatio n regarding M asonic affairs of mterest
to the public.
The Masonic Press Club of Northern California was operating de
facto at the time of the 1963 Communic ation: however, it came into
existence officially at its charter installatio n of officers and banquet held
at the Press Club. San Francisco, March 4. 1964. On that occasion the
trustees were installed by Most Worshipf ul Elmer W. Heald. The
organizati on has increased its membersh ip 'substantiall~ and is responsible for the distributio n of numerous press releases during the year and
currently in the newspape rs.
The handbook has been expanded into a "Public Relations Manual "
with the expectatio n that it may prove of valuable use to the constituen t
lodges in the field of public informatio n and result in an enlarged program. The manual soon will be printed and distributed to the lodges of
California and Hawaii.
The manual is designed as a guide principally for the constituen t
lodges in the developm ent of public informatio n programs in their respective communiti es. In the 1963 report of the Committe e it is recommen ded
that Masters of the constituen t lodges should appoint a brother. or a
committee , to conduct the public informatio n effort. It is hoped that the
Masters elected to take office following this Communic ation will make
such appointme nts and actuate the plan in order that an over-all program
in California and Hawaii may be effectuated .

245

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA
244

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

RECOMMENDATIONS
and moti vatio n of use by
1. Distr ibuti on to the cons titue nt Lodg es
them of the manu al.
e Com mitte e on Mas onic
2. Enha nced coop erati on of the Gran d Lodg
of Cali forn ia and Haw aii, and
Info rmat ion with the cons titue nt Lodg es
of this juris dicti on with the aid
also Mas ters and War dens Asso ciati ons
and of Nort hern Calif ornia .
of the Mas onic Pres s Club s of Los Ang eles
e Com mitte e on Publ ic
3. Cont inue d func tioni ng of a Gran d Lodg
Info rmat ion.
Resp ectfu lly subm itted .
GERALD s. LEVIN
ROGER EMERY BUTLER
SET
MAS
THO
A.
CHARLES
}A.MES K. WILSON
GLENDALL W. McDERMOTT
Refe rred to Com mitte e on Fina nce.
At 4:00 p.m. Gran d Lodg e was calle d off

until 9:30 a.m. Wed nesd ay.

IN GRA ND LODGE
14. 1964
MOR NING SESSION- WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER
the Gran d Mas ter pres idAt 9: 10 a.m . Gran d Lodg e was calle d on,
invo catio n. The minutes of the
ing. The Gran d Chap lain deliv ered the
Octo ber 13. were read and
morn ing and after noon sessi ons of Tues day.
appr oved .

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON GRI EVA

NCE S

g the Com mun icati on are
(Item s repo rted on at diffe rent times durin
cons olida ted to facilitate refer ence .)
& A. M. of California:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gran d Lodg e F.
follo ws:
You r Com mitte e on Grie vanc es repo rts as
omn ibus repo rt cove rs
this
and
rds,
reco
We have cons idere d i I trial
ente d by mem bers of the com24 of them. Spec ial repo rts will be pres
mitte e conc ernin g the rema inde r.
forms for trial proc edur e
We agai n call atten tion to the fact that the
been repe aled. The
have
e
whic h appe ar in the origi nal Mas onic Cod
ardiz ed form s.
stand
es
Lodg
the
sh
Gran d Secr etary is direc ted to furni
et of any disci plina ry matt er.
and he shou ld be cont acted at the out·s
them care fully and use a little
Tho se using the form s shou ld exam ine
two or more alter nativ e allediscr etion in com pleti ng them . Man y have
cula r case shou ld be struc k out
gatio ns and thos e not appl icab le to a parti
exam ple of failu re to prep are
ng
with pen or type write r. The most glari
s "at the direc tion of the
word
the
of
the form prop erly is the reten tion
Mas ter did not so direc t. We
Mas ter" in a char ge when , in truth , the
past.
have ment ione d this in our repo rts in the
ges whe n he know s of offen ses
char
r
prefe
ld
shou
den
The Junio r War
t him to do so. How ever . if
direc
and the Mas ter shou ld neve r have to
from presi ding at a trial or
d
alifie
the Mas ter does so direc t he is disqu
Mas onic Cod e.
from maki ng an inves tigat ion unde r 692.4
e has been corre ct and the
edur
proc
the
rds
reco
In the following trial
ges of justice in any of these
resu lt justified, and we find no misc arria
reco rds:
e No. 616. Expe lled. Feb.
No. 178 9-A mem ber of R. E. Doll ey Lodg
7, 1964.
191. Expe lled, Jan. 8, 1964 .
No. 179 7-A mem ber of Mar in Lodg e No.
e No. 758. Susp ende d , Oct.
No. 181 2-A mem ber of Wes t Covi na Lodg
3. 1963.
lled, Oct. 14.
member of La Faye tte Lodg e No. 126. Expe
3-A
No. 181
1963.
tura Lodg e No. 214. Expe lled.
No. 181 1-A member of San Buen aven
Nov . 5, 1963.
e No. 527. Expe lled, Nov . 6,
No. 181 5-A mem ber of Cov enan t Lodg
1963.

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

246

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

.

No. 1817-A member of Vista Lodge No. 687. Acquitted , Nov. 5, 1963
No. 1818-A member of Redondo Lodge No. 328. Expelled, Feb. 6.
.
1964.
1963.
2,
Dec.
No. 1820-A member of Solano Lodge No. 229. Expelled,
No. 1821 - A member of a Lodge in the State of Washingt on. Expelled
by Table Mountain Lodge No. 124. Feb. 18. 1964.
No. 1822-An entered apprentice of a Lodge in Ontario, Canada. Expelled by San Carlos Lodge No. 690, April 7. 1964.
No. 1823-An entered apprentice of Evergreen Lodge No. 259. Expelled, April 1. 1964.
No. 1824- A member of San Ramon Valley Lodge No. 724. Expelled,
April 6, 1964.
entered aprrentice of Russian River Lodge No. 181. Ex1826-An
No.
pelled, March 3. 1964.
No. 1828-A member of Ojai Lodge No. 663. Expelled. June 2, 1964.
No. 1829- A member of Reading Lodge No. 254. Expelled, June 3,
1964.
No. 1830--A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598. Acquitted , Oct.
14. 1963.
No. 1831-A member of Delta Lodge No. 471. Expelled , May 5, 1964.
No. 1832-A member of Merced Lodge No. 749. Expelled, July 7, 1964.
No. 1833- A member of Reseda Lodge No. 666. E xpelled, July 2, 1964.
No. 1834- A member of Silver Cord Lodge No. 505 . Expelled, July 7,
1964.
No. 1837- A member of Washingt on Lodge No. 20. Expelled . Aug. 6.
1964.
No. 1840--A member of Elmhurst Lodge No. 610. Expelled, Sept. 4.
1961.
No. 1841-A member of Fullerton Lodge No. 339. Expelled, June 2.
1964.
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED: That in each of the trial records above mentioned .
the action taken and the result thereof be ratified. approved and affirmed.
Respectfu lly submitted ,
ALBERT F. Ross
WILLIAM B . NEELEY
WOLLEN BERG
ALBERT
FOLGER EMERSON
MORTON
BYRON
M cCouRTNE Y
A.
R1cHARD E. PArrON

c.
c.

J.

Adopted.
TRIAL RECORD S NOS. 708, 944, 1587, 1643,
1680, 1744 AND 1748
.
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. 6 A M. of California:
the
in
accused
Petitions for restoration have been received from the
following trial records:

247

708-A former member of Santa Monica Lodge No. 307 .. No. 650. ·
o . 944-A former member of La Brea Lodge
N 483.
N o.
o.
Lodge
Bell
of
1587-A former member
6
N o.
N 1643- A former member of Charity Lodge No. 3 2.
o. 1680--A former member of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699.
N o.
No. 1744-A former member of Solano Lodge No. 229.
No. 1748-A former member of M ineral King Lodge No .. 720.
In determinin g whether or not a petition for restoration should be
granted . your Committe e takes into considerat ion many fac_ts such as
he <Seriousness of the Masonic offense of which the accused is charged.
~he period which has elapsed from the date of expulsion by Grand Lodge
to the date of the petition for restoration . whether or not_ the acc~ sed
has sufficiently rehabilitat ed himself. letters of recommen dation s.ubm1tted
on behalf of the accused. if any, and the feeling of the accused s former
. .
Lodge as to whether he should be restored.
:1s approved
restoration
for
petition
a
when
that
d
It must be emphasize
and conselarge.
at
member
a
becomes
accused
the
Lodge
b Grand
~!filiation.
for
Lodge
an~ther
~r
Lodge
former
his
petition
must
q~en tly
Your Committe e has given full cons1derat1on to these pet1t1ons and
based upon the facts of each individual record. offers the follow ing

N

resolution:
RESOLV ED: That the petitions for restoration in the following trial
records be granted.
No. 708-A former member of Santa Monica Lodge No. 307.
No. 1587-A former member of Bell Lodge No. 483.
No. 1643-A for111er member of Charity Lodge No. 362.
No. 1680-A former member of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699.
No. 1744-A former member of Solano Lodge No. 229.
No. 1748-A former member of Mineral King Lodge No. 720.
and that the petition for restoration in the following trial record be
denied :
No. 944-A former member of La Brea Lodge No. 650.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORD S NOS. 1469 AND 1649
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
In Trial Record No. 1469 a former member of Mount Olive Lodge
No. 506 and in Trial Record No. 1649 a former member of Sequoia
Lodge No. 349, each have petitioned for restoration to the right and
privileges of Masonry.
Section 767 C.M.C. states that the petition for restoration must be
submitted in writing to the Lodge from which the accused was expelled
at least sixty days before the Annual Communi cation at which his petition is to be presented.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

248

249

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

In Trial Record No. 1469 the petition was ·s ubmitted to the Lodge. 011
Septembe r 3. 1964. and in Trial Record N o. 1649 the petition was submitted to the Lodge on Septembe r I . 1964.
The petitions in these two trial records were not submitted within the
sixty day period.
We. therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLV ED: That the petitions for restoration in Trial Records
No. 1469 and 1649 be denied.
Adopted .

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1819

To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The accused. a member of Liberty Lodge No. 299, was convicted of
murder in the State Courts and committed to prison. Notice of intended
expulsion under Section 732 C.M.C. was given. He wrote a letter to
the Lodge, which amounted to a demand for a trial and it was treated
as such. Later after his friends and relatives. who visited him at the
prison, had shown him the futility of having a trial in the Lodge. he
withdrew the demand. The Master at the next Stated Meeting declared
him expelled.
Where notice of intended expulsion is given and a demand for trial
is made. and the 60 day period expires, the power of the Lodge to
expel is ended and no withdrawa l of the demand for trial may be made
after said period. The Lodge must proceed to serve notice under Section
692.l C.M.C .. and to investigat e the charge or to have a trial before a
Commission if necessary.
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED : That the purported expulsion of the accused in Trial
Record No. 1819 be reversed and set aside and the matter remanded to
the Lodge with direction to proceed to have charges filed and proper
proceedin gs taken thereon.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1825

To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of a Kentucky Lodge sojourning within the jurisdictio n
of Downey Lodge No. 220 was charged in tha t Lodge with improper
associatio n with the wife of a Master Ma'5on. He pleaded not guilty and
was tried by a Commission, which found him guilty. The Commissi on
apparently felt that the facts proved justified a finding of guilt but tha t
the penalty of suspension was sufficient, and it so directed. The result
seems proper.
Being suspended by the Lodge. the accused will be entitled to apply
to it for restoration if he ever sees fit to do so but. should the Lodge vote
restoration by a two-thirds ballot. he will not be restored to any Lodge in
California but only to the rights and privileges of Masonry in this

'urisdiction. If Kentucky has suspended or expelled him, restoration
~ re would not affect his status there and he would be a Mason at la~ge
o:ly and. should he apply for affiliation in California . his then sta nding
in Kentucky should be investigate d .
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED : That the finding of guilt and suspension of the
accused in Trial Record No. 1825 be ratified , affirmed and approved.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1835
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California :

The accused was charged in Phoenix Lodge No. 178 in M ay. 1962.
with various a llegations, the basic one being the use of a false and
assumed name when petitioning that Lodge for affiliation. It was also
charged that he had been indicted in an United States District Court
for falsifying his name on a passport applicatio n. (This indictmen t was
later dismissed by the Federal Court on the ground that accused had
.
acted in good faith. )
The charges were amended and a trial '-Vas had before a commission late in 1963, accused found guilty of using a false name and suspended. The proceedin gs were somewhat irregular in that the trial
took place before commissio ners elected over a year before.
However, the main problem in the case is whether the use of a name
other than that of his father was unmasonic conduct. Willful use of a n
assumed name in a petition has been held improper in Section 526d.
Masonic Code. but Section 526e holds that the adoption of a name
without intention to injure others was not a Masonic offense.
In the instant case the surna me of the father of the accused was
foreign-so unding , and early in life he adopted a shorter and simpler
name, and used it for years in all his activities. such as his Social
Security papers, his record as a civilian employee of the Air Force.
and in many other ways. He used his new name exclusivel y.
In almost all. if not all, States there is a Court procedure for changing names by which a record of such change can be made, but it is also
the law that anyone may adopt a new name without any Court procedure .
if it is not with intent to defraud or for some unlawful or improper
purpose.
We hold, therefore, that the conduct of the accused was not wrong
nor unmasonic in any way and the evidence does not support the finding
of guilt. There is no reason for retrying this case.
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED : That the finding of guilt of the accused and his suspension by Phoenix Lodge No. l 78 be reversed ;md ~et aside. that a
6nding o f not guilty be substitute d and the ch~rge against th e accused
be dismissed .
Adopted.

250

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1839
To the M ost Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California :
A member of Montebell o Lodge No. 451 was charged with writing
and circulating among Masons a letter which slandered and defamed
the Brethren of the Jewis h faith belonging to the Masonic Fraternity
and did advocate that the Masonic Fraternity be limited to white
Christians .
After a trial by Whittier Lodge No. 323. at the direction of the
Grand Master, before a commission he was found guilty and ordered
reprimand ed.
Your Committe e feels that the charges of which the member was
found guilty are of grave nature in that they contraven e one of our
basic principles and philosoph y and that the penalty should be raised
to expulsion.
We. therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLV ED : That the finding of guilty in Trial Record No. 1839
be approved but that the penalty be raised to expulsion and that the
accused be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

ADDITI ONAL TRIAL RE'CORDS
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The reports in the following Trial Records do not contain any
points of Masonic la w and we offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED: That the reports in the following need not be printed
in the Annual Proceedin gs :
Trial Record No. 1816-A member of Rim of the World Lodge No.
711. Expulsion reversed and case remanded
for new proceedin gs.
Trial Record No. 1827-A member of Galt Lodge No. 267. P ena lty
raised from suspension to expulsion.
Trial Record No. 1836-A member of Magnolia Park Lodge No. 715.
Expulsion approved.
member of Northern Light Lodge No. 190.
1838-A
Trial Record No.
Penalty raised from suspension to expulsion.
Adopted.

EMERG ENT RESOLU TION
The Commitbee on Grievances:
Your Committe e on Grievance s to which was referred the resolution
to relieve West Gate Lodge No. 335 of the duty of trying two Brothers
of that Lodge, reports as follows:
If Grand Lodge sets a precedent by grantin g \,Yest Gate Lodge
No. 335 this relief it may start a rush of such applicatio ns each year

251

and Grand Lodge will be busy trying charges during its Annual Communication . The Lodge, in this case . has charges on file separately for
the two Brothers who were convicted by plea of grand theft, a felony.
The Lodge should proceed with these charges in the proper manner.
Charges which do not involve a criminal act may be withdrawn by
the accuser before trial. but where crimes. such as grand theft, are
charged there is no authorizat ion in our law for wit hdrawal or dismissal.
Grand Lodge has wisely delegated the power to its Lodges to pass
on the merits of charges and the guilt or innocence of those charged, and
should not itself undertake to decide whether an accused is guilty or not.
We recommen d against adoption of this resolution .
The Committe e on Jurisprudence:
The Committe e on Jurisprude nce indicated its concurren ce in the
recommen dation.
Adopted.

252

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORN!A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON
PAY OF MEM BERS

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON CRED ENTI ALS
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:
Your Comm ittee on Creden tials submit s the following report covering the l l 5th Annua l Comm unicati on of this Grand Lodge.
and
First, we desire to expres s our apprec iation for the assista nce
Grand
nt
Assista
the
ry,
Secreta
cooper ation given to us by the Grand
er and
Secreta ry and their staff. as well as that of the Building Manag
been
have
would
chore
our
ation
cooper
this
ut
Witho
the Grand Tiler.
more difficult.
,
The Comm ittee is again indebte d to Brothe r Kirby C. Searles
for
Relief.
of
Board
ic
Mason
Beach
Long
the
of
ary
Execut ive Secret
tion.
assistin g in registe ring the Inspec tors during their school of instruc
are
We respect fully report that of the 702 charter ed Lodges 683
nted.
represe
are
sation
dispen
under
Lodges
six
the
of
represe nted. Six
The total registr ation is made up as follows :
Grand Lodge Officers............................................................................
....
Past Grand Master s.............................. ............................................

27
li

.
Past Grand Lectur er.............................................................................
1460
Officers and Repres entativ es ....................................................... .........
....1211
Past Master s, includi ng the following: ............................................
Inspec tors ...................... 166
Comm itteeme n .......... ...... 156
Secreta ries ...................... I 90
. IO
Grand Master s of other Jurisdi ctions. ........................... ............ ...........
8
......
...........
Grand Secreta ries from other Judsdi ctions.......................
Grand Officers and Past Masters of other Jurisdi ctions
12
(Includ ing 6 Past Grand M asters) ................................................
2
..
.........
...........
...........
...........
Specia l Guests ................................. ...........
2745
TOT AL ........... .................................... .......... ... ..............................
532
.......
...........
...........
...........
)
ries
M aster Mason s (includ ing 73 Secreta
GRAN D TOTA L ..................................................... .....................
Respec tfully submit ted.
THOMAS F. MASON
EMIL w. TREPT S
DoN E. BERRY
CHARLES H . KNIGHTS
HARRY F. LUTIJCKEN
HALL
LYLE
JAMES B. SMITH

c.

253

3277

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
Your Comm ittee on Pay of Membe rs submit s the following report
covering the l l 5th Annua l Comm unicati on of Grand Lodge.
his
Those entitled to mileag e compen sation are the Master , or in
and
Master
the
of
e
absenc e the ranking Warde n , or in the absenc
d he
Warde ns. the duly elected Repres entativ e; each Inspec tor, provide
of
Pay
on
ittee
Comm
the
with
filed
ate
is reporte d presen t on the certific
the
of
s
Officer
s;
Master
Grand
Past
r;
Lecture
Membe rs by the Grand
192 of
Grand Lodge; Chairm en of Comm ittees enume rated in Section
ittees:
Comm
the Califor nia Mason ic Code; membe rs of the following
e:
Jurispr udence; Policy and Genera l Purpos es; Grieva nces; Financ
ce;
ponden
Corres
ws;
By-La
rs:
Creden tials; Pay of Membe rs; Charte
nce
Lodge Financ ing; and Code Commission who are actuall y in attenda
Section
in
noted
as
ons
provisi
all
with
comply
who
and
at Grand Lodge;
176 of the Califor nia Mason ic Code.
to
Mileag e from the variou s points within the State of Califor nia
Calithe
of
records
ed
publish
San Franci sco has been taken from the
State
fornia State Autom obile Associ ation. Mileag e from points in the
records
ed
publish
the
from
taken
been
has
sco
Franci
of Hawai i to San
Code.
of air lines, in accord ance with Section 174. Califor nia Mason ic
the
or
sco
Franci
No compe nsation is allowe d to members from San
Caliof
State
the
from
rs
immed iate vicinity. Compe nsation of membe
seven
fornia and the State of Hawai i has been compu ted on the basis of
e.
Financ
on
ittee
Comm
the
by
fixed
rate
( 7) cents per mile, the
subThe payroll has been checke d with the registr ation record s as
d
require
ts
mitted to us by the Comm ittee on Creden tials, and the amoun
on
unicati
Comm
l
Annua
to meet the transpo rtation costs for the 1964
are as follows:
l ,134.93
Grand Lodge Oflker s.................................................................. $
535.78
-···
····--···-···-·--····
Past Grand Master s ......... --·····-··········-··- ·-·····---1
6,557.7
.......
...........
...........
...........
...........
...........
...........
...........
Inspec tors
0
1.910.3
.....
Comm ittees ...................... .......................................................
.90
27,236
...
...........
...........
Repres entatives of Lodges ...................... ...........
···$37,375.62
TOT AL -··---···················-···-······-······-··········· ····--··--- ----·······
the
This will, no doubt, be the la•st report that l will make for
time
this
t
a
wish
I
and
Lodge,
Comm ittee on Pay of Membe rs to Grand
staff the
to expres s to the Grand Secreta ry and to the membe rs of his
ittee
Comm
th~
of
rs
membe
the
all
and
mysdf
of
heartfe lt apprec iation
le
availab
always
and
ng
unfaili
the
and
work,
of
t
for the great amoun
this
to
given
assista nce, that throug h the past ten years has always been
Comm ittee. To all of you we say, THA NK YOU VERY MUCH.
on
Checks will be ready for distribu tion at the Regis tration Desk
Grand
Junior
the
of
election
the
ng
followi
iately
Friday mornin g immed

255

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

Warden . Brethren, if you are the Master, or Warden representi ng your
Lodge. or the Elected Represent ative of your Lodge, the Pay of Members Committe e would like to urge you to pick up your check.
Arrangem ents have been made so that those who desire to cash
their checks may do so at the United California Bank. Fairmont Hotel
Branch. located on the California Street side of the Fairmont Hotel.
Your Grand Lodge Credentia ls will serve as suitable identificat ion.
Respectfu lly submitted .

tish Rite Bodies bulletins- The Los Angeles Shrine Bulletin, California
Freemason, Pot of Gold, The Cordon, and in the Trestle Boards of some
Masonic lodges. More publicity was given at various Masonic functions
by speakers and by displays.
The Board thanks their Masonic Brethren for this publicity as it is
only by constant telling of our story that membersh ip is developed .
During the spring semester a building was erected next door on
Bancroft. It was necessary for us to obtain the services of an architect
to assist us in this matter. It also was necessary to shore up our foundation at great expense to the Clubhouse .
The constructi on rules and regulation s were generally observed but
dama ge was done to the interior of the building. At first glance the damage appeared to be very heavy but, after checking , the architect determined that no serious damage had resulted and our costs were below
$1.000. Our total costs approxima ted $6,000-p aid from capital.
A very effective sign has been erected at the front of the building.
This was pa rt of our promotion al program and has received much favorable comment.
Tile appropria tion granted us by Grand Lodge amounted to $22.850
-of this amount we expended $21,786.35.
Several items of expense were not taken care of before the end of the
fiscal year due to the constructi on next door and the resultant dust and
dirt.
It is our desire that as many of the members of Grand Lodge as possible visit our building oi:i their return from the Union City visit.
Your Board of Directors consider it an honor and privilege to serve
Masonry in this manner and hope that through our contact with the boys
at California we may develop in them an interest in Masonry.
In conclusion . the Directors wish to thank the hostesses, student officers and members for their excellent cooperatio n during the past year.
Respectfu lly submitted ,

254

KEITH W. S c HLAEGEL
MATTHEW M. CODON
BACIGALU PI
JOHN
AR CHER R. RICHARDSO N
WILLIAM D. KNIGHT
CAVEN
WILLIAM
F. CHOW CHAN

v.

J.

Referred to Committe e on Finance.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECT ORS
OF THE
MASON IC CLUB AT THE UNIVER SITY
BERKELEY, CALIFO RNIA
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
The Berkeley Clubhouse Board of Directors submits herewith its
report for the year ending July 31, 1964.
A word of thanks must be conveyed to the Grand Master Elmer W.
Heald and the officers of Grand Lodge for their interest and understan ding of the problems which are associated with the campus of a large
university . The directors, hostesses and students have worked together
to build up the membersh ip and in handling the various problems which
have arisen during the past year.
A very energetic promotion al program was carried out during the
past year. Over that period of time there were held various affairs to
aid this program such as a Fall Friendship Dinner, a Breakfast and
Victory Dinner. in addition to the regularly scheduled open house for
students.
The result of these activities is shown by the increase in membersh ip
from 51 as of Septembe r 10, 1963, to 176 on June I, 1964. This was 24
short of our goal of 200 which we promised Grand Master Coburn. We
shall continue to work together to build the membersh ip.
Other affairs to promote the membersh ip drive were planned , but
due to a full program prepared by the students prior to ours these were
not carried out. They are part of the 1964-65 promotion al program.
Last year a film was prepared by one of the students assisted by past
and present members. This film ha s been shown by many Blue Lodges
and Masonic organizat ions-both youth and adult. Also, Fresno State
College requested the use of the film and it was well received there. It
also will be shown at Grand Lodge during the Communic ations.
A brochure was prepared and sent to all members of the California
jurisdictio n. In addition, publicity has been given in many of the Scot-

1964
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN,

Treasurer
JoHN L. W1xoN,
A ssistant Secretary
GORDON F. BLACK

c.

OTWELL
GENE
ELTON L. TURNER

1966

1965

J. WALTER PROCTOR,
President

c. MELVIN DAVIS,
Vice President
WALLACE E. YORK
ALFRED E. HOPKINS
EDWARD H . REDFORD

Referred to Committe e on Finance.

PAUL

s. BOREN,

Secretary

c.

RUSSELL
HORSTMA NN
WILLARD H. NUTTING,
JR.
EDWARD A. REINKE
WILLIS H . GIL LETTE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
256

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPO RT OF THE BOAR D OF DIRE CTOR S
OF THE MASO NIC CLUB
UNIV ERSIT Y OF CALI FORN IA AT LOS ANGE LES

MASO NIC CLUB AT THE UNIV ERSIT Y
BERK ELEY . CALIF ORNI A
BUDGET FOR THE F1scAL YEAR ENDING JuLY 31. 1965
0
SAie~~;~s~ostess ·········-·-·····- ------------··$3.60
4

Social Hostes s ·············-············-········· .000
60
Accou ntant ··-·--·--····--··-·····················-·· 1 75 g
Janitor and Garden er.--·--·-----···---- ------- ·

$9.950

u-g;;~~~c~~icity and water..................$1.2;;
Garbag e --······-····································· 275
Teleph one ........................................... _._ _

1,625

igg

SUPPL IES:
Janitor ial ...................... ........................$
Garden -·····················-··········· ···---···--·-· 300
Office and printin g ............ ---··-----· -··-·-_·_ _
TAXES:
Payrol l ................................................$ ~;g
4
Proper ty .............................................. '

$ 29 4
INSUR ANCE :
94
-····--·-·
··-······-Fire ·····-···················-·······
·····
···········
···-·······
········-··
nsation
Compe
217
Liabili ty ··-··--···-···································

700

5.100

605

$17.98 0

--5
ANNU AL CLEA NING ......................$ oo
AUDI T ................................................. .
MISC ELLA NEOU S ····························

250
150

$ 900

PROM OTIO N-AD VERT ISING
STUD ENT AND
500
MASO NIC RELA TIONS ..............$3.

$3.500

BUILD ING AND CONT ENTS :
Repair s, mainte nance (buildi ng) ........ $1 .oog
25
Repair s (furnit ure) ··········· ·················
Replac ement (furnit ure) ·······-·····-···· 1l ,OOO
665
Founda tion shorin g····················-······· ·

$6.915

257

$11,315
$29.295

4
DEPR ECIAT ION ................................$ .000
TOT AL BUDG ET........ .............................. ...................... $

4.000
33 •295

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
the
In our report last year. we explain ed that the matter giving us
attendpoor
and
rship
membe
of
off
falling
the
most concer n was that of
ance.
given
We are pleased to report that, no doubt due to the publici ty
semesfall
the
during
d
to both clubho uses last year, our pledge s double
interes t
ter, attenda nce is very good, and members are all taking an active
·
es.
activiti
s
in the Club and its variou
comIn order to mainta in interes t in our C lub, a special publici ty
Club
our
of
name
the
bring
to
rs
mittee was appoin ted of Board membe
ic
Mason
all
of
n
attentio
the
to
ts.
studen
and its facilities for college
area.
organiz ations in this
the
The following is a list of what this publici ty commi ttee under
:
done
has
l
Howel
Roy
S.
r
Brothe
of
chairm anship
the
1. Just before the Inspec tors Spring Meetin g in San Diego.
Robert
r
Brothe
n,
Assista nt Grand Lectur er of the 5th Mason ic Divisio
He was
Crigler , was asked to speak to his group about the clubho uses.
Ins pecthe
at
and
Club.
the
of
es
given pamph lets explain ing the activiti
plate.
each
at
placed
was
lets
pamph
these
of
tors' first breakf ast a supply
ing
regard
talk
nt
excelle
an
gave
Crigler
r
Brothe
ast
During the breakf
to
back
e
the clubho uses and urged the Inspec tors to take the messag
of
n
brethre
the
of
their respect ive Lpdges and ask for the cooper ation
talks in
these Lodges by giving publicity in the monthl y bulletin s and by
the Lodges .
2. The Al Malaik ah Shrine Templ e mon thly bulletin had an article
hat lost
in its April 1964 issue but it was felt that the effect was somew
publica
this
of
editor
The
s.
college
the
in
becaus e this was at mid- term
Club
the
of
s
picture
with
te
comple
article
r
anothe
run
tion has agreed to
30.000 mem in the Septem ber issue which will be deliver ed to their over
bers just before the start of the Fall semest er.
3. The Los Angele s Scottish Rite will have a similar article in its
rs.
Septem ber issue which will be mailed to its over 10,000 membe
ar.
4. Los Angele s Comm a nderies No. 9 and No. 43, Knight s Templ
ber.
Septem
in
mailing
similar
a
will each have
lay
5. Brothe r Homer R athbun , Ch airman of the Grand Lodge DeMo
lay
DeMo
the
h
throug
ty
publici
some
us
get
to
Comm ittee. has a greed
publica tion.
of
6. We ha ve written to the Worth y Grand Matron of the Order
our
ing
regard
ation
inform
placing
in
help
her
ng
soliciti
the Easter n Star,
. .:
clubho uses before the Califor nia Easter n Star chapte rs.

nia
lish er of the pap er The Califor
7. Bro ther Orv ille Por ter, pub
e.
issu
ber
e pub licit y in his Sep tem
Eastern Sta r will also give us som
all
ber of our Boa rd , is con tact ing
8. Bro ther M. A. Dun can , mem
y.
licit
pub
g Bea ch are a to get furt her
Ma son ic org aniz atio ns in the Lon
denth usia stic efforts o f this h<ir
We feel con fide nt that with the
ease our Clu b mem bers hip .
wor king committee, we will incr
our
to Gra nd Lod ge last yea r, that
It was men tion ed in our rep ort
on
re
reti
will
,
ldon
She
Mrs . Fai th C.
Dir ecto r for ove r twe nty yea rs.
t
stan
assi
le
pab
ca
y
ver
. 1964. Als o her
a service pension as of Dec . 31
of
rs
yea
teen
thir
r
Ma y 31, 1964, afte
Mr s. Edi th Joh nso n resi gne d
a nd
not ofte n tha t two s uch dev oted
is
It
fait hfu l and loya l service.
n
give
e
hav
y
The
n.
the sa me org aniz atio
ded icat ed pers ons are fou nd in
y
man
use
ld
cou
and exp erience. W e
unselfish ly of thei r time, tale nts
l
shal
we
r,
d wor king ladies. How eve
wor ds in prai se of thes e two har
y
man
a job well don e and wis h them
onl y sinc erel y tha nk them for
ent.
hap py yea rs of hea lthy reti rem
n's
red the mnt ter of Mrs . She ldo
The Boa rd of Dir ecto rs con side
the
and
wed
rvie
inte
e
wer
app lica nts
repl ace men t very care full y. Sev eral
ton as of Sep t. l, 1964, who will
Dea
ry
Ma
.
Boa rd has emp loye d Mrs
of Jan . 1, 1965.
assume the duti es of Dir ecto r as
wn
by the extr eme inte rest bein g sho
You r Boa rd is ver y enc our age d
the
ing
rcom
We feel that we a re ove
by the new pled ges to our Clu b.
nce of the pas t few yea rs.
lack of inte rest and poor atte nda
will
e suc h a favo rabl e report. We
It is grat ifyi ng to be able to mak
hip
bers
mem
the
g
brin
to
rts and stri ve
con tinu e with our pub licit y effo
to full cap acit y.
4-6 5 is sho wn belo w.
The bud get for the fiscal yea r 196
Res pec tful ly sub mit ted,
1964

I 966

1965

PAU L

HER BER T H. Coo PER
FRA NK M . JEN KIN S

THO MA S CAR ROL L
DRA KE
ELV IN

GEO RGE KUS SMA N
CLY DE C. SHO EMA KER

R. NIC HOL S,
President

c.

M. A. DUN CAN
WA DE
EDW IN

A. CUR TIS SMI TH

Ref erre d to Com mit tee on Fin anc

S. Rov How ELL .

Vic e-P resi den t

c. EARLE CRANE,

Secretary~Treasurer
GEO RGE E. HAL L
BAT ES MA SON

w.

FRA NK H. REI NSC H

e.

259

NIA
GRA ND LODGE OF CAL IFOR

PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

258

BU DG ET -19 64- 196 5
MA SO NIC CL UB
AT LOS AN GE LE S
UN IVE RS ITY OF CA LIF OR NIA
1963 -1964
Exp ense

Sala ries :
0
Dire ctor ..............................$5,687.5
0.00
1,50
...
.......
ctor
Ass ocia te dire
Bui ldin g assi stan ts ....... ... 1,814.30
9,001.80
2.53
Les s p ayro ll ded ucti ons....... . 1,60
s..............
Gar den ing & gardenin g sup plie .......... ..
Hea t, ligh t, water, pow er..............
Bui ldin g repa irs, supp lies &
...... .
repl acemen ts .............. .....................
Taxes:
4
Pro pert y ............................$3,686.9
6.82
1,06
.
.......
.......
Wit hho ldin g .......
86
Pay roll ....... ....... ................ 779.

Bud get
$ 6,700.00
3,600.00
1,800.00

$7,399.27

12,100.00
1, 700.00

$10,400.00

581.51
1,205.39

600.00
1,200.00

3,270.72

5,500.00

5,533.62

$3,800.00
1,30 0.00
850.00

5,900.00

850.00
848.25
Insu ranc e ·--········-·······--········-----· ···-----·····-----·
400.00
400.16
-····
·······
·······
·-·····
·······
·······
Tele pho ne ··············
120. 00
03
.... .
121.
.......
.......
.......
es
azin
mag
&
ers
New spap
144.00
00
144.
ice
--serv
Ref use
···-········------······-·--·······-······50.00
41.42
····
···································
Office sup plie s -·-····
220.00
........ .
40
.......
223.
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
Pos tage
150.00
150.00
··············..
······· ·······.......
·········~·-· ·······
6.00
Aud itin g ···-···box
.......
5.50
.......
rent al .......
Safe deposit
300.00
....... ......
187.52
.......
.......
.......
ry
ione
stat
&
ting
Prin
350.00
1,067.79
Mis cell aneous ················---·······---················9.00
2,96
·············
Dep reci atio n ······· ········-···················
$29, 159.00
Tota l ......................................... . $21,179.58
nce on
bala
ng
aini
the basis of the rem
_O ~r dep reci ation is figu red on
od.
peri
r
yea
teen
thir
d ove r a
Bu1 ldm gs of $38,602.46 exte nde
pres ry is due to the reti rem ent of our
This
The incr ease in the Dire ctor 's sala
.
1964
1,
t.
Sep
of
as
r
esso
ent of her succ
ent dire ctor and the emp loym
mak es an ove rlap ping.
that our
ctor 's sala ry is due to the fact
The incr ease in the Ass ocia te Dire
rece ivin g
been
had
She
.
1964
31,
May
d as of
fon: ie r assoc~ate dire ctor resi gne
succ esso r a
rs and we will hav e to pay her
S?c1 a l Sec unt y for sev eral yea
high er sala ry.
increase d
plie s & repl acem ents has bee n
The item of Bui ldin g repa irs, sup
dire ctor
the
for
ned
ntai
mai
ent
the apa rtm
has
ctor
due to the nec essi ty of pain ting
dire
ring
itur e inasmuc h as our reti
and _also to pur chase new furn
res.
reti
she
n
whe
her
will take with
fun utu re of her own whi ch she

260

E
PRO CEE DIN GS OP TH

CO MM IT TE E ON
RE PO RT OF SP EC IA L
LOS AN GE LE S
AT
OL D MA SO NI C HA LL
M. of California:

Gr an d Lo dge F. & A.
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipf ul
itte e on the Ol d
t the rep ort of the Co mm
sen
pre
to
re
asu
ple
a
is
It
building is ope n
es. As you ma y know, the
gel
An
s
Lo
at
ll
Ha
ic
son
:00 noon to 5 :00
Ma
Su nd ay aft ern oon , from 12
eve ry Fri day , Sa tur day and
Los An gel es. Th is
r lea se with the Cit y of
P .M .. as pro vid ed in ou
ray Gib son , wh o
W
sto dia n, Joseph
Cu
a
of
ent
ym
plo
em
the
de Los An gel es
nec ess ita tes
No . 195 at Wi nte rs. Pla za
dge
Lo
ye
cke
Bu
of
er
mb
is a me
Th urs day , the first
the Ol d Ma son ic Ha ll on
in
ets
me
814
.
No
dge
Lo
Me eti ng dat e.
who sig ned the
Th urs day being the Sta ted
re hav e bee n 825 0 visitors
Du rin g the pas t yea r the
ers, 450 memmb
me
ic Ha ll- 45 20 Ca lifo rni a
ers of foreign
mb
reg iste r in the Ol d Ma son
me
102
,
the Un ite d Sta tes
in
ons
icti
isd
jur
er
oth
m
ber s fro
ers.
ito rs wh o we re no t memb
jur isd icti ons and 3178 vis
Gr and Lo dge for
by
de
ma
n of $1500.00
tio
ria
rop
app
an
s
wa
ere
Th
ted for the use of
ll and $465.00 wa s col lec
Ha
the
of
nce
ena
int
ma
the
814 or oth er Lodges.
Lo s An gel es Lo dge No .
the bui ldi ng by Pla za de
lifo rni a at a cos t of
use by the Lo dg es of Ca
use thr oug h
Th e Ha ll is ava ilab le for
s ma y be ma de for its
ent
gem
ran
Ar
g.
etin
me
$25.00 per
Sec ret ary .
the Office of the Gr an d
coming yea r.
ria tio n of $1500.00 for the
rop
app
an
g
tin
ues
req
are
We
wa ge for the
to the fact tha t the hou rly r.
due
ed
uir
req
is
t
oun
am
Th is
per hou
sed ove r the pre sen t $1 .25
Cu sto dia n mu st be inc rea
mi tted .
sub
y
ull
Re spe ctf
MA TT HE W M. Co ooN
FR AN K HA RW ELL , JR.
LEO E. AN DE RSO N

Re fer red to Co mm itte e on

Fin anc e.

CO MM IT TE E ON
RE PO RT OF SP EC IA L
N
MA SO NI C ED UC AT IO

of California:
Gr an d Lo dg e F. & AM .
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipf ul
rni a is more
the Gr and Lo dge of Ca lifo
hin
wit
n
tio
uca
Ed
ic
son
Ma
time the stu den t will
lly known. Fro m time to
wid esp rea d tha n is gen era
even Pa st Gr and
on e of ou r ow n sch ola rs.
jurisdiction bef ore
come upo n the nam e of
r
a pap er pub lish ed in ano the
Ma ste rs, at the by- lin e of
ic Ed uca tio n as
son
Ma
Co mm itte e on
dge
Lo
d
an
Gr
s
thi
of
the adv ent
var iou s Co mm itte es
iew of the his tor y of the
rev
e
Th
d.
ute
stit
con
now
ed in the Pro cee dCa lifo rni a is we ll doc um ent
in
n
tio
uca
Ed
ic
son
Ma
on
rea der wh o has no t
me nd this acc oun t to the
ings of 1963, an d we com
rep ort .
st hel pfu l pre lud e to thi s
alr ead y stu die d it. as a mo
erm ine the sta tus
det
1963, set out to
in
ed
ort
rep
ire
nna
stio
Th e que
lly completed.
and Jurisdictiom;. It is vir tua
Gr
48
in
n
tio
uca
Ed
ic
son
of Ma

GR AN D LODGE OF CA

LIF OR NIA

261

ore Gr and Lodge.
itin g, some two mo nth s bef
Un for tu.n ate ly. at thi s wr
the result can no t be
com ple tely compiled; so
the replies hav e not bee n
rep ort ed in the se pag es.
pro mo ted by the
uca tio n has bee n actively
Ed
ic
son
Ma
of
se
cau
e
Th
more Lo dg es are
Lo dge s thi s yea r. Mo re and for edu cat ion al
rch
sea
Re
a
rni
lifo
Ca
~
rs
fou
rby availability of spe ake
tak mg adv ant age of the nea
n of fine pap ers
tio
duc
pro
g
uin
tin
con
hav e a
t the Sta te. It
pro.grams. '!h ese ~dges
hou
oug
d and use d thr
ate
cul
cir
y
vel
nsi
xpe
ine
is gro win g each
wh ich are
s ser vic e an d inf orm ati on
thi
of
s
nes
are
aw
t
tha
s
app ear
Re sea rch Lo dge s
ul wh eth er the Ca lifo rni a
btf
dou
is
it
ile
wh
and
r,
y~a
out str ipp ing the ir
ber s. the ir influence is far
will eve r be lar ge in num
memberships.
ati on is tha t of
ava ilab le Ma son ic inf orm
ed aut hor iza On e ins tan ce of the use of
eiv
rec
and
. wh ich req ues ted
415
.
No
dge
Lo
l
we
Tro
Sil ver
and cir cul ate d by
. Da vis boo kle t pub lish ed
W
ert
Elb
the
t
rin
rep
to
tion
aso n Ab ou t Fre en a Ma son Te ll a No n-M
thi s Committee, "W ha t Ca
ma son ry. "
nal cau se is tha t
in the Ma son ic Ed uca tio
An ins tan ce of ing enu ity
ang ed for shelf
arr
r
Lo dge , which thi s yea
ic Books. Th ey
of the El Ca mi no Re sea rch
son
Ma
bli c Lib rar y for
Pu
ew
Vi
n
tai
un
Mo
the
to han dle all
spa ce in
y to ma int ain the boo ks and
rar
Lib
the
for
ion
vis
pro
Ho we ver . onl y
ma de
s are ope n to the public.
cat alo gui ng. Th ese she lve books.
Ma son s ma y bor row the se
ert W . Da vis ,
ed a pap er thi s yea r by Elb
Yo ur Co mm itte e has pub lish ha t's Wr on g Wi th Ma son ry. " Th is
itle d , "W
eti ng of the
Pa st Gr and Lec.turer. ent
ho r at the Sec ond Joi nt Me
aut
the
by
ted
sen
pre
s
n cir cul ate d
pap er wa
Fre sno in l 963 . lt has bee ion piece
in
s
dge
Lo
rch
sea
Re
a
Ca lifo rni
as a com pan
in Ca lifo rni a Jur isd icti on
thi s yea r to eve ry Ma ste r
ic Pra cti ces 196 3."
son
Ma
on
al Commission
to the "R epo rt of Sp eci
stio ns rai sed in ou r
of the more im me dia te que
Th is pap er ans we rs som e
rep ort . It is being
Co mm iss ion 's mo num ent al
Lo dge s as a res ult of the a pri ce of 1Oc per copy.
at
ma de gen era lly ava ila ble
3 Pro cee dklet ant ici pat ed in the 196 the time
boo
er
sw
An
and
ion
est
Th e Qu
ava ilab le by
y complete, and ma y be
ing s rep ort is sub sta nti all
1.
196
er,
tob
Oc
ven ed in
Gr and Lo dge sha ll hav e con
ear ed on the
wa rd H. Sie ms , aga in app
Ed
y.
tar
Ou r Gr and Se cre
n and ans we r pro ste m facilities in a que stio
oth er que stio ns
Co lum bia Bro adc ast ing Sy
l han dli ng of tel eph one d and
ove the com gra m dur ing July. Hi s ski llfu
rem
to
has bee n edi ted
e
tap
e
Th
ed.
tap
tely
wa s comple
on req ues t.
ble for gen era l cir cul atio n
mercials, and will be ava ila
Lo dge s wa s
of the Ca lifo rni a Re sea rch Co mm itte e
s
Th e Th ird Joint Me eti ng
thi
of
es
pic
tur day , un der the aus
hel d July I Ith , 1964, Sa
wa s well adv ern Fra nci sco . Th e meeting
Sa
e,
enu
Av
ss
Ne
n
Va
at 25
lar gel y from the
special committee , dra wn
a
by
ed
par
pre
and
d
tise
as the ho st Lo dge .
rch Lodge, wh ich act ed
No rth ern Ca lifo rni a Re sea

NIA
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR
262

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ori gin : "L et
th tim ely an d Ma son ic in
bo
s
wa
ng
eti
me
the
of
Wo rsh ipf ul
Th e the me
s op ene d by the Mo st
wa
ng
eti
me
e
Th
g."
Fre edo m Rin
her e ap pe nd ed :
Ma ste r. Th e pro gra m is
Elm er W . He ald , Gr an d
PR OG RA M
ul Elm er W . He ald ,
ma rks by Mo st Wo rsh ipf
1 :15 P.M .-O pe nin g Re
s in Ca lifo rni a.
Gr an d Ma ste r of Ma son
lto n E. Am ma nn ,
Ca n Ed uca te Hi ms elf . Mi
son
Ma
a
ow
.-H
d Me mb er
M
P.
:45
I
rni a Re sea rch Lodge an
Ma ste r, So uth ern Ca lifo
n.
tio
uca
Ed
ic
e on Ma son
of Gr an d Lo dg e Co mm itte
Jr., Sa n
in.
Ste
d
Ha rol
sea rch for Ev ery Ma son .
2: 15 P. M. -M as onic Re
Gr ou p.
Fra nci sco Ma son ic Stu dy
ic Education. Al ex
ce
ast Co nfe ren on Ma son
Co
c
cifi
Pa
Lib rar y
.-A
M
P.
5
2:4
Gr an d Lo dg e Bo ard of
Ho rne , Me mb er of the
Commissioners.
s, Ch air ma n, Gr an d
oth erh oo d. Ro ber t B. W att Pra cti ces .
Br
ic
on
as
-M
M.
P.
5
3:4
ion on Ma son ic
Lodge Sp eci al Commiss
i, Se nio r W ard en .
by Pre ssu re. Attilio Pa ris
nt
me
ern
ov
.-G
P.M
15
4:
rch Lo dg e.
So uth ern Ca lifo rni a Re sea
W . Da vis ,
w an d Fr eem aso nry . Elb ert
La
the
m.
do
ree
.-F
P.M
4:4 5
Pa st Gr an d Lecturer.
on To pic s by
Summation of Af ter no
d
an
n
sio
us
isc
dg es an d
.-D
5:1 5 P.M
of the Fo ur Re sea rch Lo
Ma ste rs an d W ard en s
n.
tio
uca
Ed
itte e on Ma son ic
the Gr an d Lo dg e Co mm
Kn ow Yo u."
5:4 5 P.M .-" Ge tti ng to
RING.
8:0 0 P.M .-L ET FREEDOM no rin g the Sig nin g of the De cla rat ion of
Ho
A Pro gra m
6.
Ind epe nd enc e, Jul y 4. 177
.
All
to
Op en
Mu sic al Pre lud e.
om To .
Freedom From an d Freed
dg e of
Or ato r of the Gr an d Lo
d
an
Gr
.
pp
Eu ge ne S. Ho
Ca lifo rni a.
Mu sic al Int erl ud e.
ndence.
Th e Declaration of Indepe
u of
er of the Sp eak er' s Bu rea
mb
Me
n,
Ge org e W . Nilsso
at Va lle y Fo rge .
the Fre edo m Fo un dat ion
conclusion of eac h
and ans we r per iod at the
Th ere will be a question
floor.
est ion s are inv ite d from the
spe ake r's pre sen tat ion . Qu
er "W hy W ere
rize by qu oti ng from a pap
In closing, let us summa
ile he wa s Jun ior
W . Co bu rn, wr itte n wh
Ira
by
"
ns?
aso
em
Fre
Th ey
a: "M aso nry is ou tan d Lo dg e of Ca lifo rni
Gr
the
of
n
rde
Wa
d
an
Gr
ug ht to the ind iedom of choice an d tho
fre
ers
off
it
e
aus
bec
sta nd ing

263

.' Th ere is no
ow n ' free will an d acc ord n·
ir
the
of
it
to
·
e
com
n
Me
sio
vidua.1.
ht an d exp res
· 0 urs is a
rag es freedom of tho ug
coe~c1on. It enc ounk
men ."
so oe ty of free thi ing
Ed uca tion for ou r
ing cha rte r for Ma son ic
fitt
re
mo
a
be
ld
cou
at
yY~
ping ali gh t the tor ch
bli c Schools, for ou r kee
Pu
e
fre
r
ou
~o
n
t1o
1ca
ded
of tho ug ht an d ex res this sta tem ent ? "F ree do m
p
o.f freedom itself, tha nfre
nking men."
thi
e
of
y
iet
soc
a
.
.
.
s1on
Re spe ctf ull y submitted,
MILTON E. AMM ANN
WILLIAM F. POYNTER
JOSEPH A. P!VER NETZ
HENNING J. LUEDERS
EDWARD L. KELLA S
PANOSH
LEONEL
CLYDE B. TYLER
FRANK REINSCH
LOUIS L . CUNN INGHAM
LEE
DAVID
Fin anc e.
Re fer red to Co mm itte e on

c.
c.

PR OG RA M
EDUCATION SEMINAR
GRAND LoDGE MASONIC
1964
TUESDAY, O CTOBER 13,
CL AS S SC HE DU LE
w the sig ns.
as for eac h lec tur e. Fo llo
are
ng
eti
me
new
the
te
~o
ed from 7:4 5
. to 7:3 5 an d are rep eat
P.M
0
7:0
m
fro
un
r
.
~~
to 8 : 2o0u

7:00 P. M. -A ud ito riu m
stl ebo ard Pla nn ing
Lo dg e Me eti ng an d Tre
( 36 0 )
) an d He nry D. Ol iph ant
Dan·iel M. Ca me ron ( 20 rch Lo dg e
No rth ern Ca lifo rni a Re sea
Co mm itte e Ro om s 5-6
blic Sc ho ols
Re cen t Tr en ds in Ou r Pu
5)
68
(
i
ris
Pa
At tili o G.
rch Lo dg e
So uth ern California Re sea
Sec on d Floor
n of To mo rro w
To da y's De Mo lay -M aso
Ro ber t N. Ro uch ( 294}
rch Lo dg e
Ce ntr al Ca lifo rni a Resea
Ex hib it Ha ll
dg e
rsh ip in the Ma son ic Lo
Pa nel Di scu ssi on : Le ade
) : Kenwi n S. S. Ha ys, Jr. ( 761
Os we T. Lu nd ( 761 ) ; Ed
(761 )
m
om as J. Mc Wi llia
'
net h Fe ise (34 6); Th
Mo de rat or
dge
El Ca mi no Re sea rch Lo
.
7:15 P .M
o wish
ed in ord er tha t tho se wh
eat
rep
be
l
wil
ns
sio
ses
All
gra m.
may cho ose a sec on d pro

264

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GEN ERA L SES SIO N
Mai n Aud itori um of the Mem oria l Tem
ple
8:30 P.M . to 10:0 0 P.M .
Ope n to all frien ds
A thirt een- minu te soun d and color film.
prod uced by the Mason'.c
Club at Berkeley: " Just Wh at a Coll ege
Stud ent Does at the Mas onic
Club ."
INT ROD UCT ORY REM ARK S
ELM ER W. HEA LD. Gra nd Mas
ter
Ach ieve men ts of the Ord er of Job' s Dau
ghte rs
Judy She rrill, Gran d Bethel Hon ored
Que en
DeM olay Flow er Talk . . . . Rod
Rimmer, Jr.
Fres no Cha pter . Ord er of DeM olay
DeM olay Ach ieve men ts . . Rich ard
J. Ken yon
Mas ter Cou ncilo r, Cali forn ia Stat e DeM
olay Assn.
and atte nded by
Bob Wal ker, Mas ter Councilor, N. Cali
f. Juris diction
Mik e Dav is, Mas ter Councilor. S. Cali
f. Juris diction
Mus ical Sele ction s . . . . . .
Pam Vaw ter
Ord er of the Rain bow for Girl s
Ach ieve men ts of the Ord er of the Rain
bow for Girl s
Jan Top ping . Gra nd Wo rthy Adv isor
BEN EDI CTI ON
DR. LEST ER E. BoN D, Gra nd Cha
plain
POS TLU DE
Prog ram unde r the direction of the
Gran d Lod ge Com mitt ee on Mas onic Edu
catio n
HAR OLD MUE LLER , Gra nd Org
anis t

REP OR T OF COD E CO MM ISS ION

To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod ge
F. & A. M . of C~lifor~ia:
you r Cod e Com miss ion is pleased to
repo rt that, m sp1~e ~f the
prin ters' strike, we were able to make a
reaso~~bly prom pt publtea~1on of
a cumulative supp leme nt covering the
dec1s10ns and chan ges m our
laws in the year s 1957 to 1963 inclusive.
As usua l. plan s have been mad e
for the publication of the next supp leme
nt whic h will incl~de the chan ges
in law mad e at this Com mun icati on.
Alth ough the stnk~ has not yet
been settl ed, we will ende avor to have
the supp leme nt delivered as soon
as possible afte r the clos e of this Communic
·... It is agai n requ este d that an appr opri ~tion.
ation of $150.00 be mad e to
cove r possible tra vel and othe r expe nses
.
Resp ectfu lly subm itted .
WIL LIAM NA NKERVIS, JR.
Eow ARD T. KoPO RD
DAV ID P. Rus sELL
EvER ETT Hou sER . .
LEON ARD S. LuRI E

Refe rred to Com mitt ee on Fina nce. ,

GRAN D LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

REP OR T OF CO MM ITT EE ON TA

265

XA TIO

N
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod ge
F . & A. M. of California:
Sinc e filing our repo rt for 1963, ther e
have been no chan ges in the
payr oll tax laws or the Fede ral Admissio
ns Tax which appl y to our vari ous Mas onic orga niza tion s. How ever ,
befo re the year 1964 ends , we
may have some chan ges in the Fede ral
Soci al Secu rity Act whic h will
affect the wag e base and/ or tax rates
paya ble unde r the Fede ral Insu rance Con tribu tion s Act.
As has been our cust om in past year
s, we pres ent, for refe rence
purp oses , the usual sche dule of tax rate
s and wag e base s for the various
payr oll taxe s whic h will be in effect duri
ng the cale ndar year 1965 and
ther eafte r, subj ect to the qualification refe
rred to in the prec edin g para grap h. We agai n present in our repo rt
a section on Fede ral Adm issio ns
Tax .
FEDE RAL WIT HHO LDIN G (IN COM

E) TAX

All wag es paid to employees of a Mas
onic lodg e are subj ect to
Fede ral income tax with hold ing. In orde
r to dete rmin e the amo unt of
income tax whic h is to be with held from
wag es paid to its employees.
the lodg e shou ld ask each employee to
complete and file with the Secr etary of the lodg e a Fede ral Form W-4 ,
Emp loye e's With hold ing Exe mption Cert ificate. Refe renc e to with hold
ing tax table s furn ishe d by the
Trea sury Dep artm ent will enab le the Secr
etar y to dete rmin e the amo unt
to be with held .
FEDE RAL I NSU RAN CE CONT RIBU

TION S (SOC IAL SECU

RITY )
An emp loye e o f a Mas onic lodg e is subj
ect to tax for each cale ndar
quar ter duri ng whic h he earn s $50, or
more. The tax rates show n belo w
are appl icab le to the first $1.8 00 of wag
es paid to each employee duri ng
the cale ndar year . The se rate s are to be
paid by both the emp loye r and
the emp loye e.
Cale ndar Yea r
Perc ent
1965
3%
1966 thro ugh 1967
41'8
1968 and ther eaft er
4%
The re is a poss ibili ty that chan ges may
be mad e by the Con gres s
in the wag e base and/ or perc enta ge rate
appl icab le to the year 1965.
FEDE RAL UNE MPL OYM ENT T.Ax

Mas onic lodg es will be subj ect to this
tax if they emp loy four or
mor e indiv idua ls who are paid $50 or
more per cale ndar quar ter, providin g they have first qualified as an "em
ploy er" by employing four or
more employees on at leas t one day in
each of twen ty or more wee ks
duri ng the cale ndar year . For this purp
ose. all paid employees of the
lodge, including the Secr etar y and thos
e who are perf orm ing ritualistic
services (Til er. Org anis t, Solo ist). shou
ld be coun ted if they receive
$50 or more per calendar quar ter.

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Federal Unemployment Tax at the rates shown below will be
applicable to the first $3.000 of wages paid to each employee during the
calendar year. However, lodges which are subject to the California
Unemployment Insurance Tax law, and which meet certain requirements, will be entitled to a credit up to 2.7%. Only the employer pay•s
Federal Unemployment Tax.

CALIFO R NIA D rsABILITY INSURAN CE TAx

Calendar Year

(Gross)

M a.ximum Credit
fo r Payment of
Calif. Unemp. lns. Tax

1965 and therea fter

3.1 %

2.7 %

Tax Rate

Tax R.ate
(Net)

.4%

CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX

Masonic lodges will be subject to this tax if the total wages paid
during a calendar quarter to taxable employees are in excess of $100.
For this purpose a taxable employee is one who is paid $50 or more per
calendar quarter. However, whether or not elected or appointed officials
of a lodge are to be counted as taxable employees will depend upon
whether or not the lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax
Act.
If the lodge is not subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act,
then the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be exempt
from the California Unemployment Insurance Tax unless the wages paid
to these officials exceed $100 per month.
If the lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, then
the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be subject to
California Unemployment Insurance Tax if the wages paid to these
officials amount to $50, or more, per calenda r quarter.
For purposes of this tax, the term "elected or appointed official" will
include any official of the lodge who is compensated for his services.
Those usually compensated for their services are the Secretary, Tiler,
Organist, and Soloist.
If the lodge is subject to the California Unemployment Insurance
Tax, the tax rate shown below will be applicable to the first $3,800 paid
to each employee during the calendar year 1965. Only the employer pays
the tax.
Rates based on employment experience ,
Graduated from .3 % to a maximum of 3.0%.
State will furnish notifica tion of rate.
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX-SO LVENCY FUND

Wages <Subject to the ta x under the heading "California Unemployment Insurance Tax" will be also subject to this tax at the ra te of .5 % .
Only the employer pays this tax.

267

~he rules regarding coverage, discussed under the heading " Ca lifornia Unemployment Insurance Tax ," are the same for this part o f the
law. Only the employee pays this tax.
The tax rate is I % and it is applied to the first $5,600 paid to each
employee during the calendar year 1965.
FEDERA L A DM ISSIONS TAx

Masonic lodges are required to collect this ta x when the charge for
admission to social or other events is in excess of $1.00 per ad mission.
The ra te is 1c for each I Oc or major fraction thereof of the amount in
excess of $1.00 per admission.
There are requirements that tic kets separately state the amount of
tax being charged or, when tickets are not used. that some method be
followed to determine the num ber of persons admitted to the particula r
even t and the a mount of ta x due.
Respectfully s ubmitted ,
ALEXANDER

L. CROCE

]AMES E. HA M MON D
ROBERT R. YORK

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

268

PROCEE DING S OP THE ·

ME MO RIA L SER VIC E

t
.... Hal 'old Mue ller, Gra nd Org anis
Org an Pre lude....................................
d
Bon
The Ver y Rev eren d Les ter E.
Inv ocat ion ..........................................
.....................•...........•Aus tin Mos her
Voc al 5010..........................................
rten
................................... Ada m B. Mo
Nec rolo gy Rep ort. ..........................
od
Wo
E.
ie
Lesl
..
......
.................. ......
Eul ogy -Ch este r H . Wa rlow............
ee
cPh
Ma
ster
Che
......
......
..................
Eul ogy -Ar thu r M . Wa rren ............
t
alis
Voc
...
......
......
......
......
......
......
......
Voc al Solo ....... ....................................
n
plai
Cha
.................................... Gra nd
Ben edic tion ....................................
........ Gra nd Org anis t and Voca list
......
Tap s..................•....................... ......

NE CR OL OG Y
RE PO RT OF CO MM ITT EE ON
M . of Cal ifornia:
A.
6
Mo st Wo rshi pful Gra nd Lod ge F.

To the
of few day s, and full of trou ble.
"M an that is born of a wom an is
is cut dow n; he fleeth also as a
He cometh fort h like a flower, and
st
alm ight y fiat has gon e for th-" Du
sha dow , and con tinu eth not. " The
ject
retu rn," and that we are all sub
thou art, and unto dus t sha lt thou
of our lives furni shes evid enc e not
to that dec ree. the dail y obs erva tion
to be forg otte n.
Yea r, in a larg e num ber of our
Ma ny times duri ng the pas t Mas onic
e been repe ated by the ope n cask ets
con stitu ent Lodges, thes e wor ds hav
e
Lodge. Ma ny times in the pres enc
of dep arte d members of this Gra nd
the
is
s
been imp ress ed upo n us. Thi
of dea th the trut h of the wor ds has
the man y visi tatio ns of the "An gel
of
time when we take an ove r-al l view
.
nitu de of the loss es we have suffered
of Dea th," and face up to the mag
hed
reac
and
d
ease
incr
has grea tly
Aga in the num ber of the dep arte d
repo rt that the retu rns from the
to
has
ee
mitt
Com
r
You
an all time high.
dred fifty nine of our memhun
four
Lod ges indica te that we hav e had
ges
ee hun dred and twe lve of our Lod
bers rem ove d from our midst. Thr
loss
one
rted
ty seve n Lod ges repo
repo rted losses. One hun dred nine
; twe nty two Lod ges lost thre e
each
two
lost
each ; eigh ty six Lod ges
e
. Of the num ber repo rted five wer
each ; and six Lodges lost four each
The
ns.
rde
Wa
e
wer
five
and
th came.
Mas ters of thei r Lodges whe n dea
wer e Pas t Ma ster s.
nine
y
fort
dred
hun
four
ng
rem aini
d are som e well kno wn thro ugh out
arte
Am ong the nam es of the dep
d and beloved in the area s whe re they
the jurisdiction, and man y resp ecte
e some nam es on the list and some.
hav e serv ed. Mo st of us will reco gniz
long er, will rem emb er man y who se
for who m the sha dow s are grow ing
the
sens e of loss will be mea sure d by
nam es are here . The dep th of our
e who have gone.
clos ene ss of our asso ciat ion with thos
very high ly rega rded Past Gra nd
our
of
two
Thi s yea r we hav e lost
nd
serv ed this Gra nd Lod ge as Gra
Mas ters , both of who m had also
Lec ture rs:
nt in labo rs in Mas onr y and the
Che ster Har vey Wa rlow . abu nda
nia. An eulo gy for Bro ther Wa rlow
public life of the Stat e of Cal ifor

269

Mas ter Leslie E. Wo od.
will be pres ente d by Pas t Gra nd
Tre asu rer at the time of his dea th
H· Art hur Mel vin War ren , Gra nd
a warm and belo ved friend t~
ighl y resp ecte d as a counsellor. and
will
ge. An eulo gy for Bro ther W arre n
man y members of this Gra nd Lodster
e.
Phe
Mac
R.
be pres ente d by Wo rshi pfu l Che
men who well merit special mention
. ~here are man y othe r nam es of
ns of time we hav e to rest rict our
m I this repo rt. Thr oug h the limi tatio
who
or
ge,
es in this Gra nd Lod
~e ves to thos e "'."ho have serv ed in offic
ial way.
spec
very
a
in
ges
ave s~r~ed thei r Lod
pass ed awa y on Janu ary 10,
nd
akla
O
W1llzam Joseph Gar ibal di of
ibal di was a nati ve of Oak land
1
9~4. at the age_ of 85 years. Bro therin Gar
that city. He was raised a Mas ter
~ spe nt prac tica lly all of his life
Lod ge No. 61 and was Mas ter in
ason on M ay 12, 1905, in Live Oak
time
was elec ted secr etar y. Prom that
191.4. ~t the end of that yea r he
a
or
ce-f
tinu ed to serv e in that offi
unt'.I ;1s dea th last Jan uary he con serv ed this Gra nd Lod ge as Inperio of almost fifty yea rs. He also
t for som e time. In add ition to
~~ctor of the old 31th Mas onic Dis tric
land
ge, he was also Sec reta ry of Oak
~mg ~ecTtary of Live Oak Lod
For
n.
iatio
ssoc
A
d
Fun
onic
Mas
asomc. . emp!e Associa tion and the
Jury
as
ed
serv
od
peri
a
for
and
rest
commu.m~y affairs he had a dee p inte
med a. At the time of h" d th h
Comm1ss1oner for the Cou nty of Ala
e
Gol den Cha in Cha pter o?thee~rd er
was the olde st livin g. Pas t Patr on of
of the Eas tern Star
n
and faithful. and his influence upo
h ~is serv ice to Ma son ry was long
d.
sure
mea
be
not
can
l
wel
serv ed so
t e ives of the man y bret hren he
ion with him writ es. "I will alw ays
ciat
asso
e
clos
a_n~.
Ion~
One who h~d a
all the r esponsibilities as Sec remem~er ht~ ~or his diligence in meeting
con stru ctive serv ice as Sec reta ry
r~tai(''.~ add1t1on to ~is_ very ~ctive and
exa mple of the man who
~pie ~ssoc1atton. Bill was a striking
· d
o t e
rsel f ' •· He 1·s survive
you
it
don e • do
·
firmly beli'feves , If you wan t it well
b h'
ildr en, and grea t gran dch ildr en.
;; w1 e, seve ral children, gran dchwe exte nd sym path y.
{
o a who wer e nea r and dea r to him
at Olivet Mem oria l P ark on the
f!t!attrup fag Jensen was stric ken
in
was dea d on arri val at the hosp ital
;vem ng of Peb ru_a ry 4, 1964, and
ent
s
rs of age. Bro ther Jens en had
outh San Fran cisco. H e was 62 yea
Memorial Par k. whe re he gre .: u
et
Oliv
the gre~ter part of his life at
ost of his mar ried Jife was spe ;:
wh~n has f~ther was Sup erin tend ent. M Exe
cuti ve Vic e Pre side nt at the
was
"':'hile ser: mg at the P ark, and he
whi ch he was a Pas t Ma sof
451,
time of his dea th._Cro cke r Lod ge No.
k
and he was buri ed in Oliv et Par
ter, con duc ted his funeral serv ice
yea rs.
whe re he had serv ed for so man y
Lod ge No. 454 on Sep tem ber 26
Jay Jens en was rais ed in Cro cke r
its Mas ter and also as its Sec reta ry'
19_22, an? late r serv ed tha t Lod ge as
i~
y and varied. He had served as Pres
His services to Ma~onry wer e man
in
r
ecto
Insp
er
form
a
ociation, was
den t of the Mas onic Sec reta ries Ass

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIF O RNIA

271

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

270

f h'1 death and for many years prior
.
~ ~ hed G' uests Committe e, serving
this Grand Lodge, and at thheetiDm:
.
1st10gms
of t
·
In communit y affairs he was Chairman
..
thereto, was Ch ~irman
with distinction in that posttio~. . n. H'is pas sing leaves a vacant place
d
Commissio
·
·fe daughter, a nd four gran , . h h'
.
of the C o Ima Planning his
.
w1
is
wit
loss
share
We
k
.
t
in our ran s.
children. to whom our sympathy goes ou . d f f . ld "Roy Lenthall
Roy Stuart Harold Lent hall. ln. the wop sb~u:ryn~~th and his heart
went home from a Ma~onic ~eting ~nb t e pent a large portion of his
u s f h.15 life was Masonry.
stopped." He was a native of ermon.
o
· Th great mterest
·f
1
t
b 23 1930 . he served
S
e
life in Oakland. Ca Lornta.
•
No 225 on eptem er
cl
~e 93 A ointed Inspector in January. 1 9~9.
Raised in Brooklyn
f his death. He was senior
as Master of that Lodge m 1 :1
he served District No. 354 unt1 tHe time o 1 o Chaplain of Alamedawas a s
. h E t Bay Area . de W
dens Associatio n and was a
Inspector m t e as
Contra Costa County M~sters. an . C~rb In spite of severe physical
~ £ r the Board of Relief. Roy
past President of Emeryvill e Ki~ats
~e oyears ago when returning
une~a
.
uc~e
confd
he
years.
for
handicaps
he was hlt by an auto and
had more than his share o su ermg. ot.
1
d
mg.
tation he was opera
.
long period. He later eve . b d f
home from a serv1Ce s
N
ther He was m e or a at Masonic banquets. ex t
·d ble difficulty
.
run ov~r b y ano
b t he still continued to serve
oped diabetes and had cons1 era d' .
Teacher of N azareth one
Gr~at
~~~n
conf
he developed a serious heart
suffering." Perhaps Roy
through
e~fect
his breth~en .f.or several y~rs.
t which made him so helpful
. h
writer said . He was ma e p
Lenthall developed the understffa n~mgh eard.ttred . Such a man passesh.on
h the su ermg e en
to his breth ren. th ro.ug . h hearts and lives of those who knew im.
but his influence .ab1de\1~ t ~ad few living rela tives. His wife of many
sister was away in Scotland, and
e H·
At the time of his cleat
nic brethren were his family and
H.'sMoneso
him.
ed
predeceas
years had
a
ts
· Sacramen to
h
the loss of a brother beloved.
his nep ew m
f District No. 612. passed away
mou~ne
we
when he went
nse to requests for in formaRobert William Nicol. Inspect.or o
on February 26th. Failing to r~cJ1~e·t~ :~~rding Brother Nico\. He was
tion. we are unable to give mut de aN 306 and a Past Master of that
an affiliate member of ~sh_lar clo I g: ec~~r in October• 194 5. a nd had
Lodge. He was comm1ss10nhe . n p A ny man who has gone through
·nee t at time.
J
•
d erved for almost n ineteen years as an
served contmuo_us v s1
sl for Masonry. We are deeply tha nkful
a~
Lodge
his
in
chairs
the
the onerous duties of his office. and
Inspector has labored ahbunNa.nt
.
m
tco
er
Brot
of
elity
fid
for the
11 h d'd for the Fratermty .
f
ector and former Junior Grand
I
e t
honor him or a
John Tyler Parker,]~·· t9!~rm;rot~:~ Parker was raised Janua ry l,
fr C a rmelita Lodge No. 599. H e was
Deacon. died on July
1940 and ably served the old
b
o
asSter
.
1918, and was a Past
.
. ned Inspector m eptem er.
.
comm1ss1o

7

°

tp .

d

r

M

.

511th District for many years. In 1957 he served this Grand Lodge as
Junior Grand D eacon. Many were enriched by his friendship and greatly
helped throug h his services.
Ne il M arion Ousley. a Brother held in very high regard in San Bernardino, entered into rest on May 28. 1964. Brother Ousley was a mem~
her of Damascus Lodge No. 648. being raised on January 26, 193 1, and
serving as its M aster in 1954. For a number of yea rs he served as Sec~
retary. holding that office at the time o f his dea th. He was amongst those
who have raised sons as Ma ster Masons. and he assisted in conferring
the degrees on three brothers, all of whom are now Past Masters, his
son-in-law, and five nephews. O ne of his brothers. Joseph L. Ousley.
is now Inspector of District No. 602 . A member of the Baptist Church,
he was active in many departmen ts of his Church. Always interested in
young people, he was Chairman of the Rainbow Assembly Board and
was also Chairman of the Youth C ommittee for the Sciots in 1962,
when he was voted the outstandin g "Sciot of the Year" by the S upreme
Assembly. When he died he was scheduled to receive public honors for
his service to a school for retarded children. He spent countless hours
ministerin g to the welfare of these young people a nd children. As a fi tting tribute to this fine Mason . over four hundred people attended his
funer al conducted by Damascus Lodge. Being a " Bridge and Building
Foreman." at his fu neral his Minister said , "While he built bridges of
steel. in his daily life he built bridges of gold in the hearts a nd lives of
his fellow men."
We rejoice that he has been part of our fellowship and we believe he
has heard his Master' s " V./ell done. good and faithful serva nt. enter
into the joy of thy Lord."
Robert/-/. T aylor was raised in the Celestial Lodge on July 14. 1964,
at the comparati vely early age of sixty one years.
Bob was East Bay from beginning to end. He was born in Oakland
in April. 1903, and died in Berkeley. He attended Oakland Technical
High School. w here he was a classmate of Inspector E. Lloyd H ansen
with whom he was a close friend to the end of his days. H e graduated
from University of C alifornia Dental School in 1924. He practiced fo r
a while in O akland, then opened an office in Albany. where he continued to practice to the time of his death. He ha d a career of distinguis hed
service in Masonry. A member of H enry M orse Stephens Lodge No.
541 , he was raised on Jan uary 27, 1943. and served that Lodge as Master in 1948. He became Inspector of District No. 348 in October, 1949.
and continued in that office until D ecember. 1960. H e was a Past President of East Bay M aste rs a nd Wardens Associa tion a nd served as
President o f M asters and P ast M asters Associatio n of Alameda and
Contra Costa Counties. D uring the years Bob served on various Grand
Lodge Committe es.

PROCEED INGS OP THE

272

Music was his avocatio n. He was a skilled musician and played the
piccolo, Bute, clarinet and saxophon e. He had been a member of Oakland Boys' Band, Bohemia n Club Band, Scottish Rite Orchestr a, and
Aahmes Temple Shrine Band.
He was dentist for the former Oakland Baseball Team and was a
member of the Sportsm en's Club of Albany.
While Robert Taylor was a man of wide interests a nd many activities. he was also a genial. kindly. warm-he arted person. Many of us
will remembe r him longest for his warm friendliness. and we are thankful we were privileged to enjoy fellowship with him. Our sincerest sympathy goes out to his wife and daughter s.
There are many names on the list which is a part of this report. One
Brother. Leonard Arthur Walton of Enterpri se Lodge No. 70. was one
of the oldest members of this Grand Lodge. He was raised on March
26. 1892. and served as Master of his Lodge in 1897. He was a member
of this Grand Lodge for at least sixty six years. There are the names
oI men who served on school boards, city councils , and a t least one who
served for many years as Mayor of his city. There are some whose
integrity in public life and in business added lustre to the name of
Mason. All those on the list served their Lodges for many years and
helped to make Masonry a respected title in the land. We honor them
for it, and are thankful to God that we enter into their labors.
"We shall ever cherish in our hearts the memory of our departed
Brothers and, commending their spirits to Almighty God. we trustingl y
leave them in the hands of that Beneflcient Being who has done all
things well; who is glorious in His Holiness . wondrou s in His power
and boundles s in His goodness ; and it should always be our endeavor
so to live that we, too. may be found worthy to inherit the kingdom
prepared for us from the foundati on of the world."
ADAM B. MORTEN
RAYMON D

J. FISHER

MERLIN J. TABER, JR.
EDGAR M. ANDERSO N

WILLIAM E. RIFE

EULOG IES
CHEST ER HARVE Y WARLO W
Past Grand Master
See Page 343
ARTHU R MELVIN WARR EN
Past Grand Master
See Page 347

GR!\ND LODGE OP C.A.LIPORNI.A.

PAST MASTER S. MAST.ERS AND WARDEN S
Of' CONSTIT UENT LODGES
Californi a Lodge No. 1
Francis Valentine Keesling, died Septeber 25, 1963
Raimon Francis Conlisk, died Novembe r 16, 1963
Daniel Elisha Foote Easton, died December 2, 1963
Herman Valentine Banzet, died May 10, 1964
Western Star Lodge No. 2
Walter Raymond Ray, died Novembe r 19, 1963
Floyd J. Hyatt, died April 6, 1964
Nevada Lodge No. 13
Claude Ferguson , died January 21, 1964
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17
Simon Robert Cazat, died Septemb er 8. 1963
Charles Baker, died March 7, 1964
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19
Clarence Albert Wood, died February 5, 1964
Washingt on Lodge No. 20
Elbert Jean Luxinger , died Septemb er 3, 1963
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
Andrew Smith Davidson , died October 9, 1963
Arthur Lewis Davis, died October 20, 1963
Occident al Lodge No. 22
Arthur Hobart Halloran , died January 15, 1964
Madison Lodge No. 23
Ward Aslee Johnson. died April 5, 1964
Mariposa Lodge No. 24
George McPherso n Stark, died J anuary 11, 1964
Ophir Lodge No. 33
Walter Henry Weir, died October 28, 1963
Howard Lodge No. 37
Clyde Hebard, died August 27, 1963
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38
Benham Milford Eisner, died February 8, 1964
Sherwoo d Earl Meredith , died June 2, 1964
Sacramen to Lodge No. 40
Mark Samuel Edson, died January 23, 1964
Arthur Fredrick Henning, died June 27, 1964
Martine:s Lodge No. 41
Henry August Hartz, died Novembe r 11, 1963
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42
Robert L . VanZand t, died Novembe r 23, 1963
Hiram Lodge No. 43
John Caeser Forni, died F ebruary 28, 1964
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 4-4
Henry Harringto n McGowa n, died October 16, 1963
Illinoisto wn Lodge No. 51
James Howard Smith, died August 9, 1963
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57
Frederick Oran Reeder, died August 26, 1963
Union Lodge No. 58
Edwin Milton Wilderi_d ied October 7, 1963
John Robinson , died Novembe r 4, 1963
David Lindsay Joslyn, died Decembe r 12, 1963
Drury DeWolf Butler, died March 2, 1964
Plumas Lodge No. 60
Marion Bruce Myers, died April 4, 1964
Lln Oak Lodge No. 61
William Joseph Garibaldi , died January 10, 1964

273

GRA ND LODG E OP CALI PORN IA

27':1

.

.. PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

Mor ning Star Lodg e No. 68
·· - ·ust 25, 1963
Cha1:les Lesli~ Ellis , died Augd:ied
mbe r 11, 1963
Wilh am Perc ival F ergu sson . June Dece
·
9 1964
Don ald L C'ster Stew art died
'
Ente rpris e Lodge No. 70 '
uary 16, 1964
Leon ard ~rthur Walt on, died Febr
1964
Merl W1l11 am Brem er, die d June 11,
Yolo Lodg e No. 81
1963
Char les Ross ite r Hop pin, died July 30,
Nava l Lodg e No. 87
er 29, 1963
Will iam McKenzi e Hind , died Nov emb
91
No.
e
Lodg
Star
h
Nort
22 1963
Will iam Davidson Math ews ' died July '
103
No.
e
Lodg
ille
Orov
14 1963
Gorh am Alon zo War d, died Octo be r '
Lexi ngto n Lodg e No. 104
er 6, 1963
Amos Bagl ey Turn er. died Nov emb ry
31, 1964
. Jam es Erce l Clem inson . died J anua
Pa1a ro Lodg e No. 110
1964
Thor nton Clyd e Tho rp. died Marc h 9 '
Chic o Lodg e No. 111
r 8 1963
Will iam Oliv0r Ba iley, died Nov embe '
Sum mit Lodg e No. 112
17, 1964
Nels on Erne st Coll ins, died Janu ary
Conc ord Lodg e No. 117
Hen ry Edga r Ott. died Octo ber 9' 1963
Fide lity Lodg e No. 120
1963
Rich ard Irvin g Ston e, died Aug ust 12,
A lamo Lodg e No. 112
1963
Ada m Hen ry Krag e!, died Octo ber 21,
Soto yom e Lodg e No. 123
24 1963
John Albe rt Rein e rs, died Octo ber
Orri n Will is Enge lke, died Apri l 30' 1964
Tabl e Mou ntain Lodg e No. 124
15, 1964
War ren Alex ande r Kitc hen , died May
Herm ann Lodg e No. 127
1964
Karl Geo rge Albu schkat, died May 6'
Woo dbrid ge Lodg e No. 131
Max A. Man n. d ied F ebru ary 28 ' 1964
Vaca ville Lodg e No. 134
11 1963
Geor ge Cam pbel l Linn . died Dece m ber '
Pacif ic Lodg e No. 136
Mar k Altm an, di ed Au gust 20, 1963
Fran k Mue ller, died Sept emb er 24 ' 1963
Fran klin Lodg e No. 143
Mil o Erne st Dye , died Dece m ber 6 ' 1963
Orie ntal Lodg e No. 144
Roy N. Buel l, died Nov emb er 3' 1963
Eel Rive r Lodg e No. 147
J oh n Edw ard Nort h, died May 16, 196-1
Lass en Lodge No. 149
ary 23 1964
J ames Alex ande r Nutt ing, died Janu
'
Moli no Lodg e No. 150
1964
26,
l
Apri
died
son,
Fred er ick Ma rion Claw
Woo dlan d Lodg e No. 156
Geor ge Dale Mille r, died June 17, 1964
Alam eda Lodg e No. 167
emb er 27 1963
Charles Dwi ght Cogs well, di ed1, Nov
'
1964
l
Apri
died
,
Pihl
on
J ohn Gibs
168
Redw ood City Lodg e No.
emb er 12 1963
Norr is Ceci l Cum ming s, died Sept
er 23, 1963
Aug us t Erne st Lueger, died Nov emb

Miss ion Lodg e No. 169
er 1, 1963
J ames Daniel Skid more , died Nov emb
h 6, 1964
Char les Well ingt on G oodw in, died Marc
J e an Men dribi l. died June 29, 1964
Elk Grov e Lodg e No. 173
1964
J ohn Loga n Wat erma n, died May 17,
174
No.
e
Lodg
Dryt own
Dom enic k Boe, died June 28, 1964
Anti och Lodg e No. 175
l 1, 1964
Lela nd Frede rick Hulbert, died Apri
179
No.
e
Men doci no Lodg
1964
Casi mir J ackson W ood, died Apri l 7,
Peta luma Lodg e No. 180 died Febr uary 20, 1964
L ewis Hall Crom well,
Clea r Lake Lodg e No. 183
25. 1964
Clar ance Wilb er Thom as, died Mar ch
Oak land Lodg e No. 188
Floy d Hen ry Vinc ent, di ed July 1, 1963
Sant a Barb ara Lodg e No. 192 died October 27. 1963
Edward Ga rdn er Dod ge,
er 12, 1963
Valm ond K eith Sha nnon , died Nov emb
Buck eye Lodg e No. 195
1963
L ouis A. Sack ett, died Nove mber 18,
198
No.
e
Lodg
n
ingto
Wilm
27, 1963
Clau de Walt er Cook , died Nove mbe r
Benj amin Brill iant, died Apri l 21, 1964
Hart ley Lodg e No. 199
'h 30, 1964
Edg ar Han sen Quigley, died MarCMay
7, 1964
died
,
ford
Craw
am
Grah
ard
How
201
No.
e
Silve yvill e Lodg
Harr y McF adye n, died July 17, 1963
Stan islau s Lodg e No. 206
23, 1964
Fred R usse ll DeL appe , died Janu ary
Ana heim Lodg e No. 207
1964
Guy Burtain Danie ls. died Janu ary 10,
210
}:fo.
e
Lodg
Frie ndsh ip
r 15, 1963
Will iam Leig h Ogd en, died Dece mbe
211
San Beni to Lodg e No.
Albe rt Willi am Hinz , died July 11, 1963
212
Sout h San Fran cisco Lodg e No.
mbe r 13, 1963
Geor ge And erson Last ein , died Nove
1964
Jose ph Ba rry Sylv ester . d ied Apri l 11,
215
No.
e
Oak Grov e Lodg
Geor ge Grah am, died May 26, 1964
Mon terey Lodg e No. 217 died June 24, 1964
Jam es Rich ard Brad y,
.
Spe rann ltali ana Lodg e No.o.21~
5. 1964
Aure lio Geor ge Dond er died Apn l
220
Dow ney Lodg e No.
Elm er Wilke rson . die d Marc h 13, 1964 h 13, 1964
Char les Mari on Van Duse n, died Marc
Rose ville Lodg e No. 222
13, 1963
Will iam Edw ard Row e, died Aug ust 27, 1964
J ohn Clift on Mug ford, died Febr ua ry
Broo klyn Lodg e No. 225
mbe r 7, 1963
Ken neth Hen shaw K eefe r. died Dece
ruar y 19, 1964
eb
F
died
hall.
Lent
ld
Haro
t
tuar
S
Roy
·
·
Athe ns Lodg e No. 228
Albe rt Brad y. died Dece mber 21, 1963
12, 1964
Gust av Ado lf Haus sler, died Janu ary
1964
Will iam Pete r Mag hetti , died May 14,

275

276

PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

Solan o Lodg e No. 229
5, 1963
Ches ter Park er Bern er, died Dece mber
Josep h Mont e Verd a, died Febr uary 26, 1964
North Butte Lodg e No. 230
1963
LaFo rrest Reed Thur ston, died Nove mber 22,
Calis toga Lodg e No. 233
Harr y Von Arx, died Augu st 19, 1963
h 10, 1964
Willi am Fran k Holm es, J r., died Marc20,
1964
Edwa rd Mario n Bord well, died June
234
No.
e
Lodg
Hope
Wilb ur S. Rows e, died Marc h 21, 1964
Surp rise Valle y Lodg e No. 235
Louis Hans en, died Octo ber 25, 19631963
Jesse Wing Stine r, died Octo ber 29,
Magn olia Lodg e No. 242
Fred Lyle John ston, died July 1, 1963 1963
Geor ge Albe rt Mille r, died Augu st 9,22, 1963
Cade Wilb ur Grow , died Dece mber
1964
Willi am Strat ton Porte r, died Febr uary 15,
Alca tru Lodg e No. 244
1963
Lowe ll Litch field Walk er, died Nove mber 1, 24, 1963
Newm an Elbri dge Warf ord, died Dece mber
Laur el Lodg e No. 245
1964
Geor ge Alex ande r Helst rup, died April 28,
Fresn o Lodg e No. 247
10, 1963
Ches ter Harv ey Warl ow, died Dece mber
Curti s Clark Balla rd, died Janu ary 12, 1964
Altur as Lodg e No. 248
1963
Peter Jack Sisto k, died Dece mber 17,
Fran k Jaspe r McC artor, died Janu ary 1, 1964
Lodi Lodg e No. 256
1963
Harr y John Tolli ver, died August 8, 18,
1964
John Frede rick Blak ely, died April
Penr hyn Lodg e No. 258
Alfre d Albe rt Pillia rd, died Janu ary 10, 1964
King Solom on's Seap ort Lodg e No. 260
Jame s Jacks on Yates , died Marc h 23,I,1964
Josep h Melv in Freel and, died April 1964
Heap erian Lodg e No. 264
Grov er Davi d Worl ey, died July 17, 1963
st 3, 1963
Virgi l Frank lin Alex ander , died Augu
1963
25,
ber
Octo
died
be,
McCa
Ellis
Rosc oe
Pasad ena Lodg e No• .272
Mine r B. Phili pps, died Dece mber 8, 1963
Arth ur Cox Kend all, died June 30, 1964
Sout hern Calif ornia Lodg e No. 278
17, 1963
Geor ge Raym ond Tann er, died Dece mber
16, 1964
ary
Janu
died
r,
lliste
McA
as
Thom
am
Willi
280
Made ra Lodg e No.
1963
Ray Victo r Secar a, died Nove mber 6,25,
1963
Harv ey Willi am Shum an, died July
Moun J Shas ta Lodg e No. 281
Lewi s Char les Story, died Nove mber 6, 1963
San Migu el Lodg e No. 285
Nove mber 12, 1963
Char les Robe rtson F orbes , J r., died
1964
14,
h
Marc
died
ie,
Hayn
Jim Ray
Geor ge Parke r, died Apri l 24, 1964
Willi am Dima s Forbe s, died June 16, 1964
Puo Robl es Lodg e No. 288
1964
Walt er Edwa rd Brewster, died Febr uary 2,
287
No.
e
Lodg
ah
edum
Wlnn
Fred Clare nce Clark , died May 5, 1964

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

Maxw ell Lodg e No. 288
1963
Willi am K. Sites, died Nove mber 25,
Geor ge Henr y Gord on, died Marc h 25, 1964
East Gate Lodg e No. 290
Fred Otto H offma nn, died June 19, 1964
Oran ge Grov e Lodg e No. 293 Dece mber 25, 1963
Sigfr ed W. Swan son, died
Mt. Jacks on Lodg e No. 295
1964
Sam Wayn e Aum an, died F ebrua ry 4, 1964
Fran k Tibet Buch anan , died J une 12,
Silve r Gate Lodg e No. 296
1963
Edwa rd J oseph Bern ard Coyn e, died July 21,
Duns muir Lodg e No. 297 Smit h, died Dece mber 10, 1963
Alex ande r Ober walte r
Liber ty Lodg e No. 299
Robe rt Alton H anson, died May 24, 1964
Clyd e Emor y Davis , died June 7, 1964
Onta rio Lodg e No. 301
Ulric h J ulius Schm id, died May 2, 1964
Azus a Lodg e No. 305
Thom as F . Heth , died Septe mber 30, 1964
Ashl ar Lodg e No. 306
Robe rt Willi am Nicol , died F ebrua ry 26, 1964
Santa Moni ca Lodg e No. 307
Ha rry H. Willi ams, died May 28, 1964
Delan o Lodg e No. 309
Geor ge Adin Osne r. d ied May 3, 1964
Los Bano s Lodg e No. 312 is. died Augu st 3, 1963
Howa rd Thom as Franc
1963
Lesli e Geor ge Sandell, died Octob er 28,
He nry J ames Pfe iffer, died Febru ary 19, 1964
Teha chap i Lodg e No. 313
Robe rt Gord on Nelson , died Augu st 17, 1963
Norw alk Lodg e No. 315
1963
George Willi am Arch er, died Septe mber 7,
319
No.
e
Holle nbeck Lodg
J ohn Alfre d Dyso n, died Apr il 20, 1964
Alisa ! Lodg e No. 321
Hilto n Lee Haile, died Marc h 20, 1964
.
Coro na Lodg e No. 324
Cedr ic Richm ond S traffo rd, died May 16, 1964
Cons uelo Lodg e No. 325
st 26, 1963
Robert Franc is Osma nn, died Augu
22, 1963
Willi am Ellsw orth Hard ing, died Nove mber
Long Beac h Lodg e No. 327
J ohn Thom as Tone r, died Janu ary 5, 1964
Redo ndo Lodg e No. 328
1963
Charles Whit e Wilb ere, died Dece mber 26,
329
No.
e
Valle e De Franc e Lodg
Carlo s Ment ion, died July 23, 1963
Maur ice Vanb r oeck, died June 6, 1964
Kilau ea Lodg e No. 330
1963
Geor ge Ross, died Septe mber 20,ebrua
ry 11, 1964
Clyd e Erlw ard Craw ford, died F
331
No.
e
Lodg
Pacif ic Grov e
Harry Wise man Buttle, died Dece mber 4, 1963
San Pedr o Lodg e No. 332
Jame s F. Smith , died Dece mber 7, 1963
Alta Lodg e No. 333
Stanl ey H. Hunew ill, died Octob er 25, 11163
Elbe rt Chut e Webb , d ied June 13, 1964

277

278

PRO

CEE DIN GS OP TH E

We st Ga te Lo dge No. 335 d Au gus t 3, 1963
1963
H. Wa lte r Ro bbi ns, die
ive r, die d No vem ber 19 '
Isa dor Be rna rd .Gr
336
Fru itv ale Lo dge No
d Fe bru ary 23, 1964
Ar thu r L loy d Lin dh, die
Ap ril 28, 1964
d
Joh n Hu gh Mo rris , die ck, die d Ma y 24, 1964
nco
Ha
n
col
Lin
uel
Sam
Ox nar d Lo dge No . 341
d Ma rch 2, 1964
Fra nk Wasse rm a n,ddie
rch 17, 1964
Ma
die
k.
Bec
ph
Ru dol
344
.
No
dge
Lo
g
4
Sta rr Kin
sla uer , die d Ap ril 22, 196
Da nie l Jos eph Bre
345
.
No
dge
Lo
Bre ntw ood
die d Jun e 2, 1964
Ro ber t N. Ge ntr y,
346
.
No
dge
Pal o Alt o Lo
4
die d Fe bru ary 29, 196
Ja!fl~S By ron . Bl<?iS,
2 1964
rch
Ma
d
die
n,
e
All
mm
'
Wi llia m Be nJa
Mc Kin ley Lo dge No . 347
4
196
20
ril
Ap
d
die
nn,
Iva n Th om as Co No . 348
'
San Be rna rdi no Lo dge
4
196
4,
e
Jun
d
die
Ra y Erv in O'B ier,
Pal est ine Lo dge No . 351
s, die d Oc tob er 26 ' 1963
Do rra nce E. Rh oad
354
.
No
dge
Lo
io
sid
1963
Pre
har ds, die d No vem ber 15,
He nry Sta nle y Ric
355
3
Ho lly wo od Lo dge No.
ll, die d No vem ber 10, 196
Ma rio n Sy lveste r Hu
357
.
No
dge
Lo
rk
3
Bu ena Pa
es, die d Sep tem ber 8, 196
Isa ac De loi t Jay nNo
358
.
dge
Lo
te
3
Go lde n Sta
en, die d No vem ber 5, 196
Ge org e Ho wa rd Wheel
ary 21 1964
anu
J
d
die
tt,
l"
nn
Be
us
'
Le ste r Eu bul
Lo dge No . 360
Sa n Fra ncisco · Vic tor y r, die d Sep tem ber 23 1963
e
ark
P
Wa lte r Alf red
1964
s J ebe , di ed J a nua ry 6'
Wi llia m Fra nciNo
361
.
Fo rt Bra gg Lo dge
4
J oh nso n, die d Ap ril 1, 196
No rm an Au gus.t 363
Be rke ley Lo dge No
n, die d Jun e 7, 196-1
Jul ian Jur iah Be nto
366
.
No
dge
Lo
s
ma
Pal
s
La
d Ma rch 14 1964
Sp eed Bu tle r Leas. die
r, di ed Ma~ch 22 ' 1964
hte
Ric
m
llia
Wi
rd
ffo
Cli
367
.
No
3
So uth Pas ade na Lo dge
er, die d Au gus t 7, 196
An dre w Oli pha nt P ort
De cem ber 30 1963
d
die
s,
ark
Sp
r
rne
Tu
'
Alf red
Un ity Lo dge No . 368
cem ber 25 196 3
De
d
die
,
th
Bly
nry
He
'
Ge org e
No . 370
/\m ity -Se al Ro ck Lo dge
tob er 16 1963
Oc
d
die
,
son
vid
Da
rd
J ohn Ho wa
d De cem ber 2 1963
J ohn Les lie We bb er, die
No . 37 1 '
dge
Lo
nie
cea
L'O
L e Pro gre s D e
d Sep tem b er 3. 1963
die
n,
pso
om
Th
Ha rry Go rd on . 372
No
Ga rde na Lo dge
n, die d Jul y 20, 1963
Wi llia m Wa lto n Pit ma
tob e r 19, 1963
Oc
d
die
Ed wa rd F. Ma y,
d Fe bru ary 7 1964
die
er,
J ohn Foster Sp enc
'
Jewel Lo dge No. 374
3
196
9,
er
tob
Oc
d
die
Ar nol d Ra y En gel , No . 380
dge
Lo
ach
Be
on
ngt
Hu nti
17 1963
ock ett, die d De cem ber '
Archi e Fra nkl in LNo
382
.
dge
Lo
rk
Hig hla nd Pa
d Au gus t l, 1963
Ro ber t He nry Gr ay, die

GR AN D LOD GE OF CA

LIF OR NIA

El Ce ntr o Lo dge No. 384
Au gus t 8, 1963
Ph ilip D. Sw ing, die ,d die
d De cem ber 22, 1963
aw
itel
Wh
G.
Do rse y
385
.
No
Din uba Lo dge
rum , die d Jun e 16, 1964
Sam uel Ern est Bu
388
.
No
dge
Par nas sus Lo
De cem ber 10, 1963 4
Ro y Ph ilip Lu tzi, die d die
d Jan uar y 30, 196
ce,
Pri
Th om as He nry
390
.
Im per ial Lo dge No Co llin s, die d Jan uar y 15, 1964
Co rne liu s Bru ce
Ea st Be lt Lo dge No . 391die d Ma rch 25, 1964
Ice ! Jos eph Big gs.
Tu rlo ck Lo dge No . 395 die d Decem ber 28, 1963
Joh n Hu go Ha llv ar,
Lig ht L odg e No . 397 De cem ber 20, 1963
ing
Ris
All ien M. Wh itse tt, d ied
Fra ter nit y Lo dge No . 399
, die d Ma y 31, 1964
Ge org e Mi ner Sm ith
. 400
No
dge
Lo
e
gam
rlin
Bu
uly 13, 1963
Wi llia m Wi lki n, die d J
401
.
No
dge
Lo
w
Ba y Vie
re, die d Jul y 8, 1963 1964
Fre d Wi llia m We tmorve
r, die d Jan uar y 28,
Ga
ard
eon
L
m
Wi llia
405
.
No
dge
Lo
r I, 1963
Mo net a
hroede r. die d No vem be
Wi lbe rn La wr en ce Sc
4
196
29,
rch
Fre der ick Fa th, die d MaAp ril 6, 1964
Stu art Be ll Da vis , die d er, die d Ma y 4, 1964
Ce cil Elm er Bo den ham
1963
Bu rba nk Lo dge No . 406
, die d De cem ber 2,196
4
J ohn Da nie l Cra bt ree
10,
y
uar
Jan
d
die
on,
ars
H arr y Ho me r L
La Me sa Lo dge No . 407
d Oc tob er 16, 1963
E arl Richar d Cla yto n , die
Ca lex ico Lo dge No . 412 n, die d Ap ril 23, 1964
Joh n Pro cto r Du nca
Ar lin gto n Lo dge N6 . 414
g, die d Oc tob er 4, 1963
Ru dol ph Gu sta ve Kie slin
bruary 21, 1964
Fe
d
die
,
r
Ka rl Lo uis Ra tze
Lin dsay Lo d ge No . 416 an, d ied Jul y 31, 1963
Ro llin Ine s Cle arm Lee s, d ied Feb rua ry 13, 1964
Ma rtin Co rnw all Mc , die d Ma y 21, 1964
Jos eph Ro des Be ned ict
Clo vis Lo dge No. 417
die d No vem ber 26, 1963
Ha rol d Cra wf ord Fin e,
420
Ke rm an Lo dge No . d Ap ril 17, 1964
Re ne Ste ine r, die
Ing lew ood Lo dge No . 421ll, die d Jun e 23, 1964
H arv ey Lo we Ty rre
Yo rk Lo dge N o. 423
r, die d Ma rch 23, 1964
Oth ello E van der Fra zie
Ex ete r Lo dge No . 424 ley, die d No vem ber 9, 1963
Ha rol d Ha rtfi eld Ha
Ho ltv ille Lo dge No. 425d De cem ber 19, 1963
Fre dri ck Big gs, die die d Ma rch 17, 1964
Jam es Ho wa rd Lo ng,
. 427
Ch ino Va lle y Lo dge No ns, die d Ap ril 3, 1964
Ha rry Rolan d Ste phe
428
Sa n Dim as Lo dge N o. tz, die d Se pte mb er 11, 1963
Ch arl es J ohn Goe
. 433
Ha mm ont on Lo dge No , die d Jan uar y 9, 1964
Me lvi n Em il Ew ert

279

GRAND LODG E OP CALI FORNIJ\

280

PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

Lanca ster Lodge No. 437
Edwa rd Gail Lanni ng, died Octob er 23, 1963
Allen Arthu r Weav er, died May 3, 1964
Stand ard Lodg e No. 440
Willi am Flack Wood, died Janua ry 27, 1957
Black mer Lodg e No. 442
Richa rd Hasti ngs Garla nd, died Octob er 23, 1963
Wilsh ire Lodg e No. 445
12, 1964
Richa rd Oldha m Mont rief, died Febru ary
Willia m Benja min Cleve s, died May 1, 1964
H omer Louis Breidenbac h, died June 10, 1964
Torra nce Lodge No. 447
Frank Thom pson , died Febru ary 14, 1964
John Henry Fess, died April 4, 1964
Moun t Diabl o Lodge No. 448
1963
Willia m Ralph Black burn, died Nove mber 14,
Royle Elliot King, died May 21, 1964
Parle Lodge No. 449
L eslie Burna p Fox, died April 11, 1964
Mont ebello Lodge No. 451
Orvil le Davis Bayer , died Nove mber 3, 1963
San Pasqu al Lodg e No. 452
Natha niel Perry Moer dyke, died Augu st 24, 1963
Crock er Lodge No. 454
ber 27, 1963
Robe rt MacM illan Smith , died Decem
Ma ttrup J ay Jensen , died Febru ary 4, 1964
Ramo na Lodge No. 457
Sherm an C. Fowle r, died Septe mber 6, 1963
Henr y S. Orme Lodge No. 458
Owen Taylor Wilki nson, died Marc h 25, 1964
Argo naut Lodge No. 461
Edwi n J oseph Barsh ell, died Augu st 24, 1963
Paul Rever e Lodge No. 462
Allen Edwa rd Aitel, died Augu st 13, 1963
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
Samu el Lawr ence Clark , died Decem ber 13, 1963
Culve r City Lodge No. 467
Samu el Rowe . died June 21, 1964
Rock ridge Lodge No. 468
8, 1963
Marsh all J ohn Ruthe rford. died Septe mber1963
Anth ony Charl es Mecc a, died Octobe r 20,
Yorb a Linda Lodge No. 469
J ohn Wesle y Brow n, died F ebrua ry 7, 1964
Linco ln Lodge No. 470
Alexa nder McBi rney, died Dece mber 3, 1963
Arthu r Cohen , died Janua ry 3, 1964
Mario n Cle mens, died Marc h 3, 1964
Delta Lodge No. 471
16, 1963
Chris tian Eman uel Stabl er, died July1964
Willia m David Platek , died April 30,
Maui Lodge No. 472
Arthu r Bristo w Brow n, died April 13, 1964
Blyth e Lodge No. 473
T ony Seele y, died May 13, 1964
Ira Alvan Lee, died June 29, 1964
Amer ica Lodge No. 475
Hilto n L ittle, died Dece mber 15, 1963
Coach ella Lodge No. 476
Rex Theod ore Johns on, died June 2, 1964
Thou sand Oaka Lodge No. 478
Robe rt Clayt on Pauli, died Augu st 31, 1963

Mt. David son Lodge No. 481
Charles Lelen d Blair, died Dece mber 15, 1963
Arthu r Melvi n Warre n, died May 21, 1964
Bell Lodg e No. 483
Wilbu r 0. Fawle y, died Dece mber 14, 1963
Dunc an E. Sova, died May 18, 1964
Charles Edwa rd Wickham, died June 2, 1964
Alber t Pike Lodge No. 484
Edwi n Maso n Holly , died J une 5, 1964
Chow chilla Lodge No. 485
Thom as Phine y Blanc hard , died April 12, 1964
Valle jo Lodg e No. 487
25, 1963
Willia m Harri son McDo nough , died Septe mber
1963
7,
mber
Nove
died
son,
Rober
J esse Fay
Patte rson Lodge No. 488
Willi am W. Cox, died Augu st 1, 1963
Fred Frank Ventu leth, died Septe mber 10, 1963
John Algat Lindq uist, died May 3, 1964
East Bay Lodg e No. 489
Rober t Valen tine Abart a, died June 8, 1964
Wood stock Lodge No. 491
Allan James Meut er, died June 27, 1964
Garva nza Lodge No. 492
1963
Edwa rd Otto Zache r Tolle y, died Decem ber 3,
Atasc adero Lodge No. 493
Orval Gould , died July 17, 1963
Acorn Lodg e No. 494
Roy Levin Burgk , died July 3, 1963
1963
Harol d Mcin tyre Nash, die d Augus t 16,30,
1963
Arthu r LeRo y Nelso n, died Decem ber
495
No.
e
Leban on Lodg
Aaron H. Wien er, died Nove mber 12, 1963
J ack Urbam , died Marc h 20, 1964
Frem ont Lodge No. 497
Clyde Joaqu im Kram er, died Septe mber 2, 1963
Roose velt Lodge No. 500 .
er 23, 1963
J e rry Jener oso Pastore, died Septe mb
Charl es Alfre d Ertol a, died May 20, 1964
Westw ood Lodge No. 501
Charl es Lee Brow n, died Octob er 7, 1963
Granv il!e Roy Bradf ord, died Janua ry 27, 1964
Harbo r Lodge No. 502
Carl Roach Alexa nder, died May 29. 1964
Moun t Olive Lodge No. 506
Thom as Henry Moor e, died August 23, 1963
Benja min Frank lin Lodg e No. 509
Robe rt W:lki ns, died Janua ry 4, 1964
Cupe rtino Lodge No. 510
Earls ton Leroy Madd ocks, died Septe mber 5, 1963
Argo nne Lodge No. 514
Henr y Norris Schin dler, died July 7, 1963
Lloyd Irving Tarle ton, died J anuar y 1, 1964
David Mann Taylo r, died February 16, 1964
Ionic Lodge No. 520
I rving A. Gale, died Septe mber 11, 1963
Herb ert Sappe r, died Marc h 22, 1964
Piedm ont Lodge No. 521
Jack Robin son, died Septe mber 17, 1963
Bellfl ower Lodge No. 523
Fred Edwa rd Monr oe, died Decem ber 3, 1963
Georg e Wash ington Lodge No. 525
Thom as Micha el May, died May 3, 1964

281

282

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

Bay City Lodge No. 526
Aaron Albert Le wis, <lied Septem ber 14, 1963
Seymo ur H. Green , died Nove m ber 23, 1963
Coven ant Lodge No. 527
Willia m Aloysu is McKen na, die d July 23, 1963
Baszel G eorge Evans, died May 23, 1964
Loyalt y Lodge No. 529
Samue l William Be rline r, died Augus t 30, 1963
Jose ph Alexan der Vis ger, died Janu ary 23, 1964
Sun Garde n Lodge No. 530
Milton Manle y Young , died Augus t 15, 1963
Glenn Hunte r Winte rs, died March 29, 1964
Alexan dria Lodge No. 531
Edwar d H. Wobbe r, died J u ly 25, 1963
Smyrn a Lodge No. 532
Sverre Marini us Christ iansen , died Februa ry 2, 1964
Azure Lodge No. 533
Ray Spenc er Davis, died Augus t 1, 1963
Thoma s F . Larsen , died Septem ber 12, 1963
Robert J. McKee , died April 1, 1964
Samue l Oscar McGau ghy, d ied April 15, 1964
Utopia Lodge No. 537
Cadle Austin Post, died Novem ber 13, 1963
Fred C . Crome r, died June 12, 1964
Belved ere Lodge No. 539
Frank Raymo nd F armen , died Augus t 28, 1963
Queen Beach Lodge No. 540
Paul Campb ell Henne l, d ied Decem ber 9, 1963
Leon Earl Conov er, died J anuary 29, 1964
North Hollyw ood Lodge No. 542
J ack Sharp McGre gor, died Nove mber 20, 1963
San Gabrie l Lodge No. 546
J erome Marx Miller, died June 3, 1964
Arcad ia Lodge No. 547
Arthu r Herbe rt Upham , died N ovemb er 1, 1963
Justice Lodge No. 549
Percy Vane Maury , died Augus t 5, 1963
Lakesh ore Lodge No. 551
Joseph Au~ustine Sulliva n, died Octobe r 18, 1963
Sempe r Virens Lodge No. 552
James Hende rson, died Nove mbe r 3, 1963
Educa tor Lodge No. 554
Delber t Owen Tanne r, died Dece mber 31, 1963
Arthur Freder ick Lewis, died J anuary 9, 1964
Marion Gardine r Hanson , died June 2, 1964
Hermo sa Lodge No. 557
Donald J erome Dutwi le r, d ied Novem ber 7, 1963
Herbe rt Bingha m Copela nd, Jr., died April 26, 1964
South Park Lodge No. 563
Chalme rs Edwin Lones , died Janua ry 13, 1964
H arold Elmer Green, died June 10, 1964
Foothi ll Lodge No. 564
Robert A rvid Larson , died Novem ber 18, 1963
James A. Garfiel d Lodge No. 566
Ralph Willia m Collins , died July 23, 1963
Warre n Earl Carey, died Augus t 20, 1963
Milita ry S ervice Lodge No. 570
O t to Ferdin and Ha nsen , died May 15, 1964
Franci s K. Shattu ck Lodge No. 571
J ohn Tilbur y, died July 26, 1963
Willia m George McClu sky, died F ebruar y 13, 1964
Fred Wallac e McCol lough, died March 8, 1964

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RN IA

James Madis on Lodge No. 572
Wes le y Oliver Elderk in, died F ebruar y 6, 1964
Floyd John McCla in , died April 8, 1964
Fort Crook Lodge No. 575
James William M u rray , died Augus t 10, 1963
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
Willia m Came ron, died Novem be r 18, 1963
Sunny side Lodge No. 577
James Edgar Martin , died Nove mber 28, 1963
Dona ld De pew, died Februa ry 11, 1964
Warre n G. Hardin g Lodge No. 579
Charle s L . Gilmor e, died Augus t 31, 1963
Henry R. Brown , Sr., died March 22, 1964
Santa Maria Lodge No. 580
Erwin Huber t S chlink , di ed Decem ber 31, 1963
Clifton Har gus Owen, died May 15, 1964
Percy Edwin Johnson , died J une 16, 1964
Securi ty Lodge No. 581
Freder ick Hartvi g Neerga ard, died March 14, 1964
Rialto Lodge No. 582
Willia m Fredri ck Reuss, d ied Ap ril 6, 1964
Howar d Ernest Hun t, died June 4, 1964
Hardin g Lodge No. 584
Rich ard Heron B eilby, died J une 27, 1964
Valley Ford Lodge No. 587
Oscar K. Robinson, died Novem ber 20, 1963
Kauai Lodge No. 589
Charle s Leama n Shann on, died April 8, 1964
Servic e Lodge No. 594
Franci s Ray Elsey, died J a nuary 28, 1964
Alexan de r Graha m Bell Lodge No. 595
Fred Otis Ste phenso n, died J uly 26, 1963
Horace Wrigh t Day, died Octobe r 1, 1963
Fred Schun k, died Januar y 9, 1964
Guard ian Lodge No. 596
Thoma s H. Shope, died Augus t 25, 1963
Carme lita Lodge No. 599
John Tyler Parker , J r., died July 30, 1963
Alle n Dodwo rth Pyle, died S eptem ber 2, 1963
Jay Don Rine hart, died J anuary 16, 1964
Lynwo od Lodge No. 600
Jarvis Edson Kraft, d ied Dece mber 20, 1963
Fred Richm ond Cook, d ied Jun e 10, 1964
Grizzly Lodge No. 601
L ouis Cleme nt De Armon d, died Ma y 9, 1964
Dimon d Lodge No. 603
James Arthu r Wilson , died Decem ber 3, 1963
Jubilee Lodge No. 604
Hugo J a y Lamb, died July 30, 1963
Glasse ll P a rk Lodge No. 605
Donald Arthur Muchmore, d ied J uly 31, 1963
John P atrick McLea n, died March 8, 1964
Frank Willia m J ohnson , died Jun e 10, 1964
Provid ent Lodge No. 609
Odia Ediler Howe, died A pril 11, 1964
Elmhu rst L odge No. 610
Sidney H erbert Brown , died Novem ber 26, 1963
Rober t Annon Wrigh t, died Novem ber 30, 1963
Canog a Lodge No. 611
Arthu r Levi Kaup, died Januar y 19, 1964

283

GRA ND LODGE OP CAL IFO

284

PRO CEE DIN GS OP THE

Lar chm ont Lod ge No. 614fin, died May 17, 1964
Ron ald Cla renc e Grif Jun e 7, 1964
Edw ard Fre d Jos t, died
Hem et Lod ge No. 615
1964
And rew Rot has, died Jun e 12,
Big Bea r Lod ge No. 617man, died July 23, 1963
Rob ert Art hur Rah
Nov emb er 6, 1963
Dan iel Wil liam Kin gsle y, died
618
Sou thla nd Lod ge No.nd
Fou rnie r, died Oct obe r 19, 1963
Tho mas Ferdina
620
Poin .t Lom a Lod ge No. d ied Apr il 28, 1964
Dav id Rob ert Cob b,
J une 9, 1964
Joh n Clif ford Ham pto n, died
624
No.
ge
Lod
de
titu
For
died Decemb er 26, 1963
Tho mas Edg ar H aro ld Lov e, Jun
e 11, 1964
Hec tor Alf red Leg ault , died
628
No.
Tru th Lod ge
tem ber 10, 1963
Edw in Hen ry Sch luer , died Sep
635
R iver side Lod ge No.
er 14, 1963
Roy Mac Lac hlan , died Nov emb
637
No.
ge
Lod
es
sad
Pali
31, 1964
Rob ert Bru ce Ske lly, died May
642
No.
ge
Lod
La Cum bre
e 6, 1964
Ben jam in Ran del Bar e, died Jun
643
Alt a Lom a Lod ge No.
emb er 2, 1963
Ern est Dav id Fra ncis , died Dec
645
No.
ge
Lod
in
Irw
E.
A. F.
Oct obe r 20, 1963
Har ry Ale xan der Han sen, died
648
No.
ge
Dam ascu s Lod
28, 1964
Nei l Mar ion Ous ley, died May
Flo renc e Lod ge No. 649 died Oct obe r 5, 1963
Lee She ldon Pra tt,
Nov emb er 9, 1963
Art hur Elm ore Cla wit ter, died
652
Cre scen ta Val ley Lod ge No. died Dec emb er 3. 1963
Hen ry McG rath Wel ch,
ary 16, 1964
Alton Ree se Tyd ings , died J anu
655
No.
ge
Mo nte Vis ta Lod
Aug ust 5, 1963
Lester Cha rles Wil liam s, died
662
Hen ry Kno x Lod ge No.
Dec emb er 4, 1963
Ray mon d Houston Cob b, died
671
No.
ge
Lod
nte
me
San Cle
e 7, 1964
Wil liam Edw in Mar tin, died Jun
675
No.
Mo des to Lod ge
12, 1964
Jess e B. Cov er, died Feb rua ry
Tro na Lod ge No. 684 kso n, died Sep tem ber 22, 1963
Gus ta! A. Hen dric
San Mar ino Lod ge No. 685d, died Apr il 23, 1964
Lou is Alb ert Cop elan
May 26, 1964
Geo rge Rei nho ld F ried eric h, died
686
No.
Alb any Lod ge
1, 1964
Joh n Gib son Pih l, died Apr il
Oild ale Lod ge No. 688
Oct obe r 1, 1963
Hen ry Gla dsto ne Dob ie, died
e 23, 1964
Ber nar d J ohn Mil ler, died Jun
690
No.
ge
Lod
San Car los
il 13, 1964
Viv ian Alb ert Mo rley , died Apr
694
No.
ge
San Ant onio Lod
Aug ust 13, 1963
Fre d San bor n Ken ned y, died
Cro ssro ads Lod ge No. 696 d Coy ne, died July 21, 1963
Edw ard J oseph Ber nar

RNI A

285

Ori nda Lod ge No. 71U
Feb rua ry 6, 1964
Clif ford Fra ncis Cam pbe ll, diedMar ch 29, 1964
died
l,
ege
Flo
ard
Ric har d Edw
Lor en:s o Lod ge No. 709
24, 1963
Roy J esse Abb ett, died Aug ust
716
No.
ge
Lod
re
Sho
t
mon
Bel
Aug ust 17, 1963
Fra ncis Hud son Gen try, died
died Ma y 27, 1964
Jam es Dav idson Her dma n, 718
San Lor en:s o Val ley Lod ge No.April 19, 1964
Jac k Hen ry Dig gins , died
Oas is of Ma ra Lod ge No. 735
Apr il 18, 1964
Par ker Edw ard Ha.r ring ton, died
Lem on Gro ve Lod ge No. 736
obe r 4, 1963
LeR oy Han s Nie nab er, died Oct
739
No.
ge
Lod
La Can ada
23, 1963
Ral ph Wil liam Col lins , died July
746
Soq uel Lod ge No.
e 8, 1964
Jam es Bro wn Scofield, died Jun
San Pab lo Lod ge No. 754
emb er 29, 1963
R obe rt Ben edic t, Jr., died Dec
758
No.
ge
Lod
ina
We st Cov
Apr il 12, 1964
And erso n Pey ton Phi pps , died
768
Zen ith Lod ge No.
28, 1963
Wil bur J ohn Sco tt, died Aug ust
772
No.
e
g
.
Lod
nal
Ave
rua ry 20, 1964
Mar ion Eve rett Joh ns, died Feb
774
No.
ge
Wa ikik i Lod
IO, 1964
Rob ert Wis e Qui nn, died Apr il
780
Riv iera Lod ge No.
Dec emb er 12, 1963
Cha rles Ma rtin McA nall y, died
Rol ling Hill a Lod ge No. 781 Feb rua ry 14, 1964
Fra nk Tho mps on, died
Mt. Wil son Lod ge No. 794
er 2, 1963
J ohn Pop e Wa lker , died Dec emb
797
No.
Tila Pas s Lod ge
Mar ch 9, 1964
Ale x Lum bre ras Noc on, died
Con ejo Val ley Lod ge No. 807Ma y 17, 1964
H aro ld Lee Ret an, died

At l l :i5 a.m. taps sou nde d. Gra
a.m. Thu rsd ay.

nd Lodge was called off unt il 9

:30

GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

286

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

FIDE LITY COVERAGE

IN GRA ND LOD GE
MOR NING SESS ION- THU RSO AY:

-ocT OB.E R 15, 1964

on, the Gran d Mas ter pre-·
At 9 :30 a.m. Gran d Lodg e was calle d
·
by the Gran d Chap lain. The
sidin g. The invo catio n was deliv ered
ay, Octo ber 14, were read
nesd
minu tes of the morn ing sessi on of Wed
and appr oved .

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON INS URA

NCE

& AM . of California:
To the Most Wor ship ful Gran d Lodg e F.
an ins uran ce comm ittee by
In July . 1956, we were appo inted as
Stew art. Jr. for reaso ns
V.
ar
Edg
Mos t Wor ship ful Gran d Mas ter
sory grou p, men not inter ested
quot e "I felt that we shou ld have an advi
it from the man agem ent or
in the sale of insu ranc e but conv ersan t with
sors to the Gran d Secr etary
purc hase r's view poin t who coul d act as advi
Gran d Lodg e, the Hom es.
of
as rega rds the over~all insu ranc e prog ram
and the Mem orial Tem ple.' '
ating insu ranc e risks in
Brot her Eber t has spen t man y year s evalu
the outs tand ing insu rof
one
the unde rwri ting end of the insu ranc e with
s spen t 39 year s in
ha
ile
Carl
her
Brot
.
ance comp anies in the busin ess
corp ora tions with mult iple
the purc hasin g side of the busi ness for large
altho ugh it may seem that we
locat ions. We are not sellin g insu ranc e
in blan ket policies. Our posiare whe n we sugg es t cove rage unde r certa
ion are the best plan s avail tion is take n only beca use these in our opin
no othe r blan ket plan s
been
have
able for our cons idera tion. Ther e
ittee is view ing the Gran d
brou ght befo re us . Cons eque ntly, your comm
e prog rams stric tly from the
Lodg e and its cons titue nt lodg es' insu ranc
stan dpoi nt of
the lodg es and their mem~
(a) The broa dest poss ible cove rage for
hers.
( b) Low est poss ible cost.
after all is a hidd en cost
( c) Leas t amo unt of pape rwor k (whi ch
to each mem ber) .
be acco mpli shed throu gh
Thes e resu lts in our expe rienc es can only
blan ket insu ranc e.
ress in this prog ram and
We are plea sed to repo rt subs tanti al prog
r
lowe prem iums . with broa der
thos e lodg es parti cipa ting are enjo ying
prote ction .
prog ram for your cons idera We wou ld like to cite some facts in this
tion.
WOR KME N'S COM PENS ATIO N INSU

287

RAN CE

blan ket prote ction with the
All lodg es and Gran d Lodg e are unde r
lodg es.
the
to
a
cost abso rbed in the annu al per capit

blan ket prote ction with the
All lodg es and Gran d Lodg e are unde r
lodg es.
the
to
a
cost abso rbed in the annu al per capit
PUBL IC LIAB ILITY IN SURA NCE

d-29 are insur ing unde r
Six hund red and eigh ty-o ne lodg es blankete
not reac hed these few lodg es
indiv idua l policies. We are afrai d we have
be inclu ded unde r the blan ket
with our conc ern over their reluc tanc e to
policy.
of actio n is the feeling that
We think the majo r reaso n for th eir lack
indiv idua l policies by use
their
r
they have just as broa d prote ction unde
of a spec ial endo rsem ent.
with th is thinking beca use
Assu ming we are corre ct, we disag ree
y bein g broa dene d as more
unde r a blan ket polic y the form is cons tantl
lar concessio ns cann ot be mad e
lodg es beco me cove red there unde r. Simi
wher e the com pany cove rs only one risk.
unde r the blan ket polic y is
Ano ther impo rtant reaso n for comi ng
the even t you are faced with
the adde d s uppo rt of some 700 lodg es in
g to be more impr essed with
a toug h suit. Obv ious ly a comp a ny is goin
the grea ter spre ad.
ion of your committee is
A parti cula rly impo rta nt poin t in the opin
abov e the savin g now
and
over
%
25
the adde d savin gs of appr oxim ately
r the bbnk et if the 29 hold -ou t
enjo yed by the 681 lodg es pres ently unde
unde r.
lodg es wou ld cons ent to cove rage there
atten tion of any Mas ter of
Fran kly spea king , we wou ld call to the
re ever y mem ber inclu ding himany lodg e that insu rance is a n are:i whe
ction avail able comm ensu ra te
self shou ld seek the very broa cest prote
migh t occu r cann ot be tra ced
h
whic
with cost so that a ny unin sure d loss
of all mem bers of his lodg e.
back to a decision not in the best inter est
first repo rt date d Aug ust
We reco mme nded blan ket prote ction in our
13. 1956.
MED ICAL PAYM ENT C OVER AGE

e cove rs the officers of the
The Wor kme n's Com pens ation insu ranc
volu ntee r to help out here a nd
lodg e but does not appl y to mem bers who
mino r repa irs. To cover thes e
there main taini ng the lodg es and mak ing
insur ance wou ld resul t in an
mem bers unde r Wor kme n's Com pens ation
exorbitan tly high prem ium.
is a mora l oblig ation to all
T.he bette r solut ion to this risk whic h
now avai lable unde r the Public
lod ges is the Med ical Paym ent Cov erag e
$1,0 00 per pers on at a cost of
Liab ility Blan ket polic y in the amo unt of
nine ty-se ven lodg es are now
appr oxim ately $.05 annu ally. Five hund red
r the blan ket polic y. S ince the
enjo ying this low cost prote ction unde

288

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

cost is so reason able, we recom mend that an even higher
age be made availa ble.
PARAP Hli:RNA LIA -

limit of cover-

MULT I PERIL

this coverThere is no great financial exposu re in most cases where
at risk.
$1.000
to
age is involved. The averag e lodge will have $800
policy is
But the amoun t of premiu m presen tly paid per individ ual
$25 and
made
is
greatl y out of line. In most cases a minimum charge
this is not on an all risk basis.
s could be
Using a blanke t policy approa ch the minimum charge
amoun t of
ll
over-a
elimin ated and the premiu ms predic ated on the total
over-a ll
with
lodge
per
ge
covera ge. This is estima ted at $1,000 covera
per
(le)
$.01
or
years
three
for
premiu ms of approx imatel y $7,100
with
nce
insura
risk"
"all
led
so-cal
be
would
memb er per year and this
ges, bura $25 deduc tible for losses other than fire. the extend ed covera
glary, theft, quake , or flood.
We recommend the blanke t covera ge.
MONIE S AND SECUR ITIES -

BROAD FORM (INSID E AND MESSE NGERS )

ge is $50.
The annua l minimum per locatio n for this type of covera
nce.
We are inform ed that some lodges are carryi ng this insura
far more
A quotat ion for blanke t covera ge has been obtain ed at costs
favora ble.
Limit of Cover age

000
Grand Lodge ----·----···-··-···-------····-····--·-·········-·-···--·········-$5,
5,000
..
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
to)
Union City (Deca
············--·· 5 ,000
Covin a ····-··········--··· ·························--·············..........
........ I ,000
All Lodge s (each) ........................................
. (This
Annua l cost per lodge, $1.43, or Yic ($.005) per capita
s.)
includ es cost of Grand Lodge and Home
our recent
Before comm enting on the temple buildin g insura nce
planne d
and
ved
concei
well
a
tes
indica
s
policie
review of Grand Lodge
m an
progra
this
insura nce progra m. When and if all lodges accept
billing
all
g
placin
by
ated
enorm ous amoun t of paperw ork can be elimin
and renew on a per capita basis which will take care of most premiums
of each
aries
Secret
and
rs
Maste
the
by
als. This should be welco med
lodge to shed the responsibilities.
TEMP
FIRE, EXTEN DED COVER AGE AND VANDA LISM,

(a ) A total of $3,034 ,423 additio nal insura nce.
(b) Plus- An a nnual saving in premiu m of $7.789.93.
age.
( c) Plus- 49 also now have Repla cemen t Cost New Cover
age.
( d) Plus- 50 also now have V a ndalism Cover
These figures speak for themselves.
ble consid It is recom mende d tha t a ll Temp le Buildi ngs give favora
costs.
lower
and
ges
covera
r
broade
of
m
eration to the special progra
A P PRAISA LS OF TEMP LE BUILDINGS

that insurThis is usuall y a troubl esome problem knowi ng for sure
insura nce
for
m
premiu
ing
spend
re
a
you
if
or
able values are adequ ate
they
source
any
from
sals
apprai
free
on
d
depen
Some
.
you canno t collect
can be obtain ed. Others are estima tes with no real basis.
y w ith
These metho ds could result in penalt ies due to failure to compl
.
s
ement
co-ins urance requir
sal comArran gemen ts have been made with one of the large apprai
a cost
at
it
g
desirin
ations
associ
temple
those
for
panies to set values
survey when
far below the usual rate provid ing they may make their
le, a temple
examp
they are in or near the area on other apprai sals. For
ortation
transp
plus
$350
be
valued at $100,000, the regula r fee would
and out-of -town living cost.
would
The cost under the special progra m for the temple associ ation
added
costs
-town
out-of
and
be $165 plus trapsp ortatio n ( 1Oc per mile)
( $12.50 each over night) .
greate r.
For higher valued buildin gs, the saving s percen tage is even
adjust ed
This would be a value you could depen d on and could be
annua lly for many years up or down accord ing to costs.
in preced We have gone to greate r length in this report than those
suggested
we
ing •y ears with the excep tion of the report in 1956 in which
getting
by
costs
and
the lodges could impro ve their insura nce covera ge
tion.
protec
t
togeth er and taking advan tage of blanke
fo r even W e are glad to see their respon se to the progra m and hope
tual l 00 % partic ipation .
Respectfully submi tted,
T. J AM ES CARLI LE

LE BUILDI NGS

availe d
Since April, 1963, eighty -four ( 84) Temp le Buildings have
folthe
ed
receiv
These
ble.
availa
ge
themselves of the blanke~ covera
lowing advan tages :

289

ALLER TON B . EBE RT

Referr ed to Comm ittee on Financ e.

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON JURISPRUDENCE '

is held or assem bled in any building or temple which is owned. or operated by a Lodge or an organization , which requires as a pre-requisite
to membership therein. that a person must be a Master Mason, when
intoxica ting liquor is sold, served, given away or dispensed, or permitted to be sold, served, given away or dispensed in such building or
temple, or in which a n intoxicating liq uor bar exists.
The Grand Master's consideratio n and research of all of our law
on the liquor question has been such as only a distinguishe d and experienced judge could render and he reached a full decision which is
long overdue.
We move approval and adoption of his decision and urge a yes
vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

( Items reported on at different times during the Communica tion are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
D1sPENs/\ TIONS
Your Committee on Jurispruden ce has reviewed rhe special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the past year and his
approval of changes of by-laws and resolutions relative to life
membership s.
We feel that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirement s of our law. We
recommend that special dispensation s and life membership resolutions
and changes of by-laws above referred to be approved.
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN R. MooRE
Lours C. DRAPEAU
LEo E. ANDERSON
HENRY C. CLAUSEN
JoE L. SHELL
WAKEFIELD T AYLOR
Roy J. H r:NVI LLE
EWART L. MERICA
SAMUEL SHENK
Adopted .
DECISIONS
RESOLVE D: That Decisions numbered I to 22 inclusive , except
Nos. 1, 7, I I and 13 be approved, provided however that they not be
recorded in CMC. for the reason that they represent single instances or
the s ubject is already covered by our law.
Decisions Nos. 2. 5, 17 and 22 . included above, were also referred
to Committee on Policy and General Purposes. which Committee concurs
in this report.
Decision No. 2 I, included above, was also referred to the Committee
on Ritual. which Committee indicated its concurrence in the report.
We move adoption and urge a yes vote.
Adopted.
RESOLVE D: That Decisions numbered I and 13 be approved.
Decision No. 13 was also referred to the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, which Committee concurs in this report.
We move adoption and urge a yes vote.
Adopted.
DEc1s10N No. 7
The following rePised wording was completed by the Grand Ma ster
and referred to the Committee on Jurispruden ce prior to its consideratio n
by Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master held: A Mason shall not. under any circumstances. attend or be present at any regular or special meeting or social
gathering of a Masonic group. or organization . Lodge or Body. \•:hich

291

D Ec1s10N No. 11
The Grand Master held: A Masonic Temple Association, Corporation, Lodge or group of Masons sha ll not, under any conditions or
circumstanc es, permit or allow, either by lease or otherwise, any person ,
;:issociation, group, Lodge, society or organization to use any part or
portion of a Masonic Temple for the purpose of dispensing , consuming ,
selling or giving away intoxicating liquor therein or thereon or for
holding any meeting or gathering therein where intoxicating liquor is
to be consumed. served. dispensed, given away or maintained therein
or thereon.
This decision is based upon a complete research of our law and
covers a point of fi,rst instance.
We move approval and adoption of the decision and urge a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
DEc1s10N No. 23
RESOLVE D: That Decision No. 23 be approved.
We move adoption and urge a yes vote.
The Committee on Ritual indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the decision.
FUNCTIONAL AMENDMENTS C.M.C.
(32)

This resolution seeks amendment of Sections 447 and 573 C.M.C
relati ng to methods of dimiting to clarify procedure and should be
adopted.
We move adoption of the resolution as presented and urge a yes
vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFO RN IA

293

PROCE ?.DING S OP THE
R AT PROPO SED
COMM ITTEE TO INVEST IGATE MASO N IC CENTE
BEACH
NG
CALIFORNIA WORLD'S FAIR 1967- 68-Lo

292
FORM OP APPLIC ATION

.
1963 RESOL UTION ( 18)
6
t d last year but failed to receiv e a 5/es
.
783 C.M .C. requir.
S t'
.e
This ·r esolut ion wasa pre~en
maion ty vote. ec ion
·v
d ·d
a 2/3 vote is necess ary under Sectio n
vote. It I rece~ e Th'
is year.
furthe r consid eration .
.
C to carry the resolu tion.
separa tion, so
783 C . M . . . . o £ t he U nt't ed States comm ands this
Our Const itution
d t' n of this resolu tion as it is alread y
the questi on is a valid one.
It is unnece ssary to move a op io
cl
d
.
b f re the Grand Lodgethe
resolu tion was not a opte .
e oF a1·1·mg a 2/3 vote •

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON POLI CY AND
. .
GEN ERAL PURP OSES

ion are
(Items reported on at different times during the Communicat
rnia:
consolidated to f acili~afte lreGfere ndceL.od)ge F · & A. M. of Califo
ran
u
ip
Worsh
l
T he M ost COMM ITTEE ON CoNST ITUTIO N 0BsER VAN.c E cl G
o t

enera
mittee on Policy an
he
which
in
ge
Messa
r's
There has been _refe~rt th~o b~~~d Maste
made
be
vance
Obser
itution
Const
'tt e on
Purpo ses that portio n
take action at this Comrecom mends that :he Co":i~~ ~ Grand Lodge
.
a
Standi ng Comm ittee an
. 1 ent the recom menda tion.
a
d Gener al Purpo ses concu rs in the
P l'
munic ation to imp em
Maste r to the Comm ittee on Const iYour C~mm~ttee on th:
the past
commendat1on g1venf by th splend id accom plishm ents during
e
tution Obser vance or
howev er to the Repor t of the Specia l
t'
Grand Lodge Year.
and •the recom menda tion therein
We would call yo~r atte~ ion~
aster to review
Comm ittee ?n. Comm1tte:int:~u~ u;~e incom ing Grand M
Annua l Comnext
that a comm1ss10~ be sa?cific reco~mendations to the
Lodge .
Grand
of
its r~po~t a~d brmg d ~o the whole comm ittee structu re
not be
should
tion
menda
recom
on this
f
municat1on m regar h
comthe
to
d
referre
be
should
it
that
d
ion
a~
~t
t
It is our belief
l
Annua
next
the
to
taken at this Communtbcatto~ an t dy and report
d
u
s
or
ove
a
to
mission referred
men . the Grand Maste r be re f erre d
nd we so recom
. t'
of
d f
Commuruca ion, a
the Annua l
We move ~h~t this recco::~t~e: ~t~ucture for report at
to the Comm1ss1on on o
Respe ctfully submi tted.
Comm unicat ion in 1965.
C

d

G:a:;

LESLIE E. WooD

ELLSW ORTH MEYE R
IRA W . COBUR N
R1cHA RD H. CHAM BERLA IN
ARTHU R ALEXA NDER

Adopt ed.

Guv B. M1zE

w.

DAVIS
ELBER T
DoN K BALDW IN
RoBER ; B. WATT S

(23)

Policy and
Resolu tion No. 23 has been referre d to the Comm ittee on
Gener al Purpo ses.
ted by the
This resolu tion propo ses that a comm ittee be appoin
s of locamatter
all
igate
invest
ghly
thorou
"
incom ing Grand Maste r to
World 's
rnia
Califo
the
at
g
buildin
rary
tempo
a
tion, cost and design of
Annua l ComFair, 1967-6 8, and report their finding s at the next
munic ation."
, Wash Mason ic quarte rs were provid ed at the Expos ition in Seattle
in New
Fair
's
ington , and a buildi ng has been erecte d at the World
York. contai ning exhibi ts from all parts of the world.
prope r way
Your Comm ittee is of the opinio n that this would be a
an image
create
of bringi ng Mason ry to the genera l public and would
genera l.
in
craft
the
of
of the fratern ity that would redoun d to the credit
vote.
yes
a
mend
recom
and
We theref ore move the resolu tion
Adopt ed.
W REPOR T OF COMM ISSION
PROVI DE FOR SPECIA L COMM ITTEE TO REVIE
PRIAT E LEGISL ATION TO
APPRO
ST
SUGGE
AND
ICES
ON MASON IC PRACT
IMPLE MENT RECOM MENDA TIONS

(27)
Resolu tion
The Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses to which
No. 27 has been referre d report s herew ith:
appoin ted
This resolu tion propo ses in effect that a new comm ittee be
disclo sed
on"
situati
the
t
correc
to
vor
"to prepar e legisla tion to endea
ces.
Practi
ic
Mason
on
ission
Comm
l
Specia
the
of
t
by the 1963 Repor
al.
There appea r to be two basic defect s in the propos
by the
The first lies in the assum ption that the proble ms found
all or
in
ter
charac
m
unifor
Specia l Comm ission to exist are of such
would
tion
legisla
by
action
ial
most of the Lodge s that the same remed
l Comm ission 's
be practic al. This assum ption is negate d by the Specia
Repor t.
its violation
The second defect in the propos al would appea r to lie in
the Specia l
g
creatin
in
of the basic princip le stated by P.G.M . Cobur n
study and
l
factua
its
in
ission
Comm ission and follow ed by the Comm
ies were
remed
le
possib
tive
alterna
and
Repor t, that once the proble ms
ies,
remed
those
apply
and
select
to
left
be
should
defined the Lodge s
ach
appro
if any, which appea red useful in each partic ular case. This
tion restricting
coinci des with the saluta ry genera l princip le that legisla
gly adopte d,
sparin
be
should
s
the norma l power s and activit ies of Lodge
sh the
dimini
to
tend
tions
restric
since non-es sentia l manda tes and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

294

PROCEED INGS OP THE

vitality of Lodges, to discour age their initiativ e a nd to ignore their special
knowle dge of the local conditio ns under which they work.
We move the adoptio n of the resoluti on but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.
PROVIDE "COMM ITTEE ON PU BLIC INFORM ATION"

(28)
Your Commit tee on Policy and General Purpose s has had referr~d
to it Resolut ion No. 28. which propose s that the Grand Master appoint
,
a "Comm ittee on Public Informa tion." This commit tee would receive
through
acting
nd.
a
tion
informa
sonic
Ma
various
evaluat e and edit
district commit tees, see to the distribu tion of such articles for appeara nce
.
. .
in regular newspa per column s.
This resoluti on does not clarify who is to give out this informa tion
nor does it recogni ze the possibil ity that someon e might give his ?w.n
s
views on Masonr y. which would not necessa rily refiect our Fratern ity
rs
propose
the
what
lish
accomp
not
would
ently
consequ
position , and
of this resoluti on have in mind.
May we also call your attentio n to the existing Grand Lodge Committee on Masoni c Informa tion which is respons ible for educatm g the
le
general public through program s designe d to establis h a favorab
.
. .
.
public image.
Creatin g another such commit tee would in the opinion of this committee only lead to confusi on and overlap ping duties.
We move adoptio n of the resoluti on but recomm end a no vote.
The Commit tee on Ritual indicate d its concurr ence in the recommendati on.
A majority voted against the resoluti on.
At 12:00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1:15 p.m.

295

AFTE RNOO N SESSI ON-Th ursday , Octobe r 15, 1964

At I: 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on , the Grand Master presiding. The invocati on was delivere d by the Grand Chaplai n.

COMB INED COMM ITTEE REPOR TS

(Items reported on at differen t times during the Commu nication are
consolid ated to facilitate reference.}
"CALIFO RNIA FREEMA SON"

The Commit tee on Policy and General Purpos es :
Referra l has been made to the Commit tee on Policy and General
Purpose s of that portion of the Grand Master' s Messag e in which he
recomm ends that the Grand Lodge establis h a policy of send ing the
California Freemason , at Grand Lodge expense , to every member.
The Grnnd Master has said that "it is his firm belief that by placing
in the hands of every Master Mason in the Californ ia Grand Lodge
would be doing a great service to Masonr y and would do much toward
inspirin g and encoura ging every Master Mason to work harder and
more earnestly for the good of our great Fratern ity."
The Commit tee approve d last year a similar recomm endatio n and
it sees no reason to change that opinion .
We move the approva l of the recomm endatio n and your Commit tee
recomm ends a yes vote.
The Commit tee on Finan ce:
There has been referred to this Commit tee the recomm endatio n of
the Grand Master that our official magazin e, California Freemason. be
mailed to all Masons of this jurisdic tion who are regular member s of our
Lodges , with the cost to be borne by Grand Lodge.
This matter was before Grand Lodge last year on the recomm enda tion of the Grand Master and. in the form of resoluti ons, on a number
in
of occasio ns in the past. Grand Lodge has defeate d the proposa l
case.
every
Your decision rests on one simple but importa nt point: Do you. as
the represen tatives of your Lodges, wish to spend the money to put the
proposa l into operatio n? We estimate that your per capita will have to be
increase d a minimum of 25 cents to do so. An addition al s um will have
to be spent by Grand Lodge to prepare address ograph plates for all
the members.
The decision rests in your hands.
Adopte d.
SPECIAL COMMIT TEE ON COMMIT TEE STRUCT URE

The Commit tee on Policy and Genera l Purposes:
The report of the Special Commit tee on Commi ttee Structu re has
been re ferred to your Commi ttee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s.

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

of
It is obviou s from the reading of this report that many hours
result
the
with
ation,
compil
its
time, and much mental effort went into
that a very compre hensive report has been presen ted to Grand Lodge.
that
Many recomm endatio ns are noted in the report, but we feel
comspecial
a
that
t
reques
the
is
ittee
Comm
this
the main issue before
formumittee be appoin ted by the incoming Grand Master to study and
late a plan which would accomp lish its objectives.
the
We do not feel that it is necess ary to attemp t to review all of
by
done
be
will
that
as
report,
propos als and recomm endatio ns in this
Lodge.
Grand
by
ed
approv
is
report
a special committee if the
l
It seems sufficient to say that the Comm ittee on Policy and Genera
on
ittee
Comm
l
Purpos es is in agreem ent with the report of the Specia
re move
Comm ittee Structu re, and recomm ends its adoptio n. We therefo
adoptio n of the report, and recomm end a yes vote.
The Commi ttee on Corres ponden ce:
was
The report of t~ Specia l Comm ittee on Comm ittee Structu re
that
l,
referre d to this Comm ittee in regard to their Recom menda tion
Comthe
to
d
change
the name of the Comm ittee on Corres ponden ce be
mittee on the Califor nia Freema son.
the
It is true that a great deal of the activity of the Comm ittee is
review
of
n
functio
the
s
perform
still
it
but
ne.
publica tion of the magazi
ing Foreig n Procee dings.
e
We have not had time to give this matter consid eration but possibl
nia
Califor
the
and
ce
sugges tions would be: Comm ittee on Corres ponden
Corres Freema son, or Comm ittee on the Califor nia Freema son and
of
Review
and
ason
Freem
nia
Califor
the
ponden ce. or Comm ittee on
Foreig n Procee dings.
the
Actual ly. the Review of Foreig n Procee dings is helpful in editing
is
l
materia
other
magazi ne, not only are short reviews printed , but
frequen tly used as a basis of an article.
and
Corres ponden ce Comm ittees are common to most Grand Lodges
part
a
least
at
be
should
n
functio
this
ing
we feel that the name indicat
of the Comm ittee's title.
and
Appare ntly, it is not intende d to take action until next year
that
by
will.
es
Purpos
perhap s the Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l
time, be able to sugges t a suitabl e title.
The Comm ittees on Jurispr udence . on Financ e, and the Code Comof the
mission indicat ed their concur rence in the recomm endatio n
es.
Purpos
l
Genera
and
Comm ittee on Policy
Adopte d.
INCLUD E MAILIN G OF GRAND MASTE R'S DECISI ONS

( 1)
l Purposes:
Genera
and
Policy
on
ittee
Comm
The
been
Your Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es, to which has
·
:
follows
referre d Resolu tion No. 1, reports as

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

297

The resolution calls for an amend ment to Section 150-J 9th-D uties
to transof_Grand Secret ary-wh ich would require the Grand Secreta ry
Jurison
ittees
Comm
the
of
rs
membe
and
mit to each Lodge. Inspec tors
prior
days
sixty
e,
Financ
and
es,
Purpos
l
pruden ce, Policy and Genera
"copy
a
on
unicati
Comm
l
Annua
next
the
of
date
t
to the com.~encemen
comof the dec1s1ons of the Grand Master made 90 days prior to the
."
mencement date of the Annua l Comm unicati on
Section 140 C.M.C . states the duties of the Grand Master in regard
unito his Annua l Messa ge which are to presen t, at each Annua l Comm
during
acts
official
his
all
cation a written messag e . therein setting forth
juristhe year, exhibit ing the genera l condition of Mason ry within the
ary
necess
deem
may
he
as
ion
legislat
such
ending
diction, and recomm
craft.
the
of
welfare
the
or expedi ent for
the
The propos ed amend ment to Section 150-l 9th, which relates to
Grand
the
compel
d,
adopte
if
not,
would
ry,
Secreta
duties of the Grand
l ComMaster to disclose his decisio ns to anyone prior to the Annua
r, do
howeve
may.
He
munica tion nor should he be require d to do so.
so on a volunt ary basis if he so desires .
his
We feel that ample time is availab le betwee n the presen ting of
suband
on
unicati
decisio ns by the Grand Master at the Annua l Comm
action
sequen t reports thereon by commi ttees, for study and approp riate
by the members of Grand Lodge.
a
We. therefo re. presen t the resolut ion for action and recommend
no vote.
The Comm ittee on Jurisprudence:
and
This resolut ion relates to the duties of the Grand Secreta ry
:
purpor ts to amend Section I S0-19t h which now reads as follows
the
"To transm it , at least 60 days prior to the comme ncemen t date of
ion
resolut
every
next Annua l Comm unicati on , a copy of each and
s of
and recomm endation lawfull y presen ted to him, to the Master
of
ittees
Comm
the
of
rs
Membe
the severa l Lodges , Inspec tors and
e."
Financ
and
es
Purpos
l
Genera
and
Jurispr udence , Policy
ng
This resolut ion would insert in this subsec tion the followi
words:
days
"and also a copy of the decisio ns of the Grand Master made 90
on."
unicati
Comm
l
Annua
the
prior to the comme ncemen t date of
ns
Our law does not require the Grand Master to disclos e his decisio
d
require
be
he
should
nor
on,
unicati
Comm
l
Annua
the
to anyone prior to
so to do.
ns
This year the Grand Master volunta rily s ent copies of his decisio
nce
assista
great
of
been
has
this
and
,
udence
Jurispr
to the Comm ittee on
to us in studyin g them and prepar ing for our reports .
We do not. however. believe it proper to require the Grand Master
to do so.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We move the adoptio n of the _resolution- but recomm end a no vote.
The Commi ttee on Finance indicate d its concurr ence in the
recomm endatio n.
A majorit y voted against the resolution.

PuBuc ScHOOLs WEEK CoMMITTEE-DEFINITION OF RESPONSIBILITY
(4)
The Commit tee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to the Commi ttee on Policy and Genera l
Purpose s Resolut ion No. 4, entitled "Public Schools Week Commit tee
-Defin ition of Respon sibility, " which seeks to amend Section 331
C.M.C. by adding a paragra ph thereto, to read: "That each constitu ent
Lodge of this jurisdiction appoint a 'Commi ttee on Public Schools ' to
actively work with the Boards of Educati on, (one or more members to
attend meeting s of the School Boards} , faculty and/or other official
organiz ations of the Public Schools. That this committee report to each
Stated Meeting of their respecti ve Lodges, and that each Lodge make
a quarter ly report to Grand Lodge. That there be a report of these
committees publish ed for each communication of Grand Lodge."
The Grand Lodge of Californ ia, its constitu ent Lodges, and Masons ,
as individu als, have been known -and known favorab ly-for many
years as support ers of a strong public school system. Our support has
redound ed favorab ly for the cause of the Public Schools and those who
are engage d in the educati ng of our children, the teachers , adminis trators, members of Boards of Educati on. Our support to date, in the direction it has taken, has likewise redound ed favorab ly to our Fratern ity.
It is the opinion of this Commi ttee that aside from the conside rable
amount of time and effort which would have to be expende d by individual members, Lodge secretar ies and the Grand Secreta ry's ·staff, to
implement the physical aspects of this amendm ent, the value of the
reports to be made and compiled into an annual report for each communicat ion of Grand Lodge might well be negligible by reason of wide
diversities at every step in the total suggest ed procedu re.
Of greater concern to th~s Commi ttee is our belief that attempt ing to
place watcher s by the dozens, even hundred s in the larger metropo litan
areas, at the various types of meeting s propose d in this resolution, would
bring down charges of politics on our heads and the good wrough t by
our efforts over the years in support of free public schools could well be
destroy ed in short order. Masons , as individu al citizens of the community, should be interest ed in support ing the objectives implied in this
resolution. This Is a position long advocat ed by this Grand Lodge.
Howeve r, we cannot recomm end that the activities propose d be made
a part of our Grand Lodge program of support of public schools.
We present the resoluti on for action but strongly urge a no vote.
The Commit tee on Public Schools:
The Commi ttee on Public Schools agrees that Masonr y's support
of the principle of free public educatio n is a 52 week job every year
rather than a one week celebration.
This Commi ttee agrees that the program of the Grand Lodge Committee on Public Schools must constan tly be strength ened: that new

298

ELIMINATE HOMES CONTRIBUTION BY AFFILIATES
(2)
The Commit tee on Policy and General Purposes:
your Commi ttee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s has carefull y
conside red Resolut ion No. 2 which propose s to delete that part of Se~­
tion 284 C.M.C. requirin g paymen t of the contributio~ t~ t~e .Masonic
Homes of Californ ia by sojourn ing brethre n from other 1urisd1ctions who
apply for affiliation with a Lodge in this jurisdiction.
.
Each petition er to form a new L?dg~ and eac~ applica~t for the
deg·rees is required to make this contribu tion and this. Res~l~tion would
create a distinct ion among brethre n by grantin g a special privilege to one
group which would not be extende d to others.
The Masoni c Homes of Californ ia are support ed by all of our members as our greates t charity and it is the opini~n of ~our Commi ttee that
no sojourn ing brother should hesitate to affiliate with us because they
were required to make this contribu tion.
These contribu tions are not placed in the Endowm ent Fund, but are
used for the operatio n of the Homes and the thousan.ds of dol~ars which
would be lost to the Homes by the adoptio n of this resoluti on would
have to be recover ed by an increase in "the per capita tax on all Lodges.
We move the resoluti on and recomm end a no vote.
The Commit tee on furisprucknce:
.
.
The Resolut ion relating to contribu tions to the Masom c Homes is:
RESOL VED: That Sec. 284 CMC be amende d to read.as ~ollo"'.'s:
Each applica nt for the degrees shall accomp any his applicat ion with
a contribu tion of $25.00 for the use and benefit of the Masoni c Homes
of Californ ia.
The effect of this change would be to exempt all affiliates from payment of the $25.00. This is unrealis tic and unfair to applica nts for the
degrees .
This same resoluti on was present ed by the same Brother last year
and soundly defeate d.
We move adoptio n of the resoluti on but urge a no vote to defeat
it again.
The Commi ttee on Finance and the Board of Trustee s of the Masonic Homes indicate d their concurr ence in the recomm endatio n.
A majority voted against the resoluti on.

299

GR AN D LODGE OP CA

300

PRO CEE DIN GS OP TH

LIF OR NIA

E

itte e is to ins pir e
t on e mission of thi s Co mm
ool Bo ard s.
ide as are hea lth y; and tha
Sch
al
loc
rk act ive ly wit h the ir
doe s no t tak e
y
ind ivi dua l Ma son s to wo
nit
ter
Fra
the
tra dit ion tha t
the
r,
eve
how
t,
pec
res
e
W
are na.
som e and . mo rea position in the pol itic al
uti on is som ew hat cum ber
sol
Re
the
W e feel tha t
o con tro ver sia l
int
er
dge rep res ent ati ves to ent
Lo dge in par ov er. it wo uld req uir e Lo
al
loc
gen era l, or of a
in
ry
son
Ma
of
nts
age
ma tte rs as
the ms elv es fre ely
be enc our age d to exp res s
uld
sho
y
the
as
ere
wh
,
ticu lar
no vot e.
as ind ivi dua l Ma son s.
of the Re sol uti on and a
W e rec om me nd ado pti on
ence:
e a pro Th e Co mm itte e on Jurisprud
Co mm itte e on Jur isp rud enc
the
to
ted
sen
pre
n
bee
Th ere has
.C. by req uir ing
end Sec tio n 331 of the C.M
am
to
1
.
No
on
uti
sol
Re
Pu bli c Sch ool s
pos ed
ll app oin t a Co mm ittee on
sha
dge
Lo
t
uen
stit
con
h
eac
tha t
Bo ard s and rep ort to
meetings of loc al Sch ool
to wo rk wit h and att end
s to Gr and Lo dge .
ngs wit h qua rte rly rep ort
the Lo dge at sta ted me eti
mm itte e app repos ed legisla tio n yo ur Co
In a con sid era tio n of the pro ers . W e fully end ors e ou r tra dit ion al
pro pos
eri can lib ert ies
cia tes the obj ect ive s of the
s as the cor ner sto ne of Am
ool
Sch
c
bli
Pu
the
of
t
sup por
me re bre ast bea tin g
W e are mi ndf ul als o tha t
lf.
itse
n
atio
iliz
civ
of
t
no
if
ek a yea r. is not the
bli c Sch ool s We ek. on e we
and lip service dur ing Pu
ed.
pro tec tio n which is req uir
sor y pla n pro pos ed.
obj ect ion s to the com pul
s
iou
ser
are
re
Ye t, the
le: the Co mm itte e
ilab
may no t be ava
nel
son
per
ed
lifi
qua
le.
Fo r exa mp
y embroil the Lo dge
ent ati ves of the Lo dge ma
res
rep
l
icia
off
as
ers
mb
me
con ten din g Ma son ic
itics or tak e sid es aga ins t
and Ma son ry in loc al pol
ws wh ich do not
dis sen sio n or adv oca te vie
Bre thr en and thu s cau se
the Lodge.
rep res ent the con sen sus of the re is no nee d for this ma nd ato ry pro viIt is als o our feeling tha t
g law. Th e
acc om pli she d un der exi stin
be
y
ma
ive
ect
obj
its
ce
oin t a Co mm itte e
sio n. sin
er his inh ere nt pow ers . app
und
y.
ma
dge
Lo
a
of
r
ste
Ma
dua l cap aci tie s for
act in unofficial and ind ivi
of his Lo dge me mb ers to
local Sch ool Bo ard ,
bas is as liaison wit h the
on ma tte rs
service on a yea r aro un d
an
in tur n to the Gr d Lo dge
and
dge
Lo
the
to
s
ort
bli c Sch ool s
ma kin g rep
s for est abl ish me nt of Pu
son
rea
the
hin
wit
sed
enc om pas
Co mm itte e me mb ers
ion 1th , C.M .C. Th ese
vis
bdi
Su
,
182
See
ek.
We
affect pub lic sch ool s
elv es wit h ma tte rs wh ich
als o cou ld con cer n the ms
the Sta te Cons~i­
of the Co mm iss ion to rev ise
e ph ase of thi s.
gen era lly suc h as the wo rk
On
.
oin ted by the Go ver nor
public school
tut ion wh ich has bee n app
the
in
e
all wh o bel iev
to
e
tud
gni
ma
jor
ma
of
wh ich is
itu tio n ret ain s the
tha t any new Sta te Co nst
e
sur
ke
ma
to
is
.
tem
sys
tio n.
are in ou r pre sen t Co nst itu
res olu tio n but
pro tec tiv e pro vis ion s wh ich
the
of
on
pti
ado
ves
. mo
ure set for th
Yo ur Co mm itte e, the ref ore
ced
pro
sug ges ts the alt ern ati ve
rec om me nds a no vot e and
in thi s rep ort .
t the res olu tio n.
A ma jor ity vot ed aga ins

S
MA SO NIC PLA QU E OR

IGN WI TH EM BL EM

AT EN TR AN CE T O CIT

301
Y

(5)
al Pu rpo ses:
ner
Ge
d
an
Th e Committee on Policy
all ow ed, if it so
tha t a Ma son ic Lo dge be
es
pos
pro
5
.
No
on
uti
sol
.Re
nified sig n or
ce to a city or tow n, a dig a nd num ber
ran
ent
the
at
a~e
_p~
to
s,
e
nam
desire
ic emblem, and giv ing the
pla que exh1bitmg a Ma son ere it meets.
wh
of this Lo dge as well. an d
app rov ed , wh ich
nds tha t this pro ced ure be
me
om
rec
e
itte
mm
Th e Co
l to kn ow tha t
era
gen
in
and the public
s
son
Ma
ing
vel
tra
ble
will ena
n.
Lo dge in tha t cit y or tow
the re is an active Ma son ic
sub sec tio n S of
of
eal
rep
the
pro pos es
Re solution No . 5 me rel y
ota tion an d del etsub sec tio n is merely an ann
Sec tio n 333 C.M .C. Th is
no t cha nge the law .
ing it from the Co de doe s
in the Resolu tion
h the pur pos es exp res sed
Th e Co mm itte e agr ees witstit ute res olu tio n :
sub
and offers the following
des ire s, ere ct
sonic Lo dge may. if it so
Ma
a
t
tha
ED
LV
SO
RE
d a dignified
or tow n wh ere it is loc ate
at the ent ran ces of the city
son ic emblem
or pla qu e exh ibi tin g a Ma
and well ma int ain ed s ign
wh ere a nd wh en
num ber of the Lo dge and
and giv ing the na me and
the r Lo dge or
ano
h
a Lo dge ma y joi ntl y wit
it meets; and fur the r tha t suc h a sign.
Lo dge s ere ct and ma int ain
and the Co mthis sub stit ute res olution
of
on
pti
ado
the
ve
mo
e
W
mittee urg es a yes vote.
en ce:
Th e Committee on Jurisprud
t the following
enc e Committe e we pre sen
rud
isp
Jur
the
On beh alf of.
rep ort on Resolution 5:
Re solution No . 5 rea ds:
C.M .C be
sec tio n S of Sec tion 333
sub
at
Th
:
D
VE
OL
ES
"R
rep eal ed. "
a Lo dge to ma inds : "I t is not pro per for
rea
s
333
n
tio
Sec
.C.
M
C._
.
it is loc ate d bea rin g
to the cit y or tow n wh ere
tain sig ns at the ent ran ces
ber and add res s of
emblem and the nam e, num
the Sq uar e and Co mp ass
the Lo dge ."
cinded . Th e
uld no t be rep eal ed or res
sho
.C.
C.M
of
s
333
n
Sec tio
rea son s are :
wo uld req uir e a
Lo dge s in Lo s An gel es
I. To acc om mo dat e the
s and add resses of
ds wit h the nam es, num ber
num ber of hug e sig nb oar
or a doz en or mo re
at the sev era l ent ran ces
the Lo dge s to be placed
sm alle r boa rds .
ew ays . Th ere
ran ces are gen era lly via fre ists to rea d
ent
es
citi
r
alle
sm
in
en
Ev
2:
ble mo tor
e to be lar ge ind eed to ena
the sig nbo ard s wo uld hav
at fre ew ay spe eds .
ry con tro ver sy.
the sub jec t of much ang
3. Sig nbo ard s tod ay are

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

302

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Even motorists rail at the pollution of our outdoors by billboards. signs
and other symbols of commercial sprawl. Because of this scorn, the cost
of such commercial advertising and the present speed of the would-be
readers on the highways. some advertisers are removing their signboards
from the highways.
1. Passage of this resolution would plunge Masonry into this controversy. It would drop the great name and fame of Masonry to the street
level with commercial advertising.
We move adoption of the resolution as presented but urge a no vote.
The Committee on Finance reported but without recommendation.
A simple majority voted for the resolution. Failing a 5/6 vote. the
matter was held over until the 1965 Annual Communication as a "Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances." (Sec. 783 C.M.C.)
PUBLISH NAMES OF ELECTED CANDIDATES

(7)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 7 has been referred to your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes. and we have carefully considered it.
This resolution proposes an amendment to Section 331 of the California Masonic Code. The amendment would permit a Lodge to notify
its members in its Trestleboard. or other document sent through the
United States mail. of the names of applicants for the degrees in that
Lodge. and in like manner. of the names of Candidates scheduled to
receive a degree upon a particular night.
It must be borne in mind that the proposed amendment is permissive
and not mandatory. If adopted, it would permit each Lodge to decide
for itself whether it would use one or both such notices. or neither of
them. At present. no Lodge may make a choice of the course it follows.
because all Lodges are prohibited from using either notice.
As stated a moment ago. the fir st portion of the proposed amendment
would grant permission to a Lodge to notify its members through the
mail of the names of applicants for the Degrees in that Lodge. Probably
many of you have seen. as we have, notices of this type emanating
from some English. Canadian. or Australian Lodge. or from a Lodge in
some other Jurisdiction in the United States. We have seen such notices
in Trestlebonrds. and on other occasions in a separate folded sheet
enclosed with other mailed matter. Under the proposed amendment.
each Lodge which determined to gi\·e notice could determine the form
of the notice, whether in the Trestleboard, or by separate enclosure.
It should be pointed out that the proposed amendment contemplates
a notice which would not be as broad as some we have seen, for it
speaks only of giving the names of applicants. while some from other
Jurisdictions we have seen give not only the name of the applicant. but
his address and occupation.

303

It is .reasonably certain that some opponent of the proposed amendexpress the fear that some profane, somewhere, sometime,
will .see the name of an applicant and it may be suggested that some
applicant may be solicited to buy something. The very fact that our
proposed notice would not carry an address or occupation would seem
to be a safeg~ard against any commercial use of the notice by anyone.
One obvious and valuable purpose of sending the names of applicants for the Degrees to the me mbers of the Lodge receivinri the applic~tion :voul~ be to alert any member who possessed knowl~dge of the
d1squ~lificat1on of an applicant. He could then come fonvard and protect his Lodge from the election of an unworthy applicant. Under our
present system. the only way all the members of any Lodge can know
the names of all applicants for the Degrees is for every member of the
Lodg~ . no rnatt~r where he resides. to attend every alternate Stated
Meeting. There is not a single Lodge in this Jurisdiction where that will
happen or be approximated.
Answer to yourselves the question: Have unworthy applicants been
admitted to our Lodges because the re was no practical machinery to
alert members who possessed knowledge of their unworthiness?
Answer to yourselves the question: Isn't it possible that this proposed procedure might contribu te to the reduction of the number of
Masonic trials with which this Jurisdiction is saddled every year?
Answer two further questions: Are our Lodges so ashamed of the
name of some applicant that they must leave all their members not
present in the hall in the ~ark as to the names of all applicants to prevent
some profane from learnmg the fact that a certain application has been
made? To which do you attach the most importance, the protection of
your Lodge or the fear that a profane will see a name of an app licant?
.There is a second valuable and more pleasant purpose which a
notice of the names of applicants will serve. That is to alert a member
who is a friend or acquain tance of an applicant that the applicant is
about to knock at the door of the Lodge. Such a notice would appear
to be a courtesy by the Lodge to such a member. Would not such a
notice be appreciated by those members of your Lodge who are not as
regular in their attendance as you are?
Let us turn now to the second part of the proposed amendme nt. It
would permit a Lodge, if it decided so to do. to notify its members in its
Tre~tleboard, or by other document sent through the mail. that on a
particular night a candidate or candidates named in the notice would
receive a Degr~e. Such advance notice also partakes of a courtesy from
the Lodge to its members. It would advise all the friends of all the
Candidat~s scheduled for a particular night of the coming conferrals,
and permit them to arrange their personal calendars to avoid conflicts
and attend. How often, in how many Lodges, we ask, does a membe~
miss a Degree conferred on a friend-or mere acquaintance-because he

m~nt will

GR AN D LODGE OF CA

30 4

PRO CE ED ING S OF TH

E

est ion to reply
ur? It wo uld beg the qu
occ
to
ing
go
s
wa
it
ow
he sho uld cal l up
did no t kn
nd wh o is a Ca nd ida te,
frie
a
s
ha
er
mb
me
a
tha t if
h mo nth to asc ert ain
r. an d keep calling eac
ste
Ma
or
te
ida
nd
Ca
the
t month. Th e ha rd fac ts
did ate is sch ed ule d tha
es no t kn ow
wh eth er a pa rtic ula r can
will no t att en d if he do
bly
ba
pro
er
mb
me
the
t
mo nth , an d tha t
of life are tha
gre e du rin g the coming
de
a
e
eiv
rec
l
wil
end
ced abs enc e of suc h
tha t his fri
un de r the pre sen t en for
ow
kn
t
no
l
wil
bly
ba
he pro
tha t the use of the
com mu nic ati on .
qu est ion : Is it po ssi ble
An sw er to yo urs elv es the
rea se att en da nc e?
be tha t the re is a
pro po sed no tic e mi gh t inc
be made. It ma y well
to
int
po
al
fin
a
is
Th ere
notices to its ow n
to give eit her of the se
sh
wi
t
no
uld
wo
ich
wh
Lo dg e
to itself, bu t sho uld its
od . Le t it so de cid e as
go
d
an
ell
W
s.
er>
mb
me
pre ve nt all of the sev en
o" on thi s Re sol uti on to
tices. or
rep res en tat ive vo te "N
usi ng eit he r of the se no
m
fro
es
dg
Lo
er
oth
e
dg es to ch art
hu nd red an d nin
mi t eac h of the oth er Lo
per
d
an
,
es"
"Y
te
vo
y
sho uld the
rec om me nd s a ye s
its ow n course?
y an d Ge ne ral Pu rpo ses
lic
Po
on
e
itte
mm
Co
e
Th
op tio n .
vo te an d we move its ad

rudence:
riz e Lo dg es
Th e Co mm itte e on Jurisp
Sec. 334 C. M. C. to au tho
d
en
am
to
ks
see
n
tio
Th is res olu
tes of deg ree s.
an d can did ate s an d da
ts
can
pli
ap
of
es
nam
rea son s:
to pu bli sh
de fea ted for the following
be
uld
sho
n
tio
olu
res
e
Th
ce the fou nd ing of
nte d suc h pu bli cat ion sin
d
1. Tr ad itio n ha s pre ve
bee n a pri vat e privilege
all the ye ars thi s ha s
Gr an d Lo dg e. Du rin g
ers in Lo dg e As sem ble d.
se att en da nc e.
sub jec t am on g the me mb
thi s ch an ge wo uld inc rea
t
tha
e
iev
bel
to
rd
ha
TV jus t wa itin g
2. It is
me mb er mi gh t ·sit at his
A
.
ult
res
ld
cou
e
sit
po
for the deg ree s.
Th e op
clo se friends ha d ap pli ed
his
of
e
on
t
tha
ed
tifi
no
to be
bly wo uld cau se dir e
nam es cou ld an d pro ba
a str an ge r
3. Su ch pu bli cat ion of
aff ord an op po rtu nit y for
uld
wo
It
e.
dg
Lo
a
to
Lo dg e an d
con seq uen ces
co nta ct a me mb er of the
to
er
ord
r
ou
for
t
pec
to co nta ct the
ho ldi ng no res
ate cau sin g rej ect ion or
did
can
a
ify
vil
ne
alo
ate to ref use to pro for spi te
dg e cau sin g the can did
Lo
the
ify
vil
d
an
ate
can did
ts is ou r bu sin ess an d
inv est iga tio n of ap pli can rtu nit y to int erf ere .
d
an
ion
ect
sel
e
Th
d.
cee
op po
ge r sho uld be giv en an
ou rs alo ne an d no str an
act me nt of the resoluen
the
t
tha
is
all
of
n
tio
jec
ob
ing
wn
sec rec y of the
4. T•he cro
Tw en ty- thi rd: "T he
rk
ma
nd
La
e
lat
vio
tion wo uld
y as follows :
ins titu tio n."
ve ma int ain ed thi s sec rec
Th rou gh all time we ha
to a sec ret comreceived it is del ive red
a. Af ter ap pli cat ion is
the Ma ste r an d
to
r an d ret urn ed
ste
Ma
the
to
ly
on
n
mittee kn ow
Ma ste r.
e it is de str oy ed by the
es wh en po ste d
aft er act ion by the Lo dg
nam
ion
ict
nc urr en t jur isd
co
of
es
cas
in
en
Ev
b.

305

LIF OR NIA

w. (L uc as.
be ex po sed to public vie
t
no
uld
sho
s
ard
bo
on bulletin
C. )
G. M . 18 97 -5 18 -a C. M.
notices, fol der s or
pri nte d on po sta l car d
be
t
c. Na me s can no
13 -5 18 -b C. M. C. )
car ds. (Fi lm er, G. M . 19
inf orm ati on ma y
t by first cla ss mail. Th e
d. Na me s can no t be sen
W arr en , G. M.
ur
rth
n-M aso ns. (A
no
of
s
nd
ha
the
o
int
nte d in Lo dg e
well come
e is tru e if nam es are pri·
sam
e
Th
C.
M.
C.
-d
18
19 53 -5
Bulletin s.
cep t po sti ng on
blishe d in a ny fas hio n ex
e. Na me s ma y no t be pu
ng co nc urr en t jur iseting of a Lo dg e ho ldi
bulletin bo ard du rin g me 56 -5 18 -e C. M .C. )
19
en vio lat ed
diction. (St ew art . G. M.
nd ma rk of sec rec y ha s be
La
or
ion
dit
tra
s
thi
if
us to violate.
f. Ev en
is no cau se or exc use for
h
suc
s,
ion
ict
isd
jur
er
by oth
lifo rni a will ma tch
on g do er to em ula te. Ca
wr
a
ose
cho
t
no
us
t
Le
eed it for ou r Gr an d
h jur isd ict ion an d exc
·
pro gre ss wi th an y suc
t wa y.
lan d. Ma y we ke ep it tha
te.
vo
no
a
e
urg
Lo dg e is the be st in the
t
bu
tio n as pre sen ted
olu
res
the
of
n
tio
the
op
te,
ad
W e move
g a 5/ 6 ·Vo
for the resolu tio n. Fa ilin
tio n as a "P roA simple ma jor ity vo ted
ica
un
mm
Co
1965 An nu a l
the
til
un
er
ov
d
hel
s
wa
ma tte r
C. M. C. )
Or din an ces ." (Se c. 78 3
the
to
t
en
dm
en
am
sed
po
SO LIC ITA TIO N OF

CE RT AIN AD VE RT ISI

(9 )

NG

:
y and General Purposes
Th e Co mm itte e on Po lic lic y an d Ge ne ral Pu rpo ses . to' wh ich wa s
Yo ur Co mm itte e on Po
. 9. rep ort s as follows:
son ic Co de
ref err ed Re sol uti on No
334 of the Ca lif orn ia Ma ve rti sin g
on
cti
Se
ds
en
am
n
tio
Th e resolu
iciting an y ad
the ir me mb ers from sol
pro hib itin g Lo dg es an d
be pu bli she d by or for
to
rts
ich is or pu rpo
wh
ion
cat
bli
pu
y
an
for
in or
all ow the soliciting of
n. Th is res olu tio n wo uld
tio
iza
an
org
ic
son
Ma
y
an
dit to the go od na me
wo uld no t " bri ng dis cre
rso n wh o might
an y ad ve rtis ing which
tha n beneficial to an y pe
s
les
be
to
ve
pro
or
ve rti sed ."
of M aso nry
pu rch ase the ite ms so ad
or
use
d.
en
att
to
d
nce
g ad ve rti sin g wa s
be influe
hib itio n ag ain st solicitin
pro
the
of
e
nc
sta
sub
e
Th
Be for e tha t com mu nic aGr an d Lo dg e in 1951.
by
ted
op
ad
sly
ou
im
an
un
zeal of some of ou r
pa ren t tha t the bu sin ess pro gra ms an d oth er
tio n it ha d bec om e ap
s,
s for bu lle tin s. ma gaz ine
bre thr en in ob tai nin g ad
for so- cal led affiliated
d
an
es
dg
Lo
t
en
itu
nst
co
for
th
-bo
ns
rni ty for at lea st
pu bli ca tio
di.!lcredit up on the Fr ate
ht
ug
bro
d
-ha
ns
tio
bee n solicited felt
org an iza
an ts an d oth ers wh o had
rch
me
ny
Ma
s:
son
rea
tw o
to pe rsu ad e the m to
sur e" ha d be en ex ert ed
res
"p
r
fai
un
e
som
t
tha
ou t to be misleading if
the ad s ob tai ne d tur ne d
da ng er of
ad ve rtis e, an d som e of
mm itte e believes tha t the
Co
is
Th
nt.
ule
ud
fra
wo uld op en the
no t do wn rig ht
to wh ich thi s res olu tio n
esnc
rre
cu
oc
h
suc
of
n
a rep eti tio

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

306

307

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

door-far outweighs any possible financial gains that would accrue to
our ~dges or to other organizations requiring Ma sonic affiliation as a
condition of membership.
W,,c doubt very much that "Masonry has substantially suffered"
from the loss of respectable revenue," as recited in the third paragraph
of the preamble of this resolution. What loss any so-called affiliated
organization may have sustained by reason of Section 334 is not a
concern of this Grand Lodge.
The ~roponents ~a.ve attempted to guard against abuses by limiting
the permitted advertisin9 by the lan9uage quoted in the above second
paragraph. That language, however, is so vague and indefinite as to be
impossible of enforcement: who could with any certainty determine
that an ad "might" or "might not" "prove to be less than beneficial to
any person who might be" persuaded to buy the product advertised?
This Committee. therefore. moves the adoption of Resolution No. 9
but recommends a no vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
There has been presented to the Committee on Jurisprudence a proposed Resolution No. 9 to amend Section 334 of the C.M.C. by permitting Masonic advertising. unless it would bring discredit on Masonry
or prove nonbeneficial or misleading.
Your Committee feels the proposed resolution would emasculate
the protective provisions of our present law on the subject. We remind
t~e Gra.nd Lodge that this present law was born of abuses that did bring
d1scred1t on Masonry and that did prove nonbeneficial and misleading
to those induced by such advertising. The sorry story is reflected in
reports of Committees of this Grand Lodge over years past. Pursuant
to recommendatio ns of your Grand Lodge Committees. reported in our
proceedings. the Grand Lodge adopted our present law in 1951, and
further strengthened the law in 1954. The abuses of which some unscrupulous individuals and publications were guilty brought disgrace to
the good name of Masonry. Those abuses were cleared up and the good
name of Masonry was restored on the strength of our present Jaws.
Any interested brother need only read the Committee reports to catch
a glimpse of why we need the law in its present form and why there
should be no such amendment as proposed. See, for example. our proceedings of 1951, page 131: and of 1954. page 148. Your Grand Lodge,
as recommended by your Grand Lodge Committees. authorized litigation which was conducted on behalf of Grand Lodge successfully, and
which resulted in a judgment in favor of Grand Lodge to forbid the
use of Masonic names and symbols in advertising and for fraudulent
purposes. A copy of the judgment is set forth on pages 371 and 372
C.M.C.
The proposed amendment would again lead to abuses. It would be
the foot in the door for exploiters and promoters of advertising and

advertising publications to commercialize Masonry. For exai:i~le. it
contains no method for adequate policing of the type of advert1~mg or
for surveillance of the publication. nor is there any safeguard agamst the
usual commercial implications . Moreover. our experience has ·s hown that
such policing and surveillance is not practicable. 1:'he proposed amend~
ment would permit a person to advertise in Masonic channels for monetary gain to himself. That is contrary to Masonic concepts. The person
runn ing such an ad would subject the Craft to the danger of a recurre~ce
of those abuses which plagued this Grand Lodge before the protection
of our present law. and if it be argued that the person who wo.uld so
advertise was not doing so for monetary gain to himself alon: m that
there might be incidental benefits or gain to a Lodge. then this should
be weighed against opening a door to unscrupulous persons and to the
overwhelming fraud that your Committees found always grew and
festered in similar types of advertising.
We. therefore, move adoption of the resolution but urge a no. vote .
The Committee on Commercialism indicated its concurrence m the
recommendatio n.
A majority voted against the resolution.

VARIED INITIATION FEE

(10&11)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Pu.rposes has had ref erred
.
to it Resolution!> Nos. 10 and 11.
Both of these resolutions were designed to stimulate attracting
younger men to membership in ?~r. F:aternity. ~he.y both propose to
do this by having two different m1tiat1ons fees withm the same Lodge
based on ages of applicants.
While this Committee recognizes the fact that we should do what
we can to make Masonry more attractive to non-Masons . we ~lso have
an obligation to our members. It is the op~nion of your Committ:e that
having different initiation fees or lowering the fees for special age
groups would not be fair or equi~able to th~ Brethren of the Lodges.
We believe that the solution to this problem 1s not a moneta1!' concern .
but lies primarily with our interest in youth groups and creatmg a well~
informed public as to what Masonry is and stands for.
We move the adoption of Resolutions Nos. I 0 and 11 but urge a no
vote on both.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLUTION No. I 0

It appears that this resolution seeks an escalator fee scale ~or the
degrees-the amount ascending with age . The effect would be d1ff erent

GRAND LODG E OF CALIF ORNI A

308

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

renti al treat ment for some
fees for diffe rent appli cants , resul ting in prefe
over othe rs.
break our "on the level ''
This woul d be class legis lation and woul d
morial.
imme
time
conc ept whic h has been our boas t from
izatio n. Our fees
organ
nsive
expe
To some exten t Maso nry is an
affor d it to enter
ot
cann
who
one
le
enab
to
shou ld not be reduc ed just
could reduc e fees to allow
the Lodg e. If this proce dure is appr oved we
upon the Lodg e or. wors e,
thos e to enter who migh t become charg es
resul t in the depri vatio n
we migh t admi t some whos e mem bership could
first.
of their famil ies. whic h shou ld come
mark Twen ty-se cond
.. Enac tmen t of this resol ution will viola te Land
ns."
Maso
- The equa lity of all
nted but urge a no vote.
We move adop tion of the resol ution as prese
ResoL UTIO N No.

11

0 for the three degr ees
This resol ution seeks a maximum fee of $50.0
31 years .
from appli cants betw een the ages of 21 and
nted but urge a no vote
We move adop tion of the resolution as prese
n No. 10.
lutio
Reso
on
for the reaso ns specified in our repo rt
urren ce in the
conc
its
ated
indic
The Com mitte e on Finance
reco mme ndat ion.
A majo rity voted again st the resol ution s.
APPO INT SPEC IAL COM MITT EE TO
AUT HOR IZE GRAN D MAST ER TO
ION
RECO M MEND S AGAI NST RATI FICAT
STUD Y SECT ION 408 C.M .C. AND
7
No.
s10N
OF GRAN D MAST ER'S DEc1

(12)

oses:
The Com mitte e on Policy and Gene ral Purp
oses to whic h Reso lutio n
Purp
ral
Gene
and
y
Polic
on
e
mitte
Com
The
on.
there
ts
No. I 2 has been refer red now repor
resol ution . seeki ng the
At the outse t it shou ld be note d that this
rt on Secti on 408 of the
appo intm ent of a comm ittee to study and repo
Decision No. 7 of
C.M .C. and the holdi ng in abey ance of action upon ted. is pred icate d
adop
or
the Gran d Mast er until such repo rt is avail able
upon an erron eous sta teme nt of fact.
state s that "at the time
The first "Wh erea s" claus e of the resol ution
ct matt er was prosubje
its
law,
made
Sect ion 408 of the C.M .C. was
Ame rica. "
hibit ed by the laws of the Unit ed State s of
n, no regu latio ns on the
ibitio
Proh
of
era
the
g
The fact is that durin
Lodg e. Inde ed, a prop osed
subj ect was ever adop ted by this Gran d
was rejec ted by Gran d
decl arati on in supp ort of the proh ibitio n Jaws
to obey the laws of the
ated
Lodg e beca use Maso ns were alrea dy oblig
.
694)
693:
1925
coun try in whic h they resid e. (

309

by Gran d Lodg e long
The regul ation s now in ques tion were adop ted
liquo r t;:> be serve d at
prior to Proh ibiti on-t he resol ution forbi dding
adop ted m 1908. ( 1908 :
any Maso nic banq uet or gathe ring havin g been
appli catio ns from pe~­
ving
123, I 90). And the regul ation again st recei
nder . was adop ted m
barte
a
as
or
sons enga ged in the saloo n busin ess
1912. (191 2: 212; 1913 : 194) .
ter by edict decla red
Afte r repea l of Proh ibitio n, the Gran d Mas
be still in full force
to
,
n
ibitio
Proh
these regul ation s. adop ted prior to
and effect. ( 1934 : 26).
the resol ution , we proWith this corre ction of the initial prem ise of
the resol ution , which
of
on
porti
d
ceed to a cons idera tion of the secon
nt any actio n on Deci~ion
prop oses holdi ng in abey ance for the prese
we are of the unqualifie~
No. 7 of the Gran d Mast er. In this regar d.
r whic h .a Gran~ Ma~ter .ts
opini on that the estab lishe d proce dure , unde
m rulin gs while he 1s still
interi
acco rded action by Gran d Lodg e upon his
cially does this pro~
Espe
.
nued
in office, shou ld be prese rved and conti
Decision No. 7.
with
case
the
is
as
when
cedu re seem to be appr opria te
effect upon the study and
a failu re to ratify migh t have a subst antia l
F or these reaso ns: we are
repor t. whic h the resol ution also proposes.
h woul d delay actio n upon
oppo sed to that porti on of the resolution whic
Deci sion No . 7 of the Gran d Mast er.
rds as the essen ce of
Turn ing now to what this Com mitte e rega
be appo inted by the
ittee
Reso lutio n No. 12, the prop osal that a comm
Secti on 408 of ~he
of
study
a
ng
Gran d Mast er for the purp ose of maki
that sound. policy
view
the
of
are
we
.
C.M .C. and to repo rt there on
and re-ev aluat mg the.
supp orts the reason;;ibleness of now reviewing
e
so many year:5 ago.
legis lation enac ted. as we have point ed out.
h
whte
issue
the
of
nt
dgme
come to this conclusion whol ly with out preju
only that .custo ms cha~ge
will be raise d by such a study , recog nizin g
but intel ligen t reapp raisa l
is
lation
and that periodic restu dy of our legis

"'!

and self- examination.
first move the amen dTo effectuate these conc lusions. we there for
nd "reso lved" claus e
seco
the
out
ng
striki
ment of Reso lutio n No. 12 by
of actio n on the Gran d
there in whic h relat es to the holdi ng in abey ance
vote on such amen dmen t.
Mas ter's Decision No. 7, and we urge a yes
Reso lutio n No. 12 as
You r Com mitte e now move s the adop tion of
amen ded and urge s a yes vote there on .

The Com mitte e on Jurisprudence:
d Mast er to appo int a
This resolution seeks to compel the Gran
and bring in a repo rt and
Com mitte e to work over Sec. 408 C.M .C.
recom mend ation abou t liquo r.
ter's Decision No. 7
This resol ution also asks that the Gran d Mas
d when it is preenge
chall
be
be held in abey ance . Said decision shou ld
sente d and not by way of this resolution .

310

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

We move adoptio n of the resolut ion as prese nted but urge a
no vote.
By action of Grand Lodge the amend ment propos ed by the
Committee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es wos adopte d.
Amend ed resolut ion adopte d.

AUTHORIZ E GRAND MASTER TO APPOINT SPECIAL COMMITTEE
TO STUDY
S ECTION 408 C.M.C . J\ND RECOMMENDS A GA INST RATIFI
C:ATION OP
GRAND MAsTER·s D Ec1s10N No. 7 AND RES CIND ALL LAws.
RuLES,
EDICTS. R EG ULATIONS AND DECISIONS ON THE SUBJE CT H
AVING TH E
FORCE OF LAW
( 13)

The Commi ttee on Policy and G eneral Purpos es:

I have also the Comm ittee's report on Resolu tion No. 13.
which is
in the exact langua ge of No. 12 except for the additio n of
a resolut ion
paragr a ph provid ing " that all other referen ces contain ed
in our laws,
rules. regulat ions . edicts, decisions or a ny other matter on
this subject .
w ritten or unwrit ten , having the force of la w, which are contra
ry hereto
are re scinded ."
All of the observ ations made in respect to Resolu tion No.
12 arc
equally applica ble to the presen t resolut ion and will not be
repeate d.
In respect to the one resolut ion p a ragrap h contain ing n ew
matter .
the langua ge is ambigu ous and confus ing. By propos ing resciss
ion of all
legisla tion a nd decisio ns "contra ry hereto "-refer ring to the
resolut ion
-may be attemp ting merely to assure no interfe rence with
a commi ttee
study et nd report if authori zed. So interpr eted . the langua
ge appear s
wholly unnece ssary.
On the other hand , it is conceiv able that the lan guage in
questio n
is intende d to repea l, in effect. bot h Section 408 and all decisio
ns relating thereto . pendin g the prepar ation and submis sion of
a commi ttee
report if a study is authori zed. So interpr eted, the langua ge is
a manife st
pre-jud gment of any authori zed study a nd should be rej ected.
Under any interpr etation , this Comm ittee feels that the new
matter
presen ted by th is resolut ion is confus ing and would unduly
and improper ly influen ce a fair a nd unbias ed study of Section 408
C.M.C .
For the foregoi ng reason s, this Comm ittee first moves th e
Amend ment of Resolu tion No. 13 by striking out th e second and
third "resolved " clause s-relat ing to the ho lding in abeyan ce of action
on th e
Grand Ma ster's D ecision No. 7 and the resciss io n of all
laws and
d ecision s contrar y to the resolut ion- -and urges a yes vote
on such
amend ment.
Your Comm ittee now moves the a dop tio n of Resolu tion No.
13 as
amend ed and urges a yes vote thereon .

The Commi ttee on Jurisprudence:

This resolut ion is to the same effect as Resolu tion No. 12 except

this

311

Reso lution No. 13 in additio n seeks repe<il of all Code section
s inconsisten t with it.
We mo\·e adoptio n of this resolut ion as presen ted but urge a
no vote
for the reason s listed in our re port on No. 12.
By action of Grand Lodge t he amend ments propos ed by the
C o mmittee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es were adopte d.
Amend ed resolut ion adopte d.
EXPENDITURE LODGE F UNDS TO CHARTER CHAPTER OP
O RDER OF DEMOLA y

(14)
The Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purposes:
Resolu tion No. 14 would permit the use o f Lodge funds in
connec tion with th e sponso ring of the Order of D eMolay .
Lodge funds for this use would be limited . alt h ough the
constan t
active particip ation of a sponso ring Lodge would be unlimit
ed. The
invalu2 ble assista nce of any and a ll membe rs of the sponso
ring Lodge,
by way of individ ual contrib ution, both of money and/ or materia
ls, on
an indepe ndent b asis is more des irable.
Your Comm ittee o n Policy and Genera l Purpos es feels that
becaus e
the amoun t of monies involve d are insigni ficant as compa
red to the
potenti al threat of possibl e undue influen ce by such Lodg e, that
it moves
adoptio n of t h e resolut ion and recomm end s a no vote.

The Comm ittee on furispruden ce:

This resolut ion seeks amend ment of Secs. 411-e & 4 12-u
C.M.C .
These section s contain the sa me decisio n by Gran d Master
Stewa rt in
1956 holding tha t Lodge fun ds may not be used to sponso r
Chapte rs o f
DeMo lay. The purpos e of this resolut ion is to change th at
d ecision so
as to a utho rize Lodges to pay charter ing fees for Chapte rs of
DeMol ay.
The resolut ion should not be adopte d for the followi ng reason
s:
1. A decisio n by a Grand Master . t h a t is a letter an n otation
under
a numbt>red section of our Code, may be repeale d but
cannot be
amend ed. The reaso n is that a decisio n is based upon a special
state of
facts an d is an interpre tation of the meanin g of a numbe red Code
section
relating to the specia l set of fa cts .
2. Traditi onally, M asonry approv es the aims an d purpos es
of DeMolay and favors moral suppor t by Mason s a lbeit DeMo
lay is not a
Mason ic o rganiza tion . It is an interna tional body and require
s no Masonic affiliati on. throug h family r elation ship or otherw ise, as
a conditi on
to memb e rship.
We move adoptio n of the r esoluti on as pr esented but urge a
no vote.
The C ommitt ees on Financ e and on DeMo lay indicat ed their
concurrenc e in the re comme nda tion.
A majori ty voted agains t the resolut ion.

GRA ND LODGE. OP CAL

312

PRO CEE DIN GS OP TH E

u op OR AL EXA MIN ATI ON
{ 15)
General Purposes:
The Co mm itte e on Po licy and
Pol icy and
ref err ed to the Co mm itte e on
Res olu tion No . 15 has been
mm itte e beg s
car efu l con sid era tion you r Co
Ge ner al Pur pos es a nd aft er
to rep ort the following.
ting the
Section 439 C.M .C. by per mit
Bro the r
Th is res olu tion wo uld am end
g
nin
our
soj
a
for
ns of identification
mea
a
as
er
lett
it
spl
a
of
use
Lodges. Th e
o desires to visit one of our
from ano the r jur isd icti on wh
tain . but it is
wh at the lett er sho uld con
Lod ge tha t
res olu tion doe s not indica te
his
ch for the fac t und er seal of
rec ogn ize d
pre sum ed tha t it wo uld vou
t
visi
to
r sta ndi ng and ent itle d
the Bro the r wa s in reg ula
Lod ges .
t Lod ges
e on Soj our ner s and con stit uen liation
affi
Gra nd Lod ge has a Co mm itte
ind uce
t are wo rki ng dili gen tly to
hav e similar com mit tee s tha
wh o res ide in
ns
ctio
sdi
juri
er
oth
en from
wit h our Lod ges by Bre thr
con tac t wit h
of
thr en, wh o hav e been out
ission to
C alifornia. Ma ny of the se Bre
adm
k
see
to
s of time. are hes itan t
atio n.
min
their Lod ges for lon g period
exa
an
ing
tak
r
because the y fea
n
ctio
sdi
juri
this
in
ge
r and
fea
Lod
a
tha t
this resolution wo uld remove
son ry
Ma
We feel tha t ado pti on of
in
res t
anx iou s to ren ew their inte
ma ny soj our ner s wo uld be
ges.
by becoming active in our Lod
ple tely out
g Bre thr en wh o are now com
Th e tho usa nds of soj our nin
tici pat ion
par
ive
act
into
uld be bro ugh t bac k
accomin
of tou ch wit h Ma son ry, sho
far
go
uld
wo
de
me nt to our Co
and we feel tha t this am end
plishing this obj ect ive .
por tion of
coming into pos session of the
Th e dan ger of an imp ost or
.
tion
era
wa rra nts but little con sid
the lett er is so rem ote tha t it
the r merely
ion s of Grand Lod ge. a Bro
cat
To atte nd the Co mm uni
presence
the
in
e
nam
his
ns
hed him and sig
nis
fur
s
tial
den
cre
the
ts
sen
pre
t question.
e and he is adm itte d wit hou
jur isd icof the Cre den tial s Co mm itte
rep res ent ati\ 'es from oth er
bei ng
Vis itin g Gra nd Office rs and
or
n
atio
nd Lod ge wit hou t exa min
rerep
r
Ou
tion s are received into Gra
.
m
the
h
o has sat in Lod ge wit
r.
nne
vou che d for by a Bro the r wh
ma
e
sam
the
in
er juri sdi ctio ns
sen tati ves are rec eiv ed by oth
be req uir ed
d. the vis itin g Bro the r wo uld
pte
ado
is
If this res olu tion
up due s car d.
it lett er in add itio n to a paid
wo uld
to pre sen t his par t of the spl
pro pos ed by this res olution
wh ich
We feel tha t the pro ced ure
ge,
Lod
the
as
ires to vis it as well
benefit the Bro the r, wh o des
.
ion
liat
affi
app lica tion for
mig ht eve ntu ally receive his
recommend a
res olution be ado pte d and
the
ve
W e. the ref ore , mo
yes vote.
Th e Co mm itte e on Rit ual:
Resolution
to wh ich has been pre sen ted
Th e Co mm itte e on Rit ual
No . 15 rep ort s her ew ith:
SPL IT LETIP-R IN Lm

IFO RNI A

313

ste r inc lud e
at the Ins tall atio n of a Ma
Th e An cie nt Ch arg es given
you r
the fol low ing visitors sha ll be received into
of
"X V Yo u agr ee tha t no
rs
che
vou
per
pro
n, and pro duc ing
Lod ge wit hou t due exa min atio
"
ge.
a reg ula r Lod
the ir hav ing bee n init iate d in
Co ach es"
" H and boo k for Ca ndi dat es
the
in
d
sai
Th is Co mm itte e
ual
ivid ly by a
of a vis itor mu st be ma de ind
(p. 62) , "Th e exa min atio n
of the exa mie
. Remember, the sol e pur pos
visitor is a
committee of thr ee me mb ers
the
t
tha
mbers of the com mit tee
the utm ost
nat ion is to sat isfy the me
h
wit
ted
trea
e tha t the vis itor be
her
s
tate
dic
esy
urt
Co
.
son
Ma
ge ma y be lost
ent ial affiliation wit h the Lod
tac t and hel pfu lne ss. A pot
an obs tac le rac e
the exa min atio n tur ns into
and a Bro the r em bitt ere d if
for the vis itor ."
in our law
nee ded her e is not a cha nge
It seems to us tha t wh at is
committee;
ing
min
exa
the function of an
of
g
din
tan
ers
und
per
pro
but a
r at our gat es
st, of welcoming the stra nge
Fir
gs.
thin
two
ng
doi
of
t
tha
is, in rea lity , a
ms elv es tha t the stra nge r
and , sec ond , of ass uri ng the
Bro the r.
vote.
the res olu tion but urg e a no
We move the ado ptio n of
s:
com mit tee s
Th e Co mm itte e on Sojourner
atti tud es of ma ny exa min ing
Re fere nce wa s ma de to the
les s of wh at
did ate s for adm issi on. Reg ard
wh ich atte mp t to grill the can
r elim ina te the
ure , we dou bt if we will eve
is sai d aga ins t suc h a pro ced
exa min ing
gril ling .
h a hel pin g han d from the
Th ere are occ asio ns, even wit
"sa tisthe
to
self
him
lica nt can not pro ve
committee, on wh ich an app
committee .
fac tion " of the exa min ing
o are not abl e to
vid e a me ans for tho se wh
pro
l
wil
Th e split lett er
son s can be
split lett er ma ny Ma ste r Ma
pro ve the ms elv es and by this
rec laim ed.
of Res olution
ner s rec om me nds ado ptio n
Yo ur Co mm itte e on Soj our
No . 15 and urg es a yes vot e.
ence :
Th e Commit/tee on Jurisprud
of due exa mistit ute a split lett er in pla ce
sub
Th is resolution wo uld
ows :
Fif tee nth which rea ds as foll
e one of
nat ion . It violate s Lan dm ark
bre thr en present. or to som
" No vis itor , unk now n to the
sin g an
pas
t
firs
er a Lod ge wit hou t
them as a M aso n, can ent
.
)
343
p.
.C.
ien t usa ge. " ( C.M
exa mina tion acc ord ing to anc
late the
r wo uld sug ges t tha t we vio
the
It is shocking tha t any bro
.
der
Or
nda tion sto nes o f our
Lan dm arks which are the fou
sen ted this
t the sam e bro the r. wh o pre
tha
It is eve n more sho cki ng
No . 11 ion
lut
eso
n-R
tio
the same res olu
ctly
exa
ted
sen
pre
,
tion
olu
res
y reje cte d by the bre thr en.
las t yea r. wh ich wa s sou ndl
e a no vot e.
olution as pre sen ted but urg
We move ado ptio n of this res
res olution .
A ma jor ity vot ed aga ins t the

314

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS

( 16)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Nearly every year we have had one or more resolution s attempting
to change the requirements of physical qualifications or to abolis h them ,
and this year is no exception.
Resolution No. 16 seeks to break down the existing law by adding
to Section 512 C.M.C. a proviso that " Joss o f the left forearm would
not constitute physically disqualifying an applicant for the degrees of
M asonry"; that is, to provide an exception for a particular case.
All of these proposals to change the physical requirements. often
considered as an Ancient Landmark, have been evoked by a natural
sympathy for those unfortunate men who have suffered severe physical
injuries. It was that sympathy which caused the compromise many
years ago which. resulted in the adoption of our pres~nt regula~ions.
contained in Sections 511 and 512 of the C.M.C.: having no maim or
defect in his body that may render him incapable of learning the art.
and physically able to conform substantially to what the several degrees
respectively require of him." The question as to physical sufficiency of
the applicant is left to the sound discretion of the Lodge. and it is
necessarily determined by the ritual- he must be able to conform substantially to the ritual.
The proponents do not claim. and they certainly cannot claim. that
a candidate who has lost his left forearm can comply or substantially
comply with our ritual. We all know that he cannot.
We do not think that a change should be made in the law to meet
one particular case of ineligibility. It would simply lead to demands for
exceptions in other cases in which an ap plicant cannot comply with our
requirements.
Masonry selects its candidates. No one has a right to admission. It
is a privilege granted to a comparatively small number of men and our
law has fixed the tests of eligibility. This Grand Lodge made a reasonable compromise on the question of physical qualification and we see no
reason to go further. The degrees cannot be conferred in a purely symbolic manner and the candidate must be able to conform substantially
to what the ritual requires of him.
We disapprove the resolution and urge a no vote.
The Committee on furisprudence:
This resolution seeks to amend Sec. 512 C.M.C. by adding at the end
thereof the following:
"The loss of the left forearm would not constitute physically
disqualifying an applicant for the degrees of Masonry.''
Under our law the following physical defects disqualify an
applicant:

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFORNl1\

315

Loss of a foot, loss of right hand. loss of leg . and loss of an eye and
· · 1eg. (513-hC.M.C.).
· Loss of left forearm would ten d to disqua lify to a greater extent
·
·
than mos t of the defects cited.
This resolutio n would violate Landmark Eightccnth- -"The qualification of candidates for initiation ." ( C.M.C. p. 343) and the Un written
Law-"A candidate must be without blemish and have the full and
proper use of his limbs; . .. " (Article 5, p. 314 C.M.C.).
Every year of late, resolutions to reduce the physical qu:ilifications
of applicants have come before this Grand Lodge and all have been
defeated by votes of the brethre n. Similar resolu tion s Nos. 7 & 8 were
defeated in 1961; No. 5 "vils rejected in 1962 and No. 15 was defeated in
1963.
This resolut ion s hould also be defeated. \Ve move adoption of the
resolution as presented but urge a no vote.
The Committee on Rit11al indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution .
EXTEND STATEWIDE TERRITORIAL }URISDICTION TO ALL L ODG ES

( 17)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The purposes of th is resolution. as stated in the resolution itself. are
to give statewide territor ial jurisdiction to all Lodges, to .ibolish the l 0
mile limit and the requirement of notice to other Lodges. and the necessity for waivers of jurisdiction . T o illustrate the result. a man residing
in San Diego could make application for the degrees to a Lodge in
Eureka without notification to any other Lodge, and vice versa. The
resolution seeks to repeal four sections of our law relating to jurisdiction
of Lodges and to amend two others. and to requ ire the Code Commission
to eliminate dozens of annotations.
The proponents of this resolution argue that the presen t requirements
cause delay, and that the Lodge receiving the application "through
proper dilig ence could safely investigate the applicant."
The present requirements a re based upon the sound principle that
the people amonH whom a man lives can best judge his eligibility and
qualifications. The requirements are not, as the proponents assume,
merely to protect Lodges from "poaching" by other Lodges. I3ut if the
provisions have some protective features. the proponents say that a n
active, vir ile Lodge doesn't need any protection. If you are not an active.
virile Lodge, then apparently you are not entitled to protection.
The fact that the present procedure is slow is advantageous, becau se
it permits more time for investigation and for obtaining information
concerning a pplicants.
One of the most frequent criticisms throughout the years has been
the lack of throughness in the inves tigation of candidates. We com-

GRAND LODG E OP CAL IFO

316

PRO CEEDINGS OP THE

diligence
itio n thllt a Lod ge by pro per
plet ely disa gre e wit h the pro pos
distance.
le
rab
side
ate residing at a con
can safe ly inv esti gat e a can did
do so.
to
ible
oss
imp
ly
tha t it is virt ual
We go eve n furt her and say
Lod ge
a
to
on
issi
adm
k
see
ld
lica nt wou
the
Fur the rmo re, an unw orth y app
At
.
him
o kno w him and live aro und
ve
as far as possible from those wh
gati
esti
inv
the
a dan ger ous stra in on
ver y least. the pro pos al wou ld put
pro ces s.
ge in
a man sho uld belong to a Lod
nly
We end ors e the principle tha t
mo
com
ent
um
arg
the
is
s
des. Thi
y
the com mu nity in whi ch he resi
the
n
s to join Cal ifor nia Lod ges whe
in
use d in tryi ng to get soj our ner
ent
pot
e
. We believe it is eve n mor
become resi den ts of Cal ifor nia
deg rees.
the
con nec tion wit h app lica nts for
e as
t of the provisions of our Cod
ugh
tho
no
Thi s reso luti on tak es
ng .
owi
foll
and
687
s
tion
Sec
con tain ed in
to pen al jurisdiction of Lod ges,
ons in utte r confusion.
and it wou ld leav e tho se pro visi
sho uld
ger ous from eve ry asp ect and
We believe the pro pos al is dan
no vot e.
not be app rov ed, and we urg e a
:
nce
to
The Com mit tee on Jurisprude
stat ewi de terr itor ial jurisdiction
end
ext
to
ks
Thi s reso luti on see
tion
sdic
juri
of
ver
wai
and
it
l 0 mile lim
all Lod ges ; to elim inat e the
rees.
deg
the
for
nts
We
resp ecti ng app lica
it for the reason s stat ed therein.
mer
h
muc
has
on
luti
Th e reso
and urg e a yes vote.
move ado ptio n of the reso luti on
lution .
reso
the
t
ins
A maj orit y vot ed aga
CON CUR REN T JuR 1so1 cT1

0N AND Pua uc:A TJO N

(18 )

:
con The Committee on furi sprudence
d Sec. 518 C.M .C .. rela ting to
men
a
to
ks
see
on
luti
reso
s
Thi
ances, as foll ows :
"an d
cur ren t jurisdiction, in two inst
sen ten ce the following wor ds:
last
the
of
1. Ad d at the end
waiver of ;urisdiction."
g. as follows :
2. Ad d a new sen ten ce rea din
of
discretion to publish the nam e
ge's
"Th at it is wit hin the Lod
ster
Ma
and
ft
cra
ing of the Fel low
can did ates for the dat e of con ferr
ge bulletins."
Lod
ve
ecti
resp
Ma son deg ree in the ir
the
pos e and sho uld be def eate d for
Thi s reso luti on has the sam e pur
7.
olution No.
same rea son s specified und er Res
no vote.
lution as pre sen ted but urg e a
reso
the
of
n
ptio
ado
We move
n of
ptio
ado
ed
eral Purposes mov
The Com mit tee on Policy and Gen yes vot e for the sam e rea sons as
urg ed a
the reso luti on as pre sen ted but
tion No. 1.
olu
Res
ind icat ed in its rep ort on
e. the
the resolution. Fai ling a 5/ 6 vot
for
ed
vot
y
A simple maj orit
"Pr oa
as
1965 Ann ual Com mu nica tion
mat ter was held ove r unt il the
nces." (Se c. 783 C.M .C. )
pos ed Am end men t to the Ord ina

LIM IT PRO MIS E IN QUE STI

RNI A

317

ON 15 TO PRO FIC IENCY

( 19)

eral Purposes:
The Com mit tee on Policy and Gen
Gen era l Pur poses, to which was
Yo ur Com mit tee on Pol icy and
orts as follows:
refe rred Res olu tion No . 19, rep
nia
t of Section 527 of the Cal ifor
Thi s resolution ame nds tha t par
the
of
15
.
No
n
stio
que
the lan gua ge of
to
Ma son ic Cod e whi ch sets fort h
nt
lica
app
the
n
upo
s
call
question
the
app lica tion for deg rees. Th at
of
any
for or acc ept membership in
promis e tha t he will not peti tion
egr ee
until he has obt ain ed his thir d-d lve
twe
so-c alle d affiliated org ani zati ons
hin
wit
nt
eve
e Lodge "an d in no
proficiency certificate in his Blu
del etes
his thir d degree. Th e reso lution
ived
mo nth s afte r" he has rece
con se;
ium
ator
mor
s
nth
mo
the twe lvethe quo ted lang uag e imposing
the r
ano
Ma son wou ld be free to join
y
enc
que ntly . a new ly rais ed Ma ster
fici
pro
as soon as he pas sed his
so-c alle d affiliated org ani zati on
exa min atio n.
this
time element was. as recited in
The pur pos e of insertin g tha t
nce
nda
atte
raised bro the r's inte rest and
the
resolution. "to reta in a new ly
t
tha
tee
mit
not app ear to this Com
in his Blue Lod ge. " It doe s
had
has
it
es
cas
y
its purpose; in too man
mo rato rium has accomplished
his turn ing
the r's inte rest in Ma son ry and
bro
a
off"
g
the effect of "co olin
e Lod ge
nts. If the bre thre n of his Blu
to oth er inte rests and involveme
son into
g the newly rais ed Ma ster Ma
are sufficiently zealous in brin gin
app rebe
to
d
, the Lodge wil l not nee
par tici pati on in Lodge ac tivities
k Rite
Yor
the
,
Rite
the r to the Sco ttis h
hensive abo ut " losi ng" the bro
the
ins
reta
on
luti
reso
hasized tha t this
in
y
or the Shrine. It should be emp
enc
fici
pro
his
e
trat
ons
son mu st dem
req uire men t tha t a Ma ster Ma
any of the oth er bodies.
the Thi rd Deg ree before joining
a yes
olu tion No . 19 and recomm end
We move the ado ptio n of Res
vote.
:
The Com mit tee on Juri spr ude nce
. 527
ke from que stio n 15 und er Sec
Thi s resoluti on pro pos es to stri
g . as follows:
C.M .C .. the last wor ds rea din
the
mo nth s a fter you hav e received
"an d in no eve nt wit hin twe lve
Deg ree of M aste r Ma son ."
y the reto be resc ind ed.
and tha t all reg ula tion s con trar
for the rea son s specified therein.
Thi s reso lution seems rea son able
vot e.
on as pre sen ted and urg e a yes
We move ado ptio n of the reso luti
luti on.
A maj orit y vot ed aga inst the reso

GRAND LODG E OP CALI FORN IA

318
CLA RIFY TRIA

319

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE
GRA ND JURI SDIC TION
L PROC EDU RE WHE N FORE IGN
Is INVO LVED

(21)

The Com mitt ee on Grievances:
our Lod ges is susp ende d or
At pres ent whe n a mem ber of one of
whic h he is resid ing. char ges for
expe lled in a forei gn juris dicti on with in
e Lod ge here and an inve stiga the sam e offe nse must be filed in his hom
the proc eedi ngs in the fore ign
of
tion or trial had. The certi fied copy
.
Lod ge is primn facie evid ence of his guilt
ld be give n to the member
shou
e
notic
that
This reso lutio n prov ides
a reco rd of the conv ictio n has
conv icted in the forei gn juris dicti on that
ands a trial in his Cali forn ia
been obta ined and that, unle ss he dem
sixty days .
Lod ge, he will be decl ared expe lled in
her juris dicti on by one of our
anot
in
As a viola tion of Mas onic Law
this proc edur e will save the time
mem bers is a Mas onic offe nse here .
692.4 C.M .C. or a trial. The righ t
and trou ble of an inve stiga tion unde r
is expr essly rese rved .
of the accu sed to elec t to have a trial
mme nds the adop tion of this
You r Com mitt ee on Grie vanc es reco
reso lutio n.
The Com mitt ee on Jurisprudence:
eque nt to the conv ictio n of
This reso lutio n relat es to proc edur e subs
juris dicti on but resid ing in anot her
a mem ber belo ngin g to a Lod ge in this
dicto n. It seek s to ame nd Sec. 731
juris dicti on at a trial by said othe r juris
cond uctin g anot her trial in this
C.M .C. and pres cribe s the man ner of
juris dicti on.
the fund ame ntal laws of MaThis reso lutio n is not in acco rd with
is the pres ent Sec. 731 C.M .C.
sonr y and shou ld not be adop ted nor
for the follo wing reas ons:
in such acco rd and shou ld be repe aled
on has the righ t to try a Mas on
1. It is elem enta ry that one juris dicti
he belo ngs to a Lod ge in anot her
resid ing in its juris dicti on even thou gh
k Sev ente enth -" Eve ry Free mar
juris dicti on. This is so beca use of Land
lations of the Mas onic jurismason is amenable to the laws and regu
diction in whic h he resides."
and cred it to the judic ial
2. Eve ry juris dicti on shou ld give full faith
acts of anot her juris dicti on.
a repo rt by the Grie vanc es
3. This Gra nd Lod ge in 1952 appr oved
men ts unde r l & 2 abov e. Riead
Com mitt ee whic h conf irme d the state
afte r a trial whic h was unca lled
731-b C.M .C. This was done how ever
for and unne cess ary.
ge. whic h tries and conv icts a
4. Com ity dicta tes that a Gra nd Lod
her juris dicti on, shou ld notif y the
mem ber belo ngin g to a Lod ge in anot
d. is the cons tant prac tice. It folothe r juris dicti on. This . we unde rstan
e is for the Gra nd Mas ter to
lows that the only subs eque nt proc edur
was a mem ber to conf orm its
noti fy the Lod ge of whic h the conv icted
reco rds.

In any even t we poin t out that Sec. 432.

6 does not invo lve a mult iple

mem ber in a forei gn juris dicti on.
pres ente d but urge a no vote .
We mov e adop tion of the reso lutio n as
be repe aled and urge a yes
.C.
Furt her we move that Sec. 731 C.M
vote .
Purposes indi cate d its conThe Com mitt ee on Poli cy and Gen eral
curr ence in the reco mme ndat ion.
Ado pted 5/6 vote .
EN FORE IGN GRA ND JURI SDIC TION
CLA RIFY TRIA L PROC EDU RE WH
Is INVO LVED

(22}

The Com mitt ee on Grievanoes:
who is give n notic e unde r 732
Reso lutio n 22 prov ides that a Mas on
ss he dem ands a trial with in sixty
C.M .C. that he will be expe lled unle
may with draw the dem and for
days and who does mak e such a dem and
peri od nnd the Lod ge can ther etrial at any time with in said sixty day
.
upon proc eed with the expu lsion
for trial cann ot be with draw n
It is alre ady our law that such dem and
733} and Reso lutio n 22 mere ly
afte r the sixty day peri od ( C.M .C.
al duri ng the sixty days .
clarifies the righ t to mak e such with draw
mme nds the adop tion of this
You r Com mitt ee on Grie vanc es reco
reso lutio n.
The Com mitt ee on /urisprudence:
734 C.M .C. resp ectin g writ This reso lutio n seek s to rear rang e Sec.
be tried .
ten notic e of with draw al 9£ elec tion to
e.
ensu
will
harm
no
that
It appe ars
n and sugg est a yes vote .
So we mov e adop tion of the reso lutio
Purposes indicated its conThe Com mitt ee on Poli cy and Gen eral
curr ence in the reco mme ndat ion.
Ado pted 5/6 vote .
FOR MER GRA ND SECR ETAR Y
PROP OSED PEN SION -WID OW

(25)

Purposes:
The Com mitt ee on Poli cy and Gen eral
to Mrs . Elsie Wils on, wido w
ents
paym
to
ive
Reso lutio n No. 25, relat
d Secr etar y Lloy d E. Wils on.
of Past Gra nd Mas ter and form er Gran
Poli cy and Gen eral Purp oses .
has been refe rred to your Com mitt ee on
ful to you r cons ider ation of
help
A brie f state men t of facts may be
this reso lutio n.
plan for its emp loye es whic h
This gran d body inau gura ted a pens ion
. It acco mpli shed this by ente ring
beca me oper ative on Janu ary l. 1955
The agre eme nt cont ains all the
into a trus t agre eme nt with a bank .
cont ribu tion by the Gra nd Lod ge
term s of the plan inclu ding the rate s of
emp loye es. It prov ides whe n an
and dedu ctio ns from the sala ries of

GRA ND LODGE OF CAL IFO

320

PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

he sha ll
for a pen sion and wh at amo unt
emp loy ee sha ll bec ome eligible
out on an actu aria l bas is.
pen receive. The se wer e all wor ked
y can not by its acti on cre ate a
Yo u will app rec iate tha t this bod
the
er
und
ow
wid
men t of benefits to his
e
vid
sion for an emp loy ee or the pay
pro
not
s
doe
t
trac
e in whi ch the con
trus t agr eem ent in any inst anc
ther efo r.
il nex t
r Wi lso n. had he live d unt
Un der the agr eem ent Bro the
.
sion
ome eligible to reti re on a pen
ier
Jan uar y 1, I 965. wou ld hav e bec
earl
an
at
ts
bili ty benefit pay men
Pro visi on was mad e for disa
ty.
bili
disa
of
e
aus
bec
ent was nec ess ary
t
dat e and diff eren t rate . if reti rem
men
nge
arra
the
der
Un
1.
er 2, 196
Bro the r Wi lso n die d on Nov emb
l
unti
,
and twe nty-eig ht day s lon ger
dismad e. had he live d one mo nth
ly
nth
e become elig ible to receive mo
Jan uar y I, 1962, he wou ld hav
she wou ld
rea fter pre dec eas ed his wif e,
abil ity pay men ts and , if he the
1.05 per mo nth .
hav e bee n eligible to rece ive $25
its own
wit h pen sion s, this bod y, by
as
,
that
You will app rec iate
bili ty
disa
the
of
stee
Tru
the
on the par t of
acti on can not cre ate a liab ility
pay men ts.
rest of
und erst and why . in the inte
Fro m the fore goi ng you will
bef ore
25
.
No
tion
rem ove d from Res olu
acc ura cy, nin e wo rds sho uld be
the
ing
dur
sion
pen
a
se wor ds are : "as
rge
we vot e upo n the pro pos al. The
Geo
r
the
Bro
on.
luti
reso
pon ent of the
rem ain der of her life ." If the pro
the
stri kin g of tho se nin e wor ds.
the
to
t
sen
con
ds
A. Jurg ens , will
fun
the
lved tha t the re be pai d from
rem ain der will rea d: "Be it reso
n."
lso
Wi
4.05 per mo nth to Els ie M.
of Gra nd Lod ge the sum of $25
you . if
Com mit tee inq uire thro ugh
our
Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l. may
ds?
wor
e
nin
the
of
to the elim inat ion
Bro the r Jur gen s will con sen t
ado ps
end
mm
reco
tee
mit
you r Com
Wi th the nin e wo rds elim inat ed,
ted
sen
pre
eva lua tion of the info rma tion
tion. We do so bec aus e of an
to us.
end ed
rece nt yea rs this bod y has ext
We are also min dfu l tha t in
nd
Gra
er
form
a
of
fun ds to the wid ow
financial assi stan ce from its
s.
ster
Ma
nd
of Pas t Gra
Sec reta ry and to sev era l wid ows
ge the
from the fun ds of Gra nd Lod
d
pai
be
re
the
t
We mo ve tha
ie M. Wi lso n.
sum of $254.05 per mo nth to Els
The Com mit tee on Finance:
ion
Com mit tee on Fin anc e Res olut
The re has bee n refe rred to the
the
ds
fun
its
from
Gra nd Lod ge to pay
yd
No. 25 which see ks to aut hor ize
Llo
of
ow
wid
g
ivin
ie Wi lso n, the surv
sum of $254.05 per mo nth to Els
.
nde d for her
E. Wi lso n, as the pen sion inte
Sec reta ry
fact s rela ting to Pas t Gra nd
the
es
stat
on
Th e reso luti
1961 , he
r.
and are cor rect . In Oct obe
Wi lso n's reti rem ent and dea th.
irem ent
Ret
our
ity Ret irem ent Cla use of
Pla n
cho se to reti re und er the Dis abil
the
e
sinc
ns
utio
mad e reg ula r con trib
of
Inc ome Pla n to whi ch he had
sion
pen
d
uce
red
the
ge. He elec ted
was first ado pte d by Gra nd Lod

RNI A

321

sion wou ld
t opt ion pro vid ed tha t the pen
$254.05 per mo nth bec aus e tha
bec ome
viv ed him . All of this was to
con tinu e to his wif e if she sur
1961.
2,
er
emb
die d ver y sud den ly on Nov
effective Jan uar y 1, 1962. He
the
to
r
prio
s
day
ht
nth and twe nty eig
par
Bec aus e of his dea th one mo
or
sion
pen
this
g
ivin
bar red from rece
effective date , his wid ow was
ome Pla n.
tici pati ng in the Ret irem ent Inc
by the
efiting from the income ear ned
ben
is
r.
eve
how
ge.
Gra nd Lod
set up
was
ch
whi
n's pas t serv ice cre dits
cap ital fun d for Bro the r Wi lso
.
sion
e of fun din g this pen
in the first plac e for the pur pos
sum of
sho uld be und erst ood tha t this
it
s
For the abo ve rea son
allo wan
be
ll
sha
ed
rov
app
sion . and if
ria$251.05 per mo nth is not a pen
rop
app
fun ds and bud get ed und er the
anc e pai d from Gra nd Lod ge
tion for Gra nd Ma ster 's Relief.
just ice
ch exis ts in this cas e, simple
In view of the rea l nee d whi
nd
Gra
of
s
ber
mem
rts and minds of the
ed
wou ld seem to impel the hea
serv
who
man
the
of
ow
ce for the wid
Lod ge to pro vid e this allo wan
us lon g and well.
effective
of Res olu tion No. 25 wit h an
We reco mm end the ado ptio n
acti on
dat e of Nov emb er I, 1964.
ent of the reso luti on, and by
Wi th the con sen t of the pro pon
icy
Pol
on
tee
mit
Com
the
ent pro pos ed by
of Gra nd Lod ge. the ame ndm
pte d.
and Gen era l Pur pos es was ado
d.
pte
ado
on
luti
Am end ed reso
TO HOL D OFF ICE IN A
APP ROV AL FOR A MA SON
REQ UIR E INS PEC TOR AL
MEM BER SHI P
IC
BAS ED ON MA SON
YOU TH ORG ANI ZAT ION

.

(26 )

Gen era l Purposes:
The Com mit tee on Policy and
olu tion
Gen era l Pur pos es to whi ch Res
Th e Com mit tee on Pol icy and
ewi th :
No. 26 was refe rred rep orts her
er M ake awa y from Lod ges and oth
t<J
to
es
Thi s reso luti on pro pos
the ir
from
ct
sele
to
t
righ
org ani zati ons the
ves t
son ic Bod ies spo nso ring you th
ld
ce in suc h org ani zati ons . and wou
mem ber ship Ma son s to hol d offi
mit
per
to
t
ont roll ed and unl imi ted righ
in the sev eral Ins pec tors the unc
at thei r pleasur e.
occ upa ncy of suc h offices onl y
Ins pec n of add ing to the bur den s of
stio
Qu ite asid e from any que
rict ion
rest
ed
pos
pro
the
stro ng belief tha t
usti tors . this Com mit tee is of the
unj
h
bot
is
es
viti
acti
th
nso ring you
e of
upo n Ma son ic org ani zati ons spo
abl
cap
nso ring org ani zati ons are qui te
to
fied and und esir able . Suc h spo
free
ain
r members and sho uld rem
sup erv isin g the acti viti es of thei
do so.
reso luti on but urg e a no vote.
We move the ado ptio n of the
The Com mit tee on Ritu al:
olu tion
whi ch has bee n pre sen ted Res
The Com mit tee on Ritu al to
No. 26 rep orts her ewi th:

GR AN D LODGE OP CA

322

PRO CEE DIN GS OF TH

E

yea rs, bee n ask ed
isd icti on hav e, for ma ny
Th e Ins pec tor s of the Jur
of the dem and s
se
and responsibilities. Be cau
to obt ain goo d
to ass um e gre ate r bu rde ns
lt
ficu
dif
rea sin gly mo re
inc
is
it
e,
tim
ir
the
n
ma de upo
se wh o leave the Co rps .
lea der s in the pla ce of tho
ich cou ld
the Ins pec tor a bur den wh
on
ce
pla
uld
wo
n
tio
olu
Th is res
rk, as defined in
by the Ins pec tor . Hi s wo
ne
bor
be
,
not
uld
sho
not , and
tric t and the Gr and
wit h the Lo dge s in his Dis
do
to
ly
on
has
,
161
n
tio
Sec
s to spo nso r Ch apper mi ssion gra nte d Lo dge
Lo dge of Ca lifo rni a. Th e
ass um ed no rig ht
lay by thi s Gr and Lo dge
the Co unc il of
ter s of the Or der of De Mo
on
sit
dge to dic tat e wh o sha ll
ced in thi s
pla
on the par t of Gr an d Lo
be
uld
Ins pec tor sho
no
and
.
lay
Mo
De
of
Ch apt ers
no vot e.
pos itio n.
the res olu tio n bu t urg e a
W e mo ve the ado pti on of
ren ce in the
lay ind ica ted its con cur
Mo
De
on
e
itte
mm
Co
e
Th
rec om me nda tio n.
the resolution .
A ma jor ity vot ed aga ins t
tLs
S AN D RA 1N oow G11
ON Jos 's DA UG HT ER
EE
TT
MI
CoM
L
CIA
SPE

(30 )
and General Purposes:
Th e Co mm itte e on Po lic y
mittee be cre ate d
es tha t a new spe cia l com
Re sol uti on No . 30 pro pos
Job 's Da ug hte rs
of
r
Int ern ati ona l Or de
the
th
bo
h
wit
son
liai
direction of
to ma int ain
ow for Gir ls and un der the
inb
Ra
of
r
de
Or
l
ona
ati
an d Int ern
ssa ge: "I str ong ly
the Gr an d Ma ste r.
ed las t Mo nd ay in his me
Gr an d Ma ste r He ald ·s tat
ee M aso nic you th
Ma ste r to ma ke the se thr
urg e the incoming Gr and
m for the ens uin g
par t of his ove r-a ll pro gra
org ani zat ion s an int egr al
.
lay
lud es Or de r of De Mo
Ma son ic Ye ar" -w hic h inc
con cur s on the
y and Ge ner al Pu rpo ses
lic
Po
on
e
itte
mm
Co
ur
Yo
. W e do feel, how ivi ty in our yo uth gro ups
nee d for mo re Ma son ic act
n pro gra m.
ste r can bes t form his ow
eve r, tha t the Gr and Ma
sion be app oin ted
de tha t a spe cia l commis
A pro pos al has bee n ma
rep ort a t the nex t
to
Gr and Lo dge
of
ure
uct
str
ttee
mi
com
to stu dy the
sho uld no t be
Co mm uni cat ion .
on this rec om me nda tio n
It is ou r belief tha t act ion
ref err ed to the comion and tha t it sho uld be
tak en at thi s Co mm uni cat
the nex t An nu al
for stu dy, and rep ort to
mission ref err ed to abo ve
so recommend.
Co mm uni cat ion , and we
ence:
Th e Co mm itte e on Jurisprud dir ect the Gr and Ma ste r to app oin t a
to
ks
Th is res olu tio n see
ion s and are in
Sp eci al Committee.
rk of the se tw o org ani zat
W e com me nd the fine wo
thi s resolution.
acc ord wit h the int ent of
s:
n for the following rea son
W e opp ose this res olu tio

LIF OR NIA

323

Co mm itte es.
hor ity to app oin t Sp eci al
aut
has
r
ste
Ma
d
an
Gr
e
1. Th
r ma y be dis oin ted by a Gr and Ma ste
2. Sp eci al Co mm itte es app
itte es est abmm
Co
al
a Gr and Ma ste r. Sp eci
of Gr and
ion
act
con tin ued at an y time by
by
ued
onl y be discon tin
can
dge
Lo
d
an
Gr
by
lish ed
Lo dg e.
's Da ug hte rs
ed by any req ues t from Job
riz
app
n
bee
not
e
hav
e
3. W
int erc ede in the ir affairs.
e.
nor the Ra inb ow Gir ls to
res olu tio n bu t urg e a no vot
W e move ado pti on of the
.
n
tio
olu
the res
A ma jor ity voted aga ins t
A. M.
DG E No . 799, F. &
CH AN GIN G NA ME OF

BA Y CL AIR E VI STA

1.o

( 31 )
an d Ge ner al Pu rpo ses:
Th e Committeie on Po lic y
dge No . 799,
ion , Ba y Cla ire Vi sta Lo
At the 1963 Co mm uni cat
y an d Ge ner al
lic
Po
Ch art ers and the
the
of
n
tio
ges
sug
the
at
.,
mi t sel ect ion of
F. & A. M
rew the ir res olu tio n to per
thd
wi
.
es
itte
mm
Co
ses
Pu rpo
to the Co mm itte es.
a nam e more acc ept abl e
ire Vi sta Lo dge
tha t the nam e of Ba y Cla
ses
po
pro
31
.
No
on
uti
Re sol
, F . & A. M .
mo nt Me sa Lo dge No. 799
ire
Cla
to
ed
ng
cha
be
799
No .
as sub mi tte d be
nds tha t the new nam e
Th is Co mm itte e rec om me
app rov ed.
a yes vote.
resolution and rec om me nd
W e move ado pti on of the
:
Th e Co mm itte e on Charters
ire Vi sta Lo dge
nge the nam e of Ba y Cla
cha
to
31
.
Resol uti on No
ref err ed to the
n
sa Lo dge No . 799 has bee
com mu nit y of
No . 799 to Cla ir"emo nt Me
the
ves
dge pri ma rily ser
Lo
e
Th
.
ers
art
Ch
on
e
Co mm itte
urb of Sa n Die go.
Cla ire mo nt, wh ich is a sub
Sec . 301 sta tes
Ca lifo rni a Ma son ic Co de,
the
Th e pro vis ion s of
wit h a nam e wh ich
gra nte d for a new Lo dge
tha t no dis pen sat ion can be
." Th e cle ar pur~
per son or Ch art ere d Lo dge
is " the nam e of an y living
dge s, and eve n a
Lo
in the nam es of
ion
fus
con
t
ven
pre
to
is
s
pos e of thi
ide d (A nn ota tio n "b ").
sim ila r nam e is to be avo
ext end ed to any
sam e principle mu st be
Ou r opi nio n is tha t the
ere d Lodges.
cha nge of nam es in Ch art
kno wn as Clare~
ead y a Ch art ere d Lo dge
W e note tha t the re is alr
ate
im ly thi rty miles
ate d at Cla rem ont , app rox
mo nt Lo dge No . 436 loc
eas t of Los An gel es.
the difference in
Ch art ers Co mm itte e tha t
It is the opinion of the
ven t con fusion
pre
l
of the wo rd "M esa " wil
es wo uld no t
spelling and the add itio n
nam
of
e
ng
tha t thi s cha
and
,
ure
fut
the
in
g
sin
from ari
Ca lifo rni a Ma son ic Co de.
sed.
violate Sec tio n 301 of the
tha t Re sol uti on 31 be pas
We . the ref ore . rec om me nd
Ad opt ed.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
324

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.C.
FUNCTIONAL AMENDMENTS C.M
)
31
(
N
1963 RESOLUTIO
eral Purposes:
The Com mit tee on Pol icy and Gen
era l
Com mit tee on Pol icy and Gen
The re has bee n refe rred to the
ge
Lod
nd
Gra
tion No. 31 pre sen ted to
tion
Pur pos es tha t por tion of Res olu
Sec
t
tha
ting
ues
in Oct obe r. 1963, req
at its An nua l Com mu nic atio n
mo nial for
rea ds as foll ows : "Th e cere
It
d.
137 a C.M .C. be rep eale
plac ing
for
ed
form
per
be
ic and can not
191 7
lay ing cor ner ston es is sym bol
in
g
mad e by Gra nd Ma ster Keeslin
a 'tab let' ." Thi s dec isio n was
Lod ge in tha t yea r.
and was app rov ed by Gra nd
use d
pte d by Gra nd Lod ge, and
The cor ner ston e cer emo ny ado
lic
pub
the layi ng of cor ner ston es for
the
exte nsiv ely ove r the yea rs for
n
bee
has
itio n to Ma son ic bui ldin gs.
bui ldin gs and sch ool s, in add
and from
Fra tern ity- fro m its mem ber s
sou rce of much goo d will for the
the par t
on
ire
des
s to be an incr eas ing
the public at larg e. The re app ear
ston e
ner
cor
the
form
per
ic Fra tern ity to
of pub lic officials for the Ma son
. a
cere mo ny.
ota tion s to Sec tion 137 C.M .C.
As has bee n poi nte d out in ann
d
alle
so-c
sup por ting ston e and the
g.
cor ner ston e nee d not be a true
ldin
bui
a
of
l
the side of an out er wal
cor ner ston e may be inse rted into
insi de
are now bei ng pla ced in wal ls
es
ston
ner
ldSto nes des ign ated as cor
bui
side
out
n
eve
and
cen tral cou rts,
om
pub lic bui ldin gs; suc h as foyers,
bec
also
is
It
.
per
pro
g
ldin
d to the bui
the
e
ing s whe re the y are not atta che
hav
to
the case of public bui ldin g s.
ing a fair ly com mon pra ctic e. in
che d to
of a met al or ston e pla que atta
so-c alle d cor ner ston e in the form
of a bui ldin g wal l.
or inse rted in the upp er por tion
essa ry.
to suc h req ues ts and , whe n nec
Gra nd Lod ge has resp ond ed
e. It
mad
n
bee
e
hav
ner ston e plau sible
omslig ht cha nge s to mak e the cor
acc
the
by
ry
son
ema
acc ruin g to Fre
wou ld app ear tha t the goo d will
was
e
al to tha t wh ere a true cor ner ston
mo dati on ren der ed has been equ
laid .
thro ugh
tinu e its serv ice to the pub lic
If Gra nd Lod ge des ires to con
que s on
pla
of
ing
ner ston es. and the plac
137a
the med ium of the lay ing of cor
tion
Sec
of
eal
mm end s the rep
par e
occ asio n, you r Com mit tee reco
pre
to
ted
ruc
inst
be
r
Gra nd Lec ture
so
C.M .C. and s ugg ests tha t the
We
ry.
d as an alte rna te whe n nec essa
s
end
a suit able cer emo ny to be use
mm
reco
icy and Gen era l Pur pos es
move and the Com mit tee on Pol
a yes vot e.
:
The Com mit tee on Jurisprudence Sec. 137 -a C.M .C. whi ch rea ds:
of
eal
rep
ks
Thi s reso luti on see
not
ner ston es is sym bol ic and can
"Th e cere mo nial for lay ing cor
let' ."
be per form ed for plac ing a 'tab
g and
ston es is the most out stan din
ner
cor
ng
layi
for
Th e cer emo ny
ed.
cern
con
ecti on as far as the public is
imp orta nt cer emo ny in our coll

325

bol ic to
of cor ner ston es but is not sym
It is sym bol ic of the lon g hist ory
l not
wil
It
etc.
s
que
d for tab lets or pla
the ext ent tha t it may be use
ldin g
bui
a
to
et
tabl
a
ng
use in atta chi
uld
resp ond to such pur pos es. Its
sho
tion is still val id and cor rect and
wou ld pro ve ridiculous. The sec
stan d.
a 5/ 6
last yea r but failed to receive
The reso luti on was pre sen ted
rati on
side
con
her
furt
vote. Cod e req uire s
vot e but did receive a maj orit y
783 C.M .C. ).
this yea r and a 2/ 3 vot e. (Se c.
luti on but urg e a no vote.
reso
the
of
n
We mov e ado ptio
.C. was rep eale d.
By a 2/ 3 vot e Sec tion 137 a C.M
Pur mit tee on Pol icy and Gen era l
The reco mm end atio n of the Com
cere
e
abl
r be inst ruc ted to pre par e a suit
of
pos es tha t the Gra nd Lec ture
ing
plac
the
rna te whe n nec ess ary in
mo ny to be use d as an alte
was app rov ed by Gra nd Lod ge.
es
pla que s in lieu of cor ner ston
EMERGENT RESOLUTION
T TO SECTION 174 -C. M.C.
MEN
AMEND
ers:
The Com mit tee on Pay of M emb
ows:
the C.M .C. be ame nde d as foll
of
174
tion
Sec
t
Res olv ed tha
milethe
d
rd Ass ocia tion . dele te "an
In line Eig ht ( 8) afte r the wo
from
d
ine
erm
det
te of Haw aii sha ll be
ng:
age from poi nts wit hin the Sta
owi
foll
the
rt
inse
f
. and in lieu the reo
ll
pub lish ed rec ords of Air Lin es"
sha
aii
Haw
of
te
Sta
the
bers from
"M ilea ge com pen sati on of mem
air
trip
nd
cur ren t pub lish ed first clas s rou
be allo wed on the bas is of the
Fra nSan
to
lu
olu
Hon
from
s.
line
or air
rate . of reg ula rly sch edu led maj
ary ."
ess
nec
n
to and from Hon olu lu . whe
cisco. plus inte r.is lan d air fare
The Com mit tee on Financ e:
of the
this Com mit tee the reso luti on
The re has bee n refe rred to
in
.C.
C.M
174
ers to am end Sec tion
e
eag
Com mit tee on Pay of Me mb
mil
for
is
bas
specifically stat e the
lan gua ge whi ch wou ld mor e
aii.
the Sta te of Haw
com pen sati on to mem ber s from
lt from
e in com pen sati on wou ld resu
eas
incr
no
t
tha
We und erst and
this cha nge .
reso luti on.
We reco mm end a ppr ova l of the
Ad opt ed 5/ 6 vot e.

At 5 :00 p.m. Gra nd Lod ge was

call ed off until 7:3 0 p.m.

GRANO LODGE OF CAL IFO
PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

326

day , Oc
EV EN IN G SE SS IO N- Th urs

tob er 15, 196 4

ste r pre wa s called on, the Gra nd Ma
At 7:3 0 p.m. Gra nd Lod ge
in.
pla
Cha
nd
ive red by the Gra
sid ing . Th e inv oca tion wa s del

RE PO RT OF CO MM ITT EE
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra

ON RI TU AL

nd Lod ge F. & A. M. of Califor

FLA G PRE SEN TAT ION EAC

nia:

H STA TED ME ETI NG

(3)

olu tion
wh ich has bee n pre sen ted Res
Th e Com mit tee on Rit ual to
at eac h
No . 3 rep orts her ewi th:
al pre sen tati on of the Fla g
Res olu tion s to req uire the form
Spe cia l
h
eac
at
.
and , in some ins tan ces
ula rly
Sta ted Me etin g of the Lod ge
reg
as
and
te reg ula rly intr odu ced
Me etin g as well. hav e bee n qui
reje cte d.
tha t eac h
w of the Rit ual Com mit tee
It has bee n the con sist ent vie
the law .
in
h
fort
set
ge wit hin the limits
Ma ste r sho uld gov ern his Lod
form al
the
ugh
thro
go
ste r per mit s him to
Ma
h
eac
en
giv
e
tud
lati
e
Th
cial . Th e
meeting. eith er Sta ted or Spe
pre sen tati on of the Fla g at any
ste r can Ma
not hin g tha t the ind ivid ual
pre sen t resolution acc om plis hes
to ma ke
son
rea
his ow n Lod ge. We see no
not do at his ow n volition in
t per mis sive rule.
a req uire me nt out of the pre sen
for ma nce
uld be per fun cto ry in the per
Thi s is not to say tha t we sho
Fla g.
our
be don e to our Co unt ry and
ars ,
of tho se hon ors wh ich sho uld
Alt
ge
Lod
d to pre sen t the Fla g at our
the
in
Ma ste rs sho uld be enc our age
ip
ersh
mb
me
pre sen ted to lea d the
and even wh en not for ma lly
nin g the Lod ge.
Ple dge of All egi anc e upo n ope
vot e.
the reso luti on but urg e a no
of
n
ptio
We move the ado
.
ted
mit
Res pec tful ly sub
DON ALD G. CAM PBE LL
CLA RE B. CAM PBE LL
KA HN
AR THU R
ROB ERT A. CRI GLE R

J.

HAR OLD N. RIC HAR DS
WA LLA CE H . FIS KE
BEN SOR REL LS

w.

Gen era l Pur pos es
Th e Com mit tee on Pol icy and
.
cur ren ce in the rec om me nda tion
resolution.
A ma jori ty vot ed aga ins t the

ind ica ted its con -

RNI A

ON FIN AN CE
RE PO RT OF CO MM ITT EE& A. M. of California:

327

nd Lod ge F.
of the
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra
me nt of our Cod e, an aud it
ing
In acc ord anc e wit h the req uire
end
r
yea
al
fisc
the
its age nci es for
n
bee
e
finances of Gra nd Lod ge and
hav
it
aud
the
of
ies
ple ted . Cop
the
t
Jun e 30, 1964. has bee n com
tha
nion
this Com mit tee. It is our opi
exa min ed by all members of
ge.
Lod
nd
Gra
of
n
itio
pos
al
financi
rep orts reflect acc ura tely the
nd Lod ge
Gra
of
e
era tion tota l rev enu
For the fiscal yea r und er con sid
enu e of
rev
net
ing
leav
e wa s $38 0,223.00,
wa s $388,914.00. Tot al exp ens
$8.691.00.
REP ORT
GRA ND TRE ASU RER 'S
rred to and exa min ed by this
refe
s
wa
Th e Gra nd Tre asu rer 's Rep ort
aud it and
ncial item s in acc ord wit h the
Com mit tee. We find all fina
rec om me nd app rov al.
ORT
GRA ND SEC RET ARY 'S REP
t por tion of the Gra nd
tha
Com mit tee
Th ere was refe rred to this
of the per
he rec om me nds the remission
Sec reta ry's Rep ort in wh ich
rov al.
app
nd
disp ens atio n. We rec om me
cap ita tax for a Lod ge und er
ME ME ORI AL TEM PLE
CAL IFO RNI A MA SON IC
nia
Rep ort of the Tru stee s, Cal ifor
the
of
We rec om me nd app rov al
Ma son ic Me mo rial Tem ple .
RIA TIO NS
OV ER BUD GET ED APP ROP
EXC ESS EXP END ITU RES
the sec ond ary
h
wit
r.
ste
Gra nd Ma
Du ring the las t fiscal yea r the
e, app rov ed
anc
Fin
on
tee
of the Com mit
app rov al of the Ch airm an
get ed items.
.00 in excess of cer tain bud
app rop riat ion s tota llin g $2, 915
al of this
rov
the aud it. We rec om me nd app
Th ese item s are det aile d in
act ion by the Grand Ma ste r.
N"
"CA LIF ORN IA FRE EM ASO
nia Freemason sho wed
ifor
Cal
of
tion
lica
pub
the
In the last fiscal yea r
cha rge d again1St the
s
wa
s
,334.00. Thi
a net ope rati ng deficit of $12
al policy
believe tha t this is pro per fisc
erv e."
rev enu e of Gra nd Lod ge. We
Res
son
icit to "Ca lifo rni a Freema
pai d
rath er than cha rgin g this def
ine
gaz
ma
the
aga ins t sub scr ipti ons for
h
suc
Thi s res erv e has bee n set up
has
ge
Lod
nd
t inta ct as long as Gra
0.
0.0
,40
in adv anc e and sho uld be kep
$67
at
ility
liab
this
we calc ula te
a liability. As of Jun e 30 last
erv e $40 ,10 9.0 0.
res
the
in
e
aga ins t wh ich we hav
FEE S
LAG ERS EN- ATT OR NEY
EST ATE OF HA ZEL E.
ll of the Est ate
Wi
the
er
und
iary
benefic
In 1957 Gra nd Lod ge wa s a
te bec am e
ed. Th e settlem ent of the esta
liti gaof Ha zel S. Lag erse n, dec eas
ated
plic
com
oth er pro lon ged and
ste r
Ma
inv olv ed in a will con test and
nd
Gra
t
Pas
by
wa s rep res ent ed
ge
Lod
nd
Gra
ch
whi
in
tion
ons of the
of hi1S leg al efforts, the pro visi
He nry C. Cla usen. As a res ult
eiv
rec ed from
Lod ge wa s sus tain ed and we
will for the beq ues t to Gra nd
ital acc oun t
cap
sum has been pai d into the
the est ate $23,870.09, wh ich
serv ices in
his
for
9
use n's fee of $6 ,14 3.2
of Gra nd Lod ge. Bro the r Cla

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

this matter has not been paid. We recommend that the payment of this
fee be authorized and that it be charged to the capital account of Grand
Lodge, the net effect of which will be to take it out of the sum which
we received from the estate.

are $3.00 or higher. The average per capita for all forty nine jurisdictions
is $3.13 which compares with the per capita in California for the last
fi scal year of $3.35.

PER CAPITA SuRvEY-MAso N1c HoMES

In 1959 this Committee. in its report to you, reviewed the per capita
for the previous thirty years. We have brought these figures up-to-date
a nd think it timely to give you some comparisons, not only on the per
capita, but on increased costs as well during this thirty five year period.
Referring only to that portion of the annual per capita paid for the
support of the ordinary activities of Grand Lodge, which includes the
Homes. the low for this thirty five year period was 85 cents in 1946 and
1947. The high was $2.35 in 1963. The average for the period is $1.69.
It should be noted that the 85 cent low in 1946-47 included nothing
for the Homes. The Trustees had been able to build a surplus during
the preceding war years due to the restricted supply of all materials available for purchase.
Including the additional per capita voted from time to time for such
purposes as the University Clubhouses, our Centennial, the George
W ashing ton Ma~onic M emorial and, in recent years. our Memorial
T emple. the low total per capita \vas $1.00 in 1946 and the high was
$3.35 in 1963. The average for the period is $2.1 3.
Perhaps you would be interested in what it has cost per capitawise to
support the activities of Gra nd Lodge alone during this period , without
including the Homes or any of the special purposes. From 1929 to 1936
inclusive the annual per capita was 50 cents, which is the Constitutional
provision. In succeeding years additional per capitas for the support of
Grand Lodge have been voted. The total for Grand Lodge in 1963.
and the high for the thirty five year period, was $1.35. The average per
capita for the period is 92 cents. so that the figure for 1963 is a n
increase of 43 cents over the average. or 46.7 %.
As stated, the total per capita for the last fiscal year was $3.35. This
is made up of $1.00 for the Memorial T emple. $1.00 for the Homes.
and $1.35 for the expenses of Grand Lodge. Deducting the $1.00 for
the Memorial Temple. the remainder of $2.35 for the ordinary activities
o f Grand Lodge is 66 cents above the thirty five year average of $1.69.
or 39.4 % .
We have made a survey of the per capita tax in each of the forty
nine Grand Lodge jurisdictions in the United States. The result is very
enlightening and is of interest to all of us.
Fifteen jurisdictions have a per capita higher than California, ranging
from $3.40 to $8.75. There are three with the low per capita of $1.50 and
these three do not maintain Homes. The remaining thirty one jurisdictions have per capita ranging from $2.00 to $3.35, of which almost half

329

We have also made a survey of assessments for Masonic Homes
or other for ms of charity. Of the forty nine jurisdictions. thirty five
include in their per capita an a mount for •s upport of Masonic charity.
Of these thirty-five. twenty eight maintain homes for adults or children ,
or both. The am ount of assessment ranges from 20 cents to a high of
$6.25. The average for the thirty five jurisdictions is $1. 50. which compares with $1.00 in California for our H omes for the last fiscal year.
You can draw your own conclusion, but it seems a ppropriate at
this point to emphasize that we in California a re on the middle ground
in the a rea of what we pay to support our H omes a nd Grand Lodge.
In view of our comparative size, the wide scope of the Grand Lodge
program. and the acknowledged leadership which California shares in
the M asonic W orld , we think you can take some satisfaction in the
fact that we support this at a compartively reasonable cost.
A statistical survey recently made shows that the 1939 dollar is
today worth 40 cents. Stated another way, this simply mea ns that in the
last twenty five years the cost of goods and services which your dollar
can buy has more than doubled-much more.
If you will refer to the figures on per capita for the period which we
surveyed above, you will reca ll that the per capita for ordinary expenses
of Grand Lodge-which includes the Home assessment-has increased
only 39.4% over.the average for the period. We have been able to hold
down this increase only beca use the number of members paying the per
capita has grown substantially in this twen ty five year period.
This membe rship growth has tapered off a lar mingly in the last several
years, however. and further complicates our problem of bala ncing the
budget, unless this trend is reversed.
The most striking comparison we can give you in reference to per
capita versus expense in this period has to do with the Homes. In 1939
total expense for operating the Homes was $272.958.00. In 1963 this
figure was $1 .489,085.00. an increase of 445 %-. By comparison your per
capita for the H omes in 1939 was 90 cents. In 1963 it was $1 .00. an
increase o f 11 %. There are two fundamental reasons why you have
not had to match these increased costs with a corresponding per capita
increase. The first, and main rea,s on is the income from the Endowment
Fund which has grown because of your gifts. All this income is used
to support the H omes. The second is because of the foresight of the
Trustees in building an unappropriated reserve out of which operating
deficits have been paid from time to time, and for the last three years
total deficits in excess of $800.000.00. This has reduced the reserve

GRANO LOD GE OP CAL IFOR

331

N IA

PRO CEE DIN GS OP THE

330

owsho w an ope rati ng deficit. The End
sub stan tial ly and the Hom es still
cit.
defi
far sho rt of mak ing up the
men t Fun d income incr ea·se falls
con clus ion that , if you pro pos e
e, t~erefore, reac h the ines cap able
to pay a
pre sen t stan dar d, you will hav e
t~ mam tam th~ Hom es on the
ip on
dsh
har
a
k
kno w that this will wor
hig her per cap ita to do so. We
that
t
ges
sug
in
aga
t scal e of due s. We
som e of our Lod ges on the cur ren
the
of
t
ligh
the
in
fee
s
s you r due
you review you r .finances vis- a-vi
give
ry,
essa
nec
re
whe
,
and
the doll ar
dep reci ated buy ing pow er of
ease.
incr
s
due
a
to
on
rati
side
con
seri ous
the day whe n the deb t on this
We are all looking forw ard to
of the
in full and you will be reli eve d
Me mor ial Tem ple will be paid
ple
Tem
the
e the financial rep ort of
$1 .00 asse ssm ent. You can exa min
th
wor
is
it
but
ve,
tha t the day will arri
Cor por atio n and esti mat e whe n
ge
Lod
ry
eve
if
ner
tha t day much soo
repe atin g that we wou ld reac h
up on that Me rit Roll Tab let.
e
nam
its
had
in this jurisdiction
er
nce s with the P resi den t and oth
We hav e had ·s eve ral con fere
e
nsiv
exte
an
e
mad
e
Tru stee s and hav
mem bers of the Hom es Boa rd of
and
rt
repo
it
aud
the
in
d
ecte
ition as refl
exa min atio n of thei r financial pos
hav e
The Boa rd and this Com mit tee
get.
Bud
1-65
196
d
the pro pos ed
ease
incr
be
per cap ita for the Hom es
con clud ed to reco mm end that the
w
sho
will
es
Hom
with this incr ea·s e the
50 cen ts to a tota l of $1.50. Eve n
ed
$500.000.00 bas ed on the pro pos
of
ess
an ope rati ng deficit in exc
ts
cen
50
of
ease
incr
this
ther efor e. tha t
bud get for the Hom es. We feel. pro pos ed .
is the minimum whi ch sho uld be
on:
We offer the following reso luti
$1.50 per cap ita be levied for the
of
RE SO LV ED : Tha t the sum
stee s
the pro cee ds to be paid to the Tru
fiscal yea r end ing Jun e 30. 1965, nia.
of the Ma son ic Hom es of Cal ifor

w_

BU DG ET 196 4-1 965
AoM INIS TRA TlV E AND OFF

ICE

··--·--·--·-----··············-·····$ 93.000.00
Sal arie s ·····:·······················------·-·····

Gra nd Lod ge Officesce Exp ens e ..... . 18.000.00
Tem ple Ope rati ons and Ma inte nan
3,000.00
........................................
Aud it ..........................................
.
.
......
250.00
......
......
..................
Gra nd Tre asu rer ........................
.
.
......
4,000.00
..............................
Pos tage and E xpr ess ............ ......
4.000.00
..............................:.....
Tel eph one and Tel egr aph ............
.
...
......
......
4,750.00
......
es
ent Tax
Soc ial Sec urit y and Une mploym
.
...
......
500.00
.................. ............
Inv estm ent Cou nse l ..................
Ret irem ent Pen sion Pla n4,000.00
..............................
Gra nd Lod ge Office Em ploy ees

Ret irem ent Pen sion Pla nees ..........................$
Gra nd Lod ge Age ncies Em ploy
l Benefits ···--······ ···--··-···
Gra nd Lod ge Em ploy ees Me dica ..................................
......
......
......
Pay roll Ser vice Pla n ......

3,500.00
2,400.00
125.00

······ -·-····--···-··········--·$137.525.0 0
TO TA L ··························-··· ·-···GEN ERA L EXP ENS E

00.00
...... .................................. $ 17,5
Ann ual Com mun icat ion ............
0.00
5.00
···············--····--····--··--··-·······--·
0
00.0
11,0
Con fere nce s ··-··--·········-· ······
.
.
ens e ........................
Gra nd Lod ge Officer's Tra vel Exp
.00
850
.
.....
......
r ............ ............
Gra nd Org ani st and Gra nd Tile
0
cell ane ous Exp ens e ... . 10,800.0
Mis
and
vel
Gra nd Ma ster 's Tra
0.00
1,80
.
......
...
....
......
......
e ......
Gra nd Ma ster 's Sec reta rial Exp ens
6,000.00
................................. .
......
ges
Lod
for
l
nse
Cou
ent
Inv estm
00.00
38.2
.
...................................
R epre sen tati ves ' Mil eag e ............
00.00
29,0
.
.....
..............................
Prin ting ..........................................
Ritualistic Exp ens e:
600 .00
........................... .
Gra nd Lec ture r ..............................
0.00
2,50
.
.....
......
......
......
ery
Insp ecto r's Apr ons a nd Sta tion
Ritu al Com mit tee and Insp ecto rs'
..................... . 13.500.0 0
Con fere nce and Tra vel Exp ens e
900 .00
................................... .
Ret irem ent Pay ..............................
0.00
4,50
··············-···--··-···-···-·········
0.00
6,00
Vet era n But ton s ··············-·········
.
...
......
......
......
......
............
Sup plie s and Mis cell ane ous ......
0
Insu ran ce:
Lod ges .................. 13,650.0
Wo rkm en's Com pen sati on for
0.00
3.20
.
.....
........................
Fid elit y Bon d ...... ........................
300.00
............ ................. .
......
......
......
......
......
Mis cell ane ous
0.00
2,70
.
.
......
......
......
......
............
Gra nd Lod ge Regalia ..................
ess
Rei mbu rse Ira W. Cob urn for exc
619 .88
...... ......................
exp ens e as Gra nd Ma ster ............
............ ............
TO TA L ....................................

AP PRO PRIAT!ON S

...... ..$168,619.88

0.00
...................................... $ 3,30
Act ivit ies Com mit tee ..................
0.00
1.80
.
...
........................ ......
Boa rd of Con trol ..............................
.00
750
.....
......
......
..................
Cha rter s Com mit tee ...... •...•............
0.00
1,50
.
.....
......
......
..................
Col umb ia Tem ple Com mit tee ......
6,650.00
..............................
tee
mit
Com
e
anc
erv
Obs
n
Con stit utio
500.00
......................................
DeM ola y Com mit tee ..................
09.0 0
13.5
.
.
........................ ............
Em plo yme nt Bur eau s ..................
00.00
17.0
.
.....
......
........................
End owm ent Boa rd ...... ..................
.00
500
.
.....
......
......
............ ......
His tory Com mit tee ...... ..................

332

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Committee on Masonic Education .................... ................ $ 2,000.00
Lodge Financing Committee ........................................... .
3,000.00
Memorial Temple- Campaign Expense .................... ... .
2.500.00
Committee on Public Schools ........................................... .
1.500.00
Boards of ReliefReimbursement for Sojourners ................................
None
Committee on Commercialism ........................ ..................
1.000.00
Sojourners Committee ................................................. .... .
3.000.00
University Clubhouses :
Berkeley ................. ....................................... ............ 21,350.00
Los Angeles ........................................ ...................... 24,485.00
Code Commission ............................................................. .
150.00
Grand Lodge Legal Expense ......................................... .
None
Investment Committee ........................................ .... ......... .
500.00
Relief Fund- Grand Master ........................... .................
2.500.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries .................... ..............
4,670.00
Committee on Masonic Information ............................... .
1,500.00
Library Commission ......................................................... .
950.00
Committee on Old Masonic Hall-Los Angeles ............
1.000.00
TOT AL ........................................................... ......... $115.614.00
RECAPITULATION
Administrat ive and Office ................................................ $1 37,525.00
General Expense ........................................ ...................... 168.619.88
Appropriati ons .................................................................. 115,614 .00
GRAND TOTAL ........................................ ..... .. ..... $421 ,758.88
ESTIMATED INCOME
Dues from Lodges. Fees for Degrees. etc. .............. .. ...... $346,316.00
Income from Investments , Interest .................................. 35.500.00
Payment from Masonic HomesEndowment Board Expense .................................... I 7.000.00
Payment from Masonic HomesSecretarial and Other Services ................................ 24 ,000.00
TOTAL ESTIMAT ED INCOME ...... ................ $422,816.00
TOTAL APPROPR IATIONS AND
BUDGETE D ITEMS .................... ................ 421 .758.8b
ESTIMAT ED SURPLUS (DEFICIT ) ..............$
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Grand Lodge Miscellaneo us ............................................ $
Two Display Cabinets .................... .... ............................. .

1.057.12
6.500.00
5.750.00

TOTAL .................................................................... $ 12.250.00

333

PER CAPITA
Memorial Temple ......................................................................$
Masonic Homes ........................................................................
Grand Lodge Constitution al ....................................................
Grand Lodge Additional ........................................ ..................
Publication " California Freemason" ......................................

I .00
1.50
.50
.85
.25

TOTAL .................................................................... $

4.10

BUDGET

ONE QUARTE R-JULY 1, 1965, THROUG H
SEPTEMB ER 30, I 965
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE
Salaries .............................................................................. $ 30.000.00
Grand Lodge OfficesTemple Opera tion and Maintenanc e Expense ..... .
4,500.00
Grand Treasurer ............................................................. .
75.00
Postage and Express ........................................ ............... .
2.000.00
Telephone and T elegraph ................................................
1.200.00
Social Security and Unemploym ent Taxes ................... .
1.800.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits ................... .
600.00
Audit ............................................................ .................... . .
2,500.00
Payroll Service Plan ..........................................................
50.00
TOTAL .•..................................................................$ 42.725.00
G ENERAL EXPENSE
Annual Communication ....................................................8 8.000.00
Conferences ......................................................................
1.000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ..........................
3,000.00
Printing ............................................................................. .
5,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer .................... ......................................
150.00
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ..................... .
1.000.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ......................... .
800.00
Retirement Pay ................................................................. .
225.00
Veteran Buttons ............................................................... .
1.500.00
Supplies and Miscellaneo us ..............................................
l,100.00
Insurance :
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges ... ................ . 13.650.00
Miscellaneous ............................................................
500.00
TOTAL ....................................................................$ 35,925.00

334

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPROPRIATIONS

Relief Fund-Grand Master ............................................ $
900.00
Activities Committee ........................................................
2.000.00
Board of Control ................................................................
500.00
Charters Committee ......................................................... .
200.00
Columbia Temple Committee ...................... ................... .
350.00
Constitution O bservance Committee ............................. .
1.200.00
DeMolay Committee ....................................................... .
100.00
Endowment Board .......................................................... ..
2.000.00
History Committee ........................................................... .
350.00
750.00
Committee on M asonic Education ....................................
Lodge Financing Committee .......................... ............. .....
750.00
Memorial Temple-Campaign Expense ....................... .
500.00
Committee on Public Schools ......................................... .
400.00
Committee on Commercialis m ..........................................
300.00
Code Commission ............................................ ..................
50.00
Investment Committee ......................................................
150.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ............................... .
1.000.00
Sojourners Committee ......................................................
400.00
250.00
Committee on M asonic Information ............................... .
Library Commission ......................................................... .
300.00
Committee on Old Masonic Hall-Los Angeles ........... .
500.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

335

Lodge funds, we anticipate that revenues will suffice to cover all
expenses.
We, therefore. off er the following resolution:
RESOLVED : _T hat for the purpose of paying the expenses of Grand
Lodge, a per capita aggregating $4.10 be levied for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1965, divided as follows:
Constitutional per capita for
C alifornia M aso nic Memorial Temple .............................. $1.00
Masonic Homes ............................................................................ 1.50
C onstitutional per capita for G rand Lodge.............................. .50
Additional per capita for Grand Lodge ...................................... .85
Publication California Freemason ..................... ......................... .25
Total Per Capita .................................................................. $4.10
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
ALFRED H. N ICOLL
J AMES E. HAMMO ND

PAUL F . BALCK
FRED M . CLARK
MARK E. BROOME

E ach of the recommendations of the Committee on F inance was
separa tely adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was_ then adopted .

TOTAL .................................................................... $ 12,950.00
RECAPITULATION

Administrative and Office ................................................ $ 42.725.00
Genera l Expense .................................................. ............ 39,925.00
Appropriations .................................................................. 12,950.00
GRAND TOTAL ....................................................$ 91,600.00
We have followed our usual practice of conferring with all Chairmen of Committees and Boards who require appropriations. Several of
these have requested larger appropriations to implement expanded
programs which have the enthusiastic support of the Gra nd Master
and the Deputy Grand Master, and which have been outlined in reports
given to you. The Deputy Grand Master met with this Committee for
a discussion of his plans for the coming year. As a result of these conferences we have been able to reduce some appropriations but not enough
to offset the increases mentioned above.
Although the proposed budget is in balance, it leaves only a small
margin for emergencies which may and usually do arise. However, we
are not proposing any increase in the per capita for the support of Grand
Lodge. With the cooperation of everyone in the careful use of Grand

At 10:20 p.m. <?rand Lodge was called off until 10:00 a.m. Friday.

A
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI
336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GR AN D LO DG E

. OCTOBER 16. 196 4
MORNING SESSION-FRIDAY
Ma ste r pre wa s called on, the Gr and
At 10: 00 a.m. Gr and Lo dge
apl ain . Th e
Ch
and
Gr
ive red by the
del
s
wa
tion
oca
inv
e
Th
sid ing .
ns of Th urs day ,
ern oon and eve nin g ses sio
aft
ng.
rni
mo
the
of
s
ute
min
app rov ed.
Oc tob er 15, we re rea d and

CA LL IN G UP PR OC ED UR

ES

d dur ing the
ed, as listed. the gav els use
Th e Gr and Ma ste r specifi
ds the list
hea
dge
use d to call up Gr and Lo
sev era l ses sio ns. Th e gav el
s:
for eac h ses sio n as fol low
C. FISH, W. M.
eri al
Mo nda y a.m ......... HowARD
usi ng gav el pre sen ted by Imp
El Ce ntr o Lo dge No . 384.
28.
er
tob
Oc
o
ntr
Ce
eption in El
d
Va lle y Ma son s at the rec
use
o
Als
r.
ste
Ma
and
Gr
n as
1963, fol low ing his installatio We lls Va lle y No . 691, 609 th
ian
we re gavels pre sen ted by Ind
and
hts U.D ., Ch ico No . 111
Lig
eat
Gr
t,
tric
Dis
ic
Ma son
Lel and Sta nfo rd No . 784 .
M. JENKINS, W. M.
h Ma Mo nda y p.m ......... MARION
ng gav el pre sen ted by I 12t
Lassen Lod ge No . 149, usi
Tre e
a
ros
nde
Po
m wo od fro m the
sonic Dis tric t and ma de fro
use d
o
Als
.
sen
Las
ter
Bro the r Pe
gro win g at the graveside of
pa No .
Ox nar d No . 341 and An aca
we re gavels pre sen ted by
No rth
, Cla rem ont No . 436, and
710, San ta An a No . 241
Bu tte No . 230.
AVERY. S.W .
sen ted by tha t
Tu esd ay a.m .........RoYCE E.
No . 634. usi ng gav el pre
dge
Lo
k
Vic tor nil
3, and
em ony No vem ber 30, 196
Lod ge at a cor nersto ne cer
were
d
use
o
Als
the fo shua Tre e.
ma de from the wo od of
No .
g
Kin
al
ner
Mi
No . 128 and
gav els presen~ed by Visalia
on of
ste rs & Wa rde ns Ass oci ati
720, Gle ndo ra No . 404. Ma
ang e Gr ove No . 293.
Ea st Ba y Co unt ies. and Or
NALUA KAHl\PEA. W. M.
"M ilo "
Tu esd ay p.m ......... GEORGE
. usi ng gav el ma de from
Ho nol ulu Lo dge No . 409
use d
ge on Ma y 12. 1964. Als o
wo od pre sen ted by tha t Lod i Va lle y No . 806. No rw alk
Sim
u1ere gav els pre sen ted by
No . 209.
·s
vid
No . 315. and Kin g Da
OTTO DANE, W. M.
tha t
We dn esd ay a.m ...HENRY
. usi ng gav el pre sen ted by
o
San Sim eon Lo dge No . 196
Als
4.
196
28,
emony on Ma rch
s.
Lo dge at the cor ner sto ne cer
No
ts
tric
Dis
,
289
.
by Elsinore No
use d we re gav els pre sen ted

337

No .
d Ga vel by San Cle me nte
392 and 394 , Do ubl e He ade .
173
671. and Elk Gr ove No .
L. JOHNSTON, W. M.
cor ner Th urs day a.m ...... . HAROLD
usi ng gav el pre sen ted at
Hig hla nd Lo dge No . 748,
Ap ril
on
ool
Sch
ry
nta
enu e Ele me
sto ne cer em ony for Co le Av
420,
.
No
an
rm
Ke
by
ted
els pre sen
27, 1964. Als o use d we re gav
ges ,
Lod
, Thr ee San ta Barbara
Dis tric ts No s. 346 and 348
23
.
No
gin al gav el of Ma dis on
and all tha t is lef t of ori
des tro yed by fire.
McCULLOH, W. M.
Th urs day p.m ....... LEONA RD
by tha t
668. using gav el pre sen ted
San Go rgo nio Lo dge No .
Ma y
on
ple
the new Ma son ic Tem
teo
Lod ge at the ded ica tio n of
Ma
San
by
ted
gav els pre sen
via
3. 1964. Als o use d were
nro
Mo
and
,
812
.
on, Tri ad No
Co unt y Officers Ass oci ati
No . 308.
R E. McLEAN, P.M .
Th urs day eve nin g .... Ou vE
Ber kel ey Lo dge No . 363.
T. Hu oso N, W. M.
tha t
Fri day a.m ........... TOMMIE
, usi ng gav el pre sen ted by
o
Me nlo Pa rk Lo dge No . 651
Als
4.
196
14.
e
Jun
on
its Tem ple
Lo dge at the dedication of
te
Ga
by Gr izz ly No . 601 . Sil ver
use d we re gavels pre sen ted
660.
. and Ba ldw in Pa rk No .
No . 296. Tru cke e No . 200

AN NU AL EL EC TI ON

ive d for the
ced tha t the hou r had arr
Th e Gr and Ma ste r ann oun
the Sec tio ns
d
rea
ed the Gr and Sec ret ary to
An nua l Ele ctio n and dir ect the reto.
ng
of the Co nst itu tio n app lyi
. wa s ele cte d
ria m. C hico Lo dge No . 111
Me
ore
eod
Th
.
W
R.
e
Th
Gr and Ma ste r.
, wa s ele cte d
. Un ive rsit y Lo dge No . 394
Th e R. W. My ron E. Sm ith
De put y Gr and Ma ste r.
No . 61. wa s
Da yto n, Live Oa k Lo dge
Th e R. W. Lau ren ce E.
rde n.
ele cte d Sen ior Gr and Wa
, wa s ele cte d
Lib era l Ar ts Lo dge No . 677
ter
Th e W . Joh n F. Por .
Jun ior Gr and Wa rde n.
No . 370. wa s
Amity~Seal Ro ck Lo dge
Th e W. Pau l A. Pfl ueg er.
ele cte d Gr and Treasu rer .
r, Ply mo uth
Siems. Pa st Gr and Ma ste
Th e M. W. Ed wa rd H. Gr and Sec ret ary .
cted
Lo dge No . 560. wa s re~ele
No . 608, wa s
Ca mp bel l. Gr ana da Lo dge
G.
d
nal
Th e V. W. Do
re- ele cte d Gr and Lec tur er.
ary to rea d the
dir ect ed the Gr and Sec ret
Th e Gr and Master~elect
icers as fol low s:
nam es of the app oin tiv e off

339

GRAN D LODG E OF CALI FORN I A

338

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

nin, Wes t Gate Lod ge
Gra nd Cha plain , Rab bi Edg ar F . Mag
No. 335.
pbel l. Nor th Butt e Lod ge
Assi stan t Gra nd Lect urer s: Clar e B. Cam
gton Lod ge No. 20: Arth ur J.
No. 230; Har old N. Rich ards , Wa shin
lace H. Fisk e, East Belt Lod ge
Wal
Kah n. Paul Rev ere Lod ge No. 462;
shal l Lod ge No. 636: W. Ben
No. 391; Rob ert A. Crig ler, John Mar
Sorr ells, Lag una Beach Lod ge No. 672.
rgre en Lod ge No. 259.
Gra nd Ora tor. Byro n C. Mor ton, Eve
ley. Amity~Seal Rock Lod ge
Assi stan t Gra nd Trea sure r, Jack F. Bow
No. 370.
Hen drix , Mou nt Diab lo
Assi stan t Gran d Secr etar y, Ver ne W.
Lod ge No. 448.
Mou ntain Lod ge No. 124.
Gra nd Mar shal . Basil R. Gillett, Tab le
Cran ston . Woo dlan d Lod ge
Gra nd Stan dard Bear er, L. Stew art
No. 156.
Wu . Paul Revere Lod ge
Gran d Swo rd Bearer, Tho mas W. S.
No. 462.
r, McC loud Lod ge No. 430.
Gra nd Bible Bearer, Milt on C. Gerl iche
don, Jr., Glen dora Lod ge
Seni or Gra nd Dea con, G. Basil Gor
No. 404.
rand , Pal m Spri ngs Lod ge
Juni or Gra nd Dea con. Rob ert S. Bert
No. 693.
Tisc orni a, Cala vera s Lodge
Seni or Gran d Stew ard, Vinc ent C.
No. 78.
Clar k, Lod ge le Prog res de
Juni or Gra nd Stew ard, G. W arre n
J'Oc eanie No. 371.
Dos Palo s Lod ge No. 681.
Gra nd Purs uiva nt, Rich ard D. Crow e,
forn ia Lod ge No. 1.
Gra nd Org anis t, Har old Mue ller. Cali
Lod ge No. 651.
Gra nd Tile r. Dav id Wri ght, M enlo Park
wing appo intm ents by the
Ann ounc eme nt was mad e of the follo
Gra nd Mas ter-e lect:
forn ia, the re-a ppointme nt
As Tru stees of the Mas onic Hom es of Cali
art, Jr. and L. Haro ld And erso n,
of Past Gra nd Mas ters Edg ar V. Stew
per for the unex pired term of
and the appo intm ent of Herb ert H. Coo
igne d).
Past Gran d Mas ter Phil N. Mye rs (res
onic Mem oria l Tem ple. the reMas
ia
forn
Cali
the
As Trus tees of
the appo intm ent of Past Gra nd
appo intm ent of Sam uel I. Jaco bs and
Mas ter Phil N. Mye rs.
d off until I : 30 p.m.
At 12: 00 noon Gra nd Lod ge was calle

AFT ERN OO N SES SIO N-F rida y, Oct

obe r 16, 1964

At 1 :30 p.m. Gra nd Lod ge assembled.

INS TAL LAT ION OF OFF ICE RS
Gra nd Mas ter. acte d as
Mos t Wor ship ful John R. Moo re, Past
, elected and appo inted (wit h
Mas ter of Cere mon ies and the officers
sure r Jack F . Bow ley) . were
the exce ption of Assi stan t Gran d Trea
in acco rdan ce with the Ritual.
insta lled by the reti ring Gra nd Mas ter
invested his pred eces sor with a
ter
The new ly installed Gra nd Mas
Past Gra nd Mas ter's lapel butt on.
was tran sferr ed from the
The Cha rles Albe rt Ada ms lapel pin
r, and the othe r chai r officers
retir ing to the incu mbe nt Gra nd M aste
pins.
exch ange d the Arth ur S. Crit es lapel
d the Eve rett Hou ser lape l pin
ente
pres
tor
Ora
nd
Gra
ing
retir
The
and the retir ing Gra nd Cha plai n
to the new ly installed Gra nd Ora tor
to the new ly insta lled Gra nd
pres ente d the Rob ert B. Wat ts lapel pin
Cha plai n.
sted Mos t Wor ship ful Elm er
Mos t Wor ship ful Ira W. Cob urn inve
ion and Mos t Wor ship ful
gnat
W. Hea ld with the apro n of his new ~esi
Gra nd Mas ter Cert ifica te
Past
a
Alfr ed F. Bres laue r then pres ente d
to him .
Mos t Wo rship ful Guy B.
A gift for Mrs . Hea ld was tend ered by
nd Lod ge. for whic h the Junior
Miz e on beha lf of the mem bers of Gra
and resp onde d with rema rks
Past Gra nd Mas ter expr esse d than ks
ity to serv e the Frat ernity
rtun
evidencing his appr :ciat ion for the oppo
ents duri ng his year as Gran d
and to the members for their achi evem
Mas ter.
Mos t Wor ship ful The odor e
Immedia tely following the ceremonies
Bret hren who, as a gest ure of
Mer iam pres ente d near ly two hund red
from Chic o to be pres ent on
resp ect and brot herl y love, had trav eled
essed grat itud e for the oppo rtuthe occa sion of his installation. He expr
y frien ds for their good wishes.
man
his
nity of service and also than ks to
d, Gra nd Lod ge was clos ed
At 2:40 p.m .. all busi ness bein g complete
in due form.

Gra nd Mas ter
Gra nd Secr etar y

<;RA ND LOD GE OF CAL IFOR

341

NIA

CH ES TE R HA RV EY W AR
Grn nd Ma ster - I 9-18
Born
June 30. 1XK9
C asa Cou nty . Illino1~

LO \V

Da·d
Dec emb er 10. 1963
Fr~ sno. Ca li forni a

342

PROC:EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE 01:' CAl.I FORNl.I\

343

EULOGY
CHESTER HARVEY WARLO W

By Les lie E. Wo od

MAS O NIC MEMORIAL SERVICE
A Masonic Me moria l Service was conducted for Past Grand Master
Chester Harvey Warlow at 2:00 p.m. Thursday. December 12, 1963. in
the Scottish Rite Temple. 1455 L Street. Fres no. Past Grand Master
Arthur M. Warren presided as Master, Pas t Gra nd Master Ed ward H .
Siems acted as Chaplain , and Past Grand M aster Leslie E. W ood gave
the Eulogy which is appended to this account.
The following Past M asters of Fresno Lodge No. 247 were active
pa llbearers:
Richard D . Heppner
Donald L. Anderson
Ralph W. Kue ttel
Wayne H. Towne
Lester M. Grimm
John L. Stewart
All Inspectors General Honorary 33° of the Fresno Scottis h Rite
Bodies were designated as honorary pallbearers.
A Masonic Graveside Ceremon y concluded the service.

Looking back over a period of 111 ore than thirty years of close
friendship and associa tio n with Chester Harvey Warlow, it is \Nith a
feeling o f sadness and inadeq uacy that I attempt to pay this last tribute
to his memory.
Chester H arvey Warlow. or "Chet .. as he preferred to be called and
was known to hi s many friends. hetd that rare ability to make peopl e
feel corn for table in his presence and at the fir st mee ti ng to create the
feeling that they had been friend s of long standing. As a commi ttee
me mber his counsel a nd advice were sought by his colleag ues and it
was always appa rent that he had the courage of his convictions and in
any controversy was ready to defend his position. When his reasoning
prevailed, as it so often did . he accepted it with humility and when he
fo und h imself outvoted, he accepted the decision with a smile.
He was born in the state of Illinois in 1889 and moved to California
wi th his family when he was less than one year old. He attended the
pu blic schools of Fresno and was a graduate of Stanford University.
In 191 2 he was a member of the graduating class of H a rvard Law
School. H e was admitted to the bar in 191 3 and practiced his chosen
profession in the city o f Fresno for the following seventeen years, taking
time o ut only to serve his country during World W ar I. A t the time
o f his discha rg e from the service he held the rank of F irst Lieutenant
in the Ai r Corps. In f 930 he became Trust Officer for the Security Bank
of Fresno and served in that capacity ui1til his retirement in 1943.
Hi s Masonic career star ted in 1922 when he beca me a M as ter M ason
in Fresno Lodge No. 247. H e v.ras M aster of his Lodge in 1928. He was
appoin ted Inspector of the district an d served during the years of 1929
and 1930. In 1934 he was chosen as an A ssistant Grand Lecturer and
held that office until his election as Grand Lecturer in 1941 . A t the
An nual Communication of this Gra nd Lodge in 1944 his brethren w isely
selected him to be their Junio r Gra nd Warden. He was elevated to the
offices of Senior Grand W arden and Deputy G rand M aste r. and at
the 1947 Communication he was elected and installed as Grand M aster
of M aso ns in California.
He became a member of the Fresno Bodies of the Scottis h Rite in
1924 and in recognition of his services. the ran k and decoration o f Knight
Commander of the Court of Honour was bestowed upon him in 1939.
In 1943 he was corone ted a Thirty-third Degree Scottish Ri te Mason .
H e found ou tlet for his bound less energies in ma ny fiel ds of endeavor. H e was a P ast P reside nt of the F resno Chamber o f Com merce,
a Rotarian, a me mber of the Ca lifornia Highwa y C o mmission for m<iny

344

PIW CE EDIN GS OF THE

(;RA ND LOD GE OF C: Al.IF ORN

IA

a
in man y ci vic proj ects. H e was
yea rs and took an acti ve inte rest
the
and
Joaq uin Wa ter Com mis sion
lead er and guid ing ha nd in the San
.
ion
Sier rn Nat iona l P ark Com miss
his life to Mas onr y, his state. his
Tru ly he gav e the ad ult yea rs of
and
his hom e city he was Mr . Fres no
com mun ity and his cou ntry . In
l
loya
a
.
men
ected as a man amo ng
in Mas onry he was love d a nd resp
ty
erni
frat
e
th
of
ber
and ded icat ed mem
and trus ted frien d and a dev oted
l.
"\Vei
so
ed
serv
that he lo,·ed and
ke the imp ossi ble task of findin g
It will not be our end eav or to und erta
but
. beca use non e could be foun d :
someo ne to repl ace Che t Wa rlow
lfish
unse
the
on
ying
carr
cap able of
rath er to find some de vote d pers on
ed thro ugh out his life. M en like
orm
perf
he
that
k
wor
ful
and mea ning
thei r
otte n. but live in the mem ory of
C het Wa rlow a re not soon forg
come.
frien ds thro ugh out the yea rs to
r and to exp ress in wor ds mor e
In mem ory of one we held so dea
. whi ch seems app ropr iate to this
eloq uen t than mine. I reca ll a poem
occa sion .
d eath ?
Wh at is this mys tery that men call
e brea th
My frien d befo re me lies; in all sav
face
His
He see ms the sam e as yest erda y.
e
trac
a
not
rs
So like to life. so calm . bea
drea d.
so
us
of
all
ch
Of that grea t cha ng e whi
d
dea
not
is
He
:
say
I gaz e on him and
e and ta ke
But slee ps; and soon he will aris
awa ke
Me by the han d . I kno w he will
y:
erda
And smile o n me as he did yest
to say.
d
wor
tle
gen
And he will hav e som e
thou ght
g
n
lovi
for
do;
Some kindly d eed to
was wro ugh t.
life
his
ch
whi
of
f
woo
Wa s war p and
live
He is not dea d. Suc h soul s fore ver
they gav e.
In bou ndle ss mea sure of the love
w, law yer . sold ier. civic a nd fraAnd so to C hest er H ar vey W arlo
a sad
loya l and trus ted frien d we bid
tern al lead er. dev oted hus ban d.
no
ch
"vhi
ve.
abo
tha t Cele stia l Lod ge
fa rew ell unti l we mee t aga in in
erse
univ
the
of
ter
Mas
rem e Gra nd
time can close and whe re the Sup
fore ver pres ides .
be with him . no w and ever a fter.
May peac e a nd God 's lovi ng care

AR TH UR ME LV IN WA RR E N
Gra nd Ma ster - 195 2
Gra nd Tre a sure r - 1960-196-1
8 orn
Dec<.-mber 27. 190 1

San Franci5co, California

Died
May 21. 1961

S;in Fra ncisco. California

345

346

PROC:EEDI NGS Of Tll E

Gra nd Lod ge asse mbl ed in the
Cal ifor nia M aso nic Mem oria l Tem
ple
to con duc t the fun eral serv ice
for Pas t Gr<ind Ma ster Art hur
M elvin
Wa rren at 11 :00 a.m . Mo nda
y. Ma y 25. 196 4. The stat ions
wer e
occ upie d a.:; foll ows :
Gra nd Ma ster ............ .. ..................
........THEODO RE MER I1\M
Dep uty Gra nd Ma srer .. ...... ...... ......
...... ..ELB ERT W. D AVIS
Sen ior G ran d W ard en ...... ............
.. ... .... ... MYR ON E. SMI TH
funi or Gra nd Wa rde n .. ....... .. ....
...... .LAu REN CE E. DAY TO N
Gra nd Tre asu rer ........ .. .... ...... ......
... ....... .. EUG ENE S. HoP P
Gra nd Sec reta ry ...... ...... ...... ...... ....
..... ..... Eow ARD H . StEM S
Gra nd Lct turc r .. .... .... ............... ...
.... DON ALD G. CAM Pl:lE LL
Gra nd Cha plai n .... ............ ...........
...... .. ... ADA M B. MoR TEN
Gra nd Ora tor ...... .. ...... ...............
..... C HES TER R. MA CPH EE
Ass ista nt Gra nd Treasu rer ............
. .. ...PAU L A. PFL UEGER
Ass ista nt Gra nd Sec reta ry ............
....VER NE W. HEN DRIX
Gra nd M a rsha l.. ...... ...... ..................
........ GEO RGE D. G AVIN
Gra nd Sta nda rd B earc r ..... ... ......
.. .... HAR OLD N . Ric HAR DS
Gra nd Swo rd Bea rer. ...... .. ...........
.......... S AMU EL G. C L ARK
Gra nd Bible Bea rcr .... ...... ............
.................. .. Gu v B. M1 zE
Sen ior Gra nd Dea con ........... ......
.....W i\RR EN J. BLO M SET H
Junior Gra nd Deacon ...... ............
..... .... ...HAR RY K. Wrn uP
Sen ior Gra nd Ste war d .. .... ... ......
. .. .. Eow ARD C. LOH MEY ER
f unio r Gra nd Stew ard ............ ......
...... EAR L A . CAL DW EU.
Gra nd Pur suil 'ant ...... ............. ...
BER TRA M C. VON K oNS
KY
Gra nd Org ani st ..... ...... ..................
...... ... HAR OLD MU ELL ER
Gra nd Tile r.. .. ...... ....... ...............
................. DAV ID WR IGH T
The Eul ogy . as give n by Che
ster R. Ma cPh ee. is app end ed
to this
acc oun t.
Act iue Pal lbea rers
L. Har old And erso n
T. G alt Atw ood
Alf red F. Bre slau e r
H enr y C. Cla use n
Gail H . Dav id
Joh n M . Gor don
Jam es Leo Hal ley
Alf red H. Nic ol

H ono rary Pal lbea rers
Pas t Ma ster s and cur ren t offic
ers o f Mt. Davidso n Lod ge N
o. 481 ,
San Fra ncis co.
Gra ves ide ser\ 'ice s at Oliv et
Mem oria l Par k w ere con duc ted
by
Ad<im B. Mo rte n w ho serv ed as
Gra nd Cha plai n dur ing Art hur
M elvin
Wa rren 's yea r a s Gra nd M aste
r.

GRA ND L ODG E O F l.AL IFOR

NIA

347

EU LO GY
AR TH UR ME LV I N WA RR

By Che ster R . Ma cPh ce

EN

. F rom time to time, Alm igh ty
God in his infi ni te wis d o m. brin
gs upo n
t his eart h a man so emi n entl y
fair and d ece nt. so ded icat ed
to the trnc
mea nin g and exe mpl ific atio n of
bro ther ly love a nd und erst and
ing . .so
loya l. so able . and so will ing to
give o f him self for oth ers.
W e loo k at this man . we talk
to him. and som eho w his wor
ds a nd
dem ean or plac e us at ease . an
d give us com fort . W e feel som
eho w we
a re bet ter men w hen we are
in his pres enc e. and whe n we
leav e him
we say to our selv es " No w that
's the kind of man I wou ld like
to be.' '
S uch a man was Art hur Me h·in
Wa rren .
. Her e. my. bre thre n and frie
nd s. was a man . a grea t ma n.
d ivin ely
insp ired by his God . A man w
hos e enti re adu lt life wa s give
n in serv ice
abo ve sel f.
'
As a Ma son he gav e o f him
self with o ut rega rd to pers ona
l con ven ienc e, and er•cry assi gnm ent
he was cha rge d with was perf
orm ed
lett er perf ect. He serv ed his
beloved Mt. D avid son Lod ge
as M aste r
an d sub seq uen tly as Tre asu re
r.
He was _a memb_e.r of t he orig
inal com mit tee whi ch d eve lope
d the
pla ns for th is mag nifi cen t stru
ctur e w here we hav e t his day
gath ered
to bid him fare wel l. and t he re
are th ose of us here now who
are will ing
to <idn:'1t that \>.'lt hou t his fore sigh
t. sou nd bus in ess judg me nt . and
gen tle
pro dd mg. the stru ctu re may nev
er hav e been buil t.
A r t hu r Meh -in Wa rren serv ed
with dist inct ion as G ran d Tre
a s ure r
of the Gra nd Lodsie of Ma son s;
as Gra nd M aste r of M a son s in
Cal ifor nia; as G r and Lec t urer : as Sec
reta ry of the M aste rs and Wa
rde ns'
Ass ocia tion ; a nd as Pre side nt
of t he P ast M a ster s Ass ocia
tion . He
serv ed as Pres iden t o f the Cal
ifor nia G ran d Lod ge Tem ple
Ass ocia tion
and Tre asu rer o f t he M aso nic
Hom es Boa rd.
I am wel l w ithi n the mar k whe
n I say Cal ifor nia M asonry
cou ld
not hav e serv ed the boy s and girl
s. a nd t he olde r folks at o ur Ma
son ic
Hom es a s ~dequately as we now
do had it no t bee n for his kno
wle dge .
resp ons 1b1h ty. and kee n jud gme
nt in fina ncia l mat ters .
A rt hu r W arre n was t he first
Ma ster Cou ncil or of D eM olav
in the
City of San Fra ncis co. H e was
a mem ber of the D e M olay L~g
ion of
H ono r. He serv ed Ma son ry in
a lmos t eve ry cap acit y. hon ored
with the
33rd D egre e. and t he Red Cro
ss of Con stan tine .
The re was no cit•ic res pon sibi
lity in w hich he did not exce
l. H e
sen ·ed as fore man o f t he San
F ranc isco Gra nd Jury in 194
8. a pas t
G ove rno r of the Opt imi st Clu b.
a mem ber o f the Com mon wea lth
Clu b.
He wa s a trus tee and dire ctor
of Oliv et Mem oria l Par k. and
he serv ed
man y. man y oth er org aniz a ti ons
. alw ays with the sam e high d
egre e o f
exc elle nce .

GR AN D LO DG E OF

348

PRO C EE DIN GS OF

TH E

I sai d his los s to all
de rs tat ing the fac ts if
no u•o rds or
wo uld be gu ilty of un
sim ple fac t is the re are
e
Th
.
ble
nta
ou
urm
s gre at los s.
of us is alm ost ins
ad eq ua tel y de scr ibe thi
can
h
ic
wh
n
sio
res
an
no me an s of exp
a ma n w ho ros e from
gre atn ess ? H erc wa s
e
Th
s.
nk
ba
t
rea
g
H ow do yo u me asu re
·s
a
on e of Ca lifo rni
of
nt
de
esi
s
Pr
e
wa
e
vic
up on him . H
err an d bo y to
sto w we re co nfe rre d
be
can
ry
y
n
ma
so
u
Ma
yo
rs
hig he st ho no
d fin anc e. an d ye t
thorit y in bu sin ess an
ery
an ac kn owled ge d au
ch ec k the na me s of ev
or
rds of the ba nk
eco
r
l
a
e
d
nn
fin
rso
t.
pe
no
l
the
wil
sea rch
no t. yo u
Ca lif orn ia an d yo u can
of
te
Sta
the
in
nt.
n
rta
so
Ma
re im po
hi m alw ay s. YO U we
o
mo re hu mb le ma n. T o
ev ery sin gle pe rso n wh
by
d
cte
pe
res
d
an
.
red
no
ho
He wa s lo ved.
no ex cep tio ns.
ds. Me n an d
kn erv him . Th ere we re
tie nc e kn ew no bo un
pa
se
ho
w
n
ma
a
s
qu ick ly tur ne d
He re als o wa
ble ms . no r we re the y
pro
ir
the
h
it
w
him
to
ser vic e wa s mi no r or
wo me n cam e
o ug h the qu est ion or
th
en
ev
te,
ina
ord
sub
be s t. W he re did he
asi de to a
m he alw ay s ga ve his
the
of
e
on
h
eac
o
T
.
diffic ult
d ind eed all of us . as
to ser ve M aso nry . an
nce
tie
pa
d
an
e
tim
the
find
rt
he did ?
n ple asu res to tak e pa
alw ay s for eg o his ow
W hy did he a lm os t
ul to oth ers?
oc ca sio ns to
in some act ivity he lpf
the ba nk on so man y
at
e
lat
t
i
wa
to
him
W ha t cau sed
to oth ers ? .
s tha t me an t so mu ch
th fra ter na l.
tak e car e of litt le thi ng
we po ure d o n him . bo
d
oa
rkl
wo
the
ll
a
th
ve d the the ory .
An d ye t. wi
all times happ y. He pro
at
s
wa
he
er.
oth
d
eth ing yo u mu st first
bu sin ess, an
t rea l ha pp ine ss is som
tha
le.
mp
exa
e
th
ed
an d he /i11
it co me s ba ck to you!
giu e to o the rs be for e
us to follow . set tin g us
s ch art ing a co urs e for
wa
he
e
g us
iev
bel
to
e
lik
I
t an d ex am ple . Te llin
wo rds bu t by pre cep
ng
A rt
usi
!
t
ers
No
oth
.
ple
for
am
es
ex
an
giv e of o urs elv
we
t
tha
nd
ma
de
r
no
tha t du ty an d ho
tot al s um of love.
a blo sso m to
W arr en ad de d to the
ser vice we re to bri ng
a
id
d
he
om
wh
for
lm ing ga rde n o f
If ev ery on e
t ben ea th an ov erw he
igh
ton
ep
sle
uld
wo
his gra ve he
flowers.
wh o are tri ed in the
an d fri en ds. are me n
n
hre
et
br
my
.
n
the
W hy
to give to the ir lov ed
ue . w ho ha ve so mu ch
iss
ult
rad
ery
ev
f
o
le
cru cib
d, indeed to the be tte
bu sin ess ass oc iat es. an
e
d
an
tim
l
a
na
at
ter
.~
u
fra
m
ir
fro
the
on es.
n. are the y tak en
the
y.
wh
.
elf
its
rld
me nt of thi s wo
n is the gre ate st?
w he n the ir co ntr ibu tio
th ere is sil enc e.
W e ask ou r Go d an d
d ba rre n pe ak s
le be tw ee n the col d an
1>a
w
rro
na
a
is
life
M y fri en ds
o f tw o ete rni tie s.
cry alo ud an d the
yo nd the he igh ts. W e
be
k
loo
to
in
va
in
e
W e s triv
.
ho of ou r wa ilin g cry
on
on ly an sw er is th e ec
ho rizon. an d tha t ho riz
the
t
jus
is
ath
de
ow
kn
we
th
fai
r
ou
Bu t in

l.A LIF OR N !A

349

ow n uis ion .
is lim ite d on ly by our
to thi s rea t
tod ay to say go od by e
r
the
ga
we
as
l
ful
is jus t as gsu re
Ou r he a rts are
an d be tog eth er ag ain
et
me
ll
sha
we
at
Th
an d gohodfman. s da y.
as nig t all ow
e co nso la tion in the
is ind eed sad . we tak
ell
ew
far
ur
o
gh
ou
A lth
us. an d set an ex am ple
us . ga ve of himse lf to
g
on
am
of all
e
cam
he
t
tha
fact.
an d frie nd s. wo rth y
ex am ple , my hre thr en
an
te.
ula
em
to
~
hf
of
1m1tat1on.
the ma ny me n
n ch ose n fro m am o ng
bee
ve
ha
o
wh
u
yo.
to
.
An d no w
u his sac red du st
ic Se rl'i ce. we giv e yo
son
_
Ma
s
thi
•e
gH
to
the re is no mo re h.on or
he lou ed
o ur lov e. Th ere wa s.
Sp eec h ca nn ot con ta in
ab le or finer ma n.

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

35 1

SPE CIA L APP END IX
CON TENT S
Page
.............. 352
Grand Lodge AudiL ....................................... ..... .......... ..........
........ 363
A udit of Annua l Return s. 1964............ .. ........................................
........... 365
Maso nic Home s Audit .................... ....................... ....................
...... ...... 401
Memo rial Temp le Audit ............................................................
Statist ical:
.... 406
Reside nts at Union City.......................................... ....................
.......... 415
Childr en at Covin a Home .............................................. ........
C ontrib utions to Specia l Reserves .......... ..............................

.......... 417

352

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT
LYBRAND, Hoss BRos.c.., '.'"fo:\TGOMERY
CCATIF'IED Pueuc ACCO':JNTANT S
ONE

8VSH

STREET

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA
We attach the f o llowing:
Exhibit A

Statement of assets, liabilitie s, and
fund balance

Exhibit 8

Statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed

S.-...N FRANC1s_co 4

Schedule l Schedule 2
Schedule 3

YUKOH l -S.l3lc

153

Investmen ts

- Contribut ion s received from Lodges

Q f"l'" U;:.l( .lo IN fHlt
,_llll 1 ,..C1~AL ClftlES Or lMC

-

Schedule 4 Sche dule 5

-

One Page
The Most Worsh i pful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the
State o f Californ ia,

San Franci sco, California 94109.

and fund balanc e of The Mos t Wors hipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California as of June 30 , 1964,
and the related statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed fo r the year then ended .

Our exami nation was made in

accordance with generally accepted auditing s tandards, an d
according ly included such tests of the accounting records and !.:uch
other auditing proced ures as w~ consi der ed necessary in the
circum s tances.

We previously examined and reported upon the

financial statement s for the year e nded June 30, 1963.
In o ur opinion, the a ccompanyin g btateme nts presen t
fairly the assets, liabilitie s, and fund balance of The Most
Worsh ipfu l Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Maso ns o f the State
of Cali for nia at June 30, 1964 and 1963, arising primarily fr om
cash transacti ons, and the revenue received and expenses di s bursed
by it for the years then ended on a consisten t basis.

Appropria tions
Notes to financial statement s

~;.._-t._2·2-~/r:.,.;:,--;:.7.

1111 Californi a Street,

We have examined t he statement of assets, liabilitie s,

Administr ative and off ice expense
General expense

Certified Public Accountan ts
August 5, 1964

355

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA
PROCE EDING S OP THE

354

EXHIB IT A

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SES DISBURSED
STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED AND EXPEN
1963
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and

FUND BALANCE
STATEMENT OF ASSET S, LIABI LITIE S, AND
June 30, 1964 and 1963
A S S E T S!
1964

~

$ 94,999

$294.1 21

573.38 6

157,02 3

27 ,022

30,959

248,99 1

362 75l

849.39 9

550,73 3

51.938

50 , 014

57
425
~60

24,179
425
§Q4

~2,780

75' 222

$:il:i!Z,J.Zll

$:il,Q,Q Zg

Cash
Invest :roent s (at cost) , Sched ule 1: $151,7 96)
Bonds (mark et value $565 , 745 and
and
Prefe rred stock (mark et value $25,07 5
$20.67 5)
Common stock (mark et value $328,9 17 and
$481,0 91)
Total (mark et value $919,7 37
and $661,5 62)
Other asset s:
2)
Furni ture and fixtur es (at cost, Note
s
Insura nce premiu ms advan ced for Lodge
(Note 3)
Refun dable depos it
Sundr y receiv ables

Total asset s

I

$

4,717
3 , 810
8 ,992
" 3 514
40,}.0 9
I

FUnd balan ce:
Balan ce, begin ning of year
Less. trans fer to Reser ve for
"Cali fornia Freem ason" (Note 4)
Add , net revenu e for year, Exhib it B
Balan ce, end of year
Total liabi lities and fund balan ce

$

4,647
2,990
7,290
1.447
35,!68

§1 }.42

SL 550

868,52 5

796 ,634

I

Total liabi lities

Reven ue:
Contr ibutio ns receiv ed from Lodge s,
Sched ule 2
ses:
Less, those receiv ed for speci al purpo
Mason ic Homes of Calif ornia
Calif ornia Maso nic Memo rial Templ e
Georg e Washi ngton Mason ic Natio nal
Memo rial
Fees for chart ers a n d dispe nsatio ns
Rents from Colum bia Templ e
es
Rents from Old Mason ic Hall, Los Angel
ced
Reven ue from insura nce premiu ms advan
for Lodge s
Reven ue from inves tment s:
Divid ends on stock s
Inter est on bonds
Inter est on bank accou nts

$1,053 ,397

$1,05 3, 120

417 ,979
297,36 4

416, 306
296.71 7

§,195
721,53 !2
J31,B5 2
4 55
372
465

6,204
119,22 7

1,92'

l.l~l

15 , 810
11, 180
4 677
31,667

22. 04 5
2,117
10,14 2
34,304

24,000
15' 119
32' 112
31. 893
3Z,~l§

24,000
17 ,071
41,071
37,895
21,28! 2

(5,J23 )
45,662

16,§0 7
48,841

57,~9§

4~.~00

112,33 4)

4,24!

Reimb ursem ent from Mason ic Homes of
Calif ornia for:
. Secre tarial and other servic es
Endow ment Board expen se
Sale of suppl ies held f o r resale
Less , purch ase of suppl ies for resale

LIABI LITIES AND FUND BALANCE:
Liabi lities :
Contr ibutio ns by initia tes for the
Georg e Washi ngto n Mason ic Natio nal
Memo rial Assoc iatio n
return s
Advan ce payme nts by Lodge s on annua l
Contr ibutio ns due pensio n fund
Accru ed payro ll taxes and expen se
4)
Reser ve for "Cali fornia Freem ason" (Note

EXHIB IT B

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFO RNIA

4,241
863 ,584
7 2' 45 2
9~6,0J6

$ 222 I

The accom panyin g notes are an integ ral
part of the finan cial statem ent• .

11,e2 2
!;:l6!;!,526

.u.a $~Wl. Qlg

n"
Subsc riptio ns for "Cali fornia Freem aso
Less, publi9 hing expen diture s
(Corre spond ence Comm ittee)
Retur n by retiri ng Grand Maste r of
unuse d expen se appro priati ons
Legac y rece ived
Total revenu e
Expen se!
Admi nistra tive and offic e expen se,
Sched ule 3
Gener al expen se, Sched ule 4
Appro priati ons, Sched ule 5

~33,893

520
J75
465

1,340
7Q9
388,21 4

434,69 7

135 231
148,22 5
9§,767
380,22 3

125,41 8
143.60 4
lQl,§6 !2
370,68 8

8, 691
6~,7§!

64 < 009
7,!;!8J

z' 9i~' $

Zl ll~'

Net reven ue, befor e gain on
secur ities sales
Net gain on sales of secur ities
$
Net reven ue, Exhib it A
ral
integ
an
are
notes
g
panyin
The accom
part of the finan cial statem ents.

C

357

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR N IA
PROCEED INGS OP THE

356

GRAND LODGE, F . & A . M. OF CALIFOR NIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIF ORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Pag e 1

SCHEDULE l
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
J u ne 30 , 1964

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

COMMON STOCK
BONDS
f'ace Value
$ 20,000

100 , 000
50,000
. 20.000
10 , 000
5,000
4,600
7 0,000
40 , 000
2 5, 0 0 0
230 , 000

Atlanti c Co ast Line Railro ad Equipne nt
Trust, 4-1/ 8%. 1968
Chesape ake & Ohio Railway Company Equipne nt
Trust , 4-1 / 4% , 1968
Chicago , Burling t on & Quincy Railroa d
Equipne nt Trust, 3-7/8% , 1971
Louisv ille & Nashvil le Railroa d Equipne nt
Trust, 4%, 1971
Nor fol k & Western Railway Equipne nt Trust,
3-7/ 8%. 197 2
Norfolk & Western Railway Equipne nt Trust ,
4%, 1970
Virgini an Railway , Inc ome Debentu re .
6%. 2008
Federal Home Loan Bank. Co nsolida ted Notes.
4-1 / 8%. 19 66
United States Treasur y Bonds, 2-1/2%, 197 2
United States Treasur y Bonds, 3-1/2%, 1990
United States Treasur y Bonds, 4%, 1969
Total bonds

$ 19, 933
100 ,209
49,408
20 ,000
9 , 87 2
5,000
5 .129
70, 085
37,991
25 ,687
23 0. 07 2
$573 386

PREFERRED STOCK
~

10 0
100
100

Kaiser Aluminum and Chemica l, 4-1/8%
Owens- Illino i s Glass, 4%
Permane nte Cement Company , 5%
T o tal preferre d sto ck

$ 10,352
11 . 450
5 . 220
$ 27 0 22

100
10 0

112
100
100
300
660
100
215
544
110
500
200
210
733
10 0
102
100100
208
100
10 0
105
371
100
100
400
100
100

116
100
202
300
200
175
300

All i ed Chemica l Corpora t i on
Ame r ic an Cya namid Company
Bank of Amer ica N.T. & S.A .
Bend i x Co rporat i on
CIT Fi na nc ia l Corpora tion
Champi on Paper s , Inc .
Colu mb ia Gas System , I nc.
Comme rci a l Credi t Company
Consoli d a t ed Ed ison Compa ny of Naw Yo r k , Inc .
Crocker -C i t i z e ns Na t ional Bank
Cro wn Zel l erb ach Co rpora t i o n
Duquesn e Light Company
El Paso Natu ral Gas Company
Fireman 's Fu nd In s urance Company
General Public Utiliti e s Corpora t ion
Goodyea r Tire and Ru bbe r Company
Gulf Oil Corpor atio n
Ingerso l l -Rand Compan y
Inland S tee l Company
Inte rstate Power Compan y
Kaiser Al uminum and Ch e mical Corpora ti on
Liggett & My ers To bacco Company
Maratho n Oil Company
Norther n State s Power Company of Minnes o ta
Ohio Ediso n Company
J . ~- Pe nney Com pan y . Inc.
Pennsyl vania Power & Li ght Company
Phi ll ips · Petr o l e um Compa n y
Soco ny Mobi l Oi l Company , Inc.
Standar d Oil Compa ny of Cal i fornia
Standar d Oil Compan y of New Jerse y
Tenne ssee Gas Transmi ss ion Company
Union Ele ctri c Company
Uni te d States Ste el Co rporatio n
Wel ls Farg o Bank
Wes te rn Banco rporatio n
To t a l c ommon stock

$

3 ,642
5 , 058
5 , 863
5 , 7 20
4 , 077
8 . 725
lJ. 562
3 , 989
13 ' 15 1
6,805
5. 5 19
9,948
5 , 44 0
5 , 14 4
13 . 998
4 ,755
3 , 888
8 , 4 97
4, 542
5 , 4 37
3 , 53 7
9,000
4 , 446
4 , 115
4 , 4 17
4 ,7 42
1 4 , 28 8
5 , 882
4 , 857
5, 1 31
4 . 54 2
4 , 67 3
8 ,6 13
14 , 280
7, 7 4 7
1 0,961
$ 248 . 991

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

359

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2

Based upon membership:
Master Masons at
June 30, 1963
Less, members
whose dues were
remitted
Members paid for, per
1963 annual returns
Rate per me1nber
Amount
Based upon degrees conferred in year ended
June 30, 1964 - 17,799
at $1 each
Based upon initiates, and
affiliates for Masonic
Homes, at rate of
Final .payment for year
ended June 30, 1963,
per 1963 annual
returns
Installment payments
on 1964 annual
returns

244,798
3.819
~~0,979

l,JO
313,273

$

1,00

$

;!1~Q,21~

l,OQ
240,279

17,799
25,00

9 . 00

$....l.....QQ.

43,200

13,932

1 , 548

·· 1J5 ,500
178 700

43,022
56,997

~

.331,072

419,679

297,976

6,263

787

{1,700)

1212)

__{§)

331,859
$~""""
....w.o1.6

UlZ12Z2

$ii2Z,J!ii

$~

$

$

!

Total, before adjustments
for previous years and
refunds
Adjustments for previous
years and (refunds),
· netted
Totals
Grand total

SCliEDULE 3

AUUNISTRA'J:IVB AND OFFICB EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

Contributions Received from Lodges for
Grand
George
Lodge
Masonic
California Washington
Support
Homes
Masonic
Masonic
and
of
Memorial
National
Actiyities California
Temple
Memorial

$

GRAND p()DGB, F • & J'.• M. OF CALIFORNIA
,~

CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM LODGES
For the year ended June 30, 1964

As;tu1J.

Budget
Salaries
Payroll taxes
Retirement pension plan
for employees of:
Grand Lodge
Agencies
Medical plan for Grand
Lodge employees
Payroll . service plan
Grand Lodge offices, Temple
·operation, and maintenance
expense
Audit
Postage and express
Telefbone and telegrafh
Investment counsel
supplemental pension to
Lloyd. E. Wilson
Grand Trea·surer

..!.2..2.i

.1.2.il

I ~scrlili:!!i!~ l

$ 90,00Q
5,750

$ 82,599
4,270

$ 78,200
5,399

$4,399
(1,129)

10,200
8,300

10,572
7 ,716

7,408
4,470

3,164
3,246

1,000
200

865
122

556
50

309
72

18,000
3,000
4,500
4,500
500

18,000
3,000
3,590
3,997
500

18,000
3,000
3 ; 407
3,666
500
762

~:iQ

146,200

4, 715.
Additional authorized
by Grand Master

$135 I jl31

$125 ,418

40Q
rnui.!il212

$1. 05 3 , 39Z

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements ·.

Increase

~

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

183
331

(762)

361

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

360

PROCEED INGS OF THE
SCHEDULE 4

GRAND LODGE, .F • . & A. K. OF CALIFOR NIA

APPROPRIATIONS
For the years ended June 30, 1964 a nd 1963

GENERAL EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

actu~l

B<ldget
Actual

Annual Cominun ication
Confere nces
Grand Lodge officer s'
travel expense
Grand Organis t and
Grand Tiler
Grand Master ' s travel,
secreta rial, and
miscell aneous expense
Represe ntatives ' mileage
Rituali stic expense :
Grand Le cture r
Inspect ors' aprons
and statione ry
Ritual Coromitt ee and
inspect ors' confere nce
and travel expense
Grand Lodge regalia
Veteran buttons
Retirem ent pay
Investm ent counsel for Lodges
Printin g
Insuran ce:
workmen 's compen sation
for Lodges
Miscell aneous
Supplie s and miscell aneous

Increas e
{Decre ase)

1964

$ 16,500
5,000

$ 15,891
2,952

$ 13.108

3,704

$2.783
{752)

· 10 . 203

(553)

11,000

10,756

850

850

850

12 ,000
38,100

12.000
37,420

12,000
37, 146

600

600

600

2,366

l.950

416

2,700

2, 700
3,800
900
6,000
29,000

12 ,794
2. 689
3,812
900
6,000
26.909

13.175

(381)
2,689
122

11.000
800
3. 70Q

8,581
181
4.077

6,925
l,354
3. 552

1,656
(1,173)

$UJ I !iQi

$LJill,.

158.150
Additio nal authori~ed by
Grand Master

~

Budget
~

13. 500

$Htl,n: i

SCHEDULE 5

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

3,690
900
6,000
27 '894

4!5
$15 8 ,565.

274

(985)

_ill.

llM

$ 4.650 $ 4. 322
Activiti es Committe e
l. 504
2,000
Board of Control
18 9
750
Charters Committe e
l,066
L570
Columbia Temple Committe e
Constitu tion Observan ce
545
750
Committ ee
l. 579
4, 500
Commiss ion on Masonic Practice s
3
750
De Mo lay Committe e
12,312
12. 3 25
Employm ent Bureaus
15,119
17.000
Endowme nt Board
500
History Committ ee
l. 23 1
2,000
Commi t tee on Mas onic Educatio n
2 .861
J,000
Lodge Financin g Committe e
Memorial Temple - campaign
1.565
500
,
l
expense
13
1,500
Comm ittee on Public Schools
420
1,000
Committe e on Commerc ialism
2,009
3,500
Sojourne r s Committe e
Univers ity Clubhou ses:
22,650
22.850
Berke l ey
21, 750
21.750
Los ~ngeles
150
Code Commissi on
216
500
Investme nt CO<Mlitt ee
2,500
500
Relief Fund - Grand Master
2,741
5,610
Committe e on Masonic Cemeter ies
Committ ee on Masonic
491
1,000
Informa tion
756
950
Library Commiss ion
Committ ee on Old Masonic
703
1,500
Hall, Los Angeles
Grand Lodge leg al e1epense
Boards o f Relief - reimbur sement for Sojourn ers

112, 105

Addition al authoriz ed
by Grand Master

$~

$

2,928
2.074
4 33
964

$ 1,394
(570)
(244)
122

479
4,627
403
12,312
17,071
29
1.603
3.139

66
(3,246)
(400)

915
669
646
43

650
(676)
(226)
1,966

19 , 100
20.530

3,750
l. 220

357
4.795
4,992

(141)
(2,295)
(2,251)

584
966

(93)
(206)

146
1,569

555
(1,569)

:iQ

_ill)

rn21 jjjjjj

$~)

2,100
$~

The accompan ying notes are an integral
part o f the financia l stateme nts.

The accompa nying notes are an integra l
part of the fi nancial stateme nts.

Increase
{~£re11ul

li§.l

(1. 952)

(29)
(372)
(276)

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
G~D

LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMDITS
June 30, 1964

363

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL AUDIT OF RETURNS
LYBRAND. Ross BRos. &. MONTGOMERY
CEfl'TIP'IED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
ONE

1.

BUSH

STREET

SAN FRANCISCO 4

Basis of Accounting:

YUKON 1·933~

The financial statements are stated.on the cash basis of
accounting. Transactions generally are recorded at the time of the
receipt or payment of cash. Current operating expense bills unpaid
were of nominal amount.
2.

Furniture and Fixtures:

Grand Lodge at the 1957 Communication approved the capitalization of amounts expended for furnishings and equipnent .after that
date. Additions during the years ended June 30, 1964 .and 19~3 amounted
to $1,924 and $2,674, respectively. Depreciation of this asset is not ·
being taken into account in the financial statements.
3 •. Insurance Premiums Adyanced for Lodges:
Comprehensive liability insurance is purchased by Grand
Lodge on a three-year basis to cover the Lodges not otherwise covered
by such insurance. Premiums are collected from the covered Lodges
on an annual premium basis.
4.

Reserve for "California Freemason":

The 1958 Communication authorized the establishment of the
Reserve for ·"California Freemason" to provide for the time when the
cash receipts, due to the prior prepayment of subscriptions, may not
equal the current expenses of publishing the magazine. The 1963
.communication appropriated $4,941 to be transferred to the Reserve
during the year ended June 30, 1964. 'lllis was the excess of cash
receipts for subscriptions over publication payments for the year
ended June 30, 1963. The Reserve amounted to $40,109 at June 30, 1964.
Approximately 337, 000 individual copies of future issues of "CaliforniaFreemason" were subscribed and paid for at June 30, 1964 at rates of
15 to 25 cents per copy.
5.

GooPBR.l!I 8. LYBBAlfn
INAllEMO,Tlll-LD

OUT'lllOI TMC UNITU •TAft9

The Most Worshipful Grand .Lodge of
Free . and Accepted Masons of the
State of - California,
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
1111" California Street,
San Francisco 8, California.
We 'have made an examination of the 1964 Annual Returns
of the 'constituent Lodge's of GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIF,ORNIA,
reporting on membership and . on ·the payments due Grand Lodge in
accordance with the ·provisione of the Constitution and Ordinances
and the action taken by Grand Lodge at thP 1963 annual· communication.
our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing · standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records .•nd such other auditing procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances.
'!he total payments due Grand Lodge, based upon the 1964
annual returns, amount .to $1, 072, 582, as shown by the accompanying
statement. At the date of this ·report, this amount had been
collected in full and transferred to the Grand Treasurer, with
the exce'ption of a balance of $760 arising from corrections · in
the returns which was in process of adjustment at the date of this
report.

. ~/~.77

Contingent Liability: ·

Under authorization given at the 1953 Communication , Grand
Lodge is the guarantor of notes payable by California Masonic Memorial
Temple. The original amounts of these notes totaled $3, 000, 000 which
has been reduced to $779,790 at June 30, 1964.

August 28, 1964

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

365

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

364

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT
GRllND LODGE, F.

&

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
LYDRAND. Ross BRos. r... MONTGOMERY

STl\TEMENT OF 1964 ANNUAL RETURNS
Period Wben Received
Fiscal
July l, 1964
Through
Total per Year Ended
August 28,
1964 Annual June 30.
1964
1964
Returns

CCRTH'll'.0 PUl!ILIC ACCOUNTANTS

ONr:

BuSH

STRE!.l'

SAN FRANCISCO ...
YUl(ON l•S.U.J

o,rrcr.s 1" ""''

Grand Lodge support
and activities t
Master Masons on

June 30, 1964

244,814

Less, members of

Research Lodges
Members at.her than
of Research
Lodges

To the Trustees of Masonic

244,499

Homes of California,

Less, members for

whom per ca pi ta
waived. (including
dues remitted)

1111 California Street,

Balance of members

~
240,995 $ 1.35

Degrees conferred
in year ended
June 30. 1964

18. 069 $ 1.00

Masonic Homes of
California:
Balance of members
on June 30, 1964,
as above

Contributions of
initiates and
affiliates
California Masonic
Memorial Temple:
Balance of members
on June 30. 1964,
as above

Contributions of
initiates

$

$325.343

J25,34J

San Francisco, California 94108.
We have examined the statement of assets, liabilities.

18.065!
343 .4U

reserves, and fund balances of MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNII\, a
California nonprofit corporation, as of June 30, 1964, and the
related statement of General Fund revenue received and expense

240,995 $ 1.00
7,306 $25.00

240,995

240,995
l!l2,6~0

423. 645

disbursed for the year then ended.

Our examination was made in

ac'cordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and

$ill...2.QQ

llLlQQ

~
~

accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and sue
other auditing procedures as we consiaered necessary in the
circwnst~nces.

We previously examined and reported upon the

financial statements for the year ended June 30, 19&3.
240,995 $ 1.00

240,995

6,453 $ 9.00

5!l,Q71
299,on

240 '995

..,.il...!ill.

_il..Qil

___li&ll

lli....QQ1.

In our opinion, the accompanying statements present
fairly the assets, liabilities, reserves. and fund balance s of
Masonic Homes of California at June 30, 1964 and 1963, arising
primarily from cash transactions, and the revenue received and

George Washington
Maso nic National
Memorial:
Contributions of
initiates

Total

expense disbursed by it and the changes in re s erves and in fund
6,453 $ 1.00

6,421

__Llfil.

~

$1,Qli:.~fl•

$~

$~

balances during the years then ended, on a consistent basis.

366

P ROCE EDIN GS O F THE

MASON!t HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
~i bit

A

Exhi bit B
Exhi b it c
EXh ibit D
Exhi bit E
Exhi bit F
Exh ibit G
Exh ibit H
Exhi bit I
Exhi bit J
Exhi bit )(
Exhi bit L
£Xhi bi t M
Exhi bit N
Sche du l e l

Sche dule 2
Sche dule 3
Sche dule 4
Sch edule 5
Two 11age s

State ment of asse ts, liab iliti es,
r es erve s,
and fund bala nces
Sta teme nt of Gene ral Fund r even
ue rece ived
and expe nse disb urse d
Gene ral Fund
Pr oper ty Fund
Rese rves for s peci al purp oses
Endm;me nt and trus t f unds
Perm~nent Endow ment Fund
John and Lena Luck enba ch Fund
Geor y e F. Brigh am and Laur a E.
Brigh am
Scho larsh ip Fund
Geor ge M. and Flor ence G. Perin
e
End0'1!tlent Fund
Harr iet C. Wadle igh Endo wmen t
Annu ity Fund
c . N. Flin t Trus t Fund
s t ude nts' Loan and s chol arsh ip
Fund
Resi dent s ' acco unts
Inve stme nts
(Con solid ated s chedule of
inve stme nts. othe r than
inve stme nts of the
Perm anen t Endo"111\ent Fund )
Inve stme nts - Permanen t Endowmen
t
of Maso nic Home s of Cali fo rnia Fund
Deta il of rese rves f or spec ial
purp oses
Deta il s of expe nse
Deta il .of prop erty a ddi tion s
Note s to fina ncia l statement s

GRA NO LODG E OF Cl\ LIPO RNll \

367

MASONIC HOl'\!:S OF CALlFORNlA
ElQIIBIT A
STAT!:MJ!NT OF ASSETS, LIAB ILITI ES.
RESERVES , .AND FUND BALANCES
June 30, 1964 and 1963
A S S E T S1
Gene ral Fund and Rese rves :
Cash
Inve stme n ts at book valu e ,
Sche dule 1 (Note 2):
Bond s (a ppro xima te mark et valu
e
$l , 456, 17l· and $861 ,294)
Pref erred stoc k (appr oximate mark
et
valu e $20,6 50 a nd $75 ,375)
Common stock (app roxim ate mark
et
valu e $1.58 7 ,759 a nd $1,9 61 ,630)
Tota l (appr oxim ate mark et
valu e $3,0 64,5 80 an d
$2,89 8 , 299)
Note s rece ivab le {Not e 3 )
Othe r asse ts (No te 4)
Tota l a s sets - ~eneral Fund
and Rese rves
Prop erty Fund - land , build ings
equip ment , Exhi bit O (Rote 5) , a nd
Endo "1111ent a nd trus t fun ds - pr
pall
cash and secu ritie s, Exhi bit inci
F
y

l 9 6 4
779.9 86

$ L 180. 066

1 , 517. 7 19

920,0 81

20, 791

95 , 479

1.20 8.65 1

l. 611. 552

2 . 747.1 61
165, 743
S.04 5

2I62 7 !112
215,1 82

3.69 7,93 5

4 ,028 , 09 1

6,43 6,76 2

5,49 7 , 739

$

Prop erty Fund bala nce, Exhi bit
o
Endo wme nt and trus t fund bala nces
,
Exhi bit F

5 .731

15 . 726 . 312

14. 038, 010

$25 .861 .009

$23. 563. 840

$

$

LIABI LITIE S , RESERVES,
.\NO FUND BAL.\NCES:
Gene ral Fund a~d Rese rves:
Accr ued expe nse
Reser~es for spec i al
purp oses ,
Exhi bi t E (Note 6)
Gene ra l Fund bala nce. Exhi bit
c

l 9 6 3

26.56 2

28.15 7

2 . 87 2, 7 27
798. 646
3,69 7.93 5
6,4)6 ,762

3 ,399 , 316
600 , 61 8
4 ,028 ,091
5, 497.7 3 9

l5,22 §,,U 2

H,OJ !l, QlO

$,:i ,!lfil .llll:ii

$,JI :ifiJ 1 ll~ll

Th e ac comp anyin g note s are an
inte
part of the fina ncia l &ta temen tagral
.

369

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

368

EXHIBIT C

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN IA

August 28, 1964
EXHIBIT B

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN IA

GENERAL FUND
For the years e nded June 30, 1 964 and 1963

STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUN D REVE NUE RECEIVED
AND EXPENSE DISBURSED
For the years ended J une 30, 1964 an~ 1963

l 9 6 4

l 9 6 3

l 9 6 4
Revenue received from:
Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. , per an nual
returns:
Membershi p at $1 per capita
Contribu tions of initiates and
affiliate s at $25 each

240 ,979

$

1 78. 700
419,67 9
1 . 700
417,979

177' 240
418,031
1, 725
416.30 6

486,936

474 ,060

2,747
7
489,690

3 , 010
35
4 77 .1 05

8,920
20,539
11, 046
38,255
Sl. 677
130 , 437

1 7,317
24.028
13 ,.a64
23,838
69,008
147 , 555

21. 7 00
28.520
50 .220
2 .260

24, 562
23 .455
48,017
5 ,564

1,090 . 586

1.09 4,547

l.167. 052
3 23, 463
16.660

1,09 6 ,070
280,573
17.69.6

l. 507, 175

l, 394. 3 39

Less, adjustme nts for previo us y ears
.Endowmer .t a nd trust funds income:
Pe rmanent Endowmen t Fund, Exhibit G
Joh n and Lena Luckenba ch Fund,
Exhibi t H
(Note 7)
Leonard Gross Memorial Fund
Investme nt income:
Interest on :
Blink~: saving s. a cc o unt~
Time certific ate of deposit
Notes receivabl e
Bond s
Dividends on stocks
Payment s through Lodge s fo r:
Decoto r esidents
Covina re s iden ts
Other income
Total revenue

240, 791

$

salance, beginning of yea r
Add, transfe rs f r om reserves
for spec ial p urposes :
From Covina Reserve for the
followi ng Cov ina Home
operating expens es of the
cur r ent y e a r:
Hospital and medica l
Fa rm a nd g rounds
From Deco t o Reser•1e f or
Grand Lodge tri ps to Decoto
duri n g a n nual commun ica ti ons
From Unapprop ri ated Reserve
in an amount equivale nt t o
t he pens ions assigned by
res ide nts of the Decoto
Home in the cu r re n t year

$

Net g ain or {loss ) on sal e of
securi ties

Admini s trative and g eneral
Total expense
Excess of expense over
revenue. Exhibit c

$

93,921

94,746

l.60L096

1 . 489.085

510 . 510

The accompan ying n otes are an integral
part o f the fi nancial statemen t a.

$

19. 41 6
35,100

16,5 3 5
2 7 ,982

3, 705

6, 21 0

263,536

234,034

386,78 1

p9,878)
99 5 , 15 6

5 10,5 10

394,538

7 2fil, 2S2

$§QQ , 2.l.!i!

s

Expense, Schedule 4 (Note 7) :

Operatio n o f Maso nic Homes:
Deco to Home
Covina Home
Relief o utside of Masonic Home:;
Total expense of homes a nj
r elief

600,618

l ,309,156
Less, e xcess o f expense over
revenue fo r the year, Exhibit D
Balance, end of y ea r,
Exh ibi t A.

l 9 6 3
$730,273

394 , 538

Th• accomp a nying notes are an integral
part of the financial s tatement •.

371

GRAN D LODG E OF CALI FORN IA
PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

370

EXHIBIT D

MASONIC HONES OF CALIF ORNI A

RESERVES FOR SPEC IAL PURPOSES
June 30 , 1964 and 1963

PROPERTY FUND
8AI>.NCE
STATEMENT OF ASSE TS AND FUND
June 30, 1964 and 1963

AS S E T S:
Land , build ings , and equip ment
(Note 5):
De co to Horne
Covin a Home
san Fran cisco of fica
Tota l asse ts

Sche dule J,
Page

1 9 6 3

1 9 6 ·4

$5 , 412, 729
1,019 ,739
4 294

$4,51 0,596
962,9 74
4,169

$6.43 6.762

$5.49 7.739

Covin a Home , from:
Rese rve for Addi tions and
Re place men ta
Covin a Rese rve

$5,49 7,739

$5,06 7,575

250,0 00
439 ,741

6, 097
22,07 3
396,4 50

Balan ce, end of year

l

$

273 , 199

902!1 33

36 765
36,76 5

5 544

125
939,0 2 3

430 ,164

$6.43 6.762

$5.49 7.739

3

Rese rve
Covin a Ente rtain ment Rese rve

4

1,004 ,536

l,003 ,385

5

2,361

2,500

Deco to Ente rtain ment Rese rve
Fune ral Res erve (Note 7)

5

4 , 229

Unappropr~ated

Tota l, Exhi bit A

Maso nic
Perm anent Endow ment Fund of the
Homee of Cali forn ia, Exhib i t G
, Exhi bit H
John and Lena Lucke nbach Fund
Brigh am
E.
Laura
and
am
Brigh
Geor ge F.
Scho larsh ip ~~nd, Exhi bit I
ne End owme nt
Geor ge M. and Flore nce G. Peri
Fund, Exhi bit J
Annu ity Fund ,
Harr iet c. Wadl eigh Endow ment
Exhi bit K
N- Flin t Trus t Fund, Exhib it L

2,500
93 ,000
3,635

$2. 87 2. 72 7

$3.3 99 .316

EXHIBIT F

ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS
June 30 , 1964 and 1963
196 4

19 63

$15, 161, 522
81,02 2

$ 13 , 487,5 56
78,14 4

41 ,537

42 ,396

20,37 9

2 0, 3 7 9

c.

Fund ,
Stud ents' T..oan and Scho larsh ip
Exh ibit M
Resi dent• ' Acco unts, Exhibit~
7)
Leon ard Gross Me mori al Fund (Note
Tota l, Exhi bit A

1 0, 132

11, 4 15

330,1 79

323 . 998

22,25 2

17 ' 228
55,96 9

59,26 9

925
$ j,~,

Z2§, H~

integ ral
The a ccomp a nying notes are an
s.
part of the f i nanc ia l state ment
integ ral
The accom pan;· ing notes are an
nt s.
part of the finan cial state me

491 ,586
1,155 ,590
64 7, 120

Deco to Rese rve

424, 6 20

522
5,022

$

1 ,183, 766
404,6 16

2

212,3 92

San Fran cisco o ffice , from:
Rese rve for Addi tions and
Repla ceme nts
Tota l addi tions

Rese rve for Addi tions and
Repla ceme nts
Covin a Reser ve

l 9 6 3

1 9 6 4

7)
Maj or Pro jects Rese rve (Note

FUND BJ\I.J>.NCE:
Bala nce, begin ning of year
Addi tions (S::he dule 5) to:
Deco to Home:, from :
Rese rve for Addi tions and
Repla ceme nts
Deco to Rese rve
7)
Majo r Proj ects Rese rve (Note
Unap propr iate d Rese rve

EXHI BIT E

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

$ j,4,1,?~!il.~1 Q

373

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

372

EXHIBIT H

MASONIC HOMES OF CA LIFORNIA

EXHIBIT G

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN IA

JOHN AND LENA LUCJ<ENDACH FUND

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND
that no
The principa l is restri cted by ordinance s of Grand Lodge so
and
part of the principa l sha ll ever be expended for any p u rp ose,
and
the income therefrom shall be used only for the maintenan ce
general operation of the Masonic Homes .

kept intact
The principa l is restricte d ~y the terms of the W'ill to be
or the
and the income used only for the benefi t of the care of orphans
aged in Mas onic Homes of Southern Californ ia.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1964 and 1963

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1964 and 1963
l

A S S E T S:

Savings account
Investme nts (at bo ok value), Schedule 2:
Bonds (approxim ate ma rket value
$7,979,34 0 and $4,534,63 1)
Preferred stock (approximate market
value $ 221,488 and $392,450)
Coll'lllon s tock (approxim ate market
value $7,063,34 1 and $8,322 ,4 98)
Total securitie s (app r oxima te
market val u e $15,264,1 69
and $13,249,5 79)
Notes receivabl e (Note 3)
o ther assets (Note 4)
To tal assets

$

A S S E

1 9 6 3

9 6 4
628 ,8 51

$ 1, 072,839

8,233,916

4,747,791

240,991

416,699

6,021,859

7,210,284

14,496, 766
35' 889
16

12, 374, 774
39 , 9 2 6
17

$15.16 L i l l

$13,487.5 56

$13,487,5 56

$ 12,406,10 2

734,959

697 ,904

48,014
1 06,662
764,887

48,441
124,369
1 92,9 46

5,252
13,267

4, 798
12,996

FUND BALANCE:
Balance , beginning of year
Increase in fund:
Contribut ions made through Lodges
Progress payments on p ledges unalloca ted
Bequests
Net gain on s ale of securitie s
contribu tions from organiza tions
and individua ls
Memo ri als
Transfer from Leonard Gross Memorial
Fun d (Note 7)
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

925
$J.~ . j,61, ~22

$l,3 ,4!P.~~§

S:

Savings account
lnvestme nts (at book value), schedul e 1:
Bond s (approxim ate market value $42,758
and $27,981)
Commo n stock (approxim ate market value
$30,388 and $47,672)
T o tal securitie s (approxim ate
market value $73,146 and
$75,653)
'Iotal assets
F U~D

Balance, beginning of yea r
Gain on sale of securitie s
Balance, end of year,

E~hibit

F

$

11, 502
118,583
341,661
2,266
48

$

~Z4,2§2

1 9 6 3

$-2.....ill

$~

44, 720

29,753

30,666

47,342

75,386

77 ! 09 5

$~

$1.lL..lli

$78, 144

$77,832

~

_fil

$ti..Qll

$~

l 9 6 4

l 9 6 3

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30 , 1964 and 1963

I nterest on bank acc ount
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks

1 9 6 3

l 9 6 4

1 9 6 4

BALANCE:

Revenue tra nsferred to General
Fund income, Exhibit R

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECE I VED
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963
15, 729
$
Interest on bank accounts
1 95,024
Interest on bonds
273 , 917
Dividends on sto cks
2 ,208
Interest on notes receivabl e
58
Net income from real estate
Revenue transferr ed to General
$
4!l§ 2~~
Fund income, Exhibit B
The accompanyin~ notee are an integral
part of the financial e ta tementa.

r

The accompany ing notes are an integral
part of the financial etatemen te.

1, 359

74
963

S...l...lil

$~

$

8

$

~·I~

375

GR/I.ND LODG E OP CALI FORN I.\
l'ROC .EEDI NGS O F THE

374

EXHIBIT I

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUND

the 'bene fit

a schol srahi p fund for
The princ ipal ii held in truet ae 00 of which may be loane d for thia
of the Covin a Home reaid ent•, $25,0
only for
incom e i1 restr icted and may be u1ed
purpo se, and the
provi ding scho larsh ip•.

GEORGE M, AND FLORENCE G. PERINE
ENDOWMENT FUND
sion inc l uded in the Will of the
The princ ipal is subje ct to the provi
t and the incom e there of only
intac
kept
e
b
shall
it
te1ta tor, that
Deco to Home.
the
of
fit
bene
the
for
used
be
shall
BALANCE
S'rA!E MENl' OF ASSE rs AND FUND
June 30 1 1964 and 1963

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BAIANCE
June 30, 1964 and 1963

1 9 6 4

1 9 6 3

S-1.d l.Q

$_L..l l.Q

10 , 000

1 0,000

-1..lQ.2.

9 , 109

$17,4 94)

19, 109

19 , 1 09

Total asset s

s~

$~

$£Q.. lll

$lQ.J .ll

196 4

1963

10
350
~

$

A S S E TS ;

savin gs accou nt
A S S E T 81

savin gs accou nt

1 9 6 4

1 9 6 3

$.....L 2ll

$~

11
Inves tmen ts (at book value ), Sched ule
value
et
mark
ate
oxim
(appr
Bonds
$21,8 80 and $21,6 86)
Common stock (appr oxim ate mark et
value $~0,275 and $20,4 75)
Total eecu ritiee (appr oxim ate
mark et value $42,1 55 and

22,10 1

22,56 7

17,92 4

17,92 4

40,02 5

40,49 1

$~

su...m

$42 396

$37,2 96

_lil l)

_h!Q. Q

$~

$il..l i§

$42, 161)

Total asset s

EXHIBIT J

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

l:
Inves tmen ts (at book value ), Sched ule
6 a nd
$8,90
ue
l
va
t
marke
Bonds ( appro ximat e
$9. 044}
Commo n stock ( appro ximat e marke t value
$9,01 3 and $8, 45 0)
Total secu rities (appr oxim ate
mark et value $17,9 19 and

FUND Bl\L/UiCE:
Balen ce, e nd of year , Exhi bit F

FUND BALANCE:

Balan ce, begin ning of year
Net gain or (lose ) on sale of secu rities
Balan ce, end of year, Exhi bit F

I

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED 1963
For the years ende d June 30, 1964 and
l 9 6 4
Inter est on bank accou nt
Inter est on bonds
Divid ends . on s tocks
Reven ue trans ferre d to Stude nts'
Loan and Scho larsh ip Fund,
Exhi bit M

ral
The accom panyi ng notes are an integ
part of the finan cial state ment s.

l 9 6 3
$

728
$
~

65
739

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
19 63
For the years ended June 30, 1 964 and

Inte= e3t on bank accou nt
Inter est on bond s
Divid e nds on stock s
Reven ue trans ferre d t o Decot o
Reser ve, page 3 of
Sched u le 3

_1.Q..Q.

ral
The accom panyi ng notes are a n integ
part of t he f i nanc ial s ta t emen ts.

$

42

JSO
~

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT K

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT
ANNUITY FUND .

STATEMENT OF ASSETS ANO FUND BAU>.NCE
June 30, 1964 and 1963

Tota l assets
FUND BALANCE:
'Balance, beginning of year
Less, l oss on sale of securi ties
Less, excess of annuities o ver revenue

'

Ba l a nc e , end o f · year , Exhibit F

EXHIBIT L

C . N. FLINT TRUST FUND

This fund, in the origina l amount of $30,000, i5 sub ject :to a contract
with the donor providing for the payment of certain life annuities out
of the principal and income thereof. Under the terms of the contract,
only principal of the fund expended in payment of the annuitie s ie to
be later restored o ut o f income to the fund when the annuiti e s no
l onger absorb the enti re income. After restoration of the princ ipal
to the original s um of $30,000, the income from the fund is to be used
for the benefi t of the residents of the Covina Harne.

A S S E TS :
savings -account
.
I
Investments (at book . value), Schedule 1:
Bonds (approximate market value $4,600)
Common stoc k (approximate market value
$8,4 38 and $7,900)
Total s ecuri ties (approximate
market value $8,438 and $ 12,500)

377

1 9 6 4

l

$~

$_illl)

9 6 3

5,000
6,647

~

6,647

11 , 647

$1.2....lJl

$1.l......iU

$11,415

$ 12,367

__.!.!§.
10,997
~

_fil

$~

$ll...ill

12,367

The principal consists of gifts from c. N. Flint. The i ncome from
the fund has b ee n designated by the tru s tees for use at t h e Decoto
Home.
STATE.'IENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1964 a nd 1963
AS S E TS:
savings account
I nvestments (at book va lue ), schedu le 1:
Bonds (approximate market value
$220,5 38 and $ 1 90,595)
Preferred s t ock (approximate market
value $ 1 0,050 a nd $21 , 000 )
Cor:unon stock {approxi mate market
va lue $135,969 and $150,607)
Total se curitie s (approximate
mar ket va l ue $336, 557 and

1 9 6 4
$ 13.060

Excess of annuities over revenue
The accompanying notes are an integral
part o f the f inancial statements,

$

225,930

195,259

11 , 451

21 ,940
98,695

$362,202 )

317, 119

315, 894

Total assets

$330 ,179

$32 3. 928

$323,998

$317,250

6, 181

6 , 748

srn2. 112

$3 ~~.22~

FUND BALANCEo
Balance, beginning of year
Net gain on sale of secu riti es
Balance, end of year, Exhib it F

. STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, l964 and 1963
1 9 6 4

l 9 6 4

l 9 6 3

$._.h_lli

$~

77

11

92

125

---2ll

_lg

~

~

$-W

$~

8.104

79 738

STATEMENT OF ANNUITIES PAID ANO REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended J une 30, 19 64 and 1963

Annuities paid as required by the agreement
Less, revenue:
Interest on bank accounts
I nt e rest on bonds
Dividends on 5toc ks

1 9 6 3

Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Interest on ba nk account
Revenue tra ns ferred to De coto
Res erve, page 3 of Schedule 3

The a ccompanying notes are an i ntegral
p art of the financial statements.

1 9 6 3

7,497
4,931
89

$

1,980
1 0,884
2 79

$ •~.az

$

·~.l:i~

$

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPORNI/\

379

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT N

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

378

EXHIBIT M

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

RESIDENTS ' ACCOUNTS

STUDENTS ' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

The principal arises from gifts. The income of the fund is
designated by the trustees for use for student loan and scholarship
purposes.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1964 and 1963

A

S S E T S:

savings account

1 9 6 4

1 9 6 3

$12, 1 25

$ 2,220

Investroents (at book value), Schedule 1:
Common stock (approximate market
value $9,969 and $16,628)
Total assets
FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year

$17,228

Gain on sa l e of securities

3,635

-1.....ill

.....l....2ll

$~

$J.l...m

Net revenue
Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

$13,310

STATEMENT OF NET REVENUE
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

$

George F. Brighan1 and Laura E. Brighan1
· Scholarship Fund income, Exhibit I
Gifts from individuals and organi2ations
Total revenue received
Loans for educational purposes
Net revenue
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1964 and 1963

A S S E T S:

1 9 6 4

l 9 6 3

Cash
Investments (at book value), Schedule li
Bonds (approximate market value
$24.575 and $9,788)
Canmon stock (approximate market value
$13,722 and $25,814)
Total securities (approximate
market value $38,297 and

$21. 629

$~

24,900

9,875

.li...1fil!.

lL..ill

$35,602)

..3.1..&§.Q

.Jl....J.il

Total assets

$~

$~

$55,969
.....L.liQ

$45,983
~

$~

$~

FUND BALANCE:
Residents' accounts:
Ba l ance, beginning of year
Net additions
Balance, end of year , Exhibit F

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

l..9 6 4

Revenue rece ived frorn investments:
Interest on bank account
Dividends on stocks

This fund consists of amounts held in trust for the residents of
the Covina and Decato Homes.

1 9 6 3

l. 058

94
_..2ll
753

1,528

1.504

_L2li.

.....1...lli

194

_..eM

4,102

$

6,603

-1...1ll

~

$~

$...l...m

1 9 6 4

Interest on bank account
Dividends on stocka
Gain on aale of securities
Interest on bonds
Revenue transferred to Decato
Reserve, page 3 of Schedule 3
The accompanying note• are an integral
part of the financial atatement• .

$

120
1, 354

l 9 6 3
$

394

l,844

8,335

1,428

~

_illi)

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOM.ES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDU!,E 1
Page 1

(Consolidated schedule of invesl:Jllents, other than
investments of the Permanent Endo'W!Tient Fund)

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

~

Book Value

15,000
75,000
25,000
50,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
205,000
30.000
10.000
15,000
27,000
12,000
30,000
20,000
100,000
10.000
10,000

Book Value
Forward

Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company
$
Equi?"ent Trust, 4-1 / 4%, 8/1 / 69
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company
Equipne nt Trust, 4-1/4%, 8/1/69
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company
Equipncnt Trust, 4-1/4~. 8 / 1/ 69
Chicago , Burlington & Quincy R., R.
Equipnent Trust, 3-7 / 8%. 6 / 1/zo
Chicago, Burlington & Quinc y R •• R.
Equipment Trust, 3-7/ 8%, 6/ 1/70
Douglas Aircraft Co., 4%, 2/1/77
Dresser Ind ustries. 4-1/ 8% , 3/1/77
810 south Spring Building Co ., 6-1/2~ , 6 / 1/66
Federal Home Loan Bank , 4. 1%, 4 / 15 / 65
Federal Ho.~e Loan Bank, 4. 1% , 4 / 15/ 65
Federal Home Loan Bank , 4-1/ 8%, 8 / 15/ 66
Federal Home Loan Bank , 4-1/ 8%, 8 / 1 5/66
Federal Home Loan Bank, 4 -1/ 8%, 8 / 15/ 66
Federal Home Loan Bank, 4-1/8%, 8/15/ 6 6
Federal Land Banks, 4%, 6/20/68
Federal Land Banks, 4%, 6/ 20/68
Great North e rn Ry. Co. Equipnent Trust
No. 2, 4%, 6/ 1/ 68
Great Northern Ry. co. Equipnent Trust
.
No·. 2. 4%, 6/ 1/ 68
Gulf Mobile & Ohio R. R . Co. Equiµnent
.
Trust. 4-1/8%, 8/1/68
Louisv il l e and Nashville R. R.. Equipment
.
Trust. s eries EE, 4%, 3 / 15/71
Louisville and Nashville R. R. Equ1EX11ent
Trust, Series EE, 4%, 3/ 15/71

$

733,560

55,137
30,075-F
15,037-L
7 4,440
24,811-F
45,189
4,822
4,344
5,003-F
5,003-L
205 , 010
30 , 042-F
10,017-B
15,025-R
~7.192

$ 30,000
30,000
10 . 000
50 , 000
15,000
15 . 000
10.000
60,000
30,0()'J

1 2,0a4-B

10.000

3 0 , 134-F

50 , 000

20,089

320,000
25,000
200,000
4,250
191,000
12,000
15 , 000
10 , 000
12.']00
5,000
10,000

100,106
10,000
10,000-F
~

Forward

(Continued)

zace Val ue

face Value

30,000

SCllEDULE l
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

$ 55,000

381

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

380

733,560

Norfolk and Western Ry. Equipnent Trust,
S~ri e s J, 4%, 5/1/70
Norfol k and Weste rn Ry. Equipne n t Trust,
Series I, 3-7 / 8% , 1/ 1/ 72
Norfo l k and Western Ry . Equipnent Trust.
Series I, 3-7 / 8% , 1/ 1/ 72
Norfolk and Western Ry . Equipnent Trust,
Seri es J. 4%, 5/1/7 0
Seabo a rd Air Line R. R. Equipnent Trust,
Series w, 4% , 2/1 / 71
Seaboard Air Line R. R. Equipnent Trust,
series w, 4%, 2/1/7 1
Southern Pacific R. R. Equipnen t Trust
No . 19 , 3-7/ 8%, 1/1 / 71
Southern Ry. Company Equ ipnent Trust.
Series Fl.AA, 4-3/8%, 3/16/ 68
Southern Ry. Company Equipnent Trust,
Se ries ZZ, 4%. 8 / 1 5 /70
Southern Ry. Company Equipnent Trust,
Se ries ZZ, 4% , 8 / 15/7 0
Texas and Pacific Ry . Company Equiµnent
Trust , Series V, 4-1/ 8% . 7/ 1/ 68
U. S.'Treasury Bo n 1s , 2-1/ 2%, 9/15/ 72
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/ 2%, 9/ 1 5/72
u. S.-Treasury Bo nds, 4%. 2/ 15/ 69
U. S, Treasury Bonds , 2-1/2%, 9 / 15/72-67
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3- 1 /2%,. 2 / 15/90
U. S . Treasury Bo nds, 3-1/2%, 2/ 15/90
U, S . Tr e a sury Bonds , 3-1/ 2%, 2/ 1 5/90
U. S. Treas ury Bonds , 3-1/ 2%. 11/ 15/ 98
Virgini an RY.- Company, 6%, 8 / 1/ 08
~eeling S tee l Corp., .3-3/ 4%, 11/ 15/ 75
Wheeling Steel Corp. , 3- 3/4%, 11 / 15/ 75
One bond - nominal value
Total bonds

30,000-F
29,624
9 , 875-R
50,000
14,951
14, 949-F
9 , 888
60,420
30,000
10,000-F
5 0 , 054
313 '7 55
24,297-F
200,063
3,753
194.050
11.45 3-F
14,384-L
10,000-P
l !l.03 1
5.166-F
10,296-L
1

.l,045.370

382

<;RAND LODGE 01' CJ\Ul'ORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE
Ml\SONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN IA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A

saiEDULE l
Page 3

(Consolid ated schedule of investme nts, other than
investmen t s of the Pennanen t Endo"1tnen t Fund)

(Consolid ated schedu le of inve s tments. other than
investme nts o f the Permanen t Endowmen t r~nd)

COMMON STOCK (Continue d.)

PREF ERRED STOCl<

l, 100
100
200

Forward
~

10,327
11.451-F
10 .4 64
32 .242

COMMON STOCK

100
400
100
250
700
257
100
300
100
160
200
100
200
400
100
100
148
102
16
30
660
116
100
100
1 00
100
132
11.400
1.260
1 00
135

Book Value

!Jook Value
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical , 4-1/8%
0"1ens-Il linois Glass Co. , 4%
Perman e nte Cement Company. 5%

Alli e d Chemical Cor p.
Aluminum Company of Amer ica
Aluminum Company c f .Arae rica
Americ an Cyanamid Company
Associate s Investme nt Company
Bank o f Ame rica N.T. & S.A.
Beth lehem Steel Corpora tion
Champio n Pape rs, Inc.
C.I.T. Fi nancial Corporati on
Cle veland Electr ic Il luminatin g Comrany
Co lumb ia Gas system. Inc.
Columbi?. Gas Sys tem, Inc.
Columb ia Gas System, Inc.
Commer cial Credi t Company
Comrae rcial Credi t Company
Commercia l Credit Company
Conso l idated Edi son Company of New Yo rk , Inc.
Corona Foo thill Lemon Co.
Cosmopol i tan Re al t y c o.
Covina Irrig a ting Co.
Cr own Ze l l erbach Corporati on
Dow Chemical Company
Duquesne Li gh t Company
Du quesne Ligh t Company
Duque s ne Light Company
Ea s tman Kodak Company
El Pa so Natura l Gas Company
Fa irview Ext e n s ion Min i ng Com p~ny
Firema n ' s Fund In s uran ce Company
First Na t io n a l Bank of Hawai i
General El ec tric Company

6, 370
n.012
7 , 4 36-L
12.556
39 « 813
13 . 496
3 , 987
9 ,631
4,077-B
5,050
6,018
2.657-R
5, 641-F
1 5 , 446
3,990-B
3,989-F
11.574
30,600
3. 840
33

33,60 5
9 « 152
2, 884- R
2.664- S
2,684-W
11. 333
3.560
57
42' 867
6,083-F
6,961

400
33
300
304
102
20
100
300
100
400
144
104
200
100
200
100
100
100
100
200
1,300
100
217
100
500
100
200
300

too

100
100
200

300
129

100

200
800
303

104

General Motors Corporati on
General Public Utilities Corpora tion
B. F. Goodrich Company
Goodyear Ti re and Rub be r Co.
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co.
Gulf Oil Corpora tion
Her cu les Powder Company
Honeywel l, I nc.
I n g e rso ll-Rand Co.
Inla nd Stee l Co.
Insurance COlilpany of Nortri J\/!lerica
Interstat e Power Co.
Kaise r Aluminum and Chemical Corp.
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corp.
Kennecot t Copper Corp.
Kennecot t Copper Corp.
Ligg ett & Myeu Tobat:c: o·~Co;
Ligget t & Myers Tobacco Co .
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone S tar Gas Cpmpany
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas Company
Marathon Oil Company
National Lead Co.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporati on
Niagara Moh awk Power Corporati on
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Ediso n Company
Ohi o Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Oweno-Il lino is Glass Company
Parke , Davia & Co.
J. c. Penney co.
J.C. Penney Co.
Pennsylva nia Power a nd Light COlllpany
Philadelp hia Electric Company
Phillips Petroleum Company
Pittsburg h Plate Glass Company
Forward

For ward

SOiEDUI.E l
Page 4

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

~.

383

340 ,296

~

340,296
17 ,978
l,064
14. 142
13,939
4.604-F
693
4,265
44,611
8,748
18,520
1 0, 998
2 , 845
6,932
4,441-P
16,874
0,385-P
l l , 138
9,000-L
2,280-S
4,560-L
30,180
2,200-B
7,777
6.911
24 , 596
4,882-F
7,577-B
12,944- F
3, 788- L
4,660-P
3, 763-W
18,451
ll,501
6 , 036
4,970-F
7 , 176
24, 350
17,583
7 7,219-R
756,965

384

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR NIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR NIA

SOiEOUL E l
Page 5

INVESTl·lENTS
June 30, 1964

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

than
(Conso lidated s chedule of inves tments, other
investm ent s of the Pe rmanent Endowme nt Fun d)

than
(Consol ida te d schedul e of investm ente, other
investm ents of the Permane nt Endowm ent Fund)
~1MON

385

STOCK (Contin ued)
.Book Value

Forwa rd
Pittsbu rgh Plate Glass Com F8ny
105
Procter & Gamble Compan y
300
Ramona Savings and Loa n Associ ation
21
28-1/ 2 San Dimas Wate r Co.
Santa Rosa Savi ngs and Loan Associa tion
5 , 000
Scheri ng corp.
100
Securit y First Nation al Bank
3 50
Security First Nationa l Bank
1. 703
Smi th Kl i ne and French Labs
100
Socony Mobi l Oi l Company , I nc.
100
Souther n Natural Ga a Company
625
s outhern Re a lty Co .
253
Standar d Oil Company (Ca liforni a)
655
200
S tandard Oil Company (Indian a)
Standar d Oil Company (Ca liforn ia)
115
Standar d Oil Company (New J ersey)
506
standar d Oil Company (New Jersey )
100
Tenness ee Gas Transm ission Company
905
Tenne sse e Gas Transm ission Company
202
Texaco , Inc.
79
Texas Utiliti es Co.
200
Transam erica Corpo ration
433
Union Carbide Co rp.
1 00
Un ion El e ctric Company
300
Union Electri c Compan y
20 0
u nited S ta tes Gypsum Co.
138
United sta tes Ste el Co rporati on
250
United States Steel Corpor ation
100
Wells Fa rgo Bank
928
We lls Fargo Bank
330
Western Ban cor poratio n
411
P 1 W. Woolwo rth Co.
1,500
Fou r lots of sec uritie s, r elating ~o
Masoni c Temp les in certain Ca lifo rnia
cities, carri e d at a nominal value
Tota l cornrnon s tock
Total i nvestme nts

$

756,965
7,271
23, 400
16,800
2,080
145,000
5. 771
4 , 562-F
91,863
7, 096
4 , 843
29 , 220
399-f
36,899
6, 700
5,041-F
25,606
4,466-F
19 644
4,963-S
3 , 551
9 , 025
16,356
1 3 ,753
6,750
5, 716-F
13 , 822
19,032
. 5,682-L
23 , 362
8,056-F
14,515
35,012

es
The foregoi ng schedu le include s all the s ecuriti
~t the Mason ic Homes of Califo rnia, except those
i n the Permane nt Endowm ent Fund which a r e shown
on Schedul e 2. Se c urities a re cod e d for the
f o llowing funds:

B

George F . Brig ham and Laura E . Brigham
Schola rship Fund, £xhibi t I

F

C . ~I. Flint Tru st Fund, Exhib i t L

317,119

L

John and Len a Luck enbach Fund ,
D<hibi t . tt

75 , 386

P

George M. and Florenc e G. Perine
Endowm ent Fund, Exh ibit J

19,109

.Reside nts' Acc o unts, Exhibi t N

37,660

S

Studen ts' Loan and Scholar ship Fund,
Exhibi t M

10,127

W

Harrie t c . Wadl e igh Endp wment Annuity ,
Exhibi t K

6,647

R

-

$

40,025

!

1 . 375,(·22

(Uncode d)

Ge neral Fund, Exhibit A
To t al investm ents (Schedu le l,
page 5)

2,742,l f!l

$.3..253. 2]4

386

PRO CEE DIN GS OP THE

GRA ND LOD GE OP CAL IFOR

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR
NIA

srnE DUL E 2
Page l

PERMANENT ENOCMMENT FUND
OF
MASONIC HOMES OF CJ\LIFOR THE
NIA

ONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

~

100 ,000
100 ,000
50,0 00

so.ooo
100, 000
45,0 00
190 ,000
1.46 0,00 0
500 ,000
222. 000
500 .000
100 .000

so.ooo
100 ,000
100 ,000
100 .000
50,0 00
100 , 000

Book Valu e
Atl anti c Coa st Line R.
R. Equ ipne nt
Tru st, 4-1/ 8%, 9/1/ 68
Atla ntic coa st Line R.
R . Equ ipne nt
Tru st, 4- 1/8% , 9/1/
Che sape ake & Ohio Ry. 69
Co. Equ ipne nt
Tru st, 4-1/ 4%, 8/ 1/68
Chic ago, Bur ling ton & Quin
cy R. R.
Equ ipne nt Tru s t, 2-5/ 8%.
12/1 /65
Chic ago, Bu rlin gton & Qui
ncy R. R.
Equi pme n t Tru st, 4-~ /81"
. 7 / 1/68
Chic ago Roc k Isla nd Pac
ific
Equ ipne nt Tru st, 4-1/ 4%, R. R.
Dre sser Ind ustr ie s . 4- 1/8% 2/1/ 68
, 3 / 1/ 77
Fed eral HOl1'le Loan Ban k,
4.1% , 4 / 15/6 5
Fed eral Home Loan Ban k,
4-1/ 8%, 8 / 15/6 6
Fed er a l Inte rme diat e Cre
dit Ban k,
3. 95% , 9/1 / 64
Fed eral Land Ban k, 4%,
6/20 /68
Fed eral Nat iona l Mor tgag
e Ass ocia tion ,
4-1/ 8%. 8 / 10/7 1
Fed eral Na t i o na l Mor tgag
e Ass ocia tio n .
5-1/ 8",I. , l/10 /72
Gre at Nor ther n Ry. Co.
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
2-5/ 8%. 12/ 1/ 68
Gre at Nor ther n Ry. Co.
Equ ipne nt Tru st.
4%, 6 / 1 / 69
Gul f Mob i l e & Ohio R . R.
Co. Equ ipne nt
Tru st, 4-1/ 8%. 8 /l/6 9
Hun t Foo ds & Ind ustr ies,
4-3/ 8%, 7 / 1/86
Illi noi s Cen tral R. R.
Co. Equ ipne nt
Tru st, 2-S/ 8~ . 7 / 1/ 64
Lou isvi lle & ~a shville
R. R. Equ ipne nt
Tru st. 3-7/ 8%. 6/ 1/71

(Con tinu ed )

face Valu e
Book Valu e

$

Forw ard

79.7 32
98,8 32
100, 887
49,8 67
50,8 93
100 ,398
43,0 04
190 ,119
1.46 0,92 6

$

60,0 00
100 ,000
100 ,000
100 ,000
100 ,000
50,0 00
15,0 00

500 ,000
223, 623

70,0 00

sos. 250

100 ,000
100 ,000

99,9 11

100 ,000

49,6 08

90,0 00

100 ,261

60 , 000.

99,0 99
106 ,635

40,0 00

49,9 12
98.8 28

100 ,000
50.0 00
50,0 00

Forw ard

SOiEDULE 2
Paqe 2

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND
OF THE
MAS

Face Valu e
80,0 00

387

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR
NIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

$

NIA

4,00 7,78 4

50.0 00
730 ,000

Lou isvi lle & Nas hvil le
R . R. Equ ipne nt
Tru st, 4", 3/ 15/ 71
Lou isvi lle & Nas hvil le
R. R. Equ ipne nt
Tru st, 4-1/ 8 %, 10/ 15/
Mis sour i Pac ific R . R . 68
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
Ser ies S, 4% . 5/1/ 70
Mis sour i Pac ific R . R.
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
Seri es S, 4-1 / 8%, 5 / 1/ 68
New Yor k, Chic ago & St.
Lou
Equ ipne nt Tru st . 4-3/ 8%, is R. R .
4 / 15/ 69
Nor folk and Wes tern Ry .
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
3-7/ 8%, 1/1/ 72
Nor fol k and Wes tern Ry.
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
4%. 5 / 1/70
seab oard Air Line R. R.
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
2 / 1/ 71
Sin clai r Oil Cor pora tion
Sou ther n Pac ific Com pany , 4-3/ 8%. 12/ 1/ 86
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
Ser ies 00, 2-5/ 8%. 9 / 1/
65
sou ther n Pac ific Com pany
Equ ipne nt Tru st.
Ser ies 23. 4" , 11/ 1/ 68
So uthe rn Pac ific Com pany
Ser ies 19, 3-7 / 8%, 1/ 1/ Equ ipne n t Tru st,
71
Sou th= n Rail way Com pan
y Equ ipne nt Tru st,
Se ries ZZ , 4%, 8 / 15/ 70
Sou ther n Rail way Com pany
Equ ipne nt Tru st ,
Ser ies AAA, 4-3/ 8%, 3/
sout hern Rail way Com pany 16/ 68
Equ ipne nt Tru st,
Ser ies AAA. 4-3/ 8% , 9 / 16/
Tex as and Pac ific Ry. Com 69
pany Equ ipne n t
Tru st, Ser ies V , 4-1/ 8%,
7 / l / 68
Tri Dam Pro j ect. Oak dale
Dis tric t, 3.05 %, 7/ 1/ 04 Irri gat ion
Tri Dam Pro ject , Sou th
San Jacq uin
Irri g atio n Dis tric t, 3.05
U. ·s . Trea sury Bon ds, 2-l/ %, 7 / 1/ 04
2", 9 / 15/7 4

4"·

Forw ard

~

4,00 7 , 784
60,0 00
99,6 65
99 .119
100 ,104
100 ,360
49,3 74
15,0 00
69, 77 0
100. 635
99,5 89
99,3 36
88,9 88
60,0 00
40 . 280
100, l;iSl
50 , 054
50. 10 9
50 , 1 09
713 .660

6,05 4,5 8 7

MASONIC HOMES OF C,',LIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 3

PERMAN CNT EN DOWMENT FUND OF THE
'MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

I N\"ESTME!:>ITS
June 30. 1964

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

BOND~

Book value

~

~l

055 .ooo
165,.000
730 000
17 100
luO 000

6,054.587

85,000

U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%. 2/15/90
u. S. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2% , 11/15/98
U. S. Tr~asury !3onds, 4~~ 2/15/69
'lirg inian Ry. Company , 6%, 8/1/0a
Western Maryland Ry. Equiµnent Trust,
Series W. 4-1 / 4% 11/15/69
Wheeling Steel Co~poration, 3-3/4%,
11/15/75

1.034.953
165,75)
730.300
19. ll3
100,260
78 950

Total l.Jonds

!'REF EP.RED

STOCK
13ook \'alue

1. 100
JOO
oOO
500

Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/8%
;)wens-Illinois Glass Company, 4%
Permanente Cement Company, 5%
Reynolds Metals Co., 4-1/2%
Total preferred stock

SOfEDULE 2
Page 4

COMMONi STOCK

!Continued)

Forward

389

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI,\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

388

106,430
34,652
41,956
57 953
240,991

l, 306

500
J,000
650
1,300
1,594
1,000
1,900
933
1,800
2.040
2,400
4,000
2,000
2,878
1,300
l, 264
2,187
880
2. 973
993
2.200
'420
l , 700
180
3, 780
900
500
2,000
600
2,583
l,700
l, 514
1,632
1,530
1.900
700
467

Allied Chemical Corporation
Aluminum Company of America
American Can Company
American Cyanamid Company
Associates Investment Company
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Bank of California,N. A.
Bendix Corporation
Bethlehem Steel Corp.
C.I.T. Financial Corp.
Central Illinois Light Co.
Cha!t'.pion Papers, Inc.
Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co.
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Commercial Credit Co.
Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc.
Crocker-Citizens National Bank
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
Crum and Forster
Dow Chemical Company
Duquesne Light Company
Eastman Kodak Co.
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Equttable Savings and Loan Association
Fireman's Fund Insurance Company
First National Bank of Hawaii
General Electric Company
General Mills Incorporated
General Motors Corporation
General Public Utilities Corp.
B. F. Goodrich Company
·
Goodyear Tire a nd Rubber Co.
Gul~ Oil Corporation
Hartford Fire Insurance Co.
Hercules Powder Company
Honeywell Incorporated
Hy-Dnaf t Incorporated
Forward

$

68,038
38,351
135. 811
18,014
87,107
80,951
68. 308
119,404
39,702
76,762
90,428
80,384
89' 204
66, 7 21
67, 5 65
56,305
84,614
27,528
46,134
104,089
64,583
45,690
42,919
46' 704
840
107,936
54,906
40,948
69,950
27.403
42,798
86' 607
69,641
60' 109
97,682
78,479
103. 727
1.401
2,488,543

PROCE EDING S OP THE

390

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GRA!l:D LODGE OF C:l\l.IF ORN!A
SCl!EDU LE 2

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Page S

PERMAllENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1964

INVESTMENTS
June 30 , 1%4

COMHON STQCK (Conti nued)

800
l,500
1.00 0
292
3,27 4
l,100
,1 , 200
1,700
1.300
1,000
1, 317
l.500
1,400
500
1,400
1.877
l.100
800
3, 700
1,600
2,400
2 .200
2,100
833
700
l,000
1, 900
l,095
7 06
500
1,400
1,307
1 .000
4

2, 275
1,500
877

I ngerso ll-Ran d Co.
I nland Steel co .
Insura nce Compa ny of North Americ a
ration
Intern ationa l Busine ss Machi nes Corpo
I nters tate Powe r Co.
.
Kai ser Alumin um and Ch emica l Corp
Kennec o tt Coppe r Corp.
Ligge tt & Myer s Tobacc o Co .
Lone star Gas Compa ny
P. Lorill ard Compa ny
Marath on Oi l Co.
Minne sota Mining & Manu factur in g Co.
Nation a l Lea d Co.
Nation al Steel Corp .
Niaga ra Mohawk Power Corpo ratio n
North ern Sta tes Power o f Minne sota
Oh io Edison Compa ny
y
Owens - Ill ~no is Gla ss Compan
Parke, Davis & Co.
J . C. Penney Co.
Pen nsylva nia Power a nd Light Compan y
Phi ladelp h ia Elect ric Compan y
Phill i ps Petrol eum Compa ny
Pittsb urgh Plate Glass Co.
Pr octer a nd Gambl e Compa ny
R. J. Reyno lds Tobacc o Compa ny
Scheri ng Corp.
Seatt le First Na tiona l Bank
Sec uri ty First Nation al Bank
She rwin-W ill iams Co.
Smith Kline and French Labs
Socony Mobil Oil Compan y, I nc.
Southe r n Natu r a l Gas Compa ny
Sou thern Real ty Compa ny
St andard Oil Compan y (Califo rnia)
Standa rd Oi l Compa ny (India na)
S t andard Oi l Compa ny (New Jersey )
Fo rward

SCl!EDU LE 2

Page 6

COHMON STQCK (Conti nued)
Boolt Value

Fo rward

391

Book Value

$ 2,488, 543
68,750
69,999
53,205
33,788
88 , 579
40,611
102,33 1
143, 7 60
29, 6 78
45,284
53,270
95 ' 652
1 27, 6 23
23, 554
68.923
22,998
50,859
74,020
1 27 '080
77. 602
85,644
67,816
109 ,676
57,930
57. 775
40, 315
97. 727
72 ,094
28,291
6 5 . 060
90,612
63.451
47.225
11
98.636
69,186
40, 102
4' 9 77 '660

$ 4 ,977. 660

Forwa rd
3,286
1 , 458
300
3 , 036
1,982
l , 932
900
l, 200
9 00
1,500
4,000
875
2,340
4,500

Tenne ssee Gas Transm issi o n Compan y
Texaco , Inc .
·
Texas Utilit ies Compan y
Title Insura nce & Trust Cort!Pbn y
Transa meric a Corpo ration
Unio n Banlt , Los Angele s
Union Car bide Corp . .
Union Elect ric Compan y
Un ited States Gyp sum Compan y
Uni t ed States Steel Corpor~tion
Warner -Lamb ert Pharm aceuti cal•
We l ls Fargo Bank
Wes tern Banco rporat io n
F . w. woolv orth Co .
Fiv e lots o f stoc k of undert e.t'min ed value
l
receiv ed as gifts, carrie d at a n omina
value

6.021. 859

Total corrunon stock

Total invest me nts

75,106
59,689
16,97 2
37. 500
51,783
120,37 9
115 , 788
34,179
94,495
102,01 3
109,03 6
38,808
86,212
102 , 238

Exhib it G

$14,49 6.766

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3
Pag e l

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A

DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

DETAIL OF RESERVES ~' OR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the yea rs e nded June 30, 1964 and 1963

This reserve is credi t ed wi t h amoun ts to be used
benefit o f the. Covina Home.
for the

This re serve is credited with ~n~unt s t o he u sed for the
g eneral pU rposes of the Deca t o ~nd Covina Homes .

Bequests allocated t o Reserve
by Trustees
Net inc ome from real es t ate
r eceived f rom beques t s
a lloc ated to Reserve by
Trustee s
Contributions

Less, charges t o Reserve:
Additions t o San F r a ncisco offic e
Ad dit ions t o Decato Home
Additions t o Covina Home
Replacements t o Deca to Horne
Replaceme nts t o Covina Home
Trans fer t o (from) Major Projects
Re serve (Note 7)

Decrease in Reserve
Balanc e , end of y ear ,
Exhibi t E

SCHEDULE 3
Page 2

COVINA J!ESERVE

RESERVE FOR ADDITI ONS 8ND REPLACE.!=jENTS

Bal a n ce, beginning of year

393

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

392

l

1 9 2 4

.L:LLJ.

$491. 586

$7(!8 . 9 14

26,303

144,759

1, 350

507

450

!i5

28.103

1 45 ,.llQ

125
250,000

6,097
522
10 .851
5 ,188

(3. §35)

400 , 000

242,490

!J22,~~Hl

218 , 307

277, 3 28

$ ~2.J I l::l::l

$ ill.~

Balance, beginn ing of year
Bequests allocated to Reserve
by Tru s t ees
Net income from real estate
received by bequests,
allocated t o Reserv e by
Trustees
Contribution s
Less , charg es to Reserve:
Addition s to Covina Home
Replacement s to Covina Home
Leas eho ld improvements to
Big Bea r Camp
Expendi tures fo r special
benefit of residents
Amount t ransferred t o
Entertainment Reserve
Tr ansfers author ized by
the Board o f Trustees
to r e imburse the General
Fund for the following
Covin~ operating expenses :
Hospita l and me dica l expe nse
Farm a nd grounds expen se

~ n c r eas e

i n Reserve

Balance, e nd o f year,
Exhibit E

The accompanying notes are an integral
part o f t h e f inancia l statements.

2 !i 4

$1. 15 5. 590

l

$

2 6 ~
895,595

13 2 ,678

320,698

8 , 067

8,466

1,ooa

~,~4Q

141,773

332,604

5,957
14,2 16

5,022
11, 626

30.808
8 ,100

8,366
3,078

19,416
35,100

113 ' 597

16,535
27.9f!2
72 , 609

28 ,176

259 ,995

$1.183,766

~l .15 5,59 Q

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the fin a ncial s tatements.

394

GRA ND LOD GE OP C ALI

PRO CEE DIN GS OF TH E

SCHEDULE 3
Pag e 3

NIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR
FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES 3
DETAIL OF RESERVESJun
e 30, 196 4 and 196
ed
end
For the yea r•

395

FOR NIA

NIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR
SPECIAL PURPOSES
DETAIL OF RESERVES FOR
e 30, 196 4 and 196 3
For the yea rs end ed Jun

SCHEDULE 3
Pag e 4

UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE
DECOTO RESERVE
d for the
d wit h amo unts to be uee
Thi a res erv e is cre dite
ne.
Hor
ben efit of the Dec oto
l 9 6 3
l 9 6 4
yea r
Bal anc e . beg inn ing of
to
ed
cat
allo
t•
ues
Beq
Res erv e by Tru ate es
eat ate
Net inco me from rea l t•,
rec eiv ed by beq uea by
allo cat ed to Re• erv e
Tru atee e
Tru st Fun d
c. N. Fli ntExh
ibit L
incc nie,
Fio ren ce G.
and
M.
rge
Geo
Per ine End owm ent Fun d
inco me , ~ibit J
me ,
Rea ide nts ' Acc oun t• inco
Exh ibit N
Con trib utio n•
1
Lee e , cha rge s to Ree erveHome (Sc hed ule 5)
Add itio ns to Dec oto
Home
Rep lace men ts to Dec oto
cia l
Exp end itur e• for spe
ben efit of ree ide nta
Gen era l
Amount tra naf erre d toent tor
Fun d ae reim bur eern
oto
Gra nd Lod ge trip e to Dec
ion •
dur ing ann ual com mun icat
Amount tra n•f err ed to e
Ent erta inm ent Rea erv
Res erv e
Inc rea ae (de cre aae ) in
Bal anc e, end of yea r
Exh ibit E

$ 647 .12 0

n42 . 265

185 ,223

416 , 263

3 , 888

2,48 7

12,5 17

13' 14 3

635

650

10, 181

3, 552

IH:i
213 .,86

437 561

439 ,741
1,1 59

22' 073
5,1 87

ll, 185

1,1 58

3 '705

6,2 10

~~~.Z~Q

J .!22fl
JZ 1Z!2A

C:i4;LS04)

J99 . f1 55

$ i'2' 1 ~66

$~• 2 I ;iag

e• are a n int egr
The acc omp any ing not
•tat em ent •.
par t of the fin anc ial

al

i .HA
I

res ide nts
unts ass ign ed bypen
sion s
cre dite d wit h amo
Thi s res erv e is iss
pro cee ds from
des
nclu
i
and
ion
u~ed
adm
of the Deco to Home on s, and sal e of rea l est ate . The res erv e is
icie
nec oto Home
the
life ins ura nce pol
of
nts
ide
res
the
for the ben efit of
l 9 6 3
l 9 6 4
yea r
Bal anc e, beg inn ing of
res ide nts of
by
Ass e ts ass ign ed
i~sion,
the Dec o to Hom e on adm
sal e
inc lud i ng pro cee ds fromom life
fr
of rea l est ate , and
s
insur~nce pol icie
ide nts
Pen sion s ass ign ed bye res
of the Dec oto Hom
res ide nts
Acc oun ts of dec eas ed ate
ass ign ed
Inco me from rea l est
on
·by res ide nts on adm issi
Res erv e
Tra nsf er from Fun era l
(No te 7)
e:
Les s, cha rge s to Res erv Fun d
Tra nsf er to Gen era l
ns
of the amo unt of pen sio
of the
a s sig ned by res ide nts
Dec oto Home
ide nts
Mo nthl y gta nts to res
7)
Fune r a l expens e (No te nc e
Rea l est ate and ins ura
expens e
e
Add itio ns to Dec oto Hom
Inc rea se in Res erv e
Bal anc e, end o f yea r,
Exh ibit E

$1, 003 ,36 5

$

866 ,07 8

166 ,61 0

168 ,637

263 ,53 6
14, 612

234 ,034
11, 874

390

l.08 4

93, 000
536 ,14 6

l,00 0
416 ,!i2 2

263 ,5.) 6
53, 452
1.5 35

234 ,034
53, 940
6,5 11

6,0 62
il2, 392
536 ,22 7
1, 151

4 ,83 7
229 ,322 ,
117 ' 307

$l.Q 04 53 fii

$1. QQJ I 365

are an int egr al
The acc omp any ing not es
a ta tern en ts .
ial
anc
fin
the
of
t
par

I

397

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

396

PROCE EDING S OP THE

SCHEDULE 3
Page 5

MASONIC HOM.ES OF Cl\LIFORNIA
DETAIL OF RESERVEE FOR SPECIAL pURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

SCliEDULE 4

MASONIC HOKES OF CALIFORNIA
DETAILS OF EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963
(Note 7)
l 9 6 ~

Increa se
. {Decre ase I

39L 361
408,664
31, 132

$;..l 7 ,386
JB,987
l.916

lil 0 ,487
122 .J.l 2

18,325
!:! I 6J2)

l.1HZ,O:!~

62·, 162
202,Z: !l
J.,02§, Q70"

141,40 3
19,416
34. 780

114, 714
16, 5 36
27 ,964

26,689
2,881
6.816

46,116
67,543
14 ,2 0S

47,806
73,554

(l.690 )
(6 ,011)
B,2Q:!

2110, :!7J
l7 , 62§

4~.!l2Q

l§,6§Q
200

200

24,000
8,104
13,449

24,000
8,600
13,693

(496)
(244)

2, 718
1,357
4,250
1,028
3,081
6,300
1,200
1,789

2,969
l. 735
4,000
2,533
3 . 551
4,500
900
1,678

(251)
(378)
250
(1.505 )
(470)
1,800
300
111

15,758
3,705
4,465
2,512
9J,921

17,839
2 ,682
4,57 6
l,220
94,74§

(2. 081)
1. 023

$1.6Q l.096

$1,499 .0BS

$112 911

l 9 6 4

£NTERTAINHENT RESERVES (Note 7)
s and amoun ts
These reserv es are credit ed ~ith contri bution for the
to be used
serves
Re
Covina
and
Decoto
from
erred
transf
.
entert ainme nt of the reside nt s of the Homes
COVINA ENTERTAINMEN'I' RESERVE

Balanc e, beginn ing of year
Contri butio ns
Amount transf erred from
Covina Reserv e

l 9 6 4

l. 9 6 3

$2.500
5,537

$ 2.500
2.683
~

8,037

8,261

Less, entert ainme nt expens e

2...fil.2

-2....1.il.

Balan ce, end of year, Exhib it E

$l....llll

$~

DECOTQ £NTERTA!NHEN'f RESERVE
2 ~ 4

l 9 6 J

$2.500
4, 276

$ 2,500
7,588

l

Balanc e , beqinn ing of year
Contr ibutio ns
Amount transf erred from
Deco to Reserv e
Les•, entert ainme nt expcna e
Balanc e , end of year, Exhib it E

J.&1.§ .

6,776

13,166

l..242

.lQ...il 2

$L..i,l l

$~

Decoto Home opera ting expen se:
Resid ents' mainte nance
Hospi tal and medic al
Farm and ground s
Gener al, plant , buildi ngs,
and transp ortati on
Admin istrati ve
Covina Home opera ting expen se:
Resid ents' mainte nance
Hospi tal and medic al
Farm and ground s
Gener al, plant, buildi ngs,
and transp ortati on
Admin istrati ve
Camp <(pera ting expens e

Relief outsid e of Masoni c Homes
Admin istra tive and gener al expe.n se:
Insura nce
Grand Lodge - secre taria l and
. other servic es..
Office salar ies
Field inves tigati ons
Pensio ns for retire d
employ ees
Taxes on payro ll
Auditi ng s ervic~s
Truste es' expens es
Office suppli es and printi ng
Invest ment counse l fee
Secur ities safeKe eping
Teleph one
Reimb urseme nt of Endowmen t
Fund expens es (inclu ding
reimbu rseme nts t o Grand
Lodge of $15,11 9 in 1963-6 4
and $17 , 071 in 1962-6 3)
Grand Lodge trip to Dpcoto
Pensio n plan expens e
)1isc ellane ous
Total, Exhib it a

Th• accoro panyin g notes are an integr al
part of th• financ ial statem ente.

$

4 08. 747
447,65 1
33,048

Ji~. ~!1J

$

The accanp anying no tes are an integr al
part o f the financ ial statem en t &.

ZQ,91!~

(1,036 )

(111 )

l. 227

(825)

398

GRAND LODGE OF CJ\LIFORNIJ\

PflOC:EEDlNGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 5

MASONIC HOMES OF C/\LirORNIA

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1964

DETAIL OF PROPERTY ADDITIONS
For the year ended June 30, 1964
Note l.
Additions to properties of Decato Home:
Charged to Reserve for Additions
and Replacements:
construction of Charles Altcrt Adams Hall
Charged to Decoto Reserve:
construction of Charle s /\lhert Adams Ha l l
New service building:
$13, 065
Land
14,3 14
Building
__211.
Equiµnent
Bus
Hospital beds
Ice maker
Oth er furniture and equir,ment

$250.000
400,000

Note 2.

Additions to propertie s of Covina Home:
Charged to Covina Reserve :
Big Bear Camp leas ehold imp7ovements
Dormitory furniture a nd equiµnent
Other equiµnent

6.on
2. 043

1.039
---1J48

30,808
5,632
325

Additions to San Franci sco office equipmen t:
Charged to Reserve for Additions and
Replacements:
File cabinet
Total additions, Exhibit D

Inves tments:

Inves tments in securities purchased are stated at cost.
Secu rities received b y gift or bequest or by assignment by re•ident•
of the Home at Decoto are stated at estimated market value at the
time the securities are received or at the nominal value of $1 if the
market value is unknown. In a few instances, t he carrying value of
unlisted stocks acquired by g ift or bequest has been stated at the
per share value of the underlying asset• of the company which i•
believed to be less than t he market value.
·

27, 891

212,392

Basis of Accounting:

The financial statements are stated on a modified cash
basis of accounting. Transactions generally are recorded at the
time of the receipt or payment of cash. c urrent operating expen•e
bill• unpaid were of nominal amount.

~3'), 741

Charged to Unappropr iated Re serve:
construction of Charle s Albert Adams Hall

399

~902.133

Note 3.

Notes Receivable:

Notes receivable arise from the sale of real estate asEigned
to Masonic Homes of California by residents of the Home at Decoto and
from real es tate received as gifts or bequests by the Homes or the
Permanent ~ndowmen t Fund.
36.765

125
$939 .02.}

Note 4.

other Assets:

other assets cons ist of life insurance policies and real
estate assigned t o Masonic Homes of California by residents of the
Home at Decoto or received as gifts or bequests by the Permanent
Endowment Fund. The life insurance policies and parcels of real
estate are each recorded at the nominal value of $1 for accountability.
Payment by Masonic Homes of l oans previously obtained by the assignors
on life insurance policies or on real estate are added to the nominal
nl=.
·
·
Note S.

Land, Buildings, and Equipment:

Land, buildings, and equipment a re recorded at the cost
when origina lly purchased and no depreciati on of buildings and
equipment has been provided fo r in the accounts. Replacements of
original items of equipment are charged to one of the Reserves for
Specia l Purposes established by the Board of Trustees.
The accompanying notes ere ~n integral
part of the f inanci~l stlltements .

100

P .ROCEEOINGS OF THE

Note 5.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Land, Buildings, and Equipment (Continued):

101

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

.
. The Trustees of Masonic Homea have signed contracts
committin? the Homes to expenditures of approximately $1,200,000 for
construction.of ~he Charles Albert Adams Hall at the Decoto Home. Co
of construction in progress to June 30, 1964 on this project amounted st
to $921,203.

LYBRA:S-D, Ross BRos. c, >fo~'l'Gm!ERY
CE:RTIFIED
ONE:

Puet...1C Accou NTAN'TS
BUSH

STRE:ET

S"N FFIANCISCO .d.
YU ICON 1-!1.3;13

Note 6.
.

Reserves for Special Purposes:
The Tru.stees of Masonic Homes have established various

UJloflT ICO STA'T'ltS

spec~al re~erves (see Schedule 3, pages 1 through 5) to which are

credited.gift~, bequests, and other amounts which generally are used
at the.direction of the Trustees for purposes other than direct
c;iperating.expenses. The assets represented by these reserves are
included in the assets of the General Fund.

To the Trustees of
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
1111 California Street,

Note 7,

Accounting Changes:

During the year ended June 30, 1964 certain accounting
changes were made. Where appropriate for comparative purposes these
change~ were also made for the preceding year. These changes are
summarized as follows:

San Francisco, California 94108.
~ie

have examined the statement of assets, liabilities, and

fund balance of CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE, a California
nonprofit corporation, as of June 30, 1964 and the related statement

l.

Certain administrative and general expenses were
allocated to the Homes.

2.

The Leonard Gross Memorial Fund was transferred to
the Permanent Endowment Fund.

our examination was made in accordance with generillly accepted

Reserves for Special Purposes:

accounting records and such otl1er auditing procedures as we

(a)

of income received and expenses disbursed for the year then ended.
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the

The Entertainment Reserve was divided
into entertainment reserves for each
of the two Homes.

considered necessary in the circumstances.

(b)

The Funeral Reserve was transferred to
the Unappropriated Reserve.

June 30, 1963.

(c)

The Major Projects Reserve was transferred
to the Reserve for Additions and
Replacements.

the assets, liabilities, ~nd fund balance of California Masonic

We previously examined

and reported upon the financial statements for the year ended

In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly
Memorial Temple, at June 30, 1964 and 1963, arising primarily from
cash transactions, and the income received and expenses disbursed
by it for the years then ended, on a consistent basis.
We attach the following:
Exhibit A

Statement of assets, liabilities,
and fund balance

Exhibit B

Statement of income received and
expenses disbursed

Schedule l -

Summary of contributions received

One Page

Notes to financial statements

"*'---~)a../~~
~~Jo~~t~ts
certified Public

July 30, 1964

402

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

403

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1964 and 1963

EXHIBIT B

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

EXHIBIT I\

STATEMENT OF INCOME RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

ASSETS:
1964
cash
Memorial Temple property (at cost):
Land
Building and building equipment
Furnishings

$

116, 616

To tal assets

$

168,760

734,304
5,210,296
213 7 60

734, 304
5,208,898
210,283

6,158,360

6,153,485

$ 6,2 74, 9 76

s6....322 . 24~

5

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE:
Liabilities:
Notes payabl e to banks (Note 2)
i Contract payable to architect
, Deposits f or rental of space by public
'C ontributi o ns due pension trust
'Accrued payroll taxes and expense
Reserve for renewals and replacements
(Note 3)
Total liabilities
Fund balance:
Contributions:
Received prior to beginning of year
Received during year, Schedule l
Total contributions to end
of year
Net expense of Temple building:
Net expense to begi nning of year
Ne t expense for year, Exhibit B
Net e x pense to end of year
Fund balance

$

779,790
8,900
734
158

$1, 133, 790
23,752
11, 725
l, l 79
504

6, 528
796, 110

4,676
l , 175,626

5,657,502
350,8 0 2

5,297,685
359, 817

6, 008, 304

s,657,502

510,883
18,555

448,916
61,967

529,4 38
5,478,866

Increase
(Decrease)

.!.ill

5 10,883
5,146,619

Building income:
Ren t and other charges
to public
Rent of garage
Rent of space to Grand Lodge

Operating expenses:
Building e x pe nse:
Salaries and payroll expense
Ut ilitie s and services
Mainte n a nce
Ex t eri or waterproof painting
In s urance

Real property tax es
General and administrative :
Lega l a n d aud i ting
Stationery a n d p o sta ge
Pers o na l pro perty taxes
Mi see llaneous

$6.274,9 76

The accompanying notes a r e an integral
part of the financial statements.

$6.322.245

$ 49,973
60,069
18,000

$45,731
7. 162

18 0,9 35

128 , 0 42

41,092
30,797
4,888
16,232
l,778
59,100

36. 118
28,796
5,883
2,544
62 I 267

~)

153,887

135,608

18,279

4,496
1,289
2, 178
925

3 ,522
3,097
l,928
680

974
(l,808)
250
~

4,974
2,001
(995)
16,232
( 766)

8,888

9,227

~)

To tal operating expenses

162, 775

144,835

17,940

Operating profit (loss)

18, 160

(16, 793)

34,953

39. 112

47,7 5 2

(8, 640)

Other expense, net:
Interest on· notes payable
Addition to reserve for renewals
and replacements (Note 3)
Less, interest received on bank
deposits

Total liabilities and fund
b~lance

$ 95,704
67,231
18, 000

Net expense for year

1, 852

l, 319

533

40,964

49,071

(8,107)

4 249

3, 897

352

36,715

45, 174

(8,459)

$ 18.555

$ 6 L 96 7

$ fil..ill)

The sccompanyin~ notes are an integral
part of the financial statement•.

404

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

SCHEDULE l

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIA L TEMPLE

SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
Fo r the years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963

NOTES TO FINANC IAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1964

Note 1 .

$240,791

13' 9 32
254, 911

14,013

Note 2.

254, 804

Notes payable to banks are secured by a first deed of
tru s t o n the Temple real property. The notes are payable in
minimum annual instalments aggreg ating $120,000, continuing annually
unti l Oc tober 4, 1965, on which date all sums of principa l and
interest then unpaid s hall be due and payable. During the year
e nded June 30, 1964, total payments of $354,000 were made on these
notes. The no te~ bear interes t at t he rate of 4% per annum ,
payable semiannually April l and October 1 of each year.

Contributions of initiates of fiscal
years ended June 30, 1964 and 1963
'
respe ctive ly, at $9.00 each

Less, refunds and adjustments

43,065

42,41 7

297,976

297,221

612

504

297,364

296,717

53, 4 38

63,100

$~

$3~2.~li

Contributions from individuals ( see note)

~:

The financial statements do not provide for depreciation
of building, equipment, or furnish i ngs.

$240 , 979

Contributions of ini tiates of f i scal
years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962.
respectively, at $9.00 each

Total contributions received
during year

Basis of Accounting:

The financial stateme nts are stated on the cssh ba s is of
a c counting. Transactions generally are recorded a t the time of
the receipt or payment of cash. Curren t operating expense bills
unpaid were of nominal amount.

Grand Lodge, F, & A. M.:
Annual r eturns - 1963 and 1962,
respectively :
Master Masons on June 30, 1963 and 1962
'
respectively, at $1.00 per capita

405

GRANO LODGE O P CALIFORNIA

Pledges for contributions unpaid at June 30 , 1964 and
1963 am?unted to approximately $28,000 and $36,000,
Pledges are not included in the
respectively.
financial statements until collected.

Notes Paya b le to Banks:

The balances of the n ote s at June 30, 1964 amounted to
$779,790, as fol lows :
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
The Bank of California, N.A.
Crocker - citi zens National Bank
Wells Fargo Bank

$129,965
129 , 965
259,930
2 59 9 30
I

$779 , 790
Note 3.

Reserve for Renewals and Replacements:

In 1960, the Trustees authoriz~d the establishment of a
reserve for renewa l s a nd replacement s, and annual additions thereto
of a sum equal to one percent of the annual gross income of the
Temple. The addition for the year ended June 30, 1964 amounted to
This reserve has not been funded.
~l,852.

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

GRAND LODGE OP C ALIPORNIA

106

407

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

UNION CITY, CALIFORNI A
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A
1963-1964
ANNUAL REPORT
July l, 1963 ·June 30, 1964
NAMES OF MEN RESIDENTS -AVERAGE AGE 81.98
•Indicates admission during current year.
t lndica tes couple.
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Ahlborn, George C ...... Oct . 10, '61 P arnassus ..... .. . 388 S a n Francis co......82
A nderson,J .Woodson• A pr. 27, '64 Granada .............. 608 Alhambra ............ 75
Bacon, Herber t W....... Mar. 23, '61 R ussian River .... 181 Windsor ........... ..... 84
B acon, Walter B .............Jan. 15, '63 Mt. Olive ..........506 Los Angeles .......... 79
B a rnes, Wm. H .............July 2, '59 L ive Oak .. .......... 61 Oakla nd ............ .... 81
Bean, Verd James ..... .....Apr. 5, '63 Redwood City ..168 Redwood City......74
Beer, Leslie ....................Dec. 19, '60 Woods tock ....... .491 Al ameda .............. 63
Bienl, Wm. F. t .............. S c pt. 28, '61 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City ....... - ... 96
Bogan, Cleot ................Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning ................ 83
B laess, Ernest M.• ........S e pt. 20, ' 63 Dimond .............. 603 Oakland ................ 83
Brcrnser, Arthur .......... July 9, '60 E as t Gat e ............290 Los Angeles ........83
Broadwell, Charles S. • Feb . 12, '64 S anta Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... 91
Brown, Frederick A . ....Oct . 17, '57 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............85
Buerman, Wm. J .........July 13, '62 San Diego ... ....... 35 S a n Diego ............ 80
Burt, Byron H . ........... ...Dec. 6, ' 56 Molino .......... ...... 150 Tehama ................ 79
Carls on, Carl Oscart ..Feb . 17, '61 Balder ................ 393 S a n Francisco ......74
Carroll, Gustav M . ...... May 28, '63 Starr King ........344 San Francisco ...... 83
Case, Byron W. ....... .....Mar. 11, '60 Buckeye ............195 Winters ................ 74
Casey, Newman H . ...... Mar. 26, '55 Santa Barbar a .. 192 Santa Barbar a ...... 87
Chapman, Dorr G .......Aug. 19, '61 Corona ................324 Pasadena .............. 87
Cloy d, John W. • ..........Apr. 2, '64 Three Pillars ....613 Sacr a mento ..........83
Combs, J eromet .......... Sept. 2, '62 Hawthorne ........ 647 Ha wthorne ..........83
Condon, Wilbert S ...... ... J an . 11, '42 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ..............88
Covell, William A. ...... Nov. 12, '60 Consuelo .......... ..325 Escondido ............ 85
Covington, James ........Aug. 30, '57 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........81
Creider, Roy B. • .......... Oct. 25, '63 San Dieguito ....775 Cardiff ..................83
Crozier, Alfred B . ........June 26, '60 Semper Virens .. 552 Eureka .................. 81
Crystal, David T. • ........Mar. 11, '64 Amity-Seal
Rock ................ 370 San Francisco......77
Deardorff, Charles D . .. Dec. 7, '59 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ..............82
Decker, George W.t .... July 3, '62 Mendocino ........ 179 Mendocino ..........80
Diefenbach, Willia.m t Feb. 20, '62 Solano ..._...........229 Vallejo ..................81
Diven, Vernon L .• ........ Dec. 18, '63 Yount ...... ............ 12 Napa ......................77
Dotson, Garner M. • ..... S ept. 10, '63 Sunrise .. ....... ..... 522 Monterey Park....88
Driv er, John H . ............ Nov. 10, '61 Belmont Shore .. 716 Long Beach ..........85
DuBois, Andrew B. t .... Apr. 30. '58 MorninJ;( Star .... 68 Stockton ..............81
Duebel, Charles ............Apr. 5, '58 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco......85
Dunn, John M.t ........... .Feb. 9, '62 H. S. Orme....... .458 Los Angeles .......... 72
Dye, Melvin ..................Dec. 12, '60 Vis alia ................128 Visalia .................. 64
Dzaroogian, Ma rsob ....May 19, '60 Vallejo ................487 Vallejo ..................67
Eckste in, Joseph G .......Feb. 21 , '62 Argonaut ............ 461 San Francisco......79
Evans, Alfred R. ............June 6, '61 Howard .. ....... ..... 37 Yrek a .................... 79
Finch, Walter E .t .......... May 23, '62 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ..........78
Fisher, Harry F ............. Aug. 28, '61 King Solomon's
Seaport .......... 260 San Francisco ......82
Fisher, William J.• ......Mar. 17, '64 Amity-Seal
Rock ................370 San Francisco ...... 83
Frare, Giacomo ............Apr. 1, '51 Speranza
Italiana ..........219 San Francisco ... -.83
French, John S ............ ...Feb. 4, '61 S. F.-Victory .... 360 San Francisco ......81
Frost, Harold G ....... ..... .Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........74
Fullalove, Edward J. • ..Mar. 6, '64 Park ....................449 San Francisco ...... 80

Age
No.
T own
Lodge
Admitted
Name
75
......
......
Nuys
.450
.......
Van
..
uys
N
'61
9,
Van
Sept.
........
Gammon, R odger
Ga rner, Charles F. • ......June 5, '64 La Habra ............659 La Habra .............. 90
Gerhart, William E .......Feb. 10, '61 Pentalpha ...... .. .202 Los Ange les ........ 90
Gillespie, Earl L ...........Apr. 15, '61 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez .............. 87
Godfrey, Henry S ........ July 25, ' 54 Oak G rove .. .....21 5 Alam eda .............. 93
Gray, Arthur ..................May 12, '60 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ........ .......... 78
Gre en, R obert F ............May 7, '58 Curtis ................. 140 Cloverdale ..........83
Hage man n, Henry F .....F eb. 24, '61 Hermann ............ 127 San Fra ncisco ......80
Haley , Michael C . ........Nov. 4, '61 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne ..........79
Halford, George W.t ....Apr. 2, '63 Vis alia ................128 Visa lia ..................81
Hammond, Cuyler J .• ..Jan. 27, '64 Golden S t ate .... 358 Los Angeles ........77
Hascall, Andrew t ... ..... Oct. 3, '60 Charity .............. 362 Campbell .............. 83
Hastings , Vernon .......... May 27, '63 La Fayette ........ 126 Sebas topol .......... 91
Hendricks, George G ...Sept. 26, '59 All Sta t es ..........593 Long B each .......... 82
Hermans, Howard S .....Oct. 31, '60 Corona ................ 324 Pasa dena .............. 74
Hopper, William II... .... Dec. 11, '57 Hollenbeck ...... ..319 Los Angeles ........90
Hopping, Char les ..........June 27, '62 Whittier ..............323 Whittier ................ 87
Howard, Otto ................. Ju ly 6, '62 California .......... 1 Sa n F rancisco ...... 79
Hyde, Ross E t ............ ..... Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles ........78
Jack, Charles P ... ......... ...Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ......... ... 354 San Fran cisco ...... 85
Jackson, Elw ell R. L ....June 7, '62 Henry Knox ...... 662 Los Angeles ........77
Jeffers, Leonard M ......... Dec. 9, '60 Curtis ............... ... 140 Clov erdale ............78
Je nsen, J am es ........... .. ...July 27, '60 Balder ................ 393 San Fra ncisco ...... 92
Johnson , Gustave E .... ..Aug. 28, '56 Balde r ...... ........393 S an F rancisco ..... .86
Kempf, Will iam A .........Dec. 1, '61 Doric ............ ...... 21 6 San Fra ncisco ... ... 66
Klossner, J oh n W ......... Nov. 8, '62 Cahuenga .. .... 513 Hollywood ..........90
Lepetich , Steve M. • ......July 22, '63 Ma ricopa ............434 Maricopa ..............83
Lincoln, Milton R. ....... ..Dec. 28, '62 Golden Ga te .... 30 San Fra ncisco ..... .7 6
Long, John D .• ......... ...Ju ly 4, '63 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte ................. .80
Luchs, J ohn C . ............. July 15. '61 Silver Gate .. ......296 San Diego ............9 1
Luethge, J ohn C ......... ...Sept. 16, '60 P rovident .......... 609 Sacr amento ..........79
McCall, William ........... .Sep t. 4, '56 O roville ..............103 Orovi lle ................ 98
McConnell, R iley .. ........ May 14, '63 Highland Park ..382 Los Angeles ........72
McGraw, John !·!... ........ June 27, '58 S outh Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ....... 84
Mann, William J ... .......Aug. 4, '60 East B elt ... .........391 Tu olu mne ........... 88
Martin, Ernes t .............. J an. 11, '62 Li ve Oa k ............ 61 Oakla nd .. ..............84
Martins en, T homas A ...Nov. 19, '57 T ehacha pi ... ... .... 313 Teha chapi ............74
Mason, Fred R. ...... .......... Feb. 22, '62 West Gate ... .......335 L os An geles ..... .. 80
Meinbress. Ha rry .........Au g. 29, '60 Brooklyn ..... ......225 Oakla nd .......... ..... 78
Miles, Gerald B.• ..........May 27, '64 Exeter ................ 424 Exeter ................. 8 1
Milkop, Ma rtin . . ........ June 24, ' 61 Pres idio ..............354 Sa n F'rancisco .... 87
Miller, Fra nk ................Feb. 8, '62 Santa Ros a ........ 57 Santa Ros a ..........82
... S ept. 29, '62 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ... ............. 80
Moler, C la ren1:e .
Moore, Herbert W .... . ...July 30, '62 L ive Oak ....... .... 61 Oakland ................87
Morris, Ha r r y E .• ........... Oct. 31, ' 63 K ing Solomon's
Seaport .. .. .... .260 San F ra ncisco ...... 78
Moulthrop, Car lton C ... Apr. 11, '59 Oa k Grove ........ 215 A la m eda ..... .........7 9
Murray, J am e!:> B:' ...Apr. 17, '53 Westwood . .... .. . 501 W estwood ............ 84
Neal. Fra n k M.. ......... Oct. 28. '60 P a lo Alto ............ 346 Palo Al to ..............82
Niebling, W ill ia m F . ...Au g. 27. ' 5R Ca pita l Cit y ... . 499 Sacramen to . . ..8:3
Oakley, Char les W ........Dec 16, '49 Nicolaus ........... .129 Wh c;; t la11ct ........87
Off, John W... . ............Nov. 5, '62 So. Califomia ....278 Los An ge le ~ . ......60
Ollson, L ester E............. Aug . ::!4, '59 Cha rter R ock ....410 Berkeley ..............77
Pattison, William C ....... May 16, '63 La Cumbre ........642 Sa nta Ba rbara ....80
Payne, John S .......... ......Aug . 3, '61 Union ...... ............ 58 Sacra m en to ........ 89
Peale, Char les W ...........Aug. 18, '51 Montebe llo ....... .451 Monte bello ..........81
Rader, Edwa rd .......... ...Aug. 13, '62 Balder ............... 393 San Francisco .... 80
Randall, Finelle K. ........ May 17, '60 Sojourner .......... 607 Monrovia ..............91
~snick , John J .............Sept. 30, '62 P alos Ver des .... 389 Long Beach ..........79
Richardson, William T .July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ................71

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Ridley, Alvin ..................Feb. 1, '62 East Bay .. .........489 Berk eley
. ..... 94
... 12 Napa -- --···--······--··-- 80
Roberts, Owen I. t.. .......Dec. 16, '60 Yount .........
Robertson, Willia m L. • Sept. 21 , '63 Ocean Park ........ 369 Ocean Park ..........84
Roche, G eorge E....... .Feb. 15, '61 Corinthian ...... .... 9 Mar ysville ............ 91
Roche, Geor ge W ............Jan. 18, '57 Sout h Pasaden a 3 67 So. Pasadena ...... 89
Rosenzweig, Sam ..... ..Jan. 6, '60 Argonaut ............ 461 San Francisco ...... 68
Rossi, Valentino ............ May 13, '59 Roos evelt ..........500 San Francisco ...... 95
Rumfelt, Clarence P .....Jan. 19, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ......... . .. 88
Schermerhor n, Le roy * Oct. 27, '63 Pea rl Har bor ..... 598 Hawaii .................. 75
Schooley, Aubur n L. t .. Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ........... .489 Berkeley ............ .90
Schroder, John G ........... Mar. 24, '61 Mission .............. 169 Sa n Francisco ...... 87
Scott, John K. .................. Ma y 9, '63 Culver City ....... .467 Culver City ......... 82
Short, Benjamin A. ........Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside .. .. ...... 577 Los Angeles ........ 80
Soute r, John H .......... ..... Aug. 11, '61 Oakland .............. 188 Oak land ................ 84
Specht, Frank M ............ May 9, '60 Crocker ..... .....454 Colma --··-------· .......77
Steigelman, Warren H. t
Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ... ......523 Bellflower ............ 81
Stewart, Charles ............ Apr. 5. '61 Sa n Juan ............ 732 Fair Oaks ..............83
Stewart, James O ...........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras .......... 78 San Andrea s ........ 93
..... 82
Stine, William A. ............Jan. 24, '63 Libertas .............. 466 Ba kersfield
Stites, Joseph J. *.......... Sept. 17, '63 Live O ak ........... 61 Oakland ................ 85
Strain, William R. ........ June 11, '60 Th e Gardens ...... 621 Los Angeles . ......78
Street, Alvin C ...............Apr. 14, '55 Pasade na ...... ..... 272 Pasadena .............. 91
Sullivan, James S.* ........ O ct. 2, '63 Fremont ..... ...... .497 Oakland ....... .........76
Sutherland, Geore;e W.July 13, '53 Clovis ................. .417 Clovis ....................84
Sutherland, William M .Mar. 10, '58 Redondo ............ 328 Redondo Beach .. 87
Swanson. George N .......Mar. 15, '62 Needles ..............326 Needles ___ ___ ......... 83
Taforo, Charles R. L ......Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak --··-··----- 61 Oakland ............ .... 77
Thompson, E lm er F ....... Feb 4, '56 Meridia n ............ 667 Glendale __ ...... ... 78
Townson, James T.t ...... Feb. 14, '62 Stanis laus .......... 206 M odesto ................ 89
V est, Joseph T.* .............. July 29, '63 Thousand Oaks .. 478 Berkeley __ __ _........ 79
Wakeman, George F ....May 12, '62 Hawthorne ....... 647 Hawthorne ....... ... 84
Waldeyer, Wilhelm ...... Oct. 10, '61 Pacific ...... .......... 136 San Francisco ...... 83
Wallis , Abr aha m G ....... Nov. 2, '47 Midwa y ..............426 T aft ........................ 80
Warden, Robert A. ........June 1, '56 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ... . _ .... 85
......85
Waterma n , Alfred S .... .Feb. 28, '55 Rus sian River .. 181 W indsor _
Weinber g, Harry t ........ Apr. 9, '62 Doric -··-··------··----·-216 San Fran cisco ..... 78
White , Harry C ...............Dec. 4, '54 San Diego ....... .561 S an Diego ............ 83
Whittard, E rnest A. . ....Apr. 25, '61 Bea r Mountain .. 76 Angels Camp ... 92
..... 81
W ilder, Willia m R. .. ........D e c. 5, '58 F riends hip ......... 210 San J ose
Wilson , Sidney G. .. ... .J a n . 6, '62 Oak Grove ........ 2 15 Alamed a ..............77
Wilson, Thomas R. ........A u g. 24, '5 9 S equoia ..... ......... 349 Oak lan rl. __ __ __ _ _ ... 80
Y or k, W ard A. • . _.... ...Feb. 28, '63 Garden a .............. 372 Gardena ________ _ .. .93

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

409

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1963- 1964
July 1. 1963 - June 30. 1964
DEATHS-MEN-AVERAGE AGE 86.00 years
Town
A ge
Lodge
No.
~~
D~
Applegarth, Edward M.Mar. 10, '64 Acorn ................ 494 Oakland ................ 88
Benne tt, Les ter E .............Jan 21, '64 Golden State .... 358 Los Angeles ........ 82
Cicero, Carmelo..............Nov. 27, '63 Yount ................ 12 Napa .................... 83
Dixon, James G ..............F eb. 20, '64 Live Oak .......... 61 Oakland ................ 82
Dona ldson, Charles G ...Dec. 21, '63 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael .......... 87
D arby, Bruce M ... _____ _. _Jan. 31, '64 Signal ·----- ... ... 543 Long Beach ....... ...86
Gnad, S ebast ian S ......... May 22, '64 Lamanda Park ..627 Pasadena ............. 80
Forgie, Robert ..... ...........D ec. 2, '63 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............85
Hickey, Frank J ............. Jan. 10, '64 So. San Fran.....212 So. San Fran ........ 83
Hockett, Marion L. _..... June 1, '64 Redondo ...... .... 328 Redondo Beach .. 77
Jones, Alfred .................. Nov. 25, '63 Crocker ........... ...454 Daly City ____________ 75
Keen, Cassius H ........... ..Mar 19, '64 University .. . . 394 Torrance .............. 94
London, Morris .............. Oct. 16, '63 Foothill ..... ......... 564 Oa kland ................ 95
May, Fred ........................ May 25, '64 Friendship ·--- ... 210 S an Jose ............ 100
Porter, W illiam G .........Jan. 13, '64 Utopia ............ .... 537 Los Angeles ___ ... .89
Powell, William H .........July 18, '63 W est Gate ....... .. .335 Los Angeles ........ E8
Reinhold, Gabriel .......... May 8, '64 Bay City ............ 526 San Francisco ..... 84
Roberts on, George IL ...Oct. 8, '63 Maricopa ......... .434 Maricopa ....... .......92
Sinclair, Sidney C .........Feb. 14, '64 Hammonton ..... .433 Sut ter ................ .. 73
Townsend, Albert E ....... J an. 10, '64 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........ 92

WITHDRAWN
Moody, Bertrand F ......... Oct. 17, '63 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 87
Giannini, Egisto ............Apr. 20, '64 Sp. Italiana ......291 San Francisco ...... 74

410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT 1963-1964
July 1, 1963 - June 30, 1964
NAMES OF WOMEN RESIDENTS-AVERAGE AGE 82.20
*Indicates admission during current year.
tlndicates couple.
No.
lodge
Admitted
Age
Name
Town
Abbott, Sarah E ............. Mar. 10, '60 Mizpah ..............378 Los Angeles ........78
Allen, Maude .................. Aug. 22, '58 Lexington .......... 104 El Monte ..............82
Ames, Myra D ................. May 8, '54 Delano ................ 309 Delano ..................77
Anderson, Hattie M ..... May 30, '57 Jewel .................. 374 San Francisco ......90
Anderson, Mary A. ........Sept. 9, '60 San Mateo ........ 226 San Mateo ............85
Andrews, Lela M ......... .Sept. 2, '58 Friendship ........ 210 San J ose ..............88
Angwin, Hilda ..............Nov. 14, '62 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............77
Appel, Henrietta H ...... .Aug. 12, '60 Vermont
Square .......... 515 Los Angeles ........79
Armstrong, Emma R. .... May 3, '62 Golden Rule .... 479 San Jose .............. 81
Barnett, Marie W .. ....... Mar. 21, '63 Acorn ................494 Oakland ................75
Barstow, Eva M .............Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose ..............82
Bartrip, Ada (Weinberg)t
Feb. 7, '63 Redondo ............ 328 Redondo Beach ..75
Bavouset, Cora ............ Nov. 2, '55 West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles ........81
Belknap, Annie L ...........Oct. 24, '56 Temblor ............ 477 Fellows ................ 88
Bennett, Rose M .............Oct. 9, '61 Goden State ...... 358 Los Angeles ........82
Bergen, Anna M .............Nov. 28, '60 S. F.-Victory ...... 360 San Francisco ......89
Biehl, Elsie M.t.. .......... Sept. 28, '61 Crocker .............. 454 Daly City ............92
Bielar, Grace .................. Apr. 23, '62 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz .......... 77
Biggar, Effie F ................. Apr 13, '62 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ......73
Black, Evalita M ............ July 17, '59 King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo..83
Bloy, Edith ....................Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir .......... 297 Dunsmuir ............92
Blum, L ena .................... May 14, '58 San Diego ........ 35 San Diego ............76
Bogan, Selma E. t ........ Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio.... 668 Banning ................76
Br okaw, Leona C .... ....... Apr. 17, '58 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ..................83
Brown, Jean L ................. Apr 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........84
Browne, Rachel R. ........June 21, '54 Las Palmas ...... 366 Fresno ..................75
Caffrey, Marie .............. Mar. 20, '63 Abell ............. ..... 146 Ukiah ....................85
Campbell, Alice• ............Oct. 25, '63 Lebanon ........... .495 San Francisco ......77
Carey, Marguerite G .....Ju ne 29, '61 Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington ........91
Carlson, Lisat ................ Feb 17, '61 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......70
Carroll, Frances ............ Aug. 1, '60 Alameda ............ 167 Fremont ..............79
Carswell, Adella B ......... Dec. 31, '58 LaFayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ..........92
Carter, Adelia M .............July 1, '58 Santa Cruz ........ 33 Santa Cruz ..........91
Casterline, Mary A ....... Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ............91
Castle, Ollie R. .............. Nov. 26, '61 S. W. Hackett....574 San Diego ............79
Cheney, Hazel E ........... Aug. 15, '51 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento ..........78
Clark, Elizabeth H ....... Mar. 14, '62 Richmond ... ....... 375 San Francisco ......91
Clayberger, Alice J .......Nov. 16, '59 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ..............79
Cleghorn, Lou Belle .... Mar. 15, '61 Caledonia ......... .486 Bakersfield .......... 85
Combs, Lena E.t ..........Sept. 2, '62 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne ..........75
Corbin, Elsa B ............... May 31, '61 Clovis ............... .417 Clovis .................... 80
Cormeny, Rose .............. Aug. 29, '60 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............88
Cortright, Laura .......... Sept. 7, '54 Durant .............. 268 Berkeley ..............87
Coward, Anna ................Oct. 21, '60 McKinley ..........347 Richmond ............ 82
Crawshaw, Della• ........ Apr. 30, '64 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose .............. 74
Crilley, Jessie ................ July 27, '60 Atascadero ....... .493 Atascadero .......... 96
Dale, Gertrude ..............Mar. 31, '60 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................ 83
Davis, Viola Mae ............ July 10, '62 Vermont
Square ............ 515 Los Angeles ........ 81
Diefenbach, Bertha• ....Feb. 20, '62 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................78

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

411

Age
Town
No.
Lod{lt!
Admitted
Name
Dillman, Edythe
..... 14 Sonoma ................64
(DuBois)t .................. Mar. 2, '62 Temple
Donaldson, J . Elaine....Feb. 14, '58 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............ 83
Drysdale, Charlotte ......July 5, '62 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ....80
Dunn, Eleanor R. t.. ...... ..Feb. 9, '62 H. S. Orme...... ....458 L os Angeles ........71
Eastman, Leona J .........Mar. 7, '63 Solano ................ 229 Vallejo ..................75
Edwards, Lina M .. ......... May 23, '50 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco .... 82
Ekas, Margaret E .• ........Feb. 7, '64 Fresno .............. 247 Fres no .................. 91
Elliott, Maud M ...........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills .... 528 Beverly Hills ..... 86
Ely, Eva Estelle............Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye ............ 195 Winters ................ 81
Esser , Margaret J ...........Dec. 19, '62 Mt. Dav idson ......481 San Francisco ....85
Evans, Christina .......... Mar. 16, '61 Marin ................ 191 San Rafael ..........82
Fanning, J ennie H .......Nov. 4, '57 Oakland ............ 158 Oakland ................ 84
Felling, Idabel C ............. Feb. 3, '59 Mt. View ............ 194 Mt. View .............. 83
Finch, Bertha B.t.. ... ..... May 23, '62 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ..........77
Flemming, Thora J ....... Jan. 3, '58 Mendocino ... ..... 179 Mendocino ............82
Foley, Lida E ........ ....... April 18, '55 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ....... .....72
Forgie, Helene ..............Feb. 25, '63 Morning Star .. .. 68 Stockton .............. 80
Foster, Mary 1.................Feb. 15, '63 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................ 82
Fox, Bertha B ................ Mar. 12, '62 Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ....79
Freulich, Helene ..........July 11, '59 Hollywood ........ 355 Hollywood ............76
Garrison, Gladys• ........F eb. 1, '64 Mt. View ............194 Mt. View .............. 68
Gerbert, Frances E ....... May 2, '59 Three Pillars .... 612 Sacramento ..........85
Gilliam, Estelle G ...... ... Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ................ 615 Hemet .................. 80
Gilmore, Emma V. • ...... Feb. 26, '64 Three Pillars .... 613 Sacramento ..........72
Gnad, Margaret• .......... Feb. 8, '64 Lamanda Park .. 627 Pasadena ..............68
Goldstein, Mollie* .... ....June 12, '64 Lincoln ............. .470 San Francisco .... 72
Goodwin, Emma .......... June 13, '58 Vermont
Square ............ 515 Los Angeles ........ 91
Graves, Lottie• ............. .Mar. 25, '64 Hollywood ........ 355 Hollywood ............79
Grindell, Matilda* ........ Jan. 13, '64 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............89
Gundlach, Nancy ........June 8, '62 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........80
Halford, Lucy W. t... ..... Apr. 2, '63 Visalia ................128 Visalia .................. 78
Hansen, Grace Z............. J a n. 11, '60 Riverbank ..........459 Riverbank ............77
Hanthorn, Bessie R. ...... F eb. 19, ' 62 Pt. Firmin .......... 558 San Pedro ............ 87
Hardy, Alice M ............... Dee. 27, '54 Rockridge .......... 468 Oakland ................92
Hare, Violet .................... May 12, '60 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco .... 84
Harper, Laura D .. ......... Nov. 6, '57 Yolo ....... ............. 81 Yolo ...................... 81
Harrison, Alice J.* ........ June 11, '64 Keith .............. ....187 Gilroy ................. .85
Hascall, Mabel M. t ........Oct. 3, '60 Charity ..............362 Campbell ............ 76
Hawkes, Lelia E ......... .... Aug. 11, '61 Las Palmas .. ...... 366 Fresno .................. 80
Hawkins, Evelyn V ....... Apr. 4, '61 Yerba Buena .. ..403 Oakla nd ................80
Hays, Lilian T ................. May 5, '55 Center .. ..............465 Fres no ..................68
Hedburg, Huldah A. ....Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................ 247 Fres no .................. 85
Helmore, Ada F .............Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........88
Hendricks, Mary H .• .... Dec. 28, '63 Tuolumne .......... 8 Sonora ..................81
Hendrickson, Frances .. May 16, '62 Coalinga ............ 387 Coalinga ..............89
Hepburn, Catherine .... Apr. 7, '52 Palisades .......... 637 Santa Monica ......72
Hinze, Henrietta M....... J an. 27, '54 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............79
Hitchcock, Stella ....... ... Sept. 29, '61 Richmond ..........347 Richmond ............85
Hoover, E. Jane ..............Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............ 272 Pasadena ...... ........ 84
Hoskins, Elizabeth ........ May 3, '55 Lancaster ......... .437 Lancaster ............ 85
Hyde, Florence M. t.. ....Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ....... .422 Los Angeles ........ 80
Hyde, M. Gertrude *......Feb. 4, '64 Cupertino .......... 510 Cupertino ............ 86
Hyland, Erle W ...............Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ...... 530 Fresno ..................77
Hyman, Loretta
(Murray)t ....................Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ........344 San Francisco ....72
Ireland, Lillian B ......... Aug. 10, '61 Parnass us ..........388 San Francisco .... 68
Jackson, Nell L.t.. ........ June 7, '62 Henry Knox .. .... 662 Los Angeles ........78
Jakobs, Inez ................. ... Feb. 17, '60 Monterey ..........217 Monterey ..............79
Jordan, Evaline ............ Mar. 27, '56 Hartley .............. 19!l Lakeport .............. 94

412

Pf<OC EEDIN GS OF THE

Age
T own
No.
Lodge
Admit ted
Name
Holly wood ..........as
513
..........
'60
enga
29,
Cahu
Aug.
.......
L
Edith
,
trom
Kalls
Los Ange les ........80
Kapa ntais, Edith ..........Feb. 14, '55 Ionic ....................520
e
Kapp , Carri
.. 10 San Jose ..............92
(Vors anger ) .......... ...... July 16, '49 San Jose ..........
30 San Franc isco ....80
......
Gate
n
'55
6,
Golde
Sept.
...
Kent, Evali ne C ..........
Court land ......... ...79
143
..
..........
lin
'58
3,
Frank
an.
J
..
.
..
Kirtla n, Minn ie E..
San Franc isco ... .89
..435
.....
ount
'58
16,
Fairm
Feb.
.
Krejc ik, Rose ..... ..........
Lagom arsino ,
Sutte r Cr eek ...... 89
Henri etta ...... .............. Sept. 2, '58 Henry Clay ...... 95
Rosa .......... 90
Santa
57
........
Rosa
'48
15,
Santa
Lane, Edith B .......... ....... l\'lar.
les ........76
Ange
Los
.405
...
..........
ta
Mone
'49
Lar ter, Gertr ude ....... . Sept. 5,
.......... 72
wood
Holly
5
l....41
Trowe
r
Lee, Zida F .......... ........... Mar. 3, '61 Silve
o... .448 Concord ...... ..........81
Les lie, Mary F .......... .....Dec. 14, '62 Moun t Diabl........
356 Mill Valle y ........ .98
Locke , Teres a ..... ........... Mar. 9, '62 Mill Valle..y........... .279 Hanfor d ................93
Logan , Alice M ...............May 17, '61 Hanfo rd
....... . 21 Hono lulu .............. 82
Look, C. Maud e .......... ... Mar. 16, '59 Hawa iian ........
.. 375 San Franc isco .. .. 86
ond
'58
29,
Richm
ne
u
J
.....
C
Laura
mbe,
Lusco
l
-Sea
Amity
'61
4,
Sept.
...
..........
M
Lyon, Della
Rock ................ 370 San Franc isco .. 81
'41
View .. ...... .401 Oakla nd ......... .......85
30,
Bay
une
J
....
...
W
May
Mack enzie ,
.... 643 Long Beach ........76
L oma
'61
29,
Alta
uly,
J
..
hy
MacK innon, Dorot
20 Sacra me nto ..........81
.....
'60
n
12,
ingto
Sept.
Wash
......
K.
a
McAd am, Emm
Los Angeles ........ 86
585
........
r
heste
'59
4,
Manc
Aug.
...
J
McCa nn, Elizab eth
At ascad ero ..... ...88
..493
......
'58
adero
12,
Atasc
Apr.
.
...
McDa niel, Eliza beth
Oakla nd .......... ......88
244
...
........
'32
raz
24,
Alcat
Mar.
McDo well, Alice M . .....
Wasc o .................... 81
583
........
..........
'58
o
29,
uly
Wasc
McNa irn, Verda A ...... .. J
22 San Franc isco .... 75
Marsh all, Lucy M .. ..... June 29. '61 Occid ental .......... 123
Heald sburg .. .......99
Matth ews, Annie ..... ..Mar. 9, '56 Sot oyom e .. .........431 Richm ond . ..........91
Mayfi eld, Mary .... ..... .. Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ................. 209 San Lu is Obisp o .. 81
Meck , Lulu M .......... .. .Sept. 14, '55 King David 's ......
Ange les .. ......81
Mil ler, Cathe rine E ...... Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ........ ....... 352 Los
San Franc isco .... 83
455
..
est...
W
'62
n
19,
Golde
Oct.
...
.
J...
yn
Carol
r,
Mulle
6 Beve rly Hills ......85
Mur rell, Cathe rine ..... .. .J an. 12, '52 John Marsh a ll....63
Long Beach ........ 79
327
.
......
'59
Beach
7,
Long
July
.......
...
th
Asena
,
Nestle
Los Ange les .. ... ... 85
42
....
...
les
'59
9,
Ange
Los
July
G.
es
Franc
ann,
Neum
Erma
Nicol aus,
368 Glend ale ........ ...... 71
(Robi nson) ........... .. . .Jan. 27, '59 Unity .......... ......
570 San Franc isco ....83
.....
Serv
ry
'62
27,
Milita
Oct.
...
.
..
Nipps , Gertr ude
244 Oakla nd ........ ....... 85
..
....
...
raz
'60
Alcat
23,
Feb.
...
.
...
Nussb aum, Ida ....
613 Sacra mento .......... 76
......
s
Pillar
'63
15,
Three
Apr.
.......
Ohrn, Daisy W ......
79 Eurek a ..................81
..........
oldt
'52
28,
Humb
May
.
Olsen , Minn ie ......... ...
59 Sacra mento .......... 78
........
..........
'60
25,
Union
ApL
.
Olsh, Sophi a ......... ......
Pace, May E.
38 Santa Cruz .......... 73
(Tafo ro) t ................... Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz ........
42 Los Ange les ........90
......
les
Ange
'59
Los
Pitne r, Eva H ........ ....... Jan. 27,
179 Mend ocino ............84
Pitts, Adela ide S ........... Feb. 5, '54 Mend ocino ........
......296 San Diego ............ 73
Pruch a, Velm a F .. .......Feb. 19, '57 Silve r Gate ........
22 San Franc isco .... 85
Raby, Gertr ude L ........ Dec. 17, '57 Occid ental ark ....660 Baldw in Park .... 79
Ray, Ada E ......... ..... . . Aug. 18, '61 Baldw in P
Norm al
Reaso ner, Marie
Heigh ts ..........632 San Diego ............82
(Jefts) .................... ... July 21. '48
'63
Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............81
25,
San
Apr.
......
hine
Josep
rf,
Rehdo
t ...... ......... 12 Napa ......................80
'60
Youn
16,
Dec.
.
....
t
e
Myrtl
V.
Robe rts,
rian ..........264 Santa Maria ........ 82
'63
17,
Hespe
Apr.
..
..
aret
Marg
Robe rtson.
Knoll s ...... 699 Long Beach ..........77
'61
6,
Bixby
May
....
....
Roger s, M. Isabel
.. ............ 169 San Franc isco .... 90
'56
on
6,
Missi
Sept.
...
..........
Rose, Mary .......
.......136 San Franc isco ....78
........
c
'58
16,
Pacifi
Apr.
.....
Ross, J ean .......... .......
s'54
12,
Verita
June
....
...
Roun ds, Flore nce B
Jonat han .......545 San Franc isco ....92
'60
a ................ 537 Holly wood ..........83
17,
Utopi
Russe ll, Sybil A ........... Sept.
Ange les ........ 80
Ryde r, Bertha .......... ......Oct. 17, '58 West L ake.......... 392 Los

GRAN D LODG E OP CALIF ORN I/\

113

A ge
No.
Town
Lodge
Admit ted
Name
isco ....94
Franc
San
139
..
..........
ett
Crock
'54
5,
Jan.
.....
salter J ulia A ..........
ood ......... .421 Ingle wood .......... ..89
Sande ~s. Edith P ..... ..... Apr. 5, '58 Inglew
......... .394 Los Angeles ... .... 73
rsity
Unive
'64
5,
Sanfo rd, Alma • ............J an.
113 San Leand ro ... .....88
..........
..........
Eden
'63
Schlu eter , Louis e G .• .. July, 18,
Berke ley ...... ........87
.489
.
..........
Bay
East
Schoo ley, Mary A. t ...... Mar. 2. '59 Santa Ana .........241 Santa Ana ...... ... ...68
'58
Scovel, Marie M .... .... ..... July 4,
.... 79
Palo Alto ......... ... 346 Palo Alto .............
Seagr ave, Edna R. .......May 14, '52 Hono
lu lu ............409 Hono lulu ...... ... 86
Seymour, Laura ....... .....F eb. l , '36
Ange les .. 373 W. L os Ange les .. 83
Sbeni ck, Elean or .......... Aug. 2, '57 W. L osOak
.......... 61 Oakla nd ... .. ........... 90
ive
L
'59
23,
Sept.
.
..........
..
L
l
Mabe
,
Sibley
.............. 5 Benic ia .................. 80
ia
Benic
'63
17,
Sept.
......
ise'
Lou
M.
er,
Singl
mento ...... 40 Sacra mento ........ 86
Slocu mb, Mabe l W .........Apr. 25, '56 Sacra
............ 315 Norw alk ..............85
alk
Norw
'63
11,
eb.
F
.......
..........
M
Eva
Smith ,
..... 61 Oakla nd .. .. ....... .....94
.......
Oak
Live
'60
6,
Sept.
...
..........
M
Smith , Grace
568 Oakla nd .......... ......78
.......
.
Blvd.
Park
'61
16,
Mar.
.....
..........
L
Smith , Hazel
576 El Cajon ..............86
..
..........
Cajon
t
E
'61
16,
Oct.
...
..........
L
Smith, Lillia n
193 Fernd ale ......... ..... 90
.......
.....
ale
Fernd
'58
29,
Dec.
.
Snow den, Jean E ..........
Bak ersfie ld ..........91
224
........
sfield
Baker
37
13,
Snyd er, Aman da G .........Apr.
Cedar ville ............ 83
235
..
y
Va\le
ise
Surpr
'60
6,
Spald ing, Olive G ......... May
San Franc isco ....80
216
.......
..........
Doric
'60
29,
Stapff , Mary S .......... ..... Mar.
Bellfl ower ..... ......78
523
..
........
owe1·
Bellfl
60
Steig elman, Joa nt .. ...... Mar. 19,
ond ............ 83
Richm
.431
.....
.........
Alpha
Steve nson, Julia M .......Aug. 17, '57
................... .472 Hawa ii ..... ............. 81
Stevenso12i Teres a ....... .Feb. 28, '63 Maui Ga
............290 Los Angeles ........75
Stewa rt. J!;dna May....... .Dec. 15, '61 East n te
...... 30 San Fr ancisc o .... 85
Stolle, Lucy E ................. Oct. 29, '59 GoldevaleGate
.......... ..336 Oakla nd ................71
Fruit
'63
14,
Dec.
......
na•
Johan
ht,
Straig
sior ..... .......166 San Francisco .... 79
Strom berg, L aura A. .... Mar. 5, '59 Excel
ille ...... ..... 134 Vacav ille .............. 90
Vacav
'37
2,
June
..........
...
L
aura
Strou d, L
................ 396 Alam eda ..............85
o
Apoll
'51
1,
eb.
F
.....
..........
C
Swain , Sarah
les . ..... 42 Los Angeles ........ 89
Ange
Los
'59
12,
Sept.
.........
S
Sada
Swee ney,
........563 Los Angel es ........ 84
Park
South
'58
28,
Aug.
..
Tier, Sofie ....................
h .... 44 San Franc isco ....80
Moria
t
Moun
'63
2,
Aug.
........
Tillm an, Ruby M.•
... .354 San Franc isco .... 76
..........
io
Presid
'59
30,
Nov.
.
Timm er, Anne M ..........
.206 Mode sto ................84
........
slaus
Stani
'62
14,
Feb.
Townson, Mary P. t ........
on's
Solom
King
'57
5,
Tunst ead, Rosa ..............July
Seapo rt ..........260 San Franc isco .... 87

Van Harre veld,
's......209 San L uis Obisp o .. 78
Const ance• ................ Jun e 25, '64 King David
Van Sickle ,
o ................247 Fresn o ..................86
J oseph ine• ..................Apr. 28, '64 FresnGatos ..........292 Los Gatos ............ 110
Velsir , Vera R. • ..............J an. 24, '64 Los
Waite , Flore nce ............Dec. 9, '54 Amity
370 San Franc isco .... 85
Seal Rock
.336 Oaklan d ......... ...... .81
..
..
vale
Fruit
'62
9,
ug.
A
.....
.......
G
Anne
Walker,
nbeck ........319 L os Ange les ........96
Wells , Jenni e A ............. Dec. 27, '54 Holle
.... 669 Glend ale .............. 86
ian
Merid
'59
29,
Dec.
...
.........
W
Whea t, Daisy
. .... 4 42 San Diego . .... ...... 92
mer
Black
'62
19,
Nov.
.......
..
C
White , Harri ette
... 401 Oakla nd ...... .......... 91
.....
View
Bay
'52
8,
Oct.
.
..........
Whitt aker, Ada H
1 San Franc isco .... 86
.....
.
.
rnia
Califo
'60
18,
Aug.
...
Wilki e, E va L .......... ....
Oakla nd .......... ......84
349
...
..........
ia
Sequo
'61
22,
Sept.
...
..
Willia ms, Winn ie B
San Franc isco .. .. 90
I
...
.....
rnia
Califo
'54
18.
Wisew ell, Evely n .......... Feb.
nd .......... ......87
Oakla
349
....
..........
ia
Sequo
'63
19,
Wood , Uriel P . ..............Feb.
......... .....87
eda
Alam
396
..
..........
..
..
pollo
A
'59
2,
Wynm an, Eva G .... ....... Sept.
Wust er, Yolan de
Wash ingto n ...... 20 Sacra mento .......... 73
(Deck er)t ............. ....... Aug. 2, '59 Teham
a .............. 3 Sacra mento .......... 71
Youn g, Edith !.*............Nov. 11, '63 Nava l .. ................ 87 Valle jo .......... ........ 84
Zimm erman, Edith • ......Oct. 28, '63

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT 1963-1964
July 1. 1963 - June 30, 1964
DEATHS-WOMEN-AVERAGE AGE 85.22
Lodge
No.
Name
Town
Admitted
Age
Allred, Rosa G ............... Apr. 19, '64 Mt. Davidson .... 481 San Francisco ....83
Ashbrooke, Minnie M...J an. 19, '64 Palestine ............ 351 Los Angeles ........87
Baker, Mary .................. May 10, '64 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 89
Bateman, Emma F .........Jan. 7, '64 Monte Vista ...... 655 Long Beach ........ 73
Bell, Edith L ................... Feb. 20, '64 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ....81
Boyer, Maud A. .............. Apr. 14, '64 Harbor ................502 Richmond ............88
Boyer, Mildred .............. Dec. 22, '63 Mt. Moriah........ 44 San Francisco ....91
Darby, Genevieve ........ July 16, '63 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley .............. 85
Dibble, Catherine O ..... Feb. 25, 'G4 Pentalpha .......... 202 Los Angeles ........ 86
Dixon, Nora E.............. .Mar. 18, '64 West Lake .......... 392 Los Angeles ........ 89
Douthitt, Edith ..............Mar. 6, '64 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ....87
Dunn, Mabel .................. Mar . 10, '64 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose .............. 77
Edwards, Emma ............ Aug. 26, '63 Mosaic ................ 218 Livermore ............81
Figg, Minnie W... ............ Feb. 10, '64 Franklin ............ 143 Courtland ............97
Geibel, Theresa ............Apr . 20, '64 Fairmount .......... 435 San Francisco ....86
Garnett, Natalie .... ........ Apr. 14, '64 Mt. View ............ 194 Mt. View ..............72
Gilbert, Tillie .............. Sept. 20, '63 Hillcrest ............ 573 Berkeley .............. 87
Harr ison, Martha ........ Aug. 27, '63 King Solomon's
Seaport .......... 260 San Francisco ..102
Hill, Neva ........................Dec. 15, '63 Oakland ............188 Oakland ................80
Keller, Agnes ................ Feb. 8, '64 Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego ............82
Lafitte, Viola M............. June 7, '64 LaParfaite
Union .............. 17 San Francisco ....85
Lamb, Laura T ............... June 20, '64 Kilauea .............. 330 Hawaii ..................84
Mikkelsen, Louise S ..... Sept. 25, '63 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz .......... 81
Mitchell, Maude N .........Dec. 5, '63 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino .. 86
Mudgett, Emma L ......... Mar. 26, '64 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco .... 92
McCord, Zidana ............Oct. 11, '63 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Ros a .......... 88
Pfeiffer, Nina F ............... Jan. 28, '64 Pinole ................353 Pinole .................... 80
Rosenberg, Maybell L ... Feb. 28, '64 Fidelity .............. 120 San Francisco .... 85
Smith, Myrtle M ........... Sept. 1, '63 Azure .................. 533 Fullerton .............. 83
Tweedy, Mary L ........... Mar. 7, '64 Thousand Oaks ..478 Berkeley .............. 84
Webster, Emma ............ Dec. 21, '63 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento ........92
Williams, Annie F .........Aug. 20, '63 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco .... 84

WITHDRAWN
Withdrew
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Childer, Cora ................ June 3, '64 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco .... 87
Name

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

415

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1964
Girls-29
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
T own
Age
Carroll, Christine ........ June 30, '62 Downey .............. 220 Downey ................16
Caswell, Georgia
R enee ..........................Apr. 5, '57 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................16
Cooper, Debrah Joyce..Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ......12
Crane, Diane P .• ..........Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk.......382 Los Angeles ........ 6
Crane, N. Terri• ............Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk....... 382 Los Angeles ........13
Crane, Vivian• ..............Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk ....... 382 Los Angeles ........ 11
Edmunds, Deborah S. •
June 13, '64 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................ 10
Fitzgerald, Deborah• ..Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt...260 San Francisco .... 13
Fitzgerald, Dorothea• .. Jan. 19, '64 K ing Sol. Sprt...260 San Francisco .... 17
Fitzgerald, Marsha J .• ..Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt ... 260 San Francisco ....15
Fitzgerald, Melanie• .... Jan. 19, '64 King Sol. Sprt...260 San Francisco .... 8
Gettig, Debra G.• .......... June 16, '64 Hollywood ........ 355 Hollywood .......... 6
Gettig, L inda J.• ............ June 16, '64 H ollywood ........ 355 Hollywood .......... 5
Hampton, Carol K .........Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ...... .. 5
Hampton, J ennie L .......Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........ 7
Hampton, Vivian ..........Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ........ 9
Hillhouse, Linda ............ Jan. 27, '62 Palms ..................512 Los Angeles ........ 16
Larimore, Carolyn ........July 7, '62 East San Diego .. 561 East San Diego....13
Larimore, L inda S .........July 7, '62 East San Diego .. 561 East San Diego ....15
Ritchie, L inda L .............Dec. 13, '58 Eucalyptus ........ 243 Hayward .............. 13
Smith, Carolyn Diane ..Feb. 1, '63 Signal ................ 543 Long Beach ........ 12
Torrance, Debra L .........Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ........ 11
T orrance, K athy D ....... Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ........ 9
Torrance, Pa mela J .......Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ........ 7
Torrance, Sheryl M ..... Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........ 685 Sa n Marino ........ 6
Wallach, Sandra s.• ...... Sept. 8, '63 Home .................. 721 No. Hollywood .... 7
Weddell, Jeanette L .....Jan. 6, '63 Palatine .............. 314 Palatine, Illinois ..13
Weddell, Paulette D .....Jan. 6, '63 Palatine .............. 314 Palatine, Illinois .. 12
Werner, Beverly A. ......Sept. 3, '57 J as. A. Foshay.... 641 Playa del Rey .... 16
•Indicates admission during current year .

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1964
Boys-39
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Archinal, S teven ..........Nov. 12, '56 Liberal Arts ...... 677 W. Los Angeles .. 15
Bloedel, Kurt R. ............ June 16, '62 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........11
Carroll, H arry L ., Jr ..... June 30, '62 Downey ........... .320 Downey ................11
Cooper, Douglas J .........Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San L eandro ......12
Cooper, Dwight W .......Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ......13
Cooper, William R. ......Nov . 25, '61 Eden ....................113 San L eandro ......14
Cox, Dennis L. ..............Sept. 5, '55 Fairfax ..............556 Larkspur .............. 13
Cox, Wayne Alan.......... Aug. 11, '54 Fairfax .............. 556 L ark spur .............. 15
Crane, J oseph T . • ..........Mar. 16, '64 Highland Pk . .... 382 Los Angeles ........ 8
Drake, Charles W .........Nov. 30, '62 Fellowship ....... .480 Oakland ................14
Edmunds, R. Bob• ........ June 13, '64 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................12
Fuller, Don, Jr............... Sept. 12, '59 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................ 16
Galvery, Frank J. •• ....Sept. 6, '63 So. California ....278 L os Angeles ........ 17
Howey, Bruce ................ Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ... ...467 Los Angeles ........ 14
Howey, Bud ..................Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ..... .467 L os Angeles ........ 13
Kausrud, Stuart C. • ......Jan. 26, '64 Burbank ............ 406 B urbank .............. 11
King, Brent• ..................Apr. 11, '64 San Fernando .... 343 San Fernando ....15

416

GRA ND LOD GE OF CAL IFO

PRO CE EDIN GS OF THE

No .
Age
Adm itted
Loe/Re
T own
Nam e
519
'61
..
6,
.......
t.
-18
.......
Sep
..
···-·-lid
......
eles
Euc
ave
D
Ang
nt,
Los
K inn imo
4, ' 63
···--146 Uki ah ---···· ··· ····------18
Kin sler , Ma rk D.• ... ...... .N ov.. 1, '59 Abe ll ---·-······-·
..........648 San B erna rdin o....11
McC orm ick, Joh n L .....Mar. 1, ' 57 Dam ascu s ......
.... 464
Man n, Geo rg e D .............Jant. 12, '62 Alta Vis ta ..... .....450 Dal y City -····-------13
14
Van N uys
Van Nuy s ···------...
Mel che r, Bur t N ...... ..... Sep
10, '62
ois.... 7
Moo re, Dan C . ...............No v .. 10, '62 Ben ton ···--·- ·-·--- - 64 Ben ton, Illinois
· 64 Ben ton, Illin .... 9
B ento n -·------··--·
Moo re, Dav id F ............. Nov
...... 64 Ben ton, Illin ois.... 8
10, '62
Mo ore , D ean ... .. .............Nov . 6, '63 Ben ton .. ......
.......... 607
Per kin s, Ma rk A.• ........Sep t. 6, '63 Soj our ner .. ...... 607 Dua rte -·······-·····----l J8
Per kins , Ray mon d A. • Sep t. 6, '63 Soj our ner ...... ....607 Dua rte ····--······- ----·
Soj our ner
Dua rte ...... ·····--··---12
Per kin s, Wa lter E. • ...... S ept.
6, '63
...... .... 607 Dua rte --···-···· ····---.14
Per kin s, Wil son • ...... ....Sep t.. 13, '58 Soj our ner
........243
d ....... .......12
Rit chie , Tho mas ............ Dec. 4, '61 Euc alyp tus .. ...... 513 Hay warood
....... ...17
ga
Aug
lyw
uen
.....
Hol
......
Cah
J
rew
And
ith,
Sm
4, '61 Cah uen ga ...... .... 513 Hol lyw ood ·····-----15
g.
Au
.....
.......
l
hae
Mic
ith,
Sm
11 , '62
ritos ......674 Lon g Bea ch ....... ...14
Stra uss, Mit che ll ....... ... Feb .. 24, '63 Los Cerga
.......... 513 Hol lyw ood ..........12
Oct
uen
...
Cah
.......
•
A.
evin
K
Tay lor,
'63
7,
te .... 358 Los Angeles ....... .17
t.
Sta
Sep
....
...
den
Gol
.......
.......
Ed•
Utz, B.
........604 S a nta Ana ...... ......10
'63
......
12,
une
ilee
J
......
Jub
ig
Cra
,
Van Bus kirk
'63
....... .604 San ta Ana ....... ..... 8
12,
e
......
Jun
..
..
ilee
ey
Jub
effr
J
,
Van Bus kirk
'63
8,
pt.
Se
··---721 No. Hol ly woo d ----12
......
···-···
M.*
tt
·····Hom e
Wa llac h, Sco
21, '54 Mo nte Vis ta .... ..655 Lon g Bea ch ........ 15
Wa rric k, Rob ert ....... ... Nov .
re nt yea r.
*In dica tes adm iss ion dur ing cur
••In dica tes read mis sion .

y 1, 196 3 to Jun e 30,
De par ted Du rin g the Yea r, Jul

MA SO NIC HO ME S CO NT RIB
Cont r ib~tio na

to Spec i•l Re1 erv• •

inte rest but n o t nece

EST~US :

l.l!:PLACEHE I/TS
U:SE IVES r o1. APD IT I 01'S AND
/442 )
e
Lodg
er
Jaae a W!l liaa Br owo ( Rl acka
es Lod ge /637 )
Char l e s Po ttaa n (Pal isad t ;y Lodg e /120 )
oli
Lewi s I. rroa g oog Crid
)
bert ( Fi deli ty Lod ge /120
~loxand t r M. Gil
Clar e n ce H. Good
Paul T, Monte ith
Char le s

w. Step aaek

l Lodg e /144 )
John Tonn ings •n (Or i enta

To tal 11

z,so o.oo
1,54 7 .21

2,so o.00

1,02 1.60
io,0 00 . 00
7 ,410 . 24

COVINA SPEC IA L l.ESElVE
&Sr. t Tt;S :

Lodr.e 1662 )
J ohn G, Bodo a (He nry Koox
( Atas cado ro Lodg e /4 93)
Wal ter Ka .Bar ratt Clayt ton
lle Lod ge 1303 )
Hu gh Alle n Crai g (Por •r•i
ge / 44 9)
Laza r L. Dr opo (Par k Lod (So n Fern ando Lode • / 343)
Lala nd Stan for d Edwa rd s
Mory fits patr ick
Lodg e /188 )
Ward w. Gols or (Oak land
)
Sadi e L. Hart ohor ne
th Gato Lodge /32 0
Thom as f. Haw thorn e (Sou
th
Mi nerv a J. Holl incs wor
Lodg e / 246 )
Loro nso H, Aatk in (Poa ona Lodg e /339 )
h (Ful ler ton

Joa• ph S . Hono

lll SC1

)

Laur ence r ~
ro Lodge /~62
Wa l ter I. (oho (Pau l Ro•o
ern Cali forn i a Lod ge / 278)
Na diao n T. Owen a (S outh
hi• Lod ge / 5 42)
kera
(Lan
r
Wal ter ff. Part e
d Lodg e /618 )
John v. Prin e lo (Sou thlan
l o ao 14. Sc hirf
e # 327)
Edna Shtw (Lon e Beac h Lodg
aabr a Lode • # 322)
Ade li na E. Stev ena (Alh
Jo hn Holl •
er
Hyde

Age
dllte)
Dat e Discharged (atd epa rture
itted
Adm
e
Dat
16
.
......
......
N ame
.....
......
-64
29, '62 ....... ....... ........... 4-10
How ey, Kat hle ne .......... Apr .. 10, '53 ....... ....... .......____ 6-11-64 .............. ............18
Oct
.
.......
a
bar
Bar
g,
glin
Yun
...... ....... ...... .......18
18, '55 ...·------·-·--·------··- 6-12-64......
...... ............ 14
Wil liam s, Shi rley ....... .May
4-64
6-1
--····---···-·14, '59·-··-·-Cru iksh ank , Sta rlan a ..Sep t.

25.0 0
900. 00

Mart ha Lone

H•l• n A. Gira rd

MISC :

Bo ys -7

Gi rls - 4

UT IO NS

1964
Jut;y t , 1 9 63 - Jun• 30,
conn •ctio n by
s
~at•
indi
ion
(Tho LodR• desi gnat
tsAr tly by ••ab erah lp)

196 4

Age
date )
Dat e Discharged (at departure
itted
Adm
e
Dat
9
.......
......
Nam e
......
.......
9-63
13, '62 ...... ................... 8Ye lusi ch, And rew ........ May 13, '62 ......................... 8- 9-63 ....... ............. ......12
y
Ma
.....
..
.......
n
Joh
,
sich
u
Yel
-63 ...... ....... ...... ....... 12
May 20, ' 63 .. ·-·--·· ···-········-·- 9-12
-64 .............. ............11
Sul liva n, Ste phe n C.....Sep
6-14
...
.......
.......
..
......
'59
t. 14,
-64 ....... ...................17
Cru iksh ank , Sid ney A. J a n.
6-30
......
......
.......
......
'57
6,
.......... ....... ........ 17
Clin ksc ale, Fre d S .........
-64
6-30
......
......
......
Mar . 5, '55 .......
.. ....... ...............17
-64
Ma nn, Tho mas E ....... ... Nov
6-30
.....
......
.......
. 21, '54.......
Wa rric k, Bruce V .........

417

RN IA

Aa br oa e • Glad 1 • Bowy
foun d a ti on
v . A . Garr is on

Dlua
Erno •t Col ll as

C.

ff.

Y•rn dale Chap t•r No . 18,
l, A. M.

Mi as Caro l L. Ronl ioe
oria a,
Spac • Tach nolo s1 Lab orat
Ia.c.

23 ,883 .89
175 .00
1,0 53.3 3
250 . 00
2,00 0.00
11,6 85.8 4
1,08 5 . 11
9 1 195 .42

22,5 03.0 5

4,88 0 .99

1 52.6 7

23,2 72.1 8
1,00 0 . 00
3,66 5.25
11, 232 . 63
' , 101. 47
488 . 9 7

1,38 4.50
9,22 5.ll
241. 52

i.edw ood Chap ter
Delio l&J

Mi c uali to Circ le of
Lo•p oo, Bet hel /290
Mob il Oil Coa pany

John I. Pebr aoa
Gert rude r, Scbu aack er

Sq•a r• and Coap aaa Cl•b
or Sao raH nt o

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

418

CHiISTMA S AND INTElTA TNMEllT US&Rl' E

DECOTO SPECIAL IESEiV~
ESTATES:

llISC1

Halla• Hana Anderson
A, John Barthol • {Wilthir o Lodce /445)
)
Walter ••. Barratt Clayton (Atascad ero Lodgo /493
ftugh Allon Craig (Port e rY i lle Lodge /303)
Benjaain J, Goodel l
Tho••• f. Hawthorn e (So uth Cato Lodg e /3 20)
Anna Charlott e Hildebra nd
Harr i son H. Jaaoton (Wost Lake Lodgo /392)
Pauline K. Jone•
Walter I. Kohn { Paul loYore Lodge /462)
Sallie Ann Lyon
!Ya L. HcKon iio
Linden Hovard Mno re
Fred Henry Murray (L i .. Oak Lod ge /61)
Christ i ne I, Petora
Ma ye A. Peterson
Bur ton K. Pickel (Occide ntal Lodge /22)
John v. Pr ing le (Southla nd Lodge /618)
Emily J. 1011
Williaa S c haal•lon {Mount Moriah Lod ge /44)
lupart Schulth eis•
Edna T, Shaw (Long Beach Lodge /327)
Elaa P, Shindler
Ma be l Spencer (Yorba Linda Lodge /4 69)
Adol i no E. StoYens (Alhambr a Lodge /322)
Juliua S•aplaky (Militar y SorYice Lodge /579)
Jack Vann
Honry Vo winkol (Ba ldor Lodce /393)
Elsie Jan• Wood• (Hichlan d Park Lode• /382)
Yilliaa N. Araatron c
C, ff. Bluo
Ernt1t Collin•
Sa• D1vid1 on Co.
lrwia C. Kautaan
F. S. Vandogr ift
Louil Lyaholl
Crover 'Kathe••
Mobil Oil Coapany
Al Pali o kaitis
Tho•• • C. Pursiano
Whitnoy Henry

100.00
500 ,00
175,00
1,053,33
2,64 6 ,83
22,503,0 5
6,679 .ffS
76.00
1,600 ,00
3,665.25
250,00
1,000 , 00
400 , 00
l,000 ,00
6,565 .12
2 2 ,800 ,U
71,2~6.74

488,97
2,171.34
500 , 00
6,58 1, 04
9,22 5,12
14 '750. 95
6 , 106,65
241, 5 2
24 5. 58

Saporior Calitorn ia
'DoMolay A1111.

Kaighta Te•plar Coaaand ori o a
Sacraae nto Wo4 2
Nevada Ho. 6
Marysvi lle No. 7
San. J oa• Mo. 10
Chico No, 12
Colden Cata No, 16
Naval llo. 19
Wats ~ nville No . 22
Vi ulia No. 26
S•n Lu is Obi•po Mo. 21
Pa9adena Mo. 31

Nevada No. 6
Potalu•a llo , 22
Saa ta Cru1 No. 38
Uoalh llo . 44
ffu•boldt No. 52
Son Lu is No. 62
Ri verside Wo, 61
Crovn No . 12
Hanf o rd No. 7 4

soo.oo

Gert rude F. Sc hu•acter
60S th Masonic Distric t
Offi cara A1Jocia ti on
Frank Sibby
Space T~chnolo g y Laborat ories,In c.
Square & Co •p•11 Club-Sa cra•ento
Max Co nrad Stern
Loalio E , Woodwor th
Krs. Alta Bloss
J. & .. Dr•per
C .. E. Dunn.

Mo unt Shaota No. 32
!ure ka llo . 3S
Sou.thtra . Cal if or nia ,;o. 37
San franci• c o Ho. 41
$ 1.n ta Cru1 Wo 4 44
Palo Alto No, 47
Whittio r No, 51
laperia l Valley llo. 54
Cahary No , 62
C•ntenn ial No. 14

l or•l Arch Mason Cha pter•

2, 000 . 00
100 , 04

ST UDSNTS 1 LOAN AllD SCROl.AIS Hfp !'UllD

Mae 1

apprecia tion tbo
Tho Trust••• of th• Masonic Ho••• ackaowlo dge with
contribu tion• receiTed froa:

Pomona No.

76

San Pedro Ho, 89
Whittie r No, 91

Palo Alt o No . 93
San Cabriol Valloy No, 100
iedoGdo Wo. 10 1

Mill Va lley No, 108
South Pasa den a No, 112
Se bastopo l No. 117
Hunt ington Park Wo. 127
Soarch li ght No, 133
Wil• ing t on No , 141
Suttor No. 11
fidolity NO, 96

loyal and Select Matters Council l
Pa•adena No. 16
Santa Cru• No. 17
Yhalia No . 43
A. i

l•d•o od Eapire No . 46
Zabu.d Mo. 49

A,S.i . (Bodieo)
h \lrlinga• •
Fr1sno
Oak land

Sa.cra•e nto
Sin Joae
Baktrtfi e ld

Distric t Officers As1 ocl ation1
420t h Distric t
42lst Di otrict
506 th Distric t

Californ ia Stat• Craft

e28th Distri c t
530th Diotric t
536th Diatric t

Maaonic Cl u.b s
The •d ate s• of
Las Palaas L~ d g e
Al Malaikah Purveyo r •
Long Ti ea c h Kasonic Club
San Francis c o Square Club
T•l• phone Masonic C lu.b of L.A.
Job'•

Da~ghter,

Insuraac e Square Club,
East Bay
t dia«lo Ma sonic ClLl.b L.A.
Hugh. . r i r o Point
Coapau Club

Rainbow f or Cirl1, DtKolay

Loi Ili•a A11eabl7 llo. 2
Dethol No. 124
ling City Al•o•b1y Mo. 48

Lindon ~·••ably llo . 228
LoKingto n C haptor, DeNola7
Monterey Park Chap. 1 DeMol&J

'419

420

CHRISTMAS AND EliTEITAISKXN T USUVii (Conti nued)

~o.

126

San larael Chapter No, 215
Starletto Club of Tnosand Oaks

Miguelito Chapter ll o , 176
East Day Matrons ot 1951
Pali•ados Chapter No, 474

>fie cell1neou1
Ma9onic Jackaon Meaorial Fund

w. A. Slo on
Warren J. Hoaaeth
Nat ional !feat Treating Co.
Richard B. Traer
Mr s. Walte r Marquart
Shin Chapt er, Order ot
Go lden Hipper
)(r.

~

CHRISTMAS AllD ENTElTAl!IMBNT l&SERV£ (CoatinU4d)
Lode•• (Continued)

latt•ra Star and A••ranth
M•rced1a Chapter

>frJ.Stanley J. Fiach1r

Geo. R. lleArst, Jr.
ll1rald-E•a• iner
A & M Sa1h and Doo r Co.

Lexington Ha.soni c Hall Aa3n.
Mr s . D, Harrison

Sast Bay Masonic Rowling Aasn .

Jo • s L. Bar r7

Pe Chapte r,Ord er of Goldta

Slipper, H,K,C.
Pay King Vik<
iichard f. Pri c e
Walter i . Eaton
E. L . Crone•eyer
The Ladie s' Coz pa!s Club
East Wh ittier No. 776
San Gabrie l Valley Nobltttea
Lor en Jl . Sweet

Golde n Sword No. 105
Erle If, ll7land
Mrs. Lila Randall

Hilla Ferr7 No. 236
C1Aadalupe No, 237
Colusa !lo. 240
Santa Ana No. 241
Laur•l No. 245
Po•ona llo , 246
fre"'o No. 247
L•ndmark No. 253
leading No , 254
Pe nrhyn No. 256
Everg re en S o. 25 9

TuSC•n No. 26 1
Hespe riao No. 264
Or1and ll o , 265
Galt No. 267
Olive Rranch No. 269
Paaadena No. 272
lrreyo ll"o. 274
Hanford No. 279
Mo unt Shast a No. 26 1
South West No. 28 3
S•n ~iguel No. 28 5
Pas o Robles No. 286
Els inorc )tilo.

Lods• s
California No, 1
~estern St ar Mo.
Ttha•a No .. 3

Corinthian No.

~

San Joie h'o. 10

Yount No. 12
Eure1<a No. 16
La Parfaite tl nion No, 17
San Joaqu i n No, 19
Washi ngton No. 20
Hawaiian No. 21

Oecidontal No. 22
Madison No. 23
!1 Dorado No.

26

Trinity No. 27
Colden Ca te No. 30
Colden llill No. 32
San Diego No. 35
San ta Cruz No. 38
Sacra•~nto No. 40
H o~nt Moriah No. ••
Texas No. 46

Santa Rola llo. 57
Union !lo. 58
Plu•as No. 60
Livo Oak No. 61
Natoma No. 6 4
Enter prise Wo. 70
Yol o ll o . 81
Veaper Ho. 84
Nnal llo. 87
Yose•it• h'o.

9~

Clay No. 10 1
Lexincton So. 104

Pajar o No. 110
Chico No, 111
1-:den No. 113
fidelity No. 120

421

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

Ala•o !lo. 1 22
Latayetto No. 126
Heraann No, 127
Vhalia So. 126
Nicolaus No. 129
Pacir!c llo. 136
Croc1<ett No. 13 9
Frankl in llo. 143
Ori•ntal No. 1(4
Molino llo . 150
Woodland llo, 156
Excelsi or No. 166
Redwood Ci ty No, 166
Mission llo , 169
Antioc h No . 175
Petalu•a No . 160
Keith llo. 167
Oakland No . 166
Ilario !lo. 191
Ferndale So. iq3
Mounta i n View No . 194

Buckeye No. 195
No. 196
SilTeyvi\le No . 201

llil~ingt on

Stanislau1 No. 206

lio Viota llo , 208
Kinr David's llo. 209
1riondahip No. 210
Oak Grove No. 215
Monterey No. 217
Mo111ic So . 218
Speranza It al ian • ~o. 219
Downey No. 220

Roseville S o , 222
fla.lr: er s fie- ld !oln. 22 4

Brooklyn No . 225
San Mateo ~ o. 226
Athens N ~ . 228

269

East Gate No. 2 90
L ih~rty

No. 299

Redlando No. 300
Onta rio No. 301
Azuu No, 305
A•hlar No. 306
T••e s cal No. 314
Norwalk So. 315

South Cate No. 320
Ali oa l No. 32 1
Coro n3. No. 324

llo ed les No . 326
Redondo No. 326
Pacific Gr r>ve No. 331
rruihale No. 3 36
Carquipes ~o . 33 7
S t1rP Kiog No . 344
Palo Alt o No. 346
MeKinl e r No. 347
San 6ernardino Ho. 3 48
Sequoia No . 349
Palestin e No . 351
Pinole No. 353
Mill Valley Nn. 356
South Pasade na No. 367
A•ity No, 370
leProgres de L'0ee•ni1 No. 371
Jewel No. 374
Ri ch• ond No . 375
Artesia No. 377
F i llmore No. 379
Highland Park No . 362
El Centr o No. 384
Dinuba No . 385
Parnas sus Wo. 388
Bald er No, 3 93
University No , 394
lturlingaae No. 4 00

Jerba Rl&lna No. 403

La Meoa No, 407
Honolulu No. 409
Perrio No. 411

Si lver Trowel >lo.

415

Lindsay No. 416
Kidway llo. 426
San Di~•• No. 428
Pittsburg No. 42'1
Alpha No. 431
Mari co pa No. 434
Fairmo unt No. 4 35
Standard llo. 44 0
Coronado ~o. 441
Blackmer No. 442
To rrance No. 447

Mount Diablo No, 448
Park No. 449
Argonaut No. Hl
Paul ~cverr No. 462
Libe rta• No. 466
Ro c kridg e No. 4 68
Delta No . 471
Temblor No . 4 77
fh ous and Oa k5 So. 478
Colden iul• ~o. 4 7 9
Mt. ~Avidson llo. 461
Bell No. 483
Albert Pik• No. 46(
Caledonia No. 466
Patterso~ ~o. 488
Ea•t Bay llo . 469
Wood•tock No. 491
Atascader o No. 493
Acorn. No. 49.C

Capital City No. 499
Roosevelt No. 500
Harhor Nn. 502
Seaside No. 504

El Seg un do llo. 507
Cupertino No. 510
Sunnyval• No.

511

Cahuenga No, 513
Argonne Wn . Sl4
1 .. rt No . 516
Piedmont No. 521
Bay Cit7 No , S26
Cov~nant

No. 527

Re nr7 Morse S tephens No. 5 41
Signal No. 543
San Gabriel No, 546
Lakeshore No. 551
Point Fir•in !lo. 558

East San Di•co Nn. 561

s. Ii. Haetott No. SH
El Cajon Valley No. 576
Procrea•i~e ~o. 578
Santa Maria !l o . 580
Securit7 No. 581
El Se reno No. 566
Kauai !lo, 589
Co•pa .. No. 590

PROC EEDIN GS OF T H E

422

E (Conti n1Md)
CHRIS TIUS .I.ND EllTIRT.l.INKENT RESERV
Lode• • (Coat io.,.d)
Tuju1> 1a No , 592
Ser-.i ce No. 594
Al•x.C rahaa Bell Mo. 595
Gua r dian No . 596
'Di•on d No . 603
ProYi dent No . 609
Poi1>t Lo•• llo, 620
Th• Gorde n• No. 621
liTer• ide No. 635
Paliaa des llo. 63 7
Indian ioev No , 638
Alta Loaa llo. 643
A. F. E, Irwin No. 645

Da•aa cua No. 648

La Br.ia Nn. 650
Malta Ho. 661
ll:awea h No. 665
San Gorgo nio No, 668
John P. Jaraan No. 6£9
~ o. 673
rar
Loa Cerri tos No. 674
Xode 1to No. 675

•••t

Willow Glen No, 676
CarlH l No, 680
Dot Palo• No. 681
.l.lban: r No. 686
Oilda le No, 688
San Carlo s No. 690
Indian Well• Volle y No. 691
Orhdo llo. 704
S an Loren1 0 Valley No . 718
latero No. 719
Min•r •l Xinc No. 720

Saint John' • No. 725

Penin •ula No. 745
Xoreed No. H9
Golde n Rowl No, 755
Clayto n Tal l ey llo, 756
Ves t CoTin a No. 758
Josiah 11. lolle r llo. 7U
Tejon No . 773
Waik i ki No. 774
loll i nc Kille No, 781
Chow chilla llo. 485

GE NE RA L AP PE ND IX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

423

GENE R AL APPE ND I X
CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees ........ ............................... ..................................... 424
Special Committees ................................................................................ 427
Constitutional Boards ....................................... ... .................................. 429
Masonic Homes ·············-················-·······-··············--·-··························· 430
California Masonic Temple.................................................................. 431
Directors Ma sonic Clubhouses .............................................................. 431
Registration and Mileage Payments.................................................... 432
List of Constituent Lodges.................................................................... 478
Extinct Lodges. Including Consolidations............................................ 495
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization ........... ................... 500
List of Inspectors .................................................................................... 507
Foreign Grand Lodges................................. ......................................... 510
Alphabetical List of Lodges .................................................................. 515
Correspondence R eport Announcement .... ................................. ......... 522
Index ···········-·······-······················--· ········-----·-···························· ·············· 523

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1964-1965

PAY OF MEMBERS

STANDING COMMITTEE S

Matthew M. Codon ( 42) ·····-·········-···········-···-······ ·······530 Rossrnore Ave., Los Angeles 5
John V. Bacigalupi (1 9 1) ............................................................ 108 Belle A ve., San Rafael
W illiam D. Knight (437) .............................................................. 44332 No. Fig, Lancaster
Archer R. Richa rdson ( 195) ............................................................................ Stewart's Point
Bert Menge (487) .............................................................................. 1404 Nebraska, Vallejo
William J. Caven ( 111 ) ......................................... ........................... P. 0. Box 190, Durham
Ward H. Figgins (301) ....................-............................. 1038 West Princeton St., Ontario

JURISPRUDENC E
John R. Moore (667) ........................................................453 S. Spring St.. Los Angeles 13
Louis C. Drapea u (633) .......................................................... .500 Sunset Ave., Oak Vtew
Leo E. Anderson (355) ................................................ 700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17
Henry C. Clausen (630) ·-·········································234 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Joe L. Shell (35) ...................................................................... 2858 Kalmia PI.. San D ltgo 1
Elmer W. Hea ld (384) ............................................................ 1005 Wensley St., El Centro
Wakefield Taylor (41) .............................. ·-········-····················· 1270 Escobar St., Martinez
Ewart L. Merica ( 1 ) ....................................................3535 Fillmore St., San Francisco 23
Harlan P. Huebner (445) ................................................610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 14
Oscar Lawler• (290) ............................................ 800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Leslie E. Wood (609) .............................................................. 1808 "Q" St., Sacramento 11
Ellsworth Meyer (677) .........................._.....................____)4 15 Linda Ridge Rd., Pa_,adena
Guy B. Mize (368) ......................................... ......................... 1238 ldlcwood Rd., Glendale
Ira W . Cobum (216) .................................................. 2440 Mariposa St., San Francisco 10
Elbert W. Davis (571) ·-·-···········-································-········-··2908 Russell St, Berkeley 5
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ........................................... .5300 H arbord Dr., Oakland 18
Robert B. Watts (518) ............................................................... .7949 Princess St., La Jolla
Arthur A lexander (733) ......................................................2103 Tevis Rd., Sacramento 25
Albert J. Day (392) ..........................................................5853 W. 6th St., Los Angeles 36
Arthur Paulsen• (27) ..........................................................................Box 486, Weaverville

FINANCE
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ....................................................623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul F. Balck ( 144) .....·--·····································-·····1 844 - 28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Alfred H. Nicoll (48 1) ........................................23370 Camino Hermoso, Los Altos Hills
James E. H ~mmond (568) .................................................... 154 Gr_amercy Dr:, San Mateo
Victor H ov.ard (780) ...................................... 211 Quadro Vecchio Dr.. Pacific Palisades
G. Douglas Thompson ( 134) .......... .............................................. P. 0 . Box 267, V acavllle

GRIEVANCES
Albert F. Ross (254) ··············································-················-···················Box 759, Redding
Albert C. W ollenberg (344) .. U. S. District Ct., 450 Golden Gate Ave .. San Francisco 2
William B. Neeley (713 ) ···-··················-······························· 1429 Virginia Ave .• Glendale
Folger Emerson (6 1) ................... ..... ..................................200 I Magellan Dr.. Oakland 11
Harold S. Morrison (450) ................ .............................. 14615 Magnolia Blvd ., Van Nuys
A. J. McCourtncy (437) ....................................................... 32 l Lago Lindo Dr., Palmdale
Lowell H. Sucherman (136) ................................... .300 M ontgomery St., San Francisco 4

CREDENTIALS
Thos. F. Mason (198) ................................................220 No. Glendale Ave., Glendale 6
Don E. Berry (568) ................................................................................ P. 0. Box 208, Lodi
Emil W. Trefts (38) ......................................... ......................... 126 Dake Ave .. Santa Cruz
Harry P. Lutticken ( 166 ) ................................................ 1611 - 7th Ave .. San Francisco 22
Wm. Rex Hoover (672) .................................................................... Box 934, Laguna Beach
Lyle C. H all (758) ................................................................ 352 W. Bennett #C, Glendora
Robert W. Reynolds (20) ........................................6401 Chetwood Way, Sacramento 22
*Emeritus

425

CHARTERS
Herbert A. Huebner (145 ). ...·-··························-···········610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 14
Robert A. Smith (426).·-··-················-············-···············----···················429 Center St., Taft
Phillip B. Stone (727) ................................................................ 1007 Bethany Rd., Burbank
Kenneth L. HernphIU (728) ............................................ 1360 Newport A ve., Long Beach 4
Wayne E . Burk (316) •.................................................................248 S. McCall Rd., Sanger
Cha rles Warren (57) ..................................................................933 Crest Dr .. Santa Rosa
Robert 0. West (26) .................................................................... P.O. Box 752. P lacerville
Martin Ortlieb (35) ........................................................................ 2889 Palm St .. San Diego
Prank B. Peebles (556) ........................................................31 Maywood Way, San Rafael
John L. Shaw (805) ............................................................8845 E. Callita St.. San Gabriel
Edgar R. Kent (575) .............................................................. P. 0. Box 44, Fall River Mills

BY-LAWS
Henry D. Oliphant (360) ..._..................................................... 2915 Florida St .. Oakland 2
Alden J. Fulkerson (35) ......................................... ...................... .3205 Poe St.. San Diego
Virl Bennehoff (I) ....................................................3701 Divisadero St., San F rancisco 23
R. Wayne Fi llpot ( 407) ..............................................................4784 Jackson Dr., La Mesa
Charles H. Grace (635) ........................................................... .4210 H ighland Pl., Riverside
Gordon H. Armstrong ( 25) ............................................9353 Greenback Lane, Orangevale
Emile W. Roggy ( 479) ................................................... .1505 Calaveras Ave., San Jose 26

CORRESPONDE NCE
Newcomb Condee (6 14) ...... Superior Court, D ept. 64, 111 N o. Hill St.. Los Angeles 12
Georg e W. Burc h, Jr. (650) ................................................417 S. Hill St., Los Angeles 13
John Wullschleger (260) ................................ . .................810 San Mateo Dr., Menlo Park
Maurice B. Ross (35) ................................................................3040 Udal St., San Dieqo 6
Ralph T. Merriam (272) ···-····-···················-······- -·············.1120 E. \Voodbury, Pasaaena
S. L. Channon (259) ......................................... .......................2361 Daventry Rd., Riverside
Edward G. Freeman (135 ) ..............................................340 Naples St., San Francisco 12

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
William Van Ornum (374) .-·-·································.748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco 7
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462) ........................................3939 Ortega St., San Francisco 22
Bernie J. Katz (120) .......................- ............................. 1864 -28th A ve .• San Francisco 22
PhJI Bovero (371) ................................................................ 2222 - 39th A ve., San Francisco
Perry Lawson (462) ............................................................ 1978 - 46th Ave., San Francisco
Edwin C. Mathisen (360) .............................................. 337 Douglas St., San Francisco 14
Emmett Bundy (554 ) ...................................................... 1762 - 40th Ave., Sao Francisco 22
Charles R. Shour ( 706 ) ......................................... .........2218 - 20th Ave., San F rancisco 16
Edward W. Quon (6731. .................................................750 Grnnt Ave .. $;in Francisco 8
Walter E. Sainsbury (525) ......................................... ...............636 Skyline Dr., D aly City
Frederick A. Wilson (356) ................................................................ 306 - 4th St., Sausalito

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

426

LOD GE FINA NCI NG
JIS-B S. Reno St .. Los Angeles 57
Mark A. Gre en (320) ..................... .......... .....................
............ 2316 Califo rnia St .. Redding
George W. Srurm (251) ........... ........... ....................
1000 M ills Building , San Pra ncisco 1
Ivan Crase (135) ......................................... ...................... .76 1 - 31th A ve.. San Francl ~co 21
..........
-.........
..........
...........
L.
(JH
r
Becke
S.
r
Arthu
.... ..... 14252 S<1 n Feliciano Dr., La Mirada
Richa rd L. Rt em er (778) ......... ..................... ....
.......... 13403 Cumpston St.. Van Nuvs
..........
...........
...........
..
.........
(529)
n
Susma
in
Benjam
Latham Squade Bldg .. O a kland 12
904
......
...........
...........
..........
..........
)
188
(
Sea
F.
Sidney
Sa n Pascu al St .. Los Angl'lcs 42
220
..
..........
...........
..........
...........
(588)
t
Mdvin H. Merrit
.......... .552 W. 20th St., Merced
...........
..........
...........
..........
.
...........
(99)
t
George C . Barret

NEC .ltOL OGY
20130 Mendelsohn Lane, Sara toga
Adaru B. Morten (346) ........... ........... .................. ..........
3 14 Sarato ga Ave ., Los Gatos
...........
..........
...........
...........
Raymond J. Fisher (292 ) ..........
Dayton Dr., LPmon Grove
2040
..........
..........
...........
...........
William E. Rife (736) ...........
e Ave .. San Francisco 17
Duboc
.731
........
...........
...........
Edgar M. Anderson ( 139) ...........
806 P iute St., Bakers field
..
..........
...........
..........
...........
...........
...
Jack D. Henslee (695) ..........

RITU AL
..............2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino
Donald G . Campbell (608) .................. ...................... .... ........... .. Route I. Box 682, Gr!dlev
Clare B. Campbell (230) ................... - ...................... ........... . 5260 "K" St .. Sacramento 19
Hu old N. Richards (20) ........... .................... . ........................2239 Eat0n Ave .. San C a rlo ~
Arthu r J. Kahn (462) ...............................................
.P. 0 . B())c 631. T uolum ne
. ...
W allace H. F iske (39 1) ............. ........... ... .... . .......
El Mirad or Dr., Los Angeles 8
.5251
...
...........
..........
...........
..........
(636)
r
Crigle
A.
Robert
400, U nion Bank Bldg., Orang e
Vv. Ben Sorrells (672) ............................... ........... .... S uite

MAS ONI C HIST ORY
1080 Chestn ut St., San Franc isco 9
Gerald S. Levin (136) .......... ..................... ........... ..........
. 1528 ldlewood Rd .. Glend ale 2
...........
...........
Kenne th H. Down s ( 646) ...............................
...... 1068 Sycamore Dr., Millbrae
P aul Cowgill ( 1) ........... ........... ..................... .....................
..... ......l916 Bidwell Way , Sacra mento
\.Valter E. Stoddard (40}............................... ..........
....6009 Kin gs Rd., Los Angel es 56
...........
...........
...........
...........
528)
(
n
anaha
M
L.
el
Micha
...................2777 Regal Ave., Redding
..........
...........
...........
...........
(2)
n
Glidde
V.
\
m
Willia
740- 37th Ave .. San Francisco 21
Leon 0 . Whits ell° (293 ) ........................ ............. ..........

PUB LIC SCH OOL S
...............7615 Green ly Dr .. O akland 5
W arren J. Blomseth (603 ), Chalrman.....................
................ 1364 Echo A ve., F resno
..........
.
Georg e E. Hiatt (247) .......... ................................
····· ··p · 0. Box 233. Paso Roble ~
·····-····
.
...........
.....
...........
......
...........
(286)
Vorst
Van
Earl
ercial Ave .. South S ;i n F rancis co
Hallet H . Meilicke ( 470) ...................... ..........732 Comm
r St.. Costa Mesa
··--················ ························ 389 -Flowl'
Joseph V. Antist a (708) .. ·-········..........
.......... ...5S07 13th Ave .. Sacramento
...........
...........
...........
(499)
s
Roger
C.
d
Richar
.......... ........... . P. 0 . Box 100. El Centro
Norbert P. Tester (384 ) .......... ................................
........... ....... 126-4 3rd St., Sacramento
...........
...........
...........
...........
..........
)
(173
r
Carl Winte
319 Puama mane St.. Honolulu 9682 1
.......
..........
...........
...........
...........
)
(371
Curtis N. Heen
...... 1332 El Centro Ave .. Napa
..........
...........
...........
...........
..........
(12)
d
Rolland P. Atwoo
Legion Lane, Los Angeles 39
3920
..
..........
.
.......
...........
...........
622)
(
Richar d H. Dutwiler
Camp bell Ave.. Alhambra
2224
.........
..........
...........
...........
...........
)
322
W illiam G. Yerge r (
Apt. 5, San Francisco 9
St.,
Larkin
1445
...........
...........
...........
Stanfo rd Fong (549) ...........
O ak Ave .. Northridge
White
1
922
........
...........
...........
...........
Franklin C. Potter (666 ) .......
• E meritus

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

427

SPE CIA L CO MM ITT EES
MAS ONI C EDU CAT ION

2000 V a n N ess Ave., San Francisco
Eugene S. H opp (260) ...................... ...................... .......9965 Wood ruff A ve. , T emple City.
..........
...........
David C. Lee (492 ) ..................... ...........
........ 2709 E. 220th St., Long Beach
Milton E . Ammann (600) ..........................................
................ 831 E . Ala mos Ave., Fresno
Edwar d L. Kella.o; (217 ) ...................... ......................
...........740 1 Elata Ave.., Yucca Valley
Louis L. Cunnin>iham (802) .......... .....................
............10972 Sa mpson Ave., Lynwo od
Ralph A. Herbold (600) ..............................................
.7 15 D arien W ay, San Franci sco 27
...........
Gordo n F. Black (635) ........... .......... ...........
..................... .......Courth ouse, Quinc y
Raym ond J. Berkline (60) .................... ......................

CON STIT UTI ON OBS ERV ANC E

....... 1226 So. Ross St., Santa Ana
Thom as W. Thurman (505 ) , Chilinnan. ......................
20120 Almed a St., Castro Valley
...........
...........
an
Chairm
Earl Patterson, Jr. (494) , V ice
.....2335 - 32nd St., San Diego 1
..........
...........
...........
...........
Edwar d W . Wred e, Jr. (56 1)
.5634 Haleo la St., Honolulu 16
...
..........
...........
...........
Charles L. H a pai (109) ....................
P. 0. Box 218, Kern City
...........
..........
...........
...........
Oran W . Palmer (581) .....................
Maria Lane, Camar illo
-··.100
··········
..
Carl E . Mumper ( 341 ) ···································-······ ····
435 Russ Bldg., San Franc isco 4
Samuel C. Shenk ( 1) ..... ........... ................................ .........
.........................................Wood leaf
John H. Masteller (50 ) ··········· ········-································
.....9 11 No. Van Ness Ave., Fresno
Clarence N . Johnson (465) ...........................................
r St., Covina
···············- ··········- ······-·-·-·276 E . Cente
Arthu r M. Powell (334) ·········- ···········
.......... .......... 1961 - 10th St., Reddin g
..........
..........
...........
..........
...........
(121)
Cole
E.
e
Claud
...................... 1934 W. Elm Pl., Anaheim
James V. Latham (750) ..................... ........ ......................
...- ......620 Sandalwood, El Centro
...........
Harry R. Sones (381 ) ..........................................
... 1602 W. Walnu t St., Stock ton 3
...........
...........
..........
(757)
on
Clarks
N.
s
Charle
.......... .8 10 S. Hoove r St.. Los Angeles
Edwa rd A. Underwood (636) ........... ......................
. ..9937 Longfellow Ave., Oakla nd
...........
...........
..........
...........
494)
(
rthy
McCa
L.
rd
Howa
925 McDo nald Ave.. Santa Rosa
...
...........
..........
...........
..........
...........
(57)
D<iw
Denm an C.
960 Forest Ave.. Pacific Grove
.......
...........
...........
...........
..........
(331)
n
Ellswo rth H. Burso
Vicente Blvd., Los Angeles 19
San
.5854
..
..........
..........
..........
...........
)
Alan B. Bodley (623
1112 H allada y St., Santa Ana
......
...........
..........
...........
...........
...........
Arthu r H. Reed (505)
M idwickhill Dr., Alham bra
2401
.........
...........
...........
..........
...........
g ck B. Craw ford (528 )
29 Mercu ry Ave., Tiburo n
..
...........
..........
...........
...........
..........
onald L. Ba tten (22 ) ...........
McCla ren Dr.. Carmi chael
1624
...........
.....
...........
...........
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) ..........
82-90 I Bliss Ave ., Indio
.......
..........
...........
..
...........
Rober t Hager (4 73) ..................... ...........
Dr., San Luis Obisp o
Albert
213
...
.
...........
.........
C. H erold G regory (209 ) ...... . .......

DE MOL AY

..................... .622 " H " St .. M arysville
Ra y S. Kimbell (22 ) .................... ..................... ...........
Robertson W ay, Sacram ento 18
li06
...
..........
Lester G. Bruno (499 ) ........... ......................
........ 743 Fairm ont Ave .• Glendale 3
...........
...........
...........
.........
)
(368
un
Rathb
E.
r
Home
.......... .........4533 E. Gettys burg. Fresno
Roy H. Gerar d (366) .............- ................................
................889 Regent St., San Jose
..........
...........
..........
...........
..........
(676)
edo
M
S.
d
Harol
n Rain Rd., L.W., Seal Beach
Golde
1483K
....
...........
...........
(315)
son
Ander
M.
Wend ell
........................- .......Blue Lake
..........
..........
...........
...
...........
..........
)
106
(
ude
Clyde Patena
...... 2087 - 33rd Ave., San Fra ncisco 16
Robert D. Lintne r ( 169) ................ .......................
....... 5484 Hewle tt Dr., San Diego
...........
...........
...........
....
...........
439)
(
n
Whale
Frank H.
, G riffith Statio n. Los Angeles 39
39667
Box
0.
P.
.......
..........
...........
(384)
Da rrell Dixon
.. 1437-3 Hunakal St .. Honolulu
...........
..........
...........
...........
...........
(801)
ok
ArthurJ. Panco
Occidental St., Bakersfield
2709
.....
..........
...........
...........
.....
..........
(224)
G arfiel G. La iblin
d A ve., Knolls. Richmond
Oxfor
2908
....
...........
...........
...........
...........
John L. W ixon ( 705)

COL UMB IA TEM PLE

............................. Box 603, Tuolumne
William D. Arche r (391) ........... ........................................................942 Park St.. Alameda
...........
...........
...........
...........
1)
49
(
s
Jurgen
Georg e A.
........... .143 W est Beverl y Pl.. Tracy
A. T. Kiersch (236) .....................................................................................Box 251, Altaville
..........
...........
...........
...........
..........
(76)
John A. Kirby
........... ........................Chinese Camp
Donald M. Stewa rt, Jr. (8 ) ........... ..................... ...........

428

PROCE EDI NGS OF THE

DIST INGU ISHE D GUE STS

GRAND LODGE OP C/\LIP ORN!A

429

CEMETERIES

... 38-H ·19th Ave., San Francisco 32
Jos!.'ph F. Garriott (630) .............................................
40 La gunitas Dr., San Francisco 32
.........
...........
...........
............
...........
(454)
d
Wielan
y
Ro
.....4630 Edgew ood Ave .. Oakland 2
............
...........
...........
...........
1494)
n
Sillima
P.
G!.'orge
450 Sutter St. , San Francisco 8
............
...........
............
_
......
...........
6)
!
(2
Jacobs
L.
e
Georg
1126 Clay St .. San Francisco 9
....
...........
............
...........
...........
...........
(470)
tng
D.
Arthur

P. 0 . Box 234, Carmel Valley
Ballard White, Jr. (139) ............................................ ..........1149 ·28th Ave., Sacramento 22
......
...........
............
...........
Harold C. Schroeder ( 3) ............
s 39
··--·····.4210 Edcnh urst Ave., Los Angele
Frederick H. Chapm an (622) ·----······-··--···-·
.............P. 0. Box I. Sutter Creek
Adrian Taylor ( 174 ) ............................................. .......................
............ ........................ Sonora
Marcel M. Baer ( 8) .........................................................

TAX ATIO N

OLD MAS ONIC HAL L IN LOS ANGELES

18th Ave., San Francisco 22
Alexan der L. Croce (35'4) _...................... ...........- .........1628.
P. 0. Box 817. Oaklan d '4
........
...........
............
............
............
...........
(3'49:
Robert R. York
Ave., San Francisco 21
26th
•
678
..
............
...........
............
...........
H)
1
W. Stanle y Davis (

COM MER CIAL ISM

Crestw ood Dr., Apt. 5, D aly City
V incent P. McMu rdo (454) .................................. .. 1H ...........
...965 E. Madison. El Cajoo
............
............
...........
Willar d A. Braasoh (296) ...........
Lincoln Ave., San Rafael
1330
......
...........
...........
...........
~ck L. Blaine ( 461) ........... ...........
7th St., Los Angeles 14
W.
210
........
...........
arvey Harkne ss (506) ···-·----····----.................
So. Spring St .. Los Angeles 13
A lbert R. Bennison (382) ........... ............ .......................-408

RET IREM ENT PLA N

......2231 S. Court, Palo Alto
L. Harold Anderson (346) ...................... ..................................
111 Sutter St.. San Francisco .of
.....
...........
...........
............
...........
(314)
uer
Bresla
F.
Alfred
...... Mills Bldg .. San Francisco
Paul F. Pfluege r (370) ............ .............................................. Flood Bldg., San Francisco 2
703
....
............
...........
............
...........
(375)
Halle~
~mes Leo
Marke t St., San Francisco 3
eginald M. Mils (61) ........... ......................................... 1059

SOJO URN ERS

255 La Paloma, San CJ<mien te
David H . Blakelock (671) ....................................................
Palisades Rd .. San D iego 16
:4110
........
...........
............
...........
...........
(632)
n
Ben T. Salmo
Hearst Av!.' ., Berkeley 9
1915
.......
...........
............
......
..........
...........
)
1
John Richmond (54
E. Andrews, Fresno
2822
......
............
...........
...........
...........
...........
(530)
s
Wallac!.' F. Power
St.. K :iilua. Hawaii
ao
Makaw
190
..........
...........
............
...........
(801)
Joseph P. D ennehy
r Ave., Garden a
Caltimi
So.
13912
.........
............
...........
...........
...........
J;im!.'s C. Whiti- (647)
ay, Alameda
Broadw
909
.....
............
...........
............
............
............
Alvin A. Horwe ge ('491)
Santa R~
Way,
Karen
657
..
...........
............
...........
...........
James L. Durnford (57) ...........
St .. Chico
8th
E.
1652
...
...........
...........
............
...........
...........
Willia m F. Jewett ( 111) ...........
Salinas
Dr.,
Juan
San
137
.....
...........
...........
...........
...........
W . George Mossie r (204) ...........
Box 3507, Alliance Rd .. Arcata
George Cornwell ( 106) ................................. .......................H ayvenhurst St.. Granad a Hills
Merrill E. Balser (790) ............................................ 11226.........526 Covcna Ave .. Modesto
Clyde Pricke tt (206) ........... ................................... ...........
........3004 Corn('II St.. Bakersfield
Theron J. Oaks ( 688) ...................... .................................. 875 Rongcot, San Luis Obispo
E vPri-tt L. Coyle ( 530) ........... .. ............................................. E. Santa Ynez, San Gabriel
8237
Glen E. Irwin (685) ................................... .......................
1447 Chestn ut S t .. S an Francisco 23
Julian H. L. Wolfs ohn (531) ......................................So.
Barrington Ave .. Los Angeles 66
George W . Pike (307) ..................................3181-F 39 N. Highla nd Ave. , Hollyw ood 38
11
......
...........
............
...........
)
(566
D on H. LaGra nge
..... Box 36518. Los Angeles 36
George H. Himes (602) .................................. .......................
S . Winth rope St.. Orang e
850
......
...........
............
...........
............
Robert A. M illhouse (6'4 I)
Brand St.. San Fernan do
N.
806
...
............
............
............
J. Kenneth Savage (313) ...........
P. 0. Box 222, Herlong
..........
............
............
...........
Joseph S. Roberts (232) .......................

MUS IC
955 Portol a Dr., San Fraods co 27
Harold Mueller (I) ··············----··········--·- -··············--·-·····---·117
5 Johnson St .. Menlo Park
·---·--··
·-··--···-···-····
-·--··-·
···-··-··
(I)
r
Austin Mo~he
.... 19 C edar Ave., Long Beach 2
Charle s J. Payne (5'40) .........................................- ............

INSU RAN CE

omery St., San Francisco '4
T. James Carlile (215) ................................................1 Moi:itg nia St., San Francisco i
Califor
1
·······i0
······-···---··--·
-·········
....
(i89)
Allerton B. Ebert

Rexfor d Dr.. Los Angeles 35
Benjamin M. Weiss ('42) ....................... ............ ..... 1'491 So.
Hope St.. Los Angeles 17
So.
23
··········-6
····--·····
frank H arwell, Jr. (52S) ............ .. ----········
Bldg., Los Angeles 17
Oil
Mobil
700
...
_
...
............
...........
...........
Leo E. Anderson (355)

BOA RD OF LIBR ARY COM MISS IONE RS
....... 1155 Oxford St., Berkeley 7
David R. Lane (638) .........................................................
gham Way, San Francisco 27
Buckin
5
----···33
·---..
····--··-··
..
--······
(435)W illiam H. Scott
Manila Ave., Oakland 18
.5278
.........
............
...........
............
...........
(624)
orth
Russell G. W
rk Hills Road, Berkeley
Pa
1036
...
...........
...........
............
...........
(573)
er
Drucqu
Merlin W.
re Rd., Kensin gton
Ardmo
10
..........
...........
............
............
..
.........
(571)
ctz
Joseph A. Pivern
n St., Berkeley 7
Neilso
.546
............
...........
...........
............
...........
)
(541
C. John Bellma n, Jr.
Franci sco 16
San
Ave.,
7th
1925-1
......
...........
............
...........
)
(169
Haig D. Soghomonian
Francisco 2
San
Ave.,
Ness
Van
25
..........
...........
...........
Dwigh t N. Deane (464) ............

MAS ONIC INFO RMA TION
......6353 'vVood Dr .. Oaklan d
Willia m H. Adams (363) ........................................................
E. Founta in Way, Fresno 4
~44
1
.........
...........
...........
...........
............
Roger E. Butler (247)
Marsha ll W H'::' Sacram ento
2:>48
.
............
...........
...........
...........
............
Hamilton Hintz ( 3)
. Box 5091. onolulu 9681 4
0
P.
............
...........
...........
............
1)
(2
Norman Robert Davis
..... P. 0 . Box 89, Colusa
...........
...........
............
............
...........
Wilme r G. Brill (240 ) ............
Vallejo St., Santa Rosa
10i6
..........
...........
............
Glendall W. McDer mott (57) ·- ·······-··--

CO NST ITU TIO NAL BOA RDS
END OWM ENT BOA RD
Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27
John M. Gordon (202 ) .............- .................................. .3416
Ninita Parkw ay, Pasadena
.417
......
...........
...........
...........
............
(599)
l<errnit A. Jacobson
... 1045 East. Reddin g
...........
...........
...........
...........
............
...........
W illiam H. Schooler (254)
N orth Holl\,wood
tsuma,
Sa
1
620
......
............
............
...........
J. Glen Gladso n (542) ...........
Ave., Mill alley
t
Summi
5
-·······.52
····-··--·Kent Seymour (356) ······----- ·······-··············--·..
.1536 Raegan Ave., Santa Rosa
....
·····
···········
··········-····-····
·····-·····
(57)
l
Minett
F.
s
Charle
4 Shasta Road, Berkeley
······-·· ··-············ .. ····--····--·····295
Charles Ratkov ich (268) ----··--..... 1536 Dale S t.. San D ier.o 2
Frank R. Porath (442) ........... ..............................................
6 13 E. Camile St., Santa Ana
Herschel E. Griffin (505) ................................... ............ ....... ...685 Magnolia, Bakersfield
George C. P oloynis (773) .........................................................
..2211 Las Rosas Lane, Santa Barbar a
Ralph C. Hine (242) ....................... ............ ......................
.5449 E. Marad a Lane, Stockto n
Norma n W . Shaw, Jr. ( 19) ......................................926 Glenha
ven Dr., Pacific Palis;ides
Everet t Todd (527) ..............................................
. 1956 Webst er St., Oakland 12
Carroll A. Trefts (403) .........................................................
..................... 1621 N . Shaffer. Orang e
W .W. Reybu rn (586) ....................... ............ ............
........... .. P. 0. Box 2, Orland
Willia m M. Conner ( i 11 ) ........... .............................................. ouse, South San Francisco
Courth
Cha rles Becker (344) ............ ........... .................................
960 Castec Dr., S acr<ime nto 25
James K. \.Vilson (789) ....................... ....................... ..........
21 22 East Austin \ Vay. Fresno
.......
............
...........
...........
...........
(.366)
Allred
d
Edwar
M.
645 East Bixby Rd., Long Bea ch
George P. Calderwood (327) ............................................ ......P. 0. Box 5248. Compt on
............
............
...........
...........
............
(273)
George Q . Evans

430

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENT

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Paul A. PHueger (370) --·······································-······-···MIU. Bldg., San Francisco 4
Jack F. Bowley (370) .....- .......................................511 Buena Viata Ave .. Redwood City
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ----···-···---·····---623 S. Hope St.. Los Angeles 17
Edgar V. Stewart. Jr. (529) ....................................3600 Wilshire Blvd.• Los Angeles 5
John M. Gordon (202) ..................................................3+% Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27

BOARD OF CONTROL
Arthur Dvorln (639)-----···-···········-········--1030 S. Cochran Ave., Los Angeles 19
Irving Magnes (225)--····
--·--···256 LaSalle Ave., Piedmont 10
John Swan (667) .......·-·-··-····-·······-········-·-·············2430 Orange Ave., La Crescenta
Norman E. Hale (57.f) ___....___________________.6012 Lomond Dr.. San Diego 20
Lester S. McElwain (403)--··········-········-·--·······-··········1419 Broadway, Oakland 12

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Phil N. Myers (430) .......·-····-···'·-················:....20 Point Lobos Ave., San Francisco 21
Alfred F. Breslauer (344)---··----··-···-······-····-··-·······111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (202) •..................... &tOf Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048

CODE COMMISSION
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) ·-··-·····-·····-·-·····--·····80 Woodland Way, Piedmont JI
Edward T. Koford (57) ...- ......................Emplre Bldg., 217 Exchange Ave., Santa Rosa
David P. Russell (396) ...........•................................................2230 San Jose Ave., Alameda
Everett Houser (504) .......................................................... 260 Atlantic Ave .. Long Beach
Leonard S. Lurie (216)--·--··-····--············-·············495 - 32nd Ave., San Francisco 21

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Term
Expires
1967-Edgar V. Stewart, President (529) .. 3600 Wilshire Blvd., Rm. 860, Los Angeles 5
1967-L. Harold Anderson, Vice President (346) ......................2231 S. Court, Palo Alto
1966-Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ........................................ 111 Sutter St.. San Francisco 4
Myron E. Smith (394) ......................................461 S. Boylston St.. Los Angeles 17
Laurence E. Dayton (61) ..............................................5862 Moraga Ave., Oakland
John F. Porter (677) ......................................4639 Tremont Lane, Corona del Mar
1965-James Leo Halley (375) ......................- ..............703 Flood Bldg .. San Francisco 2
1966-Edward J. Blickfeldt (535) ..........................................590 Hargrave St.. Inglewood
1965-Herbert H. Cooper (614) ................................ 1954 Glendon Ave .. Los Angeles 25

MASONIC HOME FOR THE AGED
Union Cl.ty, California
Telephone 471-3434
Gail H. David, Superintendent

MASONIC HOME FOR CHILDREN
20336 East Badillo St.
Covina, California
Telephone 331-0541
Robert M. Henry, Superintendent

431

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Term
Expires
1965-Ralph H. Head, Pres. (352) ........P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles
1967-Samuel I. Jacobs (216), Vice-Pres .......................946 Mills Bldg .. San Francisco 4
1967-Phil N. Myers (430) ..·-···-····-·--······--·20 Point Lobos Ave., San Francisco 21
Myron E. Smith (394) ..............-·····-···-·-··-461 S. Boylston St., Los Angeles 17
Laurence E. Dayton (61) ............................................5862 Moraga Ave .. Oakland
John F. Porter (677)......................................4639 Tremont Lane, Corona del Mar
1966-'r. Galt Atwood (454) ..............................................450 Sutter St.. San Francisco 8
1966-Chester R. MacPhee (455) ........................69 Grand View Ave., San Francisco 14
1965-Lyle E. Patton (22)·-·······-··-········-··--49 Grand View Ave .• San Francisco 14

DIRECTORS

MASONIC

CLUBHOUSES

Berkeley
C. M. Davis, Pres. (541) ......................................................900 San Benito Rd., Berkeley 7
Willis H. Gillette, Vice Pres. (560) ..................24 Sequoyah View Court, Oakland 94605
Donald P. Hewlett, Treas. (403)--.....................- ..•............23 Cathy Lane, Oakland 19
Paul S. Boren, Secty. (551) ........................................................ 1947 Tiffin Rd .. Oakland 2
William T. Friborg, Asst. Secty. (568) .......................... 1036 Bayview Ave., Oakland 10
Wallace E. York (403) ........................................................5109 Proctor Ave., Oakland 18
J. Walter Proctor (349) ...................................................... 166 Athol Ave .. Oakland 94606
Carlisle D. Nielsen (541) ............................................ 1834 Trestle Glen Rd .. Piedmont 11
Russell C. Horstmann ( 336) ..........................................................560 - 57th St., Oakland 9
W. H. Nutting, Jr. (188) ..............................................5616 Estates Drive, Oakland 94611
E. A. Rienke (541) ..........................................................................780 San Luis, Berkeley 7
Elton L. Turner (337) ................................................................243 Pomona Ave .. Crockett
Alfred E. Hopkins (349) ................................................1002 Ashmount Ave., Oakland 10
Edward H. Redford (481) ..................................._.16 Brentwood Place, Oakland 94602
Hillard M. Reeves (347) ....•.-.•·····-··········-··---··-········-·2433 Downer Ave., Richmond

Berkeley Clubhouse
2590 Bancroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Janalce Kohl. Resident Hostess
Mrs. Mary Kierulff, Social Hostess

Los Angeles
S. Roy Howell, Pres. (662) ...............................- .......326 N. Croft Ave .. Los Angeles 48
Bates Mason, Vice-Pres. (373) ........................3227 Castle Heights Ave .. Los Angeles 34
C. Earl Crane, Secty-Treas. (528) •..... ·--···--·····--····427 N. Palm Dr., Beverly Hills
Paul R. Nichols (662).................................................- .........743 Glenwood Rd .. Glendale 2
Frank H. Reinsch (677) ...·-······-············-·····-···············1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Clyde C. Shoemaker (566) ................................................ 117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
A. Curtis Smith (618) ..................................................._ ...2r'l N. Elm D1., Beverly Hills
Elvin C. Drake (677) .........- .....................................-1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) ................................................4155 Greenbrier Rd .• Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327) ........................_...................... 1505 Armando Dr., Long Beach 7
George E. Hall (528) ..---·-···-·-·······---····•··--416 N. Berford Dr.. Beverly Hills
Frank Jenkins (528) .......·-···--··--·-······-·-··-···-·---·····.242 S. Peck Dr.. Beverly Hills
George Kussman (506) ....--···-·······-·-·-······-···608~ N. Beachwood Dr., Los Angeles 4
Thomas Carroll (373) .............•.·--···--···-··--·~30 S. Barry Ave., Los Angeles 66
Herbert H. Cooper (614) .. -··--·----~-·-··-··-···--1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25

Los Angeles Clubhouse
10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles 24
Mrs. Blanche Deaton, Director of Activities

432

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REGISTRAT ION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of lod~t

No. of lodge

R eprtsenntiveo

Miltagt All.,_d

CaliforniC\ ............................No. I.. .. Ewart L. MNica, Senior Warden
Kenneth L. C. Dorking, Junior W arden
Harold Mueller, Gra nd Organist
Edward C. Lo hme yer. P.M. and Inspector
Virl Bennehoff, Past Master
Bruce Q . Engle. Past Master
James H urst. Past Master
D. Ewing Ma rsh, P ast Master
James F. M cKay, Jr., Past Master
Duncan A. McLeod, Past Master
Austin Mosher. Past Master
Horace W. Orear, Jr., Past Master
Charles C. T rowbridge. Jr .. Past M aster
Western Star ...................... No. 2.... Kcndal L. Dittus, Senior Warden................. .
Charles E. Hall, Past M aste r
Tehama ................................ No. 3 .... R obert 0. Stribling, M uster ......................... .
Leroy L. Ervin. Senior \Varden
Thomas J. \ Vardlaw, Junior \.Varden
Benicia ................................No, 5.... Vv'ilbur F. Anderson, Master ......................... .
James M. Neel, Senior Warden
Orval F. C arpenter, P.M. and Inspector ......
Svend 0 . K. Sorensen, Past Master
Tuolumne ·····------················N o. 8.... John D. Richards, Senior Warden ..................
Reuben V . Porter. Past Master
Dona ld M . Stewart, Jr., Past Master
Corinthian ..........................No. 9.... lohn D. Borgstrom, Master ........................... .
H. Eugene Covert, Senior Warden
Wallace L. Parmeter, Junio r Warden
San Jose ............................No. 10.... Leo B. Mark, Master....................................... .
Robert L. \Vinq. Senior Warden
Joseph S. Green ley. Past M aster
Yount ................................No. 12.... Howard W. Cliff. Master ......... .................... .
J. C arl Schneider. Senior Warden
Karl D . Kinney, Junior Warden
Rolland P. Atwood, Past Master
Cornelius Kernan. Past M aster
Nevada ..............................No. 13.... Eric 0. Engstrom, Master ............................. .
W. L. T ambly n, Past M aster
Temple .............................. No. 14....Cha rles E. M aib, Master............................... .
Johnnit- L. Bi11gs. Senior Warden
Eureka .............................. No. 16....

l'lalll• of Lodge

31.22
12.01

5.01
4.31
18.34
16.80
7.00

6.58

20.72

6.30

~~eC~.J~~s'!:n~dJ:;t~~-~-~~-e~·-····················· 16.80

Clifford H . Wiegel. Senior \Varden
\ Villiam E. Marshall. P .M. and Inspector ....
Bernard L. Haines. Past Master
La Parfaitc Union............No. 17.... Andrc L. Armand, P .M . and Inspector
Raymond Malfanti, Past Master
James F. S mith. Past Master
Mounta in Shade .............. No. 18.... Not Represented
San Joaquin ...................... No. 19 .... Ralph L. Snyder. S enior \ Varden................. .
Walter S. Orr. Junior W <irdcn
Norman W. Shaw, Jr.. Past Master
George E. Woodruff, Past Master
Washington ......................No. 20.... John J. Bastian, Master....................................
Roy V. Anderson, Senior \ Varden
Robert \Iv. R eynolds, Junior Warden
Harold N . Richards, Assistant Grand
Lecturer ........................................................

16.80

10.92

12.04

12.04

N o. of Lodge

Represcntativea

433
Mileage Allowed

Da niel M. Cameron, Past Master
Dwight J. M orrow, Past Master
Harold I. Scholefield. Past M aster
Jack D . Shrader, Past M aster
Robert L. Zehrbach, Past M aster
tiawaiian ..........................No. 21 ....~~~;r K~ll~es!~~:\ta~~~ter..................... . 338.19
Fred erick Bo lte. P.M. and Inspector .............. 338.19
Limin Kung. Past Master
Occidental ........................ No. 22 . .. Donald Lewis Batten, Master
Eric Hay Shekury. Senior W;i rden
O rv ille George Voight, Ju nior Warden
R;iy S. Kimbell. Past Master
Lyle E. Patton, Past M aster
Clarence G. Rosenstock, Past M <1ster
Robert Arthur Wertsch, Past Muster
Madison ........................... N o. 23. .. Leo J. Todd , MastC'r ........................... .
20.02
Arlie 0 . Hansen, Senior Warden
Herbert L. Rhod ehamel, Junior \Varden
E dward Farley, P.M. and Inspector .............. 20.02
Frederick B. Sahl. Past Master
Mariposa ...... ...................No. 2-t ... Alva R. Porter. Maste r....................... .
23. 10
Daniel Kleiman, P.M. and Inspector............. . 23. 10
James P. McElligott, Past Master
Geor11etown ...................... No. 25 .... Arthur E. Lampe, Master................ ........... .. 19.32
Gordon H. Armstrong. Senior \Va rden....... . 15.12
John E . Walke r, Past Master
El Dorado ........................No. 26.... Grant P . M cElroy, Master ........................... .. 18.1 .~
Wallace M. Ripley. Jr .. Senior Warden
Donald P. Dassonville, Junior W a rd<:>n
Jacob A. Feth, P.M. and Inspector........ .
18:18
Trinity .............................. No. 27 .... Not Represented
Golden Gate ...................... No. 30.... Fred E. Clauhscn, Master
Harry K. Widup. P.M. and Inspector
Lee L. Aslanian, Past Master
Raymond H. Bradley. Past Master
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
Gold Hill .......................... No. 32 ....Kenneth G. Avery. Master .............
15.96
Ophir ................................ No. 33 ....Robcrt W. Boles .......................... . ................. 20.58
San Diego ........................N o. 35.... Glenn K. Smith. Master.................................. 73.08
Roy A. Williams, Senior Warden
Gordon E . Pledger, Junior Warden
Joe L. Shell, Past Grand M;istcr ........ ... ....... 73.08
Simon F. Bolger, P.M. and Inspector ........... . 73.08
Ald en J. F ulkerson. P ast M aster. ................... 73.08
Robert B. James. Past Master
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master .......................... . 73. 0~
Herman H . Peterson. Past Master
Fred J. H . Rickon, Past Master
Maurice B. Ross. P ast M aster......... .
73.08
H oward ..............................No. 37.... C arl A. Franson, Senior \.Varden................ 44.38
George S. Ward. P.M. and Inspector ........... 44.38
S nnta Cruz ........................ No. 38.... Richard W . McHugh, Master ....................... . 10.08
R. Gordon Politte, Junior \ Varden
Roy L. M ayfield. Past Master
Albert J. Thorp, Past Master
E mil W. Trr fts, Past Master ......... .
10.0~
Sacramento ...................... No. i O.... Parise Voudouris, Master.................... ......... 12.0-1
Clifford E. Clause, S enior Warden
W ilbur 0. Wright. Junior Warden
A. Boyd Collier, P.M. and Inspector .... ...... 12.04

434
Name of Lod1re

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Rcprc.enta tiv<e

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA
Milu11e llll<>we.i

Martinez ··········-----·-······..No. i I ....Donald R. Oltman. Master.............................. 4 76
Delbert Nelson, Senior Warden
·
Kay W. Knowles. Junior Warden
Robert L. E vans, Past Master
Howard D . Lyford, Past Master
\Vakefield Taylor, Past Master.. ..................
4.76
Ernest C. W ebb, Past Master
Los Angeles ......................No. 42 .... Bcnjamin M. Weiss, Master.......................... 56.42
Morris C. Guss, Senior Warden
Harold Greenspan. Junior Warden
Matthew M. Codon, Past Master......
56.42
Edward A. Fromsky, Past Master
Philip L. Goldstein, Past Master
Morton Schwartzman, Past Master
Hiram ................................No. 43....

{)!~~f P. ~i~~~rRf;~!~-~~s.~~.~................... 18.20

Jack F. Mainzer, Senior Warden
Mount Moriah ..................No. 44.... Stanley 0. Morth . Master
Jadin C. Ho ffmann, Senior Warden
Joe W . Bradshaw, Junior Warden
Gunter Hoffmann, Past Master
Harry S. Swierstra, Past Master
Gilbert M. Travis, Past Master
Gerald H. Wicrda, Past Master
Crescent ............................No. 45.... Alvah Jay Clark, Senior Warden..... .... .......
Charles Thuncn, Past Master
Texas ........................... _...No. 46 .... Axcl F. Carlsen, Master....................
Forbestown ...................... No. 50.... George W. Fernandez, Senior \.Varden.. ......
lllinoistown ......................No. 51.. .. Patrick H. Buchanan. Master........................
Thomas Stl.'el, Past Master
Suisun ................................No. 55.... Lo uis M. Frawley. Senior Warden................
Volca no ............................No. 56.... Edmund R. Santirlo. Elected Representative
Benjamin F. Berry, Past Master
Santa Rosa ........................No. 57.... Condol E. Hoke. Master....................
Julian W . Riehl, Senior Warden
Henry P. Adams. Junior Warden
Denman C. Daw, Past Master
James Durnford, Past Master
Raymond C. F ay, Past MastE'r
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
Charles F. Minctti. Past Master
Charles W arren, Past Master.............
Bert C. \Vhiteley, Past Master
Union ................................No. 58.... William A . Revitt. Master............. . ..........
Leighton D . Armstrong , P.M.
). P. Bascom, Pa st Master
G ravel Range ....................No. 59 .... Lcland K. Pauly, Elected Representative .....
Plumas .............................. No. 60.... Roy L. Payne, Master........................... ....
Orval A. Myers, Past Master
Live Oak .......................... No. 61.... Leabert C. Hawkinson, Master
Ludolf T . Both, Junior Warden
Laurence E. Day ton, Junior Grand \Varden
H erbert T. Bro nsdon, Past Master
Folger Emerson, Past Master
Regina ld M . Mills, Past Master
Cla rence A. Severin, Past Master
Natoma ..............................No. 61 ... Charles D. Pearce, Master... ......... . ..
Iverson Dowd. Senior Warden
Thomas E. Humphrey. Junior W arden
Richard A. Blechschmidt, Grand Pursui vant
Raymond C. Hall, Past Master

51.66

12.60
23.80
19.<>4
6.72
20.02
7.56

7.56

12.04
24.22
31.36

15.40
12.04

}'lalDC O f Lod (C

No • of Lodcc

Rcprt.. ntati•ea

435
Milc a~c Allow.:d

,a.mador ....................- ........No. 65.... Rudolph E. Johnson, Senior W arden............ 18.34
Alfred A. Penrose, P.M. and Inspector.. ........ 18.34
Morning Star ....................No. 68.... Kenneth B. Olson, Master............................. . 10.92
Carl M. Hasty, Senior Warden
Alvin V . Abbott, Past Master
Enterprise ..........................No. 70.... Mark E . Broom~ . Master ................. :........... . 16.52
Bear Mountain ..................No. 76.... John A . Ki rby, Elected Represcn:r1ve ....... . 19.60
Calaveras ..........................No. 78 .... Bryant 8 . Hathaway, Junior War en. .......... . 17.50
V incent C. Tiscornia. Past M aster
Humboldt ..........................No. 79.... Mervin R. Moc, Senior Warden.................... 39.76
Helge A . Palmrose. Past Master
Aaron Sloma, Past Master
Ione ·----...........................No. 80 .... Everett E. Crain, Master................................ 17.08
J. W esley Sibole, Past Master
11.76
Yolo ..................................No. 8 1. ... Louis F . LaFayette, Master ...................
H oward L. Latimer, Senior Warden
Martin D. Brown, Junior \Varden
26.04
Vesper ................................ No. 84 .... Delbert G. Ha rmon, Master.............. .
C. G. Mathews. Past Master
4.34
Naval ................................No. 87....John O lson, Master ....................... .. ..
Aaro n L. Parfet. Senior Warden
Kenneth J. Wales. Junior W arden
Joseph Anderson. Past Master
Edward L. Baehr. Past Master
Melvin C. Baker, Past Master
Joseph Brouss, Past Master
Leo B. Chambers. Past Master
John K. Cothran, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick G raff. Past M aster
Orrin R. Hewitt. Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past M aster
Harry E. N e'>'>"comb. Past Master
Bertrand Wichels, Past Master
Rose 's Bar ..............".......... No. 89....Gilhert W. Bell . Master.................................. 19.46
Nick G . Kerhoulas, Senior Warden
Harry E . Custis. Junior Warden
T homas K. Scogland, Past Master
N orth Star ........................No. 91.. .. Donald E . Purdy, S enior Warden................ 46.48
St. Helena ..........................No. 93.... Harold J. Rutherford, WMasdter........................
9.24
Ralph B. Duer, Senior
ar en
Rudolph M. Rossi, Past Master
Henry Clay ........- ............No. 95 .... Seneca L. Burr. Senior Warden.................... 18.20
Hornitos ............................No. 98.... Edward Louis Bacon, Senior Warden.......... 28.42
Wilson E. Lathrop, P.M. and Inspector........ 17.92
Joe Shclhy Poe, Past Master
Yosemite ............................No. 99 ....C lyde J. Loring, Jr .. Senior W arden.............. 17.92
George C. Barrett, Junior W arden
August H . Rolfes, Past Master
Andrew R. Schottky, Past M aster
Clay ................................ No. 101....Gilbert V. Griggs, Master ....W
.........d................. 20.86
Walter A. E. Meyer, Senio r
a r en
R. Sterling Boynton, Past M aster
T homas J. Edwards, Past M aster
H . W. Haberkorn. Past Master
20.72
Oroville ..........................N o. 103.... Don K. Baldwin. Master.. ....... ...........
Will B. M attly, Senior Warden
L. Howard Casagrande , P.M. and Inspector 20.72
Sewall K. Parker, Past Master

436
N a me of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreoentativ<1

Mileo11e AUo,...d

Lexington ........................ No. 104.... Jack L. Craven, Senior Wardeu....................
Raymond C. Kretzer, Junior Warden
Walter W. Frank, Past Master
T om R. Richardson, Past Master
Arcata ..............................No. 106.... Richard Laustalot, Senior Warden ................
Sidney A. Webster, P .M. and Inspector......
Tom Tobe Morgan, Past Master
James Edwin Morton, Jr., Past Master
Pajaro ..............................No. 110.... Howard G . Hodason, Master....................... .
Clyde G. Brown, junio r Warden
Harold F . Trafton, P.M. and Inspector....... .
Chico .............................. No. 111.... James B. Smith, Master ................................ ..
William J. Caven, Senior Warden.............. ..
James H. Roberts. Junior Warden
Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master ....
Howard 0. Barry, Past M aster
Robert Bell-Booth, Past Master
William C. Brouillard, Past Master
Homer M. Byrne, Past Master
Irving A. Cleek, Past Master
William M. Conner, Past Master
Henry Drobny, Past Master
Roy G . Estes, Past Master
Plez H . Guynn. Past Master
H arry H. H ume, Past M aster
Fred C. Irvine, Past Master
W illiam F. Jewett, Past Master
L. Hapgood Lobdell, Past Master
Lloyd D. Mcintyre. P ast Master
L. C. McRae, Past M aste"r
Darrel \V. Phillips. Past Master
0 . W. Ramstead, Past Master
Morell M. Reynolds, P ast Master
Eric A . Tonning sen, Past Master
John Edward Wahl, Past M aster
Summit ............................No. 112.... John D. Browning, Senior Warden ............... .
Eden ................................No. 113.... Myron E. Temple, M aster
Henry H. Bloomfield, Junior W tirden
Elmer E. Ross, P.M. and Inspector
Concord ..........................No. 117 .... H ugh Millar, Master. .......................................
Paul C. Miller, Senior Warden
Thomas K. Capel, Junior Warden
Sam I. Bonn, P.M. and Inspector................... .
Martin C. Davis, Past M aster
Fidelity ............................No. 120 .... Maurice A. H arband, Master
Allen I. Stoll, Senior Warden
Louis I. Goldkind, Junior Ward.:-n
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Isadore Betz, Past Master
Herbert W. Cahn, Past Master
Albert Farber, Past Master
Bennett Farber, Past Master
Reuben E. Gilbert, Past M aster
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Robert A. Klinger, Past Master
Mark H. Nusbaum, Past Master
Leo J. Simon, Past Master
Cyril Louis Weeks. Past Master

437

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

58.21

10.88
10.88

12.60
12.60
22.68
22.10
22.68

Nome of Lodge

No. of Lodge

x:~ifi~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:

11.98

12.01

12.04

Reprc1entativc1

M ileage Allowed

Alamo ..............................No. 122 .... Daniel P. Halstead, Jr., Master ...... .............. .
Paul Floyd, Senior Warden
Charles E. Miller, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Hinds, P .M. and Inspector........... .
John H. Demartini, Past Master
Anthony J. P ucell, Past Master
Sotoyome ........................No. 123.... Robert C. Jensen, Master................................
Douglas V . Badger, Senior Warden
Gilbert D . Pettit, Jun ior Warden
Table Mountain ..............No. 124.. .George H. Witt. Senior Warden ................. .
Basil R. Gillett. Past Master
Osmer 0. Malian. Past Master
La Fayette ......................No. 126 .... Wallace W . Winkler, M<1ster .. . .
James Wong , Senior W arden
Elmer B. Garrison, Past Master
Ralph M. Hilton, P ast Master
Clarence J. MacKenzie, Past Master
Hermann ..........................No. 127 .... Friedrich Guerr, M aster
Oscar P. Bachma nn, Past Master
John Behrens, Past Master
William K. Haag , Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes. Past Master
Michael Schredl, Past Master
W ilhelm Schumacher, Past M aster
V isalia ............................No. 128 ... Howard C. Da vis, Master............................. .
Erwin S. King, Senior Warden
Lloyd R. Trout. Junior Warden
James B. Lawson, P .M. and Inspector......... .
Nicolaus .......................... No. 129.... Elwyn D. McCllela nd. Senior Warden ... .. .
Woodbridge .................... No. 13 L .. Not Represented
Sincerity .......................... No. 132.... Ha rry Petzwal. Elected Re"present;itive....... .
Edward L. Spellmeyer, P.M. and Inspector ..
Vacaville ........................No. 134 .... James J. Hartle y, Jr., P .M. and Inspector ......
135.... 0. R. Shelley, Elected Representative......... .
136.... Louis H. Sable. M aster
Herman W. Ross, Senior Wa rden
Lowell H. Sucherman, Junior Warden
Gerald Levin, Past Master
Samuel C. Levin, Past Master
Jerome L. Schiller, Past Master
Crockett ..........................No. 139.... Walter J. Harlow. Jr ., Master
Edgar M. Anderson . Senior Warden
Kenneth A. Howard , Junior Warden
William A. H . Fleischer. Past Master
Gordon Jensen, Past Master
Harvey E. McCarthy, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Ballard S. White, Jr., Past M aster
C urtis ....................- ........No. 140.... Not Represented
Grafton ·············---····--···--No. 141.... Harvey Brown, Master................................ ..
LeRoy McCalister, Senior Warden
Franklin ..........................No. 143 .... Ray E . Burdg. P .M. a nd Inspector............... .
Oriental ..........................No. 114.... Fred Raymond \Vinn, M aster
Philip G. Fairlie, Junio r Warden
Paul F . Balck. Past Master
Milton J. Burgkart, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Charles Todd H ecker, Past Master

3.50
3.50
9 .80

23.10
7.70

31.36
31.36
17.22
31.64
31.64
7.56
13.02

12.88
12.01

438

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE
N•m• o( Lod~

No me of Lod1e

No. of Lod11c

Repruen,.t ivc.

Ian A. Russell, Past Master
Volney Stamps, Past Master
Maynard R. Watson. Past Master
.................. .
7.28
Vitruvius ... -------------··-··-No. 145....Robert W. Price, Master
Charles Kawa, Senior Warden
__ ....... 16.38
Abell ------------·---------·----···No. 146.... Austin D. Hall, Master.. ....................
Billy Joe Brwnback, Senior \Varden
Albert E. Thirkill, P.M. and Inspector.......... 16.38
Elmer M. Hopper, Past Master
___ 37.24
Eel River ........................No. 147....0rvillc A. Smith, Master................ .............
Gerald E. Grunert, Senior W ardcn
......................... 37.80
Lassen -·-···---······-··..---·----·No . 149.... Marion M. Jenkins, Master...and
Inspector.. 37.80
Elmer G. Van Tassell, P.M.
..... 24.08
Molino ............................No. 150.... Jamcs Wade, Master... ................................
Raymond Hamilton , Senior \Varden
Lloyd A. Countrym an, P.M. and Inspector.. 24.78
Gerald Bettman, Past Master
Warren T. Stannard . Past Master
............... _____ __ 11.34
Woodlan d ......................No. 156.... Myron H . Heinem;i n, MasterInspector
.......___ 11.34
Clyde E. Sinclair, P.M. and
Stewart Cranston , Past Master
16.10
Keystone ..........................No. 161.. .. D. Russ<:'ll Evick. E lected Representati ve....
28.84
..........
__
.............
Master
Lamb,
R.
No.
James
....
........
164
................
Harmony
Excelsior ................ ........No. 166 .... Delmar Dean Wisc, Master
Raymond J. Rodrigllcz. Senior Warden
Frank C. S. Pedersen. Junior Warden
Ralph E. Plathman n, Past Master
Loyd W. T. Gray. Past Master
Joseph C. Kohlbecher, Past Master
Harry F. Lutticken. Past Master
4.62
................ .... ..
Alamcd.:i ··--··-----·--------·-----No. 167.... John McClellan, Master
Ernest Veach, Senior W ardcn
William Neal. Junior Warden
3.64
Redwood City ·--·--------·--·No. 168 .... Archie N. Sharp, Master.................... ..
John 0. Lomax. Senior Warden
Wm. Oifford Clarke, Junior Warden
David Adam. Past M;istcr
William J. Hodgson . Past Master
Mission ............................ No. 169.... George C. Murray, Master
Richard A. Hebert, Senior Warden
H arvard H. Cunningham, Junior \Varden
Jack E. Hursh, Past Ma ster
Robert Lintner, Past Master
Haig 0. Soghomonian, Past Master
14.00
Elk Grove ........................No. 173.... Wayne L. Clark, Senior Warden
Jay B. Camp, Junior Warden
... 17.78
Drytown ··------·-·---- -·----·--·No . 17-L.. Leslie J. Crain, Senior Warden.. ...............
Adrian Taylor, Past Master
......... 6.H
Antioch ............... _...........No. 175 .... Leo R. Hernande z. Master... ......... .. ___
William R. Banks, Senior Warden
George H. Rebstock. Past Master
Gilbert T. Treswell. Master ................ . ___ __ ...._ 63.56
....
178
.
--·-·--···No
Phoenix ··---·-----·Duncan J. McLarty , Senior Warden
\Valter E. Boggs, Junior Warden
Talmadg e E. Benson. Past Master
21.84
Mendocino ......................No. 179.... Delbert N. Wade, Senior Warden................
John D. D earing, P.M. and Inspector............ 20.16
......... 5.32
Petaluma ..........................No. 180.... Ellsworth W. Bean, Master...................
Wolfgan g Eberwein . Senior Warden
Heri>ert S. Louden, Junior Warden

N o. of Lodge

Rcprc..-nta:i ~••

439
M ile•gc J\!loVJ<d

John Keller, Jr .. P.M . and Inspector.............. 5.32
Emil Joseph Mogel, Past Master
J. Carl Werner, Past Master
8.82
Ward en...... -----Russian River ..................No. IS L .James D. Gillette. Senior
7.56
Joseph W. Wright. P .M. and Inspector........
Gladston e A. Gillette. Past Master
......... .. 13.02
Arbuckle ..........................No. 182 .... Willard E. Stetson . M<istcr ____ __ ___ _.. _____ ...... .. l '4.70
Sheldon E. Morris, P .M. and Inspector
.. 14.98
Clear Lake ...................... N o. 183 .... Hugh I. K<>tterman. Elected Repres<c>ntative
Sferra Valley ..................No. 184.... Gffford D. W ebber,
Elected Represen tative ................ .............. 30.38
H. Biaggi. Elected Representative...... 18.06
John
....
185
No.
........
................
Claiborne
Archer R. Richardson, P<ist Master................ H.00
-.. ------- 48. 16
Evening Star ..................No. 186.... N. F. Swickard . Senior Warden ..........
I 1.20
.
................
...
Master...
Pate,
E.
John
....
187
No.
................
Keith ................
Gustav H . Steele. Senior Warden
Burton H . Clark, Junior Warden
Donald H. Chesbro, Past Master
Oakland ..........................No. 188 .... William Geh11, Master
Andrew G. Graham , Senior Warden
Jay T. H ill. Junior \Varden
Melvin L. Graves. Past Master
Sidney F. Sea. Past Master
Northern Light ..............No. 190 .... Not Represented
Marin ..............................No. 19 1.... Wesley W. Honeyma n. Mas!cr
Howard Chadd. Senior W arden
Harold P. Boerst. Junior Warden
George T. Rowse, P .M. and lnsrcctor
John V . Bacigalu pi, Past Master
Arthur E. Hessel. Past Master
Lawrence P. M cNear. Past Master
Josc-ph C. Meagor. Past Master
William M. Vanderbilt. Pa st Master
47.60
\Varden
Santa Barbara ................ No. 192....Carl E . Mcland t>r. SeniorInspec
tor........... ----- -47.60
Ray H . P11ine, P. M . and
Wayne W. Fitkin, Past M11stcr
A. W. Kincaid, Past Master
38.36
Ferndale ..........................No. 193 .... \:Villiam T. H ight, Senior \V;irdcn --...............
5.18
.............
Mountain View .............. No. 194.... Kendall C. Cole. Master_ ___
Robert M . H apfeli, Senior Warden
Gordon C. Gilliam, Junior Warden
Engelbert B. E richsen. Pa•t Ma,ler
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
W endell Grubb. Past Master
John S . Hawks, Past Master
ted
Buckeye ..........................No. 195.... Not RepresenDane,
Master___ .......................... 31.36
Sao Simeon _ ................ No. 196.... H enry Otto
59.50
aster.... ______.................
M
Lowe.
E.
S·wain
....
198
No.
....
................
Wilming ton
Emme t L. M cLachlan, Junior \Varden
Alton T. OuRant. Past Master
Wilford G. Lundquist, Past Master
56.00
Thomas F . Mason, Past Master.. ......... ..
Garfield E. Tyler, Pa~t Master
17.22
W arden ______ _
Hartley ............... .......- ...No. 199 .... Edward B. Shower, Senior
Victor 0. Barnes, Junior Warden
Guido de Ghetaldi, P.M. and Inspector________ 18.48
.. 26.74
Truckee ..........................No. 200 .... Zeph 0. Rose. Master.... .............................
Charles Rich. Senior W arden
Lorrin W. Ferdinan d, Junior Warden
26.74
Wayne E. Philippi, P.M. and Inspector ....
James Mciver, Past Master
E. E. Thompson. Jr., Past Master

440
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod~e

Reprcaentativu

Miloage All"-d

9.10
Sllveyville --·-·--··-·""·-·... -No. 201....Dwiqht K. Parks, Master ...
Ralph W. Gastner, Senior \Varden
John W. Tutt, Past Master
... 56.12
Pentalpha ........................No. 202 ... Howard J. Henschel, Master........
S tephen E. Yarborough. Senior \:Varden
Edward L. Dunn, Junior Warden
John M. Gordon, Past Master
William Rhodes Hervey. Jr., Past Master
Julius L. Nelson. Past Master
H arvey A. R yan, Past Master
Harold E. Sargent, Past Master
..... . .... ... 1"1.70
Confidence __...................No. 203 .... James M. Nave. Master.......... .
Pong 0 . Jing, Past Mast1•r
Louis Martin, Past Master
15.12
Salinas ............................No. 204 .... Archie G. Betts. Master.............. ... ..
Edward G. Tom, Senior \Varden
Ben J. Gerbrandt. Junior Warden
Wilton J. Smith, P.M. and Inspector............ 15.12
23.52
Olivet -----·--------------·-·----···No. 205 .... Charles S. Blackburn. Master.... . .......
John E. Argo, Senior Warden
Laurence Jay Berry, Junior Warden
12.74
Stani.sfaus ·----------·-·----···-··No. 206.... Carl B. Crane, Senior Warden ...........
\Villiam L. Hurd, P.M. and Inspector............ 1"1.56
}ilmes Guinn, Past Master
Anaheim ---·-·-·----..............No. 207.... Norman B. Smith, Master............. .............. 60.34
Virgil C. Fransen, Senior Warden
A. Bird Cross. P .M . and Inspector................ 60.34
9.52
Rio Vista ........................ No. 208 .... Hcrshel C. Brown, Senior Warden...............
32.48
King David's .................. No. 209 ... Howa rd S. Franklin, Master.... ...........
Dan H. Wasson, Senior Warden
Harry W. Austin, Junior Warden
C. Herold Gregory, Past Master
Casper J. \Veir. Jr .. Past Master
7.00
Friendship ...............- ....No. 21 0.... Brucc Folcndorf. Master............................. .....
Lewis Stotesberry. Senior W arden
Wallace Stova ll. Junior Warden
Paul N. Holsinger, Past Master
Carl H. Nelson, Past Master
Robert L. Norton. Past Master
Roland E. Snyder. Past Master
Wm. P. T ruran. Past Master
San Benito ......................No. 211.. .. Herman Hermansen. Elected Representative 13.30
South San Franc!sco......No. 212 .... Albert H. H ufn;igel. Master
E arl S. Morningstar, Junior \:Varden
Roger Fernandez. Past Master
San Buenaventura ..........No. 211 .. .. Luther Hachtmann. Master................. .. ........ 51.24
E . Ray Brown, Senior Warden
F. Howard Scheeler, Junior Warden
Oak Grove ......................No. 215 .... Arthur L. Murray. Master
Harold A. Miller, Senior Warden
Lawrence Stickney, Junior \Varden
Phil H arris. Past Master
William Nankcrvis, Jr .. Past Master
Doric ................................No. 21 6 .... Mortimcr Gusset, Master
Anthony Horne. Senior W arden
Allan Kin!]. Junior Warden
Ira W . Coburn, Past Grand Master
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past Maste r
M onterey ........................No. 217 .... Edmund M. Dreyer. Senior Warden............ 16.38
H owa.rd J. Muir, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

·
Reprucntativca

No. of Lodge

441
M ileage Allow.d

5.60
. arden..........................
No 218.... S. L. E vans, Senior \V
·
u
Richard Famariss. Junior \Varden
;v1osa1c ............................ .
Niles B. Bentley, Past Master
No 219 ....John Falabella, Senior Warden
It )'
Vito L. Bruno, Past Ma ster
Speranza a tana .......... .
John Icardi, Past Master
Robert Morando, Past Master
DO\vney ....................._... No. 220.... S. Jean Brewer, Master............... .................. 58.52
William C. Jcbe, Senior Ward en
Edwin G. Ketchum. Junior Warden
Claudis Thos. Shirley, P.M. and Inspector.. 58.52
60.20
Inyo ..................._...........No. 221.. ..Jack B. Fair, Senior WWardend.........
Jesse M . Ferren, Junior ar en
Martin E. Nilius. Past Master
14 56
·
Roseville ..........................No. 222 ....~h~rt. li;et~r~~n~rSe~~~tW~~d·~~ ..................
Bakersfield ......................No. 224 .... John C . Mitchcll. Master................................ 40.16
ohn \V. Ray. Senior W a rden
ohn T. Radman. Junior Warden
. Clifton Carpenter, P.M. and Inspector...... 40.46
Robert E. C urran, Past Master
Wm . M. McKenny. Past Master
Lloyd E. Myers. Past M aster
Brooklyn ..........................No. 225 .... Roy G. Arp. Senior Warden
Elmer W . Johnson, Junior Warden
Don D. Holm. Past Master
Irving Ma1111es. Past Master
Louis Sutter. Past Master
San Mateo ......................No. 226 ... Paul F. Seidel. Mast('r
Lynn W . P erry, Jr .. Senior \Varden
George E. \ ,Yatts. Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith. P.M. and Inspector
Earl A. D avis. Past Master
Arthur J. Mercer. Past Master
,
N 228 .... Stanley W. Smith, Senior Warden.............. 10.08
Robert R. Houssler. Past Master
Athens ...................... -..... o.
Vance A. Turner, Past Master
4.34
N 0 229 ....Antonio G. Espinosa, Master............. ..
Fred M. Fralick. Senior\Varden
Solano ......................._..... •
Richard H. Nivarcl. Junior Warden
Robert 0 . Gloeckner. P;ist Master
Donald H . MacLean. Past Master
Raymond H . Nivarel. Past Master
William D. Peden, Past Master
Clarence E. Shoaf. Past Master
No. 230.... Leonard A . Stoumbaugh. Master.................. 18.76
North Bllttc ....................
Clare B. Campbell, Assistant Grand
Lecturer ........................................................ 18.76
No. 231....Arthur J. \Veddle. Master.............................. 25.48
Covelo
.............----···-:::::No. 232 .... Eugenc M . Freitas, Senior Warden.............. 39.06
Lee A. Anderson, Junior Warden
Janesv i11e ...................
Joseph S. Roberts, G rand S tandard Bearer.. 38.92
Arvid J. Friedlund. Master................... ....... 10.36
....
233
No.
Calistoga
Walter E. Tamal!_ni, Jr., Senior Warden
........................
Arno ld Enderlin, Junior Warden
35.70
Hope ..........---··--···--·--···No. 231 ....R. A . Scol;:iri, El('cted Representative......... .
53.48
.
...............................
Master
Page.
· V !Icy ..............No. 235 .... Francis R.
S urpnse a
No 236 ....Chester N. Matsen, Master........................ .. 14.42
F
·11
H 1 s erry ...................... ·
William s. ThOlllpson, P.M. and Inspector .. 11 .42

J

442
Name of l odge

No. of Lodge

Repreae ntativu

443

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allowed

Guada lupe ···············----··No. 237.... John S. Chandler. Senior W a rden.................. 33.04
Henry H nmburg, Jr ., Junior W a rden
Thomas G. Cockin\]. Past Master
Joe 0 . Elliott, Past Maslt'r
Henry R. Gcwe. Past Master
Jo hn Jen kins, P 0st Master
Colusa .............................. No. 240 .... Arthur W. Berry, Senior W a rden................ 17.36
\Varrcn G. Davison. Past Master
L. R. Proctor, Past Master
Santa l\na ...................... No. 241... Ralph T . Schwanz, Master.. ......................... 60.90
13. J. V ickers, S<'nior W arden
Geor t Kinzer, Junior Vvardrn
John acy Taylor, P.M. and lnsp<'ctor......... . 60.90
M agnolia ........................ No. 242 .... Gordon B. Reid, Master... ............................... 47.60
Clinton B. France, Senior W arden
Marvin R. Andrew s, Junior \V<irdcn
Ralph C. Hine. Past Master
3.78
Eucalyptus ················-····N o. 243 ....Gcorgc D . Hayes. M aster................................
Lawrence E. Boyles, Senior W arden
Merlyn E. Yoder, Junior Warden
Arlie R. Plcming, Past M aster
\.Valier F. Flied. Past Master
Henry J. Keim, Past Master
\V. Teubt.>rt Smith, P<ist M<istcr
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
Arthur Woodruff, Past Master
Alcatraz -························No. 2·H .... \Vilber L. Misner. M aster
\Villiam M . Autry, Jun ior Warden
Lowell K. Bain, Past Master
!\. A. Campbell . Past Master
E. A. C lothier, Past Master
Chnrles Nelson, Past M aster
John G. Sjoberg. Past Master
20.H
Laurel ··················---·-······No. 245 .... Robert Dunlap, M aster......................
LeRoy A. Brown, Senior Warden
Gervis N. Wurschmidt. Junior Warden
Pomona ............................No. 246 .... Earl C. Lowe. Master.................................... 6 1.04
Clifford Wamd, Senior Warden
Richard L. Soper. Junior W arden
W . L. Gra nt, Past Master
George A . Ritter. Past Master
Fresno ..............................No. 247 .... Robert 0. Tyrrell. Master............. ............... 25.62
Kenneth P. Larson. Senior Warden
George W . W a rner, Junior Warden
Edward L. Kellas. Grand Bible Bearer.......... 25.62
Gcor11e E. H iatt, Past Master
John Loren Stewart, Jr., Past Master
Alturas ......................... ... No. 248 .... N ot Represented
Adin ····-·-·····-··-·· ··-··No. 250.... Aubrey C. Bieber, Elected Representati ve.... 44.94
Landm nrk ···-········--·--·· No. 253 .... Merlin T. Taber, Jr., Master..................... ..... 10.92
Calvin Cowles Ma st, Senior Warden
Alfred L. Hayes, P .M. and Inspector............ 10.92
Paul Stephens, Jr .. Past Master
Don Warren, Past M aster
Reading .......................... No. 254 .. -Edward M. Clendinen, Master............. ......... 30.38
Allan S. Hart, Senior Warden
Albert A. Bryceson, P.M. and Inspector...... 30.38
D aniel C. McRae, Past Master
Albert F. Ross, Past Master............................ 30.38
George W. Sturm, Past Master...................... 30.38

Name of lodse

No. of Lodge

R<pr<•ent.cive•

Milease ,A.Uo-d

Welcome ···-·····--··········N o. 255.... James A. Wiles. Master... ........................... 29 .82
Robert R. Greene, Senior W a rden
Shelby F. Passley. P.M. and Inspector.......... 30.80
Lodi ·-·-·························-···No. 256 .... Lewis P. Singer, Jr .. Mastrr.......................... 13.16
Robert F. Haden, Senior W arden
Ezra M. Ehrhardt, Past Master
Penrhyn .......................... No. 258.... R. Albert Schwe i ~cr t , Master............ ... ........ 15.96
E. Lloyd Dudley, Senior Warden
Wesley G. Barnes, Junior W a rden
E vergreen ···-··········-·······N o. 259.... Harlan C. Sandusky, Master ........ _............. 64 .40
S. L. C ha nnon, Senior W arden............... ....... 64.40
John B. Moq1an, Junior Warden
William 1-1. Price. P.M. and Inspector.......... 64.40
\ V. M. Copeland, Past Master
Byron C. Morton, Past Master....... .. ............ 64 .40
,
K ing S olomon s-Seaport N o. 260 .... Lcster F . Anderson. M aster
Maynard A. Tasem. Senior \Varden
Nick A. Verreos, Junior Warden
Eugene S . Hopp, G rand Orator
Ulysses G. Patropulos. P .M. and Inspector
Bertram C . von Konsky, P.M. and Inspector
Henry E. Bennett. Sr., Past Master
Gilbert A . Benoit. Past Master
T homas W. Chinn, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean, Jr ., Past Master
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
Edwin A . Nylund, Past Master
Albert 0 . Rier, Past Master
Adolph C. von Konsky, Past Master
John E. Werry, Past Master
4.48
Jo hn Wullschleger, Past M aster....................
Tuscan ················-·········No. 261.... Everctt J. \.Vorsley, Elected Representative.. 15.96
Lompoc ......................... ... No. 262 .... \Villia m M. \.Vhite. Senior Warden............ 40.18
Robert D. Speers. Past Master
H esperian ..................:..... No. 264 .... Chester Arthur D avis, Senior Warden.......... 33.04
Raymond Albert Olson, Junior Warden
Donald E . Thomas, P .M. and Inspector...... 33.04
DeWitt Meredith, Past Master
Orland ............................ No. 265.... Donald H . Keene. Senior W arden................ 21.70
Ga lt .................................. No. 267 .... Frank L. Baker. Senior Warden .................... 12.32
Durant ·····- ···-··········--·No. 268 .... David T . McKibben. Master
Frank T . Smeider, Senior Warden
Thomas J. Whitten, Junior W a rden
Niles 0. Millar. P .M. and Inspector
Oliver J. Brown, Past Master
R. D. Gilmore. Past Master
Ch arles Ratkovich, Past Master
George Thomson. Past Master
Olive Branch ··········-······No. 269.... W. D. Luton. Master...................................... 31.78
W. H. Jeter. Senior Warden
Wm. K. Hallows, Junior Warden
Snow Mountain ..............No. 271.... Thomas E. Haskell. Master............................ 21. 70
C has. A. Butler, Past Master

..··················

57.54
Pasadena ······-·-··--·--·····N o. 272. ... ~£~:J~~A~~s:~i~W~~d~~·· ·
Fred V. Griffin, Junior Warden
Ralph T. Merriam, Past Master.. .................... 57.54
Anchor ·····- ············--·····N o. 273.... Kile L. Weeks. Master.................................... 58.38
Ross H . Henderson, Senior Warden
~rge Q. Evans, P.M. and Inspector

444
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
N o. of Lod11e

RepreJCntativeo

Mileage All""ed

Otis D . 'Neddie, Past Master
Richard L \Villiams. Past Master
Don A . W ilson, Past Master
Ar royo ............................No. 274.... \ Villiar:i R. Pierson. Senio r vVardcn............
~lkdale ..........................NNo. 275....ThMomasLB. BHeh
w i tt.MSenior Warden................
e ma .............................. o. 277.... c1vin . et e1, aster................................
Laurence L Bolger, Senior Warden
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master
Southern California ......No. 273.... Joseph T. Blake, Master..................................
\Va lter G. Dreeke. Senior Warden
Lester E . Gautier, Junior W arden
Vl illiarn J. Cook, Past M aster
Lawrence Eliason, Past Master
Francis B. Galvery, Past Master
Adolphe R. E. Roome, P ast Master
Hanford ..........................No. 279 .... C. B. Smith, Senior Warden..........................
E. D. Faber, Junior Warden
Madera ............................ No. 280 .... Ray Whitaker, Senior Warden......................
Joe Sumpter, Junior Warden
Mount Shasta ................No. 281.. .. Norrnan L. Miller, Senior W arden........... .....
A. Bartlett Moss, Past M aster
Callayomi ........................No. 282.... Paul St. John, Master......................................
Lewis Simonic, Senior Warden
South W est .................... No. 283.... Calvin P. Edwards, Senior W arden ... .
Robert P. Clark, Junior \Varden
Robert H . Beetlestone, Past Maste r
Edw. C. \Vright, Sr., Past Master
San Miguel ......................No. 2R5.... Gcorge R. Work, Senior \<Varden..... .. . .. ..
Paso Robles ....................No. 2 6 .... George L. Carter. Senior vVardcn................
Paul L Turner, P.M. and Inspector............
\Vinnedumah ..................No. 2R7.... 0 . L. Dcxld, Senior Warden ................. _.......
Maxwell ..........................No. 2 8.... Louis G. Sutton, Elected Representative......
Leland E. \Vallace, Past Master
Elsinore ..........................No. 289 .... Richard L. Staley, Master................................
Graydon M. Harn, Senior Warden
Howard G. Habenicht, Past M aster
East Gate ........................No. 290.... Charles C. Cadman, Master.............. ...........
Gerald P. Cashion, Senior W arden
John Allen Crosby , Past Master
Hugh Allen Dinning, Past Master
Curtis C. O rrell, P ast Master
J. W alter Sprouse, Pa st Master
Santa P aula .................... No. 29 1....Ernest M . Shively, Senior Warden.... ..........
James \V. Law, Junior Warden
Los Gatos ........................ No. 292.... Mario D. Rossi, Master..................................
Wallace R. Freer, Senior W a rden
Orange Grove ................ No. 293 ... Floyd D. H iggins, Master......... .... ..... .......
L. Gilbert Darwin, Senior W arden
J. Raymond Craft, Junior Warden
T raver ............................No. 294.. .. John F. \Varholm , Master.......... ...................
Leon Henslee, Senior W a rden
Edward Esajian. Junior Warden
Robert N. Rouch, Past Master
Mt. Jackson ....................No. 295 .... C letus Leroy Wadlow, Junior Warden ... .
Silver Gate ......................No. 296.... Shelton \V. C ass, M aster ... .
John Bain. Senior Warden
Thomas D. Meyer, Past MastN
G . Merton Rose. Past M aster
Clarence J. Shepard, Past Maste r

34.72
13.30
27.72
56.42

29.96
22.54
28.84
12.74
73.6-i

27.16
28.42
28.42
53.90
17.22

66.08
56.42

53.48
7.42
60.62
28.-42

9 .66
73.08

Na1nc of Lodge

N n. of Lodge

R cpr<o<ntativ..

445
Mileaa:< Allowr<l

Dunsmuir .......................No. 2CJ7 .. Law rence E. Newton, Senior \Vo:1rdcn
37.94
John A. Stephens, Jr., Junior W .1rdl'n
Rohert C. Harris, Past Master
6.30
Liberty ............................ No. 29Q .. J. Alan Hulme. Master.............. .
Jo hn T . Thompson, Senior \ Varden
Fay A. Chapman. Junior W nrden
6.86
John vV. Baker, P.M. and l n!>pC'ctor
Chester Jnmes Grant, P ast Ma stH
Carl A. Linderoth, Past Master
64.40
Redlands ..........................No. 3(1() ....Lce S. Simmonds. Senior \\';irden.
Nelson F. Sembach. Junior W ;:i rde n
65.52
Kenneth Dowell. P.M. and Inspector.
60.76
Ontario ............................No. 30 1.. .. James C. Dooman, Sr .. Senior W arden ... .
Viard H. Figgins. Junior W a rden
James W. D<1vidson, Past Master
Santa Lucia ....................No. 302.... Lestcr T. Schell, Master............. .. . ...... ...... 21.14
Alfred \V. Yelkin. Junior \Varckn
Charles Epps, P ast Master
F;irnum Howard, Past Mas ter
Prcd Y. Mar, Past Master
31.86
PorterVille ......................No. 303 .... Mc-lvin C. Santry, Jr., M aster... .
Jerrel 1. Medlin. Senior \ Varden
A. Glen \\'rig ht, Junior \ Varden
Reedley ............................No. 3•H .... G lenn M . \Vebb, S enior W arden......... ........ 28.56
Azusa ..............................No. 305 ... John L. Ogborn. Master.......................... .
59.50
Albert W. Okrrson, Senior \Varden
Chnrles B. Mcl ees. Past MastC'r
64.68
Ashlar ..............................No. 306.... Homer H . Johnson. Junior \ \1 arden.
G. E . Berresford, Past M aster ·
56.14
Santa Mo nica ................No. 307... George \V. Pike, Master................
T . Ray Halldorson. Senior \V;.irJcn
Hamilton W. Monteith, Junior \ V:ird,-n
Paul C . Bruer, Past Master
\Valter R. Ringwald. Pa st M;:istrr
58.52
Monrovia ........................ No. 308.... Michad Gildon. Master ..................... .
Georqe E. Tennant. Senior \Varden
Bill Thomas, Junior W arden
36.25
Delano ............................No. 3'.l9 ... J)on Noble, Master .................................... .
Jrsse W. Scott, Jr., Senior W arden
Harry T. Hofman, Junior W arden
Sisson ..............................No. 310 .... William A. Letchrr. Senior V·hlrden............ 39.20
Los Banos ........................ No. 312 .... William I-l. Sloan. Jr., M aster...................... 17.64
Tehachapi ......................No. 3 13.. . 'Nilliam R. Porter, Senior W arden ............. 46.34
Philip D. Marx, Junior W a rden
63.00
Temescal ........................No. 314 .. . Paavo J. N ylander, Senior \Varden ....... .
Kenneth M. Ryc raft, Junior Warden
58.52
N orwalk ..........................No. 3 15 ...Gera ld E. A egerter. Senior \Varden .
Edward T . Keigwin. Junior \V;irdcn
\Villiam E. Ep£erson, Past Maste r
Sanger ............................No. 31 6 ... H . fvl. Ritter. Elected Rcpresentatiw.. ... ..... 27.72
W ayne E . Burk, Past M as!er........................ 27.72
Fallbrook ........................No. 31 7....Carlton Gardner. Senior VV'arc!cn ............... . 7(l.70
Emmanuel ......................No. 318 .... Gil:.,rrt H. Clark. Master............... .
19.32
Herbert J. Meyer, P ilst Mastt'r
Hollenbeck ......................No. 319 .... Frcd R. McCoy, Mastr r................................ 56.42
Harold \V. Noble. Senior \Varden
John M. Eagle, Junior W arden
56.42
Roy T . Kiele, P.M. and Inspector .....
Robert F. Bergmann, Pa st Master
Thomas J. Owens. Past Master
Ugo Rost<1gno, Past M aster

446
Nome of LodKc

No. of Lodge

Rcpreaentativcs

447

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Milcogc AUo..,.d

South Gate .....................No. 320.... Alla n E. Barnum, Senior Warden................ 56.'12
William J. Creighton, Jr., Junior Warden
Mark A. Green, Past Master........................ 56.-42
David H. Terry, Past Master
Alisa I ..............................No. 321.. .. Gerald E. Dailey. Master ................ .
5.-46
Joseph \V. Watt, Senior Warden
Charles L. Hellen, Junior Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra ........................No. 322 ....Roscoe B. Easton. Master ............... .
57.40
Robert E. Gerber. Senior Warden
John E. Mattison. Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
vVh!ttier ..........................No. 323 .... Charlic T. Moorman. M aster....... .. ............ .. 57.82
Harold C. Cook, Senior W arden
William D. Padgette, P.M. and Inspector.... 57.82
Clarence W. Peck, Past Master
Corona ............................ No. 32'1 ... Robert G. Godfrey, Master ................. .
57.54
Clyde Hubbell. Past Master
Gordon F. Porter, Past M aster
Linn G. Roberts. Past Master
Consuelo ..........................No. 325 .... 0gle Kellerman, Senior W arden ..............
71.12
Thomas W. Eckford, Past Master
Needles ............................No. 326 .... S tuart G. T hompson, Master....... .
79.66
Addison Owen. Senior Warden
William R. Carty, Past Master
Merle C. Hammond, Past Master
Long Beach .................... No. 327 ....George C. Gordon, Master............................ 60.06
Roy E. Blakeney. Senior Warden
Robert E. Hilts. Junior Warden
Georg e P. Calderwocxl. Gr. Sw. Bearer...... 60.06
John H. Ferguson, P.M. and Inspec tor ..... 60.06
James R. Arl!lor. Past Master
Alvin V. Hylton, Past Master
Henry G. Van Dyke, Past Master
Redondo .......................... No. 328 ... Wallace R. Lott, Senior Warden..............
57.96
Merle L. Coffee, Junior W arden
Donald]. Shoemaker, P.M. and Inspector .. 57.26
Eldon B. Morgan, Past M aster
Wilson 0. Wade. Past Master
Vallee De France ............ No. 329.... Pierre DuBarry. Master.................................. 56.-42
Jacques Bourguignon, Senior Warden
Charles A. Thomasset, P.M. <ind Inspecto r.. 56.42
Andre Caen, Past Master
Vitalis Ezratty. Past Master
Michel Gaul. Past Master
Kilauea ............................No. 330... .Philip P. Frendo, Senior Warden .................. 381.19
William M. Whitman, Jr. Gr. Steward ....... . 338.19
PaciAc Grove .................. No. 331.. ..f'. \Villiam Hellman, Master....... .
17.08
Stanley A. Sells, Senior Warden
Arch Balchin, P.M. and Inspector...... ..
17.08
Ellsworth H. Burson, Past Master
E. A. Cope, Past Master
San Pedro ...................... No. 332 .... Vem L. Belcher, Master................................ 60.20
Henry Llewellyn, Senior Warden
Raymond Inlow, Junior Warden
Alta ·-----·-···----·············· ..No. 333 .... Not Represented
Covina ..... - ....····-····-··-..No. 334 .... John E. Whitlock, Senior Warden.............. .. 59.6-4
Cecil C. Cockrell, Junior Warden
Wayne C. Bates. lJ.M. and Inspector.
59.08
Robert M. Henry, Past Master

N•m< of Lodge

No. of Lodge

R epresentativco

Miln11• Allo"""d

\Vest Gate ...................... No. 335 ... .R aymond P. Arenson, Senior Warden..........
Leo H. Pinsky, Junior Warden
Fruitvale .......................... Na. 336.... Burton 0. Young, Master
Dana "A" Turpin, Senior Warden
Myron R. Hansen, Junior W a rden
Arthur G. Berger, Past Master
Paul A. Brom. Past Master
Leonard 0. Hansen, Past Master
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny. Past Master
Robert D. Rhien, Past Master
Carquinez ........................No. 337 .... Donald R. Marlow, Master............................
Elton L. Turner. Past Master
San Jacinto ......................No. 338 .... Not Represented
Fullerton ..........................No. 339 .... Williarn F. Wall, Junior Warden.......
W. L. Currie. Past Master
Oxnard ............................No. 341.. .. William J. Watts, Master.. ...........................
Alva B. Collins, Senior Warden
Ronald E. Jones, P.M. and Inspector............
Carl E. Mumper, Past Master
San Fernando ................No. 343.... Robert G. Wieser, Master. ........... ..................
Warren L. Bacon. Junior Warden
J. Kenneth Savage, Sr. Gr. Stewa rd
T. L. Biddison. Past Master
Clark H. Kirkham, Past Master
Starr King ...............- .....No. 3H .... Myron K. Rosenberg, Master
Ben Weinstein, Senior Warden
Edward H. Brown, Junior Warden
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Gr. Master
Al H. Barkoff. Past Master
Arthur S. Becker, Past Master
Charles Bl'Cker, Past Master
Hal Curtis, Past Master
George G. Hawxhurst. Past Master
Ben J. Joseph, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Arthur Salomon, Past Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Brentwood ...................... No. 345 .... Charles Weeks, Senior Warden..................
Palo Alto ........................ No. 3'16.... Carl T. Newman, Master..............................
J. William Carl, Senior Warden
John G. Meredith, Junior Warden
L. H arold Anderson, Past Gr. Master..........
Lloyd M. Harms, Past Master
Adam B. Morten. Past Master.. . ................
McKinley ........................No. 347 .... Hillard M. Reeves. Master
Arthur C. Rogers. Senior Warden
Edward P. Margherio, Junior Warden
Troy Anderson. Past M aster
Fred R. De Barrows, Past Master
William E. Rich mond. Past Master
San Bernardino .............. No. 348.... Al v in N. Schmitz. Master...........
... ..........
Herbert B. Wessel, Senior Warden
Francis M. Campbell. Past Master
John M. Heron. Past Master
Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
Walter A. Tompkins, Past Master
Donald T. Wright P;.st M<1ster

56.-42

3.92
60.20
52.64
52.64
52.92
52.92

7.84
4.-48
i.48
6.86

63.56

448
N a.me of Lod1c.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod t;~

Rcpre$entativl!a

GRAND LODGE OF CALII'ORNIA

449

M ilu gc Alt°'"<cl

Sequoia ······-·-·················No. 319 .... \Villiam B. Jensen. Master
Donald \V. Besoain. Senior Warden
Merrill D. Coy, P.M. <ind Inspector
George C. Courrcges, Past Master
Frank D. Gatter. Past Master
D ona ld M. Hug hes , Past Master
J. W alter Proctor, Past Master
Henry S. Savage, Past M aster
Palestine .. _...................... No. 351.. .. Richard L. Allday. Master........................... .
George D. Bloomfield. Senior Warden
James A. Boyle, Junior W arden
Benjamin R. Jordan. Past Master
Sunset ..............................No. 352 ... John Chackerian. St'nior Warden ..................
Jack Mindell. Junior \V;1rdcn
John H. Hardy, Past Master
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
\Villiam Kludjian. Past M aster
Pinole .............................. No. 353 ...James C. Ervin, M aster................................... .
Richard H. Maroon, Senior Warden
Robert L. Spinney, Junio r W arden
Howard C. Nich olson, Past M aster
Presidio ............................No. 354.... Alexander Yaroma. Master
Edward H . Beve rly. Senior \Varden
Frederick \V. Traveny. Junior Warden
Joseph M. Ruggiero, P.M . and Inspector
Alexander L. Croce. Past Master
Eric R . Johnson, Past Master
David R . Noah, Past Master
William D. Vcrbarg. Past Master
Edward H . Wilkens, Past Master
H ollywood ······-·············No. 355.... Don H. Schwimley. M ;ister........................... .
Enos L. Gamet. Senior W ardcn
Joseph R. D avi!.on, Junior Warden
Leo E . Anderson , P;ist Grand Master..........
Erwin H. Gebhardt, P.M. and Inspector ..... .
Wallace H. Beaudry. Past Master
James F. Davidson, Past Master
Fred E. Green, Past Master
Ward J. Henry, Past Master
William W. Skelton. Past Master
Mill Valley ···-···············No. 356 ... Richard A. Dangers. Master
Richard K. Mills, Senior W arden
Frederick A. Wilson. Junior Wmden
Harold R. Hcnrv, Past Master
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master
Howard A. Ronning. Past Master
Kent Seymour, P ast Mastrr
Wesley V. Smith, Past Master
Buena Park ....................No. 357 .... lesse W . James, Senior W <1rden ..... .
D ale C. Austin. Junior Warden
Ted R. Siems, P.M. and Inspector............... .
Golden State .................. No. 35 .... James 0. Moore. Master ......................... ......
Joseph R . Reeve. Sr.. Sen ior \ Vardlc"n
Arthur R. Plank, Jr., Junior Warden
Burton Meyer, Jr .. P.M. and Inspector.
Harry Alton McPrye, Past M aster
Loyalton ..........................No. 359 .... Not Represented
San Francisco-Victory ..No. 360.... Raymond W. H aun. M;istcr
John C. Jensen. Senior Warden
kenneth W. Hinkle, Past Master
Edwin C. Mathisen, Past Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master
Milton T. Simmons, Past Master
Otto von Raven, Past Master

Name ol Lodee

56.42

56.42

3.78

55.H
56.42
56.42

59.22
60.34
56.42
56.42

No. of Lodge

R<prc•entativ<o

M ileage Allowed

Fort Bragg ...................... No. 361....Robert C. Dempsey. Senior Ward en............ 23.24
Charity ............................ No. 362. ... James R. D y er, M aster...... ...............
6 .1\6
Paul H. Nelson, Senior \Varden
Ross K. F uller, Past M aster
F. Wilbur Mitchell, Past M aster
Rudy L. Nelson, Past Master
\Villiam H . Scott, Past Master
Berkeley ·············-·········No. 363.... Floyd K. Smith. M aster
James D. Leach. Senior W arden
Osborn H. Bradley, Junior Warden
\Villiam H. Adams. Past Master
Oliver E. McLean. Past Master
Larry C. Moore. Past Master
Willits .............................. No. 365 .... Charles Miller, Senior Warden.................... 19.60
W. D . Ford, Past Master
L11s Pa lm ils ...................... No. 366 .... M<irtin Edward Allred, Master.................... 25.62
R obert P. Larsen, Senior Warden
O scar C. Olsen , Pa st Master
Walter P. Robinson. P;ist Master
Edgar C. Sm ith, Past Master
South Pasaden a ..............No. 367 .... Daniel J. Schmid. Master...................... ..... 57.82
Richard W. Reach, S enior Warden
Harry \V. Palmer, Junio r \Varden
W. F. Hockersmith. Past Master
George W . Roche , Past Master
Unity ................................ No. 368 ....Hubbard 13. Peters. Master ............................... .56.00
Albert F. Simmons, Senior Warden
Melvin C. May, Junior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Past Grand M ;istH................ 56.00
Fred M. Clark, Past M aster.......................... 56.00
Homer E. Rathbun. Pa ~t M aster
Ocean Park ....................No. 369.... Karl D. Duge. (\.faster..... ........... . ............... 56.14
R;:iymond N. Tillo tson, Senior Wi!rden
Richard H. Wallace. Junior Warden
Theodore B. Fach. P.M. and Inspector..
56. 14
\Varner T. Betts. Pa st Mastrr
Hal A. Dumas. Past M ilster
Amity-Seal R ock ............No. 3 70.... Noel H. N eel, Ma strr
William E. Ross, Sr nior W arden
Dew ey R. S tall, Junior W arden
P aul A. Pfluegc!', Grnnd T re<i surcr
Edwin W. Bode , Sr., Past Master
Henry 0. Hamrnerich. Past M ~ st cr
Thomas J. McH enry, Past Mas ter
Robert E. Pinomaki, Past Master
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Otto Stewart. Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie ..No. 371.. .. Paul D. Jones, Senior Warden ...................... 33R. 19
Charles H. McAllister. P.M. and Inspector.. 338.19
G. Warren C lark, Past Master
Alan H . Strike, Past Master
Gardena ····---------···········No. 372 .... Arthur J. Setzer, Master.... ........................... 51\.38
John D. Sparks, S enio r Warden
Robert E. Crist, P.M. and Inspector............ 51\.38
Glen E. Clymore. Past Master
George Cunningham, Past M aster
James H. Gates, P ast Master
Keith W. Schlaegc l, P<1st Master...... ............ 58.38
Riter C. Taylor, Sr .. Past Master

450
N ome of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Roprcocntativco

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mile>~< Al10We4

\Vest Los Angeles .......... No. 373.... John E. Tison, Jr .. Master...........................
Harold E. Kultalahti, Senior W arden
Edwin W. Branawn, Junior W a rden
Harold W . Hasbrouck. Past Master
Jewel ................................ No. 371 .... Ralph H. Johnston, Master
B. Frederic Fisher. Senior Warden
LeRoy H. Davis, Junior Warden
John H. Adams. Past Master
Phil Bovero, Past Master
Rexford Elder. P ast Master
H erbert H . Sc hultz, Past Master
Lou Harry Silberman. Past M aster
Philip Tudor, Past Master
William Van O rnum, Past Mastt>r
Richmond ........................No. 375 .... Matthew McCubb in, M aster
Frank Kerr, Junior \Varden
Emil K. Bender, P ast Master
Myrto n W. Erickson, Past Master
James Leo H alle y, Past M aster
James W. Halley, Past Master
R. F. Johnson, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Ma ster
Fred E. W isherop, Past Master
Francis Drake ................No. 376.... Harlan B. !\frrritt, Master
George W. Brown, Senior \ Varden
James A. Mannon. Junior \Va rden
Earl L. Almquist, Past M aster
Floyd K. Dunn. Past Master
Bernard J. H jerpe. Past Master
Artesia ............................No. 377.... Carl W. Derr. Senior Warden.... .................
Levi W . Hamner, Junior W a rden
Mizpah ............................No. 37/L. Ralph K. Shrode. Senior W a rden..................
John A. Spence. Junior \.Varden
George \ ¥. Perkins, P.M. and Inspector......
W . Lewis Thompson, P ast Master
Fi llmore .......................... No. 379 .... Ulpian S. Starnes. Elected Representative ..
Herman J. Haa se, Past Master
Hunting ton Beach .......... No. 380.... Dene C. Cook, Senior Warden......................
O ceanside ........................No. 381... Clarence A . Thompson, Senior W;irden......
Carl J. Whiteford. Junior Warden
Kenneth C. Stanley. P. M. and Inspecto r......
High[;ind Park ................No. 382 .... Gcorge W . Porter, Jr ., Master......
John R. Duke. S enior Warden
Robert N. Richardson, Junior Warden
Thomas J. B. Gleason. Past Master
Oro5i ................................No. 383 .... Stanley B. Murra y, Master........
Vernon Bernard, Senior W a rdt'n
Arthur P . Bedcner, Past Master
Thomas A. Jadwin, Past Master
El Centro ........................No. 384.... H oward C. Fish. Master........................
George R. Kirk, Senior Warden
Elmer W. Heald, Grand Master..................
Norbert P. T ester. Gr. Marshall....................
Raymond C. Reeder. P .M. and Inspecto r......
John E. Bowman, Past M<ister
Darrell Dixon, Past Master
Charles H . Knights, Past Master..................
Dinuba ............................ No. 385.... Melvin D. Lovelace, Senior \Varden.......... ..
Clarence L. Fraser, P.M . and Inspector........

56.12

58.94
56.42
54.32
54.88
62.41
68.32

68.32
56.42

29.26

86.24
86.24
86.2i
86.24

86.24
29.54
29.54

Na m< of Lodge

N o of Lodge

Rcpre1encativc1

M ileage Allowed

Coalinga ·---·---····---····---····No. 387.... 0rville L. M cElwt>e, Elected Representative
Frank W . Spear, Pa st Master
Lee A . Tune, Past Master
Parnassus ...........- ...........No. 388 .... Kcnneth E. Hopper. M aster
Lloyd R. Lawrence, Senior Warden
James E. Finley, Jr .. Junior W a rden
James E . Finley. P.M. and Inspector
George K. C randall, Past Master
John F . Palmer. Past Master
Robert E. Petersen, P ast Master
\Va llace A . Fager, Past Master
Homer D. Robertson, Past Master
Cha rles P . J. Schmitt, Past Master
Palos V erdes ..................No. 389 ... Robert H. Bell. Ma ster........................
J;ick E. Reese, Senior Warden
Earl W. Bliss, P ast Master
Imperial ..........................No. 390 ....Charlcs E. Owens, Senior Warden..............
East Belt ··········-··-·------.....No. 391.. .. Toe K. P arker. Master....................................
W allace H. Fiske, Asst. Gr. Lecturer..........
Frank W. Parker, P. M . ;ind Inspector..........
West Lake ......................No. 392 .... Clayton Chidester, Master..............................
Arthur A. Smith, Jr.. Senior Warden
Lloyd V . Smith, P .M . and Inspector..............
W alter L . Berger, Past Master
Prank R. Brunner, Past Master
Norris A. H enderson. Past Master
Vernon E . Mitchell. Past Master
Ba lder .............................. No. 393 .... Hcinrich Beustcr, M aster
K. Edwin Person. Senior \ Va rden
Bert C arlson, Junior Warden
Hazelton French, P.M. and Inspector
Stanley E. G ustavson. Past Master
LeRoy W . Johnson, Past Master
Clarence J. Moquin. Past Master
Henry N . O lsen. Past Master
Hugo T . A . Olsson. Past M<ister
O le A . Swansen, Past Master
University ......................No. 394 .... Prcd E. C utler. M<1ster.......................
Clifford Lowry. Senior W arden
Myron E. Smith, Sr. Grand Warden..........
W illiam T . Lisenby, Jr .. Past Master
F red W. Morris, Past Master
Turlock ··----·-·---········-·-·-···No. 395.... Carl A. H amlow, Master................................
Ivan T. Stinson, Senior Warden
E . R. Gaster, Past Master
Apollo ·······-···········--···------No. 396.... Willia m S. Parker. Jr .. Master
Bilbo J. Hillman, Senio r Warden
Chester J. Dempsey.Junior Warden
Alf.red Jo hnson, P.M. and Inspector
Edwin G. Nelson. Past Master
David P. Russell. Past Master
Carl E . Thau, Past Master
Rising Light .....- .............No. 397 .... James R. MacPherson, Master......................
N orman J. Allsberry. Senior Warden
Oliver R. Line, Jun ior \ Varden
Fraternity ········----··-······· ..No. 399 ... .Victor J. Lewin. Ma ster..................................
Alvar E. Born, Senior Warden
Burlingame ......................No. 400 ....W illiaru J. Moir. Master
H . D ale Rowe, Senior Warden
Walter C. Krutman, Junior Warden

29.12

60.06

84.84
19.46
19.46
19.i6
56.42
56.42

59.22
56.42
14.56

57.12
7.00

452
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of lodge

Repre1<ntative1

GRAND LODGE OP C ALIFORNIA
Miluge Aflo~d

Bay View ------····-············No. 40 1. ... Donald McFetridge. Master
Kenneth A. Hoover, Senior \!Varden
Glenn R. Smott, Junior Ward!'n
Milton C. Buckley. Past Master
Eugene H . Dopp, Past Master
Elwin C. Lamp, Past Master
Arthur H. Triggs, Past Master
Brawley .......................... No. 402 ....Glenn T. D uncan. Master.............................. 83.-H
Malcolm L. Wagstaff, Senior W arden
Yerba Buena --··········---···No. 403.... V ance R. H aswell. Master
James J. Dalton, Senior Wardm
Paul M. Hayes, Junior Warden
Lester S. McE!wain, Past Master
Clare W. Wilson, Jr., Past Master
Glendora ..........................No. 401 ... .Thurman Merritt. Master.............................. 59.78
G. B. Gordon, Jr .. Past Master
Moneta ...... :.....................No. 405.... Bill T. Jordan, Master...................................... 56.42
George E. Towner. Sr .. Senior Vh1rclc11
Ernest V. Hagadone, Junior Ward<.'n
Reeves W. Baughn, Past Master
Burbank ..........................No. -106.... Thornas J. Russell, Master.............................. 55.44
Luther C . Vankirk, Senior \Varden
William A. Osbourne. Junior \Varden
Richard B. Carter, Past Master
W. D. Hopkins, Past Master
La Mesa ·---------·········-······No. 407.... \Vard A. Blackman, Master............................ 74.48
Arnold H. Rodieck. Senior Warden
John R. Heap, Junior Warden
Lorenza H. Shaw, P.M. and Inspector........ 74.62
R. Wayne Fillpot, Past M aster........ . ........ 74.48
John James Garrison, Past Master
Sierra Madre .................. No. 408.... Donald R. Proctor, Master....................... .... 58.38
John A. Nau. Senior Warden
H onolulu ------···················No. 409 .... Geor~e N. Kahapea, Sr., Master .................. 338.19
Kenneth M . Kearns. Senior Warden
Charter Rock ..................No. 410.... Spiro A . Barakos, Senior W arden
Charles A. Criss, Past Master
Donald E. Hagerman, Past Master
Sanborn H . Smith, Past Master
Ralph A. Stanley, P<ist MastC'r
Charles \V. Stannard. Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr .. Past Master
Perris ··--·---------················No. 411. ... David E . Duff, Senior \-Varden.................. ... 66.36
Joseph Vail. Junior Warden
Calexico -···--····--·····---······No. 412.... Not Represented
Arlington -······---·······----···No. 41 ·L .. Raymond C. Rausch, Junior Warden............ 56.42
Silver Trowel ..................No. 415 .... Murray Jackson, Senior Warden.................. 55:44
Irvin Shulkin, P.M. and Inspector..... ......... .. 54.60
Van A. Gatewood, Past Master
Lindsay ····-············----·-·····No, 41 6. .. C10rdon R. Hahnle, Senior Warden.............. 33.46
Fremond W. Vollmer, Junior W arden
Alva A. Daniells, P.M. and Ins;:>ector............ 33.46
Clovis ············--··-----------···No. 41 7... Fred Markus. Senior Warden... .. ................ ... 26.18
Elysian ···-·········--------·······No. 41 8 .... Henry A. Taylor. Master.............................. 56:42
Herbert A. Ronn. Jr .. Junior W<1rdcn
\Villiam L. Urban, Senior Warden
Charles K. Schertle, Past Master
Upland ........................._ No. 419 .... Michael J. Hanna, Masti-r.............................. 61.46
Richard R. Baldwin, Senior \Varden
0. Ralph Bentley, Junior \.Varden
Kerman ............................No. 420 .... Edgar E. Choate, Jr., Master........................ 24.78

N•m• of LodGe

No. of Lodge

Rcprcaentativca

453
M•logc Allowed

Inglewood ......................No. 421....Charles M. G ?.,·.-tnrop, Master....................... 58.10
L;irry D. Matson, Senior Warden
John M. Alice, Junior Warden
Marion B. Burke, Past Master
Claude E. Cole, Past Master
Eagle Rock ......................No. ~22 ... Allen L. GMrcn, Senior Ward en.................. 56.42
Jacob M . Seitz, Junior Warden
James E . Calhoun, Past Master
John H. Mihld, Past Master
York ·-----··--······················No. 423.... Harold P. Foley, Master........................
57.26
Dean Scott, Senior Warden
Edward W. DeLuca, Past Master
Exeter ..............................No. 124 .Stanley L. Cosart. Master...................
32.90
Barney L. Griffis, Senior Warden
Holtville ..........................No. 425 .... Samud W. Reiman, Master.......................... 86.66
Merle A. Blair, Senior Warden
Henry T. Miller. Past Master
Midway ..........................No. 426 ... Robert A. Green. Jr .. Senior W arden....
41.58
Donald C. Blakeney, Junior Ward en
Robert A. Smith, Past Master
Chino Valley ..................No. 427 Jack C. Behringer. Senior \Varden..
61.04
W:iyne 'vV. Norman, Junior Warden
Robert \V. C. Storms, Past Master
San D imas ......................No. 428 .... Ha rry Herod, Senior Warden.............
60.34
Pittsburg ........................No. 429 .... Ralph Lopez, Master...................................... 5.60
Jimmie L. Martin, Junior Warden
W . R;ilph Anderson, P.M. and Inspector....
5.60
John C harles Brown, Past Master
McCloud ........................No. 430... Alvo Sharrah, Junior Warden.............
40.32
Percy W. Lindt, P.M. and Inspector............ 37.94
Phil N. Myers, Past Gr. Master........ ... ...... 56.42
M. C. Gcrlicher, Past Master
Alpha ..............................No. 131 . \iValt('r A . Horne. Master
John L. Van Winkle. Senior W arden
Delbert Arnett, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Lloyd N. Mason. Past Master
Joseph B. Trimeloni, Past Master
Hammonton ....................No. 433 .... )<ick D. Myers, Master.............. .... ............. 16.94
Wayne A . Dahling, P.M. a nd Inspector...... 16.52
Theodore F. Tower, Past Master
Maricopa ---····-················No. 43'1 ... Myron V . Williams, Senior Warden.......... 42.56
Fairmount ........................ No. 435 ... Alexil ndcr P. Labernadie. Master
\Villiam W . Kiesow, Senior Warden
Edward G. Freeman, Junio r \!Varden
Ivan Crase, Past Master
Pieter A . de Vries, Past Master
Willia m P. Olson, Past Master
Edward R. Pootcl, Past Master
William H. Scott, Past Master
Joseph A. Teresi. Past Master
Dee Larry West. Past Master
Claremont ........................ No. 436 .... Roger E . Garrison. Senior Warden.. ............ 61.46
Ge<>rge D. Lober, P .M. and Inspector.......... 61.46
Lancaster ··-····················No. 437.... A. / · Warkentinc, Master...................... .. ...... 52.50
A . . McCourtney. Senior Warden................ 54.18
James E. Bacon, P.M. and Inspector.. ......... 52.50
A. C. Cobb. Past M aster
William D. Knight, Past Master.................. 52.50
Vernon D. Ward, Past Master

454
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. ol Lod11e

Repreo<ntativco

455

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileaae AD°""td

Tyrian -·-------·········-------··---No. 439 Chas. J. Shaefer, Junior Warden .....·-···-·-----·-- 10.SO
Standard -·········-·····-·---··--·No. "10 .... Arthur M. T om, Master
Maurice Cherry, Past Master
Coronado ·········--·······------No. 441 .... Edgar B. Beck, Master................... ............... .. 76.72
Curtis W. Allen, Senior W ard rn
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master
Donald W . Stubbs. P ast Master
Blackmer ----·········-------······No. 44 2.... Jesse L. Karr, Jr., Master............................. . 73.0S
Frank R. Porath, Past Master
George A. Gray, Past M aster
Henry M. Kirkland, Past Master
Schofield ············---·----------No. 4i3.... Solomon P. Q. Chung , Master. .............
338.19
Robert A. Berg man, Senior Warden
Carpinteria .................__ No. 414.... R. Samuel Pearson, Senior Warden.... .......... 48.86
Wilshire ······-------------······No. 445.... Alfred T. Gruening. M aster............................ 56.42
Andrew M. Dithridge, Senior Warden
H arlan P. Huebner. Junior W a rd en
Frederick E. Clark, P.M. and Inspector...... 56.42
La Puente ... ·-·-·-·-·------------No. 446.... Eugene H arp, S enior Warden...... ................. 59.22
Jack Roberts, Junior Ward<'n
Torrnnce .......................... No. 447....Wayne S. Larson, Master.............. ................ 59.22
Ernest G. Maloy. Senior Warden
Dale T. Wands, Junior Warden
Leonard D . Babcock, P.M. and Inspector...... 59.22
Raymond 0. Lougee, Past Master
Mount Diablo ................No. H 8.... Hugh B. Herring. Master................................
4.34
James L. Carrier, Senior \Varden
H arry E. Thornsberry, Junior Warden
V erne W . Hendrix, Assista nt
Grand Secretary
George C. Jo hnson, Past Master
Park ................................ No. 449 .... William G. Mena ry, Jr., M ns ter
\Villiam S. Crowell, Sr .. Junior Warden
Robert M . Montgomery, P.M. and Inspector
Reginald Duden, Past Master
John Ferguson, Past Master
Robert K. H uppert, Past Master
Glenn VI. Maynard, Past Master
Van Nuys ·····-------·---------·-No. 450 ....William H. Pettes, Master.............................. 54.32
Robert W. Hart, Senior Warden
H arvey A. H enry, Jr. , Jun ior Warden
H arold S. Morrison, P .M . a nd Inspector.... 54.32
Ra lph W . Pettes, Past Master
Montebello ...................... No. 451....Leonard E. Jones. Mastt>r......... ..........
57.10
LeRoy F . Muller, Senior W arden
Donald R. Johansen, Junior \11/ardm
Frank L. Sutliff, P.M. and Inspector
56.42
Robert R. Beard. Past Master
Robert L. Karnes. Past Master
Bert Kearney, Past Master
San Pasqual .................... No. 452 .... George T . Wainscott, Master............ ........ 57.51
Edward Kaminski. Jr .. Senior \!Varden
Ross H . Ritt!Jers. Past Master
Donald G. White, Past Ma ster
Crock('r ·····--···········----------No. 454.... Harold E. Heisch. Master
Arthur J. Huelse, Senior W ardrn
Predcrick R. Schroeder, Junior \ Va rden
Russell M . Bass, Past Master
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Leslle 0 . Ginsberg, Past Master
Robert J. Keith. Past Master

Name of lodae

No. of Lodse

Repreo<ntativu

Miluse J\llo-d

Vincent P. McMurdo. Past Master
Arthur H. Peterson, Past Master
Edward E. Smith, Past M'l.ster
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ·····-···-·-·····No. 155.... James T. Farr, Master
John H . Cra fts, Senior Warden
Adolph P. Bilay, Past Master
Herbert H. Eling, Past Master
William M. Lustenberger, Past M aster
Ramona - ·--···-·-·······No. 157.... Arvid H. Christian, M aster............................
Oliver R. Riggs, Senior Warden
Robert G. Jamieson, Junior \!Varden
Arnold G. Robertson, P .M . and Inspector....
WilUam A. Willson, Past Master
Henry S. Orme................No. -458.... Nicholas Peters, Master..................................
Charles D. Amidon, Senior W ardcn
H arold L. Karges, Junior Warden
Alfred J. NC1vin, P .M. and Inspector............
C. Edward Beaumont, Past Master
Norman C. McMahan. Past Master
Riverbank ........................No. 159.... Not Represented
Mount Oso .................- ...No. 160.... 0kla Primm, Senior Warden..........................
Argonaut ---······----··-·--·--No. 461-... Winfred C. Holden. Master
Donald Y. Beaver, Senior Warden
Jack C. Lewellen, Junior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, l?.M. and Inspector
Hoadley_Jobnson, Sr .. Past Master
Ray P. Knox, Past Master
Arthur H. Schroeder, Past Master
Anthony T. Sola, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Carl Walter, Past Master
Paul Revere ··--··-----------No. 462 .... Peter Garabedian, Master
•
George A. Gayner. Senior Warden
Chester R. Harris. Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Lowell H. Beckendorf. Past Master
Abe B. Epstein, Past Master
Perry Lawson, Past M aster
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Thomas W. S . Wu, Past Master
Gus L. Zeidler, Past Master
Morgan Hill ....................No. 463 .... Patrick B. Berry, Senior Wa rden..................
Edwin P. Johnson, Sr .. Past ~faster
Alta Vista ........................No. 464 .... George M. Carroll. Master
M . Sam Lombardo, Junior Warden
Samuel G. Clark, P .M. and Inspector
William Butcher, Past Master
William E. Culver, Past Master
Dwight N. Deane. Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Arthur E. Hewit, Past Master
Center ..............................No. 465 .... George Francis Root. Senior Warden..........
Alfred Helmuth. Junior Warden
Sa muel E. Dollar. P.M. and Inspector..........
L. B. Anderson, P ast Master
Clarence N. Johnson, Past Master

57.5-4
57.54
56.42
56.42

8.68

9.66

25.62
25.62

456
Xame of Lod~e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

457

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allo~d

Libertas ..........................No. 466 ... William F. Bartenstein, Master.
10.46
Frederick R. Brown, Senior Warden
J. Onil Gre-goire, Junior Warden
Robert J. Myers. Past Master
Raymond G. Taylor, Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Master
Culver City .................... No. ·167.... Bernard D. Sorenson, Senior Warden......... 56.42
E. Dale Peck, Past Master
Rockridge ··----·-·-··--··--------No. 468 .. .Charles R. Goff, Master
James W. Kerins, Senior Warden
Gerald E. \Varburton, Junior Warden
Harry M. Frostholm, Past Master
Yorha Lind<J .................. No. 469 . ..Roy W. Wagoner, Senior Warden............. 60.62
George H. Lowe, Past Master
Lincoln ...........................No. 470 ... Louis B. Bacigalupi, Master
Arthur D. Eng, Senior Warden
Louis Manis, Junior Warden
C arlton H. Rothblum, P.M. and Inspector
Harry Geballc, Past Master
Melville P. Prince, Past Master
Delta ................................No. 471. .. Kenneth B. Harman, Master....... .................. 10.92
John Reddick, Junior Warden
Denzil D. Kitchens, P.M. and Inspector........ 10.08
George W. Graffis, Past Master
Maui ................................ No. 172....Wynne C. Day, Master...............
372.19
John MacFarlane, Senior \:Varden
Robert E. Doe, Junior Warden
William E. Foster, P.M. and Inspec tor. ..
372.19
Norman E. Weight, Past Master
Blythe .............................. No. 173.... Anthony E. Beechey, Senior Warden............ 88.06
America -·----------··--·---------No. 475 ....John B. Ferree, Master............. . ..... .
56.12
Paul R. Dillon, Senior Warden
Richard A. Kelsey. Junior Warde n
L. Roy Gallaway, Past Master
Coachella ........................ No. 476 ... Niles D. Hmvell, Master. .................. ___ ., .
7-1.90
Rodney D. Pillow, Senior Warden
Guinn H. Britton, Junior Warden
Rewell E. Carlton, P.M. and Inspector.
75.32
Robert K. Hager, Past Master
Friend F. V/ilson, Past Master
Temblor -·····-·-··--····--------·No. 477.... Willard E. Bridge, Elected Repr~sentGtive.... 40.88
C. Earl Gwin, P.M. and Inspector................ 42.56
Thousand Ociks -·---·-···-·--No. 4i8.... John C. Pelkey, Master
Marion E. Collins, Senior Warden
Donald C. Thompson, Junior Warden
Kenneth R. Evans, Past Master
Harold F. Hexner, Past Master
Robert H. Stitt, Past Master
Orman T. Stone. Sr., Past Master
Golden Rule ....................No. 479.... Rowan \:V. Scott. Master.................
7.00
Lloyd G. Benjamin, Senior Warden
Emile \V. Roggy. Junior Warden
Stanley C. Drysdale, Past Master
J. Alfred F isher, Past Master
John S. Hasen, Past Master
Leonard VI. Scott, Past Master
Edwin C. Van de M ark, Past M aster
Fellowship ...................... No. 180.... Walter T. Pinska, Master
Leverett J. Bishop, Senior Ward<:>n

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Rcpresentatiw•

Mileage Allowed

Mt. Dav idson ..................No. 481.... Pa ul V irgil Grace, M aster
James D avid N elson. Senior Warden
Elwood Francis Pierce, Junior Ward en
Daniel D . Rowlands, P.M. and Inspector
Walter H . D aily, Past Master
Lauren t A. Loustau, Past M aster
Carl P. McCarthy, Past Mas ter
Alfred H. Nicoll , Past Master _________ _
Clarence F . Smith ............ No. 4 82 .... Maurice E. LeBlanc, Master. ..........
V ictor R. Preston, Senior Warden
H owa rd F. Hiltabidel. P.M.
\Villiam J. Mason, Past Master
Bell ---·----··---···---·-------··-···-No. 483 ... Joseph A. H ochwa rter, Master ....... .
Richard E. Perry, Senior Warden
Gene M . O 'Brien. Junior Warden
James D. Kelso, P.M. and Inspector
H arold C. Comaford, Past Master
Prcd F. Elliott, P ast Master
Albert P ike ...................... No. 484 ...Gus S. Russel. Senior Warden... .
John H. T enney, Junior Warden
Robert A. Manning, Past Master
Chowchilla ......................No. 485 .... Joseph E . Willis, Sen ior Warden__ _
Eli E. M usick, Past M aster
Caledonia ---···---···---·---·----No. 486.... \Villiam C. Corse. M aster.......................... .. .
\:Villiam D. Adams, Senior Warden
\Villiam W. Shugart, P .M. and I nspector.. ..
Vallejo ............................No. 487.... John H. Allison, Master.. ............................... .
H ershell Richardson, S enior Warden
Paul M . A llen, Jr .. Junior Warden
Frederic B. Hall, Past Master
Bert Menge, Past Master
George E . Rosen, Past Master
Patterson ........................No. 188....Ray mond D. Morgan, Senior W arden ......... .
Kenneth \V. Ryan. Junior \Varden
East Bay .......................... No. 4 89 .... Harry E . Betts, Master
Claude R. MacKay, Senior Wa rden
Lars B. O lander, Jun ior Warden
Roy H. Parkinson, Past Master
John A. Sobey, Past Master
Carl M. T homsen, Past Master
Corcoran ..........................No. 490 .... N ot Represented
Woodstock ......................No. 4 91.. .. George S. Sleeman, Master
John E . Spehar, Junior Warden
Carl R. Ramsey. P.M. and Inspecto r
Alvin A. Horwcg e, Past Master
Chester L. Jack, Past Master
George A. Jurgens, P ast M aster
R. Emmett O 'Brien. Past Moster
M. Allen Powers, P ast M aster
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garv anza ........................No. 492 .... Predcrick C. Wilson, Senior Warden
Blair B. Bever, Junior Warden
George E. Harrison, P.M. and Inspector. .....
James L. Jones, Past Mas ter
David C . Lee, Past Master
Atascadero ......................No. 493....P rcd C. H ess, Elec ted Represent ative
Acorn ..............................No. 191 ... .Alv in \V. Pressler, Master
Mari on H. Berrie, Senior Warden
Chester D . Guthrie, Junior W arden
E. Lloyd Hanson, P .M . and Inspector

4 .90

56.12

58.10
58. 10

56.42
20.44
40.46
40.46
1.34

12.71

56.12
56.12
29.96

458
N•me of Lodi:<

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

459

R.cprucn tativc:t

Ralph Adams, Past Master
Howard L. McCarthy, Past Master
Earl Patterson. Jr., Past Master
George P. Silliman. Past Master
Richard L. Stephenson. Past Master
Lebanon ........•.................No. 495 .... Louis Rubin. Master
Alden E. Adolph, Jr., Senior Warden
F. Armand Magid, Junior Warden
Mervin J. Braunstein, Past Master
Samuel Hodes, Past Master
Richard Krug, Past Master
Monroe I. Markuse. Past Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Premont ..........................No. 497.... Robert E. Crawford, Master
Da vid R. Rodger, Senior Warden
Edward Berton. Junior Warden
Leon V. Rose, Past Master
Cyrus L. Rossi, Past Master
Troyce M. Severe, Past Master
Stockton ..........................No. 498 .... Ezra Judson Willett, Master.. ....................... . 10.92
Harold B. Weed, Past Master
Capital City ....................No. 499.... Lcwis 0. Goodnow, Master ............................ 12.04
Clyde M . Cole, Junior Warden
Raymond A. Ebbage, Past Master
Carl M. Richards. Past Master
Robert C. Woodall. Past Master
Roosevelt ........................ No. 500.... Alfred J. Musetti , Master
Edward L. Schaffer, Senior Warden
Ernest J. Armando, Past Master
Harold M. Ballengee. Past Master
Camillo W. Papina, Past Master
Westwood ......................No. 501.... Ralph E. \.Varw ick, Master ........................... . 31.86
Ronald 8. McClish, Senior Warden
Wayne D. Gleason. Past Master
Ha rbor ............................No. 502 ....Mahon Payne, Master
Rual W. Murray. Senior \Varden
James D. F. Smith, Junior Warden
H arry L. M uller, P .M . and Inspector
Lawrence H . Brewster, Past Master
Charles E. McCray. Past Master
Fred H. Mathews. P ast Master
Charles L. Stanley, Past Master
John E. Thurbon. Past Master
Point ................................No. 503 .... Ervin L. \¥oodruti, Senior Warden
E. Reuben Ostby. Junior Warden
Oren W. Bi£1ham, Past Master
Seaside ....- .....................No. 504.... Robcrt E. Center. Master............................... . 60.06
Benj . P. Grogger, Sr., Senior Warden
Otto A. Vogel. Junior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower. P.M. and Inspector...... 60.06
Rodney H. Davis, Past Master
Everett Houser, Past Master .......................... 60.06
Arthur R. Moberg, Jr., Past Master
Silver Cord ....................No. 505 .... Arthur B. Rockhold. Master............................ 60.90
Austin 0. Hicks, Senior Warden
Arthur B. Pilant, Junior Warden
Thomas \V. Thurman, Past Master
Mowit Olive ..................No. 506.... Arthur A. Neuser. Master.............................. 56.42
Martin P. Berne, Senior Warden
George H. Field. Junior Warden
Harry Beal, Past Master
Lester J. Nelson, Past Master
Harold L. Palmer, Past Master

N•me of lod11e

No. of Lod1e

RcprcM:ntotivu

Mile1ae Allowed

El Segundo ......................No. 507.... James E . Dobbs. Senior \Varden.................... 57.26
Herschel A. W ilson, Junior Warden
Robert J. Lehman, Past Master
Earl D. Tramblie. Past Master
Joppa ..............................No. 508 .... Bill E. Thomas, Junior Warden...................... 29.40
Benjamin Franklin ..........No. 509.... Robert A. Cross, Master.................................. 56.42
Lewis Miller, Junio r Warden
Morris J. McCauley. Past Master
Cupertino ........................ No. 510....George Graham, Master.................................. 6.30
Daniel W. Waters, Senior \'Varden
Walter W. Ellett, Junior Warden
7.00
Lawrence E. Crow, P.M. and Inspector........
Sunnyvale ...............___No. 51 1.... P. Edison Noland, Senior Warden................ 5.7i
Homer Ray D uke, Junior Warden
Hermann L. Horn, Past Master
Palms ..............................No. 512.... John A. McCuish. Master................................ 56.12
l\,1yron L. Dennis, Senior Warden
William S. Keily, Past Master
Lloyd H. Shelton. Past Master
Cahuenga ........................No. 513.... Harold D . Winn, Master................................ 55.ii
William L. Farrow, Senior Warden
ph Barbera, )W1ior Warden
hn W . Baker. Past Master
n H. La Grange, Past Master
Marvin L. Lynch, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney. Past Master
Argonne ..........................No. 514 ... .Theodore J. McCann, Master
Herbert Loo, Senior Warden
Arthur W. D alrymple, Junior Warden
Edwin A . Gumbinger, Past Master
Clyde D. Lightbody, Past Master
C. Jefferson Sly, Past Master
C yril L. Thornton. Past Master
Vermont Square ............No. 515 .... Clyde F. White, Master.................................. 58.10
Leo J. Fleming, Senior Warden
•
Taft .................................. No. 516 .... Lawrence N. Haas, Jwiior Warden.............. 41.58
Mount V ernon ................No, 517 .... Matthcw G. Tomasello, Master
Sergio V . Doninelli, Junior Warden
Richard P. Fletcher, Past Master
George E. Payne. Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
Alfred Stettler, Past Master
Ernest D. Wade. Past Master
La Jolla ............................No. 518.... Willard V. Markey, Master............................ 72.38
Vernon V. Aiman, Senior Warden
H. H. Ralph Aiman, P.M. and Inspector...... 72.38
Robert B. Watts, Past Master........................ 72.38
Euclid ..............................No. 519 ... H. Lon Henry. Sen ior \Varden...................... 56.12
Richard P. Burney, Junior Warden
John D. Andrews, Past Master
Percy M . Bezanson, Past Master
Roy 0. Bowditch, Past Master
Lynn W. Gardener, Past Master
Ionic ................................No. 520.... Harold H . Strauss, Master.............................. 56.12
Irving Brody. Senior Warden
Leo Levine, Past Master
Piedmont ........................No. 521.. .. John W. N elson, Master
David M. Day. Senior Warden
Gilbert M. Harns, Jwiior Warden
Richard H. Chamberlain, Past Master
Gail H . David, Past Master

~

460
Na me of Lodge

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

P ROC EEOINGS O F THE
No. of Lod¥e

Rcpresenutiwo

Mile •~< AU~

Sunrise -·························-·No. 522 .. .. Albcrt A. Muske. Master.................. .. .......... 57.51
Ray 0. Weymouth, Past Master
Bd!Aowcr ......................-.No. 523 .... Arthur W. Powell, Jr .. Senior Warden... ... . 58.80
Don<ild G. Lusk. Junior W a rden
Catalina Island .............. No. 524.. .. Rowland E. Morris, Master ................ .
64.68
George Washington ...... No. 525 ....Carl \ V. \Villrr, Master
Walter Sa insbury, Senior Warden
Lloyd Moya. Junior Warden
Clyde Bowen, Past Master
John T. Buchanan, Past Master
Bay City .......................... No. 526 .... Bernard I. Reinherz. Ma ster
John M. Mabel. Senior Warden
Max Kaplan. Junior \Varden
Thomas A. Dethlefsen, Past Master
Covenant ........................ No. 527 .... Lawrence A . Flint, Junior Warden ............... 57.96
Everett Todd, Post Master
56.42
B~vcrly Hills ..................No. 5211 .... Theodore R. Hohl. Master. ............ .. ..
Michoel L. Monahan. Senior Warden
Berry L. Griffin. Jr., Junior \Varden
Frank Harwell. Jr.. Past Grand Master.......... 56.42
Joe Bookman, Pa st Master
C. Earl Crane. Past Master
Jack Crawford. Past Master
Frederick A. Fox. Past Master
56.42
Loyalty ............................No. 529 ... Morton T oorcdinan, Master....
Oscar Shepard, Senior Warden
Edgar V. Stewart. Jr.. Past Grand Master.... 56.12
Arthur Linsk, P .M. and Inspector.................. 56.12
Lloyd P. Bass. Past Master
Benjamin Susman, Past Master.......
51.32
25.62
Sun Garden ....................No. 530.... Dcuris R. Clack. Senior Warden
Dec B. Brewer, Junior Warden
Herbrrt R. H<:1 rgrnve, P.M. a nd Inspector.... 25.62
Leonard H. Moller, Past Master
LeRoy Stubblefield, Past Master
Akx andria ...................... No. 531.. .. Phillip W a rda, Master
Arthur J. Martin, Senior W a rden
Aaron A. Arbog ast, Past M aster
Stewart Harry Hook, Past M aster
Smyrna ............................No. 532 .... Corbett P ierce, Senior Warden...................... 13.16
60.20
Azure ..............................No. 533....Warren A. Roke, Master....................
H arold W . Wensel. Senior \Va rden
Milton P . Allen, Junior Warden
Layton S. C onover, Past Master
Forest Hill ...................... No. 534 ... Juli<in H. L. W o lfsohn, M aster
John T. Baxter, Senior \.Vard en
Roy E. Clark. Junior \.Varden
James N. Rae, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ...... No. 535 .... Mathew A . Saari. Junior Warden....... .......... 56.12
\.Yendell L. Goodwin. P.M . and Inspecto r.. . 58.52
Edv:ard J. Blickfe ld t, Past Master
Roland W . Snow, Past M aster
56.42
Uto;iia .............................. No. 537.... Jack H. Karr, Master ........ ...................... .
Glen A. Slaten. Se.nior \.Varden
Da vid H . Rose nberger, Junior W arden
F. Arleig h Frazier. Past Master
V erne V. Goode. Pa st Master
Ascot ................................ No. 538.... Walton H . Whitaker, Senior Warden.......... 58.38
James H. Smith, Junior Warden
Belvedere ........................No. 539 .... Benjamin 0 . Kondo, Senior Warden............ 57.54

Name of Lodge

No . o( Lodge

Re pru<ntativee

461
M ilea2c Allowed

Q ueen Beach .................. No. 540 .... Kay C. Crill, Maste r........................ ............... 60.06
Francis C. Tanner, Senior Warden
Marvel Fairchild, Past Master
Fred S. J. Hancock, Past Master
Forest L. Ray, Past Master
Henry Morse St('phens.. No. 541 .... Marvin D . Martin, Master
Edwin R. Rowe, Senior Warden
C. Jo hn Bellman, Jr., Junior Warden
C. M . Davis. Past Master
Carlisle D . Nielsen, Past Ma ster
Robert L. Richardson. Pa st Master
Richard M. Schulze. Past Master
Jack G . Smith, Past Master
54.60
North Hollywood .......... No. 542... Dona ld W. Maltby, Master ....... . ....... .
C harles H . Smith, Senior Warden
Robert I. Allen, Junior Warden
54.04
Reginald Bunce, P .M. and ln~-pe cto r .
Carey W . Burch, Past Master
J. Glen Gladson, Past Ma; ter
Clarence A. Ross. Past Master
60.06
Signa l ..............................No. 543 .. . Myron L. Macy. Master ............... ..
Herman C. Rutter, Senior \.Varden
Glenda!(' ..........................No. 544.... John D . Johnson, Master............................ .... 56.00
Hove y Cox, Jr., Senior Warden
Walter J. Grauer. Junior Warden
Kenneth L. Truex. Past Master
Veritas-Jonathan ............ No. 545 .. James M. Coates, M aster
Theodore L. Knudson, S('nior W arden
W illiam F . Poynter. P .M. and Inspector
Sam Brown. Past Master
Leong G. Fong. Pcist M;:ister
\Valter G. F urniss, Past Master
David D . Jewell. Past M<ister
Irving J. Kohnke. Past Master
Vvashington I. Kohnke, Past M aster
Oscar W. N orman, Past Master
57.54
San G11briel ....................No. 546 F.. Ea rl \ Vheeler, Senior \ Varden .
... Robert D. Jon es. Junior \Varden
58.38
Arcadia ............................No. 5•1 i . . \Vi!liam A. Elliott. M aster .............
T . Scott Swirles, Junio r W arden
\ ViJli<iill N. Bowie, Jr., Past Master
Edwa rd C. ?'vlurfett, Past Ma ster
56.84
Triangle .......................... No. 543.... Murray E . C ooke, Master .......... .
H erbert W. Seitz. Senior Warden
X . Garland Young, Junior Warde n
Justice ..............................No. 5'19 .Re x L. Wimer. Mnstcr
Sta nford Fong. Senior Warden
Oscar T. Johnson, Junior Ward en
William W. Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke. Past Master
Milton F. Conklin. Past Master
\\lillia m R. Cruickshank, Past Ma ster
George J. Hucks. Past Master
John R. Peebles. Past Master
Karl D . S mith, Past Master
Lakcshore ........................ No. 55 1.. .. Nicho las E. Drulcy. Jr.. Maste r
George S. Trimhle, Junior W arden
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Lee B. Ferg uson. Past Master
Edward L. Land, Past Mastoer

462
Name of Lodae

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodg<

Rcpreatntativa

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileo1e AllOWe.t

Semper Virens ................No. 552 .... La Mone Call, Senio r Warden ..................._. 39.76
Alexander Duncan, P.M. and Inspector........ 39.76
James C. Tario, Past Master
Educator ..........................No. 554.... 0mer L. Cotterell, Master
Jean F. Aeschlimann, Senior Warden
Gilbert R. Rankin, Junior Warden
Emmett Bundy, Past Master
Francis D. DeLong, Past Master
White Pine ....................No. 555.... Not Represented
Fairfax ............................No. 556.... Curt F. Waldhaus, Master
Frank Larsen, Senior Warden
Vernon V. Casey, Junior Warden
Frank B. Peebles, Past Master
Robert A . Smallman, Past Master
Hermosa ........................_No. 557.... Robert D. Fa ulkner, Senior \Varden.............. 575t
Point Firmin ....................No. 558 .... H ubert L. Kaltenbach, Master........................ 60.20
Lewis A. Samson, Senior Warden
James J. Nash, Jr., Past Master
Walter H. Sawyer. Past Master
Craftsmen ·····-·················No. 559.... George W. Humphreys. Master.................... 56.42
William H. Foley, Senior Warden
Frank L. Richards, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.42
Earle W. Newton, Past Master
Plymouth ........................No. 560.... Raymond W. James, Master
Maurice M. Bolin, Senior Warden
Boyce H. Vincent, Junior Warden
Edward H . Siems, Grand Secretary
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Willis H. Gillette, Past Master
East San Diego.............. No. 561....H. L. Gudmundson, Senior W arden.............. 73.08
James W . Wheeler, Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Pyramid ..........................No. 562 .... Robert Vv. Newell. Master
Edward F. Burke, Senior Warden
Kenneth 0. Mossor, Junior Warden
Chester H . N ewell, Past Master
South Park ......................No. 563....Troy B. Gaddy. M aster...................... ...
56.42
George E. Agajani;in, Senior Warden
Ivan H. Stewart, Junior Warden
\.Villiam Bottorff, P.M. and Inspector............ 58.38
Lawrence B. Black, P ast Master
Max F . Vail, Past Master
Foothill ............................No. 564.... John C. Sterne. Master
Robert D. Olsen. Senior Warden
Harry H. Brechtel. Junior Warden
W. B. Newton, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
West Adams .................. No. 565 .... Eugene V . Mora n. Senior W a rden...
56.42
Herman W . Johnson, Junior W arden
Don E. Worsham, Past Master
James A. Garfleld............No. 566.... F rancis H . Lore, Master.................. .... ............ 56.42
Howard P. Stassforth, Jr., Senior Warden
Lorry S. Schottke, Junior Warden
C lay Robbins, Past Master
Searchlight ......................No. 567.... Frank Davis. Master.................. .....
60.06
Fred C . Turbyflll, Senior Warden
Orio R. P eugh, Past Master
Park Boulevard ..............No. 568 .... Clifford P. Troelsen, Master
Mike S . Zadorkin, Junior Warden
Don E. Berry, Past Master................. ..
13.16
Llovd M. Bradford, Past Master

Nam• of Lod1e

N~.

<>f Lod1e

463

Repreacntatl vu

James E . Hammond. Past Master
Willis V. McBeth. Past Master
William H. Van Cleave, Past Master
Chateau T hierry ............No. 569 .... Joseph L. Culp, Master
W alter C. Ryan, Senior Warden
Charles V . Tucker. Junior Warden
H arold D. Weber, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570.... Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Jo hn Kinces, Past Master
Louis H. Strohecker, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck........ N o. 571.. .. Robert H. T yler. Master
Barno Hordos III . Senior Warden
Herbert L. Fong, Junior \Varden
E lbert 'vV. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer
H erbert H . Hobson, P.M. and Inspector
Ed W. Batman, Past Master
Joseph A . Plvernetz, Past Master
torin A . White, Past Master
James Madison ..............No. 572 .... W illiam F. Zimmerman, Master .... ........... .
David A. Zeiders, Senior Warden
Ray Smith, P.M. and Inspector......................
H illcrest ..........................No. 573 ....Edward A. Byrne, Master
Ewing W. Lawrence, Senior Warden
S. W. Hackett... ............. No. 574 ....Merle G . Krebs, Master .. ....................... ......
John \V. F ields, Senior Warden
lra E. Strahl. Junior W arden
Norman E. Hale, Past Master
William 0. King, Past Master
Joseph H . Wagner, Past Master
Fort Crook ......................No. 575 .... Earl L. McClure. Master ................................
Earl N. Denny . Senior Warden
Edgar R. Kent. Junior Warden
Reginald Reynolds. P.M . and Inspector ....... .
El Cajon Valley .............. No. 576 .... Tames Allen Davis, M aster ...................... ........
James I. Dunn, Senior Warden
Charles '"C'' Brassell, Jr., Junior Warden
.de
Sunnysl ··············-·········No 577.... Wilford W . Cogar. Mast4"r........................... .
·
Earl G. Morgan, Junior Warde_n
Louis H. Mahler, P.M. and Inspector............
Jo hn A. Low, Past Master
John S. W alters, Past Master
Progressive ....................No. 578.... Paul S. Bartholomew. Master .. ..................
Louis C. Thomson. Jr.. Senior Warden
V incent V. Lake, Junior Warden
Maurice E . C alfee, Past Master
Ralph A. Larson. Past M aster
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller. Past Master
George M. Sturgis. Past Master
Warren G. Harding ........ No. 579.... Louis Chapo, Master........................................
Frank W. Beardsley. Senior Warden
Clifton G. Adams, junior Warden
Conrad E. Herrmann, P ast Master
Leslie Smith. Past Master
Santa Marla ....................No. 580 .... Barney H. Mitchell, Senio r Warden............ .
R ichard N. Younkins, Junio r Warden
Zenas Y. Coleman. Past Master
William C. Leach, Past Master
Security .............- -......No. 58 I .... Tim McCown. Senior Warden....................... .
Raymond F. Freeman, Junior Warden
Leonard T. Jenkins, Past Master

56:42
58.38
73.08

40. 18
40. 18
74.48
56.42

56.42
56.42

12.46

73.78

'40.46

464
Name of ln~ ire

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDING S OF THE
N o. of lodge

Repru entativ..

Mitea1e .l\llo....t

Oran W. P;ilmer, Past Master
Kenneth P. Sward . Past Ma~t e r
Richard C. \Villia ms, Past Master
Senior W<irden.................. 63.28
Rial to .............................. No. 582.... Brthel 0. B;i ylor,on. Junior Warde n
Edwin A. Robins
James 1-1. \Veller , P.M. and Inspec tor.. ........ 63.28
Johnston. Jr., Senior W ilrden........ 38.64
\Va ~co ............................ No. 5R3 ___l;im"~ \V.
Jack B. Hammons. Junior Warden
Fred Chas. Pri tschkc, P .M. and Inspec tor____ 38.6i
, Jr.. Senior \Varde n ... ..... 56.42
Hardin g ............ .............. No. 584 ... W arren S. Pitman , Junior Warden
\Villia m F. Ramey
Master ........... .. ............ ... 56.42
Manch ester ......................No. 585.... Lloyd M. C oultrr.
John N. O>iden. Senior Warde n
Arthur 0. Rollins, Junior Wardr n
Ralph C. Fergus on. Past Master
Floyd E. Fowler , Past Master
Raymo nd F . Van Fossen. Past Master
60.90
N. Bosworth, Mast!'r . .. .
\.urt
..
586
No.
.....
...........
Garden G row
\;\Tillia m R. L<ingdon, Senior W arden
Marvin F. Reno. Junior \Varde n
W. W. Reybu rn, Past Master
nedel. Master. ............ ..... .... 56.42
V;:illey Forg' ..................No. 587 .... Robert G. Hoche , Senior W arden
Donald H . Martin
Sh irley L. Thoma s, Junior Warden
Charles S. Barrett, Past Master
F. Chow Chan, Past Master ............ ........... .... 56.42
H;:irold L. Germa n. Past M aster
J. Ben Goodr ich. P ;ist Milster
l ames M. Maddock, P11st Master
l<oy M. Robbins. Past Master
Mauric r M. McKenzie, Master............ ...... .... 56.41
....
588
No.
............
............
Sereno
El
Melvin H . Merrit t, Senior Warde n......... ....... 56.42
Lloyd D. Hanselman. P.M. <ind Inspect or.... 56.J 4
William 0 . Phegley, Pnst Master
372.19
Senior Warden .
Kau<ii ..............................N o. 589.... Geora t' I. Crow ell.
........ 61.0i
arden..
W
Senior
alsem.
D
Van
.
H
Paul
....
590
o.
N
....
Compa ss ......................
R. B. Collins, Junior W arden
Philip S. Hunt, P .M . and Inspec tor....... ....... 61.04
R. Ro y 80\vma n, Past Master
John Weigle . Past Master
Warde n........................ 11.90
Escalo n ........... .................No. 591.. .. Lloyd Dahlin, S!'nior
Leonard Vieira, Junior Warde n
Carl T. Miller, Past r-.faster
...................... .............. 54.46
Tujung a ..........................No. 592.... Arthur \Verbe, Master
Don H. Butt. Junior W arden
. Master ....................... ........ 60.06
A ll States ........................No. 593.... Genl' C. G regory r. Senior Warde n
H . Donald Conno
Mark V. Dearth . Junior Warde n
Lawren ce J. McEld owncy. P ast Master
C. Lee Prcnni ngcr. Past Master
Edward M . Rudd, Past Master
Kirby C . Serles, Past Master
. Master ............... ....... _______ 60.06
Se rv ice ............ ................No. 594.... lames B. Graham
Ra lph B. Saffle. Senior Warde n
F.. Ch ::i rks Lambe rson. Junior Warde n
Charle s J. W entz, P .M. and Inspec tor.......... 60.06
Ralph P. Ruther ford, Past M aster
Senior W arden................. 56.42
Alexander Gr<iham Be!LNo. 595 .... Fred M. Groves . t. Senio r W a rden................ 57:40
Garret
H.
Robert
....
596
Guardi an ....................... .No.
Daniel B. Erwin, Past Master
Thomas H. Mowe ry, Past Master

N ame of Lodge

N o. of Lodge

Repreaentotives

465
Mileage Allowed

Jr .. Senior W arden ............ 338.19
Pearl Harbor ............ ......No. 598 .... Jamrs Eual Kerr. Master...... ....... .................... 57.51
Heine,
T.
Alfred
....
599
No.
.
...........
............
Carme lita
Eugene E. Wilkin son. Senior \Varden
C. C ecil Davis. Past Master
Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
57.40
r, Milster.. ..... ......
Lynwo od ........................ No. 600. .. George L. Coove
Charle s J<icobi, Sr. , Senior \Varde n
Arthur R. \;\Tilmeth, Junior Warden
Milton E. Amma nn, Past Master
Robert C. Eulbcrg, Past Master
Edwnr d M. Stitz. Past Master
Master .... -------- . ..... .......... 35.00
Grizzly ............................ No. 6() 1.__ Robert J. Cetta,
55.H
Senior W arden.
Melrose ............................ No. 602 .... Lf.'sl ie Vincen t And<i. rff, Junior W arden
Benjamin L. Ho ltzendo
Thoma s J. McKimson, P .M. and Inspector... 56.42
Edwin C. T . Church , Past Master
George H. Himes, Past Master
G. Emle O utram, Past Master
on, Master
Dimon d ............................ No. 603 .GeorS')e W. Anders Senior W arden
Lloyd M. Cowan , Jr.,
Leema n C. Kennedy, Junior \Varde n
Wamm J. Blomseth. Senior G rand Dc;icon
Larry C . Basker . P.M. a nd lnspec to:
\Vayn e Wiswe ll. Jr .. Past Master
Willar d W. Woode n, Pust Master
60.90
r Stenberg. Senior \V<irdcn ......
Jubilee ---·---·······-·····---·-···-No. 604_ .. \V<irneD.
Dudek, Pa st Master
Elmer
F rank E. Dunn. Past Master
John D. Parsons, Past Master
Brink, Senior Warden...... 56.42
Glasse l! Park .................. No. 605 ... Eugen e T. R. ten
George M. Haley, Junior Warde n
SR .94
Senior \Vnrden .
Sojour ner ....................... . No. 607.... Jack L. Margison.
Russell Walsb erg. Junior \Varden
57 .40
, Master.................
Granad ;i ..........................No. 608.... Prank C. Tucker W arden
Emil J. Lind, Senior
AL A. H earne. Junior Warden
57.82
Donald G. Campbell. Grand Lectur er
James E dward W cllet, Junior Grand
57.40
Deaco n ............ ................................. ...
.. .. ........... 12.04
...........
Master
an,
E11stm
.
H
George
....
609
No.
.
Provid ent .......................
Everet t J. G. Chapm an. Senior \Vardt'n
Wilbu r \V. Ho lzcl<iw . Junior \Varde n
12.04
Leslie E. \Vood, Past Grand Master .....
Ned E. Ubben, Past M aster
Carlyle P. Van Pa tten, Past Master
Master
E lmhurt ............................ No. 61 0 ... Walter W . T aylor.
James A . Davis, Senior \Varde n
Carl W . Hasha, Junior W arden
Carl E. Boorman, Past Master
55.02
Mastl'r..........
Canog a ............................No. 611....John P . Kearbe y, n. Senior \Varden
Ronald \V. T hompso
Joh n H. Colpitts, Junior Warden
Charles 0 . Piing. Past Master
Willia m P. Forbes, Jr., Past M<ister
Neil R. Quick. Past Ma1;ter
.. 58.38
Doty. Maste r..... ... . .
Temp le City .................... No. 612 . .. Ch arles V.l.Alexan
der, Senior \Varde n
Charle s E.
David I. Marlo w. Junior Warden
.. 58.3S
Ma rk E. Schrock, P.M. and Inspector
Rupert C . Curtis, Past Master
Donald Mathe wson. Past Master

466
Name of Lodi"

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodie

Repruentat!vea

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileaie AU~

Three Pillars ····-··-········No. 613.... H crbert S. Garfield, Master. ...........................
Lisbon R. Leech, Jr., Senior Warden
Lyle G. Smith, Junior Warden
Frank P. Lemen, P.M. and Inspector............
Larchmont ...................... No. 614 .... Robert J. Miller. Master..................................
Harold Liebschcr, Junior Warden
Robert A. Simon, P.M. and Inspector............
Frederick A. Chworowsky. P ast Master
Newcomb Condee. Past Master......................
Herbert H . Cooper. Past Master
Hemet -·-······--·-..··-.....No. 615 .... Fred E. \Vagncr, Master.... ...........................
Carl L. Gregory. Senior Warden
Henry L. Kwock, Junior WardE'n
Hubert J. Ra ymond. P .M. a nd Inspector......
Wilbur Raymond, Pnst Master
R. E. Dolley....................No. 616 ....Marshall G. LaR ue, Master... ........................
Floyd W. Eldred, Senior Warden
Kenneth B. Conklin, P.M. and Inspector......
Frank 0. Brostrom, Past Master
Big Bear .......................... No. 617 .... Walter A. Raasch , M aster..............................
Ronald J. Robinson. Senior Warden
Robert W. MorE'y, Junior \Varden
Earl Moore Vigus. P .M. and Inspector..........
Southland ............. _ .......No. 618.... Gaylord C. Doran. Master..............................
Harold V. Bowyer, Senior Warden
William M. Gatlin, Past Master
Thomas N oble, Pnst Master
Neptune ..........................No. 619.... William A. Sfagle, Master.........................
Victor Ira McCarty, Past Ma ster
Point Loma ....................No. 620.... Philip G. Ma rsh, Master..................................
Kenneth D. Taylor, Senior \.VardC'n
H oward S. Fisher, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
Cecil J. Rogers, Past Master
.......
The Gardens .................. No. 62 1....Ronald B. Munro. Master...........
Edward N. Caudle, S enior Warden
Lyle L. Sandlin, Junior Warden
Edward F. Skinner, Jr .. P-ast M aster
Floyd S. V andegrift, Past Master
Atwater .......................... No. 622 .... Chestcr A. Demby, Master......................... ...
Robert G. Warmuth, Junior \Varden
Frederick H . Cha pman, Past Master
Jesse M . Few, Past Master
Victor L. Frank, Past Master
Gilbert H. Peterson, Past Master
Menorah .......................... No. 623....Alan B. Bodley. Master..................................
Jack 0. Davis, Senior Warden
Fortitude .......................... No. 624 .... Lconard R. Bern, Master
Donald M . Marshall, Senior \Varden
Ralph M. Webb, P.M. and Inspector
Russell G. Worth, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................ No. 625.... William A. Sadler, Master.............................
Arleigh G. Ponncr, Senior W ;irden
Jack M. Farrell, Junior \ Varden
Chula Vista ······-············No. 626.... Denny W. Hobbs. Senior \ Varden..
Vyrl S. Hatch, Junior \Varden
Charles E. Smith, Past Master
Lamanda Pa rk ................No. 627 ....Clefford F . Snodgrass. Master.... .. . .......... ...
Orval F. Hart, Senior Warden
Lin.coin Ellabarger, Past Master

12.01
12.01
56.12
58.38
56.12
68.60
68.60
60.34
60.06
68.60
68.60
56.12

60.06
73.08

56.12

56.12

56. 12

56.42
73.92
57.51

Name of Lodie

No. of Lodae

Rcpresentativ..

467
Milull• All°""'d

Truth ......................- ......No. 628.... Jack E. Kelly, Jr., M aster................................ 51.60
Robert J. Dye, Senior Warden
R. Roy Forkner, Past Master
Chris B. Jacobs, Past Master
Palrv!ew ..........................No. 629 .... Mi tchell H. Weisman. Master........................ 56.42
William A . Stokes, Senior W arden
Riley V . Randall, Junior Warden
Arthur W. Billings, Past Master
Ben L. Irwin. Past Master
Thomas M . W idick, Past Master
d
Ingleside ..........................No. 630 .... Herbl'rt W. Jack, Master
George H . B<'ers, Junior War en
Henry C . Clausen. Past Grand Master
Hilman H . Baker, Past Master
Raymond W . Blosser, Past Master
George W. Gardner. Past Master
Joseph F. Garriott, Past Master
Master...................... 56.12
Chapman,
W.Lee,
MauriceW.
Bencvo1ence .................... N o . 631.. .. Robert
Senior Warden
Oliver B. Nyberg, Junior W arden
Maurice J. Norton, Past Master
Buford E. Rhodes, Past Ma ster
Ayers, Senior Warden.................... 73.08
LarrieMD.
No 632 .... Earl
· ht
N orma I H e1g
. Moore. Junior Warden
s .............. .
Lester E . Bond, Grand Chaplain.................... 73.08
Ben T. S almon, Past Master
R. Eskridge, Master.......................... 51.24
Pol.nsett1'a ........................No· 633....Charles
James C. Glass, Senior Warden
Jules J. DeMoor, Junior W arden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Grand Master.......... 50.51
Arthur T. Mead, Past M aster
Victorville ......................No. 631 .... Royce E. Avery. Senior Warden.................. 59.08
Lewis W. Ambrosier, Past Master
W illard F . Cameron, Past Master
Riverside ...............- ....... No. 635 .... Raymond G . Mette. Sen!oWrWrdarden.............. 64.10
a en
W illiam R. Jones, Junior
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
Clarence M. Briggs, Past Master
Charles H. Grace, Past Master
John Ma rshall ................No. 636....Iva n M. Wyrick, Senior Warden.................. 56.12
Robert A. Crigler, Assistant Grand Lecturer 56.42
Edward A. Underwood, Past Master
Palisades ······-·······---...No. 637.... Frank E . McGee. Master................................ 56. 11
Robert E . Yoder, Senior Warden
Albert Huntsman, Junior Ward en
Joseph T . Cuthbertson, Past Master
Cecil A. Weihe, Past Master
Demorest S. Wemple, Past M aster
Indian Rock ....................No. 638 .... John Stanley Hall, Master
E rnest Estel Metz. Senior W arden
David R. Lane, Past M aster
Composite ......................No. 639.... Edward H. SilvermaWn, Mdaster........................ 56.12
Jules Carlin, Senior ar en
Arthur Oritz, Past Master
Arthur Dvorin, Past Master
Khatchikian. Senior Warden............ 56.56
James A · p oshay ············N o · 64 1....Tlgran
Eberhart Kramer, P ast Master
Wm. J. Rogister. Jr .. Past Master

468
Name of Lndge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
N o. of Locl11e

Reprc&entativca

469

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFORNIA
Mile•ll• All"-<!

La Cumbre ...................... No. 642 ....CJahrl GW.BChorm1J'cle,JScniorWWardcn ..............
o n . arnes, r., unior
arden
F. \Vesley Savage, Past M aster
Jess M. Sheegog, Past M aster
Alta Loma ...................... No. 643.... \Villiam C. Royer, Master .............. ...............
Marion C. Auldridge, Senior Warden
Lomita ..............................No. 6-M .... Fred A. Bergon. Senior \V<1rden....................
\Vallace E. Williams. Junior W <1rden
A. F. E. Irwin .................. No. 645.... Mclvin L. Furman. Senior \V<1rden..............
Robert D. Gallarcto, Junior Warden
Earl J. Walker, P.M. nnd In spector..............
Warren \V. Garrison, Jr .. Past M;ister
Delbert L. Michaels, Past Meister
Metropolitan .................. No. 6·!6 .... Philip C. Pukini, Master................................
Richard R. Cleveland, Senior Wmden
Robert V. Fulkerson, Jr., Past Master
Hawthorne ......................No. 647.... Paul L. Boling, Senior Wardcn......................
J. Bob Clements. Junior W eirden
John A. Owen, P.M. and Inspector....
James C. \Vhitc, Past Maste r
Lester G. Williams, P ast Meister
Damascus ........................ No. 648.... 0ren G. Pike, Senior Warden........ ..............
Jose-ph L. Ousley, P.M. and Inspector..........
C. Ed. C leg horn. Past !\faster
Herbert W. Robbins. Past M aster
Harry E. Wainwright, Past Master
Florence .......................... No. 649.... Norval Calvin Barrett. Ma ster. ....................
Edward Arthur Weirick, Senior \Va rden
Frank Anton Machner, Junior Warden
La Brea ............................No. 650.... John F. Henry, Jr.. Master..............................
John B. Laumann, Senior Wardcn
George W. Burch, Jr.. Past Master.
Russell Lee-, Past Master
John W. Swank, Past !'vfastcr
Chas. Yecsmcn, Past M osler
Menlo Park .................... No. 651.. .. Tommie T. Hudson, Master ... ......
Stanley E. Enoch. Senior \Varden
Fred \V. Diestel. Junior \Varden
David Wright, Grand Tikr
Robert Christiansen, Past Mastcr
Royal Hodge. 1Jast Master
Crescenta Valley ............No. 652 .... Henry E. Allcock, Scnior \Varden ...... .... ...
Gail M. Hamill, Junior W11rdcn
Fontana .......................... No. 653.... George T. France, Senior Warden .. .. ..........
Charles H. Dennin gton, Junior W a rden
Jordan ..............................No. 65·L. William S. VanDeweghe, Scnior Warden....
Monte Vista ....................No. 655 .... James F. Peterson, Master..............................
G. Stanley Davis, Senior \Varden
Citro] ................................No. 656.... Ray Griffin. Junior Ward.:-n.........
Herbert E. Barlow, Past M aster
John D. Spreckcls............ No. 657 .... Philip Crittendcn, Master................ ..
Frederick. J. Leipper, Senior \:Varden
Glenn Ballard. Junior \Varden
Ernest E. Taylor, Past M<ister
Livingston .................. N o. 658 ... Herbert 0. Dunbar. Maste r... .. .. ... .... ...
Manuel Ja cobs, Senior Wardrn
Jack L. Bolto n, Junio r \.Varden
La H.1bra ...... ................. No. 059 .. J. Edgar Mtmoso. Senior Wardrn .. ..
. ..
Riley L. Blurton, P.M. and Inspector............
Baldwin P<irk .................. No. 66D ....Kenneth A. Eddings. Mastcr................... ......
Allen A. McGee, Senlor Warden

47.60

60.06
59.78
60.20
60.20
56.42
57.96
57.96
63.56
63.56

57.26
56.42
56.42

4.48

56.28
64.54
57.26
60.06
59.78
73.08

15.96
59.36
59.36
58.66

Nome of Lod11e

No. of Lodge

Rcprc1cnta1ivu

M ilcacc Allo-d

Ma lta ..............................No. 66 1....Eric A. Moline, Senior Warden....................
Eugene H . Grechanuck. Junior Warden
Henry Knox ....................No. 662 .... Waync G . Geer. Master ................ .. .
John V. Ketchoyian, Senior Wardcn
Ivan 0 . Seiberling, Junior W a rden
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
O jai ..................................No. 663 ....Williarn K. Ash, Mastcr .................. .
Robert H. Smith. Senior Warden
Frank E. Stevens. P .M. and Inspec tor
Kawc<ih ............................No. 665 ....Clarence King, Master................................. .
Reseda ..............................No. 666 ....William L. Derr. Master........................
Robert C. Hartmann, Senior W arden
Frank S. Ba rnard. Past Master
Adolph W. Dryden, Past Master
Meridian ..........................No. 667 ... Frank F. Schrage. Master..................
Robert A . Dotterer, Senior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master. ..
Ray L. Peterson, P .M. and I nspector...
Frank W . Raddatz, P .M. and Inspector.. ...
John M. Swon. Pnst Master
San Gorgonio ..................No. 668... Leonard McCu lloh . Master.
Fred H. C;irlin. S rnior Warden
Merle A. Ramsour. Junior Warden
John P. Jarman ................No. 669 .... H erm<in D . Little, Master ...........................
Hoy L. Little, Senior Warden.
Herbert Pritchard, Past Master
Greenleaf ........................No. 670 .... Lemucl S. Benbury. Master............. .
Harold D. Bailey, Senior W arden
Leslie 0. Johnson, Junior Warden
Kenneth E. Turner. Past Master
James L. Twaddcll, Past Master
San Clemente ..................No. 671 ....0mar L. Brenn;i, Master.................. .
Gerald H. Turner, Senior \Varden
David H. Blakelock, P ast Master
Thomas A. Broadbent. Past Master
Edwin \V. Chaffcc. Past Mastcr
Laguna Beach ................No. 672 .. Joseph H. Penna. Senior Warden... .
Walter R. Harper. Junior Wardcn
\V. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grnnd Lecturer..
\Valter H. Wayman , Past Master
Far W est ........................No. 673 ... John S. Carpenter, Master
Carl H. Kiefer. Senior \Varden
James W. Springer, Jun ior Warden
Charles L. Foster. P.M. and Inspector
Albert A . Baker, Jr .. Past Master
Wolter E. Barrus, P ast Master
William C. Kunz, Past Master
Rowland, E. Mason, Past Master
F red E. Munson. Past Master
Earl B. Mycrs, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior. Past Master
Edward W. Quon, Past Master
Robert Van Hcekeren, Past Master
....
Los C erritos ....................No. 6H .... Irvin Rose. Master ............................ .
Sam Raska. Senior Warden
Morton B. Glick, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Sissons. Past Master
Modesto .......................... No. 675 .... Martin H. Zais, Senior \.Varden....................
\.Villow Glen .................. No. 676.... Sylvester J. Gorman, Master........... ...............
Roy F. Ward, Junior Warden
William W. Eilers, P.M. and Inspector........

56.42
56.42

52.08
52.08
32.62
54.32

56.00
56.42
55.02
56.00
68.l~

7.00
57.82

6-t.82

63.70
60.62

60.06

12.74
7.00
7.00

i70
Name of Lod..,

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loda•

Repreacnuti,.,,.

GRAND I.001.E OF CALIFORNIA
Mileaie All

Liberal Arts ···-····-·········No, 677.... Thomas H. Wright, Master............................ 5~
Thomas I. Baker, Senior Warden
·
Ellssworth Mcryer, Past G rand Master.......... 57.Si
Raymond D. Gail, Past Master
James G. Heagy, Past Master
Al d
John F . Porter, Past Master..................-..
6i.6B
ta ena - - - -............No. 678.... Lee Roy Carlson, Master......................... ····• 57 iO
Jack M. Crawford, Senior Warden
. ······
·
J. Ralph Young, Junior Warden
William R. Juergens, Past Master
Canby C ross .................. No. 679.... John N. Bettandor ff, Master............................ 51.IO
Carmel ............................ No. 680.... GHeorgl e WE. LclandJ. Senior Warden................ 17.36
aro d
eston, r., Junior Warden
Ralph Thompson, Sr., Past Master
Roy E. Tilly, Past Master
Dos Palos ........................ No. 681.... Ernest Fosse, Senior Warden........................ 19.88
Richard D. Crowe. Past Master
Samuel D. Glassey, Past Master
Barstow ··············-··········No. 682 .... Lawrence E. Keyte, Master............................ 58. IO
Lennox E. Perkins, Junior Warden
Redwood Empire ............ No. 683 .... Ernest A. Reynolds, Master............................ 29.5i
Floyd Higley, Senior W a rden
Trana .............................. No. 684 .... Eugene R. John, Senior Warden.................... 59.22
_ Lynn A. Blackmun. P .M. and Inspector........ 58.66
San Marino ···-···············No. 68).... Roy J. Henville, Master.................................. 57.82
Peter M. Swanson, Senior Warden
Kenneth E. Hooton. Junior Warden
Stephen J. Collins, P.M. and Inspector.......... 57.82
W. Glen E. Irwin, Past Master
A
A ttilio G. Parisi. Past Master
lbany ·······-··-··- · -No. 686.... Clarence E. Noble, Senior Warden
.
Roland R. Grisham, Junior Warden
V1Sta ·········-····-···--····No. 687.... Kenneth L. Baber, Master.............................. 69.58
Lewis H. Field, P.M. and Inspector.............. 69.58
Andrew H. Chung, Past Master
Oildale .......... --..- ........... No. 688 ....Clern E. Churchwell, Master.......................... i 0.i6
Bruce M. Chism, Senior Warden
Sherwood Goldman, Junior Warden
Pohona ............................No. 689.... Harold K. Schmidt, Senior Warden.............. 29.26
George R. Murphy, Junior W a rden
San Carlos ........_............ No. 690.... T. G. \V. (Bill) Henry, Master
Harry E. lmbody, Senior Warden
Raymond H. Fronberg, Junior Warden
E. Ross Baylis. P .M. and Inspector
Indian Wells Va lley...... No. 691.. .. James M. Auman, Master................................ 56:42
Robert J. Francis, Senior Warden
Maurice L. H amm. Junio r Warden
Travelers .........- .............No. 692.... Peter W. Snetko, Master................................ 12.0i
Harry D. Brainard, Past Master
Palm Springs ·····-·-········No. 693.... vValter J. Stuart, Jr.. Master.......................... 71.68
Julius Edelstein, Senior Warden
Charles H. Davis, Junior Warden
Hiram 0. Gordon, P .M . and Inspector.......... 72.10
Robert S. Bertrand, Past Master
Thor. C. Fredericksen, Past Master
Frederick A. Morrison, Past Master
San Antonio .....- ............ No. 694 .... \.Vayne H . Gaulden. Senior Warden............ 58.10
Ivan A. Hofmann, Junior Warden
Meudell ·--.......................No. 695.... GDeorge H. Hauslein, Master.......................... i0.46
ennis K. Ingram, Senior Warden
Jack D. Henslee, Junior Warden

Nuru: of Lode•

No. of lodge

471

RepreKntativco

Kenneth C. Cummings, Past Master
Gunnar Petersen. Past Master
Crossroads ......................No. 696.... Robert S. Wilkinson, Master......................... .
David J. Bowie, Senior W ardm
Earle P. Sheffield, Past Master
Prank H . Stewart, Past Master
Saint E lmo ·····--········-···No. 697.... Petcr D . Neilson. Master
Leonard Berg. Senior \.Varden
James R. Spratt. Jun ior Warden
Robert H . Burrows. P .M. and Inspector
Edmond 0. Burger. Past Master
William McCosh, Past Master
William R. Meyer. Past Maste r
James S. Pursley, Past Master
William D. Stephens...... No. 698.... Clement L. Carter, Master ..
...............
William R. Bryant, Senior W ard1:n
D. E. Wolfsberger, Junior \Vr1rdcn
Walker S. Kissclburgh, Past Master
Bixby Knolls .................. No. 699 .... Charlcs T. Jones. Master............................. .
Frank A. Malan. Senior \Vard en
Perry H . Barrett, Past Master
Eric R. Eley, Past Master
Winford A. Tarver, Senior Vlarden.
P on derosa ........................ No· 700····Theodore
C. Lindsey, Junior \ Varden
Santa Ynez Valley.......... No. 701.. .. George P. Goodwin. Senior Warden
Rosemead ........................No. 702.... Harold H . Burris. SenioWr'vVdarden ................
George A . Smith. 1unior
ar en
Westchester ....................No. 703.... David V. Rouse. Master................. . ..............
Wayne R. Cox. Senior Warden
Francis H. Barnard. Junior W arden
Louis M. H all. Past Master
Herman Holt Parsons. Mastl'r
0 rin d a ............................N o. 70i.... Daniel
W . \.Veils, Senior W arden
George E. Chase, Past Master
El Cerrito ............... ~........No. 705.... Ch;:irles A. Bailey, Ele-cted RPpresentative
Ralph P. Partridi:ie. P .M. and Inspector
John L. \Vixon. Past Master
Hunters Point Naval ...... No. 706 .... Gcorg e E. Gammon. Master
George B. Lozar, Senior W arden
Orval E. Benbow, Junior Warden
Charles R. Shour, Past Master
Lake Tahoe .................... No. 707....Edmund L. Hieb. Master ................................
Roger L. Scott. Senior W arden
Loudon F. Hillhouse. Past Master
Seafaring ........................No. 708 .... Robert S. Wilson, Senior Warden............... .
W . Ren Ludlam, Jr., Junior \Varden
Herman W . Toedter, P.M. and Inspector....
Emerson Hill. Past Master
Lor
No 709 .... Edward C. Will. P .M. and Inspector
enzo -·-···· ........._...... ·
Woodrow H . Patterson. Past Master
K. Meadows. M aster ........... .... .
Anacapa ..........................No· 710... .Irvin
Bobbie L. Worford. Senior Warden

73.08

56.i2

60.06

25.62
42.00
57.68
56.56

26.88
6'!.12

64.12

52.64

Rlru of the World............No. 71 L .. John D. Wililams, Master................................ 65.66
Arthur S. Alquist, Senior Warden
Harry A. Barnes, Ju nior Warden
Art Hartwell. Past Master
Los Altos ........................No. 712 ....Vern R. Ireton. Master.................. .. ............
H 8
Robert S. Everett, Junior W a rden
Raymond F. Foote, Past Master
Castro Valley ................ No. 713.... Joseph E. Elleard, Senior Warden ................ 3.50
Clement B. Cole, Past Master

472
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Rcpresenutivea

Name of Lodge

Mileage Allowc.i

Blue Lakes ...................... No. 714 ....John 'vV. McLain, M aster
C.H. Schellenger, Senior Wardc-n
Stanley R. Rey, Junior Warden
Hans E . Olson, Past Master
Gordon E. Robinson, Past Master
Magnolia Park ................No. 715....Carl C. Voelker, Master..................................
Francis M . Hershberger, Senior Warden
Viggo Petersen, Junior Warden
Ralph E . Swann, Past Master
Belmont Shore ................ No. 716.... Ralph Vv. Coulter. Master............................. .
Theodore H . Nelson, Senior \.Varden
Harold C. Umbarger, Junior Warden
Omer D. Akin, Past M aster
Wayfa rer ........................ No. 717 .... Vernon A. Thomas, Master ........................... .
Calvin J. Barkley. Senior Warden
San Lorenzo Valley........ No. 718 .... Williarn E. Frick, Master............................... .
John J. Humbert. Senior Warden
Elbridge F. Russell. Junior Warden
Estero ..............................No. 719 .... George M. Kouremetis, Sr., Senior Warden
Chad Horton, P.M. and Inspector ................. .
Mineral King ..................No. 720 .... Jack C. Christy. Master................................. .
Home .............................. No. 721 ....Frank Gelfound, Master................................. .
Julius N. Ludwin, Senior Warden
Abel Tohey, Junior W arden
George E. Tutt.. ..............No. 722 ... Lawrence J. 'vVeister, Master ........................ ..
Henry R. Ames, Senior Warden
John B. Bertino, Junior W arden
James E. Curtis, Past Master
Lawrence E. H endricks, Past Master
ll.cahrnes ..........................No. 723.... John M. Kennedy. Senior Warden
Robert L. Nicolai, Junior Wardc-n
B. H. Burnett, Past Master
San Ramon Valley..........No. 724 .... Donald W. Morrison. Master....................... .
Paul J. Schwnan, Senior Warden
Norman Perlmutter, Junior Warden
St. John's ........................No. 725 .... H arry M. Cameron, Master........................... .
Robert L. Kerr, Senior W arden
Billy D. Cook. Junior Warden
Martin H. Quinn, Past Master
Yucaipa .......................... No. 726 .... William E. Stager, Senior Warden............. .
John H. Shaffer. Junior Warden
Verdugo Hills ................No. 727 .... William E. Bergdahl. Master........................
William B. Ratcliffe, Senior Warden
Philip B. Stone, Past Master ......................... .
Lake·wood ........................No. 728 .... Paul Preston Graue. Master....................... - .. .
Walter T. Kirschner, Senior Warden
Floyd 0. Mason, P.M. and Inspector........... .
Kenneth L. Hemphill, Past Master ............... .
Centennial ......................No. 729.... Arthur H . Hilse, Master ................................ ..
William T . Craig, Senior Warden
Polaris ............................ No. 730.... Walter F. Rutherford, Master ....................... .
A . Richard Tanner. Senior Warden
Charles A . C lark, Junior Warden
Edward E. Seagle, Past Master
Two Rivers .................... No. 731.. .. James Lamont Baker, Senior Warden ........... .
Ernest Read, Past Master
San Juan ..........................No. 732 .... Robert J. Morey, Senior Warden ................ ..
Golden Empire .............. No. 733....Donald Wiswell, M aster ................................. .

55.H

60.06

57.82
10.08

33.18
32.31

31.36
51.60
7.'!2

4.62
3.50

65.52
56.00
55.H
60.06
60.06
60.06

58.38
12.46

58.10
12.46

12.01

No. of Lodge

Reprcse ntativu

473
Mile•ge A llowed

Arthur Alexander, Senior Warden................ 12.01
Kenneth Chase, Past Master
Henry Hansen, Past Master
Robert K. Titus, Past Master
12.04
Kit Carson ......................No. 734.... Alfred J. Guetling, Master .......................
Joseph E. Roderick, Senior Warden
Jack C . Neely, Junior Warden
Samuel A. Hudson, Past Master
71.96
Oasis of Mara..................No. 735 .... Willi<lm \V. Shirley, Junior Warden. .
Lemon Grove .................. No. 736.... Marland A. Long, Master.............................. 74.62
Victor D. Riska, Jun ior Warden
Chester T. Hobbs, Past Master
Thomas E . Parsons. Past Masti>r
Francis L. Patterson, Past Master
William E. Rife , Past Master
Hillsborough ..................No. 737 .... John Louis Hart, Master
Willi<1m R. M orrison, Senior vVardi:n
Carl W. Schwahn, Jr., Junior Warden
43.68
Arvin .............................. No. 738 .... Alva 0. Brooks. Master. .................. ..
Clyde N. Story, Junior Warden
56.28
La Canada ......................No. 739 .... Wallace C. Kellogg, Master........ .... .
Clyde R. Tucker, Senior Warden
Linn T . Hodge, Jr., Junio r Warden
57.96
Opportunity .................... No. 740.... Roy A. Hunter, Master .................... ..
Robert K. Tassie, Senior Warden
Bernard R. Doyle, Junior W arden
58.52
Tyre ................................No. 711.. .. Robert S. Shean, Master................ ..
C. Robert Barrett, Senior Warden
Ralph C. Welch, Junior Warden
Morningside Park .......... N o. 712 ... Abe DeBoer, Senior Warden.......................... 58. 10
Sam Da lmont, Junior W arden
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
56.28
Oakwood ........................ No. 7·13 .... Ralph J. Cunningham, Master.............. ..
Joe B. T wedt, Senior W arden
San Leandro .................... No. 714.... fh omas B. Middleton, Senior Warden
Carl M. Liebert, Junior Warden
Jo hn W. Parker, Past Master
Peninsula ........................No. 745.... clmer E. Orner, Junior W arden
Edwin J. Biddell, Past Master
Theodore A. Luk<1 s, Past Master
Sequel ..............................No. 746 .... Claire V. Beaupre, Master.............................. 10.64
Denver M. Hudso n, Senior W arden
Alvin Wm. Wendt, Past Master
C laude H. Morrison ...... No. 747.... Thomas L. Walston, S r.. Senior Warden.... 73.92
Highland .......................... No. 748 .... Harold L . Johnston, Master............................ 62.72
Guy W. Whelchel. Past Master
M~rced ............................ No. 749.... Harold M. Beam. Master................................ 17.92
Samuel G. Da niels, Senior Warden
Alfred Mcintyre, Junior Warden
William A. Jensen, Past Master
60.34
Mother Colony ..............No. 750.... Everett M. Waymire, Master ....... ..
Victor Ruzich, Senior Warden
James V . Latham, Past Master
3.92
Hamilton ..........................No. 751 .... Ben Leonell i, Master........................................
H arris C. Jackson, Jr .. Senior Warden
John E. Hoekman, Junior W arden
Robert W. Bussman, Past Master
William T. Miazga, Past Master
7.56
Luther Burbank .............. No. 752 .... Eugene B. Pe.rsonett, Master..... ..
Frederick Tiltmannshofcr, P .M.
Lawndale ........................No. 753.... W. Ray Hunter, Mastl'r...... ............................ 57.96
George R. Hartman, Senior Warden

474
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE
No. of Lodtt•

Repruentativet

San Pablo ........................No. 754 .... Paul H arrison, Master
Orel T. VanDagriff. Jr., Senior Warden
Andrew L. Jones. Junior Warden
Golden Bowl ..................No. 755 .... Raymond P. Warden, Senior W arden ......... . 57.10
Archie B. Patterson, Junior Warden
Clayton Valley .............. No. 756.... Tohn C. Jacobson, Master............................... . 1.34
Hubert C . Roe, Senior Warden
William J. Martin. Junior \Varden
Channel ............................No, 757 .... Guard C. Darrah, Jr., Junior Warden ............ 10.92
Wendell H. Nicol. P.M. and Inspector......... . 8.68
Charles N . Clarkson. Past Master
West Covina .................. No. 758 .... Lyle C. H all, Master..................... .................. . 58.66
Joe P. Lackey, Junior Warden
El Rancho ........................No. 759 .... Perry A. Morris, Senior Warden................. . 58.10
Ernest H. Berutto, Junior Warden
Lnkeside .......................... No. 760.... 0des C. Hodge, Master................................. . 74.18
John E. Mikol. Senior Warden
Cecil F. Jncobs, Junior Warden
4.18
Josiah W . Roller.............. No. 761.... Harvey Nixon, Ma ster....................................
Edwin S.S. Hays, Jr., Senior W arden
Delmar D. Wilcox, Junior Warden
John J. Williams, P.M . and Inspector............ 4.18
Oswe T. Lund. P ast Master
Thomas J. McWilliam, Past Maskr
Herbert E. Simons, Past Master
Coastside ···················· ·-·No. 762 .... Alan L . Kirby. Senior Warden
Robert G. Van Ness, Junior Warden
Arabic ·······---·-········· ······-·No. 763.... Michael B. Maloof. Jr .. Master ...................... 56.42
Samuel L. Shallah. Senior Warden
Heritage -···--------·--··········No. 764.... Everett Lehman. Master................................. . 54.60
Delbert R. Crawford, Junior Warden
Dana R. Weller..............No. 765.... Lawrence A storino, M aster........................... . 5~ . 38
Raymond I. Maggard. Senior W a rd en
Harold C. McLendon, Past Master
Philip F. Lucas, Past Master
58.10
Jnmes H. Kew ..................No. 766 .... Charles J. Sti:wart. Master ..................
Chester G. Renier, Senior Warden
William Robusch. P.M. a nd Inspector ......... . 58.10
Wm. Rhodes Hervey......No. 767.... Leslie J. Chandler. Master.............................. 56.12
Dale E. Wallen, Junior Warden
Zenith -····-····---············-- ·No. 768 .... Daniel R. Grimes. M aster................................ 51.32
John W. Chesley, Senior Warden
Reginald Fudge, Past Master
Howard M. Langworthy , Past Master
Enos J. Walker, Past Master
Palmdale ..........................No. 769 .... Gcrald L. Myers. Master................................ 51.18
Ernest G. Buttery, Senior Warden
Harold L. Chamberlain , Junior \Varden
George R. Wilson, Past Master
Lake Chabot ..................No. 770.... Kenneth Huffstutter, Master......................... . 3.50
George T. Loher. Jr .. Senior Warden
73.08
Mission Bay ··--······------·N o. 771.. .. George Bakich, Senior Warden. ..... .
H. V ian \Valravcn, Junior W a rden
Avenal ............................ No. 772 .... Kenneth R. Evans. Junior Warden ................ 31.64
Tejon ..............................No. 773.... Peter W ard Todd, Master .............................. 40.16
Bill R. Strickland, Senior Warden
Kenneth A. W a rd, Junior Warden
H erman S. Little, Past Master
George C . Poloy nis, Past Master
Louis B. Smith, Past Master
H. Guy Walford, Past Master

Name of Lod11e

N o. of Lodire

Repretcntativu

475
Mileage Allo"1Cd

Waikiki ..........................No. 771 .... Herma n S. Ho~oi, Master............................... 338. 19
Edward L. S. Chun. Senior Warden
H. George Conger, Past Master
70.14
San Dieguito ..................No. 775 .... Granville K. Frisbie. Senior Warden
Alex H. Parker. Past Master
East Whittier ..................No. 776.... Homer Lee H icks, Master......... ..................... 57.82
F loyd L. Flores. Senior Warden
Clifford H . H iatt. Jr. W arden
Elmer Bentley. Past Master
18.48
Pinnacle ..........................No. 777.... Tfohert Wm. Dunlap, M aster............ .
Alfred A. Riva . Junior Warden
Percy H . Dunlap. Past Master
William M . Head. Past Master
59.22
La Mirada ..................... .No. 778. .. Toe T. Wilson. Master.........................
Thomas E. Martin, Senior W a rden
Donald R. Biga lke , Junior Warden
Richard L. Riemer. Past Master..................... . 58.52
Five Points ......................No. 779 .... Donald C. O'Neil. Master... ..................... ...... 60.06
Clayton R. Heinz, Senior Warden
Charles C. Klein. Junior Warden
56.28
Riviera ............................No. 780.... Wm . Howard Crooks, Sr .. M aster........
Victor Howard. Senior Warden
Jo hn B. Patterson. Past Master
Rollinq H ills ....................No. 781.. .. Gradon G. Stuart. Senior Warden...... .......... 59.78
6.58
Silverado ........................No. 782 ....Chester A. Schell. Master......... .....................
Richard C. Hennesey. Senior Warden
Elzie A . Madison, Junior Warden
6.58
Romayne H . Bantz, P .M. and Inspecto r
James W. Kennedy. P <ist Master
Mojave ............................No. 783... .Terald D. Ferren. M asteT................................. . i9.00
Richard L. Ledwidge. Senior Ward en
Laurence R. Henry. Junior Warden
Ray E. Moore. Past Master
Leland Stanford ..............No. 784 .. Garcy B. V•/eibel, Senior Warden...... ......... 22.68
Chester W. Kimball. Past Master
•
Leon D. Sine, Past M aster
Paramount ...................... No. 785....Martin Mnker, Master............................ -·- 57.54
Prank F . Karasinski, S enior Warden
Rondo H. Patzig. Junior Warden
14.00
Rio Linda ........................No. 786 .... Robert C. Simmons, Master......... .. ..........
Francis M . Thompson. Senior Warden
RobPrt H . Rudd. Junior Warden
Carl E . Yeargain, P ast Master
60.20
Westminster ....................No. 787.... Tohn R. Hampton. Tr.. !\faster....................
Thomas H . Baker, Senior Warden
Thomas S. Commans. Junior W arden
Sierra ..............................No. 7RR ... lohn Esterak. Master........ ............................ .. 27.58
12.(H
Oak Plains ......................No. 789 .... lack D. Brooks. Master.............. ..............
Walter S. Oliver. Senior Warden
Lewis D . Skvhawk. Jr.. Junior Warden
Willlam C. Green. Past Master
James K. Wilson, Past M aster
52.92
G ranada Hills ................ No. 790 .... Robert L. Lawson. Master.........................
William J. Greenb;ium, Senior Warden
Bdhby J. Lindsey. Junior W arden
LeRoy W . Sch laeqel. P.M. and Inspector.... 51.94
Merrill E. Ba lser, Past Master
52.M
Gen. Henry H . Arnold..No. 791 ... George Poulos. Mastt>r......... ................ .. .
Warren H . Smith. Senior Warden
James W . Mofford, Junior Warden
Clyde B. Tyler, Past Master

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it is miy sincere cecommendation that the Committee be gr~nted a budget
of $6,650.00 for the ensuing Masonic Year.
It has often been said that i1f you want a job well done, select a busy
man to do it. This is exactly what we had in mind when we appointed
Thomas W. Thurman chairman of the Committee on Constitution Observance. We wish to thank Brother Thurman and all the members of
his Committee for the flne and outstanding job they have done for the
Grand Lodge of California in presenting this program on the Constitution of the United States of America.

seminar being LET FREEDOM RING. Those who heard the Jul<y 11
program came away with a feeling of pride in the accomplishments of
dedicated Masons of the past and a wish to personally dedicate themselves anew to the service of Masonry in the future.
We strongly support and recommend the continuation of the Research Lodges and the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education
as we are convinced that these devoted and dedicated Masons are doing.
and will continue to do. a great service for the Grand Jurisdiction of
California.

31

COMMITTEE ON RITUAL
Grand Lecturer Donald G. Campbell and his six Assistant Grand
Lecturers have given us devoted and loyal assistance on every occasion
when requested. The Grand Jurisdiction of California is held in high
esteem by every Grand Lodge in North America due to the excellence
of the degree work being done by all of our constituent Lodges. My
sincere thanks to all the members of this very important Committee.
I also wish to take this occasion to thank the Inspectors of all the
Masonic Districts of this Grand Jurisdiction for their help and assistance
during my year as Grand Master. They constitute a great and hard working group of dedicated and devoted workers, and a mighty and valuable
force for every Grand Master in carrying through his program.
RESEARCH LODGES AND
COMMITTEE ON MASONIC EDUCATION
A survey of Masonic education throughout the United States.
undertaken by the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education.
shows that virtually every grand jurisdiction has a program for Masonic
education or is planning one. Those jurisdictions with the best programs
also appear to be making the best Masonic progress.
In California the Committee on Masonic Education and the four
Research Lodges have rendered an invaluable service this past year.
Members of the Research Lodges have traveled more than 100,000 miles
at their own expense, visiting Lodges when requested to do so, and giving
talks. presenting panels or seminars. A wealth of authentic information
concerning Masonic history. symbolism and youth organizations has
been communicated in this fashion.
The Committee on Masonic Education has been of great beneflt to
Masonry in California by coordinating the efforts of the Research
Lodges. by conducting Masonic seminars in areas beyond the reach of
the Research Lodges and finally. by using the third annual joint meeting
of the Research Lodges to promote the Masonic observance of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. This celebration was held in San
FranciscoonJulyl 1 .1964. and was well attended. the theme of the all day

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEE STRUCTURE
Junior Past Grand Master Ira W. Coburn. in his Annual Message
to the Grand Lodge in 1963, made the following recommendation: "I
therefore recommend that a special committee be appointed by the incoming Grand Master to make a thorough study of our present overall
committee structure, their duties. activities, objectives. etc.. with the
objective of consolidation where possible and the elimination of overlapping responsibilities."
Pursuant to this recommendation, your Grand Master appointed a
committee of five members to make this study on committee structure
and prepare its report for presentation to Grand Lodge at its Annual
Communication in October, 1964. The members of this most important
Committee are:
Theodore Meriam, Chairman
Guy B. Mize
Elbert W. Davis
Ralph H. Head
Wakefield Taylor
This Committee has held many meetings and will in due time make its
report to this Grand Communication. I urge your careful attention to this
report for the reason that it is of great importance to our Grand Lodge
committee structure.
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
I wish at this time to compliment and commend Brother Newcomb
Candee for another year of remarkable achievement on behalf of the
California Freemason. Our Grand Lodge magazine has achieved an
outstanding position among the official Masonic publications due to the
devoted and dedicated efforts of Brother Candee. It started eleven years
ago during the term of Past Grand Master Frank Harwell, Jr. It has
Improved constantly under the editorship of Committee Chairman Newcomb Candee. It is a readable, inspirational and informative magazine.

54

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

June I4-Flag Day Observance and Breakfast, San Diego County
Masonic Officers Association, San Diego (Laurence E. Dayton,
Junior Grand Warden).
June I 9, 20, 2I-First and Second Divisions Conference.
June 2I-Annual St. John's Day Breakfast, Compton.
June 22-Reception, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles.
June 23---Reception, 5I6th, 520th, 522nd and 524th Districts, Van Nuys.
June 26-Grand Bethel. International Order of Job's Daughters, Long
Beach.
June 26-Annual Beefsteak Feed, Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Inglewood.
June 28-Annual Orange County Area Breakfast, Anaheim.
June 29-Reception, 646th District, El Centro.
July I I-Joint Meeting, California Research Lodges, San Francisco.
July I 7-Reception, Truckee Lodge No. 200, Truckee.
July 24-Reception, San Diego County Officers Association, Chula
Vista.
July 25-Reception, 606th, 6IOth and 6I8th Districts, Ontario.
July 3I-Reception, 596th District. Paramount.
August 7-Reception, 620th and 62Ist Districts, Torrance.
August 7, 8, 9-Masonic Homes Board Meeting, Santa Barbara.
August 29-Meeting, Southern California Association, Order of De
Molay, Palm Springs.
September I I-Reception, 624th, 626th and 627th Districts, Visalia.
September I3-Breakfast, 4I8th Masonic District, Masters and War~
dens Association, Fresno.
September I 7-Reception and Constitution Observance Program, 628th
District. Brea.
September I 9-Constitution Observance Program, 629th District, Anaheim (John F. Porter) .
September I 8-BBQ, 1l6th and I I 7th Districts, Durham.
ANNIVERSARIES

1963
November I5-Golden Anniversary, Tyrian Lodge No. 439, Manteca
(Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
I964
March 3-75th Anniversary, Orange Grove Lodge No. 293, Orange.
May 3-Golden Anniversary, La Puente Lodge No. 446, La Puente.
(James E. Wellett, Junior Grand Deacon).

55

May 16-Golden Anniversary, Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, Van Nuys.
(Myron E. Smith, Senior Grand Warden) .
June 22-Golden Anniversary, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles.
August 8-75th Anniversary, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, San Diego.
August 8-Golden Anniversary, Montebello Lodge No. 4_51. Montebello. (James E. W ellett, Junior Grand Deacon) .
September 26-Centennial Celebration, Elk Grove Lodge No. I 73, Elk
Grove.
V1s1TATIONs BY GRAND LoDGE OFFICERS To
OTHER GRAND JURISDICTIONS

I963
November 1 I, I2, I3-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada (Theodore Meriam, Deputy Grand Master).
I964
February I 9, 20, 2I, 22-Conference of Grand Masters of North
America and Annual Meeting of The George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, Kansas City, Missouri.
(Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary).
April 27-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona. (Myron
E. Smith, Senior Grand Warden).
May 4, 5, 6, 7-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of New York
(Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., Grand Secretary).
June 10--Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon. (Laurence
E. Dayton, Junior Grand Warden).
June 16, 17-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Washington.
June I8, I9-Annual Communi·cation, Grand Lodge of British
Columbia.

UST OF CON STIT UEN T LOD

GES
With Membership, Charte r Dates, Fees. Dues, Degree
s conferred, Per Capita Payme nts, Contributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita " includes $2.35 for Grand
Lodge plus $1.00 for Masonic Homes, and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Memb ers Contributions" includes Homes
Contri
bution of $25.00, G. W. Memorial Contribution of
Memorial Templ e Contribution of $9.00.
$1.00 and California
Membership statistics apply to the year ending June 30,
A. L. 5964.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges
, page 515.
Lod&e

No.

1 California .......................... 1
2 Weste rn Star ·············-····· 2
3 Teham a ····························- 3
4 Benicia ......................
.......... 5
5 Tuolum ne .......................... 8
6 Corint hian .......................... 9
7 San Jose ···-··········- -·········· 10
8 Yount .................................•· 12
9 Nevad a .............................. 13
10 Templ e ................................ H
11 Eureka ................................ 16
12 La Parfait e Union.............. 17
13 Mountain Shade ................ 18
H San Joaquin ........................ 19
15 Washi ngton ...................... 20
16 Hawai ian ............................ 21
17 Occidental .......................... 22
18 Madiso n .............................. 23
19 Maripo sa ··---~-·-·················· 24
20 George town ......................
.. 25
21 El Dorad o .......................... 26
22 Trinity ···-··························· 27
23 Golden Gate ···-················· 30
24 Gold Hill ............................ 32
25 Ophir .................................. 33
26 San Diego .......................... 35
27 Howar d .............................. 37
28 Santa Cruz ........................ 38
29 Sacram ento ........................ 40
30 Martin ez ............................ 41
31 Los Angeles ........................ 42
32 Hiram .................................. 43
33 Mount Moriah .................. 44
34 Cresce nt ····-···-··············-··· 45
.JS Te:raa ········-· -····-·· ········ 46
36 Forbes tawn ···········-··········· 50
37 Illinoistown ......................
.. 51
38 Suisun ·········- ··-······· ········ 55
39 Volcan o ·····-······················· 56
40 Santa Rosa -········ ············ 57
41 Union ·-······--····················· 58
42 Gravel Range ··················- 59
43 Plumas ···-················-········· 60
44 Live Oak ......................
...... 61
45 Natom a ·····-··-··················· 64
46 Amado r -·---··· ·-······· ····- 65
47 Mornin g Star ·············-··-· 68
48 Ente~se ···········-············· 70
49 Bear ountai n .................. 76
50 Calave ras ···-······················· 78
51 Humboldt ···--··--··············· 79
52 Ione -··-······························ 80
53 Yolo ·-··-··· ········· -········ · 81
54 Vespe r ·····-························· 84
55 Naval ···-······-················-··· 87
56 Rose's Bar ·······-················· 89
57 North Star ····--················· 91
58 St. Helena ···-··-················· 93
59 Henry Clay - ···-··············-· 95
60 Homit os ···-··-·- ·-······· ······ 98
61 Yosemite --··--· ········ ···- 99
62 Clay ·····-··- ·- ··················.101
63 Orovil le -··-····- ··············--103
64 Lexington -··-·-··· ·········· ···lOi
65 Arcata ···-·······-·················.1 06
66 Pajaro -····-··· ········· ······-110
67 Chico ---·- ····-· ·······.1 11
68 Summif
·-······- --.1 12
69 Eden ····-·-- ······· -·-···- 1 13
70 Conco rd ··---· ·--··· ··--117
71 Fidelity -·-··- -········- ·120
72 Alamo - -··--·· -·········-····-122
73 Sotoy~ ·····-- - -·-····-···-.123
74 Table ountaln ·····-·······-124
75 Lafaye tte - -·- ··-·······--126
76 Herma nn ···-··- ················-.127
77 Visalia ···-····- -··············-·--128
78 Nicolaus - · - ··- ---129
79 Woodb ridge ···············--··.131

Member s

Chane.r
Issued

Degree

422
226
833
234
288
450
523
543
172
254
395
104
61
789
894
395
590
319
194
72
284
175
517
125
95
1000
266
534
813
424
1064
125
311
220

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854

100
65
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
50
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50
50
100
50
100
100
75
150
75
100
125

St

1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859

50
50
60
75
50
75
100
50
75
75
100
50
100
50
50
85
50
86
50
100
75
50
50
50
50
50
90
50
65
150
75
75
90
50
105
75
100
75
75
80
75
100
75
50
85

144
79
308
119
658
706
100
183
867
382
92
653
368
79
128
513
98
116
245
1147
65
89
131
81
105
498
105
388
645
349
422
603
65

HO

376
568
452
238
362
227
167
561
HI
197

Fees

Alfi!.
Pees

20.00

---

10.00
2.00
5.00
5.00

--2.00

-15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

---5.00
--

25.00

5.00
10.00
2.00
4.00

--

1.00
1.00
10.00

--

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

5.00
5.00

---

10.00
5.00
10.00

-2.50
1.00
5.00
5.00

-5.00
3.00
10.00

----10.00
5.00
5.00
2.00
10.00
10.00

--5.00
----5.00
-10.00
15.00

-5.00
1.00

-20.00

-5.00

--

Duca

I nit.

Passed

Raised

G. L.

18
15
15
18
12
18
12
18
16
15
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
15
16
15
18
15
12
15
20
12
16
15
15
18
12
15
20

Per C.pita

7
6
8
1
2
4
11
6
3
8
H
6
2
10
10
4
5
7
5
2
10
1
5
4
4
32
11
8
16
6
50
3
2
5

6
8
9
4
I
5
9
6
4
6
12
4
1
5
7
5
5
8
4
2
7
2
7
5
l
32
8
5
15
7
35
3
2
3

Memben
Contrib.

5
8
9
7
I
7
9
8
4
4
16
2
1
7
12
5
6
8
3
2
8
4
5
8
2
26
5
7
15
8
40
4
3
2

1493.15
825.65
2834.80
800.80
1002.00
1504.90
1904.30
1868.85
608.80
1030.55
li<Xi.60
563.70
183.35
2676.70
3016.95
1355.50
2035.70
1088.30
661.90
317.20
1002.85
621.55
1715.45
485.70
315.20
3436.30
930.00
1803.70
2917.75
1456.30
3899.20
460.40
1025.40
810.30

295.00
245.00
340.00
85.00
95.00
165.00
410.00
210.00
105.00
305.00
490.00
210.00
70.00
375.00
400.00
165.00
175.00
270.00
225.00
95.00
350.00
35.00
175.00
190.00
140.00
1195.00
385.00
305.00
560.00
210.00
1985.00
130.00
95.00
175.00

12
15
12
15
15
18
15
15
16
12
15
16
15
15
15
12
18
12
16
12
12
15
12
16
16
12
15
12
15
16
20
18
15
12
15
18
15
1·8
15
21
20
18
15
12
15

3
6
1
11
6
7
8

-6

1
6
2
8
6
9
4

279.85
522.00
299.30
1187.90
427.20
2244.20
2406.20
335.00
649.70
3030.95
1491.35
304.50
2287.80
1283.95
297.60
467.75
1800.15
420.60
389.60
862.05
3926.50
464.75
396.10
456.40
276.35
351.40
1791.20
350.40
1349.05
2234.90
1221.15
1429.70
1933.80
324.05
1509.25
1337.25
2020.95
1734.15
838.60
1388.60
752.70
726.75
2042.20
549.00
889.60

105.00
210.00
35.00
410.00
235.00
320.00
340.00

-

2
12
18
1
17
7
3
5
10
2

-

2
15
6
5
2
2
1
H
1
13
9
3
3
10 .
5
6
6
12
12
5
1
5
4
10
3
6

-

9
5
9
6

1
8
16
1
16

7

-

2
4
8
1

5
17
3
4
2
2
1
15
1
10
17
6
6
9
2
6
1
9
15
4
5
2
3
10
2
8

-

2
10
16
1
H
4
3
5
7
1
1
6
21
3
4
2
1
l
9

-

8
15
8
7
9
1
5
4
H
13
4
5
2
2
8
5
9

~

'I
00

--

70.00
445.00
680.00
35.00
620.00
245.00
105.00
175.00
350.00
95.00

--

70.00
625.00
235.00
225.00
70.00
70.00
35.00
575.00
60.00
505.00
315.00
140.00
130.00
350.00
175.00
235.00
210.00
495.00
470.00
175.00
185.00
175.00
165.00
375.00
105.00
210.00

~

'I

\()

Lodge

No.

Members

80 Sincerity ............................132
81 Vacaville ............................ 134
82 Valley ···························-···135
83 Pacific ·························-·····136
84 Crockett .............................. 139
85 Curtis ·········-·······················140
86 Grafton ....................... :...... 141
87 Franklin ·············-----··········-143
88 Oriental .............................. 144
89 Vitruvius ·······················-···145
90 Abell -----··-----························ 146
91 Eel River ···--········-···········147
92 Lassen ................................ 149
93 Molino ................................ 150
94 Woodland .......................... 156
95 Keystone ............................ 161
96 Harmony ···············-···········164
97 Excelsior ............................ 166
98 Alameda ·········-··········-··-·167
99 Redwood City ···················"168
100 Mission ·········-·······--·········-169
101 Elk Grove ·····---·················173
102 Drytown ............................ 174
103 Antioch ---·--···················-···175
104 Phoenix ·----·······-········--····178
105 Mendocino .......................... 179
106 .Petaluma ............................ 180
107 Russian River .................... 181
108 Arbuckle ···-··········--········· 182
109 Clear Lake .......................... 183
110 Sierra Valley .................... 184
I l!1 Claiborne ·············-···········-·185
1'12 Evening Star ···-··-····-·······186
113 Keith .................................... 187
lH Oakland .............................. 188
115 Northern Light .................. 19Q
116 Marin .................................. 191
117 Santa Barbara .................... 192
118 Ferndale .............................. 193
119 Mountain View -----------· 194
120 Buckeye ·------ -- __________ J95
121 San Simeon - ---·----------- l96
122 Wilmington ..............~-...Jgg

97
296
94
524
443
95
107
147
292
133
362
263
239
160
318
46
30
385
299
658
571
142
76
413
751
113
333
124
84
148
31
81
78
196
717
122
527
369
84
414
146
101

11123 Hartley •. - .,. ................... 1:99
124 Truckee .................:............100
125 Silveyville ..........................201
126 Pentalpha ..........................202
127 Confidence ..........................203
128 Salinas ................................204
129 Olivet ···--············-----·-········--205
130 Stanislaus ..........................206
131 Anaheim ............................207
132 Rio Vista ............................208
133 King David's ......................209
134 Friendship ..........................210
135 San Benito -························211
136 South San Francisco..........212
137 San Buenaventura ............2H
138 Oak Grove ........................215
139 Doric ..................................216
140 Monterey ............................217
141 Mosaic ···-······-···················218
142 Speranza Italiana ..............219
143 Downey ·········-········-·········220
144 Inyo ······-·····-·················-···221
145 Roseville ............................222
146 Bakersfield ..........................224
147 Brooklyn ···················-·······225
148 San Mateo ..........................226
149 Athens ···················-··········-228
150 Solano ·-···························-·229
151 North Butte ........................ 230
152 Covelo -······························231
153 Janesville •...........................232
154 Calistoga •.•......................... 233
155 Hope ·········-·········----··········234
156 Surprise Valley ............. _.235
157 Hills Ferry ....................... .236
158 Guadalupe ···-····················.237
159 Colusa "-·--·······---···············240
1()0 Santa Ana .........:................. 2+1
161 Magnolia -·············---·········242
162 Eucalyptus ........................243
163 Alcatr~ ..............................244
164 Laurel -···························--245
165 Pomona -····-········-········-···246
166 Fresno ---··-····-·············--247
167 Alturas •.•.............................248

238
152
152
431
122
607

663

HO

665
512
181
402
741
179
210
436
527
389
318
283
219
986
153
496
745
451
620
191
527
251
72
160
122
110
118
161
244
159
594
511
552
504
248
433
721
194

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864
1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869

135
75
50
100
75
75
50
75
100
50
50
50
100
50
50
50
50
100
102
100
100
50
50
75
75
100
80
75
50
55
50
50
50
50
75
65
100
75
50
100
75
75

5.00

1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878
1878

125

65
90
90
100
75
105
80
75
105
100
100
115
65
95
100
100
100
75
75
100
125
50
75
100
75
100
90
75
75
50
75
50
50
75
75
75
50
75
100
99
75
50
115
80

65

--

12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00

--

5.00
10.00

-----

1.00

--

2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
1.00
50.00
10.00
5.00

-5.00
5.00

-5.00
1.00

--5.00

-2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

--5.00

----

10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

-----

-1.00
1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

--

1.00
10.00

---

10.00

-5.00

10.00

----10.00
---

1.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

--

10.00
1.00

--

--

10.00
5.00

--1.00

Dues

I nit.

Passed

Raised

18
15
15
16
15
15
12
25
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
16
12
15
16
18
12
18
15
12
16
15
12
15
18
18
12
12
15
12
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
15

1
15
3
8
5
2
3
1
1
6
9
3
5
8
6
1

2
13
4
10
3
2
2

1
11
3
10
4
3
1

-

5
27
13
7
4
6
8
13
1
8
3
5
6

-

1
2
2
3
5
11
14
5
11
2

-

-

1
5
9
2
4
5
6
1

3
25
15
5
3
7
8
9
2
4
2
4
3

-

-

1
5
9
2
4
4
7

-

-

20
12
8
2
7
10
12
2
5
1
3
4

-

Membere
Contrib.

363.95
1118.85
324.90
1704.50
1577.60
375.20
399.45
493.45
977.85
598.20
1338.00
888.05
838.60
816.25
1197.50
212.75
97.15
1292.55
1308.60
2226.85
2127.60
626.25
302.90
1396.15
2520.85
411.85
1335.85
509.65
258.40
607.10
103.85
260.95
339.30
662.25
2344.10
510.95
1870.35
1343.35
364.40
1633.85
553.05
325.30

35.00
525.00
105.00
280.00
175.00
95.00
105.00
35.00
35.00
210.00
340.00
130.00
200.00
280.00
210.00
60.00

16

23

1
3
4
4
3
10
9
4
8
I
3
25

15
20
15
20
12
24
18
15
18
18
15
12
15
15
18
18
18
20
18
12
15
18
15
18
18
18
15
16
18
12
18
12
12
15
12
15
18
18
15
18
15
12
18
18
18

"!:

"!:

9
1
3
15
11
4
12
29
1
6
11
4
2
10
9
7
5
5
2
22

2

&>~.~~

5
I
3
14
13
2
11
29
I
5
13
3

8

589.30
529.45
1483.50
520.35
2176.35
635.30
2252.35
1780.75
643.35
1344.95
2537.60
643.65
741.20
1477.55
2051.20
1350.65
1113.50
967.90
720.90
3379.60
515.55
1869.25
2717.55
1476.30
2097.00
659.40
2034.80
963.85
237.85
570.95
403.65
411.50
482.85
719.65
900.05
730.65
2179.35
2016.45
2005.75
1521.70
858.05
1514.80
2462.85
679.15

1

-

26
14
1
6
3
9
3

-

4
2
2
3
6
6
11
22
13
20
4
3

5
13
2

-

10
7
3
6
5
1
25
1
22
8
4
3
3
3
7

-

3
2
3
1
3
9
6
21
11
15
5
2
8
15
5

1
3
3
7
6
9
6
4
13

G.L.
Per Capita

--

--

3
26

2l55!.90

mm"

-

2
16
9
2
15
31

-

4
13
2
1
7
5
1
4
5
1
28
2
18
5
4
8
2
6
8

-

3
1
3
2
3
11
6
15
19
15
3
4
8
18
4

0

200.00
995.00
455.00
245.00
165.00
210.00
305.00
480.00
35.00
280.00
105.00
175.00
210.00
35.00
70.00
95.00
130.00
175.00
410.00
740.00
175.00
485.00
70.00
60.00
8.30.00

1

~

00

315.00
35.00
105;00
600.00
435.00
165.00
420.00
1065.00
35.00
235.00
460.00
140.00
95.00
350.00
315.00
245.00
225.00
275.00
70.00
870.00

--

985.00
515.00
35.00
210.00
105.00
315.00
105.00

--

140.00
95.00
70.00
105.00
210.00
235.00
385.00
795.00
605.00
725.00
140.00
130.00
225.00
455.00
95.00

~

00

Members

Charter
h1ued

Desr••

Mil.
Fee•

168 Adin .................................... 250
169 Landmark -·'······················253
170 Reading ..............................25i
171 Welcome ···-·······················255
172 Lodi ··-·······-··········-··-·-···256
173 Penrhyn ···············-····-······258
174 Evergreen ..........................259
· 175 King Solomon's Seaport....260
176 Tuscan ................................261
177 Lompoc -····························262
178 Hesperian ·····-····-······-·····264
179 Orland ·-········-··--···-·······265
180 Galt ---··--···--·-·-··--·-········'267
181 Durant ···············-···············268
182 Olive Branch ...................... 269
183 Snow Mountain ................271
184 Pasadena ............................272
185 Anchor ................................273
186 Arroyo ·-···-··-············-·····274
187 Oakdale ···--···-··-·············275
188 Selma ···--·-··-·-··-·········277
189 Southern California ..........278
190 Hanford ·············-····-·········279
191 Madera ··-····--········-·-·-280
192 Mount Shasta ············-······281
193 Calayomi ··-························282
194 South West ........................283
195 San Miguel ........................ 285
196 Paso Robles ......................286
197 Winnedumah ....................287
198 Maxwell .............................. 288
199 Elsinore ···--·············-·······289
200 East Gate ..........................290
201 Santa Paula ···············-·······291
202 Los Gatos ..........................292
203 Orange Grove ···········-·······293
204 Traver ···--·-······-··-········-294
205 Mt. Jackson ··--·············-- 29:5
206 Silver Gate --·············296
207 Dunsmuir - ....: ....•.••____ 297
208 Liberty ···-·········- ···-·········299
100
c
209 Redlands ......

94
115
300
202
402
142
711
589
94
273
423
164
87
383
304
42
499
616
193
208
222
407
232
282
161
70
574
80
291
237
69
138
625
415
416
369
144
120
1215
251
395
498

1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890

50
50
90
90
50
50
75
115
50
100
75
50
50
80
75
75
115
125
65
75
80
75
100
75
90
75
105
50

2.00
1.00

210 Ontario =--············-··-··-·····301
211 Santa Lucia ·····-····-···-··.302
212 Porterville ·········-······--···303
213 Reedley -·-········-········-·····304
214 Azusa ·····-·-··-······-··-··305
215 Ashlar --····-··-·-·-··-······.306
216 Santa Monica ·········-··--····.3{11
217 Monrovia ·--····-····-········-.308
218 Delano -··-··-······-······-···309
219 Sisson -····-······-····-·-··.310
220 Los Banos ·······-··-··-·······312
221 Tehachapi ···-······-······-··--.313
222 Temescal ----···-----··.3H
223 Norwalk ···-···-·-·----·-···315
224 Sanger ············-·-··········-···316
225 Fallbrook ················-···-·····317
226 Emanuel ·······-······-·············318
227 Hollenbeck ···-··········-··--.319
228 South Gate ·--···········-·····320
229 Alisal ·········--·····················321
230 Alhambra -·-·····-·-····-..322
231 Whittier ·····-·······················323
232 Corona ···········-··················.324
233 Consuelo ·········-··········-···325
234 Needles ·········-···-······-·····326
235 Long Beach ···-··············-···327
236 Redondo -··-···-······-····-·--.328
237 Vallee de France......... _.....329
238 .Kilauea ··-····························330
239 Pacific Grove ·····-············.331
240 San Pedro ···-····-··-··········.332
241 Alta ···-···············-········-··.333
242 Covina --···················-·····334
243 W est Gate·--······················335
244 'Fruitvale -·-···-··-········.336
245 Carqulnez ~-··-··-········.337
246 San Jacinto --····-··········-338
247 Fullerton -·-·--·····-···········339
248 Oxnard -···---·····-···..341
249 San Fernando ···········-··----343
250 Starr King -··-··-··-···-···3+t
251 Brentwood ·····-················-..3t5
25'2 Palo Alto
253 McKinley ···-······-·-········347

523
163
507
150
339
341
368
340
249
113
155
185
295
480
327
171
88
702
476
200
638
794
433
379
333
619

1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902

75
75

No.

Lodr;e

I

·---·-··----346

777

127
190
310
542
146
536
1195
748
181
113
406
432
756
512
157
781
487

Feea

75

100

75
75

75
90
75
75
80
50
100
50
125

75

50

75

115

75

-

3.00

5.00
-

2.00
5.00
5.00

-

-

1.00

-

-5.00
1.00

-3.00

-

10.00
-

1.00
1.00
5.00

-10.00
~

--

125
100
100
50

15.00

115

-

75
75
75

75

-

2.00

-

2.00

5.00
5.00

55
50
100
100

25.00

100
100
115
90

-

75

75

125
125
100
125

75

125
53
115
165
100

75

65
125
100
125
100
65
100

75

-

-

1.00
25.00

-

12.00

-

5.00

-

25.00
5.00

-

-

10.00

-

10.00

5.00
-

G. L.

Due•

12
16
18
25
15
12
18
18
18
15
15
15
15
20
15
12
20
20
15
18
18
18
18
15
18
18
16
15
15
18
18
18
12
18
18
15
15
21
18
15
18
18

12
15
15
15
16
18

15

18
18
18
18
18
15
50
12
15

15

15
18
15
18
16
20
15
16
16
16
15
15
15
24
12
18
18
18
15
18
21
25
20
15
15
12
15

Init.

Paooed

Raioed

-

1
4
14
8
10
1
31
3
1
27
10
4
2
4
3

-

5
8
5
3
1
2
6
5
3
3
9
2
3
6
1
4
6
9
16
18
4
3
18
4
9

6
6
4
1
1
2
6
8
4
3
11
3
3
6
1
4
5
9
17
16
2
1
13

6
15
4
14
2
25
4
2
27
14
6

-

4
7

-

-

7
9
7
4

3
5
9
5
3
13
1
3
6

-

2
7
10
25
16
3
4
18
4

15

3
11
6
10
1
26
4
1
23
7
4
2
3
2

-

12

10

11
4
9
2
10
6
8
9
3
3
14
2
6
35
3
3
3
6
2
12
13
18
16
10
1
9
21
2

10
3
12
2
9
6
8

5
7

32

7

29
13
6
3
1
12
13
27
13
8
8
9

7
4
3
11
3

7

22
3
2
1
8
3
11
14
11
9
6
2
9
24

7

3
6
24

7

22
22

7

-

1

13
8
32
13
6
11
10

-

5
9
8

7

1
12
2
8
9
8
10
6
2
12
2
8
23
2
1
2
11
2
8
17
13
8
8
1
10
28
4
4

7
18
5
23
16
9
4

-15

7

31
15
5
12
9

Per Capita

312.55
426.55
1053.20
688.00
1545.40
447.70
2573.70
1975.60
282.05
1608.20
1487.90
581.65
295.45
1250.50
1128.70
137.35
1829.65
2094.80
684.15
821.40
742.35
1330.25
815.80
1131.65
636.35
243.50
2170.80
298.95
980.50
910.25
229.80
507.30
2093.15
1449.90
1568.15
1449.30
481.35
469.95
4137.50
848.65

Members
Contrib.

-

210.00
610.00
140.00
565.00
70.00
875.00
165.00
70.00
970.00
515.00
210.00
140.00
270.00

-

270.00
340.00
270.00
165.00

-

105.00
250.00
315.00
225.00
105.00
505.00
35.00
105.00
210.00

-

1773.20

70.00
245.00
375.00
925.00
695.00
105.00
140.00
680.00
140.00
600.00
470.00

1893.25
589.05
1759.75
568.45
1254.25
1163.35
1268.35
1159.80
820.35
386.55
1042.90
589.90
1020.85
2038.00
1103.45
578.85
294.10
2421.40
1517.85
792.60
2234.55
2854.95
1496.65
1748.55
1086.05
2173.20
2558.40
425.05
680.15
1121.80
2706.15
746.40
2011.15
3775.30
2550.90
702.60
379.55
1530.10
1591.75
2732.50
1659.05
604.90
2750.55
1681.05

385.00
165.00
340.00
70.00
350.00
210.00
330.00
315.00
105.00
105.00
490.00
95.00
235.00
1325.00
130.00
180.00
105.00
210.00
70.00
445.00
480.00
630.00
635.00
475.00
35.00
490.00
835.00
120.00
175.00
245.00
1245.00
245.00
1115.00
580.00
210.00
105.00
35.00
520.00
480.00
1030.00
455.00
280.00
430.00
315.00

1481.05

~

00
N

~

00
l.M

Lodge

No.

Membera

254 San Bernardino ..................348
255 Sequoia ..............................349
256 Palestine ............................351
257 Sunset ................~ ...............352
258 Pinole ................................. .353
259 Presidio ..............................35i ·
260 Hollywood ........................355
261 Mill Valley ........................356
262 Buena Park ........................ 357
263 Golden State ......................358
264 Loyalton ............................359
265 San Francisco-Victory ....3()()
266 Fort Bragg ........................361
267 Charity ..............................362
268 Berkeley ..............................363
269 Willits ................................ 365
270 Las Palmas ........................366
271 South Pasadena ................367
272 Unity ..................................368
273 Ocean Park ........................369
274 Amity-Seal Rock ..............370
275 le Progres de l'Oceanie......371
276 Gardena .............................. 372
277 West Los Angeles..............373
278 Jewel .................................. 374
279 Richmond .......................... 375
280 Francis Drake ....................376
281 Artesia ................................377
282 Mizpah ................................378
283 Fillmore ..............................379
284 Huntington Beach ............380
285 Oceanside ·········-··-···········381
286 Highland Park .................. 382
287 Orosi ·························-·······383
288 El Centro ···-·--···················-384
289 Dinuba ···························----385
290 Coalinga ·····················-·····387
291 Parnassus ..........................388
292 Palos Verdes ....................389
293 Imperial ·················-··- ·······390
294 East Belt ·········-··············--391
295 West Lake ........................392

994
922
457
289
173
402
1216
445
407

296 Balder ..................................393
297 University .......................... 394
298 Turlock .............................. 395
299 Apollo .....:..........................396
300 Rising Light ......................397
301 Fraternity ..........................399
302 Burluzyame ........................400
303 Bay iew .......•..................401
304 Brawley ···-··-·-···················402
305 Y erba Buena .....................:403
306 Glendora ·················--------·-404
307 Moneta ..............................405
308 Burbank ·····-·······················406
309 La Mesa ............................407
310 Sierra Madre ......................408
311 Honolulu ............................409
312 Charter Rock ....................410
313 Perris -····-···························ill
314 Calexico ..............................412
315 Arlington ·····-····················-41i
316 Silver Trowel ....................415
317 Lindsay ···-······-·················416
318 Clovis ..................................417
319 Elysian ·····-······················--.41 8
320 Upland ................................419
321 Kennan ..............................420
322 Inglewood ..........................421
323 Eagle Rock ·····················--422
324 York -··-······-··-······-·········423
325 Exeter ···-···-····--···-~·-·········424
326 Holtville --·-····················-425
327 Midway ···········-·················426
328 Chino Valley ·····-·············427
329 San Dimas ···--··-···············+28
330 Pittsburg --·····················429
331 McCioud -·····················-·--430
332 Alpha ····-···-············--431
333 Hammonton ·- ·-········-····-433
334 Maricopa --········-········-·····434
335 Fairmount ·········--·············435
336 Claremont ·-······················-436
337 Lancaster ···-·- ·················---437
338 Tyrian ···- ··························439
339 Standard ............................4-iO

470
478
419
437
943
413
643
647
239
851
281
533
860
650
200
413
246
143
135
257
416
203

572

88
441
157
187
572
158
1075
553
566
486
532
695
536
488
193
420
452
245
353
233
355
523
561
147
484
286
367
660
690
131
120
674

575

394
276
147

752

493
333
237
154
444
254
181
361
100
498
105
193
395
211
588
235
339

Charter
Issued

1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908

1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914

Degree
Fees

75
100
100
100
75
100
125
100

125

100
50
100

75
100
75
75

75

115
100
115
100
175
125

125

100
100
100
115
100
100
75
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50
100

Alfi!.
Fee•

10.00
1.00
10.00

-- -

20.00

-

--

10.00
10.00

--5.00
-5.00
1.00

5.00

10.00

---

1.00
10.00
5.00
15.00

- . 25.00

5.00

- -

25.00
1.00

-------

-10.00

--

- -

5.00

10.00

100
100

20.00
10.00

100
100
100

- -

100
110

25.00

125
125

10.00
3.00

175

25.00
5.00

75
75

75
75

105
75

75
50

75

100
125
50
80
150
90
75
125
100
100

-1.00

5.00

5.00

- -

--

- -

--

-5.00
- -

10.00

--

--

50.00
3.00

50
90
65

---- - - -- -

50

- -

50
75
75

75

50

50
100

75

115

75
75

25.00

1.00

---------

Dues

15
18
18
20
18
18
18
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
18
20
16
18
15
18
15
16
17
12
12
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
20
18
12
15
18
18
18
15
15

18
18
15
16
15
15
18
18
18
18
18
12
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
18
18
24
15
20
18
12
15
18
18
15
12
18
16
18
16
15
15
16
15
18
15
15
12
20

lnit.

Pa•sed

Raised

25

27

34

5

4
4
6
4
27
13
34
2
2
8
4
13
10
4
29
7
15
7
6

13
18
12
3

5
9
9
3
3
19
13
4
2
6
1
3
11
15
1
6
7

12
1
10
7
7
11
12
8
4
12
15
1

25

8
7
13
3
3
3
2
7
4
17
8
8
1
13
8

5
4

5

2
10
8
12
-

10
6
2
2
12
31
6
9

5

6
7
l
3
19
13
27
3
2
3
3
12
7
l
24
4
11
3
6
15
19
11
4
6
10
8
2
3
14
11
4
2
8
3
1
9
17
1
3
5

10
2
4
12
11
7
7
10
2
9
15
3
29
9
8
13
2
1
3
1

5

4
11
6
4
1
15
8

5

4
4
3
10
9
10
1
7
4

-1
11
18
4
7

5

9

-

5

2
24
10
21
3
3
4
1
10
4
4
25
2
6
2
5

11

23
8
3

5

9

5

2
3
16
11
7
2
8
2
1
10
16
1
2
5

11

3

5

12
13
5
3
9
3
9
7
3
28
H
4
8
1
1
4
-

5

2
12
7
3
1
16
7
4
4
3
2
11
9
11
1
6

-

5

1
12
23
3
5

G. L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

3470.75
3043.40
1561.50
999.05
613.00
1322.20
4439.65
1541.70
1696.85
1887.35
371.80
1500.55
565.60
679.70
1936.90
678.30
3767.20
1905.40
1984.70
1826.65
1849.10
2465.55
2102.10
1830.75
691.55
1444.60
1585.40
941.05
1176.15
789.55
HH.85
2001.95
1909.25
526.75
1726.60
944.00
1287.70
2260.75
2455.95
470.15
501.25
2374.70

975.00
225.00
H0.00
H0.00
210.00
165.00
995.00
480.00
1265.00
70.00
70.00
280.00
190.00
455.00
400.00
H0.00
1275.00
270.00
550.00
315.00
245.00
455.00
730.00
495.00
155.00
175.00
315.00
315.00
105.00
130.00
775.00
480.00
H0.00
70.00
345.00
60.00
105.00
385.00
575.00
35.00
210.00
270.00

1654.05
1553.70
1457.30
1451.40
3169.65
1546.55
2204.00
2244.35
902.85
2917.45
1115.00
1769.10
3062.75
2248.45
959.00
1509.15
834.95
554.05
563.90
875.50
1378.60
715.00
2140.95
1492.45
967.90
530.45
2631.35
1909.55
1137.75
929.25
714.50
1474.30
983.55
597.35
1320.55
333.65
1814.55
420.00
666.80
1370.45
836.80
2540.10
868.50
1248.25

4~.M

~

00
~

-

35.00
375.00
245.00
320.00
410.00
445.00
280.00
190.00
495.00
550.00
70.00
1025.00
355.00
270.00
505.00
130.00
105.00
105.00
120.00
245.00
140.00
620.00
280.00
280.00
35.00
480.00
305.00
175.00
165.00
200.00·
70.00
375.00
280.00
445.00

--

350.00
210.00
70.00
70.00
530.00
1210.00
260.00
340.00

..ii..
00
Ul

Lodee

No.

.340 Coronado · ··-·····-···---···-~ff 1

341 Blackmer ···········-···············ff2
342 Schofield ···············-···········ff3
343 Carpinteria ·········-···-····--·++t
344 Wilshire ···············--····-···+t5
345 La Puente ..........................446
346 Torrance ----·······-····-·········ff7
347 Mount Oiablo ....................4-48
348 Park ··-······-··--···········-······ff9
349 Van Nuys ···········-··-···- .450
350 Montebello ···--········-····--451
351 -San Pasqual ··············-·····452
352 Crocker ·········-···-·-···-----~
353 Golden West ·········--····-45 5
354 Ramona --···············--······.457
355 Henry S. Orme..._.............458
356 Riveroank ·--·-·············· ·459
357 Mount Oso ........................460
358 Argonaut .... ·-······-···-·-··4 61
359 Paul Revere ......................462
360 Morgan Hill ...............- .....463
361 Alta V ista ..... - .................. :464
362 Center ................................465
363 Lihertas ..............................466 .
364 Culver City ........................467
365 Rockridge .......................... 46&
366 Yorba Linda ...- .................469
367 Lincoln ................................470
368 Delta ..................................471·
369 Maui ..................................472
370 Blythe ........._....- ...............473
371 America ............... _............. 475
372 Coachella .........·--·-·-······-.. 476
373 Temblor ..............................477
374 Thousand Oaks ·-----····----478
375 Golden Rule ···-·······--·····4 79
376 Fellowship ..........._............ :480
377 Mt. Davidson ....................481
378 Oarence F. Smith.........- ...482
379 Bell ......................................483
380 Albert Pike ........................484
381 Chowclillla ···--·---.............485

m Caledonia --~-- .............- 486

383 Vallejo - ........ _....... ,... _...487
384 Patterson ·····--·······--··········488
385 East Bay ·········--···············489
386 Corcoran ···-··-··-··············-490
387 Woodstock ···········-··--····-491
388 Garvanza ····-···-··············-·492
389 Atascadero ·-················-··-493
390 Acom ..................................494
391 Lebanon ·-·········-···-······-···495
392 Fremont ···········-············-···497
393 Stockton --·······-···············.498
394 Capital City ·················-··-499
395 Roosevelt ............................500
396 Westwood ..........................5()1<
397 Harbor ·····················-······--.502
398 Point -······· ..·····················-·.503
399 Seaside ................................50t
400 Silver Cord ........................50S
401 Mount Olive .....................506
402 El Segundo .......................!Kil
403 Joppa ..................................508
404 Benjamin Franklin .............5()1)
405 Cupertino ............................510
406 Sunnyvale ··-····················--511
407 Palms ·····-········-················.51'2
408 Cahuenga ..........................513
4()1) Argonne ......................•.......514
410 Vermont Square .............-.515
411 Taft ··········-···-····-··········--.516
412 MOllllt Vernon ..................517
413 La Jolla ···-····-··············-··.518
414 Euclid ···-···············-···········.519
415 Ionic --·····-··········-·· ····-····.520
416 Piedmont -·-····-········-···--.521
417 Sunrise --··---··········-······.522
418 Bel!Hower .....•......................523
419 Catalina Island ..................524
420 George Washington ..........525
421 Bay City ............................526
422 Covenant ····-·········-·······"·.5'27
423 Beverly Hills ..•.....••............528
424 Loyalty ·························---.529
425 Sun Garden ······-·-····-····-5 30
426 Alexandria ···-······-······-····.531

Charter
l11ued

Degree
Fees

Alfi!.
Fees

100
100
140
50
125
100
110

-

310
154
456
266
607
477
396
1162
716
560
587
519
540
575
146
341
347
574
156
233
527
720
433
406
186
344
496
193
168
415
272
137
477
709
282
356
316
806
230
166

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

554
389
172
299
142
417
316
149
637
412
524
191
645
198
254
569
339
544
603
915
504
100
305
249
480
494
544
325
440
311
194
339
368
1207
241
274
686
133
403
417
241
547
700
540
i85

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

Members

387

UH

-5.00

-

1.00

-

75

100
125
100
115

10.00
10.00

-

-

75
75

10.00
10.00

-

100
125

75

80
115
100

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

75
75

-

80
100
100
115
100
100
100
50

-

10.00

-

-

-

75

5.00

-

115

-

75

50

75
75
75

5.00

-

1.00
10.00

100
115
100
100

75

-

16.00

-

100

75
75
75
75
75
75
75

80
100
100
80
100
100
85

75
75

125

75

125
100
50
100

75

150
125
100
100
100
50
80
115
100
215
80
100

175

100
100
100
100
125
150
80

75

10.00
5.00
10.00

-1.00

10.00
10.00
-

10.00
15.00
10.00

-

-1.00

-

-

10.00

-

5.00
5.00
15.00

-

10.00
25.00
5.00

-

-

10.00

-

10.00

-

5.00
5.00

Dues

!nit.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

G.L.

Members
Contrib.

15
15
15
18
15
18
15
16
18
15
16
18
12
15
18
15
15
18
18
12
15
18
15
18
20
18
15
18
15
16
15
18
20
15
18
12
15
21
20
15
18

6
17
10
4
3
13
17
15
2
40
14
6
8
8
15
8
2
3
3
5
6
1
12
6
17
6
6
10

5
13
9
3
3
10
17
17
4
36
19
9
10
5
12
8
2
3
2
5
I
4
13
8
14
5
5
9
6
4
2
4
11
2
1
18
3
6
11
11

5
13
9

1337.40
3895.15
1196:45
523.20
1494.05
1160.70
2099.65
1788.50
1383.80
4065.65
2506.75
1944.20
1856.45
2027.65
2011.10
1893.30
489.75
1222.35
1197.75
1935.10
664.90
819.20
1824.05
2479.90
1564.35
1370.90
700.05
1176.70
1730.55
748.20
633.10
1383.50
969.50
433.80
1643.80
2528.15
1202.35
1310.90
1534.55
2783.15
804.10
566.10

235.00
695.00
350.00
190.00
155.00
480.00
620.00
610.00
70.00
1620.00
540.00
235.00
280.00
305.00
575.00
305.00
70.00
105.00
105.00
250.00
210.00
35.00
420.00
270.00
595.00
210.00
260.00
375.00
270.00
165.00
140.00
70.00
305.00

1938.80
1360.80
647.50
997.25
653.70
1452.15
1088.50
505.75
2254.60
1501.50
1826.00
788.45
2201.30
663.30
857.90
1979.70
1455.25
1933.65
2335.70
3140.70
1744.70
402.30
1015.00
795.15
1923.60
1727.35
1860.15
1297.70
1448.50
1103.75
666.80
1259.65
1242.05
4844.00
855.60
906.15
2529.35
482.55
1465.05
1512.60
799.25
1810.60
2692.90
1973.60
692.05

245.00
280.00
105.00
70.00
200.00
210.00
140.00
245.00
295.00
350.00
305.00
420.00
385.00

12

18
16
18
15
18
16
15
16
15
18
18
18
15
15
18
15
15
18
18
16
18
15
18
15
18
18
18
15
15
16
18
15
18
20
18
18
18
20
18
18
18
15
18
15
18

?

-

4
4
2
8

2
11

7

6
13
14
3

4

7

11
9
3
3
4
3
4
6
6
6
9
6
10

8
3
2
5
6
4

7
7

-

-

8
15
12
21
15

7

2
2
6
32
5
9
5
I
3
2
5
8
45
1
2
27
2
2
5
4
5
31
14
2

4
15
24
17
8
34
17
10
9
6
12
8

-

4
2
4
2
2
12
14
18
5
6
12
6
2
1
4
11
3
3
19
6
8

7

10
4

5

1

10
8
12
11

7

-

5

15
9
2
4
4
3

7

7

6

7
7

-

4
8

3
11
9
10
16
19
10
I
4
6
28
3
11

4
8
14
II
12
15
11
I
4
9
24
3
8

3
4

4
5

7

-

5
9
46
1
I
18

-

4
4
4
5
30
13
4

7

-

4
9
33
3
2
28

-

4
5
4
5
27
11
3

..,.
00

°'

-

70.00
445.00
245.00
210.00
455.00
515.00
105.00
35.00

375.00
575.00
520.00
870.00
625.00
295.00
70.00
70.00
210.00
1170.00
175.00
425.00
200.00
60.00
105.00
70.00
350.00
305.00
1750.00
60.00
70.00
1130.00
70.00
105.00
175.00
140.00
175.00
1135.00
515.00
70;00

~

00
~

-:

..

Lod~

No.

427 Smyrna .......... ~ ......•...........532
428 Azure ..................................533
429 Forest Hill ···············-········534
430 Alexander Hamilton .........535
431 Utopia .....- ..- ..:··-··············537
.432 Ascot ···-·-·······-~·-···············538
433 Belvedere ............................539
434 Queen Beach ......................540
435 Henry Morse Stephens.......541
436 North H ollywood ..............542
437 Signal ..................................543
438 Glendale ···-····-···················™
439 Veritas--Jonathan ..............545
HO San Gabriel ........................546
H 1 Arcadia -···························.547
442 Triangle ·········-··-···············548
443 Justice ........•.......................S49
444 Lakeshore .........................551
445 Semper V irens .................552
446 Educator ·······-··················554
447 White Pine ·················-····555
448 Fairfax ·······-··············-·····.556
449 Hermosa ..................•.........557
450 Point Finnin ................... _.558
451 Craftsmen ..........................559
452 Plymouth ............................560
453 East San Dlego..................561
454 Pyramid --···-····-··············.562
·455 South Park ..._. .................563
456 Foothill ···-······················-564
457 West Adams ·············-·-····565
458 James A. Garfleld............ _.566
459 Searchlight ···--··············-·567
460 Park Boulevard ..................568
461 Chateau Thierry ···-····-····.569
462 Military Service _..............570
463 Francis K. Shattuck............571
464 James Madison .................5 72
465 Hillcrest ···-····-···················.573
466 S. W. Hackett....................574
467 Fort Crook ........................575
~ El Ca}on Valley................576

-f69 '51.umyslde. ··-···········-··-····.~
470 Progressive .......................578
471 Warren G. Harding ..........579
472 Santa Maria ·········-····-----·.580
473 Security .............................581
474 Rialto ····--·······-··-···········----.582
475 Wasco ............................... .583
476 Harding ..............................584
477 Manchester ·····-················.585
478 Garden Grove ···-··············586
479 Valley Forge .....:..........- ..587
480 El Sereno ...........................588
481 Kauai --·-··············-···-····589
482 Compass ···········-··············.590
483 Escalon ·············-····-········.591
484 Tujunga ··-·························.592
485 All States ·········-·····-··-····.593
486 Service -·············-··············.594
487 Alexander Graham BelL..595
488 Guardian ···-····-······--····-596
489 Pearl H arbor ···-··-············.598
490 Carmelita ···-····-·--·····-····599
491 Lynwood ·········-······-·········600
492 Grizzly ................................601
493 Melrose ···-······-·················602
494 Dimond ··--···-····-····-·-·-603
495 Jubilee ···--····-·······-·········.60f
496 Glassell Park -········-·-······605
497 Sojourner ............................607
498 Granada ..............................608
499 Provident ............................609
500 Elmhurst ............................610
501 9moga ..............................611
502 Temple City ···-·················612
503 Three Pillars ···················--613
50f Larchmont ..........................614
505 Hemet ..................................615
506 R. E . Dolley........................ 616
507 Big Bear ..............................617
508 Southland .......................:.. 618
509 Neptune -············-···········----619
510 Point Loma --·····-··········620
511 The Gardens -·---··-·----621
512 Atwater ----··---622
513 Menorah -·-·--··-623

Ch&iter
laaued

De ire•

392
896
319
394
1000
325
236
433
416
356
308
210
345
75
581
213
573

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

70
125
100
100
100
100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
125
100
90
75
100
100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
75
130
100
100

39i
497
661
121
394
329
342
310
336
444
417
433
121
347
165
368
528
915
265
995
624
358
565
121
252
270
437
398
312
786
512
283
471
550
453
381
275
262
161
379
319
719
530
373
1192

1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

125
100
125
80
100
115
80
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50
125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125

Membera

212
400
197
297
610
335
198
188
307
1030
545

·sos

328
. 594
642
332
372
265
344
387
102
487
426
344
360

Affil.
l'eea

Du..,

lnit.

Pasaed

Raiaed

Per Capita

G.L.

Memben
Contrib .

-

15
21
18
20
16
15
20
15
16
20
18
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
15
12
18
16
12
16
15
12
20
18
16
20
18
16
15
16
18
15
18
20
15
15
20

4
19
6
2
5
9
6
5
3
21
15
7
7
17
25
9
9
4
11
4
5
18
19
5

3
16
3
3
1
9
7
3
4
17
10
10
5
19
26
12
7
5
11
3
4
14
12
7
2
7
23
4
5
20
4
4
7
7
5
5
3
5

4
16
2
5
1
7
6
4
3
21
9
13
5
20
22
8
9
5
6

140.00
715.00
235.00
70.00
175.00
425.00
210.00
225.00
105.00
810.00
550.00
320.00
270.00
620.00
1075.00
315.00
315.00
165.00
410.00
140.00
175.00
630.00
690.00
200.00
95.00
350.00
1220.00
130.00
235.00
970.00
175.00
35.00
280.00
385.00
140.00
140.00
210.00
140.00
405.00
315.00
10f5.00

70.00
550.00
760.00
200.00
340.00
410.00
245.00
445.00
330.00
655.00
470.00
210.00
70.00
175.00
70.00
420.00
225.00
715.00
210.00
715.00
795.00
200.00
665.00
70.00
245.00
70.00
525.00
385.00
490.00
580.00
550.00
175.00
835.00
330.00
420.00
340.00
515.00
305.00
95.00
575.00
140.00
780.00
490.00
140.00
1340.00

l'eea

50
90
100
75
75
115
100
100
100
135
100
100
100
90
100
75
100
125
120
100
75
175 ·

10.00
5.00

-

-

5.00
5.00

-

-

10.00
25.00

-

10.00
5.00

-

5.00
2.00

-

-5.00

-

12.00

-

5.00

-

75.00

-

10.00
10.00
5.00

--

5.00
10.00

20.00
10.00
10.00

-

5.00

-

5.00
20.00
1.00

-

10.00

-

5.00

-

5.00
-

15.00

-

-

10.00

-

5.00
1.00

-

-

10.00
10.00
15.00

-

10.00
5.00

-

5.00
-

10.00

-

-

25.00

15
15
12
15
18
15
18
18
15
15
18
15
15
18
15
18
18
16
18
15
15
20
18
15
20
18
20
15
20
18
18
18
18
15
15
15
18
12
20
18
20
18
18
15
16

8
9
26

5
7
24

26

752.85
1629.30
730.95
984.85
2120.50
1207.20
787.30
685.05
1021.70
3661.05
2001 .30
2748.35
1124.05
2092.45
2372.00
1131.15
1317.75
930.05
1282.05
1335.75
522.00
1780.10
1654.00
1197.35
1285.90
1441.20
3341.15
1078.30
1448.10
3727.55
1082.65
791.90
1503.20
1450.60
1231.55
1038.75
749.50
1203.40
251.25
1965.90
792.20
2213.75

2
15
21
5
9
11
7
12
8
18
12
6
2
5
2
12
5
19
6
19
22
5
19
2
7
2
15

4
12
17
2
9
12
6
12
7
21
9
9
2
10
3
8
5
18
3
22
20
6
14
2
3
2
13
9
10
12
16
4
14
11
12
4
6
9
1
13
8
12
11
4
36

4
14
22
3
9
13
7
6
7
16
9
10
3
13
3
7
7
15
5
19
15
5
9
3
4
3
12
9
9
11
14
6
16
12
11
2
7
10
2
16
9
13
11
2
33

1316.50
1857.50
2369.35
447.00
1320.10
l166.45
1070.70
1128.45
1134.20
1735.65
1435.15
1455.45
409.00
1222.10
560.75
1313.05
1825.65
3242.05
965.05
3406.30
2197.35
1261.90
2117.95
388.90
981.45
888.05
1560.55
1443.85
1233.10
2733.95
1816.80
994.70
1857.10
1923.45
1640.80
1481.25
1076.55
1122.95
544.35
1325.20
1072.90
2637.20
1901.25
1291.20
4297.75

2

10
32
3
6
27
5
1
8
11
4
4
6
4

-

11

14
13
15
5
21
8
12
9
9
8
2
15
4
17
14
4
34

-

4

3
15
6
8
1
6
28
6
4
14
5
3
6
4
5
8
2
7

-

5

11

.ti.

gg

-

.ti.
00
IC

Lodge

No.

514 Fortitude ·····················-··--624
515 Angeles Mesa ....................625
516 Chula ViSta ···················----626
517 Lamanda Park ....................627
518 Truth ···········-·····················628
519 Fail"View ............................629
520 Ingleside ···············-···········630
521 Benevolence ......................631
· 522 Normal Heights ·········-·····632
523 Poinsettia ···-··········-···········633
524 Victol"Ville ······-···-·············634
525 Riverside ·········-··-····-·······635
526 John Marshall ....................636
527 Palisades ···············-···········637
528 Indian Rock ·····················--638
529 Composite ···-············-·······639
530 James A. Fosllay...- ...........641
531 La Cumbre ........................642
532 Alta Loma ..........................643
533 Lomita ·········-··············-·····644
534 A. F. E. lrwtn........... _..- ...645
535 Metropolitan ......................646
536 Hawthorne ···-···················647
537 Damascus ···-·····················648
538 Florence ·····-·······················649
539 La Brea ·····-····················--650
510 Menlo Parle ........................651
541 Crescenta Valley ..............652
542 Fontana ···-············-··-······;653
543 Jordan ·····-·························654
544 Monte Vista ···············-·····655
545 Citrol •.................................656
546 John D. Spreckels..............657
547 Livingston ···········-·············658
548 La Habra ............................659
549 Baldwin Park ·····-············Jj(j()
550 Malta ..................................661
551 Henry Knox ···-·················662
552 Ojai ································---663
553 Kaweah .............................. 665
554 Reseda ............................... .666
55? Mertdiiµi ·--·······················667

556 San Gorgonio ·················--668

557 John P. Jarman....................669

558 Greenleaf ............................670
559 San Clemente ....................671
560 Laguna Beach ....................672
561 Far West ............................673
562 Los Cerritos ......................674
563 Modesto ··························---675
564 Willow Glen ......................676
565 Liberal Arts ........................677
566 Altadena ............................678
567 Canby Cross ......................679
568 Carmel ................................680
569 Dos Palos ..........................681
570 Barstow ..............................682
571 Redwood Empire ..............683
572 Trona ..................................684
573 San Marino ·····-·················685
574 Albany ................................686
575 Vista ·········-····-················-687
576 Oildale ·······-·····················--688
577 Pohona ···········-··············---.689
578 San Carlos ........................690
579 Indian Wells Valley..........691
580 Travelers ............................692
581 Palm Springs ......................693
582 San Antonio ......................694
583 Meudell ..............................695
584 Crossroads ........................696
585 Saint Elmo ···················-···697
586 Wm. D. Stephens...............698
587 Bixby Knolls ......................699
588 Ponderosa ..........................700
589 Santa Ynez Valley............701
590 Rosemead -·-··········-··--700
591 Westchester ···--··---···-703
592 Orinda --····-·-············· .70t
593 El Cerrito ..........................705
594 Hunters Point NavaL.... _.706
595 Lake Tahoe ........................ 707
596 Seafaring ···············-······-···708
597 Lorenzo ···-·························7®
598 Anacapa ···········-·-~·-·······-.7IO
599 Rim of the WorlcL.... _.....711
600 Los Altos ···-·······················712

Members

216
706
695
311
238

307

217
259
809
752
290
642
285
438
203
726
206

m

391
374
261
185
586
731
402
262
359
626
398
425
857
268
673
220
280
354
266
414 ·
183
137
847
513

271
315
900
156
201
355
541
535
419
437
528
144
255
168
448
119
156
470
214
339
287
88
469
449

204

261
271
217
354
275
194
386
377
145
250
493
258
218

241

102
515
382
262
.178
230

Charter
Iaaued

Degree
Fee.

Afl'il.
Fees

Dues

Init.

Paaaed

Raised

Per Capita

G.L.

Members
Contrib.

1925
1925
1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928

75
125
125
115
115
100
90
100
I05
100
74
75
100
100
75
175
100
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
125
100
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125
115
75
125
75
50
120
100

5.00

18
18
15

5

4
10
18
4
7
3

6

795.20
2458.90
2620.20
I087.50
793.50
I039A5
742.25
1051.55
2850.75
2649.05
1140.80
2297.95
988.70
1473.90
753.05
2670.IO
759.05
1377.90
1322.00
1352.50
916.30
631.10
2035.25
2575.65
1387.30
955.00
1103.65
2296.25
1587.20
1449.30
3106.20
999.05
2456.75
781.65
9(1}.50
1406.20
887.70
1497.50
720.00

175.00
350.00
I080.00
140.00
345.00
70.00
280.00
385.00
620.00
555.00
445.00
720.00
105.00
245.00
70.00
1370.00
175.00
380.00
175.00
165.00
245.00
175.00
470.00
750.00
315.00
175.00
380.00
615.00
340.00
105.00
550.00
200.00
310.00
140.00
530.00
595.00
305.00
340.00
I05.00
245.00
2180.00
305.00

1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1938
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1910
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951

75
75
100
100
75
75
175
75
115
125
115
65
75
100
65
100
75
100
75
75
100
50
100
100
100
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80
. 75
75
125
100
75
100
75
100
100
100
75
100 ·

1.00

20.00

20

10.00
3.00

18
18
20
18
15
18
18
18
15
18
18
15
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
15
18
20
18
16
15
15
18
20
20
18
15
16
15
15
15
15
18
15

5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

25.00

3.00

1.00
5.00
25.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
I0.00

1.00
3.00

10.00
1.00
25.00
10.00

5.00
I0.00
5.00

10.00
25.00
10.00
1.00
5.00
1.00

10.00
1.00
5.00
5.00

12
15
15
16
18
15
18
15
18
20
15
16
15
18
12
18
18
18
12
15
18
12
18
17
15
20
16
18
18
15
20
20
18
15
16
18
18
15
18
18
16
18
18
15
15

IO
28
4

7
2

8
11
17
13
12
17

3
7
2
37
5

8
5
4
5

5
12
20
9
5
8
14
9
3
15
5
9

4

13
17

8
8
3
7
58
8

9

10

29
7
4
5
19
10
15
16
5
2

7

4
25
1

1
17

2
14
IO

3
20
18
6
14
11

18
13
12
6
12
12
4
6
19
15

7
4
5
28
11
12
10
9

7

9
16
9
9
24
3

9
21
6
9
6

7
9

16

8
15
18
3

7

6
1

34
3
3
4

27
1
6

6
6
5
14
18
6
4
8
14
17
5
10
4
12
4
14
15
6
12
3
4

8
6

46

11

6
13
33

5

5
6
13
9
11

9
9
4
4

4
22
1

15

2

11
11

3
18
16
5

8
10
11
17
13
7
14
15
5
12
23
15
IO
4
8
27
10
11

8
13

5
5
13
21

4
5
IO
18
13

6
17
4

8
5
13
20
6
9
6
3

47
9

7
11
31

5
7

8
13

8
9
10

7
2

5
4
24
1
1

IO
4
9
9

4

17
16

6
8
8

7
17
14
9
12
15
5

7

26
12
IO
4

7

33
11
12

8
7

577.95

3430.05
1789.75

1148.15
1117.55
3311.30
557.90
689.35
1233.20
2134.00
2015.85
1578.65
1682.15
1783.IO
553.70
901.90
584.80
1746.80
428.95
525.60
1774.80
794.90
1324.60
1089.75
i06A5
1816.10
1760.80

770AO

979.30
1101.80
1407.90
1324.55
1065.25
531.90
1356.10
1333.25
524.70
932.50
1754.55
1007.95
757.30
889.35
361.70
2124.90
1466.65
1157.70
632.30
869.50

..i..
\0

0

390.00
350.00
1065.00
295.00
165.00
225.00
715.00
350.00
525.00
610.00
175.00

70.00

270.00
140.00
875.00
35.00
60.00
620.00
70.00
590.00
350.00
105.00
725.00
630.00
210.00
640.00
385.00
655.00
530.00
445.00
2I0.00
445.00
420.00
165.00
235.00
765.00
550.00
245.00
140.00
200.00
1080.00
435.00
420.00
425.00
, 400;00

-

-~

\0

Lodge

No.

601 Castro Valley ....................713
602 Blue Lakes ......................... .714
603 Magnolia Park ................. .715
604 Belmont Shore ..................716
605 Wayfarer ..........................717
606 San Lorenzo Valley......... .7 18
607 Estero ................................. .719
608 Mineral King ...................... 720
609 Home .................................. 72 1
610 George E . Tutt.. ................ 722
61 J Acalanes .......... ................. .723
61 2 San Ramon V alley ............ 724
613 Saint John 's ........................ 725
614 Yucaipa .............................. 726
615 Verdugo Hills ....................727
616 Lakewood .......................... 728
617 Centennial ..........................729
618 Polaris ................................ 730
619 Two Rivers ....................... .73 1
620 San Juan ............................ 732
621 Golden Empire ................. .733
622 Kit Carson ......................... .734
623 Oasis of M ara .................... 735
624 Lemon Grove .................... 736
625 H illsborough ..................... .737
626 Arvin ................................. .738
627 La C anada .......................... 739
628 O pportunity ...................... 740
629 T yre ................................... .741
630 M orningside Park .............. 742
631 O akwood ........................... .743
632 San Leandro ..................... .744
633 Peninsula ............................745
634 Soquel ... ........................... .746
635 Claude H . Morrison ......... .747
636 H ighland ............................ 74/i
637 Merced ............................... .749
638 M other Colony ................. .750
639 Hamilton ........................... .75 1
640 Luther Burbank ............... .752
641 Lawndale ............................ 753
642 San Pablo ......................... .75-t

e•_. CSoldea .uow1 •

··- ---~------. 7'5

6'H Clayton Valley ......:::;;.......756

6i5 Channel ................... ........... 757
646 West Covina .................... 758
647 El Rancho ......................... .759
648 Lakeside .............................. 760
649 Josiah W. Rollcr................76 1
650 Coastside ............................ 762
651 Arabic ................................ 763
652 Heritage ............................. .764
653 Dana R. Weller..................765
654 James H . Kew................... .766
655 Wm. Rhodes H crvey ....... .767
656 Zenith .................................. 768
657 Pa lmdale ............................ 769
658 Lake Chabot ...................... 770
659 Mission Bay ...................... 77 1
660 Avenal ............................... .772
661 Tejon ................................. .773
662 Waikiki ..............................774
663 San Dieguito ...................... 775
664 East Whittier .................... 776
665 Pinnacle ............................. .777
666 La M irada .......................... 778
667 Five Points ........................ 779
668 Riviera ............................... .780
669 Rolling Hills ..................... .781
670 Silverado ........................... .782
67 1 M ojave ............................. .783
672 Leland Stanford ................ 784
673 Paramount ..........................785
674 Rio Linda ........................... .786
675 Westminster ..................... .787
676 Sierra ..................................788
677 O ak Plains ........................ 789
678 Granada Hills ................... .790
679 G en. Henry H . Arnold..... .791
680 Millbrae .............................. 792
681 Maya ................................. .793
682 Mt. Wilson ........................794
683 American River ................ 795
681 Golden Valley ................. .796
685 Tila P ass ........................... .797
686 Ashland ............................. .798
687 Bay Claire Vista ................799

M embers

322
226
3~

367
205
96
158
I 13
539
182
194
159
243
213
110
263

164
J79
184
223
162
195
123
452
184
J3l
J63
226
250
J90
105
197
157
J69
136
2 14
153
J82
156
202
217
130
192

272

130
205
221
119
I 89
126
174
16 1
144
158
152
266
222
144
199
62
2~

155
211
189
55
176
106
153
124
J36
82
138
106
I 12
120
85
172
143
119
74
90
147
154
154
105
99
69

Charter

De1rce

[Hued

Fees

1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
J953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955

100
100
125
125
100
100
75
75
165
100
75
75
75
75
100
125
125
100
100
100
90
100
90
115
100
100
125
11 5
125
11 5
150
100
100
80
115
75
90
105
100
75
100

1955

100

1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
I956
1957
1957
I957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
I957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960

Af!il.
Fee•

-5.00
-- ---

1.00

--- 10.00

- -- -- -

----

10.00

--

10.00
10.00
10.00

- - -- -

10.00

- - 10.00
-10.00
- - - 1.00

-- -5.00
5.00

--

75

75
80
115
100
IOO
100
100
140
125
105
115
125
125
• 11 5
JOO
115
100
100
175
90
100
75
100
125
125
125
125

75
100
125
100
100
75

JOO
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
115
100
100

-

~--

---

10.00
12.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

- 10.00
- 10.00
10.00

- -

3.00
10.00
5.00

- - JO.()()_
-10.00
-6.00
--- 10.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

- -

5.00
7.00

--

10.00
10.00

-- 2.00

Du.-

lni t.

r.... a

Raiacd

18
18

15

H
11
24
13
2
2
I
2
29
11
4
6
12
6
7
15
3
12
3
11
4
9
10
23
8
II
9
11
17
4
5
10

19
9
22
13
2
2
2
2
29
8
7
4
II
5
8

18
16
15
16
15
20
20
18
20
JS
18
15
20
18

HI
15
16
15
15
12
20
20
18

20
24
J5
16
15
18
20
18
15
18
16
15
18
20
15

15
15

~

18
15
18
16
18
I2
15
15
18
16

15
15
JS
15
18
15
12
18
15

15
15
15
18
20
15
15
18
15
18

IB
15
16
18
15
20
12
18
10
15
15
15
15
15

18

12
21
14
2
5
2
2
39

13
5
5
10
6
6
J1
5
11
5

13
5
14
4
12
9
8
8
23
8
9
8
16
16
6
2

H
7
9
II
29
8
13
7
12
17
7
8
10
II
9
6
H
II
12
9
I7
JO
8

12

12
7
11
8
7
17
12
7
H
9

«""
19

H"
13

.....

IO
6
6

10
10

13
II
6
JO

15
15
I5
9
3
14
7
16
8
4
7
15
6
7
I7
4
25
23
9
20

13
16
10
11
5
I3
9
I5
9
5
5
17
6
II
17
5
31
23
6
15

20
10
9
7
10
6
11
20
6
8
2
18
II
25
4
10
9
13
19

15
9
8

-

17
12
11

-

1Q

8
5
5
9
5
8
2
18
10
22
5
8
7
17
21
19
12
8

14

G. L.
Per Capita

Memben
Contrib.

1256.70
950.75
1292.10
1319.40
721.05
435.60
587.60
419.55
2282.65
111 8.35
820.90
582.65
987.05
7 13.80
414.50
976.70
667.40
741.65
768.40
882.35
702.70
714.25
511.05
1694.20
697.05

550.00
445.00
835.00
600.00
95.00
175.00
120.00
70.00
1590.00
480.00
260.00
175.00
350.00
4 10.00
235.00
460.00
175.00
41 0.00
175.00
490.00
270.00
365.00
4 10.00
12 15.00
305.00
455.00
270.00
470.00
595.00
270.00
305.00
425.00
385.00
490.00
235.00
540.00
420.00
445.00
365.00

5~.85

665.05
881.10
915.80
681.80
471.75
855.60
733.95
658.15
503.60
783.90
715.55
85 1.70
607.90
1036.70

795.95

534.SO

,~..,

16

12.0"\.'20

11
16
II
7
4
8
8
8
12

474 .50
873.75
871.35
460.65
680.1 5
593.75
856.90
638.35
574.70
578.30
772.20
I 071.l0
724.35
579.05
8 18.30
256.70
916.10
649.55
8 14.80
914. 15
186.25
8 J5.60
41 8.10

5
6
18
7
12
16
5
30
21
8
II
2
16
9

7
8
8
5
8
9
6

5
2
18
9
16
4
9
4
19
15
15
14

7

6~.5 5

462.05
516.60
357.35
731.30
743.10
462.20
423.00
319.05
840.20
579.05
636.65
330.90
465. 15
6 17.45
564.90
675.90
427.75
366.30
428.80

~

'°
N

645.00
i2S.OO

Z80.00

'!111&8)
66~.oo

550.00
550.00
575.00
315.00
180.00
525.00
395.00
610.00
305.00
165.00
245.00
760.00
235.00
245.00
620.00
140.00
875.00
830.00
415.00
750.00

--

700.00
435.00
41 5.00
270.00
350.00
210.00
4 10.00
700.00
260.00
305.00
70.00
730.00
385.00
925.00
165.00
425.00
340.00
480.00
665.00
620.00
445.00
410.00

~

l.C
(,,.)

494
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

495

EXTIN CT LODGES, INCLU DING CONSO LIDAT IONS

.,,

00
~ ~°'"""°C"l~°' °'~"~~:::...,."""'"°~V'I (

I I

~~ I~~ II 111~ II~ II~ 11~~ 1
...
,l

2 Western Star, Shasta, 1850. Consolida ted with Clinton No. 119, as Western Star
No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
4 Berryman, Sacrament o, 1850. Name changed tojenning s No. 4.
Jennings, Sacrament o, 1850. Charter surrendere , May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacrament o. 1850. Charter surrendered. Ma y 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco No. 7,
Aug . 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco. Charter revoked, May 13. 1859.
8 Tuolumne. Sonora, 1850. Consolida ted with Mount Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, December 1876.
Tuolumne , Sonora. Consolida ted with Columbia No. 28, as Sonora No. 8, Dec.
12. 1891.
Tuolumne , Sonora. Consolida ted with George Washingto n No. 62, as Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
9 Marysville . Marysville, 1850. Consolidat ed wtih Corinthian No. 69, as Corinthian No. 9, Dec. 1874.
Corinthian . Marysville . Consolidat ed with Yuba No. 39, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
11 Williamet te. Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferre d to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 1851.
Nashville. Nashville, Dispensati on 1851. Charter never issued.
13 Nevada, Nevada City, 1851. Consolidat ed with Quitman No. 88, and Manzanita
No. 102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferre d to Jurisdiction of Oregon,
November 1851.
16 Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolida ted with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka No. 16,
Sept. 2. 1919.
Pacific, Valparaiso , Chili, Dispensati oo 1853, Charter never issued.
25 Georqe_town, Georgetow n, 1853. Consolidated with Pllot Hill No. 160, as Georgetown No. 25. December 1898.
26 El Dorado, Placerville, 1853. Consolida ted with Palmyra No. 151 , as Palmyra
No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolida ted with Mt. Zion No. 114. as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 11.1911.
Palmyra, Placerville . Consolida ted with Acacia No. 92. as Palmyra No. 26, Mar.
•
29, 1916.
Palmyra, Placerville. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26. Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia. Columbia, 1853. Consolida ted with T uolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No.
8. Dec. 12, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Sprinqs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.No. 78. as
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidat ed with Calaveras
Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13. 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa C lara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte. Bidwell. 1854. Charter surrendere d Sept. 3, 1861.
37 St. John's, Yreka, 1851. Consolida ted with Siskiyou No. 105, as St. John's No.
37, Oct. 11, 1876.
St. John's, Yreka. Consolida ted with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1921.
39 Yuba, Marysville , 1854. Consolidat ed with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No.
9. June 16, 1916.
17 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1851. Charter surrendere d Oct. 15, 1897.
18 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1851. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
50 Forbestow n, Forbestow n, 1854. Consolidat ed with Jellerson No. 97, as Forbes.
town No. 50. July 19, 1926.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendere d Novembe.r 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacrament o, 1854. Charter surrendered Ma_y JO, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendere d Feb. 20, 1875.
59 Gravel Ran9e, Camptonv ille, 1855. Consolida ted with Forest No. 66. as Gravel
Range No. 59, Sept 27, 1955.
62 GeorQe Washingto n, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolida ted with Tuolumne No. 8.
as Tuolumne No. 8. Sept 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29. 1857.

496
6i

66
67
69

71
72
73
7i
75
77

78

80
82
83
85
86
88
90
91
92
93
94
96
97

98
99

100
!02
105

107

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Natoma, Folsom, 1855. Consolidated with Latrobe No. 189, as Natoma No. 6i,
December 188i .
Forest, Allegheny, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, as Gravel
Range No. 59. Sept. 27, 1955.
Minnesota. Minnesota. 1855. Charter surrendered May Ji, 1859.
Independent Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2. 1855.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian No 9
December 1874.
· '
Nebraska, M ichigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, a3 Ione No. 80,
Oct. I 5, 1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada Cit~·. 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855 . Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin H ill. 1855. Charter surrendered Au>J. 29, 1857.
Moun tain Forest, Mountain Forest, 1855. Chartt'r surrendered May 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180. as Petaluma No.
180, December 1898.
Calaveras, San Andreas, 1855. Consolidated with Mokelumne No. 31, as Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Campo Seco No. JOO, as Calaveras
No. 78, October 1898.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Mokclumne Hill No. 298, as Calaveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
lone, lone, 1856. Consolidated with Nebraska No. 71, as lone No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Rising Star, Forest Hill. 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, as Eureka No.
16. Sept. 2. 1919.
Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings. 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115.
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17. 1874.
St. Mark's, Fiddletown. Charter revoked June 26. 1894.
Saint Louis, Howland's Flat. 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as
Gibsonville No. 158, November 1882.
Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman N o. 88. May 8. 1856.
Quitman. North Dloomllcld. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13. as Nevada No.
13, Oct. 13. 1910.
Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8. 1858.
North Star, Fort Jones, 1856. Consolidated with Owen No. 108, as North Star
No. 91. Oct. 15, 1908.
Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Mar. 29, 1916.
Caymus. Yountville, 1856. Moved to St. Helena and name chanQed to St. Helena
No. 93, Oct. 10. 1867.
Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
Howa rd, Yreka, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8. 1924.
Jefferson. La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158. as Jefferson
No. 97, Oct. 15. 1908.
Jefferson, La Porte, Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, as Forbestown No. SO.
July 19, 1926.
Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Moved to Hornitos and name changed to Hornitos
No. 98, May 1860.
La Grange. M erced, 1856. Consolida!ed with Yosemite No. 133. as Yosemite No.
99. Oct. 16. 1913.
Campo Seco, Campo Se<:o, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Cala
veras No. 78, O ctober 1898.
Manza nita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada
No. 13. Oct. 13. 1910.
Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as St. John's No. 37,
Oct. 11, 1876.
Franklin, Meadow Valley, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Folsom, Folsom, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8, December 1876.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

197

!08 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91. as Nortli Star
No. 91. Oct. 15. 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega. 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26. Oct. 11. 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, F iddletown, 1857. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85. as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17. 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Ja n. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with \Vestern Star No. 2, as Western Star No.
2. Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. Ji, 1870.
Napa City, Napa, Dispensation 1859, Charter never issued.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
131 Carpenter, Wood's Ferry, Dispensation 1858, was chartered in 1859 33 Wood~
bridge No. 131. the name of the location of the Lodge having been changed to
WoodbridQ!!.
132 Sincerity, Grl!enville, 1859. Consolidated with Greenville No. 249, as Sincerity
No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, as Yosemite
No. 99, O ct. 16. 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862.
138 Violet, SQanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
li2 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 2-+0,
April I. 1882.
.
Doric, North Fork, Dispensation 1861. Charter never issued.
1i8 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyre
No. 26, O ct. 16, 1902.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11. 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 13, 186i.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nevada Territory, 1862. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16. 1865.
155 Mount Carmel. Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
156 Woodland, Woodland, 1863. Consolidated with T yrian No. 281. as Woodland
No. 156. Oct. 11. 1911.
157 Washoe, Washoe .City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Juri.sdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16. 1865.
158 Gibsonvlf!c, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as J'ffer~
No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28. 186i.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill. 1863. Consolidated with Geor>1etown No. 25, as Georgetown
No. 25, December 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisd.iction
of Nevada, Jan. 16. 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada. Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine. Markleeville. Dispensation 1864, Charter never issued.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nevada Territory, 186i. Transferred to Jurl3diction of
Nevada. Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nevada Territory, 186i. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 186i. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada. Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, N evada Territory, 186i. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
175 Claiborne. Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch No. 175, Oct. 12, 1865.
.
.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Arizona Territory, 1866. Transferred to Jurisdict1on of Anzona.
Mar. 25. 1882.
180 Arcturas. Petaluma. 1866. Consolidated with Pctaltuna No. 77, as Petaluma No.
180, December 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle No. 182, O~t. 16, 1919.

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

PROCEE DING S OP THE

498

, Oct. JO, 1867.
, Nam e changed to Claiborne64
as Nato ma N o. 6"-i,
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867
No
ma
Nato
with
· •
Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated
189 Latrobe, 1884
.
Oct. 17,
rter surrendered July 20, 1872.
197 Paradise, Hay ward , 1869. Cha
1870. Cha rter never issued.
tion
ensa
Disp
lin,
Rock
,
n
li.
Rock
et No 205
solidated with Oliv et No. 364, as Oliv
•
Con
.
·
1870
.
ville
New
,
205 Newville .
Oct. I. 1917
.
1889
12,
Oct.
ked
revo
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Cha rter
Oct. 18, 1881
. Name changed to Mosaic No. 218.
as Inyo No. 221
218 Plea santon, Livermore, 1872
413,
No.
coba
Wau
with
olidated
'
221 Inyo, Independence, 1872. Cons
N
Jan. 10, 1915.
ville
Rose
as
432,
No.
ville
Rose
o.
lin. 1872. Consolidated with
222 Granite. Rock
222. May 29, 1919.
.
1877
17,
.
Nov
ed
nder
surre
. Cha rter
223 Mau i, Wai luku , Haw aii, 18731873 . Moved to San Mat eo and name chan ged t0
Moon Bay,
226 Hay ward , Half 226,
Oct. 13, 1905.
San Mat eo No.
15, 1897.
ille, 1873. Cha rter surrendered Oct.
ersv
Som
a.
Cost
227 Con tra
olidated with North East N 0 • 266 • as
Cons
.
1874
lle,
arvi
Ced
ey.
Vall
235 Surprise
.
Surprise V alley No. 235, July I, 1962ndered Oct. 16, 1884.
surre
rter
Cha
.
1875
Run,
Gold
,
238 Tyre
rter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
No 240
239 Pesca?ero, Pescadero, 1875. Cha
ted with Colusa No. 112, as Colusa
'
olida
.
Cons
.
1875
sa,
C.Olu
210 Equality, 882.
Apn l 1. I
erity
Sinc
as
132,
No.
erity
Sinc
nville, 1878. Consolidated with
249 Greenville, Gree
No. 132. Oct. 16. 1896.
l 19, 1888.
s. 1878. Cha rter surrendered Apri
251 Brot.herhoo?, Duncan's Mill
nedu mah No. 287, as Win nedu niah
Win
with
ted
olida
Cons
.
1878
e,
252 Bodie, Bodi 20, 191 8.
No. 287, Dec.
ett No. 456, as Reading No. 254.
Redding, 1879. Consolidated with Kenn
254 Reading , 1925
.
Dec. 19,
rdale No. 496, as Wel com e No.
Lemoore, 1879. Consolidated with Rive
255 Welcome, 18,
1943.
255, May
ed to Jurisdiction of AriArizona Terr itory. 1879. Tran sferr
257 Arizona. Phoenix,
.
1882
25.
ch
Mar
,
zona
1881, Tran sferr ed to Jurise. Arizona T erritory, Dispensation
5?1omon, To.mbstonMar
.
1882
25,
ch
ona,
Ariz
of
d1cttoo
Seap ort No. 550, as
Francisco, I 880. Consolidated with
260 K!ng Solomoo,'s. San ort
.
1963
5.
Dec.
260.
No.
Seap
s
Kmg Solo mon
ed to Jurisdiction of Arizona '
on, Arizona Terr itory , 1881. Tran sferr
263 Tucson, Tucs
.
1882
25,
Mar ch
a Mar ia No 340 as Hes'
a Maria, 1882. C.Onsolidated with Sant
·
264 Hesperian, SantOct.
.
1910
13,
264,
perian No.
235 as
No.
ey
Vall
rise
Surp
ell, 1882. Consolid ated with
'
266 North. East. Fort Bidw
.
1962
I.
July
235,
No.
ey
Surprise Vall
.
1895
10,
. Cha rter revoked Oct.
270 Pall River. Burgcttville. 1883
rter surrendered May 26. 1888.
277, Oct.
276 Wes tpor t. Wes tpor t, 1884. Cha
with Fow ler No. 398, as Selma No.
ted
277 r.f.l jgj ~elma, 1885. Consolida
d No. 156 as Woo dlan d
n. 1887. Consolidated with Woo dlan
'
284 T yrian, Dunniga
.
1911
11.
Oct.
No. 156,
e No. 252, as Winnedumah
Bodi
with
ted
olida
Cons
.
1887
op,
Bish
287 Winnedumah, 20,
191 8.
No. 287, Dec.
Oct. 12, 1899.
Nam e changed to East Gate No. 290,
290 Sunset, Los A~geles, 1888 . ne
Calaveras No 78 ' as
with
ted
olida
Cons
.
1890
Hill,
'
Mokelum
298 Mokelumne Hill.
Cala vera s No. 78, Dec. 25. 1919.
ard No. 341. as Oxn ard No.
Oxn
with
ted
olida
Cons
.
1892
eme,
311 Hueneme. Huen
341. Oct. I 6. 1902.
13, 190i.
e changed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct.
339 Espe ranz a .. Pullcrtoo. 1900. Nam
erian No. 264 as HesHesp
with
ted
olida
Cons
.
1900
ia,
'
340 Sa~ta Maria, Sant a Mar
pena n No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
as Oxn ard No · 341 '
311
No
eme
Huen
with
ted
olida
·
'
Oxn ard, 190 l. Cons
.
341 Oxn ard, 1902
.
Oct. 16,
Philippine Islands '
of
on
dicti
Juris
to
ed
sferr
Tran
.
P. I., 1901
342 Manila, Manila,
Dec. 19, 1912.

5

499

Philippine Islands, Dec.
1903. Tran sferr ed to Jurisdiction of
350 Cavite. Cavi te, P. I..
19. 1912.
with Vict ory No. 474, as San
Sao Francisco, 1904. Consolidated
360 San Francisco,
.
1961
29.
.
Nov
Francisco-Victory No. 360. olidated with Newville No. 205, as Oliv et No. 205,
. Cons
364 Olivet, Com ing, 1904
Oct. I. 1917.
Rock No. 536, as Amitycisco, 1905, Consolidated with Seal
370 Amity, San Fran
.
I. 1963
Seal Rock No. 370, Mar ch
to Lodge le Prog res de
, Oah u, T . H .. 1905. Name chan ged
371 Oceanic, Honolulu Oct. 12, 1916.
l'Oceanie No. 371.
Angeles No. 373, Oct. 12,
1906. Name changed to Wes t Los
373 Vete ran, Sawtelle,
664, as El Cen tro No.
1939.
ro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasi s No.
I d
384 El Centro, El Cent
38i. Aug . 30, 1937. P. I .. 1907. Tran sferr ed to Jurisdiction of Philippine Is an s,
0
386 Corregidor, Manila,
Selma No. 277, ct.
as
277,
Dec. 19. 1912.
No.
a
Selm
with
ated
solid
. Con
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908
N 221 •
I
. Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as nyo o.
14, 1915
,
coba
Wau
413
ia No. 438, as Arlington
Jan. IO, 1945.
Ang eles. 1910. Consolidated with Acac
N
414 Arlington, Los
.
as Rosevllle o.
222,
No. 414. Sept. 28. 1959
No.
ite
Gran
with
ted
olida
, 1912. Cons
432 Roseville. Roseville
.
222, May 29. 1919.
to Acacia No. 438, Oct. 16. 1918
Angeles, 1913. Nam e changedgton
as Arlington No. 414.
414,
No.
138 Germania, Los
Arlin
with
ted
olida
Acacia . Los Angeles. Cons
c k
Sept. 28. 1959. Francisco, 1915. Consolidated with Crocker No. 454. as roe er
453 Bethlehem, San 1961.
No. 451. Apri l I.
No. 453, as Croc ker No.
, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem
454 Crocker. Daly City
254, as Reading No. 254,
~54 , April I. 1961.
1915. Consolidated with Reading No.
456 Kennett, Kennett,
Dec. 19, 1925.
Francisco No. 360, as Sao
cisco. 1919. Consolidated with San
474 Victory, San Fran No. 360, Nov . 29. 1961.
Francisco-Victory
e No. 255, as Wel com e
, 1921. Consolidated with Wel com
I
496 Riverdale, Riverdale
.
370, as Amity-Sea
No.
ty
No. 255, May 18. 1943
Ami
with
ted
olida
Cons
.
cisco, 1922
536 Seal Rock , San F.ran
1963.
h Hollywood .No.
Rock No. 370, March 1. ywo
od, 1923. Name chan ged to Nort
h Holl
640, as Ventas.No.
tas
Veri
542 Lankershim, Nort
with
ted
olida
Cons
cisco. 1923.
545 Jonathan, San Fran
1963.
Jonathan No. 545. Dec. 3,
King Solomon's No. 260, as
Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with
550 Seaport, San Seap ort No. 260. Dec. 5, 1963.
E
King Solomon 's
542, Oct. 12, 1950. Francisco. 1923. Consolidated with Educ ator No. 554. as duSan
.
City
en
553 Gold
.
cator No. 55i, Feb. 16, 1940
en City No. 553, as Edu aFran cisco, 1923. Consolidated with Gold
554 Educator, San
1940.
Wes t. No. 628, as
cato r No. 554, Feb. 16.1924
. Consolidated with Beac on of the
597 Trut h. Los Angeles, 14, 1939.
Trut h No. 628, Feb.
the name of the community
nsmouth , 1925. Subsequent toLodg
e was changed to Cano ga
611 Owensmouth, Owe
the
of
name
being changed to Can oga Park , the
.
Park No. 611. Oct. 15. 1931
ple City No. 612, Oct. 10,
ple City , 1925. Name changed to Tem
612 Wor kma n, Tem
Dolley No. 616, Oct. 14,
1929.
Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E.
616 Seal Beach, Seal
with Trut h No. 597, as
1937.
t, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated
628 Beacon of the Wes 14, 1939.
Trut h No. 628, Feb. , 1926. Consolidated with Jonathan No. 545, as Veri tascisco
640 Veritas. San Fran
.
Jonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963
38i, as El Cent ro No.
. Copsolidated with El Cen tro No.
N 799
664 Oasis, El Cent ro, 1928
.
38i. Aug. 30, 1937
c:hanged to Clairemont Mesa o.
e
Nam
o.
Dieg
San
a,
Vist
re
799 Bay ClaJ
Octo ber 15, 1964.

500

Since Ifs Organ izatio n, April 18, A. L . 5850

1850

1858

W illiam H . Howar d ...- .G. M.
J ohn A. Raymo nd.... D. G. M.
Lemue l Lyon......._____S. G. W .
Pete r W . Rendle ...... J. G. W .
Add ison Mertin.............. G. T.
Alex G . Abe ll ................ G. S.

1857

Nathaniel G . Curtis ..... G . M.
WHhln 9lon No. 20
Born Fob. 11 IUS
Died Julr lz, 1"7
Cherle s Marsh ............ D. G. M.
Aeron D. ParL.......... S. G . W .
J ohn B. Pop e .............. J. G . W .
Add ison Ma rtin ........... _.G . T.
Alex G. Abell ··- ···- -.. 6 . S.

1851
John A. Tutt... ............... G . M.
Teh1mo No . J
lorn Feb. 4, 1111
Died Mir It, 1900
S.nj. D. Hyam ......... 0. G . M.
E. F. F. Ellis·--·········- S. G . W .
8enj. S. Olds.._......_ ..J . G . W.
Townsend A. Thomes ...... G. T.
Levi Stowell...................... G . S.

1858

1852

1853
Charle s M. Radcliff... ...G. M.
Tuolumne No. 9
l orn F.b. 5, 1111
Died Ooc. JI, 1819
r. A. Thomu........... ... D. G . M.
J no. R. Crende ll........S. G. W .
Richard F. Knott........ J . G . W.
Addiso n Martin............ .. G. T.
Levi Stowell...•...____ _______ G. S.

1854
W illiam H . Howar d ..... G . M,
Son Jose No. 10
lorn Au9. 79, 1110
Died Sept. II, llU
Neth. G . Curtis ........ D. G . M.
Rector E. C ole.....- .. S. G . W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J . G . W .
Addiso n Mertln............ .. G. T.
Levi Stowell ...................... G . S.

l85:i

G ,,
d
H H
W'll'
• owar ...... . M ,
I 1em
T. A. Tho mes ....•- ....... 0. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond- .... S. G . W .
Sam. A. Merrit t.. _....J . G. W .
Addison Marth1 .•.- •.....•.. G . T.
Le.I Stowell - · -...6. S.

1863
""'.ifliem C. Bolche r..__ G, M.
Gil. B. Cleib orne...... D. G M
Lo uis Cohn ....·-··--... S. G ' w·
Wm. A. Devies .......... J. G :
James leidley...........•.. - .. G . T,
Alex G. Aboll..................G. S.

w:

1864
Will iem C. Belche r...- ... G. M
Gil. B. Claibo rne...- .0. G, ~i
Wm. A. Devies.......... S. G.
Isaac S. Titus..............J. G, W.
Ja mes Leidley.......- .. - •...G. T.
Aler G. Abe ll ...- ......•....G. S

w:

1865

Nathan iel G. C urtis ......G. M.
P. W. Sheph eard ...... D. G. M. I G ilbe rt B. C laiborn e ......G , M.
Wm. McC ormicL . ...S. G. W .
~:~nJ:':ijuln No, If
Jas. W. Bidnel l ........J . G . W .
Died Dec. I, 1909
Addiso n Marlin ··-······- -·G. T. W rr:.. A. Davies.......... D. G . M.
S.
.
G
....
Alu G . Abell ...........
Isaac S. Titus ........... ...S. G . W.
1859
Henry H . Hartle y...... J . G . W ,
Nathan iel G . C urtis ..... G. M. J ames Leidley......•........... G . T.
P. W. Shephe ard ...... D. G . M. Alex G. Abell .............. - ..G. S.
Ebenez er Lane.......... S. G . W .
Thos. P. Hawley........J . G . W.
1866.
Add ison Martin .............. G. T.
t B. Cleibo rne ...... G . M.
Aler G . Abell .......... .... G. S. Gilber
Henry H . Hertle y...•.. D. G . M.
1860
Wm. H . Peterso n ...... S. G . W .
Nathan iel G . C urtis ..... G . M. Thomes Becl. ............J . G . W.
P. W . Shephe ard ......D. G . M. James Leidley _______________ G, T.
Wm. C . Belche r........S. G . W . Aler G . Abell ........... . - ...G . S.
Alvinia Haywa rd ......J . G. W.
Addiso n Martin ............. G . T.
1867
Al ex G. AbelL ........... -. G . S.
William A. Devies.......... G. M.
1861
Columb la No. 19
Born Fob. 5, 1117
James L En9lish............ G . M.
40
No.
onto
Died Juno 20, ltl6
Secrom
Born Juno S, lllJ
H . H ertley.... D. G . M.
Henry
118'
2',
Died May
BocL ............ S. G . W.
Thomu
M.
G.
D.
Wm. C . Belcher........
E. Pratt......J . G . W.
es
Leonid
W.
John W. Herville...... S. G.
Leidley...- ......G . T.
A.
mes
a
J
W.
.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ... J . G
G . Abell.............. .... G . S.
James Leidley ........... ..... G . T. Alex
Alex G . AbelL . ___ .......... G . S.

S.njam in D. Hyam. -.... G . M.
Bonlclo No. 5
lorn Morch I, lllJ
Died July 12, I8'J
Chas. M. Radcliff ...... D. G . M.
Addiso n Martin ........- - ... G .T.
J . R. McCon nell ...... _J . G . W .
Addiso n Martln.......•...- ... G . T.
Levi Stowell..........._ ......... G . S.

1862

!

William C . Belcher. ....... G. M.
Corlnth lu No. 6'
lorn Dec. 11, 1120
Died Sept. I, lt9S
Gil. B. C laiborne- ... D. G . M.
John W . Harvllle ...... S. G . W .
John B. Hewson ........ J . G. W.
James La ldlay .................. G . T.
A.le• G. Abell· --·- ·-···· · S.

1878

1869

M.
Elected Officers Gran d Lodge of California, F. & A.
Jonath an D. Stevenson .. G. M.
C1llfornl1 No. I
lorn Jon. I, 1900
Died Fob. 14, 1"4
John A. Tutt .............. D. G . M.
Caleb Fenner......•._.$, G. W .
Sashel Woods........... .J . G. W.
Levi Stowell.._.................. G. T.
John H. Gihon.... - .....•.... G . S.

501

GRAN D LODG E O F CALI F ORNIA

PROC EEDI NGS O F THE

1868

Cha rles Marsh....•......._..G . M.
Novedo No. IJ
lorn Doc. 6 192S
Died April 21, 1176
Theo. G . Coch ilL ... S. G. W.
Leonides E. Prett...... D. G. M.
Fredt F. Berss.......... J . G . W.
James Laldley.................. G . T.
Alex G. Abell... .. .......G . S.

I

1893

.-........ . G . M. J on atha n D. Hines..._ .. G , M.
M., J ohn M.L WBrowne
Sen l uonovenlura No. 214
D G M.
1' 99'1 n

Le onidas E. Prett.......... G.
Mounta in Shed• No. II
8crn Au9. 2', lllJ
Died Oct. 25, 11186
hue S, Titus........•.•... D. G . M.
John S. W erd .. _....•...S. G . W .
Richar d De le ........... ...J . G . W .
.lames leidley .. _ ..........._.G , T.
Alex G . Abell ........·-······ G. S .

Ch.I
lorn Jen. I, 1125
··--· ' · W '
• '
Died Doc. 30, tm
·1
Wm. S. Wells ........._.S. G.
........D. G . M.
Solon W. Creigu e....J . G. W. Wiley J . Tinnin
... _.S. G. W,
James Leidley .................. G. T. Edm. C. At• inson
......J . G . W.
Alex G . Abell..._.............G . S. Hiram N. Rucker
Moses H eller ········-· ··· ...G . T.
1877
Alex G. Abell ........... .......G . S.
John M. Browne ............ G . M.
1870
Chas. L. W iggin ......D. G . M .
188,
Leo nrdes E. Prett............ G . M. W m. W. Treylor........ S. G. W.
........ G . M.
hue S. Tilu1........... .D. G. M . W m. 11. C rene ..........J . G . W. Jonath an D. Hines
........ D. G . M.
Cha s. L. Wi9 9in ........ S. G . W . Moses Heller ···--·-······-·G · T. W iley J. Tinnin
S. G . W.
Be nj. H. Fre emen ...... J . G . W . Alex G. Abell .................. G. S. j Edm. C . At•inson...... G. W ,
Rucker......J .
N.
m
Hira
T,
.
G
····
··········idley.
J ames le
MMes Heller ........... .......G. T.
1878
Alex G . Ai. ell ............ ..... G. S.
G . Abell...- .............G. S.
Ale•
John M . Browne ........... .G. M.
1871
M.
G.
D.
W m. W. Treylor _______
Le onides E. Prett..........G . M.
1885
W m. H. Crane .......... S. G . W .
Chu . L. W i99in .. ...... D. G. M.
Ro bt. C. Broder.._....J . G . W . Wile y J. Tinnln ....... _.....G . M.
Ben. H. Freema n ...... S. G . W .
Moses H eller .................. G . T.
TrlnllJ No. 11
Geo. C. Per• ins........J . G . W.
Born Oct. 7, IB2•
Alex G. Ab ell ........... .......G. S.
T.
G.
.......
...........
laldley
ames
J
Died Nov. 24, 1910
S.
---·G·
Ed m. C . At•inso n...... D. G . M.
Alex G . Abell ··········1879
Hirem N. Ruder - ....S. G. W.
1872
Willia m W. Traylor........ G. M. He nry H. Knapp .____J , G . W .
I
C1llfornl1 No.
Leonid es E. Prett.......... G. M .
Nathan W Spau ld in9 .... G . T.
Born March 17, 1822
Benj. H. Freeme n ...... D. G. M.
Died Jen. 18, IBIJ
G. Abell.. ___............G . S.
Alex
G e o. C. Perkins........ S. G. W. Sa muel C. Denson.. .. D. G. M.
J ohn M. Browne..._ ..J . G . W. Clay W. TayloL..... S. G . W.
1886
James leidley .............._.,G . T. J ohn Q. Adams ...... .. J . G . W .
Alex G. Abell ....·-········ .G. S. Moses H all er ········-- ·-····G. T. Edmun d C. At kinson .... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
A lex G. Ab ell ........... .......G. S.
l orn Nov. 17.1...1837
1873
Died Morch IV, 191 I
h eoc S. Titus........... .....G . M.
1880
Hiram N. Rucker...... D. G . M.
Son Joaquin No. It
lorn Oct. 14 1827 •
Samuel C . Denson........G. M. Morris M . Estee........ S. G. W .
Died April 22, 18'2
Union No. S8
Alvah R. Conkli n......J . G . W.
Born Sept. 2J , Im
Geo. C . Per•ins... _... D. G . M.
Na than W S peuldin 9 .... G . T.
Died July 26, " "
Jno. M. Browne ........S. G . W.
M.
.
G. Abell ...- .............G . S.
G
D.
Alex
....
_
..
eylor
T
W.
C has. E. Mitche lL...J . G. W . Clay
........ S. G . W.
James Laidley.....•..... ..- ... G . T. John Q. Adams
becL .J . G . W.
1887
Alex G. Abell ..................G . S. 0. W , Hollen
Mons H eller ........... ......G . T. Hiram N. Ruck'" ..... - .. G. M.
1874
Alu G. Abell .............- ... G . S.
La Granqo No. 9'
Born Sopt. 6, I844
G eor9e C. Pe rklns ........ G. M.
Dl•d Dec. IJ, l!OS
1881
Orovlllo No. 103
........D. G. M.
Born Auq. 23, Ill'
Clay W . Teylor. -......... G. M. Morris M. Estee
Died Fob. 26,
No. 2
Alvah R. C onklin ...... S. G. W
Star
WHtern
M.
.
J ohn M. Browne .••- ... D. G
Born Sept. 10 1944
Wm. J o~ nsfon..........J . G . W .
Died Mar I, 1m
W m. B. Perhr..... - ...S. G . W ,
Nathan W Spauld ing .... G . T.
M.
.
G
D.
Wiley J. Tinnin..........J. G. W . John Q . A dams........
G . Abell .................. G. S.
Alex
T.
G.
__
.
______
.
W
James Leidley
Jonath a n D. H ines ...S. G.
S.
.
G
___
W.
.
______
Alex G. Abell.. __
Thos. J . Bowers........ _J, G
1888
Moses H eller ........... .... - .G. T.
1875
A lex G. Abell .................. G. S. Morris M. Estee . .......... G. M.
Californl• No. I
John M. Browne............ G. M.
Born Nov. 23, 1834
1882
87
N•¥11 No.10,
1131
Died Oct. 7, 190)
Born M•J
... G. M.
...........
Teylor
W.
Clay
Died Doc. 7, 11'4
Alvah R. Conkli n...... O. G. M.
M.
G.
D.
....
ines
H
D.
n
a
Jonath
M.
.
G
D.
..
Ches. L Wi99in.. _
G. W.
n ......S. G. W. W ill iam J ohnsto n ......S.
Wiley J. Tlnnin.......... S. G . W. Edm. C. AHinso
Mere. D. Boruek........J . G . W .
W.
G.
J
..•...
_
...
Hinds
eorge
G
.
W
.
Jacob H . NefL .......J . G
i ng ....G. T.
....... G. T. Nathan W Spauld
JemH l..aldle y..........•...•_.G, T. Moses Heller ...........
Ale1 G . Abell. _ __ ___ 6 , 5.
S.
.
··G
·-··-····
.....
Alei G . Abelf __ ....... - .. - G. S. Alex G. Abell

"n

I

502

1907
6eorge M. P'•rlne........ G. M.

1111

1895

Merrla M. &t"---··-·G• M.
Wllliem John.ton _.. D. G . M.
Ch... R. Grltmen......S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme_ ...J . G. W.
Nethen W Spudding .._G. T.
Alex G. Abell ____..G. S.

Edward M. P'reiton. -... G . M.

Williem S. Wells.._ _ & M

Wm. T. Luces _ _... D. G. M.
Thomes Flint......._ .. S. G. W.
F. M. AngellottL ....J . G. W.
Edward Colamen...- .....G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

O . S. Hendenon._ .. D. G. M
Chu. W . Nutting ....S. G. w'
Geo. W . Hunter ___J . G
Edward Colemen..._ .....
r·
George Johnson ···-······G•
Wm. H. Edwards ............ G. L

1890
Alveh R. ConHln............ G. M.

1101

Nevada No. I)
lorn May 4, 1141
Died Aprll 24, 190l

1898
William T. lucu............ G. M.

Inyo No. 221
lorn IUS
Dl.d Oct. I , 1"7

Williem Johnaton.___ O. G . M.
Ches. R. Gritmen.._S. G . W.
Henry S. Orme_ ..... J. G . W.
Nathan W Speuldlng .... G. T.
George Johnson ···-·······G. S.

1891
Wllliem J ohnston .......... G. M.
Ftanklln Ho. 143
lorn June 2, 1821
Died Nov. 14, 1905

Guadelupe No. 237
lorn March II, llSO
Died March 21, 1'11

Thomes Rlnt... ........... D. G. M.
F. M. AngellottL __S, G. W.
Chu. L. Petton ........J . G. W.
Ed"'ard Coleman ............ G . T.
George Johnson ............G S.

1897
Thomas Rint ---·-·····G. M.
Texas No. '46
l orn May It 1111
Died Nov. It, 1916

Chu R. Gritmen ...... D. G . M.
Henry S. Orme ........S. G. W.
Jes. B. Steven1..........J . G. W.
Nethen W Speulding ....G. T.
George Johnson ···-·······G• S.

F. M. Angellottl........ D. G. M.
Chas L Patton ..........S. G . W .
Ja1. A. Foshey_____J, G. W.
Edward Colemen ..._ _ G. T.
George Johnson -·-······G• ~.

1892

1898

Cherle1 R. Gritmen ...... G. M.

Frenk M. Angellottl...... G. M.

Yount No. 12
lorn Dec. 10, Int
Died May 14, 11'4

Marin No. ltl
lorn Sept. 4, 1161
Died May n. 1m

Henry S. Orme ... _... D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens..........$. G. W.
Edw. M. Pre1ton_ .....J . G. W.
Nethen W Spaulding .... G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.

Chu. L Patton _ .... D. G. M.
Jaa. A. Foshey ___s. G. W .
Wm. S. Wells...- ..... .J. G . W .
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.

1893

1899

Henry S. Orme.............. G. M.

m

So. C.llfornl• Ho.
lorn Marc h 25, llJ7
Died Nov. 2', ltlJ

Jes. 8. Stevens.......... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston........S. G. W .
Wm. T. lucu_ ........J. G. W.
Edwerd Coleme11... _ _ _G . T.
George Johnson ··--··-G. S.

1894
Jemes II. Stevena .......... G. M.
Yount No. 12
lor n Marci! 27i 1141
Died DK. 6, hit

Edw. M. Preston.... - .D. G. M.
Thomes Flint.........._.J . G. W.
Wm. T. lucu ......_.S. G. W.
Edward Coleman ____..G. T.
$eorge Joh111on --·-···6• S.

Charlea L Patton.......... G . M.
C.llfornla No. I
l orn 1161
Died Aprll "·Im

Jea. A. Fo1hay_ ...... D. G. M.
Wm. S. Well1.........
G. w.
0 . S. Henderson......J . G. W.
Edwerd Colemen............ G. T.
George Johnson ..._ ..... G. S.

_s.

1900
Jams•' A. Foshey............G. M.
o. Callfornle No. 271
lorn Nov. 21, 1156
Died Jan. 14, 1914

Wm. S. Wells ....._ .. D. G. M.
0. S. Henderson ......S. G . W .
Ches. W. Nutting....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G . T.
George Johnson ····-·-···G • S.
Wm. H. Edward1....._ ....G. L

503

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF O RNIA

PROCEEDI NGS OP TH E

Martin.. No. 41
lorn June 24 1161
Died Jan.
191'

n:

·

•

hdOc H•. 116
•

w·
G.

s:

1902
Orrin S. Henderson ......G. M
Mornln9 Star No. 68
lorn June 1 1163
Died June 25, IMI

•

Ches. W. Nutting ....D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter._$, G. W
Motley H. Rint..._ J . G. w·
Edwerd Colemen............ G.
George Johnson ---....G .
Wm. H. Edward1____ E;. L

r:

s.

1903
Charles W. Nutting ... _ G, M.
Evenln9 Star No. 116
l orn Oct. ) 1112
Died Sept. iO, 1917

Ge o. W , Hunter ...... 0. G. M
Motely H. Flint........S. G. w·
Edw. H. Hart............J. G. w·
Edwerd Col•m•n. _ _ _ G.
Geor9e Johnson ·--...... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards....._ .. G. L

r:

190,
Georg• W . Huntar......G. M.
Humboldt .N o. 7'
l orn 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1'21

Motley H. Flint._ __ D. G . M.
Edw. H. Hart..... _ ... S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perin• ..- ... J . G. W .
Edward Colaman...- .......G . T.
George Johnson ............G . S.
Wm. H. Edwerd1............G . L

1905

Motley H. Flint_ ___.. G. M.
&rt &ala Ho. 2'0
lorn Feb. It, 1161
Died July 14, 1910

Ed ..ard H. Hart........ D. G. M.
G•o. M. Perine__ $. G. W.
Reuben H. Lloyd......J . G. W.
Edward Colemen. .._.......G . T.
George J ohnson ____ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..... _ .G. L

1906
Edward H. Hart ....- .....G. M.
live Oak No. 61
lorn 1151
Died Sept. 26, "17

Geo. M. Pe rine........ D. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd ......S. G. W.
Oscer Lawler ____J . ~. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
Georg• Johnson _ _.. G. S.
Wm. H. Edward1 _ ___6 , L

1911

1913
_ G. M.

CherlH Alb•rt Adams...6 . M.

Benj. F. Bledso• ........ D. G. M.
Alb. G. Burnatt.._ S. G . W .
F. V. KHslinCJ.--·-···J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmar..........G . T.
John Whicher.._..............G. S.
Thom•• J . Bek•r..............G . L

G•o. F. Rodd•n ........ D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke.....- .... S. 6 . W .
Wm. A. Sherman ......J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Which•r..........- ..G. S.
Thome• J . Baker.............. G. L

John D. Murphay _

lern 1•2
DI.cl Oct. 6, lnl

R•uben H. Lloyd ......D. G. M.
01cer Lewler............S. G. W.
W. Frank P'ierce._ ...J. G. W .
Edwerd Colemen ............G . T.
G•org• Johnson ___•.G. S.
Thomes J . llekar......- .•...G. L

1908

Alta Ho. UJ
lorn July 7, 116)
Died Sept. 11, 1941

191'
Benj. F. Bl•dso• ............ G. M.

&celslw Ne. 166
lorn Nov. JS, 11'1
Died May I, 1962

1920
Gaor9• F. Rodden ........G. M.

Oscar Lewlar
..
G. M.
Marin No. ltl
San lernardlno No. 141
lorn D.c.24, 1167
bst &.ta N•. 2'0
l o rn Feb. I , 1174
Died March I, ltM
lorn April 2. 1171
Died Oct. JO, 1'31
W. Frank Pierce........D. G. M. Alb . G. Burnett....- .0 . G. M. Sam. E. Burk• ............ D. G . M.
Dan• R. Weller __.S. G. W . F. V. KHsling _ __.. S. G . W . Wm. A. Sharmen_ .S. G. W.
A. J . Monroe......._.J. G. W . W. Rh. Harvey..........J . G. W. Arthur S. Crifes_ .. _ J . G. W .
Edward C olemen............G. T. Wm. Parker FilmeL ........G . T. Wm. Parker Filmer_ .... G. T.
John Whlch•r.................. G. S. John Whicher..................G. S. John Whichar........- ...•.. G. S.
Thomu J. lleker..............G. L. ThomH J. Baker ___ ...... G . l. Thomu J . Bekar.............. G. L

1909

1915

W. Frank Plerc•............G. M.

Albert G . Burnatt.......... G . W .

Oakland No. llt
lorn Jan. 1', llSS
Died Oct. l, 1'10

Dana R. Waller ........0 . G. M.
A. J . Monroe............S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ..........J . G. W .
Edward Coleman ............G . T.
J ohn Whicher..........- .....G. S.
Thomes J . Baker..............G. L

Santa ltosa No. S7
l orn Aprll 9, 1156
Died Au9. IS, ltn

1910

1916
Francis V. KHsling........G . M.
California No. I
Born Feb. 17, 1177
Died Se pt. :ZS. 19'3

A. J . Monro• ............ D. G. M. Wm. Rh. Hervey..... D. G . M.
Wm. P. Filrnar........:.S. G. W . Bradford Wabstar....S. G . W .
J . D. Murphey ···-····J . G. W. Charles A. Adams....J . G . W.
Ed ward Colaman ............G . T. W m. Parker Filmar ....._ .G . T.
J ohn Whicher.................. G. S. J ohn Which•r .................. G . S.
ThomH J. Bakar .............. G. l. ThomH J. Bekar .............. G . l.

1911
Alon%o J . Monro•.......... G. M.
Humboldt No. 7'

l orn Oct. It, 1151

Died Juno 14, 1922

Wm. P. Filmer..........D. G. M.
J . 0 . Murphey..........S. G. W .
Benj. F. Bl•dsoe........J . G. W .
Edward Coleman..._ .. G, T.
J ohn Whicher.._ .............G . S.
ThomH J . Bak•r ......---G. L

1912
Wm. P'. Filmer........- _ .. G. M.
Kln9 Solo mo n No. 2'0
l orn March 2, 1164
Dlod Nov. 22, IMJ

Sunset No. !SJ
l orn Feb. ll, 1170
Died Feb. 14, 1961

F. V. Keeslin9 ............D. G. M. Wm. A. Sherman ......D. G. M.
Wm . Rh. Hervey ...... S. G. W. Arthur S. Crltes........S. G. W.
Bradford W•bster....J . G . W. David J . RHH..........J. G. W .
W m. Perk•r Filmer.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whichar. _........... G. S. John Whicher_ ......- ... G. S.
ThomH J . Baker ...·-··- ···G. L Thomu J . Beker._ ......... G. L

.D an• R. Wall•r..............G . M.
So. Ca11fornl• No. 271
l orn March 24, 1174
DI.cl Jan. t. IM7

1921

Semu•I E. Burke ___..G. M.

1917
Wm. Rhodt1 Hervey.... G. M.
hntalph• No. 202
lorn March 26. tl70
Died F.b. I, 1'51

Bradford Webster....D. G . M.
Charles A. Adams....S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher............... - G. S.
Th omH J. Bak•r···-···-··G. L

1918
Bradford Webster ...._.G. M.
Liva Oak Ho. 61
lorn Dae. 14, 1169
Dlod June 4, 1941

1922

William A. Sherman......G. M.
Presidio No. lS4
l o rn Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. It. 1940

Arthur S. Crit•1..._ .. D. G . M.
David J . RH1t ..........S. G. W .
Alb. E. Boynton.....- J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmu ..........G . T.
John Whicher.............- ...6 . S.
Thomaa J . Bek•r.,_.........G. L

1923
Arthur S. Crites ............ G. M.
BakertOald No. 224
lorn Feb. 4, I 17t
Died Apr. 21, 1'57

David J. RHH.-......0. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton ........$. G. W .
Geo. L. Jonas............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G . T.
J ohn Whicher.......... - .....6 . S.
Thomea J . Bahr_ .........G. L

192'
David J. Reese ...........- G . M.
San luenaventure Ne. 214
lorn Au9.
1171
Died Nov. 9, lfM

n.

Alb. E. lloynton........ D. G. M.
Jno. D. Murphey...... D. G. M. Charl•s A. Adema....D. G. M.
G•o. L J on es........._ S. G. W.
Banj. F. Bled1oe ........S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ...- ..S. G. W . W
ill H. Fisch•r._____J . G. W .
Alb. G. Burnett ........J . G. W . Sam. E. Burke ............J . G . W.
Wm. Park•r Film•r.. _ ..... G. T.
Edward Col•m•n ............G . T. Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T. J ohn Whlcher.
__ .........6.
Joh11 Whlcher.._..............G. S. J ohn Which•r._ .............. G. S. Thom•• J. laker____ &. S.
L
Thomu J. Bek•r ... - . -G. L ThomH J . Beker...- ...... G. L

504

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1925

Albert E. loynton ..........c;. M.
Ore•llle M'o.101
lorn Oct. t, 1171
Dlo411 Fob. :n, 1941

1931

1937

Robt. B. Goylord ......- .. G. M.

James T. FraHr....- ....•...G. M

Ooklond No. IU
lorn No•. 24, 1176
Died Auq. 4, 1953

1943
•

Humboldt No. 7t
Born Au11. 21, 1841
Clod Juno 2', ltU

Geo. L. Jonea............ D. G. M. Frank W . Mider...... D. G. M .
Leon 0. Whitsell ...._D. G M
Will H. Fischer. _.. S. G. W . James B. G ist.........-.S. G . W .
Weste.... S. G."
G.,,. A. Hut1ff..........J . G. W . Wm. A. Sitton .......... J. G . W . William H.
William B. Ogden •...J. G.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
Wm, Parker Filmer.....- ... G . T. W m. Parker Filmer.....- ...G. r"
John Whicher..................G . S. John Wh icher..- ............ G. S.
•
Thomas J. 81ker.............. G. L. Thomu J . Baker..............G . L. John Whicher_···-··-··---G. 5
Leslie E. Wood ................ G ,

w·
w·

L

1921

George L. Jones............G. M.
Modlson No. 2J
lorn Moy II, 117J
Died June 22, 1956

Will H. Fischer........ D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff..........S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg....J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G . T.
John Whicher...........- ..... G . S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L.

1927
Will H. Fischer.............. G. M.
Wllahlre No. 4C5
l orn Sept. 11 , 1171
Died Oct. 4, ltsJ

1932
Frank W. Mixter............ G. M.
EHier No. 424
Born Doc. 30, 187J
Died Moy 22, 1947

James B. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton .......... S. G. W .
R. V. Whiting ............J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G . T.
John Whicher.................. G. 5.
Thomas J. Baker......_...... G. L.

1933
Jomes B. Gist.·-····--·-··G . M.
Pentolpho No. 202
Born Au11. 8, 1868
Died April 25, 1954

Gus. A. HutafL....... D. G. M. R. V. Whiling ...._ ...... D. G . M.
C. M. Wollenberg ....S. G. W.
Eorl Worren.............. S. G . W.
J. S. Ross....................J . G. W . Rollie W. Miller........J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T. W~ . l'arker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
John Whicher.................. G . S.
Thomas J . Baker..............G . L. Thomas J. Baker.............. G . L.

1928

Gustav A. Hut1fL.......G . M.
Dunamulr No. 2'7
lorn Oct. 5 Im
Died Oct. 17, ltlJ

C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G . M.
J. S. Ross.......... _...... S. G . W.
Robt. B. G1ylord......J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher ..... _........... G . 5.
Thomas J. Boker.........._.. G . L.

1929
C, M. Wollenberg ........ G. M.
Storr Kln11 No. )44
lorn Morch IJ, 117)
Died Oct. 22, "62

John 5. Ross.............. D. G. M.
Robt. B. G1ylord ......S. G . W .
Frank W. Mirter........J. G . W.
Wm. Porker Filmer.......... G . T.
John Whicher.................. G . 5.
Thomu J . Ba kor.............. G. L.

1930
John Stewert Ross .....•.. G . M.
El Centro No. JM
l orn Moy 21 187'
Died Au11. J 1• lts2

Robt. B. Gaylord ...... D. G . M.
Frank W. Mirter........ S. G . W ,
James B. Gist.. ..- ......J. G . W.
Wm. Parker F'ilmer.....- ... G . T.
John Whicher... - ............. G . S.
ThomH J. Baker.... ______ G, L

Claude H. Morri1on ...... G. M.
Son Dl190 No. 31
lorn July 10, 1117
Died No•. 2, 1'51

G ilbert C. DeForest .. D. G . M.
Lawrence C . Kelley.. S. G . W .
Arthur W . Brouillet..J. G. W .
Francis V. KHsling ..... _.G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.·- -·- ·-···G. S.
Chester H . Warlow.... - .. G. L

19H

1938
loon 0 . Whitsell......... G. M
•

Oran9e Grove No. 2ti
Sorn July 10, 1876

William H. Waste.... D. G . M
William B. Ogden.... S. G. w·
Lloyd E. Wilson.-.....J. G. w·
Wm. Porker Filmer...- ..... G .
J ohn Whicher.................. G. S
Leslie E. Wood ............ .....G .

Gilbert C. DeForest...... G. M.
RHdfn9 No. 254
lorn Sept. II, lllt
Died J•n. 25, lts2

L

Lawrence C . Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet.. S. G . W.
John R. Moore..........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........ G. L

William B. 09den- .....G. M

Lawrence C. Kelley......G. M.

·r:

1939
Hollywood No. 355
Born Auq. 26, 1176
Died Sept. 12, 1'154

•

Lloyd E. W ilson.-..... 0. G. M.
Frank M. Smifh ........ S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ........ J. G. W.
W m. Parker Filmer.. - ...... G . T.
John Whicher................. G. S.
Walter leonerd .............. G. L

19·&5
Pent1lph1 No. 202
lorn July 2J, 118'
Died Oct. 24, IMS

Arthur W . Brouillet...... G . M.
Pork No. 449
Born Jon. 21, 1114
Died Sept. 18, 19SJ

1934

1940

John R. Moor•..- ...S. G. W .
Francis V. Keesling ........ G . T.
Uoyd E. Wilson ........- ....G. S.
Chester H. W1rlow_...... G . L.

Randolph V. Whiting .. G. M.

Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. M.

1946

Klnq Solomon No. 260
lorn No•. 30, 1170
Died Feb. 4, 1'152

lnqleslde N o. 630
Born Au9. 16 1895
Died No•. 2.' 1961

Earl Warren .............. D. G. M. Frank M. Smith .......... D. G. M.
Rollie W . Miller........ S. G. W , Leslie E. Wood ........ S. G . W .
Ja mes T. Fraser........J. G . W. Claude H . Morrison .. J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Fjl.,,er......... G . T. Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher_................ G . S. J o hn Whicher .................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G . L. Walter Leonord .............. G . L

1935
Eerl Worren .................... G. M.
S.quol1 No. J4t
Born March " · 18'1

Ro llie W. Miller......D. G . M.
James T. Fraser........ S. G. W .
Leon 0. WhitselL. ...J. G. W .
Wm. P.uker Filmer..........G . T.
J ohn Wh icher.. ............... G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................G. L.

1936
Rollie W . Miller............ G . M.
SunHI No. 352
l orn Oct. 17 188]
Died Ju ly 1a; 1960

505

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

1941
Fronk M. Smith .............. G . M.
East Gate No. 2'0
Born Aprll I, 18'4
Died Aprll 7, 1'151

Leslie E. Wood ........ 0 . G . M.
Claude H. Morrison. S. G . W.
G . C . DeForest... .....J. G . W.
W m. Pa rker Filmer ......... G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............. G . S.
Chester H. Warlow........ G . L

John R. Moore ... - .....•... G . M.
Morldlon No. '67
lorn Sept. 19')

Chester H . Warlow .. D. ~ . M.
Edward H. Siems ...... S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer......_J, G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson .............. G . S.
Arthur M. W1rren .......... 6. L

1950
Arthur Paulsen ···-··-··G . M.
Trinity No. 27
Sorn May 4, 18'0

Louis C . Drapeau ... _.D. G. M.
Arthur M. Warren....S. G. W.
Frank Harwell, Jr .....J . G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G . S.
Wolter H. E. von Kon1ky G .L.

1951

1948
Edward H. Siems......_ ..G. M.
Plymouth No. 560
l orn Docombor 7, Ital

Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G . M.
Arthur Paulsen .... - .... S. G . W.
Louis C . Drapeau ......J. G . W .
Francis V, Kuslin9 ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson............... G.S.
Arthur M. Warren .......... G. L.

lorn Oct. J, I tol

L. Harold Anderson .. D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ........ S.G.W.
Phil N. Myers...·-····-···J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems............ G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson...--·-····G .S.
Elbert W . Davis............. _ G ,l .

1956
l. Harold Anderson ........ G.M.
Pal o Alto No. 346
Born Marc h 29, 1899

Leo E. Anderson ........ D.G.M.
Phil N. Myers.......... - .. S.G.W.
Joe L. Shell. .................J.G.W.
Edwa rd H. Siems ..........._.G.T.
Ll oyd E. W il1on.............. G. S.
Elbert W . Davls... ...... - .- ·G.L

1957

M. Warren D. G . M
Fra nk Ha rwell, Jr ..... S. G . W
Hen•y C . Clausen ....J. G . W .
Frar.c;i, V. Keesling .... .. G . T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ..............G .S.
W .. lter H. E. von Konsky G . L.

Phil N. Myers............D.G .M.
J oe l. Shell........... - ... 5.G.W .
Alfred F. Breslouer..... J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems... ......... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson......._._.. G. S.
Elbert W. Davis... - .... - ..... G.L.

Born Auq. 30, 1885

Arth ur

1952
Arthur M. Warren .......G . M.
Mt. Oavidson No. 481
Born Cecember 17. 1901
D;o.J M>r 2 1. 19li

H ofly.,.ood No. 355
Born Februory 20, 1902

1951.1
Phil N. Myers. .... . ...... G .M.
McClo ud lodqo No. 430
Sorn, J•nua ry 12, 18'7

Shell..._ ............. O.G.M.
Fra nk Hor.,.,o!I J r .. . D. G . M. Joe L.
A lfred F. Breslauer...... S.G.W.
H e r.;y C. Cl~ u s en S. G . W.
G uy 8. Mixe . ..............J .G.W.
Edga r V. Staw3'1 , Jr. J . G . W .
Edward H. Siems.............. G.T.
F•.lnc. V. '°{ • •·<l:ng .. G. T. Lloyd E. Wilson ............ G.S.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............... G .S. Elbert W. Davis................G.L.
Elbert W. Davis ............G. L.

1953

Edward H. Siems...... D. G . M.
Ellsworth Meyer........ S. G . W .
Arthur Paulsen ........J. G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilaon ........._._G . S.
Arthur M. Warren_ ........G . L

Loyalty No. 52'

Leo E. Anderson ............G .:.4.

Frank Harwall, Jr . ... G. M.

Frosno No. 247
lo•n Juno 30. Utt
Died Dece mber 10, 1963

1955
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr..... G.M.

Louis C. Dra peau .........'2. M.
Pol.. iettia No. Ul

1947

1942
Provident No. 60t
Born Aprll 2, 18'7

Liberal Art• No. 6n
Born Feb. 27. ltoS

A rthur P1 ulsen.......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Dra poau......S. G. W .
Arthur 11.1. Warren ....J. G. W.
Fra ncis V. Keesling ...... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G . S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G . L.

Chester H . Warlow ...... G . M.

Leslie E. Wood ·······-····G. M.

James T. Frasor ........ O. G. M. Claude H. Morrison .D. G . M.
Leon 0. Whitsell ......S. G. W. Gilbert C . DeForest..S. G. W .
William H. Waste....J. G. W. Lawrence C . Kelley ..J. G. W .
Wm, Parker Filmer .. ........ G. T. Wm. Parkor Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher ................. G, S. Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Leslle E. Wood. ......- .... G. L Chaster H . Warlow....... G. L

1949
Ell >worth Meyer ............ G . M.

Be v• rl y Hill s No S28
Bor n Ociober 4, I 898

Henry C . Cl"u"'" 0 . G . M.
Edgar Y. Stew art, Jr...S. G . W .
L. H arold Anderson J . G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ..... .... G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ..... . .. G . S.
Elbert W. Davis............ 6 . L

1959
Joe L. Sh ell .......... .......... G.M.
Sa n Oloqo No. lS
Born Fe b ruory 18, 1892

Alfred F. Bresla uer..... O.G .M.
Guy B. Mixe.... ........... S.G .W.
Ire W. C oburn............J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems. ............G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson................G.S.
Elbert W . Davi1................G .L

195(

1960

Henry C . Cl ausen ... . G .M.

Alfred F. Breslauer ......... G .M.

lnqlHido No. &lO
Born June 30, 1905

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. D.G .M.I
L. Harold Anderson ... S.G .W.
Leo E. Anderson........ J .G .W .
Edward H. Siems......... - ... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........ ....G. S
Elbert W. D1vis ..............G .L.

Sta rr Kin9 No 344
Born Au9ud 26, I 8'18

Guv B. Mi1e ............ _.0 .G .M.
Ira W . Coburn ............ S.G.W.
Elmer W. Hoald ..........J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ............G .T.
Edward H. Siems.............. G.S.
Donald G. C1mpbell ........ G.L

506

PRO CEE DIN GS OP TH

E

GR AN D LOD GE OF CA

1961

Gu i!i·ty~~~ ·u;·-·······-· ··G·

M.

lorn Apr il 2J l fOI

M
Ira W. Cob urn····-····· D. G. w ·
Elmer W. Hea ld...- ... S. G. w·
G.
The od ore Meriam ... .J.
G. T.
Arthur M. Wa rren ....__..
. S·
G
.....
......
s..
Siem
H.
Edw ud
G. L
Donald G. Cam pbe ll......

1962

GM
urn
Ira W. cCob
No. 216 ··-·- ·-··· - • •
Dori

lorn Jan. 26 r~

.M
Elmer W. He~ ld.......... D.G .W.
Theodo re Me riam ...- ... S.G ·
w
Myron E. Smith............J.G .
G.T
Arthur M. Wa rren ............G.S.
Edward H. Siems ..............
G.L:
Donald G. Cam pba ll...- ...

1963
. HNeald............G .M•
ElmEelrCWt
t n ro o. 384
lorn Jan . 7, 1885
.M
Theodore Me riam ...... D.G w ·
Myron E. Smith .......... S.G :w·
Laurance E. Dayton .... J.G
G.T:
Arthur M. Wa rren ..........G S
Edward H. Siems
:L:
Donald G. Campb·~;.,.-::::::G

1964
iam ..........G.M•
reNMer111
The oCdh?ICO
o.
Born Apr il 18, 1910

M
Myron E. Smith . ...... .... D.G
.w:
Lau ren ce E. Oayton .... S.G
~ohf F. Porter............. J .G. W:
G.T
Edu Ad. Pfue ger ..... .... .....G.S
war H. Sie ms..............
G.L
Donald G. Cam pbe ll........

LIF OR NIA

LIST OF IN SP EC TO RS

507

Dis tric t
Date of Com mis sio n
..424
.....
.....
.....
, 1927...............
..........................De cem ber
..........412
.....
.....
.....
.....
ser
.....
Fra
.....
8
L.
192
,
ce
rch
ren
Cla
............... ............... ......... Ma
1932................... - ..... ......346
Wm. S. Th om pso n ..........
..... .............. _............. Jul y, 1934................................418
.....
.....
.....
r
lla
Mi
0.
Nil es
·Sept em ber 15,
ave......·-··········-· ·····.....
5 ............... - ...............416
H erb ert R. Ha rgr
..... ....De cem ber , 193
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
............... ..... .......104
r
lla
Sam uel Do
............Jan uar y l , 19378.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
...........................306
rd
.....
Wa
tob er , 193
Georg e S.
......................... ............Ocber
3 ................................624
194
10,
Gu ido de Gh eta ldi.r.......
vem
No
...
....................
..... ........... 560
Me lvi n R. Be rbo we ............... ..... ....... J anu ary 26, 194 4....................
.......... ............426
.....
5
194
6,
rch
Fre der ic E. Cla rk ..........
Ma
.
......
.........................
.................392
Jam es B. La ws on ..... ..... ···············-..... ... .Ma rch 27, 1945 ...............
··-··
...........................322
·····
.....
5
·-···
...
194
.....
27,
in
lch
ber
Ba
tem
h
Arc
........................ Sep
......................301
Ed wa rd C. Lo hm cye r.....
. Oc tob er 9, 1945..........
........ _..... ..428
.....
...... .................... ......
.....
.....
7
1!'4
7,
ril
Ap
Ale xan der Du nca:n.....
..................................
.................544
.....
.....
.....
8
194
22,
Fre d C. Pri tsc hke .....
ril
..... .......... .................Apber 11, 1948 .......................... ...... 112
.....
.....
.....
.....
le
Kie
T.
y
Ro
..108
sselL. ..... ............Septem
5, 1948................................580
Elm er Gle n Va n Ta.....
................No vem ber31,
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
lds
.....
yno
.....
9
Re
194
ald
y
Re gin
..............................Jan uar
9................................586
Lo uis H. Ma hle r ..........
.......................Ma y 16, 194
.....
......
.
.....
.....
.....
..... ...... ..... ................546
en
9
Ow
19-1
Joh n A.
...................June 28, 1949..... ...........................410
.....
.....
.....
.....
et.
ass
om
Th
1,
Ch as. A.
...... ........................Oc tob er 16, 195 0 ................ .......... ...... 324
Wi lso n Ern est La thr op
.......... ................ J anu ary 14, 1950 ............... ................. 570
.....
.....
.....
..
ell.
Ea rl Caldw
..... .......................... April y 8, 1950 ..... .......... ...... ..... ..... .614
.....
.....
.....
Elv in C. Dr ake
..... ............................. Ma
............524
.....
.....
Ted R. Sie ms.......... ...........................No vem ber 24, 1950....................
................332
.....
Fra nk W. Ra dda tz iero ....................De ccm ber 21, 1950 .......... ..........
.......... .376
Jos eph My ron R ugg ...............................Jan uar y 26, 195 1 ................................520
.....
.....
nd
.....
ma
.....
1
Ar
195
L.
23,
dre
er
An
tob
.......636
..... .................... ....... Ocbru
ary 7, 1952 .........................
Re gin ald Bu nce ..........
.......................Fe
..... .. 500
.....
.....
.....
.....
y
.....
nle
.....
Sta
.....
2
C.
195
th
nne
31,
Ke
.................... .... Ma rch 31 , 1952 ............... .. ............... 502
.....
.....
e
idg
rtr
Pa
W.
d
rch
Wi lfre
................................. MaMa
2..... ...........................208
Ly nn A . Bla ckm un .....
.......... ........... .... y 12, 195
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
y
2..... ........................... 344
rle
Fa
195
rd
Ed wa
..............No vem bcr 10, 1953.......... ......................644
.....
.....
.....
.....
dup
Wi
K.
Ha rry
Ma rch 2.
.......................... ...............
.................... .......330
Ha rry H. Aiznan . ..........
..... ..... Ma rch 26, 19533.....
......
.....
.....
.....
.....
er
...........................217
ckl
.....
ber 5, 195
Pa ul A. Ha
............... .............. Sep tem
............... .................328
3
195
10,
er
Ra y Ea rl Bu rdg ..........
tob
Oc
.....
.......350
.................... .....
y 1, 195 4.........................
J am es E. Fin ley ..........
.................... ............ Jan uar
..... .................622
.....
.....
4
195
1,
y
uar
E. Llo yd Ha nson ..........
Jan
................................... Ma rch 12, 1954.......... ......................402
.Tohn H. Fer gus on..........
.................... .......... ... bcr 15, 195 4................................ 550
Cla ibo rn Sch onh off .....
.......... ...........Decem y 13, 1955................................427
Ra y Sm ith.......... ..........
.......367
...... .......... ..............Jan uar
y 14, 1955.........................
Alv a A. Da nie lls ...............
..... ............... .............Jul
........... 542
.....
.....
......
.....
.....
ll
.....
Wi
5
C.
195
9,
rd
st
wa
gu
Ed
Au
..... .......432
..... ..................... ..... ..........Oc
tob er 3, 195 5 .......... ..........
Fra nk Leroy Su tlif f.....
.........................
............318
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
e
.....
5
or
195
Mo
E.
29,
rl
er
Ca
..... ......................Oc tob y 6, 1956.......... ..... .......... .......431
.....
.....
.....
ds
Hin
M.
lph
Ra
Jan uar
.. 388
uga rt.. .. ...... ...... ...............
24, 1956.......... ........................629
Wi llia m Wa ter s Sh.....
..................... Ap ril 20,
.....
....
.....
......
.....
_
.
n
.....
fto
.....
6
Tra
195
F.
d
ay
Ha rol
.................................... .M
6................................411
A. Bir d Cr oss ...............
................ ..........Jul y 16, 195 6................................ 602
.....
.....
.....
.....
an
im
Kle
l
Da nie
y 16, 195
........_.............................Jul
...................._365
Jos eph L. Ou sle y ..........
.......... Jul y 25, 1956 ..........
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
................... 625
.....
.....
.....
E. Ross Ba ylis
...Jul y 30, 1956..... ...... -.....
..... ........... 607
.......... .........................Au
......
6
195
15,
t
gus
Flo yd 0 . Mason ..........
...
.....
..... ..... .......... .....
.....................- ...605
.....
6
195
20,
t
Re we ll E. Ca rlto n ..........
gus
Au
.....
.........................
195 6... ............- ..............._603
Ke nne th Do we ll ..... .....
.....____ 632
..............._...........Au gus t 23,
Ea rl Mo ore Vigu s .......................................Au gw t 29, 195 6 ............... .....
....... - ...•...206
.....
.....
.....
6
195
11,
Hu ber t J. Ra ym ond
ber
tem
ln.spector$

....................Sep
Wa yne A. Da hli ng ..........

508
lnspectora

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

Date of Co mmunon
• •

v· .

GUel orge T. Rowse._ ...................................January 1 1957
istrict
ysses George ~atropulos.................... January
•
································314
G_eorge W. P erkms .......- .........................Januar 161• 1957································333
1957
S1dn~y A. Web~ter..................................
M/
•
................................548
Le_w1s Hugh Field ................................ ········May 9• 1957···············-···············300
Wmfield Scott McLees
··········M Y 15• 1957 ................................637
Riley L. Blurton............ :::::::::::::~:::::··············M:Y 15• 1957 ................................639
James E. Bacon
··-- ···--·· b Y 24• 1957..................·-··-······ 628
Philip Stembridg·~--H~~-t····················· 0 e~em er 1 ~· ~ 9 57........................... ___:504
Lester Howard CasagrMde:::::::~::~:::::::J~~~ • ~~~---··········· ·········-·······610
Albert A. Bryceson. .....·-······················-···Janu ary 11• 195 ··················· -···········117
Lloyd Ario Countryma n
A
•
···········-············· ugust 13 19588-················· ·····-··-···110
11
Ch. ar 1es H.
F oster......... - ...........................JJ anuar 1' 1959 ................................ 4
L . Rothblum
Carlton
Y '
................................334
Samuel G Clark
···················-··········· anuary l, 1959......·-··············342
·H h ...................
.....................January 1 1959
·······326
Arth ur L · ug es ··················· ················· J anuary 23' 1959································109
e
Johnson
Alfr· d D
........................................February 9 ' 1959 ·······················-········361
. R owlands
.A · '
································
D arue
1
.
dt
·········-···························· J pnl 6' 1959····················
c
m
340
··
Per
W
L
Y
.
R
···················
····························· une
1959································
·-······· 106
Elmer E.. oss .................................................. June 84' 1959
emen.
O t b
'
·······················-···- - 366
Frank
·t h PL"L k
········-······························· c o er 8 1 1959
u~ ins ····················
··················· December 1 1959·····················-·········.2lS
Ar
Claud1s Thomas S_hirley..................... :December
................................ 554
1'• 1959....................
Thurla n Wm He1dner
D
b
............ 596
························D ecemb er 15• 1959······· ·· ······················· 530
1.lli am R ob.us ch
Wo n
aker Jr ································D ecem b er 15' 1959································582
J ahP W . Bp
•. ································· ecem er 15 1959····················
············ 372
R larh P · artndge..............................Decem b er 15 ' 1959
319
es
J
.
Wentz
D
'
Ch
Alfreld A . Penrose···················· ·············· ecember 15 1959 ································ 626
................................. - ...Januar 1' 1960································
Taubner G. Hamma .
J
Y •
···············-···
John D Dearin S
···················· ··········· anuary l , 1960....................············224
............ 227
·
R
g,
r
....................
...............
J
anuary
1
1960
302
amsey
F b
'
····················
··········
C ar
l
R
·
L
G
·······:············
··················F e b ruary 26' 1960.··-···························· ·362
en e
. oodwlTl.
11 B ottorff
W i·rudam
··························· e ruary
' 1960 ································ 564
War a mes a ker·········· ··············· ·················A pn·1 26
A · 22 ' 1960 ······· ··· ······················578
E
l
W
J
I
F re d enc
· k B o l t~ ....................
···················
····················
· pnl 22 1960
....................
........
····················62l
Lee H
. Buchhe1ste
r
A Ma Y 3'' 1960············
....................
............385
Ray H Pa.
···································· ugust 20, 1960.......... ........... .
390
G
·
me_. .................... ...................September
20 1960..
·········508
eorge Dennis Lober ................................ October 4' 1960 ·······························
Romayne Harvey Bant
J
•
606
z ............................ anuary 1 1961 ................................310
arry
.
Easker.......
..................
Jan u
• 1
································
C H. Hobson
L
Herbert
1
··················J
ary • 961... .................... .........356
orenza . Shaw ····································J anuary 1' 1961 ············· ···················348
L urton
H
Meyer
Jr···········-········ ·· ·················J anuary 1• 1961 ................................ 638
B an
• ···················· ···················
1 1961································552
J anuary 10'
Frussek E . Stevens
································ ··.···J anuary 12'
.
Bragg
11961··················· ············· 510
R nold
II G.
F Robertson
······································
Ja nuary
• 961 ································60 1
Ar1- iam
18 1961 ······· ························· 540
E. Marshall. ······························J anuary 27'
W 11
anuary
1961································212
. L aFortune·······························
F
b
15'
H .orace
R
.
····························F e b ruary I ' 196 1····················
············216
A ayne
B oyd Coilier
. . ·····:··············
e Mruarh 5' 1961·········· ······················219
W war E. P h1lipp1 ···· ·····························
·······......... .. ····· l\"
arc 29
. S pellmeyer
15' 1961································120
Ed n de Ler
·································· J.ay ' 1961 ····················
r
············118
J oen
h ell
K 11Howard
J
• ····················
················s·······t······ bu ne 1• 1961................................
Nicol
308
Wo d
···················· ·· S ep t emb er 22 ' 1961 ····················
············226
J h n Clifton Carpenter
.
······················ epJ em er 28 • 1961 ····················
er
.
Th1rkill
430
············
Alb
ern-t E Coy ···················· ··············· ·J a nuary 1• 1962································304
Ma p 11 D.
········································ ··J anuary 1' 1962......
. Webb
···················· ······352
R 1 h M
···················
. Jones.........
......... ·····················J anuary 1' 1962································3"'8
R on
"
······················J anuary 1' 1962································512
arald .E c rock
M k E S h
··················· ·· ················· anuary I, 1962................................ 538

1

Jn5pectors

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

509

Daee of Commi55ion

District

Alfred J. N avin. ..................................... .J anuary 1, 1962................................
Lloyd V. Smith .................... ................... J a nuary 1, 1962 ... .............. ......... ......556
558
Erwin H. Gebhardt.. . ................. ..............January 1, 1962 ............... ............ .....566
Irvin Shulkin ..........................................J anuar y 1, 1962................................568
Thomas J. McKimson ............................January 1, 1962 ................................572
Robert E. Crist.......... .................... ........... J anuary 1, 1962........... ...................
James D. Kelso ........................... ...........January 1, 1962......... .. ....................588
592
Wayne C. Bates ................. .................. .Ja nuary l , 1962................................618
J ohn Lacy Taylor ................... .................J anuary 1, 1962.................... ............630
Herman W. Toedter ...................... ...... ...J a nuary 1, 1962 .................. ... ......... ..635
Sam I. Bonn...................................... ..... ...January 13, 1962 .......................... ......215
William L owell Hurd ................................March 14, 1962................................406
William E. Foster..... .......................... .. . . March 15, 1962 .................... ............382
Chad Horton ................ ............... .......... .. ..... April 5, 1962.......... ....... ............ .420
Paul Landis Turner ...... .................... ............ April 5, 1962 ......... ............. ....... .421
William H enry Price ......... .............................June 1, 1962 ................................616
L awrence C. L amb ...... ........... ... ........December 18, 1962 ................................532
Clyde E. Sinclair ....... .......................... ..... J anuary 1, 1963 .......................... ......211
Joseph W. Wright... ................... ................ J anuary 1, 1963 .......... .................... ..307
Bertram C. von K onsky ..... ............... ..January 1, 1963 ................................330
Haze lton F rench ............. ....... ......... ......... January 1, 1963................................337
Robert M. Montgome ry ..................... ...... J anuary 1, 1963................................338
J ohn Joshua Williams ........ .....................J a nuary 1, 1963............................. .. 368
L eRoy W. Schlaegel... ..... .................... ......J anuary l , 1963...............................518
Ra y L . Peterson............. ...... .....................J a nuary 1, 1963 ....... .................... ..... 522
Hiram Odell Gordon ............... ........ ......January 1, 1963 ... .... ....... .................609
William F. Poynter ... ... ... ............. .February 5, 1963................................336
Denzil D. Kitchens ............... ... ... ..........February 26, 1963 .................... ............228
Charles H . McAllister .................. .. .......March 29, 1963 .................... ............ 384
Wilton J . S mith, Jr.... .....................................June 4., 1963 ... ........ ............... ...... 394
Leonard D. Babcock. ............. ........ September 1, 1963................................ 620
Simon F. Bolger .......... ...... ..................September 18, 1963 .............. ............ ......640
Fran k L . Richards ... ............ . ..... Sept ember 18, 1963 ........................... ....590
Lloyd D. Hanselman .... .................. ... September 26, 1963....... ......................... 528
George F. H anison .................. ........... .October 18, 1963.......... ....................526
Donald J . Shoemake r ............. ................ October 18, 1963 ................................ 584
R aymond C. R eeder.. .. ..... .. ..... .. .............October 18, 1963 .................. ..............fi46
William D. Padgette .................... ........December 27, 1963 ......... ......... ..............608
William Whitfield Eilers... . ............ ... J a nuary 1, 1964................................374
Stephen J . Collins ..................... ............. J anuaTY 13, 1964........ .................... .... 536
Robert A. Simon.............. ................... .... January 13, 1964... .................... .........562
Theodore A. Daley.................... ..........February 16, 1964................................222
Ernest M. Newton ..................................February 17, 1964.............. ................ 642
James J . Hartley ......... ......... .................. Februar y 26, 1964.............................. .220
J acob Andrew Feth ....... ................... ...........March 4, 1964.................... ............. 214
Donald E. Thomas ........................... ..........March 25, 1964................................506
Sheldon E. Morris........... ................. ... .......March 26, 1964 .............................. ..204
AlfTed LeRoy Hayes .................... .... ......... March 26, 1964...... .......................... 210
Robert H. Burrows ................. ....................March 26, 1964................................354
C. Earl Gwin...................................... ................May 2, 1964 ................................432
Frank W. Park er...... ........ . . .. .............. .. ......May 2, 1964................. ..............404
Shelby F . Passley........................... .. ......... ........ May 2, 1964............... .................422
H arry L. Muller...............................................May 2, 1964................................ 320
J ames Harvey Weller.................. ................. May 15, 1964................................612
Orval F . Carpenter ............... .................... .....J une 17, 1964 ................................316
K e nneth B. Conklin.. .. .................... ...............J uly 28, 1964................................634
Lawrence E. Crow................... ...................October 8, 1964................................370
James E. Wellet... .. .. ...... .................. . ... November 1, 1964................................ 534
Fred F. E lliott ............... ........ .................November 1, 1964.............. ............ ...... 594
Robert W. Doan..................................... .November 5, 1964................................574
William A. Fishback................... ...........November 5, 1964................................576

510

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

FORE IGN GRAN D LODG ES
R#COfMHtl 11ntl in Fr4/t1rn11l Re'41io n1 u'lth th•
GwuJ Lodi• of CJifor,, ia

Argent ina:
Carlos Wilson, Grand Secty.,
Cangal lo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argent ina
Austria :
Dr. J oseph Strelka, Grand Secty.,
Doroth eergass e -12, Vienna 1, Austria
Belgium :
Andre Saccasy n, Grand, Secty.,
5, Rue Du Chene, Brussel s 1, Belgium
BoUYia:
Humbe i:to Frias Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 554, La Paz, Bolivia , S.A.
Brull:

The Grand Lodge of Amazo n and Acre
Joaqulr n Gomes Loureir o, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manau s, Amazon as, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Se:r:gio Alexan dre Ivanen ko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relatio n.,
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizon te, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
A. Napole ao Figueir edo, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relatio ns
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
Grand Lodge of Parana
Grand Secreta ry
Caixa Postal 1363, Curitib a, Parana, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Grand Secreta ry
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresin a, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarin a
Br~siliano deSouz a, Grand Secty. of Foreign
Relatio ns
Caixa Postal 247, Florian opolis, Santa Catarin a, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wll_son Achille s da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Cal.Xa Postal 76, Fortale za, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Guanab ara
Grand Secreta ry
Rua Mariz e Barros 945, Rio de J aneiro 8, Guanab ara, Brazil, S .
A
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Arr Silva Antu nes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahy ba, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignem artin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relatio ns
Av Brigade iro Luis Antoni o 1195, Apt. 72, Sao Paulo,
Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Wa.lter Oliveir a Costa, Grand Secty., Rel. Exl
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil.
The Grand Symbol ic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Os:""aldo Baucke , Grand Secty. of Fore ign Relatio ns
Cal.Xa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

The Grand Symbol ic Lod ge of the State of Mato Grosso
Grand Secreta ry
.
Caixa Postal 254, Campo Grande , Mato Grosso, Brazil.
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
.
.
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvado r, Bahia,
Brazil
Canada :
Albert aEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 -12th Ave., S.W., Calgary .
British Colum biaJ. H. N. Morgan , Grand Secty.,
692 Seymo ur St., Vancou ver 2, B. C.
Canad a-(Prov ince of Ontario )
Ewart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
.
P. O. Drawe r 217, Hamilton 2, Ontario .
Manito baThoma s C. Jackson , Grand Secty.,
Masoni c Temple , Winnipeg 2, Manito ba.
New Brunsw ickA. C. Lemmo n, Grand Secty.,
.
P.O. Box 430, Saint John, New Brunsw1ck.
Nov a Scotia Harold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.
P.O. Box 522, Halifax , Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward Island Floyd Drake , Grand Secty .,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlot tetown, P. E. I.
Quebe cJ. Mel. Marsha ll, Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montre al 25, Quebec .
Saskat chewa nT. M. Spence r, Grand Secty.,
P. O. Box 246, Regina , Saskatc hewan.
Cblle1
Oscar Pereira H., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiag o, Chile, S. A.
China:
Grand Secty., Loh H. T. Wei
P.O. Box 758, Taipei, T aiwan, China
Colomb ia:
Gran Logia de Colomb ia,
Ignacio Ramire z Sanche z, Grand Secty.,
Aparta do 2519, Bogota , Colomb ia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occiden tal de Colomb ia
.
.
Carlos Rincon C., Grand Chancellor-For~ign
Relat10ns,
Apartad o Aereo No. 19-75, Cali, Colomb ia, S.A.
Na tional Grand Lodge of Colomb ia
Ricardo Steffe ns. Grand Secty.,
Calle 66 No. 62-45, Barran quilla, Colomb ia, S.A.
Orienta l Grand Lodge "Franci sco de P aula Santan der"
Nation al Serene Grand Lod ge of Colomb ia at Cartage na
Jose Valverd e P ., Grand Secty.,
.
Aparta do Nal. No. 16, Cartage na, Colomb1a,
S.A.

511

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
"Cuba:
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeAUred Nyvang. Grand Secty.,
l::Hegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen. Denmark.

Dominican Republic:
AUredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 865, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Ecuador:
Bruno Sadun Mamo, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
""Egypt:
The National Grand Lodge of Egypl
El Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
2a Calle Oriente No. 43, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England:

James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.

Freem asons Hall, London, England

Finland:
Martti V. Mustakallio, Grand Secty.,
P. Esplanaadikalu 35E, Helsinki, Finland.
France:
French Nationa l Grand Lodge,
S. J. L. Humbert, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, Franct;.
Germany:
United Grand Lodges
P. 0. Box 16367, 6000 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Greece:
N. E conomopoulos, Grand Secty.,
21 Xenias St., Athens, Greece.

Guatemala:
L auro A. Rivera, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 34, Guatemala City, C. A.
Honduras:
Ramon Herna ndez Rivas, Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 336, Tegucigalpa, D. C., Honduras. C. A.
Iceland:
Olafur Gislason, Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) Reykjavik, Iceland.
India:
P. N. Sundaram, Grand Secty.,
P. 0 . Box 681. New Delhi 1, India.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ireland:

J. 0 . Harte, Grand Secty.,

Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Shlomo Zarankin, Grand Secty.,
P . O. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Umberto Genova, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 5, Rome.
Japan
Carl T. Nakamura, Grand Secty.,
No. 13-1, Shiba, Sakae-Cho, Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan.
Luxembourg:
Leon Hamus, Grand Secty.,
Case Pos tale No. 260, Luxembourg-ville, Luxembourg.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
C. Robert Quick, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico 1, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Adalberto J. Abasolo T., Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 134, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Jose A . Espejo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171 , Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Sergio Mena Trevino, Grand Secty.,
.
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mex1 ro
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Inocencio Higuera Verdugo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 26, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Homero Ramos Pecina, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Marcial Fernandez Vazquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Ve racruz, Ver., Mex.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Fernando Arias Rendon, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico 1, D. F.
Netherlandai
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. P. J. vanLoo, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluwelen Burgwal, The Hague.
New South Wales:
Unitt>d Grand Lod~e of New South Wales,
R. H. Burley, Grand Secty.,
279 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zealand:
F . G. Northern. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 6439, Wellington C. 2, New Zealand.
Nicaragua:
Carlos H. Muniz, Grand Secty .,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.

513

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

514

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Norway :
Odd Lie-Dav idsen, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Voldgat e 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama :
Juan E. Urriola, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 84, Panama , Republi c of Panama .
Peru:
Jorge A. Butler, Grand Secty.,
Apartad o 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippi nes:
Esteban Munarri z, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelin o, Manila, P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Juan L. Matos-C intron, Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 8385, Santurc e, Puerto Rico.
Queensl and:
V. I. Carter, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane , Australi a.
Scotland :
Alexand er F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinbur gh, 2, Scotland .
Souther n Africa:
Grand Secret ary,
P. 0. Box 3431, Cape Town, So. Africa.
South Australi a:
F . J. Ellen. Grand Secty.,
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide , So. Australi a.

Sweden :
Sven S_vedin, Grand Secty.,
Frunura reorden , Blasieho lmsgata n 6, Stockho lm, Sweden
Switzer land:
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Humber~ Vettova glia, Grand Secty.,
11 Ch emm Champ- Rond, Lausann e, Switzerl and.
Tasman ia:
H. A. Wilkinso n! Grand Secty.,
119 Maquan e St., Hobart, Tasman ia.
Venezue la:
(Rep. of Venezue la)
Miguel E. Tejeda R., Grand Secty.,
Apartad o de Correos 927, Caracas , Ve nezuela.
Vic.toria :
United Grand Lod~e.
C. W. J:?avis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbour ne, Australi a.
Western Australi a:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Western Australi a.

Castro re gime.
*:Recogn~z~d by Gr~nd Lodge of Californ ia prior to t he
years.
Recogm hon not withdra wn but no contact for some

515

ALPH ABET ICAL UST OF LODGES
A
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalane s (723), Lafayet te.
Acom (494), Oakland .
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Alamed a (167), Fremon t.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexand er Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexand er Hamilto n (535),
Los Angeles .
Alexand ria (531), San Francisco.
Alhamb ra (322), Alhamb ra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasant on.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmon d.
Alta (333), Bridgep ort.
Altaden a (678), Altaden a.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), Daly City.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson .
America (475), Los Angeles.
America n River (795), Folsom

Amity-Se al Rock (370),
San Francisc o.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compto n.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angele1.
Antioch (175), Antioch .
Apollo (396), Ala meda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles .
Arbuckl e (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia .
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonau t (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arlingto n (414), Los Angeles.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Garde na.
Ashland (798), San Lorenzo .
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascad ero (493), Atascad ero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles .
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerto n.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfi eld (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisc o.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow .
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland .
Bear Mounta in (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellfl.ower (523), Bellflow er .
Belmon t Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belve dere (539), Monter ey Park.
Benevol ence (631), Los Angeles .
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills.
Cahueng a (513), Hollywood.
Calaver as (78), San Andreas.
Caledon ia ( 486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico .
Californ ia (1), San Francisco.
Calistog a (233), Calistog a.
Callayo mi (282), Middlet own.
Camelli a (805), Temple City.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake .
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacrame nto.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmeli ta (599), Pasaden a.
Carpint eria (444), Carpinte ria.
Carquin ez (337), Crocket t.

Berkele y (363). Berkele y.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big B ear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long B each.
Blackm er (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley .
Brentwo od (345), Brentwood.
Brookly n (225), Oakland .
Buckeye (195). Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank .
Burling ame (400), Burling am e.

c

Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centenn ial (729), Compto n.
Center (465), Fresno.
Central Californ ia Researc h Lodge,
Fresno
Channe l (757), Stockton .
Charity (362), Campbe ll.
Charter Rock (410) Berkele y
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland .
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427). Chino.
Chowch illa (485), Chowch illa.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro! (656), Brea.

516

517

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGE S-Contin ued

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGE S-Contin ued

Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Confidence (203), Castroville .
Clai remont Mesa (799), San Diego.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Claremont (436), Claremont .
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Clarence F. Smith (482). Los Angeles. Corinth ian (9). Marysville .
Claude H. Morrison (747),
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Chula Vista.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covelo (231), Covclo.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Covenant (527), L os Angeles.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
C oalin~a (387), Coalinga.
Cres centa Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Coastside (762), Pacifica.
Crocker (454), Daly City,
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Com posite (639), Los Angeles.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Concord (117), Sacrament o.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks. Curtis (140), Cloverdale .
Damascus (648), San Bernardino .
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

D
Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174). Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), B erkeley,

E

Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Rancho (759). Rico Rivera
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), E l Segundo.
Eas t Belt (391), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Els inore.
East San Diego (561) , East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Ange les.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eel R iver (147), Fortuna.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
El Cajon Vall ey (576). El Cajon.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. E ucli d (519), L os Angeles.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16). Auburn.
E l Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), P lacerville.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Fairfax (556), L arkspur.
F airmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angelcs.
Fall brook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
F ellowship (480), Oa kland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Points (779) , Long Beach.
Florence (649), Walnut Park.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forhestow n, (50), Forbestow n.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden G rove (586). Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492). Los Angeles.
Gen eral Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
Georgetow n (25). George town.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washingto n (525),
San Francisco.
Glasscll Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), G lendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Gold en Bowl (755). South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

H

Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
H amilton (75 1), Novato.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley:
Harnrnon to;; (433 ), Sutte r.
Hillsborou gh (737). Burlmgam e.
Hanford (219), J:fanford.
Hills F erry (236), Newman.
H ar bor (502), Richmon d .
H'
(43) El Dorado.
Harding (584), Lo~ An gg~s.
H~~:nbeck (319) Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra I y.
Holiywood (355),'Holl ywood.
Hartley (199), Lakeporr H
..
Holtville (425) H oltv ille.
Hawaiian (21), Honolu u. awan.
H
(721) No Hollywood .
Ha wthorne (647) , Haw thorne.
H~~~lulu (409),'Hono lulu, Hawaii.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
C
k
Hope (234) Beckwourt h.
Henry Clay (95). Sutter ree .
.
(• ) H
·t
Knox (662) Los Angeles.
Horn1tos 98 . orm os.
~~~!j Morse Stephens (541) , Be{keley.U~~t:'o1d~1~·g;,'~~:eka.
HHet1!)'t S. 0( ~~)e ~4;r~k ~~~h~-~~~J_s.
Hunter s Poi~t Naval (706),
en age
•
.
San Francisco.
~~~~~~; (~~;~\~i~h~~f;~~~~-ch.
Huntin~ton Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), ~anta Mana.
Huntmgto n Beach.
Highland (748), Highland.

7

I

· ·
.
If
Inglewood (421), Inglewood .
Illmoistow n (51), Co .ax ·
Inyo (221) Independe nce.
Imperial (390), Impena1.
·
·
Rock (638) Berkeley
Ione (80 ), 1on e.
i~~~~~ Wells Vall~y (691), _Ridgecrest . Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
J

F
Forest Hill (534), San F rancisco.
F ort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Berkeley.
Fra ncis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck {571), Berkeley.
Frank S. Land (U.D.), Los Angeles
Fra nklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358). L os Angeles . .
Golden Valley (796), San Bern~rdmo
Golden West {455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), LiJ!coln.
.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790}, San Fern~do.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonvi lle.
Great Lights (818), Sunnyvale .
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe {237), Guadalupe .
Guardian (596). South Gate.

J ames A. Foshay (641),
Playa del R ey.
J ames A · Ga rfield (566) • Los Angeles.
d
James HM. Kd~w < 7(~~1'/~~:~~~g~les.
Jam es . o 1son
• .
Janesville (232), Janes"'.ille.
Jewel (374), San F ranc isco.
.
J ohn D. Spreckels (657), San Die go.
Kauai (589), L ihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Kevstone '161). Milton.
Kilauea (330). Hilo, H awaii.

J ohn Marshall (636). Beverly Hills.
J ohn P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
J oppa (508 ) . s an J oaqpuin ·k
J d
(654) Walnut ar .
J~~i:hW. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Justice (549) San Francisco.
•

KKing David's (209), San L uis
. Ob"tspo.
King S olomon's Seaport (260),
San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734). Sacramen~?·
Koolau (801), Kailua, Hawau.

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued
L

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued
N

Lemon Grove (736), Lemon Grove.
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
La Canada (739), La Crescenta.
Honolulu, Hawaii.
La Curnbre (6•2), Santa Barbara.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
La Fayette (126). Sebastopol
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach . Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Habra (659). La Habra.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
L:i Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewood (728) , Long Beach.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627). Pasadena.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Los Alamitos (809), Seal Beach
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La P arfaite Union (17). San Francisco. Los Altos (712), Palo Alto.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
La Puente (446), La Puente.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

M

Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mad era (280), Madera.
Mission Day (771), San Diego.
Madison (23). Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675). Modesto.
Magnolia Park (715), Burbank.
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Manhattan (817), Manhattan Beach.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa .
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monte Vista (655). Long Beach.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Moreno Valley (804) , Sunnymead
Mar Vista (U.D.), Newport Beach.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maui (472), Maui. Kahului, Hawaii.
Morningside Park (742), Inglewood.
Maxwe ll (288), Maxwell.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
Maya (793), Los Angeles
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McCioud (430), McCloud.
Mother Colony (750), Anaheim.
McKinJey (347). Richmond.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Melrose (602), Hollywood.
Mountain View (194),
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mountain View.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mount Baldy (815), Ontario.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Merced (749), Merced.
Mount Diablo (448). Concord.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Jac~son (295), Guerneville.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount MC?riah (44), San Francisco.
Meudell (695), Bakersfield.
Mount Ohve (506), Los Angeles.
Midway (426). Taft.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
.
s · (5 0) S F
MTt
~ t ary ervtce . 7 , an ranc1sco. Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mount Vernon (517) San Francisco
Millbrae (792), Millbrae.
·
Mt. Wilson (794) Altadena
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
'
Mineral King (720), Visalia.

519

Northern California Research
Lodge, San. Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occidental (22) , San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Ocean Park.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfie ld.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Old West (813), Newhall.
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598),
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Peninsula (745) , San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corn ing.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144). San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plaza de Los Angeles (814) ,
Los Angeles.
Plumas (60). Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689) , Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San P edro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), S acramento
Pomona (246) , Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San F rancisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300). Redlands.
R. E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
R edwood Empire (683), Garberville.

Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), R ialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rim of the World (711), Twin Peaks.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459) , Riverbank .
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.

Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), R.oseville .
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), SaCTamento.
Selma (277), Selma.
Saint Elmo (697), Oakland.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Sierra (788), Mariposa .
San Antonio (694). Bell.
Sierra Madre (408) Sierra Madre.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
Sierra Valley (184)'. Sierraville.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura
Siiverado (782), Napa.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana .
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Silver Gate (296) , San Diego.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood.
San Dieguito (775), Cardiff-by-theSea. Silveyville (201), Dixon.
San Dimas (428) , San Dimas.
Simi Valley (806), Simi.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Sincerity (132), Greenville .
San Francisco-Victory (360),
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
San Francisco.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
Sojourner (607), Duarte.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
S·oquel (746), Soquel.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Southern California (278)
San Juan (732). Fair Oaks.
Los Angeles.
'
San Lea.ndro (744), San Leandro.
Southern California Research
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
Lodge, Hollywood.
Boulder Creek.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
San Ma rino (685), San Marino.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
South Pasadena (367),
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
South Pasadena.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
South San Frmcisco (212)
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Francisco.
'
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
South West (283), National City.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Speranza Italiana (219)
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Francisco.
'
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara. Standard (440), Oakland.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Stanislaus (206), Modes to.
Santa Lucia, (302), King City.
Starr King (344), San Francisco
Santa Maria (580) , Ramona.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
·
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Sunnyside (577) , Los Angeles.
Scepter (808), West Sacramento.
Sunnyvale (5 11), Sunnyvale.
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawa ii.
Sunrise (522), Monterey P ark.
Seafaring (708), Newport Beach.
Sunset (352) , Los Angeles.
Sear7hlight (567), Long Beach.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
Seas1qe (504). Long Beach.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.
Security (581), Bakersfield.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

521

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Tatft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
T emblor (477), Fellows.
T emescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
T emple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gabilan (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Torrance.
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), VaHejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Veritas-J onathan (545),
San Francisco.
Waikiki (774), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Warren G . Harding (579),
Sacramento
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore .
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westchester (703), Playa del Rey.
Wes t Covina (758), Baldwin Park.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Wes t Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
L os Angeles.
Westminster (787), Westminster.
Westwood (501), Westwood.
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), Waln ut Park
Zenith (768), Van Nuya.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triad (812), Montebello.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Tur lock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (73 1), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vermont Square (515), Inglewood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victoria Palms (810), Riverside.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
White Pine (555) , Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
William B. Ogden (8 16), Hollywood.
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes H ervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San J ose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodland Hills (811), Canoga Park.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z

522

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

523

INDE X FOR 1964
A

392
e
Additions and Replacements Reserv
......................... 478
Audit .............................................................................. .............
···········
Affiliation Fees Tabulated......... . ·· ·· · ······· .......................... .................. ··
34
Alaska Earthq uake

515
Alph~h~~~alftt~~r;f i~d.1~;~~-s::::::: :: :::::::::::::: ::::::::::::: ::·----·--··:::::::::::::: :::::::::::::: :: 106
s
By-Law
to
ments
Amend
~~~~~~:db6yGc~r;;;~i~~!~~~~::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::: :::::::::::.: ::::::::::::::::.: 183

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Procee dings of other Grand
Lodges have appea red quarte rly in the "Calif or11
nia Freemason, copies of which have been sent
to each Grand Lodge . This progra m will be continued .
The "California Freem ason" is issued quarte rly
and each copy carries additional reviews. Hence ,
they do not appea r in these Proceedings.

93
Amendment Section 174 C.M.C.
325
Emerge nt Resolut ion Presen ted .. ..................... ............. ............. .. .............. .....
54
................:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 337
~egisla~ion ....................................................
.........................
Anmve rsanes of Lodges........................................
.
...........
.............
...........................
Annual Election .......................... .............
363
Annual Return s

~~~h~i-~0~~i~;i~i::: : : : : : : : : :: : .:: : : : : : :: : : : : ::: : : : ::: : : :: : : : : : : : : : : :: .: tig

~~i

:·::::::::::::··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
.............
.............
eC:::r al ...............
AppG
..... ..:::::::::::::
.... .............
... .............
...........................
Special
249
e
Application - Adoption of Sur11:am ces .......... ............ ... ................ ...... .............. .
Report of Commi ttee on Grievan
249

e·Ci:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 478
Appt~!tf~~tiF~es..ifabitlai'
s
Application for Degree
Felony Conviction

. .

44

r!;~1a~~t~~:-~--~~~~-~~.:.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::43:: 290
45

. .
Juvenile Offense
............. ..... ' 290
Grand Master' s DecJ.S1ons....................... ...........................
Legisla tion ........................... ................................... · ................... ··········. 46
Applica tion Form - Prif1:ti_ng

r!:~1al!~t~~:.~--~~:'..~'..~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::. 290
App~~:y~~~s 1964-65 ............ .......................... ....................................................... 33 ~
;i~~--::::::;:::::::: :::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!
~~~;J!f~~~;:
Plan, C~mm1 ttee on.................................................... ..................

Retirement
338
......... .. ..............................:·:··:::::::::::: 338
Trustees for Masom~ Homes .......... ... .....
424
...............·····.... ··..... ········· · ·
·
··
···
···
....
'.fe~ple
Trustees for Memorial
.
..........
...
Committees and Consb tut10nal Boards .......... ............ ...... .. ..........
4
Approp riations, Supple mental
9

: : : : : : : : :: : : : : ::: : :.: : : : : : : ::: : : : : : : :): : : : : : :::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~i
~~.
~~~[~~
Attendance

432

Listed (Regist ration and Mileag e Payme nts ............. ................................. 5
Report ed .................................................... ....................................... ................... 2 2
363
Audits

~~~t~~j~;,··· · =··=·=• ·• •· =·· · · ·• · •=··= · ··=·••··m

tteE'. to
Authorize Grand Master to Appoin t Special Comm1
Agams t
Study Section 408 C.M.C. ~nd ~e~ommends
Ratification _of Grand Master s Dec1s10n No. 7

~~~1a~io1:i ~~-~-~-~~~.:::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::308; 3lo

3

524

PROCEEDINGS OP TRS

Authorize Grand Master to Appoint Special Committee to
Study Section 408 C.M.C. and Recommends Against
R a tification of Grand Master's Decision No. 7 and Rescind All Laws, Rules, Edicts, Regulations and Decisions on the Subject Having the Force of Law
Resolution Presented................................................................................ 75
Legislation ....................................................................................... .....310, 311

B
Bay Claire Vista Lodge No. 799, F. & A. M., Changing Name
Resolution Presented........................................................................................ 89
L egislation. ...................... ....... .................... ................ ..... ........ ............... ............. 323
Biography, Elmer W. Heald.................................................................................... 1
Blood Banks ....................... ....... .... .. .. ....... ... .. ........ ..... ........ ... ... . ....... .. ............ ... 179
Board of Control
Report of ........................... .........
.. ............ .. ..... ..... ....... ..... .... ....... ... 177
Members Listed .......................................................... ...................................... 430
Boards of Relief................... ............................... . ....... ........ .....................
178
Bond, The Very Reverend Lester E.
Devotional Service ........................ .. ...... .... ................... ........ ... ..................... 10
Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit....................................................................... ... 374
Budget
Appropriations, 1964-65 ...................................................................................... 330
By-Laws
Amendments Submitted ....... .. ......................................................................... 106
Report of Committee............. ......... . ......... ............. ........ ...... ... . ...... .... .......... .. 183

c

California Freemason
Auditor's Report .................. ............ ..................... .....................................355, 362
Grand Master's Recommendatio n ......... ......................... .... ........ ...... .....31, 32
Reports of Committees.................................... ........ ..... . ... 221, 295, 327, 335
Resume of Costs- Five Years ........................... ................. .. ......................... 224
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Audit ...................................................................
... ........... .................. 401
Honor Districts .............................................................. .................................... 165
Merit Roll .......................................................... .... ............................ ................ 165
Officers and Trustees .......................................................... ................. . ... 166, 431
Remaining Debt ........................ .............. .................................................. .164, 402
Report of Building Manager..... .................... . ... ......... .. . ......... ...... .
167
Trust ees Appointed .......................................................................................... 338
Trustees Terms .................................................................................................. 164
Trustees Report .................................................................................................. 164
Calling Up Procedures.............................................. ...... .......... .. .. ....... ....
336
Candidate Education, Grand Lecturer's Report... .. ....
.. .. . . .............. ....... 123
Cemeteries (Masonic), Report of Committee........ ...................................
209
Centennial ...............................•.................................................................................. 55
Certification ................................................................
..... .............
3
Chain Letters, Grand Master's Edict.................... .......
61
Changes of Meeting Place
Report by Grand Secretary........... .............. .... ... .............. .
98, 107
Report of Committee on By-Laws............. ....... . ........ .... .
185
Report of Committee on Charters.......................... .. ... . ....................... 214
Changing Name of Bay Claire Vista Lodge No. 799, F. & A. M.
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 89
Legislation ....................................................................................... ................... 323
Charters
Report of Committee........................................................................................ 213
Granted ................................................................................................................ 214
Christmas and Entertainment Reserve
Audit ....................................................... ........... ... ........ ...... .. .. ....... .......... ......... ... 396
Contributions ...................................................................................................... 419

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

525

Clarify Trial Proc~d~e :w11en Foreign

Gral:~~r!:~~~~~~-~-~~~~;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::a~~: 3~~

Clubhouses, Reports on
Berkeley ......... ············ ·· ··········· ···· ·················· ···················· ........................... 254
257

g~~~f;~~!~i~~~::~~f~~::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::: :.: :::: :· :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::: ~ii

Commercialism , Report of Committee on.......................................................... ..
Committee Appointments
24

31

~~~ ?~:~~~~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::·:::::::: :::::::::::··::· ::::::::::::::::::::::::: 42~

Committee Reports (See R~ports of ('.ommittees)
Committee Structure, Special Committee .on
Grand Master's Comments and Appomtments. ........... .. ············ ············· 31
c
"tt
. ... ..239, 295
Com~i~f::s t~fIn~~ti;at~~aso~i~ . C'~~te·~·· at ..P-~oi)o~·e'd'·· · ·· ..........
California World's Fair 1967-68- Long Beach
84
Resolution Presented···································-··········································· 293
Legislation ·················· ······:·····:··············· ··················
·························
Concurrent Jurisdiction and Publlcahon
79
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 316
Legislation .......................... ............ .. ·································
··················· ······
Consolidations of Lodges
98
Report of Grand Secretary ................. ········· ....................... ·············· ·····--····· 214
Report of Commi_ttee on Charters................. .·...... ·· ·· ······ ········· ····················
Constituent L~dges Listed
............................ 515

con~{~r£~~/Z:~~:~::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::·::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::: : 4~~
Constitution Observance
... ................ 28
Grand Master's Commen~··· · · ······· ··········· ···
····· ············ ···
60
Grand Master's Proclamation ......... .......... ... · ···· ··· ··· ···· · · ·· ··· · ... · --··29· 292
Grand Master's i:tecommendatio n...........
·· ··········· · ···· ··········· · · · .'.
206
R~port of Comm1ttee .... ..................... ..........................:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::: .. 429
Constitutional Boards ......................................................... ·
Contributions
.
Christmas and Entertainment
Reserve................................ ................... 4i5" 419
151

cop:£i~if'1:~~r~F.~~-~:::::::::::::::::: : :::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : ::::::::::::::~::::: 41;
Correspondence Committee
.
"}
31
Grand Master's Comments ("Califorrua
Freemason ......... ·······
Report of ............................. ............................. ................... ···················· ···-······· 221
522
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges ...........·· ·········· ·········· ···· · ·
Covina
Hortmef
. ten.dent·····························
Repo
o S upenn
·································.................. 135
415
Resi~ents Listed -·······:································································::::::::::::::::::::::: 393
Covma Reserve Audi~·······:· ············· · ······································· ·
Special Reserve Contribul;ions
.............................. ............................. ............. 417
252
Credentials, Report of Comnuttee........... .......................................................... ...

D
Decisions of Grand Master
35
Reported by Grand Master..
··········· ···· · · ··················· ........ ............... ...... 290
Report of Committees........... .
. ................ ... . ............................. .......... .
Decato Home (Union City)
132
R eport of Superintendent... ·········· · ·
···· ·· ··· ····
·· · ·· ··· ······ · ··· 406
Residents Listed ······:···· ······ ·· ·
··· ········ ·····
· ···· ··· ········· ······· ·· ·
4
Decoto Reserve Audit............ ········ ·· ········ ········ ······ ··· ······· ······· ... ··········· ····· ······ ~~8
Special Reserve Contributions ........ ............................. ........... ....................... .

526

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEEDI NGS OP THE

Dedica tion Cerem ony- Altar
Grand Master's Decision... ...... .. .

............. ...... . .......... .. .... ........ .

35
290

10
:::::::::::::::::::::: 478
: Tab~"i~t~cC:::: ::::::::.:.:::::::.:::·:·:: :::::::::::: :::::::::: : .. :·::::::::::
g~~~
Deg;:e
Land
Degree Teams to Employ Dress a nd Music of Their Native

~~

~~~~~~~~°n ~~~~·e·~~~

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::·:::::: ::::::···::: ::: ···:::·::::::::::::::::::
Degree s Conferred
............. . .................... ............ ... . 478
Tabula ted by Lodges... . .
Repor ted ........................ .................................................. ·.....-.--- .·-----···· 100
Totals
DeMol ay

lii~i~t:~i~~~~~~·~

>·

>ff

.. ........ __ ... 231
..... ...... .... .... ......
Repor t of Special Comm ittee......
............... ..... 10
....
............
....
............
............
............
............
............
e
Servic
Devoti onal
Direct ional Sign - "Maso nic Templ e"
44
290
... ..
Direct ors of Mason ic Clubho uses
431
Na mes of ..... ................................. .
254
Repor t of Berkel ey.............. .
257
R eport of Los Angele s ...... .
Dispen sations

t":~tafilo~st~~ ~ ~-~~~~~.~~:::::::::::::··::::·: :·::::::::::::::·:::::··::::::::··:· ·························

: ::::::::: 103
105
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::
rFpc'rel!.~~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::: : ::::::::::::
····················-·································-·······---· 290

Distin guishe d Guests
....... ..... ...... 63
Addressed Grand Lodge ......... .. . .... . . ... ....... .. .. . .. .. .. .. .....
············ 62
············
······
·······
········
...........
............
............
............
Dist:f~~t~~~cim~~~:e
.......................................... 9
Appoi ntmen t ................................... ........................
..
170
Repor t of ........................................................................ ........................
Dues
..
........
.
.
.
.... .. ....
106
Amend ments to By-La ws..... ...
.... .
478
Tabula tion by Lodges........ ....... . .. ... . ............
ws
By-La
Dues Change, Effective Da te Amend ment
..... .
42
r;a!11 paste r's Decisio n .................................. ..... ......... .........
......... . 290
............
............
............
............
............
............
............
Dues R! 1.!fs;i61:is............
ary's Comm ents ............................................. ............ .............. ... 101
~rand S~cret
102
oss of evenue........................ .....
Dues, S uspens ion for Non-P aymen t
Grand Secret ary's Comme nts....... .
. ... . .......... ........... ...... . .. 100, 101

E

............ ........................ . 61
Edict, Chai_n Letter s..................................... ........................
18 A. L. 5850........ 500
April
,
tion
za
Organi
Since
Lodge
Grand
~
Officer
d
~}ec~~

E1f~~~te k~!~~ec~iii~it;·i:i:ii·~r;·t;;;"P,:iiiii..i"i~;;· ·· ..·········--·· ----··--···· ········· ····-- --····--·
0

337

:::: 2~~
6~~;;;~~.~~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Er~:
EmJ~;
179
..........
............
............
............
............
............
............
Eme rgent Resolu tions ............
92, 250

.. ... .......... .......
~iefdof Obligatit;in for Masonic Trial.......................
........................................ 93, 325

.....................
en mer:J lecho n 174 C.M.C.....
E d
rust Funds Audit. ........ . ... . ...............
an
ndowmentt Board
E n owmen
Grand Master's Comm ents.... ... ..................
. .. . . . ......... ... ....
Compo sition of Board..............

371

33
429

······································· .............................. 13 7
Ente~~~~e~~ &;;;;ve--Audit:·········
............ .................................... ............................... 396

527

............ .................................... ....... ~:~
Ha~ey, P .G.M ........................
Eulo~=~low, Chester r Melvin
............................................. 269
, P.G.M............
Warre n, Arthu

.i";;··· ·········· 76
Exp~~ft~~!n~g;e F~~-a·5··1 c;· cha-~te;'Ci~apte;·0 f"6~a·e~- ·0f' rieMoi:
···················· 311

Resolu tion Presen ted ........................ ..............................···-·········
··········· ················· ·········-··········· ········· ·
Legisla tion ··· -························--·· ············
Extend Sta tewide Territorial Jurisd iction to All Lodges.................
78
316
..
ResC?luti~m Presen ted ............ ............ ... ........ ... ............
495
'
....
..
..........
............
..
..
............
.......
.
Leg1sla t10n
.................. ...... .
Extinc t Lodges , Incl~d;~·g- · «::«:insoiidatio ns... .........................

::····::::::315.

F

w s ... ..... ...... ....... · ... ..... .. ............ . .... ....... ...... 1()3. !~~
Fees~e~~~:~~s t o By-La
' 109
s.............. ··....... ............ .................. ........................

Tabula ted by Lodge
....... .... .... .. .. ....... ............. ........ ... 27
F ifty Year But~ on s Presen ted ....... .. ... ......... ..........
....................... . 3
Financ e Comm ittee, Report of.. ....... .:..................... ........................
g
Meetm
ted
Sta
Each
on
n~ati
Prese
Flag
65
........................................ 326
Resolution Presen ted ................................................
...... ....... ... 377
...........
...
.......
..........
........
............
··
..
........
..
............
ion
t
Legisla
........... ......... .
Flint Trust Fund Audit.. ................... ........ ........... .................. ............
206
Foreig n Grand Lodges
,.... .. ······ .... ..... ..... .............. ........ 510
Repor t of Co~mittee ... :-- -- :--· . ...... ... .........
.
........
............
List of Recogn ized J unsd1ct1ons ................................... .... ......

·.·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
............
nted............
!0tifJ'~~
ForR~
. .. ............._._·.·.·.·.·.·.
... ............
ationa¥~:se
Legisl
io

Fra nk S. Land Lodge U.D.
....... ....... ....... ........... ............. .......... 4
Dispen sated ............................
...... .. ... . ..... · ........ .... · ..... ....... 51, l g
..
.....
.
..
....
......
Inst ituted .... ... ..... ... ...
........................... 98, 3 7
Pe r Capita Tax Exe mption .............. ....... .. ......... ............
....... ............ .......... 213
...........
.....
...........
...
...
rters
Cha
R eport of Comm ittee on

:: : ·: :· : :: : : : : : : : : :::::::::::::: 2~~
:::·::::::
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
::
:
:
:
:~::::::
~
~~~~:
e~~-~
~fb~f£
Fun~
Fu nctiona l Amend ments C.M.C .
0 963)

92

~!~f~!!iW~~ p~~~~~~-::::: ::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::324: 325
G

.................... 336
Gavels (See Calling Up Proced ures)................................................

::.:: :::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::: i~
~·N~-ti~-nai ·M~-~~~i~i;-ihe .......
8:~~~!\#is~I~~n ·M~~~
.. ........ ..................... 10
............
..........
e........
Servic
onal

Grand Chapla in, Devoti
123
Grand Lectur er
····....... ···........... ........ ··...... ····...... ·.. ....................... 123
Report of ........ ......... ..··.... ··
.................................
Divisio nal Confer ences . ... ............ ......... ... ...... ... ..... .... ............
...................... 124
Candid ates Coachi ng P rogra m ............ ........................

g~:g~ t~~~s'ife~;ese~~Ci:::::::--: :::::::::::: ::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
3

Gra nd Maste r (See Heald, Elmer W.)
........................ 215
Grand Oratio n ............................................................ ........................
.................. 98
............
............
............
............
............
of........
t
Grand Secret ary, Repor
................ 94
............
............
............
Grand Treasu rer, Repor t of........ ........................
818
No.
Great Ligh ts Lodge
103

~~~ i~~
: :: : : : :......: : :245,
: : : : ::............
: : : : : : :............
: : : :: : :............
: : : : : :............
: : : : ............
: : : : : :ittee
: : :: : of: :::Comm
~~~~:
~i!\~
Report
nces,
Grieva

250

528

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

H

Heald, Elmer W., Grand Master
Photograph ..................... ........................................................... .......... Frontispiece
Biography .... .................. ........ ... ..... ... ......................................... ........ ........... .......
1
Appointments for Communication................................................................ 9
Appointment of Grand Treasurer.................................................................. 24
Appointment Committee on Retirement Plan............................................ 24
Decisions ........ ..... .... ...... ...... .. ... ..... ............. .......................... ..... .... ............. ...... .. 35
Edict (Ch ain Le tters).................... ............................. ................................ ....... 61
Lodges Constituted .......................................................................................... 50
Message .............................................................................................................. 17
Proclamations ... ................ ................................................. .......... ...................... 56
Receptions and Miscellaneous..... ............. ................. ....... ............ ....... .. ..... 51
Recommendatio ns ............... ......... ............................... ............................... .. 29, 32
Special Ceremonies ..................................................... ..................................... 51
· Special Communication s .............................. .................................................. 50
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions ............................. ............................... 21, 55
H omes Statistics
Operatin g R evenue and Expen se............. .......................... ... .......... ....... 368, 397
Reside nts Listed ........................................................................................ 406, 415
Honor Roll (Endowment Fund) ............................................................ ................. 151

I

Include Mailing of Grand Master's Decisions
Resolution Presented ............................. ......................................................... 64
Legislation ................................................. ................. .................. .............. 296, 298
I nspectors, List of....... .. ... .... .............. .......... .................... .................. .. ................. .... 507
Installation of Officers ............................................................................................. 339
Institution of Lodges................. ......... ......... ................... .................................. 5 1, 103
Insurance, Report of Committee........ .................................................... .......... ...... 286
Investment Committee, Report of ................... ......... ......... ..................................... 189

J

Job's Daughters. International Order of
Grand Master's Comments....... ...................... ............................ ......... ........... 25
Re solution Presented ........... .............................. ............................. ............ ...... 89
Legislation ............................ ....... ............. ................. ..................... ............ 322, 323
Jurisdictions Visited .......................... ...... ......................................................20, 55
Jurisprudence, Report of Committee on......................................................290, 295

K

King Solomon's Temple....................................................................................228, 230

L

Legislation Proposed
Section 137 (Form of r equest t o perform cerem onies)
Amendment Proposed ............................. ........................ ....................... 92
Legislation ................................................ ........................ .................. 324, 325
Section 150 (Duties of Grand Secretary)
Ame ndment Proposed ............................. ......... .................. ........ ........... 64
Legislation ................................ .......................................................... 296, 298
Section 174 (Expenses of members)
Amendment Proposed..................................................................... ......... 93
Legislation ....................................................................... ........................... 325
Section 199 (Committee on Lodge Financin g)
Grand Master's Decisions Nos. 1, 11.. .............................................. 35, 41
Legislation .... ..................................... ................... ........... ......... .. .......290, 291
Section 284 (Contributions for Masonic Homes)
Amendment Proposed.............................................................................. 65
Legislation ...................... ......... ............ ......... ......... . ... .
298
Section 329 (Decoration of altar)
Amendment Proposed.............................................................................. 65
.: Legislation .................................................................................................. 326

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

529

Section 331 (Statewide public schools welfare)

t~r~~ti;:t :~~~~-~~~ ::::::·.:::::::·:::::::::::::::·.:::·.::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::: :::::::299;

..
3gg
Section 333 (Commercial ventures)
Amendment Proposed ····························· ····· ····························92;··3i~: 3~~
Legislation ·····························:······:···················· ··························
Section 334 (Advertising - pubhcat10ns)
8 69
Am~nd~ent Proposed ···················································· ···· ·········2···3g2• 305
Legislation ................................................... ................... ..............
9 •
•
Section 341 (Uniform Code of By-Laws)
71
t:r~~ti;;t --~~~~-~~~~...
308
Section 408 (No expenditure for or use of liquors)
73 75
Am~nd~ent P r oposed ····························· ································3(i3···310'
311
Legislation ··············:··:······--··-- ······--· ················ ··· ······················· · '
' 39
Gra!ld :r.:taster's Dec1s1on No. 7......................... ·····························:·2!fo. 291
Legislation .......................................................... .............................. · •

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::fa1:

Sect~~a;~ ~~~~e0/.sf~~~~ion No. 13.............................................................. iii

Legislation ································:···················· ·· ····· ·························· ······· ··· 2
Section 411 (Discretionary expenditures)
76
~;~~ti;~t-~~~~~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::·.:::::::::::::::: 311
Section 412 (Social purposes)
76
t~Ts~~tioe:t.:~~~~-~~~--::::::::::::··::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::·:::--:::::::::::::::::::: :·:: 311
Section 439 (Exam ination)
77
t~r~~~;~t -~~~:.~-~~~..::::::::::·:·:.:::::::·.:·.:·.::::::::·.:·:::::::·:·.:::::::::::::::::: ...::3fa 313
Section 447 (Methods of dimitting)
90
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 291
Legislation ......................... ............ .......... ····· · ····· ·········· · ··· ··· ········· ···
Section 512 (Sound discretion required)
Amendment Proposed ..... ..................... .... . .. .. ....... ··· ············· · ··......... 77
··· ······ .... ............ 314, 315
Legislation ............ ..............._. ................. .......

Sect~~~;1~~~~l
~rc~;~~~d~-~~~.~~~~-~.~!...... ... . .::·:·: ..::.:·· ·:::·::·.::::::::: 315; 3i~
Legislation ..................... :....................

··········
Section 518 (Concurrent jurisdiction)
79
Amendment Proposed .......................................................... ..............78' 316
Legislation ........................................... .............. ....····································
Section 519 (Lodge in a college town)
7a
Amendment Proposed ································································.·······315· 316
Legislation ..........................................................
................................ •
Section 522 (Residence within ten miles of Lodge room)
·
· 78
Amendment Proposed .......................................................................315· 316
Legislation ........................................................................................... •
Section 524 (Waiver of jurisdiction)
·
78
Amendment Proposed ·······································································315· 316
Legislation .......................................................................................... •
Sect ion 526 (Contents of application)
Committee on Grievances ........................................................................ 249
249
Legislation .......................................................... ... ·········· ...........................
Section 527 (Form of application for degrees)
78 80 91
Am~nd~ent Proposed ·····················································292'··315' 315' 317
Legislation ........................................................................ •
•
•
Section 552 (F ees for degrees)
72
Amendment Proposed ·······································································ao7" 308
Le gislation ············································································-············ ,

Sect~~~~~~~a~roposed ........................................................................~~· ~~
3
Legislation ···················-······························································--······· •

530

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Section 573 (Life membership)
Amendment Proposed . .. ........................................................................ 90
Legislation ....................................... .................................. ......................... 291
Section 731 (Use of foreign record of conviction)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 82
Legislation ... ........ ...... ... ........ .. . ....... ............................. .. .......... .......... 318
Section 734 (Where no election is filed)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 83
Legislation ................... . .
.............................................
319
Amendment Section 174 C.M.C.
Emergent Resolution Presented... . .. .. . ... .. ..... .......... .......
93
Legislation .................. ..................... . .. ............................................... 325
Application - Adoption of Surname
Rep_ort ~f Committee on Grievances..
. .. .. . .... . .
249
Legislation ............................. ....................... ............................................ 249
Application for Degrees
Felony Conviction

£~;~1afrl:;~~. .~. ~~~'..~~.~-~.. :::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~g

Juvenile Offense
Grand Master's Decisions ..........................................................43, 45
Legislation .......................................................................................... 290
Application Form - Printing

~;~?af!~~~'..~.-~~~~.~~ . :·::··::::::::::: ::::::·:: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::: 2~

Authorize Grand Master to Appoint Special Committee to Study
Section 408 C.M.C. and Recommends Against Ratification of
Grand Master's Decision No. 7

~!~i~~t~i~n ~~~·s·e~~.e~...
Authorize Grand Master to Appoint Special Committee to Study
Section 408 C.M.C. and Recommends Against Ratification of
G rand Master's Decision No. 7 and Rescind all Laws, Rules,
Edicts, Regulations and Decisions on the Subject Having the
Force of Law
Resolution Presented ................ .................... .... ... ...... .... ..............
75
Legislation ..................... .. .... .. .. ..... .............................. . ... .. ... .. 310, 311
Changing Name of Bay Claire Vista Lodge No. 799, F. & A . M.
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 89
Legislation .................................................................................................. 323
Clarify Trial P rocedure When Foreign Grand Jurisdiction is Involved
Resolutioqs Presented ..... ................................................................. 82, 83
Legislation ..........................................................................................318, 319
Committee to Investigate Masonic Center at Proposed California
World's Fair 1967-68 - Long Beach
Resolution Presented .. ............................................................................ 84
Legislation .................................................................................................. 293
Concurrent Jurisdiction and Publication
Resolution Presented ....................................... ....................................... 79
Legislation ....................................... ....................................... .................... 316
Dedication Ceremony - Altar
Grand Master's Decision ....................................... ................................... 35
Legislation ....................................... ........................................................... 290
Directional Sign - "Masonic Temple"
Grand Master's Decision .......................................................................... 44
Legislation .............................................................................. .................... 290
Dues Change, Effective Date Amendment By-Laws
Grand Master's Decision............................................................. ............. 42
Legislation .................................................................................................. 290
Eliminate Homes Contributions by Affiliates

······::::::::::::::::::::::·:::··:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::foa: 3rn

r.:~f1fatlfu~ ~~e-~~~t~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

531

.
Lod e Funds to Charter Chapter of Order of DeMolay
Expenditure
pg
t d
.......................................... 76
Resoluti_on resen e ............................... :::::........................... ............... 311

Exte1:cf~f::~?:ide.Territ·~·i-i.~i'j~-i-i'5d:icii.oi;.to all Lodge~...........................

78
Resolution Presented
.... ....... ...... ........ ............... ....
....... ... 315 316
Legislation .... ······· ........ ................:···.. ·· .....................................
'
Flag Presentation Each Stated Meetmg
............................. 65
Resolution Presented ................................................: ............................. 326
Legislation ...................... ·
····- ····· ····················

FoR~!J-JtY~~a~~~se
nted .................................................:·::::::::::::::::::::::::·:: 2~~
Legislation

...................... .. ..... · .......... · .... ·...... ·...... .. ..
Functional Amendment C.M.C.
90
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 291
Legislation .............................................................................. ..................
Functional Amendments C.M.C. (1963)
................ 92
Resolution Presented ........... ......... .............. .. ........................
324 325
Legislation ....... ...... ........................... :..:....... .... .... ......... ........ .............
'
Include Mailing of Grand Master's DeclSlons
................ 64
Resolution Presented .................... ... ................ ... ::::::::........ ....... 296, 298
Legislation ............................... ........:...................... ...
Limit Promise in Question 15 t o Proficiency
................................... 80
Resolution Presented ...........................................
................. 317
Legislation ....................................... ........................................ ..
Liquor
.
Leasing of Masonic Tem1,>les
.............. ..41, 45
Grand Master's Decisions............................................ .. ........290 291
Legislation ..........................................................................
'
Masonic Groups
. .
39
Grand Master's Decmon ..................................................... -·-290· 291
Legislation .................................................................................. •

Mas0;;n~eMal;t~r's Decision. ................................................................. 2~g

Legisl ation ............................ ... · · · .... ................. ........................... ..
Sciots Meeting, Legion H~l.l
42
Grand Master's Decision.. . · .......... ....... ... ................... ............. 290
Legislation ......................................................................................... .
Lodge Funds
Care~~~d Master's Decision .................................................................. 2~~
Legislation ............... ............... ....... ... ................. ...... ... ......................

Cos\;:a~~i~~~t~~a1i
Jecision ... ....
::::::::::::::::::.::::::::·::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::: 2~b
Legislation ...........................
.
Mas 0Legislation
;~~~:i!5:~bc:Cisi
on. .. ....::::::::::::'.'....:.::::::::::::..::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~
............................

Movgr;~dj~~:ier's
Decision.................. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~g
Legislation .......................................
. ..

Tro'Cf;and Master's Decision.................................................................. z~ii
Legislation ......................................................................................... .
Lodge Name Chan?e - ~e~olution Necessary .. ....................................... 43
Grand Masters Decision............................... ..
290
Legislation .............................................................................. ................... .
Ma sonic Plaque or Sign with Emblem at Entrance to City
66 67
Resolutions Presented ........................................................................ ' 92
Resolution Withdrawn .....................................................................3()1' 302
Legislation ..........................................................................................
•

Mile~~;i~~;i~esented (Emergent) ........................................................ 3~
Legislation .............................................................................. ................... .

532

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

Physical Qualification s
fes4?lf ti.on Presented .... ..... ............ .....................................................

Propo~~~s t!~sio~·=·wici"Ci~-Former .Gra;;ct·s-~"c::-~etacy······················-

77

314• 315

85
L es4? h _o n Withdrawn ..... ................ ........................................................ 92
Provi3:1~;~~ttee.on·:P-~biicinromai'iCin.................... .......................319• 321
~eso~ut~ons P;esented ....................... .................................................84,

f

~:~f;fatfi~~ ~~e-~~~-~~~

2~~

... ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::····
ProVIde f~r Spec1a_l Committee to Review Report of Commission ....
on Masonic Practices and Suggest Appropriate Legislation to
Implement Recommend ations
~es4?lf tf.on Presented ............. .................. ...... ............ .... ......................... 87

Pubu~~h~~fsnweek·c·Ci~~tiee·:::.:::r1e.iini'ii.on.o! il.e.sP'Cin5ii;'ili1.Y.....

293 294
•
~esi:ilf t;~n Presented ................. ............................................................. 66
Publis~~a~~~ oi:iffe"c::ted..Candldate~· -···· · ··· .................................... ....... 299, 300

f:~~~f\f.~~sJrn~~~~~~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Reliefeftsobii~~tio~--£or.Masoni~- Trial' ·· ·· ..... ........... .. ........................ .....3 o2• 3 o5
Presented ..... ......................... .......................2." "· 92
Emergent Resolution
................................
Legislation
....................... .......... ....................... 5 0' 25 1
Request for Dimit Withdrawn
37
r:a!11 ¥aster's Decision.... . ..................... ......... ............................. ... 290
g1s a t10n .. .. ..... ... . ... .. .. .. .... .
...
Require Insp_ec t<?ral Approval for ..a..Maso~ ..to ..iioi<i.. oifi~e--i.Ii ..a ....
Youth Orga nization Based on Masonic Membership
~es4?lf~·on Presented .............................................................................. 86
Resea;~s t~og~s :::.·;;Pa~t-Maste~;······· ..···-..............................................321, 322
r:a?faf.1ast er's Decision.......................................................................... 40
Sailinlship wn Re~-o~ai'of'Mod.e1 ........................................................ .......... 2 90
46
rra!'lt raster's Decision..................... ...... .......................................... ... 291
egis a ion ................................
Secretary - Appointmen t for Une~pired . Te~........................ ................. .

~=~1am,~t~~-"~-· ~-~~iSi-~~::::::::·:··--·--· · "·-................................ ..................

40

Solicitation of Ce rtai n Advertising ...................... .. ....................................... WO
~es4?lf~?n Presented .............................................................................. 69
Solicifa1~~~ ~1~u~·a:5:=·_p-~i-~aie..c~~pa.n.Y............................................. 305, 307
rr~nt paster's Decision............................................................. ............. 3 5
spec~1 ~o~~~tiee-·-o~..iob··~·:oa·ugh·t;;;;s·-a·r;~i'Iia.inbo·~-c;~15··----- ............... 290
Presented
Resolution
Legisla tion ............... .... :::::...... .................... ....... ............................... ......... 89
322
Split Letter in Lieu of Oral Exa~lnatic:>n. . ......... ......... ....................... • 323
f!;i;fayon Presented .............................................................................. 77
312, 313
Varied Initi~ti~n
..71 , 72
f:gsi~fa~ions Presented ......................................................................307
30°0
........................
af o . ................................................................. '
Let Freedom Rinon Procla
m i n.......................................................................... 59
Library and Muse~~
. ;Report _of ;Board of Library Commissione rs... ........ ..................................... 225
Limit Promise m Question 15 to Proficiency
f;:~f1faYi~1:i Presented ...................................................................................... 80
.......................................................................................................... 317
Liquor

Fee . . ...................... . ..................... . ..........................

Leasing of Masonic Temples
Grand Master's Decisions..................................................................41, 45

533

Legislation ......................................................................................... .290, 291
Masonic Groups
Grand Master's Decision.....................................................................- ... 39
Legislation ....................... ..................................................................:290, 291
.
.
Masonic Temples
Grand Master's Decision....................... ................................................... 36
Legislation .................................. .............. ...... .... ... ..................................... 290
.
Sciots Meeting, Legion Hall
Grand Maste r's Decision........ ........ ................. ......... ... ............................. 42
Legislation ................................... ........ ....... ... ............................................. 290
List of Constituent Lodges .......................................... ........................ ....... ............. 478
Lodge Financing, Report of Committee on...................._.................................... 196
Lodge Funds
Caretaker
Grand Master's Decision.......................................................................... 38
Legislation ................................ .................................................................. 290
Cost of Officers' Meals
Grand Master's Decision........... . .. ........................................................... 37
Legislation ........................... .................. .... ............. ... ................................. 290
Masonic Sunrise Service
Grand Master's Decision.......................................................................... 46
Legislation -············--·······............................................................c.....-.,.-··· 290
Movie Projector
Grand Master's Decision.......................................................................... 39
Legislation .............................................. .................................................... 290
Trowel
Grand Master's Decision........ .................................................................. 42
Legislation ......................................................... ......................................... 290
.
Lodge Name Change - Resolution Necessary
Grand Master's Decision.................... ............................................................. 43
Legislation ............................................................................................. ............. 290
Lodges
Alphabetical List ............................ .................................................................. 515
Anniversarie s ...................... .. ..... ..... ............. .... ........... ..................... ................. 54·
Charters Authorized .............................................. .............................- ······-··· 214
Constituted .............................................. .......................................................... 50
Institutep ........................... ....... ....... .......... ........ .................................. .............. 51
Numerical List ......................................... .......... ............................................... 478
Los Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles)
Luckenbach Fund Audit.. ............................................. ........................................ 373

M

Manhattan Lodge No. 817, Chartered.................................................................. 214
Mar Vista Lodge U.D.

p;;fif~:Je~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::51;·· 1~:

Masonic Clubhouses
Grand Master's Comments....................... ..... ..... ........................................... 32
Berkeley, Report of Trustees.............................................. ......................... 254
Los Angeles, Report of Trustees........... ... ........... .......... ......... ...... .. . .......... 257
431
Trustees Listed ................................................ ... ..... ......... ...............
Masonic Education, Special Committee on
Grand Master's Comment................................. ............................................ 30
Report of Committee....................... ...... .................. .... ...... .. .................. ......... 260
Masonic Hornes
Grand Master's Comments ......................................................................'........ 33
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Balances ........................................ 367
Audit ........................................................................................... ........................ : 365
List of Trustees................ ......... .......................... . .. ...... .. .. ........ ........ .... ............. 430

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~~
~~~~P~}aE~~r;~ei1i..i3.oa;ct:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::........................
............... 135

Report of Superintend ent, Covina ........................
Report of Superintend ent, Union City ......................................................... 132
Report of Trustees.............................. ............................. ............ ....................... 126
Trustees Reappointed ................................................................................... ,.. 338

534

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Pay of Members

Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund

~~~~~~~~::~i ::ci;~~d:: ~~~~~:: .:::::::.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::~~~: ~H
Contributions Through Lodges ....... .... ..... .................................... 138, 145, 151

Honor R oll ................................. ........... ....... .. .......... ........................................... 151
Members and Officers, 1964-65..................................... .......... .............. ......... 429
Memorials ............ ...... .... .................... .................................................... ...... 145, 14.7
P roclamation of Grand Master... ........................................................... ........ 57

¥!~~ ~i ~~%i·e·r5:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Masonic Information, Report of Committee on.................................................. 242
Masonic Plaque or Sign with Emblem at Entrance to City
Resolutions Presented ................................................................................88, 67

Mas~;~~~:~~. :~::::e:: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : :::~~~'. ~g~

Meeting Place
E~an9~ Listed ~l Grand Secretary ... .... ....................... ..................... .... 107
1ste y Comm1 ee on By-Laws ............ ............. ..... .................................... 185
Members' Contributions by Lodges...................................................................... 478
Membership

;~;. m

~;~~~~t~~f~~~~~°:':'

Memorial Temflle (See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
Me rit Roll (Ca ifornia Masonic Memorial Temple) ................. ......................... 165
Message of Grand Master.......... ....... .. .......... .. ...................................... ................... 17
Mileage Payments
Resolution Presented (Emergent).................................................................. 93

~!~~r!:~:~i~~;~~~~:: : :::::::::::: ::: : :.:::: : : : : : ::::::::: ::: . : : : . ::: :::::.-·: : : ::::::::::: !H

Mount Baldy Lodge No. 815, Chartered ............................................................... 214

N
Necrology, Report of Committee............................................................................ 268
New Lodges
Charters Authorized .......................................................... .............................. 214

pJ;lr;~~j~~-~~::::::::::: : ::: : : : : ::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : :: :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::::~i; ~g~
0

Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of for 1964-65..... .................................................... ..................... 337
Attendance from other Jurisdictions............................................................ 62
Election of .................................................................. ......... .......... ..................... 337

::!

1~~~~:~~:: : : : ::·:: ...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.·.:··::::::::::::::::
~
~r~~!~d:~t:~~~E~
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles, Report of Committee on.............................. 260
6

535

Old West Lodge No. 813, Constituted................................................................ .... 50
7
Opening of 115th Annual Communication..................... ....................................
Oration by Grand Orator....................................................................................... . 215

p
Past Grand Masters
List Since Organization .............. .................................. ................................... 500
8
Present at Communication .................................................................. ............
Visitors at Communication..........................................................................62, 63
Past Masters-Necrology Report....................... ........................................ ... 268, 273

~~£~r!ti~;~r;;~~~~i~::::::::::.:::::::·::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

478
Per Capita
Payment by L odges ........... ........... ........................................... ........................ ..
335
...
Rate for Fiscal Year Ending June, 1965 ... ... .............. ...............................
Perine Endowment Fund Audit... ...................... .................................................... 375
Permanent Endowment Fund..... ................... .......................................................... 372
Permit Senior Deacon or Chaplain to Deliver
Preamble in Degree Work
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 88
Withdrawn .................................................................................................. 92
Physical Qualifications
Resolution Presented ................................. ............ ............ ............................... 77
Legislation ...... ................... ............................................... ...................... ...... 314, 315
Plaza De Los Angeles Lodge No. 814, Cons tituted.. ............. .......... ..................... 50
Policy and General Purposes, Report of Committee on .............................. 292, 295
Proclamations
Constitution Observance .................................................................................. 60
DeMolay ............................................... .... .......... ......... ........................................ 56
Let Freedom Ring.................................. .... .. ...... ....................... ......................... 59
Masonic Homes Endowment Month... ............ ................................... ............ 57
Public Schools Week.......................................................................................... 58
Proposed Pension- Widow Former Grand Secretary
Resolutions Presented ................................................................................84, 85
Resolution Withdrawn .. ................... ........... . .. ...................... ..... ................. 92
Legislation ...... ........ ......... .. .......... ........... .............................................. ........319, 321
Provide Committee on Public Information
Resolution P resented........................................................................................ 87
Legislation ............... ............ ................................... ....................................... ... .. 294
Provide for Special Committee to Review Report. of Comi:niss~on
on Masonic Practices and Suggest Appropriate Leg1slat1on
to Implement Recommendations
Resolution Presented ................................................................................ 87
Legislation .......................................................... ..................................293, 294
Public Sch ools
Dedications ...................................... ........ ................ ............................................ 51
Grand Master's Comments......................................... ......... ............ ................ 27
Proclamation by Grand Master.. ............... ... .. ........ ....... ...................... ..... 58
Report of Committee ............................ .............. ......... .. ............................. ........ 181
Public Schools Week Committee-Defi nition of Responsibility
Resolution Presented ..... ........ ..... ..... ..... .... .. ... . ........................ ........ ......... . 66
Legislation ...................... ........................ .... ........................................ ... ......299, 300
Publish Names of Elected Candidates
Resolutions Presented ...................................................................................... 68
Resolution Withdrawn .................................................................................... 92
Legislation ....................................................................................................302, 305

R
Rainbow for Girls, International Order o:f
Grand Master's Comments........................ ....... .. .... ................................. .... 25
Resolution Presented .. .... ................. ............................... ....................... ....... . 89
Legislation .................................... .................. ........................................ ..... 322, 323
Receptions and Breakfasts Reported...................... ..................... ......................... 51
Recognition of F oreign Grand Lodges
Report of Committee. ........ ......... .. .............. .... ..... ......... ......... .. .... .............. ..... 206
Recognized Jurisdictions ................ ......... ..................................................... 510
Recommendations of Grand Master
California Freemason .................. ....... ......... ......... ...................... ............... 31, 295
Constitution Observance, Committee on ................................................29, 292
Regist ration and Mileage Payments................. ....... ................................. ......... .... 432
Relief of Obligation for Masonic Trial
Emergent Resolution Presented...................................................................... 92
Legislation .. .......................................................... ........................................250, 251

536

Remission of Dues (See Dues Remission)
Reports of Committees
Board of Control...... . .................... ............................ ..................... ...... ...
177
By-Laws .............................................................................................................. 183
Cemeteries .......................................................................................................... 209

11i~!~i« : :i: : : ; : ~:;: : i![il[!l iii!![i[]i

Distribution -··················································-··················· .................... - ........... 170
Finance ....... ................ ................................ ............................ .. ........ ................... 327
George Washington National Memorial.. .......................... ........................... 173

~~~~;~~~~:: : :: : :

~~f~~J~~o~~~:tilaii:::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Residents
C · at
a Homes

u~i~~ ci·i:;;··:::::::::::::::::~::

.................................. 415

....... ......... ·· ..... ........ ................ .
.....
:................................................................................ 406

Resolutions (Also See Legislation)

.....................................92, 93

Ritual
Committee on
G~and Master's Comments ·· ······· ... ..... ..

30
··············· ···· ························ 326

~~rE~:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::~::::~=~-: ~~

Ro11Rci'1r~---~~...:.~.~~-~~~~~::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1• 8

s
Sailing Ship-Removal o~ ~odel
......... ............ 46
Grand Master's Decision ........... ··········· ···· ··· ·············· ···· ··· ·
291
Legislation ...................................................... ......... ......... · ·····························

:;·':·::;.m

Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley .......... ............................. . .... ............................................ ............ 254

Mas~~~ ~~~~~io;;,··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~6

Masonic Homes Endowment Board.... .......... ........ .......... ............ .................... 137
Masonic Homes Trustees......... ............. ...................... ... ............. ........ .... ...
126

w:EEx~r~~~~:_i~~i~~~::::::::::::::::::· ::: ::::::::::::_::::: ::::·: ::::::::: : : ::::::: :-:::.·::: u~
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles ....... ............................................................. 260
Pay of Members .................................. .. .................................... ................... ...... 253
Policy and General Purposes ............................ ............................... ......... 292, 295
Public Schools ....................................................... ........ ....................... ......... ..... 181
Recognition of F oreign Grand Lodges .......................................................... 206

~;~~~;~·~···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Special Commission on Masonic Practices............ .. ... .. .. .. ............. ........... 171
Taxation .................. .................... ..................... ..... ..... ..... ..... ............... ............... 265
Reports of Officers
Grand Chaplain-Devotiona l Service.____ ..................................................... 10
Grand Lecturer .............................................................................. .................... 123

Santa Ana Masonic Temple Association
23
Gran~ Master's C?mments............. ........ ········· ······::: :.:::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 378
Scholarship Fund Audit.. .................. ··:·················· ·· ···
Secretary-Appointment_f?r Unexprred Term
40
r!:Ps1affo~t~-~-~ --~~~'.~'.~~::::::::::::·.:::·:·. :::::::::::::.:.::·:·.:·.:::::·.::::::::: ..::·.::·. ::::·.::::::::·::: 290
Sessions of Communication
7

~g~~:~ !1~~~:;a~n:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l ~~

Tuesday MoI'Illng ·······················································

215

Thursday Evening ···-·····--···········-················ ······················--····

336

E~g~~!f~£~::::· :.::·: =.::·:=.·=. :::::::::::.~::=.::::t\.\\·t.=:::~i.2 ill

~~~;~ ~fe~~cfon··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 339

Soj ob:a~J M~ster's Comments................................... ...... ······ ····················-········ J~
Report of Com~ittee on ..._. .._. .. ............. ····························································
Solicitation of Certam Adverhsmg

69

~=~?~fattf:n ~~-~.~~~-~~~..::::::::::::::::::::::.:.::::::.:::::·.:·.::::::::::::::::·.:·:·.:::::::::::::::::::::fo5; 307

Solicitation of Funds-Px:i':ate Company
35
Grand Master 's Dec1s1on ........... ················································ ··········· ············ 290

2

sped'!r~1;~~~dix··:::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::·:::::::::::::::::: :::::::: ::::::::: 3

94

Special Commission on Masonic P ractices

8~E~
~Ii!~[~:: : ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: li
Grand Treasurer ................. .... . ................... ... ......... .......... .. ............ ....... ......... ...

Representatives of Lodges

537

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

~~~~~~ao~c~n~~~~~~e:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Request for Dimit Withdrawn

. r!:~?aifo~~-~~-~.. ~~~~~-~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.::::::::::::: 2~~

Require Inspectox:aI ~pproval for a Maso~ to Hold Office in a
Youth Orgamzahon Based on Masonic Membership

~;y;~W~':i ~~-~-~~~-~~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::fac 3~~

Research Lodges

rfs~~g ~~-~~~-'-~--~~~~~-~::::·.:::::::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-.-.-.:::::::-.494: sig

Research Lodges-"Past Master"

r!:isfaifo~t~~-'-~--~~~~-~~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::····::::·· 2i~

Reserve for Additions and Replacements-Audi t....................................::::.... :: 392

Special Ceremonies Reported.:··········· ........... ... ·························· .......... .................. .

gl

18

~!~~t ~~~;;·~i~~~n~-~-~~::::: ::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::: . ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::: 171

Special Committee on Committee Structu:e
31
Grand Master's Co_mments and Appomtments.......... ·························239· 295
Reports of Committees..................................:···············:·············"············ •
Special Committee on Job's Daughters and Rainbow Gl.I'ls
89

Spec~l~~~~~:~::~:::~~~::·:::::::::·:·:::·:·: :·: : ·:·: :·: : : ·:::::::::·::::::·::::·:·:·: ·:·::::·:: ·:·::::·: :·: ·::::::-..::·~~~~ ~~~

Special Commurucations Reporte_d....._. .... ............................ ... .......... .. ······
Split Letter in Lieu of Oral Examination

77

StJ1~~~;j,;·· · :· ·:· · :· · · · · · · · · · · · · · :·:·.:· · · :· · · · · · ·: · · · · ·: ····· m
Supplemental Appropnations
Auditor's Report ....................................... ......................................................... 360

538

PROCEEDING S OP THE

Finance Committee Report.. .................................................... ........................ 327
Grand Treasurer's Report................................................................................ 94

T
Taxation, Report of Committee on........................................................................ 265
Telegrams, Sent and Received............................................................................ ....
9
Testamentar y Gifts .......................................... ........................................................ 147
Title Page ........................................... ..........................................................
5
Triad Lodge No. 812, Constituted................. .............. .................................
50
Trial Records
Reported by Grand Secretary. .... ........ ............... .......... ............................. 107
Grievances Committee Report. ....................... ........... ............. 245, 250, 318, 319
No. 1797 from 1963 ............................. ............................... .. .................... 245, 246
Trustees of Masonic Homes
Annual Report .................................................................................................... 126
Reappointed ....................... ................................................................................. 338
Listed ........... ........ ........... .................... .................. .................. ... ................... ........ 430
Trust Funds Audit. ........................ ............................................... ..... ......................... 371

u
Unappropria ted R eserve Audit. ............................................................................ 395
Unfinished Business for 1965
Concurrent Jurisdiction and Publication................... . .... . ...............79, 316
Grand Master's Recommend ation Committee on
Constitution Observance .................................................................... 29, 292
Masonic Plaque or Sign with Emblem at
Entrance to City......................................................... ........................... 66, 301
Publish Names of Elected Candidates ............................................... .......68, 302
Report by Committee- Study of Section 408 ...................................... 308, 311
Special Committee on Committee Structure ...... ......................... 31, 295, 296
Unfinished Business from 1963
Grand Secretar y's Comments........ ........................ ........................ ................. 98
F orm of Application ....................................................................... ..... 91, 292
Functional Amendment s C .M.C., Section 137a............ ............ ...... 92, 324
Trial Record No. 1797.......................... ................ .............................. 245, 246
Varied Initiation Fee

v

~:~r;ratfi~~ -~~~~~~~~~. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::Ji~: 3i~

Veteran Buttons Presented-5 0 Year Buttons ................... ................................. 109
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions ........................ ........ ................20, 21, 23, 55, 99

w
Wadleigh Fund Audit... .................. ............................ ...... ................... .............. 376

war~:~~?:~~~-ife~~o~gy........................ ........... ...................... ......... .............. 26s

Eulogy for .......... ........................ ..... ............................ ............................... ... ..... 343
Memorial Service .............................................................................................. 342
Photograph ............................................... ........................................................... 341
Warren, Arthur M., P.G.M.
California Masonic Memorial Temple Trustees Comments.................... 164

~~~i i;: -~~--~~~~~~-~-~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· .·: ~~~
1

Funeral Service ........................................................ .......................................... 346
Photograph ...................................................................... ..... ............ ...... .... .... .. ... 345
William B. Ogden Lodge No. 816, Chartered ....... ................... .............................. 214

